Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 
Gift of Florence W. Patrick 






j&a>^G T-/^. A/. (7" 



> 



The Picayune 
Creole Cook Book 



Sixth Edition 



To assist the good housewives of the present 
day and to preserve to future generations the 
many excellent and matchless recipes of the 
New Orleans cuisine by gathering up from the 
old Creole cooks and the old housekeepers the 
best of Creole cookery, with all its delightful 
combinations and possibilities, is 
the object of this book. 




Copyright 1901, 1906, 1910, 1916 and 19^2 by 

THE TIMES-PICAYUNE PUBLISHING COMPANY 

NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



U>i4-Li. 1^ 






The Tiues-Picatune Publishing Coupant 

"PvJblvthef of 

The TiMEa-PicATUKB 

South 'b Greatest Newspaper 

New Orleans, La. 

1922 



The Picayune 
Creole Cook Book 



INTRODUCTION 



THE Picayune Creole Cook Book, of which this (the sixth) Is a re- 
vised and very carefully prepared edition. Is more than a cook book. 
It Is, In fact the record of a school of cookery, the most savory and yet 
the most economical ever devised. In making that dual claim we are not 
speaking Idly and boastingly, but have valid arguments to support both con- 
tentions. 

It long has been recognized throughout the world that the cuisine of France, 
under the later Louis' and the Empire, reached a perfection of refinement due 
not alone to a French genius for that art, but because gastronomy was so 
highly regarded there that It drew the best from all parts of the world. Thus 
we see some of the most typically French "plats" to have had their origin In 
Poland, Italy, Spain and Russia, though undoubtedly refined and improved from 
passing through the hands of the French masters. It was this French school 
of culinary art that supplied the foundation, the general basis for the Creole 
cuisine. 

It must be remembered that many of the French settlers in La Loulslane 
were the aristocratic "dmigr^s," who brought with them the highest refine- 
ment of gastronomic culture, while at the same time there came many peasants 
with their simple though delicious "pot au feu" and "grlllades." But, in the 
evolution of a Creole cuisine, to this double element of French cookery there 
came an infiltration of Spanish "arte de componer las vlandas" because of the 
considerable element of Iberian population that settled In Louisiana during 
the Spanish rule. This added a somewhat broader, stronger seasoning, and a 
further admixture came from our proximity to the pepper-loving tropics. Thus 
we find our Creole cookery departing somewhat from its French origins; but 
there were other and still more important changes that could not fail to 
come because of our isolation and because of the difference in the staple 
culinary materials here and in Europe. 

One of the conspicuous differences of this kind was due to our waters that 
teemed with fish, scale-fish and shell fish, and many varieties of marine food 
that were either unobtainable In France or were there so rare as to have 
become no staple item of the menu. In the wild New World sea food was 
easiest and safest to catch. It might even be captured by the women folks 
while the men were on sterner business, and with such new and delicious 
materials to experiment with, the Inventiveness of the pioneers went to work 
and devised new and delicious combinations of shrimps, crabs and crawfish, 
as well as of the almost limitless varieties of the finny tribes. There were the 
reliable "grognards" — we call them croakers. Both names are due to the 
rebellious utterances of the fish when hooked and landed. There were the 
trouts, white and speckled, so plentiful in Louisiana and Mississippi waters; 
the delicious sbeepshead, with stripes of the broiler ready uivon it as it came 

ill 



from the water; the handsome red fish, marked for ready identification by 
a single black dot beside its tail; and then such aristocrats as the Spanish 
mackerel — a nobleman indeed beside his plebeian relative, the mackerel of 
the Atlantic — and, supreme among fish, the delicious pompano. With those 
and an infinity of oysters at command, it was not to be wondered at that the 
native chefs wrought marvels of tastiness that have been the envy of many 
a European "cordon bleu." 

Many of the cooks, indeed the vast majority of them in Louisiana, were 
negresses who had a share in the development of the Creole cookery. It 
seems as though the colored folk had brought with them from the wilds of 
Africa certain knowledge, or instincts, regarding rare flavoring herbs. It was 
the negroes that went into the woods and brought forth the leaves and roots 
that, wisely prepared, added new half-tastes and quarter-tastes that, like the 
demi-teintes of the painter, add subtle attractiveness to the ensemble. 

Lastly, there were the Indians to whom at least one item of Creole cookery, 
still today fairly indispensable, is due — namely, the ''gombo fil6." Even to 
the present day that condiment, so unlike all otiiers, is gathered and sold by 
the remains of the once powerful Choctaws. 

With all these new elements added, we find ourselves far away from the 
original French cuisine, but that school had the force to enclose the New 
World additions without losing any of its own charms when it became a 
question of cooking the standard foods, the roasts and sauces, the fowl or the 
venison, the vegetable or 4he delicious pastry that has ever been France's by 
some right of race. 

But we mentioned both succulence and economy. The former we have 
explained, but not yet the latter. That feature became a part of Creole cooking 
from pure necessity. The waters and the woods, the barnyards and the 
gardens, be they never so full of food elements, in a land thousands of miles 
from sources of certain essential supplies, the cook had to be watchful as well 
as lavish. Communication even between neighbors was slow and difficult — 
sometimes even dangerous — so that the cooks and housekeepers early learned 
to avoid all waste in their art. Therefore there will be found, from a study 
of this cook book, that means are offered to utilize much that in other and 
more thoughtless styles of cooking is waste. There were many mouths to feed 
on the plantations of olden days and, after long spells of bad weather, many a 
mouth would have gone hungry but for the care with which every morsel was 
put to a good purpose. The pocketbook in such matters is today a good test, 
and to have had that treasure, a thoroughly competent Creole cook of the old 
school, is to have realized the cheapness wRh which she could supply meals 
fit for LucuUus. 

Were we to select one phrase with which to characterize Creole cooking as 
inherited from the French chefs it would be that: "Creoles understand how to 
make tough meat tender." This they accomplished by the process called 
braising, In which there has been perpetuated the surname of a young Gascon 
cook of Louis XIV's time, who had the distinction of winning a silver gridiron in 
a cooking contest instituted by the "Roi Soleille" himself. Braising is a process 
between baking and frying, the covered saucepan preventing the escape of the 
strength and flavor of the meat. So simple and yet so important is this trick 
of the cuisine that without it perhaps French and Creole cookery would not 
have reached their present height. 

But let us quote from the classics of cooking a few Incidents that, though 
they took place in Europe, have affected the cookery of Louisiana, where all 
the items named are in every day use. Take, for example, the baked fish as 
provided on many a Friday in many a Louisiana family. The fish is larded 
with strips of bacon. "Lard," by the way. Is the French term for bacon, so that 
one must not be deceived by a similarity in sound into imagining that lard, as 
Americans know it, Is used. The fish is stuffed with a forcemeat of shrimps, 
oysters and, if possible, with mushrooms. Now this dish, so familiar to all in 
Louisiana, originated in France to celebrate a regal occasion — that on which 



IV 



Marie de Medlcis was married to the Dauphin, son of Francis the First The 
ceremony took place at the Palais de Chambord, that only lately has been 
taken over as a permanent architectural preserve of the French nation. It was 
an Italian cook who prepared the meal, and being dissatisfied with the dryness 
of the fish to be prepared for the bridal party, he had the inspiration of the 
larding and stuffing, and thereby struck a culinary note that was heard round 
the world. 

The brioche, though very familiar in France, is little known in America 
outside of New Orleans, where it has long been a favorite of Creole cookery. 
It was really *"Brioche," and not "cake," as the familiar story has it, that 
Marie Antoinette suggested as alternative to the poor when she was told they 
had no bread. 

Another overseas delicacy that has become fixed in Creole cookery is the 
"baba" — once the "baba au rhum" of fragrant memory. The baba is round and 
taller than it is wide, made of a porous cake that becomes readily saturated 
with wine or, as now made, with a sweetish liquor. This dish was not orig- 
inally French at all, but Polish, and was so loved by King Stanislas of the old 
Kingdom of Poland, that when he paid a visit to France he brought with him 
a supply of "babkas," that being its Polish name, meaning, we are told, "a 
little old woman wrapped in a shawl." This gives an idea of the correct shape 
of the baba, but there has been a tendency in Louisiana to deviate from that 
form, to the regret of all who find charm in the strict observance of old 
customs. 

Southern France has given to Creole cuisine the boulUe-k-baisse, or, as it is 
commonly but not correctly written bouillabaisse, which is a fish stew of an 
especial flavor, quite different from the more familiar court bouillon, which 

features the delicious "k la Creole" sauce that has delighted so many visitors 
to New Orleans. 

In so simple a matter as bread, Creole cooking has strongly marked charac- 
teristics, and not to have eaten the Creole "cap loaf" is to have missed one of 
the world's delights. This is a large round and solid loaf with a knot or twist 
at the top, that is easily separated from the rest of the loaf, and is the tidbit, 
as it were, of the baking — usually the perquisite of the most selfish or most 
humored member of the household. There are other Creole breads, but the 
characteristic of all is crustiness. It is highly nutritious and easily digestible, 
contains an abundance of dextrin and not a little maltose, therefore requiring 
thorough mastication. 

An elderly Creole sybarite once said wisely: "Epicures realize that we 
have nowadays no roasts, only baked meats." This gives a flash of under- 
standing of changed conditions. In former days a turkey hung, turning slowly, 
over a pan which caught the drippings. Ash-wood coals were de rigueur for 
the finest flavor. On long needles, near by, were cooking snipe or other small 
game birds and the cook basted all constantly. Oh, in those old days, living — 
by which we mean eating — in New Orleans was beyond compare, and we might 
digress to tell of the delights of the vintages brought in casks from France 
and Spain to the port of New Orleans. But why speak of such impossibilities? 
Nevertheless, even so noted an epicure as William Makepeace Thackeray, at 
the time of his memorable visit to the Crescent City, was so delighted with 
our wines that he had a shipment sent back across the ocean to his English 
home. 

Much of the cookely we have described was invented at New Orleans, the 
metropolis of the Louisiana colony; but also a large part, as we have sug- 
gested, was the product of the cooks on the vast plantations that were almost 
like self-governing principalities scattered along the lakes, rivers and bayous 
of fair "Louisiane." Therefore there is a real historic • interest in the facts 
concerning the cooking methods of those days and places. In New Orleans 
the historic Cabildo, the place in which the ceremonies of the transfer of the 
French colony to the young United States were held, has been converted into 
an historical museum, and there, among other curiosities, are records of that 



very thing— the plantation kitchen of Creole days. The objectar collected have 
not yet been given the setting they deserve, but In time that too will come 
and the visitor will be able to study in complete form the plant from which 
was developed the Creole cookery as. explained in the present volume. 

Among other treasures there, is a great copper preserving kettle, hand-made, 
with strength in handle and beauty in form and color. After the family that 
had used this utensil for generations had left the plantation and had come to 
New Orleans to live, "Aunt Chloe," who came regularly from the old home to 
visit the newest generation of children, generally put in her spare time polish- 
ing the big kettle till, when it finally went into the hands of the state, it 
seemed to typify the pride of the old methods in the perfection of its tools. 

The plantation kitchen from which that great kettle came may serve as 
an example of the rest. It has been described as follows: "The kitchen of 
the plantation was a large square room and adjoining it was a smaller room 
where the fancy cooking was done. Matilda, the cook of cooks, sat on her 
three-legged stool as she watched the pots cooking in the great fireplace. She 
had been bought at the age of seventeen and placed with a Creole family in 
New Orleans to learn the fine art of cookery, and first of all to make French 
bread. Bread and the flaky beaten biscuit were made upon a huge log brought 
in from the forest and polished smoothly at the top. The biscuits were 
beaten with a stick with prongs like three fingers. Bread was often cooked 
in a Dutch oven which stood on the hearth. It was a large round pot with 
legs, and with a cover that had an upright rim to hold the coals that were kept 
ever fresh upon it when there was long baking to be done, as, for instance, a 
pound cake — a pound cake that was one in fact as well as in name. 

"Rice was cooked in a small round-bottomed pot hanging from a crane. 
When turned out the cereal was browned on the bottom and held its shape. 
Wafers were cooked in long iron-handled irons' and the same was true of the 
waffles. Aunt Matilda broiled on a large broiler that had four feet and a long 
handle. There were grooves in it that held the gravy. This broiler stood 
directly over the coals. 

"On the swinging crane in the fireplace pots were hung and other pots 
stood on independent legs and had covers. Some fireplaces had a straight 
bar in place of the swinging crane. A 'rabbit' was a long, narrow piece of 
metal used for roasting. A home-made broom of latanier (palmetto) stood in 
the comer by the fireplace. 

"Either a brick path or a great tree hewn on the four sides led from the 
kitchen to the house. Along this the little negroes fled with the covered dishes, 
for everything ihust be served piping hot. The dining-room boy would receive 
the platters and place them on tha table." 

The Volstead Act has taken from the cuisine some of its most delightful 
flavorings. French, (and thence its descendant Creole) cookery were both lavish 
and artistic in the employment of sherries, Champagnes and various liqueurs, 
and have suffered from a law that in dealing with a great evil has ruthlessly 
destroyed many minor blessings. In previous editions of the Picayune Creole 
Cook Book directions for the use of wines and liquors were included as a matter 
of course in all recipes demanding such flavorings. As it has now become unlaw- 
ful to acquire such ingredients, reference to them has been eliminated. Since 
necessity is the mother of invention, very serious efforts are being made to find 
substitutes that will add the desirable flavors of the fruit and berry brandies, 
of the much used sherry wine, etc., without violating the anti-alcoholic enact- 
ment. To what extent those substitutions will serve their purpose it is perhaps 
too soon to judge, but we wish only to note here that such flavorings are on 
the market, wearing many of the famous old names, formerly the dependence 
of the chef in producing his gastronomic wonders. We must leave it to the 
judgment of the users of the cook book to decide whether they consider those 
extracts worthy to replace the wines and liquors of other days. 

But we could lose ourselves in details of the cooking and serving of meals 
in those times, now far in the past. Today cooking has taken its place as a 



"VI 



science to be taught in dignified colleges with much talk of calories and 
proteids and other scientific jargon; but there is missed from the new cookery 
a something, a je ne sais quoi, that was: brought together by the old Creole 
cooks. That something, that essence of a wondierful school is what will be 
found recorded in this present volume of recipes that have stood the test of 
time and changing fancy, dishes as delicious and intriguing today as they 
were in the days when the Vieux Carr6 of New Orleans was indeed a carr6, 
with forts at the comers, and when strange old ''bateaux" plied the Louisiana 
bayous and streams. Here's to our Creole cookery. May she never lose her 
magic! 



vu 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Chapter Pace 

Introduction iii 

Sug^tions to Housekeepers ix 

I.— Creole Coffee 1 

II. — Soups 3 

III. — Meat Soups 6 

IV.— Fish Soups 11 

V. — Lenten Soups 15 

VI.— The Bouilfi 21 

VII.— Creole Gumbo 26 

VIII.— Fish 29 

IX.— SheU Fish 47 

X.— SheU Fish (Continued) 55 

XL— Salt and Canned Fish 62 

XII.— Meate— Beef €6 

XIIL— Veal— Sweetbreads 75 

XIV.— Mutton 88 

XV.— Pork 96 

XVI.— Poultry 103 

XVII.— Pigeons 115 

XVIIL— Game 117 

XIX.— Birds 127 

XX. — Stuffing and Dressing for Poultry, Game and Fish, Etc 138 

XXI. — Sauces for Fish, Meats, Poultry, Game, Etc 141 

XXIL— Salads 152 

XXIir.— Eggs 158 

XXrV.— Louisiana Rice 162 

XXV.— Cereals 170 

XXVI.— Macaroni 175 

XXVIL— Cheese 178 

XXVIIL— Canapes 180 

XXIX.— Vegetables 184 

XXX.— Relishes 225 

XXXI.— Sweet Entremets 229 

XXXIL— Desserts 237 

XXXIIL— Pastry and Pies 242 

XXXIV.— Puddings 251 

XXXV.— Custards, Creams and Other Desserts 258 

XXXVL— Pudding Sauceij 268 

XXXVIL— Cakes 270 

XXXVIIL— Layer Cakes 286 

XXXIX.— Dessert Cakes 289 

XL.— Icings for Cakes 299 

XLI. — Ice Creams, Biscuits, Sherbets 301 

XLII.— Fruit Syrups 310 

XLlil.— Iced Fruit Drinks 314 

XLIV. — ^Jellies, Marmalades, Preserves 319 

XLV.— Creole Candies 326 

XLVL— Canning or PickUng 336 

XLVIL— Creole Breads 342 

XLVIII. — Suitable Combinations for Serving 361 

XLIX.— Varieties of Seasonable Foods 364 



* SUGGESTIONS 
TO HOUSEKEEPERS 



<^ 



The following suggestions will be 
found of Interest to all housekeepers, 
especially to the young and inexperi- 
enced. They have been carefully 
prepared, with especial reference to 
the needs of the household, and bear 
In every respect upon the recipes 
given in The Times- Picayune's Creole 
Cook Book: 

Comparative Table of Wel^lits and 
Measures Used in Tlie Tiroes- 
Picayune Creole Cook 
Book. 

Every housekeeper should have for 
her own convenience and for the cor- 
rect measurement of ingredients used 
in making any dish, where exact 
measurements are absolutely neces- 
sary to success, a pair of scales, and 
a set of tin or glass measures with 
small lips or spouts; these measures 
should range from half a gill to one 
gallon. But as so few housekeepers 
think of the necessity of having such 
measures until they set to making 
preparations where measurements 
must be exact, the following carefully 
prepared table may be referred to 
with absolute reliance upon the com- 
parative quantities given: 

Twenty-five drops of thin liquid 
equal half a teaspoonful. 

Four teaspoonfuls of solid or liquid 
equal one tablespoonful of solid or 
liquid. 

Four tablespoonfuls equal one 
wine-glassful or one-half gill. 

One wineglassful equals half a gill 
or one-quarter of a cup. 

Two -wineglassfuls equal one gill or 
half a cup. 

Two gills equal one teacupful, or 
sixteen tablespoonfuls. 

One teacupful or one kitchen cupful 
equals half a pint. 

Two teacupfuls or two kitchen cup- 
fuls equal one pint. 

Two pints equal one quart. 



Four quarts equal one gallon. 

One tablespoonful of liquid equals 
half an ounce. 

Two tablespoonfuls equal one ounce. 

One level tablespoonful of flour 
equals half an ounce. 

Two level tablespoonfuls solid equal 
one ounce liquid. 

Sixteen ounces equal one pound. 

One pound of solid Is equal to one 
pint of liquid. 

One quart of unsifted flour equals 
one pound. 

Four teacupfuls of sifted flour equal 
one pound. 

Three cups of cornmeal equal one 
pound. 

One and one-half pints of cornmeal 
equal one pound. 

One pint or two cups of granulated 
sugar equal one pound. 

One pint or two cups of brown 
sugar equal one pound. 

Two and one-half cupfuls of white 
pulverized sugar equal one pound. 

One well-rounded tablespoonful of 
butter equals one ounce. 

One tablespoonful of salt equals 
one ounce. 

One teacupful of cold, hard butter, 
pressed down, equals half a pound. 

Two cups of cold butter, pressed 
down, equal one pound. 

One pint of finely chopped meat, 
solidly packed, equals one pound. 

An ordinary-sized tumblerful U 
equal to half a pint, or one teacup- 
ful. 

Ten eggs equal one pound. 

A dash of pepper is equal to one- 
eighth of a teaspoonful. 

Observe Rules In Mixing Ingredients 

In every recipe grlven in this book 
follow the order given for the mixing 
of ingredients. This mixing has been 
systematically arranged, and any de- 
viation will fail of success. Whether 
mixing the ingredients in a "Roux,'* 



preparatory to adding the ingredient 
which constitutes the dish proper, or 
whether making: desserts, cakes, etc., 
add every ingredient, even though it 
be only a dash of pepper or a flavor- 
ing extract, in the order and propor- 
tion griven. On the strict observance 
of these rules followed by Creole 
cuisinieres, depends the success of 
Creole Cookery. 

One may use butter substitute for 
butter. Bacon fat is excellent for 
frying vegetables and may be used in 
many ways aa a butter substitute. 

Fewer eggs may be used in cake 
recipes. 

Grape juice may be used in place 
of wine. It is well to add it «when 
cooking turtle especially. 

Observe the directions given in re- 
gard to cutting, chopping, slicing and 
mincing, whether applied to vegeta- 
bles, meats or seasonings. 

When the Cook Book says to chop 
an ingredient, it means to chop in 
the strict sense of the word. When 
it directs that vegetables, etc., shall 
be cut, it means to cut, in the proper 
acceptation of that term in cookery. 
When it says to slice, it means that 
the Ingredient shall be sliced, and not 
cut or chopped; and so when the 
term "mince" is used, it means that 
the ingredient shall be minced or 
hashed as fine as possible. 

Use of Broth, Bouillon or Consouiiii^ 
in Cooking. 

While the infusion of Broth, Bouil- 
lon or Consomm^, or oyster water in 
lieu of plain water, adds, where indi- 
cated, a delightful flavor to the dish, 
the use of any of these is not impera- 
tive in makipg the dish, and water, 
in the proportion given for Broth or 
Consomm6, may always be used in- 
stead, except in special recipes. For 
instance, if you wish to have a real 
'*Jambalaya il* la Creole," the use of 
Broth or Consomm6 instead of water, 
where the Jambalaya is made of 
meats, and the use of oyster water 
where It is made of oysters, will im- 
part a flavor that is far superior to a 
dish prepared with water. Neverthe- 
less, In hundreds of households water 
is used almost exclusively, even in 
making a Jambalaya, because it is not 
every family that chooses to make a 
pot of Broth or Consomm6 just for 
the purpose of using it as an ingre- 
dient for a dish. 

Never be afraid, therefore, to un- 
dertake a dish because it calls for 
Bouillon or Consomme. Just proceed 



with the cooking, using water in- 
stead, and if your seasoning is good, 
and other direcUk}ns implicity fol- 
lowed in the pr^aration and cook- 
ing, the absence of Consomm6 will 
scarcely be detected. 

French Terms Used In Cooldng and 
Serving Dishes. 

In preparing the Creole Cook Book 
The Times-Picayune has sought to 
overcome the great difficulty that the 
majority of people outside of Louisi- 
ana experience in understanding 
French terms, as applied to various 
dishes and orders of service. Discus- 
sions have been going on in all parts 
of the country as to the desirability of 
abolishing French terms on bills of 
fare, one newspaper declaring: "What 
is the use of calling a dish 'Canard 
Canvasback,' when there is no French 
name for the famous Canvasback 
Duck?" All this Is very amusing in 
Louisiana, where the Canvasback 
Duck has been always known as the 
"Canard de Cheval." And so with 
other dishes. The use of French, 
however, continues in bills of fare 
prepared for elaborate banquets, 
etc., critics to the contrary notwith- 
standing, because the French order 
of service is the one accepted the 
world over, in state and official gath- 
erings. An air of distinction is con- 
ferred upon even a homely dish by 
calling it by its French name, and 
criticisms agrainst the practice will not 
easily do away with the usage. 

This cook book has sought to over- 
come the difficulty experienced by 
those who are not acquainted with 
the French language and French 
terms in cooking by giving with each 
recipe not only the correct English 
name of the dish, but the French one 
also. It further assists housekeepers 
and caterers generally by giving the 
definitions of a few additional French 
terms used in cooking and serving 
dishes: 

Assaisonnement — A Seasoning; a 
salad dressing. 

Assaisonnement Aromatique — An 
aromatic seasoning, such as parsley, 
chervil, etc. 

Aspic — This is a meat jelly or sav- 
ory for cold dishes. Boned Turkey, 
Galantine, Calf's Foot Jelly, Cold 
Tongue, Cold Daube, are all termed 
"En Aspic." 

Au Gratin — All baked or roasted 
dishes that are prepared with crumbs 
grated and sprinkled over are called 
"Au Gratin." 



zn 



Bouch^es — A Bouch^e indicates a 
mouthful, and is from the French 
"Bouche/' the mouth. It is applied 
in cooking: to all very thin, small pat- 
ties or cakes, as "Bouch6es d'Hultres," 
"Bouchfies ft la Reine," etc. 

Bonne Bouche — ^A good mouthful. 

Baba — A peculiar sweet cake, made 
of yeast, flour, milk and eergs. 

Bisque — A soup made of shellflsh. 
It is red in color, such as "Crawfish 
Bisque,*' the shells of which are 
boiled, mashed, pounded, strained and 
added to the soup stock. A "Lobster 
Bisque" may be prepared after the 
same manner as the "Crawfish Bis- 
que" in latitudes where lobsters may 
be obtained fresh. The Bisque then 
becomes "Bisque de Homard." 

Bisque d'£crevisse — A Crawfish 
Bisque or souy. 

Blanchir — To blanch. To blanch an 
article set it on the fire till it boils, 
and then plunge in cold water. This 
rule applies to vegetables, poultry, 
nuts, almonds, etc. The skin is thus 
removed and the article is blanched. 
Blanching also means simply to scald, 
as blanching oysters. 

Bouillon — A bouillon is a clear 
soup, much stronger than broth, and 
yet not quite so strong as Consomm^. 

Boudlns — ^A form of sausage. 

Boulettes — A small ball of meat, 
fish, etc., hashed and formed in balls 
and fried. 

Bouillabaisse — A famous French- 
Creole way of cooking fish, the 
French using the Sturgeon and Perch, 
the Creoles the Redflsh and Red 
Snapper. The fish is cooked to the 
point where It begins to boil; then 
you must stop on the instant. Hence 
the word "Bouillabaisse," from 
••Bouillir," to boil, and "Balsse," to 
stop. (See recipe for Bouillabaisse.) 

Brais6 — Smothered. All meats, 
fish, vegetables, etc., cooked In a 
closely covered stewpan, so as to re- 
tain not only their own flavor, but 
those of all other ingredients enter- 
ing into the dish, are termed "Brais^" 
or "k la Braise." 

Brioche — This is a delightful Cre- 
ole breakfast cake, made of slightly 
sweetened egg and milk, batter and 
yeast, set to rise over night, and 
formed into a "Brioche," or cake, 
with a central cake for a head, and 
the other cakes arranged around to 
the number of six or eight, and sprin- 
kled with sugar. 

Canapes — On toast. Anything served 
on toast is called "sur Canapes." 

Cannelle— Cinnamon. 



Caneton (masculine); Canette (fem- 
inine) Duckling. 

Caneton — Meat stuffed and folded 
up; forcemeat balls. 

Clharcuterie — ^The term for all sau- 
sagea 

Civet — A stew made of hare and so 
called because of the flavor of chives 
(elves) that enters into its composi- 
tion. 

Consomme — A clear soup that has 
been boiled down to almost a Jelly 
broth, and which is very rich. 

Consomme Dor€ — A gilded or gold- 
en yellow consomme. 

A la Cr^me — ^Wlth Cream, as "Sauce 
k la Crdme," etc. 

Cr&me k la Olace — Ice Oeam. 

A la Crapaudine — Crapaudine means 
like toadstool, or stone, as "Pigeons 
k la Crapaudine," which means pig- 
eons cooked and dressed to resemble 
little toadstools or frogs on a stone. 
(See recipe Pigeons k la Crapaudine.) 

Courtbouillon — A fish stew, gener- 
ally made of Redflsh. 

Courtbouillon k la Creole — A stew 
of Redflsh. 

Crodtons — Crusts of bread cut like 
dice or in any fancy shape, and toasted 
or fried in butter. 

Croustades — Pieces of bread larger 
than Crodtons toasted or fried in but- 
ter or lard, and used to serve minces 
or meats upon. 

Dindonneau — A turkey chick. 

Dariole — A custard pie. 

Diable — The devil. 

A la Diable — ^According to the devil. 
Generally applied to hot, flery prep- 
arations of meats, sauces, f»tc. 

Entree — A side dish, served between 
the courses at dinner. 

Entremet — A small by-dish. Entre- 
mets are sweet or otherwise. 

Entremet Sucr6 — ^A ffweet by-dish. 
Sweet entremets are generally served 
towards the close of the meal, Just be- 
fore the roasts. 

Flan — ^A custard. 

Fondue — Melted. Generally applied 
to a light preparation of melted 
cheese, auch as "Welsh Rarebit." 

Fondant — Sugar boiled and beaten 
to a cream paste. 

Granits — ^Aromatized fruit waters. 

Grille — Broiled. 

Hors d'Oeuvre — A by-dlsh; an out- 
work, a digression. Under this term 
are classed all foods that are regarded 
simply as accessories to a meal, and 
designed to excite the appetite, but 
not to satisfy. It is undoubtedly be- 
cause they are placed on the table 
outside or apart from other dishes 
that they have been so called. 



xui 



A la Jardiniere — Cooked with maAy 
chopped vegretables. 

Matelota — A rich fish stew, made 
with wine. 

Mayonnaise — A rich salad dressingr, 
made with egrgrs. oil, vinegar, etc., and 
served with chicken, shrimp or fish 
isalad generally. 

M^ringrue — The whites of eggs beat- 
en to a stiff froth with sugar. 

M6ringu6es — Covered with a Me- 
ringue. 

Marinade — A rich liquor of spleen, 
vinegar or wine, etc.. In which beef 
or fish are steeped for several hours 
before cooking. 

A la Mode — After the latest fashion. 

Mironton — Cold boiled meat; hashed 
and warmed over, and served in vari- 
ous ways. 

Neige — Snow. 

A la Neige-— Snowy; like snow. 

Pftte — A batter; a pie dough. 

P&t6s — Small pies or patties of oys- 
ters, meats, fruits, etc. 

Panachft— Mottled, variegated. As 
•*Cr6me Panach^e," or "Variegated Ice 
Cream." 

Poulet — ^A chicken. 
A la Poulette — ^As a chicken; for in- 
stance, a "Sauce k la Poulette." always 
has eggs added, the eggs giving the 
distinctive name "d, la Poulette.'* 

Praline — A distinctive Creole sugar 
cake made of cocoanut and sugar or 
pecans and sugar. (See recipes "Pra- 
line.") 

Pralin^e — Sugared, or sugar-coated. 

Piment — Pepper. 

Pimento — Peppered. 

Piquante — ^A sauce of piquant flavor, 
vinegar or acid predominating, and 
highly seasoned with pepper. 

A la Plaque — A "Plaque" is a flat 
baking pan or griddle. Articles baked 
in it are called "a la Plaque," as Pan 
Bread, or "Pain & la Plaque." 

Quenelles — Meat, liver, fish or pota- 
toes chopped and highly seasoned and 
rolled into balls or boulettes and 
boiled and served as a garnish. We 
have also "Potato Quenelles." 

Ragotlt — A rich stew of meat or 
poultry, generally made with vege- 



tables, such as mushrooms, green 
peas, truffles, potatoes, etc. 

Remoulade — ^A dressing for salads, 
made somewhat like Mayonnaise, but 
differing in this, that the eggs are 
all hard-boiled and rubbed in a mortar 
with mustard, vingar, minced garlic, 
etc. 

Relev^s — A side dish; a term ap- 
plied when it is desired to serve an- 
other dish beside an entree. 

Rissoles — Minced meat or fish, 
rolled in thin pastry and fried. 

Roux — ^A mixture of flour and but- 
ter, or flour and lard, used as a foun- 
dation for sauces or as a foundation 
for stews, salmis, etc. * 

R6ti — A roast. 

Tarte — ^A pie. 

Tartelette — A tartlet 

Sauter — To smother and toss meats, 
fowl, vegetables, etc., over the fire in 
butter or fat. 

Savarin — A wine cake. 

Salmi — A rich stew of venison, duck 
or other game, cut up and dressed 
generally with wine. 

Salmigondis — A hotch-potch of 
game. 

Saucissons de Lyons — Bologna Sau* 
sage. 

Salade d' Anchois — Anchovy Salad. 

Souffle — An omelet, pudding or cus- 
tard, thoroughly beaten and whipped 
until it becomes so light that when 
cooked it must be eaten immediately, 
else it will fall. 

Talmouse — A cheese cake. 

Tartine d' Anchois — Anchovy Tar- 
tines; circles of brown bread, spread 
with Anchovy Paste, yolks and whites 
of hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine, also 
chopped pickles, all arranged in alter- 
nate rows. 

Timbale — A pie cooked in a mold. 
In "Macaroni en Timbale" the maca- 
roni is cooked in the cheese head. 

Vinaigrette — ^A sauce or salad dress- 
ing, made of salt and pepper, with 
vinegar predominating. 

Vol-au-Vent — ^A chicken, meat, fish 
or game pie, baked in a light Puff 
Paste, and served as an entree. 




XIV 



The Picayune 
Creole Cook Book 



CHAPTER I 







i 



Oafi d la Oriole 



Travelers the world over unite in 
praise of Creole CoffeCp or *'Caf6 & la 
Creole/' as they are fond of calllngr 
It. The Creole culslnidres succeeded 
^ far beyond even the famous chefs of 
!• ranee in discoveringr the secret of 
good coffee making, and they have 
never yielded the palm of victory. 
There Is no place in the world in 
which the use of coffee is more gen- 
eral than in the old Creole city of 
New Orleans, where the cup of "Caf4 
Noir." or "Caffe au Lait," at morning, 
at noon and at night, has become a 
necessary and delightful part of the 
life of the people, and the wonder and 
the Joy of visitors. 

The morning cup of Caf6 Noir is an 
integral part of the life of a Creole 
household. The older residents con- 
tend that, after a hearty meal, a cup 
of "Caf4 Noir," or black coffee, will 
relieve the sense of oppression so apt 
to be experienced, and will enable the 
stomach to perform its functions with 
grreater facility. 

How important, then, is the art of 
making good coffee, entering, as it 
does, so largely into the daily life of 
the American people. There is no rea- 
son why the secret should be confined 
to any section or city but, with a 
little care and attention, every house- 
hold in the land may enjoy its morn- 
ing or after-dinner cup of coffee with 
as much real pleasure as the Creoles 
of New Orleans, and the thousands of 



visitors who yearly migrate to this old 
Franco-Spanish city. 

Best Ingredients and Proper Making 

One of the first essentials is to 
"Parch the coffee grains Just before 
making the coffee," because coffee 
that has been long parched and left 
standing loses its flavor and strength. 
The coffee grains should "be roasted 
to a rich brown," and never allowed 
to scorch or burn, otherwise the flavor 
of the coffee is at once affected or de- 
stroyed. Bear this in mind, that the 
GOOD CREOLE COOK NEVER 
BOILS COFFEE, but insists on drip- 
ping it, in a covered strainer, slowly 
— DRIP, DRIP. DRIP— till all the fla- 
vor is extracted. 

To reach this desired end. immedi- 
ately after the coffee has been roasted 
and allowed to cool in a covered dish, 
so that none of the flavor will escape, 
the coffee is ground — neither too fine, 
for that will make the coffee dreggy; 
nor too coarse, for that prevents the 
escape of the full strength of the cof- 
fee Juice — but Just moderately, which 
will allow the hot water not to run 
rapidly through, but rather to perco^ 
late slowly through the grounds, ex- 
tracting every bit of the strength and 
aroma, and falling slowly with a "drip! 
drip!" into the coffee pot. 

To make good coffee the water must 
be "freshly boiled," and must never 



I 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



be poured upon the grounds until it 
has reached the boiling: point, oth- 
erwise the flavor is destroyed and 
subsequent pourings of boiling water 
can never quite succeed in extracting 
the strength and aroma which distin- 
guish the good cup of cofCee. 

It is of the greatest importance that 
"the coffee pot be kept perfectly 
clean." and the good cook will bear in 
mind that absolute cleanliness is aa 
necessary for the "interior" of the 
coffee pot as for the shining "ex- 
terior." This fact is one too com- 
monly overlooked, and yet the coffee 
pot requires more than ordinary care, 
for the reason that the chemical ac- 
tion of the coffee upon the tin or 
agate tends to create a substance 
which collects and clings to every 
crevice and seam, and, naturally, in 
the course of time, affects the fla- 
vor of the coffee most peculiarly and 
unpleasantly. Very often the fact 
that the coffee tastes bitter or muddy 
arises from this neglect. The inside of 
the coffee pot should, therefore, be 
washed as carefully every day as the 
outside. 

Having observed these conditions, 
proceed to make the coffee according 
to the following unfailing 

Creole Rule 

Have the water heated to a good 
boil. Set the coffee pot in front of the 
stove; never on top, as the coffee will 
boil, and then the taste is destroyed. 

Allow one cup, or the ordinary mill, 
of coffee to make four good cups of 
the liquid, ground and put in the 
strainer, being careful to keep both 
the strainer and the spout of the cof- 
fee pot covered to prevent the flavor 
from escaping. Pour, first, about two 
tablespoonfuls of the boiling water on 
the coffee grounds, or, according to 
the quantity of coffee used. Just suffi- 
cient to settle the grounds. Wait 
about five minutes; then pour a little 
more water, and allow it to drip 
slowly through, but never pour water 
the second time until the grounds 
have ceased to puff or bubble, as this 
is an indication that the grounds have 
settled. Keep pouring slowly, at in- 



tervals, a little boiling water at a 
time, until the delightful aroma of the 
coffee begins to escape from the 
closed spout of the coffee pot. If the 
coffee dyes the pot it is a little too 
strong, but do not go far beyond this 
or the coffee will be too weak. When 
you have produced a rich fragrant 
concoction, whose delightful aroma, 
filling the room, is a constant, tempt- 
ing invitation to taste it, serve in china 
cups, using in preference loaf sugar 
for sweetening. Tou have then a real 
cup of Creole Cafe Nolr, so extensively 
used at dawn, at breakfast, and aa 
the "after-dinner cup." 

If the coffee appears muddy, or not 
clear, some of the old Creoles drop 
into it a piece of charcoal an inch 
thick, which settles it and at once 
makes it clear. As it has been proved 
that strength remains in the coffee 
grounds, it is a matter of economy to 
save the grounds from the meal or 
day before and boil them in a half 
gallon of water. Settle the grounds 
by dropping two or three drops of 
cold water in, and pour the water over 
the fresh grounds. This is a sugges- 
tion that rich and poor might heed 
with profit. 

CAFfi AU LAIT 

Proceed in the same manner aa in 
the making of "Caf6 Noir," allowing 
the usual quantity of boiling water to 
the amount of coffee used. When 
made, pour the coffee into china cups, 
allowing a half cup of coffee to each 
cup. Serve, at the same time, a small 
pitcher of very sweet and fresh cream, 
allowing a half cup of cream to a half 
cup of coffee. The milk should al- 
ways be boiled, and the cream very 
hot. If the cream is not fresh and 
sweet, it will curdle in the coffee. 
Caf6 au Lait is a great breakfast drink 
in New Orleans, while Caf6 Noir is 
more generally the early morning and 
the afternoon drink. 

Ha\ing thus bid its readers "Good 
morning," and drunk with them a cup 
of Caf6 Noir, the Times-Picayune will 
proceed to discuss Creole Cookery In 
all its forms, from soup "& la Creole," 
to "pacandes amandes" and "pra- 
lines." 



-I - 



THE PICAYUNE OREOIjE COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER II 




General Direction* for Making Soup — Pot-au-Feu, Bouillon and Con9omme 



Uncooked meat is the base of all 
soups, except such as the Creoles call 
"Maigre," or fast-day soups. These 
delie:htful Cream Soups, or Purees, 
will be specially treated later. Soups 
enter largely into the domestic life ,of 
New Orleans, as also more particu- 
larly the Pot-au-Feu, the Bouillon and 
the Consomm4. These three are the 
"mother-soups," for upon their care- 
ful- preparation depends taste, flavor 
and the entire problem of good soup 
making. 

The Creoles have preserved with 
few modifications many of the cus- 
toms of their French ancestors, among 
them being the daily plate of soup. 

In France soup enters far more 
largely into the life of the people than 
in this old French city of New Orleans. 
The morning cup of bouillon is served 
In the most exclusive homes. A cup of 
claret and a plate of good soup form 
the essential morning portion of the 
peasantry. The Creoles have elimi- 
nated the morning cup of bouil- 
lon, but retained the daily serv- 
ing of soup at dinner, in time 
introducing as a frequent substi- 
tute that exclusive Creole concoction 
Gumbo. No dinner is considered com- 
plete without either. The custom has 
been very generally adopted by Amer- 
ican residents of New Orleans. The 
Creole housewife lays the greatest 
stress upon two great essentials in the 
making of good soup: in the first 
place, the soup must never stop boil- 
ing one instant until done; secondly, 
once the soup is started, water must 
never be added. Neither, on the other 
hand, must the soup be allowed to 
boil rapidly, or it will be muddy and 
lose much of its flavor and strength 
by evaporation. The '*soup bone," or 
"bouilli," as the Creoles call it in 
New Orleans, must be put on in cold 
water, without salt, and must heat 
slowly. The pot must be kept well 
covered, and no salt must be added 



until the meat is thoroughly cooked, 
as the addition of salt tends to harden 
the flbers of the meat and prevents 
the free flow of the Juices. At no stage 
must the soup be allowed to boll fast. 
If the bone has been fractured every 
inch of its length, the soup will be all 
the stronger and more nutritious. The 
beef ^ould be selected for its qual- 
ity, as freshly killed as possible, and 
preferably of the cut known by 
butchers as "the horseshoe." To be 
most nutritious the soup should boil 
a long time. The Creoles never serve 
soup that has been cooking less than 
Ave or seven hours, according to the 
quantity to be made. In a well-regu- 
lated household the soup is put on at 
noon on the rear of the stove, and 
allowed to cook slowly for four or five 
hours, until the time comes for put- 
ting on the dinner proper. When the 
moment for adding the vegetables or 
other Ingredients arrives, the strength 
of the meat has been nearly or quite 
extracted. 

The two suggestions, "never allow 
the soup to cease boiling when once it 
has begun, and never to add water 
after the ingredients are once put to- 
gether and begin to boil," have been 
called the "Golden Rule" of soup 
making. The housekeeper should 
take them to heart, for upon their 
.•strict observance depends a good plate 
of soup. If these rules are learned 
and faithfully followed, the first step 
has been taken towards setting a good 
dinner. 

Kice flour, arrowroot or corn starch 
mixed with a little water are often 
used to thicken soups; but every good 
Creole cook knows that the soup that 
is properly made needs no thickening. 
Salt should be used sparingly, as also 
spices, which should always be put in 
whole. To be palatable, soup must be 
served very hot. 

It is generally estimated that in pre- 
paring soups a pound of meat should 



THE PICAYVNE CKEOJJE COOK BOOK 



be allowed for every quart of water. 
The intellis:ent housekeeper can read- 
ily determine the exact measurements 
needed in her family, increasing pro- 
portions when guests are expected. 

Pot-au-Feu, or Simple Bouillon 

The Pot-au-Feu, or Bouillon, is 
made by boiling a good soup bone, 
which has been carefully selected for 
its nutritive qualities, in water a cer- 
tain lengrth of time, by means of 
w^hich the nutriment is extracted. 
Bouillon of the best quality can only 
be made from good meat, which 
should be chosen from the fleshy, 
juicy part of the thigh. Meat from 
the breast or lower ribs makes good 
Pot-au-Feu, but of a lighter quality, 
and is preferred by some Creole 
cuisinidres. 

The vegetables used are found in 
the "soup bunch," which comprises 
pieces of cabbage, a turnip or two, 
carrots, parsley, celery and onion. 
Many Creole cooks add garlic and 
cloves, thyme, bay leaf and allspice. 
'But this is a matter of taste. The 
every-day Bouillon is made by boiling 
the soup bone for four or five hours, 
skimming carefully as the scum rises, 
and adding, as it starts boiling well, 
the vegetables contained in the "soup 
bunch." If vermicelli, macaroni or 
other soup is desired, such as can be 
made from the simple Bouillon, or 
Pot-au-Feu, these ingredients are 
added in the proportions mentioned 
in the special recipe for these soups, 
and the soup is boiled an hour or so 
longer. 

The Herb Bouquet 

Every good Creole cook keeps on 
hand an "herb bouquet," made of a 
spray of parsley, a sprig of thyme, 
celery and bay leaf. These are tied 
together, and constitute the "bou- 
quet." It will flavor a gallon of 
soup, if cooked for an hour. 

Pot-au-Fen a la Creole 

4 Pounds of Lean Beef. 

6 Quarts of Cold Water. 

2 Small Turnips. 2 Onions. 2 Carrots. 

1 Parsnip. 1 Cup of Cut-up Tomatoes. 

2 Whole Cloves. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

5 Allspice. 2 Irish Potatoes. 

Small Piece of Lemon Peel. 

Small Piece of Red Pepper Pod. 

Bunch of Celery Leaves (Chopped). 

Bunch of Parsley (Chopped). 

Pinch of Salt. Pinch of Black Pepper. 

Sprig of Cabbage. 



This Pot-au-Feu, properly made, is 
truly delicious, savory and delicately 
odorous. The best cut for this is from. 
the lower end of the beef round. Many 
Creoles use the brisket in this 
soup. This is rich and Juicy, and 
gives nutritive value to the dish. 
If delicacy is preferred to rich- 
ness in the soup, the marrow bone is 
omitted. Put the meat into cold 
water, heating by slow degrees in 
order that it may gradually penetrate 
the meat, softening it and dissolving 
the non-nutritive portion, which rises 
to the top of the liquid as a scum. 
As the scum becomes thicker remove 
it. After having skimmed well set 
the soup back where it can be kept 
on a gentle but steady boil; when the 
soup is well skimmed, add the vege- 
tables, which have been cut to proper 
fineness, and a little salt to suit the 
taste, and let the soup continue to 
boil from five to six hours, remember- 
ing strictly the two essential rules 
given, ^y following this recipe you 
will have an excellent soup. 

The Creoles often serve the Pot-au- 
Feu with small squares of dry or 
toasted bread, put into the tureen, and 
the hot soup poured over them at 
the moment of serving. 

Should the flavor of the garlic, all- 
spice, cloves or bay leaf be disagree- 
able, they may be omitted. But they 
are essential ingredients of the Creole 
Pot-au-Feu. 

A particularly delicate flavor is often 
obtained by adding to the beef some 
pieces of raw fowl, or the remains of 
a cooked fowl, more especially the 
carcass. But never add remains of 
mutton, pork or veal, as these meats 
impart an acrid odor, detracting from 
the perfection of the Pot-au-Feu. 

Bouillon 

To make a good Bouillon is an 
art in itself. It is the soup that most 
frequently, after the Pot-au-Feu, en- 
ters into the economy of the Creole 
household. It is not only used in the 
daily menu, but on occasions of fam- 
ily reunion and soirees, is served 
cold or warm in cups. It is always 
prepared in a concentrated form for 
the use of invalids. In illness, where 
the quantity administered is required 
to be as nutritious as possible, the 
round steak should always be chosen 
for the Bouillon, and it is decidedly 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



better not to clear the soup, as the 
process of clearing not only destroys 
a great deal of the delicate flavor, but 
also of the nutriment contained in the 
Bouillon. 

Select good fresh beef, and where 
intended for an invalid allow two 
pounds of beef to every quart of 
water. The Bouillon should always 
boil from six to seven hours. For 
dinners, luncheons, etc., the follow- 
ing proportions may be used: 

6 Pounds of Beef without Bone or Fat. 

6 Quarts of Cold Water. 

4 Cloves. 6 Allspice. 

A Small Cup of Fresh or Canned 

Tomatoes. 

1 Teaspoon of Salt. 

1 S^oon of Celery Seed. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

A Piece of Red Pepper Pod, without 

Seeds. 

(Omit for the Sick.) 

1 Clove of Garlic (Omit for the Sick). 

Put these ingredients into the soup 
kettle, after the Bouillon has been 
brought to a boil. Then set aside and 
let it simmer gently. After two and 
a half hours add 

A Sprig of Thyme. 

1 Onion, cut in pieces. 

1 Small Bunch of Celery, If you have 

not used the seed. 
1 Medium Sized Carrot, chopped tine. 

Replace the cover and let the 
Bouillon boil gently for two and one- 
half hours more, making five hours 
of actual boiling, when not intended 
for Invalid use. At this stage, from 
the quantity of ingredients used in 
the above recipe, the Bouillon will 
measure about three quarts for fam- 
ily use. If you decide not to clarify 
the soup, set it aside and let It set- 
tle, then carefully pour off the upper 
portion, but do not shake the bowl 
or disturb the sediment. The Creoles 
then add about a tablespoonful of 
celery and a little cayenne. This 
soup requires no artificial coloring, 
its own strength and long boiling pro- 
ducinir a beautiful tint. Should a 
greater quantity be required, the 
housekeeper will guide herself accord- 
ing to the proportions given in this 
recipe. 

To Clarify BonOlon 

To clarify Bouillon, remove the fat 
and pour the broth Into a clear kettle. 
Add the crushed shells of two eggs. 
Stir this into the cold soup until well 
mixed. From the moment it begins to 
boil let it cook steadily ten minutes 
longer. Set it back on the stove or 



hearth for four or five minutes to 
settle. Then strain it through a cloth. 
Allow the Bouillon to drip, remember- 
ing never to squeeze the bag. A very 
clear soup is never a very nutritious 
one. 

Consomm^ 

6 Pounds of Lean Beef. 

2 Large Sized Onions. 

2 Carrots. 2 Stalks Celery. 

1 Piece of Cabbage. 
Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

A Consomme is a clear soup. 

Select six pounds of lean beef, rump 
of beef and some bones, and cut the 
meat into small pieces, the bones also 
being mashed. Put this on in about 
six quarts of cold water, and, when it 
comes to a boil, skim well. Add a 
teaspoonful of salt to help the scum 
rise more thoroughly, and skim as it 
rises. Take two large-sized onions, 
two carrots, a piece of cabbage and 
two pieces of celery; chop fine and 
add to the soup, and let it boil six 
hours, or until the broth is reduced 
about one-half the quantity. By this 
time the meat should be cooked into 
rags. Pass all through a colander and 
then strain through a coarse flannel 
cloth. Season highly with cayenne 
pepper and salt to taste. If the 
meat is good, the soup will be per- 
fectly clear. If it is cloudy or muddy 
before straining, crush the shells of 
two eggs and put them into the soup 
and let it come to a good boil. Set 
it back about ten minutes and then 
strain. Add vermicelli, or macaroni, 
or pates, according to taste. This 
soup will require no artificial coloring. 



Colorings for Soup 

Having given the recipes for the 
"mother soups," which are the bases 
of all soups, a word must be said 
about colorings for soup. While col- 
orings have been extensively used in 
New Orleans, the good old Creoles 
long ago found out that coloring mat- 
ter, whether in liquid form or in 
balls or tablets, detracted from the 
good flavor of the soup, and that a 
properly made soup needed no color- 
ing. The good Bouillon has a color 
peculiar to itself — a reddish yellow, 
which comes from the juice of the 
meat. The absence of natural color 
in the soup indicates that too small 
an amount or a poor quality of 
meat has been used in proportion to 



THC PICAYIJNK CREOLE GOOK BOOK 



the water, or there has been a too 
rapid process of boilinfir. Still, if col- 
orings are desired, the following: 
recipe, which is free from delete- 
rious compounds, has long: been used 
by the Creoles for coloring: firravies, 
and may be used with erood effect in 
soups. It is called by the Creoles 

Caramel 

Take about a half pint of brown 
sugar, put it in a pan, on a slow fire. 



and let it burn or parch, slowly stir- 
ring all the time. When it turns a 
dark brown, add two pints of water, 
stir well, and then bottle. Put 
it away and use a few drops at a time 
to color and thicken gravies and soup 
broths. Or, take a large raw onion, 
skin and all, and thrust into the burn- 
ing coals. When it begins to brown 
well, take out of the coals, dust off 
all the ashes and throw into the soup 
or gravy. This will give all the color- 
ing that is needed. 



CHAPTER m 



MEAT 



SOUPS 




Julienne Soup 

Potage d la Julienne 

5 Pounds of Lean Beef. 5 Quarts of 

Water. 

2 Turnips. 2 Carrots. 2 Onions. 

2 Leeks. A Small Stalk of Celery. 

3 Tomatoes. 

A Small Half-head of White Cabbage. 

A Gill of Green Peas. 

The shin of the beef is the best to 
make a good Julienne soup. Set the 
beef and water in a close vessel where 
they will heat gradually. After boil- 
ing five or six hours, take a table- 
spoonful of lard, heat and add the 
vegetables, cut into long thin shreds, 
letting them fry or smother until a 
golden brown. Then add to the boil- 
ing broth. If fresh peais are used 
they must be boiled apart. If canned 
peas, simply add to the broth, after 
putting in the vegetables. Let them 
cook in the broth one hour longer and 
serve hot with the vegetables. 



Macaroni S019 

Potage au Macaroni 

2 Quarts of Broth. 
^ Pound of Macaroni. 

Prepare a good Pot-au-Feu, or 

Bouillon, according to directions given, 

allowing a quarter of a pound of 

macaroni to two quarts of broth. 

Break the macaroni into two-inch 

length pieces and add to the boiling 

broth about a half hour before serving. 

Some housekeepers cook the macaroni 

separately in salted boiling water 



about ten or fifteen minutes, draining 
thoroughly, and dropping into the 
boiling broth about fifteen minutes 
before serving. The soup is often 
served with Parmesan cheese, grated. 



Vermicelli Soup 

Consomm^, or Potage au Vermioelle 

^ Pint of Broth to Each Person. 
1 Ounce of Vermicelli to Each Person. 

Prepare a good Bouillon, Pot-au- 
Feu, or Consomme, according to the 
taste of the household, the simple 
Pot-au-Feu being most generally used. 
A half hour before serving add the 
vermicelli to the broth, and serve hot. 

Tapioca Soup 

Potage au Tapioca 
4 Ounces of Tapioca. 3 Qaartb of Broth. 
To three quarts of broth add, about 
forty minutes before serving, four 
ounces of tapioca, which has been 
previously well soaked. Stir frequent- 
ly while boiling, and serve hot. 



Sago Soup 

Potage au Sago 

3 Pints of Broth. 

2 Ounces of Sago. 

The sago should always be soaked 
over night. Allow two ounces to every 
three pints of broth or Consomme. 
Boil for one hour before serving, sir- 
ring occasionally. 



THE PICAYUNE CliEOLE COOK BOOK 



Rice Soup 

Potage au Riz 

\i Cup of Rice. 
3 Pints of Broth or Con8omm6. 

Prepare the clear Pot-au-Feu or 
Consomme. When nearly done add 
one-half cupful of rice, which has 
been thorou^rhly washed and dried. 
Cook for about twenty-five minutes 
longer, or until done, and serve. 

Barley soup is prepared after the 
same style, using a clear Bouillon or 
Consomme. 

Okra Soup 

Potaffe au F6vi 

2 Pounds of Beef without fat or bone. 

2 Cups of Okra, chopped fine. 
% Pound of Butter. 4 Quarts of Cold 

Water. 

1 Onion, sliced and chopped. 

Salt and Pepper. 

Cut the beef into small pieces, and 
season well with butter, pepper and 
salt. Fry it in the soup kettle with 
the onion and butter until very 
brown. Then add the cold water and 
let it simmer for an hour and a half. 
Add the okra and let it simmer gently 
for three or four hours longer. 

Ox-Xail Soup 

Boupe de Queue de Boeuf 

1 Ox Tail. 

A Bunch of Soup Herbs. 1 Head of 

Celerv 
4 Quarts of Boiling Water. 1 Large 

Onion. 

2 Carrots. 3 Cloves. 

A ^rig of Parsley. 

A Small Slice of Lean Ham or Beef. 

Salt and Pepper. 

Cut the tail in pieces from the Joint, 
and cut again into pieces one inch 
and a half in length. Chop the onions 
very fine. Put the onion and a table- 
spoonful of lard into a frying pan and 
add the oz tail. Cook slowly until it 
begins to brown, then add the carrots, 
cut in pieces about the size of a green 
pea, and about a square inch of ham, 
chopped very fine. Let this brown 
and when it begins to brown nicely, 
add the thyme, bay leaf, three cloves, 
one clove of garlic, all chopped very 
fine. Let this continue to brown, be- 
ing careful not to burn, and then add 
one tablespoonful of flour, dredged in 
lightly and stirred, and when all is 
nicely browned, add about five quarts 
of Consomme, if you have it; if not, 
five quarts of boiling water and three 
tablespoonfuls of barley. Let it cook 
together about four hours, simmering 
gently, seasoning with salt» pepper 
and cayenne to taste. 



Noodle Soup 

Potage au Nouilles 

3 Quarts of Good Bouillon or 

Consomme. 

The Yolks of 3 Eggs. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

1 Cup of Flour. H Tablespoonful of 

Salt. 

Prepare a good Bouillon or Con- 
somme. To a quart of the soup, add 
noodles made as follows: Beat the 
yolks of three eggs, and the whites of 
two together until very light; add one 
cup of flour, one-half teaspoon of salt, 
and mix with cold water; making a 
stiff paste; roll very thin; then roll 
each strip to form a tube; cut in 
strips, grease and simmer a few at a 
time in boiling salt water for about 
twenty minutes. Simmer the noodles 
in the soup about fifteen minutes. 



Mushroom Soup. 

Potage au Ohampignont 

U Pound of Good Macaroni 

hi I Pound of Fresh Mushrooms or a 

Half Can of Mushrooms. 

H Carrot and Onion. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Pints of Consomme or Bouillon. 

1 Pint of Cream. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Break the macaroni Into pieces of 
about three inches; wash and put 
into a 8tewpQ,n, with two quarts of 
boiling water; add three teaspoonfuls 
of salt. Let the macaroni boil half 
an hour, and meanwhile make a 
sauce. Put the butter and flour ih a 
small stewpan and beat to a cream. 
Then add the chopped onion, carrot 
and pepper, the remaining salt and 
broth, and heat slowly. When the 
sauce begrins to boil, set it back, where 
it will only simmer, for about twenty 
minutes. At the end of that time add 
the cream and then strain the sauce. 
Pour the water from the macaroni, 
and in its place put the sauce and 
mushrooms; cook for five minutes, 
and serve hot. 



Potage Gro&te-nu-Pot 

S Quarts of Good Consommi, 

10 Pieces of Dried Toast. 1 Carrot, cut 

fine. 

1 Head of Celery, cut fine. 

1 Turnip, cut fine. 

Crodte-au-Pot is one of the most 

popular and excellent Creole soups. 

Prepare a good consommS. In the 

meantime, parboil the vegetables in 

salted boiling water. When tender. 



8 



THK PICAYVNE CBEX>Ij£ COOK BOOK 



drain off the water, and add to them 
about two and one-half quarts of the 
boilingr consomm^. Let them simmer 
until they are very tender. Prepare 
the toasts and put them into a sauce- 
pan with enough consomm^ to cover 
them. Simmer gently until the toasts 
have absorbed all the consomme and 
show signs of drying up. Then add a 
little hot consomm^, remove them 
from the saucepan, lay them in the 
tureen and pour the soup with the 
vegetables very gently over them. 
S«a*ve immediately. 



Savory Soup. 

Potage a la Bonne M^nayerc. 

4 Pounds of Lean Beef. 4 Quarts of 

Water. 

1 Onion, chopped fine. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. Vk Cup of Rice. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Oatmeal. 

1 Tablespoonful of Salt. % Teaspoonful 

of Pepper. 

Put the meat in four quarts of cold 
water and let it simmer for three 
hours. 

One hour before serving, add one- 
half cup of rice, which has beefi 
soaked in water until soft, and three 
tablespoonfuls of oatmeal, one table- 
spoonful of salt and one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of pepper. Add parsley, 
sprig of thyme and on^ onion, 
chopped flne. Boil an hour longer and 
serve, very hot. This makes a de- 
licious soup. 

Com Soup. 

Soup au Maia Tendre 

6 Pounds of the Lower Ribs of Beef. 

6 Quarts of Cold Water. 

1 Quart of Sliced Fresh Tomatoes. 

1 Quart of Corn, sliced from the cob. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

One Pod of Cayenne Pepper, without 

Seeds. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Corn soup is one of the most popu- 
lar summer soups, and will be found 
not only delicious, but highly nutri- 
tive. 

Put the meat and water into a soup 
pot, and as soon as the scum begins 
to rise skim carefully. Then add the 
tomatoes and corncobs. Cook for four 
hours or so longer; then take out the 
corncobs, and add the corn, cut flne, 
salt and pepper to suit the taste, add- 
ing a pod of Cayenne pepper, without 
the seeds; cook one hour longer and 
then serve with slices of toast bread. 



Tomato Conaoinin^. 

Con9omm4 de Tomatet 

A Shin of Veal. 

3 Pounds of Shin of Beef. 

8 Quarts of Water. 1 Cup of Tomatoes. 

A Handful of Sorrel (if tomatoes are 

not used). 

Salt and Pepper. 3 Onions. 3 Leeks. 

10 Allspice. 6 Cloves. 3 Large Carrots. 

1 Head of Celery. 1 Bunch of Parsley. 

A Chicken may be substituted for the 

Shin of Veal. 

Put the meat or chicken (the latter 
cut up) into a large soup kettle and 
let it come slowly to a boil. As It be- 
gins to boil more rapidly skim as the 
scum rises. After another hour add 
the pepper, salt and vegetables. The 
soup should boil incessantly, but gent- 
ly, for about eight hours, requiring In 
all about nine hours of good cooking. 
It should, therefore, be put on very 
early iA the morning, and, if required 
for luncheon should be made the day 
before. When the soup has boiled 
gently for the prescribed time t&ke it 
off, strain into a large bowl and set 
it away in the ice box until the next 
day, if not for immediate use. Then 
remove the fat from the surface, and 
pour off all the clear part into a 
saucepan and boll again for one or 
two hours. Then remove it from the 
flre. This will make a stiff Jelly, 
which will keep in winter for several 
days in the ice box. It also serves 
to make a beautiful Sauce Espagnole, 
or Spanish Sauce. The best way to 
keep it is in earthen pitchers holding 
from one to two quarts, allowing a 
certain quantity for eacli day. 

Mock-Turtle Soup. 

Soupe a la Tortue 

1 Calf's Head. % Pound of Calf's Liver. 

5 Quarts of Cold Water. 
Bunch of Soup Herbs. 2 Hard-Boiled 

Eggs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Bay Leaf. 12 Cloves. 1 Onion. Lemon. 

4 Level Teaspoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Carrot. Turnip. 

1 Level Teaspoonful Mushroom Catsup. 

I Level Teaspoonful Worcestershire 

Sauce. 
Salt and Pepper to Suit Taste. 

Select a flne calf's head, not too 
large. If large, reserve half and the 
tongue and brains to make another 
dish. Get the butcher to crack the 
head well and remove the brains. 
Wash the head thoroughly in cold 
water, and then be careful to pour 
boiling water through nose and throat 
passages until they are perfectly clean, 
and scrape out the ears thoroughly. 



the: picayune: crex>IjE cook book 



9 



washing very clean. Rinse all well 
in cold water, and be very sure that 
the head is very sweet and clean be- 
fore attempting to cook it. Put the 
head in a kettle with five quarts of 
cold water, and set it over a moderate 
lire. When it begins to boil well skim 
thoroughly, till every particle of scum 
has been taken off. Then set It back 
and let it simmer until the meat is 
quite tender. This will require about 
two hours and a half. Then remove 
the head; take the meat from the 
bones; skin the tingue, and set away 
to. cool. Return the bones to the ket- 
tle with the vegetables, 'which have 
been washed and cut fine; as, also, 
the spices and the liver. Simmer 
gently again for two hours, and when 
cool, strain. Set aside to cool, and 
when the soup is cold, remove all the 
fat Put the butter in a saucepan and 
melt, adding the flour until nicely 
browned, but be careful not to burn 
it Then add by degrees the boiling 
soup, stirring constantly. Boil, keep- 
ing up a gentle stir, for about five 
minutes. Then add the meat of the 
head and the liver, having first cut 
them into dice, and bring to a boil 
at once. Take the saucepan from the 
fire, and add the catsup, salt and pep- 
per. Slice the hard-boiled eggs and 
the lemon and place them in the 
tureen, and pour the soup over them, 
then serve. 

If force-meat balls are desired for 
the soup, prepare them as follows: 

Force-Meat Balla 

Chop a half of a pound of beef or 
veal and add chopped chicken about 
an inch in thickness; and a little of 
the liver and tongue of the calf, a 
half dozen small onions, one table- 
spoonful of sweet marjoram, one 
grated nutmeg, a teaspoonful each of 
powdered black pepper and mace, and 
a half teaspoonful of cloves (pow- 
dered), three eggs, three grated 
crackers (sifted), a tablespoonful of 
butter and two teaspoonfuls of salt; 
chop up and mix thoroughly together. 
Then roll in balls and fry slowly in 
lard or butter. Serve with the soup. 

Cfiioken BrotK. 

Bouillon de Volaille 
To make a good chicken broth for 
invalids, take one good large chicken; 
clean carefully and cut up, being care- 



ful to mash all the bones into bits. 
Place in a saucepan of cold water, 
and let it simmer gently for four or 
five hours, until it is boiled down to 
about two cups of broth. It will have 
a rich, strong color when carefully 
strained and seasoned with a little salt 
and pepper and can be taken by the 
most delicate stomachs. 

Mutton Broth. 

Soupe de Mouton 

S Pounds of the Neck of the Mutton. 

4 Quarts of Cold Water. % Cup of Rice. 

1 Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 
2 Large Turnips. Salt ana Pepper to 

Taste. 

Wash the neck of the mutton, or 
wipe it with a damp towel, and put it 
into the kettl« with the cold water. 
Let it come to a slow boil and skim 
carefully. Cover well and let it sim- 
mer for about four hours. Then re- 
move from the stove and pour into 
an earthen vessel to cool. When cold, 
remove all the fat from the surface, 
or, better still, remove all the fat be- 
fore boiling. Return to the kettle and 
add the rice, the sliced turnip and 
the bay leaf, and season to taste, or 
prepare as in Oxtail Soup. 

Chicken Consonun^. 

CofiMommi de VolaUlc 

1 Large' Chicken Cut in Pieces. 

1 Onion. 3 Quarts of Cold Water. 

1 Small Stalk of Celery. 

1 Carrot. 1 Turnip. 

Salt and Pepper. 

Put the chicken into the salt and 
water and let it simmer gently until 
the scum begins to rise; then skim. 
Add the other ingredients. Boil gently 
for two hours, and serve with slices 
of toast. The chicken left over will 
serve to make croquettes or chicken 
salad. 

Golden Consomm^. 

Con8omm6 Dor^ 

1 Fine Chicken. 1 Good Soup Bone*. 

1 Slice of Fine Ham. 

1 Gallon of Water. 

2 Eggs, whites and sheila. 

2 Sprigs of Parsley. 

Half Each of Small Parsnip, Carrot 
and Head of Celery. * 

1 Onion. 3 Cloves. Salt and Pepper. 

Have the fowl thbroughly cleaned, 

and put the chicken, beef and ham 

into a kettle of cold water of the 

quantity lAentioned above, and boil 

slowly for five hours, being careful 

to keep the pot well covered. Chop 

the onion and vegetables and fry them 

in a little butter and add all the sea- 



10 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



soiling's to the soup. Boil two hours 
lonsrer» and set away over night in an 
ice box. The next day remove all the 
fat; from the top take out the jelly, 
leaving the thickest part of the sedi- 
ment which is good to put into a thick 
soup. Mix in the shells and the whites 
of eggs and boil quickly for about ten 
minutes. Then set it on the hearth 
to settle. Pour the soup through a 
thin bag" without squeezing; if it does 
not come out perfectly clear, pass it 
through again. It should then be a 
beautiful golden broyv-n color. Only 
the brightest and cleanest of kettles 
should be used, and the sieve should 
be scalded each time to keep the 
particles from washing back into the 
soup. This is a delightful soup for 
luncheons and dinner parties. It may 
be garnished according to taste, serv- 
ing with "CroOtons.'* or Quenelles. 

Consomme With Poached Eggs. 

Contomm^ aux Oeuf» Pochfa 

6 Eggs. 

3 Quarts of Consommd or Bouillon. 

Break the eggs and drop them one 
by one into boilingr salted -water being 
careful not to allow the water to boil 
when once the eggs are in it; bxit have 
the frying pan, which is always best 
for poaching . eggs, over a low 
Are, and cook slowly until the eggs 
are firm. When firm carefully re- 
move with a spoon or perforated 
skimmer, the latter being best, and 
lay in cold water for a moment, until 
the edges are trimmed evenly. The 
boiling water tends to make the edges 
ragged and eggs served in this sloven- 
ly manner are not tempting. Trans- 
fer to the tureen and pour the boiling 
soup very gently Into the tureen and 
serve. One egg and about a half-pint 
of broth should be allowed to each 
person. 

Queen Soup. 

Pot age d la Heine 

1 Chicken. M Pound of Rice. 

»^ Pint of Cream. 

14 Blade of Mace. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

4 Sprigs of Parsley. 

2 Quarts of White Veal Broth. 

Salt and Pepper. 

Take a fine large chicken, clean It 
and put it whole Into a pot contain- 
ing about five quarters of water. Add 
chopped onion, thyme, bay leaf, one 
carrot, a small bunch of celery, and 
one cup of rice. Let the chicken sim- 
mer well for about four hours, and, 
when well cooked, take out the chick- 



en from the broth. Cut off the white 
meat and cut it into pieces about the 
size of dice. Then strain the broth, 
mashing: the rice well. Make a puree 
by taking another saucepan, putting 
in one tablespoonful of butter and one 
of flour, letting it melt together with- 
out browning. Moisten this well with 
the soup and a glass of milk, and sea- 
son with salt and pepper and one- 
quarter of a errated nutmeg, and add 
to the broth. Then add the chicken, 
which has been cut up. Put in the 
tureen little dice of croQtons or bread 
fried in butter. Pour the soup over 
and serve hot. The remainder of the 
chicken can be used to make Chicken 
Croquettes, Chicken Salad, etc. 

Giblct Soup. 

Potage a I'Eaaence de Oiaier 

1 Hard-Boiled Tolk for Each Person. 

2 Cups of Chicken Broth. 

3 Quarts of Boiling Water or Broth. 

Parsley. 

1 Onion, Carrot and H Turnip, Chopped. 

Juice of 1 Lemon. 

1 Leaf each of Sage and Bay. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour and 1 of 

Butter. 

The Giblets, Heart, Liver, etc., of Two 

Turkeys or Four Chickens. 

Chop the onion fine and put it into 
the stewpan with the butter; let It 
brown, and then add the chopped 
vegetables, whole giblets, etc.; fry un- 
til nicely browned, but do not let it 
burn. Then slit the giblets -with a 
knife, that the Juices may run out in 
boiling, and put all into the soup ket- 
tle, with pepper, salt, sage, parsley 
and the three quarts of consomme or 
boiling water. Add bones or lean 
meat, cooked or raw, that are left, 
preferably the meat of the chicken, 
and let all simmer for five hours. 
Then strain. Mash one liver fine and 
add it to the broth; season with Cay- 
enne pepper, lemon Juice to taste. Boil 
three minutes, and have in the tureen 
one hard-boiled yolk of an egg* for 
each person. Pour the soup over them 
and serve hot. 

Rabbit Soup. 

Potage de Lapin 

2 Young Rabbits 

2 Quarts of Cold Water. 1 Onion. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Blade of Mace. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 

H Cup of Rice. 

Cayenne Pepper, % Pod. Salt to the 

Taste. 

This is a famous Creole soup. The 
rabbits should be well skinned and 



TH£ PICAYUNE CREOIjE COOK BOOK 



11 



singed. Wash thoroughly in warm 
water; this is very important. Then 
cut the meat into small pieces and 
put into the soup pot, with the quan- 
tity of water given. Chop the onion, 
mace and bay leaf and add. Place on 
a very moderate fire, and let it simmer 
gently until the meat has grown very 
tender. This will require about two 
hours or less. Add the salt, pepper 
and rice, and simmer for an hour 
longer. Pour into the tureen over 
C rontons and serve. 

Pepper Pot. 

Pot de Poivrea 

1 Pound of Plain Tripe. 2 Potatoes. 

1 Pound of Honeycomb Trip£. 

Sprig of Parsley. 1 Knuckle of Veal. 

3 Quarts of Cold Water. 

1 Herb Bouquet. 1 Onion. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Flour. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Cayenne to Suit the Taste. 

Salt and Pepper. 

The knuckle of the veal is best for 
this. Wash and put into the soup 



kettle, covering with water, and bring 
it to a slow boil. Carefully skim off 
the scum. Let it simmer gently for 
three hours. The tripe should be pre- 
pared the day before. Wash it thor- 
oughly in cold water and boil for 
about seven hours. Put away in the 
ice box till needed. Chop the parsley 
and herbs fine and one-half of the red 
pepper pod, and add to the boiling 
knuckle of veal, and also the pota- 
toes, which have been cut into dice. 
Cut up the tripe into pieces of about 
one inch square. Take out the knuckle 
of veal and cut up meat into small 
pieces, and add all, with the tripe, 
to the soup. At the boiling point, 
season with salt and pepper. 

Squirrel Soup. 

Potagc dPEcureuil 

Wlhen squirrels are used the gray 
Louisiana squirrel is best. Venison 
may be substituted for squirrels. Pre- 
pare as for Rabbit Soup. 



CHAPTER IV 




Soupca de Poiaaona 



Under this heading come some of 
the most delightful Creole soups, such 
as Green Turtle Soup, Oyster Soup, 
Crawfish Bisque, etc. These not only 
serve as fast-day soups, but are con- 
sidered elegant introductions to the 
most recherche feast. 



JBlsli Soup. 

BouUlon de Poisaon 

6 Slices of Pish of Almost Any Variety. 

4 Onions, Chopped Fine. 

6 Tomatoes, Chopped Fine. 

1 Herb Bouquet. Sprig of Parsley. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Salad Oil. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

3% Pints of Water. 

Chop the onions and fry them in 
the salad oil. Cut the toma;toes fine, 
add onions, and put in all the other 
ingredients, except the fish, adding the 
flour to make a good roux. When 
brown add the water, and, after it 



has boiled about a half hour, add 
the slices of fish. When they are firm 
remove the herb bouquet, add Cay- 
enne pepper and salt and pepper to 
taste, and serve the fish soup in a 
tureen, pouring it over crusts of dried 
toast. 

Green Turtle Soup. 

Soupe d la Tortue 

2 Pounds of Turtle Meat, or a 2-Pound 

Turtle. 

2 Fine Large Onions. 6 Cloves. 

1 Square Inch of Ham. 6 Allspice. 

2 Cloves of Garlic. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

% of a 'Small Lemon. 2 Hard-Boiled 

Eggs. 

Parsley, Thyme* Bay Leaf. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

The Creoles pride themselves upon 
their famous "Soupe k la Tortue,*' and 
justify the old saying that only a good 
Creole cook knows how to make a 
good Turtle Soup, as is testified to 



12 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



by epicurean visitors from every coun- 
try. 

The following: is one of the simplest 
and best ways of makingr Turtle Soup 
— a recipe that may always be relied 
upon and one that has been used from 
generation to generation in the most 
aristocatic Creole homes: 

In making Turtle Soup, Green Tur- 
tle is always the best for this purpose. 
Select two pounds of Green Turtle 
meat, If the turtle is not bought whole. 
This amount will make a soup for 
six persons. Increase proportionately. 
If the turtle is bought whole, first cut 
off the head. To do this properly, the 
turtle should be hung with the head 
downwards, and a very sharp knife 
should be used to cut off the head as 
close as possible. To remove the 
shells, first separate the upper from 
the lower shell, al'ways being exceed- 
ingly careful to avoid touching the gall 
bladder, which Is very large. If it 
is penetrated, the contents running 
over the turtle meat would render it 
utterly unfit for use. 

Clean the turtle and the entrails 
by cutting open and washing thor- 
oughly in cold water. Then put the 
meat and entrails into a saucepan 
and parboil about ten minutes. Be 
careful to save this stock of water. 
Chop an onion very fine, and the ham 
into very fine pieces. Cut the turtle 
meat into one-inch pieces, mash the 
cloves and the allspice very fine and 
chop the thyme and bay leaf. Brown 
the onions in a tablespoonful of butter 
or lard, and add immediately the tur- 
tle meat. Brown together slightly, 
and after ten minutes add the 
chopped ham. Let this continue 
browning and then add two cloves of 
garlic, chopped fine, and the thyme, 
bay leaf (minced fine), cloves and all- 
.spice (ground), all mixed together 
with great care. Stir this almost 
constantly to prevent burning and 
add two tablespoonfuls of fiour 
that has been well rubbed, stirring 
constantly all the time. Then dissolve 
the meat with the water in which the 
turtle was parboiled, adding gradually 
until a certain consistency is reached. 
About three quarts of water will be 
the required amount. Season this 
with salt, black pepper and Cayenne 
to taste, and boil slowly for fully an 
hour, stirring almost constantly. After 
cooking one hour taste, and if not 
seasoned sufiiciently, season again and 



taste. Then chop one-quarter of a 
small lemon, and put it in the soup. 
Let it continue to cook, and when "well 
done — that is, when no blood exudes 
from the turtle after sticking it with 
a fork — pour into the tureen. Add 
the whites and yolks of two hard- 
boiled eggs, chopped fine, and tli«» 
soup is ready to serve. This is a dlsli 
fit for a king and is most highly rec- 
ommended as a genuine Creole Tur- 
tle Soup. 

Turtle Soup No. 2 

Soupe d la Tortue 

2 Pounds of Turtle Meat. 

% Tablespoonful of Lard. 

yk Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

2 Tomatoes. 1 Large Onion. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 2 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Square Inch of Ham. 

1 Dozen Cloves Tied in Muslin. 

6 Allspice Mashed Fine. 

3 Quarts of Water. 2 Hard- Boiled Eggs 

1 Glass of Grape Juice. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

Clean the turtle and entrails by cut- 
ling open the latter and washing thor- 
oughly in cold water. Then put the 
meat and entrails into a saucepan and 
parboil them for ten minutes. Care- 
fully save this stock of water. Chop 
the onion very fine, and cut the ham 
into very fine pieces. Cut the turtle 
meat into one-inch pieces; mash the 
allspice very fine, and mince the pars- 
ley, thyme and bay leaf. Then brown 
the onions in the lard and butter 
mixed, and almost immediately add 
the turtle meat. Brown together for 
ten minutes and add the finely 
chopped ham. As this continues to 
brown put in the cloves of garlic 
(minced fine), the thyme and bay leaf 
and the ground allspice. Mix alto- 
gether, stirring almost constantly to 
prevent burning. Then add the well- 
rubbed tablespoonfuls of fibur, stir- 
ring constantly. Scald and skin the 
tomatoes and chop them fine, and add 
to the turtle meat. When well 
browned, pour over three quarts of 
the water in which the turtle was 
parboiled, season with salt and pep- 
per and Cayenne to taste, and let it 
boil slowly for fully an hour, stirring 
frequently. After one hour taste the 
soup, and, if not suflficiently seasoned, 
add seasoning of salt, pepper and 
Cayenne again, according to taste. Let 
it cook for an hour longer and then 
take olT the stove if the turtle is thor- 
oughly done. This may be ascertained 



THE PICAYT.'NE GREOIjE COOK BOOK 



13 



by sticking it with a fork. If no blood 
exudes, the soup is ready to serve. 
Take ofT the stove and strain through 
a colander into the tureen. Add the 
whites and yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs chopped fine, and one glass of 
grape Juice. Slice a lemon fine and 
add to the soup and serve hot. 

How to Serve Turtle Soup 

Great care should be taken in serv- 
ing the soup. It should be borne In 
mind that boiling the soup a seconrt 
time, or warming it over, deprives It 
of much of its delicious flavor. To 
avoid this, fill two tureens with boil- 
ing water; let them stand tu few 
minutes, then dry the inside thor- 
oughly and place the tureens in a 
•*bainmarie," or a hot-water bath. Fill 
the tureens with the soup and cover 
tightly. Bring them to the table as 
needed, throwing in. just before serv- 
ing, some dainty slices of lemon. If 
the meat is served, use only the most 
delicate portions. 

Mock Eggs fop Turtle Soup. 

Should the turtle possess no eggs, 
the following method of making 
"mock eggs" is often used: Break and 
beat thoroughly one fresh egg, then 
take the yolks of three hard-boiled 
eggs and rub them into a flne paste 
with about a teaspoonf ul of butter. Mix 
this with the raw egg and roll into 
pellets of the identical size and shape 
of the turtle eggs, let them lie in boil- 
ing water about two minutes, and 
then drop into the soup. 

Terrapin Soup 

8oupe d la Tortue 

1 Two-Pound Diamond-Back Terrapin. 

2 Fine Large Onions. 6 Cloves. 

1 Square Inch of Ham. 6 Allspice. 

% of a Small Lemon. 2 Hard-Boiled 

Gggs. 

1 Glass of Grape Juice. 

Parsley, Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

Salt, Peper and Cayenne to Taste. 

The diamond-back terrapin is the 
best and the females make the finest 
and daintiest food, the males being 
not only of inferior size, but of far 
less delicate flavor. Terrapins must 
always be bought alive. They are in 
season from November till March, and 
like all other flsh, should not be eaten 
out of season. 

To make the soup, clean the terra- 
pin as you would a turtle. Then place 



in a kettle and boil till tender. Take 
out and cut into small pieces, saving 
the water. Proceed as for Turtle 
Soup. When it boils up take from the 
Are, add a grated nutmeg, a glass of 
grape Juice, and serve. Garnish with 
green pickle and delicate slices of 
fried toast. 

Crawfish Bisque 

Potage d la Bisque a^^crevUMc. 

8 Dozen Fine Large Crawflsh. 

3 Onions. 1 Carrot. 1 Bunch of Celery. 

2 Sprigs of Thyme. 2 Bay Leaves. 

4 Sprigs of Parsley. 6 Cloves. 

i Blades of Mace. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Quarts of Oyster Liquor. 

A. Dash of Cayenne. 1 Seedless Cayenne 

Pod. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Take about eight dozen flne, large 
crawflsh and wash thoroughly, being 
careful to cleanse off every particle 
of dust or sand. Set to boil in about 
a gallon of water. When boiled, take 
the flsh out of the water; save the 
water. Pick out two dozen of the 
largest crawflsh; remove the inside 
of the tails and save the heads, cleans- 
ing them of every particle of meat. 
Set this meat to one side with the 
shells of the head. Pick the meat 
from the rest of the crawflsh, saving 
all the shells. Take one large onion, 
a carrot, a bunch of celery, a sprig 
of thyme, one bay leaf, three sprigs 
of parsley, six cloves and two blades 
of mace, one clove of garlic; chop 
all very flne and put into the pot of 
water in which the crawflsh were 
boiled. Add all the picked meat, ex- 
cept the reserved tails, and all the 
shells of the bodies and heads, except 
the reserved heads. Add one cup of 
rice and let it all boil till the mixture 
becomes thick and mushy. When it is 
well cooked, take it off the flre and 
mash the shells thoroughly, and the 
meat also, and strain all through a 
sieve. Take about a tablespoonful of 
butter and two quarts of oyster liquor 
and add this to the soup, seasoning 
to taste with Cayenne, salt and black 
pepper. Set to boil slowly. In the 
meantime, take the reserved crawflsh 
meat and make a stufllng as follows 
for the reserve heads: Chop an onion 
very flne and let it brown in a table - 
spoonful of butter. Squeeze thor- 
oughly a cup of bread wet with water. 
When well squeezed, mix with a little 
milk, suflicient to make a paste, sea- 
son to taste and mix with the well- 



14 



TH£ PICAYUNE CREOIiE CXX>K BOOK 



seasoned crawfish meat. Chop an- 
other onion and put in melted butter, 
and add the crawfish stuffing:, letting 
all fry about ten minutes, adding, in 
the meantime, a finely chopped sprig 
each of thyme and parsley and a bay 
leaf, and mixing thoroughly. Take off 
the fire and stuff the reserved heads 
of crawfish. Put on every stuffed head 
a dot of butter, and set in the oven 
and bake ten minutes. Place the 
stuffed heads in the tureen and pour 
the soup over. Serve hot with Crou- 
tons of buttered toast, passing the lat- 
ter in a separate dish. 

Crawfish Soup 

Potage d'£creriB8e». 

50 Fine, L^rge Crawfish. 
1% Pounds of a Filet of Veal. 
1 Slice of Ham. 
1 Herb Bouquet. % Half Can of Mush- 
rooms. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 
2 Carrots. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Clove of Garlic. 1 Large Onion. 
1 Parsnip. 
1 Dozen Almonds. 1 Dozen Allspice. 
4 Shallots. 6 Tomatoes or a Half Can. 

CroOtons. 

Wash the crawfish thoroughly over 
and over again to take a-way every 
particle of dirt. Then boil them In 
plain water. Save the water. Take 
out the crawfish and take off all the 
shells, putting the meat aside. Pound 
the shells fine; pound one dozen al- 
monds fine and mix thoroughly with 
the meat of the crawfish, and pound 
this in a mortar. In the meanwhile 
take one pound and a half of a filet 
of veal and a slice of ham and cut 
in small pieces. Cut up the onion, 
carrots and parsnips. Put one table- 
spoonful of lard in a kettle, and when 
it begins to heat add the herb bou~ 
quet (sweet basil, parsley, bay leaf), 
the onions, parsnip, shallots, clove of 
garlic, chopped fine; as these brown 
add the veal and ham. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of flour and butter 
rubbed, and the mushrooms, chopped 
finely. L#et these simmer for about 
five minutes and then add the toma- 
toes, allspice and cloves. After ten 
minutes, when the mixture is well 
browned, add the pounded crawfish 
shells and the pounded meat and al- 
monds. Pour over all the water from 
the boiled crawfish and set it back 
on the stove and let it simmer for 
about two hours. Skim off all the 
grease when near time for serving. 
Then strain through a sieve and serve 



with Crodtons of toast, cut In slices, 
placed in the bottom of the tureen. 

On fast days, instead of the veal a.nd 
ham, substitute butter and lard, mak- 
ing a Roux (see recipe), and moisten- 
ing a little with the stock of the craw- 
fish. Then proceed as above. 

Rice or CroQton Soup is rendered 
delicious by introducing a small quan- 
tity of crawfish broth. This broth 
is also used extensively by the Cre- 
oles in seasoning ragoOts on fast 
days, and hot pies, such as pAtSs de 
foies gras; also such entremets as 
cauliflower, artichokes, etc. The chief 
essential In making the broth is to 
have it of the right consistency, and 
to skim carefully off all the grease 
before straining. Good Judgment must 
be the guide of the cook in seeking 
the proper consistency. 

Oyster Soap 

Boupe auw Huitrea 

4 Dozen Large. Fresh Oysters. 

1 Quart of Rich Milk. 

The Oyster Liquor. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley, Chopped Fine. 

1 Dozen Pepper Corns. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

In purchasing the oysters always bp 
careful to make the vendor add the 
oyster Juice when intended for soup. 
Drain the oysters through a -colander. 
Strain the liquor, and put it into a 
soup kettle, adding the chopped pars- 
ley and the pepper corns. Let it come 
to a boil. In the meantime boil the 
milk separately in a saucepan, as boil- 
ing the milk and oyster Juice together 
is likely to curdle the milk. When 
the milk comes to a boil, add to the 
oyster Juice and put in the tablespoon- 
ful of butter. Stir the soup con- 
stantly at this point, throwing in the 
oysters and continuing to stir until 
it comes to a boil again. Under no 
circumstances allow the oysters to 
boil, as this destroys their flavor and 
makes them tough and indigestible. 
But one must be also careful to see 
that they are steamed through and 
through, and then they are. delightful 
and palatable. The ruffling of the 
edges indicates the right condition; at 
this point the soup must be served 
Immediately. Serve with sliced lemon 
and oyster or water crackers. Made 
according to the above formula, oyster 
soup Is a most delightful dish and 
can be eaten and relished by the most 
delicate stomachs. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



15 



Oyster Soup Without MUk 

Soupe auw Huitres d la Creole 
The Creoles have another delightful 
method of preparing oyster soup, a 
method evolved by the old negro 
cooks of ante-bellum days, and still 
in vogue in the old families. It is a 
soup made without milk, and is pre- 
pared as follows: Take 

4 Dozen Bayou Cook Oysters. 

The Oyster Liquor. 

1 Large Onion. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Sifted Flour. 

4 Sprigs of Parsley. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 
1 Quart of Boiling Water. 

Put the tablespoonful of lard into 
the soup kettle. Have ready one onion, 
some parsley, chopped very fine. When 
the lard is hot, stir in two tablespoon- 
fuls of sifted flour, and make a Brown 
Roux (see recipe), stirring constantly 
to prevent burning. When the Roux 
is of a light brown color add the 
chopped onions and parsley, continu- 
ing to stir, being exceedingly careful 
to avoid the slightest burning. Strain 
the oyster Juice of about four dozen 
oysters; mix with about a quart of 
boiling water and pour into the 
Roux. When it shows signs of com- 
ing to a boil, add the oysters and 
a teaspoonful of butter. At the boil- 



ing point remove from the stove and 
serve with oyster soda crackers or 
dry toast, the oyster crackers being 
always preferable. 



Crab Soup 

Potage de Crahes 

1 Dozen Fine Crabs. 6 Ripe Tomatoes. 

Sprig of Thyme. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 of Sweet Marjoram. 

1 Large Onion. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Teaspoonful of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls (level) of Lard. 

1 Lemon. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne. 

Cleanse the crabs thoroughly and 
extract all the meat from the body 
and claws; scald and skin the toma- 
toes, ^nd squeeze the pulp from the 
seeds and Juice; chop very fine. Pour 
boiling water over the seed and Juice 
and strain. Chop the onion and garlic 
and stew with the tablespoonful of 
butter and lard. As they begin to 
brown add the tomatoes, cover, and 
after simmering a few minutes, add 
the well-seasoned meat of the crab. 
Sift over this some grated bread or 
crackers and season with Cayenne, 
sweet marjoram and thyme. Pour in 
tomato water and add about a quart 
or more of water, and let it boil mod- 
erately for about an hour Add the 
Juice of two lemons and 3erve. 



CHAPTER V 



LENTEl^^OUPS 




Potagea Maigres 



The Creoles excel in the preparation 
of soups without meat, or fast-day 
soups, as they are called. The in- 
genuity of the cooks from generation 
to generation has been taxed in the 
preparation of these soup's, which are 
in great vogue during the Lenten sea- 
son. But many of them, such as 
"Cream of Asparagus Soup," "Cream 
of Celery Soup," have entered into the 
daily life of the city, and, like tho 
famous Creole Guimbos, are held as 
dainty and elegant introductions to 
the most distinguished feasts. 



Fast-Day Broth 



Bouillon Maigre 

6 Fine Carrots. 6 Large White Onions. 

6 Turnips. 
^ Pound of Beans or Dried Split Peas. 
1 Small Head of Cabbage. 1 Parsnip. 
1 Stalk of Celery. 
4 Sprigs of Parsley. 
V4 Pound of Butter, or 1 Large Table- 
spoonful of Lard. 
3 Quarts of Water. 
1 Red Pepper Pod, Without the Seed. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Peel and cut into fine, thin slices 
th<:. carrots, turnips and parsnips; cut 
and chop fine the cabbage, celery and 



16 



THE PICAYUNE CKEOISE COOK BOOK 



onions, put all in a saucepan and add 
one glass of water, and a quarter of 
a pound of butter, using the butter 
preferably to the lard; add the pars- 
ley, chopped very fine. Let all boil 
till the water has evaporated, and 
then add one pint of red or white 
beans or split peas, which have been 
soaked overnight; add three quarts 
of water and the pepper pod, and let 
all simmer well for three hours. Then 
if the beans are perfectly tender at 
this point, drain or press through a 
colander; return to the flre and add 
the seasonings. Let all boil up once 
and then serve with CroQtons. Stale 
bread may be utilized in preparing the 
Crofltons. 

A Winter Fast-Day Soup 

Potage Maigre d*Hiver 
1 Quart of Dried Peas. 

3 Quarts of Water. 

1 Lettuce Head Sliced. 

1 Head of Celery. 

1 Carrot. 

2 Turnips. 2 Large Onions. 

Handful of Spinach. 

Sprig Each of Mint, Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 
A Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Ste,w all the vegetables, except tho 
lettuce, together, after having chopped 
fine, until they are perfectly soft. Then 
return to the fire with the chopped 
lettuce, butter and sugar. Boil quickly 
about twenty minutes, and serve with 
CroOtons. 



Vegetable Soup Without Meat 

Pur^e de Legumes 

1 Sweet Potato. 

1 Bunch of Celery Leaves. 

1 Turnip. 1 Parsnip. 
1 Carrot. 
" 1 Bay Leaf. 2 Onions. 

Sprig of Parsley and Thyme. 
1 Irish Potato. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Large Tablesponful of Butter. 

3% Quarts of Cold Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Cut the vegetables into dice and 
boil until thoroughly tender in about 
three and a half quarts of water; this 
will require about two hours. Then 
press the whole through a sieve; add 
the remaining water and bring to a 
boil. Then add the butter, rubbed 
smooth with the flour in a little rich 
cream, or a little of the hot soup. 
A gill of cream or milk added Just 
before serving increases the flavor. 
Boil and stir about t^-o or three min- 
utes more and serve. 



Lentil Soup 

Potage d la Puric de Leniillct 

1 Pint of Lentils. 2 Quarts of Water. 

1 Onion. 1 Small Bunch of Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter or Lard. 

1 Pod of Red Pepper, without the Seeds. 

1 Stalk of Celery^ Chopped Fine. 

Salt and Pepper to Ta^te. 

Wash the lentils, and, if dried, soak 
them over night. Drain off the water 
and put them in a saucepan with 
the cold water. Allow them to come 
gradually to a boil. Then set them 
back on the stove and let them sim- 
mer gently for about two hours. Melt 
the butter in the saucepan and fry 
in it the minced onion, celery, pars- 
ley, thyme and bay leaf, and let these 
brown; then add them to the lentils; 
boil about an hour longer, and, if par- 
ticularly tender, press all through a 
colander. Return to the fire and add 
the seasonings. Let them boil up 
once and serve with Crodtons. 

Red Bean Soap 

Purie d la Condi 

1 Pint of Red Beans. 

2 Quarts of Cold Water. 

1 Minced Onion. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

Bunch of Parsley. Sprig of Thyme. 

Salt and Pepper. 

Wash the beans and soak them over 
night in lukewarm water. Drain and 
put them in a saucepan with the cold 
water. Allow them to come gradually 
to a boil; then set them back, and let 
them simmer gently for about two 
hours. Melt the butter in a saucepan 
and fry in it the onion, parsley, thyme 
and bay leaf until brown. Add these 
to the beans and boil about an hour 
and a half longer. If the beans are 
perfectly tender at this point, press 
the whole through a colander. Return 
to the fire, and add the seasonings. 
Let them boil up once and serve with 
the Crotitons. Some think that the 
flavor is enhanced by beating up an 
egg in the tureen and pouring the 
boiling soup gradually over it, stir- 
ring constantly. 

White Bean Soup 

' Potage d la Pur6e d'HaricotB 

1 Pint of White Beans. 

2 Quarts of Cold Water. 

1 Minced Onion. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 

1 Bay Leaf. Bunch of Parsley. 

Sprig of Thyme. Salt and Pepper. 

Wash the beans and soak them over 
night in lukewarm water. Drain and 



THE PIGATUXE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



17 



put them in a saucepan with the cold 
water. Allow them to come gradually 
to a boil; then set them back and let 
them simmer gently for about two 
hour& Melt the butter in a saucepan 
and fry in it the onion, parsley, thyme 
and bay leaf until brown. Add these 
to the beans and boil about an hour 
and a half longer. If the beans are 
perfectly tender at this point, press 
the whole through a colander. Re- 
turn to the fire and add the season- 
ings. Let them boil up once and then 
serve with the Crodtons. As in Red 
Bean Soup, a . beaten egg may be 
added ivhen about to pour into the 
tureen. First beat up the egg and 
pour the boiling soup gradually over, 
stirring all the while. 

Dried or Split Pea Soup 

Potage d la Pur€e de Poia Sees 

1 Pint of Dried or Split Peas. 

1 Quart of Boiling Water. 

1 Small Bunch of Celery. 

1 Bunch of Parsley. 

1 Quart of Good Milk or Cream. 

2 Onions. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Soak the peas overnight, after 
washing them in cold water and re- 
jecting all that float. In the morn- 
ing drain, off the water and cover the 
peas again with one quart of boiling 
water, setting them back on the stove 
and letting them cook slowly until 
tender. Cut up the onion and parsley 
and celery into fine pieces and add 
to the boiling peas. T^en perfectly 
tender remove from .the stove and 
press through a sieve or colander and 
add the salt and pepper. Then return 
the soup to the fire and let it boil up 
once; Just before serving add the rich 
cream or milk, stirring well. The soup 
should be served with CroQtons or 
Oysrter Crackers. White Bean Soup 
may be made in exactly the same 
manner. When not intended for fast 
days, the addition of a ham bone 
adds greatly to the flavor. 

Pur^ of Green Peas 

Pur6e de Poi8 Vertg 

1 Quart of Young Green Peas. 

Bunch of Parsley. 2 Young Onions 

2 Quarts of Good Milk or Broth. 

Pepper and Salt. 

Cut the onions and parsley fine, and 
boil with the peas until all are quite 
tender, in boiling water, for about a 
half hour. Then drain. Rub all 
through a sieve or colander, and add 



them to the boiling broth or milk. Do 
not allow this to boil after adding the 
peas. Season and serve with dainty 
Crofltons. To keep hot, stand the soup 
in a "bainmarie," or kettle or boiling 
water. 

Sorrel Soup 

Potage d la "Bonne Femmc/* ou 8oupe a 

VOseUle 

A Small Bunch of Fresh Sorrel. 

3 Quarts of Boiling Water. 

1 Cup of Cream or Rich Milk. 

1 Cup of Mashed Potatoes. 

i Eggs. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

3 Leaves of Lettuce. 1 Onion. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. A Pinch of 

Nutmeg. 
Pepper and Salt to Taste. 

Wash the leaves and stem them, 
the entire length of the leaf. Then 
chop them fine until you have a quan- 
tity equal to a pint or two teacupfuls. 
Chop the other vegetables and put 
these and the sorrel into a saucepan 
with the butter: cover and let them 
stew gently for ten minutes, and then 
add the flour, which has been well 
mixed with a little water. Pour 
gradually, stirring always, into the 
three quarts of boiling water. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs and mix with a little 
cream or milk in a tureen. Rub the 
rest of the cream or milk smooth with 
the mashed potato and put into the 
soup; add the seasonings. Prepare 
toast in the form of dice, rubbing 
them first with the raw onion, and 
pour some of the boiling soup over 
the eggs in the tureen and mix very 
carefully. Put in the pieces of toast, 
and then add the remainder of the 
soup. Cover and stand five minutes 
in a warm oven, and serve hot 



Potato Soup 

Potage Parmentier 

8 Potatoes. 2 Onions, Cut Fine. 

1 Cup of Cream or Rich Milk. 

1 Pinch of Grated Nutmeg. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Pepper and Salt. 

After washing and peeling the pota- 
toes, put them into a saucepan with 
the onions and add about two quarts 
of cold water. Bring to a boil. After 
allowing to cook about forty minutes, 
if the vegetables are then very tender, 
mash and pass all through a sieve, 
and, returning to the fire, add the 
seasoning and butter. Brin& to a 
boil, and add the cream and a beaten 
egg, serving immediately with Crou- 
tons. 



18 



THE picatunb: ckeoue cook book 



Carrot Soup 

Potage Crecy 

4 Larffe Carrots (the redder the better). 
2 Largre Onions, Cut Fine. 

1 Quart of New Milk. 1 Turnip. 

1 Teaspoon of Corn Starch. 

2 Sticks of Celery. 1 Bay Leaf. 
Sprlgr of Thyme. Sprlsr of Parsley. 

3 Cloves. 

1 Large Teaspoon ful of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper and Sugrar to Taste. 

Wash the vegetables thoroughly, 
cutting them fine and boiling until 
tender in three pints of water. When 
very soft, mash them and press 
through a sieve. The carrots must be 
, mashed very fine. Then return to 
the tire, and, adding about two quarts 
of boiling water, cover and simmer 
gently for a while, adding one tea- 
spoonful of corn starch that has been 
blended 'well with a little milk. Add 
the boiling milk and cook for about 
two minutes more, and serve with 
Croutons. 

Lettuce Soup 

Potage de La4tue§ 

1 Large Head of Lettuce. 

1 Spoon of French Vinegar. 1 Egg. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 GUI of 

Cream. 

1 TcAspoonful of Flour. 

Dices of Stale Bread. 1 Pinch of Sugar. 

3 Quarts of Broth. 

Prepare a good broth and cook till 
it is reduced to three pints; this will 
serve six persons. Chop the lettuce 
fine and stew it with a tablespoonful 
of butter, adding the pinch of sugar 
and one spoon of French vinegar. 
Keep stirring constantly, so that it 
will not burn. Then add the flour 
(which has been rolled smoothly in 
butter), the pepper and salt, throw in 
a dash of Cayenne pepper. Break in 
the egg and stir thoroughly. Then 
pour on the broth. Place the dice of 
bread in the tureen, and add the gill 
of cream to the soup before pouring 
over the bread. 



Okra Soup 

Potage de F€vi 

2 Pints of Okra, or Fifty Counted. 
6 Fresh Tomatoes. 2 Onions Chopped 

Fine. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

2 Sprigs of Thyme. 1 Bay Leaf. 

3 Quarts of Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A Red Pepper Pod, Without the Seed. 

Wash and stem the okra and then 
slice it very fine. Chop the tomatoes 
fine, being careful to preserve the 



juice. Chop the onions fine and fry 
them in the butter. Then add the 
chopped thyme, bay leaf, parsley and 
tomatoes and the pepper pod, and, 
after letting it stew about five min- 
utes, add the okra, stirring constantly, 
as it is apt to burn quickly. When 
well browned, add the juice of the 
tomatoes. Then add the hot water, 
and set on the back of the stove and 
let it simmer well for about an hour 
and a half. Season to taste and serve 
hot, with Crodtons. 

Okra must be cooked in a porcelain- 
Hned pot, as iron or other metal tends 
to blacken it. 



Winter Okra Soup 

Potage F€vi d'Hiver 

1 Can of Good New Orleans Okra. 

1 Can of Tomatoes. 2 Onions, Chopped 

Fine. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Dozen Oysters. 3 Tablespoonfuls of 

Rice. 
A Red Pepper Pod, Without the Seed. 

Chop the onions flne and fry them 
in the butter. Wash the rice well; 
then stew it with the onions, tomatoes 
and pepper in about three quarts 
of water and one pint of oyster water 
for about three hours, stirring fre- 
quehtly. Ten minutes before serving 
add the okra and let It come to a boil. 
Then drop in the oysters. Boil up 
once and serve. 



Onion Soup 

Potage d VOignon 

3 Large Onions, Sliced Very Thin or 

Chopped. 

% Cup of Flour. 

1 Large Spoon of Butter. 

1 Quart of Milk. 

2 Large Potatoes. Mashed Fine. 

Dice of Bread or Toast. 

Salt and Pepper. 

Fry the onions in the butter, until 
reddish brown. Then add the flour 
and stir until browned, gently; do not 
burn. Put the boiling water in gradu- 
ally, stirring perfectly smooth, and 
adding the salt and pepper; mix well 
and boll one minute. Before serv- 
ing, add the milk warmed, and 
rubbed with mashed potatoes until 
they are a smooth paste. Simmer a 
few moments. Have the pieces of 
toast ready in the tureen and pour in 
the hot soup. A puree of onions is 
made by pressing the Ingredients 
through a sieve and returning to the 
fire for a few moments. Serve hot. 



THB picayune: CREX>IiE: COOK BOOK 



19 



Cream of Onion Soup 

Pur6e d*Oiffnona 

6 Onions. 1^ Ounces of Butter. 

IH Pints of Cream. 2 Ounces of Flour. 

2 Pints of Boiling Water. 

Pepper. Nutmegr. 

Peel the onions and boll in salted 
water until very tender; then drain 
and dry "well with a cloth; put them 
on the Are in a saucepan, with one 
ounce of butter; add the other in- 
gredients, except the remainingr half 
ounce of butter. When the soup comes 
to a boil, press through the sieve, 
and return to the fire; add the re- 
mainder of the butter and serve. 



Cream of Celery Soup 

Potagc d Ja Cr^me de C^leri 

Celery Stalks. 

2 Quarts of Milk or Cream. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Pint of Water. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 

^ Small Onion. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wash the celery and onion and cut 
Into fine pieces. Then place them in 
a porcelain -lined saucepan and let 
boil for about a half hour. Take off 
and mash, and press through a colan- 
der. Set the milk to boil in a farina 
boiler, and as it heats well, add to it 
the water and celery that have been 
pressed. Rub smoothly together the 
flour and butter, and then stir into 
the boiling soup, stirring constantly 
till it thickens to a cream of the right 
consistency. Add salt and pepper to 
taste and serve hot. It is very de- 
licious served with slices of delicately 
toasted and buttered Crodtons on a 
separate dish garnished with sprigs of 
parsley and slices of hard-boiled eggs. 



Cream of Com Soup 

Potage Ok la Crhne da Mais 

2 Pints of Grated Corn. 

4 Quarts of Boiling Water. 

1 Pint of Hot Milk or Cream. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Level Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Slit the corn in two and grate from 
the cobs. Put the cobs into the boil- 
ing water and let them boil slowly 
about an hour, till tl^e water is re- 
duced to three quarts. Then take the 
cobs out and drain over the kettle. 
Add the corn and let it boil till very 
soft. This will require about thirty 
minutes. Take the soup off and press 
all through a sieve. Season ■ highly 



and set back to simmer gently, add- 
ing, in the meanwhile, the flour and 
butter, thoroughly rubbed together. 
Stir constantly till the soup thickens, 
and then add the boiling milk. Cook 
a moment only, take oft the fire, stir 
in the beaten yolks and serve hot. 
with buttered toast cut in dice shape. 



Cream of Tomato Soup 

Potagc aux Tomatea 

2 Quarts of Pure Tomato Juice. 

1 Gill of Rice. 3 Onions. 8 Allspice. 

4 Cloves. A St>rig of Thyme. 

A Pinch of Sugar to Taste. 

Pepper and Salt. 

Stew the tomatoes for about two 
hours, and then extract the Juice. Add 
the other ingredients, and boil for 
about an hour and a half; then strain. 
The rice, being creamy, should now 
make the soup as thick as cream. 
Serve with Crodtons or Quenelles. 



Cream of Asparagus Soup 

Crime d'Aapergca 

1 Large Bunch of Asparagus. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Quart of 

Milk. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Rich Cream. 

2 Even Tablespoonfuls of Flour or 

Corn Starch. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wash the asparagus, tie it in a 
bunch and put in a saucepan of boil- 
ing water. Let it boil gently for about 
three-quarters of an hour, or until 
perfectly tender. Take it from the 
water, cut off the tips or points and 
put them aside until wanted. Put 
the milk on to botl in a farina boiler. 
Press the asparagus stalks through a 
colander, and add them to the milk. 
Rub the butter and corn starch or 
flour together until perfectly smooth, 
and add to the boiling milk, stirring 
constantly till It thickens. Now add 
the asparagus tips, salt and pepper, 
and serve, without CroOtons, as the 
asparagus tips form a beautiful gar- 
nish. 

Cream of Spinach Soup 

Potage d la Crdme d'Spinarda 

Half a Peck or Four Pints of Spinach. 

2 Ounces of Fresh Butter. 

Two Quarts of Oyster Water. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Teaspoonful of Granulated Sugar. 

% of a Grated Nutmeg. 

Wash and boll one-half peck, or 
four pints of spinach; this quantity 
will measure about one pint when 
cooked, chopped and pounded into a 



20 



THE PICATUNE CKEOISE GOOK BOOK 



fine paste. Then put it into a stew pan 
with four ounces of fresh butter, the 
grated nutmeg and a teaspoonful of 
salt. Let it cook for ten minutes, 
stirring constantly. Add to this two 
quarts of oyster Juice (on other than 
fast days consomm6 may be used, or 
good bouillon). Let all boil up, and 
then press through a strainer. Set it 
over the Are again and just at the 
boiling point mix with it a tablespoon - 
ful of butter and a teaspoonful of 
granulated sugar. Serve , hot with 
Crodtons. 



Oream of Bariey Soap 

Pur6e d*Orge 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Barley, or a Half 

Cup. 

1 Pint of Cream or Milk. 

The Tolk of 2 Eggs. 3 Quarts of 

Water (boiling). 

Sialt and Pepper to Taste. 

Scald the barley and then put into 
a kettle with three quarts of boiling 
water and let it boil about three 
hours. Take it off and mash thor- 
oughly, and strain through a sieve. 
Add the hot milk to the stock of the 
barley, season with salt and pepper, 
and let it come to a boil. Take off 
and add the yolks of two eggs. 



Cream of Rice Soup 

Crime de Rie. 

1 Cup of Rice. 

3 Quarts of Water. 

1 Pint of Milk. The Yolks of 2 Eg08. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Pepper and Salt to Taste. 

Wash the rice thoroughly, rubbing 

dry. Put it into a saucepan, with one 

quart of cold water; when swelled add 

one quart of boiling water, and when 

it begins to get very tender add the 

remaining quart of boiling water. 

Then add the pepper and salt. Take 

from the fire, mash the rice well and 

rub all through a sieve. Beat up the 

yolks of the eggs well -with a few 

tablespoonfuls of cream. When quite 

smooth stir in carefully a few spoons 

of the boiling rice water, and then 

pour the eggs and cream or milk into 

the saucepan with the rice, which 

you will have returned to the stove. 

Mix briskly and then draw aside and 

stir for two or three minutes, being 

very careful not to allow the mixture 

to boil when once the eggs have been 

added. Serve hot with Crotltons or 

crackers. 



On other than fast days this is most 
delicious made -with Chicken Con- 
somme. 

Rice Soap, VVithoat Meat 

Ris au Maigre 

1 Cup of Rice. The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 

3 Quarts of Water. 1 Spoon of Butter. 

1 Pint of Milk. Pepper and Salt. 

Wash the rice thoroughly, rubblBR 
dry. Put it in a saucepan with one 
pint of cold "water; when swelled^ add 
one pint of boiling water, and when 
it begins to get very tender add the 
remaining pint of boiling water. Add 
the pepper and salt. Beat up the 
yolks of the eggs with a few table- 
spoonfuls of cream. When quite 
smooth, stir in carefully a few spoon- 
fuls of the boiling rice water, and 
then pour the eggs and cream into 
the saucepan, stirring very briskly. 
Draw aside and stir for two or three 
minutes, but do not allow the soup 
to boil when once the eggs are added. 

Cocoanut Soup 

Potage de Cocoa 

6 or 8 Calves' Feet. 
H Pound of Grated Cocoanut. 

1 Gallon of Water. 

1 Pint of Cream or Rich Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour or Arrowroot. 

3 Ounces of Fresh Butter. 

6 Blades of Mace. 

The Grated Rind of 1 Lemon. 

Scald the calves' feet, and scrape 
thoroughly without skinning; put 
them into the soup kettle with a gal- 
lon of cold -water, and cover the ket- 
tle well. Let the feet come to a slow 
boil and skim carefully. Then add the 
blades of mace and let the soup boil 
slowly till the meat is reduced to 
rags and has fallen from the bones. 
Then strain into a white porcelain 
dish or pan, and set it away to cool. 
After it has congealed, scrape off fat 
and sediment, and a beautiful Jelly 
will remkin. Cut up this cake of 
jelly and put it into a thoroughly 
cleansed, white porcelain soup kettle. 
In the meantime grate the cocoanut 
very fine, till about a half pound is 
on hand. Mix this with the pint of 
rich cream or milk, and add the but- 
ter which has been rolled smoothly 
in the arrowroot or flour. Mix this 
carefully and gradually with the 
calves' feet stock or soup, and season 
with a t^rated nutmeg. The soup 
should then be set back on the fire 
and allowed to boil slowly for about 
fifteen minutes, stirring almost con- 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



21 



stantly. Pour into the tureen and 
serve with French rolls, or milk bis- 
cuit, made very light and thin. On 
fast days omit the calves' feet, using 
another ounce of butter instead. 



Chestnut Soup 

Poiage d la Purie de Marrons 

3 Quarts of Oyster Water, or 

A Good Round of Beef or Veal. 

Quart of Chestnuts. 1 Herb Bouquet. 

Cayenne Pepper. 

Make a good broth of the veal or 
beef; season with the Cayenne pep- 
per and salt. Follow the rule given 
for makinir soups by allowing a pound 
of n^eat to each quart of water. Skim 
and boil till the meat falls into rags; 
then strain and put in a clean porce- 
lain pot. In the meantime shell the 



chestnuts and throw them into boil- 
ing water until the skin comes olf 
easily. Put them into a saucepan with 
some of the soup water, and boil 
about thirty minutes, till quite soft. 
Press through a colander; add but- 
ter, pepper and salt. Then add to 
the soup. Make dumplings the Bize 
of a marble with fresh butter rolled 
in flour, and add. (See recipe for 
Dumplings.) Boil the soup about flf- 
teen minutes longer and serve. Some 
prefer the soup without dumplings, 
thinking it gives more of the flavor 
of the chestnuts. On fast days use 
the oyster water instead of the beef 
broth, following the recipe in all 
other particulars, and adding a half 
tablespoonful of butter to the puree 
before pressing through the colander. 



CHAPTER VI 



i^Jf^r' 



50UILLI 



"Le BouilH" 



The Creoles long ago discovered, 
or, rather, brought over with them 
from the mother country, France, the 
delightful possibilities for a good en- 
tree that lurked within the generally 
despised and cast aside Bouilli, and 
these possibilities they improved upon 
in their own unique and palatable 
styles of cuisine preparations. 

In France the "Bouilli" is always 
served at the home dinner, and so 
with the new France, New Orleans. 
Far from rejecting the "Bouilli" as 
unpalatable and unflt for food, the 
Creoles discovered many delightful 
ways of serving it, and their theories 
of the nutrition that still remained 
in the boiled beef have been sus- 
tained by medical science. The linost 
eminent scientists have found by ex- 
periment that while heat coagulates 
the nutritious substances of the beef, 
only a small amount is dissolved when 
the water is heated gradually, and 
that the "Bouilli" is still valuable as 
an article of food. 

The pleasant ways that the Creoles 
have of preparing it restores its flavor 



and makes It a delightful accompani- 
ment to even the most aristocratic 
dinners. For breakfast the boiled 
beef left over is utilized in various 
ways. 

We have selected from among many 
the following recipes, which need 
only to be tried to be repeated often, 
in one form or the other. 

The recipes for the sauces men- 
tioned will be found in the chapter 
especially devoted to "Creole Sauces." 

Mlrontous 

The Lcft-Over Bouilli 

3 Large Onions. 6 Shallots. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

1 Bay Leaf. 2 Pickles. 

1 Tablespoon ful of Flour. 

1 Tablespoon ''ul of Butter. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

This is a favorite way the Creoles 
have of serving the cold bouilli that 
has been saved from the preceding 
day: 

Slice the onions fine; brown in one 
tablespoonful of butter. Chop the 
shallots and add to the onions, then 
add the garlic, thyme and bay leaf. 



22 



THE PICAYUNE €REX>IiE COOK BOOK 



all chopped very fine, and season with 
salt, Cayenne and black pepper to 
taste. When the whole is browninf? 
nicely add a tablespoonful of flour 
and water, or left-over broth, suffl- 
cient to cover. Season this to taste, 
and then take two pickles, about one 
flnger long, slice very fine and add. 
Let all boil about fifteen minutes, and 
then lay the cold bouilli, which has 
been thickly sliced, in the sauce. Set 
it to bake in the oven about twenty 
minutes. Garnish with buttered toast 
and serve hot. 

Boiled Beef Saut^ & la Ijyonnaise 

Bouilli 8aut4 A la Lyonnaite 

The Bouilli. 3 Onions. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Tablespoonful of Olive Oil. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chili Vinegrar. 

The Peel of One Lemon. 

Slice the onions and brown them in 
lard, using about one tablespoonful. 
Skim the lard off the onions and put 
the beef in the pan. Stir up and 
smother. Add the oil, the peel of a 
lemon, cut fine, and the chili vinegar. 
Serve hot. 

BoUed Beef k la Bordelalse 

BouUH d la Bordclaise 

The Bouilli. 

^ Dozen Shallots. 

1 Glass of Water. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Sauce Espagnole. 

Slice the left-over beef. Then hash 
the shallots into very fine pieces, pep- 
per and salt to taste, and boil to half 
the quantity over a brisk fire. Then 
add the mashed beef marrow from 
the bone and two teaspoonfuls of 
"Sauce Espagnole" (see recipe), first 
melting the marrow in a little bouil- 
lon. Stir rapidly over the fire, and 
as soon as it begins to bubble, with- 
draw it and set it back on the stove, 
letting it simmer gently for a quarter 
of an hour. Add the sliced beef, cook 
about ten minutes and then serve with 
Croutons or fried crusts. 



Boiled Beef h la Paysanne 

Bouilli d la Paysanne 

The Bouilli. 

5 Large Onions. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Flour. 

Wineglass of Water. 

A Dash of Mustard and Vinegar. 

Hash the left-over beef, and then 

chop five large onions very fine and 

cook them to a golden brown in but- 



ter. When nearly done, dust over 
them a teaspoonful of flour and 
moisten with a little water. Cook the 
onions till done and then put in the 
cold hashed beef, adding a dash of 
French vinegar and a little mustard* 
and serve. 



Boiled Beef k Flndienne 

Bouilli d VIndiennc 

The Bouilli. 

1 Teaspoonful of Powdered Saffron. 

2 Cayenne Pepper Pods. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

H Cup of Bouillon. 

This is a dinner dish. Crush the 
pods of two Cayenne peppers and a 
teaspoonful of powdered saffron and 
heat and brown In butter. Then 
moisten with a little bouillon. Boil 
the sauce down, and when nearly 
ready to serve, thicken with a little 
butter. Serve in a gravy dish with 
the "Bouilli," which has been nicely 
and tastefully garnished with lettuce 
leaves on a parsley bed. 

BoUed Beef Wi£h Tomatoes 

Bouilli aua Tomate$ 

The Bouilli. 

% Dozen Tomatoes. 

2 Cups of Bouillon. 

% Teaspoonful of Flour. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

Take a half dozen fine, ripe toma- 
toes, and parboil them in butter, be- 
ing careful not to let them burn. Add 
a pinch of flour and two good cups of 
bouillon, a little salt and pepper, a 
clove of garlic, a sprig of parsley, 
thyme and bay leaf. After two hours 
take out the tomatoes and allow the 
beef to cook a few minutes in the 
sauce. Then serve on a flat dish, ar- 
ranging thci, tomatoes around the beef 
and under each tomato put a nice 
piece of buttered toast. 



Boiled Beef k la Bmxelloise 

Bouilli d la Bruxelloine 

The Bouilli. 

1 Dozen Brussels Sprouts. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Take about a dozen Brussels sprouts 
and blanch them in boiling water. 
Drain thoroughly and stew in butter 
with chopped parsley. After they 
have cooked ten minutes, take them 
out of the pan and parboil them in 



rnifi PICAYUNE CREX>Ii£} COOK BOOK 



23 



melted fresh butter. Salt and pepper 
to taste and garnish nicely around 
the bouilli and serve. 



Boiled Beef en Papillottes 

Bouilli en Papillottes 

The Bouilli. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

6 Skusaeres. (Chaurice.) 

2 'Egga. 1 Cup Bread Crumbs. 

4 Sprigs of Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

This Is a nice breakfast dish. Take 
the left-over bouilli cut in slices and 
parboil slightly in butter. Make a 
force-meat' or quenelle of pork 
sausage, garlic, parsley and mois- 
tened bread crumbs, add two eggs, 
salt and pepper. Put a layer of this 
"farcl" between each layer of sliced 
beef, and then add the bread crumbs, 
mixed with chopped parsley. Put the 
beef in oiled paper, folded as tightly 
as possible, cook a quarter of an hour 
in the oven and serve in the papil- 
lotte (paper.) 



Boiled Beef With Carrot Sauce 

Bouilli d la Otecy 

The Bouilli. 

4 Carrots. 2 Onions. 

1 Gill of Cream. 

2 Sticks of Celery. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Make a good pur^e of fine, red car- 
rots (see recipe), and then strain in 
butter. Add a gill of rich cream and 
salt and pepper to the taste. Put the 
bouilli in the platter and pour the 
sauce around it, serving hot Just after 
the soup. 



Boiled Beef With liOttaee 

Bouilli d to Laitue 

The Bouilli. 

6 Head of Lettuce. 2 Hard-Boiled Eggs. 

12 Sausages. (Chaurice.) 

1^ Cups Bread Crumbs. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Take six fine, firm heads of lettuce, 
strip off all the green leaves, wash 
thoroughly and soak and blanch in 
boiling water. Then throw them into 
cold water. When very cold squeeze 
in a towel till they are thoroughly 
dry and cut off the stalks from below 
without injuring the heart. Pill this 
open place with forcemeat balls, made 
from the bouilli after the recipe al- 
ready given in Boiled Beef en Papil- 
lottes, that is, fry them In lard, with 



fresh bread crumbs, soaked in bouil- 
lon and worked into thd meat. Chop 
up with pepper, salt and garlic, and 
add one or two hard boiled eggs. 
Tie the balls up and cook without 
adding water and fill the heart of the 
lettuce. This may be served around 
the body of the bouilli and makes a 
beautiful garnish. 

B<^ed Beef k la Lyonnaiae 

BouiUi d la Lyonnaiee 

The Bouilli. 

6 Sausages. (Chaurice.) 

1 Clove of Garlic. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 

2 Eggs. Bread Crumbs. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Make a sausage meat of the bouilli, 
adding the pork sausage, garlic, pars- 
ley and thyme. Moisten some bread 
crumbs in water and dissolve with 
them two eggs, salt and pepper. Chop 
the whole and tie it tightly in cab- 
bage leaves. An hour before serving 
take xOut the remaining bouilli and 
the farcl or stuffed cabbage leaves. 
Let them cool, cut them into slices and 
roll these in beaten eggs, and then 
in bread crumbs, and fry in butter. 
Thi'ow over them a dash of powdered 
parsley and squeeze over all the Juice 
of a lemon. 

Boiled Beef With Egg Toast 

BouUH au "Pain Perdu" 

6 Slices of Bouilli. 

6 Slices of Stale Bread. 

2 Eggs. 1 Pint of Milk. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Parsley and Lettuce Leaves to Oamish. 

Take left-over or stale bread, slice 
it thickly and dip in cream or milk. 
Then dip it in the beaten whites and 
yolks of egg and fry In butter. Cut 
the bouilli into slices to match the 
bread, dip it in the egg and fry also. 
Serve on a dish with chopped parsley 
dashed over it and a garnish of pars- 
ley or lettuce leaves. 

Boiled Beef Saut6 With Onions 

BouUli 8aut6 aus Oignona 

The Bouilli. 

3 Large Onions. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Take three fine onions and parboil 
them in butter over a slow fire. When 
a rich, creamy brown, add clove gar- 
lic and Cayenne pepper. Cut the 
bouillon in thin slices and add, shak- 



24 



THE picayune: CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



ing: the pan until browned. Place in 
the platter and serve with chopped 
parsley dusted over, and the juice of 
a lemon squeezed over all. 



Boiled Beef k la Marsellalse 

Bouilli a la MarsellaiBn 

The Bouilli. 

1 Dozen Small Onions. 

H Cup Water. % Cup Meat Gravy. 

^ Can of Mushrooms. 

1 Herb Bouquet. % of a Grated Nutmegr- 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Slice the bouilli into thin, fine slices. 
Take a dozen onions, the smallest 
kind, and dust over with sugar, and 
bake in the oven. When a good color, 
put a little of the bouillon in the 
stewing pan and boil down one-half. 
Moisten with a cup of water and thick 
meat sauce, allowing half and half in 
proportion. Then add the beef, the 
mushrooms, the bouquet garni, salt, 
pepper and a little nutmeg, and serve 
very hot 



Boiled Beef Gros Sel 

BouilH Gro8 Sel 

The Bouilli. 

1 Bunch of Parsley. 1 Head of Lettuce. 

A French Dsesslng. 

This is the simplest way of serving 
the bouilli, and the one most used 
by the Creoles as a daily dish. Take 
the bouilli from the bouillon, and 
serve on a platter, laying the whole 
on a bed of parsley and Ifettuce. Serve 
with salt or French dressing. 



Beef Croquettes 

Croquettes de Boeuf 

The Bouilli. 

1 Pound of Pork or Sausage Meat. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

2 Onions. Whites of 3 Eggs. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Cup of Bread Crumbs. 

Salt and Pepper. 

Mince the beef with sausage meat 
and add garlic, parsley, pepper, salt 
and onions, and bread crumbs soaked 
in water. Add the whites of two egga 
beaten to a froth. Make into balls 



and roll in the beaten white of an 
egg, and fry, being careful not to 
cook too rapidly. When sufficiently 
browned, pile in a pyramid shape on 
a dish, garnish with parsley sprigrs 
and serve. 



Boiled Beef Sausage 

Saucisse de Bouilli 

The Bouilli. 

1 Pound of Ground Pork. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

6 Allspice. 3 Truffles. 

A Dash of Cayenne. 

1 Cup of Bouillon. 

Take the bouilli of the day before, 
mince and add chopped parsley, & 
few spices, salt and Cayenne pepper, 
and a little beef extract saved from 
the bouillon. Add the ground pork 
slowly, mixing thoroughly. When the 
whole is well mixed, add a few truffles. 
Fill some entrails that have been 
thoroughly cleansed with this meat 
and shape the sausage as one desires. 
Boil in butter and serve alone. This 
makes an excellent breakfast dish. 



A Good Every-Day Hash 

HacMa 

1 Quart of Chopped Soup Meat. 

1 Onion. 2 Potatoes. 

2 Hard -Boiled Sggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

% Pint of Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A Dash of Cayenne. 

Chop the left-over bouilli fine in 
dice shapes, and to every quart of 
the meat allow one onion, a table- 
spoonful of butter, two hard-boiled 
eggs, two cold (left-over) potatoes, 
a half pint of water, and salt and pep- 
per to taste. Chop the potatoes, 
onions and eggs line and put them 
into the stewing pan with the meat, 
adding by degrees the butter, salt and 
a half pod of red pepper. Without 
the pepper, use a little dash of 
Cayenne. Stew very slowly for about 
fifteen or twenty minutes and serve 
hot 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



25 



CHAPTER VII 




Oombo d la Crtole 



Gumbo, of all unique dishes of the 
New Orleans cuisine* represents a 
most distinctive type of the evolution 
of good cookery under the hands of 
the famous Creole cuisinl^res of old 
New Orleans. Indeed, the word "evo- 
lution" fails to apply when speaking 
of Gumbo, for it is an original con- 
ception, a something "sui generis" in 
cooking, peculiar to this ancient Cre- 
ole city alone, and to the manor born. 
With equal ability the older Creole 
cooks saw the possibilities of original 
and delicious combinations in making 
Gumbo, and hence we have many va- 
rieties, till the occult science of mak- 
ing a good "Gombo d. la Creole*' seems 
too fine an inheritance of gastronomic 
lore to remain forever hidden away in 
the cuisines of this old Southern me- 
tropolis. The following recipes, gath- 
ered with care from the best house- 
keepers of New Orleans, have . been 
handed down from generation to gen- 
eration. They need only to be tried 
to- prove their perfect claim to the 
admiration of the many distinguished' 
visitors and epicures who have paid 
tribute to our Creole Gumbo. 

Gumbo WLii, 

First, it will be necessary to explain 
here, for the benefit of many, that 
••Fil6" is a powder, first manufactured 
by tribes of Choctaw Indians in Lou- 
isiana, from the young and tender 
leaves of the sassafras. The Indian 
squaws gathered the leaves and spread 
them on a stone mortar to dry. 
When thoroughly dried, they pounded 
them into a fine powder, passed them 
through a hair sieve, and then 
brought the FiI6 to New Orleans to 
sell, coming twice a week to the 
famous French Market, from the res- 
ervation set aside for their home on 
Bayou Lacombe, near Mandeville, La. 
The Indians used sassafras leaves and 
the sassafras for many medicinal pur- 



poses, and the Creoles, quick to dis- 
cover and apply, found the possibili- 
ties of the powdered sassafras, or 
"Fil6," and originated the well-known 
dish, "Gumbo Fil6." 

To make a good "Gumbo Fil6," use 
the following ingredients: 

1 Large Tender Chicken. 

2 Larg-e Slices or Vi Pound L«ean Ham. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter or 1 of 

Lard. 

1 Bay Leaf. 3 Sprigs of JParsley. 

3 Dozen Oysters. 

1 Large Onion. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

2 Quarts of Oyster Water. 

2 Quarts of Boiling Water. 

1 Half Pod of Red Pepper, without the 

Seeds. 
Salt and Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Clean and cut up the chicken as for 
a fricass^. Dredge with salt and black 
pepper. Judging according to taste. 
Cut the ham into dice shapes and 
chop the onion, parsley and thyme 
very fine. Put the lard or butter into 
the soup kettle or deep stewing pot, 
and when hot, put in the ham and 
chicken. Cover closely and fry for 
about five or ten minutes. Then add 
the onion and parsley and thyme, stir- 
ring occasionally to prevent burning. 
When nicely browned add the boiling 
water and throw in the the oyster 
stock, which has been thoroughly 
heated. Add the bay leaf chopped 
very fine, and the pepper pod, cut in 
two, and set the Gumbo back to sim- 
mer for about an hour longer. When 
nearly ready to serve dinner, and 
while the Gumbo is boiling add the 
fresh oysters. Let the Gumbo remain 
on the stove for about three minutes 
longer, and then remove the pot from 
the fire. Have ready the tureens, set 
in a "bainmarie," or hot water bath, 
for once the Fil4 is added the Gumbo 
must never be warmed over. Take 
two tablespoonfuls of the Fil6 and 
drop gradually into the pot of boiling 
hot Gumbo, stirring slowly to mix 
thoroughly; pour into the tureen, or 
tureens, if there should be a second 



26 



THE PICAYUNE CREX>LE GOOK BOOK 



demand and serve with boiled rice. 
(See recipe.) The rice, it should be 
remarked, must be boiled so that the 
grains stand quite apart, and brought 
to the table in a separate dish, cov- 
ered. Serve about two spoonfuls of 
rice to one plate of Gumbo. 

The above recipe is for a family 
of six. Increased quantities in propor- 
tion as required. Never boil the 
Gumbo with the rice, and never add 
the F116 while the Gumbo is on the 
fire, as boiling after the Fil^ is added 
tends to make the Gumbo stringy and 
unfit for use, else the F116 is precipi- 
tated to the bottom of the pot, which 
is equally to be avoided. 

Where families cannot afford a fowl, 
a good Gumbo may be made by sub- 
stituting the round of the beef for the 
chicken. 

Squirrel or Rabbit Gumbo. 

Gombo d'Ecureuil ou de Lapin 
These are famous Creole Gumbos. 
The following ingredients are used: 

1 Fine Squirrel or Rabbit. 

2 Slices or ^ Pound of Lean Ham. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Large Onion. 

3 Dozen Oysters. 

2 Quarts of Oyster Water. 

% Pod of Red Pepper, without the Seed. 

A Dash of Cayenne. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Skin, clean and cut up the squirrel 
or rabbit, as for a fricasse. Dredge 
well with salt and black pepper. Cut 
the ham into dice shapes, and chop 
the onion parsley and thyme very fine. 
Put the lard or butter into a deep 
stew pot and when hot, put in the 
squirrel or rabbit. Cover closely and 
fry for about eight or ten minutes. 
Then proceed in exactly the same 
manner as for Chicken Gumbo; add 
the "Fil6" at the time indicated, and 
serve with boiled Louisiana rice. (See 
recipe.) 

Turkey Giunbo. 

Oombo de Dinde 

The Remains of a Turkey. 

% Pound of Lean Ham. 

2 Tablespoons of Butter or 1 of Lard. 

1 Bay Leaf. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

S Dozen Oysters. 
1 Large Onion. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

2 Quarts of Oyster Water. 
% Pod of Red Pepper, without the 

Seeds. 
Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Nothing is ever lost in a well-regu- 
lated Creole kitchen. When turkey is 
served one day, the remains or "left- 



over** are saved and made in to that 
most excellent dish — ^a Turkey Gumbo. 
It is made in the same manner as 
Chicken Gumbo, only instead of the 
chicken, the turkey meat, black and 
white, that is left over, is stripped 
from the bones and carcass. Chop 
fine and add to the hot lard, and then 
put in the ham, cut fine into dice 
shapes. Proceed exactly as in the 
recipe abpve, only after adding the 
boiling 'Water throw in the bones and 
carcass of the turkey. At the proper 
time remove the carcass and bones, 
add the oysters, and then remove the 
pot and "Filfi'* the Gumbo. Serve 
with boiled rice. Turkey Gumbo, 
when made from the remains of wild 
turkey, has a delicious flavor. 

Okra Gunibo. 

Qombo Fivi 

I Chicken. 1 Onion. 

6 Large Fresli Tomatoes. 

2 Pints of Okra, or Fifty Counted. 

% Pod of Red Pepper, without the 

Seeds. 

2 Large Slices of Ham. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of Thyme or 

Parsley. 

1 Tablespoon ful of Lard or Two Level 

Spoons of Butter. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

Clean and cut up the chicken. Cut 
the ham into small squares or dice 
and chop the onions, parsley and 
thyme. Skin the tomatoes, and chop 
fine, saving the Juice. W^ash and stem 
the okra and slice into thin layers 
of one-half inch each. Put the lard 
or butter into the soup kettle, and 
when hot add the chicken and the 
ham. Cover closely and let it sim- 
mer for about ten minutes. Then add 
the chopped onions, parsley, thyme 
and tomatoes, stirring frequently to 
prevent scorching. Then add the 
okra. and, when well browned, add 
the juice of the tomatoes, which im- 
parts a superior flavor. The okra is 
very delica e and Is liable to scorch 
quickly if not stirred frequently. For 
this reason many Creole cooks fry the 
okra separately in a frying pan, sea- 
soning with the pepper, Cayenne and 
salt, and then add to the chicken. But 
equally good results may be obtained 
with less trouble by simply adding 
the okra to the frying chicken, and 
watching constantly to prevent scorch- 
ing. The least taste of a "scorch" 
.spoils the flavor of the gumbo. When 
well fried and browned, put In the 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



21 



bollingr water (about three quarts) 
and set on a very slow fire, lettlngr 
it simmer gently for about an hour 
lonerer. Serve hot, with nicely boiled 
rice. The remains of turkey may be 
utilized in the grumbo, instead of using 
chicken. 

In families where it is not possible 
to procure a fowl, use a round steak 
of beef or veal, instead of the chicken, 
and chop fine. But it must always be 
borne in mind that the Chicken 
Gumbo has the best flavor. Much, 
however, depends upon the season- 
ing, which is always high, and thus 
cooked, the Meat Gumbo makes a 
most nutritious and excellent dish. 

Crab Gumbo. 

Oomho aux Crabcs 
1 Doxen Hard-Shell or Soft-Shell Crabs. 

1 Onion. 

6 Large Fresh Tomatoes. 

2 Pints of Okra, or Fifty Counted. 

Seeds. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of Thyme or 

Parsley. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard or Two Level 

Spoons of Butter. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

This is a great fast-day or "maigre" 
dish with the Creoles. Hard or soft- 
shell crabs may be used, though more 
frequently the former, as they are 
always procurable and far cheaper 
than the latter article, which is con- 
sidered a luxury. Crabs are always 
sold alive. Scald the hard-shell crabs 
and clean according to recipe already 
given, "taking off the dead man's fin- 
gers" and the spongy substances, and 
being careful to see that the sand- 
bags on the under part are removed. 
Then cut off the claws, crack and cut 
the body of the crab in quarters. Sea- 
son nicely with salt and pepper. Put 
the lard into the pot, and when hot 
throw in the bodies and claws. Cover 
closely, and, after five or ten minutes, 
add the skinned tomatoes, chopped 
onions, thyme and parsley, stirring 
occasionally to prevent scorching. 
After five minutes add the okra, 
sliced fine, and when well browned, 
without the semblance of scorching, 
add the bay leaf, chopped fine, and 
the Juice of the tomatoes. Pour over 
about two quarts and a half of boiling 
water, set on a slow fire and let It 
simmer well for about an hour, having 
thrown in the pepper pod. When 
nearly ready to serve, season accord- 
ing to taste with Cayenne and added 
salt; pour Into a tureen and serve with 



boiled rice. This quantity will allow 
two soft-shell crabs or two bodies of 
hard-shell crabs to each person. 

Oyster Gumbo. 

Oomho auw Uuitret 

4 Dozen Oysters. 

2 Quarts of Oyster Liquor. 

1 Teaspoonful of Lard or iJutter. 

1 Quart of Hot Water. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Large White Onion. 

Parsley, Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Put the lard Into a kettle, and when 
hot add the flour, making a brown 
roux When quite brown without 
burning, add the chopped onions and 
parsley. Fry these, and when brown, 
add the chopped bay leaf; pour in the 
hot oyster liquor and then add the 
hot water. When it comes to a good 
boll, just before serving, add the oys- 
ters which have been well drained, 
without pouring water over them, 
however. Cook for about three min- 
utes longer and take off the stove and 
stir gradually two tablespoonfuls of 
Fil6 Into the boiling hot gumbo. Have 
the tureen ready In a **baln-marie," 
or hot water bath, and pour In the 
gumbo and cover. Bring to the table 
Immediately and serve with boiled 
rice, allowing about six or eight oys- 
ters to each person. 

Shrimp Gumbo FI16. 

Qombo Fil€ aux Chevrettea 

50 Fine Lake Shrimp. 

2 Quarts of Oyster Liquor. 

1 Quart of Hot Water. 

1 Large White Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard or Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Dash of Cayenne. 

Salt and Black Pepper to Taste. 

Shell the shrimp, season highly and 
scald In boiling water. Put the lard 
Into a kettle, and, when hot, add the 
flour, making a brown roux. When 
quite brown, without a semblance of 
burning, add the chopped onion and* 
the parsley. Fry these, and when 
brown, add the chopped bay leaf; pour 
in the hot oyster liquor and the hot 
water, or use the carefully strained 
liquor In which the shrimp have been 
boiled. When It comes to a good boll 
and about five minutes before serving, 
add the shrimp to the gumbo and take 
off the stove. Then add to the boiling 
hot liquid about two tablespoonfuls 
of the ••F116," thickening just as de- 



28 



TH£ PICAYUNE CREX>IjE: COOK BOOK 



sired. Season again with salt and 
pepper to taste. Serve immediately 
with boiled rice. (See recipe, **Boiled 
Rice.") 

Shrimp Gumbo. 

Qpmho aux Chevrettes 

Lake shrimp are always used in 
making: this gumbo, the river shrimp 
being too small and delicate. Pur- 
chase always about 100 shrimp, or a 
small basketful, for there are always 
smaller shrimp in the pile which, 
when cooked, amount to little or noth-* 
ing. In making Shrimp Gumbo, either 
**Fil6'* or Okra may be used in the 
combination, but it must be borne in 
mind that, while the *'Fil6'* is fre- 
quently used, shrimp are far more de- 
licious for gumbo purposes when used 
with okra. The shrimp should always 
be scalded or boiled before putting in 
the gumbo. (See recipe for "Boiling 
Shrimp.") 

Green or Herb Gumbo. 

Oombo aux Herbet 

A Veal Brisket 

1 Large Slice of Lean Ham. 

Equal Parts of the Leaves of Young 

Cabbage, Radish, Turnips, Mustard. 

Spinach, Watercress, Parsley and 

Green Onion. 

1 Large Red or White Onion. 

^ Red Pepper Pod. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

1 Sprig of Sweet Marjoram. 

1 Clove. 9 Allspice. 

Cayenne to Taste. 

Soak and wash the leaves thorough- 
ly, being careful to wash each leaf 
separately, to be sure there lurk no 
insects in the folds or ridges. Then 
trim by taking off all the coarse mid- 
rib %9Lf the leaves, which will make 
the gumbo taste harsh and unpala- 
table. Boil the leaves together for 
about two hours and then parboil by 
adding a teaspoonful of cooking soda. 
Strain and chop very fine, being care- 
ful to save the water in which they 
were boiled. Cut the brisket of veal 
and the sliced hanl into small pieces 
and dredge with black pepper and 
salt, and chop one large white or red 
onion. Put a heaping teaspoonful of 
lard into a deep frying pan, and, 
when hot, add the chopped veal and 
the ham. Cover and let it simmer for 
about ten minutes, stirring occasion- 
ally to prevent burning. Then add the 
chopped onion and a little sprig of 
parsley chopped fine. When it comes 



to a rich brown, add the greens, and 
when these are browned, pour over 
four quarts of the water in which the 
leaves have been boiled. Throw in the 
marjoram and the red pepper pod and 
the clove and allspice, mashed fine. 
Set it back on the stove and let it boil 
for about one hour longer, adding the 
Cayenne or "hot pepper," and you 
will have a regular gumbo peculiar to 
New Orleans alone. Serve with boiled 
rice. 

CSabbage Gumbo. 

Oombo Ghouw 

1 Large Head of Cabbage (green and 

white mixed). 

1 Round Steak. 

2 Large Slices of Lean Ham. 

2 Pounds of Creole Sausage. 

(About 6 to a Pound.) 

1 Pod of Cayenne Pepper, without the 

1 Pint of Milk. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Lard. 
Salt and Black Pepper and Cayenne to 

Taste. 

Shred the cabbage and wash each 
leaf separately and thoroughly to 
avoid insects. Then chop the entire 
head very fine, into pieces about half 
the size of dice. Cut the steak or 
brisket Into small squares, also the 
ham, and fry in the deepest kettle 
you have, putting the meat into the 
pot when the lard Is very hot. When 
it begins to brown, * add a chopped 
onion and the sausage, and then add 
the chopped cabbage, stirring and 
pouring In enough water to prevent 
it from burning. Throw in the red 
pepper pod and a dash of Cayenne, 
and salt to taste. Add a little black 
pepper. Stir often and allow the in- 
gredients to cook well, gradually add- 
ing, if necessary, a little water, and 
stirring frequently to prevent burning. 
When thoroughly cooked, make a 
cream sauce as follows: 

Take one pint of new milk and two 
tablespoonfuls of flour and mix thor- 
oughly, so as not to be lumpy. Stir 
this Into the gumbo while boiling, 
and continue stirring for five minutes. 
Serve with boiled rice. If It la not 
possible to procure milk, almost the 
same effect may be attained by mix- 
ing the flour in cold water of the 
same measurement anl stirring in as 
already given. The gumbo must not 
be allowed to stand on the fire after 
the flour has been boiled in it for 
five minutes, as it will burn. 



THJB PICAYUNB3 CREOLE COOK BOOK 



29 



CHAPTER VIII 




Du Poisaon 



The perfection and variety of the flsh 
found in the New Orleans markets are 
unsurpassed. We have here all the flsh 
found in the waters of the Gulf of 
Mexico contieruous to New Orleans, 
the Mississippi Sound and our own 
lalce shores. These constitute the fa- 
mous salt-water varieties, such as the 
Sheepshead, considered by many the 
best flsh in the Gulf; the famous Pom- 
pano and Spanish Mackerel, the 
dainty Croaker, the toothsome Floun- 
der, the Blueflsh, the Silver Trout, 
Tenderloin Trout, Speckled Trout and 
the Grouper. Among shell flsh we 
have the Hard-shell Crab, the Soft- 
shell Crab, considered a great luxury 
in other parts, but always to be found 
in the New Orleans market; the appe- 
tizing Lake Shrimp; that delicious bi- 
valve, the Oyster; the Crawfish, and 
the famous Green Turtle, so highly 
prized as a dainty morsel. Again, in 
the rivers * and bayous and small 
streams of Louisiana we have many 
delightful varieties of fresh-water 
flsh, such as fresh-water or Green 
Trout, the Sacalalt and a coarse flsh 
called the Buffalo. The River Shrimp 
of Louisiana are unique in the United 
States. They are of a far more deli- 
cate variety than the Lake Shrimp 
and much prized as an article of food. 
Both Lake and River Shrimp are 
abundant in the summer time and are 
used alike by rich and poor. 

In the following recipes the most 
delightful methods of preparing these 
flsh are given, methods which may be 
used by all according to the purse, the 
conditions of the poorest having been 
considered as well as the wants of 
the wealthy. All are equally recom- 
mended, being the most perfect prep- 
arations of their kind in use among 
the Creole housekeepers. It might be 
added here, for the benefit of any 
Northern housekeepers into whose 
hands this book may fall, that many 



of the recipes may be modified ac- 
cording to good judgment in prepar- 
ing the fish found exclusively in the 
Northern markets. For instance, in 
making the famous "Courtbouillon," 
which is in all respects a distinctive 
Creole conception, any firm fish, such 
as the Bass, may be used, though, of 
course, the flavor of the delicious Red 
Snapper or Red Fish used in making 
a "Courtbouillon," will be found want- 
ing. With modifications that will sug- 
gest themselves to any intelligent 
housekeeper, they may be used the 
world over in preparing fish of other 
varieties than those which are the de- 
light and pride of the New Orleans 
Fish Market. 



How to TelKGood Fish. 

Unless perfectly fresh, fish is unfit 
for use. Care should be taken to see 
that the gills are bright and red, the 
scales shining, the eyes clear and the 
fiesh very firm and free from any un- 
pleasant odor. In the New Orleans 
Fish Market the vendors generally 
clean and scale the fish, if requested 
to do so; but this cleaning and s iling 
is not to be entirely depended upon, 
because it is rarely thorough, only the 
heavier scales and entrails being re- 
moved. On coming home from the 
market, the fish should be immedi- 
ately rescaled and thoroughly cleansed 
and washed without soaking in water; 
it is far better to let the water run 
over the fish, for thus the smallest 
particle of blood is removed. This 
is very important in order to have a 
good, ' wholesome, savory dish. Then 
sprinkle the fish on the inside with 
salt, and set in the ice box. If this 
is wanting, put it in a very cool place, 
but it is always best for it to remain 
on ice until ready to use, especially 
during the summer. 



30 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE CXX>K BOOK 



Methods of Cooking Fish. 

Visitors to New Orleans declare that 
nowhere is fish cooked In such pala- 
table ways as in this old Franco- 
Spanish city. The experience of gen- 
erations of fine old cooks has been 
brought to bear upon the preparation 
of the fish found in the Louisiana 
waters, and those of the Mexican Gulf, 
with the result that a Creole code of 
rules for the cooking of even the 
smallest and least important fish pre- 
vails, and it is considered little short 
of barbarous to depart from it. 

The Creole methods of boiling and 
baking fish are the perfection of culi- 
nary art and unlike any method in 
vogue elsewhere. 

Special recipes are, therefore, given 
for the boiling and baking of Sheeps- 
head, Redfish, Red Snapper, as, also, 
for making the world-famous Creole 
••Courtbouillon'* and "Bouillabaise." 
These rules should be strictly observed 
in cooking these fish if one would 
bring out the best flavor of each. But 
there are other fish, such as Green 
Trout and Perch which, when simply 
broiled and served with appropriate 
sauces, are known to preserve their 
best flavor in this species of cooking. 

The following general rules for boil- 
ing, broiling, baking, stewing and fry- 
ing flsh should be carefully followed 
wherever indicated in the recipes. 



BOILKD FISH. 

PoUaon Bouilli 

General Rules for Boiling Fish. 

•Clean and -wash the flsh thoroughly, 
make a small letter **S" with knife on 
the back; pass twine around the body 
of the flsh so as to secure it. Never 
wrap or tie in a cloth. Have ready a 
kettle of boiling water and throw in 
a sprig of onion, thyme and bay leaf, 
eight or. ten cloves, about two dozen 
allspicOp all mashed flne; a bit of 
lemon peel and a red pepper pod. 
When the water has boiled long 
enough to have extracted the flavor 
of those ingredients, drop the flsh in 
carefully, so as to avoid breaking. 
Let it boil about ten minutes and then 
take out carefully. Put into a strainer 
and drain quickly. Place on a bed 
of parsley with garnishes of lemon 
and serve either a Mayonnaise or 
Genoise Sause or Sauce Hollandaise. 
(See recipes.) 



The Creoles add a clove of garlic 
to the boiling water, but this is ac- 
cording to taste. 

BROILED FISH. 

Poi8Mn Grill4 

General Rules for Broiling Fish. 

Always use the double broiler, made 
of wire, as this allows the cook to 
turn the flsh from side to side wltb- 
out disturbing the body during the 
process of broiling, and possibly 
breaking the flesh. Clean the fish, 
without C'Jtting off the head and tail- 
When the flsh is large split down the 
back; else broil whole. Always serv^e 
broiled flsh whole. Have a clear mod- 
erate Are. E3xpose first the flesh side 
to the fire, then the skin, for as the 
latter browns it is liable to burn 
quickly. Great care must, therefore, 
be taken not to burn the skin side. 

Before placing on the broiler, rub 
the flsh well with salt and pepper, 
mixed in a little sweet oil or a little 
butter oil or butter. If the flsh is 
small, broil on a quick, clear flre; if 
large, as mentioned above, the flre 
must be moderate, or the outside of 
the flsh will be charred before the 
inside is done. When the flsh is done 
through and through, which can 
quickly be determined by the flesh 
parting easily from the bone, remove 
the gridiron from the flre, and loosen 
the flns from the broiler -with a knife, 
being careful not to break the flesh. 
Then place the hot dish over the flsh, 
and, with a dexterous movement, turn 
the two back again, thus separating 
the gridiron from the flsh and plac- 
ing the latter in the dish. Butter 
well, season with a little pepper and 
salt, if deemed necessary, and pour 
over it a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley and lemon juice. Serve with 
garnishes of sliced lemon and parsley, 
or garnishes of delicate green lettuce 
leaves. 

BAKED FISH. 

Poiason au Oratin 

General Rules for Baking Fish. 

Clean the flsh, cutting off the flns. 
Make the letter "S" on the sides. Rub 
well inside and out with pepper and 
salt. Butter a stewpan and put in 
one large chopped onion and a wine- 
glassful of water. Place the flsh in 
the pan, put in the oven and let it 






TH£ PICAYUNIQ CRElOIiE COOK BOOK 



31 



bake about twenty minutes, having 
been careful to place lumps of butter 
over it and basting frequently. When 
done carefully lift the fish out of the 
pan and put it into the dish in which 
it is to be served. Take the gravy in 
which the flsh has been cooked and 
add about a cup of oyster water, the 
Juice of one lemon, two tablespoonfuls 
of chopped mushrooms, one table- 
spoonful of minced parsley, thyme 
and sweet marjoram, ten allspice, one 
clove of garlic, a little Cayenne, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Mix all 
thoroughly over the stove, adding a 
little butter if the gravy adheres too 
much to the pan. Pour over the flsh, 
and garnish with whdle mushrooms 
and slices of lemon laid alternately 
upon Crotltons or dried toast, cut dia- 
mond shape. 

STEAVBD FISH. 

Poi»8on en Matelote 

General Rules for Stewing Fish. 

Clean the flsh well, slice and pour 
over It one cup of ' good, boiling 
vinegar. Make a roux by putting one 
tahlespoonful of lard into the Ftew- 
pan, and when hot add gradually 
two tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed 
smoothly. When quite brown, take 
the flsh which has been previously 
rubbed with salt and pepper, and 
put it in the pot. Let it simmer gently 
a few minutes, and then add a large 
chopped onion, parsley, one clove of 
garlic, one sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, 
two blades of mace and eight or ten 
allspice. Let these brown and cover 
with water sufllcient to prevent burn- 
ing. Put the flsh on a slow flre to 
stew, and when half done, add a little 
Cayenne. When done, place the flsh 
in a dish, pour the gravy over it. and 
garnish with CroOtons, with alternate 
slices of lemon and prepared horse- 
radish. 

FUIKD FISH. 

Poi»8on9 Frits 

General Rules for Frying Flsh. 

Certain of the flsh of the Mexican 
Gulf are always best when fried. Of 
these are the toothsome Croakers, the 
delicate Sacalait and Patassas, and 
also the Speckled Trout when served 
in tenderloin steaks. 

The secret of good frying Ilea In 
having the lard heated just to the 
proper point. If the flsh is placed in 



boiling lard, it is liable to burn quick- 
ly without being cooked through and 
through. If placed simply in the well- 
heated lard, it is delicate and tender 
and there is no tax upon the digestive 
organs. Always have sufflcient lard 
in the pan to fry all the fish that is 
on hand, and never add a lump of 
cold lard to the heated substance. 
This checks the cooking of the flsh 
and spoils the taste. If the lard spits 
and crackles, that is no evidence of 
boiling. It only means that the lard 
is throwing off drops of moisture that 
have crept in. Boiling lard is per- 
fectly still until it begins to smoke, 
and then it is in danger of burning 
and must be removed from the flre. 
To test the lard, drop in a piece of 
bread. If it begins to color, the lard 
is ready for frying. When the flsh is 
fried, skim it out, draining off all the 
fat. Butter is never used in frying 
fish, as it burns quickly. 

A Sliort Resume of the Way in Which 

I<^h of the New Orleans Market 

Should Always Be Cooked. 

Sheepshead may be boiled, broiled 
or baked, and is good with any sauce. 

Redflsh is principally used in mak- 
ing "Courtbouillon," or it is boiled and 
served with an Hollandaise Sauce, or 
baked. 

Red Snapper should always be 
boiled or baked, it is delightful served 
k la Chambard, but it is best & la 
Creole. 

Grpuper is served in the same way 
as Red Snapper. 

Flounder should always be baked 
k la Nouvelle Orleans, or k la Nor- 
man de. 

Pompano should always be broiled 
and served with Sauce d. la Maitre 
d'Hotel. 

Spanish Mackerel should always be 
broiled in the same manner as Pom- 
pano, and served with Sauce k la 
Maitre d'Hotel. 

Blueflsh should be cooked and 
served in the same manner as Pom- 
pano and Spanish Mackerel. 

Speckled Trout is generally broiled 
and served in tenderloin, as a Ten- 
derloin Trout with Sauce k la Tartare. 

Green Trout and Perch should be 
broiled and served with a Sauce k la 
Maitre d'Hotel, or else boiled and 
served with a Sauce Genoise, or a 
Hollandaise or Drawn Butter Sauce. 



Croakers are fried and served with 
garnish of parsley or lemon. 

Patassas, Sacalait and other small 
fish are served in the same manner 
as Croakers. 

Soft -shell 'Crabs may be fried in 
the same manner as Croakers, or 
broiled and served on toast. 

Shrimp are generally boiled, with 
plenty of seasoning. The River Shrimp 
are always served as boiled, shells 
and all, but the Lake Shrimp enter 
into many combinations in cooking. 

Hard-shell Crabs may be stuffed, 
stewed, fried, or made Into Oumbo. 

All left-over broiled, baked or 
boiled fish should be utilized in mak- 
ing salads, croquettes, etc. 

Oysters are served in almost every 
conceivable way, and enter into the 
most delightful combinations in cook- 
ing. 

A fish weighing three pounds, or 
small fish in quantity sufllclent to 
make three pounds (uncooked) will 
serve six persons. 



THE SHBEPSH£AD . 

Oashurgot 

Of all the fish found in the waters 
of .the Gulf of Mexico, the Sheepshead 
is perhaps the most to be commended 
for frequent household use, being sus- 
ceptible of a far greater variety of 
modes of preparation than any other 
fish. The fiesh being of less rich 
fiber than the Redfish, Red Snapper, 
Pompano and Spanish Mackerel, it 
may be used from day to day -without 
injury to the stomach. It is good in 
almost any form and may be boiled, 
baked or broiled, and served with al- 
most any sauce. 



Boiled Sheepshead 

Oaaburgot BowUli 

A 3-pound Sheepshead. 

1 Sliced Onion. 

3 Bay Leaves. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 1 

Sprig of Parsley. 
1 Sprig of Sweet Marjoram. 1 Table- 
spoonful of French Vinegar. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
A Cream Sauce. 

Wash and thoroughly clean the 
fish, and then lay on a pan and open 
the flesh on either side by making the 
letter "S" with the knife. This is done 
to prevent the fish from puffing out 
or drawing up, and to insure thorough 
cooking and a perfect shape after- 



wards. Then tie the fish well witli 
cord or twine, wrapping it around the 
body. Never encase a boiled fish in a. 
cloth; put the fish in a deep saucepan 
and add boiling water sufficient for 
the fish to swim in it. Throw in a. 
tablespoonful of spice (well mashed), 
a sliced onion, three bay leaves, a 
sprig of parsley (all chopped very 
fine), a tablespoonful of French vine- 
gar, and salt and pepper to taste. 
Cover well and let it boil for ten min- 
utes. After ten minutes, the fish i» 
cooked. Prepare a "Cream Sauce" 
(see recipe), and serve immediately. 

Baked Slieepshead. 

Caaburgot au Oratin 

A 3-pound Sheepshead. 

1 Large Onion. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Bay 

1 Sprig of Thyme 

Leaf. 

6 Fresh Tortiatoes. 2 Dozen Lake 

Shrimp. 

1 Dozen Oysters. % Can of Mushrooms. 

2 Crackers. Dry Toast Cut In Dice 

Shape. 
3 Sprigs Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 

Clean and wash the fish; place on a 
platter; chop one large onion fine, rub 
the fish first with salt and black pep- 
per, and then take a large and deep 
kitchen pan; place in it a table- 
spoonful of butter, the chopped onion, 
'bay leaf and thyme. Place the fish on 
top of this and pour over a pint of 
water. Cover with another close pan 
and put the whole on top of the oven 
(not on the inside). Bake from the 
bottom. When it begins to boil from 
below, turn the fish over carefully 
without breaking, and let it bake on 
the other side. Take a saucepan and 
put In it a tablespoonful of butter 
and mix thoroughly with tw^o table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Let it brown with- 
out burning, and then add six fresh 
tomatoes, skinned and chopped fine, 
or a half can. Add two dozen Lake 
Shrimp that have been cleaned well 
and scalded, a half can of mushrooms, 
salt and pepper to taste. Let all cook 
for about five minutes and add water 
with the gravy in which the fish is 
cooking. Mix well and cover the fish 
with It. Parboil one dozen oysters, and 
when the fish Is cooked set it in the 
dish in which it la to be served and 
I)lace the oysters all around it on 
small slices of dry toast. Cover the 



THE picayune: CREOLE COOK BOOK 



33 



fish alternately with the shrimp and 
oysters, as a grarnlsh over and around 
it. Mash two crackers into crumbs 
and sprinkle over, and put a num- 
ber of small bits of butter on top of 
the fish. Place the dish in the oven 
and bake the fish with a quick fire 
until brown, and serve immediately. 



Sheepshead k la Creole. 

CfUburgot d la Oriole 

A 3 -pound Sheepshead. 

2 Onions. 

1 Bunch of Parsley. 

2 Sprigs of Thyme. 4 Bay Leaves. 

1 SprlfiT of Sweet Marjoram. 

1 Quart of Boiled Cream. Tolks of 4 

Berg's. 
3 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 2 Table- 
spoonfuls of Butter. 
Bread Crumbs. 

Prepare the Sheepshead as for boil- 
ing (see recipe Boiled Sheepshead.) 
When quite done take out of the water 
and flake off all the flesh from the 
bones. Have ready- a quart of boiled 
cream or milk. Beat the yolks of four 
eggs and mix with the cream. Chop 
one large onioH, a bunch of parsley, a 
sprig each of thyme and bay leaf, 
and add to the cream . and eggs. Let 
it boil up once, and whil^ boiling, 
throw in three tablespoonfuls of flour, 
rubbed i)erfectly smooth, in a little 
cream, and about two tablespoonfuls 
of butter. Remove from the fire. 
Have ready a deep dish, well buttered, 
and put in a layer of fish and then 
a layer of the sauce, until the dish 
is full. Sprinkle over with bread 
crumbs. Place in the oven and bake 
about a half hour, or until brown. 



Baked Sheepshead h la Creole. 

Casburgot d la Creole au Oratin 

A 3-pound Sheepshead. 

1 Cup of Stale Bread Crumbs. 

1 Onion. 1 Tablespoonful of Chopped 

Parsley. 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 1 Pint of 

Boiling Water. 

Salt and Pepper and Flour to Dredge. 

A Hollandaise, Bechamel or Tomato 

Sauce. 

The following is a more simple 
manner, where meats are limited, of 
baking Sheepshead for frequent fam- 
ily use. Clean the fish thoroughly, 
inside and out; v/ash well and dry 
thoroughly with a clean towel. Rub 
it well with salt and pepper, then 
make a dressing, taking one cup of 
stale bread crumbs, wet and then 



squeezed free of all water, one table- 
spoonful of melted butter, one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, a half 
teaspoonful of salt and a little black 
pepper. Mix well and fry in a little 
lard. One dozen oysters or shrimp, 
or the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs 
added and mixed increase the flavor 
of the dressing, but the dressing can 
be made very nicely without. After 
frying the dressing a few minutes, 
take off the stove and stuff the body 
of the flsh and sew up with soft thread 
or soft yarn. Score or slit the flsh on 
either side, making the scores about 
an inch apart, and lard it either by 
putting a strip of salt fat in each 
gash or flllingr with lard. Grease the 
bottom of a baking pan, put the flsh 
in and dredge thickly with salt and 
flour and a little Cayenne. Cover the 
bottom of the pan with the grease, 
add a little boiling water, and put the 
flsh in a hot oven. Baste every ten 
minutes or so by taking a spoon and 
pouring the gravy over the flsh. Al- 
low about flfteen minutes of bakin^r 
to every pound of flsh, the ordinary 
sized fl.sh of four pounds requiring 
about one hour. When brown on one 
side, turn on the other, and when 
done carefully slide the flsh into the 
center of the flat dish in which it Is 
to be served, and garnish nicely with 
slices of lemon, fried potato balls and 
chopped parsley. Make the garnish by 
placing sprigs of* parsley between the 
fried potato balls and layingr on the 
slices of lemon. Serve with Holland- 
aise Sauce or Bechamel Sauce. (See 
recipes.) 

Where the flsh is not served with 
separate sauce a good sauce from its 
own juices may be made. Simply 
grease and cover the bottom of the 
pan with boiling water and place in 
the flsh. As it begins to bake well take 
a half dozen good fresh tomatoes or 
a half can of tomatoes, one onion, one 
bay leaf, a sprig of thyme and a blade 
of mace, chop all flne, and mix thor- 
oughly and pour over the baking fish. 
Add a little butter, salt and pepper, 
and a very good every-day sauce will 
be the result. 



RED SXAPPER AND REDFISH. 

Red Snapper et Poi89on Rouge 
These are distinctive flsh, and form 
unique and most delightful dishes of 
the Creole cuisine. 



84 



THE PICAYl'NE CREX>Li£ COOK BOOK 



Courtboulllon k la Creole. 

Six Fine Slices of Redflsh or Ked Snap- 
per (equal to 3 pounds). 
1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 2 Tableapoon*- 

fuls of Flour. 
12 Well-Mashed Allspice. 3 SprifiTs of 

Thyme. 
3 Sprigrs Parsley. 3 Sprigs Sweet 

Marjoram. 3 Bay Leaves. 

1 Largre Onion. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

6 Largre Fresh Tomatoes or a Half Can. 

IV^ Quarts of Water. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

Those kings of the New Orleans 
French Market, the Red Snapper or 
the Redfish, are used in making the 
pride and glory of the New Orleans 
cuisines, a good "Courtboulllon." 
More generally and with finer results 
the Redflsh or "Poisson Rouge" Is 
used. This fish may always be known 
by the single spot on the tail. 

To make a real Courtboulllon slice 
the Redflsh in flne, clear-cut pieces, 
after having thoroughly washed and 
cleaned it. Make a "Roux" by put- 
ting one tablespoonful of lard in a 
deep can or kettle. When hot add 
gradually two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
stirring constantly to prevent burning. 
Throw in about ten or twelve well- 
mashed allspice, and three sprigs each 
of chopped thyme, parsley, bay leaf 
and sweet marjoram, one clove of 
garlic and one large onion, chopped 
very flne. Add six fresh, large toma- 
toes, chopped flne, or one-half can 
of tomatoes. Add about one quart of 
water, and let it boil well. Then add 
salt and Cayenne to taste, and when 
this has boiled about five minutes add 
the flsh, putting in slice by slice. Add 
the Juice of a lemon, and let all boll 
about ten minutes. Serve with French 
fried potatoes, mashed potatoes or 
potato croquettes. 

A Courtboulllon of Red Snapper is 
made in same way. 



Spanish CourtbouilloiL 

Courtboulllon a VEspagnole 
6 Slices of Redflsh or Red Snapper 
(equal to 3 pounds). 
1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 2 Tablespoon- 
fuls of Flour. 
1 Large Onion, 6 Tomatoes, 3 Sprigs of 

Parsley. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 3 Sprlps of Tl^yme. 

1 Sprig of Sweet Kasil. 

2 Bay Leaves. 2% Pints of Water. 

The delightful adaptability of thfe 
New Orleans cuisine to the wants of 
all the people may be seen in the fol- 
lowing Courtboulllon, which is in gen- 



eral use among the families of mod- 
erate means, and is, indeed, a very 
pleasing way of cooking Redflsh: 

Take four to six slices of Redflsti. 
Make a Roux by putting one table- 
spoonful of lard into the stewp&n. 
and when it is hot, stir in gradually 
two tablespoonfuls of flour. Add one 
large chopped onion, six tomatoes 
(chopped), the chopped parsley, clove 
of garlic, sweet basil and thyme, all 
chopped very flne. Add two bay 
leaves whole. When It browns nicely 
without burning, pour in about two 
pints of water and let it come to a 
boil. Rub the flsh well with salt and 
pepper, and pour over it a cup of boil- 
ing vinegar. Put the flsh, slice by 
slice, into the pot and let It simmer 
for about a half hour, or until the 
flesh begins to be soft. Then remove 
from the Are, take out of the pot, and 
lay the slices in a dish. Take the 
bay leaves out of the gravy, pour the 
gravy over the flsh, and serve with 
garnishes of sliced lemon. 

It is a most economical Friday or 
fast -day dish in large families when 
served with boiled rice, or potatoes 
boiled whole. 

Bouillabaisse. 

6 Slices of Red Snapper. 6 Slices of 

Redflsh. 

H Lemon. 

6 Large Fresh Tomatoes, or % Can. 

3 Onions. 1 Herb Bouquet. 

3 Cloves of Garlic. 

3 Bay Leaves. 3 Sprigs of Thyme. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

6 Allspice. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Olive 

Oil. 

1 Good Strong Pinch of Saffron. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

This is the dish that drew from 
Thackeray that famous tribute to Cre- 
ole Cookery: "In New Orleans you can 
eat a Bouillabaisse, the like of which 
was never eaten in Marseilles or 
Paris." 

The reason is clear, for in those old 
French cities the Bouillabaisse is made 
from the fish of the waters of the 
Mediterranean sea, notably the Stur- 
geon and the Perch combined, while 
in New Orleans it is made from those 
matchless fish of the Gulf of Mexico. 
the Red Snapper and the Redflsh 
(Poisson Rouge). It will be noticed 
that it takes two kinds of fish to 
make a Bouillabaisse. The first 
Bouillabaisse was made In Marseilles, 
and the old Creole tradition runs that 
it was the discover.'' of two sailor 



THE picayune: CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



35 



fishermen, who were disputing: as they 
sat in a schooner as to the proper way 
of cookingr a Sturgeon and Perch com- 
bined. ' Both tried! One succeeded 
in making: a deligrhtful dish that would 
have gladdened the heart of any old 
French "bon vivant." The other failed. 
The successful one enthusiastically of- 
fered to teach his friend, and as the 
latter was following the directions im- 
plicitly, and the finishing touches were 
being given to the dish, the teacher, 
seeing that the critical and important 
moment had come when the fish must 
be taken from the fire, or it would be 
spoiled if it cooked a moment longer, 
cried out. bringing down his hand em- 
phatically: "Et quand ca commence a 
bouillir — Baisse!" Hence the name 
"Bouillabaisse," which was given to 
the dish from chat moment. From all 
portions of Europe people go to Mar- 
seilles to eat a "Bouillabaisse" on the 
seashore. 

The Creole Bouillabaisse, with the 
modifications and improvements that 
early ingenuity sugge^sted, is a dish 
that was the standing offering in the 
olden days to every distinguished 
Parisian or foreigner that visited New 
Orleans. Its reputation is sustained 
by the Creole cuislni^res of our own 
day. It is made as follows: 

First cut off the head of the Red 
Snapper and boil it i^ about two 
quarts of water, so as to make a fish 
stock. Put one sliced onion and a 
herb bouquet consisting of thyme, bay 
leaf and parsley, into the water. When 
reduced to one pint, take out the 
head of the fish and the herb bouquet 
and strain the water and set it aside 
for use later on. 

Take six slices of Redflsh and six 
slices of Red Snapper of equal sizes 
and rub well with salt and pepper. 
Mince -three sprigs of thyme, three 
sprigs of parsley, three bay leaves 
and three cloves of garlic, very, very 
fine, and take six allspice and grind 
them very fine, and mix thoroughly 
with the minced herbs and garlic. 
Then take each slice of fish and rub 
well with this mixture till every por- 
tion is permeated by the herbs, spice 
and garlic. They must be, as it were, 
soaked into the flesh, if you would 
achieve the success of this dish. Take 
two tablespoonfuls of fine olive oil 
and put it into a very large pan, so big 
that each slice of the fish may be put 
in -without one piece overlapping the 



other. Chop two onions very fine and 
add them to the heating oil. Lay the 
fish, slice by slice, in the pan and 
cover, and let them "6touffer." or 
smother for about ten minutes, turn- 
ing once over so that each side may 
cook partly. Then take the fish out 
of the pan and set the slices in 
a dish. Add a half can of tomatoes, 
or six large, fresh tomatoes sliced 
fine, and let them boil well. ' Then 
add half a lemon, cut in very thin 
slices, and pour over a pint of the 
liquor in which the head of the snap- 
per was boiled. Season well to taste 
with salt, pepper and a dash of Cay- 
enne. Let it boil until very strong 
and till reduced almost one-half; then 
lay the fish, slice by slice, apart one ' 
from the other, in the pan, and let boil 
five minutes. In the meantime have 
prepared one good pinch of saffron, 
chopped very fine. Set it in a small, 
deep dish and add a little of the sauce 
in which the fish is boiling to dissolve 
well. When well melted, and when 
the fish has been just five minutes in 
the pan, spread the saffron over the 
top of the fish. Take out of the pan, 
lay each slice on . toast, which has 
been fried in butter; pour the sauce 
over and serve hot immediately. You 
will have a dish that Lucullus would 
have envied. 



Boiled Redflsh or Boiled Red Snapper 

Pois9on Houge ou Red Snapper Bouilli 
A 3-pound Redflsh or Red Snapper. 

1 Sliced Onion. 

3 Bay Leaves. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Sprig of Sweet Marjoram. 1 Table - 

spoonful of French Vinegar. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A HoUandalse Sauce. 

Wash and thoroughly clean the fish, 
and then lay on a pan and open the 
flesh on either side by making the 
letter "S" with the knife. This is done 
to prevent the fish from puffing out 
or drawing up, and to insure thorough 
cooking and a perfect shape after- 
wards. Then tie the fish well with 
cord or twine, wrapping it around 
the body. Never encase a boiled fish 
in a cloth; put the fish in a deep, 
saucepan and add boiling water suffl- 
cient for the fish to swim in it. Throw 
in a tablespoonful of spice (well 
mashed), a sliced onion, three bay 
leaves, a sprig of thyme and sweet 
marjoram, a sprig of parsley (all 
chopped very fine), a tablespoonful 



36 



THE PICAYTNE CREOLE CXX>K BOOK 



of French vinegar, and salt and pep- 
per to taste. Cover well and let it 
boil for ten minutes. After ten min- 
utes, the flsh is cooked. Prepare a 
•'Cream Sauce" (see recipe), and 
serve immediately. 

Baked Red Snapper 

Red Snapper d la Criole 
A Fine Red Snapper, 3 Pounds in 

Weight. 

2 Dozen Oysters. 2 Dozen Boiled 

Shrimp. 

1 Dozen Boiled Crawfish. 

2 Large Onions. 2 Tablespoonfuls t)f 

Butter. 
1 Cup of Stale Bread Crumbs. 

3 Large Tomatoes. H Can of Mush- 

rooms. 

3 Sprigs Bach of Thyme and Parsley. 

2 Bay Leaves. 6 Allspice. 3 Cloves. 

Salt and Pepper. 

Clean and wash the Red Snapper 
thoroughly. Make a cut in the shape 
of the letter "S" on the back and 
stuff this with spice, thyme, clove and 
bay leaf, chopped fine. Rub thor- 
oughly inside and out with salt and 
pepper. Make a good stuffing by tak- 
ing one dozen oysters, one cup of stale 
bread crumbs, wet and squeezed of all 
water, one large onion chopped fine. 
a half teaspoonful* of salt and a little 
black pepper. Mix well and fry in a 
pan with a tablespoonful of butter. 
Stuff the body of the fish and sew up 
with soft thread. Lard well — that is. 
rub thoroughly with lard — and place 
in the oven. Pour over immediately 
a pint of warm water, and let the fish 
bake well. In the meantime prepare 
the following sauce: Take one large 
tablespoonful of butter, one large 
chopped onion, one sprig of thyme, 
one bay leaf. Brown the onion and 
butter, being careful not to burn, and 
put in three tomatoes; add the 
chopped herbs; brown and add a pint 
of oyster water which has been heated 
by blanching the oysters. (Blanching 
means to place the oysters on the fire 
in their own water and heat thor- 
oughly without boiling.) Season the 
sauce with pepper and salt to taste. 
Have ready in another dish one dozen 
parboiled or blanched oysters and two 
dozen boiled shrimp. Put the flsh in 
the dish in which it is to be served; 
garnish with the oysters and shrimp, 
placing them over the flsh, and add 
about a half can of boiled mu.shrooms. 
Have also ready a dozen nicely boiled 
crawfish. Garnish the flsh with these, 
placing them all around it in the dish 



in which it is to be served. Pour the 
sauce over all and set in the oven and 
bake a few minutes longer and serve 
hot. 

A Simple Every-day Recipe for 
Baking R€*d Snapper. 

Red Snapper au Oratin 

1 Fine 3 pound Red Snapper. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Large Onion. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Cup of Stale Bread Crumbs. ■ 

% Teacup of Water. Salt and Pepper. 

Select a fine, large fish, clean and 
wash thoroughly. Make a dressing by 
taking one cup of stale bread, wet 
and squeezed of all water; one large 
onion and three sprigs of parsley. 
Chop the onions and parsley fine and 
mix with the bread crumbs and fry 
in a spoonful of butter, seasoning well 
with salt and pepper. Stuff the fish 
and sew up with a soft thread. Then 
rub the fish thoroughly with salt and 
pepper and butter. Put small pieces 
of butter all over the fish and add a 
few pieces on the bottom of the bak- 
ing pan. Pour in water to the depth of 
two inches, cover the pan and bake 
about an hour and a half. 

Red Snapper k la Chambord. 

A Fine Red Snapper. 3 Pounds in 

Weight. 

2 Dozen Oysters. % Can Mushrooms. 

3 Larg:e Tomatoes. 2 Large Onions. 

1 Cup of Stale Bread. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

2 Hay Leaves. 6 Allspice. 3 Cloves. 

Salt and Pepper. 

Clean and wash the Red Snapper 
carefully. Cut a space six inches 
square on the surface of the upper 
side of the fish, and carefully remove 
the skin within the enclosed space. 
Then lard this space closely with very 
fine larding needles, and fill in with 
spice, thyme, clove and bay leaf, all 
minced very fine. Rub thoroughly in- 
side and outside with salt. Make a 
good stuffing by taking one dozen oys- 
ters, one cup of stale bread crumbs, 
wet and squeezed of all water; one 
large onion, chopped fine; a half ta- 
blespoonful of salt and black pepper 
to taste. Mix well and fry in a pan 
with a tablespoonful of butter. Stuff 
the body of the flsh and sew up with 
soft thread. Lard well, and, after rub- 
bing thoroughly with the lard, place 
in the oven. Pour over immediately 
one cup of warm water and let the 
flsh bake well. In the meantime pre- 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



37 



pare the follcxwlnff sauce: Take one 
large tablespoonful of butter, one 
large chopped onion, one sprig of 
thyme, one of bay leaf. Brown the 
onion and butter, being careful not 
to burn, and put in three large toma- 
toes. Add the chopped herbs, brown 
and add the pint of oyster water, 
which has been heated with blanching 
the oysters. (Blanching means to 
place the oysters on the Are in their 
own water and heat thoroughly with- 
out boiling.) Season the sauce with 
pepper and salt to taste. Put the flsh 
in the dish in which it is to be served, 
and garnish with the oysters, placing 
them over the flsh and mingling be- 
tween about a half can of boiled 
mushrooms. After garnishing the flsh 
nicely, pour the sauce over all and set 
in the oven a few minutes longer and 
serve hot. 

Red Snapper With Tomato Sauce. 

Red Snapper d la Sauce Tomate 
A Pine Red Snapper, 3 Pounds in 

Weight. 

12 Large Tomatoes or a Can. 

^ Can of Mushrooms. 

2 Large Onions. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

2 Bay Leaves. 6 Allspice. 3 Cloves. 

% Inch of Garlic or 1 Clove. 

1 Cup of Stale Bread Crumbs. 

1 Large Tablespoonful of Butter, or 

Olive Oil. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Salt and Red Pepper. 

Prepare the flsh, following the di- 
rections given in the recipe for Red 
Snapper k la Creole to the point of 
larding thoroughly. Pour one cup of 
warm water over the flsh. When the 
flsh is done, put one tablespoonful of 
olive oil or one large tablespoonful of 
butter into a saucepan, and one large 
chopped onion and brown; add one 
tablespoonful of flour and let the 
same brown. Then take the sliced and 
chopped fresh tomatoes, or strain a 
can of tomatoes in lieu of the former, 
and add to the sauce. Add a half 
can of mushrooms chopped flne. Place 
in the sauce the bouquet of sweet 
herbs, thyme, bay leaf, and add an 
inch of garlic, minced very flne. Sea- 
son with red pepper only. Pour this 
sauce over the baked flsh after placing 
it In the dish in which it is to be 
served; set in the oven a few minutes 
and bring to the table hot. 

• Redflsh, Sheepshead and Grouper 
may also be cooked according to this 
recipe. 



A Simple Way of Baking Redflsh. 

Poisson Rouge au Oratin 
6 Slices of Redflsh or a Flsh Weighing 

3 Pounds. 

2 Large Onions. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

3 Sprigs of Thyme. 1 Bay Leaf. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A Hollandaise Sauce. 

Clean the outer edges well of the 
flns; wash and then rub the flsh well 
with salt and pepper. Prepare some 
chopped onion and parsley and lay in 
a deep baking pan. Place a layer of 
flsh over this and then a layer of 
small lumps of butter and chopped 
parsley and onion. Place over this an- 
other layer of flsh. Cover with another 
layer of chopped parsley, onions and 
butter, and place in the oven to bake. 
Bake about an hour, basting frequent- 
ly, and serve with a Hollandaise 
sauce. (See recipe.) 

Baked Grouper. 

Grouper au Oratin 

A Fine Grouper (weight 3 pounds). 

J Dozen Oysters. 2 Dozen Boiled 

Shrimp. 

1 Dozen Boiled Crawfish. 

2 Large Onions. 2 Tablespoonfuls of 

Butter. 
1 Cup of Stale Bread. 
2 Large Tomatoes. ^ Can of Mush- 
rooms. 
3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 
2 Bay Leaves. 6 Allspice. 3 Cloves. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean and wash the Grouper thor- 
oughly. Make a cut in the shape of 
the letter "S" on the back and stuff 
this with spice, thyme, clove .and bay 
.leaf, chopped flne. Rub thoroughly 
inside and out with salt and pepper. 
Make a good stufllng by taking one 
dozen oysters, one cup of stale bread 
crumbs, wet and squeezed of all wa- 
ter, one large onion, chopped flne, a 
half teaspoonful of salt and a little 
black pepper. Mix well and fry In a 
pan with a tablespoonful of butter. 
Stuff the body of the flsh and sew up 
with soft thread. Lard well — that is, 
rub thoroughly with lard — and place 
in the oven. Pour over immediately 
a cup of warm water, and let the flsh 
bake well. In the meantime prepare 
the following sauce, k la Chambord: 
Take one large tablespoonful of but- 
ter, one large chopped onion, one 
sprig of thyme, one bay leaf. Brown 
the onion and butter, being careful 
not to burn, and put In three large 
tomatoes: add the chopped herbs: 
brown and add a pint of oyster water, 



38 



THE PICAYUNE GREOIiE GOOK BOOK 



which has been heated by blanching: 
the oysters. (Blanchingr means to 
place the oysters on the fire in their 
own water and heat thoroughly with 7 
out boiling.) Season the sauce witli 
salt and pepper to taste. Have ready 
in another dish one dozen parboiled 
or blanched oysters and two dozen 
boiled shrimp. Put the fish in the 
dish in which it is to be served, gar- 
nish with the oysters and shrimp, 
placing them over the fish, and min- 
gle between about a half can of boiled 
mushrooms. Have also ready a dozen 
nicely boiled crawfish. Garnish the 
fish with these, placing them all 
around it in the dish in which it is 
to be served. Pour the sauce over all 
and set in the oven and bake a terw 
minutes longer and serve hot. Where 
economy is desired Grouper may be 
boiled or baked according to the more 
simple methods given above for cook- 
ing Red Snapper. (See recipes "Boiled 
Red Snapper" and *'Red Snapper au 
Gratin.") 

FLOUNDER. 

Sole 
The Creoles gave to the Flounder, 
one of the finest fish found in the 
waters of the Mexican Gulf, the 
French name "Sole," because while 
the fish was somewhat different in 
size and shape, they found that the 
meat of the Flounder was identically 
the same as that of the "Sole" found 
in the waters of the Mediterranean 
sea. Qxiick to discover and appre- 
ciate, they applied to the Flounder 
the name "Sole," an4 adapted it to 
the French modes of cooking the lat- 
ter fish, especially applying to it the 
famous old French recipe "Sole fi. la 
Orly." Otherwise in New Orleans the 
Flounder is always either fried and 
served with a sauce **k la Tartare," or 
baked "a, la Nouvelle Orleans," or "a. 
la Normande," or served with a sauce 
as in Baked Sheepshead. (See recipe 
"Baked Sheepshead," or "Casburgot 
au Gratln.") 

Floander h la Orly. 

Filet 8 de Sole A la Orly 

6 Filets of Flounder. A Cup of Milk. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Egg. Bread Crumbs. A Tomato 

Sauce. 
Parsley to Garnish. 

Have the fish dealer cut the Floun- 
der in filets and trim, neatly removing 



all the bones. Beat an egg with milk, 
and dip ip the slices of fish. Roll 
in bread crumbs and fry in butter. 
Serve with parsley garnish, -with a 
Tomato Sauce. (See recipe.) 

Flounders k la Tartai^. 

Soles Fritcs d la Tartare 

3 Pounds of Flounders. 3 Kgga. 

10 Tablespoonfuls of Olive Oil. 

A Bunch of Parsley. 1 Sliced L«inon. 

A Sauce & la Tartare. 

Clean and trim the Flounders. Beat 
well two or three raw eggs. Have 
ready a frying pan, with eight or ten 
tablespoonfuls of olive oil. Place over 
the fire. When well heated, dip the 
fish into the eggs, roll w^ell and place 
in the frying pan. Cook for about 
five minutes, turn on the other side, 
and cook about the same period. Then 
drain by placing on a heated brown 
paper. Garnish a dish with a bed 
of fried parsley, lay the Flounders 
upon it and garnish with sliced lemon 
Serve with Sauce k la Tartare. (See 
recipe. ) 

Flounder k la Normande 

Sole d la Normande 

A 3-pound Flounder. 8 Shallots. 

3 Bay Leaves. 3 Sprigs of Thyme. 

1 Clove of Qarlic. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

2 Cups of Bouillon or Water. 

The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 1 Can of 

Mushrooms. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A Dash of Cayenne. Croutons Cut In 

Dice Shape. 

Cut open the Flounder down the 
back. Dig inside under bone to right 
and left, without breaking the meat. 
Chop the bay leaves, thyme and clove 
of garlic very, very fine and mix with 
a half teaspoonful salt and a half 
teaspoonful of black pepper and a 
dash of Cayenne. Rub the Flounder 
all over on the inside and under the 
cutting and outside with this prepara- 
tion, seasoning thoroughly. Chop the 
shallots, green and white, very fine. 
Put a tablespoonful of butter in a flat 
saucepan or stewing dish, and put the 
shallots with the butter. Lay the 
Flounder on top of the shallots and 
butter, and let it cook slowly on a 
slow fire for about ten minutes. Then 
turn on the other side and cook ten 
minutes longer. In the meantime 
take another saucepan and put into 
it one tablespoonful of butter and two 
of flour. Dissolve this imirsdiately 



THE PICAYUNE CREX>IjE COOK BOOK 



39 



with two cups of bouillon or water 
so that the sauce will be white. Let 
it cook about five minutes, and then 
add the well-beaten yolks of the eggs, 
and one can of mushrooms. Let all 
cook ten minutes longer, and then 
take the Flounder out of the saucepan 
in which it has been cooking and lay 
on a flat dish; then mix the sauce in 
which it has been cooking with the 
mushroom sauce. Taste the sauce and 
add salt, pepper and Cayenne, accord- 
ing to taste. Pour this sauce over the 
flsh, around which you will have 
placed Crotitons cut as dice and fried 
and then cover the flsh, and put it 
to bake in the oven for fifteen minutes. 
Serve hot in the dish in which it was 
baked. 

Flounders k la XouvcUe Orleans 

Sole d la Nouvelle Orleang 

A 3-pound Flounder. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 6 Allspice. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 

2 Sprigs of Parsley. 1 Sprig of Sweet 

Basil. 

1 Can of Mushrooms. Croutons. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Select a fine, fresh Flounder, par- 
boil, by scalding well after it has been 
put in butter and salt, and set to bake 
in an oven. When it is two-thirds 
cooked, take ofT and pour over a 
cream sauce made of two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, one tablespoon of butter, 
spice, thyme, parsley, sweet basil and 
bay leaf, a can of mushrooms, all 
chopped flne, and cook about five min- 
utes. After ^pouring this over the 
flsh, slit open in scores on top, put 
back in the oven and let it bake till 
done, which will be about fifteen 
minutes. Prepare Croutons, or crusts 
of bread cut in diamond shape, fry 
these in butter and use as a garnish 
for the flsh. 

Baked Flounder 

Sole au Oratin 

A 3-pound Flounder. 1 Large Onion. 

2 Tablespoons of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

6 Fresh Tomatoes. 

2 Dozen Lake Shrimp. 

1 Dozen Oysters. 

% Can of Mushrooms. 

2 Crackers, Dry Toast. 

Cut in Dice Shape. 

Clean and wash the fish; place on a 
platter; chop one large onion fine, rub 
the fteh first with salt and black pep- 
per, then take a large and deep 



kitchen pan, place within a table- 
spoonful of butter, the chopped onion, 
bay leaf and thyme. Place the fish 
on top of this and pour over a half 
cup of warm water. Cover with an- 
other close pan and put the whole 
in the top of the oven. Bake from the 
bottom. When it begins to boil from 
below, turn the flsh over carefully 
without breaking, and let it bake on 
the other side. Put into a saucepan 
a very large tablespoonful of butter 
and mix thoroughly with two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Let it brown with- 
out burning, and then add six fresh 
tomatoes, skinned and chopped flne, or 
a half can. Add two dozen Lake 
Shrimp that have been cleaned well, 
and scalded, a half can of mushrooms, 
salt and pepper to taste. Let all cook 
for about flve minutes and then water 
with the gravy in which the flsh is 
cooking. Mix well and cover the flsh 
with it. Parboil one dozen oysters, 
and when the flsh is cooked, set it in 
the dish in which it is to be served 
and place the oysters all around it on 
small slices of dry toast. Cover the 
flsh alternately with the shrimp and 
oysters as a garnish over and around 
it. Mash two crackers into crumbs 
and sprinkle over it; also some flnely 
chopped parsley. Place some bits of 
butter over the flsh; set the dish in 
the oven, and bake with a quick fire 
until brown. Serve immediately. 



POMPANO 

Pompano is the crowning glory of 
the flsh of the New Orleans market. 
It is peculiar to the waters of the 
Gulf of Mexico, Mississippi Sound and 
the Louisiana Grand Isle shore. The 
word Pompano is derived from the 
Spanish "Pampano," signifying a pe- 
culiar greenish-tinted plant, and the 
name "Pompano" was given to the 
fish by the early Spanish fishermen 
on account of the delicate greenish 
color which distinguishes it. Nothing 
to be compared with the Pompano 
exists in the Northern, Eastern or 
Western waters, and no stranger 
leaves New Orleans without having 
tasted once of this delightful flsh. The 
New Orleans Pompano has a world- 
wide fame. The Pompano used to 
come in the early spring and remain 
but a few weeks, hence the flrst fish 
that appeared in the French Market 
were eagerly sought after as a great 



40 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



luxury. Pompano are more plentiful 
now and are to be found In the mar- 
ket almost all the year round. 

Pompano & la Maltre d'Hotel 

A Fine Pompano, or Small Ones in 

Weight to Equal Three Founds. 

A Tableapoonful of Olive Oil. 

A Tablespoonful of Butter. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

A Sliced Lemon. Parsley to Garnish. 

Sauce ft la Maitre d'Hotel. 

There is only one way to cook Pom- 
pano and that is to broil it and serve 
with a Sauce k la Maitre d'Hotel. 

To broil the Pompano split the fish 
in the middle of the back if the fish is 
large; if small, broil whole. Season 
well by rubbing* with salt and pepper, 
mixed with a little sweet oil. Put the 
Pompano on the broiler and see that 
it is browned well on both sides, us- 
ing always the double wire broiler. 
When done, place in a heated dish 
(heat by placing in a bain-marie or 
hot water bath and dry thoroughly). 
Butter the fish nicely and squeeze the 
Juice of a lemon over it. Garnish 
with parsley and sliced lemon, and 
serve with a Sauce & la Maitre d'Hotel. 
(See recipe.) You will have a dish 
that a king might envy. 

SPANISH MACKEREL 

Maquereau E$pagnol 
Spanish Mackerel is another delicate 
and delicious fish, only to be found in 
the waters of the Gulf of Mexico. The 
Gulf of Mexico was, in early Creole 
days, a part of the vast expanse known 
as '*The Waters of the Spanish Main." 
The early Spanish fishermen found 
here a fish resembling the mackerel, 
but of a dainty delicacy of flavor far 
superior to any mackerel yet known 
to epicures, ^and they gave to It the 
name "Spanish Mackerel." It stands 
on an equal footing with the Pom- 
pano in the estimation of epicures. 
The Spanish Mackerel should always 
be broiled. It is a splendid break- 
fast dish and a famous entree at din- 
ners. 

Broiled Spanish Mackerel 

Maquereau Eapagnol OriUce 

A Spanish Mackerel of 3 Pounds. 

1 Tablespoonful of Olive Oil. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 1 Sliced Lemon. 

Parsley to Garnish. 

Sauce k la Maitre d'Hotel. 

Prepare in the same manner as the 

Pompano, serving whole. Where the 

fish is large, split downwards, in the 



middle of the back, and broil in the 
same manner as the Pompano, and 
place on a dish garnished with pars- 
ley and slices of lemon. Serve with 
a Sauce & la Maitre d'Hotel. (See 
recipe.) These are special recipes, 
used only in broiling Pompano and 
Spanish Mackerel. 

BliUEFISH 

Le PoUson Bleu 
A Fine Blueflsh, or Fish in Quantity to 
Equal 3 Pounds. 
1 Tablespoonful of Olive Oil. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Sliced Lemon. The Juice of X Lemon. 
Parsley to Garnish. 
Sauce & la Maitre d'Hotel. 
The Blueflsh is a splendid fish of 
the salt-water variety and much sought 
after. It should always be broiled. 
Split the fish in the middle of the 
back if the fish is large; if small, broil 
whole. Season well by rubbing with 
salt and pepper, mixed with a little 
sweet oil. Put the fish on the broiler 
and see that it is browned well on 
both sides, using always the double 
wire broiler. When done, place in a 
heated dish (heat by placing in a bain 
marie or hot-water bath and dry thor- 
oughly). Butter the fish nicely and 
squeeze the Juice of a lemon over it. 
Garnish with parsley and sliced lemon 
and serve with a Sauce & la Maitre 
d'Hotel. (See recipe.) 

TROUT 

De la TruitC' 
Of fine and delicate flavor, the 
Green Trout and Speckled. Trout are 
great favorites in the New Orleans 
cuisines. . Trout is especially recom- 
mended as a breakfast dish. It may 
be broiled or boiled. Tenderloin 
Trout cut into filets, or cutlets, is also 
fried and makes a most palatable dish. 
The Salt-Water and Fresh-Water 
Trout, both are excellent. 

Boiled Green Trout 

Truite Vertc Bouillie 

6 Medium-Sized Trout, or 3 Large Ones. 

A Kettle of Boiling Water. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 1 Sprig of Onion. 

A Clove of Garlic (if desired). 10 Cloves. 

2 Dozen Allspice. 

A Seedless Red Pepper Pod. 

A Bit of Lemon Peel. 

Parsley and Lemon to Garnish. 

Select flno fresh Trout. Clean and 
wash the fish thoroughly. Make a 
small letter "S" with knife on the 
the fish so as to secure it. Never 






THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



41 



wrap or tie in a cloth. Have ready 
a kettle of boiling water and throw 
In a sprigr of onion, thyme and bay 
leaf, eight or ten cloves, about two 
dozen allspice, all mashed flne; a 
bit of lemon peel and a red pepper 
pod. When the water has boiled long 
enough to have extracted the flavor 
of these ingredients, droo the flsh In 
carefully, so as to avoid breaking. 
Let it boil about ten minutes and then 
take out carefully. Put into a strainer 
and drain quickly. Place on a platter 
on a bed of parsley, with chopped 
parsley thrown over, and garnish with 
parsley and sliced lemon. Serve with 
a drawn-butter Hollandaise Sauce or 
Sauce Genolse (See recipe.) If the 
flavor of the spices is not desired the 
flsh may be boiled simply in the salt 
and pepper water, with sprigs of 
parsley. 

The Creoles add a clove of garlic 
to the boiling water, but this is ac- 
cording to taste. 

Broiled Green Trout 

Truite Verte OHlUe 
6 Medium-Sized Trout, or 3 Large Ones. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. Juice of 1 

Lemon. 
1 Sliced Lemon and Parsley to Garnish. 

Follow implicitly the directions 
given under the heading "General 
Rule for Broiling Flsh." (See recipe.) 
Clean the flsh without cutting oflF the 
head or tail. Broil whole over a clear, 
moderate flre. Before placing on the 
broiler rub the flsh well with salt 
and pepper mixed in a little sweet 
oil or a little butter. If the fl.sh is 
small, broil on a quick, clear flre; if 
large, as mentioned above, the flre 
must be moderate, or the outside of 
the flsh will be charred before the in- 
side is done. When the flsh is done 
through and through, which can easily 
be determined by the flesh parting 
easily from the bone, remove the grid- 
iron from the flre and loosen the flsh 
from the broiler with a knife, being 
careful not to break the flesh. Then 
place the hot dish over the flsh. and, 
with a dexterous movement, turn the 
two back again, thus separating the 
gridiron from the fish and placing the 
latter in the dish. Butter well, season 
with a little pepper and salt, if deemed 
necessary, and pour over a tablespoon-, 
ful of chopped parsley and lemon 
juice. Serve with garnishes of pars- 
ley and sliced lemon. 



Speckled Trout 

Truite9 ChilUes 

6 Filets of Speckled Trout. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Parsley and Sliced Lemon to Garnish. 

The Speckled Trout is usually served 
in tenderloin steaks or fllets. Skin and 
cut the flsh, after cleaning, into filets 
or square pieces, slicing across the 
back. Remove all the bones and rub 
well with pepper and salt, and a little 
sweet oil mixed with the pepper and 
salt. Place on the gridiron or doublo 
broiler and broil carefully, turning 
the broiler frequently to prevent the 
fish being charred before it is done. 
When nicely browned, place on a bed 
of parsley and garnish with sliced 
lemon. Serve with Sauce k la Tartare. 
(See recipe.) 



Fried Speckled Trout. 

Truite Frite 

6 Filets of Speckled Trout. 

The Tolks of 2 Eggs. 1 Cup of Milk. 

1 Onion. 4 Sprigs of Parsley. 

2 Gills of Mustard. 

^ Pint of Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Parsley and Sliced Lemon to Garnish. 

Skin the fish and clean thoroughly. 
Then cut the Trout into filets or 
steaks. Take the yolks of two eggs 
and a little milk and beat together. 
Add salt and pepper and soak the 
Trout well in this, rolling over and 
over. Then take it out of the pan and 
roll in cracker or bread crumbs. Pat 
the fish a little all over with your 
hands and then fry in the same man- 
ner as Croakers. Serve on a bed of 
fried parsley, with garnish of sliced 
lemon, with the following Sauce d, la 
Tartare: Take one larg» onion and 
four or five sprigs of parsley and chop 
fine. Squeeze the Juice out 'vi^ell and 
parboil, chopping fine and squeezing 
out the water. Prepare about one- 
half pint of Mayonnaise Dressing (see 
recipe) and add about two gills of 
mustard. Mix well and add to the 
parsley and onion and Juices. Serve 
the saQce cold. 



Cutlets of ¥\sXi 

Filets de PoUton 
6 Tenderloin Trout Cutlets. 1 Cup of 

Milk. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Parsley and Sliced Lemon to Garnish. 

A Mayonnaise Sauce, or Sauce 2l la 

Tartare. 

Cut the flsh (Tenderloin Trout) into 
fllets or square pieces; remove all the 



42 



THE PICAYUNE CKBOIjB OOOK BOOK 



bones, dip in milk which has been 
back; pass twine around the body of 
freely salted and peppered, and roll 
in flour; drop into the well-heated 
lard so that the filets will swim and 
fry to a golden brown. When done, 
drain on brown paper and serve on 
a bed of fried parsley, with garnishes 
of parsley and sliced lemon. With 
these cutlets serve either a Mayon- 
naise Sauce, a Sauce & la Tartare or 
Tomato Sauce. (See recipes for 
sauces. ) 

PERCH 

De la Perche 
The Perch is a fresh-water fish of 
delightful flavor. It should always 
be boiled or broiled. 

Boiled Peroh 

Perche Bouille 

6 Fine Fresh Perch. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 1 Sprig of Onion. 

1 Clove of Garlic (if desired). 

10 Cloves. 

2 Dozen Allspice. A Bit of Lemon Peel. 

1 Red Pepper Pod, without the Seed. 

Parsley and Lemon to Garnish. 

Select fine, fresh Perch. Clean and 
wash the fish well. Make a small 
letter "S" with a knife on the back. 
Pass a piece of twine around the body, 
so as to secure it. Have ready a ket- 
tle of boiling water, and throw in a 
sprig of onion, thyme and bay leaf, 
the cloves and allspice, mashed fine, 
a bit of lemon peel and the red pep- 
per pod. When the water has boiled 
long enough to have fully extracted 
the flavor of tl)ese ingredients, drop 
the fish in carefully, so as to avoid 
breaking. Let it boil ten minutes, and 
then take out carefully and drain 
quickly in a. strainer. Place in a dish 
on a bed of parsley, sprinkle chopped 
parsley over it and garnish with pars- 
ley and sliced lemon. The spices may 
be omitted if not agreeable, and the 
Perch may be simply boiled in the 
salt and pepper water with the sprigs 
of parsley thrown in. Serve with a 
Drawn-Butter Sauce or Shuce Genoise. 
(See recipes.) 

Broiled Perch 

Perche Qrillic 
6 Fine Perch. 2 Tablespoonfuls of 

Butter. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

1 Sliced Lemon. Parsley to Garnish, 

Proceed in the same manner indi- 
cated under the heading ''General 
Rules for Broiling Fish." (See recipe.) 



If large, split the fish down the mid- 
dle of the back, else broil whole. Serve 
with garnishes of parsley and sliced 
lemon. A row of radishes nicely 
dressed is often added to the garnisti 
when it is made of lettuce leaves, and 
sliced, hard-boiled eggs. 

Croakers 

Dee Oroffnarde 

12 Small or Six Large Croakers. 

1 Pint of Milk. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Parsley and Sliced Lemon to Garnish. 

Croakers are a famous breakfast 
fish. They are most delicious when 
fried. To fry Croakers properly fill a 
small pan with milk, and add salt 
and pepper to taste. Boil the Croakers 
in the milk and then take out and 
roll in dry, sifted flour. Have ready 
a pan of grease that has been heated 
very hot without boiling. Drop in 
the Croakers and cook till brown. 
The fish must swim in the grease. 
Lift carefully out of the frying pan 
and serve on a bed of fried parsley, 
with garnishes of sliced lemon. 

Sacaiait-Patassas 

These are delightfully flavored fish 
of the small variety found In the 
Louisiana waters. They are excellent 
either fried, as in recipe for Croakers, 
or broiled whole. 



Fish Chowder 

MiUe Creole 

2 Pounds of Fresh Fish, Preferably 

Redflsh or Sheepshead. 

3 Medium-sized Potatoes. 

1 Onion. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme, Parsley and 

Bay Leaf. 
J^ Can of Tomatoes. % Cup of Milk. 

1 Quart of Boiling Water. 
2 Ounces of Salt Pork or Ham Chopped 

Very Fine. 

Grated Oyster Crackers. 

Salt, Cayenne and ^lack Pepper to 

Taste. 

Cut two pounds of fresh fish of any 
kind, preferably the Redflsh or 
Sheepshead. Take three medium-sized 
potatoes and one onion and cut Into 
slices. Take two ounces of salt pork, 
wash well and chop very fine. Put 
the pork Into a frying pan, and when 
It is hot add the sliced onion. Smother 
slightly, and add chopped thyme, 
parsley, bay leaf, one clove of garlic, 
very fine, and Cayenne and black pep- 
per to taste. Let this simmer for 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



43 



about ten minutes longer. Pour over 
this one quart of bolllngr water, and 
add flsh and half a can of tomatoes 
and the potatoes. Season to taste, 
and cover the pan and let the con- 
tents simmer for half an hour. A half 
cup of milk may be added, If desired. 
Take oyster crackers, place In a bowl 
and pour the chowder over and serve 
hot. 

Fish Balls 

Boulcttes dv Poisbun 
The Remains of Any Fish. 1 .Largre 

Onion. 

1 Sprig: of Thyme. 3 Sprlgrs of Parsley. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 'Egg. Bread Crumbs. 

A Dash of Cayenne. 

Take the remains of any flsh, sea- 
son well with chopped parsley, onions, 
thyme and Cayenne, and a touch of 
garlic If the flavor is liked. Then 
mince all well, adding a tablespoonful 
of butter and mix it with one-third 
bread crumbs, mashed well. Beat tho 
yolk and white of an egg and roll the 
balls, shaped in the form of a cake, 
in this. Pat with bread crumbs and 
fry In butter to a pale brown. 

liouislana Eels 

De I'Anguille 
Few of the American residents of 
New Orleans know the possibilities 
of preparing a most delightful dish 
that lurks in the often-rejected eel. 
But the Creoles inherited the taste of 
their French ancestors, who consid- 
ered eels a delicacy, and have evolved 
from the traditional recipes of old 
France pleasing and various ways of 
serving this flsh. The most generally 
used in households Is called 

Eels en Matelote 

Or, More B^amlliarly, Matelote d'Anauille 
2 Pounds of Rel, or a 2-Pound Fish. 

1 Large On* on. 
Pint of Button Onions. 1 Clove of 

Garlic. 
1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 
1 Can of Mushrooms. 

1 Pint of Oyster Water. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

Croutons to Garnish. 

Matelote d'Anguille is a famous old 
Creole dish. The following is the old 
Creole recipe, and when once eaten 
after this mode of preparation, there 
is seldom a refusal to give the eel its 
due credit as a dish flt for the most 
fastidious gourmet. 



Clean and skin the eel, using about 
two pounds. Cut in one-inch or two- 
inch pieces, as desired. Take one large 
onion and a half pint of button onions, 
or a clove or garlic, and chop flne. 
Make a roux with one tablespoonful 
of lard, adding, when hot, the chopped 
onions and parsley, and gradually 
adding, when these begin to brown, 
the two tablespoonfuls of flour. Pour 
in one cup of warm water and a can 
of mushrooms. Add a pint of oyster 
stock or oyster water, and let cook 
a while. Season to taste with Cayenne 
and salt, adding the bay leaf and 
thyme. When it boils, add the eels 
that have been thoroughly cleansed 
and placed in cool water and allowed 
to stand about flfteen minutes. When 
these are added to the matelote, let 
it simmer about an hour. Serve with 
fancy garnish of CroQtons. 

Fried Eels 

AnguUlea Friteg 

A 2-Pound Eel. 2 Eggs. 

Mashed Bread Crumbs. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean and skin the eel and place in 
boiling water and vinegar till thor- 
oughly disgorged. Cut into lengths of 
two inches. Wipe dry. Beat two eggs 
well and add mashed br^d crumbs. 
Roll the eel well in this preparation 
and fry In hot lard, following im- 
plicitly the directions given for fry- 
ing, and remembering that the flsh 
must always swim in the grease. Drain 
oil all grease and serve on a bed of 
parsley. 

Eels k la Maitre d'Hdtel 

AnguUlea d la Maitre d'HOtel 

2 Pounds of Eel. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 
1 Bay Leaf. 6 Cloves. 

1 Dozen Allspice. 

1 Onion Chopped Fine. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

A Sauce A la Tartare. 

A Half Cup of Lemon Juice. 

Fried Potato Balls. 

Cut and clean the eel as directed 
and boil about twenty minutes in salt 
and water, putting a great quantity 
of salt into the kettle, and adding 
the thyme, bay leaf, cloves, allspice, 
chopped onion, and garlic. Remove 
the eels after cooking twenty minutes 
and serve on a dish garnished with 
parsley and fried potato balls. Serve 
with a Sauce k la Maltro d'HOtel (see 
recipe), only be careful to add about 
a half cup of lemon juice to the sauce. 



44 



THE PICAYUlfE CBJSOIiE CXX>K BOOK 



Broiled Eels ^ 

Anguillea QrilUet 

2 Pounds of Eel. 1 Sprlgr of Thyme. 

1 Teaspoonful of Black Pepper. 

^ Teaspoonful of Salt. 

A Drawn Butter Sauce or Sauce A 

la Tartare. 

Clean and skin the eel as for fry- 
ing. Cut in two -inch pieces and boil 
till disgorged. Then roll in oil and 
pepper and salt. Mix well and broil 
quickly over a clear Are. Serve with 
melted or Drawn Butter Sauce and 
pickles, or a Sauce & la Tartare. 

Eels h la Poulette 

AnguUles d la Poulette 
2 Pounds of Eel. 1 Cup of Hot Vinegar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Can of Mushrooms. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 1 Sprig of Sweet 

Basil. 2 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Onion Minced Very Fine. 

The Yolks of 3 Eggs. Juice of 2 

Lemons. 

A Dash of Cayenne, Salt and Pepper to 

Taste. 
CroQtons and Sliced Lemon to Garnish. 

Clean and skin the eels and put in 
a pot of boiling water. To be sure 
that they disgorge thoroughly add a 
cup of hot vinegar. After boiling fif- 
teen minutes, take them out and cut 
into three-inch pieces. Take one 
tablespoonful of butter, put into a fry- 
ing pan, and add the eels and one 
can of mushrooms poured over. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed 
smoothly in butter as the eels begin 
to fry. Add parsley, thyme, bay leaf, 
sweet basil, and an onion minced like 
the herbs, very fine. As the grease 
rises, floating, skim it oflF. Add a lit- 
tle Cayenne, and salt to taste, if nec- 
essary. When quite done, take the 
yolks of three eggs and mix thor- 
oughly with the juice of two lemons. 
Take the eels off the fire and add the 
lemon Juice and eggs and be careful 
not to set back on the fire when once 
these are added, or the eggs wil! 
curdle. Place on a dish and garnish 
with Crodtons and slices of lemon and 
serve hot. 

Stlngaree 

De la Raie 
The Stlngaree is a fish that the 
Americans laugh at, not dreaming of 
the possibilities for a delicate dish 
that lurks within its wings. The 
Creoles, following in the wake of their 
French ancestors, who ate the Stlnga- 
ree found in the waters of the Medi- 
terranean, have evolved a different 



dish from the old French cuisinidres, 
but one that holds its own even among: 
the many distinguished French critics 
and gourmets who have visited our 
shores. It is called Raie au Beurre 
Nolr. 

Stlngaree aa Beurre Xolr 

Raie au Beurre Noir 

A Fine Young Stlngaree. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

A Handful of Chopped Parsley. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon, or 1 Spoon of 

French Vinegar. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Take a fine young Stlngaree and cut 
off the tail. Cut the -wings from the 
body and throw away the rest of the 
flsh. Throw the wings into boiling 
water and parboil them. When boiled 
ten minutes, take them out of the 
water and then take all the skin off. 
The flesh will then become as white 
as snow. Put one tablespoonful of 
butter in a frying pan and let it brown 
without burning. When a nice coffee 
color, add a handful of chopped pars- 
ley and let it brown for a half minute. 
Then add the Juice of ohe lemon or 
a spoonful of French vinegar. Pour 
this over the flsh, salt and pepper to 
taste, and serve hot. This is a dish 
much affected by Creole connoisseurs. 

Fried Stlngaree 

Raie Frite 

A Fine Young Stlngaree. 

A Pint of French Vinegar. 

A Handful of Parsley Minced Very 

Fine. 

A Teaspoon of Salt. Parsley to 

Garnish. 

A Sauce Polvrade. 

Prepare the Stlngaree wings as di- 
rected in the above recipe. Cut them 
into square pieces of about three In- 
ches and let these soak in the vinegar 
which has been charged with the salt 
and minced parsley. Then roll in 
ess and bread crumbs and fry in 
boiling lard. Drain and serve on a 
bed of fried parsley with the Sauce 
Polvrade. (See recipe.) 

Stlngaree With Caper Sauce 

Raie Sauce auw Caprea 
A Fine Young Stlngaree. A Caper 

Sauce. 
Salt and Boiling Water. 

Cut off the tail of the Stlngaree. Cut 
off the wings, and throw the rest of 
the flsh away. Throw the wings into 
boiling water charged with salt, and 
parboil them for flfteen or twenty 
minutes. Then take them out of the 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLiE COOK BOOK 



45 



water and skin thoroughly. Place in 
a heated dish and pour over a Caper 
Sauce. (See recipe.) 

Stingarettes 

Raitons 
This name is given to the little Stin- 
garees. They are prepared Just like 
the larger ones, the wings only being 
used. These are soaked in vinegar 
and a little salt, and then fried, after 
being rolled in bread crumbs and 
beaten egg. Place on a bed of fried 
parsley and serve. 

ROE 

OeufB de Pai$9on 
1 Dozen Boe. 2 Tablespoonfuls of 

Butter. 

The Juice of a Lemon. 

Lemon Sliced in Quarters. 

Fish eggs are a great delicacy for 
dinner or breakfast table. The only 
eggs of flsh that are used as an epi- 
curean dish in New Orleans are the 
Roe of the Green Trout. These are 
exceedingly fine and delicate and arc 
prepared after the following manner: 
First wash the eggs well and cut out 
fibers; butter a nice agate dish, and 
lay the Hoe in the dish. Split them 
open, if large, and put a dot of butter 
on top of each. Sprinkle nicely with 
salt and pepper; place In the oven, 
bake a few minutes, and serve hot 
with lemon juice. 

FROGS 

Det Orenouilleg 
Following the French custom, BYog 
legs are highly prized as a delicacy 
by the Creoles. Properly cooked, they 
are much more delicate than chicken 
and a great dish at dinners. It must 
be remembered that only the hind 
legs of the frogs are used, which must 
be first skinned and then thrown into 
boiling water for five minutes. Then 
take them out and put in cold water. 
When cold, take out of the water, and 
wipe dry with a clean towel. They are 
now ready for cooking. 

Frogs 4 la Poulette 

Orenouillea d la Poulette 

6 Frog Legs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

^ Can of Mushrooms. 1 Tablespoon 

Flour. 
1 Lemon. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean and skin the Frogs' legs and 
cut them in small pieces of about an 



inch in size. Have ready a stew pot 
and put in the Frogs' legs, with salt 
and pepper to taste, and half a lemon 
cut fine. Cover well with water and 
let it cook till the meat Is tender. 
When cooked, drain and put the meat 
aside and make a sauce as follows: 
Take one tablespoonful of butter, two 
spoonfuls of flour; rub the flour 
smoothly and put in a sauce pan with 
the butter to melt. Add two cups of 
water and stir well. When it begins 
to boil well, add a half can of mush- 
rooms. Season with salt and Cayenne. 
Then add the Frogs; season again to 
taste, and let this boil ten minutes. 
Beat the yolks of two raw egers well, 
take the Frogs oft the Are and stir 
in the yolks thoroughly. Add the Juice 
of one-half lemon and serve. 



Frogs, Creole Style 

Orenouillet d la Creole. 

A Half Dozen Frogs. 

3 Eggs. A Cup of Sifted Bread Crumbs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

2 Gills of Milk or Fresh Cream. 

\^ Teaspoonful of Salt. 

% of an Onion Chopped Very Fine. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Take a half dozen Frogs, the more 
delicate the better. Cut oft the hind 
legs and skin. Scald the legs about 
four minutes in boiling w^ater, add- 
ing salt and lemon Juice to the water. 
Then take out and dry with a clean 
towel. Beat the yolks and whites of 
two or three eggs, and mix in bread 
crumbs sifted. Have ready a pot of 
heated lard. Rub the Frog legs well 
with pepper and salt, dip in eggs and 
crumbs, and put into the pot of hot 
lard. Let them fry to a nice golden 
brown. Then make a sauce as fol- 
lows: Take one tablespoonful of flour, 
one very large tablespoonful of butter, 
two grills of fresh milk or cream, and 
a half teaspoonful of salt. Put the 
butter In a saucepan over the fire. As 
soon as it melts add the flour, which 
has been rubbed smoothly. Stir in 
gradually and when blended, add by 
degrees the boiling milk, stirring con- 
stantly to prevent burning. Then take 
a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and 
a half of a chopped onion that has 
been well grated. Have ready two 
fresh eggs, beaten in a bowl. Warm 
the Frogs' legs in the sauce, and when 
it begins to simmer stir the sauce 
briskly into the eggs. Set them back 
on a low fire for a minute or two, be- 



46 



TH£ PICATOIE CREX>IiE GOOK BOOK 



ingr careful not to let the sauce boil 
after the eggs^ have been added, else 
they will curdle the sauce. Serve hot. 

Frogs Saut^ k la Creole 

OrenouiUes SautHa d la Creole 

6 Frogr IjegB. 

2 Tablespoon fuls of Butter. 

3 Large Onions. 

6 Fresh Tomatoes or a Half Can. 

1 SpriflT of Thyme. 1 Bay Lieaf. 

2 Cloves of Garlic. 

6 Green Sweet Peppers. 

Cup of Consomme or Boilins Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wash the Frogs* legs. Put two 
tablespoonfuls of butter in a sauce- 
pan and add the legs. Let this brown 
well, being careful not to burn. After 
ten minutes of very slow cooking on 
a good fire, take three large onions 
and slice them and let them brown 
with the frogs. Then add one-half 
dozen nice large fresh tomatoes, or 
a half can; cover and let these brawn. 
Cook very slowly, adding salt and pep- 
per to taste, thyme, bay leaf, two 
cloves of garlic, all chopped very fine 
indeed. Let the mixture smother 
slowly over the fire, and, if possible, 
add one-half dozen green sweet pep- 
pers sliced very fine, being careful to 
extract all the seeds. Stir well and 
let it smother twenty minutes longer, 
stirring frequently to prevent burning. 
When well smothered — that is, when 
the Frogs' legs are tender, which is 
easily ascertained by touching with a 
fork — add one cup of broth, if you 
have it, or consomm^; if not, add one 
cup of boiling water, and let it cook 
again for half an hour very slowly 
and well covered. Serve hot. 

Fried Frogs 

Orenouilles Fritet 

6 Frog Legs. 

% Cup of Lemon Juice and a Teaspoon 

of Salt. 
2 Eggs. 1 Cup of Sifted Bread Crumbs. 
Parsley, Sliced Lemon and Radishes to 

Garnish. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Scald the Frogs* legs about three 

minutes in boiling water and add a 

half cup of lemon juice and salt. 

Take out of the water and dry with 

a clean towel. Season with salt and 

pepper and dip into a batter made of 

the well-beaten yolks and whites of 

two eggs and sifted bread crumbs. 

Pat the Frogs well and drop into the 

lard, heated to a boiling point, and 

fry to a golden brown. Take them 

from the lard and drain well by plac- 



ing on soft brown paper, heated. Place 
a snow-white, folded napkin in a 
dish, and lay the frogs upon it and 
garnish -with fried parsley and sliced 
lemon, or place the Frogs in a bed 
of fried parsley laid in the dish and 
garnish with decorated radishes and 
sliced lemons. 



Broiled Frogs 

Qrenouille% QrUUcM 

6 Frog Legs. 

A Cup of Boiling Lemon Juice and Salt 

1 Tablespoonful of Olive Oil. 

1 Tablespoonful of Black Pepper. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Lettuce Leaves and Parsley, or Sliced 

Lemons and Olives to Garnish. 

Clean and skin the Frogs; scald 
well in boiling lemon juice and salt 
Dry with a clean towel. Mix thor- 
oughly a little black pepper, salt and 
olive oil, or butter melted, and rub 
the frogs thoroughly, rolling them 
over and over. Take out a^d put on 
a double wire broiler, being careful 
to turn frequently to prevent scorch- 
ing. When done, place in a platter 
of delicate lettuce leaves or parsley 
and garnish with sliced lemons and 
olives. 

Stewed Frogs 

Orenouilles en FricasMie 

1 Dozen Frog Legs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. ^ Pint of 

AVater. 

% Pint of Oyster Water. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 1 Sprig of Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of Sweet 

Marjoram. 

10 Allspice. 1 Clove. 

The Yolk of an Egg. Croutons. 

2 Dozen Oysters. 

Take the legs of one dozen Frogs 
and prepare the same as for frying. 
Take a tablespoonful of butter and 
put in a frying pan. When it begins 
to melt, add a tablespoonful of flour 
and stir constantly. When it begins 
to brown nicely, add a half pint of 
water and a pint of oyster water. 
Throw in the Frog legs as it begins to 
boil, and add salt and pepper, a lit- 
tle Cayenne, a sprig of thyme, bay 
leaf and sweet marjoram, eight or 
ten allspice, one clove. Let it simmer 
about fifteen minutes and take off the 
fire. Have ready the yolk of a beaten 
^gg, and add, blending well, and 
serve Immediately with garnishes of 
Crodtons, fried in a little butter, with 
oysters laid upon them. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



47 



CHAPTER IX 



HELL FISH 




De» CruBtac6» 



TTnder this headingr are claflsed the 
shell fish found in our Louisiana 
waters and those of the Mississippi 
Sound adjacent to New Orleans. Oys- 
ters, Shrimp, Crabs, and Crawfish, 
and the famous Green Turtle — these 
are the delightful varieties that are 
common articles of food amon^ the 
people since they are to be had for 
the fishing. 

That delicious bivalve, the Oyster, 
is perhaps the best known. Everyone 
who has visited New Orleans in win- 
ter has noted the exceptionally pala- 
table oysters that are sold in every 
restaurant and by the numerous small 
vendors on almost every other corner 
or so throughout the lower section of 
the city. In the cafes, the hotels, the 
oyster saloons, they are served in 
every conceivable style known to epi- 
cures and caterers. The oyster beds 
adjacent to New Orleans send to our 
markets the famous Bayou Cook and 
Barataria Oysters — eagerly sought 
and highly prized for exquisite flavor 
and unsurpassed In quality. The Mis- 
sissippi Sound Is well-nigh stocked 
with oysters from one end to the other 
and millions of cans are shipped year- 
ly from Blloxl and other points to ev- 
ery section of the United States. And 
so with our celebrated Lake and River 
Shrimp. No oysters are caught In the 
Mississippi Sound between May and 
September, because they are some- 
what milky and considered unfit for 
use, and so strict are the laws govern- 
ing the uses of dredge^ in the Sound 
that a watchman accompanies each 
dredge-boat to see that no attempt is 
made to use the dredge in less than 
fourteen feet of water, the idea be- 
ing that dredges shall not be used 
where the water is sufficiently shallow 
to admit of digging with tongs. 
Thus are preserved. In all their splen- 
did flavor and almost inexhaustible 
supply, our oyster beds, and while 



the yearly increase in consumption of 
this delicious bivalve has tended to 
alarm scientists and to awaken an in« 
terest in the question as to whether 
the American oyster beds may not 
some day be depleted, scientists ac- 
quainted 'With the oyster beds on our 
Gulf coast say that for domestic pur- 
poses there are sufilcient oysters to 
supply the United States. The rail- 
road facilities for handling oysters 
can hardly be improved, and fresh 
and fine and ready to be eaten, they 
arrive in our markets. The Bayou 
Cook and Barataria Oysters are with 
us all summer, and New Orleans Is 
the acknowledged commercial center 
of the oyster trade on the Gulf coast. 
New Orleans opened the eyes of 
the United States to the possibilities 
of the oyster in every variety and 
form of cooking. Her chefs evolved 
the most dainty and palatable ways 
of preparing them, and while raw 
oysters remained practically an un- 
known quantity in aristocratic centers 
in other states of the Union, the 
Creoles, quick to discover and a]>ply, 
placed the raw oyster on their table 
as one of the greatest delicacies that 
could be offered the most fastidious 
appetite. In the following recipes 
are given the most delightful manner 
of serving the bivalves: 

OYSTERS 

Huitrea d la Oriole 

There has already been given, in the 
chapter devoted to soups, the several 
ways that the Creoles have of prepar- 
ing oysters In this style. (See Oyster 
Soups.) In a general treatment of 
oysters, It presents, first, that famous 
but exceptionally palatable manner In 
which oysters can be eaten at all 
hours, day or night, without overload- 
ing the stomach or causing the least 
symptom of indigestion, viz.: 



48 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



Raw Oysters on Half Shell 

Huitrca en CoquiUes 

6 Oysters to Each Plate. Cracked Ice. 
Kaunsell White or Black Pepper. Cay- 
enne and Vinegrar. 
Lemon, Sliced or Cut in Quarters. 

Allow six oysters to each person 
where the bivalve is used to beg:in 
the dinner or breakfast. Have the oys- 
ters opened in their shell and remove 
one-half of the shell. Drain the water 
from the oyster shell, without dis- 
turbinsT the oyster, place in plates with 
cracked ice, and garnish with a quar- 
ter of sliced lemon in the center of 
each plate. Serve with black pepper 
and Cayenne, if desired, or the famous 
Maunsell White, sold in all New Or- 
leans oyster saloons. A half cup is 
griven as "lagniappe" by the dealers 
to their customers. 

Dainty rolls of fresh butter and oys- 
ter crackers are served with raw oys- 
ters. 



Oysters Served in a Block of Ice 

Huttres tur la Olace 

6 Oysters to Each Person. A Square 

Block of Ice. 

Black Pepper and Cayenne. 

Sprigs of Parsley and Radishes to 

Garnish. 

Lemon Cut in Quarters. 

Have your dealer send a square 
block o.f ice of the size desired and 
make a hollow in the center of the 
block by placing a flat-iron on the 
top, scooping out with the iron the 
shape desired. Then place a folded 
napkin on a platter and stand the 
block of ice upon it. Pepper the oys- 
ters nicely with Cayenne and black 
pepper, and place In the ice. Then 
take sprigs of parsley and decorate 
the platter, placing between decorated 
radishes, and alternate slices of lemon 
and serve the oysters with lemon cut 
in quarters. Smllax may be substi- 
tuted for the parsley or mixed with 
it. The cavity should be square and 
deep, leaving walls of ice about two 
inches in thickness. 



Broiled Oysters 

Huitres sur le OHl 

6 or 8 Oysters to Each Person. Salt 

and Cayenne to Taste. 

Melted Butter and Chopped Parsley. 

Sliced Lemon and Sprigs of Parsley to 

Garnish. 

Allow six or eight oysters to each 
person. The oysters must be large 
and fat, else they will shrivel to noth- 



ing in cooking. Drain the oysters; 
through a colander, lay them on a 
dish and wipe with a dry, clean towel. 
Melt butter and dip in the oysters, 
seasoned well with salt and Cayenne 
on both sides. Have ready the grid- 
iron (use always the double wire 
broiler) and test the heat by dropping 
a little water on it. If the water 
hisses, the broiler is quite ready. 
Place the broiler in a warm piaee-^ 
just over the oven will do. Butter and 
place the oysters on it. Return to 
a moderate fire. As soon as the oys- 
ters are browned on one side, turn 
on the other and brown. Have ready 
a heated dish and serve the oysters, 
pouring on them melted butter and 
chopped parsley (chopped very ftne). 
Garnish with sprigs of parsley and 
sliced lemon and serve immediately. 

Broiled Oysters on Toast 

Hultres sur Canapes 

6 or 8 Oysters to Each Person. Salt 

and Pepper to Ta^te. 

6 or 8 Pieces of Buttered Toast or 

Milk Toast. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Melted Butter 

Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 

Broil the oysters according to the 
recipe given above. Have ready a 
heated dish; sprinkle the oysters with 
salt and pepper and pour over melted 
butter. Serve on small pieces of but- 
tered toast, or milk toast. Sprinkle 
with finely-chopped parsley. 

Broiled Oysters With Sauce 

Nuttrea QrilUea d la Sauce Espagnole 
1 Pint of Oyster Liquor to Every 2 

Dozen Oysters. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 2 Table- 
spoonfuls of Sifted Flour. 
Salt and Cayenne to Taste. Chopped 

Parsley. 
6 or 8 Squares of Buttered Toast. 

Drain the oysters and allow about 
one pint of the oyster liquor to each 
two dozen oysters. Have ready a 
porcelaih-lined saucepan and put the 
liquor on to boil. As the scum rises 
skim it carefully. Put one tablespoon- 
ful of butter into a frying pan, and 
when it begins to heat, add gradually 
two tablespoonfuls of sifted flour. Mix 
well and brown. Pour over this the 
oyster liquor and stir constantly till 
It begins to boil, seasoning with salt 
and pepper (Cayenne) and parsley 
chopped very fine. Stand the sauce 
In a vessel In hot water (bain-marie) 
until wanted, and proceed to broil the 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



49 



oysters in the same manner as in the 
recipe first given. Place squares of 
buttered toast in a dish. lay the oys- 
ters on top, pour over the sauce, and 
serve immediately. 

Oysters en Brochettes 

Huttres en Brochettes 

8 Dozen Lar^e, Flat Oysters. Thin Slits 

of Bacon. 

A Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Minced Parsley. 

Sliced Lemon and Olives to Garnish. 

Have, ready a furnace with redhot 
coals; take fine sliced breakfast bacon 
and cut into thin slits about the size 
of the oyster. Drain three dozen large 
fat oysters; take a long skewer of sil- 
ver or metal that is not dangerous, 
and string it first with a slit of bacon 
and then an oyster, alternating this 
until it is filled, the extreme ends ter- 
minating with the bacon. Then hold 
the oysters over the clear fire and 
broil until the edges begin to ruffle, 
when they are done. In the mean- 
time prepare some drawn butter by 
placing about a tablespoonful in a 
cup before the fire to melt; place the 
oysters in a hot dish, alternating with 
slices of bacon, sprinkle with pepper 
and salt, and pour over the drawn 
butter mixed with about one table- 
spoonful of parsley, chopped fine; gar- 
nish with slices of lemons and whole 
olives, and serve. The oysters and 
bacon may be served on the skewers, 
if they are not charred or blackened; 
but the other is the far daintier 
method. 

Oysters Broiled in Shells 

Huitret en CoquUles 9ur le Oril 

3 Dozen Fine, Fat Oysters. 
1 Tablespoonful of Finely Chopped 

Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. Sprigs of Thyme. 

1 Sprig of Sweet Basil. 2 Shallots. • 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter, Grated 

Bread Crumbs. 

Asparagus Tips and Sliped Lemon to 

Garnish. 
Dozen Well Washed Oyster Shells. 

Take three dozen fine oysters; 
blanch in their own water and drain. 
Chop a tablespoonful of fine parsley, 
bay leaf and thyme, using a sprig 
each of the latter and a sprig of sweet 
basil. Cut up two shallots very fine 
and add. Place a tablespoonful of 
butter in a saucepan; add a little oys- 
ter juice saut6, or shake the oysters 
without making a bouillon. When 
two minutes have passed, take off the 



stove, place the oysters in the well 
washed shells, sprinkle over a little 
bread crumbs, and put on top of each 
a pinch of butter. Have ready the 
gridiron or broiler very hot; place 
the shells between the double broiler, 
set over the fire to broil for about 
four or five minutes, and serve with 
delicate garnishes of asparagus tips 
and sliced lemon. 



Oysters and Bacon 

Euttrea BordSea 

3 Dozen Oysters. Thin Slices of Break- 
fast Bacon. 
MiQoed Parsley. Sauce Piquante. 

Wrap each oyster in a very thin 
slice of breakfast bacon. Lay on a 
broiler over a baking pan in a hot 
oven. Remove when the bacon is 
brown. Each must be fastened with 
a wooden toothpick. Serve with 
minced parsley and pepper sauce, or 
^ Sauce Piquante. (See recipe.) 

Fried Oysters 

Huttres Baut^ea 

6 or 8 Oysters to Each Person. 

Salt and Pepper. 

Finely Grated Bread Crumbs. Parsley 

to Garnish. 
Boiling Lard. 

Drain the oysters, allowing about 
six or eight to each person to be 
served. Salt and pepper and then roll 
oysters in bread crumbs, grated very 
fine. Drop in the frying pan of boil- 
ing lard, having sufficient lard to al- 
low the oysters to swim in the grease. 
Remove when a golden brown and 
place on brown paper and drain. 
Serve on a platter garnished with 
parsley or on a bed of fried parsley. 
(See recipe for Fried Parsley.) 

Pried Oysters k la Creole 

HuUrea Fritea d la Creole 

6 or 8 Oysters to Each Person. 

1 Egg. 1 Glass of Milk. 

^ Teaspoon of Salt. % Teaspoonful 

of Black Pepper. 

Grated Cracker or Bread Crumbs. 

Butter Oil. 

Parsley. 

Sliced Lemon and Pickle to Garnish. 

Select the firmest and largest oys- 
ters allowing six or eight to each 
person. Drain in a colander and dry 
with a soft linen towel. Beat an 
egg thoroughly and mix with a glass 
of milk and a half teaspoonful of salt 
and pepper. Majsh bread crumbs or 
crackers in another dish. Dip the 



60 



THE PICAYUNE CREX)IiE CXX>K BOOK 



oysters one by one In the milk and 
roll gently in the bread crumbs, pat- 
ting softly -with the hands, and drop 
into a deep frying pan, with sufHcient 
lard or butter oil for the oyster to 
swim in It. In from three to five 
minutes the oysters will be done. The 
time given will allow them to fry to 
a nice golden brown, and it will not 
be necessary to turn them if the oil 
in the pan is deep enough. Take them 
out with a skimmer, being careful not 
to break, and drain on a piece of soft 
brown paper. Serve on a bed of fried 
parsley, with garnishes of sliced 
lemon and pickle. Bread crumbs are 
far preferable to crackers. Butter is 
often used in frying oysters, but the 
butter oil is found by experience to 
be better than either lard or butter. 
Some also use cornmeal instead of 
the bread crumbs, but there is no 
comparison as to results. 

Stewed Oysters 

ituttrcB en Frica^ic 

4 Dozen Large Oysters. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 1 Table- 
spoonful of Butter. 
1 Pint of Oyster Liquor. 
1 Pint of Rich Cream or Milk. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Take about four dozen large oys- 
ters, drain in a colander. Mix one 
tablespoonful of flour and one of but- 
ter together. Put one pint of oyster 
liquor on the Are and add the flour 
and butter blended. Have ready in 
another saucepan a pint of rich, hot 
cream. After five minutes, add thia 
to the oyster liquor, always using a 
double-boiler, stirring constantly to 
prevent burning. Salt and pepper to 
taste. Let it boil up once and then 
add the oysters. After three minutes 
serve. This is a very delicate dish. 

Oyster Saut^es 

Huttreg BauUes 

6 or 8 Oysters to Each Person. 

3 Slices of Fat Bacon. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. Salt and 

Pepper to Taste. 

6 or 8 Squares of Buttered Toast. 

Olives, Pickles and Sliced Lemon to 

Garnish. 

Drain the oysters well and dry with 
a towel. Sprinkle them with pepper 
and salt, and roll in a little flour. 
Place the bacon, cut into thin slices, 
in a frying pan, and let all the fat fry 
out. Remove the bacon from the pan 
and place in the oysters, covering 
the bottom. As they turn a golden 



brown on one side, turn over on the 
other. Serve on squares of buttered 
toast, with garnishes of olives, pickles 
and sliced lemon. 

Coddled Oysters 

Huttre* Rdties »ur Canapis 

6 or 8 Oysters to Each Person. 

6 Slices of Bread. 

1 Large Tablespoonful of Butter. 

H Teaspoonful of Salt. 

% Teaspoonful of Black Pepper. A 

Dash of Cayenne. 

2 Sprigs of Parsley Chopped Very Pine. 

1 Bay Leaf Minced Fine. 

3 Cloves. 1 Blade of Mace. 1 Pint of 

Oyster Liquor. 

Toast five or six slices of bread to 
a nice brown and butter them on both 
sides. Drain the liquor from the oys- 
ters and put it in a saucepan. When 
hot, add a large lump of butter. Have 
ready a baking dish and place the 
toast within; lay the oysters on the 
toast, having seasoned well with salt. 
Cayenne pepper, chopped parsley, bay 
leaf, mace and cloves. Put the liquor 
of the oysters over the toast until it 
is well absorbed. Set it In an oven 
and bake for five or six minutes with 
a quick fire. 

Deviled Oysters 

HuUrea d la Diahle 

3 Dozen Oysters. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 

2 Tablespoon fuls of Flour. 

Vi Pint of Cream. The Yokes of 2 

Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Blade of Mace. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. Salt and Cayenne 

to Taste. 

Sprigs of Parsley or Asparagus Tips 

and Sliced Lemon and Olives to 

Garnish. 

Take three dozen fine, largre oysters, 
drain and chop them into middling 
fine pieces. Rub together one table- 
spoonful of butter and two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, very smoothly. 
Place in a double-boiler a half pint of 
cream, and, when it is coming to a 
boll, stir In the flour and butter. Have 
ready the yolks of two eggs well 
beaten, and, as soon as the milk boils, 
take from the fire and add the eggs, 
one tablespoonful of parsley chopped 
fine, one bay leaf chopped fine, mace, 
and a sprig of finely-chopped thyme. 
Add salt and Cayenne to taste, and 
add the oysters. Take the deep shells 
of the oysters, which have been 
washed perfectly clean, and fill with 
this mixture; sprinkle lightly with 
bread crumbs; put a pinch of butter 



THE PICAYUNE CREOUS COOK BOOK 



51 



on top, and set In the baking pan and 
brown. The oven should be very 
quick, and only five minutes are 
needed for the browning. Serve the 
oysters thus baked in their shells, 
and garnish the dish with sprigs of 
parsley or asparagus tips, olives and 
sliced lemon. 

Curried Oysters 

Iluitrcs au Kari 
4 Dozen Oysters. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 2 Table- 
spoonfuls of Flour. 
1 Gill Oi Rich Cream or 2 Gills of Good 

Milk. 

% Teaspoon ful of Curry Powder. 

A Pinch of Corn Starch. 

2 Sprigs of Thyme. 1 Bay Leaf. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. The Oyster 

Water. 

1 Cup of Louisiana Pice Boiled & la 

Creole, for Border. 

Take four dozen fine, large oysters 
and drain the oyster liquor into a 
saucepan, being careful to extract all 
pieces of shell, and set it to boil. Wipe 
the oysters dry with a clean towel. 
Put in another saucepan one table- 
spoonful of butter and let it melt; 
then add two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
stirring constantly and rubbing 
smoothly; do not let It brown. Add 
about one gill of rich cream, or two 
gills of good milk, to the boiling oys- 
ter juice, And stir all this into the 
flour slowly, avoiding the formation 
of any lumps, and stirring constantly. 
Let this boil about two minutes. Take 
one-half teaspoonful of curry powder 
and a pinch of cornstarch or flour and 
rub smoothly with a few drops of 
cold milk. Stir this into the oyster 
juice; season k la Creole with Cayenne, 
salt, chopped thyme, etc., and, as it 
boils up, drop in the oysters; let them 
cook about three minutes and serve 
on a dish with a border of Louisiana 
rice, boiled so as to appear like snow- 
flakes, the grains standing apart. 
Sprinkle chopped parsley over the oys- 
ters to form a garnish. 

Oysters k la Poulette 

HuUrea d la Poulette 
4 Dozen Oysters. 
I Gill of Rich Cream or 2 Gills of 
Good Milk. 
The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 2 Tablespoon- 
fuls of Rich Cream. 
Toasted and Buttered CroQtons. 
Sliced Lemon and Parsley Sprigs to 

Garnish. 

Prepare as in the above recipe for 
Curried Oysters, omitting the curry 



powder. Having dropped the oysters 
into the boiling oyster Juice, remove 
from the flre after cooking three min- 
utes. Beat well the yolks of two eggs 
with two tablespoonfuls of rich cream, 
add to the oysters, and serve with 
toasted and buttered Crodtons, gar- 
nish with sliced lemons and sprigs of 
parsley. 

MlnctMl Oysters 

Huttrea en Hachie , 

4 Dozen Oysters. 2 GUIs of Oyster 

Juice. 
A Half Can of Mushrooms. 

3 Yolks of Bgs. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
2 Gills of Rich Cream. 1 Tablespoon- 
ful of Flour. 
Parsley and Chives and Thyme, chopped 

fine. 

Scald the oysters in their own 
water. Drain and mince, but not too 
flne. . Put into the saucepan a table- 
spoonful of butter, and, when melted, 
add the parsley (chopped flne), the 
herbs and the mushrooms. Then add 
the flour, which has been rubbed 
smoothly in a gill of oyster Juice. 
Mix thoroughly, and then add the 
minced oysters, and stew gently un- 
til the sauce is absorbed and the 
mince forms a thick batter. Be very 
careful not to scorch. Remove from 
the fire and put in the yolks of the 
eggs, which have been beaten smooth- 
ly in the cream. Set it back on the 
fire and let it remain about one min- 
ute, and serve on large toasted and 
buttered Crofltons, with garnish of 
lemon and parsley and olives. 



Baked Oysters 

Huttrea au Oratin 

3 Dozen Fine, Large Oysters. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Sauce Plquante. 3 Shallots. 

V^ Can of Minced Mushrooms. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Oyster Juice. 

Parsley, Thyme and Bay Leaf, 

Chopped Fine. 

Boil the ^oysters about two minutes 
in their own liquor, dropping them in 
the liquor as it comes to the boiling 
point. Pass them through a **Sauce 
Plquante," rolling nicely. Mix the 
melted butter and the chopped pars- 
ley, thyme, etc., the shallots chopped 
very flne, and moisten well with a 
little oyster Juice; chop the mush- 
rooms flne and add. After it is re- 
duced, having been stirred constantly, 
select the flnest and largest shells of 
the oysters, which have been cleaned 



52 



THE PICAYUNE CREOISE COOK BOOK 



well, and place In each four or six 
oysters, pouring the sauce over each, 
filling nicely, in pyramidal shape; 
place on each a bit of butter, and 
set in the stove for about five min- 
utes, or over a gridiron on a slow 
fire for about ten minutes. Serve in 
the shells, with garnish of parsley and 
lemons, sliced. 

Scallopcd Oysters 

Coquillca d'HultrcB 

4 Dozen Fine Oysters. 3 Tablespoonfuls 

of Butter. 
1 Blade of Mace. 4 Cloves. 1 Sprig of 

Thyme. 

1 Bay Leaf. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

% Cup of Rich Milk or Cream. 

»/4 Cup of Oyster Liquor. Grated Bread 

Crumbs. 

Select about four dozen fine oysters. 
Have ready a porcelain-lined baking 
dish, or any good dish that will not 
darken the oysters. Drain the oysters 
in a colander, strain the liquor to' 
remove all pieces of shell and save it. 
Butter the baking dish and put in it 
a layer of oysters, well seasoned, d. la 
Creole, with Cayenne, salt, chopped 
mace, cloves, thyme, parsley and bay 
leaf chopped very fine. Put on it a 
layer of bread crumbs, about a half- 
inch in thickness. Place here and 
there little dots of butter and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Add another 
layer of seasoned oysters, and then 
another layer of bread crumbs, until 
the dish is full. Then mix a half cup 
of rich cream and milk and a half 
cup of the oyster liquor, and pour 
over the dish. Sprinkle the last layer 
with bread crumbs and dot gently 
with bits of butter. Place in a quick 
oven and bake about fifteen or twenty 
minutes, or until a nice brown. 

Oysters an Pamiesan 

Uuitres au Parmesan 

3 Dozen Oysters. 

Grated Parmesan Cheese. 

1 Cup of Grated Bread Crumbs. 

1 Gill of Cream. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt, Cayenne, 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 

Brown the bread crumbs In a little 
butter, butter a shallow dish and 
strew it with bread crumbs. Drain the 
oysters and dry with a towel; season 
highly k la Creole; place them, one 
by one, on the bread crumbs; strew 
chopped parsley over them, and the 
grated cheese, using good judgment 



as to quantity. Sprinkle lightly with 
bread crumbs again, and pour over 
all a gill of cream. Place in the 
•oven, which should be very quick; 
let them remain about fifteen minutes 
till quite brown. Take out, pour on 
them some drawn butter, and serve 
with lemon garnish. 

Roasted Oysters 

Huttrea RotU 

3 Dozen Fine, Large, Fat Oysters. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Buttered Toast 

Clean the oyster shells thoroughly, 
set them on the top of the stove or 
place in a baking pan until the shell 
is easily removed. Remove the flat 
outer shell. Butter the oyster in the 
deep shell and serve very hot with 
salt and pepper. In old Creole fami- 
lies roasting parties were often given 
and there was always a frolic in the 
kitchen, the belles and beaux vying 
with one another in roasting the deli- 
cious bivalve. As the shells open put 
in a little butter. The oysters were 
sent 'to the table in their shells; by 
a quick movement the outer shell was 
removed, and they were eaten with 
pepper sauce or pepper, salt and vine- 
gar. 

Oyster Pan Roast 

Huitrea d la Po^le 

A Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Sliced Lemon and Parsley to Garnish. 

The largest and finest oysters are 
used for this purpose. Drain the oys- 
ters, heat a deep frying pan, drop in 
a generous lump of butter. When it 
melts, add the oysters, covering and 
shaking the pan constantly over a hot ' 
fire. Have ready a dish well buttered 
and nicely garnished with parsley and 
lemon slices. When the oysters are 
brown, turn quickly into the dish and 
add salt and pepper and melted but- 
ter, into which you have dropped 
finely-chopped parsley, and serve hot. 

Steamed Oysters 

Huttrea d la Vapcur 

4 Dozen Oysters. 

A Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A Dash of Cayenne. 

This is a favorite way of eating 
oysters in New Orleans. Have ready 
a pot of boiling water. Drain the 
oysters in their shells and put them in 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



53 



a shallow tin pan, with a perforated 
bottom. Cover and put them over 
the steamer, let stand about ten 
minutes; put them into a hot dish, 
season with pepper and Cayenne and 
serve with drawn butter sauce. If 
you have no perforated tin, steam the 
oysters in their shells. Wash the 
shells thoroughly on the outside, place 
the oysters in the steamer and cover, 
letting them remain about fifteen min- 
utes over the boiling water, or until 
the shells open easily, then serve. A 
steamer may be improvised by using 
a colander and a closely fitting pot lid. 
The steamed oyster must be eaten 
when very hot to be appreciated in all 
its flavor. 

Oyster Fritters 

Bcigtwia d'liuttrct 

3 Dozen Oysters. 

2 Bgsrs. 1 Cup of Milk. 

2 Cups of Flour. 1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

^ Teaspoonful of Good Baking Powder. 

Parsley or Asparagus Tips to 

Garnish. 

Take two dozen large oysters, drain 
in a colander and remove any pieces 
of shell or grit that may adhere. Chop 
the oysters fine. Break two eggs and 
beat until very light. Then add a 
cup of milk and rub in smoothly two 
cupfuls of flour and one teaspoonful 
of salt. Beat until perfectly smooth. 
Add one-half teaspoonful of good bak- 
ing powder. Mix well and then drop 
in the oysters, which must be dry. 
Next drop into boiling lard or oil. 
When browned on one side turn on 
the other, being careful not to use a 
fork or to pierce them, as that would 
render the oysters and fritters heavy. 
Use a skimmer In removing from the 
pot, and drain on brown paper. Serve 
on a dish In which you have placed 
a folded napkin and garnish with 
sprigs of parsley and asparagus tips. 

Oyster Croquettes 

Croquettes d*Hu\tres 

2 Dozen Oysters. 1 Gill of Rich Cream. 

1 Gill of Oyster Liquor. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

The Yolks of Two Eggs. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A Dash of Cayenne. A Well-Beaten 

Egg. 
Grated Bread Crumbs. Boiling Lard. 

Cook two dozen large oysters in 
all their own liquor. Stir constant- 
ly and boil for about five min- 
utes. Remove from the fire*. Take 



out the oysters and chop very fine. 
Put them into a saucepan with about 
one gill each of rich cream and oyster 
liquor. Rub together two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour and one o( butter. Add 
this and the oysters to the boiling 
milk and cream. Stir until it thick- 
ens and boils. Then add the yolks 
of two eggs. Stir this over the fire 
for about one minute, and then take 
"off and add parsley, chopped fine, 
salt and Cayenne. Mix well and place 
in a dish to cool. Then roll in a ^ 
beaten egg to bind it and form in cyl- 
inders of about a finger in length. 
Roll in bread crumbs mashed fine, 
and fry in boiling lard or oil. 

Oyster Croquettes A la Creole 

Croquettes d'Huitres A la Crdole 

3 Dozen Fine Oysters. 
1 Cup of the White Meat of a Chicken 

Minced. 

6 Finely Chopped Mushrooms. 

1 Teaspoonful of Onion Juice. 

% Cup of Cream. 

The Tolks of 2 Eggs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Tablespoonful of Parsley. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 

Salt and -Cayenne Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the oysters about three minutes 
In their own liquor. Drain* and chop 
the oysters fine. Take a half <fup of 
the liquor in which the oysters have 
been boiled, set It on the fire and add 
the chopped oysters. Then add the 
half cup of cream, the chopped mush- 
rooms, and the minced chicken. Stir 
thoroughly into this boiling mixture 
the butter and fiour which have been 
rubbed smoothly. Add the chopped 
parsley, onion juice, salt and Cayenne 
and mix well. Then add the yolks 
of the eggs, well beaten. Let it cook 
about two minutes and turn It out 
Into a dish to cool. When cold, roll 
into cylinders about two Inches In 
length and one Inch In diameter. Pass 
through bread crumbs and fry In boil- 
ing lard. Serve immediately on a bed 
of fried parsley. 

Oyster Balls 

Boulettes d'lluitrea 

2 Pints of Chopped Oysters. 

2 Pints Chopped Sausage Meat. 

1 Egg. Grated Bread Crumbs. 

To every pint of chopped oysters 
add one pint of chopped sausage meat. 
Roll In bread crumbs; season highly. 
Add one egg and roll In bread crumbs. 
Make Into small cakes and fry In bell- 
ing lard. Serve hot. 



54 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



Oyster Patties 

Petitea Bouchies d'Huttres 

4 Dozen Oysters. % Can of Mushrooma 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Small Onion, Grated. 

Pepper, Salt, Chopped Parsley 

and Lemon Juice. 

Prepare a puff paste (see recipe) 
and lay on the ice to cool. Boil the 
oysters in their own liquor. Drain, 
put the butter in the saucepan, and 
when it Is heated, add the grated 
onion and rub in the flour until 
smooth. Add a grill of mushroom Juice 
and pepper, salt and Cayenne to taste 
and the mushrooms chopped In quar- 
ters. Then add the oysters and let 
all stew about five minutes, addinsr 
the lemon Juice. A tablespoonful of 
cream will Improve the oysters. If 
this is used, omit the lemon Juice. 
Line the small tins "with the puff 
paste and put in each three or four 
oysters according to the size of the 
paste. Cover with the paste and bake 
in a quick oven about fifteen minutes. 

To make the open pftt^s so much 
used at luncheon and entertainments 
in New Orleans, cut the puff paste 
into round cakes. Those intended for 
the bottom crust should be about a 
little less than an eighth of an inch 
thick.* Those Intended for the upper 
layers should be a little thicker. Take 
a small biscuit cutter and remove a 
round paste from the center of these 
latter. This will leave a nice ring. 
Carefully place this upon the bottom 
crust, and then a second ring, ^ until 
the cavity is deep enough to hold sev- 
eral oysters. Lay the pieces that 
have been extracted into a pan with 
these and bake to a fine brown in a 
quick oven. Then take out and fill 
the cavities with the oysters prepared 
as above, fit on the tops very lightly, 
set in the oven a second or two and 
serve. 

Oyster Pie 

Vol-au-Vcnt d'HuHrea 

8 Dozen Large, Fine Oysters. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

6 Yolks of Eggs. 

Spices, Thyme, Bay Leaf, Parsley. 

1 Slice of Grated Bread. 

Take an earthen dish which will 
hold about three and a half pints and 
line the sides with rich pie crust. (See 
recipe for Pie Cru9t.) Set in the stove 
and let it bake a few minutes. In 
the meantime take about one pint and 
a half of the oyster liquor and put 
on the Are, after having drained well. 



Add the seasonings of chopped herbs 
and Cayenne. Rub a tablespoonful 
of flour Into the butter «ind add to 
the liquor, stirring constantly. Mash 
the grated crumbs; add to this, and 
mix well. Chop the hard-boiled e^g^ 
fine. Then pour the oysters Into the 
pan of pie crust, sprinkle some of the 
chopped eggs and grated bread 
crumbs over, and put a teaspoonful 
of butter In small bits here and there 
over all. Then roll out very fine and 
thin a layer of the pie crust Place 
this over the preparation and orna- 
ment here and there, all around, with 
neat notches or designs, which can be 
easily formed with the end of a spoon 
or the prongs of a folk. Cut a hole 
in the center In the shape of the let- 
ter X. Set in a moderately quick 
oven and bake till brown. In the 
meantime, melt one tablespoonful of 
butter, add the remaining oyster 
liquor and season with pepper and 
salt. When it is about to come to a 
boil, add one-half cup of rich, hot 
cream or boiled milk and when the 
pie is nearly brown, put a funnel into 
the opening in the center and pour 
in as much of the liquor as the pie 
will hold. Place a delicate garnish 
of pastry leaves over the whole and 
bake a minute or so longer. If there 
is any sauce left over, serve it with 
the pie. 

Great care jnust be taken not to 
have the oysters over done. For this 
reason the upper crust is often baked 
separately, as the bottom of the pie 
may be filled with the ingredients and 
the upper crust placed on later. Else 
the raw oysters are placed in layers in 
between the crusts. But they are 
liable to become too dry when used in 
this way. 

Oyster Salad 

Buitrea en Salade 

4 Dozen Large Oysters. 2 Crisp 
Heads of Lettuce. 
The Yolks of Three Eggs. ^ Teaspoon- 
ful of Mustard. 
i/i Teaspoonful of Salt. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Olive Oil. 
1 Tablespoonful of Vinegar. 
Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Oyster Salad is a favorite lunch 
dish. Boil about four dozen large 
oysters in their own liquor, season 
with salt and pepper. Drain and set 
aside to cool. Take two crisp heads 
of lettuce leaves and arrange nicely 
in the salad bowl. Turn the oysters 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



55 



into the center of the leaves and pour 
over them the following dressing: 
Take the yolks of three raw eggs* half 
a teaspoonful of mustard, and a little 
salt; beat these together until they 
begin to thicken, and add gradually 
olive oil, as in making Mayonnaise, 
until it begins to thicken. Add a lit- 
tle vinegar to thin and serve with the 
oysters. 

Pickled Oysters 

BuUret en Marinade 

50 or 100 Large, Fine Oysters. 

12 Blades of Mace. 

1 Large Tablespoonful of Allspice. 

1 Level Tablespoonful of Cloves. 

1 Pepper. 2 Sliced Lemons. 

% Pint of White Vinegar. 

Salt to Taste. 

^ Dozen Pepper Corns. 

Boll the oysters in their own liquor 
until the edges begin to ruffle. Then 
take a half pint of white wine vinegar 
and a half pint of the oyster water 
and set to boil, adding the blades of 
mace, cloves, allspice, pepper corns 



and a dash of Cayenne. Salt to taste. 
As soon as they come to a good boll, 
pour in the oysters. Care must be 
taken to have the oysters very cold, 
as they will make the pickles slimy 
otherwise. After adding the oysters to 
the boiling liquid, set it aside to cool 
and serve very cold. This is a deli- 
cious Creole luncheon dish. 

Oyster Loaf 

La M6diatrice 

Delicate French Loaves of Bread. 
. 2 Dozen Oysters to a Loaf. 
1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 

Take delicate French loaves of 
bread and cut off, lengthwise, the up- 
per portion. Dig the crumbs out of 
the center of each piece, leaving the 
sides and bottom like a square box. 
Brush each corner of the box and 
the bottom with melted butter, and 
place in a quick oven to brown. Fill 
with broiled or creamed oysters. Cover 
with the bread lid and serve. 



CHAPTER X 



* SHELL FISH ^^i^sa^ 



Des CruBiacSa 



. This chapter embraces methods of 
cooking Shrimp, Crab, Crawfish and 
Turtle, according to the most ap- 
proved rules of the Creole Cuisine. 



SHREVfP 

Dea Chevrettea 
New Orleans is famous for the 
flavor of- the River and Lake Shrimp 
which abound in its markets. The 
River Shrimp is the more delicate 
of the two and is always eaten boiled 
as a preliminary to dinner or break- 
fast or luncheon. The Lake Shrimp, 
of larger size and firmer qualities, is 
used for cooking purposes, and is 
served in various ways. From the 
Mississippi Sound and the Ne^ Or- 
leans shore Shrimp are sent canned 
to every part of the United States. In 
our markets they are sold fresh from 
the waters. 



Boiled Shrimp 

Chevrettea BouUiea 

100 Fine River Shrimp. 

A Large Bunch of Celery and Celery 

Tops. 
2 Dozen Allspice. 2 Blades of Mace. 

1 Dozen Cloves. 
4 Sprigs Each of Thyme, Parsley and 

Bay Leaf. 

1 Red Pepper Pod. 

Cayenne, Black Pepper, Salt, Parsley. 

Sprigs to Garnish. 

Select fine, large River Shrimp for 
this purpose. Into a pot of water put 
a great quantity of salt, almost enough 
to make a brine. "Pepper" a great 
buncli of celery and celery tops, 
chopped fine: two dozen allspice, two 
blades of mace, one dozen cloves, 
mashed fine; thyme, parsley, bay leaf, 
chopped fine; Cayenne and a red pep- 
per pod. When this has boiled so 
that all the flavor of the herbs have 
been thoroughly extracted, throw in 
the Shrimp. Let them boil twenty 



56 



THE PIGATUNE GREOLiE CX>OK BCM3K 



minutes, then set the pot aside and 
let the Shrimp cool in their own 
water. Serve in a platter on a bed of 
cracked ice, and garnish with parsley 
sprigs. This dish is always served as 
a preliminary to a meal. A great deal 
of salt is required in boiling, as the 
Shrimp absorb but little, and no after 
addition can quite give them the same 
taste as when boiled in the briny 
water. 

Stewed Shrimp. 

Chevretea d la Criole 
100 Fine Lake Sbrimp. 1 Large Oniop. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Can of 

Tomatoes or 12 Fresh Ones. 

4 Celery Stalks, 1 Clove of Garlic, 1 

Sprig of Thyme. 

2 Bay Leaves. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A Dash of Cayenne. 

Get about 100 large Lake Shrimp 
for this recipe. Boil the Shrimp first 
according to the recipe given above, 
and then pick off the shells, leaving 
the Shrimp whole. Chop fine one 
large onion and brown it with a table- 
spoonful of butter. Add a can of to- 
matoes or twelve large, ripe tomatoes, 
chopped fine, in their own liquor. Stir 
well and brown lightly. Then add 
three or four stalks of celery, a clove 
of garlic, a dash of Cayenne, a sprig 
of thyme, two bay leaves, all chopped 
finely and seasoned with salt to taste. 
After this has cooked ten minutes add 
the Shrimp. Let them cook ten min- 
utes longer and serve. Never pour 
water into stewed Shrimp, as the to- 
mato juice makes gravy enough. 

Fried Shrimp. 

Ohevrettea Fritca 

100 Fine Lake Shrimp. 

1 Cup of Milk. Grated Bread Crumbs. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. A Dash of 

Cayenne. 
Fried Parsley and Parsley Tips and 
Olives to Garnish. 

Use Fine Lake Shrimp for this 
recipe. Boil first according to the 
recipe given for Boiled Shrimp. Then 
take off the fire, pick off shells and 
season well. Take a pan of milk, sea- 
son well with salt and pepper. After 
dipping the Shrimp well in this, roll 
them in grated bread crumbs or yel- 
low cornmeal (the latter being pref- 
erable) and fry in boiling lard. The 
Shrimp must swim in the lard. When 
they are a nice golden brown take 
out with a skimmer and drain on 
heated brown paper. Serve on a hot 
dish on a bed of fried parsley and gar- 
nish with parsley tips and olives. 



Baked Shrimp. 

Chevrettes au Oratin 

100 Lake Shrimp. 1 Dozen Tomatoes. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Cup of 
Grated Bread Crumbs or Crackers. 

Boil the Shrimp according to recipe. 
Butter a deep dish well and place 
in it a layer of graled bread crumbs 
or powdered crackers. Pick and clean 
the Shrimp and season well. Stew 
about a dozen tomatoes in a little but- 
ter and season with pepper and salt- 
Place a layer of the tomatoes in the 
dish and then a thin layer of crackers 
or grated bread and over this a layer 
of Shrimp. Continue till you have 
four or five layers, the last being of 
the grated bread crumbs. Put little 
dots of butter here and there; place 
in the oven and bake till quite brown. 

Shrimp Pie. 

■ Vol-au-Vent dc Chevrettes 

100 Lake Shrimp. 

2 Slices of Stale Bread. 2 Glasses of 

Milk. 

1 Blade of Mace. 3 Sprigs of Thyme. 

% of a Ground Nutmeg. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 1 Tablespoonful 

of Butter. 
5 Tomatoes. % of a Celery Stalk. 

4 Bay Leaf. % Pint of Oyster Liquor. 

Boil and pick about 100 Shrimp. 
Take two large slices of stale bread 
and break off the crusts, grating this 
fine. Moisten the bread with two 
glasses of milk, and season highly 
with salt, pepper, a dash of C^^yenne. 
ground nutmeg, chopped mace, thyme 
and parsley. Mix the Shrimp with the 
bread and bake in a dish. Sprinkle 
it with the grated crusts and dot 
with butter. Serve this pie with a 
sauce of dressed Shrimp. To make 
this take a pint of Shrimp, boiled and 
picked; put a tablespoonful of butter 
into a saucepan. Add the shrimp and 
four or five tomatoes, chopped fine; a 
little celery, thyme, one bay leaf, 
chopped fine, parsley (chopped), and 
mix thoroughly. Let it cook for about 
three or four minutes, and add a half 
pint of oyster stock. This is delicious 
poured over the sliced pie. 



Shrimp in Tomato Catsnp. 

Chevrettes d la Sauce T ornate 

100 River Shrimp. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Tomato Catsup. 

3 Hard-Boiled Eggs. Salt, Pepper and 

Cayenne to Taste. 

Boil the Shrimp and pick. Put 
them into a salad dish, season well 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



with black pepper and salt and a dash 
of Cayenne. Then add two table- 
spoonfuls of tomato catsup to every 
half pint of Shrimp. Garnish with 
lettuce leaves and hard-boiled egg and 
serve. 

Shrimp Salad. 

Mayonnaise de Chcvrettet 

100 River or Lake Shrimp. 

1 Small Onion. 

1 Bunch of Celery. 

3 Hard-Boiled Eggs. Salt and Pepper to 

Taste. 
Sliced Lemons. Beets and Celery Tips 

to Garnish. 

Boil and pick the Shrimp, accord- 
ing to the recipe given. If River 
Shrimp are used, serve whole; if 
T^ake Shrimp, slice in two, as they 
will be more dainty, and season well 
with salt and pepper. Chop celery 
fine and add a little onion. Place the 
Shrimp in the salad dish and pour 
over all fine Mayonnaise Sauce (see 
recipe) and garnish with sliced hard- 
boiled eggs, sliced lemon, beets and 
celery tops. 

A Sliriinp Bush. 

Buiaaon de Chevrettea 

100 Lake Shrimp. 
Celery Tips. Asparagus Tips. 

A Shrimp Bush is a famous Creole 
hors d'oeuvre, and forms a very hand- 
some table decoration also. Boil the 
Shrimp according to recipe. (See rec- 
ipe Boiled Shrimp.) Take a glass 
fruit or cake stand, the fruit stand 
with several tiers being prettier. As 
Shrimp are small, they cannot be 
hung gracefully around the stand as 
in a Crawfish Bush. (See recipe.) 
They are, therefore, piled, first into 
a small deep dish, and a close cover 
is put on to press them down. They 
are then turned over and will be 
found clinging together in one solid 
mass. If a cake stand is used, set a 
glass bowl or goblet on it. Place 
the Shrimp on top of this glass bowl 
or goblet; then take dainty bits of 
celery tips and asparagus tips, and 
heap around as for a border. Another 
row is formed a little lower, and again 
intermingled with asparagus tips and 
celery tops, between which the pink 
Shrimp are gracefully placed and 
glimmer. The effect is very pretty. 
The Shrimp are served from the bush 
as an hors d'oeuvre. The effect of 
the pink against the green looks like 
a bush of green and red. 



, CRABS. 

Dea Crahca 

New Orleans points with pride, and 
Justly, not only to the splendid supply 
of Crabs that are to be found at all 
seasons in her markets, but to the va- 
rious delightful ways that the natives 
have of serving them. The following 
are recipes that have been handed 
down by the Creoles from, generation 
to generation. 



Hard-Shcll Craba 

Crahca Dura 

There Is a science in eating the 
hard -shell Crab cooked in its own 
shell. The Creoles have reduced this 
to a fine point, , and a crab may be 
eaten without once using the fingers, 
if one only follows the following sim- 
ple directions: 



How to Eat a Hard-Shell Crab Cooked 
In Its Shell. 

The shell and claws should be 
cracked in the kitchen, very gently, 
before being brought to the table, if 
the Crabs are boiled and served whole. 
By a delicate manipulation of the 
knife and fork remove the "apron" 
or "tablier," which is the small loose 
shell running to a point about the 
middle of the under shell. Then cut 
the Crab claws off. still using the 
knife and fork, and finally cut the 
Crab into parts, and these again in 
two. Proceed to extract the meat 
from each quarter with the fork and 
eat with salt and pepper. It is con- 
sidered quite "comme 11 faut" to use 
the fingers, however, in holding 'the 
Crabs, extracting the meat with the 
prongs of the fork. 



Boiled Crabs. 

Orahea BotUllia 

1 Dozen Pine Crabs. 1 Bunch of Celery 

and Celery Tops. 

2 Dozen Allspice. 4 Sprigs of Thyme. 

4 Sprigs of Sweet Basil. 
4 Sprigs of Sweet Marjoram. 3 Blades 

of Mace. 

3 Bay Leaves. 4 Sprigs of Chives. 

A Red Pepper Pod. A Dash of Cayenne. 

Black Pepper and Salt Sufficient to 

Make a Brine. 

Proceed in the same manner as for 
boiling shrimp. Buy fine, large Crabs. 
The livelier they are the better for the 
Crabs must be alive when put into the 



58 



THB PICAYUNE GREX>I/E €XX>K BOOK 



pot. Throw into a large pot of water 
bunches of celery tops, stalks of cel- 
ery chopped fine, four or five large 
sprigs each of thyme, chopped sweet 
basil, marjoram, chives, two dozen all- 
spice, three blades of mace, three bay 
leaves, chopped fine; a pod of red pep- 
per, a dash of Cayenne, black pepper 
and salt enough to make the water 
briney. When this has boiled long 
enough to have extracted all the flavor 
of the herbs, put in the crabs and let 
them boil rapidly for twenty min- 
utes, or until the shells are a bright 
red. but not one minute longer than 
this, Its they will become watery. Let 
them cool a little in their own water 
and then take out, strip off the "dead 
man's fingers,'* crack the claws with- 
out breaking open, and pile high in 
a broad platter and serve with salt 
and pepper. 

Stewed Crabs. 

Crabe% d la Creole 

1 Dozen Large Live Crabs. 

Tablespoonful of Butter or Lard. 

1 Stalk Chopped Celery. 

1 Dozen Fresh Tomatoes or 1 Can. 

Thyme, 
Parsley, Bay Leaf, 1 Clove, 

Garlic. 
Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

Boll a dozen fine large Crabs about 
five minutes in order to kill them. 
Take them off the fire and when 
sufficiently cooled cut off the claws 
and crack, separating the Joints. 
Remove the "apron" or "tablier" of 
the Crab and the "dead man's fin- 
gers," and take off the spongy sub- 
stance. These are the portions that 
are uneatable. Remove the shell, cut 
the body of the crab into four parts, 
cutting down the center across. Chop 
a large onion very fine and brown with 
butter or lard, using a tablespoonful 
of either. Add a dozen fine, large, 
fresh tomatoes, chopped fine, in their 
liquor, and brown nicely, stir in 
chopped celery, thyme, parsley, one 
bay leaf, chopped fine; pepper and 
salt to taste, and a dash of Cayenne 
pepper. Add one clove of garlic, 
chopped fine. Taste and add more 
seasoning if necessary. Let the mix- 
ture cook ten minutes, then add the 
Crabs and let them cook ten minutes 
longer. Never add water to this sauce, 
as the liquor of the tomatoes is suffi- 
cient and makes an excellent sauce. 
This is a fine fast-day dish. Serve 
with boiled rice or potatoes boiled 
whole. 



Fried Crabs. 

Orabes FriU 

1 Dozen Fine Large Crabs. 

1 Pint of Milk. 

6 Tablespoonfuls of Butter or Lard. 

Stale Bread Crumbs. Grated. 
Thyme, Parsley, Bay Leaf, Onions. 

Boil the Crabs according to recipe. 
Cut off the claws and crack and cut 
the Crabs into quarters as for ste'w- 
ing. Season well with pepper and salt. 
Have ready a pint of milk. Mix pep- 
per and salt in proportions of about 
two teaspoonfuls each. Have ready a 
pan of boiling lard and a plate of 
grated bread crumbs. Dip the Crabs 
into the milk and then roll in the 
bread crumbs and drop into the boil- 
ing lard, frying about ten minutes or 
until a golden brown. Serve on a 
platter with the claws piled in the 
center, the bodies of the crabs 
grouped nicely around, and garnish 
with sprigs of parsley. This is a de- 
licious way of serving Hard-Shell 
Crabs. 

Stnfted Crabs. 

CrabgB FarcU 

1 Dozen Large, Fine Crabs. 

1 Liarge Onion. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Bay Leaf. 3 Sprigs of Thyme. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

Hot Pepper. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt to Taste. 

1 Cup of Wet Bread. 

Boil the Crabs according to recipe. 
Take off the fire and let them cool in 
their own water. After having re- 
moved the uneatable portions, pick 
out all the meat. Season well with 
salt and black pepper. Chop the 
onions and herbs very fine. Put 
a tablespoonful of butter heaping over 
into the frying pan. As it melts add 
the chopped onion and when it begins 
to fry add the crab meat, which has 
been thoroughly seasoned with the 
chopped thyme, bay leaf, parsley and 
a dash of Cayenne to taste. Let this 
fry, put in a small clove of garlic, 
chopped very fine, and lastly add the 
bread, which has been wet and thor- 
oughly squeezed of all water. Mix 
this well with the ingredients in the 
frying pan and let it fry about five 
minutes longer. Then take off the 
fire and let it get cool. Wash a dozen 
of the finest and largest crab shells, 
or as many as this mixture will fill, 
and stuff them well with the crabmeat. 
Sprinkle these with grated bread 
crumbs and put a dot of butter on 
top of each; place in the oven and 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



59 



bake about five minutes, or until a 
nice brown. Place on a platter and 
garnish with sprigs of parsley or celery 
tops. This is an excellent method of 
preparing Stuffed Crabs for family 
use. 

Stuffed Crabs— No. 2. 

Orahes Farcis 

' 2 Dozen Large, Fine Crabs. 
Grated Bread Crumbs. 
Salt and Pepper. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 

1 Bav Leaf. 2 Hard-Boiled Eggs. 

Thyme, Parsley and Onion. 

Cayenne to Taste. 

Boil the Crabs according to recipe. 
Clean and cut and pick out all the 
meat. Chop an onion fine; chop the 
thyme, bay leaf and parsley and hard- 
boiled eggs, and mix well with the 
crab meat. Season highly with hot 
pepper and salt to taste. Put one 
heaping tablespoonful of butter into 
the frying pan and as it melts add the 
onion and fry it carefully without 
burning. Add the crab meat, and, 
if desired, the very small clove of 
garlic, chopped very fine. Let this 
fry about five minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Mix thoroughly, fry three 
minutes longer, and then take off the 
stove. Stuff the crab shells, forming 
a rolling lump in the middle. Sprinkle 
lightly with grated bread crumbs, and 
put a dot of butter. on top. Place in 
a quick oven and let them bake about 
five minutes, or until a nice brown. 
The same or even better results are 
obtained by omitting the egg, many 
claiming that the deMcate flavor of 
the crab meat is more daintily pre- 
served without this addition. This is 
a delightful way of serving Crabs for 
luncheons, or where it is not neces- 
sary to make, as the Creoles say, "a 
long family dish." 



Deviled Crabs. 

Orabea d la Diahle 

1 Dozen Fine, Large Crabs. 
^ 2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Tablespoon of Salt. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

% Pint of Cream. % Nutmeg Grated. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

The Yolks of 4 Hard-Boiled Eggs. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

Boil the Crabs according to recipe. 
Take out and drain after they have 
cooled in their own water. Break off 
the claws, separate the shells, remove 
the spongy portions and the "dead 
man's Angers," and then pick out the 



meat Put the cream on to boll, rub 
the flour and butter together well and 
add to the boiling cream. Stir and 
cook for two minutes. Take from the 
fire and add the crab meat, the yolks 
of the hard-boiled eggs, mashed very 
fine; the chopped parsley, grated nut- 
meg, salt and Cayenne. Clean the 
upper shells of the Crabs, fill them 
with the mixture, brush over with a 
beaten egg, sprinkle with bread 
crumbs and put in a quick oven to 
brown; or, better still, if you have a 
frying basket, plunge the Crabs into 
the boiling fat or lard until a nice 
brown. But many prefer them baked. 

Scalloped Crabs. 

Coquilles de Crabea 

The Meat of 1 Dozen Picked Crabs. 
A Dash of Grated Nutmeg. 

Bread Crumbs. 1 Egg. 
Pepper and Salt to Taste. 

Boil and pick the Crabs according 
to recipe given above. Beat an egg 
thoroughly and add to the meat, 
which has been seasoned highly with 
Cayenne and salt to taste. Take one 
clove of garlic, chop fine and add. 
then sift into this mixture fine grated 
bread crumbs or cracker crumbs, and 
mix thoroughly. Beat an egg, roll 
the Crabs into boulets or meat balls, 
and then bind by rolling lightly in the 
egg. Dip in the bread crumbs, grated 
nicely, and then drop into boiling 
lard, and fry until a pale golden 
brown, which will generally require 
about three minutes. The secret is to 
have them cooked Just enough, for, as 
a rule, they are generally overdone. 
AVash and clean the shells thoroughly; 
wipe dry, set a boulet in the center 
of each and garnish prettily with 
sprigs of parsley and sliced lemon. 
This is a dainty dish for breakfast or 
luncheon. They must be served very 
hot. 

Crab Croquettes. 

Crahes en Croquettes 

1 IDozen Crabs 

1 Cup of Wet Bread, Squeezed Well. 

1 Onion. 1 Clove of Garlic. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

Boil the Crabs clean -and pick. Then 
season the meat well with salt and 
pepper. Chop the onion fine, also the 
herbs. Put a tablespoonfi:il of butter 
in the frying pan, and as it melts add 
the chopped onion. When it begins 



60 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



to fry> add the crab meat, which has 
been mixed thorousrhly with the 
chopped thyme, bay leaf, parsley and 
garlic and a dash of Cayenne. Add 
the bread, which has been thor- 
oughly squeezed, and mix all and fry 
about three minutes. Take off the 
fire, and when cool form the mixture 
into cylindrical shapes of about two 
or three inches in length and one in * 
thickness. Roll in grated bread 
crumbs and fry in boiling lard. Serve 
hot on a dish nicely garnished with 
parsley and sliced lemon. 

Crab Salad. 

Crahva en Salade 

2 Dozen Fine, Lar^e Crabs. 

12 Celery Stalks. 1 Dozen Olives. 

A Mayonnaise Sauce. 

Boil the Crabs according to recipe. 
Clean and pick out all the meat. Sea- 
son well with salt and pepper and a 
dash of Cayenne. Chop the celery fine 
and mix with the crab meat. Place 
on a dish in pyramidal shape and pour 
over nicely a Sauce d. la Mayonnaise. 
(See recipe.) Garnish tastefully with 
sliced hard-boiled eggs, sliced beets, 
asparagus or celery tips on top and 
around with sprigs of parsley and 
asparagus tips, -with sliced lemon and 
sliced hard-boiled egg alternating. 
This is a delicious salad. 

Crab Salad — No. 2. 

Crahcs en Salade 

1 Dozen Large Crabs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Olive Oil. 

1 Tablespoonful of French Vinegar. 

1 Saltspoonful Salt. 1 Head Lettuce. 

Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Pick the boiled crab carefully, keep- 
ing the pieces as large as possible. 
Lay in a salad bowl. Mix a dressing 
of two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, 
one of French vinegar, one saltspoon 
of salt, black pepper and Cayenne, 
according to taste, and pour over the 
crabs, which have been cooled in the 
Ice box. Clean the lettuce well and 
put a row of crisp leaves around the 
edge of the salad dish. Garnish nicely 
with sliced lemon and hard-boiled 
^ eggs sliced. 

Crab Pie. 

Tol-au-Vcnt dc Crahcs 

1 Dozen Large Crabs. 

Slictd Stale Bread. 

Butter. Milk. Cayenne. Salt. 

Boll according to recipe one dozen 
flne, large Crabs and pick out all the 



meat. Season nicely with salt. Cayenne 
and chopped thyme and bay leaf. Take 
stale bread and slice very thin. Lay in 
a little milk to moisten. Butter a ba.k- 
ing pan and cover the bottom with. a. 
layer of bread. Then put in a layer 
of crab meat and lay over at interv&ls 
slices of lemon cut very fine and thin. 
Dot here and there with bits of but- 
ter, and then spread over another 
layer of bread. Then another layer 
of crabs, and repeat till the meat la 
used up. Lay on top a thick sprink- 
ling of bread crumbs, dotted with 
butter. Place in the oven and bake 
for about twenty minutes. Serve hot 

Soft-Shell Crabs 

Crahca Moua 
The Soft-Shell Crab has always been 
considered a great luxury in New Or- 
leans, where its possibilities as a most 
delicate and savory dish were first 
discovered. Northern epicures, quick 
to appreciate the toothsome morsel, 
returned. to their homes loud in their 
praises of this discovery. The Soft- 
Shell Crab is now being shipped 
North, and is a popular feature of 
the Northern markets, though the 
prices range very high. The Soft- 
Shell Crab is found the year around 
in the famous French Market, This 
Crab is at its best when prepared 
according to the following methods: 

Frlocl Soft-Shell Crabs 

Crahva Moua Frita 

1 Dozen Soft-Shell Crabs. 

1 Quart of Milk. 

Bread Crumbs, Salt, Pepper and 

Cayenne to Taste. 

The greatest care must be taken In 
preparing and cleaning the Crab. 
Wash carefully, removing all sand, 
but do not scald or blanch them, as 
this destroys the fine flavor com- 
pletely. ^Remove the spongy, feathery 
substances under the side points. 
These are called the "maneaters," 
and are very irritating and indigesti- 
ble. Remove also the sand bag or 
"sand pouch" from under the shells 
Just between the eyes; also remove 
the "tablier" or "apron." Then wash 
well in cold water, and dry with a 
towel. Take a pint of milk and sea- 
son well with pepper and salt; season 
the crabs and soak them In the milk, 
rubbing thoroughly, so that the milk 
may thoroughly impregnate them. 



1 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



61 



Take out and roll in a little sifted 
flour. Pat lightly with • the hand, 
shake off superfluous flour and fry in 
boiling: grease, being always careful 
to have sufficient grease in the pan 
for the crabs to swim in it. When 
a delicate golden brown, take out with 
a skimmer. Drain on a piece of heated 
brown paper, and serve on a bed of 
fried parsley, with garnishes of sliced 
lemon. Serve with "Sauce k la Tar- 
tare." (See recipe.) 

Broiled Soft-Shell Cra1>s 

Crahea d la Creole ' 

1 Dozen Solf-Shell Crabs. 

1 Pint of Milk. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Flour,»Slfted. 

Butter. Sliced Lemon. 

Parsley Garnish. 

It was a celebrated New Orleans 
chef who first decided to broil the 
Soft-Shell Crab. His success was 
great and "Crabes k la Creole" were 
in great demand at once at the hotels 
and restaurants. To broil the Soft- 
Shell Crab always use the double wire 
broiler. Clean the crab according to 
the method given above and wash in 
cold "<^'ater. Dry with a towel and 
season well. Season a pint of milk 
with salt and black pepper, and soak 
the crabs in it so as to thoroughly 
impregnate them with the milk. Then 
pat lightly with a little ''flour and 
brush over with melted butter. Place 
between the broiler and broil till a 
delicate brown over a slow flre. It 
will generally require about flfteen 
minutes to cook thoroughly. Serve 
on a platter, nicely garnished with 
parsley sprigs and lemon cut in quar- 
ters. Pour over the crabs a little 
melted butter and chopped parsley. 

CJRAWFISH 

Des &crevi»8€9 
Besides the famous Crawfish Bisque 
(Bisque d'ficrevisses, see recipe) the 
Creoles have tiainty ways of serving 
this typical Louisiana shell fish. 
Among the most popular are the fol- 
lowing: 

Boiled Crawfish 
Dca tcrcviascs Bouilliea 

50 Crawfish. 1 Gallon of Water. 

1 Herb Bouquet. 
Half Gallon of French Vinegar. 

Put the water on to boil, adding 
the chopped herb bouquet, one clove 
of garlic (chopped fine), one dozen 
allspice and six cloves. When the 



water has boiled long enough to have 
extracted all the Juices of the herb 
bouquet, add the vinegar and salt — 
enougrh to make it almost briny, and 
Cayenne enough to make it hot. Then 
throw in the crawfish and let them 
boil about twenty minutes or until a 
bright red. Set them to cool in their 
own water and serve on a platter 
piled high in pyramidal shape, and 
garnish nicely with sprigs of parsley 
and sliced lemon. Serve with salt 
and pepper, oil and Chili vinegar, each 
person making the dressing as it suits 
his taste. 

Crawfish Baked k la Creole 

£creviaaea Chratin^ea d la Criole 

50 Crawfish. 2 Livers. 

^ Can of Mushrooms. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Bouquet of Fine Herbs. 

The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Boil according to recipe fifty large, 
fine Crawfish. When cooked, allow 
them to cool in their own water. 
Clean them, picking off the shells and 
leaving the Crawfish whole. Take 
out all the smallest ones, and cut off 
the tail ends of the largest and place 
with the small ones; chop the re- 
mainder of the large Crawfish, and 
make a dressing with two chopped 
livers, parsley, the minced contents of 
one-half can of mushrooms, the bou- 
quet of fine herbs, consisting of thyme, 
bay leaf, sweet marjoram, etc.; chop 
a half dozen shallots and add to the 
dressing, and season highly with Cay- 
enne and salt and black pepper to 
taste. Cut up the yolks of two eggs 
and mix with a cup of the soft portion 
of bread, which has been wet and 
thoroughly squeezed of all water. 
Place two tablespoonfuls of butter in 
a frying pan and add the dressing 
when it begins to heat; cook about 
ten minutes and then place in the 
dish in which the Crawfish are to be 
served, making a bed of the dressing. 
Arrange with symmetry and grace 
the reserve Crawfish upon this bed; 
cover lightly with the rest of the 
stuffing, and dot with small bits of 
butter, after sprinkling with grated 
bread crumbs. Pour over all a Cream 
Sauce and the Juice of a lemon. Place 
in the oven and let it bake about ten 
or fifteen minutes, and serve with 
Cream Sauce seasoned with lemon 
Juice. (See recipe. Cream Sauce.) 



62 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



A Crawfish Bush 

BuisBon d'Soreviaaea 

100 Pine Crawfish. Celery Tips. 
AsparafiTUB Tips. Parsley Tips. 

This is a celebrated Creole hors 
d'oeuvre, as also a table garnish. Boil 
the Crawfish according to recipe. (See 
recipe.) Take a glass fruit or cake 
stand and place in the center of the 
table. Set a goblet upon it. Fit the 
goblet with celery tips and parsley 
tips, and hang a number of Crawfish 
gracefully around the goblet from the 
rim or outer edges. Continue hanging 
the dish with celery, asparagus and 
parsley tips, and hanging the Craw- 
fish around the edges of the fruit 
standp and in and out amid the green- 
ery. The effect of the red amid the 
green is very pretty, presenting the 
appearance of a beautiful bush of red 
and green. The Crawfish are served 
from the bush. 

TURTIiE 
Green Turtle Steaks 

FiletB de Tortue 

2 Pounds of Turtle Steaks. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. Sliced Lem- 
on and Parsley to Garnish. 

Current Jelly Sauce or Sauce Poivrade. 

Select the female Turtle, as the 
meat is best. If bought alive from the 



market, clean according to recipe. 
(See recipe for cleaning Turtle.) Otli- 
erwise the butcher may prepare it, as 
i<i frequently done in the New Orleans 
market. 

Turtle meat is very irregular, there- 
fore cut the meat into thick slices or 
steaks, about the size of a filet of 
beef, and batter down with the hands 
to make smooth and regular. Then 
fry in butter. Season well with salt 
and pepper and garnish with parsley 
and lemon, and serve with Currant 
Jelly Sauce or Sauce Poivrade. (See 
recipes.) 

Steived Turtle 

Ragout dc Tortue d la BourgeoUe 

2 Pounds of Turtle Meat. 1 Onion. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter or I«ard. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
1 Bay Leaf. 1 Clove of Garlic. 1 Sprifir 

of Thyme. 

1 Cup of Water. 

A Wineglassful of Grape Juice. 

Cut the meat of the Turtle about an 
inch in size. Chop an onion and put 
It Into a saucepan, with a tablespoon- 
ful of lard to brown. As it begins to 
brown, add a tablespoonful of fiour, 
one bay leaf, one clove of garlic and 
a sprig of thyme, chopped very fine. 
Mix this thoroughly with the turtle 
meat, then add a cup of water, and 
cook for half an hour. 



CHAPTER XI 




ND CANNED E 




Poiaaona 8al6a 



Halibut, Salmon, Fresh Codfish, 
Fresh Lobster, Shad and other fish 
peculiar to the Northern and Eastern 
waters are rarely seen on New Or- 
leans tables, except in the hotels and 
restaurants, which import them. With 
these fish. In their fresh state, this 
book will not treat. But the Salt 
Codfish, Salted Mackerel and Canned 
Salmon are In general family use. The 
Salted Mackerel and Codfish, indeed, 
enter largely into the dally household 
economy of New Orleans, especially 
on fast days. The following recipes 
are modeled after Creole methods: 



Salted Codfish 

De la Morue 

First, and above all, it is necessary 
to "dessaler la Morue," as the Creoles 
put it, or to remove every trace and ap- 
pearance of the salt In which the fish 
has been put up. Always soak the 
Codfish at least overnight or twenty- 
four hours before using in cold water, 
changing the water as often as possi- 
ble, to assist In removing the salt; 
and always boil on a hot fire fifteen 
or twenty minutes before making Into 
any of the following dishes: 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE CX>OK BOOK 



63 



Bofled Codfish 

La Morue Bouillie 

Codfish. 3 Dozen Oysters. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Table- 
spoonful of Flour. 
2 Gills of Fresh Cream or Milk. 
The Oyster Water. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
A Dash of Cayenne. 

Boil the Codfish about thirty or 
forty minutes, after soaking over- 
night; drain and serve with an Oyster 
Sauce, or Sauce aux Hultres, prepared 
as follows: Make a Cream Sauce 
(see recipe), only use, in this case, the 
strained juice of the oyster to blend 
the flour and butter, and add the rich 
cream or milk to make up the desired 
quantity. Scald the oysters in their 
own water about three minutes, and 
then add to the sauce, mixing thor- 
oughly, seasoning with salt, pepper 
and Cayenne, using preferably celery 
salt; let it boil up once and serve with 
the boiled Codfish. Egg Sauce (see 
recipe) may also be used with Boiled 
Codfish, but is not to be compared 
to the Oyster Sauce. 



Stewed Codfish 

Mofue 8auHe d la Lyonnaiae 

Twelve Small Potatoes, or Left-Overs. 

Salt Cod, Enough for Six Persons. 

1 Quart of Milk. 

1 Dozen White Onions. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour Blended With 

Two of Milk. 

If the potatoes are not left over from 
the day before, wash and peel them 
and also the onion; boll the potatoes 
till tender; soak the fish overnight, 
and boil for twenty minutes, or until 
tender. Then cut the fish into pieces 
of about two or three inches in length. 
Put a tablespoonful of lard in the 
stewpan and lay in the potatoes and 
then %he onions, and the Codfish on 
top; add enough cold water to cover 
the ivhole, and let it simmer until 
the fish is well cooked. Then take 
out the fish, and allow the potatoes 
and onions to simmer on. Remove 
every piece of bone from the fish, and 
trim edges nicely. Dissolve in another 
stewpan the butter and fiour, as di- 
rected above; let this simmer gently 
without browning, and then put in 
the potatoes, onions and fish in the 
order given above, pour over this the 
quart of cream or milk; let it sim- 
mer for about ten minutes more till 
the milk comes to a boil, and serve 
hot 



Fried Codfish 

La Morue Frite 

Codfish. 1 Pint of Milk. 

1 "Bee, 1 Cup of Grated Bread Crumbs. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Parsley and Lemon to Garnish. 

Soak the Codfish overnight, then 
boil twenty minutes, or until very ten- 
der; take out and cut into slices 
about one inch thick and dry with a 
clean towel, have ready a pint of milk 
and season well with pepper only; 
season the Codfish, rubbing a little 
black pepper to taste and a dash of 
Cayenne over it. Soak the fish in 
the milk, and have ready some crushed 
bread crumbs and a well-beaten egg', 
when the fish is well soaked, dip each 
slice first into the egg^ and then in 
bread crumbs, patting lightly, and 
drop into the boiling lard; the fish 
must swim in the lard. When fried 
a golden brown, take out with a 
skimmer, drain off all fat, and serve 
hot on a bed of fried parsley, gar- 
nished with sliced lemon. 

Creamed Codfish 

Morue d la Cr^me 

3 Cups of Picked Codfish. 

1 Pint and a Half of Cream. 

The Yolk of 1 Egg. 

Soak the Codfish overnight, and 
then let it boil about forty minutes. 
Then take off, scald again and drain, 
and again scald and drain, allowing it 
to stand each time about four or five 
minutes before changing the water. 
Put one large tablespoonful of butter 
in the frying pan; when melted add 
the flour and blend, without brown- 
ing; then add the milk, stirring con- 
stantly until it boils. Next put in the 
fish, seasoning highly with pepper 
and Cayenne. Let it boil about ten 
minutes longer, and take off the fire; 
then add the yolk of an egg, which 
has been beaten thoroughly, and serve 
hot, with plain boiled potatoes but- 
tered. 

Codfish Balls 

Croquettes de Morue 

2 Cups of Picked Codfish. 

2 Cups of Mashed Potatoes. 

% Cup of Cream. 

Bread Crumbs. 2 Beaten Eggs. 

Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Soak the Codfish overnight and boil 
until tender. Pour off this water, and 
scald again with hot water; pick fine, 
scald again and then drain thoroughly, 
pressing out all the water. Mash the 
potatoes, and mix In them about three 



64 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



tablespoonfuls of butter. Then add 
the Codfish and mix thoroughly, sea- 
soning with about a teaspoonful of 
black pepper, and a dash of Cay- 
enne to taste. Add to this the cream, 
and again mix. Mold the Codfish into 
round or oval balls; then roll in the 
egg, which has been well beaten, and 
pass through the bread crumbs, pat- 
ting gently, and lay them in a frying 
basket and sink them deep into the 
boiling lard, having tested the heat 
with a bit of bread. The balls must 
swim in the lard. Otherwise drop in- 
to the boiling lard. When a golden 
brown, lift out the basket, or take out 
the balls with a skimmer; drain well 
of all the fat by laying on a heated 
brown paper, and then serve hot on a 
dish garnished with sprigs of parsley. 
This quantity will make about a dozen 
and a half balls or croquettes. There 
is no difference between the prepara- 
tion of the Codfish Ball and the Cod- 
fish Croquette, but n^erely an altera- 
tion in the manner of molding, the 
croquette being oval or elongated, in 
cylindrical shapes, and the ball being 
molded round and a little flattened 
on top. 

Codfish Bacalao 

Bacalao d la Vizcaina 

1 Pound of Salted Codfish. 

1 Large Onion, Chopped Fine. 
1 Pint of Rich Tomato Sauce. 

2 Cloves of Garlic. Chopped Fine. 
CroOtons. 1 Red Pepper. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Olive Oil. 
Pepper to Taste. 6 Tomatoes. 

Thyme. Bay Leaf. Parsley. 

Soak the Codfish well overnight, 
and in the morning boil for about 
forty-five minutes, until very tender. 
When you set it to boil, put the fish 
first in cold water. After it has boiled 
scald again thoroughly, pick out all 
the bones and set it away to cool. 
Then prepare a rich Tomato Sauce, 
according to the following directions: 
Take six large fresh tomatoes, or a 
half can of tomatoes, and add a heap- 
ing tablespoonful of butter, four sprigs 
of parsley, thyme and two bay leaves, 
all chopped very fine; add two chopped 
onions and a clove of garlic, chopped 
fine, that have been fried in a little 
butter. Now put the saucepan, with 
the sauce, into boiling water, and add 
pepper and Cayenne and a pinch 
of salt to taste. Stew very gently for 
about two hours or longer, if neces- 
sary. Then strain the sauce and make 
a roux with one tablespoonful of but- 



ter and two of flour; stir, let ft 
brown lightly, and put it in the sauce. 
Boil about four minutes longer until 
rich and thick. Then fry the re- 
maining large onion and clove of er&r- 
lie, chopped very fine, in a gill of 
olive oil, or two tablespoonfuls of 
butter if the taste of the oil is dis- 
liked, and when it browns add this to 
the sauce with a red sweet pepper, 
finely chopped. Cut about a dozen 
Crodtons, in dice or diamond shapes, 
from the soft part of the bread, and 
fry in boiling lard. Heat a dish, put 
in the Codfish, pour over it the To- 
mato Sauce, border the dish with the 
fried Crodtons, and set in the oven, 
allowing it to bake ten or fifteen min- 
utes longer. The Spanish red peppers 
are the best for this sauce. Black 
pepper may be added if desired. ' 

SALT MACKEREL 

Du Maqucreau 
Salt Mackerel is either boiled or 
broiled, and either method of cooking 
according to the following recipes 
makes a palatable and delicately 
toothsome dish. 

Boiled Salt Mackerel 

Maqucreau BouUli 

2 Salt Mackerel. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Chopped Parsley and Sliced Lemon to 

Garnish. 

Soak the Mackerel overnight, and 
in the morning take out of the water, 
wash thoroughly, removing every 
portion of salt, and wash again. Have 
ready a deep pah of boiling water; 
place the Mackerel in it and let it 
boil ten or fifteen minutes until done, 
which can be known by the flesh be- 
ginning to part from the bones. Serve 
whole on a platter garnished with 
parsley. Pour over the Mackerel 
melted butter and chopped parsley, 
and bring to the table very hot. 

Mackerel boiled or broiled is a very 
nice breakfast dish on fast daya Serve 
with potatoes, boiled whole or made 
into croquettes. 

Broiled Mackerel 

Maqucreau OriUS 

2 Salt Mackerel. 1 Cup of Milk. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter or a Cream 

Sauce. 

Sliced Lemon, Olives and Parsley. 

Sprigs to Garnish. 

Soak the Mackerel and wash thor- 
oughly as directed above, only using 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIE COOK BOOK 



65 



boiling water. Have ready some milk, 
seasoned well with black pepper, and 
soak the Mackerel in the milk until 
thoroughly impregnated. Take out 
and wipe dry with a towel. Then 
smear the Mackerel with butter, and 
place between a double broiler, over 
a slow Are, broiling about fifteen or 
twenty minutes, the under side being 
allowed to broil first. When done, 
take off and pour over it melted butter 
and chopped parsley; garnish the dish 
with sprigs of parsley, sliced lemons 
and olives, and serve hot. A Cream 
Sauce may be also served instead of 
the butter, and makes a delicious dish. 

SAIiMON 

Mayonnaise de Saumon 

1 Can of Salmon. 2 Heads of Crisp 

Lettuce. 
1 Cup of Milk. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 2 Table- 
spoonfuls of Flour. 
1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Sauce ft la Mayonnaise. 

To one can of Salmon allow two 
good-sized heads of young lettuce. 
Make a bed of the crisp hearts of the 
leaves, and tear the other leaves into 
small pieces with a fork, making very 
delicate shreds. Drain the oil from 
the can of Salmon, and separate tho 
fish into fiakes. Take a cupful of boil- 
ing milk, a tablespoonful of butter 
and two of flour, and stir over the 
fire until quite smooth. Add to this 
a tablespoonful of chopped parsley 
and the Salmon. Season with pepper 
and salt, and let it cook about ten 
minutes. Set away to cool, and then 
place on the bed of lettuce leaves. 
Cover with a Sauce fi. la Mayonnaise 
(see recipe), and garnish nicely with 
sliced hard-boiled eggs, celery tips, 
etc., and serve. 

Salmon Salad 

Saumon en Salade 

1 Can of Salmon. 

1-3 the Quantity of Chopped Celery. 

2 Hard-Boiled Eggs. 

Sliced Lemon. Olives. 1 Pickled Beet. 

A Plain French Dressing. 

Flake the Salmon, heap it in a 

salad bowl, and mix with chopped 



celery, using one-third of the latter 
in proportion to the quantity pf Sal- 
mon. Add a Plain French Dressing. 
(See recipe.) When ready to serve 
turn Into a salad dish, on which you 
have arranged a crisp bed of lettuce. 
Garnish with sliced lemon, olives and 
hard-boiled eggs, and with, one dain- 
tily sliced pickled beef. 



HERRINGS 

Des Harengs 

The Salted Herrings, such as come 
to New Orleans, must first of all be 
soaked thoroughly overnight, or 
longer, to take away all salt. Then 
they are cleaned nicely and broiled 
and served with a cream sauce or 
drawn butter sauce, preferably the 
former. They are also cut into filets 
and eaten without further cooking, or 
"Cru," as we say here, and also as 
an hors d'oeuvre. 



ANCHOVY 

Des Anchois 

Anchovies are served as a prelim- 
inary to the dinner, being drained of 
the oil which clings to them after 
being taken from the can. Three or 
four Anchovies are then placed be- 
tween delicate soda biscuits, and tied 
with a bit of ribbon In squares, with 
a bow cut short In the center. The 
effect is very pretty. The Anchovies 
are also mashed and placed between 
the crackers, like a sandwich. Either 
way is excellent. 



Anchovy Salad 

Salade d'Anchois 

This salad is a dainty dish for 
luncheon or supper. Have an oval 
dish and arrange the Anchovies, 
drained of oil, crosswise on a bed of 
crjsp lettuce, or of chopped water-* 
cress. Surround with a border of 
chopped whites of eggs and a similar 
border of chopped watercresses, and 
pour over all a sour French Dressing. 
(See recipe.) Anchovies are used as 
an hors d'oeuvre. 



66 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER XII 




Dea Viandes 



Meats are, of course, common to 
every clime and country, but not every 
people have the palatable and appe- 
tizing methods of preparation that 
have been handed down to the Creoles 
of Louisiana by their French and 
Spanish ancestors and so modified and 
improved upon that it may be said 
that they have created a new school 
of cookery in the choice preparation 
and serving of beef, veal, mutton, 
pork and venison. Our "roties" or 
roasts, our method's of broiling, our 
delightful "ragoflts." our famous 
"grillades," our unique '^daubes,*' in 
a word, our dozen and one nutritious 
and agreeable combinations of meats, 
with vegetables, and our unequaled 
manner of seasoning, have given to 
the Creole kitchen a Ifame that has 
been as lasting as well deserved. 

The Creoles have discovered that 
almost any portion of the beef from 
the head to the tail may be delicately 
and temptingly prepared, so as to 
please even the most fastidious pal- 
ates. They have reduced the science 
of cooking meats to a practical sys- 
tem which enables the family of mod- 
erate means to live not only economi- 
cally, but with much real luxury. 

Rules Which the Creoles I\>llow in 
Cooking Meats 

Always remember that Beef and 
Mutton must be cooked rare, and 
Pork and Veal well done. 

Beef should always be roasted, 
broiled or smothered. 

Mutton may be roasted, broiled, 
boiled or stewed. 

Veal may be roasted, stewed, smoth- 
ered or fried, when cut into chops. 

Pork is always roasted or fried. 

Ham is broiled, boiled or fried. 

Bacon is broiled, fried or boiled, the 
latter when cooked with vegetables. 

Venison is roasted or made into 
"ragotlt," like Beef k la Mode, and the 



cutlets are broiled. The meat of veni- 
son should be of fine grain and well 
covered with fat. If the venison is 
very young, the hoofs are but slightly 
opened; if old, the hoofs stand wide 

BEEF 

Dtt Boeuf 

Hoast Beef 

BoeuS Roti 
The first four ribs of the beef are 
always the best for a roast. The ten! 
derloin lies here, and three good ribs 

iT V^'} ""'•" "^ ^^^ butchers term 
it should be enough to make a roaS 

ber that if the roast is cut too thin 
the juices dry too rapidly and the 
exquisite flavor is gone. After the 
ribs come the sirloin and the spine 
bone as second and third choice. Have 
if ^m u^'' skewer the roast so that 
it -will have a nice shape when it 
comes on the table, and will retain ail 
the Juice of the beef. Leave the bones 
m the roast, as the meat will be far 
sweeter than when taken out. Rub 
the meat well with salt and pepper 
dredge slightly with lard and set Tn 
a hot oven. The heat of the oven at 
once coagulates the blood and pre- 
vents it from escaping, thus render- 
i"r.^ *^^ "l^^^ nutritious. Every now 
and then baste the beef with its own 
juices and let it cook, adding no water 
as sufficient fat runs from the beef 
to baste with. Allow fifteen minutes 
to every pound of meat if one likes 
the meat rare, otherwise allow twenty 
minutes. But the Creoles always roast 
beef rare. To ascertain the desired 
state occasionally stick a needle into 
the beef. If the blood spurts up, the 
meat is ready to serve, and, cooked 
to this point, is a most nutritious dish. 
\Vatch carefully and do not let it pass 
this stage. Serve on a dish in its own 
gravy. " 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



67 



FOet of Beef liarded 

FUet de Boeuf Piqu6 

1 Filet of Beef. 

Lard Sufficient to Lard Thorougrhly. 

1 Small Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 

4 Cloves, if Desired. 

1% Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Glace. (See Recipe.) 

1 Glass of Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Trim the filet nicely, removing the 
outer muscular skin. Lard the filet 
well, using larding needles. The lard 
must be very thin, like a shoestring. 
The larding is done by filling the 
needles with the lard and pushing 
them through the filet as far as they 
will go. If the needles are long 
enough they will come out on the 
other side of the filet, leaving the lard 
within. Repeat this process all down 
the center and along the sides of the 
filet, about an inch apart, and have 
the rows neat and even. If you have 
not a larding needle, make incisions 
with a knife, and push the lard in 
with your finger, but the filet is never 
as juicy and tender, nor does it look 
so clean and even when baked. When 
well larded, dredge well with salt and 
pepper, rubbing this thoroughly into 
the beef. Cut up one small onion, and 
one bay leaf, mash four cloves, and 
place in the bottom of the baking pan. 
Lay the larded filet on this bed, the 
larded side being uppermost. Put 
small bits of butter equal to a half 
tablespoonful on top, and bake in a 
quick oven thirty minutes. This dish 
Is always eaten rare. To ascertain If 
sufficiently done, stick a fork into the 
filet; if the blood bubbles out. it is 
read to serve. The meat when done 
Is always spongy and . elastic to the 
touch. 

In the meantime prepare the fol- 
lowing brown sauce: Take one table- 
spoonful of butter and one of Glac6 
(see recipe under chapter "Sauces for 
Meats, Fish, etc."). and three of 
water; rub smoothly and melt In a 
saucepan, stirring constantly to pre- 
vent burning. When brown add one 
cup of water. Season well with salt 
and pepper. Pour over the filet, which 
must be placed in a hot dish, and 
serve. 

Filet of Beef liarded With Mushrooms. 

Filet dv Boeuf Piqu6 aux Champignons 

1 Filet of Beef. % Can of Mushrooms. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Trim and lard the beef according 
to the directions given in the above 



recipe, and bake in the same manner 
— rare. When it has cooked for a 
half hour in a quick oven, it will be 
done. Then make a sauce as follows: 
Take one tablespoonful of butter and 
one of GlacS and three of water; melt 
the butter and add the 01ac6, brown- 
ing nicely without burning, and stir- 
ring constantly. WTien brown add 
one pint of water. Season well with 
salt and pepper. Then add a half 
can of mushrooms, chopped very fine. 
Stir well and let it boil about ten 
minutes, so as not to be too thick nor 
yet too thin. The intelligent cook 
will Judge by tasting to see that it is 
seasoned properly. Place the filet in 
a hot dish, pour the sauce over and 
serve hot. 



FUct of Beef With Truffles 

Filet de Boeuf Pigu6 aux Truffes ou d la 

Perigeuw 

1 Filet of Beef. % Can of Truffles. 

1 Pint of Broth or Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Proceed in the same manner as in 
the preparation of Filet of Beef 
Larded. When it has baked for a 
half hour make a sauce as follows: 
One tablespoonful of butter in a 
saucepan; add two tablespoonfuls of 
Glac6 (see recipe under chapter 
"Sauces for Meats, Fish, etc."), add 
one pint of broth or water. Let it 
boil slowly for ten minutes, and add 
one-half can of truflles, chopped very 
fine, if & la Perigeaux; if aux truffes. 
cut in dice. Let the sauce boil slowly 
twenty minutes longer, and then pour 
over the filet, serving hot. 



Broiled Beefsteak 

Filet de Boeuf GrUU 

3 Pounds of Steak for Broiling Pur- 
poses. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. The Juice 

of 1 Lemon. 
Chopped Parsley and Lettuce Leaves to 

Garnish. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

The cut known as the "Porterhouse 
Steak" is unquestionably the best for 
broiling. The next in order is the 
sirloin, where there are always choice 
cuts, but the entire sirloin Is not 
profitable for broiling and the coarse 
ends may be used in making stews, 
gumbos, etc. There is an art in broil- 
ing a beefsteak properly, and the 
Creoles have certainly attained thid 
in its perfection. Thp broiler In a 
well regulated household is always 






68 



THE PICAYUNE CREX>LE: COOK BOOK 



put on a furnace of hot charcoals In 
preference to the open front of the 
stove. The broiling: over the coals 
gives the meat a flavor one vainly 
seeks otherwise. Dredge the meat 
well with salt and pepper and then 
brush lightly with butter. Place it 
on the hot gridiron and let it broil 
quickly for four minutes: then turn 
on the other side for four minutes 
longer. When done take off, place in 
a hot dish, butter nicely and sprinkle 
with chopped parsley, and the juice 
of a lemon, and serve immediately. 

Smothered Beefsteak 

Filet nrais6 

Braising or smothering meat is a 
mode of cooking little understood by 
the Americans, but which has hev.n 
brought by the Creoles to a high state 
of perfection. By this process the 
meat is Just covered, and no more, 
with a little water, or with ji strong 
broth made from animal stock or the 
juices of vegetables. The pot is cov- 
ered with a closely fitting lid and is 
put on a slow fire and allowed to 
simmer slowly for two or three hours, 
just short of the boiling point By 
this slow process of cooking, tough 
meats are rendered juicy, tender and 
very agreeable to the. palate, while 
the covered pot enables the meat to 
retain all its flavor. 

The great secret in smothering meat 
is to let it cook very slowly, simmer- 
ing, however, all the time, so that 
the heat may thoroughly penetrate 
making tender and juicy the coarse 
fiber of the meat. When tender, put 
the beefsteak into a platter, cover 
with the onions and gravy, and you 
will have a delicious and delicately 
flavored dish. 

Beefsteak Smothered In Onions 

Filet Brai86 aux Oigmjfia 

3 Pounds of Round Steak. 
6 Onions, Sliced Fine. 1 Tablespoonful 

of Lard. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Vinepar. 

2 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Pint of Water. 
Pepper and Salt to Taste. 

Beat the Round Steak well with the 
rolling pin or steak hammer; cut off 
the outer skin and press the meat 
back into shape. Place the table- 
spoonful of lard in the deep frying 
pan and let It melt. Then lay In the 



sliced onions, and over these the beef- 
steak, which has been well seasoned 
with salt and pepper and dredered 
with the flour. Cover closely. Let 
it simmer over a hot fire for a few 
minutes and then turn the steak on 
the other side. After three minutes 
add two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 
chopped parsley, thyme and bay leaf 
and a clove of garlic. Turn the steak, 
letting the flour brown well, and keep 
the pot closely covered. When brown 
pour over it a cup of water or as 
much as will be sufficient to cover the 
meat. Bring this to a brisk boil and 
set the pot back where it can simmer 
gently for about two hours. 

Filets of beef may be smothered in 
the same manner, only these will re- 
quire no beating with the steak ham- 
mer. 

Filet of Beef Smothered With Mush- 
rooms or Iru tiles. 

FiUt de Docuf Braise aux Champignons, 

ou aux TraSca 

1 Filet of Beef. 

1 Can of Mushrooms or Vi Can of 

Truffles. 6 Onions, Sliced Fine. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

2 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Pint of Hot Water. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Smother the Beef, using a filet for 
this delicious dish, according to the 
recipe given for Smothered Beefsteak. 
After it has cooked about a half hour 
add one can of mushrooms and let 
it continue to simmer gently for an 
hour and a half longer. Put the filet 
in a dish, place the mushrooms over 
and around as a garnish, pour the 
sauce over it and serve at once. 

If truffles are used instead of the 
mushrooms, add one-half can and 
proceed in exactly the same manner 
as when using the mushrooms. 

Filet of Beef with Toniato€» 

Filet de Bocuf Brais6 aux Tomates 

1 Filet of Beef. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Lard. 
6 Onions, sliced fine. 1 Clove of 

Garlic. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

2 Sprites Kach of Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 
»^ Can of Tomatoes or 6 Large Fresh 

One.s. 

1 Pint of Hot Water. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Smother the fllet in exactly the same 
manner as already described. When 
cooked for about a half hour, add 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



69 



one-half can of tomatoes and their 
juice, or six large fresh tomatoes 
sliced in their Juice. Let the mixture 
simmer for an hour and a half longer, 
season well and serve, pouring the 
gravy over the filet. 

Filet of Beef with StulTcd Tomatoes 

Filet Brais6 aux Tomates Farcies 

1 Filet of Beef. 

1 Dozen Uniform-Sized Tomatoes. 

1 Cup of Mushrooms. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

% Cup of Stale Bread Crumbs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

Smother the filet according to the 
directions given above, adding two 
chopped tomatoes to the sauce. Cut 
the stem, ends from the tomatoes and 
scoop out the soft inside, being care- 
ful to retain the skins in proper shape. 
Then take a half cup of mushrooms, 
one-half cup of stale bread crumbs, 
which have been wet and squeezed, 
one clove of garlic, chopped very fine, 
and one grated onion, a sprig of 
chopped parsley. Chop the mush- 
rooms fine, put a full tablespoon of 
butter into a frying pan, and, when 
melted, add the bread crumbs, which 
have been seasoned 'with salt and pep- 
per and Cayenne, and -mixed thor- 
oughly with the chopped onion or gar- 
lic and the parsley. When these be- 
gin to fry add the chopped mush- 
rooms, stirring constantly for about 
five or eight minutes. Serve with 
Stuffed Tomatoes (see recipe). 

Beef k la Mode. 

Dauhe 

5 Pounds of the Rump or the Round of 

Beef. M Pound of Salt Fat. 

Large Onions. 2 Turnips. 5 Carrots. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

2 Bay Leaves. 
Siirig of Thyme and Parsley. 

Cut the fat of the salt meat into 
thin shreds. Chop the onion and bay 
leaf very fine, as also the garlic, 
thyme and cloves. Rub the shreds 
well with salt and pepper. Take the 
rump of beef and lard thickly by 
making incisions about three or four 
inches in length and inserting the 
pieces of salt . fat and spices, onion 
and thyme and garlic, mixed thor- 
oughly. Take two large onions and 
cut into quarters and put in a sauce- 
pan with one tablespoonful of lard. 
Let the slices brown and then lay on 
top the rump of beef, well larded. 



Cover closely and let it simmer very 
slowly till well browned. Then add 
the chopped bay leaf and parsley. 
When brown add five carrots cut into 
inch squares, two turnips, cut in the 
same manner, and two large onions, 
chopped fine. Let the whole brown 
keeping well covered and cooking 
slowly over a low but regular fire. 
Be always careful to keep the cover 
very tight on the pot. When it has 
simmered about ten minutes, turn the 
daube on the other side, cover closely 
and let it simmer ten minutes more. 
Then pour over it sufficient boiling 
water to cover the daube; or, better 
still, if you have it, use instead of the 
water, boiling **consomm6" or "pot- 
au-feu." Season according to taste 
with salt, Cayenne and black pepper. 
Cover the pot tight and set it back on 
the stove, letting it smother slowly for 
about three hours, until tender. Serve 
hot or cold. 



Cold Daube k la Cr^le 

Daulte Froide d la Creole 

3 Pounds of the Rump or Round of 

the Beef. 

2 Pounds of Veal Rump. 

2 Pig's Feet. M Pound of Salt Pat Meat. 

5 Large Onions. 2 Turnips. 
5 Carrots. 2 Cloves of Garlic 3 Bay 

Leaves. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

3 Sprigs of Thyme and Parsley. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Cut the salt meat into shreds, roll 
well in Cayenne and black pepper. 
Chop finely several sprigs of thyme 
and three bay leaves, one clove of 
garlic, three sprigs of parsley, and 
mash well three cloves and six all- 
spice. Roll the strips of salt meat, 
which must be about three inches in 
length and one-half inch thick, in this. 
Make incisions into the rump of meat 
and force in the strips of fat meat and 
the spices. " Then rub the whole well 
with salt and pepper. Judging accord- 
ing to taste and proceed to cook ac- 
cording to the recipe for Beef k la 
Mode. Let the Daube cook about four 
hours when you Intend to serve it 
cold. 

In the meantime, in another pot, 
place about two pounds of veal steak 
and two pig's feet. Season well 
with salt and pepper and Cay- 
enne, and cover well with four quarts 
of water, and let them boil. Add one 
bay leaf, oi\e sprig of thyme, one-half 
clove of garlic and one onion, all 



70 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



minced very fine, and two clovea 
mashed almost into a Jelly. Let these 
boll well with the veal and pig's feet. 
Then, when the veal and pig's feet are 
cooked very tender, take them out of 
the pot and mince the meat of each 
very fine; return to the sauce, and 
again season highly, according to 
taste, for the flavor depends upon the 
piquant seasoning. After the daube 
has cooked four or five hours, take 
it ofT the fire, pour over it the sauce 
and set all in a cool place. Serve the 
next day — cold, cutting into thin 
slices. It will all have formed a Jelly 
that is most delicious and appetizing. 

Beef Marin^. 

Bbeuf Marin6 

4 Pounds of Beef, from the Round or 

Shoulder. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Olive Oil. 

8 Bay Leaves. 1 Onion. 1 Lemon. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vinegar. 

Mace and Allspice. 

^ Teaspoonful Each Of Ground Cloves. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

The "brisket" of the beef is excel- 
lent for this, as also the "breast- 
plate." Mix the spices, salt and pep- 
per thoroughly and rub well into both 
sides of the beef. Chop the onions 
fine, and cover the meat with them. 
Then mix the oil and vinegar and the 
Juice of one lemon, and pour this over 
the meat. Set it in the ice box. or a 
cool place, and let it stand overnight. 
Then put it into the stewpan, and be 
careful to retain all the Juices of the 
spices. Set on the fire and let it sim- 
mer ten minutes, adding the bay 
leaves, chopped very fine. Then add 
a tablespoonful flour, rolled smoothly 
in a half teaspoonful of butter or lard, 
melted. Let this brown, and then 
half cover the meat with boiling 
water, using good Judgment. Cover 
closely and set on the oven, letting 
the beef cook two hours, and turning: . 
once, so that both sides may be well 
penetrated by the heat. Serve on a 
hot dish, pouring the gravy over. This 
is a very old-fashioned dish 

Fried Meat. 

La Viande Fritc 
Prying among the Creoles is done 
in several ways. The first and the 
method most generally adopted in 
households is to put a tablespoonful 
of lard or an ounce, as the quantity 
of meat to cook may seem to require, 
into a frying pan. When the lard 



has reached the boiling point lay in 
the meat and cook first on one side, 
then on the other, to a nice brcwn. 
The second method is that in use 
among the Creole chefs, restaurateurs 
and in the homes of the w^ealthier 
classes; the meat is completely im- 
mersed in the boiling lard as in fry- 
ing fish or doughnuts. The intense 
heat quickly closes up the pores of the 
meat, and a brown crust is formed; 
the heat of the lard should be such 
that a piece of bread dropped into it 
becomes brown instantly. The lard 
should never be smoking. This ruins 
the meat and gives a burnt flavor. As 
soon as it begins to smoke lower the 
fire, but still keep it at a gentle boil- 
ing point. The half-frying method 
mentioned above is, however, the one 
most generally in use, and if followed 
properly, excellent results are ob- 
tained; indeed, many Creole chefs pre- 
fer it. There is another method that 
is very frequently used, which imparts 
a fiavor similar to that of broiled meat 
This is to lay the meat in a thick- 
bottomed frying pan with a table- 
spoonful of butter. Brown the meat 
quickly first on one side and then on 
the other; lay in a hot platter and 
season as you would broiled meat. 

Fried Meat — No. 2 

Grilladet. 

The round of the meat is always 
selected for Grillades, and one steak 
will serve six persons. The steak is 
cut into pieces of about six or eight 
squares, and each piece is called a 
"grillade." Season well with salt and 
pepper, rubbing these into the meat 
thoroughly and letting it soak well 
into the fibers. Have ready a hot pan, 
place therein a tablespoonful of lard, 
and, when hot, a sliced onion 
and one clove of garlic, chopped very 
fine. Let this brown, and then add 
one chopped tomato. Place the Gril- 
lades in this, letting them soak thor- 
oughly. Cover with a tight cover, 
and set back, letting them fry slowly, 
so as to absorb all the lard and Juices. 
Serve on a hot dish, when brown, with 
garnishes of parsley. This is the 
recipe for making Grillades without 
gravy. Some also fry simply in the 
boiling lard, using only a half table- 
spoonful, and letting it soak and ab- 
sorb thoroughly after being well sea- 
soned. This is a matter of taste. 



rrSCE PICAYtJNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



71 



Grillades With Gravy. 

OrilladeB d la Sauce 

1 Round Steak. 

1 Tomato. 1 Large Onion. 

Salt and Pepper. 

Select a nice round steak and beat 
-well. Cut into Grillades of about four 
inches square and season highly with 
salt and pepper and Cayenne. Put a 
tablespoonful of lard into the frying 
pan, and when it heats, add a chopped 
onion, one clove of garlic; and as 
these brown, add one tablespoonful 
of flour, making a Brown Roux. (See 
recipe under chapter "Sauces for 
Meats, Fish, etc.") Then add two to- 
matoes, sliced, with their juices, and 
as this browns lay the grillades upon 
It. Cover closely, and as it browns on 
one side, turn on the other. Then 
add a half tablespoonful of vinegar 
and a cup of water. Stir well and 
set back on the stove and let it sim- 
mer slowly for about a half hour. 
This is very* nice served with hominy 
at breakfast, or with red or white 
beans and boiled rice at dinner. 

Again, the Grillades k la Sauce are 
made by frying the- grillades, after 
seasoning -well, in half a tablespoon- 
ful of boiling lard. The lard must 
always be boiling, so that the meat 
juices may at once coagulate. After 
they are browned nicely on both 
sides, take the grillades out of the 
frying pan and set in a hot dish over 
a pot of boiling water and cover. 
Put half a tablespoon of lard into the 
frying pan, stirring well to detach all 
pieces of meat that may have ad- 
hered. Then add a chopped onion 
and brown, and a tablespoonful of 
flour or Glac6 (see recipe under chap- 
ter "Sauces for Meats, Fish, etc.") 
and let this brown. Pour in a table- 
spoonful of vinegar and a cup of 
water, season well with salt, pepper 
and Cayenne, and let it boil till it 
reaches a nice consistency, which will 
be in about ten minutes. Pour over 
the .grillades, and serve. 

Grillades Breaded. 

Orilladea Pan6c8 

1 Round of Veal. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Beaten Egg. % Cup of Bread Crumbs. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne. 

The round of the veal Is always 
used for this. Cut the veal into 
squares of about four inches; season 
well with salt, pepper and Cayenne. 



Beat an egg well and take each gril- 
lade and soak well in the egg, and 
then roll in bread crumbs grated. 
Have ready a pan of boiling grease, 
sufficient for the grillades to swim in, 
frjjr to a nice brown and serve very 
hot 

lieft-Over Meat. 

Left-over meat may be utilized in 
many delightful ways, such as "Bou- 
lettes," ' "Boulards," "Croquettes," 
"Rissoles," "Meat Souffl6" and vari- 
ous forms of Hash. The following 
are the forms of preparation in use 
among the Creoles: 

Meat Balls. 

Boulcttcs 

1 Pound of Raw or Lef t-Over Meat. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. ' 1 Onion. 

The Juice of a Lemon 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Take one pound of steak from the 
upper round and mince and chop very 
fine. Add to it one tablespoonful of 
lemon juice, one onion (well grated), 
one tablespoonful of melted butter, 
and salt, black pepper and Cayenne, 
seasoning highly, and blend all thor- 
oughly. Form the meat into balls 
using about two tablespoonfuls for 
each, which will allow six or eight 
ba*lls or boulettes. Have ready a deep 
frying pan of lard, sufficient for the 
boulettes to swim, and fry to a nice 
brown. Take out and drain of all 
grease, place on a hot platter and 
garnish with fried parsley, and serve 
very hot. 

The same directions may be used in 
making croquettes of meat, only the 
latter are formed into cylindrical 
shapes. If fried in butter, the bou- 
lettes, or croquettes, are very deli- 
cious, but they are nice either way if 
well seasoned, for their success de- 
pends upon this. 

Meat Balls — "So. 2 

Boulards 

Several Slices of Meat. tRaw or Cold 

Cooked.) 

1 Tomato. 1 Onion. 1 Carrot. 

3 Hard-Bolled Eggs. 

1 Stalk of Celery. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1' Sprig of Thyme. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

^ Cup of Cracker Crumbs. A Pinch 

of Ginger. 

% Cup of Water. 

S^lt and Pepper to Taste, 

Select slices of beef cut very thin 

from the round of the cross rib. Take 

one tomato, on© onion, one carrot, a 



72 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



stalk of celery, several sprlgrs of pars- 
ley, one bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, 
three hard-boiled eggs, and chop very 
fine. Mix this with one tablespoonful 
of butter, a half cup of cracker 
crumbs and a pinch of ginger. Salt 
and pepper to taste. Take each slice 
of meat, and make a roll of It, folding 
the dressing within and folding over 
the edges that it may be retained. Tie 
each with thin twine. Have boiling 
lard or suet on the fire, drop in the 
boulards rolled in bread crumbs, set 
them back on the stove, cover well, 
and let them simmer gently for about 
two hours, adding a half cup of water 
to prevent scorching. Keep the pot 
covered. After two hours, drain the 
boulards well by laying them on 
heated brown paper; place them in a 
hot dish, garnish it with sliced hard- 
boiled eggs, parsley and olives, and 
serve. Each boulard should be about 
the size of an egg. 

Left-Over Meat. 

RiaaolcB 

4 Ounces of Cold Roast Beef or Veal, 

or Left-Over Meat of any Kind. 

2 Ounces of Stale Bread, Wet and 

Squeezed Thoroughly. 

% Teaspoonful of Minced Parsley. 

Vi Ounce of Flour. 

IH Tablespoonfuls of Milk or Water. 

% Teaspoonful Each of Salt and 

Black Pepper. A Dash of Cayenne. 

1 Bay Leaf, Chopped Fine with Sprigs 

of Parsley and Thyme. 

Mince the meat finely and season 
well. Mix the ingredients thoroughly 
with it, adding, if you have it, minced 
Chaurice or sausage meat, or a little 
cold ham minced. Form it into balls, 
using two tablespoonfuls for each ball. 
Brush lightly with milk, toss in a lit- 
tle flour, pat to get off all superfluous 
flour, and brown nicely in boiling lard. 
Drain off all lard and serve on a plat- 
ter, garnished with parsley sprigs. 

Meat Sonffl^. 

SouffU de Doeuf 

1 Cup of Cold Meat. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 1 Cup of 

Cold Milk. 2 Eggs. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Put two level tablespoons of butter 
into a frying pan, and when it is hot 
add two tablespoonfuls of flour, rub- 
bing smoothly and letting it brown. 
Then add gradually one cup of cold 
milk. Stir this until it boils. Add 
one-half teaspoonful of salt; a little 
pepper and one cupful of chopped 



meat, or fowl, that has been left o\'eT, 
When this comes to a boil, add tbe 
yolks of two beaten eggs. Let it cook 
a moment longer and set to cool. 
Then beat the whites of the eggs. a.iid 
when the meat mixture is cold, fold 
them in carefully. Turn this into a 
buttered dish and bake in a moder- 
ate oven twenty minutes. Serve as 
soon as removed from the fire. A 
little grated nutmeg is a great addi- 
tion. 

Beefsteak Pie. 

VoUaU'Vent de Boeuf 

1 Quart of Cold Cooked Meat. 

2 Slices of Breakfast Bacon. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. V^ Dozen 

Potatoes. 

Thyme, Bay Leaf and Parsley. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Make a nice pie crust. (See Plain 
Paste.) Line a baking pan with this, 
and bake in the oven. Cut the meat 
very fine, into dice, and season well, 
rubbing with the minced thyme, pars- 
ley, bay leaf and salt and pepper. Stew 
the meat as in Ragout de Veau & la 
Bourgeoise. Place in the pan. Dot 
the top -with bits of butter, and place 
over all a layer of pie crust, decorat- 
ing the edge nicely. Bake to a nice 
brown. Serve in the dish in which it 
was cooked, with any left-over sauce 
spread over the slices. 

Potted Beef. 

Terrinc de Doeuf 

2 Rounds of Beef. 
1 Slice of Suet (Une Graisse de Boeuf). 

% can Mushrooms. 
4 Yolks of Eggs. 1 Dozen Allspice. 4 

Cloves. 
Salt, Pepper and Cayenne. 
1 Glass of Water. 

Chop the slices of beef very fine 
with the suet, and season with the 
mashed spices, the herbs, minced very 
fine, and mix thoroughly w^ith the 
beaten yolks of the eggs. Pour over 
all the water and mix. Line the bot- 
tom of the baking pan with strips of 
lean bacon and dot the beef on tor 
with bits of butter. Bake for two houre 
in a quick oven. 

Hash. 

Hachi$ 

1 Quart of Cold Meat. 1 Onion. 

1 Pint of Chopped Potatoes (Uncooked). 

2 Hard-Bolled Eggs. % of a Clove 

of Garlic. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter or Lai:d. 
Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Take the remains of cold roast, stew. 
boulUi, steaks or fowl and mince very 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



73 



fine. To every quart of meat allow 
one onion, a quarter of a clove of 
crarlic, chopped fine, and one pint of 
chopped (uncooked) potatoes, and 
two hard-boiled eggs^ chopped fine 
Mix all this with the minced meat, 
add salt, pepper and Cayenne to taste; 
put into a stewpan with a tablespoon- 
ful of butter or lard, and let it sim- 
mer gently. After ten minutes add 
a half pint of hot water. Let it cook 
ten minutes longer and serve. Tho 
egg may be omitted. 



Dry or Baked Hash 

Hachig Sec 

1 Pint of Chopped Meat. Left-Over. 
H Pint of Water, or Left-Over Broth. 
1 Pint of Cooked Chopped Tomatoes, 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 
1 Large Onion. 1 Clove of Garlic. 1 

Bay Leaf. 
1 Sprig of Parsley. 

Chop and mince the meat very flne. 
Chop the potatoes flne, or in square- 
inch pieces. Mince the parsley, bay 
leaf, onion and garlic flne; mix all to- 
gether with the meat and potatoes 
and season highly with pepper and 
Cayenne, salting to taste. Add the 
tablespoonful of butter and bake in 
a moderate oven for about one hour. 



Hash on Toast. 

HachU 9ur Canap^ 

1 Quart of Cold Meat. 

1 Pint of Boiling Water or Milk. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Cut the left-over roast, bouilli or 
steak into small squares. To each 
pint of these little squares allow one 
tablespoonful of butter, one table- 
spoonful of flour and a half pint of 
boiling water. . Put the butter into a 
frying pan, and as it melts add the 
flour, being careful not to let it burn. 
When browned add the water, or, 
preferably, milk, and stir until it be- 
gins to boiL Then add the hashed 
and seasoned meat, and season again 
to taste. Set the hash on a moderate 
Are and let it simmer for flfteen min- 
utes. 

In the meantime, toast slices of 
bread and butter them. Set chem in a 
hot dish, spread each slice with the 
hash very thickly and pour the sauce 
over and serve. The hash may be 
baked and spread on the toast and 
served with a sauce a I'Espagnole. 
(See recipe.) 



Com Beef. 

Boeuf au Mi-8cl 

3 Pounds of Corned Beef. 

2 Carrots. 2 Turnips. 1 Stalk of Celery. 

2 Onions. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

The best cut for this is the lower 
round of the beef, which is perfectly 
free from bone. Put the corn beef 
on to boil in a large pot of cold water. 
The pot should be well covered. When 
it begins boiling well, set it back to 
cook gently, and allow twenty-flve 
minutes to each pound of beef. When 
within two hours of being cooked, add 
carrots, two turnips, a stalk of celery, 
two onions, one clove of garlic, 
chopped flne, and let the«te boil with 
the beef. Serve with the vegetables 
ranged whole around the dish. Corn 
beef Is also served with cabbage, but 
never boil the cabbage in the beef as 
both will become indigestible. It 
should be as tender as spring chick- 
en when done. 



Com Beef Hash. 

HachiB de Boeuf au Mi-Sel 

1 Pint of Corn Beef, Cooked, and 1 

Pint of Left-Over Potatoes. 
1 Grated Onion. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 

1 Cup of Broth or Water. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of Parsley. 

Skit, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Mix the meat thoroughly after 
mincing flne together with the 
chopped potatoes. Grate the onion 
and a half clove of garlic if desired, 
and chop the herbs flne and mix thor- 
oughly with the beef, seasoning high- 
ly. Put the butter Into the frying 
pan, add the meat and the broth or 
water and stir constantly till it boils. 
After it has cooked for about twenty 
minutes, put it on slices of buttered 
toast. Pour on it the gravy and gar- 
nish with sprigs of parsley and sliced 
lemon. 

Breaded Ox Tails. 

Queues de Bocuf Pandct 

2 Ox Tails. 

1 Cup of Grated Bread Crumbs. 

3 Sprigs of Chopped Parsley. 

3 Sprigs of Thyme. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Egg. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Wash the tails and break 'Mem at 
the Joints: then cut again, into pieces 
of about four inches in length. Have 
a pot of boiling water; season this 
well with chopped parsley, thyme, bay 
leaf and salt and pepper and Cayenne 



74 



THC PICAITUNE: OREOLiE COOK BOOK 



to taste. Boil the ox tails till tender; 
when done remove from the fire and 
let them cool in the water in which 
they were boiled. Beat an e^g well, 
roll the bits of tail in the egg and then 
roll m grated bread crumbs. Drop 
into a pot of boiling grease and fry 
to a golden brown. Take out and 
drain and serve with a Sauce k la 
Tartare, Ravigotte, Tomato or any 
sauce. (See recipe.) 



Ox Tails k la Bourgeoise. 

Queues de Boeuf d la Bourgeoiae 

2 Ox Tails. 

2 Onions. 2 Carrots. 1 Turnip. 
% Can of Green Peas. 
^ Inch o/ Ham. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 

2 Sprigs of Thyme. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Pint of Consomme or Boiling Water. 

1 Glass of Water. 

Cut the ox tails into pieces of three 
or four inches in length. Chop two 
onions fine, and put the whole into a 
saucepan with a tablespoonful of but- 
ter. Let them brown a little and add 
two large carrots, cut into dice, and 
one turnip cut the same way. Brown 
these with the ox tails. Add one-half 
inch of ham, well chopped, and let 
it brown, and then add two sprigs of 
thyme and one bay leaf and one clove 
of garlic, chopped very fine. Let these 
ingredients all brown about two min- 
utes over a hot fire. Then add one 
glass of water. Let all brown two 
minutes longer, and add one pint of 
consomm6 or boiling water. Season 
again to taste, and add a half can of 
green peas. Let all boil until the ox 
tails are tender to the touch, and 
serve hot. 

Broiled Kidneya 

Broch€tt€8 de Rognong 

3 Kidneys. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter.. 

Lemon Juice. 

Chopped Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

The kidneys must, first of all, be 
perfectly fresh. Wash them well and 
slice them; cut into thin pieces of 
about three inches long and two inches 
wide. Run a wooden or silver skewer 
through to hold them together, and 
season well with salt and pepper. 
Brush with a little butter, and put on 
a double broiler and brofl for about 
five minutes, turning over the broiler 
to allow each side to cook. Place on 
a platter and pour over all melted but- 



ter, chopped parsljey and lemon juic«, 
and serve hot, as you would broiled 
steak. 

Stewed Kidneys. 

Rognona SauHa d to CrSole 

3 Kidneys. IH Cups of Water. 
^ Spoon of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
1 Sprig Each of Chopped Parsley, 
Thyme and Bay Leaf, Very Fine. 

Select perfectly fresh kidneys: -virafih 
them well, and then slice very tliin. 
Season well with salt and pepper. I*ut 
one and a half tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter into the saucepan; when n^elted 
and very hot add the kidneys SLnd 
chopped herbs, being very careful to 
stir constantly and very fast, to pre- 
vent burning. Add one and one-li&lf 
cup of water or consommS. Let it 
boil up once, and the kidneys stre 
ready to be served. Kidneys are like 
eggs — they do not need much cook- 
ing, for the more they are cooked 
the harder they become. Five min- 
utes should be sufllcient to cook them 
well, and at no time should they be 
allowed to boil. 



Broiled Liver. 

Brocket tea de Foie 

1 Pound of Beef's Liver. 

Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 

Wash and slice the liver into thin 
pieces of about three inches in length 
and one-quarter inch in thickness. 
Season well with salt and pepper, 
brush lightly with butter, and stringr 
on skewers with alternate slices of 
bacon. Broii as you would a tender- 
loin steak for about five minutes in a 
double broiler and serve with a sauce 
of melted butter and chopped parsley. 

Fried Liver k la Lyonnalse. 

Foie SauKea d la Lyonnaiae 

1 Pound of Beef Liver. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Large Onions. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Slice the onions nicely. Put one 
tablespoonful of butter into the frying 
pan and add the onions. When brown, 
take the liver which you have cut into 
slices of about three inches in length 
and one-half inch in thickness, and 
season well with salt and pepper, and 
lay it over the onions. Stir well. 
Cover and let it fry for about three 



THE PICATUNE CREOLE CXX>K BOOK 



75 



minutes, and then turn over and let 
It cook three minutes more. Pour 
on It a teaspoonful of vlnegrar and 
afirain season to taste. Let it simmer 
three or four minutes longer and serve 
hot. Liver does not take very long to 
cook. 

J^led Tongnie. 

Langue de Boeuf en OeUc. 

1 Beef Tongue. 2 Calf's Peet. 

4 Pints of Strong Consomm6. 

Spices. 

Parboil the tongue and calf's feet. 
Then skin and clean the tongue well, 
and take the bones out of the calf's 
feet. Mince two onions very fine, and 
fry them in a tablespoonful of butter. 
Let them brown, and lay on these the 
well-seasoned tongue and calf's feet. 
Let them simmer ten minutes, and 
then add one and one-half pints of 
consomm4. Let smother, keeping well 
well covered, for an hour and a half. 
Then take the tongue out, and let the 
calf's feet cook and reduce a half hour 
longer. After this add the tongue for 
two minutes longer. Put all into a 
bowl or dish, and let it cool. You will 
have a delicious Jelly. 



Smothered Tongue. 

Langue de Boeuf Bra4a€e 

1 Fresh Tongue of Beef. 

1% Pints of Liquor in Which the 

Tongue Was Boiled. 

2 Onions, Minced Very Fine. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 2 Cloves. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Parboil the tongue for about ten 
minutes. Then skin and clean well. 
Chop an onion very fine, and brown 
this in a tablespoonful of butter. 
When brown, add the tongue, which 
you will have arranged by fastening 
the thick part to the tip with a skew- 
er, as for roast beef. Let it cook, 
smothering slowly, for fifteen minutes, 
and then add another onion sliced 
nicely. Let this brown, and add one 
square inch of ham, well chopped, 
' two carrots sliced, and a bay leaf, and 
two sprigs of thyme, minced fine. 
Brown again, and add a pint of broth. 
Season well, and let it smother for 
one hour and a half longer, turning, 
every quarter, so that every part may 
cook thoroughly. Serve with the 
sauce in which it was cooked, or with 
a Sauce Piquante. (See recipe.) 



CHAPTER Xin 



VEAL 




Du Veau 



The loin, filet, shoulder and breast 
of the veal are used for roasting. 
Chops are cut from the loin, and the 
leg is used for filets and cutlets. The 
filet of veal is quite different from the 
filet of beef, and does not, in any 
manner, correspond to the latter, 
being a solid piece cut from the legs 
of the young calf. The knuckle is 
the lower part of the leg after the 
cutlets are taken off, and, with the 
neck, is used extensively for making 
stews, soups and veal pies. Indeed, 
as far as stews are concerned, the 
Creoles never make a "beef stew" or 
very rarely, the meat of beef being 
considered too tough. Never buy veal 
that is very young, for young meats, 



as a rule, are not nutritous; but the 
cuts of older veal when properly 
cooked, as the Creoles know how, will 
surely never be unwholesome or in- 
digestible. A calf should never be 
killed until it i^ at least two months 
old, and then the meat has a pinkish 
tinge, and is firm and the bones are 
hard. Calf that has been killed too 
young may be known by the bluish 
tinge and the soft, flabby flesh, and 
small, tender bones. 

The Creole cooks always pound the 
veal almost to a pulp. This renders 
it very tender and digestible. Veal 
must always be well cooked, and 
cooked very slowly, else it will be 
hard, tough and unfit for food. 



76 



THE PICAYUNE CIUQOIiE COOK BOOK 



Roast liohi of Veal. 

Longe de Veau Rdtie 

4 Pounds of Veal. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter or Lard. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Sprigrs of Parsley and Sliced Lemon to 

OarniBh. 

Trim off the veal very carefully the 
heavier portion of the fat, leaving 
enoufi:h, however, to render It sweet 
and juicy. If freshly cut. and not 
handled too much by the butcher, 
merely wipe the loin with a damp 
towel. Then dredge It thickly with 
salt and pepper, and separate the 
articulations or Joints, that the meat 
may cook thoroughly. Rub well with 
a tablespoonful of butter or lard, and 
place In a very quick oven for about 
fifteen minutes. Then decrease the 
heat somewhat and cover the veal 
with a piece of brown buttered 
paper and let it cook slowly, allowing 
at least twenty minutes to each pound 
of veal. Keep the oven at a steady, 
regular heat. About twenty minutes 
before serving take off the buttered 
paper and let the roast brown nicely. 
Increasing the fire a little. Take 
out, place on a hot dish, garnish 
nicely with sprigs of parsley and 
sliced lemon. Serve with its own 
gravy. The practice of making a 
gravy with flour for roast beef and 
roast veal cannot be too severely con- 
demned. Meat is always best when 
served in its own Juice, if roasted or 
broiled. 

Roast Veal with Fine Herbs. 

Varr6 de Veau R6ti aux Finca Ilcrhea 

A 4-Pound Filet of Veal. 

1 Cup of Broth or Water. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Onion. 3 Bay Leaves. 

2 Sprigs of Sweet Marjoram. 

3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

3 Sprigs of Thyme. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

yjt Teaspoon ful Each of Ground Cloves, 

Mace and Allspice. 

Have the butcher cut the filet of 
veal square, wipe "with a damp towel 
and then take one tablespoonful of 
lard and dredge the roast nicely. 
Season well with salt and Cayenne; 
mince the onion, bay leaf, marjoram, 
parsley and thyme, and mix these 
with the ground spices; add the Juice 
cf a lemon, and pour all over the 
meat. Place in a quick oven for about 
fifteen minutes. After this, lessen the 
heat, place on top of the veal a but- 
tered piece of brown paper, and let it 
roast slowly, allowing twenty minutes 



for each pound of veal. When almost 
done take off the paper and let the 
roast brown nicely for twenty minutes 
longer. Then take the roast out of 
the gravy and place in a hot disli in 
the oven. Now stir the gravy iwelU 
mixing all the herbs that have run 
out of the beef. Add one cup of broth 
or water and the Juice of one lemon, 
and mix this thoroughly. Grate 
some bread crumbs, beat well in one 
egg, and pour this over the veal, let 
it brown nicely and serve with tbe 
sauce. 

FUet of Veal with Mushrooms or 

lYuffles. 

Filet de Veau aux Champ^nons ou aum 

Truffee 

1 Pllet of Veal. 

V& Can of Mushrooms or Truffles. 

1 Small Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 

4 Cloves (if desired). 

1 Tablespoonful of Glac4 (see recipe) 

1 GlaiBs of Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for Filet of Beef Larded, with 
Mushrooms or Truflles, only do not 
lard the veal. Allow the veal to cook 
much longer, for it must be well done, 
twenty minutes to the pound being a 
good guide always in roasting veal. 
(See recipe for Filet of Beef Larded 
with Mushrooms or Truffles.) 

Stuff<Hl Roast Shoulder or Breast of 

VeaL 

Epaule ou PoitHne de Veau Farcie 

1 Shoulder of Veal. ^ Pound of Ham. 

1 Herb Bouquet. 
1 Hard-Bolrled Egg. 1 Tablespoonful 
of Butter. 1 Spoon of Flour. 

(If the shoulder of veal is used, have 
the butcher remove the bone.) 

When ready to cook, wipe well with 
a damp towel, and then dredge with 
salt and pepper, seasoning highly. 
Make a dressing by taking one cup of 
stale bread, wet and squeezed, one- 
quarter pound of sliced ham. or salt 
pork, preferably the ham, and chop 
very fine. Mix this with the bread 
and season highly with hot pepper, 
according to taste; 1 carrot, 1 onion, 
1 bay leaf, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 sprig 
of thyme, 1 of parsley, all minced 
very fine. Add one tablespoonful of 
butter, and place In a frying pan; let 
it fry for about ten minutes and then 
add one cup of water and cook five 
minutes. Then stuff the shoulder well 
and skewer the filet to prevent the 
dressing from falling out in cooking. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIJC COOK BOOK 



77 



It is well to tie the veal at either end 
with a piece of twine. Take one table- 
spoonful of lard and dredgre roast ac- 
cording: to preceding recipes. 

If the breast of the veal is used, 
make long gashes between the ribs 
and fill with a dressing prepared as 
above; place in the baking pan and 
roast slowly, according to directions. 
When finished cooking, remove the 
shoulder or breast, and stir the gravy 
well, adding a cup of broth or water 
and the Juice of one lemon and a tea- 
spoonful of butter, seasoning to taste. 
Serve with the roast. Some like the 
addition of a teaspoonful of prepared 
mustard, but that is a matter of taste. 

Veal Cutlets Breaded. 

C6t€lettca de Veau Paniea 

6 Veal Cutlets. 

1 Egg' 1 Cup of Bread Crumbs. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Liemon and Parsley to Garnish. 

Sauce a la Maitre d'HOtel. 

Have the cutlets cut thin. Season 
well with salt and pepper. Beat an 
egg well and roll the cutlets in the 
t*ggf then roll in bread crumbs. Drop 
in boiling lard and fry to a nice golden 
brown. Take out, drain off the lard, 
place on a heated dish and serve with 
garnish of parsley and sliced lemon 
and a Sauce d. la Maitre d'Hotel. (See 
recipe.) The addition of a little lemon 
Juice ^ds to the fiavor when eating 
the cutlets. 



Veal Cutlets en Paplllotes. 

C^telcttea de Veau en PapUoteM 

6 Veal Cutlets. 
A Half-Pound of Pork Sausage Meat. 
14 Can of Mushrooms. 1 Tablespoonful 

Butter. 

1 Clove Garlic. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Use for this young and tender veal 
cutlets, cut very fine. Pry the chops, 
after seasoning well in butter, very 
slowly, and, when cooked, take out 
of the frying pan and put in a dish. 
Put a tablespoonful of butter into a 
deep frying pan. Add a half pound 
of sausage meat and a half can of 
mushrooms, chopped very fine. Mix 
well, and season with salt and pep- 
per. Add a minced clove of garlic, and 
let it all cook five minutes. Take 
pieces of white foolscap paper, cut 
them in cone or pyramidal shapes of 
the size of the cutlets, fold the edges 
very nicely, doubling the paper to form 
a half diamond or cone. Then oil the 



paper well with sweet oil. Take the 
stufiUng of sausage 'meat and put a 
layer on one side of the fold of each 
cone. Lay the chop diagonally across 
this, so that the end reaches the tip 
of the cone, and spread over this 
another layer of the stuffing. Fold 
the paper over neatly around the edges 
and then oil well again on the outside. 
Bake in an oven or lay. on top of a 
gridiron and broil until brown. This 
will be in about five minutes. They 
will need no gravy, the oil having 
slightly permeated, and the chops be- 
ing kept delicate and juicy by the 
dressing. Serve hot in the papers or 
papillotes, the guests removing them 
at the table. This is a very dainty 
way of serving veal cutlets, and the 
only way of serving them in papillotes. 

Veal Cutlets Breoded and Broiled. 

CCtclettcB dc Veau Pangea et OrilUes 

6 Veal Cutlets. 1 Egg. 

1 Cup of Bread Crumbs. 

Parsley Sprigs. 

Melted Butter or Sauce k la Ravlgotte. 

Have the cutlets as thin as possible. 
Season highly, after beating with 
the rolling-pin, and roll in a weil- 
beaten egg and then in bread crumbs.* 
Pat lightly with the hands and brush 
with melted butter. Place on a double 
broiler and broil on a very slow fire 
till no blood exudes. Serve with drawn 
butter sauce poured over or a Sauce 
k la Ravigotte. (See recipe.) Gar- 
nish the dish nicely 'with parsley 
sprigs. > 

CuUets of Veal k la Milanaise. 

Cdtelettes de Veau d la MUanaiae 

6 Veal Cutlets. 1 Egg. 

1 Cup of Bread Crumbs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 

A Bed of Macaroni or Spaghetti. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Prepare as above, and serve the 
cutlets on a bed of boiled macaroni 
or spaghetti and pour over the whole 
a Tomato Sauce. 



Veal Cutlets Smothered k la Cr6ole 

Cdteleites de Veau ttouff€ea ou 
Braiaia d la Cr6olc 

6 Veal Cutlets. 
6 Onions, Sliced Fine. 1 Tablespoonful 

of Lard. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Vinegar. 

Pepper and Salt to Taste. 

Cut off the outer skin of the cutlets, 
and season well with salt and pepper. 



78 



TH£ PICAYUITE CREOIjE COOK BOOK 



Dredge with flour. Place the table - 
spoonful of lard in a deep frying pc^n 
and let it melt. Then lay in the sliced 
onions, and over these lay the cut- 
lets. Cover closely. Let them simmer 
over a hot Are for a few minutes, 
and then turn the cutlets on the other 
side. After three minutes, add two 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar, chopped 
parsley, thyme and bay leaf and a 
clove of garlic. Turn the veal, letting 
the flour brown well, and keep the pot 
closely covered. When brown, pour 
over all one cup of water, or a pint, 
which will be enough to cover the 
meat. Bring this to a brisk boil and 
set the pot back where it can simmer 
gently for about two hours. Serve 
with a nice garnish of parsley or rad- 
ishes. ^ 

Veal Daube k la Creole. 

Dauhe Fraide d la Creole 

4 Pounds of Veal 'Riimn. 

2 Pig's Feet. ^ Pound of Salt Fat Meat. 

5 JLarge Onions. 

2 Turnips. 

6 Carrots. 2 Cloves of Garlic. 3 Bay 

Leaves. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

3 Sprigs of Thyme and Parsley. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Cut the salt meat into shreds, roll 
well in Cayenne and black pepper. 
Chop finely several sprigs of thyme 
and three bay leaves, one clove of 
gallic, three sprigs of parsley, and 
mash well three cloves and six all- 
spice. Roll the strips of salt meat, 
which must be about three inches in 
length and one-half inch thick, in 
this. Make incisions into the rump of 
meat and force in the strips of fat 
meat and the spices. Then rub the 
whole well with salt and pepper, 
Judging according to taste, and pro- 
ceed to cook according to the recipe 
for Beef ft, la Mode. (See recipe Beef 
ft. la Mode.) Let the daube cook about 
four hours when you intend to serve 
it cold. 

In the meantime, in another pot, 
place a two pound veal steak and 
two or three pig's feet. Season well 
with salt and pepper and Cay- 
enne, cover well with four quarts of 
water, and let it all boil. Add one 
bay leaf, one sprig of thyme, one-half 
clove of garlic and one onion, all 
minced very fine, and two cloves 
mashed Into almost a jelly. Let these 
boll well with the veal and pig's feet. 
Then, when the veal and pig's feet 
are cooked very tender, take them 



out of the pot and mince the meat 
of each very fine; return to the sauce, 
and again season highly, according: to 
taste, for the flavor depends upon the 
piquant seasoning. After the daube 
has cooked four or Ave hours, take 
off the stove, pour over it the sauce 
and set all in a cool place. Serve the 
next day — cold, cutting Into thin 
slices. It will all have formed a jelly 
that is most delicious and appetizing. 
If the flank is used, have it boned 
by the butcher, removing the little 
flat bones and all the gristle. In this 
case, trim it evenly and make a force- 
meat of sausage, 1 cup, grated fine; 
bread crumbs, 1 cup. wet and 
squeezed; 1 clove of garlic or 1 grrated 
onion, all minced very fine; 1 hard- 
boiled egg, 1 sprig of thyme and bay 
le^f. minced flne. Mix all thoroughly 
with the sausage meat and the bread; 
fry in a tablespoonful of butter for 
about flve minutes; stuff the flank of 
veal, and then proceed in exactly the 
same manner as above indicated. 



Fricandeau of VeaL 

Fricandeau de Veau 

A Rump of Veal of 2 Pounds Weight. 

1 Pint of Broth. 

2 Onions. 2 'Carrots. 

^ Dozen Slices of Bacon. 

^ Can of Green Peas or Mushrooms. 

Thyme, Parsley, Bay Leaf. 

For this take one whole piece of 
the rump of the veal, cut about two 
inches in thickness, and about the size 
of a large saucepan or frying pan in 
length and width. Lard the beef well 
with larding needles, and rub well 
with salt and pepper. Then slice two 
onions, two carrots, two sprigs of 
thyme and two bay leaves, and a halt 
dozen slices of thlnly-sllced fat bacon, 
two Inches long and about the thick- 
ness of a dollar. Place the bacon in 
Etrlps in the bottom of the saucepan, 
and lay over this a layer of the sliced 
carrots and onions. Put about a dozen 
little dots of lard over this at inter- 
vals, and sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per. Lay the veal on top of this, and 
then cover up with a layer of the 
sliced onions and carrots, and lay 
strips of bacon on top. Cut a piece of 
paper the size of the sauce pan, and 
cover It up. Place In a warm oven, and 
let It bake three-quarters of an hour 
very slowly. Watch It carefully. When 
done, take out the meat and place it 
in a dish. Take the sauce and let it 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



79 



boll with the vegetables a moment. 
Then add one pint of broth or water, 
and let it cook well. Strain after it 
boils fifteen minutes. It will have be- 
come a very fine gravy. Add, if de- 
sired, a half can of mushrooms, or 
a half can of green peas, and let it 
boll for ten minutes longer. Then add 
the Prlcandeau of Veal and let it 
warm well for about ten minutes and 
it is ready for the table. This is a 
most excellent family dish. 

Stewed Veal. 

RagoUt de Viau d la Bourgeoise 

3 Pounds of Brisket of Veal. 2 Large 

Onions. 
2 Carrots. 2 Pints of Boiling Water. 
% Can of Tomatoes. 1 Tablespoonful 

Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme and Sweet 

Marjoram. 
Salt and Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

The brisket of the veal or the neck 
is best for stews, preferably the bris- 
ket. Cut it into pieces of about 1% 
inches square, put a tablespoonful of 
lard in the stew pot, and when hot 
throw in the veal, which has been well 
seasoned with salt and black pepper. 
Let it brown, and then add the onions 
and carrots, which have been chopped 
fine, and one clove of garlic, minced 
very fine. Let this brown, and then 
add one tablespoonful of flour, sifted 
well, and let this brown nicely; add 
two pints of boiling water and one 
can of tomatoes and a bay leaf, 
chopped very fine, and salt and pep- 
per again to taste, adding, if desired, 
a dash of Cayenne. Many of the Cre- 
oles add a teaspoonful of vinegar. Set 
the stew back on the stove and cover 
closely. Let it simmer slowly for an 
hour and a half, or until the meat is 
perfectly tender. Then serve hot. 

Stewed Veal With Potatoes. 

Ragodt de Veau aux Pomtnca de Terre 

1 Brisket or Knuckle of Veal. 

2 Small Potatoes. 2 Large Onions. 

2 Carrots. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme, Parsley and 

Sweet Marjoram. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Proceed in the same manner as for 
Hagout de Veau fi. la Bourgeoise. Just 
before adding the water add the pota- 



toes, which have been peeled and cut 
into quarters or halves, according to 
size. Add the boiling water after they 
are in the stew about ten minutes, and 
set back, allowing It to simmer for an 
hour and a half, or until very tender. 



Stewed Veal With Mushrooms^ 

Ragout de Veau auw Champign<yns 

3 Pounds of Brisket of Veal. 2 Large 

Onions. 
2 Carrots. 2 Pints of Boiling Water. 
1 Can of Mushrooms. 1 Tablespoonful 

Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme and Sweet 

Marjoram. 

Salt and Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

The brisket of the veal or the neck 
is best for stews, preferably the bris- 
ket. Cut it into pieces of about 1% 
inches square, put a tablespoonful of 
lard in the stewpot, and, when hot, 
throw in the veal, w^hich has been 
well seasoned with salt and black pep- 
per. Let it brown, and then add the 
onions and carrots, which have been 
chopped fine, and one clove of garlic, 
minced very fine. Let this brown, and 
then add one tablespoonful of f^our, 
sifted well. When this browns nicely 
add two pints of boiling water and one 
can of mushrooms whole, and a bay 
leaf, chopped very fine, and salt and 
pepper again to taste, adding, if de- 
sired, a dash of Cayenne. Set the 
stew on a slow fire and cover closely. 
Let it simmer slowly for an hour and 
a half, or until the meat is perfectly 
tender. Then serve hot. This is a \ 
very delightful dish. 



Cream of Veal. 

Crdme de Veau 

3 Cups of Chopped Veal. 1 Cup of 

Chopped Ham. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

% Cup of Cream Sauce. 

Utilize in this the left-over filet of 
veal. Chop very fine and add one cup 
of minced ham. Prepare a Cream 
Sauce (see recipe under "Sauces for 
Meats, Fish, etc.") in the proportions 
to make Just a half cup. Season the 
chopped veal with this, add a dash 
of Cayenne and grated nutmeg, spread 
upon hot buttered toast, and serve at 
breakfast. Chicken and mutton may 
be prepared in the same way. 



80 



THE PICAYUNE CREX>IiE COOK BOOK 



Veal en Ratatoullle. 

RatatouiUc dc Veau d la Creole 

4 Pounds o£ Brisket of Veal. V4 Pound 

of Ham. 

2 Cloves of Garlic. 

Vi Can of Tomatoes, or 6 Fresh. 

4 Dozen Fresh Okra. 2 Largre Onions. 

2 Sweet Potatoes. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 2 Sprigrs of Parsley. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne. 

Cut the veal into pieces of about 
three inches in length and two in 
width. Cut the ham into dice shape, 
and the sweet potatoes, after peeling, 
into cubes of about one and a half 
inches. Use a half sweet pepper pod, 
if possible, being careful to extract 
all the seeds. Season the veal highly. 
Put a tablespoonful of lard into the 
stowpot (butter is nicer, if it can be 
afforded), add the veal and let it 
l^rown nicely; then add the ham, the 
sweet potatoes and the pepper pod, 
and let them simmer gently for about 
fifteen minutes. In the meantime, 
prepare the following sauce: Drop a 
tablespoonful of butter into a sauce- 
pan, and when it melts add the 
chopped onions, and as they brown 
nicely, the minced herbs and garlic, 
and then the tomatoes sliced and 
chopped, in their own liquor. Let 
them cook for about fifteen minutes, 
and then add them to the stewing 
veal; mix thoroughly and set on a 
slow fire, covering tightly, letting it 
simmer slowly and constantly, with a 
regular fire, for about two hours 
Then add the okra, which has been 
tipped and sliced very thinly; let the 
mixture simmer for a half hour long- 
er, and serve. 

Veal Patties or Veal Loaf. 

Pdt^a dc Veau ou Pain dc Veau 

3 Pounds of Veal Cutlets. 

3 Yolks of Eggs, beaten light. 6 

Crackers. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Chopped Parsley, Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 
1 Pound of Lean Ham. The Juice of 1 

Lemon. 

Stew the veal, and then powder the 
crackers very fine. Mince the cut- 
lets, the herbs and the ham very fine. 
Season well with salt and pepper, an.l 
mix with the bread crumbs and beat- 
en eggs. Use a clove of garlic if the 
taste be desired; and juice of one 
lemon. With the whole form nice lit- 
tle loaves of pie shape, smooth over 
the top with butter, brush with egcr, 
beaten well, sprinkle with crumbs, 



and bake in a moderate oven, pla.cing 
a buttered paper over the patties. The 
loaf may be formed whole, cut in thin 
slices and served cold. 



Blanquette of Veal. 

Blanquette de Veau 

3 Pounds of Veal Brisket. 
2 Onions. 1 Carrot. % Can of Mush- 
rooms. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Yolks of 2 Eggs. Juice of 1 Lemon 

% Gallon of Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Cut the brisket of veal into pieces 
two inches square, put it in a stewpot 
and cover with a half gallon of water, 
and add salt and pepper and two 
onions and one carrot, chopped fine. 
Let it boil till very tender. When it 
reaches this stage, take the meat out 
of the saucepan, keeping the water in 
which it was boiled. Put a tablespoon- 
ful of butter in another saucepan 
and as it melts add a tablespoonful 
of flour. Mix well, continuing to dis- 
solve till it becomes a smooth cream; 
do not let it brown. Add one pint of 
the water in which the veal wa? 
boiled. Stir well, making it ver> 
light, and not thick. Add one-hall 
can of mushrooms, and let the whole 
boil about fifteen minutes, so as to be 
very light. Then put in the cooked 
veal, lotting it simmer for about fif- 
teen minutes longer. Take it off the 
fire, add the yolks of two eggs, well 
beaten, with two tablespoonfuls of the 
gravy and the juice of one lemon. 
Serve hot. 

Jellied VeaL 

Noix dc Veau d la OcUe 

The Filet or Part of Lower Shoulder 

Blade of Veal. 

6 Peppercorns. 

2 Calf's Feet. 1 Blade of Mace. 

2 Large Onions. 2 Carrots. 
1 Gill of French Vinegar. 

1 Dozen Cloves Mashed Fine. 
4 Allspice Mashed Fine. 
3 Quarts of Beef Broth. 

Cut the veal into fine pieces, season 
•well, and put it in a kettle with the 
calf's feet, seasoning highly with pep- 
per, Cayenne and salt to taste. 
Add throe quarts of beef broth, or 
"pot-au-feu." Add the minced vege- 
tables, hi.rbs and the peppercorns, 
and let it boil gently until it forms 
a Jelly, which will be in about two 
and a half hours. Then take out the 
veul and calf's feet, very carefully 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



SI 



remove all the bones, If any, and 
place in a n^old. Let the liquor in 
which it was boiled cook until it is 
reduced to about a quart, addingr, in 
the meantime, a gill of vinegar. When 
ready, pour it over the meat, and set 
it in a cold place over night. When 
cold, turn out of the mold and gar- 
nish nicely with sliced lemon and 
parsley sprigs and serve in slices. 



Veal With Olives. 

Vcau aux Olivet 

A Flank of Veal. 

1 Slice of Cold Boiled Ham. 

1 Grated Onion. 1 Hard-Boiled Egrgr. 

1 Lemon. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Dozen Stoned Olives. * 

This is a very old-fashioned Creole 
dish. Get a flank of veal and cut it 
Into strips of about four inches in 
length and four in width. Cut off 
aufllcient to make a half cup, and 
r^hop this fine, with a slice of cold 
boiled ham. Make a mince meat, 
adding chopped herbs, according to 
taste, one grated onion, one hard- 
boiled egg, the juice of one lemon and 
a tablespoonful of butter, with a half 
cup of bread crumbs. Take the strips 
of veal, stuff them nicely with this 
mixture and roll over the ends, tying 
to prevent the farcie from escaping. 
Place a tablespoonful of butter in a 
frying pan, and, when it heats, add 
the rolls of veal. Let them fry for 
ten minutes, turning, and then add 
soup broth sufficient to cover them. 
Cover closely and set on a low fire 
and let them simmer steadily but 
slowly for an hour longer; then place 
them in a hot dish, pour the gravy 
over, seasoning highly: add about two 
dozen stoned olives and serve hot. 



Veal Pot Pie. 

Vol-au-Vent de Veau 

A Veal Brisket. 
2 Slices of Breakfast Bacon or Ham. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. % Dozen 

Potatoes. 

Thyme, Bay Leaf and Parsley. 

Salt, Pepper anJ Cayenne to Taste. 

This is a famous dish among the 
Creoles with large families. For a 
family of six get a veal brisket, and 
allow three parts of minced veal to 
one of ham. 

Make a nice pie crust. (See Plain 
Paste.) Line a baking pan with this, 
and bake in the oven. Cut the meat 
very fine, into dice, and season highly, 



rubbing with the minced thyme, pars- 
Icy, bay leaf, a little salt, pepper and 
Cayenne. Stew the meat as in Ragoat 
de Veau fi. la Bourgeoise. Place in 
the pan. Dot the top with bits of 
crust, decorating the edges nicely. 
Bake to a fine brown. Serve in the 
dish in which it was cooked, with any 
left-over sauce spread over the slices. 

Veal Croquettes. 

Croquettes de Veau 

% of a Pound of Cold (Cooled) Veal. 

1 Small Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 

4 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Large Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Onion. 1 Cup of Milk. 

1 Tcaspoonful of Salt. 

Cayenne and Pepper to Taste. 

This is an excellent way of utilizing 
left-over veal. Remove all the tough 
fibers and nerves. Hash the veal well 
and season with the minced vegeta- 
bles and sweet herbs, mixing all thor- 
oughly. Then take a cup of the In- 
side of the bread, wet it, squeeze, and 
soak in milk, in which you have beat- 
en two eggs. Mix all this with the 
meat very thoroughly and season to 
taste. When well mixed, form the 
meat into cylindrical shapes and 
brush with a little butter. Then roll 
in a beaten egg and roll a?aln in pow- 
dered bread crumbs. Fry in boiling 
lard and serve hot on a plate gar- 
nished with fried parsley. 

Cairs Head & la Poulette. 

Tete de Vcau d la Poulette 

1 Calf's Head. Tolk of 1 Egg. 

1 Lemon. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Vinegar. 

Sauce & la Poulette. 

Clean and prepare the calfa head 
as in the recipe given for "Calf's Head 
Soup." (See recipe.) Then boll it 
according to recipe. Cut one lemon 
fine and add to the boiling calf head, 
which, it must be noted, has been 
boiled simply in water, salt and pep- 
per. Add two tablespoonfuls of good 
vinegar and let it cook till done. This 
is either used to make a mock turtle 
soup or is served with a Sauce & la 
I^oulctte, as follows: Make a Sauce 
a la Poulette. (See recipe.) Put the 
calf's he:id in the sauce and let it boil 
for ,a half hour. Beat the yolk of one 
egg as you would for an omelet. Add 
to the calf's head and serve. This will 
give the sauce a fine golden color. 

Calf's head may also be served with 
a Sauce Allemande. (See recipe.) 



82 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE GOOK BOOK 



Cairs Head k la Tortne. 

TCte dc Veau d la Tortue 

1 Calf's Head. 2 Largre Onions. 

^ Can of Mushrooms. 1 Lemon. 

Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 "Eggs. 1 Pint of Consomme or Water. 

Slice the onions and mince the gar- 
lic. Put the butter Into a stewpot, 
and as it melts add the onions and let 
them brown; then add the grarlic and 
let it come to a rich brown. Add one 
tablespoonful of flour, sifted well* and, 
as this becomes brown, add one pint 
of consomme, or water if you have 
not the broth. Then put in the chop- 
ped thyme, bay leaf and the peel of 
one lemon, cut very fine with the juice. 
Let all this simmer for about ten min- 
utes and then cut up the calf's head 
and add it to the mixture. After fif- 
teen minutes add a half can of mush- 
rooms. Let it all cook about ten min- 
utes, and then season well, according 
to taste. Let it cook about half an 
hour longer, and, when ready to serve, 
place the calf's head in the middle of 
the dish, pour the gravy over it and 
spread the mushrooms around. Gar- 
n'sh the dish with bits of a flat 
omelet, which you have made from 
the two eggs, and cut into diamond 
shapes, alternating with toast buttered 
and cut into diamond-shaped Crod- 
tons. 



Calves' Brains, Bro^n Butter Sauce. 

Cervellct de Veau au Beurre Noir 

Calves' Brains. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Small Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 1 Sprig of Parsley. 

Sauce au Beurre Noir. 

Prepare the brains as mentioned 
above by boiling, then place them in a 
saucepan, with a tablespoonful of but- 
ter. Cut up a tiny onion, and add 
also a sprig of thyme, bay leaf and 
parsley, all minced very fine. Add to 
the butter, then put in the brains 
cut in slices a half inch thick. Sea- 
son again to taste. Pry for five min- 
utes, and serve with a Sauce au 
Beurre Noir. (See recipe.) 



Calves* Brains Fried. 

Cervellea de Veau Frites 

Calves' Brains. 1 Onion. 

2 Sprigs of Parsley. 1 Bay Leaf. 

Grated Bread Crumbs. 

Plunge the brains into cold water 
to disgorge them of all bloou and re- 



move the fine skin and veins that 
surround them. Then blanch with 
scalding water. In five minutes take 
them out of the hot water and put 
them into a saucepan and cover with 
cold water. Add a tiny onion, sliced 
fine; parsley and bay leaf, whole. Let 
them simmer gently for five minutes. 
Then take from the fire and drain. 
When cold, cut into pieces an inch 
square, dip these in a batter or tomato 
sauce, and then in grated bread 
crumbs, patting gently. Drop into 
boiling lard and fry to a golden 
brown. Take out and drain of grease 
and serve on a bed of fried parsley. 
A garnish of boiled green peas is also 
very pretty and palatable. 

Calves' liver Fried. 

Fa^ de Veau 8aut6 d la Lyonnaiae 

1 Pound of Liver. 2 Onions. 

1 Tablrspoonful of Lard or Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Slice the liver very fine into pieces 
of about three inches in length and 
one in width. Season well with salt 
and pepper. Put a tablespoonful of 
lard or butter into the frying pan and 
when it is hot, add the sliced onions, 
and, as they brown, place on top the 
slices of liver. Let them brown on 
one side about two minutes and a half, 
and then turn on the other. Let this 
side brown and serve with the onion 
sauce, to which add a teaspoonful of 
vinegar. 

Fried liivcr and Bacon. 

Foie de Veau Frit au Petit 8al4 

1 Pound of Calf's Liver. 

% Pound of Breakfast Bacon. 

^^ Teaspnoonful of Salt. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Black Pepper to Taste. 

Slice the liver into pieces of about 
three inches in length and one-quarter 
of an inch in thickness; slice the 
bacon very thin, having as many slices 
as there are of liver. Put the bacon 
in the frying pan and fry. brown; 
then place it in a heated dish and set 
over a pot of boiling water, covering 
it to keep warm. Dust the liver with 
flour, after having seasoned well with 
salt and pepper and fry it in the bacon 
fat. When it has cooked two minutes 
and a half to each side, take It out and 
arrange it on the same dish with the 
bacon in alternate slices. Garnish 
nicely with parsley and serve. 



THE PICAYITNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



83 



Cairs Liver k la Bonrgeofse. 

Foie de Veau Sauti d la Bourgeoise 

1 Calf's Liver. 1 Carrot. 1 Onion. 
i Turnip. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Bay Leaf. 
1 Pint of Broth or Water. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wash the liver and lard it well with 
needles. Put a tablespoonful of lard 
or butter into the frying pan, and 
when hot, add immediately the onion, 
carrot and turnip, all sliced very fine, 
and then the fine herbs, nicely minced. 
Let these brown, and a'dd the liver. 
Add about a pint of consomm6 or 
boiling water. Season highly, cover 
the saucepan well, set it on a low fire, 
let it simmer for about half an hour, 
and serve. 



the water in which the cairs feet have 
been boiled. Stir well and throw in 
the calf's feet, salt and pepper to 
taste, and, if desired, about a quarter 
of a can of chopped mushrooms Let 
it boil about five minutes, and then 
take off the stove and add the yolk of 
an egg (beaten well), the Juice of one 
lemon, and serve. 

Calf's Feet, Tomato Sauce. 

Pieda de Veau, Sauce Tomate 

3 Calf's Feet. 
A Sauce a la Tomate (1 Pint). 

Prepare the feet as in the recipe 

"Calf's Feet, Plain," and pour over, 

when ready to serve, a Sauce k la 

Tomate. (See recipe.) 



Calf's Feet, Plain. 

Pi€d8 de Veau au Naturel 

3 Calf's Feet 
3 Quarts of Cold Water, i Gill of Vin- 
egar. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Onion. 1 Carrot. 

12 Whole Pepper Corns. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Salt. 

1 Herb Bouquet. 

Split each of the calf's feet in two, 
then carefully remove the larger 
bones, and cut the meat into pieces of 
about one inch square. 3oak well in 
fresh water for one hour. Then wash 
and drain thoroughly. Put two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and three quarts 
of cold w*ater into a saucepan; stir 
well, mixing thoroughly; place the 
feet in the mixture and add one onion 
(chopped fine), twelve whole peppers, 
one carrot cut into fine shreds; the 
herb bouquft and two tablespoonfuls 
of salt. Let the feet boil briskly for 
about one hour. Take from the fire 
and drain well. They are now ready 
to serve with any sauce that may be 
desired. 



Calf's Feet k la Poulette. * 

Pieda de Veau d la Poulette 

Calf's Feet. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Sifted Lard. 

1 Pint of Water. V^ Can of Mushrooms. 

Yolk of 1 Egg. Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Boll the calf's feet; then take out 
the larger bones and cut In pieces of 
about an inch square. Prepare a Sauce 
k la Poulette by putting one table- 
spoonful of butter in a sd.ucepan, and, 
as it melts, add two tablespoonfuls 
of sifted flour, and about one pint of 



Calf's Feet, Piquante Sance. 

Pieda de Veau, Sauce Piquante 

3 Calf's Feet. 
1 Pint of Sauce Piquante. 

Prepare the calf's feet as in recipe 
for "Calf's Feet, Plain," and add, 
when ready to serve, one pint of Sauce 
Piquante. (See recipe.) 

Cairs Feet, Sauce R^moulade. 

Pieda de Veau d la Sauce R6moulade 

3 Calf's Feet. 
Sauce R6moulade, 1 Pint. 

Prepare the feet as in the recipe for 
"Calf's Feet, Plain," and pour over, 
when ready to serve, one pint of hot 
Sauce R6moulade. (See recipe.) 

Calf's Feet, Italian Sauce. 

Pieda de Veau d la Sauce Italienne 

3 Calf's Feet. 
1 Pint of Sauce k I'ltalienne. 

Prepare the feet as in the recipe for 

"Calf's Feet, Plain," and serve with 

one pint of Sauce k I'ltalienne. (See 

recipe.) 

SWEETBREADS. 

Ria de Veau 
Sweetbreads are the glands used by 
the calf in sucking, and are found 
only in the young calf during the 
period when it is fed on its mother's 
milk. When a calf is turned out to 
grass, the sweetbreads, or milk glands, 
begin to grow smaller, and in three 
or four days disappear, no longer 
standing out in a mass of delicate 
fiesh, but hanging long and soft and 
fiabby. On account of their delicacy, 
sweetbreads have always been the de- 



84 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



light of all expert emd grenulne French 
culslnl^res, because. In a fine fresh 
state and with proper preparation 
they can be made not only into a de- 
lightful and palatable dish, but are, 
perhaps, the most recherch6 of all 
meats. 

How to Blanch Sweetbreads. 

Select three fine pairs of sweet- 
breads and clean and trim nicely. 
Soak them for at least two and a half 
hours in cold, fresh water, pouring 
off the water from time to time till 
three separate waters have been used. 
About three-quarters of an hour may 
be allowed for the first two waters. 
Add a pinch of salt to each water. 
After soaking for the time specified, 
drain the sweetbreads and place them 
in a saucepan of cold water and set 
on the fire; add a half teaspoonful of 
salt, and let them blanch till they 
come to a boil. Then drain and set 
them in cold water to freshen. Drain 
thoroughly, press them into shape and 
lay on a napkin in a cool place. They 
are now ready for general use. The 
sweetbreads should be pressed down 
gently with a pound weight, in order 
to flatten them well. 



Sweetbreads Ijarded, With Mushroom 

Sauoe. 

Rig de Veau Piques auw Champignons 

6 Sweetbreads. 1 Carrot. 
4 Thin Slices of Bacon. 
1 Onion. H Can of Mushrooms. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 1 Table- 
spoonful of Butter. 
1 Whole Sprig of Thyme. 3 Bay 

Leaves. 

1 Pint of Consomme. 

Salt and Pepper. Croutons. 

Soak the sweetbreads in clear, cold 
water as soon as you come from mar- 
ket, for they are so delicate that they 
spoil very easily. Wash well, to take 
off all the blood; wash again in clear 
cold water, and parboil them for ten 
minutes. Then drain them well, press 
them into shape and put them on a 
clean cloth on a table and cover with 
a plank weighted down to flatten them 
out. When cold, clean with a knife, 
cutting off all the outside nerves, veins 
and fibers, without breaking the 
sweetbreads, however. Cut fat lard 
into little strips like matches, and, 
with a larding needle, lard the sweet- 
breads, slipping the needle in on one 
side and bringing out on the other. 



Lard each sweetbread eight times. 
Then slice one onion and one carrot 
very fine; mince three bay leaves and 
a whole sprig of thyme. Take a very 
thin slice of very fat bacon, cut it Into 
thin strips and cover the bottom of 
the sauce pan with these. Lay the 
sweetbreads on top and put on top of 
thelse the sliced onion, carrot and 
finely minced herbs. Salt and pepper 
by sprinkling nicely. Cover this with 
a few fine strips of fat bacon. Cover 
the whole with a brown paper, which 
has been well greased with butter, and 
put the pan in a slow oven with the 
paper on top. Let the sweetbreads 
bake for about twenty minutes, bast- 
ing occasionally. In the meantime 
piake a Sauce & TEspagnole as fol> 
lows: Chop a few pieces of beef very 
fine, or else use good stock. If meat 
is used, boil it in two pints of 
water. When it is reduced to about 
one pint, take off and strain. Brow^n 
lightly a tablespoonful of butter or 
lard with a tablespoonful of flour. 
Then add the water and dissolve well, 
stirring constantly to prevent its being 
lumpy. Add to this a half can of 
mushrooms, letting all simmer a few 
minutes, then cook it rapidly for about 
ten minutes. In the meantime, the 
sweetbreads will have been cooked to 
a nicety. Take them out of the pan 
put them one by one into the sauce, 
and let them cook ten minutes longer. 
Serve with buttered Crodtons cut in 
dice shapes. Sweetbreads are always 
eaten with fresh young grreen peas. 

Sweetbreads With Green Peas. 

Ri% de Veau Saut6a aux Petit Poia 

3 Pairs of Sweetbreads. 
1 Onion. 1 Carrot. 4 Slices of Fat 

Bacon. 

1 Can of French .Petit Pois, or 1 Pint 

of Fresh Young Green Peas. 

3 Bay Leaves. 
1 Sprig of Thyme. 3 Cloves. 
^ Pint of Fresh Milk. 1 Pint of Con- 
somme. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
CroQtons. 

Prepare the Sweebreads as in the 

above recipe, which is the very nicest 

way in -which they can be served. 

Make the sauce as directed, letting 

it brown slightly, adding, instead of 

the mushrooms, a can of French Petit 

Pols or a pint of fresh young green 

peas that have already been boiled 

well and drained from all liquor. 

Place the sweetbreads in one by one 

and let them cook for ten minutes 



TBK PICAYUXB CREOLE COOK BOOK 



85 



longrer and serve them in the center 
of the dish, with the ^een peas as a 
garnish. 

Sweetbreads With Trnfflea. 

His de Veau atix TruJEfea 

t Pairs of Sweetbreads. 

4 Slices of Fat Bacon. H Can of 

Truffles. 1 Onion. 1 Carrot. 

1% Pints of Consomm6 or Water. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Tablepsoonful of Butter. 

3 Bay Leaves. 1 Sprig: of Thyme. 

Salt and Pepper. CroOtons. 
Prepare the Sweetbreads in exactly 
the same manner as in the recipe 
"Sweetbreads with Mushrooms." When 
making: the sauce, add one-half can 
of truffles cut in halves. Serve with 
the truffles as a garnish about^ the 
sweetbreads. This is a very expensive 
dish. 

Sweetbreads h la Cr^me. 
Ri8 de Veau d la Cr^me 

3 Pairs of Sweetbreads. 
10 Mushrooms. 1% Tablespoonfuls of 

Butter. 
1% Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 
1 Pint of Cream. 
Clean and parboil the Sweetbreads 
for twenty minutes. Then remove all 
veins and nerves, and chop the meat 
into pieces of about ah inch and a 
half. Chop the mushrooms very fine 
indeed. Heat the butter in a sauce- 
pan, and, when it melts, add the flour, 
being careful not to let it brown. 
When perfectly smooth, add the milk 
and stir constantly until it boils. Then 
add the chopped mushrooms and let 
them simmer for five minutes. Sea- 
son well to taste with salt and white 
pepper. Then add the Sweetbreads 
and xiook for five minutes longer and 
serve hot. At luncheons and dinners 
the Sweetbreads a, la Cr^me are seryed 
in small silver shells or fancy paper 
cases. 

Sweetbreads & la Financidre. 

RU de Veau d la Fiancitre 

3 Pairs of Sweetbreads. ^ Pound of 

Butter. 
3 Carrots. 2 Sprigs of Thyme. 
3 Bay Leaves. 
1% Pints of Beef Consomme or Water. 

1 Pint of Rich Chicken Broth or Water. 

2 Truffles. 12 Mushrooms. 18 Stoned 

Olives. 12 Quenelles. 
2 Blanched Chicken Livers. 

A Dash of Cayenne. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Croutons Fried in Butter to Garnish. 
Select fine, fresh Sweetbreads and 
prepare as in the recipe tov Sweet- 
breads Larded With Mushrooms. Par- 
boil for twenty minutes; then drain 



of all water; press them Into shape, 
lay on a clean napkin and cover with 
a plank and place a weight upon them 
to press and make solid. Take a piece 
of fine salt pork, and cut into little 
thin strips like matches and lard the 
Sweetbreads with this, using a very 
fine larding needle, and following im- 
plicitly the directions given in the 
recipe for Sweetbreads Larded With 
Mushroom Sauce. Lard each Sweet- 
bread eight times. Then take a shal- 
low saucepan and put in it a half 
pound of butter. When the butter 
melts, lay in the Sweetbreads, one by 
one. Season with salt and pepper very 
lightly, and add the three carrots, 
sliced fine, and the onion, sliced very 
fine. Add the finely minced thyme 
and bay leaves. Butter a piece of 
brown paper and cover the saucepan; 
then set in the oven and let the Sweet- 
breads cook slowly till they are of a 
bright golden brown. From time to 
time uncover the saucepan and turn 
the Sweetbreads, so that all portions 
of them may be evenly colored. When 
they have reached this beautiful color 
add one pint of good beef broth (Con- 
somme or Bouillon), and let them 
simmer for a half or three-quarters 
of an hour. When nearly ready to 
serve, prepare a Sauce & la FlnanclSre, 
as follows: Take two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, melt and remove from the 
fire, and add gradually a tablespoon- 
ful of flour; blend well with a wood- 
en spoon till very smooth, and moisten 
with one and one-half pint of rich 
chicken broth and set on the fire. Add 
the truffles nicely sliced; a dozen and 
a half stoned olives; the blanched 
chicken livers, cut in pieces; the 
mushrooms, nicely chopped, salt and 
pepper to taste, and a dash of Cay- 
enne or Tobasco. Let the sauce cook 
for twenty minutes. It should be of 
the consistency of rich cream. Place 
the sauce in a round dish, lay the 
Sweetbreads over it, garnish with the 
Quenelles and Crofitons fried in but- 
ter and send to the table hot. 

Sweetbreads k la Poulette. 

Ri9 de Veau d la Poulette 

3 Pairs of Sweetbreads. 

The Yolks of 4 Eggs. The Juice of I 

Lemon. 

% Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 

A Sauce h. la Poulette. 

Parboil the sweetbreads for about 
twenty minutes, then make a Sauce 



86 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



k la Poulette (see recipe), adding: the 
juice of one lemon and seasoning to 
taste. But do not add the eggs till the 
sauce has been takeii from the fire 
or it will curdle. When the sauce is 
made, place the Sweetbreads in it, one 
by one, and let it come to the boiling 
point. Then remove from the fire and 
stir in the yolks of four eggs that 
have been well beaten, and a half 
tablespoonful of butter. Sprinkle with 
finely-chopped parsley, pour over the 
Sweetbreads and serve. 

Sweetbreads in Casseroles. 

Rig de Veau en Caatcroles, ou Vol-au-Vent 

3 Pairs of Sweetbreads. 
^ Can of Mushrooms. 
A Sauce & la Poulette. 

Parboil the Sweetbreads in exactly 
the same manner as in the above 
recipe for Sweetbreads d. la Poulette. 
Six Sweetbreads will suffice. Cut them 
into dice pieces after parboiling; add 
a quarter of a can of finely-chopped 
mushrooms to the sauce. Cut two 
dozen oysters into pieces, taking 
ofT all the hard portions. A.dd the 
chopped Sweetbreads to the sauce, 
and, after ten minutes, add the oys- 
ters. Let them cook for five minutes, 
have ready a pan filled with a rich 
Vol-au-Vent crust, pour the mixture 
in and serve. Or make the Vol-au- 
Vent crust, which is very difficult (see 
recipe), into small shells, bake and 
fill with the Sweetbreads. This is an 
elegant dish for fashionable lunch- 
eons, but quite above the ordinary 
householder's purse. The Sweetbreads 
are generally served in casseroles or 
fancy cases. 

Sweetbreads Cr^pinettes. ' 

Cr6pinette8 de Ris de Veau 

3 Pairs of Sweetbreads. 

1 Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 1 fc'prlg of 

Thyme. V6 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Prepared Mustard. 

Clean and parboil the Sweetbreads 
as already shown in recipe. Chop an 
onion very fine and place it in a 
saucepan with a tablespoonful of but- 
ter. Let them simmer without brown- 
ing; add one bay leaf, one sprig of 
thyme, one-half clove of garlic, a 
teaspoonful of prepared mustard, and 
mix well. Then add a pint of water 
and stir well; then add the Sweet- 
breads, which have been chopped very 
fine and formed into "Cr^plnettes," or 
little fringed balls, by patting with 



the hand: let them simmer for about 
fifteen minutes longer. Serve with 
any sauce, preferably a Cream Sauce. 
(See recipe under chapter "Sauces for 
Fish, Meats, etc.") 

Fried Sweetbreads Breaded. 

Ris de Vvau Pan(» 

3 Pairs of Sweetbreads. 
1 Egg. Grated Bread Crumbs. 
A Cream Sauce. 
Wash and parboil the Sweetbreads 
and then trim off all tendons and 
nerves. Cut into pieces of about two 
inches long and roll first in a well- 
beaten egg and then in bread crumbs. 
Drop into boiling fat and fry till a 
golden brown. Serve with a Cream 
Sauce. 

Broiled Sweetbreads. 

Ri» dc Veau Grilles 

3 Pairs of Sweetbreads. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Melted Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Parboil the Sweetbreads and then 
remove all nerves. Cut into halves. 
Brush with melted butter and place 
on the gridiron. Broil nicely, and, 
when well colored, take off, pour 
melted butter over them, season again, 
and serve very hot. 

Sweetbreads Smottiered. 

Ris de Veau Braisscs 

n Pairs of Sweetbreads. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Carrot. 1 Onion. 

2 Sprigs of Thyme. 2 Bay Leaves. 

1 Pint of Consomm^ or Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Prepare the Sweetbreads as in the 
recipe for "Sweetbreads Larded With 
Mushrooms." Put them into a sauce- 
pan with two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, and let them brown slightly*. Add 
a finely sficed carrot and onion and 
the minced herbs. Season lightly with 
salt and pepper. Cover the saucepan 
with a buttered paper, and then cover 
closely. Occasionally, uncover and 
turn the Sweetbreads till they are al' 
browned evenly to a nice golden 
color. When they have reached this 
stage add the pint of Consommfe or 
water and cover again and let them 
simmer for about twenty minutes. 
They are now ready to serve with any 
kind of sauce or garnish that may be 
desired. In serving Sweetbreads thus 
prepared, always place the sauce on 
the dish, first having the dish very 
hot; lay the Sweetbreads over the 
sauce, garnish nicely with fried Crotl- 
tons and serve. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



87 



Sweetbreads thus prepared may be 
served with a Sauce d, 1' Giselle, Sauce 
Salpicon, Sauce d, la Soubise, Sauce 
& la Bearnaise, Sauce k la Duxelle, 
Sauce aux Gourmets, with a Pur6e 
of Spinach, or with hot Crapes. 

TRIPE. 

Tripe 
Tripe, which is the large stomach 
of ruminating animals, is generally 
cleaned, scraped, bleached and pre- 
pared by the butchers before it is sold. 
It is nutritious and digestible. To 
prepare the tripe properly for cook- 
ing, wash it carefully in several wa- 
ters. When thoroughly clean, put it 
in a kettle of cold water, add one 
tablespoonful of salt and one of vine- 
gar, and let the tripe boil for five 
hours at least. It is always best, if 
tripe is to be used for breakfast, to 
prepare it and give the long boiling 
the day before. Drain thoroughly. 
Then it is ready for preparation ac- 
cording to any of the following 
recipes: 

Stewed Tripe. 

Tripe 8aut6e 

2 Pounds of Prepared Tripe. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Sprig of Parsley. 1 Bay Leaf. 

% Clove of Garlic. % Pint of Milk. 

Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 

Take the prepared tripe and cut 
into strips of about one finger length 
and a half inch in width. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter in a saucepan; add 
a finely sliced onion, a sprig of pars- 
ley and a bay leaf, minced. Stir to- 
gether without letting it brown, then 
add a tablespoonful of fiour. Stir 
well and add a pint of milk. Stir 
constantly till it comes to a boil, sea- 
soning to the taste with salt and pep- 
per. Then add the well-seasoned tripe 
and let it cook over a moderate fire 
for about five minutes. 



Stewed Tripe k la Iiyonnalse. 

Tripe SauHc d la Lyonnaiae 

2 Pounds of Prepared Tripe. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Sprig of Parsley. 1 Bay Leaf. 

% Clove of Garlic. 

'The Juice of I Lemon, or a Teaspoonful 

of Vinegar. 
Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 

Place a tablespoonful of butter in a 
saucepan and add one chopped onion, 



one carrot, finely sliced; a sprig each 
of thyme, parsley, bay leaf and salt 
and pepper. Let it brown slightly 
and place the tripe on top, adding a 
half clove of garlic, minced very fine. 
Sprinkle with chopped parsley and 
add the juice of one lemon. Let it 
all simmer for a few minutes and then 
add a half cup of broth or hot water. 
Season to taste; let it simmer for 
twenty minutes longer and serve. 

Tripe h la Poulette. 

Oras-Double d la Poulette 

2 Pounds of Tripe. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Sprig of Parsley. 1 Bay Leaf. 

The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 

A Sauce A la Poulette. 

Having prepared the tripe accord- 
ing to the directions given under the 
heading of "Tripe," make a rich 
Sauce k la Poulette, always omitting 
the eggs till later. (See recipe.) Add 
to the sauce eight small white onions 
that have already been boiled in plain 
water until they are perfectly tender. 
Let all this stew for about five min- 
utes. Then add the tripe, which has 
been cut into pieces of three inches 
in length and one-half inch in width, 
and stew the whole gently for about 
a half hour. Take it off the fire, add 
the beaten yolks of two eggs, stirring 
constantly, and serve hot. 

Tripe k la Creole. 

Oraa-Dou1)le d la Cr&olc 

2 Pounds of Tripe. 

12 TomatQjBS, or a 2-Pound Can. 

2 Onions. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Square Inch of Lean Ham. 

2 Cloves of Garlic. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A Dash of Cayenne. 

Clean the tripe well, and boll till 
tender. Cut it into slices of about 
two inches long and half an inch wide. 
Smother well in a saucepan two onions 
sliced fine, and a tablespoonful of but- 
ter. Then chop about one square inch 
of lean ham very fine, and add. Brown 
in a saucepan two cloves of garlic, 
chopped fine, with three sprigs each 
of thyme and bay leaf, minced very 
fine. Then add about twelve large, 
fresh tomatoes, or the contents of a 
two-pound can. Season all to taste 
with salt and Cayenne pepper. Let 
this cook for ten minutes, then add 



88 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE! GOOK BOOK 



the tripe, and let all smother for 
twenty-five minutes. Season to taAte, 
and serve hot. 



Fried Trtpe. 

Tripe Frite. 

2 Pounds of Tripe. 

1 EgrfiT. Grated Bread Crumbs. 

Parsley and Lemon to Garnish. 

Prepare the tripe, boil well, and cut 
into pieces of three inches in length 
and one in width. Roll it In a beaten 
egg and then in line grated bread 
crumbs. Drop in boiling lard and fry 
to a golden brown. (See direction? 
for frying.) Take off the Are and 
place on a bed of fried parsley and 
garnish with sliced lemon. Serve with 
a Sauce Piquante or a Sauce Poivrade. 
(See recipe for meat sauces.) 

Tripe h la Mode de Caen. 

Qraa-Douhle d la Mode de Caen 

3 Pounds of Tripe. 3 Onions. 3 Carrots. 

1 Dozen Whole Bay Leaves. 

1 Dozen Whole Cloves. 

1 Dozen Whole Allspice. 

3 Cloves of Garlic (whole). 

1 Ounce of Thyme (whole). 

2 Dozen Pieces of Bacon, 2 Inches 

Square. 

1 Cup of Broth or Water. 

Salt, Cayenne and Chili Pepper to 

Taste. 

Take three pounds of tripe. Cut the 

tripe into pieces of about two inches 

square. Slice three onions and three 



large carrotsHvery fine. Take one dozen 
whole bay leaves, one ounce of thyme, 
whole; one dozen whole cloves, and 
the same number of allspice, tliree 
whole cloves of garlic, two dozen 
pieces of very thin bacon cut into 
pieces of two inches square. Have 
ready a two-gallon earthen jar that 
can stand baking in an oven. Put in 
the bottom of the Jar a thin layer of 
butter. Place on top a thin layer of 
bacon, then a thin layer of onions, 
carrots, bay leaves, thyme, garlic, 
spices, dividing all ingredients into 
two equal portions. Sprinkle over 
the whole salt, Cayenne and Chili 
pepper. On top of this lay one-half 
of the tripe. Over the tripe place 
a layer of bacon; then vegetables, sea- 
sonings, etc. Over this place another 
layer of tripe, and remnants of thyme, 
bay leaf, vegetables, bacon, etc., aa 
below, this being the last layer. Pour 
over all a quart of broth or water. 
Cover the Jar closely with a layer of 
Pie Paste (Pfttfi Bris^e — ^see recipe) 
set in a very moderate oven, and 
let It cook slowly and very steadily 
for at least five hours. This is a very 
old-fashioned Creole dish, and excel- 
lent. Some add to the tripe a small 
quantity of calf's head or feet. In 
serving this dish you will need little 
else for dinner besides a soup or 
gumbo. 



CHAPTER XIV 







Du Mouton 



The leg, shoulder and loin of the 
mutton are used as roasting piecea 
The brisket and neck are used for 
soups and stews, and from the loins 
are cut the delicate French chops or 
cutlets of mutton. Mutton is so sus 
ceptible of good seasoning, and so 
easily impregnated with the different 
aromatic herbs used in cooking that 
it becomes not only most agreeable to 
the taste, but tender and very easily 
digested. 



Sotnetliing to Remember in Cooking 

Mutton. 

Remember that mutton must never 
be breaded, and mutton chops fried. 
You will hear of mutton chops en 
papilotte, in imitation of the ways of 
cooking veal chops, but the Creoles 
very wisely and very sensibly refrain 
from cooking mutton In any other 
ways than those given in this book. 
No good Creole cook will eat a fried 
mutton chop. 



TKE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



89 



Roast liCS of Mutton. 

Gigot Roti 

1 Legr of Mutton. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Select a fine, tender leg of mutton. 
"Wipe thoroughly with «- damp towel 
and dredge with salt and pepper, 
thoroughly rubbing, so that the meat 
may be penetrated by the seasoning. 
Place the mutton in a baking pan, 
set in a quick oven and bake, basting 
every ten minutes or so, allowing 
twelve minutes to every pound. It 
must never be overdone, but rather 
underdone. It will require no lard- 
ing, for the meat is rich and soon 
makes sufficient Juice to allow fre- 
quent basting. To ascertain if done, 
press with the fingers or stick with a 
fork; the juice will spurt out, and it 
is then ready to serve. Decorate the 
bone with a quilling of white paper, 
and serve in its own sauce. The dish 
on which mutton is placed must al- 
ways be very hot, as also the plates 
on which it is to be served. 

A very good way to serve it is to 
put a circle of nicely boiled and 
browned turnips around the dish, and 
«erve with the gravy of the mutton. 

Roast Saddlle of Mutton. 

Belle de Mouton Rdtie 

A Saddle of Mutton. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Currant Jelly. 

A Saddle of Mutton is two loins. 

Proceed to roast in exactly the same 

manner as for a single leg. Serve with 

Currant Jelly. 

Roast Loin of Mutton. 

Filet de Mouton R6ti 

A Fiiet of Mutton. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Garnish of Green Peas. 

The filet of mutton Is a square cut 
from the loin. Proceed to dredge with 
salt and pepper, and roast in exactly 
the same manner as leg of mutton. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton, Caper Sauce. 

Giaot de Mouton Bouilli, Sauce aux Cdprea 

1 Leg of Mutton. 1 Herb Bouquet. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A Caper Sauce. 

Rub the leg of mutton well with salt 
and pepper. Have ready a pot of 
boiling water, into which you have 
thrown the herbs, bay leaf, salt and 
pepper, allowing a teaspoonfu! each 



of the two latter ingredients. Put the 
leg of mutton into the water, being 
very careful to have it well covered 
with water, else the meat will blacken. 
Let it boil gently, but steadily, allow- 
ing fifteen minutes to every pound of 
meat. When done, place on a dish 
and serve with a Caper Sauce. In 
serving slice nicely, put a few drops 
of lemon on each slice, and pour 
over all the Caper Sauce. (See recipe 
Caper Sauce.) Mutton thus prepared 
is also served with a Pur^e of Turnips. 



Mutton Stew. 

Ragom de Mouton aux Pommea de Terre 

4 Pounds of the Brisket of Mutton. 

6 Irish Potatoes. 

3 Large Onions. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

% Clove of Garlic. 

% Tablespoonful oi Liard. 

2 Quarts of Water. 

1 Square Inch of Ham, Chopped Very 

Fine. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Cut the mutton into pieces of about 
an inch square and season well with 
salt and pepper. Put one-quarter of 
a tablespoonful of lard into the stew- 
pot, and when it melts add the thinly 
sliced onions. Let these brown for a 
few minutes and then add the mutton 
and the ham, chopped very fine. Let 
this continue browning, and when 
slightly browned add one tablespoon- 
ful of finely sifted fiour and stir well. 
Then add the finely minced bay leaf 
and a half clove of garlic, minced 
fine. Brown lightly, for a mutton 
stew must never be dark. After 
twenty minutes, add two quarts of 
boiling water and let it boil for about 
ten minutes longer, seasoning to taste. 
Then add the potatoes, cut into halves, 
and let the mixture cook for three- 
quarters of an hour longer, making 
one hour and a half in all. Let it 
simmer gently all the time, so that 
the meat may be perfectly tender. 



Mutton Stew With Turnips. 

RagoUta de Mouton aux Naveta 

4 Pounds of the Brisket of Mutton. 

6 Turnips. 3 Large Onions. 

1 Bay Leaf. % Clove of Garlic. 

j^ Tablespoonful of Lard. 

2 Quarts of Water. 

1 Square Inch of Ham, Chopped Very 

Fine. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Cut the mutton into pieces of about 
an inch in length and thickness, and 
season well. Proceed to make the stew 



90 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



as mentioned above, only instead of 
addiner^ potatoes, add turnips par- 
boiled, and cut into halves or quarters. 
This is a very delicious stew. The 
neck of the mutton may also be used 
for stews, but the brisket is better. 

Shouldcn* of Mutton Smothered With 

Turnips. 

£paul€ de Mouton BraMe, 

1 Shoulder of Mutton. 

1 Carrot. 1 Onion. % Stalk of Celery. 

4 Cloves. 1 Bay Leaf. 6 Turnips. 

If the mutton does not appear very 
tender the process of smothering it 
will make it so. It is good to beat the 
leg well with a rolling pin that you 
may be sure of good and tender eating. 
Season well. Slice an onion and one 
carrot very fine; chop fine a half stalk 
of celery, and put these, with the 
shoulder of mutton, into a deep bak- 
ing pot. Cover well and let the mut- 
ton Juice permeate the vegetables and 
brown them. Then add the minced 
bay leaves and cloves; cover and let 
these brown, and after ten minutes 
add one quart of boiling water. Season 
well again, and set on a steady fire al- 
lowing fifteen minutes to every pound. 
An hour before serving add six whole 
turnips, which have been peeled and 
parboiled, and let these remain smoth- 
ered with the mutton. Serve with 
the turnips as a garnish. This dish 
is highly recommended. 

Broiled Mutton Chops. 

Cdtelettcs de Mouton OrilUes et Panics 

6 Mutton Chops. 
Butter. Salt and Pepper. 

In selecting mutton chops for broil- 
ing, remember that the smaller French 
chops, which are cut from the breast 
of the mutton, are generally served 
at dinner, and the loin chops for 
breakfast. The breast chops are dain- 
tier in appearance, but the loin chops 
are sweeter and the meat is more 
solid. The French chops should al- 
ways be cut thinner than the loin 
chops. 

Season the chops well with salt and 
pepper and brush with melted butter 
and a few bread crumbs. Have the 
gridiron very hot and place the chops 
upon it. In a few seconds turn the 
chops and when they have browned 
quickly they are done. Place on a 
platter, butter thickly, sprinkle with 
chopped parsley and serve very hot. 



Mutton Cutlets. 

CQtelettes de Mouton. 

4 Mutton Cutlets. 
Butter. Salt and Pepper. 

The cutlets are slices from the thick 
part of the leg of the mutton and axe 
very excellent eating. Trim off the 
outer skin and broil in the same man- 
ner as mutton chops. They are very 
delicious served for dinner with a 
garnish of Pur6e of Spinach. (See 
recipe.) 

Mutton Chops, Brewer's Style. 

COtelctics dc Mouton au Brasseur 

6 Mutton Chops. 2 Tablespoonfuls of 

Butter. 

Juice of Lemon. 

3 Shallots. Chopped Fine. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Select six thick chops from the loin 
of the mutton. Trim neatly and sea- 
son well with salt and black pepper 
and a dash of Cayenne. Rub lighcly 
with butter on either side and broil 
on a hot charcoal flre. Have ready a 
hot dish and pour over the chops a 
sauce of melted butter, seasoned nice- 
ly with salt and pepper, the juice of 
one lemon and three minced shallots. 
Serve hot. 

Mutton Hash. 

Il&chia dc Mouton. 

3 Cups of Hashed Mutton*. 

6 Potatoes. 1 Herb Bouquet. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard or Butter. 

This is an excellent way of utilizing 
the left-over mutton. After having 
taken off all the rough edges of the 
roast and cut out the gristle and hard 
membrane, hash the mutton into 
pieces of about one inch in size. Take 
six left-over tomatoes, or freshly 
boiled ones cut into quarters. Chop 
fine one herb bouquet. Place a table- 
spoonful of butter or a half table- 
spoonful of lard in a deep stewpot, and 
as it melts add the mutton seasoned 
well, and a few minutes later the line 
herbs. Mince the clove of garlic if 
the flavor is liked and add. Stir con- 
stantly without browning much, and 
add a tablespoonful of flour. Let this 
brown very slightly and then add the 
tomatoes. Cover and let all simmer 
for about twenty minutes, then pour 
over It a pint of boiling water. Season 
again to taste, set on a low flre and 
let It simmer gently for about three- 
quarters of an hour. Cut some Crotl- 
tons and fry them in butter; place on 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



91 



a dish and serve with the hash. The 
Creoles often add several poached 
eggs if the sauce is not ^hick enough. 
It is als t a frequent custom to add 
a quarter or a half can of mushrooms 
to the hash, but this is always a mat> 
ter of taste and economy. 

Mutton Feet h la Poulette. 

Pied9 de Mouton d la Poulette, 

12 Mutton Feet. 

A Sauce & la Crdme. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

% Tablespoonful of French Vlnegrar. 

1 am of Water. The Yolks of 2 Egffs. 

^ Can of Mushrooms (if desired). 

Scald the mutton feet in boiling: 
TV'ater and remove every vestige of 
wool that may adhere, cleaning and 
scraping the feet. Then place them 
in a pot, cover well with boiling water, 
add half a lemon (including peel and 
meat) to the water, and salt well. In 
the meantime, prepare a Sauce & la 
Poulette as follows: Make a Cream 
Sauce (see recipe Meat Sauces) and 
add the juice of one lemon, or half a 
tablespoonful of good vinegar. Take 
the mutton feet out of the water in 
which they have been boiled, pulling 
out the big bones. Put the boned 
feet into the Sauce a, la Poulette, add 
a gill of water, let all simmer about 
five minutes, and then ta«ke off the 
fire and add the yolks of two eggs, 
beaten well, stirring them into the 
[^uce. Serve hot. Many of the Cre- 
oles add a half can of mushrooms to 
the mutton feet before putting in the 
sauce. This makes the dish very de- 
licious, increasing the flavor. 



Mutton Feet k la Lyonnalse. 

Pieds de Mouton d la Lyonnaisc. 

12 Mutton Feet. 

2 Onions. 1 Tablesooonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Pint of Broth. Salt and Pepper to 

Taste. 
CroQtons. 

Clean and boll the mutton feet in 
the same way as indicated In the 
above recipe. When done take out the 
large bones and cut the feet Into two- 
inch pieces. Cut two onions very fine, 
mincing them, and brown In a sauce- 
pan with a tablespoonful of butter. 
When slicrhtly brown add a table- 
spoonful of flour. Mix well, making 
a nice Brown Roux (see recipe under 
chapter on "Sauces for Meats, Fish, 
etc.") and then add about a pint of 
the broth in which the mutton feet 



have been boiled. As It bolls, skim 
off the grease and let It simmer for 
about ten minutes. Then add tho 
mutton feet and let them simmer ten 
minutes longer, and serve hot, with 
Crotltons of bread fried In butter. 
Mutton feet may also be served with 
a Pur6e of Onions. (See recipe.) 

Stuffed Mutton Feet. 

Pieds de Mouton Farcii. 

12 Mutton Feet, hk Cup of Wet Bread. 

1 Hard-Boiled Egg. 1 Spoon of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

3 Thin Slices of Veal. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

3 Carrots. 2 Onions. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean the mutton feet well, accord- 
ing to directions given, and boll and 
take out all the bones. Take a half 
cup of wet bread and squeeze well. 
Season It well with salt and pepper, 
fry in a little butter and add a 
chopped egg. Stuff the feet with this, 
splitting down the length and sewing 
up to keep the dressing from escap- 
ing. Put in a large saucepan one 
tablespoonful of lard and lay over it 
thin slices of veal, well seasoned, and 
one bay leaf, one sprig of thyme and 
geranium (minced very fine), three 
chopped carrots, and two onions 
(chopped very fine.) Pour over this 
the Juice of a lemon, let it simmer 
gently for about a half hour, turning 
the veal, that it may cook well and 
be thoroughly penetrated by the juices. 
Put the stuffed mutton feet on top, 
cover closely, and let all simmer for 
a half hour longer. Then unsew the 
mutton feet, lay them on the slices 
of veal, garnish nicely and serve with 
a Sauce d. I'Espagnole, Sauce aux To- 
mates, Sauce aux Gignons, or Sauce 
a, la Provengale. The latter two are 
highly recommended. 



Sheep Tongue Smothered. 

Languea de Mouton BraiB^ea. 

6 Tongues. 1 Large Onion, Cut Fine. 

2 Carrots, Cut Fine. 

1 Herb Bouquet, Minced Very Fine. 

3 Pickles. V4 of a Cup of Capers. 

1 Pint of Boiling Water. 

2 Slices of Bacon. 

Scald and blanch the tongues re- 
moving the skins. Throw them into 
cold water. Dry or lard very deli- 
cately with larding needles. Season 
well with salt and pepper. Slice the 
bacon Into fine strips and lay In the 



92 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIjE COOK BOOK 



bottom of a saucepan; place the lamb 
tongues over this. Place gn top an- 
other thin layer of bacon In very fine 
strips. Add the minced carrots, onion, 
herbs and salt and pepper again to 
taste. Let it simmer for about fifteen 
minutes, and then moisten with about 
a pint of boiling water or broth. Let 
it cook over a slow fire about three 
hours. Then take out the tongues, 
place them on a hot dish, strain the 
sauce through a sieve, set back on the 
stove a few seconds, and add one- 
quarter of a cup of capers, and three 
pickles, sliced fine. Stir well and let 
it boil up once. Pour over the tongues 
and serve. 

Lamb tongues are prepared in the- 
same manner when braised or smoth- 
ered. 

Sheep Brains. 
Cervelle de Mouton. 

U Pound of Brains. 
1 Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 
Grated Breadcrumbs. 

Parsley to Garnish. 

Plunge the brains into cold water 
to disgorge them of all blood and re- 
move the fine skin and veins that 
surround them. Then blanch with 
scalding water. In five minutes take 
them out of the hot water and put 
them into a saucepan and cover with 
cold water. Add a tiny onion sliced 
fine, parsley and a whole bay leaf. 
Let them simmer gently for five min- 
utes. Then take from the fire and 
drain. When cold cut into pieces an 
inch square, dip them in a batter or 
tomato sauce, and then in grated 
bread crumbs, patting gently. Drop 
into boiling lard and fry to a golden 
brown. Take out, drain ofC all grease, 
and serve on a bed of fried parsley. 
A garnish of boiled green peas is also 
very pretty and palatable. 

Sheep Brains, Brown Sauce. 

Cervelle de Mouton, au Beurre Noir 
Prepare the brains in exactly the 
same manner as indicated in the 
above recipe and serve with Brown 
Butter Sauce. (See recipe.) 

Sheep Kidneys. 

Rognona en Brochettea* 

6 Kidneys. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Slice the kidneys very thin and wash 

well, then scald and wipe dry. Pass a 

skewer through each kidney, after 

seasoning well, and brush with melted 

butter. Place on a double broiler 



and cook for five minutes, allowing: 
two and a half minutes to each side. 
Put them on a hot dish and pour over 
them melted butter and a little lemon. 
Garnish nicely with parsley and serve 
hot. 

liAMB. 

Agneau. 
Lamb is in season from April to 
September. Like very young veal, it 
is unwholesome and tasteless if eaten 
too tender. A lamb should always be 
two months old, else it will be what 
the Creoles call **un© viande gelain- 
euse," or a Jelly meat not fit to eat • 
and very difficult to manage. The best 
way to cook lamb is to roast it or bake 
it. The loin of the lamb is cut into 
chops; the brains, tongue, cutlets, ten- 
dons and feet are cooked in the same 
manner as those of sheep, and it 
would be superfluous to repeat the 
recipes. Stewed Lambs' Tongues, or 
"Langues d'Agneaux Sautfees," served 
with a Sauce Tomate, or a Sauce d. la 
Tartare, is an excellent entree, or 
luncheon dish. 

Roast Lamb, Mint Sance. 

Quartier d'Agneau R6ti, Sauce Menthe. 

The Hind Quarter of a Lamb. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Parsley to Garnish. Mint Sauce. 

This Is the standing dish for the 
Easter dinner in New Orleans. Select 
a fine, fresh, white hind-quarter of 
lamb. Rioast in exactly the same 
manner as indicated in "Roast Leg of 
Mutton" (see recipe), only allow 
about twenty minutes to the pound in 
cooking. Serve with garnish of pars- 
ley and a Mint Sauce. (See recipe.) 

Roast Lamb is always served with 
fresh, young green peas and aspara- 
gus tips. 

Roast Lamb k la Beamaise. 

Agneau RCti d la Beamaise. 

The Hind Quarter of a Lamb. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme, Parsley and 

Bay Leaf. 6 Minced Shallots. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Cup of Grated Bread Crumbs. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Parsley and Sliced Lemon to Garnish. 

Select a fine, white hind-quarter of 
the lamb; lard it in the same manner 
as given for larding "Roast Filet of 
Beef." (See recipe.) Rub well with 
butter on top and sprinkle all over 
thickly very soft bread crumbs, 
minced parsley, thyme, bay leaf, salt 
and pepper and minced shallots. Set 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



93 



In the stove and cover with a buttered 
. brown paper. Let it roaat, allowing 
eighteen or twenty minutes to th€ 
pound, in a quick oven, and, wher% 
done, take off the paper, sprinkle 
again lightly with grated bread 
crumbs; let it brown and set in a hot 
dish; sprinkle over it lemon juice; 
garnish the dish with sprigs of parsl^^ 
and sliced lemon, and serve, carving 
in slices and placing a quarter of » 
lemon on each plate. 

Filet of Lamb Roasted and Larded« 

Filet d'Agneau R6ti ct PiquS 

A Filet of Lamb. 

Lard Sufficient to Lard Thoroughly. 

1 Small Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 

4 Cloves, if desired. 

IVi Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Tablespoonful of Glac6. (See recipe.) 

1 Glass of Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Trim the filet nicely, removing the 
outer muscular skin. Lard the filet 
well, using larding needles. The lard 
must be very thin, like a shoestring. 
The larding is done by filling the 
needles with the lard and pushing 
them through the filet as far as they 
will go. If the needles are long enough 
they will come out on the other side 
of the filet, leaving the lard inside. 
Repeat this process all down the cen- 
ter and along the sides of the filet, 
about an inch apart, and have the 
rows neat and even. If you have not 
a larding needle, make incisions with 
a knife and push the lard in with 
your finger, but the filet is never aa 
Juicy and tender, nor does it look so 
clean and even when baked. When 
well larded, dredge well with salt and 
.pepper, rubbing this thoroughly into 
the beef. Cut up one small onion, one 
bay leaf, and mash four cloves, and 
place in the bottom of the baking pan. 
Lay the larded filet on this bed, the 
larded side being uppermost. Put 
small bits of butter equal to a half 
teaspoonful on top, and bake in a 
quick oven thirty minutes. This dish 
is always eaten rare. To ascertain 
If sufficiently done, stick a fork into 
ithe filet; if the blood bubbles out, it 
is ready to serve. The meat, when 
done, is always spongy and elastic to 
the touch. 

In the meantime, prepare the fol- 
lowing Brown Sauce: Take one table- 
spoonful of butter and one of 01ac6 
(see recipe under chapter "Sauces for 
Sleats, Fish, etc.") and three of wa- 



ter, smoothly rubbed, and melt in a 
.saucepan, stirring constantly to pre- 
vent burning. When brown add one 
cup of water. Season well with salt 
and pepper. Pour over the filet, which 
must be placed In a hot dish, and 
serve with fresh, young green peas. 

Filet of Lamb h la B^hamcL 

Filet d'Agneau d la Bichamel 

A Filet of Lamb. 
A Sauce & la Bechamel. 
Roast the lamb as in the manner 
given, and prepare a "Sauce d, la 
BSchamel." (See recipe.) Slice the 
lamb, pour the sauce over it and serve. 
This is considered an excellent entree. 

Brofled Lamb Chops. 

Cotelettes d'Agneau OrilUea. 

6 Lamb Chops. 
Butter, Salt and Pepper. 

Broil in exactly the same manner 
as Mutton Chops, only let them re- 
main a little longer on the griddle, 
until they are firm under pressure of 
a fork. 

Season the chops well with salt and 
pepper and brush with melted butter 
and a few bread crumbs. Have the 
gridiron hot and place the chops upon 
it. In a few seconds turn the chops 
and let the other sides cook. Place 
on a platter, butter thickly, sprinkle 
with chopped parsley, and serve very 
hot. 

Smothered Breast of Lamb. 

Poitrine d* Agneau Braia^e. 

Shoulder and Breast of a Lamb. 

2 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Carrot. 2 Onions. 

1 Clove of Garlic. H Can of Tomatoes. 
A Sprig Each of Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

Bread Crumbs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. Pepper and 

Salt to Taste. 1 Pint of Water. 
Select nice, fresh breast and shoul- 
der of lamb. Have the butcher re- 
move all the bones; wash or wipe 
carefully with a damp towel. Take 
one cup of bread crumbs, which have 
been wet and squeezed, and season 
well with one grated onion, a clove 
of garlic, and chopped parsley, thyme 
and bay leaf and spices to taste. Put 
in a frying pan, with one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, and fry about five min- 
utes. Force this dressing into the 
open side of the lamb, roll it up in 
Its own meat, and tie It very securely 
with thin strips of twine. Slice the 
carrot, onion and turnip very fine, 
and fry in a tablespoonful of butter 
in a deep pan. When brown, add the 



s 



94 



THE PIGATUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



lamb, then cover and let simmer for 
about flfteen minutes. Then add the 
tomatoes and let them brown; then 
add Just enough boiling water to cover 
the meat (one pint); set the pot on 
a slow Are and let it simmer gently 
and steadily for about three hours, or 
according to the size of the roll. Serve 
with the vegetable dished around and 
with its own gravy. 

Minced Lamb. 

Agncau £minc6 

2 Pounds of Cold Minced Lamb. 

% Can of Mushrooms. 

4 Ounces of Butter. % Pint of Veal 

Stock. 
1^ Gills of Cream. Yolk of 2 Eggs. 

Place the butter fti a frying pan; 
add one chopped onion and brown 
sltghtly; add the mushrooms, and 
season to taste. Then add the half 
pint of veal broth, if you have it; if 
not, boiling water or milk, and let it 
simmer a few minutes; thicken with 
a tablespoonful of blended flour; add 
the minced lamb and a gill and a 
half of cream; let all simmer, stirring 
constantly; and when done, which will 
be in about ten minutes, take off tlie 
fire; add the yolks of two eggs, beat- 
en, and stir constantly. Place in a 
hot dish, garnish with Crodtons (but- 
tered) and serve. This is a very nice 
breakfast dish from the left-over 
lamb. 

Kpigram of Lamb. 

tpigramme d* Agncau 

2 Breasts of Lamb. 

1 Tablespoonful of Salt. 

1 Teaspoonful of Pepper. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter or Olive Oil. 

Grated Bread Crumbs. 

Take two breasts of Lamb; tie them 

and put them to boil in soup stock 

for forty-five minutes. Then drain 

well and extract all the bones. Press 

them down with a heavy weight on 

top. When thoroughly cold, cut each 

breast into three triangular-shaped 

pieces, dip them in olive oil, or melted 

lard, or butter, and season with the 

salt and pepper. Roll each piece in 

fresh bread crumbs grated, and broil 

on a slow fire, allowing four minutes 

to each side. Serve with a pint of 

hot Macedoine or any garnish that 

may be desired, arranging the breast 

over the garnish. The epigram may 

be served d. la Soubise with a hot 

Soubise sauce, or a, la Chicor^e with a 

hot chicory sauce and garnish of fried 

sweet potatoes. 



Lamb en Blanqiiette. 

Blanquette d'Agncau. 

3 Pounds of Brisket f of Lamb. 

1 Onion. 2 Carrots. 
% Dozen Cloves. 1 Leek. 

1 Bouquet of Thyme. Parsley and Bay 

Leaf. 
M Pound of Butter. 2 Tablespoonfuls 

Flour. 

The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 

H Can of Mushrooms or Green Peas. 

The brisket of the lamb is best for 
this dish. Cut it Into pieces two 
inches square. Put in a stewpot and 
cover with a half gallon of water, and 
add salt and pepper and two onions 
and one carrot, chopped fine. Let it 
boil till very tender. When it re9.ches 
this stage, take the meat out of the 
saucepan and keep the water in which 
it was boiled. Take another saucepan 
and put & tablespoonful of butter In 
It, and as it melts add a tablespoonful 
of fiour. Let it brown lightly, and 
add one pint of the water in which 
the lamb was boiled. Stir well, mak- 
ing it very light, and not thick. Add 
one-half can of mushrooms, and let 
the whole boil about fifteen minutes, 
so as to be very light. Then put in 
the boiled lamb. Let it simmer for 
about fifteen minutes longer, take it 
off the fire and add the yolks of two 
eggs, well beaten, two tablespoonfuls 
of the gravy, and the Juice of one 
lemon. Serve hot. 

Lamb's Brains. 

Ccrvelle d'Agncau 
The recipes given for Sheep's Brains 
may be used in cooking Lamb's 
Brains, which are. Indeed, a very deli- 
cate dish. The following recipe. 
Lamb's Brains d. la R^moulade, how- 
ever, is a famous Creole dish: 

LamVs Brains k la R^moulade. 

Cervelle d'Agncau d la R6moulade 

6 Lamb's Brains. 

2H Quarts of Water. 2 Cloves of 

Garlic. The Yolks of 4 Eggs. 

2 Shallots. 1 Herb Bouquet. 6 Capers. 

3 Small Vinegar Pickles. 
1 Tablespoonful of Parsley. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Olive OIL 
4 Tablespoonfuls of Vinegar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Creole Mustard. 

% Tablespoonful of Chives. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Plunge the Lamb's Brains into cold 
water, and let them stand for an hour, 
changing the water several times. 
Prepare exactly as Sheep's Brains. 
After removing from the water and 
taking off the skin, drain well. Have 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



95 



ready a saucepan of boiling water and 
season it with salt and pepper and an 
herb bouquet of parsley, bay leaves 
and thyme. When the herbs begrin 
to boil drop in the brains and let them 
cook for ten minutes. Remove the 
herb bouquet, strain the brains 
through a sieve, put them on a hot 
dish and s^rve with the following 
sauce: Chop the shallots very fine, 
mince the garlic and mash the yolks 
of the eggs. Put the vinegar into a 
small saucepan and add the shallots 
and the garlic, letting all boll till tho 
vinegar is reduced about one-half. 
Then mash the yolks of the eggs in 
the sweet oil, cut up the capers and 
add all to the vinegar. Add the pars- 
ley and the vinegar pickles, chopped 
fine, and let all come to a boil. Then 
add the chives and two teaspoonfuls 
of Creole mustard. Mix well and pour 
all over the brains and send to the 
table very hot. 



feet, cut in pieces, removing all the 
bones. Put back in the saucepan, add 
a tablespoonful of butter blended well 
with a tablespoonful of flour. Stir 
well and add two sprigs of parsley, 
minced very flne, and the juice of one 
lemon. Let this simmer for ten min- 
utes longer and serve hot. 

Broiled Lamb's KIdneya 

Roffnona d'Agneau Orill4s. 

6 Kidneys. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. Parsley to 

Garnish. 

Prepare in exactly the same manner 
as in the recipe for broiling Sheep 
Kidneys, and serve with melted butter 
and lemon Juice and chopped parsley, 
thrown over. In all these recipes, 
where the skewer Is used In broiling 
to keep the kidneys from separating, 
the skewer must be drawn out before 
buttering and serving. 



Lamb's Feet. 

Picda d'Agncau. 
The various delightful ways that the 
Creoles have of serving Mutton Feet 
may be used In preparing Lamb's 
Feet, the latter especially making 
many delightful entries. We have 
"Pleds d'Agneau k la Poulette," etc. 
(See recipe for cooking Mutton Feel, 
••Pleds d'Agneau au Blanc," "Pleds 
d'Agneau & la Bourgeoise," etc.) 

Lamb's Feet, White Sauce. 

Pieds d'Agneau, Sauce Blanche, 

12 Lamb's Feet. 

1 Pint of Broth. The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

The Yolk of 1 Egg. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Clean the feet well and boll; take 
out all the bones, cut the meat Into 
little pieces of about two Inches or 
less, season nicely and cook In a pint 
of their own water over a slow Are. 
Add the juice of a lemon and then 
throw In the beaten yolk of an egg to 
bind nicely, and serve hot. 

I 

Lamb's Feet & la Bourgeoise. 

Pieds d'Agneau d la Bourgeoiac. 

12 Lamb's Feet. 1 Pint of Broth. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

2 Sprigs of Parsley. The Juice of 1 

Lemon. 

Clean the feet well and boil as 
above. When tender, take out the 



Stewed Lamb Tongue. 

Langues d'Agneau 8aut6ea. 

6 Tongues. 1 Onion. 
% of a Small Carrot, Cut Fine. 
^ of a Small Turnip, Cut Fine. 

1 Pint of Broth or Water. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of. Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Bay Leaf. 2 Sprigs of Thyme and 

Parsley. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean the tongues; wash well and 
boil in clear' water for an hour and a 
half. Then throw them Into cold water 
and remove the skins. Cut the vege- 
tables fine, and put them with the 
butter into a saucepan. Add a pint 
of broth or water, and then add the 
finely minced herbs. Add the tongues 
and let them simmer gently for two 
hours. Serve hot, with the gravy 
poured over them. 



Lamb Tongues With Tomato Sauce. 

Languea d'Agneau d la Sauce Totnate, 

6 Tongues. 1 Onion. 

1 Pint of Broth or Water. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

2 Sprigs of Thyme. 
A Tomato Sauce. 

Cook the tongue as in the recipe 
given above, omitting, of course, the 
vegetables. When done, place the 
tongues on a hot dish, pour over them 
a rich Tomato Sauce (see recipe) and 
serve. 



96 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIjE CX>0K B€K>K 



CHAPTER XV 




Du Cochon. 



The old Creoles, like their French 
ancestors, hold that every portion of 
the hog is good, from the head to the 
feet, and all portions are utilized in 
the various dishes which are prepared 
in New Orlean*. For roasting, the 
Creoles always use the delicate 
"Cochon de Lait," or suckling pig, if 
not more nor less than four or Ave 
weeks old, when the pig is roasted 
whole; otherwise the best parts of 
the grown hog for roasting are the 
loin and the leg. Pork chops or cut-, 
lets are taken from the loin. They 
are used as entries, as are also slices 
of cold ham; the kidneys, cooked in 
wine, and the tails brais^es or -smoth- 
ered. 

Pork must always be cooked well 
done, or else it will be dangerous, un- 
wholesome and indigestible. It must 
be roasted or fried. 

Roast Lioin of Pork. 

Longe de Pore Rotie. 

A Loin of Pork. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Parsley to Garnish. Apple Sauce. 

Score the loin in close lines across 
and down. The lines should be about 
a half inch apart. Dredge well with 
salt and pepper and place in the oven, 
letting it cook slowly and long, allow- 
ing at least twenty-five minutes to 
every pound, and basting every five 
minutes for the first half hour and 
every ten minutes thereafter. Pork 
must always be well done. When 
cooked thoroughly, take out of the 
baking pan, put in a hot serving dish, 
and garnish nicely with parsley. Serve 
with Apple Sauce and a little horse- 
radish. (See recipe "Sauces for 
Meats," etc.) 

.Roast Pork. 

Pore R6ti. 
The leg and shoulder may be 
roasted in the same manner as the 
loin, allowing from twenty to twenty- 
five minutes to a pound in cooking. 



Roast Pig Stuffed. 

Cochon de Lait R6ti et Farci. 

1 Pig, Four or Five Weeks Old. 

3 Large Onions. 2 Cups of Bread 

Crumbs. 

3 Sprigs of Chopped Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

2 Ounces of Butter. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Powdered Sage. 

3 Hard-Boiled Eggs. 
1 Herb Bouquet. 

In New Orleans the pig is always 
sold killed and cleaned by the butcher. 
Wash the young pig well, cleaning 
again, and scraping thoroughly thus 
taking out all remaining hair from 
the ears and nostrils. Wash again 
thoroughly in cold water, inside and 
out, shaking the pig vigorously, head 
downward. Then turn upwards and 
pour cold water over it. Wipe dry 
inside and out with a coarse towel, 
and then rub well inside with salt and 
pepper and minced parsley, thyme 
and bay leaf. Prepare a dressing as 
follows: Wet the bread crumbs and 
squeeze thoroughly. Then add the 
sprigs of minced parsley and hard- 
boiled eggs and the powdered sage. 
Mix well. Season all highly with black 
pepper and salt, using about a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a half teaspoon- 
ful of black pepper. Place two ounces 
of butter, which will be equal to two 
tablespoonfuls, in a frying pan on the 
stove, and, when it melts, add the 
minced onions. Let them brown, and 
then add the dressing, stirring well, 
and letting it fry for five minuter. 
Take it oft, stuff the pig and sew up 
the opening. Truss the fore legs 
backward and the hind feet forward, 
close under the body. Wipe the pig 
carefully with a damp towel, and 
then place a corn cob in its mouth to 
keep it open. Rub the pig all over 
thoroughly with butter, dredging 
lightly with salt and pepper. Place 
in a moderate oven, and bake steadily 
for two and a half or three hours, 
according to size and age. Baste fre- 
quently, and, when half done, rub 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIjE COOK BOOK 



97 



airain with butter until the pan is sat- 
urated. Continue basting at intervals. 
When done, take out of the oven and 
place on a hot dish. Garnish the 
dish with parsley. Take the corncob 
out of the mouth and substitute a 
nice, rosy apple. Serve very hot, with 
Apple Sauce. (See recipe "Sauces for 
Meats," etc.) 

Sweet potatoes are a nice vegetable 
to serve with roast pig. Boil a half 
dozen first and then peel carefully and 
place them whole, about fifteen min- 
utes before serving the pig, in the 
pan where it is roasting; let them 
soak in the gravy, brown nicely and 
serve on a separate platter or as a 

garnish. 

• 

Roast Spare Ribs. 

Cotelettet de Pore Rotiet. 

Spare Ribs. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
A Garnish of Parsley and Radish. 

Dredge the spare ribs lightly with 
salt and pepper, after having washed 
well and wiped dry with a coarse 
towel. Place them in the baking pan 
and dredge with butter; place them 
In the oven and cover with a piece of 
buttered paper. Allow twenty min- 
utes to every pound in cooking. About 
twenty minutes before serving take 
off the buttered paper, dredge again, 
with melted butter, and let them 
brown nicely. Serve with a garnish 
of parsley and radishes. 

If it is desired to stuft the spare 
ribs, have the ribs cracked, crosswise, 
the entire length, in two places. Put 
a stuffing, as for roast pig, in the cen- 
ter, or a stuffing made of mashed po- 
tatoes and three hard-boiled eggs> 
mixed thoroughly. Close the ends of 
the ribs over this, tie well and roast 
as for a roast pig. Serve with an 
Apple Sauce or a Sauce Piquante. (See 
recipes "Sauces for Meats," etc.) 

Pork Tenderloins. 

Fileta de Pore 8aut6a. 

4 Pork Tenderloins. 
A Tablespoonful of Lard. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Have the tenderloins cut thin and 
spit lengthwise -without separating. 
Season well with salt and pepper. 
Have ready a very hot frying pan, 
place a tablespoonful of butter or lard 
in it and add the tenderloins. Turn 
every two minutes, not leaving them 
very long on either side at a time. 
Be careful to cook through an<^ 



throUejh, smothering over a low fire, 
and serve with Apple Sauce qr Cur- 
rant Jelly. (See recipes "Sauces for 
Meats," etc.) 

Fried Pork Chops. 

Cotelettes de Cochon d la Po^le, 

6 or 8 Pork Chops. 

Grated Bread Crumbs. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wash the pork chops and season 
well with salt and pepper. Roll in 
grated bread crumbs and fry in boil- 
ing lard twenty-five minutes. This 
will be when they have reached a 
rich brown. Take out, place on a 
platter, and serve with pickles or a 
Sauce aux Cornichons. (See recipe.) 

Plg*s Feet. 

Pieda de Cochon, 

6 Pig's Feet. 2 Bay Leaves. 
3 Blades of Mace. 1 Dozen Whole 

Cloves 

1 Whole Red Pepper Pod. 

1 Pint of Good Cider Vinegar. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Select young and tender pig's feet. 
Clean and scrape well and soak in 
cold water several hours. Split and 
crack the feet in several places; put 
them in a stewpot; cover with cold 
water and let them simmer until ten- 
der. When done, lay in a crock. Boil 
the vinegar, mace, cloves and bay 
leaves and pepper pod together a few 
minutes. Season the feet with salt 
and pepper, and pour the spiced vine- 
gar over while boiling. Cover the 
crock and set to cool. The feet will 
be ready for use in twenty-four hours. 

Pig's Feet, Sauce Robert. 

Pieda de Cochon d la Sauce Robert, 

3 Pig's Feet. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter or Olive Oil. 

1 Tablespoonful of Salt. 

H Tablespoonful of Pepper. 

Grated Bread Crumbs. Vi Pint of Sauce 

Robert. 

Boil three good-sized Pig's Feet in 
salted water, and, when. tender, take 
out and drain thoroughly. Split the 
feet in two, place them in a dish and 
season well with salt and pepper. 
Then rub them with the olive oil or 
butter; roll in grated bread crumbs 
and put them to broil, allowing four 
minutes to each side of the feet. Pre- 
pare a hot Sauce k la Robert (see 
recipe), and pour this sauce in a warm 
dish. Lay the feet nicely over it and 
send to the table hot. 



98 



tite: picayune creole cxx>k boosl 



PlfiT's Feet, Piquant Sauce. 

Pieda de Cochon d la Sauce Piquantc. 

Prepare In exactly the manner di- 
rected above, and, after broiling the 
feet, serve with a half pint of Sauce 
Piquant. (See recipe.) 

Pi^'s Feet, Tomato Sance. 

Pied$ de Cochon d la Sauce Tomatc. 

Boil and prepare the feet as In 
recipe for '^Pig's Feet. Sauce Robert," 
and serve with a half pint of hot To- 
mato Sauce. 



three thin slices of truffles. Wrai> 
the crepinettes up in some fanciful 
shape, such as an envelope or card 
case, and dip them separately in a. 
"'ell b ten egg, and then in grated 
bread crumbs. Put two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter In a deep frying part, 
put In the feet, cover closely, and let: 
all cook on a slow fire for tw^enty- 
five minutes, allowing twelve minutes 
and a half to each side. Serve witti 
a pint of hot P^rigueux Sauce. (See 
recipe.) Place the sauce in a dish, 
lay the feet neatly over it, and send 
to the table hot. 



Pig's Feet, Tartar Sauce. 

Pieda de Cochon d la Sauce Tartare. 

Prepare the feet as Indicated in the 
recipe for "Pig's Feet, Sauce Robert," 
and serve with a half pint of Sauce 
& la Tartare. (See recipe.) 

Pig's Feet, St. Hubert Style. 

Pieda de Cochon d la St. Hubert. 

Prepare the feet as In the recipe for 
"Pig's Feet, Sauce Robert," and serve 
with a half pint of hot Piquant Sauce, 
to which has been added a teaspoon- 
ful of Creole mustard, diluted. 

Stuffed Pig's Feet k la P^rlgueux. 

Pieda dc Cochon d la P^rlgueux. 

3 Pig's Feet. 

2 Minced TruflHes. 

1 Pound of Boned Turkey Forcemeat. 

6 Pieces of Cr^pinette. 

1 Egg. 

2 Ounces of Butter. 

H Pint of Hot P6rlgueux Sauce. 

Boil the Pig's Feet, and then split 
them in two; take out the bones, lay 
the flesh on a dry, clean cloth and 
wipe w^ell. Make a forcemeat of 
boned turkey (see recipe under chap- 
ter Stuflflngs for Fowls, etc.); add the 
truflles, which have been finely 
minced. Mix this well together. 
Crepinette is a kind of skin found 
in the stomach of the pig. Take six 
pieces of this crepinette, which you 
can easily buy from the butcher; 
cut them the size of a man's hand and 
lay on a clean biscuit board; place on 
each piece of skin a portion of the 
forcemeat about the size of a hen's 
f^gg and flatten out well. Place one- 
half of a pig's foot on top of this 
farcie, and cover with another layer 
of the stufiing. On either side lay 



Hogshead Cheese. 

« From age dc Cochon. 

1 Hog's Head. 1 Lemon. 
1 Slice of Ham. 
2 Onions. 
Thyme. Bay Leaf, Spices. 

Boll the whole hog's head which 
has been already well cleaned and 
scraped. Add four teaspoonfuls of 
salt, and a lemon cut in half. After 
four hours, when the head will have 
become very tender, take out of the 
water and set to cool. Then skin the 
meat from the head, and save the 
water in which it has been boiled. 
Cut up the entire head, ears and 
tongue and two of the feet. If you 
have boiled them, too. Into pieces of 
about one inch in length. Take two 
large onions and chop them very fine. 
Put a tablespoonful of lard and the 
onions Into a pot. Slightly smother 
them without browning. Season well 
with minced thyme, three mashed 
cloves, a dash of red pepper (Poivre 
Rouge). Add a teaspoonful of the 
water in which the head was boiled. 
Let this simmer gently; then add one 
pint of the same water, the peel of a 
large lemon, cut fine, and hot pepper 
to taste, seasoning highly. Boil well. 
Then add the head and a slice of 
ham, cut into pieces of about one inch 
long and a half inch wide. Season 
to taste, and add five powdered all- 
spices, one blade of chopped mace and 
three mashed cloves. Let it boll for 
a half hour longer, till It comes to the 
right consistency. When cooked, fill 
a bowl with the cheese and put a 
close-fitting dish on top, and then 
place a piece of plank over this and 
set a big weight (about fifteen 
pounds) or three or four flatlrons on 
top. When the cheese cools, which 
will be in about five or six hours, turn 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



99 



It out of the bowl. It will have taken 
the shape of the bowl and become a 
fine head of cheese, ready to be 
served. 

Salt Meat. 

Viande Salie. 

Salt pork enters so largrely Into 
cooking that it is not necessary to 
devote special attention to it here. 
It is used in cooking cabbage and 
pork and beans — a most excellent 
dish for children — ^and with nearly all 
green herbs and vegetables it serves 
as a delightful flavor. In the chapter 
on vegetables, where it is advisable 
to use salt or pickled pork» this sub- 
ject will be treated. 



Pickled Pork. 

Petit 8al4, 

Coarse Salt Sufflcient to Make a Brine. 

12 Bay Leaves. 

2 Dozen Onions. 

25 Pounds of Pork. 1 Ounce of Saltpetre. 

12 Cloves. 6 Allspice. 

Pork should be pickled about twen- 
ty hours after killng. It is pickled ai- 
r/ays in sutHcient quantity to last for 
some time, for, if proper care is tak- 
en, it will keep one year after pick- 
ling; but it may also be pickled in 
smaller quantities, of three or four 
pounds at a tme, reducing other in- 
gredients in the recipe according to 
quantity of pork used. To twenty-five 
pounds of pork allow one ounce of 
saltpetre. Pulverize carefully and 
mix with a sufficient quantity of salt 
to thoroughly salt the pork. Cut the 
pork into pieces of about two pounds, 
and slash each piece through the skin, 
and then rub carefully with the salt 
and saltpetre mixture till the meat 
is thoroughly penetrated through and 
through. Mash the cloves very fine 
and ground the allspice. Chop the 
onions. Wash a small barrel and place 
at the bottom a layer of salt, then a 
layer of coarsely chopped onions, and 
sprinkle over this a layer of the spices 
and minced bay leaves. Place on this 
a layer of the pork; pack tightly; 
then place above this a layer of the 
salt and seasonings and continue with 
alternate layers of pork and season- 
ings till all the pork is used up. Fin- 
ish with a layer of the minced herbs 
and spices and have a layer of salt 
on top. Cover the ingredients with 
a board on which a heavy weight 



must be placed to press down the 
meat. It will be ready for use in 
about ten or twelve days. 

HAM. 

Jamhon. 

• 

Ham is one of the most convenient 
kinds of food that can be kept in any 
household. In case of unexpected 
company for lunch or supper, the 
ham is always ready and sure to be 
appetizing. It forms combinations in 
many dishes, and is in itself a delight- 
ful breakfast dish and dinner entree. 

Fried Ham. 

Jamhon Bouilli. 

A Ham. 2 Blades of Mace. 

1 Dozen Cloves. 

4 Bay Leaves. 

Black Pepper and Parsley to Garnish. 

Wash the ham well In cold water, 
scraping ott all portions of mold or 
salt. Have a large boiler of water on 
the stove. Throw in two blades of 
mace, a dozen cloves and three or 
four bay leaves. Put the ham in the 
water and let the fire be slow, allow- 
ing the water to heat gradually. Do 
not permit it to come to a good boil 
for two hours at least, and be care- 
ful to skim regularly and often. Keep 
it always simmering gently, allowing 
twenty minutes to every pound. When 
done, let the ham cool in its own 
liquor, and then put it on a board, 
cover it with another board, and lay 
a weight on it. Leave it under the 
weight several hours. (This will en- 
able you to cut it in thin .slices after 
removing the weight.) Thon care- 
fully cut off the skin without taking 
off the fat. Sprinkle it in patches 
with black pfepper and ornament the 
shank bone with quilled paper, or a 
paper frill. Serve it cold with a gar- 
nish of parsley. Cold boiled ham 
should be sliced very thin and eaten 
with pickles and mustard. 

Fried Ham. 

Jamhon Frit. 

8 Thin Slices of Ham. 

Pepper to Taste. 

Parsley to Garnish. 

Slice the ham thin. Heat the fry- 
ing pan very hot. Lay in the ham in 
its own fat and fry over a quick fire. 
Allow an egg to every slice of ham. 
After taking the ham out of the pan. 



100 



THE PI€AYUN£ CREOIiE CXX>K BOOK 



drop in the eggs. If you do not like 
egrgs fried on both sides (many pre- 
fer them so), baste the eggs with the 
hot grease, and be sure to cook the 
yolks whole. When they are well 
set, without being hard, take the 
eggs out and lay one on each slice of 
ham. Garnish with parsley. Sprinkle 
the eggs with salt and pepper very 
lightly and serve. 

If eggs are not served with the fried 
ham, and a gravy is desired, make 
one as follows: Take one tablespoon- 
ful of flour and add to the remaining 
fat in the pan. Mix well until smooth. 
Add a half pint of milk and stir until 
it boils; throw in a dash of black 
pepper, pour over the ham and send 
to the table hot. 



Broiled Hain. 

Jamhon QrilU. 

6 or 8 Thin Slices of Boiled Ham. 
6 or 8 Slices of Buttered Toast. 

Always use boiled ham for broiling. 
Slice it about a half inch thick, ac- 
cording to the number to be served, 
and trim ofiC the rough edges. Have 
the broiler very hot, lay the slices of 
ham upon it and brown well. Serve 
with buttered toast. 



Broiled Ham With Cucumber Garnish. 

Jamlyon OriU6 auw Concombrcs, 

€ or 8 Slices of Boiled Ham. 
Pepper. Cucumbers. 

Cut thin as many slices of ham as 
desired apd broil evenly over hot 
coals. When very well browned dust 
it over with pepper, and serve gar- 
nished with slices of cucumber that 
have been steeped in salted vinegar 
several hours. 



Ham Croquettes. 

Croquettes de Jamhon. 

2 Cups of Finely Chopped Boiled Ham. 
2 Cups of Mashed Potatoes. 

The Yolks of 3 Eggs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Cream. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

A Dash of Cayenne. 

Chop the ham fine and add to the 
mashed potatoes. Then add the cream 
and butter and the yolks of two eggs, 
beaten well. Beat all together until 
smooth, then add a dash of Cayenne. 
Mold the ham into cylinder shapes of 
about a finger in length and roll in 
the third yolk well beaten. Then roll 



in grated bread crumbs and fry the 
cones in the boiling fat. 

Ham puffs are made in the same 
way, only the potatoes are omitted, 
and a stift batter is used instead, 
made of one pint of Hour and one of 
water, three eggs and four ounces of 
finely chopped ham. The ham is 
placed in the batter and fried in boil- 
ing lard to a golden brown. 

Ham Souffle 

SouffU de Jamhon. 

1 Cup of Minced Ham. 

3 Eggs, Beaten with the Whites and 

Yolks Separate. 

1 Teaspoonful of Finely Chopped 

Parsley. 

Pepper to Taste. 

Mix together the chopped parsley, 
ham and yolks of eggs and a dash of 
Cayenne pepper. Beat all very hard 
till it becomes light. Then add the 
whites of the eggs, which have been 
beaten to a froth. Beat together suf- 
ficiently to mix well. Fill a dish and 
bake in an oven for eight or ten min- 
utes and serve with a Cream Sauce. 
(See recipe.) 

Boiled Bacon. 

Petit SaU BouillU 
Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as .for boiled ham. 

Fried Bacon. 

Petit SaU Frit. 
Cut into very thin slices, put in the 
frying pan and fry to a nice golden 
brown. This is a fine breakfast dish. 

Creole Sausage. 

Sauciaaea d la Creole. 
It has been said by visitors to New 
Orleans that the Creoles excell other 
cooks in preparing appetizing sau- 
sages. From the old Creole negresses. 
who used to go about in the early 
morning crying out "Belles Sau- 
cisses!" "Belle Chaurice!" to the 
"Boudlns" and '•Saucissons" so tempt- 
ingly prepared by the Creole butchers 
in the French Market, the Creole sau- 
sage enters largely into domestic 
cooking and forms a delightful flavor 
for many dainty dishes, especially of 
the vegetable order, while in the 
preparation of the famous "Jam- 
balaya," the "Chaurice" is one of the 
most necessary and indispensable in- 
gredients. 



THE PICAYUNC CREOIjE COOK BOOK 



101 



Chaurlcc. 

4 Pounds of Lean, Fresh Pork. 
'2 Pounds of Fat Fresh Pork. 

2 Large Onions, Minced Very Fine. 
1 Clove of Garlic, Minced Very Fine. 

1 Teaspoonful of Cayenne Pepper and 

Chili Pepper (very hot). 

1 Teaspoonful of Red Pepper. 

3 Teaspoonfuls of Salt. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Finely Ground Black 

Pepper. 
1 SpriiT of Thyme, Well Minced. 

3 Sprigrs of Parsley, Finely Minced. 
2 Bay Leaves, Chopped or Minced Very 

Fine. 
% Teaspoonful of Allspice, Very Fine. 

Hash the pork as fine as possible — 
fat and lean — and mix together. Then 
season highly with the salt, the black 
pepper and Cayenne, Chill and red 
pepper (pimento). This high season- 
ing distinguishes the Creole sausage 
from all others. Chaurice must be 
seasoned very hot, so do not fear to 
have too much red pepper. Mince the 
onion and garlic as fine as possible, 
then add to the Chaurice. Mince the 
herbs as fine as possible, and add, and 
then mix the finely ground spices 
thoroughly with the Chaurice. Hash 
all togetl;er, and when well mixed, 
take the casings (the Creoles always 
use the entrails of the sheep for this 
purpose) that have been well cleaned 
by the butcher. Scald them and wash 
thoroughly again. Dry them and fill 
with the mixture, tying them in the 
lengrths you desire. 

Chaurice Is fried In boiling lard for 
breakfast, always having sufficient to 
have the sausage swim In It, then 
serve, after draining of all grease, 
on a hot dish with minced parsley 
thrown over as a garnish. It Is used 
most extensively In making "Jam- 
balaya," and a few Chaurice thrown 
Into the pot of boiling cabbage or 
beans add greatly to the flavor. 



Chaurice With Creole Sauce. 

Chaurice, Sauce d la Cr6olc. 

2 Pounds of Chaurice (about 6 to a 

pound). 

1 Clove of Minced Garlic. 

% Can of Tomatoes. 1 Teaspoonful of 

Salt. 

1 Teaspoonful of Black Pepper. 

1 Large Onion. ^ Spoon of Lard. 

Place a half teaspoonful of lard in 
the frying pan or stewpan, and when 
It heats add the chopped onion. Let 
this brown slightly and then add the 
minced garlic. Then add the half 
can of tomatoes. As this browns put 
In the sausage which you have 
pricked gently. Cover and let them 



simmer for about five minutes, then 
add the seasonings to taste. Add 
about a half cup of boiling water. 
Cover well and let all simmer for 
twenty minutes longer. 

Chaurice With Pur6e of Potatoes. 

Chaurce d la Purie de Pomme$ de Terre. 

2 Pounds of Chaurice. 
4 Irish Potatoes. 1 Egg, Well Beaten. 

Prick the sausages and lay them in 
the bottom of a pan. Make a soft 
Purde of Potatoes (see recipe) and 
pour this over the sausage. Then 
spread a beaten egg very evenly on 
top, sprinkle with bread crumbs, and 
place in the oven and let it bake a 
half hour. This is a i^ce breakfast 
or luncheon dish. 

Sauclsses. 

Saucisses, unlike Chaurice, are 
made from pork, veal and beef mixed 
together. Take 

2 Pounds of Lean Beef. 

2 Pounds of Lean Pork. 

1 Pound of Lean Veal. 1 Pound of Fat 

Pork. 
2 Large Onions. Minced Very Fine. 

2 Cloves of Garlic. 

1 Teaspoonful of Cayenne Pepper. 

1 Tablespoonful of Black Pepper. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Salt. 

3 Bay Leaves, Minced Very Fine. 

V^ Spoon Each of Ground Cloves. Mace, 

Allspice and Grated Nutmeg. 

1 Teaspoonful Each of Minced Thyme 

and Sweet Marjoram. 

Chop and hash the meat (fat and 
lean) very fine, mincing it, and then 
seasoning highly with salt, pepper 
and Cayenne, mixing well. Add the 
minced onion and garlic, mix well, 
and then add the finely minced herbs 
and spices. Mix thoroughly and fill 
the casings (which you have bought 
from the butcher and washed again 
thoroughly) carefully with the mix- 
ture, in lengths of about two feet or 
one foot and a half, stufiflng tightly. 
Tie at both ends and let them stand 
overnight In a deep brine. Take out 
as much as desired, wipe dry and cut 
into slices and fry, or fry the sau- 
sage, the whole lengfth, in boiling lard, 
and then slice nicely. Garnish with 
chopped parsley and serve. 

Saucissons. 

Sauclssons are sausage made from 
the lean, fine flesh of the pork and 
the filet of beef. Take 



102 



THE PICAYLNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



2 Pounds of Fresh Pork, Very Lean. 

1 Pound of Fat. 
2 Pounds of Filet of Beef. 1 Lar^e 

Onion. 
1 Teaspoonful of Cayenne Pepper. 
, 1 Teaspoonlul of Black Pepper. 
3 Teaspoonfuls of Salt. 
1 Bay Leaf, Chopped Fine. 
^ Teaspoonful Each of Ground All- 
spice, Cloves, and ^ Nutmegr. 
^ Teaspoonful Each of Fine Herbs. 
1 Clove of Garlic. 

Mince and hash the meat very fine, 
mixingr the beef and pork and fat. 
Then season highly with the Cayenne, 
salt and pepper, mixingr thoroughly. 
Season next with the minced onion 
and garlic; mix well, and then with 
the minced herbs and spices, mixing 
all thoroughly. Fill the casings, 
which are never very large for Sau- 
cissons. Tie them in sausages of 
about a finger in length, or three 
Inches, and they are ready to be 
cooked. Saucissons are always fried 
In boiling lard and served whole, 
placing several on each plate. 

Boudlns. 

Boudins are blood sausages and are 
much affected by the Creoles. Take 

1 Pound of Hog or Beef Blood (1 pint). 

% Pound of Hog Fat. 2 Onions. 
Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Season 

Highly. 
% Clove of Garlic. 

Mince the onions fine and fry them 
slightly in a small piece of the hog 
fat. Add the minced garlic. Hash 
and mince the remaining fat very fine, 
and mix it thoroughly with the beef 
blood. Mix the onions, and then sea- 
son highly, adding of allspice, mace, 
clove and nutmeg a half teaspoonful 
each, finely ground, and a half tea- 
spoonful each of fine herbs. When all 
is mixed, fill the prepared casings, or 
entrails, pressing them full, being 
careful to tie the sausage ca.slng at the 
further end before attempting to fill. 
Then tie the other end, making the 
sausage Into strings about two feet 
long. Wassh them thoroughly on the 
outside again, and then tie them in 
spaces of three inches or less in 
length. Place them to cook in a pot 
of tepid water, never letting them 
boll, as that would curdle the 
blood. Let them remain on a slow 
fire till you can prick the sausage 
with a needle and no blood will exude. 
Then take them out, let them dry and 
cool. 

Boudlns are always fried in boiling 
lard. Some broil them, however. 



Bondins Blancs. 

1 Pound of the White Meat of Fowl 

(left over). 

1 Pound of Lean Pork. 1 Pound of 

Fat Pork. 1 Pint of Cream. 

% Cup of Soft Bread. 

The Tolks of 2 Eggs. 

^ Teaspoon of Ground Spices. 

Vi Clove of Garlic. 

1 Onion. 1 Teaspoonful Cayenne. 

Salt and Pepper, 1 Teaspoonful Each. 

Cut the meat and mince. Season 
highly with the salt and pepper and 
Cayenne. Add the minced onion and 
garlic. Mix well with half a cup of 
soft bread, wet and squeezed -very- 
well. Cook all for about fifteen min- 
utes In one pint of cream. When re- 
duced take off the stove, add the 
beaten yolks of two eggs, stir well 
and cool. Fill the prepared entrails, 
tying both ends, and place them In a 
pot containing half milk and half 
water. Boil them for about twenty 
minutes and then prick gently, place 
In buttered papers and broil gently. 
The left-overs of rabbit, chicken, tur- 
key, partridge and other birds may 
be prepared in this manner, as also 
the left-overs of crawfish or crabs. 
This is a Creole hors d'oeuvre. 

Chittcrlln^^s. 

AndouUles, 

2 Pounds of Fat Pork. 2 Pounds of 

Lean Pork. 
1 Pound of Inner Lining of Stomach 

of Hog. 

2 Cloves of Garlic. 3 Bay Leaves. 

2 Large Onions. 

1 Tablespoonful Each of Salt and 

Pepper. 1 Teaspoonful of Cayenne. 

1 Teaspoonful of Chill Pepper. 

^ Teaspoonful Each of Mace, Cloves 

and Allspice, ground fine. 

1 Tablespoonful Each of Minced Thyme. 

Sweet Marjoram and Parsley. 

Select the largest intestines of the 
hog, wash thoroughly two or three 
times and let them soak for twenty- 
four hours in fresh water, chang- 
ing the water frequently. Then 
drain and dry well. Cut them Into 
threadlike pieces of about one Inch 
in lengrth, and hash the pork, lean 
and fat together; mix thoroughly 
with the threads of intestines or Inner 
stomach of the hog, and season highly 
with the salt, pepper and Cayenne 
and Chill pepper. Mince the onion 
and garlic and herbs as fine as possi- 
ble and add to the meat. Add the 
ground spices and mix and hash all 
together very fine. Take six or eight 
of the large inte.stlnes that have been 
thoroughly soaked and cleansed and 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



103 



after scalding: and drying: the casings 
thoroughly fill them with the pork 
mixture. Tie Into the desired leng:ths 
and use as needed. This Is a 
very fat sausage and entirely too 
rich for delicate stomachs. When 
tied into large sausages about the 
size of the hand they are called 
"AndouiUes." When tied into small 



sausages they are styled "Andouil- 
lettes." The latter are the more deli- 
cate. This sausage is generally served 
with mashed potatoes, a pur^e of peas 
or lentils. The chitterlings are first 
boiled In an aromatic water, with an 
herb bouquet, or in milk; they arc 
then broiled, or baked in the oven 
for eight pr ten minutes. 



CHAPTER XVI. 



/^POULTRY^^ 



De la Tolaille. 



Hoast chicken, roast turkey, roast 
goose, roast duck are welcome dishes 
on every table. The entries that are 
made from poultry are various, such 
as Turkey Daube, Fricassees of 
Chicken, with truflfles, mushrooms, 
green peas, rice; RagOuts of Ducks, 
Chapons au Gros Sel, Poulardes d. la 
Sauce Tartare, Poulet Saut6 a. la Cr6- 
ole, all manner of croquettes and sal- 
ads, and goose entree H la Chipolata. 
Full-grown poultry always has the 
best flavor. 

TURKEY. 

Dinde. 

The turkey hen is called "dinde," 
the turkey gobbler "dindon." The 
preference in eating is always given 
to the "dinde," as the "dindons" never 
make quite such excellent dishes. 

Turkey may bo roasted, stewed or 
made Into gumbo. Only a very old 
and lean turkey is ever stewed. It is 
utilized in this way as a home dish, 
never on the company table. The 
boned turkey is the triumph of the 
New Orleans cuisine when serving 
cold turkey. No great reception or 
buffet luncheon is complete without it. 

Roast Turkey. 

Dinde ROtie. 

1 Turkey. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter, 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Dressing According to Taste. 

A hen turkey is always best for 
roasting. Clean and prepare the tur- 
key. Make a nice stuffing either of 
oysters, egg, truffles or chestnuts (see 
Dressings for Fowls). Rub the tur- 



key well with salt and pepper inside 
and out, and then rub the inside with 
butter, using about a half teaspoonful. 
StufC first the space from which you 
took out the craw and then sew up 
the slit in the skin, fastening the skin 
by a piece of thread tied around the 
neck or folding it over and fastening 
with a small skewer. Then stuff the 
body of the turkey. Push the legs 
under the skin near the rump, cross 
them and fasten them with a small 
skewer or tie with a piece of twine. 
Turn the wings back, under the body 
of the fowl. Rub the turkey all over 
with butter or lard, and place in the 
baking pan that has been greased 
lightly. Bake the turkey in a quick 
oven, allowing about fifteen minutes 
to every pound. Baste every ten min- 
utes or so with its own drippings. 
When done, remove the twine and the 
skewer and place on a hot dish, gar- 
nished nicely with parsley, and serve. 
The turkey breast should always bo 
carved in delicate slices. 

In making the dressing of any kind, 
always take up the liver and heart, 
which you have seasoned well and 
minced very fine, and add to the tur- 
key dressing, mixing thoroughly. 

Roost Turkey With Truffles. 

Dinde Truffic RCtie. 

1 Fine Young Hen Turkey. 

1 Pound of Lean Ham. Cut into Dice. 

2 Pounds of Truffles. ^4 Nutmeg. 

% of a Teaspoonful of Pepper. 

1 Bay Leaf, Minced Fine. 

Clean and prepare the turkey for 

roasting as directed in the above rec- 



104 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



ipe. Put a saucepan on the fire and 
put In the ham cut Into dice. When 
hot add two pounds of the very best 
truffles and the grated nutmeg, the 
pepper and a minced bay leaf. Stir 
over the fire for about fifteen minutes. 
Then take off and let cool. When it 
is cold stuff the place at the neck 
of the turkey where the craw was. 
and sew up well and arrange as 
indicated in the directions for dress- 
ing a turkey. Stuff the body of the 
turkey with the remainder of the 
truffles and sew it up and truss it. 
Set it in the oven and roast accord- 
ing to the above recipe, serving with 
a Sauce aux Truffes. This is a very 
expensive dish. 

Roast Turkey With Moshrooms. 

Proceed in the above manner, sub- 
stituting mushrooms instead. 

Turkey WiUi Chestnuts or Oysters. 

Dinde R6tie Farcie aux Marrons ou auw 

Huitrea. 

Prepare thQ turkey in the manner 
Indicated in "Roast Turkey*'; stuff 
according to taste with ^either a Chest- 
nut or Oyster Dressing (see recipes 
under chapter "Stuffings and Dress- 
ings for- Poultry, Game," etc.) and 
cook as in recipe for "Roast Turkey." 
Chestnut and Oyster Stuffings are fa- 
vorite Creole dressings for turkeys. 

Turkey en Daube. 

Dinde en Dauhe. 

1 LArge Turkey. 

1 Bunch Each of Parsley, Thyme and 

Small Celery Leaves. 

Large Slice of Salt Pork. 

2 Onions and 2 Carrots, Sliced. 

10 Cloves. Vi Calf's Foot. 

1 Clove of Garlic. Bouquet of Sweet 

Herbs. 
1% Pints of Broth or Boiling Water. 

Clean and prepare the turkey as in 
the above directions, then stuff either 
with egg dressing or oyster stuffing. 
Rub well with salt and pepper. Place 
at the bottom of a deep pot slender 
strips of salt pork and half of a calf's 
foot, well prepared. Place on top of 
this the slices of onions, carrot, fine 
herbs, minced nicely; garlic, minced, 
celery, parsley, etc., and lay the tur- 
key on this bed. Pour over it one 
quart of good broth or boiling water. 
Season well to taste and cover tightly. 
Set on the stove to simmer very slow- 
ly for at least five hours if the turkey 



is old. Turn it once very carefully 
when half cooked. After five hours 
lift the turkey out of the -sauce, 
place 6n a hot dish, strain the sauce 
through a sieve, and serve hot in a 
separate dish. If not to be used at 
once, pour it over the turkey and set 
it away to cool. It will become quite 
Jellied and makes an excellent lunch- 
eon dish. 

Boned Turkey. 

Galantine Truffie d la Oel6e. 

1 Toung Turkey Hen. 

2 Pounds of Touner Veal. 

1 Pound of Fat Fresh Pork. 

1 Pound of Lean Fresh Pork. 

M Pound of Gelatine. 

M. Can of Truffles. 

1 Tablespoonful Each of Hinced 

Parsley and Thyme. 

3 Minced Bay Leaves. 1 Lemon. 

8 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

2 Carrots. 1 Turnip. 1 Stalk of Celery. 

2 Gallons of Water. 
H Teaspoonful Each of Grated Cinna- 
mon and Allspice. 

For this highly prized dish, select 
a young hen turkey. It must be 
hand-picked — that is, it must not be 
scalded, or it will be unfit for the 
purpose of boning:. Clean it thor- 
oughly, put it on the table, breast 
down, and take a sharp penknife, 
or a very sharp-pointed knife, and 
cut the turkey open from the 
fieck to the rump, down the back- 
bone. Then, with great care, run the 
knife between the bones and the fiesli 
to the wings, and, on reachingr the 
Joint, unjoint and separate the bones 
from the body without breaking: the 
flesh; in like manner remove eaoh 
bone as you reach the Joint, except 
the small bones in the tips of the 
wings, which cannot be taken out 
easily and are generally left In 
place. Carefully slit out the bones of 
the leg, and then run the knife be- 
tween the bones and flesh till you 
come to the breast bone. Skillfully 
separate the flesh from the bone by 
running the knife between, being: 
careful to pull it out without break- 
ing the flesh of the turkey. After 
removing the carcass, spread out the 
turkey, which will be whole, wipe it 
very carefully with a damp towel, 
and rub well with salt and pepper, 
inside and out. Set aside in a cool 
place and prepare the following: dress- 
ing or stuffing: Take two pounds of 
young veal, one pound of young, fat, 
fresh pork, and one pound of lean 
fresh pork. Mince these as fine as 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



105 



possible, and then season as follows: 
One-half of a nutmeg, finely grrated; 
tablespoonful of minced parsley; one 
of minced thyme, three of minced 
bay leaves, one teaspoonful of salt 
and one of black pepper, a teaspoon- 
ful of grated cinnamon, one-quarter 
teaspoonful of grated allspice and the 
Juice of one onion. Mix all this thor- 
oughly in the stuffing. Add two raw 
eggs, beaten well; stir well. Wlien 
well mixed add one-quarter of a box 
of truffles, chopped, but not too fine. 
Take the turkey, lay it open and 
carefully cut a layer of meat in nice 
slices from the inner part. Then put 
in a thick layer of the stuffing, and 
put over this a layer of the meat, 
using the whole liver, sliced in strips, 
also as alternate layers; then put in 
the rest of the stuffing as a layer, 
and bring the turkey nicely together 
and sew up so that it will retain its 
original shape. Roll the turkey in a 
towel, and tie it securely at both ends 
and around the middle in a solid way. 
Take all the bones of the turkey, the 
skinned feet, cleaned head and all, 
and place in a large pot. Add two 
pounds of veal, cut in pieces, and two 
cairs feet. Put in two carrots, one 
turnip, several sprigs of thyme and 
parsley, three bay leaves and a large 
piece of celery. Add two gallons of 
water, and let this boil very hard for 
an hour. Then add the turkey, which 
you have tied up in the towel, and 
let it boil for two hours. After two 
hours, take the turkey out of the 
towel. It will have shrunken up by 
this time and the towel will be 
crinkled greatly. Roll the towel out 
very smoothly again, and place the 
turkey back in it while hot, and roll 
carefully again. Tie it at both ends 
and across the middle, and then place 
on a table and put a board or plank 
on top, and over this a fifteen-pound 
weight. Leave it in a cool place, but 
not in the ice box, as it must cool 
gradually and naturally. After it has 
cooled five or six hours you may put 
it in the ice box. 

In the meantime, let the turkey 
water, bones, etc., boil for two hours 
longer, then drain the whole through 
a strainer, first letting the juice fall in 
another pan; then strain this through 
a towel, for there must be no pieces 
of cinnamon or herbs or dregs in this 
jelly. Skim off all the grease that 
floats on top, being careful not to 



leave a particle. Put it on the fire 
again, and let it simmer. Add to 
the boiling mixture one lemon and 
skin, cut in four or five pieces, and 
season with salt to taste. Put in a 
bowl one-quarter of a pound of gela- 
tine, and add one pint of water in 
which the turkey has been boiled; stir 
well and let the gelatine melt. When 
well melted, pour into the boiling 
mixture and beat it as you would a 
cake, mixing thoroughly. Break three 
raw eggs in a bowl, mash the shells 
and add; add one small wineglass of 
water and beat well again. Prepare 
a flannel bag of size sufficient to 
hold a half gallon. Then pour the 
eggs into the broth, beating very 
thoroughly and rapidly through and 
through for ten minutes, while it re- 
mains on a slow fire, for the moment 
it begins to boil up it will curdle; then 
take the mixture off and strain in the 
flannel bag. Let this fall preferably 
into several tin cups or cans, and 
set on ice. The next morning it 
will be hard. Then unroll the turkey 
and put it in a dish; cut the jelly 
from the cans into fancy shapes and 
ornament the turkey with it, making 
a fancy border around the dish. You 
will have a dish that a king might 
envy. 

Boned chicken may be prepared in 
exactly the same way. 

CHICKEN. 

Poulet, 

Chickens may be broiled, boiled, 
fried, stewed, baked or smothered. 
For broiling, always purchase spring 
chickens. For baking, the chicken 
must be young and tender. For in- 
valids, a delicately boiled spring 
chicken, with Drawn Butter Sauce, is 
a most nutritious and easily digestible 
dish. 

Broiled Chicken. 

Poulet Grim. 

A Spring Chicken. Melted Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Select spring chickens for broiling. 

Clean the chickens nicely, singe, and 

then split them down the middle of 

the back, laying the chickens open. 

Break the breastbone with a mallet 

and flatten out each chicken. Season 

well with salt and pepper, and brush 

with melted butter. Have the broiler 

ready over a moderate fire, and place 

the chickens in it (the double broiler 



106 



THE PICAYLNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



is best) and let the fowls broil slowly 
for about a half hour or a little longer 
if not very tender. It is well to keep 
a plate over them all the time, so 
as to retain the flavor. Turn each 
chicken frequently, so that it may 
be broiled through and through. It 
should be slightly browned on the 
skin side. When done, place in a 
heated dish, pour melted butter over 
them, garnish with chopped parsley 
and serve hot. A garnish of cresses is 
very pretty. The dish is then called 
"Poulet Grille aux Cressons." 

Boiled Chicken. 

Poulet BouilH. 

A Spring Chicken. Drawn Butter Sauce. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Select a nice spring chicken, clean 
and singe and split down the middle 
of the back. Season with salt and 
pepper, rubbing well on the inside of 
the chicken. Place in a saucepan and 
cover well with waiter, and let it sim- 
mer well for one hour if the chicken 
is young. If the chicken is a year 
old and over, let it simmer for two 
hours or longer, according to age. 
When done place it in a heated dish. 
Pour over it a Drawn Butter Sauce 
(see recipe) and garnish with chopped 
parsley. 

Creamed Chiclcen. 

Poulet d la Cr<^mc. 

1 Chicken. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
A Cream Sauce. 

Select a fine one-year-old chicken, 
and clean, singe and boil according 
to the above recipe, first having cut 
in joints, however. In boiling always 
simply cover the chicken with water, 
otherwise you will have chicken soup, 
all the nutriment of the chicken be- 
ing absorbed by the soup. When 
cooked for an hour or longer, if the 
chicken Is now very tender, place it 
in a dish and pour over It a Cream 
Sauce (see recipe), and serve. 



Deviled Chicken. 

Poulet d la Diable, 

1 Chicken. 1 Tablesp<»onful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of 

I*arsley. 

% of a Clove of Garlic. 

1 Pint of Water. 

1 Teaspoonful of Prepared Mustard. 

Salt and Pepper. A Dash of Cayonne. 

Boll the chicken according to the 
above recipe. Mince the meat fine. 



Make a sauce by putting into a sauce- 
pan one tablespoonful of butter, and 
as it melts add one onion, minced very 
fine; a sprig of minced parsley, one 
minced bay leaf, and a half clove of 
minced garlic. Let it simmer gently 
without browning and then add one 
tablespoonful of flour, well sifted. Mix 
thoroughly, and add three tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar. Stir well and add 
one pint of the water in which the 
chicken was boiled. Season with salt 
and pepper to taste and a slight dash 
of Cayenne. Then add one teaspoon- 
ful of prepared mustard. Let it sim- 
mer three minutes longer, and as it 
comes to a boil pour it over the chick- 
en and serve. Any remains of cold 
chicken are very delicious served with 
this "Sauce & la Diable." (See recipe 
"Meat Sauces.") 

Chicken k la Tartare. 

Poulet d la Tartare, 

1 Spring Chicken. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

1 Tablespoonful of Thyme. 

1 Bay Leaf, Minced Fine. 

1 Chopped Onion. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the chicken according to the 
above recipe, adding the chopped 
vegetables and herbs. Season to taste. 
When done place on a hot dish, but- 
ter nicely and serve with a Sauce d. la 
Tartare. (See recipe.) 

A broiled chicken may be served In 
the same manner, but either broiled 
or boiled, the chicken must be cooked 
whole, splitting down the back. 

Stewed Chicken, Brown Sauce« 

Fricas^e de Volatile, Sauce Brune, 

1 Chicken. 1 Onion. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme, Parsley and 

Bay Leaf. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean and cut the chicken into 
pieces at the joints. Season well with 
salt and black pepper. Chop the onions 
fine. Put a tablespoonful of lard into 
the stewpot, and, when hot, add tho 
onion. Let it brown slightly and then 
add the flour which has been well 
sifted. Ia4 this brown and add the 
chiclven. Let all simmer a few min- 
utes and then add the chopped thyme, 
par.sley and bay leaf. The latter must 
be minced very fine. Stir well and 
often. When every piece Is nicely 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK. BOOIt 



107 



browned, add one pint and a half of 
boiling water or soup broth. Stir 
until it begins to boll. Season again 
to taste. Cover and let it simmer 
gently for an hour, or until tender. 
In making a fricassee, the liver, heart 
and gizzard of the chicken are all 
thrown into the stew. Dish up tho 
chicken, pour over It the hot sauce 
and serve. This dish is very nice with 
boiled rice or potatoes. This plain 
fricassee Is a simple, elegant dish, 
within the means of everyone. 

Stewed Chicken, White Sauce. 

Fricas6e de Volaillc, Sauce Blanche. 
1 Chicken. 1 Onion. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Tableapoonfuls Flour. 1 Pint Fresh 

Milk. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean and cut the chicken into 
joints and clean the gizzard, liver and 
open the heart. Sea.son well with salt 
and pepper, and put all into a stew- 
pan on a moderate fire. Cover well 
with boiling water. Let simmer for 
an hour and a half, or more or less, 
according to the age of the fowl. 
Add the juice of two large onions. 
Cook until tender. This is the un- 
varying rule in stewing or cooking 
chickens, as one may be tender and 
the other quite tough, though of tho 
same age. When the chicken Is 
done, blend together one large table- 
spoonful each of butter and flour In 
a frying pan without browning; add 
a pint of milk and mix well. Add this 
to the chicken, mixing and stirring 
constantly till It bolls. Salt and pep- 
per to taste. Take from the fire and 
add the beaten yolks of two eggs and 
a little chopped parsley. Serve hot. 

Chicken Saute & la Cr6ole. 

Poulct Saute d la Creole. 

2 Fine Spring Chickens. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

6 Large, Fresli Tomatoes, or % Can. 

6 Fresh, Sweet Green Peppers. 

2 Cloves of Garlic. 

3 Large Onions. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

2 Bay Leaves. 
1 Pint of Consomm6 or Boiling Water. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Take two spring chickens and clean 
nicely and cut Into pieces at the joints. 
Season well with salt and pepper. Put 
two tablespoonfuls of butter into a 
stewpan, and when It melts add the 
chicken. Let this brown slowly for 



fully five minutes. Have ready three 
largo onions sliced. Add these to 
the chickens and let them brown. 
Add two tablespoonfuls of flour; let 
this brown. Then add a half dozen 
large, fresh tomatoes, nicely sliced, 
or a half can of tomatoes, and let 
these brown. Cook very slowly, al- 
lowing the mixture to simmer gently. 
Add chopped parsley, thyme and bay 
leaf, and two cloves of garlic finely 
minced. Let all brown without burn- 
ing. Cover and let it smother over 
a slow but steady fire. The tomato 
juice win make suflElclent gravy as 
yet. If you have sweet grreen peppers, 
add a half dozen, taking the seeds out 
before adding and slicing the peppers 
very fine. Stir well. Let all smother 
steadily for twenty minutes at least, 
keeping well coverjed and stirring oc- 
casionally. At this stage, pour in 
one cup of Consomm^, If you have 
It; if not, one cup of boiling water. 
Let it cook again for a full half hour, 
very, very slowly over a steady fire, 
and season again to taste. Cook ten 
minutes more, and serve hot. 

Chicken With Mushrooms. 

Poulct Saute aux Champignons. 

1 Fine Spring Chicken. % Can of 

Mushrooms. 
' 2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Chopped Onions. 1 Clove of Garlic. 
% Square Inch of Ham to Season 

Thyme, Parsley, Bay Leaf. 

Cut Into joints and season a nicely 
cleaned chicken. Put It in a saucepan 
with two tablespoonfuls of butter, and 
let it simmer for about ten minutes, 
browning slightly. A mushroom sauce 
is never dark. Add two nicely chopped 
onions, and let these brown slightly; 
then add one-half of a square inch of 
ham, chopped very fine indeed. Add 
thyme, parsley and bay leaf, follow- 
ing v.arefully the order given in mix- 
ing the ingredients. A minute later 
add the garlic, which has been minced 
very fine. Let all brown together for 
ten minutes. Cut the mushrooms Into 
halves, put them with their water into 
the pot, stirring well. Let them sim- 
mer five minutes. Cover the pot 
closely, so that it can smother well. 
If the sauce appears too thick add 
about a half cup of broth or boiling 
water. Season to taste, and let all 
cook very slowly for an hour longer 
over a steady fire. The secret In 
smothering chicken Is to let It cook 



108 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



slowly, so that the seasoning: may per- 
meate the flesh and the slow heat- 
ing" may make it tender and most 
palatable. 

Chicken With Tmffles. 

Poulet BauH aux Truffes. 
Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as in the above recipe, only add 
a half can of truffles instead of the 
mushrooms. This is an expensive 
dish. 

Chickern and Rice. 

Poulet au Ris, 

1 Fine Chicken. 
H Square Inch of Ham. 

2 Small Turnips. 2 Carrots. 2 Onions. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Small Piece of Lemon Peel. 

1 Small Piece of Red Pepper Pod. 

1 Bay Leaf. 
2 Whole Cloves, \)fithout the Seed. 
3 Sliced Tomatoes. 

3 Sprig's Each of Thyme and Parsley. 
2 Quarts of Water. 2 Tablespoonfuls 

Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean and cut and season the 
chicken well with salt and pepper. 
Let the butter melt in a sauce- 
pan and ad(^ the seasoned chicken. 
Let it brown well, and add the 
vegetables, all chopped very fine. 
Then add the minced herbs and gar- 
lic, and after this the spices. Let all 
simmer gently for ten minutes, pour 
over it two quarts of boiling water, 
stir and season again to taste, set it 
back on the stove and let it simmer 
steadily and slowly for three-quarters 
of an hour. When two-thirds cooked, 
add one cup of well-washed rice, stir 
well, seasoning again to taste. Do 
not let the rice become mushy, have 
the grains stand out. Let all cook 
for twenty minutes longer and serve, 
taking out first the pieces of chicken 
and rangring the rice around as a gar- 
nish. Serve with the sauce poured 
over the top. 

Chicken Stewed With Green Peas. 

Poulet Baut4 aux Petit Poia. 

1 Nice Chicken a Year Old. 

1 Pint of Green Peas. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Chopped Onions. 1 Clove of Garlic. 
1 Pint of Fresh Milk. % Square Inch 

of Ham. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Thyme, Parsley and Bay Leaf. 

Cut and season the chicken nicely. 
Put it in a saucepan 'with two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, and let it simmer 
nicely for about ten minutes without 



browning. Add two nicely-chopped 
onions and let these brown sligrhtly. 
Then add a square inch of ham, 
chopped very fine, und minced thyme, 
parsley and bay leaf, one spri? each. 
Add the garlic, nicely minced. Let 
all brown together, slightly simmering 
all the time. Then pour in one pint 
of boiling water, set it on a low 
fire and let simmer gently for an 
hour and a quarter. About twenty 
minutes before serving: add one pint 
of milk. Serve with the green peas 
heaped around the chicken, which 
should be placed in the center of the 
dish. Pour the gravy over the whole. 

Chicken With Dumplings. 

Poulet auw £chaud6s. 

\ S^l® Year-Old Chicken. 
1 lablespoonful of Lard. 
, « .^ Tablespoonful of Flour. 
1 Sprigr Each of Thyme, Parsley and 

Bay Leaf. 
2 Dozen Small Dumplings. 

Prepare a Plain Fricassee, Brown 
or White Gravy, and, about twelve 
minutes before serving, add the 
dumplings, dropping them in lighUy, 
and bring the chicken to a brisk bou! 
(See recipe for Dumplings.) Place 
the chicken and dumplings in the 
dish, pour the hot gravy over them 
and serve. 

Chicken k la Jardiniere. 

Poulet d la Jardiniere, 

1 Fine Chicken. 

6 Small Onions. 1 TaDlespoonful of 

Lard. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme. Parsley and 

Bay Leaf. % Head Cauliflower. 

% Cup of Green Peas. 

3 Small Artichokes. 

^ Can of Mushrooms. 

Cut and stew the chicken as in 
Fricassee Brown Gravy. After adding 
the water, add a half dozen small 
onions, and let it simmer for an hour, 
or until tender. Then add one-quar- 
ter can of mushrooms, a small half 
head of cauliflower (nicely chopped), 
a half cup of green peas and several 
cooked artichokes. Set upon a quick 
fire, mix well and add a pint of good 
broth or water; let all cook for twenty 
minutes longer and serve hot. 

Smothered Chicken. 

Poulet Braia6. 
1 Chicken. 1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 
This is a most delicate and palata- 
ble way of cooking chickens. After 



TKE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



109 



cleaning the young: chicken, split down 
the back and dredere with salt and 
pepper. Put a tablespoonful of lard 
into the frying: pan, and, when it is 
hot, add the chicken. Let It simmer 
gently for about fifteen minutes, then 
add a half cup of water and set on 
a slow fire, and let it simmer gently 
and steadly for about an hour. Serve 
with a garnish of chopped parsley. 
Some smother the chicken in butter, 
but this is according to taste. Butter 
always makes a greasier dish than 
lard when frying or smothering 
meats. 



Breasts of Chicken Louisiaiia Style. 

Supreme de Volaille LouUiatiaite, 

The Filets of 2 Chickens. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Small Onion, sliced. 1 Minced Bay 

Leaf. 
1 Blade of Mace. 4 Cloves. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

The fllets are the white meat on 
either side of the breast bone. In one 
chicken you will have four filets. 
Form this white meat neatly into 
filets by patting and flattening. Then 
season well with salt and pepper. Put 
the butter into the stewpan and add 
the sliced onion, the bay leaf (whole) 
and the spices. Let all simmer with- 
out browning. Then lay in the filets 
of chicken, being careful not to let 
them brown. Let them simmer gent- 
ly and add one cup of the water in 
which you have boiled the dark meat 
of the chicken. Let all simmer gently 
for an hour. When done, arrange 
the filets tastefully on a dish, garnish 
with parsley sprigs and CroOtons of 
bread nicely shaped in diamond form 
and fried in butter. The dark meat 
may be utilized in making salads, cro- 
quettes or boudins. 

Breasts of Chicken, Queen Style. 

Supreme dc VolaiUe d la Reine. 

6 or 8 Breasts of Chicken. 2 Truffles. 

4 Mushrooms. 

2 Ounces of Chicken Forcemeat. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

^ Cup of Mushroom Liquor. 

1 Pint of Hot Sauce d, la Reine. 

Lender the breast of each chicken 
is found a small filet. Carefully re- 
move this, and set aside on a dish 
for further use. Take a small, sharp 
knife and make an incision three 
inches long and one inch deep in the 
inner side of each breast; season 
lightly with salt and pepper, and then 



stuff each breast with great care, 
using two ounces of chcken forcemeat 
(see recipe), mixed with two truffles 
and four mushrooms, all finely 
minced. Put a tablespoonful of but- 
ter in a stewpan; lay the breasts in 
gently. Take each small filet, press 
gently Into shape and flatten; make 
several small incisions and place with- 
in a fine slice of truffle, about an inch 
in diameter. Carefully lay on top of 
each breast lengthwise. Brush light- 
ly with melted butter. Pour into the 
pan, but not over the breasts, the 
mushroom liquor. Cover tightly and 
set in the oven for fifteen minutes. 
Send to the table hot. 

Smothered Chicken. 

Poularde Etouffie, 

X Young Hen. ^ Pound of Nice Bacon. 

1 Lemon. 2 Carrots. 2 Onions. 

1 Herb Bouquet. IH Cups Broth. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

This is a nice way to utilize young 
hens. Clean and singe the chicken 
nicely, and) after taking out the en- 
trails, truss it as in roasting turkey. 
Place in the frying pan small pieces 
of fat bacon, cut in very slender strips 
of about the size of your finger. Placo 
over this slices of lemon, very fine, 
and cover again with slender bits of 
bacon. Moisten this with a half cup 
of water and lay over it two carrots, 
cut in thin slices, two onions cut 
likewise, and a teaspoonful each of 
thyme, parsley and one bay leaf, 
minced fine. Place on top of this the 
chicken and cover closely. Let it 
cook on a good fire for three-quarters 
of an hour, or a half hour, if the 
chicken is exceedingly tender. When 
done, take out the chicken, add one- 
half cup of broth to the liquor in which 
it has been boiling. Stir well and 
season highly, and pour over the 
chicken and serve. A sauce of toma- 
toes may also be made and served 
with this dish. 

Fried Chicken. 

Poulct Frit. 

1 Spring Chicken. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Lard. 2 Egga. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean and cut the chicken into 
Joints. Dredge well with salt and 
pepper. Make a nice batter with the 
eggs and flour and roll the chicken in 
this, patting lightly. Place in the hot 



110 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



lard in the frying pan and let It cook 
for about three-quarters of an hour, 
watching carefully that it may not 
bum. Serve on a platter* garnished 
with chopped parsley and cresses. 



Fri^d Chicken, Cream Saace. 

Poulet Frit d la Crime. 

1 Spring Chicken. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Lard. 

Salt and Pepper. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Flour. 
% Pint of Milk. 

Clean and cut the chicken at the 
Joints. Dredge well with salt and 
pepper and a little floui\ Put the 
iard into the frying pan, and, when 
hot, add the chicken, letting Jt fry 
slowly for three-quarters of an hour 
until done. Be careful not to burn. 
When done, arrange the pieces on a 
hot dish. Pour off all the fat that 
remains In the frying pan but one 
tablespoonful. Add to this a table- 
spoonful of sifted flour. Mix thor- 
oughly and then pour in a half pint 
of rich cream or milk. Season well 
with salt and pepper, let it come to a 
slight boll and pour over the chicken 
and serve. 

Roast Chicken. 

Poulet Rdti. 

1 Chicken. % Tablespoonful Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for roasting a turkey. (See 
recipe.) The chicken must bake in 
a quick oven, allowing fifteen minutes 
to every pound. A roasted chicken 
may be stuffed or not, according to 
taste, with a stuffing of oysters, eggs 
or truffles (see Dressings for Fowls) 
in exactly the same manner as tur- 
key. 

Chicken a la Reine 

Poulet d la Reine, 

2 Chickens a Year Old. 
V4 Pound of Nice Bacon. 1 Carrot, cut 

fine. 

1 Onion, cut fine. 

1 Quart of Broth or Water. 

X Herb" Bouquet. 

Clean the chickens and truss as for 
•roasting. Then dredge inside and out 
with salt and pepper. Cut the bacon 
Into very thin strips, about the width 
of a match and cover the bottom of 
the stew-pan. Lay over this the car- 
rots and onions, sliced fine, and put 
another layer of salt meat in delicate 
strips. Put the chickens in this and 



cover well and set inside of a hot 
oven. After twenty minutes add the 
boiling broth or water and the bunch 
of sweet herbs. Let the chickens 
cook for two hours, turning them at 
the end of one hour and basting oc- 
casionally. Put the chicken in a hot 
dish, boil the gravy down to a half 
quart, skim off all the grease and pass 
through a sieve and pour over the 
chickens and serve. 

Casserole of Cliicken. 

Casserole de Volaille. 

% Cup of Cream. 
3 Quarts of Cold Water. 
1 Tablespoonful of Salt. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Cups of Louisiana Rice. 
. ^^r\^. ^^^ Pepper to Taste. 

A White Fricass6e of Chicken. 

Make a Fricassi^e of Chicken. White 
Gravy. Boil the rice according to re- 
cipe (see Boiled Rice) and then mash 
the rice thoroughly and add the but- 
ter und season with salt and pepper. 
Take a raised pie pan or casserole 
and press the rice into this, and set 
away to cool. When cool cut out the 
center of the rice and fill the wall 
and bottom with the white fricassee 
of chicken. Cover the top with the 
rice which you have cut out, laying 
on lightly, so as not to press the 
chicken sauce through. Beat an eg^ 
well and brush over this. Set in the 
oven and bake. Serve with Mush- 
room Sauce. 



Chicken SouiDd 

Souffle dc Poulet. 

} £^"v5, '^^ Chopped Left-Over Chicken. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley 

1 Pint of Milk. 1 Tablespoonful of" 

Flour. 
3 Fresh Eggs, 
c ,. ^^ ^"P °' Stale Bread. 
Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan and 
add the flour, and mix nicely without 
browning. Then add the milk and 
Ktir constantly till it boils. Add the 
bread crumbs and cook for one min- 
ute longer. Then take from the fire 
and add the chicken, v/hich has been 
hashed very fine and seasoned well 
with salt, pepper and Cayenne, judging 
according to the taste. Beat the yolks 
of the egffs and add, mixing thorough- 
ly. Then beat the whites to a stiff 
froth and stir very carefully into the 
mixture. Grease the bottom of a bak- 
ing dish with butter and put the mix- 



THE PICAY'UNE CUEOUE COOK BOOK 



111 



ture In this, baking for twenty min- 
utes in a quiclc oven. Serve immedi- 
ately while hot, or It will fall. 

Chicken Pie. 

Tol-au'Vent de VolaUle, 

1 Chicken. 1 Onion. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Sprig* Each of Thyme, Bay Leaf and 

Parsley. 
Pie Paste. 

Clean and cut the chicken into 
small pieces of about two inches in 
length and make a plain fricassee. 
(See Fricassee Brown Gravy.) Pre- 
pare a Vol-au-Vent Paste (see rec- 
ipe), and fill a two-quart tin pan 
with the Paste. Then pour in the 
chicken fricassee, and bake it in the 
oven till the top crust is nicely 
browned. Always bake the under 
crust first. This is a delightful entree 
at any feast. Vol-au-Vent of pigeons, 
young veal or frog legs is made 
in the same manner. A Vol-au-Vent 
of Frogs is called "Grenouilles k la 
I*oulet." The Vol-au-Vent Paste is 
difficult to make. 



Chicken Pattiesy Queen Style. 

Petites Bouch6ea, d la Reinc. 

1 Small Young Chicken. 

12 Rounds of PufT Paste. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

^ Pint of Milk. ^ Can of Mushrooms. 

A Pinch of Grated Nutmeg. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Roast or broil the chicken nicely. 
Make a Puff Paste. (See recipe.) Cut 
a dozen rounds wth a biscuit cutter; 
mark a smaller round or top for a 
cover. Brush with a beaten egg. and 
mark on the surface of each with the 
cutter, dipping it each time in hot 
water, so that the marked outline 
jiay remain perfect. Set in a brisk 
oven and let them brown nicely for 
twelve minutes. Then remove the 
covers gently with a knife and fill 
with the following ingredients: Re- 
move all the chicken meat from the 
bone and chop very fine. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter in a sautoire or 
stewpan and add a tablespoonful of 
sifted fiour. Stir till smooth. Pour 
in grradually a half pint of hot milk 
till the same reaches the consistency 
of a thick cream. Season to taste 
with salt and pepper and a little nut- 
meg, and add one-half can of mush- 
rooms finely chopped and the chicken. 



Stir constantly and let it come to a 
boil. Then remove from the fire and 
fill the patties. Set the covers on, 
serve on a hot dish. Pork tongues, 
blanched sweetbreads and all other 
"Bouch^es" are prepared in the same 
manner. 

Boned Cliicken. 

Galatinc TruffCc d la OeUe. 
Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for boned turkey and serve. 
(See recipe Boned Turkey.) 

Chicken Croqnettes. 

Croquettes de VolaUle. 

1 Young Chicken. 

2 Small Onions. 1 Bay Leaf. 

4 Sprigs of Par.sley. 

1 Large Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Cup of Milk. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Cayenne and Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the chicken as directed in the 
recipe for boiling. Then, when cold, 
remove all the tough fibers and nerves. 
Hash the chicken well and season 
with the minced vegetables and sweet 
herbs, mixing all thoroughly. Then 
take a cup of soft bread, wot it and 
squeeze and soak in a cup of milk, in 
- which you have beaten two eggs. Mix 
all this with the chicken very thor- 
oughly and season to taste. When 
well mixed form the meat into cylin- 
drical shapes and brush with a little 
butter. Then roll in a beaten egg and 
roll again in powdered bread crumbs. 
Fry in boiling lard and serve hot on 
a plate garnished with fried parsley. 
Left-overs of cold turkey or cold 
chicken may be utilized in this way. 

Chicken BallSi Queen Style 

Boudina d la Rclnc. 

1 Young Chlrkon. 

2 Small Onions. 1 Bay Leaf. 

4 Sprigs of Parsley. 1 Cup or Milk. 

2 Eggs. % Grated Nutmeg. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Boudins H la Roine are made in ex- 
actly the same manner as croquettes, 
only the mixture is placed in a fry- 
ing pan and fried in butter, using 
about a tablespoonful. To this is 
added about one pint of milk. Beat 
the chicken thoroughly in this, add 
a grated nutmeg, then take off the 
flre and add two eggs, well beaten. 
Fill custard cups with the mixture, 
place in the oven setting in a pan of 
boiling water and covering with 



112 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



paper. Let them bake thus as you 
would a cup. custard for twenty min- 
utes, and take off the paper and let 
them brown. Serve hot. All cold 
roasts, whether of turkey or chicken, 
may be thus utilized. 

Boulettcs 

Boulettes are prepared In exactly 
the same manner as boudlns, only the 
meat Is formed Into boulettes, or 
small balls, and patted on either side 
to flatten slightly. 

Chicken Salad, Mayonnaise Sauce 

Mayonnaise de Volaille. 

Left-overs of Cold Chicken or a Freshly 

Boiled One. 

3 Hard-Boiled EgrgTS. 

Celery. 1 Onion. 

Celery, Asparagus Tips and Boiled 

Beets to Garnish. 

A Sauce & la Mayonnaise. 

The remains of cold chicken are 
used for this. But it Is always prefer- 
able for dinners to boll the chickens 
nicely and use only the white meat. 
The dark meat, however. Is equally 
good, though It may not look so 
pretty. After cooking the chickens 
till tender, pick out all the white 
meat Into small pieces of about an 
inch or less, and add chopped celery 
of the whitest fiber and very tender. 
Mix thoroughly, using two parts of 
chicken to one of celery; add a finely 
chopped onion and salt and pepper 
to taste. Put this on a dish, spread 
over It a nice Mayonnaise and gar- 
nish with celery and asparagus tips, 
olives, and sliced red beets and lemon. 

Chicken Livers 

Foiea de Volaille, 
Chicken livers may be prepared as 
"Fole de Volallte Saute," or "Foie de 
Volaille en Brochette." These are 
prepared in exactly the same manner 
as in the recipes for cooking beef's 
liver. (See recipe.) 

CAPONS 

ChaponB. 

Capons of either turkey or chicken 
are cooked in exactly the same man- 
ner, generally being best when boiled 
or roasted. 

Chapon Parcie & la Crfeme corre- 
sponds to Creamed Chicken, and 
Chapon d. la Poele corresponds to Pou- 
larde & la Poele, and are particularly 
recommended. (See recipes.) 



GUINEA FOWL 

Pintade, 
The guinea fowl is eaten only, when 
very young, and then it makes a nice, 
palatable dish. All the directions 
given for cooking turkey may be fol- 
lowed in preparing this fowl, and it 
is unnecessary to repeat them here. 
(See recipes for Cooking Turkey.) 

GOOSE 

Oie. 
The goose is a much tougher fowl 
than either the chicken or turkey, 
and requires longer to cook. It is 
also dryer meat, and in roasting re- 
quires a little water poured over it. 
Never roa.3t a goose that is more than 
eight months or a year old, and never 
eat one over three years old. Wild 
geese not more than one year old. and 
yard ducklings of similar age. are 
broiled in the same manner as spring 
chicken. The fatter the goose the 
more tender and juicy the meat. 

Roast Goose 

Oie ROtie. 

1 Young Goose. 4 Onions. 
1 Cup of Mashed Potatoes. 
% Teaspoonful of Thyme. 
2 Sprigs of Parsley. 
4 Apples. IVi Tablespoonfuls of Lard. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A roast goose, properly prepared, is 
a very savory dish, whether the fowl 
is wild or tame. But, as mentioned 
above, the goose must be tender. If 
the breast bone yields easily to pres- 
sure and the pinions are very tender, 
the legs smooth and yellow and free 
from feathers, the goose is young. In 
picking a goose never scald it, as this 
utterly ruins the flesh. The goose 
must be hand picked. Then singe 
and clean, and season well and roast 
as you would a turkey, allowing, how- 
ever, twenty-five minutes to every 
pound. It may be served with a Gib- 
let Sauce as roast chicken. Apple 
Sauce or Currant Jelly is always 
served with Koast Goose, preferably 
the Apple Sauce. Any stuffing used 
in baking a turkey may be used for 
roast goose, such as oyster or eg^, 
etc. But the following is an excellent 
special dressing and seems to bring 
out more than any other the flavor 
of the goose: 

Take one cup of mashed potatoes, 
four apples, peeled nicely and cored. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



113 



and four onions, one-half teaspoonTul 
of sage, powdered well; one-half tea- 
spoonful of thyme, and pepper and 
salt to taste. Place the apples and 
onions and herbs in a saucepan and 
put in water sufficient to cover nicely. 
Let all cook together till soft. Then 
mash well and rub through a sieve. 
Add the cup of mashed potatoes and 
mix well, seasoning with salt and pep- 
per. Stuff the body and craw, sew 
up and truss the goose. Put into the 
roasting pan, rubbing a half table- 
spoonful of lard over it and pouring 
on it a half cup of boiling water. 
Baste the goose very frequently, say 
every ten minutes, so that it will be 
fine and juicy. It generally requires 
at least an hour and a half to roast 
well, but the rule of twenty-five min- 
utes to the pound is a good one to 
follow. A "Green Goose*' is always 
best for roasting, but this must be 
covered from the beginning with a 
piece of buttered paper, else it will 
brown before cooking. Serve with 
Apple Sauce. 

Goose Daube 

Oie en Daube. 
Prepare in exactly the same man- 
ner as Turkey Daube (see recipe). A 
goose that is not so young may be 
cooked & la Daube. 

Goose k la Clilpolata 

Oie d la Chipolata. 

1 Fine Young Goose. 
^ Pound of Chaurice. 1 Can of 

Mushrooms. 

1 Dozen Large Chestnuts, nicely 

roasted and skinned. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

3 SprlKs of Parsley. 

The Juice of 2 Lemons. 

4 or 6 Bits of Lemon Peel. 

2 Onions. 1 Pint of Boiling Water. 

^ Tablespoonful of Lard or Butter. 

1 Spoon of Flour. 

Place the lard or butter in the 
Gtewpot and when It melts add the 
onions, which have been nicely sliced. 
As they brown add the goose, which 
has been cleaned, singed and nicely 
cut at the joints into pieces, and well 
rubbed with salt and pepper, and the 
sausage, which must be cut in halves. 
Let simmer for about ten minutes, 
until every portion is slightly browned 
and then add the minced herbs and 
garlic. After three minutes add the 
spoonful of flour, mixing well, and 
let it all simmer for ten minutes 



longer, then pour In the can of mush- 
rooms and their water, and add im- 
mediately the chestnuts. Let the 
goose cook till tender, and serve hot. 



Fat liivers 

Dea Foies Oraa, 
The livers of geese that have been 
caged tightly, so that they can make 
no movement, and which have been 
kept In a very high temperature, 
much higher than that of the atmos- 
phere — geese which have been de- 
prived of every ray of light — ^are used 
for the famous dish, "Foles Gras." 
The French first discovered this man- 
ner of caging geese, doing It at their 
ancient stronghold of Strasbourg. At 
Toulouse the livers of tame ducks 
were treated In the same manner. The 
Creoles brought over the custom to 
the old French colony of Louisiana, 
whence It has spread to all portions 
of the United States. While the livers 
of the geese or ducks become soft 
and fat under this treatment, the rest 
of the body suffers, and becomes so 
very fat that the goose flesh Is good 
for nothing; or, as the Creoles say, 
."Plus bonne a rlen." Foles Gras are 
now sold In cans In every large gro- 
cery establishment In the United 
States. They come already cooked, 
In such shape that they can easily 
be made Into any of the delectable 
dishes that so delight ''bons vlvants." 
The most famous of these dishes is 
the 

Patties of Foies Gras 

Pat 68 de Foie Oraa. 

1 Terrlne of Foles Gras. 

1 Pound of Fat Pork. 

1 Pound of Goose Fat. 

^ Can of Truffles. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A PufC Paste. 

Procure the fat livers of geese. 
(They are no longer to be bought ex- 
cept already prepared In cians, Terrlne 
de Fole Gras aux TruflHes du Perlgord, 
Strasbourg. ) To this allow one pound 
of fat pork and one pound of goose fat. 
Chop these and the livers very flne, 
allowing a pound of the fat meat and 
goose fat to the same quantity of 
livers. Season well with salt and pep- 
per, and moisten. Chop a half can of 
truffies and mix, and put all In a quart 
size baking pan, which has been lined 
with PufC Paste. (See recipe.) The 
pan must be about two and a half 



114 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



or three Inches deep. Bake this paste 
and then fill in with the foies gras. 
rover with a light layer of the dough, 
and decorate around the edges with 
the clippings of dough that remain. 
Place the pie ii> the oven, and let it 
bake for about an hour to a nice 
brown, covering for the first three- 
quarters of an hour with a piece of 
paper to prevent burning. When done, 
serve in the dish In which it was 
baked. This is the real Creole Pat4 
de Fole Gras. 

Stewed Foies Gras 

Foics Gras en Matelote. 

1 Terrine of Foies Gras. 

Thin Strips of Bacon. 

1 Carrot. 1 Onion. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Get the prepared Foies Gras. Cut 
them into slices or fllets. Lard them 
with a larding needle and then place 
at the bottom of the saucepan small 
strips of bacon, cut very thin and fine. 
Add one carrot, nicely sliced; one 
onion, nicely sliced, and a tablespoon- 
ful of chopped parsley. Cover this 
with narrow strips of bacon, and 
moisten. Add the juice of a lemon 
and let it simmer well for a 
few minutes. Then add the livers, 
and let them simmer for ten minutes 
longer. Season to taste, cook five min- 
utes more and serve hot. In season- 
ing, the livers prepared in this man- 
ner must always have a stimulating 
taste. ' 

Ixmf of Foies Gras 

Pain fie Foie Oras. 

Poles Gras. */4 Can of Mushrooms. 

\X Can of Truffles. 2 Shallots. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme, Parsley and 

Bay Leaf, 
1 Leaf of Rose Geranium. 
% Teaspoonful Each of Ground Cinna- 
mon, Allspice, Cloves and Mace. 
1 Young Sweetbread. 
1/^ Cup of Soft Bread. 
The Yolk of an Egg. 
Grated Bread Crumbs. 

Choose sufTiclent livers for the num- 
ber of guests, for t)\ia is never an 
everyday dish, and pl'ico them In a 
saucepan with a tablespoonful of but- 
ter. Let them simmer gently and 
add a half can of mushrooms and a 
quarter of a can of truffles, two shal- 
lots, nicely minced; a sprig each of 



thyme, bay leaf and parsley, minced 
fine; salt and pepper to taste, and a 
half teaspoonful of prepared mus- 
tard; the leaf of one geranium, 
minced fine, and a quarter teaspoon- 
ful each of ground cinnamon, allspice, 
cloves and mace. Mix this thoroug-hly 
and let it simmer in the juice of the 
mushrooms for about twenty minutes. 
Then take a young sweetbread and 
cook according to recipe for Plain 
Fried Sweetbreads, and add a half 
cup of soft bread, well moistened 
with milk. Mix this with the 
hashed sweetbreads, and add the 
yolk of an egg. Place this in a mor- 
tar with the foies gras and mix well. 
Then turn into a pan and brush 
lightly with the beaten yolk of an 
egg, and sprinkle grated bread crumbs 
over. Set in a pan of boiling water 
(Bain-piarie). and bake in the oven 
for about a half hour. 



Foies Gras IxNif Jellied 

Pain de Foica d la GeUe. 

Foies Gras. 1 Slice of Fat Fresh Pork. 

1 Slice of Lean Pork (Grated). 

^ Can of Mushrooms. 

1/4 Can of Truffles. 

1 Calf's Foot. 1 Bay Leaf. 

Grated Bread Crumbs. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

% Teaspoonful of Ground Allspice, 

Cinnamon. Cloves and Mace. 

^ Cup of Soft Bread. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Bits of Lemon Peel. 

This is prepared in exactly the same 
manner as the above, only the sweet- 
breads are omitted, and in their place 
is added an egg, well beaten, and a 
piece of grated lean and fat fresh 
pork meat. Add a half can of mush- 
rooms again and a quarter of a can 
of truffles, and a piece of calf's foot. 
Cook into a mixture of the consist- 
ency of gravy, mash well and strain 
in a sieve after seasoning very highly; 
add the juice. Let this simmer for 
about five minutes and add the pint 
of boiling water. Set on a low fire, 
put in the bits of lemon and let it 
cook for about two hours, or less, 
according to the age of the goose. 
When done, skim carefully of all 
grease and at the moment of serving 
add the juice of one lemon to the 
mixture. This is a very rich dish, and 
is served as an entree. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



115 



1% 



CHAPTER XVII 




PIGEONS 




PigeotiB. 



Pigeons are of two kinds, those of 
the dovecote and those that are shot 
on the wing, commonly called doves. 
The latter are always broiled, just as 
one would broil any other bird or a 
tenderloin beefsteak; else they are 
roasted in little bands of bacon. The 
former are prepared in various ways, 
as, indeed, the latter may be also, 
only the wild taste is more apparent 
when broiled or roasted. 



Broiled Pigeons 

Pig€on9 onus, 

6 or 8 Young Squabs. • 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Melted Butter. 

6 or 8 Pieces of Buttered Toast. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 

Squabs are always best for broiling. 
Pluck and clean nicely inside and out. 
"Wipe with a damp towel. Split down 
the back and spread open as you 
would a broiled chicken. Have the 
gridiron very hot. Rub the pigeon 
inside and out with salt and pepper, 
and brush lightly with butter. Place 
the broiler over a moderate furnace 
fire, from which all the gas has been 
exhausted, and let it broil slowly ten 
minutes on the inner side and five 
minutes on the outer. In the mean- 
time toast a piece of bread for every 
pigeon that you broil. Moisten well 
with butter. Place the squabs upon the 
toast, sprinkle thickly with chopped 
parsley and butter, and serve hot. It 
is always well to rub the pigeon with 
a little lemon juice, as this makes the 
flesh nice and white. 

Pigeons Broiled h la Crapaudine 

Pigeons d la Crapaudinc. 

4 Pigeons. The Yolk of an Egg. 
1 Cup of Milk. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A Tomato Sauce. 

This is a famous Creole dish, the 
object being so to dress the pigeons 



that they will resemble little frogs, 
hence the name. "Pigeons Si la Cra- 
paudine." 

Clean the pigeons nicely, inside and 
out, and then carefully cut the breast 
from the loin Joints, without separat- 
ing entirely. Raise the breast up from 
the shoulder joints, and pass it over 
the head of the pigeon, without sep- 
arating it from the shoulders. Then 
press it down very firmly with your 
hands or a masher. Have ready the 
yolk of one egg, well beaten in a 
cup of milk. Season well with salt 
and pepper. Soak the pigeons in it, 
rolling over and over, so as to gather 
up the seasoning. Then pass them 
through bread crumbs, rolling and 
then patting each pigeon with your 
hands, so that the crumbs will hold. 
Brush each with a little melted but- 
ter. Have ready a double broiler, 
well heated, but on a slow fire. Place 
the pigeons on it, broiling very slowly. 
Broil for fifteen or twenty minutes, 
allowing from seven to ten minutes to 
each side, and serve with Tomato 
Sauce. (See recipe.) 



Roasted Squab 

Pigeons Rdtia sur Canapes. 

6 or 8 Young Squab. 

6 or 8 Thin Slices of Fat Bacon. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Truffles (if desired). 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

6 or 8 Slices of Buttered Toast. 

Use squab only for roasting. Clean 
nicely, and then truss the pigeon as 
you would a turkey, only use wooden 
skewers to hold the wings and leg.s 
in place. Take a slice of nice fat 
pork and fasten it around the body of 
each pigeon, passing over the breast. 
Put a bit of butter about the size of 
a pecan in each bird, and, if you can 
afford to do so, you may stufl! with 
truffles. But this is a matter o'f taste. 
Put the pigeons in the roasting pan, 
and add a tablespoonful of butter and 



116 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



about two tablespoonfuls of water. 
The oven should be hot, but must not 
be scorching. Baste the birds fre- 
quently, and let them roast from fif- 
teen to twenty minutes, according to 
their size. Prepare toasted bread, one 
slice for each pigeon. Butter well, 
and then remove the fat pork and 
place the pigeons on the toast. Pour 
over each a little of the gravy which 
has been made in the ro.asting pan, 
allowing it to soak into the bread. 
Serve hot, with a Jelly, preferably 
Cranberry Sauce. (See recipe.) 

Compote of Pigeons 

Pigeons en Compote. 

6 Fine Fat Squab. A Half Can of 

Mushrooms. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

2 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Onion. 

1 Tablespoonfulof Butter. 

% Cup of Consomm€. 

Clean the squabs nicely; singe, 
draw and truss, with their legs inside. 
Rub well with salt, pepper and three 
cloves and three allspice, ground very 
fine. Melt a tablespoonful of butter 
slowly in a saucepan. Add the sliced 
onion, and as it browns add the sliced 
carrot. Let this simmer gently for 
three or four minutes, and then add 
a minced sprig of thyme, and parsley, 
and one bay leaf and the clove of a 
garlic, minced very fine. Let all this 
brown, and then lay it on top of the 
pigeons, which have been bound with 
thin strips of bacon tied around 
them. Cover well. Let this simmer 
for about fifteen minutes till the 
pigeons are nicely brow^ned, and then 
add a half cup of consomme, if you 
have it; if not, a half cup of boiling 
water. After ten minutes add a half 
can of mushrooms. Let all simmer 
gently for an hour longer, being care- 
ful not to let the pigeons go to pieces. 
Place each pigeon on a toasted Crofl- 
ton, and garnish with the mushrooms. 
Pour the gravy over all and serve hot. 
This is a most excellent compote. 

Squab With Green Peas 

Pigeons Stouff^s aux Petit Pois, 

3 Pigeons. 1 Pint of Green Peas. 

^ Inch of Ham. 2 Onions. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean the pigeons nicely, leaving 
them whole, as you would a fowl that 



is to be roasted, and truss nicely. 
Place two finely sliced onions in 
a saucepan with a tablespoonful of 
melted butter. Let them brown 
slightly, and lay the pigeons that have 
been rubbed well with salt and pep- 
per, inside and out, on top of the 
onions. Cover closely and let them 
smother. Then add for each pigeon 
one-half an inch of nice ham, minced 
very fine. Now put in one sprig: of 
thyme and one bay leaf, and the 
clove of a garlic, minced very fine. 
Let this smother very slowly for ten 
or fifteen minutes. When ixrell 
browned moisten with a cup of con- 
somme or broth, and add one pint of 
fresh green peas, or one can. Cover 
tight, and let all simmer over a slow 
fire for one hour, or more if the 
pigeons are not very tender. Serve 
on a platter, placing the pigeons in 
the center and heaping the green peaa 
around. 

Pigeons and Crawfish 

Pigeons d la Cardinale. 

3 Pigeons. 2 Dozen Crawfish. 
1 Slice of Fat Bacon. 1 Square Inch of 

Ham. 

1 Onion. 1 Carrot. 1 Herb Bouquet. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean the pigeons nicely, and rub 
inside and out with the Juice of a 
lemon. Then rub with salt and pep- 
per, and brush with melted butter. 
Place thin strips of fat bacon in the 
bottom of a saucepan, lay the pigeons 
on this, and cover with another thin 
layer of strips of bacon. Cover with 
butter and set in a slow oven, and 
let them simmer gently. In the mean- 
time prepare a "Poele" as follows: 
Take a small square inch of ham, 
chop or mince very fine, and fry in 
a tablespoonful of butter. Add an 
onion and a carrot, chopped fine. Let 
these brown, and then add an herb 
bouquet, minced very fine. When 
brown add a cup of bouillon, and let 
it boil for ten minutes. Pour this 
sauce over the baking pigeons, and 
let them cook slowly for about an 
hour, or until done. In the meantime 
boil about two dozen nice crawfish, 
according to recipe (see Crawfish), 
and, when the pigeons are done, place 
them on buttered Croutons and place 
between each a grarnish of crawfish. 
Add about a halt cup of the broth 
in which the crawfish have been 
boiled to the gravy in the baking 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIjE COOK BOOK 



117 



dish. Let it simmer for five minutes 
till reduced slightly, and pour over 
the pigeons. 

Pigeon Pie 

Vol-au'Vent de Pigeons, 

6 Young Wild Pigeons. 

1 Onion. 1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Sprig Each Thyme, Bay Leaf and 

•Parsley. Pie Paste. 

Clean and cut the young pigeons 
into small pieces of about two inches 
in length and make a plain fricassee. 
(See Fricassee Brown Gravy.) Pre- 
pare a Vol-au-Vent Paste (see recipe) 
and line a two-quart tin pan with 



the paste. Pour in the pigeons and 
gravy, and let bake in the oven till 
the top crust is nicely browned. Al- 
ways bake the under crust first. 

Again, the pie may be prepared as 
follows: After cleaning the pigeons, 
stufC each daintily with oyster or ege 
dressing and then loosen the Joints 
with a knife without separating them. 
Put into a stewpan and make a plain 
fricassee as above indicated. I^et them 
cook until tender, and season with 
salt and pepper. Fill the pic di.sh 
with the pie paste; put in the birds, 
pour the gravy over them, cover with 
a crust and bake. 



CHAPTER XVIII 




GAME 




GilHer. 



The number and variety of the 
game of the Louisiana forests have 
been the subject of many magazine 
and newspaper articles and the Joy 
of the chasseurs,' or hunters, from 
earliest days. The birds alone are so 
distinct and remarkable that the great 
Audubon devoted his life to their 
study, and h*' volume on the birds of 
Louisiana stands out as the greatest 
work extant upon birds. The fact 
is, that all through the year, from 
January to December, fancy game 
may be found in the New Orleans 
markets, though the game laws are 
very strict, and no bird is allowed 
to be shot out of season. 

Something to Remember When 
Cooking Game 

Game should never be fried. The 
smaller game is roasted or broiled, 
and the larger ducks and venison, 
squirrels and rabbits are made into 
stews or "salmis." 

VENISON 

Du Chevreuil. 

The meat of Venison may be kept 
in cold weather at least ten or twelve 
days, if hung in a cold place; in warm 



weather for much less time, unless 
dried. The meat of fresh Venison is 
of a fine grain, and is always nicely 
covered with fat. The age of the deer 
can always be told by examining the 
hoofs; if it is young, the hoofs will 
be very slightly opened; if old, they 
will stand apart. Of all meats, Veni- 
.son cooks the most rapidly. Veni- 
son is always best when the deer has 
been killed in the autumn. Wild ber- 
ries are then plentiful and the animal 
has thus abundant opportunity to fat- 
ten upon these and other fresh, wild 
fcrod. 

Roast Haunch of Venison 

Cuissot de Chevreuil Rdti. 

A Haunch or Saddle of Venison. 

Melted Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Watercress to Garnish. Currant Jelly. 

Prepare the haunch or saddle of 
Venison in the same manner as you 
would the roast beef. (See recipe 
Roast Beef.) Only pour a cup of 
water over the Venison when putting 
in the oven, for it is a dry meat, and 
requires a little moistening if roasted. 
Bake in a quick oven, allowing ten 
minutes to the pound. A haunch of 
Doe Venison will require in the ag- 
gregate half an hour less time to roast 



118 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



than Buck Venison. To prevent the 
hoof and hair just above changringr 
color in cooking: always bind this with 
a coarse piece of muslin, in four or 
five pieces of thickness, coveringr the 
hoof and hair. Wet with cold water, 
and bind a buttered paper tightly 
around and over it. Baste every ten 
minutes, with melted butter first, and 
then with the drippings of the Veni- 
son. When half cooked, turn the 
Venison over, so that the other side 
may cook. Unbind the hoofs and 
garnish them with quilled paper. 
Place the Venison on a dish garnished 
with Watercress. Serve with Currant 
Jelly. (See recipe.) 

Venison Steaks k la Polvrade 

Filet de Chcvrcuil d la Poivrade, 

B Filets or as Many Filets as Desired. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. A Sauce 

Poivrade. 

The filets or Venison steaks are 
taken from any part of the Venison. 
The best are from the haunch or leg, 
and cut three-quarters of an inch in 
thickness. Rub them well with s^lt 
and pepper, and then fry in butter, al- 
lowing about five minutes to the steak. 
Venison must be served on a very hot 
dish and eaten hot. Place in a heated 
dish, and garnish with melted butter 
and chopped parsley, and serve with 
a Sauce Poivrade for Venison (sec 
recipe), pouring the sauce over the 
steaks. This is a delicious dish. 



pan, set on the stove and let It come 
to a boil. Then skim the gravy of 
aU fat and strain over the Venison. 
Serve with a hot Currant Jelly Sauce 
as follows: Take a half pint of Cur- 
rant Jelly and stir till it is thoroughly 
dissolved. Then put in a saucepan 
and set on the stove and let it come 
gradually to a boil, then add a table- 
spoonful of Sauce Espagnole (see 
recipe) and let it again come to a boll. 
Serve with the Venison, sending each 
to the table separately. 

Venison steaks broiled may also be 
served with this sauce. The steaks 
are placed in a dish one overlapping 
the other; the hot sauce is poured 
over and thus it Is sent to the table. 



Venison Cutlets Broiled 

Cotelett€$ de Chevreuil Grillica. 

6 Venison Cutlets. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Melted Butter. 

Chopped Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Watercress to Garnish. 

Trim the cutlets nicely, rub well 
with salt and pepper, brush with a lit- 
tle butter, and broil over a quick, 
clear fire, allowing about eight min- 
utes, or less, according to size to each 
cutlet. They must always, like all 
Venison, be under-done. WTien cooked 
place in a very hot. dish, pour over a 
little melted butter and chopped pars- 
ley, garnish with watercress, and 
serve with Currant Jelly. 



Saddle of Venison, Currant Jelly Sauce 

Selle dc Chevreuil, Sauce Qroseillc. 

A Saddle of Venison Weighing About 5 

Pounds. 

1 Onion. 1 Carrot. 

% Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Gills of Consomm6. 

Currant Jelly Sauce. 

Skin the Venison neatly and remove 
all the sinews from the surface. Take 
fine larding needles* and lard closely. 
Tie the saddle around four times. 
Slice the carrot and onion and put in 
the roasting pan. Place the Saddle 
of Venison on top of these, sprinkle 
lightly with a pinch of salt, and 
spread a half tablespoonful of butter 
over. Set in a brisk oven and roast 
for forty minutes, frequently basting 
the Venison with its own gravy. Be- 
fore taking it from the pan remove 
the cord which binds it and place 
the saddle in a hot dish. Then pour 
two gills of veal consomm6 into the 



Stewed Venison k la O6ole 

Salmi de Chevreuil d la Criole* 

Venison Steaks, or Rougher Part of the 

Deer. 

2 Onions. 1 Square Inch of Ham. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Clove of Garlic. Chopped Very Fine. 

1 Herb Bouquet, Chopped Fine. 

2 Cups of Water. 

1 Can of Mushrooms. 

The rougher parts of Venison are 
usually used for stewing, but the dish 
is most delicious when made of Veni- 
son steaks. Cut the Venison Into two- 
inch square pieces, and rub well with 
salt and pepper. Chop two onions 
very fine, and put them in a stewpan 
with a tablespoonful of melted butter, 
l^et them brown slightly; then add 
the Venison meat. Let it brown 
slightly, and then add one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, and let this brown a lit- 
tle. Chop the square inch of ham 
very fine, mincing it, and add. Then 



TH£ PICAYUNB CR£OIiE COOK BOOK 



119 



add the clove of garlic, and two sprigs 
each of thyme and parsley and a bay 
leaf, minced fine. Let this brown 
nicely, then add two cups of boiling 
water. Stir well, season again to 
taste, and let it boll for thirty min- 
utes, and serve hot. This dish will 
be improved beyond estimation if a 
can of mushrooms Is added imme- 
diately after adding the water. Serve 
very hot. 

Venison, Hunter's Style 

ChevreuU d la Cha98eur. 

3 Pounds of Venison Meat. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Onion. 

1 Square Inch of Ham. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 2 Sprigs of Thyme. 

2 Bay Leaves. 
% Box of Mushrooms. The Rind of a 

Lemon. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Crodtons to Garnish. 

Cut the Venison into pieces of about 
two inches square. Salt and pepper 
well. Put two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter into a saucepan with the Venison 
and let it brown slowly. When nearly 
brown, add an onion, chopped fine, 
and let this brown slightly; then add 
the ham, minced very fine, and the 
clove of garlic and bay leaves and 
thyme, minced very fine. Stir in with 
the venison, and let these brown for 
about two minutes. Then add a table- 
spoonful of flour and brown for a 
few minutes more. Add a pint of 
warm water and let all simmer for five 
minutes. Then add a quart of con- 
somme and 1 t all cook for about one 
hour. Season again according to taste 
and add a half can of mushrooms 
chopped fine, the grated lemon rind 
and season again to taste. Let all 
cook a half hour longer and serve on 
a hot dish with Crofitons fried in 
butter. 

Stewed Venison, French Style 

Civet de Chevreuil d la Francaise. 

2% Pounds of Venison (the lower and 

lean part preferable). 

A Handful of Parsley. 1 Onion. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 2 Bay Leaves. 

12 Whole Peppers. A Half Glass of 

Vinegar. 

2 Pints of Veal ConsommS. 

1 Ounce of Salt Pork. 12 Small Onions. 

1 Dozen and a Half Mushrooms. 

1 Herb Bouquet. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. Crotltons. 

Cut the Venison into small pieces 

of about two inches square. Make a 



"Marinade" by placing the Venison 
in an earthen Jar ^nrlth one large onion 
sliced, a handful of parsley, the 
chopped thyme and bay leaf, the 
whole peppers, a light seasoning of 
salt and black pepper, and the vine- 
gar. Let the Venison marinate for 
twelve hours. Then drain it from the 
juice and place It In a saucepan with 
one tablespoonful of the best butter, 
and let It brown over a moderate fire. 
After ten minutes add three table- 
spoonfuls of flour and stir constantly. 
Then moisten with the consomm^. 
Season again to taste with salt and 
pepper, and stir until It comes to a 
boll. Then add the small onions 
which have been nicely peeled, and 
one ounce of salt pork and the herb 
bouquet. Let all cook about forty 
minutes, and about flve minutes be- 
fore serving add the mushrooms. Take 
out the herb bouquet and decorate the 
venison nicely with toasted Crodtons, 
and serve hot. 



Venison in a Cliafing Dish 

Ohevreuil au Richaud. 

8 or 10 Slices of Venison. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Currant Jelly. 

1 Tablespoonful of Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

This is a most delicious way of pre- 
paring Venison. The old Creoles use. 
If a chaflng dish Is not available, a 
little alcohol lamp and a frying pan. 
Slice the Venison very thin In pieces 
about two Inches long and one Inch 
wide, and about the thickness of a 
sliver dollar. Have the chaflng dish 
on the dining table. The pan must be 
very hot. The meat must be well sea- 
soned with salt and pepper, and ready 
to put Into the pan. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter Into the dish. Let 
it get very hot, without burning. Put 
the slices of Venison In the dish. In 
one minute turn them over. Take a 
tablespoonful of melted butter, and 
blend well with a tablespoonful of 
Currant Jelly and a tablespoonful of 
water. Spread this over the cooking 
Venison. Turn again. Let It cook 
for five minutes only, and serve very 
hot. This Is one of the finest old- 
fashioned Creole dishes, and Is good 
for breakfast, luncheon or supper. 
Bear In uAnd that to be delicious it 
must be made at the table, as it will 
lose half its flavor If brought from 
the kitchen to the table. 



120 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



Venison Hash 

Hachis de ChevreuU, 

3 Cup8 of Left-Over Venison. 

6 Potatoes. 1 Herb Bouquet. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard or Butter. 

This is a splendid way of utilizing 
the left-over Venison. After having 
taken off all the rough edges of the 
roast ^nd cut out the gristle and hard 
membrane, hash the Venison into 
pieces of about one inch In size. Take 
six potatoes left over, or freshly 
boiled, and cut into quarters. Chop 
fine one herb bouquet. Place a table- 
spoonful of butter or a half table- 
spoonful of lard into the stewpot, and 
as it melts add the Venison, seasoned 
well, and a few minutes later the fine 
herbs. Mince the clove of a garlic 
if the flavor is liked and add. Stir 
constantly without browning much, 
and add a tablespoonful of flour. Let 
this brown very slightly, and then add 
potatoes. Cover and let all sinimer 
for about twenty minutes, and then 
pour over a pint of boiling water. 
Season again to taste and set back on 
the stove and let it simmer gently for 
about three-quarters of an hour. Cut 
some CroQtons and fry them in but- 
ter; place on a dish and serve with 
the hash. 

WILD TURKEY 

Dinde Sauvage. 
The wild turkey abounds in Louisi- 
ana. It is roasted in the same man- 
ner as the domestic fowl (see recipe) 
and is always served with Cranberry 
Sauce. (See recipe.) 

WILD DUCKS 

Canards Sauvayes. 

The wild ducks, so much enjoyed 
in Louisiana, are many, but the most 
famous are the Canvasback Duck, or 
"Cannard Cheval," the more delicate 
"Teal Ducks," or "Sarcelles," and the 
noted Mallard Ducks, or ''Canards 
Prancais." Then we have a species 
of water fowl called the "Poule 
d'Eau," or water chicken, which lives 
exclusively In the waters of the 
Louisiana bayous and marshes; as it 
never comes on dry land, it has been 
classed by the Creoles among the fish, 
and is eaten on Fridays and fast days, 
when flesh meat is forbidden to 
Catholics. 

In the following selected recipes, 
it must be borne in mind that all 



tame or domestic ducks may be 
cooked in the same manner as the 
wild ducks. For this reason it would 
be superfluous to give a special sec- 
tion to the former. But the flavor of 
the wild duck is such that it Xb al- 
ways preferred on Creole tables as the 
superior bird. Ducks are stewed or 
roasted. The wild goose, or "Oie 
Sauvage," is cooked in the same man- 
ner as the wild duck and the domes- 
tic goose; the "Duckling," or "Canne- 
ton," in the same manner as the deli- 
cate "Teal Duck" or "Sarcelle." 

In cleaning all game, remember 
that they must be hand-picked, and 
never scalded, as scalding utterly 
ruins their flavor. Wild duck should 
not be dressed too soon after beinir 
killed. 

Canvasback Duck 

Canard Cheval, 
Epicureans declare that the Can- 
vasback Duck is the King of Birds. 
And as it feeds mostly on wild celery, 
it requires no flavors or spices to 
make it perfect. This flavor is best 
preserved when the duck lis roasted 
quickly with a hot fire. And so also 
with the dainty Mallards or French 
Ducks. 



Mallard Ducks or Canvasback Ducks 

Roasted 

Canard Francaie ou Canard Cheval Rdti 
, ^ ^ 1 Pair of Wild Ducks. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. Salt ano 
Pepper to Taste. 

Clean the ducks as you would a 
chicken, without scalding, however. 
Hlnse out the inside and wipe well 
inside and out with a wet towel. But 
do not wash the duck unless you have 
broken the gall bladder, as the wash- 
ing destroys their flavor. Rub the in- 
side well with salt and pepper, and 
rub outside as thoroughly. Place a 
three-inch lump of butter on the in- 
side. Truss nicely and place the 
ducks in a baking pan, and brush the 
tops with melted butter. Pour over 
two tablespoonfuls of water, and set 
in a very hot oven, and allow them 
to bake twenty minutes, if they are 
not very large, and thirty minutes, if 
larger than the ordinary size of Can- 
vasback Ducks. A wild duck is never 
cooked dry. It must reach the point 
where the blood will not run if the 
flesh is pierced with the fork in carv- 
ing. When done, place the ducks in 



THE PICAYUXB CKEOIiK COOK BOOK 



121 



a very hot dish, and serve with their 
own gravy poured over them. Oar- 
nlsh nicely with parsley or watercress. 
Serve with Currant Jelly. Always 
have the plates very hot in which you 
serve the ducks at table. 



and then pour over two cups of boil- 
ingr water. Let this simmer for ten 
minutes, stirring constantly, so that 
It will not burn. Season well to taste, 
^nd let the ducks simmer well for 
about an hour. 



Broiled Canvasback Ducks 

Canardg Cheval QrUl4s^ 

1 Pair of Ducks. 

1 Tablespoonful of Olive Oil. 

Salt and Pepper. 

Drawn Butter Sauce. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Minced Parsley to Garnish. 

The Canvasback Duck is very ex- 
cellent when broiled. Hunters often 
serve it thus when on long hunts, 
and it is said the taste of the game 
just bagged is beyond estimate. Clean 
'the duck nicely, as for broiling a 
chicken, wipe well and split down the 
middle of the back in the same man- 
ner as for a chicken. Season well 
with salt and pepper. Rub the duck 
well with olive oil of the best quality 
and place on the broiler. Turn it 
over at least twice, so that it will cook 
thoroughly through and through with- 
out burning. Let It cook from seven 
to ten minutes on either side. Place 
on a dish that is very hot, pour over 
a Drawn Butter Sauce, in which you 
have squeezed the juice of a lemon, 
and mixed some minced parsley. Dec- 
orate with watercress or parsley 
sprigs. Bring to the table covered 
and serve very hot on heated plates. 



Stewed Wild Ducks 

Salmi de Carmrd* Sauvages d la Oriole, 

1 Pair of Ducks. 

1 Square Inch of Ham. 2 Onions. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Clove of 

Garlic. 

1 Herb Bouquet, Chopped Very Fine. 

2 Cups of water. 

Clean and pick the ducks nicely. 
Cut into Joints, or stew whole, as de- 
sired. The Creoles generally cut them 
into joints. Rub well with salt and 
pepper. Chop two onions very fine. 
Put them into the stewpan with a 
tablespoonful of melted butter, and 
let them brown lightly. Then add 
the well-seasonea ducks. Let these 
brown well and add the one square 
inch of finely minced ham. Add the 
clove of garlic and two sprigs each 
of thyme, parsley and one bay leaf, 
minced very tine. Let this brown 
with the ducks, stirring frequently, 



Ducks Stewed With Mushrooms 

Salmi dc Canards auw Champignons. 

1 Pair of Ducks. 1 Square Inch of 

Ham. 
2 Onions. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Herb Bouquet, Chopped Very Fine. 

2 Cups of Water. 

1 Can of Mushrooms. 

Prepare the Ducks for cooking ex- 
actly as in the above recipe and pro- 
ceed to cook accordingly. Immediately 
after adding the boiling water add a 
can of mushrooms, and continue 
cooking according to recipe. The 
mushrooms add a delicious flavor to 
the dish. Serve hot, using the mush- 
rooms as a garnish. 



Wild Ducks, Hunters' Style 

Salmi de Canard Sauvages d la Chasseur* 

2 Fine Canvasback Ducks. 

H Pint of Veal Broth or Water. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Dozen Mushrooms, Sliced. 

3 Fresh or Canned Tomatoes. 

1 Onion. 

Lemon Juice. 

% Pint of Sauce Bspagnole. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

CroQtons. 

Pick the ducks; singe, draw, and, 
after rinsing clean inside, wipe neat- 
ly within and without; cut off the 
wings, legs and breasts; then take the 
two carcasses and sprinkle lightly 
with salt and place in the oven to 
bake about six minutes. Then remove 
the carcasses and hash them up. Put 
them into the saucepan; add a pint 
of veal broth, consommS, or water in 
lieu of either of these. Add a herb 
bouquet tied together, and let the 
ingredients simmer for about a quar- 
ter of an hour over a moderate Are. 
Put a tablespoonful of butter into a 
saucepan, and lay in the wings, 
breasts and legs of the Ducks; season 
lightly with salt and pepper, set all 
on a very brisk fire and let cook for 
a few minutes, on either side. Now 
add lemon juice and a half pint of 
Sauce Espagnole and the grated rind 
of a lemon. Take the gravy from the 
carcasses and strain over the Ducks, 
and allow all to cook about a quarter 



122 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLiE COOK BOOK 



cf an hour. Then place on a hot 
d sh and decorate nicely with Crofl- 
tons fried in butter and cut in dice 
shape. 

Ducks & la Boorgeolse 

Salmi de Canardt d la Bourgeoiae 

2 Fine Canvasback Ducks. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

3 Tomatoes (fresh or canned). 

12 Onions. 2 Carrots. Lemon Juice. 

The Rind of 1 Lemon. 

% Pint of Sauce Espa^nole. 

% Pint of Consommd or Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Prepare the Ducks and cook ac- 
cording to above recipe. After plac- 
ins: finally in the saucepan, add twelve 
small onions which have been nicely 
glazed (see recipe Glaze); add the 
two carrots which have been cut into 
small dice and cooked , in salted 
water for t^vo minutes, before add- 
ing to the ducks; also add a half 
ounce of salt pork cut into half-inch 
pieces. Let these cook for fifteen 
minutes with the ducks and serve on 
a hot dish with CroCtons. 



Stewed Ducks With Turnips 

Balmi de Canards aux Naveta 

1 Pair of Ducks. 6 Turnips. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Onions. Chopped Fine. 

1 Square Inch of Ham, Minced Very 

Fine. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

This is one of the most delightful 
ways of cooking wild ducks. The tur- 
nip blends well with the flavor of the 
wild ducks, and a nicer way of serving 
this vegetable in combination does 
not exist. Clean the Ducks, and cut 
into pieces at the joints. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter into the pot, and, 
as it melts, add the onions, chopped 
fine. Let them brown, and then add 
the pieces of Ducks. Let them brown, 
and add the minced ham. Imme- 
diately after add the turnips, sliced or 
quartered, and a tablespoonful of 
sifted flour. Stir well, let the flour 
brown slightly and add the minced 
thyme, parsley and bay leaf, and one 
clove of garlic, minced very fine. Stir 
well again, and let it smother for 
about fifteen minutes, stirring fre- 
quently, so that it will not burn. Then 
add water, almost sufiicient to cover 
the Ducks, and stir well. Cover tight, 
and let the mixture smother for a 
half hour longer. 



Stewed Ducks, Peasant Style 

Salmi de Canards d la Paff$anne 

1 Pair or Fine Ducks. French or 

Canvasback. 
1 Dozen Glazed Onions. 2 Carrota. 
1 Square Inch of Ham. 
1 Cup of Green Peaa 
1 Bay Leaf. 
2 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 
1 Clove of Garlic. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Lemon Juice. 

The Rind of 1 Lemon. 

Prepare the Ducks exactly as in the 
recipe for "Stewed Ducks With Tur- 
nips" (see recipe), only the turnips 
are omitted. Add two carrots cut 
into dice pieces, and twelve glased 
onions and the green peas. Serve on 
a hot dish, with Crofitons fried In 
butter, using the onions as a garnish 
with the Crodtons. 



Stewed Ducks, French Ikfarshal Style 

Salmi de Canards d la Marichale 
Francaise 

1 Pair of Fine Ducks, French or 

Canvasback. 
12 Godiveau Quenelles. 12 Mushrooms. 

2 Onions Chopped Fine. 1 Bay Leaf. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 
1 Clove of Garlic. 1 Square Inch of 

Ham. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Lemon Juice. 

Crodtons to Garnish. 

Prepare the Ducks exactly as In 
the recipe for "Stewed Ducks With 
Turnips," omitting the turnips. Add 
ten minutes before serving, twelve 
small Godiveau Quenelles (see recipe) 
and the lemon Juice. Garnish the 
dish with Crofitons (see recipe) and 
twelve nicely-cooked mushrooms, cut 
in two. Send to the table hot 



Wild Ducks With Olives 

Salmi de Canards auw Olives 

3 Cups of Left-Over Duck. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Onion. 

2 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

2 Cups of Broth or Water. 
2 Dozen Spanish Olives. 

Toasted Croutons. 

This is a nice way to utilize the 
left-over Duck; take all the remains 
of the Duck and select the good parts, 
and cut them into pieces of about an 
inch and a half square. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter into the stewpan, 
and, as it browns, add one onion. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



123 



chopped fine. Stir this brown and 
then add the Duck. Stir well; add 
the tablespoonfui of sifted flour, stir 
again, and in four or five minutes add 
two sprifiTS each of thyme and parsley 
and one bay leaf, minced very fine. 
Let this brown well, and smother 
iiicely for about ten minutes. Add a 
pint of good broth if you have it; if 
not, a cup of boiling water. Stir well, 
and season again according to taste. 
Add about two dozen fine olives, 
stoned. Let all boil for thirty min- 
utes longer, and serve hot, with gar- 
nish of diamond-shaped toasted CroQ- 
tona 

Cold Wild Dock 

Canarda SauvageB Froidt 

Remains of Cold Duck. 

1 Tablespoonfui of Butter. 
Vft Tumbler of Currant Jelly. 

Cut the cold Wild Duck nicely in 
thick slices, and serve with a sauce 
made as follows: Take one table- 
spoonful of butter, one-half tumbler 
of Currant Jelly, and one tablespoon- 
fui of lemon Juice. Warm the butter 
in the saucepan, add the lemon Juice 
and Jelly, thoroughly blended; mix 
well, and serve with the slices of cold 
duck. The duck may also be served 
very deliciously with Currant Jelly 
alone, and buttered toast. 

Teal Duck 

Sarcelle 
The Teal Duck is the smallest and 
most delicate of the wild ducks. It 
is prepared in the same manner as 
the Mallard, preference, however, be- 
ing always given to roasting and broil- 
ing, on account of its size. The Teal 
Duck is always broiled whole, with- 
out splitting the back. 

Teal Ducks Roasted 

Sarcellet R6tie9 

3 Pairs of Teal Ducks. 

6 Thin Strips of Bacon. 

6 Truffles. 1 Tablespoonfui of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

6 Slices of Toast. 
Currant Jelly. 

Clean the duck nicely and put one 
truffle and a lump of butter about the 
size of a peanut, with salt and pep- 
per, on the inside. Rub well with 
salt and pepper and a little butter 
melted. Take a thin strip of bacon 
and bind it around the body of the 
duck, fastening with a skewer. Place 



a tablespoonfui of butter in the roast- 
ing pan, and pour about two table- 
spoonfuls of water in it, dropping 
slightly over each bird. Set in a 
quick oven and bake for thirty min- 
utes, or until done. The bird should 
always be rather underdone. Have 
ready a hot dish, garnished with pars- 
ley, and a slice of toast buttered for 
each bird. Place the birds on them, 
sprinkle over chopped parsley, and 
take the Juice in which the birds have 
been roasted, pour a little over each 
bird, so that it sinks down into the 
toast, and squeeze a little lemon Juice 
over each, and serve hot. 

The truffles may be omitted, even If 
considered very recherche, since the 
bird is Just as good without them. 
Serve with Currant Jelly. 

Teal Duck, Broiled 

Sarcelle OrilUe 

3 Pairs of Teal Ducks. 

€ Strips of Bacon. 

Melted Butter. Chopped Parsley. 

Olives and Slices of Lemon to Garnish. 

6 Slices of Toast. 

Clean and prepare the duck in ex- 
actly the same manner as for roast- 
ing, binding with the strip of bacon. 
Place on a broiler, turning frequently, 
and let it broil for about thirty min- 
utes, very slowly. Serve with melted 
butter and chopped parsley spread 
over, and the Juice of a lemon 
squeezed in. Garnish the dish nicely 
with sprigs of parsley, slices of lemon 
and olives. Serve with Currant Jelly. 

Teal Duck k la Bigarade 

Barcelle d la Bigarade 

3 Pairs of Teal Ducks. 
1 Bigarade or Sour Orange. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A Sauce k I'Espagnole. 

Clean the ducks and take the livers 
and fry them in a little melted butter. 
Season well with salt and pepper and 
a slight pinch of ground allspice and 
cloves and the rind of a "bigarade," 
or sour orange. If the orange is not 
available, take the rind of a lemon. 
The rind is the skin of the orange or 
lemon, scraped off without touching 
the inner pulp, or white skin. Place 
this in the interior of the ducks (you 
must have the boiled livers of five 
or six for the garnishment of two 
ducks), and then rub the outside well 
with salt and pepper. Bind with a 
strip of bacon and place on the 



124 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



broiler. In about thirty minutes it 
will be done. Cook over a slow fire, 
turning frequently. In the meantime 
prepare a "Sauce d. rEspaernole," and 
as soon as the birds are done pour 
off from the broiler all the Juice that 
has fallen, and put this into the sauce 
with the juice of two sour oranges or 
citrons. Let it warm without boiling, 
pour over the birds, which you have 
placed on buttered toast, and serve 
hot. This is an old Creole dish, al- 
most lost in our day, but which de- 
serves to be resurrected. 

Stewed Rablylt 

Salmi de Lapins 

A Pair of Rabbits. 

2 Onions. 1 Square Inch of Ham. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Clove of Garlic, Chopped Very Fine. 

1 Herb Bouquet, Chopped Fine. 

2 Cups of Water. • 

1 Can of Mushrooms. 

Stewed rabbit is a great dish among 
the Creoles, who hold that this is the 
only way to cook a rabbit. Proceed 
as follows: 

Skin and clean the rabbit. Wash 
well and cut into pieces at the Joints, 
and rub well with salt and pepper. 
Chop two onions very fine, and put 
them in the stewpan with a table- 
spoonful of melted butter. Let them 
brown slightly; then add the rabbit. 
Let it brown slightly, and then add 
one tablespoonful of flour, and let 
this brown a little. Chop the square 
inch of ham very fine, mincing it, and 
add. Then add the clove of garlic, 
and two sprigs each of thyme and 
parsley and a bay leaf, minced fine. 
Let this brown nicely and then add 
two cups of boiling water. Stir well, 
season again to ta^te, and let It boil 
for thirty minutes, and serve hot. 
Green peas or potatoes, boiled or 
mashed, make a nice entree for this 
dish. 

Ilabbit, Hunters' Style 

Lapin d la Chasseur 

A Pair of Rabbits. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Onion. 1 Slice of Ham. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 2 Sprigs of Thyme. 

2 Bay Leaves. 
H Box of Mushrooms. The Rind of a 

Lemon. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

CroQtons to Garnish. 

Prepare the rabbit; clean and draw, 
and cut into pieces at the joints. Rub 
well with salt and pepper; put a table- 



spoonful of butter into the saucepan 
with the rabbit and let it brown 
slowly. When nearly brown, add the 
onion, chopped fine, and let this 
brown slightly. Then add the ham^ 
minced very fine, and the clove and 
garlic and bay leaves and thjnne, 
minced very fine. Stir with the rab- 
bit, and let these brown for about two 
minutes; then add a tablespoonful of 
flour and brown for a few minutes; 
then add a quart of consomme and 
let all cook for about one hour. Sea- 
son according to taste. Add a lialf 
can of mushrooms, chopped fine, and 
the rind of a lemon, and again seajson 
to taste. Let all cook for a half hour 
longer and serve on a hot dish, with 
Crofltons fried in butter. 



Rabbit en Aiatelote 

Lapin en Matelote 

A Pair of Rabbits. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Lard or Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

6 Fresh, Large Tomatoes, or a Half Can. 

1 Large Onion, Chopped Fine. 
3 Sprigs Each of Thyme. Sweet Mar- 
joram. Parsley and Bay Leaf. 
The Juice of 1 Lemon. 
1 Quart of Water or Consomme. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
A Dash of Cayenne. 

Skin clean, wash and cut the rabbit 
Into pieces at the Joints. Put the lard 
or butter into a deep stewpan or ket- 
tle. When hot, add gradually two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring con- 
stantly to prevent burning. Throw in 
about ten or twelve well-mashed all- 
spice and three sprigs each of chopped 
thyme, parsley, bay leaf and sweet 
marjoram, one clove of garlic, and 
oi\e large onion, chopped very fine. 
Add six fresh large tomatoes, chopped 
flne, or one-half can of tomatoes. 
Pour In about one quart of water, and 
let It boll well. Then add salt and 
Cayenne to taste, and, when this has 
boiled about five minutes, add the 
rabbit, putting In piece by piece. Add 
the Juice of a lemon, and let all boil 
about ten minutes. Serve with French 
Fried Potatoes, Mashed Potatoes or 
Potato Croquettes. 



HARE 

Li^vre 
The hare and the rabSlt are very 
much alike, the principal difference, 
indeed, being that the rabbit is small- 
er In body and Its ears and legs are 
shorter. 



the: picayune Creole cook book 



126 



The hare may be cooked in almost 
any manner in which rabbits are 
served. There are, however in vogue 
among the Creoles some special 
methods, which are griven below. In 
preparing the hare for roasting, it 
should be first skinned, and then 
washed well in cold water and rinsed 
thoroughly in tepid water. If the 
hare seems a little musty from being 
emptied before being hung up, rub 
the insides well with vinegar and 
again wash thoroughly in warm 
water. Prepare for cooking as you 
would a rabbit, wipe well with a soft 
towel, dress nicely, sew the animal 
up and truss it, and allow it to roast 
from three-quarters of an hour to 
one hour, according to size. Baste 
occasionally with butter, just before 
serving. Many consider the meat far 
more tender and of more delicate 
flavor than the rabbit. It is generally 
served with Currant Jelly. 

Hare, Roosted and Stuifed 

LUvre R6ti 

2 Fine Hares. 3 Onions. 

1 Carrot. 3 Apples. 

2 Ounces of Sausage Meat. 

6 Mushrooms. 1 Lemon. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 1 Bay Leaf. 

2 Cloves. 3 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Glass of Cider. 

1 Pint of Consomme. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Slices of Bacon. 

% Tablespoonful of Pepper. 

% Tablespoonful of Salt. 

CroQtons. 

Select two fine Hares and cut them 
in half. Separate the hindquarters 
from the fore and then bone them 
down to the legs. Do not bone the 
legs. Place the Hares in an earthen 
dish that is quite deep, then make a 
marinade as follows: Pour in a glass- 
ful of cider, add a small lemon nicely 
sliced, and a small onion minced fine, 
one sprig of thyme and one bay leaf, 
all minced very fine. Season this 
tastefully with a tablespoonful of 
Bait and a tablespoonful of pepper 
and two mashed cloves. Take the sad- 
dles of the Hares and roll them well 
in this, and let the ertire Hares steep 
well in the marinade for twelve hours. 

Chop an onion very fine and put it 
in a saucepan on the stove, and. when 
well heated, put in a tablespoonful of 
butter, cook for one minute, and then 
add two ounces of nice chaurlce 
(sausage) (see recipe), chopped very 
fine; six mushrooms, chopped very 



fine; a teaspoonful of minced parsley, 
a teaspoonful of salt and a half tea- 
spoonful ^f pepper; mix well and let 
all cook for about five minutes. Wash 
three tart apples and cut them fine, 
carefully removing the cores; place 
them In a clean saucepan on the fire, 
with a half glassful of the best Cider. 
Let this boll about five minutes, and 
then add the stufiing and mix well 
together. Then set the mixture to 
cool. Take the Hares from the mari- 
nade and stuff the boned saddles very 
carefully and evenly, and give a nice 
round, even shape; tie them to keep 
them firm; then place a fine slice of 
bacon over each saddle, tying firmly. 
Cut up k carrot and onion Into fine 
slices and place In the bottom of the 
roasting pan; lay the Hares over these 
and pour one pint of consomme over 
the Hares. Place them in a hot oven 
and roast for three-quarters of an 
hour, basting frequently with their 
own gravy. Then remove from the 
oven and untie. Place the Hares on 
a hot dish nicely decorated with dice- 
shaped Crotltons, and pour the gravy 
over the Hares and serve very hot. 

Hare, Creole Style 

Civet de Li^vre d la Creole 

1 Fine, Tender Hare. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Large Onion. 1 Dozen Small Onions. 

3 Tomatoes. 

1 Ounce of Minced Ham. 

2 Sprigs of Thyme. 2 Bay Leaves. 

1 Glass of Cider. 

IH Teaspoonfuls of Salt. 

1% Tablespoonfuls of Pepper. 

1 Pint of (;onsomm6 or Water. 

Skin, clean, draw and thoroughly 
wash a fine, tender Hare. Set aside 
the liver and heart. Cut the Hare 
Into pieces at the joints. Make a 
marinade by taking a half glass of 
Cider, one large finely-sliced onion, 
the thyme and bay leaves (finely 
minced), and place in a stone jar. 
Add a half teaspoonful of grated nut- 
meg and a tablespoonful of salt, and 
place in this mixture the cut-up Hare, 
and let all steep for six hours. Then 
lift the pieces out carefully; have 
ready a saucepan In which has been 
melted a teaspoonful of butter, and 
add twelve small onions, glazed 
(see recipe); one ounce of ham, 
minced fine; put the Hare Into the 
pan and let all brown nicely for about 
ten minutes. Then add the flour, 
finely rubbed, stir well and let brown. 



126 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



Add the tomatoes, peeled and sliced 
fine; let all brown ten minutes longer, 
and add the remalnlngr Cider and the 
consomme or water. Stir till it be- 
erins to boil; then season accordins 
to taste, with salt and pepper. Let 
all cook for three-quarters of an 
hour, and add the heart and liver, 
which you must have finely chopped 
and thoroughly mixed together. Let 
all cook for a quarter of an hour 
longer and serve with toasted Crofl- 
tons. 

Stewed Hare With Onions 

Qihelotte de IMvrt 

1 Fine Hare. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Large Onion. 1 Dozen Small Onions. 

1 Ounce of Ham. 

2 Sprigs of Thyme. 2 Bay Leaves. 

H Can of Mushrooms. 

1 Pint of Consomme or Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Prepare in exactly the same man- 
ner as above indicated, only do not 
use the tomatoes. Use one pint of 
broth or consomm4, and add a half 
can of mushrooms about ten minutes 
before serving. 

Filet of Hare Sauce Polvrade 

Filet de IMvre, Sauce Poivrade 

2 Fine Hares. 2 Onions. 

2 Carrots. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard or Butter. 

1V4 Cups of Broth or Water. 

Sauce Polvrade. 

Take two fine hares, clean nicely 
and cut the filets neatly from the rack. 
Lard the surface carefully with fine 
needles. Season well with salt and 
pepper. Make a marinade with one 
cup of broth or water, one onion and 
one carrot, minced very fine. Let all 
steep together for two hours; then 
place the butter or lard in a baking 
dish, with an onion and carrot, sliced 
fine. Put the filets of Hare over this 
and set in the oven and let it cook 
for a half hour. Baste frequently with 
the Hares' own Juices. Place the 
filets on a hot dish, add a tablespoon- 
ful of broth to the gravy in which 



the Hares were cooked; let all come 
to a boil on the stove; strain the 
gravy and pour over the filets. Bring 
to the table hot and serve wltb a 
Sauce Poivrade. 



Stewed Sqolnel 

Salmi d*6cureuil 

A Pair of Squirrels. 

2 Onions. 1 Square Inch of Ham. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Clove of Garlic, Chopped Very Fine. 

1 Herb Bouquet. Chopped Fine. 

2 Cups of Water. 

1 Can of Mushrooms. 

Skin and clean the Squirrels; wash 
well and cut into pieces at the Joints. 
Chop two onions very fine and put 
them in a stewpan with a tablespoon- 
ful of melted butter. Let them brown 
slightly; then add the Squirrel. Let 
it brown slightly, and then add one 
tablespoonful of fiour, and let this 
brown .a little. Chop the square-inch 
of ham 3ry fine, mincing it, and add. 
Then add the clove of garlic, and two 
sprigs each of thyme and parsley and 
a bay leaf, minced fine. Let this brown 
nicely, and then add two cups of 
boiling water. Stir well, season again 
to taste and let it boil for thirty min- 
utes and serve hot. This dish will be 
improved very much, indeed, if a can 
of mushrooms is added immediately 
after adding the water. But it Is very 
nice without the mushrooms. Serve 
very hot. 



Squirrel, Hunters' Style 

Ecureuil d la Chaaseur 
Procure two fine Squirrels, and pre- 
pare in exactly the same manner as 
in the recipe "Rabbit, Hunters' Style." 
(See recipe.) 

Squirrel en Matelote 

Soureuil en Matelote 
Procure two fine Squirrels, and pre- 
pare in exactly the same manner as 
in the recipe for "Rabbit en mate- 
lote." (See recipe.) 



THB PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



127 



CHAPTER XIX 



s 






BIRDS 



ii 




De* 0\%cavLm 



As already mentioned, Louisiana 
points with pride to the quality and 
variety of the Birds found in her for- 
ests. Fine game birds are always 
heavy for their size; the flesh of the 
breast is plump and Arm, and the 
skin clear. To be sure that the bird 
Is fresh if purchased from dealers, 
pluck off a few feathers from the 
Inside of the legs and around the 
vent; in a freshly-killed bird the flesh 
will be fat and fresh-colored; If the 
game has been hung a long time the 
flesh will be dark and discolored. 
These are infallible guides in select- 
ing crame birds. In serving birds, re- 
member that young Green Peas, or 
"Petits Pols Francais," as they are 
generally called, are nice entries for 
all birds. The following are the rec- 
ognized Creole rules and methods 
of preparing our delightful "Fancy 
Game": 

Invariable Rule for Broiling Birds 

Oi%eaux QTi\U% 
Prepare the birds by hand picking. 
If of the very small variety, such as 
grassets, reed birds, etc., do not pick 
out the entrails, for there will be little 
left of the bird but a charred mass. 
Hub the bird well with salt and pep- 
per, and then with melted butter. Tie 
a strip of very flnely-sllced bacon 
around the body of the bird, joining 
with a skewer, and place on a broiler 
over a slow fire, and let it cook for 
ten, fifteen or twenty or even thirty 
minutes, according to the size of the 
bird. Turn frequently, sp that it may 
cook well without burning. When 
done, take off the broiler. Have 
ready always buttered French toasts, 
and place the birds upon them, allow- 
ing a slice of toast for each bird. Trim 
away the rough edges of the toast. 
It is a matter of taste whether the 
strip of bacon be removed or not. But 
in most homes of Creole New Or- 



leans it is retained, being removed at 
the table by the person to whom It 
is served, the hot bacon keeping the 
bird hot, juicy and tender. Always 
pour over the bird a little of the juice 
that has run from It in broiling, and 
let it soak down into the toast. Pour 
over a little melted butter and chopped 
parsley, and lemon juice if you like. 
Garnish with sliced lemon and parsley 
sprigs, and bring to the table hot. 

Invariable Rule for Roasting Birds. 

OiBcaux Rdtis 

Prepare the birds in exactly the 
same manner as for broiling, clean- 
ing out the entrails of the larger birds, 
and leaving the small ones untouched 
with the exception of the Papabotte, 
the gizzards of which must never be 
eaten, for the Papabotte is a very rich 
bird. Rub with salt and pepper and 
melted butter. In the larger birds, if 
you can afford it, put a truffle or two, 
for stuffing, and in all put a little lump 
of butter and a little salt and pepper, 
a pinch of chopped thyme, parsley and 
bay leaf, and a small pinch of the four 
spices, but very, very small indeed. 
Bind with strips of bacon, and place 
in a baking pan with a tablespoonful 
of butter. Let them bake or roast 
thirty minutes or less according to 
size, and serve always on buttered 
French toast, over which you will 
pour, when you have placed the bird 
upon it a bit of the grravy made when 
cooking. Prepare this gravy by simply 
adding a tablespoonful of water, let- 
. ting it cook two minutes; then strain; 
let it cook for two minutes more, and 
pour upon the breast of the bird, so 
that it will soak down liito the toast. 
Garnish nicely with sprigs of parsley 
and lemon, and serve hot. 

Bear in mind that all large game 
should be roasted; the small game 
may be roasted or broiled, according 
to taste. 



128 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



PAPABOTTE. 

The Papabotte is a summer bird, 
and is with us from the latter part of 
the month of June to September. The 
gSLxne laws are very strict, and it is 
not allowed to be killed out of season. 
The first Papabottes in the market, 
like the first Pompano, are much 
sought after. It is a rich bird, and 
is the joy of gourmets. "Papabotte 
k la Creole!" — "Ah!" they will tell 
you, "you have a dish that is enough 
to make a dead man turn alive I" 
Thus prepared, the dish is sometimes 
called "d, la Francais-Cr^ole," not be- 
cause the bird has been ever cooked 
by the French In their own domains, 
for it is unknown in French forests, 
but because the Creoles in cooking it 
to the best advantage, adopt the 
French dressing, which will be ex- 
plained in stuffing the bird, according 
to the following distinctively Creole 
recipe: 

Papabotte & la CHh>1c 

Papabotte A la Creole 

6 Papabottes. 6 Truffles. 
6 Thin Slices of Bacon. 6 S.ices of 

Toast 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

The Hind of a Lemon. The Juice of 1 

Lemon. 

Olives and Sprigs of Parsley to 

Garnish. 

Clean the Papabotte .as you would 
a chicken, and take out the entrails. 
Separate the gizzards, and be sure to 
throw them away, retaining all the 
rest of the entrails for stuffing. Chop 
the remaining entrails very fine, and 
season well with salt and pepper. Fry 
them in about a quarter of a spoon 
of butter. In the meantime take the 
Papabotte and rub well with salt and 
pepper, and put a small piece of but- 
ter, about the size of a peanut, with 
a little salt and pepper, in the Papa- 
botte. Place in it, likewise, one truf- 
fle. Bind a strip of thin bacon around 
the body. Place a tablespoonful of 
butter in a baking dish, and set the 
Papabotte in it, and add about two 
tablespoonfuls of water. Set the dish 
in a quick oven, and let the birds 
roast thirty minutes, turning over 
once, so that they may be perfectly 
done. When the entrails are fried, 
add two inches of the rind of the 
lemon and a little juice. Take slice.s 
of toast, allowing one .slice for each 
bird, and spread over each a coating 
of the entrails, or farcie. Place a 



bird on each slice of toast, after taJc- 
ing off the binding of bacon* or leav- 
ing it on, according to taste. Add one 
spoon of water to the gravy in which 
the Papabottes have been cookins. 
strain it, then warm for two minutes, 
and pour hot on top of the breast of 
the bird, allowing it to melt down into 
the French toasts. Garnish the dtsh 
nicely with sprigs of parsley and 
olives, and serve hot. 



Broiled PaiiabotCe. 

Papabotte GriUi 

^ f^JP.f^^^^^^- ^ Fine Strips of Bacon. 
6 Slices of Buttered French Toast. 
3 Tablespoonfuls of Melted Butter. 
, _ . Juice of 1 Lemon. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parslev. 
Biiced Lemon and Parsley Sprigs to 

Garnish. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean the Papabotte well, removing 
the entrails, and be particularly care- 
ful to throw away the gizzard. Rub 
the birds with salt and pepper and 
then with melted butter. Tie a strfp 
of very finely sliced bacon around the 
body of each bird, joining the bacon 
with a skewer, and place the birds on 
a broiler over a slow fire and let them 
cook fifteen, twenty or even thirty 
minutes, according to the size of the 
birds. Turn frequently, so that they 
may broil without burning. When 
done, take off the broiler; have ready 
the slices of buttered French toast. • 
and place a bird upon each slice. 
Trim away the rough edges of the 
toast. Pour over the birds a little of 
the juice that has run from them in 
broiling, and let this soak down Into 
the toast. Pour over a little melted 
butter and chopped parsley, and add 
a little lemon juice, if desired. Gar- 
ni.sh with slices of lemon and parsley 
sprigs and bring to the table hot. 

Boast Papabotte. 

Papabotte R6ti 

6 Papabottes. 6 Truffles (if desired). 

3 Sprigs of Chopped Thyme and 

Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. Minced. 

6 Thin Strips of Bacon. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Water. 

6 Slices of French Toast. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Sprigs of Parsley and Thin Slices of 

Lemon to Garnish. 

Prepare the Papabottes as indicated 
in the above recipe. Rub with salt 
and pepper and melted butter; put a 
truffle or two into each Papabotte, if 



TUB PICAYUNE CKEOLiE COOK BOOK 



129 



you can afford it, and put in each bird 
a little lump of butter about the size 
of a peanut, a pinch of salt and pep- 
per, and a pinch of chopped thyme 
and parsley and bay leaf. Bind the 
birds with the strips ot bacon and 
place in a baking pan with a table- 
spoonful of butter. Let them bake 
or roast for thirty miinutes or less, 
according to size. When done, place 
each bird on a slice of buttered 
French toast, and pour over it a bit 
of the gravy which you will have 
made by adding to the birds while 
cooking, just four minutes before 
serving, a tablespoonful of water, 
letting it cook for two minutes; then 
strain this gravy, and let it cook two 
minutes more. Garnish nicely with 
sprigs of parsley and sliced lemon and 
serve hot. 

PARTRIDGES. 

Perdreaiw 

The Partridge may be roasted or 
broiled; being a large bird, if roasted 
it may be stuffed with truffles or any 
stuffing, such as oysters or egg, and 
served on toast, as indicated in the 
recipes for broiling and roasting 
birds. 

The term "Perdreaux" Is applied by 
the French to young Partridges, and 
"Perdrix" to the older birds. In the 
young birds the tips of the long wing 
feathers are pointed; in the old birds 
the tips of the wing feathers are 
round. 

Roast Partridge. 

Perdreaum Rdtis, ou Perdreaux Piqu^a 
8ur CanapH 

6 Fine Young Partridges. 

6 Thin Slices of Bacon. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Sprigs of Thyme. 

2 Sprigs of Parsley. 1 Bay Leaf. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Toasted Bread. 

Parsley or Watercress to Garnish. 

Clean, singe and draw and wipe 

the birds neatly; rub each bird well 

with salt and pepper, and then with 

melted butter. If it can be afforded, 

stuff the bird with truffles, placing 

one or two in each bird, and place 

inside the bird a pinch of salt and 

pepper, a lump of butter about the 

size of a peanut, and a pinch of 

chopped thyme, parsley and bay leaf, 

all minced very fine. Bind the birds 

with thin strips of bacon, and fasten 

each strip with a skewer. Put the 

Partridges in a baking pan in a brisk 



oven, and add two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and one of water. Let them 
bake from twenty-five to thirty min- 
utes, according to size, basting occa- 
sionally with their own juice. When 
done, have ready the buttered French 
toast; place the birds upon the 
toast and pour over a bit of the grravy 
made when cooking. Prepare this 
gravy by adding two tablespoonfuls 
of water to the Partridge juice after 
removing the birds; let it cook for 
two minutes, and then strain and let 
it cook two minutes more. Pour upon 
the breast of the birds, so that it will 
soak into the toast. Garnish the dish 
nicely with sprigs of parsley or water- 
cress and serve hot. 



Roa^t Partridge, Broad Sauce. 

Perdreaux R6H8, Sauce au Pain 

3 Pine Young Partridges. 

Slice of Toast Bread. 

1% Ounces of Fresh Bread Crumbs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
% Cup of Cold Water. 

% Cup of Cream or Milk. 

V^Teaspoonful of Salt. 

6 White Peppers. 

Prepare the Partridges and roast 
according to recipe for "Roast Par- 
tridge." (See recipe.) Make a bread 
sauce as follows: Crumble one and 
a half ounces of fresh bread crumbs 
and place in a saucepan with a half 
cup of cold water; add, when the 
water heats, a tablespoonful of butter, 
six whole white peppers and a half 
teaspoonful of salt. Cook for five 
minutes; then add a half cup of rich 
milk or cream. Let the whole cook 
five minutes more. Remove the white 
peppers. Place the Partridges on the 
toasted bread, and garnish the dish 
nicely with parsley sprigs or water- 
cress. Send to the table hot with 
the sauce in a separate dish. Pour 
the sauce over the Partridges when 
serving. 

Broiled Partridges. 

Perdreaux OrilUs 

3 Fine Young Partridges. 
6 Slices of French Toast. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Bytter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

The Juice of a Lemon. 
Parsley Sprigs and Sliced Lemon to 

Garnish. 

Prepare the birds as In the above 
recipe. Cut them in two by splitting 
down the back, as in broiling a chick- 
en. Rub with salt and pepper and 
melted butter. Place on a broiler 



130 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



and let them broil from fifteen to 
twenty minutes, allowinfr from seven 
to ten minutes, according to the size 
of the bird, to either side during the 
broiling process. Turn frequently to 
avoid burning. , Have ready the but- 
tered French toast; place the birds 
upon it and pour over a little of the 
Juice that ran from the bird while 
broiling. Let it soak down in the 
bread; pour over melted butter and 
chopped parsley, and add a littlo 
lemon juice, if desired. Garnish the 
dish nicely with sprigs of parsley or 
watercress and send to the table hot. 



Partridges Hunters' Style. 

Pcrdrix 8aut6e8 d la Chasaeur 

3 Fine Partridges. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Finely Chopped Onion. 12 Whole 

Mushrooms. 

2 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

IMi Cups of Water or Consommd. 

CroQtons. 

The older birds are used for stew- 
ing purposes. Clean the Partridges; 
singe, draw and wipe well. Cut up 
the birds as you would a young chick- 
en. Rub well with salt and pepper, 
and place in a stewpan with two ta- 
blespoonfuls of butter. After letting 
them brown well on either side, about 
three minutes, add the finely chopped 
onion and carrot, and the minced 
herbs. Let these brown for two min- 
utes, and add the flour and let all 
brown nicely. Then add a cup of 
water or consommfi and the chopped 
mushrooms. Cover closely and cook 
for fifteen minutes and then serve, 
using toasted Crodtons as garnish. 

Partridge, Creole Style. 

Perdrix Saut6c% d la Creole 

3 Fine Partridpres. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

3 Large Tomatoes. 

2 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

1% Cups of Water or Consommd. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

CroQtons to Garnish. 

Clean the Partridges; singe, draw 

and wipe well. Cut up the birds as 

for Fricasseed Chicken. Rub well 

with salt and pepper and place in a 

stewpan, and let them brown well on 

either side. Then add the finely 

chopped onion and the herbs, minced 

very fine. Let these brown and add 



the tablespoonful of flour. Let bro^irn 
nicely, and add the chopped tomatoes 
and their juice; cover and let simmer 
about five minutes, and then add a 
cup and a half of water or consom.ni4. 
Cover closely and let all cook for fif- 
teen minutes and serve hot, using 
toasted Crodtons for a garnish. 

Partridge With Soar Orange Saaoe. 

Pt 'dreauw aux Bigaradea 

3 Fine Partridges. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
The Juice of a Sour Orange. 

Toasted CroQtons. 
Watercress or Parsley to Garnish. 

Broil the Partridges according to 
recipe for "Broiled Partridge." (See 
recipe.) Prepare a "Drawn Butter 
Sauce" (see recipe), and add the 
Juice and rind of a sour orange. Pour 
over the birds and let it soak down 
into the toast. Serve hot, with gar- 
nishes of parsley or watercress. 

Partridge k la Flnanddre. 

Perdreaux d la Financiire 
Potage aux Nouilles 

3 Fine Young Partridges. 

1 Carrot. 1 Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 

2 Sprigs of Thyme. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Salt. 

1 Tablespoonful of Pepper. 

A Dash of Cayenne. 

2 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1% Pints of Consomme or Water. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 3 Truflles. 

2 Dozen Stoned Olives. 

3 Blanched Chicken Livers. 

1 Dozen Mushrooms. 

1 Dozen Quenelles of Veal or Chicken. 

Clean the partridges according to 
the recipe given. Singe, draw, wipe 
well and then truss neatly. Rub well 
w^ith salt and pepper. Take a piece 
of fat salt pork and cut into strips 
and lard the partridges with these 
thin strips, using a larding needle. 
Then put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
Into a shallow saucepan, let the but- 
ter melt, add the onion and carrot, 
sliced fine, and the minced parsley 
and bay leaf; lay the partridges over 
these, cover the saucepan and let the 
partridges brown till they reach a 
nice golden color. Then add a half 
pint of chicken or veal consomme, or 
if these are not to be had add a half 
pint of water. Cover the saucepan 
and let them simmer down for twenty 
minutes, turning occasionally, so that 
they may be thoroughly cooked. Then 
remove the birds, placing them on a 
hot dish in the oven. Make a Sauce 



THE PICAYUNE CREOUS COOK BOOK 



131 



k la Flnancldre by adding: to the 
gravy In which the partridges were 
cooked one tablespoonful of flour; let 
it brown and add one and one-half 
pints of rich chicken broth, one ta- 
blespoonful of butter, three sliced 
truffles, two dozen stoned olives, three 
blanched chicken livers cut in pieces, 
one dozen mushrooms, one dozen 
small balls or quenelles (see recipe) 
of minced veal or chicken (may be 
omitted). Season well with salt and 
pepper, and add a dash of Cayenne. 
Let all cook for twenty minutes, using 
a wooden spoon to stir. The sauce 
should be of the consistency of rich 
cream. After twenty minutes place 
the partridges back in the sauce and 
let them warm for about three or 
four minutes. Place in the dish, pour 
the sauce over them and serve hot 
with garnish of toasted Crotltons. 



Partridge and Cabbage. 

Perdria auw Choux 

3 Pine Partridges. 

A Fine. Tender Head of Cabbage. 

12 Claurlce (Sausage). ^ of a Pound 

of Salt Pork. 

1 Onion. 1 Carrot. 4 Cloves. 

% Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Herb 

Bouquet. 

1 Pint of Veal or Chicken Broth 

(White). 

1 Pint of Beef Broth or Water. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean the partridges, selecting 
large and older partridges in prefer- 
ence to the young. Clean, singe, draw 
and wipe well. Then truss them 
neatly, rub with salt and pepper and 
butter and place in a roasting pan. 
In the meantime take a fine, tender 
head of ' cabbage, clean thoroughly 
and cut Into four parts. Wash the 
cabbage well in cold water and put 
into boiling salted water for five min- 
utes. Then take the cabbage out of 
the water and drain well; make a 
hollow in the center of each piece 
of cabbage; place Inside the par- 
tridges, cover with the other pieces 
^nd tie together. Put in a saucepan 
the quarter of a pound of salt pork 
which has been well scalded and 
washed of all salt and cut into six 
slices. Add one carrot cut into four 
pieces, one whole onion into which 
you will have stuck four cloves, the 
herb bouquet, the sausage and one 
pint each of white veal broth or 
chicken broth, and one pint of water 
or beef broth. Season with a small 



pinch of salt, and a good pinch of 
pepper, and place the cabbage in this 
preparation. Put the partridges in 
the oven and let them roast for ten 
minutes. Then remove and take the 
cabbage from the mixture, make a 
hollow in the center of the cabbage, 
plac^ the partridges inside and cover 
with the remaining portion of cab- 
bage; tie each half separately, then 
carefully return to the saucepan, plac- 
ing a piece of buttered paper over to 
keep the juicy steam from escaping. 
Cover the saucepan, set in the oven 
and let the partridges cook thus for 
an hour. Remove the lid and paper, 
skim o£C all that may adhere to the 
surface, drain the cabbage and slice; 
dress neatly on a hot dish. Untruss 
the partridges and lay them on the 
cabbage, placing on each dressed sec- 
tion a piece of sliced boiled pork, a 
sausage cut in half; slice the carrots 
nicely in round pieces, and use these 
as a decoration, placing them artisti- 
cally around the dish. Strain the 
sauce in which the partridges were 
cooked and let it reduce slightly. 
Serve with the cabbage and partridge, 
bringing it to the table In a separate 
bowl and pouring over the cabbage 
when serving. 



Chartreuse of Partridge. 

Charteuae de Perdrix 

3 Pine Partridges. 

A Fine, Tender Head of Cabbage. 

12 Chaurice (Sausage).. % Pound of 

Salt Pork. 

3 Small Onions. 

2 Turnips. 2 Carrots. 4 Cloves. 

1% Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

% Cup of Green Peaa 

1 Herb Bouquet. 

\yk Pints of Veal or Chicken Broth. 

1 Pint of Consomm6. 

Prepare the partridges and cabbage 
exactly as for the recipe "Partridges 
and Cabbage." 

Butter a three-pint mold lightly; 
cut the turnips, carrots and onion into 
small even pieces, using a vegetable 
tube; put a layer of the cut vegeta- 
bles in the bottom of the mold; put 
on top a layer of the cooked cabbage, 
cut the partridges into pieces and 
place a layer of them on the cabbage, 
filling in the hollow spaces with cab- 
bage chopped fine and the chopped 
vegetables; fill in further with the 
sliced sausage and lay on top six 
slices of the salt pork; then put on 
another layer of the partridges, fill 



132 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



in the hollow places with the sliced 
turnips and carrots and onions and 
the sausage; place on top another 
layer of cabbagre, covering it over 
well with the cabbage and pressing 
down very carefully; decorate the 
mold prettily around the edges with 
the sliced carrots and turnips and 
place in a tin baking pan and set in 
a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. 
Have at hand a hot dish, turn the 
mold upside down and remove it with 
the greatest care. Send to the table 
hot, and serve with a sauce. 

Breasts of Partridge, Truffle Sancc. 

Supr^mea de Pcrdreaux, Sauce Perigueuw 

i Fine Young Partridges. 

3 Truffles. 

12 Mushrooms. 

2 Ounces of Sauce A la Hollandaise. 

Lemon Juice. 

Clean, singe, draw and wipe che 
partridges carefully. Then remove 
the skin from the breasts. With a 
sharp knife make an incision on the 
top of each breastbone from end to 
end and cut ott the entire breast, in- 
cluding the wing bone, from the car- 
cass. Carefully remove the small filet 
which lies under each breast and 
p^ace on a dish aside for further use. 
Then cut an incision two inches 
square and just one inch deep in 
each breast, and on the inner side. 
Rub well with salt and pepper, and 
stuff the incision with two tablespoon- 
fuls of chicken forcemeat, to which 
have been added six finely chopped 
mushrooms and two thinly sliced truf- 
fles. Butter the inside of a tin sauce- 
pan and lay the six breasts very care- 
fully in it. Then, take each of the 
six small filets that have been laid 
a.side; rub them well with salt and 
pepper, now make a small incision in 
the top of each and place inside a 
thin slice of truffle and brush lightly 
with melted butter. Lay these filets 
on top of each of the breasts, and 
again brush lightly with melted but- 
ter. These filets and breasts thus 
arranged form the supreme. Pour 
into the pan two tablespoonfuls of the 
chicken liquor and some lemon juice, 
cover the pan tightly and place in a 
hot oven for fifteen minutes. 

Make one pint of Hollandaise Sauce, 
add one finely minced truffle and a 
half dozen minced mushrooms. Place 
the sauce In a saucepan of hot boil- 
ing water and let it heat slowly 



without boiling. Pour this sauce Into 
a hot dish and then take the pan 
with the partridges out of the oven« 
remove the breasts and filets, or "su- 
preme," place them on the dish with 
the sauce, garnish nicely with Crofl- 
tons and send to the table hot. 



QUAHi. 

Oaillcs 

The Quail is* a most delicious and 
tempting bird. It delights the most 
fastidious, and that famous prepara- 
tion, "Quail on Toast," or "Cailles sur 
Canapes," is a dish without which no 
great dinner is considered complete 
when quail are in season. 

We have two kinds of quail, the 
blue and the yellow spotted, or pivele. 
Both are excellent. If purchased in 
the market or city stores, see that 
the skin is clear and the breasts full 
and tender. The Quail is either 
broiled or roasted, following exactly 
the same directions given in the rec- 
ipes for broiling and roasting. In 
broiling, allow from twelve to fifteen 
minutes. In roasting, from twenty 
to twenty-five. Always cook slowly 
on a" low fire. 



Roasted Quafl. 

CaUlea R6tie» 

6 Quails. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Water. 

The Juioe of 1 Lemon. 

6 Slices of Toast. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Sliced Lfemon and Parslev Sprigs, or 

Watercress to Garnish. 

Select six fine, fat, tender Quail. 
Pick, singe, clean and wipe them well. 
Butter the Inside of each Quail nicely 
and sprinkle lightly Inside with salt 
and pepper. Rub lightly on the out- 
side with butter, then truss the bird 
and bind the body round with a thin 
strip of bacon. Put a tablespoonful 
of butter in a roasting pan and set 
the birds in the pan and cook in the 
oven from twenty to thirty minutes, 
according to size. Have ready the 
buttered toast. Place on a hot dish, 
lay a bird on each slice of toast. Add 
a little butter to the gravy in which 
the Quails have been roasted, a table- 
spoonful of water and the Juice of 
one lemon. Let this cook for three 
or four minutes, strain and set on the 
stove for two minutes longer and pour 



tm 



TUK PICAYUNE Creole: cook book 



133 



over the breast of the birds so that 
It will soak into the bread. Garnish 
the dish nicely with parsley and sliced 
lemon or fresh sliced watercress, and 
send to the table hot. When served 
with a garnish of watercress {he dish 
is called **Cailles auz Cressons.** 



Quail Roasted in Grape Leaves. 

Cailles aua FeuUlea de Viffnea 

6 Fine Quails. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Water. The Juice 

of 1 Lemon. 

6 Sllices of Buttered Toast 

12 Grape Leaves. 

Green Grape Jelly. 

Follow the directions given in the 
above recipe for roasting Quails, only 
do not wrap the Quails In strips of 
bacon. Instead, rub the bodies well 
with butter and then wrap up the 
birds in fresh grape leaves; set in a 
baking pan and proceed to roast ac- 
cording to the directions given above. 
Garnish a dish nicely with fresh 
young grrape leaves, place the Quails 
on slices of toast and lay upon the 
leaves and send the dish to the table 
hot. Serve the Quails with Green 
Grape Jelly. This is, of course, a 
rare di^h, but is much affected by epi- 
cures. The grape leaves impart a 
very peculiar and delicate flavor to 
the Quail. 

Roasted Quail — 'So. 2. 

CaiUes R6tics 

6 Fine. Tender Quail. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Water. 6 Truffles. 

6 Thin Strips of Bacon. The Juice of 

1 Lemon. 
Parsley Sprigs and Sliced Lemon to 

Garnish. 

To make this delicious dish, clean 
the Quail and butter inside and throw 
in a little salt and .pepper. Stuff with 
truffles, and bind the* body, after rub- 
bing, with a strip of bacon. Set in 
the oven in a baking pan in which you 
have placed a tablespoonful of but- 
ler, and let it roast twenty or thirty 
minutes, according to size. Have 
ready buttered toast. Put the birds 
on the toast. Add a little butter to 
the gravy in which they have been 
roasted, and a tablespoonful of water 
and the juice of a lemon. Let this 
cook for three or four minutes, strain, 
set on the stove for two minutes 
longer, and pour over the breast of 
the bird, so that it will soak into the 



bread, and serve with a nice garnish 
of parsley and sliced lemon, and with 
green peas as an entr4e. 

Broiled Quail on Toast. 

Cailles OrilUea but Canapes 

6 Pine. Fat Quail. 6 Strips of Bacon. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
6 Slices of Buttered Toast. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 
Parsley Sprigs to Garnish. 

Rub the bird well with salt and 
pepper, and then with melted butter. 
Tie a strip of very finely sliced bacon 
around the body of the bird. Joining 
with a skewer, and place on a broiler 
over a slow fire, and let it cook for 
, ten, fifteen or twenty, or even thirty 
minutes, according to the size of the 
bird. Turn frequently, so that it may 
cook well without burning. When 
done take off the broiler. Have ready 
always buttered French toasts, and 
place the birds upon them, allowing 
a slice of toast for each bird. Trim 
away the rough edges of the toast. 
It is a matter of taste whether the 
strip of bacon be removed or not, 
the hot bacon keeping the bird hot, 
juicy and tender. Always pour over 
the bird a little of the juice that has 
run from it in broiling, and let it 
soak down into the toast. Pour over 
a little melted butter and chopped 
parsley, and lemon juice, if you like. 
Garnish with sliced lemon and pars- 
ley sprigs, and bring to the table hot. 

Quails BroUed With Bacon 

Cailleg OrilUea et Bardies 

6 Fine, Fat Quails. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Salt. % Table- 

spoonful of Pepper. 
6 Slices of Bacon. 6 Slices of Toast. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Sauce a la Mattre 

d*Hotel. 

Watercress and Sliced Lemon to 

Garnish. 

Clean the Quail, singe and wipe 

well. Split them through the back 

without separating the breast and 

break the leg bones. Rub well with 

salt and pepper and a little melted 

butter, mixed together, and put the 

Quail on a broiler, letting them broil 

on a moderate fire for fifteen minutes, 

allowing seven and a half minutes to 

either side, and turning frequently to 

prevent burning. Have ready a hot 

dish with six slices of buttered toast, 

lay the Quail on top, pour over all 

a little melted butter (Sauce & la 



134 



THE PICAYUXE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



Mattre d'Hotel), and then decorate 
the dish with parsley spriers, on which 
lay six nicely broiled slices of break- 
fast bacon. 

Smotbered QualL 

CaUles SraiBB^es 

6 Fine. Fat Quails. % Carrot. 

% of an Onion. Vi Cupful of Water. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

6 Thin Strips of Bacon. 

Select fine, fat Quail, clean, singre 
and wipe well. Truss neatly and cover 
with a thin layer of bacon. Then 
place two tablespoonfuls of butter in 
a saucepan; place the Quail in the 
pan; add half of an onion and carrot 
minced very fine, cover and let the 
Quail brown to a nice golden color. 
Then moisten with a half cup of 
water and set the pan in the oven. 
Cover with buttered paper and let 
the Quail cook for twenty minutes. 
Serve on a hot dish nicely garnished 
with parsley sprigs or lettuce leaves. 



Braised Quail, Celery Sauce. 

CaUlca Brai86c8 d la Sauce Cdleri 

Proceed to clean and cook the 

Quail as in the recipe given above 

and serve with a pint of hot Celery 

Sauce (see recipe) poured over them. 

Quail Braised k la Flnanci^rc. 

Cattlea Braiaaiea d la Financi^re 
Braise the Quail, as in the recipe 
for "Braised Quail" and serve with 
a pint of hot Sauce k la Financi&re.. 

WOODCOCK. 

B6ca98e 

The "B^casse" is a rare bird. It is 
in season from December till April. 
In purchasing see that the skin is 
clear, the breasts firm and plump and 
the wings teQder to the touch. 

Pluck and clean, but never draw 
these birds. If you were to serve the 
B^casse to an old Creole bon vivant 
without the entrails he would con- 
sider it quite shocking, and his indig- 
nation would vent itself immediately 
in unmistakable terms. The "B^casse** 
is always broiled or roasted and 
served on buttered French toast. If 
roasted, always put, if you, can, one 
truffle in the body as a stuffing, and 
when serving a little melted button 
on top of the breast. 



Roast Woodcock on Toast. 

B€ca%»e% R6tie» «ur Canapia 

6 Fine Woodcock. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

6 Slices of Buttered Toast. 

6 Strips of Bacon. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

Sliced Lemon and Sprigs of Parsley or 

Watercress to Garnish. 

Prepare the birds as in the **In va- 
riable Rule for Roasting Birds." (See 
recipe. ) 

Rub with salt and pepper and 
melted butter, put a truffle in each 
bird for stuffing, and in all put a 
little lump of butter and a little salt 
and pepper, a pinch of chopped 
thyme, parsley and bay leaf, and a 
small pinch of the four spices, 
but very, very small, indeed. Truss 
neatly. Bind with strips of bacon, 
and place in a baking pan with a ta- 
blespoonful of butter. Let them bake 
or roast thirty minutes or less, ac- 
cording to size; remove from the oven 
and place on buttered French toast 
on a hot dish, cover and set over a 
pot of boiling water to keep warm. 
Prepare gravy by simply adding a 
tablespoonful of water to the juice 
made when cooking the birds, let it 
cook for two minutes; then strain; 
let it cook for two minutes more and 
pour upon the breast of the bird so 
that it will soak down into the toast. 
Garnish nicely with sprigs of pars- 
ley and lemon, and serve hot. 



Broiled Woodcock on Toast. 

B6ca88e8 OrilUea aur Canap69 

6 Fine, Fat Woodcock. 6 Slices of 

Buttered French Toast. 

6 Fine Strips of Breakfast Bacon. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Parsley Sprigs, and Sliced Lemon to 

Garnish. 

Prepare the birds by hand picking. 
Singe and wipe well. Rub the bird 
well with salt and pepper, and then 
with melted butter. Tie a strip of 
very finely sliced bacon around the 
body of the bird. Joining with a 
skewer, and place on a broiler over a 
slow fire, and let it cook for ten, fif- 
teen or twenty, or even thirty min- 
utes, according to the size of the bird. 
Turn frequently so that it may cook 
well without burning. When done 
take off the broiler. Have ready al- 
ways buttered French toasts, and 
place the birds upon them, allowing 
a slice of toast for each bird. Trim 
away the rough edges of the ' toast. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



135 



Always pour over the bird a little of 
the Juice that has run from it in 
broiling:, and let it soak down into 
the toast. Pour over a little melted 
butter and chopped parsley, and 
lemon Juice, if you like. Garnish with 
sliced lemon and parsley sprigs, and 
bring to the table hot. In cooking, 
and in serving, follow the ''Invariable 
Rule for Broiling Birds." (See rec- 
ipe.) 

SNIPE. 
Bicassine 

The Snipe is one of our finest birds, 
and is much sought after by epicures. 
But the glory of our Louisiana forests 
is that the rich gifts of nature may 
be had by the poor as well as the 
millionaire. 

The B^cassine Is a welcome dish at 
the most exclusive tables. It is a win- 
ter bird, and is with us from Decem- 
ber till April, as also the ''B^casse.'* 
or "Woodcock." If you tell an old 
Creole that you are going to treat 
him to "B^cassines" or "B6casses," 
he will smack his lips and say: "Ah! 
you are a connoisseur." 

"B^cassiner" are either roasted or 
broiled; follow implicitly the direc- 
tions given in the rules for broiling 
and roasting birds. Serve in the same 
manner, with garnish of cresses or 
parsley, and always on buttered 
French toasts. In selecting Snipe, see 
that the flesh is clear and firm and 
the breasts full and tender. 

Roast Snipe on Toast. 

BScasaines R6tie8 sur Canapia 

6 Fine Snipe 6 Slices of Buttered 

French Toast. 6 Strips of Bacon. 

2 Tabiespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

Sliced Lemon and Sprigs of Parsley or 

Watercress to Garnish. 

Prepare the birds as in the "Invari- 
able Rule for Roasting Birds." Rub 
with salt and pepper and melted but- 
ter. If you can afford it, put a truffle 
into each bird for stuffing, and in all 
put a little lump of butter and a little 
salt and pepper, a pinch of chopped 
thyme, parsley and bay leaf, and a 
small pinch of the four spices, but 
very, very small, indeed. Bind with 
strips of bacon, and place in a bak- 
ing pan w'th a tablespoonful of but- 
ter. Let them roast thirty minutes 
or less, according to size, then remove 
and place always on buttered French 
toast on a hot dish, and cover and 



set over a pot of boiling water to keep 
warm and Juicy. Meanwhile prepare 
a gravy by simply adding a table- 
spoonful of water to the gravy made 
In cooking the birds; let It cook for 
two minutes; then strain; let it cook 
for two minutes more and pour a 
little upon the breast of each bird, 
so that it will soak down Into the 
toast. Garnish nicely with sprigs of 
parsley or watercress and slices of 
lemon, and serve hot. 

Broiled Snipe on Toast. 

B^casainea Orilliea aur Canap^a- 

6 Fine Fat Snipe. 6 Slices of Buttered 
French Toast. 6 Strips of Bacon. 

2 Tabiespoonfuls of Butter. Parsley 
Sprigs and Sliced Lemon to Garnish. 

Prepare the bird by hand picking, 
singeing and trussing neatly, follow- 
ing the "Invariable Rule for Broiling 
Birds." (See recipe.) 

Rub the bird well with salt and 
pepper, and then with melted butter. 
Tie a strip of very finely sliced bacon 
around the body of the bird. Joining 
with a skewer, and place on a broiler 
over a slow fire and let it cook for 
ten, fifteen or twenty, or even thirty, 
minutes, according to the size of the 
bird. Turn frequently, so that it may 
cook well without burning. When 
done take off the broiler. Have ready 
always buttered French toasts, and 
place the birds upon them, allowing 
a slice of toast for each bird. Trim 
away the rough edges of the toast. 
It Is a matter of taste whether the 
strip of bacon be removed or not. Al- 
ways pour over the bird a little of 
the Juice that has run from It in 
broiling, and let it soak down into the 
toast. Pour over a little melted but- 
ter and chopped parsley, and lemon 
Juice If you like. Garnish with sliced 
lemon and parsley sprigs, and bring 
to the table hot. 

Grassets, Reed Birds, Broiled or 
Roasted. 

Oraaaeta, Ortolana, GrUUa ou R6tia 

6 or 8 Birds. 6 or 8 Slices of Toast. 

2 Tabiespoonfuls of Butter. 

6 or 8 Strips of Bacon. Salt and Pepper 

to Taste. 

Sliced Lemon and Sprigs of Parsley or 

Watercress to Garnish. 

Grassets and Reed Birds are de- 
lightful small game that come In the 
summer. They are with us from 
July through October. The Reed 
Birds, or Ortolans, are the terror of 



136 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



the rice planters of Louisiana. They 
peck at the rice and spoil the growth, 
and are, consequently, shot in this 
season, when the rice is maturing, in 
order to rid the rice fields of their 
presence. The name Orasset is griven 
to indicate fatness and plumpness. 
These birds are always broiled or 
roasted, following the invariable rules 
laid down above. They should be 
broiled over a clear fire, and do not 
require much more than five minutes 
to broil; ten minutes to roast in a 
quick oven. Serve, whether broiled 
or roasted, on buttered French toast, 
and garnish with cresses or parsley 
sprigs. All small birds should be 
broiled "en brochette," that is, a 
skewer should be run through the 
body. Salt and pepper after, and 
pour melted butter and chopped pars- 
ley over them. If roasted, they may 
be served with a brown grravy. 

Pottles d'E^u. 

Poulea d'Eau 

2 Pairs of Poules d'Eau. 

6 Turnips. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

2 Onions, Chopped Fine. 

1 Square Inch of Ham, Minced Fine. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

The Poule d'Eau is a species of 
water duck resembling both a chicken 
and a duck. The Creoles gave it the 
name of '*Poules d'Etau," or "Water 
Chicken." As it lives entirely in the 
water and marshes, never coming on 
dry land, it is classed among the fish 
and served as a Friday or fast-day 
dish. It makes a very delightful en- 
tree, either stewed plain or with tur- 
nips. It is never cooked In any other 
way. As it feeds much on fish, it 
often has the flavor of fish. In the 
hands of an Inexperienced cook It Is 
sometimes unpalatable on that ac- 
count. Before cooking parboil a few 
minutes if there Is the slightest odor 
of fish; add a small peeled carrot or 
onion to the water and this will ab- 
sorb the fiavor of fish. 

Stewed Poules d'Eau 

Poules d'Eau d la Creole 

1 Pair of Poules d'Eau. 

1 Square Inch of Ham. 2 Onions. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Clove of 

(iHrlio, 1 Herb Bouquet, Chopped 

Very FLe. 1 Cup of Water. 

1 Can of Mushrooms, 

Clean and pick the Poules d'Eau 

nicely. Cut into joints or stew whole. 



as desired. Rub well with salt a.nd 
pepper. Chop two onions very fine. 
Put them into the stewpan witH & 
tablespoonful of melted butter, and 
let them brown slightly. Then suld 
the well-seasoned ducks. Let these 
brown well, and add the one square- 
Inch of finely minced ham. (Omit tlie 
ham on fast days.) Add the clove of 
garlic and two sprigs each of thyme, 
parsley and one bay leaf, minced very 
fine. Let this brown with the Poules 
d'Eau, stirring frequently, and then 
pour over one cup of boiling water. 
Season well to taste, and let them 
simmer well for about an hour. Serv^e 
hot with Oodtons for a garnish. 

Stewed Poules d'Eau With Turnips. 

Salmi dc Poulvn d'Eau uujb Navets 

1 Pair of Poules d'lOau. 6 Turnips. 

1 TableHpoonful of Butter. 

2 Onions Cliopped Fine. 

1 Square Inch oT Ham. Minoed Very 

Fine. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

This is the most delightful way of 
cooking Poules d'Kau. The turnip 
blends well with the flavor, and & 
nicer way of serving this vegetable in 
combination does not exist. Clean the 
Poules d'Eau and cut Into pieces at 
the joints. Put a tablespoonful of 
butter Into the pot, and as It melts 
add the onions, chopped fine. Let this 
brown and then add the pieces of 
Poules d'Eau. Let them brown, and 
add the minced ham. (Omit the ham 
on fast days.) Immediately after add 
the turnips, sliced or cut in quarters, 
and a tablespoonful of sifted flour. 
Stir well, let It brown slightly, and 
add the minced thyme, parsley and 
bay leaf, and one clove of garlic, 
minced very fine. Stir well again, and 
let It smother for about fifteen min- 
utes, stirring frequently, so that it 
will not burn. Then add water al- 
most sufficient to cover the Poules 
d'Eau, and stir well. Cover tight and 
let the mixture' smother for a half 
hour longer. 

Game Pic 

P&U de Gilder 

1 Dozen Small Birds. 1 Dozen Bggs. 

A Rich Pie Crust. 

1 Dozen Hard- Boiled Eggs. 

2 Cups of E^g Dressing. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean one dozen small birds. Snipe, 
Quail, Woodcock, etc., and wash well. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOUB COOK BOOK 



137 



Inside and out. Stu-ff each one with 
a dressing the same as for turkey, 
'using: either egg or oysters as desired. 
Loosen the joints with a knife, but 
do not separate them. Put them in a 
stewpan, with water enough to cover 
them, and let them cook till nearly 
tender. Then season with salt and 
pepper again and two tablespoonfuls 
of butter. Thicken the gravy with 
one tablespoonful of ftour, let cook 
for ten minutes more and then re- 
move and set to cool. Butter a pud- 
ding dish and line the sides with a 
rich pie crust (see recipe). Have 
ready the hard-boiled eggs, cut in 
slices. Put in a layer of the eggs 
and a layer of the birds until the 
dish is full. Pour over the gravy and 
then cover the pie with a crust and 
bake to a light brown. 

The pie may also be made very 
nicely by stewing the birds as one 
would a chicken (see recipe), then 
lining a pie pan with a rich pie 
crust; bake lightly, fill In with the 
stewed birds, pour over the gravy, 
place a cover of the pie crust on top, 
set in the oven and bake to a light 
brown. 

Chaud-Frold of Game 

Chaud^Froid de Gihier 

The Breasts of 3 Ducks, or 1 Dozen 
Breasts of Small Game. 

1 Cup of Chicken Forcemeat. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Pint of Aspic Jelly. 
1 Pint of Poulette Sauce. 
3 Truffles. 
Watercress to Garnish. 

This is a most recherche dish, sel- 
dom made in these days on account 
of the cost, but in old Creole days it- 
was a standing dish at every great 
feast. It may be made with Canvas- 
back or French or Teal Duck, or with 



Woodcock, Snipe and other small 
game. The dish demands such beau- 
tiful decoration that it requires an 
artist to make a real Creole Chaud- 
Froid. 

CHean the ducks or game or spring 
chicken, if the latter is used; wash 
and truss neatly. Then wrap in but- 
tered paper and smother according to 
recipe for Smothered Chicken (see 
recipe). When done take out of the 
paper and separate the breasts of the 
game or chicken from the legs. Trim 
them neatly and stuff the portion be- 
tween the breasts proper and the 
filets with a chicken forcemeat. (See 
recipe.) Mix together equal parts of 
Aspic Jelly and Poulette Sauce. (See 
recipes.) Stir till thick and surround 
with crushed ice. Then dip the 
breasts of the game or chicken into 
this mixture. Take a fine baking 
sheet or dish and arrange the breasts 
in fanciful or pyramidal figures on 
this dish, and when set decorate them 
nicely with sliced truffles and the 
remaining sauce that has been poured 
into tlmbale molds that have been 
previously lined with Aspic Jelly, and 
which have become set. Decorate 
nicely with these timbales of Aspic 
and Poulette Sauce, and garnish the 
dish with Crofitons, on which you 
have already placed pieces of Aspic 
Jelly. Decorate the edges of the dish 
with watercress, and place on the ta- 
ble cold. When ready to serve, place a 
portion of the breast of the duck or 
the entire breast of the small game 
on a Crofiton of Aspic Jelly, with the 
timbale turned out on the end of the 
chicken or game and the other end 
garnished with watercress. If chick- 
ens are used be careful to have spring 
chickens about one and a half pounds 
in weight. 



138 



THE PICAirUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER XX 



STUFFING AtfD DRESSING 

''FOR POULTRY GAME. FISH./7C 



FORCEMEAT 

he% FarceM — De< QueneUet 
The Creoles claim that oysters, 
eererSf chestnuts or truffles are the only 
elegant dressings for poultry or game, 
and oysters or egg stuffing for fish. 
The following are the methods of 
preparing these dressings: 



Oyster Dressinsr 

Farce auw IluUres 

2 Dozen Oysters. 
1 Cup of Bread. Wet and Squeezed. 

1 Onion. Chopped Very Fine. 
H Square Inch Ham. I Tablespoonful 

Butter. 

^Teaspoonful of Sage. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme, Parsley and 

Bay Leaf. Minced Very Fine. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wet some soft bread and squeeze 
thoroughly till you have one cup, 
judging the quantity of stuffing al- 
ways by the size of the fowl to be 
stufted, and adding more In propor- 
tion, if needed. Season the bread well 
with salt and pepper, and add the 
minced .herbs, mixing well. Take a 
tablespoonful of butter and put in the 
frying pan. As It melts add the 
onion, which must be chopped very 
fine. Let this brown for about five 
minutes, and while frying add the 
bread and stir well. Then add the 
square inch of ham, minced very fine. 
Mix well and let all fry well. Season 
again to taste. Then add the two 
dozen oysters, cut in two, with all the 
hard portions taken off. Mix all well 
and fry for a few minutes longer. 
Then, if you prefer a dry dressing, 
place the pan in the oven and let the 
dressing bake for ten minutes. If 
you prefer, as many do, the moister 
and richer dressing, stuff the fowl or 
fish immediately, and proceed to bake. 
Arrange and bake the fowl as in the 
directions on these special subjects. 
Twice the above quantity of bread will 
be needed, and perhaps a little more, 
in stuffing turkey. The flavor of sage 
is very much liked by some and dis- 



liked by others. If used — ^and the 
Creoles always use it — add a tea- 
spoonful sifted, and mix thoroughly 
with the bread before putting it in 
the frying pan, if two cups of dress- 
ing are used, and less for one cup, 
in proportion. 



Oyster Stuffing for Poultry 

Farce d'lluitres 

All depends upon the size of the 

fowl. For the ordinary-sized fifteen 

or sixteen-pound turkey take 

S Dozen Oysters. 

1 Quart of Stale Bread. Wet and 

Squeezed. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Parsley. 

1 Sprig of Thyme. 

1 Bay Leaf. 3 Tablespoonfuls of Sage. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Drain the oysters; wet the stale 
bread with hot water, squeezing thor- 
oughly. Chop fine the liver and giz- 
zard of the fowl, and put a table- 
spoonful of lard into the frying pan. 
Mix in the chopped onions and add 
the chopped liver and gizzard. As it 
begins to brown, throw in the chopped 
herbs, and then add the bread, which 
has been mixed well and seasoned 
with the chopped sage. Mix well. 
Add to this one tablespoonful of but- 
ter and stir, blending all thoroughly. 
Now add the pint or so of oyster 
water, and as it is reduced mix in 
the oysters. Stir for three or four 
minutes and take off and dress the 
fowl. This dressing is highly recom- 
mended. 

Staffing of Tmffles 

Farce aux Truffes 
% Can of Truffles. 
1 Cup of Bread. Wet and Squeezed. 
1 Onion, Chopped Very Fine. 
H Square Inch of Ham. 1 Tablespoon- 
ful of Butter. 
2H Teaspoonfuls of Sage. 
1 Sprier Each of Thyme, Parsley and 
Bay Leaf, Minced Very Fine. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Proceed in exactly the same manner 
as for egg or oyster stuffing, using 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



139 



a quarter of a can of truffles chopped, 
instead of the oysters or egg. But 
bear in mind that this is an expensive 
stuffing. 

Egg Dressing 

Farce aux Oeufa 

4 Hard-Boiled Egrgs. 
1 Cup of Bread, Wet and Squeezed 

Thoroughly. 
1 Chopped Onion. % Square Inch of 

Ham. 

1 Teaspoonful of Butter. 

^ Teaspoonful of Sage. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme, Parsley and 

Bay Leaf. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wet the bread and squeeze thor- 
oughly. Chop the eggs fine and mix 
with the bread. Mince the herbs and 
add. Season well with salt and pep- 
per. Chop the onion and fry it in 
one tablespoonful of butter. As it 
browns add the bread, into which you 
have mixed the sifted sage, if desired. 
Add, as it fries, the half square-inch 
of ham, minced very fine. Season 
again to taste, and let all fry about 
ten minutes. Take ott the stove and 
stuff the fowl or fish and proceed 
with the arrangement for baking. Egg 
dressing is a very nice stuffing for 
fish, if oysters cannot be had. 



Stuffing for Goose 

Farce Pour I'Oie 

■ 1 Cup of Mashed Potatoes. 
4 Apples. 
4 Onions. % Teaspoonful Powdered 

Sage. 
% Teaspoonful of Thyme. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Any stuffing used in baking a turkey 
may be used for roast goose, such 
as oyster or egg, etc. But the fol- 
lowing is an excellent special dressing 
and seems to bring out more than 
any other the flavor of the goose: 

Take one cup of mashed potatoes, 
four apples (peeled nicely and cored), 
and four onions; one-half teaspoonful 
of sage, powdered well; one-half tea- 
spoonful of thyme, and pepper and 
salt to taste. Place the apples and 
onions and herbs in a saucepan and 
add water sufficient to cover nicely. 
Let all cook together till soft, ^hen 
mash well and rub through a sieve. 
Add the cup of mashed potatoes and 
mix well, seasoning with salt and pep- 
per. Stuft the body and craw, sew up 
and truss the goose, and bake accord- 
ing to recipe. (See recipe for "Roast 
Goose." ) 



Stuffing for Ducks 

Faroe Pour les Canards 

2 Dozen Oysters. 

1 Cup of Bread, Wet and Squeezed. 

1 Onion, Chopped Very Fine. 

^t Square Inch of Ham. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

^ Teaspoonful of Sage. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme, Parsley and 

Bay Leaf, Minced Very Fine. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

The Creoles generally stuff the do- 
mestic duck when roasted, using an 
oyster stuffing. (See recipe.) But 
many hold that the flavor of the wild 
duck is finer when not stuffed. This 
is a matter of taste. The wild duck 
stuffed with oysters Is a most delect- 
able dish. 

Ducks may be stuffed with truffles. 
This is much affected by epicures 
when serving the famous Mallard or 
Canvasback Ducks at great dinings. 
But a duck stuffed with truffles is a 
real luxury. 

The domestic duck is always roasted 
and stuffed. Serve with Currant Jelly. 



A Simple Bread Stuffing 

Farce de Pain 

1 Pint of Stale Bread, Wet and 

Squeezed Thoroughly. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful Bach of Chopped 

Parsley and Thyme. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wet the bread and squeeze. Add 
the minced herbs and season well 
with salt and pepper. Mix all thor- 
oughly and fry in butter. 



Onion Staffing 

Farce aux Oignons 

1 Pint of Stale Bread, Wet and 

Squeezed Thoroughly. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful Each of Chopped 

Parsley and Thyme. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for bread stuffing, using also 
one large onion, chopped very fine, 
and mixed thoroughly. This is a very 
nice dressing and cheap. 



FORCEMEATS 

Quenelles 
Quenelles are small balls of fowl, 
fish meat or other chopped and hashed 
ingredients rolled nicely, and used as 



140 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



a erarnish for poultry and fish, and 
fish or meat sauces, often adding: both 
to the taste and beauty of a dish. 



use as needed. In maklngr this force- 
meat, poultry or grame may be used 
instead of veal. 



Creole Foroemeat 

Quenelles d la Criole 

Cairs Liver. A Slice of Pork Pat. 

1 Onion. 2 Sprlgrs of Thyme. 

2 Spriers of Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

% Teaspoonful of Grated Nutmegr. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Take calf's liver and pork fat, in 
the proportions of two-thirds liver 
and one-third fat. Grind both together 
very, very fine. Then mince an onion, 
and two sprigs each of thyme and 
parsley, and one bay leaf, and mix 
with the ground meat; add a half tea- 
spoonful of grated nutmeg and salt 
and pepper to taste. Mix well. Put 
one tablespoonful of hot butter in a 
frying pan and throw in the chopped 
meat. Let all blend well together 
without cooking for about two min- 
utes, stirring all the time. Take the 
mixture off, and when it cools, form 
Into little balls about the size and 
shape of a pecan. Roll these in flour, 
and then parboil in boiling water that 
has been well seasoned with pepper 
and salt. The balls then become 
Quenelles, and are used as a garnish 
for meats, etc. Place around the 
meat and pour the sauce over and 
serve hot. These are the genuine 
Quenelles. 



Godivcau Forcemeat 

Quenelles Oodivcaux 

1-4 Pound of Suet. 1-4 Pound of Lean 

Veal. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1-2 Gill of 

Cold Milk. 

1 Teaspoonsful Each of Minced Thyme 

and Parsley. 1 Bay Leaf. 

2 Raw Eggs. 
A Pinch of Grated Nutmeg. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Remove all the stringry tissue from 

the suet and pound in a mortar; hash 

the veal well and mix with the meat. 

Take a tablespoonful of flour and 

blend well with half a gill of cold 

milk and a tablespoonful of melted 

butter, and add to the suet and veal 

and blend well. Season highly with 

salt and pepper, and add a pinch of 

grated nutmeg. Then add the yolks 

of two raw eggrs and the white of one 

egg, and, when well blended, strain 

all through a sieve, roll into balls and 



Sausage Foroemeat 

Quenelles de Saucisses 

M Pound of Fresh Pork. 
2 Square Inches of Lean Raw Ham. 
1 Sprig of Thyme. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Sprig of Parsley. 

A Pinch of Grated Nutmeg. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Hash the pork; season well with 

salt and pepper, according to taste« 

adding a pinch of grated nutmeg and 

the chopped herbs and minced ham. 

Hash all very fine and make Into 

small balls and use as desired. This 

is a nice garnish for meat when 

served with sauces. 



Chicken Forcemeat 

Quenelles de Volaille 

2 Raw Chicken Breasts. 
The Yolks of 4 Eggs. Bread Soaked in 

Water. 

1 Teaspoonsful of Butter. 

1 Bay Leaf. 1 Teaspoonful Each of 

Thyme and Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A Pinch of Grated Nutmee. 

Cut up the chicken and pound in a 
mortar; add an equal quantity of 
bread soaked in milk or water and 
well squeezed; add the butter and the 
yolks of the eggs; blend well and sea- 
son highly with salt and pepper and 
the minced herbs, and add a pinch 
of grated nutmeg. Mix all together 
and roll into balls, and use as desired. 



Game Forcemeat 

Quenelles de Oilfier 

The Breasts of Any Birds. 

4 Eggs. 
1 Teaspoonful of Butter. 
1 Bay Leaf. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 1 Sprig 

of Parsley. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

In making a forcemeat of game, use 
judgment in regard to quantity. The 
partridge is the best bird for a game 
forcemeat. Take two breasts of part- 
ridges, cut into pieces, and pound in 
a mortar. Add the same quantity of 
bread that has been wet with milk 
or water and squeezed well. Add the 
butter and the yolks of four eggs, and 
season highly with salt and pepper 
and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Mix 
thoroughly and press all through a 
.sieve. Two well-pounded trufHes may 
be added. Use as desired. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



141 



Fl8h Forcemeat 

Quenelles dc PoisMon 

1-2 Pound of Firm Fish. 

The Whites of 3 Ef^s. 

1-4 Pint of Cream or Milk. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Teaspoonful Each of Mlnched Thyme 

and Parsley 

Salt and White Pepper to Taste. 

A Pinch of Grated Nutmeg:. 

The left-over flsh may be utilized 
for these Quenelles, or take a half 
pound of any firm fish — 8heepshead« 
J ted fish or Red Snapper. Take out 
all the bones and remove the skin. 
Pound the fish well in a mortar, and 
add gradually the well-whipped whites 
of three egrgs. Add carefully the 
cream or milk, and season to taste 
with salt and pepper, using white pep- 
per. Add the grated nutmeg and 
minced herbs. Mix thoroughly, drain 
through a sieve, form into little balls, 
and use when needed. 



Crab Foreement 

Quenelles des Crahes 

The Meat of 12 Crabs. 1 Onion. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 1-2 Teaspoon- 

ful of Salt. 

1 Teaspoonful of White Pepper. 

A Dash of Cayenne. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

12 Mushrooms, if desired. 

The Yolks of 3 Eggs. 

Chop the onion very fine and fry 
in oAe tablespoonful of butter until 
a golden brown; then add a table- 
spoonful of fiour and moisten with a 
quarter of a pint of water, or oyster 
juice, till the sauce begins to thicken 
well; season with the salt and pepper 
and a dash of Cayenne. Add the clove 
of garlic, finely minced, and the 
mushrooms, if desired. Cook for a 
half hour in the saucepan, and then 
take off the fire and add the yolks of 
the eggs. Stir again for a moment, 
cool, and roll into balls and use as 
desired. 



CHAPTER XXI 




SAUCES fOfiJlSK MM'S. 

POULTRY GAME. FTC 



Des Sauces Pour les Polssons, les Viandes, la VolaiUe, le Oihier, etc. 



The Creoles, like their French an- 
cestors, hold that the three mother 
sauces, "Sauces M^res," are: Brown 
Sauce, or "Sauce Espagnole"; the 
White Sauce, or "Sauce Allemande;" 
and the "Glaze." or "Glac6." These 
are the foundation of all sauced, and 
upon their successful making depends 
the taste and piquancy of the num- 
berless variety of fancy sauces* that 
.give to even the most commonplace 
dishes a certain elegance. The 
Creoles are famous for their splen- 
did sauces, and the perfect making of 
a good sauce is considered an indis- 
pensable part of culinary art and do- 
mestic economy. The first thing to 
learn in making sauces of every kind 
is how to make a good "Roux," or 
the foundation mixture of flour and 
butter, or fiour and lard. We have 
the Brown Roux and the White Roux. 
In making a Brown Roux, this un- 
failing rule must be the guide: Never 
under any consideration use burnt 
or over-browned flour. 



Brown Roux 

Roux Brun 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoon- 
ful Flour. 

In making the roux, which is the 
foundation of a fancy sauce, melt the 
tablespoonful of butter slowly, and 
add gradually the flour, sprinkling it 
in and stirring constantly, till every 
portion is a nice, delicate brown. 
Never make it too brown, because 
it must continue browning as the 
other ingredients are added in the 
order given in every recipe in this 
book. It is a great mistake to pile all 
ingredients, one after another, pell- 
mell, Into a dish. In the course of 
preparation. The secret of good cook- 
ing lies In following implicitly the 
gradual introduction of the compo- 
nent parts in the order specified. 

In mixing a roux for cooking 
gravies or smothering meats, the pro- 
portions are one tablespoonful of lard 
and two of fiour, butter always mak- 
ing a richer gravy than lard, and 



142 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



sometimes being too rich for delicate 
stomachs. It is a great fad among 
many in our day to use nothing but 
butter in cooking. The Creoles hold 
that butter should be used in its 
proper place, and lard in its own. 
The lard is not only less expensive, 
but is far preferable to an inferior 
quality of butter, and in many cases 
preferable to the best butter, accord- 
ing to the dish in course of prepara- 
tion. Properly made, the taste of 
lard can never be detected, and it 
is feared that butter is used by many 
to cover up, by its taste, the deficien- 
cies resulting from an improperly 
made rouz. If there is the slightest 
indication of burnt odor or over- 
browning, throw the roux away and 
wash the utensil before proceeding 
to make another. Remember that 
even a slightly burnt sauce will spoil 
the most savory dish. 

White Roux 

Rouw Blanc 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoon- 

ful Flour. 

The White Roux is made exactly 
like the Brown Roux, only that the 
butter and flour are put simultane- 
ously into the saucepan, and not al- 
lowed to brown. It is then moistened 
with a little broth or boiling water, 
and allowed to boil a few minutes till 
thick. The White Roux is the foun- 
dation of all white sauces, or those 
containing milk and cream. It is 
also used in nearly all purees. In the 
Sauce Velout^e it should be colored. 



GLAZE 

Glace. 

6 Pounds Rump of Beef. 5 Pounds of 

Bones. 

2 Calf's Feet. 

1 Large Herb Bouquet. 1 Stalk of Celery. 

3 Large Carrots. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Glac6 is the foundation of all sauces 

for roasts, filets, etc. In other words, 

it is Liebig's Beef Extract, which 

every housekeeper may make and 

keep on hand for gravies for meats. 

It is made as follows: Roast five 

pounds of the rump of the beef. Take 

five or six pounds of bones of beef 

and two calf's feet. After roasting the 

beef well and brown, but rare, chop 

it in small pieces, and put in a pot 

with two gallons of water. Add to 

this the bones and calf's feet, all raw. 



Then add a large herb bouquet, a.nd 
one stalk of celery and three lax^e 
carrots. Let the whole come to a 
boil. As the scum rises, skim, and 
then season with salt and pepper to 
taste. Let all boil till reduced to one 
quart. Strain this, and it will m&ke 
a jelly or glac6 when cold. Do not 
add any flour or grease. The soo^ 
Creole cook considers it little short of 
a crime to add flour to the gravies of 
roast or broiled beef. Use this for 
thickening Sauce Espagnole. 

Andiovy Sauce 

Sauce aux Beurre d*Anchoi8 

1 Tablespoonful of Anchovy Butter. 

1 1-2 Tablespoonfuls Flour. 

1 1-2 Tablespoonfuls Butter. 

Make a White Sauce (see recipe), 
and add to this a tablespoonful of 
Anchovy butter, which comes pre- 
pared. Let it melt, season to taste 
in the sauce, and serv^e. An Anchovy 
Sauce may be either brown or white. 
Serve with boiled fish. 



Apple Sauce 

Sauce Marmalade de Pommea 

6 Large Apples. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 4 Cloves. 

1 Stick Cinnamon. 1 Cup Water. 

Cut the apples into pieces, peel and 
let them boil till mashed into a jelly, 
stirring frequently, to prevent burn- 
ing. Add the ground cloves and the 
stick of cinnamon, ground fine. Let 
them boil at least three-quarters of 
an hour, mashing as they become ten- 
der. Then take off the fire and press 
them through a coarse sieve. Add 
sugar to taste, add the butter, and set 
all back on the fire, and let it simmer 
gently for five minutes longer. Set 
to cool in a dish, and serve with Roast 
Pork or Roast Goose. The sauce must 
not scorch, or the taste will be spoiled. 

Bdamalse Sauce 

Sauce B6amaise 

6 Shallots. 1-2 Clove of Garlic 

1-2 Gill of French Vinegar. 

1 Tablespoonful Each of Flour and 

Butter. 

Yolks of Four Eggs. 

A. Grated Nutmeg. Juice of 1 Lemon* 

Glac6. 

Chop the shallots and mince the 
garlic very fine. Blend the butter 
and flour, or take a good tablespoon- 
ful of Glac6 (see recipe), and moisten 
with a good white consomm6, till you 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



143 



have about a pint. Set on the stove, 
in a porcelain-Uned saucepan. Add 
the pepper and salt and butter, and 
a quarter of a teaspoonful of ^ated 
nutmeg. Add half a gill of vinegar 
and the Juice of a lemon, according 
to taste and acidity. When of the 
consistency approaching starch, take 
from the fire and add the yolks of 
four eggs, beaten well, and stirring 
all the time, till you have the con- 
sistency of a thick starch. Serve im- 
mediately, with broiled steak, broiled 
chops, broiled fish, etc. 

B^liamel Sauce 

Sauce B6chamel 

2 Ounces of Raw Ham. 2 Fresh Mush- 
rooms. 
1 Tabelspoonful of Butter. 
1 Pint of Velout6e Sauce. 2 Gills Rich 

Cream. 

1 Stick of Celery, Cut Very Fine. 

1-2 Carrot, Cut very Fine. 

1-2 Onion, Chopped Very Fine. 

1 Bunch Sweet Herbs. 2 Cloves. 4 All 

spice. Blade of Mace. 

Put the butter in a saucepan, and 

as It melts add the chopped onion, 

and let It stew until very tender, but 

do not let it brown. Mince the ham 

and cut the vegetables very fine, and 

add first the ham, letting it brown a 

minute, and then the vegetables, herbs 

and spices. Let all simmer gently for 

ten minutes, without browning. Add 

the Velout^e Sauce (see recipe), stir 

in well, and bring all to a boil. Let 

it boil ten minutes, and be sure to 

stir constantly. Then add, by gentle 

degrees, the cream, which should not 

be heated, but which must be very 

rich and sweet (if not perfectly sweet 

it will spoil the sauce). When all this 

is blended, the sauce is of a velvet 

smoothness, and very delicious. Strain 

and set on the fire a minute longer 

to heat, and serve hot. It is served 

with fish, chicken and sweetbreads. 

Bordelalse Sauce 

Sauce d la Bordelaise 

2 Shallots. 

8-4 Pint of Sauce Espagnole. 

A Dash of Red Pepper. 

Cut two shallots very fine; put in a 

-saucepan with three-quarters of a pint 

of good Sauce Espagnole (see recipe) 

and a dash of red pepper. Cook for 

twenty minutes and serve hot. In 

serving this sauce, the fiavor may be 

increased by adding a dozen round 

slices of blanched Marrona 



Bordelalse Sauce, Creole Style 

Bordelaiae Sauce d la Oriole 

1 Onion or 2 Shallots. 

1 Tablespoonful of Olive Oil. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Peel the onion or shallots and chop 

fine. Put in a saucepan with one 

tablespoonful of olive oil; let the 

onion saut^ well, and pour the sauce 

over tenderloin filets or sirloin steaks 

when it is desired to serve these k la 

Bordelalse. 

Brown Sauce 

Sauce Espagnole 

1 Pound of Neck or Brisket of Veal. 

Bones of Beef. 
1 Gallon of Water. 2 Tablespoonfuls of 

Lard. 
% Can Mushrooms or % Can Truffles. 

2 Carrots. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 
2 Cloves Garlic. 1 Herb Bouquet. 

Lemon Juice. 

Clean a quantity of bones, put 
them in a gallon of boiling water, 
and make a strong consomm6, sea- 
soning well with salt and pepper. Take 
a piece of the brisket or neck of 
the beef, and roast rare, so that the 
blood spurts out when pricked with 
a needle. After roasting cut it in 
pieces of about one inch square. Take 
two tablespoonfuls of lard and three 
of flour, and brown slightly, stirring 
all the time. After browning, add 
the water of the consomm4, which has 
been reduced to about half a gallon, 
pouring it in slowljr and stirring con- 
stantly. Then add all the pieces of 
the roast beef which you have cut. 
Add three carrots, two cloves of gar- 
lic, one onion, an herb bouquet (tied 
together of thyme, parsley and bay 
leaf), and let the whole boil well two 
hours, stirring every five minutes un- 
til reduced to the consistency of 
starch. Then strain well through a 
strainer or sieve, season to taste, and 
set back on the stove to cook a few 
minutes longer! Taste, and if sufil- 
ciently seasoned, take it off and allow 
It to get cool. This sauce is then used 
as a foundation sauce, and will keep 
for at least one month in the climate 
of New Orleans, if put in a cool place 
in winter or the ice box in summer. 

The Brown Sauce, or Sauce Espag- 
nole, is made by using some of this 
at a time, and adding to a half pint 
of foundation sauce one tablespoonful 
of broth. Set it to boil again, and 
add a half can of mushrooms or truf- 
fles, as desired. It is used for all 
meats, fish or fowl served hot. 



144 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



If one does not desire to keep it, 
and it is a matter of economy to do 
so, it can be made by reducing the 
proportions for the dish to be pre- 
pared, simply browning one table- 
spoonful of butter and two of flour, 
adding at the right time a pint of 
boiling broth. 



Brown Butter Sanoc 

Sauce OMX Beurre Noir 

1-4 Pound of Butter. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Cut Par.sloy (not 

chopped.) 

3 Tablespoonfuls Lemon Juice or 

Vinegar. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, and 
when it begins to smoke it is brown- 
ing. Then add two tablespoonfuls of 
cut parsley, and let it brown half a 
minute longer. Then add three level 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice or 
Tarragon Vinegar, let it all simmer 
two minutes longer, and serve with 
Stingaree or Rai aux Beurfe Noir 
(see recipe), calf's brains or crawfish 
boiled. 

Bread Sauce 

Sauce de Pain 

1 1-2 Ounces of Fresh Bread Crumb.s. 
1-2 Cup of Cold Water. 

1-2 Ounce of Butter. 
1 Cup of Cream or Milk. 

6 Whole Peppers. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Crumble the bread and place in a 
saucepan with the water; add the 
butter, salt and peppers. Cook for 
five minutes and add the milk. Cook 
five minutes longer, remove the pep- 
pers and serve hot. 



Caper Sauce 

Sauce aux Cdprea 

Make a White Sauce, as above, and 
add a half cup of flnely-cut French 
capers before serving. This sauce 
is served with boiled mutton. 



Cauliflower Sauce 

Sauce aux Choufleura 

For this sauce, as a foundation, first 
make the Cream Sauce (see recipe), 
and add to it the flowerets of the 
cauliflower, which you will have pre- 
viously boiled till tender, and cut very 
fine. Serve with boiled fish, veal 
saut4 boiled cauliflower, etc. 



C^hambord Sauc?e 

Sauce d la Chambord 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Larse Onion Minced. 1 Sprig of Thyme. 

1 Bay Leaf. 3 Large Tomatoes. 

1 Truffle, If Desired. 

6 Thinly Sliced Mushrooms. 

1 Pint Oyster Water. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

2 Sprigs of Parsley. 2 Cloves, Mashed. 

4 Allspice, Ground. 

Brown the onion in the butter, but 
do not let it burn. Add three largo 
tomatoes, chopped fine, with their 
juice and the finely minced herbs, the 
thinly sliced truffles and mushrooms. 
Let these brown well for about ten 
minutes. Then add the pint of oys- 
ter water, and season to taste. Add. 
if you have them, three or four craw> 
fish, chopped fine, and one dozen 
oysters. Let all boil twenty minutes 
longer, and season to taste. Serve 
with Baked Red Snapper and other 
baked fish. 

ChUi Sauce 

Sauce au ChUi 

6 Tomatoes. 4 Green Peppers . 1 Onion. 

1 Tablespoonful of Salt. 

1V4 Cups of Vinegar. 

Cayenne and Chili Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the vinegar and add the 
chopped tomatoes and green peppers 
and the minced onion, adding a table- 
.spoonful of sugar. Let all boil one 
hour. Season to taste, strain, and 
serve with any fish or meats. 



Chestnut Sauce 

Sauce aux Marrons 

1 Pint of Large Roasted Chestnuts. 

1 Pint of Boiling Stock. 

1 Tablespoonful Flour. 1 Tablespoonful 

Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

. Roast the chestnuts, and peel and 
mash them very fine. Make a Brown 
Roux with the fiour and butter, and 
add the boiling stock. Let it boil for 
about five minutes, and add the 
mashed chestnuts, stirring constantly, 
and seasoning to taste. Let it boil 
for two minutes, take off and serve 
hot, with Broiled Dindonneaux (tur- 
key chicks). This is a great Creole 
dish, and is considered a delicate one. 
The sauce may also be served with 
Roast Turkey. 



Celery Sauce 

Sauce au Cdleri 
Mince the celery well; put it in a 
.saucepan and cover with boiling 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



145 



water. Let It boll about thirty min- 
utes, until tender. Then make a 
Cream Sauce. 

Cream Sauce 

Sauce d la Cr^me 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoonful 

Flour. 

2 Gills of Fresh Milk or Cream. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Melt the butter in the saucepan, 
and add the flour gradually, letting it 
blend without browning in the least. 
Add the boiling milk or cream and 
stir without ceasing. Add salt and 
white pepper to taste, and serve im- 
mediately with boiled fish, etc. 

Cranberry Sauce 

Sauce auw Airelles 

Wash the cranberries in cold water, 
and pick well, rejecting all those 
that float on top or are in any manner 
overripe and spoiled. Put them in a 
porcelain lined saucepan, with one 
pint of water, and let them boll over 
a moderate fire, stirring occasionally 
with a wooden spoon, and mashing 
the fruit as much as possible. When 
the berries have cooked about twenty 
minutes, remove the saucepan from 
the fire, and add the sugar, stirring 
In sufiiclent to sweeten nicely. Let 
them cook at least ten or fifteen min- 
utes longer, after adding: the sugar, 
and put Into i.n earthen bowl, and let 
the sauce cool. Never strain the 
sauce. Many do, but the Creoles 
have found out that cranberry jelly 
Is a very poor and insipid sauce, com- 
pared with that of the whole fruit, 
when formed into a sauce In an 
earthen mold. Liquid cranberry Is 
a very poor apology for the dainty 
crimson mold of the native fruit. 

Let them stand at least overnight, 
or twenty- four hours. In a cool place, 
before serving. Serve Cranberry 
Sauce with Roast Turkey. 

Crapaudine Sauce 

Sauce d la Crapaudine 

1 Pint of Sauce Piquante. 

8 Chopped Mushrooms. 

1 Teaspoonful of Dry Mustard. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Tarragon Vinegar. 

Put a half pint of very light 

Piquante Sauce on the fire, add the 

mushrooms, finely chopped, and a 

teaspoonful of dry mustard, which 

has been well diluted in two table- 



spoonfuls of Tarragon vinegar. Let 
the sauce boil for five minutes, and 
serve hot. 

Creole Sauce 

Sauce d la Creole 

2 Tomatoes. 6 Shallots. 

1 Chopped Sweet Pepper. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

Make a Tomato Sauce quite brown. 
(See recipe.) Add the chopped shal- 
lots and sweet pepper, and, when 
these are browned, season highly. 
Serve with meats. 

Cucumber Sauce 

Sauce aux Concombres 

1 Nice, Tender Cucumber. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Prepared Mustard. 

The Tolks of One Egg. Seasoning 

to Taste. 

Peel and grate the cucumber, and 
add the mustard, mixing thoroughly. 
Add the juice of one lemon and the 
yolk of one egg, beaten thoroughly. 
This is a delicious salad dressing. 

Currant Jelly Sauce 

Sauce d la QeUe de Oroaeillea 

1-2 Tumbler of Currant Jelly. 
4 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 2 Gills of 

Water. 

Melt the butter, and add the jelly, 

blending well, and then add the water. 

Add a little salt and sugar to taste. 

This sauce is served with Venison and 

other game. 

Drawn Butter Sauce 

Sauce auw Beurre 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful Chopped Parsley. 

Juice of 1 Lemon. 

This sauce is made simply by melt- 
ing butter and adding a little chopped 
parsley. Add the juice of a lemon. If 
desired. It is used as a garnish for 
broiled meat, fish, chicken, etc. 

Half-Glaze 

Demi-Qlac^e 

1 Pint of Sauce Espagnole. 
1 1-2 Glasses of Mushroom Liquor. 
1 Herb Bouquet. 1 Teaspoonful of 

Pepper. 
Salt to Taste. 
To one pint of Sauce Espagnole 
(see recipe) add a glass of mush- 
room liquor, an herb bouquet and a 
teaspoonful of pepper. Carefully re- 
move all fat and set on the fire and 
cook for thirty minutes. Strain and 
use when needed. 



146 



THE nCAYUmB CREOUS COOK BCK>K 



Devil's Sauce 

Sauce d la Diable 

1 Onfon. 2 CHoves of Garlic. 
8 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Pickle a Finsrer Lon^. 1 Tablespoon- 

ful of Mustard. 

2 GULb of Consomm6. Salt and Cayenne. 

Juice of a Lemon. 
Brown the onion in butter, and add 
the two cloves of garlic, minced very 
flne. When brown, add one pickle, 
minced very flne, and add a teaspoon- 
ful of prepared mustard. Then add 
two gills of consomm6 and the juice 
of a lemon, and allow It to cook 
slowly. Season with salt and hot pep- 
per (piment fort), and serve with 
shell flsh, chicken, sweetbreads, etc. 
This is a hot sauce. 

Egg Sauce 

Sauce auw Oeufs 

The Yolks of 3 Eggs. 
2 Chopped Hard-Boiled Eggs. 
1 Bay Leaf, Minced Fine. 1 Onion. 
6 Peppers. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 2 Table- 
spoonfuls of Butter. 
1-2 Teaspoonful of Grated Nutmeg. 
1 Pint of Veal or Chicken Broth. 

Chop the onions and put in the 

saucepan with the butter and bay 

leaf. Stir in the flour to thicken and 

moisten with the broth. Mix well, 

and add the nutmeg, and salt and 

pepper to taste. Beat the yolks of 

the eggs separately with the juice of 

half a lemon. Pour gradually into 

the sauce, but do not let it boil after 

they are added. Press through a 

sieve, and, when ready to serve, 

sprinkle with two chopped hard 

boiled eggs and a teaspoonful of 

minced parsley. 

Hard-Egg Sauce 

Sauce auw Oeufs Durt 
Make a White Sauce, as above, and 
add two or three hard boiled eggs, 
chopped, but not too flne, and a lit- 
tle finely minced parsley as a garnish. 
This sauce is served with boiled flsh 
or boiled chicken or other fowl. 

Genoese Sauce 

Sauce d la Oenoise 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

Lemon Juice. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

1-2 Pint of Water. 

Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg, and Allspice to 

Taste. 
Melt a tablespoonful of butter, stir 
In two tablespoonfuls of flour, and 



mix well till smooth. To this add 
about half a pint of water, and sea- 
son with pepper and salt and a little 
nutmeg and allspice. Let the sauce 
simmer and reduce to about one-half. 
Add parsley as a garnish and serve 
with boiled flsh or boiled meat. 



Giblet Sauce 

Sauce d'AhattU 

The Turkey Giblets. 1 Cup of Water. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Put the, giblets or simply the giz- 
zard into a saucepan and cover well 
with water. Let this simmer as long 
as the turkey roasts, then cut them 
flne and take the turkey out of the 
pan on which it has been roasted. 
Add the giblets and stir well, and 
then add a cup of the water in which 
the giblets have been boiled. Season 
to the taste and serve in a sauce dish, 
.pouring over the dressing when 
serving the turkey. 

Hollandalse Sauce 

Sauce d la Hollandaiae 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 
The Juice of Half a Lemon. Yolk of 1 

Egg. 

Salt and Pepper to Easte. 

1 Teaspoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

Sauce k la Hollandalse is nothing 
more than a Drawn Butter Sauce, to 
which the juice of a lemon and the 
yolk of an egg have been added. Melt 
the butter; add the juice of half a 
lemon; mix well and take off the 
stove and add the yolk of one egg, 
well beaten. ' Add a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, beating steadily. 
This sauce is very light, and as soon 
as removed from the fire is served 
hot with the flsh. 

Horseradish Sauce 

Sauce au Raifort 

3 Eggs. 
1 Cup of Cream. Grated Horse- 
radish. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
1-2 Pint of Consomme or Broth. 

Grate the horseradish in sufilcient 
quantity for use, and place it in a 
saucepan with the boiling stock. Let 
it boil about ten minutes, or less, un- 
til tender. Season to taste. In the 
meantime rub the eggs in a bowl with 
the cream, beating and mixing thor- 
oughly. Add these to the horseradish, 
stirring constantly, but do not let the 



THE PICAYUNS GREOIii: COOK BOOK 



147 



sauce boil, or the horseradish will 
curdle. Serve with roast meats or 
with baked fish. 



Then add the chopped mushrooms, 
stoned olives, pepper, salt and Cay- 
enne. Serve hot. 



Hunter's Sauce 

Sauce d la Chasaeur 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

3 Tomatoes. 2 Onions. 6 Mushrooms. 

1 Pint of Consomm6. 

Put the flour and butter into a 
saucepan and blend well; then moisten 
with one pint of consommfi or water; 
add the chopped tomatoes, onions and 
mushrooms and season with a pinch 
of salt and pepper; add an herb bou- 
quet and let it boil for an hour; be- 
fore serving add the juice of a lemon 
or six drops of vinegrar. If you have 
fresh game two tablespoonfuls of 
blood may be added, but do not let 
it boil after this. 

Italian Sauce 

Sauce d Vltalienne 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoon- 

ful Flour. 
8 Shallots. Greens and White. 
1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 
1-2 of a Lemon's Juice. 1-2 Can Mush- 
rooms. 
Consomm6. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Cayenne to Taste. 

A Sauce d, I'ltalienne may be either 
brown or white. If mushrooms are 
used, make a white sauce — that is, 
let the butter and flour blend without 
browning. Add a half cup of con- 
somme and a half can of chopped 
mushrooms, the white of the shallot 
(chopped very fine), and the Juice of 
half a lemon. If a brown sauce, add 
the shallots to the butter and flour, 
which you will have browned, using 
the chopped white and green of the 
shallots. Then add a half pint of 
consomm6, and let it simmer for about 
an hour, and add the juice of a lemon 
and serve. 

The white sauce is used for fish, 
the brown for meats. Always season 
to taste. 

Financier Sauce 

Sauce d la Financi^e 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

6 Stoned Olives. 12 Mushrooms. 

Lemon Juice. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A Dash of Cayenne. 

Melt the butter, then remove from 

the fire and add the flour. Blend with 

a wooden spoon till smooth. Moisten 

with one pint of consommS till it 

reaches the consistency of cream. 



JoUe Fllle Sauce 

Sauce d la Belle Creole 

The Tolks of 2 Hard-Boiled "Egga, 

1-2 Cups Bread Crumbs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. % Cup of 

Cream. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Put the butter into the saucepan, 
and add the flour, letting it blend 
well, without burning or browning, 
for this is a white sauce. When it 
becomes a delicate yellow add the 
bread crumbs, stir for one minute, 
and add the half cup of consomm^ 
or broth. Stir well, and add a half 
cup of cream, and salt and pepper 
to taste. Add the chopped parsley 
as a garnish, and a little onion juice. 
Take off the fire and add the well 
chopped yolks of two eggs, and a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice. Serve 
with boiled fish or boiled meats of 
any kind. 

Lyonnaise Sauce 

Sauce d la Lyonnaiae 

1 Dozen Tomatoes. Two or Three 

Onions. 

H Spoon of Butter. 2 Cloves of Garlic. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

Minced Fine. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Salt and Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Make a good Tomato Sauce (see 
recipe), and add to this the well 
minced onions browned in butter. 
Stir well, add a little lemon juice, and 
serve with any meats. 

Maitre d'Hotel Sauce 

Sauce d la Maitre d'JIdtel 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoon- 
ful Flour. 
The Juice of ^ a Lemon. 
1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 
1 Pint of Clear Water. 

Put the butter and the flour in the 
saucepan and let them blend without 
burning. Mix well over a slow Are, 
and add one pint of consomm6. Add 
the juice of half a lemon and the 
chopped parsley, and let all boil about 
fifteen minutes. * When it reaches this 
point, take it off the stove, add the 
yolk of one egg, well beaten; mix 
well, stirring round, and serve with 
boiled fish. etc. 

Never add egg while the sauce is 
on the fire, as it will curdle imme- 
diately. 



148 



THE PICATUNE CREOUS GOOK BOOK 



Mayonnaise Sauoe 

Sauce Mayonnaise 

Yolk of 1 ^gg. Sweet Oil. Lemon. 
Vinegar. Pepper and Salt. 

Take the yolk of one fresh egg, 
raw, and put in a bowl. The egg and 
the oil must be cold, and in summer 
It is well to keep the soup plate in 
which you make the dressing on 
cracked ice in a pan, so that the oil 
will not run. Add. drop by drop 
sweet oil from the bottle. When you 
have dropped about a spoonful, being: 
careful to work it Into the yolk of 
the egg, drop by drop, blending: all 
the time, cut a lemon and squeeze 
a little into the mixture. It will 
at once begin to harden as you stir 
it in. Continue stirring till the egg 
grows hard, and then steadily, drop 
by drop, use mora oil, working it 
all the time with your fork into the 
egg. Have another spoon, begin to 
drop in the lemon Juice, working it 
the same way again, till it hardens 
the egg. Then begin again with the 
oil and work again, and again drop 
the lemon till you have squeezed out 
half a lemon and used two gills of 
oil, finishing with the oil. When the 
egg begins to curdle, add a little salt, 
but do not add this salt till the may- 
onnaise is complete. Serve very cold, 
with salads, etc. 

Musliroom Sauce 

Sauce aujB Champignon*. 

% Pint of Consomme, or Boiling 

Water. 

Lemon Juice. 1 Can of Mushrooms. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoon- 

ful Flour. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Make a Brown Roux, melting the 

butter In the saucepan, and adding 

the flour, and stirring till well 

browned. Then stir in the boiling 

stock, or water, if you have not the 

stock; add the mushrooms, and salt 

and pepper to taste. Add the Juice 

of half a lemon and let it cook for 

about fifteen minutes longer. This 

is a fine sauce for Roast Filet of Beef. 

Pour the sauce over the filet, and 

serve hot. 

Mint Sauce 

Sauce Menthe 

1 Good Handful of Mint, Chopped Very 

Fine. 

1 Tablespoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. 

1 Teaapoonful of Sugar. 

A Pint of White Beef Stock. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Chop one good handful of fresh 
mint and put it in a bowl; add a tea- 



spoonful of Tarragon Vinegar and one 
teaspoonful of sugar. To this add one 
pint of good white beef stock. IfLc 
all together and place in a bain-m.&rie 
or hot water bath — ^that is, stand In 
a saucepan of hot water on the fire 
and let it warm without boiling*. If 
the mint boils, it will be very bitter. 
Serve with roast lamb. 



Normandy Sauoe 

Sauce d la Xormande 

1 Pint of Sauce Velout6e. 

2 Tableapoonfuls of Mushroom Liquor. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Fish Stock. 

The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 

The Juice of Half a Lemon. 

Make a pint of Sauce Veloutde (see 
recipe), and add the mushroom liquor. 
Reduce for about ten minutes and 
add two tablespoonfuls of Fish Stock 
or Oyster Juice; if not at hand add 
hot water. Let it all boil again, and 
then add the yolks of two eggs and 
the Juice of a lemon. Strain throu^b 
a fine sieve, and add a teaspoonful 
of fresh butter and serve with flah. 
The sauce should be of the consistency 
of cream. 

Onion Sauce 

Sauce Souhise 

2 Onions. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Lemon Juice. 

Boil the onions until quite tender. 
adding salt and pepper. When soft 
mash well and pass through a sieve. 
Take one spoon of butter and one of 
flour and melt, blending together 
without burning or allowing to brown. 
In this cream dissolve the pur6e of 
onions, boiling gently for ten min- 
utes and stirring well. Add the juice 
of a lemon, a teaspoonful of vinegar, 
and serve with cutlets of lamb, fried 
sweetbreads, etc. 



Oyster Sauoe 

Sauce au^ Huttret 

2 Dozen Oysters. The Oyster Water. 
t Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoon- 
ful Flour. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the oysters in their own water. 
Add a nice herb bouquet while boil- 
ing. Take a tablespoonful of butter 
and one of flour and put into a sauce- 
pan, and mix well without browning; 
now dilute with the Juice of the oys- 
ters, sufficient to make one pint; sea- 
son to taste. Let it boil for ten or 



'JHE PICAYUNE CKBOIiE COOK BOOK 



149 



fifteen minutes, and, when it reaches 
a thick consistency, serve with freshly 
added oysters, taking the old ones out, 
because oysters that have boiled more 
than three minutes are unfit for eat- 
ings being hard and indigrestible; or 
the sauce may be served without the 
oysters. This is a sauce for boiled 
fish, etc. 

Parsley Cream Sauce 

Sauce d la Crdme de PerM 

A Tablespoonful and a Half of Butter. 
• A Tablespoonful and a Half of Flour. 
Half a Cup of Water or White Broth. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

To the recipe for White Sauce add 
one tablespoonful and a half of finely 
minced parsley. You may also add a 
tablespoonful of cream. This is nice 
with boiled fish or boiled chicken. 



Pepper Sauce 

Bauce Poivrade. 

1 Carrot, Minced Fine. 

2 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Onion, Minced Fine. 

yi Pint of Consomm4. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Grated Lemon. 1 Small Piece of 

Celery. 
Salt and Black Pepper to Taste. 
1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoon- 
ful Flour. 
A Dash of Cayenne. 

Put the butter in the saucepan, and, 
as it melts, add the flour. Let it 
brown slowly, and then add one pint 
of Consomm^. Let it boil, and add 
the minced herbs and vegetables and 
the zest or thin outer skin of a grated 
lemon. (The zest is the skin of a 
lemon, grated off without touching 
the inner white skin or pulp.) Let 
all boil slowly for an hour and a half. 
Season with salt and black pepper 
(hot) and a dash of Cayenne. Let 
it boil for ten minutes longer, take 
off the stove and strain, and serve 
with any game. 



Pepper Sauce for Venison 

Sauce Poivrade pour le ChevreuU 

1 Carrot, Minced Fine. 

2 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Onion, Minced Fine. 

Vi Pint of Consomm6. I Bay Leaf. 

% Grated Lemon. 1 Small Piece of 

Celery. 
Salt and Black Pepper to Taste. 
1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoon- 
ful Flour. 
A Dash of Cayenne. 

This sauce is made in exactly the 
same manner as Sauce Poivrade (see 



recipe) with this difference, that 
when it is to be served with venison 
a half glass of Currant Jelly is added, 
and the sauce allowed to boil ten 
minutes longer. 



Pickle Sauce 

Sauce aus Comichona 

A Tablespoonful and a Half of Butter. 

A Tablespoonful and a Half of Flour. 

Half a Cup of Water or White Broth. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

To the recipe for White Sauce (see 
recipe) add chopped gherkins, or any 
other vinegar pickles, using about 
two or' three. Add, just before serv- 
ing. Serve with fish. 



Piquant Sauce 

Sauce Piquante 

2 Onions. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Cloves of Garlic. 
1 Sprig Each of Thyme, Parsley and 

Bay Leaf. 
2 Pickles. 2 Inches in Length. 
1 Teaspoonful of Strong French Vine- 
gar. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Cayenne or Hot Pepper. 

Chop two onions very fine. Smother 
in a tablespoonful of butter. When 
well cooked, without burning, add one 
tablespoonful of consomm^ or water. 
Add two cloves of garlic, minced very 
fine, and the herbs minced very fine. 
Season to taste with hot pepper. Cut 
two pickles about two inches in length 
into thin slices about a quarter of an 
inch thick. Add these to the sauce, 
•with a teaspoonful of strong vinegar, 
and let the whole boil about five min- 
utes. Serve with boiled beef, boiled 
beef tongue, boiled pork tongue, or 
any boiled meats. 



Poulette Sauce 

Sauce d la Poulette 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoon- 
ful Flour. 
The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 
1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

H Pint of Consomm^ or Water. 
Juice of an Onion. Salt and Pepper to 

Taste. 
The Juice of Half a Lemon. 

Melt the butter and flour, blending 
well without browning. Add a half 
pint of water, or consomm4, the juice 
of one onion, and let it simmer 
twenty minutes. Season to taste. 
Take from the fire, add the yolks of 
two well beaten eggs and the Juice 
of a lemon, and serve immediately. 



150 



THG PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



Ravlgote Sauoe (Cold) 

Sauce Ravigote 

12 Shallots. 2 Cloves of Qarllc. 1 Pickle. 
1 Tablespoonful of Mustard. 
1 Tablespoonful of Vineffar. 

The Tolk of an Efirg*. 

4 Sprigs of Chopped Parsley. 

1 SprifiT Each of Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

Chop the shallots, green and white, 
all very fine, mince the two cloves 
of grarlic very fine, and put these in 
a big: bowl, adding: one pickle about 
three inches long, chopped very fine, 
but drained first of all water; then 
add a good bunch of parsley, chopped 
very fine. Mix all this together very 
well, and add one tablespoonful of 
mustard. Mix again. Add a good 
tablespoonful of vinegar and salt and 
pepper to taste. Beat the yolk of an 
egg and mix well in the sauce. This 
sauce is to be served cold, with cold 
meats, turkey or fowl. 



Hot Ravigote Sauoe 

Sauoe Raviffote 

12 Shallots. 1 Tablespoonful of Vinegar. 

2 Tableapoonfuls of Chopped Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Chop the parsley very fine. Have 
ready a "Sauce Veloutfie." (See 
recipe.) Add the other ingredients. 
Mix well. Place in a saucepan and 
set in boiling water and let it heat, . 
serving it hot with fish, white meats 
of chicken, etc. 

Sauce R^moulade 

R6moulade {Cold), 

3 Hard-Bolled Eggs. 1 Raw Yolk of 

Egg. 
1 Tablespoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. 

3 Tableapoonfuls of Olive Oil. 

% Clove of Garlic, Minced Very Fine. 

^ Teaspoonful of Prepared Mustard. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

A R6moulade is a cold sauce, and 
is always served with cold meats. Boil 
the eggs till hard. Remove the shells 
and set aside the white, which you 
must later crumble fine for a garnish. 
Put the yolks into a bowl, mash very 
fine, till perfectly smooth, add the 
mustard and mix well, and the sea- 
sonings of vinegar and salt and Cay- 
enne to taste. Then add the olive 
oil, drop by drop, working in the egg 
all the time, and then add the yolk 
of the raw egg, and work in thor- 
oughly, till light. Then add the juice 
of half a lemon. Mix well, increasing 
the quantities of oil or vinegar, ac- 



cording to taste, very slightly. If the 
sauce is not thoroughly mixed, it will 
curdle. It is now ready to be served 
with cold meats, fish or salads. 

Green R^moulade 

R€moulade Verte 

3 Hard -Boiled Eggs. 1 Raw Tolk of 

Egg. 
1 Tablespoonful of Tarragon Vinesar. 

3 Tablespoon fuls of Olive Oil. 

Vi Clove of Garlic. Minced Very Fine. 

^ Teaspoonful Prepared Mustard. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

A Green R^moulade is made in ex- 
actly the same manner as the above, 
only it is colored with the juice of 
spinach or parsley, using about two 
tablespoonfuls of either. 



Robert Sauce 

Sauoe Robert 

2 Onions. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Cloves of Garlic. 
1 Sprig Each of Thyme, Parsley and 

Bay Leaf. 
2 Pickles, 2 Inches in Length. 
1 Teaspoonful of Strong French Vine- 
gar. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Cayenne or Hot Pepper. 

Make a Sauce Piquante (see recipe), 
and add a teaspoonful more of pre- 
pared mustard, and two more of 
minced parsley, the juice of a lemon, 
and let it boil up once, and serve with 
steak, pork chops, liver saut6, turkey 
or goose. 

Spanish Sauoe 

Sauce EBpagnole 

% Pound of Brisket or Veal. 
Bones of Beef. 

1 Quart of Water. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Lard. . 

y^ Can Mushrooms, or \ Can TrufTles. 

1 Carrot, 1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

2 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

I Bay Leaf. 

Place a number of clean beef bones 
in a quart of boiling water, and make 
a strong consomm6, seasoning well 
with salt and pepper. ^ Roast a 
piece of the brisket or lieck of the 
beef till very rare, so that the blood 
spurts out when pricked with a needle. 
After cooking cut it in pieces of about 
one inch square. Take two table- 
spoonfuls of lard and three of flour, 
and brown slightly, stirring all the 
time. After browning add the water 
of the consomm^, which has been re- 
duced to about half a pint, pouring 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



151 



It In slowly and stirring: constantly. 
Then add all the cut pieces of the 
roast beef. Then put in three car- 
rots, two cloves of garlic, one onion, 
an herb bouquet of thyme, parsley 
and bay leaf, tied together, and let 
the whole boil well two hours, stir- 
ring every few minutes, until reduced 
to the consistency of starch. Then 
strain well through a strainer or sieve, 
season to taste, and set back on the 
stove to cook a few minutes longer. 
Add a half pint of broth. Set it to 
boil again, and add a half can of 
mushrooms or truffles, as desired. It 
is used for all meats, fish and fowl, 
served hot. 

Tartarc Sauce 

Sauce d la Tartar e 

A Mayonnaise Sauce. 6 Shallots. 

% Clove of Garlic. 

1 Pickle. 

A Handful of Parsley, Minced Fine. 

1 Teaspoonful Mustard. 

Prepare the Mayonnaise as directed 
above. Put in a bowl a half dozen 
shallots, greens and all, and chop fine; 
add a handful of parsley, chopped 
fine; and the half-minced clove, and 
one whole pickle, well chopped. Mix 
all this together, place It in a cloth 
and strain out the juice by pressing. 
Add this juice to the Mayonnaise, add 
one teaspoonful of mustard, and salt, 
Cayenne and black pepper to taste. 
This Is served with filet of trout, etc. 

Tomato Sauoc 

^auce aux Tomates 

1 Dozen Tomatoes. 
V^ Tablespoonful of Butter. 2 Cloves of 

Garlic. 

1 Sprig Each of Thyme and Bay Leaf, 

Minced Fine. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Salt and Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Take one dozen large tomatoes, or 
one can, and put in a pot to boil, with 
one-half tablespoonful of butter. Add 
salt and pepper to ta.ste, and one 
pint of water. Let it cook for about 
ten minutes, add the minced thyme, 
parsley and bay leaf, and two cloves 
of garlic, minced fine. When well 
boiled, mash through a sieve, reducing 
to a pulp. Put a tablespoon of flour in 
a saucepan, and add a half spoon of 
flour. When It blends and browns 
nicely add the tomato juice, season 
highly to taste, and, when ready to 
serve, add chopped parsley as a gar- 
nish. Serve with meat, fish or game. 



Velvet Sauce 

Sauce Velout6e. 

3 Ounces Butter, or 1 Tablespoonful and 

a Half. 

1 Tablespoonful and a Half of Flour. 

2 Gills of Water. 

The Well-Beaten Yolks of 2 Eggs. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Juice of a Lemon. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

Blend the flour and butter as In 
White Sauce, only letting It become 
slightly yellow. Add by degrees the 
boiling water and season to taste. 
Add the juice of half a lemon, and a 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Let 
it simmer for about ten minutes, and 
take from the fire, and add the well 
beaten yolks of two eggs. Serve Im- 
mediately with any boiled fish or 
meats. 

Vinaigrette Sauce 

Sauce Vinaigrette 

12 Shallots. 2 Tablespoonfuls of 

Vinegar. 

5 Tablespoonfuls of Oil. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Chopped Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Mix all together as In a Sauce Ravl- 
gote, cold (see recipe), and add the 
oil and vinegar; serve cold, with cold 
boiled meat, cold boiled fish, etc. 



White Sauce 

Sauce Blanche 

A Tablespoonful and a Half of Butter. 

A Tablespoonful and a Half of Flour. 

Half a Cup of Water or White Broth. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Blend the fiour and butter . in' the 
saucepan without browning in the 
least. Add by degrees the boiling 
water or White Consomm6 of veal or 
chicken, stirring until smooth, and 
boiling three minutes. Salt and pep- 
per to taste. Add the Juice of half 
a lemon. If the sauce Is to have 
other Ingredients, this Is the founda- 
tion for them and it must be of the 
consistency of thick starch to begin 
with. 

German Sauce 

Sauce AUemande 

4 Pounds of Raw Veal. 

The Bones of a Chicken. 

1 Gallon of Water. 1 Carrot. 1 Turnip. 

Celery Tops. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Spoonfuls of Lard. 

1 Herb Bouquet of Thyme, Parsley, Bay 

Leaf. 
1 Stalk of Celery. 2 Long Carrots. 

Take the veal and the bones of tho 
chicken and put into a pot with a 



152 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



gallon of water. Add the herb bou- 
<iuet, tied together, and one chopped 
carrot, one turnip, chopped, celery 
tops, and other Ingredients of a good 
"pot-au-feu." Let all boil slowly for 
three hours until it is reduced one- 
half. Then salt and pepper to taste. 
This will give a white broth or con- 
.somm6 blanc. When boiled to this 
point take off the fire and strain the 
broth Into a jar. Now put two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and three of flour, 
into a saucepan together, letting the 
butter and flour blend nicely, with- 
out browning. Add all the broth to 
this, stirring slowly while on the fire. 
Add a good, strong bouquet of herbs, 
thyme, parsley and bay leaf, all tied 



together whole. Add two large car- 
rots, letting all boil till reduced to 
one-half again. After this process, 
season to taste, and when it has 
reached the consistency of starch take 
it from the fire, strain, and let it get 
cool. This sauce is fine for all white 
meats and fish. When used for fish 
take one tablespoonful and moisten 
with a little fish broth. Set on the 
fire to heat, and add a pint of con- 
somme or broth. This sauce Alle- 
mande will keep at least one month 
in our climate, in the ice box. If one 
prefers to make it as needed, follow 
the proportions of one tablespoonful 
of butter, two of flour, and one pint 
of boiling broth. 



CHAPTER XXII 




5 AL AD S 




Des 8ala(l(8 



The old Spanish proverb that "to 
make a perfect salad there should be 
a miser for vinegar, a spendthrift for 
oil, a wise man for salt and a mad- 
cap to stir all these ingredients, and 
mix them well together," still holds 
as the unfailing Creole rule in making 
a good salad. The rea.son is clear. 
For the dressing of the salad should 
be saturated with the oil, before the 
salt, pepper and vinegar are added. 
By dissolving the salt in the vinegar, 
instead of in the oil, it becomes more 
thoroughly distributed throughout the 
salad. 

The simple French Dres.slng for 
salads is always the best for dally use, 
and also for formal dinners. It is 
not only lighter, as compared to the 
Mayonnaise Dressing, and, therefore, 
far more acceptable at dinners where 
the courses are many, but the Creoles 
hold, like the French, that It is the 
only dressing for salads that are not 
intended for limcheons or teas, such 
.'IS chicken, shrimp or crab salads. A 
Mayonnaise Dressing for salad should 
never be u.sed at the family dinner or 
formal dinings. 



Plain French Dressini; for Salads 

Assaiaonnement Francois 

3 TablespoonfulB of the Best Olive Oil. 
1 Tablespoonful of Vinegar, According 

to Taste. Vi Teaspoonful of Salt, 
% Teaspoonful of Black Pepper. 

First put the oil into a sgiall bowl. 
Then add gradually the salt and pep- 
per until all are thoroughly mixed. 
Then add gradually the vinegar, stir- 
ring continually for about a minute. 
It is now ready to pour over the salad, 
and remember that it must be mixed 
thoroughly. The proportion of vine- 
gar varies according the salad to be 
dressed. Lettuce salad requires but 
little; tomato salad, corn salad or 
Doucette require more. Serve this 
dressing with lettuce, tomato, onion. 
cucumber and other vegetables and 
green salads. 

French Dressings— No. 2. 

Aaaaisonnement FrancaU 

3 TablespoonfulB of Oil. 

1 Tablespoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. 

A Saltspoon Each of Black Pepper and 

Salt. Chopped Onion and Parsley. 

The Juice of Half an Onion. 

Mix these In the order given above, 

adding last the onion Juice and pars- 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



153 



ley, well chopped. This is a more 
elaborate French dressing. 

Mustard Dressing:. 

Assaisonnement d la Moutarde 

1 Tablespoonful of Vinegrar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Prepared Mustard. 

2 Tabledpoonfuls of Olive Oil. 
The Yolk of 1 Kgg, if Desired. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Blend the mustard and the oil, add- 
ing the latter, drop by drop at first, 
and then proceeding more confidently. 
Whenever the dressing appears to be 
curdling, add a few drops of vinegar, 
and work rapidly till it becomes 
smooth again. Add the salt and pep- 
per, and when the dressing is finished, 
use it for celery salad, fish, tomatoes, 
potatoes, etc. If the oil appears to 
separate from the other ingredients, 
it can always be rubbed into them 
smoothly again by adding a few drops 
of vinegar. In all these salads the 
question of oil and its measurements 
can only be approximated. Good Judg- 
ment must always be the final test. 

Creole French Dressing. 

AasaUonnement d la Criole 

3 Tablespoon fuls of the Best Olive Oil. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vinegar. 

1 Teaspoonful Mustard. 

The Yolk of a Hard-Boiled Egg. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Blend the oil and salt and pepper 
in the manner above indicated, and 
then add these to the mustard, drop 
by drop, alternating with the vinegar. 
When well blended add the well- 
mashed yolk of a hard-boiled egg. Stir 
well, and serve with lettuce, celery or 
potato salad. 



Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Sauce Mayonnaise 

Yolk of 1 Egg. 

Sweet Oil. Lemon. Vinegar. 

Pepper and Salt. 

Put the raw yolk of one fresh egg 
into a bowl. The egg and the oil 
must be cold, and in summer it is 
well to keep the soup plate in which 
you make the dressing on cracked 
ice in a pan, so that the oil will not 
run. Break the yolk and add, drop 
by drop, a little sweet oil from the 
bottle. When you have dropped about 
a spoonful, being careful to work it 
into the yolk of the egg, drop by drop, 
and blend all the time, squeeze a few 
drops of lemon Juice into the mixture. 



It will at once begin to harden as you 
stir it in. Continue stirring till the 
egg grows hard, and then steadily, 
drop by drop, let the oil fall, working 
it all the time with your fork into tho 
egg. Have another spoon, begin to 
drop in the lemon Juice, working it the 
same way again till it hardens the egg. 
Then begin again with the oil and 
work again, and again drop the lemon 
till you have the juice of half a lemon 
and about two gills of oil, finishing 
with the oil. When the egg begins to 
curdle, add a little salt, but do not 
add this salt till the Mayonnaise is 
complete. Serve very cold, with sal- 
ads, etc. 

Mayonnaise is the standing sauce 
for chicken salad, shrimp salad, crab 
salad, etc. When making it for these 
large salads, use three yolks of eggs 
and other Ingredients in proportion. 

R^moulaclc Dressing:. 

Bauce Rimoulade 

3 Hard-Boiled Eggs. 1 Raw Yolk of Egg. 
1 Tablespoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Olive Oil. 

1-2 Clove of Garlic, Minced Very Fine. 

1-2 Teaspoonful of Prepared Mustard. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

A K^moulade is a cold sauce, and 
is always served with cold meats. Boll 
the eggs till hard. Remove the shells 
and set aside the whites, which you 
must later crumble fine for a garnish. 
Put the yolks into a bowl, and mash 
very fine, till perfectly smooth. Add 
the mustard, and mix well, and the 
seasonings of vinegar and salt and 
Cayenne to taste? Then add the olive 
oil, drop by drop, working it into the 
egg steadily, • then add the yolk of 
the raw egg, and work in thorough- 
ly, till light. Then add the juice of 
half a lemon. Mix well, increasing 
the quantity of oil or vinegar, accord- 
ing to taste, very slightly. If the 
sauce Is not thoroughly mixed it will 
curdle. It is now ready to be served 
with cold meats, fish or salads. 

Vinegar Dressln^r* 

Sauce Vinaigrette 

12 Shallots. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Vinegar. 

5 Tablespoonfuls of Oil. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Chopped Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Mix all together, as In a Sauce Rav- 

Igote, cold (see recipe), and add the 

oil and vinegar; serve cold, with cold 

boiled meat, cold boiled fish, etc. 



154 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



Anchovy Salad. 

StUade d^AnchoU 

1 Box of Anchovies. 
A Plain French Dressingr. 

Cut the anchovies Into pieces of 
about an inch in length. Season nice- 
ly with a French Dressing, and serve. 
This is a delicious luncheon dish. 



Artichoke Salad. 

ArtichautB en Salade 

1 Pint of Cold Boiled Jerusalem Arti- 
chokes. 
1 Teaspoonful of Vinegar. 
1 Teaspoonful of Chopped Parsley. 
French Dressing. 

Boil the Artichokes. (See recipe.) 
When cold, peel them and cut into 
quarters. Add chopped parsley and 
the French dressing; mix, and serve 
very cold. 

Tips of Asparagros Salad. 

Pointea d'Aspergca en Salade 

1 Pint of Asparagus Tips. 
A Plain French Dressing. 

Boil the Asparagus Tips. (See rec- 
ipe.) When cold, place on a dish and 
garnish nicely. Serve very cold, with 
French Dressing. 

Bean Salad. 

Salade d' Haricots 

1 Pint of Cold Beans. 
Vinaigrette Sauce. 

This is a nice way of utilizing cold 
left-over red or white beans. Serve 
with a Vinaigrette Sauce. (See rec- 
ipe.) 

Beet Salad. 

Salade de Bctteraves 
4 Large Red Beets. French Dressing. 
Boil the beets till done, and then 
peel and slice nicely. Set them to cool 
and pour over them a French Dress- 
ing or a plain dressing of vinegar, salt 
and pepper. This is a nice spring or 
winter salad in New Orleans. 

Cauliflower Salad. 

Choufleur d la Vinaigrette 

1 Pint of Boiled Cauliflower. 

1 Teaspoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

1 Teaspoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. 

A French Dressing (plain). 

Boil the cauliflower as directed. 
(See recipe.) Then separate the flow- 
erets; mix them with parsley, and cut 
the remainder very fine and mix also. 
Let it cool. Sreve with a French 
Dressing, after adding first an extra 
teaspoonful of Tarragon vinegar. 



Celery Salad. 

Salade de 04leri 

^ ^^ 1 Pint of Crisp French Celery. 

2 Hard-Boiled Eggs. French Dressing. 

Cut the celery into pieces of about 
a quarter of an inch. Chop two hard- 
boiled egg^, not too fine, and mix well 
with the chopped celery. Blend ail 
with French Dressing and serve. This 
is a delicious salad. 



Celery Mayonnaises 

Mayonnaise de 06leri 

1 Pint of Crisp White Celery. 
A Mayonnaise Sauce. 

Chop the celery, or, rather, cut fine, 

as indicated in the above recipe. Mix 

the Mayonnaise with It. Garnish 

nicely with celery tips and serve. The 

mustard dressing is even nicer than 

the Mayonnaise for this salad. 

Chervil Salad. 

Salade de Cerfeuil. 

1 Pint of Chervil. 
A Plain French Dressing. 

Chervil is a delicious salad herb. 

much affected by French and Creole* 

gourmets. It is served cut fine, in the 

same manner as Lettuce Salad, with 

a French Dressing. 

Chicken Salad. 

Mayonnaise de Volatile 

1 Pint of Cold Boiled Chicken. 
1-2 Pint of Mayonnaise Sauce. • 
1 Head of Crisp P'resh Lettuce. 

Cut the chicken into small dice. 
Chop half of the lettuce very fine, 
and season well with salt and pepper. 
Make a bed of the remainder of the 
lettuce leaves, and place first a layer 
of the chicken and then the lettuce, 
until you have used all. Spread the 
Mayonnaise Sauce over the top nicely, 
and garnish prettily with slices of 
cold hard-boiled eggs, sliced beets, 
celery tips, etc. For chicken and 
celery salad follow the recipe for Vo- 
laille en Salade, given under the head- 
ing of "Poultry." (See recipe.) Left- 
over chicken may be utilized in either 
of these salads. 

Crab Salad, Mayonnaise. 

Mayonnaise de Ordbes 

1 Pint of Crab Meat (hard shell). 

Mayonnaise. 

Hard-Boiled Eggs. Garnishes. 

Boil and pick crabs suflicient to ^ve 
a pint of meat (See recipe for Boil- 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



155 



ing: Crabs.) Season well with salt and 
pepper. Place in a dish, on a bed of 
crisp lettuce leaves, spreading over 
them the Mayonnaise Sauce, and gar- 
nish nicely with hard-boiled eggs, 
sliced beets and tips of celery. 

Crawfish Salad. 

Mayonnaise d'ScrevUaes 

3 Dozen Crawfish. 
A Sauce & la Mayonnaise. 

Boil the crawfish, pick the meat out 
of the shells, heads and tails, break 
it into pieces, and prepare in pre- 
cisely the same manner as Shrimp 
Salad. 

Cress Salad. 

Salade de Cresaon 
Cress. Vinegar. Salt and Pepper. 
Prepar(; in^ exactly the samo man- 
ner as lettuce, washing and bringing 
to the table firm and crisp. In this 
salad use for dressing only Tarragon 
vinegar, salt and pepper to taste. 

Cucumber Salad. 

SaJade de Concomhrea 

2 Fine Cucumbers. 
A Plain French Dressing. 

Wash and slice two nice young cu- 
cumbers, and use a plain dressing of 
vinegar, salt and pepper. 

Com Salad. 

Salade de Machfa, ou Doucette, 

1 Pint of Corn Salad. 
A Plain French Dressing. 

This is an excellent salad, and is 

prepared and served with a French 

Dressing. Take one pint of fresh 

Doucette and pare off the outer stale 

leaves, if there are any; cut off the 

roots. Wash the Doucette well in two 

waters, drain In a napkin and place 

in the salad bowl. When ready to 

serve add a plain French Dressing, 

but not before. Mix well, so that 

every portion will be impregnated 

with the dressing. Serve very cold. 

A garnish of two hard-boiled eggs, 

sliced or cut in quarters, or of two 

medium-sized beets, may be added 

both for taste and effect. 

Dandelion Salad. 

Salade de Dent-de-IAon 

1 Pint of Fresh White Dandelion. 
A Plain French Dressing. 

Cut off the roots and green portion 
of the leaves; wash and steep in salt 



and water. When they become crisp, 
drain and press dry; rub the salad 
bowl with a clove of garlic and sea- 
son the dandelions with French 
Dressing. This salad may also be 
served with two hard-boiled eggs cut 
In quarters or sliced and laid over; 
or with two medium-sized beets, 
sliced, and seasoned with a plain 
French Dressing. 

Endive Salad. 

Salade de Chicorie • 

1 Pint of Endive. French Dressing. 
1 Teaspoonful of Chervil, Chopped Very 

Fine. 

Prepare the endive in the same 

manner as the lettuce. When ready 

to serVe, add the chervil and the 

French Dressing. If endive stands, 

like lettuce, it will wilt after being 

dressed. Serve immediately. 

Fish Salad. 

Salade de Poiaaon d la Mayonnaiae 

1 Pint of Cold Boiled Fish. 
1 Head of Lettuce. Mayonnaise Sauce. 

Use cold boiled left-over fish, pick- 
ing nicely into bits of about an inch 
and a half square. Follow the same 
directions as in the above recipes, 
only do not mix lettuce and fish in 
layers. There is nothing nicer than 
a fine fish salad.' 

Green Pepper Salad. 

Salade de Pimenta Douit d la Criole 

4 Tomatoes. 2 Green Peppers. 1 Large 

Onion. 
French Dressing, Plain. 

Slice the tomatoes, onion and green 

peppers very thin, arrange them on 

a dish, putting a layer of tomatoes, 

with alternate layers of onion, green 

pepper and tomatoes mixed. Dress 

either before bringing to the table, or 

at the table, with French Dressing. 

This is a great Creole family salad. 

and a very healthful one. 

Gre^ Peppers Spanish Style. 

Pimenta Verta en Salade d VEapagnole 

6 Green Peppers. 3 Tomatoes. 
A Plain French Dressing. 

Parboil the peppers so that they 
will peel easily, and scald the toma- 
toes. Peel all and remove the seeds 
of the peppers. Cut the peppers into 
one-inch pieces, slice the tomatoes, 
and serve with plain French Dressing 
as a salad. 



156 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



Ijentll Salad. 

Salade de LentiUct. 

1 Pint of Lentils. 
A Vinaigrette Sauce (see recipe). 

Lentils are prepared in the same 
manner as Bean Salad (see recipe), 
and served with Vinaigrette Sauce. 
They make a cheap, excellent and 
healthy salad. 

Lettuce Salad. 

Salade dc Laitue. 

3 Heads of Lettuce. 
French Dressing. 2 Kggs. 

Have fresh, crisp lettuce sufficient 
in quantity for the number to be 
served. Dip in cold water, examin- 
ing each leaf, and pick over carefully 
and select the fresh, crisp leaves. 
Place all these in a salad bowl, and 
garnish nicely with sliced hard-boiled 
egg. Never dress the lettuce before 
bringing to the table. The vinegar 
causes the leaves to wilt utterly, and 
takes away the pleasure which is 
experienced from looking at a fresh, 
crisp dish, and also spoils a fine tabic 
garnish. Bring in the lettuce and have 
made at the table the sauce, a plain 
French Dressing or Creole Dressing 
as preferred. 

Louisiana Salad. 

Salade Louisianaise 

2 Lettuce Heads. 6 Pickled Cucumbers. 

2 Dozen Pickled Onions. A Plain 

French Dressing. 

ITse, in this fancy salad, lettuce, 
pickled cucumbers, pickled onions, cui: 
in dice, and serve with a French 
Dressing. 

Okra Salad. 

Salade de Fevi 

4 Dozen Boiled Young Okra. 
French Dressing. 

Boll the okra as directed. (See rec- 
ipe.) When cold, dress nicely with 
vinegar, salt and pepper, or, if pre- 
ferred, the plain French Dressing, 
and serve very cold. This i^a most 
delightful salad, the okra bemg very 
cooling In our tropical climate. 

Spanish Salad. 

Salade a VEspagnolv 

4 Sliced Tomatoes. 2 Dozen Pickled 

Onions. 
V4 Pint of Mayonnaise Dressing. 

This Is a favorite southern salad, 
made of sliced tomatoes and pickled 



onions, prettily arranged around a, 
small bed of Mayonnaise heaped in 
the center. 

Strinfc Bean Salad. 

Haricot » Verts en Salade 

1 Pint of Cold Boiled String Beans. 
French Dressing (plain). 

Only very young and tender beans 
should be used for this salad. Boil 
as directed under the heading "Vege- 
tables," and put the beans in a salad 
bowl and allow to cool well. Serve 
with a plain French Dressing, or, bet- 
ter still, a simple dressing of vinega»- 
and a dash of Cayenne. 

Tomato Salad. 

Salade de Tomatea 

4 Fresh. Fine Tomatoes. 
French Dressing. 

Slice the tomatoes nicely and place 
on a salad dish. Never peel or scald 
tomatoes Intended for salad. Serve 
nicely with a plain French Dressing 
or any of the above dressings. Toma- 
toes may also be served with Mayon- 
naise Dressing. In this case place 
them, whole and peeled, on a bed 
of crisp, fresh lettuce, if thus pre- 
ferred, and serve one to each person, 
or cut them in halves. Tomatoes with 
Mayonnaise is a luncheon or a supper 
dish. 

I(•c^d Tomatoes. 

Tomatea Frappdea 

6 Whole Tomatoes. 1 Pint Mayonnaise 

Sauce. 
A Grarnlsh of Chopped Ice. 

Take the tomatoes whole. Lay on 
a bed of lettuce or cress, as indicated 
above. Garnish with chopped ice, 
and serve very cold with Mayonnaise 
Sauce. 

Tomato, Gre<»n Pepper and Onion 

Salad. 

Salade a la Creole 

4 Tomatoes. 2 Green Peppers. 1 Large 

Onion. 
French Dressing (plain). 

Slice the tomatoes, onions and green 
peppers very thin and arrange them 
on a dish, placing a layer of tomatoes, 
and alternate layers of onion, green 
pepper, and tomatoes mixed. Dress 
either before bringing to the table, 
or at the table, with French Dressing. 
This is a great family salad among 
the Creoles, and a healthful one. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



157 



The Creoles follow the old adage, that 
the taste of the onion must only lurk 
within the bowl when using It for 
salad. More than this renders the 
salad disagreeable and coarse. 

Watercress Salad. 

Salade de Crcsson 

1 Pint of Watercress. 
Minced Potato, if desired. 
A Plain French Dressing. 

This salad is made of watercress 
simply, or watercress and minced po- 
tatoes, mixed in equal quantities, and 
served with a French Dressing. It 
is a most healthful, light and excellent 
salad, especially in summer. 

Vegetable Salad. 

Salade d la Jardiniere 

1 Carrot. 3 Beets. 
^ Cup of Green Peas. 1 Cup String 

Beans. 
A Plain French Dressing. 

Take fine strips of vegetables of 
different colors, cooked and cold, with 
green peas and string beans, and dress 
nicely with oil and vinegar and serve. 

Sardine Salad. 

Salade de Sardines 

1 Box of Sardines. 

A Plain French Dressing. 

Cut the sardines into pieces of 
about half an inch in length. Season 
nicely with a French Dressing and 
serve. This is a delicious luncheon 
dish. 

Potato Salad. 

Salade dc Pommes dc Terre 

3 Large Cold Boiled Potatoes. 

2 Hard- Boiled Eggs. 

6 Tablespoonsfuls of Olive Oil. 
3 Tablespoonsfuls of Vinegar. 1 Liarge 

Onion. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

4 Sprigs of Parsley. 

This is a nice way of utilizing cold 
left-over potatoes. But the freshly 
boiled potatoes always make the nic- 
est salad: Pare and peel the potatoes. 
If freshly boiled, and let them cool. 



Prepare the salad dressing, following 
implicity the directions given for plain 
French Dressing, only here the quan- 
tities are larger in proportion. Add 
the vinegar, stirring constantly. A 
dash of mustard may be added, if 
desired. Mince the onion very fine, 
and cut the potatoes into dice or 
slices, and mix them carefully with 
the onion. Then add the dressing, 
turning the potatoes into it without 
breaking. Sprinkle all with parsley, 
nicely chopped, and serve cold. 

Russian Salad. 

Salade d la Ruaae. 

2 Carrots. 2 Parsnips. 
1 Cup of Cold Minced Fowl. 

3 Anchovies. 

1 Dozen Olives. 3 Caviares. 

1 Tablespoon ful of Sauce h la Tartare. 

1 Teaspoonful of Mustard. 

This salad is made of cooked car- 
rots, parsnips, beets, cold roast beef, 
cold ham, a truffle (if it can be af- 
forded), all cut into fancy dt dice- 
shaped pieces. I^se one ounce of each 
of the meats, or simply one cup of 
cold minced fowl, as it may not be 
convenient to have all these meats 
at hand in households. Add six boned 
anchovies, and one dozen olives and 
two caviares, and serve with Tartare 
Sauce, or with a French Salad Dress- 
ing, to which mustard has been added. 
This is a heavy salad. 

Shrimp Salad. 

Salade dc Chevrettcs, MayonnaUte 

2 Pints of Cold Boiled Shrimp. 
1 Head of Crisp Lettuce. Mayonnaise 

Sauce. 

Take Lake Shrimp and River 
Shrimp combined, if you have them. 
Cut the larger Lake Shrimp into two. 
Season well with salt and pepper. 
Chop some lettuce. Season well. 
Place first a layer of shrimp and then 
of lettuce, and spread over all a 
Mayonnaise Sauce. Qarnish nicely 
with sliced hard-boiled eggs, sliced 
beets and celery and lettuce tips, and 
serve very cold. 



168 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER XXIII 




De9 Oeufa 



A chapter on eggs would be super- 
fluous In any cook book, were it not 
for the fact that there are women 
who cannot tell to a real certainty 
how long to boll an egg soft or hard, 
when the omelette is cooked to a 
nicety, and how to send to the table 
in all the perfection of good cooking 
that most delicate and palatable dish, 
"Scrambled Eggs." 

The Creoles have very wisely es- 
chewe(\ all innovations in cooking 
eggs that require more than five to 
eight minutes to cook to perfection. 
They cling to the old-fashioned soft- 
boiled eggy the hard-boiled egg, fried 
egg* scrambled and poached eggs. 
They have retained many ancient 
French and Spanish methods of cook- 
ing eggs, but none of these, followed 
properly, according to the time- 
honored customs, calls for more than 
five or eight minutes at the most in 
cooking. 

The first and most important point 
to be considered in preparing eggs for 
the table is to ascertain whether they 
are perfectly fresh. The fresher the 
egg the better. Never, under any cir- 
cumstances, put a tainted egg in any 
dish, under the impression that other 
ingredients will hide the flavor. Never 
put such an egg in a cake. The 
presence of one egg that is not fresh 
will ruin an entire dish. 

The Old Creole darkles, in common 
with many other people, have a way 
of finding out whether an egg is fresh 
by inclosing it in the hollow of the 
hand and looking through it with one 
eye, while shutting the other. They 
aver that if you can distinctly trace 
the yolk in one solid mass, and if the 
white ar,ound it looks clear, the egg 
is good. 'A more simple and scientific 
way, and by far a surer one, is to drop 
the eggs into cold water. The fresh 
ones will sink immediately to the 
bottom, the doubtful ones wUl swim 



around a little before sinking, and the 
bad ones will fioat. 

Eggs are among the most nutritious 
articles of food. They are especially 
rich in albumen, and their free use 
cannot be too highly recommended to 
delicate persons, to hard brain work- 
ers, and to families generally. 

Boiled Eggs. 

Oeufs d la Coque 

Have ready a saucepan of boiling 
water. Use only fresh eggs. Put them 
in the boiling water without cracking 
the shells. If you desire soft-boiled 
eggs, or "Oeufs Mollets," let the eggs 
boil from two minutes to two minutes 
and a half by the clock, keeping the 
exact time, minute by minute. The 
whites will then be set. If you desire 
the yolk to be set also in the soft- 
boiled egg, let the eggs boll three 
minutes, but not a second longer. For 
hard-boiled eggs, five minutes is suflS- 
clent. Bear In mind always that the 
water must be boiling hard before 
you put eggs Into It, and that the ex- 
act time for boiling must be followed 
by the clock, or with a watch in hand. 



Poached Eggs. 
Oeufa Poch6% 

Have a frying pan filled with boil- 
ing water. Add salt. Some add also 
a tablespoonful of vinegar as this 
helps to keep the eggs whole. The 
eggs must be absolutely fresh. Crack 
the eggs Into a saucer, one by one, 
and gently slip off Into the water, 
without breaking the yolks. Break an- 
other and another, until you have four 
In the pan, allowing them all to stand 
apart Let them boil thus In the 
water, till the white forms a thin veil 
over the yolks. Then the eggs are 
done. Take them up gently, neatly 
round Off the ragged edges, sprinkle 



XH£ PICAYUNC: CREOIM COOK BOOK 



159 



the tops with a little black pepper, 
place on buttered toast, and serve 
immediately. 

Fried "Eggs. 

Oeufa Frit$ 

6 KggB. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of LArd. 

The lard must be very hot. Break 
the eggs neatly into a saucer, one 
by one, and slide them into the lard, 
without breaking the yolks. With the 
spoon take up a little of the hot lard 
and drop gently over the top of the 
egg, if you wish it to be quite done. 
Otherwise simply fry till the yolk is 
set. Slide out on a batter cake turner, 
and place in a dish. Sprinkle with 
salt and black pepper, and add, if you 
wish, a little parsley garnish, and 
serve very hot. 



Ham and Eggs. 
Oeuf9 au Jamhon 

6 Slices of Ham. 

6 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

The ham should always . be soaked 
in hot water before frying. Cut slices 
of about half an inch in thickness, of 
sufficient size to set an egg upon 
them. I^y the ham in the hot frying 
pan, and let it fry until the fat be- 
comes transparent. Then take the 
slices out and put them on a hot dish. 
Break the eggs, one by one, into a 
saucer, and slip them into the frying 
pan, and fry in the same lard in 
which you have fried the ham. When 
the yolks are quite set, take them 
out, and lay one egg on each slice 
of ham. Garnish nicely with parsley, 
and serve hot. 



Scrambled Eggs. 
OeufB Brouillis 

6 Fresh Eggs. A Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Break the eggs into a saucer, one 
by one, and then transfer to a bowl. 
Season well with salt and pepper. 
Have the frying pan very hot. Put 
into It the butter, and add immedi- 
ately the eggs, and keep stirring 
around and around and across for 
about three or four minutes. Judging 
by the consistency of the egg, which 
must be like a thick mush as you 
take it from the fire. Keep stirring 
a few seconds longer after you have 



taken the pan ott the fire, and put 
the eggs into a hot dish, and garnish 
with parsley and serve immediately 
with buttered toast or broiled ham. 
The beauty of the scrambled egg • is 
that the whites and yolks are deli- 
cately blended. The practice of beat- 
ing the yolks and whites thoroughly 
together, as for an omelette, before 
scrambling the eggs, is to be con- 
demned as against the best ethics of 
Creole cookery. There Is no compari- 
son in the taste of the scrambled egg 
cooked according to the above method 
and 'the eggs in which the yolks and 
whites have been previously beaten 
together. 



Eggs Scrambled in Ham. 

Oeufa BrouillSa au Jamhon 

6 eggs. 

8 Tablespoonfuls of Finely Minced 

Boiled Ham. 

A Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Mince the ham very fine, and break 
the eggs, one by one, into a saucer, 
and add to the bowl in which you 
have minced the ham. Mix all to- 
gether. Place a tablespoonful of but- 
ter in the frying pan, add the eggs 
and ham, stir briskly, and when it 
comes to the consistency of starch 
take off the fire, and serve hot on but- 
tered toast. 

In the same manner eggs may be 
scrambled with minced truffles, mush- 
rooms, onions, celery or tomatoes. 



Eggs Scrambled With Preserves. 

Oeufa Brouill6a aux Confiturea 

6 Eggs. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Fruit Marmalade. 

Eggs may also be scrambled with 
marmalade of apricots or prunes, in 
which case they are called "Oeufs 
Brouill6s aux Confitures." Follow 
above recipe, uping the marmalade in- 
stead of the ham. 



Cheese and Eggs. 

Oeufa Fondua au Fromage 

6 Eggs. 

4 Heaping Teaspoon fuls of Gruy^re 

Cheese, Orated. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Break the eggs into a saucepan, 
add the butter, the grated cheese, a 
little salt and pepper. Place the 
saucepan on a hot fire, stir the mix- 
ture around and around till the edges 



160 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIjE GOOK BOOK 



begin to thicken, and when of the 
consistency of a thick starch take off 
the fire and serve immediately on 
buttered toast. 

Eggs With Asparagus Tips. 

Oeufa auw Pointea d'Agpergei 

6 Eggs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Asparagus Tips. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Milk. Salt and 

Pepper. 
Buttered Toast 

Boil the asparagus tips (see recipe), 
and put the eggs into a saucepan, 
with the butter, after seasoning well 
with salt and pepper, and mixing in 
the milk. Stir a second, throw in the 
asparagus, and scramble as in pre- 
ceding recipe. Serve on buttered toast. 

Cauliflower may be prepared with 
eggs in the same way. 

Shirred 'Eggs, 

Oeufa 8ur le Plat 

6 Eggs. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Break the eggs into a well buttered 
dish or pan, then sprinkle them with 
a little salt* and pepper, pour over a 
little melted butter, place in a quick 
oven, and let them bake until the 
yolks are set. Serve in the dish in 
which they have been cooked. 

Eggs h la Poulette. 

Ocufa d Zc Poulette 
6 Eggs. H Pint of Sauce A la Poulette. 
Boil the eggs hard and slice. Pour 
over them a Sauce k la Poulette (see 
recipe), and serve hot. 



Beauregard 

Oeufa d la Beauregard 

6 Eggs. H Pint of Fresh Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Cornstarch. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the eggs for five minutes, till 
hard. Then take out of the water, 
cool, peel, and carefully separate the 
whites from the yolks, rubbing the 
latter through a sieve, and chopping 
the former very fine. But do not 
mix them. Have the milk ready to 
boil, and rub the butter and corn- 
starch together, and add to the boiling 
milk. Then add the whites of the 
eggs, and salt and pepper to taste. 
Prepare previous to this some but- 
tered toast, and cover it now with a 



layer of this white sauce, and then 
add a layer of the yolks of the es8& 
Add another layer of the sauce, and 
another layer of the yolks, and then 
the remainder of the sauce. Sprinkle 
the top with a little salt and pepper. 
set it in the oven, let it stand fvro 
minutes, and serve hot. 



Plain Omdet. 

Omelette 

4 Fresh Eggs. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

If you wish to have the omelet very 
nice, break the whites and yolks sep- 
arately, and beat the former till they 
come to a light froth, and the latter 
till they are quite light. Then beat 
the whites and yolks together. Sea- 
son well. Melt the butter in a frying 
pan. letting it grow hot, but not by 
any means brown. Pour in the mix- 
ture of egg. Let it stand about two 
minutes, shaking occasionally to pre- 
vent it from sticking to the pan. Con- 
tinue shaking over a quick fire until 
the eggs are set. Then roll the ome- 
let, folding it in two or three rolls 
and making it long and narrow. Take 
a hot dish, turn the omelet into It, 
garnish with parsley, and serve hot 
immediately, or it will fall.* It is al- 
ways easier to make several small 
.omelets and have them pretty and 
sightly than to succeed perfectly In 
making a large one. 



Creole Omelet. 

Omelette d la Oriole 

6 Fine, Ripe Tomatoes. 2 Oniona 

6 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Minced Ham. 

% Clove of Garlic. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Scald and skin six fine, ripe toma- 
toes, and chop them fine. Chop two 
onions, and mince the garlic very fine, 
and add a large spoonful of bread 
crumbs. Fry them with a tablespoon- 
ful of butter in a saucepan till quite 
brown. Then add the tomatoes, and 
salt, pepper and Cayenne to taste, and 
let all stew for an hour, at least. Pre- 
pare the eggs as for Ham Omelet 
(see recipe), and when the tomatoes 
are quite done have ready, a heated 
frying pan and a half tablespoonful 
of butter. Pour them into the pan. 
As they become set pour in the cen- 






THB PICAYUNB CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



161 



ter the tomatoes, and fold the omelet 
over, and cook for t^^o minutes long- 
er. Roll gently into a dish and serve 
hot. 

Ham Omelet. 

Omelette au Jambon 

4 Eggs. % Teaspoonful of Flour. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Milk. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Chopped Ham. 

V& Orated Onion. 

1 Tablespoonful of -Chopped Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Beat the yolks to a cream, and add 

the other ingredients. Rub all these 

smoothly together, and then add the 

whites of eggs, beaten to a froth. 

Beat all thoroughly together. Put a 

tablespoonful of butter in the frying 

pan. When it melts add the omelet. 

Let it stand, shaking occasionally to 

prevent from sticking to the pan, till 

the eggs are quite set. Then fold as 

in a plain omelet, turn into a hot 

dish and serve. 



Kidney Omelet. 

Omelette auw Roffnona 

3 Kidneys. 

6 E2ggs. 

IVi Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Cut the fat from the kidneys, wash 

well, and cut into small pieces. Mix 

these with the eggs, which you will 

have prepared as for a plain omelet, 

and proceed as in Ham Omelet. This 

is very nice served with Tomato 

Sauce. 

Mushroom Omelet. 

Omelette aux Champiffnona 

6 Eggs. 

\i Can of Mushrooms. 

IH Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Stew the mushrooms a few minutes. 
Then chop them fine. Make a plain 
omelet. When it is ready to fold, 
place the mushrooms across the cen- 
ter, fold twice over, let it cook two 
minutes longer, and serve hot. 



Onion Omelet. 

Omelette d VOignon 

4 Eggs. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Large Onion Minced Very Fine. 

Beat the eggs as for a plain omelet. 
Then stew the onions in the butter 
till quite tender. Stir them in the 
omelet once, and let it cook as in a 
plain omelet. Roll in folds, and serve 
hot. 

Omelet Souffle. 

Omelette BouJfUe 

The Whites of 6 Eggs. The Yolks of 4 

Eggs. 
The Juice of Half a Lemon, or a Spoon 

of Orange Flower Water. 
4 Tablespoonfuls of Powdered White 

Sugar. 

Have a baking dish ready, greased 
with butter, and be sure that the oven 
is very hot. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff broth. Beat the yolks 
and the sugar to a cream, and add the 
Juice of half a lemon or a tablespoon- 
ful of orange flower water. Add the 
whites of the eggs. Stir carefully and 
'heap all quickly into the baking dish 
and bake about fifteen minutes, till 
the top is a delicate brown. Serve 
immediately, as it will fall if allowed 
to stand. This may be served as a 
sweet entremet or as a dessert. 



Parsley Omelet. 

Omelette au Persil 

6 Eggs. IH Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
1 Tablespoonful of Cut Parsley. 

Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for Plain Omelet, only mix a 
tablespoonful of cut parsley in the 
omelet before putting it in the frying 
pan. 

Tniffle Omelet. 

Omelette aux Truffee 

6 Eggs. 2 Truffles. 
1% Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

An omelet with trufiles is made in 
the same manner as a Mushroom 
Omelet. 



162 



THE picayune: CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER XXIV 



Li vj U 1 3./^^^^ rvlv^lL 



Le Riz de la Louisianne 



The cultivation of rice began in 
Louisiana nearly a hundred years 
after It commenced In Georgria and 
South Carolina, but Louisiana now 
produces more of this beautiful grrain 
than both these states combined. It 
Is one of the great Louisiana staple?, 
and New Orleans .is the distributing 
point of the crop that yearly makes 
our rice fields of Southwestern Louisi- 
ana the wonder and admiration of 
tourists. In no section of the world 
can rice be grown at so small a cost as 
in Louisiana and it requires but little 
capital to begin such a business. 

The following recipes, carefully se- 
lected from among many that are 
used in New Orleans, will give an 
idea of how rice is prepared and made 
such a delightful article of food in 
all Creole households: 

How to Prepare Rice for Cooking. 

The whiteness of the rice depends 
in a great degree upon its being 
washed thoroughly. Pick the rice 
clean, and wash it well in cold water 
before attempting to cook, rubbing 
the rice well with the hands to get 
all the dust off. Pour off the first 
water, and add fresh; then pour off 
this, and add fresh again. The rice 
will then be ready to cook. 

How to Boil Rice. 

When properly boiled, rice should 
be snowy white, perfectly dry and 
smooth, and every grain separate and 
distinct. To attain this end, put a 
quart of water on the fire, and let it 
boil well, with a teaspoonful of salt. 
Wash a cup of rice well in cold water. 
When the water commences to boil 
well add the rice. The boiling water 
will tos's the grains of rice, and pre- 
vent them from clinging together. As 
soon as the grains commence to soft- 
en do not, under any circumstances, 



stir or touch the rice again. Let it 
continue to boil rapidly for about 
twenty minutes, or until the grains 
begin to ^well out, and it appears to 
thicken. This is easily ascertained by 
touching one of the grains with your 
finger. When it has reached this 
stage take the cover off and pour off 
the water, and set the pot in the oven, 
so that the rice may swell up. Let it 
stand in the oven about ten minutes. 
Do not let it brown, but simply dry — 
that is, let the water which rises dry 
out of the rice. Take it off. and let 
it stand a few minutes. Then pour 
out into a dish. Every grain w^lll be 
white and beautiful, and stand apart 
because the drying in the oven will 
have . evaporated the moisture, leav- 
ing the rice soft, snowy white and 
perfectly dry. 

Boiled rice is delicious served with 
chicken, turkey, crab or shrimp or 
okra gumbo, as also with many vege- 
tables, all daubes, and with gravies 
of all kinds. It is the standing dish 
of every Creole table. 

Creole Jambalaya. 

Jambalaya d la Creole 

Jambalaya is a Spanish-Creole dish, 
which is a great favorite in New Or- 
leans, and is made according to the 
following recipe. 

One and a Half Cups of Rice. 

1 Pound of Fresh Pork. 1 Slice of Ham. 

1 Dozen Fine Chaurices (Pork 
Sausages). 

2 Onions. 1 Tablespoon ful of Butter. 

2 Cloves of Garlic. 
2 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

2 Bay Leaves. 2 Cloves Ground Very 

Fine. 

3 Quarts of Beef Broth or Hot Water. 

(Broth Preferred.) 

% Spoonful of Chili Pepper. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Cut the pork very fine, lean and 
fat, into pieces of about* half an inch 
square. Chop the onions very fine, 
and mince the garlic and fine herta 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIjE COOK BOOK 



163 



Grind the cloves. Put a tablespoonful 
of butter into the sauce pan, and add 
the onions and pork, and let them 
brown slowly. Stir frequently, and 
let them continue browning slightly. 
At this stage, add the slice of ham, 
chopped very fine, and the cloves of 
garlic. Then add the minced herbs, 
thyme, bay leaf and parsley and 
cloves. Let all this brown for five 
minutes longer, and add a dozen fine 
Chaurices, cut apart, and let all cook 
five minutes longer. Then add the 
three quarts of water or broth, al- 
ways using in preference the broth. 
Let it all cook for ten minutes, and 
when it comes to a boil add the rice, 
which has been carefully washed. 
Then add to this a half teaspoon ful 
of Chili pepper, and salt and Cayenne 
to taste. The Creoles season highly 
with Cayenne. Let all boil for a half 
hour longer, or until the rice is firm, 
and serve hot. 

Crab Jambalaya. 

Jambalaya aux Crabes 

1 Dozen Fine, Large Crabs. 

IH Cups of Rice. 3 Quarts of Broth. 

3 Tomatoes. 2 Onions. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 2 Cloves of 

Garlic 

2 Sprigs of Thyme. 2 Bay Leaves. 

^ Teaspoonful of Chili Pepper. 

Salt and Black Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the crabs according to recipe. 
(See "Boiled Crabs.) Then cut in 
pieces, cutting the bodies into quar- 
ters.. Proceed in exactly the same 
manner as in making Shrimp Jam- 
balaya. 

Jambalaya an Congri. 

JamlKilaya au Congri 

1 Cup of Rice. 

1 Pint of Cowpeas. 

1 Large Onion. 

^ Pound of Salt Meat. 1 Square Inch 

of Ham. 

Chop the salt meat, after washing, 
into dice, and mince the ham. Boil 
the cowpeas and the salt meat and 
ham together. Add the onion, minced 
very fine. Boil the rice according to 
recipe for boiled rice. (See recipe.) 
Chop the meat well. After the peas 
and the rice are cooked, pour the 
rice into the pot of peas, which must 
not be dry, but very moist. Mix well. 
Let all simmer for five minutes, and 
then serve hot. On Fridays and fast 
days the Creoles boil the peas in 
water, adding a tablespoonful of but- 



ter, but no meat. It is again but- 
tered according to individual taste at 
table. The Jambalaya, however, is 
much nicer when made with the 
meat. 

Shrimp Jambalaya. 

Jambalaya auw Chevrettea 

IH Cups of Rice. 3 Tomatoes. 

8t) Lake Shrimp. 

2 Onions. Cayenne to Taste. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoon- 

ful Flour. 
% Teaspoonful of Chili Pepper. 
Salt. Pepper. 2 Cloves of Garlic. 

2 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

Chop two onions very fine, and put 
. them in a saucepan to brown with a 
tablespoonful of butter. After a few 
minutes add a tablespoonful of flour 
and stir well. Then add chopped 
thyme, bay leaf and parsley, and two 
cloves of garlic, minced very fine. Let 
all of this fry five minutes longer, 
and be careful not to let it burn or 
brown too much. Add a half tea- 
spoonful of Chili pepper, and three 
large tomatoes, chopped fine, and also 
add the Juice. Let all brown or simmer 
for ten minutes longer. When cooked 
add three quarts of broth or water, 
or If on Friday, and you do not eat 
meat, add oyster water or plain water 
(the former preferred) which has 
been heated to the boiling point. Let 
all boil well, and then add the lake 
shrimp, which you will already have 
boiled according to recipe. (See recipe 
for Boiled Shrimp.) Let the mixture 
boil again for five minutes, and add 
one cup and a half of rice, or half a 
pound, which has been well washed. 
Mix all well, and l<3t boil for half or 
three-quarters of an hour longer, stir- 
ring every once in a while, so as to 
mix all together. ' Serve hot. 

A French Plloo* 

Pilott Francais 

2 Chickens. % Cup of Rice. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

The Yolks of 2 Eggs. Bread Crumbs. 

Boil the fowls according to recipe. 
(See recipe Boiled Chicken.) When 
done, take out about a pint of the 
liquor In which it was boiled, and put 
the rice which you will have washed 
well. Into the remaining boiling broth. 
Let It cook well for twenty minutes, 
and then add two tablespoonfuls of 
butter to the rice. Butter the bottom 
of a dish, and put upon It one-half 
of the rice, spreading out nicely. Lay 



164 



THE PICAYUIfE CREOIi£ COOK BOOK 



upon it the chickens, which have been 
disjointed and buttered. Add the re- 
maining chicken broth, pouring over 
the chickens. Then cover the fowls 
with the other half of the rice. Make 
the top perfectly smooth. Spread over 
it the yolks of two esrgrs, which have 
been well beaten. Sprinkle with bread 
crumbs, and dot with little bits of 
butter here and there. Set in the 
oven, let it brown, and serve hot. 

Chicken With Rice. 

Poulet au Riz 

1 Youngr Chicken. ^ Cup of Rice. 

Prepare and cook the chicken as 
in Poulet au Riz (see recipe under 
chapter on meat soups), only do not 
cut up the chicken, but stew it whole. 
When three-fourths done, add the 
rice, and in serving place the chicken 
in the center of the dish and heap the 
rice around. Young chickens are best 
for this dish. An old chicken may be 
cut up and cooked till tender, as in 
Poulet au Riz. 

Pilaff of Chicken. 

PUau de Volaille 

1 Chicken, About Four Pounds. 
^ Cup of Rice. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean and cut the chicken as you 
would for a fricassee. Put in a stew- 
pan and cover well with water. Add 
salt and pepper again to taste, having, 
of course, previously rubbed the fowl 
with salt and pepper. Let the chicken 
simmer gently for about an hour. 
Then take a half cup of rice and wash 
it thoroughly. Add it to the chicken. 
Salt again to taste, Cover and let 
all simmer for about twenty minutes 
longer. Then make a Tomato Sauce 
(see recipe). Dish the chicken and 
rice together setting the chicken in 
the center of the dish and the rice 
around for a border. Serve hot with 
the sauce. This dish can be nicely 
made from the remains of cold chick- 
en or mutton. 

How to >£ake a Kice Border. 

Bordure de Riz 

1 Cup of Rice. 1 Quart of Boiling 

Water. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt to Taste. 

Boll the rice according to recipe 
griven above, using one cup to one 



quart of boiling water. Boil rapldly 
for fifteen minutes. Pour off any 
water that remains oi\ top. Set In 
the oven to dry for about ten minutes. 
then drain. Season with salt and pep- 
per, and press into a well-buttered 
border mold. Put it in the oven and 
let it bake ten minutea Take out. 
Place a dish on the mold. Turn it 
upside down, and remove the mold. 
The hollow space in the center can 
be filled with a White or Brown Fric- 
assee of Chicken or Curry or Craw- 
fish. 

Curry of Crawflfdi. 

£cr€vi8se9 au Kari 

1 Cup of Rice. 3 Dozen Crawfish. 
2 Ounces of Butter. 1 Clove of Garlic. 
2 Sprigs of Thyme. 2 Sprigs of Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. Juice of Half a Lemon. 

1 Teaspoonful of Curry Powder. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 1 Quart of 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. A Dash of 

Cayenne. 

Boil the crawfish according to the 
recipe given. (See Boiled Crawfish.) 
Clean and pick the crawfish just as 
if for a fricassee. Put two ounces 
of butter in the frying pan. Cut one 
onion in slices, add it to the butter, 
letting it brown nicely. Then add 
the well seasoned crawfish, and fry 
them to a golden brown. Add one 
clove of garlic, finely minced, and 
minced thyme, parsley and bay leaf. 
Let this brown. After five minutes, 
add a quart of boiling water. Stir 
well. Season to taste with salt, pep- 
per and a dash of Cayenne. Simmer 
gently until the crawfish are very len- 
der. When done add the juice of half 
a lemon, and mix one even table- 
spoonful of Curry Powder and one of 
flour with a little water. Bring it to 
a smooth paste by rubbing well, and 
add it to the crawfish. Stir constant- 
ly, and let it boil five minutes longer. 
Serve with a border of boiled rice 
heaped around it. Curry of Chicken 
is made in the same manner, by add- 
ing the Curry Powder. 



Boiled Rice, Italian Style. 

Riz Bouilli a I'ltalienne 

1 Cup of Rice. A Slice of Breakfast 

Bacon. 
1 Tablespoonful of Orated Parmesan 
1 Pinch Saffron. Salt and Pepper to 

Taste. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Wash one cup of rice very carefully. 
To about a quart of boiling water, add 



THK PICAYUXE CREOIi£ COOK BOOK 



165 



a slice of bacon and a tablespoonful 
of grated Parmesan cheese, with a 
pinch of safCron. Let it boil well for 
five minutes. Then add the rice grad- 
ually, continuing to cook according 
to th^ recipe for boiled rice. When 
done, remove the bacon, dot the top 
with bits of butter, set in the stove to 
dry for ten minutes, and serve hot. 

Galas. 

"Belle Calat Trout ChaudI" 

Under this cry was sold by the an- 
cient Creole negrro women in the 
Frefich Quarter of New Orleans a de- 
licious rice cake, which was eaten 
with the morning cup of Caf6 au Lait. 
The Cala woman was always seen 
upon the streets until the last few 
years. She went the rounds in quaint 
bandana tignon, guinea blue dress and 
white apron, and carried on her 
head a covered bowl, in which were 
the dainty and hot Calas. Her cry, 
"Belle Cala! Tout Chaud!" would 
penetrate the morning air, and the 
old Creole cooks would rush to the 
doors to get the first fresh, hot Calas 
to carry to their masters and mis- 
tresses with the early morning cup of 
cofTee. The Cala women have passed 
away, but the custom of making Calas 
still remains. In many an ancient 
home the good housewife tells her 
daughters just how "Tante Zizi" 
made the Calas in her day, and so 
are preserved these ancient tradi- 
tional recipes. 

fYom one of the last of the olden 
Cala women, one who walked the 
streets of the French Quarter for fifty 
years and more, we have procured the 
following genuine Creole recipe: 

i>i Cup of Rice. 3 Cups Water (boiling). 

3 Egss. H Cup of Sugar. 

% Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

V& Teaspoonful of Grated Nutmeg, 

Powdered White Sugar. 

Soiling Lard. 

Put three cups of water in a sauce- 
pan and let it boil hard. Wash half 
a cup of rice thoroughly, and drain 
and t>Ut in the boiling water. Let it 
boil till very soft and mushy. Take 
it out and set it to cool. When cold, 
mash well and mix with the yeast, 
which you will have dissolved in a 
half cup of hot water. Set the rice 
to ride overnight. In the morning 
beat tl^ree eggs thoroughly, and add 
to the rice, mixing and beating well. 



Add a half cup of sugar and threo 
tablespoonfuls of fiour, to make the 
rice adhere. Mix well and beat thor- 
oughly, bringing it to a thick batter. 
Set to rise for fifteen minutes longer. 
Then add about a half teaspoonful of 
grated nutmeg, and mix well. Have 
ready a frying pan, in which there is 
boiling lard sufficient for the rice 
cakes to swim in. Test by dropping in 
a small piece of bread. If it becomes 
a golden brown the lard is ready, 
but if it burns or browns instantly it 
is too hot. The golden brown color is 
the true test. Take a large deep 
spoon, and drop a spoonful at a time 
of the preparation into the boiling 
lard, remembering always that the 
cake must not touch the bottom of 
the pan. Let fry to a nice brown. 
The old Cala women used to take 
the Calas piping hot, wrap them in 
a clean towel, basket or bowl, and 
rush through the streets with the wel- 
come cry, "Belle Cala! Tout Chaud!" 
ringing on the morning air. But in 
families the cook simply takes the 
Calas out of the frying pan and drains 
'off the lard by laying in a colander 
or on heated pieces of brown paper. 
They are then placed in a hot dish, 
sprinkled over with powdered sugar, 
and eaten hot with Caf6 au Lait. 



Rioe Waffles. 

. Oaufres 'de Riz 

1% Cups of Softly Boiled Rice. 
2 Ounces of Butter. 1 Pint of Scalded 

Milk. 

3 Eggs. 1 Teaspoonful of Baking 

Powder. 

H Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Tablespoonful of Wheat Flour. 

The rice must be cold and well 
mashed. Melt the two tablespoonfuls 
of butter in the milk, which must 
then be set to cool. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs and the whites separately, 
making the latter come to a stif^ 
froth. Mix the rice and milk. Beat 
thoroughly, and then add a half tea- 
spoonful of salt and one of baking 
powder, and the flour. Put the yolks 
into the batter, first blending well, 
and lastly add the whites, and beat 
well again. The waffle iron should be 
very hot, and well greased in every 
part. Always have a little brush with 
which to grease the waffle irons. Pour 
the batter into a pitcher, so that you 
may more easily fill the irons. Open 
the irons, pour in the batter and fill 



166 



THE picayune: grex>le cook book 



the iron quickly. Then close at once 
and set on a very quick fire. As 
soon as the edges are set, turn the 
iron and bake on the other side. Two 
minutes should be all the time re- 
quired to bake a waffle nicely. Al- 
ways select the simple waffle baker 
with four compartments In preference 
to the more elaborate designs as bet- 
ter results will be achieved. When 
the waffles are baked, remove them 
carefully, place on a hot dish, piling 
them in double rows and butter them 
generously. Rice waffles are gener- 
ally served with ground cinnamon and 
sugar mixed and sprinkled over. But 
this is a matter of taste. They are 
very delicious when served with but- 
ter and Louisiana Syrup or Molasses. 



Bice Griddle Cakes. 

Oateauw de Riz 

1 Pint of Milk. IH Cups of Cold Boiled 

Rice. 

1% Cups of Flour. 

2 Eggs. 

2 Heaping Teaspoonfuls of Baking 

Powder. 
1 Large Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Scald the milk and set it to cool. 
Press the rice through a sieve, and 
then add the well-beaten yolks of two 
eggs, then the salt, yeast powder and 
flour, blended, and beat well. Then 
add the milk, blending thoroughly, 
and finally the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Mix thorough- 
ly and bake on a hot griddle. 



Rioe Bread. 

Pain de Riz, 

1 Cup of Cold Boiled Rice. 

2 Cups of White Indian Meal. 

3 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 

2 Heaping Teaspoonfuls of Baking 

Powder. 

1% Pints Milk. 

1 Teaspoonful Salt. 

Beat the yolks and whites of the 
eggs together until very light, and 
then pour in the milk, mixing grad- 
ually. Add the well prepared meal, 
in which you have already mixed the 
salt and baking powder. Beat well. 
Then add the melted butter and the 
rice, which must have been mashed 
through a sieve. Mix all thoroughly 
and beat till very light. Then grease 
the bottom of a shallow pan and turn 
the mixture in and bake half an hour 
in a hot oven. Serve hot, buttering 
the slices freely. This is a delicious 



breakfast bread, and, as In any of the 
above recipes, cold left over rice may 
be utilized in its making. 

Rice Croquettes Witii Farsley 

Croquettes de Riz au PersU 

1 Cup of Rice. 1 Quart of Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

The Yolks of 4 Eggs. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wash the rice well, and put it on 
to boil in a farina boiler with the 
milk, or use cold boiled rice, and set 
it to boil with the milk, after pressing 
through a sieve. If the rice has not 
been cooked, let it boil about an hour. 
If it has already been cooked, twenty 
minutes will suffice. When very thick 
take from the fire and beat until very 
smooth, mashing up each grain. Then 
add the well beaten yolks of the eggs, 
and cook for about eight or ten min- 
utes longer. Add the parsley and 
seasoning, using only white pepper. 
Take It from the fire, mix well, turn 
it out on a plate, and let it cool. 
Afterwards, form it into pretty cylin- 
ders of about three inches in length 
and one and a half in thickness. Roll 
these in a beaten ees, to bind, and 
then in bread crumbs, and fry in 
boiling lard. Drain and serve with 
a daube, or any other meat cooked 
with gravy. 

Rice Croquettes With Fruit. 

Croquettes de Riz auw Fruits. 

H Cup of Rice. 1 Pint of Milk, 

2 Large Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 

% Cup of Currants. % Cup of Raisins. 

% Cup of Citron. 

H Teaspoonful of Vanilla Essence. 

The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 

Put the milk into a farina boiler, 
and add the rice which you will have 
washed well. Boil until very thick. 
Seed the raisins and prepare the other 
fruits. Beat the eggs well and add 
them to the rice, and then stir In the 
sugar. Beat until very smooth. Then 
take from the fire, and add the es- 
sence of vanilla, the raisins and cur- 
rants, and the citron. Turn out all 
Into a dish to cool. Then form into 
pretty pyramids, and dip first in a 
well beaten egg, and then in bread 
crumbs. Fry in boiling lard. Drain 
well. When about to serve, put a 
small piece of Currant Jelly on the 
top of each croquette. Then dust the 
whole with powdered sugar, and serve 
with Sauce & la Vanille. (Vanilla 
Sauce, see recipe.) 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



167 



Rice Flour Croquettes. 

Croquette» de Farine de Riz 

1 Quart Milk. % Split Vanilla Stick. 
6 Ounces of Ground Rice. % Pound of 

Sugar. 

2 Ounces Butter. Yolks of 8 Egrgrs. 

1 Ounce of Pineapple. 2 Ounces of 

Apricots. 

3 Ounces of Cherries. 

1 Ounce of Orangre Peel. A Cream 

Sauce. 

Boil a quart of milk, and add to it 
while boiling the split vanilla stick. 
Take out the vanilla afterwards; then 
cut all the fruit and orange peel Into 
small dice, throwing away the seeds. 
Drop the ground rice like a shower of 
rain into the boiling milk, stirring it 
continuously with a whisk of the 
hand. When it begins to soften, set 
it back, and let it cook for fifteen 
minutes longer. Then mix in the cut 
fruits, and add the butter, which you 
will have melted. Add the eggs, which 
have been beaten very light in the 
sugar. Mix thoroughly, and add the 
orange peel, cut into quarter dice. 
When the mixture is very light, set 
it to cool, by spreading it out on a 
baking sheet, covered with white pa- 
per. When cold, divide It into small 
balls, roll these in powdered Maca- 
roons (see recipe Macaroons), dip in 
beaten egg, and then roll in white 
bread crumbs. Fry in boiling lard. 
Drain in a heated colander or on a 
piece of brown paper. Then place the 
croquettes nicely on a dish, sprinkle 
with vanilla sugar, and serve each 
separately, with a Cream Sauce. (See 
recipe.) This is a delicious dish. 



Rice Custard. 

Riz au Lait 

1 Cup Rice. % Cup Sugar. V& Grated 

Nutmeg. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

The Peel of a Quarter of an Orange. Cut 

In Dice. 

Boil the rice very soft, and then add 
the milk, and let It come to a good 
boil. Add the orange peel, cut in 
quarter dice. Beat the eggs and sugar 
together until very light, and add to 
the boiling custard. Cook for one 
minute longer. Then take from the 
fire, and add the vanilla and one- 
quarter of the grated nutmeg. Place 
all in a dish to cool. Sprinkle the top 
with grated nutmeg, and serve cold. 
This is a famous Creole dish. 

If you wish to have a baked custard, 
place the custard in a pan or in cups. 



Set in the oven to brown, and serve 
hot, with a Cream Sauce. The above 
amount will fill about eight cups. 

Rice Dumplings. 

£chaud^8 de Riz 

It was the old Creole negro oooks 
who first evolved that famous Creole 
dessert, "fichaud^s de Riz," which Is 
made as follows: 

^ Cup of Flour. 3 Cups of Ground 

Rice. 

8 Apples, Tart and Not Overripe. 

2 Quarts of Milk. Sugar and Cinnamon. 

% of the Peel of an Orange. 

H of a Grated Nutmeg. 

Pare the applies and take out the 
cores, leaving the apples whole. Mix 
the ground cinnamon and sugar, and 
fill the cores heaping over with this 
mixture. In the meantime boll the 
rice In milk till It comes to the con- 
sistency of flour, having added the 
grated peel of an orange and a half 
teaspoonful of grated nutmeg and a 
half cup of flour. Take off the fire, 
and let it cool. Then cover each ap- 
ple all over with a very thick coating 
of the rice, and tie each dumpling 
In a cloth very tightly, and put them 
in a pot of cold water. Bring the 
water to a quick boll, and boll the 
apples for three-quarters of an hour. 
When done, untie the cloth and place 
the dumplings carefully on a large 
dish. Sprinkle each with a little 
grated nutmeg, put on top of each a 
dot of butter, set in the oven for five 
or ten minutes to brown, and serve 
with a Hard or Cream Sauce. They 
are mo3t delicious with a Hard Sauce. 
They may be served without heating 
in the oven, immediately after they 
have been taken from the water, or 
they may be servd cold. 

Again, in large families, the apples 
may be cut In halves or quarters, and 
boiled in the same manner, covering 
with the coating of rice, as in the fol- 
lowing recipe: 



Apples and Rice. 

Riz d la CondS 

Cut three large, fine apples in halves 
and pare and core them. Then bake 
in the oven until quite done and 
juicy. Make a Rice Pudding (see 
recipe), using only one cup of rice 
and other ingredients in proportion. 
When the apples are cold, set in a 
dish, placing each apple over a small 



168 



THE PICAYUNE CREX>IiE COOK BOOK 



bed of Rice Pudding:. Place the same 
quantity on top of the apple, so that 
it will be Inclosed by the rice as a 
wall. Serve them in saucers, and pour 
over each riced apple two tablespoon- 
fuls of Cream sauce. (See Sauces for 
Puddings, etc.) 



Rloe Meringue. 

Meringue de Ris 

1 Cup Rice. 6 Creole Eg-gs. 2 Cups 

Sugar. 

1 Pint Milk. 

2 Tablespoonfuls Butter. 

The Grated Rind of a Lemon. 

Wash the rice thoroughly, and cook 
it in a quart of boiling water. When 
very soft, drain the rice of all water 
by pressing through a colander, and 
add it to the milk. Beat the yolks of 
the eggs and the sugar together till 
very light and add the butter. Then 
add the Juice and the grated rind of 
a lemon, and mix thoroughly. Place 
the whole mixture in a baking dish, 
and bake for half an hour in a quick 
oven. Beat the whites to a stiff 
froth, and add gradually six table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar (white), 
beating it in well all the time. Con- 
tinue beating till the whites are stiff 
enough to stand alone. Pour this 
over the top of the rice, and set it 
back in the oven a few minutes to 
brown. It may be served either hot 
or cold. 

Rice Souffle. 

8ouffl4 de Riz 

% Pound of Rice Flour. % Pound of 

Sugar. 
H Pint Cream.» 
6 Fresh Creole Eggs. 
1 Teaspoonful Vanilla. % Teaspoonful 

Salt. 
The Grated Peel of Half an Orange. 

Boil the rice well, according to re- 
cipe, and when very soft add the half 
t>int of cream, and let it come to a 
boil. Beat the butter and sugar and 
the yolks of the eggs together until 
very light. Then add the rice, which 
has been boiled in the milk. Set on 
the fire, put in the grated peel of 
half an orange, and stir continually 
till it thickens. Add the salt. Stir well. 
Theh take from the fire, and add the 
vanilla. Have the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff thick froth. Pour 
this over the rice. Set in the oven 
a few minutes to brown, and serve 
immediately while very hot, or it 
will fall. 



Snowlians. 

lete d la H^e 

1 Cup Rice. 1 Pint Milk. U Cup "Wliite 

Sugar. 

The Whites of Six Effgrs. 

A Cream Sauce. 

Boil the rice with the milk., and 
add the whites of three eggs, well 
beaten with the sugar. Stir well, and 
flavor with the Juice of one lemon. 
The mixture should be white as snow. 
Take from the fire as it thickens ^«reU« 
and set in a dish to cool. Form the 
rice into small balls of about two 
and a half inches square (little **bou- 
lettes," as the Creoles call tbem). 
Have the rest of the eggrs beaten to 
a stiff froth, with two tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugrar. Cover the tops 
of the balls with the mixture and 
place in the stove to heat. Let the 
balls remain about four minutes, 
without browning. Take out, and 
serve with a Cream Sauce (see re- 
cipe Sauces for Puddings), or just 
as they are. 

Rioe Cream Padding 

Pouding de Riz d la Cr^me 

1 Cup of Boiled Hice. 

% Cup of Sugar. 
1 Ounce of Pineapple. 2 Ounces of 

Raisins. 

2 Ounces of Currants. 

1 Ounce of Grated Orange Peel. 

1 Quart of Milk. The Tolks of 6 Kggs. 

^ of a Grated Nutmeg. 

Boil the rice well, and then drain 
through a colander and set to boil 
with the milk. When it has cooked 
for twenty minutes, add all the fruits, 
being careful to have the pineapple 
cut into dice, all the raisins seeded. 
and the currants picked, washed and 
dried. Then add the orange peel and 
grated nutmeg, and finally the eggs, 
which have been well beaten in the 
sugar till very light. Let all simmer 
for just one minute. Then take off 
the stove, place in a baking pan, and 
.set to brown nicely in a quick oven 
for about twenty-five minutes. When 
well browned, have ready a meringue, 
which you will have made by beating 
the whites of two eggs to a froth (re- 
served from the eggs as above), and 
add to this two tablespoonfuls of 
powdered white sugar. Spread all 
this over the pudding. Let it brown 
slightly in a hot oven, or the meringue 
will fall. Serve either hot or very 
cold. The pudding may be made 
without the addition of the pineapple. 



TH£ PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



169 



Froien Rioe Cuslajrd 

Cr^mc de Riz Olac^e 

1 Cupful of Rice. 1 Quart of Milk. 

A Pint of Cream. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 6 Oransrea. 

Prepare Just as above, in the boil- 
insr* but omit the fruits and use only 
the grated rind of an orangre in mak- 
ing the pudding. When cold, add the 
juice of an orange and the cream, 
beaten or whipped to a froth. Four 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice may be 
.substituted for the orange Juice, if the 
taste be preferred. Then freeze, ex- 
actly as you would ice cream, and 
serve with an Orange Sauce, prepared 
as follows: 

Boil together for ten minutes one 
cupful of water, half a cup of sugar, 
and the grated yellow rind or zest 
of two oranges. Add to this the 
strained Juice of four oranges. Cool 
and set to freeze. Boil three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar with three of water 
for two minutes. Beat this into the 
white of one egg, which has already 
been brought to a stiff froth. Stir 
this meringue Into the frozen mixture, 
and the sauce will be ready to serve 
with the pudding or custard. 



Rice With Compote of Oranges. 

Rig d la Compote d'Oranget 

%, Cup of Rice. 1 V6 Pints Milk. 1 

Quart Cream. 

IH Cups Sugar. 

Yolks of 8 Eggs. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Vanilla. 

The Orated Peel of an Orange. 

12 Sweet Louisiana Oranges. 1 Pound 

Sugar. 

1 Gill Water. 

^ of a Grated Nutmeg. 

Wash the rice clean, and boil ac- 
cording to recipe in about a pint and 
a quarter of water. In half an hour 
take it off the fire, drain, and press 
through a sieve. Then add it to the 
milk, and let it boil slowly a half hour 
longer without burning. Whip the 
cream to a stiff froth, add all the 
drain to the rice in milk, and set the 
whipped cream to cool until it is 
needed. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
and the sugar until they are very 
light. Add them to the boiling rice, 
stirring constantly and well, and let 
It cook for two minutes, adding in 
the meantime the grated peel of the 
orange. Take the mixture from the 
fire. Then add the tablespoonful of 
vanilla, and the grated nutmeg. Mix 



well and set out to cool. Remove the 
dasher from the ice cream freezer, 
and when the mixture has become 
very cool, turn it into the freezer and 
let it set packed in rock salt and ice 
for three hours. 

In the meantime wash a dozen sweet 
Louisiana oranges, then peel and cut 
them crosswise into halves. Take out 
the cores with the sharp point of a 
pen-knife, and set the halves aside 
for use. Put a pound of sugar to 
boil with one gill of water, and after 
ten minutes add the Juice, of half 
a lemon. Put a few pieces at a time 
of the oranges into this boiling liquid, 
and lay them out side by side in 
a flat dish. Pour over them the 
syrup that remains from the boil- 
ing, and set the dish in the ice box 
to cool. When ready to serve, wipe 
thoroughly the outside of the can that 
contains the pudding, and all around 
the edges, so as to remove any traces 
of salt. Wet a towel in boiling water 
and stand the can upon it. Open the 
can. Put a round dish on top, .then 
turn quickly upside down, and slip 
off the can. If the pudding adheres, 
repeat the applications of the hot 
towel at the bottom and around the 
sides till the can slips off. Place the 
oranges on top and all around the 
pudding, and pour over them the 
syrup, which has become cool, but not 
frozen. Serve immediately. This is 
one of the most delicious, as well as 
one of the most typical of our Louisi- 
ana methods of serving rice as a 
dessert. 

Ix?ft-Over Rice. 

Enough has been said and written 
in these recipes to give an idea of the 
t)ossibilities of Louisiana rice under 
proper methods of culinary prepara- 
tion. It enters into many different 
combinations in cooking, and among 
poorer Creoles with large families it 
takes, in a great measure, the place 
of bread. A meal of boiled rice, with 
Grillades, or else with Red Beans 
or White Beans, is very popular 
among the Creoles, especially those 
of limited means, all of these being 
good, nourishing, as well as econom- 
ical, dishes, the rice not only saving 
the expenditure of money for bread, 
but making a most welcome and pa- 
latable substitute. The family that 
uses rice daily will note the economy 
that foHows in the purchase of bread. 



170 



THE PICAYUNE CREX>Ii£ GOOK BOOK 



Left-over rice may be utilized in 
almost any of the above dishes, but 
it is more generally used in the mak- 
ing' of rice waffles or rice cakes for 
breakfast. Calas, etc. It is also fried 
or made into rice fritters, as follows: 



Fried Rioc. 

Riz FrU 
Take the left-over rice from the day 
before, and cut it into slices of proper 
thickness, and fry to a nice brown, 
turning it carefully, to avoid break- 
ing the slices. This makes an excel- 
lent breakfast dish, with Grillades d. 
la Sauce. (See recipe.) 

Rice Fritters. 

BcigneU de Riz 
Take the left-over rice and mash 
very fine. If you have only a cup- 
ful, take three eggs, a half cup of 
flour, one teaspoonful of yeast pow- 
der, and sugar to taste, and beat all 
into a light, thick batter. Cook by 
dropping a spoonful at a time into 



boiling lard. This is a sweet en- 
tremet, as also an excellent break- 
fast dish. 

Parched Rice. 
Ria GrUl6 

Rice may be parched in the same 
manner as popcorn. It is a method 
of cooking rice that came to New Or- 
leans from the West Indies, and was 
brought into general use by the San 
Domingo refugees, who came to New 
Orleans in numbers after the great 
insurrection. When the culture of 
rice became general in the South- 
western parishes of our State, these 
old settlers began to have rice -parch- 
ing gatherings, which became very 
fashionable. The Creole children and 
the belles and beaux of eighty years 
ago enjoyed parching rice Just as 
much as Northern children, youths 
and maidens enjoy roasting chestnuts 
or parching corn. Rice is parched in 
the same manner as the Creoles parch 
popcorn. The parched grain of rice 
becomes a beautiful open ball, which 
is eaten with salt or sugar, and is 
very delicious. 



CHAPTER XXV 




Les Ciriale9 



Under the heading of Cereals are 
classed Wheat, Rye, Barley, Oats, 
Corn, Maize or Indian Corn, Buck- 
wheat and Rice. As rice is one of 
our great Louisiana staples, and the 
proper methods of preparing it are so 
little known, it has been separately 
treated in the chapter above. The 
other Cereals are in general use in 
every section of our country, and 
thus require less amplification. 

Wheat. 

Du Froment 

On account of its universal con- 
sumption and great nutritive quali- 
ties, Wheat Is considered the princi- 
pal cereal. In the form of bread, it 
has long been distinguished as the 
"Staff of Life." The structure of the 



grain, like that of other cereals, con- 
sists of a gritty, woody center cover- 
ing, which is indigestible, and which 
Is gotten rid of, after the grain has 
been ground, by "sifting." In the 
whole wheat grain is found a perfect 
food, for it contains all that is neces- 
sary to support life — starch, gluten, 
sugar, nitrogenous and carbonaceous 
matter, water, salts, potash, soda, 
lime, phosphoric acid, magnesia, etc. 
In what is called "whole meal," the 
bran and pollards derived from the 
outer covering are retained. From 
this wheat Is made "Brown Bread," 
but though this kind of bread con- 
tains far more nitrogenous matter 
than white bread, it is not in general 
use, on account of its indigestibility. 
It should never be eaten by persons 
with weak stomachs. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



171 



Wheat contains a gluten, which Is 
a gray, elastic, tough substance. This 
gluten is especially abundant in 
wheat grown in warm climates. From 
this gluten paste Macaroni and Ver- 
micelli are made. 

Cracked Wheat. 

Froment Crevi 

1 Cup of Cracked Wheat. 1 Quart of 
Water. |1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Under the name of "Cracked 

Wheat" there is sold in the markets 

whole wheat grains, which are 

cooked by boiling in a double boiler 

until the entire envelop of the grain 

bursts open. It will require four 

hours of good boiling, therefore, it 

is best to soak the grain over night 

in a quart of cold water. In the 

morning set the kettle containing the 

grain in another kettle of cold water. 

add the salt, and let it gradually heat 

and boil for at least an hour and a 

half. It should be thoroughly cooked. 

Serve with sugar and cream for 

breakfast. 

Farina. 

Farine 

% Cup of Farina. 

1 Quart of Water or Milk. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Add the salt to the milk or water, 
and then sift In slowly sufficient Fa- 
rina to make a thick gruel. Set in a 
double boiler, and let It cook for 
about a half hour, stirring frequently 
while it bolls. 

Farina Gruel. 

Oruau de Farine, 

1 Cup of Boiling Water. 

1 Cup of Fresh Milk. 

1 Large Tablespoonful of Farina. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of White Sugar. 

In preparing this splendid food for 
infants, take a cup of boiling water, 
one cup of milk, and a pinch of salt. 
Stir the Farina into the cup of boil- 
ing water, slightly salted, and let It 
cook in a double-boiler, stirring con- 
stantly, till it thickens. Then add 
the milk, stirring it gradually, and 
let it boil about fifteen minutes 
longer. Sweeten, and when it is cool 
give it to the child. Enough may be 
made to last all day. Warm, when it 
is needed, with a little boiling milk. 

Rye. 

Seiglc 
Rye meal, once such a common ar- 
ticle of food In New Orleans, is still 



extensively used by the German pop- 
ulation, both in making Rye Bread 
and In making Rye Mush. In re- 
gard to its nutritive quality, Rye ranks 
slightly lower than flour. 

Rye Mush. 

Bouttle de Seiffle 

% Cup of Rye Meal. . 
1 Quart of Boiling Water. 

Sift the meal Into the boiling water, 
and stir constantly while doing so. 
Add the salt, and continue stirring 
till the mixture begins to boll. .Then 
cover and let It cook slowly for at 
least an hour and a quarter. Serve 
hot for breakfast, with sugar and 
cream. 

Oats. 

Avoine 
From Oats, which are used so ex- 
tensively as food for beasts, is pro- 
duced Oatmeal, which heads the list 
of flesh-producing and strengthening 
grains, being far richer than flour In 
nitrogen and fat, and, therefore, more 
nutritious. With oatmeal porridge 
for breakfast, oatmeal cakes for din- 
ner, milk, potatoes and a few vege- 
tables, the hard-working laborer or 
brain worker need require little else 
for sustenance from year's end to 
year's end. 

OatmeaL 

Oruau d*Avoine 

1 Cup of Oatmeal. 

1 Quart of Boiling Water. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

It it best to soak the oatmeal over 
night, when the coarse Scotch Oats 
are used. Then cook for a half hour 
in the morning, boiling constantly, and 
salt to taste. If the oatmeal is not 
soaked, it will require at least an 
hour to cook. It burns very easily, 
and, therefore, it Is always best to 
use a double boiler. Serve hot with 
cream. 

Steamed Oatmeal. 

Oruau d'Avoine d la Vapeur 

1 Teacupful of Oatmeal. 

1 Quart of Boiling Water. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Add the oatmeal to the water, and 
then add the salt, and set the steam- 
ing vessel over a pot of cold water, 
and let it gradually heat, and then 
steam for an hour and a half. Keep 
closely covered. When done, serve 
with cream. 



172 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIjE COOK BOOK 



Oat Flakes. 

Flocont d*Avoine 

1 Teacupful of Oat Flakes. 

1 Quart of Bollingr Water. 

y^ Teaspoonful of Salt. 

This delicious and delicate oatmeal 
dish is prepared by putting a quart 
of water into a porcelain-lined 
saucepan, and letting it come to a 
boil. Add the salt, and when it is 
boiling stir in gradually the oat flakes. 
Keep stirring to prevent burning. Let 
the mixture boil for about flfteen or 
twenty minutes, and serve with sugar 
and cream, or simply cream or milk. 

Ckirn. 

Du Mais 

Under this heading are included 
Corn proper and our own Indian 
Corn, or Maize. From these come 
such staple dishes as "Grits," "Big 
Hominy." "Little Hominy," "Lye 
Hominy" or "Samp." 

Corn contains far greater force- 
producing and fattening matter than 
Wheat. Scientists declare that corn- 
meal contains six times as much oil 
as wheat. Corn Bread is, therefore, 
an excellent winter diet; as are also 
the fine "Grits" and "Big and Small 
Hominy." "Samp" or "Lye Hominy" 
is used throughout the summer, as 
it is less heating. Preparations of 
Corn are among the cheapest, if not 
the very cheapest articles of food, 
and considering their high nutritive 
value, are especially recommended to 
the families of the poor. But, wheth- 
er rich or poor, there are few Cre- 
ole families in New Orleans who sit 
to breakfast without a good dish of 
Grits or Hominy. 

Grits. 

Du Oru 

Under the heading of Corn might 
properly be classed the white corn 
grits, without which no breakfast in 
Louisiana is considered complete. 
Grits is not only used for breakfast, 
but may appear on the table several 
times a day, the left-over grits from 
breakfast being utilized either in 
dainty cakes or entremets, or else 
warmed over and served with gravies. 
Grits is the ground dried corn. We 
have yellow grits, or grits from which 
the outer yellow covering of the corn 
has not been removed, and white 



grits, the latter considered the dain- 
tier preparation. From these comes 
the "Small Hominy," or corn ground 
exceedingly fine. Grits is always 
boiled. Left-over grits may be fried or 
warmed up again, or beaten with 
eggs and- milk and baked. This is a 
most delicious dish. 

Boiled Grits. 

Du Oru BouUli 

2 Cups of Grits. 
2 Quarts of Water. 2 Teaspoonfuls of 

Salt. 

Wash the grits in fresh cold water, 
and throw off the refuse. Wash 
again and drain. Into two quarts of 
cold water put the grits. Add the 
salt, arid stir frequently while this 
is coming to the boiling point. Then 
set it on a low fire and let it cook 
slowly for about an hour. It must 
be of the consistency of a very thick 
starch, or drier, if preferred. For 
Invalids it may be cooked like a corn- 
meal mush. Serve hot, with any 
meat, with gravy, or eat with milk, 
like oatmeal, as a preliminary to 
breakfast, or, again, simply eat with 
butter. In any manner in which it is 
served it is certain to be palatable. 
If half milk, instead of water, is add- 
ed in cooking, the dish is all the more 
delicious. 

Baked Grits. 

Du Oru aux Oeufs 

1 Cup of Grits. 

% Quart of Water. % Quart of Milk. 

2 hlgga. Salt to Taste. 

Boil the grits in the water and milk, 
mixed. Season, and when quite dry. 
take off the stove and let it cool a 
little. Beat the whites and yolks 
separately, and when the grits is cool 
beat in the yolks, and blend thor- 
oughly. Then add the whites, and 
beat till very light. Add a gill of 
cream. Set in an oven and bake to 
a beautiful brown, and serve hot. This 
Is an ideal Creole breakfast dish. 
Cold grits may be thus utilized. 

Hominy. 

SaccamiU 

Hominy is called by the Creoles 
the older sister of Grits. It was the 
Indians around Louisiana who first 
taught the use of hominy. They used 
to take all the dried Indian corn and 
thrash it till all the yellow, hardened 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



173 



outer germ or hull came off, the 
crrain being left white. ' Then they 
would bring the large whitened 
grains into the city to sell. The mak- 
ing of hominy became a great indus- 
try, and it was manufactured and sold 
all over the South. It was the chief 
food of the Southern negrroes. But it 
was also a standing dish on the most 
elegant tables. The little Creole chil- 
dren were reared on "La Saccamit^." 
The hominy was boiled in water In 
the same proportions as grits, but, 
of course, allowed to cook much 
longer, till the great white grains of 
corn were very soft, and yielded eas- 
ily to pressure. It is still cooked in 
the same way, and eaten with milk 
or with sugar, the latter being a fav- 
orite dish with the Creole children. It 
is also eaten with meat and gravy, 
or simply with salt and butter. Left- 
over hominy is utilized in making 
hominy griddle cakes. 

We have also "Lye Hominy," or 
Hominy soaked In Lye till the coarse 
outer germ comes off. This is the 
great summer dish of the city and 
parishes. The hominy is made in the 
parishes, and shipped to New Or- 
leans. It is also pounded and used 
for making "Lye Hominy Bread." 



Bofled Hominy. 

La Baccamit6 BouHlie 

1 Pint of Hominy. 
2 Quarts of Water. Salt to Taste. 

Hominy should always be soaked 
over night in cold water. Wash the 
hominy, and put it in two quarts of 
water to soak. In the morning turn 
both hominy and water into a sauce- 
pan, and let it boll slowly for three 
or four hours. Serve with sugar and 
cream. It may also be eaten with 
butter and salt and pepper. 

Hominy Croquettes. 

La BaccamiH en Croquettes 

These are made from the left-over 
hominy. They are prepared in exact- 
ly the same manner as rice croquettes. 
( See recipe. ) Grits - may be made 
into croquettes in the same manner. 



Fried Grits or Hominy. 

Qru Frit ou fiaccamiti Frite 

To fry grrits or hominy, after the 
grain is boiled, let it cool. Then 



.season with salt and pepper, and 
spread on a biscuit board. When 
perfectly cold cut into slices and dust 
each slice with a little flour. Brush 
again with a beaten egg, and' fry in 
lard till a light broiyn. 

Lye Hominy or Samp. 

Saccatniti d la Lcativc 

This is an old-fa.shioned Creole 
way of preparing hulled corn. It is 
and has been much in vogue for many 
generations throughout rural Louis- 
iana, The corn is allowed to get very 
ripe, put to dry, and then hulled. It 
is then allowed to lie for many days, 
spread out upon a cloth, till thorough- 
ly dried. An Immense pot is then 
filled with water, and a bag contain- 
ing at least a quart or more of hard- 
wood ashes is put into it. A good 
peck of the old, ripe, dry, hulled corn 
is thrown in, and it is allowed to soak 
for at least twenty-four hours. The 
corn is then put to boil in these ashes 
till the husks or outer germs come 
off easily. Then the corn is thrown 
into the cqld water and divested of 
the hulls by thorough rubbing with 
the hands. It is then washed in four 
or five waters, till every taste of pot- 
ash disappears. 

Another way the Creoles of rural 
Louisiana have of preparing Lye 
Hominy is to dilute the strong lye in 
water, and then boil the corn in this 
till the hull comes oflC. After thor- 
ough washing, the corn prepared in 
either fashion is sent in large quan- 
tities to New Orleans. In cooking 
Lye Hominy, it is either boiled in 
water until the kernels are soft, as 
in other recipes for Hominy, making 
a delicious dish when served with 
milk, or cream, or it is ground or 
pounded into a flour, from which is 
made that famous Louisiana break- 
fast offering, "Lye Hominy Bread." 
(See recipe under chapter on Breads.) 
This flour also finds a ready sale 
among the Creoles during summer. 

I 

I 

"jC^mmcal Mush. 

Bouillie de Farine de MaU 

1% Cups of Cornmeal. 

2 Quarts of Boiling Water. 

1^ Teaspoonfuls of Salt. 

Set the water to boil in a porce- 
lain-lined or agate stewpot; add the 
salt, and when the light scum comes 



174 



TH£ PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



on top skim it off. Then add the 
fresh, sweet, white cornmeal, putting 
a handful at a time into the water, 
and stirring: with a jspoon or a pud- 
ding stick, round and round, as the 
meal falls lightly from the hand. 
When one handful is exhausted, re- 
fill it, and continue stirring and let- 
ting the meal fall by degrees, until 
the pudding stick will stand in it. 
This is the test. Continue stirring, 
and when sufficiently cooked, which 
will be in a half hour, as the bubbles 
begin to puff up, turn into a bowl, 
bring to the table (either hot or cold) 
and eat with milk, butter, sugar, 
syrup or with meat and gravy. 

In preparing this as a gruel for in- 
fants, take one-half cup of cornmeal, 
a quart of water, stirring often. When 
done, soften with boiled new milk, 
sweeten to taste and feed the infant 
with a spoon. 

Graham Meal Mush is prepared in 
the same manner as either of the 
above recipes. 

Milk Porridge. 

BouUHe de Lait 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Indian Meal. 

1 Spoon of White Flour. 

3 Cups of Milk. 

1% Cups of Boiling Water. 

A Pinch of Salt. 

Bring the flour to a paste with a 
little cold water, and also scald the 
meal with a little hot water. Have 
the wa'ter boiling in the proportion 
given above; add the meal, and then 
add the flour, stirring constantly. 
Then let it boll for about twenty min- 
utes, and add the pinch of salt and 
the milk, stirring almost constantly; 
then let all cook for ten minutes 
more, stirring often. Serve while 



hot, with sugar and milk. This is 
excellent for little children and in- 
valids. 

Barley. 

Orgc 
Barley is extensively used by the 
Creoles, especially in summer, for 
making soups. A good barley soup 
is considered not only a most nutri- 
tious dish, but a very cooling one, and 
especially suited to a summer diet, 
(See recipe for Barley Soup.) Barley 
water is, likewise, much used to cool 
the system, and also for delicate in- 
fants, with whom very often even 
sterilized milk does not agree and it 
is found absolutely necessary to sub- 
stitute some other article of diet. The 
Creole mothers flrst soak two table- 
spoonfuls of barley in a little cold 
water for about an hour, and then, 
without draining, pour this into the 
boiling water, which has been very 
slightly salted. This water is stirred 
very frequently and allowed to sim- 
mer for at least an hour. It is then 
strained and sweetened before it i^; 
used. Thus prepared, it is highly nu- 
tritious for invalids. Barley must 
always be picked over, washed thor- 
oughly several times and soaked in a 
little cold water I^efore it is cooked. 

Backwheat. 

Barraain 
Buckwheat is not by any means a 
nutritive food, being far inferior to 
wheat and corn. It is never eaten 
alone, but, in combination with flour, 
is used in making that delightful 
breakfast accompaniment, "Buck- 
wheat Cakes." (See recipe, under 
Chapter on Breads.) 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



175 



CHAPTER XXVI 



MACd^ONI 




Mttoaroni 



Macaroni is a general article of 
food in New Orleans among the rich 
and the poor. It is very cheap, and 
is a most excellent dish. We have in 
New Orleans large Macaroni factor- 
ies, where not only Macaroni is made 
by the Italians themselves, but the 
twin sisters of Macaroni, Spaghetti 
and Vermicelli, are also manufac- 
tured fresh daily. While there is no 
city in the United States in which 
Macaroni is cooked in real Italian 
style but New Orleans, which has 
long been a favored point of migra- 
tion for the sons of sunny Italy, the 
Creole cooks have modified and im- 
proved upon the Italian methods, so 
that Macaroni k la Creole Is just as 
famous a dish as Macaroni & I'ltal- 
ienne, and by many considered far 
superior. 

How to Botl Macaroni. 

Avofd breaking the macaroni as 
much as possible. Immerse it whole 
in a large saucepan of boiling water; 
add a tablespoonful of salt and one 
of butter. Let the macaroni cook 
from twenty to twenty-flve minutes; 
remove from the fire and drain in a 
colander. If not intended for imme- 
diate use, cover at once with cold 
water. When cool, drain and use as 
needed. 

Boiled Macaroni, Italian Style. 

Macaroni d Vltalienne 

% Pound of Macaroni. 

1 Pound of Grated Parmesan Cheese. 

1 Tablespoonful Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Break the md.caroni into convenient 
lengths, and set to boil in a kettle 
filled with boiling water and in which 
you have thrown a spoonful pf salt 
and black pepper. Be careful to keep 
the lengths of macaroni firm. When 
cooked till tender, take off and strain 
the water. Now put a tablespoonful 



of butter and one of flour on a very 
low fire, blending well. Have one 
pound of Parmesan cheese grated; 
add one-half of it to the flour and 
butter, and one pint of the water in 
which the macaroni was boiled; 
the mixture must not be allowed to 
brown; stir briskly. Place the mac- 
aroni by lengths into a dish, season 
well witfi salt and pepper, and warm 
a few minutes in the oven. Then 
take out the dish and sprinkle over 
the macaroni one-half of the cheese 
that still remains; pour the hot sauce 
over this, and sprinkle the rest of 
the cheese on top; serve hot. 

"J|oiled Spaghetti, Italian Style. 

Spaghetti d Vltalienne 

% Pound of Spaghetti. 

1 Pound of Grated Parmesan Cheese. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Spaghetti d. I'ltallenne is prepared 
in the same manner as in the above 
recipe. Spaghetti is a more delicate 
form of macaroni. 

The Italians in New Orleans also 
simply boll the macaroni or spa- 
ghetti as mentioned above, sprinkle it 
with grated cheese and salt and pep- 
per, and serve with a rich tomato 
sauce (see recipe), and grated cheese, 
the latter served in separate plates. 
This makes a very rich dish. 

Macaroni or Spaghetti thus cooked 
is served with daube and is a very 
palatable accompaniment. 

Macaroni With Tomato Sauce. 

Macaroni d la Sauce Tomatc 

^ Pound of Macaroni. 

1 Gill of Tomato Sauce. 

% Pound of Grated Parmesan Cheese. 

1 Onion. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

A Dash of Cayenne. 

Boil the macaroni in salted water 
for twenty minutes, adding a table- 



176 



THE PICAYUBTE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



spoonful of butter and an onion, with 
two cloves stuck in it. Then drain 
the macaroni of all water; place it 
in a saucepan with two grills of To- 
mato Sauce. Add a quarter of a 
pound of grated Parmesan cheese; 
season well with salt and pepper; 
add a dash of Cayenne, and let the 
mixture cook slowly for ten or fif- 
teen minutes, tossing frequently to 
prevent burning. Place the Macaroni 
on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, 
and serve with grated Parmesan 
cheese passed in a separate dish. 
Spaghetti may be prepared and 
'.served in the same manner. 



Macaroni, Creole Style. 

Macaroni d la Creole 

Vi Pound of Macaroni. 

^ Can of Tomatoes, or 6 Fresh Ones. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful Flour. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the macaroni according to the 
recipe given above. When done, 
drain through a colander without 
breaking the lengrths. Season well 
with salt and pepper. But one table- 
spoonful of butter in a frying pan 
and add one tablespoonful of flour; 
blend well and as it browns add the 
tomatoes, which have been chopped 
fine in their own juice. LfCt this 
stew after stirring well for about ten 
minutes, and when it begins to boil 
add the macaroni or spaghetti, mix- 
ing well without breaking the lengths. 
Let it boil up once, and then serve 
hot. The dish may be eaten with any 
meats. 



cloves of garlic and the various herbs, 
minced very fine together. Then add 
almost immediately, as these be- 
grin to brown, for bay leat bums 
quickly, a half can of tomatoes, or 
six fresh large tomatoes. To this, as 
it cooks, add a half pound of grated 
Parmesan cheese, and let all stew 
for about ten minutes; then add the 
macaroni or spaghetti, and let all 
simmer gently for about twenty min- 
utes longer. Serve hot, offering at 
the same time a small plate of grat- 
ed Parmesan cheese to each person. 

Macaroni, Neapolitan Style. 

Macaroni d la NapoHtaine 

% Pound of Macaroni. 

U Pint of Sauce Espagnole. 

\i Pint of Tomato Sauce. 

M Pound of Grated Parmesan Cheese. 

6 Mushrooms. 2 Truffles. 

1 Ounce of Smoked Beef Tongue. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

1 Carrot. 1 Herb Bouquet. 

2 Sprigs of Celery. 

Boil the macaroni, and cut into 
pieces of about two inches long, after 
draining thoroughly. Place it in a 
.saucepan with a half pint of Tomato 
Sauce and Sauce Espagnole (see re- 
cipe), and add the cheese. Add the 
herb bouquet, tied together; cut the 
truffles and mushrooms and carrot 
into dice-shaped pieces; mince the 
celery and add; then add the beef 
tongue cut into small dice-shaped 
pieces. Let all cook for about fifteen 
minutes, tossing frequently in the 
meantime. When ready to serve, re- 
move the herb bouquet and send to 
the table hot. 



Macaroni or Spaghetti, Milanaisc 

Style. 

Macaroni ou Spaghetti d la Milanaise 

Vi Pound of Macaroni. 
% Pound of Cold Boiled Ham. 

1 Pound of Grated Parmesan Cheese. 

1 Onion. 2 Cloves of Garlic. 
1 Can Tomatoes. 

2 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 
Salt. Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Boil the macaroni in water and 
salt as in the recipe given for Boil- 
ing Macaroni. When tender, drain 
well through a colander. In the 
meantime, while it is boiling, put a 
tablespoonful of butter in a sauce- 
pan, and as it melts add the grated 
onion. Let this brown, and then add 
the ham which you must have minced 
very fine. Let this brown; add the 



Macaroni an Gratin. 

Macaroni au Oratin 

\i Pound of Macaroni or Spaghetti. 

1 Pound of Parmesan Cheese (Grated). 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour/ 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the macaroni unbroken, not 
cooking it too much, but Just enough 
to make it soft; then lift out of the 
water without breaking It. This will 
require about a half hour of rapid 
boiling. Seasoxl well with salt and 
black pepper, put in a pint of milk a 
tablespoonful of butter, blended well 
with flour, and let it boil two minutes. 
Place a layer of the spaghetti or mac- 
aroni in the pan in which it is to be 
baked, seasoning again to taste, and 
mix in a layer of the grated cheese; 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



177 



sprinkle with pepper and salt; then put 
In alternating layers of the macaroni 
and the cheese, continuing until three- 
fourths of the cheese is used. Do not 
break the macaroni or spaghetti. Pour 
over this the boiling milk. Take the 
remaining quarter pound of cheese 
and sprinkle thickly on top, dot here 
and there with bits of butter, put it 
in a quick oven and let it bake to a 
nice brown. Serve in the dish in 
which it was baked. In cooking mac- 
aroni or spaghetti, cream or inilk 
may be used always instead of water, 
using a pint of either in the above 
proportions. If you have not the 
milk, a pint of the water in which 
the macaroni was boiled will answer 
equally well. This recipe is highly 
recommended as the nicest way of 
preparing macaroni. 

Tlmbale of Bfacaront 

Macaroni en Timhale 

^ Pound of Macaroni or Spaghetti. 

1 Head of Edam Cheese. 

Vi Pound of Grated Parmesan Cheese. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

When you have finished scooping 
out the cheese do not throw away the 
head, but keep it to make a Timbale 
Macaroni. Boil a little over one-quar- 
ter of a pound of macaroni, or sutfi 
cient to fill the head, according to 
the above directions (Boiled Macar- 
oni). When boiled, drain very thor- 
oughly and set in a dish. Take about 
half a pint of the liquor in which 
the macaroni was boiled, strain it 
and set it back on the stove; add the 
flour and butter blende<|t and three- 
quarters of the grated cheese, and let 
it boil five minutes. Then pour this 
sauce over the macaroni in the dish 
and mix well, seasoning with salt and 
pepper to taste. Fill the head with 
this mixture, and sprinkle on top the 
rest of the grated cheese. Set in the 
stove to bake, and, when nicely 
browned, serve hot from the shell* of 
the cheese. The macaroni may also 
be baked in molds but this is not to 
be compared to the Timbale when 
made in the empty cheese head. This 
is a genuine Timbale of Macaroni, and 
the only way to really make the dish. 



Macaroni or Spaghetti With Daube. 

Dauhe au Macaroni, ou au Spaghetti ' 

% Pound of Macaroni. 

A Veal or Beef Daube 

1 Pint of Hot Water or Broth. 

Prepare a daube. (See recipe, 
••Boeuf & la Mode ou Daube"). After 
it has cooked about an hour and a 
half, and is about two-thirds done, 
add the macaroni (using between a 
quarter and a half pound for six per- 
sons), cutting the macaroni into 
lengths of about five inches, to facili- 
tate serving. Let it boil for about 
three-quarters of an hour in the 
daube, and if you see that there is not 
suflicient gravy for it to cook well, 
add carefully a pint or more of hot 
water or hot broth, according as the 
macaroni seems to absorb it after 
it has been in the pot four or five min- 
utes. Cook until very tender, and on 
serving place the daube in the center 
of the dish and heap the macaroni 
around. 

Chicken and macaroni may be pre- 
pared in the same way. 

Spaghetti may also be cooked in 
either of these ways, and makes a 
more delicate dish. 



Macaroni Balls. 

Boulettes de Macaroni 

1 Cup of Cold Boiled Macaroni. 
1 Cup Boiling Milk. 1 Tablespoonful 

Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls Flour. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Grated Cheese. 

The Yolks of 4 Egga. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Put the butter into a saucepan, and 

as it melts add the flour; do not let 

It brown. Add the cup of boiling 

milk and stir well. When it begins 

to thicken add the grated cheese, and 

let it simmer for a few minutes 

longer; then take from the flre and 

add the beaten yolks of four eggs. 

Have the macaroni cut into tiny bits 

and work it well into this mixture. 

Then set it aside to cool. When cold, 

take a little flour, rub it on your 

hands, and form the macaroni into 

small balls about two inches in 

lengrth and one in thickness. Dip the 

balls into a well-beaten egg, and then 

roll them in grated cracker crumbs. 

Fry in boiling lard, and serve hot. 



178 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIjE COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER XXVII 




Du Fromage 



Cheese is one of the most nutritious 
of all food substances, being: not only 
substantial, but especially rich In ni- 
trogenous matter. Among scientists 
It ranks very high as an article of 
food. The Creoles hold that cheese 
is a good aid to digestion, and if It is 
simply the Gruy&re cheese or the 
plain "Fromage k rAmericaln," you 
will always see it passed around as a 
proper finish to a meal Just before 
the coffee is brought in. 

So much for the cheese in its nat- 
ural state. In cooking, the Creoles 
use some very delightful forms, chief 
among which is that old French 
preparation known as 

Cheese Ramekins. 

Ramcquins de Fromage 

6 Tablespoonfuls of Grated Cheese. 

1% Gills of Milk. 

The Yolks of 3 Eggs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Ounces of Bread 

H Tablespoonful of Prepared Mustard. 

The Whites of 3 Eggs. 

Cayenne and Salt to Taste. 

Put the milk on to boil, and add 
the bread, which you will have 
minced fine. Stir the milk and bread 
until very smooth, and then add the 
butter, stirring well, and finally the 
grated cheese. Stir this for five min- 
utes, letting it boil, then take it off 
the fire and add the beaten yolks of 
three eggs. Have the whites ready, 
beaten to a stiff froth, and stir them 
in very gently. Season to taste. 
Grease a baking dish with butter and 
pour the mixture into the dish, set 
in a quick oven, and let it bake for a 
quarter of an hour. Serve hot. 

Toasted Cheese. 

Fromage sur Canap6a 

% Pound of Cheese. 6 Slices of Bread. 
Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

Toast the bread nicely and butter 
it. Cut the cheese into very thin 
slices and hold to the fire, letting it 



toast nicely, first on one side aj[id 
then on the other. Lay this upon the 
buttered toast and serve hot. This is 
a very nice * delicacy for breakfast, or 
for an evening in winter when seated 
around the home fire. 

Cheese SoulH^ 

BouJBflS de Fromage 

% Pound of Grated Cheese. 

1 Gill of Fresh Cream or Milk. 

8 Eggs. 1 Teaspoonful of Flour. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Pinch of Grated Nutmeg. 
1 Pinch Cayenne. Salt to Taste. 

Grate the cheese very fine and then 
add to it the boiling milk: add grad- 
ually the pepper, Cayenne and salt. 
Then add the butter^and fiour, rubbed 
well together. When the cheese is 
well dissolved, take it off the fire, 
add the nutmeg, the beaten yolks of 
three eggs and the whites of two eggs 
beaten to a froth; stir the whole well. 
Place all in a shallow earthen dish, 
add a little butter that has been well 
melted and put it in the stove for a 
few minutes till it begins to harden 
well; then take out and spread on it 
the white of one egg, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Set in the stove one minute, 
let it brown slightly and serve im- 
mediately. 

Cheese Straws. 

Paillea de Fromage 

1 Cup of Grated Parmesan or Gruyftre 

Cheese. 
1 Cup Flour. 1 Tablespoonful Butter. 
, Yolk of an Egg. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

Blend the flour and cheese together 
and add at the same time the salt 
and cayenne; then moisten with a 
well-beaten egg and one tablespoon- 
ful of melted butter, and work all 
gently into a paste. Roll out on a 
biscuit board into thin strips of not 
more than an eighth of an inch in 
thickness, and cut into pieces four 
inches long and about one-eighth of 



THE PICAYUNE CBEOLE COOK BOOK 



179 



an inch wide. Place these on buttered 
sheets of paper and bake in a very 
hot oven until a light brown. It is 
very pretty to make little rings of 
some of the strips and pass the oth- 
ers through them in little bundles 
like gathered bound bits of straw. 
This is a dainty dish. 



Butter these well. Have the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
beat them into the mixture and fill 
the dishes about two-thirds full. 
Then bake in a moderate oven for 
about twenty-five minutes. Serve im- 
mediately or the mixture which has 
risen to the top of the dishes will fall. 



Cheese Toasts. 

Fromage Fondu sur Canapes. 

2 Cups of Orated Cheese (Very Rich). 

% Cup of Milk. The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

Toast the bread neatly in square 
slices aAd cut ott the crusts. Butter 
nicely while very hot and then plunge 
them into a bowl of boiling milk. 
Place them on a heated dish and 
stand in ^he oven to keep hot while 
you proceed to make the "Fondu." 
Have a porcelain-lined saucepan; and 
set a half cup of milk in it over a 
moderate fire; when it is boiling hot 
add the cheese which has been finely 
grated; stir unceasingly till the 
cheese melts, and then add the salt, 
Cayenne and the yolks of the eggs 
and pour over the toasted bread. 
Serve hot. In making this *'D^li- 
cat§sse,'* the cheese must be very 
rich or it will be tough and stringy, 
because poor cheese will not melt. 

Cheese Fondu. 

Fromage Fondu 

1 Cup of Grated Parmesan or Gruyfire 

Cheese. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Sifted Flour. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 3 Eggs. 

^ Cup of Fresh Milk or Cream. 

A Pinch of Grated Nutmeg. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, add 
the flour, blending together without 
allowing it to brown. Add immedi- 
ately the boiling milk, and let it boil 
for two minutes. Then remove from 
the fire and stir in the yolks of 
three eggs, well beaten; then salt, 
pepper, nutmeg and the grated 
cheese. Mix all thoroughly. Have 
ready a small pudding dish, or, bet- 
ter still, several small souffle dishes. 



Cheese Biscuits. 

, Biscuits dc Fromage 

% Pound of Butter. % Pound of Flour. 

5 Ounces of Grated Swiss Cheese. 

H Tablespoonful of Mustard. 

Yolks of 2 Eggs. A Dash of Cayenne. 

Beat the butter to a cream; add 
tho yolks of the eggs, well beaten, and 
mix well. Then add gradually the 
grated cheese, mustard and Cayenne. 
Add the flour gradually, beating in 
thoroughly, and make a stiff dough. 
Roll it out and . cut into square or 
round biscuits. Bake in a rather slow 
oven for twenty minutes and serve. 

Crciam Cheese. 

Fromag'e d 7a Crdme 

Cream Cheese is always made from 
clabbered milk. The Creoles place 
this clabber in a long bag of muslin 
and put to drain, the bag being tied 
tightly and hung out over night in a 
cool place. When ready for use, the 
cheese is taken out and beaten till 
light. It is then placed in perforated 
molds, and when the time comes for 
serving, it is slipped from the molds, 
placed in a dish, and sweet cream is 
poured over it. It is eaten with sugar 
or salt, more generally sugar. 

Frozen cream cheese is a very de- 
licious summer dish with the Creoles. 
Some persons, after skimming the 
cream from the sour milk, stand the 
pan on the back of the stove, and 
scald the clabber with about three 
quarts of boiling water before putting 
in the bag to drain. Again some use 
only the perforated tins, instead of the 
muslin bag, but the best results are 
obtained by the former method. 
Cream cheese corresponds to the 
German "Schmier Kase." 



180 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER XXVIII 




ES 



Canapes 



No book on Creole cookery would 
be complete without reference to the 
delightful "Canapes" that are so ex- 
tensively used at breakfasts, lunch- 
eons, dinners or suppers. "Canap6*' 
is a French term, meaning literally a 
"couch" or "bed." In the culinary 
sense it is used as a bed on which to 
rest savory foods. Usually the Ca- 
nape is in the form of sliced bread, 
or toast, or crackers, covered with 
finely minced meats, pastes, etc., all 
handsomely decorated. It .is a term 
that is also applied to the ordinary 
"Sandwich." 



Anchovy Canap^. 

Canapia d'Anchoi% 

6 Slices of Dry Toast. 

1 Ounce of Anchovy Butter. 

2 Dozen Anchovies. 

First prepare the Anchovy Butter 
by adding to one .ounce of good regu- 
lar butter one teaspoonful of Anchovy 
Essence. Mix TVell and set on Ice till 
ready to use. 

Prepare six slices of bread, slicing 
them about one-half an inch thick 
and toasting to a golden brown. Trim 
the edges nicely and spread over each 
a little Ancho\'y Butter, and then 
cover each with four Anchovies cut 
in halves or pounded to a paste, ac- 
cording to taste. Place the toasts on 
a tin baking sheet In an oven for one 
minute, and then arrange neatly on a 
folded napkin on a dish and serve. 



Anchovy Canap6? With Hard-Boiled 

Eggs. 

Canapes d'Anchoia aux Oeufa Dura 

6 Slices of French Toast. 
1 Dozen Anchovies. 
2 Hard-Boiled Eggs. 
• 1 Ounce of Anchovy Butter 

Prepare six slices of French toast 
(see recipe), spread over each a little 
Anchovy Butter, and then spread over 



this buttered toast the Anchovies and 
hard-boiled eggs, which have been 
finely minced and mixed together. 
Place on a folded napkin In a dish 
and serve. 

Anchovy Canap^, Creole Style. 

Canap6a d'Anchoia A la Creole 

6 Slices of French Toast. 
1 Doezn Anchovies. 1 Ounce of Grated 

Ham. 

6 Gherkins. % a Truffle. 

1 Tablespoonful of Salad Oil. 

1 Teaspoonful of Cape- Vinegar. 

1 Ounce of Aspic Jelly. 

Prepare the French toasts (see 
recipe); trim the edges neatly. Chop 
the Anchovies very fine and mix with 
the ounce of grated boiled ham, and 
the truffle and gherkins, all minced 
very fine; moisten this with the salad 
oil and vinegar, which have been 
well mixed. Spread over the toast and 
garnish nicely with the aspic jelly, 
and place on a folded napkin and 
serve. The Anchovy preparation may 
also be used to fill very small patty 
cases; in this case, serve with a gar- 
nish of delicate pieces of toast and 
Aspic Jelly. 

Anchovy Canapes With Grayere 

Cheese. 

Canapfa d'Anchoia au Frontage de 
Oruydre 

6 Slices of French Toast. 

2 Ounces of Gruydre Cheese. 

16 Anchovies. 

6 Minced Gherkins. 1 Ounce of Anchovy 

Butter. 

Prepare some French toast (see 
recipe); pound the Anchovies to a 
paste with the Gruy^re cheese; line 
very shallow gem pans with a pie 
paste. (See recipe.) When baked, 
set to cool, and then fill in with the 
Anchovy preparation.. Next invert 
them on circles of nicely buttered 
Anchovy toast; grarnlsh with some 
minced gherkins and serve. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



181 



Cracdcer Anchovy Canap^. 

Canapes d'Anchois aux Biscuite 

1 Dozen Soda Crackers or Butter 

Crackers. 

2 Dozen Anchovies. 

1 Ounce of Anchovy Butter. 

Cut the Anchovies into halves. 
Butter one side of six crackers with 
the /Anchovy butter; lay on this four 
Anchovies sliced in half; cover each 
with a cracker; place on a folded 
napkin on a dish and serve. A very 
pretty conceit at luncheons is to tie 
the crackers across and around with 
narrow green ribbon, making a deli- 
cate knot in the center. 



Swiss Canap^ 

Canapes d la Suisee 

1 Ounce of Anchovy Butter. 

3 Hard-Boiled Kgga. 6 Stuffed Olives. 

3 Minced Green Gherkins. 

6 Slices of Toast. 

Prepare the French toast» and cut 
six delicate pieces into the shape of a 
triangle. Spread these with Anchovy 
butter; decorate along one side with 
the whites of the eggs, finely minced; 
along the second triangular edge 
with the minced yolks of the eggs 
and on the third with the minced 
green gherkins. Place a stuffed olive 
(see recipe) in the center, and ar- 
range nicely on a folded napkin on 
a dish and serve. 



Crab Canapes. 

Canapes de Crahea, ou Canapia Lorenzo 

6 SUces of Toast 
8 Hard-Shelled Crabs. 
1 Ounce of Butter. 
1 Small Onion. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 2 Table- 
spoonfuls of Flour. 
1 Gill of Broth or Water. 
2 Ounces of Grated Parmesan Cheese. 
2 Ounces of Grated Swiss Cheese. 

For this recipe first prepare the 
"Deviled Crabs" as follows: Boil the 
crabs. (See recipe Boiled Crabs.) 
Then pick out all the meat from the 
claws and bodies, and season nicely 
with salt and pepper. Put one ounce 
of butter into the saucepan, and add 
a finely minced onion; let this cook 
on a slow fire for two minutes, but 
by no means allow either butter or 
onion to brown. Add a tablespoon- 
ful of fiour, and stir constantly for a 
minute and a half, and then add a 
gill of broth or water, if the broth is 
not convenient. Stir well and let this 



mixture cook for five minutes, stirring 
constantly. Now add the crab meat 
and let it cook for fifteen minutes 
longer, stirring occasionally with a 
wooden spoon. Turn the mixture into 
a dish and let it cool for about a 
quarter of an hour. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter Into a saucepan, 
and add immediately a tablespoonful 
of fiour and blend well; let this cook 
for three minutes, stirring all the 
time, and then add two ounces of 
grated Parmesan and two ounces of 
grated Swiss cheese. Stir all well to- 
gether, blending thoroughly, and then 
turn into a vessel to cool. Cut six 
slices of bread the full length and 
width of the loaf, using preferably 
the ''Pan Bread," or delicate French 
loaf. Let each slice be about a 
quarter of an inch thick; neatly trim 
off all the crust edges and fry the 
.slices in a saucepan with a tablespoon- 
ful of butter till they have reached a 
golden brown. Then let them cool, 
draining off all butter. Divide the 
crab forcemeat and the cheese sep- 
arately into six equal parts; place a 
layer of the crab forcemeat one- 
quarter of an inch thick on each slice 
of toast. Take the six portions of 
cheese and roll each into a ball- 
shaped form about two inches in 
diameter, and arrange them on each 
portion of toast nicely and equally; 
place in a dish and brown in the 
oven for five minutes, and send the 
Canapes to the table hot in the same 
dish in which they were baked. 



Caviar Canapes. 

Canapes de Caviar 

6 Slices of French Toast. 

V^ of a Box of Russian Caviar. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Cream. 

Prepare the toast and cut in deli- 
cate circles. In the meantime put 
half the contents of a small box of 
Russian Caviars into a sautolre or 
saucepan; add two tablespoonfuls of 
cream and heat one and a half min- 
utes on the stove. Be careful to stir 
constantly. Pour this over the toast; 
place on a dish on a folded napkin 
and serve. Again, the circles of toast 
may be used as a foundation, the 
edges being spread with Anchor but- 
ter, with an onion ring at the base. 
Fill this decorated ring with the 
Caviars, place on a folded napkin on 
a dish and serve. 



182 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



Canap^ Hunters' Style. 

Canapes d la Chasseur 

6 Slices of Toast. 
1 Cup of Forcemeat of Game (White 

Meat). 
% Cup of Forcemeat of Game (Dark 

Meat). 

Prepare triangular-shaped pieces of 
toast, butter nicely and spread them 
with a game forcemeat (Woodcock, 
Snipe, Reed Birds, etc.). Decorate the 
edges with a forcemeat of game of 
different color, for effect, and serve. 
The wild duck, the meat of which is 
dark, may be utilized in this garnish. 
Left-over game also may be thus 
nicely enjoyed at luncheon or supper. 

Chicken Canap^. 

Canap6s de Volaille 

6 Slices of Toast. 

1 Cup of Chicken Forcemeat. Ounce of 

Butter. 1 Gill of Cream. 

The W^hites of 2 Hard-Bolled Eggs. 

2 Ounces of Parmesan Cheese. 

Prepare a Chicken Forcemeat (see 
recipe) and then prepare six slices of 
toast, cut square or in circles. Add 
an ounce of butter and one gill of 
cream to the chicken forcemeat; work 
well together, and then set to cool. 
Spread the toast lightly with butter, 
and spread over each slice a portion 
of the chicken forcemeat a quarter of 
an Inch thick; sprinkle with grated 
Parmesan cheese, set in the oven and 
bake for five minutes, and then dec- 
orate in the center with delicately cut 
pieces of the whites of hard-boiled 
eggs and serve. 

Canapes of Chicken Livers. 

Canapds de Foiea de Volaille 

1 Dozen Chicken Livers. 1 Onion. 

6 Slices of Toast. 

Dash of Anchovy Essence. 1 Ounce of 

Butter. 

Salt and Red Pepper to Taste. 

Pimentos and Red Chili to Garnish. 

Saut6 the Chicken Livers (see 

recipe) w^ith a finely minced onion 

till tender; then pound them to a 

paste, adding first a dash of Anchovy 

Essence, one tablespoonful of butter, 

salt and red pepper to taste. Cut 

the bread the full width of the loaf 

and trim the edges nicely; then fry 

in butter to a golden brown; take out 

and drain, place them in the dish in 

which they are to be served, and 

very neatly pile up the chicken 

liver preparation in pyramidal shape 

on top of the toast; smooth nicely all 

around with a knife and set In the 



oven for two or three minutes; then 
decorate the edges of the bread with 
slices of Pimentos and rings of Red 
Chilis and serve hot. 



Creole Canapes. 

Canapia d la Creole 

Cup of Grated or Minced Boiled Ham 

1 Onion. 1 Clove of GarUc 

1 Peeled Tomato. 1 Minced Green 

Pepper. 

6 Slices of Buttered Toast. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 2 Ounces of 

Parmesan Cheese. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Grate and mince only the lean por- 
tion of ham till you have a cupful. 
Put this in a saucepan with a table- 
spoonful of butter, and add the finely 
minced onion and garlic. Let this 
cook for three minutes, and then add 
the finely-cut tomato and minced 
green pepper. Season to taste with 
salt and pepper; add a dash of Cay- 
enne, let the mixture stew down un- 
til dry; then ^spread on strips of 
buttered toast and dredge with grated 
Parmesan cheese. Set it in the oven 
in the dish in which it is to be served 
and bake for five minutes and send 
to the table hot. 



Cheese Canap6s. 

Canapes de Frontage 

6 Slices of Swiss Cheese. 

6 Slices of Toast. 
1 Gill of Sauce Piquante. 

Take six slices of bread cut the 
whole width of the loaf, one-half inch 
in thickness, and hollow out one-half 
of the inner portion. Toast this 
nicely and spray the inner part with 
Piquante Sauce. (See recipe.) Have 
ready six slices of toasted or baked 
Swiss cheese; fit a slice into each cav- 
ity in the sliced toast; set in the oven 
for a few minutes and serve very hot. 

Codfish Canapes. 

Canapes de Cahillaud ou de Morue 

1 Cup of Boiled Salt Codfish 

1 Green Pepper. 3 Young Onions. 

1 Teaspoonful of Taragon Vinegar. 

Capers to Garnish. 

Boil the Codfish (see recipe), or 
utilize left-over fish; mince freely and 
mix thoroughly with the minced 
green peppers and young onions, and 
season with one teaspoonful of Tarra- 
gon vinegar. Spread on triangular- 
shaped pieces of toast placed on a 
dish on a folded napkin. Decorate 
nicely with capers and serve. 



TITE PICAYUNE CREOI/E COOK BOOK 



183 



Ham Canap^. 

Oanapia de Jamhon 

6 Slices of Lean Ham. 

6 Slices of Toast. 

1 Tablespoonful of French Mustard. 

1 Gill of Cold White Sauce. 

1 Boiled Onion. 

1 Cooked Garlic. 

2 Ounces of Grated Parmesan Cheese. 

Prepare the toast nicely, cutting 
the slices the full width of the bread, 
paring the edges nicely and toasting 
and buttering well. Lay on each piece 
of toast a thin slice of very lean ham, 
which has been lightly spread with 
French mustard. Spread lightly over 
this a cold White Sauce (see recipe 
White Sauce, Sauce Blanche), to 
which has been added while cooking 
a flnely-minced onion and clove of 
garlic, and a dash of Parmesan 
cheese. Dredge the top of the Ca- 
nape with Parmesan cheese, then 
sprinkle lightly with finely-grated 
bread crumbs. Set in the oven for 
five minutes, bake slightly and send 
to the table hot. 



Fish Canapes. 

Canapes de Poisaon 

1 Cup of Minced Left-Over Fish. 

1 Tablespoonful of French Mustard 

^DressinfiT* 

1 Gill of Sauce Piquante. 

2 Ounces of Parmesan Cheese. 

6 Slices of Toast. 

Utilize in this form of Canap6 any 
kind of whlte-fieshed Fish. Red Fish, 
Red Snapper. Sheepshead or Trout, 
etc. Prepare a forcemeat (see 
recipe) and season with the French 
Mustard and the Piquante Sauce. 
Spread a layer one-quarter of an inch 
thick over delicate strips of toast, 
dredge with grated Parmesan Cheese, 
set in the oven, and bake for five 
minutes and serve hot. 



Canapes of Potted Ham. 

Canap€a de Jamhon en Conserve 

I Box of Potted Ham. 

2 Ounces of Grated Boiled Ham. 

Thin Slices of Green Gherkins. 

6 Slices of Toast. 

Prepare delicate strips of Toast, 
spread with Potted Ham to a quarter 
of an inch In thickness, then sprinkle 
lightly with grated ham and decorate 
the edges, covering, if desired, with 
thinly-sliced Green Gherkins. The 
grated Boiled Ham may be omitted. 



Indian Canape. 

Canap6a d VIndienne 

. 1 Box of Potted Ham. 1 Ounce of 

Chutney. 

6 Slices of Toast. 

2 Ounces of Grated Parmesan Cheese. 

Cut six slices of bread into delicate 
circles, and fry in butter. Spread first 
with Potted Ham and then with 
Chutney. Sprinkle with grated Par- 
mesan Cheese. Set in the oven to 
brown for five minutes, and serve hot 



Oyster Canapes. 

Canapes d'Huitrea 

3 Dozen Oysters. 6 Slices of Toast. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Hollandaise Sauce. 

Parsley Sprigs. 

Blanch the oysters (see recipe) and 
then mince very fine. Mix with two 
tablespoonfuls of Hollandaise Sauce, 
and then spread over thin strips of 
buttered toast. Sprinkle lightly with 
Parsley, which has been grated so 
fine as to be almost a dust. Put a 
bit of butter on top of each Canap6, 
set In the oven for a few minutes, 
and send to the table hot. 



Olive Canap6s. 

Canapes d'Olives 

6 Stuffed Olives. 6 Slices of Buttered 

Toast. 

6 Anchovies. 

Capers and Minced Olive to Garnish. 

Prepare the toast and cut into deli- 
cate circles. Place on each circle a 
coiled Anchovy, putting a Stuffed 
Olive in the center of the coil. Deco- 
rate lightly with Olives and Capers 
minced very fine, and serve. Again, 
this Canapg may be prepared by fry- 
ing the circles of toast in butter, and 
spreading them with Anchovies 
pounded to a paste, then decorating 
the tops with minced Capers or Olives. 

Canap^ of Potted Tongue. 

Oanap6a de Langue de Boeuf en Conserve 

1 Box of Potted Tongue. 

Strips of Cooked Pork Tongue. 

6 Slices of Toast. 

Prepare the toast and cut into deli- 
cate circles. Spread with a layer of 
Potted Tongue one-quarter of an inch 
in thickness, and decorate with strips 
of cooked Red Tongue in lattice 
forms — that is, with strips laid one 
over the other, like a lattice work. 



184 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



Ix)aislaiia Caiiap6s. 

Canapes d la Louiaianne 

Two Breasts of Chicken. % of a Red 

Tong^ue. 

2 Ounces of Grated Lean Boiled Ham. 

A Dash of Curry Powder. 

2 Tablespoon fuls of Thick VeIout6e 

Sauce. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Grated Parmesan 

Cheese. 

Mince very fine the cooked breasts 
of the chicken, and cut the ham and 
tongue into small dice shapes; mix 
well with the chicken, and season 
with salt and a dash of Cayenne. Add 
a dash of Curry Pow^der, and then 
work the entire forcemeat well with 
two tablespoonfuls of thick Velout^e 
Sauce. (See recipe.) 3pread the 
mixture in layers one-quarter of an 
inch thick on slices of delicate toast 
in circles, dredge lightly with Par- 
mesan Cheese, set in the oven for five 
minutes and bake. Send to the table 
hot. 

Sardine Canapds. 
Canapts de Sardines 

6 Triangular Slices of Toast. 

1 Box of Sardines. 3 Hard-Boiled Kggs. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 6 Anchovies. 

A Dash of Red Pepper. 

Pound the sardines and the hard- 
boiled eggs to a paste, season with a 
dash of Red Pepper and the juice of 
a lemon and spread the buttered toast 
w^ith the mixture. Decorate in the 
center with a colled Anchovy. Or, 



simply pound the sardines to a paste, 
season with a dash of red pepper and 
the juice of a lemon, and spread on 
the slices of buttered toast. 



Spanish Canapfe 

Canap4a d VEspagnole 

6 Circular Pieces of Buttered Toast. 

1 Cup of Finely Minced White Fleab 

Fish. 
3 Sweet Pickles. 
1 Tablespoonful of Madras Chutney. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of HoUandaise Sauce. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Parmesan Cheese. 

Prepare circular pieces of buttered 
toast, make a mixture of a cup of any 
white- flesh fish, the Madras Chutney 
moistened with the HoUandaise Sauce 
and minced pickles, all pounded to- 
gether. Spread this over the toast 
and dredge with grated Parmesan 
Cheese. Set in the oven and bake for 
five minutes. 



CANNEIX)NS. 

Cannelon is a term applied to pe- 
culiar hollow lengths of puff paste or 
noodle paste, made by taking a piece 
of piping or tubing and cutting the 
paste into strips and twining around 
the tubing or piping. Bake or fry 
this preparation, remove the tubing 
and fill in the cannelons with a force- 
'meat of sausage, chicken croquettes 
mixture, t)reserves, Jellies or creams 



CHAPTER XXIX 



VEG 




LES 



Dea Ligumea 



Louisiana is peculiarly favored in 
having a great number of vegetables 
that can be grown on her soil. Almost 
all the sturdier varieties of vegetables 
and all the more delicate are grown 
here in abundance. The soil is so 
rich and fruitful that it has been caid 
that if you simply scatter the seed 
over the ground, without any effort at 
cultivation, it would still take root 
and a good crop would follow. Our 
climate also admits of two seasons of 
planting, so that we have both an 
early spring and an autumn crop; one 



extending into the summer and verg- 
ing upon the autumn, the other last- 
ing until late winter and ev.n into 
the early spring. Consequently, vege- 
tables are always to be found in abun- 
dance in our markets. 



ARTICHOKES. 

Dea Artichauta 

Artichokes are of two kinds: The 

French or Qreen Olobe Artichokea 

which have large scaly heads, like 

the cones of a pine, and the Jerusa- 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



185 



lem Artichokes. The latter are little 
esteemed by the fastidious, the pref- 
erence being always given to the 
former, which is a more delicate and 
tender variety, and a popular favorite. 
In Louisiana the Jerusalem Artichoke 
is cultivated principally for its tubers, 
which are very valuable for stock 
and hog feeding, owing to their fat- 
tening properties. But, if boiled or 
made into a pigr^e, these artichokes 
will be found not only a pleasant, but 
a most nutritious food. French Arti- 
chokes may be boiled or stuffed or 
fried. 

To. see If a French Artichoke is 
tender, lift up one of the scales that 
lie near the body of the vegetable; 
if it breaks without effort, the vege- 
table Is young; otherwise, the arti- 
choke Is old an^ will be tough and 
disagreeable to eat. 

French Artichokes Boiled. 

Artchauta Frangaia Bouillis 

5 Tender Fresh Artichokes. 1 Table- 

spoonful of Vinegar. 
Teaspoonful of Salt. Sauce, according 

to Taste. 

Strip off the coarsQ outer leaves, or, 
better still, cut the stalks close with 
a pair of scissors, and trim the sharp 
points from the leaves, removing 
about a quarter of an Inch from each. 
Cut the stalks about an lnch> from 
the bottom. Throw in cold water and 
wash well, adding a little vinegar to 
draw out any lurking insects. Have 
on the stove a pot of boiling water, 
and add a teaspoonful of salt. Throw 
in the artichokes and boll gently until 
it is possible to draw out a leaf easily, 
or until the outer leaves are tender. 
Take from the fire and drain upon 
a dish, placing them upside down, so 
that the water may all run off. Stand 
on their stalks In another dish when 
thoroughly drained, and serve hot 
with a Drawn Butter Sauce. Sauce £L 
la Maltre d'Hotel or a Sauce fi. la 
Hollandalse. 

The time for boiling an artichoke 
depends entirely on the age and size 
of the vegetable and requires usually 
from twenty-five minutes to an hour. 

Jemsalem Artichokes Boiled* 

TofHnamhoura Bouillit 

6 Jerusalem Artichokes. Sauce ft la 

Maltre d'Hotel or h la Crtme 

Wash the artichokes In cold water, 
and scrape them. Then throw them 



into cold water, and let them soak 
for an hour or so. Take out and 
drain. Put them in a saucepan; 
cover with boiling water, and let them 
boll slowly until tender; watch care- 
fully, as they will easily harden 
again. Serve with a Sauce d. la Mattre 
d'Hotel or a cream sauce. (See 
recipes.) 

Puree of Jcmsalem Artichokes. 

Purfe de Topinamhoura d la Ordme 

6 Artichokes. 1 Tablespoon ful of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wash and skin the artichokes, and 

boll until tender In a pint of water. 

Press them through a colander, and 

return to the fire In a saucepan in 

which you have placed a tablespoon- 

ful of butter, salt and pepper^ Stir 

well, and let them simmer for five 

minutes longer, and serve with a 

Cream Sauce. (See recipe.) 



Fried Artichokes. 

Artichauta Prita 
6 Artichokes. 2 Tablespoonf uls of Butter. 

Pluck off the coarse scales of the 
artichoke, and then throw the vege- 
table into cold water. Let It stand 
for an hour. Then drain. Cut the 
meat Into delicate slices, and fry In 
butter, just as you would potato 
chips. Serve with Filet of Beef, Veal 
Saut6, Smothered Chicken, etc. 

Artichokes Saut^ 

Artichauta SauHa 

6 Fine Tender Artichokes. 2 Table- 
spoonfuls of Butter. 
1 Tablespoonf ul of Vinegar. Any Sauce 

Desired. 

Take six fine artichokes and cut In- 
to ' quarters. Remove the choke en- 
tirely. Trim the leaves neatly and 
parboil In hot water for five minutes, 
being careful to add a teaspoonful of 
salt and a tablespoonful of vinegar to 
the water. After five minutes remove 
the artichokes and drain thoroughly. 
Place In a saucepan or sautlre, with 
two good tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Cover the pan tight and set to cook 
in a moderate oven for twenty-five 
minutes. Then- take the artichokes 
from the pan, place them in a deep 
dish and serve with a Sauce k la 
Maltre d'Hotel, a Drawn Butter Sauce, 
a Hollandalse Sauce, or any sauce de- 
sired. 



186 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



Artichokes k la Vinaigrette 

Artichauta d la Vinaiyrette 

6 Fine Tender Young Artichokes. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Vinegar. 1 Shallot. 

The Yolk of a Hard-Boiled Egg. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Prepare and boil the artichokes as 
In recipe for French Artichokes 
l3olled (see recipe). Serve with the 
following sauce: Take the yolk of a 
hard-boiled egg, dilute it with two 
teaspoonfuls of vinegar, blend well, 
season to taste with salt and pepper; 
chop the shallot very, very fine, add 
to the mixture, and then add .grad- 
ually three tablespoonfuls of Olive 
Oil. Mix all together well. Place the 
artichokes on a folded napkin on a 
platter, and send to the table with the 
sauce in a separate dish. 

Stuffed Artichokes. 

Artichauta Fards d la Barigoule 

3 Quarts of Boiled Artichokes. 

1 Onion, Minced. 2 Cloves of Garlic. 

% Square Inch of Ham. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. \i Can of 

Mushrooms. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Clean and boil the artichokes ac- 
cording to recipe. (Boiled Arti- 
chokes.) When the leaves begin to 
be tender and it is possible to pull 
out a leaf without difficulty, take the 
artichokes off the fire. Pull off a 
few of the coarse leaves, and then 
scoop out the artichoke without 
touching the "fond," or bottom meat, 
and without breaking the outer scales 
or leaves from the sides all around. 
The artichoke must be apparently 
whole and undisturbed. Then chop 
an onion, or, rather, mince it very 
fine, and mince two cloves of garlic 
and half a square inch of ham very, 
very fine. Take a quarter of a can 
of mushrooms and mince them fine. 
Mix all this together as a stuffing, and 
season well with salt, pepper and 
Cayenne. Put a tablespoonful of 
butter in a frying pan, and fry the 
dressing in It for about five or ten 
minutes. Now, stuff each artichoke in 
the scooped out center, beginning just 
above the heart or "fond". Pour 
over each a spoonful of broth or con- 
somme, or water; sprinkle lightly 
with bread crumbs; put a dot of but- 
ter on each, and set in the oven and 
bake five miliutes, till the crumbs are 
nicely browned. Serve immediately, 
using, if you wish, a Drawn Butter 
Sauce, but this is not necessary. (See 
Beurre a, la Maltre d'Hotel.) 



ASPARAGUS. 

i>e« Aapergea 

Asparagus is a vegetable of very 
delicate fiavor, and is much sought 
after and highly esteemed by epi- 
cures. It is a dainty accompanimenf 
to the most elegant feast. 

Boiled Asparagus. 

AspergtB en Branchet 

1 Can of Asparagus or 2 Bunches of 

Fresh Asparagus. 
% Pint of Hollandaise or 1 Gill of 
Drawn Butter Sauce. 

When it is possible to get fresh 
asparagus, carefully wash it in cold 
water, and cut off the tough white 
ends. Scrape the white part well, and 
throw it into cold water, to soak for 
half an hour. Then tie it in small 
bundles, and put it in a porcelain- 
lined saucepan. Pour boiling water 
over it and let it cook for twenty 
minutes. Add a teaspoonful of salt 
and cook ten minutes longer. Take 
the asparagus up nicely. Drain off 
all water. Lay on a folded napkin, 
and serve with a Drawn Butter Sauce. 
(See recipe.) Asparagus is generally 
bought in New Orleans in cans, be- 
ing very nicely prepared. It requires 
simply to be set on the stove and 
allowed to heat in the opened can, set 
in boiling water, as it is already 
cooked. Then, drain well and take it 
out of the can by turning it down- 
ward in a dish, letting the asparagus 
slide gently out. Place on a folded 
napkin, and serve with a Drawn But- 
ter Sauce. (See recipe.) 

Asparagus Vinaigrette Sauce 

Pointed d^Aaperagea d la Sauce Vinaigrette 

1 Can of Asparagus. % Pint of Vinai- 
grette Sauce. 

Prepare the asparagus as in the 
above recipe. Drain and set to cool. 
Serve with a half pint of Vinaigrette 
Sauce. (See recipe.) 

Asparagus Tips With Green Peas. 

Pointes d^Aspergea aux Petit Poi9 

1 Can of Asparagus or 2 Bunches of 

Fresh Asparagus. 
1 Can of Green Peas or 1 Pint of Fresh 

Grreen Peas 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 6 Table- 
spoonfuls of Cream Sauce. 
6 or 8 Buttered Crotltons. 

Cut the tender parts of the aspara- 
gus into pieces about one inch long, 
Heat the water. In which the aspara- 



THG PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



187 



gua was first put up, and add the can- 
ned green peas or the fresh peas 
that have already been boiled. Throw 
in the asparagus tips, and add water 
sufficient to cover. Boil rapidly for 
ten minutes; then drain very thor- 
ousrhly and return to the fire, having 
added one tablespoonful of butter, 
salt, pepper and six tablespoonfuls of 
Cream Sauce. (See recipe.) Stir 
carefully, so that you may not break 
the tips, and serve on neat CroQtons 
of buttered toast, or place in a dish 
and bring piping hot to the table as 
an entree. The coarse ends of the 
asparagus must not be thrown away, 
but may be utilized in a very nice 
Cream of Asparagus Soup. (See 
recipe. ) 

BEANS. 

Des HaricoU 

Beans, whether white or red, are 
among the most nutritious of food 
substances. In all the homes of New 
Orleans, and in the colleges and con- 
vents, several times a week there ap- 
pears on the table either the nicely 
cooked dish of Red Beans, usually 
eaten with rice, or the equally whole- 
some White Beans & la Cr^me, or 
Red or White Beans boiled with a 
piece of salt pork or ham. String 
Beans & la Sauce Maltre d'Hotel, or 
boiled with a piece of salt pork or 
ham, are also classed among the espe- 
cially nutritious beans. The Creoles 
believe that boys and girls who are 
raised on beans and rice and beef 
will be among the strongest and 
sturdiest of people. 

String Beans With Batter Sauce. 

HaricoU Verts d la Mattre d'Hdtel 

2 Quarts of Fresh, Tender String Beans. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. Salt and 

Pepper to Taste. 

Always select tender beans. Break 
the blossom end, and pull it back- 
ward, removing the string. Then be 
careful to pare the thin strip from the 
other end of the bean pod. It Is only 
in this way that you will be sure that 
every inch of string is removed. Split 
the larger beans down the pod, letting 
the younger and tender ones re- 
main whole. Wash them in clear, 
cold water, letting them stand about 
ten minutes. Then drain off the 
water, put the beans into a sauce- 
pan, cover well with boiling water. 



and let them cook for forty minutes 
or an hour, according to the tender- 
ness of the beans. Just before serv- 
ing drain off water, put a large table- 
spToonful of butter into the beans, 
mix well, salt and pepper to taste, 
and serve hot. • 

String Beans With Cream Sauce. 

Haricots Verts d la Cr6me 

2 Quarts of Fresh String Beans. 1 Ta- 
blespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour, vi Cup of 

Fresh Milk or Cream. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

String and wash the beans accord- 
ing to the first recipe. Place in a 
saucepan and cover with boiling 
water. Let them boll for an hour. 
Then drain off the water. Take a 
tablespoonful of butter and one of 
flour, and blend well. Add a half 
cup of fresh milk or cream, or one- 
half pint of the water in which the 
beans have been boiled. Season 
nicely witji salt and pepper. Stir in 
the beans; set them back on the 
stove for several minutes; let them 
simmer gently. Season again with 
salt and pepper to taste, and serve 
hot." The flour may be omitted, and, 
the milk diluted Instead with the yolks 
of two eggs, only there must be no 
boiling after the eggs are added. 

String Beans & la Vinaigrette. 

Haricots Verts d la Virixiiffrctte 

2 Quarts of String Beans. 
A Sauce H la Vinaigrette. 

Boil the string beans according to 
recipe. (See recipe String Beans with 
Butter Sauce.) When done, drain 
and serve with a Vinaigrette Sauce. 
Garnish the dish with sliced lemon 
dipped in parsley, which has been 
chopped very fine, and small gher- 
kins cut in fan shapes. 



String Beans, Brittany Style. 

Haricots Verts d la Bretonne 

2 Quarts of Fresh String Beans. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 1 Table- 
spoonful of Flour. 
1 Pint of Chicken Consomm4 or Water. 

1 Medium-Sized Onion. 

Chopped Parsley to Garnish. Salt and 

Pepper to Taste. 

Take a medium-sized onion, peel 
and cut into small dice-shaped pieces. 
Put the onion in a saucepan with the 
butter and let it saut4 to a golden 
brown. Add the flour gradually, 



188 



THE PIC AY I NK CRKOLE CXK>K BOOK 



blending well, and moisten with the 
consomm6 or water. I-et the mixture 
come to a boil and skim the broth; 
then add the string beans, which have 
already been boiled and drained. Let 
them simmer for ten minutes, adding 
in the meantime one flnely-minced 
clove of garlic. After ten minutes 
place the beans in a hot dish, sprin- 
kle with chopped parsley and serve 
immediately. 

String Beans k la Poulette. 

Haricots Vert a d la Poulette 

2 Quarts of String Beans. 
A Sauce ft la Poulette. 

Boil the beans as in the recipe for 
String Beans with Drawn Butter 
Sauce. Drain and serve with a Sauce 
& la Poulette poured over them. 

String Beans Boiled With Ham. 

Haricots Vvrts au Jambon 

2 Quarts of String Beans. 

1 Pound of Lean Ham or Salt Pork. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Proceed to prepare the beans In 
exactly the same manner as men- 
tioned above. Throw them into cold 
water, and let them stand for about 
ten minutes. Have ready a large 
saucepan of boiling water in which 
there has been boiled for almost one 
hour a pound of salt pork or ham. 
Drain the beans, put them into this, 
and let them boil forty minutes or an 
hour longer. Season with pepper only, 
and serve, placing the salt pork or 
ham in the center of the dish, and 
heaping the beans around. This is 
an excellent way of utilizing the ham 
bone which Is left over from the 
boiled ham. The Creoles like the 
flavoring of ham or salt pork in veg- 
etables. A blt^ of fine herbs, nicely 
minced, and one onion, minced fine, 
add greatly to the flavor of this dish. 

String Bean Panaches. 

Haricots Verts Panachis 

1 Pint of String Beans. 

1 Pint of Lima Beans. 2 Tablespoonfuls 

of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the string beans and cut them 
into pieces of about three-fourths of 
an inch In length; mix them with- an 
equal quantity of boiled Lima beans 
(see recipe); put them in a saucepan 
with two tablespoonfuls of butter; 
let them saut6 for Ave minutes, and 



toss continually while cooking. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper to taste. 
place on a hot dish, sprinkle with 
finely-chopped parsley and serve hot, 

RED BEANS. 

Haricots Rour/cs 
lied Beans are great favorites 
among Creole families, the large 
amount of sustenance to be found in 
them and the White Bean commend- 
ing them especially as food for grow- 
ing children and adults w^ho labor 
hard. The beautiful color and ex- 
cellent flavor of the Red Bean es- 
pecially has won for it a place among 
the most highly esteemed vegetables. 

IUhI Beans, Plain Boiled. 

Haricots Rouges au Naturel 

1 Pint of Dried Red Beans. 

% Spoonful of Lard or Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

This is an excellent way of prepar- 
ing Red Beans for Fridays and fast 
days. Soak the beans in cold water 
over night, or at least five or six 
hours, and drain off the water, using 
at least a quart of water to a pint 
of beans. Let them boil for at least 
an hour and a half or two hours, and 
then sea.son nicely with salt and pep- 
per. Add a half tablespoonful of lard 
or butter, let them cook for fifteen 
minutes more, and serve them in their 
own juice. This dish is excellent with 
boiled rice. 

Hcd Beans, Burgundy Style 

Haricots Rouges d la Bourguignonne 

1 Quart of Red Beans. 

1 Ounce of Butter. 1 Onion. 2 Cloves. 

1 Herb Bouquet. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

6 Small Glazed Onions. 

Pick and wash the beans and let 
them soak in cold water for six hours. 
Drain thoroughly, and put in a sauce- 
pan, with sufficient fresh cold water 
to cover. Add a tablespoonful of 
butter, and a medium-sized onion, 
with two cloves stuck in It. Boll for 
about twenty minutes. Stir well, and 
let the beans cook for three-quarters 
of an hour longer, stirring frequently 
to keep from scorching. Then re- 
move from the fire, take out the herb 
bouquet and onion, pour the beans 
into a hot dish, and decorate the 
edges with a half dozen small glazed 
onions. (See recipe.) Serve hot. 



the: picayuxe Creole cook book 



189 



Red Beans & la Cond^. 

Pur(e d la Cond€ 
See recipe under heading: "Soups." 
This is a most nutritious dish. 

Red Beans and Rice. 

Haricots Rouges au Riz 

1 Quart of Dried Red Beans. 
1 Carrot. 1 Onion^ 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Pound of Ham or Salt Meat. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wash the beans and soak them over 
nifht, or at least five or six hours, in 
fresh, cold water. When ready to 
coolc, drain off this water and cover 
the beans very deep with " at least 
two quarts of cold water, for beans 
must cook thoroughly. Let the water 
heat slowly. Then add the ham or 
salt pork, and the herbs and onion 
and carrot, minced fine. Boil the 
beans at least two hours, or until 
tender enough to mash easily under 
pressure. When tender, remove from 
the pot, put the salt meat or ham 
on top of the dish, and serve hot as 
a vegetable, with boiled rice as an 
entree, with Veal Saut6, Daube & la 
Mode, Orillades k la Sauce, etc. 

Pur6e of Red Beans. 

Purie d*Haricot9 Rouges 

1 Quart of Dried Red Beans. 

1 Carrot. 1 Onion. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

H Pound of Ham or Lean Salt Pork. 

yk Pint of Cream or Milk. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Prepare the beans as in the pre- 
ceding recipe i^ it is desired to make 
a pur6e (not a soup.) Remove the 
beans from the Are as soon as they 
will mash very easily under pressure. 
Take out the bits of ham. Press the 
beans through a colander. Add a 
tablespoonful of butter as you return 
them to the pot in which they have 
been boiled, and a half pint of cream 
or milk, or sufficient according to 
quantity to make the pur^e of the 
consistency of thick starch or mashed 
potatoes. Season with salt and pep- 
per, and serve. 

Bacon and Beans Creole Style. 

Haricots au Petit 8aU d la Creole 

1 Quart of Dried Red Beans. 1 Pound 

of Bacon. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Soak the beans over night. Drain 
pff all water. Place in a pot and 



cover well with, cold water in the pro- 
portion already mentioned. Add the 
bacon, leaving it in a single square 
piece, ^\^len both have boiled about 
two hours, season well with pepper 
and a little salt, if necessary, and 
place the bacon in the center of a 
baking dish. Drain the beans and 
put them around the bacon. Fill the 
pan to the top with liquor in which 
the beans have been boiled, and bake 
one hour and a half, or until the 
liquor is nearly all absorbed. Then 
serve hot. White beans may also be 
cooked in this fashion. 

Bean Polenta. 

Polenta d* Haricots 

2 Cups of Dried Beans. 
1 Tablespoonful of Molasses. ^ Table- 
spoonful of Mustard. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Table- 

spoonful of Vinegar. 
Juice of 1 Lemon. Salt and Pepper to 

Taste. 

Use either white or red beans. 
Wash two cupfuls of dried beans, hav- 
ing previously soaked them over 
night. Pour off the water. Put the 
beans in the stew-pan and cover with 
fresh cold water, and cook them until 
very tender. Pour into a colander 
and press the beans through. Put 
this pulp into the stewpan, and add 
one tablespoonful of ready-made mus- 
tard, one tablespoonful of molasses, 
one of butter, one of vinegar, the 
Juice of an onion, and salt and pepper 
to taste. Serve very hot, as a vege- 
table. 

WHITE BEANS. 

Des Haricots Blancs 
White Beans may be prepared in 
exactly the same manner as Red 
Beans, using any of the above re'cipes. 
By many the White Bean Is pre- 
ferred for its greater delicacy. 

• 

Wlilte Beans h la Maftrc d'Hotel 

Haricots Blancs d la Maitre d'Hotel 

1 Quart of White Beans. 

2 Sprigs of Minced Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 
Sauce a la Maftre d'HOtel. 

Prepare the White Beans and cook 

in exactly the same manner as Red 

Beans d. la Mattre d'Hotel. Before 

adding the butter, however, add a 

minced sprig of thyme, bay leaf and 

pars^ley, and salt and pepper to taste. 

Let them simmer for a few minutes 

and then take them off the fire and 

add the juice of a lemon. 



190 



m 



THE PICAirUNE GIl£X>IiE COOK BOOK 



DRIED PEAS. 

Dca Poia Sees 
All dried peas, whether Black-eyed 
Peas, Lady Peas, or any other variety, 
may be cooked accordinir to any of the 
above recipes. Be careful always to 
soak them over night in cold water, 
or at least six hours If in the early 
morning, before beginning to cook 
them. 

COWPEAS. 

Pois Congris 
These peas are utilized by the Cre- 
oles in making that famous dish, 
"Jambalaya au Congri." (See recipe 
under heading "Louisiana Rice.") On 
Fridays the rice and peas, which are 
always boiled separately, must not be 
cooked with meat, if this day is kept 
as a fast day. The peas and rice 
are simply mixed well together and 
eaten with butter. 



BUTTERBEANS. 

FH'es Plates 

1 Pint of Butterbeans. 2 Pints of Water. 

1 Tablespoonful (Heaping) of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

The Butterbean is one of the most 
delicate of our Louisiana vegetables. 
Soak the Butterbeans for about a half 
hour in water. Pour ofC this cold 
fresh water, and then put them in a 
porcelain-lined saucepan, or one of 
agate, and cover with two pints of 
water. Let them boil well for about 
an hour, or less, if they are very 
tender. As soon as they crush easily 
under pressure take off the fire, drain 
them WQll and season with salt and 
pepper. Top them off with a heaping 
tablespoonful of butter and a tea- 
spoonful of parsley, minced very fine, 
and serve hot. 



LIMA BEANS. 

Haricots de Lima. 

1 Pint of Lima Beans. 3 Pints of Water. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. % Pint of 

Cream. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Soak the Lima Beans over night. 
Drain off the water, put them in a por- 
celain or agate saucepan, and cover 
with three pints of boiling water. 
Boil them until very tender, which 
will require at least two hours. 
After they have boiled one hour, 
add a teaspoonful of salt, or salt 
to taste. When done, drain the 



beans and return to the saucepan. 
Add a half pint of cream or milk, a 
tablespoonful of flour, blended well 
with butter, salt and pepper to taste, 
a sprig each of thyme and parsley 
and bay leaf minced very fine. Let 
all simmer for ten minutes, and tben 
serve hot. Or the beans may be 
served without the cream, simply 
buttering well and adding salt and 
pepper to taste. All shelled beans. 
such as the Kidney and the small 
French bean, may be cooked in the 
same way. 

Bean Croquettes. 

Haricots en Croquettes 

1 Pint of Beans. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 
Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

Any left-over beans may be most 

palatably utilized in this way. Mash 

the beans well by pressing through a 

colander. Then add salt and pepper 

to taste, a teaspoonful of vinegar, 

and a tablespoonful of melted butter. 

Form into small boulettes, or balls. 

and dip in a raw ees, well beaten, and 

then roll in bread crumbs. Fry them 

in boiling fat, and serve hot. 

BEETS. 

Des Betteraves 

We have in New Orleans two crops 
of beets, the winter and the summer 
variety. Summer beets require less 
time to boil than the winter. Good 
judgment must always be the guide. 

Beets may be kept several days 
when boiled, and make a beautiful 
garnish. 

The small winter beets may be 
served aux Beurre Maltre d'Hotel, or 
they may be saut6d in butter or 
served Sautfies a la Crdme or d, la 
B6chamel. Beet roots are generally 
served as a salad or garnish. Al- 
ways cut off and save the green 
tops of the beets. These may be 
boiled with salt meat, or made Into 
a pur^e, or used in the famous Creole 
Gumbo aux Herbes. 

BoUed Beets. 

Betteraves Bouillics. 

A ii®?®^T.^°^V-^ ^ Quarts of Water. 
A Plain French Drecsing (if served as a 

salad). 

Cut off the beet tops and save for 
boiling or pur^e or gumbo. Soak the 
beets in cold fresh water, and wash 
well, taking off every parUcle of 



rr 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



191 



earth that may adhere. However, 
do this without scraping them. If 
the beets are very tender, they will 
cook in an hour. Older beets require 
all the way from three to four hours 
according to size. If the beet is wilted 
or tough, no amount of boiling will 
ever make it perfectly tender. If 
you break the skins of the beets be- 
fore cooking, the flavor as well as the 
color will be lost when boiled. Put 
the beets into a pot of cold water, cov- 
ering well, and boil until tender. Then 
set them to cool. When cold, slice 
them nicely, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper to taste, and add vinegar, set- 
ting them aside for an hour, for the 
vinegar to penetrate thoroughly. 
Serve as a salad. 

Buttered Beets. 

Bctterav€$ au Beurre 

6 Beet Roots. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

The small winter beets may be 

served aux Beurre Maltre d'Hotel, by 

cooking them till very tender and 

then slicing them and . pouring over 

them a tablespoonful of melted butter, 

and sprinkling nicely with salt and 

pepper. Vinegar may also be added 

at the table if desired. 

Beet Roots Saut6d in Batter. 

Bettcravc» SauUcs au Beurre 

6 Beets. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

A Pinch of Black Pepper. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Powdered 

Sugar. 

Boil the beet roots as in recipe for 
Boiled Beets. '(See recipe.) When 
cooked, peel neatly and cut up into 
dice-shaped pieces. Put them in a 
saucepan with a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, season with a little pinch of black 
pepper and salt to taste, and sprinkle 
the powdered sugar over them. Let 
them cook for five minutes, tossing 
them lightly and almost constantly. 
Send to the table hot, as a vegetable. 

Beet Boots Sauted k la Bechamel oa 
Ik la Crdme. 

Betteraves SauUes d la B^hamel ou d la 

Cr^me 

6 Beet Roots. 1 Ounce of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

H Pint of Bechamel or Cream Sauce. 

Prepare the beets exactly as in the 
preceding recipe, and about five min- 
utes before serving add half a pint of 
hot Bechamel or Cream Sauce. Serve 
as a vegetable. 



Borecole or Curled Kale. 

Ohou Vert 
This Is a vegetable cultivated by 
Louisiana truck farmers principally 
for family use. It requires frost to 
make it good for the table. It is 
treated and served in the same man- 
ner as cabbage; all recipes for cook- 
ing cabbage may, therefore, be used 
in preparing Chou Vert. 

BROCCOLI. 

Chou Broccoli 
Broccoli is a vegetable of the same 
order as the Cauliflower, and resem- 
bles it very much, only the plant does 
not form such compact heads, and is 
not quite so white, being of a green- 
ish cast. It is prepared and served 
in all ways in which Cauliflower is 
served. (See recipes for Cauliflower.) 

BRUSSKLS SPROUTS. 

Choux de Bruxellea 

1 Quart of Brussels Sprouts. 
H Gallon of Water. 1 Tablespoonful 

of Salt. 

Pick the sprouts carefully, reject- 
ing all loose, dead leaves, and then 
throw the sprouts into cold fresh 
water, so that any lurking insects 
may be drawn out. Wash and pick 
carefully after the sprouts have re- 
mained about twenty minutes in the 
water. Then put them into half a 
gallon of boiling water, and add Im- 
mediately a tablespoonful of salt and 
a quarter of a spoon of bicarbonate 
of soda (cooking soda.) Let the 
sprouts boil (uncovered) for twenty 
minutes, or just long enough to make 
them tender all through. By no 
means must they be soft, or go to 
pieces. Boil rapidly. Then drain In 
a colander, season well with pepper 
and salt, and serve in a heated dish 
with a Drawn Butter Sauce poured 
over them. (See sauces.) 

Brussels Sprouts 8aut6d In Butter. 

Ohouw de Bruxellea 8aut€s au Beurre 

1 Quart of Brussels Sprouts. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter, 1 Teaspoon- 

ful of Chopped Parsley. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Prepare the Brussels Sprouts care* 
fully as in the preceding recipe. After 
washing, drain thoroughly and boll 
them in salted water for ten minutes. 
Drain them and put them into 
cold water. Drain again and put 



192 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



them In a saucepan, with two table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Season accord- 
ing to taste with salt and pepper, 
and add a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley. Let them cook slightly for 
ten minutes more, or less if very 
tender, and serve hot. 

Brussels Sprouts h la Cr^me. 

Choux de Brussels d la Crime 

1 Quart of Brussels Sprouts. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

V^ Cupful of Cream or Milk. 

A Pinch of Nutmeg. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Prepare and boil the Brussels 
Sprouts as in the preceding recipe. 
Drain thoroughly, and put in a sauce- 
pan, with two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, and season with salt and pepper 
to taste, and a pinch of nutmeg. Add 
a half cup of cream or milk, and toss 
lightly for five or ten minutes, but 
do not let them boil. Place on a hot 
dish, garnish nicely and serve hot. 

CABBAGE. 

Du Chou 
Cabbage is said to be the most nu- 
tritious of all vegetables. It enters 
largely into the daily life of every 
Creole. We have two crops of cab- 
bage in New Orleans, the summer 
and winter. It is said that when cab- 
bage is cooking the odor fills the 
house. But the Creoles overcome 
this by using a very large pot, drop- 
ping in a bit of charcoal and not fill- 
ing it too near the brim, as the old 
darkies say it is the boiling water that 
forms into steam and causes the odor 
when boiling cabbage. Again, a piece 
of bread is tied in a very fine and thin 
piece of white cloth and is put in the 
pot for about twenty minutes when it 
is removed and burned, for the odor 
of cabbage has clung to it. The 
process is repeated with a fresh piece 
of cloth and bread three times or 
more. 



Boiled Cabbage. 

Chou Bouilli 

A Fine Head of Green and White 

Cabbage. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 1 Red Pepper 

Pod. 
1 Teaspoonful of Chili Pepper. 

For boiling, select a fine head in 
which the green and white are pret- 
tily mingled. The white makes the 



daintiest dish. Remove all the out- 
side leaves and reject them. Xlien 
cut the cabbage head into quarters, 
and let it soak in cold water for about 
an hour. Then drain well, and pull 
off each leaf separately to dislcxlgre 
all lurking insects, and wash tlie 
leaves in a pan of fresh water. Drain 
thoroughly, put them into a large pot 
of boiling water with a pound of h&m 
or salt pork, and cook them for an 
hour or more until tender. After 
they have cooked for ten minutes 
add a teaspoonful of salt and a re<l 
pepper pod, cut in two. Add a tea- 
spoonful of Chili pepper. Cover tlie 
cabbage and boil for one hour, if 
it is very young and tender; boil for 
two hours or more if it is tougrii* 
When done drain well of all water, 
and place in a dish with the salt meat 
or ham on top, and serve hot, Tlie 
Creoles serve boiled cabbage with a 
homemade pepper vinegar. 

Cabbage and Corned Beef. 

Chou et Bocuf au Mi-sel 

1 Fine Head of Cabbage. 1 Pound of 

Corn Beef. 

1 Red Pepper Pod. 

1 Teaspoonful of Chili Pepper. 

To boil corned beef and cabbage, 
wash the meat in cold water and put 
it in a large kettle; cover with cold 
water. Let it simmer gently for two 
hours. Then add the cabbage, which 
you will have prepared according to 
directions in the above recipe, and 
let all boil for two hours longer. When 
done, put the cabbage in a dish, with 
the meat in the center, and serve 
with tomato catsup or horseradish or 
mustard sauce. The cabbage may be 
put in the pot after having been cut 
in four quarters and soaked, but it is 
always safer to pick over each leaf, 
for fear of insects. 

Stewed Cabbage. 

Chou £touff6 

1 Head of Cabbage. 1 Pound Ham or 

Salt Pork. 

Salt to Taste. Pinch of Red Pepper Pod. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

Parboil the cabbage after cutting 
into quarters. Let it boil well about 
half an hour: Then take it out of 
the water and drain nicely, separat- 
ing the leaves do'trn to the heart as 
it cools. Cut the ham into pieces 
about two inches long. Put a table- 
spoonful of lard in a very deep stew- 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



193 



ing: pan, or a pot. Put into this the 
ham or salt meat, and let it fry well. 
Add two chaurice, or sausaRCK. As 
these brown well moisten with half 
a cup of boiling: water, and let sim- 
mer crently for fifteen minutes. When 
well browned add, little by little, the 
cabbage, stirring it well, and let it 
simmer gently for an hour and a half 
or longer, covering well, and stirring 
frequently to prevent burning. Add 
an inch of red pepper pod, cut fine, 
and salt to taste if you use ham, and 
none at all if you use salt meat. 
Serve hot. 

Cabbage Stewed With Sausage. 

SaucUaona aux Choux 

2 Dozen Fine Sausage. (Chaurice Pre- 
ferred.) 
1 Head of Cabbage. 
1 Tablespoonful of Lard. Salt to Taste. 
1 Inch of Red Pepper Pod. 
1 Pound Fresh Pork. 

This is a famous Creole dish, for 
many generations in vogue in New 
Orleans, and dearly loved by the lit- 
tle Creole children. Wash the cab- 
bage well after having cut it into 
quarters and allowed it to soak half 
an hour. Cut the cabbage into shreds 
of about one inch in width and five 
in length, according to the leaf. Then 
scald the cabbage with boiling water 
for about fifteen minutes. Throw 
off this water, and cover It again with 
boiling water, and let it boil for 
twenty minutes. In the meanwhile, 
prick each sausage in several places, 
and cut the meat into pieces of about 
two inches in length and one in 
thickness; put the lard in the frying 
pan and fry the sausage and meat 
until they are about half done; then 
drain the cabbage and put it with the 
sausage, the meat and the drip- 
pings. Cover and stew gently where 
it will not scorch, for at least forty 
minutes; season with salt, and add 
Immediately after putting In the cab- 
bage an Inch of red pepper pod. Let 
all simmer, then send It to table with 
the sausage and the meat piled In the 
center and the cabbage heaped around 
as a border. 

Creamed Cabbage. 

Chou d la Crt^-me 

1 Head of Tender White Cabbage. 
A Cream Sauce. 

Take a fine delicate head of white 
cabbage; cut It In quarters and soak 



in cold water for an hour. Then re- 
move all the hard parts, and cut the 
remainder Into fine shreds. Put It 
into the stewing pan and pour over 
boiling water enough to cover; sea- 
son with salt and pepper; let it boll 
at least thirty minutes, and then drain 
in a colander. Have ready a heated 
dish; turn the cabbage Into this and 
pour over It a Cream Sauce. (See re- 
cipe.) 

Cabbage Sauted With Cream. 

Chou Saut€ d la Crime 

A Fine Head of White Cabbage. 
1 Cupful of Cream or Milk. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 1 Table- 
spoonful of Flour. 
A Pinch of Black Pepper. Salt to Taste. 

Prepare the cabbage according to 

recipe. Blanch In hot water for ten 

minutes, then drain and throw Into 

cold water. Drain agan, chop until 

very fine and put Into a saucepan with 

two tablespoonfuls of butter; add the 

salt to taste and the black pepper. 

Take a tablespoonful of fiour and 

blend well with a little milk, and then 

add gradually a cup of cream or milk. 

Add this to the cabbage and mix well, 

and let all cook for three-quarters of 

an hour or an hour, till done; arrange 

neatly on a hot dish and serve. 

StufTed Cabbage. 

Chou Farci 

1 Head of Fine White Cabbage. 
1 Dozen Fine Chaurice. 2 Onions. 1 

Tomato. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Square Inch of Ham. 1 Spoonful of 

Butter. 

Thyme, Parsley and Bay Leaf. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Select a fine head of cabbage. Take 
away the* big, green leaves, and se- 
lect about twelve of the finest and 
nicest of the large white leaves. Put 
them in cold water for about an hour; 
then parboil for about twenty min- 
utes In boiling water. In the mean- 
time prepare a stuffing with a dozen 
fine chaurice, one onion (chopped 
fine), a tablespoonful of butter and 
a tomato. Mince the sausage meat 
very fine after taking out of the cases, 
and also the onion and tomato. Mince 
fine one sprig each of thyme, pars- 
ley and bay leaf; add one square Inch 
of finoly-mlnced ham. Put the butter 
In the frying pan, and as It browns 
add the onions; let these brown, and 
add the sausage meat and the ham. 



194 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLtE COOK BOOK 



Mince four or flvo of the tender white 
leaves of the cabbage very fine and 
add; then add the minced clove of 
garlic and onion; let these brown for 
five minutes, and then let all simmer 
for about ten minutes. Drain dry 
and lay open on the table the cabbage 
leaves, putting In each leaf an equal 
quantity of the stuffing; fold over and 
close nicely. Then lay slender strips 
of bacon in the bottom of a wide 
and deep frying pan; place the stufted 
leaves on top of these, and place 
other strips of bacon on top; cover 
and let them cook for a half hour, 
or until the cabbage leaves are very 
tender. Take out of the pan and 
lay in a heated dish and serve very 
hot. The Creoles also have a way 
of making a nice sauce to serve 
with these. After laying the stuffed 
cabbage leaves in the frying pan, add 
one square inch of ham, minced very 
fine; two carrots, sliced fine; one 
onion, chopped very fine, and sprigs 
of thyme, parsley and bay leaf. 
Moisten with a cup of good bouillon 
or water, and cover the pan and al- 
low all to simmer well with the cab- 
bage. When just ready to serve, 
place the cabbage in a heated dish 
and allow the sauce to reduce for five 
minutes longer; then strain it through 
a fine sieve and pour over each 
stuffed leaf of cabbage as it is served. 
The stuffed cabbage leaves may also 
be thrown into boiling water for 
thirty minutes, after being tied to- 
gether well, and served with a Cream 
Sauce. (See recipe.) 

Stuffed Cabbage With Cream Sauce. 

Chou Farci d la Crtme 

1 Fine Head Cabbage. 1 Dozen Fine 

Chaurice. 1 Onion. 
3 Sprigs Each of Thyme, Parsley and 

Bay Leaf. 

1 Square Inch of Ham. 

1 Inch of a Red Pepper Pod. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Select a fine tender head of cab- 
bage Pick off the outer leaves, and 
let it soak in cold fresh water for an 
hour. Then let the cabbage remain 
in a pot of boiling water for about 
three-quarters of an hour. In the 
meantime make a stuffing by tnking 
one dozen fine Chaurice, or sausage 
meat, one onion, and three sprigs 
each of thyme and parsley, and one 
bay leaf. Mince the herbs and onion 
very fine, and add to them one square 
inch of finely minced ham. Chop 



the sausage meat once again, mix 
this with the ham and herbs, and 
then add the finely minced onion and 
a small clove of finely minced garlic. 
Mix these well together. Season to 
taste. Take the cabbage out of the 
water, open it carefully to the very 
heart, and put in a teaspoonful ot 
the dressing. Fold over this two or 
three leaves, and then put some of the 
dressing between another layer of 
leaves, and so continue until eacb 
layer of leaves has been nicely stuffed. 
Press all firmly together, and then 
tie it in the large leaves, which you 
have already boiled with the cab- 
bage. Put it into the kettle of boil- 
ing water, and add a little ^alt and 
two inches of a red pepper pod, 
thyme, parsley and bay leaf. Let it 
boll for two hours. When done care- 
fully untie the larger leaves in which 
you have cooked the cabbage, and 
lay the head in a well-heated dish. 
Pour over all a Cream Sauce, and 
serve hot. (See Cream Sauce.) 

SAUERKRAUT. 

Ohou-CroUte 

1 Fine Head of Cabbage. 1 Quart of 

Vinegar. 
3 Ounces of Salt for Each Layer of 

Cabbage. 

To prepare Chou-Croftte, take a 
large head of cabbage, and remove 
the green leaves. Shred the cabbage 
into fine pieces, about five inches long 
and one inch wide. Then line the 
bottom and sides of a wooden keg 
with the. green leaves of the cabbage. 
Put in a layer of about three ounces 
of salt, and place on this a layer of 
cabbage leaves of about three inches 
in thickness. Cover again-^with a layer 
of salt, and pound down well, and so 
continue until you have used up the 
cabbage. Pour over this sufficient 
vinegar to cover. Wash some boards 
or the cover of the keg and line 
them with cabbage leaves, and cover 
the keg closely. Weight down the keg 
cover with a fifteen-pound weight, 
and set it in a place of even moderate 
temperature. N. B. The keg should 
have in the bottom a hole stopped up 
with a plug. When the cabbage be- 
gins to ferment (in about five or six 
days) take the plug out, and let the 
liquor from the fermentation flow 
through this canal. After the first 
operation open the keg and renew 
the vinegar, skimming the fermenta* 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



195 



tion from the top, and so continue 
until the cabbage is clear and without 
odor. The Chou-Croflte should be 
placed in a cool place. When ready 
to use take it out and let it soak for 
two to three hours in cool fresh water, 
and when quite fresh-looking put it 
into a saucepan and cook as you* 
would cabbage, with salt meat, pork, 
sausage or corned beef. 

CAUIjIFIX>WER. 

Choux-Fleur, 
Cauliflower may be either boiled 
and served with various sauces or 
made into that delightful dish, "Caul- 
iflower au Gratin." 



Boiled Cauliflower, Cream Sauce. ' 

Choux Fleur d la Crdme 

2 Medium-Sized Cauliflowers 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

A Cream Sauce. 2 Lemons Cut In 

Quarters. 

To boil the cauliflower, pick off the 
outer leaves, leaving only the one del- 
icate row near the bottom of the 
flowerets. Cut the stem very closely, 
wash the cauliflower with great 
care in cold fresh water, and then 
soak, with the head downiyards, about 
twenty minutes, to drain off all possi- 
ble insects. Have ready a pot of 
boiling water. Tie the cauliflower in 
a nice, clean piece of cheesecloth to 
prevent its breaking while boiling. 
Put the cauliflower in the kettle 
of boiling water, with the stem 
downwards. Add a teaspoonful of 
salt and cover the kettle. Let 
the cauliflower boil from thirty to 
forty minutes, according to size, or 
until it is all quite tender. When 
cooked, lift it gently out by the 
cheesecloth, untie and set it in a dish, 
stem downward. Pour over it a 
Cream Sauce and serve hot. Place 
on each plate, when serving, a quar- 
ter of a lemon, nicely cut. 



CaullAower Boiled With Butter. 

OlMU-Fleur Bouilli au Beurre 

2 Medium-Sized Cauliflowers. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

A Tablespoonful of Salt. A Pinch of 

Pepper. 
1 Tablespoonful of Vinegar. 

Prepare the cauliflower as in recipe 
Boiled Cauliflower, Cream Sauce. 
After picking and washing carefully 
put it in a saucepan and cover with 



cold water. Add the salt and pepper 
and a tablespoonful of butter. Let it 
cook for half an hour, then drain 
through a colander. Place it on a 
dish and add a sauce made of one 
tablespoonful of butter, one of vinegar 
and a dash of salt and pepper, all 
mixed thoroughly, and serve hot. 

Cauliflower With Hot Sauce. 

Choux-Fleur d la Sauce Blanche ou au Jus 

1 Large or 2 Small Cauliflowers. 
A Teaspoonful of SaL. 

A White Sauce or Sauce Ailemande. 

Separate the cauliflower, piece by 
piece, having taken off the outer 
leaves and cut off the rough stalk. 
Place the pieces in a pot of boiling 
water, with a teaspoonful of salt, and 
let them boil rapidly for about half an 
hour, till tender. When done, take 
them out gently with a skimmer, 
place them in a bowl and pour a 
Sauce Blanche or Sauce Ailemande 
over them. 

Cauliflower prepared in this man- 
ner may be served with a Hollan- 
daise Sauce. 

CauUflowcr k la Vinaigrette. 

Choux-Fleur d la Vinaigrette 

1 Large or 2 Medium-Sized Cauliflowers. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vinegar. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the cauliflower as above, and 
serve "& la Vinaigrette," that is. with 
vinegar, pepper and salt. This is a 
common and pleasant way that the 
Creoles have of serving the vegetable. 

Cauliflower k la Maitre d'Hotel 

Choux-Fleur d la Maitre d'llotcl 

1 Large or 2 Medium-Sized Cauliflowers. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

A Sauce & la Maitre d'HOtel. 

Boil the cauliflower whole, as in 
the first recipe. Bring it to the table 
whole, like bloming flowerets, in a 
dish nicely garnished, and serve hot 
with a Sauce k la Maitre d'Hotel and 
lemon cut in quarters. 

Cauliflower au Gratin. 

Choux-Fleur au Oratin 

1 Ordinary-Sized Head of Cauliflower. 
1 Pint of Cream. 
% Pint of Grated Parmesan and 
Gruy^re Cheese. Mixed. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Table- 
spoonful of Flour. 

Cook the cauliflower as in the first 
recipe. When boiled, take it out of 



196 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLiE COOK BOOK 



the cheesecloth in which It was wrap- 
ped and let it cool. Put a tablespoon- 
ful of butter into the frying pan, and 
as it melts add a tablespoonful of 
flour. Let these blend nicely, without 
browning, and add immediately half a 
pint of milk and half a pint of grated 
Parmesan or Gruy^re cheese. Mix 
this thoroughly in the sauce, and let 
it cook well for about ten minutes. 
Put the cauliflower in a pan, or the 
dish in which it is to be served, having 
greased the dish with butter. Sprinkle 
some grated cheese all over the 
cauliflower, and then cover the cauli- 
flower with the sauce, forcing it 
down into every nook and crevice. 
When these crevices are full, and the 
cauliflower seems to have absorbed 
all it can, wipe the edges of the 
dish with a napkin. Then add 
grated bread crumbs, sprinkling them 
over the cauliflower; dot it in about 
a dozen places with little bits of but- 
ter. Set it in the oven, let it brown, 
and serve hot. Let it bake about 
twenty minutes, or until brown. 



let them simmer gently for about 
twenty minutes. Then add a little 
chopped parsley and sugar, and serve 

hot. 

Carrots k la Maitre d'HoteL 

Carottes A la Maitre d*H6tel 

4 Good -SI zed Carrots. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

3 Sprigs Each of Thyme and Parsley. 

1 Bay Leaf. 
Salt and Pepper. 

Scrape the carrots and boil tliem 
economically while you are making 
soup or bouillon, leaving tliem 
whole. When done and ready to 
serve, skim out of the soup, and place 
in a dish. Cut them into pieces, long 
or round, and then place them in 
a hot frying pan with a tablespoonful 
of butter, minced parsley, thyme, bay 
leaf. Add salt and pepper to taste, 
and when they have cooked for about 
ten or flfteen minutes pour over them 
a Sauce d. la Mattre d'HOtel, and serve 
hot. The carrots may also be simply 
boiled, seasoned, and served with a 
Drawn Butter Sauce. 



CARROTS. 

De% Carottea 
Carrots are among the most im- 
portant of the vegetables used in sea- 
soning. They enter largely into the 
making of soups, daubes, stews, etc., 
giving a delightful flavor, which is 
found in no other vegetable. Eaten '*au 
jus" or in their natural state, they 
may be stewed, fried or smothered. 
Any one of these dishes makes a de- 
lightful and appetizing entree. 



Carrots h la liyonnalae 

Carottea d la Lyonnaiae 

3 Carrots. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Onion, Minced Very Fine. 

Salt, Pepper, Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

Boll the carrots according to recipe 
given above, and then cut into thin 
slices. Fry an onion in butter, add 
the carrots. Sprinkle well with salt 
and pepper, and add minced thyme, 
parsley and bay leaf. Fry ten min- 
utes, and serve hot. 



Stewed Carrots. 

Carottes d la Crdme 

4 Carrots of Good Size. 
1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoon- 
ful Flour. % Pint of Milk. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Scrape the carrots and throw them 
into cold water for about a quarter 
of an hour. Then put them in a 
saucepan, and cover with boiling 
water. Add the salt, and let them 
cook for an hour and a half, boiling 
steadily. Drain off all water, then 
cut neatly into one-half inch dice 
pieces, or slice thin. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter in the frying pan, 
and add the flour, blending well, but 
without browning. Then add the milk, 
letting it cook down to a rich cream 
sauce. Add the carrots to this, and 



Boiled Carrots, Creole Style. 

Carottes 8aut4ea d la Creole 

9 Nice Tender Carrots, 1 Tomato. 
1 Square Inch Ham. 1 Tablespoonful 

Butter. 

6 Fine Chaurice or Sausages. 

3 Shallots. 1 Onion: ^ Pint Bouillon. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Thyme, Parsley, Bay Leaf. % Clove 

Garlic. 

Boil the carrots for one hour and a 
half. Then cut into dice or nice slices. 
Put the butter in the saucepan, and 
add the onions, minced very fine, and 
the shallots, greens and whites. Let 
these brown for a few minutes, and 
then add the lean square inch of ham 
and three Chaurice whole. Let these 
simmer for three minutes, and add 
the minced herbs. Then add the to- 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



19' 



mato and its juice, mincing it well. 
Let all simmer for three minutes 
more, till the tomato has browned, and 
add a half pint of bouillon. Let all 
this simmer for ten minutes, and then 
add the carrots, nicely seasoned. Stir 
well. Cover and let them simmer for 
about half an hour. Serve hot. This 
is a true dish of Carrots & la Creole. 
Eat with Daube, Roast, etc. 

CELERY 

Du C^lcri 
Celery may be eaten "au naturel." 
that is, in its natural state; or in 
salad; or it may be cooked. When 
cooked, it is best d. la Cr&me, or in a 
Pur6e of Celery. (See recipe.) 

Fresh Celery 

C€leri au Naturel 

Scrape and wash the celery nicely. 
Then cut off the long: outer leaves, 
leaving the tips nice and crisp. Set 
in a celery glass or bowl, with about . 
one inch of salt and water, and serve 
as an appetizer, or hors d'oeuvre, at 
the beginning of the meal. 

Celery makes a pretty decoration 
for any table. The leaves that have 
been cut off should be saved and used 
as garnishes, and also for seasoning. 

Creamed Celery 

C6leri d la Crime 

1 Pint of Cut Celery. 

1 Cupful of Milk or Cream. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoonful 

Flour. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Cut • fresh, crisp celery into inch 
pieces, until you have a pint full. 
Wash thoroughly, and put in boiling 
water and cook until tender, which 
will be about twenty-flve minutes 
or a half-hour. Then put a table- 
spoonful of butter in a saucepan, and 
add the flour, blending without let- 
ting brown. When perfectly smooth, 
add the cream or milk and let it come 
to a boil. Then add salt and pepper 
to taste. Drain out the celery, and 
add it to the sauce, and stir gently, 
letting it cook twenty minutes longer. 
Serve hot. The dish should be kept 
covered while cooking. 

Celery root and the green stalks of 
the celery, which you do not serve 
at table, may also be utilized in this 
way, making a most acceptable and 
palatable dish. 



Celery h rEspagnole 

Ctleri d VEspagnole 

4 Stalks of Celery. 2 Hard-Boiled Eggs. 

1 Onion. 
Salt and Pepper and 1 Tablespoonful 

Vinegar. 

This is a form of celery salad. Wash 
and scrape th*e celery well, and then 
chop it fine. Chop an onion very fine, 
and also several sprigs of parsley. 
Cut up a hard-boiled e^^ very fine. 
Mix all these together, pour over them 
a little Tarragon vinegar and oil. if 
desired, and serve as a salad. 

Celery Salad 

C6lcri en 8alade 
See recipe for Celery Salad. 

Celcr>- Stew. 

C^lcH aux Petit Pois 

6 Stalks of Celery. 1 Egg. 
1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoon- 
ful Flour. 
1 Cup of Milk or Bouillon. 

Cut the celery into pieces and 
blanch and boil for about tjiirty min- 
utes. Then drain. Put a tablespoon- 
ful of butter into a saucepan, and add 
the flour, blending without browning. 
Add the milk and salt and pepper to 
taste. When it begins to boil add the 
chopped celery. Let all simmer for 
twenty minutes longer,, and then take 
off the flre and add the well-beaten 
yolk of an egg. Season again to taste, 
and serve. Bouillon or water may be 
substituted for the milk. 

Celery Patties 

Patia de C6leri 

The Hearts of 3 Heads of Celery. ^ 

Cupful of Grated Ham. 

% Cupful of Cream. % Cup of Fine 

Bread Crumbs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Boll the celery hearts till tender, 
then drain and pound to a paste, with 
a cupful of grated ham, cream and 
flne bread crumbs; season to taste 
with salt and pepper and add a table- 
spoonful of butter. Steam the mix- 
ture till it thickens, then fill small 
patty cases with it and serve hot. 

Celery Fritters 

Beignets de Cilcri 

3 Heads of Celery. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 

2 Ounces of Parmesan Cheese. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Cut the celery into pieces three in- 
ches long, tying them all in bunches 



198 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK B€K>K 



allowing three to a bundle; boil till 
tender in salted water, then take out; 
remove the strings and drain; season 
with salt and pepper, and the grated 
Parmesan cheese. Dip in batter and 
fry and serve as a vegetable. 

CEPS 

Cepa 
Ceps, the strongly flavored, flat- 
headed mushroom preserved in cans 
and imported by us, are considered 
great delicacies by Creole Epicures. 
They are quite expensive, and are, 
therefore not as generally used in 
household cookery as the less pre- 
tentious mushroom. 



CHERVnj 

OerfeuU 

Chervil is an aromatic plant, 
serabling parsley, and is much used 
for seasonings, mainly in oyster soups. 
It is also considered a delightful salad 
herb, and is often cut and mixed be- 
tween lettuce, and served as a salad. 
It is used, minced, in small quantities, 
in nearly all salads prepared to suit 
the taste of epicures. This plant is 
little known in the North, but In 
this section there is hardly a garden 
where it is not found. It is especially 
used as a flavoring for breakfast 
salads, a few leaves imparting a de- 
lightful taste. 



Ceps on Toast 

Oepa 8ur Canapis 

3 Ceps. The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

6 Slices of Toast. 

Drain the Ceps from their oil, slice 
nicely and fry lightly on a slow fire. 
When thoroughly heated take from 
the pan, sprinkle lightly with chopped 
parsley and lemon Juice, arrange 
daintily on slices of toast and send to 
the table hot. 

Stewed Ceps 

Ceps Sautes 

3 Cops. 1 Onion, Minced Pine. 1 Clove 

of Garlic. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Table- 
spoonful of Flour. 
1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 
% Cup of Milk. 

Drain the Ceps from their oil; slice 
nicely; put a tablespoonful of butter 
in a saucepan, add the minced union 
and the clove of garlic minced very 
fine; moisten with a half cup of milk, 
let the mixture simmer gently for 
twenty minutes, then serve the Ceps 
on slices of toast with the sauce 
poured around them. 

Broiled Ceps on Toast 

Ceps OHlUs 8ur Canap6s 

3 Ceps. V& Pint of Sauce & la Maltre 

d'Hotel. 

Grated Bread Crumbs. Sliced Lemon 

and Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 

Drain the Ceps from their oil; sea- 
son well with salt and pepper; roll 
in fresh bread crumbs finely grated, 
broil nicely on a double broiler and 
arrange them on toast. Pour over 
each slice some of the Sauce k la 
Maltre d' Hotel, garnish nicely with 
sliced onion and serve hot. 



CHESTNUTS 

Marrona 

Chestnuts are much used for stuf- 
ing game. They are also stewed, 
boiled, or made into purees. (See 
recipe Pur6e de Marrons.) 

Stewed Chestnuts 

Marrona Sautia 

1 Pint of Chestnuts. 1 Pint of Milk. 
1 Tablespoonful Flour. 1 Tablespoon- 
ful Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Shell the chestnuts, and then thro'w 
them into a saucepan of boiling water 
for twenty minutes. Take them out, 
and remove the dark outer skin. Re- 
new the boiling water in the sauce- 
pan, and add the chestnuts and let 
them cook for twenty minutes more, 
or until they may be easily pierced 
with a fork. Then take them o^t and 
drain, and put a tablespoonful of 
butter in a saucepan. Add the flour. 
Blend gradually, without browning. 
Add the pint of milk and then add 
the chestnuts, and *let all cook for 
fifteen minutes longer. Season to 
taste. 



Chestnuts With Brown Sauce 

Marrons 8aut6s d la Sauce Espagnole 

1 Pint of Chestnuts. 1 Pint of Brown 

Sauce. 

The chestnuts may be cooked in 
the same manner as Stewed Chest- 
nuts, as far as boiling. Then make a 
Brown Sauce (see Sauce Espagnole), 
add the chestnuts to it, saut4 for fif- 
teen minutes longer, letting all sim- 
mer gently, and serve hot. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



199 



Boiled Chestnuts 

Marrona BouUHs d la Sauce Mattre 
d'Hotel 

1 Pint of Chestnuts. 1 Pint of Sauce A 
la Maltre d'HoteL 

Prepare and boil the chestnuts ac- 
cording to above directions. When 
done, drain and press through a col- 
ander. The chestnuts must be cooked 
very soft for this dish. Add a Drawn 
Butter Sauce, and sprinkle with salt 
and pepper or a Sauce k la Mattre 
d'Hotel, and serve as an entrfee, like 
mashed potatoes. 

CHIVES 

Gives 

Chives are small bulbous plants of 
the onion tribe. The leaves are long 
and slender and impart a very pleas- 
ant flavor to soups, salads, etc. Chives 
are especially used in seasoning stews 
of rabbits and hares, hence the name 
"Civet," applied to these stews in par- 
ticular, on account of the high sea- 
soning. 

COIiliARDS 

This is a variety of cabbage which 
does not head, but the leaves are 
cooked and served in the same man- 
ner as other cabbage. However, they 
are used principally as "greens," 
boiled with a piece of salt meat. 



ness. Serve immediately after re- 
moving again all the silk, which 
easily comes to the surface in boiling. 
Heap the corn on a platter, and serve 
one ear to each person, with a small 
butter plate of butter, pepper and 
salt. 

Green Com, Planters' Style 

Mau Tendre 6 la VHahitant 

€ Ears of Corn. 

2 Quarts of Boiling Water. 

1 Tablespoonful of Salt. 

Husk the corn and pull off the silk, 
leaving one layer of leaves close to 
the kernels; put to cook in cold water. 
When the corn has boiled well for ten 
minutes, add the salt, but do not let 
it boll longer than five minutes after- 
wards, as boiling too much will harden 
it. Corn cooked in this manner pre- 
serves its sweetness and is most pal- 
atable and tender. 



Roasted Com 

MaU Rotis 

Place the ears of corn which have 
not been removed from the husks in 
a hot oven, or, better still, if you can, 
in hot ashes, and let them roast for 
a half hour or more, until tender. 
Then take them out and remove the 
husks and silk and serve In the same 
manner as boiled corn. 



CORX 

Du MaU 

The first young corn In the market 
Is highly prized, but very shortly 
there Is such an abundance that it 
can be had all summer and late In 
the fall at prices within the reach of 
all. There Is not a healthier or more 
nutritious vegetable. The following 
are some of the dainty ways of pre- 
paring this dish: 

Cora on the Cob 

ipU de Mats Bouillis 

6 Ears of Corn. 2 Quarts of Boiling 

T^ater. 
1 Tablespoonful of Salt. 

Only young and tender corn should 
be boiled. Remove the green out- 
side husks and the silk, as far as 
possible. Put the corn Into a ket- 
tle of boiling water, and let It cook 
rapidly twenty or thirty minutes, If 
the ears are large. More than this 
will oau8e the oom to locie its sweet- 



Creamed Com 

Mats d la Crhne 

8 Fine Ears of Corn. 1 Pint of Milk 

or Cream. 

1 Teaspoon ful of Salt. 

^ Spoonful of Black Pepper. 

1 Dessertspoonful Butter. 

Score the corn down the center of 
each row of grains, and cut It 
from the cob. With the knife press 
out all the pulp from the cob, leav- 
ing only the hull. Set a porce- 
lain or agate saucepan on the fire, 
and put Into this the corn cobs, cut 
Into pieces. Cover with water, and let 
them boll until you have extracted all 
the Juices. When the liquid Is re- 
duced to about one pint, strain it, 
add the corn, and let It boll for about 
twenty minutes. Then stir In half a 
cup of milk, season with salt and pep- 
per to taste, add a teaspoonful of but- 
ter, and serve hot. Or, If you can 
afford It, boll the corn in milk, using 
at least one pint, having first added 
a haiX cup ol the water In which the 



200 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



corn cobs were boiled. Let all sim- 
mer grently for about a half hour, and 
then add salt and pepper to taste, and 
a spoonful of butter, and serve. Some 
like the addition of a teaspoonful of 
sugar, but this is a matter of taste. 



place the whole in a dish, which hai« 
been buttered. Set in the oven 
and bake for an hour, slowly at first, 
more rapidly towards the end of the 
last fifteen minutes. Serve with roast 
beef, veal or lamb. 



Com Saiit^ With Butter 

Mais Tendre BauH au Beurre 

8 Fine Ears of Corn. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Cup of Milk or Water. 

Boil the corn and then cut the 

grains from the cob with a sharp 

knife. Put in a saucepan and add 

one tablespoonful of butter; add the 

milk, and season nicely to taste. Let 

the corn boil for about ten minutes 

and serve hot. 

Com Pudding: 

Ponding de Mats 

1 Dozen Ears of Tender Corn. 1 Quart 

Milk. 

4 Eggs. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of White Sugar. 

Score the corn down each row of 
grains, and grate it from the cob. 
Beat the whites of the eggs and the 
yolks separately. Add the beaten 
yolks to the sugrar and butter, which 
have been rubbed well together. 
Beat all this very light, and then 
^dd the milk and a half teaspoonful 
of salt. Blend well, and add the 
grated corn. Beat again, and blend 
thoroughly, and add the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
Stir in well, and set the mixture in 
the oven with a piece of brown paper 
on top. Bake slowly for about an 
hour, and serve hot. Corn thus pre- 
pared is delicious; it is served with 
daube or roast filet of beef, etc. 

Creamed Baked Com 

Mais R6ti d la Cr^ne 

1 Dozen Large Ears of Toung Corn. 

1 Pint of Milk. 4 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

^ Teaspoonful of Black Pepper. 

1 Dessertspoonful of Butter. 

Score the ears of corn down each 
row with a knife, and then cut from 
the cob. With the knife press out 
all the pulp and corn juice, leaving 
the hulls in the cob. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs well, and then add the 
corn. Season to taste with salt and 
pepper. Add melted butter, and then 
Q,dd the whites of the eggs beaten to 
a- stiff froth. Stir in carefully and 



Fried Cora 

Mais FHt 

1 Dozen Ears Toung, Tender Corn. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

1 Minced Onion. 

Score the corn along each row, and 
then cut from the cob with a knife. 
Press out all the pulp and corn juice 
from the cob. Mix all and season 
well with salt and pepper. Mince the 
onion fine, and blend with the lard, 
which is already heating in the fry- 
ing pan. Add the corn when the 
onions begin to brown slightly, and 
keep stirring steadily until the grains 
are cooked, which will be in about fif- 
teen or twenty minutes. This is a 
very nice breakfast dish or dinner 
entree. 

Com Soup 

Pur6e de Mais 
This is a delightful summer soup 
in New Orleans. (See recipes Creole 
Summer Soups.) 

Com Fritters 
Bdffnets de Mais 

6 Ears of Corn. % Pint of Milk. 1 Egg. 
^ Cup of Flour. 1 Tablespoonful 

Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Grate the corn. Then beat the egg 
well, whites and yolks together, and 
by degrees add the corn, beating in 
thoroughly and very hard. Add a 
tablespoonful of melted butter, and 
then stir in the milk. Add a table- 
spoonful of fiour, or just sufficient to 
thicken and bind, and then fry like 
fritters, in boiling lard, dropping in 
a deep spoonful at a time. Serve hot. 

Com Cakes 

Oateaua de Mais 

6 Ears of Corn. % Pint of Milk. 
1 Egg. % Cup of Flour. 1 Tablespoon- 
ful of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Prepare the batter in exactly the 
same manner as above, bake it on 
a griddle like batter cakes, and serve 
hot, with generous layers of butter 
betw^ei^. These cakes are delicious. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



201 



Corn and Tomatoes 

MaU Sauifs auw Tomatet 

1 Pint of Corn. Cut from the Cob. 
1 Pint of Fresh Tomatoes, Peeled and 

Chopped. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Spriffs Bach of Thyme, Parsley and Bay 

Leaf. 

Place the butter in a frying pan, 
and when it heats well without 
browning add the tomatoes. Let them 
simmer for about five minutes, stir- 
ring well, and then add the minced 
herbs. Let these stew for three min- 
utes, and add the corn, which has 
been scored and cut from the cob. 
Mix all thoroughly. Add salt and pep- 
per to taste, and a teaspoonful of 
sugar, or less, according to taste. Let 
all stew or saut6 for about twenty 
minutes, and then stir in a teaspoon- 
ful more of butter. Serve hot, after 
cooking ten minutes longer. 

Com Salad. 

MAche ou Doucette 
This is a delicious variety of corn, 
and is much used for salads during 
the winter and early spring months 
in New Orleans. The Corn Salad, for 
that is the name given to the vege- 
table, is boiled and then served **k la 
Vinaigrette," that is, with vinegar, 
salt and pepper, or with a plain 
French Dressing; or with beets, sliced. 
Still again, it is served with hard- 
boiled eggs. (See recipe.) 



method of cooking this vegetable can 
ever make up for the delicate flavor 
that has been destroyed by submitting 
it to heat. 

Cucumbers are best when freshly 
picked from the vine. When they 
have been in the market for several 
days and have wilted, they are not fit 
for table use. Cucumbers are exten- 
sively used for salad and pickling pur- 
poses. For salad preparations see 
special recipes under chapter on 
Salads. The word "Gherkin" is ap- 
plied to all kinds of pickled cucum- 
bers; properly, however, the term 
should be given to the small prickly 
variety. Cucumbers, besides being 
served as salads and pickles, are used 
as a relish and as a garnish. 

Cucumbers as a Relish 

Concomhres Comme Hora d*Oeuvre$ 

4 Fine Cucumbers. A French Salad 
Dressing. 

Wash the cucumbers, cut off the bit- 
ter end, and pare the skin to a suffi- 
cient depth to remove the green por- 
tion. Then score them lengthwise 
with a table fork. Put them into a 
salad earthen bowl and sprinkle with 
salt. Set in an ice box for three 
hours; then cut into delicate slices 
and serve with a French Salad Dress- 
ing, the dressing being served in a 
separate dish. In preparing cucum- 
bers for use as a relish with fish, this 
method should be followed. 



CRESS 

0rea90n 
This is one of the most popular 
winter and spring salad plants, and 
is also considered a great appetizer, 
being served as an hors d*oeuvre, and 
eaten simply with salt. As a salad it 
is most cooling, refreshing and 
healthy. We have two varieties, the 
broad-leaved winter "Curled or Pep- 
per Grass," and the "Watercress." The 
latter can only be planted by the side 
of running water, or near springs. It 
is delicious. It is found all through 
the Louisiana forests, along the 
streams, especially in the vicinity of 
Abita Springs and Covington. 

CUCUMBER. 

Ooncomhre 
The Creoles hold, and justly, that 
the only proper way to eat a cucum- 
ber is "en salade." No fashionable 



Cucumbers as a Garnish 

Concomhrea Comme Oamiturea 

3 Fine Cucumbers. 
1 Tablespoonful of Vinegar. 1 Large 

Onion. 

Peel and slice three fine cucumbers, 
and then make a marinade of one tea- 
spoonful of vinegar, with one finely 
sliced onion. Let the cucumbers 
marinate in this for an hour, and then 
drain and use as a garnish for cold 
meats, especially cold Bouilli. 

CURRY 

KaH 
Curry is a condiment composed of 
pulverized Cayenne pepper, coriander 
seed, tumeric, onions, garlic, ginger 
root, cloves, cinnamon, cardamon and 
salt, all pulverized together and thor- 
oughly mixed. It is extensively used 
in the making of stews of fish, meats 
and some vegetables. 



202 



THE PICAYUX£ CREOLE COOK BOOK 



PANDEUONS. 

Dent-dC'Liona 
The Creoles long ago discovered the 
possibilities of the dandelion under 
cultivation, the wild dandelion, as all 
know, being a common, hardy peren- 
nial. It is found in great luxuriance 
in the Louisiana meadows and pas- 
tures, the deeply notched leaves close- 
ly resembling Chicor^e, so extensively 
used as a salad and as a green. 
Through cultivation the dandelion is 
now numbered among the best of the 
early spring salads! (For recipe for 
Dandelion Salad, see chapter on 
Salads. ) 

Dandelion Greens 
Dent-de-Liona Bouillle 

1 Quart of Dandelion Greens 

A Ham Shank 

1 Tablespoon ful of Butter. Salt and 

Pepper to Taste. 

Cut ofC the coarse roots; wash the 

leaves thoroughly; steep in salt and 

water for* five hours to remove the 

bitterness. Boil a ham shank for two 

hours, throw in the dandelions, and 

cook gently for forty-five minutes; 

then drain, chop fine; season with 

butter, pepper and salt. Mince the 

ham very fine and sprinkle over the 

grreens; spread over the top sliced 

hard-boiled eggs and serve hot. 

EGGPIiANTS 

Dea Auherginea 
This is one of our most esteemed 
and useful vegetables, and Is served 
In the following delightful ways: 

Stuffed Eggplant. 

Auherginea Farciea 

6 Eggplants of Good Size. 

lyk Cups of Bread, Wet and Squeezed. 

1 Tomato. 1 Onion. 1 Clove of 

Garlic. 

Thyme. Parsley, Bay Leaf. 

2 Tablespoon fuls of Butter. 
Cut the eggplant in two pieces, and 
put to boil in cold water for about 
half an hour, or until tender. Then 
take out of the water and set to cool. 
When cold, take out the seeds and 
throw them away. Then scoop out 
carefully the soft meat of the egg- 
plant, and leave the skins unbroken, 
setting them carefully aside. Chop 
the soft eggplant fine, and then wet 
and squeeze one and a half cups of 
bread. Chop the onion and tomato 
fine, and mince the herbs and garlic 
very fine. Season the eggplant well 
with salt and pepper. Put the butter 



In the frying pan (use a tablespoonfu] 
of lard. If you have not the butter), 
and brown the onion In It slightly. 
Then add the chopped tomato and its 
Juice, and let this fry for four or five 
minutes. Then add the minced herbs 
and the clove of garlic, and almost 
Immediately the chopped eggplant 
Then add the bread at once, and mix 
all well. Season again to taste, and 
let all fry for about five minutes. 
Take oft and fill the shells with the 
stufllng, sprinkle the top lightly with 
bread crumbs, dot with butter and set 
In the oven to bake to a nice brown. 

Fried Eggplant. 

Auterginea Fritea 

2 Young Eggplants. 2 Eggs. 

Flour to Make a Good Light Batter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Lard. 

Slice the eggplants very thin, par- 
ing them if large, and leaving the 
skin on if very young and tender. 
Make a light batter with the eggs and 
flour. Season the eggplant well with 
salt and pepper. Soak the slices in 
the batter. Lift out and fry in the 
boiling lard. When done on one side, 
turn on the other with a cake turner. 
Drain the fried eggplant on brown 
paper in the mouth of the oven, and 
serve hot on a flat dish or platter. 

Eggplant Fritters 

Auherginea eh Beigneta ou au Natural 

2 Young Egplants. Vi Pint of Milk. 
Salt and Pepper. Flour. 

Slice the eggplants evenly and thin. 
Roll them in milk in which you have 
put salt and pepper to taste. Pass the 
slices in sifted flour, very lightly, and 
fry in boiling lard. The eggplant 
must float In the lard. Drain on 
brown paper in the mouth of the 
oven, and serve hot. 

Stewed Eggplant. 

Auherginea d la Creole 

3 Eggplants. % Can of Tomatoes. 

1 Square Inch of Ham. 

2 Cloves of Garlic. 2 Onions. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. Salt and 

Pepper to Taste. 

Parboil the eggplant for about thir- 
ty minutes. Take out of the boiling 
water and let cool slightly. Then skin 
and cut into pieces half an inch 
square. Chop two onions very fine 
and brown them in a tablespoon of 
butter. As they brown, add half a 
can of tomatoes, or six fresh ones cut 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



203 



fine, the square inch of ham chopped 
very fine, then two cloves of grarlic, 
minced very fine, and season with salt 
and pepper to taste. Let this simmer 
for Uiree or four minutes, and then 
add the eggrplant sufficient to make 
a pound. Let all cook, smothering 
slowly, tightly covered, and stir them 
often to prevent burning. Season 
again to taste, cook for half an hour 
and serve very hot. 

ENDIVES 

De la OhicorSe 
Endive, or Chicor6e, is served both 
as a salad plant and as a vegetable. 
It is very popular among the Creoles, 
and is much cultivated for the mar- 
ket, especially for summer use. 
Chicor^e as a salad is served in ex- 
actly the same manner as Lettuce 
Salad. (See recipe under chapter on 
Salads. ) 

flndive With Cream Sancc 

Chicor6e, Sauce d la Crime 

2 Heads of Chicor^e. 4 Tablespoonfuls 

Butter. 

2 Glasses of Cream or Milk. 

A Pinch of Nutmeg. Salt and Pepper 

to Taste. 

Pick nicely three heads of Chlcor4e, 
casting away all the outer green 
leaves. Then wash the heads care- 
fully in fresh, cold water; drain and 
wash again, and blanch for ten min- 
utes in boiling salted water; take them 
out and put them in cold water. 
Then drain off all the water, and chop 
the Chicorfie very fine. Cook it slowly 
in a saucepan with four tablespoon- 
fuls of butter for a quarter of an 
hour. Pour two glasses of milk 
or rich cream over it; add a pinch of 
grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper 
to taste. Mix all thoroughly together 
for five minutes on the stove; then 
remove, put in a dish, garnish nicely 
with CroQtons fried in butter, and 
serve hot. 

Endives With Gravy 

Ohicor6e au Jua 

4 Heads of Chicor^e. 1 Onion. 1 Car* 

rot. 1 Herb Bouquet. 
14 Pound of Bacon. Salt and Pepper to 

Taste. 
1 Pint of Veal or Chicken Consomme 

Clean and pick the Chicor§e well, 
pare off all the outer leaves, and 
wash the heads well in several waters. 
Then drain and blanch them in salted 
water for ten minutes. At the end 



of this time throw them in the cold 
water to cool; drain and cut into 
quarters. Put the piece of bacon in 
the bottom of a sautoire or stewpan, 
and add an onion and carrot and herb 
bouquet, minced very fine. Lay the 
Chicor§e on top of this, season with 
a teaspoonful of salt and a half tea- 
spoonful of black pepper, and cover 
with a buttered paper. Then set the 
sautoire in the oven, and let the 
Chicorfee cook for ten minutes, when 
it will be a golden brown. Moisten 
with half a pint of veal or chicken 
consomm6, cover and again set in the 
oven for thirty minutes. At this point 
it will be ready to serve. Arrange the 
Chicorfie on a hot dish; strain the 
sauce, pour it over and serve. 

GARLIC. 

De I'Ail 
Garlic is a bulbous-rooted plant, 
of a strong penetrating odor, and is 
highly esteemed as a flavoring for 
soups, stews, roasts and various other 
dishes. Garlic is a staple product of 
the lower Louisiana parishes, being 
raised for home consumption and for 
shipping. More garlic is grown and 
used in Louisiana than in all the other 
states together. It is cultivated like 
the onion. In the spring the bulbs 
are taken up and plaited together in 
long strings. One of these strings 
contains from fifty to sixty heads in 
double rows. They are then hung 
up in a dry, airy place, or stored 
away. They will keep from six to 
eight months. Great strings of garlic 
adorn the stalls of the French Mar- 
ket all the time. 

HORSERADISH 

Raifort 

The roots of the horseradish are 
extensively used as an appetizer. They 
are an agreeable relish, with a fine, 
sharp, pungent taste. Scraped and 
grated very fine, and set on the table 
in small cups, they are used as a con- 
diment. In cookery, the horseradish 
is excellent in the preparation of 
sauces and salads. 

KOHLRABI, on TURNIP-ROOTED 

CABBAGE 

Ohou-Navet 
This vegetable is used in making 
soup purees or vegetable purees, and 
is also prepared in the same manner 



204 



TH£ PICAYUNE CREX>LE COOK BOOK 



as cauliflower. (See recipes Purees 
and also Cauliflower.) The finest va- 
riety, the ''Early White Vienna/' is 
the only kind ever grown and sold in 
New Orleans. It is an excellent table 
veeretable, very popular among the 
Italian and other European popula- 
tion of the city especially, and is very 
largely cultivated. 

liEEKS 

Poireaux 
This popular vegetable is a species 
of onion, highly esteemed for flavor- 
ing soups, etc. It is used altogether 
as a seasoning. 

IjENTIIjS 

Dea LentUles 
Lentils are among the most nutri- 
tious of all vegetables. They may be 
made into a pur^e (see recipe under 
chapter on Soups), or may be cooked 
in every manner in which red and 
white beans are cooked. On Fridays 
and fast days they are simply boiled 
over a slow fire, with a little butter, 
salt and pepper, and a bouquet of 
parsley, and an onion cut in quarters. 
Again, the Creoles cook Lentils with 
sausage, or Chaurice. Still again, they 
are simply boiled in salt and water, 
and served with a Sauce & la Vinai- 
grette, Sauce Soubise, or a Sauce & la 
Mattre d'Hotel. (See recipes.) 

MUSHROOMS 

Des Champignons 
Mushrooms constitute one of the 
greatest flavoring vegetables known to 
the scientific cuisinier. They are used 
in all manner of sauces, and are con- 
sidered quite necessary and invalu- 
able when veal, game or fish are 
cooked "en brais6" or "en saut6." 
They are used in "matelotes," and in 
nearly all forms of farcies. The 
Oeoles, like the French, think it a 
crime to cook this vegetable in any 
form that would destroy its own pe- 
culiar flavor. 

Stewed Mushrooms on Toast. 

Champignons BauHs sur Canapts 

1 Piftt of Muahrooms. 
Tablespoonful of Butter. The Juice of 

1 Lemon. 

1 Teaapoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

6 Slices of Toast. 

Drain the mushrooms of their 

liquor, and place in a stewpan with 



the butter; season to taste with sait 
and pepper; cover and let them cook 
for ten minutes, tossing almost con- 
stantly. Add the Juice of a lemon and 
the chopped parsley. Place six slices 
of toast on a dish, garnish these nicely 
with the mushrooms and serve. The 
toast may be omitted if it is desired 
simply to stew the mushrooms and 
use them as a vegetable. 

Mushrooms With Cream 

Champignons SauHs d la Crhne 

1 Pint Mushrooms. 1 Tablespoonful 

Butter. 

H Cup of Cream. 

The Tolk of 1 Egg. 1 Tablespoonful 

Flour. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Let the mushroms with their Juice 
simmer for fifteen minutes in a sauce- 
pan, porcelain-lined or agate. Then 
add one tablespoonful of butter, 
blended well with the same amount 
of flour, and mixed thoroughly with 
the cream. Season with salt and 
pepper. Stir well. Bring them to 
a good boil, remove from the fire, 
and stir in the yolk of an egs. which 
has been beaten. Serve immediately 
in a very hot dish or bowl. 

To stew c mned mushrooms, drain 
them of their liquor. Melt the butter 
in a porcelain-lined saucepan, and 
gradually add the flour, without let- 
ting it burn. Blend smoothly. Add 
the boiling milk, and let it boll for 
about two minutes. Then add the 
mushrooms, salt and pepper to taste. 
Remove from the fire after five min- 
utes. Serve on buttered toast or 
Crodtons fried in butter. Again, the 
milk may be om.ltted, and the mush- 
rooms stewed in their own liquor. 

Stewed Muslirooms, Spanish Style 

Champignons Sautis a VEspagnole 

1 Pint or 1 Can of Mushrooms. 

1 Tablespoonful of Olive Oil. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Teaspoonful of Chives. 

1 Dozen Whole Peppers. 

Salt and Black Pepper to Taste. 

Drain the mushrooms of their 
liquor; cut them in lozenge-shaped 
pieces, and put them in a dish and 
sprinkle with a tablespoonful of olive 
oil, and salt and pepper to taste. Let 
them soak in this marinade for fully 
two hours. Then take them out and 
put them in a saucepan and let them 
stew for tep minutes. Make a sauce 



THE PICAYUNE CUEOLE COOK BOOK 



205 



of three tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 
the clove of garlic, minced fine, and 
a tablespoonful of minced chives, and 
blend well. Add this to the mush- 
roms and let them saut4 for five min- 
utes longer on a very slow fire, with- 
out boiling, and serve hot. 

Fried Mushrooms 

Champignons d la BordelaUe 

1 Pint Mushrooms. 1 Tablespoonful 

Olive Oil. 

6 Shallots. Minced Very Fine. 

Thyme, Parsley and Bay Lieaf. Minced 

I' ine. 

1 Clove of Garlic. Minced Fine. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Put the oil into a frying pan, and, 
when heated, add the shallots, minced 
very fine. Let these brown slightly, 
and add the minced garlic and fine 
herbs. Let these brown for three min- 
utes or so, and then add the mush- 
rooms. Stir well and fry for about 
five minutes. Serve the mushrooms 
on slices of French toast. 



MUSTARD GREEXS. 

De la Moutarde 
Mustard is grown extensively in 
Louisiana, especially the large-leaved 
or curled variety, which is now a dis- 
tinctly Louisiana product, quite differ- 
ent from the European kind. The seed 
is black, and is raised in Louisiana, 
and the plant is being more extensive- 
ly cultivated every year. The large 
leaves are cooked exactly as Spin- 
ach (see recipe), or they may be 
boiled with salt meat and served as 
greens. 

OKRA 

Du Fivi 
Okra is a great summer dish with 
the Creoles. It may be made into 
Gumbo (see recipe Okra Gumbos), 
or boiled and served en salade. 

Boiled Okra 

Fivi Bouitti 

1 Quart Young Okra. 1 Tablespoonful 

Vinegar. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wash the okra well in cold water, 
and put in a porcelain-lined or agate 
saucepan. Add a pint of water and 
a teaspoonful cC salt. Cover the pot, 
and let the okra simmer for about 
half an hour. Take from the pot, 
season with salt and pepper to taste, 
pour over it a tablespoon of Tarra- 



gon vinegar and set to cool. Serve as 
a salad, and with all meats, such as 
daube, roast, etc. 

Stewed Okra, Creole Style 

F6vi 8autd d la Creole 

4 Dozen Okra. 1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

8 Nice Potatoes. 1 Onion. 

1 Oreen Pepper. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

1 Teaspoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

Wash the okra and pare the ends. 
Put it in a saucepan with one table- 
spoonful of butter; add a finely 
minced onion, clove of garlic an<l 
green pepper. Let these cook for six 
or eight minutes, and then add the 
three tomatoes, chopped fine; and, 
also the Juice of the tomatoes. Sea- 
son to taste with salt and pepper; add 
a dash of Cayenne and a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley. Now add the 
okra and let all simmer slowly for 
twenty minutes. Place in a hot, deep 
serving dish, cover and send to the 
table. 

ONIONS 

De I'Oignons 
Onions have always been conceded 
by scientists to be among the most 
healthful of foods. The onion is, be- 
sides, indispensable in the kitchen. It 
is used in almost every kind of meat 
and fish or vegetable seasoning, and 
imparts a flavor that cannot be yield- 
ed by any other vegetable. Onions 
are also widely known as great seda- 
tives. Onion juice, mixed with sugar, 
is largely used by the old Creoles in 
coughs and colds, and is almost an 
infallible remedy. The onion is used 
as a salad, or it may be cooked in 
some very delightful ways. There are 
those who object to eating onions 
on account of the odor that clings to 
the breath, especially in eating raw 
onion in salad. This should never 
interfere with the use of a vegetable 
that carries within it important chem- 
ical juices that are so helpful in the 
upbuilding of the general system. A 
glass of milk, immediately after eat- 
ing a raw onion, will, it is said, de- 
stroy every particle of odor or taste 
that remains in the mouth. 

Boiled Onions 

Oignons Bouillis 

1 Dozen Nice. Small White Onions 

1 Tablespoonful Butter 

Salt and Pepper to Taste 

Throw the onions in their skins into 
cold water, and peel them. Then put 



206 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



them .into a saucepan of boiling water. 
Add a teaspoonful of salt, and let 
them boil about forty minutes, or un- 
til you can pierce them easily with a 
fork. Put them into a dish and drain 
ofC all water.' Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper to taste, pour over them a 
Drawn Butter Sauce (see Beurre d. la 
Mattre d'Hotel), and serve hot. The 
large Spanish onions will require 
about an hour longer to boil tender. 

Creamed Onions. 

Oignons d la Crdtne 

1 Dozen Small, White Onions. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoon- 

ful Flour. % Pint of Milk or Cream. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the onions as directed in the 
above recipe. When very tender, take 
off the fire and drain. Pour over them 
the following cream sauce, which you 
will have prepared when almost ready 
to serve: Put one tablespoonful of 
flour into a saucepan, and add a table- 
spoonful of butter. Set on the flre, 
and let all blend well together, rub- 
bing very smooth, without browning. 
Then add half a pint of milk. Stir 
continually till it boils. Season with 
salt and pepper to taste, pour it 
over the onions, and serve hot. The 
young onions are delicious when pre- 
pared in this manner. 

Fried Onions 

Oignona FriU 

% Dozen Nice, Tender Onions. 
1 Tablespoonful Butter. 1 Tablespoon- 
I ful Salt. Pepper to Taste. 

Throw the onions into cold water. 
Peel them, and cut them into thin 
slices. Cover them with boiling wa- 
ter, and let them cook about twenty 
minutes. Drain off the water thor- 
oughly, and put them into a frying 
pan with a large tablespoonful of but- 
ter, season well, to taste and let them 
fry slowly for about ten minutes. 
Turn frequently, to prevent them 
from burning. Again, the onions may 
be fried without previous boiling, 
some preferring this latter method, as 
it allows the onion to retain its 
flavor. Simply peel and pare and 
slice into round-shaped pieces. Lay 
the pieces in milk, and then in grated 
bread crumbs or flour, and fry them 
in boiling fat for about ten minutes. 
Lift them out of the fat, drain well, 
and serve on a hot dish with fried 
parsley as a garnish. Toung shallots 



may be fried by washing well in cold 
water, cutting off the rough ^oots, and 
then neatly slicing the green a.nd 
white together into half-inch dice. 
Season well with salt and pepper, and 
fry in butter for about five minutes. 
Garnish a dish with parsley sprigs. 
Lay the shallots on these and serve 
hot 

Smothered Onions 

Oionons Saut6s 

1 Dozen Small Oniona 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Quart of 
Broth. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Put the onions into cold water, and 
remove their skins. Then put them 
into a saucepan, cover them with a 
soup stock (pot-au-feu or bouillon), if 
you have it, otherwise use water, and 
let them stew slowly for a hour and 
a half, till they are almost falling to 
pieces. Then drain the onions througli 
a colander, and save the stock. Put 
a* tablespoonful of butter into a frying 
pan, and add a tablespoonful of flour, 
and make a Brown Roux. (See rec- 
ipe.) When brown, add a half pint 
of the broth in which the onions were 
boiled. Season well with salt and pep- 
per and a dash of Cayenne. Put the 
onions into this and let them simmer 
gently for about twenty minuter 
longer. Serve hot. 



Stuffed Onions 

OignotiB FarcU 

H Dozen Large Spanish Onions. 

A Stuffing of Chaurice. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Put a half dozen fine, large Span- 
ish onions in hot ashes to roast. When 
they are sufliciently cooked, which 
will be in about half an hour, dust 
them off and peel well. Then open 
the interiors and fill with a stufllng 
made as follows: Put a tablespoonful 
of butter in a frying pan, and 
add three Chaurices, which you have 
taken out of the casings and chopped 
finely again. Add a cup of bread, 
which has been wet and squeezed, 
and mix well. Then add an inch 
of ham, finely chopped, and a 
sprig each of thyme and parsley and 
sweet marjoram, and one bay leaf, all 
finely minced. Season with salt and 
pepper to taste. Fry about fifteen 
minutes, and then stuff the onions as 
far down in the center as possible, 
and between the folds. Sprinkle the 
onions with sifted bread crupabs, and 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



207 



put a little dot of butter on top of 
each. Set in the oven and let them 
bake for about thirty or forty min- 
utes. Serve with roast beef. 

Another nice way of stufflngr onions 
Is to peel them, scoop out the deep 
centers with a veg:etable scoop, par- 
boil them for ten minutes, and then 
fill the insides with the sausage force- 
meat, as directed above. . Line the 
bottom of a stewpan with fine strips 
of bacon. Lay over these an onion 
and a carrot, both minced very fine. 
Place the onions on top of this and 
moisten with a pint of Chicken or 
Veal Consomme. Set in the oven to 
bake for about three-quarters of an 
hour and baste frequently. Serve In 
a hot dish, with the sauce poured 
over them. 

Baked Onions 

Oignona Rdtis 

1 Dozen Largre Spanish Onions. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Trim the onions nicely, but do not 
peel them. Then put them into a 
kettle of boilingr water, and let them 
cook rapidly for about an hour. Drain 
in a colander. Then put them in a 
baking pan, and let them bake slowly 
for about an hour. Take them out, 
peel them, place them in a vege- 
table dish, and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and serve with Drawn Butter 
Siiuce. (See Buerre d. la Maltre 
d'Hotel.) 

After taking the onions out of the 
boiling water, if you wish to serve 
"Roast Beef aux Oignons," peel the 
onions and place them around the 
beef roast in the oven. Baste them as 
often as you baste the roast, with the 
juices that come from it. Serve with 
the roast, using them as a garnish 
around the dish. 

Glazed Onions 

Oignona Qlacts 

1% Dozen Small Oniona of Uniform 

Size. 

1 Tablespoon ful Sugar. 1 Cup Water. 

1 Large Teaspoonful Butter. 

Salt to Taste. 

Select small onions of uniform size, 
top the heads and the stems, and 
remove the skins, but not too closely, 
lest they should break up when boil- 
ing. Put a heaping tablespoon of but- 
ter in a frying pan, large enough 
for the onions to lie in it, side 
by side, and when melted add the 
onions. Then sprinkle with the sugar 



and water, and season with salt to 
taste. Set on a very slow fire, where 
they can simmer gently for an hour. 
When nearly done, and tender all 
through, add a tablespoonful of flour, 
mixed in water, blended well. Then 
set in the oven, with a paper on top. 
Let them stand for about half an 
hour, and use as a garnish for beef, 
veal, etc. The onions will be nicely 
glazed, and will make the dish appear 
very beautiful. 

SHALLOTS 

^chalotteB 
Shallots are small-sized onions, 
grown in clumps. They are very 
delicate and mild in flavor, and much 
used in soups, stews, salads, etc. In 
the green state they are also chopped 
and fried in butter. (See recipe Fried 
Onions. ) 

PARSLEY 

PerHl 
Parsley is one of the most impor- 
tant of all vegetable herbs, entering, 
as it does into the seasoning of soups, 
meats, fish and even vegetables. It 
is one of the most beautiful of all 
garnishes, and gives a pretty touch 
to the homeliest dish. The "Plain- 
Leaved," the "Double Curled" or the 
"Beautiful Garnish" varieties are al- 
ways to be found in the New Orleans 
market. 

Fried Parsley 

Perail Frit 

6 or 8 Sprig's of Parsley. 
1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

Pick off the delicate leaves and 

branches of very young parsley, wash 

well, drain and put in a frying pan, 

in which there is a tablespoonful of 

rather hot lard. Pry slowly and drain 

and use as a garnish or in any desired 

recipe. 

Chopped Parsley 

PerM HacM 
Wash the parsley in cold water, 
trim off the coarse stems and branches 
and leaves, immerse in very cold wa- 
ter again, drain, press dry and chop 
very fine. Use as needed. 

Parsley Green. 

Perail au Ju9 
Take young parsley, wash well, 
strip of all coarse stems and branches, 
plunge into very cold water, chop very 



20S 



THE PICAYl'NE CREOLE COOWL BOOK 



fine, squeeze in a strong kitchen towel 
and save the juice for coloring pur- 
poses. 

Parsley for Garnishing Purposes. 

Garniture tie Pcrsil 
Take several bunches of fresh pars- 
ley, trim off all the coarse stems, wash 
in slightly salted water, drain- and 
place in a colander. Set over a water- 
tight vessel. Shave some ice, cover 
the parsley with it and let It keep 
fresh and cool for table garnishes. 
Never lay parsley that Is Intended for 
garnishing purposes in water, as the 
freshness will be quickly destroyed, 
and It will become dark, discolored, 
limp and slimy, quite devoid of all 
beauty or crlspness. 

PARSNIPS 

De8 Panais 

6 or 8 Parsnips. 

% Pint of Sauce & la Maltre d'Hotel. 

To boll parsnips. If they are young, 
simply scrape them and lay them In 
cold water. If the parsnips are old, 
pare them and cut them In quarters, 
or, better still, lengthwise. Let the 
young parsnips cook In salted boiling 
water In a porcelaln-llned saucepan 
for forty-flve minutes; the older 
ones require an hour and a quarter. 
When done, take them out of the 
saucepan, drain and serve hot on a 
heated dish with a Drawn Butter 
Sauce. (See Beurre a. la Mattre 
d'Hotel. ) 

Boiled Parsnips Willi Cream Sauce 

Panais BouUlis d la Crdme 
6 or 8 Parsnips. A Cream Sauce. 
Proceed exactly as above in peeling 
and boiling the parsnips. When done, 
drain and put Into a heated dish, and 
serve with a Cream Sauce poured over 
them. (See recipe Cream Sauce.) 
ITse the parsnips with boiled salt fish, 
fresh fish, or boiled corn beef. 

Fried Parsnips. 

Panala Frita 

5 Parsnips. 1 Tablespoonful Butter. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Drippings of Roast 

Beef. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Chopped Parsley to Garnish, 

Brush and scrape or peel the pars- 
nips as directed above, and boll them 
in salted water until quite tender. 



When done, drain off the water and 
cut the parsnips lengrthwise into slices 
of about half an inch in thick- 
ness. Put two tablespoonfuls of the 
drippings of the roast beef in the 
saucepan, and add a teaspoonful of 
butter. When hot add the sliced pars- 
nips. When they are brown on one 
side, turn on the other and let this 
brown also. Place on a hot platter, 
sprinkle with chopped parsley and 
salt and pepper, and serve with roast 
meats. 

Smothered Parsnips 

Panaia 8aut6a 

6 or 8 Parsnips. 2 Tablespoonfuls of 

Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 

Boil the parsnips as directed, and 
cut them into strips half ah inch wide. 
Put a big cooklngspoonful of butter 
Into the saucepan, and add the pars- 
nips. Sprlnkla well with salt and pep- 
per. Cover and let them fry, but only 
slightly brown on either side. Serve 
with chopped parsley as a garnish. 



Mashed Parsnips 

Pur6e dc Panais 

6 or 8 Parsnips. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 
1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 1 Pint of 

Milk. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the parsnips until so tender 
that they break easily under pressure. 
Then mash them well, after draining 
off all water. Put a tablespoonful of 
butter in a saucepan, and add a table- 
spoonful of flour. Blend, without 
browning, and add a half pint of milk 
or cream. Stir well, and as^the mix- 
ture begins to boll, add the parsnips. 
Mix thoroughly, season with salt and 
pepper, and serve In a dish, heaping 
up the parsnips in pyramidal shape. 
Serve with veal cutlets. 



Parsnip Fritters 

Beigneta de Panais 

6 Parsnips. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Cup of Water. 2 Eggs. 

% Pound of Flour. 1 Teaspoonful of 

Salt. 
1 Teaspoonful of Pepper. 

Boll the parsnips as directed above 
till very tendei;. Cut them into long, 
narrow strips. Make a batter by mix- 
ing the flour with the yolks of the 



THE PICAYUNE CREOUE COOK BOOK 



209 



eergs, beaten well. Then add the salt 
stud pepper, and gradually one cup 
of water, till it is absorbed. Then add 
t.lie whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth. Mix thoroughly. Add the 
parsnips to the batter. Dip out one 
at a time in a buttered spoon, and 
fry in boiling lard. Serve as an en- 
tree at dinner. 



Parsnip Balls 

Boulettes de Panais 

8 Large Parsnips. 2 Eggs. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the parsnips as directed above, 
until very, very tender. Then drain 
and mash through a colander. Beat 
two eggs very light, and add the pars- 
nips. Then form the mixture into 
little balls or boulettes, and fry in 
boiling lard, or make into little cakes 
and fry on a griddle. 



PEAS 

Des Pois 8ec9 
All dried, split, kidney, or black- 
eyed peas may be cooked in the same 
manner as beans. (See recipe.) 

GREEN PEAS 

Lea Poi8 Verts 
Green peas are abundant in our 
New Orleans market, with two full 
crops, the spring and the fall. The 
larger, or older peas are called "Les 
Pois Verts," and the smaller, or 
French peas, "Les Petits Pois." The 
latter are great delicacies when boiled 
and served with butter; the former 
may be utilized in making that most 
delectable dish, "Pur6e des Pols 
Verts. (See recipe in chapter on 
Soups. ) 

To Cook Canned Grccm Peas 

Petits Pois en Conserve 
The many delightful brands of 
French peas that come put up in cans 
do not require much cooking, being, 
like all canned vegetables, already 
cooked. To prepare these, drain 
them carefully after opening the can, 
and put them in a saucepan; add a 
tablespoonful of butter and pepper 
and salt to taste. Set on the fire, and, 
when thoroughly heated, serve imme- 
diately. Green peas are served with 
all roasted, broiled and saut6d meats, 



fowls or game. There is scarcely a 
vegetable that can be so v&riously 
used with entries. 

Boiled Green Peas 

Petit Pois au Naturel 

1 Pint of Fresh Young Green Peas. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Shell the peas, and when you have 
a pint (sufficient for six), put the 
peas into cold water, dr&in, and put 
into a saucepan of boiling water; add 
a teaspoonful of salt to prevent the 
peas from cracking, and let them boil 
rapidly for at least twenty minutes. 
To ascertain if they are done, take 
one out and press with a fork. The 
secret of cooking green peas prop- 
erly is to have plenty of water so they 
may boil very rapidly, and not to 
let them boil a moment longer than 
necessary, so as to keep them from 
being soggy and to preserve their 
fresh color and sweetness. Fresh 
peas should never be shelled until the 
very moment you wish to boll them. 
When cooked, they must be eaten im- 
mediately. As soon as done, drain off 
all water; put a large tablespoonful 
of butter into the saucepan with the 
peas, season with pepper to taste, 
pour into a vegetable dish and serve 
hot. This is the very nicest way of 
cooking this dainty vegetable. 

As the peas grow older and larger, 
they may be made into purees, or 
cooked as follows: 



Green Peas k la Bourgeolse 

Pois Verts 8aut6s d la Bourgeoise 

1 Pint of Peas. 
1^ Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Ounce of Chopped Onion. 

1 Herb Bouquet. Minced Fine. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

% Pint of Cream or Milk or Water. 

Shell and boil the peas according to 
the above recipe. Add sprigs of pars- 
ley, thyme and bay leaf, finely minced. 
When done, which will be in about 
forty minutes, if the peas are large, or 
perhaps a few minutes longer (easily 
ascertained by taking out a pea and 
pressing it with a fork), drain off all 
water and add one tablespoonful and 
a half of butter. Then blend the flour, 
and add the milk, mixing carefully 
together and stirring well, to prevent 
browning or burning. Serve hot. 
Some add the yolk of an egg, well 
beaten, after taking the peas off the 



210 



THE PICAYLITE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



fire, but this is a matter of taste; the 
flavor of the peas is more delicate 
without it. 

Green Peas, Country Style 

PetiU Pois Verts d la Payaanne 

1 Pint of Green Peas. 3 Small Carrots. 

^ of a Head of Green and White 

Cabbage. 

A Tablespoonful of Butter. 

% Pint of Con.somm6 of Veal or 

Chicken. 

Salt send Pepper to Taste. 

Shell the peas; take three small 
carrots, and one-eight of a head of 
cabbage, and one-quarter head of let- 
tuce, and cut Into small dice-shaped 
pieces. Put a tablespoonful of butter 
in a saucepan and let the dice-shaped 
vegetables smother for about fifteen 
minutes over a slow fire without 
browning. Add the green peas and 
the consommS, and let all cook for 
a half hour, stirring frequently to 
prevent burning. Season to taste with 
salt and pepper, and use a sprinkling 
of chopped parsley as a garnish. 

Green Peas, French Style 

Petit Pois Vcrta d la Francaise 

1 Pint of Fresh Green Peas or 1 Can. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. V4 Cup of 

Water. 
1 Herb Bouquet. 1 Lettuce Heart. 

1 Onion. 

1 Teaspoon of Powdered Sugar. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Shell the peas and wash and drain 
them. Put them Into a saucepan, 
with one tablespoonful of butter; add 
the herb bouquet, the onion whole, 
and the lettuce heart, and cover with 
cold water, and let them simmer 
slowly for about twenty minutes, or 
until tender. Then drain off the wa- 
ter, remove the onion and herb bou- 
quet, lay the lettuce heart on a dish, 
and add another tablespoonful of but- 
ter to the peas. Let them cook for 
five minutos longer. Pour the peas 
over the lettuce heart, send to the 
table hot, and serve with chops or 
cutlets as a vegetable. 

Green Peas, Old Creole Style 

Pctits Poia Verta d VAncienne Mode Oriole 

1 Pint of Young Green Peas. 
3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. % Cup of 

Cream. 

The Yolk of 1 Egg. 

1 Teaspoonful of Powdered Sugar. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Shell and clean the peas carefully. 
Put thexn In a saucepan with three 



tablespoonfuls of butter, and cover 
with a cup of water; season with a 
pinch of salt, and let them cook for 
twenty minutes, or until tender. Beat 
three tablespoonfuls of cream till 
mixed with the yolk of an egg. add a 
half pinch of w^hite pepper, and mix 
thoroughly with the peas. Add a tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar, stir well, 
and let all cook together for five min- 
utes and serve hot. 



Par6e of Green Peas, Creole Style 

Pur6e de Poia Verta d la Creole 

1 Pint of Green Peas. 1 Cup of Milk 

or Cream. 

A Pinch of Salt and White 

Pepper. 

1 Teaspoonful of Powdered Sugar. 

Shell and clean the peas well; then 
put them in a saucepan with the 
cream and a half cup of water, and 
let them simmer till they become 
quite soft. Then remove the pan from 
the fire; rub the peas through a fine 
sieve; season well with the salt and 
pepper and sugar; add a tablespoon- 
ful of butter, beating It in erradually 
with the peas; set on the stove for 
five minutes and serve hot. Peas thus 
prepared are served as a vegetable 
with entries and other meats. 



Pur6e of Green Peas & la St. Germain 

Purie de Poia Verta d la 8t. Oermaim 

1 Pint of Green Peas. 1 Pint or 

Chicken Broth. 

1 Pint of Sweet Cream. 

1 Herb Bouquet. 

2 Sprigs of Mint. 

A Pinch Each of Salt and White 

Pepper. 

1 Teaspoonful of Powdered Sugar. 

8 Chicken Quenelles to Garnish. 

Shell and clean the peas and put 
them in a saucepan or sautoire, add- 
ing one pint of chicken broth and 
one pint of sweet cream. Add an 
herb bouquet, in which you have tied 
two sprigs of fresh mint. Let the peas 
cook for twenty minutes, or until very 
tender, and then remove the herb 
bouquet and mint; take from the fire, 
and run the peas through a sieve. 
Season with salt and pepper and a 
little powdered sugar; add a table- 
spoonful of butter; set on the fire five 
minutes longer, and then serve on 
a hot dish with Chicken Quenelles 
(see recipe) to garnish. Make the 
quenelles from the chicken left over 
from a broth. Serve as an entree. 



THE. PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



211 



POTATOES. 

Dc8 PommcB de Terre 
Potatoes may be cooked in a 
greater variety of ways than any 
other vegetable. They are nutritious 
and are always economical as well as 
palatable. 

Steamed Potatoes. 

Pommes dc Tcrrc A la Vapeur 

8 ^\ce Potatoes. 
A Pot of Boiling Water. Salt. 

Wash the potatoes well, scrubbing 
thoroughly, to take off every particle 
of dirt. Then put them In a potato 
steamer, over a pot of boiling water, 
cover tight and steam till you can 
pierce them with a fork. When done, 
remove the jackets, and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper; add a tablespoonful 
of butter mixed with chopped parsley; 
and serve immediately. Or they may 
be served just as they are, in a cov- 
ered dish. A potato should always 
be mealy, and not sogged with water, 
if cooked properly. In cooking pota- 
toes the time depends on the size of 
the potato. An unfailing test is to 
cook till the potato can be easily 
pierced with a fork. 

Boiled Potatoes. 

Pommea de Tcrre au Naturel. 

6 Potatoes, of Uniform Size, if Possible. 
Boiling Water. 

Potatoes should always be boiled 
in their skins, or jackets, if possible. 
Never be guilty of paring a new po- 
tato before boiling. Towards the 
close of winter, just before the new 
crop comes in, the potatoes may be 
pared, so that blemishes may be re- 
moved; but this is scarcely neces- 
sary unless the old potatoes have 
sprouted and shriveled. 

Wash and scrub the potatoes well, 
and put them on in their jackets in 
a pot of boiling water, which has been 
well salted. Let them cook until they 
are soft enough to be pierced with a 
fork. Do not let them remain a mo- 
ment longer, or they will become 
watery and nothing is more disagree- 
able than a wet, soggy potato. When 
done, take them out and drain dry. 
Put them in a steamer, sprinkle with 
salt, cover, and let them stand over 
the kettle (lid open) on the fire for 
a few minutes, for them to dry out 
well. After five minutes take off, peel 
quickly, and serve in a covered vege- 
table dish. 



Potatoes With Drawn Butter. 

Pommes de Terre au*Beurre Mattre 
d'HCtel. 

6 Potatoes. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. Salt and 

Pepper. 

Boil the potatoes according to the 
above recipe. Peel them and pour 
over them a tablespoonful of melted 
butter, mixed with some chopped 
parssley. Salt and pepper to taste. 
Potatoes prepared in this way are 
delicious. 

Or, if you wish to have mashed 
potatoes, or a "Pur6e of Potatoes," as 
a vegetable, mash the potatoes well, 
and add two tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Salt and pepper to taste. Place in a 
dish, mold prettily, and serve hot with 
meats, fish, poultry, etc. A half cup 
of milk or cream may be added to 
the pur6o with very delicious results. 
(For Pur6e of Potatoes as soup, see 
recipe under heading Soups.) 

Creamed Potatoes. 

Pommes de Tern- d la Crdme 
6 Potatoes. A Cream Sauce. 
Boil the potatoes as above, and 
pour over them (remembering al- 
ways to keep them whole) a Cream 
Sauce. (See recipe.) Serve hot with 
fried chicken. Add the juice of a 
lemon. 

Potatoes h la Mattre d'HoteL 

Pommea de Terre d la MaUre d'lldtel 
6 Potatoes. Sauce & la Maltre d'Hotel. 

Boil the potatoes whole, according 
to recipe, and serve hot, with a Sauce 
a la Maltre d'Hotel poured over them. 

Potato Ptiffs. 

Pommea de Tcrre Souffl^ea d la Creole 
2 Cups of Cold Mashed Potatoes. 

2 Eggs. 3 Tablespoonfuls of Cream or 

Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

This Is a nice way to utilize left- 
over potatoes. Mash the potatoes 
well, and put them into a frying pan 
with the butter. Add the yolks of two 
eggs well beaten, stir well, and 
add almost immediately the cream. 
I-.et it get very hot, stirring all the 
time. Then take the potatoes from 
the fire, and add the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Butter 
a baking dish or biscuit pan, and fill 
with the mixture. Let it bake In a 
quick oven till brown. 



212 



TH£ PICAYUNE CREX>IiE COOK BOOK 



Potato Snow. 

Pommes dc Terre d la Neige 
6 Potatoes. Salt to Taste. 
Boil the potatoes with their jackets 
on. Then peel them and. set them 
over a very low fire, to evaporate all 
the water. Sprinkle them lightly 
with salt. Then rub them through a 
sieve or colander. Let the potato fall 
in light, flaky drops, like snow flakes, 
never touching them as they fall. 
Serve on the dish in which the flakes 
are lying. 

Potatoes au Gratin. 

Pommeg de Tcrre au Oratin 

5 Cold Boiled Potatoes. 
% Pint of Cream. 2 Tablespoonfuls of 

Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 

Z% Heaping Tablespoonfuls of Gruy^re 

or Parmesan Cheese. 

The Yolks of 4 Eggs. 

% Pint of Consomm6 or Water. 

Salt and Cayenne to Taste. 

Put the butter in the frying pan. 
and as it melts, add the flour, and let 
it blend, rubbing smooth, without 
browning. Then add the consomm6 
or water and the cream, and stir con- 
stantly till the mixture boils. Then 
take the saucepan from the fire, and 
add the cheese, well grated and the 
well-beaten yolks of the eggs. Salt 
and pepper to taste. Beat all thor- 
oughly till light. Mash the potatoes 
well, and place, first, a layer of the 
sauce in the pan, and then one of 
the potatoes, and so on till the sauce 
forms the top layer. Sprinkle this 
lightly with bread crumbs, and set in 
the oven and let bake ten minutes. 
When it comes to a nice brown, serve 
in the dish in which it was baked. 



Potato Croquettes. 

Pommet de Terre en Croquettes 

2 Cups of Mashed Potatoes. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Cream. 

1 Tablespoonful of Onion Juice. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 1 Ounce of 

Butter. 

The Yolks of 2 Eggs. A Dash of 

Cayenne. 

Beat the yolks to a cream and add 
them to the potatoes. Mix well and 
then add the cream and all the other 
ingredients. Mix well, and put into 
a saucepan over the fire, stirring 
until the mixture leaves the side of 
the vessel. Take off the fire, and set 
to cool. When cold, shape into cyl- 



inders about two and a half inches 
in length and one in width. Roll first 
in a beaten egg, to bind, and then 
in bread crumbs, and fry to a golden 
brown in boiling lard. (See ireneral 
directions for frying.) When done, 
lift out of the lard with a ski miner, 
and drain on brown paper in the 
mouth of the oven. Serve for break- 
fast, or as a garnish for meats. Util- 
ize left-over potatoes in this way. 
Serve with fish, fried, broiled or 
baked. 

Boulettes are prepared in exactly 
the same manner, only thyme and 
bay leaf, minced very fine, are added 
and the potatoes are formed into 
balls, or boulettes. Boulettes are 
eaten more generally at breakfast, 
and croquettes at dinner, especially 
with fish. 

Potato Souffle. 

Pommes de Terre en SouJBHC: 

2 Cups of Mashed Potatoes. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Melted Butter. 

2 Eggs. 

% Cup of Cream. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Mash the potatoes well, pressing 
them through a colander. Then add 
the butter, and beat till smooth and 
light. Add the cream and the well- 
beaten yolks of the eggs, and salt 
and pepper to taste. Next add the 
whites, which must be beaten to a 
stiff froth. Then heap this into a 
dish, leaving the mound rough and 
uneven, so that the dish will look 
pretty with the tips nicely browned. 
Set in the oven and bake to a beauti- 
ful brown, and serve in the dish in 
which it was baked. 

Scalloped potatoes are cooked in 
the same manner, only the potatoes 
are cut into dice, a Cream Sauce is 
made, and a layer of potatoes and a 
layer of the sauce is put into a pan 
or shells, and then alternate layers, 
with a layer of sauce on top. Sprinkle 
lightly with bread crumbs, and serve 
in the shells or in the dish in which 
it was baked. 



French Pried Potatoes. 

Pommes de Tcrre d la Francaiae 

6 Potatoes. Boiling Lard. 
Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 

Peel the potatoes and cut them into 
three-inch dice, or sections like an 
orange. Have ready a frying pan of 
very hot, boiling lard, and let them 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



213 



fry to a srolden yellow or brown. Do 
toot burn. Take them out with a 
skimmer, and drain in a heated col- 
ander. Stand the colander in the 
mouth of the oven while you fry the 
rest of the potatoes. When done, 
sprinkle with salt, garnish with 
chopped parsley and serve hot. 

Julienne Potatoes. 

Pommes de Terre d la Julienne 
4 Potatoes. Boiling Lard. 
Peel and cut the potatoes into long, 
thin strips. Then fry in boiling lard 
(ind serve. 

Potato Chips. 

Pommea de Terrc Frites. 

Z Potatoes. Boiling Lard. 

Parsley Sprigs to Garnish. 

Slice two medium-sized potatoes 
just as thin as possible and fry them 
in boiling lard. (See directions 
for frying.) Use a vegetable cutter, 
if you have one, for slicing the po- 
tato. Drop a few pieces at a time 
into the lard, which must be not a 
bit less than three inches deep. 
Stir the slices occasionally, to keep 
them from overlapping each other. 
When a light brown, take them out of 
the pan, drain them on a piece of 
brown paper laid in a colander. 
Stand them in the open oven, and 
keep them warm. As you finish the 
second frying turn the first from the 
colander Into a heated dish, and so 
contimie till all the potatoes are fried. 
Serve hot. Garnish, if you wish, with 
parsley sprigs. 

Iiyonnalse Potatoes. 

Pommt'B de Terre d la Lyonnaise 

2 Pints of Cold Boiled Potatoes. Cut in 

Dice. 
2 Onions. 2 Large Tablespoonfuls 

Butter, 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Slice two pints of cold boiled pota- 
toes rather thickly. Mince the onions 
fine. Put the lard into the frying pan 
and as it melts add the onions. Let 
them fry until half done, and then 
add the potatoes. Fry and stir gently 
until the potatoes are a light yellow. 
They must not be fried brown or 
crisp, but merely sauted, or smoth- 
ered, in the onions. The dish is 
really Pommes de Terres Saut^es a. la 
Lyonnaise. When done, turn into a 
hot dish, garnish with chopped pars- 
ley, and serve very hot 



Brabant Potatoes. 

Pommes de Terre Brabant. 

3 Boiled Potatoes. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Lard. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vinegar. 

Cut the potatoes into small dice- 
shaped pieces and fry them for a few 
minutes in the lard. When half 
brown take them out and finish frying 
them in the butter to a light brown. 
When ready to serve add three sprlg.^ 
of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and 
the juice of a lemon, and serve hot. 

Potatoes k la Bourgeoise. 

Pommca de Terre d la Bouregoise. 

6 Potatoes. 1 Pint Gravy or Broth. 

1 Onion. 1 Leak. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Peel cold boiled potatoes and cut 
into quarters, and then drain and put 
into a saucepan, and cover with any 
meat gravy or soup stock that may 
be on hand, and add chopped onion, 
chopped leak, pepper and salt. Set 
on the stove and let stew or simmer 
for half an hour. This is an excel- 
lent family dish, that can be made 
with left-over potatoes, and may be 
used for breakfast or luncheon. 



Potatoes With Butter. 

Pommes de Terre au Beurre. 

16 Small New Potatoes. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful Parsley. 

Select for this dish small, round 
new potatoes, about the size of a mar- 
ble. Boil tliem for about' half an 
hour or twenty minutes, according to 
the touch when pierced with a fork. 
Then drain very dry, peel quickly, 
and put into a saucepan, with a table- 
.spoonful of- butter. Let them brown 
lightly, and serve with Drawn Butter 
Sauce, in which you have put a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley. 



Potatoes, Creole Style. 

Pommes de Terre d la Creole. 

8 Potatoes. 1 Spoonful of Flour. 
Yolks of 2 Eggs. 2 Teaspoonfuls of 

Vinegar. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper. 

Boll the potatoes according to re- 
cipe. Then take them out of the 
water, drain and set on a very low fire 
for five minutes, to evaporate. Then 
take ofC and pour over them this Cre- 



214 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



ole sauce: Blend one tablespoonful of 
flour with two of butter, and, as It 
melts, add about three large table- 
spoonfuls of water. Let It come to 
a boil, take it ofC the stove and add 
the yolk of an egg, which has been 
beaten very light. Add two teaspoon- 
fuls of vinegar. Beat well, and pour 
over the potatoes, and serve either 
hot or cold d. la salade. 



Potatoes k la I>iable. 

Pommes de Terre d la Diable. 

2 Dozen New Potatoes, About the Size 

of Marbles. 

1 Teaspoonful of Mustard. 

2 Large Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

A Dash of Cayenne. Salt to Taste. 

Take nice, fresh new potatoes and 
boil them. (See recipe for boiling 
potatoes.) When done, take ofC and 
let evaporate, being careful not to 
have cooked them too much. Heat 
the lard to the boiling point in a deep 
frying pan, and when it begins to 
boil drop in the potatoes, and let them 
fry for about five minutes. Lift out 
with a skimmer, drain quickly, and 
put them into a saucepan with two 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter into 
which you have rubbed well a tea- 
spoonful of prepared mustard. Add 
a dash of Cayenne and two teaspoon- 
fuls of vinegar. Let it cook for three 
or four minutes, shaking constantly, 
and then take off. Add the yolks of 
two eggs, well beaten, and serve. 

Duchess Potatoes. 

Pomtnca de Terre d la^Duchesse. 

1 Dozen Boiled Potatoes. 
The Yolk of 1 Egg. 

Mash smooth one dozen boiled po- 
tatoes and form them into small 
square cakes. Criss-cross them grace- 
fully with a knife, brush with the 
yolk of an egg beaten in water or 
milk, and set in the oven to bake to 
a delicate brown. 

Potatoes h la Parisienne. 

Pommes de Terre d la Parisienne. 

8 Potatoes. 

1 Kltchenspoonful of Butter. 

% Pint of Milk or Water. 2 Eggs. 

Peel the potatoes and let them 
boil till tender in salt and water. 
Take them out of the water and grate 
and mash them into a paste. Put 
this potato paste in a saucepan with 
a kltchenspoonful of butter and a half 



pint of milk or water, more or less. 
according to the dryness of tlie pota- 
toes. Season lightly with salt. Let 
all boil together, stirring constantly 
until a smooth and thick paste is 
formed. Then turn the mixture into 
another pan, in which you liave al- 
ready beaten two eggs until very, 
very light. Mix thoroughly, and 
make small boulettes or balls of this 
paste. Have ready a pan of boiling 
lard, place the boulettes in it. and 
when they are a beautiful golden 
brown take them out, drain and serve 
hot. The boulettes may also be 
sprinkled with fine white sugar, ac- 
cording to the true Parisian style. 
The Creoles serve them with or with- 
out the sugar, according to taste. 

Sweet potatoes may also be pre- 
pared after this manner, and are de- 
licious. The sweet potatoes are al- 
ways sprinkled with white sugar. 

Potato Balls. 

Pommes de Terre en Boulettes, 

8 Potatoes. 

1 Kltchenspoonful of Butter. 

Vi Pint of Milk. 2 Eggs. 

Parsley to Garnish. 

Cook the potatoes as above, or use 
cold left-over potatoes, for this dish. 
Mash the potatoes well and add an 
equal quantity of cold left-over meat 
or pork, minced very fine. Sausage 
may also be used, with or without the 
meat. Season well with salt and pep- 
per, minced parsley and shallots or 
onions. Mix well with the yolks of 
two eggs, and form into balls of me- 
dium size. Brush with the whites of 
the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, and 
fry in boiling lard. Serve garnished 
with chopped parsley or meat gravy. 

Potato QucncUcs. 

Quenelles de Pommes de Terre. 

6 Potatoes. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 2 Eggs. 

Boil the potatoes, peel and mash 
very fine. Add the butter and minced 
parsley, and a half onion minced very 
fine. Add the yolks of the eggs, beat- 
en very light, and then form the 
potatoes into balls and throw them 
for two minutes into boiling water. 
Take out, brush with the whites of 
the eggs, roll lightly in powdered 
bread crumbs, and fry in boiling lard. 
Drain and serve with fish, meat or 
any sauce. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



215 



Baked Potatoes. 

Pommea de Terre RCtiea. 

6 or 8 Potatoes. 
A, Drawn Butter Sauce, or Sauce k la 

Hollandaise. 

To bake potatoes without meat, 

wrash the potatoes well, set them in 

the oven in their skins, and in about 

a.n hour open the oven slightly and 

take the potatoes out, one by one, in 

a cloth, and press lightly to see if 

they are quite soft to the touch. Then 

either bring to the table in their 

Jackets, as many prefer, or pare and 

serve with a Drawn Butter Sauce, or 

with daubes, meats, sautes, etc., or 

with any fish or meats with gravies. 

Staffed Potatoes, Creole Style. 

Pommea de Terre Farciea d la Creole. 

6 or 8 Potatoes. Chaurice (Sausage) 
Forcemeat. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

This is a delightful variation in 
preparing potatoes. Select fine large 
potatoes, and have ready several nice 
Chaurice. Wash and peel the pota- 
toes carefully, scooping out the in- 
sides nicely with a spoon or sharp- 
pointed knife. Then make a sausage 
forcemeat (see recipe) and heap up 
lightly on top. Butter a baking dish 
nicely, place the potatoes upon it, and 
let them bako in a slow oven for a 
half hour or forty-flve minutes, till 
nicely browned, and send to the table 
hot 

Stuffed Potatoes, Ijcnten Style. 

Pommea de Terre d la Crdme. 

6 Large Potatoes. The Tolk of 1 Egg. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

^ Cup of Milk or Cream. 

H Teaspoon ful of Grated Nutmeg. 

Bake the potatoes in the oven, and, 
when done, cut one end and scoop 
out the meat without breaking the 
skin. Add the yolk of one egg, the 
butter, chopped parsley, salt and pep- 
per to taste, and the grated nutmeg, 
and moisten all with the cream or 
milk. Mix well and beat very light. 
Then refill the skins and return to 
the oven for a few minutes, till very 
hot and slightly browned, and serve. 

Stuffed Potatoes, Swiss Style. 

Pommea de Terre Farciea (T la Suiaac, 

6 or 8 Potatoes. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. % Cup of Hot Milk. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. Pepper to Taste. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

Bake the potatoes, and, when they 
are done, cut off the tops and scoop 



out the meat into a hot bowl; mash 
very fine, and add the butter, the 
milk and salt and pepper. Some add 
a little grated Gruydre cheese; this 
is a matter of taste. Whip all till 
very light, and add the beaten whites 
of two eggs, and stir lightly. Fill 
the potato skins with this prepara- 
tion, heaping the flaky potatoes nicely 
on top. Brush over lightly with the 
yolks of the eggs, set in the oven to 
brown and serve hot. 

Potatoes as a Garnish. 

Pommea de Terre pour Garniture. 

' 6 Potatoes. 
Beef, Veal or Mutton Drippings. 

Select nice, round potatoes, if you 

wish to roast them with beef. Wash 

them, clean, boil, or, better, steam 

them; peel and lay them in the pan 

with the beef or mutton or veal, and 

let them brown awhile before the 

meat is done, basting them when you 

baste the meat with the drippings 

from the roast. Place as a garnish 

around the roast, and bring to the 

table hot. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Dea Patatea Doucea. 
Sweet potatoes may be boiled, 
baked, fried or made into purees, and 
used in puddings and pies. The sweet 
potato is one of our most common 
vegetables. Possessing saccharine 
properties, It is especially nourishing, 
and palatable. 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes. 

Patatea Doucea BouUliea 
€ Potatoes. A Drawn Butter Sauce. 

Wash the potatoes well, using a 
cloth or brush, an 1 removing every 
particle of earth. Clip the edges of 
any roots that adhere. Put them to 
boil in a kettle of boiling water, and 
let them cook till they may be easily 
pierced with a fork. Then drain off 
the water, and set the kettle on a 
very low fire. Cover and let the 
potatoes steam a few minutes. Take 
them out after five minutes or so. and 
peel and serve them with Drawn 
Butter Sauce, or cut in slices and 
spread butter over them, and set in 
the oven for a few seconds, and serve 
hot with daubes, fish, grillades, etc. 
Sweet potatoes are almost invariably 
served with roast pork. 



216 



THE picayune: CREOIiE OOOK BOOK 



Fried Sweet PotAtoes. 

Patatea Doucea Frites. 
4 Potatoes. 3 Tableapoonfuls of Butter. 

Cut the boiled potatoes lencrthwlse 
in slices. Fry In very hot butter 
until brown, and serve hot. This is 
a very nice way to utilize left-over 
potatoes. 

To fry uncooked potatoes, the great 
breakfast dish for fast days among 
the Creoles, slice the potatoes not 
lengthwise, but by rounds, and fry 
in boiling lard. Bring to the table 
when a beautiful brown, and eat with 
butter, spread generously over. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Patatet Douces ROties. 

6 or 8 Potatoes. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 

Wash the potatoes, and scrub the 
skins, but do not peel them. Rub- 
bing the skins of the potatoes lightly 
all over with a little lard, butter or 
fat bacon always renders them very 
soft and pliable to the touch when 
baked; they will peel readily, without 
crumbling from dryness, as baked po- 
tatoes often do, the peeling coming off 
In thin strips, leaving the potato in- 
tact. Put the potatoes In a baking 
pan In the oven, and let them cook 
until their centers are mellow to the 
touch. Serve in their jackets imme- 
diately. Serve with roast meats, 
daubes, grillades, etc., or as a Friday 
dish, to be eaten with butter. 

To roast potatoes with meat or 
pork, wash and boil the potatoes well, 
and a half hour before the roast pork 
or beef is done pare the potatoes, 
drain well, and place in the baking 
pan, around the pork or beef, and 
baste frequently with the dripping 
from the roasting meat. Or put in 
the pan without boiling, and bake a 
half hour longer. The former Is the 
better method. 

Sweet Potato Fritters. ' 

Patatea Doucea en Beignets. 

4 Boiled Sweet Potatoes. 

1 Glass of Milk. 1 Teaspoonful of Sugar. 

Juice of Lemon. Powdered Sugar. 

Cut the boiled sweet potatoes into 
slender round slices, and steep them 
for a half hour in a little milk. Then 
make a light batter, to which you will 
have added a tablespoonful of sugar. 
Add the Juice of a lemon to the soak- 
ing potatoes. Take each slice at a 



time, dip it in the batter, and let it 
drop from the spoon into the boiling 
lard. When fried to a nice golden 
brown place on a piece of brown 
paper, and drain in the oven. Then 
place in the dish in which they are 
to be served. Sprinkle with pow- 
dered white sugar, and serve hot as 
a sweet entremet. 

Sweet Potatoes, CanuneL 

Patatea Doucea au Caramel. 

4 Potatoes. Boiling Lard or Butter. 
4 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 

Boil the potatoes, and then cut 
them lengthwise in halves. Fry In 
boiling lard or butter, and. while fry- 
ing, sprinkle generously with sugar. 
This is a delicious sweet entree. 

Sweet Potato Pudding. 

Ponding de Patatea Doucea. 

6 Sweet Potatoes. \ Pound of Fine 

Susar. 

\ Pound of Butter. 

The Kind of a Lemon. Grated Fine. 

^ Grated Nutmeg. 4 Ground Allspice. 

1 Piece of Ground Cinnamon. 

1^ Pints of Milk or Cream. 

Boil or bake the potatoes, peel and 
press them through a very fine sieve, 
the finer the better. Add to them 
the yolks of six eggs, and beat welL 
Then add the butter, beating well and 
thoroughly, and add the sugar and 
milk. Beat all very light, and add the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stifF 
froth. Mix thoroughly, and add the 
grated nutmeg, ground spices, and 
lemon rind, blending well with the po- 
tatoes. Set them In a hot oven, 
and let them bake for an hour. Place 
a brown paper on top for the first 
three-quarters of an hour, and take 
it ofC at the last quarter for the 
franglpane to brown nicely. Sprin- 
kle with powdered sugar, and serve 
hot or cold. 

Sweet Potato Waffles. 

Oaufrea de Patatee Doucet. 

4 Left-Over Potatoes. 
Other Ingredients in Proportion Oivea. 

This is a good way to utilize left- 
over potatoes. To every two table- 
spoonfuls of mashed potatoes add one 
of butter, one of sugar, one pint of 
milk, and four tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Beat all well together, and add one 
eeg* well beaten. Bake them In waflSe 
irons and serve with butter spread 
over them. 



TME PICAYUNE CKEOIiE CX)OK BOOK 



217 



Sweet Potato Pone. 

Pain de Patates Douces, 

A Largre Sweet Potatoes. 

1 Teacupful of Brown Suerar. 

1 Teacupful of New Orleans Molasses. 

1 Teacupful of Milk. 

1 Teacupful of Butter. 4 Eggrs. 

The Rind of One Lemon. Grated. 

A. Small Bit of Orange Peel, Grated 

Very Pine. 

Mr Teaspoonful of Nutmegr. 

% Teaspoonful of Ground Cloves. 

Vi Teaspoonful of Ground Cinnamon. 

Orate the potatoes and the rind of 

tlie lemon and orange. Beat the eggs 

^well; stir the butter and sugar till 

creamy, add the eggs, beat well, then 

add the grated potato and spices and 

milk; beat all well together; add the 

grated rind of the orange and lemon, 

put the mixture in a well-buttered 

pan and bake slowly for about an 

hour. It may be served hot or cold 

cut in slices. It is delicious when 

eaten cold at luncheon with a glass 

of fresh milk. 

PEPPERS. 

Des PimenU 
More peppers are raised in Louis- 
iana than in any other section of the 
country. The hot varieties, or "Pi- 
mentos." "Chill," "Red Pepper," 
"Cayenne," "Tabasco," etc., are used 
extensively for seasoning and for 
making our famous Creole pepper 
sauces. The mild varieties, "Sweet 
Peppers," or "Green Peppers," "Man- 
goes," etq.. are highly esteemed, and 
are used not only in making salads, 
but In other delightful dishes. 

GREEN PEPPERS. 

Des PimenU Verts, 
Green Peppers may be used In sal- 
ads, as seasonings for various dishes, 
or they may be stufCed or saut6d. For 
Green Pepper Salads see recipe under 
chapter on "Salads." 

Stuffed Green Peppers. 

Piments Verts Farcis. 

2 Dozen Fresh Green Peppera 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

% Onion, Chopped Very Fine. 

% Inch of Boiled Ham. 1 Clove of 

^ Garlic. 

^ Cup of Bread, Wet and Squeezed 

Thoroughly. 

Parboil one dozen green peppers. 
Then take off the skins, cut off the 
topmost tips, and clean the Inside of 
the peppers, throwing all the seeds 
away. Then wash a dozen or more 
raw peppers, cut off the stalk or stem, 



and clean the Insldes of all seeda 
Chop the peppers very fine. Use one- 
half of an onion, minced fine, 
and let It brown lightly In the 
butter. Then add the peppers, 
minced very fine, almost mashed Into 
a Jelly, and the half Inch of ham, 
minced very fine. As these brown 
add the clove of garlic, minced fine, 
and when the peppers are well cooked 
add one-half a cup of bread that has 
been wet In water and squeezed thor- 
oughly. Season with salt and pepper 
to taste, and let It brown. Add a 
dash of Cayenne pepper. When the 
stuffing is well browned and well sea- 
soned take from the stove and stuff 
the peppers. Sprinkle a little grated 
bread crumbs on top, and place a dot 
of butter on each one. Put them In 
the stove, let them brown, and serve 
hot with meats, broiled or roasted 
chicken, etc. 

Green Peppers Sant^. 

Piments Verts Sautes 

1 Dozen Large Green Peppera 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Chopped Shallots. 2 Sprigs of Parsley. 

A Dash of Sweet Paprika. 

Salt to Taste. 

Plunge the peppers Into hot boiling 
fat and rub off the skin. Then cut 
them Into halves, cut off the stems, 
and take out the seeds. Carefully 
cut away the ribs and let the peppers 
saut4 for ten minutes in a table- 
spoonful of butter. Then moisten 
with a pint of consomm^ ; season with 
the chopped shallots, parsley and 
sweet paprika, and let all cook slow- 
ly for a half hour, or until done. 
Prepare fancy slices of toast, and 
serve the peppers on these with a 
delicate garnish of chopped yolks of 
hard-boiled eggs. 

MANGOES. 

Manffos 
This Is a bright, waxy, golden-yel- 
low sweet pepper, very brilliant and 
handsome, and exempt from fiery 
flavor, and may be eaten as readily 
as an apple. Mangoes are generally 
served as an appetizer (hors 
d'oeuvres). 

PUMPKIN. 

Des Oitroutlles — Des Oiraumonts ou 
Potirons 

We have two varieties of pumpkin 
In Louisiana, one a large, rounded. 



218 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



globe pumpkin, and the other a more 
delicate and much more highly ap- 
preciated variety, called the Cashaw. 
The former is called by the Creoles 
"Citroullle." and the latter "Glrau- 
mont/' or "Potiron." Both are 
cooked according to the following 
methods: 

Stewed Pumpkin. 

CitrouUle d la Creole 

2 Pints of Pumpkin or Cashaw. 
4 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Teaspoonful of Ground Mace. 

1 Teaspoonful of Ground Cinnamon. 
1 Teaspoonful of Ground Cloves. 

Cut the pumpkin into halves and 
then into quarters, and pare. Then 
cut it into pieces of about one inch 
square. Place them all in a deep pot, 
and add sufficient water to cover. Let 
the pumpkin stew slowly for about 
an hour, stirring frequently to pre- 
vent burning. Then take out of the 
pot, press through a colander, and set 
on a very low fire. Add, for every 
pint of pumpkin, two large table- 
spoonfuls of butter, and a half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one of ground mace, 
one of ground cinnamon and one of 
ground allspice. Mix all thoroughly, 
and add sugar to taste. Let It sim- 
mer slowly for half an hour longer, 
and serve hot with daubes, Grillades 
& la Sauce, etc. If the pumpkin 
cooks till very tender, so that It 
mashes easily. It need not be pressed 
through a colander. 

If the CitrouUle, or large pumpkin, 
is used, never cook all at one time. 
Cut It In half, and save one part for 
another day. The Cashaw, according 
to the size, Is generally cooked all 
at once. Left-over pumpkin can be 
utilized In making pumpkin pie. (See 
recipe. ) 

Baked Pumpkin. 

Giraumont R6ti. 

2 Pints of Pumpkin or Cashaw. 
A Dressing of Butter or Gravy. 

Cut the pumpkin In halves and 
then Into quarters. Two quarters are 
enough for a family of six. If the 
pumpkin Is large. Remove the seeds, 
but do not peel the rind. Place in 
a baking pan with the rind down- 
wards, and bake until so tender that 
It may be pierced easily with a fork. 
Serve In the rind at the table, help- 
ing It by spoonfuls. It is eaten with 
butter or gravy. 



RADISHES. 

Dcf Radia. 

Radishes are eaten as a relish, or 
hors d'oeuvres. They are great ap- 
petizers, and help the digestion. 

There Is an art In preparing the 
radish properly for the table. Cut 
the tops and save them for G-umbo 
aux Herbes. Throw the radi.shes into 
a bucket of cold water and wash -well. 
Have at hand another bucket of 
water. Cut the remaining tops about 
an Inch from the body of the radish. 
BO that only the dainty green will 
appear. Hold the radish by the top, 
root upwards, and cut the skin 
downwards In four or six parts, "with- 
out detaching the radish from the 
stalk. In other words, open as you 
would an orange, without breaking 
to pieces. Throw the radishes into 
the fresh bucket of cold water, and 
In abo t fifteen minutes they will 
have opened like a rose, the effect of 
the white against the red being very 
pretty. Fill glass bowls with these, 
using taste in arranging, and you will 
not only have a very dainty dish, as 
far as a relish is concerned, but a 
pretty table decoration. 

Another way Is to scrape the rad- 
ish in spots or lengths, alternating so 
that there will be a streak of red and 
one of white. The radish is not cut 
open in this case. Either way is 
pretty and Inviting, If properly done. 
One or two dainty leaves may be left 
near the stalk to improve the appear- 
ance of the dish. 

Radishes may be served at break- 
fast, dinner or luncheon. The horse- 
radish Is used as an appetizer, and 
also In sauces. 

ROQUETTE. 

Roquette. 
This Is a salad vegetable, resem- 
bling Cress in taste. It is served as 
a salad in the same manner, and is 
very popular with the Creoles. 

SALSIFY, OR OYSTER PliANT. 

SalaifiM. 
All recipes grlven for cooking pars- 
nips may be applied to Salsify, which, 
by the way. Is considered the more 
delicate of the two, though both are 
of the same order. Salsify partakes 
somewhat of the flavor of- oysters, 
hence the name "Oyster Plant," (See 
Parsnips. ) 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIjE COOK BOOK 



219 



Oyster Plant, Creamed 

Salaifta d la Crtme 

A Bunch of Fresh Oyster Plant 
% Pint of Cream Sauce. 

Wash and scrape the roots of the 

l>lant thoroughly. Then throw them 

into cold water Immediately as you 

scrape them, or they will turn black 

a.nd appear unpalatable. Have ready 

a kettle of boiling water, and cook 

for an hour, or longer, till tender. 

Drain and serve with a Cream Sauce 

poured over them. (See recipe Cream 

Sauce. ) 

Oyster Plant k la Poulette. 

Salaifta d la Poulette. 

A Bunch of Salsify or Oyster Plant. 

H Pin^ of Sauce ii la Poulette. 

Prepare exactly as in the manner 
Indicated above, using instead of the 
Cream Sauce a Sauce k la Poulette. 

Oyster Plant Saut^fl in Butter. 

Balaifla Sautia au Beurre. 

A Good Bunch of Oyster Plant. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Vinegar. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

A Tablespoonful of Salt. 

Juice of 1 Lemon. 

A Teaspoon ful of Chopped Parsley. 

A Pinch of Black Pepper. 

Scrape the oyster plant well and 
throw into cold water, into which put 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar to pre- 
vent the salsify from turning black. 
Take from the water, drain and cut 
into pieces one and a half inches in 
length. Put into a saucepan with 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and 
flour well mixed and cover with a 
quart of cold water. Add a table- 
spoonful of salt, cover well and let 
boil slowly for three-quarters of an 
hour. Drain and return to the sauce- 
pan and add two tablespoonfuls of 
the best butter, the pepper, chopped 
parsley, juice of a lemon, and a pinch 
of black pepper. Mix well and let 
It heat for five minutes, tossing al- 
most constantly. Put into a deep 
dish and serve hot. 



Salsify Fritter. 

Balaifla en Beigneta, 

A Bunch of Salsify. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Cup of Water. 2 Eggs. 

VL Pound of Flour. 1 Teaspoonful of 

Salt. 
1 Teaspoonful of Pepper. 

Clean and scrape the salsify and 
boll as directed in recipe Boiled Pars- 



nips (see recipe) till very tender. 
Then cut Into long, narrow strips. 
Make a batter by mixing the flour 
with the yolks of the eggs, beaten 
well. Then add the salt and pepper, 
and gradually one cup of water, till it 
is absorbed. Then add the whites of 
the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Mix 
thoroughly. Add the salsify to the 
batter. Dip out one spoon at a time 
of the batter, and fry in boiling lard. 
Serve as an entree at dinner. 

SPINACH. 

Des Spinarda 
Spinach is one of the most healthful 
vegetables, but, unfortunately, it is 
generally so badly prepared by the 
majority of cooks as to be not only 
most unpalatable, but unsavory as 
well. The great art in cooking Spin- 
ach is to cook it just long enough 
and no longer, to drain thoroughly 
and to have it of just such consist- 
ency as will enable It to retain a neat 
shape when arranged on a dish in 
mound shape. The most important 
point of all, however, is to drain it 
perfectly dry the moment it is taken 
from the Are. If allowed to cook too 
long, it loses its color. If it stands in 
the water it becomes tasteless. 



Spinach, Plain Boiled. 

Spinarda au Naturel 

% Peck of Fresh Young Spinach. 
1 Cupful of Water. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 

Always select young and tender 
spinach. Carefully pick it over, and 
reject all wilted leaves and coarse 
fibers and nerves. Cut off the roots. 
Wash and drain it well in cold water, 
and press until quite dry. It will 
take about half a peck, or four pints, 
to make a good dish, as it boils down. 
Put the spinach in a kettle and add 
one cupful of water. Place on a 
moderate Are and let it simmer for 
ten minutes. As soon as it appears 
to wilt take off the fire, for that is 
all the cooking that is needed. Then 
drain the spinach carefully flrst 
through a colander, and then press 
it in a very fine sieve, to drain 
it more thoroughly. Chop the spinach 
very fine. Then put a tablespoonful 
of butter in a saucepan, and add the 
spinach to it. Stir well. Add a few 
spoonfuls of water, just sufficient to 
thin, if a little thick, and let it heat 



220 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE CX>OK BOOK 



thorouerhly. Season with salt and 
pepper to taste. 

At this point the spinach may be 
served in various ways, as Spinach d. 
la Crdme, Spinach au Jus, Spinach 
with Hard-Boiled Kgrss, Spinach k 
la Maltre d'Hotel, etc. The plain 
boiled spinach may be served with 
vinegar as a salad. (See recipe un- 
der chapter on Salads.) 

Spinach, Creamed. 

£pinarda d la Crime 

% Peck of Spinach. 1 Cupful of Water. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 .Table- 
spoonful of Powdered Sugar. 
6 CroQtons. 
A Cream Sauce. 

Prepare the spinach as above. 
When about to take from the sauce- 
pan, have ready slices of buttered 
toast, or Crotltons fried in butter. Roll 
the CroOtons in sugar before frying. 
Heap the spinach in little mounds 
upon them, sprinkle lightly with 
sugar, pour over all a Cream Sauce 
(see Cream SauCe), and serve hot. 

Spinach au Jus k la Bourgeoise. 

iipinardn au Jus d la BourgeoUe 

}i Peck of Spinach. 
2 Hard-Boiled or Poached Eggs. 
1 Cup of Gravy or Consomme. 

Boil the spinach according to the 
above recipe. When ready to take 
from the saucepan, after adding the 
butter and seasonings, put it in a 
saucepan and pour over a cup of 
roast beef gravy or consomm6, let it 
cook for twenty minutes, and serve 
hot. 

Spinach Witli Hard-Boiled Eggs. 

Spinarda aux Oeufa Dura 

^ Peck of Spinach. 

1 Cupful of Water. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 
3 Hard-Boiled Egss. 

Cook the spinach as in recipe for 
Spinach (Plain Boiled). Then take 
it from the saucepan, and arrange it 
in a mound on a dish, garnishing with 
slices of hard-boiled eggs. 

Spinach h la Maltre d'Hotel. 

Spinarda d la Mattre d'Hdtel. 
% Peck of Spinach. 1 Cupful of Water. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. A Sauce 
A la Maltre d'Hotel. , 

Prepare the spinach as directed in 
recipe Plain Boiled Spinach. Pour 
over a Sauce k la Mattre d'Hotel, 
cook a few minutes, and serve hot. 



Spinach k la Cuislnidre 

JSpinarda d la Cuiaini^e. 

M Peck of Spinach. % Tablespoonful 
, ^ ^, of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour. 1 Cud of 

Milk. 
6 Toasted CroOtons. 

Prepare the spinach as above, hash 
fine, and put in a saucepan with a 
tablespoonful of butter. Season with 
salt and pepper, add a tablespoonful 
of flour, mixed with a cup of milk 
and a spoon of melted butter, and 
serve with toasted dice— CroOtons on 
the top. 

BEET TOPS, RADISH TOPS, TUR- 
NIP TOPS, ETC. 

Never throw away any beet, turnip 
or radish tops. They may all be 
cooked in the same manner as spin- 
ach au just, or they may be boiled 
with salt meat, and make very good 
and healthful dishes. These may be 
made into nice purees, also. (See re- 
cipe for making purees.) 

SORREIi. 

De VOaeUle. 
Sorrel is used for various purposes 
in the kitchen. It is made into soups 
and purees, served as a salad, or 
cooked in exactly the same manner 
as in the recipes for spinach. (See 
recipes Spinach.) 

Sorrel Piir6c. 

Pur6e d'Oaeille. 
In preparing Sorrel after this re- 
cipe, make a pur^e, to be served as 
a vegetable or as a soup. (See re- 
cipe.) A vegetable pur^e is, of 
course, much thicker than a pur^e in- 
tended for soup. 

Sorrel an Gras. 

OaeUle au Oraa, 

Prepare the sorrel in exactly the 
same manner as spinach, or "fipl- 
nards au Jus." (See recipe.) Re- 
ject all fibrous portions. 'After you 
have scalded it, it is important to 
drain thoroughly. Then chop and 
press through a colander. Garnish 
nicely with Crodtons fried in butter. 

Sorrel is very acid, and for those 
who do not like it, the acidity may be 
modified by mingling with equal parts 
of spinach or lettuce. 



'THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOlt BOOK 



221 



Sorrel au Mtdgrc 

Oaeille au Maigre. 
Prepare exactly as above, only, in- 
stead of uslnsr broth or ^ravy, add 
milk and the well-beaten yolks of 
two eggs. 

SQUASH 

Courge. 

3 Young Squash. 2 Tablespoonfula of 

Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Cut the squash Into quarters and 
pare and remove the seeds. Then cut 
into small squares of about an inch. 
Wash in cold water, put it into a 
porcelain-lined or agate saucepan and 
only half cover with water, for 
squash Is a watery vegetable. Let it 
simmer gently for about twenty min- 
utes or half an hour. Then drain 
through a colander, pressing gently. 
Mash the squash very fine after drain- 
ing, and return to the saucepan. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, and salt 
and pepper to taste, and stir until 
thoroughly heated, when it will begin 
to simmer gently. Do not cease stir- 
ring or it will burn. Serve hot. 

TOMATOES. 

Det Tomate9. 

Like the onion, tomatoes are among 
the indispensable adjuncts of good 
cooking, entering, as they do, so much 
into the good seasoning and delicate 
flavoring of various dishes. They 
are also excellent in salads. (See 
Salads.) Tomatoes, when cooked, 
however, form very dainty dishes, and 
among these are the following: 



Stewed Tomatoes. 

Tomates 8aut6e9. 

12 Tomatoes. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 

1 Teaapoonful of Sugar. 1 Onion. 

yk Cup of Bread Crumbs. 1 Inch of 

Ham. 
Salt and Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 
1 Sprig Each of Thyme, Parsley and 

Bay Leaf. 

Scald the tomatoes, and let the 
water remain over them about five 
minutes. Then peel them, slipping 
the skins off with a silver knife, and 
cut them into small pieces. Put a 
tablespoonful of butter into a sauce- 
pan, and as it melts add the onion, 
which you will have chopped very 
fine. Let it brown, and add one inch 



of ham, chopped very fine. Then add 
the tomatoes, and let them brown, 
slowly adding in the meantime a half 
cup of dry bread crumbs. Let all 
simmer gently and add one sprig each 
of thyme, parsley and bay leaf. Stew 
slowly for an hour longer, and serve 
hot. 

Broiled Tomatoes. 

Tomatee GriU^ea. 

6 Tomatoes. 2 Tablespoonfuls of 

Butttr. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Take six tomatoes and cut them in 
halves crosswise, but do not peel them. 
Cook them in a well-buttered broiler 
on a slow fire until tender. Turn the 
broiler from one side to the other of- 
ten, to prevent burning. In about ten 
minutes they will be done. Lay them 
on a hot dish; put melted butter, a 
little chopped parsley and the Juice 
of a lemon on each, and serve hot. 

Fried Tomatoes. 

Tomatea Fritea, 

6 Nice, Large. Firm Tomatoes. 

1 Egg. H Cup of Bread Crumbs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Lard. 

Slice the tomatoes very thin, and 
then dust with salt and pepper. Beat 
the egg very light. Dip the tomatoes 
first in this and then in the bread 
crumbs, and drop into the lard, cov- 
ering the bottom of the pan. When 
brown on one side, turn on the other. 
Turn carefully with the cake turner 
into a heated dish. Keep warm while 
you are frying the rest, and serve 
very hot. 

Ty>matoes au Gratin. 

Tomatea au Gratin. 

6 Tomatoes. 2 Tablespoonfuls of 

Butter. 

1 Cup of Grated Bread Crumbs. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Scald and skin the tomatoes. Then 
place a layer of them at the bottom 
of a baking dish, cover with a layer 
of bread crumbs, spread very thick, 
and season with salt and pepper and 
dots of butter at intervals. Continue 
in this way till the last layer is 
reached, finishing with a layer of 
bread crumbs, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dot with butter, and put in 
an oven to bake for an hour and a 
quarter. Canned tomatoes will re- 
quire about half this time. 



222 



THE PICATUICE CIlEX>LiE COOK BOOK 



Scalloped Tomatoes. 

Tomatea en Coquillea. 

6 Tomatoes. 1 Cup of Grated Bread 

Crumbs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Proceed exactly as above* ouly bake 

the tomatoes in layers in small cups 

or silver shells. 

StafTccl Tomatoes. 

Tomatea Farcies. 

6 Tomatoes. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Cup of Wet Bread, Squeezed 

Thoroughly. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

1 Clove of Garlic (if desired). 1 Onion. 

% Inch of Ham. 

Wash the tomatoes, selectiner fine, 
large, smooth ones for this purpose. 
Either cut the tomato in two, or else 
cut one slice from the stem end. 
Scoop out the inside of the tomato, 
and put it in a dish and save* the 
shells. Chop very fine one onion and 
one quarter of an inch of ham. Put a 
tablespoonful of butter into a sauce- 
pan, and add the onion, letting it 
brown nicely. Then add the minced 
ham. Let it brown. Now put in the 
tomato pulp, and then add, almost 
instantly, a cup of bread that has 
been wet and squeezed. Beat all 
well together as it fries, and add salt 
and pepper to taste. Let it cook well, 
then take it off, and stuff the toma- 
toes, cut in halves or whole. The 
former is the daintier way. Sprinkle 
the tops with bread crumbs and dot 
with butter. Place in the oven for 
fifteen or twenty minutes, till brown, 
and serve hot with filet of beef oi 
chicken, etc. 

StnlTed Tomatoes, Creole Style. 

Tomatea Fardea d la CrSole. 

% Pound of the White Meat of c 

Chicken. 

2 Inches of Ham. 

1 Egg. 1 Tablespoonful of Parsley. 

1 Onion, Minced Fine. ^ Cup Bread 

Crumbs. 

Thyme and Bay Leaf. 

Salt, Pepper and Cayenne to Taste. 

Chop the chicken meat very fine. 
Cut the tomatoes into halves, and 
scoop out the insldes without break- 
ing the outer skins, and chop the pulp 
very fine. Put a tablespoonful of but- 
ter into the saucepan, and as it melts 
add the chopped onion, and let it 
brown. After a few minutes add the 
ham and chicken, and let these brown. 
Then add the tomatoes, and, as they 



brown, the bread crumbs. Add the 
minced herbs and a clove of gsirlic. if 
desired. (The garlic must be added 
before the tomatoes, if it be used.) 
Let all simmer gently. Season to taste 
with salt and pepper and a dash of 
Cayenne. Watch well and remove it 
from the fire, when about the con- 
sistency of thick starch. Let it cool 
slightly, and then stufiC each tomato 
shell. Sprinkle grated bread crumbs 
on top, and dot with butter. Place 
in the oven for about half an hour, 
and serve as an entremet with chicken 
or veal. 

Tomato Salad. 

Tomatea en Salade. 
See recipe under chapter on Salads. 

Tomato Pur4e. 

Purie de Tomatfa. 
See recipe under chapter on Soups. 

TURinPS. 

Dea Naveta, 
Turnips are largely used, like the 
tomato and onion, though not to such 
an extent, in seasoning food sub- 
stances. They are indispensable with 
the pot-au-feu, the bouillon, or the 
well-made consomm6. 

Mashed Tmrnlps. 

Pur6e de Naveta. 

6 Turnips. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Wash and pare the turnips, cut 
them into quarters, cover them with 
boiling water, cooking them till very 
tender, which will be in about thirty 
to forty-five minutes, according to the 
tenderness of the vegetable. If you 
boil them whole it will take an hour 
and a quarter. Now drain them, 
very thoroughly in a colander, press- 
ing them lightly to squeeze out all re- 
maining water, and hash well. Add a 
tablespoonful of butter, salt and pep- 
per to taste, and serve hot. 

Turnips may be mixed with equal 
quantities of potatoes, mashed and 
buttered. 

Plain Boiled Tnmliis. 

Naveta Bouillia au Naturel, 

6 Turnips. A Drawn Butter Sauce. 

Boil the turnips whole, selecting 

very tender ones. They will require 

about an hour's cooking. Always 



rTHE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



223 



start with hot water In boiling: turnips. 
Drain well, when tender, and serve 
with a Drawn Butter Sauce, pepper 
and salt. Servo with roast beef, mut- 
ton or roast duck. 

Creamed Tmmlps. 

Naveta d la Crhne. 
6 Turnips. A Cream Sauce. 
Cut largre turnips in quarters for 
this dish. Small ones may be boiled 
whole. When tender, drain and put 
into a colander and press out all 
water. Then make a rich Cream 
Sauce (see recipe) and pour over the 
turnips. Serve with boiled leg of 
mutton, either by placing: the turnips 
around the leg of mutton on the dish 
and pouring the sauce over all; or 
separately, as a vegetable. 

Turnips Baked With Mutton. 

Mouton R6ti aux Naveta, 

6 Turnips. Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
Roast Mutton Drippings. 

Boil the turnips until nearly ten- 
der. Then drain in a colander. If 
very large, cut in quarters; if small, 
let them remain uncut. Lay them on 
the pan, around tho roasting leg of 
mutton, and let them bake about an 
hour, basting frequently with the 
drippings from tho mutton. When 
done, place around the leg of mutton 
as a garnish, and serve. 



Glazed Turnips. 

Naveta Glacia, 

6 Turnips of Uniform Size. 
1 Tablespoonful of Sugar. 1 Cup of 

Water. 

1 Large Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Salt to Taste. 

Select fine, small and tender turnips 
of uniform size, top the heads and the 
stems, and remove the skins, but not 
too closely, lest they should break 
up when boiling. Then take a frying 
pan large enough for the turnips to 
lie In it, side by side. First put the 
butter in a large frying-pan, and when 
melted add the turnips. Then 
sprinkle with the sugar and water, 
and season with salt to taste. Set on 
a very slow flre, where they can sim- 
mer gently for an hour. When nearly 
done, and tender all through, add a 
tablespoonful of flour, mixed in water, 
blended well. Then set in the oven, 
with a paper on top. Let them stand 
for about half an hour and use as a 



garnish for beef, veal, etc. The tur- 
nips will bo nicely glazed, and will 
make the dish appear very beautiful. 

Turnips Fried in Butter. 

Naveta SautSa au Beurre, 

6 Turnips. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

Boil the turnips according to direc- 
tions, and, when very tender, drain 
in a colander. Put two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter into a frying pan, and 
when it is hot add the turnips. Sea- 
son well with * salt and pepper, and, 
when nicely browned, dish on a hot 
platter and serve with roast ducks. 

Boiled Turnip Tops, Creole Style. 

Naveta d la Creole, 

U Peck of Turnip Greens. 

1 Tablespoonful of Salt and a Pound of 

Fresh Pork or 1 Pound of Salt Pork. 

Pepper to Taste. 

Wash the turnip tops, and put into 
a kettle of boiling water with a piece 
of fresh or salt pork. Let them boil 
slowly till tender, and then season 
well with salt and pepper. When 
tender, take out and chop a little. 
Drain ofC all water, and serve as you 
would boiled cabbage, piling the tur- 
nip tops around the dish, with the salt 
meat or porh in the center. 

Again the Creoles boil the white 
turnips with the greens, cutting the 
former always into quarters or semi- 
quarters, according to their size, and 
chopping tho greens after cooking. 
Eat with pepper vinegar, as you would 
boiled cabbage. 

TRUFFLES. 

Dea Truffea. 

The Truffle is a most expensive veg- 
etable, belonging to the family of 
Mushrooms. It is much esteemed by 
epicures, for, when mixed in proper 
proportionn, it adds a zest and flavor 
to all sauces for Fish, Filets of Beef, 
Turkey, Chicken, Game and Omelets 
that cannot be found in any other 
plant in the entire vegetable kingdom. 
The name "Truffle" is supposed to be 
derived from the French "Truffe," or 
the Spanish "Trufa," sigmifying de- 
ceit or imposition, the growth of the 
plant underground seeming to accord 
with the name. 

Truffles come prepared in cans, be- 
ing put up in France, those of "Peri- 
gord" being the brand most in use. 



224 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIjE COOK BOOK 



The Creoles use Truffles mostly as a 
condiment for fish, meats, stufflngrs 
for poultry, srame. etc. For filets, 
they are prepared simply "Truffle," 
or whole or cut in halves; or "& la 
Perigueux." that is, the Truffles are 
cut or minced very fine. They are 
also served after the following: man- 
ner as entremets or hors d'oeuvres: 



egrgplants, squash, or pumpkins. It 
may be cooked in a half dozen 'ways, 
stuffed and stewed and fried, &s the 
eggplant (see recipes), or stevred or 
baked, like the pumpkin, squaah or 
cashaw. It is particularly fine when 
prepared like stewed cashaw. (See 
recipe.) It may also be made into 
fritters, like eggplant. 



Traffles in Spanish Style. 

TruffeB d VEspagnole, 

10 Truffles. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Salad Oil or Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Minced Parsley. 

3 Finely Minced Shallots. 

3 Sprigs of Minced Parsley. 

Sauce Espagnole. 

Slice the Truffles very fine, put 
them in a saucepan on a slow fire, 
with a tablespoonful of butter or two 
of oil, salt and pepper to taste, and 
the minced parsley and shallots. After 
letting them smother for a few min- 
utes, moisten well with a Sauce Es- 
pagrnole. Quicken the fire slightly, 
and let them cook slowly till done. 
Skim off all grease, and serve hot 
with ragoQts, etc. 



TralRes on Minced Toast. 

Truffea en Crouatades. 

4 Truffles. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
1 Clove of Garlic. 

Prepare the Truffles as in the re- 
cipe "a TEspagnole," or simply "d. 
la Provencale,*' that is, slice them 
very fine, let them stew or saut4 well 
in butter, seasoning well with salt 
and pepper and the clove of a garlic 
minced very fine. When done, add 
the juice of a lemon. Cut some 
slices of bread in fancy shapes, and 
fry in butter, or toast them. Cover 
each piece with some of the RagoCit 
of Truffles, and serve hot. 

VEGETABLE PEAR. 

Mirliton. 
The Vegetable Pear, or "Mirliton," 
as the Creoles have named this vege- 
table, belongs to the gourd family. It 
is known to botanists usually as 
the ''One-Seeded Cucumber." Like 
almost all the gourds, the plant is a 
vine, and is trained on trellises, 
fences or arbors around the home. 
It is not only a very ornamental vine, 
but an abundant bearer. The fruit, 
if properly prepared, is a delightful 
dish, and is of a finer flavor than 



MELONS. 

Dea Melona. 
' The New Orleans market cannot be 
excelled in the variety of Melons pro- 
duced in the beginning of summer. 
and even until late in the fall. Es- 
pecially is this the case with the 
Muskmelon or Cantaloup. No North- 
ern variety of melons can compare 
with our special varieties, and it is 
a common saying that Louisiana sun 
is needed to bring the seed to per- 
fection. Muskmelons and Water- 
melons are among our most common 
articles of food, and are within the 
reach of all classes, rich and poor. 
white and black. 

MUSKMELON. 

Cantaloup. 
Muskmelons, or Cantaloups, are 
cultivated extensively in the vicinity 
of New Orleans. They are served 
both as a fruit and as a desert — ^as a 
fruit at the beginning of breakfast, 
and as a desert at the close of lunch- 
eon or dinner. The melon is always 
served very cold, being kept on ice 
several hours before it is used. It is 
cut in halves, cleansed of seed, and 
crushed ice is placed in each half. 

WATERMELON. 

Melon d*Eau. 

The Watermelon is as great a 
favorite for luncheon and dinner 
and supper desserts as is the Musk- 
melon for breakfast. Indeed, at all 
hours during the summer, except in 
the early forenoon, a watermelon is 
considered most refreshing and wel- 
come. The Creoles, as a rule, cut the 
melon in great round slices, so that 
each person may have a piece of the 
heart" of the fruit; or it may be cut 
in lengthwise slices, according to 
taste. The practice of "scooping the 
melon out with a spoon," and thus 
serving it, is not favored by Uie Cre- 
oles. 



— J — I 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



225 



GARDEN HERBS. 

The old-time garden herbs are part 
of every well-regrulated Creole kitchen 
srarden. Thyme, Sage, Rosemary, 
Mint, Sweet Marjoram, Basil, Laven- 
der, Anise, Carraway, Bene, Borage, 
Catnip, Coriander, Dill, Fennel, Hore- 
hound. Pot Marigold, Pennyroyal, 
Rue, Summer Savory, Tansy, Tarra- 
gon, Wormwood — all are used by Cre- 
ole housewives, either for culinary, 
or for medicinal purposes. "The Bou- 
quet Garni," or herb bouquet, has 
already been spoken of in the begin- 
ning of this book. To prepare such 
herbs as Sage, Thyme, Summer Sav- 
ory, Mint; Basil, or any of the sweet 
or medicinal herbs, for winter use, 
the Creole gathers them perhaps from 
her own little garden patch or pro- 
cures them from the markets. After 
exo.mlnlng them well, and discarding 
all poor or sickly-looking sprigs, she 
washes -and shakes the herbs. Then 



she ties them into small bundles, and 
fastens a very thin piece of cloth 
about them, to keep them from pick- 
ing up dust. The herbs are then 
hung, leaves downwards. In a warm, 
dry place. In a few days they will 
be thoroughly dry and brittle. She 
then picks all the leaves off, and puts 
Ihem in clean, large-mouthed bottles, 
and corks and labels them. When 
needed for use, they are rubbed very 
fine between the fingers and passed 
through a sieve. The bottle is al- 
ways kept corked, as exposure to the 
air will cause the herbs to lose 
strength and flavor. 

Herbs, such as Sweet Marjoram, 
Thyme, etc., are in daily use in our 
kitchens. In like manner the Creole 
housewife gathers the leaves of the 
Laurel, or Bay Leaf, and, after wash- 
ing and drying them thoroughly, she 
bottles them tightly. But fresh herbs 
were nearly always to be found in the 
old Creole gardens. 



CHAPTER XXX 




Bor8 d*Oeuvr€%, 



Hors d'Oeuvres are relishes and 
may be served either hot or cold. 
Ordinarily, in daily household life, 
only the cold hors d'oeuvres, such as 
cress, celery, olives, radishes, etc., are 
served; they are set upon the tables 
as a decoration and passed as appe- 
tizers or relishes between the courses. 
At more formal affairs, hot hors 
d'oeuvres are often served, although 
both kinds may be eaten at the same 
dining. 

Cold Relishes. 

Hors d'Oeuvres Froids, 
Radishes, Celery, Olives, Cress, Let- 
tuce, Roquette, Pickled Onions, Sliced 
Cucumbers, Sliced Tomatoes, Pickles, 
Mangoes, Melons, Anchovies, Sardines, 
Lyonnaise Sausage (Saudssons Lyon- 
nalse). Bread and Butter, Crackers, 
Anchovy Sandwiches, Ham Sand- 
wiches, Cheese Sandwiches, Bologna 



Sausage cut and sliced. Cold Ham, 
Pig's Feet, a Crawfish Bush (Buisson 
d'£crevisses), a Shrimp Bus^ (Buis- 
son de Chevrettes), Boiled Crawfish, 
River Shrimp on Ice, Oysters on Half 
Shell, Raw Oysters, Sliced or Quar- 
tered Lemon, Salted Almonds, Salted 
Peanuts. Canapes of Caviar, Ham, 
Crab, etc., all these come under this 
head. 

Hot Relishes. 

Hora d'Oeuvres Chauds, 
Petits Pat^s au Jus (or small hot 
patties of meats, etc.), Boudins Noirs 
et Blancs (Boudin Sausages, white 
and black). Rissoles, Sausages with 
or without Truffles, Rognons k la 
Brochette, or Broiled Kidneys, Pig's 
Feet, Bouch4es d'Huitres or Oyster 
Patties, Fried Brains (whether of 
mutton or veal). Calfs Feet, Oxtail 
with Vinegar or Mustard Sauce. 



226 



THE PICATUXE CREOI^ COOK BOOK 



Althouerh most of the alcove named 
Hors d'Oeuvres, hot or cold, have 
been already treated in special de- 
partments, whether of vegetables 
or meats, the subjoined recipes have 
been especially prepared, the number 
and variety of Creole Hors d'Oeuvres 
being such as to warrant a special 
chapter on the subject. 



Anchovies in OU. 

Anchoiw d VHuile. 

1 Pint Bottle of Boned Anchovies. 

1 Hard Boiled Egg. 

Chopped Parsley to Garnish. 

Take the contents of one pint bottle 
of boned Anchovies; drain them of all 
oil on a cloth and then arrange neat- 
ly in a flat glass or china dish. 
Decorate nicely with a hard-boiled 
egg, hashed or sliced daintily, sprinkle 
over the top some chopped parsley 
and serve. 

Sardines in OiL 

8ardine$ d VHuile, 

1 Box of Sardines. 
Parsley to Qarnish. 

Take the sardines carefully from 
the box and avoid breaking them. 
Decorate a dish nicely with sprigs of 
parsley or watercress and lay the sar- 
dines upon it and serve. 



CoquiUcs of Chicken, Creole Style. 

CoquUles de Volaille d la Creole. 

The Breast of a Roasted Chicken. 

1 Ounce of Butter. 

1 Truffle. 

4 Mushrooms. 1 Dozen Godiveau 

Quenelles. 

1V& Pints of Espagnole Sauce. 

Grated Bread Crumbs. 

Cut the chicken into dice-shaped 
pieces; place an ounce of butter in 
a saucepan; add the chicken and 
four mushrooms and one truffle 
minced. Make a dozen small Godi- 
veau Quenelles (see recipe), add them 
to the mixture in the saucepan; pour 
over a half pint of Sauce Espagnole 
(see recipe), stir well and let all cook 
for five minutes. Fill a half dozen 
table shells neatly with this mixture. 
Sprinkle grated fresh bread crumbs 
over the tops, spread a little melted 
butter over each and place the shells 
on a baking dish. Let them brown 
to a beautiful golden color in a very 
hot oven for about six minutes. Place 



a folded napkin on a dish, set tlie 
shells upon it and send to the table 
hot. 

Cromesquics With Truffles. 

Cromesquiea auw Truffes. 

1 Roasted Chicken. 2 Truffles. 

1 pint of Velout^e Sauce. 
6 Pieces of Cr^pinette. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. A Dash of 

Nutmeg. 

Roast the chicken, then bone and 
hash the meat. Make a pint of Vel- 
out^e Sauce, chop the truffles very fine 
and place the chicken, the truffles 
and sauce in a frying-pan together. 
Season ta taste with salt and pepper, 
and add a dash of nutmeg. Cover 
and let all cook for ten minutes, occa- 
sionally, however, stirring to prevent 
burning. Then take from the fire 
and let cool by pouring into a flat 
dish. Spread out to about an inch in 
thickness and divide into six parts. 
Prepare six pieces of Cr^pinette and 
roll each one of the six parts of 
chicken into the skin. Have ready a 
flour batter and dip each Cr^pinette 
into the batter and fry in boiling lard 
for five • minutes, or until slightly 
brown. Drain thoroughly on a cloth, 
place a nice folded napkin on a dish. 
Set the comesquies upon it; decorate 
with fried parsley and serve hot. 

Cromesquies of game, veal or any 
meats may be made in the same 
manner. 

Creole Timbales. 

Timbalf Creole; 

2 Raw Chicken Breasts. 

1 Cup of Bread Soaked in Milk. 

% Tablespoonful of Butter. 

The Yolks of Four Eirgs. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Velout^e Sauce. 

Salt and Pepper to Taste. 

6 Plain Pancakes. 1 Gill Espagnole 

Sauce. 

Cut up into medium-sized pieces 
two raw chicken breasts; pound them 
in a mortar with the same quantity 
of bread soaked In milk, a half table- 
spoonful of fresh butter and the yolks 
of four eggs; season with salt and 
pepper and a dash of Cayenne; mix 
all well together, and then, mix in a 
bowl with three tablespoonfuls of 
Velout6e Sauce. (See recipe.) Butter 
one half dozen small tlmbale molds 
and line them with the plain pan- 
cake. (See recipe.) Fill the molds 
with the chicken mixture and cover 
with small round pieces of pancake. 
Steam them in a moderate oven for 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



227 



about ten minutes. Then take out of 
the oven and remove the timbales 
from the mold; grarnish a hot dish 
nicely with sprigs of parsley, place 
the timbales upon it; pour over a gill 
of hot Sauce Espagnole and send to 
the table at once. 



Queen of the Carnival Croustades. 

Crouatades d la Reine du Carnival. 

6 Quenelles (Chicken or Godiveau). 

2 Truffles. 

1 Sweetbread. 6 Kidneys. 

1% Pints of Allemande Sauce. 

^ Pound of Foundation Paste. 

Cracker Dust for Fillingr* 

Prepare six Quenelles, either Chick- 
en or Godiveau (see recipe) and place 
in a saucepan. Season with a little 
salt and pepper. Add the mush- 
rooms and the truffles all cut into 
dice-shaped pieces. Put one and a 
half pints of hot Allemande Sauce 
into the mixture. Let all stand on the 
hot stove for five minutes and in the 
meanwhile spread out a quarter of a 
pound of Foundation Paste (Pat6-a,- 
Foncer, see recipe) to the thickness 
of an eighth of an inch; line six tart- 
let molds with this and fill with crack- 
er crumbs that have been pounded 
into a dust. Cover with a buttered 
paper and set in the oven and bake 
for ten minutes. Then take out, re- 
move all the cracker dust and fill 
the molds with the hot mixture of 
chicken, etc. Set In the oven for 
three minutes, dress nicely on a hot 
dish and serve Immediately. 



Lamb Sweet Breads in Cases. 

Riz de Vcau d'Aoneau en Petites 
Caisses. 

6 Lamb Sweetbreads. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Small Onion. 1 Shallot. 6 Mushrooms. 

% Clove of Garlic. 

1 Tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley. 

1 Cup of Sauce Espagnole. 

Clean and pare and blanch the 
sweetbreads. (See recipe.) Then set 
aside to cool. Lard nicely with very 
fine larding needles. Put two table- 
spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan and 
add the sweetbreads. Spread well 
with onion, shallot, mushrooms, clove 
of garlic and parsley, all minced very 
fine. Cover with a piece of buttered 
paper and set in the oven for ten min- 
utes or until they are a nice golden 
brown color. Then take out of the 
oven and set the sweetbreads aside on 



a dish. Put the saucepan on the 
stove and add a cup of Sauce Espag- 
nole (see recipe). Let all cook for 
five minutes. Have ready six small 
boxes of buttered paper; pour a little 
of the gravy into the bottom of each 
case, then place a sweetbread in each 
and set in a baking dish; put the dish 
in the open oven for five minutes; 
then arrange a napkin nicely in a 
dish, set the cases of sweetbreads 
upon it and send to the table hot. 



Macaroni Croquettes. 

Croquettes de Macaroni. 

% Pound of Macaroni. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

% Tablespoonful of Grated Parmesan 

ChG686 

1 Tablespoonful of Cooked Smoked 

Tongue, Cut Very Fine. 

1 Minced Truffle. 1 Egg. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Grated Fresh 

Bread Crumbs. 

m 

Boil the Macaroni. (See recipe.) 
Then drain well. Put a tablespoonful 
of butter into a saucepan, add the 
Macaroni, and sprinkle over the grat- 
(id cheese and the minced smoked 
tongue and truffle. Toss all together 
nicely and then spread out evenly. 
Then set aside to cool. When cool, 
cut the preparation into six equal 
parts and roll each in grated Parme- 
san cheese, then in a well -beaten 
egg, and afterwards In- freshly- grated 
bread crumbs. Have ready a pan of 
boiling lard, fry the Croquettes in the 
lard for five minutes, then drain well, 
place on a dish on a folded napkin 
and serve hot. 



Royal Salpicon. 

Salpicon Roy ale. 

Sweetbreads. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 
12 Mushrooms. 
2 Truffles. 
1 Pint of Sauce Allemande. 

Clean, pare and blanch the sweet- 
breads. Then cut into very small 
pieces and put them into a saucepan 
with two tablespoonfuls of butter; 
let them saut^ a moment and then 
add the mushrooms and truffles all 
cut very fine. Add a pint of Sauce 
Allemande (see recipe), and let the 
mixture cook on a slow fire for six 
or eight minutes, tossing gently all 
the while. Add a teaspoohful of but- 
ter, stir well and use for any garnish- 
ing desired. 



228 



THK PICAYUNE CREX>IiE: COOK BOOK 



Salpicron, Hunters* Style. 

Salpicon d la Chasseur. 

The Breasts of Two Fine Partridsres. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 12 Whole 

Peppers. 

6 Blanched Chicken Livers. 

1 Carrot. 

H Onion. 

1 Ounce of Cooked Beef Tonsrue. 

2 Truffles. 6 Mushrooms. 

1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Spriff of Thvme. Square Inch of 

Lean Ham. 
IVi Quarts of Consomme or Broth. 

Cut the Breasts of the Partridges 
into dice-shaped pieces, and then put 
them into a saucepan with a table- 
spoonful of butter. Add the blanched 
chicken livers, the truffle cut into 
dice-shaped pieces and the mush- 
rooms cut very line. Have already 
prepared a "Fumet of Game," made 
by placing one carrot, one-half of a 
small onion, one bay leaf, one square 
inch of ham, one sprig of thyme, and 
the carcass of the* partridges into a 
covered saucepan with a tablespoon- 
ful of butter. Let these brown well, 
and when they begin to boil moisten 
with one quart of broth or consomm4, 
and salt and pepper to taste; add 
twelve whole black peppers. Let all 
cook for three-quarters of an hour, 
until it is reduced to a pint, and strain 
through a napkin. Add this to the 
salpicon and let all cook for Ave 
minutes longer. I^^se as a garnish for 
any dish desired. 



Creole Salpicon. 

Salpicon d la Creole. 

2 Dozen Crawfish. 3 Tomatoes. 

1 Dozen Mushrooms. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Pint of Boiling Milk. 

1 Teaspoonful of Grated Nutmeg. 

1 Herb Bouquet. 12 Whole Black 

Peppers. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
Into a saucepan and add the flour; 
stir constantly for about Ave min- 
utes. Then moisten well with the 
milk, pouring it in gradually and then 
whisking. Add the grated nutmeg, 
salt to taste, and the twelve whole 
peppers. Add the herb bouquet 
minced fine, and let all cook for a 
quarter of an hour. Then rub well 
through a sieve; and put Into a sauce- 
pan with the tomatoes, skinned and 
chopped flne, and the meat of the 
crawfish cut into dice-shaped pieces, 
and the minced mushrooms. Let all 
cook for five minutes and serve; 



Ix>uislana Salpicon. 

Salpicon Louisianaise. 
50 Lake Shrimp. 1 Dozen Mushrooms. 
1 Truffle. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 
1 Grated Nutmeg. 1 Herb Bouquet. 
S Tomatoes. 

Clean and scale the Shrimp and 
boll according to recipe. Then fol- 
low in all particulars the recipe given 
above for Salpicon Creole; only add- 
ing a truffle to the minced vegetables. 
Send to the table hot. 

Salpicon k la Montglas. 

BtUpicon d la Montglas. 
The Breasts of Two Small Chickens, or 

Any Game. 

1 Ounce of Lean Ham. 

1 Gill of Espagnole Sauce. 

1 Gill of Tomato Sauce. 

6 Mushrooms. 1 Truffle. 

Mince the breasts of the chicken 
or game very flne, mince the ham 
truffles and mushrooms, and put all 
into a saQcepan with a gill of Sauce 
Kspagnole. Let all cook for five min- 
utes, and then use as a garnish. 

Salpicon, Financier Style. 

Salpicon d la Financi^re. 
The Legs and Breasts of a Chicken. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Dozen Small Godiveau Quenelles. 

1 Square Inch of Ham. 1 Truffle. 

8 Mushrooms. 

1 Pint of Sauce Espagnole. 

Cut the chicken into dice-shaped 
pieces, and put into a saucepan with 
the butter, add the square inch of 
ham, the truffles and mushrooms, all 
minced flne; then add twelve small 
Oodiveau Quenelles. (See recipe.) 
Add a pint of Sauce Espagnole (see 
recipe); set on the stove, and let all 
cook for five or eight minutes, and 
the Salpicon is ready to be served 
as a garnish for any dish desired. 

Rccd Bird Patties. 

P6t^8 d' Ortolan 8. 

1 Dozen Reed Birds. 1 Salpicon Royal. 

^ Pound of Foundation Paste. 

Pick and clean the birds and sea- 
son well; then bind each with a thin 
.strip of bacon. Make a Foundation 
Paste (Pftt4-d.-Foncer) and line six 
patty molds with this. Put in a mod- 
erate oven and bake for flfteen min- 
utes; then empty them and let them 
dry well in the open oven for five 
minutes. Let them cool. Then fill 
the bottom of each mold with a table- 
spoonful of Salpicon Royal (see re- 
cipe), and place in each mold two of 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



229 



the nicely prepared birds. Lay the 
patties on a baking dish or roasting 
pan, set them In a moderately hot oven 
and let them roast for fifteen or twen- 
ty minutes. Then remove from the 
oven, moisten each patty with a table- 
spoonful of hot Sauce* Espagrnole, and 
send to the table at once. 

Tamalos. 

Des Tamales. 

1 Tender Young Chicken. 

1 Cup Boiled Irish Potatoes. 

1 Large Onion. 1 Clove of Garlic. 

2 Springs of Parsley. 1 Bay Leaf. 

1 Spring of Thyme. 1 Spoon of Butter. 
1 Cup of Cracker Crumbs. 
Salt and Pepper to Taste. 
A Good Dash of Cayenne. 

Boll a young chicken until the meat 
can be picked off the bones. Then 
chop up very fine. Mince the onion, 
clove of garlic, thyme, bay leaf, and 
parsley, very fine. Put the onion and 
butter Into a saucepan and let brown 
slightly, and add the minced garlic, 
thyme, parsley and bay leaf. Add 
the chicken Immediately, a cup of 
mashed potatoes and one of grated 
cracker crumbs. Stir well, and season 
to taste with salt and Chill pepper. 
Add a good dash of Cayenne for this Is 
a very hot dish. Mix all well by stir- 
ring and let cook for five minutes. 



Have ready a pot of boiling water 
and about a dozen nice, clean corn- 
shuck leaves. Cut the leaves Into 
neat oblong shapes, and divide the 
chicken mixture Into equal parts. Roll 
each part In a corn leaf, tie up 
tightly and Immerse in boiling water 
for five minutes. Then drain off the 
water, arrange the husks on a dish 
and send to the table hot. 

Pickled Tunny 

Thon Marini. 
In New Orleans we get the tunny 
only In Its pickled or other prepared 
states. Take a radish or flat celery 
dish; decorate nicely with fresh pars- 
ley springs, or cress, or asparagus 
tips; lay the tunny upon It, and serve 
as a cold Hors d'Oeuvre. 

Lyonnaise Sausage. 

8auci88on9 de Lyonnaise. 

12 Thin Slices of Lyonnaise Sausage. 
Parsley Springs to Garnish. 

Cut from a medium-sized Lyonnaise 

Sausage twelve nice and very thin 

slices; decorate a dish neatly with 

parsley leaves on the outer edges. 

Lay the Sauclsson de Lyons in the 

center and serve as a cold Hors 

d'Oeuvre. 



CHAPTER XXXI 



SWEET ENTREMEN 





Dc8 EntremenU 8uct6b. 



Sweet entries and entremets are not 
the least part of the real Creole cui- 
sine. The French colonists brought 
the custom of serving sweet entre- 
mets and entries, such as Belgnets, 
Compotes, Souffles Gel6es, etc., from 
the mother country to Louisiana. The 
Creoles applied these to the various 
fruits which abound In Louisiana. 
When the little Creole children, tak- 
ing a peep Into the kitchen, as chil- 
dren will do in every clime, saw that 
the fat and cheery old negro cook 
was going to make Apple Fritters, 
Orange Fritters or cook fried ba- 
nanas for dinner, there was always 



some very endearing term applied to 
the old cuisinlftre, and she never 
failed to respond in the wholesome 
and practical way that the cooks of 
those days did, by handing a golden 
beignet, piled with snowy sugar, to 
the expectant little ones. ' 

FRITTERS. 

Des BeigneU 
The most important rule to be ob- 
served In making fritters, whether of 
fruit or plain, Is to have the batter 
of the proper consistency. This Is 
particularly important in making 
fruit fritters. *'La Pftte & Belgnets," 



230 



THE PICAYUBTE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



must be of sufficient consistency to 
envelop in one single immersion the 
fruit or other substance with which 
it is Intended to make the fritters. 

Fritter Batter, Creole Style. 

Pdtd d Dcigneta d la Creole. 

1 Cup Flour. 2 Kgga. 2 Tablespoonfuls. 

Lemon Juice. M Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Cold Water. 1 Tablespoonful Butter, 

Melted. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs well, and 
add the flour, beating very light. Now 
add the melted butter and the lemon 
juice, and thin with water to the con- 
sistency of a very thick starch. Add 
the whites of eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth, and then dip the fruit into this, 
immersing well at one dipping. Lift 
out with a large cooking spoon, drop 
into the boiling lard, and fry to a 
golden brown. The batter must be 
thick enough to coat the fruit all 
around in one immersion, yet it must 
not be so thick as to be over-heavy 
or tough. 

Many of the Creoles vary the flavor 
of the batter to suit the fruit which 
they intend to make into fritters. A 
fruit fritter must always be sprinkled 
nicely and lightly with powdered 
sugar, and, if served as an entremet, 
it must be hot. Fruit fritters often 
take the place of desserts among the 
poorer Creole families. 

Frcmch Fritter Batter 

PAH d Bcignets d la Francaite. 

1 Cup of Sifted Flour. % Cup of Cold 

Water. 2 Eggs. % Cup of Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Best Olive Oil. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Orange Flower 

Water. M Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Beat the whites well into a stiff 

froth. Beat the yolks of the eggs into 

the flour until very light, and add the 

sugar, blending well. Add orange 

flower water, and beat light, and then 

add the water and oil, making the 

batter of the consistency of a very 

thick starch. Now add the whites 

of the egg, beat well, and proceed 

to drop in the fruit, as in above 

recipe. 

Plain Fritters 

Bcignets dc PdU, 

1 Pint of Flour. 1 Pint of Milk. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 

4 Eggs. The Kind of Half a Lomon. 

% Cup of Sugar. Flavoring to Taste. 

% Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the 
whites separately. Sift the baking 



powder into the flour, and add the 
yolks of the eggs. Beat well and 
add the milk, and flavoring: of 
orange or vanilla to taste. (The fla- 
voring may be omitted altogetlier.) 
Add the rind of a lemon, grated very 
fine, and one-fattlf a teaspoon of salt 
Lastly, add the whites, beaten to a 
stiff froth, and have the batter of such 
consistency that it will pour from the 
spoon. Drop it in the boiling lard 
by large kitchen spoonfuls, and let it 
fry to a golden yellow. (See General 
Directions for Frying.) Lift out with 
a skimmer, drain well and place on a 
heated dish, and sprinkle freely with 
powdered white sugar, and serve hot. 
In arranging the fritters in the aish 
make them rise into a pretty pyramid 
and sprinkle with the sugar. Never 
pierce fritters with a fork, as it "will 
cause the steam to evaporate and make 
them heavy. A fritter that is well 
made should be light and putty. 

Plain Fritter Batter for Meats, 
Poultry, Etc. 

PAtS d Beigneta vour lea Viandca, 1c* 

Volaillea, etc. 

1 Cup of Flour. 1 Cup of Water. 

2 Effgs. % Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the 
flour together, and add the melted 
butter and salt. Then add the water, 
beat very well and Anally add the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Half a teaspoonful of baking 
powder may be added, if desired. If 
the eggs are well beaten, however, 
there will be no need for the baking 
powder. 

This batter is used in making pork. 
kidney or chicken fritters, or fritters 
of left-over meats, and also for all 
meats or fish which must be rolled 
in batter. 

Apple Fritters 

Bcigncta de Pommca. 

3 Fresh Apples. 

Grated Peel of % Lemon. 

Powdered Sugar. 

Peel and core the apples, which will 
be all the nicer if they are a little 
tart. Cut the apples into slices, thick 
or thin according to taste, though 
the thin slices are often er rec- 
ommended. Sprinkle with the grated 
rind of a lemon and with sugar, as de- 
sired, although two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar should be sufficient for the 
rind of half a lemon. Make a 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE CCK)K BOOK 



231 



batter 2l la Creole and hUve ready 
a deep saucepan of boiling lard. 
Drain the apples. Dip the slices 
one at a time, into the batter, lift 
out with a large kitchen spoon, 
drop into the boiling lard, and fry to 
a golden brown. Then lift out with 
a skimmer, and set on a brown paper, 
in the mouth of the oven, and drain. 
Sift powdered white sugar over them, 
and serve hot. piling high in pyra- 
midal shape, and sprinkling again 
with powdered white sugar. Serve 
as an entremet or as a dessert. 

Apiioot Fritters. 

Beigneta d*Abricot8, 

6 Fresh or a Half Can of Apricots. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 

Grated Liemon Peel. 

If the apricots are fresh, peel and 
stone them, and cut into halves. Then 
sprinkle them with the grated rind 
of a lemon and. sugar. Then drain ofC 
the liquor. Make a Fruit Fritter Bat- 
ter & la Creole, and have ready a 
saucepan filled d.eep with boiling lard. 
Dip the apricots, one by one. into the 
batter, and drop from the spoon into 
the lard, and let them fry to a golden. 
. brown. In serving, proceed in exactly 
the same manner as in the directions 
given for Apple Fritters. (See recipe.) 

Banana Fritters 

Beigneta de Bananea. 
3 Bananas. Fritter Batter a la Creole. 
Make a Fritter Batter k la Creole. 
Peel the bananas and then cut them 
In halves. Slice them nicely, always 
lengthwise. Dip In the fritter bat- 
ter, and proceed to cook and serve 
as in the recipe for Apple Fritters. 
The bananas may also be cut Into 
round slices. In this case two or 
three slices at a time must be put 
In each fritter. The lengthwise shape, 
however. Is recommended. 

Brioche Fritters. 

Beigneta de Bridchea. 

3 Small Brioches. 

1 Tablespoonful of Essence of Vanilla. 

Lemon or Orange Flower Watf^. 
Creole Fritter Batter. Powdered White 

Sugar. 

Cut the Brioche (see recipe under 
chapter on Breads) Into slices, more 
or less thin, and soak them In sweet- 
ened milk, to which you have added 
the essence of orange flower water. 



vanilla or lemon. Drop them Into a 
light fritter batter, or simply drop 
them Into boiling lard, fry to a golden 
yellow, sprinkle with white sugar, and 
serve. 

Cherry Fritters 

Beigneta de Ceriaea, 

1 Pint of Fine Cherries. 1 Egg. 

1 Pint of Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Sugar. 

The Rind of a Lemon. 

Prepare the cherries by taking out 
the stones. Make them into a thick 
marmalade. Soak nice slices of bread 
in milk and egg. seasoned well with 
a tablespoonful of sugar and the 
grated rind of a lemon. Spread the 
marmalade over the well-soaked 
slices, making It adhere very thickly 
and closely. Then fry In boiling lard, 
sprinkle lightly with powdered sugar, 
and serve hot. Or mix the cherries In 
Creole Fritter Batter, drop by spoon- 
fuls into the boiling lard, fry to a 
golden brown, drain in the oven, and 
sprinkle with powdered white sugar 
and serve hot. 



Com Fritters 

Beigneta de Farine de Maia. 

1 Pint of Cornmeal. 1 Pint of Boiling 

Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

3 Eggs. M Cup of Sugar. Flavoring 

to Taste. 
% Spoonful of Salt. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the 
cornmeal together, and add the 
melted butter and the milk, stirring 
and beating well. Add the salt and 
any flavoring extract preferred, and, 
last, the whites of the eggs, beaten to 
a stiff froth. Fry In boiling lard, 
dropping the batter by spoonfuls. By 
omitting the sugar you can make nice 
corn cakes to eat with butter. In 
this case do not use the same quantity 
of lard, but fry the cakes on a griddle. 



Elderflower Fritters 

Beigneta d la Fleur de Bureau. 

1 Cup of Tender White Elder Flowers. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 
White of 2 Eggs. Creole Fritter Batter. 

Select a sufilcient quantity of beau- 
tiful, tender white flowers, and soak 
them in the white of two eggs, beaten 
to a snowy froth, and well blended 
with white sugar. Dip them by spoon- 
fuls Into the fritter batter, and fry 
according to directions. 



232 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



Pig Fritters ' 

Beigneta de Figuett. 

1 Pint of Fresh Flgra. 

V^ Cup of Sugrar. 
Creole Fritter Batter. 

Pare the flgrs, talcing off every par- 
ticle of the skin. Then cut up nicely, 
sprinkle with sugar and let them- 
stand for half an hour. Then add 
the juice to fritter batter and proceed 
as in Apple Fritters. (See recipe.) 

Fritters Souffle k la Vanllle 

lieigncta Soufflia d la Vanille 

3 Ounces of Flour. 1 Tablespoonful 

Butter. 

^ Pint of Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Sugar. 

The Yolks of 2 Eggs. The White of 1 

Egg. 

1 Spoonful of Whipped Cream. 

1 Vanilla Bean. Powdered White Sugar. 

Putthe milk into a saucepan and 
infuse the vanilla bean, letting the 
milk reduce to one-half. Then remove 
all the bean, add a tablespoonful of 
butter, and, when it comes to a good 
boil, add the flour, well sifted; stir 
briskly till a stiff paste Is formed that 
will not adhere to the saucepan. Then 
take off the fire and add an ounce of 
powdered white sugar that has been 
beaten well with the yolks of two 
eggs; have ready the white of one egg 
beaten to a stiff froth, and mix a 
spoonful of whipped cream with this, 
and add to the paste. Mix well, and 
then roll the paste out on a flour 
board that has been slightly sprinkled 
with flour, and sprinkle lightly on top 
with the flour. Cut into small cakes, 
drop into very hot lard, and let them 
cook to a golden brown. Then ar- 
range nicely on a dish, sift powdered 
sugar over them, and send to the 
table hot. 

Lemon Fritters 

Beigneta dc Citron. 

1 Pint of Creole Fritter Batter. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

% Cup of Sugar. 

Make a plain Creole batter for fruit 
fritters, and add the Juice of a lemon, 
and sugar to taste, and proceed as di- 
rected in cooking and serving Apple 
Fritters. 

Orange Fritters 

Beigneta d'Orangea. 

2 Large Louisiana Oranges. 
Creole Fritter Batter. 

Pare the oranges, taking off every 
particle of the white inner skin. Then 



slice nicely, and take out the seeds. 
Sprinkle with sugar, and 16t them 
stand for an hour. Then add the 
juice to the fritter batter, and proceed 
as in Apple Fritters. Or. better still, 
place the oranges thus sliced over a 
slow fire, add a little water and sev- 
eral tablespoonfuls of sugar, and let 
them cook till you have a light mar- 
malade. Take It off, let It cool, cover 
the slices of orange well with the 
Jellied Juice, dip in the batter, and 
proceed as directed In recipe for Ap- 
ple Fritters. (See recipe.) 

Peach Fritters 

Beigneta de P^chca. 

6 Fresh or Canned Peaches (% Can). 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 

Grated Lemon Peel. 

If the peaches are fresh, peel and 
stone them, and cut In halves. Then 
sprinkle them with the grated rind of 
a lemon and sugar. Cover and set 
aside for two hours. Then drain off 
the liquor. Make a Fruit Fritter Bat- 
ter k la Creole, and have ready a 
saucepan filled deep with boiling lard. 
Dip the peaches, one by one, into the 
batter, and drop from the spoon into 
the lard, and let them fry to a golden 
brown. Then proceed in exactly the 
same manner of serving as In the 
directions given for Apple Fritters. 
(See recipe.) 

Pear Fritters 

Beigneta de Poirea. 

3 Fresh Pears or 4 Canned Pears. 

Grated Lemon Peel. Powdered Sugar. 

Wash and peel the pears, which 
will be all the nicer If they are a 
little tart. Take out the seeds and 
cores. Cut them Into slices, more or 
less thick or thin, according to taste. 
The thin slices are recommended. 
Sprinkle with the rind of a lemon 
and sugar, according to judgment 
Two tablespoonfuls of sugar should 
be sufHclent. Make a batter & la Cre- 
ole and have ready a deep saucepan 
of boiling lard. Drain the pears. Dip 
the slices, one at a time, into the bat- 
ter; lift out with a large kltchenspoon, 
drop Into the boiling lard, and fry to 
a golden brown. Then lift out with 
a skimmer, and set on brown paper, 
in the mouth of the oven, and drain. 
Sift powdered white sugar over them, 
and serve hot, piling high In pyra- 
midal shape, and sprinkling again 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



233 



with powdered white sugar. Serve 
as an entremet or as a dessert. The 
liquor may be omitted, and the pears 
simply cut into very thin slices; then 
they may be dipped into batter and 
fried. Serve as directed above. 

Pineapple Fritt<>rs 

Beif/ncts d' Ananas. 

% a Pineapple. Fritter Batter. 

^ Cup of Sugar. 

Slice the pineapple, and cut the 
slices In halves. Then proceed as In 
Apple Fritters. Or, simply sprinkle 
with sugrar, let them stand one hour, 
add the juice to the fritter batter, 
and proceed as above. 

Pineapple Cream Fritters 

Beigneta d'Anafiaa d la Crhne. 

U a Pineapple. % Cup of Sugar. 

Cream Puff Paste. 

For these fritters It Is necessary to 
make a Cream Paste. (See recipe.) 
Prepare the pineapple as in the above 
recipe; then dip In the Cream Puff 
Paste and proceed as In Apple Frit- 
ters. (See recipe.) 

Queen Fritters 

BeignHs d la Reine. 
1 Cup Cream Puff Filling. 

A Cream Puff Batter. 

%i Cup of Grated Almonds. 

Peach Sauce. 

Prepare a Cream Puff Batter and 
a Cream Puff Filling. (See recipe.) 
If the flavor of almonds is desired 
add a few finely grated almonds. Have 
ready the frying pan, with boiling 
lard. Roll the cream batter Into small 
balls, and fry till they swell to the 
size of an egg. Skim out with a skim- 
mer, and drain, and, when cold, split 
one side with a very sharp knife, and 
fill with the filling; close, and continue 
till all are filled. Serve cold with 
Peach Sauce. 

Rice Fritters 

Beigneta de Riz. 

1 Cup of Cold Rice. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. Yolks of 2 

Eggs. 
1 Tablefi(poonful of Orange or Lemon 

Essence. 
A Pinch of Cinnamon. 

Take one cup of cold rice, mash It 
well, and then pass through a sieve. 
Season with the orange essence or 
lemon, a pinch of cinnamon, and a 



tablespoonful of butter. Add the beat- 
en yolks of two eggs. Then make the 
rice Into small boulettes or balls, roll 
In a beaten e^^K* fry to a golden 
brown, sprinkle with white sugar and 
serve. 

Sago Croquettes 

Croquettes dc Sagou. 

Equal Parts of Sago Marmalade and 

Rice Croquettes. 

Creole Fritter Batter. 

Sauce. 

Prepare Croquettes of Rice (see 
recipe), adding equal parts of Sago 
Marmalade. Dip in fritter batter, and 
fry to a golden brown, and serve with 
a sauce. 

Strawberry Fritters 

Beigneta de Fraiaea 

1 Pint of Fine, Large Strawberries. 
Grated Rind of ^ Lemon. 

For this purpose have fine, large 
strawberries. Make a Fritter Batter 
fi. la Creole, only just before adding 
the whites of the eggs add the grated 
rind of half a lemon. The batter 
must be of the consistency of thick 
cream. Stem the strawberries, and 
drop them Into the batter. Proceed 
to fry as In recipe given for Apple 
Fritters (see recipe), allowing two or 
three strawberries to each fritter. Or 
make a marmalade of the straw- 
berries, keeping them whole, and pro- 
ceed as In Orange Fritters. (See 
recipe. ) 

Sweet Omelet Fritters 

Beigneta d'Otnelette au Sucre 

A Plain Omelet. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 

Creole Fritter Batter. Powdered White 

Sugar. 

Make an omelet (see recipe), and 
add two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Cook 
It nicely and very soft, and then cut 
It Into small slices. Plunge these Into 
the fritter batter, let them fry to a 
golden brown, and then drain In tho 
mouth of the oven on brown pepper. 
Place In a heated dish, sprinkle well 
with fine white sugar, and serve hot. 

Stewed Apples 

Compote de Pommea. 

6 Apples, Large and Firm. 
Sugar to Taste. The Rind of Half an 

Orange. 

1 Blade Mace. 

1 Stick Ground Cinnamon. 4 Ground 

Allspice. 

Pare the apples and cut Into quar- 
ters or semi-quarters, removing the 



234 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOfiC 



cores and seeds. Add half a cup of 
water. Put them into an agate or a 
porcelain-lined saucepan, and strew 
generously with sugar. Let them sim- 
mer gently for half an hour. Then 
add the rind of half an orange, 
grated, and the ground spices. Let all 
simmer gently tHl they form a rich, 
tender compote, that is, until there is 
not the least part left underdone. This 
compote may be served hot during the 
meal, or it may be used as a dessert, 
with cream or milk. Apples may be 
stewed whole in the same manner, 
only remember to extract the core 
with a fine knife. 

Baked Apples • 

Pomme8 Rdtict. 

6 Fine Apples. 
6 Spoonfuls of Sugar. 1 Cupful of 

Water. 

Cut the blossom end of the apple, 
and wash, but do not peel. Set them 
in a baking pan, heap a spoonful of 
sugar over each in the little place 
scooped out at the blossom end, and 
pour a cupful of water in the bottom 
of the pan. Set in the oven, and bake 
till very tender, basting them very 
often to keep them soft. Place in a 
dish, pour over the syrup, and serve 
either hot or cold. They are much 
nicer served cold, with a glass of milk. 
They are then used as a dessert. 

Fried Apples 

Pommea Frites, 

3 Fine Apples. Boiling Lard. 

ySt Cup of White Powdered Sugar. 

Pare the apples and cut into round 
slices. Fry them to a delicate golden 
brown in a pan of boiling lard. Place 
them in a heated colander, in which 
you have fitted a piece of brown pa- 
per. Drain in the mouth of the oven. 
Place in a dish, and sprinkle with 
sugar, and serve hot with roast meat, 
roast pork, etc. 

Apple Charlotte 

Charlotte de Pommea. 

6 Large Apples. 6 Apricots. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Cup of Sugar, or Sugar to Taste. 

Pare the apples and then cut them 
into slices, taking out the seeds and 
cores. Now put them in a saucepan 
with three large tablespoonfuls of 
butter. Add a little water to stew 



gently, and add the apricots, if 3^ou 
have them. In this case use Tour 
tablespoonfuls of butter and ground 
cinnamon, and allspice to taste. X.»et 
all cook to a nice marmalade. Tben 
take off and add a quarter of a grated 
nutmeg. Then cut six slices of bre&d 
and butter well. Butter a pan and 
garnish it around the bottom and 
sides with the slices of bread, whicli 
must be very thin. Then fill with tlie 
apples, and cover on top with the 
bread. Dot with butter and sprinkle 
with sugar, and put in an oven and 
bake to a golden brown. When done» 
carefully loosen the edges and turn 
into a dish. Serve it hot, with sugar 
and cream, or with a Custard Sauce. 
(See recipe.) 

Cherry Charlotte 

Charlotte de Ceriaea. 

1 Pound Cherries. 1 Pound White Sugar. 

2 Tablespoonfuls ox; Butter. 

Soft Bread Crumbs. 

Seed the cherries, and butter the 
bottom of a pudding dish. Cover the 
bottom with a layer of the bread 
crumbs, which must be soft. Then 
add a layer of the cherries, which 
have been cooked like the apples, Into 
a marmalade. Sprinkle with sugar, 
and add another layer of cherries, and 
then a layer of bread crumbs, alter- 
nating till the dish is filled, letting the 
last layer be of crumbs, which you 
must dot with bits of butier. Put in 
an oven and bake for an hour. Serve 
cold with cream. 



Currant Charlotte 

Charlotte de OroaeiUea. 

1 Pound of Currants. 

1 Pound of White Sugar. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Soft Bread Crumbs. 

Proceed exactly as for Cherry Char- 
lotte, making a marmalade of the 
currants, and using the same propor- 
tion as above. 



Raspberry or Blaekborry Charlotte 

Charlotte de Framboiaea ou de MArea. 

1 Pound of Raspberries or Blackberries. 

1 Pound of White Sugar. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Soft Bread Crumbs. 

Stew the berries, making a marma- 
lade, and proceed exactly as in the 
recipe for Cherry Charlotte. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



235 



Fniit Toasts With Cherries, Apricots 
or Raspberries 

Cronies de Fruits aux Cerises, aua Abri- 

cots ott aux Framhoises. 

6 Slices of French Toast. 1 Cup of 

Fruit Marmalade. Cream to Serve. 

Prepare thin slices of very dry 

French toast, and butter generously. 

Put them in a dish, and lay on each 

slice generous portions of the fruits 

you wish to serve. The fruit must be 

made into a marmalade. Pour any 

left-over syrup over the toast, and 

serve with cream. 

Fried Bananas 

Bananes Frites. 
4 Bananas. Boiling Lard. 
White Powdered Sugar. 
Peel the bananas, and cut them in 
two, lengthwise. Then slice length- 
wise about a quarter of an inch in 
thickness. Have ready a pan of boil- 
ing lard. Lay the bananas In it, and 
fry brown first on one side and then 
on the other, sifting with a litUe 
powdered sugar. When done, skim 
out of the pan, place neatly in a dish, 
sprinkle with powdered sugar again, 
and serve hot, as an entr§e. The 
banana stalls in the French Market 
are famous, and at every corner or 
so, here and there throughout the 
city, there are fruit stands, where the 
banana is always to be found in a 
perfect state, and very fresh and in- 
viting. Bananas are also served In 
their natural state, as a fruit dessert. 

Orange Salad 

Balade d' Oranges. 

6 Fine Louisiana Oranges. 

% Pound of Powdered Sugar. 

Peel the oranges whole, removing 

the rind entirely down to the tips of 

the stem end. Cut In slices, and cut 

out the seeds. Pile the oranges In a 

neat heap In a dish. Sprinkle with 

powdered sugar. Boll some sugar 

to a syrup, using about half a pound 

to a half pound of oranges and. when 

cold, pour It over the fruit. 

Stewed Peaches 

Compote de Peches. 

10 Medium- Sized Peaches. 

1 Pint of Cold Water. 

y^ Pound of Granulated Sugar. 

Peel the peaches and cut them Into 

quarters, carefully removing the 

stones. Put them Into a saucepan. 

with a pint of cold water and a half 

pound of granulated sugar; set on the 



stoy,e, and, when they begin to boil, 
skim well. Then let them cook for 
six minutes longer, stirring slowly; 
avoid mashing the peaches. Remove 
from the fire and pour the peaches 
into a dessert dish to cool. Serve 
cold, either plain or with cream. The 
peaches may be. boiled whole. 

DOUGHNUTS 

Croxignolles. 

% Cup Sugar. 1 Pint of Milk. 3 Eggs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

% Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Flour in Sufilclent Quantity to Make a 

Dough. 

Scald the milk, and then add the 
butter, and let It stand and cool. 
When It has cooled, add the yeast and 
the sugar, and beat In the flour grad- 
ually. Beat well, and then cover, and 
set the mixture in a warm place over 
night. But be careful to have the 
warmth only moderate. In the morn- 
ing beat the eggs till very light, and 
stir them Into the butter. Then add 
more flour, sufilclent to make a dough, 
which must be soft. Knead this dough 
lightly, then put It away to rise. 
When It has risen well take one-half 
of the dough and roll It on the biscuit 
board, and then cut Into doughnuts, 
using a large cake or biscuit cutter. 
Then take a small cutter and make 
a small hole in the center of each 
doughnut. They may also be cut Into 
square shape, and slashed gently with 
the cutter or knife. Spread a clean 
towel over the table, and dust It light- 
ly with fiour, and let the doughnuts 
stand upon It for half an hour, being 
well covered. Let the frying kettle 
then be ready with boiling fat or lard. 
It must be so deep that the doughnuts 
can swim In It. Put the doughnuts 
Into the boiling lard, and let them 
fry to a golden brown. Do not stick 
the doughnut through with a fork or 
It will fall Immediately. When a beau- 
tiful dark golden brown drain out of 
the pan with a skimmer, place on a 
hot dish, sprinkle with powdered 
sugar, and serve hot. You will have 
the true Creole "Croxlgnolle." 

PANCAKES 

Crapes. 

8 Eggs. % Pound of Sugar. 

4 Cups of Flour. 1 Cup of Milk. 

14 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Beat the yolks and whites of the 
eggs together. Then add the flour, 



236 



THE PICAYLNJB CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



and beat very light. Add the milk, 
pouring gradually, and having the 
batter no thicker than cream. Add 
the salt, and mix well. Now comes 
the most important part, the frying. 
Unless this is properly done your la- 
bor has come to naught. Have a 
wide pancake pan, and let It be very 
hot. Grease it with butter, or, better 
still, with a piece of fat bacon. This 
is the safest way, as you will not 
have a prncake swimming in grease, 
a most undesirable offering at any 
table. Pour in batter sufficient to Just 
cover the bottom of the pan. In a 
minute, or perhaps less time, the cake 
must be ready to turn. This Is the 
critical moment that the old Creole 
cooks used to understand so well. By 
a peculiar sleight of hand that comes 
only by experience, the cake was 
tossed and caught in the pan, and the 
brown side was brought up without 
failure, and the cake lay just as 
smooth as though untouched. Those 
who wish to learn the art must begin 
slowly at first. If you have never 
tossed a pancake, and attempt to do 
it before you have caught the trick, 
you will make a miserable failure, 
and have only a mingled heap of bat- 
ter. Go slowly, and learn. The old 
darkies used to say, when one of their 
number could toss a *'crOpe" to the 
top of the chimney and bring it down 
again slick and smooth, with the 
brown side up. tossing minute after 
minute, "like lightning,*' that the 
woman was "for sure one hoodoo, 
and the old devil himself had taught 
her to toss and fry." But the pan- 
cakes thus tossed savored neither of 
fire nor brimstone, and, when rolled 
up with infinite art and served very 
hot on a dainty china dish, they well 
merited the praises that masters and 
mistresses bestowed upon their faith- 
ful old slaves. "Crfipes" may be served 



as an entree at breakfast, dinner or 
supper. They make an excellent 
luncheon dish. 

French Pancakes 

Crapes d la Francaise. 

% Pound of Flour. 4 Eggs. 

^ Pint of Cold Milk. 

4 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 

Sift the fiour into a bowl. Break 
in the eggs; beat well, and add one 
ounce of powdered sugar. Mix* thor- 
oughly with a spatula, and then add 
the cold milk, pouring it in gradually. 
Mix well for six minutes. Have ready 
a clean griddle; butter lightly, and, 
when hot, drop on it about two large 
spoonfuls of the batter at a time. Let 
the cakes bake two minutes on each 
side, and then turn and bake two 
minutes on the other. Lay the pan- 
cakes on a dish; sprinkle generously 
with powdered sugar. Continue bak- 
ing the cakes as fast as possible, 
sprinkling each in turn with the pow- 
dered sugar till all the batter is used. 
The above quantity will make one 
dozen pancakes. 

French Pancakes With Jelly 

Cr6pe8 FrancaiscH d la GClee, 

% Pound of Flour. 4 Eggs. 

% Pint of Cold Milk. 

4 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 

1 Glass of Jelly. 

Prepare the batter exactly as in the 
above recipe. When the pancakes are 
nicely cooked arrange them neatly on 
a dish, and spread over each a half 
tablespoonful of apple, strawberry, 
currant, peach or any kind of jelly 
desired; then roll them up nicely, put 
them on a dessert dish and sprinkle 
powdered white sugar over them. 
Send to the table hot. Some glaze 
the surface of each pancake with a 
red hot iron. But this is a matter of 
taste entirely. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



287 



CHAPTER XXXII 




Dea De98ert8. 



Desserts are many and varied. They 
comprise Compotes. Puddings, Pies 
and Pastry, Cakes, Ices, Creams, etc., 
all of which are specially treated In 
their own order. 

COMPOTES 

Dea Compotea, 

Compotes are fruits preserved In 
very little sugar, and made as needed 
In the household. The fruits are al- 
ways blanched, and a little sugar Is 
added for them to absorb, and then 
they are put Into dishes, and the 
syrup Is poured over them. The Cre- 
oles often cut the fruits into many 
pretty shapes, especially apples and 
peaches. It is always better to blanch 
the fruits In thinned syrup than In 
water. To preserve the whltness of 
the peeled fruits they should be peeled 
as rapidly as possible, and put Into 
the saucepan with the water or syrup 
and blanched only long enough to 
soften, then arranged In the dish 
and covered with the syrup. If the 
fruits are not , ripe, they ought to be 
put Into syrup over the fire to cook 
a little. 

All Compotes may be served as des- 
serts or entrements. 

Compote of Apples 

Compote de Pomtnea. 

1 Dozen Apples. 1 Pound of Sugar. 
1 Cup of Water. 

Pare the apples, cut them In quar- 
ters, cut out the cores, and pierce 
them several times, to drain the juice. 
Boll six cored apples in one pound of 
sugar and a cup of water, and add the 
finely cut peel of a lemon, together 
with the lemon juice. When they are 
well blanched, take them out, without 
letting them cook too much, and place 
them in a dish. They must be soft, 
but not pithy. Put the apples that 
you have cut Into quarters into the 
syrup, and let them boll to a jelly In 



the juice. Then drain well, and pour 
over the whole apples. Sprinkle with 
a little grated nutmeg and powdered 
sugar. This Is excellent. 

To make a compote of whole ap- 
ples, first remove the core Its whole 
length, by Inserting a long tin cutter 
at one end, then at the other end, 
and with the finger forcing the core 
out. In this way you will not split 
the apple. Finish as In the above 
recipe. 

Stuffed Apple Compote 

Compote de Pomtnfa Farciea. 

1 Dozen Apples. 1 Pound of Sugar. 

1 Cup of Orange or Apricot Marmalade. 

Cup of Water. 

y% Teaspoonful of Ground Cinnamon. 

^ of a Grated Nutmeg. 

Pare fine, large apples, take out the 
core, being careful to leave the apple 
entire. Then fill the opening with 
orange or apricot marmalade, and put 
them together In a pan with a pound 
of clarified sugar. Add a half cup of 
water. Let them cook soft In the 
oven, sprinkling first with grated cin- 
namon. Add grated nutmeg when 
done, and serve either hot or cold. 

Apricot Compote 

Compote d*Abricota. 

1 Dozen Apricots. 1 Pound of ^gar. 
% Pound of Apple Jelly. 

Cut the apricots In two, and peel. 
Rinse them in cold water, and then 
proceed to cook them in syrup made 
of sugar and a little water. Add a 
little Apple Jelly to the sugar after 
you have taken out the apricots. Mix 
the jelly well with the syrup, pour 
over the apricots and serve. 

Banana Compote 

Compote de Bananea. 

1 Dozen Bananes. % Pound of Sugar. 

The Juice of Half a Lemon. 

% Cup of Water. 

Peel the Bananas and cut them Into 
halves. Put the sugar and the water 



mtm 



238 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



on to boil, and after ten minutes add 
the lemon Juice. Then put the ba- 
nanas, a few at a time. Into the hot 
syrup and let them stew gently. After 
a half hour taHe them out, lay in a 
dish, pour over the hot liquid syrup, 
and. serve either hot or cold. 



Compote of Banana Cassa 

Compote de Banane Ccfaaa. 

1 Banana Cassa. 
1% Pounds of Granulated Sugar. 

1 Quart of Water. 

% Teaspoonful Each of Ground 

Allspice, Cinnamon and Mace. 

% Grated Nutmeg. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla or Lemon 

Extract. 

The "Banana Cassa" is a form of 
vegetable fruit that is very much used 
among the Creoles in making com- 
potes, etc. It grows on a vine similar 
to the gourd of "Mirliton," only, un- 
like the latter, it is considered a fruit, 
and is served as a dessert. It is a 
long, pear-shaped fruit, resembling 
the banana in color and odor and 
shape, only it is longer and broader. 
Hence the name, "Banana Cassa." It 
is prepared as follows: 

Wash the ripe fruit, peel it, and cut 
into slices of about an Inch in thick- 
ness. Remove the seeds and place 
the fruit in a bowl of water, to which 
has been added a pinch of lime; 
or simply immerse in lime-water. Let 
It soak for 4hree hours. Then remove 
it and rinse in cold water. Prepare 
a syrup, allowing one and a quarter 
pounds of granulated sugar to one 
quart of water, and when it begins to 
boil well add the fruit, ground spices 
and nutmeg, and let all boil until the 
fruit becomes transparent. If flavor- 
ing is preferred to the natural taste, 
add, according to taste, a tablespoon- 
ful of Extract of Lemon or Vanilla. 
Let it cool and serve as a dessert. 
It is delicious with Whipped Cream. 

Compote of Blackberries 

Compote de Mdrca. 

1 Pound of Blackberries. 

% Pound of Sugar. 

% a Cup of Water. 

Select fln^ berries, but not too ripe. 
Wash them in cold water, and drain 
through a sieve. Boil the sugar and 
water, add the berries, and let them 
boil up once very gently. Pour them 
into a dish, pour the jelly over and 
serve. 



Cherry Compote. 

Compote de CeriseM 

1 Quart of Cherries. % Pound of Sugar. 
% Cup of Water. 
To one pound of stoned cherries 
allow the above amount of sugar. Put 
the sugar and water into a saucepan, 
and when it makes a syrup add the 
cherries. Let them boil up several 
times. Then drain them with the 
skimming spoon, and put them in a 
dish, adding to the juice a glassful 
of Currant Jelly. Let it boil lo a thin 
jelly, and pour it, when half cold, over 
the cherries. The Currant Jelly may 
be omitted and the reduced cherry 
syrup used alone. 

Compote of Cocoannt 

Compote de Coco. 

1 Cocoanut. The Juice of 1 Lemon. 
% Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Pound of Pine White Loaf Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Extract 

Divide the cocoanut into quarters. 
Peel off all the brown skin, and then 
soak the clean, white pieces in cold 
water, with a little lemon juice and 
a little salt. Cut them in thin slices 
first, and then in thick threadlike 
shreds, just as you would vegetables 
for Julienne soup. This must be done, 
however, before soaking in the lemon 
juice and salt. Then drain the shreds 
in a clean sieve, and wash them in 
another water, to free them entirely 
from oil. Drain well. Boil one pound 
of the finest white loaf sugar. Then 
remove it from the fire, and throw in 
the prepared cocoanut, and set back 
on the fire. Let it come to a good 
boil, stirring lightly with a silver fork. 
Then lift them out with the fork, after 
they have boiled up ohce, and place 
the cocoanut shreds in a sieve. Let 
the sugar boil up well again. Add 
the juice of a lemon to the syrup, ^ 
boil it very thin, and then throw in 
the cocoanut shreds, mixing them 
very lightly in the syrup. Separate 
the shreds carefully with two silver 
forks, holding one fork in each hand; 
dish up in a raised pile in a dish; 
when cold, pour over the clear syrup' 
flavoring with any extract you wish, 
preferably Vanilla, and serve. 

Compote of Cranberries 

Compote d'AireUea. 

1 Quart of Cranberries. 1% Pounds of 

Sugar. The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Wash and drain the cranberries. 

Then boil as in Cranberry Jelly, only 



THE PICAYUXE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



239 



do not let the cranberries get mashed. 
Take them out with a skimmer, and 
add a half pound of sugar to th^ 
&yrup, and the Juice of a lemon. Boil 
to a syrup and pour over the berries 
and serye cold. 

Compote of Currants 

Compote de QroaeUlea. 

1 Quart of Currants. % Pound of Sugar. 
% Cup of Water. 

Select nice berries and pick clean 
and wash well in cold water and drain 
them through a sieve. Boil the sugar 
and add the berries. Let them boll up 
once very gently. Put them in a dish, 
pour the syrup over them and serve. 

Compote of Damsons 

Compote de Prunes. 

1 Quart of Damsons. 

% Pound of Sugar. % Cup of Water. 

Pick off the stems of the damsons 
and prick them all over with a fork. 
Let them simmer In sugar, which has 
been well boiled to a syrup for about 
fifteen minutes. Then proceed as in 
a Compote of Cherries. (See recipe.) 

Compote of Dried Fruits 

Compote de Fruits Sees, 

% Pound of 'Dried Fruit. 

% Pound of Sugar. % Cup of Water. 

The Juice of 1 Lemoh. 

All dried fruits, such as apples, 
peaches, apricots, crab apples, etc., 
are prepared in the same manner as 
compote of apples and peaches. Only 
allow the dried fruit to soak in cold 
water a long while, say about two 
hours, to swell up. Then boil, and 
afterwards pour into a syrup of boil- 
ing sugar, and proceed as in other 
compotes. 

Compote of Figs 

Compote de Figues. 

1 Quart of Figs. % Cup of Water. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Use figs that are not quite ripe. 
Break off the stalks, and prick them 
all over, and let them simmer in a 
syrup, as above. Then proceed in ex- 
actly the same manner as for Com- 
pote of Cherries. (See recipe.) 

Figs, Creole Style 

Figues d la Creole. 

1 Quart of Ripe Figs. 
% Pound of Sugar. 

Stem and peel and cut the flirs in 
quarters. (Figs are always abundant 



with us in August and September.) 
Place in a dish, sprinkle well with 
sugar, and serve with their own 
syrup, ice cold. 

Compote of Lemons 

Compote de Citrons. 

^ Dozen Lemons. 
1 Pound of Sugar. 1 Cup of Water. 

A Compote of whole lemons is pre- 
pared in exactly the same manner as 
the above, using twice the amount of 
sugar, or sugar to taste. When 
squeezed thoroughly and boiled they 
make an excellent remedy for colds 
and coughs. 

Compote of Malaga Grapes 

Compote de Raisins Blancs. 

1 Pound of Malaga Grapes. 
% Pound of Sugar. V6 Cup of Water. 

Wash the grapes, then cut a slit in 
each one on the side, and take out 
the seeds. Put the fruit in cold water, 
and let it boil. Take off the fire, and 
let it stand uncovered for a time, and 
then put in cold water. When cold 
lift them out with a skimming spoon. 
Put the grapes in clarified sugar, 
which has been well boiled almost to 
a thread, and let therft boil up once. 
Skim them out -and put In a dish. Boil 
the sugar to half the quantity in 
syrup, pour it over them and serve. 

Compote of Japan Plums 

Compote de Mcspilus. 

1 Quart of Mespilus. 1% Cups of Water. 

% Pound of Sugar. 

Juice of 1 Lemon. 

This Is a species of delicious Japan 
Plum very common in Louisiana. 
Peel, stone and proceed In exactly the 
same manner as for Compote of Cher- 
ries. (See recipe.) 

Compote of Oranges 

Compote d'Oranges. 

1 Dozen Louisiana Oranges. 
1 Pound of Sugar. The Juice of Half 

a Lemon. 
% Cup of Water. 

Peel the oranges, and cut them into 
halves crosswise, and take out the 
seeds and the inner pulp. Put the 
sugar and the water on to boil, and 
after ten minutes add the lemon 
Juice. Then put the oranges, a few 
at a time Into the hot syrup, and let 
them stew gently. After a half hour 



240 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



take them out, lay in a dish, pour 
over the hot liquid syrup and serve 
either hot or cold. 

Compote of Whole Oraii|?es 

Compote d'Oratiffes Entidrea 

1 Dozen Louisiana Oran^res. 
1 Pound of Sugar. 

Boil the oranges, with their peel, 

gently in water for twenty minutes. 

Turn the oranges very thinly and 

spirally, scoring out, if possible, all 

the inner pulp and peeling. Make a 

syrup by boiling the sugar, and a.dd 

the oranges. Let them simmer for 

twenty minutes longer. Take off, and 

allow them to remain in their own 

juice for several hours. Di.sh them 

up in a compote dish, and pour over 

them the syrup just as they are sent 

to the table. 

Oranges, Creole Style 

Oranges d la Cr6ole. 

1 Dozen Fine Louisiana Oranges. 
V^ Pound of Sugar. 

Peel the oranges and cut In slices, 

and sprinkle with sugar, to form a 

syrup. Let them .stand for several 

hours In a cool place, and serve either 

as a preliminary to breakfast or as a 

dessert. 

Compote of Peaches 

Compote de P^ches. 

1 Dozen Peaches. 1 Pound of Sugar. 
% Cup of Water. 

Take well-grown, somewhat unripe 
peaches. Then cut them in two, and 
take out the stones. Put the peaches 
into boiling water, and let them stand 
till they are soft, and then throw in 
cold water till cold. Peel them and 
put them into the sugar, adding a lit- 
tle water, and let them boil up sev- 
eral times. Then drain with the skim- 
mer, lifting them on to the dish gent- 
ly. Pour over the reduced syrup, and 
serve with milk or whipped cream. 

Compote of Pears. 

Compote dc Poires, 

, 7 Large, Fine Pears. 
1 Pound of Sugar. The Juice of a Lemon. 
1^ Cup of Water. 

Scrape the pears spirally from head 
to stalk with a tapering tin cutter, 
to take out the cores. Then put the 
sugar and one-half cup of water on 
the fire, and add to it four or five 
pears, which have already been cut 
into pieces. As this forms a syrup 



place the whole pears in it, and let 
them simmer, adding the lemon juic^ 
to keep them white. When done, 
place the pears in order in a di^lL. 
Let the syrup stew down to a nice 
jelly, and then pour over and serve. 
Apple jelly may be spread over tlie 
pears first, and the syrup poured 
afterwards. Ths increases the flavor 
of this delightful compote. 

Compote of Plums 

Compote de Pranca. 

1 Quart of Plums. 

% Pound of Sugar. % Cup of W^ter. 

Pick off the stems of the plums and 
prick them all over with a fork. Let 
them simmer in sugar, which has 
been well boiled to a syrup for about 
fifteen minutes. Then proceed as in 
a Compote of Cherries. (See recipe.) 

Compote of Pineapple 

Compote d*Anana§. 

1 Pineapple. % Pound of Sugar. 
% Cup of Water. 

Peel the pineapple and cut in slices* 
very thin. Put it into a syrup made 
of half a pound of sugar, and let it 
boil up once. Take out, and let the 
syrup simmer a few minutes longer, 
pour over the pineapple, and serve. 

Another method is to slice the pine- 
apple nicely, place in a dish, sprinkle 
with powdered white sugar, let the 
pineapple form a natural syrup and 
serve. This is delicious. 



Compote of Plantain, Creole Style 

Compote de Plantain d la Criole. 

6 Plantains. 

% Pound of Sugar. 

The Juice of Half a Lemon. 

1 Cup of Water. 

Peel the plantains and cut into 
halves or quarters. Put the sugar and 
water on to boil. and. after ten min- 
utes, add the lemon juice. Then put 
the pieces of plantain, a few at a 
time, into the hot syrup, and let them 
stew gently. After half an hour, or 
forty-five minutes if not tender take 
them out, lay in a dish, pour over 
the hot syrup, and . serve either hot 
or cold. 

The plantain is a variety of banana, 
and may be prepared in every manner 
in which bananas are cooked, such as 
fried bananas, stewed bananas, ba- 
nana fritters, pudding, cake and pie. 



TILE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



241 



(See recipe.) Unlike the banana, 
however, the plantain is never eaten 
raw, as it is a fruit of much coarser 
fiber; but, when cooked, it equals the 
banana in delicacy of taste. 

Compote of Plantain, Old Style 

Compote de Plaintain d VAncienne Mode. 

6 Plantains. 

% Pound of Sug^ar. 

Have ready a pile of hot ashes in 
the oven. Put the plantains (un- 
peeled) into the oven and cover well 
with ashes. Let them roast thus for 
half an hour; then take out, peel, 
cut into quarters and sprinkle with 
sugar. Set in the oven a few minutes 
and serve hot with a sauce. 

Compote of Pome^anates 

Compote de Grenades. 

1 Dozen Pomegrranates, 

% Pound of Sugar. 

% Cup of Water. 

1 Tablespoonful of Orange Juice. 

Cut a circle the size of a five- 
cent piece out of the peel of the pome- 
granate, using a sharp-pointed knife. 
Then split down the sides of their 
skins, and carefully remove all the 
bright ruby pips, without bruising 
them. Throw these into a dish. Make 
a syrup, flavored with orange juice, 
pour it over them and serve. 

Compote of Prunes 

Compote de Pruncaujp. 
1 Pound of Prunes. % Pound of Sugar. 
Soak the prunes over night in cold 
water, and drain. Put them into a 
saucepan with water, cover the sauce- 
pan, and let them boil over a moder- 



ate fire. When they begin to soften, 
add a quarter of a pound of sugar. 
Let it boil, stirring frequently, till the 
prunes are cooked well. Then take 
them from the fire, rub a lump of 
sugar over an orange or a lemon, and 
whefi it is completely saturated with 
the rind, put into a dish, pour the 
prunes in with their juice, and serve 
cold. 

It is not absolutely necessary to 
soak the prunes over night, but they 
cook much more easily if you do. 
Prunes are very healthy and are 
served twice a week in every convent 
in New Orleans. 

Stewed prunes are prepared in ex- 
actly the same manner as above, only 
the sugar is put on with the prunes 
from the first 



Compote of Raspberries. 

Compote de FrdynboUes. 

1 Quart of Raspberries. % Pound of 

Sugar. 

Select fine Raspberries, but not too 
ripe. Wash them in cold water, and 
drain through a sieve. Boil the sugar, 
and add the berries, and let them boil 
up once very gently. Put them into a 
dish, pour the Jelly over, and serve. 

Strawberry Compote. 

Compote de Fraisea. 

1 Quart of Strawberries. %, Pound of 

Sugar. 

Select fine strawberries, but not too 
ripe. Wash them in cold water, and 
drain through a sieve. Boil the sugar, 
and add the berries and let them boil 
up once very gently. Put them into a 
dJsh, pour the jelly over and serve. 



242 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER XXXm 



R^STRY AND 




PAUsaerie. 



The most important point In mak- 
ing pastries of all kinds is to have 
the pastry crust of the proper con- 
sistency. The crust of pies should al- 
ways be light, flaky and delicately 
crisp. To attain this end only the 
best flour should be used. In making 
Puff Paste, always use ice water. In 
making pie crust, use tepid water if 
you wish the best results. The great 
secret of all pastry depends upon the 
proper manipulation with the fingers. 

Puff Paste 

Pdte Feuill€t6e. 

1 Pint of Flour. 

1 Pound of Good Butter or Half Lard 

and Half Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Cup of Ice Water. 1 Egg. 

Have the flour dry and fresh and 
the butter of the sweetest. Wash the 
butter well, till it becomes clear and 
elastic to the touch, cut it into four 
equal parts, and place it in a bowl, 
which has already been cooled with 
ice water. Set it away to cool and 
harden. Have your flour sifted and 
ready, and the egg beaten and at 
hand. Put the flour into a bowl and 
add to it a lump of butter; work it 
with your hand, handling always as 
lightly as possible; add the egg, then 
salt, and, if the paste is intended for 
cakes, a teaspoonful of sugrar. Work 
all well, but very lightly with the fin- 
gers and thumb, and then gradually 
add the ice water, working it well 
and lightly into the flour. When all 
is worked in, knead lightly for about 
flve minutes, just as though you were 
making bread. Then cut the dough 
into halves; sprinkle the board light- 
ly with flour; take the rolling pin 'and 
roll the paste out very thin, rolling 
each half into a half sheet. Break 
the butter into bits; take about one- 
quarter of the remainder, quickly 
spread this over the paste; then 



dredge it very lightly with flour and 
lay over it the other sheet. Dredge 
this with flour lightly and pound with 
the rolling pin gently; then roll this 
from you into a long thin sheet. 
Spread a thin coating of butter over 
this, and then fold the paste over from 
the sides to the center, and then back 
again, till you have three folds. Then 
turn and roll this again till quite 
thin; add a second quarter of butter 
broken into bits; dredge lightly with 
flour and fold and roll as before, al- 
ways in the same direction — from you. 
Repeat this process, folding and roll- 
ing, till all the butter is used. Then 
cut the paste into three or four parts, 
according to quantity, and set in the 
ice box in tin plates for twenty min- 
utes, or until you are ready to use. 
It may be kept for several days, if 
rolled in a napkin and set in a cool 
place. This Is the paste used in mak- 
ing Vol-au-Vents, small pat4s, etc 
The most important point is the bak- 
ing. The oven should be very hot. 
If you have used all the be.st materials 
that wealth can procure, and yet do 
not have the oven properly heated, all 
your efforts will have been in vain. 
It is always well to bake small pftt^s 
with a strong underheat, thus al- 
lowing them to rise to their full 
height before browning. If the 
oven be too hot, and the paste be- 
gins to brown as soon as put in, 
quickly reduce the temperature. 

It is well to bake the under crust 
first before putting in the filling in 
meat pies. 

In baking small patties, cut the 
dough out with a biscuit cutter, leav- 
ing the outer rounds distinct from 
the center. Remove the center and 
cut out other little rings, and place 
these one on top of the other, above 
the bottom crust, which should be 
solid. In this way is produced the 
effect of each section being crisp and 



rrH£ PICAYT7N£ CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



243 



apparently separate from the other. 
Some use the white of an egg only; 
others omit it entirely. It is optional. 

Pie Crust 

Pdte Bri84e. 

3 Cups of Sifted Flour. 

1V6 Cups of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Salt. 

Nearly a Cup of Tepid Water. 

This quantity will make crusts and 
coveringrs for three ordinary pies. Rub 
the flour and butter very ligrhtly to- 
gether; being careful not to allow it 
to harden under touch; keep on 
kneading a little butter at a time into 
the flour till you have used up all and 
the dough feels greasy to the touch. 
Always remember to add the salt be- 
fore putting in the butter. Some add 
a tablespoonful of sugar, but the 
sweetened filling will be generally 
found sufficient. Then add, little by 
little, the water, kneading gently, till 
you have a nice, soft dough, lifting 
out the portion that is wet and con- 
tinuing to knead as you mix the flour 
and water. Always be very careful in^ 
adding the water, and never wet the* 
flour twice in the same place. Mix all 
together lightly with your hands when 
it is moistened, using always your 
own good judgment in adding water. 
Do not work the dough; simply mix 
lightly and thoroughly, and then 
dredge the board lightly with the flour. 
If you intend to make two pies, cut 
the dough into four parts. Turn the 
paste out upon the board and roll 
lightly and quickly into long, thin 
sheets. Use as little flour as possible 
in rolling, as your dough will grow 
tough the more you work it, and the 
more you add flour and roll it. Cut 
the dough in as many sections as you 
intend to make pies, allowing for an 
upper and an under crust; this will 
obviate the necessity of rolling again. 
Immediately place a sheet of dough 
over each pie pan and trim the edges 
nicely. Set in the stove, let them 
bake lightly, and then add the filling 
of fruits. Place a light thin cover of 
crust over them, and trim the edges, 
decorating them prettily, using the 
end of a fork or spoon, and set in the 
hot oven to bake quickly. When done, 
set to cool. Sprinkle, when cool, with 
powdered white sugar, rolling the loaf 
sugar into a powder, rather than 
using the pulverized kind, if you wish 
a really elegant dish. 



Paste made with lard may be used 
for meat pies and dumplings, and for 
stews and chicken, when cooked with 
dumplings. Only roll very thin. Some 
persons use lard for pie crust, but it 
is not advisable as the crust will 
never have the same flavor as when 
madoiwith butter. Others, again, mix 
the butter and lard. This, too, is to 
be condemned if you hope for the 
best results. 

If any pie crust is left, do not think 
of tht-owing it away. Take all the bits 
left from cutting around the edges of 
the pie pans; roll very thin into small 
squares; bake lightly, and save for 
tea or luncheon. Put a spoonful of 
orange, pineapple, lemon or rasp- 
berry jelly on each square, and they 
will be found delicious. 



Foundation Paste. 

Pdte d Foncer. 

H Pound of Flour. % Pint of Water. 
1 Ounce of Butter. % Teaspoonful 

of Salt. 

Sift the flour well; mix with the 
salt; then rub the flour and butter 
lightly together, being careful not to 
let it harden under the touch. When 
the butter and flour are well kneaded, 
add the water gradually, kneading lit- 
tle by little, till well kneaded. Do 
not work the dough; simply mix gent- 
ly and thoroughly. Flour the table 
lightly, turn the paste out upon it, 
and press In the center and around 
the edges, repeating this operation 
three or four times. Then flatten 
the paste, lay on a dish and cover 
with a towel and set in a cool place 
till ready to use, which should be in 
about twenty-five minutes, at least. 



Plain Paste for Dumplings 

Pdte d Dresser, 

2 Cups of Sifted Flour. 

1 Large Heaping Kitchenspoonful of 

Butter or Lard. 

% Cup of Tepid Wlater. 

^ Teaspoonful of Salt 

Blend the salt and the fiour, and 
then gradually mix in the butter, if 
for apple dumplings or rolls. Use 
lard if intended for dumplings for 
chicken stews, veal stews, etc. Follow 
the same directions given for making 
pie paste. Add the water by degrees, 
using good judgment always, and lift- 
ing the dough out as you wet it, never 



244 



THE PICAYUNE CIIEX>LiE: COOK BOOK 



wettiner twice in the same place. Mix 
and knead llgrhtly, and then sift a 
ligrht coating of flour on the board, 
and roll out with the rolling pin, and 
use for all purposes in this book 
where Plain Paste is indicated. If 
necessary to keep the paste a while, 
place in a napkin in the ice bo& But 
do not use ice water in mixing it, or 
you will have a tough dough. To at- 
tain perfect success in making all 
pastes, mix quickly, knead slightly, 
roll quickly and bake rapidly, using 
always as little flour as possible in 
rolling. Never beat pie crusts or 
plain paste. Tou will harden it and 
make it just the reverse of the light, 
palatable paste you desire. Use this 
paste for chicken dumplings, meat 
dumplings and apple dumplings, roll- 
ing out the dough exceedingly thin 
in small pieces of about two and a 
half inches in length, one in width, 
and at least one-eighth of an inch in 
thickness. 

Apple Pie 

Tartc aux Pommes. 

4 Large Apples (tart). 

1 Cup Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful Sweet Spices, Blended 

Equally. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

1 Tablespoonful Butter. 

Pare and slice the apples nicely. 
Then put them in a porcelain-lined 
saucepan, and let them stew gently, 
adding the water and the butter. Sea- 
son well with a little ground cinna- 
mon, mace and allspice. When done, 
take off and allow to cool a little. 
Make a flaky pie crust (see recipe), 
and line the tin plates, after grreasing 
slightly with butter, and bake the 
bottom crust slightly brown. Take out 
and All in with the apples, and then 
cover the top with a thin layer of crust. 
Decorate the edges, and set in the 
oven to bake. When a nice, delicate 
brown, take out and let them cool. 
Remove from the tin plate by slight- 
ly loosening the outer edge with a 
knife. Turn over into a china plate, 
sprinkle with white powdered sugar, 
and serve cold or hot. A pie is al- 
ways better served cold when made 
of fruit. 

The above is the general rule to be 
observed in making pies. Sometimes 
the pies are left open, being covered 
with tiny strips of paste. This is a 
matter of taste. Utilize odd bits of 
paste and fruits in this way. 



Apple Tarts. 

Tartlettes aux PommcB. 

4 Ounces of Pie Paste. 3 Ounces of 
Apple Marmalade. 3 Apples. 
2 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 
1 Pint of Water. 

Prepare the Pie Paste (see recip«X 
and line six tart molds with it. Peel 
and core the apples and cut into quar- 
ters» and put into a saucepan y/rith a 
pint of cold ^ater. Let them cook on 
a hot stove for ten minutes. Then 
remove and drain, and let cool for 
half an hour. Then cut the quarters 
into three slices each; line the bottom 
of the molds with the marmalade, di- 
vided evenly; arrange the sliced ap- 
ples neatly over the marmalade, and 
dredge nicely with two ounces of pow- 
dered sugar. Set in a baking dish 
and bake for twenty minutes, or a 
half hour if necessary, in a moderate 
oven. Take out and spread nicely 
with apple marmalade and serve. 

A simpler way is as follows: Pare 
and quarter the apples. Sprinkle 
lightly with sugar. Make a pie crust; 
roll into small bits; place the apples 
in the open crust, fold over, fasten by 
pressing in an ornamental way with a 
fork, and bake in a quick oven until 
the apples are very tender. 



Aiq;>le Merin^e Pie 

Tartea de Pommes MerinffuSet. 

4 Large Apples. % Cup of Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Sweet Spices, Blended 

Squally. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

Whites of 3 Eggs. 
1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla or Lemon 

Essence. 

Peel, slice and stew ripe. Juicy ap- 
ples, and mash them through a sieve. 
Season with a little grated nutmeg, 
using the proportions in this recipe 
Just as given in Apple Pie. (See rec- 
ipe.) Fill the pie plates with the 
crust, bake and fill with the stewed 
apples. Let them bake for about 
twenty minutes, and then spread over 
the top a thick meringue, made by 
beating the whites of three eggs for 
each pie, with three tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar, if you desire a deep, 
rich meringue; otherwise, allow the 
white of one egg and one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar. Flavor with vanilla or 
lemon, and continue beating till it 
will stand alone. Cover the pies with 
this meringue three-quarters of an 



TTHE PICAYUNK CREOLE COOK BOOK 



245 



ixich or one-quarter of an inch thick, 
a.ccordin^ to quantity used; set in the 
stiove and let brown, and eat cold. 

Banana Pte 

Tctrte de Bananes. 

4 Largre Bananas. 

V^ Cup of Sugrar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Sweet Spices, Blended 

Kqually. 

1 Tableapoonful of Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

Peel, slice and stew the bananas 
a,nd mash through a sieve. Prepare a 
IMe Paste and proceed as in Apple 
T»ie. (See recipe.) 

Banana Meringue Pie 

Tarte de Bananes Meringuiea, 

4 Lar^e Bananas. 

^ Cup of Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Sweet Spices. 

Whites of 3 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Esseoce. 

1 Teaspoonful of Grated Nutmeg. 

Peel, slice and stew the bananas 
and mash through a sieve; then pro- 
ceed as in directions for Apple 
Meringue Pie. (See recipe.) 

Blackberry Pie 

Tarte de MUres. 
1 Quart of Blackberries. 1 Cup of Sugar. 
1 Teaspoonful of Sweet Spices. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

Stew the blackberries and proceed 
in exactly the same manner as for 
Apple Pie, using the same proportions 
for two piea (See recipe.) 

Cherry Pie 

Tarte dc Cerises. 

1 Quart of Cherries. 1 Cup of Sugar. 
1 Tablespoonful of Water. 

All fruit pies are beat when the 
fruit is previously cooked. Stew the 
cherries gently, as for a marmalade, 
then prepare the pie crust according 
to directions, and proceed as in recipe 
for making pies. 

Chocolate Cream Pie. 

Tarte d la Cr^me de Chocolat. 

2 Quarts of Milk. 

% of a Cake of Vanilla or French 

Chocolate. % Cup of White Sugar. 

6 Eggs. 2 Teaspoon fuls of Vanilla. 

First dissolve the chocolate in a 
little milk, and then stir into the 
boiling milk. Let it boil about four 
minutes. Then set to cool. When 
almost cool, add the yolks of all the 
eggs and the whites of three, saving 
the remainder for the meringue. Stir 



these eggs well into the chocolate, and 
add the essence of vanilla. Then put 
into pie pans, in which you will al- 
ready have baked the under crust. 
Set in the oven and let the custard 
grow to a "set" state. When half 
done, spread over the whites of the 
eggs, which have been whipped to a 
.si iff froth, with two tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar. Let the pies brown 
lightly, and serve cold. By baking 
the above preparation, without the 
paste, in cups set in boiling water, 
you will have a Chocolate Cup Cus- 
tard. 

Cocoanut Pic. 

Tarte de Coco. 

1 Pint of Milk. % Cup of Sugar. 

1 Cup of Grated Cocoanut. 2 Eggs. 

^ of a Grated Nutmeg. 

Beat the eggs very light. Add the 
sugar and beat with the eggs until 
very light. Add the grated nutmeg, 
and finally the cocoanut. Make a pie 
crust (see. recipe), using half the 
quantity, as a cocoanut pie is always 
an uncovered pie. Fill with the mix- 
ture, and bake in the oven for about 
half an hour. 

Creole Cocoanut Pie 

Tarte de Coco d la Creole. 

Vi Pound of Grated Cocoanut. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Melted Butter. 
y^, Pound of White Powdered Sugar. 

The Whites of 6 Eggs. 

1% Pints of Milit. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Vanilla. 

1 Tablespoonful of Nutmeg. 

Beat the sugar and butter to a light 
cream and then add the essence of 
vanilla. Gradually add the cocoanut, 
beating it as lightly as possible. Add 
the scalded milk, which has been al- 
lowed to cool, and finally beat in 
lightly the whites of the eggs, which 
have been whipped to a very stiff 
froth. Do this latter with a few swift 
strokes, so that the cocoanut may 
stand out fresh and flaky, like snow. 
Bake in pie cruets which have already 
been set in the oven. Serve cold, 
sprinkling over white powdered sugar. 

Cream Pie. 

Dariole, 

1 Pint of Milk. The Whites of Four 

Eggs. 
1 Tablespoonful Flour. ^ Cup Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla Essence or 

Lemon Juice. 

Blend the flour and bu,tter well to- 
gether, and when light add the milk 



246 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



gradually. CornstaVch may be sub- 
stituted for the flour. Add the essence 
of vanilla or the Juice of a lemon, 
and then add the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Stir them well 
into the bubbling mixture, and then 
fill the pie pans, which you have lined 
with crust, baked according to direc- 
tions. Place in the oven and bake 
until a nice brown. A cream pie 
.should be served very cold. 

Cranberry PIp. 

Tarte d'Airellet. 

1% Pints of Cranberries. 1 Cup of 
Sugar Plain Pie Crust. 

Cook the cranberries as for Cran- 
berry Sauce. (See recipe.) Do not 
strain the berries. Prepare the pie 
crust. Bake the lower crust, fill it 
with the fruit, and proceed as in gen- 
eral directions for making pies under 
the heading "Apple Pie." A cran- 
berry pie, properly made, is one of 
the most delicious of all desserts. 

Custarcl Pie 

Flan. 

1 Pint of Milk. 3 Eggs. % Cup of Sugar. 

Vanilla or Lemon Extract. 

A Pinch of Salt. 

Line the pie pans with the pie crust. 
(See recipe.) Beat the eggs lightly 
in a bowl. Add the sugar and the 
flavoring extract. Set the milk to boil 
in a farina boiler. When it boils, 
pour it gently upon the eggs, and stir 
till all is thoroughly blended. Then 
fill the pie pans with this mixture. 
Place in a moderate oven, and bake 
for twenty or twenty-five minutes. 

Currant Pie 

Tarte de Qrogeillea Rouges, 
% Pint of Currants. H Cup of Sugar. 
Plain Pie Paste. 

Clean and pick and wash the cur- 
rants well; drain nicely, and then put 
Into a saucepan with one-half cup of 
sugar. Stew nicely, and then proceed 
as in the directions given for making 
Apple Pie. (See recipe.) 

Frangipani 

Frangipane. 
3 Ounces of Shelled Almonds. 3 Table- 
spoonfuls of Powdered Sugar. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Melted Butter. 

2 Eggs. 

V6 Spoonful of Ground Cinnamon. 

1 Teaspoonful of Orange Flower Water. 

Prepare a pie paste, and peel three 
ounces of shelled almonds. Then put 



put them into a mortar and pound to 
a paste, with the powdered sugar &zid 
a raw egg. When reduced to a very 
fine paste, add the melted butter, 
ground cinnamon and the orange 
flower water. Beat the yolk of an egg 
well, and then beat the white to a stiff 
froth and mix thoroughly. Line tlie 
pie pans with the pie paste, and fill 
with the preparation of almonds. Set 
in a moderate oven for thirty-five or 
forty minutes; then set to cool for a 
half hour. In the meantime prepare 
a "Glace a TEau," as follows: Put one 
ounce of white granulated sugar into 
a sauce pan, with one tablespoonf ul of 
. cold water, and let it come to a boil. 
Take oflf the fire and glaze the surface 
of the cake with this. Let It cool and 
send to the table. 

Gooseberry Pie 

Tarte de Oroaeillcs Blanches. 

1 Quart of Gooseberries. 1% Cups of 

Sugar. A Plain Pie Paste. 

Top and tail the gooseberries. Line 
two deep pie dishes with a plain Pie 
Paste (see recipe); fill with berries; 
add nearly one cup of sugar to each 
pie, and proceed as in recipe for Ap- 
ple Pie. Set in the oven and let the 
pies bake for three-quarters of an 
hour. If the gooseberries are stewed 
as blackberries it will require less 
time to bake. 

Greengage Pie 

Tarte de Reine-Claude. 
8 Ripe Greengages. 3 Ounces of Apple 

Marmalade. 
% Pound of Feuilletage Paste. 

Prepare a half pound of Feuilletage 
Paste (see recipe) and line six tart 
molds with it. Then spread nicely 
on the bottom of each three ounces 
of Apple Marmalade. (See recipe.) 
Wash the greengages carefully and 
remove the stones; cut into quartered 
pieces and lay nicely over the marma- 
lade. Sprinkle two ounces of powdered 
sugar evenly over them and bake in a 
moderate oven for twenty-five min- 
utes. Remove; let cool; spread apple 
marmalade nicely over the top and 
send to the table. 

Huckleberry Pie 

Tarte de Miircs de Roncc. 

1 Quart of Huckleberries. H Cup of 

Sugar. A Plain Pie Crust. 

In making this delicious pie proceed 

in the same manner as in the recipe 

given for Cherry Pie. (See recipe.) 



TU£ PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



247 



Ijeinon Pie 

Tarte de Cfitron. 

1 % Cups of Sugrar. 1 Cup of Water. 

1 Tablespoonful of Corn Starch or 2 of 

Flour. 

2 Ens. 1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
The Juice and Inner Fruit and Rind of 

Two Grated Lemons. 

Beat the sugar and butter to a 
cream; add the eggs, the yolks and 
the whites beaten separately, and then 
add the hot water and the Juice, the 
pulp of the lemon and the ^ grated 
rind. Moisten the flour or cornstarch 
with a little cold water, and stir into 
the mixture. Line the pie pans with 
plain paste or pie crust. '(See recipe.) 
Bake .the under crust a few minutes. 
Then fill the pans with the mixture, 
cover with an upper crust, and bake 
in a quick oven for half an hour. 

Or cook the custard first, as many 
of the Creoles do, declaring that thus 
they reach better results. Boil the 
water, and then wet the flour or corn- 
starch, with a little cold water, blend- 
ing thoroughly. Stir this Into the 
water, and let all come to the boiling 
point. Then add the sugar, and, if 
you wish, the butter. Let it boil up 
once. Take off, and add immediately 
the beaten eggs, and set to cool.. Then 
add the lemon juice and grated lemon 
rind, stirring well. Bake the under 
crust of the pie, fill with this mixture, 
and set in the oven to brown nicely. 
This should be an open pie. Indeed, 
all lemon pies should be open, as cus- 
tard pies always are. The above 
measurements will make two pies. 

Lemon Merlnirue Pie 

Tarte de Citron MMnguie, 

1% Cups of Milk or Water. 

m Cups of White Sugar. 3 Eggs. 

I Tablespoonful of Flour or CornstaTch. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Powdered White 

Sugar. 
The Juice and Grated Rind of 2 Lemons. 

Have ready the pie pans, with the 
baked crust. Beat the sugar and the 
yolks well together, and add the Juice 
and grated rind of the lemons. Blend 
the flour and milk gradually, and pour 
it through a sieve into the eggs. Mix 
thoroughly. Fill the lined pans with 
this, and set in the oven to bake for 
twenty or thirty minutes. Add gradu- 
ally three tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar to the whites of the eggs, beat- 
ing steadily all the time* and when 
it is all absorbed beat it to a stiff 
froth. Place this over the top of the 
pie by spoonfuls, and then smooth 



lightly with a knife, place it in the 
oven, and let it brown. This is a de- 
licious pie. 

Mince Pie 

Pdt6 de Noel 

3 Pounds of Beef, Chopped Very Fine. 

1 Pound of Beef or Mutton Suet. 

i Pounds of Apples, Pared and Chopped. 
2 Pounds of Raisins, Seeded and 

Chopped. 
1 Pound of Sultana Raisins, Picked and 

Washed. 

2 Pounds of Currants, Picked and 

Washed. 

1 Pound of Citron, Cut Very Fine. 
IH Pound of Lemon Peel, Grated Very 

Fine. 
2 Pounds of Brown Sugar. 
Pound of Candied Lemon Peel, if De- 
sired. 2 Grated Nutmegs. 

1 Tablespoonful Each of Ground Cloves 

and Allspice. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Ground Mace. 

1 Tablespoonful of Fine Salt. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Ground Cinnamon. 

2 Quarts of Cider. 

The Juice of 2 Lemons. 

The Juice of 2 Oranges, and the Rind, 

Grated Fine. 

The meat should be good and lean, 
and should be boiled the day before 
needed, or early in the morning, and 
allowed to cool. In boiling the meat, 
plunge it into boiling (not cold) 
water, for the boiling water enables 
it to retain its Juices. Cook steadily 
till tender. Then stand away to cool. 
Chop the meat very fine, and clear 
away all gristle and skin. Shred the 
suet, and chop, or, rather, mince . it 
very, very fine. Then pare and core 
the apples, and chop very flne. Stone 
the raisins, and cut the citron flne. 
Many prefer to leave out the candied 
lemon as the mince meat is heavier 
with it, the flavor being more delicate 
and the pie more digestible without it. 
Grate the orange and lemon peel very 
flne. Then mix the meat and suet 
together, chopping again, and add all 
the Juices of the lemon and orange, 
and the grated rinds, and then mix all 
well again, and pack in a stone Jar. 
Pour over this the cider and cover 
very tightly, and set in a very cool 
place. Mince meat made in this man- 
ner should keep all winter. When 
ready to use the meat, dish out the 
quantity you desire, and thin to the 
needed consistency. Be very careful 
in picking the currants, especially tak- 
ing out all grains of sand or dirt and 
pieces of twigs, etc. Wash them sev- 
eral times in cold water, separating 
the good from the bad, ever rejecting 
the great quantity of refuse thnt al- 
ways lurks in bought currants. 



24S 



THE PICAYl'irE CRKOLE CX)OK BOOK 



The Creoles often use the fresh 
b«*ef tongrue or the heart of the beef, 
well chopped and boiled, in making 
this mince meat. The filet of beef is 
best, however. 

To make the pies, line the bottom 
of the pie pans with the pie crust, 
bake the bottom layer, and then fill 
with the mince meat. Cover the pies 
with a thin crust, or leave open if pre- 
ferred; bake till a nice, delicate 
brown, sprinkle lightly witii white 
sui?ar, and serve hot. Mince pies 
kept from day to day should be 
warmed over before serving. 

Plain Minoe Pie 

PdU de Noel Simple. 

A plain mince meat for every day 

use may be made as follows: 

2 Pounds of Meat. 2% Pounds of Apple. 

2 Pound? of Seeded Raisins. 2 Pounds 

of Currants. 1 % Pints of Cider. 

1 Teaspoonful Each of Clnnanion. 

Cloves, Nutmeg and Mace, Lrraiea. 

2 Pounds of Brown Sugar. 

Juice and Rind of 1 Lemon. 

The Juice and Rind of 1 OranS®; 

^ Pound of Mutton or Beef Suet. 

% Pound of Chopped Citron. 

Proceed to prepare the meat and 
the pies as In above recipe. 

liCnten Mince Pie 

PAtS <tc yoel au Car^mc. 
4 Pounds of the Best Apples. Cored and 

Minced. 
2 Pounds of Raisins, Stoned and Minced. 

8 Hard-Boiled Kggs, Chopped Fine. 
1 Teaspoonful Each of Ground Spices, as 

Above ^ ^ , 

Juice and Rind of 2 Lemons, Grated. 

The Juice of an Orange, and Kind, 

Grated. 2 Pounds of Currants. 

2 Pounds of Sugrar, or Sugar to Taste. 

1 Quart Cider. 

Mix all well together, lncrea.sing or 
lessening the proportions, according to 
the number of pies you wish to make, 
and proceed as above. (See recipe 
Mince Pie.) 

Molasses Pio 

Tarle de MflagMc. 
2 Cups of New Orleans Molasses. 

% Cup of Sugar. 

The Juice of 2 Lemons. 3 Eggs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

% Teaspoonful Each of Nutmeg and 

Cinnamon. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Blend the lemon julco and molasses 
well, and gradually beat in the flour, 
which has been well moistened with a 
little water. Then add the spices and 
the butter, melted, and the yolks of 
the eggs, beaten very light with the 



sugar. Finally, add the whites, beat- 
en to a stilt froth. Mix well. Line 
the pie pans with a pie crust Csee 
recipe), bake, fill with the mixture, 
and bake again for half an hour. One- 
quarter of a cup of vinegar mAy be 
substituted for the lemon Juice, but 
always use the latter if you have It. 

Oraaice Pie 

Tarte &Orange9. 

2 Fine Ltoulsiana Oranges and T*lielr 

Juic€> 

The Hind of 1 Orange, Grated. 

2 Tablespoons of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Cornstarch. 3 Sssa. 

1 Cup of Powdered Sugar. 

% Teacupful of Boiling Water. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream. Then blend the cornstarch 
with sufficient cold water to moisten 
it, mix well, and stir into the teacup 
of water, which should be boiling in 
a saucepan. Let it cook, stirring 
constantly, for two minutes only. 
Then add the butter and sugar and 
stir well. Remove from the fire, and 
add the well-beaten yolks of tw^o 
eggs. Line the pie plates with pie 
crust (see recipe), and bake the un- 
der crust. Add the custard, and let it 
get slightly brown In the oven. Then 
take out, and spread, over the top the 
whites of two eggs, beaten stiff, 
with two tablespoonfuls of fine 'white 
powdered sugar. I^et It bake for about 
three minutes longer In a quick oven. 
and serve cold. The meringue on top 
must be slightly browned. 

Peach Pie 

Tarte de Picket. 

1 Dozen LArge Peaches. 1 Cup of Sugar. 
A Plain Paste. 

Pare and cut the peaches into 

slices. Stew them well, and proceed 

In exactly the same manner as for 

Apple Pie. (See recipe.) Sprinkle 

the tops of the covers with fine white 

powdered sugar when ready to serve. 

Peach MerinfiTue Pie 

Tarte de P€che» Meringuie. 

1 Dozen Peaches. Sugar to Taste. 

Whites of 6 Eggs. 6 Tablespoonfuls of 

Powdered Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

Pare and stone the peaches, and 
stew according to recipe. (See recipe 
Stewed Apples or Peaches.) Line the 
bottoms of two pie pans with a rich 
pie crust, and then fill in with the 
peaches, which have been well sweet- 
ened to taste. Bake in a quick oven 
twenty or twenty-flve minutes. Beat 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



249 



the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth 
with the sugar, which should be fine 
white powdered. Add a teaspoonful 
of vanilla. When the meringue can 
stand alone, cover the tops of the 
baked pies three-quarters of an inch 
thick, and set them back in the oven 
to bake for two or three minutes, to a 
nice, delicate brown. 

All fruit meringue pies are made in 
the same way. 

Pear Pie 

Tarte de Poires. 

6 Fine Pears. 
Vk Cup of Sugar. 2 Tablespoonfuls of 
Wlater. A Plain Paste. 

Peel and core and slice six fine 

pears. Put them in a vessel with the 

sugar apd water, and stew. Prepare 

a plain paste, and proceed in exactly 

the same manner as for Apple Pie. 

(See recipe.) 

* 

Pineapple Pic 

t Tarte d' Ananas. 

1 Pine Pineapple. % Cup of Sugar. 
A Plain Pie Paste. 

Peel and slice one pineapple into 
very fine, thin pieces. Place with the 
Juice in a saucepan with the sugar, 
and stew slightly. Prepare a plain pie 
paste, and proceed in the same man- 
ner as for Apple Pie. (See recipe.) 

Plantain Pie 

Pats de Plantain, 

2 Plantains. % Cup of Sugar. 

A Plain Paste. 

Peel, slice and stew the plantains, 
and proceed In the same manner as 
for Apple Pie. (See recipe.) 

Plantain Morlnprue Pie. 

PdtS de Plantain Meringui. 

2 Plantains. % Cup of Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Sweet Spices. 

White of 3 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Essence. 

Peel, slice and stew the plantains, 

mash through a sieve, and proceed as 

in recipe for Apple Meringue Pie. (See 

recipe. ) 

Pumpkin Pie 

Tarte de Oitrouille. 
Use the delicate Cashaw for this pie. 
Take 

1 Pint of Mashed, Stewed Pumpkin. 

1 Pint of Milk. 3 Tablespoonfuls of 

Butter. 4 Eggs. 1 Cup of Sugar. . 

% Teaspoonful Each of Ground Mace. 

Cinnamon and Allspice. 

Boll a quart of pumpkin, cut into 
dice-shaped pieces, putting It on with 



just enough water to keep from burn- 
ing, say about a quarter of a cupful. 
Let It stew slowly for an hour, at 
least, or until tender. Then drain and 
press through a colander. Add a 
good tablespoonful of butter and a 
quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. Mix 
well and let it cool. When cool put 
the pumpkin, using one pint of It. into 
a bowl, and add the pint of milk, 
the ground spices, and mix all well 
together, and add the above amount 
of sugar, or sugar tp taste. Then beat 
f-*ur eggs well and add to the mixture. 
Line the pie pans, and bake the under 
crust. Fin with the mixture, and 
bake In a quick oven for half an hour. 
When cold sprinkle, lightly with white 
powdered sugar, and serve. This 
quantity will make three pies. 



Raspberry Pie 

Tarte de Framboises. 

1 Quart of Berries. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful Sweet Spices, Blended 

Equally. 

% Cup of Water. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Pick, wash and stem the berries; 
then put them in a porcelain-lined 
saucepan, and let them stew gently, 
adding the water and the butter. Sea- 
son well with a little ground cinna- 
mon, mace and allspice. When done, 
take off and allow to cool a little. 
Make a flaky pie crust (see recipe), 
and line the tin plates, after greasing 
slightly with butter, and bake the 
bottom crust slightly brown. Take 
out and fill In with the berries, and 
then cover the top with a thin layer 
of crust. Decorate the edges, and set 
in the oven to bake. When a nice, 
delicate brown, take out and let them 
cool. Remove from the tin plate by 
slightly loosening the outer edge with 
a knife. Turn over into a china 
plate, sprinkle with white sugar, and 
serve cold or hot. 



Strawberry Pic 

Tarte de Praises. 

1 Quart of Berries. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 
% Cup of Water. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Teaspoonful Sweet Spices, Blended 

Equally. 

Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for Raspberry Pie. (See re- 
cipe. ) 



250 



THE PICATUmB CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



It might be remarked that all the 
above fruit pies may be made into 
meringue pies, the same as the Peach 
Meringue and Apple Meringue pies. 

All fruit pies are delightful eaten 
with a gl^ss of fresh milk or cream. 



Sweet Potato Ciistard Pie 

FJan dc Palates Douce; 

8 Boiled Sweet Potatoes. 

3 Eggrs. 1 Cup of Milk. 1 Cup of Sugar. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

y^ Teaspoonful of Cinnamon. 

The Grated Rind and Juice of an Orange. 

Wash the potatoes well, and boil 
them until tender, but not overdone. 
Thirty minutes will suffice.. When 
cold, peel and grate them, and then 
beat together the butter and sugar 
tin light. Add the yolks of the eggs, 
beaten till light, and then beat In the 
potatoes, stirring first gradually, and 
then beating lightly and steadily. Ad4 
the spices and the orange, and then 
line one deep pan or two small pie 
pans if preferred, with the pie crust. 
(See recipe.) Bake lightly, fill In 
neatly with the potatoes, and cook in 
a quick oven for a half hour. Beat 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth, and while beating add two 
tablespoonfuls of white powdered 
sugar. When the pies are baked, 
heap the meringue on top, set back 
in the oven, and let them bake for 
two or three minutes only, to a light 
brown. 

Vol-au-Vent 

1 Pound of Flour. 
1 Pound of Butter, or Half Butter and 

Half Lard. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 1 Cup of Ice 

Water. 
1 Egg. 

Vol-au-Vent Paste Is always diffi- 
cult to make, and should never be 
attempted by inexperienced house- 



keepers, if they are expecting com- 
pany. 

Make the PuCC Paste as directed 
(see Puff Paste), and let it stand in 
a cool place at least six hours. Ftoll 
the paste out very thin, and then lioe 
the deep pan in which you intend 
to cook the chicken or meat. Out 
around the edge nicely with a knife. 
Then take another small pan and 
cover it only half way with the paste. 
Cut around the edges, trimming off 
all strings of dough. Then brush tlie 
paste all around the top with a beaten 
e^E- Put it on a sheet iron or square 
tin, and set It on the Ice till very cold. 
Then set It in a very hot oven to bake 
for about half an hour. Do not let 
It burn or scorch. When done, fill tlie 
Inside with chicken, pigeon or other 
meat (already fricaseed), with which 
you intend to make the Vol-au-Vent, , 
and then cover with the top crust. 
Fill around the edges with strips of 
left over paste, piling one over tlie 
other In about three thicknesses, set 
In the oven to bake, and serve hot. 

This Is the true Vol-au-Vent paste, 
and chicken, pigeons, small birds, veal 
or meats may be used for filling. But 
the best chicken pie is the old-fasb- 
loned one, made by filling the pan 
with pie crust (see recipe), baking It, 
with the edges all artistically cut 
around lightly, and then filling in with 
the chicken alternating with strips of 
dough and covering with a thin layer 
of the paste. Then bake nice and 
brown and serve hot. 

Oyster Patties 

Bouchies d'Hikitrea. 
Prepare a puff paste, and proceed 
in exactly the nianner outlined under 
the chapter on "Oysters." (See Oy^er 
Patties. ) 



«IH£ PICAYUNE CREOLS COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER XXXIV 



251 






D€9 Poudinff9, 



We have no real French word for 
puddiners. Puddings are essentially 
English in origin. French chefs in- 
troduced them into France, retaining, 
with a slight modification of spelling, 
the expressive name for the dish. The 
Creoles have adapted the dish to the 
many delightful fruits of Louisiana. 

Puddings may be either boiled of 
baked. One rule may be given for 
the baked pudding, and one for the 
boiled, or more properly, the "roll," 
and these will be the guides of the 
intelligent cook. In the boiled pud- 
dings it is generally necessary to make 
a dough, using the Plain Paste (see 
recipe), and then the dough is rolled 
out, and the raw fruit placed inside. 
The dough is then rolled over and 
over so as to form layers first of 
dough, and then of fruit. Then it is 
sewed up in a clean cloth, and boiled 
till done. 

Blackberry Roll 

Bourreh't aux Mdret. 

1 Quart of Blackberries. 
A Plain Paste, Not Too Flaky, 

Make a Plain Paste, which should 
be rather firm, to prevent the berries 
from escaping. Roll this out to about 
one and a half feet in length, or one 
foot, according t> the size of the fam- 
ily, and the number of guests, one 
foot being ample for a family of six. 
Spread over It the blackberries, which 
have been very carefully picked, and 
then carefully roll over and over 
again until the entire pa.ste is taken 
up. Then sew in a clean piece of 
white muslin, and put into a kettle 
of boiling water. Let it boil contin- 
uously for at least two hours and a 
half. Then take out, let it cool slight- 
ly, rip the cloth which binds it, and 
serve immediately with a Hard Sauce 
or rream Sauce. (See recipes Sauces 
for Puddings, etc.) 



Peach Rolls, Apple Rolls, Banana, 
Strawberry, Raspberry, Cherry and 
Currant Rolls and Plantain Rolls are 
made in the same manner. Always 
slice and peel the peaches and stone 
them; also stone the cherries, and 
peel and seed the apples. Peel the 
plantains and bananas and slice very 
thin before rolling In the dough. Some 
serve the roll cold, but then it is al- 
ways a little tough, for the boiled 
dough hardens easily. If liked, the 
pudding may be boiled in a mold, in 
which case it should be well-covered 
and the mold first buttered. The 
fruits may be mixed, too, which often 
produces excellent results. 



Boiled Ihimplings 

ichaudi» d VAnglaUe, 
8 Large, Fine, Rosy Apples. Sauce. 

Prepare a Plain Paste (see recipe), 
and cut into squares, and put in the 
center of each a fine, Juicy apple, 
pared and cored, or a half apple, 
pared and cored. Wrap the fruit up 
in the dough, and place these in small 
dumpling cloths (the Creoles some- 
times do without cloths), and put 
them into boiling water, and let them 
boil for at least an hour. On taking 
out the apple, if so desired, the inner 
core may be filled with some delicate 
Jelly or marmalade. Serve with Hard, 
or Cream Sauce. (See recipes Sauces 
for Puddings, etc.) 

Dumplings of other fruits are made 
in the same way. In making a peach 
dumpling, cut the peach in half, 
stone it, put together again, or place- 
the halves each in separate pieces of 
dough in dumpling cloths. Cut ba- 
nanas and plantains into quarters. 

Always dip the pudding and dump- 
ling cloths in very hot water before 
sewing up the pudding or dumplings 
in them. Dumplings must be served 
as poon as done. 



262 



THE PK'AYINK CREX>L.K COOK B€>OK 



Old-Fashloned Creole Apple Dmnp- 

lings 

ichaudi$ d« Pommea d VAndenne Mode 

Creole. 

8 tATge, Fine, Ro'ey Apple?. 

1 Largre Kltchenspoonful oi Butter. 

2 Large Kitchenspoonfuls of Su^ar. 
1 Cup of Seeded Raisins. The Grated 

Kind of 1 Orange. 

An old-fashioned apple dumpling is 
made by dropping the dumplings in 
the boiling water without wrapping 
them in cloths. After they have boiled 
an hour, beat one large kltchenspoon- 
ful of butter and two of sugar to a 
thick cream, and stir into the water 
with the dumplings. Add one cup of 
seeded raisins, and the grated rind of 
one orange. Let all boil twenty min- 
utes longer. Put the dumplings into 
a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve 
hot or cold. 



Baked Dumplings 

£chaud69 Rdtia. 

8 Large, Fine. Rosy Apples. 
Sauce. 

Prepare a Plain Paste. ( See recipe. ) 
Cut into squares and proceed to pre- 
pare the dumplings In exactly the 
same manner as in the recipe for 
Boiled Dumplings (see above recipe), 
only, instead of boiling them, set them 
in the oven in a baking dish, and 
bake to a delicate brown. Serve with 
a Hard or Cream Sauce. (See re- 
cipes Sauces for Puddings.) Dump- 
lings of other fruits are made and 
baked in the same way. 



Rice DtimpUiigs 

Hchaud^B de Riz. 

' % Pound of Mashed. Cold, Boiled 

Rice. 

H Dozen Apples. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Berer. 

Pare the apples and take out the 
cores. Fill the interiors with sugar 
and cinnamon. Beat the egg and the 
rice together, add the flour, and knead 
to a dough. Cover the apples with a 
thick coating of rice, and then tie 
each in a dumpling cloth, and put 
them in a pot of boiling water. Let 
them boil for three-quarters of an 
hour. When done, turn out carefully 
on a dish, and serve with a Hard or 
Cream Sauce. Or the dumplings may 
be baked in the oven. 



Roly Poly 

Bourrelet. 

yk Pound of Flour. 6 Ounce« of Suet. 
1 Pint of Fresh Fruit. Jam or Jelly. 
% Teaspoonful of Salt. 

('^ut away all the fibers from the 
suet, and then mince very fine. Add 
the flour and salt to it, mixing iw'ell 
together, a.nd gradually add sufficient 
water to make a dough. Roll it out 
about half an inch thick on a large 
baking board, and spread it ovei 
thinly with minced fresh fruits, min- 
gled, or with fruit Jam or preserves, 
singly or mingled. Roll it up, and 
put in a cloth, leaving room for it 
to swell. Then plunge into boiling 
water and let it boil for two hours. 
Serve with Hard or Cream Sauce. 

An Orange Roly Poly is made by 
seeding the oranges and la>ing them 
thinly sliced all over the sheet of 
dough. Sprinkle lightly w^ith white 
sugar, and roll up and fasten closely 
in the pudding cloth. Boil for one 
hour, and eat with Lemon or Orange 
Sauce. 

Peaches and apples and other fruits 
may be used, also, in making thefie 
delightful roly polys. 

Plum Pudding 

Pouding aux Raitins. 

1 Pound of Raisins. 1 Pound of 

Currants. 

% Pound of Citron. 

% Pound of Butter. % Pound of Suet. 

^ Pound of Sugar. % Pound of Flour. 

6 Eggs. Half Pint of Milk. 

1 Orated Nutmeg. 

^ Ounce Each of Ground Cloves* 

Mace, Cinnamon and Allspice. 

The Grated Rind of a Lemon. 

The Grated Rind of Half an Orange. 

Seed the raisins, chop them fine; 
seed the currants after washing and 
picking them over carefully and mince 
the citron and grrated rind of the 
orange and lemon. Now proceed to 
beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream and then beat in the yolks 
of the eggs, which have been previ- 
ously beaten to a perfect degree of 
lightness. Then add the flour, beat- 
ing in by degrees till very light, and 
the whites of the eggs, which have 
been beaten to a stiff froth. Add the 
spices and beat in well. Mince the 
suet and the fruits very flne and add. 
A\1ien all is well mixed, have ready 
the pudding cloth, wet with hot water, 
and wrung perfectly dry. Dredge it 
slightly with flour, and wrap the pud- 



THE PICAYUNE CREOUB COOK BOOK 



253 



dingr in it. Sew it up, put it into a 
kettle of boiling water, and let it boll 
for six hours. Serve with a Hard 
Sauce. <" 



Old-Fashtoned Creole Plum Puddlnip 

Pouding autt BaUins d VAneienne Mode 

OrioU. 

2 Pounds of Beef Suet. 1% Pounds of 

Flour. 

1 Pound of Sugar. The Yolks of 8 Eggs. 

1 Pound of Raisins. 1 Pound of 

Currants. 

% Pound of Citron. 

One Pint Cider. 

1 Nutmeg. 

A Pinch of Cinnamon. 

Chop finely two pounds of beef suet. 
Mix with it one and a half pounds of 
sifted flour; add to this one pound 
of sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, one 
pound of raisins, stoned and floured; 
one pound of currants, one-quarter 
pound citron, chopped fine; one pint 
cider, one nutmeg, grated, and a little 
cinnamon. Beat the whole well to- 
gether, adding milk till of proper con- 
sistency. Wrap in a cloth, previously 
scalded and floured, leaving room for 
the pudding to swell; boil .six hours, 
and serve with Hard Sauce. 



Baked Puddings and Dumplings 

Des Poudings et des £chaud(8 au Four 
In baked puddings this invariable 
rule must be observed — the whites 
and the yolks of the eggs must be 
beaten separately, if you would 
achieve the best results. Custards 
come under the same class as pud- 
dings, in a way. and when baked both 
should be put into the oven the mo- 
ment they are made, and baked in- 
stantly. Once done, they should be 
taken out, and if to be eaten hot, 
should be served at once; if cold, they 
should be set in a cool place. Nothing 
is so delicate as milk, and when this 
ingredient enters Into the composition 
of any dish that is to be eaten cold, 
care should be taken to keep it in a 
very cool, fresh place. 

Apple Pudding 

Pouding de Pommes. 

1 Pint of Apples. 

8 Tablespoon fuls of White Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Butter. 

% Teaspoonful Each of Nutmeg. Mace, 

Allspice and Cinnamon, Grated. 

1 Spoonful of Vanilla Essence. 

Stew the apples according to recipe 
(see recipe), and while they are boil- 



ing hard stir in the butter and the 
spices. Then take from the Are, and 
add the well-beaten yolks of the eggs. 
Beat all v^ry light. Whip the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth, and beat 
well into the pudding. Put into a 
buttered dish, and bake for fifteen 
minutes in the oven. When nicely 
browned, grate nutmeg on top, and 
serve cold, with cream or milk. 



Apple Meringue Pudding 

Pouding M4ringu6 aus Pommes. 

1 Pint of Apples. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of White Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

% Teaspoonful Each of Nutmeg, Mace, 

Allspice and Cinnamon. Grated. 

1 Spoonful of Vanilla Essence. 

Stew the apples according to recipe 
(see recipe), and while they are boil- 
ing liard stir In the butter and the 
spices. Then take from the fire and 
add the well beaten yolks of the eggs. 
Beat all very light, and put it into a 
buttered dish, and bake for fifteen 
minutes slowly. Then cover with 
a meringue made with the whites of 
the eggs, the essence, and the white 
powdered sugar, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Bake to a light brown, and 
serve cold with fresh milk or cream. 

Peach Meringue Pudding, Cherry 
Meringue Pudding, Orange Meringue 
Pudding, Blackberry Meringue Pud- 
ding and Fig Meringue Pudding are 
also . made in the same way, only the 
figs must not be overripe when cooked. 

The same fruits may be made Into 
the plain pudding by following the 
first recipe. All are most excellent, 
and in their season are so cheap in the 
South that there is no reason why the 
poorest may not enjoy these delightful 
desserts. 

Banana Pudding 

Pouding dc Bananee, 

6 Bananas. Stale Cake. 

1 Pint of Milk. 3 Eggs. H Cup of Sugar. 

Cut the stale cake very thin. Peel 
and slice the bananas. Put a layer of 
cake at the bottom of a buttered 
baking dish. Place over this a layer 
of the sliced bananas. Pour over 
this a layer of milk custard, made 
from the above ingredients, and boiled 
very thin. (See Custard.) Add an- 
other layer of cake, then one of ba- 
nana and custard, and so continue till 
you have used up all. Be sure to make 
the custard the top layer. Cover 



254 



THE PIGAYUXE CREOIjC COOK BOOK 



with a piece of paper, bake for half 
an hour, then let the top brown 
slightly, and serve cold. 



in a moderate oven, and bake to & 
nice brown. Serve hot, with Cream 
Sauce or Hard Sauce. 



Birds' Nest Puddlncr 

Ponding au Nid d'OUeau, 

6 Apples. 1 Pint of Rich Cream. 

2 Cups of Flour. 

1 Teaspoonful of Sod^ 

Pare and core the apples, and then 
put them in the bottom of a buttered 
dish. Mix the cream with the flour 
until smooth, and add a teaspoonful 
of baking powder, which has been 
dissolved well in a tablespoonful of 
boiling water. Mix all again thor- 
oughly, and pour over the apples. 
Set in a moderate oven, and bake for 
one hour. Serve with Hard or Cream 
Sauce. (See recipe.) 



Bread Pudding 

Ponding de Pain, 
Utilize left-over stale bread in this 
pudding. 

1 Quart of Stale Bread. 
3 Eggs. 1 Cup Raisins. 1% Pints of 

Milk. 
1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

Beat the eggs well, and mix, and 
then, when very light, add the milk. 
If you use stale cake, add two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar; If you use stale 
bread, add half a cup of sugar. Mix 
thoroughly. Wet the bread and 
squeeze it. Then mix In it a cup of 
seeded raisins. Beat the egg mixture 
thoroughly into this, place it in the 
oven and bake for an hour. Serve 
with Hard, Cream or Lemon Sauce. 
(See recipes.) 



Brown Betty Pudding 

Ponding d la Mnldtresae. 

1 Cup of Bread Crumbs. 
2 Cups of Chopped Apples. 1 Cup of 

Sugar. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

% Spoonful each of Ground Spices. 

Utilize stale bread crumbs for this 
pudding. Butter the bottom of a bak- 
ing pan, and put in a layer of the 
apples, which have been stewed well. 
Put over this a layer of bread 
crumbs, sprinkle with sugar and dot 
with butter. Sprinkle nicely with 
the spices. Continue this until you 
have used up all the apples. Put a 
layer of bread crumbs on top. Place 



Cake or Bread Pnddlnfi: 

Ponding de OAteau de Pain 

1 Quart of Stale Cake. 
3 Bggs. 1 Cup Raisins. 1^ Pints 
Milk. 1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

Utilize left-over cake in this pud- 
ding. Beat Che eggs well, and mix 
and then, when very light, add the 
milk. If you use stale cake, add two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar; if you use 
stale bread, add half a cup of sugar. 
Mix thoroughly. Spread the bottom 
of a buttered pan with the raisins, put 
over them a layer of cake sliced thin, 
sprinkle this with raisins, and con- 
tinue adding the cake and raisins al- 
ternately till all are used. Add a little 
essence of lemon or vanilla to the egg 
mixture, and pour all this over the 
cetke. Set in the oven and bake for 
an hour. Serve with Hard or Lremon 
Sauce. 

Chocolate Pudding 

Ponding au Chocolat. 

3 Ounces of Grated Chocolate. 

3 Eggs. 

1 Quart of Milk. % Cup of Powdered 

Sugar. 

% Cups of Powdered Crackers. 

% Cups of Butter. 1 Pinch of Salt 

Soak the cracker crumbs in water 
for a few minutes, to dissolve them, 
and then squeeze out thoroughly. 
Dissolve the chocolate in a little milk, 
and add the other ingredients. Pour 
all into a buttered dish, and let bake 
for twenty minutes. Then take out 
and let it cool slightly. Spread over 
the top a meringue made of one cup 
of powdered sugar and the whites of 
three eggs. Set back in the oven to 
brown slightly for two minutes, and 
serve cold. 

Cottage Pudding 

Ponding de MSnage. 

1 Cup of Milk. 1 Cup of Sugar. 8 Eggs. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1% Cups of 

Flour. 
1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 

Beat the sugar and the yolks of the 
eggs, and then add the milk and the 
flour. Add the whites, beaten to a 
stilT froth. Beat carefully into the 
pudding\ Add the baking powder, and 
pour into a buttered pan, and cook In 
a moderate oven for three-quarters 
of an hour. Serve this pudding hot, 
with Vanilla, Cream or Lemon Sauce. 



THC PICAYUNE CREOIjE COOK BOOK 



255 



Coooanut Pudding 

Ponding de Coco, 

1 Grated Cocoanut. 1 Quart of Milk. 
1 Cup of Sugrar. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Vanilla. 
4 Tablespoonf uls of Cornstarch. 

Put the milk in a boiler and add 
the cornstarch as it commences to 
boil» first moistening the cornstarch 
with a little water. Stir until very 
smooth. Then add the yolks of the 
eggs, well beaten, and then the sugar. 
Lastly, add the whites, beaten to a 
stiff froth. Then add the grated cocoa- 
nut, turn into the baking pan, and 
bake for half an hour. Serve cold, 
with Vanilla Sauce. (See recipe.) 

Cream Pudding 

Pouding d la Crdme. 

6 Eggs. H Cup of Sugar. 
1 Pint Flour. 1 Pint Milk. 1 Grated 

Lemon. 
1 Pint of Rich Cream. A Pinch of Salt 

Mix the sugar and the grated lemon. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs well, and 
add to the mixture. Then add the 
flour, well sifted; beat light, and add 
one pint of milk and one pint of 
rich cream. Beat the whites to a 
stiff froth and add. Bake a half hour 
in a buttered dish. Serve with Lemon 
Sauce. (See recipe.) 



Creole Fig Pudding 

Pouding de Figues d la Creole. 

% Pound ^f Figs. 
^ Pound of Grated Bread Crumbs. 
1 Teacupful of Milk. 2^ Ounces of 

Sugar. 
3 Ounces of Butter. 2 Eggs. 

Chop the figs fine, and beat the 

sugar and the yolks of the eggs to a 

thick cream. Add the melted butter 

and the bread crumb.«i, which have 

been wet and squeezed thoroughly. 

Add the milk and whites of the eggs, 

beaten to a thick froth. Butter a mold 

and sprinkle with fiour, put in the 

pudding and steam lightly for three 

hours. Serve with Hard or Cream 

Sauce. 

Fig Pudding 

Pouding de Figue$. 

1 Pint of Fresh Figs. 1 Cup of Sugar. 

1 Cup of Milk. 1 Cup of Flour. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 

^ Teaspoonful of Grated Nutmeg. 

% Cup of Butter. 

Peel the figs and cut fine. Then 
make a batter of the eggrs. flour and 
milk, according to recipe (Apple Bat- 
ter Pudding). When smooth, add the 



fruit. Turn into a baking pan, and 
bake for an hour. Serve with sauce. 
This pudding may be boiled by add- 
ing two cups of fiour to the batter, 
and rolling and sewing in a well 
fioured dumpling cloth and boiling for 
three hours. (See recipe.) 

Indian Pudding 

Pouding d VIndienne 

2 Cups of Indian Meal. 

H Cup Butter. 1 Cup Sugar. 2 Cups 

Milk. M Cup of Molasses. 

1 Cup of Seeded Raisins. 

Pour sufiicient boiling water on the 
meal to wet It thoroughly, and then 
beat In the butter. Add the sugar, 
beating thoroughly, and the salt. 
Then add the milk, stirring well, also 
the molasses with the raisins. Add 
one teaspoonful of extract of cinna- 
mon, and one-quarter of a grated 
nutmeg. Mix thoroughly. Bake for 
two and a half or three hours, and 
serve cold with cream. 



Molasses Pudding 

Pouding de M€la»Be. 

1 Cup of New Orleans Molasses. 
1^ Cups of Milk. Vi Cup of Melted 

Butter. 

3 Cups Flour. V^ Teaspoonful Baking 

Powder. % Teaspoonful Cach of the 

Four Spices. 

Dissolve the baking powder In the 
fiour, mixing thoroughly. Melt the 
butter and add It to the molasses, and 
then add the milk, mixing thoroughly. 
Add the fiour, gradually mixing well, 
and then add the spices. Blend all 
well together. Pour into a well but- 
tered pan, and let It bake for about 
two hours. Serve with Foamy Sauce. 

This pudding may also be boiled 
by sewing In a well floured dumpling 
cloth and boiling for three hours. 



Nesselrode Pudding 

Pouding Nesselrode. 

^ Pint of Chestnuts. 

^ Pint of Almonds. 1 Pint of Cream. 

1 Pint of Boiling Water.* 
% Pound of Mixed French Candles of 

the Finest Kind. 
V^ of a Grated Pineapple, or ^ of a 

Can. 

The Yolks of Three Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonf ul of Vanilla Essence. 

Shell the chestnuts and throw them 
into boiling water to blanch. Then 
take off the brown skin, and set them 
In a saucepan and cover with boiling 
water, and let them boll for twenty 
minutes. Then drain and press them 



266 



THE PICAYUITE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



through a colander. Shell the al- 
monds and blanch them for twelve 
minutes in boiling water. Then take 
them out and pound them, and cut 
the fruit into very small pieces. Put 
the sugar and the water on to cook 
together, and let the mixture boil for 
ten minutes, then beat the yolks of 
the eggs very, very light, and add 
them to the boiling syrup. Let it 
boil up once, and take off, and then 
beat very lightly with an egg beater 
till cool. (Use a wire beater.) Add 
all the fruits, the almonds and chest- 
nuts, and the pint of cream, and a 
tablespoonful of Vanilla Essence. Beat 
well. Put the pudding into a freezer 
to freeze and ripen, and let it stand 
covered with a carpet, for four or 
Ave hours, or till frozen, renewing the 
ice and salt and draining off water as 
necessary. This will serve eight per- 
sons nicely. Some of the cream may 
be worked in with Spinach greenery, 
as in Pistachio Ice Cream (see recipe), 
and a delicate coating of green given 
to the pudding, which adds to the 
effect. The pudding may be served 
with cream whipped to a stiff broth. 



Orange Pudding 

Ponding d^Orange. 

2 Large Louisiana Oranges. 

% Pound of Butter. 

% Pound of Powdered Sugar. 

1 Stale, Small Sponge Cake. 6 Eggs. 

Grate the rind of the oranges, and 
squeeze out the juice after removing 
the seeds. Grate the inner meat. 
Beat^the butter and sugar to a thick 
cream. Add this to the oranges, grated 
with the rind. Add the crumbled 
sponge cake to the mixture. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and 
the yolks separately. Add them in 
order to the mixture. Place In a mod- 
erately quick oven, and let It bake for 
about a half hour. When done, let It 
cool slightly. Place a meringue on 
top, as In above recipe, and set back 
to bake two minutes more. Serve cold. 



Peach Batter Pudding 

Ponding de P6che8. 

1 Pint of Milk. 2 Cups of Flour. 

3 Eggs. 8 Peaches. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

V2 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Melted Butter. 

Beat the yolks and w^hltes of the 
eggs till very light, and mix, and add 



the milk. Beat steadily until smootli. 
Then add the melted butter, the aaJt 
and baking powder. Have the peaolies 
stewed till almost cooked, and stir 
them into the pudding, after cuttiner 
fine. Then turn the pudding Into tlie 
mold or pan in which it is to be balce<i. 
Bake for an hour, and serve liot. 
with Cream or Hard Sauce. (See rec- 
ipes Sauces for Puddings, etc.) 



Fruit Batter Pnddini; 

Pouding de Fruita, 
(Cherry Batter Pudding, Apple Bet- 
ter Pudding and all fruit batter pud- 
dings are made in the same way as 
Peach Batter Pudding. (See recipe. > 



Pineapple Pudding 

Pouding d*Ananat. 

1 Fine Pineapple. 1 Pint of Milk. 

^ Pound of Flour. 

3 Eggs. 3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

Vi Cup of Sugar. 

A Sauce. 

Boil the milk In a saucepan and add 

the butter. Sift the flour and add 

gradually to the mixture, stirring 

briskly for three minutes. Take off 

the fire, and add the yolks of the 

eggs beaten very light. Stir well, and 

add the powdered sugar. Beat the 

whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and 

add gradually to the milk. Then 

take a pudding mold and butter well; 

sprinkle with sugar and put a layer 

of the milk-and-egg preparation about 

half an inch thick at the bottom. 

Put over this a layer of finely sliced 

pineapple, th^n add another layer of 

the milk and eggs and a layer of the 

pineapple, and continue till all the 

pineapple and the mixture are used 

up. Set the mold in a tin pan of 

warm water and place in the oven 

and cover with buttered paper. Let 

the pudding steam for an hour; then 

remove from the oven, turn into a 

pudding dish, and serve with a Sauce. 

(See recipe Sauces for Puddings, etc.) 



Raspberry Pudding 

Pouding de Fratnhoites, 

1 Quart of Raspberries^ 

% Pound of Powdered Sugar. 

% Pound of Butter. 

1 Stale, Small Sponge Cake. 6 Eggs. 

Stew the berries and proceed in 
the same manner as for Orange Pud- 
ding. Bake for about twenty minutes 
or half an hour after adding the fruit. 



THE PICAYUNC: CK£OLtE COOK BOOK 



257 



and serve cold, with a Cream or Hard 
Sauce. 

These fruit puddiners are the most 
delicious of Louisiana puddings. 

Sago Puddin^r 

Poudino au Bagou. 

1 Quart of Milk. ^ Pound of Sagro. 
H Cup of Powdered Suear. 4 Eg-grs. 
1 Teaspoon ful of Vanilla Essence. 

Boil the millc and add the sago, and 
stir briskly for ten or fifteen minutes. 
Then take off the stove and set to 
cool. Add the sugar and mix thor- 
oughly. Then add Lhe eggs and a 
tablespoonful of Vanilla Essence. Mix 
thoroughly. Butter a pudding mold 
or pan and fill with the mixture. Set 
in a tin pan, and fill the latter with 
hot water. Place in the oven and let 
It steam for half an hour. Remove 
from the fire, turn into a dessert dish 
and send to the table hot. Serve with 
a Cream Sauce. 

Snow Pudding 

Ponding d la "Siege. 

% Box of Gelatine. 1 Pint of Boiling 

Water. 

% Cups of Sugar. 

The Whites of Three Eggs. The Juice of 

3 Lemons. 

Dissolve the gelatine in the boiling 
water, and, when nearly cold, add one 
cup of powdered sugar and the Juice 
of one lemon. Beat well and lightly, 
and strain. When cold, beat as white 
as snow, and add the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Beat all 
thoroughly, and pour into a mold. 
Stand in a cold place for four hours 
to harden. Then make a Custard 
Sauce by beating the yolks of the 
eggs together with a half cup of sugar 
till very light. Stir them into the 
milk, which should be boiling. Let 
them cook, stirring constantly, for two 
or three minutes. Then add a tea- 
spoonful of Vanilla, and set to cool. 
Serve with the pudding, pouring the 
sauce upon it. 

Strawberry Padding 

Pouding de FraUet, 

1 Quart of Strawberries. H Pound of 

Sugar. 
1 Stale, Small Sponge Cake. 6 Eggs. 

Stew the berries and proceed in the 
same manner as for Raspberry Pud- 
ding. 

Quince Pudding is prepared in the 
same manner. 



Sweet Potato Pudding 

Pouding de Patates Douces. 

1 Pint of Mashed Sweet Potatoes. 
% Pound of Sugar. % Pound of Butter. 

8 Eggs. 

The Juice and Rind of T\fo Oranges 

and a Lemon. 

^ Spoon of Ground Mace. 

The Siame of Cinnamon' and Allspice. 

^ Grated Nutmeg. 

Orate the potatoes and mash them 
through a sieve, if you use them raw. 
If you use the cold boiled potatoes, 
simply Vnash them. Beat the butter 
and the sugar to a rich cream, and 
add the well -beaten yolks of the eggs, 
and then add the grated potatoes, and 
th3 spices, and finally the whites of 
the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Mix 
all well. Turn into a buttered baking 
pan, and let the pudding bake in a 
moderate oven for three-quarters of 
an hour. Serve hot or cold, with 
C.'eam Sauce. (See recipe.) 

Tapioca Padding 

Pouding au Tap.ioca. 

1 Quart of Milk. 1 Cup of Tapioca. 
14 Cup of Sugar. 1 Teaspoonful of 

Vanilla. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Wash the tapioca well, and then 
add it to the milk and let it soak for 
at least two hours and a half. Then 
beat the eggs separately until light. 
Add them lightly to the sugar, beat 
very light, add the salt and the tapi- 
oca, and bake for forty-five minutes 
in a moderate oven. The pudding 
may be served either hot or cold. 

To make Tapioca Fruit Pudding, 
add one pint of preserved raspberries 
to the above. 

The Queen of All Paddings 

La Reine dea Poudingt. 

1 Pint of Bread Crumbs. 

1 Quart of Milk. 1 Cup of Sugar. 4 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

The Juice of a Lemon. 

% Pint of Seeded Currants. 

^ Pint of Raisins. 

Soak the bread crumbs in water for 
about an hour. Then squeeze thor- 
oughly. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
and the sugar very light, and then 
add the milk and the bread crumbs, 
beating all light. Add the melted 
butter and the seeded raisins and the 
currants, and the Juice of one lemon 
and the grated rind of half a lemon. 
Beat all thoroughly together, and set 
in a moderate oven for half an hour. 
In the meantime, beat the whites to 
a very stiff froth. Add four table- 



258 



THE PICAYUNE CREX>IiE COOK BOOK 



spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and beat 
thoroughly till very stiff. After half 
an hour take the pudding out of the 
oven, if it is nicely browned, and put 
over the top a layer of some fruit 
jelly, and then a layer of the whites, 
and then another layer of the 
Jelly, and a last layer of the whites 
of the eggs. Set it back in the oven 
to brown for several minutes, and 
serve cold with Cream Sauce. This 
pudding, however, is so delicious that 



it may be served without any sauce. 
The above proportions will serve eight 
persona 

Tipsy Squire 

Pouding au Bon Carmarde, 

Left Over Sponge Cake. 
A Boiled Custard. 

Make a rich Boiled Custard 

recipe); place the cake in a 

glass dish, and pour the custard over 

it. Decorate with blanched lemons, 

and serve cold. 



deep 



CHAPTER XXXV 



CUSTARDS MD CREAMS 

^Am OTHER DESSERTS 



Det Flans, Des Cr^ea, et Autre$ Desserts 



Blanc Mange 

Bianc-Mangcr. 

I Quart of Cream. 

H Cup of Sugar. V6 Ounce of Gelatine. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

Dissolve the gelatine in water, and 
then mix with the milk and cream. 
I^et it come to a boil, add the Vanilla, 
pour into a mold, let it harden and 
serve cold. 

Cornstarch Blanc Mange 

Blanc-Manger d la F6cule dc Mais. 

1 Quart of Milk. 3 Tablespoonfuls of 

Cornstarch. 3 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 

The Whites of 3 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Lemon Extract. 

Dissolve the cornstarch lightly in 
one pint of milk, and then add the 
sugar and the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Put this mix- 
ture into a pint of boiling milk. Let 
it come to a boll. Flavor with the 
lemon; pour into cups to cool. Then, 
when very cold, turn out, and servtf 
will jelly and cream. This will do for 
six persons. Serve, if you wish, with 
a Cream Sauce. 

Neapolitan Blanc Mange 

Blanc-Manger d la Neapolitan. 

1 Quart of Milk. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Cornstarch. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 

The Yolk of 1 Egg. The White of 3 Eggs 

1 Teaspoonful of Lemon Extract. 
1 Tablespoonful of Orated Vanilla Choc- 
late. Whipped Cream. 

To make a Neapolitan Blanc Man- 
ger, first make the above preparation, 



and then separate it into four parts. 
Put the first into a mold, and then 
stir into it, while warm, one heaping 
tablespoonful of srrated vanilla choco- 
late. Pour the white preparation into 
the same mold, on top of this. Then 
a layer of the chocolate, and then 
the white. Cover the last layer with 
the yolk of an egg, and set to cool 
and harden. Serve cut into thin slices, 
serve with whipped cream. 

Velvet Blanc Mange 

Blanc-Manger VcloutS. 

2 Cups of Cream. 

H Cup of Powdered Sugar. 

Vt Cup of Gelatine. Dissolved in Water 

(hot). 

Boil the cream, sugar and gelatine 
together, stirring until smooth. Add 
a teaspoonful of Almond Extract. Mix 
well, and pour into a mold, and set 
to cool and harden. 

BoUed Custard 

Oeufs au Lait, 

1 Quart of Milk. 4 Eggs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Cornstarch* 

H Cup of Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

Set the milk to boil. Beat the yolks 

of the eggs and the sugar very light 

Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and 

stir carefully into the yolks and the 

sugar. Moisten the cornstarch with a 

little cold milk and stir into the 

boiling milk. Continue to stir until 

it commences to thicken. Then add 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



259 



the sugar and the eggs. Stir and let 
it cook for one moment longer, and 
take from the fire, add the vanilla 
and turn into a dish to cool. Serve 
very cold. 

The cornstarch is added to thicken 
the custard. If the milk is rich, it 
may be omitted, the custard being far 
more delicate without it. 

Baked custard without cornstarch 
is made in the same manner; the cus- 
tard is put in a baking dish, placed 
in the oven, and allowed to bake till 
quite firm. By adding two tablespoon- 
f uls more of * cornstarch the custard 
may be thickened, if desired. 



Cap Costard 

Oeuf8 au Lait en Tasseg, 

4 Eggs. 1 Quart of Milk. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Cornstarch (if de- 
sired). 
H Cup of Sugar. 
1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla Extract. 

Beat the eggs together until light, 
and then add the sugar, and beat till 
very light. Now add the milk and 
the nutmeg. Fill a large pan with 
boiling water. Pour the custard into 
cups or into a smaller pan, and set in 
the pan of boiling water, and let it 
bake till firm in the center. Set to 
cool, and serve in the cups if they 
have been used. 



Costard Sooffl^ 

Flan 8ouffl6. 

1 Cup Milk. 4 Eggs. 2 Tablespoonfuls 

Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful Vanilla. 

Boil the milk. Blend the butter 
and the flour nicely, and add to the 
boiling milk. Stir constantly over the 
fire for ten minutes. Beat the yolks 
of the eggrs and the sugar together, 
and add these to the milk. Then set 
the mixture to cool. When cool, beat 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
and add to the mixture. Turn into a 
buttered baking dish, and bake in a 
quick oven for twenty minutes. Serve 
with Cream Sauce, while hot, other- 
wise it will fall. 



Rice Costard 

Riz au Lait. 

See Rice Custard under chapter on 
Louisiana Rice. 



Tapioca Costard 

Flan au Taj^ioca. 

Vi, Cup of Tapioca, y^ Cup of Sugar. 

4 Eggs. 1 Pint of Water. 
1 Tumbler of Currant or Strawberry 

Jell3». 

Wash the tapioca well several times, 
and then soak it in a full pint of water 
for two hours. Add It to the jelly, 
mixing thoroughly, and then add the 
sugar, and mix again until the tapioca 
is very clear. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a very stiff froth, and add 
them to the tapioca, and turn it into a 
mold and set away to harden. Make 
a Vanilla Cream Sauce with the yolks 
of the eggs, and serve cold with the 
custard. (See Vanilla Cream Sauce.) 



Almond Costard 

Flan A^Amande^. 

1 Pint of New Milk. 1 Cup of Sugar. 

y^ Pound of Blanched Almonds 

(Scalded). 

The Yolks of 4 Eggs. 

Blanch the almonds after shelling, 
and chop very fine. Blend the yolks 
and sugar, beating thoroughly, and 
add to the boiling milk. Then add the 
almonds. Stir well, set into cups to 
cool. Place on top a meringue made 
of two tablespoonfuls of white pow- 
dered sugar and the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Set in 
the oven for a few seconds to brown, 
and serve cold. 



Macaroon Costard 

Flan de Macaron%. 

1 Quart of Milk. 

The Yolks of 6 Eggs. H Tablespoonful 

Butter. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

% (^up of Sugar. 

1 Dozen Macaroons. 

Set the milk to boll. Blend the 
butter and the flour, and stir into the 
boiling milk. Beat the yolks of the 
eggs with half a cup of sugar, very 
light, and add this to the milk, stir- 
ring constantly for one minute, and 
take from the fire to cool. Add a 
tablespoonful of orange Juice or ex- 
tract of orange. When cool, crumble 
one dozen macaroons over the top 
of the dish. Make a meringue with 
the whites of the eggs and two table- 
spoonfuls of powdered white sugar. 
Beat to a stiff froth, pile on the cus- 
tard, and set in the oven for a few 
minutes to brown. Serve very cold. 



260 



TH£ PICAYUNE CREOLiE COOK BOOK 



Charlotte Russe 

1 Quart of Good Cream. 

% Cup of Powdered White Suear. 

^ Box of Gelatine. 2 Teaspoonfuls of 

Vanilla. 
% Pound of Lady Finsera. 

Line a glass dish with the lady fin- 
gers, or with small slices of cake. Soak 
the gelatine in cold w^ater, just cov- 
ered, for half an hour. Whip the 
cream, and then dissolve the soaked 
gelatine. Add the Vanilla Extract. 
Add the sugar to the cream carefully, 
and then strain in the gelatine very 
carefully. Stir immediately, and then 
pour the cream over the lady fingers, 
and set away to harden. 

Parisian Charlotte Russc 

Charlotte Ruste d la Pariaienne. 

% Pound of Stale Lady Fingers. 

% Box of Gelatine. 1 Cup Grated 

Cocoanut. % Pound of Macaroons. 

4 Eggs. 2 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 

Soak the gelatine in cold water for 
about half an hour. Put one-half of 
the cream to one side, and whip the 
rest. Put the remaining pint to boil, 
and stir into it the sugar and eggs, 
beaten together till very light. Stir 
abou^ one minute, and as it thickens 
add the gelatine, which has been well 
dissolved in a little warm water. Then 
add the lady fingers and a teaspoonful 
of vanilla; add the macaroons and the 
grated cocoanut. Turn all this into 
a bowl or tin basin, place it on ice, 
and stir continually until it begins to 
harden. Add the whipped cream, and 
stir all very carefully. When well 
mixed, wet a glass dish or a pretty 
mold, turn the Charlotte Russe into it, 
and stand on the ice to harden. 

Some utilize a stale sponge cake in 
making Charlotte Russe, cutting out 
the inside and leaving the sides and 
bottom about an inch in thickness. 
The mixture is poured into this cake, 
and served cold, with sauce. 

Floating Island 

Oeufs d la Xeige. 

1 Quart of Milk. 

4 Eggs. 4 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla. 

^ Cup of Currant Jelly. 

Put the milk to boll in a farina 
boiler. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
with the sugar till very light, and 
stir the milk into them as it begins 
to boil. Let it thicken one minute. 
Then take from the fire, and add the 
vanilla and set aside to cool. Beat 



the whites of the eggs to a stifT froth, 
and when the mixture is cold pour it 
into a glass dish, heap on the -wliite? 
of the eggs, and dot here and there 
with bits of Currant .^elly. Dust these 
with powdered sugar, and serve very 
cold. Some add a tablespoonful of 
cornstarch to the boiling milk, if it is 
desired to thicken the preparation. 
But the taste of cornstarch is never 
as delightful as that of the mixture 
pure and simple. 

Apple Snow 

Neige auw Pommes, 

6 Fine Apples. 1 Cup Fine White Sugrar. 

The Whites of 6 Fresh Eggs. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Pare and core and cut up the ap- 
ples, and steam them in two table- 
spoonfuls of water, with a little grated 
lemon peel, till quite soft. Then press 
them through a sieve, and add the 
sugar and the lemon Juice. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, 
and add two-thirds to the apples, stir- 
ring all the whites, and when the 
eggs and apples are very light beat 
this with a little powdered white 
sugar to form a meringue. Place the 
apples in custard glasses, heap on the 
meringue, and serve immediately. 

This preparation may be Improved 
by putting the apples into a dish, 
heaping on the meringue and baking 
for one minute In the oven, and serv- 
ing very cold. 

Pineapple Snow 

Neige d VAfMnat. 

1 Pineapple. The Whites of 4 Eggs. 

1 Pint of Whipped Cream. 

% Cup of Powdered Sugar. 

Pare the pineapple, and grate it. 
Beat the whites of the eggs until 
foamy, and then add by degrees the 
sifted sugar. Add one tablespoon of 
lemon juice, and the whipped cream, 
which must be just oflP the ice, and 
when all Is very stiff beat In the pine- 
apple, pulp and juice, adding as much 
as the cream and the meringue will 
hold without becoming too soft. Place 
in glasses, and serve yery cold. This 
is a delightful summer dessert. 

Orange Snow 

Neige d* Oranges. 

6 Fine Louisiana Oranges. 
A Snow Cream, as Above. 

Prepare this dish in exactly the 
same manner as above. 



THK PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



261 



First slice the orangest and, remov- 
tnsT the seeds, sprinkle sugar over 
them before adding the snow cream. 

Lemon Snow may be made in the 
same manner. 

Snow Cream 

Neige d la Crime, 
The Whites of 4 Eggs. 

1 Pint of Cream. 2 Teaspoonfuls of 
Vanilla or Lemon Extract. 
\k Cup of Powdered Sugar. 

Whip the cream and set on ice. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a foam, 
and then add the sifted white sugar, 
and beat steadily till the mixture be- 
comes very stiff and glossy. Add the 
Lemon or the Vanilla. Stir the whipped 
cream carefully into the meringue, 
and set it in small custard glasses to 
get cold. The Creoles often add a 
few blanched almonds. Serve very 
cold, as a summer dessert. 

Strawberries, black berries, peaches, 
pears, figs, etc.. in their natural state, 
may all be made into "snows** by fol- 
lowing the directions given in Pine- 
apple Snow; only the peaches and 
pears and figs and bananas must be 
chopped, and strawberries and other 
berries must be served whole in the 
snow. Grated cocoanut may also be 
served in the same manner. 

A Creole Summer Pudding 

Pouding d'HU. 
1 Pint of Lemon Jelly. 

1 Cup of Stoned Cherries. 

1 Cup of Malaga Grapes. 2 Oranges. 

2 Bananas. H Pineapple. 
1 Pint of Snow Cream. 

Make the Lemon Jelly (see recipe), 
add stoned cherries, a few Malaga 
grapes, and the meat of two oranges, 
two bananas and half a pineapple, 
sliced. Pour a ilttle jelly into eal3h 
custard glass. Put a layer first of one 
fruit, then of another, then a layer 
of snow cream and continue alternat- 
ing till the glass is filled with the 
snow on top. Serve ice cold. 

Or the layers may be made in a 
dish, and when ready to serve pour 
over a thin custard, made of the yolks 
of four eggs and a quart of milk and 
a half cup of sugar. Serve very cold. 

Apple Sponge 

8ouffl€ de Pomtnes. 

1 Pound of Apples. 1 Pound Sugar. 

3 Eggs. % Box of Gelatine. 

The Grated Rind of a Lemon. 

% Pint of Boiling Water. 

Boil the sugar and water, and when 

very clear skim the surface. Have the 



apples pared and cored and sliced 
nicely, and place them in the syrup. 
Let them stew until very tender. Then 
add the gelatine, which has been 
soaked in cold water until melted, 
and when well done press all through 
a sieve. Then add the rind and Juice 
of the lemon, using only the very 
thin rind in grating the lemon. Stir 
until it begins to cool and thicken. 
Then add the whites of the eggs, beat- 
en to a stiff froth, stirring and beating 
until cool and thick. Use the yolks 
for a Vanilla Sauce (see recipe), and 
turn the Apple Sponge in a dish and 
serve with the sauce poured over it. 
Peach Sponge is made in the same 
way. 

Strawberry Sponge 

8ouffl6 de FraiscM. 

% Pint of Strawberries. 
H Cup of Sugar. 4 Eggs. 
1 Pint of Boiling Water. 

Stew the strawberries gently, and 
press them through a sieve. Soak 
the gelatine in a cup* of cold water 
for an hour. Pour it into the boiling 
water, and let it dissolve well. Add 
the sugar, and let it thicken gently. 
Then strain, and add the strawberries, 
and set it upon ice to cool. Occasion- 
ally stir to prevent the fruit from 
settling at the bottom. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and 
add them to the sponge, beating 
steadily till very smooth. Set in a 
fancy bowl to harden, and serve with 
Vanilla Sauce poured over it. (See 
Vanilla Sauce.) 

Blackberry Sponge, Lemon Sponge, 
Orange, Raspberry, Currant and Pig 
and Pineapple Sponge are made in the- 
same way. 

Apple Sago 

Pommea au Sagou. 

1 Cup of Sago. 8 Large Apples. 

1 Quart of Boiling Water. Sweetened 

Cream. 

Soak the Sago for half an hour in 
cold water, and then put it in a 
farina boiler and add one quart of 
boiling water. Pare the apples, and 
add to the Sago, and let all boil to- 
gether till very tender. Sweeten to 
taste. Then bake in a moderate oven 
for twenty minutes, and serve with 
cream. 

Tapioca may be used instead of the 
Sago, and you will then have Apple 
Tapioca. Cherry, Orange, Peach and 
other fruit tapiocas and sagoes arc 
made in the same way. 



262 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



Ambrosia * 

AtnhroUie. 

1 Dozen Sweet Louisiana Oranges. 
1 Cup of White Sugar. 1 Cocoanuu 

Grate the cocoanut after paring:. 
Then peel and slice the oranges, tak- 
ing out the seeds. Have a nice large 
glass dish. Put first a layer of oranges 
in the dish, sprinkle with sugar, and 
then a layer of cocoanut, till all the 
oranges and cocoanut are used, the 
layer of cocoanut being the last. 
Sprinkle with powdered white sugar, 
and let it stand about two hours be- 
fore serving. This is a fanxous Creole 
dessert. 



Pineapple and Orange Ambrosia 

. AmhroUie d'Ananaa et d'Orangest 

1 Large, Ripe Pineapple. 

6 Oranges. 1 Cup of Sugar. 

Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Slice one large, rip^ pineapple and 

six oranges. Put in a glass bowl one 

layer of oranges, spripkle pulverized 

sugar over them; then one layer of 

pineapples, al^o sprinkled with sugar, 

pour over all the strained lemon juice. 

and continue till all the fruit is used. 

Let it stand about two hours before 

serving. 

Minute Cake 

T6t Fait. 

6 liggs. 5 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 
3 Tablespoonfuls Flour. 2 Tablespoon- 
fuls Milk. 
The Juice and Rind of a Lemon. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs to a 
cream, and then add the sugar, beat- 
ing thoroughly till very, very, light. 
Then blend tlie flour and milk until 
smooth, and add. Add the Juice of 
the lemon and the grated rind, and 
beat well again. Then add the whites 
of the eggs, beaten to a thick froth, 
turn into a buttered dish and bake 
fifteen minutes in a quick oven. 



Strawberry Short Calce 

P(it6 Bri86e aux Fraiacs. 

% Pound of Sifted Flour. % Pound of 

Sugar. 

2 Quarts of Strawberries. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

6 Eggs. 

1 Quart of Cream. 

H Pound of Powdered Sugar. 

Stem the strawberries. Sweeten to 
taste, and slightly mash. Then set 
them aside. Blend the sugar and 
butter together until very smooth, and 
add the baking powder, and blend 
well. Add " the salt Then add the 



eggs, breaking them in whole, one 
at a time, and beat all well for ten 
minutes. Add the grated rind of liaXf 
a lemon; by degrees add the flour, 
and mix all together very gently. Di- 
vide int6 two parts; put each into a 
well buttered baking tin and bake 
In a moderate oven thirty mlnutea 
When done, remove the cakes and 
allow them to cool. Detach them both 
from the tins by passing a knife grently 
around. Have a dessert dish ready 
and lay one of the cakes upon it. 
Spread two tablespoonfuls of whipped 
cream over, and then cover liberally 
with strawberries. Cover with an- 
other cake and spread as before -with 
cream and then with strawberries. 
Lay the other cake on top and sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. Serve with 
"Whipped Cream k la Vanille" <8ee 
recipe), or with rich cream or milk. 
Peach Shortcake, Raspberry Short- 
cake and Blackberry Shortcake are 
made in the same way. 

CREAMS 

Dea Orimea. 

General Directions for Making Cream 

Desserts 

In making creams for desserts, one 
unfailing rule must be observed. In 
preparing a cream for six or eight 
persons, use a half box of powdered 
gelatine. The gelatine must be soaked 
for about half an hour before using 
In water just sufficient to cover it. 
The cream must always be whipped, 
the yolks of the eggs must be beaten 
separately from the whites, and the 
whites of the eggs must be beaten 
to a stiff froth. In using flavoring 
extracts, select, according to taste. 
Essence of Vanilla, Lemon, Pineapple, 
Almonds, Aromatic Roses, Orange 
Flower Water, etc. 



Calf's Foot Jelly, or Gelatine 

Oel6e de Pieda de Veau. 

4 Calf's Feet. 5^ Quarts Cold Water. 
Juice of 2 Lemons. Juice of 2 Orangea 

% of the Rind of a Lemon, Grated. 
The Whites and the Crushed Shells of 

2 Eggs. 

1 Pound of White Sugar. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Grated Nutmeg. 

1 Stick of *Grated Cinnamon. 

Wash the feet well, scrubbing them 
thoroughly, in cold water. Then put 
them into a kettle to boil with the 
cold water in the above quantity. Let 



miE FICATUNX: CREOJJK COOK BOOK 



263 



t:hein simmer slowly for at least seven 
or eight hours, till the liquor Is re- 
duced one-half. Then strain the 
liquid into an earthen bowl, and set 
it away for at least twelve hours, or 
over nlgrht. Then skim carefully ev- 
ery particle of fat from the surface, 
and remove all sediment or dregs 
from the Jelly. Put It Into a porce- 
laln-llned kettle, and set over the fire, 
and let It melt slowly. Add the whites 
of the eggs, well beaten to a froth, 
and the crushed shells, the ground 
cinnamon, the nutmeg, the sugar and 
lemon and orange Juice, and the rind 
of the lemon. Mix all these ingredi- 
ents thoroughly, and let the Jelly boll 
hard, without stirring again, for twen- 
ty minutes. Then add half a cup of 
water, and let It come again to a boll. 
Set It on a very low fire, where It 
cannot boll, and keep It closely cov- 
ered for half an hour. Have ready 
a flannel bag, and dip it into boiling 
water. Hang it up with a bowl un- 
derneath, and pour the Jelly* into the 
bag. suspending the bag from the 
end of a thick, short pole, where It 
can drip easily. Tie the end of the 
bag, and let the Jelly drip freely. On 
no account squeeze or touch it, If you 
wish to have an unclouded Jelly. Then 
turn the drippings into a bowl or 
mold, and set the Jelly aside In a cool 
place. Tou will then have the genu- 
ine Calf's Foot Jelly, and will know 
that It has not been made of the horns 
and hoofs of animals, etc. 

Whipped Creani 

Crime FoueiUe. 

1 Pint of Sweet Cream. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Powdered Sugar. 

In whipping cream remember that 
the first great essential is to have 
good cream, and that the great secret 
of whipping depends upon the right, 
steady stroke. Always set the cream 
on ice for several hours before using. 
Then sweeten It to taste. Have ready 
a second bowl, beat the cream, or, 
rather, whip It, as you would in beat- 
ing eggs to a froth, with clear, steady 
strkes, using an egg beater, or, if you 
have a small crank churn, which is 
better, use It, pressing the dasher up 
and down very hard, and removing 
the cream as it rises around the dash- 
board. In the same way remove the 
cream as it rises, while beating with 
the egg beater, putting the whipped 
portion into the second bowl, and con- 



tinue the process of whipping until all 
the cream Is drained. Set on ice, and 
it will keep cool, fresh and sweet and 
firm. 

The above process is intended when 
the cream is to be used as a garnish 
for desserts. Any essence may be 
used. When whipping cream for cof- 
fee, or when you desire the plain 
whipped cream, do not use sugar or 
essence, but simply proceed to whip 
the cream as directed above. Good, 
rich milk may be whipped into the 
cream. 

Following the above explicit direc- 
tions, it should be easy for even the 
veriest amateur to make any of the 
following delightful Creole cream des- 
serts: 

Wblpped Cream and Strawberries, 

Raspberries, Blackberries, Etc 

Crtme FouetHe aux Frai8c$, aux FramhoiscB 
ou aux M^rea, etc. 

1 Pint of Berries. 

1 Pint of Whipped Cream. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 

Stem the berries, sprinkle nicely 
with white sugar, and set aside for 
several hours In a cool place. Serve 
wth the whipped cream, dishing the 
berries first in serving, and heaping 
the cream prettily on top. 

IVhlpped Creani With Pea<dies, 
Cherries, Etc 

Crtme Fouett^e, aux Pechia, aux Ceriaea, etc. 

1 Pint of Fruit, Peaches, or Cherries, or 

Bananas, or Pears, etc. 

1 Pint of Whipped Cream. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 

Stone the peaches, and slice or cut 
them nicely, adding sugar to taste. 
In like manner stone, but do not cut 
the cherries if this fruit is used. If 
bananas or pears are preferred, peel 
and slice nicely. Seed the pears. 
Sprinkle the fruit with sugar, and set 
it aside in a cool place for two hours; 
then serve with the whipped cream, 
heaping it in generous measure at the 
moment of serving. All fruits that 
may be eaten with creapi are pre- 
pared in the same manner. 

Whipped Cream With Vanilla, Etc. 

Crime FouetUe d la VanUle, etc. 

1 Pint of Cream. 

2 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonf ul of Vanilla Extract. 

Put a pint of sweet cream into a 

basin, add the sugar and the essence 

and proceed to whip according to the 



264 



THE PICAYUNE GREX>L£ COOK BOOK 



directions erven in "Whipped Cream" 
(see recipe.) Always remember to 
add the essence before whipping the 
cream. This is the unvaryingr rule to 
be observed whenever you wish to 
flavor with any extract. 

Foamy Cream 

Orbme en Mou9§e. 
1 Pint of Whipped Cream. 

Proceed exactly as in the above 

recipe. 



bing them together with the hand& 
Whip in one quart of milk, the whites 
of two eggs, and four ounces of powd- 
ered sugar. Let the milk boil slowly 
on the fire till it is reduced one-half, 
and then add the almonds, which have 
been chopped very fine, and a bi^ 
tablespoonful of Orange Flower Water 
and let the mixture boil for three min- 
utes longer. Set it to cool. Then 
garnish with almonds that have been 
passed in Caramel or melted sugar 
and allowed to cool. 



Whipped Cream With ColTee 

Or^e Fouettie au Cafi, 

1 Pint of Whipped Cream. 

2 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 

3 Ounces of Extract of Coffee. 

Make three ounces of Creole Caf6 
Noir. (See recipe.) Add three table- 
spoonfuls of this to the cream and 
sugar. Then proceed in exactly the 
same manner as in Whipped Cream 
with Vanilla. When ready to serve, 
heap the cream in the center of a very 
cold dish, and serve immediately. 



light Cream « 

Crhne Ligdre. 

1 Pint of Milk. 1 Pint of Cream. 

4 or 6 Tablespoonfuls of Powdered 

White Sugar. 

2 Fresh Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Orange Flower 

Water. 

To one pint of milk add the same 
quantity of cream, and four or five 
tablespoonfuls of powdered white 
sugar. Let it boil till reduced to one- 
half the quantity. Take ott the stove, 
and whip in the beaten whites of two 
fresh eggs, and, when it is as white 
as snow, add a half pint of whipped 
cream. Place upon the fire, and let 
it simmer gently, stirring continually. 
Add a tablespoonful of orange flower 
water, or other essence, take off, let 
it cool, and serve when cold. 



Sweet Almond Cream 

Crime d'Amandet Doucea. 

6 Nice Almonds. 

1 Quart of Milk. The Whites of Two 

Eggs. 
4 Ounces of Powdered White Sugar. 

Take six nice almonds and shell 
them. Then blanch them by throw- 
ing into boiling water and letting them 
stand over a very low fire for five 
minutes. Then throw into cold water, 
and takQ out the inner skins by rub- 



Burnt Cream 

Crime au Caramel. 

1 Pint of Milk. 1 Pint of Cream. 
4 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. The Tolks 

of 3 Eggs. 
1 Teaspoonful of Caramel. 

Boil one pint of milk and one pint 
of cream together. Add four ounces 
of powdered white sugar and the yolks 
of three eggs, nicely beaten together 
till very light. Add one teaspoonful 
of Caramel (see recipe), let it reduce 
one-half, strain, garnish nicely with 
any fruits, and serve cold. 

Creamed Coffee 

Crime au Cafi. 

2 Ounces of Finely Ground Coffee. 

1 Pint of Milk. % Pint of Cream. 

4 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 
The Yolks of 3 Eggs. 

Boil two ounces of finely ground 
and powdered coffee in one pint of 
milk. Add one-half pint of cream 
as it begins to boil. Then add the 
yolks of three eggs, which have been 
well beaten with four ounces of pow- 
dered sugar. Let it reduce one-half, 
take off and strain till clear, let it 
cool and serve. 

Mlilte Coffee Cream 

Crime Blanche au Cafi. 

2 Ounces of Coffee. 1 Pint of Milk. 
H Pint of Cream. 4 Ounces of Powdered 

Sugar. 
The Yolks of 3 Eggs. 

To make a. "Crdme Blanche au 
Caffi" parch two ounces of coffee, and 
throw the grains, while hot, into the 
boiling milk. Then proceed exactly 
as above. 

Chocolate Cream 

Crime au Chocolat. 

1 Pint of Milk. 1 Pint of Cream. 

Yolks of 3 Eggs. 4 Ounces of Sugar. 

2 Ounces of Grated Chocolate. 

Boil one pint of milk and one pint 
of cream. Add, while boiling, three 



1HE PICAYUN£ CREOLE COOK BOOK 



265 



yolks of eggrs, beaten well with four 
ounces of sugar. Stir constantly, and 
let it reduce one-half. Add two ounces 
of grated chocolate. Let it boil three 
or four minutes, take off, and serve 
when very cold. 

Macaroon Cream 

Cri^ne au if oca rona. 

6 Macaroons. 1 Pint of Milk. 
1 Tablespoonful 



Flower 



of Orange 

"Water. 

% White Praline. 

2 Ounces of Powdered White Sugar. 

The Yolks of 4 Fresh KggB, 

Crumble six macaroons (a maca- 
roon is a small cake, made of almonds 
and sugar — see recipe), soak them in 
a pint of milk; add one tablespoonful 
of Orange Flower Water, in which 
you have put one-half of a mashed 
Praline (see recipe Pralines), and add 
two ounces of sugar, and the yolks 
of four fresh eggs, well beaten till very 
light. Set on the stove and let is sim- 
mer constantly till reduced almost 
one-half. Let it cool, and serve in 
the gl^sss in which it has hardened. 

Chestnut Cream 

Crime de Mamma. 

2 Dozen Chestnuts. 

Tolks of 2 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Pint of 

Cream. 

1 Pint of Milk. 

4 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 

Shell the chestnut.s and blanch 
them, and pound sufficient quantity 
to make two ounces reduced to flour. 
Or roast two dozen chestnuts and peel 
them (which is far better), and pound 
them till very fine, and blend with a 
little milk till you have a thick paste. 
Add the yolks of two eggs, well beat- 
en, and two tablespoonfuls of the best 
butter. Beat well, and add four ounces 
of powdered white sugar. Beat all 
this very light, and put into one pint 
of boiling milk, or half milk and half 
cream. Let it boil for about ten min- 
utes, and then take off, strain, dec- 
orate in a glass dish, and serve cold. 

Peannt Cream 

Crime auw Pietachet. 

4 Ounces of Fresh Peanuts. 

The Rind of 1 Lemon. 1 Gill of Water. 

% Pint Each of Milk and Cream. 

1% Ounces of Powdered White Sugar. 

1 Ounce of Gelatine. 

Peel four ounces of fresh peanuts, 
and pound them into a flour. The quan- 



tity must equal four ounces shelled. 
Add the grated rind of a lemon, and a 
little water, sufficient to make all into 
a thick paste. Boil each quantities of 
milk and cream to equal a pint and a 
half, and add an ounce and a half of 
white powdered sugar. Let it cool, 
and add an ounce of gelatine, mixed 
with one spoon of water. Mix well 
and then strain through a sieve. Put 
the cream back on the Are to heat, 
and add the peanuts. Let all come 
to a good boil, take off and set it 
aside to cool, and serve very cold. 



Snow Cream 

Crime d la Neige. 

1 Pint of Fresh, Sweet Cream. 
8 Tablespoonfuls of White Powdered 

Sugar. 

The Whites of 2 Esrgs. 

1 Coffeespoon of Orange Flower Water. 

Add to one pint of fine, fresh, sweet 
cream eight tablespoonfuls of white 
powdered sugar, the whites of two 
eggs, well beaten to a froth, one cof- 
feespoonful of Orange Flower Water, 
and whip all together steadily till the 
cream rises, taking it out as it does, 
and putting in another bowl, as in 
"Crime Fouett^e" (see recipe) till all 
is drained. Place it in a little basket, 
lined with a fine linen napkin, and 
serve as quickly as possible. 

The cream may be varied by color- 
ing it with a little Sa£fron Powder to 
make it yellow, with carmine or 
cochineal to make it pink and rosy, 
only, when doing this, add a little 
aromatic essence, such as vanilla, 
lemon or pineapple. 

All the above creams may be served 
with plain or whipped cream. 



Bavarian Creams 

Crime Bavaroise. 

1 Quart of Cream. 

H Pint of Gelatine, or ^ Box. 

1 Gill of Cold Water. ^ Cup of Sugrar. 

The Yolks of 4 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla. 

First of all, in making all Bavarian 
creams, follow implicitly the general 
directions given for making Cream 
Desserts, viz: Soaking the gelatine, 
and, before whipping the cream, cool 
it for at least an hour on the ice. 
Then put one pint of fresh cream or 
milk in a farlnu, boiler, and add the 
sugar, and bring it to a boil. As it 
boils pour in the gelatine. Stir con- 



266 



THE PICAYUITE GREX>IJS COOK BOOK 



Btantly till the latter is .well dissolved 
and blended, and set aside to cool. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs to a cream, 
and stir them in the cold cream, 
blendinfT and beating vigorously. Then 
add the vanilla and set it away on 
the ice. When the boiled cream is 
quite cold, and has begun to thicken, 
stir it till perfectly smooth, and then 
stir in the whipped cream with a few 
light strokes. Have ready the mold 
or freezer, well rinsed, and fill with 
the cream. Set it away to cool and 
when quite firm turn it out, and serve 
with plain cream or whipped cream. 



Apricot Bavarian Cream 

Crhne Bavaroise auw AbricoU, 

1 Pint of Fresh Apricots or 1 Pint Can. 
^ Box of Gelatine, or Vi Pint. 
1 Pint of Cold Water. 
,1 Pint of Cream. 

Soak the gelatine and whip the 
cream. If the apricots are fresh, stew 
them and sweeten to taste. If canned, 
press them through a colander or 
sieve. Proceed to add a gelatine 
which has been dissolved in a little 
boiling water, and then turn into a 
bowl. Stand upon cracked ice, and 
stir constantly till it begins to thicken, 
and then add the whipped cream, stir- 
ring constantly till mixed well. Turn 
into a mold to harden and serve with 
whipped cream. 

Peach or Plum Bavarian Cream 
may be made in exactly the same 
manner as the above, using eight or 
nine fresh peaches, stoned, or a one- 
pint can of fresh ones. Use one pint 
of plums. 



Strawberry Bavarian Cream 

Crime Bavaroi»e aua FraUes, 

1 Quart of Fresh, Stemmed Straw- 

berries 

% Box of Gelatine, or ^ Pint. 

1 Pint of Cream. 1 Cup of Sugar. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

Soak the gelatine, and prepare the 
whipped cream. Then mash the 
strawberries and press them through 
a sieve. Add the white powdered 
sugar. Melt the gelatine by standing 
over boiling water, and then add it 
to the strawberry Juice. Mix thor- 
oughly. Then turn it into a tin pan 
or mold, set the basin on a pan of 
cracked Ice, stir constantly till it 
begins to thicken, and then add the 
whipped cream, stirring it gradually 



till all is thoroughly mixed. Then 
pour into a mold and stand in aa 
ice-cold place to harden. 

Raspberry Bavarian Cream 

Or&me Bavaroiae au» FramhoUea, 

1 Pint of Raspberry Juice. 

1 Pint of Cream. H Cup of Sugar. 

H Pint of Gelatine. 

Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for Strawberry Bavarian 
Cream. 



Pineapple Bavarian Cream 

Crime Bavaroise d rAnanas. 

1 Pint of Grated Pineapple. 1 Pint of 

Cream. 

1 Cup of Sugar. ^ Pint of Gelatine. 

^ Cup of Cold Water. 

Cover the gelatine with the water, 
and let it soak for half an hour. Then 
stand it over boiling water, and let 
it melt. Grate the pineapple, and add 
the sugar, and let it simmer gently 
till reduced to a liquid. Then stir 
the gelatine into the pineapple, and 
dissolve thoroughly. Place it in a 
tin vessel and stand over cracked ice. 
stirring constantly. When it begins 
to thicken, add the whipped cream, 
and set away to harden, after turning 
into the mold. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

Lemon Bavarian Cream is made in 
the same manner. 



CofTee Bavarian Cream 

Crime BavaroUe au Cafi. 

1 Strong Cup of Cafd Noir. (See recipe). 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 
H Pint of Gelatine. 1 Cup of Sugar. 
% Cup of Water. 1 Pint of Whipped 

Cream. 
The Tolks of 4 Eggs. 

Soak the gelatine and whip the 
cream. After half an hour, pour it 
into the boiling coffee, and dissolve 
thoroughly. Then add the milk. Let 
it boil up once, and remove from the 
fire, and stir in the well beaten yolks 
of the eggs. Stir steadily and care- 
fully until all the ingredients have 
thoroughly blended. Then set it on 
the fire to thicken slightly, stirring 
all the time, but be careful not to 
let it boil, or the eggs will curdle. 
Then set aside to cool slightly; pour 
it into a basin, and set over cracked 
ice, and add the whipped cream as it 
thickens. Then turn into a mold, and 
set in a cool place to harden. Serve 
with whipped cream. 



THE PICAYUXS CKEOLE COOK BOOK 



267 



Chocolate BaTarlan Cream 

Crdme BavaroUe au Ohocolat. 

2 Largre Tablespoonfuls of Chocolate. 

1 Pint Milk. 1 Pint Cream. H Cup 

Sugrar. 

V^ Pint of Gelatine. 

Yolks of 4 Ens. 

1 Tablespoonful of vanilla. 

2 Ounces of Best French Chocolate. 

Prepare the grelatlne and cream ac- 
cording to general directions. (See 
recipe.) Grate the chocolate and set 
the milk to boil. Then add the grated 
chocolate, stirring slowly until all is 
dissolved. Take the saucepan from 
the fire, and add the sugar, mixing 
well, and the vanilla. Turn it into a 
tin vessel to cool; set the vessel over 
cracked ice, and stir constantly till 
it begins to thicken. Then stir the 
whipped cream in carefully, and pour 
the mixture into a mold, and set in a 
cool place to harden. Serve with 
whipped cream. 



Orange Bavarian Cream 

Crime Bavaroiae d VOrange. 

6 Ijouisiana Oranges. The Tolks of 6 

Eggs. 

1 Pint of Cream. 1 Pint of Milk. 

1 Cup of Sugar. H Box Gelatine, or V& 

Pint 

Whip the cream and prepare the 
gelatine according to general direc- 
tions. (See recipe Bavarian Cream.) 
Set the milk to boil, and when it be- 
gins to boil add the gelatine. Beat 
the yolks of the eggs very light, and 
add the sugar, beating very light; 
strain the milk and gelatine, and add 
the sugar and yolks, stirring constant- 
ly till well mixed. Set over the fire 
for two minujtes, and then put it away 
to cool. When cold, stir in the orange 
juice, which you must strain through 
a sieve. Set the basin in a pan of 
cracked ice, and stir until it begins 
to thicken, and then stir in the 
whipped cream very carefully, and 
at once to turn into a mold to harden. 



Always wet the mold first with cold 
water before turning in the cream. 
When cold, serve with whipped cream. 

Velvet Cream 

Ordne YelouHe, 

1 Pint of Cream. 1 Pint of Milk. 

6 Ounces of Sugar. 

Juice of 1 Lemon. 3 Tablespoonfuls 

Milk. 
yk Pint of Gelatine. 

Soak the gelatine in the water, and 
let it dissolve well. Set the milk to 
boil, and add the powdered sugar. 
Then dissolve the gelatine in it. Take 
off the fire, and add, as it cools, es- 
sence of vanilla or orange, using about 
two tablespoonfuls. Mix well. Then 
add the whipped cream, set over the 
fire one minute, pour into a mold to 
harden, and se*ve cold. 

SiNinlsh Cream 

Ortme a VEipagnoU. 



1 Quart of Milk. The Yolks of 5 Eggs. 

1 Cup of Sugar. ^ Pint of Gelatine. 

1 .Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 



Soak the gelatine and whip one pint 
of cream. Set the milk to boil, and 
add the gelatine, which you have dis- 
solved well in two tablespoonfuls of 
milk. Have the eggs and sugar beaten 
very light, and, as the milk boils up, 
add the sugar and eggs, but do not let 
them boil, or the eggs will curdle. 
Stir well, and turn the gelatine, which 
has been dissolved very well, into the 
milk. Then remove from the fire and 
strain, and add the essence of vanilla. 
Have the mold ready, clean and well 
rinsed, and turn the cream into it. 
Set it on ice to harden, and, when 
ready to serve, make a cream by 
whipping the whites of the eggs into 
the cream which has been whipped 
with powdered sugar. Turn the cream 
into a dish, heap this delicate me- 
ringue cream over it, and serve very 
cold. 



268 



THE PICAYUNE CR£OIiE COOK BOO! 



CHAPTER XXXVI 



PUDDIN 



SAUCES 



'^SQfiSS^ 



8auoe9 de Poudings. 



Apple Sauoe 

Bauce aum Pomme9. 

6 Apples. 1 Pint of Cold Water. 

% a Lemon. 

H Pound of Powdered White Suirar. 

A Teaspoonful of Oround Cinnamon. 

Peel and quarter and seed the 
apples, and put them Into a sauce- 
pan, with a pint of cold water and a 
half a lemon. Let them boil well 
for half an hour. Then press the 
cooked apples througrh a sieve into a 
bowl, and add the powdered sugar 
and the cinnamon. Set back on the 
stove and let the Juice boil for five 
minutes, and serve with apple pud- 
dings, baked apples, dumplings, etc. 

Apricot Sauce 

Bauoe d'AlniooU. 

4 Ounces of Apricot Marmalade. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

2 Gills of Water. 

Put four ounces of Apricot Mar- 
malade (see recipe) into a small sauce- 
pan; add the butter and w^ater, and 
set on a brisk fire; stir constantly un- 
til it comes to a boil. Let the mixture 
cook for two minutes more, and serve 
with baked apple dumplings, boiled 
dumplings, or apple pudding, as de- 
sired. 

Hard Sauce 

Sauce Dure. 

1 Cup of Powdered Sugar. % Cup of 

Butter. 

Flavoring. 

^ Teaspoonful of Ground Cinnamon. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream; add the flavoring and the pow- 
dered cinnamon and serve cold. 



Caramel Sauce 

Sauce au Caramel. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 1 Cup of Water. 

2 Ground Cloves. 1 Stick of Cinnamon. 

Grated Rind of ^ Lemon. 

Put the sugar in a saucepan and 
let it melt and brown to a golden 



yellow; add the water, any desired es- 
sence, and the spices, etc., and set to 
cool after it has boiled three minutes 



Cream Sauce 

Sauce d la Crime. 

1 Pint of Sweet Cream. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Powdered Sugar. 

1 Nutmeg, Grated. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

Add the sugar and essence to the 
cream; then stir constantly till thor- 
oughly dissolved. Beat vigorously, 
and then add the nutmeg and set to 
cool. Serve with stewed apples and 
other stewed fruits, or fruit puddings. 



' Cream of Butter Sauoe 

Sauoe d la Crdme de Beurre, 

% Cup of Butter. 

H Cup of Powdered White Sugar. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Milk or Cream. 

The Juice and Rind of a Lemon. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
thick cream, and add the milk or 
cream gradually. Then place the 
mixture in a bowl, and stand in a 
small tin of boiling water (bain- 
marie) and stir slowly till the sauce 
is very creamy, but do not allow it 
to sinimer or boil. It will take Just 
three or four minutes. As the thick 
cream forms, take from the fire, add 
the lemon and serve with any pud- 
ding. 

Oeam of Vanilla Sauoe 

Sauce d la Crime de VaMUe, 

1 Pint of Milk. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Powdered Wlilte 

Sugar. 

The Tolks of 3 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Essence. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the 
sugar well together, and add the va- 
nilla essence. Beat thoroughly. Boil 
the milk and add the beaten egg to 
the milk as it comes to a boil. Sttr 
briskly till it comes to a boil onoe 
more. 



the: picayune: greoiiE cook book 



269 



Custard SaiH» 

Sauce Duche$9e. 

1 Pint of Milk. 

% Cap of Powdered Susar. 8 BggB, 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

Set the milk to boil. Beat the eggs 
and sugar to a thick cream and very 
ligrht, and then stir them into the 
boilins: milk. Stir over the fire till 
the sauce begins to thicken, and no 
longer. If you stir too long the sauce 
will curdle. Take it from the fire 
and add the Vanilla and serve cold. 

Foaming Saaoe 

Sauce d la Neige. 

The Whites of 8 Eggs. 1 Cup of Sugar. 

1 Gill of Boiling Water. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth; melt the sugar in the boil- 
ing water. Stir in the frothy whites, 
and set to cool. 

Fmit Sauce 

Sauce aum FruiU. 
4 Peaches. Apples. Apricots or Pears. 
1 Cup Sugar. % Cup Water. 1 Pint of 

Cream. 

Whites of 2 Eggs. 

Flavoring. 

Pare the fruit; take out the stones 
or cores; slice and put in a sauce- 
pan with the water and sugar, and 
let it stew gently until very tender. 
Then press through a colander or 
sieve. Set the cream to boil, and 
then beat it into the fruit thoroughly. 
Take off the fire, add the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, set 
to cool, and serve with fruit puddings 
made of the same fruits. 

Golden Sauce 

Sauce d*Or. 

The Yolks of 2 Eggs. Juice of 1 Iiemon. 
1 Cup of Sugar. 

Beat the eggs and sugar until 
creamy. Set the saucepan in a ket- 
tle of boiling water over the fire; add 
the eggs that have been beaten well. 
Stir until the sauce becomes a thick 
cream; then take from the fire, add 
the Juice of a lemon and serve very 
hot. 

Hard Sauce 

Sauce d la Crime Durt. 

^ Cup of Butter. 

1 Cup of Powdered White Sugar. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream and gradually add the whites 



of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth; 
add the flavoring and heap on a small 
buttered dish, sprinkle with grated 
nutmeg, and serve cold. 



Hard Sauce, Creole Style 

Sance Cr^le. 

V4 Cup of Butter. 1 Cup of PowdereiJ 

Sugar. 

Beat the sugar and butter to a rich 
cream, add a teaspoonful of vanilla, 
and serve cold. This is a very ex- 
cellent sauce for baked dumplings, 
etc. 

Ijemon Sauce 

Sauce au Citron. 

1 Tablespoonful of Cornstarch. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Pint of Boiling Water. 

H Cup of Sugar. 

1 Egg. 

The Juice and Orated Rind of 

a Lemon. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream; add the well-beaten egg, and 
then add the cornstarch, which has 
been well dissolved in a teaspoonful 
of water. When well blended pour 
in slowly the boiling water, stirring 
all the time, and set over the fire 
till.it thickens; stir about three min- 
utes. Take from the fire and add the 
juice and rind of a grated lemon. 
This sauce is much improved by add- 
ing the white of an egg beaten to a 
stiff froth, after you have taken it 
from the fire. 



Orange Sauce 

Sauce d'Orange. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 2 Tablespoonfuls of 

Butter. 
^ Cup of Water. 
The Juice and Orated Hind of 2 
Oran fires 
2 Eggs. 1 Teaspoonful Grated Nut- 
meg. 

Beat the sugar, butter and yolks of 
the eggs to a cream. Then add the 
water and the Juice and grated rind 
of two oranges. Set to boil in a 
double boiler; take off the fire and 
add the whites of the eggs, beaten to 
a froth. Serve either hot or cold. 
If served cold, add the whites of the 
eggs at the moment of serving, as 
also the grated nutmeg. Serve with 
Orange Pudding, Orange Roly Poly, 
etc. 



270 



TH£ PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



Silvery Sauce 

Bauce Argentic, 
1 Cup of Sufirar. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 

The Whites of 2 Kggs, 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla or Lenaon. 

2 Cups of Milk. 

Beat the susrar and the butter to a 
cream. Set the milk to boll, and as 
it begrins to simmer add the sugar 
and butter. Let it simmer gently for 
a few minutes, and then take from 
the fire and add the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Add the 
essence, stirring till thoroughly mixed. 
Serve, either hot or cold, with any 
berry pudding. 

Strawberry Sanoe 

Sauce aua FraUeg. 

1 Cup of Cream. The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

1 Cup of Sugar. % Cup of Butter. 

1 Cup of Fresh Mashed Strawberries. 

Mash the strawberries, and press 
them through a sieve. Beat the but- 
ter and sugar to a cream; whip the 
cream and beat in the strawberries; 
then add tl^e berry juice and mix 
thoroughly. Serve with strawberry 
pudding, strawberry shortcake, or 
strawberry pie. It may also be served 
cold with a plain bread pudding. 
Blackberry Sauce may be made and 
served in the same way. 



Vanilla Sauce 

Sauoe a VButnce de VanUle, 
1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla. 4 Eggs. 
1 Pint of Milk. 2 Tablespoonfuls of 

Sugar. 
1 Teaspoon ful of Orated Nutmeg. 

Set the milk to boil, and beat tlie 

yolks of the eggs and the sugar very 

light; add to the boiling milk; stir 

for two minutes over the fire. Take 

off and add the vanilla and the whites 

of the eggs beaten to a froth; mix 

thoroughly, and serve either hot or 

cold. 

Velvet Sauoe 

Sauce Veloutie. 
IH Cups of Powdered Sugar. % Cup 

Butter. 

A Tablespoonful of Cornstarch. 

2 Cups of Boiling Water. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream, and blend the cornstarch with 
a little cold water to form a paste. 
Boil the water and add the cornstarch, 
stirring constantly as it thickens; con- 
tinue stirring till quite transparent 
Then add the butter and sugar, stir- 
ring well till perfectly blended, being 
careful to have the vessel containing 
the sauce in a bain-marie, or another 
vessel of boiling water. Add the Juice 
of a lemon or orange, or vanilla ex- 
tract, according to taste. Serve hot 
with any pudding. 



d 



1 



CHAPTER XXXVII 

CAKES 




De9 Gateaux 



The mixing and baking of cakes 
has always been held a very impor- 
tant branch of cookery. The baking 
Is the more difficult part, but good 
cake making depends quite as much 
upon the quality and quantity of the 
ingredients used, and the manner of 
putting them together. Attention to 
the most minute detail in mixing is 
required If you would succeed, as care- 
less mixing will spoil the very best 
recipe. The greatest accuracy must be 
followed in proportioning out the in- 
gredients, and using Just so much, and 
no more. Often more flour than the 
amount specified will cause the cake 



to crack. The cream, the butter, the 
eggs, must be of the best quality. A 
stale egg will spoil the best cake, as 
will rancid butter. No cake should be 
flavored with a poor, cheap extract. 
Care must be exercised in the choice 
of all the materials, care in the exact 
weight specified, care in the proper 
heat of the oven. The following 

General Directions for Makiag Cakes 

should be implicitly followed: 

A large earthen bowl is the best for 
mixing and beating the cakes and for 
beating butter and sugar to a cream. 



TH£ PICAY17X£ CREOLE COOK BOOK 



271 



as is required in making rich cakes, 
such as pound cakes, etc. 

Measure all ingredients carefully 
before beginning to make the cake, 
and have all at hand, within reach. 

The whites and the yolks of the 
eggs must always be beaten separate- 
ly for fancy cakes. 

Use the white pulverized sugar in 
preference to the white granulated 
for all cakes, except gingerbreads, as 
it makes a lighter cake. Sift the flour 
as often as the recipes specify and 
measure it again after sifting. 

If you use cream of tartar instead 
of baking powder, sift the cream of 
tartar into the flour, and dissolve the 
soda that must always go with it in 
a tablespoonful of boiling water, and 
always add it to the cake before you 
add the whites of the eggs. 

One-half teaspoonful of soda and 
one tablespoonful of cream of tartar 
may be used instead of one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder where the recipe 
calls for the latter. 

Raisins should always be picked 
over and seeded before using. 

In making fruit cake, prepare the 
fruit the day before. 

Currants should be picked over, 
washed and dried before using. 

Sift your flour before weighing. All 
the following recipes are for sifted 

flour. 

If you use cups for measurement let 
them be of the same size for all in- 
gredients for the same cake. 

Sour milk will make a spongy cake 
and sweet milk will make a cake 
with a close grain. 

Never mix sweet and sour milk in 
the same cake. Failure will be the 
result. 

Let the eggs be sound and fresh, 
and beat thoroughly till light. If you 
wish your cake to succeed. Do not 
rely entirely on the baking powder 
or the soda for the rising. The re- 
sult of such flimsy methods will be 
apparent in the cake. 

Rules for Mixing Ingredients 

Observe the following rules: 
Always beat the yolks and the 
'whites separately for large cakes. 
Beat the yolks till they begin to 
froth and thicken. Beat the whites 
to a froth so stiff that you can cut 
through it with a knife. 

Beat or stir the butter and sugar 



to a cream, rubbing both together 
steadily until they form a perfect 
cream. Then, and not till then, mix 
the yolks with the butter and sugar. 
Beat these together till very " light. 
Then add the milk, and mix thorough- 
ly. Sift the baking powder with the 
flour, and add a little at a time, stir- 
ring In well, till all Is used up. Then 
add the whites of the eggs, beating 
them in thoroughly, and lastly, add 
the flavoring extract 

Follow without the least variation, 
the exact order given above in the mix- 
ing of Ingredients. When the cake 
Is ready to bake, line the pan with a 
piece of buttered paper. This will 
prevent the cake from scorching. 
Then proceed to bake. 

Directions for Baking Cake. 

Have your oven ready. 

Test the temperature of the oven 
before putting the cake In It. 

If you have a Fahrenheit thermom- 
eter, let it be your guide as to the 
baking heat of the oven — 450 degrees 
Is the proper heat for drop cakes, 
rolls, buns, tea cakes, muffins, puff 
paste, etc. If you have not a ther- 
mometer another good test is to throw 
a little cornmeal or flour in the center 
of the oven. If the flour smokes be- 
fore you can count ten, the oven is 
too hot. If it smokes at ten, the oven 
has the proper heat for small cakes. 

As soon as these are baked the 
heat will be reduced to 400 degrees 
Fahrenheit, and then the oven Is 
ready to bake cream puffs, sugar 
cakes, queen cakes, jumbles, lady An- 
gers, jelly rolls, etc. ' When these 
cakes are baked the heat will be re- 
duced to 350 degrees Fahrenheit, and 
the oven will be just at the proper 
temperature to bake cup cakes, ginger 
snaps, gingerbread, spice cakes, etc. 

Moderate the temperature slightly, 
and the oven will be ready for the 
baking of large cakes, such as pound, 
citron, marble, white, raisin, currant, 
almond, macaroons, etc. And, after 
all these cakes are baked, you will 
have the proper temperature for wed- 
ding cake, meringue, aniseed cakes, 
etc. 

Thermometers are so cheap that It 
will pay the young housekeeper to 
have one in the house, rather than 
spoil Ingredients by not having the 
oven at the right baking heat. 



272 



THK PK'AYINE CREOLiK CX>OK BOOK 



It will be seen from the above that 
cakes made with butter will require 
a moderate oven; cakes without but- 
ter will require a quick oven. 

In baking: small cakes or cookies 
have a moderately quick oven. 

Bake Molasses cakes in a moder- 
ately quick oven, and watch care- 
fully, as they burn easily. 

A larsre cake will require -more time 
to bake than a loaf of bread of the 
same size. From an hour and a half 
to two hours will be sufficient for a 
pound cake. 

To ascertain If the cake is done, 
wash a stiff broom straw and run it 
Into the center of the cake. Then 
draw it out, feel it with your fingers, 
if it is clean and dry, the cake is done; 
if otherwise, the cake requires a little 
more baking. Never stick in any straw 
until you think that the cake Is done. 

A thick paper (brown paper is 
best) spread over the top of the cake 
after it begins to bake will prevent 
it from browning too much. If it 
begins to brown as soon as you put it 
into the oven, it is an indication that 
the oven is too hot. Cover the cake 
with paper, and cool the oven a little. 
But this is always risky. Try to have 
the oven of the right temperature. 

Never move a cake when you have 
once set it in the oven till the center 
is perfectly firm and set. If you do, 
it will fall. If one side seems to be 
browning faster than the other, have 
recourse to the brown paper on top. 

When you set the cake in the oven 
shut the door very gently and be 
careful not to jar the cake or it will 
be heavy. Do not open the door for 
about ten minutes, and then as little 
as possible, and very gently. If the 
cake Is browning too quickly, cover 
with a layer of thick paper. Watch 
the cake while baking, but never leave 
the oven door open. 

A cake should rise to its full height 
before the crust begins to form. If 
it hardens too fast, have recourse im- 
mediately to covering with paper. 

Keep the oven at a steady, regular 
heat, the same at the top as at the 
bottom. 

Never take the cake out of the 
oven until you are sure it is done. 
The broom splint, clean and dry, run 
through the center, is an infallible 
test. 

I^et the cake cool in the pan in 
which it was baked, as It is apt to 



become heavy if turned out while liot. 
Never handle the cake while hot. 

If the cake is streaky it shows tlia.t 
it was not mixed properly, or tbat 
the baking was rapid or unequal, or 
that the oven's temperature suddenly 
decreased before the cake was done. 

When the cake is cool if you wish 
to ice it, proceed as follow^s: 

How to Ice Cakes 

Take one pound of pulverized sugar 
and the whites of two eggs which have 
been in the refrigerator for about &n 
hour before using. Beat the egg^s 
and the sugar and a teaspoonful of 
rose or orange flower water or va- 
nilla essence together till the eggs 
are very light. In commencing to 
beat do not beat the whites separate- 
ly. Break them into a cold, shallow 
dish, and throw in a handful of sugar 
at a time, beating meanwhile, and 
adding at short intervals, till you 
have used up all the sugar. Or beat 
the whites and the sugar and essence 
together. When the mixture is stiff 
and smooth, begin to lay a thin coat- 
ing of icing over the cake, using 
a knife to spread it, and occasionally 
dipping the knife Into the lemon Juice, 
which will enable you to smooth it 
nicely. When it is covered with this 
first coat, set in a warm place to 
harden — or in a moderate oven, where 
you may let it remain about four 
minutes, or in the sunshine where 
there is no dust around. When it is 
hardened it will be ready for the next 
coat. Proceed as above. This coat 
will be much smoother and whiter 
than the first. Let the thickness of 
the icing always be such that it will 
run slowly. When the icing is well 
prepared this will give a smooth, 
glossy surface. Instead of the essence, 
the Juice of a lemon (one tablespoon- 
ful) may be added to the icing. If 
you wish to use ornaments, secure a 
piping tube, and place the ornaments 
around the cake while moist, running 
a plain tube around the edge of the 
cake, and then covering the cake with 
a thin icing level with the rim. Let 
it run smooth, and dry in the sun 
or in the oven. The sun Is always 
best, if you are not in a very great 
hurry. 

The above recipe is for plain icing. 
It may be varied according to taste 
by using pineapple, strawberry, or 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



273 



other flavoring. In using strawberry 
Icing, add a few drops of cochineal 
to color. For further particulars as 
to different Icings for cakes, see spe- 
cial section on "Icings and Frostlngs 
for Cakes." 

The Picayune Cake 

QAteau Picayune. 

1 Cup of Finely Sifted Flour. 

1 Cup of Fine White Sugar. Whites of 

9 Eggs. 
2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 
1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla Extract. 

1 Teaspoonful Lemon. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth, after which very little 
beating will be required. Add slowly 
a heaping cupful of fine white sugar, 
and one cup of flour, both of which 
have been sifted four times to reach 
this measurement. Then add one 
teaspoonful each of vanilla and lemon 
extract, and two teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder, just before t)utting Into 
the oven. Bake In a moderate oven 
for twenty-five minutes. 

Almond Cake 

OAteau dWrnandcf*. 
12 Esgs. 1 Pound of Sifted Loaf Sugar. 

% Pound of Sifted Flour. 
6 Ounces Sweet Almonds. Hind of 2 
Lemons. Rind of 1 Orange. % Teaspoon- 
ful Salt. 1 Tablespoonful of 
Orange Flower Water. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs and 
the whites separately, beating the lat- 
ter to a stiff froth. Blanch the al- 
monds, and peel them and pound 
them to a fine flour In a mortar. 
Grate the rind of the oranges and 
lemons carefully, and mix well. Beat 
the sugar and the yolks of the eggs 
to a cream, and gradually add one- 
half of the flour, beating well. Then 
add the almonds, mixing thoroughly, 
and, after beating vigorously, add one- 
half of the whites of the eggs. Beat 
well, add the remainder of the flour, 
and then add the remainder of the 
eggs. Finally add the orange flower 
wat«r. and mix lightly. Butter a 
paper, put It In a cake pan, and pour 
In the mixture, and bake for one hour 
In a moderate oven. 

Angel Cake 

OAteau fl'Ange. 

m, Cups of Granulated Sugar, Sifted. 

i Cup Sifted Flour. The Whites of 11 

Eggs. 1 Teaspoonful of Cream or 

Tartar. 1 Teaspoonful Vanilla. 

=14 Teaspoonful Salt. 

Sift the flour four times, and then 

put in the cream of tartar, mix well. 



and sift a fifth time. Sift the sugar 
four times. Have the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a very stiff froth, so 
stiff that they may be cut with a 
knife clearly. Then add the flour by 
degrees, beating all the time. Lastly, 
add the flavoring extract. Do not 
butter the pan for this cake, but turn 
the mixture quickly Into an ungreased 
Turk's head pan (a pan with a tube 
in the middle), and bake for three- 
quarters of an hour In a moderate 
oven. Test with a broom wisp. When 
done, turn the cake upside down, 
resting on the tube of the pan, and 
let It cool. The cake will fall out 
of the pan. 

Angel's Food 

Biscuit d'Ange. 

1% Cups of Sifted, Powdered White 

Sugar. 
1 Cup Sifted Flour. The Whites of 11 

Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 

1 Teaspoonful Vanilla. % Teaspoonful 

Salt. 

Put the baking powder and the 
salt (or use cream of tartar Instead 
of baking powder) Into the flour, and 
sift It seven times. If you use cream 
of tartar, add It In the last sifting. 
Sift the sugar seven times. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, 
and add gradually the sugar, mixing 
very carefully. Then add the flour, 
gradually beating all the while, and 
lastly add the flavoring extract. Pour 
the mixture into a Turk's head baking 
pan (ungreased). and bake for forty- 
flve minutes In a moderate oven. Test 
with a broom wisp. When done, turn 
the cake upside down, resting the pan 
on the tube till the cake falls off. 



Archangel Cake 

OAteau d'Archatif/e ou OAtcau dc 
I'Angc Oahriel 

1 Cup of Butter. 2 Cups of Sifted Flour. 
1 Cup of White Pulverized Sugar. 

The Whites of 8 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Lemon Extract, 

\i Teaspoonful of ^ Salt. 

Beat the whites of the eggrs to a 
stiff froth. Add the baking powder 
to the flour, and sift It three times. 
Sift the sugar three times. Beat the 
butter, which has been well-washed, 
to a cream with sugar. Then grad- 
ually add the flour, beating all the 
while, and the flavoring extract. 
Lastly, add the whites, which must 
be very stiff. Mix all thoroughly, and 
bake for about half an hour In a mod- 



274 



THE PICAYUNE GREOIiE COOK BOOK 



erately quick oven. Use a Turk's 
head tin. (Follow directions for 
baking cake.) 



wisp. If not done througrh cook 
longer, watching carefully, and using 
the test till the straw is dry. 



Banana Meringue Cake 

OAteau de Bananes Meringui. 

9 Eggs. 

1 Pound of White Pulverized 

Sugar. »/4 Pound Flour. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

3 Bananas. 1 Cup of Creq,m Sauce. 

.Whites of 3 Eggs. 

Make a Sponge Take; and slice it 
across into two parts; slice bananas 
lengthwise very nicely, put them on 
the bottom layer of cake, sprinkle with 
powdered sugar, and then spread 
over all a little Cream Sauce, 
which you will have made to the con- 
sistency of Cream Puff filling. Put 
over this the second layer of cake, 
and then repeat the process of spread- 
ing the bananas and cream on the 
layer. Make a meringue with the 
whites of three eggs and three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and spread this 
over the whole. Set In a quick oven 
bake to a nice, delicate brown, and 
serve, either hot or cold, with a 
sauce. 

Black Cake 

Gdteau yoir. 

1 Pound of Brown Sugar. 1 Pound of 

Butter. 
1 Pound of Flour. 2 Pounds 

Currants. 

2 Pounds of Seeded Raisins. 

% Pound of Citron. Cut Very Thin. 

^^ Pound of Chipped Figs. 

1 Glass of Jelly. 

1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice. 

1 Pound Almonds, Blanched and 

Chopped. 12 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Extract of Cinnamon. 

1 Teaspoonful Cloves. 2 Teaspoonfuls 

Nutmeg. 

• Wash and cleanse the currants 
thoroughly. Seed the raisins. Beat 
the butter and sugar to a cream. Then 
add the yolks of the eggs, well beaten. 
Add one-half of the flour and the 
spices. Mix all of the fruit in the 
remaining flour, having first sliced the 
citron very thin, and add to the mix- 
ture. Then add the jelly, which 
should be homemade and of the best 
quality. Otherwise, add one cup of 
the best Louisiana molasses. Mix 
thoroughly and put in it the table- 
spoon of lemon juice. Add the whites 
of the eggs last. Divide Into two tins, 
which must be lined with well- 
greased paper. Bake for four hours 
in a slow oven. Test with the broom 



Bnttermllk Cake 

Odteau au Babeurre. 

2 Cups of Buttermilk. 3 Cups of Sugar. 

6 Cups of Flour. 1 Cup of Butter. 4 

Eggs. H Teaspoonful of Soda. 

Beat the butter to a cream, and 
then add the sugar, which has been 
sifted fine. Beat to a cream. Add 
the yolks of the eggs and continue 
beating till very light. Mash the 
soda in the buttermilk, dissolving 
thoroughly, first in a half cupful, and 
then mixing well with the remainder 
of the milk. Add this to the eggs 
and butter. Then gradually add the 
sifted flour, and beat till very smooth. 
Lastly add the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Bake for 
forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 



Bride's Cake 

Odteau d*£pou8^e 

3 Cups of White Pulverized Sugar. 

1 Cup of Butter. 4 Cups of Sifted Flour. 

% Cup of Cornstarch. 

The Whites of 12 Eggs. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

1 Cup of Sweet Milk, 
1 Teaspoonful of Extract of Lemon. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth. Sift the flour and baking 
powder. Sift the sugar. Beat the 
butter and sugar to a cream. Beat 
till very light. Mix the cornstarch 
with the sweet milk and add to the 
sugar and butter, beating well. Then 
add gradually the flour, mixing thor- 
oughly, and beatfng light. Add the 
extract of lemon, and finally the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Bake one hour in a moderate 
oven, using the broom wisp test If 
not done, bake a little longer. 



Chocolate Ijoaf Cake 

Odteau au Chocolat. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 1 Tablespoon ful of 

Butter. 1% Cups of Sifted Flour. 

% Cup of Milk. Yolks of 8 Eggs. 

White of 1 Egg. 

% Cake of Grated Chocolate. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

Dissolve the chocolate in the cup 
of milk, and boll till thick. Beat the 
butter to a cream, and gradually add 
the sugar^ beating constantly. Then 
add the yolks of the eggs, and beat 
till very light. Sift the fiour, and add 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



275 



the baking powder, and sift asraln. 
Then add the flour gradually to the 
mixture, beating all the while. Now 
add the chocolate, and beat very 
vigorously. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the 
mixture. Then add the essence, beat- 
ing lightly again, and turn Into a 
greased pan and bake in a moderate 
oven for three-quarters of an hour 
5r an hour. 



Chocolate Cake, Creole Style 

QAteau au Chovolat A la Cr6ole. 

1% Cups of Flour. 

1% Cups of Sugar. 

^ Cup of Butter. 4 Eggs. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Grated Chocolate,'or 

2 Ounces. 
% Cup of Milk. 1 Teaspoonful of Va- 
nilla. 1 Heaping Teaspoonful of Bak- 
ing Powder. 

Beat the butter to a cream, and 
gradually add the sugar, beating con- 
stantly. When very light, add the 
yolks of the eggs, and beat till these 
are very light. Then add the milk 
and the chocolate, which has been 
well dissolved in four tablespoonfuls 
of boiling water. Mix thoroughly, 
and add by degrees the flour, beating 
all the while. Give a very vigorous 
beating and add the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Stir 
them very carefully into the batter, 
and add the vanilla, and flnally the 
baking powder. Mix all very quickly 
and lightly, and set to bake in but- 
tered pans in a moderate oven for 
three-quarters of an hour. 



Citron Cake 

Odteau au C6drat. 

1 Quart of Flour. 1 Cup of Butter. 

2 Cups of Sugar. 

12 Eggs. 

1% Cups of Cream. 

1 Cup of Chopped Citron. 

1 Teaspoonful of Almond Extract. 

Beat the butter to a cream. Add 
the sugar, and beat till very light. 
Then add the yolks of the eggs« and 
beat till very light. Add the cream, 
and mix thoroughly, and then add 
by degrees the citron, mixing thor- 
oughly. Now, by degrees, add the 
flour, well-sifted. Beat well. Lastly 
add whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth. Mix all quickly and light- 
ly; add the almond extract, mix light- 
ly, and then set to bake in a buttered 
pan in a moderate oven for one hour. 



Clove Cake 

Odteau de Chirofles. 

1 Teaspoonful of Ground Cloves. 
1 Cup of Sugar. 1 Cup of Sour Cream 

1 Egg. % Cup of Flour. 
1 Teaspoonful of Soda. A Pinch of Salt. 

Beat the sugar and the yolk of the 
egg to a cream. Add the cream and 
soda blended. Mix thoroughly. Then 
add the cloves, and mix well. Sift 
the flour and salt together, and add 
gradually, beating all the while. Give 
several vigorous beats, and set to 
bake in a buttered tin in a moderate 
oven for forty-flve minutes. 



Cocoanut Loaf Cake 

OAteau au Coco. 

M Pound of Butter. 2 Cups Grated 

Cocoanut. 

5 Eggs. 1 Cup of Milk. 

% Cup Butter, hi Pound of Flour. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

The Juice and Grated Hind of 1 Lemon. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
rich cream. Add the yolks of tjie 
eggs and beat till very light. Then 
add the milk, and the flour by de- 
grees, beating all the while, and then 
add the lemon. Beat well. Add the 
cocoanut, and stir in carefully and 
well. Sift the baking powder over 
the whites of the eggs, which have 
been well beaten to a stift froth, and 
add these, beating lightly and thor- 
oughly. Have ready two loaf pans, 
and line them with very thin buttered 
paper. Now divide the batter into two 
even parts, filling each pan about 
three-quarters full. Set in a moderate 
oven, and bake for forty-flve minutes. 
When done, cover the top with flnely- 
grated cocoanut, and sift powdered 
sugar over it. Set it to cool. 



Coffee Cake 

OAteau de CaJ^. 

1 Cup of Caf§ Nolr (Black Coffee). 

4 Eggs. 4 Cups of Flour. 

1 Cup of Butter. 1 Cup of Molasses. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 1 Cup of Seeded Raisins. 

1 Cup of Currants, Washed and Dried. 

1 Grated Nutmeg. 

\i Teaspoonful of Ground Cinnamon. 

H Teaspoonful of Cloves. 

H Teaspoonful of Soda, Dissolved in 

Warm Water. 

Wash and cream the butter. Add 
the sugar and beat till very light. 
Then add the yolks of the eggs. Beat 
them into the butter and sugar till 
very light. Add the molasses, and 
mix thoroughly. Then take the seed- 



274 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



erately quick oven. Use a Turk's 
head tin. (Follow directions for 
baking cake.) 



wisp. If not done through cooR 
longer, watching carefully, and ufelns^ 
the test till the straw Is dry. 



Banana Meringue Cake 

Odteau de Bananes Meringui. 

9 Eggs. 

1 Pound of White Pulverised 

Sugar. Vi Pound Flour. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

3 Bananas. 1 Cup of Cream Sauce. 

.Whites of 3 Eggs. 

Make a Sponge Take; and slice it 
across into two parts; slice bananas 
lengthwise very nicely, put them on 
the bottom layer of cake, sprinkle with 
powdered sugar, and then spread 
over all a little Cream Sauce, 
which you will have made to the con- 
sistency of Cream Puff filling. Put 
over this the second layer of cako, 
and then repeat the process of spread- 
ing the bananas and cream on tho 
layer. Make a meringue with the 
whites of three eggs and three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and spread this 
' over the whole. Set in a quick oven 
bake to a nice, delicate brown, and 
serve, either hot or cold, with a 
sauce. 

Black Cake 

Odteau Noir. 

1 Pound of Brown Sugar. 1 Pound of 

Butter. 
1 Pound of Flour. 2 Pounds 

Currants. 

2 Pounds of Seeded Raisins. 

H Pound of Citron. Cut Very Thin. 

\i Pound of Chipped Figs. 

1 Glass of Jelly. 

1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice. 

1 Pound Almonds, Blanched and 

Chopped. 12 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Extract of Cinnamon. 

1 Teaspoonful Cloves. 2 Teaspoonfuls 

Nutmeg. 

' Wash and cleanse the currants 
thoroughly. Seed the raisins. Beat 
the butter and sugar to a cream. Then 
add the yolks of the ecgs, well beaten. 
Add one-half of the flour and the 
spices. Mix all of the fruit in the 
remaining flour, having first sliced the 
citron very thin, and add to the mix- 
ture. Then add the Jelly, which 
should be homemade and of the best 
quality. Otherwise, add one cup of 
the best I^ouisiana molasses. Mix 
thoroughly and put In it the table- 
spoon of lemon juice. Add the whites 
of the eggs last. Divide into two tins, 
which must be lined with well- 
greased paper. Bake for four hours 
in a Blow oven. Test with the broom 



Battermllk Cake 

Odteau au Baheurrc. 

2 Cups of Buttermilk. 3 Cups of Sugar. 

6 Cups of Flour. 1 Cup of Butter. 4 

Eggs. H Teaspoonful of Soda. 

Beat the butter to a cream, and 
then add the sugar, which has been 
sifted fine. Beat to a cream. Add 
the yolks of the eggs and continue 
beating till very light. Mash the 
soda in the buttermilk, dissolving^ 
thoroughly, first in a half cupful, and 
then mixing well with the remainder 
of the milk. Add this to the eggs 
and butter. Then gradually add the 
sifted fiour, and beat till very smooth. 
Lastly add the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Bake for 
forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 



Bride's Cake 

Odteau d*£pou8ie 

3 Cups of White Pulverised Sugar. 

1 Cup of Butter. 4 Cups of Sifted Flour. 

% Cup of Cornstarch. 

The Whites of 12 Eggs. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

1 Cup of 9weet Milk. 
1 Teaspoonful of Extract of Lemon. 

Beat the whites of the eggrs to a 
stifT froth. Sift the flour and baking 
powder. Sift the sugar. Beat the 
butter and sugar to a cream. Beat 
till very light. Mix the cornstarch 
with the sweet milk and add to the 
sugar and butter, beating well. Then 
add gradually the flour, mixing thor- 
oughly, and beatfng light. Add the 
extract of lemon, and finally the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Bake one hour in a moderate 
oven, using the broom wisp test If 
not done, bake a little longer. 



Chocolate Ijoaf Cake 

Odteau au CKocolat. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 1 Tablespoonful of 

Butter. 1V4 Cups of Sifted Flour. 

\ Cup of Milk. Yolks of 8 Eggs. 

White of 1 Egg. 

% Cake of Grated Chocolate. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

Dissolve the chocolate in the cup 
of milk, and boll till thick. Beat the 
butter to a cream, and gradually add 
the sugar, beating constantly. Then 
add the yolks of the eggs, and beat 
till very light. Sift the flour, and add 






THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



275 



the baking powder, and sift again. 
Then add the flour gradually to the 
mixture, beating all the while. Now 
add the chocolate, and beat very 
vigorously. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the 
mixture. Then add the essence, beat- 
ing lightly again, and turn into a 
greased pan and bake in a moderate 
oven for three-quarters of an hour 
or an hour. 



Chocolate Cake, Creole Style 

Odteau au Chocolat d la Crdole. 

1% Cups of Flour. 

1% Cups of Sugar. 

% Cup of Butter. 4 Eggs. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Grated Chocolate, or 

2 Ounces. 
H Cup of Milk. 1 Teaspoonf ul of Va- 
nilla, 1 Heaping Teaspoonful of Bak- 
ing Powder. 

Beat the butter to a cream, and 
gradually add the sugar, beating con- 
stantly. When very light, add the 
yolks of the eggs, and beat till these 
are very light. Then add the milk 
and the chocolate, which has been 
well dissolved in four tablespoonfuls 
of boiling water. Mix thoroughly, 
and add by degrees the flour, beating 
all the while. Give a very vigorous 
beating and add the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Stir 
them very carefully into the batter, 
and add the vanilla, and finally the 
baking powder. Mix all very quickly 
and lightly, and set to bake in but- 
tered pans in a moderate oven for 
three-quarters of an hour. 



Citron Cake 

Odteau au CMrat. 

1 Quart of Flour. 1 Cup of Butter. 

2 Cups of Sugar. 

12 Eggs. 

1% Cups of Cream. 

1 Cup of Chopped Citron. 

1 Teaspoonful of Almond Extract. 

Beat the butter to a cream. Add 
the sugar, and beat till very light. 
Then add the yolks of the eggs^ and 
beat till very light. Add the cream, 
and mix thoroughly, and then add 
by degrees the citron, mixing thor- 
oughly. Now, by degrees, add the 
flour, well-sifted. Beat well. Lastly 
add whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth. Mix all quickly and light- 
ly; add the almond extract, mix light- 
ly, and then set to bake in a buttered 
pan in a moderate oven for one hour. 



Clo*x Cake 

QAteau de CHrofles. 

1 Teaspoonful of Ground Cloves. 
1 Cup of Sugar. 1 Cup of Sour Cream 

1 Egg. % Cup of Flour. 
1 Teaspoonful of Soda. A Pinch of Salt. 

Beat the sugar and the yolk of the 
egg to a cream. Add the cream and 
soda blended. Mix thoroughly. Then 
add the cloves, and mix well. Sift 
the flour and salt together, and add 
gradually, beating all the while. Give 
several vigorous beats, and set to 
bake in a buttered tin In a moderate 
oven for forty-five minutes. 



Cocoanut Loaf Cake 

Gdteau au Coco. 

M Pound of Butter. 2 Cups Grated 

Cocoanut. 

5 Eggs. 1 Cup of Milk. 

% Cup Butter. % Pound of Flour. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

The Juice and Grated iiind of 1 L.emon. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
rich cream. Add the yolks of tjie 
eggs and beat till very light. Then 
add the milk, and the flour by de- 
grees, beating all the while, and then 
add the lemon. Beat well. Add the 
cocoanut, and stir in carefully and 
well. Sift the baking powder over 
the whites of the eggs, which have 
been well beaten to a stiff froth, and 
add these, beating lightly and thor- 
oughly. Have ready two loaf pans, 
and line them with very thin buttered 
paper. Now divide the batter into two 
even parts, filling each pan about 
three-quarters full. Set in a moderate 
oven, and bake for forty-five minutes. 
When done, cover the top with finely- 
grated cocoanut, and sift powdered 
sugar over it. Set it to cool. 



Coffee Cake 

Odteau de Caf^. 

1 Cup of Cafe Noir (Black CofCee). 

4 Eggs. 4 Cups of Flour. 

1 Cup of Butter. 1 Cup of Molasses. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 1 Cup of Seeded Raisins. 

1 Cup of Currants, Washed and Dried. 

1 Grated Nutmeg. 

% Teaspoonful of Ground Cinnamon. 

% Teaspoonful of Cloves. 

% Teaspoonful of Soda, Dissolved in 

Warm Water. 

Wash and cream the butter. Add 
the sugar and beat till very light. 
Then add the yolks of the eggs. Beat 
them into the butter and sugar till 
very light. Add the molasses, and 
mix thoroughly. Then take the seed- 



276 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



ed currants and raisins and blend 
them with one-half of the flour and 
add gradually. Now. add by degrees 
the remainder of the flour, beating 
vigorously. Then add the coffee, and 
mix well. Add the soda, dissolved 
in hot water. Add the spices, mix 
well, and Anally add the whites of 
the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Mix 
thoroughly but lightly, divide into 
two parts, set in two greased paper- 
lined tins, and bake from forty-five 
minutes to one hour in a moderate 
oven. 

Caramel Cake 

G At van au Caramel. 
1 Cup of Butter. 2 Cups of Sugar. 

1 Cup of Milk. 1% Cups of Flour. 

Sifted. 

1 Cup of Cornstarch. 

Whites of 7 Sggs. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

("ream the butter, add the sugrar, 
and beat till very light. Then add 
the milk. Mix well. Sift the flour, 
cornstarch and baking powder to- 
gether, and add gradually to the mix- 
ture, beating vigorously all the while. 
Then add the vanilla and the whites 
of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Mix all quickly and lightly, turn into 
a long pan, and bake for about half 
an hour in a moderate oven. Apply 
the broom wisp test. When done, 
take out of the oven and set to cool. 
When cool, take 

2 Cups of Brown Sugar. 
1 Cup Sweet Cream. 2 Teaspoontuls 

Vanilla. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Boil all together till it sugars, then 
spread over the top and sides. 

Or, if you wish something much 
nicer, make the following mixture: 

1 cup brown sugar, % pound choc- 
olate, ^/6 cup milk, 1 tablespoonful 
butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of vanilla. 

Grate the chocolate, and set all to 
boiling together until thick enough 
to spread over the top and sides of 
the cake. 

Cup Cake 

Odtcau Savoic. 

1 Cup of Butter. 2 Cups of Sugar. 

3 Cups of Flour. 4 Eggs. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

1 Teaspoonful of Lemon or Rose Ex- 
tract. 

Beat the butter to a cream. Add 
the sugar gradually, beating all the 
while. Then beat the yolks until 
they are very light, and add to the . 
mixture. Add the milk. Mix well, 



and add half of the flour, which has 
been well sifted with the baking pow- 
der. Then add the well-beaten, 
whites of the eggs, and the remainder 
of the flour, and the extract of Lemon 
or Rose. Finally add the baking 
powder, mix quickly and lightly, turn 
into a Turk's head pan, which has 
been well lined with greased paper. 
and bake for forty-five minutes in a 
moderate oven. 

One, Two, Three, Four Cup Cake 

Vn, Deux, Tnti; Quatre 

I Cup of Butter. 2 Cups of Sugar. 
3 Cups of Flour. 4 Eggs. 

Beat the butter to a cream. Add 
the sugar. Beat till very light. Beat 
the eggs (yolks and whites together) 
till very light, and add them grad- 
ually to the butter and the sugar, 
beating all the while. Beat vigor- 
ously. Add the sifted flour, and beat 
thoroughly until very light. Then 
line a round cake pan with the but- 
tered paper, and fill with the mix- 
ture. Set in a moderate oven, and 
bake for one hour and a quarter. 

Cake Without Eggs. 

QOteau Sans Oeufs. 

2 Cups of Sifted Flour. 1 Cup of Milk. 
1 \ Cups of Sugar. 2 Tablespoonfuls 

Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful Baking Powder. 

% Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Teaspoonful of Lemon Extract. 

Beat the sugar and the butter to a 
cream, and then add the milk, stirring 
carefully. Add the flour, and beat 
well and hard. Then add the salt. 
flavoring extract and baking powder. 
Mix all thoroughly, and bake in a 
moderate oven for a half hour. 



Delicate Cake 

Gdteau D€licat. 

1% Cups of Flour. 1% Cups of Sugar. 
H Cup of Cornstarch, Sifted With 

the Flour. 

% Cup of Butter. % Cup of Milk. 

Whites of 6 Eggs. 

2 Teaspoonfuls Baking Powder. 

% Teaspoonful of Extract of Lemon. 

% Teaspoonful Salt. 

Cream the butter and beat it with 
the sugar till foamy. Add the milk. 
and stir carefully. Then add grad- 
ually the flour, Into which has been 
sifted the salt and the cornstarch, 
and mix thoroughly. Then add the 
flavoring extract, and, lastly, the 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



277 



whites of the eggrs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Sift the bakiner powder over 
the whites. Mix quickly and lightly 
with the batter and bake forty-five 
minutes in a moderate oven. 



grated nutmeg, and bake for an hour 
in a moderate oven. Bake slowly, 
and use the broom wisp test. If not 
done, bake longer, till the straw comes 
out clean and dry. 



Dried Fruit Cake. 

GAtroH (le FruiU Sees. 

3 Cups of Dried Apples, Peaches or Any 

Kind of Dried Fruits. 

2 Cups of Louisiana Molasses. 

1 Cup of Milk. 2 Eggs. % Cup of 

Butter. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Ground Cinnamon. 

Vi Teaspoonful Each of Ground Cloves 

and Mace. 

% Pound of Stoned Raisins. 

% Grated Nutmeg. % Teaspoonful Salt. 

The Juice of a Lemon. 

1^ Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder or 

1 Teaspoonful of Soda. 

Soak the fruit over night. Then 
chop very fine, and simmer in a sauce- 
pan with the molasses for two hours 
and a half. Let it cool. Seed the 
raisins. Beat the butter and sugar 
to a cream, until very light. Add the 
yolks of the eggs, and beat till light. 
Now add the milk and then the fruit 
and molasses, stirring carefully. Beat 
hard for five minutes. Now add the 
flour, which has been well sifted with 
the baking powder, and beat vigor- 
ously for five minutes. If you uso 
soda, dissolve It at this point with a 
tablespoonful of boiling water, and 
add, mixing well. Then add the 
raisins, and beat vigorously, and the 
spices and salt. Add the Juice of the 
lemon, and finally the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff frotli. The 
batter must be stiff, but of sufiiclent 
elasticity to drop from the spoon. 
Bake In a moderate oven for two 
hours. Use a broom wisp test; If 
It comes out clean and dry, then the 
cake is done. 

Fig Cake 

OAtcau dc Figttea. 

1 Cup Butter. 2 Cups Sugar. 1 Cup Milk. 

3 Cups of Seeded Raisins. 
1 Pound of Figs, Chopped Very Fine. 
1 Egg. 2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Pow- 
der. 
3 Cups of Flour. 
% Teaspoonful of Salt. M Grated 
Nutmeg. 

Beat the butter to a cream and add 
the sugar. Then beat very light, and 
add the egg. Beat well and add the 
milk; carefully and gradually add the 
flour, into which you have sifted the 
baking powder. Add the raisins and 
the figs, and beat thoroughly; add the 



Fruit Cake 

QAteau de Fruita. 

V^ Pound of Grated Lemon and Orange 

Peel Mixed. 

% Pound Raisins. 

Va Pound of Preserved Cherries. 

% Pounds of Sultanas. 

'^ Pound of Preserved Pigs. 

% Pound of Citron. 

'4 Pound of Preserved Apricots. 

% Pound of Sifted Flour. 

% Pound of Preserved Pineapple. 

% Pound of Butter. 

% Pound of Mashed Almonds. 

1 Grated Nutmeg. 

% Pound of White Pulverized Sugar. 

^ Tablespoonful of Mace. 
8 Eggs. % Tablespoonful Ground Cin- 
namon. 
The Juice of 2 Oranges. 
1-8 Tablespoonful of Cloves. 
The Juice of 1 Lemon. 
1-8 Tablespoonful Ground Allspice. 
2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 
^ Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Prepare the fruit first. Stone the 
raisins, picking carefully. Pick over 
the Sultanas carefully, and wash them 
well. Then cut the orange and 
lemon rind very fine, almost grating, 
(^ut the citron very, very fine. Cut 
all the remaining fruit into quarter- 
inch dice, or very small pieces. You 
may use the candled fruit, but the 
preserved Is recommended as better 
and lighter and more digestible. Beat 
the butter to a rich cream, and then 
add the sugar, and beat all till very 
light. Be^t the yolks and the whites 
of the eggs together and then add 
them to the sugar and butter, and 
then beat again light. Sift the salt 
and baking powder and fiour togeth- 
er, and gradually add it to the mix- 
ture, beating vigorously till light. 
Then mix all the fruits together, 
dredging with flour, so as to keep 
them apart, and then add the spices 
to the batter. Mix well, and add th'a 
fruit. Mix thoroughly. Beat all to- 
gether ell once more, and then line 
a cake pan with buttered paper, and 
turn the mixture Into It, and bake in 
a very slow, steady oven for four and 
a half hours. T^se the broom wisp 
test. When It comes out clean and 
dry the cake Is done. Then let It 
stand over night in the pan to cool. 
In the morning take it out and re- 
move the paper. 



278 



THE picayune: Creole: cook book 



Plain Fmit Cake 

OAtcau de Fruits Sans Fagon. 

1 Pound of Brown Sugrar. 1 Pound of 

Butter. 
10 Eg:^8. 2 Pounds of Seeded Raisins. 

2 Pounds of Currants. 1 Pound of Citron. 

V4 Pound of Almonds. 1 Nutmeg. 
1 Teaspoonful Each of Ground Allspice 

and Cinnamon. 

14 Teaspoonful Each of Ground Mace 

and Cloves. 

% Pound of Sifted Flour. 

The Kind Each of an Orange and 

Lemon. 

^ Teaspoonful of Salt. 

The Juice of 2 Oranges and 1 I«emon. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

Prepare the fruit by seeding the rais- 
ins, washing and drying the currants, 
cutting the citron into shreds and dice 
and mashing the almonds. Beat the 
butter and sugar to a cream and add 
the eggs, which you must first beat 
till very light, without separating 
whites and yolks. Beat these into the 
sugar and butter till very light, and 
then add the flour gradually and the 
.spices. Sift the flour with the bak- 
ing powder and salt, and then mix 
the fruit with it before adding to the 
cake. Beat vigorously. Then add the 
grated rind of the orange and lemon, 
and the juices of both. Stir well. 
Divide the batter into two pans, which 
have been well lined with greased 
paper, and bake in a steadily moder- 
ate oven for four hours. T7se the 
broom wisp test, and If it comes out 
clean and dry the cake is done. If 
not, let the cake bake from a quarter 
to a half hour longer, watching care- 
fully. This will make a nine-pound 
cake, or two four-and-a-half-pound 
cakes. When done, put the cake into 
an earthenware bowl, with a flat 
bottom. 

Ginger Cake 

Odtcau au Oingcmhrv. 
3 Cups of Flour. 2 Eggs. 
% Cup of Milk or Sour Cream. 
1 Teaspoonful of Soda or Baking Pow- 
der. 
% Cup of Butter or Lard. 
1 Tablespoonful of Ground Ginger, or 1 
Tablespoonful Each of Ground Cin- 
namon and Ginger. 
1% Cups of Louisiana Molasses. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs to a 
cream and then add the melted but- 
ter, beating till very light. Sift the 
baking powder and the flour together, 
and add the ginger, mixing well: then 
add the milk and the molasses to the 
butt'^r and eggs, mixing thoroughly. 
When well blended, add the flour and 
ginger and baking powder (mixed), 



and beat vigorously. Finally add tlie 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth, turn into a well-greased tin, 
and bake in a moderate oven for 
forty-flve minutes. Use the broom 
wisp test before taking the cake out 
of the oven. 

Ginger Bread 

Pain d'£pice8 

^ Pound of Butter. % Pound of Sugar. 

3 Pints of Flour. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Ground Ginger. 

1 Teaspoonful of Ground Cinnamon. 

1 Pint of Sweet Milk or Sour Cream. 

1 Teaspoonful of Soda or Baking Pow* 

der. 
1 Pint of Louisiana Molasses. 

Beat the butter to a cream, and 
then add the sugar. Beat till very 
light, and then beat the yolks of the 
eggs till creamy and add to the but- 
ter and sugar. Beat very light. Now 
add the molasses and stir well, mix- 
ing thoroughly; then add the milk 
and mix well into the flour, with 
which has been well sifted the baking 
powder, and beat till very smooth. 
Then add the ground ginger and cin- 
namon; mix well; and finally add the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiiT 
froth; mix well and pour into two 
well-greased, shallow tins. Bake in 
a moderate oven for forty minutes, 
using the broom wisp test before tak- 
inj out of the oven. Sprinkle with 
white sugar and sefve, either hot or 
cold. If soda is used, dissolve it in a 
tablespoonful of boiling water and 
add to the molasses; then add to the 
butter and sugar before adding the 
flour and milk. Some beat the whites 
and yolks together; but the bread is 
much lighter and more delicate when 
the whites and yolks are beaten sep- 
arately. 

Stage Planks, or Gingerbread With* 
out Butter or Eggs 

Eatomac Muldtrc 

1 Cup of Molasses. 1 Cup of Sour Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Ground Ginger. 

1 Gill of Lard. 3 Cups of Flour. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Soda. 

Melt the molasses, lard and ginger 
together and blend well. When thor- 
oughly melted and warmed, beat for 
about ten minutes. Then dissolve 
the soda in a tablespoonful of boiling 
water and add to the molasses; mix 
it thoroughly, and then add the flour, 
using good Judgment and adding Just 
enough of the three cups of sifted 
flour to make a stiff batter; beat thor> 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



279 



ougrhly and vigorously. Have ready 
several greased shallow pans; pour 
the mixture into them and bake for 
ten minutes In a quick oven. 



French-Creole Cake 

Odteau Francai$-Cr4ole. 

1 Pound of Sifted Sugrar (White Pulver- 
ized). 
The Grated Peel of 1 Lemon. 
1 Tablespoonful of Orange Flower 

Water. 

12 Eggs. % Pound of Sifted Flour. 

% Pound of Mashed Rice (Dried). 

1 Tablespoonful of Baking Powder. 

4 Ounces Sweet Almonds. 

1 Ounce of Bitter Almonds. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth, after having blanched and 
peeled the almonds and pounded 
them to a fine powder in a mortar. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs very light, 
and gradually add the rice, which has 
been well mashed. Mix the almonds 
thoroughly with the flour; then add 
these gradually to the sugar, beating 
vigorously. Add the grated rind of 
the lemon and the essence, and Anally 
add the whites of the eggs and mix 
lightly and quickly. Line the bottom 
and sides of the pan with well buttered 
paper, and bake the cake in a moder- 
ate oven for one hour. 



Fruit Gfaigerhread 

Pain d'SpiccB aux FruiU 

\ Pound of Flour. H Pound of Butter. 

^ Pound of Sugar. 

1 Cup of Louisiana Molasses. 

% Pound of Raisins. 

H Pound of Currants, washed and 

Dried. 
% Cup of Sour Cream. 3 ISggs. 
1 Teaspoonful of Soda or Baking Pow- 
der (Level). 
1 Teaspoonful of Ground Ginger. 
V4 Teaspoonful Each of Ground Cinna- 
mon and Cloves. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream, and warm the molasses and 
beat with the sugar and butter. Then 
add the well-beaten yolks of the eggs, 
and the milk and spices and ginger, 
mixing thoroughly. Add the soda, 
dissolved in a tablespoonful of boil— 
ing water; mix well, and mix the 
seeded raisins and currants well; then 
add the flour by degrees, beating vig- 
orously. Finally add the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and 
beat thoroughly. Put In two shallow 
pans in the oven for about two hours. 
The broom wisp test must be used be- 
fore taking the cake out of the oven. 



Gold Cake 

Odteau d'Or. 

IH Cups of Sugar. 1 Cup of Milk. 

% Cup of Butter. 

3 Cups of Flour. The Yolks of 6 Eggs. 

2 Teaspoonf uls of Baking Powder. 

Beat the butter to a cream; add the 
sugar and beat till very light. Then 
add the well- beaten yolks of the eggs; 
beat vigorously till light, and grad- 
ually add the flour, into which has 
been well sifted the baking powder. 
Bake for forty-five minutes in a mod- 
erate oven. Save the whites of the 
eggs for Silver Cake. 

Silver Cake 

Qdtcau Argentd. 

H Cup of Butter. 1^ Cups of Sugar. 

1 Cup of Milk. 3 Cups of Flour. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

The Whites of 6 Eggs. 

Beat the butter to a cream; then 
add the well-beaten sugar and beat 
well; add the yolks of the eggs and 
beat till very light. Then add the 
milk and mix carefully. Now sift the 
flour and baking powder together, and 
add gradually to the mixture. Turn 
into a buttered pan and bake in a 
moderate oven for forty-flve minutes. 

Honey Cake 

Odteau de Miel. 

1 Teaspoonful of Honey. 

1 Teaspoonful of Sugar. 

H Teaspoonful of Melted Butter. 

1 Pint of Flour. 2 Eggs. 
1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 
1 Teaspoonful of Carraway Seeds. 

This is a very popular Creole cake. 
Mix well together one teacupful each 
of honey and sugar. Add a half tea- 
spoonful of melted butter and the 
yolks of two well-beaten eggs; sift 
one teaspoonful of baking powder 
into a pint of flour and add. Beat 
all together till very light, and add 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth. Finally, add a teaspoon- 
ful of carraway seed, if desired, and 
bake in a moderate oven from one- 
half to three-quarters of an hour. 

Imperial Cake 

Odteau Imperial. 

1 Pound of Butter. 1 Pound of Sugar. 

1 Pound of Flour. 

The Juice and Rind of 1 Lemon. 

1 Pound of Blanched Almonds. 

^ Pound of Citron. 

% Pound of Raisins. 9 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 

Blanch and peel and pound the al- 
monds in a mortar. Seed the raisins. 



280 



TH£ PICAYUNE CREX)L.E COOK BOOK 



and cut the citron into shreds and 
quarter-inch dice, very fine. Grate 
the rind of the lemon. Beat the but- 
ter to a cream. Add the sugrar grad- 
ually, beating till very light. Then 
add the yolks of the eggs beaten to a 
cream. Beat till very light, and mix 
the sifted flour and baking powder 
with the almonds, and add them grad- 
ually to the mixture, beating vigor- 
ously. Add the raisins, dredging with 
flour, and the citron. Mix well. Add 
the Juice of the lemon, and finally 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
thick froth. Turn into a buttered 
tin, and bake for an hour in a mod- 
erate oven. Use the broom- wisp test 
before taking out of the oven. 



Indian Pound Cake 

OAtcau VIndien. 

yk Cup of Flour. 1 Cup of Indian MeaL 

14 Pound of Butter. 

^ Pound Sugar. 8 Eggs. 1 Orated 

Nutmeg. 

1 Teaspoonful of Cinnamon. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a 
cream, and add the well-beaten yolks 
of the eggs. Beat till very light, and 
then add the meal and flour, well 
blended. Beat light. Add the spices 
and the whites of eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth. Beat thoroughly, but 
lightly, and turn into a buttered tin, 
and bake in a moderate oven for an 
hour and a half. 



Lady Cake (White) 

OAtcau Blanc A Ju Dame. 

1% Cups of Flour. 1 Cup of Sugar. 

H Cup of Butter. 

The Whites of 4 Eggs. % Cup of Milk. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powier. 

1 Teaspoonful of Peach Extract. 

Cream the butter, add the eggs, 
beating the whites to a stiff froth, and 
mixing well. Add the milk, and 
gradually add the flour, blending thor- 
oughly, and beating till very light. 
Add the essence, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven for one hour. 



Lunch Cake 

OAteau dn OoHter. 

4 Cups of Sugar. 3 Cups of Flour. 

^ Cup of Milk. 2 Eggs. 
2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 
1 Teaspoonful of Peach Extract. 

Beat the sugar and eggs to a cream, 
and add the milk. Then add grad- 
ually the flour» into which has been 



well sifted the baking powder. Add 
one tabiespoonful of Peach Bztract, 
and bake in a moderate oven for 
one hour. 



Madame John's Cake 

OAteau de M'me Jean. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 7 Ounces Butter. 
The Wthites of 16 Eggs. Whipped to a 

Stiff Froth. 
1 Pound Sifted Flour. Juice of 1 Orange. 

Cream the sugar and butter to- 
gether till very light. Then add th« 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
snow, after which stir in gradually 
the flour and one teaspoonful of bak- 
ing powder. Flavor with the juice of 
one orange, or with a tabiespoonful of 
Orange Extract, and bake it from 
thirty to forty-flve minutes in a quick 
oven. Use the broom wisp test. 

Marble Cake 

OAteau Marhre, 

The White Part: 

^ Cup of Butter. % Cup of Milk. 

IH Cups of White Pulverized Sugar 

2% Cups of Flour. The Whites of 4 

Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful Baking Powder. 

1 Teaspoonful of Extract of Lemon. 

Beat the butter to a cream, and 
gradually add the sugar, beaten thor- 
oughly till very light. Then add the 
milk, and stir carefully. Add one- 
half of the flour, evenly divided. Beat 
vigorously, and add the L#emon E«x- 
tract. Mix well, and add the whites 
of the eggs, beaten to a thick froth, 
and the remainder of the flour. Then 
stand this mixture to one side while 
you make the dark part of the cake. 
Dark Part: 

V4 Cup of Butter. 1 Cup of Brown 

Sugar. 

The Yolks of 4 Eggs. 

% Cup of Milk. 1^ Cups of Flour. 

2 Ounces of Melted Chocolate. 

1 Teaspoonful Vanilla. 

1 Teaspoonful of Cloves (if Desired). 

1 Teaspoonful Baking Powder. 

Beat the butter and the sugar to a 
cream, till very light, and then add 
the beaten yolks of the eggs, and beat 
till very light. Add the milk, and 
stir carefully. Then add the flour, 
and blend and beat till smooth. Dis- 
solve the chocolate in a little of the 
milk, and add, mixing well, and then 
add the vanilla essence and the bak- 
ing powder to the mixture. Add the 
baking powder now to the flrst mix- 
ture, and mix thoroughly and lightly. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



281 



Then grease a piece of brown paper, 
and line the cake pan, and put In 
flrat a spoonful of the white mixture 
and then one of the dark, and con- 
tinue alternating thus ttll all is used. 
Set In a moderate oven, and bake for 
three-quarters of an hour. Try the 
broom straw test, and If It comes out 
clean and dry the cake is done. If 
not, bake a quarter of an hour longer. 
The cake must cool In the pan In 
which It was baked. When cut you 
will have a beautifully marbled cake. 

Chooolate Marble Cake 

Odteau Marbre au Chocolat. 

The Whites of 6 Eggs. 

1 Cup of Butter. 

2 Cups of Sugar. 
8 Cups of Flour. 

\L Cup of Sweet Milk. 
2 Teaspoonf uls of Baking Powder. 

% Cake of Grated Chocolate. 
1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla Extract. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream, and then add the milk. Sift 
the flour and baking powder together, 
and stir Into the cake gradually. Then 
add the vanilla essence and the whites 
of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Divide the cake batter In two. and 
mix the grated chocolate with one- 
half. Then put a dark layer of cake 
in the pan. then a light, and con- 
tinue so alternating until all the bat- 
ter is used. Bake in a moderate oven 
for three-quarters of an hour. 

Motley Cake 

QAtcau M€l€. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

y^ Pound of Butter. 

8 Cups of Flour. 

12 Eggs. ^ , 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 
1 Teaspoonful of Peach Extract. 
1 Teaspoonful of Fruit Coloring. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream and then add the well-beaten 
yolks of the eggs. Beat until very 
light. Then add gradually the flour, 
into which has been well sifted, In 
the second sifting, the baking powder. 
Mix thoroughly and beat vigorously. 
Then add the whites of the eggs, beat- 
en to a stiff froth. Now divide the 
batter into two parts, and put one 
spoonful of Peach Extract into one. 
and one spoonful of fruit coloring 
into the other. Mix well, and drop 
by spoonfuls into the buttered cake 
pan, first a spoonful of the white, and 
then one of the pink, until all the 



batter is used up. Bake from forty- 
flve minutes to one hour in a mod- 
erate oven. 

Molasses Cake 

QAteau d la M^lasac. 

2 Cups of Louisiana Molasses. 

1 Cup of Boiling Milk or Water. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder or 

Soda. 

SH Cups of Flour (Sifted). 

4 Eggs. 

1 Cup Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Ground Ginger. 

% Teaspoonful of Cloves. 

Melt the butter. Dissolve the soda 
In the boiling water, using about one 
tablespoonful, and add It to the mo- 
lasses. Then beat the sugar and but- 
ter to a cream, until very light, and 
add the well-beaten yolks of the eggs. 
Add these to the molasses, and then 
stir In the cream. Beat till smooth, 
and then add gradually the. flour, 
beating till very light and smooth. 
Now add the. ginger and cloves, or a 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, and the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Place In a shallow cake pan. 
buttered, and bake In a moderate oven 
from thirty to forty-flve minutes. 

A Plain Molasses Cake 

Odteau d la M^lasae Simple. 

1 Cup of Louisiana Molasses. 

3 Cups of Flour. 1 Cup of Boiling Water. 

1 Teaspoonful of Soda. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful Ginger. 

Dissolve the soda in boiling water, 
and add to it the molasses. Then add 
the melted butter, and pour In grad- 
ually the boiling water, mixing well. 
Now add gradually the flour, beating 
well, and next the ginger. Beat until 
all Is very smooth, and then bake for 
a half hour In 'ibl moderate oven. 



"Ijost Cake" 

Manqu6, 

The Yolks of 8 Eggs. 

The Whites of 3 Eggs Beaten to a Froth. 

^ Pound of White Pulverized Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 1 Cup of 

Flour. 

The Grated Rind of 1 Lemon. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 

Beat the sugar and butter and yolks 
of the eggs to a very light cream, 
and then add the grated rind of the 
lemon. Gradually add the flour, 
which has been several times sifted 
with the baking powder. Then add 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to 
a stiff froth. Beat lightly and quick- 



282 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK: BOOK 



ly, and place in a buttered cake pan, 
and bake for thirty minutes in a mod- 
erately quick oven. 

Nut Cake 

04 tea u aux Noix. 

1 Cup of Butter. 2 Cups of Sugrar. 

3 Cups of Flour. 1 Cup of Milk. 

4 EgTffS. 1 Cup of Nut Meats, Cut Fine. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking: Powder. 
H Teaspoonful of Extract of Almond. 

Beat the butter to a cream, and 
add the sugrar, and beat till very ligrht. 
Then add the well-beaten yolks of 
the egiTs, and beat till very light. Add 
the milk, and mix carefully. Then 
sift the baking powder and flour to- 
gether, and add the flour, beating till 
very smooth. Add half the beaten 
whites, which must be quite stiff, 
and mix well. Then add the nuts 
(pecans, mashed almonds, peanuts 
and Brazilian nuts, mixed, and cut or 
mashed very fine). Add the re- 
mainder of the whites of the eggs, the 
Almond Extract and the baking pow- 
der, and mix well. Pour Into two 
square, flat pans, lined with buttered 
paper, and bake In a moderate oven 
forty-flve minutes. Use the broom- 
straw test. If the straw comes out 
clean and dry the cake is done; oth- 
erwise bake it a little longer. Keep 
the heat of the oven steady and mod- 
erate. 

Orangre Cake 

OAteau d'Orange. 

4 Ripe Oranges. 1 Pound Pulverised 

Sugar. 

1 Pound of Butter. 

14 Ounces of Flour. 10 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 

Wash the oranges. Then dry and 
roll them under your hand on a board 
tin very soft. Grate the peel of the 
oranges, and then cut up the fruit 
flne, and squeeze through a strainer 
till all the juice Is extracted. Wash 
the butter till you extract all the salt, 
then beat very thoroughly, and next 
add the orange peel and Juice, and 
beat' till very light. Add the yolks of 
the ergs, well beaten, and again beat 
the mixture till light. Then, by de- 
grees, add the flour, adding alter- 
nately the whites of the eggs, beaten 
to a stiff froth. Beat the whole for 
half an hour, then bake In a mod- 
erate oven for forty-flve minutes or 
an hour, using the broom wisp test. 
If you Ice the cake, add orange Juice 
to the Icing. 



Pearl Cake 

OAteau A la Perle. 

% Pound of Butter. 1 Pound of Sug^r. 

1 Pint of Milk. 4 Eggs. 
1 Teaspoonful of Soda. 1 Pound of 

Flour. 
% Grated Nutmeg. 
1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Extract. 

Beat the butter and the sugar to a 
cream. Beat the eggs, whites and 
yolks separately, and add the yolka 
Then beat till very light. Add the 
soda, dissolved in a tablespoonful of 
boiling water, and then add the milk 
and beat carefully. Add the flour 
gradually, and beat vigorously. Then 
add the spices and essence, and lastly 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth. Bake for an hour in a 
moderate oven. 



Premium Cake 

OAteau Royal. 

The Whites of 14 Eggs. 1 Pound of 

Sugar. 

% Pound of Flour. H Pound Butter. 

The Juice and Grated Hind of 1 I^emon. 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 

% a Cup of W^ater. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 

cream, and add one-half of the whites 

of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 

Then add the flour gradually, beating 

thoroughly and well, till very light, 

mixing in gradually the half -cup of 

water. Add the lemon Juice, and the 

grated rind of the lemon, and finally 

add the remainder of the whites and 

the baking powder, beating till very 

light. Bake In a moderate oven from 

forty-flve minutes to an hour. 



Pound Cake 

OAteau A la Livre. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 1 Pound of Butter. 

1 Pound of Flour. 10 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful Baking Powder. 
1 Tablespoonful of Lemon or Vanilla 

Extract. 

Wash the salt from one pound of 
butter, then take out one heaping 
tablespoonful of butter from it Ex- 
perience in baking pound cakes has 
taught that a whole pound of butter 
will make a creasy cake, though many 
people use a full pound. If once the 
present method Is tried the difference 
will be apparent In the superior qual- 
ity of the cake. After washing the 
butter, beat It with the white pulver- 
ized sugar to a thick cream. Have the 
baking powder and the flour sifted 
together. Beat the yolks of the egg? 



mi£ PICAYUNE CR£OIi£ COOK BOOK 



283 



-well, and then add them to the sugar 
and butter, beating: till very light. 
Til en add a part of the flour, and 
beat light. Add a part of the whites 
of the eggrs and mix thoroughly. Then 
alternate with the flour and the whites 
of the eggs until all are used up. Add 
tlie essence of lemon or vanilla and 
continue beating vigorously for a half 
hour. Put the batter in a cake pan 
(a Turk's head), lined with buttered 
paper, and bake for one hour in a 
moderate oven. Use the broom straw 
test. If the cake is not quite done, 
bake a quarter of an hour longer. 
Kever touch or move a pound cake in 
tbe oven till the center is set. 

Pound Cake— No. 2 

Odtcau d la Livre — No. 2. 

1 Pound of White Pulverized Sugar. 

10 Eggs. 1 Pound Sifted Flour. 

1 Grated Nutmeg. 

1 Pound of Butter. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla, Lemon or 

Hos6 W^ater 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 

Wash the butter and drain, and 
take out a heaping teaspoonful. Then 
beat the remainder to a rich cream 
with the sugar, and add the well- 
beaten yolks of the eggs. Beat till 
very light, and add a part of the flour, 
into which has been well sifted the 
baking powder. Then add a part of 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stifF froth, and continue alternating 
with the flour and the eggs till all are 
used up. Then add the grated nut- 
meg and the essence, and continue 
beating steadily for a half hour. Bake 
in a moderate oven for one hour. Use 
the broom wisp test. If it comes out 
clean and dry the cake is done; other- 
wise continue baking for a quarter of 
an hour longer. 

Some, in making pound cake, use 
sixteen eggs, leaving out the yolks of 
four; others use twelve eggs. The 
above measurements, which are for a 
four- pound cake, will be found exact, 
and if the cake is properly made it 
will be delicious. 

White Pound Cake 

Odtcau Blanc A la Livre. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 1 Pound of Flour. 
1 Pound of Butter. The Whites of 16 

Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful Baking Powder. 

1 Teaspoonful of Lemon Extract. 

Wash the butter. Then beat it and* 
the sugar to a fine cream. Add one- 
quarter of the flour, well sifted with 



the baking powder. Then add one- 
quarter of the whites of the eggs, 
which have been well beaten to a stiff 
froth. Continue alternating the eggs 
and flour till all are used. Add the 
flavoring extract, and beat steadily 
for a half hour. Bake in a moderate 
oven for one hour. 



Plum Cake, or Old-Fashloned Creole 
Wedding Cake 

Odteau de Noce Creole d VAnclenne 

2% Pounds Flour. 1^ Pounds Sifted 

Sugar. 

IH Pounds Butter. 

1 Pound of Seeded and Chopped Raisins. 

1 Pound Chopped and Dried Cherries. 

1 Pound of Currants, Washed, Cleansed 

and Dried. 

1 Cup of Water. 

12 Eggs. 1 Ounce of Salt. 

IH Pounds of Shredded Orani^e, Lemon 

and Green Citron Peel. Combined. 

^ Gill of Caramel or Burnt Sugar 

Coloring. 

8 Ounces of Ground Almonds. 

The Rind of 4 Oranges. 

1 Ounce of Ground Cloves. 

Cinnamon, Nutmeg and Coriander Seed 

in Equal Proportions. 

Work the butter until it becomes 
very creamy, using a wooden spoon. 
Then add the sugar, working to a 
thick cream, and add the yolks of the 
eggs, well beaten. Beat till light, and 
add by degrees the flour, salt and 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
working the batter all the time, as 
you add, meanwhile, the cup of cold 
water. Then add the fruit, which 
has been very slightly dredged with 
flour, working all well into the batter. 
Add the whites of the eggs, beaten to 
a thick froth, and when all are well 
incorporated, pour the mixture into a 
baking pan, lined up with double 
sheets of buttered paper, and place on 
top thick sheets of • paper when it is 
set in the oven. Bake in a moderate 
oven, and keep the heat regular and 
steady all the time, being careful not 
to inprease or diminish it during the 
baking. Bake for two hours and a 
half. This is a very big wedding cake. 
To make a smaller one, use half the 
Ingredients, and bake half the time. 

To ice the cake, clear it of the paper 
when it grows cold. Place it on a 
baking sheet, and cover the top with 
a coating of Orgeat Paste (see re- 
cipe) one and a half inches thick. 
Let it dry for an hour and then cover 
with a coating of Plain Icing (see re- 
cipe) about half an Inch in thickness. 
When this becomc'i hard decorate it 



284 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



with a piping: around the edges in 
tasteful designs, mingling artificial 
buds and blossoms in the decorations. 
Add a delicate wreath of blush roses. 
This is the old-fashioned Creole wed- 
ding cake. 

Raisin Cake 

Odteau de Raisins Bees. 

m Pounds of Stoned Raisins. 
1% Pints of Sugar. 1% Pints of Flour. 
% Pound of Butter. 2 Pints of Milk. 

6 Eggs. 
2H Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

Sift the flour and baking powder 
together. Then beat the butter and 
sugar to a cream, add the yolks of 
the eggs, and beat till very light. Beat 
the whites to a stifC froth, and then 
add alternately the whites and flour 
to the mixture, beating vigorously till 
light. Flour the raisins, and shake 
lightly, till each becomes slightly 
coated all over, and add to the cake 
batter, and then begin to stir lightly, 
stirring just suflficient to mix. Have 
ready a deep baking pan or two, lined 
with buttered paper, and bake in a 
rather quick oven for about forty-flve 
minutes or an hour. Have a thick 
layer of paper over the cake for the 
first half hour of baking. 

Spanish Cake 

Odteau d VEspagnole. 

1 Pound of Butter. 1 Pound of Sifted 

Flour. 
1 Pound of Good Brown Sugar. 

6 Well-Beaten Eggs. 
1 Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream. Add the well-beaten yolks of 
the eggs, and then alternately the 
flour, with which the baking powder 
has been sifted, and the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in 
a buttered cake pan for about an hour 
in a moderate oven. 

Splcc Cake 

Qdtcau d'6pif'€8. 

1 Pound of Flour. 
1 Pound of White Pulverized Sugar. 
% of a Pound of Butter. 9 Eggs. 
1 Teaspoonful of Ground Cinnamon. 
H Teaspoonful of Ground Allspice. 
1 Teaspoonful of Grated Nutmeg* 
^ Teaspoonful of Ground Mace. 
1 Teaspoonful of Soda. 
1% Cups of Sour Cream, hi Teaspoon- 
ful of Salt. 

Beat the butter and the sugar to a 
cream, and then add the well-beaten 
yolks of the eggs. Beat till very 
light. Add half the flour gradually* 



alternating with half the whites of 
the eggs, which have been well beaten 
to a thick froth. Then add the spicea 
Now add gradually the rest of the 
flour, and then the remainder of the 
whites of the eggs. Finally add tlie 
sour milk, in which has been mixed 
one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a 
tablespoonful of boiling water. Stir 
well, and turn into a buttered Turk's 
head tin, and bake for one hour in a 
moderate oven. Use the broom straw 
test. 

Spiced Molasses Cake 

Gdteau d'Spices d la MHasse, 

1 Cup of Louisiana Molasses. 
1 Cup of Sugar. % Cup of Butter. 2 

Eggs. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Vinegar. 

2 Teaspoonfuls Soda. 

V2 Teaspoonful Each of Cloves, Allspice 

and Cinnamon (Ground). 

1 Grated Nutmeg. 3 Cups of Flour. 

\i Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Warm the molasses and dilute with 
vinegar. Beat the butter and the 
sugar to a cream, and then add the 
eggs, whites and yolks, well beaten 
together. Then add gradually one- 
half of the flour and the molasses. 
Add the grated spices and salt. Beat 
well. Add the soda, dissolved in two 
tablespoonfuls of boiling water, and 
beat well. Bake in a moderate oven 
from thirty to forty-five minutes. 

Sponge Cake 

Odteau Biscuit de Savoie. 

9 Eggs. 1 Pound of White Pulverised 

Sugar. 
H Pound Flour. 
The Juice of 1 Lemon. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs very 
light, and then add the sugar, and 
beat till light. Then add the Juice of 
the lemon, and very gradually one- 
half of the flour. Have the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, so 
that they may be cut with a knife. 
Add one-half to the cake, and then 
add the remaining half of the flour. 
Beat well. Now add the second 
half of the whites, and beat lightly. 
Pour into a cake pan, lined at the 
bottom and around with buttered pa- 
per, and bake in a quick oven from 
forty-flve minutes to one hour, using 
the broom straw test. Cover the cake 
with a layer of thick brown paper 
when you flrst put it in the oven. 
Keep the heat of the oven steady. The 
Sponge Cake, next to "Lady Fingers." 
which are a species of sponge, is the 
very lightest of cakes. 



rrH£ PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



285 



Cream Sponge Cake 

Biscuit de Savoie d la Crdme 

2 Cups of Sugar. 1 Cup of Cream. 

2 CupB of Flour. 4 Bggrs. 
1 Teaspoonful of Bakiner Powder. 
1 Teaspoonful of Lemon Essence. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the 
sugar to a cream. Add the cream, 
and gradually add the flour and bak- 
ing powder, sifted. Add the whites 
of the eggs, beat slightly, and bake 
in a quick oven thirty minutes. 



White Mountain Cake 

OAteau d la Montague Blanche. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 1% Pounds Butter. 
1 Pound of Flour. The Whites of 10 

Kgga. 
% Teaspoonful of Almond Extract. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, 
and beat till very, very light. Add 
the flour alternately with the whites 
of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, 
and then the almond essence. Bake in 
a moderate oven one hour. 



Quick Sponge Cake 

Vitement Fait 

Z Eggs. 1% Cups of Sugar. 
2 Cups of Flour. % Cup of Cold Water. 
1 Teaspoonful of Lemon EiXtract. 
2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

Beat the eggs and sugar to a cream, 
add the water, and mix well. Then 
gradually add the flour, alternating 
with the whites of the eggs, beaten 
to a thick froth. Bake from thirty 
to forty-five minutes in a quick oven. 

White Sponge Cake 

OAteau Blanc Savoie. 

1% Cups of Pulverised White Sug^ar. 

1 Cup of Flour. The Whites of 11 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful Bakingr Powder. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla Extract. 

Beat the whites of the eggs and 

the sugar to a thick froth. Mix the 

baking powder and the flour, adding 

the powder after the fourth sifting. 

Then add the flour gradually to the 

eggs, beating lightly and thoroughly. 

Add the essence, and bake the cake 

thirty to forty-five minutes in a quick 

oven. 

Tuttl-Frutti Cake 

OAteau Tutti-Frutti. 

1 Cup of Sugrar. 1 Cup of Butter. 

1 Teacup of Milk. 2% Teacups of Flour. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Bakingr Powder. 

1 Pound of Raisins. 1 Pound of Figs. 

1 Pound of Powdered Almonds. 

The Whites of 7 Eggs. 

Beat to a fine cream one teacupful 
of sugar and one of butter. Add a 
teacupful of milk and two and a half 
teaspoons of flour sifted, with two 
heaping teaspoons of baking pow- 
der; add one pound of raisins, well 
seeded, and one pound each of shred- 
ded figs and pounded almonds. After 
mixing all these well, add the whites 
of seven eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
Bake in a slow oven. When done, 
make a light syrup, spread it over the 
top, and garnish with pieces of finely- 
cut preserved citron, oranges, pre- 
served currants and other candies. 



White Cream Cake 

OAteau A la Cretne, 

4 Cups of Flour. 1 Cup of Butter. 

1 Cup of Sweet Cream. 

3 Cups of Sugar. The Whites of 10 Egrss. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Bakingr Powder. 
1 Teaspoonful of White Rose Extract. 

Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for White Mountain Cake, only 
put in the cream just before adding 
the flour and the whites of the eggs. 

Twelfth Night, or King's Cake 

OAteau de Roi. 

2 Pounds of the Best Flour. 

12 EggB. 1 Cup of Sugrar. 

1 Pound of the Best Butter. 

H Ounce of Yeast. 

^ Ounce of Salt. 

Candies to Decorate. 

This is a Creole cake associated with 
the history of the famous New Or- 
leans carnival celebrated in song and 
story. The "King's Cake," or "Ga- 
teau de Rol," is inseparably connect- 
ed with the origin of our now world- 
* famed carnival balls. In fact, they 
really spring from the old Creole 
custom of choosing a king and queen 
on King's Day, or Twelfth Night. In 
old New Orleans, after the inaugura- 
tion of ,the Spanish domination and 
the amalgamation of the French set- 
tlers and the Spanish into that pe- 
culiarly chivalrous and romantic race, 
the Louisiana Creole, the French pret- 
tily adopted many of the customs of 
their Spanish relatives, and vice versa. 
Among these was the traditional 
Spanish celebration of King's Day, 
"Le Jour des Rois," as the Creoles 
term the day. King's Day falls on 
January 6, or the twelfth day after 
Christmas, and commemorates the 
visit of the three Wise Men long ago 
to the lowly Bethlehem manger. This 
day is still even in our time the Span- 
ish Christmas, when gifts are pre- 
sented in commemoration of the 
King's gifts. With the Creoles it be- 
came "Le Petit No61," or Little 



286 



THE picayune: CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



Christmas, and adopting: the Spanish 
custom, there were always grand balls 
on Twelfth Night; a king and a queen 
were chosen, and there were constant 
rounds of festivities, night after night, 
till the dawn of Ash Wednesday. 
The interval between January 6, or 
King's Day, and Mardi Qras Day thus 
became the accepted Carnival season. 
To make the cake put a pound and 
a half of the very finest quality of flour 
Into a large wooden bread trough. 
Make a hole in the center of the flour, 
and put in a half ounce of yeast, dis- 
solved in a little warm water. Add 
milk or tepid water to make the 
dough, using milk if you want it to be 
very rich and delicate. Knead and mix 
the flour with one hand, while adding 
the milk or water with the other. 
Make a dough that is neither too stiff 
nor too soft, and when perfectly 
smooth set it aside to rise in a moder- 
ately warm place, covering with a 
cloth. Remember that if you use milk 
to make the dough it must be scalded, 
that is must be heated to the boiling 
point, and then allowed to grow tepid. 
Let the dough rise for five or six 
hours, and, when increased to twice 



its bulk, mix well with it the re- 
served half pound of flour, into which 
has been well sifted the salt. Add six 
eggs, beaten very light with the sugar 
and butter, and mix all well together, 
kneading lightly with your hands, and 
adding more eggs if the dough is a 
little stiff. Then knead the dough by 
turning it over on itself three times, 
and set to rise again for an hour or 
three-quarters of an hour. Cover 
with a cloth. At the end of this time 
take it up and work again lightly, 
and then form into a great ring, leav- 
ing, of course, a hole in the center. 
Pat gently and flatten a little. Have 
ready a baking pan with a buttered 
sheet of paper in it, and set the big. 
open roll in the middle. Cover the 
pan with a clean, stiff cloth, and set 
the cake to rise for an hour longer. 
When well risen, set in an oven a few 
degrees cooler than that used for 
baking bread; let bake for an hour 
and a half; if medium, one hour, and 
if very small, a half hour. Glaze the 
Brioche nicely with a beaten egg. 
spread lightly over the top before 
placing in the oven. Decorate with 
drag^es, caramels, etc. 



CHAPTER XXXVIII 



LJ^E 




AKES 



General Directions 

In making layer cakes, always have 
ready three or four jelly tins, and 
bake the cake in layers in the separ- 
ate tins for fifteen minutes. Then set 
to cool, and make the fillings and 
place alternately between the layers, 
a layer of cake always being on top, 
to admit of icing, if desired. 

These directions for arranging the 
filling will hold for almost all layer 
cakes. 

Layer Cake 

To make the layer cake, use any 
good Sponge, Pound or White Cake 
recipes, using three-quarters of the 
proportions of each to make four 
good layers, and increasing in propor- 



tion. Bake in jelly tins for fifteen 
minutes, and set to cool before add- 
ing the filling. 

Almond Cake 

Gdteau d'Amandes. 

2 Cups of Sugar. 1 Cup of Milk. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Cups of Flour. The Whites of 6 "Eggs. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

1 Teaspoonful Liemon Extract. 

Proceed to cream the butter and 
sugar. Add the milk, and gradually 
add the flour and the whites of the 
eggs alternately, and beat till light 
Add the essence, and bake in jelly 
tins fifteen minutes. Make a filling 
as follows: 

Take two pounds of almonds, 
blanch them, peel and pound to 9 



THE PICAYUNE CRPJOLE COOK BOOK 



287 



flour. Beat the whites of two eggs 
to a froth with one-half cup of sugar, 
and spread on top of the bottom layer 
of cake as a frosting. Place over this 
a layer of the almonds, -and then an- 
other layer of frosting. Add a layer 
of cake, and then go over the same 
process again till the top layer of 
cake is reached. Sprinkle with white 
sugar or ice neatly, accordinc to taste. 

Banana Laiycr Cake 

Odtvau tie BananvH. 

9 Eggs. % Pound of Flour. 

1% Cups of Pulverized Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Lemon or Vanilla 

Extract. 
3 Bananas. 

Prepare four layers of Sponge 
<^ake. (See recipe.) Slice the ba- 
nanas lengthwise very nicely^ and lay 
on the bottom layer. Sprinkle with 
a little powdered sugar, and then 
spread over all a little Cream Sauce 
made Just to the consistency of Cream 
Puff Filling. (See recipe.) Over this 
put on the second layer of cake; cover 
nicely with the bananas and the cream 
sauce, and proceed thus till the top 
layer is placed over the bananas. Then 
sprinkle with white sugar, or ice it, as 
desired. 

Chocolate Layer Cake 

(Mtcau au Cfiocolat. 

A Layer Cake. (See recipe.) 1 Cup of 

Powdered Sugar. 
1 Cup of Milk or Water. 4 Ounces of 

Chocolate. 
The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

Make a layer cake. Boil four 
ounces of chocolate in one cup of milk 
or water. Add one cup of sugar, and 
let it boil till thick. Spread between 
the layers of cake. Or take four 
ounces of chocolate, melt with a little 
boiling water, just suflicient to make 
a paste, and work till smooth. Beat 
the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth 
with four tablespoonfuls of fine su- 
gar, and then proceed as in Almond 
Layer Cake, having a layer of choco- 
late on top. 

Cocoanut Layer Cake 

OdUau au Coco. 

4 Layers of Cake. (See Layer Cake 

Recipe.) 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

1 Cup of Powdered Sugar. 2 Cups of 

Grated Cocoanut. 

White Sugar to Sprinkle. 

Make a good layer cake. Beat the 
whites of two eggs till very frothy. 



Add one cup of powdered sugar, and 
beat till very stiff. Orate the cocoa- 
nut, and then proceed as in filling 
the Almond Cake, having a layer of 
the cocoanut on top, sprinkled with 
white sugar. (See recipe.) 



Cream Layer Cake 

QAteau d la Crtmc. 

4 Layers of Sponge Cake. (See recipe.) 

The Yolks of 2 Eggs. 

1 Cup of Pulverized Sugar. 2 Teaspoon- 

fuls of Cream. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

Make a layer sponge cake. Prepare 
a filling by beating together the yolks 
of two eggs, one cup of pulverized 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls of cream, 
and one teaspoonful of Vanilla. Beat 
and mix thoroughly to a thick cream, 
and spread between the layers, with 
a layer of cake on top. 



Fig Layer Cake 

QAtcau aux Figues. 

4 Layers of Sponge Cake. (See recipe.) 

1 Pound of Chopped Plge. 

1 Cup of Sugar. ^ Cup of Water. 

Make a layer cake — any kind, 
white, sponge or cream. Bake in 
jelly tins. Boil one pound of chopped 
figs, one cup of sugar, and one-half 
cup of water, till the figs form a 
jelly. Spread, when cool, between 
the layers of cake, while they are 
still hot. and proceed as in Almond 
Layer Cake. 



Jelly Layer Cake 

OAtcau d la Oclcc. 

4 Layers of Cake. (See Recipe Layer 

Cake.) 
1 Cup of Pineapple, Peach, Raspberry or 

Any Jelly. 

Make a layer cake, and spread, 
while hot, with any kind of jelly, 
peach, lemon, raspberry, apple, straw- 
berry or the like. 



Lemon Layer Cake 

Odicau au Citron. 

The Grated Rind and Juice of 1 Lemon. 

4 Layers of Cake. (See recipe.) 
1 Cup of Sugar. 1 Egg. 1 Teaspoonful 

of Water. 
1 Teaspoonful of Flour. 

Make a nice layer, sponge or cup 
cake. Prepare a good layer filling of 
creamed lemon by taking one cup of 
sugar, one egg, the grated rind and 
juice of one lemon, one teaspoonful 



288 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



of water and one of flour. Blend the 
sugar, water and flour, and add the 
well-beaten egg. Add the rind and 
Juice of the lemon. Boll In a bain- 
marie (a kettle set in a kettle, of hot 
water), and let It thicken. Spread be- 
tween the layers, and Ice, or sprinkle 
with sugar. 

Orange Layer Cake 

OAteau a VOrange. 

4 L«ayer8 of Pound or Cup Cake. (See 

Recipe.) 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

3 Cups of Sugar. 

The Grated Rind and Juice of 1 Orange. 

Juice of Half a Lemon. 

1 Teaspoonful of Orange Extract. 

Make a good layer, pound or cup 
cake. Then nlake a fllllng of the 
whites of two eggs, three cups of su- 
gar, the grated rind and Juice of one 
orange, half a lemon's Juice, two tea- 
spoonfuls of orange extract. Mix all 
thoroughly, and spread between the 
layers of the cake. 

Pecan Layer Cake 

Odtcan auaf Paean*. 

4 Layers of Cup or Sponge Cake. 
The Whites of 3 Eggs. 1 Cup of Minced 

Louisiana Pecans. 
3 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 1 Teaspoon- 
ful of Lemon Extract. 

Make a good Layer Cake or Cup 
Cake, (See recipe). Beat the whites 
of three eggs to a stiflF froth. Add 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar, and 
one cup of minced and pounded pe- 
cans. Add one teaspoonful of extract 
of lemon, and All the cake, leaving 
a layer of the fllllng on top. This Is 
a typical Creole cake. Instead of 
mincing the pecans for the layers, 
some cooks shell them in halves. This 
is a matter of taste. 

Pineapple Layer Cake 

OAteau a VAnanaa. 

H Pound of Flour. 

IH Cups of Pulverized Sugar. 

9 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Lemon or Pineapple 

Extract. 
1 Pineapple. 

Prepare four layers of sponge cake. 
Pare the pineapple, being careful to 
cut out all the eyes and the core. 
Grate the fruit very flne. Place a 
layer of the fruit over the bottom 
layer of the cake, sprinkle with a 
little powdered sugar and then spread 
over this a little Cream Sauce, which 
has been made to the consistency of 
Cream Puff Filling. (See recipe.) Put 



a second layer of the cake over this, 
cover nicely with the grated pine- 
apple, sugar and Cream Filling, and 
proceed thus till the top layer is 
placed over the pineapple. Then ioe 
or sprinkle with white sugar. 

Raisin Cake 

Odteau aux RaUtint 8ev9. 

4 Layers of Pound or Cup Cake. (See 

Recipe.) 

)4 Pound of Raisins. V& Pound of 

Citron. 

H Teaspoonful Each of Ground Cloves, 

Cinnamon, Allspice and Nutmeg. 

Frosting to Cover. 

Make a good Pound or Cup Cake. 
(See recipes.) Bake in tins, taking 
out enough to fill three tins. Then 
add to the remaining batter one-half 
teaspoonful each of ground cloves, all- 
spice, cinnamon and nutmeg, and 
one-quarter pound each of raisins, 
seeded, and citron, chopped very fine. 
Mix thoroughly, and bake in two 
layers. Place between the other 
layers, alternating with a frosting, as 
in Almond Layer Cake. (See recipe.) 

Rainbow Cake 

C^dt€au 4 VArc-en-Ciel. 

C Layers of Sponge or of Pound Cake. 

3 Ounces of Pink Icing. 

3 Ounces of Violet Icing. 

3 Ounces of Chocolate Icing. 

8 Ounces of Vanilla Icing. 

3 Ounces of White Icing. 

Make a good layer cake, either 
Pound or Sponge. Prepare the Cream 
Icings (see recipes under chapter 
Icings for Cakes). Place these be- 
tween the alternate layers in the or- 
der above given. Ice the cake nicely. 
This is a very pretty cake. 

Layer Cake of Fresh Fmlts 

Odteau aux Fruits. 
4 Layers of White or Gold Cake. (See 

Recipes.) 

3 Apples. 2-3 of a Cup of Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Orange or Lemon 

Extract. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 4 Tablespoonfuls 

of Powdered Sugar. 

Make a good White Cake or Gold 
Cake. (See recipes.) Pare and grate 
three apples, and cook them with two- 
thirds of a cup of sugar. When they 
come to a thick Jelly, take off the 
stove and flavor with Lemon or 
Orange Extract. Beat the whites of 
two eggs, till very light, and add to 
them four tablespoonfuls of white 
sugar, and beat till very stiff, so stiff 
that the whites can stand alone. 
Spread a layer of this on the top of 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



289 



the bottom layer of cake, add a layer 
of apples, spread another layer of 
frosting:, cover with a layer of cake, 
and so continue till all is used up. 

Strawberry layer cake, peach, rasp- 
berry, apricot, orange, pineapple and 
all fresh fruit layer cakes may be 



made in the same manner. Only in 
the orange and pineapple do not cook 
the fruits, but simply grate four or five 
oranges, or one pineapple, and spread 
the fillings in layers between the frost- 
ing. These cakes, properly made, are 
most delicious. 



CHAPTER XXXK 



DESSE 




CAKES 



Pdti9seriv Fine Pour Desaert. 



The Bouch6es, Macarons, Massepains, 
Meringues, MOl^s Creoles 

Bitcvita au9 Amandea et aux Piataachca, 
Amandea Soujffliea, etc. 

The native ingenuity of the Creole 
chefs adapted many of the nuts and 
fruits of Louisiana to various forms 
of sweetened batter, and the re.<3ult of 
their efforts, handed down from gen- 
eration to generation, is given in the 
following carefully compiled recipes, 
which, perhaps, after our unique 
"aumbos," "Courtbouillons." "Bouil- 
labaise," "Rftgouts" and "Jambalayas," 
will serve better than any other 
recipes^ to give a true idea of the 
infinite variety of the properly con- 
ducted Creole kitchen. They will also 
give a glimpse, into the interior life 
of the Creole household, some of 
them, especially, being associated 
with pleasant, simple forms of "soi- 
rees," that have almost passed away. 

Advice and Instmofions for Baking 
These Cakes 

Use the best materials. It always 
pays in the delicate and perfect taste 
of the cake. 

Soda, if not properly dissolved, will 
give to cakes and biscuits a bad, 
greenish color. 

Keep the cake out of the draft 
while beating and baking. All the 
following cakes, as indeed, all cakes, 
should be baked in their own steam, 
that is, keep the door of the oven 
shut till the cakes have finished 
spreading. Then, if the oven is hot 
enough, you may lower the fire. This 
gives the cake a light, bright color. 



Remember meringues and very large 
cakes are not specified in these in- 
structions. For meringues the oven 
must never be very hot. 

If you are expert at baking, you 
may test the heat of the oven simply 
by touching the handle of the oven 
door, but a sure test for beginners is 
to throw a little cornmeal or flour 
in the center of the oven, coun^ ten, 
and if the flour begins to smoke be- 
fore you count the full number the 
oven is too hot. if it smokes at ten 
the oven is just hot enough. 

Never put flavoring extracts direct- 
ly into the flour, or they will form 
lumps. Always put them in the wet 
part of the mixture. 

Bonch^s 

These are a delicious form of des- 
sert cakes. Great care must be taken 
to trim the cakes evenly and equal in 
size before attempting to finish them. 
Bouch^es are made with batter and 
also with almost all our Louisiana 
fruits. As the name indicates a 
Bouch^e is simply "a mouthful." 

Iced Bouch^s 

9 Eggs. 1 Pound of White Pulverised 

Sugar. % Pound of Flour. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Extract. 

1 Cup of Currant or Other Jelly for 

Filling. Transparent Icing to Garnish. 

Prepare a sponge or cup cake bat- 
ter. (See recipe under chapter 
"Cakes.") Have ready a baking sheet, 
covered well with white writing paper. 
Lay the batter out on the paper by 
forcing it through a biscuit cutter in 



290 



THE PICATTNE OREOIiE COOK BOOK 



rounds that will measure one inch and 
a half in diameter. They will spread. 
Dredgre the surface with white sugar 
very lightly, and bake them for about 
fifteen minutes or less, until they are 
a light color. Then trim nicely and 
place them upon a wire drainer. Place 
circular pieces of currant or other pre- 
serves on top< and garnish with a 
meringue or Transparent Icing. (See 
recipe.) Set in the stove or the sun 
to dry, and in ten minutes they will 
be ready to serve. 

Bouch^s With Oranges. 

Bouchiea atuc Oranget 

3 Eggs. 1 Pound of Pulverized Sugar. 

% Pound of Flour. 

The Juice of 1 Orange or 1 Tablespoon- 

ful of Extract. 

1 Cup of Orange Marmalade. 

Transparent Icing to Garnish. 

Prepare the cake drops as directed 
above, with sponge or cup cake bat- 
ter. Then place thin slices of oranges 
cooked in syrup on the Bouch^es (see 
Orange Marmalade), and glaze them 
over with Transparent Icing. (See 
recipe.) Flavor the batter of these 
Bouch^es with the rind of an orange. 

Bouch^s With Peaches 

Bouchies aux P^che9 

9 Eggs. 1 Pound of White Pulverized 

Sugar. \^ Pound of Flour. 

1 Tablespoon Peach-stone Extract. 

1 Cup of Preserved Peaches. 

Transparent Icing to Garnish. 

Prepare the drop cakes as directed 
in "Bouchies de Dames." Place halves 
of peaches, preserved in syrup, over 
them (home-made preserves), and 
gloss over with Transparent Icing, fla- 
vored with Noyau (the peach-stone ex- 
tract), and slightly tinged with Tar- 
mine. (See recipe.) 

In preparing all these bouchies, do 
not allow any excess of moisture from 
the preserves. The syrup must be 
entirely absorbed by the bouch^e be- 
fore you attempt to glaze it with the 
icing. 

In making bouchies with preserves 
use any kind of marmalade to stick 
two bouchies together, and ice the 
.surface. 

Bouchies With Pineapples 

BouchCea aux Anunas. 

9 Eggs. 1 Pound of Pulverized Sugar. 
% Pound of Flour. 
1 Cup of Preserved Pineapples. 
Transparent Icing to Garnish. 

Make little drop cakes one inch 
and a half in diameter. Place smaller 



slices of thin, preserved pineapple 
upon each, and glaze or glac6 over 
with Transparent Icing (see recipe), 
flavoring with pineapple syrup. 



MACAROONS 

Macarona 

1 Pound of Sweet Almonds. 

1 Ounce of Butter. 

2 Pounds of Sifted Sugar. 

The Whites of 6 Eggs. 

Blanch or scald the almonds by 
throwing them into a pan of boiling 
water, and letting them remain on the 
fire until you can take one of them 
between your fingers and very easily 
peel off the skin by pushing it be- 
tween the finger and thumb. Then 
drain and cool the almonds in cold 
water, and drain again. Rub the skins 
or hulls off with a clean cloth, put the 
almonds in cold water with a little 
salt, wash clean, drain and dry them 
in another cloth. The almonds must 
be cold before you put them into a 
mortar. Then pound them to a pulp 
that will be as smooth as flour. Beat 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. 
Add a little of the sugar and a little of 
the eggs as you pound, to prevent the 
almonds from becoming oily. Remem- 
ber • always that the paste must be 
kept firm as you add the remainder 
of the sugar and the eggs. Have ready 
a baking sheet, on which has been 
placed a nice buttered piece of wafer 
paper. Lay the macaroons out on 
this, by dropping them from the 
spoon. Be very careful to place the 
macaroons about an inch apart, so 
that the balls will not touch one an- 
other. When the sheet is full, press 
a wet paste brush gently over their 
surface. Put them in the oven, and 
bake at a very moderate heat till they 
are a light, delicate brown or fawn 
color. When done, take out and set 
to cool, and remove any pieces of 
wafer paper that may cling to the 
edges. Keep in a dry place. 



Chocolate Macaroons 

Macarona au Chocolat 

12 Ounces of Ground Almonds. 

1% Pounds of Sifted White Sugar. 

4 Ounces of Grated French Chocolate. 

The Whites of 3 Eggs. 

I Tablespoonful of Vanilla Sugar. 

Mix all the ingredients together in 
a bowl, until they form a stiff paste. 
Then lay the macaroons out upon the 



THE PICAYUXE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



291 



wafer sheet in the form of lady fln- 
grers. Bake at a very moderate heat 
till a light brown. 

Creole Macaroons 

Macarana d la Creole 

12 Ounces of Shredded Almonds. 

4 Ounces of Ground Almonds. 

1 Pound of Sugrar. 

2 Eggrs. 4 Ounces of Wheat Flour. 

The Peel of 2 Oranges. 

Blanch and wash and dry the al- 
monds. Then grind (not pound) four 
ounces. Shred twelve ounces — ^that 
Is, after skinning, cut the almonds 
lengthwise into thin shreds by di- 
viding each almond into at least 
ftve or six long shreds, or cut them 
crosswise, and the shreds will be 
shorter. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
and the whites separately, and then 
beat them together with the sugar, 
rubbing till very light and smooth. 
Add the grated peel of two Louisiana 
oranges that have been rubbed on 
sugar, and then incorporate all the 
other ingredients. Roll the paste out 
into balls about the size of an egg. 
Place them on buttered wafer paper 
on a baking sheet, set in a moderate 
oven, and bake to a light color. 

* 

Pistachio MacarooiLS 

Maoaront atfx Pi8tache9 

4 Ounces of Bitter Almonds. 

6 Ounces of Shredded Pistachio Kernels 

or Peanuts. 

12 Ounces of Sifted Sugar. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Sugar. 

Blanch the almonds and then pound 
them well. Mix with the whites of the 
eggs till thoroughly pulverized. Then 
mix with the shredded pistachio ker- 
nels or peanuts, and stir well. Fill a 
biscuit forcer with the preparation, 
and drop the macaroons In round 
balls about the size of a hickory nut 
upon a wafer sheet of paper, and 
spread upon a baking sheet. Bake In 
a moderate oven till very slightly col- 
ored. 

Spanish Macaroons 

Macarona d VEspagnoU 

8 Ounces of Sweet Almonds. 

1 Pound of Sugar. Yolks of 12 Eggs. 

Grated Rind of 2 Oranges. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

Boll the sugar almost to a syrup, 
and then add the pounded almonds, 
and let them simmer gently for Ave 
minutes, add the flavoring and let 
them simmer five minutes longer over 
a slow fire. Stir all very carefully and 



often, and at the end of ten minutes 
add the yolks of the eggs, beaten very 
light. Then stir the paste steadily over 
a quickened fire until it becomes firm 
and compact. Remove from the fire, 
and when it is cool roll it in your 
hands, which should be slightly 
greased with oil of sweet almonds. Lay 
it all out in small cakes on wafer 
paper, spr ;ad on a baking sheet, and 
bake very rapidly. 

Croqulgnoles 

Cracknels. 

8 Ounces of Sweet Almonds. 
4 Ounces of Bitter Almonds. 

Whites of 4 Eggs. 
IH Pounds of Fine Sugar. 

Scald, skin and wash and dry the 
almonds, as directed in "Macaroons," 
and then pound them into a pulp, 
adding the whites of the eggs grad- 
ually, remembering always that they 
must be beaten to a stiff froth. Then 
work In the sugar, and you will have 
a firm paste. Drop these In small 
balls upon wafer paper, spread upon 
a baking sheet of tin or Iron, in dis- 
tinct and separate rows. Pass a little 
brush, moistened with water, lightly 
on their surface, and bake in a very 
slack oven till a very light color. 

Iced Macaroons 

Petita Foura, 

1 Pound of Sweet Almonds. 

1 Ounce of Butter. 

2 Pounds of Sifted Flour. 

The Whites of 8 Eggs. 

Royal Icing to Garnish. 

Prepare the paste as above directed, 
keeping it somewhat stiff er and firm- 
er, however. Add two whites of eggs 
of Royal Icing (see recipe), and work 
both together till thoroughly incor- 
porated. Fill the biscuit forcer, and 
push the macaroons through upon but- 
tered wafer paper, as directed. 

Petlts Fours must be baked In a 
very moderate oven. Otherwise the 
excessive heat will cause the maca- 
roons to run Into one another and 
produce a useless mass. The Royal 
Icing always needs the moderated 
oven. The Petlts Fours are then put 
In pretty plaited paper cases. 

MARCHPANE (Plain) 

Maaaepains (Bimplea) 

12 Ounces of Sweet Almonds. 
1 Ounce of Bitter Almonds. 

The Whites of 4 Eggs. 
IH Pounds of Sifted Sugar. 

Scald, skin, wash and dry the al- 
monds. Then pound them to a floi*r 



292 



THK PICAYUNE CREX>IiE COOK BOOK 



in a mortar with the whites of the 
eggs. When well pulverized, beat well. 
Mix in the sugar by pounding: it, and 
then take up the paste and put it in 
a bowl. Beat well, keeping it very 
firm. If soft, add sugar, to render 
firmer. Strew the wafer sheet, spread 
on a baking sheet, with white pulver- 
ized sugrar. Cut the massepains into 
lengths of two or three inches, and 
twist them into fancy shapes, dia- 
monds, hearts, rings, triangles, etc.. 
on the wafer sheet. Then set in the 
oven, and bake to a very light color. 



Marchpane SoaflQ^ 

Massepaina SoujfUa. 

12 Ounces of Sweet Almonds. 
1 Ounce of Bitter Almonds. 
1% Pounds of Sifted Sugar. 

1 Ounce of Vanilla Sugar. 
The Whites of 3 Esge. 

1 White of Egg Royal Icing. 

Prepare the paste exactly as above, 
and when you take it up in the bowl 
add the Royal Icing, keeping the paste 
firm. Spread the massepains upon 
wafer sheets, using only the ring 
shape, and bake in a slack oven till 
a very light brown. 



Strawberry Marchpane 

Massepains d la Praise 

1 Pound of Sweet Almonds. 

8 Ounces of Sugar. 

6 Ounces of Crushed Strawberries. 

Pound the almonds, and then pro- 
ceed as in plain Massepains, adding 
the strawberries after they have been 
strained through a sieve. 

Any kind of fruits or marmalades 
may be used in this manner for Fruit 
Marchpane. 

Air Balls 

SoufflH. 

2 Pounds of Powdered White Sugar. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

1 Ounce of Orange Flower Water. 

To two pounds of powdered sugrar 

add the whites of two eggs and one 

ounce of Orange Flower Water. Make 

of all a firm consistent paste, adding 

more sugar, if necessary. Roll out 

on a sheet of paper, sprinkled with 

sugar, and cut into little pieces, which 

you will form into balls about the 

size of a nut. Place them on a wafer 

sheet on a baking sheet about two 

inches apart so that they will not 

touch one another, should they run. 

Bake in a moderate oven. 



Almonds Sonfli^ 

8ouffl6s auw Amandes, 

1 Pound of Sweet Almonds. 

The White of 1 Egg. 

12 Ounces of Powdered Sugrar. 

Blanch, skin, wash and dry one 
pound of sweet almonds, and then cut 
them into very small pieces. Add the 
white of one egg, beaten to a thick 
froth and twelve ounces of powdered 
sugar. When well mixed drop upon 
sheets of white paper, and bake to a 
very light color in a moderate oven. 



Pistaclilo Soufll^ 

BouJBH^s aux Pistaehea 

10 Ounces of Pistachio Kernels or Pea- 
nuts. 
1% Pounds of Fine Sugar. 
Whites of 3 Eggs. 
4 Drops Essence of Roses. 
2 Whites of Eggs of Royal Icing. 
(See Recipe Royal Icing.) 

If you cannot procure the Pistachio 
Kernels use Peanuts, which are called 
"Pistaches" by the Creoles. 

Scald, skin, wash and dry the pis- 
tachios or peanuts. Pound them with 
two ounces of sugar, adding occasion- 
ally some of the whites of the eggs, 
until reduced to a pulp. Then add 
all the sugar, gradually working it 
into the paste on a marble slab, be- 
ing careful to have the slab and the 
hands very clean. Roll out paste with 
sugar to the thickness of a quarter 
of an inch on the slab. Spread the 
icing evenly over, and cut into vari- 
ous fanciful shapes. Place the cakes 
on the sheet wafer or lay on baking 
sheet, and bake in a slow heat to a 
very light color. 



Rose Sonin^ 

Soufftis d la Rose. 

2 Pounds Powdered White Sugar. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

1 Ounce of Orange Flower Water. 

A Pinch of Carmine Powder. 

To two pounds of powdered sugar 

add the whites of two eggrs and one 

ounce of Orange Flower Water and a 

little pinch of Carmine Powder. Make 

into a firm, consistent paste, adding 

more sugar, if necessary. Roll out on 

a sheet of paper, sprinkle with sugar. 

then cut the paste into little pieces. 

which must be made Into balls about 

the size of a nut Place them on a 

wafer sheet or a baking sheet all 

two full inches apart, so that they will 

not touch one another should they 

run. Bake in a moderate oven. 



THE PICAYUNE CKEOIiE COOK BOOK 



293 



Almond and Peanut Biscuit 

Biscuits auw Amandes et aux Piataches 

4 Ounces of Sweet Almonds. 

4 Ounces of Pistachio Kernels or 

Pea n u ts 

4 KggB. 8 Ounces of Powdered Sugrar. 

Blanch, peel and pound the al- 
monds and pistachio kernels or pea- 
nuts in a mortar till finely pulverized, 
adding the white of an egg to keep 
the almondn from turning oily. Beat 
the whites of the eggs to a froth, and 
then add the yolks, beaten separately 
to a cream with the sugar. Beat well 
and incorporate thoroughly. Add four 
tablespoonfuls of flour, sifted well, 
and mix well. Place In small cakes 
on wafer sheets of paper, and bake 
in a moderate oven till a very light 
color. 

Chocolate Biscuit 

Biscuits au Chocolat 

6 Fresh Eggs. 

1 Ounce of Powdered French Chocolate. 

4 Ounces of Flour. 

10 Ounces of Pulverized Sugar. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the 
sugar to a cream. Add the choco- 
late, and mix well. Then add the 
flour, alternating with the whites of 
the eggs, beaten to a stifiT froth. Add 
one tablespoonful of Vanilla Extract, 
and bake upon wafer sheets in small 
cakes to a light color. 

Cinnamon Biscuits 

Biscuits d la Canelle 

6 Fresh Eggs. 

1 Ounce of Powdered French 

Chocolate. 

4 Ounces of Flour. 

10 Ounces of Pulverized Sugar. 

Ground Cinnamon. 

1 Teaspoonful of Cinnamon Extract. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the 
cinnamon to a cream. Add the choco- 
late, and mix well. Then add the 
flour, alternating with the whites of 
the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Add 
one tablespoonful of Vanilla Extract, 
and bake upon wafer sheets In small 
cakes to a light color. 

IjenMm Biscuits 

Biscuits au Citron 

6 Fresh Eggs. 

The Rind of 1 Lemon. 

4 Ounces of Flour. 

12 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Beat the eggs and the sugar to a 
cream, add the flour gradually, and 
the juice of the lemon and citron peel, 
and beat well. Bake on paper sheets 



In the form of small wafers, very 
thinly spread. In a moderate oven to 
a light color. 

Creole Biscuits 

Biscuits d la Oriole 

4 Ounces of Grated Lemon. 

4 Ounces of Orange Flower Marmalade. 

4 Ounces of Apricot or Peach 

Marmalade. 

The Whites of 4 Eggs. 

Mix the fruits and lemon thorough- 
ly together, and then add three 
ounces of white pulverized sugar and 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth. Place the mixture in small 
cakes on white paper, and bake light- 
ly. Then cover with sugar beaten 
with the white of an egg, in nrieringue 
form, and bake to a light brown. 

Filbert Biscuits 

Biscuits aux Avelines 

4 Ounces of Sweet Almonds. 

4 Ounces of Filberts. 

The Whites of 4 Eggs. 

8 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 

Blanch, peel and pound the almond 
and Albert kernels in a mortar till 
finely pulverized, adding the white of 
an egg, to keep the almonds from 
turning oily. Beat the whites of three 
eggs to a froth, and then add the 
yolks, beaten separately to a cream 
with the sugar, Incorporate thorough- 
ly, and beat well. Add four table- 
spoonfuls of flour, sifted well, and 
mix well. Place in small cakes on 
wafer sheets of paper, and bake In 
a moderate oven till a very light color. 

Lemon Biscuits 

Biscuits au Citron. 

6 Fresh Eggs. The Rind of 1 Lemon. 
4 Ounces of Flour. 
12 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 
The Juice of 1 Lemon or 1 Tablespoon- 
ful of Lemon Extract. 

Beat the eggs and the sugar to a 

cream, add the flour gradually, and 

the Juice and rind of a lemon, and 

beat well. Bake on paper sheets in 

the form of small wafers, very thinly 

spread, in a moderate oven, to a light 

color. 

Oran^ Biscuits 

Biscuits a VOrange 

6 Fresh Eggs. 

The Peel of 1 Orange. 

4 Ounces of Flour. 

12 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 

The Juice of 1 Orange. 

Beat the eggs and sugar to a cream, 
add the flour gradually, and the Juice 



294 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



and peel of the orangre, and beat well. 
Bake on p.^per sheets, in the form of 
small wafers, very thinly spread, in 
a moderate oven, to a light color. 



Vanilla Biscuits 

BUcuUb d la VanUle 

6 Fresh Kegs. 

1 Ounce of Vanilla Sugar. 

4 Ounces of Flour. 

10 Ounces/ of Pulverized Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Extract. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the 
sugar to a cream. Add the chocolate, 
mix well. Then add the flour, alter- 
nating with the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Add one table- 
spoonful of Vanilla Extract, and bake 
upon wafer sheets in small cakes to 
a light color. 



Aniseed Biscuits 

Oroquantes Fra$oati 

8 Ounces of Flour. 

6 Ounces of Sugar. 

2 Ounces of Ground Almonds. 

2 Whole Eggs and 3 Yolks. 

1 Ounce Aniseed. 

Break the eggs into a bowl, beat 
them well, then add the sugar and 
beat all lightly: . add the almonds, 
pounded to a powder, and the aniseed. 
Beat all together till well incorporat- 
ed. Add the flour and beat thoroughly. 
Have a marble slab clean and dry. 
Roll the paste out on the slab In the 
form of a long, thick rope. Then take 
a knife and cut it into pieces about the 
.size of a small egg. Roll each be- 
tween the palms of your hands, and 
shape them into oval balls. Have a 
buttered sheet of paper on a baking 
sheet. Make a slight incision into 
each cake by pressing the back of 
the knife across the surface. Brush 
the egg over them, and sprinkle light- 
ly with granulated sugar, and bake 
in a moderate heat to a light color. 



Creole Wafers 

Oaufre8 d la Oriole 

9 Ounces 6t Flour. 

4 Ounces of Sifted Sugar. 8 Eggs. 

1 Pint Whipped Cream. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla. 

A Pinch of Salt. 

1 Tablespoon Peachstone Extract. 

Beat the sugar and yolks of the 
eggs to a cream. Add the salt, va- 
nilla, the peach flavoring, and flour, 
and beat till light. Then add the 
whites of the eggs and the cream. Mix 



all lightly together, taking great ca.re 
that all are well mixed^ Bake ver>% 
very light in wafer irons. The irons 
should be heated over a rather liot 
Are, and then greased well with a lit- 
tle clarifled butter. A large spoonful 
of batter should be poured into the 
undersheet of the wafer irons, then 
closed up, and baked to a brown color. 
Sprinkle lightly with sugar. These 
wafers are delicious, handed around 
with ices. 

Ginger Wafers 

Oaufres au Oingcmbre 

1 Larse Spoon of Ground Ginger. 

4 Ounces of Molasses. 

8 Ounces of Flour. 

8 Ounces of Sifted Sugar. 

Whites of 4 Eggs. 

1% Cups of Cream. 

1 Taolespoonful of Vanilla Sugar. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
creain and add it to the flour an<i 
milk, salt and sugar, molasses and 
ginger. Work all well together very 
light In a bowl until you have a 
^smooth batter. Add the Ginger Ex- 
tract and beat vigorously. Have 
ready the wafer irons over a very 
steady fire. Brush the irons with but- 
ter and place the wafers Inside and 
bake on both sides to a light fawn 
color. 

French yrSLtcrs 

Oaufres FraneaUcs 

8 Ounces of Flour. 

8 Ounces of Sifted Sugar. 

Whites of 4 Eggs. 

1% Cups of Cream. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Sugar. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
cream and add to the flour, milk, salt 
and sugar. Work all together very 
light in a bowl, until you have a very 
smooth batter^ Have ready the wafer 
irons and a slow, steady fire. Brush 
the irons with butter and place the 
wafers inside and bake on both sides 
to a light brown color. If desired, 
the wafers may be rolled Into fancy 
shapes. 

Spanish Wafers 

Oaufres Espagnoles 

9 Ounces of Flour. 

2 Ounces of Sifted Sugar. 

% Pint of Chocolate water. 

12 Drops of Essence of Vanilla. 2 Eggs. 

2 Gills of Cream. 

Prepare the chocolate water by dis- 
solving well two ounces of French 
chocolate in a half pint of boiling 
water. Place the sugar, vanilla, eggs 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



295 



and cream In a pan, work all vigor- 
ously into a smooth, light batter, add 
the cold Chocolate Water, beat all 
together well for ten minutes longer. 
Then bake the wafers, as directed in 
recipe for French Wafers, and curl in 
the form of cornucopias while still 
warm and easily manipulated. 



^w- " Cream Puffs 
Choum d la Crbme 

1 Cup of Flour. 

H Cup of Butter. 

A Eggs. 1 Cup of Water. 

Set the water to boil, and while 
boiling, stir in the butter. Then add 
the flour, and stir continually till the 
paste leaves the sides of the sauce- 
pan. Set the mixture to cool. When 
cool, stir in well one after another, 
three eggs, without beating them. 
After adding the last ezs* beat very 
vigorously, for about four minutes; 
then drop by tablespoonfuls on but- 
tered tins, and set in the oven to bake 
from twenty to thirty minutes. Watch 
carefully so that they will not burn. 
When cold make an opening inside, 
through the side of the paste, with 
a sharp knife, and All it with the 
following custard: 

1 Cup of Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Sugar. 

3 Eggs. 1 Tablespoon of Vanilla. 

1 Tablespoonful of Cornstarch. 

Rub the cornstarch in a little water 
and add it to the boiling milk. Let 
it boil three minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Beat the eggs, without sep- 
arating, and the sugar till light, and 
add to the boiling milk. Add the 
vanilla, stirring all well. Fill the 
cakes and set away to cool. 



Chocolate ficlalrs 

tclairB du Chocolat 

1 Cup of Flour. 1 Cup of Sugar. 

4 Eggs. H Cup of Water. 

2 Ounces of Chocolate. 

4 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 

Make a Cream Puff Paste as above. 
Put into a tube or a pastry bag and 
press out upon well-buttered tins in 
the shape of Lady Fingers. This will 
give the £clairs the right shape, mak- 
ing them about five inches long. Set 
them to bake in a quick oven twenty 
or thirty minutes. If the oven is of 
the right temperature, and the cakes 
are properly baked, they will be hoi- 
low within and very daintily crusted 



without. Fill in with a mixture made 
by melting two ounces of chocolate 
and four ounces of powdered sugar, 
and set away to cool. You may ice 
by dipping one end into the icing, and 
then setting away to dry. The ficlairs 
may be filled with preserved fruits. 
Orange Icing, Whipped Cream, or 
any Marmalade. 



Pineapple iftclalrs 

edaira d V Ananas 

1 Cup of Flour. 1 Cup of Sugar. 

4 Eggs. H Cup of Water. 

2 Ounces of Preserved Pineapple or 

Pineapple Mousse. 

Pineapple £clairs are made in the 
same manner as Chocolate £clairtj 
(see recipe), only they are filled in 
with preserved pineapple or Pineapple 
Mousse. 

Cup Cakes 

Petitt Gateaus 

1 Cup of Butter. 2 Cups of Sugar. 
4 Cups of Flour. 1 Cup of Sour Cream. 

3 E«rg8. 

1 Tablespoonful of Rose or Vanilla 

Extract. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream, add the well beaten yolks of 
the eggs, and then add the cream. 
Mix thoroughly, and sift in gradually 
the flour, beating thoroughly. Add 
the whites of th6 eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth, and the rose water. Now 
dissolve a half teaspoonful of soda in 
a little sweet milk and add, being 
careful that there are no lumps in 
the soda. Beat well for a few min- 
utes and bake at once, in small tin.« 
or cups, which you must grease well 
with butter and only half fill with the 
cake batter. 

Jelly Cakes 

Oateauw auw Oonfliuret 

1 Cup of Butter. 2 Cups of Sugar. 

4 Cups of Flour. 

1 Cup of Sour Cream. 

3 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Extract- 

3 Ounces of Currant, Grape or any Jelly 

Desired. 

Prepare the batter exactly as for 
Cup Cake or Sponge Cake, butter the 
small tins and pour in the batter in 
such thin layers as to allow the cakes 
to be just a half inch thick when 
baked. Let them bake for a few 
minutes to a light brown, and as they 
are taken from the oven set them on 
the table and spread a layer of Cur- 
rant or Grape Jelly between; then 



296 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIi£ COOK BOOK 



add alternate layers of cake and Jelly, 
reservlngr the prettiest cakes for the 
top layers. Do not put jelly on these. 
Ice or powder with sifted sugar. 

Queen Cakes 

Gatvaux d la Heine. 

1 Pound of Flour. 

4 Ounces of Sugar. 

1 Pound of Currants. 1 Pound of Butter. 

1 Teacupful of Cream. 8 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Rose Water. 

Beat the sugar and butter to a 

cream, and then add the well beaten 

yolks of the eggs. Now add the 

cream, and then one-half of the flour. 

and next one-half of the whites of the 

eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Add the 

remainder of the flour, in which there 

have been dredged the currants that 

have been well washed, cleansed and 

picked and dried. Mix thoroughly, 

and add the remainder of the whites 

and the rose water. Beat as you would 

a pound cake. Then pour Into sir all, 

buttered tins and bake immediately 

to a light brown. 

TctL Cakes 

Gateaux dc Thi 

1 Pound of Flour. 
Vi Pound of Butter. 
4 Eggs. 6 Ounces of Powdered Sugar. 
V^ Cup of Sour Milk. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream. Add the well beaten eggs, 
and incorporate thoroughly. Add the 
milk, and then gradually add the 
flour, making a light soft dough. Mix 
all well together, and roll the paste 
out very thin. Cut into rounds or 
squares, and put into a sightly but- 
tered baking pan. Bake to a bright 
yellow, and serve as needed. Some 
brush the tops of the cakes with beat- 
en eggs, and sprinkle all over with 
raisins or currants, well seeded and 
washed and dried. 



Cocoanut Fin^rs. 

BigcuiU d ta Cuill^re ait Coco. 

4 Ounces of Butter. 
4 Ounces of Sugar. 

3 Eggs. 2 Ounces of Flour. 

4 Ounces of Grated Cocoanut. 

Beat the butter, sugar and eggs to- 
gether for five minutes, blending thor- 
oughly. Then add the flour, and im- 
mediately after the grated cocoanut. 
Beat well, and have ready buttered 
tins. Divide the mixture into fingers 
of about four or five inches in length, 



bake in a moderately quick oven for 
thirty minutes, and when cool dust 
with powdered sugar. 

Lady Finders 

BiscuitH d la CuilUre. 

H Pound of Flour. 
4 Ounces of Powdered White Sugar. 

5 Eggs. 

Put the sugar and the yolks of the 
eggs into a bowl and beat thorough l^r 
till very light. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth and add the flour. 
Mix well and add immediately the 
whites of the eggs. Beat all together 
gently for a few minutes, and the 
batter ready for baking. 

Have ready a long sheet of paper, 
spread on a baking tin. With a table- 
spoon drop all the batter along the 
paper, in lengths of four or five inches, 
being careful to leave a space of fully 
an inch between the cakes; set to 
bake in a very moderate oven. The 
cakes must not spread or rise. If 
they rise, the oven is too hot, and if 
they spread, you may be sure the 
oven is too cool. Bake to a very light 
brown, for twenty minutes, in a mod- 
erate oven. 

Ginger Nuts 

Petita Gateaux au Oingemhre 

2 Pounds of Flour. 2 Eggs. 

1 Pint of Molasses. 

% Pound of Brown Sugar. 

H Pound of Butter. A Pinch of Salt. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Ginger. - 
H Teaspoonful of Soda. 

H Pint of Milk or Water. 

Beat the sugar and butter to a 
cream; work in the flour and mix 
well; add the molasses and mix well. 
Then add the milk, with which has 
been well dissolved the teaspoon of 
soda and beat well; add the ginger and 
continue working lightly till thor- 
oughly mixed. Then roll out and cut 
in various fanciful shapes and bake 
to a light brown. 



Gingi'r Snaps 

Oateaux Sect au Gingemhre 

2 Cups of Molasses. 

1 Cup of Lard or Butter. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 

H Cup of Sour Cream. 

1 Tablespoonful of Ground Ginger. 

2 Eggs. 2HTeaspoonfuls of Soda. 

Flour Sufficient to Roll Thick. 

Mix all the ingredients as above. 
only making the batter slightly stiflfer. 
cut it into fancy shapes and bake in a 
quick oven. 



THE PICAYUNE CKEOUB] COOK BOOK 



297 



Jumbles 

M^Ue-Cr6ole. 

1 Pound of Butter. 
% Pound of Flour. 4 Kgga. 

^ Pound of Suirar. 
Tablespoonful of Rose Water. 

^ Grated Nutmeg:. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream. Add the eggs, thoroughly 
beaten, and then add the Rose Water 
and the nutmeg. Gradually add the 
flour, and beat well. Beat till very 
light before adding the flour. Dust a 
paper on a baking sheet with sugar, 
Instead of flour, and roll out the paste 
to about one-eighth of an inch in 
thickness. Then use a small cutter 
with a round center, and take the 
centers out, thus forming pretty rings. 
Bake in a moderate oven till a light 
brown. Take them out and sift pow- 
dered sugar over them. 

Madeleines 

6 Eggs. % Pound of Powdered Sugar. 

Vi Pound of Sifted Flour. 

H Pound of Butter, Washed and 

Drained. 

Vi Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

Grated Rind of a Lemon. 

Beat -the butter and .sugar to a 

cream and add the yolks *of the eggs, 

the lemon rind and the vanilla, and 

beat till very, very light. Then add 

the flour, beating constantly, and the 

whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 

froth. Turn into buttered tins, and 

bake in a quick oven till a delicate 

brown. Serve cold. 

Pop-Overs 

VUement Fait 

1 Pint of Milk. 

1 Pint of Flour. 3 Eggs. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs separ- 
ately till very light and frothy. Stir 
in the unskimmed milk and the flour 
that has been twice sifted with the 
baking powder. Add the whites of 
the eggs, beaten to a stiCC froth; pour 
the mixture Into buttered cake tins; 
bake In a quick oven till a light brown, 
and serve either hot or cold. 

Anise Drops 

Oateau d*Ani9 

3 Cups of Sugar. 6 Eggs. 

1 Quart of Flour. 

^ Teaspoonful of Essence of Anise. 

Beat the sugar and eggs for about 
half an hour. Add the flour grad- 
ually, and the essence. Beat well. 



Have ready buttered sheets of tin, and 
drop the mixture from the spoon, and 
bake to a delicate brown. 

Spice Drops 

Bi9cuit9 d'/Spices. 

The Yolks of 3 Eggs. 

% Cup of Sweet MlTk. 

3 Cups of Flour. 1 Cup of Molasses. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

1 Ground Nutmeg. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 

cream. Add the molasses and the 

milk. Blend well, add the spices and 

the nutmeg and lemon extract, and 

then add the flour, sifted with the 

baking powder. Beat well for fifteen 

minutes, and then drop on tins lined 

with buttered paper. Bake In a quick 

oven to a delicate brown. 

Creole Cookies 

Biscuits d la Creole 

1 Teaspoonful each of Ground Cloves 

and Cinnamon. 

1 Teaspoonful of Lemon Extract. 

2 Cups of Powdered Susar. 

1 Cup of Sweet Milk. 

The Whites of 4 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Lemon Extract. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 
Flour Sufficient to Make a Soft Batter. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a 

cream; add the milk and the baking 

powder, and gradually add the whites 

of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 

Beat the batter hard for ten minutes. 

after adding sufficient flour to make a 

nice soft batter. Pour Into baking 

tins, and bake to a delicate brown. 

When cold Ice with Plain Icing. (See 

recipe. ) 

Lienion Cookies 

Biscuits au Citron, 

€ Eggs. 1 Cup of Butter. 
3 Cups of Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Lemon Extract. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and but- 
ter to a cream. Add the sugar, and 
beat well. Add the extract of lemon, 
and then the whites of the eggs, beat- 
on to a stiff froth. Add sufficient flour 
to make a nice dough, Just stiff enough 
to mold, and then roll thin, and bake 
In a quick oven to a very light brown. 

Mola.sscs Cookies 

Biscuits a la Milasse. 

2 Cups of Molasses. • 
1 Cup of Butter. 

2 Eggs. 2 Teaspoonfuls of Soda. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Ginger. 
H Teaspoonful of Cloves. 

Melt the molasses. Beat the butter 

and sugar to a cream, and add, mix- 



298 



THE PICAYUNE GREOUS OOOK BOOK 



ingr In the soda, dissolved In a table- 
spoonful of boUng water. Add the 
wringer and the ground cloves. Take 
off the fire, and beat till cool. Then 
add the eggs, beaten well, and flour 
sufficient to make a nice, stiff dough. 
Just stifC enough to roll. Cut into 
small cakes, and bake in a quick 
oven to a delicate brown. 



MERINGUES 

In order to make meringues prop- 
erly one should have a meringue 
board of well seasoned hard wood 
about one and a half inches thick, cut 
with rounded corners, just big enough 
to fit the oven. While baking. Mer- 
ingues must always remain soft under- 
neath. To accomplish this, dampen 
the board thoroughly with water be- 
fore placing the bands of paper upon 
it so that the Meringues may not 
cook too fast. 



Creole Meringaes 

MSrinffues d la Creole. 

1 Pint of Sifted White Sugar. 

The Whites of 12 Eggs. 
1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla. 

Beat the whites to a stiff, snowy 
froth, and then gradually add the 
sugar and vanilla, beating until the 
mixture is stiff enough to cut with a 
knife. Then cut some stout sheets 
of foolscap paper into strips measur- 
ing at least two inches in width, or, 
if you wish to make the meringues 
larger, simply place the sheet of pa- 
per, slightly buttered, on the table. 
Pick up a tablespoonful of the 
meringue mixture as nearly as pos- 
sible in the shape of an egg, 
working it towards the side of the 
bowl to give it this shape, and then 
drop slopingly from the spoon upon 
the strips of paper, always keeping 
the little heaps at least an inch apart. 
When all the rows are filled, sprinkle 
sifted sugar over them, and let them 
remain in this state for about three 
minutes. Then take hold of the strips 
at either end,, and shake lightly, to 
remove all excess of sugar. Place the 
strips in rows about one inch apart 
on the wet board or baking tin (the 
board is much better), and as soon 
as the .sugar begins to dissolve slight- 
ly on their surface, push them into 
the oven, which must be at a very 



moderate heat, and bake them a very 
light fawn color. Watch constantly, 
that they may not burn. When tl&e 
meringues are done, remove each one 
very carefully and separately from tlie 
paper. Then use a small dessert spoon« 
if you desire to fill the meringues, 
scoop out the soft white part, and. 
with the outer side of the bowl of tlie 
spoon, smooth the Interior of the mer- 
ingues. Then place them with tlie 
rounded side downward on the baK- 
ing tin in the oven to dry for a fe^' 
minutes. When thoroughly crisp, witli- 
out browning, place them between 
sheets of paper in a dry place. When 
using meringues for desserts, etc., gar- 
nish the interior with whipped cream, 
beaten to a stiff froth, flavored witli 
vanilla, orange, lemon, or orans'e 
flower water; stick the two halves to- 
gether lightly and serve. Meringues 
may be kept for some time in their 
dry shell state, and filled when ready 
to use. In making them for imme- 
diate family use, simply drop the mix- 
ture by spoonfuls on buttered paper, 
dust with the sugar, wait for three 
minutes, fan or blow off all excess of 
sugar, and then place them tn a very 
moderate oven and bake to a light 
brown. When dry and cool, carefully 
remove the meringues from the paper, 
brush the bottoms slightly with the 
white of an egg, beaten to a froth, 
stick two meringues together, put 
away to dry, and serve when needed. 



Cream-Ioed Meringues 

Meringue9 d 2a Cr^me Qlacie. 

1 Pound of Sifted White Sugar. 

The Whites of 12 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla 

Essence. 

3 Ounces of Stiff Whipped Cream. 

H Cup of Transparent Icing. 

Cream-Iced Meringues should be 
made much smaller than the ordinary 
Meringues — ^about the size of a bird's 
egg. Proceed as above, and fill with 
stiff, whipped cream, taking great 
care when filling that none of the 
cream oozes out from between thu 
two halves of the Meringues after 
they have been stuck together. If 
it should, wipe it off very carefully. 
When well filled,, hold each Meringue 
separately on a silver fork, and "dip 
them all over in '"Transparent Icing" 
(see recipe), and let them dry. These 
Meringues are delicious desserts. 



TH£ PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



299 



Cream-Iced Meringvies Witli Preserves 

MerinffUM OlacieM aum Confiturew, 

1 Pound of Sifted White Sugar. 

The Whites of 12 Egrss. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Essence. 

8 Ounces of Currant, Oranflre or Any 

Preserves. 
yk Cup of Transparent Icins. 

Prepare as in Meringues & la Creole, 
or as above, only spread some pre- 
serves thinly inside the Meringues be- 
fore garnishing them with the cream, 
and then ice with Transparent Icing. 
(See recipe Transparent Icing.) 

Biscuits With Preserves 

Bi8cuiU QlaciB aua Confiture; 

9 Eggs. 1 Pound of White Pulverized 

Sugar. 

H Pound of Flour. 

.The Juice of 1 Liemon. 

1 Cup of Jam of' Any Kind Desired. 

Make a strong cake or cup cake 
(see recipes), and bake on a baking 
sheet about three-quarters of an inch 
in thickness. When cold, cut up into 
fanciful shapes, trim the edges neatly 
with a very sharp knife, being care- 
ful to brush off any last particle of 
crumbs that may adhere; carefully 



spread the upper part and sides of 
the biscuit with apricot, peach, rasp- 
berry or any Jam. Then hold one at 
a time on a silver fork, very care- 
fully, and with a spoon pour Trans- 
parent Chocolate Icing, around the 
sides and over the surface of the bis- 
cuit. Then carefully lay it upon a 
wire tray, resting upon a baking 
sheet. Dry the biscuits in a very n\od- 
erate oven for about five minutes. 

Marbled Glacis 

DUcuiU PanachCt aux Confitures. 

9 Eggs. 1 Pound of White Pulverized 

Sugar. ^ Pound of Flour. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

1 Cup of Mixed Preserved Fruits. 

Prepare the cakes as directed in the 
preceding recipe. Then place them on 
the baking sheet. Drop different-sized 
bits of fine preserves, orange, apricot, 
damson, red currant, etc., on the bis- 
cuits, spreading smoothly, so as to 
form a beautifully marbled pattern. 
Then cut out the cakes in any fanciful 
design. Proceed as above to cover 
with Transparent Icing, and dry in a 
moderate oven for five minutes. 



CHAPTER XL 



ICING S fO^ CAKES 



J 



Olacia pour Odteauw. 



Read carefully the directions given 
for icing cakes in the beginning of the 
chapter on "Cakes." (See recipe.) 
Then proceed to make icings accord- 
ing to taste, as follows: 

Plain Icing 

OlacS. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lemon Juice. 

1 Pound of White Pulverized Sugar. 

Essence of Rose, Orange or Lemon. 

Beat the whites of the eggs, and 
sift in gradually the sugar, beating all 
the while, using good judgment as to 
sufficient quantity, and adding in the 
beginning a tablespoonful of Rose or 
Lemon Essence or Orange Flower 
Water. Beat very light, till almost 
stiff enough to stand alone. Put in 
another bowl a little lemon Juice, and 
begin to lay on the icing in a thin 



coat with a knife, occasionally dipping 
the knife into the lemon Juice, to 
make a nice, smooth icing. When the 
cake is covered over with this coat, set 
it in the oven or in the sun to harden, 
and it will be ready for the next coat, 
which be similarly put on. This coat 
will be much smoother and whiter 
than the first. If you wish to make 
ornamental icing it will be necessary 
to have piping tubes. (See Generai 
Directions for Icing.) 

Almond Icing 

OlacS auw Amandes. 

3 Cups of Sugar. 1 Pound of 

Almonds, Blanched and Pounded to 

a Paste. The Whites of 3 Eggs. 

Beat the eggs, stir in the almonds 
and sugrar, and then proceed to ice 
according to general directions. (See 
above or recipe.) 



300 



THE picayune: CREOIiE CX)OK BOOK 



Chocolate Icing: 

Olac^ au Chocolat. 
2 Ounces of Chocolate. 

2 Cups of Suffar. 

The Whites of 3 Egrsrs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla Extract. 

Melt two ounces of chocolate In a 
little boiling water. Add two cups 
sugar and stir till smooth. Stir in the 
well-beaten whites of three eggs and 
one teaspoonful of Vanilla Extract, 
and proceed as in Plain Icing. (See 
recipe. ) 

Orange or Lemon Idng 

Olac€ d VOrange on au Citron. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

1 Pound of White Pulverized Sugar. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon or Orange. 

For Lemon and Orange Icings make 

a Plain Icing, stirring in at the start 

the Juice of one lemon or one orange, 

and proceeding as in Plain Icing. (See 

recipe. ) 

Oran^ Transparent Icing 

Olaci Transparente d VOranffe. 

yk Pound of Fine White Susar. 

Half the White of 1 Egg. 

The Peel of 1 Orange. 

1 Tablespoonful of Orange Essence or 

Orange Juice. 

An Orange Transparent Icing is 
made by flavoring a plain icing with a 
little sugar, rubbed well against the 
rind of the orange. 

Colored Transparent Icing 

QUic6 Transparente d la Ro»e, d la 

Violette, Etc, 

y^ Pound of Fine White Sugar. 

Half the White of 1 Egg. 

Flavoring and Coloring According to 

Taste. 

A Green Icing is made by using 
Extract of Spinach and flavoring with 
Oedratl; a Rose Pink by flavoring with 
the Essential Oil of Roses and adding 
a few drops of Cochineal; and a Vio- 
let Icing by flavoring with Syrup of 
Violet. Proceed as in Plain Icing. 

Water Icing 

Olac6 d VEau. 

2 Cups of Sugar. 

A Pinch of Cream of Tartar. 

Tablespoonful of Vanilla, Peach or 

Strawberry Extract. 
Take two cups of sugar and a small 
pinch of Cream of Tartar. Stir with 
Just enough water to make a thick 
paste, and Flavor with Peach or 
Strawberry Extract. If Strawberry is 
used, add a teaspoonful of Cochineal. 
Beat well, and, if not stiff enough, add 
more sugar, and proceed as in Plain 
Icing. 



FROSTING 

Qlac6 Neigeute. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 
2 Cups of Pulverized Sus^r* 
yk Cup of Cornstarch. 
4 Tablespoonfuls of Millc 
Take the whites of two eg'grs* two 
cups of pulverized sugar, and one- 
half a cup of cornstarch. Blend the 
cornstarch with a little milk, to make 
a thick paste, add the whites of the 
eggs, beaten light, and the pulverised 
sugar. Beat all to a stiff frotli, and 
frost the cake while hot. 

Cream Frosting 

Olac4 Neiffeuse d la Crhme. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

2 Cups of Pulverized Sugar. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Rich Cream. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Extract. 

For a Cream Frosting, proceed 
exactly as above, only omit the corn- 
starch, and add an equal measure of 
rich cream, and flavor with Vanilla 
Extract. Boil the cream befor^ using. 

Orgeat Paste or Icing 

Orgeate, 

1 Pound of Peeled Almonds. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Orange Flower 

Water. 

To one pound of skinned almonds 
add one pound of sugar. Pound as 
directed to a pulp in a mortar, occa- 
sionally adding a few drops of water 
to prevent the almonds from running 
to oil. Use Orange Flower Water. 
Add fine white sifted sugar till you 
have sufficient to make a paste, and 
work till well-amalgamated and elas- 
tic. It will now be ready for any use 
designated in this book. 

Royal Icing 

Qlac€ Royale. 

The Whites of 2 Esgs. 

1 Pound of Fine White Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lemon Juice. 

1 Tablespoonful of Any Kind of Essence 

Desired. 

A Royal Icing is made of the flnesit 
kind of white loaf sugar, sifted and 
mixed or worked into a paste with 
the whites of the eggs and lemon 
Juice in the proportions given for the 
Plain Icing, only the paste must be 
softer. Flavor with any kind of 

essence, according to taste. This 
icing is used to produce fanciful ef- 
fects. It is not necessary to purchase 
ornamental piping tubes. With a lit- 
tle taste and dexterity a piece of white 
writing paper, made into the shap* 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



301 



of a cornet, may be utilized. Dry the 
paper, stick it together and rub well 
with the white of an egg, to make it 
stiff. Allow at the pointed end only 
a half inch opening:, and with a little 
practice, the prettiest effects may be 
produced by any amateur. 

Transparent Icin^ 

Olac^ Transparente. 

% Pound of Fine White Sugrar. 
Half of the White of 1 Kgg. 
The Juice of Half a Lemon. 

Take a half pound of the finest 
white clarified sugar, and clarify again 
by boiling it with half of the white 
of an egg, beaten to* a stiff froth. 
Clear off the skum as it rises, and 



continue skimming till the sugar is 
perfectly clear. Then add to it half 
a gill of clarified sugar, boiled to a 
syrup, and to which there has been 
added the juice of half a lemon. Whip 
it to the proper consistency. Then 
stir the sugar well together, rubbing 
up and against the sides of the pan 
till it acquires an opaline appearance. 
Then with a silver fork, lift up each 
of the cakes to be iced, and dip in the 
sugar; or else hold them on a fork 
and with a spoon pour the icing over. 
Take another fork, lift off the cake 
and place it on the baking sheet, and 
so on till all the small cakes are iced. 
Then dry in the sun or in the oven 
for about ten minutes. 



CHAPTER XLI 



CREAMS BISCUIT, SBERffilS 




Dc8 Cri^mcB d la Olace, HUruits OlacC'va, Sorbets. 



In making Ice creams, always use 
the best, fresh, sweet, rich milk or 
cream. Sweeten it with finely pow- 
dered sugar, and flavor with the best 
quality of extracts, such as lemon, va- 
nilla etc. . These are the simplest 
means of flavoring. Sometimes, how- 
ever, the Creoles boil the Vanilla 
Bean until the aroma is extracted, 
and when cool add it to the sweetened 
cream. Keep the cream in the refrig- 
erator till ready to freeze. 

How to Make Ice Cream 

Some persons boil the milk and 
eggs, thus making a custard ice cream. 
This is the cream that the Creoles 
prefer. But there are others who 
leave the cream unboiled. In either 
case it is absolutely necessary to have 
rich, fresh cream. 

Ice Cream 

Crdme d la Qlaoe, 

1 Quart of Milk or Cream. 6 '!^ggE, 

% Pound of Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Any Extract. 

Put the milk or cream on to boil. 
If cream is used, six eggs will be suf- 
ficient ; if milk, use eight. Beat the 
yolks ot the eggs and the sugar very 



light, and then beat the whites to a 
stiff froth. I»our the boiling milk 
over the sugar and the yolks, stirring 
it all the while. Then add the whites, 
mixing thoroughly, and two table- 
spoonfuls of extract of either Lemon 
or Vanilla. Set to cool, and then turn 
into the freezer, pack and stir around 
in the ice for about ten minutes, and 
finish as in recipe for making and 
freezing cream. (See recipe.) 

How to PYeeze the Cream 

Before putting the mixture into the 
freezer, see that the dasher is right 
.side up and that everything is in 
good condition and well adjusted. 
Have the ice pounded, and a sufllcient 
quantity of rock salt. Then put in 
the can and fill around it with alter- 
nate layers of ice and salt till the 
bucket is full. Now turn the crank 
slowly until it will not move any 
more. Let off the water that has ac- 
cumulated, refill with ice, and then 
cover with a thick piece of bag- 
ging or carpet. Then let it stand 
aside in a cool place to ripen, till you 
are ready to serve. 

Fruit puddings and custards may 
be frozen in the same manner. 



302 



THE PICAYUXE CREOIiE GOOK BOOK 



How to Mold Ice Cream 

When ready to serve, If you wish 
to take the cream out of the mold 
whole, have ready a dish with a flat 
bottom, and a pan of hot water. Then 
roll the tin mold for an instant only 
in the water, and wipe it quickly, 
holding the top downwards. Remove 
the lid, and quickly turn it right side 
up, setting the plate on the table 
and removing the mold carefully. Or 
you may wring out cloths in scalding 
water and wrap them an instant 
around the mold, and proceed as 
above. This is a very delicate way 
of serving the cream, and allows it 
to be brought to the table in all its 
beauty Hind perfection of molding. 

The cream may also be- molded into 
a single brick by having a brick 
shaped mold and filling it with the 
cream. When well filled, press down 
closely and cover the mold carefully, 
so that no pieces of salt or any salt 
water can enter it or penetrate it. Fill 
the bottom of a pail with ice, mingled 
with rock salt; lay the mold upon it, 
cover it deeply with cracked ice and 
salt mixed, and let it stand for about 
half an hour. When frozen, set the 
mold in luke warm water, wash off all 
ice and salt, lift the mold out gently, 
uncover, turn into a dessert dish and 
serve immediately. 

Apricot Ice Cream 

Crhne Olac6e aux Ahricott, 

1 Quart of Cream. 

% Pound of Sugar. 

X Quart of Apricots or 1 Pint Can. 

Prepare th^ cream as in recipe Ice 

Cream (see recipe), and let cool for 

half an hour. Pare and mash the 

apricots, being careful to remove the 

stones. Then stir them into the 

cream, mixing thoroughly for five 

minutes, till all are well dissolved 

together. Then strain through a fine 

sieve into a freezer, pressing the fruit 

down with a wooden spoon; and when 

well packed proceed to freeze as in 

the directions for Plain Ice Cream. 

(See directions.) 

Banana Ice Cream 

Crime Olade auw Bananet, 

6 Large Bananas. 

1 Quart of Cream. 

The Yolks of 3 Eggs. 

% Pound of Sugar. 

Peel the bananas and slice and 
mash them. Boil the milk, and add 



the sugar, stirring till well dissolved. 
Then add the yolks of the eggs, l>ea.ten 
very light, and let cool for an bour. 
Stir in the bananas, which have been 
already well beaten to a smooth 
paste, and proceed as directed above. 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

Orhne au Chocolat, 

1 Quart of Milk or Cream. 
hk Pound of the Best French Chocolate. 
1-4 Pound of Sugar. 
1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Extract. 

Boil the milk, and add to it a lialf 
pound of the best French chocolate, 
grated. Let it boil and thicken, beat- 
ing till smooth'. Add a quarter of a 
pound of white pulverized sugar. 
When cool add half a quart of creann 
and the Vanilla Extract. Pour Into 
the freezer, after mixing well, and 
proceed as in directions for making 
and freezing cream. 

Chocolate Ice Cream With E^gs 

Crime Olac€e au Chocolat. 

4 Ounces of Chocolate. 

6 Ounces of Sugar. 1 Pint of Milk. 

8 Tolks of Eggs. 

1 Pint of Whipped Cream. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla. 

Dissolve the chocolate in a little 
water, and add it to the boiling milk, 
then pour this over the eggs and 
sugar, which have been well beaten 
to a thick cream. Add the Vanilla, 
and set to cool. Then add the remain- 
ing cream, and freeze as directed. 

Coffee Ice Cream 

Crime Olacie au Caff. 

1 Pint of Cream. 

1 Pint of New Milk. 

6 Eggs. Pound of Sugar. 

% Cup of Strong Caf4 Nolr 

(Black Coffee). 

Boil the milk. Take from the fire. 
Whip the cream to a stiff froth. Add 
the sugar and yolks of eggs, thorough- 
ly beaten, to the milk and coffee, 
sweetening to taste. Set aside to cool, 
and add the whipped cream, and pro- 
ceed to freeze as directed. 

King of the Carnival Ice Cream 

Crime d la Qlace au Rex. 

1 Quart of Milk or Cream. 6 Esgs. 
1 Pound of Sugar. 
1 Tablespoonful Each of the Coloring 
Extracts Given Below. 

This cream was originated by a fa- 
mous New Orleans confisseur In honor 
of "Rex." the King of the world- 
famed New Orleans Carnivals. It was 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



303 



first served at a Carnival luncheon in 
St. Charles avenue. The King's colors 
are purple, green and gold. The 
cream represents these colors, and is 
made according to the following di- 
rections: 

Make a Plain Ice Cream. Divide 
into three distinct and equal portions. 
Color one with Spinach Greenery, to 
obtain the green effect; flavor another 
with Essen(;e of Vanilla, and color 
with orange juice or a bit of saffron, 
to obtain the golden yellow; and tint 
the third with a deep Cr^me de Vio- 
lette, for the royal purple. Freeze In 
separate molds. Then pack into one 
freezer, and when frozen remove, ac- 
cording to direction for taking ice 
cream whole from a mold. Cut in 
slices and serve. Molds now come 
made 4n the shape of tiny flags, and 
the effect suggests at once Rex and 
his merry reign. 

Lemon Ice Cream 

Cr^ie Olacie au Citron. 

1 Quart of Cream or Milk. 

6 Eggs. ^' Pound of Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lemon Extract. 

Put the milk or cream on to boil. 

If cream is used, six eggs will be suflH- 

cient; if milk, use eight. Beat the 

yolks of the eggs*and the sugar very 

light, and then beat the whites to a 

stiff froth. Take the milk off the 

Are, and po.r it over the sugar and 

yolks, stirring all the while. Then 

add the whites, mixing thoroughly, 

and two tablespoonfuls of extract of 

lemon. Set to cool, and then turn into 

the freezer, pack, freeze for about ten 

minutes, and flnish as in recipe for 

making and freezing Cream. (See 

recipe. ) 

Mandarin Ice Cream 

Cr^me Olacie d VOranges. 

1 Quart of Cream or Milk. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

The Yolks of 6 Eggs. 

The Grated Ulnd of 2 Mandarins. 

The Juice of 1 Dozen, With the Grated 

Pulp. 

Peel the mandarins, grate quite flne 

the thin rind of two, extract the 

Juice of twelve, and, after taking out 

the seeds, mash the inner fruit or 

pulp through a sieve. Put the milk 

or cream on to boil. Beat the yolks 

of eggs and sugar till very light, and 

beat the whites to a stiff froth. 

Pour the boiling milk over the sugar 

and yolks, stirring all the while. Set 



to cool, then add the whites of the 
<)ggs, and Anally the grated n^andarin 
pulp, rind and Juice, and mix well. 
Turn all into a freezer and proceed 
as in the directions given for making 
Ice Cream. (See rfecipe. ) 

Xeapolitan Ice Cream 

Crdme Neapolitaine. 

1 Pint of Vanilla Cream. 

1 Pint of Pistache Ice Cream. 

1 Pint of Strawberry or Raspberry 

Cream. 

Prepare the ice cream according to 
recipes. (See recipes.) Have at hand 
a brick form or mold that will hold 
three pints. Lay at the bottom of 
the mold Pistache Ice Cream; place 
over this the Vanilla Cream, and on 
top of this the Raspberry or Straw- 
berry Cream. Cover the mold tightly 
and set to free- j for two hours. Then 
plunge the mold into warm water, 
wash off all the salt and dry. Then 
carefully uncbver and unmold the 
cream in a cold dessert dish or on a 
piece of paper. Take a long, sharp 
knife, dip into warm water, cut the 
brick of cream through the center, 
and then divide the pieces into three 
or four parts, each being perfectly 
square. Arrange daintily on a cold 
dessert dish, and serve immediately. 

Nectarine Ice Cream 

Cr^me Olac6e aux Nectarines. 

1 Quart of Cream or Milk. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

1 Quart of Nectarines or 1 Pint Can. 

6 Eggs. 

Peel the nectarines, stone and mash 
well, with half of the sugar. Let them 
stand for an hour or more, and press 
through a sieve. Set the milk to boil; 
beat the yolks of the eggs and the 
remaining half of the sugar to a 
cream, and beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth. Pour the hot milk 
over the sugar and yolks, stirring all 
the while. Set to cool. Then add the 
mashed nectarines and sugar; mix all 
thoroughly, turn into freezer and pro- 
ceed as in the general directions for 
making Ice Cream. (See recipe.) 

Nougat Ice Cream 

Cr^e Olacie au Nougat. 

1 Pint of Nougat. 

S Eggs. % Pound of Sugar. 

1 Quart of Cream. 

3 DroDs of Essence of Peach Kernels. 

Make some Nougat (see recipe), 
u.sing about a pint Bruise and mash 



304 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



it, and blend with one ^iH of orange 
flower water. Add to this the sugar 
and the yolks of the eggs, beaten to 
a thick cream. Set the milk to boil. 
Then add to it the above Ingredients, 
stirring well, and adding at the end 
the Essence of Peach Kernels, and 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth. Then freeze in the manner 
above directed. I^eft-over Nougat 
may be utilized in this way. 

Cranio* Ice Cream 

Crdmc QlacPc 4 VOrange, 

1 Quart of Cream. 

1 Found of Sugar. 

The Juice of 12 Oranges. 

The Grated Rind of 2 Oranges, Rubbed 

on Sugar. 

Boil the milk or cream in a farina 
boiler, and while hot pour it over the 
yolks of the eggs, which have been 
beaten to a thick cream, with the su- 
gar; add the orange Juice and rind. 
Stir till all begins to thicken. Then 
add the whites of the eggs, beaten 
to a stiff froth. Set to cool. Turn 
into the freezer, and proceed in the 
nianner above indicated. 

Orange Flower Ice Cream 

Crhne Olacf'c d la Flcur d'Orangv. 

1 Quart of Cream. % Pound of Sugar. 

1 Ounce of Candied Oranse Flowers. 

The Tolks of 3 Eggs. 

Bruise the orange flowers, and mix 

and stir them with the boiling milk. 

Then take from the Are, and add the 

sugar, and dissolve well, and then the 

beaten yolks of the eggs, mix well. 

Freeze in the manner above indicated. 

Peach lee Cream 

Creme. (JUict'c. aux Pfichcs. 

8 Ripe Peaches or 1 Can. 

6 Eggs. 1 Pound of Sugar. 

1 Quart of Cream. 

Put the milk to boil, and when hot 
take from the Are, and add the yolks 
of the eggs, which have been beaten 
to a thick cream with the powdered 
sugar. Put aside to cool for thirty 
minutes. Then add the peaches, 
which have been all pared, stoned 
and mashed, and stir them quickly 
into the cream. Now add the whites 
of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Mix all thoroughly together and pour 
into the freezer. Turn the crank rap- 
idly for a few minutes, till thorough- 
ly mixed, and then cover and let stand 
for two hours. 



Pistaehlo lec Cream 

Crime Qlacie auw PUtaches. 

1 Quart of Milk or Cream. 

% Pound of Sugar. 

^ Pound of Shelled, Scalded and 

Cleaned Pistachio Nuts. 

The Yolks of 3 EggB. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Spinach Greening. 

or 5 Drops of Spinach Green. 

1 Tablespoonful of Orange Flower 

Water or Almond Extract. 

Wash and boil the Spinach for Ave 
minutes, and then drain* through a 
colander. Reduce it to a pulp, and 
then squeeze out the juice through 
a piece of Ane muslin. One quart of 
Spinach will furnish the proper 
amount of Juice when boiled and 
squeezed. Then wash, scald, clean 
and pulverize the pistachios to a pulp. 
Set half the milk to boil in a farina 
boiler. Add the sugar, and stir till 
well dissolved. Take off and add the 
yolks of the eggs, beaten very, very 
light. Stir and add the nuts, and stir 
till it thickens. Then stand away to 
cool. When cool, add the Aavoring 
extract and the remaining cream, re- 
serving a small portion to work into 
the Spinach which is now added, and 
blend smoothly. When the color is a 
light green turn into a freezer and 
proceed as directed above. 



Pineapple Ice Cream 

Crdme Olacie d VAnatutM, 

1 Large, Ripe Pineapple. 

1 Quart of Cream or Milk. 6 Bggs. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Peel the pineapple, and then grate 
and pound and mash the pulp with 
one-half of the sugar. Press through 
a sieve. Put the milk or cream on to 
boil. Beat the yolks of the eggs and 
the remaining half of the sugar ven* 
light, and then beat the whites to a 
stiff froth. Pour the hot milk over the 
sugar and yolks, stirring all the while. 
Then add the whites, mixing thorough- 
ly. Add the pineapple and Juice and 
mix well. Set to cool and then turn 
into the freezer, pack and proceed at 
in the recipe for making and f reeling 
Cream. 

Pineapple Mousse 

Mouaae d VAnana*. 

1 Pineapple. 
3 Tablespoonfuls of Vanilla. 

1 Quart of Cream. 
1 Pound of Powdered Sugar. 

Peel the pineapple, arid cut one- 
half into slices. Lay them in a bowl 



TH£ PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



305 



and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 
Cover and set aside till needed. Orate 
the remainder of the pineapple into 
an eathen vessel, add sugar sufficient 
to sweeten to taste, and pour in 
the vanilla. Then mix carefully with 
the cream, which should be at least 
three times the weight of the pine- 
apple. Turn all into an ice cream 
mold and proceed to freeze as directed 
above. Serve with slices of pine- 
apple and pour a little syrup around 
the frozen cream, which should be 
turned out of the mold according to 
directions given above. 



Raspberry loe Cream 

Crtme Olac6e aux Framboitea. 

1 Quart of Cream. 
1 Quart of Raspberries or 2 Table- 
spoonfuls of Raspberry Extract. 
1 Pound of Sugar. 
The Yolks of 6 Eggs. 
The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Set the milk to boil, add the sugar, 
and when well dissolved take from the 
fire, add the eggs, well beaten to a 
cream, and set aside to cool. Then, 
when cool, add the remaining half of 
the sugar, which has been well blend- 
ed with the berries, which must be 
mashed well, allow it to stand for sev- 
eral hours, and then press through a 
sieve. Mix well with the milk, add the 
lemon juice, turn into the freezer, and 
freeze as above directed. If the ber- 
ries are too pale to color the cream 
effectively, add a few drops of Rasp- 
berry Extract. When raspberries are 
not in season, use two tablespoonfuls 
of Raspberry Extract, and proceed as 
in recipe for Vanilla Cream. 



Rice Ice Cream 

Ordme Olac4e au Ris. 

2% Pints of Milk. % Pound of Sugar. 

The Yolks of 3 EgKs. 

4 Ounces of Boiled Rice. 

% Pint of Milk of Almonds. 

A Compote of 6 Oranges. 

Boil the rice in the milk till very 
soft. Do not mash. Set the pint and 
a half extra milk to boll, and add 
the rice and the milk of almonds and 
the sugar and eggs, beaten to a cream. 
Make a custard. Take from the flre. 
Set to freeze as above directed, and 
when cold turn out of the mold (see 
recipe), place in a dish, garnish 
around with the oranges (see Com- 
pote of Oranges), pour the syrup over 
all, and serve. 



Rose Ice Cream 

Crime Glac€e d la Roae, 

1 Quart of Cream. 

1 Found of Sugar. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Red Rose Extract 

and Vanilla. 

Prepare exactly as in recipe for Ice 
Cream, using the same ingredients, 
and flavor with two tablespoonfuls of 
Red Rose Extract and Vanilla. 



Strawberry Ice Cream 

Crime Olacie aux Fraiaes. 

1 Quart of Cream. 
1 Quart of Strawberries or 2 Table- 
spoonfuls of Strawberry Extract. 
1 Pound of Sugar. 
6 Eggs. The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Set the milk the boil; take from the 

flre, add the yolks of the eggs, well 

beaten to a cream, with half the 

»ugar, and set aside to cool. Then, 

add the remaining half of the sugar, 

which has been well blended with the 

strawberries, mash all well, and allow 

it to stand for several hours and then 

press through a sieve. Mix well with 

the milk, add the lemon Juice and the 

whites of the eggs, beaten to a stlflt 

froth; turn into the freezer, and freeze 

as above directed. When strawberries 

are not in season, flavor the cream 

with the Extract. 



TutU-Frutti - 

1 Pint of Vanilla Ice Cream. 

% Pint of Strawberry • Ice Cream. 

% Pint of Lemon Sherbet. 

2 Ounces of Candled Cherries. 

1 Ounce of Candied Orange. 

2 Ounces of Candied Apricots. 
1 Ounce of Candled Currants. 

Prepare the Vanilla and Strawberry 
Ice Cream and the Lemon Sherbet 
according to recipes given (see rec- 
ipes). Have ready six or eight tutti- 
frutti molds. Cut the candied cher- 
ries into halves or quarters, and the 
candled oranges and apricots into 
small pieces. Open the tutti-frutti 
molds and fill in the bottom with 
Vanilla Cream. Lay side by side in 
the covers of the molds a spoonful of 
Lemon Sherbet and a spoonful of 
Strawberry Cream; mix the candied 
fruits together and divide them into 
equal parts, and lay these on the Va- 
nilla Cream in the bottom of the 
molds. Then press the covers tightly 
on each mold, and after seeing that 
they are firmly closed, lay the mold 
In a pall, the bottom of which has 
been filled with broken ice and rock 



306 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE 



salt. Cover the mold with more rock 
salt and ice and proceed to lay the 
molds one over the other, alternating 
with the ice and rock salt. When all 
are covered, fill in the pail with 
broken pieces of ice and rock salt, 
cover and let freeze for one hour. 
Have ready some warm water and six 
or eight very cold dessert plates cov- 
ered with dainty paper cases fanciful- 
ly cut. Lift up the molds gently and 
wash them off very quickly with the 
warm water, being careful to see that 
no salt adheres. Then open the molds 
and lay the tutti-frutti in the paper 
cases and serve immediately. 



Creole Tuttl-Fnittl 

Tutti-Frutti d la Creole. 

1 Quart of Orange Sherbet. (See 

Recipe.) 

>4 Pint of Cherries. Seeded. 

V4 Pint of Stoned Apricots. 

Vk Pint of Stoned Peaches. 

% Pint of i<'igs. V4 Pint of Pineapple. 

^ Pint of Watermelon. 

Cut the watermelon and the pine- 
apple into very small square lozenges, 
first seeding the watermelon. Cut the 
rest of the fruits very fine. Then 
put a layer of the watermelon into 
the freezer, and sprinkle generously 
with white powdered sugar. Then put 
in a layer of the mixed fruits, sugar 
thickly, pour in a little of the sher- 
bet, and proceed in this way until 
the whole form is nearly filled with 
the mixture in alternate layers. Then 
set in a double boiler Just long enough 
for the sugar to melt. Take out, pour 
over the orange sherbet, close tightly, 
and set to freeze. 



Vanilla Ice Cream 

Crhne Qlacie d la Vanille. 

1 Quart of Milk or Cream. 
6 Eggs. % Pound of Sugar. 
2 Teaspoonfuls of Any Extract. 
Put the milk or cream on to boil. 
If cream is used, six eggs will be 
sufficient; if milk, use eight. Beat 
the yolks of the eggs and the sugar 
very light, and then beat the whites 
to a stiff froth. Pour the hot milk over 
the sugar and yolks, stirring all the 
while. Then add the whites, mixing 
thoroughly, and two tablespoonfuls of 
extract of either Lemon or Vanilla. 
Set to cool, and then turn Into the 
freezer, pack, and finish as in recipe 
for making and freezing cream. (See 
recipe. ) 



Variegated Ice 

Cr^me PanacMe. 

1 Quart of Milk or Cream. 
1 Pound of Sugar. 6 BZs^a. 
1 Teaspoonful of Essence of Str&Tv^bernr. 
1 Teaspoonful of Essence or \ra.Eillla. 

1 Teaspoonful of Chocolate. 

1 Teaspoonful of Cream of Violets. 

1 Teaspoonful of Spinach Greenery. 

Prepare a Plain Ice Cream. (See 
recipe "Ice Cream.") Divide It into 
portions. Color one with Essence of 
Strawberry, another with Spinach 
Greenery, another with Vanilla, to ob- 
tain yellow, another with Cr^me de 
Violettes, another with chocolate, etc. 
Freeze all these in separate molds; 
that may be bought especially for tliis 
purpose. When frozen, take from, the 
individual molds and pack neatly in a 
large ice cream freezer, so that the 
colors may blend well. Freeze asrain. 
and then remove from the mold ac- 
cording to directions given above for 
unmolding. Cut into slices and serve. 
The effect of the various colors is very 
pretty. 

BISCUITS GIiAC£S 

1 Quart of Cream. 

The Yolks of 6 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla, 

% Pound of Sugar. 

Set one-half the cream to boil. Beat 
the yolks of the eggs and the sugar 
till they are Exceedingly light. Take 
the boiling milk from the fire, and 
stir in, while still very hot, the sugar 
and eggs. Then set to cool. Now 
freeze just as Ice Cream. In the 
meantime, whip the remaining cream 
to a very thick froth, as in Whipped 
Cream & la Vanille, adding the Va- 
nilla, and stir it into the freezing 
cream. Cut paper cases, or use the 
specially prepared molds that come 
for Biscuit Qlac6, and fill with the 
mixture, and then heap the tops an 
Inch high with a little of the cream, 
which has been colored with a teas- 
poonful of Strawberry Extract and a 
few drops of Cochineal. Pack these 
molds or cases in salt, and freeze for 
two hours longer, until they can be 
turned out whole. 

Biscuits Glac6$, Creole Style 

Biscuits Glacis d la Criole. 
1 Pint of Milk. The Yolks of 6 Eggs 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 
. ,« ^, Pound of Pulverized Su?ar. 
1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla or Lemon 

Extract. 

Set one pint of milk to boil. Beat 
the yolks of six eggs with a half 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



307 



pound of white pulverized sugar until 
ligrht. Stir In the milk. Take from 
the Are, and let cool. Flavor with va- 
nilla and freeze. Whip one pint of 
cream to a stiff froth, and stir in. 
Fill molds or fancy paper^ cases with 
the mixture, pack in salt and ice for 
two hours, and serve. 

BOMBE GIiAC£E 

1 Pint of Milk. 

The Yolks of 6 Eggs. 

^ Pound of White Pulverized Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vanilla Extract. 

% Pint of Strawberry Sherbet. 

For this purpose you must have 
Bombe Glac§e molds. Line the molds 
about three-fourths of an inch thick 
with Strawberry Water Ice (see rec- 
ipe), and then fill the center with the 
Biscuit Glac6, prepared as above. The 
biscuit must be freezing cold when 
put into the mold. Pack in salt and 
ice, and set to freeze several hours. 

SHERBETS 

Borbet8, 
Sherbets are delightful water Ices, 
differing from Ice creams In this, that 
no milk or eggs are used In the mak- 
ing, the juice of the fruit or extract 
of fruit or essence flavoring and sugar 
and water being prepared and frozen 
together. Sherbet is served in glasses. 
Water Ices are made In exactly the 
same manner as sherbets, only the 
water and sugar are not boiled; they 
are simply mixed together, the flavor- 
ing or fruit juice Is added and 
then they are frozen, and served Im- 
mediately. 

Apple Sherbet 
Sorbet auw Pommes. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

1V4 Pints of Apple Juice. 

1 Quart of Water. 

The Juice of 1 Liomon. 

Pare, core and quarter about twelve 

apples and cook till very tender. Put 

the sugar and water to boll, add the 

apples, and when very tender strain 

all through a sieve. Add the juice of 

the lemon and set to freeze as In Ice 

Cream. (See recipe for Freezing Ice 

Cream.) Serve as desired. 

Apricot Sherbet 

Sorbet auw Abricota. 

H Pint of Apricot Juice. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 1 Quart of Water. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Put the sugar and water to boll. 
Wash about one dozen apricots, pare, 



press them through a sieve, and add 
to the bollng syrup. Let all boll for 
five or ten minutes. Then press 
through a sieve again; add the lemon 
juice, mix well and set to freeze as In 
general directions for freezing Ice 
Cream. 

Banana Sherbet 

Sorbet aua Bananea. 

1 Dozen Bananas. 1 Pound of Sugar. 
1 Quart of Water. 
The Juice of 2 Oranges. 

Peel and mash the bananas. Boll 
the sugar and water together for five 
minutes. Take from the fire, and let 
cool. Then add the bananas and the 
orange juice, and press all through 
a sieve. Set to freeze as directed. 

Cherry Sherbet 

Sorbet auw Ceriaea. 

1 Pound of Cherries. 1 Pound of Sugar. 
1 Quart of Water. 

Boll the sugar and water together 

for five minutes. Stone the cherries 

and add them to the syrup. Then 

set to cool. Press through a sieve 

till all the juice Is extracted from the 

cherries. Set to freeze and serve as 

directed. 

Currant Sherbet 

Sorbet aux Oroaeillea. 

1 Pint of Currant Juice. 
1 Quart of Water. 1 Pound of Sugar. 

Mash one quart of currants. Boll 
the sugar and water for five minute;^. 
Add the currants and strain through 
a napkin or sieve, being careful to 
press very hard to extract the juice 
of the currants. Set to freeze as di- 
rected. 

Grape Sherbet 

Sorbet auw Raiaina. 

1 Pint of Malaga Grapes. 
1 Pound of Sugar. 1 Quart of Water. 

Boll the sugar and water five min- 
utes. Mash the grapes and add all to 
the sugar and water. Set to cool. 
Then press through a fine cloth, mash- 
ing hard to extract all the juice of 
the grapes. Set to freeze and serve 
as directed. 

Lemon Sherbet 

Sorbet auw Citrona. 

The Juice of 10 Lemons. 
The Grated Rind of 3 Lemons. 
1 Pint of Sugar. 1 Quart of Water. , 

Put the sugar and water to boll. 
Grate the yellow rind of three fresh 
lemons, and add to the syrup, and let 
it boll for five minutes. Then set 



308 



THE PICAYUNE CREOI^E COOK BOOK 



away to cool. Extract the juice from 
the lemons, and errate the fruit. Mix 
this with the syrup, and then strain 
through a thin muslin cloth. Turn 
into the fseezer, and proceed as in 
Ice Cream. 

Orange Sherbet 

Sorbet d V Oranges. 

12 Large LouiBiana Oranges. 

1 Quart of Water. 

The Juice of 2 Lemons. 

The Rfnd of 3 Oranges. 

1 Pint of Sugar. 

Put the sugar and water to boil. 

Grate the yellow rind of three sweet 

oranges and add to the syrup, and 

let it boil for five minutes. Then 

set away to cool. Extract the Juice 

from the oranges and lemons, and 

grate the fruit. Mix this with the 

syrup, and then strain all through a 

thin muslin cloth. Turn into the 

freezer, and proceed as in Ice Cream. 

Peach Sherbet 

Sorbet aux P6che9, 

1 Dozen Fine Peaches. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

The Juice of 2 Lemons. 

1 Quart of Water. 

Pare and cut the peaches in halves, 
remove the stones and chop the fruit 
up very fine, sprinkle with a half 
pound of sugar, mash well together 
and set aside for an hour. Then put 
the water and the remaining half of 
the sugar to boil. After five minutes 
remove from the fire and let cool; add 
the peaches and mix well. Then press 
all through a fine cloth sieve, extract- 
ing all the juice from the peaches. 
Set to freeze and serve as directed, 
in glasses. This is a delicious sherbet. 

Pineapple Sherbet 

Sorbet d l{^nana9, 

1 Pound of Grated Pineapple. 

1 Quart of Water. 

1 Pint of Sugar. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Peel and slice and pound the pine- 
apple to a pulp. Then rub through a 
strainer. Put the sugar and water to 
boil for five minutes. Then set away 
to cool. Extract the juice from the 
lemon and mix this with the syrup, 
add the pineapple and juice, and then 
.strain all through a thin muslin cloth. 
Turn into the freezer and proceed as 
in ice cream. This sherbet is also 
made by using, instead of the pine- 
apple, fruit and juice, two tablespoon- 
fuls of Pineapple Extract. 



Pomegranate Sherbet 

Sorbet aux Qrenade*, 

Z Ripe Pomegranates. 

1 Quart of Water. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

^ Teaspoonful of Essence of Va.nll]a. 

3 Drops of CochineaL 

The pips of six or eight ripe pome- 
granates, pressed with a wooden 
spoon through a strainer, will produce 
a pint of juice. Make a syrup by boil- 
ing one quart of water and one pint 
of sugar. Add, when cooling, the 
pomegranate juice, a half teaspoonful 
of Essence of Vanilla, the Juice of a 
lemon, and a few drops of CochineaL 
Proceed to freeze as above directed. 

Raspberry Sherbet 

Sorbet aux FramboUea, 

1^ Pints of Raspberry Juice or Pulp. 

IH Pints of Picked Raspberries. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

3 Drops of Cochineal Juice of Vi Lemon. 

Stem the berries, and add the sugar 
and lemon, and stand aside in their 
Juice for an hour and a half. Then 
strain the berries and their Juice 
through a fine sieve. Turn Into the 
freezer, and proceed to freeze accord- 
ing to directionjs given under heading 
"Ice Cream." This sherbet Is also 
made by adding to the sugar and 
water two tablespoonfuls of Rasp- 
berry Extract, instead of the fruit, 
when not available. 

Strawberry Sherbet 

Sorbet auw Praiaet, 

1% Pints of Strawberry Juice or Pulp. 

1^ Pints of Picked Red Strawberries. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

3 Drops of Cochineal. 

The Juice of V& Lemon. 

Stem the strawberries and add the 
sugar and lemon, and stand aside in 
their Juice for an hour and ia half. 
Then strain through a fine sieve, and 
turn into the freezer and proceed to 
freeze according to directions given 
under the heading "Ice Cream." 
Strawberry Sherbet is also made by 
adding one tablespoonful of Straw- 
berry Extract to the sugar and water, 
when the fruit Is not available. 



WATER ICES 

Water ices, as mentioned above, are 
made in exactly the same manner as 
sherbets, only the sugar and water 
are not boiled. In this case always 
mash the fruit with the sugar and sot 



"XHi; PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



309 



8,side to ^ow Juicy. Then press 
'througrh a fine muslin cloth, to extract 
all the Juice, and add to the water. 
Mix well for a few minutes and freeze. 
In case peaches or apricots or cherries 
are used, pound the fruit, to extract 
all the Juice, and mix well with the 
sugar; strain through a fine sieve or 
muslin cloth, and add to the cold 
water, and proceed to freeze. 

To make Water Ices, follow the di- 
rections given for making Sherbet, 
^Mth the exception of boiling the 
water. 

FROZKN FRUITS 

Dca Fruits Olac6s, 
Remember that in freezing, fruits 
must always be mashed or cut very 
fine, for they freeze more quickly than 
liquids. Fresh fruits are always more 
delicious than canned fruits. 

How to Freeze Fruits 

Cut fine one pound of fruit, or one 
can, and mix with two cups of sugar, 
and one pint of water. Then freeze in 
the ice cream freezer, according to 
directions already given for freezing. 

The proportions of ingredients used 
in freezing fruits are generally one 
pint of fruit, one pint of water and 
half a pound of sugar. Peaches and 
such watery fruits may often be 
frozen without additional water. Serve 
with rich cream or milk. 

Frozen Apricots 

Ahricots Olac^s. 

2 Fine, Ripe Apricots. 

2 Cups of Susar. 

1 Pint of Water or Cream. 

Pare the apricots, cut them in two, 
remove the stones, and cut the fruit in 
small pieces. Mash them and the su- 
gar together, add the water or cream, 
and turn into the freezer and proceed 
to freeze as in Ice Cream. (See recipe 
Ice Cream.) 

Frozen Bananas 

Bananea Olac^a. 

1 Dozen Fine Bananas. 

% Pound of Sugar. 

1 Pint of Sugar or Cream. 

The Juice of 2 Oranges. 

Peel the bananas, cut them very 
line and mash well; add the cream or 
water and the orange Juice, turn into 
the freezer and pack away in ice and 
rock salt. Set to freeze according to 
directions given for freezing Ice 
(^ream. (See recipe.) 



Frozen Cherries 

Veriaea Olac6ca. 

1 Pound of Cherries. 
1 Pound of Sugar. 

1 Quart of Water. 

Stone the cherries, mix them with 
the sugar and add the water. Mix 
well and freeze as in directions for 
Ice Cream. (See recipe.) Serve with 
Whipped Cream or rich milk. 

Frozen Oranges 

Oranges Olac6ca, 

6 Fine Oranges. 

% Pound of Sugar. 

1 Pint of Water. 

Pare the oranges, and grate or cut 

them into fine pieces. Mix well with 

the sugar and set aside for an hour. 

Add the water and mix thoroughly. 

Turn into a freezer and freeze as in 

Ice Cream. (See recipe.) 

Frozen Peaches 

Peches OlaoSes, 

12 Large Peaches. 

2 Cups of Sugar. 
1 Pint of Water. 

Take twelve large peaches or one 
can, two cups of sugar, and one pint 
of water. Cut the peaches fine, and 
mix all the ingredients together. Then 
freeze accoi*ding to directions already 
given. 

Peaches, if very juicy, may often be 
frozen without additional water. Serve 
with rich cream or milk. 

Frozen Pineapple 

Ananas Olac6s. 

1 Large Pineapple. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

1 Pint of Water. 

Pare the pineapples. Cut out the 
eyes, and then grate the fruit, or cut 
it very fine. Add the sugar and water 
and stir well. When the sugar is thor- 
oughly dissolved, turn the mixture 
into a freezer, and proceed to freeze 
as in Ice Cream. (See recipe.) 

Frozen Strawberries 

Fraisea Olacies. 

1 Quart of Strawberries. 
1 Pound of Sugar. 
1 Pint of Water. 

Mash the berries with the sugar and 

set aside for an hour. Add the water 

and mix well, and freeze as in Ice 

Cream (see recipe). Serve with rich 

milk or Whipped Cream. 



310 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE CX>OK BOOK 



Maoedolne of Fruits 

Macedoine de FruiU. 

1 Quart of Lemon Ice Cream. 

The Juice of 3 Lemons. 
H Teaspoonful of Vanilla Extract. 

2 Ounces of Stoned Cherries. 
2 Ounces of Pineapples, 

Cut in Dice. 

2 Ounces of Strawberries. 

2 Ounces of Grapes. 2 Ounces of 

Peaches. 

2 Ounces of Apricots. 

2 Ounces of Oranges. 

1 Ounce of Candied Cherries. 

1 Ounce of Candied Pineapple. 

Prepare a quart of Lemon Ice 
Cream (see recipe). Add to this a 
half teaspoonful of vanilla, two 
ounces each of stoned cherries, pine- 
apple cut into dice shape, two ounces 
of strawberries, two ounces of grapes, 
apricots, and peaches cut into small 
pieces, and the candied fruits in equal 
proportions. Mix all the fruits lightly, 
turn into a freezer and proceed to 
freeze as in Ice Cream. (See recipe.) 

Again, this Macedoine may be pre- 
pared by using instead of the Lemon 



Cream a pint of syrup made of sugar 
and water to which has been added 
the juice of three lemons. 

A very delightful and pretty -w^ay 
of freezing this Macedoine is to pre- 
pare the cream, mix all the candied 
and the fresh fruits together; have 
ready a square ice cream, mold, and 
place one-fourth of the lemon cream 
at the bottom; divide the fruits into 
three parts, and place one portion on 
top of the cream. Cover this vsAth 
another portion of cream, and lay on 
top the fruits. Again cover with the 
cream, and lastly with the fruits. Fill 
up the mold with the remaining por- 
tion of the cream, cover closely, pack 
in broken Ice and rock salt, and set 
to freeze for two hours. Just before 
serving have ready a vessel with warm 
water, lift the mold and wash off 
rapidly, being very careful to remove 
all salt and Ice. Carefully take the 
Macedoine of Fruits from the mold. 
turn Into a cold dessert dish and serve 
immediately. 



CHAPTER XLH 



FRUIT 




YRUPS 



Dc9 Sirops, Etc. 



No book on Creole cookery would 
be complete without reference to 
those delightful fruit syrups which 
are variously known as "Slrops," 
••Ratafias," "Granlts," etc. 



SYRUPS 

BiropB. 

Under this heading are classed 
those delightful beverages of fruits 
or nuts, served by the Creole house- 
wives during the summer season. On 
a hot, sultry day, If you enter a well 
regulated household, the first thing 
Madam will do will be regale you with 
a glass of Lemonade, or "Iced Or- 
geat," or "Iced Pineapple," etc. The 
syrups are put up and bottled by 
Madame herself, and are always at 
hand. 



(^ncral Directions for Makingr Syraps 

The Plain Syrup, that Is the basis 
of all fruit syrups. Is simply sugar and 
water boiled together in the propor- 
tion of two pounds of sugar to a pint 
and a half of water. Cook the sugar 
and water till It forms the syrup 
called "Le petit Caps6" (see recipe un- 
der heading "Sugar as Employed In 
Candy- Making"), or crack, that is, 
cook it till It Instantly snaps asunder 
when placed between the fingers after 
dipping them in cold water for 
this test. Then add the Fruit Syrup 
and mix thoroughly. Let It boll for 
about five minutes; take off the fire 
and let It get almost cold, then bottle 
very tight. 

One quart of fruit when mashed 
and pressed will make a pint of F^ult 
Syrup, to be added to the Plain Syrup 
given above. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



311 



Apricot Syrup 

Sirop d'Ahricota, 

12 Pints of Apricot Syrup. 

1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 

1 Ounce of Essence of Apricots. 

Pare and stone the apricots, then 
cut them Into pieces, pound and mash 
well and set them aside for thlrty-slx 
hours In a cool place. Then strain 
through a bag. pressing out all the 
juice. Cook the sugar and water till 
it forms the syrup called "Le Petit 
Cass€." (See general directions for 
Making Syrups.) Then add the apri- 
cot juice and mix thoroughly; let it 
boll for five minutes, take off the flre. 
when It Is almost cold, add the es- 
sence, and then bottle for use. 

Banana Syrup 

Birop de Bananes. 

2 Pints of Banana Juice. 
1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 

^ Ounce of Banana Essence. 
The Juice of a Lemon. 

Peel the bananas, then cut Into 

small pieces and pound and mash 

well and set aside In a cool place for 

thlrty-slx hours. Then strain through 

a bag and proceed In exactly the same 

manner as for Apricot Syrup (see 

recipe), and add the essence and 

lemon juice when about to bottle. 

Blackberry Syrup 

Sirop de MUrea, 

y^ Pint of Blackberry Juice. 
1 Gallon of Syrup. 

Pick, stem and wash the blackber- 
ries, then pound and mash them well, 
set aside In a cool place for thlrty-slx 
hours. Then strain through a bag, 
pressing out all the juice, and proceed 
In exactly the same manner as for 
Apricot Syrup. (See recipe.) 

Cherry Syrup 

Sirop dc Oeriaca. 

12 Pints of Cherry Juice. 
1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 

Seed the cherries, and stem, pound 
and mash them well, and let them 
stand for thlrty-slx hours In a cool 
place. Then strain through a bag. 
Cook the sugrar and water slowly till It 
forms the kind of syrup that Instantly 
snaps asunder when placed between 
the fingers, after dipping them In cold 
water to enable you to test. Then add 
the fruit syrups and mix thoroughly. 
Let It boll for about five minutes, take 
off the flre, let It get almost cold, and 
then put up In bottles. 



Cranberry Syrup 

Sirop d'Airellea, 

2 Pints of Cranberry Juice. 

1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 

^ Ounce of Soluble Essence of Lemon. 

Proceed In exactly the same man- 
ner as for Currant Syrup (see recipe 
below), adding twice the quantity of 
sugar, and adding the essence after 
the syrup has somewhat cooled and 
you are about to bottle It 

Currant Syrup 

Sirop de OroaeUlea. 

2 Pints of Currant Juice. 
1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 

Pick, seed, wash and dry the cur- 
rants carefully. Then pound them 
well and set aside in a cool place for 
thirty-six hours. Make a Plain Syrup 
(see recipe), and proceed as In the 
General Directions for Making Fruit 
Syrups. (See directions.) 

Currant Syrup with Raspberries 

Birop de Groaeillea Framhoiaee, 

1 Pint of Currant Juice. 

2 Pounds of Sugar. 

6 Pounds of Currants. 

1 Pound of Sour Cherries. 

1 pound of Raspberries. 

1% Pints of Water. 

The cherries and raspberries are not 
necessary, but they give the syrup a 
most delightful flavor and aroma. 
Pick, wash, seed and dry the currants 
carefully. Seed the cherries, and stem 
them and the raspberries, pound and 
mash them well, and let them stand 
for thlrty-slx hours in a cool place. 
Then strain thpough a bag. Cook the 
sugar and water till It forms the syrup 
which instantly snaps asunder when 
placed between the flngers, after dip- 
ping them in cold water, to enable 
you to test. Then add the fruit syrups, 
and mix thoroughly. Let it boll for 
about flve minutes, take off the flre, 
let It get almost cold, and then put 
up In bottles. 

Lemon Syrup 

Birop de Citrons. 

8 Ounces of Lemon Juice. 

15 Ounces of Sugar. 

% Ounce of Extract of Lemon. 

Press the juice from the lemons 

and grate the rind of four Into the 

syrup, set aside In a cool place for six 

or eight hours. Then strain carefully 

through a bag. Make a Plain Syrup, 

using the proportions of flfteen ounces 

of sugar to a pint and a half of water. 



312 



the: picayune CRE014E cx>ok book 



I'repare a gallon of syrup, and then 
proceed as in the General Direct ions 
for Making Syrups (see directions). 
Add the essence when about to bottle. 

Umc Sj'mp 

Sirop de Limont. 

2 Pints of Lime Juice. 

1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 

% Ounce of Soluble Essence of Limes. 

Proceed in exactly the same manner 
as for I.«emon Syrup, and add the es- 
sence when about to bottle. 



Orange Syrup 

Sirop d'OranuvH. 

2 Quarts of Orange Juice. 
1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 
1 Ounce of Lemon Juice. 

Proceed in exactly the same manner 

as for Lemon Syrup, and bottle when 

almost cold. This is a favorite Creole 

Syrup. 

Orgeat Syrup 

Sirop d'Orgeat. 

1 Pound of Sweet Almonds. 

4 Ounces of Bitter Almonds. 

2 Pounds of Sugar. 1 Quart of Water. 

2 Ounces of Orange Flower Water. 

The Peel of a Lemon. 

Do not throw the Almonds into hot 
water and blanch them, as in other 
recipes for almonds, but throw them 
into cold water, after shelling them, 
until the peeling or skin comes oft 
easily. Then mash them and pound 
them In a mortar till they are reduced 
to a fine powder, adding, from time 
to time, a little water and the well 
grated rind of the lemon. When this 
paste is perfectly made, moisten it 
with one-half of the water, and then 
squeeze it hard through a linen cloth, 
each end of which is held by some 
one, so that it may be drained thor- 
oughly of all milk. Then return the 
paste to the mortar, pour in the rest 
of the water, mix thoroughly, pound- 
ing well, and then squeeze again 
through the towel. Put the sugar into 
a farina boiler, and boil it slowly un- 
til it snaps asunder between the 
fingers after testing in cold water. 
Then add the milk of almonds, stir- 
ring well. Return it to the fire, and 
let it simmer gently until it begins to 
boil. After it has boiled for several 
minutes, take it off the fire and let it 
cool. When cold, add the orange flow- 
er water, and mix well. Now drain all 
through a cloth or bag, and fill and 
Heal the bottles. 



Orgeaty being made of the milk of 
almonds, easily decomposes or sours. 
because the oil of almonds, bein^ 
lighter than the other ingredients, 
rises to the top. For this reason. It 
is well to look at the bottles frequently 
and shake them daily. This will keep 
the ingredients well mixed and also 
preserve the Orgeat. 

Use only the nnest white loaf sugar 
in making Orgeat Syrup. 



PejK^li Syrup 

Sirop de Pichea. 

2 Pints of Peach Juice. 

1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 

H Ounce of Peach Essence. 

Pare and stone the peaches, then 

pound and mash well and set aside 

in a cool place for thirty-six hours. 

Strain through a bag, pressing out all 

the Juice, then proceed in exactly the 

same manner as for Apricot Syrup, 

and add the essence as the syrup cools 

and you are about to bottle it. 



Pineapple Syrup 

Sirop d'AnanoB. 

2 Pints of Pineapple Juice. 
1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 
1 Ounce of Lemon Juice. 

Pare the pineapples, cutting out the 
eyes and the core. Then cut into very 
fine pieces and mash and pound well, 
or grate the pineapple, which is bet- 
ter. Set aside for thirty-six hours in 
a cool place. Then strain through a 
fine muslin bag, pressing out all the 
Juice. Then cook a Plain Syrup and 
proceed as in the General Directions 
for Making Fruit Syrups. (See direc- 
tions. ) 

Plum Syrup 

Sirop de Prunes. 

2 Pints of Plum Juice. 
1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 

Stone the plums, pound and mash 
well and set aside in a cool place for 
thirty-six hours. Then proceed in ex- 
actly the same manner as in the 
recipe for Apricot Syrup. (See recipe.) 



Strawberry Syrup 

Sirop de Fraitet. 

2 Pints of Strawberry Syrup. 

1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 
1 Ounce of Raspberry ESssence. 

Pick, stem and wash the strawber- 
ries, then pound and mash them well. 



THK PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



313 



a;nd let them stand for thirty-six hours 
in a cool place. Then strain through 
a, bag. Took the sugar and water till 
It forms the syrup called "T-.e Petit 
Oa«s6." Then add the fruit syrups, and 
mix thoroughly. Let it boil for about 
five minutes, take ofF the Are, let it get 
&lmost cold, and then put up in bot- 
tles. 

Raspberry Syrup 

Birop de Framboiset. 

2 Pints of Raspberry Syrup. 

1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 
1 Ounce of Raspberry Essence. 

Pick, stem and wash the berries 
find proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for Strawberry Syrup, adding 
the essence when about to bottle. 



Vanilla Syrup 

Sirop de VanUle. 

1 Gallon of Plain Syrup. 

3 Ounces of Extract of Vanilla. 
M Ounce of Caramel. 

Boil the syrup and add the Caramel. 
(See recipe.) Drain and then add the 
essence of vanilla. Stir well and bot- 
tle. 

Blackberry Vinegar 

Vinaigre de M&rea. 

2 Quarts of Blackberries. 

1 Quart of Good French Vinegar. 

Put one quart of blackberries into 
a jar or deep vessel, and pour over 
the vinegar. Let them stand for twen- 
ty-four hours longer. Strain them 
again, and again add the fruit, re- 
peating this operation three times, 
and let stand for twenty-four hours 
longer. Then strain through a mus- 
tard bag, and add one pound of white 
sugar to every pint of the liquor, and 
boil the whole In a porcelain kettle 
for half an hour. When cold bottle 
it and keep it in a cool place. Black- 
berry Vinegar made after this manner 
will keep for years, improving with 
age. 

Currant Vinegar and Cherry Vine- 
gar are prepared in the same manner 
as above. 

Orange Vinegar 

Vinaigre d'Oranges. 

36 OranKes. 

1 Quart of Good French Cider. 

l^s Pounds of Sugar to 1 Quart of 

Orange Syrup. 

Peel the oranges. Slice them very 
thin and cover with pure cider vine- 



gar, and let them stand for three or 
four days. Then mash them through 
a cloth, straining as long as the Juice 
runs clear. To every quart of juice 
allow one and two-thirds pounds of 
fine white sugar. Then boil all to- 
gether for about ten minutes, and 
skim very carefully, until no scum 
rises upon the surface. When it has 
, cooled somewhat, bottle it. Put a 
tablespoonful of this extract in a gla.ss 
of cold ice water In warm weather, 
and you will have one of the most 
refreshing of the Creole summer 
drinks. 

Pineapple Vinegar 

Vinaigre d'Ananaa. 

3 Pineapples. 

1 Quart of Pure Cider Vinegar. 

1% Pounds of Sugar to Every QutU't 

of Juice. 

Cover the pineapples, which have 
been very nicely sliced, with pure 
cider vinegar, and let them stand for 
three or four days. Then mash them 
through a cloth, straining as long as 
the juice runs clear. To every quart 
of juice allow one and two-thirds 
pounds of fine white sugar. Then boil 
all together for about ten minutes, and 
skim very carefully, until no scum 
rises upon the surface. When it has 
cooled somewhat, bottle it. Put a 
tablespoonful of this extract in a glass 
of cold ice water and serve as a sum- 
mer drink. 



Raspberry Vinegar 

Vinaigre de Framboiiea. 

2 Quarts of Raspberries. 
1 Quart of Good French Vinegar. 

Put one quart of raspberries into a 
deep vessel, and pour over them the 
vinegar. Let them stand for twenty- 
four hours, and then strain through 
a jelly bag, and add the other quart 
of raspberries, and let them stand for 
twenty-four hours longer. Strain them 
again, and again add the fruit, repeat- 
ing three times this operation of 
straining and letting stand twenty- 
four hours. Then strain through a 
muslin bag, and add one pound of 
white sugar to every pint of the 
liquor, and boil the whole in a porce- 
lain kettle for half an hour. When 
cold, bottle it and keep It in a cool 
place. Raspberry Vinegar made after 
this manner will keep for years, im- 
proving with age. A teaspoonful of 



314 



THE PICATUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



It in a glass of sweetened ice water 
maker a most refreshing summer bev- 
erage, and is especially grateful to 
the sick and delicate. 



Strawberry Vinegar 

Vinaigre de FraUes. 

2 Quarts of Strawberries. 
1 Quart of Good French 
Vinegar. 

Put one quart of strawberries into 
a deep vessel, and poiir over them 
the vinegar. Let them stand for 



twenty-four hours, and then strain 
through a Jelly bag, and add the other 
quart of the strawberries, and let 
them stand for twenty- four hours 
longer. Strain them again, and again 
add the fruit, repeating three times 
this operation of straining and letting 
stand twenty- four hours. Then strain 
through a muslin bag and add one 
pound of white sugar to every pint of 
the liquor, and boil the whole in a 
porcelain kettle for half an hour. 
When cold, bottle it and keep in a 
cool place. 



CHAPTER XLIII 




ICED FRUIT DRINKS 




Eaux de Fruitt Olac^a. 



These are famous Creole summer 
beverages, and are always served to 
visiting friends and at reunions in 
summer. They are made, for the 
most part, of fruit juices and syrups, 
but they are also made from coffee. 

The Orangeade, the Orgeat, and the 
Lemonade are the principal ones. In 
freezing, the Creoles put the mixture 
into water bottles or earthen jugs. 
These are set on ice and twirled 
around. As the contents become 
frozen a wooden spatula is thrust into 
the jar for the purpose of mixing the 
frozen and the liquid parts. 

■ 

Cherry Water 

Eau de Cerises. 

2 Pounds of Cherries. 

1 Lemon. 

8 Ounces of Sugar. 

9 

Stone the cherries and press the 
juice from the pulp into a porcelain 
vessel, and then add a little water and 
the juice of one lemon. Stir well, and 
let stand for two hours. Then wash 
the stones well and pound them fine, 
and add to the cherries, and add eight 
ounces of sugar. Let all stand one 
hour. Then strain the mixture and 
stir well and filter. Set on ice till 
ready to use. Serve in glasses with 
crushed ice. 



LEMONADE 

Hmonade. 

Lemonade is among the most de- 
lightful and most commonly used of 
all fruit waters. Lemonade is always 
served very cold in summer, but there 
is a hot lemonade, which is exten- 
sively used by the Creoles during win- 
ter days for various purposes, mostly 
medicinal. 

Iced Lemonade 

lAmonade Olacie. 

1 Dozen Lemons. 1 Pound of Sugar. 
2 Quarts of Water. Cracked Ice. 

Choose the finest and freshest ripe 
lemons. Hasp the rind with white, 
crushed sugar, in order to extract the 
fine aromatic oil that lurks in the 
peel. Then squeeze the juice of the 
lemon, and strain it, and add the 
sugar and the necessary quantity of 
water. In making lemonade never 
use the rinds of the lemons, except 
to slice one daintily and place a piece 
in each glass when ready to serve. 
The rind simply put into the lemon- 
ade does not add to the strength 
but imparts a bitter and often dis- 
agreeable flavor. Extract the fine oils 
In the rind by rasping, as indicated, 
on crushed sugar. In making cold 
lemonade for six persons, allow six 



rrUX: PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



315 



ounces of sugar to five lemons, and 
one quart of water. Serve with 
crushed ice. 

Hot Lemonade 

Limonade Chaude. 

6 Lemons. 2 Quarts of Water. 
^ Pound of Sugrar. 

Boil the lemons whole and unpeeled 
till the water is reduced to one quart. 
Sweeten and serve. Or proceed in 
exactly the same manner as above, 
using hot water Instead of cold. The 
Creoles boil the lemons when the 
drink is to be used for medicinal pur- 
poses. 

Fmit licinonade 

Limonade de Fruitt. 

S Dozen Lemons. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 
2 Quarts of Water. 1 Pineapple. 

2 Bottles of Seltzer Water. 

3 Dozen Fine Strawberries. 

Take a large punch bowl. Put into 
it one pound of sugar, three quarts of. 
water, the juice of two dozen lemons, 
the juice of one pineapple, two bottles 
of seltzer water. Mix all well. Add 
three dozen fine, large strawberries, 
and decorate with slices of pineapple 
and lemon sliced very thin. In case 
there is not sufllcient sugar, sweeten 
again to taste. Put a large piece of 
ice in the bowl. When ready to serve, 
fill glasses one-quarter full of crushed 
ice, and fill up with the lemonade 
(being careful to have several straw- 
berries and a slice or two of lemon 
and pineapple in each glass). This 
lemonade is delicious. 

Milk of Almonds 

Orgeat. 

6 Ounces of Almonds. 

1 Ounce of Bitter Almonds. 

8 Ounces of Loaf Sugar. 

3 Pints of Water. 

% Gill of Orange Flower Water. 

Blanch and peel the almonds, and 
soak them in cold water for several 
hours. Then pound them thoroughly 
into a pulp, adding as you pound a 
half gill of orange flower water. Put 
this into an earthen vessel with eight 
ounces of the finest and whitest loaf 
sugar. Add three pints of clear water 
and then stir all well together. Re- 
turn to the mortar. Pound well and 
strain. Stir well and set the vessel 
on ice. At the end of an hour it will 
be ready for use. This is a delightful 
summer drink. 



Strawberry Water 

Eau de Fraieea. 

y^ Pint of Strawberry Juice. 
1 Quart of Water. 
8 Ounces of Sugar. 

Choose fine ripe strawberries, stem 
and bruise them in a little water, and 
let them stand for an hour or so. Then 
squeeze them in a cloth and pour the 
Juice off clear. To half a pint of the 
juice add one quart of water and eight 
ounces of sugar. Stir well, strain, 
and put it on ice, and serve as needed 
during the sultry summer days. 

Raspberry and Currant water may 
be made in the same way, as also 
Pineapple and Orange. 



Orangeade 

3 Oranges, 

The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

4 Ounces of Sugar. 

Ihk Pints of Water. 

The oranges must be ripe, juicy 
Louisiana oranges. Peel one orange 
and cut it in thin slices lengthwise, 
and then put it into a vessel with four 
ounces of sugar and a pint and a half 
of water. Squeeze the juice of the 
lemon and two more oranges into an- 
other vessel, and stir well. Then pour 
it on the sliced orange. Let it stand 
for a few minutes, and it is ready to 
use. Strain if you desire. 

Fruit Juice Granits ' 

Des Oranita. 

All manner of summer fruit bever- 
ages may be served as * 'Granits," by 
simply freezing them according to the 
recipes griven above. 

A Granit is only half frozen, the 
thought being to make it resemble 
snow-frosted water; it must always be 
suflUcently liquid to admit of being 
poured out into glasses and passed 
around to guests. The liquid may also 
be frozen in a freezer, but the Creoles 
cling to the old-fashioned water jugs. 

Granits are favorite drinks in 
France, the custom having been 
adopted from the Italians, who served 
them under the name of "Granltii." 

The Granits which are compounded 
from fruits are the most delightful <St 
all but they must be used at once, 
or they will become insipid. The fol- 
lowing recipe for Orange Granit will 
serve for almost any kind of Fruit 
Granit: 



316 



THE PICAYI:NE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



Orange Granit 

Oranit d'Orange. 

12 Orangres. 

1^ Pints of Orange Juice. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

1 Quart of Water. 

Peel six oranges, removing every 

particle of pulp. Slice nicely and 

place in a dish, and sprinkle over 

them the granulated sugar. Set aside 

for several hours to make a syrup. 

Squeeze the juice from the remaining 

siix oranges and add to the syrup 

formed from the other oranges, which 

must be carefully drained of all syrup. 

Add the water; mix well and strain. 

Then turn into a freezer and freeze 

till a light frosting appears. Serve 

in small glasses. 

Strawberry Grai|it 

Chranit de FraUea. 

1 Quart of Strawberries. 

1 Tablespoonful of Strawberry Extract. 

IH Pounds of Sugar. 

1 Pint of Water. 

Mash the berries and cover with the 
.sugar, and set aside to form a syrup. 
Then drain and press through a sieve, 
extracting all the juice. Add the ex- 
tract. Mix all with the water, and 
turn into a freezer and freeze till a 
light, snowy frosting appears. Then 
serve in long, thin glasses. 

Raspberry Granit 

Oranit de Framhoisca. 

1 Quart of Raspberries. 

1 Tablespoonful of Raspberry Extract. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

Mash the berries and proceed in 
exactly the same manner as for Straw- 
berry Granit. 



Sassafras Mead 

BoisBon au Sasaafraa. 

4 Bunches of Sassafras Roots. 

1% Pints of Honey. 

3% Pints of Louisiana Molasses. 

1 Tablespoonful of Cream of Tartar. 

% Teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda. 

This is a . noted Creole summer 
drink, and is prepared as follows: 
Take the roots of sassafras, and make 
about two quarts of Sassafras Tea. 
Strain well. Set to boil again, and 
when it boils add one and one-half 
pints of honey, and three and one- 
half pints of Louisiana Syrup or Mo- 
lasses. Add a tablespoonful of Cream 
of Tartar. Stir well and set to cool. 
When cool strain it. Take about a 
dozen clean bottles and fill with the 



mixture. Cork very tight, and put in 
a cool place. In a day it will be ready 
for. use. When serving thi.«« Mead. 
put a tablespoonful of it into half a 
glass of ice water and stir in a half 
tea.spoonful of Carbonate of Soda. It 
will immediately foam up. I>rink 
while effervescing. This is a cheap, 
pleasant and wholesome summer bev- 
erage. The above recipe has been In 
use in (^reole home« for generatioiiK 

Blackberry Wine 

Vin de M^rca. 

A Quarts of Currant Juice. 

1 Vi Quarts of Cold Water. 

3 Pounds of Granulated Sugar. 

Mix all the above ingredients vrell 
together, and then let them stand for 
twenty-four hours, having, of course, 
obtained the currant juice by cleanly 
picking, washing and drying and 
pressing the berries. Then let it stand 
for two days. After this skim well. 
and set in a cool place to fermeni 
slowly for at least six days. At the 
end of this time remove any froth 
that has collected, and close tightly. 
In two days, when it is well settled, 
draw off, without disturbing the sedi- 
ment, and bottle tightly and seal. This 
wine improves with age. Always have 
the bottles very clean and dry before 
bottling, and if larger proportions are 
used and a cask is necessary, remem- 
ber that an old cask is more desir- 
able than a new one, on account of 
the taste of the wood, and that the 
cask must be perfectly fresh and 
sweet-smelling, or the wine will sour. 

Currant Wine 

Vin de Groaeillea. 

4 Quarts of Currant Juice. 

1% Quarts of Cold Water. 

3 Pounds of Granulated Sugar. 

Prepare in exactly the same man- 
ner as Blackberry Wine. 



Elderberry Wine 

Vin de Flcitra de 8ureau, 

1 Peck of Elderberries. 
2% Gallons of Water. 

% Pound of Sugar. 
% Pint of Hop Yeast. 

Bruse the elderberries, and then 

dilute with the water and boil for 

ten minutes. Then strain well and 

press out the juice from the berries. 

Measure the whole, and add the sugar 

and, while half warm, the yeast. Let 

the whole ferment for ten days. Then 



-X*XI£ PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



317 



oork well. After three months draw 
off the wine and bottle for use. 

In makingr largre quantities of this 
-wine, which is used by the Creoles for 
iinany medicinal purposes, allow four 
X^ecks of elderberries to every ten gal- 
lons of water, and to every quart 
-three-quarters of a pound of sugar 
a.nd a half pint of yeast. 

Muscadine Wine 

Vin Muacadelle. 

4 Quarts of Muscadine Juice. 

1V& Quarts of Cold Water. 
3 Pounas of Granulated Sugar. 

Prepare in exactly the same manner 

as Blackberry Wine. 

lioaisiana Orange Wine 

Vin d'Orangea de la LouiHane. 

3 Pounds of Sugar to Kvery Gallon of 

Juice. 

% Gallon of Water. 

The White of 1 Egg. 

1 Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

Wash some line I^ouisiana oranges, 
dry them with a cloth, peel oft the 
yellow outer rind very, very thin, and 
strain all the Juice through a hair 
sieve. Put the sugar, the crushed 
eggshell and white of the egg, beaten 
to a froth, in a porcelain-lined sauce- 
pan, add the water, and boil to a 
syrup, stirring con.stantly to prevent 
the egg from hardening. Let the 
syrup boil till it looks clear when seen 
through the froth of the egg, which 
will rise to the surface. Then strain 
the syrup, and pour it over the grated 
orange peel, and let it stand for 
twenty-four hours. Then add the 
orange Juice, and strain, and put it 
into a cask with a small cake of com- 
pressed yeast, allowing half a cake 
to live gallons of wine. Close tightly, 
but leave the bung out of the cask 
until the wine ceases to ferment. As 
long as fermentation is progressing 
there will be a hissing sound. When 
this ceases fermentation has stopped. 
Let the wine stand for at least nine 
months. About four months after it 
has been bottled it will be ready for 
use. This is an excellent L9uisiana 
wine, and can be made with little ex- 
pense. 

Scuppemong Wine 
V(n de Mnacadea. 

4 Quarts of Souppernong Juice. 

IH Quarts of Cold Water. 

3 Pounds of Sugar. 

Prepare in exactly the same man- 
ner as Blackberry Wine. (See recipe.) 



Strawberry Wine 

Yin de Fraiaca. 

4 Quarts of Strawberry Juice. 

1»^ Quarts of Cold Water. 
3 Pounds of Granulated Sugar. 

Follow in every respect the recipe 
given for Blackberry Wine. 



SPRUCE BEER 

Biiire de Sapin. 

Boil some tender sprigs of spruce 
until you have an ounce of strong 
essence. Take one ounce of hops and 
a spoonful of ginger, and put them 
into a gallon of water. When well 
boiled strain the mixture, and add a 
pint of Louisiana Molasses or a pound 
of brown sugar, and then add the ex- 
tract of Spruce. When cool add a 
teacupful of yeast (home-made), and 
put all into a clean, tight cask, and 
let it ferment for twenty-four hours or 
two days. Then bottle for use. Es- 
sence of Spruce may be purchased 
and used instead of the sprigs of 
spruce, or the Spruce Gum may be 
boiled. The Creoles always use the 
sprigs, or spruce bark rich with gum. 



GINGER BEER 

BifVc de Qingembre, 

2 Ounces of Bruised Ginger Root. 

2 Ounces of Cream of Tartar. 

4 Quarts of Boiling Water. 

The Juice and Rind of 1 Lemon. 

XVi Pounds of Granulated Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Yeast, or ^ of a Cake. 

Bruise and pound the ginger well, 
and put it into a bowl with the boil- 
ing water. Add the Juice of a lemon 
and the well grated rind. Add the 
Cream of Tartar and the sugar, mix- 
ing and stirring constantly. When it 
is lukewarm add the yeast, dissolved 
in a little water. Mix well and cover 
tightly, and let it stand for six hours. 
Then strain it and put it into bottles 
with patent tops and keep in a cool 
place. It effervesces rapidly if not 
kept most securely corked. 



I>03fESTIC BEVERAGES 

Boiaaona de Minage. 

T'^nder the heading of ''Domestic 
Beverages'* might properly be classed 
Coffee, Tea, Chocolate and Cocoa, 
daily drinks in almost every Creole 
household. 



318 



THE PICAirUXE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



TEA 

Du TM. 

Tea has a stimulating: and fateful 
effect when not taken in excess, and 
promotes digrestion. The Creoles use 
most exclusively the black and green 
tea mixed, preferringr the flavor al- 
ways of the Hyson, Oolong^ Bol^ea, 
Gunpowder or Heno. Like Coffee, Tea 
should never be boiled. It should al- 
ways be made from fresh boiling 
water, and never in any but an eath- 
en or agrate teapot. Tea made in 
earthen tea urns requires longer to 
draw than if made in bright metal 
pots. Tea should never be allowed to 
stand long, as it acquires an unpleas- 
ant taste and loses its delightful aro- 
ma and fragrance. 

To make good tea, first see that the 
teapot is perfectly clean. Then pour 
boiling water into It, and let it stand 
for five minutes, so that the metal or 
earthen urn may become thoroughly 
heated. Then throw out this water, 
and drain the urn well. Allow a tea- 
spoonful of tea for each cup of boiling 
water, or, if you desire stronger tea, 
allow two teaspoonfuls. Put this tea 
into the hot pot, and pour over it a 
pint of boiling water, if you wish to 
make a quart, or, according to the 
quantity desired, one-half a cup of 
water to each cup. After five minutes 
add the other pint of water, or water 
In proportion to the number of cups 
desired, allowing a half cup more for 
each person. Serve at once, very hot. 

In serving the tea, put the cream 
or milk or sugar Into the cups. The 
milk should be cold and unboiled, as 
the boiled milk destroys the flavor of 
the tea. Cream Is far preferable to 
milk. Have the tea very hot, and 
pour It over the milk. 



Always have a pitcher of very hot 
water at hand when about to serve 
the tea. Pour a little into each cup 
to warm it, and then empty before 
putting in the milk and tea. Pour the 
tea through a strainer, so as to avoid 
the possibility of leaves or dregs pass- 
ing Into the cup. 

CHOCOIiATE 

Du Ohooolat, 

1 Cake of Grated Chocolate. 
1 Quart of New Milk. 

Set the milk to boil; in the mean- 
time mix the grated chocolate with a 
little hot water, to blend thoroughly. 
Stir this In the milk as It begins to 
simmer, and let It boll up once, and 
serve hot, each one sweetening to 
taste, or allow two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar to the entire mixture. Serve 
hot, with or without Whipped Cream. 

It Is a mistake to allow chocolate 
to boll a long time. The basis of 
Chocolate is sugar and cocoa, and the 
first gains nothing by boiling, and the 
second loses its fragrant perfume by 
evaporation. 

In economical households one-half 
a cup of water is sometimes allowed 
to three-quarters of a cup of milk in 
making Chocolate. 

COCOA 

Du Coco. 

1 Quart of Milk. 
4 Tablespoonfuls of Cocoa. 

Set the mlk to boll In a farina 

boiler, and moisten the Cocoa with a 

little milk, and pour it into the milk 

Just as it begins to simmer, stirring 

all the while. Let it boll up once, and 

serve hot, with or without Whipped 

Cream. 



XI£E PICAYUXE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



319 



CHAPTER XLIV 



JELLIES. MARMALADES. 

PRESERVES 



^!(wtmiSfSP 



atmtfJt 



Dea Confitures, des Marmalades et des Conherves. 



In making Jellies, marmalades, or 
preserves, use only perfectly sound 
and fresh fruit. Do not cook them 
long enough to destroy their natural 
flavor, and seal them while boiling hot 
in airtight jars, and be careful to fill 
these even to overflowing, so as to 
keep all air from the bottle. Then seal 
quickly. Heat the Jai3 before filling, 
and use a wide mouthed funnel dur- 
ing the process of filling. The large 
mouthed jars that now come with 
glass tops are the best. When once 
the jars are filled, immediately screw 
on the tops, and put them in a dry, 
warm place, where here is not the 
least possibility of the air striking 
them. After twenty-four hours turn 
the tops on still more tightly, and set 
them away in a cool, dark store- 
room or closet. The room must 
not be cold. After six days examine 
the jars carefully. If there is not the 
least sign of any air bubbles on the 
surface, and the liquid seems to have 
settled perfectly, the fruit is keeping 
properly. If, on the contrary, there 
are any air bubbles, the fruit is be- 
ginning to ferment, and if the bottle 
Is not opened immediately, it will 
burst shortly. Take out the fruit, 
cook it over, prepare the jars again, 
and return the fruit to them, 
taking extra precautions to prevent 
the entrance of any particles of air. 
In preserving large fruits, always 
throw them into cold water as soon as 
they have been pared. Then have 
ready a pot of clear, boiling syrup 
and proceed as directed below. 

Use all surplus juices that exude 
from berries to make jellies. 

Never make preserves on a damp, 
rainy day, and never use fruits that 
are overripe, or that have been picked 
in wet weather, as they will sour. 

In all cases the jars must be en- 
tirely full, so as to leave no room for 
fiir, and must be sealed as hot as pos- 
sible. 



Set the jars in warm water before 
filling, and let them gradually heat 
before the hot preserves are put in, 
else they will crack. Let all bubbles 
rise to the top, and If you see any in 
the lower part of the jar, insert a sil- 
ver fork, which will cause them to 
rush to the top. 

If open jars are used, cover first 
with thin parafllne, and then with 
white paper, fastened on with a thick 
flour paste. Label and set the jars 
away. 

These directions for sealing will 
hold in making all preserves, marma- 
lades and jellies. Fruit put up in this 
manner will rarely spoil. . The one 
great thing to be remembered is to 
expel all air. 

Apple Jelly 

QeUe de Pommes. 
1 Pound of Sugar to Every Pint of Juice. 
Take pippins or other tart apples, 
pare them and cut into quarters, put 
into a preserving kettle, cover with 
water, and add the grated rind of a 
lemon, and let them boil to a marma- 
lade. Then, strain the juice, without 
squeezing, through a clean jelly bag 
made of flannel, and for every pint 
of juice add one pound of fine sugar. 
If the apples are not very tart, add 
the juice also. 

Apiicot JeUj 

QeUe d*Abricots, 

To Every Pint of Fruit Juice 1 Pound 

of Sugar. 

Choose apricots that are just ripe, 
and no more. Pare and cut in two, 
and take out the stones. Boil the 
fruit in enough water to cover; strain 
through a hair sieve, and pour the 
liquid into earthen dishes. To every 
pint of liquid add a pound of sugar. 
Set on the fire, let it boil twenty min- 
utes, skimming meanwhile, then pour 
it immediately into cups, glasses or 
preserve jars, and proceed to seal as 



320 



THE PICATUN£ CREOIi£ COOK JBOQK 



directed above. This jelly has a most 
exquisite flavor if the grated rind of 
an orange is added. 

To make apricot syrup, after press- 
ing out the Juice put into glass bot- 
tles, and add one pound of powdered 
sugar to every pound of Juice, and a 
little cinnamon. Shake the bottle well 
until the sugar is melted. Let it stand 
eight days. Then filter the Juice, pour 
it into bottles, fasten securely, and 
keep in a cool place. 

Cherry Juice and all fruit Juices are 
prepared in the same manner. 

Blackberry Jelly 

Oelie de MUres, 

1 Pound of Blackberries. % Pound of 

Sugar. 

To every pound of blackberries al- 
low a half pound of sugar. Put the 
berries in a porcelain-lined kettle and 
cover them with the sugar and let 
them stand for two hours. Then set 
over a moderate Are and bring the 
mixture to the boiling point. Skim 
while boiling; pour immediately into 
cups and glasses, and cover tightly 
and place in a cool, dry place. 

For Strawberry and Blackberry 
Jelly combined, allow equal parts of 
the fruits and proceed as above. 

Blue Plum and Damson Jelly 

QeHe de Prunes. 

1 Pound of Fruit. 
% of a Pound of Sugar. 

Stone the fruit, whether damsonn 

or plums, and allow three-quarters of 

a pound of sugar to every pound of 

fruit. Proceed in exactly the same 

manner as for Blackberry Jelly. 

Calf's Foot JeUy 

OelSe dc Pieds de Veau. 

See recipe under chapter on Com- 
potes. 

Cherry Jelly 

Qclec dc Cerises. 

1 Pound of Cherries. 
^ Pound of Sugar. 

Stone the cherries and allow half 
a pound of sugar to every pound of 
cherries if the cherries are ripe and 
sour, but a quarter of a pound other- 
wise. Set over the fire until the heat 
causes the Juice to flow freely, and 
proceed in exactly the same manner 
as for Strawberry or Blackberry Jelly. 



Currant JeUy 

OeUe de Oroteilles. 

To Every Pint of Juice 1 Pound of 

Sugar. 

Pick currants that are fully ripe: 
clean, wash and boil them. To ever>- 
pint of Juice add one pound of fine 
white sugar. Let it boil for twenty 
minutes, always skimming it while on 
the flre. Do not let it remain longer 
than twenty minutes, or it will grow 
dark. Pour immediately into cups. 

Some boil the currants without the 
sugar, and then, for every pint of 
cooked Juice, they add the sugar In 
the proportions given, stirring briskly 
till all is absorbed and dissolved; then 
the Jars are fllled as quickly as pos- 
sible, for the preparation Jellies at 
once. 

Jellies made in this way are of 
much lighter color than when the 
sugar is boiled into them. 

Currant and Raspberry Jelly 

OcUe de Oroseilles Framboisie. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 
1 Pint of Fruit Juice. 

Take equal parts of currants and 
raspberries and strain the Juice, and 
proceed as above, allowing one pound 
of sugar to every pint of berry Juice. 

To every quart of large red rasp- 
berries allow a half pint of currant 
Juice; place in a kettle, add the sugar 
and bring to a boil, and proceed a; 
directed above. 

Lemon Jelly 

OeUe 4e Citron, 

4 Lemons. H Can of Gelatine. 
1 Quart of Water. 

Grate three or four lemons into a 
pound of reflned sugar, and press out 
the Juice. Then boil one-half a can 
of Gelatine (see Cairs Foot Jelly) 
in one quart of water, and, when re- 
duced to one-half the quantity, add 
the Juice of the sugar; now set all to 
boil on a very hot flre, and then pour 
immediately into a porcelain dish; fill 
the glasses and set in a cool place. 

Orange Jelly 

Oelie de Citron, 

6 Oranges. 

H Can of Gelatine. 

1 Quart of Water. 

Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for Lemon Jelly. 



r 



*VT 



PICAYUNE CR£OLlE COOK BOOK 



321 



Oran^ Jelly, Creole Style 

Oelie d VOrange d la Oriole, 

€ Louisiana Oranges. 
% Box of Gelatine. Sugar to Taste. 

Extract the Juice of the oranges. 
Soak the gelatine, if prepared, and set 
the bowl in boiling water till the gela- 
tine melts. Then add the juice of the 
oranges, and sugar to taste. Strain 
the Jelly through a coarse piece of 
Swiss. Set in a mold to harden. 

The Creoles have a pretty way of 
making baskets out of the oranges 
and serving the Jelly in them. With 
a sharp knife trace out a basket in the 
skin of the orange, and then gradu- 
ally loosening the pulp, cut the. 
orange, without breaking the skin. 
The orange meat is then used for the 
jelly, and the baskets are thrownr into 
ice water for an hour. This makes 
them stiff. When the jelly is hard, it 
is cut into little squares, and gradually 
made to fit, Uke blocks, into the bas- 
kets. These baskets are placed in a 
dish, beautifully garnished with deli- 
cate buds and greenery, and the ef- 
fect is charming. Again, the oranges 
are cut open in this manner. The 
peel is marked oft into eighths and 
pulled from the upper end of the 
stem, without separating them so that 
they open like a beautiful flower. The 
jelly is piled into this when cool, 
whipped cream is heaped on the top, 
a few luscious strawberries are placed 
in the cream, and thus is made a 
beautiful and delicious dessert. Try it. 

Peach Jolly 
Oelie de P^he9. 

1 Pound of Sugar to Every Pint of 
Fruit Juice. 
Choose peaches that are just ripe, 
and no more. Pare, cut in two, and 
take out the stones. Boil them in 
water sufficient to cover well, strain 
through a hair sieve, and pour the de- 
coction into earthen dishes. To every 
pint of liquid add a pound of sugar. 
Set on the fire, let it boil twenty min- 
utes, skimming while on the fire. Pour 
immediately into cups, glasses or pre- 
serve Jars, and proceed as directed 
above. 

Pear Jelly 

Oelie de Poiree. 

1 Pound of Sugar to Every Pint of 

Liquid. 

Choose pears that are just ripe, and 

no more. Pare and cut in two, and 

take out the stones. Boil them In 



water sufficient to cover well, strain 
thro'gh a hair sieve, and pour the 
decoction into earthen dishes. -To 
every pint cf liquid add a pound of 
sugar. Set on the lire, let it boil 
twenty minutes, skimming mean- 
while. Pour immediately into cups, 
glasses or preserve jars, and proceed 
as directed. 

Pineapple Jelly 

OeUe d*Ananaa. 

% Pound of White Sugar to Every 
Pound of Grated Pineapple. 
Pare the pineapple, take out the 
eyes and grate carefully, or pick into 
fine pieces. To every pound of pine- 
apple allow three-quarters of a pound 
of white sugar. Put the pineapple 
and the sugar to boil in a porcelain 
lined kettle and cook over a moderate 
Are for ten or fifteen minutes, as di- 
rected above. Then proceed to pour 
into jelly glasses or jars, cover tightly, 
and set in a cool place. 

Quince Jelly 

Oelie de Ooinge. 

1 Pound of Sugar to Every Pint of 
Fruit Liquid. 
Pare and core the quinces, and cut 
into slices. Boll until well done, 
which may be determined by running 
a fork through them. Then strain 
the liquor through a flannel bag. and 
measure it, allowing one pound of 
white sugar to every pint of juice. 
Place the whole on a fire in the pre- 
serving kettle, and watch closely. Do 
not let it boil over. Try occasionally 
on a saucer. When it begins to grow 
.solid it is done. Then proceed to 
bottle as directed above. 

Raf«pberry Jelly 

Oelie de Framholaee. 

To Every Pound of Berries H Pound of 

Sugar. 

Put the berries in a porcelain-lined 

kettle, and cover them with the sugar 

and let them stand ' for two hours. 

Then set over a moderate fire and 

bring the mixture to a boiling point. 

Skim while boiling; pour immediately 

into cups and glasses, cover tightly 

and place in a cool dry place. 

Strawberry Jelly 

Oelie de Fraieee. 

To Every Pound of Berries a Half 
Pound of Sugar. 

Put the berries in a porcelain-lined 

kettle, cover them with the sugar and 



I 

J 



322 



rn 



THE PICAYUXE CREOIiE GOOK BOOK 



let them stand for two hours. Then set 
over a moderate fllre and bring: the 
mixture to a boiling point. Skim while 
boiling; pour immediately into cups 
and glasses, cover tightly and place 
in a cool, dry place. 

JAMS 

Dea Marmeladea. 
Marmalades are mixtures of fruits 
reduced to such a consistency that 
they may be preserved. Ripe fruits, 
which cannot bear the process of 
blanching required in preserving whole 
fruit, are used for this purpose. The 
beauty and taste of a marmalade de- 
pend on the fruits that are used and 
the quality of sugar, as also upon the 
care bestowed on the preparation. 

Directions for Maklngr a Marmalade 

Always choose ripe, beautiful, lus- 
cious fruit. Cut the fruit into small 
pieces, and then add the sugar and 
fruit in alternate layers in the pre- 
serving kettle, with a layer of fruit 
on the bottom. Set the kettle over 
the fire. If the fruit is not very juicy 
add a small quantity of water to set 
it to boiling and to extract the Juices. 
As the fruit boils, shake the kettle 
occasionally by lifting it from the 
fire, and turn it about briskly to 
prevent it from burning at the bot- 
tom. Never stir with a spoon, as it 
will be sure to burn. When the whole 
mixture begins to look very clear, and 
you see, by testing a portion on a 
plate, that it is growing thick, it is 
done. Then take from the fire and 
put into jars at once. This mode of 
cooking distinguishes the marmalade 
from preserves and jellies. 

Follow these directions implicitly in 
the succeeding recipes: 

Apple Marmalade 

Marmelade de Pommea. 

3% Pounds of Fruit to 2 Pounds of 

Sugar. 

Peel the apples and cut them into 
quarters, extracting all the seeds. 
Then throw them into fresh water, 
sufficient to half cover, and set them 
on the fire. When they begin to grow 
soft, mash them with a wooden spoon; 
then add the sugar; add the grated 
rinds of several lemons; mix well, and 
then set all back upon the fire. Stir 



the mixture while boiling until It is 
of the proper consistency, and then 
pour it into jars or glasses. 

Cherry Jam 

Marmelade de Ocriacs. 

For Every Pound of Cherries % of a 
Pound of Sugar. 

Select fine, ripe cherries. Stone 
themf but be careful not to allow them 
to lose their juice. Allow three- 
fourths of a pound of sugar for every 
pound of fruit. Arrange in layers as 
directed above, set on the fire, and 
boil till the syrup is very clear and 
begins to form a jelly when a portion 
is turned upon a plate. Then bottle 
as directed. 

Orange Marmalade 

Marmelade d^Oranges. 

To Every 6 Oranges Allow 2 Lemons. 

To Every Pound of Fruit % of a 

Pound of Sugar. 

Select fine, ripe Louisiana oranges. 
Remove the rind, grate it, and grate 
the pulp, preserving carefully every 
particle of juice. Extract the seeds. 
To every six oranges and juice allow 
the grated rind and juice of two 
lemons. Then weigh the whole, and 
allow for every pound of fruit three- 
fourths of a pound of sugar. Cook 
the whole, adding, of course, the 
grated rind of the oranges, and when 
done turn into jelly tumblers. Test 
by turning a portion on a plate. When 
it begins to jelly, which will be in 
about twenty-five minutes, the mix- 
ture is ready to be turned into the 
tumblers and sealed. 

A marmalade of orange and lemon 
peel may be made by putting tho 
rinds into a jar of water, and letting 
them stand for several days. Then 
drain and grate or pound soft. Allow 
a half pound of sugar for every 
pound of pulp. Put in a little water to 
start it boiling, and let it cook for 
three-quarters of an hour. Then pro- 
ceed to turn into jelly glasses. 

Pear l^farmalade 

Marmelade de Poirea. 

2 Pounds of Sugar to Every 3V& Pounds 

of Pears. 

Peel the pears and cut them into 
quarters, extracting all the seeds. 
Then throw them into fresh water, 
sufficient to half cover, and set them 
on the fire. When they begin to grow 






1MJE1 PICATUN£ CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



328 



soft, mash them with a wooden spoon; 
t.hen add the sugrar; add the grated 
rinds of several lemons according to 
taste; mix well, and then set all back 
upon the fire. Stir the mixture while 
boiling till it is of the proper con- 
sistency, and then pour it into jars or 
glasses. 

Peach Marmalade 

Marmelade de P^chet. 

To Every Pound of Peaches % of a 
Pound of Sugar. 

Pat-e and cut into small pieces some 

nice, ripe peaches, and put them in a 

preserving kettle, with a layer of fruit 

and a layer of sugar, alternating till 

all are used. Cook as directed. 

Watch carefully that they do not burn. 

When they begin to form a jelly, put 

away in stone jars or glasses. Apricot 

and Plum Marmalade are made in the 

same manner. 

Pineapple Marmalade 

Marmelade d^Ananat. 

To Every Pound of Pineapple % of a 
Pound of Sugar. 

Pare the pineapple, and remove the 
eyes. Grate carefully, preserving the 
juice. Allow three-fourths of a pound 
of sugar to every pound of the grated 
fruit, and proceed as directed above. 

Quince Marmalade 

Marmelade de Coinga. 

For Every Pound of Quince Add % of a 
Pound of Sugar. 

Take ripe quinces; cut them into 
small pieces; steam them in sufficient 
water to cover ihem, and let them 
cook till they can be mashed with a 
wooden spoon. When well mashed, 
pour in the sugar, allowing three- 
fourths of a pound for every pound 
of fruit. Then arrange in layers as 
directed above and cook until it as- 
sumes a bright red color. Test by 
pouring on a saucer just sufficient to 
see' if It will jelly; when it reaches this 
degree of consistency, turn it at once 
into jars or glasses. When cold it will 
be quite solid. 

Raspberry Jam 

Marmelade de Framhoiaea, 

To Every Pound of Raspberries 1 Pound 

of Sugar. 

Select fine, ripe fruit, and weigh, 
allowing equal weights of fruit and 
sugar. Proceed to boil as directed. 
When it begins to jelly, it is ready to 
be turned into glasses. 



Raspberry Jam is very much im- 
proved by the addition of a glass of 
currant juice, cooking all together. 

Strawberry Jam 

Marmelade de Fraiaea. 

To Every Pound of Berries 1 Pound of 

Sugar. 

Select fine, ripe strawberries, and 

weigh, allowing equal weights of fruit 

and sugar. Proceed to boil as directed. 

When it begins to jelly, it is ready to 

be turned into the jelly glasses. 

Conserve of Grapes 

Marmelade de Raiaina. 

To Every Pint of Fruit Juice % Pound 

of Sugar. 

Boll the grapes for one hour, and 
then press them through a sieve. Add 
a half pound of sugar to every pint 
of liquid, and proceed as directed 
above. 

Orange Flower and Rose Conserves 

Conacrve Flcura d'Orangva et dc Roaes. 

8 Ounces of Rose Water. 

2 Ounces of Powdered Orange Petals. 

IVi Pounds of Sugar. 

This is a delicious Creole Conserve. 

Take two ounces of powdered orange 

flower petals, one and one-half pounds 

of sugar, and eight ounces of rose 

water. Steep the petals in distilled 

water, and then add the sugar, and 

set to heat over a moderate fire. Add 

the rose water. When it begins to 

turn to jelly put it into glasses. 

Violet C'onsrrvo 

Conaerve de Violettea. 

2 Ounces of Freshly-Gathered Violet 

Petals. 
IV^ Pounds of Sugar. 

This conserve is made by pounding 
two ounces of freshly-gathered violet 
petals, with great care, Into a paste, 
after steeping in dLstllled water suf- 
ficient to soften them. Then add the 
sugar, in proportion of one and a half 
pounds, and boil to a flake. 

PRESERVES 

Dea Oonaervea. 

General Directions for Making 
Prescr\'cs 

The preserving of fruits is very simi- 
lar to the making of jellies, only in pre- 
serving equal quantities of fruit and 
sugar are used. 



324 



THE PICAYUNK CRKOLE COOK BOOK 



Fruits may be preserved either 
whole or otherwise. In preserving 
fruits whole, it Is best to prick such 
fruits as pears, plums and peaches 
with a needle, so as to give vent to 
the juice, which would otherwise 
escape and burst the skin. However, 
the best way is the old-fashioned one 
of paring the fruit carefully, either in 
halves or whole, simply removing the 
skins and cores. Then make a syrup 
of one pound of white sugar to each 
pound of fruit. I-.et the syrup boil till 
the fruit looks clear. Or make the 
syrup by putting it on the fire with 
water, allowing a half pint of fresh 
water to a pound of the best while 
sugar. Stir well and bring to a boll. 
Let It boll five minutes, when It will 
begin to bubble and froth. As tho 
froth rises the syrup will become 
clear. Skim and put It on a very low 
fire to settle, after which the fruit 
may be put in. 

If the former method is used, take 
the fruit carefully out of the syrup 
as soon as possible, taking up as little 
of the syrup as need be, and then 
place the fruit In the jars. Let the 
syrup continue to boll till it becomes 
very thick, then fill the jars up with 
It, and when cool close the jars. 

Use In preference a porcelaln-llned 
kettle. If you use a copper kettle, 
never allow the preserves, jams or 
marmalades to cool In the kettle, on 
account of the vlrdlgrls which will 
be sure to form. 

It Is absolutely necessary to keep 
all preserves, marmalades and jellies 
In a cool (not cold) place that Is, per- 
fectly free from dampness or possi- 
bility of heat. Heat will cause fer- 
mentation, and the preserves will 
quickly sour. Dampness will make 
them decompose and mold. 

Follow Implicitly the above direc- 
tions, and you will be sure to succeed 
in making preserves, etc. 

Fig Preserves 

Take the weight In sugar of the 
quantity of figa to be preserved; the 
figs must be ripe. Immerse them In 
cold water for twelve hours; then 
simmer in water enough to cover them 
until tender, and spread out upon a 
sieve to •'^ol and harden. Make a 
.syrup of the sugar, a cup of cold 
water being allowed for every pound. 
Boil until clear of scum, put in the 



figs, and simmer for ten minutes. 
Take them out and spread upon tlie 
dishes in the sun. Add some cut 
lemons and a little ginger, according^ 
to taste; boll the syrup thick, give 
the figs another boil of fifteen min- 
utes and fill the jars three-quarters 
of the way up to the top. Then fill up 
with boiling syrup, cover, and, when 
cold, seal up. 

Lemon Preser^'cs 

Conaerres dc Citrons, 

1 Pound of Sugar for Every Pound of 

Lemons. 
The Juice of 1 Lemon for Every Pound 

of Fruit. 

A Tablespoon ful of Alum for Every 

Quart of Water. 

Cut the lemon in halves, after par- 
ing, and remove the seeds. Then cut 
it up into a number of thin slices, and 
put them into a vessel with cold 
water, adding a tablespoonful of alum 
to every quart of water, or a little salt. 
After several hours put the lemon into 
cool, fresh water, and let it remain 
an hour, and drain. Then put it into 
a kettle and cover with two quarts 
of boiling water. Add the rinds of tlie 
lemon or citron, and a few pieces of 
ginger root. Let all boll till perfectly 
clear. Then take out the fruit and 
drain dry. Then prepare a syrup, al- 
lowing one pound of sugar for every 
pound of fruit, and add the juice of 
a lemon for each pound of fruit. Put 
the citron or lemon In without any 
ginger, and allow it to boll for three- 
quarters of an houi*. It will become 
a beautiful, clear amber color. Pro- 
ceed to bottle or seal In jars immedi- 
ately. 

Peach Preserves 

Oongervea de P^chet, 

To Every Pound of Fruit 1 Pound of 

Sugar. 

Prepare the syrup as above di- 
rected. Then peel the peaches and 
cut them into halves, removing the 
.stone. Skim the syrup, and drop in 
the peaches, one at a time, and let 
them boil till tender, from fifteen to 
twenty minutes. They should be so 
tender that they may be pierced with 
a broom straw. This is the test 
Then remove the kettle from the fire, 
carefully drain out the peaches and 
put them In the jars. Then boil the 
syrup twenty minutes longer, or until 
it forms a thick syrup, removing the 
scum as It rises. Pour off any remains 



TH£ PICAYUNE CREOIi£ COOK BOOK 



325 



of thin juice that may have adhered 
to the peaches in the jar, and fill In 
Mrith the syrup, and set aside to cool. 
AVhen cold, screw on the tops of the 
jars. Label and set away. 

Fruit Preserves 

Con»erve9 de FruiU, 

To Every Pound of Fruit Allow 1 Pound 

of Sugar. 

Apple, Plum, Damson, Grape, 
Strawberry, Raspberry, Currant, Scup- 
pernong. Muscadine, Pumpkin, Sweet 
Potato and other preserves are pre- 
pared in the same manner as in the 
directions given for Peach Preserves, 
only the berries, such as Strawberries, 
Blackberries and Raspberries, do not 
require much cooking. Preserve Cher- 
ries whole, stoning and stemming. 

Pineapple Prescr>'es 

ConaerwB d* Ananas, 

To Every Pound of Fruit 1 Pound of 

Sugar. 

Pare the pineapple and remove the 
eyes. Then slice it nicely and weigh 
it. Allow equal quantities of fine, 
powdered sugar. Place the fruit in a 
deep dish and then sprinkle the sugar 
over it, between the slices, in alter- 
nate layers, and let it remain over 
night. Drain off the syrup In the 
morning, and put it in a kettle, and 
when it gets very hot put in the fruit. 
Let it cook slowly till the slices look 
very clear, and then skim them out 
and put them in the Jars. Fill to 
overflowing, and then seal. 

Quince Preserves 

Conserve de Coings. 

To Every Pound of Fruit 1 Pound of 

Sugar. 

Pare the ripe quinces, and then cut 
them into slices or rings. Weigh them 
and put them Into the preserving ket- 
tle and cover with water. When they 
are quite tender, pour off the super- 
fluous water, leaving about half a 
pint to every pound of fruit, and add- 
ing sugar, pound for pound. Let the 
whole boll till the fruit is tender. 
Then carefully drain out the fruit and 
lay it in the jars. Now return the 
kettle to the fire and let the syrup 



boil to a jelly. Then fill the jars with 
It. The jelly will grow clearer and 
brighter as time goes on, for quinces 
preserved In this way will keep for 
years. 

Orange Preserves 

Conserve d'Oranges. 

To Every Pound of Oranges 1 Pound of 

Sugar. 

Peel the oranges. Then slice nicely 

and weigh. Allow equal quantltes of 

fine white powdered sugar. Place the 

fruit in a deep dish, and then sprinkle 

the sugar over It, between the slices, 

in alternate layers, and let it remain 

over night. Drain ofC the syrup In 

the morning, and put it in a kettle. 

and when it gets very hot put in the 

fruit. Let It cook slowly till the slices 

look very clear, and then skim them 

out and put them in the jars. Fill to 

overflowing and then seal. 

Small Oranges Preserved Whole 

Conserves de Petites Oranges. 

To Every Pound of Oranges 1 Pound of 

Sugar. 

Take small, green, sweet orange:;, 
and pierce them several times with a 
penknife till very soft. Let them stand 
for three days In water, which must 
be fully renewed every day. Put 
them In a dish after the third day, 
pour thin clarified sugar over them, 
and then prepare a syrup as above 
directed. Add the oranges when it 
begins to boll, cook till they are ten- 
der, and proceed In the usual way. 
Or the oranges may be taken out, 
placed on a sieve after the first boil- 
ing up of the syrup, and drained and 
glazed or candied, as crystallized fruit. 

IVatermelon Rind Preserves 

Conserve d'Scorees dc Melon d'Ea-i. 

To Every Pound of Watermelon Rind 1 
Pound of Sugar. 

Cut the watermelon rind into thin 
slices, and put them In a bucket of 
fresh water. In which has been dis- 
solved a teaspoonful of alum for every 
quart of water. Let them remain 
several hours, until they grow crisp, 
and then proceed In exactly the same 
manner as in the recipe for Citron 
preserves. 



326 



THE PICAYUNE CREoLe GOOK BOOK 



CHAPTER XLV 




Bonhont et 8ucrerie$ Creoles. 



Creole Candles occupy a unique po- 
sition among* confections in the United 
States, and it has often been said that 
the old French Quarter could apply 
for a patent for its delicious "Paeans 
k la Crfime," "Pralines Blanches," "Pls- 
taches Pralin^es," "La Colle," "Mais 
Tactac." "Drag^es," "Guimauves," 
"Pastilles," ''Nougats" and other ex- 
clusive products of the Creole cuisine. 
The term "Praline" is not of Creole 
origin, being a common enough word 
in the vocabulary of the French na- 
tion, with whom it means "sugared," 
and has no reference whatever to the 
delightful confections that had their 
origin in the old homes of New Or- 
leans. 

There Is, indeed, a traditional recipe 
of the gr'eat Viart, "I'Homme de 
Bouche," as he called himself, who 
tickled the palate of Charles X, in 
the jocund days of the Bourbon res- 
toration, and another old tradition 
that the Praline was a species of 
Drag#e, which derived its name from 
the Marfichal de Plessin-Pralin, who 
was very fond of almonds, and whose 
butler one day advised him to have 
them coated with sugar to avoid In- 
digestion. 

Again, there is an old French rhyme 
of Cresset's which has become incor- 
porated in the banquette games of the 
little Creole children of New Orleans, 
and which runs thus: 

"Soeur Rosalie au retour de matines, 
Plus d'une fois lui porta des pralines." 

But all these songs and stories sim- 
ply refer to any sugar-coated nut. It 
was reserved for the gentle descen- 
dants of these old French ancestral 
homes to evolve from the suggestive- 
ness of the word **Praline," dainty 
and delightful confections that have, 
for upwards of one hundred and fifty 
years, delighted many generations in 
New Orleans. 



White Pralines 

Pralinea Blanches de Coco. 

1 Pound of Fine White Sugar (Grana- 

lated). 
1 Freshly-Grated Cocoanut (Small Sise>. 
4 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

Use a farina boiler or a porcelain- 
lined saucepan. Put the sugar in Uie 
saucepan, with the water and let it 
boil well. When it begins to form 
a syrup, take from the fire and stir 
in the freshly grated cocoanut. Mix 
thoroughly and return to the flre, and 
let it boil until you can draw it like 
a thread between your finger and 
thumb. Be careful to stir constantly 
from the time you add the cocoanuU 
In two or three minutes as it begins 
to bubble, take it off the 4re. for 
this will be sutflcient cooking: if you 
wish the praline to be light and flaky. 
Have ready a cleanly wash and some* 
what wet marble slab or buttered 
dish. Take a kitchen spoon and drop 
the mixture into cakes on the slab, 
spreading them out with the spoon 
and shaping with a fork till they 
form a neat round cake of about a 
quarter of an inch in thickness and 
four or five inches in diameter. Let 
them dry; and then gently raise them 
from the slab with a knife. You will 
have the dainty white pralines, those 
peculiar Creole confections which are 
ever much sought after by strangers 
visiting New Orleans. 

Increase the quantity of sugar in 
proportion to the size of the cocoanut, 
oisingr three pounds of finest white 
sugar for a very large cocoanut, and 
never boil the cocoanut more than a 
few minutes in the sugar. 

Pink Pralines 

Pralinea Rose de Coco. 

1 Pound of Fine White Sugar (Granu- 
lated). 
1 Freshly-Grated Cocoanut (Small Size) 
4 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 
1^ Tablespoonful of Cochineal. 
Proceed in ejcactly the same man- 
ner as above, only add about a table- 



THE picATrrEn: greole: cook book 



827 



spoonful of Cochineal to the pralines, 
Just before taking off the fire. Pro- 
ceed to drop on a marble slab, as 
above. 

Pecan Pralines 

PraUnet aux Pacan%. 

1 Pound of Brown Susar. 

H ■t'ound of Freshly-Peeled and Cut 

Louisiana Pecans. 

1 Spoon of Butter. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

Set the sugar to cook, and as it be- 
grins to boil add the pecans, which 
have been well shelled and cleaned 
and cut some into fine pieces, others 
into halves and others again Into 
Quarters. Let all boil till the mixture 
begins to bubble, then take it off 
the stove and spread it out to dry on a 
marble slab, as above. These pecan 
pralines are delicious. 

Be careful to stir the mixture in the 
above recipe constantly till the syrup 
begins to thicken and turn to sugar. 
Then take from the stove and at once 
turn it on the marble slab. One pound 
of unshelled pecans will make a half 
pound shelled. In using water, add 
just sufficient to melt the sugar. 

'^ Cream Pecans 

PacQfia d la Crime, 

1 Pound of Pecans. 

The Whites of an Egg. 

»4 Pound of Finest White Confectionery 

Sugar. 

' Peel the pecans in halves, being 

careful not to break the meat. Then 

beat the white of an egg very briskly 

with its weight in water till it forms 

a cream. Then work in with your 

fingers the finest white confectionery 

B^gar till it forms a smooth paste. 

Take a small piece of this paste, roll 

it. and put it between two halves of 

the pecans, and then lightly roll in the 

paste, fiattening the pecan somewhat. 

The coating outside must be very, very 

light, so that the delicate brown of 

the pecan meat shows through. Set 

the pecans to dry, and serve on dainty 

china saucers, one for each guest. 

Almond Pralines 

Amandes PrtMnies, 

1 Pound of New Almonds. 
1 Pound of Sugar. % Glass of Water. 
A Pinch of Carmine. 
Peel the almonds whole, and then 
rub them well with a linen cloth, to 
take off any dust. Put them ipto a 
skillet with a pound- of the finest 
white sugar, and a dash of Carmine. 



if you wish to tinge them to a beau- 
tiful rose. But they are very beauti- 
ful when a snowy white. Place the 
skillet on the fire, stirring all the time 
until the almonds crackle hard. Then 
take off the fire and work until the 
sugar becomes sandy and well de- 
tached from the almonds. Then take 
out about half of the sugar, and again 
put the almonds on the fire, stirring 
them lightly with a spoon as they 
again pick up the sugar, paying strict 
attention to the fire, that it be not too 
quick. When the almonds have taken 
up this part of the sugar, put in the 
reserved portion, and continue to parch 
until every bit of the sugar has been 
taken up. Then put a piece of paper 
in a sieve, and throw the almonds 
upon it, shaking around so as to sepa- 
rate those which still cling together. 
Each almond must be separate and 
encrusted with sugar. 

Sugared Peanuts 

PittacheB PraHn6e9. 

1 Pound of Peanuts. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

^ Glass of Water. 

A Pinch of Carmine. 

Peanuts, which have been dubbed 
"Pistaches" by the Creoles, may be 
made into delightful confections ac- 
cording to the recipe given above for 
"Amandes Pralin^es." 

Peanut Pralines 

Pralines auaa Peanuts, 

1 Pound of Peanuts. 

1 Pound of Brown Sugar. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Shell the peanuts and break ink) 
bits. Then set the sugar and water 
to boil, and as it begins to simmer add 
the peanuts and the butter. Stir con- 
stantly and as it bubbles up once take 
from the fire, pour from the spoon on 
the marble slab or a buttered plate, 
and set away to harden. 

Molasses Candy 

Candi Tir€ d la MiUuse. 
Louisiana is rightly the home of 
Molasses Candy, for it was here, in 
this old city, that sugar was first made 
in the United States, and molasses, 
sweet and health-giving, was first 
griven to the world. Here, too. Mo- 
lasses Candy, or "Candi Tlr6," as the 
Creoles say, had its origin. "Candl 
Tir6" parties, or Molasses Candy Pull- 



328 



THE PICAYUNE CREX>IiE COOK BOOK 



in^, were pleasurable Incidents of the 
life of the early New Orleans belles 
and beaux. Take 

1 Quart of Louisiana Molasses. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Pound of Granulated Suffar. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Vinegar. 

V& 'leaapoonful of Soda. 
The Juice of 1 Lemon. 

Boil the sugar until it becomes quite 
thick when dropped into water. Add 
the molasses and the vinegar and but- 
ter. Boil till it hardens when it is 
tested in cold water. Then stir in a 
small half teaspoonful of bicarbonate 
of soda, and pour into buttered tins, 
and as soon as it begins to cool suffi- 
ciently pull till white. Moisten the 
hands while pulling with ice water or 
butter. The sticks may be single, 
twisted, braided or flattened, according 
to taste. 

MOIiASSES PASTE 
Ija CoUe 

2 Pounds of Brown Sugar. Or 1 Pint of 
Molasses. « 2 Cups of Louisiana Pecans. 

"La Colle*' is a delightful kind of 
molasses praline cake that the old 
negro cake and candy vendors make 
out of black molasses and pecans or 
peanuts. These cakes are placed in 
dainty white paper cases, are dried 
and sold, to the delight of the chil- 
dren. They are made by taking two 
pounds of brown sugar, and boiling 
it down to almost one pint of syrup. 
To this dark syrup add two cups of 
pecans, cut or mashed in various 
irregular sizes. Then, when it be- 
comes so thoroughly boiled that it 
passes like a thread between the An- 
gers, it is poured into small white 
paper cases about four inches long 
and two inches wide, making the cake 
about a half or quarter of an inch in 
thickness. These are set to dry, and 
always find a ready sale everywhere. 
The cases are made out of white 
foolscap paper, folded neatly like the 
light cover of a box. 

Or, take one pint of Molas.ses and 
bring to a boll. Throw in some pea- 
nuts, and then fill the little paper 
cases. 

Pop-Corn Candy 

*'TaC'Tac." 

1 Cupful of White Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter, 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

3 Quarts of Nicely-Popped Corn. 

Put the butter, water and sugar Into 
a boiler, and cook till it begins to al- 



most run to candy; then throw in the 
nicely popped corn; stir vigrorously 
over the fire until the sugar is evenly 
distributed over the corn; tlien take 
the kettle from the fire and stir until 
it cools a little. In this way you will 
have each grain or kernel separate 
and coated with sugar. If you wish, 
pile it into mounds and roll into balls 
whili still hot enough for the grains 
to adhere. These are put into dainty 
rolls of tissue paper and sold along 
the streets of New Orleans. 



CORN CAIiDY 

Mais "Tac-Tae" 

1 Pint of Louisiana Molasses. 
% Pound of Indian Corn (Parched). 

Boil one pint of Louisiana molasses, 
and, as it comes to the boiling point. 
throw in about three-quarters of a 
pound of . parched Indian corn, 
parched to a blossom; stir well, and 
then pour into little paper cases. 
about Ave or six inches in length, 
three in width and one and a half in 
depth. Let these cool before touch- 
ing. This is another of the peculiar 
kinds of candies sold by the old Cre- 
ole negroes of New Orleans. 



CARAMELS 

Caramels. 

1 Pound of Clarified Sugar. 
Sufficient Water to Melt. 

Take one pound of clarified sugar 
and add just sufficient water to melt; 
boil it till it is very brittle and haa 
the slightest odor as if beginning to 
burn; then pour it on a buttered slab 
or plate, and, as soon as it is cool 
enough to show a finger mark, cut it 
out with a common case knife into 
small squares an inch in size, after 
which glaze with another coating of 
.sugar. Let them dry and keep them 
tightly closed, as they are easily in- 
jured and become soft by contact with 
the atmosphere. 



Chocolate Caramels 

Caramels au Ohocolat. 

% pound of Chocolate. 

2 Cups of Suear. 

H Cup of Milk. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

Set the sugar to boll; scrape the 
chocolate In the milk, and add it to 
the boiling sugar, and stir in the but- 



THE PICAYrNE CREOIE COOK BOOK 



329 



ter; then boil till It forms a syrup. 
Turn it out very quickly upon a 
greased slab or a well buttered dish 
or pan that Is quite square. When it 
hegrins to cool, cut it up into very 
small squares with a case knife and 
set in a cool, dry place to harden. A 
^ood test as to whether the mixture 
is done is to drop a little from the 
end of a spoon into a cup of cold 
water. If it begrins to harden instant- 
ly, it is ready to take from the stove. 

The Cream Chocolate Caramel is 
made in the same way, only cream is 
used instead of milk. Again, the 
Chocolate Caramel may be made sim- 
ply by dissolving four ounces of choc- 
olate in a little water and adding to 
a syrup made of one pound of sugar. 

To any of the above recipes, essence 
ot vanilla, orange or lemon may be 
added, in which case you will have 
Vanilla or Orange or Lemon or Cream 
(^aramels. In mining the Lemon 
(Caramels, however, grate the rind of 
the lemon with a lump of sugar, and 
then add to this the lemon Juice and 
water enough to dissolve the sugar. 
Stir the whole into the boiled Caramel 
a few minutes before taking from the 
fire. Orange and Lime Caramel may 
also be made from the fruits in this 
manner. 

Caramel Orann^s 

Oranges au Caramel. 

6 Oranges. 

2 Cups of Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Peel and quarter the oranges in 
their natural divisions, being careful 
not to break through the pith or al- 
low the juice to escape. Then string 
them on fine wire, or take up on the 
point of a hatpin and dip into tlie 
Caramel. When sufficiently coated, 
place them in the stove for a few 
minutes to dry and "Glacfie," or Glaze. 
(See recipe under Icings for Cakes, 
etc.) 

Caramel Chestnuts 

Marrong au Caramel. 

1 Pound of Chestnuts. 

2 Cups of Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Peel fine large Chestnuts, and 
transfix them on a hatpin or on small 
pointed sticks. Dip them in the Cara- 
mel, and then dry and Qlac4e them. 
(See Glac^e imder heading Icings for 
Cakes, etc.) 



(VXNDIES 
BONBONS 

Candy Drops 

Paatilles. 

1 Pound of Sugar. Water to Dilute. 

Flavoring Extract to Taste. 

These are favorite candies with the 
Creoles, and very easy to make. They 
may be of any size, a lozenge, a tablet 
or a drop, and they may also be of 
any color. Mash and sift one pound 
of sugar that has been doubly refined, 
first through a coarse and then 
through a fine sieve. Put in an earth- 
en vessel, and add the flavoring ex- 
tract, whether of lemon, orange, cin- 
namon, cloves, rose or violet or va- 
nilla or carmine. Dilute the sugar 
with a little water. It must not be 
too thin, or it will run, nor too thick, 
or it cannot be poured easily, but 
rather a nice stiff paste. Set the 
saucepan on the fire, being careful 
to select a saucepan that has a spout. 
As soon as the mixture begins to bub- 
ble up about the sides of the saucepan 
stir it once well and take from the 
fire, and drop it in small lumps 
through the spout of the saucepan 
upon sheets of tin, and let it stand 
two hours to dry. Then put in the 
stove a few seconds to finish drying. 
As the pastilles become hard and 
brilliant, take them out. else they will 
lose their flavor. 

Cream Pastilles 

PastUles d to Crhne. 

1 Pound of Fine White Confectionery 

Sugar. 

1 Tablespoonful of Vinegar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Lemon Extract. 

1 Teaspoonful of Cream of Tartar. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Water. 

Moisten the sugar with the water 
and set to boil. Add vinegar and 
Cream of Tartar. Let it boil till brit- 
tle. Then take from the Are and add 
the Lemon Extract. Turn quickly 
on a wet slab or buttered plates. When 
it begins to cool, pull till white, and 
then cut into small squares about a 
half inch in size. 

Orange Pastilles 

Paatilles a VOrange. 

The Strained Juice of 2 Oranges. 

H Ounce of Orangre Sugar. 

3^ Ounces of Coarse Sugar. 

To make the orange sugar, rub the 

rind of the oranges on the sugar and 

\dry. Then proceed to add the water 



330 



TfHK PICAYUNE CREOLiE COOK BOOK 



and three and a quarter ounces of 
sug^ar and flavoring. As soon as it 
begins to dissolve in the pan take a 
small wooden spoon and -stir it for a 
few minutes. Then remove it from 
the Are, stirring continuously, and 
drop the pastilles upon a sheet of 
paper, cutting them off in drops about 
the size of a pea with a curved piece 
of wire or a hairpin. Whfen they are 
quite dry turn the paper upside down, 
brush the reverse side with a paste 
brush slightly moistened with water, 
and shake off the pastilles with the 
point of a knife upon a dry sieve. 
Then move the sieve to and fro over a 
very slow fire, so that all the mois- 
ture may be removed from the drops, 
and keep them in well bottled Jars. 

The above recipe well serve as a 
guide for all Fruit or Essence Pas- 
tilles. 

Fruit Pastilles 
PaatUlea de Fruits. 

3H Ounces of Sugar. 
% Ounce of Any Fruit Juice. 

All pastilles with fruit juices may 

be made in exactly the same manner 

as' Orange Pastilles. Use one-half an 

ounce of Juice and three and a half 

ounces of sugar, and add a little more 

sugar if it appears liquid after taking 

from the fire. 

Giiiffcr Pastilles 

Paatilles de Oinoembre. 

^ Ounce of Lemon Juice. 

3Vi Ounces of Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Essence of Jamaica 

Ginger. 

Proceed In the same manner as for 

Orange Pastilles. 

Rose Pastilles 

Pastillea d la Rose. 

1 Ounce of Water. 

3Vi Ounces of Sugar. 

4 Drops of Essence of Roses. 

3 props of Cochineal. 

Proceed in the same manner as for 

Orange Pastilles. 

Marslimallow Drops 

Tahlets de Ouimauve. 

H Pound of White Gum Arabic. 

1 Pint of Water. 

The Whites of 4 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Extract of Vanilla. 

Dissolve the Gum Arabic in one 
pint of water and strain, and add one- 
half pound of the finest white sugar, 
and place over the fire, stirring con- 
stantly all the time until the syrup 
is dissolved. Then gradually add the 



whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Stir up the mixture until it be- 
comes thin and does not adliere to 
the fingers. Then flavor wltli tiie va- 
nilla and drop in rather sina.Il tablets 
upon a sheet dusted with powdered 
starch. Make the shape of tlie tablets 
slightly convex, and in two liours re- 
move from the papers, dry for a few 
minutes in the stove and put a^'ay for 
use. 

Peppermint Drops 

Pastilles A la Menthe. 

1 Cupful of Sugar. 
Vi Teaspoonful of Essence of Pepper- 
mint. A Pinch of Cream of Tartar. 

Crush the sugar very fine, and boil 
for five minutes with water Just suffi- 
cient to moisten. Then take from the 
fire, and add the Cream of Tartar, and 
after mixing well add the Essence of. 
Peppermint. Beat briskly until the 
mixture begins to whiten well, and 
then drop upon white paper and drj' 
in the open air. If it sugars before all 
is dropped add a little water and boll 
again for two minutea 

NOUGAT 

yougdt. 

10 Ounces of Sifted Sugar. 

1 Pound of Shredded Almonds, Dried. 

A Few Drops of Essence of Vanilla. 

Put the almonds on a baking sheet 
or plate in the slowest of ovens. 
I-.et them heat through and through. 
In the meantime, put the sugar in a 
pan or porcelain-lined saucepan, and 
set it on a moderate fire. Keep stir- 
ring with a wooden .spoon until it 
begins to melt. Then quicken the 
stirring, and as soon as the sugar be- 
gins to form upon the surface in 
small white bubbles, like pearls, im- 
mediately throw ix^the almonds. Stir 
all gently until thoroughly mixed, and 
then pour out on a wet marble slab, 
and flatten to one-sixth of an inch in 
thickness. As soon as it begins to 
thicken, cut into pieces of about three 
inches long and two wide, or, better 
still, if you have fancy molds^ line 
them thinly with the Nougat, having 
previously slightly buttered them on 
the inside. Cut the edges of the Nou- 
gat even and level before it becomes 
cold, for then it is brittle, and breaks 
easily. 

A very charming and elegant Cre- 
ole dessert is to take a dozen or so 
of the Nougats, form them into bas- 
kets with an ornamental Caramel 



T£t£ PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



831 



liandle, and fill each little basket with 
^whipped cream with two strawberries 
on top. Serve cold. 

Parisian Nou£:ats 

yougdta d la PariHenne, 

8 Ounces of Scalded or Split Pistachio 

Kernels. 6 Ounces of Sugar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla. 

A. Few Drops of Prepared Cochineal. 

Boil the sugar till brittle, and then 
add the Pistachio Kernels or Peanuts 
and the Cochineal. Add the flavoring 
and mix gently. Then pour the Nou- 
gat out on a marble slab, slightly 
buttered. Flatten it out by rolling 
with a hard lemon slightly rubbed 
with butter to prevent sticking. Roll 
to about one-sixth of an inch in thick- 
ness, and before it cools sprinkle all 
over with small heaps of granulated 
sugar, and a few seeded raisins or 
well cleaned currants. Press these 
lightly in with the fingers, and then 
divide the sheets of Nougat while 
hot into small diamond shapes about 
two and a half inches long and one 
in width. 



COMFITS 
DRAG^ES 

Almonds enter very largely into the 
composition of Drag6es, as also Gum 
Arabic. Dissolve the Gum Arabic in 
a saucepan with enough water to 
color it, and then set the saucepan 
over a moderate fire. Stir In the 
mixture of candy a liquid extract, 
whether of Vanilla, Peppermint, 
Lemon, etc., and then mix thoroughly 
till the solution is complete. Strain 
through a sieve, and then, with a wire 
shaped like a hairpin, cut the candy 
preparation into the tiniest pieces of 
various sizes and shapes, put them to 
cool on a marble slab which has been 
oiled with butter or wet, and after 
an hour or so set in the oven for a 
few minutes. In case they are not 
beautifully polished, give them an- 
other light coating with the solution 
of Gum Arabic. The next day give 
them a finer polish by putting them 
into a basin with a little solution of 
sugar and rose water and a little 
starch, allowing one part of starch to 
six of sugar. Swing the basin back 
and forth high over a very moderate 
fire, and continue until the Drag^es 
are quite dry. 

In making the Drag^es use the pro- 
portions given for Pastilles. 



Sugar Plums 

Dea Drag^cs 8ucr6e8. 

2 Pounds of Best Confectionery Sugar. 

Sufficient Water to Dissolve. 

1 Pound of Any Fruit. 

Sugar Plums, or crystallized fruits, 
are among the daintiest preparations 
of the Creole cuisine. They are the 
real "Bonbons" so highly prized by 
all Creoles. 

To crystallize fruits or candies in 
small quantities, take two pounds of 
the best sugar, and add suflicient 
water to dissolve it or to start it boil- 
ing. Liet it boil to a syrup. Place 
the fruit to be crystallized in a pan. 
and pour over, the syrup. Turn the 
fruit lightly by shaking the pan till 
every side is coated, and set to cool. 
When cool, pour off the syrup and 
set the pans on their sides, so that 
the syrup may be well drained off, 
and every side be coated with the 
crystallized mixture. It is always best 
to pour the syrup over the fruit while 
it is warm, as it takes a firmer hold 
and makes a brighter crystal, for it 
will not hurt the fruits if the crystal 
warms them enough to make then* 
very soft, as they will be all right 
when everything is cool. i 

Fruits and almond paste bonbons 
should always be softened by the hot 
syrup, and it is always best to pre- 
pare the fruits two days in advance 
so they will be sufficiently soft for 
a light crystal to form on them. 

Chocolate and other bonbons may 
be crystallized in the same way. 

Crystallized Oranges 

Oranges Criatallisiea. 

6 Oranges. 

2 Pounds of Sugar. 

Suflicient W ater to Dissolve. 

Crystallize oranges in quarters, 
keeping the skins from being punc- 
tured. Cherries, Strawberries and 
other berries are crystallized whole. 
Peaches and Apricots in halves, and 
so on. 

Crystallized Orange Blossoms 

Pleura d'Orangea Criatalliaiea. 
Pick the petals one by one from 
the flowers, and put them into water. 
Drain this ofiP, and then squeeze the 
flowers with your hands to bruise 
them, and drain on a sieve. Make a 
flne syrup, equal in bulk to the flow- 
ers, clarify it and add the flowers. Let 



332 



THE PICAYUNE CREX>IiE CXX>K: 0OOK 



the syrup boil up about seven times. 
Then remove it from the fire and let 
it stand till the sugar forms a coat- 
ing all around the petals. Then drain 
them, separate them on a paper for 
an hour or so, till perfectly dry, and 
then put in boxes lined with white 
paper, and keep in a cool, dry place. 

Crystallized Violets 

Violettes CrUtaUis6e9. 

1 Pound of Violet Petals, Freshly . 
Gathered. 
1 Pound of Sugar. 

Proceed in exactly the same man- 
ner as for Orange Blossoms, only do 
not squeeze the petals in your hands. 
These are among the daintiest of con- 
fections, and while they are very dear 
when purchased, they may be easily 
prepared at home. 

Crystallized Rose Petals 

FeuUlea de Rosea Cri8taUis€es, 

A Pound of Rose Petals. 
1 Pound of Susar. 

Select beautiful red or pink rose 
petals that have been freshly gath- 
ered, and proceed in exactly the same 
manner as for Crystallized Violets. 



Crystallized Watermelon 

Melon d'Eau CrUtalliB^. 
Take the bright red heart of the 
watermelon. Cut into dainty and 
fanciful forms, and place in a dish in 
the sun to dry. Make a syrup as di- 
rected above for Crystallized Fruits 
and with the point of a long hatpin 
or hairpin immerse the watermelon 
in it. Hang to dry from these points 
and you will have a beautiful crys- 
tallized fruit, the dainty pink and red 
of the melon showing through the 
transparent crystal icing. This is a 
beautiful confection for "red teas/' 
"pink dinners," etc., where red or 
pink predominates in the decorations. 



Cream Bonbons 

Bonbons d la Crhne. 

2 Pounds of the Finest White Icing 

Sugar. 

2 Ounces of Gum Arable. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

1 Gill of Any Essence Desired. 

These bonbons are prepared by 

soaking two ounces of Gum Arabic in 

a gill of hot water, and then using 

two pounds of the icing sugar, the 

whites of two eggs, a few drops of 



essence, and any icing, whetlier of 
Chocolate, Coffee, Orange Flo'wer or 
Liemon. according to taste. The so&ked 
gum must be strained through & piece 
of muslin bag into a bowl, a.n<l tike 
essence added to it, and then it must 
be filled in with as much icinKT sus it 
will hold, till It forms a stiff yet elas- 
tic body. Then fill a biscuit forcer 
with the vanilla preparation mentioned 
above, and push it through upon a 
sheet of paper well dredged witli su- 
gar. As the cream is forced througrh. 
cut it off into pieces of about the 
size of a filbert. Place them in the 
baking pan in the oven for a few 
minutes, merely to dry their surfaces, 
and then dip these white balls into 
the chocolate icing, holding one at a 
time on the tip of the fork, so sls to 
be able to turn it all around, and Ice 
each part. Then put them on a 'wire 
tray, and set to dry in the oven for 
about ten minutes. 



Chocolate Cream Bonbons 

Bonbons d la Crime de Chocolat. 

2 Pounds of Finest White Icing Su^ar. 

2 Ounces of Gum Arabic. 

The Whites of 2 Eggs. 

4 Ounces of French Chocolate. 

Soak two ounces of the pure.st Gum 
Arabic in a gill of hot water, then 
add two full pounds of the finest 
icing sugar, and the whites of two eggs. 
The soaked gum must be strained 
through a piece of muslin bag Into a 
bowl, and the essence added to it, and 
then it must be filled in with as much 
icing as it will hold, till it forms a 
stiff, elastic body. If it is desired to 
make Chocolate Creams, dissolve four 
ounces of French Chocolate with 
about a tablespoonful of water, and 
incorporate this with the whites of 
two eggs of Royal Icing. (See recipe.) 
Then fill a biscuit forcer with the va- 
nilla preparation mentioned above 
z.n6. push it through upon a sheet of 
paper, well dredged with sugar. As 
the cream is forced through, with 
a small knife cut it off into pieces of 
about the size of a filbert. Place them 
in the baking pan in the oven for a few 
minutes, merely to dry their surfaces, 
and then dip these white balls Into 
the Chocolate Icing, holding one at a 
time on the tip of the fork, so as to 
be able to turn it all around, and ice 
each part. Then put them on a wire 
tray, and set to dry in the oven for 
about ten minutes. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



383 



Orange Cream Bontxms • 

Bonbont d la Cr^me d* Orange. 

1 Ounce of Oranse Su'^ar. 
The Whites of 2 Effgrs. 

% Gill of Orange Flower Water. 

For Orange Flower Bonbons work 
tlie orange sugar, using one ounce. 
Mrith the whites of the eggs, and make 
£t Royal Icing. (See recipe.) Then 
work the gum. Orange Flower Water, 
using half a gill, and the icing sugar 
into a stiff paste, and proceed as in 
t'hocolate Creams. Anally covering 
with the Royal Icing, the white cream 
forming the interior of the Bonbons 
and the orange or yellow the outside. 

Cream Peanuts 

PiJttarhrs d la Crime. 

1 Pound of Fine White Sugar. 

1 Teacupful of Water. 

1 Tablespoon ful of Extract of Vanilla. 

% Pound of r'eanuts. Shelled. 

Boil the sugar and water till it 
comes to a thread. Flavor highly 
with extract of vanilla. Then take 
from the fire and stir until It Is a 
creamy white. Throw In the peanuts. 
Drop In a little white granulated su- 
gar. Then put them on a table on 
a piece of white paper, and shake 
well till each stands apart. Roll 
again lightly In white powdered or 
granulated sugar, and let them dry. 

IX>Z£NGES 

Des Pastilles. 

1% Pounds of Finest White Iclns* Sugar. 
2 Ounces of Qum Tragacanth. 

2 Ounces of Tepid Water. 

In making lozenges take one ounce 
of Qum Dragon or Gum Tragacanth, 
and soak It In two ounces of tepid 
water for about six hours. Then 
squeeze and .wring out through a 
cloth, and add about a pound and a 
half of fine Icing sugar and the de- 
sired essence and flavor the lozenges 
in the proportion of about two ounces 
of essence to the quantities above 
given. If peppermint flavor Is desired, 
use one teaspoonful. Then work this 
prepared gum on a marble slab, as 
you would knead dough, until It is 
firm and white, yet elastic. Gradually 
work In the sugar and add the essence 
and work till smooth and very elastic. 
Then roll the paste out with fine 
su^r dredged on the slab, and cut 
into dime-sized pieces, and also into 
diamond shapes. Place them In rows 
upon sugar-powdered baking sheets 



and dry In the oven. They must be 
kept In a well stopped jar In a cool 
place. Orange, (Hove, Lemon and 
Cinnamon Pastilles are all made in 
the same way. 



Cough Lozenges 

Pastilles pour la Toux. 
This book would not be complete 
without giving this famous old Creole 
Cough Lozenge. Take 

1 Ounce of Gum Dragon. 

2 Ounces of Orange Flower Water. 

2 Pounds of Fine Sugar Icing. 

50 Drops of Paregoric. 

20 Drops of Ipecacuanha. 

1^ Ounces Syrup of Squills. 

Work the gum on the slab with 

about one-third of the sugar, and then 

work in gradually the syrup of squills. 

After working well add the rest of the 

sugar and again work. Lastly add the 

Paregoric and the Ipecacuanha. Then 

proceed to finish these old-fashioned 

lozenges in the manner directed in 

the gen'eral recipe given above. * 



Sugar aA Employed In Candy Making 

Du Sucre. 

As mentioned above, always select 
' the best granulated loaf sugar for 
making candles. Beware of glucose. 
As a general rule, loaf sugar will do 
for all candy making wtlhout clarifi- 
cation. Brown or yellow sugars are 
used for Caramels, dark Pralines and 
pulled Molas.ses (Tandy generally. 

Sugar is boiled more or less, accord- 
ing to tKe kind of candies one wishes 
to make. It Is absolutely necessary 
to understand the proper degree of 
boiling If you wish to be successful In 
your eftorts In making fine candles 
at home. The degrees are respective- 
ly, "The Small Thread." "The Large 
Thread," "Blow," "Soft Ball." "Hard 
Ball," "Crack" and "(^armel." The fol- 
lowing carefully prepared recipes will 
prove Invaluable to the amateur: 

Sugar Boiling 

Le Cuisson du Sucre. 

3 Pounds of Sugar. 
1 Pint of Water. 

To every three pounds of sugar al- 
low a pint of water. Put to boll on 
a brisk fire, skim very carefully and 
wash on the sides with a hair bru.sh 
dipped in water to prevent the sugar 
from graining. 



384 



the: PICAYUNE GREX>IiEI COOK 300K 



Small Tliread 

Le Petit LU$^, 
3 Pounds of Sugar. 1 Pint of Water. 
Dip the forefinger into iced water, 
and then into the boiling sugar, and 
instantly again into the iced water, 
to prevent burning the finger. Then 
pinch the index finger and thumb 
together. If a small easily- broken 
thread forms, the right degree of 
cooking has been reached. 

Ijargc Thread 

Le Orand LU96, 
3 Pounds of Sugar. 1 Pint of Water. 
Boil the sugar. a little longer, and 
then try as before; if a thread forms 
that can be pulled two inches without 
breaking, it has been cooked enough. 
This is the best degree for preserves, 
etc. 

The Pearl 

La Orande et la Petite Perle. 
3 Pounds of Sugar. 1 Pint of Water. 
L.et the sugar boil a little longer. 
If you find that on drawing it out to 
a thread it snaps quickly, and also 
that while boiling it has bubbles 
almost like large pearls or globules 
on its surface, you will know it has 
reached the small pearl degree. When 
the peaHs become closely connected 
on the surface of the sugar, it has 
reached the large pearl degree. 

The Blow 

Le 8ouffl6. 
3 Pounds of Sugar. 1 Pint of Water. 
Continue boiling, and after a few 
minutes dip the skimmer in the boil- 
ing sugar. Strike it on the edge of 
the boiler. Blow through the holes, 
and you will find that if the sugar is 
of the right degree, it will form many 
small globules or air bubbles on the * 
other side. This is the best degree 
for creams, and also gives a rich 
flavor to Preserves. 

The Feather 

La Plume, 
3 Pounds of Sugar. 1 Pint of Water. 
Boll up the sugar a little longer, 
dip the skimmer in it, and on finding 
that it shivers into a thready fringe 
from the edge, you^will have what is 
called the "Feather." If the threads 
are large and stiff, it is called the 
•'Large Feather" or *'La Orande 
Plume." In a few minutes more they 



will have become small and flaky, 
when the "Small Feather," or •'La 
Petite Plume," is reached. 

The Soft Ball 

Le Petit Boulet. 

3 Pounds of Sugar. 
1 Pint of Water. 

Keep the sugar boiling. Dip the 

finger into iced water and then into 

the boiling sugar and immediately 

into the water again. If the sugar 

has enough consistency to form a 

small ball when rolled between the 

finger and the thumb, it has been 

•cooked enough. 

The Hard BaU 

Le Orand Boulet. 

3 Pounds of Sugar. 
1 Pint of Water. 

Continue the test, and if a firmer 
ball is formed, this degree is reached 

The Crack or Snap 

Le Casei. 

3 Pounds of Sugar. 
1 Pint of Water. 

Continue boiling, and dip the finger 
after a few moments in iced water 
and then in the boiling sugar, and in- 
stantly in the water again. The prop- 
er degree is reached when the sugar 
is placed between the fingers, and will 
not stick, or when distended it snaps 
hard and dry. The first degree is 
called "Little Crack," or "Le Petit 
Cass6," and the second is called 'The 
Big Crack," or "Le Grand Cass4." 
This is a good degree for Les Fruit* 
Glacis, etc. 

Caramel 

Caramel, 

3 Pounds of Sugar. 
1 Pint of Water. 

Continue boiling till the sugar 
becomes a light brown color. Then 
take it off immediately, or it will bum. 
Any boiling beyond this renders the 
sugar calcined and barely fit for cook- 
ing purposes. On taking the pot from 
the fire, set it at once in cold water 
to prevent the sugar from burning. 

To Clarify Sugar. 

Du Sucre Clarifi6. 
8 Pounds of Sugar. 1 Pint of Watep 

The White of 1 Egg. 

In clarifying sugar for Candles, take 

the whole white of an egg for brown 

sugar and half the white for refined 



XECE PIGAYUXE CR£OIi£ COOK BOOK 



335 



sugrar. Beat to a froth in a dish with 
about a cupful of water, adding it by 
decrees. Then put about eight pounds 
of sugar into a kettle, and dilute it 
ivith the half of the beaten egg. Let 
it become very thick. Set it over the 
fire, and let it boil up twice before 
you skim, it. Then skim and continue 
to add the egg by degrees, until the 
scum is perfectly white. Take the 
skimmer from the sugar, add another 
cup of cold water, to carry off any 
remaining scum, take it from the fire 
and strain. The sugar is then kept 
for use. 

CO]X>RIXG FOR CANDIES 

Candies may be colored beautifully 
-w^ith such harmless preparations as 
Cochineal, Carmine (when properly 
prepared). Spinach, Indigo, Saffron or 
Burnt Sugar. 

Cochineal 

Cochenille. 
Take one ounce of powdered Cochi- 
neal, one ounce of salts of tartar, one 
ounce of burnt alum, two ounces of 
Cream of Tartar, twelve ounces of 
sugar, and two quarts of soft water. 
Boil the water in a porcelain-lined 
vessel, and add the other ingredients. 
Remove from the fire, and then strain 
at once through a sieve or cloth, and 
bottle for use. 

Carmine 

Carmin, 

2 Gallons of Water. 

8 Drams of Powdered Alum. 

2 Drams of Bismuth. 

2 Drams of Nltro-Muriate of Tin. 

2 Drams of Nitric Acid. 

Carmine is made by pulverizing 
Cochineal in a stone mortar and put- 
ting it into water at nearly a boiling 
point. One ounce of Brazil wood, ob- 
tained from the druggist, and one 
ounce of powdered Cochineal are put 
into separate vessels with one quart of 
water each. The Cochineal is always 
put in the water in a linen rag. 

To make half a pound of the Car- 
mine used so extensively in Creole 
homes, simply pound the Cochineal 
in a mortar, add two gallons of water, 
and let it boil for an hour and a quar- 
ter. Then add about three drams of 
nitro-muriate of tin, made by taking 
two drams of nitric acid, two drams of 
muriatic acid and one dram of bis- 
muth, and dissolving under a gentle 
beat. Continue boiling the Cochineal 



ten minutes longer, then strain the 
mixture through a fine cloth, and let 
it stand for eighteen hours. Pour off 
the water, and add the solution of 
tin, in three pints of water, and let 
it stand for five days longer, changing 
the water every twenty -^four hours. 
When free from any taste or smell 
the Carmine has been sufficiently 
washed, and is ready for use. Put 
into china saucers and dry in the 
stove. 

Green (Spinach) 

Vert (Spinarda). 

1 Pound of Young Spinach. 
A Few Grains of Powdered Alum. 

Mash a pound of young Spinach 
to a pulp, and then carefully squeeze 
all the juice out of it. Set it to boil, and 
the moment it begins to curdle remove 
from the fire, and strain all the juice 
from it. Then add to the curd the 
same weight in sugar, a few grains 
of powdered alum, and a little alco- 
hol, and bottle for use. Keep in a 
cool place. 

Yellow (Saffron). 

Jaune (8afran). 

3 Ounces of Saffron. 

1 Ounce of Alum. 20 Ounces of Sugaf. 

1 Pint of Water. 

Take three ounces of Saffron, one 
ounce of powdered alum, twenty 
ounces of sugar, and one pint of 
water, and boil all together. Strain 
and add a little alcohol, and bottle for 
use. 

Orange 

Orange. 

1 Ounce of Yellow (Saffron). 
1 Ounce of Cochineal. 

This color is obtained by mixing 
equal quantities of yellow and red 
(Cochineal). 

Burnt Sugar 

Sucre BrUU. 

1 Pound of Granulated Sugar. 
1 Quart of Water. 

Set one pound of granulated sugar 
on the fire, and stir it well with a 
wooden spoon until thoroughly dis- 
solved and burnt black. Add one 
quart of water, and let it boil until 
thoroughly dissolved. Reduce to half 
the quantity and strain and bottle for 
use. To make colored sugar, add a 
little coloring and mix thoroughly. 
Then dry in an oven, and keep in a 
jar. 



336 



THK PICAYUNE CREOI^ COOK BOOK 



Vanilla Sugar 

Hucre d la VanUlv. 

2 Pounds of Loaf Sugrar. 
3 Vanilla Beans. 

Cut three vanilla beans into shreds. 

Let them dry. and then mash them 

with about two pounds of fine loaf 

sugrar. When reduced to a very fine 

powder, sift, put in a jar and cork 

tight. 



Lemon Sug^ar 

Sucre au Citron. 

The Hind of 3 Lemons. 
1 Pound of Loaf Sufirar. 

Orate the thin, outer rinds of th.e 

lemons on pieces of loaf sugar, and 

then set to dry. When dry, pound 

very fine, sift, and put In a jar and 

cork tight. Orange Sugar is prepared 

In the .same manner. 



CHAPTER XLVI 



CANNING OR 





loM 




^^ 




/•J"" 




Congvrration rfr» Snhstancca Alimcntairet et VdgetaU'9. 



The best method of pickling, and 
the surest, is to put the substance to 
be pickled in a glass bottle or a tin 
can that has been hermetically sealed, 
i\T\d subject it. to a temperature rang- 
ing from 80 to 100 degrees, in a water 
bath, or "bain-marie," always having 
been very careful to eliminate all air 
from the vessel before sealing it. 

The great success of canning and 
preserving is to exclude the air and 
to can while hot, filling each jar to 
the brim. Have your jars in a pan 
of hot water on the stove. Roll them 
in the hot water, and then fill imme- 
diately to the top with the hot boiling 
fruit or vegetables. Have the tops of 
the jars ready and heated, and seal 
quickly, screwing them down a little 
tighter and tighter as the ingredients 
cool and the glass consequently con- 
tracts. Keep the jars in a cool, dark 

place. 

Attention to a few rules will make 
It possible for each housekeeper, espe- 
cially the T^uislana country house- 
wife, to put up all her own goods, 
whether of vegetables or fruits or 
pickles. 

Canned Com 

Du Mais en Conncrve. 

8 Quarts of Corn. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard to Each Quart 

of Corn. 

Roil the corn on the cob until no 

milk will exude if the grains are 

pricked with a needle. Then cut the 

corn off the cob, and pack into cans 



or stone jars, putting first a layer of 
salt half an inch deep and then a 
layer of corn two inches deep, and 
continuing with these alternate layers 
until the jar is nearly filled. The top 
layer must be of salt, and about an 
inch thick. Pour over all this melted 
lard in proportion of about a table- 
spoonful to a quart of the corn. Set 
on the fire. In a bain-marie, and let 
all the bubbles come to the surface- 
Take off, stick a silver fork down into 
the jar, to see that all bubbles have 
ceased to form. Seal hermetically, 
and then set In a bain-marie, at a 
temperature of from 80 to 100 de- 
grees, and let It cool. Keep in a 
cool place, and use as wanted. 

Canned Tomatoes 

D€8 Tomates en Conserves. 

8 Dozen Tomatoes. 
A Bain-Marie. 

Pour boiling water over the Toma- 
toes to loosen the skins. Then peel 
them fully, and bring to a hard 
boil for twenty minutes. Then drain 
and can as quickly as possible, exclud- 
ing all air. Set In a bain-marie to 
cool, and keep in a cool, dark place. 

Canned Mushrooms 

Des Champignons en Conserve, 
8 Quarts of Mushrooms. 
Cook the mushrooms for three- 
quarters of an hour In salted water, 
drain lightly and can them, excluding 



XHE PICAYUNE CREX)IjE: COOK BOOK 



337 



a. 11 air. Stand in the "bain- marie," 
letting them cool gradually. Keep in 
a. cool place. 

CaniKHl Green Peas 

D€% Petita Poi9 en Conserve. 
1 Dozen Quarts of Green Peas. 
Select the youngest and most tender 
peas, put them in boiling water, and 
let them cook for about thirty min- 
utes. Drain lightly, and can immedi- 
ately, excluding all air. 

Other vegetables may be canned in 
almost the very same manner. 

PICKLiES 

I)V8 Vornichona. 

Pickles should not be made in ves- 
sels of brass, copper or tin, and should 
always be put up in glass bottles or 
hard stoneware. Only the best \ine- 
gar should be used and It should 
be scalded before it is put with pickles, 
otherwise it will not keep well. This 
is a fact that must be remembered if 
you would be successful. 

In sour pickles use only the best 
cider vinegar. Never boil it, but 
simply bring it to the boiling point, 
before you pour it over the pickles. 
Always add a small piece of alum to 
Cucumber or Gherkin Pickles, if you 
wish them to be a beautiful green 
and very crisp. 

Never use any but a wooden spoon 
in putting up pickles, and be careful 
in the use of spices, so that no one 
flavor will predominate, but that all 
will unite in a most agreeable whole. 

Pickles must be kept in a cool, dark 
place, and always well covered with 
vinegar. 

The jars should be examined at fre- 
quent intervals. If white specks make 
their appearance in the vinegar, draw 
it off, scald and add, if the pickles are 
sweet, two tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
a few cloves. 



Sweet Pk'kl€*s 

Comichona Sucrra. 

100 Small Cucumbers. 

3 Dozen Black Pepners. 

1 Dozen Allspice. 

1 Dozen Blades of Mace. 

3 Dozen Cloves. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 

I Gallon of Boiling Vlne<»'ar. 

Wash the Cucumbers, selecting nice 

small ones, about as long as a flnger. 

Cover them with a very strong brine, 



put a cover on the Jar, and let them 
stand for about three days. Then take 
them out and .throw away the brine, 
rejecting all the pickles that have be- 
come soft in the process. Put them 
in a pot of fresh water, and add a 
little powdered alum, allowing about 
a quarter of a teaspoonful, or a piece 
about half the size of a bird's egg, 
to one gallon of liquid. Put a* close 
lid over the boiler, and steam well, 
without letting them boil, for about 
four or five hours. To one hundred 
small cucumbers or a gallon, allow 
three dozen black peifpers, one dozen 
blades of mace, three dozen cloves, 
one dozen allspice, all whole, and one 
cup of sugar. Boil five minutes. Place 
the pickles in Jars, and pour over 
them the boiling vinegar. These pickles 
must then be corked closely. Three 
days later draw off all this vinegar, 
boil again, and again pour it over 
the pickles. Repeat this operation 
three times, at intervals of about 
three or four days. Then cover with 
a stout cloth, cork with a wooden or 
cork stopper, and In about two months 
the pickles will be ready for use. Ex- 
amine from time to time. 



Soiir Pickles 

Comichona an Vinaigre, 

100 Small Cucumbers. 

A Boiling Brine. 24 Whole Spices. 

1 Ounce of Mustard Seed. 

12 Small Red Pepners. 

6 Blades of Mace. 

S Cloves. 2 Onions. 

Put about 100 small Cucumbers in 
a Jar. Cover them with very strong, 
boiling brine. Let them stand for 
several days. Then take them 
out of the brine, wipe them well, and 
place them in clean Jars. Add two 
dozen whole spices, one ounce of 
mustard seed, and six blades of mace, 
eight cloves, two chopped onions and 
the red peppers. Cover them with 
boiling vinegar and cork. In several 
weeks they will be ready for use. 

If you wish the pickles to be very 
green, put them into cold vinegar, 
and let them heat slowly till they 
are green; or, after their fourth day 
in the brine, pour this off and line 
the bottom of an agate kettle with 
fig and grapevine leaves, put the cu- 
cumbers in, with a small piece of 
alum, cover them closely with the 
vine leaves, and pour in cold water 
sufficient almost to All the kettle. 



3S8 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE C€K>K OOOK 



Cover tightly with an inverted pan or 
a dish, and let them steam slowly for 
four or five hours, till they are green. 
Now take them out of the kettle, 
drain, season as above, pour over 
them boiling vinegar, boil for five 
minutes, and bottle them for future 
use. 

Home- Made Chow-Chow 

Tarientea d la Moutarde. 

1 Head of Cauliflower. 
% Head of Cabbage, Cut as for Slaw. 

1 Quart of Tiny Cucumbers, the Very 

Smallest Kind. 
1 Quart of Small Button Onions. 

2 or 3 Pods of Green and Red Peppers, 

Chopped Fine. 
^ Pound of French Mustard. 
H Teacupful of Celery Seed. 
1 Teacupful of Horseradish. 

1 Whole Garlic, Minced Very Fine. 

1 Pint of String Beans. 

1 Gill of Salad Oil. 

% Gallon of Vinegar. 

2 TablesDoonfuls of Mustard Seed. 

1 Cupful of Brown Sugar. 
% Ounce of Tumeric. 

Shred the cabbage as for cold slaw, 
and cover the bottom of a stone jar 
with the cucumbers and the cabbage. 
Then cover with a brine of salt and 
water strong enough to float an egg. 
I^et this stand for twenty-four hours. 
At the end of that time boil the 
cauliflower, the onions and the beans 
in separate pots till tender. Then 
drain ofC all water. Mix them with 
the cucumbers and the cabbage. Put 
the vinegar into a porcelain-lined ket- 
tle, and let it come to a boil. Add 
the mustard seed, the celery seed, the 
grated horseradish, the minced garlic 
and the pepper pods,' cut fine. Let 
all boil for about five minutes, stirring 
constantly till it begins to thicken. 
Then add the sugar and make a paste 
of the Tumeric, the mustard and the 
salad oil, moistening with a little cold 
vinegar, and put it in the mixture. 
Stir well and pour while boiling hot 
over the vegetables. Put it away in 
stone jars, and in about ten days it 
will be ready for use. 



Piekled Cauliflower 

Chour-Flevrs Confita au Yinaiffre. 

3 Dozen Cauliflowers. 

To Each Quart of Vinegar 2 Teaspoon- 

fuls of Mustard and Half a Cup 

of White Sugar 

Boil the Cauliflower for about twen- 
ty minutes in salt and water; then 
remove, drain, and break up care- 



fully, and let them get cold. Pack in 
a jar and pour over them hot Spiced 
Vinegar (see recipe), which you liave 
strained, after having first stirred in 
each quart of vlnegrar two teaspoon- 
fuls of French mustard and a half cup 
of white sugar. Cover the Cauliflower 
well with the mixture and bottle tlglit. 



]!^Iixecl Pickles 

Variant es. 

1 Head of Cauliflower. 
^ Head of Cabage, Cut as for Sla-w. 

1 Quart of Tiny Cucumbers, the Very 

Smallest Kind. 

1 Quart of Small Button Onions. 

2 or 3 Pods of Green and Red Peppers, 

Chopped Fine. 

% Pound of French Mustard. 

% Teacupful of Celery Seea. 

1 Teacupful of Grated Horseradisli. 

1 Whole Garlic, Minced Very Fine, 

1 Pint of String Beans. 

1 Gill of Salad Oil. 

% Gallon of Vinegar. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Mustard Seed. 

1 Cupful of BroWn Sugar. 
y» Ounce of Tumeric. 

Boil till very tender young cauli- 
flower heads, small onions, peppers, 
cucumbers cut In dice, nasturtiums 
and string beans, in the proportions 
given above. Drain very dry, and pack 
In wide-mouthed bottles. Boil in one 
pint of elder vinegar, one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of 
salt and two tablespoonfuls of mus- 
tard seed and spices. Pour this on 
the pickles, mix, and seal carefully. 



Gre<?n Pepper Pickles 

Pimenta Verts Con fits au Vinaiffre. 

2 Dozen Green Peppers. 

1 Dozen Red Peppers. 

^ Large Head of Cabbage. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Mustard Seed. 

1 Teaspoonful of Ground Cloves. 

1 Tablespoonful of Ground 

Allspice. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Salt. 

Cut the tops from the peppers and 
remove the seeds. Then put a tea- 
spoonful of salt into each pepper, 
cover with cold water, and soak for 
twenty-four hours. Chop the cabbage 
very fine, and mix Well with the 
ground spices, mustard seed and salt. 
When thoroughly blended stuff the 
peppers with this mixture. Then put 
on the tops, stand them upright in 
stone jars, and cover with cold vine- 
gar. In handling the peppers use a 
napkin or gloves, as they will blister 
the hands. 



1HE PICAYUNE CREOLiE COOK BOOK 



339 



Green Tomato Pickles 

Tomatca Vcrta Conftts au Vinaigre. 

1 Peck of Green Tomatoes. 
1 Dozen Onions. 1 Ounce of Cloves. 

1 Ounce of Mustard Seed. 
1 Tablespoonful of White Mustard 

Seed. 

1 Cupful of Salt. 

*2 Teaspoonful of Red Pepper, or the 

Pods Cut Into Strips. 

1 Ounce of Cloves. 

1 Ounce of Black Pepper. 

Slice the tomatoes and the onions. 
Then put a layer of tomatoes and a 
layer of onions, sprinkle over with 
salt, and continue till all are used up. 
Let them stand over night. In the 
morning drain ofC all the liquor that 
has accumulated, and put the vege- 
tables into a porcelain-lined pot with 
all the other ingredients, and cover 
with two quarts of vinegar. Let all 
simmer gently for a quarter of an 
hour, and then put away in stone 
jars, letting the vinegar cover the 
pickles. 

This recipe is for Sour Green To- 
mato Pickles. The Sweet Green To- 
mato Pickles are made by adding one 
cup of sugar to the above ingredients. 

Pickled Mangoes 

Mangos Confits au Vinaigre. 

24 Pepper Mangoes or Young Melon 

Mangoes or Muskmelons. 

A Piece of Alum the Size of a Pecan. 

% Pound of Ginger. 

H Ounce Each of Black Pepper, 

Mace, Allspice, Turmeric. 

^4 Pound of Garlic. 

% Pint of Grated Horseradish. 

^ Pint Each of Black and White Mus« 

tard Seed. 

^ Teacupful of the Best Olives. 

^ Head of Fine Young Cabbage. 

4 Green Tomatoes. 

Take two dozen Pepper Mangoes or 

young Muskmelons that are no larger 

than an orange. Let them lie for 

two weeks in a brine strong enough 

to float an egg. Then soak them in 

pure water for two days, changing the 

water each day. Remove the seeds 

by cutting a slit down the side of the 

Mangoes, but do not take the meat 

out. Rinse in cold water. Put a layer 

of green grape leaves in a kettle, and 

put on this a layer of Mangoes, and 

then a layer of leaves, and so continue 

tin all are used up. Let the top layer 

be of grape leaves. Now add a piece 

of alum about the size of a pecan, 

and pour vinegar over the mixture, 

and let all boil for fifteen or twenty 

minutes. Then take out the leaves. 

and let the Mangoes remain in this 

vinegar for five or six days. Prepare a 



stuffing of half a pound of ginger, cut 
into very small pieces and soaked in 
brine for two days; one-half an ounce 
each lOf black pepper, mace, allspice. 
Turmeric; one-quarter of a pound of 
garlic, which has been soaked in brine 
for twenty- four hours and dried; a 
half pint of grated horseradish, and 
a half pint each of black and white 
mustard seed. Bruise all the spices 
well till fine, and mix them with a 
half teacupful of the best olive oil. 
Take a half head of fine solid cab- 
bage, and chop fine; add a half pint 
of finely chopped onions, a few small 
cucumbers, and a few green tomatoes, 
which have lain in brine overnight. 
Drain all well and then select any im- 
perfectly shaped mangoes, or any that 
have become too soft to stuff, and 
chop these fine with the spices; mix 
all this stuffing well together, and 
stufC the mangoes. Tie them with 
pieces of twine, or sew them up, put 
in a stone jar, and pour over them 
the very best cider vinegar. Set them 
in a dry place and cover well. At the 
end of a month add a pound and a 
half of brown sugar, and bottle them 
for use. This preparation will keep 
for two years. 



Pickled Onions 

Oignons au Vinaigre. 

100 Small Onion Buttons. 

1 Tablespoonful of Allspice. 

1 Tablespoonful of Black Pepper and 1 

Red Pepper Pod to Each Pint of 

Vinegar. 

1 Dozen White Pepper Corns. 

1 Dozen Cloves. 

4 Blades of Mace. 

Select the smallest white button 
onions. Remove the outer skin, and 
then remove the inner skin with a 
silver knife. Steel will blacken the 
onions. Pack them in well washed 
and carefully dried jars. Then pour 
over the onions^ a strong brine, and 
let them- stand for twenty-four hours. 
At the end of this time pour off this 
brine and add another, and let them 
stand twenty-four hours longer. On 
the fourth day make another strong 
brine, and let it come to a boil, then 
throw in the onions, and let them boil 
Just five minutes. Then soak them 
in very cold water for several hours. 
After three hours drain off the 
water and pack closely in jars, allow- 
ing one tablespoonful of black pepper 
and a red pepper pod to every pint 
of vinegar. While packing the onions. 



340 



THE PICAYl'NE CREOIi£ CXX>K BOOK 



Intersperse tbem with white pepper 
corns and the spices, with an occa- 
sional piece of mace or cloves. Fill 
the jars with the scalding vinegar, and 
cork or bottle while very hot. 

If you desire the pickles to be 
slightly sweet, allow a tablespoonful 
of sugar to every pint of \inegar. After 
three weeks they will be ready for 
use, but, like all pickles, will be bet- 
ter if allowed to stand a month or 
two. 

Pickled String Beans 
Haricots Verts Con fit 8, 

To 'Every 7 Pounds of Beans Allow 1 

. Quart of Best Cider Vinegar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Alum. 

1 Ounce of Cloves. 

6 Red Pepper Pods. 

Cut the ends off young, tender 
beans, and string carefully. Soak 
them in fresh water for several hours. 
Wash carefully, drain, and put them 
into earthen jars. Pour on them 
boiling vinegar, spiced as for Tomato 
Pickle, and allow one-quarter of a 
teaspoonful of powdered alum to each 
quart of vinegar. Cover and cork 
well. Three days later, pour off this 
vinegar, boil well again, pour it over 
the pickles, and let them stand again 
for three days. Add a few cloves and 
pieces of red pepper pods, and bottle 
closely. 

Young cauliflower, radishes, white 
and red; young corn and melons that 
have just begun to form may be pick- 
led according to the above recipe. 

Pickled Fruits 

Fruits Confits au Vinaigre. 

6 Pounds of Fruit. 

3 Pounds of White Sugar. 

1 Pint of Best Cider Vinegar. 

1 Ounce Each of Cloves. Allspice, Mace 

and Cinnamon. 1 Nutmeg. 

In pickling fruits, whether peaches, 
pears, plums, damsons or cherries, al- 
low six pounds of fruit, three pounds 
of white sugar and one pint of the 
best vinegar, and spices and mace, 
cinnamon cloves, allspice and nutmeg 
in proportion. Put the fruit into a 
kettle with alternate layers of sugar 
and spices, and add the vinegar. Let 
all boil for about five minutes, and 
then skim out the fruit and pack in 
glass jars as it begins to cool. Let 
the syrup boil till thick, and then 
pour it over the pickles. Bottle 
tight and examine from time to time. 
If they show signs of fermenting open 
the jars or set them uncovered in a 
kettle of boiling water, and heat the 



contents till they begin to bubble and 
then cork them again. 

In pickling cherries, alw^ays leave 
the stems on the cherries, and to 
every quart allow a pint of vinegar 
and two large teaspoonfuls of sugar. 
a dozen cloves and allspice, and five 
or six blades of mace. Let the vine- 
gar and spices boil together for about 
five minutes, and then turn into 
an earthen jar and let them cool. Then 
strain and fill the pickle jars witli the 
cherriiBs about three-quarters full, and 
pour the cold vinegar over them. Bot- 
tle tight, and keep in a cool place. 

Sweet Tomato Pickles are put up 
by using the ingredients mentioned 
above, allowing, however, a pint and 
a half of vinegar to the above Quan- 
tities of sugar and fruit. Steiv the 
tomatoes, vinegar and spices together 
for about three-quarters of an liour. 
and then bottle for use. 

Pickled Watermelon Rind 

Hcorces de Melon d'Eau Oonfites a« 

Vinaiffre. 

4 Pounds of Watermelon Rind. 
V^ Pint of Best French Vinegar. 
1 Pound of Brown Sugar. 
1 Tablespoonful of Mixed Ground Cloves. 
Mace, Cinnamon and Allspice. 
Cut the watermelon rind into stripa 
cook in clear water and drain. To 
four pounds of rind take one pound 
of brown sugar and half a pint of 
\inegar, and make a syrup, to which 
add the ground spices. Boil the water- 
melon rind in this syrup till quite 
tender. Put in jars whle hot and 
seal. This is a sweet pickle. 

Oherril Vinegar 

Cerfeuil au Vinaigre. 

1 Pint of Dried or Fresh Chervil Leaves. 
1 Quart of Best French Vinegar. 

Half fill a wide mouthed bottle 

with either fresh or dry Chervil 

leaves. Fill to the top with 

the best vinegar, and set it in hot 

water till it reaches the boiling point 

Then remove from the fire. When 

cool cork, and in about two weeks 

it will be ready for use. The Creoles 

use this vinegar to add a fiavoring to 

sauces for salads. 

Pepper Vinegar 

Vinaigre PimentS. 

Vi Pint of Small Cherry or Chili 

Peppers. 

Vi Pint of Best French Vinegar. 

Every Creole housewife keeps on 

hand a bottle of Pepper Vinegar. It 



rmJEl PICAYUNE CIUSOIiE COOK BOOK 



841 



iB made by flllins a pint bottle about 
lia.lf full of small Cherry Peppers or 
Olitli Peppers, red and srreen, and then 
filling up with the best French vine- 
gar or cider. Bottle well, and in 
al30Ut a week it will be ready for use. 
A. peculiarity about this Pepper Vine- 
gar is that the bottle may be filled 
again and agrain as it diminishes, 
vritliout adding new peppers. It is 
very strong and hot, and a few drops 
in one's soup or salad will be found 
Quite sufficient. 

TaiTagon Vinegar 

Vinaiffrc d VE$iragon. 

H Pint of Tarragon Leaves. 
1 Quart of Best Cider. 

The best French Vinegar is made 

from the Tarragon leaves. The French 

gather the leaves and expose them to 

tlie heat of the sun for several days. 

then they throw them into the best 

cider and steep for about two weeks. 

The liquor is then carefully strained. 

a flannel bag being generally used. 

and it is afterwards bottled, corked 

and sealed, and kept in a cool place. 

Spiced Vinegar 

Vinaigre AromatU6. 

1 Pound of Sugar. 

1% Gallons of the Best Cider. 

1 Ounce Each of Cloves. Allspice, Mace, 

Celery and Mustard Seed. 

IH Ounces Each of Black Pepper, 

Turmeric and White Ginger. 

Mix all the spices together with the 
vinegar and the bits of ginger, and 
place in an earthen Jar and cover 
closely. 

For smaller proportions take one 
quart of cider vinegar, and put it into 
one-third of an ounce each of dried 
mint, dried parsley, one grated gar- 
lic, two small onions, two cloves, one 
teaspoonful of pepper, one of grated 
nutmeg, salt to taste, and one table- 
spoonful of sugar. Put all into a Jar. 
and let it stand for three weeks; then 
strain and bottle. 

Tabasco 

Tabasco d la Criole, 

8 Dozen Large Red Peppers. 

1 Clove of Garlic. 

yi Pint of Hot Spiced Vinegar. 

This is one of the most famous of 
our Creole sauces. It is made from 
the celebrated Louisiana Tabasco Pep- 
pers of unsurpassed flavor. These 
hot peppers are much sought after. 



Take three dozen large red Tabasco 
peppers or Chili peppers, and one 
clove of garlic, chopped very flne, and 
scald them until very tender. Then 
mash the peppers and garlic together 
and press them through a sieve. 
Dilute ,the paste thus formed with 
spiced vinegar till it reaches the 
consistency of rich cream. Bottle and 
seal for use. The garlic may be 
omitted. 



Creole Red Pepper Cateup 

Sauce de Poivre Rouge d la Oriole, 

4 Dozen Pepper Pods. 

2 Quarts of Best French Vinegar. 

8 Tablespoonfuls of Grated Horseradish. 

6 Onions. 1 Garlic. 

Take four dozen pods of ripe green 

peppers, two quarts of vinegrar, one 

of water, three tablespoonfuls of 

grated horseradish, five onions, sliced. 

and one garlic. Boil all together till 

the onions are very soft. Then mash 

all together to a paste and strain. 

rubbing through a sieve till nothing 

remains but the seeds and skins. 

When cold, bottle and cork tightly for 

use. 

Maunsell-White 

This is a famous Creole preparation 
and it bears the name of the family 
that originated it. In Maunsell-White 
the infusion of Cayenne is so hot that 
only a few drops suffice, but the taste 
is pungent and stimulative to the pal- 
ate, and is especially agreeable when 
eating oysters with Oyster Bread, or 
"Hard Tack." 



Salted Almonds 

Amandes Salies, 

1 Pint of Almonds. 
1 Tablespoonful of Salt. 

Shell about a pint of almonds, and 
then blanch or scald them in boil- 
ing water till the skin comes off very 
easily. Dry well, and place in a flat 
tin dish; add about an ounce of but- 
ter, and set the plate in a moderate 
oven until the almonds are a golden 
brown. Then take them out of the 
oven, add a heaping tablespoonful of 
salt, stir them round and round, or 
according to the way in which the 
almonds pick up the salt, dredging 
quickly with the salt, and turn them 
into a dish to cool. Pick out the al- 
monds, and throw aside the extra 
salt When cool, place in a box for 



342 



TM£ PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



use, covering tightly. The salt maj- 
be added when the almonds are first 
put in the oven. Be careful to stir 
frequently while they are in the oven, 
so that they may be equally browned 
on all sides. Almonds prepared after 
this manner are delicious. 

Another way to prepare Salted Al- 
monds is to put the whole blanched 
almonds on a baking sheet, and roast 
them nicely in a hot oven to a 
slight brown. Then make a solution 
of Qum Arabic and water and wet 



the almonds with it. Dust over tlieni 
very finely powdered and sifted t&ble 
salt, and stir well but gently till dry. 

Salted Peanuts 

» Des Pistaches 8al6e». 

1 Pint of Whole Peanuts. 
1 Tablespoonful of Salt. 

ITse blanched, whole peanuts, ajid 
proceed in exactly the same manner 
as in the last recipe given for Salted 
Almonds. 



CHAPTER XLVII 




De Pains (k la Creole. 



Perhaps no branch of cookery so 
interests visitors to New Orleans as 
our Creole Breads. While in break- 
fast recipes, such as batter cakes, 
flannel cakes, wafHes, buckwheat 
cakes, biscuit, etc., we have much in 
common with other sections, there is 
a distinctiveness about our •'Brioch- 
es." "Babas." "Calas," "Sacramit^s," 
"Sweet Potato Bread," French Loaves, 
French Rolls, etc., which are peculiar 
to ourselves alone. Our "Baker's 
Bread," or "Pain de Boulanger," of it- 
self stands unique among the breads 
of the United States, and has been the 
subject of more than one interesting 
newspaper and magazine article. It 
has this peculiarity, that one never 
tires of It, as one does of other breads, 
the reason for this being that it is 
white and tender, of an even porous 
character, with a thin, crisp crust, and 
is just such a bread as is required in 
our climate. Made into toasts, it is 
the most delightful of all breads. 

How to l^fake and Bake Bread 

Bread, to be perfect, should be light 
and sweet, with a rich, nutty flavor of 
the wheat. To obtain this result, only 
the best flour and the best dough must 
be used. While the bread is rising the 
temperature of the oven should be 
about 75 degrees Fahrenheit, and the 



heat in baking should be usually 
about 360 degrees, or hot enough to 
raise the inside of the bread to about 
220 degrees. This is necessary to cook 
the starch, expand the carbonic gas. 
steam and air. and also to drive off 
the alcohol which is used in the yeast. 
The bakers in New Orleans have a 
way of testing the temperature of the 
oven by putting a piece of white pa- 
per in it. If it turns dark in five min- 
utes the oven is of the right tempera- 
ture. If it burns, the oven Is too hot, 
and must be cooled before putting In 
the bread; but if the paper is only a 
light brown at the end of five min- 
utes, the oven must be made hotter. 
Again, a little flour is sprinkled in 
the oven, and if it browns or smokes 
before you can count ten. the oven is 
too hot; if it browns at ten, the oven 
is of the right temperature. 

Brick ovens are often used, and 
the loaves of bread are shoved in, 
generally on baking boards. 

Rolls are always baked first; then 
the bread, and afterwards the pies 
and cakes. It is best to have the oven 
heated in time and closed for one hour 
at least before beginning to bake. 

Bread should be in the oven about 
ten minutes before it begins to brown. 
When done, remove carefully from the 
pan, and tip it against a bread board. 
Just as they do in New Orleans bake- 



TKE: PICAYrNK CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



343 



ries. This allows the air to circulate 
freely around it. Never cover bread 
that has been recently baked, If you 
wish it to be fresh and sweet and 
crisp. 

The New Orleans bakers always use 
( 'ompressed Yeast for leavening bread 
SIS It does not necessitate making a 
ferment or setting spongre before mix- 
ing- the douKh. 

Bakers' Broad 

Pain dr Boulangcr. 

1 Ounce of Compressed Yeast. 

IV^ Ounces of Salt. 

2 Quarts of Water. 

Flour Sufficient to Make a Smooth 

DoufiTh. 

Allow one ounce of Compressed 
Yeast to one quart of lukewarm water 
and mix well in a wooden bread 
trough. Then add flour enough to 
make a nice smooth dough of medium 
degree, not too stiff, nor yet too soft. 
Work it well, and then let It stand 
for about five hours in a warm place, 
so as to rise well. When It drops, 
or begins to fall (you can tell this 
by watching the sides of the dough), 
add the same amount of water that 
was used in making the dough, put- 
ting two teaspoonfuls of salt into the 
water before adding it. Work this 
well, then throw it down on the 
table, cut and mold It neatly into 
loaves of whatever length is desired, 
then take a smooth stick and press 
lightly down across the loaf about two 
Inches from the edge. The bakers 
put the loaves Into the oven without 
setting them In a pan. Be careful to 
have the oven of the temperature 
mentioned above. 

The above quantity will make about 
Ave loaves. 

French Bread 
Pain Frangais. 

1 Ounce of Yeast. 

1^4 Ounces of Salt. 2 Quarts of Water. 

1% Ounces of Susrar. 

Flour Sufficient to Make a Smooth 

Dough. 

Dissolve the yeast, salt and sugar 
with the water and mix in flour suffi- 
cient to make a nice smooth dough 
of medium degree, not too stiff, nor 
yet too soft. Work until It no longer 
adheres to hand or bowl, and then 
cover It with a cloth and set to rise 
until it has doubled Its size. This will 
be in about four or five hours. When 
It begins to sink, work it well again 
and set it to rise anew. When well 



risen divide the dough into ^qual 
pieces, and mold into round ball 
shapes, or into long loaves of about 
two inches in thickness. Lay the 
loaves on a board previously sprinkled 
with flour, setting them far enough 
apart not to touch one another, and 
set to rise again. Let them rise to 
nearly double the previous size. Have 
the oven heated, transfer the loaves 
Into It, wash over with eggs mixed 
with water, make diagonal cuts half 
way across on each loaf, half way 
through, and close the oven. When 
baked brush off the flour, wipe the 
tops with a damp cloth and the bread 
is ready to serve. 

Pan Bread 

Pain dr Pdque. 

1 Ounce of Compressed Yeast. 

% Pound of Lard. 

2 Quarts of Water. 

IH Ounces of Salt. 

Flour Sufficient to Make a Smooth 

Dough. 
1% Ounces of Sugar, If Desired. 

This is a nice, large-loafed bread. 

with a dainty crust, that is somewhat 

glutinous, and, as the name indicates. 

Is invariably baked In a pan. It 

is remarkable for the daintiness of 

grain of the bread after baking. Make 

the same dough as for Bakers' Bread. 

only work the loaves twice over; then 

put them In the oven and dredge 

lightly with flour. As they begin to 

rise make a light paste of flour and 

water or egg and water and spread 

very lightly over them. Then they 

are brushed lightly with lard, to keep 

from getting too crusty. Bake in a 

rather hotter oven than Is needed for 

the other bread. 

Fmich Ix>aves 

Dra Pctits Pain8 Frangais. 

1 Ounce of Compressed Yeast. 

2 Quarts of Water. 

1% Ounces of Salt. 

Flour Sufficient to Make a Smooth 

Dough. 

The.^se are the dainty little loaves 

Fo generally used In our New Orlean.s 

restaurants and hotels. Make tho 

dough as in Bakers' Bread, and after 

It has risen and begins to drop, scale 

the dough off, and cut and shape it 

into little loaves of about the length 

of a man's hand. Mold them round 

and .set them to rise again. When 

they are very light, which will be in a 

few minutes, take them up and work 



344 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



them well separately, dnd then mold 
them agrain and gently press in the 
center with a smooth stick. Lay them 
in a box with a stiff cloth over them, 
and let them lie for a few minutes. 
Take off the cloth and set them in the 
oven to brown nicely. Set to cool as 
above indicated. 

Twist IXMtTes 

Pain Tre99i. 

1 Ounce of Compressed Yeast. 

2 Quarts of Water. 

1% Ounces of Salt. 

Flour Sufficient to Make a Smooth 

Douffh. 

Make the same dough as for 
"Bakers' Bread." After the first ris- 
ing and throwing in of water and 
working the bread, cut the dough, and 
divide each portion Into three equal 
pieces. Dust this dough well with 
parched flour and roll the pieces into 
lengths of about two feet, or a foot 
and a half, and plait them. Then lay 
them in a long box or on a board, 
and cover with a stiff cloth, as in 
French Lioaves. and let them lie till 
they begin to rise. Place in the oven 
and bake to a nice brown. 

Ryo Bread 

Pain de Seigle. 

1 Ounce of Compressed Teast. 

2 Quarts of Water. 

134 Ounces of Salt. 

Rye and Flour Sufficient to Make a 

Smooth Dough. 

A Few Kummel Seeds. 

Make the dough a little stiffer than 
for White Bread, allowing one-half 
of wheat flour and one-half rye. Allow 
the same amount of yeast, and add a 
few Kummel seeds and a little more 
salt than for White Bread. Set to 
rise. After one rising work again as 
in Bakers' Bread, divide it into loaves, 
and set it to rise again. When about 
twice its original size bake in a mod- 
erate oven. 

Home-Madc Creole lilght Bread 

Pain de Menage d la CrSole, 

2 Quarts of Flour. 

H Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

IH Pints of Milk or Water. 

Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Tablespoon ful of Lard. 

Sift the flour. Then put it in a 
wooden bread trough or a pan, and 
make a hole in the center of the flour. 
Add warm water or milk sufllcient to 
make a nice, smooth, rather stiff bat- 
ter. Mix the yeast with a little tepid 



water till well dissolved, and add. 
Then set to rise over night in a warm 
place. In the morning take up and 
again make a hole in the center of 
the dough, and add half a tablespoon- 
ful of melted lard or butter, one ajid 
one-half teaspoonfuls of salt, and one 
and one-half pints of warm milk or 
water, knead well about ten times 
and when it forms a smooth dough, 
shape it into a cake, and set to rise 
again. When risen to about twice its 
size take up and knead again about 
Ave times, that is, work one piece of 
dough over the other about five 
times, and set to rise again. Always, 
when setting to rise, sprinkle the 
bottom of the pan with a little flour. 
After an hour take up the bread 
and knead for about ten minutes, till 
you have a nice dough, that can be 
worked without sprinkling the biscuit 
board with flour. Then form the 
dough into two loaves. Place them 
side by side in the baking pan, and 
bake in a moderate oven for about 
three-quarters of an hour. Serve hot 
or cold. 

Milk Bread 

Pain au Lait, 

2 Quarts of Flour. 

H Teacupful of Yeast or H Cake of 

Compressed Yeast. 

1 Pint of Fresh Milk. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

2 Ounces of Butter. 

Scald the milk, and then turn it 
into the bread trough or pan. Add 
immediately the butter and the salt. 
When it becomes tepid add the yeast 
and about three-quarters of a pint 
or half a pint of flour, using always 
good Judgrment. adding more or less 
in order to make a thick batter. 
Then beat thoroughly till air bubbles 
accumulate all over the surface of the 
batter. Next cover and set in a warm 
place over night. Very early in the 
morning work in the rest of the flour, 
take it out of the pan and put it 
on a board and knead quickly and 
lightly until the' dough is perfectly 
smooth and does not cling to the 
hands or the board. Then put it back 
in the trough or pan and cover with 
a cloth, and set to rise again in a 
warm place. When it has increased 
to twice its bulk turn again upon the 
board, and then divide the dough into 
two parts. Mold these lightly and 
gently into small loaves, and stand 
away to rise for about half an hour. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



345 



Then set in the oven, which should 
be moderately quick, and bake for 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Buttermilk Bread 

Pain au Baheurre. 

1 Quart of Flour. 

1 Pint of ButtermiiK. 

1 Dessertspoonful of Soda. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
% Pound of Powdered Su£:ar. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Warm the milk, add the sugar, but- 
ter and soda, the latter dissolved in 
a little warm water. Then add the 
flour and set to rise. When well risen 
knead ligrhtly. place in a baking pan, 
let it rise again for half an hour, and 
bake in a moderate oven. This makes 
an excellent, nutritious and very white 
bread, and is much used by the Cre- 
oles in making French Toasts. 

Buttermilk Rolls are made by sim- 
ply pinching off the .above dough into 
pieces about the size of a walnut or 
egg, shaping into little balls, and pro- 
ceeding as above. 

■ 

Rice Bread 

Pain de Riz. 

1 Cup of Cold Boiled Rice. 
2 Cups of White Indian Meal. 2 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 

2 Heaping Teaspoonfuls of Baking 

Powder. 1% Pints of Milk. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Beat the yolks and whites of the 
eggs together until very light, and 
then pour in the milk, mixing gradu- 
ally. Add the well prepared meal, into 
which has been well mixed the salt 
and Baking Powder. Beat well. Then 
add the melted butter and the rice, 
which has been well pressed through 
a sieve. Mix all thoroughly, and beat 
till very light. Then greavse the bot- 
tom of a shallow pan and turn the 
mixture in and bake half an hour in 
a hot oven. Serve hot, buttering the 
slices freely. This is a delicious 
breakfast bread, and, as in any of the 
above recipes, cold rice left over may 
be utilized in its making. 

Sweet Potato Bread 

Pain de Patatea. 

1 Quart of Mashed Sweet Potatoes. 
1\^ Pints of Flour. 
1 Pint of Milk or Warm Water. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

^ Teacup of Fresh Teast, or Half a 
Cake of Compressed Teast. 

This is a delicious Creole Bread. The 

potatoes must be baked, peeled and 



mashed. Put the milk, or water, and 
the yeast and salt into a bowl or pan; 
add the butter, which must be melted. 
Beat thoroughly, and set over night 
in a warm place. In the morning 
add the potatoes, mashed and pressed 
through a sieve, and gradually add the 
flour, which must be sifted three 
times. Beat to a light sponge; then 
cover, and set to rise in a warm place 
till it doubles its size. Then turn 
out on a bread board and mold into 
loaves; put in a slightly greased pan 
and let rise till light. Then bake in a 
moderate oven forty-flve minutes. 



ROIiliS 

Bourrelet8. 

1 Quart of Milk. 

1 Quart of Water. 

% Ounce of Teast. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

^ Pound of Lard. 

1 Tablespoonful of Sugar (if Desired). 

Dissolve the sugar (if desired), the 

yeast and salt, with the milk and the 

water. Then add flour sufficient to 

make a nice dough of medium flrm- 

ness. Add the lard, and work the 

dough until smooth. Then form into 

a round mass and set to rise. When 

the dough has doubled its size work 

anew, mold it into small round balls 

and set in a greased baking pan each 

a little distance apart from the other. 

Set to rise again, and when they have 

doubled their size bake in a brisk 

oven. 

French Rolls 

Bourreleta d la Frangaise. 

IH Pints of Fresh Milk. 

2 Quarts of White Flour. 2 Eggs. 

2 Ounces of Butter. 

Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Teaspoonful of Sugar (Which May be 

Omitted, According to Taste). 

% Cake of Compressed x east. Dissolved 

in Warm Water. 

Boil the milk, take oft the stove, 
and add the butter, sugar and salt. 
Then add the well beaten eggs. Stir 
in about one and a half pounds of 
flour, more or less, to make a stiff 
batter, and beat till air bubbles accu- 
mulate all over the surface. Then 
cover with a close cloth and set to 
rise over night in a warm place. Then 
take up the dough and knead lightly 
with the remaining flour to make a 
nice, soft dough, and shape with your 
hands into neat, small rolls or balls. 
Set them together in the baking pan. 
which has been very lightly sprinkled 



346 



TH£ PICAYUXE CREX>IiE COOK BOOK 



with flour. Then put to rise for an 
hour Ioniser. 8et in the oven, and 
bake about a half hour. These rolls 
are delicious for breakfast, or for 
luncheon or supper. They may be set 
to rise in the early morning, and 
served hot at luncheon. 



Tea Rolls 

Bourrelcts pour le TM 

1 Quart of Flour. 

1 Pint of Milk. 

y^ Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

1 Teaspoonrul of Salt. 

1 Gill of Warm Water. 

Sift the flour and salt together. 
Scald the milk, and when tepid add 
the yeast, dissolved In a little warm 
water, to one-half of the milk. Add 
one-half of the flour, and make a thin 
batter, stirring very smooth. Set it to 
rise in a warm place, and at the end 
of three hours make It into a dough 
with the remainder of the milk and 
flour, and knead well till the dough 
no longer adheres to the board or to 
your hands. Then shape it with your 
hands into small balls, set to rise for 
about an hour, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven for a half hour. 



RUSKS 

£chaud68 Bcc». 

1 Pint of Warm Milk. 

yk Cup of Butter. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 2 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

Flour Sufficient to Make a Batter. 

Dissolve the yeast in the warm milk 

and then add flour sufficient to make 

a thin batter. Set to rise over night. 

In the morning beat the sugrar and 

the butter to a cream, and add the 

eggs, well beaten. Add these to the 

batter, beat well, add the salt, and 

sufficient flour to make a soft dough. 

Then mold the dough into balls with 

your hands, or into small loaves. Set 

to rise until they have reached about 

twice their bulk. Then place in the 

oven and bake for thirty minutes. If 

sweet rusks are not desired, omit the 

sugar. 

TOAST 

Pain R6ti. 

6 Slices of Bread. 
Butter to Taste. 

Slice the bread, neither too thick 
nor too thin. Cut off the rough edges 
of the crust. Hold on a fork before 



burning coals till nicely toasted on 
one side. Then turn on the other, 
and proceed as before. If dry toast 
is desired, the bread is not buttered. 
If buttered toast, butter nicely, set 
in the oven a second and send to the 
table hot. 

Some cooks toast bread by simply 
setting the slices in the oven and let- 
ting them brown on either side. But 
there is no comparison in lightness to 
the toast prepared in the above old- 
fashioned way. 



Cream or Milk Toast 

R6H€9 d la Crdme ou au Lait 

6 Slices of Bread. 

1 Pint of Hot Cream or Mllk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Toast the bread nicely, and butter 
well on both sides. Lay in a dish, 
and pour hot milk over it. Serve hot. 

Or, heat one pint of Cream, add 
one large tablespoonful of butter, and 
pour over the hot toast. Slightly stale 
bread may be utilized in this way. 

Soda crackers may be toasted and 
served in the same way. This was a 
great supper dish in the old Creole 
plantation homes of LK>ui8iana. 



liost Bread or Egg Toast 

Pain Perdu. 

6 Eggs. 
2 Tablespoon fuls or Orange Flower 

Water. 

^ Cup of Sugar. 

Slices ox Stale Bread. 

The Finely-Grated Rind of a Lemon. 

The Creoles utilize left-over stale 
bread in this delightful breakfast rel- 
ish known as "Pain Perdu." Break 
the eggs into a bowl, beat them till 
very light, add the Orange Flower 
Water and then add the sugar, and 
beat thoroughly. Add the grated peel 
of a lemon, mix well, and then cut 
the bread into slices or round pieces, 
taking off the crust, or still again into 
diamond shapes, and soak them well 
for a half hour in the mixture. Have 
ready a frying pan of boiling lard (see 
General Directions for Frying), lay in 
the bread, and fry to a golden brown 
Lift the slices out with a skimmer, 
and drain pn brown paper in the 
mouth of the oven. Place them on a 
hot dish, sprinkle with powdered 
sugar, as you would fritters, add a 
little grated nutmeg, if desired, and 
serve hot. 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



347 



Spanish Toast 

Rdtiet d VEspangnole 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Powdered Susrar. 

1 Kge* 

1 Cup of Milk. 

H Ounce Each of Powdered Nutmes 

and Cinnamon. 

6 Slices of Stale Bread. 

Lard for Frylxifir. 

Beat the egg and sugar well, and 

add the milk. Have ready the slices 

of stale bread, cut in diamond shapes 

or square, and let them soak for about 

a half hour in the mixture. Put 

them in a pan of boilingr lard, and 

fry to a golden brown. Skim out and 

drain on brown paper in the mouth 

of the oven, and place on a hot dish. 

Sprinkle with powdered sugrar and 

grated cinnamon and nutmeg, and 

serve with milk or cream. 



BRIOCHES 

2 Pounds of the Best Flour. 

^ Ounce of Yeast. 

1 Cud of Sugar. 

% Ounce of Salt. 

1 Pound of the Best Butter. 

12 or 8 Eggs. 

To make "Brioches," put a pound 
and a half of the best quality of flour 
In a wooden bread trough. Make a 
hole in the center of the flour, and put 
in a half ounce of yeast, previously 
dissolved in a little warm water. Take 
milk or tepid water to make the 
dough, using milk if you want it to be 
very rich and delicate. Knead and 
mix the flour with one hand, while 
adding the milk or water with the 
other. Make a dough that is neither 
too stiff nor too soft, and when per- 
fectly smooth set the dough to rise 
in a moderately warm place, covering 
with a cloth. Remember that if you 
use milk to make the dough, the milk 
must be scalded, that is, it must be 
heated to the boiling point and then 
allowed to grow tepid. Let the dough 
rise for flve or six hours, and when 
it has increased to twice its bulk, 
add the reserved half pound of flour, 
into which has been well sifted the 
salt. Add six eggs, beaten very light, 
with the sugar and butter, and mix all 
well together, kneading lightly with 
your hands, and adding more eggs if 
the dough is a little stiff. Then knead 
the dough by turning it over on itself 
three times, and set to rise again for 
an hour or three-quarters of an hour. 
Cover with a cloth. At the end of this 
time take it up, work it again lightly 



and then form into "Brioches," that 
is, work the dough gently with your 
hands, and then break it into pieces 
about the size of an egg. Pat these 
gently, forming them into neat rolls, 
a little flattened, and then make one 
roll about twice the size of the others. 
This roll will, form the head of the 
Brioche. Have ready a baking pan 
with a buttered sheet of paper in It, 
and put the central roll in the middle. 
Arrange around the other rolls, hav- 
ing at least six or eight, to form a 
perfect-looking cake. Cover the pan 
with a clean, stiff cloth, and set the 
cake to rise for an hour longer. When 
well risen, set in an oven a few de- 
grees cooler than that used for baking 
Bread. If the rolls are large, let them 
bake an hour and a half; if medium, 
one hour, and if very small, a half 
hour. Some bakers and cooks glaze 
the Brioche lightly with a beaten egg, 
which is spread neatly over the top, 
before placing in the oven. This gives 
the rich, glossy surface so often seen 
on the Brioche. Again, if you cannot 
afTord butter, use lard, or half butter 
and lard, but the Brioche made with 
butter and milk is the most delicate 
and the true Creole Brioche, peculiar 
to New Orleans. After the Brioches 
are baked, set them to cool, if you do 
not wish to eat them hot When 
serving, whether hot or cold, sprinkle 
lightly with powdered white sugar. 



BABA 

2 Pounds of the Best Flour. 

% Ounce of Yeast. 

1 Cup of Sugar. 

H Ounce of Salt. 

1 Pound of the Best Butter. 

12 or 14 Eggs. 

% Pound of Seeded Raisins. 

Vi Pound of Currants. 

H Glass of Sweetened Water. 

A Tinge of Saffron. 

The dough for the "Baba" is exactly 
the same as that for the Brioche. 
Proceed in the same manner, only 
at the moment of adding the reserved 
flour to the leavened dough, add a 
half pound of seeded raisins, and a 
half pound of currants, washed, picked 
and dried. Add also a half glass of 
sweetened, tepid water, in which has 
been flrst put a little saffron. Be 
careful to keep this dough much softer 
than that for the Brioche, adding 
more eggs, if necessary, to insure the 
proper degree of consistency. The 



348 



THE PICAYUICE CREOUS C€K>K BOOS 



dough must rise at least six or seven 
hours. When It has Increased to 
twice Its volume, after the third ris- 
ing, cook as you would the Brioche, 
In an oven a few degrees cooler than 
that used In baking bread. The 
"Baba" Is made Into a round cake, 
just like a Pound Cake or Sponge 
Cake, and Is formed Into this round 
shape with the hands. After baking, 
let cool and sprinkle with powdered 
white sugar. This is the cake that 
the Creole bakers of New Orleans send 
as a "Christmas" or "New Year's Of- 
fering" to their customers. 

The German bakers of New Orleans 
adopted the custom, and make the 
"Baba" by adding to the raisins and 
currants a little Aniseed, Instead of 
the Saffron. 



BUUjFROGS 

Orenouilles. 

% Pound of the Beat Flour. 

Vb Ounce of Yeast. 

% Cup of Sugar. ^ Ounce of Salt. 

1 Pound of the Best Butter. 

8 or 12 Eggs. 

Under this amusing name are sold 
the delicious small rolls which are 
served in Creole homes and restau- 
rants. The rolls are Joined together 
lightly in long rows of about eight 
Inches in length and three In width. 
The dough for "Bullfrogs" is just the 
same as that for the Brioche, only a 
half pound of flour is used. Instead of 
a pound, and a cup of butter. Bake 
in the same manner. 



CHEESE CAKES 

Talmouses, 

% Pound of Flour. 

1 Glass of Water. 

A Pinch of Salt. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

6 Eggs. 

2 Cream Cheeses. 

A Brioche or Plain Paste. 

(See Recipe Plain Paste.) 

Put the butter in a saucepan, and 
add the water and the salt. Let all 
come to a boil, stirring constantly. 
Then take from the fire and add the 
eggs, beaten well, and the cream 
cheese. Mix all well. Then line small 
molds or tins with some nice Plain 
Paste, or Brioche Paste, rolled very 
thin. Place Inside an egg-sized piece 
of the cream cheese mixture. Then 
cover the cakes with a piece of rolled 
dough, and bake in a slow oven. 



FRVrr BRIOCHE. 

Peillaro, 

2 Pounds of Flour. 
1 Pound of Butter, or Half Butter and 

Lard. 

12 Eggs. H Ounce of Yeast. 

1 Tablespoonful of Orange Flower 

TV^ater. 

Milk or Tepid Water to Form 

a Dough. 

Pound of Figs or Stoned Cherries. 

Make the same dough as for the 

Brioche. At the moment of adding 

the leavened flour and the reserved 

flour, add the stoned cherries or 

peeled figs, the latter cut in halves. 

Then proceed as for Brioches, and at 

the last kneading add the orange 

flower water. Bake as you would the 

Brioche. 

BISCUIT 

Des BUcuiU. 

1 Quart of Flour. 

1 Heaping Teaspoonful of Lard. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

2 Teasnoonfuls of Yeast Powder. 
1 Pint of Water or Sweet Milk. 

Sift the flour well, and add the salt 
and yeast powder, rubbing In thor- 
oughly with your hands. Then rub 
in the lard, rubbing the flour between 
your hands till every portion Is per- 
meated by the lard, and there are no 
lumps. Gradually add water or milk, 
using about a pint, more or less, mix- 
ing in with your hands. Then knead 
the dough until smooth and elastic. 
Form into molds, and lay on the bis- 
cuit board, and roll out till about a 
quarter of an inch In thickness. Cut 
into round cakes with the biscuit cut- 
ter. Stick lightly with a fork here 
and there over the surface, and bake 
in a quick oven for about Ave or six 
minutes. By adding four or five eggs 
and, instead of the lard, one table- 
spoonful of butter, to the above, you 
will have egg biscuit. - 



Beaten Biscuit 

Biscuits Battus. 

1 Quart of Flour. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 
1 Heaping Teaspoonful of Lard. 
1 Pint of Milk or Water, or Half and 

Half. 

Sift the flour and add the salt, mix- 
ing thoroughly. Then add the lard, 
and blend by rubbing through the 
hands till not a lump remains in the 
flour. Now add gradually the water 
or milk, or the milk and water com- 
bined, using half and half of each, 



"XHE PICATUNS CRGOIiE COOK BOOK 



S49 



cind knead all together till the dough, 
"which must not be too soft, but rather 
stiff, is formed. Then lay the dough 
on a biscuit board on a block, and 
beat for a half hour with a rolling 
pin. Knead lightly, and beat again 
for a full ten minutes, till upon every 
portion of the surface and sides the 
air bubbles or "blisters" form. Then 
roll out and cut into round biscuits 
with the cutter, or square ones with 
a knife, and stick here and there with 
a fork. Bake in a moderate oven for 
about ten or fifteen minutes, till a 
delicate brown above and below. 

Stewed Biscuits 

Biscuits^ SauUa. 

6 Left-Over Biscuits. 
^ Pound of Butter. IMt Pints of Milk. 

Left-over biscuits may be thus uti- 
lized. Lay in a porcelain-lined sauce- 
pan, biscuits cut in halves, put bits 
of butter over these, then a layes 
of biscuit, and so on till all are used 
up. Pour milk over the whole, let it 
come to a boil, and serve hot. 

Soda and Milk Biscuit 

BUcuit avk Lait et d la Soude, 

1 Quart of Flour. • 

1 Heaping Teaspoonful of Lard. 

2 Cups of Sour Milk. 

^ Teaspoonful of Soda. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Sift the flour and add the salt and 
lard, rubbing them in thoroughly with 
your hands, as above indicated. Then 
dissolve the soda in a little warm 
water and add to the milk, and work 
rapidly and lightly. Then lay on a 
biscuit board or a block of wood, and 
beat till the surface of the dough is 
full of air bubbles, or "blisters," as 
the old Creole cooks call them. Roll 
the dough out to about a quarter of 
an inch In thickness, cut into round 
biscuits with a biscuit cutter, or square 
ones with a knife. Stick here and 
there over the surface with a fork, 
and bake for about six minutes In a 
quick oven. If too much soda Is used, 
it not only Imparts a bitter taste, but 
makes the flour an ugly, yellowish 
green, that is neither tempting nor 
Inviting. 

The Graham Biscuit Is made by 
using three cups of Graham flour, one 
cup of white flour, one teaspoonful of 
Baking Powder, one heaping table- 
spoonful of sugar or molasses, and 
two cups of luke-warm water, mixing 



the batter until it reaches the con- 
sistency of oatmeal porridge, and then 
pouring into buttered tins. Let It rise 
till light, and bake in a moderate 
oven. Milk may be used Instead of 
water, if you have it. 

Sweet Potato Biscuit 

BUcuita de Patates Doucee. 

6 Potatoes. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Butter or Lard. 

1 Pint of Milk. 

H Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Tablespoonful of White Sugar. 

Sufiicient Flour to Make a Batter. 

Boil the potatoes, pare and mash 

them very fine through a sieve. Scald 

the milk and add the salt and sugar. 

Then beat till perfectly smooth. Add 

these to the potatoes and mix well. 

Then add about half a cup of flour. 

well sifted several times, so that it 

will be very light. When the mixture 

grows tepid, add the yeast, which has 

been well dissolved in warm water, 

and beat hard till you have a good 

batter. Then cover the mixture with a 

thick cloth, and put to rise In a warm 

place. After three or four hours, 

when it Is well risen, add flour sufll- 

clent to make a nice, soft dough. 

Knead very lightly and quickly for 

about ten or fifteen minutes. At the 

end of this time take up and knead 

lightly several times, and roll the 

dough out. Cut into little biscuits, 

place them in a slightly-buttered or 

greased pan, about two Inches apart, 

let them, stand for half an hour In a 

warm place and then bake in a quick 

oven for twenty minutes. 

Tea Biscuits 

Biacuita pour Ic Th6. 

1 Quart of Flour. 

H Pint of Milk. 3 E2gg8. 

2 Ounces of Butter or Lard. 

1 Teaspoonful of Sugar. 
% Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

Scald the milk and add the butter. 
Set to cool, and then add the salt and 
the sugar and yeast. Add one-half 
of the flour. Mix well, and then beat 
rapidly for about five or ten minutes. 
Cover up the pan with a cloth, and 
set in a warm place for about two 
hours. Then take up, add the well- 
beaten eggs and the remainder of the 
flour. Make a soft dough, and knead 
lightly but constantly for about twen- 
ty minutes. If the dough Is then elas- 
tic, form Into loaves and set to rise in 
a warm place. When it has increa*sed 



850 



THE PICAYUNE CREX>IiE COOK BOOK 



to twice its bulk, which will be in 
about two hours, pinch off into small 
pieces about half the size of a hen's 
egg, and mold into a small ball. Place 
all in a pan about two inches apart, 
and cover agraln for half an hour. 
Then bake in a moderate oven for 
about a quarter of an hour. They 
must be baked to a nice brown. 

Soda Crackers 

Bi9cuit8 de 8oude. 

1 Quart of Flour. 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Cups of Sweet Milk or Water. 

% Teaspoonful of Sode 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Sift the flour several times and add 
the salt. Mix well. Then rub in the 
butter thoroughly. Add the soda, 
which has been well dissolved in a 
little boilingr water, and the milk, and 
mix all well together. Then knead 
well and put upon the biscuit board 
and beat with a rolllne: pin for up- 
wards of half an hour, frequently 
rolling the dough over, and beating 
hard until the air bubbles cover every 
part, above and below. Then roll out 
into a nice square even sheet of dough, 
about one-eighth of an inch in thick- 
ness, and cut into neat square cakes. 
Stick through and through with a 
fork here and there over the surface 
in even rows, and bake them in a 
moderate oven till they are hard and 
crisp, but not brown. Hang them in 
a muslin bag for about two days to 
thoroughly dry, and they are ready 
to be served. 

Wafers 

Qaufres. 

1 Pint of Flour. 
1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 
Teaspoonful of Salt. 
Pint of Sweet Milk. 

Sift the flour very, very fine, and 
then add the salt, and mix well. Add 
the milk and make into a nice, rather 
stiff dough. Place on a biscuit board 
and beat for fully a half hour, and 
then turn the dough over and beat for 
flfteen minutes more, the lightness de- 
pending upon the beating. Roll them 
out into cakes that are almost trans- 
parent in thinness, but which can also 
be handled without losing their shape. 
Lay them gently in the pan, or better 
still, roll them out on a baking sheet 
which has been sprinkled with flour; 
then they will not require handling. 
Bake quickly in a hot oven. 



I 



SHORT CAK£ 

GAteau dc P6tc au Beurre. 

1 Pound of Flour. 
4 Tablespoonfuls of ButCer or 2 of Lard. 

^ Teaspoonful of Salt. 

A Pinch of Soda, or Vii Teaspoonful of 

Teast Powder. 

Sift the flour and yeast powder to- 
gether, if you desire it instead of soda. 
Otherwise sift the flour, add the salt, 
and mix the lard or butter thoroughly 
together, rubbing between your hands 
till there is not a lump left. Then 
add suflflcient tepid water to make a 
nice, rather stiff dough. Roll out 
into a thin sheet, about half an inch 
thick, and criss-cross with a knife 
lightly in diamond shapes. Set in the 
oven and bake for about flfteen min- 
utes to a light brown. This is brought 
to the table split open and buttered, 
and eaten while hot. 

The short cake for fruits is made 
in exactly the same manner, only a 
quarter of a pound of butter is used* 
and two eggs, well beaten, and instead 
of water, sour milk or buttermilk is 
used to mix, if you use soda, and sweet 
milk if you use yeast powder. This 
dough is divided in two, one for the 
upper, and the other for the lower 
crust, and is sprinkled thickly between 
with such fruits as strawberries, rasp- 
berries, etc. The dough should be 
soft and crisp. 

CORX BR£AD 

Pain de MaU. 
It has been said that the only people 
who know how to make corn bread 
are the Southern people, and that the 
further you go below Mason's and 
Dixon's line the better the corn bread, 
corn cakes, and corn mufllns, that are 
offered you. Throughout Louisiana 
the dainty "Egg Breads," Corn Cakes, 
Muffins, "Crackling Bread," etc, are 
the relishes that planters place be- 
fore the guests who have been in- 
vited to partake of their morning 
hospitality. 

Plain Com Bread 

Pain de Mais Simple. 

1 Quart of the Finest Indian Meat 

1 Teaspoonful of SalL 

A Heaping Tablespoonful of Lard or 

Butter. 
1 Pint of Water. 

Poor just enough boiling water over 
the meal to scald it through and 
through, without making a dough or 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLiE COOK BOOK 



351 



batter. Stir It well, and let It grow 
tepid. It will then be quite dry. Add 
a melted teaspoonful of lard or but- 
ter. Mix this well, and add water, 
and beat till the batter is very smooth. 
Dissolve one teaspoonful of soda in 
a little boiling water, and add to the 
mixture, and grease a baking pan. 
Turn the mixture in and bake in a 
quick oven for about thirty-flve min- 
utes, till a golden brown. Take the 
bread from the pan whole, place it 
on a hot platter, and serve, cutting 
It at the table into slices about two 
inches long and three wide, and serv- 
ing with butter. 

Rgg Com Bread 

Pain de Maia aum Oeufs. 

1 Quart of Cornmeal. 4 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter or Lard. 

1 Pint of Milk (Buttermilk If Possible). 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Scald the meal with boiling water 
sufficient to melt. Beat the yolks of 
the eggs light. Add the corn meal 
and melted butter, and the salt, and 
beat till light, moistening with the 
milk. Then add the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Beat all 
well together. Pour into a buttered 
or greased pan, or into shallow tins, 
and bake quickly. This is the real 
Creole Corn Bread, so highly praised 
by all tourists through Louisiana. 
Success depends upon the proper beat- 
ing of the eggs, as well as on the ris- 
ing of the corn bread Itself. If the 
eggs are well beaten, the corn bread 
will need neither soda nor yeast to 
make it rise properly. Some add a 
tablespoonful of sugar wheh they wish 
to have sweetened corn bread. Corn 
bread should always be served hot and 
generously buttered. 



Nonpareil Com Bread 

Pain de Mats NonparieL 

2 Cups of Indian Meal. 

1 Cup of Flour. 3 Eggs. 

2H Cups of Sweet Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar (If Desired). 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Beat the eggs very, very light, the 
whites and yolks separately. Melt the 
lard or butter, and sift the Baking 
Powder Into the sifted meal and flour. 
Stir this 'Into the yolks of the eggs 
and the milk. Blend thoroughly. Add 
the whites, beaten to a stiff froth. Beat 



well together, and bake quickly and 
steadily in a quick oven for about a 
half hour. Serve hot, with butter. 



Risen Com Bread 

Pain de Mais au Levain. 

1 Quart of Cornmeal. 

1 Pint of Milk or Water. 3 Eggs. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Yeast. 

Beat the eggs well, and use boiling 
water or milk to blend the corn meal, 
eggs and salt together. Then add the 
yeast, which has been well dissolved 
In a little hot water. Set the bread 
to rise for three or four hours, and 
then bake in tins or in a grea.sed pan, 
like a pone of bread, or make it into 
loaves. 

Again, the risen corn bread can be 
made much more quickly by simply 
adding two tablespoonfuls of baking 
powder to the batter, or a half tea- 
spoonful of soda, dissolved In a cup 
of milk. Mix thoroughly, and bake 
in buttered tins or a pan. Always 
scald the meal with boiling water 
first. 

Steamed Com Bread 

Pain de MaU d la Vapeur. 

2 Cups of Cornmeal. 

1 Cup of Flour. 

1 Cup of Louisiana Molasses. 

2 Cups of Sweet Milk. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

Scald the meal. Beat the eggs very 
light, and beat the milk Into them till 
very light. Add the molasses and 
baking powder, and blend well. Then 
add the flour, mixing and beating till 
thoroughly blended. A half cup of 
sugar may be used instead of the mo- 
lasses. Tie In a cloth, as you would 
roll a pudding, and place in a steamer, 
on top of a pot of boiling water, and 
cover first with a close cloth, and then 
with the steamer cover, and steam for 
three hours. Then turn Into a hot 
dish, and eat as a plain dessert, with a 
Hard or Cream Sauce. (See Pudding 
Sauces. ) 

Com Meal Pone 

Pain de Mais Creole, 

1 Quart of the Finest Indian Meal. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 
A Heaping Teaspoonful of Lard or 

Butter. 
1 Pint of Sour Milk or Buttermilk. 

3 Eggs. 

Pour just enough boiling water over 
the meal .to scald It .through and 



352 



THE PICATUXE CREX>IiE: COOK BOOK 



through, without making a dough or 
batter. Stir it well, and let It grow 
tepid. It will be then quite dry. Beat 
three eggs very light, add them to the 
meal, and add a melted tablespoonful 
of lard or butter. Mix this well, and 
add the milk or buttermilk, and beat 
till the batter is very smooth. Dis- 
solve one teaspoonful of soda in a lit- 
tle boiling water, and add to the mix- 
ture, and grease a baking pan. Turn 
the mixture in and bake in a quick 
oven for about thirty-flve minutes, 
till a golden brown. Take the pone 
from the pan whole, place it on a 
hot platter, and serve, cutting it at 
the table into slices about three inches 
long and two wide, and serving with 
butter. 

A Plain Pone may be made by using 
hot water and lard, instead of milk 
and butter, making a thick dough, 
formed into loaves and baked. But 
it bears no comparison to the real 
Creole Pone, as made above. Never- 
theless, it is a very good and nutri- 
tious white corn bread. In the rural 
districts of Louisiana the lard is often 
omitted, and the pone made simply of 
the hot water and corn meal. 



Corn Dodgers 

Petit 8 Pain a de Maia. 

1 Quart of Indian Meal. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Scald the meal with boiling water. 
Add the melted lard and the salt. Use 
sufficient boiling water to make a very 
stift batter or soft dough. Then take 
up a handful of the mixture, and mold 
it with your hands into an oval 
mound, tossing the cake of dough 
lightly between your hands in a dex- 
terous manner, leaving the impression 
of your fingers across it. Bake the 
pones thus formed in a quick oven. 
They may be served at dinner, and 
are delicious when properly made. 



Ash Cake 

Petita Odteaiw Cuita dana la Cendre. 

1 Quart of Indian Meal. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

This is a genuine Southern darky 
cake. The old Creole negroes of Lou- 
isiana excelled in making and baking 
it, so that no ashes clung to the clean 
white cake. An ash cake, as the name 



suggests, is always baked in the ashes 
on the open hearth, and wood ashes 
must be used. The darkies had a 
roaring fire and a sufficient quantity 
of hot ashes. They swept a clean 
place on the hearth and drew out a 
pile of hot ashes and placed the pone 
of bread, shaped like the Com Dodg- 
ers, on top of the ashea This was 
covered with hot ashes, and baked 
to a nice brown. Then the cake was 
drawn out of the ashes, wiped clean 
with a cloth till every particle of ashes 
had disappeared, and served hot with 
butter or molasses. 

Again, the darkies wrapped the 
cake in fig leaves, to bake it more 
neatly, but the real Ash Cake was 
baked as above. 



Fried Com Cakes 

QAteawp de Maia Frita. 

1 Quart of Indian Meal. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Make the dough as above, adding. 

if you wish, a well beaten e^^, and 

milk instead of water. Beat till very 

light, and drop the stiff batter in large 

spoonfuls on a frying pan that has 

.been very well greased with fat bacon 

skin. They must be fried to a golden 

brown. After each cake is taken from 

the skillet, the latter must be wiped 

off and regreased with the fat bacon 

before the next cake is put upon it. 

Serve hot at breakfast or dinner. 



HOECAKE 

Odteau d la Houe. 

1 Pint of Flour. 

yk Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Boiling Water Sufficient to Make a 

Batter. 

These cakes may be baked on a 
griddle, just as you would a griddle 
cake, and served with butter. But the 
old Southern cooks always baked 
them on a hoe on hot coals in front 
of a wood fire, out in the open air. 
Just before their cabin doors, or In 
their cabins before the roaring hearth 
fire. Hence the name Hoecake. The 
Hoecake was made of flour, with suf- 
ficient water to moisten it well. A 
teaspoonful of butter or lard was 
added. 

The term Hoecake, so extensively 
used by the field hands, was* taken up 
by masters and mistresses, and ap- 
plied to a biscuit bread made of one 



miE PICAYUNE CREOUS COOK BOOK 



868 



X>iiit of flour, one-half pint of milk, one 
teaspoonf ul of yeast powder, and two 
spoonfuls of butter or one of lard, 
kneaded well together, rolled out with 
a. rolling pin, and cut criss-cross, like 
diamonds, with a knife, and baked 
in the oven. 

This Hoecake is served at dinner 
with a glass of milk or cream, as an 
accompaniment to Compotes of Fruits. 



jrOHXNY CAKE 

Odteau de Jean. 

1% Pints of Indian Meal. 3 Eggs. 
A Pint of Sweet Milk or Buttermilk or 

Hot Water. 
2 Tablespoonfuls of Melted Butter, or 1 

of Lard. 

^ Teaspoonful of Soda (May be 

Omitted). 

Beat the eggs till very light, and add 
the corn meal, then beat once more. 
Add the melted butter and the milk 
or water. If buttermilk is used, you 
may use the soda, dissolving it in two 
tablespoonfuls of boiling water. Do 
not use the soda with the sweet milk. 
Make a dough or batter thick enough 
to be spread into round cakes a half 
inch in thickness and about Ave inches 
in diameter. Place them in buttered 
tins, and bake in a moderate oven for 
about a half hour, frequently brush- 
ing across while baking with melted 
butter. Do this a^out four or five 
times. 

In the olden days, Johnny Cake was 
baked on a clean, sweet board, before 
a hot coal Are. The board had to be 
made of oak wood. The cake was 
formed and placed on the board, and 
the board was inclined at an angle 
before the hot coal Are, with a piece 
of wood or a flatiron to hold it. since 
the cake was placed at such an angle 
that it could harden without slipping. 
When quite hard it was stood up- 
right and baked to a nice, crisp brown 
on both sides, being turned as needed, 
and often basted with butter. The 
Johnny Cake was served for lunch or 
for tea, being sent to the table hot, 
split and buttered, or served with 
fresh, sweet butter and buttermilk. 



CRACKIilNG BREAD 

Chraton: 
Cracklings are the bits of fat meat 
left after all the lard has been ren- 
dered from the fat pork. They are 
eaten extensively throughout rural 



Louisiana. The fat pork is cut into 
small bits, about the size of a man's 
hand, and then fried till every bit of 
grease has been extracted. This 
grease is then clarified and used as 
lard. The cracklings are saved, and 
eaten from time to time within the 
next two weeks, simply being warmed 
over again. Again, they may be made 
at any time by frying small bits of 
fat pork. These cracklings, to use the 
country parlance, "Go very well w^ith 
Corn Bread," and' are not only eaten 
with it '"au naturel," but also made 
into that typical rural bread of the 
country parishes, "Crackling Bread," 
or "Gratons." 

To make this, take one pint of meal, 
a half teaspoonful of salt, and cold 
water enough to make a thick batter. 
Mix the cracklings, already fried, of 
course, in the batter, and pour a big 
tablespoonful at a time on a griddle. 
Fry to a golden brown. Crackling 
bread is very crisp, and if properly 
made is a very palatable bread, re- 
quiring no butter or other accompani- 
ment to make it toothsome. 

MUFFINS 

GalettcM. 
No breakfast cake admits of greater 
variety than the Muffin. We have 
Plain Muffins, E^g Muffins, Cornmeal 
Muffins, Rice, Hominy and Cream 
Muffins, besides several fancy Muf- 
fins, and that delicious breakfast ac- 
companiment, "Muffin Bread." 



Muffin Bread 

Pain LevS d la Pdte de Oalette. 

3 Cups of Flour. 

1 Pint of Milk. 

% Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

4 Eggs, hi Pound of Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Scald the milk and add the butter. 
When it grows lukewarm, add the 
yeast, dissolved in about three table- 
spoonfuls of warm water. Add the 
salt and flour, and beat well for about 
ten minutes. Then set in a warm 
place over night. In the morning beat 
the yolks of the eggs well, and then 
the whites to a stiff froth; add the 
yolks and beat well, and then add the 
whites, and mix all thoroughly. Beat 
till very light, let it stand for about 
a quarter of an hour, and then bake 
in a buttered pan for about twenty 
minutes in a quick oven. 



354 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



Bread MulBiis 

Oalettes de Pain. 

Left-over bread may be utilized in 

this way: 

2 Pints of Stale Bread Crumbs. 

1 Pint of Milk. 
^ Cup of Sifted Flour. 2 Kggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Bakingr Powder. 

Soak the stale bread crumbs in the 
milk for a half hour. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs till very light, and the 
whites to a stiff froth. Add a tea- 
spoonful of salt to the bread, and then 
pour in the melted butter, and mix 
thoroughly. Add the flour, into which 
has been well sifted the making pow- 
der, and beat well. l..astly, add the 
whites of the eggs, and put the muf- 
flns into the muffin rings or gem pans, 
and bake for about a half hour in a 
quick oven. 

Com Meal Muffins 

Oalettes de Farine de MaU. 

2 Cups of Cornmeal. 

% Cup of Sifted Flour. 2 Eggs. 

l\i Cups of Buttermilk or Sweet Milk. 

2 Spoonfuls of Butter. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

% TeaspoonfUl of Salt. 

Scald the meal. Scald the milk, and 
add the butter. When lukewarm add 
to the corn meal and beat well. Add 
the well beaten yolks of the eggs, and 
beat again. Add the flour, with which 
the baking powder has been fully 
blended. Mix well and add the whites 
of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Beat steadily for about ten minutes, 
and then pour into greased muffln 
rings or gem pans, and bake for 
twenty minutes in a quick oven. If 
buttermilk Is used, add a teaspoonful 
of soda, dissolved In the milk. 

In making Muffins, If milk If not 
available, use lukewarm water, or 
half milk and half water. If possible. 

Cream Muffins 

. Oalettea d la Crime, 

1 Pint of Cream. 

1 Pint of Flour. 3 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1% Teaspoonfuls of Yeast Powder. 

Beat the whites and yolks of the 
eggs separately. Then add the cream 
and salt, and finally the flour, with 
which has been well blended the bak- 
ing powder. Beat well and fill the 
muffin ring or gem pans one-half full. 
Place In a quick oven and bake for 
twenty minutes. 



'Egg Muffins 

Oalettes aux Oeufs. 

3 Cups of Flour. 
1 Pint of Milk. 
% Cake of Compressed Teast, or 2 Tea- 
spoonfuls of Baking Powder. 
1 Large Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Prepare the Muffin batter as above, 
and set to rise over night. In the 
morning beat the eggs separately as 
above. Blend and beat till light 
Then turn the muffin batter into 
greased muffin rings, and bake about 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. The 
Muffins must be eaten at once. 

Graham Muffins are made in exactly 
the same manner, only the Graham 
flour is used instead. Sometimes the 
Graham flour is mixed with the plain 
flour in the proportion of two cups of 
the former to one of the latter. In 
Plain Mufllns the eggs are omitted. 



Hominy Muffins 

Oalettea de fitwcamit^. 

2 Cups of Fine Hominy. 3 Eggs. 

Vi Cup of Melted Butter. 

3 Cups of Fresh Milk or Sour Milk. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of White Sugar. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Salt. 

1 Teaspoonful of Soda, If Sour Milk is 

Used. 
% Cup of Flour. 

Mash the hominy through a sieve, 
and then stir in the milk, salt, yeast 
powder and sugar. Add the yolks of 
the eggs, beaten very light, and then 
the flour, well sifted. I^^stly. add the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
^f roth, ' and bake in a quick oven for 
twenty minutes. 

If buttermilk is used, add a half 
teaspoonful of soda, instead of the 
yeast powder. These mufflns may also 
be made out of left-over corn meal. 



Queen Muffins 

Oalettea d la Reine, 

' 1 Cup of Sugar. 

3 Cups of Flour. 3 Eggs. 

1 Pint of Sweet Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder or H 

Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

If yeast is used, set the batter to 
rise over night, as in Egg Muffins, and 
then proceed In exactly the same man- 
ner, adding the eggs In the morning. 
Beat the eggs separately till very 
light, add to the batter, and pour 
into muffin ringrs or gem pans and let 
the mixture rise a half hour longer. 



TILE PICAYUNE CKEOIJE COOK BOOK 



356 



TThen bake for twenty minutes in a 
Quick oven. If baking: powder is 
used, beat the yolks of the eggrs to a 
cream, add the scalded milk and but- 
ter, and add the flour. Beat till very 
lig^ht, and add the baking powder, and 
Anally the whites of the eggs, beaten 
to a stifC froth. Turn into gem pans 
or muffin rings, and bake for twenty 
minutes in a hot oven. 



Quick Muffins 

Oalcttes d la Vitesse. 

3 Cups of Flour. 
1 Pint of Milk. 
\i Cake of Compressed Yeast, or 2 Tea- 
spoonfuls of Baking Powder. 
1 Large Tablespoonful of Butter. 
1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Scald the milk, and add the butter. 
When it grows lukewarm, add the 
yeast, the flour and salt, and beat all 
well for about ten minutes. Then set 
the bowl in a warm place, cover with 
a cloth, and let the mixture rise for 
about two hours. When very light, 
beat well again, and add two eggs well 
beaten. Turn into muffin rings or gem 
pans, and let all rise a half hour 
longer. At the end of that time place 
them in the oven and bake for about 
twenty minutes. If baking powder 
is used, beat into the batter, and pro- 
ceed to bake immediately. The Muf- 
flns may be baked in muffin rings, on 
a griddle, or as above indicated. 



Rice Muffins 

Gaieties de Ris. 

2 Cups of Boiled Rice. 

1 Cup of Flour, 3 Eggs. 

1% Pints of Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard or Butter. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar (May be 

omitted.) 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Mash the rice through a close sieve 
and beat the yolks very light, and add. 
Add the milk and butter, and then 
sift in the flour and half a teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder. Add the sugar 
and the whites of the eggs, beaten to 
a stiff froth. Add the salt, and bake 
in muffin rings in a quick oven, for 
about fifteen or twenty minutes. 



GEMS 

Petits Bijoux. 
Prepare the same batter as for 
Quick Muffins. Pour into gem pans, 
and bake for about twenty-flve min- 
utes. Graham Gems are made by us- 



ing two cups of Graham meal to one 
cup of boiled rice or corn meal, or 
two cups of Graham flour to one of 
wheat flour, with the other ingredients 
in the same proportion as for Quick 
Muffins. 

Com Gems 

Petits Bijoux A la Farinc dc Mats. 

2 Cups of Cornmeal. 

1 Cup of Flour 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

4 Eggs. 1 Pint of Sweet Milk. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

Boil one-half of the milk and pour 
it over the corn meal. Add the but- 
ter instantly, and stir well. When 
thoroughly mixed add the cold milk 
and the well beaten yolks of the eggs. 
Add the salt and then the flour, into 
which has been well sifted the baking 
powder. Mix thoroughly, and then 
add the whites of the eggs, beaten to 
a stiff froth. Pour into greased or 
buttered gem pans, and bake about 
a half hour in a hot oven. Always 
remember to All the pans only half 
full, leaving room for the batter to 
rise. 

CRUMPETS 

£miettes. 

1 Pint of Milk. 

3 Cups of Flour. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

H Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

1 Tablespoonful of Salt. 

Scald the milk and set to cool. Add 
the salt, and gradually beat in the 
flour. Beat till very smooth, and add 
the yeast. Beat continuously for ten 
minutes and then set in a warm place 
to rise. After several hours beat well 
again, and add the melted butter. 
Mix thoroughly and then turn into 
greased muffin rings and bake till a 
beautiful brown, turning flrst on one 
side and then on the other. Send to 
the table very hot. Break open with 
your flngers and butter nicely. 

SALLY Lt NX 

Pain d la Vielle Tantc Zoe. 
Sally Lunn is the same as the old 
breakfast dish known to the Creoles 
for generations as "Pain k la Vielle 
Tante Zog." Take 

1 Pint of Milk. 

IH Pints of Flour. 

\i Cupful of Butter. 

4 Eggs. 1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

% Cup of Sugar. 
*y4 Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

Warm the butter in a pint of milk 

till the milk reaches the boiling point. 



356 



THE PICAYUXK CR£X>IiE COOK BOOK 



Do not let it boil. Simply scald. Then 
add the salt and a tablespoonful of 
sugar. Let it cool. When tepid add 
the flour, well sifted, and beat thor- 
oughly into the mixture. Lastly add 
the yeast, dissolved in a little hot milk 
or water. Beat it continuously for at 
least five minutes. Then, when the 
batter begins to break into blisters, 
cover It and set to rise for the night. 
In the morning add the yolks of the 
eggrs, beaten till very light, and the 
whites, beaten to a stiff froth. Mix 
carefully, and dissolve a half tea- 
spoonful of soda in the mixture, if it 
seems anyway sour. Turn the whole 
into a shallow buttered dish, and set 
to rise for flfteen minutes longer. Bake 
about twenty or twenty-flve minutes 
in a moderately quick oven, till it is a 
light brown. 

This cake, like all mufHn batter, 
should not be cut with a knife, but 
torn apart with your hands. If cut, 
all muffln batter at once becomes 
heavy. The cake may be also made 
much more quickly by mixing in the 
morning, using the above ingredients, 
only adding three teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder, instead of the yeast. Beat 
quickly and thoroughly, and turn into 
a buttered tin, and set to bake at 
once. Send to the table hot. 

WAFFLES 

Oaujre: 
Waffles may be made of flour, rice, 
hominy or cornmeal. In all recipes 
for Waffles, if you have not the milk, 
substitute lukewarm water, and if you 
have no butter, use instead a half 
spoon of lard, but certainly the taste 
of the Waffles is much improved by 
the butter and milk, especially the 
butter. Half milk and half water, 
boiled and grown tepid, may also be 
used in the proportions indicated in 
the recipes. 

Plain Waffles 

Gaufres de Froment. 

3 Cups of Flour. 

2 Eggs. 2 Cups of Milk. 

1^ Teaspoonfuls of Paklng Powder. 

1 Large Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Sift the flour and salt and baking 
powder together. Beat the yolks of 
the eggs till very light. Add the melted 
butter to the milk, which should be 
scalded and grown lukewarm, and 
then mix in the whites of the eggs. 



Now add the flour gradually, making 
a nice, light batter. If it appears at 
all stiff, add a little more milk. Have 
your waffle irons ready, thoroughly 
heated. Have at hand a small brush 
or a stick with a piece of clean, 
fringed cloth wrapped around the end. 
Dip this in a little melted lard, and 
brus'i over the ii. rior of the irons, 
till every part is greased. Pour the 
batter into a pitcher, so that you may 
the mor4 easily All the irons. Fill 
until the elevations are lightly cov> 
ered, then close the irons quickly and 
turn them over. Bake the Waffle 
about two minutes, or till a delicate 
brown. Carefully remove from the 
irons, place in a hot plate or waffle 
dish in the front of the oven, and pro- 
ceed with the baking. Send to tfie 
table hot. 

Gonuneal Waffles 

Oaufres de Farine de UaU, 

2 Cups of Cornmeal. 

1 Cup of Flour. 3 Eggs. 

1 Pint of Milk. 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 

% Teaspoonful of Soda. Dissolved in 

Hot Water. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Scald the milk and then add the 
well beaten yolks of the eggs. Add 
the milk and the soda, dissolved in a 
little hot water, and then add the 
melted butter and the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Now 
add the flour, gradually making a 
nice batter, not too thick, nor yet 
too thin. Beat till all is very smooth 
and proceed to bake as above. 

Rice may be substituted for the 
flour, if you desire rice and cornmeal 
muffins; add about two tablespoon fuls 
of flour to bind. 

Waffles of left-over grits may be 
prepared by adding one cup of grits; 
to two of flour, and proceeding a.s 
above. 

Potato Waffles 

Oaufrea de Pomme$ de Terre. 

1 Pint of Irish Potatoes. 

4 Eggs. 

1 Pint of Flour. 

1^ Pints of Milk. 

H Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

Mash the boiled, left-over potatoes 
through a sieve, and then add the 
milk and the sifted flour. . Add the 
yeast, which has been well dissolved 
in a little warm water and set the 
whole to rise for two hours. At the 
end of that time add the eggs, beaten 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



367 



separately, and mix well. Set to rise 
again for a half hour, till light, and 
then proceed to bake as in Plain 
"Waffles. 

Sweet Potato Waffles 

Oaufres de Patatea Douces. 

2 Cups of Mashed Sweet Potatoes, 
1 Cup of Melted Butter. 

% Cup of Sugar. 

1 Pint of Milk. 2 Eggs. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Flour. 

Mash the potatoes through a sieve, 
and add the eggs, beaten separately. 
Mix well, and add the sugar, and beat 
till very light. Then add the butter 
and beat again, and add the milk, 
mixing thoroughly. Now add the 
flour, using sufficient to make a thin 
batter that will bind the potatoes. 
Grease the waffle irons well, and pro- 
ceed to bake as above indicated. 
Properly made, these waffles are de- 
licious. Left-over potatoes may be 
thus utilized. The eggs may be 
omitted. 

Rice Waffles 

Qaujre$ de Riz. 

1 Cup of Boiled Rice. 

1% Pints of Milk. 2 Eggs.^^ 

1 Cup of Flour or 2 Cups of Rice Flour. 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

Mash the rice through a sieve. Beat 
the yolks light, and add, and then 
add the salt, the baking powder and 
the milk. Beat well, and add the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Now add the rice flour to make 
a thin batter, and proceed to bake 
%.s above. Be careful to grease the 
irons very well, so that the rice may 
not adhere. If white flour, rather 
than the rice flour. Is used, mix in 
proportion two cups of boiled rice, in- 
stead of one. 



Risen- Waffles 

Oaufres au Levain. 

1 Quart of Flour. 

1% Quarts of Milk. 

\4 Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

3 Eggs. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Melted Butter. 

1 'Tablespoonful of Salt. 

Scald the milk, add the butter, and 
let it grow tepid. Sift the flour and 
salt together, and add the milk and 
butter, and flnally the yeast. Beat all 
continuously for flve or ten minutes, 
and then cover well and set in a 
warm place for about two hours. Beat 



the whites and the yolks of the eggs 
separately, and add first the yolks to 
the batter, after it has risen well, and 
then add the whites. Beat in thor- 
oughly, and set to rise again for about 
a quarter of an hour. Then beat 
lightly and pour into a pitcher. Pre- 
pare the waffle irons as indicated 
above, and proceed to bake in the 
same manner. 

These Risen Waffles may also be 
made by mixing the flour, milk and 
salt and yeast together, and setting 
to rise over night. In the morning 
add the melted butter and the eggs, 
beaten separately, set to rise flfteen 
minutes longer, and proceed as above. 

BATTER CAKES 

Qaleitea de Pdte. 

2 Cups of Flour, Finely Sifted. 

2 Cupfuls of Sweet Milk. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

3 Eggs. 

Beat the whites and the yolks of 
the eggs separately, the former to a 
stifC froth. Add the flour to the yolks, 
and beat till very light. Add the bak- 
ing powder and beat again. Then 
add the sweet milk and beat well. 
Xow add the whites of the eggs and 
mix all to a very smooth, light batter, 
just so thick as to run in a slow 
.stream from the mouth of the spoon. 
Have ready the hot griddle, which 
has been greased with lard lightly, 
or, better still, with a piece of fat 
bacon. Drop the cakes on the griddle 
from a large spoon, and bake about 
two minutes to a nice brown, turning 
flrst on one side and then quickly on 
the other. Pile the cakes on a plate in 
the mouth of the oven, buttering each 
generously as soon as baked, and send 
to the table almost as fast as ypu 
bake. These are the most delicate 
and delightful of all Griddle Cakes. 

They may also be made with sour 
milk, instead of sweet, in which case 
use a half teaspoonful of soda, in- 
stead of the baking powder. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

Qalettcs de Sarraain. 

3 Cups of Buckwheat Flour (Perfectly 

Pure). 

1 % Pints of Sweet Milk or Water. 

vie Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

y^ Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Put in a small earthen crock, or 

pitcher, the warm milk or water, or 

half milk and half water, and then 



358 



THK PICAYUNE CRKOliE COOK BOOK 



add the salt and the buckwheat 
flour. Beat till perfectly smooth, 
and then, when you have a etlff 
batter, add the yeast, dissolved In 
a little water. Beat this till smooth, 
and then cover well and set to rise 
over nl^ht. In the morning add a 
half teaspoonful of soda or saleratus, 
to remove any sourness that may have 
accrued during the night (this ad- 
dition will also Increase the lightness 
of the cakes). Bake on a griddle, like 
Batter Takes. 

Buckwheat Pakes are also often 
made by taking two cups of buck- 
wheat flour, one cup of wheat flour, 
one teaspoonful of salt, three tea-' 
spoonfuls of baking powder, and mix- 
ing all together till very light, and 
baking Immediately on griddles. 
Many, Indeed, prefer them combined 
with the flour. This mixture may also 
be made as In the above recipe, by 
using compressed yeast, and setting 
to rise over night. A tablespoonful 
of butter may also be added If de- 
sired. Serve with syrup. 



FliANNEIi CAKES 

Galetica de PAie au Levain. 

1 Pint of Milk. 2 Bggs. 

% Cake of Compressed Yeast. 

3 Cups of Flour. 

Vi Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Heat the milk, and when It grows 
tepid add the yeast, dissolved In a lit- 
tle hot milk or water, and flour suf- 
ficient to make a stlfC batter. Set to 
rise over night, or for at least three 
hours In the morning. After this, add 
the yolks of the eggs, beaten very 
light, and the melted butter, and mix 
well. Then add the whites beaten to 
a stiff froth. Beat well, and then 
bake on a griddle, as In the above 
recipe for Batter Cakes. 

Be sure to make the batter stiff 
enough at the start to allow for the 
mixing In of the eggs and butter In 
the morning. When once the cakes 
have risen, no flour must be added, 
unless the cakes are set to rise for 
an hour again. 

Sweet Flannel Cakes are made by 
adding a half cup of sugar. These 
are nice for tea. 

Again, Flannel Pakes may be made 
without yeast, by using one pint of 
buttermilk and one teaspoonful of 
soda. The batter is then made in the 
morning without setting to rise over 



night, and Is baked on the griddle Im- 
mediately after mixing. Omit the 
butter In these buttermilk cakes. They 
will be very light and spongy with- 
out the butter. 



GRIDDIiE CAKES 

Qditeaux d 7a Plaque. 

3 Cups of Flour. 

3 Cups of Sour Milk or Warm Water. 

1 Teaspoonful of Soda. 

3 Eggs, Beaten Very Light 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Mix the flour and meal and pour 
on the milk or warm water. Make a 
batter somewhat stlflTer than for 
Buckwheat Cakes, and add the eggs, 
well beaten, the whites and yolks sep- 
arately, and Anally add the soda, dis- 
solved In a little warm water. Bake 
on a griddle, making the cakes large 
and generous. Serve with syrup. 



Bread GHddle Cakes 

OAteaux de Pain d la Plaque. 

1 Quart of Boiling Milk. 

2 Cups of Fine Bread Crumbs. 

3 Bggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 

^ Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Stale bread may be used for this re- 
cipe. Soak the bread in the boiling 
milk, and as it cools beat It to a very 
smooth paste. Then add the yolks of 
the eggs, beaten very light, and the 
soda, dissolved in a little warm water. 
Finally add the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth, and a half cup- 
ful of sifted flour to bind well. Bake 
on a hot griddle, and butter and serve 
with Molasses or Syrup. 



Conuncal Griddle Cakes. 

OAteaux dr Farinr de MaU A la Plaque. 

% Teaspoonful of Soda. 
2 Cups of Cornmeal. 

1 Cup of Flour. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

3 Eggs. 

3 Cups of Sour Milk or Warm Water. 

1 Teaspoonful of Soda. 

Scald the meal and mix with the 
milk. Add the flour. Into which the 
salt has been well mixed. Beat the 
eggs very light and add, and when all 
has been beaten very light add a teas- 
poonful of soda, dissolved in a little 
warm water. Bake on a griddle to a 
nice brown. If sweet milk is used, be 
careful to add, instead of the soda, 
two teaspoon fuls of baking powder. 



THE PlCAYrNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



359 



Graham flour, which is now used so 
much, may be made into grriddle 
cakes, using* two cups of the flour to 
one of wheat flour, and adding also 
one large tablespoonful of lard or but- 
ter. Cook as other Griddle Cakes on 
a hot grriddle. 



milk, and mix well. Then add suffi- 
cient flour to make a thin batter, and 
finally the whites of the eggs, beaten 
to a stiff froth. Bake on a hot grid- 
dle, butter generously, and serve very 
hot. This is a great Creole cake, and 
very delicious. 



Honiiny Griddle Cakes. 

OAteaux dc SaccamiU A la Plaque 

2 Cups of Hominy. 

1 Cup of Flour. 

1 Teaspoon ful of Salt. 

3 Eggs. 

3 Cups of Sour Milk or Warm Water. 

1 Teaspoonful of Soda. 

Boll and mash the hominy, or uti- 
lize left-over hominy. Add the flour, 
with which the salt has been well 
mixed. Beat the eggs very light, and 
add, and when all has been beaten 
very light add a teaspoonful of soda, 
dissolved in a little warm water. Bake 
on a griddle to a nice brown. If sweet 
milk is used, be careful to use, in- 
stead of the soda, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Serve with Molasses 
or Syrup. 



I'Yench Griddle Cakes. 

Odteawe de Plaque A la Francaise 

1% Pints of Sifted Flour. 

6 Eggs. 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter. 

1 Ounce of Sugar. 

1 Cup of Milk. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the 
sugar very light; then add the flour 
and melted butter, and then add the 
warm milk. Beat all till very light. 
Add a half teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der, and then add the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Beat all 
till very smooth. Drop a tablespoon- 
ful at a time upon the hot griddle; 
turn quickly and bake on the other 
.side, allowing about two minutes in 
all; place on a hot platter, butter well 
and spread with Jelly, then roll up, 
dust with powdered sugar and serve 
very hot. 



Green Com Griddle Cakes 

Gdteaux de Mate Tendre d la Plaque. 

1 Quart Of Finely-Grated Green Corn. 

1 Pint of Milk. 4 Eggs. 

^ Teaspoonful of Salt. 

1 Cup of Flour. 

1 Tablespoonful of Melted Butter. 

Beat the eggs separately, and then 
add the yolks, well beaten, to the corn. 
Add the salt, melted butter and the 



Rite Griddle Cakes. 

Qdteaux de Riz d la Plaque. 

2 Cups of Boiled Rice. 
1 Cup of Flour. 2 Eggs. 
1 Pint of Milk or Water. 

% Teaspoonful of Salt. 
IVi Teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 

1 Teaspoonful of Su^ar. 

Mash the rice through a sieve. Sift 
the flour, baking powder and salt to- 
gether, and add the sugar to the milk. 
Add this to the flour and mix In the 
rice till free from any lumps. Then 
add the eggs, the whites and yolks 
beaten separately, and mix into a very 
.smooth batter. Have the griddle well 
heated. Bake the cakes to a nice 
brown, and serve with Syrup. 



PUFFS. 

Soufflia, 

1 Pint of Sweet Milk. 

% Pound of Flour. 

2 Ounces of Butter. 

4 Egrss. 

Beat the whites and the yolks sep- 
arately till very, very light. Warm 
the milk and add the melted butter. 
When cold, mix with the yolks of the 
eggs, and add the flour and salt, beat- 
ing till very light. Now add the whites 
of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Stir lightly, turn into buttered tins, 
filling each about half full, and bake 
to a light brown. 



CRACKNELS. 

Craquvlins. 

2 Cups of Rich Milk. 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Butter. 

1 Gill of Yeast. 

1 Teaspoonful of Salt. 

Scald the milk and add the butter, 
and let It grow tepid. Then add the 
yeast and dissolve well. Add the salt, 
and now add the flour sufficient to 
make a light dough. Set to rise, and 
when twice its bulk work lightly, and 
roll out very thin, and cut Into pieces 
about two and a half inches square. 
Stick well with a fork through and 
through, and bake in a slow oven, as 
you would soda crackers. 



360 



THE PICAYUNE CREX>IiE COOK BOOK 



HOME-MADE TEAST. 

Levain de Ufnage» 

6 Large Potatoes. 

A Handful of Hops. 

3 Pints of Water. 

V^ Cup of Susrar. 

^ Cup of Yeast. 

Flour Sumcient to Make a Batter. 

Cornmeal to Blend. 

Wash six large potatoes, and pare 
them, then boil them in about three 
pints of water. Tie a handful of hops 
in a muslin bag, and boil them with 
the potatoes. When these are thor- 
oughly cooked, drain off the water, 
mix it with sufficient flour to make 
a good batter, and set the mixture 
on the stove for a few minutes, till 
the flour is well scalded. Do not 
let it boil or simmer under any con- 
sideration. Take it from the Are, and 
let it cool. Then mash the potatoes 
and add them to the flour, and add a 



half cup of sugar and a half cup of 
yeast. Let it stand in a warm place 
till it has thoroughly risen. Then add 
cornmeal that has been sifted and 
dried, and knead well, until you have 
a dough thick enough to roll out. and 
that will crumble when dry. Cut this 
dough into cakes, spread them on a 
board and put them in the shade to 
dry. Keep the yeast in a box in a dr>' 
place. 

This mixture may be also kept and 
used as a liquid by simply stopping^ 
when you have come to the point 
where you must add the cornmeal. 
Let the mixture then stand in a warm 
place till it has thoroughly risen. 
Then scald a large Jar, wipe dry, and 
put in the yeast. Cover tight, and 
keep in a cool place. One-third of a 
cupful of yeast will make two loaves 
of bread. 



CHAPTER XLVIII 



Suitable Combinations 
for Serving 



BREAKFAST. 

Dejeuner 

The home breakfast is erenerally a 
modest repast, consistine frequently of 
such hors d'oeuvres as Cress, Radishes, 
etc., with some cereal (served with 
milk), beefsteak or fish, with potatoes, 
and one of many kinds of breads or 
griddle cakes, waffles or muffins. 

In Creole households fruits are al- 
ways served first at breakfast, and gen- 
erally raw. 

Cerealfl for Breakfast* 

Grits, Hominy, Oatmeal, Cracked 
Wheat, Corn meal Mush, Farina, Cereal - 
ine. Wheatena, etc. All these may be 
served with cream, milk, milk and 
sugar, or with gravies. 

Vegetables for Breakfast. 

Radishes, Cress. Sliced Cucumbers. 
Lettuce. Sliced Raw Tomatoes. Pota- 
toes cooked according to any of the 
many recipes herein. Stewed Tomatoes. 
Fried Sweet Potatoes, are all served at 
breakfast, the Taw vegetables as hors 
d'oeuvres. 

WarBft Breakfast Diskes. 

Broiled Tenderloin, Sirloin, Broiled 
Chops, Chicken, Ham, Fish, Fried Liver 
and Bacon. Fried Pork Tenderloin or 
Chops, Fried Pigs' Feet, Grlllades. Veal 
Cutlets Breaded, Sausage, Stewed Tripe. 
Stewed Kidneys, all kinds of Hash (tur- 
key, chicken, mutton, veal, beef, corn- 
beef or otherwise), all kinds of Meat, 
Fowl and Fish Croquettes, Codfish Balls. 
Creamed Codfish, Creamed Chicken. 
Stewed Meats. Eggs in every variety or 
cooking (such as boiled, fried, scram- 
bled, poached, on toast). Fried Ham and 
Eggs, Omelets, etc. 

Breakfast Breads and Cakes 

Any of the numberless varieties of 
Breads and Cakes, besides the Bakers* 
Bread, so generally used in New Or- 
leans, such as Rolls, Biscuit. Muffins, 
Waffles, Com Cakes, Griddle Cl^akes, 
Batter Cakes, Corn Bread, Muffin Bread, 
Sweet Potato Bread. Fritters, etc. 

Breakfast Beverages 

Coffee (Caf6 Noir and Caf6 au Lait), 
Chocolate. Cocoa and Tea (if preferred) 
may all be served as breakfast bever- 
ages. 



Hors d'Oewres for Breakfast 

These include Radishes, Canapes. 
Sliced Cucumbers, Sliced Raw Toma- 
toes, Lettuce, and in general any hors 
d'oeuvres that may be served at dinner. 



liUNCHBON 

Ooikter, 

Perhaps no meal admits of such infi- 
nite variety as luncheon. Almost any- 
thing may be served for luncheon, from 
cold left-over meats, fish, etc., and all 
hors d'oeuvres and salads to desserts. 
Tea, coffee, cocoa, chocolate, iced lem- 
onade, and almost all cold summer 
drinks, as well as fruits, are served ac- 
ceptably at luncheon. Hot or cold bread 
may be served, as all sorts of break- 
fast cakes and syrups. 

The order of service varies. For in- 
stance, fruits may be served at the be- 
ginning of the meal, or as a dessert at 
the close, and so also with watermelons 
and muskmelons. 



DINlfER 

Diner 

The Creoles divide dinners into three 
classes: The dinner of one course, of 
two courses, and of three courses. The 
first they havp appropriately named 
"Ambigu." because it admits of all 
dishes being brought to the table at the 
same time, from the soups to the des- 
serts, with most informal service. 
Among wealthy classes, the "Ambigu" 
is a dinner served hastily at night, 
after a theater or an opera party, out 
among the poorer classes the "Ambigu" 
is made a very pleasant meal. Hors 
d'oeuvres and such desserts as cakes 
and fruits are placed on the table be- 
fore the family is seated, and the soup 
is served as a "Relevft," all the other 
dishes, from the roasts to the entr6os 
and entremets and entremets s'^cr^s 
and salad, being placed on the table at 
the same time. Jellies, fruits and cake 
compensate for the absence of elabo- 
rate desserts, and the vegetables and 
sauces are few. Properly served, as is 
done daily in many a Creole home, an 
"Ambigu" may become an elegant re- 
past, though the viands are plain and 
simple. 

In dinners of two courses the soup 
is again the "Relev6,' and the fish or 



961 



362 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLiE COOK BOOK 



meats and all the vesretables* entremets 
and entries, and also the salad, consti- 
tute the first course. Salads, as a rule, 
should always be served with the 
roasts. The desserts constitute the sec- 
ond course. 

In dinners of three courses, followlngr 
always the French order of arransre- 
ment, which has ever been observed in 
eleerant Creole homes, the manner of 
service is this: 

First Course — Soup or Gumbo, Hors 
d'Oeuvres. 

Second Course — Fish (and with flsh 
are always served potatoes in some 
form). Relev^s (where another dish is 
desired). Entrees. Coup de MiUieu (a 
middle iced drink), ROtis or Roasts. 
Vegetables. Entrem/ets, Salads, Entre- 
mets Sucr^s. 

Third Course — Desserts. Compotes. 
Puddinsrs, Pies, Cakes. Pieces Ifbnt^es. 
Ices, Fruits, Petit Fours, Cheese, Cof- 
fee. 

Suitable Dlahen for Thene Varlovs 

Courses 

Hors d'Oeuvr«« 

ReliMheB. 

These may be either hot or cold, but 
ordinarily only cold hors d'oeuvres are 
used and are passed as appetizers or 
relishes between the courses. 

Cold Hors d'Oeuvres — Radishes, Cel- 
ery, Olives. Cress, Lettuce, Roquette, 
Pickled Onions, Sliced Cucumbers, 
Sliced Tomatoes. Pickles. Mangroes. Mel- 
ons, Anchovies, Sardines, Lyonnaise 
Sausagre (Saucissons Lyonnaise). Bread 
and Butter, Crackers, Anchovy Sand- 
wiches, Bologrna Sausagre cut and sliced. 
Told Ham. Pigrs* Feet, a Crawfish Bush 
(Buisson d'^crevisses). a Shrimp Bush 
(Buisson de Chevrettes). Boiled Craw- 
fish, River Shrimp on Ice, Oysters on 
Half Shell, Raw Oysters. Sliced or 
Quartered Lemon, Salted Almonds, 
Salted Peanuts, Canapes of Caviar, 
Ham, Crab, etc. 

Hot Hors d'Oeuvres — Petits Pftt^s au 
Jus (or small hot patties of meats, 
etc.). Boudins Noirs et Blancs (Boudin 
Sausagres, white and black). Rissoles, 
Sausagres with or without Truflles. 
Ro^nons k la Brochelte. or Broilfd 
Kidneys. Pijfs' Feet, Bouches d'Huitres 
or oyster patties. Fried Brains (whether 
of mutton or veal). Calves' Feet. Oxtail 
with Vinegar or Mustard Sauce. 

Entr^eM 

Entries are side dishes, and are 
served between the courses, imme- 
diately following: the flsh, and always 
precedingr the roast. Entries comprise 
all Stews, RagroQts, Salmis, Matelotes, 
Vol-au-Vents, Cutlets. Sweetbreads, 
Rissoles. Compotes of Meats, Fowl or 
Fish, Filets of Veal or Beef Saut6, etc.: 
all Daubes. whether of Meat. Fowl or 
Pigeons; Poulet au Riz, Poulet Saut4 
aux Champignons ou aux Petits Pols. 

ReleTCii 

Relev^s are side dishes added to a 
course when it is desired to serve an- 
other dish. They comprise Filets of 
Beef or Veal. Boiled Meats with many 
earnishes. Brochettes of Kidneys or 
TJver, Capons and Poulardes cooked 
with Rice. Poulet au Riz, Pa,t6s de Foies 



Gras, Loin of Veal, Knuckle of Veal. 
Sirloin Steak, etc.; Soft-Shell Crmb& 
Stuffed Crabs, etc. 

SntreBieta 

These are of two kinds. Vegetable 
Entremets and Sweet Entremets. The 
former comprise all vegetables, and one 
or two are always served with an en- 
trde; the remainder ara brought on with 
the roasts. Potatoes are always served 
with flsh. and are good with all meats. 
With fowls they are best mashed. 
Sweet potatoes are served with all 
roasts, especially Roast Pork; Onions. 
Squash, Cucumbers, Asparagus, Egg' 
plants are excellent with roast meata 
Carrots, Parsnips, Turnips, Pumpkin. 
Greens, Cabbage, are good with boiled 
meats. Corn, Green Peas. Beets, Peas. 
Beans, may be served with either boiled 
or roast meats. Mashed Turnips are 
appropriate to Roast Duck. Roast Pork 
and Mutton, and boiled meats, such as 
Boiled Mutton. Tomatoes and Green 
Peppers are served with every kind of 
meats. Green Peas are nice served w^ith 
Young Spring Lamb. Sweetbreads. 
Filets of Veal or Beef. Spring Chicken, 
etc. Spinach is a proper accompani- 
ment to veal. Lemons cut into dice 
may be served with all fowls and flsh. 

Sweet Bntremets 

These comprise all kinds of Fritters 
or Beignets. various sweet Omelets, and 
Fruits cooked in divers manners. (Sec 
chapter on Sweet Entremets.) Fritters, 
etc.. are served in the middle of the 
course, often just before the Coup de 
Millleu. with the entries. Sweet Entre- 
mets such as Omelette Soufll6, always 
precede the dessert, being served imme- 
diately after the roasts. 

Roasts 

These comprise all manner of Roast 
Meats. Poultry. Game etc. The Salads 
are always brought to the table and 
served with the Roasts. 

Desserts 

These comprise all manner of Com- 
potes, Pies, Puddings, Cakes. Jellies and 
Marmalades, Preserves, Fruits, Ices. 
Petits Fours. Bonbons, etc. Cheese and 
Nuts, are brought to the table with the 
Desserts. Coffee is served as a finale to 
all dinners, banquets and suppers. 

How to UtUlae Left-OTer Food 

Never throw away scraps of bread or 
broken crusts or stale bread. Take all 
the broken pieces and brown them In 
the stove, and roll them on the bread 
board till grated fine, and sift through 
a coarse sieve. Again roll the crunrubs 
that remain in the sieve, and sift as be- 
fore. Put them all into a Jar and cover, 
and keep them for use in cooking. A 
box of bread crumbs for dishes pre- 
pared "au Gratin" is indispensable In a 
kitchen 

Left-over stale bread lb also used in 
making Bread Puddings, Bread Muffins. 
Queen Pudding, etc. 

Use all broken pieces of cakes in 
making puddlnrs. such as Banana Souf- 
fle, and all Cake Puddings. 

All cold left-over mashed potatoes 
may be used for making Croquettes or 
Puffs or Quenelles of Potatoes. CoM 



THE PICAYUNE CREOUE: COOK BOOK 



363 



boiled potatoes left over may be utilized 
in preparing: Lyonnaise Potatoes or 
French Fried Potatoes. 

Left-over Greens may be used in 
making: Salads. Left-over fish and 
chicken may be used in making Fish 
or Chicken salad & la Mayonnaise.. 

Left-over meat» whether veal, mut- 
ton or beef, may be used in making 
Hash Croquettes or Boulettes. 

Save all fat drippings and bits of fat 
meat and bacon skin. The former are 
excellent for frying: fritters and dough- 
nuts and pancakes; the latter for grreas- 
in^ the grriddle for corn cakes, etc. 

Keep all coarse, rough ends of beef- 
steak or sirloin, or the ends of tender- 
loin steaks. They make excellent stews 
or croquettes or meat balls. 

The remains of yesterday's roast beef 
or mutton may be utilized in croquettes 
for breakfast, or cold meat for lunch- 
eon. 

Remains of turkey or chicken or rab- 
bit may be used in making Gumbos. 

Save all left-over rice for Riz au 
Lait, griddle cakes, Calas, Jambalaya, 
etc. 

All left-over cold boiled meat from 
soup may be used for Beef Hash. • 

When you have finished with the ham 
bone, do not throw it away, but after 
chipping all the meat off for "Frizzled 
Ham," boil the bone with cabbage or 
turnip or other vegetable greens, or 
with red or white beans or lentils. It 
gives a flavor to these dishes that they 
would not have otherwise. 

Keep all the green parts of the Cel- 
ery tips that are not used for a table 
decoration when celery is served and 
use for flavoring for soups, salads, 
stews, etc. 

Turnips and beans left over from yes- 
terday may be made into a pur6e for 
dinner next day. 

Keep all pieces of Plain or Puff Paste 
that are trimmed from me pies or pat- 
ties. Roll them over again, cut into 
squares, and serve at supper with pre- 
serves spread over them. Or simply put 
in the ice box and use the next day in 
making Rissoles with left-over meat. 

When making Gold Cake, save the 
whites of the eggs for Silver Cake. Or 
they may be used for making Angel 



Cake. Apple iSnow, and all other forms 
of desserts in which Meringues are 
called for. 

Finally, do not waste anything in the 
kitchen. Our grandmothers scrupulous- 
ly saved every piece of bone or fat, and 
these were utilized in making soft soap. 

The careful housekeeper will manage 
to keep out of debt and set a good 
table, with much variety, on a small 
allowance, by faithfully saving and 
utili'zing the left-overs. 

Invalid Cookery 

It has not been thought necessary to 
add a chapter on "Invalid Cookery ' in 
this book, as all Creoles know how to 
prepare dainty articles of diet for the 
sick. Invalid cookery, moreover, does 
not differ much from the general house- 
hold cookery, and all recipes given in 
this book for Bouillons, Oyster Soups, 
delicate Purees, Chicken Broth, Toasts. 
Broiled Chicken and Birds. Broiled Ten- 
derloin Steak, delicate Custards, such 
as Milk Custards, Riz au Lait, Blanc 
Mange, Jellies, Gruels, Porridge, Egg 
Toasts, Fruit Waters, Mint Julips, Cob- 
blers, Egg Nogg, Blackberry Cordials, 
etc.; delicate ways of serving oranges 
and other fruits — in fact, almost any- 
thing that may be ordered by a phy- 
sician, from a Beef Broth or Oyster 
Soup to Milk Toast or Charlotte Russe, 
may be found in The Times-Picayune 
Creole Cook Book. Reference has only 
to be made to the Index, and with a 
slight reduction of quantity in all pro- 
portions, say about one-fourth, for a 
dish intended for one person, the foods 
may be prepared. 

The serving is the most important 
point after cooking. Never crowd a 
tray intended for an invalid. Spread 
a dainty napkin on the salver. Arrange 
the food in a most appetizing way, lay 
a rosebud or a flower fresh from the 
f^arden on the waiter, and bring in the 
dainty, tempting morsel with a ^appy, 
cheery smile, though your heart may 
be sinking. The dish, in nine cases out 
of ten, will not fail to please, while 
your sunny smile will encourage the 
patient, and make him feel that his 
recovery is certain. Then the battle 1a 
half won. 



CHAPTER XLIX 



\ARIETIES or SEASONABLE FOODS 



The Creoles have an old adagre that 
"Nature itself tells us what to eat," In 
the various vesretables and fruits of each 
season, and in the varieties of flsh and 
fresh meat that are particularly adapted 
to each clime. As the months wane, 
and a new season dawns, the Creole 
housekeeper, even of unlimited means, 
far from trusting- entirely to servants 
to do the marketing, makes it her duty 
to take a leisurely stroll through the 
Market, where all the first fruits, vege- 
tables, flsh and game of the season are 
to be found, and she takes her own 
mental notes, and knows Just what to 
order when her cook comes fOr the 
daily interview. 

For the convenience of housekeepers 
grenerally, however, we will close this 
Creole Cook Book by giving- the vari- 
eties of seasonable foods to be found In 
our latitude for each month of the 
year. By a simple daily reference lo 
this list, the housewife may at once 
make her selections for the home menu. 
With slight modifications the list may 
be useful in any latitude. Again, to fa- 
cilitate the choice of the housekeeper 
as to viands, a daily menu is given for 
one week, as also for great festivals, 
such as Christmas, New Year's, Easter 
and Thanksgiving Day. 



Seasonable Foods Fron 

Deeember 



Jannary to 



JANUARY 

Meats 

Dea Viandea. 
Beef, Mutton, Pork, Lamb. 

Poultry 

De la Volaille. 

Turkey, Chicken, Capons, Geese. Do- 
mestic Ducks, Pigeons, Guinea Fowl. 



Oai 

Olbier. 

Canvas-back Ducks, Mallard Ducks. 
Squab. Bficassine or Snipe, B^casses or 
Woodcock, Partridge, Quail, Venison, 
and a variety of small birds. Rabbit, 
Hare, Squirrel and Poule d'Eau. 

Flsh 

Poision. 

Redflsh. Redsnapper, Flounder. Sheeps- 
head, ^Spanish Mackerel. Pompano, 
Grouper. Green Trout, River Trout, 
Speckled Trout, Croakers, Blueflsh, Sa- 
calalt, Patassas. Green Turtle, Dia- 
mondback Terrapin, Frogs, Oysters, 



Hard-shell Crab, Soft-shell Crab, LAke 
Shrimp, River Shrimp, Crawfish. 

Tesetables 

Des L€gume9. 
Fresh Ve'^etables may be had as fol- 
lows: Beets, Cabbage. Carrots, ChervlL 
Celery. Cress. Corn Salad, Cauliflower, 
Endive or Chicoree, Spinach, Salsify. 
§?''J'®*u^^^"®®' Parsley, Parsnips. Ra- 
dish. Roquette for salad. Mustard for 
salad, Turnips, Leeks and Rutabaga. 

Frolts 

Dea Fruits. 

Fresh fruits: Bananas. Pears. Apples, 
Oranges, Grapes Lemons, Pineapples. 

Cranberries. 



FBBRUARY 

Meats 

Dea Viandea, 
Beef, Mutton, Pork, Liamb. 

Poultry 

De La VolaUle, 
Turkey, Capons. Chickens, Guinea 
Fowl, Geese. Domestic Ducks and 
Pigeons. 

Game 

GilHer. 

Canvas-back Ducks, Mallard Ducks. 
Teal Duck. Squab, Becassine or Snip? 
Becasse or Woodcock, Partridge. Quiffi 
Wild Turkey, Wild Geese, Rabbit. Hare 
Squirrel. Poule d'Eau. Venison. ' 

Flsh 

Poisaon. 

Redflsh, Redsnapper, Flounder, Span- 
ish Mackerel, Sheepshead, Green Trout 
Speckled Trout, Croakers. Blueflsh 
Green Turtle. Diamond-back Terrapin! 
^J*^,?^;, Oysters, Hard-shell Crab. Soft- 
shell Crab, Lake Shrimp, River Shrimp, 
v^ra^r nsn. 

Vegetables 

Dea L4gumea. 
Beets, Carrots, Cabbage, Chervil. Cel- 
ery, Cress, Cornsalad. Cauliflower. En- 
dive or Chicoree, Spinach, Salsify, Sor- 
rel, Lettuce. Parsley. Parsnips. Radish. 
Roquette, Mustard, Turnips. Leeka! 
Rutabaga. 

Fruits 

Dea Fruita. « 

Bananas. Pears, Apples. Oranges. 
Grapes, Lemons, Pineapples. Cranber- 

ries. 



364 



TIIE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



365 



MARCH 

Meat* 

Des Viandes. 
Beef, Veal, Mutton, Lamb, Pork. 

Poultry 

De la Volaille, 
Turkey, Ducks and Pigeons (do- 
mestic), Geese. Chickens, Capons, 
Youngr Pullets. 

Game 

Oihier 
All the grame common to February 

Fish 

Poiason, 

The first Pompano of the season used 
to appear in March. It was much 
aoufifht after. Of late years it has be- 
come so abundant that It is now shipped 
during every month of the year to 
every part of the Union. In February 
we have also Redfish, Redsnapper. 
Spanish Mackerel, Flounders, Trout, 
Croakers, Bluefish, Grouper, Saccalalt, 
Patassas, Sheepshead, Perch, Hard-shell 
Crab, Soft-shell Crab, Oysters, Green 
Turtle, Terrapin, Lake and River 
Shrimp, Crawfish. 

Vegetables 

Des Legumes. 

All the above-mentioned Vegetables 
for February are to be found in the 
market in March, with the addition of 
Green Peas. The large Marrowfat 
Green Peas are hardy, and are planted 
from October to the end of March, 
while the little French Pea (Petit Pols) 
is more subject to damage from freeze, 
and is planted during January, and un- 
til April, ripening a crop in from forty 
to sixty days, according to weather 
and cultivation. 

The vegetables for the month stand 
as follows: New Green Peas, Beets, 
Cabbage. Carrots, Chervil, Celery, 
Cress, Cornsalad, Cauliflower, Endive, 
Spinach, Salsify, Sorrel, Lettuce, Pars- 
ley. Parsnips, Roquette, Mustard, Tur- 
nips, Leeks, Rutabaga. 

Frnlts 

De8 Fruits. 

The first Strawberries appear early 
in March, having been ripened at the 
end of February, when the blossom 
escapes the freezes that begin regularly 
in February. Oranges. Bananas, Pine- 
apples, etc., are plentiful. 



APRIL 

Meats 

Des Viandes. 
Beef. Veal, Mutton, Pork, Lamb, 
Spring Lamb. (This Is Lamb born dur- 
ing the winter and reared under shelter, 
and fed almost entirely on milk. It is 
killed in the spring, generally at Easter 
time, and is a regular accompaniment 
of the Creole Easter dinner. It is a 
great delicacy, for Lamb that is not 
over six months old makes good eat- 
ing.) 



Poultry 

De la VolaiUe. 

Chicken, Young Guinea Fowl, Greeti 
Geese, Young Ducks, Capons. 

Fish 

Poisson. 

Pompano, Spanish Mackerel, Red- 
snapper, Redfish, Bluefish, Grouper, Sea 
Trout, Brook Trout, Croakers, Perch. 
Saccalait, Patassas, Green Turtle, Frogs' 
Legs, Hard-shell Crab, Soft-Shell Crab, 
Poule d'Eau. 

Oysters begin to grow milky in the 
latter part of April, when kept stand- 
ing for any length of time, and are, 
consequently, not eaten by the Creoles, 
unless they are at the lakeside, where 
the toothsome bivalve is taken directly 
from the waters. From April till Sep- 
tember, following the old adage that 
Oysters are good in every month in 
which an **R" occurs, the Oysters will 
disappear from this list of seasonable 
fish. Nevertheless, in nearly all the 
large restaurants of New Orleans they 
are served. 

Gante 
Gihier 

Mallard Ducks, Canvas-back iJucks, 
Spring Teal Ducks, Squabs, Snipe. 
Woodcock, Partridges. 

Vegetables 

Des Ldgumes. 

This is a most interesting month in 
the New Orleans markets. We have all 
the staple articles from the open 
ground, but besides Green v sweet) Pep- 
pers, Tomatoes and Eggplants, sown in 
November, and kept under glass untii 
late in March, make their appearance 
at this time. The general crop of 
Green Peas is now in the market, and 
within the range of everybody's purse' 
New Potatoes are quite plentiful. 
Snap Beans are gradually getting 
cheaper, and the thousands of bushel 
boxes go by express every day to Nor- 
thern points. Early Corn and Arti- 
chokes, from the Lower Coast of Louisi- 
ana, arrive with every boat. The 
market stands: New Potatoes, New 
Green Peas. Early Corn, Sweet Green 
Peppers, New Tomatoes, Eggplants, 
Hot Peppers, Snap Beans, and all the 
vegetables mentioned in the list for 
March. (See March Vegetables.) 

Fruits 

Des Fruits. 

The Japan Plum, also called the Med- 
lar, or Loquet, and in familiar Creole 
Mespilus, ripens in the beginning of 
April, while the Mariana Plum comes In 
about the middle of April, if the weath- 
er is good. Strawberries are now 
plentiful and cheap. Dewberries and 
Blackberries are brought in by the 
negroes in large quantities, and are 
sold on the streets. We have also a 
continued abundance of Apples. Or- 
anges, Bananas, Pineapples, etc. 

BIAY 

Meatr 

Des Viandes. 

Beef, Veal. Mutton, Lamb, Pork. 



366 



THE PICAYUNE CREOI/E COOK BOOK 



Poultry 

De la YolaUle. 

SprinsT Chickens, Youngr Ducks, Chtck- 
ens, Capons, Green Geese, Young: Tur- 
key. (Dlndonneau; considered a irreat 
delicacy). 

Flail 

Poinnou. 

The same as for the month of April. 

Vegetables 

Des LCgume%. 

During: the month of Mav the New 
Orleans markets are fairly grlutted with 
Snap Beans, Green Peas, Peas, Lentils, 
Cucumbers, Young: Onions, Potatoes, 
etc. Tomatoes and Eg:g:plants that 
have ripened in the open ground fill 
the stalls. Cabbag:e, which does not 
resist much heat or drought, g:rows 
scarce, as also celery.' Otherwise the 
veg:etable8 continue in abundance, the 
same as found in the list for March. 
(See March Vegetables.) 

Young: Squash makes its appearance 
this month, and is plentiful. The tirst 
Muskmelons arrive In New Orleans 
from the parishes and grardens around 
the city towards the middle of May, 
and watermelons come in fine and 
juicy at the end of the month. Carloads 
of Creole Onions and New Potatoes are 
shipped North. 



QiUcr 

The g:ame laws now begrin to be en- 
forced, and, with the exception of Sand 
Snipe and Reed Birds, we have little 
g:ame until the 1st of September, when 
the hunting: season opens. 

Frnlts 

DcB Fruits. 

The first peaches ripen tog:ether with 
the large-fruited Plums. In a week or 
so these fruits overrun the market. 
Figs begin to ripen towards the end of 
the month, if the weather has been 
warm during April. Orano'es. Bananas, 
Pineapples, etc., continue plentiful. 



JUNE 

Meats 

/>f« Viandes. 

Beef. Veal. Mutton. Lamb, but Pork 
is t'^schewed In New Orleans from June 
to about October or November, as, from 
hysfenic principles, it should never be 
eaten in warm weather. 

Poultry 

Df la Volaille. 

• Spring Chicken.s, Chickens, Geese, 
Young Turkeys, Pigeons. 

Caanie 

Oibier 

The famous Pababotte makes its ap- 
pearance this month, and remains a de- 
lightful article of food till the middle 
of October. In the months of August 
and September they are very fat and 
excellent and always much prized ly 
epicures and connoisseurs. Reed Birds, 
Grassets, Robins, Larks, which are the 



terror of the rice planters, appear in 
abundance, and overrun the market. 

Flflk 

Poisaon. 
The same as for the month of April. 

Vesetablea 

X>e« Ligumes. 

Melons are gradually gaining the first 
place in the market, and are shipped to 
all points. Peas are beginning to get 
scarce. Celery is now supplied by the 
Northern markets and is found in abun- 
dance. Butterbeans and Lima Beans 
appear in the market, and are in great 
demand, especially the Butterbeans. 
The market stands: Butterbeans, Snap 
Beans, Green Peas, Celery, Lima Beans. 
Beets, Carrots. Chervil, Cress, Corn- 
salad. Cauliflower, Corn. Endive, Spi- 
nach. Salsify, Sorrel, Lettuce, Parsley, 
Parsnips, Radish, Roquette, Mustard, 
Turnips, Leeks and Rutabaga. 

Fruits 

Des Fruits. 

Peaches and Plums arrive in large 
quantities. The Lecomte Pears and 
Grapes ripen quickly under the hot rays 
of the June sun, and are soon within 
reach of everyone's purse. Figs are 
plentiful, and are being bought up by 
the canning establishments, but almost 
all the older homes of New Orleans 
have fig trees in their gardens or yards, 
and the luscious tropical fruit is within 
the reach of all. Strawberries, Black- 
berries, Dewberries, Bananas. Oranges, 
Pineapples, Muskmelons, Cantaloupes, 
Watermelons, which may be justlv 
classecl under the heading of fruits, be- 
cause they are eaten as such for des- 
serts in New Orleans, are everywhere 
in abundance. 

JULY 

Meats 

I)c8 Viandes. 
Beef, Mutton, Lamb, Veal. 

Poultry 

Di' la VolaiUt: 

Chickens, Young Geese. Spring Chick- 
ens, Pigeons. 

Game 
Gibier 

Pababotte, Reed Birds, Grassets, Rob- 
ins, Larks, Quail. 

Fish 

PoiasoH. 

The same supplies as for the month 
of April. (See April Fish.) 

Vegetables 

Dee Legumes. 

To use the familiar saying of the 
New Orleans dealers, "The Watermelon 
is now the boss of the market." It is 
placed on ice and eaten at any hour of 
the day. being most cooling and re- 
freshing. Vegetables 'produced with 
much hard work cannot now compete 
with the popularity of the Watermelon, 
which is a favorite with all classes. 



THK PICAYVNK CRKOLK COOK BOOK 



367 



and is put on the market in enormous 
quantities. Carloads arrive each day 
from the parishes and from the truck 
farms around New Orleans, and they 
are bought up" as fast aa offered. One 
famous specimen, recently called the 
••Triumph," weighing from ninety to 
one hundred pounds, was found to be as 
sweet as honey. Other vegetables are 
the same as in June. (See June.) 

Fruits 

Dea Fruits. 
Pears. Grapes and Peaches continue 
in abundance. The Fig is everywhere, 
and Strawberries. Blackberries, Or- 
anges and Pineapples are ^*lt*^V'. .^fSi 
ons are in great demand, the Creoles 
using large quantltleH of the ooolinp 
Iced Lemonacle all during the summer 
months. 

AUGUST 
MeatM 

Dc8 Viandea. 
Beef, Veal. Mutton, Lamb. 

Ponltry 

De la VolaiUe. 
Chicken. Young Geese, Young Guinea 
Fowl, Pigeons. 

Gam« 

Oihier 
Papabotte. Heed BircLs. (Jrassets, Rob- 
ins, Larks. Squab. 

Fiah 

Poi88on. 
The same supplies as for the month 
of June. (See June Fish.) 

Vegetables 

Des Legumes. 
Snap Beans. Peas, Eggplant. Squash, 
Cucumber, Corn, Lettuce, Carrots, Beets, 
Parsnips, Spinach. Potatoes, Tomatoes, 
Butterbeans, Lima Bean.s. Onions, Shal- 
lots, Green Peppers, Broccoli, Cauli- 

flower. 

August Is the poorest of all months 
for vegetables. The Snap Beans begin 
to get hard and stringy: and the lettuce 
soft under the rays of the sun. But 
people are quite content. Melons con- 
tinue in abundance, and the markets 
are stocked with fruits, and all know 
that in a month there will be «• new 
crop of autumn vegetables. 

Frutts 

Dee FruUa. 
Peaches, Pears, Plums, Grapes. Figs, 
Mespilus, Oranges. Bananas, Pineap- 
ples, Lemons, Grape Fruit, are all In 
abundance. 

StEFTBMBBR 

MeatM 

Dea Viandea. 

Beef, Veal. Mutton, Lamb. 

Poaltry 

De la Volaille. 
Spring Chicken. Young Turkeys, 
Geese. Guinea Fowl, Pigeons, Domestic 
Ducks. 



Game 

OihUr 

Woodcock, Snipe, Larks, Wild Ducks, 
Canvas-back Ducks, Partridges, Quail. 
Squab. Mallard Ducks and Teal Ducks 
are rare. 

FlMh 
Poiaaon. 

Pompano, Redsnapper, Redflsh, Span- 
ish Mackerel, Flounder, Grouper, Blue- 
ttsh, Sheepshead, Trout, Croakers, Green 
Turtle, Terrapin, Frogs, Hard-shell 
Crab, Soft-shell Crab, Lake Shrimp, 
Crawfish. The Oyster is with us again, 
iind remains a delightful article of food 
till the latter part of April. 

Vegetables 

Dea L€gumea. < 

Potatoes, Turnips, Artichokes, Peas, 
Beans, Carrots, Onions, Tomatoes, Sal- 
sify. Mushrooms, Lettuce, Sorrel, Cel- 
ery, Brussels Sprouts, Cauliflower, 
Syv'eet Potatoes, Squash, Eggplant, 
Cucumber, Green Pepper, Parsnips, 
Cress. 

Fruits 

Dea Fruita. 

Fruits throughout September con- 
tinue the same as in August, with still 
more generous supplies of Oranges, Ba- 
nanas and Pineapples. 



OCTOBER 

Meats 

DvH I'iandca. 
Beef, Veal, Mutton, Lamb, Pork. 

Poultry 

De la Volaille. 

Turkey. Chicken, Spring Chicken, 
Geese, Guinea' Fowl, Domestic Duck, 
Pigeons. 

Game 

Gihier 

Venison, Canvas-back Duck, Wood- 
cock, Snipe, Partridge, Quail, Reed 
Birds, Larks, Grassets. Robins, Squab, 
Mallard and Teal Ducks continue to be 
rare till November. 

. Fish 

Poiaaon. 

Pompano, Redsnapper. Redflsh, Span- 
ish Mackerel, Sheepshead, Flounder, 
Grouper, Blueflsh, Trout. Croakers. 
Green Turtle, Terrapin. Poule d'Eau. 
Frogs, Hard-shell Crab, Soft-shell 
Crab. Lake Shrimp, Crawflsh, Oysters. 

Vegetables 

Dea L^gumea. 

Snap Beans and Green Corn sown in 
the end of August and early In Septem- 
ber, are with us again In abundance. 
Radishes are juicy and brittle. Turnips 
are young and tender, and appear on 
time, to serve with "Salmi of Wld 
Ducks." Blood Beets and Young Car- 
rots add to the assortment of vegeta- 
bles, which gradually Increase and as- 
sume the diversity of the crops of the 
early sprine. All the vegetables that 
are found under the lists for March and 
April are again with us in October. 
4 See lists for March and April.) 



368 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



FnUte 

De< PruiU, 

The first Louisiana Oraneres from the 
sprint: buddlner appear in the market 
this month, the Creole and the Satsumas 
being the first to ripen. Other fruits 
are Peaches, Pears, Plums, Grapes, Or- 
aneres, Bananas, Pineapples and some 
late Fiffs. 

NOVEMBER 

Heats 

De8 ViandeM 
Beef, Veal, Mutton, Lamb, Pork. 

PoaltrT' 

, De la Volaillc. 
Turkey. Chickens, Spring: Chickens, 
Domestic Ducks and Pigreons. 



Gibier 

Canvas-back Ducks, Wild Ducks of 
many varieties. Woodcock, Snipe, Part- 
ridgres, Robins, Larks, Reed Birds. Quail, 
Rabbits, Hares, Squirrel. Venison. Teal 
Ducks and Mallard Ducks are abun- 
dant. Poule d'Eau appears In Novem- 
ber. 

Fish 

Poi88on. 
All varieties found under the list for 
October hold good for November. (See 
list for October.) 

Vegetables 

The market is now splendid with a 
variety of vegretables, principally Snap 
Beans, New Corn, Butterbeans, Beets. 
Cabbagre, Carrots, Chervil, Celery, Cress, 
Cornsalads. Cauliflower, Endive, Spi- 
nach, Salsify. Sorrel, Lettuce, Parsley. 
Parsnips, Roquette, Mustard, Turnips. 
Leeks, Rutabaga, Brocoli. 

In new varieties we have now the 
second crop of New Potatoes, that were 
planted by the farmers in Augrust. The 
Crooked-neck Pumpkin, or Cashaw, is 
with us, and is in demand, as also the 
Globe Pumpkin. The Sweet Potatoes 
continue to arrive in abundance. The 
first New Cabbagre reaches the market, 
as also New Lettuce. Spinach. Turnips. 
Kohlrabi, so much eaten by the Italian 
population, and other vegretables are 
most plentiful* and cheap. 



DECEMBER 

Meats 

Des ViandcM. 
Beef, Veal. Mutton, Pork. 

Povltry 

De la Volaillc. 

Turkeys, Chickens. Spring: Chickens. 
Capons. Geese. Domestic Ducks, Guinea 
Fowl. 

Game 

Omer. 

Venison. Snipe, Woodcock. Partrldgre. 
Robins. Grassets. Larks. Squab, Canvas- 
back Ducks, Mallard Ducks, Teal Ducks. 
Quail, Rabbits, Hare. Squirrel and a 
number of s:ame of grood varieties. 



Poi99on, 

All fish common to the New Orleans' 
markets in the months of January and 
November hold for December. Flah now 
has an excellent flavor, and is found 
daily on our tables. 

Veiretablea 

Dea Liffumet. 

All vegretables common to November 
(See list) are plentiful in December. 

Froita 

De» Fruit: 

All fruits common to November (see 
lists) are to be had in December. It is 
the holiday season and the markets 
are abundantly supplied. 

In thit Gvoceriea at All Scnaona 
Meat* 

Canned Beef, Corned Beef, Chipped 
Beef, Canned Beef and Pork Tongue, 
Ham, Salt Pork, Deviled Ham, Break- 
fast Bacon, Pigs* Feet, Sausagres, Lyon- 
naise Sausagre. Hogs' Head Cheese, Ex- 
tract of Beef. Canned meats are not 
generally used in New Orleans in sum- 
mer, but they are much used as lunch- 
eon and supper dishes in winter. 

Fowl. 

Canned Turkey, Chicken, Ducks, Pig- 
eons, Foies Oras. etc. All these are 
used more generally in winter. 

Fish 

Salt Codflsh^ Salt Mackeral, Herrings, 
Salt Roe. Smoked Salmon, Smoked 
Halibut, Canned Lobster, Canned 
Shrimp, Canned Salmon, Canned Oys- 
ters, Sardines, Anchovies. Anchovy But- 
ter, Caviars. 

Game 

Dried Venison, Buffalo Tongue, Wild 
Meats, etc. 

Vegetables 

Canned Corn, Green Peas, Asparagua 
Tomatoes. Cauliflower, Cabbage, Brocoli, 
Cucumbers (pickles). Lima Beans. 
Dried White and Red Beans, Split Peas. 
Kidney Peas, Carrots, Parsnips and 
Horseradish. 

Fralts 

Lemons, Canned Peaches, Pears, Pine- 
apples. Cherries, Grapes, Plums, Dam- 
sons, Grapefruit, Cranberries, Strawber- 
ries, Raspberries, Blackberries, Cur- 
rants. All the above canned fruits 
made into Jellies, marmalades and pre- 
serves. All manner of Preserves, Con- 
fltures. Dried Apples, Dried Peachea 

Pleklea and Savces 

Chow-chow, Mixed, Sweet Cucumber. 
Gherkins, Green Tomatoes, Sweet To- 
mato, Cauliflower, Pickled Onions, etc. 
All kinds of Sauces and Salad Dress- 
ings generally. 

Hats 

Pecans, Peanuts, Filberts, Hickory 
Nuts. Brazilian Nuts. English Walnuts, 
Walnuts. Chestnuts (in season). Louiai- 
ana Pecans. 



THE PICAYITNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



369 



MBNYJS 

The followinsr Menus are intended as 
weekly sufiTfiTestions for Breakfast, 
Luncheon and Dinner. Two sets are 
sriven — one for families whose means 
will permit of a more elaborate expend- 
iture of money, the other for families 
of limited means. Another set of 
Menus, also, is intended as a special 
suggestion for holiday feasts. These 
Menus have been prepared with par- 
ticul&r c&re 

With modifications, as regards fish, 
and game, especially, the following 
Menus may be adapted to any section: 



WKEKLY 9UGGB8T10NS 
Menu for Rloiiday 

BREAKFAST 

Sliced Oranges. 
Boiled Grits. Milk or Cream. 
Pried Croakers. 
Broiled Spring Chicken. Potato Cro- 
quettes. 
Radishes. Watercress. 
Batter Cakes. Butter. Louisiana Syrup. 
Cafe au Lait. 
The Daily Times-Picayune. 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters on Half Shell. Oyster Crackers. 

Pickles. 

Thin Slices of Cold Ham. 

Lettuce Salad. Fretich Dressing. 

Cheese. Lemon Jelly Wafens. 

DINNER 

Okra Gumbo. 

Celery. Olives. Salted Almonds. 

Boiled Sheepshead, Cream Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Roast Filet of Beef, Tomato Sauce. 

Boiled Rice. Green Peas. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. Asparagus. 

Beet Salad. French Dressing. 

Queen's Pudding. Wine Sauce. 

Pineapple Ice. 

Roquefort. Fruit. Louisiana Nuts. 

Caf6 Noir. 

Menu for Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Grapes. 

Small Hominy, Sugar and Cream. 

Boiled Trout, Sauce ft. la Creme. 

Broiled Tenderloin Steak. 

French Fried Potatoes. 

Celery. Radishes. 

French Rolls. Butter. Caf^ au Lait. 

The Daily Times-Picayune. 

LUNCHEON 

River Shrimp on Ice. 

Cold Roast Beef. 

Tomato Salad, Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Hominy Croquettes. Celery. 

Cup Cake. Raspberry Jelly. Cheese. 

Tea or Cocoa. 

DINNER 

Cream of Tomato Soup, with CroQtons. 

Celery. Olives. Mangoes. 

Oyster Patties & la Reine. 

Noyau of Beef With Mushrooms. 

New Potatoes k la Parisienne. 

Louisiana Rice. 



Roast Canvas-back Duck, Mashed Tur- 
nips. 
Cauliflower au Vinaigrette. 
Charlotte Russe. 
Wafers. Neufchatel. 
Strawberry Jam. Fruits. Nuts. 
Cafe Noir. 



Menu for Wednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Prunes or Iced Figs (in Season). 

Wheatena. Milk. 

Broiled Tenderloin Trout, Sauce & la 

Tartare. 

Potato Chips. 

Broiled Ham. Scrambled Eggs. 

French Toast. Butter. 

Caf4 au Lait. 

The Daily Times-Picayune. 

LUNCHEON 

Caviars sur Canapes. 
Cold Duck. Lettuce Salad. Rice Cro- 
quettes. 
White Mountain Cake. 
Compote of Peaches. Cheese. 
Tea. Milk. 

DINNER 

Bayou Cook Oysters. 

Spanish Olives. Celery. 

Consomme de Volaille. 

Broiled Sheepshead, Sauce k la Mattre 

d'Hotel. 

Potatoes & la Duchesse. 

Lamb Cutlets Breaded, Sauce Soubisse. 

String Beans. Stuffed Cabbage. 

Spinach with Hard-Boiled Eggs. 

Roast Leg of Mutton, Mint Sauce. 

Roquette Salad. French Dressing. 

Lemon Pudding. 

Roquefort. 

Fruit. Nuts. 

Cafe Noir. 



Menii ;ror Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Bananas. 

Oatmeal. Cream. 

Broiled Patassas. Potato Croquettes. 

Cress. Radishes. 

Fried Liver and Bacon. Small Hominy. 

Waffles. Louisiana Syrup. Butter. 

Cafe au Lait. 

The Daily Times-Picayune. 

LUNCHEON 

River Shrimp on Ice. 

Fish Croquettes. Olives. 

Cold Mutton. Potato Salad. French 

Rolls. 
Brioche. Orange Marmalade. Fruit. 

Tea, 

DINNER 

Green Turtle Soup. CroOtoni?. 

Radishes. Celery. Olives, Pickles. 

Vol-au-Vent of Oysters. 

Veal Saute aux Champignons. 

Rice. Squash. 

Potatoes & la Cr^me. 

Roast Mallard Duck. Green Peas. 

Banana Fritters. 

Watercress Salad. Asparagus. 

Peach Pie. Rouquefort. 

Biscuit Glace. Assorted Cakes. 

Cafe Noir. 



370 



THE PK\\YUNE CREX>IiE C<K>K BOOK 



Menu for Friday 

BUKAKFAST 

Strawberries and Cream. 

Oatmeal, Cream. 

Fried Perch. Small Hominy. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. 

Corn Batter Bread. Butter. Louisiana 

Syrup. 

Caf6 au Lait. 

The Dally Times-Picayune. 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters on Half Shell. 
Fish Croquettes. Crackers. Pickles. 

(^hicoree Salad. 
Apple Float. Spongre Cake. Fruit. 

Cheese. 
Tea or Cocoa. 

DINNER 

Bisque d'Ecrevisse (Crawfish Bisque). 
Radishes. Cress. Celery. Olives. 
Broiled Pompano, Sauce d. la Maltre 

d'Hotel. 

Julienne Potatoes. 

Butterbeans. New Corn on the Cob. 

Boiled Youngr Creole Onions. 

Drawn Butter Sauce. 

Macaroni or Spaghetti d. la Creole. 

Salad Louisianaise. 

Riz au Lait. Angrel Cake. 

Lemon Wafers. Neufchatel. 

Raisins. Nuts. 

Caf4 Noir. 



Menu for Satarday 

BREAKFAST 

Muskmelon on Ice. 

Grits. Milk. 

Stewed Tripe. Omelette & la Creole. 

Flannel Cakes. Louisiana Syrup. 

Caf^ au Lait. 

The Daily Times-Picayune. 

LUNCHEON 

Anchovies. 

Fish Salad. Deviled Ham. Crackers. 

Blackberry Pie. Cheese Straws. 

Watermelon on Ice. 

Tea or Coffee. 

DINNER 

Cream of Asparagus Soup. 
Celery. French Olives. Pickles. 
Bouillabaisse (Redflsh and Red- 
snapper). 
Potatoes k la Maltre d'Hotel. 
Chicken Saut4 aux Petits Pols. 

Boiled Rice. 

Parsnips. Carrots k la Creole. 

Roast Venison. Current Jelly. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

(Ireen Pepper and Tomato Salad, 

French Dressing:. 

Peach Meringrue Pie. Roquefort. Fruit. 

Caf6 Noir. 



Bfeno for Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Peaches and Cream. 

Cracked Wheat, Milk. 

Broiled Spanish Mackerel. 

Sauce a. la Maltre d'Hotel. 

Julienne Potatoes. 

Radishes. 



Cream«d Chicken. Small Hominy. 
Rice Cakes. Butter. Louisiana Syrup. 

Caf4 au Lait. 
The Daily Times-Picayune. 

DINNER 

Gumbo Fil6. 
Radishes. Cress. Olives. 

Salted Almonds. 
Courtbouillon k la Creole. 

Potato Puffs. 
Sweetbreads k la Creole. 
Green Peas. 
Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce. 
Broiled Tomatoes. Stuffed Articliokea. 
Celery Salad, French Dressing. 
Nesselrode Pudding. 
Almond Cakes. Fruit. Assorted Xuis 
Edam Cheese. 
Caf6 Noir. 



SUPPER 

Oysters on Half Shell. 
Cold Turkey. Tomato Salad. French 

Toast. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Cheese. Fig Preserves. 

Tea. Milk. 



MKNUS FOR HOLIDAY FEASTS AHD 

BABraiXBTS 

A New Year's Mean 

Menu Pour le Jour de VAn. 

BREAKFAST 

Oranges. 
Oatmeal, Cream. 
Radishes. Cress. 
Broiled Trout Sauce k la Tartare. 
Potatoes d, la Duchesse. 
Creamed Chicken. Omelette aux Con- 
fitures. 
Batter Cakes. Louisiana Syrup. 
Fresh Butter. 
Caf6 au Lait. 
The Daily Times-Picayune. 

DINNER 

Oysters on Half Shell. 

Spanish Olives. Celery. Pickles. 

Salted Almonds. 

Green Turtle Soup, CroQtons. 

Broiled Spanish Mackerel, Sauce & la 

Maltre d'Hotel. 

Julienne Potatoes. 

Lamb Cutlets Breaded, Sauce Soublse. 

Green Peas. 

Sweetbreads k la Creole. 

Sherbet. . 

Roast Turkey. Cranberry Sauce. 

Baked Yams. Cauliflower au Gratin. 

Lettuce, Salad Dressing-. 

Poudlng a la Reine, Sauce. 

Mince Pie. 

Biscuit Glac4. Petits Fours. Fruits, 

Nuts. Raisins. 

Cheese. Toasted Crackers. " 

Cafe Noir. 

SUPPER. 

Cold Turkey, Currant Jelly. 

Celery Salad. 

French Rolls. Butter. Assorted Cakes. 

Fruits. Nuts. 

Tea. 



THE PICAYl'NE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



S71 



A Move BcoBoinical Neiv^ Year's Mens 

BREAKFAST. 
Sliced Orangres. 
Oatmeal and Cream. 
Broiled Lamb Chops. Julienne Pota- 
toes. Radishes. Celery. 
BsrST Muffins. Fresh Butter. Louisianna 

Syrup, 

Cafe au Lalt. 

The Daily Times-Picayune. 

DINNER. 

Consomm6. 

Radishes. Celery. Olives. Pickles. 

Boiled Sheepshead, Cream Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Vol-au-Vent of Chicken. 

Banana Fritters. 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce. 

Baked Tams. Sliced and Buttered. 

Green Pepper and Tomato Salad French 

DressingT- 

Pointes d'Asperg-es au Beurre. 

Mince Pie. Roquefort. 

Vanilla Ice Cream. Spongre Cake. 

Assorted Fruits. Nuts. Raisins. 

Caf6 Nolr. 

SUPPER 

Cold Turkey, Cranberry Sauce. 

Tomato Salad. 

Cake. Fruit. Tea. 

Mean for EUiater Saaday. 

BREAKFAST 

Strawberries and Cream. 

Small Hominy. Milk. 

Boiled Tenderloin, Trout, Sauce & la 

Cr^me. 

Potatoes ft la Parisienne. 

Cress. Radishes. 

Breakfast Bacon. Scrambled EgrsTs. 

Flannel Cakes. Loulsianna Syrup. 

Caf6 au L.ait. 

The Daily Times-Picayune. 

DINNER 

Caviars sur Canapes. 

Oyster Soup. Crackers. 

Mangroes. Olives. Salted Almonds. 

Broiled Pompano Sauce d, la Maitre 

d'Hotel. 
New Potatoes aux Beurre & la Maitre 

d'Hotel. 
Pigreons Sautes aux Champignons. 

Sherbet. 

Roast Lamb. Mint Sauce. Green Peas. 

Cauliflower au Beurre. 

Asparagrus. 

Salade aux Laltues et aux Cerfeuils. 

An^el Cake. Ice Cream. Bouch^s. 

Gr laches 

Fruit. Nuts. Raisins. Roquefort. 

Caf6 Noir. 

SUPPER 

Warmed-over Lamb. Currant felly. 

Celery Salad. 

Waffles. Louisiana Syrup. Fruit. 

Tea. 

A ThaakaslTlaff Meaa 

Menu pour le Jour d'Action des Grftces. 

BREAKFAST 

Grapes. 

Oatflakes and Milk. 

Broiled Tenderloin Steaks. Potato 

Chips. 
Milk Biscuits. Butter. 



Rice Griddle Cakes. Louisiana Syrup. 

Cs.t6 Noir. 
The Dally Times-Picayune. 

DINNER 

Oysters on Half Shell. 
Cream of Asparagrus Soup. . 
Spanish Olives. Celery. Mixed Pickles. 
Radishes. Salted Almonds. 
Baked Redsnapper k la Creole. 
Mashed Potatoes. 
Lamb Chops au Petit Pois. 
Pineapple Fritters. 
Pat^s de Foies Gras. 
Stuffed Tomatoes. 
Turkey Stuffed With Chestnuts, Cran- 
berry Sauce. 
Endive Salad, French Dressing:. 
Plum Puddiner. Hard Sauce. 
Pumpkin Pie. 
Lemon Sherbet. Assorted Cakes. 
Assorted Fruits. Assorted Nuts. 
Raisins. 
Neufchatel. 
Quince Marmalade. Crackers. 
Caf6 Noir. 

SUPPER 

Cold Turkey. Tomato Salad. 

Crackers. 

Cake. Fruit. Tea. 



A More Bcoaomlcal Thaaksfflvias 

DIaaer, 

Oysters on Half Shell. 

Shrimp Gumbo. 

Ifkdishes. Celery. Olives. Pickles. 

Soules & la Orly. Julienne Potatoes. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Banana Fritters. 

Roast Turkey, Oyster Stufflngr* 

Cranberry Sauce. 

Young Squash. Macaroni au Gratin. 

Small Onions, Boiled Sauce d, la Maitre 

d'Hotel. 

Cauliflower au Vinalgrrette. 

Plum Pudding:. Mince or Pumpkin Pie. 

Assorted Cakes. Nuts. Raisins. Fruit. 

Cheese. 



Meaa for Chrlmti 

Menu Pour la Noel. 

BREAKFAST 

Sliced Orangres. 

Boiled Grits and Cream 

Celery. Radishes. 

Fried Croakers, Sauce & la Tartare. 

Potatoe Chips. 

Broiled Lamb Chops. Small Hominy. 

Corn Cakes. Butter. Louisiana Syrup. 

Caf6 au Lait. 

The Christmas Times-Picayune. 

DINNER 

Bayou Cook Oysters. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

Spanish Olives. 

Celery. Young: Onions, Pickled. 

Radishes. Salted Almonds. 

Bouillabaisse (Redsnapper and Red- 

flsh). 

Louisiana Rice. 

Potatoes au Beurre Maitre d'Hotel. 

Vol-au-Vent of Plgreons. 

Green Peas, Buttered. 

Sherbet. 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 



372 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



Artichokes on Beurre Maltre d'Hotel. 

Asparagus. 

Mince Pie. Apple Pie. 

Strawberry Ice. Bouch6es. Massepalns. 

Petits Fours. 

Assorted Fruits. Assorted Nuts. 

Raisins. 

Bonbons d. la Creole. 

Edam Cheese or Roquefort. 

Water Crackers. 

Caffi Nolr. 

SUPPER 

Cold Turkey. Tomato Salad. 

Crackers. Cake. 

Marmalade of Apricots. Cheese. Fruit. 

Tea. 



More Economleal ChriatiUAs 

BREAKFAST 

Orang^es. 

Grits and Milk. 

Broiled Steak. Potatoes A. la 

Duchesse. 

Batter Cakes. Louisiana Syrup. 

Caf4 au La it. 
The Christmas Times-Picayune. 



DINNER 

Gumbo Fil6. 
Radishes. Cress. Pickled Onions. 
Courtbouillon. Mashed -PotatoeA. 
(This Course May Be Omitted.) 
Roast Turkey, Oyster Stuffinflr. Cran- 
berry Sauce. 
Baked Yams, Sliced an^^ Buttered. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 
Lettuce Salad, French Dressing. 
Plum Pudding. 
Mince Pie or Apple Pie. 
Pineapple Sherbet (May Be Omitted). 
Home-Made Spongre, Jelly and Pound 

Cakes. 

Apples, Oranges, Bananas, Grapes. 

(Or Simply One or Two Fruits.) 

An Assortment of Nuts and Raisins. 

Home-Made Creole Bonbons. 

Cheese. Crackers. Raspberry 

lade. 
Caf6 Noir. 



SUPPER 

Cold Turkey, Cranberry Sauce. 

Cheese. 

Jelly. Small Cakes. 

Tea. 



DINNER 

Oyster Cocktail. 

Celery. 

Radishes. Spanish Olives. 

Julienne Soup. 

Broiled Green Trout, Sauce R6moulade. 

Potatoes au Brabant. 

Green Peas. 

Roast TurKey, Cranberry Sauce. 

Baked Yams, Buttered. Winter 

Squash. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing. 

Plum Pudding. Mince Pie or Ao'^le Pie. 

Vanilla Ice Cream. 
Pound Cake or Jelly Cake. Fruits. 

Nuts. 

Raisins. 

Roquefort. Crackers. Currant Jelly. 

Caf6 Nolr. 



SUPPER 

Cold Turkey, Cranberry Sauce. 

Potato Salad. 

French Toast. Cheese and Jelly. Fruit. 

Tea. 



An 01d*Fasliioned Creole SuKKestion for 
Holiday Menus 

The following old-fashioned Creole 
holiday menu, in vogue for generations 
may be used by families whose means 
are very limited, but who, neverthe- 
less, with all the world, wish to enjoy 
themselves, and give to those about 
them a little Christmas cheer. 

BREAKFAST 

Sliced Oranges. 

Small Hominy and Milk. 

Potatoes & la Creole. 

Omelette ft. la Creole. 

Rice Cakes. Louisiana Syrup. 

Caf6 au Lait. 
The Dally Times-Picayune. 



SPBCIAJL MXSIfUS 

9iicveation« for Bananets or Porvaal 

Dlnnera 

Dinner 

Oysters on Half Shell. 

SOUPS OR POTAGES. 
Julienne or Consomm6 Royale. 

HORS D'OEUVRES (SIDE DISHES). 

Celery, Radishes, Queen Olives. Young 
Onions, Salted Almonds. 

POISSON (FISH). 

Broiled Pompano (in season) or Spanish 

Mackeral, Sauce d. la Maltre d'Hotel. 

Pommes de Terre k la Duchesse 

(Potatoes k la Duchesse). 

Sliced Cucumbers. 

RELEVfiS. 

Filet de Boeuf Truf^e aux Perig-ueux, 
or Saut6 aux Champignons. 

ENTREE 
Sweetbreads & la Creole. 

LfiGUMES 

, Green Peas. 

Stuffed Artichokes. Asparag'us. 

ROTIS 

Turkey Stuffed With Oysters or Chest- 
nuts. 
Snipe on Toast, or Pababotte & la 

(iJr^ole. 
Watercress. 

SALADE 

Whole Tomatoes Frappfts, or Lettuce 
Salad. French Dressing. 



TCTFIE PICAYUNE CREOUQ COOK BOOK 



373 



DESSERTS 

>Xes8elrode Pudding. Variegated Ice 

Cream. 

CL' tiocolate Layer Cake or Petlts Fours. 

Assorted Fruits. Assorted Nuts. 

Raisins. 

Edam or Roquefort Cheese 

Caf6 Nolr. 

Bfenu for Buffet linikcheoiui 

C^onsomm^ Dor6 en Tasse (Gilt-Edged 

Consomm^ in Cups) 

Sandwiches. Caviar on Toast. 

Radishes. Celery. Olives. Mixed 

Pickles. Salted A4mx>nds. 

Oyster Patties. 

lioned Turkey (Galantine Truf§e) or 

Cold Roast Turkey. 

Mayonnaise of Chicken or Shrimp. 

Biscuit GIac6 or Variegated Ice Cream. 

Assorted Cakes. Assorted Bonbons. 

Crystallized Fruits. 

Tea. Coffee. Cream. Chocolate. 

Iced I/emona^e. 

Menu for Sappen 

A supper admits of an appetizer. 
Oysters on Half Shell, served as an 
hors d'oeuvre, or Anchovies, caviars, 
etc.; a Soup or Gumbo; the usual hors 
d'oeuvres of Celery. Radishes, Cress, 
Pickled Onions, Mangoes, Salted Al- 
monds, etc.; Fish, broiled, baked. Court- 
bouillon or Bouillabaisse; entries of 
various kinds, to suit the taste and a1?o 
to correspond with the course of th(^ 
feast; sweet entremets; a roast, veg- 
etables, to be served with it, and salad; 
Kame of any variety, from Venison. 
Canvas-back, Mallard and Teal Ducks, 
to Papabottes, Snipe, Woodcock, etc.. 
on toast; Desserts, Fruits, Jellies, 
Cheese, Coffee. 

As a rule, any dinner menu may serve 
also for a supper, except in case of a 
state dining, and even then the rule 
given above should be observed. 



sonwBs. 

**SoIr6es" are pleasant forms of en- 
tertainments that have come down from 
earliest days in Louisiana. While elab- 
orate entertaining was also done, the 
Creole character being naturally gay 
and happy, with an inherited Fre'u*h 
fondness for the dance, for music and 
song and social intercourse, the young 
folks •had a way of giving weekly 
soirees, at which their parents served 
simple light refreshments, like th • 
famous "Sirops," ices of various kinds, 
lemonades and Petlts Fours, or small 
cakes, wafers and fruits. These re- 
freshments were passed around by the 
old-time servants, decked in gay ban- 
dana tignon, guinea blue dress and 
white apron, and kerrhlef pinned across 
the bosom. Later in the evening tea 
was served, and as the "Soiree" ad- 
vanced to the wee hours, coffee, choco- 
late and consomm4 in cups. 

Fathers took the greatest interest in 
the "Soirees" in their homes, and did 
the honors with distinguished courtesy. 
Inviting the older gentlemen, who acted 
as escorts for their daughters, to take 
a glass of wine or champagne, but 
liquors were never offered to the young 
people. Ice Cream, Lemonade and 



Cakes with a cup of Consomm6 or 
Caf6 Noir, as the evening advanced, 
were considered sufficient refreshment. 
Again, at these "Soir4es" the simple 
"Eau Sucrfi" was served in the homes 
of families of most limited means. These 
old-time "Soirees" still continue, though 
the "Eau Sucr4" parties have passed 
away with changing conditions. 



BCONOMICAL MEXrS 
Menn for Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Sliced Oranges. 

Small Hominy. Milk. 

Broiled Beefsteak. Julienne Potatoes. 

Batter Cakes. Louisiana Syrup. 

Caf6 au Lalt. 

The Dally Times-Picayune. 

LUNCHEON 

Muskmelon. 
Saucisses A la Creole. Hominy Cro- 
quettes. 
Fr-inch Rolls. Raspberry Jam. 

Tea. 

DINNER 

Vegetable Soup. 

Baked Redsnapper. 

Potatoes & la Maitre d'Hotel. 

Roast Beef, Tomato Sauce. 

Boiled Rice. Butterbeans. Lettuce Salad. 

Apple Dumplings k la Creole. Cheese. 

Caf4 Noir. 



MeMa for Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Meat Rissoles. Potato Croquettes. 

Biscuit. 

Rlcr Griddle Cakes. Louisiana Svriip. 

Caf4 au Lait. 

The Daily Times-Picayune. 

LUNCHEON 

Thin Slices of Boiled Ham. 

Compotes of Apples. 

Tea. 

DINNER 

Gumbo FI16. 

Roast Pork, Apple Sauce. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. String Bean 

Salad. 

Banana Cake. Cheese. 

Caf6 Nolr. 

Bfenii for liVednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Stewed Prunes. 

Oatmeal and Milk. 

Fried Ham. Scrambled Eggs. 

Sweet Potato. Waffles. Butter. 

Caf^ au Lalt. 

The Daily Tlmes-Plcayune. 

LUNCHEON 

Cold Roast Pork. 

Oatmeal Cakes. Salade & la Jardiniere. 

Ginger Snaps. Tea. 



374 



THE PICAinjNB CREOLE CXK>K BOOK 



DINNER 

Vermicelli Soup. 

Courtbouillon. Potatoes & la Duchesse. 

Grillades & la Sauce. Red Beans. Rice. 

Green Pepper and Tomato Salad. 

Pumpkin Pie. Cheese. Fruit. 

Caf6 Noir. 

Menii for Thumday 

BREAKFAST. 

Peaches and Cream (in Season). 

Rai^out of Mutton. Small Hominy. 

Cornmeal Cakes. Louisiana Syrup. 

Caf6 au Lait. 

The Dally Times-Picayune 

LUNCHEON 

• Fish Croquettes. Potato Salad. 
Jelly. Cheese. 
Crackers. Tea. 

DINNER 

Cream of Tomato Soup. 

Boiled I^mb Saut6 aux PetitIS Pols, 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Lettuce Salad. 

Riz au Lait. Cheese. 

Caf6 Noir. 

Mean for Friday 

BREAKFAST 

Pears (in Season). 

Boiled Hominy. Milk. 

Broiled Trout. 

Julienne Potatoes. Pain Perdu. 

Caf6 au Lait. 

The Dally Times-Picayune. 

LL^CHEON 

River Shrimp on Ice. 
Cheese Fondue. Dry Cakes. Orange 

Jelly. Tea. 

DINNER 

Pur4e of Red or White Beans. 
Spanish Courtbouillon. Potatoes d, la 

Duchesse. 

Jambalaya au Congrl. 

Stewed Cashaw. 

Blackberrv Roll. Hard Sauce. 

Caf6 Noir. 

Menu for Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Cracked Wheat. Milk. 

Grillades Pannes. 

Apple Fritters. Caf^ au Lait. 

The Daily Times- Picayune. 



LUNCHEON 

Fish Croquettes. 

Salad. 

Orange Short Cake. Tea. 

DINNER 

Vermicelli Soup. 

Daube or Beef & la Mode. 

Macaroni au Gratin. 

Spanish Jambalaya. Turnips & la 

Crdme. 

Lentils or Peas. 

Beet Salad, French Dressing. 

Sweet Potato Pudding, or Custard Pie. 

Cheese. 
Caf4 Noir. 



Mean for Snaday 

BREAKFAST 

Strawberries (in Season). Cream. 

Oatmeal, Milk. 

Grillades Pannes. Lyonnaise Potatoes. 

French Rolls. 

Caf6 au Lait. 

DINNER 

Corn Soup (In Season). 

Radishes. Cress. Home-Made Pickles. 

Bouillabaisse. New Potatoes, Buttered. 

Fricasseed Chicken with Dumplings. 

or Poulet au Riz. 

Green Peas. Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Lettuce Salad. French Dressing. 

Lemon Sherbert. Cake. 

Caf6 Noir. 



SUPPER 

Boiled Ham. Potato Salad. 

Blackberry Jam. Cake. 

Tea. 



How to Vary Theme Economleal Dally 

Bfeana 

These Menus may be varied w^ith 
Gumbo aux Herbes, Gumbo Choux. 
Shrimp Gumbo, Bisque d'fccrevlsses, all 
manner of Purees, when vegetables are 
in the height of the season: all kinds of 
sweet compotes and jellies and Jams, 
etc.; fried bananas; all manner of sweet 
entremets, with the exception of the 
expensive omelets and fritters, and 
nearly all kinds of puddings and pies 
and desserts. 



INDEX 



note: — ^As a rule* the portions given in each recipe in this Cook Book are 
8i:&fflcient for six persons. In usingr these recipes it is assumed that 'the cook 
^^vUl increase or reduce the quantity of each ingredient in proportion to the 
number of persons to be served. 

Note general classifications, such as Fish, Vegetables, Bread, etc. 



Page 

66 

A la Mode 69 

Bouilll 21 

Corned 78 

Daube, Cold, k la Creole 69 

Marine 70 

FILET 67 

LArded 67 

Larded with Mushrooms 67 

Larded with Truffles 67 

Smothered with Mushrooms or 

Truffles 68 

With Tomatoes 68 

With Stuffed Tomatoes 69 

FRIED MEAT 70 

No. 2 70 

GRILLADES 71 

Breaded 71 

With Gravy 71 

HASH 72 

Dry or Baked 73 

Corned Beef 73 

On Toast 73 

Plain 72 

KIDNEYS 74 

Broiled 74 

Stewed 74 

LEFT-OVER MEAT 72 

LIVER 74 

Broiled 74 

Fried k la Lyonnalse 74 

MEAT BALLS 71 

Plain '. 71 

No. 2 71 

Mirontons 21 

OX TAILS 74 

A la Bourgreoise 74 

Breaded 73 

Potted 72 

Roasted 66 

Souffle 72 

STEAK 67 

Broiled 67 

Pie 72 

Smothered 68 

Smothered in Onions 68 

TONGTTE 75 

Jellied 75 

Smothered 75 



Page 

BIRDS 127 

Chaud-Froid 137 

Broiling 127 

Roasting 127 

GRASSETS 135 

Broiled or Roasted 135 

PAPABOTTES 128 

A la Cr6olo 128 

Broiled 128 

Roasted 128 

PARTRIDGES 129 

A la Financidre 130 

And Cabbage 131 

Breasts of, Truffle Sauce 132 

Broiled 129 

Broiled, with Sour Orange 

Sauce 180 

Chartreuse of 181 

Creole Style 130 

Hunters' Style 130 

Roast 129 

Roast, with Bread Sauce. . . .129 

POULES d'EAU 136 

Plain 136 

Stewed 136 

With Turnips 136 

QUAIL 132 

Braised, Celery Sauce 134 

Broiled on Toast 183 

Broiled with Bacon 133 

Roasted 132 

Roasted, No. 2 133 

Roasted in Grape Leaves. .. .133 

Smothered 134 

Smothered. & la Financi^re. . 134 

REED BIRDS 135 

Broiled or Roasted 135 

SNIPE 135 

Broiled, on Toast 135 

Roasted, on Toast 135 

WOODCOCK 134 

Broiled, on Toast 134 

Roasted, on Toast 134 

BREADS, CIUCOIiE 342 

BAKED BREADS 342 

Baker's 343 

Buttermilk 845 

French 848 



Be sure to read note at head of Index 



375 



376 



THE PICAYI'NE €R£OIiE GOOK BOOK 



Breads, Creol€>— Continued Pagre 

French Loaves 343 

Home-Made 344 

Making: and Baking Bread. . .342 

Milk 344 

Pan 343 

Rice 345 

Rye 344 

Short Cake 350 

Sweet Potato 345 

Twist Loaves 344 

BISCUITS 348 

Beaten 348 

Cracknels 359 

Plain 348 

Soda and Milk 349 

Soda Crackers 350 

Stewed 349 

Sweet Potato 349 

Tea 349 

Wafers 350 

CORN BREADS 350 

Ash Cake 352 

Corn Cakes, Fried 352 

Dodgers 352 

Egg 351 

Hoe-Cake 352 

Johnny Cake 353 

Nonpareil 351 

Plain 350 

Pone 351 

Risen . .- 351 

Steamed 351 

Crackling, Bread 353 

GRIDDLE CAKES 358 

Batter 357 

Bread 358 

Buckwheat 357 

Cornmeal 358 

Flannel 358 

French 359 

Green Corn 359 

Hominy 359 

Plain 358 

Rice 359 

Ml^FFINS 353 

Bread 354 

Cornmeal 354 

Cream 354 

Crumpets 355 

Egg 354 

Gems 355 

Gems. Corn 355 

Homimy 354 

Plain 353 

Puffs 359 

Queen 354 

Quick 355 

Rice 355 

Sally Lunn 355 

ROLLS 345 

Baba 347 

Brioche 347 

Brioche, Fruit 34 8 

Bullfrogs 348 

Cheese Cakes 348 

French 345 

Plain 345 



liusks 


Page 
346 


Tea 


346 


TOASTS 

Cream 


346 

346 


Lost Bread 

Plain 

Spanish 

WAFFLES 

Cornmeal 

Plain 


346 

346 

347 

356 

356 

356 


Potato 


356 


Rice 


357 


Risen 


357 


Sweet Potato 


357 


YEAST. HOMEMADE.. 


360 



CAKES 



270 



Almond 273 

Angel 273 

Angel's Food' 273 

Archangel 273 

Banana Meringue 274 

Black 274 

Bride's 274 

Buttermilk 274 

Caramel 276 

Chocolate, Creole Style 2 75 

Chocolate Loaf 274 

Citron 275 

Clove 275 

Cocoanut Loaf 275 

Coffee 275 

Cup 276 

Delicate 276 

Dried Fruit 277 

Fig 277 

French, Creole 279 

Fruit 277 

Fruit, Plain 278 

Fruit, Gingerbread 27? 

General Directions for 270 

Gingerbread 278 

Gingerbread (Stage Planks).. 278 

Ginger Cake 27 » 

Gold 279 

Honey .• 279 

Imperial 279 

Indian Pound 280 

Lady 280 

Lost Cake 281 

Lunch 280 

Madame John's 280 

Marble 280 

Marble Chocolate 281 

Motley 281 

Molasses 281 

Molasses, Plain 281 

Nut 282 

One, Two, Three, Four Cup.. 276 

Orange 282 

Pearl 282 

Picayune 273 

Premium 282 

Pound 282 

Pound, No. 2 283 

Pound, White 28S 

Plum 283 



Be sure to read note at head of index 



PHE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



377 



Crakes — Continued Page 

Raisin 284 

Silver 279 

Spanish 284 

Spice 284 

Spiced Molasses 284 

Sponge 284 

Sponge, Cream 285 

Sponge, Quick 285 

Sponge, White 285 

Tutti-Frutti 285 

Twelfth Night (King's Cake). 285 

White Cream 285 

White Mountain 285 

Without Eggs 276 

DESSERT CAKES, SMALL 289 

Baking 289 

BOUCHfiES 289 

Iced 289 

With Peaches 290 

With Pineapple 290 

With Oranges 290 

COOKIES 297 

Creole ., 297 

Lemon 297 

• Molasses 297 

Tea 296 

DROPS 297 

Anise 297 

Spice 297 

ECLAIRS 295 

Cholocate 295 

Pineapple 297 

FINGERS 295 

Cocoanut 295 

Lady 296 

GINGER 296 

Nuts 296 

Snaps 296 

LAYER > 286 

Almond 286 

Bajiana 287 

Chocolate 287 

(^ocoanut 287 

Cream 287 

Fig 287 

Fresh Fruits 288 

General Directions for 286 

Jelly 287 

Lemon 287 

Orange 288 

Pecan 288 

Pineapple 288 

Rainbow 288 

Raisin 288 

MACAROONS 290 

Almond 290 

Chocolate 290 

Creole 291 

Iced - 291 

Pistachio 291 

Spanish 291 

MARCHPANE 291 

Plain 291 

Souffle 292 

Strawberry 292 

MERINGUES 298 

Biscuits with Preserves 299 



Page 

Cream-Iced 298 

Cream-Iced with Preserves. . .299 

Creole 298 

Marbled Glac^es 299 

MISCELI^NEOITS 295 

Cup 295 

Jelly 295 

Jumbles 297 

Madeleines 297 

Popovers 297 

Queen 296 

PANCAKES 235 

French 236 

French, with Jelly 236 

Plain 235 

SOUFFLfiS 292 

Almond 292 

Almond and Peanut 293 

Aniseed 294 

Cinnamon 293 

Citron 293 

Creole 293 

Filbert 293 

Lemon 293 

Orange 293 

Pistachio 292 

Rose » 292 

Vanilla 294 

WAFERS 294 

Creole 294 

French 294 

Ginger 294 

Spanish 294 

CANAPfiS 180 

Anchovy 180 

Anchovy, with Hard-Bolled 

Eggs 180 

Anchovy, Creole Style 180 

Anchovy, Cracker 181 

Anchovy, with Gruyftre CheeselSO 

Cannelons 184 

Caviar 181 

Cheese 182 

Chicken ^ 182 

Chicken Livers 182 

Codfish 182 

Creole 182 

Crab 181 

Fish 183 

Ham 183 

Hunters' Style 182 

Indian 183 

Loul^ana 184 

Olive 183 

Oyster 183 

Potted Ham 183 

Potted Tongue 183 

Sardine 184 

Spanish 184 

Swiss 181 

CANDIES, CREOIiE 

CARAMELS 328 

Chestnut 329 

Chocolate 328 

Orange 329 

Plain 328 



Be sure to read note at head of index 



378 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIjE CXX)K: JSOOK 



Candles, Creole— -Continued Page 

COLORINGS FOR 335 

Burnt Sue:ar 335 

Carmine 335 

Cochineal 335 

Green 385 

Orange 335 

Yellow 335 

CREAMS 332 

Bonbons 332 

Chocolate 332 

Orange 333 

Peanuts 333 

CRYSTALLIZED 331 

Oranges 331 

Orange Blossoms 331 

Rose Petals 332 

Violets 332 

Watermelon 332 

DIRECTIONS FOR VSING 

SUGAR 333 

Blow, the 334 

Boiling 333 

Caramel 334 

Clarify, to 334 

Crack, the 334 

Feather, the 334 

Hard Ball, the 334 

Pearl, the 334 

Soft Ball, the 334 

Thread, large 334 

Thread, small 334 

LOZENGKS 333 

(^ough 333 

Plain 333 

MISCELLANEOUS 831 

Comflts 331 

Lemon Sugar 336 

Sugar Plums 331 

Vanilla Sugar 336 

MOLASSES *. 327 

Corn 328 

Paste 328 

Pop Corn 328 

Pulled 327 

NOUGAT 330 

Plain 330 

Parisian 331 

PASTILLES 329 

Candy Drops 329 

Cream 329 

Fruit 330 

Ginger 330 

Marshmallow Drops 330 

Orange 329 

Peppermint Drops 830 

Rose 330 

PRALINES 326 

Almond •■ 327 

Cream 327 

Peanut 327 

Peanuts, Sugared 327 

Pecan 327 

Pink 326 

White 326 

CANNING AND PICKLING 336 

CANNING 336 

Corn 336 



Green Peas . . 

Methods of ... 

Mushrooms 

Tomatoes 

PICKLING 

Cauliflower 

Chow-Chow . . . . 

Fruits 

Green Peppers . 
Green Tomatoes 
Mangoes 



. .337 



336 



337 

33S 

338 

340 

338 

339 

339 

Methods of 337 

Mixed 338 

Onions 339 

Sour 337 

String Beans 340 

Sweet 337 

Watermelon Rind 340 

VINEGARS, PICKLED 340 

Chervil 34 O 

Creole Catsup 341 

Pepper 340 

Spiced 341 

Tabasco 341 

Tarragon 341 

CEREALS 170 

Barley 174 

Buckwheat 174 

Torn 172 

Cornmeal Mush 173 

FARINA 171 

Plain 171 

Gruel 171 

GRITS 172 

Boiled 172 

Baked 172 

HOMINY 17S 

Boiled 173 

Croquettes 173 

Fried 17S 

Lye, or Samp 173 

Milk Porridge 174 

OATS 171 

Boiled 171 

Flakes 172 

Steamed 171 

RYE 171 

Rye Mush 171 

WHEAT 170 

Cracked 171 

Kinds of 170 

CHEESE 178 

Biscuits 179 

Cream 179 

Fondu 179 

Ramekins 178 

Souffle 178 

Straws 178 

Toasted 178 

Toasts 179 

COFFEE 1 

Best Ingredlentfl For 1 

Caf4 au Lait 2 

Caf6 Nolr 1 

Oeole Rule for 2 

How to Make 1 



Be sure to read note at head of index 



XHE PICAYUITE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



S79 



Pagre 



]>ESS£RTS 



237 



COMPOTES 237 

Apple 237 

Apple, Stuffed 237 

Apricot .'. 237 

Banana 237 

Banana Cansii 238 

Blackberrien 238 

CherHes 238 

Cocoanut 238 

Cranberries 238 

CJurrants 239 

Damsons 239 

Dried Fruits 239 

Figs 239 

Figs, Creole Style 289 

Japan Plums 239 

Lemons 239 

Malaga Qrapes 239 

Oranges 239 

Oranges. Whole 240 

Oranges, Creole Style 240 

Peaches 240 

Plums 240 

Pears 240 

Pineapple 240 

Plantain, (Yeole Style 240 

Plantain, Old Style 241 

Pomegranates 241 

Prunes 241 

Raspberries 241 

Strawberries 241 

CREAMS . .262 

Almond, Sweet 264 

Burnt 264 

Cairs Foot Jelly, or Gelatine. 262 

Chestnut 265 

(Chocolate 264 

Coffee 264 

Foamy 264 

General Directions for Making 262 

Light 264 

Macaroon 265 

Peanut 265 

Snow 265 

Whipped 263 

White Coffee 264 

Whipped, with Coffee 264 

Whipped, with Peaches or 

Cherries 263 

Whipped, with Strawberries, 
Raspberries or Blackber- 
ries 263 

Whipped, with Vanilla, etc. ..263 

CREAMS, BAVARIAN 266 

Apricot 266 

Chocolate 267 

Coffee 26« 

Orange 267 

Plain 265 

Pineapple 266 

Raspberry 266 

Spanish 267 

Strawberry 266 

Velvet 267 

CUSTARDS 259 

Almond 259 



Page 

Boiled 258 

Cup 259 

Floating Island 260 

Macaroon 269 

Rice 259 

Souffle 259 

Tapioca 259 

OTHER DESSERTS 268 

Ambrosia 262 

Ambrosia, Pineapple and 

Orange 262 

Apple Sago 261 

Apple Sponge 261 

Blanc Mange 258 

Blanc Mange, Cornstarch. . . .268 
Blanc Mange, Neapolitan. . . .258 

Blanc Mange, Velvet 258 

Charlotte Russe 260 

Charlotte Rus^e, Pailslan. . . .260 

Creole Summer Pudding 261 

Minute Cake 262 

Snow, Apple 260 

Snow, Cream 261 

Snow, Orange 260 

Snow, Pineapple 260 

Strawberry Shortcake 262 

Strawber ry Spon ge 261 

DOMESTIC BEn^ERAGKS 318 

Chocolate 818 

Cocoa 318 

Tea 318 

KGGS 158 

A la Poulette 160 

Beauregard 160 

Boiled 168 

Creole Omelet 160 

Fried 159 

Ham Omelet 161 

Kidney Omelet 161 

Mushroom Omelet 161 

Onion Omelet 161 

Omelet Souffle 161 

Parsley Omelet 161 

Plain Omelet 160 

Poached 168 

Scrambled 1 &» 

Scrambled, with Asparagus 

Tips 160 

Scrambled, with Ham 159 

Scrambled, with Preserves. .. 159 

Shirred 160 

Truffle Omelet 161 

With Cheese 159 

With Ham 159 

FISH 29 

Balls 43 

Canned 62 

Chowder 42 

Cooking. Methods of 30 

Baking 80 

Boiling 30 

Broiling 30 

Frying 31 

Stewing 31 

R4sum6 81 

Salt 62 



Be sure to read note at head of Index 



380 



TH£ PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



Fish — Coatinued Pagre 

Selection of 29 

Shell 47 

Soups 11 

ANCHOVIES 65 

Canapes 65 

Salad 65 

BLUEFISH 40 

Broiled 40 

CODFISH 62 

Bacalao 64 

Balls 63 

Boiled 63 

Creamed 63 

Fried 63 

Salted 62 

Stewed 63 



CRABS 

HARDSHELL 

Boiled 

Croquettes , 

Deviled 

Fried 

How to Eat 

Pie of 

Salad 

Salad No. 2 

Scalloped 

Stewed 

Stuffed 

Stuffed No. 2 

SOFTSHELL 

Broiled 

Fried 

CRAWFISH 

Baked k la (^r^ole 

Bisque 

Boiled 

Bush 

CROAKERS 

Fried 



EELS, LOUISIANA 

A la Maltre d'HAtel . . . 

A la Poulette 

Broiled 

Fried 

Stewed, en Matalotte 
FLOUNDERS 

Baked 

A la Nouvelle Orleans 

A la Normande 

A rOrly 

A la Tartare 

FROGS 

A la Poulette 

Broiled 

Creole Style 

Fried 

Saut4, k la Creole 

Stewed 

GROUPER 

Baked 

HERRING 

MACKEREL. SALT 

Boiled 

Broiled 



67 
57 
57 
59 
59 
58 
57 
60 
60 
60 
59 
68 
58 
59 
60 
61 
60 
61 
61 
13 
61 
62 
42 
42 

4t 

43 
44 

44 
43 
43 
38 
39 
39 
38 
38 
38 
45 
45 
46 
45 
46 
46 
46 
37 
37 
65 
64 
64 
64 



Page 

OYSTERS 47 

A la Poulette 51 

Au Parmesan 52 

And Bacon 49 

Baked 51 

Balls 53 

Brochette 49 

Broiled 48 

Broiled in Shells 49 

Broiled on Toast 48 

Broiled, with Sauce 48 

Coddled 50 

Croquettes 53 

Croquettes k la Creole 53 

Curried 51 

Deviled 50 

Dressing 138 

Fried 49 

Fried k la Creole 49 

Fritters ' 52 

Loaf 55 

Minced 51 

Pan Roast 52 

Patties 54 

Pickled . 55 

Pie 54 

Raw, in Block of Ice 4.8 

Raw, on Half-Shell 48 

Roasted 52 

Salad 54 

Sautfi 50 

Scalloped 50 

Soup 14 

Steamed 53 

Stewed 50 

Stuffing, for Poultry. Fish, etc. 138 

PERCH 42 

Boiled 42 

Broiled 42 

POMPANO 40 

A la Mftitre d'Hoiel 40 

REDFISH 34 

Baked 37 

Boiled 35 

Bouillabaisse 34 

Courtbouillon, ft la O^ole. ... 34 

Courtboulllon, Spanish 34 

With Tomato Sauce 37 

RED SNAPPER 34 

Baked 36 

Baked, ft la Chambord 36 

Baked, Simple. Everyday 

Recipe 36 

Boiled 35 

Bouillabaisse 34 

Courtbouillon. ft la Creole. ... 34 

Courtboulllon. Spanish 34 

With Tomato Sauce 37 

ROE 45 

SACALAIT 42 

SALMON 65 

Mayonnaise of 65 

Salad 65 

SHEEPSHEAD 82 

A la Creole 38 

Baked 82 

Baked, ft la Creole SS 



! 



Bo sure to read note at head of Index 



XHE PICAYUNE CREX>IjE: COOK BOOK 



381 



FIsli — Continued Page 

Boiled 82 

SHRIMPS 55 

Baked 56 

Boiled 55 

Bush 57 

Pried 56 

Gumbo 28 

Pie 56 

Salad 57 

Stewed 56 

With Tomato Catsup 56 

SPANISH MACKEREL 40 

Broiled 40 

STINGAREE 44 

Au Beurre Noir 44 

Pried 44 

With Caper Sauce 44 

STINGARETTES 45 

TERRAPIN 22 

TROUT 40 

Cutlets of 41 

Green, Boiled 40 

Green, Broiled .* 41 

Speckled 41 

Speckled, Fried 41 

TURTLE 62 

Green, Steaks of 62 

Green, Stewed 62 

Green, Soup . . . '. 11 

FOODS, VAIUETI£S OF 364 

FORCEMEAT 140 

Chicken 140 

Crab 141 

Creole 140 

Fish 141 

Game 140 

Godiveau 140 

Sausage 140 

FRUITS 224 

Melon 224 

Muskmelon 224 

Watermelon 224 

FRUITS, COOKED, also see 

Compotes 234 

Apples, Baked 234 

Apples. Charlotte 234 

Apples, Fried 234 

Apples, Stewed 233 

Bananas, Fried 235 

Blackberry Charlotte 234 

Cherry Charlotte -. 234 

Currant Charlotte 234 

Raspberry Charlotte 234 

Fruit Toasts, with Cherries, 
Apricots or Raspberries. . . .235 

Orange Salad 235 

Peaches, Stewed 235 

FRUIT DRINKS, Iced 314 

Cherry Water 314 

Directions for 314 

Fruit Granits 315 

Lemonade 314 

Lemonade (Fruit) 315 

Lemonade (Hot) 315 

Milk of Almonds 815 



Page 

Orangeade 315 

Orange Granit 816 

Raspberry Granit 316 

Strawberry Granit 316 

Strawberry Water 315 

FRUrr SYRLTS 310 

Directions for Making 310 

Apricot 311 

Banana 311 

Blackberry 311 

Cherry 311 

Cranberry 311 

c:Jurrant 311 

Currant, with Raspberries. ... 311 

Lemon 311 

Lime 312 

Orange 312 

Orgeat 312 

Peach 312 

Pineapple 312 

Plum 812 

Raspberry 313 

Strawberry 312 

Vanilla 313 

FRUIT WINES, ETC 316 

Blackberry 316 

Currant 316 

Elderberry 316 

Ginger Beer 317 

Louisiana Orange 317 

Muscadine 817 

Sassafras 316 

Scuppernong 317 

Spruce 317 

Strawberry 817 



GAME 



117 



CHAUD— FROID OF 137 

PIE 136 

ducks! wild' .* .' . .' . .* ." ." ." '.'.'.'.'.'. 120 

A la Bourgeolse 122 

Canvasback 120 

Canvasback, Broiled 121 

Canvasback, Roasted 120 

Cold 128 

Hunters* Style 121 

Mallard 120 

Stewed 121 

Stewed, French Marshall Style 122 

Stewed, Peasant Style 122 

Stewed, with Mushrooms . . . .121 

Stewed, with Turnips 122 

With Olives 122 

Teal 123 

Teal, & la Blgarade 123 

Teal, Broiled 123 

Teal, Roasted 123 

HARE X24 

Creole Style 125 

Pllet of. Sauce Po'vrade 126 

Roasted and Stuffed 125 

Stewed 126 

Stewed with Onions 126 

RABBIT 124 

En Matelote 124 



Be sore to read note at head of index 



882 



THE PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



Ckune-^Contlnued 



Pa^ 



Hunters' Style 124 

Stewed 124 

SQUIRREL 126 

En Matelote 126 

Hunters' Style 126 

Stewed 126 

VENISON 117 

Cutlets of. Broiled 118 

Hash 120 

Hunters' Style 119 

In Chafing: Dish 119 

Roast Haunch of 117 

Saddle of. Currant Jelly Sauce 118 

Steaks, & la Poivrade 118 

Stewed, It la Creole 118 

Stewed, French Style 119 

WILD TURKEY 120 

GUMBOS, CREOLE 25 

Cabbage 28 

Crab 27 

F116 25 

Green, or Herb 28 

Okra 26 

Oyster 27 

Shrimp 28 

Shrimp, F116 27 

Squirrel or Rabbit 26 

Turkey 26 

HERBS 225 

ICE CREAMS, BISCUITS, SHER- 
BETS 301 

Biscuits Glac4s 806 

Biscuits Glac48, Creole Style. 306 

Bombe Glac6 307 

FROZEN CREAMS 301 

Apricot 302 

Banana 302 

Chocolate 302 

Chocolate, with Eggs 302 

Coftee 302 

How to Make, Freeze and 

Mold 301 

King of the Carnival 302 

Lemon 303 

Mandarin 303 

Neapolitan 303 

Nectarine 303 

Nougrat 303 

Orange 304 

Orange Flower 304 

Peach 304 

Pineapple 304 

Pineapple Mousse 304 

Pistachio 304 

Raspberry 306 

Rice 305 

Rose 305 

Strawberry 305 

Tutti-Frutti 305 

Tutti-Frutti, Creole 306 

Vanilla 306 

Variegated 306 

FROZEN FRUITS 309 

Apricots 309 



Bananas S09 

Cherries 309 

How to Freeze 309 

Macedoine of 310 

Oranges 309 

Peaches 309 

Pineapple 309 

Strawberries 809 

SHERBETTS 307 

Apple 307 

Apricot 307 

Banana 307 

Cherry 807 

Currant 867 

Grape 307 

Lemon 307 

Orange 308 

Peach 308 

Pineapple 308 

Pomegranate 308 

Raspberry 308 

Strawberry 308 

WATER ICES 808 

ICINGS FOR CAKES 299 

Almond 299 

Chocolate 300 

Colored 300 

Cream 800 

Frosting 800 

Orange or Lemon 300 

Orange Transparent 300 

Orgeat Paste 300 

Plain 299 

Royal 800 

Transparent 301 

Water 300 

JELLIES, MARMALADES, PRE- 
SERVES 319 

JAMS AND JELLIES 319 

Apple 319 

Apricot 319 

Blackberry 320 

Blue Plum and Damson 320 

Calf's Foot 320 

Cherry. Jam 322 

Cherry, Jelly 320 

Currant 320 

Currant and Raspberry 320 

Directions for Making 319 

Grape 323 

Lemon 320 

Orange 320 

Orange, Creole Style 321 

Orange Flower and Rose 323 

Peach 321 

Pear 321 

Pineapple 321 

Quince 321 

Raspberry, Jam 328 

Raspberry Jelly 321 

Strawberry, Jam 328 

Strawberry Jelly 321 

Violet 328 

MARMALADES 822 

Apple 322 



Be sure to read note at head of Index 



'THE PICAYUNE CREOLii: COOK BOOK 



388 



J^lies, Etc. — Continued Pagre 

Directions for Makinsr ^22 

Oransre 322 

Peach 828 

Pear 822 

Pineapple 323 

Quince 823 

PRESERVES 828 

Directions for Making 823 

Fi«r 324 

Fruit 825 

Lemon • • • • 824 

Orangre 825 

Orangres, Small, Whole 825 

Peach 824 

Pineapple 825 

Quince 825 

Watermelon Rind .826 

liAAIB 92 

Brains 94 

Brains & la R6moulade 94 

Breast of, Smothered 98 

Chops, Broiled 98 

En Blanquette 94 

Epifirram of 94 

Feet 95 

Feet & la Bourgeoise 95 

Feet, White Sauce 95 

Filet of, & la Bechamel 98 

Filet of. Roasted and Larded. 93 

Kidneys of. Broiled 95 

Minced 94 

Roast, & la B4arnaise 92 

Roast, with Mint Sauce 92 

Tonirues, Stewed 95 

Tongues, with Tomato Sauce. 95 

MACARONI AND SPAGHETTI. . .176 

Au Qratln 176 

Balls 177 

Boiled 175 

Boiled, Italian Style 175 

Creole Style 176 

Milanaise 176 

Neapolitan 176 

Timbale of 177 

With Daube 177 

With Tomato Sauce 175 

MENUS 869 

MUTTON 88 

Chops, Brewer's Style 90 

Chops, Broiled 90 

Cutlets 90 

Feet & la Lyonnaise 91 

Feet & la Poulette 91 

Feet, Stuffed 91 

Hash 90 

Leg of. Boiled with Caper 

Sauce 89 

Leg of, Roast 89 

Loin of, Roast 89 

Observations on 88 

Saddle of 89 

Sheep Brains 92 

Sheep Brains, Brown Sauce.. 92 

Sheep Kidneys 92 

Sheep Tongues, Smothered. . . 91 



Page 

Shoulder of. Smothered with 

Turnips 90 

Stew 89 

Stew, with Turnips 89 

NUTS 841 

Almonds, Salted 841 

Peanuts, Salted 842 

PASTRY AND PIES 242 

PASTRY 242 

Foundation 248 

Pie .248 

Plain 243 

Puff 242 

PIES 244 

Apple 244 

Apple Meringue 244 

Apple Tarts 244 

Banana 246 

Banana Meringue 245 

Blackberry 24G 

Cherry 24G 

Chocolate Cream 246 

Cocoanut 245 

Cranberry 24G 

Cream 245 

Creole Cocoanut 245 

Currant 246 

Custard 246 

Franglpanni 246 

Gooseberry 246 

Greengage 246 

Huckleberry 246 

Lemon 247 

Lemon Meringue 247 

Mince 247 

Mince, Lenten 248 

Mincemeat, Plain 248 

Molasses 248 

Orange 248 

Oyster Patties 250 

Peach 248 

Peach, Meringue 248 

Pear 249 

Pineapple 249 

Plantain 249 

Plantain, Meringue 249 

Pumpkin 249 

Raspberry 249 

Strawberry 249 

Sweet Potato Custard 250 

Vol-au-Vent 250 

PIGEONS 115 

Broiled 115 

Broiled, k la Crapaudine 115 

Compote of 116 

Pie 117 

Squab, Roasted 115 

Squab, with Green Peas 116 

With Crawfish 116 

PORK 96 

Choosing 96 

Chops 97 

Pickled 99 



Be sure to read note at head of Index 



384 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



Poric — ContinucMl Page 

Roast 96 

Roast, Loin of d 6 

Salt Meat 99 

Spare Ribs of 97 

Tenderloin 97 

BACON 100 

Boiled 100 

Fried 100 

HAM 99 

Boiled 99 

Broiled 100 

Broiled, with Cucumber Gar- 
nish 100 

Croquettes 100 

Fried 99 

Souffle 100 

HOGSHEAD OHKESE 98 

PIG. ROASTED AND 

STl^FFED 96 

PIGSFEET 97 

Piquant Sauce 98 

Robert Sauce....; 97 

St Hubert Style 98 

Stuffed, & la P^rigueux 98 

Tartar Sauce 98 

Tomato Sauce 98 

SAUSAGE 100 

Boudins 102 

Boudins Blancs 102 

Creole 100 

Chaurlce 101 

(^haurice, with Creole Sauce. .101 
Chaurice, with Pur^e of 

Potatoes 101 

Chitterlings 102 

Saucisses 101 

Saucissions 101 

POULTRY 103 

CAPON 112 

CHICKEN 105 

A la Reine 110 

A la Tartare 106 

Balls, Queen Style Ill 

Boiled 106 

Boned Ill 

Boulettes 112 

Broiled 105 

Casserole of 110 

Creamed .'.106 

Croquettes Ill 

Deviled 106 

Fried 109 

Fried with Cream Sauce 110 

Livers 112 

Patties, Queen Style Ill 

Pie Ill 

Roasted 1 1 

Salad, with Mayonnaise 

Sauce 112 

A la Creole 107 

A la Jardiniere 108 

With Green Peas 108 

Smothered 108 

Smothered with Tomatoes. .. 109 
Souffle 110 



Page 

Stewed, with Brown Sauce... 106 
Stewed, with White Sauce... 107 
Breasts of, Louisiana Style. . .109 

Breasts of, Queen Style 109 

With Dumplings 108 

With Mushrooms 107 

With Rice 108 

With Truffles 108 

GOOSE 112 

A la Chipolata 113 

Daube lis 

Roast 112 

LIVERS lis 

I.«oaf of 114 

Loaf. Jellied 114 

Patties of 113 

Stewed 114 

Gl^INEA FOWT 112 

TITRKEY 103 

Boned i04 

En Daube 104 

With (^he.stnutH or Oysters. . .104 

Roasted 103 

Roast, with Mushrooms 104 

Roast, with Truffles 103 

Pl'DDINGS 251 

Apple 263 

Apple Dumplings 252 

Apple Meringue 253 

Baked 268 

Baked Dumplings 252 

Banana 25» 

Birds' Nest 254 

Blackberry Holl 251 

Boiled Dumplings 251 

Bread 254 

Brown Betty 254 

Cake or Bread 254 

Chocolate 25« 

<^ocoanut 255 

(^ottage 254 

Cream 255 

Creole Summer 261 

Fig 255 

Fig, Creole 255 

Fruit Batter 256 

Indian 255 

Molasses 255 

Nesselrode 255 

Orange 256 

Peach Batter 256 

Plum 252 

Plum, Old-Fashloned 258 

Pineapple 256 

Queen 257 

Raspberry 256 

Rice Dumplings 252 

Roly-Poly 252 

Sago 267 

Snow 257 

Strawberry 267 

Sweet Potato 257 

Tapioca 257 

Tipsy Squire 258 



Be sure to read note at head of Index 



rrH£ PICAYUNE CREOIiE COOK BOOK 



385 



I*addiiie;»— Continnod Pagre 

PUDDING SAUCES 268 

Apple 268 

Apricot 268 

Caramel 268 

Oeam 268 

Cream of Butter 268 

Cream of Vanilla 268 ' 

Custard 269 

Foaming 269 

Fruit 269 

Golden 269 

Hard 268 

Hard No. 2 269 

Hard Sauce, Creole Style 269 

Lemon 269 

Orange 269 

Silvery 270 

Strawberry 270 

Vanilla 270 

Velvet 270 

RELISHES 225 

Anchovies in Oil 226 

Cold 225 

Coquilles of Chicken, Creole 

Style 226 

Creole Timbales 226 

Cromesquies, with Truffles... 226 

Hot 225 

Lamb Sweetbreads in Cases.. 2 27 

Lyonnaise Sausage 229 

Macaroni Croquettes 227 

Pickled Tunny 229 

Queen of the Carnival 

Croustades 227 

Reed Bird Patties '. . 228 

Salpicon, k la Monglas. ...... 228 

Salpicon, Creole 228 

Salpicon, Financier Style.... 22 8 

Salpicon, Hunters' Style 228 

Salpicon, I^ouisiana 228 

Salpicon, Royal 227 

Salted Almonds 341 

Salted Peanuts 342 

Sardines in Oil 226 

Tamales 229 



RICE 



162 



Boiled 162 

Boiled, Italian Style 164 

Border of 164 

Bread 166 

Calas 165 

Chicken with Rice 164 

Cream Pudding 168 

Croquettes of, with Fruit.... 166 
Croquettes of, with Parsley.. 166 

Curry of Codfish 164 

Custard 167 

Custard of. Frozen 169 

Dumplings 167 

Fried 170 

Fritters 170 

Flour, Croquettes of 167 

Griddle Cakes 166 

How to Prepare for Cooking. .162 
Jambalaya, au Congri 163 



Page 

Jambalaya, Crab 168 

Jambalaya, Creole 162 

Jambalaya, Shrimp 163 

Left Over 169 

Meringue 168 

Parched 170 

Pilaff, with Chicken 164 

Pilou, French 168 

Snowballs 168 

Souffle 168 

Waffles 165 

With Apples 167 

With Compote of Oranges. .. 169 



SALADS 



152 



Anchov^r 154 

Artichoke 154 

Asparagus, Tips of 164 

Bean 164 

Beet 154 

Cauliflower 154 

Celery ,. .154 

Celery Mayonnaise 154 

Chervil 154 

Chicken 154 

. Corn 155 

Crab, Mayonnaise 154 

Crawfish 155 

Cress 156 

Cucumber 155 

Dandelion 155 

Endive 155 

Fish 155 

Lentil 156 

Lettuce 156 

Louisiana 156 

Okra 156 

Peppers, Green 155 

Peppers, Green, Spanish 

Style 155 

Potato 157 

Russian 157 

Sardine 157 

Shrimp 157 

Spanish 156 

String Bean 156 

Tomato 156 

Tomato. Green Pepper and 

Onion ^ 156 

Tomato, Iced 156 

Vegetable 157 

Watercress 157 

DRESSINGS FOR 152 

French, Creole Style 153 

French, Plain 152 

French. No. 2 152 

Mayonnaise 153 

Mustard 153 

R^moulade 153 

Vinegar « 153 

SAUCES FOR FISH, MEATS, 

POtJIiTRY, GAME, ETC... 141 

Anchovy 142 

Apple 142 

B^arnaise 142 

Bechamel 143 



sure to read note at head of index 



386 



THE PICATUNE CIUEX>IiE COOK BOOK 



Page 

Bordelaise 148 

Bordelaise, Creole Style 148 

Bread 144 

Brown 143 

Brown Butter . ^ 144 

Caper 144 

Cauliflower 144 

Celery 144 

Chambord 144 

Chestnut 144 

Chill 144 

Cranberry 145 

Crapaudlne 145 

Cream 145 

Creole 145 

Cucumber 145 

Currant Jelly 145 

Devil's 146 

Drawn Butter 145 

Egg 146 

Financier 147 

Genoese 146 

German 161 

Giblet 146 

Glaze 142 

Half-Glaze 146 

Hard-Egg Sauce 146 

Hollandaise 146 

Horseradish 146 

Hunters* Sauce 147 

Italian 147 

Jolie Fille ,.147 

Lyonnaise 147 

Mftitre d'HOtel 147 

Mayonnaise 148 

Mint 148 

Mushroom 148 

Normandy 148 

Onion 148 

Oyster 148 

Parsley 149 

Pepper 149 

Pickle 149 

Plquante 149 

Poulette 149 

Ravigote, Cold 150 

Ravigote. Hot 150 

R^moulade 150 

R6moulade, Green 150 

Robert 150 

Roux, Brown 141 

Roux. White 142 

Spanish 150 

Tartare 151 

Tomato 151 

Velvet 151 

Venison 149 

Vinaigrette 151 

White 151 

SERVING, COMBINATIONS FOR. 361 

SOUPS 3 

Boiling S 

Bouillon 4 

Bouillon, to Clarify 5 

Caramel, for Coloring 6 



Colorings for S 

Consomm6 5 

Directions ^or Making 3 

Pot-au-Feu 4 

Pot-au-Feu, k la Creole 4 

CREAM SOrPS 19 

Asparagus 19 

Barley 20 

Celery 19 

Corn 19 

Onions 19 

Rice 20 

Spinach , 19 

Tomato ' 19 

FISH SOUPS 11 

Crab 15 

Crawfish Bisque 13 

Crawfish 14 

Fish 11 

Oyster 14 

Oyster without Milk 16 

Terrapin 18 

Turtle, Green 11 

Turtle, Green, No. 2 12 

Turtle, How to Serve 13 

Turtle, Mock Eggs for 13 

LENTEN SOUPS 15 

Carrot 18 

Chestnut 21 

Cocoanut 20 

Dried Pea 17 

Fast Day Broth 15 

Green Pea 17 

Lentil 16 

Lettuce 18 

Okra 18 

Onion 18 

Potato 17 

Red Bean 16 

Rice, without Meat 20 

Sorrel 17 

Split Pea 17 

Vegetable, without Meat 16 

White Bean 16 

Winter Fast Day 16 

Winter Okra Soup 18 

MEAT SOUPS 6 

Chicken Broth 9 

Chicken, Consomm4 9 

Consomm6, Golden 9 

Consomme, with Poached 

Eggs 10 

Corn 8 

Giblet 10 

Julienne 6 

Macaroni 6 

Mock Turtle 8 

Mock Turtle, Forcemeat Balls 

for 9 

Mushroom 7 

Mutton Broth 9 

Noodle 7 

Okra 7 

Ox-Tail 7 

Pepper Pot 11 

Potage, CroQte-au-Pot 7 

Queen 10 



Be sure to read note at h€^ad of index 



THE PICAYUKE CREX>IiE COOK BOOK 



387 



Soups — Ck>nttaaed Page 

Rabbit 10 

Rice 7 

Sago 6 

Savory 8 

Squirrel 11 

Tomato Consommd 8 

Tapioca 6 

Vermicelli 6 

SOUP MEAT (le Bonffli) 21 

A la Bordelalse 22 

. A la Druxelloise 22 

A rindienne 22 

A la Lyonnaise 23 

A la Marseillaise 24 

A la Paysanne 22 

En Papilottes 23 

Croquettes 24 

Gros Sel 24 

Hash 24 

Mirontons 21 

Sausage 24 

Saut6 & la Lyonnaise 22 

Saut4 with Onions 28 

With Carrot Sauce 28 

With Egg Toast 23 

With Lettuce 23 

With Tomatoes 22 

STUFFINGS AND DRESSINGS 
FOR POUI/TRY, GAME, 
FISH, ETC 188 

Bread 1 39 

Egg 189 

Onion 139 

Oyster, for Pish or Game. . . .138 

Oyster for Poultry 138 

Stuffing for Ducks 139 

Stuffing for Geese 139 

Stuffing of Truffles 138 

SWEET ENTREMETS 229 

FRITTERS 229 

Apple 280 

Apricot 231 

Banana 231 

Batter, Creole Style 230 

Batter for Meats, etc 230 

Batter, French 280 

BHoche 231 

Cherry 231 

Corn 231 

Doughnuts 235 

Elderflower 231 

Pig 232 

Lemon 232 

Orange 232 

Peach 232 

Pear 232 

Pineapple 283 

Pineapple Cream 233 

Plain 280 

Queen 233 

Rice 233 

Sago Croquettes 233 

Strawberry 233 

Sweet Omelet 283 



SUGGE STION S TO HOUSE- 
KEEPERS 



Page 
..XI 



Comparative Table of Weights 

and Measures XI 

Cutting, Chopping, Slicing, 

Mincing XII 

Directions for Serving Meals. .361 
Explanation of French Terms XII 
Foods, Seasons when Procur- 
able 364 

Invalids, Cookery for 363 

Left-over Food, How to Util- 
ize 362 

Rules for Mixing Ingredients . XI 
Use of Broth. Bouillon and 
Consomm6 in Cookery XII 



VEAIi 



75 



Blanket of 80 

Breast or Shoulder, Stuffed 

and Roasted 76 

Cream of 79 

Croquettes of 81 

CUTLETS 77 

A la Milanaise 77 

Breaded 77 

Breaded and Broiled 77 

En Papilotte 77 

Smothered d, la Creole 77 

DAUBE 78 

A la Creole 78 

En Ratatoutille 80 

Filet of, with Mushrooms or 

Truffles 7« 

Fricandeau of 78 

Jellied 80 

Liver of, Fried with Bacon. . . 82 

Loaf 80 

Loin of, Roasted 76 

Patties 80 

Pot Pie 81 

Roast, with Fine Herbs 76 

Shoulder of, Stuffed and 

Roasted 76 

STEWED 79 

With Mushrooms 79 

With Potatoes 79 

With Olives 81 

TRIPE 87 

A la Creole 87 

A la Lyonnaise 87 

A la Mode de Caen 88 

A la Poulette 87 

Fried 88 

Stewed 87 

YOUNG VEAL 81 

Brains, Fried 82 

Brains, with Brown Butter 

Sauce 82 

Calves* Feet, k la Poulette. . . 83 

Italian Sauce 83 

Piquante Sauce 83 

Plain 83 

Sauce R4moulade 88 

Tomato Sauce 83 



Be sure to read note at head of index 



388 



THE PIC AY LIKE CREOIjE COOK BOOK 



Veal— <)oiitinued Page 

Calves* Head, k la Poulette.. 81 

A la Tortue 82 

Calves* Liver, ft la Bourgeolse 83 

Fried 82 

SWEETBREADS 83 

A la Cr^me 85 

A la Financi^re 85 

A la Poulette 85 

Broiled 86 

Cr6pinettes 86 

Definition of 83 

Fried and Breaded 86 

How to Blanch 84 

In Casseroles 86 

Larded, with Mushroom Sauce 84 

Smothered 86 

With Green Peas 84 

With Truffles 85 

VEGETABLES 184 

ARTICHOKES 184 

A la Vinaigrette 186 

Boiled, French 185 

Boiled, Jerusalem 185 

Fried 185 

Pur^e of 185 

Saute 185 

Stuffed 186 

ASPARAGUS 186 

Boiled 186 

Tips, with Green r*eas 186 

Vinaigrette Sauce 186 

BEANS ...• 188 

Bacon and Heans, Creole 

style 189 

Butter 190 

Red 188 

Red, a, la Conde 189 

Red, and Rice 189 

Red, Boiled 188 

Red, Burgun,dy Style 188 

Red, Pur^e of 189 

Crouquettes 190 

Lima 190 

Polenta 189 

String, k la Poulette 188 

Boiled with Ham 188 

Brittany Style 187 

Butter Sauce 187 



String, 
String, 
String. 
String, 



Cream Sauce 187 



String, Vinaigrette Sauce 187 

String. Panaches 188 

White 189 

White, k la Mfiitre d'HAtel. . .189 

BEETS 

Boiled 190 

Buttered 191 

Roots, a. la Bechamel 191 

Roots, a la Cr$me 191 

Sauted in Butter 191 

BORErOLE OR CURLED 

KALE 191 

BROCrOLI 191 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS 191 

A la Crftme 192 

Sauted in Butter 191 



Beef. 



CABBAGE . . . 

And Corned 

Boiled 

Creamed 

Sauted with Cream 

Stewed 

Stewed with Sausage. . . . 

Stuffed 

Stuffed, with Cream Sauce 
CAULIFLOWER 

A la Mtiitre d'Hotel 

A la Vinaigrette 

Au Gratin 

Boiled, Cream Sauce. . . . 

Boiled with Butter 

With Hot Sauce 

CARROTS 

A la Lyonnaise 

A la Mflitre d'HAtel 

Boiled, Creole Style 

Stewed 

CELERY 

A I'Espagnole 

(""reamed 

Fresh , 

Fritters 

Mayonnaise (.see salads)., 

Patties 

Salad 

CEPS 

Broiled on Toa.st 

On Toast 

Stewed 

CHERVIL 

Salad 

Vinegar 

CHESTNl'TS 

Boiled 

Stewed 

With Brown Sauce 

CHIVES 

COLLARDS 

CORN 

And Tomatoes 

Baked, (^reamed 

(^akes 

Creamed 

Fried 

Fritters 

On Cob 

Planter's Style 

Pudding 

Roasted 

Salad 

SautM with Butter 

Soup ." 

COAVPEAS 

CRESS 

CUCUMBERS 

As a Garnish 

As a Relish 

Salad 

CURRY 

DANDELIONS 

Greens, Boiled 

Salad 



Page 

..192 
..192 
..192 
. .193 
. .193 
..192 
. .193 
. .193 
. .194 
..195 
. .195 
..195 
..195 
..195 
..195 
. .195 
..196 
. .196 
..196 
. .196 
. .196 
. .197 
. .197 
. .197 
. .197 
. .197 
. .154 
. .197 
. ,197 
. .198 
. .198 
. .198 
. .198 
. .198 
. .154 
. .340 
. .198 
. .199 
..198 
. .198 
. .199 
. .199 
,.199 
..201 
. .200 
..200 
..199 
..200 
..200 
. .199 
. .199 
. .200 
. .199 
..201 
. .200 
. .200 
. .190 
. .201 
. .201 
. .201 
..201 
. .154 
. .201 
. .202 
..202 
..155 



Be sure to read note at head of index 



THE PICAYUNE CREOLE COOK BOOK 



389 



Vegetables — Continued Page 

. EGGPLANTS 202 

Fried 202 

Fritters 202 

Stewed 202 

Stuffed 202 

ENDIVES 203 

Salad 165 

With Cream Sauce 203 

With Gravy 203 

GARLIC 208 

HORSERAinSH 203 

KOHLRABI 203 

LEEKS . .204 

LENTILS 204 

Boiled 204 

Salad 156 

MANGOKS 217 

MUSHROOMS 204 

Fried 20{) 

Stewed, Spanish Style 204 

Stewed, on Toast 204 

With Cream 204 

MUSTARD 205 

OKRA 205 

Boiled 205 

Salad . .156 

Stewed 205 

ONIONS 205 

Baked 207 

Boiled 205 

Creamed 206 

Fried 206 

Glazed 207 

Smothered 206 

Stuffed 206 

PARSLEY 207 

Chopped 207 

Fried 207 

Garnishing 208 

Green 207 

PARSNIPS 208 

Balls 209 

Boiled 208 

Fried 208 

Fritters 208 

Mashed 208 

Smothered 208 

With Cream Sauce 208 

PEAS 209 

Dried 209 

Kldnev or Black -eyed 209 

Split 209 

PEAS, GREEN 209 

A la Bourgeoise 209 

Boiled 209 

Canned. How to Cook 209 

Country Style 210 

French Style 210 

Old Creole Style 210 

Puree of, Creole Style 210 

Pur6e of, k la St. Germain. . .210 

PEPPERS, HOT 217 

Cayenne 217 

Chili 217 

Pimentos 217 

Red 217 

Tabasco 217 



p>:ppers, green 


Page 
217 


Sauted 


... .21V 


stuffed 


. . . .217 


POTATOES 


. . .-.211 


A la Bourereoise 


213 


A la Diable 

A la Mftitre d'Hotel 


214 

211 


A la Parisienne 

Au Gratin 

As a Garnish 

Baked 


214 

212 

215 

215 


Balls 


214 


Boiled ' 


211 


Brabant 


213 


Chips 


213 


Creamed 


. . . .211 


Creole Style 


. . . .213 


Croquettes 

Drawn Butter 


212 

. . . .211 


Duchesse 


214 


French Fried 

Julienne 


212 

213 


Lyonnaise 


213 


Puffs 


211 


Quenelles 


214 


Salad 


157 


Snow 


. . . .212 


Souffle 


212 


Steamed 


211 


Stuffed Creole Style 


. . . .215 


Stuffed, Lenten Style.... 

Stuffed, Swiss Style 

With Butter 

PITMPKIN 


215 

215 

213 

218 


Baked 


218 


Stew^ed 


. . . .218 


RADISHES 


218 


roquette 


218 


SALSIFY 


218 


A la Poulette 

Creamed 


219 

219 


Fritters 


. . . .219 


Sauted In Butter 


219 


SAI^ERKRAT'T 


194 


SHALLOTS 


207 


SORREL 


220 


Au Graa 


220 


Au Malgro 

Puree of 


221 

220 


SPINACH 


. . . .219 


A la C^uisiniere 

A la MAitre d'Hotel 


220 

. . . .220 


Au Jus 


. . . .220 


Boiled 


. . . .219 


Creamed 


. . . .220 


With Hard Boiled Kpg. . . 
SQUASH 


220 

221 


SWEET POTATOES 

Baked 


216 

. . . .216 


Boiled 


. . . .215 


Caramel 


... .216 


Fried 


. . . .216 


Fritters 


. . . .216 


Pone 


. . . .217 


Pudding 


. . . .216 


Waffles 


216 



Be sure to read note at head of index 



S90 



THE PICATUXE dUSOIiE GOOK BOOK 



Yegetablee— Continiied Pagre 

TOMATOES 221 

Au Gratin 221 

Broiled 221 

Consomm6 of 8 

Pried 221 

Salad 166 

Scalloped 222 

Stewed 221 

StuflPed 222 

Stuffed. Creole Style 222 

TURNIPS 223 

Baked 223 

Boiled 222 

Creamed 223 

Fried in Butter 223 

Glazed 223 

Mashed 222' 

Tops, k la Creole 223 



TRUFFLES 

On Minced Toast 224 

Spanish Style 224 

VEGETABLE PEAR, (Mlrllton). .224 

VnrEGARS 313 

FRUIT VINEGARS 313 

Blackberry 313 

Oranere 813 

Pineapple 313 

Raspberry 313 

Strawberry 314 

SOUR VINEGARS. 

Chervil 340 

Creole Catsup 341 

Pepper 340 

Spiced 341 

Tabasco 341 

Tarraeron 341 



Be sure to read note at head of Index 



I 



Fill 

ilLiiii 



