w 



TX 

x\s 





Class TX ti t: 

Book .1 ^^4 



GopyrigM}^? 



COEXRIGHT DEPOSm 



H^'StO-'yto 




^^\JY^>rw^ 




HOW TO 
COOK IT 



\ By 

Rena Barry, AB., MA., 

And 

Agnes H. Mansfield, DDSc. 



Published by 

Rena Barry and Agues H. Mansfield 

Sptingfield, Mass. 

1922 



/6S-i 



-V )(^\^ 

3^^^ 



Copyright, 1922, by 

Rena Barry and 
Agnes H. Mansfield 



MAY -2 72 



A^0 



HOW TO COOK IT 



PREFACE 

That a poor cook may spoil the very best food and often- 
times the very best disposition is a well-known fact, thus the 
value of practical education in cookery. 

At the earnest request of the women in the Evening 
School of Practical Arts, teachers and friends, we have com- 
piled this collection of practical recipes and we earnestly hope 
that it may be found helpful not only to those who expressed 
a desire for the book, but to housewives and mothers in vary- 
ing their daily menus and in learning the more modern ideas 
on Table Service and the Art of Entertaining. 

The authors are dietitians and teachers of Domestic 
Science in the Springfield and Chicopee schools. They are 
graduates of Teachers' College, Columbia University, and 
Worcester Domestic Science School. 



HOW TO COOK IT 



Part I. Introduction 

FOOD 

Food is anything taken into the body to build or repair 
tissue or to produce heat and energy. 

Foods are classified as : 

1. Protein or muscle building food. 

Example — Eggs, Meat, Fish, Milk, Cheese. 

2. Carbohydrate or energy giving food. 

Example — Sugar, starchy foods — Potatoes, Beans, 
Cereals. 

3. Fat or energy producing food. 

Example — Butter, Olive-oil, Lard. 

4. Mineral Matter or tissue building food. 

Example — Fresh Vegetables, Fruits, Meat, Milk 
and Eggs. 

5. Water, a carrier of food and waste. 

Reasons for Cooking: 

1. To make it more palatable. 

2. To make it more attractive. 

3. To make it more digestible. 

4. To kill harmful germs. ] 



6 HOWTOCOOKIT 

Ways of Cooking: 

1. Broiling is cooking directly over a fire. 

2. Baking is cooking in the dry heat of an oven. 

3. Roasting originally meant cooking before an open 
fire, but in present usage it is cooking in an oven. 

4. Boiling is cooking in boiling water. 

5. Parboiling is partly cooking in boiling water. 

6. Stewing or simmering is cooking in water below the 
boiling point. 

7. Steaming is cooking over boiling water in a steamer 
or double boiler. 

8. Frying is cooking in hot fat, deep enough to cover the 
article to be cooked. 

9. Sauteing is cooking in a small quantity of hot fat. 

10. Braising is cooking in a covered pan in the oven. 

11. Deep fat frying is cooking in a great quantity of fat. 



METHODS 

Ways of Combining Ingredients: 

To stir — mix with circular motion until materials are 
blended. 

To beat — turn mixture over and over. 

To cut and fold — this term is used for beaten white of egg, 
and means to put the egg into the mixture and with a spoon 
fold it into the other ingredients, without beating the air out 
of it. 



HOW TO COOK IT 7 

RULES FOR USE OF RECIPES 

Directions for Measuring: 

1. Sift flour before measuring. 

2. Use level measurements. 

3. Pack butter, lard, etc., in cups when measuring by 
Ya or y2 cups full. 

4. Use a standard measuring cup. 



Common Kitchen Measures. 

> 1 tablespoon 



3 teaspoons 
3^ fluid ounce 



16 tb. 

2 gills 

y2 liquid pint 

8 fluid ounces 

1 liquid pint 
16 fluid ounces 



1 cup 



cups 



2 pts — one qt. 

8 qts — one peck 

4 pks — 1 bu. 

105 qts — 1 barrel 

Ice — 30 cu. in. — 1 pound 



Sugar 1 c — 3^ lb. 
Butter 1 c— 3^ lb. 
Lard 1 c— >^ lb. 
Flour Ic—Yz lb. 
Rice 1 c— ^ lb. 



8 HOWTOCOOKIT 

Chapter I. 

BEVERAGES 

TEA 

Cold tea should be served ice cold. 
Hot tea should be served hot. 

Rules for Making Tea. 

1. Use freshly boiled water. 

2. Scald tea pot. 

3. Tea should be infused, never boiled. 

Recipe for Making Tea. 

6 tsp. tea. 4 cups boiling water 

Scald teapot. Pour boiling water over tea and let stand 

in a warm place for five minutes. Strain and serve with lemon 

or milk. 

Five o'clock Tea, 

Oolong, English Breakfast and Orange Pekoe tea are 
used for afternoon tea. It may be in a teapot when the tray 
is brought in. The recipe for tea may be used. 

Tea Accompaniments. 

Lump sugar. Cream. 

Lemon drops. Sliced lemon 

Whole cloves. Candied cherries. 

Iced Tea. 

8 tsp. tea. 4 cups boiling water. 

Follow tea recipe. Strain into glasses one-half full of 
cracked ice. Sweeten with powdered sugar and allow a slice 
of lemon for each glass. 

COFFEE 
Coffee mav be served as filtered coffee and boiled coffee. 



HOVVTOCOOKIT 9 

Rules for Making Coffee. 

Coffee should not be boiled or steeped. 
Coffee should be freshly ground. 

Percolator Coffee. 

1 cup coffee. 5 cups boiling water. 

In making percolator coffee pour boiling water slowly 
over the finely ground coffee. ^ 

Boiled Coffee. 

Yi cup coffee Yi cup cold water 

J ^%'g shell 5 cups boiling water 

^ cup cold water 
Scald coffee pot. Mix coffee and cold water and ^zz 

shell; add to the boiling water; boil five minutes; add y2 cup 

cold water ; let stand one minute and serve. 



COCOA 

Breakfast Cocoa. 

2 tb. cocoa 3 cups water 

2 tb. sugar 3 cups milk 

Boil sugar, water and cocoa until a thick S3'rup — scald 
milk, add to cocoa syrup, beat with a Dover ^^% beater and 
serve. 

Reception Cocoa. 

2 tb. cocoa 2 tb. sugar 

J4 cup cream (whipped cream) 

4 cups milk 1 tb. powdered sugar 

1 cup water ^ tsp. Baker's vanilla 

Cook cocoa, sugar and water until a syrup ; add scalded 
milk (serve with cream which has been whipped), and pow- 
dered sugar and vanilla. 

To whip cream — add powdered sugar and vanilla and 
beat until stiff. 



10 HOWTOCOOKIT 

FRUIT BEVERAGES 

Sugar syrup used to sweeten iced drinks is a considerable 
saving of sugar. The syrup is made by boiling one cup- 
ful of sugar and ^ cupful of water for five minutes. This 
proportion makes a very heavy syrup. Juices left from can- 
ning may be used in making iced drinks. The fruit juice on 
the market will make twice the amount the original bottle 
contained. Fruit drinks should be garnished attractively. 

Fruit Punch. 

1 can grated pineapple 1 qt. grape juice 

Juice of 12 oranges 2 cups sugar syrup 

Juice of 3 lemons 3 qts. water 

Mix fruit juice; add sugar syrup and water; add ice. 

When ready to serve, garnish with cherries, strawberries, 

sliced oranges, bananas or mint leaves. 

Lemonade. 

Juice and grated rind of 3 lemons 

1^ cup sugar syrup (or more, according to taste.) 

Raspberry Delight. 

1 pt. raspberry juice 2 qts. water 
Juice from 2 lemons 1 cup sugar syrup 
Mix and serve with cracked ice. 

Pineapple Lemonade. 

2 cups boiling water Juice of 3 lemons 

1 cup sugar 1 can grated pineapple 
Boil sugar and water, add lemon juice and pineapple; 

cool, add chopped ice and serve with a cherry in each glass. 

Iced Loganberry Juice. 

2 cups loganberry juice ^^ cup orange juice 

Fill four glasses with crushed ice and pour mixture into 
glasses. 



HOWTOCOOKIT 11 

QUICK BREADS 

Little Muffins. 

3 cups flour Yz tb. sugar 

4 tsp. baking powder 1 ^^'g 

Yi. tsp. salt 1 cup milk 

3 tb. butter 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add ^%g and milk gradually, 
add melted butter; beat with an ^g'g beater for two minutes. 
Bake in a moderately hot oven in small, well oiled tins 
until light brown (the time will depend upon the size of the 
muffin tins.) 



Graham Muffins. 

1 cup flour 1 tb. sugar 

1 cup graham flour 1 ^gg 

2>y2 tsp. baking powder 1 cup milk 
3>^ tb. butter 

Mix and dry ingredients — follow recipe for " Little 
Muffins." 



Southern Corn Bread. 

1 cup corn meal 5 tsp. baking powder 

1 cup flour y^ tsp. salt 

Yz c. sugar 1 ^gg 

2 tb. butter 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk and egg well 
beaten; add melted butter; beat mixtures; bake in a square 
shallow tin in a hot oven twenty-five minutes. 

Popovers. 

1 egg Ys cup milk 

Y tsp. salt 1 cup flour 

Y teaspoon melted butter 
Place oiled muffin tins or custard cups in the oven, heat 
until very hot. Mix ingredients ; add milk gradually, then 



13 HOWTOCOOKIT 

melted butter ; beat with Dover egg beater five minutes ; turn 
into hot tins, fill three-fourths full and bake in a hot oven 
thirty-five to forty minutes. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. 

2 cups bread flour 2 tb. butter 

5 tsp. baking powder ^ c. milk (more or less) 

y2 tsp salt 
Mix dry ingredients and sift. Work in butter with fork, 

two knives, or finger tips ; add liquid, mixing with knife until 

a soft dough. Toss on floured board, pat and roll to 1 in. 

thickness. Shape, place on a buttered tin and bake twelve 

minutes in a hot oven. 

Griddle Cakes. 

2 cups flour 2 eggs 

j^ tsp. salt V/z cup milk 

2 tsp. baking powder 2 tb. butter 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add the milk and beaten 
eggs gradually ; add melted butter. The griddle should be 
hot and thoroughly greased, and the mixture should be baked 
as soon as mixed. 

Waffles. 

1% cup flour 1 cup milk 

3 tsp. baking powder yolks 2 eggs 
^2 tsp. salt whites 2 eggs 

1>4 tb. butter 
Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk and yolks well 
beaten; melted butter and cut and fold in the stififly beaten 
whites of eggs. Cook in a hot, well oiled waffle iron. Put a 
tablespoon of the mixture in each section of the iron, cover, 
and the mixture will just fill the iron. The iron can be turned 
almost as soon as it is filled. 

Doughnuts. 

1 cup sugar 4 tsp. baking powder 

3 eggs ^ tsp. cinnamon 

1 cup milk 54 tsp. nutmeg 

35^ cups flour IJ^ tsp. salt 



HOW TO COOK IT 13 

Mix the dry ingredients; add the beaten eggs and only 
enough milk to make a stiff dough ; toss one-fourth the mix- 
ture at a time on a floured board; roll to ys inch thickness; 
cut with a doughnut cutter; fry in deep fat; lift out with a 
skewer and drain on brown paper. 

Rules for Testing Fat. 

1. When fat begins to smoke, drop in a small piece of 
bread and if in sixty seconds it is golden brown, it is the right 
temperature for frying uncooked mixtures. Cooked mix- 
tures require only forty seconds. 

Strawberry Shortcake. 

2 cups flour 1 egg 

}i c. sugar Y^ c. butter 

4 tsp. baking powder Yz c. milk 

Y2 tsp. salt 
Mix dry ingredients and sift three times — work in short- 
ening; add tgg well beaten, and milk. Pat and roll to 2 in. 
thickness. Bake in a hot oven 20 minutes. Split and spread 
with butter. Fill with strawberries ; place on the top and 
cover with Whipped Cream Sauce. 

Individual Shortcakes. 

5 tsp. baking powder 2 tb. butter 
2 cups flour 4 tb. sugar 
Y2 tsp. salt 1 cup milk 

Mix as baking powder biscuit. Split biscuit, fill with 
mashed berries and cover top with cream. 

Nut Bread. No. 1. 

lYi cups graham flour 5 tsp. baking powder 

2 cups white flour Y2 tsp. salt 

Y2 cup sugar IY2 cup milk 

y^ cup broken walnut meats 

Mix dry ingredients ; add milk gradually, then nuts. Put 
into oiled bread pans and bake in a moderate oven 50 to 60 
minutes. 



14 HOW TO COOK IT 

Nut Bread. No. 2. 

}i cup sugar ^ tsp. salt 

23^ c. flour 1 egg 

4 tsp. baking powder 1 cup milk 

1 cup nut meats 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add beaten egg and milk 
gradually, then nut meats. Bake in buttered bread pans 50 to 
60 minutes. 



Steamed Brown Bread. 

1 cup white flour ^ tsp. soda 

1 cup corn meal ^ tsp. salt 

1 cup graham flour % cup molasses 

lj4 c. milk 

Mix dry ingredients. Add milk and stir until smooth ; 
add molasses and mix thoroughly. Fill buttered molds two- 
thirds full ; steam 3 to 33/2 hours. 

Whole Wheat Muffins. 

1^ cup whole wheat flour J/2 tsp. salt 

1 tb. sugar 1 tb. melted butter 

2 tsp. baking powder ^4 cup milk 

Mix dr}^ ingredients; add milk and then melted butter; 
beat, pour into oiled gem pans and bake 20 to 30 minutes in 
a moderately hot oven. 

Gingerbread. 

Ys c. butter or other fat 3 c. flour 

% c. boiling water 1 t. soda 

1 cup molasses 3^ t. salt 

1 egg well beaten 1 tb. ginger 

y^ c. sugar if desired 

Melt butter in boiling water, and add molasses and egg. 
Mix and sift dry ingredients and add to the first mixture 
gradually. Bake in a shallow buttered tin in a moderate oven 
from 25 to 30 minutes. 



HOWTOCOOKIT 15 

Fritter Batter. 

134 c. flour Yi c. milk 

2 tsp. baking powder 34 tsp. salt 

1 egg 
Mix and sift dry ingredients, add ^g%, and milk gradu- 
ally ; beat until smooth and fry in deep fat. 

Note — Bananas, Oranges, Corn, Apples, Oysters, Pine- 
apple, Peaches, Salmon may be used with this batter. When 
fruits are used, cut up into small pieces and add 1^ tb. pow- 
dered sugar to the batter. 

YEAST BREADS 

Directions for Making Bread With Yeast. 

1. Mixture should not be overheated or chilled, as heat 
kills yeast and cold delays its growth. 

2. Dough requires less kneading if the batter is well 
beaten in mixing. 

3. Reasons for kneading dough : 

a. to incorporate air. 

b. to thoroughly mix ingredients. 

c. to make it elastic. 

4. When bread is baked, remove from oven, take from 
pans and allow to cool uncovered. 

5. Bread should be kept in a covered bread box. 

White Bread. 

1 c. hot milk (or water) 2 tb. butter 

1 c. hot water 2 tb. sugar 

2 tsp. salt 1 yeast cake 
y2 c. lukewarm water 2 qts. flour 

Mix yeast until smooth in lukewarm water; add salt, sugar 
and butter to the hot milk and water and allow to cool until 
lukewarm; then add to the yeast mixture and add enough 
flour to m^ake a drop batter; beat thoroughly, and add remain- 
ing flour to make a soft dough and knead on a floured board 
until no longer sticky ; place in a covered utensil and keep in 
a warm place until doubled in bulk. Shape into a loaf and 



16 HOWTOCOOKIT 

place in an oiled bread pan. Brush the top with melted butter 
and let rise until double in bulk and bake in a hot oven 45 min. 
to 1 hr. 

Note — If bread is set the night before one-half the amount 
of yeast may be used. 

RoUs. 

Follow the recipe and directions for making white bread; 
when twice its bulk shape into rolls. 

To make Parker House Rolls take one at a time ; roll into 
a ball; then flatten it, brush the top with a little butter; make 
a crease through the center, fold over, pressing the edges 
tightly together. Place rolls in buttered pan an inch apart, 
brush with butter, allow to rise and bake in a hot oven for 
20 min. 

Cinnamon Rolls. 

Follow recipe for White Bread. Roll dough to Y^ inch 
thickness. Cover with raisins, sprinkle with cinnamon and 
sugar mixture ; allow ^4 tsp. cinnamon to one tb. sugar. Roll 
as for Jelly Roll and cut with a sharp knife y^ in. thick. Place 
in buttered tins, allow to double in size and bake in a hot oven 
15 to 20 minutes. 

USES FOR DRY BREAD 

Bread Crumbs. Grind or roll pieces of bread which have 
been thoroughly dried in the oven. They may be kept for 
some time in covered glass jars. 

Toast. Cut stale bread in ^-in. slices ; place on the rack 
in the broiling oven ; toast until brown on one side ; turn and 
brown on the other side. 

Cream Toast. 

2 c. milk 2 tb. flour 

^ tb. butter Y^ tsp. salt 

5 slices bread 

Make a white sauce of milk, flour, butter and salt. Toast 
the bread on both sides, put on plate and pour white sauce be- 
tween and over the toast. 



HOWTOCOOKIT 17 

French Toast. 

2 c, milk 2 eggs 

y^ tsp. salt 8 slices stale bread 

Add slightly beaten eggs and salt to milk. Dip bread into 
egg mixture. Fry in hot buttered frying pan to golden brown. 

Cinnamon Toast. 

Toast one side of bread, butter the untoasted side, sprin- 
kle with cinnamon and sugar mixture and toast. 



18 HOWTOCOOKIT 

Chapter III 

CAKES 

General Directions. 

1. Measure all the ingredients. 

2. Use pastry flour. Sift the flour before measuring, 
return to the sifter, add baking powder, salt and spices. When 
fruit or nuts are used, dredge with flour. 

3. Separate the yolks and whites of eggs, but do not 
beat until ready to use them. 

4. Oil the pans thoroughly with the same kind of fat 
used in the mixture. 

5. Light the oven and be sure it is the right temperature 
before the ingredients are combined. 

Mixing. 

Cream the butter by continued rubbing against the bowl 
with a wooden spoon, finally beating until almost white. Add 
the sugar gradually and continue beating until the sugar 
ceases to be granular. Beat the yolks of the eggs until thick 
and lemon colored; beat into the creamed butter and sugar. 
Rinse the bowl in which the eggs were beaten with the milk. 
Add the flour and milk alternately ; that is a quarter of the 
flour, then a portion of the milk and so on. First stir, then 
beat vigorously. Add Baker's vanilla. Add fruit if used. 

Beat whites of eggs until stiff; cut and fold into the mix- 
ture. Fill the pans half full, with the sides well filled and a 
slight depression in the center. 

Time Required for Baking. 

Temperature of the oven — moderate — 380 degrees F. 
Time depends upon the thickness of the cake. 

a. Cup cake — 12-15 minutes. 

b. Layer Cake — 20-30 minutes. 
Loaf cake — 30-40 minutes. 



HOWTOCOOKIT 19 

b. Quarters of time. 

1. Begins to rise. 

2. Continues to rise; begins to brown. 

3. Finishes browning. 

4. Shrinks from pan. 
Care After Baking. 

When taken from the oven allow it to remain in the pan 
about three minutes; loosen the edges with a knife; invert on 
a cooler; turn right side up after a few minutes. 

Tiny Cakes. 

1^ c. flour ' 3 tb. butter 

^ c. sugar 2 eggs 

2J/< tsp. baking powder ^ c. milk 

Ys tsp. salt 3^ tsp. Baker's flavoring 

Cream the butter; add the sugar, cream together; add 
beaten eggs. Mix dry ingredients and add alternately with 
milk ; add flavoring. Bake in tiny cake tins in a moderately 
hot oven twelve minutes. Do not fill the tins more than 
one-third full. 

Dutch Apple Cake. 

2 c. flour 4 tb. melted butter 
4 tsp. baking powder j^ tsp. cinnamon 
^2 tsp. salt 1 c. milk 

^ c. sugar 1 egg 

2 sliced apples 

Mix dry ingredients, add egg and milk, add melted butter 
and beat. Pour into a greased floured shallow tin, arrange 
slices of apple, sprinkle with cinnamon mixed with 1 tb. of 
sugar. 

Sliced canned peaches may be substituted for apples. 
The cinnamon is combined with dry ingredients in cake. 

Feather Cakes. 

3 tb. butter 2^ tsp. baking powder 
^ c. sugar Whites 2 eggs 

J/2 c. milk J4 tsp. Baker's vanilla 

ly^ c. flour J4 tsp. Baker's almond 



80 HOW TO COOK IT 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, then flour and baking 
powder with the milk ; add beaten whites and Baker's flavor- 
ing. Fill tiny cake tins one-third full; bake in a moderate 
oven fifteen minutes. Frost with Maple Cream Frosting. 

Southern Spice Cake. 

yz c. sugar Y^ c. milk 

3 tb. butter 2 tsp. baking powder 

1 tgg IJ^ c. flour 

34 c. coffee (strong) %c. corn starch 

1 tsp. cinnamon 34 tsp. cloves 

% tsp. allspice 
Cream butter, add sugar and beaten egg yolk. Sift and 
measure flour; add to dry ingredients, sift together and add to 
the butter, sugar and egg alternately with the milk and coffee. 
Pour into layer cake tins and bake in a moderately hot oven 
twenty minutes. Frost with Velvet Cream or Boiled Frosting. 

One Egg Cake. 

Yi c. sugar 34 tsp. salt 

3 tb. butter 13^ tsp. baking powder 

1 egg Y^ c. milk 

13/2 c. flour 1 tsp. Baker's vanila 

Cream the butter; add the sugar and beaten egg yolk — 
add dry ingredients alternately with the milk. Fold in beaten 
whites and Baker's flavoring. Pour into layer cake tins and 
bake in a moderately hot oven 25 min. 

Cocoa Cake. 

2 egg yolks 1>^ c. flour 

Y2 c. milk 3 tsp. baking powder 

2 tb. cocoa 2 tb. melted butter 

}i c. sugar 1 tsp. Baker's vanilla or 

Y2 c. milk 34 c. coffee 
Cook cocoa, milk and egg yolks in a double boiler until 
thick. Mix dry inigredients, add to cocoa mixture alternately 



HOW TO COOK IT 21 

with milk ; add melted butter and Baker's flavoring. Bake in a 
square shallow pan for twenty minutes. Frost with Choco- 
late or Boiled Frosting. 

Devil's Food Cake. 

y^ c. butter 1 c. flour 

^ c. sugar 1 tsp. soda 

2 e^g yolks 2 oz. chocolate 

Yz c. milk 54 tsp. Baker's vanilla 

Cream the butter ; add the sugar and beaten e^gg yolks ; 
add melted chocolate, then the flour and soda alternately with 
the milk ; add Baker's flavoring and bake in two layer tins for 
twenty-five minutes. 

Sour Cream Cake. 

2 eggs Yz tsp. salt 

Ya c. sugar Y2 tsp. Baker's vanilla, or 

1 c. thick sour cream Y2 tsp. cinnamon 

2 c. flour (scant) ^ tsp. cloves 
1/4 tsp. baking powder Yz tsp. soda 

Beat eggs, add sugar, cream and Baker's flavoring — con- 
tinue beating. Mix and sift flour, baking powder, soda, salt 
and spices (if used). Add this to the first mixture and blend 
to a smooth batter. Bake in two layers, in a loaf or in small 
pans. 

Jelly Roll. 

3 eggs Ya tsp. Baker's vanilla 
^ c. sugar 1 tsp. baking powder 

1 tb. milk (scant) Ya tsp. salt 

1 c. flour 1 tb. melted butter 

Beat eggs until light, add sugar gradually and continue 
beating; add milk. Baker's flavoring, flour, salt and baking 
powder sifted together and then melted butter. Pour into 
a large buttered shallow pan with bottom lined with buttered 
paper. Spread the mixture Yi i"- thick and bake 12 min. in a 
moderate oven. Turn on a clean cloth wrung out of hot water. 
Remove paper quickly and trim edges with sharp knife — 
spread with jelly, roll and wrap with paper to hold the shape. 



22 HOWTOCOOKIT 

Washington Pie. 

^ c. shortening J^ tsp. Baker's flavoring 

f^ c. sugar IK c. flour 

2 eggs 2^ tsp. baking powder 

Yi c. milk ]/i tsp. salt 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually then beaten yolks and 
flavoring. Mix flour and baking powder and add to the first 
mixture alternating with the milk. Fold in beaten t^^ whites. 
Bake in two or three layers. When cool spread jelly filling 
between the layers and pile with whipped cream on top. 

Chocolate bars. 

2 eggs 2 sqs. chocolate 

1 c. sugar 6 tb. shortening 

Yz c. flour 1 tsp. Baker's vanilla 

1 c. broken nut meats 
Beat eggs, add sugar gradually and continue beating; 

melt butter and chocolate together over hot water and add to 

the first mixture. Add flour, vanilla and nuts. Spread 1-3 in. 

thick on buttered shallow pans and bake in a moderate oven. 

When cool cut into small bars. 

Gold Cake. 

34 c. butter ^ tsp. Baker's vanilla or 

grated rind of lemon 
y-i. c. sugar 1 c. flour 

4 ^%^ yolks 2 tsp. baking powder 

Yi c. milk few grains of salt 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually ; add well-beaten yolks 
then flavoring and mix thoroughly. Mix and sift baking pow- 
der and flour and add alternately with the milk. Bake in but- 
tered loaf tin. 

Sponge Cake. 

3 eggs IJ^ c. flour 

1 c. sugar \Yi tsp. baking powder 

Yi c. cold water 54 tsp. salt 

1 tsp. Baker's vanilla 



HOWTOCOOKIT 33 

Beat eggs whole, add sugar, beat well. Add water, flour, 
salt and Baker's vanilla. Bake 20 minutes in moderate oven. 

Angel Cake. 

1 c. egg whites 1 c. granulated sugar 

1 c. flour 5^ tsp. Baker's vanilla 

1 tsp. cream of tartar ys tsp. salt 

Sift sugar and flour three times. Add salt and cream of 
tartar to egg whites and beat until stiff and dry. Fold into the 
flour and sugar, add flavoring and turn into an unbuttered 
angel tin. Bake in a slow oven until the surface springs back 
when pressed with the finger tips. Remove from oven and 
place pan bottom up on a wire cake cooler. 

Cream Puffs. 

Ys c. butter 1 c. boiling water 

1 c. flour 4 eggs 

Boil butter with water until butter is melted; bring to 
the boiling point; add flour all at once and stir over fire until 
the mixture is stiff. Cool slightly and add the unbeaten eggs 
one at a time, beating in each until thoroughly mixed. Drop 
by spoonsful on a buttered tin 2 in. apart. If a glazed surface 
is desired brush with white of egg before baking. Bake 30 to 
35 min. in a moderate oven. When cool cut a slit and fill with 
sweetened whipped cream or cream filling. 

Chocolate Eclairs. 

Use cream puff mixtures, shaping in oblongs about 4 in. 
long and 1 in. wide. Bake as for Cream Puffs and fill with 
Chocolate Cream Filling. Cover top with chocolate (fil) 
frosting. 

COOKIES AND WAFERS 

General Directions for Cookies. 

1. Cream the butter and sugar. 

2. Add beaten egg. 

3. Add milk and sifted ingredients alternately. 

4. Add only enough flour to roll dough. 



24 HOW TO COOK IT 

5. For thin cookies the dough should be chilled before 
rolling. 

6. Cookies require a moderately hot oven. 

Chocolate Nut Cookies. 

2c. flour y^ c. milk 

Yz c. sugar ^ c. chopped meats (nut) 

y^ tsp. salt 2 oz. chocolate 

2 tsp. baking powder 1 ^^^ 

2 tb. butter 

Cream butter and sugar; add beaten tgg; add melted 
chocolate, dry ingredients and milk alternately ; add walnut 
meats. Roll to Y in. thickness ; cut and bake in a moderate 
oven about 12 min. 

This recipe makes about 4 doz. very small cookies. 

Cream Cookies. 

3 c. flour 2 tsp. baking powder 
34 c. sugar 34 c. raisins 

34 tsp. salt 34 c. top milk or cream 

34 tsp. cloves 1 egg 

j4 tsp. cinnamon 34 c. butter 

Cream butter and sugar; add beaten eggs, dry ingredients 

and milk alternately ; add raisins, roll and cut about 34 i"- 

thick. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Note — The raisins may be omitted in this recipe. 

Ginger Snaps. 

'•^c. flour 34 c. butter 

3^ c. molasses 34 tsp. soda 

ys tsp. salt 13^ tsp. ginger 

Boil butter and molasses ; when cool add dry ingredients ; 

chill, roll out thin and cut; bake in a moderate oven about 10 

min. 

Jelly Filled Cookies. 

2 c. flour ^ c. milk 

/'2 c. sugar 34 c. butter 

34 tsp. salt 1 egg 

2 tsp. baking powder 34 c. jelly 



HOWTOCOOKIT 35 

Cream butter, add sugar and tgg; add dry ingredients 
alternately with milk. Roll on floured board ; cut, put one-half 
teaspoon jelly on top and join two cookies together like a 
sandwich. Bake in a moderately hot oven 10 min. 

Molasses Cookies. 

y2 c. molasses 1 tsp. baking powder 

V2 c. milk }^ tsp. soda 

2y2 c. flour y2 tsp. salt 

1 tsp. ginger ^2 tsp. cinnamon 

2 tb. melted butter 
Mix dry ingredients with 3 c. of flour; mix molasses, milk 
and butter and add to dry mixtures. Add enough of the re- 
maining flour to make a soft dough. Chill thoroughly, roll a 
small quantity of the mixture at a time to y in. thickness. 
Cut and bake on a slightly buttered tin in a moderate oven 
10 to 15 min. 

CAKE FROSTINGS AND FILLINGS 

Strawberry Cream Filling. 

1 egg white 1 tb. powdered sugar 

1 c. strawberries (whole) 

Beat Qgg white with wire whip; add strawberries and 
powdered sugar. Continue beating until thoroughly mixed. 

Quick Frosting. 

1 c. powdered sugar y^ tsp. Baker's vanilla 

2 tb. hot water 

Sift sugar, stir into hot water; add Baker's flavoring. 
This may be varied by using cocoa or other flavoring. 

Cream Puff Filling. 

1 c. sugar 1 spk. salt 
j4 c. flour 2 eggs 

2 c. scalded milk y tsp. Baker's vanilla 
Mix dry ingredients ; add gradually to scalded milk ; cook 

in double boiler, stirring constantly until thickened; pour 



26 HOWTOCOOKIT 

over slightly beaten eggs; mix well and return to double 
boiler. Cook two minutes over water below boiling point; 
remove from fire, cool and add flavoring. 

Chocolate Eclair Filling. 

IJ^ sqs. melted chocolate 

Use directions for cream filling, adding chocolate to 
scalded milk. 

Boiled Frosting. 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. Baker's vanilla, or 

Yi. c. water ^ tsp. lemon juice 

1 ^z^ white 
Boil sugar and water without stirring until syrup threads 
when dropped from the tip of a spoon; cool slightly and pour 
syrup gradually on stiftly beaten egg white, beating con- 
stantly; add Baker's flavoring and continue beating until 
thick enough to spread. 

Fig and Nut Filling. 

1 c. figs (chopped) Yz c. water 

1 c. nuts (chopped) spk. salt 

Yz c. sugar Y^ tsp. lemon juice 

Dissolve sugar in water; add figs and nuts; cook until 
thick ; add Baker's flavor. 

Fudge Frosting. 

1 c. sugar 1 sq. chocolate 

Yi c. milk Y^ tb. butter 

Ya tsp. Baker's vanilla 
Boil sugar, milk and chocolate until a soft ball when tried 

in water; add butter, cool, beat until creamy and spread on 

cake. 

Mocha Frosting. 

1 c. confectioners' sugar 3 tb. cocoa 

2 tb. butter 1 tb. strong coffee 

Ya tsp. Baker's vanilla 
Mix sugar and cocoa, cream butter, add to the sugar mix- 
ture moistened to the desired consistency with strong coffee. 



HOWTOCOOKIT 27 

Chocolate Frosting. 

1 c. granulated sugar 2 sqs. chocolate 

Yi c. hot water ^ tsp. Baker's vanilla 

2 tb. whipped cream or 1 tb. butter 
Boil sugar and water until it spins a thread ; pour over 

chocolate ; add Baker's vanilla and beat until creamy ; add 

whipped cream or butter. 

Cocoanut Cream Frosting. 

1 c. powdered sugar 1 tgg white 

1 c. shredded cocoanut 34 tsp. Baker's vanilla 

y2 c. top milk or cream 2 drops Baker's almond 

Sift sugar, add cocoanut and white of e^g beaten stiff; 

add milk or cream until the consistency to spread ; add Baker's 

flavoring. 

Chocolate Marshmallow Fudge. 

Cut the marshmallow in halves, cover cake and pour over 
fudge frosting, using a hot knife to spread. 



3« HOW TO COOK IT 

Chapter IV 

CANDY 

General Directions for Candy Making. 

The different stages of sugar cookery in candy-making 
are soft ball, hard ball, crack, hard crack. 

The sugar and water boiled together reaches the soft 
ball stage when a portion dropped into cold water can be 
gathered up with the fingers into a soft ball. 

The hard ball stage is reached when the portion tested 
forms a firm, compact ball. 

At the crack degree, the portion tested becomes slightly 
brittle and can no longer be molded into a ball. In other 
words, it is the point at which the candy first becomes 
"snappy." 

The hard crack is the stage at which the portion tested 
becomes hard and brittle. 

After the hard crack stage is passed, the syrup gradually 
changes color, becoming first light yellow, deep yellow, brown 
and finally a deep red. These represent the different stages 
of Caramelization, 

At the last stage the sugar has lost its sweet taste and is 
used for coloring soups and gravies. 

At th« intermediate stage it is used for flavoring ice 
creams and custards. 

These different stages may be easily determined by the 
use of a thermometer. 

At the following stages the thermometer registers : 

Centegrade or Fahrenheit 

Soft ball stage 113 1^ to 117 236 to 242 

Hard ball stage 123^4 254 

Crack stage 127 to 135 260 to 275 

Hard crack stage 1433^ 290 

Caramel stage 149 to 176 200 to 350 



HOVVTOCOOKIT 29 

Peanut Butter Fudge. 

2 c. white sugar 1 c. milk 

Butter, size of egg 

Boil until it forms a firm ball, remove from fire and add 
3 tablespoons of peanut butter, a pinch of salt and tablespoon 
of Baker's vanilla. Beat until it starts to thicken, then pour 
into buttered pan and cut before it is quite cold. 

Maple Peanut Fudge. 

1 lb. confectioners' sugar 2 tbsp. cocoa 

y2 lb. maple sugar 2 tbsp. Baker's vanilla 

1 lb. ground salted peanuts 

Boil sugar and maple sugar until nearly done, then mix 
cocoa in 3^ cup milk and add to the mixture; add vanilla. 
When done stir in ground peanuts. Pour in buttered pan to 
cool. 

Chocolate Marshmallow Fudge. 

2 c. sugar 1 tb. marshmallow^ 
3yi c. milk 1 tb. butter 

2 sqs. chocolate %. tsp. Baker's vanilla 

y^ c. walnut meats 

Boil sugar, milk and chocolate to soft ball stage. Add 
butter and vanilla, allow to cool, beat and when creamy add 
nuts and marshmallow. Pour into buttered tin and mark in 
squares. 

Brown Sugar Fudge. 

1 c. white sugar y^ c. milk 

1 c. brown sugar 1 tb. butter 

% tsp. Baker's vanilla 

Cook sugar and milk to a soft ball, add butter and vanilla, 
cool, beat until creamy, pour into a buttered tin. 



30 HOWTOCOOKIT 

Caramels. 

iy2 c. corn syrup 2 c. of white sugar 

2 c. of cream or condensed 1 c. of butter 

milk 1 c. nut meats 

Put sugar, corn syrup, butter and one cup of milk in a 
kettle and cook until the mixture boils vigorously, then add 
the other cup of milk. Do not allow the mixture to stop boil- 
ing while the milk is being added. Boil until, when tested in 
cold water, it will form a finn ball. Remove from fire, add 
vanilla and nut meats and pour into a buttered biscuit pan to 
make a sheet ^ of an inch thick, and when nearly cold take 
out of pan, cut into cubes and roll in wax paper. 



Molasses Mint Taffy. 

Ic. molasses 1-16 tsp. salt 

1 tps. vinegar 54 tsp. soda 

3/2 tbp. butter 3 drops oil of peppermint 

Boil together the molasses, vinegar, salt and butter until 
the mixture is brittle when tested in cold water (270 F.) Add 
the soda and peppermint and stir until it stops foaming. Pour 
into a greased pan (2 pans 4 in. x 6 in.) When cool gather 
into a ball and pull until light and stiff. Stretch out in a long 
rope and cut into small pieces with scissors. 



Cocoanut Biscuits. 

1^ c. cocoanut chopped % c. flour 

>4c. corn syrup (light) 1 tgg white 

Beat egg white until stiff; gradually fold in corn syrup, 
flour, and finely chopped cocoanut. Drop on baking sheet, 
forming biscuits about 1^ in. in diameter. Bake in a hot 
oven (400-415 F.) for fifteen to twenty minutes. 



HOWTOCOOKIT 31 

Butter Scotch. 

2 c. corn syrup (dark) 1 tsp. vinegar 

4 tbp. butter 

Cook syrup, vinegar and Yz of butter together until brittle 
when dropped into cold water (275 F.) Add remainder of 
butter; stir until melted. Pour in thin sheet on inverted pan. 
Mark in 1-inch squares while warm. 



Puffed Rice Balls. 

1 pkg. puffed rice y^ c. water 

^ c. white corn syrup 34 tsp. vinegar and salt 

1 c. sugar y2 tb. Baker's vanilla 

Boil sugar, water and corn syrup without stirring until 

crack stage, add remaining ingredients, remove from fire, pour 

over puffed rice which has been heated in the oven in a large 

pan. Form into balls and let stand until cold. 

Peanut Brittle. 

1 c. sugar 1 c. chopped peanuts 

Melt sugar in frying pan over a low flame, stirring until 

light brown, add nuts and a few grains of salt, pour quickly 

into a shallow buttered pan. 



Salted Nuts. 

Use unroasted peanuts or almonds. Cover with boiling 
water and boil one minute. Plunge into cold water and drain, 
remove skins and dry on clean cloth. Fry a few at a time in 
olive oil until light brown, using a small deep pan. Stir con- 
stantly so that the nuts may be browned evenly. Remove, 
drain, spread on an unglazed paper and sprinkle with salt. 

Note— Other oils may be substituted for olive oil or a 
clarified mixture of butter and lard may be used. Nuts may be 
browned by placing in a pan covered with fat and set in the 
oven to brown. 



32 HOW TO COOK IT 

Glace Nuts or Fruits. 

1. c. sugar Yz c. boiling water 

1-16 tsp. cream of tartar 

Put ingredients in top of double boiler over direct flame, 
boil until syrup begins to discolor. Remove and place into 
bottom of double boiler filled with cold water to instantly stop 
boiling — then place over hot water during dipping. Take 
nuts or fruit separately, dip into syrup and place on oiled 
paper. 



HOWTOCOOKIT 33 

Chapter V 

GENERAL METHOD OF COOKING CEREALS 

Utensil — Double Boiler. 

Usual proportions — ^2 c. flakes or 34 c- granules to 1 c, 
water, ^4 t. salt to 1 c. water. 

The denser the cereal, the more water and the longer the 
time required. 

Bring water to boiling point in upper part of double boiler, 
placed directly on the stove. 

Shake cereal slowly into boiling water, stirring constantly. 

Let boiling continue until mixture begins to thicken. 
Place over boiling water in lower part of the boiler. 

Cover and cook gently with little stirring, 1 hr. or more, 
or until tender and soft. Or put in fireless cooker for 3 hours. 

Serve hot, with or without sugar, with milk, cream or 
butter. 

Put in moulds with fruit and serve cold as dessert. 

Corn Meal Mush. 

Mix 1 c. corn meal, 1 tsp. salt, 1 c. cold milk or water. 
When smooth, blend with 1 pt. boiling water, stir for about 5 
minutes ; when thick, place over water and cook one hour or 
more. Or put in fireless cooker to finish cooking. Serve hot, 
or pack in pan to fry, or dip in fat and toast under the gas. 

Fried Cereal. 

Pack solidly in moulds which have been wet in cold water. 
Turn out when cold. Slice. Sprinkle each slice with flour. 
Brown in hot fat. Serve with syrup. 

Cream of Wheat with Raisins. 

Yz c. Cream of Wheat 2 c. boiling water 

Yz tsp. salt 34 c. raisins (Washed and 

cut in small pieces) 
Cook in double boiler 1 hr. ; add raisins. 



34 HOWTOCOOKIT 

Boiled Rice. 

Yz c. rice ^ c. boiling water 

Yz tsp. salt 

Wash rice and cook in boiling water until soft. Drain 
and set in a warm place to dry. 

Steamed Rice. 

Prepare as for boiled rice, but cook in a double boiler 
40 minutes. 

Boiled Macaroni. 

lJ/2 c. macaroni 10 c. boiling water 

XYz tb. salt 2 tb. butter 

34 tsp. pepper Yz c. milk 

Break macaroni in inch pieces, wash and cook in boiling 
salted water until tender (45 min.) stirring often to prevent 
burning. Drain and pour cold water over macaroni to keep 
pieces from sticking. 

Baked Macaroni vdth Cheese. 

Put a layer of boiled macaroni in a buttered baking dish, 
sprinkle with grated cheese ; repeat ; when dish is three-fourths 
filled, pour white sauce over the mixture, cover with bread 
crumbs and bake until crumbs are brown. 



HOWTOCOOKIT 35 

Chapter VI 

CHEESE DISHES 

Cheese Fondue. 

1 c. milk (scalded) 3^ tsp. salt 

1 c. soft bread crumbs 1 tb. butter 

Yi lb. or 1 c. cheese (cut in few grains cayenne 
small pieces) 1 to 2 eggs 

Melt the butter; add milk, crumbs and chopped cheese. 
Stir until cheese is melted, add seasonings and beaten yolks, 
cut and fold in whites beaten stiff. Pour into a buttered 
baking dish and bake 20 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Welch Rarebit. 

1 c. grated cheese 1 tb, butter 

1 c. milk Yz tsp. mustard 

spk. of cayenne 3^ tsp. salt 

1 tb. flour 2 eggs 

Melt butter, add dry ingredients, stir until mixed ; add 
milk gradually and cook until thick ; add cheese and stir until 
it melts. Serve on bread toasted on one side ; pour mixture 
over the untoasted side. 

Cheese Pudding. 

1 c. cheese 1 ^^^ 

2 c. milk 2 tb. butter 
Yt. tsp. mustard Y^ tsp. salt 
1-16 tsp. pepper 3 slices bread 

Scald milk, add cheese and seasonings; stir until dis- 
solved ; add eggs well beaten. Pour over buttered cubes of 
bread and bake in a buttered baking dish until firm. Chopped 
peppers may be added if desired. 



36 HOW TO COOK IT 

Chapter VII 

EGGS 

Soft Cooked Eggs. 

Place eggs in saucepan with boiling water to cover; 
remove saucepan from fire and let stand covered 5 to 10 min. 

Hard Cooked Eggs. 

Place eggs in boiling water to cover, cook below the boil- 
ing point about 30 min. 

Scrambled Eggs. 

4 eggs Yz c. milk 

1 tsp. salt Yi tsp. pepper 

1 tb. butter ^ tsp. salt 

Add salt, pepper and milk to eggs slightly beaten, melt 
butter in pan, pour in ^^^ mixture ; cook over low flame stir- 
ring constantly until the desired thickness. Serve on or with 
buttered toast. 

Golden-Rod Eggs. 

2 hard cooked eggs 1 c. milk 

1 tb. butter yi tsp. pepper 

1 tb. flour Yi tsp. salt 

4 slices toast 
Make a white sauce of butter, milk, flour and seasoning; 
add the chopped whites of eggs to sauce, pour over hot toast, 
press the yolks through a strainer over the top. Garnish with 
parsley and serve at once. 

Foamy Omelet. 

4 eggs Y-2 tsp. salt 

4 tb. water J^ tsp. pepper 

1 tb. butter 
Separate whites and yolks ; add water to whites and beat 
until stiff. Fold in yolks and seasonings. Add butter to 
omelet pan and heat ; pour in the mixture and cook over a low 
lire until well puffed and browned underneath ; place in oven 
to cook top. When done it is firm and dry when pressed. 
Fold and turn out on platter. 



HOWTOCOOKIT 37 

Chapter VllI 

FISH 

Selection of Fish. 

Fresh fish will be recognized when eyes are full and 
bright; flesh is firm and gills are red. Broiling and baking are 
the best methods for cooking fish. 

Baked Fish. 

Clean, wipe and dry the fish ; dredge with salt, pepper and 
flour, fill with dressing and sew up. Bake fish on its side in 
the pan ; slices of salt pork or bacon may be placed on top i£ 
fish is very dry. When the flour begins to brown, baste with 
fat and boiling water. Bake about 1 hr. The fish is done 
when the flesh separates easily from the bone. Serve with or 
without sauce. 

Fish Dressing. 

1 c. stale bread crumbs or 1 tb. melted butter 
cracker crumbs, water, ^ tsp. salt 

a few drops lemon or 1 ^ tsp. pepper 
tsp. Baker's onion juice 
Mix ingredients, using water enough to moisten. 

Creamed Cod Fish. 

2 c. milk 3 tb. butter 
1 c. salt cod Yi c. flour 

1-16 tsp. pepper 
Make a white sauce with the flour, butter, pepper and 
milk. Tear codfish into small pieces and soak until soft in 
lukewarm water, drain and add to white sauce, reheat and 
serve on hot buttered toast or with boiled potatoes. 

Sauted Fish Cakes. 

Clean fish, sprinkle with salt and pepper and dip in 
granulated corn meal or flour. Dry out slices of fat salt pork 
in frying pan, remove scraps and saute the fish in the fat. 



38 HOWTOCOOKIT 

Cod Fish Balls. 

1 qt. potatoes pared and 1 c. salt fish 
quartered 1 tb. butter 

ys tsp. pepper 
Wash, cook and shred codfish; boil potatoes and mash; 
season with pepper and butter ; drain codfish and add to potato 
mixture. Shape into balls and fry in deep fat. Drain on 
glazed paper. 



Fried or Baked Smelts. 

Clean, wash and dry the smelts. Roll in egg and crumbs 
and fry in deep fat 3 to 5 minutes. 

They may be dipped in milk or melted butter and then in 
flour or fine crumbs and baked. Smelt may be stuffed before 
baking. 



Salmon Loaf. 

1 c. salmon 1 tb. lemon juice 

1 tb. parsley 1/2 to 1 c. crumbs 

>4 tsp. salt ^2 c. milk 

pepper 1 egg 

Mince fish, removing uneatable portions. Mix all ingredi- 
ents. Pack in buttered molds. Steam or bake in a pan of 
water. Turn out and serve with sauce or peas. 



Broiled Fish. 

Clean and broil, season with salt, pepper and butter and 
serve immediately with or without sauce. 

Boiled Fish. 

Wash and clean fish ; tie in cloth ; put in boiling salted 
water to which 1 tb. vinegar has been added. Cook gently, 
allowing 15 min. per lb. Serve with egg sauce. 



HOW TO COOK IT 39 

Scalloped Oysters. 

1 pt. oysters 2 c. bread crumbs 

2 tb. melted butter y^ tsp. salt 

34 tsp. pepper 6 tb. oyster liquor 

Mix salt, pepper and butter with crumbs ; spread the bot- 
tom of a buttered baking dish with crumbs ; put in one-half of 
the oysters, then a layer of crumbs, then the other half of the 
oysters, covering the top with the remaining crumbs. Pour 
over the liquid and dot with butter. Bake in a moderate oven 
20 min. 
Creamed Crab Meat. 

2 c. shredded crab meat 4 tb. flour 

2 c. milk 4 tb. butter 

^2 tsp. salt ys tsp. pepper 

Make a white sauce of seasonings, flour, butter and milk ; 
add the crab meat, reheat and serve on toast or in patty 
shells. Garnish with paprika. 
Oyster Stew. 

1 pt. oysters 2 tb. butter 

2 c. scalded milk 1 tsp. salt 

1-16 tsp. pepper 
Clean and pick over the oysters ; heat oyster liquor to the 
boiling point, strain and add oysters. Cook until oysters are 
plump and curl at the edges. Add scalded milk, butter, pepper 
and salt and serve with oyster crackers. 
Fish Chowder. 

3 lb. cod 1 sliced onion 
2-in. cube fat salt pork 2 tsp. salt 

2 tb. butter 1 qt. potato cubes 

34 tsp. pepper 1 qt. hot milk 

Have the fish skinned. Cut the fish from backbone and 
divide into 2-in. pieces. Put head, backbone and tail in kettle 
with 1 qt. cold water, heat slowly, cook about 30 min. Parboil 
pototoes on cover with cold water for half an hour. Fry onion 
with pork, strain fat into clean kettle. Put in fish and potatoes 
and over them strain the broth from the bones. Cook until 
potatoes are tender; add seasoning, milk and crackers if 
desired. 



40 HOWTOCOOKIT 

Chapter IX 

ICE CREAMS, SHERBETS AND ICES 

Directions for Freezing. 

1. Use 3 parts finely crushed ice to 1 part salt for ice 
cream and sherbet. 

2. Use equal parts ice and salt when packing mousse. 

3. Scald the ice cream freezer thoroughly before using. 

4. Turn the crank slowly and steadily at first to insure 
a smooth mixture. 

5. Crush ice by placing in a strong bag and pounding. 

Vanilla Ice Cream. 

2 c. milk 1 qt. cream 

^ c. sugar 3 tb. Baker's vanilla 

Scald milk ; add sugar ; when cool add whipped cream and 

flavoring; freeze according to general directions for freezing. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 

^ c. milk 54 tb. sugar 

1 qt. cream 1 tsp. Baker's vanilla 

3 oz. chocolate 
Melt chocolate over hot water, add sugar and hot cream 
gradually. Cool, add vanilla. Freeze. 

Coffee Ice Cream. 

1 qt. cream ^ c. sugar 

1 qt. strong coffee 
Heat cream and dissolve sugar in it. Add coffee. Freeze. 

Peach Ice Cream. 

1 qt. cream 3 c. peach 

2 c. sugar 1 tb. lemon jviice 

Scald cream with peach stone in it. Remove stone, add 
sugar. Press peach through sieve. Add lemon juice. Cool 
cream, combine with fruit. Freeze. 



HOVVTOCOOKIT 41 

Banana Ice Cream. 

1 pt. cream 1/^ c. lemon juice 

1 pt. milk 1 c. sugar 

4 bananas spk. salt 

Remove skins and scrape bananas ; then force through a 
sieve; add remaining ingredients and freeze. 

Custard Ice Cream. 

3 c. milk 1 c. sugar 

1 c. cream 2 eggs 

3 tb. flour 1 tb. Baker's vanilla 

Mix flour and sugar; add milk and cook 15 min. in a 
double boiler, stirring often ; add this mixture to the beaten 
eggs and return to the double boiler; cook 3 min., cool, add 
vanilla and fold in whipped cream. Freeze according to gen- 
eral directions for freezing. 

Orange Ice. 

lJ/2 qts. water rind and juice of 3 oranges 

3 c. sugar 

Boil 3 minutes ; cool, add 3/2 c. orange juice and 1 tb. 
lemon juice. Freeze. 

Lremon Ice. 

2 qts. water 2 c. lemon juice 

4 c. sugar 

Boil water and sugar 3 minutes. Cool. Add lemon juice, 
strain and freeze. 

Pineapple Sherbet. 

4 c. water 2 grated pineapple 
lyz c. sugar 1 tb. gelatine (plain) 
] tb. lemon juice ^ c. cold water 

Boil water and sugar 20 min. ; soak gelatine in % c. cold 
water and dissolve in syrup ; add grated pineapple and juice of 
lemon. Freeze according to general directions. 



42 HOWTOCOOKIT 

Coffee Mousse. 

1 c. coffee 1 c. cream 

1 c. milk ^ c. sugar 

1 tb. gelatine 1 tsp. Baker's vanilla 

Soak gelatine in cold water and dissolve in scalded milk ; 
dissolve sugar in boiling coffee, add milk and stir occasionally 
until it begins to thicken. Remove from fire, cool, flavor and 
fold in whipped cream. Pour in mold which has been dipped 
in cold water; spread an oiled paper over the top large enough 
to extend over the edges ; cover closely and pack in equal parts 
ice and salt ; let stand 3 to 6 hrs. To remove from mold, dip in 
hot water for an instant and turn out on a serving dish. 

Note — Fruits, candied ginger, maple, chocolate or caramel 
may be substituted for the coffee to make different flavored 
mousse. 



HOWTOCOOKIT 43 

Chapter X 

MEAT 

Care of Meat. 

When meat comes from the market, it should be taken 
from the paper and put in a dish in a cold place. Wipe meat 
with a clean cloth wrung out in cold water to remove particles 
adhering to the surface. 

BEEF 

Good beef is firm and elastic to the touch and coated with 
fat. The flesh is purplish red when first cut and fat a light 
straw color. Good meat has no disagreeable odor. 

Broiled Steak. 

Wipe and trim a tender steak about 1 in. thick and place 
in a hot broiler ; sear meat on one side and then on the other. 
Cook 4 to 8 minutes, turning often. Place on platter, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, spread with butter and serve. 

Parboiled Steak and Onions. 

Place the steak or chops on a very hot frying pan, cook 
4 to 8 minutes, turning often ; place on a platter, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, spread with butter. 

Broiled Hamburg Cakes. 

1 lb. round steak 1 tgg 

1-16 tsp. pepper ^ tsp. salt 

^ c. bread crumbs 

Chop steak fine, season with salt and pepper and if de- 
sired 1 tsp. chopped onion ; add beaten egg and bread crumbs. 
Shape into small cakes, handling lightly ; broil on oiled broiler 
or parboil in a frying pan. 



44 HOWTOCOOKIT 

Roast Beef. 

Trim, wipe, place on a rack in dripping pan, sprinkle flour, 
rub salt into fat. Have oven very hot at first to sear the out- 
side quickly to prevent escape of juice; then reduce heat. 
Baste every 5 min. with fat which cooks out into the pan, and 
turn the roast over to cook it evenly. 

A sirloin or rib roast weighing 5 lbs. will require about 
one hour, or longer if it is to be well done. A surer rule for 
time of cooking is to allow 15 min. for each inch in thickness, 
or 20 min. if wanted well done. 

Roast Beef Gravy. 

After placing the roast on the platter, drain out the fat 
and put some water in the pan to soak off the browned juice 
and flour. 

For each cup of gravy put 2 tb. of the fat in a saucepan 
and brown 2 tb. of flour in it ; then add one cup of the water 
from the pan. Cook like white sauce. When thickened, sea- 
son as desired with salt and pepper. 

Clarified Fat. 

Cut the fat, suet or flank fat in small pieces, removing skin 
and bits of lean meat. Cover with cold salted water, and leave 
in a cold place for several hours. Drain off the water, and if 
possible soak again and drain. Heat slowly till the fat has 
melted and the scraps are crisp but not brown. Strain and 
cool. Slices of potato or pieces of charcoal cooked in the fat 
before straining will absorb any impurities. 

Pot Roast. 

For pot roast use pieces from the round, chuck or rump. 
Wipe meat with clean, wet cloth, dredge with flour and brown 
on all sides with a small amount of fat in a pan. Surround 
with boiling water, cover closely and boil 5 min. Reduce the 
heat and cook below the boiling point until tender. Season 
with salt and pepper and cook 15 to 20 min. longer. Make a 
gravy from stock in which the meat was cooked. 

Note — If desired, sliced onions, turnips, carrots, celery, 
a few cloves, peppercorns and a bit of bay leaf may be placed 
around the meat after adding the water. 



HOW TO COOK IT 45 

Swiss Steak. 

Select a round or chuck steak; pound in flour on both 
sides with the side of a saucer until the surface is dry ; sprinkle 
with salt and pepper; place in a hot frying pan with onions 
and cook until both sides are brown. Place in a hot buttered 
baking dish ; cover with 1 c. tomato and 1 chopped green pep- 
per. Bake in a moderately hot oven 1 to 1 J/2 hrs. 

Meat Loaf. 

2 lb. chopped beef round, or inexpensive cut. 

Yi lb. salt pork 1 c. soft bread crumbs 

3 onions 2 eggs 

2 peppers Yz tsp. salt 

Chop pork, onions and peppers together; add the bread 
crumbs, salt, meat and slightly beaten ^%'g. Mix thoroughly ; 
shape in a loaf in a well greased baking pan. Pour over 1 can 
tomatoes and bake about 1 hr. in a moderate oven, basting 
occasionally. Thicken the gravy and serve as sauce with the 
loaf. 

Hash. 

Remove skin, gristle and bone from the meat and if very 
fat, discard most of the fat. Chop the meat and add an equal 
quantity of cold boiled chopped potatoes. Season with salt 
and pepper, put into a hot buttered frying pan ; moisten with 
stock, milk or water if dry. Stir until well mixed; spread 
evenly, then place on a part of the range where it may brown 
slowly underneath. Turn and fold on a hot platter; garnish 
with parsley and serve immediately. If the meat is tasteless, 
other seasonings may be added, such as celery salt, Worcester- 
shire sauce and chopped onion, more or less potato according 
to convenience. 

Meat Pie. 

Cut left-over cooked beef or veal into inch cubes ; thicken 
gravy with flour, season with salt and pepper; place meat 
and gravy in a buttered baking dish. Have mixture hot and 
cover with baking powder biscuit dough, pie crust or mashed 
potato. Bake in a hot oven until brown. 



46 HOWTOCOOKIT 

Cream Dried Beef. 

y^ lb. dried beef 2 c. white sauce 

Tear beef into small pieces, cover with cold water and 

heat slowly to the boiling point; drain and add to the white 

sauce. If desired, a beaten &gg may be stirred into the mixture 

as it is removed from the fire. 

VEAL 
Veal is best in the spring. The flesh is pinkish in color 
and the fat is white. Veal requires thorough cooking. 

Veal Cutlets. 

Wipe meat and cut into pieces for serving; sprinkle with 
salt and pepper; cover with bread crumbs, then dip into beaten 
egg; then roll again in crumbs. Saute until well browned on 
each side, drain oflF the fat, add hot water, cover closely and 
continue cooking slowly until thoroughly cooked and tender. 

Veal Loaf. 

Follow directions for Meat Loaf, substituting veal for 
other meat. Season with sage and nutmeg. 

Veal Croquettes. 

2 c. cooked veal % tsp. salt 

lJ/2 c. thick white sauce ^ tsp. pepper 

few drops onion juice few drops lemon juice 

Chop veal very fine; add seasoning; add to white sauce 
and spread on plate to cool ; when cold shape into pyramids, 
cones or balls ; roll in bread crumbs and fry in deep fat. Drain 
on brown paper and serve hot, 

LAMB 
Roast Lamb or Mutton. 

A leg of lamb or mutton is best for roasting. Wipe the 
surface with a cloth wrung out of cold water, sprinkle with 
flour, salt and pepper; place in a roasting pan and cook in a 
very hot oven until well browned ; then reduce the heat and 
cook in a slow oven, allowing 25 min. to a pound. If the pan 
is uncovered, baste occasionally. Serve hot with or without 
mint sauce. 



HOWTOCOOKIT 47 

Lamb Stew with Dumplings. 

Wipe and cut into small pieces 2 lbs. of lamb from the 
forequarter. Put in a saucepan, cover with boiling water 
and cook slowly until tender (about 2 hrs.) One-half hour be- 
fore the lamb is cooked, add one-half cup chopped carrots and 
one-half cup turnips and one onion cut in small pieces. Ten 
minutes later add 3 c. parboiled potatoes cut in small pieces. 
Thicken with 3 tb. flour diluted with cold water enough to 
make a smooth paste. 

Dumplings. 

1^ c. flour jA tsp. salt 

3 tsp. baking powder 1 tsp. butter 

J/2 c. milk 
Mix and sift dry ingredients. Work in butter and mix 
with a knife until a soft dough is formed. Drop into boiling 
stew by spoonsful, dipping the spoon into the stew each time 
before taking up the dough. Cover closely and steam 10 to 
15 min. 

PORK 

The flesh is light red and the fat white. Pork is more 
easily diseased than any other kind of meat, and should be 
thoroughly cooked and used only in cold weather. 

Roast Pork. 

The loin and ham are suitable for roasting. Wipe and 
trim the meat; sprinkle with flour, salt and pepper. Cook 
until well browned in a very hot oven ; reduce the heat and 
cook until the meat is thoroughly tender. A little water may 
be added to the bottom of the pan during roasting, unless a 
covered pan is used. The meat should be basted occasionally. 

Broiled Bacon. 

Have bacon sliced very thin ; remove rind and place slices 
on a wire broiler. Place the broiler over a dripping pan and 
place in hot broiling oven. 



48 HOWTOCOOKIT 

Liver and Bacon. 

Pour boiling water over liver and let stand 5 min. ; drain 
and remove the tough vein and thin membrane; sprinkle with 
salt and pepper and roll in flour. Cook in hot bacon fat in 
frying pan ; serve with broiled bacon. 

Boiled Ham. 

Soak over night in enough cold water to cover. Wash, 
trim off hard skin near bone, cover with water, heat to the 
boiling point and cook slowly until tender. Allow about 4 hrs. 
for a 12-lb. ham. Remove from kettle when ham is cool; 
remove skin and outside fat, sprinkle with brown sugar, stick 
in cloves one inch apart and bake one hour in a slow oven. 

Ham Souffle. 

iy2 c. milk 1 tb. butter 

2 tb. flour 3^ tsp. salt 

1 c. bread crumbs 3^ tsp. pepper 

1 c. chopped cooked ham 2 eggs 

1 tb. finely chopped parsley 

Make a sauce of the milk, flour, butter, salt and pepper, 
add the crumbs and meat, beaten yolks and parsley ; fold in the 
beaten whites and bake in a buttered dish 30 min. in a mod- 
erate oven. Serve immediately. 

CHICKEN 

To Dress and Clean a Chicken. 

Remove hairs by holding over a flame until all parts are 
exposed to the flame ; this is called singeing. Remove pin 
feathers. Tendons may be drawn from the legs before the 
feet are taken off if desired. To do this bend back the joint at 
the lower end of the drum stick, cut the skin beneath the joint 
and insert a skewer below the tendons one at a time, drawing 
them out. Cut off the head and feet. Scrub in warm water 
to which 1 tsp. of borax has been added. Rinse in several 
waters. With a sharp knife cut the skin around the vent to 
the breast bone ; make another incision at the back of the 
neck. Fold over the skin and loosen the windpipe, gullet and 



HOWTOCOOKIT 49 

crop. Just above the vent gradually work the entrails loose 
from the insides, take hold of the gizzard and draw out the 
entrails. Do not break the gall-gladder. Remove the lungs 
and kidneys. The gizzard, liver and heart are the giblets ; 
these should be cleaned and used. Cut the gizzard to the inner 
lining. Fold back from the small sack inside, remove the 
gall-bladder and tissue from the liver, press the blood from the 
heart. Wash the giblets, stew them and serve either chopped 
or whole and use as either dressing or gravy. 

Roast Chicken. 

A young and plump chicken should be selected. Dress 
and clean as directed. Stuff with dressing, sew the skin to- 
gether, tie wings and legs close to the body, rub with salt and 
spread with butter and flour creamed together. Place in a 
roasting pan with the breast downward, brown in hot oven, 
reduce the heat, add a little water to the pan, turn the chicken 
over and continue cooking until the breast meat is tender. 
Baste with liquid in the pan ; if covered after browning it will 
require less basting. Make gravy, following directions for 
Roast Beef gravy. 

Stewed Chicken. 

Fowl may be used instead of chicken for stewing. Dress 
and clean chicken, cut the legs and wings from the body, 
disjoint the legs, separate the breast from the back by cutting 
through the width at the joint and disjointing the collarbone, 
and cut off the neck as close to the back as possible. Cook in 
boiling water one minute and simmer until tender, adding 
salt and pepper when nearly done. If desired pieces may be 
rolled in flour, browned on both sides before or after stewing. 
Dumplings may be cooked in the broth. When dumplings 
are done, gravy may be made from the broth. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Follow the directions for veal croquettes, substituting 
2 c. chopped chicken for veal. 



50 HOW TO COOK IT 

Chapter XI 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING PASTRY 

1. It is most important to use good pastry flour. 
3. Lard makes a light colored, tender crust. 

3. Vegetable fat gives a pastry slightly darker but tender. 

4. Clarified beef suet alone or combined with butter 
gives a tender well-flavored crust and may be used for any 
paste except pufT. 

5. Butter should be used for pufT paste. 

6. Ingredients and utensils must be as cold as possible. 

7. No more water than is absolutely necessary should 
be used in the paste. 

8. One-half tsp. baking powder added to 2 cups flour 
gives lightness but is not essential. 

9. Paste to be digestible should be light, flaky and tender. 

Pie Crust. 

1 c. flour 3 tb. lard or other fat 

J4 tsp. salt ^ tsp. baking powder 

cold water 
Mix dry ingredients, cut in shortening with knife or rub 
in with fingers. Add water a little at a time, allowing the 
flour to absorb the water without pressure. The mixture 
should be just moist enough to stick together. Place dough 
on a slightly floured board, turn it over and roll it with light 
strokes to make it a little larger tlian the pan in which it is to 
be baked. Line an unoiled pan with the pie crust mixture. 
In a single crust press the dough over the edge of the pan 
and fold over, shape with the fingers or mark with a fork. 
Prick a few holes in the bottom to prevent large bubbles 
from forming. To cover a pie moisten the edge of the lower 
crust and lay on an upper crust which has been perforated to 
allow the steam to escape. Press the edges lightly together 
and bake in a hot oven. 



HOWTOCOOKIT 51 

Flaky Pastry. 

3 c. flour y^ c. washed butter 

1 tsp. salt ^ to ^ c. ice water 

54 c. shortening 
Sift flour and salt, work shortening into flour with tips of 
fingers, moisten with cold water, pat and roll as for plain 
paste. Dot with small bits of butter, using one-third the quan- 
tity, dredge with flour, fold toward center, then double, mak- 
ing four layers, pat and roll out. Repeat until butter is used, 
roll, shape, chill and bake in hot oven. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

lYz c. strained pumpkin 1 tsp. cinnamon 

^ c. sugar 1 tsp. ginger 

2 eggs ^ tsp. salt 

2 tb. molasses 2 c. scalded milk 

Mix sugar and spices with pumpkin, add milk to eggs 

slightly beaten, line pie plate with pie crust, fill with pumpkin 

mixture and bake in a hot oven 20 min. 

Lemon Sponge Pie. 

2 tb. butter 2 tb. flour 

1 c. sugar 2 eggs 

1 c. milk 2 small lemons (juice and 

grated rind) 
Cream butter, sugar and flour, add lemon juice and rind, 
well beaten eg^ yolks and milk. Fold in stifly beaten whites, 
pour into pie plate lined with crust and bake 30 min. 

Cocoanut Custard. 

2 eggs % tsp. salt 

% c. sugar 2 c. scalded milk 

y^ c. cocoanut few grains nutmeg 

Beat the eggs slightly, add sugar, salt and milk and cook 
in a double boiler until it coats the spoon. Line a pan with 
the pie crust, bake the crust in hot oven, pour in the filling, 
add nutmeg and sprinkle cocoanut over the top, reduce the 
temperature of the oven to cook the custard and finish baking 
the crust. 



53 HOW TO COOK IT 

Lemon Meringue. 

1 c. sugar 2 c. boiling water 

Yi c, flour 2 t^^ yolks 

Yi. tsp. salt ),\ c. lemon juice 

1 tsp. butter grated rind of 1 lemon 
Mix flour, sugar, and blend with hot water; cook 5 min. 

over the fire, stirring constantly ; place in a double boiler, add 
butter and beaten ^^'g yolk. Cook 2 min. ; remove from fire 
and add strained lemon juice and grated rind. Line pan with 
pie crust and bake. Fill with lemon filling and cover with 
meringue ; bake in a slow oven until delicately browned. 

Meringue. 

2 t.%g whites 2 tb. powdered sugar 
Beat whites until light ; add sugar gradually and continue 

beating. Pile the mixture roughly on pie ; bake in a slow oven 
until golden brown. Meringue may be made by floating it 
on hot water and browned to place on pie or pudding. 

Chocolate Cream Pie. 

2 c. milk 2 tb. sugar 

1 tb. corn starch 34 tsp. salt 

2 eggs Yz tsp. Baker's vanilla 

\Yz sqs. melted chocolate 
Cook cornstarch, add milk until thick, add yolks of eggs 
well beaten, sugar and salt and let cook a few minutes, add 
flavoring. Use ^gg whites for meringue. Line a pie plate, 
bake crust, fill with chocolate cream, pile with meringue and 
bake until light brown in a slow oven. 



Blueberry Pie. 

2>4 c. berries Y^ tsp. salt 

Yz c. sugar 1 tb. flour 

Line a deep pie plate vvith crust, fill with berries dredged 
with flour, sprinkle with sugar and salt, cover with crust, bake 
in a moderate oven 45 to 50 min. 



HOWTOCOOKIT 53 

Apple Pie. 

5 sour apples ^ tsp. cinnamon 

Yz c. sugar or more 1 tsp, butter 

Line a pie pan with crust, and fill with pared, cored and 
sliced apples, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon, dot with 
butter, moisten edges of lower crust and cover with perforated 
upper crust. Press the edges together and bake in a moderate- 
ly hot oven 40 min. Lard or milk may be brushed over the 
top before baking. 

Rhubarb Pie. 

1 c. sugar \y2 tb. flour 

2 c. rhubarb Y^ tsp. salt 
1 tsp. lemon juice 1 ^%% 

Wash rhubarb and cut without peeling into ^ in. pieces ; 
mix sugar, flour, salt, slightly beaten t^%, lemon juice and 
add the rhubarb. Bake between two crusts in a moderately 
hot oven 30 min. 



Prime Pie. 

Yi. lb. prunes 2 tb. lemon juice 

Y2 c. sugar 2 tsp. butter 

Y2 tb. flour 
Wash prunes, soak in enough cold water to cover them, 
cook in same water until soft; remove stones and mix with 
sugar and lemon juice, add IJ^ tb. prune juice. Line pie plate 
with crust, cover with prunes, pour over prune juice, dot with 
butter, sprinkle with flour, put on upper crust and bake in 
a moderate oven 25 min. 

Peach Pie. 

Remove skins by dipping peaches in boiling water 1 min- 
ute. Cut peaches, cook until soft in enough water to prevent 
burning, sweeten to taste, cool and fill baked pie crust. Cover 
with sweetened flavored whipped cream. 



54 HOWTOCOOKIT 

Cranberry Pie. 

2 c. cranberries 1. c. sugar 

^ c. water 
Cook cranberries, water and sugar 10 min., cool, bake in 
one crust with a rim and strips across the top. 



HOW TO COOK IT 55 

Chapter XII 

PUDDINGS 

Soft Custard. 

2 c. scalded milk 34 c. sugar 

2 eggs }i tsp. salt 

3^ tsp. Baker's vanilla 

Beat yolks slightly, mixed with sugar and salt, then 
slowly add scalded milk, stirring constantly. Cook over water 
just below the boiling point until it coats the spoon. Add 
Baker's flavoring when cool. Custard cooked over boiling 
water will curdle ; if this happens, place in a pan of cold wate 
and beat with a Dover Egg Beater. 
Baked Custard. 

3 c. scalded milk % c. sugar 
3 eggs }i tsp. salt 

yi tsp. Baker's vanilla 
Beat yolks slightly, mix with the sugar and salt, add the 
hot milk slowly, add flavoring and stir until sugar is dissolved. 
Pour into buttered molds and set in a pan of hot water. Bake 
in a slow oven until firm. The test for a baked custard is to 
put a silver knife into the mixture and if it comes out clean 
the custard may be taken from the oven. 

Caramel Custard. 

Follow the recipe for baked custard, when cool turn from 
the molds and serve with Caramel Sauce, 

Floating Island. 

Follow soft custard recipe, reserving the whites. Beat 
whites stiffly and fold into mixture or pile on top and bake in 
a slow oven until meringue is golden brown. 



56 HOWTOCOOKIT 

Chocolate Cream Pudding. 

3 c. milk 54 tsp. salt 

4 tb. corn starch 4 tb. sugar 

1^ tb. cocoa or ^ oz. choc. Yi tsp. Baker's vanilla 
Mix corn starch, sugar and cocoa in ^4 c. cold milk, pour 
the remaining scalded milk, pour slowly on the corn starch 
mixture ; return to double boiler, stir constantly until thick, 
then cover and cook without stirring for 20 min. ; add salt and 
Baker's vanilla and serve with whipped cream. 

Coffee Cream Pudding. 

Follow recipe for chocolate cream, substituting 1 c. hot 
coffee for 1 c. milk. 

Orange Pudding. 

3 c. scalded milk 3 eggs 

34 c. cornstarch 1 tsp. Baker's vanilla 

]A, tsp. salt 4 tb. powdered sugar 

^ c. sugar 4 oranges 

Thoroughly mix the cornstarch, granulated sugar and 
salt together, and add the hot milk gradually, stirring con- 
stantly. Pour into double boiler and stir until it thickens and 
cook covered 20 min. and pour corn starch over slightly beaten 
yolks and return to double boiler and cook 2 min. stirring con- 
tinually. Add Baker's flavoring and pour over sliced oranges. 
Beat whites, fold in powdered sugar and pile on top. Bake 
in a moderate oven until meringue is delicately browned. 

Prune Whip. 

y2 lb. prunes ^ tb. lemon juice 

Yi, c. sugar 4 ^^% whites 

Wash and pick over prunes, soak in cold water and cook 
in same water until soft. Remove stones and chop prunes or 
press through a strainer and cook 5 min. Fold prune mixture 
and lemon juice into stiffly beaten whites, pile lightly into a 
buttered pudding pan and bake 20 min. in a slow oven. Serve 
cold with cream or custard sauce, or both. 



HOW TO COOK IT 57 

Brown Betty. 

2 c. bread crumbs 2 tb. sugar 

2 c. sliced apples ^ tsp. cinnamon 

y2 tb. butter i^ c. hot water 

Line the bottom of a buttered baking dish with a layer of 
apple, sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar, dot with butter, 
then add more crumbs and apples until the dish is filled, pour 
over the water and bake in a moderate oven 20 min. Serve 
with hard sauce. 



Delmonico Pudding. 

1 c. stale bread Vi tb. butter 

2 c. hot milk 54 c. cocoanut 
^ c. sugar 1 &%^ 

34 tsp. salt 

Break the bread into small pieces, add milk and pour into 
buttered baking dish. Mix &%^, sugar, salt and flavoring and 
add to the first mixture. Dot the top with butter and sprinkle 
with cocoanut, bake in a slow oven. Jelly or raisins may be 
added in place of cocoanut. 

Chocolate Bread Pudding. 

Follow recipe for Delmonico pudding, adding y^ oz. of un- 
sweetened chocolate or 2 tb. cocoa and flavor with Baker's 
vanilla. If chocolate is used melt and mix with part of sugar 
and enough hot milk to thin the mixture. Add to bread and 
milk. If cocoa is used mix it with sugar. 

Baked Rice Pudding. 

2c. cooked rice Yz c. seeded raisins 

1 c. scalded milk 34 c. sugar 

1 ^^Z H tsp. salt 

few grains nutmeg 

Add scalded milk to slightly beaten o^g'g. Mix ingredients 
and bake in a buttered pudding dish until thickened and light 
brown. Serve with whipped cream on vanilla sauce. 



58 HOWTOCOOKIT 

Tapioca Cream Pudding. 

54 c. tapioca 2 eggs 

2 c. milk 14 tsp. salt 

^2 c. sugar Yj tsp. Baker's vanilla 

Pearl tapioca should be soaked in sufficient cold water to 
cover for at least an hour, preferably over night. Minute 
tapioca needs no soaking. Add milk to tapioca and cook in 
double boiler until transparent. Mix egg yolks, salt and 
sugar, stir the hot mixture into them, return to double boiler 
and cook 5 min. or until it thickens slightly. Remove from 
fire, add flavoring and stiffly beaten whites. Cool and serve. 
Sliced peaches, pineapple or bananas may be added. 

Apple Tapioca. 

3^ c. tapioca 3^ tsp. salt 

2 c. boiling water J^ c. sugar 
1 tb. lemon juice 6 apples 

}^ tsp. cinnamon 
Pour boiling water over tapioca, add salt and cook in a 
double boiler until transparent. Pare and slice apples into 
baking dish ; sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and add lemon 
juice. Pour cooked tapioca over apples and bake in a moder- 
ate oven about 20 min. or until apples are soft. Serve with 
sugar and cream. Apricots may be substituted for apples. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR USE OF GELATINE 

1. It should be soaked in cold water. 

2. It should be dissolved in hot liquid. 

3. It should never be allowed to boil. 

4. It should be kept in a cool place until firm. 

Lemon Grelatine. 

3 tb. gelatine (plain) 3 c, hot water 
Yz c. cold water 1 c. sugar 

juice and grated rind of 1 large lemon 



HOW TO COOK IT S9 

Soak gelatine in cold water until soft, boil hot water and 
sugar to make a syrup. Remove from fire, add gelatine and 
lemon juice. Chill until firm and serve with cream or Baker's 
whipped marshmallow. 

Fruit Gelatine. 

Follow the directions for lemon gelatine, adding fresh or 
cooked fruits. Hot fruit juice may be substituted for part of 
the hot water. 

Coffee Gelatine. 

Follow directions for lemon gelatine, substituting 1 c. 
strong coffee for part of the hot water and omit the lemon 
juice. 

Whipped Raspberry Gelatine. 

1 pkg. Raspberry Gelatine 
Follow directions for making gelatine ; when partly 
chilled beat with a Dover Egg Beater until stiff enough to hold 
its shape; let stand until firm. 

Snow Pudding. 

1 tb. gelatine (plain) J4 c- cold water 

^ c. boiling water 1 c. sugar 

54 c. lemon juice 3 egg whites 

Soak gelatine in cold water, boil sugar and hot water to 
make a syrup, remove from fire and add lemon juice. Stir 
occasionally until it begins to thicken, then beat with Dover 
egg beater until it holds its shape. Fold in the beaten whites 
and let stand until firm. Serve with custard sauce to which 
the grated rind of one lemon has been added. 

Spanish Cream. 

1 tb. gelatine j/g tsp. salt 
y3 c. sugar 2 c. milk 

2 eggs 1 tsp. Baker's vanilla 
Scald the milk, add gelatine and sugar, cook until it coats 

the spoon, pour slowly on slightly beaten egg yolks, return 
to double boiler and cook, stirring constantly until it thickens ; 
remove from fire, add salt and flavoring. Fold in stiffly beaten 
egg whites, chill and serve with cream. 



60 HOW TO COOK IT 

Macaroon Pudding. 

Follow recipe for Spanish Cream and add ^ c. macaroon 
crumbs. 

Steamed Pudding. 

2 c. flour Yz tsp. salt 

3 tsp. baking powder 1 c. milk 

1 ^^^ y^ c. melted butter 

1 c. figs 1 c. dates 

Mix sugar, milk, eggs and melted butter and add to mixed 
and sifted dry ingredients ; add fruit and fill covered buttered 
molds Yz full and steam 2 hrs. Serve with hard sauce or cream. 



HOWTOCOOKIT 61 

Chapter XIII 

SALADS — SALAD DRESSINGS 

RULES FOR MAKING SALAD 

1, All materials should be cold. 

2. The ingredients should be prepared and marinated 
before combining them in a salad. 

3, Salad plants should be crisp and thoroughly washed. 

4. Salads should be attractive but simple. 

Kinds of Salad Plants. 

Lettuce is the most commonly used salad plant. It is 
usually a garnish for the salad mixture but may be served 
alone, with Russian, French or Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Chicory, Endive, Romaine and Watercress are salad 
plants and usually served with French Dressing. 

To marinate — means to soak in a French dressing. 

Kinds of Salads. 

1. Meat (left-over meats, as) ham, chicken, veal may be 
combined with celery, nuts, etc., to make a salad. 

2. Fish — crab meat, tunafish, lobster, salmon. 

3. Fruit — grapefruit, oranges, bananas, pineapple, apples, 
cherries, strawberries, grapes, etc., may be combined in salads. 

4. Vegetables — cold cooked vegetables make appetizing 
salads; cucumbers, tomatoes, etc., may also be used in salads. 

Chicken Salad. 

2 c. chopped chicken }i tsp. salt 

2 c. chopped celery }i c. chopped green pepper 

(if desired) 

Marinate chicken and celery, drain, add salt, mix with 
mayonnaise, add green pepper, pile on lettuce leaves and 
garnish with slices of hard-cooked egg, cherries, olives, pimen- 
toes or strips of green pepper. 



63 HOW TO COOK IT 

Ham and Celery Salad. 

Follow directions for chicken salad, substituting 2 c. 
chopped ham for chicken, omitting the salt. 

Crab Meat Salad. 

2 c. crab meat % c. chopped olives 

Marinate with French dressing, mix with mayonnaise 

dressing and serve on lettuce. Garnish with pimento. 



Lobster Salad. 

Remove lobster meat from shells, marinate with French 
dressing, cut into cubes, drain and mix with mayonnaise 
dressing, arrange in nests of lettuce leaves, put a spoonful of 
mayonnaise on top and garnish with lobster claws. 

Salmon Salad. 

Follow the recipe for chicken salad. Garnish with hard- 
cooked eggs. 

Stuffed Egg Salad. 

Cut six hard-boiled eggs in halves, remove yolks and 
mash; mix with celery and enough mayonnaise to moisten; 
refill whites, arrange on lettuce and sprinkle with paprika. 

Cheese, Pear and Green Pepper Salad. 

Arrange half pears which have been marinated on a bed 
of lettuce ; press cream cheese through a sieve over the top 
and garnish with peppers. 

Alberta Salad. 

Marinate pineapple and arrange slices on bed of lettuce; 
mix cream cheese, broken walnut meats and enough mayon- 
naise to form soft balls ; roll in grated walnut meats, place on 
pineapple and garnish with strips of pimento. Serve with 
mayonnaise or fruit salad dressing. 



HOWTOCOOKIT 63 

Waldorf Salad. 

Cut apples into ^ inch cubes and add chopped celery and 
marinate ; add nuts and mix with mayonnaise. The apple 
shells may be refilled, or pile on bed of lettuce leaves; serve 
with mayonnaise or fruit salad dressing, and garnish with 
cherries. 

Fruit Salad. 

Any combination of fruit in equal parts may be used. 
The fruits should be cut, marinated and served with whipped 
cream or Fruit Salad Dressing. 

Tomato Gelatine Salad. 

2 c. hot strained tomato IJ^ tb. gelatine 

}4 tsp. salt 54 tsp. sugar 

% c. cold water 
Soak gelatine in cold water, add hot tomato and seasoning. 

Pour into small cups, chill and serve on lettuce with boiled or 

mayonnaise dressing. Left-over vegetables may be added to 

this salad. 

Potato and Egg Salad. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in cubes, marinate, drain, add 
chopped onions and celery if desired, sprinkle with salt, add 
chopped hard-cooked eggs, mix with boiled dressing and serve 
on lettuce. Eggs may be used as a garnish. 

Potato, Apple and Nut Salad. 

Cut apple and cold boiled potato into cubes, marinate, mix 
with mayonnaise or boiled dressing, add nuts and serve on 
lettuce. Egg or pimento may be used to garnish. 

French Dressing. 

54 c. oil Yz tsp. salt 

% c. vinegar % tsp. pepper 

Mix salt, pepper, and enough paprika to color the dressing, 

with the oil and vinegar. Beat until well mixed. Lemon juice 

may be substituted for one-half the vinegar. 



64 HOWTOCOOKIT 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

1 tsp. salt 1 tsp. paprika 

1 tsp. mustard 2 egg yolks 

1 tsp. powdered sugar 2 tb. lemon juice 

2 tb. vinegar 1 c. oil 

Mix dry ingredients, add egg yolks and when well blended 
add 3^ tsp. vinegar, add oil drop by drop until one-fourth the 
quantity has been added ; stir constantly as mixture thickens ; 
thin with vinegar or lemon juice, and continue alternating oil 
and vinegar until all is used. 



Fruit Salad Dressing. 

1 c. whipped cream 34 c. mayonnaise dressing 

Mix together and serve at once. 



Russian Dressing. 

1 tb. chopped pimento 2 tb. chopped olives 

34 c. Chili sauce 1 tsp. chopped chives 

3^2 c. mayonnaise 
Mix ingredients and serve on hearts of lettuce or with 
other salads. 



Boiled Dressing. 

2 tb. butter 1 tsp. salt 

% c. flour 3 tb. sugar 

1 c. milk 1 tsp. mustard 

Yz c. vinegar 1 egg 

3^ tsp. pepper 

Make white sauce of butter, flour and milk ; mix dry ingre- 
dients and add to slightly beaten egg and add one-half the 
vinegar. Pour white sauce over the egg mixture and return 
to double boiler, stirring constantly until thick enough to 
separate when the spoon is drawn through the center ; add the 
remaining vinegar slowly. 



HOWTOCOOKIT frs 

Chapter XIV 

SANDWICHES — SANDWICH FILLING 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR SANDWICH MAKING 

1. Bread should be 24 hrs. old and should be cut in thin 
even slices. 

2. Butter should be creamed. 

3. For dainty sandwiches remove crusts and cut in 
fancy shapes. 

4. To keep sandwiches moist wrap in oil paper or cover 
with a damp cloth. 

5. Sandwiches containing lettuce or green vegetables 
should be put together just before serving. 



Sandwich Fillings. 

1. Cold meat sliced. 

2. Minced meat mixed with salad dressing. 

3. Bacon, lettuce, tomato and salad dresing. 

4. Lettuce with mayonnaise or Russian dressing. 

5. Lettuce with cucumbers and dressing. 

6. Hard-cooked eggs, lettuce and dressing. 

7. Sliced onion with French dressing. 

8. Sliced cheese and mustard. 

9. Cream cheese with nuts, pimentoes, olives or dates. 

10. Peanut butter, with salad dressing or jelly. 

11. Chopped prunes and figs. 

12. Date and Nut. 

13. Raisin and nut. 

14. Marmalade, jam or jelly and nut. 



66 HOW TO COOK IT 





Chapter 


XV 






SAUCES 




White Sauce 


Thin 


Medium 


Thick 


Butter 


1 tb. 


3 tb. 


3>4 tb. 


Flour 


1 tb. 


2 tb. 


4 tb. 


Milk 


1 c. 


1 c. 


1 c. 


Salt 


Va tb. 


'A tb. 


K tb. 


Pepper 


f. g. 


f.g. 


f. g. 



Mix dry ingredients, melt butter in a saucepan, remove 
from fire and add dry ingredients, stir until all lumps disap- 
pear and add cold milk and return to fire. Cook five minutes, 
stirring constantly. 

Drawn Butter Sauce. 

3 tb. butter 54 tsp. salt 

1 tb. flour ^ c. boiling water 

Yz tb. chopped parsley 1 tb. lemon juice 

Melt butter, mix with flour and salt, add boiling water, 
cook until smooth and serve hot. 

Hollandaise Sauce. 

4 tb. butter ^ tsp. salt 

1 ^^'g yolk 1-16 tsp. pepper 

1 tb. lemon juice ^ c. boiling water 

Cream the butter, add ^g% yolk and beat well, then add 
lemon juice, salt and pepper, just before serving add boiling 
water. Cook in double boiler until as thick as custard. Serve 
at once. 

Mint Sauce. 

1 bunch mint leaves y% c. sugar 

Ya, c. vinegar y^, tsp. salt 

Wash and chop mint fine, heat vinegar but do not boil it. 

Dissolve sugar and salt and serve at once. 



HOWTOCOOKIT 67 

Tomato Sauce. 

1^ c. tomato Yz tsp. salt 

2^ tb. butter 2^ tb. flour 

^ tsp. pepper 1 tsp. chopped onion 

Cook tomato and onion 3 min., cream the butter, salt and 
pepper together. Strain tomato and add it to the mixtuf-e 
gradually, stirring until smooth. Cook 5 min., stirring con- 
stantly. 



Egg Sauce. 

Chop yolks and whites of two hard cooked eggs. Add to 
medium white sauce and serve at once. 



Tartar Sauce. 

Use mayonnaise dressing recipe and add to it J4 c. chop- 
ped pickles. 

Cheese Sauce. 

2 tb. butter J4 c. flour 

y^ tsp. salt Yz c. cheese 

2 c. milk >^ tsp. paprika 

Make a white sauce and add the cheese. 



Orange or Lemon Sauce. 

y^ c. sugar 1 c. boiling water 

1 tb. butter 2 tb. flour 

juice of Yi lemon or 1 orange 

Mix flour and sugar and hot liquid, place over fire and 
stir sauce until it boils, then simmer for 15 min. Add other 
mgredients and serve. 

Vanilla Sauce. 

Follow directions for lemon sauce, substituting 1 tsp. 
Baker's vanilla for lemon juice. 



68 HOWTOCOOKIT 

Foamy Sauce. 

23^ tb. butter 3 tb. milk 

2 eggs 1 tsp. Baker's flavoring 

1 c. powdered sugar 
Cream the butter, add the sugar and eggs well beaten ; 
add the milk and beat over hot water until foamy, add flavor- 
ing and serve at once. 

Hard Sauce. 

54 c. butter 2 c. powdered sifted sugar 

13/2 tsp. Baker's vanilla, or y^. tsp. lemon and 1 tsp. vanilla. 
Cream the butter, add sugar gradually and flavor. 

Caramel Sauce. 

1 c. sugar Ya, c. boiling water 

Melt sugar in a saucepan, stirring constantly until golden 

brown ; add the water and cook until a syrup is formed. 



Custard Sauce. 

2 c. scalded milk ^ c. sugar 

2 eggs >^ tsp. salt 

Yi, c. milk juice and grated rind of 1 

lemon 

Beat eggs slightly, add sugar and salt, stir constantly, 
adding hot milk gradually ; cook in double boiler ; continue 
stirring until mixture thickens and coats the spoon ; strain, 
chill and add flavoring. In cooking do not allow water in 
bottom of double boiler to boil, as this curdles the custard. 
If curdled, beat with Dover Egg Beater. 



Whipped Cream Sauce. 

1 c. thick cream Yz c. powdered sugar 

Y2 tsp. Baker's vanilla 

Beat cream until stiff with Dover Egg Beater, add sugar 
and flavoring. 



HOWTOCOOKIT 69 

Chocolate Sauce. 

1 sq. chocolate J^ c. sugar 

Yi c. water 1 tb. corn starch 

Yi c. milk spk. salt 

1 tb. Baker's vanilla 
Cook sugar, chocolate, corn starch and water ; add other 
ingredi^ents ; cook in double boiler 15 min. 

Chocolate Marshmallow Sauce. 

Yz c. sugar 1 sq. chocolate 

Yz c. milk 2 tb. butter 

2 tb. marshmallow Y^ tsp. Baker's vanilla 
Cook sugar, chocolate and milk until it boils ; boil 3 min. ; 

remove from fire, add butter, marshmallow, vanilla. Beat 
until well mixed and serve warm. 

Cranberry Sauce. 

1 qt. cranberries 2 c. sugar 

\Y2 c. boiling water 

Pick over and wash berries, cover with hot water and 
boil 10 min. Add sugar and stir until dissolved. Cool and 
serve. 

Apple Sauce. 

10 sour apples ^ c. sugar 

1 c. water Yi tsp. cinnamon 

Wash, pare and quarter and core apples. Cover with 

cold water and cook in a covered saucepan until soft. Press 

through strainer, add sugar and spice. 

Rhubarb Sauce. 

Wash and cut rhubarb into 1-inch pieces. To 1 c. of rhu- 
barb add ^ c. sugar. 

Prune Sauce. 

Wash and soak prunes over night ; cook in the water the 
prunes soaked in ; add sliced lemon peel and allow to simmer 
until soft. Serve whole or press through a strainer. To the 
juice add ^ c. sugar and cook to form a syrup. 

Apricot Sauce. 

Follow directions for making prune sauce. 



7p HOWTOCOOKIT 

Chapter XVI 

SOUPS 

There are two classes of soups : — 

Stock Soup — Which is prepared by cooking meat and 
bone in water to draw the juice and flavor; stock should not 
be cleared, for it removes the nourishing part. 

Cream Soups — Are made by adding cooked, strained veg- 
etable pulp to thin white sauce ; corn, peas, beans, potatoes, 
celery, tomatoes are used. Left-over vegetables may be util- 
ized in either stock or cream soups. 

Brown Soup Stock. 

2 lbs. meat and bone 3^ c. diced carrots 

3^ qts. cold water Yz c. diced celery 

1 onion (diced) ^ c. diced turnip 

1 sprig parsley 1 tb. salt 

Yz tsp. pepper 
The bone should be sawed into 2-in. lengths and split; cut 
meat into 1-inch cubes. Brown one-third of the meat in a 
little fat in the frying pan. Meat and bone should be soaked 
1 hr. and cook in the same water below the boiling point 
in a covered kettle 4 to 5 hrs. Vegetables and seasonings 
should be added 1 hr. before removing from fire. Strain, and 
when cool remove fat and use stock in making different kinds 
of soup. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Follow directions for brown soup stock, adding as much 
vegetable as desired. Do not strain. 

Bouillon. 

6 c. soup stock 1 t%% white 

Add slightly beaten it%^ white to the stock, heat to the 
boiling point, stirring constantly. Boil 5 min. without stir- 
ring, then simmer 10 min. Strain through a sieve and then 
through cheese cloth. Reheat and serve. 



HOW TO COOK IT 



Split Pea Soup. 

2 c. dried split peas 
Yi c. chopped celery 
2 tb. flour 
Yi. tsp. salt 



1 onion 

2 qts. cold water 
4 tb. butter 

y% tsp. pepper 



Pick over the peas, soak over night and drain, add cold 
water, celery and onion, simmer for 3 hrs. or until soft. Rub 
through a sieve, add melted butter, mix with flour and sea- 
soning; serve at once. 



Clear Tomato Soup. 

6 c. stewed strained tomato 4 c. soup stock 

1 tsp. sugar Yi tsp. salt 

Yz tsp. pepper 1 tb. onion 

Add hot soup stock to tomato and seasoning and serve 

at once. 



Cream of Tomato Soup 
2 c. tomato 
1 tsp. sugar 
y% tsp. soda 
Yi> tsp. pepper 



Y2 tsp. salt 

2 tb. flour 

1 tb. butter 

1 tb. chopped onion 



2 c. milk 
Cook tomato and seasoning 5 min., add soda, strain into 
white sauce made from butter, flour and milk. 



Cream of Corn Soup. 
2 c. corn 
2 c. water 
XYt. tb. butter 
Y2 tsp. salt 



2 c. milk 

1 onion chopped 

2 tb. flour 

Y?, tsp. pepper 



Cook corn, onion and water below the boiling point 30 
min. ; press through a sieve. Make a white sauce of milk, 
butter and flour, and add the strained corn. Reheat and serve. 



73 HOW TO COOK IT 

Cream of Pea Soup. 

Follow the directions for Cream of Corn Soup, substi- 
tuting 2 c. peas for corn. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

Make as for Cream of Corn Soup, substituting 2 c. celery 
for corn. The celery should be cooked until tender before 
straining it into the white sauce. 

Cream of Potato Soup. 

4 medium potatoes 3 c. milk 

1 onion (large) 2 tb. butter 

2 tb. flour 1 tsp. salt 

yi tsp. pepper % tsp, celery salt 

Cut and cook potatoes with onion in boiling salted water 
until soft, and allow the water to boil down. Press through a 
sieve and add to a white sauce made from the milk, flour, 
butter and seasonings. 

SOUP ACCOMPANIMENTS 

Croutons. 

Cut bread in ^^ in. slices, then into squares, toast or bake 
until delicately brown; turn occasionally. 

Soup Sticks. 

Cut bread in ^^-in. slices, then in strips 1 inch by the 
width of the loaf. Toast until light brown. 

Cheese Straws. 

Roll pie crust to 34 in. thick, sprinkle one half with grated 
cheese to which has been added a few grains of salt and cay- 
enne. Fold, press edges together, fold again, press and roll 
out 54 i"- thick. Sprinkle with cheese and repeat twice. Cut 
in strips 5 inches long and ^4 i^ch wide. Bake 10 min. in a hot 
oven. 

Cheese Sticks. 

Cut soup sticks in half lengthwise, spread with butter 
and sprinkle with grated cheese and bake until golden brown. 



HOW TO COOK IT 73 

Chapter XVII 

VEGETABLES 

GENERAL RULES FOR PREPARATION OF 
VEGETABLES 

1. Wash thoroughly, using a brush for vegetables such 
as potatoes, carrots, etc. 

2. Pare or scrape if skins are to be removed. 

3. Vegetables should be cooked in boiling salted water. 

4. Green vegetables should be cooked uncovered to 
preserve the color. Baking soda may be added to keep the 
color. 

5. Drain vegetables as soon as tender. 

6. Season vegetables with salt and pepper. Serve hot. 

7. Starchy vegetables require long cooking at high tem- 
perature. 

Time for Cooking Vegetables, 

Asparagus — 20 to 40 min., according to age. 

Beans (string) — 1 to 2 hrs. 

Beans (Lima) — 1 to 3 hrs. 

Beets (old)— 3 to 4 hrs. 

Cabbage — 30 to 45 min. 

Cauliflower — 30 to 40 min. 

Green Corn — ^10 to 15 min. 

Onions — 30 to 45 min. 

Parsnips — 30 to 45 min. 

Potatoes (sweet) — 25 to 30 min. 

Potatoes (white) — 20 to 35 min. 

Peas — 20 to 45 min. 

Squash (summer) — 20 to 45 min. 

Squash (winter) — '15 min. to 1 hr.. 

Tomatoes (stewed) — 15 to 20 min. 

Turnips — 45 min. to 1 hr. 



74 HOWTOCOOKIT 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Mash boiled potatoes, season with butter, pepper and salt, 
add enough hot milk to moisten and beat until creamy. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Select medium sized potatoes, wash, bake in hot oven 
until tender, prick potato to allow steam to escape. 

Note — If desired, brush potatoes before baking with 
melted butter or bacon fat. 

Stuffed Potatoes. 

Cut one end off of hot baked potatoes, scoop out the in- 
side, mash with butter, paprika, salt and pepper ; refill shell 
lightly and return to oven to brown top. 

Roasted Potatoes. 

Tare potatoes and boil 10 min. in salted water, drain and 
place potatoes in pan with the roast 45 min. before the meat 
is removed from the oven. Turn and baste occasionally. 
Cook until tender. 

Scalloped Potatoes. 

Pare and slice potatoes. Line a buttered baking dish 
with sliced potatoes, sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour and 
dot with butter and repeat until dish is full. Add hot milk 
to cover. Bake in a moderate oven about 1 hr. 

French Fried Potatoes. 

Slice medium potatoes, cut into eighths lengthwise, soak 
in cold water about 45 min. Drain and dry between folds of 
clean cloth. Fry in deep fat, drain on unglazed paper and 
sprinkle slightly with salt. 

Potato Chips. 

Cut potatoes in very thin slices and follow directions for 
French Fried Potatoes. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Follow directions for baked potatoes. 



HOWTOCOOKIT 7^ 

Candied Sweet Potatoes. 

4 medium sized potatoes 2 tb. butter 

Yi. c. brown sugar 3 tps. salt 

2 tb. water 

Boil 20 min., drain, peel, cut in slices lengthwise ^ in. 
thick and place on buttered tin. Boil sugar, water and salt 
5 min. to make a syrup, and add one-half to the potatoes ; dot 
with butter, brown, and then add the remaining syrup. Bake 
in a moderate oven 20 min., or until tender. 

Baked Squash. 

Cut into 34 in- pieces, remove seeds and stringy portions; 
place on a shallow pan, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dot 
with butter and mash. 

Mashed Turnip. 

Wash, pare and cut into 1-inch slices and cook in boiling" 
salted water until tender. Drain, mash and season with salt 
and pepper and butter. 

Creamed Turnips. 

Cut into Yz in. cubes, cook in boiling salted water, drain, 
add white sauce and season. 

Scalloped Corn. 

2 c. corn 2 tb. flour 

1 c. milk 1 tb. butter 

Yi tsp. salt Y^. tsp. pepper 

1 tsp. sugar Y^ c- bread crumbs 

Make a white sauce with butter, flour and milk, add corn, 

bread crumbs and sugar. Fill buttered baking dish and cover 

with bread crumbs. Bake in a moderate oven until brown. 

Green peppers may be added if desired. 

Succotash. 

Cook lima beans until nearly tender, add about 2 c. corn 
to the beans, cook 20 to 30 min. ; season with salt and pepper. 

Cauliflower. 

Remove leaves, stalks, and separate in pieces. Cook until 
tender in boiling salted water, drain, add seasoning and serve. 



HOW TO COOK IT 



Boiled Onions. 

Place onions in cold water and remove skins under water; 
drain, cover with boiling water and let stand 5 min. ; pour off 
the water, cover with boiling salted water and cook until ten- 
der. Season with butter, pepper and salt and serve with a 
white sauce if desired. 

Spinach. 

Pick over the spinach, remove roots, put in a pan with 
enough water to allow the sand to settle, shake leaves and 
lift out, repeat until all sand is removed. Drain well and cook 
in a covered kettle 10 to 15 min. over a low flame. 

Asparagus. 

Cut off the tough parts of the stalks. Cook asparagus 
whole or in 1-inch lengths in boiling salted water until tender. 
Drain, spread with butter, or serve with white sauce. 

Creamed Celery. 

Wash and scrape out stalks of celery, cut in inch pieces, 
cook until tender in boiling salted water. Make a white 
sauce, using half the celery stock and half milk. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Wash, scald and remove skins, cut in quarters, simmer 
15 to 20 min.; season with salt, pepper and sugar. 

Buttered Beets. 

Wash and cook in boiling water until tender; drain, 
cover with cold water, peel off skins and cut into quarters. 
Season with butter, salt and pepper and reheat. 



HOWTOCOOKIT 7? 

Chapter XVIII 

PICKLES, PRESERVES, JAMS AND JELLIES 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CANNING 

Sterilization of Jars. 

1. Wash jars and fill with cold water, place on a wire 
rack in a deep pan. 

2. Surround jars with warm water and heat gradually 
until water reaches the boiling point and boil 15 min. to ster- 
ilize jars. 

3. Rubbers should be dipped in hot water and removed 
instantly. 

4. Keep the jars in boiling water until ready to use. 

5. Pass a silver knife down between jar and fruit to 
allow bubbles to escape. 

6. Fill jars to overflowing, put on sterilized rubbers and 
cover. 

There are Two Methods of Canning. 

A. Open kettle method, which is to cook fruit or vege- 
tables in a saucepan and when ready transfer to sterilized 
jars. 

B. Cold Pack method, which is to pack the fruit or veg- 
etables in the jar in which it is to be cooked and pour over it 
the boiling syrup or water. 

Canned Peaches. 

Wipe and peel peaches, cut in halves, remove stones. 
Allowing 1 c. sugar to 1 c. peaches, let stand over night, boil 
15 min. and can according to general directions. 

Canned Pears. 

Wipe and pare fruit, remove stems, cut in quarters and 
core or cook whole with stem left on. A small piece of ginger 
root and a few slices of lemon may be added to a syrup made 
of 1 c. water and 1 c. sugar, can according to general direc- 
tions. 



78 HOWTOCOOKIT 

Canned Tomatoes. 

Wash, scald and peel tomatoes, cook until soft, can 
according to open kettle method. 

Canned Beans. 

Wash and string beans, break in halves and pack. Add 
2 tsp. salt to each quart, fill with cold water and can according 
to cold pack method. 

Canned Corn. 

Remove the husks and silk from corn, cut off the kernels 
or leave whole. Pack in sterilized jars, allowing 1^ tsp. salt 
to each quart jar. Fill to overflowing and can according to 
cold pack method. 

Canned Peas. 

Shell and pack in sterilized jars, adding IJ^ tsp. salt to 
each jar. Fill to overflowing with water and follow directions 
for cold pack canning. 

GENERAL RULES FOR PRESERVES 

1. Use equal weight of fruit and sugar. 

2. To each pound of sugar use Yi c. water; heat to the 
boiling point, skim, add fruit and cook until fruit is trans- 
parent. 

3. Pack into jars, fill with syrup and seal. 

Preserved Strawberries. 

Choose large firm strawberries, mix fruit and sugar, let 
stand 1 hr. Boil slowly for 5 min. Put in sterilized jars and 
seal. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR JELLY MAKING 

1. Wash fruit, remove stems, cut large fruit into pieces 
without removing skins or seeds. 

2. Add only enough water to prevent burning; fruit is 
jtiicy ; less juicy fruits require more water. 

3. Cook until fruit is soft, crushing it as it cooks ; strain 
through a sterilized jelly bag; use juice which drips through 
without pressure to make clear jelly ; the remaining juice when 



HOWTOCOOKIT 79 

added to pulp may be utilized in fruit butter or pressed out to 
make jam. 

4. Measure juice — heat sugar. 

5. Boil juice and sugar until the mixture does not run 
when dropped on a plate. 

Grape Jelly. 

Follow directions for jelly making. If fruit is green use 
an equal measure of sugar and juice ; if ripe, ^ as much sugar 
as juice. 

Currant Jelly. 

Follow directions for jelly making, using an equal meas- 
ure of juice and sugar. 

Crab Apple Jelly. 

Follow the directions for jelly making, using 3 parts of 
sugar to one part of juice. Other fruit juices, e.g., plum, 
grape or geranium leaves may be added to improve the flavor. 

Orange Marmalade. 

6 oranges 4 c. sugar 

2 lemons water 

Wash and slice fruit, add twice as much water as fruit; 
let stand over night. Cook slowly 1 hr. Weigh the fruit and 
add as much sugar as fruit. Cook 1 hr. or until it stiffens. 
Pour into sterilized glasses, seal and cover. 

Cranberry Conserve. 

4 qt. cranberries 1 c. walnut meats 

IjE^ c. water 2 oranges (juice and grated 

Yz c. raisins rind) 

Wash and cook cranberries in water until they burst. 
Press through a strainer, add remaining ingredients and cook 

25 min. or until the mixture is thick. Pour into sterilized 
jars ; when cool seal. 



80 HOWTOCOOKIT 

Grape Conserve. 

4 qts. grapes 1 lb. walnut meats 

6 oranges 3 lbs. raisins 

Wash grapes and separate pulp and skins. Cook pulp 
until soft and press through a sieve. Remove pulp and juice 
from oranges, add to raisins and skins ; measure and add an 
equal amount of sugar. Simmer until ready to jelly, add 
broken nuts and pour into sterilized glasses. When cool 
cover with melted parafine. 

Note — Grapes should not be over ripe. 

Chili Sauce. 

12 ripe tomatoes 2 c. vinegar 

4 red peppers 1 tsp. nutmeg 

1 tb. salt 4 onions 

1 tsp. cinnamon 3^ c. sugar 

1 tsp. allspice 1 tsp cloves 

Peel and slice tomatoes, chop peppers and onions and 
cook until reduced one-half. Just before removing from the 
fire add vinegar, sugar and spices ; boil up once and seal. 

Piccalilli. 

y-2. peck green tomatoes 1 head cauliflower 

8 red peppers 6 green peppers 

Yz bunch celery 6 onions 

1 c. salt 1 qt. vinegar 

Cut vegetables in medium sized pieces, mix with salt, let 
stand over night, drain, scald in vinegar and drain, then seal. 

Chow Chow. 

1 qt. string beans 1 qt. small onions 

1 cauliflower 1 qt. cucumbers 

y^ c. mustard, 1 qt. vinegar 

Cut beans, cauliflower and onions in small pieces, cover 

with boiling brine, let stand over night, wash and drain, scald 

in weak vinegar, drain and seal. 



HOWTOCOOKIT 81 

Cucumber Pickle. 

2 qts. small cucumbers 3^ c. sugar 

3 c. vinegar 13 small onions 

2 c. water 2 sticks cinnamon 

2 tb. mustard seed brine 

Choose small firm cucumbers and let stand in strong brine 
(salt water). Mix vinegar and water, add sugar and cucum- 
bers and heat until the color changes. Remove cucumbers 
and pack in jars. With the remaining ingredients heat vine- 
gar to boiling point, fill the jars and seal. 



82 HOW TO COOK IT 

Chapter XIX 

TABLE SERVICE 

RULES FOR TABLE SETTING 

1. Table padding or silence cloth should be placed on 
the table. 

2. The tablecloth should be laid straight and smooth. 

3. A centerpiece of flowers or a fern, if used, should be 
placed in the exact center of the table. 

4. Napkin should be folded twice to form a square and 
placed at the left, with the open edge towards plate ; a dinner 
napkin is folded three times. 

5. For luncheon or breakfast doilies or runners may be 
used in place of the tablecloth. 

6. Doilies may be used on plates containing bread, 
crackers, cakes or biscuits. 

7. The term "cover" means the space for each person, 
with its china, silver and glass. 

8. The bread and butter plate is placed at the upper left 
of the plate, the glass is placed beyond the tip of the knife. 
Salt and pepper shakers should be accessible to each two 
covers. At the right of the plate the knives are placed, in the 
order to be used, and forks that are used without knives — 
e.g., oyster forks — at the left; place all the forks to be used 
with the knives. Do not place more than three pieces of silver 
on either side of the plate. Additional silver may be brought 
with the course. 

STYLES OF TABLE SERVICE 
English, or Family Style — Where the food is served on the 
table, the host serving the main courses, the hostess serving 
the soup, salad and dessert. The food is passed by the wait- 
ress, or when no maid serves it may be passed from one person 
to another. 



HOW TO COOK IT 83 

Russian — Where all the food is served from the pantry. 
This is the most formal type of table service. 
Compromise — Is what the name implies, half the food is 
served from the pantry and the other half from the table. 

Suggestions. 

Cold foods are served on cold dishes. 
Hot foods are served on hot dishes. 

MENU MAKING 
In planning menus the following points should be em- 
phasized. 

1. Variety — Body demands contrast in food. 

2. Cost — Is a most important consideration. Foods 
which give the most food value for the least money should 
be chosen. 

3. Season — , Foods used in season have better flavor, 
more nutritious and are less expenscive. 

4. Occupation — In planning menus the occupation is 
to be considered; e.g., a man working out of doors requires 
more solid food than a man doing clerical work. 

5. Age — Growing persons require more hearty food. 



84 HOW TO COOK IT 

THE LUNCHEON 

There are many pleasant ways for the hostess of to-day 
to entertain her friends, all depending upon the size of her 
purse and the type of entertainment she desires to give. 
She may entertain a few friends, not more than six, success- 
fully at luncheon without a maid providing the menu is 
simple, the plan of work carefully executed, and that the 
hostess herself possesses poise and personal charm. This 
menu may be used, and would require only very little last 
minute preparation, thus allowing the hostess a few minutes 
to greet her guests before luncheon i-s served. 

Grapefruit 

Chicken Patty with Peas 

Rolls Butter 

Lettuce, Russian Dressing Saltines 

Baked Custard, Caramel Sauce 

Coffee 

Sugar Cream 

The grapefruit could be prepared the evening before 
and set in the icebox to chill. 

Patty cases may be purchased at the bakery, the chicken 
and other ingredients ready to cream, or may be creamed an 
hour before luncheon and set in a double boiler. The lettuce 
and dressing should be ready and waiting in a cool place until 
serving time. 

Baked custard may be made early in the morning and 
set to cool. 

The selection of the menu will determine to a great 
extent the success of the meal, for if the food chosen can be 
prepared in advance, the last-minute anxieties will be greatly 
lessened. 

Simplicity is the keynote of success in serving a luncheon 
without help. 



HOW TO COOK IT 85 



AFTERNOON TEA 

Is an institution that will provide entertainment for a 
very small group, but is often used when the guest list is a 
long one. A tea is sometimes given by a hostess to introduce 
an out-of-town guest to a number of her friends. It is a 
formal type of entertaining, and yet when served to two or 
three intimates around a fireplace on a winter afternoon or on 
the porch in summer, it becomes a very informal thing. The 
refreshments usually consist of dainty sandwiches, small 
cakes or cookies, ice cream, tea or iced drink. Bonbons and 
nuts are usually added to the more elaborate menu. Tea 
and sandwiches may be served at the informal tea. The 
table may be set in the dining room with a luncheon cover, 
candles and flowers. The sandwiches, candy and cakes may 
be placed on the table and the guests will stand around to be 
served. This is done when the party is a large one. A tea 
wagon may be used to advantage at a small party where the 
guests will sit around and use the tea wagon as a serving" 
table. 



86 



HOW TO COOK IT 



MENUS FOR SUPPER OR LUNCHEON 



Menu No. 1 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Macaroni and Cheese 

Bread Butter 

Sliced Peaches Cookies 

Menu No. 2 

Canteloupe 

Meat Loaf 

Rolls Scalloped Potato 

Cottage Pudding 

Lemon Sauce 



Menu No. 3 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Potato, Apple and Nut Salad 

Butter Corn Muffins 

Chocolate Pudding 

Whipped Cream 

Menu No. 4 

Lamb Stew 

Butter Graham Bread 

Sliced Oranges 

Plain Cake 



HOW TO COOK IT 



87 



MENUS FOR DINNER 



Menu No. 1 
Fruit Cup 
Broiled Bluefish 
Stewed Tomatoes 

Mashed Potatoes 
Apple Pie 



Menu No. 3 

Chicken Soup 

Roast Lamb with Mint Jelly 

Green Peas Baked Potatoes 

Delmonico Pudding 

Vanilla Sauce 



Menu No. 2 

Bouillon 
Roast Beef 
Creamed Onions 

Roasted Potatoes 
Brown Betty, Hard Sauce 



Menu No. 4 

Fried Ham 

Spinach 

Candied Sweet Potatoes 

Lettuce 

French Dressing 

Washington Pic 



HOW TO COOK IT 



MENUS FOR HOLIDAY PARTIES 

Valentine Party 

Color Scheme Red and White 

Decorations Red Roses, Red Candles 

Favors Hearts and Valentines 

Menu :— 

Waldorf Salad 
Rolls Butter 

Heart Shaped Ice Cream 
Cakes Coffee 

For the Valentine Party where there are not more than 
eight or ten guests and they are to sit around the table, 
luncheon doilies may be used. A centerpiece of flowers in a 
low bowl, two or four candles in silver holders, heart baskets 
for nuts and a valentine for each place makes a very attractive 
table. H 

Apples may be scooped out, mixed with celery, nuts, 
salad dressing, returned to the apple cases and garnished 
with celery leaves rather than lettuce. Little cakes frosted 
with white and a dot of red in the center are appropriate and 
add to the appearance of the table. 



HOVVTOCOOKIT 89 

St. Patrick's Day Party 

Color Scheme Green and White 

Decorations Green Shamrocks 

Favors Clay Pipes as Nut Baskets 

Menu :— 

Creamed Chicken with Green Peppers 

Butter Toast 

Cheese and Walnut Salad Saltines 

V'anilla Ice Cream Green Cherries 

Milk Tea Sugar 

A pot of shamrock makes a very pretty centerpiece, 
especially where narrow green ribbons are extended and 
attached to an old-fashioned clay pipe at each place. The 
cheese and walnuts may be rolled into balls and arranged on 
lettuce leaves and placed on the table. 

Easter Party 

Color Scheme Yellow and Green 

Decorations Jonquils and Pussywillow 

Favors Yellow Baskets and Chickens 

Menu :— 

Easter Egg Salad Olives 

Lettuce and Mayonnaise Sandwiches 

Pistachio Ice Cream Sponge Cake 

Cream Coffee Sugar 

Easter Egg Salad — Use hard-cooked eggs; cut whites in 
lengthwise petals; press yolks through a strainer and fill the 
center; serve on lettuce with salad dressing. 

Lettuce and Mayonnaise Sandwiches — Butter bread, ar- 
range a slice of lettuce between bread, add 1 tsp. dressing 
and cover with bread ; cut off crusts and serve in a sandwich 
basket or on plates. 



90 HOWTOCOOKIT 

May Party for Children 

Color Scheme: Blue, Pink, Yellow, Green 

and Lavendar. 
Decorations Mayflowers 

Favors Paper Dolls in delicate colors 

Menu : — 

Jelly Sandwiches 

Raisin and Nut Sandwiches 
Vanilla Ice Cream Cookies 

If the weather permits arrange the table on the porch or 
lawn ; in the center place a low bowl of Mayflowers and from 
it extend dififerent colored ribbons to the place-lollypop dolls 
with a marshmallow face dressed in a pretty delicate color 
and a Maybasket filled with marshmallows at each place. 
A miniature Maj'pole might be used for a centerpiece, and 
before the lunch is served each child might dance her doll 
around the Maypole. 

Shower for the June Bride 

Color Scheme Pink and White 

Decorations Roses, Candles, Baskets 

Favors Small Wedding Cakes 

Menu : — 

Fruit Salad 
Cheese and Nut Sandwiches 

Olive Sandwiches 
Strawberry Ice Cream Cakes 

Cream Cofltee Sugar 

Fruit Salad — A combination of fresh pineapple, grapes, 
marshmallow, and strawberries will make a delicious salad 
when served with fruit salad dressing. 

Small cakes may be frosted with a heavy decorated 
frosting and each one to contain a ring, thimble, penny or an 
equally significant favor. 



HOVVTOCOOKIT 91 

A shower of things to go away with is very unique and 
useful to the prospective bride. The guests may arrange to 
buy a suitcase or bag and fill it with toilet accessories ; it may 
be delivered by a messenger boy just before the guests arrive. 

Refreshments might be served on the porch after a card 
party, or on the lawn if the party is to be given in the after- 
noon. 

4th of July Picnic 

A holiday in the summer is usually celebrated in the 
coolest available spot — it may be an automobile trip, a day at 
the beach or in the mountains. The refreshments are impor- 
tant and should be carefully planned. 

Menu : — 

Potato and Egg Salad 

Buttered Rolls Ham Sandwiches 

Ice Cream Cake 

Ginger Ale 

The salad may be placed in paper containers, the sand- 
wiches wrapped in oiled paper, a freezer of ice cream brought 
along, and a cake without frosting, such as sponge or angel 
cake. 

The ginger ale might be packed with the ice cream in the 
freezer. Pickles and olives are always relished at a picnic. 

A Beach Party in August 

A beach party is always enjoyable and the refreshments 
are uppermost in the minds of the participants, more especially 
if a swim has preceded the party. 

A steak roast is a popular beach refreshment. When the 
fire is built the steak or frankfurters are roasted — the steak 
cut up in portions large enough to fit in a finger roll ; it may 
be attached to a long stick and placed over the fire. Marsb- 
mallovvs may be toasted a little later ; mustard and pepper 
relish make steak or frankfurters more appetizing; dough- 
nuts, cake, fruit, ginger ale or coffee may be served, all de- 



92 HOWTOCOOKIT 

pending upon the weather and the guests, for usually everyone 
takes part in suggesting the refreshments for a party of this 
kind. 

Thanksgiving Party 

Color Scheme Red and Gold 

Decorations Horn of Plenty ; Fruit 

Favors Turkeys 

Menu :■ — 

Lobster Patty 
Bread and Butter Sandwiches 
Grape and Nut Salad Saltines 

Baked Apples, Whipped Cream 

In the center of the table a large basket of fruit or a horn 
of plenty may be used. The salad may be made with gprapes, 
cherries, pineapple, marshmallow and nuts, and served on 
lettuce. The centers of the apples should be taken out and 
cavitj' filled with jelly ; when baked place a spoonful of 
whipped cream on each apple. 

Christmas Dance 
Color Scheme Red and Green 

Decorations Holly and Evergreen Wreaths 

Menu : — 

Currant Jelly and Cream Cheese Sandv-iches 

Raspberry Ice Cookies 

Fruit Punch 

When the house is open to greet a number of young 
people for dancing the refreshments do not play such an 
important part. Dainty sandwiches, ice and cakes serve to 
refresh the guests. Fruit punch may be placed on a table 
near the room where the dance is being held, and enjoyed 
during the evening. The refreshments may be served buffet 
style. Favors may be distributed for a to-find-your-partner 
dance. 



HOW TO COOK IT 



93 





INDEX 






INTRODUCTION 




Food 






5 


Reasons for Cooking 






5 


Ways of Cooking 






6 


Methods of Combining 






6 


Rules for Use of Recipes 






7 


Common Kitchen Measures 




7 


BEVERAGES. Chapter I. 






Page 




Page 


TEA 


8 


Boiled Coffee 


9 


Rules for Making Tea 


8 


Breakfast Cocoa 


9 


Recipe for Tea 


8 


Reception Cocoa 


9 


Five O'clock Tea 


8 


BEVERAGES, FRUIT 




Tea Accompaniments 


8 


Fruit Punch 


10 


Iced Tea 


8 


Lemonade 


10 


COFFEE 


8 


Raspberry Delight 


10 


Rules for Making Coflfee 


9 


Pineapple Lemonade 


10 


Percolator Coffee 


9 


Iced Loganberry Juice 


10 


BREADS, QUICK. Chapter II. 




Little Muffins 


11 


Whole Wheat Muffins 


14 


Graham Muffins 


11 


Gingerbread 


14 


Southern Corn Bread 


11 


Fritter Batter 


15 


Popcrvers 


11 


Directions for Yeast Bread 15 


Baking Powder Biscuit 


12 


White Bread 


15 


Griddle Cakes 


12 


Rolls 


16 


Waffles 


12 


Cinnamon Rolls 


16 


Doughnuts 


12 


Uses for Dry Bread 


16 


Rules for Testing Fat 


13 


Bread Crumbs 


16 


Strawberry Shortcake 


13 


Toast 


16 


Individual Shortcakes 


13 


Cream Toast 


16 


Nut Bread No. 1 


13 


French Toast 


17 


Nut Bread No. 2 


14 


Cinnamon Toast 


17 


Steamed Brown Bread 


14 






CAKES. Chapter III. 




General Directions 


18 


Jelly Roll 


21 


Tiny Cakes 


19 


Washington Pie 


22 


Dutch Apple Cake 


19 


Chocolate Bars 


r2 


Feather Cakes 


19 


Gold Cake 


22 


Southern Spice Cake 


20 


Sponge Cake 


22 


One-egg Cake 


20 


Angel Cake 


23 


Cocoa Cake 


20 


Cream Puffs 


23 


Devil's Food Cake 


21 


Chocolate Eclairs 


23 



Sour Cream Cake 



21 



•4 



HOW TO COOK IT 



General Directions 
Chocolate Nut Cookies 
Cream Cookies 



COOKIES, WAFERS 

Page 

23 Ginger Snaps 

24 Jelly Filled Cookies 
24 Molasses Cookies 



Page 
24 
24 
25 



CAKE FROSTINGS and FILLINGS 



Strawberry Cream Filling 25 

Quick Frosting 25 

Cream Puff Filling 25 

Chocolate Eclair Filling 26 

Fig and Nut Filling 26 

Fudge Frosting 26 



Boiled Frosting 
Mocha Frosting 
Chocolate Frosting 
Cocoanut Cream Frosting 
Chocolate Marshmallow Fudge 



CANDY. Chapter IV. 



General Directions 

Peanut Butter Fudge 

Maple Peanut Fudge 

Chocolate Marshmallow Fudge 

Brown Sugar Fudge 

Caramels 

Molasses Mint Taffy 



28 Cocoanut Biscuits 



29 
29 
29 
29 
30 
30 



Butter Scotch 
Puffed Rice Balls 
Peanut Brittle 
Salted Nuts 
Glace Nuts or Fruits 



26 
26 

27 

27 

27 



30 
31 
31 
31 
31 
32 



CEREALS. Chapter V. 



General Methods 33 

Corn Meal Mush 33 

Fried Cereal 33 

Cream of Wheat with Raisins 33 



Boiled Rice 34 

Steamed Rice 34 

Boiled Macaroni 34 

Baked Macaroni with Cheese 34 



CHEESE DISHES. Chapter VI. 

Cheese Fondue 35 Cheese Pudding 

Welch Rarebit 35 



35 



Soft Cooked 
Hard Cooked 
Scrambled 



Selection of Fish 
Baked Fish 
Fish Dressing 
Creamed Cod Fish 
Sauted Fish Cakes 
Cod Fish Balls 
■Fried or Baked Smelts 



EGGS. Chapter VII. 

36 Golden-rod 

rf6 Foamy Omelet 
3« 

FISH. Chapter VIII. 

37 Salmon Loaf 
37 Broiled Fish 
37 Boiled Fish 

37 Scalloped Oysters 

37 Creamed Crab Meat 

38 Oyster Stew 
38 Fish Chowder 



36 
36 



38 
38 
38 
39 
39 
39 
39 



HOW TO COOK IT 



95 



ICE CREAMS. SHERBETS, ICES. Chapter IX. 



Directions for Freezing 
Vanilla Ice Cream 
Chocolate Ice Cream 
Coffee Ice Cream 
Peach Ice Cream 
Banana Ice Cream 



Page 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
41 



Custard Ice Cream 
Orange Ice 
Lemon Ice 
Pienapple Sherbet 
Coffee Mousse 



Page 
41 
41 
41 
41 
43 



MEATS. Chapter X. 



Care of Meat 43 

BEEF 

Broiled Steak 43 
Pan Broiled Steak or Chops 43 

Broiled Hamburg cakes 43 

Roast Beef 44 

Roast Beef Gravy 44 

Clarified Fat 44 

Pot Roast 44 

Swiss Steak 45 

Meat Loaf 45 

Hash 45 

Meat Pie 45 

Cream Dried Beef 45 

VEAL 

Veal Cutlets 46 

Veal Loaf 46 



Veal Croquettes 
LAMB 
Roast Lamb or Mutton 

Lamb Stew with Dumplings 

Dumplings 
PORK 

Roast Pork 

Broiled Bacon 

Liver and Bacon 

Boiled Ham 

Ham Souffle 
CHICKEN 

To Dress and Clean a Chicken 

Roast Chicken 

Stewed Chicken 

Chicken Croquettes 



General Directions 
Pie Crust 
Flaky Pastry 
Pumpkin Pie 
Lemon Sponge Pie 
Cocoanut Custard Pie 
Lemon Meringue Pie 
Meringue 

Soft Custard 
Baked Custard 
Caramel Custard 
Floating Island 
Chocolate Cream 
Coffee Cream 
Orange Cream 
Prune Whip 



PASTRY. Chapter XI. 

50 Cocoanut Cream Pie 

50 Blueberry Pie 

51 Apple Pie 
51 Rhubarb Pie 
51 Prune Pie 

51 Peach Pie 

52 Cranberry Pie 
52 

PUDDINGS. Chapter XII. 

55 Brown Betty 

55 Delmonico Pudding 

55 Chocolate Bread Pudding 

55 Baked Rice Puding 

56 Tapioca Cream Pudding 
56 Apple Tapioca Pudding 

56 Gelatine, General Directions 

56 Lemon Gelatine 



46 

46 

47 
47 

47 
47 
48 
48 
48 

48 
49 
49 
49 



52 
52 
53 
53 
53 
53 
54 



57 
57 
57 

57 
57 
57 
58 
58 



96 



HOW TO COOK IT 



Fruit Gelatine 

Coffee Gelatine 

Whipped Raspberry Gelatine 

Snow Pudding 



Page 
59 
59 
59 
59 



Spanish Cream 
Macaroon Pudding 
Steamed Pudding 



Page 
59 
60 
60 



SALADS, SALAD 

Rules for Making Salad 
Kinds of Salad Plants 
Kinds of Salads 
Chicken Salad 
Ham and Celery Salad 
Crab Meat Salad 
Lobster Salad 
Salmon Salad 
Stuffed Egg Salad 
Cheese, Pear and Green 

Pepper Salad 



DRESSINGS. Chapter XIII. 

61 AJberta Salad 62 

61 Waldorf Salad 63 

61 Fruit Salad 63 

61 Tomato Gelatine Salad 63 

62 Potato and Egg Salad 63 
62 Potato, Apple and Nut Salad 63 
62 French Dressing 63 
62 Mayonnaise Dressing 64 
62 Fruit Salad Dressing 64 

Russian Dressing 64 

62 Boiled Dressing 64 



SANDWICHES. Chapter XiV. 

General Directions 65 Sandwich FilKngs 



65 



SAUCES. Chapter XV. 



White Sauce 66 

Drawn Butter Sauce 66 

Hollandaise Sauce 66 

Mint Sauce 66 

Tomato Sauce 67 

Egg Sauce 67 

Tartar Sauce 67 

Cheese Sauce 67 

Orange or Lemon Sauce 67 

Vanilla Sauce 67 

Foamy Sauce 68 



Hard Sauce 68 

Caramel Sauce 68 

Custard Sauce 68 

Whipped Cream Sauce 68 

Chocolate Sauce 69 
Chocolate MarshmaJlow Sauce 69 

Cranberry Sauce 69 

Apple Sauce «9 

Rhubarb Sauce 69 

Prune Sauce 69 

Apricot Sauce 69 



SOUPS. Chapter XVI. 



Brown Stock 
Vegetable Soup 
Bouillon 
Split Pea Soup 
Clear Tomato Soup 
Cream of Tomato Soup 
Cream of Corn Soup 
Cream of Pea Soup 



70 Cream of Celery Soup 72 

70 Cream of Potato Soup 73 

70 SOUP ACCOMPANIMENTS 73 

71 Croutons 72 
71 Soup Sticks 72 
71 Cheese Straws 72 
71 Cheese Sticks 72 
72 



HOW TO COOK IT 



97 



VEGETABLES. 


Chapter XVII. 




P 


age 




Page 


General Rules 


73 


Mashed Turnips 


75 


Time Schedules 


73 


Creamed Turnips 


75 


Mashed Potato 


74 


Scalloped Corn 


75 


Baked Potatoes 


74 


Succotash 


75 


Stuffed Potatoes 


74 


Cauliflower 


75 


Roasted Potatoes 


74 


Boiled Onions 


76 


Scalloped Potatoes 


74 


Spinach 


76 


French Fried Potatoes 


74 


Asparagus 


76 


Potato Chips 


74 


Creamed Celery 


76 


Baked Sweet Potatoes 


74 


Stewed Tomatoes 


76 


Candied Sweet Potatoes 


75 


Buttered Beets 


76 


Baked Squash 


75 






PICKLES, PRESERVES, 


JAMS, JELLIES. Chapter XVIIL 




General Directions for Canning 


77 


Grape Jelly 


79 


Canned Peaches 


77 


Currant Jelly 


79 


Canned Pears 


77 


Crab Apple Jelly 


79 


Canned Tomatoes 


78 


Orange Marmalade 


79 


Canned Beans 


78 


Cranberry Conserve 


79 



Canned Corn 

Canned Peas 

General Rules for Preserves 

Preserved Strawberries 

General Rules for Jelly 



78 Grape Conserve 

78 Chilli Sauce 

78 Piccalilli 

78 Chow Chow 

78 Cucumber Pickle 



TABLE SERVICE, Chapter XIX. 

Rules for Table Setting 82 Menu Making 

Styles of Table Service 82 

The Luncheon .... 

Afternoon Tea .... 

Menus for Supper or Luncheon 
Menus for Dinner .... 
Menus for Holiday Parties . 



80 
80 
80 
80 
81 



83 

84 
85 
86 
87 
88 



Perfect taking Results 

The first essential of success in home-baking 
is to employ a leavener that is pure and depend- 
able — one that raises evenly, and gives the bread 
and cake the right texture and appetizing appear- 
ance. The purity, uniform strength and perfect 
keeping qualities of 

RUMFORD 

The Wholesome 
BAKING POWDER 

insures whiter, sweeter, lighter cake and hot 
breads — it raises the baking just right, and re- 
stores the health-giving properties which fine 
wheat flour loses in the process of milling. 

Try Rutnford next baking day, and you will 
know why prominent food-experts commend it 
as a healthful and economical leavener* 

At Grocers — Everywhere 

FREE — Let us send you, free, a copy of our helpful cook 
book: "The Rumford Modern Methods of Cooking." 

RUMFORD COMPANY, Pro^dence, R. I. 



^ i e t z ^e s t a. u r a n t and Bakery 

The Best Home Cook 

Uses No Finer Materials 

Than We Use Here 

^ We demand the very best that the world 
provides. Flour, sugar, eggs, flavorings and 
and everything else must be of the highest 
grade if vt^e are to buy and use them. 

We ^ut Them in Our Foods 



Large Pies 


Many Kinds of Rolls 


Tea Biscuit 


Doughnuts - Crullers 


Water RoUs 


Long List of Cakes 


Cookies 


Wedihng and 


Specialties 


Anniversary Cakes 



We Serve Them in Our ^staurant 



Dinners Lunches 

Afternoon Tea 



Salads Desserts 

Quick-Bites 



fldl delightfully bright and attractive place, vnth 
expert waitress service and a constantly changed 
menu. 




Dietz Restdwurd^nt 
dwnd Bd^kery 

249 Bridge St, Near Main St, 
Springfield, Mass. 

^^Dietz Bread is Good Bread." 




Never bleached 

and always best — 

AMERICA'S HIGHEST 
GRADE FLOUR 

SANDS. TAYLOR 
8l wood CO. 

Board of Trade Bldg., boston 
Branches in Providence and Worcester 



FRUIT for 
breakfast 



' ' Of course- always! 

But make SURE that you 
serve only fresh, scientifically 
ripened fruits. 

Do you know lohere YOUR 
dealer buy»f 

BOND! 

Brothers 

The Pioneer Fruit 
House of New England 

BONDI BLDG. 
Springfield, Mass. 



Harry H. Lane 

Wholesale 

Confectioners 



Quality Goods 
Prompt Service 



83 Virginia Street 
Springfield, Mass. 



W.C. 
BELDING 

A Store of Quality 

Groceries 
Meats Provisions 

\ Orders Delivered Promptly ( 

457 State Street 

Springfield, Mass. 



The busy housewife s 
most vexing problem: 

^'What dessert for 
tonighf s dinner?'^ 



flYou need no longer rack 

your brain trying to think of something 
new to tempt the family appetite. Your 
telephone wiD bring you the most deli- 
cious dessert there is: 



INDESSrS 

Ice Cream 

c4ll fl3L'vors— including YOUl^ f&'vorite. 

Sold everywhere in 

brick and bulk 



flYou may serve it freely 

to die youngest children, as we use no 
barreled goods and NOTHING 
CANNED. No wonder Indessi's is 
the leading ice cream! 

Have you tried Indessi's 
STRAWBERRY PUDDINGS? 

Bo that - TO DA T 



Indessi s 

Sultana 

Rolls 



— a rart 
treat! 



A. INDESSI— Highland Dairy 

495 Berkshire Avenue 
Springfield, Massachusetts 



z 



here is 

always 
great attraction 
for young peo- 
pJe in the home 
where you find 

an Edison 
Phonog(r&ph 

It entertains or furnishes 
good music for a dance at a 
moment's notice. 

QHARLES H ALL, Inc. 

The Hall BuUding 

Springfield, Massachusetts 



The WORTHY The WORTHY The WORTHY 



I h6 most expert of 

cooks will now and 
then be jaded by her own 
best efforts. 

At such times she will 
find respite from her 
kitchen in our model 

Cafeteria 

where at modest prices 
she may "eat in comfort" 
food just as carefully pre- 
pared as she herself serves. 



M 



And our delightful upilain res- 
taurant IE sure to ch&im h«i. 

ortb)? Ibotel 

The best place in town 
to sto-p over-night — 



Springfield, 



Mc 



IllJv 



Every Meal 

a Pleasant 

Memory! 



The 

HIGHLAND 
Hotel 

Springfield, Mass. 




No. 247 Set Cutlery 

10 piece set of knives, forks and spatulas, a? 
illustrated. Ground sharp and hand honed 
blades. Waterproof rubberoid handles. Blades 
pinned in. Price per set $4.60 

R. A. Fife Corporation 

Specialists in School and Home 

Kitchen Appliances 
Mamaroneck. New York 

Write for Catalog: No. F17. 



-Nature packs millions 

of energizing, life - giving 

V I T A MI N E S 



into all good FRUITS- 
and VEGETABLES 



If it But most housewives kill them by over cooking. 

Cabbage, for instance, entirely loses its vfon- 

y, . derful vitamine content if you cook it any 

^ lenght of time. 
garden 

or an To make sure of GETTING all the vitamines 

Orchard — you BUY-eat plenty of fresh fruits and green 

"We vegetables— cooked as little as possible. Serve 

Have It! more SALADS. 



Henry J. 

Perkins Co. 

Wholesale FRUITS and PRODUCE 
435 Ihvight St, t at Market Square 

SPRINGFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS 



N.B. You may safeh cook TOMATOES as long as you please. For some 
unexplained reason their i/Hamines are not lost in cooking. 

And tomatoes, by the ')»ay, are especially rich in Vitamines. 



"Quality Oooch and Service"- 



There is a flavor 

in JACKSON'S 
CHOCOLATES 



We are distributors 

(or the largest 

line ot 



5c 



a r s 



in th^ <ii y- 



which you will find in no others, regardless 
of mere price. 

And that is because of the tnagic "recipe" which only 

the Jackson makers know. 

Tell HIM that you want "Jackson's" next time! 



BOOTH-TOWNSEND CO. 

Wholesale Confectioners 

42 Taylor Street, Springfield, Mass. 




FRESH 



has all the original flavor that 
Mother Nature put into the nut 









feit^^ 



Improve your everyday dishes with 

a sprinkling of Diomedary. For a choice 
collection of Date and Cocoanul rfcipft, 
send for our "One Hundred Delights", 
Department A A, The Hills Brothers G>,, 
375 Washington St.. New York City. 



;iililiS:I^EtII«fc 



THE HILLS BROTHERS CO.. NEW YORK 



Bread C 



a s e s 



Cut stale bread in 2 in. slices, 
scoop out with a biscuit 
cutter leaving a layer at the 
bottom. Fry in deep fat and 
U3e as a patty shell. 



D elmonico Puddli ng 

Cut bread in small pieces, add 
egg and milk, sprinkle with 
nutmeff and sugar. Bake 
until light brown. 



DEXTER'S 
MOTHER»S 

Bread—. 

The 'BEST Since 1893 



Cheese Stick s 

Cut bread in narrow strips 1-2 
in. wide, sprinkle with grated 
cheese and toast. 



Cinnamon Toast 



Toast bread. Turn, spread 
with butter, sprinkle with 
sugar and cinnamon and 
toast until light brown. 



HANDY'S 

Delicious 

'Roast Ham 



-the most satisfactory ham for 
frying and boiling. t 

And any of your friends who have taken 
it on picnic trips will tell you that it 
makes the finest 

SANDWICHES 

one ever tasted. Try some Handy Ham 
Sandwiches next time you go on an outing or 
when the "crowd" drops in for tea. 



H. L. HANDY Compdwny 

Mamifacturers of 

HIGH GRADE SAUSAGE PRODUCTS 

Wholesale Dealers In 

CHICAGO DRESSED BEEF. PORK. HAMS. POULTRY. 
LARD. BUTTER. EGGS. CHEESE. ETC. 

31-45 Hampden Street 

Spring^field, Mass. 



*See the Roast Ham recipe on page 47 
tSee the Boiled Ham recipe on page 48 



rCOOKING 
Apparatus- 

for 

Hotels, Schools 

and 

Institutions 

Qpecialists in 

•^C H I N A , 

GLASS and 

SILVERWARE 

and quality Cook- 
ing Utensils. 

Call, write, telephone or 
telegraph—and an expert 
will be at your service. 



Morandi Proctor Company 



Manufacturers 

86 and 88 Washington St. 

BOSTON 



Use MINER'S 
BEST COCOA 

and 

Baking' Chocolate 

in connection with recipes in thit book. 



HANDY CHOCOLATE COMPANY 

Sprinifield, Ma«». 



Look! -Read! -THINK!. 



A carpenter does not do all his work 
with one tool. Don't try and make 
good pastry with Bread Flour. 

_Fine Gold 

Fancy PASTRY FLOlHt 

is milled from soft ivhcte <wtnter <=a)hea.i 

TRY it! 

If you have teen using bread 
flour for pastry, yov will be 
surprised and jyleased. 

E. O. Smith Company 

Distributors 

-JSpringf ield .-^— .i-— ii. Massachusetts' 



Clean, wholesome 

MILK 



and rich, delicioiis 

CREA 



You will find our laboratory- 
tested milk and aeam always 
fiesh, sweet and SAFE. 

And we know by analysis 
that every bottle we send oiut is 
rich in the elements that make ior 
sturdy health. 

Serve our milk on your table 
as a BEVERAGE — use it when- 
ever you can in your cooking — 
then watch the roses come into 
the youngters' cheeks! 



Ralph WEEKS 



Pasteurized Milk and Cieam 
delivered at your doorstep 



Chicopee, Mass 



Komo Flour 




for 

better 



Insist on having your Grocer supply you 
with this high grade flour, makes white 
Bread and will make delicious Pastry 

Sold by alt grocers* 



Haskell-Adams Co. 

Wholesale Distributors 
137 Lyman St., Springfield, Mass. 





Gas Range 

THE QUEEN OF RANGES 




No. 1837 E 

Made of white porcelain enamel with sparkling nickel 
fittings, makes your kitchen sanitary and cheerfiiL 

No scrubbing needed — ^just a damp cloth and your 
Quality is spotless. 

Your food will be cleaner and taste better when cooked 
on the snow white Quality. 

We have all sizes and styles of Quality Gas Ranges. 
The range you want is among them. 

y^or Quality Cooking We Recommend Quality Ranges 

THE BURDEN-BRYANT CO. 

STOVE REPAIR HOUSE 

109-111 Lyman Street, Springfield, Mass. 

Coal, Gas and Oil Ranges and Refrigerators 




The Forbes & Wallace 



HODSEFURNISHINGS STORE 

{In the basement) 

Here is a complete store in itself, catering to every house- 
hold need in the most satisfactory, attractive varieties it is 
possible to assemble. 

A Specialized Store 
In Every Detail - - - 

Successful in providing not only the regular staple lines 
of merchandise in large assortments, but also in intro- 
ducing the newest features pertaining to efficiency in 
housekeeping. Whenever you visit this section you are 
certain to discover some new household device that will 
help in your housekeeping — perhaps a new vegetable 
cutter, a new cream w^iipper, household brushes, cleaning 
liquids and polishes, and just countless other things. 

To Have the Newest and the Best 
Merchandise at the Lowest Possible Price. 

IS THE SPECIAL AIM OF THIS 
HOUSEFURrsiSHINGS STORE. 



- FORBES & WALLACE 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 488 284 2 # 



^git^M^lK^tj^^ydgD^K. 


NHC 



