Class 




Book. Xj o 
Copyright N^_ 



GDE^IGHT DEPOSm 



The Home Dietitian 



or 



Food and Health 




THE AUTHOR AND HER SONS 



^iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiniiiiiiiiiijiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii I iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiii^ 

I The Home Dietitian | 

I or I 

I Food and Health 

I Scientific Dietetics | 

I Practically Applied | 



By 

BELLE WOOD-COMSTOCK, M. D. 

Member of the Los Angeles County Medical Society, 
of the Los Angeles Obstetrical Society, and of 
the Professional Woman's Club of Los Angeles 



REVIEW AND HERALD PUBLISHING ASSOCIATION 
Takoma Park, Washington, D. C. 

SOUTH BEND, IND. PEEKSKILL, N. Y. 



^•■■■■■■1 iiiiiiiiiiiiii I J I Bir jiiiiiiiiiiii iij niiiiJiiiiiiij riiiiiiiintiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiriil; 

Printed in U. S A. 






Copyrighted 1919 and 1922 

by 

BELLE WOOD-COMSTOCK, M. D. 



m 20 \m 

©CU683622 



INTRODUCTORY NOTE 

Mendel says : " Let us welcome the day when the food 
market and the kitchen are taken into consideration by 
the physician as seriously as are the apothecary shop and 
the fashionable watering place." 

When people eat the proper kind and amount of food 
in the proper way, there will be little need for the 
physician except as a teacher and guide. Today the 
people's greatest need is education in normal living. 
Little good can come from spasmodic, desultory teaching. 
The mother, the housewife, must be thoroughly trained 
in the science of home-keeping and child culture, a most 
important phase of which is the feeding of the bodies of 
those in her care. 

" What the average woman at the head of a home 
does not sufficiently grasp in all its importance, is that 
the very center of the household — the most important 
thing in the home — is the spread table with a meal on 
it. Look at the church. It is by no accident or mere 
coincident that the central sacrament of the Christian 
religion takes the form of a common meal. It repre- 
sents a universal fact of human life. The domestic 
table is really the pivot upon which the whole home 
turns." — Elizabeth Harrison. 

" The body is the foundation and not to be ignored. 
The people of power are those who have an efficient 
tool to carry out the mental and spiritual ideas." — 
Dickenson. 

The mother has the opportunity of developing in her 
child the physical foundation that makes possible heights 

5 



of intellectual and spiritual growth. The problem must 
be solved in the home. Upon the housewife rests the 
responsibility. To her this book is humbly dedicated in 
the hope that it may help her in her task. 

Belle Wood-Comstock. 



" In the years of infa^icy and childhood, food 
and nourishment are of sjoecial moment; not 
alone for the time, but also for the child's future 
life. Through its diet a child may groiu up to 
he — in the business of life — idle or indus- 
trious, dull or lively, weak or strong." — Froebel. 

" Experiments have shoivn that physical en- 
durance can be doubled by dietetic causes alone." 
— Fisher. 



INTRODUCTION TO SECOND EDITION 

The favorable reception accorded the first edition of 
" The Home Dietitian " has been very gratifying, and 
is much appreciated. 

Exp^n^ental work during the last few years has 
settled in an undebatable way many questions which for 
centuries were hidden in a maze of uncertainty and su- 
perstition. The question of nutrition no longer rests 
upon theory or conjecture, but has been placed on an 
undeniably safe scientific basis. Much is still not fully 
understood; many questions are yet to be answered, 
many details to be worked out; but the maze of uncer- 
tainty has been cleared away, and careful research sim- 
ply serves to establish more firmly certain definite basic 
principles. 

The calorie, at first received with great respect as the 
solution to all food problems, then by many set aside as 
of little value, is now accorded its proper place in the 
mathematics of nutrition. The vitamine, that vague 
something only recently viewed askance by the con- 
servative investigator, has been established as a definite 
entity, to be ignored only at the risk of serious loss. 

Much that is of value has been added to this edition; 
nothing to neutralize or underrate what has been pre- 
sented before, but only that which establishes more 
firmly certain dietetic principles which cannot be gain- 
said. 

Somewhat under protest, but because of repeated de- 
mand for suggestions as to the application of dietetic 
principles in the feeding of the sick, we have in this 
edition added several chapters. These we trust will be 
helpful in the solution of many feeding problems in 

7 



times of ill health and disease; and assist, in a measure, 
to remove from the minds of the people the idea, with 
so many firmly fixed, that disease is something. to be 
cured by a magic potion or a mechanical thrust. 

Our thought has been to make the way so plain that 
the everyday student, the parent, the child, might re- 
ceive in a practical way the benefit of the great work 
done by such men as Mendel, Osborne, Funk, McCollum, 
and others, who in solving these problems have rendered 
the greatest possible physical service to mankind. 

Those who want arbitrary dietary outlines may be 
a bit disappointed; but to those who would, by careful 
study, seek to Master the simple underlying principles 
of nutrition, we off'er this book, trusting that in it they 
may find the problem simplified. 

The Author. 



" Isn't it queer that some people care more 
for what they eat than for hoiv they feel? The 
question is not how much good is this food go- 
ing to do me, but how pleasant it will taste 
for an instant while it is passing through my 
mouth." — Journal of Public Health. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



I Food Classification ; the Cycle of Life .... 11 

II The Body as a Stove ; Metabolism 17 

III Defective Food Analysis; Auto-intoxica- 

tion 21 

IV Defective Food Analysis (Continued) ; 

Suboxidation 27 

V The Food Unit, or Calorie 32 

VI A Balanced Ration — Protein 38 

VII A Balanced Ration (Continued) — Fat . . 49 
VIII Carbohydrates ; Their Place in the Daily 

Ration 58 

IX Vitamines 69 

X Mineral Salts 81 

XI Fruits 92 

XII Vegetables 99 

XIII Breads and Cereals 109 

XIV Dairy Products 116 

XV Flesh Food: Is It a Dietary Essential? . . 124 

XVI Condiments 140 

XVII Unnatural Stimulants 145 

XVIII Desserts 151 

XIX Meat Substitutes and Suggestive Menus . . 155 

XX Combinations 172 

XXI The Feeding of Children 178 

XXII Fads 189 

XXIII Food Economy 198 

XXIV Vegetarian Diet Without Dairy Products 205 
XXV Principles of Feeding the Sick, and Their 

Application in Acute Disease .... 218 
XXVI Principles of Feeding the Sick as Applied 

in Chronic Constitutional Diseases 232 
XXVII Principles of Feeding the Sick as Applied 

in Chronic Infectious Diseases . . . 259 

XXVIII Milk and the Milk Diet 265 

XXIX Food Idiosyncrasies 273 

XXX Summary and Conclusion 281 

XXXI Recipes — Simple, Economical, Hygienic 284 
Appendix: Table I Caloric Value of Ready-to- 

Serve Foods 329 

Table II Foodstuffs, Both Raw and 

Cooked, Commonly Used in Cooking 339 



Health is a state of physical, mental, and 
moral equilibrium, a normal functionating of 
body, mind, and soul. It is the state when 
work is a pleasure, ivhen the world looks good 
and beautiful, and the battle of life seems 
worth while. Health is the antithesis of dis- 
ease, degeneracy, and crime. . . . 

Health is the most desired of earthly bless- 
ings. When finally lost, it cannot be purchased 
by uncounted millions, restored by the alienist, 
or returned by the pulpit. — S. J. Crumbine. 



XO 



CHAPTER I 
FOOD CLASSIFICATION; THE CYCLE OF LIFE 

In the body, combined in various ways, are sixteen 
chemical elements: carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, 
sodium, potassium, magnesium, calcium, phosphorus, iron, 
sulphur, chlorine, iodine, bromine, fluorine, and silicon. 

For the successful growing of crops there must be 
present in the soil a definite number of elements in nor- 
mal amount and combination. Likewise for the normal 
development of human beings, there must be present in 
the food these sixteen elements in proper amount and 
proportion. 

These are not taken into the body as elements, but 
are built up first into seven elemental food classes. 
These seven food classes are : carbohydrates, fats, pro- 
teins, vitamines, salts, cellulose, and water. Any daily 
food ration not containing these in proper proportion 
is defective. 

Food Elements 

Class I. — Carbohydrate, made up of the chemical 
elements carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, includes all 
starches and sugars, and is a fuel food. Its combustion 
in the body produces heat and energy. The carbohy- 
drates make up a large part of the food value of grains, 
fruits, and vegetables. 

Class II. — Fat is another, but more concentrated, 
fuel food, also containing carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. 
This food element we have in butter, oils, fat meats, 
nuts, Qgg yolks, olives, the alligator pear, the soy bean; 
also to some extent in other legumes, in grains, and in 
vegetables. 

U 



12 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

Class III. — Protein is the muscle and tissue builder. 
It contains, in addition to carbon, hydrogen, and oxy- 
gen, another very important chemical element, called 
nitrogen, by reason of whicb it is often spoken of as ni- 
trogenous food. Protein also contains variable amounts 
of other chemical elements, as sulphur, phosphorus, and 
sometimes iron, but its distinctive element is nitrogen. 
This food is found in a pure state in egg white, in the 
casein of milk, and in lean meat. In a combined form 
it makes up part of the food value of grains, vegetables, 
legumes, and nuts. 

Class IV. — Vitamines, our knowledge of which is 
still somewhat limited, are doubtless the substances out 
of which the body makes its internal secretions, diges- 
tive enzymes, and the ferments of vegetative life proc- 
esses. They are found in raw and fresh vegetables, fruit, 
raw milk, the outer covering of grains, and raw meat. 

Class V. — Salts, both organic and inorganic, are 
made up of many different chemical elements, and are 
necessary for blood making and tissue building, for the 
carrying on of various metabolic and secretory proc- 
esses, and for the maintenance of the proper alkalinity 
of all body fluids. They are found principally in fruits, 
vegetables, grains, and milk, and are located with the 
vitamines largely under the skin of fruits and vege- 
tables and in or near the outer covering of grain. 

Class VI. — Cellulose is really a carbohydrate, but 
being practically indigestible, is placed in a class by 
itself. It makes up the woody framework of fruits and 
vegetables. Its value is in its bulk, which by its pres- 
ence prevents too great food concentration and me- 
chanically stimulates the bowel, thus aiding in normal 
intestinal peristalsis. 

Class VII. — Water plays an important part in the 
many chemical reactions and tissue changes continually 



FOOD CLASSIFICATION 13 

going on in the body; it holds the various salts in solu- 
tion ; it makes up the principal part of all body fluids 
and secretions; and, as a circulatory medium, it helps 
to make it possible for the body to regulate its own 
temperature. 

All food is built up in nature's laboratory by a proc- 
ess called synthesis. For example, take the apple, which 
is made up chiefly of fruit sugar and cellulose, with 
accompanying vitamines, salts, and water. The sugar 
and cellulose, both belonging to the carbohydrate class, 
contain the chemical elements carbon, hydrogen, and 
oxygen. 

Nature's Laboratory 

The chlorophyll, or green coloring matter of the plant, 
first manufactures starch, obtaining its carbon from the 
ever-present carbonic acid gas or carbon dioxide (CO,) 
of the air, and giving back to the air the oxygen. Water 
(H„0), coming up through the roots with its hydrogen 
and oxygen, supplies to the chlorophyll these elements 
to complete the process of starch making.^ 

From some of this starch, cellulose is made, and later, 
as the apple ripens, the remaining starch is changed 
into sugar. 

■ In the same way the elements necessary for the vita- 
mines and salts are obtained from the soil. All are 
combined in a wonderful way until we have as a result 
the finished product, the apple ripened and tinted by 
the sun. 

Before it can be utilized in the body, however, a very 
different process goes on. From the time the apple is 
seized by the teeth the process becomes one of disinte- 
gration, or analysis, begun by the mechanical action of 



'The chemical formula for starch is (C6HioOB)n. The formation of starch in 

the plant may be represented by the chemical equation : 6COo (carbonic acid gas) 

-|- 5H2O (water) = CbHioOb (starch) + O12 (oxygen). The starch remains as a part 
of the plant — the oxygen returns to the air. 



14 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

mastication. It is continued by the muscular activity of 
the digestive tract until the food becomes a thoroughly 
liquefied mass. 

A Twofold Phase of Digestion 

But these physical changes are not sufficient. That 
the food may be yet more completely simplified and dis- 
solved, certain juices are poured out along the digestive 
tract which break up the food molecules into still more 
simple forms, that the next important step may take 
place with the greatest ease and completeness. Thus, 
chemical action, in addition to mechanical action, pre- 
pares the food for the process of absorption into the 
body proper, where it may repair and build the tissues 
and produce the necessary heat and energy for the effi- 
cient conduct of all body processes. 

In this digestive process all starch is changed to sugar 
(see footnote, page 59), all complex sugars to simple 
sugar or dextrose, fats are emulsified, and proteins are 
reduced to simpler forms called proteoses, peptones, and 
amino acids. Many of these processes can be carried 
on to some extent outside the digestive tract; thus we 
have certain predigested foods, such as dextrinized 
cereals, in which the starch has been largely changed 
to dextrin by extreme heat, e. g., oven toast, shredded 
wheat, corn flakes, etc. Likewise fats may be eaten in 
an already emulsified form, as in nut butter and cream. 
The sugar of fruit being in the form of dextrose and 
levulose (see top of page 59), needs practically no 
digestion. 

Starch digestion begins in the mouth and is com- 
pleted, with the simplifying of the complex sugars, in 
the small intestine. The solution of protein and its 
change into proteoses and peptones begin in the stomach 
and are completed, with its final reduction to amino 



FOOD CLASSIFICATION 15 

acids, in the intestine. The preparation of fat for ab- 
sorption is carried on entirely in the intestines, by emul- 
sification and by a process of splitting up into more 
simple parts, called saponification (soap formation). 
(See page 51.) 

A Carburetor 

Thus the digestive tract becomes a great preparation 
chamber, a carburetor, as it were, where the food is 
transformed into a simple state and put into, solution 
so that it can easily be taken up by the blood and thus 
carried to, and properly utilized by, the body cells. 

Strange as it may seem, the digestive tract must be 
considered physiologically as outside the body proper. 
It is simply a tube extending through the body, but not 
connected ivith it except by an absorbing medium, the 
mucous membrane. It is continuous with the outside 
world from which it receives food substances and into 
which are discharged those parts which cannot be pre- 
pared for reception by the blood and tissues. The lining 
membrane of the digestive tract tries carefully to guard 
the body cavity against intrusion into it of substances 
which are undesirable or might do harm; and, normally, 
after careful preparation, only that part of the food 
which can serve as material to replace worn-out tissue 
or as fuel to produce heat and energy, is passed on into 
the blood. 

A Sentinel 

However, as the result of putrefactive processes going 
on in the intestine, certain poisons are also carried 
through the mucous membrane. These would quickly 
prove fatal were it not for the faithful liver which 
stands as a sentinel to prevent these toxic materials 
from gaining entrance into the general circulation. The 
liquefied and simplified food passing through the mucous 



16 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

membrane of the small intestine, enters many tiny blood 
vessels, or capillaries, which carry it to the portal vein, 
through which it is conveyed to the liver. Here the 
poisonous substances are filtered out to be transformed 
by the liver cells into harmless materials, and the puri- 
fied food passes on into the general blood stream.- The 
liver also acts as a great storehouse for sugar, this part 
of the food entering the system according to body 
demands. 

If, as a result of dietetic errors, intestinal putrefac- 
tion is excessive, the amount of toxic material taken up 
by the great absorbing surface of the small intestine 
may be so great that even the ever-vigilant liver is un- 
able to filter out these poisons and to prevent their en- 
trance into the blood, where they are carried through- 
out the body, causing various kinds and degrees of ill 
health. 

The Cycle of Life 

Even though the food has been received by the blood, 
its analysis is not yet complete, but is carried on still 
further in connection with a form of oxidation or com- 
bustion. During this process the nutritive substances 
are utilized by the tissues, and finally, being reduced to 
a simple state, they are eliminated as waste by the 
lungs, skin, and kidneys. Now they can again be taken 
up by the plant and combined into materials which may 
be used as food by animals and man. Thus the cycle 
of life goes on, nothing ever lost, each chemical element 
being used again and again. 

Just how these final steps in the process of food 
analysis are carried on in the tissues, we will consider 
further in the next chapter, in connection with the 
study of metabolism. 



2 The digested fat, called chyle, does not pass with the other food to the liver, 
but is absorbed directly into the lymphatic system. 



CHAPTER II 
THE BODY AS A STOVE; METABOLISM 

It is important that we study more fully the oxida- 
tion processes through which the food passes after it is 
absorbed by the wall of the digestive tract. This final 
process of food reduction is included in the subject, 
metabolism. 

Cell Building 

Food does not arrive at its ultimate destination until 
it reaches the individual cell. Here the nitrogenous por- 
tion is built up into the cell itself; the carbohydrate and 
fat aflford energy for cell activity. Thus new cells are 
made, old cells are renewed, this process of cell building 
and repair being that part of metabolism known as 
aTiaboUsm. 

In connection with the activity and life processes of 
the cell which are made possible by the energy resulting 
from the oxidation, or combustion, of the food taken up 
by the cell, waste material, made up of broken-down 
cells and the products of combustion, is produced which 
is carried by the blood stream to its proper outlet. This 
process of tearing down and waste formation is that 
part of metabolism called katabolism. 

The Fuel 

In connection with these changes of waste and repair, 
or metabolism, the body may be compared to a stove. 
The food is the fuel, which is as truly burned in the 
tissues as is gas, wood, or coal burned in a furnace. 
This slow combustion is a true oxidation process, and 
oxygen is as necessary for the body fires as it is for the 
2 17 



18 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

more rapid oxidation which goes on in the ordinary 
stove. The lungs serve as both drafts and flue, and a 
perfect circulation of the oxygen received is made pos- 
sible by the circulation of the blood. The kidneys are 
the grates through which the ash is eliminated. 

The oxidation of carbohydrate and fat results in the 
production of heat, or other forms of energy, the 
end products being carbonic acid gas (COo) and water 
(H.O). These are eliminated through the lungs, the 
skin, and the kidneys as simple gas and water. There 
is no ash, just as there is none from the burning of 
gas in a gas heater. Starches, sugars, and fats are sim- 
ply fuel foods necessary for heat and energy, but have 
nothing to do with tissue repair. 

Tissue Building 

Tissue repair is the additional work of protein. Pro- 
tein contains nitrogen in addition to its carbon, hydro- 
gen, and oxygen. The nitrogen is used in the work of 
cell building and cell repair. It is the iron of the stove 
and while not needed in such large amounts, is of vital 
importance ; for if the body stove is not kept in constant 
repair, it will soon enter a state of dissolution. As pro- 
tein contains carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, some heat 
and energy results from the oxidation of this part of 
the protein molecule, which is about 58 per cent of the 
whole. Carbon dioxide and water are in this way given 
off, but the distinctive work of this food element has 
to do with its nitrogenous portion (see page 85). 

Building Stones 

The protein molecule is very complex, and varies 
within wide limits. Its nitrogen is always combined 
with carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, but in many dif- 
ferent ways to form different kinds of protein. The 



THE BODY AS A STOVE 19 

arrangement of the nitrogenous combinations in the 
food proteins is different from that of the tissue pro- 
teins, so after the breaking-down process that the food 
undergoes in connection with digestion, the nitrogenous 
links are put together again in the various necessary 
combinations to form the many kinds of tissue. A com- 
plete protein contains seventeen or eighteen of these 
nitrogenous units, which are called ammo acids and 
have been likened to building stones. (See pages 43 
and 76.) Rearrangement of these amino acids makes 
possible the formation of the tissues that go to make up 
the body. (An amino acid contains the radical NH..) 

The Body Grates 

As the result of cellular activity and oxidation, a defi- 
nite solid ash is formed, in which form the nitrogen is 
eliminated through the body grates, or kidneys, in so- 
lution in the urine. Urea, uric acid, purines, creatine, 
and other allied bodies make up this solid ash. The 
most completely reduced form is U7'ea, which is the 
most important end product of protein metabolism, and 
the form in which the greater part of the nitrogen is 
eliminated. There is normally, however, a certain small 
part of the ash not so completely metabolized, which 
must be eliminated as uric acid and purines, but these 
in excess soon become abnormal. 

An Expensive Fuel 

Any protein not needed for tissue building may be 
used by the body to produce heat and energy, the nitro- 
gen being split off and eliminated in the usual way. 
But this would be a waste of nitrogen, and a needless 
task imposed on the excretory organs. It could not, 
therefore, be considered economy if it were possible to 
obtain this energy from the strictly fuel foods that leave 



20 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

no nitrogen for elimination. This use of nitrogen would 
be analogous to burning iron in a furnace. While it 
might be possible, it would hardly, under ordinary cir- 
cumstances, be considered wise or economical. 

Clinkers and Soot 

Thus as the result of oxidation and reduction proc- 
esses, the food, whether carbohydrate, fat, or protein, is 
reduced to a simple state which makes complete elimina- 
tion from the body possible. If for any reason oxida- 
tion is incomplete, the process of elimination is greatly 
hindered; the ash is not finely divided, but is full of 
clinkers, the grate becomes clogged, and waste products 
are retained, which further clog the body stove and 
hinder the normal oxidation processes. Incomplete oxi- 
dation of carbohydrates and fats may also clog the tis- 
sues in much the same way as soot clogs a gas burner 
when, as the result of incomplete oxidation, it gives a 
yellow flame with its unoxidized carbon, instead of a 
blue flame, in which all carbon is thoroughly burned. 
(See page 28.) 

For this reason it is important that the body fuel, 
while sufficient, be not excessive, that the drafts be 
kept well open, and that there be a free circulation of 
oxygen. Then the fuel will be thoroughly burned, the 
ash finely divided, and elimination will be complete. 
There will be no soot, clinkers will not clog up the grate 
or back up into the stove, and the stove will not smoke. 
The vital fires will burn brightly, and all organic func- 
tions will be carried on in the normal way that makes 
for health and strength. 



CHAPTER III 

DEFECTIVE FOOD ANALYSIS; AUTO- 
INTOXICATION 

We have seen that the passage of the food through 
the body means a gradual reduction from a complex to 
a simple state. That this reduction should go on in a 
normal way and at a normal rate, is all-important. 
Certain conditions, chiefly dietetic errors, result in great 
interference with these processes, both while the food is 
still in the digestive tract and after absorption, when it 
has been taken up by the blood and tissues, — the first, 
slow and imperfect digestion ; the second, faulty and in- 
complete metabolism. 

A Serious Defect 

The first and most common defect in food analysis is 
in the process of mastication. Carelessness in regard to 
this most important initial process lies at the foundation 
of much of the imperfect digestion in the lower alimen- 
tary tract. 

As the result of imperfect disintegration in the mouth, 
food substances are hurried into the stomach faster and 
in larger amounts than they can properly be received 
and cared for. Food received by the stomach in nor- 
mal, well-masticated portions, already in a semiliquid 
state, begins at once to leave the stomach, the amount 
taken in continually bearing such a relation to that pass- 
ing out that at no time is the organ overdistended and 
thus handicapped in its muscular movement.^ 



^ X-ray study has shown that the liquid portion of the food begins at once to 
leave the stomach, the more solid portions remaining for further digestion. As the 
acid contents of the stomach rush through the pylorus (the outlet of the stomach) 
into the first part of the small intestine, or duodenum, the pylorus closes, the bile 

21 



22 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

But the rapid introduction into the stomach of im- 
properly prepared material at once tends to overwhelm 
the organ, and would, could it be seen, produce as un- 
sightly a spectacle as crowding the mouth so full of 
food that mastication is made awkward and almost im- 
possible. This food, not having been properly reduced 
before swallowing, requires an excessive amount of 
churning by the stomach wall, which is already handi- 
capped by overdistention. 

Advantage of Slow Eating 

Incomplete mastication means hurried eating. Hur- 
ried eating leads to overeating, because the introduction 
of food has been so rapid that the nerve impulses have 
not had time to return with their message, " Enough ; " 
and thus by the time the sensation of hunger has dis- 
appeared, an excess of food has been taken. Every one 
knows how, if called away from a hurried meal, appe- 
tite perhaps still keen, he may return later, only to find 
himself satisfied with the food already taken. The 
nerve impulses of satiety take a little time to report, 
hence the advantage of slow eating. If one must eat 
hurriedly, his only safety lies in eating within safe 
limits as to the amount, and stopping his meal while 
yet the appetite may call for more. 

Indigestible food substances, wrong combinations, eat- 
ing at too frequent intervals, all play their part in caus- 
ing slow and difficult digestion, and thus hindering the 
normal passage of the food through the alimentary 
tract. 

and the pancreatic juice flow through a common opening into the duodenum, 
neutralizing by their alkalinity the acidity of the food material from the stomach. 
As the contents of the duodenum become neutral, or alkaline, the pylorus relaxes, 
and more of the gradually liquefying food, or chyme, passes out of the stomach. 
Again the reflex effect of the acid fluid on the duodenal mucous membrane causes 
a contraction of the pyloric sphincter, and the stomach outlet is closed, and the 
same alternating process is continued until stomach digestion is complete and the 
organ is at rest. The length of time required depends upon the amount, kinds, 
and combination of foods taken into the stomach, and varies normally from two 
to six hours. 



DEFECTIVE FOOD ANALYSIS 23 

Three Results of Delay 

Stagnation in the stomach or intestine, whatever the 
cause, means one or all of three abnormal processes. 
Food must be properly digested and absorbed, or carbo- 
hydrates will ferment, protein will putrefy, fats will 
become rancid. These processes take place in the diges- 
tive canal as quickly as outside it, and often sooner, be- 
cause the conditions are ideal for germ growth. 

In the stomach, because of the presence of the germi- 
cidal hydrochloric acid, germ activity is hindered and 
under normal conditions made impossible. But under 
the conditions mentioned above, fermentation often 
takes place, resulting in " sour stomach," gas formation, 
and a general bad state of affairs. 

Germs at Work 

In the intestine, the food having been longer on the 
way and the secretions being alkaline instead of acid, 
germ activity goes on to a great extent. Under normal 
conditions this may even assist in the dissolution of the 
food ; but very quickly, under conditions of slow digestion 
and retention, food decomposition becomes abnormal, 
fermentation and putrefaction are set up, resulting in 
the formation of gases and irritating substances that 
greatly interfere with peristalsis and with the comple- 
tion of digestion. The amino acids, instead of being 
allowed to pass unhindered through the mucous mem- 
brane into the blood, are broken down by the germs into 
decomposition products. Poisons are formed which, be- 
ing absorbed, often overwhelm the liver (see page 16), 
get by into the blood stream, and slowly but surely in- 
toxicate the individual. 

Self-Poisoning 

As the result of carbohydrate fermentation, alcohol 
and kindred products may be formed, the absorption of 



24 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

which may produce symptoms of chronic alcoholism in 
the total abstainer. The absorption of the products of 
protein putrefaction, becoming excessive and acute, 
spells " bilious attacks " or perhaps " ptomaine poison- 
ing," but oftener in a chronic way these poisons grad- 
ually do their work, causing abnormal fatigue, lowered 
nerve tone, irritable nerves, headaches, sallow skin, di- 
minished vitality, and functional disturbances of any or 
all of the organs. 

Thus in this great preparation chamber there may be 
prepared for absorption, poisons as well as food. The 
food itself being incompletely digested, much of it may 
not be absorbed, and so may never reach its destination. 
The cells, instead of receiving their needed nourishment, 
are handicapped by poisons, and their activity is en- 
feebled. This condition of poisoning from one's own 
digestive tract is known as " auto-intoxication," or self- 
poisoning, and is widespread, lying at the foundation of 
many of the ailments and diseases that beset the civ- 
ilized race. 

A Reckoning Time 

With those who are naturally robust it may seem that 
/ the limit of work imposed upon the stomach and intes- 
tine need only be determined by the appetite and in- 
clination of the individual. But be the digestive organs 
ever so strong, with the ingestion of incompletely mas- 
ticated food in unlimited kind, variety, and amount, 
perhaps improperly prepared or in combination with 
substances difficult of digestion, there will come a time 
when these faithful organs will be unable to do the 
work given them to do, even though the amount of 
work be decreased to normal limits. And often long 
before symptoms directly referable to the digestive tract 
manifest themselves, the amount of putrefaction may 



DEFECTIVE FOOD ANALYSIS 25 

have reached the stage where the vitality is greatly low- 
ered, signs of toxemia appear, and gradually but surely 
the health and efficiency of the individual is under- 
mined. 

There are many who, having a smaller amount of in- 
herent strength in the digestive organs, feel sooner the 
results of the conventional careless habits of eating. 
Not realizing the cause of their earlier symptoms, they 
continue in their dietetic mistakes until a radical pro- 
gram which admits to the alimentary canal only the 
simplest and most easily digested foods, is necessary to 
give the organs of alimentation an opportunity to catch 
up, as it were, and to lay in a store of reserve strength 
that they may, perchance at some future time, be able 
to carry on a normal amount of work. 

A Type 

This type of person is sometimes spoken of as the 
auto-intoxication type, and he is found in all stages and 
in all grades. Under this head comes the one who eats 
but grows thinner, and wonders why; the one who suf- 
fers from the occasional bilious attack and certain type 
of sick headache; the nervously exhausted person with 
aches too numerous to mention and symptoms as varied 
as temperament and susceptibility may differ ; the dys- 
peptic, sallow, thin, despondent, suffering from indiges- 
tion, gastric distress, constipation, and " gas," the di- 
gestive organs, unequal to their task, accomplishing the 
little they do by much coaxing, the tenderest of care, 
and artificial aid. 

Anemia 

The cause of anemia and serious organic disorders of 
the nervous system is coming more and more to be con- 
sidered referable to excessive putrefaction in the in- 
testine, with slow absorption of poisons. 



26 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

Thus we have a picture of some of the various con- 
ditions often resulting when the first steps in body food 
analysis or reduction are not carried on properly. No 
one can estimate the reserve strength of his digestive 
organs. • Often the one who early has evidence of a 
weak digestion, is fortunate because he is of necessity 
led to form careful dietetic habits. And therefore it 
were well could all adopt a sensible, sane plan of eating, 
following natural law, eating for strength and not for 
drunkenness, wisely selecting and preparing their food, 
and partaking of it in such a way as to assist rather 
than hinder nature in her efforts to utilize it to the best 
advantage. 



" Life is shortened by death and narrowed 
by invalidity." — Fisher. 

" To keep the body in a healthy condition, to 
develop its strength, that every part of the 
living machinery may act harmoniously, should 
be the first study of our lives." — White. 



CHAPTER IV 

DEFECTIVE FOOD ANALYSIS (Continued); 
SUBOXIDATION 

Results More Remote 

As has already been suggested, there are those who 
suffer little, if any, from digestive disturbance, because 
they are endowed by nature with great vitality and 
organic strength. 

They can " digest anything," can eat at any time, 
anything their palate calls for, and never suffer the dis- 
comforts of indigestion. One's first thought might be, 
How fortunate are these! but that is not entirely true 
of them; for their carelessness and ignorance in connec- 
tion with alimentation will lead to a condition of ill 
health more remote perhaps, but as truly the result of 
dietetic errors, as are those of the previous class, and 
often these results prove more disastrous in the end. 

Another Type 

These diseases come under the head of metabolic dis- 
orders, and, in the light of our comparison of the body 
to a stove, we will speak of them as conditions due to 
suboxidation and of the individual suffering from 
them as belonging to the suboxidation type. In these 
persons oxidation is imperfect, elimination of cell waste 
is incomplete, the tissues become clogged with sub- 
stances which should be eliminated, the grates, or kid- 
neys, do their work incompletely, and " the stove 
smokes." The " fires are banked." 

As has already been made plain in a previous chap- 
ter, protein metabolism results in the formation of a 

27 



28 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

solid ash which is in the form of urea, uric acid,^ pu- 
rine bodies, creatine, and certain other related sub- 
stances. The most important of these is urea, in which 
form most of the nitrogen is eliminated. 

Rheumatism 

In order for this ash to be properly eliminated it must 
be finely divided by a process of oxidation and analysis. 
Imperfect metabolism is always associated with sub- 
oxidation, and the result is an excess of an incompletely 
oxidized protein ash, which backs up in the blood stream 
as " clinkers." These accumulate in the joints, produc- 
ing rheumatism, so called, and in the muscles they are 
the cause of lumbago and myalgia; along the nerve 
sheaths their irritating presence may produce neuritis; 
accumulating in the blood vessel walls, they cause the 
arteries to lose their supple, elastic quality and to become 
hard, stiff, and brittle, which in the end means high blood 
pressure, an overworked heart, and often apoplexy, an- 
gina pectoris, and heart failure. The kidneys in their 
effort to eliminate an excess of waste, and that in an im- 
perfectly prepared form, are overworked, and Bright's 
disease may be the result. 

Conditions of suboxidation are never limited to pro- 
tein metabolism alone, but there is ever an associated 
suboxidation of carbohydrates and fats ; in fact, it seems, 
often, to be the imperfect metabolism of an excess of 
energy foods that is the causative factor in the produc- 
tion of deficient protein oxidation. (See page 20.) The 
body stove being clogged with the products of incomplete 



1 Uric acid (C3H4N4O3) and the purine bodies, as xanthine, hypoxanthine, etc., 
are very closely related both chemically and physiologically to each other and to 
the caffeine (C8H]oN40o) of tea and coffee and the theobromine (CtHsNiGo) of 
cocoa. Uric acid and the purines result principally from the rnetabolism of the 
nucleoproteins. Nucleoprotein is abundant in meat, especially _ in glandular tis- 
sue, as liver, sweetbreads, etc. A purine-free diet is one in which meats and tea 
and coffee are excluded. Purines are found also to an extent in some other foods, 
as, e. g., eggs and legumes. 



DEFECTIVE FOOD ANALYSIS 29 

carbohydrate and fat metabolism, cannot carry on the 
active oxidation processes necessary to burn up the pro- 
tein wastes, whether or not excessive. 

A Cause of Obesity 

Carbohydrate, containing the same chemical elements 
as fat, is readily changed over in the tissues into fat, and 
these two food classes, instead of being used up in energy 
production, may be stored excessively as adipose tissue, 
and this often at the expense of muscle. 

So in this type we have the obese, rheumatic, gouty 
individual, short of breath, for whom exercise becomes 
difficult, thus adding another factor in the causation of 
the ever-increasing condition of suboxidation. 

Ills Due to Wrong Habits 

But this suboxidation type of person has a good di- 
gestion, with its accompanying good appetite, is fond of 
rich, concentrated food, and, unaware that his ills are 
directly due to his wrong habits of eating, he goes blindly 
on overloading his body furnace with fuel that it cannot 
oxidize, or eliminate, and that only serves to increase the 
clinkers that hinder the burning of the vital fires. 

Often it is not the bulk of the food intake, but its con- 
centration in fats and sweets, that determines its excess, 
and as we study further the question of food values, it 
will be seen how easily food can be taken in excess of 
body needs. 

While some may suffer from underfeeding, yet in con- 
ditions of prosperity the diseases of the race due to im- 
proper alimentation are the result, almost entirely, of an 
excess of food, rather than the result of a deficient 
amount, a condition of underfeeding sometimes following 
on as the result of conditions caused primarily by a too- 
abundant food intake. 



30 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

Important Conditions 

Again we will enumerate the conditions necessary for 
perfect oxidation and thereby make evident the remedy: 

1. Proper kind and amount of fuel — a properly bal- 
anced food supply in direct proportion to body needs. 

2. Open drafts: (a) an ample supply of oxygen 
through the lungs; (b) the carrying of the oxygen to 
every cell by a free circulation of the blood, made pos- 
sible only by exercise. 

3. A finely divided ash, free from clinkers, so that 
thorough elimination may be possible. This may neces- 
sitate a limited intake of fuel for a time, giving the body 
a chance to burn up what is already on hand in excess. 

Exercise 

The subject of eating cannot be separated from that 
of the oxygen we breathe in, and the exercise we aie able 
to take. An ample supply of oxygen must reach the 
lungs, but oxygen which goes no farther than the lungs 
does the tissues no good. It must be carried throughout 
the body by the blood, a perfect circulation of which is 
possible only under conditions of more or less vigorous 
exercise. The freely moving blood stream carries both 
fuel and oxygen to the cells and thoroughly cleanses tis- 
sue, muscle, and organ from waste matter, carrying 
these wastes to their avenues of elimination. 

Often the person suffering from suboxidation reaches 
the point where, because of obesity, fatty heart, or high 
blood pressure, exercise is impossible. Under these con- 
ditions the problem of increasing the circulation and the 
metabolic processes becomes largely one of diet regula- 
tion, the exercise, of necessity, being largely passive, as 
in massage and manual Swedish movements. 

The intelligent treatment of obesity, with its allied con- 
ditions, by diet adjustment upon the basis of measuring 



DEFECTIVE FOOD ANALYSIS 31 

the fuel supply is most satisfactory, the treatment of no 
abnormal condition promising more sure results.- 

Defective food analysis, whether in the digestive tract 
or in the tissues, lessens the alkalinity of all body fluids, 
producing a more nearly acid condition of the blood. 
Acids are formed as the result of fermentation and ab- 
normal food decomposition in the intestinal tract, and as 
the result of cell waste and katabolism in the tissues.^ 
These wastes, not being properly oxidized and eliminated, 
lessen the alkalinity of the blood because of the excess of 
acid products. (See page 52.) 

While all of these conditions do not come to one indi- 
vidual, and to many only in a minor degree, yet the ever- 
increasing occurrence of these diseases with, because of 
them, the lowered life expectancy of the man past forty, 
bears witness to the fact that metabolic disorders are be- 
coming more prevalent and must be reckoned with in the 
struggle for race conservation. 

As diseases of metabolism are so common and most of 
them due to an improper food supply, the understanding 
of food values, as to both quality and quantity, becomes 
a very important matter. How we may measure our food 
intake easily, but scientifically, and make this knowledge 
of practical value, we shall consider in our next chapter. 



^ To those who desire to study more fully the dietetic treatment of obesity, we 
would recommend that amusing and instructive little book by Dr. Lulu Hunt-Peters, 
" Diet and Health with Key to the Calories." 

^ There is a difference in the acidity of the ash resulting from the metabolism 
of various foods, e. g., the metabolism of meat yields an acid ash, that of vege- 
tables an alkaline ash. Most fruits are base forming, thus increasing the alkalinity 
of the blood (see Chapter VIII), while cereals furnish in their metabolism a pre- 
ponderance of acid. 



" Our bodies, in other ivords, should he such 
good machines that their running will cause no 
creaking or jolting." — Hare. 



CHAPTER V 
THE FOOD UNIT, OR CALORIE 

How Much Fuel? 

Of the seven food classes, three are oxidized in the body 
and may be measured by the calorie, or heat unit. In 
this way we may as easily measure our body intake of 
fuel as can the manufacturer who estimates the amount 
of coal necessary to furnish the energy required to run 
the machinery of his plant. Every ounce of protein, fat, 
or carbohydrate taken into the tissues produces a definite 
amount of heat. Heat can always be converted into 
energy. 

The Calorimeter 

The instrument used in measuring the heat value of 
food is called a calorimeter, and simply described is this : 
A double chamber — in the inner chamber a given quan- 
tity of food, e. g., an ounce of sugar; in the outer cham- 
ber a given quantity of water of a known temperature. 
The food in the inner chamber is ignited by an electric 
spark. When the burning is complete, the temperature 
of the water in the outer chamber is taken and the in- 
crease in temperature shows the energy or caloric value 
of that food. 

The Calorie 

The amount of heat required to raise the temperature 
of a pound of water 4° F., or of one kilogram of water 
1° C, is a calorie. The slow combustion of an ounce of 
food in the body tissues will produce the same amount 
of heat as if oxidized rapidly in a calorimeter. 

By experiment it has been found that the heat value 
of a gram of pure water-free protein, e. g., the casein 
32 



THE FOOD UNIT 33 

of milk, egg albumen, fiber of meat, is four calories; of 
a gram of pure carbohydrate, as starch or sugar, four 
calories; but of a gram of fat, more than two times as 
much, or nine calories.^ An ounce equals about thirty 
grams; therefore, multiplying the above figures by 
thirty, gives the number of calories per ounce. 

Different foods contain varying amounts of these oxi- 
dizable substances; accordingly, the caloric value of 
foodstuffs depends upon the amount of protein, fat, or 
carbohydrate they contain ; e. g., an ordinary slice of 
bread weighing I34 ounces, or 38 grams, contains ap- 
proximately 4 grams of protein, 2 grams of fat, and 16 
grams of carbohydrate, the 16 grams remaining being 
water and cellulose. 

4 grams of protein equals 16 calories 

2 grams of fat equals 18 calories 

16 grams of carbohydrate equals . . 64 calories 

Total 98 calories 

Or approximately 100 calories. 

By a little study, one may very easily become familiar 
with the approximate values of common foods and be 
able to arrive at some conclusion as to what one's daily 
ration should be, both as to its amount and as to the 
proportion of food elements. Many would be surprised 
to find how far short their diet comes of the ideal, which, 
if followed, with proper habits of eating, would result in 
the maximum of health and strength. 

A Practical Application 

It is very easy to remember that one slice of bread 
contains 100 food units, one egg 75, a glass of milk 150, 
an average potato 125, a tablespoonful of average cream 
about 40, a serving of cooked cereal 75 to 100 calories. 



^ More accurately — 1 gram of protein equals 4.1 calories; 1 gram of carbohy- 
drates equals 4.1 calories ; and 1 gram of fat equals 9.3 calories. 

3 



34 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

an ordinary serving of green and leaf vegetables 25 to 
50, depending upon the amount of fat or milk added, 
average serving of legumes 100 to 150 calories ; also that 
desserts are higher in food value, ranging from 125 
calories for a simple custard or junket to 350 for one 
sixth of a pie. (See table of food values in the Ap- 
pendix.) These and many others in a short time become 
very familiar to the housewife interested in food values. 

Food Requirements 

The amount of food required by an individual varies 
with height, age, sex, and muscular activity, but for the 
average person 2,000 calories may be taken as a working 
basis. One above average height will need more per- 
haps. Other things being equal, men need about 10 per 
cent more than women. If engaged in active, muscular 
labor, the requirements may be 2,500 to 3,000, or even 
more in the case of a farmer, a lumberman, or a soldier. 
Those of sedentary habits often do better on less than 
2,000, or even as low as 1,500 to 1,800 calories. This 
will depend upon the height, temperament, and natural 
tissue activity. 

An obese person or one suffering from the results of 
imperfect oxidation, as manifested by rheumatic joints 
or high blood pressure, may do well for a time on as 
low as from 1,000 to 1,200 food units daily, with 
marked relief from symptoms ; and, if obese, a reduction 
of from one to four pounds a week. 

How Much Protein? 

The amount of protein needed does not vary within 
such wide limits. The amount remains more nearly 
constant, and should yield from 200 to 300 calories in 
twenty-four hours, even though the total ration be low. 
On the average ration this would be about 10 per cent 



THE FOOD UNIT 35 

of the entire daily food intake, but if one does well on 
the low ration as suggested above, the protein must not 
be reduced proportionately, but should be kept near the 
normal of at least 200 calories ; for the body, not being 
able to store this repair material in excess, must have it 
supplied to it in regular daily amounts. 

How Much Fat? 

The fat intake should yield from 400 to 800 food units 
a day.= A study of food values soon makes it very evident 
that the average individual takes much more than this 
amount in his daily food ration. The remainder of the 
total calories is made up of carbohydrate. Fat and car- 
bohydrate can to an extent be substituted one for the 
other, but an excess of fat should be avoided. This we 
will discuss in a later chapter. 

Food Values 

Those who may want to familiarize themselves more 
thoroughly with food values, we would refer to tables 
of caloric food values Nos. I and II, in the Appen- 
dix. Table I gives the approximate energy value of the 
cooked and ready-to-serve foods commonly used. An 
effort has been made to arrange them so that the house- 
wife may be able to see at a glance the food value of 
the average helping of the various dishes appearing upon 
her table, and the proportion of protein, fat, and carbo- 
hydrate contained in each. These percentages are of 
the total numher of food units and not of the iveight. 
Fractions and decimals have been disregarded in most 
cases. 

Because of the variation in recipes for the same dish, 
many of the figures in the tables can only be approxi- 



2 This need not be in the form of free fat. Many foods contain a high proportion 
of fat, as milk, eggs, olives, nuts. 



36 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 



mate, but given the ingredients, the value of any dish 
may be estimated with a fair degree of accuracy by the 
use of Table II. (See page 339.) This table gives the 
value of staple foodstuffs, both raw and cooked, used in 
cooking and in the making up of various recipes. From 
this table the housewife may easily estimate the calories 
contained in a serving of any dish she may prepare. 
Take for example the following recipe : 

Spinach Soup 



C 0) 



cs >> w 



See p. 344 
See p. 343 
See p. 340 
See p. 342 



Spinach, 1 quart (4 oz.) ... 

Onion, 1 thin slice 

Stale bread, 2 slices 

Skim milk, 1 quart 

For six servings divide by 6 



26 
128 



6.5 
.5 
12 

24 



163.5 



43 



27 



12 



162 
192 



27.5 
5 
200 
344 



370 



576.5 



62 



96 



Therefore, each serving of soup will contain 96 calories, 
of which 27 are protein, 7 are fat, and 62 are carbohy- 
drate. 

Put the spinach and onion through the meat chopper, 
following with the bread to prevent waste. Put into a 
double boiler with the milk, and cook until tender. This 
is a relatively high protein dish, more than one fourth 
of the calories being protein, and shows a good use for 
skim milk and stale bread. Try it. 

These tables are simply for reference, and in no way 
need add to the housewife's burdens. But those inter- 
ested will find them very simple and easy to use, and a 
great help when it is desired " to take inventory," as it 
were, of the food situation in any home, or in any in- 
dividual case. In a very short time the housewife may 
find that she has a mental picture of foods, as to their 
energy value, far different than she ever had before; 



THE FOOD UNIT 37 

and she can at any time she wishes check up as to the 
amount of food any member of her family may be tak- 
ing. More important even than to determine the total 
amount is the ease with which she may be able to find 
out how much protein she is furnishing the members 
of her family. This we shall discuss further in the 
next chapter. 



" All that is take7i into the stomach above 
that ivhich the system can convert into good 
blood, clogs the living machine. 



" The system receives less nourishment from 
too great a quantity of food, even of the right 
quality, than from a moderate quantity taken 
at regular intervals." — White. 



CHAPTER VI 
A BALANCED RATION — PROTEIN 

Ample Supply Important 

As has been made plain in previous chapters, it is 
very necessary that the supply of oxidizable food be cor- 
rect, not only as to total amount, but also as regards 
proper balance. Each article of food eaten should bear 
its proper relation to all the others, and to the entire 
intake for the meal. While this is true of all the food 
elements, it is undoubtedly in the normal adjustment of 
the protein part of the diet that mistakes are most often 
made and with the most serious results. While an ex- 
cess of fat is harmful, yet a comparatively small amount 
may not be deleterious, providing it is of the right 
kind and the necessary food units are made up in car- 
bohydrates. But with the protein, error may easily be 
made on either side, and while much has been said in 
regard to protein in excess, quite as much stress should 
be laid on the importance of getting enough. 

Tissue repair being dependent upon nitrogen, it is ob- 
vious that enough protein is needed in the food to supply 
the necessary nitrogen to rebuild worn-out cells.^ The 



1 The normal adult body should be kept in nitrogenous equilibrium, i. e., the 
protein intake equal to the outgo. The intake is proportionate to the food ingested ; 
the outgo is indicated by the nitrogen eliminated in the urine, which can be de- 
termined by laboratory tests. The body is out of nitrogenous equilibrium when the 
protein intake is not sufficient to replace worn-out tissue, as in cases of depleted 
food supply, or in disease with insufficient food ingestion or assimilation. Here 
the intake is less than the outgo, and if continued, death must finally result. 

The body is also out of nitrogenous equilibrium when protein is used not only 
to replace worn-out cells, but also to construct new tissue. This is the case in 
convalescence from wasting disease, as in fevers, tuberculosis, etc. In these cases 
the ingestion is in excess of the elimination, and should continue so until a normal 
balance is reached. Normally the growing child takes in more protein than is 
eliminated, because of continually developing cells and tissues. Here again the 
body is out of nitrogenous equilibrium, but necessarily so, and should be on the 
safe side of an ample supply. In some cases of suboxidation the nitrogen eliminated 
is less than the amount ingested, because of an excessive intake and insufficient 
activity of the organs of elimination. This lack of balance is abnormal and re- 
sults in disease. 

38 



A BALANCED RATION — PROTEIN 39 

ideal balance is the one that supplies to the tissues the 
amount and kind of protein essential for its specific pur- 
pose and not a great deal in excess of that amount. 
Protein cannot be stored in the tissues in excess, and so 
must be supplied to the body in regular daily amounts, 
the amount needed varying within much narrower limits 
than that of fat and carbohydrate and much less depend- 
ent upon varying conditions of exercise. 

Protein Ration Constant 

Unless engaged in very active muscular exercise, 2,000 
to 2,500 food units is sufficient for the person of average 
height, and many leading sedentary lives do much better 
on from 1,600 to 1,800 in twenty-four hours. All, how- 
ever, need from 200 to 300 calories daily of protein. If 
one requires 2,000 calories total and 200 calories of pro- 
tein, the amount of protein necessary would be 1-10, or 
10 per cent of the total ration. But if an individual of 
sedentary habits needs only 1,600 calories, total, he 
would still need the 200 protein units, making his nec- 
essary protein I21/2 per cent. It is very important, then, 
to bear in mind that the amount of protein should re- 
main comparatively constant, and that if, for any reason, 
the total food intake be low, the protein must not be 
materially reduced. 

This is well illustrated in the treatment of obesity. If 
the daily amount of protein be kept up to nearly normal, 
a marked reduction in the total food intake may be made 
without inconvenience to the patient. (See footnote 2, 
page 31.) 

An Obesity Cure 

On a ration of 1,000 or 1,200 food units daily, includ- 
ing the needed protein, 200 to 250 calories, a weekly 
loss in weight of two to four pounds may be accom- 
plished and the individual not suffer from hunger, but 



40 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

maintain his strength and discharge his regular daily 
duties. In fact, the body being gradually relieved of an 
unnecessary burden, various associated ailments due to 
suboxidation (see Chapter IV) disappear and one feels 
well rewarded for any self-denial necessitated. Such a 
regimen should, however, be carried out under the su- 
pervision of a physician, and is often combined with 
graduated exercise and tonic baths. 

An abnormally low protein aliment leads to anemia, 
tuberculosis, malnutrition, nervous exhaustion, and other 
chronic and functional disorders. 

HoMT to Know 

But how may we know whether or not our protein 
ration is properly related to our total daily intake? By 
referring to the tables of food values as given in the 
Appendix the percentage of protein in various foods 
may readily be seen, and, with a knowledge of these pro- 
portions, the higher protein foods may be combined with 
the foods lower in nitrogen in such a way as to main- 
tain the necessary protein percentage, thus giving to the 
body this tissue-building element in the normal amount. 

Overeat and Undereat at the Same Time 

Those who partake freely of meat are in no danger of 
deficiency in protein, their danger lies in getting an over- 
supply; but vegetarians often make the mistake of un- 
balancing their daily ration so as to overeat and to 
undereat at the same time. Their foods are often com- 
bined in such a way that it is necessary for them to 
overeat of the total amount in order to obtain the body 
requirement of nitrogenous food; thus we frequently 
find such an individual poorly nourished and unsatisfied, 
while at the same time he suffers the effects of overeat- 
ing and indigestion. 



A BALANCED RATION — PROTEIN 41 

Protein Balance Disturbed 

In the preparation of food the protein balance is often 
disturbed by the addition of an excess of fat or sugar 
or both. Take for example an Irish potato containing 
100 calories, ten calories, or 10 per cent, of which are 
protein. Add to this 50 calories of butter. The protein 
calories still remaining ten, the percentage of protein is 
now 6-/j, Likewise, beans, always considered a high pro- 
tein dish, may be made relatively a medium or even a low 
protein food by the addition of a free amount of fat in 
their preparation. An ordinary serving of oatmeal with 
whole milk contains about 150 calories, of which 27 
calories, or 18 per cent, are protein. If to this, 50 
calories of sugar are added, and cream, with its high 
percentage of fat, is used instead of milk, the serving 
has been reduced from a high to a low protein dish, the 
amount of protein being even as low as 8 per cent of 
the total food units. If cream were used but no sugar, 
the percentage of protein would drop to 9 1/2- The addi- 
tion of the cream and sugar greatly increases the total 
food value without adding any protein. 

Bread as a Protein Food 

Even the homely but much depended upon article of 
diet, bread, has a goodly proportion of protein, 12 to 16 
per cent. (See table, Appendix.) But as ordinarily 
eaten with butter, marmalade, or jelly, it descends 
greatly in the scale as a protein food. For example, 
one slice of whole-wheat bread equals 100 calories, of 
which 15 calories are protein. Adding to this 50 calories 
of butter, the total food value becomes 150; the protein 
calories, still 15, make the relation of protein to the 
total just 10 per cent. Foods served in this way may 
be most excellent foods, but if every dish is so prepared 
that it contains 10 per cent or less protein, it is quite 



42 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

evident that there is great danger of the protein intake 
being too low, unless the entire food ration be kept high, 
which might in many cases make the total more than 
necessary for body needs. 

Then, too, it must be remembered that many foods, as 
fruit, desserts, sweets, etc., contain practically no pro- 
tein, so that somewhere in the daily ration there must 
be food containing much more than 10 per cent protein. 
When energy foods are taken in concentration, it is nec- 
essary to use concentrated protein food in the form of 
meat, milk, or eggs, in order to maintain the normal pro- 
tein balance. This is one reason for the need of milk 
and eggs in the diet of the ordinary vegetarian. The 
converse is obvious. If one is to limit his concentration 
of protein food, and this is in many cases desirable, he 
must minimize the amount of his concentrated energy 
food, deriving his necessary calories from natural un- 
refined products. (See page 211.) 

The Brain Worker 

We may consider as an exception to this the farmer 
who needs from 3,000 to 3,500 food units daily, or per- 
haps more. He easily gets his necessary 250 to 300 
calories protein, even while living on medium and low 
protein foods. He uses up the excess of carbohydrate 
and fat in the energy he expends in his active labor ; but 
the one who needs, because of a sedentary life, to be 
careful not to overeat, must take foods richer in protein. 
Brain workers, or those who expend nervous rather than 
muscular energy, need a comparatively high protein 
ration with a low total intake; for while they need 
nearly as much protein as the farmer, they may need 
only about half his total number of calories. They must 
maintain a protein balance of 1 : 6 or 1 : 8, perhaps, in- 
stead of 1 : 9 or 1 : 10. They must, therefore, live on the 
higher protein foods. 



A BALANCED RATION — PROTEIN 43 

The Convalescent 

A person convalescing from a wasting disease must 
have ample protein to rebuild tissue, but often his di- 
gestive organs are not equal to the task of caring for a 
total amount of 2,000 or more calories. So the diet for 
such a one must be so planned that the proportion of 
the tissue-building elements be high in order that 
enough of this may be supplied, even though the entire 
daily intake must of necessity be lower than normal. 

If You Are Too Thin 

Many thin people would gain in weight more readily 
on a diet supplying a goodly amount of protein, with less 
of the carbohydrate and fat and even a low total daily 
ration, than on one in which the entire food intake is 
pushed to an extreme degree, imposing an extra tax on 
the digestive organs in their effort to care for an exces- 
sive amount of food material which never can be got 
ready for absorption and utilization by the tissues. 

Complete Proteins 

There is another important phase of the protein ques- 
tion that must be considered. We have referred in 
Chapter II to the complex structure of proteins and to 
the fact that complete proteins contain some seventeen 
nitrogenous combinations called amino acids. These 
seventeen parts may be arranged in many different ways 
to form various kinds of body tissue. Proteins, in order 
to repair every kind of tissue, must contain all of these 
seventeen units, and such proteins are said to be com- 
plete. There are other proteins in which some of 
these important combinations of nitrogen, or " building 
stones," are missing and so are incomplete. Some of the 
important amino acids are, tyrosine, tryptophane, leu- 
cine, lysine, glycocoll, cystine, histidine, and arginine. 



44 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

Quality as Well as Quantity 

It is quite evident, then, that all proteins are not of 
equal value to the body and that a diet may be deficient 
in the quality of its protein as well as in the quantity. 
While this question is not yet fully understood, never- 
theless, as the result of animal experimentation, some- 
thing of the nature of the various food proteins has been 
ascertained. For example, it has been shown that some 
proteins will maintain but will not induce growth. Rats 
fed on corn fail to grow, but develop properly if their 
diet is supplemented by casein of milk, egg yolks, the 
proteins of other seeds, as the glutenin from wheat, 
glycinin from the soy bean, globulin from squash seed, 
globulin from cotton seed, excelsin from Brazil nuts, and 
globulin from maize, or corn.- 

Grain Proteins 

It has been found that an animal does not thrive if 
fed on a single cereal grain, even though the amount of 
protein be theoretically correct and the total food units 
be sufficient. This seems to be due, in part at least, to 
the fact that many of the grain proteins are incomplete. 
This does not mean that grams are not good foods, but 
simply that the diet must be varied enough so that in- 
complete proteins may be supplemented by complete pro- 
teins or with proteins supplying the missing links. 



^ Quoting from L. B. Mendel, who has done much work along this line : " When 
the gliadin of wheat, a prominent protein of this seed, is fed as the sole protein, 
adult animals are suitably maintained ; but growing animals cease to increase in 
body weight, remaining in nutritive equilibrium without growth unless the amino- 
acid lysine is added to the gliadin food. Thereupon growth is promptly resumed. 
The explanation becomes apparent in the fact that gliadin is .almost entirely de- 
void of the amino-acid lysine ; and inasmuch as this is obviously needed for new 
protein construction, growth cannot pi-oceed until the missing unit is supplied. 
Again zein, the most conspicuous protein of the maize kernel, fails to yield either 
lysine or tryptophane or glycocoll, and accordingly is entirely inadequate to meet 
the nitrogenous needs of the animals in respect to either maintenance or growth. 
It may be fed in the greatest abundance, yet the animals decline in health unless 
the zein is supplemented by some more perfect protein. If the amino-acid trypto- 
phane is added to the imperfect maize, protein maintenance of body weight without 
growth is promptly established. ... If both tryptophane and lysine are added 
to the zein, the diet thereupon becomes suitable for growth." — Journal of American 
Medical Association, Sept. 5, 1914. 



A BALANCED RATION — PROTEIN 45 

Combination Important 

Two proteins, both incomplete, may be deficient in 
different ways so that the combination of two or more 
incomplete proteins may be sufficient to supply all the 
nitrogenous combinations and thus make a complete pro- 
tein food.^ 

The Protein of Corn 

A single grain usually contains more than one protein, 
as, e. g., wheat with its gliadin, a protein that will main- 
tain body weight, and its glutenin, one which will stimu- 
late growth ; and while zein, a prominent protein of corn, 
is unable to even maintain the body, yet corn also con- 
tains protein that is a globulin, which will maintain 
and even cause growth. If intelligently combined with 
other foods, corn is a valuable addition to the dietary. 
It, however, could not be depended upon as a sole source 
of protein. It is interesting to note that the protein of 
green vegetables will supplement the protein of corn 
or of any other cereal. 

The proteins of meat, milk, and eggs have been found 
to be complete in themselves. Accordingly a diet of 
grains and milk is a complete food in so far as its pro- 
teins are concerned. Recent experiments have shown 
that the protein of the peanut and the soy bean are of 
very good character. 

Know Foods; Avoid Monotony 

Again we would emphasize the need for a knowledge, 
by the vegetarian, of foods and their values, that the 
meatless diet may not prove to be a deficient one. A 
complete diet without the use of flesh food is very pos- 



^ The proteins of the pea or bean, when taken as the sole source of nitrogen, 
are of very low biologic value, and they will not supplement the protein of corn, 
though they improve the protein of wheat. Bean proteins will not supplement those 
of oats, though pea proteins and oat proteins are said to supplement each other. 



46 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

sible and a great advantage, but care must be taken that 
intelligent combinations be made and that monotony be 
avoided. Green vegetables and fruits supply many ele- 
ments lacking in grains, and with a knowledge of food 
values and an intelligent daily variation in foods served, 
one need be in no danger of limiting his diet to one de- 
ficient either in quantity or quality of protein. But how 
important that the housewife be educated along these 
lines and so be understandingly eflficient as she carries 
on the important work of supplying the family table. 

Following are grouped some of the more important 
staple protein foods in such a way as to show at a 
glance those having the highest proportion of the ni- 
trogenous element.* With these, many attractive dishes 
may be prepared, and, as meat substitutes, supply the 
necessary protein. 

Class 1 

Very high protein foods (foods of high total food 
value of which the protein is above 20 per cent). 

Food Percentage of Protein 

Beans, Lima 21 

Beans, navy 25 

Beans, kidney or pink 28 . 

Beans, soy ^ 32 

Buttermilk 23 

Eggs 33 

Cottage Cheese 53 



■• The percentages of protein in these tables are of the total food values and 
not of the weight. 

= Soy beans, introduced into the United States more than one hundred years ago, 
primarily for use as a forage crop, are in reality one of the most nutritious of the 
legumes when used as human food, according to specialists of the United States 
Department of Agriculture. . . . Since they furnish proteins and valuable fat, 
they are especially important to turn to as an emergency addition to the usual 
dietary or as a substitute for other foods furnishing protein and fat. Moreover, 
the fact that they contain no starch makes them valuable for invalids who cannot 
eat starchy foods.— Food Thrift Series No. 2, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 



A BALANCED RATION — PROTEIN 47 

Gluten meal or flour (40 per cent) .... 40 

Lentils 27 

Meat, lean 33i/2tol00 

Nuttolene 29 

Peas 25 

Protose 46.5 

Skim milk 37 

Class 2 

High protein foods (foods with high total food value 
of which the protein is from 15 to 20 per cent). 

Food Percentage of Protein 

Bread, whole-wheat 16 

Gluten meal or flour (20 per cent) .... 20 

Granola 15 

Granuto 17 

Milk (whole) 19 

Oatmeal 18 

Peanuts 20 

Rice (whole) 16 

Class 3 

Medium protein foods (foods with high total food 

value of which the protein is from 11 to 15 per cent). 

Food Percentage of Protein 

Almonds 15 

Bread, rye 14 

Bread, white 13 

Bread, Graham 14 

Cracked wheat 14 

Cream of Wheat or Farina 12 

Macaroni 14 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit 14 

Wheat flakes 14 



48 the home dietitian 

Class 4 

Foods with low total food value of which a high pro- 
portion is protein.^ See Chapter IX. 

Food Percentage of Protein 

Asparagus 32 

Beets 24 

Cabbage 50 

Carrots 14 

Cauliflower '55 

Celery 24 

Cucumbers 20 

Eggplant 21 

Greens — beet, dandelion, etc 28 

Lettuce 25 

Radishes 18 

Spinach 32 

String beans 40 

Tomatoes 21 

Turnips 20 



" Complete proteins, or proteins containing all of the tissue building stones, are 
found in the foods of Class 4 as well as in the outer layer of all other vegetables, 
the outer layer and germ of grain, and in milk, eggs, and meat. 



" Lack of balance of the food is a fault sec- 
ond only in importance to actual ivant of some 
essential ingredient." — McCarrison. 



CHAPTER VII 

A BALANCED RATION (Continued) — FAT 

A Concentrated Fuel 

Fat makes up an important part of the dietary. It is 
fuel for the body in a concentrated form. It contains 
carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, and, with the carbohy- 
drates, furnishes heat and other energy ^ (see page 
18) in its oxidation in the body. 

How Much Fat? 

Ordinarily, about one fourth to one third of the food 
supply should be fat, or from 600 to 800 calories. Un- 
der conditions where the body fires need to burn more 
brightly, aS' in cold climates or in excessive exercise, the 
body needs more fuel, and so can utilize and take care of 
more of this concentrated food.- 

An Excess 

However, the menu of the average family contains 
much more of this food element than the one third given 
as the normal proportion. Instead of 600 or 800 cal- 
ories, the amount usually runs up to more than 1,000 
calories. Four hundred to 600 food units of butter alone 
may be daily consumed by the one who, not realizing the 
need for a more nearly balanced ration, carelessly fol- 
lows his inclination in this respect. When to this is 



' The three common classes of fat are, stearin, palmitin, and olein. Stearin 
(CsTHiioOa) makes up a large part of beef and mutton tallow, and having a 
higher melting point than the other fats, is in a solid form at ordinary tempera- 
tures. Palmitin (CsiHcisO.i) is found in human fat, in all animal fats, and to an 
extent in vegetable fats. Olein (C57H104O6), having a low melting point and so in 
the form of oils, is found to a greater extent in vegetable fats, as in olive and cot- 
tonseed oils. 

2 Recent scientific investigation goes to show that of the vitamines essential for 
life some are soluble in fat, and of the fats included in the diet some should be in 
such form as to insure the provision of this valuable vitamine. (See Chapter IX.) 

4 49 



50 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

added the fatty seasonings in the other foods served, the 
normal fat content of such foods as olives and " nuts, 
legumes and grains, cream and milk, the excess of fat 
not only tends to bring the total food ration far above 
the normal, but often overwhelms the digestive tract and 
tissues with an amount of fat far exceeding the ability 
of the body properly to utilize and eliminate. 

Average per Capita 

Recent calculations show that the average consump- 
tion of fat per capita a day in the United States is 150 
grams, which equals 1,350 calories daily. (See page 33.) 
While Hoover reports that during his two years' experi- 
ence in Belgium the ration allowed contained 40 grams 
or 360 calories of fat, 60 grams or 240 calories of pro- 
tein, and 300 grams or 1,200 calories of carbohydrate, 
making a total of 1,800 food units daily. This was 
found entirely sufficient for the entire population, except 
for adolescent children, for whom an extra allowance of 
fat was made. Surely the difference between the 360 
fat units actually required and the 1,350 used by the 
American people represents a great excess in the use of 
this kind of food. 

Fat Free and Combined 

Fat is supplied to us in two forms : free fat and com- 
bined. Combined fat is found in nuts, olives, grains, 
and legumes, especially the soy bean. It is also found 
in other vegetables and in some fruits, as the alligator 
pear. Fat is not found in nature as a free fat, but by 
mechanical processes can be isolated. So we have but- 
ter, oils, free animal fats, as suet, tallow, lard, etc. The 
fat of cream is in an emulsified form and is not a free 
fat until it is made into butter. 

The fat-soluble vitamine (see Chapter IX) is found in 
milk, eggs, and butter, and also in leafy vegetables. In 



A BALANCED RATION — FAT 51 

this respect it becomes largely a question of quality 
rather than of quantity, and while vegetables cannot be 
said to supply fat to any great extent, yet they contain 
a sufficient amount to hold in solution this valuable 
vitamine. 

Taking a hint from nature, it would seem that the 
plan was not for our food to contain fat in a free state, 
but in a form which could more readily mix with the 
digestive juices. 

In the stomach an excess of free fat, by lubricating 
the food and thus preventing its mechanical action, hin- 
ders the flow of gastric juice and also interferes with 
the thorough mixture of the digestive fluid with the 
stomach contents. 

Digestion Hindered 

All free fat must be thoroughly emulsified before it 
can be digested or before the digestion of other food 
elements can be accomplished. This process of emulsi- 
fication takes place in the intestine, and until it is ac- 
complished all digestion is to a greater or less degree 
hindered. This is particularly true of protein. The 
oily coating about the protein particles hinders the action 
of intestinal fluids on the protein, thus furnishing an- 
other factor in the causation of intestinal putrefaction 
and auto-intoxication. This stagnation also allows the 
fat itself to become rancid, producing products irritating 
to the mucous lining. 

Fat Metabolism 

After fat is digested and absorbed, it should be com- 
pletely oxidized into carbon dioxide (COo) and water 
(HoO), with resulting heat production, and, as carbon 
dioxide and water, eliminated through the lungs, skin, 
and kidneys. If more fat is ingested than can be oxi- 
dized into CO, and HgO, one of two things happens: 



52 The home dietitian 

the excess is laid up as fat in the tissues with perhaps 
resulting obesity; or an attempt is made to throw off 
the excess in an imperfectly oxidized form, and again 
we have a " stove that smokes." (See page 20.) 

Fatty Acids 

Fatty acids are combinations of carbon, hydrogen, and 
oxygen into which the complex fat molecule is broken up 
on its way to complete disintegration. To an extent 
they are formed normally in the process of fat diges- 
tion. Abnormally they are formed when fats become 
rancid either on the pantry shelf or in the digestive 
tract as the result of delayed digestion. The subjection 
of fats to extreme heat, as in frying, also results in the 
formation of fatty acids. 

Eczema, Pimples, Catarrh 

If in connection with metabolism the oxidation of fats 
is incomplete, the process often stops at the fatty acid 
stage, and in this form the body seeks to eliminate 
them.^ The excretion of these products of an imperfect 
metabolism takes place through the skin and mucous 
membranes, and, because of their irritating action, they 
increase the tendency of a susceptible skin to eczema, 
acne, pimples, boils, etc., and of the mucous membranes 
to catarrh. 

This result is often made the more probable because 
of the accompanying intoxication resulting from the in- 
testinal stasis (stoppage) brought on, or increased by 
the presence of a large amount of free fat in the in- 
testinal canal. 

Frying 

These conditions of irritation are increased if, before 
fats are eaten, they are broken up by heat into these 



^This excess of fatty acids in the blood may be a factor in the production of a 
lessened alkalinity of the body fluids, often spoken of as acidosis. (See page 85.) 



A BALANCED RATION — FAT 53 

same fatty acids, as happens in most frying and cooking 
at extreme heat. This decomposes the fat so that it at 
once manifests its irritating properties as it reaches the 
delicate lining of the stomach ; and at the same time the 
coating of fat which the food receives in frying greatly 
hinders the mixing of the gastric juice with the food 
particles. 

Quality of Fat 

The amount of fat needed to supply caloric needs can 
be supplied the body in the form of olives and nuts, and 
in other combined forms, without the use of fat in a 
free state. As has been suggested, quality of fat must 
be considered as well as quantity, because of the fact 
that fat is an important vitamine carrier. An excess of 
refined oils cannot take the place of fat which still re- 
tains its fat-soluble vitamine. If a sufficient amount of 
fat-soluble vitamine is ingested, the need for additional 
fat varies largely with caloric needs. (See page 77.) 

Butter 

Butter differs from refined oils in that it still retains 
the fat-soluble vitamine of milk. However, the milk 
supplies this vitamine freely, and, as has already been 
said, this vitamine is found in leafy vegetables. There- 
fore, with a diet including milk and leafy vegetables, 
the question of butter in the daily ration becomes one 
of caloric food value and personal taste. The advantage 
in fat as a food, ver se, is in the fact that it furnishes 
necessary food units without undue bulk with its tax on 
the mechanical phase of digestion. However, as we have 
said, combined fats may accomplish this, in most cases 
quite as well as free fats. It is well that all food does 
not come to us in a bulky form; for by combining bulk 
with concentration in various ways, food combinations 
suitable for all types of individuals may be supplied. 



54 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

The fat taken in olives can be utilized by the body to 
much better advantage than if taken as olive oil, and in 
the olive it is combined with mineral salts and protein. 
For those who need for a time an extra amount of con- 
centrated food, cream may be taken with advantage, but 
this can easily be overdone. 

Vegetable Oils 

It is a fact worthy of mention that the vegetable oils, 
especially olive oil, are not so quickly broken up into 
fatty acids as are animal fats, more particularly butter. 
Butter, being rather unstable, quickly becomes rancid 
and soon decomposes when subjected to heat. For this 
reason it is not ideal for the seasoning of cooked foods, 
and should be used carefully. This, with the fact that 
disease of animals is rapidly on the increase, makes the 
question of the free use of butter, one not only of econ- 
omy, but also of health. 

Whenever fat is used as seasoning, it is much better 
to add it after the food has been removed from the fire, 
so that it may not be subjected to intense heat. The 
addition of fat to vegetables greatly lessens their di- 
gestibility, and, if cooked properly, it is surprising how 
palatable such foods are without the addition of butter 
or oil. 

To Fry Without Grease 

Instead of the excessive use of fats in frying, equally 
satisfactory results may be obtained by braising or broil- 
ing, using only enough fat to slightly oil the pan. Even 
an egg may be " fried " without grease by dropping it 
onto a perfectly smooth hot iron or aluminum skillet. 

So then, the ideal in our dietetic program which is to 
make for health is, first to balance properly our daily 
fat ration; second, to eat the minimum amount of free 
fat; and, third, to eliminate, as far as possible, the use 



A BALANCED RATION — FAT 55 

of fried or greasy foods. With a little interest and care 
we shall find it possible, and quite as easy, to prepare our 
foods in a way that will yield results in added health, 
and, at the same time, satisfy the most epicurean taste. 

Apropos of our discussion in this chapter, we quote a 
portion of an editorial in the Journal of the American 
Medical Association, March 5, 1921. The Jownal would 
not wish to be quoted as advising a food intake too low 
in fat, as is indicated in the last paragraph of the quo- 
tation. Nor do we; our only plea is that more of the 
fat be taken in its natural combined form. The quota- 
tion, however, is of interest and will bear study. It 
suggests, at least, the possibility that fat in the amounts 
we have been accustomed to is unnecessary. 

" Some of the physical ills which visited the underfed 
peoples of the war were charged to the shortage of fats 
in the ration. War edema serves as an illustration. 
Subsequent investigation has failed to justify most of 
these offhand conclusions. 

Psychologic as well as Physiologic 

" That fat is a potent food, is obvious from a consid- 
eration of its fuel value alone. A pound of fat yields 
two and one-fourth times as much energy as does a 
pound of any other nutrient utilized by man. This was 
the physiological justification for the slogan: 'Fats Are 
Fuel for Fighters.' A study of the dietary habits of 
different races at once suggests, however, that the ap- 
parent dependence of persons on fats may have psycho- 
logic or culinary motives as well as purely physiologic 
reasons. Thus, we are reminded that the Japanese, for 
example, habitually eat little fat. But it is the habit of 
both Europeans and Americans to use considerable fat, 
both on the table and in cooking. The taste of food is 
not so pleasing without it. Their recipes almost all call 



56 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

for fat in one form or another, so that when little or 
none is available, a change must be made in most of the 
methods of cooking. Virtually all food must be boiled, 
and is lacking in the flavor and texture to which we are 
accustomed. The food, no matter how nutritious it may 
be, will not taste good. In other words, food without 
fat is likely to be without flavor and monotonous; and 
if a food is distinctly unpleasant and diff'erent from 
what a person is accustomed to, digestive upsets may 
result. 

An Important Query 
" Accordingly, when those concerned with the nutri- 
tive welfare of the nation raised the query, ' How much 
fat do we need? ' the reply was that ' it is impossible to 
say with definiteness.' The fact that there has been no 
available satisfactory information on this question is at- 
tributable to the experimental difficulties heretofore in- 
herent in its solution. It is only in comparatively recent 
times that some of the essentials of an adequate diet 
have been discovered. Without knowledge of the impor- 
tance of vitamines, for example, all earlier attempts to 
study the role of proteins, fats, carbohydrates, or in- 
organic components of the diet by feeding them in varied 
proportions as isolated substances, inevitably failed. A 
diet rich in fat might bring nutritive failure as readily 
as one poor in this foodstuff", the untoward outcome in 
either case being due to a neglected and unrecognized 
further factor in the food mixture. Again, the presence 
of fat in the diet might bring beneficial results because 
it was the chance carrier of vitamine A, associated with 
some fats more than others. [See Chapter IX.] Mai- 
gnon supposed that fats assume an important role in the 
utilization of protein, a role that carbohydrates are pow- 
erless to fill. His experiments were conducted by feed- 
ing mixtures of more or less isolated food materials 



A BALANCED RATION — FAT 57 

without due consideration to the now well-recognized 
nee J of accessory food factors or vitamines. 

" Recent controversies regarding the necessity for fats 
in the diet fail to emphasize adequately the distinction 
in the significance of fats as sources of energy and as 
carriers of vitamine and of lipoids, regarding the role of 
which we are still largely uninformed. Directing atten- 
tion to the fats themselves rather than to the other food 
ingredients which commonly accompany them, Osborne 
and Mendel have succeeded in securing satisfactory 
growth from an early age to full adult size in experi- 
mental animals on rations extremely poor in true fats. 
The diets consisted of mixtures of proteins, starch, and 
inorganic salts, vitamines A and B being supplied by 
small portions of alfalfa and yeast. Such mixtures are 
not absolutely devoid of extractable fat, but the maxi- 
mum of the latter amounted at most to a small fraction 
of 1 per cent of the ration. Hence Osborne and Mendel 
cannot avoid the conclusion that if true fats are essential 
for nutrition during growth, the minimum necessary 
must be exceedingly small. . . . Hindhede, whose re- 
sults with young men correspond to observations on 
laboratory animals, has contended that fat is not re- 
quired in the diet if a sufficient amount of fresh fruits 
and vegetables is eaten daily to supply vitamines. The 
striking facts here offered must not be accepted as an 
immediate dictum that dietary fats ought to be dispensed 
with, . . . nor do they demonstrate that well-being is 
not best promoted by the inclusion of a liberal quota of 
fats in our daily intake. They are physiologic facts 
with which the study of nutrition may henceforth deal." 

" Consider diligently what is before thee: and 
put a knife to thy throat, if thou be a man 
given to appetite." — Bible. 



CHAPTER VIII 

CARBOHYDRATES; THEIR PLACE IN THE 
DAILY RATION 

The total food ration being kept near normal limits 
and fat and protein taken in proper amounts, the ques- 
tion of the proportion of carbohydrate obviously takes 
care of itself; but there are a few things in regard to 
this important fuel food that should be kept in mind. 

Cellulose 

The great bulk of food is carbohydrate, one of the 
seven great food classes. To this class belong cellulose, 
starch, and sugar. Cellulose is not digested and serves 
merely as bulk, but when acted upon by strong acids, it 
may be changed from cellulose to starch; from starch, 
through the stages of dextrin and maltose, to glucose, the 
simple sugar which practically all digestible carbohy- 
drate becomes before it is absorbed from the intestinal 
tract. (See page 60.) All plant fiber is cellulose, the 
woody framework of trees, and even cotton. A story 
is told of a man who took a dirty shirt which had been 
worn by a tramp, and, after washing it, put it through 
various processes which changed it from the cellulose 
which it really was, into glucose, from which he made 
a delicious confection. However, the digestive tract 
cannot digest cellulose, so it passes through unchanged, 
simply serving as a broom to keep the bowel clean and 
as bulk upon which this muscular tube can exercise itself. 

Starch 

Starch is the form in which carbohydrate is first man- 
ufactured in the plant. Unripe fruit contains starch, 
58 



CARBOHYDRATES 59 

but as the fruit ripens, this starch is changed to sugar. 
This fruit sugar is made up principally of glucose or 
dextrose and a closely related sugar of practically the 
same chemical composition called levulose. In vegeta- 
bles, starch is stored up in the plant, only a small por- 
tion of it becoming sugar. The carbohydrate of grains 
is mostly in the form of starch. 

Sugar is found principally in fruits, honey, the sugar 
cane, the maple, and some vegetables, as the sugar beet. 
The important difference between starch and sugar is 
that starch must be changed into sugar during the process 
of digestion. The formation of dextrin is the first step 
in the process of changing starch into sugar. (See 
page 14.) Maltose is the next step. Maltose is formed 
in the malting of grains, during thorough mastication, 
and in the intestine, where the process of starch diges- 
tion is completed by action of the amylopsin of the pan- 
creatic juice. Maltose is then changed into glucose in 
the intestine.^ So in this process we have starch, dex- 
trin, maltose, glucose. 

The process of digestion completed, carbohydrate is 
absorbed in the form of glucose. It is then changed in 
the liver to a form called glycogen, and is dealt out to 
the body as it is needed. 

Sugar 

The forms of sugar as we find them in various foods 
may be classified as (1) dextrin (the first step in starch 
digestion, as in dextrinized foods) ; (2) maltose (the 
second step in starch digestion, found in meltose, malt 
sugar, dextri-maltose, etc.) ; (3) glucose (the final step 



1 The chemical formula for starch is (C6Hio05)n ; for dextrin, (CsHioOs):!; 
for maltose, CieH220ii: for cane sugar, C12H22O11 ; for dextrose, or glucose, 
C6Hi20n. The change from starch into sugar may be represented by the following 
chemical equation: 2(C(iHio05) -|- HoO =: CioHooOn, or maltose. The change from 
maltose into the simple sugar glucose, is shown by the following: C12H22O11 (mal- 
tose) -J-H2O (water) = C0H12OC (glucose) + C6H12O6 (glucose), or two molecules of 
glucose. 



60 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

in starch digestion, often called dextrose and found in 
fruit sugar) ; (4) levulose (see page 59) ; (5) galactose 
(or the sugar of milk and akin to glucose) ; (6) sucrose 
(cane sugar, the most complex sugar and found in the 
sugar cane, sugar maple, and sugar beet). In the proc- 
ess of digestion, cane sugar is changed, with other 
sugars, into glucose; levulose and galactose, being chem- 
ically the same as glucose, remain unchanged. Honey 
is a combination of cane sugar and fruit sugar. 

In the tissues the oxidation of sugar produces heat and 
energy, and it is eliminated as carbonic acid gas (COJ 
and water (H.O). Normally a certain amount of carbo- 
hydrate is changed over into fat and deposited in the 
tissues as reserve fuel. In this respect carbohydrate and 
fat differ from protein, in that protein cannot be stored 
as reserve for future use. 

In cases of suboxidation due to lack of exercise, or 
where the food intake is in excess of body demand, this 
storing of the carbohydrate in the form of fat may be- 
come excessive and obesity may result. 

Diabetes 

Diabetes is an abnormal condition in which the oxida- 
tion of sugar is interfered with, and sugar, instead of 
being used by the tissues, is dealt with by the blood as 
a foreign substance, and being eliminated by the kid- 
neys as glucose, is found as such in the urine. This 
metabolic disorder is not well understood, but is prob- 
ably due to some abnormality in the internal secretions 
which govern the oxidation processes. (See Chapter 
XX VI.) 

The amount of carbohydrate food required by the in- 
dividual depends upon body caloric needs. After the 
necessary 200 to 300 calories of protein have been as- 
sured, the amount of energy food required must be ap- 



CARBOHYDRATES 61 

portioned between carbohydrate and fat. Because of 
the concentration of fat and the fact that its molecule 
is more complex than that of carbohydrate, and there- 
fore not so easily digested and metabolized, it would be 
unwise to attempt to derive all energy material simply 
from fat. 

Bulk Versus Concentration 

Carbohydrates in their natural form furnish bulk 
minus the concentration of fat. Therefore, if they form 
too small a proportion of the diet, the system may suffer 
from a handicap of dealing with too large an amount of 
concentrated food with its greater difficulty of both di- 
gestion and metabolism. The digestive tract is so con- 
structed that it works better with food which furnishes 
considerable proportion of bulk. If fat were depended 
upon to supply this bulk, much more food would be 
taken than would be required, and because of the con- 
centrated nature of fat, digestion would be well-nigh 
impossible. Because of the ease of the oxidation of the 
carbohydrate molecule, carbohydrates have been likened 
to the kindling which makes it possible for the body 
fires thoroughly to burn fat, the more concentrated fuel. 

Protein Sparer 

Carbohydrates have also been found to act as protein 
sparers, i. e., under conditions where protein must be in- 
gested in smaller quantities than normal, it is possible 
for the carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen of carbohydrates 
to unite with the outgoing nitrogen, which, having been 
used once, is on its way to be eliminated; catching it, as 
it were, they bring it back to do second duty. In this way 
the possibilities for the use of nitrogen under such cir- 
cumstances, are doubled. Hence, while, under normal 
conditions, we need 400 to 600 calories of the more 



feS THE HOME DIETITIAN 

concentrated food, the greater part of our food intake 
must ever be carbohydrate, say 1,000 to 1,500 calories. 
The proper variation in these two types of energy food 
with different individuals is one of the points where a 
careful judgment in dietary planning is often needed. 
Some do better with more concentrated food and less 
bulk, while others may need to have a greater amount 
of their food value in a bulky form. 

In Natural Combination 

In natural unrefined foods, starch is always in com- 
bination with vitamines, mineral salts, and, to some 
extent, complete proteins. These important associated 
elements are found in the hull of the grain in rice pol- 
ishings, the skin of the potato, etc. (See Chapter IX.) 
As with starch so with sugar, we find all in natural com- 
bination with vitamines and mineral salts, including a 
goodly supply of lime, or calcium. We have seen that 
fat and protein are not supplied in nature in a free state. 
Natural foods are ever combined in the way most ad- 
vantageous for body use. 

Nature tends to avoid concentration, and ever asso- 
ciates with foodstuffs small quantities of very active sub- 
stances which help to bring into play the mechanism that 
makes it possible for the body to use these foods to the 
best advantage. We find, however, in civilized countries, 
as a result of refining processes, these accessory elements 
largely removed ; so, instead of honey, with its associated 
vitamines and lime salts, instead of fruit sugar as found 
in fruit, man depends almost entirely upon the refined 
form of cane sugar for the satisfaction of his desire for 
sweets. We find him taking, as he does his fats, much 
of his starch in refined, concentrated form, such as white 
bread, polished rice, and the potato from which the outer 
covering has been removed. (See page 101.) This gives 



CARBOHYDRATES 63 

him a preponderance of carbohydrate without its asso- 
ciated means for stimulating normal digestive and met- 
abolic processes. This is therefore the reason for the 
recognized difficulty attending the digestion of so much 
starchy food. It is not only concentrated, but devital- 
ized, and cannot be well handled by the digestive tract. 
Starch requires more digestion than sugar, as it is in 
a more bulky form, thus increasing the strain on the 
mechanical phase of digestion, and, chemically it must 
be changed into sugar before absorption. If this tax is 
placed upon the digestive powers without the normal at- 
tending vitalizing elements, small wonder that fermenta- 
tion results, with the formation of gases and irritating 
acids. 

Carbohydrate Fermentation 

Fermentation of carbohydrate in the digestive tract, 
as well as the results of incomplete metabolism, draws 
upon the alkaline resources of the body, often causing a 
tendency to acidosis, so called. This is especially true 
when large amounts of devitalized, starchy food is taken, 
or when concentrated cane sugar is ingested in more 
than very moderate quantities. 

Says Sir James Barr, M. D., of England : " An ex- 
cessive amount of acid, whether taken by the mouth or 
generated by the fermentation of carbohydrates in the 
stomach, would extract the lime salts from the bones, 
cartilages, fibrous tissues, and nerves. The acid fermen- 
tation of an excess of carbohydrate will saturate the free 
calcium ions, and even dissolve the calcium already de- 
posited in the tissues." (See Chapter X.) 

Moderation Important 

This discussion may help to make clear the reason for 
the rather bad reputation that so-called starchy food has 



64 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

acquired in the minds of the people. There are many 
who have learned that starches do not agree with them. 
Just why, they do not know, and various diet enthusiasts 
think to solve all dietetic problems by an endeavor to 
greatly restrict the use of starchy foods or even to elim- 
inate them entirely. So we hear of " starch poisoning," 
of the harm of taking " two starches at a meal," that 
" potatoes should never be eaten," and even that our old 
stand-by, bread, is " the staff of death." Most of these 
people have a very vague conception of food values. 
They do not know that of necessity starch must have an 
important place in the food ration of man, and that the 
trouble is not with starch as a food, but with the de- 
vitalized, demineralized form in which it is taken and in 
the unbalancing of the daily ration by letting exces- 
sive carbohydrate crowd out necessary protein. They 
do not realize that actual bulk of food must be con- 
sidered as related to the mechanics of digestion; that 
foods containing starch — such as bread, potatoes, rice, 
cereals, legumes — furnish, as compared with such foods 
as fruits and vegetables, a concentrated mass which, if 
taken in excess, handicaps digestion in both its mechani- 
cal and its chemical phase — mechanical, because of the 
difficulty with which the muscular walls work over this 
concentrated mass; and chemical, because of the length 
of time it may take the digestive juices to penetrate the 
center of it. Moderation should be exercised in the 
eating of any class of foods, whether starch, sugar, fat, 
or protein, as overeating of any food is bad, including, 
of course, foods containing starch. 

So let these foods, which are so important and yet 
against which so much has been said, be eaten only in 
proper proportion; let them be combined freely with 
foods that supply bulk in a lighter, less concentrated 
form, as green vegetables both raw and cooked, salads. 



CARBOHYDRATES 65 

fruits; and by all means let them be taken in natural 
combination as intended for us by nature. We shall 
then choose Graham and whole-wheat bread, whole-grain 
cereals, brown rice; and in preparing vegetables we 
shall remember the value of the salts and vitamines just 
under the skin and in the leaves. Let it be remembered 
that no two digestive tracts are able to do exactly the 
same work, and that with a knowledge of the under- 
lying principles, all rules must be modified to suit the 
individual. 

Undoubtedly many people eat too much bread, cereal, 
and potato; too large a proportion of these foods are in 
their diet, with not enough of the foods supplying com- 
plete protein, mineral salts, and vitamines. They are 
either overeating or their carbohydrate food is crowding 
out necessary protein. Let these matters be adjusted, 
and starch be given its proper place as an important 
and necessary article of food. 

Cane Sugar 

Another devitalized, demineralized, concentrated food 
taken in great excess by civilized peoples is cane sugar. 
In spite of the abundance of the natural predigested 
sugar of fruit, it is in the form of cane sugar extracted 
from its various sources, and served often in its con- 
centrated form, that a large part of sugar is ingested. 
In its concentrated form cane sugar is very irritating 
to the mucous membrane, very marked inflammatory 
effects being produced when solutions stronger than 6 
per cent to 10 per cent are taken. Yet it is in this form 
that millions of pounds a year are consumed by the 
American people, and to this excess may be ascribed 
another cause for various digestive troubles, to say noth- 
ing of an excessive fuel supply in its effect on metabo- 
lism. This also adds to conditions of fermentation in the 



66 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

digestive tract, withi a formation of acids which, as we 
have seen, tends to produce conditions of acidosis. In 
nature, sugar is always combined with Hme. If ex- 
tracted from the lime and taken in a refined form, it 
draws upon the lime reserve of the body, and, as we 
have quoted, may even dissolve the calcium already de- 
posited in the tissues. As calcium salts are among the 
important alkalizers of the body fluids as well as im- 
portant structural elements in the formation of such 
tissues as the teeth and bones, we can see a reason for 
the well-known deleterious effect excessive candy eating 
has on the teeth of children, and for the frequency of 
rickets in babies on a diet supplying a preponderance 
of sugar, as in certain proprietary infant foods. 

The Sweet Tooth 

Children are educated from babyhood to like sugar, 
and " the sweet tooth " so universal among them is more 
often a result of wrong training than a natural instinct. 
These children are often fat and apparently well nour- 
ished, but their vital resistance in many cases is low, 
and they may be among the first to succumb to in- 
fection and disease. The susceptibility of the child to 
colds, catarrh, adenoids, enlarged tonsils, croup, bron- 
chitis, is often greatly increased by this error in diet, 
with an excess of fats and greasy foods. Wise is the 
mother, who, knowing this, feeds her child in such a 
way that the foundation for chronic catarrh, digestive 
troubles, and metabolic disturbances is not laid. 

Cane Sugar Formerly Not Used 

We quote from Dr. Kerley, of New York: 
" Cane sugar was not cultivated until three hundred 
years ago, and as late as the tenth century it was used 
largely as a condiment as honey is used at the present 



CARBOHYDRATES 67 

time. Countless millions existed and lived their span 
without it. Now we require forty pounds - a year per 
capita. It requires no great strain on the imagination 
to believe that the introduction of so large an amount 
of highly energized food in excess of demands might 
produce ailments of a very definite character. It is note- 
worthy that, as the refined product came into common 
use, it was first employed only on medicine ' to render 
unpleasant and nauseating drugs grateful to the sick.' 
Gradually sugar was found of value in preserving fruits, 
and then added to tea, wine, and various beverages, un- 
til its acceptability as a food for the sick and its value 
as a source of energy in sustaining artificially fed in- 
fants came to be appreciated. Then only (about 1600) 
was the substance commonly recognized as a food. 
What the result has been cannot be better summarized 
than in the words of Moseley, written in 1800: 

" ' Two centuries have elapsed since it can properly 
be said that sugar has become an ingredient in the popu- 
lar diet of Europe. Such is the influence of sugar that 
once touching the nerves of taste, no person was ever 
known to have the power of relinquishing desire for it.' " 

We quote also from Fitch, in " Dietotherapy," Volume 
II, page 766: 

" It will be observed that Mendel appears skeptical as 
to white sugar being of any great nutritive value, but 
does not comment on the cream-colored product. 

" Campbell . . . propounded as iconoclastic opin- 
ions with regard to the food value of sugar as he pro- 
pounded concerning milk. He stated that we could get 
on very well without sugar at all. Primitive man had 
none but the limited quantity furnished by wild honey. 
War prices are exorbitantly high, and it consequently 
behooves every one to be economical. He maintained 



- This i3 now ninety pounds a year. 



68 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

that all money spent on candy is worse than wasted, and 
recommended that none should be so spent, that the 
money saved in this way should be loaned to the state, 
and that the multitude of persons engaged in the sweet 
industry should be transferred to occupations more prof- 
itable to the country. 

" More than one well-known physiological authority 
has stated that sugar is not a natural food, inasmuch 
as the human economy is constructed to convert carbo- 
hydrate, e. g., starch, which they claim to be a natural 
foodstuff, into sugar. It is certain that if sugar were 
tasteless or not sweet, it would not be so popular as it 
is, and thus it must rank as a condiment as well as a 
food. It is interesting to recall that sugar was scarcely 
a commercial commodity a little over a century ago, and 
that before that our ancestors got on very well without 
it, while, as a matter of fact, a big section of the com- 
munity consumes nowadays very little or none of it. 
The history of starch in the dietary, on the other hand, 
goes back to the very beginning of things, and there was 
a supply of starches long before sugar was thought of in 
its present form. 

" Custom and cheapness have brought sugar into wide 
use, but in time of war its employment in many ex- 
traneous and totally unnecessary ways should be pro- 
hibited. After all, diet is largely ruled by custom, and 
war has gone to show that many customary articles of 
food which were considered essential by the public can- 
not only be dispensed with, but be dispensed with to 
the benefit of the general health." 



" Many things sweet to taste, prove in diges- 
tion sour." — Shakespeare. 



CHAPTER IX 
VITAMINES 

" It has thus far been shown that nutrition means 
fuel for the machinery, new parts with which to repair 
the machine, and minute quantities of * vitamines ' which 
produce a harmonious interaction between the materials 
in the food and their host." — Lusk. 

Ferments of Life 

" Vitamines are ferments of life, substances without 
which a food does not keep one healthy, even though on 
a balanced ration." — Evans. 

Funk says : " Vitamines are mother substances of di- 
gestive ferments and of body hormones as thyroid secre- 
tion and other internal secretions. Food may be ever so 
nourishing, but if without vitamines, the body cannot 
construct its own ferments and carry on its own vital 
activities." 

The word " vitamine " is no longer new, and is so 
commonly used that nearly every one at all interested in 
foods has an idea of its meaning. We have already used 
it with little explanation and believe that few are in the 
dark as to its significance. However, its interest and 
importance is such that a little time spent in a more 
detailed study of these vital elements would seem quite 
worth while, if not necessary. 

Beriberi 

Years were spent in investigation before it was found 
that beriberi, a disease of the Orient, could be cured and 
prevented by the addition to the diet of the nutritive 
elements ordinarily thrown away in the polishings of 
rice. Just what these nutritive elements were was not 

69 



70 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

understood, but the fact remained that a diet of poHshed 
rice resulted in symptoms of beriberi, while a diet of the 
unpolished grain was sufficient to prevent any manifesta- 
tion of the disease. In Java, where the people lived 
largely on whole rice, beriberi was unknown. 

Scurvy 

For years it has been a recognized fact that sailors 
living on canned and preserved foods sooner or later 
contract scurvy, but that this disease is speedily cured 
by the addition to their diet of fresh vegetables or the 
juices of fruits, especially the orange and the lemon. In 
1535, when all but three of Cartier's 110 sailors had 
scurvy, he cured them all by giving them a decoction of 
fresh pine needles. 

Babies fed on Pasteurized milk often contract infan- 
tile scurvy, but may be cured in a remarkably short 
time by the addition of orange juice to their diet. Po- 
tato water and other vegetable broths may be given 
these babies with the same beneficial effect, the symp- 
toms of scurvy rapidly disappearing. When fed on oats 
or barley only, guinea pigs die from scurvy, but if the 
grain is moistened and allowed to sprout, which prac- 
tically converts the grain into fresh vegetables, the dis- 
ease is prevented. 

Pellagra 

Pellagra, a disease of the Southern States, manifests 
itself largely among a class of people living on a monot- 
onous diet of corn bread, bacon, biscuit, and sirup. 
Goldberger's experiments in the State penitentiary in 
Mississippi, showed that many cases of pellagra resulted 
when the inmates were kept upon a diet of white flour, 
grits, cornmeal, fried mush, brown gravy, sweet po- 
tatoes, coffee with sugar, and sirup. The introduction 
of oatmeal and fresh vegetables practically eliminated 
the pellagra. 



VITAMINES 71 

A Restricted Diet 

" The regular diet of thousands of the poor people of 
the Southern States during the winter contains little be- 
sides corn bread, molasses, and a small amount of salt 
pork. After three or four months of such a diet, large 
numbers of them develop pellagra. That the cornmeal 
which is eaten has in itself nothing to do with the pro- 
duction of pellagra is evident from the fact that the dis- 
ease occurs with those who have not eaten corn products 
in the period preceding the attack. Corn rightly used 
is a wholesome foodstuff, and there is no warrant for 
the belief sometimes expressed that it is the cause of 
pellagra. It is the restricted character of the diet, 
which is undoubtedly rendered unsatisfactory by several 
factors operating simultaneously, not corn or any other 
single food, which causes the disease. When the char- 
acter of the diet is improved by doing away with an ex- 
cess of alkali (baking soda) in cookery and by the in- 
troduction of a wider range of foods, . . . many of 
the milder cases of the disease recover." — " Ten Les- 
sons of Food Conservation," U. S. Food Administration, 
pp. 50, 51. 

Deficiency Diseases 

No matter how plentiful in " calories " the diet is, it 
became apparent that there might be a deficiency else- 
where with disastrous results to the body, hence the 
term " deficiency disease." Unmistakably beriberi and 
scurvy come under this head, and the above observations 
strongly suggest that pellagra is also a deficiency dis- 
ease. There are some investigators who believe that a 
predisposition, at least, to rickets in children, to eczema, 
and even to such infections as tuberculosis and pyorrhea, 
may result from a diet deficient in certain vital ele- 
ments. 



72 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

Pyorrhea 

Dr. A. S. Gray says that pyorrhea is the " result of 
lowered vitality from lack of those organic compounds 
other than the proteins which Casimir Funk and other 
investigators prove to be present in fresh vegetables and 
in lime and other fruit juices, small quantities of which 
are absolutely essential to growth and health." Gray 
also says : " A diet largely composed of sterilized milk, 
corn flours, starch, and sugar, or of any foods subjected 
for a long period to a temperature above 250°, may be 
considered vitamineless and will predispose to tubercu- 
losis, beriberi, pellagra, rickets, scurvy, osteomalacia, 
etc." 

A Vital Substance 

Casimir Funk, working along this line, perfected 
some experiments that resulted in added light being 
thrown upon this most interesting subject. He was 
able to produce experimental beriberi in pigeons by feed- 
ing them for three weeks on polished rice. Then if they 
were fed the polishings from this same rice they were 
cured of their symptoms in a remarkably short time, 
showing that in the rice polishings were certain ele- 
ments absolutely essential to life. What could this vital 
substance be? 

A Rapid Cure 

By a series of experiments he finally isolated from the 
rice polishings a minute crystalline substance, of which 
two pounds of rice polishings yielded about one half a 
grain. Injecting under the skin or into the crop of a 
dying pigeon three tenths of a grain of this crystalline 
material was sufficient not only to make it well in a 
few hours, but also to keep it so for two weeks while 
on a diet of polished rice. 



VITAMINES 73 

Vitamine 

This precious crystalline substance, which contained 
nitrogen, Funk called vitamine from " vita," meaning 
life, and from " amine," a nitrogenous chemical com- 
pound closely related to the proteins. 

Besides this vitamine which so remarkably prevented 
beriberi and which Funk called the beriberi vitamine, he 
also isolated a vitamine seemingly having an especial ac- 
tion in the prevention of scurvy, or the scurvy vitamine. 

Three Important Vitamines 

Moreover, experiments by Dr. McCollum and others 
have shown that animals do not grow and develop prop- 
erly unless, to a ciet which furnishes simply calories of 
protein, fat, and carbohydrate, there is added other food 
such as butter fat, egg yolk, or green leaves. These 
furnish an indefinite something which induces proper 
use of the caloric intake with normal growth and devel- 
opment. There seems to be a definite vitamine, in addi- 
tion to the beriberi and scurvy vitamines, which has an 
especial action in inducing proper growth. The first two 
seem to have to do with the maintenance of the body 
in health; the last with the building of new tissue. The 
first two are soluble in water and are designated respec- 
tively water-soluble B and water-soluble C, The growth- 
producing vitamine is soluble only in fat and is called 
fat-soluble A. While all need water-soluble B and C, 
children particularly require fat-soluble A. 

If Fat-Soluble A Lacking 

Young rats, deprived for a few weeks of the fat- 
soluble A, develop a severe inflammatory condition of 
the eye, which destroys the sight unless this vitamine 
is added to the diet, whereupon the eye condition returns 
to normal. Eye conditions analogous to this have been 



74 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

found in warring countries where children have been 
for some time on a diet devoid of this vitamine. Many 
consider that rickets is due to a deficiency of the fat- 
soluble vitamine, together with some disturbance in the 
calcium-phosphorus metabolism. 

All Body Organs Affected 

Since a sufficient lack of any particular vitamine will 
produce symptoms of some definite disease, as scurvy, it 
is reasonable to suppose that a lesser deficiency, even 
though slight, in one or more vitamines may bring on 
varying conditions of lowered vitality and poor nutri- 
tion not attributable to any disease, and the cause often 
be unrecognized. 

The following from Dr. W. H. Wilcox, in the British 
Medical Journal, July 31, 1920, is of interest: 

" The extremely interesting and important researches 
of Lieut. Col. R. McCarrison have shed quite a new 
light on the influence of vitamines in nutrition, and our 
conception of the action of these accessory food factors 
has become greatly enlarged in consequence. It appears 
that vitamines have a wide-reaching influence on all 
the organs of the body, and that the functions of the 
endocrine glands, of the gastro-intestinal tract, the 
heart and nervous system, etc., are powerfully aff'ected. 
Absence of vitamines in the dietary of an animal causes 
marked changes in practically all the bodily organs; 
thus colitis, enterocolitis may be early symptoms, and 
marked changes may occur in the suprarenal glands; 
for example, if the dietary is deficient in antiscorbutic 
or antiberiberi vitamines. 

" It seems certain that these views are applicable to 
clinical medicine in man. In cases of malnutrition, 
whether due to a defective diet or to some chronic dis- 
ease, such as sprue, chronic colitis, dysentery, etc., it is 



VITAMINES 75 

most important that the dietary should be . . . espe- 
cially selected from the point of view of high vitamine 
value. ... It must be remembered that vitamines have 
not only important action on the general nutrition of 
the body, but they also have a reaction on the func- 
tions of the important secretory glands ; and vv^hen these 
functions are impaired, ... a diet rich in vitamines 
will have a markedly beneficial effect in stimulating the 
repair of the damaged organs and their impaired func- 
tions." 

A Battery 

Much has yet to be learned in regard to these life- 
giving substances, and whether or not they are " amines " 
is still a debated question, but the experiments by Funk 
and other investigators have given evidence quite suffi- 
cient to help us materially in planning a diet that will 
completely supply the body needs. In addition to a suf- 
ficient diet as regards the caloric value of our food, it 
is quite as important that daily we obtain in some way 
an adequate amount of vitamine, the battery, as it were, 
which keeps in operation the vital processes of the body, 
and makes possible a utilization by the body of food 
materials. 

Vitamines as Related to Protein 

Just what may be the relation of vitamines to the pro- 
teins is as yet not fully determined. Funk called atten- 
tion to the fact that on a diet composed largely of car- 
bohydrates, more vitamines seemed to be needed by the 
body than when a large amount of protein is taken. 
This is undoubtedly due in part at least to the fact that 
much of the carbohydrate is taken separated from its 
natural setting (see Chapter VIII), without its vitamines 
and salts. Protein foods, however, are more often com- 
bined with vital food accessories. At any rate, though 



76 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

all need an ample supply of vitamine food, yet the vege- 
tarian and the one living on a low-protein ration seem 
to need even more an abundant supply of these ferments 
of life. It has been suggested that the protein with its 
nitrogen content can to an extent take the place of the 
vitamine when this is for any reason deficient, and that, 
vice versa, the vitamine can supplement a deficiency of 
protein. It seems that an individual on a diet contain- 
ing a large amount of vitamines can do well on a much 
lower protein diet than one in whose daily ration the 
vitamine content is low. 

It is a fact not without significance that many foods 
containing vitamines, e. g., the leafy vegetables, contain 
also a definite amount of protein of a most excellent 
quality as well as a good supply of mineral salts. Just 
where conditions apparently due to a lack of vitamines 
may be combined with, and overlap, symptoms referable 
to a deficiency in mineral salts and complete proteins, 
is a debatable question. The experimental investiga- 
tions conducted have quite conclusively shown, however, 
that the supplying of missing protein links ^ and refined 
mineral salts is not sufficient for normal body mainte- 
nance and development unless, with these, are furnished 
the vital elements as classified above. 

Foods That Are Alive 

What foods, then, contain vitamines? This is the 
practical question. All raw foods contain them, as raw 



* By " links " is meant the amino acids which are united to form proteins. 
Proteins are very complex compounds consisting of many simpler compounds 
(amino acids) linked together. There are some eighteen of these amino acids. 
Some proteins lack one or more of the amino acids, and so are not complete pro- 
teins. When proteins are digested, they are broken up into their separate amino 
acids. These are absorbed into the blood and are there built up into such proteins 
as the body needs. If any of the necessary amino acids are lacking, the body can- 
not build its proteins. The proteins of all seeds (grains, legumes, nuts) seem to be 
lacking in certain of the amino acids. But the proteins of the leaves of plants 
and the proteins of milk contain these missing amino acids, and when used in 
sufficient quantity, they serve to make up the deficiency of the seed proteins. For 
this reason the cereals (including bread) should be eaten in connection with either 
green vegetables or milk, or both. Meat will also make up the deficiency, but for 
reasons explained elsewhere we do not advise its use. 



VITAMINES 77 

fruit, raw vegetables, raw milk, raw meat ; also all fresh 
vegetables properly prepared and not overcooked. The 
leafy vegetables are very rich in all vitamines.- Young 
carrots have been found to be rich in all classes of vita- 
mines. All whole cereals, raw or cooked at not too high 
a temperature, as in a double boiler or, better still, in a 
fireless cooker, contain vitamines. Vitamines are pres- 
ent in the outer layer and in the germ of grain, and they 
are abundant just under the skin of vegetables and in 
fruits. They are also present in brewer's yeast. 

Water-soluble B and water-soluble C vitamines are 
rather more widely distributed than the fat-soluble A. 
This last is found in foods containing fat. As it has to 
do with development of the young, it is abundant in all 
animal foods intended by nature to nourish the young, 
as the fat of milk, the yolk of the egg. It is found in 
glandular tissues of the animal body, the cells of which 
are continually reproducing themselves, as in the liver. 
Therefore a reason for its abundance in cod-liver oil, 
long considered almost a specific in many nutritional 
diseases of childhood. However, it is possible to obtain 
it directly from plant foods. It is found in the germ of 
grain and in leafy vegetables, in young carrots, to- 
matoes, and even in orange juice. These all contain 
enough fat to hold in solution necessary amounts of this 



- The following is quoted from Dr. Graham Lusk as given in an address at the 
Auditorium, National Museum, Washington, D. C, Aug. 30, 1917: "Two Italian 
scientists describe how this class of people (Italian peasants) live mainly on corn- 
meal, olive oil, and green stuffs, and have done so for generations. There is no 
milk, cheese, or eggs in their dietary. Meat in the form of fat pork is taken three 
or four times a year. . . . Little wonder that such people have migrated to 
America, but it may strike some as astonishing that a race so nourished should 
have become the man power in the construction of our railways, our subways, and 
our great buildings. 

" Dr. McCollum will tell you that the secret of it all lies in the green leaves. 
The quality of the protein in corn is poor, but the protein in the leaves supple- 
ments that of corn, so that good result is obtained. Olive oil when taken alone is 
a poor fat in a nutritive sense, but when taken with green leaves, these furnish 
one of the peculiar accessory substances, commonly known as vitamines, which is 
present most abundantly in butter fat, and gives to butter fat and to the fat in 
the whole milk its dominant nutritive value. The green leaves also furnish another 
accessory substance which is soluble in water and which is necessary for normal 
life. Furthermore, the green leaves contain mineral matter in considerable quan- 
tity and in about the same proportions as they exist in milk." 



78 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

important substance, and, for this reason, are invaluable 
as aids in the feeding of children. Foods containing the 
fat-soluble A invariably contain the other vitamines as 
well. 

Foods That Are Dead 

Vitamines may be destroyed by overheating or dry- 
ing, or may be removed from the food in the process of 
preparation. Dried, preserved, and commercially canned 
foods are generally vitamineless, an exception to this 
being the canned tomato, the acid of which seems to 
stabilize its vitamine. In all processed grains, as white 
flour and polished rice, the vitamines have been removed. 
The vitamines remain in the outer, coarser portion and 
are often fed to stock, which thrive on " shorts," the 
pait of the grain discarded by the human animal. All 
refined foods are vitamineless, as, e. g., cane sugar, re- 
fined oils, etc. It is said that pellagra, which is on the 
increase in America, is more acute and fatal here than 
elsewhere because of the superior machinery used in the 
processing of food. " Food is too much refined, too much 
polished, too much cooked, too much dried." 

Just how much ordinary home cooking destroys the 
vitamines is a question, and no doubt varies greatly. 
(See page 107.) 

Some Vitamines More Stable 

In the paring of vegetables many vitamines are lost; 
in the boiling, most of those remaining pass into the 
water, which is usually thrown away. Vitamines are 
destroyed by baking powder and soda, a strong argu- 
ment against the use of these powders in the cooking of 
vegetables and the baking of bread. Vitamines are 
more stable in some foods than in others; e. g., rasp- 
berry juice can be boiled one hour without losing its 
vitality, while lemon or lime juice can be boiled and kept 



VITAMINES 79 

indefinitely without becoming devitalized. As has been 
said, tomatoes, even though canned, retain their vita- 
mines indefinitely. 

A Danger 

Individuals with weak digestive organs, unable to di- 
gest bulky food, are often in danger of living on a vita- 
mineless diet because their vegetables are pureed, their 
cereals are processed, often in the form of gruels with 
the coarser particles removed, or much of their food is 
dextrinized, superheated, their bread twice baked, and 
fruits perhaps eliminated entirely from their diet. But 
plans should be laid for these persons as well as for all 
others, that in their daily ration may be supplied these 
vital substances upon which the body is so dependent. 
For these persons it should be remembered that broths 
prepared from vegetables without removing the skins, 
are very rich in vitamines. 

A Safe Course 

Our safety then lies in keeping close to nature, in eat- 
ing freely of fresh fruits and leaf vegetables," raw vege- 
tables plain and in salads, in saving and using vegetable 
broths, in replacing fine, white flour bread with whole- 
wheat and Graham bread, in the eating of grains still 



^ The dietetic value of the leaves of plants (leaf vegetables) as compared with 
that of the seeds (grains and legumes) has been conclusively shown by the experi- 
nients of McCollum, Simmonds, and Pitz. The seed of the plant is its storehouse, 
and aside from the germ, contains no living matter. The seed, while rich in caloric 
food value, has a pi-otein of relatively poor quality ; it is low in inorganic salts and 
is deficient in the fat-soluble vitamine. The leaf of the plant is made up largely 
of living cells. It is the active respiring portion, the laboratory of the plant 
where starches, fats, and proteins are built up. This part of the plant supple- 
ments the nutritive shortcomings of the seed. We quote from McCollum : " From 
the results of experiments just described it was necessary to conclude that the leaf 
differs from the seed in that it contains in satisfactory amounts the dietary factors 
which are found in the seeds in too small amounts. These include the three in- 
organic elements, calcium, sodium, and chlorine, the fat-soluble A, and a protein 
supply which supplements, at ledst in some degree, the proteins of the seed. These, 
it will be remembered, are the three and only purified food factors which need to 
be added to each of the seeds singly in order to make it dietetically complete. It is 
therefore possible to devise a diet which is derived entirely from vegetable materials 
which will produce normal growth and the optimum physiological well-being." — 
" The Newer Knowledge of Nutrition," p. 64. 



80 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

retaining all their food elements, as brown ^ rice, oat- 
meal, whole wheat, and unbolted cornmeal, and withal 
to vary the diet, avoiding a monotony in the food 
supply. 

For the Children 

Especially should these things be borne in mind in 
the feeding of children. The importance of this cannot 
be overestimated. Children must have a varied diet of 
whole cereals, fruits, and a liberal supply of green vege- 
tables and vegetable broths. These with milk will in 
most cases supply their dietetic needs, with an abun- 
dance of the fat-soluble vitamine as well. (See Chapter 
XXI.) 

Do Not Starve While Feasting 

Many things contain vitamines, and while some of the 
foods in our daily ration may necessarily be devoid of 
them, with a little careful planning it will be found a 
very easy matter to add a sufficient quantity of foods 
rich in vitamines that the supply may be a liberal one. 
We need food for calories and for vitamines as well, and 
it is important that we remember the danger of " starv- 
ing while feasting." Obedience to all other laws of hy- 
giene and dietetics will avail one but little if one lives 
continually on a devitalized diet. 

We quote again from Dr. A. S. Gray: " The wise man 
takes no chances and simply sticks close to nature. 
This means eating simple, properly prepared, unproc- 
essed foods." 



^ The rice grain as it comes from the threshing machine, is incased in a husk, 
or hull, very much like barley. It is then known as *' paddy." When the husk has 
been removed, it is called " pearled rice," or " brown rice," because of the brown 
gluten coating found just under the husk. The next milling process removes this 
brown coat, when the grain becomes " milled rice," which is then separated into 
various grades ; the finest grain, being given a coating of glucose and talc, is 
then known as " polished rice." Brown rice as used here should not be confused with 
" browned " rice, as used on pages 115, 237, 294. 



CHAPTER X 

MINERAL SALTS 

A VERY important part of the* body structure is the 
mineral matter that enters into it. The ash of the body 
consists of chlorides, phosphates, sulphates, carbonates, 
fluorides, and silicates of potassium, sodium, calcium, 
magnesium, and iron. Iodine occurs also in the thyroid 
gland. In the body fluids, the principal organic salts 
are sodium chloride, sodium carbonate, and sodium 
bicarbonate, sodium phosphate, potassium chloride, po- 
tassium sulphate, calcium chloride, and calcium phos- 
phate. 

Everyday Names 

Some of these chemical elements are known by more 
common names, as potash for potassium, soda for so- 
dium, lime for calcium, and magnesia for magnesium. 
In common phraseology we hear of carbonate of potash 
instead of potassium carbonate; of phosphate of lime in- 
stead of calcium phosphate. It is interesting to know 
that the term " potassium carbonate " is but the chemical 
name for lye, as " calcium carbonate " is for chalk, lime- 
stone, and marble; that sodium chloride is our familiar 
table salt; sodium bicarbonate but another name for 
baking soda, and sodium carbonate synonymous with 
washing soda. 

Functions Many and Varied 

Lime salts in the form of calcium phosphate make up 
the principal part of the bones and teeth. Mineral salts 
enter into the composition of the blood and are found in 
all secretions and excretions. It is the presence of min- 

6 81 



82 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

eial salts in right proportion that maintains the proper 
chemical reaction of all body fluids and secretions; that 
keeps the blood alkaline, the gastric juice acid. It is the 
presence of mineral salts that maintains conditions of 
normal osmotic pressure, a proper rate of absorption in 
the digestive tract, and necessary interchange of all body 
fluids. The normal solvent power of the blood is also 
made possible by the presence of these inorganic ele- 
ments. 

Calcium salts are not only found in the bones and 
teeth, but are an important constituent of the blood it- 
self, where their presence helps to regulate the power of 
the blood to coagulate properly. Calcium salts are es- 
sential to all cellular growth and development, and are 
an important factor in governing the normal contractil- 
ity of muscle. 

Magnesium salts occur largely in the skeleton, but 
also in the soft tissues and fluids of the body. 

Iron is an essential element of the hemoglobin of the 
red blood cells, and thus plays an important part in the 
body processes of oxidation, secretion, and development. 
It is well known that iron is necessary for red blood ; 
hence the popularity of the " iron tonic." 

Phosphorus, as phosphates of potassium and calcium, 
enters into the structure of all body cells and is espe- 
cially abundant in the bones and in the central nervous 
system. In combination with sodium as disodium phos- 
phate, it aids in maintaining the normal alkalinity of 
the blood. (See page 85.) 

Sulphur enters the body as a part of the protein mole- 
cule, and is the source of the sulphuric acid formed when 
the protein molecule is broken down. (See page 85.) 

Sodium, in combination with chlorine as sodium chlo- 
ride, forms 60 per cent of the salts of the blood, and 
enters into the structure of all the tissues and secretions 



MINERAL SALTS 83 

of the body in greater or less degree. In the form of the 
bicarbonate, sodium plays an important part in the 
maintenance of normal blood reaction. 

While sodium salts predominate in body fluids, the 
cellular and soft solid tissues are especially rich in salts 
of potassium. Potassium chloride is an important salt 
of muscle tissue. 

Chlorine is found in the body principally as the chlo- 
rides of sodium and potassium. 

The contractility of muscle is affected not only by 
calcium salts, but also by the salts of sodium and potas- 
sium. It is necessary that the blood contain all these 
salts in proper proportion, in order that there may be 
the right relationship between muscular contraction and 
relaxation. The three remaining chemical elements men- 
tioned in Chapter I, and not already discussed, are pres- 
ent in the body in very minute quantities. 

No one mineral salt is limited to any certain class of 
body structures (unless it be the iodine of the thyroid 
gland), but all take part in a greater or less degree in 
the formation of all tissue, so the entire body suffers 
when there is a lack of any particular element. 

If Mineral Elements Are Lacking 

It is quite evident, then, why the food ration should 
include a goodly amount of mineral matter. The bones 
and teeth of a child soon suffer from a lack of lime 
salts in the food. An incomplete supply to the bony 
structures of calcium and phosphorus in proper propor- 
tions is undoubtedly a factor in the causation of rickets. 
The blood soon shows the effect of a lack of iron. Cel- 
lular tissues, particularly, suffer from a lack of phos- 
phorus, sulphur, and potassium; the blood and secretive 
processes from an incomplete supply of sodium and 
chlorine. 



84 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

Salts — Neutral, Acid, or Alkaline 

Perhaps the most important phase of the relation of 
mineral salts to the conduct of the body functions is in 
the maintenance of a normal degree of blood alkalinity. 
It is well known that acids are sour, as, for example, 
hydrochloric acid, citric acid, acetic acid; that alkalies 
are soapy, caustic, as caustic potash, soap, lye. Acids 
and alkalies in the right proportion neutralize each 
other and form harmless neutral salts. Every salt is 
a combination of an acid with an alkaline element. 
Alkalies are also spoken of as basic elements or bases. 
If the basic element predominates, or is stronger, an 
alkaline salt is the result. If the acid element is greater, 
the result is an acid salt. So in addition to neutral 
salts we have alkaline salts and acid salts. Sodium car- 
bonate (washing soda) and sodium bicarbonate (baking 
soda) are alkaline salts. The one is more alkaline than 
the other because it contains twice as much of the strong 
basic substance, sodium. The acids of fruits are in the 
form of acid salts — that is, salts containing less of the 
basic than of the acid element; for example, sodium 
acid citrate of citrous fruits. 

Alkalinity, Life — Acidity, Death 

It is not quite so commonly known, however, that it 
is necessary for animal life that the body cells be con- 
tinually bathed in a mildly alkaline fluid. Thus, we find 
the blood maintaining a degree of alkalinity equal to a 
definite proportion of sodium bicarbonate. In fact, it 
is the presence of sodium bicarbonate itself in the blood 
that maintains this constant reaction. In the animal 
body waste, decomposition and death ever result in acid 
formation. Constructive processes, repair, and life 
mean a preponderance of alkalinity. Balance in favor 
of alkalinity means life; in favor of acid means death. 



MINERAL SALTS 85 

How Acids Are Formed 

Acids are formed in the body in various ways. They 
are formed in a greater or less degree from all body 
wastes. As already suggested, they result from de- 
composition in the digestive tract, and oxidation proc- 
esses in the tissues. Muscular contraction results in the 
formation of iso-lactic acid. Interference with oxidation 
or elimination increases the acid content of the blood. 

But the greater part of the acid is produced in con- 
nection with the metabolism of protein. This acid is in 
the form of sulphuric acid. Eighty per cent of the sul- 
phur taken in as part of the protein is converted into 
this acid. This must at once be neutralized, for sul- 
phuric acid even in small concentration would be very 
injurious to the cells. 

How^ Neutralized 

The exact chemistry of neutralization is not fully un- 
derstood, but for those interested in chemistry, we give 
the following as illustrative of what probably occurs. 
Alkaline carbonates, e. g., sodium carbonate, react with 
the sulphuric acid, giving as a result sodium sulphate 
and carbonic acid (H,S0,+Na,C0;,=Na,S0,+H,C03). 
The strong base, sodium, uniting with the strong acid, 
sulphuric, is neutralized, and the weak acid, carbonic, 
is formed from the slight acid excess. The resulting 
carbonic acid, carried to the lungs, is eliminated as 
carbon dioxide (COo). 

The blood also contains disodium phosphate, a salt of 
phosphoric acid, and alkaline, because it contains a large 
amount of the base, sodium. This reacts with the sul- 
phuric acid (2Na,HPO,+H,SO,=Na,SO,+2NaH,PO,), 
and, as a result, there is left instead of the alkaline salt 
of phosphoric acid, an acid salt called sodium acid phos- 
phate. The alkaline salt contains twice as much sodium 



86 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

as does the acid salt. The sodium acid phosphate is 
then eliminated by the kidneys. 

How Eliminated 

So, through the lungs and kidneys, acid wastes are 
constantly being given off. The acidity of the urine and 
the elimination of carbonic acid from the lungs vary 
with conditions of metabolism so as to maintain a nor- 
mal balance between the acid and the alkaline elements. 
If for any reason alkali accumulates in excess, there is 
eliminated from the kidneys the alkaline phosphoric salt, 
d'sodium phosphate instead of sodium acid phosphate. 

Besides sodium there are two other important alkaline 
bases, potassium and calcium, which, in the form of 
their salts, play a leading part in neutralizing body acids, 
but the surplus alkali, or the alkali reserve, remains in 
the body as salts of sodium. The sodium bicarbonate 
content of the blood is looked upon as indicating the 
state of the acid-base balance of the blood, or, as quoted 
from Macleod, the " bicarbonate represents the excess of 
the base [or alkali] which is left over after all the fixed 
acids have been neutralized. It represents the base that 
is available for the neutralization of any such acids as 
may appear. It is a measure of the reserve of buffer 
substance, or more specifically, the alkaline reserve of 
the body." — Jolui James Rickard Macleod, M. B., in 
" Physiology and Biochemistry in Modern Medicine." 

The Body Living upon Its Own Tissue 

It is quite evident, then, why foods containing the 
important bases — sodium, potassium, and calcium — 
must constantly be taken into the body. If these alka- 
line elements are furnished to the body in insufficient 
quantities so that no basic materials are at hand to unite 
with the sulphuric acid, which results from the metab- 



MINERAL SALTS 87 

olism of protein, this acid seizes upon the salts of 
the body tissues, which, as one writer expresses it, 
" wrenches from their places the bricks of the structure, 
thus bringing about katabolic destruction of the organ- 
ism." It is ever true that when food elements are not 
supplied in sufficient amounts, the body first draws upon 
its reserve, and that being exhausted, upon its tissues. 

Source of Basic Salts 

These alkalies we do not take in as alkaline bases, 
which would be irritating, but as salts in which the 
strong alkalies are combined. When they are absorbed 
and oxidized, they are set free to neutralize the acid 
products of metabolism. Vegetables are rich in the alka- 
line salts that furnish the strong bases, — sodium, po- 
tassium, and calcium, — as well as in other mineral salts 
needed by the body. It is hard for some to understand 
why fruits as well as vegetables help to keep the body 
alkaline, but the reason is this : salts of fruits are in 
the form of acid salts of these three basic elements, and 
are in organic combination with oxidizable food sub- 
stances. When these food substances are oxidized in the 
blood and tissues, they yield the strong bases, which, 
forming carbonates, increase the alkalinity of the blood. 

It is to fruits and vegetables, then, that we must look 
for our supply of mineral salts, and as in the process of 
food analysis in the body, acid wastes are continually 
being formed, so as a result of the synthetic processes 
of the plant laboratory, there is elaborated a preponder- 
ance of alkaline material. 

Table Salt 

Potassium salts are supplied freely in vegetables, but 
it seems necessary to take some sodium chloride in the 
form of table salt in addition to t'lat furnished in vege- 



88 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

tables in order that sufficient sodium may be supplied to 
the body- Sodium chloride (table salt) is the one min- 
eral element that man voluntarily adds to his food. 
While it is often used in excess, a certain amount is 
needed. The reason for the necessity of this addition of 
salt depends upon the richness of vegetables in potas- 
sium rather than sodium salts. Potassium, being a 
strong alkaline base, neutralizes the sulphuric acid of 
protein metabolism, this resulting in the formation of 
potassium sulphate, in which form it is ready for elimi- 
nation by the kidneys. This potassium sulphate reacts 
with the sodium chloride of the blood and as a result 
of the interchanges, potassium chloride and sodium sul- 
phate are formed. This changes the sodium chloride, a 
salt normal to the blood, to sodium sulphate, one which is 
foreign to the blood content. Both it and the potassium 
chloride are quickly eliminated through the kidneys, 
leaving the blood deficient in its sodium and chlorine 
supply unless additional salt is added with the food. 
However, Sherman says that sufficient sodium would he 
supplied the body ivith one fourth the amount of table 
salt ordinarily used. 

Deficiency Diseases; Demineralized Foods 

If animals are fed on protein, fat, and carbohydrate, 
which have been separated from all mineral matter, they 
die sooner than if fed nothing at all, poisoned from the 
acid wastes which cannot be neutralized or eliminated. 

In the ordinary diet some mineral salts are ever in- 
gested, yet they are so often taken in such limited 
quantities that ill health and various debilitated con- 
ditions are frequently due to a diet deficient in this 
respect. Without doubt, deficiency diseases may as 
readily result from a diet in which necessary amounts of 
mineral salts are lacking as from a deficiency in vita- 



MINERAL SALTS 89 

mines and complete proteins. Fortunately, mineral salts 
go hand in hand with vitamines, and in planning- a diet 
to secure sufficient vitamines and complete proteins the 
mineral salts, in a way, take care of themselves. 

But we can see how an excessive carbohydrate diet, 
with its tendency toward acid fermentation in the di- 
gestive tract and carbonic acid formation in the tissues, 
tends to produce a condition of decreased alkalinity of 
the system. We can see also why cane sugar, the most 
concentrated form of carbohydrate, should be used in 
moderation ; also why honey, the natural fruit sugar, 
which carries in its own combination its mineral salts, 
largely in the form of calcium, is better than refined 
sugars; why starch in combination with mineral salts, 
as in grains still retaining their outer layer, is better 
than the refined starch of white flour and polished 
rice. It is very plain, too, why excessive amounts of 
concentrated fat in the diet are not the best, because 
of the tendency toward fatty-acid formation in a clogged 
digestive tract or in the backed-up wastes of an incom- 
plete metabolism. It is plain to be seen why fats al- 
ready in combination with mineral matter and proteins, 
as cream, olives, and nuts, are better than the refined 
variety. And again we have one of the best of arguments 
in favor of a vegetarian diet with its abundance of alka- 
line salts as against a meat diet with its excess of 
acid ash. 

Natural Foods 

Natural foods are ever furnished us in a combination 
that makes it possible for the body to care for them 
with the greatest ease. Natural foods come to us in 
combination with mineral salts and vitamines, thus fur- 
nishing with the calories the wherewithal to care for 
them and to counteract the untoward effects which 
might result from metabolic wastes. As man has en- 



90 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

deavored more and more to make his food artificial by 
extracting, refining, and devitalizing, he has made it 
well-nigh impossible for nature to do her part, thus 
bringing upon himself the handicap of a body working 
against great odds, in the struggle for health and effi- 
ciency. The following is of interest in this connection: 

" In regard to the calcium content of our food, inves- 
tigators have pointed out that there is an insufficiency 
of calcium as well as of other minerals, all of which 
are essential for perfect health. Demineralization of our 
daily food does not seem to have attracted the attention 
that it deserves. Sherman has stated that the ordinary 
mixed diet of the Americans and Europeans, at least 
among dwellers in cities, is probably more deficient in 
calcium than in any other chemical element. 

" McCann characterizes our food as ' processed, 
bleached, cotored, denatured, degerminated, demineral- 
ized, and chemically treated.' Foremost among these 
denatured foods are bread, milk, cereals, and sugar. 
Whole-wheat bread is difficult to obtain, or is not usu- 
ally eaten, only white bread. The outer part of the grain 
of wheat has to be removed to obtain white flour, which 
is practically all starch. The husk contains most of the 
mineral matter, including calcium, which is discarded. 

" Nearly one fifth of the mineral contents of raw 
sugar is calcium. In the manufacture of white sugar 
all of the mineral matter is removed. Molasses and 
refiners' sirup are by-products of sugar, and contain 
practically all of the mineral matter. White sugar will 
not crystallize unless the mineral matter is removed. 
It is calcium which prevents crystallization. 

" Candies are made from white sugar or glucose, 
neither of which contain mineral matter. Sugar and 
candy are therefore demineralized carbohydrates. Sta- 
tistics show that about eighty-five pounds of sugar per 



MINERAL SALTS 91 

capita are consumed every year in this country. The 
mineral loss in our daily food from this source alone 
must be enormous." — F. Tiveddell, M. D., iyi Medical 
Record, Jan. 28, 1922. 

Salts, Where Found 

For those who may ask for a summary of foods con- 
taining various salts, we will say : 

Mineral salts are contained in all natural unrefined 
foods; they are abundant in all vitamine-containing 
foods. Especially are they found in leafy vegetables and 
fresh fruits. They are found in milk, legumes, and nuts. 

Iron is found in green vegetables and highly colored 
fruits, as cherries, strawberries, currants, etc. Egg 
yolks are rich in iron, as also whole grains, oatmeal, 
dates, prunes, raisins. 

Phosphorus is found in egg yolks, in milk, in wheat 
bran, in beans, peas, oatmeal, and nuts. Calcium is 
abundant in milk, in all greens, carrot tops, turnip tops, 
etc. It is also found in oatmeal, peas, beans, nuts, cit- 
rous fruits, and prunes. Potassium is abundant in all 
^ egetables, especially the leafy vegetables. The potato 
is rich in potassium salts. Sodium is found in all vege- 
tables, but not to the same extent as is potassium. 

All complete protein foods are rich in sulphur. The 
body cannot utilize sulphur except when in combination 
with the protein molecule. 

Acid-f ormiyig elements predominate in meat, eggs, 
cereals. Base- forming or alkaline elements are greater 
'n fruits, leafy vegetables, potatoes, carrots, turnips, 
beans, peas. Milk contains a balance of the two. 

In an intelligently planned diet there will be avoided 
a preponderance of food yielding an acid ash and there 
will be assured an abundance of those foods furnishing 
alkaline end products. It should not be forgotten that 
there may be troubles from having the body ash too 
alkaline. 



CHAPTER XI 
FRUITS 

In the past, fruit has not been accorded its proper 
place. While ever considered delightful and palatable, 
it is only recently that its real nutritive value has been 
established. There are few who realize the importance 
of a daily supply of fruit, preferably fresh, in the food 
ration. People eat fruit as they often eat candy, oc- 
casionally, irregularly, and between meals. Many will 
allow weeks to pass without partaking of fresh fruit. 
This may be due to thoughtlessness, lack of knowledge, 
or economic reasons. If any food must be left out, it 
is usually fruit, because it is considered a luxury, not 
an essential. 

This is, however, a mistake. Other food will go far- 
ther and in the long run the expense need be no greater 
if allowance is made for supplying the body with the 
vital food elements as found in fruit. 

Fruit Sugar 

As has been said, the caloric value of fruit lies in the 
carbohydrate which it contains. This is found in fruit 
as dextrose — glucose — which, as we have seen, requires 
no digestion. Closely related to dextrose, and practically 
of the same chemical composition, is levulose. Together 
these two simple sugars in fruit make up what is called 
fruit sugar. So in fruit we have a naturally predigested 
food, together with cellulose, which, by reason of its 
bulk, is a natural laxative. 

The exquisitely flavored acid of fruit, which adds so 
much to its desirability, not only is an appetizer and a 

92 



FRUITS 93 

delight to the palate, but has a definite favorable action 
upon the digestive tract. It is a direct stimulant to the 
gastric and intestinal glands, increasing the flow of the 
digestive juices. It also stimulates the muscular wall 
of the stomach and bowel. Thus in every way it in- 
creases digestive activity. For those who cannot take 
much cellulose, the fruit juices are a great help by 
reason of their natural laxative action. 

Fruit Acid 

Fruit acid also has a decided antiseptic action in 
the digestive canal. It lessens bacterial activity in the 
mouth, sweetens the stomach, helps to check intestinal 
fermentation and putrefaction, and thus markedly less- 
ens the formation of poisons resulting from germ ac- 
tivity in the alimentary tract. It is well known that 
acid fruits, such as the lemon, orange, and grapefruit, 
help to clear up a coated tongue, sweeten the breath, 
and are good for a torpid liver and biliousness. The 
bitter principle in grapefruit is said to act particularly 
on the liver. 

Acid Salts 

The good influence of acid fruits does not, however, 
stop here, but is felt in an effective way after they are 
taken into the blood. The food value of the fruit fills 
a definite place as fuel in the body oxidation processes, 
but it is in the effect upon the blood that the most 
beneficial action is obtained. The acid of fruit is in 
the form of acid salts. They are organic salts of cal- 
cium, sodium, and potassium; for example, the calcium, 
sodium, and potassium citrate of the citrous fruits. 
These salts are in combination with the oxidizable sugar, 
and in the process of their oxidation and disintegra- 
tion they yield the strong bases sodium and potassium. 



94 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

These, foiming carbonates, definitely increase the alka- 
linity of the blood. 

This is a very desirable and necessary result, for, in 
counteracting the acidity resulting from protein wastes, 
it helps to maintain the normal alkaline reaction of the 
blood, and thus tends to neutralize the conditions asso- 
ciated with lessened alkalinity as found in rheumatism, 
gout, etc. (See Chapter IV, p. 31.) The grape, the 
prune, the plum, and the cranberry, while beneficial, 
do not affect the alkalinity of the blood to the same ex- 
tent as the other fruits, for example, the apple, the 
orange, the lemon, the grapefruit, etc. 

It was thought for years that fruit inci eased a tend- 
ency toward rheumatism, but we know now that this 
is not the case, but that most fruits lessen this tendency, 
and so are among the best rheumatic cures. 

Nature's Medicine 

The vitamine content of fruit (see Chapter IX) is 
perhaps its most valuable asset. It is well known that 
fresh fruit, especially the citrous fruits, will cure scurvy. 
It is also true that they are valuable in other con- 
ditions of malnutrition. Fruit may well be considered 
nature's medicine. Fruits from which the juice can 
easily be extracted are of especial worth, one reason for 
the value of the orange, the lemon, and the grapefruit. 
Such juices may often be given invalids and children 
who could not take the cellulose accompanying the 
amount of juice they may be able to take with ad- 
vantage. These citrous fruits also rank first in their 
content of vitamines and mineral salts. 

From an editorial in the Journal of the Americmi 
Medical Association we quote: " The role of orange juice 
in averting disaster under certain conditions of feed- 
ing, or in promoting the nutrition on certain dietary 
regimens, is beyond dispute." 



FRUITS 95 

" In water-soluble vitamine, orange juice is compara- 
ble with cow's milk volume for volume. It yields all the 
present known vitamines. . . . Apples, pears, prunes, 
also contain the water-soluble vitamine." 

" Fruits always regarded as palatable are having 
their real worth established at length in a scientific 
way." 

Tomatoes a Substitute for Orange Juice 

Tomatoes have been found to rank with oranges in 
their content of alkaline salts and vitamines. While 
often used as a vegetable, dietetically they must be con- 
sidered a fruit. When oranges are found too expensive 
or are difficult to obtain, babies can be saved from 
scurvy by giving them tomato juice, and that even from 
canned tomatoes. This has been done with gratifying 
results among the poorer classes in large cities. 

Fruits also contain a small amount of protein, usually 
about 5 per cent of their food value. The orange and 
the grapefruit contain as high as 6 or 7 per cent of 
their food value in protein. The food value of the 
banana is 7 or 8 per cent protein. While fruit can- 
not in any sense be depended upon to supply protein, 
yet, for some reason not well understood, those who eat 
an abundance of fresh fruit seem able to do well on a 
diet furnishing a smaller amount of protein than do 
those who eat little or no fruit. Perhaps this is partly 
due to the " protein sparing " action of the fruit sugar 
(see page 95), and paitly to the high vitamine content 
of the fruit (see page 75). 

Stewed Fruit 

The dietetic value of fruit is often counteracted to an 
extent by the large amount of cane sugar added. It 
will be found a great advantage to eat fruit in as nat- 



96 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

ural a condition as possible. When sugar is added to 
stewed fruits, it should be cooked with the fruit. In 
this way the heat and fruit acid tend to change the 
cane sugar into the simple predigested dextrose, which 
results in a more natural and more easily digested com- 
bination. While stewed fruit is better than none, it 
can never quite take the place of fresh fruit. The 
heating, to an extent at least, devitalizes the fruit, and 
the added sugar tends to counteract the alkalizing 
effect of the fruit. It seems that the more acid the fruit 
the more stable are its vitamines. It is said that the 
juice of some berries, especially the raspberry, may be 
boiled an hour without losing its vitamine value, also 
that lemon juice may be boiled, bottled, and kept indefi- 
nitely without losing its vitality. The acidity of the 
tomato seems to thus stabilize its vitamine, so that the 
juice of canned tomatoes can be made to take the place 
of orange juice when the latter is not obtainable. 

The Banana 

While it cannot take the place of acid fruits, and 
dietetically may in some ways be classed as a vegeta- 
ble, the banana is a food of great worth. Its food value 
is similar to that of the potato. Its percentage of protein 
is somewhat lower, but its proportion of alkaline min- 
eral salts is about the same. Too often it is eaten un- 
ripe, and, in this form, is indigestible because of its high 
content of raw starch. In the process of ripening, this 
starch is changed to sugar, and the ripe banana, with 
its yellow-brown speckled peel, is a food delightful in 
flavor and easy of digestion. It should, however, be 
properly masticated. Too often it is gulped down with- 
out sufficient mastication. Ordinarily a ripe banana 
eaten slowly and well masticated should cause no trou- 
ble, and may be well taken by children. 



FRUITS 97 

How Fruit May Be Eaten 

Some with catarrhal stomachs find that they do not 
take fruit well because of an irritated condition of the 
mucous membrane brought on by some other cause. In 
this condition the stomach lining cannot bear even the 
normal stimulation of the fruit acid and its cellulose. 
The trouble is not with the fruit, but with the primary 
state of gastric irritation. In some others, due to ab- 
normal excitation or naturally irritable mucous lining, 
an excessive amount of the normal acid of the stomach 
is secreted, and the already irritated mucous membrane 
does not seem to bear well the addition of any more 
acid, even though it be the normal acid prepared by 
nature for us as food. However, even in these abnormal 
states, there is usually some way by which the fruit or 
fruit juice can be taken, and many of these persons do 
well if they eat fruits alone, not trying to combine them 
with other foods. Many who cannot eat fruit can drink 
fruit juice, say an hour before meals. Others may find 
that a fruit meal agrees with them if no other food is 
taken. This may be a fruit breakfast or a fruit lunch. 

Dried fruits, as raisins, prunes, dates, figs, are a val- 
uable source of fruit sugar, and may be used alone, or 
in combination with nuts and cereal to make very 
pleasing additions to any meal. For children they are 
invaluable as a means of satisfying the desire for 
sweets. 

Nuts and Olives 

Botanically, nuts and olives may be classified as 
fruits, and for sake of convenience we will discuss them 
here. Nuts are of great value in the vegetarian diet as 
a natural source of fats and protein. The greater part 
of the food value of nuts is fat. The protein varies 
from 10 per cent of the food value in the walnut, to 

7 



98 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

15 to 18 per cent in the almond. The peanut, a legume 
rather than a nut, contains, of its total value, about 20 
per cent protein. Nuts contain practically no carbohy- 
drate. The fat of the nut is in the best form for di- 
gestion, because it is already in a combined, emulsified 
state. 

The protein of the nut is of a very good quality. 
On this point, see quotation, page 209. As a natural 
source of concentrated food, supplying the most calories 
in the least bulk, nuts should have first place and should 
be eaten, not as knickknacks, but with true regard for 
their actual nutritive value. Too often they are eaten 
after a meal, when their food value is not needed and 
only imposes an extra tax on digestion and metabolism. 
But if they are allowed to take a definite place in sup- 
plying the body needs and are properly masticated, they 
are a food of great value. 

Ripe olives, properly prepared, are a valuable source 
of fat, and may be eaten with good results by persons 
who cannot well take sufficient fat in any other form. 
They may be eaten at any or every meal, and if prop- 
erly masticated, are easily digested and assimilated. 
There is no question but that the advantages looked for 
in the use of butter, may be obtained from the proper 
use of olives and nuts, providing the leaves of plants are 
used freely to supply necessary vitamines (see page 
103). 



" There is ifi fruits and vegetables an appar- 
ent safeguard." — Journal of the American Med- 
ical Association. 



CHAPTER XII 
VEGETABLES 

A Universal Food 

No other food is so universally used by all classes 
as the vegetable. No daily ration seems complete with- 
out it, no matter how elaborate the other foods may be. 
Few live so largely on a meat diet that they do not 
feel the need of the accompanying vegetable to make 
their meal satisfactory. And to those who have adopted 
a fleshless diet it becomes, more than ever, an impor- 
tant part of their dietary, and greater dependence is 
placed upon it in the making up of their daily ration. 
Greater thought and care must then be accorded its 
preparation and more attention paid to the part it 
plays in the meal. 

Why of Value 

Vegetables are valuable because of their cellulose, 
which, as before stated, serves as necessary bulk; be- 
cause of their richness in mineral salts so essential to 
the blood and tissues ; because of the great amount of 
vitamines they supply, without which the organic proc- 
esses could not be carried on; and because of actual 
caloric food value, which is in very small amounts in 
some vegetables, but more abundant in others. Leafy 
vegetables, as lettuce, spinach, celery, cabbage, etc., 
while low in calories, furnish a goodly portion of these 
calories in the form of complete proteins. Green vege- 
tables contain a large amount of water. 

Botanically, vegetables may be classified as follows: 

1. Roots — carrots, turnips, beets, parsnips. 

2. Tubers — potatoes, sweet potatoes. 

99 



100 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

3. Leaves — lettuce, cabbage, cauliflower, asparagus, 

spinach, greens, etc. Onions are underground 
leaves. 

4. Seeds or legumes ^ — peas, beans, lentils, peanuts, 

soy beans. 

The Seed Versus the Leaf 

From a dietetic standpoint, McCollum divides vege- 
tables (including grains) into two classes: the leaf 
(leafy vegetables) and the seed (grains and legumes). 
The seed of the plant is its storehouse and, aside from 
the germ, contains no living matter. The seed, while 
rich in caloric food value, is low in inorganic salts; 
is deficient in the fat-soluble vitamine, and its protein 
is not complete. 

In contradistinction to the seed, the leaf of the plant 
is made up largely of living cells. It is the part of the 
plant that breathes; it is the laboratory of the plant 
where starches, fats, and proteins are built up. This 
portion of the plant contains those elements in which 
the seed is relatively poor. 

The Potato 

Roots and tubers, while not seeds, must to an extent 
rank with the seeds, as they are largely composed of 
storage material. The part of these vegetables which 
may be classified with the leaves is the outer portion 
just under the skin, or that part usually discarded in 
paring. We quote : " The potato is to be classed with 
the seeds in its dietary properties because it consists 
largely of reserve food materials and relatively little of 
cellular elements. The results available indicate that if 
the potato is steamed and the thin paper-like skin re- 
moved without the loss of the cellular layer which lies 



1 In this class may also be placed the grains. 



VEGETABLES 101 

just underneath, it will contain relatively more of the 
fat-soluble A, a lack of which leads to the development 
of the peculiar eye conditions previously described, than 
do the cereal grains. ... It would seem that a potato 
which is pared in the ordinary way and the paring dis- 
carded, is changed in its dietary properties in much the 
same way as is the rice kernel during the polishing 
process." — McCollum, in "The Newer Knowledge of 
Nutrition," p. ^7. 

Comparative Costs 

And again : " We may safely compare the cost of the 
cereal grains or the legumes with each other, or with 
the tubers such as the potato or the sweet potato, or with 
the root foods. It is not possible to compare the cost 
of any of these with milk or the leafy vegetable, such 
as cabbage, cauliflower, Swiss chard, collards, Brussels 
sprouts, onions, lettuce, celery tops, spinach, turnip tops, 
and other leaves employed as greens. Milk and the 
leafy vegetables are to be regarded as protective foods. 
. . . The leaves should not be regarded as foods of 
low value because their content of protein, fat, and car- 
bohydrate is low, and the content of water high. . . . 
But they have a peculiar value . . . which makes 
them stand in a class by themselves among vegetable 
foodstuffs." — Id., pp. 14-1, 142. The proper combina- 
tion of vegetables as to their kinds and parts becomes 
then quite apparent. 

How Much Cellulose? 

The bulk of most vegetables is cellulose. The cellu- 
lose of some vegetables is tougher and more indigestible 
than that of others. The cellulose of vegetables is often 
more digestible raw than cooked, as for example, cab- 
bage, which can be eaten raw by many who find it im- 



102 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

possible to take it cooked. The amount of cellulose well 
tolerated by the digestive tract depends on the inherent 
strength of its muscular wall. Some can take a large 
amount of bulky food ; others find food containing much 
cellulose difficult of digestion. All, however, need a cer- 
tain portion of cellulose, or roughage, to stimulate the 
bowel to normal muscular activity. Much depends on 
the preparation of the food, the time spent in eating it, 
and the thoroughness with which it is masticated. With 
thorough mastication many of the bulkier foods ordi- 
narily considered indigestible may be well taken and 
properly handled by the digestive tract. 

All vegetables are rich in mineral salts, the leafy vege- 
tables especially so, as we have seen. The potato also 
contains an abundance of alkaline salts, and, for this 
reason, is useful in conditions where it is desirable to 
render the blood more alkaline. This, no doubt, is the 
reason why the combination of " meat and potatoes " 
has always been so satisfactory ; the acid ash of meat 
metabolism being neutralized, to an extent, by the alka- 
linity of the potato. 

An Iron Tonic 

Green vegetables are particularly valuable for the 
iron salts they contain, thus being very helpful in cases 
of anemia. The iron obtained in this way is appropri- 
ated by the body to a much greater degree than that 
taken as " iron tonic " out of a bottle. The green color- 
ing matter of the plant is known as chlorophyl. Chlo- 
rophyll is the respiratory and starch-making portion of 
the plant, and is essential not only to plant life but to 
animal life as well. Hemoglobin, the red coloring mat- 
ter of the blood, is analogous to the chlorophyl of the 
plant, and just as chlorophyl is necessary to plant life, 
so is hemoglobin necessary to animal life. Green vege- 



VEGETABLES 103 

tables contain substances closely related to the red of 
the blood, and the quality of the hemog-lobin of the blood, 
with its iron content, may be altered materially by a 
deficiency or an abundance of these important and 
vitalizing fluids. 

The vitamines present in these green and leafy vege- 
tables make them invaluable as an article of diet, both 
for the invahd and for the person in normal health; for 
the child as well as for the adult. For the child they 
are especially valuable because of the " fat-soluble " 
vitamine they contain, which has to do with normal 
growth and development. (See Chapter IX.) 

Spring Fever 

In cities and countries where green vegetables can- 
not be obtained during the winter months, people often 
suffer the results of a vitamineless diet. Dr. Evans, a 
noted health writer, says that one half of the people in 
the cities have a touch of scurvy every winter. This 
may account for the epidemics of " spring fever " so 
prevalent as winter ends, and the use of liver pills and 
blood purifiers at this t'me of the year. All vegetables, 
however, contain vitamines, and when green vegetables 
cannot be obtained and fruits are expensive, the proper 
preparation of winter vegetables may supply necessary 
vitamines. The skins of winter vegetables partake of 
the nature of the leaf, and may be utilized in such 
a way as, to some extent, to take the place of leafy 
vegetables. 

While those parts of the vegetable which are made 
up largely of caloric food material in storage, are com- 
paratively low in protein, the protein value of the leaf 
and skin is relatively high and of the best quality. It 
is interesting to note that, while the total food content 
of leafy vegetables is often low, of this low total a high 



104 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

proportion may be protein, ranging from 25 to 40 or 
even 50 per cent. 

The actual energy value of vegetables varies within 
rather wide limits from the cabbage, containing 2 to 5 
calories to the ounce, to the bean, furnishing a food 
supply of 65 calories to the ounce. 

Hot Weather Food 

Green vegetables contain much ivater, as high as 
from 80 to 92 per cent. For this reason an animal 
feeding largely upon leaves and green vegetables drinks 
much less water than one subsisting upon a diet of 
grain. For this reason green vegetables are especially 
good as "hot weather food." 

Raw Foods 

The question of the preparation of vegetables is a 
most important one. Uncooked vegetables contain the 
highest percentage of vitamines, and such vegetables as 
carrots> turnips, cabbage, as well as lettuce, water cress, 
tomatoes, celery, etc., may be eaten raw with great ad- 
vantage. These prepared in the form of salads may be 
served in a most attractive way. (See recipes. Chapter 
XXXI.) In this they may, to an extent, take the place 
of fruit. Says Leonard Williams, M. D., of London, in 
the British Medical Journal, of July 31, 1920, in speak- 
ing of an exclusive raw food diet : " Now this intensive 
vitamine dietary, the exclusion, that is, of all cooked 
foods and drinks, is extraordinarily efficacious thera- 
peutically. It not only assists other forms of treatment 
by improving the soil and re-enforcing the defenses, 
but it is of itself, positively curative in most forms of 
chronic disease." 

The process of cooking unfortunately often greatly 
lessens the nutritive value of vegetables. It is possible, 



VEGETABLES 105 

however, so to prepare and cook them that they will 
not lose their nutritive and vital elements; and it is 
very important that this be accomplished. 

A Waste 

The ordinary method of vegetable preparation in- 
cludes the removing of the skins and those parts con- 
taining the tough, more fibrous portion of cellulose, such 
as celery tops, asparagus butts, pea pods, etc. These 
parts, however, contain many of the valuable salts and 
vitamines and often a comparatively large amount of 
protein. For example, the greater part of the protein 
nourishment lies, with the salts and vitamines, just 
underneath the skins of such vegetables as the potato, 
carrot, etc., and so is lost when these are thrown away. 
(See quotation, page 100.) Carrot tops are said to be 
particularly rich in calcium or lime salts. 

Food Value Lost 

When vegetables are boiled, a considerable portion of 
the remaining nitrogenous elements and vitamines passes 
into the broth, and not infrequently is thrown down the 
sink, instead of being used where it is so often sorely 
needed in the supplying of body needs. " When potatoes 
are peeled, allowed to stand in cold water and then 
boiled, they lose about 50 per cent of their protein and 
40 per cent of the mineral matter and vitamines. As 
usually prepared and cooked, carrots lose 40 per cent of 
their protein food value and 25 per cent of their sugar." 
The cooking of other vegetables results in about the 
same loss. In this way much of the delightful flavor 
is lost, and the vegetables lose to a great extent their 
satisfying palatability. 

To Prevent Waste 

These losses may be prevented in a number of ways. 
Vegetables may be cooked without paring. They may 



106 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

be baked, boiled, or steamed, the skins being removed 
just before serving, or eaten, as in the case of- baked 
potatoes, A very satisfactory way to prepare vegetables 
is to steam them. Even better than to put them directly 
into a steamer, is to put in the steamer the vessel in 
which the vegetable is to be cooked ; cover well, so that 
the steam will come in contact with the vegetable over 
the sides of the smaller pan. This method retains in 
the vegetable all the valuable elements and gives it a 
very delicious flavor. 

The water in which vegetables are boiled should never 
be thrown away, but should be saved and used as a 
basis for soups and gravies. Better still, cook them in 
a small amount of water so that there is no broth left. 
They should always be cooked in salted water. The salt 
in the water helps to prevent the extraction of the salt& 
from the vegetables. 

Vegetable Extracts 

As a variation and for those members of the family 
not able to digest cellulose well, vegetable broths and 
purees may be prepared in such a way as to supply all 
valuable vegetable elements except the cellulose. The 
vegetables, having been thoroughly cleansed with a 
brush, may be cut up and cooked without paring, or the 
parings may be cooked by themselves (see recipe 24, 
Chapter XXXI), and in this way the nutritive elements 
extracted. This being a process of extraction, instead 
of retention, the cooking may be more prolonged than 
otherwise and better at the simmering point, i. e., 
190° F. instead of 212'' F., the ordinary boiling tem- 
perature. A somewhat prolonged cooking of one and 
a half or two hours tends to quite thoroughly extract 
the food elements from the vegetable. In this case the 
vegetables should be cooked in unsalted water, this tend- 



VEGETABLES 107 

ing to draw the salts from the vegetables into the broth. 
Pressing through a colander or sieve will separate the 
skins and cellulose and leave practically all the nutri- 
tive elements in the broth and puree. The elements 
thus extracted contain the meaty savor which is an ap- 
petizer and tonic. 

Delicious soups may be made in this way, and from 
the standpoint of economy they are well worth while, as 
parts are used that ordinarily find their way to the gar- 
bage can. Outside lettuce leaves, celery tops, tops of 
turnips, beets, carrots, the tougher portions of aspara- 
gus, and even pea pods may be boiled, and from these 
portions will thus be obtained food elements that will 
greatly increase the total value of the vegetable. Pea 
pods may be boiled and then the peas cooked in the pea 
pod broth. The water in which the asparagus butts 
have been boiled, may be used in which to cook the as- 
paragus tips. Prepared in these economical ways, vege- 
tables no longer remain simply carbohydrate food, but 
may be made to supply to the body a comparatively 
large portion of nitrogenous material. 

Vegetables should be cooked until tender, but care 
should be taken that they are not overcooked or allowed 
to become water soaked. Cooking is often prolonged 
much beyond the necessary time, and this at a high 
temperature, which tends to devitalize the food and in 
no way increases its tenderness or desirability. The 
prolonged subjection to heat may even toughen it. 
Spinach is often cooked one to one and a half hours, 
when cooking from twenty to thirty minutes is usually 
quite sufficient, leaving the vegetable much more desir- 
able as a food. 

Effect of Cooking on Vitamine 

Just how much cooking destroys vitamines is a de- 
bated question. While, as a general principle, we must 



108 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

concede that raw food contains more vital elements than 
cooked, and that every one should eat some raw food 
daily, yet many vitamines, especially those of vegetables, 
are in stable combination and the effect upon them of 
cooking may be very slight. Dr. George F, Still, of 
London, is quoted in the British Medical Journal of July 
31, 1920, as follows: "It has been generally supposed 
that the antiscorbutic vitamine is easily destroyed by 
heat; in curious apparent contradiction of this view is 
the powerful antiscorbutic effect of potato after being 
thoroughly cooked. One of the most rapid cures for in- 
fantile scurvy is floury baked potato, which is given 
beaten up with the infant's food. If there is a differ- 
ence between foods in this respect, it may, I would sug- 
gest, depend not merely on the amount of vitamine 
present, but upon the manner in which the vitamine is 
contained in the food; one can imagine, for instance, 
that the vitamine may, to borrow a chemical phrase, be 
in looser combination in one food than in another, and 
so may be more exposed to destruction by heat." 

The nutritive value of vegetables has become estab- 
lished beyond a doubt. It is important that they form 
a large part of every daily ration, not only for the adult, 
but also for the child. They should be considered a 
real food rather than merely a relish, and they will 
occupy a place in the role of nutrition that they have 
never had when housewives learn to prepare them in 
such a way as to retain all their food elements. 



" Thou shall eat the herb of the field."- 
Bible. 



CHAPTER XIII 

BREADS AND CEREALS 

The StaflF of Life 

Bread is the staff of life and without the homely 
loaf we would often feel unsatisfied, even though sur- 
rounded by the most tasty viands. Some one has well 
said that " there is true religion in a loaf of good 
bread." Today, when the cost of living is high, the 
quality of our bread becomes a question of the greatest 
importance, and when we are confronted with the fact 
that the refined flour of today has been robbed of life- 
giving properties by the removal of the outer layer of 
the grain, it behooves us to cultivate a taste for real 
Graham bread and demand whole flour instead of that 
which has been devitalized. (See Chapter IX.) 

The Whole Grain 

Whether bread is made from wheat, rye, or corn, flour 
containing the whole grain should be obtained whenever 
possible. In this way not only are the valuable vita- 
mines and mineral salts saved to the body, but the ex- 
tra bulk is a great help in the prevention and treatment 
of constipation. One of the most generally recognized 
foods indicated in constipation is bread containing an 
excess of bran. However, the addition of sterilized 
bran to bread made from devitalized flour, while of 
some benefit, cannot take the place of bread containing 
both the coarse outer covering and the vitamines which 
would be found in Graham bread made from real Gra- 
ham flour. 

Genuine whole-wheat or Graham flour is difficult to 
obtain, but its value as a food is worthy of a determined 

109 



110 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

effort to obtain it and to eat it every day as bread, 
raisin bread, nut bread, or gems. The flour sold as 
whole wheat is usually a combination of a few of the 
several low grades of flour, middlings, and bran pro- 
duced by the roller processes, and so does not contain 
vitamines. 

After being ground, the outer layer containing the 
germ will not keep more than a few weeks and so can- 
not be stored indefinitely. For this reason the manu- 
facturers will not keep it on hand until the demand for 
it is greater than it has been. But the occasional small 
miller can often be found who will grind the whole 
wheat berry, as it is called for, or the wheat can be 
ground at home in a small mill or even in a coffee mill. 

Home-Ground Wheat 

Several families may club together and buy a mill, 
in which a supply of whole-wheat flour may be ground 
for them all. This has been done by many with satis- 
factory results. We are too often prone to do the easy 
thing, but a sense of the importance of having the best, 
most wholesome bread will result in a determined effort 
to obtain it, and '' where there is a will there is a way." 

Whiteness Not an Indication of Quality 

"When it is not possible to obtain real whole-wheat 
bread, a general rule that is quite safe to follow is that, 
other things being equal, dark bread is better, even 
though baker's bread, than white, in that it undoubtedly 
is richer in mineral salts. A step has been taken in 
the right direction when the public can be made to see 
this and to get away from the idea that the better the 
bread the whiter it is. It is well to remember that 
natural foods have color as compaied with refined foods; 
e. g., brown sugar has mineral elements of which the 



BREADS AND CEREALS ill 

white refined variety is entirely devoid. Fortunately, 
we are not dependent upon bread alone for vitamines, 
and what we miss by being obliged, at times, to eat 
devitalized bread we may make up by using freely of 
other vitamine-containing foods. 

Fresh Bread 

Given bread made from flour which is of the right 
quality, it should be prepared in a way that will permit 
of easy digestion. Bread raised with yeast, most com- 
monly used and undoubtedly the best, should, of course, 
be light and sweet; but aside from these qualities there 
is another qualification to which we pay little attention, 
and that is the process through which bread passes 
after it is baked. Fresh bread is difficult of digestion, 
and this difficulty is enhanced by the common addition 
to it of large amounts of butter. Being soft, it is not 
thoroughly masticated, and it is often swallowed in 
masses which become soggy in the stomach. The gas- 
tric juice is unable to mix thoroughly with it, digestion 
is delayed, and fermentation results. On the other hand, 
if bread is allowed to stand for twenty-four hours or 
more, important changes take place which eliminate its 
indigestible qualities. It becomes drier, separates into 
small particles more readily, and certain chemical 
changes actually occur in the protein as the bread 
becomes stale that greatly increase its digestibility. 

Oven Toast or Zwieback 

These conditions are enhanced when bread is twice 
baked, as in oven toast, and for one with a weak di- 
gestion there is no bread so well received by the 
stomach. The starch is partly digested by the extreme 
heat and we speak of it as being " dextrinized." Its 
brittleness allows of easy solution by the digestive fluids. 



112 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

The Wrong Way 

Toast, as often made, is not better than fresh" bread. 
A slice of bread is taken and browned superficially, 
leaving the center soft and often more like fresh bread 
than if it had not been toasted. This is then covered 
w^ith butter and reheated, making a combination in the 
" hot buttered toast " as ordinarily served, that can 
hardly be called hygienic, even though commonly con- 
sidered under the head of invalid dietary. The thorough 
mastication of hard breads would tend to prevent much 
of the premature decay of teeth so prevalent among the 
American people. Here as elsewhere are often seen the 
results of lack of exercise, and the teeth tend, because 
of disuse, to fall into degeneration and premature 
decay. 

Devitalized Bread 

Baking powder and soda breads are not the best for 
several reasons : 

1. They are usually made of refined, devitalized flour. 

2. They are served hot, and eaten with an excess of 
butter. 

3. Soda and baking powder destroy the vitamines, so 
even though whole grain were used, the addition of 
these powders would tend to devitalize the grain, with 
a resulting vitamineless bread. 

4. Baking powders, even though the best, leave in the 
bread a chemical residue, the continuous ingestion of 
which is not conducive to health. 

In a baking powder two substances are combined, one 
alkaline, the other acid, in character. The alkaline sub- 
stance is soda, the acid may be cream of tartar, acid 
phosphate, or an acid salt of alum. The chemical re- 
action between the acid and the alkali results in the 
formation of carbonic acid gas (COo) and a salt. The 
gas passes off and makes the bread light, the salt is 



BREADS AND CEREALS 113 

left behind as a residue in the bread. In the alum 
baking powders the residue is particularly unhealthful. 
Analysis has shown that a cream of tartar baking 
powder leaves about 70 per cent of its own weight in 
Rochelle salts as a residue and that the acid phosphate 
leaves about 35 per cent of its own weight in sodium 
phosphate. These salts are all saline cathartics. Ro- 
chelle salts is the basic element of a Seidlitz powder. 
From the United States Department of Agriculture in 
Bulletin No. 13, we receive the information that " a loaf 
of bread made from a quart of flour leavened with 
cream of tartar baking powder contains forty-five grains 
more of Rochelle salts than is contained in one Seidlitz 
powder." Also, in a report on baking powders by the 
Referee Board of Consulting Scientific Experts, ap- 
pointed by the United States Department of Agriculture, 
we read that " it is wise to be moderate in the use of 
foods that are leavened with baking powders." Dr. A. 
Warner Shepard, formerly health officer in Brooklyn, 
said : " I have not the slightest doubt that the mental 
and physical health of thousands is permanently in- 
jured by the excessive use of Rochelle salts in bread and 
other forms of food and drink. It irritates the kidneys, 
bowels, and stomach and may therefore produce most 
unfortunate results." 

How to Use Soda 

5. Soda, if used at all, should be used with an acid 
in exact proportions, so that there may be no excess of 
alkali. The most accurate way to use it is with hydro- 
chloric acid in the proportion of one exactly level tea- 
spoon of soda to 80 minims of hydrochloric acid. In 
this way the following chemical reaction takes place: 
HCl (hydrochloric acid) -f NaHCOg (soda) =: NaCl (salt) 
+ HoO (water) -f COo (carbonic acid gas). The end 



114 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

products are simply common salt, water, and carbonic 
gas or carbon dioxide. This measurement, however, 
must be exact. Only the careful housewife should use 
this combination. 

We quote from " The New Cookery," by Lenna Frances 
Cooper: "It is advisable when using hydrochloric acid 
to have a minim glass, which can be purchased for a 
small sum at any drug store. One perfectly level tea- 
spoon of soda is neutralized by 80 minims of hydro- 
chloric acid. The hydrochloric acid must be chemically 
pure (marked C. P.) and in the concentrated form. 
One teaspoon of soda and 80 minims of hydrochloric 
acid are equivalent to four level teaspoons of baking 
powder. . . . For most recipes, one-half teaspoon of 
soda and 40 minims of hydrochloric acid are sufficient 
to use with one cup of flour." (For warm breads with- 
out baking powder see Recipes, Chapter XXXI.) 

Very satisfactory breakfast gems may be made with- 
out the use of baking powder or soda. These are best 
made with whole-wheat or Graham flour and are light 
and easy of digestion (see recipes 1 and 2), 

Cereals as Protein Foods 

Cereals are very useful foods, and it is most impor- 
tant that their comparative values be understood by the 
housewife. The greater part of the protein of all cereals 
is found in the pericarp and just beneath it, so any 
whole cereal is comparatively rich in protein. Even rice 
ceases to be merely a starchy food when not deprived 
of its outer covering. The tables in Chapter VI give 
the approximate protein value of these foods. Whole 
or cracked wheat, oatmeal, and whole rice contain 13 
to 18 per cent of protein, and so are of great help in the 
making up of the necessary daily ration of nitrogenous 
food. The proteins of cereals, which are often incom- 



BREADS AND CEREALS 115 

plete, need to be supplemented by those of other foods, 
as milk, eggs, and vegetables. This is due in part to the 
fact that much of the cereal eaten has been deprived 
of important proteins in the outer covering. However, 
a monotonous diet largely of cereals or of a single cereal 
should be avoided. (See Chapter VI.) 

To Cook Cereals 

Cereals should be thoroughly cooked, preferably in a 
double boiler or a fireless cooker. The length of time 
required varies, but is usually two and one-half to six 
hours. This softens the outer covering and prepares the 
grain for easy and complete digestion. For invalids or 
for small children, it may be necessary to serve cereals 
without the rough elements, but the prolonged cooking 
has put into solution most of the salts and vitamines of 
the outer layer, and they are not lost to a great extent 
when only the harsh exterior is strained away. Gruels, 
while usually considered invalid dishes, make a nice 
variation from the ordinary breakfast mush and may 
be served for a change to the entire family for break- 
fast or as an evening lunch. (See recipes 19, 20, 
Chapter XXXI.) 

For many, the dextrinized cereals, as cornflakes, wheat- 
flakes, shredded wheat, etc., are much easier of digestion 
than mushes, which are often soggy and swallowed with- 
out sufficient mastication. Mushes, when served, should 
be prepared in such a way as to render them dry and 
flaky, and should be eaten with proper regard for masti- 
cation. 

Rice which has been browned in the oven before 
cooking, and thus its starch dextrinized, makes, when 
eaten with milk or cream, a very agreeable breakfast 
dish, and is very easily digested. 



CHAPTER XIV 

DAIRY PRODUCTS 

Dairy products have ever played an important part 
in the nutrition of civilized man, and a shortage of these 
valuable foods must always be regarded as a calamity. 
From this source, protein that has been elaborated in 
the animal body may be obtained, lessening markedly 
any necessity for the use of meat, even by those who 
depend upon animal protein for their supply of nitrog- 
enous food. Associated with these proteins, are min- 
eral salts and vitamines which add greatly to their 
value. Milk is an important source of the fat-soluble 
vitamine, and egg yolk is rich in iron. Milk and 
eggs, being produced primarily for the nutrition of the 
young of the animal, are rich in those things necessary 
for body development and the formation of new tissue. 

Variation Possible 

Not only is milk itself of value for children, invalids, 
and general family use, but the products derived from 
it make possible an agreeable and helpful variation in 
the form in which the protein and fat of milk may be 
served. Those who do not care for milk to drink, 
usually take it freely as used in cooking, in milk soups, 
creamed vegetables, on cereals, in custards, puddings, 
desserts, etc. There are few families where milk in 
some form as a seasoning and constituent of various 
dishes is not deemed a necessity. As buttermilk and 
cottage cheese, the protein of milk may be served in a 
very valuable form, and one most easily used by the 
body. The various forms of cheese are used the world 
over, and by many are considered indispensable. Butter, 

116 



DAIRY PRODUCTS 117 

the concentrated fat of milk, is the most commonly used 
of free fat, and few would be able to eat a satisfactory 
meal without it. 

Eg-gs, except when prices are prohibitive, are com- 
monly used in every household, and are served in so 
many ways that they may be used daily without ap- 
parent monotony. 

Necessary Considerations 

There are many things in regard to these important 
foods to which the attention of the people should be 
continually drawn : The purity of their source, with pos- 
sibilities and probabilities for contamination, their care 
before reaching the consumer, what proportion of the 
daily diet they can well make up, and their action in 
the digestive tract, with resultant effect on the blood and 
tissues. These and more should receive careful consid- 
eration. 

Danger of Contamination 

Milk.^ — The source of milk is unfortunately ever 
more or less questionable because of the disease of ani- 
mals, the great care necessary to avoid contamination 
at time of milking, and the varying length of time 
after milking that elapses before it is taken as food.- 
Nature intended the milk to pass directly from the 
mother to her young, with no interval affording possi- 



'See also Chapter XXVIII. 

^ The problem of our milk supply is expressed by Rosenau as follows : " Milk 
is responsible for more sickness and deaths than perhaps all other foods combined. 
There are several reasons for this: (1) Bacteria grow well in milk; therefore a 
very slight infection may produce widespread and serious results ; (2) of all food- 
stuffs, milk is the most difficult to obtain, handle, transport, and deliver in a clean, 
fresh, and satisfactory condition ; (3) it is the most readily decomposable of all 
our foods ; (4) finally, milk is the only standard article of diet obtained from animai 
sources consumed in its raw state." 

" Fresh milk products may be quite as dangerous as the milk from which they 
are made," states Rosenau ; but he goes on to say : " Milk is a perfect food for the 
suckling. It contains all the essential elements of a well-balanced diet for the 
adult, and at prevailing prices, it is one of the cheapest of the standard articles of 
diet. Furthermore, it is readily digestible and is capable of a great variety of 
modifications. The sanitarian, therefore, has every reason to encourage the use of 
pure milk as well as to discourage the use of impure milk." — " Preventive Medi-. 
cine and Hygiene," pp. 494, 495. 



118 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

bJlity for contamination. Even greater danger than in 
the disease of the animal itself, lies in the many. oppor- 
tunities for contact with germs and impurities at the 
time of and after milking, and the ease with which 
milk undergoes deterioration and putrefaction after it 
leaves its source. The milk, even from a tubercular cow, 
may be of very good quality, providing contamination 
from the discharges of this cow can be prevented at 
time of milking. It is said that infections of milk al- 
ways occur at the time of the drawing of the milk from 
contact with extraneous impurities, e. g., the milker's 
hands, the hairs and exhalations from the cow, stable 
dust, etc. 

However, much has been done by health authorities 
to minimize the dangers of impurity, and it is possible 
in all cities to obtain milk guaranteed as to its cleanli- 
ness. The regrettable feature about this is its effect 
upon the price of good milk, making it in many cases 
almost prohibitive. 

A Friendly Germ 

Possibilities for deterioration of milk from the time 
of milking until it finally reaches the consumer are 
many, and again make it difficult to know that milk is 
in good condition, except in the case of certified milk. 
Fortunately, milk sours before it becomes very old, and 
the lactic acid formed inhibits the action of putrefactive 
germs. This natural protective measure ordinarily pre- 
vents the using of milk in which putrefaction has set 
in. However, under certain conditions, as refrigeration, 
the activity of the lactic acid germ may be inhibited 
and the milk putrefy before it sours, accounting for the 
bad taste, known to housewives, of milk which, though 
not sour, has stood a long time in the ice box. This 
milk is harmful, sour milk is not. The only general rule 



DAIRY PRODUCTS 111) 

for knowing that all milk used, while perhaps not clean, 
is at least sterile and safe to use for all purposes, is to 
boil it. 

While this may be said to lessen the value of its vita- 
mines, these can be supplied by other foods and the 
milk still furnish its other food elements unchanged. 
Diseases spread by unclean milk are many. Among 
them are pus infections, typhoid fever, tuberculosis, and 
scarlet fever. 

Boiled Milk 

As it is also known that the boiling of milk changes 
it from a solid food, as evidenced by the large, tough, 
leathery curds formed in the stomach from raw milk, 
to a relatively liquid food in which the curds are small 
and easily digested (see page 175), it makes the question 
of the advisability of boiling milk, especially for chil- 
dren, a nondebatable one. Boiled milk, unless in sterile 
containers, as bottled baby's milk, should never be al- 
lowed to stand a long time after boiling, but should be 
used soon. 

All animal protein is more or less susceptible to putre- 
faction in the digestive tract. The using of milk which 
is fresh and as nearly sterile as possible, or in its lac- 
tic acid form, as cottage cheese or buttermilk, greatly 
lessens the probability of putrefactive processes in the 
alimentary canal. It is very important that there should 
be included in the diet a goodly amount of such foods as 
fruit and green vegetables, which will facilitate intes- 
tinal activity and thus prevent conditions of stagnation 
and putrefaction. 

Stale Milk 

Pasteurizing milk, or heating it to a temperature of 
140° F., kills the disease-producing germs and postpones 
souring. It does not, however, to the same degree pre- 
vent putrefaction. 



120 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

So it is possible for the milk to deteriorate greatly, 
so much so that putrefactive processes may set in be- 
fore it sours, just as in refrigeration. Pasteurization, 
while in many ways beneficial, has too often meant stale 
rather than fresh milk. Raw milk, obtained as fresh 
as possible and boiled before using, is, in the author's 
opinion, to be preferred to Pasteurized milk. Evapo- 
rated milk may be used in cooking if fresh foods are 
used freely. It should be remembered that it is a de- 
vitalized food, and should never be depended upon to 
take the place of fresh milk. 

How Much Milk? 

The amount of milk that can be used by different in- 
dividuals varies greatly. It depends upon the form in 
which it is taken and the amount of other protein food 
in the diet. If meat is included, much less milk is 
needed. For vegetarians, milk affords a valuable means 
of furnishing the concentration of protein often nec- 
essary to balance the excessive amount of concentrated 
energy food taken. When it is found that the protein 
ration falls short of the necessary 200 or 250 calories, 
it can easily be brought up to normal by the use of 
milk protein in some form; as milk, buttermilk, or 
cottage cheese. Good cottage cheese is one of the best 
forms in which milk protein can be taken, and is usu- 
ally well borne even by those having a weak digestion. 
Cheese is difficult of digestion, and may well be eaten 
sparingly, if at all. 

Butter is of value because of its food concentration 
and its content of fat-soluble vitamine. However, much 
more butter is eaten by nearly every one than should be. 
In the amounts in which it is eaten it helps to increase 
the excess of fat eaten by the American people, and as 
an excess of free fat, is often a hindrance to digestion. 
(See Chapter VII.) Withal, it tends to partake of the 



DAIRY PRODUCTS 121 

disadvantages of contamination to which all animal food 
is liable, and being rather unstable, it easily becomes 
rancid, especially when subjected to heat. 

How to Obtain Fat-Soluble A. 

These facts should be remembered, and butter ob- 
tained in as fresh and clean a condition as possible. It 
should be used, as all concentrated foods, in moderation, 
and better not at all in cooking. Much more butter is 
given to children than necessary or advisable. It is 
much better that they obtain their butter fat, with its 
fat-soluble A, in the milk itself, the food value of which 
is 50 per cent fat. Or, if necessary, in added cream. 
The vitamine value of their milk should be supplemented 
by the high vitamine content of green vegetables and 
fruits, especially orange juice and tomato. These vege- 
tables and fruits also increase intestinal activity, thus 
combating the tendency of milk to favor intestinal putre- 
factive processes. It is not the butter that children 
need particularly, but the vitamine that it contains, and 
if a sufficient supply of these vitamines can be secured 
without butter, there can be no advantage in depending 
upon butter for a greater supply. Speaking of experi- 
mental studies along these lines, an editorial in the 
Journal of the American Medical Association of April 
12, 1914, says : " It is through such laborious studies, 
in which American physiologists have been conspicuous 
pioneers, that the danger of identifying certain butter 
substances with butter has been averted." 
A Source of Iron 

Eggs are of great value, first for the complete protein 
of the egg white; second, for the iron and vitamine 
content of the yolk. Egg protein, as that of milk, is 
often a great help in balancing the diet of one whose 
daily ration is top-heavy in energy food and low in 
protein. 



122 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

A Protective Combination 

Eggs are digested with ease in the stomach. Their 
disadvantage lies in the fact that they tend to favor 
intestinal putrefaction ; for this reason, their reputation 
for producing biliousness. But combined in a properly 
planned diet and eaten in moderation, they need not do 
this. Eaten in excess, they tend to produce the results 
that follow an excess of protein in any form. One in- 
cluding in one's diet animal proteins of any kind, cannot 
permit to any degree a condition of intestinal stagnation, 
because of the putrefactive conditions to which animal 
protein is ever subject. For this reason the successful 
use of animal proteins in the diet depends upon their 
being combined with a large amount of fresh fruits and 
green vegetables, both of these tending to combat the 
putrefactive tendency of the protein food. Children who 
can have plenty of milk are just as well off without eggs, 
as the simpler, less stimulating diet may be considered 
better for them. 

Eggs, as well as milk, should of course be obtained as 
fresh as possible, and from hens that are clean and well 
kept. Not only is the purity of the egg affected by the 
condition of the hen itself, but also by contact after the 
egg is laid. The shell being porous, impurities are soon 
absorbed. So it is a great advantage when eggs can 
be gathered as soon as laid and washed before being 
put away. 

Eggs in What Form? 

It matters little in what form eggs are served, soft, 
medium, or hard boiled, poached, or scrambled, or in 
the form of an omelet. The fried egg is rather indi- 
gestible, as are all fried foods. A hard-boiled egg, if 
masticated well, is quite as digestible as any other. One 
of the best ways in which to prepare eggs is to boil 



DAIRY PRODUCTS 123 

them twenty to thirty minutes, or until the yolk is 
mealy. Egg yolks prepared in this way may be a valu- 
able source of iron and vitamines for children and invalids. 

There is not the advantage in raw eggs once ascribed 
to them. Experiments have shown that cooked eggs are 
more easily digested than raw, unless the raw egg is 
thoroughly beaten, so that the tenacious white is thor- 
oughly divided. The beaten egg added to gruels, soups, 
or served as fruit eggnog (see recipe 110) is often of 
advantage in the feeding of the sick, and, served with 
fruit, as prune or apple whip, etc., helps in making 
pleasing and healthful desserts. 

Not altogether so healthful as has been supposed are 
desserts in which milk, eggs, and sugar are combined. 
Intestinal fermentation and putefaction are in many 
cases favored by this combination. 

Again we would urge, that if one wishes to combat the 
digestive disadvantages of a diet including animal pro- 
tein, one should realize the importance of a free use of 
those foods which will make impossible any abnormal 
delay in the passing of these animal proteins through 
the digestive canal. Too often an excess of animal pro- 
tein is taken under conditions of liver torpidity and 
intestinal sluggishness, which furnish a most fertile field 
for the growth of the putrefactive bacteria so prone to 
act upon protein foods. Because of the delay in diges- 
tion, there is ample time for these putrefactive proc- 
esses to be carried to the point of extreme toxin forma- 
tion with harmful systemic effects. 

With a free amount of fruit and vegetables, this 
tendency may in most cases be largely overcome. 



CHAPTER XV 
FLESH FOOD: IS IT A DIETARY ESSENTIAL? 

Discussion I — Desire 

A VEGETARIAN was asked the question, " Why do you 
not eat meat?" His reply was, "Because I no longer 
have any desire for it ; " and he added, *' I turn with 
aversion from the thought of partaking of it, and were 
it not for the occasional sight of some one enjoying 
heartily his meaty viand, I might almost forget that 
others are different from myself in this respect or that 
meat is served as an article of food." 

This vegetarian had almost forgotten just why he did 
not eat meat. It wasn't that the doctor had said he 
shouldn't, or that he couldn't afford it; his first thought 
in answer to the question was, " I don't want it." 

The reason he gave for the fleshless diet is a very 
important one; for, unless one can reach such a state 
of mind, one's vegetarianism is liable to be a failure. 
And, after all, there are very few of us who will resist 
for an indefinite period a craving for some article of 
food or drink, no matter what the theory or how great 
the determination; either the desire abates and finally 
flees, or we drift back into the old habit and thus sat- 
isfy the clamor of appetite's demands. 

Again, who can say that an insatiable craving that 
persists in spite of time and determination, is anything 
less than a physiologic demand for some needed element 
or combination of which the body is being deprived? 
Today, when meat is the most expensive of foods, there 
are few who would not be more than willing to omit it 
from their bill of fare, could they feel satisfied and well 
nourished without it. 

124 



FLESH FOOD 125 

Habit and Education 

Our gustatory likes and dislikes are the result of two 
things : First, an expression in our consciousness of body 
needs ; second, habit or education. A change in our 
mode of eating must not fail to guarantee to the body 
all food essentials. Habit and education, however, often 
require readjustment. This necessitates a knowledge 
of why the change is being made and the right mental 
attitude on the part of the individual. With body food 
requirements satisfied and intelligent mental co-opera- 
tion, re-education becomes a simple matter. 

In many ways, eating is largely a matter of habit. 
The tribes of Central Africa eat their pudding of mashed 
ants with as much relish as we our calves' brains or 
pickled pigs' feet. But few of us would partake with 
very much enthusiasm of our favorite meat dish, with 
all its uncertainties, had not habit accustomed our minds 
to the thought. 

Just now I think of a rosy-cheeked lad of ten, who, 
having never tasted meat, stares with an expression of 
abhorrence and absolute lack of understanding upon the 
rare occasion of seeing others indulge with zest in 
the wing of a chicken or a juicy beefsteak. But rules, 
theories, our better knowledge, even our sense of es- 
thetics, often avail little as against habit, custom, and 
appetite's clamorous appeal. And so I say again that 
the reason given above is of great importance and per- 
haps the only one that will hold good in the last analysis. 

Re-education 

But how may such a mental attitude be acquired? 
By re-education and a satisfactory alternative in the way 
of a sense of well-being and complete nutrition on a 
diet which does not include flesh food — " if there be 
first a willing mind." The number of vegetarians is 



126 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

increasing, and there are many who have long since 
reached the period in their physical existence where 
flesh food no longer finds a place on their table or in 
their daily dietary. Many of these are contented, well 
nourished, and splendid physical specimens, and of the 
same mental state as the vegetarian quoted. The 
thought is growing that the American people eat far 
too much meat, and that the ideas of the people are 
already being greatly modified as to the desirability of 
this class of food. 

Discussion II — Need 

Scientific investigation has shown quite conclusively 
that body needs can well be supplied without the use of 
meat. Says McCollum, of Johns Hopkins, after experi- 
mental work covering a period of years : " Lacto-vege- 
tarianism [a vegetarian diet including milk] ... is, 
when the diet is properly planned, the most highly sat- 
isfactory plan which can be adopted in the nutrition of 
man." — " The Newer Knowledge of Nutrition," p. 52. 

The food principles of a complete diet are: carbohy- 
drates (or starches and sugar), fats, protein, mineral 
matter (or salts), vitamines, cellulose, and water. The 
first two are heat and energy foods; the second two are 
building material for the body; the fifth contains the 
vital elements found in fresh and raw foods, the pres- 
ence of which makes it possible for the body to conduct 
its life processes; the sixth, passing through the di- 
gestive tract, furnishes necessary bulk; the seventh, 
as solvent, diluent, and conductor, holds an important 
place. 

Quality Versus Quantity 

It is of great importance that these food elements be 
supplied to the body in proper amounts and proportions, 
but it is quite as important that quality as well as 



FLESH FOOD 127 

qiimiiity be considered. Especially is this true of ni- 
trogenous foods. The structure of the proteins is more 
complex than that of any of the other food classes, and 
a complete protein is said to contain some eighteen ni- 
trogenous combinations, called amino acids, and often 
likened to " building stones." In order to build the 
many and varied body tissues, the protein part of our 
food must supply all of the eighteen building stones. 
A protein that lacks in any of these is said to be in- 
complete. It is then of greatest importance that we 
know where complete proteins are found, in order that 
our food may contain all that is necessary to keep the 
body in the best of repair. 

The value of meat as a food lies in the protein which 
it supplies. These proteins, being in the form of the 
actual muscle and tissue of the animal, are complete in 
that they contain all necessary protein elements. But 
meat cannot be depended upon to supply food elements 
other than protein. It supplies energy food only in so 
far as it contains fat. To insure vitamines it should 
be eaten raw, with a large quantity of the blood. To 
furnish a sufficient amount of mineral matter it would 
be necessary to eat the bones. 

Blood and Bones 

Quoting again from McCollum : " The pronounced de- 
ficiencies of muscle tissue [lean meat] as a foodstuff", 
naturally suggests the question of the reason for the 
success of the nutrition of the strictly carnivorous ani- 
mals. The explanation is found in the order in which 
such creatures select the parts of the carcasses of their 
prey. The larger carnivora, after striking down an ani- 
mal, immediately open the large veins of the neck and 
suck blood as long as it flows. Their second choice of 
tissues is the liver, and following this the other glandu- 



128 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

lar organs. Muscle tissue is only eaten after these have 
been consumed. With such a selection the animal se- 
cures everything which it needs for its nutrition except 
a sufficient amount of calcium, and this is obtained 
through gnawing off the softer parts of the extremities 
of the bones." — " The Newer Knoivledge of Nutrition," 
pp. 78, 79. 

Protein Letters 

This plan hardly being feasible for any of us, we find 
ourselves, vegetarians or otherwise, dependent upon the 
vegetable kingdom and on foods other than meat for a 
large part of our food supply. As has been said, meat 
contains all necessary protein, but during the process of 
digestion, the meat fiber must become disintegrated and 
the protein elements dissolved out and reduced to the 
before-mentioned elemental substances just the same as 
if the protein had been taken in some other form. After 
absorption these amino acids, or " building stones," or 
" letters of the protein alphabet," as they are sometimes 
called, are put together again to form the different kinds 
of body tissue, or to form, if you please, the complete 
epistle of the human organism. (See Chapter VI.) The 
origin of these amino acids, whether animal or vege- 
table, matters not. After being separated by digestion, 
they stand side by side unrecognizable as to source. The 
only question of importance is, Is there an adequate 
supply of each of the necessary eighteen " building 
stones"? or is there a suflficient number of each of the 
protein letters so that the body epistle may be properly 
written ? 

Therefore, if we can be certain that our diet contains 
all essential protein material, both as to quality and as 
to quantity, we can reasonably draw the conclusion that, 
whether or not it is meat when we partake of it, is of 



FLESH FOOD 129 

little consequence. And it is evident that, if a diet can 
be devised apart from meat that will supply to the sys- 
tem a sufficient amount of complete proteins, meat v^ill 
be proved unnecessary. 

Value of Vegetable Proteins 

This has indeed been very conclusively shown. Stu- 
dents of nutrition now tell us that without a doubt it 
is quite possible to obtain sufficient and complete pro- 
teins without the use of flesh foods. Experimental evi- 
dence abounds to show that the proteins of milk, eggs, 
and of leafy vegetables as well, are of at least as good 
a quality as those of meat, and that in a large number of 
cases they are more readily utilized by the body. Milk 
and the leafy vegetables stand side by side as so-called 
" protective foods " in that they insure an easily avail- 
able supply of complete proteins as well as an ample 
amount of vitamines and mineral salts. These, com- 
bined with the proteins of legumes and cereals, make it 
possible to supply the necessary quality as well as the 
required quantity. 

Discussion III — Economy 

The question of economy, both personal and for the 
nation at large, leads us to question carefully the ad- 
visability of the use of so large an amount of flesh food 
as is yearly consumed by the American people. Our 
recent food conservation campaign has taught us the 
extravagance of feeding so much of food grains to ani- 
mals and then eating the animal. Dairy products are 
much more vitally necessary than is meat. Meat can in 
no way be said to take the place of milk as a food. A 
shortage of milk is ever a disaster. " A well-nourished 
cow, during a year will give in the form of milk as 
much protein and two and a half times as many calories 
as are contained in her own body." What a shame, then. 



130 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

to kill the cow for food and stop the supply of milk 
which in another year's time would more than equal the 
food value of her own body, with still the source of sup- 
ply for other years to come. 

Dr. Graham Lusk says : " Everything should be done 
to conserve our herds of cows for the increased supply 
of whole milk." And again: "Let no family (of five 
persons) buy meat until it has bought three quarts of 
milk, the cheapest protein food." In general, twice as 
much meat is used as is right; for to produce meat, 
requires much fodder which might better be used for 
milk production." — Address given at the National Mu- 
seum, Washington, D. C, Aug. 30, 1917. 

Why Choose Second-hand Foods? 

The food emergency arising as the result of the war, 
was met in perhaps the most satisfactory way by the 
Danes. Their plan consisted in reserving the available 
cereals, as well as a large proportion of the potatoes 
grown in Denmark, for the people themselves, instead of 
feeding them to the domestic animals, particularly cat- 
tle and hogs. This soon greatly reduced the supply of 
meat, and the Danish people thrived on the diet of vege- 
tables and dairy products thus saved to them. When 
it has been conclusively shown that the human organism 
can utilize vegetable products first hand, what is the 
advantage, I ask, of the added expense resulting from 
the feeding of these natural foods, first to animals, and 
then our taking them second hand, as it were, through 
the flesh of the animal? 

The war, with its demands for rigid economy, is over, 
but the question of feeding the world remains a live 
one and the high cost of living a personal problem with 
us all. Economy consists in spending " not less, but 
more wisely," and may not the decision to derive our 



FLESH FOOD 131 

protein food from a less expensive source be one prac- 
tical way of helping to solve the problem. 

Some may say, " But is not milk expensive, and al- 
most as much so as meat?" Yes, too true, but milk 
furnishes us, besides its protein, many things that meat 
does not. We get " more for our money," and a re- 
duction in the use of meat would help greatly in lessen- 
ing the cost of milk. Then, too, few realize the great 
value of leafy vegetables as regards their complete pro- 
teins, and that an intelligent use of these will help to 
supplement the somewhat incomplete proteins of cereals 
and legumes. Now is the time to know foods and their 
values. 

Discussion IV — Purity 

So far so good. We have found that meat may become 
unnecessary from the standpoint of gastronomic desire 
or of body need ; in these days of the high cost of living 
we find so many other ways of spending our money that 
why need the question be considered further? How- 
ever, for the sake of those who, because of education, 
habit, and cultivated taste are being " convinced against 
their will," we will proceed still further: 

Two classes of foodstuffs are available to every one 
of us: First, that which is clean, pure, and wholesome, 
at the same time wholly adequate for body needs ; second, 
that which is impure and tainted, — food, that while sup- 
plying valuable food principles, supplies them in combi- 
nation with impurities of various kinds, introducing into 
the system, along with the food, poisons and filth. 
These are a great handicap to a digestive tract in its 
effort to prepare food for absorption; to a liver, doing 
its utmost to filter out from the food-ladened blood all 
poisons absorbed from the digestive tract; and to the 
circulating fluids of the body, in their effort to keep 
themselves free from impurities as they carry nutri- 



132 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

ment to the cells and tissues. When possible to obtain 
food that is pure and uncontaminated, why should. there 
be any hesitancy in the choice? 

Clean and Unclean 

The time was when flesh food was divided into two 
classes, " clean and unclean." Today it is no longer 
possible to do this; animals, fish, and fowl are alike 
tainted with disease, disease germs, and poisons. A 
large amount of meat put out for food has been taken 
from carcasses parts of which have been rejected be- 
cause of disease. According to statistics, where one 
carcass is rejected entire, three to ten are rejected in 
part, the other portion being put on the market. 

Post-mortem condemnations for one year in the United 
States were: 

Rejected Entire Rejected in Part 

Cattle . 35,103 99,739 

Swine 86,912 799,300 

Sheep 10,714 170 

Goats 82 1 

Note the number of carcasses rejected only in part, 
indicating that the remaining portions were retained as 
fit for food. 

Inflammations, abscess, tumor, or tuberculosis, in 
one part of the animal's body, is not necessarily con- 
sidered sufficient reason for the rejection of the entire 
carcass. 

And again, " Of some five hundred livers in one lot, 
only forty were, according to the testimony of one in- 
spector, considered good enough for export. The rest 
were reserved for home consumption." These things are 
to be said of meats most carefully inspected. In out- 
of-the-way places and smaller, carelessly inspected 
slaughterhouses, it may be left to the imagination as 



FLESH FOOD 133 

to the character of the meat sold. We quote the fol- 
lowing : 

Slausfhterhouses 

" At nearly all slaughterhouses inspected, foul, nause- 
ating odors filled the air for yards around. Swarms of 
flies filled the air and the buildings and covered the 
carcasses which were hung up to cool. Beneath the 
houses was to be found a thin mud, or a mixture of 
blood and earth, churned by hogs, which were kept 
to feed upon the offal. Maggots frequently existed in 
numbers so great as to cause a visible movement in the 
mud. Water for washing the meat was frequently drawn 
from dug wells which received seepage of the slaughter- 
house yards, or the water was taken from the adjoining 
streams, to which the hogs had access. Dilapidated 
buildings were the usual thing, and always the most re- 
pulsive surroundings and odors existed." — Slaughter- 
house Inspector of Indiana. Government Bulletin. 

Many frankfurters and Bolognas are said to consist 
largely of horse meat, immature veal, and decrepit and 
sick cows, tuberculous and otherwise. Prepared sausage 
casings have been found to contain about five grams 
(about a teaspoonful) of excrement per meter. 

Pork 

Pork, of all meats, is especially unfit for food. Filth 
is the hog's natural element, and it is impossible for its 
flesh to be wholesome. Its flesh often swarms with 
parasites, and trichinosis caused by the eating of 
incompletely cooked pork, is too well known to need 
discussion. 

Fish and Fow^l 

Fish may become contaminated by the filth on which 
they feed. Having come in contact with the sewage of 
large cities, they may pass into distant waters and be 



134 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

caught where the water is pure and fresh. In pur- 
chasing fish from the market it is impossible to. know 
their source. It is a very common occurrence to find 
fish fresh from the market or fish wagon with worms 
crawling out of their flesh. 

Thirty per cent of oysters, five miles from sewer 
outlets, contain the colon bacillus, a germ whose habitat 
is the human intestinal tract. 

" Not long ago the Metropolitan Sewage Commission 
of New York and the Merchants' Association made an 
exhaustive investigation of waters and oyster beds sur- 
rounding New York, and reported the harbor to be one 
vast cesspool, foul with disease germs and undissolved 
sewage matter. Two million oysters were taken an- 
nually from these waters." — National Food Magazine. 

" The pernicious practice of fattening oysters on sew- 
age has been the cause of untold deaths from typhoid 
fever in the past." — Roberts. 

Those who have to do with the raising of chickens 
know how commonly they may be diseased, and that in 
partaking of even this meat a risk is run of taking that 
which is unwholesome and impure because of disease. 

Animals of any kind may be apparently well and yet 
have disease in their systems and be killed for food just 
before the symptoms of the disease manifest themselves. 
It is absolutely impossible to be always certain that any 
animal at the time of its slaughter is free from disease 
which perhaps has not yet manifested itself outwardly. 

A Wise Provision 

Meat as ordinarily prepared and eaten, even though 
from healthy animals, can hardly be considered pure 
food. Instructions to the Israelites controlling their 
preparation and use of meat, enjoined them not to 
eat the blood. Harrington and Richardson's " Practical 



FLESH FOOD 135 

Hygiene " says : " The Jewish method of slaughtering 
is regarded by many as far superior to any other. Ac- 
cording to Dembo, it is most rational from a hygienic 
standpoint, since the animal is bled rapidly and com- 
pletely." So meat, if eaten at all, should be thoroughly 
cleansed from all its juices, which, for many, would de- 
tract greatly from its desirability. 

Egg Tea 

When meat juices are eaten, there are introduced into 
the organism ' poisonous wastes which would have been 
eliminated through the kidneys had the animal lived. 
We quote the following from Dr. A. L. Benedict, in the 
Journal of the American Medical Association: " A meat 
broth . . . contains salts, extractives which are mainly 
excrementitious, and a little gelatin, as well as some 
melted fat, although the last is often skimmed off to 
make the broth more pleasant and palatable. In so far 
as protein is concerned, a meat tea made by boiling 
cannot be more nourishing than egg tea, that is to say, 
the water in which eggs are poached ; or in plain words, 
it contains no protein nourishment at all and is, barring 
certain qualitative and quantitative differences, of the 
same dietetic value as urine." 

These wastes are much the same as the caffeine of 
tea and coffee, with some of their stimulating action. 
So, one leaving off flesh food often misses this stimu- 
lation and thinks he must have meat to give him 
strength. These wastes impose upon the body processes 
great handicap, in the caring for and elimination of 
them, in addition to like wastes normally present as a 
result of tissue processes. 

Decomposition 

Putrefactive processes also play a part in the de- 
terioration of flesh food. The ever-present germ be- 



136 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

gins its work upon the flesh of the animal as soon as 
life is extinct, and decomposition begins immediately. 
The products of putrefaction are not all poisonous, but 
very often deadly poisons are formed; and poisoning 
produced by decayed meat and fish is not an unknown 
occurrence. This form of poisoning is known as pto- 
maine poisoning, ptomaines being organic bases result- 
ing from the activity of bacteria on nitrogenous matter. 
These ptomaines may be formed, after the meat is eaten, 
through changes occurring in the intestines as a result 
of the excess of protein and the stagnation in the bowel. 
However, decomposition has, in most cases, progressed 
to a great extent before the meat is eaten. Often meat 
is not considered ready to eat until it has reached a 
certain stage of putrefaction and perhaps is ready to 
fall to pieces. 

Ripe Meat 

Food Inspector Dodge, of the District of Columbia, 
testified that families of social prominence in Washing- 
ton preferred " ripe " meat because it was more tender. 
" Many savage peoples prefer putrid fish and meat, and 
the more rotten it is, the greater their enjoyment in its 
consumption. In less degree, the same is true of many 
of the most enlightened people, who prefer game when 
decomposition is fairly well advanced." — Harrington 
and Richardson's "Practical Hygiene," edition 1911, 
p. 66. 

In however good condition meat may be taken, it is 
very liable to putrefaction in the intestinal tract. It 
has been estimated by competent observers that, of the 
flesh food eaten, one tenth to one seventh putrefies or 
rots in the intestine. This may greatly increase a tend- 
ency toward intestinal toxemia or auto-intoxication. 

As our imagination becomes active, it is not difficult 
to imagine a state of mind in which the thought of 



FLESH FOOD 137 

meat as a food becomes absolutely distasteful, with, in- 
deed, a sense of relief when it is established beyond 
doubt that meat is in no way necessary for food; for 
it is from the esthetic viewpoint that we are most 
easily influenced, perhaps, in spite of the fact that, 
theoretically at least, we are desirous of maintaining 
ourselves in health, and of avoiding disease. But in 
order that the discussion of our subject may be com- 
plete, we will continue a little further. 

Discussion V — Excess 

The excess of protein often resulting from a meat 
diet may be a factor in the production of the condition 
which we have called suboxidation (see Chapter IV). 
The metabolism of protein results in the formation of 
a solid ash (see page 28), and when too much protein 
is eaten, this ash may become excessive, producing 
" clinkers " which, as they tend to clog the body stove, 
help to produce such conditions as rheumatism, gout, 
sciatica, high blood pressure, etc. Under these condi- 
tions the kidneys, in their effort to eliminate the excess 
of nitrogen in the form of this incompletely oxidized 
ash, are overworked and often become diseased. Pro- 
fessor Quine, dean of the Medical Department of the 
University of Illinois, said : " Where one man dies of 
Bright's disease due to chronic alcoholism, fifty men die 
of Bright's disease due to an excess of protein food, 
especially meat." 

Meat as a Fuel 

The fires of the system must burn more vigorously in 
order to oxidize protein, and protein seems to stimulate 
this vigorous oxidation which, of itself, is a benefit. 
But when an excess of protein is taken, we may find 
the body fires in the condition expressed as follows by 
Dr, Hindhede, the great Danish dietetic authority: 



138 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

" Meat is a fierce burning fuel, but it seems to burn 
out the oven itself in the long run." 

A Physiological Economy 

Says Dr. Winfield Hall, professor of physiology, 
Northwestern University Medical School : " Body weight, 
health, strength, mental and physical vigor, and en- 
durance can be maintained with at least one half the 
protein food ordinarily consumed. A kind of physio- 
logical economy which, however, if once entered upon 
intelligently entails no hardship, but brings with it an 
actual betterment in health." 

Lest a few may still doubt as to the necessity for 
meat in the diet, we will give the following quotations 
in regard to experiments which have been conducted for 
the purpose of clearing up this very point: 

Physical Superiority 

" Comparative experiments on seventeen vegetarians 
and twenty-five meat eaters in the laboratory of the 
University of Brussels, have shown little difference in 
strength between the two classes, but a marked su- 
periority of the vegetarians in point of endurance. 
The average superiority was 53 per cent. The vege- 
tarians recuperated from fatigue more quickly than the 
meat eaters." — Irving Fisher. 

" Fourteen meat eaters and eight vegetarians started 
out on a seventy-mile walking match. All the vege- 
tarians reached the goal in splendid condition, the first 
covering the distance in fourteen and a quarter hours. 
An hour after the last vegetarian came in the first meat 
eater came in, and he was completely exhausted. He 
was also the last meat eater, for all the rest had dropped 
off after thirty miles of endeavor." — Idem. 

Dr. Graham Lusk says : " The popular idea of the 
necessity of meat for a laboring man may be epitomized 



FLESH FOOD 139 

in the statement : ' A strong man can eat more meat 
than a weak one, hence meat makes a man strong.' 
The proposition is evidently absurd." — Addixss given 
at the National Museum, Washingto7i, D. C, Aug. 30, 
1917. 

There are other reasons that might be given as to the 
advantage of a fleshless diet; much more could be 
written, but we lack time and space. The unpreju- 
diced individual may find much to persuade him that 
a well-balanced vegetarian diet has much to recom- 
mend it over that of one including meat. All that most 
people need is re-education as regards eating, and they 
will be happier and live longer. Many have tried veg- 
etarianism and failed — not because meat is essential, 
but because they have not understood food essentials 
and how they should be supplied. To the one who 
adopts the fleshless diet intelligently and with as rea- 
sonable a knowledge of how to feed himself as he would 
expect to have in regard to feeding his hens, or cows, 
were he raising them, will be added health, happiness, 
and length of days, with keener enjoyment in eating 
as well. 



" The fleshless diet is practical and rational. 
It should be accepted and commended by those 
who pursue the ideal of the formation and edu- 
cation of gentle, intelligent, artistic, and never- 
theless prolific, vigorous, and active races." — 
Gautier, in " Diet and Dietetics," p. 413. 



CHAPTER XVI 
CONDIMENTS 

A TWOFOLD purpose is accomplished in eating: First, 
the supplying of a physiological need; second, the en- 
joyment resulting from the partaking of pleasant food. 

Physiologic need being supplied, hunger disappears 
and appetite wanes, but humanity, so keen to surfeit 
itself with pleasure, has tended to tempt the fleeting 
appetite with foods so prepared that they may appeal 
to the palate even after the needs of the body are 
supplied. 

Taste Buds 

This having been for so long the tendency of man- 
kind, we find ourselves caring most for those things 
artificially and excessively seasoned, and so, often de- 
pend upon the seasoning rather than upon the natural 
flavor. In fact, few have taste buds ^ so sensitive that 
they are able fully to appreciate the exquisite flavors 
of the foods so wonderfully supplied by nature. 

It has been said that given any article capable of 
disintegration by the teeth, plus the various condi- 
ments and seasonings known to the modern chef, a dish 
fit for a king may be evolved. So with peppers and 
sauces, with frying and basting, our food is set before 
us in such a form that it is often impossible for us to 
tell of what we are eating. 

Eating for Drunkenness 

As " overflavoring leads to overeating," the custom 
of serving richly and highly seasoned food undoubtedly 



1 Sensory nerve endings on the tongue and palate that provide the sense of 
taste. 

140 



CONDIMENTS 141 

has much to do with the too prevalent dietetic sin of 
eating for drunkenness rather than strength. To re- 
educate our sense of taste that it might be normally 
sensitive to nature's exquisite flavors would, if we could 
but realize it, give us the keener enjoyment and pre- 
vent the suffering of penalties for the breaking of nat- 
ural law. 

A Protection 

The mucous lining of the digestive tract has two 
very important functions : First, to secrete the digestive 
fluids; second, to produce mucus, which is a natural 
lubricant and protects the delicate membrane from the 
mechanical friction of food itself or from any other 
irritation which might enter it from the outside world. 

Quantity Rather than Quality 

Condiments, such as mustard, pepper, vinegar, etc., 
by reason of their irritating effect, produce a congestion 
of the mucous membranes with which they come in 
contact. This temporarily increases the flow of diges- 
tive juice, but analysis has shown that the character 
of this fluid is quite different from that produced as 
the result of the presence of food unassociated with 
condiments. An analysis of the salivary secretions fol- 
lowing the introduction into the mouth of peppered 
food, shows an increase in the quantity but a lowering 
of the quality. Though there is more saliva, it con- 
tains less ptyalin (the active digestive principle) and 
more mucus. Consequently it is weak in digestive power. 

Just so in the stomach and intestine; and as the re- 
sult of repeated irritations of this kind, the little cells 
whose duty it is to secrete mucus, in their effort to 
protect against an ever-increasing irritation, secrete 
more and more mucus and to a greater or less degree 
crowd out the cells that normally secrete digestive 



142 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

juices. The mucous glands increase in number and 
size, the digestive glands grow fewer, the muco.us mem- 
brane thickens, becomes calloused, as it were, until, as 
the months and years go by, catarrh of the stomach 
(or bowel) often results, with a " corn " in the stom- 
ach instead of on the foot. The cause is the same : a 
long-continued abnormal irritation and an effort on the 
part of the epithelial wall to protect itself — one is 
analogous to the other, but the first is far more disas- 
trous and as difficult to cure. 

But the deleterious effect of condiments does not stop 
here: the irritants are absorbed, enter the portal sys- 
tem, produce chronic congestion of the liver, and, in 
their elimination through the kidneys, cause the same 
irritation in those organs, with consequent thickening 
and scar tissue formation. Especially objectionable are 
those articles hardened and preserved in brine and vin- 
egar as pickles. As the vinegar preserves the cucum- 
ber, so do these irritants toughen and pickle the tissues, 
and in addition to the irritation of the condiment is 
added the indigestibility of the toughened article of 
food. 

Vinegar Versus Lemon Juice 

Vinegar differs from lemon juice in that it is a free 
acid, being a solution of acetic acid. It is a decom- 
position product of alcohol, the result of two fermenta- 
tive processes, and because of its irritating properties, 
produces disease; while lemon juice is not a free acid, 
but an acid salt, not a decomposition product but is 
built up in nature's laboratory, full of vitamines, and 
a cure for scurvy and many cases of malnutrition. 

Some one has well said that " mustard produces the 
same effect upon the mside as it does on the outside of 
the stomach." 



CONDIMENTS 143 

Says Gautier : " Pepper irritates the digestive tract 
and the urinary tract." 

An Inflammatory Thirst 

Condiments create an inflammatory thirst which 
water cannot quench; alcohol is able to quench that 
thirst, and many a man who had " signed the pledge " 
has been sent back to the saloon, impelled by a thirst 
stimulated by highly seasoned foods served to him by 
the very ones, perhaps, who would, if they but knew 
how, save him from his overwhelming temptation, 

" Many mothers who deplore the intemperance which 
they see everywhere do not look deep enough to see 
the cause. They are daily preparing a variety of dishes 
which tempt the appetite and encourage overeating. 
The tables of our American people are generally pre- 
pared in a way to produce drunkards." — Ellen G. 
White. 

Disease or Health 

And a still greater " cloud of witnesses " might be 
raised up against these much-used articles. But enough 
has been presented to cause the thoughtful mother and 
housewife to hesitate before serving to her family foods 
so seasoned that, even though the immediate effect may 
seem pleasing and satisfactory, a foundation for dis- 
ease rather than for health is being laid, and, in some 
cases at least, a thirst created that may lead to a more 
grievous form of intemperance, with its train of mis- 
ery and woe. 

How Much Reserve? 

While catarrh of the stomach and bowels, hardening 
of the liver, and Bright's disease are not in every case 
caused by the use of condiments, nevertheless these 
things are factors in the production of these ever- 
increasing diseases, and shorten the working life of 



144 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

these organs. Again we would lay emphasis upon the 
fact that the reserve strength of a healthy organ. cannot 
be estimated. Just how much wear and tear and over- 
strain it may be able to endure we can never know 
until it has been tried out, and then it is often too late; 
the damage is already done. It is not one error that 
brings disease. Nature may resist and override the few 
occasional mistakes, but a combination of factors, a con- 
tinued irritation from various sources, is bound even in 
those most vigorous to bring all too soon the time of 
reckoning and the day when the strength of the organs 
no longer enables them to cope with the adverse con- 
ditions. And their ability to do even a normal amount 
of work is often so greatly impaired that the individual 
must walk, with a crutch, as it were, permanently 
maimed, his vitality lessened and his life shortened. 

An important part of the treatment of the diseases 
mentioned in this connection is the elimination from the 
diet of all irritating and highly seasoned foods. How 
much better to avoid those things which tend to produce 
disease and to let our regular dietary consist of the foods 
so bountifully supplied by nature, — the natural foods 
that will place upon our bodies no handicap in the 
processes of assimilation and elimination. 

Keen Enjoyment 

There are many delicious flavors in natural foods; the 
delightful nectar of fruits, the rich flavor of nuts, the 
wholesomeness of grains, the savor of vegetables and 
vegetable broths, — all of these were given us that we 
might derive the keenest enjoyment in the partaking of 
them. Careful and intelligent preparation will bring 
out delicacy of flavor that will prove delightful and 
more than satisfactory to all who will give the healthful 
way an unprejudiced trial. 



CHAPTER XVII 

UNNATURAL STIMULANTS 

Unnatural stimulants are any substances which ex- 
cite cell or tissue to undue activity by reason of their 
irritating presence. Condiments would be included un- 
der this head, but as they have already been discussed 
(see previous chapter), we shall devote the contents of 
this chapter to those stimulants which affect the nervous 
system. These are substances which excite the brain 
and nerves to abnormal activity by reason of their irri- 
tating presence in the blood. This undue stimulation 
is always followed by a compensatory period of depres- 
sion. This is more than a mere physiological sedation, 
for after repeated stimulation of this sort it takes more 
of the stimulant to produce the same amount of activity, 
until the nerves tend toward a worn-out state or a con- 
dition of exhaustion. 

Exhausted nerves are always irritable, and as the end 
result of a continued abnormal stimulation the nerves 
become weak, unsteady, and unable to do with poise and 
control the work of governing the muscular mechanism 
of the body. Under the head of such stimulants may 
be classed: Alcohol, tobacco, various drugs, many patent 
medicines, tea, coffee, cocoa, and meat juices. 

Alcohol, the great destroyer of the race, we need not 
discuss here. Tobacco, a menace to the physical and 
intellectual integrity of mankind, is not included in the 
realm of dietetics. The promiscuous use of drugs and 
patent medicines the people are being, to an extent, 
saved from by educational campaigns and the law. 
But coming more strictly in the province of our dis- 

10 145 



146 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

cussion, and often apparently innocent in their effects, 
are those in the remainder of the list — tea, coffee, 
cocoa, and meat juices. 

Tea: " That social cup which sharpens wit, brightens 
repartee, accelerates the flow of ideas, quickens the 
pulse, relieves one of headache and fatigue, and drives 
away dull care, is not the innocent benefactor of the race 
that it may seem to be. Instead, it is a deceiver which, 
commending itself for the present as a thing ' to be de- 
sired to make one wise ' and well, in the end robs one 
of a hundredfold more of the very things it seems to 
give." — D. D. Comstock, M. D., in Signs of the Times, 
July, 1917. 

Theine 

Tea contains two injurious extractives — a somewhat 
bitter alkaloidal poison called theine, and an astringent 
acid called tannin. A small cup of tea — four ounces 
— will contain from one-half to one grain of theine and 
a variable amount of tannic acid. The physiological 
effects of theine are principally those of stimulation. 
It is an excitant to the brain, quickens the pulse, and 
raises blood pressure, apparently relieving fatigue. 

" Used in excess, it [tea] exerts a harmful influence 
upon the nervous system, and in too strong a form in- 
jures the digestive tract and function." — Harrington 
and Richardson's " Practical Hygiene," edition 1911, 
V. 212. 

According to Bullard, " the abuse of tea as a beverage 
leads to ringing in the ears, tremor, nervousness, head- 
ache, neuralgia, and constipation." 

A Habit-Forming Drug 

Practically all medical authorities classify theine with 
the habit-forming drugs, such as morphine, cocaine, and 
alcohol. Who shall say, then, just what is excess or 



UNNATURAL STIMULANTS 147 

abuse? Experiments of the Pasteur Institute have 
shown that the long-continued use of even very small 
doses of poison ultimately produces decided injury to 
the organism, and some observers say that a given 
amount of poison taken in small doses over a long period 
of time does more harm than if taken in large doses at 
infrequent intervals, — just as there is greater damage 
inflicted by alcohol on the " tippler " than on the man 
who goes on a " spree " occasionally, but abstains at 
other times. 

The astringent action of the tannic acid of tea in its 
effect on the bowel is no small factor in the causation 
of the prevalent disease, constipation, and many a girl 
and young woman has laid the foundation for future ill 
health in her daily indulgence in a cup of tea. 

A Tragedy 

" With nerves all a-quiver with theine, and the bowels 
all puckered with tannin, what an amazing preparation 
for the battles of life ! It is but little short of a tragedy 
that a girl of a nervous and artistic temperament, with 
a natural tendency toward functional disease of the 
nervous system, should be encouraged or even allowed 
'by her parents to begin so young to cultivate a disorder 
toward which she has a natural bent, — nervous pros- 
tration and chronic constipation, — through the free use 
of tea and other nerve stimulants and sedatives." — 
D. D. Comstock, M. D. 

Caffeine 

Coffee: The stimulating principle of coffee is caffeine, 
which is practically the same as the theine of tea, and 
identical in its effects, and much that has been said of 
tea might also be said of coffee. Caffeine is a drug that 
is commonly used in headache powders or is prescribed 
by physicians when an emergency stimulant is needed. 



148 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

Coffee contains about 2 grains of caffeine to the cup. 
and thus its effect upon the nervous system is. even 
more marked than that of tea; and while tea, because 
of its astringent action, interferes with the normal 
peristalsis of the intestine, coffee interferes to a greater 
extent with stomach digestion. 

15,000,000 Pounds 

American people yearly consume about 15,000,000 
pounds of caffeine, which if given at one time would 
kill the whole world at one dose. This, if divided into 
doses, would equal more than 100,000,000,000 doses an- 
nually, or a little more than 3 grains daily for every 
man, woman, and child in the nation. Surely this can- 
not tend toward the physical uplift of the race, but 
must have its effect in the gradual increase of chronic 
disease. 

Quoting from Gautier : " Coffee, as everybody knows, 
produces a nervous excitement, which if abused may 
lead to insomnia, hallucinations, troubles of the circu- 
lation, and muscular enervation, to pericardial distress 
and to dyspnea. One can become caffeic, just as one 
can become alcoholic or a morphia maniac." 

And again from Harrington and Richardson's " Prac- 
tical Hygiene," edition 1911, page 214: "Taken in ex- 
cessive quantities, it [coffee] causes palpitation and in- 
termittence, besides general nervousness and derange- 
ment of digestion. It has a marked inhibitory influence 
on gastric digestion, and is more oppressive to the 
stomach than tea, and, hence, should be used with cau- 
tion by dyspeptics." 

For That Headache 

The headache that one has when deprived of his 
morning coffee or his daily portion of tea, is one of the 
greatest evidences that the nervous system has learned 



UNNATURAL STIMULANTS 149 

to depend upon the artificial stimulation, and that, sooner 
or later, if the habit is continued, nature will reach the 
place where she can no longer cope with the situation, 
and the collapse will come. 

" There can be no doubt that the human race would 
be better off if these beverages had never been dis- 
covered; and many cases of nervousness, dyspepsia, and 
constipation would be either greatly helped or entirely 
relieved if these beverages were banished from our 
tables." — "The Science of Living," Sadler, p. 162. 

Theobromine 

Cocoa: Many giving up tea and coffee feel that they 
can indulge themselves freely in cocoa, but here again 
a mistake is made; for even in the use of this delightful 
beverage, care and moderation should be exercised. It 
contains the active principle theobromine, which is re- 
lated to caffeine, though not so deleterious in its effects, 
it not having the untoward effect on the cerebral centers 
and the heart that does the active principle of either 
coffee or tea. However, it is a drug, its drug action 
affecting principally the kidneys and urinary tract. A 
cup of cocoa contains about one half as much of its 
active principle as does tea or coffee, and the theobro- 
mine may be considered one half as injurious in its 
effects as caffeine. 

Cocoa has an advantage over tea and coffee. Being 
rich in fat and protein, it has rather a high food value. 
Chocolate and cocoa are the same, except that in cocoa 
the fat has been largely removed. This fat is placed 
on the market as cocoa butter. 

So while not so much can be said against cocoa as 
can be said against tea and coffee, and it may at 
times serve a useful purpose as food, yet it should be 
used only with care and moderation. Especially should 



150 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

children be kept from the use of cocoa, it being particu- 
larly deleterious to them because of its action on the 
urinary tract. 

Little Foxes 

Truly it is " the little foxes that spoil the vines," and 
our safety and greatest efficiency lie in a selection of 
food which will yield the highest results healthwise, 
and in the avoiding of those things which are question- 
able in their effects. 

Meat Extractives: The end products of protein me- 
tabolism already described are closely related to caffeine ; 
hence the stimulating effect of meat and meat broths, 
which, when taken, add these extractives in excess to 
those already formed normally in the tissues, and the 
sensation of weakness when they are omitted from the 
dietary by one accustomed to having them. 

A Devitalizing Effect 

The feeling of strength obtained from meat broths is 
thus not a true tonic, but an unnatural stimulant, which 
if freely indulged in cannot but have in the end a de- 
vitalizing effect upon the general nervous system. 

Eating for health means eliminating from one's diet 
those things which tend to make for disease and race 
decadence, and subsisting on those foods so abundant 
that are full of life and health properties. The more 
we are able to reach this ideal the nearer does the body 
approach the normal state, which means not only ful- 
ness of physical but of intellectual strength. 

" Blessed art thou, land, tvhen . . . thy 
'princes eat in due season, for strength, and not 
for drunkenness." — Bible. 



CHAPTER XVIII 
DESSERTS 

Insult Added to Injury 

This most pleasing part of our meal comes to us, 
usually, when hunger is satisfied and the needs of the 
body have been supplied by that part which has gone 
before. Thus the digestive powers are overtaxed, t^ 
body is burdened by an excess of food, and actual harm 
is often done, though the dish might of itself be whole- 
some. However, desserts are frequently not wholesome, 
and then the food which is imposed upon an already 
more than satisfied stomach is of such a quality that in- 
sult is added to injury. 

The so-called best chef is the one who can make a 
dessert so tempting that it will appeal to the palate of 
one who is already surfeited with food, and again we 
are reminded of the frequency with which the question 
of supplying physiological need is lost sight of in the 
desire to cater to the sense appeal. When one is truly 
hungry, it is not the dessert that satisfies, but the home- 
lier part of the meal, and the tendency is to wait until 
the appetite wanes before partaking of that which is 
often of the most concentrated food value. 

The best desserts are light, easily digested, and of a 
minimum caloric value. They must not be of such con- 
centration that they interfere with the proper food bal- 
ance. If the first part of the meal is low in calories and 
it is planned that the dessert supply a large part of the 
food value, making with the remainder of the food 
served a proper balance, a more concentrated dessert 
may be served, e. g., the following: 



152 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

Protein Calories Total Calories 

Cottage cheese, 2 ounces 40 75 

Spinach, 2 heaping tablespoons ... 8 25 

Apple pie, one sixth of a pie 16 350 

Walnuts (6) 20 200 

Glass of milk 28 150 



112 800 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 14. 

The Proper Food Balance Maintained 

Note the ample total food units, and the protein — 
half the daily needs, in spite of the fact that the pie 
contains only 41^ per cent protein. The low protein of 
the pie is made up by the high protein content of the 
other food. While pie may not be considered the most 
wholesome of desserts and would better be served only 
occasionally, yet much of its unhealthfulness is avoided 
when it is given its rightful place in the meal. The 
pie and nuts, making a dessert of 550 calories, would 
undoubtedly be a great imposition upon a digestive tract 
after the ordinary dinner of three or four courses. This 
would in reality be serving a second full meal when the 
digestive organs already have all they can do. 

Usually the dessert of 150 food units or less is the 
best, and many very delightful dishes of this kind can 
be prepared. (See recipes. Chapter XXXI.) 

A Disadvantage 

One great disadvantage in desserts is the large 
amount of fat and sugar of which they are usually 
made. If care is not taken, this will result in a meal 
overbalanced as regards its carbohydrate and fat con- 
tent, at the same time irritating because of its con- 
centrated sweet and overheated fat, and more or less 



DESSERTS 153 

indigestible, especially If added to an already overloaded 
stomach. 

How to Combine 

Desserts should be made of food substances in proper 
combination. For instance, combinations of milk and 
sugar are not the most wholesome, and greatly increase 
a tendency to gastric fermentation. (See recipes, Chap- 
ter XXXI, for desserts without the milk and sugar com- 
bination.) The combination of fruits and vegetables is 
not considered ideal, and if a fruit dessert is served after 
a hearty vegetable meal, it should preferably be one in 
which the cellulose of the fruit has been largely re- 
moved. 

Candy 

• The time for candy is at the end of the meal, at which 
time it may be served with the dessert. When it takes 
its place as a part of the meal, its food value being 
reckoned with the daily ration, one great objection to 
its use is removed. The appetite already satisfied, the 
tendency to overeat of it is greatly lessened, and it does 
not prove so irritating to the mucous membrane when 
not taken on an empty stomach. However, candy eaten 
in excess even at this time often results in marked irri- 
tation of the throat and increased catarrhal conditions. 

Nuts 

Nuts are sometimes served with the dessert, and much 
blame is often attached to this most valuable article of 
food because it so often plays a part in the overeating 
frequently indulged in during this last most delightful 
course. The high caloric value of nuts must be kept in 
mind and they should be eaten accordingly. Nuts served 
with a simple fruit dessert make a most satisfactory 
combination in which the food concentration need not 
be too great. Nuts often cause distress because they 



154 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

are improperly masticated. If thoroughly chewed and 
eaten moderately, as all concentrated foods should be; 
if eaten at the proper time and place and considered a 
food with actual food value instead of something merely 
to please the palate, this pleasing as well as nourishing 
food may be eaten by nearly every one with no unsatis- 
factory results. 

Ice Cream 

Ice cream, so often served, should be mentioned, and 
the same rules apply to this as to all others. It must be 
eaten with due regard for what has preceded it. Be- 
cause of its combination and concentration, it cannot 
be considered as wholly without objection, but if eaten 
in moderation and slowly so that large ice-cold masses 
are not thrown upon the stomach at once, thus too 
quickly lowering the temperature below that at which 
digestion can be carried on, it need not be condemned. 
As a dessert it is much to be preferred to the rich 
puddings and pastries so often served. A good time for 
ice cream is at lunch when little else is taken. A plain 
cracker eaten with ice cream makes a more rational 
combination than the conventional cake. Sometimes an 
invalid can take ice cream better than anything else. 
At these times it is usually served by itself and sup- 
plies needed nourishment. Melted before it reaches the 
stomach, it is little more than a liquid and is usually 
well taken care of. 

Cakes 

Rich cakes and pastries are better omitted. Simple 
cakes, made preferably without baking powder (see 
recipe 102), may be served occasionally, but as a usual 
thing, the fewer of these sweets supplied the family 
table the better. And when for economy's sake, or lack 
of time, the dessert is forgotten or omitted, none need 
feel that the body will suffer because of the omission. 



CHAPTER XIX 
MEAT SUBSTITUTES AND SUGGESTIVE MENUS 

Upon meat and the savors derived from it, depend- 
ence has always been placed to make food palatable 
and appetizing. 

With meats taken from us, free fats in disfavor, 
condiments disallowed, what can we do in the way of 
preparing dishes that will not only supply the body 
needs, but will also meet the demands of often wrongly 
educated palates? Surely we should feel quite helpless 
and find the problem very difficult to solve. However, 
a practical study may enable us to " find a way." 

Threefold 

In preparing meat substitutes we must think of, (1) 
broths, (2) meat dishes, and (3) gravies. These foods 
must be appetizing. The broths should have something 
of the same savory appeal to the palate as have the 
meat juices; the meat dishes must supply the neces- 
sary amount of tissue-building element; and the gravies, 
while palatable, must be free from excess of grease, 
especially superheated fats. 

A Natural Tonic 

1. Broths and Soups. — Vegetables, properly prepared, 
yield the most delicious and appetizing flavors. In fact, 
vegetable bouillon may be so like the ordinary meat 
broth in its savor that many can scarcely be per- 
suaded of the absence of all meat extract in its prepa- 
ration. Moreover, such vegetable broths are rich in 
the mineral salts and vitamines so essential. For the 
invalid they will have all the advantages of an appe- 

155 



156 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

tizer and tonic without the contamination of animal 
wastes and purine stimulation. 

The vegetables, having been cut up without paring, 
should be put to cook in cold, unsalted water and al- 
lowed to simmer two or three hours. In this way the 
mineral matter, vitamines, and much of the protein 
pass into the broth, the temperature probably not 
greatly affecting the vitamines. (See page 107.) In 
boiling vigorously for that length of time a greater 
risk is run of destroying the vital elements. 

Soup Stock 

The most important part of the nourishment being 
near the skin, a most nutritious vegetable broth can be 
made by using simply the parings of potatoes and other 
vegetables. (See recipe 24.) These, having been thor- 
oughly cleansed, may be used to excellent advantage in 
the preparation of broths and soup stock. No fat 
should be added, but after straining or pressing through 
a colander, seasoning in the way of salt, celery salt, a 
bay leaf, or a pinch of thyme, may be added. Any 
combination of vegetables may be used with good re- 
sults, and the water from any vegetable may be added 
to these, to make a delicious vegetable broth, or it may 
be used by itself. For example, instead of throwing 
away cauliflower water, add it to the soup or broth 
already made, or serve it by itself, hot and salted to 
taste, in bouillon cups. It will make a pleasing addi- 
tion to the meal. 

Tea or Leaves, Which? 

Likewise may be used the water from string beans, 
asparagus, and from even cabbage or beets. Some of 
these may need to be combined in various ways to in- 
sure a good flavor, but always should be used. What 
tea lover would eat the tea leaves and throw the tea 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 157 

down the sink? Potato water, bean broth, alone or 
together, seasoned by cooking with them a bit of celery, 
onion, and tomato, give a flavor which may rival that 
of a consomme. The ingenuity of the housewife makes 
possible any number of the most savory and delightful 
combinations. 

Vegex, also herbex, is a factory-prepared vegetable 
extract which makes, when added to boiling water, a 
very good bouillon comparable to that prepared from 
bouillon cubes. (See recipe 39.) 

A very meaty flavor may be given vegetable soups 
and purees by using as a basis a stock prepared as in 
recipe 25. 

An Essential 

2. Substitute Meat Dishes. — The essential for these 
dishes as meat substitutes is, first, that they contain a 
relatively high proportion of protein. In this way only 
can they replace flesh food, which usually contains 30 
per cent or more of the nitrogenous element. Often 
dishes are served as meat substitutes which contain a 
very small percentage of protein, and are, in reality, 
starchy rather than nitrogenous foods. Something 
more than the taste must be considered if we are 
rightly to supply the body demand. However, the fla- 
vor cannot be ignored, and the dish, to be a success, 
must satisfy the palate as well. For foods that, be- 
cause of their large protein content, are good meat 
substitutes, see table. Chapter VI. 

For Breakfast 

For at least two of the daily meals, a protein dish 
should be planned. For breakfast it may be an egg, 
cottage cheese, cottage cheese omelet, milk toast, gluten 
mush or gruel, or any of the whole grains, as oatmeal, 
whole or cracked wheat, whole rice, pearled barley. 



158 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

These grains contain in themselves 15 per cent or more 
protein. When eaten with milk, the protein may reach 
18 per cent. The addition of sugar is a mistake for 
two reasons: First, because sugar and milk are not a 
good combination (see Chapter XX) ; and second, be- 
cause the extra food units of sugar greatly disturb the 
protein balance. Cream may be used if other fats in 
the meal are limited, but as a protein dish the cereal 
has its greatest advantage when eaten with whole milk. 

No better change can be made in the breakfast plan 
than a cup of hot milk in place of the time-honored 
cup of coffee. The proverbial breakfast mush may be 
changed from time to time to a gruel (see recipes 19 
and 20), to shredded wheat, or to corn flakes. Baked 
potato, with an accompanying egg, may well be served 
at breakfast time, with perhaps a glass of milk. The 
potato in this case should take the place of breakfast 
cereal unless in the form of zwieback or breakfast 
gems. Puree of peas on toast, asparagus tips, or other 
easily digested vegetable is often good if one does not 
have dinner until late in the day. 

Fresh fruit should form a part of every breakfast, 
and, as mentioned elsewhere, should be eaten first. In 
this way the full benefit of the fruit is obtained by the 
system, and there is less danger of trouble due to the 
combination. Stewed fruits may be used, as desired, 
and may be taken during or at the end of the meal. 
But they should never be allowed, unless of necessity, 
to take the place of fresh fruit. A fruit salad for 
breakfast makes a pleasant variation. (See recipe 74.) 
Nuts are a good addition to the breakfast menu, but 
supply fat rather than a great deal of protein. The 
peanut and almond are higher in protein than other nuts. 

As five, or better six, hours should elapse between 
meals, the two-meal-a-day plan would prove a benefit to 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 159 

many, with, perhaps, a third fruit meah The ideal 
plan, were it possible, would be a breakfast at nine 
and dinner at three or four. This is so rarely possible 
that one of two or three other plans must be substi- 
tuted. Many find the no-breakfast plan a good one (or 
a breakfast of fruit), with an early lunch and an eve- 
ning dinner. Others will do well with a substantial 
breakfast, a fruit lunch, and a heavier meal later in 
the day. Often the best that can be done is breakfast 
between seven and eight, lunch between twelve and 
one, and dinner about six. 

For Lunch 

In this case the lunch should be light, only of fruit 
or other easily digested food, as perhaps soup, with 
zwieback or a sandwich. The dinner should then be 
eaten as soon after five as possible. If it is possible to 
serve dinner in the middle of the day, preferably about 
one, then the evening meal should be light and easy 
to digest. A fruit meal in the evening is very good, with 
perhaps zwieback, dextrinized cereal, or vegetable soup. 

If one's protein for the other meals of the day has 
been low, he may well have a hot milk toast, a cream 
vegetable soup, an egg, or a glass of milk or of butter- 
milk. However, a simple fruit supper is the one that 
will insure the best night's rest and the sweetest taste 
in the morning. Few, except those who are working 
vigorously with their muscles, can properly digest three 
hearty meals a day. 

Many in trying to do this, especially those in seden- 
tary work, find their systems becoming clogged, with 
headache, loss of appetite, and other symptoms of stag- 
nant conditions in the digestive tract and tissues. Un- 
fortunately, these people often do not recognize the 
cause of the trouble. 



160 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

For Dinner 

The dinner, whether served at midday or evening, 
should be very carefully planned. It is well to decide 
first upon the form in which the protein is to be sup- 
plied, then to select the other foods accordingly. If 
legumes, such as peas, beans, or lentils, are to be served, 
or cottage cheese, either as a salad or a meat dish, it 
may not be necessary to plan a special meat substitute. 
However, it is often very pleasing to serve a dish which 
will seem more nearly to take the place of meat, such 
as in recipes 41 to 58. These may be served with 
sauces or gravies which will add greatly to the meaty 
flavor. 

A soup, a raw vegetable salad, one or both, may well 
form a part of every dinner. If these are served with 
a good protein dish, one cooked vegetable may be quite 
sufficient, although a second may be added if desired. 
If there is no specially prepared salad, something raw 
should be served, if only celery or lettuce. 

Potatoes need not always be included. It may be 
well on alternate days to serve one or two other vege- 
tables and omit the potato. Potato, while a valuable 
food, should never be allowed to take the place of green 
or leafy vegetables. If squash or carrots are served, 
the second vegetable would better be spinach, string 
beans, green peas, etc., rather than potato. Many are 
content to limit the vegetable part of their daily ration 
to potato, with only exceptional variation. This is a 
mistake. 

Dessert is by no means always necessary, but if 
served, should be simple. If the dessert is heavy and 
concentrated as, e. g., pie, the rest of the meal should 
be light. (See Chapter XVIII.) 

The planning of the dinner should depend to a large 
extent upon whether those who eat of it are farmers, 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 161 

carpenters, and draymen, or clerks, stenographers, and 
professional people. Those who work hard at muscular 
labor can digest food in kind and amount that the 
brain worker could never take care of. The needs of 
the two, especially as to the amount of energy food 
required, are very different. 

In planning every dinner, especially for those of the 
sedentary class, it will be well to remember that the 
protein portion should average 13 to 15 per cent, or 
more of the total number of calories, unless the break- 
fast has been high in protein. This will make up for 
those meals in which fruit and other foods low in pro- 
tein constitute a large part. 

As has been said before, both classes need about the 
same amount of protein, but the total calories needed 
by the first class may in some cases be twice as much 
as needed by the second. The appetite of the first is 
often a safe guide, but not so with the second. 

3. Gravies. — We cannot leave the question of meat 
substitutes without discussing the question of gravies, 
those questionable meat accessories so often used to 
cover up dishes of uncertain source and many times 
depended upon to insure an appetizing flavor. 

Unhygienic Gravies 

Many would be quite willing to eliminate flesh food 
from their diet were it possible still to have the rich 
savory gravies usually served with meat. Vegetarians, 
in their effort to supply something that will take the 
place of these sauces, often serve gravies which are any- 
thing but hygienic because of their excess of grease 
and superheated fat. These have little advantage over 
meat gravies in their effect upon the health, and may 
even make a meal more unhealthful than one in which 
meat is served. 
11 



162 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

However, it is very possible to make these desired 
sauces from vegetable broths and extracts, and have 
them full of important nutritional elements, health- 
giving as well as appetizing. A very enjoyable and 
healthful dressing for vegetables and entrees may be 
prepared by using a vegetable broth as a basis. Potato 
water, thickened with flour, and milk or cream added, 
makes a very delicious milk gravy. In the same way 
the water from boiled onions, string beans, and other 
vegetables may be thickened to make cream sauces of 
various kinds. 

In making potato and onion soup stock according to 
recipe 25, before putting through a colander, pour or 
strain off a pint or more of the rich brown liquor. Add 
a little strained tomato to this, just enough to give it a 
little flavor, not enough to give a tomato color, unless 
a tomato sauce is desired. Brown flour in the oven or 
over the flame in a dry pan, luithout oil, and use this 
flour for thickening. Salt to taste and, if desired, sea- 
son with celery salt, thyme, or sage. The result will 
be a brown gravy surprisingly satisfactory as to flavor, 
and wholesome withal. No fat need be added to this 
gravy. Milk or cream may be added; but if so, it will 
be well to omit the tomato. By adding more tomato a 
delicious tomato sauce may be made. For other reci- 
pes, see Chapter XXXI. 

There are many ways in which the ingenious house- 
wife can apply the above suggestions, but for those 
who may wish a little more assistance in the practical 
working out of these daily problems, we append a few 
suggestive menus, which, after the housewife has gotten 
well on in the way of preparing well-balanced and 
wholesome meals for her family, she may in many 
ways vary and improve. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 



163 



Sample Breakfast Menus 

Protein 
No. 1 Calories 

Fruit Salad (see pages 211, 212) 13 

Oatmeal 14 

Milk (8 oz.) 32 

Zwieback 14 

Dates (4) 3 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 12. 

76 

Protein 
No. 2 Calories 

Orange Juice (7 oz.) 7 

Whole-wheat Gems (2) 30 

Butter 

Soft Egg 25 

Prunes (4) 3 

Almonds (6) 15 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 13, 

80 

Protein 
No. 3 Calories 

Fruit Salad 13 

Cracked Wheat and Milk 25 

Whole-wheat Gems 30 

Butter (thin pat) 

Cereal Coffee (teaspoon sugar, 1 oz. evap. milk) .. 8 
Almonds (4 or more) 8 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 12. ■ 

4 84 

Protein 
No. 4 Calories 

Cantaloupe 5 

Omelet 27 

Baked Potato 10 

Corn Bread 18 

Butter (2 thin pats) 

Hot Milk (6 oz.) 27 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 13. • 

87 

Protein 
No. 5 Calories 

Grapefruit (1) with teaspoon honey 7 

Whole or Brown Rice 25 

Fruit Toast 15 



Total 
Calories 

181 

75 

160 

100 

100 

€16 

Total 
Calories 

100 
192 

50 

75 
100 
100 

617 

Total 
Calories 

181 
164 
192 

50 

65 

60 

712 

Total 
Calories 

75 

90 

100 

150 

100 

140 

655 

Total 
Calories 

125 
161 
158 



164 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 



Protose Loaf 45 100 

Whole-wheat Sticks (3) 10 • 100 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 15. 

102 644 

Protein Total 

No. 6 Calories Calories 

Watermelon 5 80 

Scrambled Eggs (equivalent to 2 eggs) 50 150 

Nut Tomato Toast 34 205 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 20. 

89 435 

Here is illustrated a low total with high protein. 

Protein Total 

No. 7 Calories Calories 

Orange Juice (7 oz.) 7 100 

Corn Flakes with Milk 16 100 

Baked Apple 2 125 

Cottage Cheese Omelet 62 170 

Graham Zwieback (2) 26 200 

Butter (thin pat) 50 

Cereal Coffee with Evaporated Milk and Sugar ... 8 65 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 14. ■ 

121 810 

Protein Total 

No. 8 Calories Calories 

Fruit (large apple or orange) 6 100 

Oat Gruel 23 125 

Puree of Peas on Toast 38 200 

Graham Puffs (2) 29 170 

Butter (thin pat) 50 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 14.5. • ■ 

96 645 

Protein Total 

No. 9 Calories Calories 

Fruit'salad 20 300 

Milk Toast 33 200 

Poached Egg 25 75 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 14. ■ 

78 575 

Butter is allowed in the above menus, but it should 
ever be remembered that its use may well be mini- 
mized and that many times it may be dispensed with 
entirely, to advantage, without lessening the palatabil- 
ity of the meal. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 165 

Other more simple breakfasts may be as follows : 

Protein Total 

No. 10 Calories Calories 

Orange Juice (7 oz.) 7 100 

Poached Egg on Toast 39 200 

Dates (6) 4 150 

Per cent of protein for meal, 11. • 

50 450 

The calories for the poached egg on toast include 25 
calories of butter. 

Protein Total 

No. 11 Calories Calories 

Whole Grapefruit with Honey 7 150 

Shredded Wheat with Milk 32 200 

English Walnuts (3) 10 100 

Per cent of protein for meal, 11. 

49 450 

Protein Total 

No. 12 Calories Calories 

Fruit ' Salad 13 181 

Milk Toast 34 200 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 12.5. 

47 381 

Graham or whole-wheat zwieback should be used for 
the toast. 

Protein Total 

No. 13 Calories Calories 

Grapefruit with Honey 7 150 

Browned Rice with Milk 29 200 

Cream Rolls or Fruit Crackers (3) 15 126 

Per cent of protein for meal, 11. 

51 476 

With rather a low per cent of protein for breakfast, 

the dinner must be planned so as to furnish a larger 
per cent. 

Sample Dinner Menus 

Protein Total 

No. 1 Calories Calories 

Cream of Pea Soup 28 137 

Zwieback 14 100 

Cottage Cheese Omelet 62 170 

Baked Potato 13 125 

Butter 50 



166 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

Cauliflower 7 13 

Grated Carrots 4 20 ^ 

Cocoanut Drop Cakes 14 158 

Orange Juice (7 oz.) 7 100 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 17. 

149 873 

Prepare soup, omelet, and drop cakes according to 
recipes 33, 48, and 106. Leave the soup thick enough 
so that any water from the cauliflower may be added. 
Make zwieback from Graham or whole-wheat bread. 
Use butter very moderately. Bake the cottage cheese 
omelet and potatoes together, in a low oven. The ome- 
let can stay in until the potatoes are ready to serve. 
Do not remove the omelet from the oven until ready to 
serve; then serve at once. Add to the omelet the yolks 
of the eggs used in making the drop cakes. For each 
individual salad, place in a lettuce leaf two or three 
tablespoonfuls of grated carrots to which a dressing of 
lemon juice and salt has been added. Dilute the orange 
juice very little, if at all; add no sugar unless oranges 
are very sour; in this case it will be better to dilute the 
orange juice with a sweeter fruit juice, as grape juice, 
bottled pineapple juice, or the juice of stewed fruit. 

Protein Total 

No. 2 Calories Calories 

Cream of Celery Soup 21 140 

Zwieback 14 100 

Shredded Lettuce with Cream Dressing 10 55 

Braised Protose 49 110' 

Mashed Potato with Brown Sauce 21 155 

Asparagus Tips 8 25 

Stuffed Dates (4) 8 136 

Grape Juice (7 oz.) 2 100 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 16. — — ■ — — 

loo O^l 

Prepare soup and salad according to recipes 34 and 
78 (omitting the tomatoes). Scrub the potatoes thor- 
oughly before paring, and add potato skins to the soup 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 167 

stock. To make the brown sauce, use a pint of the 
broth from the soup stock, pouring it off the top be- 
fore the soup stock is put through the colander. To 
this brown liquid add a cup of tomato juice, thicken 
with flour which has been browned in a dry pan, and 
salt to taste. Cook the tough asparagus ends, and use 
this water for cooking the asparagus tips. Add any 
water left from the asparagus to the soup stock. 

Protein Total 

No. 3 Calories Calories 

Cream of Lima Bean Soup 31 146 

Zwieback (2) 28 200 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad 7 117 

Carrot and Nut Loaf with Cream Sauce 22 147 

Mashed Turnips 2 7 

Prune Whip 11 123 

Almonds (6) 15 100 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 14. 

116 840 

Prepare soup, salad, and carrot and nut loaf accord- 
ing to recipes 33, 78, and 51. The egg yolks left from 
the prune whip may be beaten and added to the soup, 
to cream salad dressing, or to the carrot and nut loaf. 

Protein Total 

No. 4 Calories Calories 

Cream of Tomato Soup 19 112 

Zwieback 14 100 

Shredded Cabbage with Cream Dressing 10 65 

Cottage Cheese with Cream 40 200 

Stuffed Potato 15 150 

String Beans 6 30 

Nuts and Raisins 12 150 

Per cent of protein for the meal, liVs. 

116 807 

Prepare cream of tomato soup, salad, and stuffed 
potatoes according to recipes 27, 79, and 61. Add the 
water from the string beans to the soup. Serve 2 
tablespoons cottage cheese in individual dishes and 
cover with cream or top milk. 



168 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

Protein Total 

No. 5 Calories Calories 

Puree of Green Peas with Tomato Sauce 33 152 

Spinach with Egg 20 62 

Boiled Potatoes 10 100 

Buttermilk (7 oz.) 28 75 

Almonds (6) 15 100 

Apple Pie 16 350 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 15. 

122 839 

Prepare puree of peas and sauce according to recipes 
56 and 69. Serve spinach with sliced hard-boiled eggs, 
and lemon if desired. Before paring the potatoes, scrub 
them thoroughly and make a broth from the skins to 
add to the tomato sauce. The pie is allowed because 
of the simplicity of the meal and its otherwise high 
protein content. 

Protein Total 

No. 6 Calories Calories 

Browned Potatoes 19 129 

Protose Steak or Bean Croquettes 54 192 

Baked Carrots 9 54 

Combination Salad with Lemon Dressing 7 35 

Grape Juice — Sweet Wafers 6 200 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 151/2- — 77 ~Z77 

95 610 

Follow recipes in Chapter XXXI. The skins of the 
potatoes should be boiled and the broth added to the 
sauce for the browned potatoes. 

Protein Total 

jsjo. 7 Calories Calories 

Cream of Corn Soup 18 135 

Fresh Tomatoes (or Stewed) 7 33 

Baby Limas 24 115 

Baked Hubbard Squash 3 43 

Milk (7 oz.) 28 140 

Caramel Pudding 5 148 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 14. — — • — — 

80 d14 

Prepare soup and pudding according to recipes 30 
and 107. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 169 

Protein Total 

No. 8 Calories Calories 

Cream of Spinach Soup 21 93 

Zwieback (1) 14 100 

Cottage Cheese and Nut Roast with Cream Sauce 40 200 

Baked Sweet Potatoes 12 206 

Celery (3 stalks) 5 20 

Olives (5) 5 100 

Fruit Salad 11 156 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 12 V,. 

108 875 

For soup, roast, and salad, use recipes 35, 49, and 74. 

• Protein Total 

No. 9 Calories Calories 

Vegetable Bouillon 24 93 

Zwieback (1) 14 100 

Carrot and Nut Salad 11 61 

Eggplant Croquettes 18 110 

Green Peas 24 95 

Banana Snow 15 91 

Cereal Coffee with Evaporated Milk and Sugar ... 8 65 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 18. • 

114 615 

For vegetable bouillon, use recipe 37, or the water 
from any cooked vegetable. Prepare croquettes and 
banana snow according to recipes 52 and 98. To make 
each individual salad, grate an average carrot and add to 
it two or three nuts chopped. Serve on a lettuce leaf 
with lemon dressing. 



It can be seen readily from the above menus that 
the per cent of protein can be very easily varied. In 
this way the protein balance may be adjusted accord- 
ing to the needs of the individual and to circumstances. 
With a breakfast and dinner both high in protein, the 
third meal need contain little, if any, as when only 
fruit is taken. Even with the low total of 600 calories, 
as in No. 9, it is possible to so adjust the protein bal- 
ance that the person who needs only a low total may 



170 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

still get his 100 or more of protein for the meal. The 
servings, of course, may be increased, and the value 
easily calculated. 

Meats are so commonly used in the making of sand- 
wiches, and sandwiches are often so pleasing and prac- 
tical a means of serving food for lunches, picnics, etc., 
that this chapter would hardly seem complete without 
a few suggestions as to satisfactory meatless sandwich 
filling. 

There is no reason why the dark breads as well as 
white should not be used for sandwiches. The slices 
should be cut thin and the hard upper crust may be 
removed, care being taken that it is not wasted, but 
saved to make zwieback strips, croutons, or zwieback 
crumbs. The bread may or may not be buttered, de- 
pending upon the nature of the filling. As a general 
thing, fillings that supply protein are rather better 
than those that furnish a preponderance of sweet, un- 
less the protein has been well supplied in some other 
way. Usually an occasion for sandwiches means plenty 
of sweets in some other form, as cake, ice cream, etc. 

Egg, cottage cheese, and peanut butter sandwiches 
are always good, and may be a help in supplying the 
protein part of the child's school lunch. Among other 
satisfactory fillings are the following: 

1. Nut Tomato Sandwich 

Emulsify peanut butter with strained tomato, 
salt slightly. Use the same as plain peanut 
butter. 

2. Cottage Cheese Tomato Sandwich 

Add to cottage cheese enough strained tomato 
to make it the proper consistency. Mix well. 
Use with a lettuce leaf for sandwich filling. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 171 

3. Carrot Cottage Cheese Sandwich 

Make filling according to recipe 77. 

4. Bean Sandwich 

Press beans through a colander, add salt and 
a little lemon juice. Use for sandwich filling. 

5. Lentil Sandwich 

Prepare as No. 4. 

6. Green Pea Sandwich 

To pea puree add a little evaporated milk, salt, 
and use as filling. 

7. Protose Sandwich 

Remove protose from can, mash, add lemon 
juice and salt, mix well, and use. 

8. Protose and Nuttolene Sandwich 

Prepare as in No. 7, using equal parts of pro- 
tose and nuttolene. 

9. Lettuce Sandwich 

Spread buttered bread with mayonnaise, and use 
lettuce leaf for filling. 

10. Celery Sandwich 

Steam bread, then butter, roll around a celery 
stalk, and tie the roll with baby ribbon. Serve 
as soon as possible. 

11. Tomato Sandwich 

Spread buttered bread with mayonnaise, and use 
large slice of tomato for filling. 

12. Salad Sandwich 

Chop lettuce, tomato, radishes, celery, carrots, 
or any other raw vegetable, all together, mix 
with mayonnaise, and use for filling. 



CHAPTER XX 
COMBINATIONS 

The Solution 

The question of proper and hygienic combinations of 
food is one which greatly exercises the mind of many 
who find it necessary to consider their diet from a 
health viewpoint. Yet we believe that those who have 
carefully followed us in our discussion of the previous 
chapters can readily see that when the daily ration is 
properly balanced, and one is careful not to overeat, 
the problem of food combination is to a great extent 
solved. And again we are reminded of the beauty and 
freedom of eating, as well as living, by principle 
rather than merely by rule. However, there are a few 
points in this connection which perhaps should be 
spoken of in addition to those already discussed. 

Small Variety 

First, and perhaps most important of all, is this : the 
menu having been properly balanced, it is much better 
to serve a small variety at one meal. A large variety 
often complicates the digestive processes and tends to 
overeating. Different kinds of digestive juices are 
called forth by different foods. If the variety is too 
great, the stomach may find it difficult or impossible to 
manufacture so many kinds of gastric juice at the same 
time, and thus the digestive process be hindered. 

Often when some particular food disagrees, it can be 
eaten and properly digested if taken unmixed with 
other foods. This is sometimes true in cases where 
fruit is not well taken. Although fruit should form a 
part of the dietary of every one, yet there are those 

172 



COMBINATIONS 173 

who seem unable to take it in any form, particularly if 
raw, or very acid. In nearly every case if these persons 
would devote one meal to the eating of fruit and noth- 
ing else, they would find themselves able to eat it with- 
out trouble, and they would often soon find it possible 
to add one other simple food to the fruit meal, such as 
oven toast or cereal in some form. 

Fruit and Vegetables 

The combination of fruit and vegetable is not an 
ideal one. Fruit, being a predigested food, should pass 
from the stomach very soon after entering it. Vegeta- 
bles often require rather a prolonged stomach digestion 
because of the protein which they contain. The cellu- 
lose of either fruit or vegetable is usually all the cellu- 
lose the stomach should be called upon to handle at 
one time, unless, of course, either is in very small 
amounts. The fruit cellulose in addition to that con- 
tained in the vegetable may greatly retard and even 
prevent the digestion of the vegetable protein. This 
objection is to a great extent removed if the fruit is 
served in the form of a puree, the cellulose removed as 
in prune or apple whip, fruit mold, etc., or if the vege- 
tables are tender, free from fibrous cellulose, and easy 
of digestion. There is ordinarily no objection to fruit 
juices taken at meals where vegetables are served. 

Starch and Acids 

Much has been said in regard to the combination of 
starches and acids, the reason being given that the 
ptyalin of the saliva, which acts upon starch, does its 
work only in an alkaline medium, the saliva normally 
being slightly alkaline. However, as all our food, ex- 
cept meat and nuts, contains starch, this would inter- 
dict the eating of fruits with any food ordinarily 
served. Even cottage cheese and buttermilk, with their 



174 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

lactic acid content, would have to be eaten by them- 
selves. 

Starch digestion is carried on to a great extent, in the 
small intestine, and if the process of mastication is 
thorough enough to finely divide the food, there need 
be little concern as to the chemical digestion of starch. 
As a matter of fact, fruit acids in the mouth stimulate 
the secretion of a very strongly alkaline saliva. 

Milk and Sugar 

The milk and sugar combination has already been 
spoken of, and while it is perhaps not necessary to 
avoid it entirely, it should be remembered that milk 
and sugar combined in excessive quantities may prove 
very injurious, and for one with a weak digestion 
should be avoided. 

Fruit and Milk 

Whether or not milk and fruit should be taken at the 
same meal, depends largely on hoiv they are taken. 
We quote as follows: 

" There is a deep-rooted impression that sweet milk 
and fruit should not be taken at the same meal. This idea 
is evidently largely based upon the fact that milk cur- 
dles in the presence of a fruit acid; but the curdling 
of the milk by the fruit acid aids rather than retards 
its digestion. The first thing that happens to milk 
when it reaches the stomach is that it is curdled. 
There is a special milk-curdling ferment in the stom- 
ach. A fruit juice more acid than the normal gastric 
juice of the stomach cannot be found. Lemon juice, 
one of the most acid of fruit juices, added to milk, 
renders the milk easier of digestion. We should guard 
against the sudden pouring of a large quantity of milk 
into the stomach, as this may form large, tough curds, 
difficult of digestion. If the milk is taken slowly, or 



COMBINATIONS 175 

mixed with the food as it enters the stomach, it will be 

converted into small curds." — George Thomason, M. D. 

Experiments seem to show that it is the mixing with 

the food rather than the sipping that prevents large curds. 

Medicinal Value of Fruit 

It is well to remember that fruit is practically pre- 
digested, and quickly passes from the stomach, unless 
combined with a food requiring prolonged stomach di- 
gestion. For this reason some may find it an advantage 
to eat the fruit part of their meal first, thus allowing it 
time to pass from the stomach before a great deal in the 
way of other food follows. Still others, as suggested 
above, find it better to eat their fruit alone, uncombined 
with other foods. The full medicinal value of fruit is best 
obtained by taking it on an empty stomach. Ordinarily, 
however, milk eaten on cereal or mixed with other food 
need interfere in no way with the taking of fruit with 
the same meal. Boiled milk does not form large curds, 
so is more quickly digested than raw milk and less 
liable to hinder the digestion of any other food with 
which it may be combined.^ It should be remembered 



1 " Brennemann emphasizes the following facts : ' Cow's milk is not a liquid 
food, but a solid food — so solid, in fact, that in babies the curds found in the 
stomach often pass through the intestinal tract and appear in the stools as tough, 
hard, beanlike curds.' 

" The summary of his experiments shows that raw milk skimmed, forms hard, 
rubbery masses, not easily broken. That with whole milk the masses are tough 
and leathery, but not to the same extent as skimmed milk. The use of top milk 
made the curds somewhat softer, but delayed digestion considerably. The use of 
boiled milk resulted in the curds being fine and more flocculent, no tendency to 
form masses, as does raw milk. The length of time for complete emptying of the 
stomach was somewhat shorter in the case of boiled milk. Another very interest- 
ing point he noted was, that smaller curds of raw milk had a tendency to coalesce 
and form large masses. This feature was made use of in one experiment in which 
he had the subject sip one quart of raw milk over a period of forty-five minutes, and 
thirty minutes later he tried to return the milk, but was able to get only the whey. 
Five hours later he was unable to get anything more until he had used two glasses 
of water, then only a few small curds. But during that time the subject com- 
plained of a " heavy feeling " in the pit of the stomach. The experiment was per- 
formed several times, with the same results, then was done in an open dish, using 
Chymogen (a rennet preparation), gently stirring all the time, and over a period 
of more than an hour. The results were a complete coagulation into two large 
masses which could not be broken up. His conclusions were that this same process 
occurred in the stomach and that the idea of taking milk in small sips to prevent 
the formation of large curds in the stomach was fallacious, because the curds had 
some sort of affinity for each other and would form larger masses." — Reprinted 
from an article by Dr. A. J. Scott, Jr., in the Southern California Practitioner, 
February, 1920. 



176 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

that thorough mastication will 'prevent the unpleasant 
results tvhich sometimes seem to follow the introduction 
of unlike foods into the stomach. More often incom- 
plete mastication, rather than the nonideal combination, 
leads to fermentation. 

Two Starches 

Another rule in regard to combinations that has been 
given is the one that two starches should not be eaten 
at the same meal, or that bread must not be eaten with 
a starchy food. However, as so many of our foods 
contain starch, the following of this rule would be quite 
impractical. The principle underlying it obviously in- 
volves the question of the proper food balance. This 
having been looked after by the intelligent housewife 
in the planning of the meal, the question of whether 
or not two or more foods containing starch should be 
combined can be forgotten. It can readily be seen that 
a meal composed of rice and potatoes, with white bread, 
would be far from correct healthwise, but this mistake 
no one who understands the fundamentals of dietetics 
will make. 

Two Kinds of Fruit 

Some one else raises the question, " Should two kinds 
of fruit be eaten at one meal, or is it healthful to eat 
stewed fruit and fresh fruit at the same time ? " We 
know of no reason why these combinations are objec- 
tionable, and again we would emphasize the importance 
of getting away from petty rules and of intelligently 
planning the daily dietary, combining common sense 
and good judgment with a knowledge of scientific prin- 
ciples. Eat a few well-selected foods at one meal. Do 
not overeat or undereat, but see that the foods are so 
prepared and combined in the daily ration that the 
necessary food elements in proper proportion and amount 
are supplied to the body. 



COMBINATIONS 177 

Drinking at Meals 

Drinking at meals may well be mentioned here. The 
contents of the stomach are liquid; food, when prop- 
erly masticated, approaches a liquid state. The more 
nearly homogeneous, or thoroughly mixed, this food 
mass is, the greater the ease of digestion. The semi- 
liquid food mass must be gripped by the muscular wall 
of the stomach and thoroughly permeated by and mixed 
with the gastric juice, and as an evenly divided homo- 
geneous liquid, enter the intestine. Liquid sipped, or 
taken in spoonfuls, and mixed with other food as it is 
taken, may facilitate this result, but if taken in quan- 
tities unmixed with food, it may overdistend the stom- 
ach and enfeeble its muscular grip. If, at the same 
time, chunks of incompletely masticated food are swal- 
lowed, the stomach may have to deal with a veritable 
pond in which more or less solid masses of food are 
floating, making the proposition of resolving it all into 
a well-mixed mass, a very difficult one. Housewives 
well know that in mixing water with semisolid food 
material it is much easier when the water is added 
gradually, and just so it is in the stomach. If at the 
same time the gastric juice is greatly diluted by an excess 
of fluid, the chemical phase of digestion may be hindered. 

When a large amount of concentrated food is being 
ingested, some water taken with the meal may be an 
advantage, and occasionally, as after exercise, when 
thirst demands a drink of water at mealtime, the pres- 
ence of a systemic need for water may cause the ex- 
cess of fluid to be very quickly absorbed. Fluid taken 
at meals should never interfere with thorough mast 
cation. With these principles in mind, the questic 
of water drinking at meals must be decided by the in- 
dividual, as indeed should all dietetic rules. The prin- 
ciple, not the rule, must ever be the guide. 

12 



CHAPTER XXI 

THE FEEDING OF CHILDREN 

It is in childhood that the foundation for the health 
or ills of life is laid, and more can be accomplished by 
proper feeding of the boys and girls while yet in the 
developmental stage than in after-years when the seeds 
of ill health have long been sown and nature has begun 
to take her toll. Careful feeding can do much to pre- 
vent the digestive upsets and respiratory troubles so 
common among children, and will lay a foundation for 
health and strength in after-life that means more than 
any heritage of lands or gold. 

Normal Physical Growth 

We cannot in our limited space present an exhaustive 
treatise on this important phase of dietetics, but we 
can lay down a few principles that may serve as a help- 
ful guide in the important work of supplying to the child 
the food which will yield happy results in the way of 
a normal physical growth. The body is made up of the 
food supplied to it. This food should be complete, 
untainted by impurities introduced from without or 
manufactured from within. 

Regularity 

Perhaps one of the most important things to be made 
emphatic is the necessity for regularity in feeding, with 
ample length of time between meals for the stomach to 
entirely empty itself. We find that even infants do much 
better when fed every three or four hours, than when 
fed every two hours, as has so commonly been done. 
They gain in weight more rapidly, have less colic, and 
are happier in every way. 

178 



FEEDING OF CHILDREN 179 

A Precaution 

When it is necessary to feed babies artificially, it is 
safer to use only sterilized milk. It has been found, 
too, that the boiling of milk greatly increases its diges- 
tibilitj^^ However, if the milk is boiled or even Pas- 
teurized, it is of the greatest importance that these 
babies receive in addition to their milk, at least an ounce 
of orange juice daily; a neglect of this precaution often 
being a factor in nutritional disturbances, such as 
scurvy, eczema, rickets, etc. (See Chapter IX.) Orange 
juice may be introduced carefully into their diet at any 
time after the age of one month, and it is often a valu- 
able addition to the diet of even a nursing infant. 

If the baby does not take orange juice well or if this 
fruit is difficult to obtain, the necessary vitamines may 
be supplied in potato water or in other vegetable broths. 
Other fruit juices may be used, as lemon juice or grape- 
fruit juice, or the juice of canned tomatoes may be given. 

After Seven Months 

It is well, after the age of seven months, gradually 
to introduce into the diet additional foods, as vegetable 
broths and purees, potato gruel, and cereal gruels. To 
make the cereal gruels, the cereals should, after thorough 
cooking, be put through a colander or strainer, and to 
the jelly-like mass left should be added milk (not cream) 
to make it the consistency of gruel. Add no sugar. 

The Second Year — Importance of Vegetables 

A little later, or by the age of nine months, vegetable 
purees, oven toast, hard crackers, and scraped apple or 
apple sauce should be given; also other fruit purees and 
fruit juices. Early in the second year the child should 



1 According to Dennett, the milk or milk mixture, the proportion depending upon 
the baby's age, should be boiled vigorously for three minutes, stirring well to pre- 
vent the formation of a scum. The curds formed from this milk are fine and much 
like those of mother's milk, and when properly supplemented with orange juice and 
vegetable broths, are not constipating. 



180 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

begin to have green vegetables, as spinach, green peas, 
string beans, etc. These should be pureed at first, but 
soon the child may be taught to masticate thoroughly 
the more tender cellulose, so that tender, carefully cooked 
vegetables may be given without being strained or pu- 
reed. This early training to like vegetables is of great 
importance. 

Milk is ever a very important food for children, and 
throughout childhood a quart of milk daily may well 
form the basis of the diet. Milk may be considered a 
safeguard against conditions arising from a defici- 
diet. However, as important as it is, it should not be 
allowed to crowd out other important foods, especially 
the leafy vegetables. One mistake that is often made is 
in keeping children too long on milk alone, some babies 
being nursed into the second year or kept upon the bottle 
long after they should be having a greater variety of 
food. 

Cereals Without Sugar 

The cereals will during the second year have an im- 
portant place in the diet of the child, along with milk 
toast and stale bread and milk. In the beginning of the 
second year, well-cooked cereals may be given the child 
without the preparatory process of straining. These 
cereals should be tJioroughly cooked. The mistake is 
often made of adding sugar to the cereal, but the child 
should learn from the first to take cereal and milk 
without sugar. Great harm is done by educating chil- 
dren to like sugar in this way. Never at any time 
should the combination of milk and sugar be allowed 
on cereal, whether gruel or mush. 

Bread should be whole wheat and Graham, or made 
from other whole grains, and should be at least thirty- 
six hours old. All toast given the child, whether dry 
or as milk toast, should be in the form, of oven toast. 



FEEDING OF CHILDREN 181 

hard clear through. Ordinarily, after six months the 
daily feedings should be four, at four-hour intervals, and 
the sooner after the age of twelve months that a child 
is put on three meals a day the better, with orange 
juice and perhaps other fresh fruit, as, for example, 
a scraped apple, between meals. 

Sweets 

Artificial sweets should be limited. (See Chapter VIII, 
p. 66, quotation from Dr. Kerley.) It were better for 
any child if he need never know of the existence of cake, 
pie, ice cream, and ordinary desserts. It is only as a 
result of education that children acquire the sweet tooth 
so common among them. But it can hardly be hoped 
that the ideal will be reached — there are too many lov- 
ing friends to teach our children to like these things for 
us to expect to be able to keep sweets entirely away 
from them. If the sweets could be limited to their 
proper place and to that alone, no harm perhaps might 
be done, but with the knowledge of the delight to the. 
palate comes the difficulty of teaching proper control 
and moderation. However, this must be done, and our 
aim as parents must be, if not to restrict entirely, to 
limit candy and other sweets to the proper time, place, 
and amount. Much can be done in this direction, and 
it is surprising how much co-operation can be elicited 
from the little folks if they are taught in the interesting 
way that it is possible for them to be taught, the im- 
portance of caring for the body machine as carefully as 
father looks after his watch or his automobile. 

Self-Control 

The element of education and discipline entering into 
this phase of child culture gives the parents the great 
opportunity of obtaining results not only in a physical 
way, but also in the way of character building and self- 



182 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

control, so closely is the physical allied to the intellectual 
and moral. 

But it is only as the mother has mastered for herself 
the problem of eating for health and the necessary self- 
control to reach this hig-h ideal, that she can be master 
of the important work of feeding and teaching her child. 

Generosity 

The dainty morsel of candy can be eaten as dessert, 
and when the little one has, with a hearty appetite, 
eaten well of the dinner served, a very small amount 
of candy will suffice. Then too, as a matter of polite- 
ness, the supply of sweets must be passed and divided 
with the members of the family, and in this way the 
amount may be quite easily limited to the one or two 
pieces the child may be allowed to have. With great 
care should the mother prepare the simple dessert al- 
lowed her tiny man, that there may be nothing served 
him that would in any way detract from the benefit his 
little body should derive from this food. 

Simple Desserts 

Cereal desserts made with cereal, egg, and a moder- 
ate amount of sugar are often good (see recipes. Chap- 
ter XXXI), and, served at the midday meal, simply add 
more calories that the growing child may thrive. Des- 
serts such as prune whip, banana whip, junket, fruit 
mold (see recipes. Chapter XXXI), are all good and 
supply the necessary sweet. The little one will delight 
in these simple things if they are made attractive, and 
he will derive only benefit from them. Dried fruits, as 
figs, dates, raisins, etc., may help to supply the needed 
sweet in a very wholesome form. 
Fresh Fruits 

The child should have fresh fruit daily, which will 
be delighted in for its own flavor, if a little tact is 



FEEDING OF CHILDREN 183 

used by the thoughtful mother. The sliced peaches, 
berries, and other fresh fruit served may be enjoyed 
without the sugar usually added. Special care should 
be taken that this fruit be naturally sweet and pala- 
table. The children will enjoy honey, instead of sugar, 
on their grapefruit and it will be better for them. 
(See page 212.) The older members of the family may 
in their interest in watching the beautiful development 
of this normal boy or girl, become enthusiastic in eating 
as carefully as the little folks are taught to eat, and thus 
become examples, incidentally deriving immense advan- 
tage to themselves. 

Ice Cream 

A taste for ice cream should not be cultivated early. 
As the child grows older it may seem almost impossible 
to withhold it entirely, but it must be insisted upon 
that it be eaten only at mealtime, that it take the place 
of real food, and that it be eaten slowly and in moder- 
ation. Too much cannot be said against the pernicious 
custom of permitting the child to obtain ice-cream sodas 
and ice-cream cones promiscuously from any and every 
ice-cream stand. This tempting sweet should be ob- 
tained from a source that guarantees its freshness and 
purity, and served with care, preferably at the regular 
meal. 

Cake 

A simple sponge cake or plain cooky may be allowed 
in place of, or in connection with, the dessert. 

At bread-making time a crusty, sweet cake can be 
made from the bread dough that will be as much a de- 
light to the normally educated child as a French pastry 
to the one who has been trained to like excessive and 
rich sweets. When pie is served the older members, 
how the little one will rejoice in a tiny pie made espe- 



184 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

cially for his or her benefit, and the crust may be as 
hygienic as bread, for it may be made from the same 
dough, and its palatabiHty will never be questioned by 
the small recipient. 

Concentrated Food 

Another common mistake in feeding children is in 
the thought that they must have an abundance of fat 
— cream on their cereal, butter freely on bread, richly 
seasoned vegetables, and even fried and greasy foods. 
This plan for them does untold harm, and their ap- 
petites are so educated that they can never, perhaps, get 
away from the bondage of acquired and perverted tastes. 
Dr. Kerley says that " the average child after the sixth 
year receives two or three times as much energy food 
as he requires." (This statement probably does not 
include the poorer classes.) Energy food we know to 
be fat and carbohydrate. 

Undesirable Results 

In almost every case whole milk is better than cream. 
The child needs ample protein, but not an excess of fat. 
The catarrhal conditions, frequent colds, enlarged ton- 
sils, adenoids, and recurrent bronchitis so common 
among children undoubtedly are favored, if not caused, 
by the excess of fat given them, together with the large 
amount of sweets allowed in their diet. The result of 
these mistakes is never entirely overcome, and thus 
the individual goes through life handicapped because of 
the ignorance of his parents. 

A Corrective Diet 

For a child subject to colds, no plan is better than a 
diet limited, for a time at least, to boiled skim milk, 
whole cereals, green vegetables, fruits, cottage cheese, 
buttermilk, vegetable broths, and vegetable soups (see 



FEEDING OF CHILDREN 185 

recipes 23 to 31, Chapter XXXI), with perhaps an 
occasional egg. Butter used veiy moderately if at all. 
Above all things, do not serve your children hot fresh 
bread, griddle cakes, fried potatoes, richly seasoned 
foods of any kind. 

To Encourage Mastication 

Give the children plenty of food requiring thorough 
mastication, as hard-tack, oven toast, etc. Teach them 
to masticate thoroughly. Impress upon their minds that 
if they are to have beautiful, sound teeth, these teeth 
must be exercised as well as kept clean. Tell them how 
the starch is changed to sugar in the mouth. Let them 
become interested in seeing how much sugar they can 
manufacture out of a crust of bread and how sweet 
the sugar will taste. The social element at mealtime 
may be one of the best safeguards against too rapid 
eating and improper mastication. 

We quote the following: 

" After the teeth begin to come, children should be 
given all their starchy food in as hard a form as pos- 
sible and the per cent of starch limited. 

" The preponderance of the carbohydrates in the diet 
is one of the causes of so many children entering the 
kindergarten with their teeth broken down to the gums 
and small undersized jaws. One of our responsibihties 
is spreading the knowledge that no demineralized white 
bread or crackers should ever be given to a child under 
five. We not only need all the lime salts contained in 
the dark breads to build the teeth and bones, but we 
need exercise to develop the jaws. 

" Children who eat tough bran bread made into toast 
instead of mush, and who do not drink while eating, 
usually get the proper development of the jaws." — M. 
Evangeline Jordan, D. D. S., in California State Health 
Bulletin. 



186 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

Co-operation 

Children must never be allowed to drink tea or coffee ; 
even cocoa should be kept away from them. They are 
much better off without meat and meat broths with their 
protein wastes. It is well for the child up to the age of 
four or five years to eat by himself, and not at the 
family table, unless the other members of the household 
can themselves co-operate with the small boy or girl in 
eating for body strength and health. Usually the eve- 
ning dinner is later than the child should take his 
evening meal, and it becomes a simple matter to serve 
his simple meal at 5 : 30, and his appetite is entirely 
satisfied when an hour later his elders partake of theirs. 

Between Meals 

Never should food be allowed between meals. If the 
hungry boy waits until mealtime, he will eat at the right 
time the food he needs, and care much less about the 
sweet after-part. Plain food will taste good and be 
quite satisfactory, and the supply taken will be sufl^- 
cient to last until the next regular meal. If the boy 
after school must have something to " stay his stomach " 
until supper time, let it be an apple or other fruit, and 
this the regular daily plan, instead of a spasmodic one. 

School Lunches 

For school lunches, fresh juicy fruits should always 
be included if possible. In addition, a ripe banana, 
dates, raisins, nuts, and olives are valuable. Stuffed 
dates are easily prepared and are enjoyed quite as well 
as the less hygienic sweets. These foods, together with 
whole-wheat or Graham sandwiches made so as to sup- 
ply protein and vitamines, and, if possible, a thermos 
bottle of milk or vegetable soup, make the best lunches 
for growing boys and girls. (See page 170.) 



FEEDING OF CHILDREN 187 

Amount of Food Needed by Child 

During the period of growth and development, much 
more food is needed per pound of body weight than 
after maturity is- reached. It is impossible to say how 
much food a growing child may need. It all depends 
upon the activity of the child and the rapidity with 
which new tissues are formed. The child who cares 
little for vigorous play but enjoys his books, should eat 
less food than the one who plays hard all day. Other 
things being equal, the child of phlegmatic temperament 
will need less food than the one who is of a more nerv- 
ous, impulsive type. The amount of food needed depends 
upon tissue activity, and this varies with individual 
temperament. Boys, because of greater muscular activ- 
ity, need more food than do girls. 

Every mother should see that her child gets active 
physical exercise daily. Then if the boy or girl is fed 
regularly, does not eat between meals, eats wholesome 
food, prepared with due regard for hygienic principles 
as outlined above, the appetite will be one of the best 
guides as to the amount of food required. 

Lack of Appetite 

When the appetite of the child seems to fail, it usu- 
ally means that he has been eating too much concen- 
trated food, and limiting his diet for a meal, or a day, 
to fruits and fruit juices, will often prove very beneficial 
and insure a speedy return to a good appetite. A care- 
ful estimate for a few weeks of the calories taken by 
the child will be of advantage to the mother from an 
educational standpoint, and will permit her to study and 
to determine the results when the daily amount in food 
units is decreased or increased for a time. 

Because of the constant formation of new tissue, the 
protein part of the child's diet may well be kept to at 



188 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

least the minimum standard for the adult — that of 200 
calories. This is by no means to be regarded as an 
arbitrary standard. The point to be emphasized is that 
the child needs a relatively higher protein ration than 
the man. It should be remembered that it is not bulk 
so much as concentration of food that determines its 
caloric value. And also that the candy or knickknack 
taken between meals may increase the total food value 
above actual body requirement, even though the child 
eats a comparatively small amount of food at mealtime. 

Body Demands Great 

Do not underfeed yom- children. They must be prop- 
erly and sufficiently nourished. Their body demands are 
great and must be supplied, but they can have enough 
food without that which will handicap rather than help 
the body in its work. Of protein they must have an 
ample amount, of carbohydrate and fat a normal supply, 
but they may get this without excess and with every 
advantage to their growing needs. Great danger lies in 
a diet for them top-heavy in fats and carbohydrates, 
with often not enough protein. The results of such an 
unbalanced diet are serious, and parents should know 
how to avoid a mistake which is far too common. Some 
sweets they should have, but the intelligent mother, hav- 
ing mastered the important principles of nutrition, will 
supply these in a simple, not too concentrated form and 
combined in a healthful way. She will be teacher as 
well as mother, and will teach her boys and girls that 
the most wonderful, the most manly, womanly thing 
they can do is to develop strong, healthy, normal body 
machines that will make of them strong, noble men and 
women, able always to do well their part and to make 
a success of life. 



CHAPTER XXII 

FADS 

What to eat has always been the big and engrossing 
question with mankind ever since Eve in the garden 
made her first great mistake, and Adam as the result 
was sentenced to a lifelong earning of his bread in the 
sweat of his face. The question has been an absorbing 
one from the viewpoint of the epicurean whose desire 
was to find some new thing with which to please the 
palate, to that of the man or woman who in the face of 
poverty has had the problem to solve with the wolf at 
the door. 

What Shall We Eat? 

The primary thought in regard to eating having ever 
been to please the senses, man has long since reached 
the place where because of certain discomforts and ail- 
ments obviously due to error somewhere in the amount 
or kind of food taken, he asks the question, " What shall 
I eat? " from the standpoint of one who has come to 
realize that he must eat to live rather than live to eat. 

We hear the question from the man or woman who 
regards it sanely, sensibly, and with a real desire to 
understand the principles underlying nutrition; and 
from the fanatic and the hypochondriac, who look upon 
all food as an enemy and seem to think that the less of 
it and in the more unpalatable form the better, expect- 
ing that everything eaten will cause distress unless it 
be taken according to the most rigid rules and with the 
utmost self-denial. 

This question has been carefully investigated from the 
viewpoint of science, more and greater light has grad- 

189 



190 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

ually been thrown upon it, until today those interested 
in this all-important subject have only to study the 
proper literature to learn much in regard to the scien- 
tific principles underlying the question of how to sup- 
ply the body with proper food. 

Fads Many and Varied 

Together with a fund of scientific facts accessible to 
the investigative mind are various fancies and fads 
brought forth by those who in their searching have 
often got but a single truth instead of the whole fun- 
damental outline involving body nutrition. Fads in re- 
gard to diet are many and varied. The question of eat- 
ing having become so problematical, men both scientific 
and otherwise have advanced many theories as to the 
practical solution of these dietetic problems. 

Fasting 

The partaking of food leading to so many ills, it has 
been only a matter of course that some one should come 
forward with the assertion that, if eating causes such 
a large proportion of sickness, abstinence from food 
would undoubtedly prove a cure-all, and so the " fast- 
ing " fad has had its day. 

Forced Feeding 

So much trouble has resulted from faulty and incom- 
plete nutrition, that it has seemed the natural thing that 
an effort be made to overcome this condition by forcing 
an excess of food upon the body. The thought has been 
that at least a part of the excess must be assimilated 
and that the body, gaining strength from added nour- 
ishment, would be better able to cope with problems due 
to a weak digestive tract. And so " forced feeding " 
has played a great part in the treatment of anemic 
conditions, malnutrition, and wasting disease, as tuber- 
culosis, etc. 



FADS 191 

Low Protein 

Abnormal conditions resulting from errors in protein 
digestion and metabolism being so apparent, the " low 
protein " idea has been advanced, and many have been 
led to the extreme of omitting as nearly as possible all 
protein from the diet — subsisting on a meatless, egg- 
less, milkless diet, with nothing to take the place of 
these protein foods. 

Milk Diet 

Protein, however, being such a necessity and the harm 
resulting from a deficient protein diet so apparent, to 
secure this food in as digestible and assimilable a form 
as possible has seemed most important, and so the " milk 
diet " has had and still holds a great place as a " cure- 
all " for all conditions of disturbed nutrition and chronic 
disease. 

No Breakfast 

Others, seeing conditions so often resulting from an 
overworked digestive tract and an excessive body fuel 
supply, have sought to solve the problem and to obtain 
results by the " no breakfast plan," which has worked 
admirably in many cases. 

Raw Food 

Again, the prevalence of eating processed, overcooked, 
overseasoned foods having been so evidently a factor in 
the causation of disease, the advantages of the other ex- 
treme have been widely heralded, and the " raw food " 
fad has had a great following, with much benefit, no 
doubt, to some. 

Combinations 

So much of digestive disturbance seemingly being due 
to improper combination of various sorts, many have 
thought that all dietetic errors might be corrected if 



192 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

a few rules in regard to what foods may be combined, 
were obeyed, and so, many " diet specialists " have con- 
fined their dietetic teaching to the question of " combi- 
nations." So we hear that a starch and an acid must 
not be eaten at the same meal; bread must not be eaten 
with starchy foods; two starches must not be combined; 
two kinds of fruits, fruit and vegetables, fruit and milk, 
are all wrong combinations, until one finds himself so 
surrounded by a maze of rules that bewilderment re- 
sults and fear lest some rule be disobeyed takes such 
a hold that eating becomes a burden and the digestive 
organs, affected by anxious mental impulse, are unable 
to care for the simple food that may be taken. These 
bewildered friends, still suffering ills apparently due to 
dietetic mistakes, are at loss to know how to solve a 
problem which becomes more and more a vital one, and 
in desperation ask the question, "What can we eat?" 

" Eat What You Want " 

Along with this comes the theory that it does not 
make any difference what you eat ; " forget it and eat 
what you want." Build up the general health by exer- 
cise, and proper and regular living; maintain the cor- 
rect mental attitude and eat what your appetite calls 
for. For those who have long been introspective and 
have feared to eat, this advice may be very timely. 

Many Winds of Doctrine 

We should wish no one to think that we have not the 
fullest respect for each one of these various rules in 
regard to eating. Each one has done much good, and 
in selected cases under proper supervision there is no 
doubt but that each one of these may apply and per- 
haps in a more or less modified way be used with great 
success in the treatment of various and sundry abnor- 



FADS 193 

mal conditions. Every one of these hobbies has had its 
basis in truth. It is in the applicaticn that mistakes 
have been made. The rule has been advanced, the rea- 
son why has been vague and indefinite, and the people, 
untaught in regard to body processes and food composi- 
tion, have been tossed about by many winds of dietetic 
doctrine. 

A Better Way 

The reason for these rules in regard to eating becomes 
very apparent when one has been properly educated in 
food fundamentals. The application, based upon princi- 
ple, then becomes plain and the modern housewife, as 
the home dietitian, may wisely plan the food program 
for her family in such a way as to apply sensibly the 
principles upon which all these fads are founded. She 
can thus avoid the necessity of having members of her 
family submit to any one of the above lines of dietetic 
treatment for the correction of conditions which are 
brought on by overeating, undereating, or improper 
eating of any sort. 

Briefly, we will consider the principles underlying the 
application of the eight methods given above of over- 
coming nutritional ills. 

An Antitoxic Diet 

1. Fasting. — In conditions of auto-intoxication and 
overloaded digestive tract, excessive putrefaction in the 
large intestine and a body often supersaturated with 
nourishment, a fast for a more or less limited time 
undoubtedly would be indicated. It must be remem- 
bered, however, that except perhaps for a short time, 
the advantage of a complete fast, without the disad- 
vantage, may be obtained by a modified fast, such as a 
food supply limited to those things that will tend to 
decrease auto-intoxication, e. g., fruits and fruit juices. 

13 



194 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

These may be taken alone or with vegetable broth or 
green vegetables, and perhaps lactic acid foods, as cot- 
tage cheese, buttermilk, and yogurt/ An occasional 
meal missed, or a day without food or with nothing but 
fruit, will often be found a great advantage. " Abstemi- 
ousness in diet is rewarded by mental and moral vigor." 
— White. 

2. Forced Feeding. — Less can be said in favor of 
this plan. However, there are cases where the food 
supply has long been deficient when it may be found a 
decided advantage to insist upon the ingestion of food 
in amounts necessary to supply the excess of nourish- 
ment needed to build up a body long weakened and 
wasted from lack of food. This is to be done grad- 
ually and carefully, with due regard for existing con- 
ditions and dietetic principles. This plan should always 
be carried out under competent supervision. 

Serious Results 

3. Low Protein. — Those who have long overeaten of 
protein food and are suffering the results of protein 
putrefaction in the intestine and incomplete protein me- 
tabolism, often do well for a time on much less than a 
normal supply of this nitrogenous food, until the excess 
has been eliminated and the body calls for more to keep 
up actual repair. However, this must be done carefully, 
as an exceedingly low protein diet continued for too 
long a time will result in weakness, lowered nerve tone, 
malnutrition, and even, because of lowered resistance, 
in an increased susceptibility to such diseases as tuber- 
culosis. In these cases the ingestion of protein is less 
than the outgo; the body is out of nitrogenous equilib- 



1 In the dietetic treatment of diabetes, an initial period of fasting is often car- 
ried on under the careful supervision of the attending physician. (See page 249.) 



PADS 195 

Hum (see footnote, page 38), and the results will be 
serious unless the condition is soon corrected. 

In Selected Cases 

U. The Milk Diet. — This diet is valuable in many 
cases. It permits of an excess of nourishment in an eas- 
ily digested and assimilated form. Many will take the 
amount of food units that their body needs and the 
excess that, because of depleted conditions, they should 
have for a time, in the form of milk better than in any 
other way. However, we believe that these cases should 
be carefully selected and that often the same, or even 
better, results may be obtained by a modified milk diet, 
or by a diet in which the same advantages may be de- 
rived without the absolute restriction. We know of no 
serious objection to the milk diet as a trial, even though 
the same results might be obtained in another way. 
The plan is simple and needs not the thorough knowl- 
edge of foods necessary in planning a varied diet with 
the same results in view. 

Often little permanent good results from this plan 
of feeding, because the patient, upon going back to his 
usual dietetic program, returns to the same errors that 
led to trouble in the first place; so he has gained little 
in the way of lasting benefit if in addition to the milk 
diet he has not obtained a knowledge of the normal 
rational eating that makes for health. 

5. The No-Breakfast Plan. — This plan we consider a 
very good one because, first, many have eaten a hearty 
dinner the evening before, their digestive organs have 
had to work while they slept and are in no condition 
in the early morning to take up the work of digesting 
even a light breakfast; secondly, the plan lessens the 
daily food intake and discourages overeating; thirdly, 
the digestive organs should have more rest between 



196 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

meals than they usually get, six to eight hours inter- 
vening being the ideal. With no breakfast and an early 
lunch this would be accomplished. 

It can readily be seen, however, that understanding 
the principle, one may get the same advantageous re- 
sults by leaving out supper or by eating carefully three 
times a day. 

6. Raw Food Diet. — The advantages of this are 
many : 

a. It insures an ample supply of vitamines, which less- 
ens the amount of protein needed. (See Chapter IX.) 

b. It necessitates thorough mastication. 

c. It prevents rapid eating. 

d. It hinders excessive seasoning and the use of super- 
heated fats. 

e. Many vegetables are more digestible raw than 
cooked. 

These principles borne in mind will enable one to 
avail himself of all the advantages of the raw food diet 
without the restrictions. However, too much cannot be 
said in favor of the eating of vegetables and fruits raw, 
a certain amount of these taken daily being a decided 
advantage. 

7. Combinations. — This is by no means an unimpor- 
tant subject, and the housewife wishing to feed her fam- 
ily for the best results in health and vigor, should be 
informed as to the principles underlying this phase of 
dietetics. But here, as elsewhere, those who have only 
a few rules by which to be guided, without a knowledge 
of the reasons why, will often fail to accomplish the 
important results they seek. (See Chapter XX.) 

8. " Eat What You Want." — For the poor neuras- 
thenic, who has forgotten everything in life but the 
question of what he dare put into his stomach, this is 



FADS 197 

perhaps the best of all. And it explains the often ap- 
parently marvelous results of various faith cures, so 
called. Too much attention to the digestive tract may 
be worse than none at all, and some may well, for a 
time at least, " forget it." 

Principles, Not Rules 

Again the importance of intelligent application of 
principle cannot be too emphatically urged. Let us 
know our bodies and their needs ; supply them wisely 
and in a masterly way, and thus rise above the petty 
handicaps that hinder us in our endeavor to reach our 
ideals and to find success. 



" The)e a)e moie tJiinc/s in heaven and eat-th, 
Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philoso- 
phy." — Shakespeare. 



CHAPTER XXIII 
FOOD ECONOMY 

Intelligent economy in food means conservation, not 
only of food but also of health. This was well illus- 
trated in the food conservation campaign during the 
Great War. Up to that time the American people, as 
a whole, had known little real need for economy in any 
direction, and the resulting profligacy in foods went 
hand in hand with extravagant expenditures of body 
resources as regarded health. 

The season of stress through which we so recently 
passed, demanding the greatest effort in the direction of 
food economy, could only result in a betterment of the 
general health of the people, for it placed a very definite 
check on overeating, which, of all wastes, should be 
studiously avoided, because it wastes not only food but 
health. Better to let perfectly good food rot in the 
garbage can than in the digestive tract, much as the 
former is to be deplored. 

In the light of scientific education the knowledge im- 
parted to the people at that time was of inestimable 
value. Many a mother was blessed with a new vision. 
The needs of the hour gradually lent a new interest to 
her plans. Her work was no longer a mere drudgery, 
with its only purpose to please the varied tastes of a 
family demanding that their appetites be pampered three 
times a day, but she became master of a new situation, 
that of furnishing the table with foods adequate for 
body needs, yet balanced with such correctness that 
there was the least possible waste in the raw material, 
in its preparation, or in its ultimate utilization by the 
body. This, while meeting the situation of the hour, 

198 



FOOD ECONOMY 199 

she learned, promised the highest and most satisfactory 
results in the health and strength of those eating at her 
table. She found herself no longer merely a cook, but 
a dietitian as well, whether she prepared the food with 
her own hands or directed its preparation. Thus, while 
she served her country, she became an added blessing 
to her family and to the race. 

The need no longer so urgent, many a housewife, 
having learned the way of true economy, still continues 
to guide the eating habits of her family in the direction 
that will lead to the results most needed by the home 
and nation in time of peace as well as in time of war. 
But there are others, and more, who are too prone to 
forget the lessons of that time and to drift back into 
habits of eating that because of the very abundance of 
the food supply, can only tend to lower the standard 
of health. 

True food economy in so far as the body is concerned, 
is the partaking of the minimum amount of food neces- 
sary to fully supply the body needs and to keep one in 
health with some reserve in the form of food stored as 
fat. Overeating, as we have learned, clogs the digestive 
tract, interferes with proper oxidation and with com- 
plete elimination. On this point we can do no better 
than to give the following, taken from " Dietotherapy," 
Fitch, Volume II, page 135 : 

" Overeating causes congestion of the liver and a con- 
dition known as ' biliousness,' in which the stomach 
and intestines are engorged. Constipation ensues, the 
tongue becomes heavily coated, the bodily secretions are 
altered in composition, and the urine especially becomes 
overloaded with salts. It is evident that we are not 
nourished by the food we eat, but by the amount we 
can properly use and assimilate. Probably an excess 
beyond this amount is beneficial, because it supplies a 



200 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

reserve upon which the body can depend for nourish- 
ment in time of need. However, it is absolutely patent 
that chronic overeating so clogs the machinery of the 
body that the organs of elimination and excretion are 
unable to work as they should, intestinal stasis follows, 
the surplus food material putrefies before it is absorbed 
in the intestine, the urinary tract becomes infected, the 
circulation becomes involved in the toxic invasion, and 
>the whole system is poisoned. 

" This condition of intestinal toxemia brings in its 
train many mental and physical disabilities. The nerv- 
ous and muscular systems become saturated with the 
end products of protein digestion, producing a state of 
lassitude, headache, fatigue, drowsiness, and even men- 
tal stupor. 

" The effect of chronic overeating on the mental pow- 
ers is very evident. Indeed, it may be laid down as an 
axiom that a person who habitually overeats is incapable 
of good or sustained mental work. . . . The brain worker 
or business man, who eats largely, especially in the 
middle of the day, cannot use his mental powers prop- 
erly. His mind loses its acuity; and as for flights of 
imagination, if he is a literary man, they are impossible. 
Overeating is an insurmountable obstacle in the way of 
mental endeavor. The handicap placed upon the entire 
system as the result of overeating is too great to b-^ 
overcome, and the mind refuses to respond to th? 
stimulus of thought." 

And again, from an editorial in the Medical Record, 
June 16, 1917: "Economy in food does not signify ill 
health, but rather the reverse, as undoubtedly in time 
of peace and prosperity a very large number of people 
eat unsuitable food and more than is good for them." 

The big food problem of the war was that of having 
enough food to go around. The solution to this lay 



FOOD ECONOMY 201 

largely in every one's eating only enough to adequately 
supply his physical needs, but this necessitated the edu- 
cation of the people and obtained for them information 
as to food values and body nutrition that they had al- 
ways needed but had never received. Dr. H. Edwin 
Lewis said in American Medicine of May, 1917: "Not 
the least of the duties of this department [Department 
of Food Conservation] will be the systematic dissemi- 
nation of information in regard to the amounts and 
kinds of foods required to maintain perfect health." 

But not only was a reduction in the total amount found 
necessary, but certain kinds of foods needed to be used 
more sparingly and with greater care, and we saw the 
civilized world thrust back, as it were, by the irresist- 
ible force of circumstances, to the normal food balance, 
proportionate with natural supply. Invariably, the 
foods, in the use of which there had to be a reduction, 
were those foods that we had been using in excess of 
physical need and that we could not have had, had not 
the total food supply been so abundant. And we found 
that many things ordinarily considered only waste, con- 
tained valuable food elements which were in many cases 
sorely needed to balance up a one-sided food intake. So 
the outcome of this most valuable educational campaign, 
in so far as suggestions were carried out, could only 
mean a normal readjustment of food supply with a 
proper balance as to food intake. The suggestions of 
the Department of Food Conservation read like an out- 
line in hygienic dietetics, and we could perhaps find no 
better summary for healthful eating than is found in 
the following: 

First, eat less meat. We came face to face with the 
fact of our extravagance in feeding so much of our food 
grains to stock and then killing and eating the animals 
which might have been saved for the production of 



202 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

milk, by far the most economic method of converting 
vegetable to animal food. We were reminded that every 
pound of meat not eaten would save ten pounds of grain, 
and the economic value of a vegetarian diet became 
very apparent. (See Chapter XV.) 

Second, eat less fat. In " Ten Lessons of Food Con- 
servation," by the United States Food Administration, 
we were advised to " avoid cooking by means of frying," 
and again, to " preach the gospel of reducing the total 
amount of fats one third of an ounce per day for each 
adult." We were told that the waste of one fourth of 
an ounce of butter daily in every one of our twenty 
million households would mean 312,500 pounds a day, 
114,062,500 pounds a year. Among other suggestions 
there were these : " Choose recipes calling for less fats ; " 
"use cream desserts sparingly;" "buy whole milk in- 
stead of cream ; use the top milk on cereals, etc., and 
the remainder for drinking and cooking." (See Chap- 
ter VII.) 

Third, reduce our sugar supply. It was suggested 
that more honey be used; that fresh fruits be eaten 
more plentifully instead of the cooked foods requiring 
sugar; that dried fruits be used to take the place of 
sugar; that dried fruits be added to desserts, in this 
way lessening the amount of sugar needed. (See Chap- 
ter VIII.) 

Fourth, do without white flour. We found it neces- 
sary to use flours made from a variety of cereals, as oat- 
meal, cornmeal, buckwheat, and rice. Those most ad- 
dicted to the use of fine flour bread learned, because of 
war-time necessity, to cultivate a taste for breads made 
from the coarse, unrefined, whole grains. (See Chap- 
ter XIII.) 

Fifth, use more vegetables in season and prepare 
them without ivaste. We were shown that much that 



FOOD ECONOMY 203 

was valuable in the way of nutritional elements has 
been thrown away. These parts the people were urged 
to use. (See Chapter XII.) 

Sixth, conserve fuel. We were urged to use more 
food in its raw state, and whenever possible to use the 
fireless cooker. (See Chapter IX.) 

While the seventh and last has perhaps more to do 
with the character than health, we cannot complete our 
chapter without it. 

Seventh, ivaste not, want not. Our attention was 
called to the enormous waste in this country. A govern- 
ment bulletin told us that the estimated food waste of 
the United States equaled in value $700,000,000 annually. 
Dr. H. Edwin Lewis, in American Medicine of May, 
1917, said : " It is a well-established fact that the waste 
of food each year is enormous. The amazing prosper- 
ity throughout the country during the past few years 
has made the people careless, and in the kitchens of our 
homes, our large hotels, and public institutions especially, 
the waste, according to very conservative estimates has 
been said to exceed 10 per cent. Indeed, there are those 
who, as a result of careful thought and investigation, do 
not hesitate to say that 20 per cent is nearer correct. 
. . . There is the waste due to thoughtless extravagance 
in supplying our tables, a common fault of which the 
majority of the American people are guilty. Thus, at 
every meal in the home or public eating place the aver- 
age individual invariably insists on having a great deal 
more than he needs — often more than he can possibly 
eat. The remainder is usually thrown away." 

From the I7idepende7it at that time the following was 
taken : " What is needed is the individual cultivation of 
the custom of taking no more food on the plate than 
one expects to eat and then eating it all, unless it proves 
unpalatable or excessive. If this practice were univer- 



204 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

sal, we should have enough to put up a palatial post 
office in every hamlet, pension the descendants of all the 
soldiers, build the biggest navy in the world, and carry 
out many of the schemes of social improvement urged 
upon us." 

The lessons learned at that time were productive of 
much good. Many are still profiting by them, but with 
others there is the tendency to drift back to the old 
careless habits. Perhaps the high cost of living is not 
without its advantages, in that it enforces economy as 
regards those foods, the extravagant use of which can 
only be detrimental to health. 

Even in times of prosperity the world's needs are 
great enough to demand conservation of resources in 
every way possible. " The gospel of the clean plate." so 
impressed upon our minds in times of stress, should 
never be forgotten in times of prosperity, and the ad- 
monition to " gather up the fragments that remain, that 
nothing be lost," should be the rule of daily living, no 
matter how abundant our supply. From every view- 
point the problem of feeding the family with the least 
expense, the least food waste, and the best results in 
a sufficient and properly balanced food supply, may be- 
come one of fascinating interest. It may make of the 
housewife a scientist as well as an artist. It may help to 
raise home-keeping to the dignity of a profession, and in 
the time of greatest prosperity do more for the nation in 
the conservation of resources and of race betterment 
than can in any other way be accomplished. 

" Much food is w the tillage of the poor: but 
there is that is destroyed for want of judg- 
ment." — Bible. 



CHAPTER XXIV 

A VEGETARIAN DIET WITHOUT DAIRY 
PRODUCTS 

Lacto- Vegetarianism 

Vegetarianism, as generally applied, means a diet 
free from flesh food. However, strictly speaking, it re- 
fers to a diet derived entirely from vegetable sources, 
all animal food, such as milk, eggs, and butter being 
excluded. A fleshless diet, including milk, has been 
more exactly termed lacto-vegetarianism, and this, Mc- 
Collum says, has been found to be " the most highly 
satisfactory diet ever adopted in the nutrition of man," 
and is what is usually meant by the term " vegetarian- 
ism." Careful investigation shows that it is possible also 
to derive all necessary food elements and a properly 
balanced ration from a strictly vegetarian diet. But, 
to accomplish this requires so detailed a knowledge of 
foods and their values, with such a degree of wisdom 
in their combination, that the general adoption of such 
a diet would be fraught with much danger to the people. 
As long as milk is included in the diet, a sufficient and 
balanced ration is easily possible. It is in the elimina- 
tion of milk that the difficulty lies. 

Educate the People 

Great strides would need to be taken in the education 
of the people before such a dietetic regime could safely 
be advised. And yet, as has been demonstrated in the 
late war, there are times in the experience of man when 
a knowledge that would make it possible for him to 
adapt himself to such a diet, would be of infinite value 

205 



206 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

as a means of life saving- in times of emergency.^ At 
any rate, the time is ripe for people everywhere to be 
thoroughly educated as to the ways and means of pre- 
serving proper nourishment under all circumstances and 
conditions, that they may be resourceful in times of 
unusual food conditions, whether individual or national. 

There are individuals who, while needing the com- 
plete protein nourishment furnished by milk and eggs, 
are not able properly to digest and utilize them. There 
are conditions of ill health which could be markedly 
improved were it possible for the patient to be properly 
nourished without the use of animal protein, with its 
tendency to intestinal putrefaction and toxemia. For 
these a balanced ration, complete in every way, easy of 
digestion and assimilation, entirely of vegetable origin, 
would be of great value. 

For the sake of these, and from the standpoint of its 
general educational value, we will endeavor to show how 



^ Milk. — The question of milk is a very obtrusive one in war time. It has be- 
come almost an article of faith that a large supply of milk is indispensable to the 
maintenance of good health, and that, if a milk supply failed wholly or in part, 
the consequences would be disastrous. In time of war, foodstuffs and feeding ma- 
terials must be economized. To find feeding material sufficient to maintain cows 
in such a condition that they will provide a good supply of milk, implies a great 
deal of labor and also the importation of an amount of feeding material which is 
inconvenient when not impossible under war conditions. It is assuredly true that 
to consei-ve infant life, a certain supply of cow's milk is necessary, that is, in the 
existing state of affairs, when so many women do not suckle their offspring. But 
that, after the baby age is passed, milk is an absolutely essential article of diet, 
is strongly combated by many authorities. Campbell went so far as to declare that 
the child, as distinguished from the babe, does not need milk and would not suffer 
greatly if the supply of dairy milk suddenly failed. He argued, in the first place, 
that milk, affording as it does a peculiarly favorable soil for the growth of disease 
germs, has carried disease and death to hecatombs of children. It has further acted 
injuriously by favoring the consumption of soft, pappy foods. It is obvious that 
the infant, like the young of other mammals, requires milk for the first period of 
its life, and that the proper milk for it is that of its own mother. When this 
source of supply fails or is not available, as so frequently occurs in these days, 
resort must be had to the milk of other animals, cows or goats. This has not 
proved an unmixed blessing. . . . 

According to Campbell, while the infant needs milk of some kind during the 
first nine or ten months of life, it does not need any after that period. Why should 
the young of man any more than the young of other mammals, require milk after 
it has left the breast? It is only since man first domesticated the cow and goat 
. . . that he has been supplied with any milk other than human, and it is ab- 
surd to suppose that before that time his health suffered from the lack of cow's 
or goat's milk. The preagricultural tribes to this day are without any, and until 
civilized man deteriorated them by the intror^uction of alcohol and European vices, 
they were magnificent physical specimens of manhood. — " Dietotherapy," Fitch, 
Vol. II. p. 764. 



VEGETARIAN DIET WITHOUT DAIRY PRODUCTS 207 

a strictly vegetarian diet may be brought up to the 
standard of a diet that is complete in all food essentials 
and capable of properly nourishing the body. We do 
not wish to be taken as recommending it for general use. 
The value of milk and eggs, which would with the 
greatest difficulty be substituted, lies in the complete 
proteins contained. It has been made very evident that, 
with the proper use of fruits and vegetables, all essen- 
tial vitamines and salts can be freely supplied. But in 
milk are found not only vitamines and salts, but also a 
high content of complete protein, thus making in milk 
a so-called " protective food." The difficulty in plan- 
ning a diet without milk is in substituting its valuable 
protein. However, it seems that, with necessary knowl- 
edge and care, it is possible for it to be done. 

Vegetable Proteins 

Available proteins in the vegetable world are those 
of cereals, legumes, nuts, and leafy vegetables. Refer- 
ring to Chapter VI, pages 41-43, 62, we understand that 
cereal proteins are not complete, though some are more 
nearly so than others, and that the deficiency of one 
may be supplemented by the proteins of another. It is 
quite evident, therefore, that variation rather than mo- 
notony, is to be recommended in the dietetic use of 
cereal. 

It has been shown (page 44) that, dietetically speak- 
ing, the seeds of plants, which include the cereals and 
legumes, are lacking in certain food elements ; that while 
they are valuable sources of caloric food value, their 
supply of vitamines and mineral salts and complete pro- 
teins is too small to make it possible to depend upon 
them as the sole source of these essential elements. 
When the aleurone layer of whole-grain cereals is used, 
the proportion of vital food elements is greater. 



208 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

We have seen, too, that the shortcomings of the seeds 
are supplemented by the dietetic value of the leaves, 
the leaves being rich in the very things in which the 
seeds are lacking. This makes quite obvious the value 
of utilizing both the leaf and the seed in various com- 
binations. 

How to Combine Plant Foods 

The secret, then, of successfully utilizing plants in the 
making up of a complete diet is : First, to avoid mo- 
notony in the use of cereal, and to so vary and combine 
cereals that the proteins of one may supplement the pro- 
teins of the other, and to use the whole grain instead 
of the refined product ; second, to use, together with the 
" storage portion " of the vegetable (the root, tuber, 
and seed), a large amount of the "active respiring por- 
tion" (the leaf and the skin; see Chapter XII); and 
third, to re-enforce the vitamines, salts, and proteins of 
the vegetables, legumes, and grains with a free use of 
fruits and nuts. 

Nut Protein 

As to the value of nut protein, we quote the following : 
" Peanuts are unusual in containing a considerable pro- 
portion of protein along with both fat and carbohydrate. 
Water-soluble vitamine is also not lacking. Experts in 
the office of Home Economics at the United States De- 
partment of Agriculture have shown that the nutrients 
of peanuts are easily digested by man, Johns and Finks, 
of the same department, have given an added worth to 
the food by demonstrating convincingly the high physio- 
logic value of the peanut protein. ... Bread made with 
a mixture of 25 parts of peanut flour and 75 parts of 
wheat flour furnished adequate proteins for normal 
growth of experimental animals." — JouvTial A. M. A., 
Aug. 28, 1920. 



VEGETARIAN DIET WITHOUT DAIRY PRODUCTS 209 

And again : " The food chemist . . . has long given to 
the various .nuts a prominent place among concentrated 
foods. From his analj^tic standpoint, they may even sur- 
pass such recognizedly valuable foods as meats, eggs, 
and cereals in their concentration of nutrients. . . . 

" Experiments that were conducted by Cajori at Yale 
emphasized anew what has long been contended by Jaffa, 
of California, namely, that nuts are valuable foods 
judged by their behavior in digestion and metabolism. 
They point out that if nuts are eaten properly and used 
in the diet as eggs, meat, and other foods rich in pro- 
tein are eaten, they behave quite as well in the body as 
do the ordinary staple articles of food. . . . 

" Their protein is, in general, of a superior quality. 
... In experiments just conducted at Yale University, 
Cajori has secured very satisfactory growth over long 
periods in animals on diets in which the almond, Eng- 
lish walnut, filbert, and pine nut, respectively, furnished 
the essential source of protein in the ration. These pro- 
teins afford the necessary nitrogenous complexes for the 
elaboration of milk in the same species. From a study 
of the relations of diet to milk production in women, 
Hoobler pointed out, not long ago, that as a rule ani- 
mal proteins are more efficient than vegetable proteins 
for the elaboration of human milk. However, nut pro- 
teins were an exception to this generalization, in that 
diets containing almonds, English walnuts, pecans, and 
peanut butter as a source of protein, proved to be as 
suitable for milk production as diets that furnished pro- 
tein from animal sources. . . . 

Supplementary Foods 

" These observations indicate that nuts are sources of 
abundant quantities of water-soluble B vitamine. . . . 
Furthermore, the nuts are logical dietary supplements 
to many foods like cereals, roots, tubers, and fruits. 

14 



210 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

There's a reason, as we now have learned." — Journal 
A. M. A., Oct. SO, 1920. • ■ 

" The protein of almond meal was noted to have a 
' biologic value ' superior to that of wheat gluten." — 
Journal A. M. A., March 8, 1919. 

There is much work still to be done along these lines, 
but we can begin to see great possibilities in intelligent 
vegetable food combination. 

So now our food quartet (see page 220) is, fruits, 
vegetables, cereals, nuts, the nuts helping to take the 
place of the protein and fat of milk. However, we must 
not depend upon them to entirely take the place of the 
vitamines and the mineral content of milk. The leafy 
vegetables also are needed to supplement the dietary 
shortcomings of the legumes, so we see our dependence 
upon the leaves of vegetables in our meatless, milkless 
diet. 

Maintain Protein Standard 

The principle is this : We must depend upon whole 
cereals, legumes, and nuts for quantity of protein, and 
upon leafy vegetables and vegetable extracts to supple- 
ment the other protein as to quality. This is not at 
all discouraging when we read of the quality of nut 
protein. We should still bear in mind the necessity 
for at least 200 calories of protein. If this mini- 
mum is adhered to, with a free amount of vitamines 
and mineral salts, there need be little danger of insuffi- 
ciency in the total food supply. As protein, in nature, 
is ever combined with fat and carbohydrate, it becomes 
impossible to take 200 calories of protein without a 
goodly portion of energy food; for example, 15 calories 
of almond protein, if eaten in the almonds, carries with 
it 85 calories of almond fat, a concentrated nutriment. 
Twenty-five calories of legume protein means an accom- 
panying 75 calories of carbohydrates. Added carbohy- 



VEGETARIAN DIET WITHOUT DAIRY PRODUCTS 211 

drate food may ever be found in cereals, in fruits fresh, 
stewed, or dried, and additional concentrated fat in olives. 

Vegetable proteins never being supplied in a concen- 
trated form, the strict vegetarian, more than all others, ' 
must eat the very least amount of any artificial concen- 
trated energy food, as free fats, cane sugar, etc., for he 
has not the concentration of animal protein to maintain 
his balance of nitrogenous foods. 

So to summarize: 

1. Legumes, cereals, nuts, to make up necessary pro- 
tein calories. 

2. Leafy vegetables to supplement the above proteins, 
many of which otherwise would be incomplete. 

3. Fruits and leafy vegetables to supply vitamines. 

4. Fruits and leafy vegetables, with outer part of 
cereals, to furnish mineral salts. 

5. Cereals, legumes, nuts, fruits, and olives to supply 
necessary added calories. 

6. Energy food m unnatural concentration used with 
caution. 

Suggestive daily menus are given as follows: 

Sample Breakfasts 

Protein Total 

No. 1 Calories Calories 

Fruit Salad 13 181 

Nut Tomato Toast 33 205 

Whole-wheat Gems (2) 30 192 

Honey ( 2 teaspoons ) 50 

Celery and Broth 15 45 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 13iA. 

91 673 

For recipes, see Chapter XXXL 

There may, of course, be many variations in the fruit 
salad. The following is good: Cut up apples, bananas, 
oranges, add chopped nuts and raisins. A sweet dress- 
ing, if desired, may be made by adding honey to orange 
juice. Eat the celery raw. Cook the celery tops with 



212 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

a little onion and tomato, and serve the broth salted to 
taste as a hot drink. 

Protein Total 

No. 2 Calories Calories 

■ Grapefruit Salad 25 275 

Baked Oats with Pea Tomato Sauce 35 170 

Stuffed Dates (6) Stuffed with Almonds 20 250 

Orange Juice ( 7 oz. ) 7 100 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 11. 

87 795 

Make salad as given above, using almonds. Remove 
pulp from grapefruit and use grapefruit instead of 
orange. Add honey to grapefruit juice and use as dress- 
ing. Serve salad in grapefruit skin. (See recipe 76.) 
Add to a cup of oatmeal enough water to cover it, then 
salt. Let stand all night. In the morning bake slowly 
one hour. To two cups of pea puree, add a cup of strained 
tomato, salt to taste. Heat and serve over oatmeal. 

Protein Total 

No. 3 Calories Calories 

Whole Grapefruit with Honey 10 150 

Nut Tomato Rice with Lettuce 26 206 

Whole-wheat Sticks (4) (or gems) 14 144 

Stuffed Prunes (4) 12 100 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 11. • 

62 600 

Prepare grapefruit the evening before. Loosen the 
pulp and add a teaspoon of honey to each half. Pre- 
pare nut tomato sauce as for nut tomato toast and serve 
with boiled rice. Or for this dish may be substituted 
macaroni, boiled, then baked in the same sauce, (See 
recipes 54 and 55.) For stuffed prunes, prepare as for 
stuffed dates, using almonds or walnuts. 

Protein Total 

No. 4 Calories Calories 

Orange Juice (7 oz. ) 7 100 

Apple and Celery Salad 5 75 

English Walnuts (6) 20 200 

Cream Rolls (3) 18 126 

Hot Malted Nuts 27 150 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 12. — — 

77 651 



VEGETARIAN DIET WITHOUT DAIRY PRODUCTS 213 

To prepare hot malted nuts, see recipe 104. To make 
salad, dice one apple and add to two stalks of chopped 
celery. The walnuts may be chopped and added to 
salad, or may be served alone. Save celery tops for 
vegetable broth or soup. 

Protein Total 

No. 5 Calories Calories 

Orange Juice ( 7 oz. ) 7 100 

String Beans on Graham Toast (vegetable butter) 20 145 

Almonds (12) 35 200 

Banana 7 100 

Per cent of protein for meal, 13. 

69 545 

Protein Total 

No. 6 Calories Calories 

Orange Juice (7 oz. ) 7 100 

Corn Bread 18 130 

Vegetable Butter 50 

Protose and Potato Hash 50 150 

Asparagus ( large serving) 8 25 

Baked Apple 2 125 

English Walnuts 10 100 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 14. ■ 

95 680 

Make corn bread according to recipe 3. Vegetable 
butter can usually be procured at any grocery, under the 
name nut margarine. Make the protose and potato 
hash according to recipe 46. 

Protein Total 

No. 7 Calories Calories 

Fruit Salad with Lettuce 20 300 

Puree of Green Peas on Toast 29 150 

Whole-wheat Sticks (4) 14 144 

Hot Peanut Milk (6 oz.) 17 120 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 11. 

80 714 

This is a large fruit salad. To make each individual 
salad, use half a banana, an apple, an orange, three or 
four walnuts, and about ten raisins. Serve with lettuce. 
For the puree, use fresh peas, cook them, press through a 
colander, season with a little strained tomato. Salt to 
taste. Moisten zwieback in hot water, butter with vege- 



214 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

table butter, and cover with the puree. To make the pea- 
nut milk, emulsify a tablespoonful of peanut butter, add- 
ing water gradually up to six ounces. As the water is 
being added, stir in a third of a teaspoonful of honey. 

Sample Dinner Menus 

Protein Total 

No. 1 Calories Calories 

Bean Tomato Soup (8 oz.) 37 160 

Zwieback ( 2 ) 28 200 

Spinach (large serving) 15 50 

Browned Potatoes 18 150 

Carrot and Nut Salad 22 125 

Caramel Pudding 5 150 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 13. 

125 835 

Prepare soup stock according to recipe 25. To a pint 
of this soup stock, add a pint of strained tomato and 
two pints of bean puree. The water from the spinach 
may also be added. Make zwieback from whole-wheat 
bread. For browned potatoes, use recipe 59. For each 
individual salad, use one carrot grated and six almonds 
chopped. Add a French dressing. See recipe 86. For 
the caramel pudding, make a fruit sauce. See recipes 
107 and 93. 

Protein Total 

No. 2 Calories Calories 

Vegetable Bouillon 24 93 

Zwieback (2) 28 200 

Baked Puree of Lentils with Nut Tomato Sauce 50 200 

Mashed Turnips (3 tablespoons) 3 10 

Lettuce 3 10 

Farina Mold with Nuts and Raisins 35 269 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 19. 

143 782 

For bouillon, see recipe 23, but use broth from lentils 
instead of bean broth. Turnip water may also be sub- 
stituted for potato water. Cook one cup of lentils, 
drain well, press through a colander. Two tablespoons 
of grated onion and V2 cup of zwieback crumbs wet up 



VEGETARIAN DIET WITHOUT DAIRY PRODUCTS 215 

with tomato juice may be added. Salt to taste. Bake 
slowly in oven for 30 minutes. Any other legumes may 
be used instead of lentils. Serve with sauce made ac- 
cording to recipe 69. (See also recipe 58.) For farina 
mold, use recipe 92, but add to this a dozen nuts chopped 
and about four dozen raisins. 

Protein Total 

No. 3 Calories Calories 

Tomato Corn Soup 30 169 

Zwieback (2) 28 200 

Baked Lima Beans 32 150 

Mashed * Potatoes 10 106 

Cauliflower 7 12 

Combination Salad 7 35 

Stuffed Dates (4) 8 100 

Grape Juice (7 oz.) 2 100 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 14. • 

124 872 

For soup, add to one cup of potato soup stock one 
can of tomatoes strained and one can of corn (with or 
without pureeing). Thin with water from the cauli- 
flower. Salt to taste. Boil the Lima beans one hour, 
then place in oven and bake. Prepare potatoes early so 
that the broth from the skins may be added to the Lima 
beans when they are put in to bake. The beans will 
need no other seasoning than salt. 

Protein Total 

No. 4 Calories Calories 

Tomato Gluten Soup 23 103 

Zwieback (2) 28 200 

Braised Protose 49 110 

Beets with the Tops 8 40 

Stuffed Potatoes 15 150 

Celery (3 stalks) 5 20 

Olives (5) 5 100 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 18. • 

133 723 

For the soup, use two cans of tomatoes, strained. 
Add to this a pint or more of the water in which the 
beets are cooked. Salt to taste and thicken as desired 



216 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

with 20-per-cent gluten. (See also recipe 29.) Anj^ other 
vegetable water may be used instead of the beet broth, 
or simply the tomato may be used. For protose and 
stuffed potatoes, see recipes 44 and 61. 

Protein Totel 

No. 5 Calories Calories 

Protose and Potato Hash 50 150 

Baked Squash 3 43 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad 10 35 

Graham Bread 14 100 

Vegetable Butter 50 

Cereal Pudding 12 ' 275 

Orange Juice 5 75 

Almonds ( 6 ) 15 100 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 13. ■ • 

109 828 

For the hash, mix potatoes and protose in the pro- 
portion of three potatoes to one-half can of protose ; chop 
and mix thoroughly ; warm in an oiled pan or bake in a 
slow oven. Chopped onion may be added. (See also 
recipe 46.) Make the salad according to recipe 78 and 
serve with French dressing. 

Protein Total 

No. 6 Calories Calories 

Tomato Bisque 14 75 

Zwieback ( 2 ) 28 200 

Bean Croquettes ( 2 ) 58 238 

Spinach ( large serving ) 15 50 

Orange Jelly 2 97 

English Walnuts ( 4 ) 13 130 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 16. • 

130 790 

Make the tomato bisque, bean croquettes, and orange 
jelly according to lecipes 36, 40, and 100. 

Protein Total 

No. 7 Calories Calories 

Vegetarian Consomme 36 65 

Zwieback (2) 28 200 

Green Peas (4 tablespoons) 28 114 

Mashed Potatoes 15 150 

Lettuce and Carrot Salad 4 20 



VEGETARIAN DIET WITHOUT DAIRY PRODUCTS 217 

Almonds (C) 15 100 

Dates (4) 1 100 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 15. ■ 

127 749 

To make the vegetarian consomme, boil the potato 
skins ; strain, add the water in which the potatoes are 
cooked and the green pea water. Strain the contents of 
a can of tomatoes and add to the above. Care should be 
taken that the consomme is not too watery. This can 
be avoided by adding only enough water to the vege- 
tables to cook them and leave a concentrated broth. (See 
also recipe 37.) After the potatoes have been thoroughly 
mashed, add for seasoning a peanut cream made by 
emulsifying peanut butter in enough water to make it 
the consistency of milk or cream. 

The rather high protein percentage of the dinner 
menus, it may be noted, tends to balance the lower pro- 
tein content of the breakfast. For those who need more 
calories at a meal, the servings may be larger. If more 
protein is needed, the servings of the protein foods may 
be increased. There is still a third meal to be had, 
which may be made to furnish extra protein or energy 
food, as required. This third meal should be simple 
and include a goodly portion of fruit or of fruit and 
raw vegetable salad. In addition to this, a vegetable 
broth or soup may help to increase the valuable vege- 
table elements upon which we must to a great extent 
depend to take the place of milk. This, with Graham 
bread or zwieback, will be found very satisfactory. A 
half dozen almonds eaten with this meal will add 15 
calories of good protein. 

The above menus are only suggestive, and serve to 
show possibilities for satisfactory and nourishing meals 
without the use of dairy products. 



CHAPTER XXV 

PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK, AND THEIR 
APPLICATION IN ACUTE DISEASE 

Our aim in this chapter, and in those immediately 
following, is not in any sense to give a complete out- 
line of the diet in any of the many and varied forms of 
acute or chronic disease. Our space will not permit, 
neither do we feel that such an outline should be in- 
cluded within the scope of a book, the contents of 
which are suggested by a title such as has been given 
to this. The diet in any disease should be suggested by 
the physician in charge, along with lines of treatment 
other than dietetic. However, there are so many fads 
in connection with dietetic treatment of disease, and 
withal, such a woeful lack among mothers and house- 
wives, of a knowledge of scientific principles of feeding, 
even in the most common of ailments, that we do not 
feel that we are too greatly exceeding our bounds in 
showing how the principles of dietetics should be applied 
under conditions of sickness and ill health. We would 
seek to show that the principles are the same and the 
difference of application not great. The important, 
underlying principles of feeding, in sickness as well 
as in health, we believe, should be understood by every 
homekeeper. 

The Same Foods Needed in Sickness as in Health 

When a person is sick, it is quite as important as it 
is when he is well, that his body be supplied with all 
the food essentials. The great differences are, first, 
that, because of inactivity, his caloric needs are less; 
and, second, that the more or less weakened condition 

218 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 219 

of the digestive organs makes it necessary that his food 
be given him in a very easily digested form. 

As is well known, of all food elements, the body soon- 
est suffers from an insufficient supply of water, and 
this should always be supplied freely. 

Constant Food Essentials 

After this the fairly constant food essentials in health 
are, (1) vitamines, (2) mineral salts, and (3) proteins. 
The normal variation in the diet of any two individuals 
is in the amount of starch, sugar, and fat they may need 
to make up their total caloric food requirements, this 
being dependent upon their height, habits, and tissue 
activity. The enforced inactivity of the one who is sick 
automatically lessens his caloric food requirements, 
which obviously should mean a lowering of his intake of 
carbohydrates and fats, the strictly energy foods. 

Vitamines, Salts, Protein 

Vitamines, with their vitalizing power, he may need 
even more than in health ; of mineral salts, with their 
alkalizing properties (see Chapter X), he has an espe- 
cial need, for ever in sickness the body tends toward a 
condition of acidity, making it more difficult for it to 
maintain its normal degree of alkalinity; and of protein, 
the tissue restorer, he cannot be long without, because 
of the extra tissue waste so often accompanying the 
process of disease. The supply of carbohydrates and 
fats needed depends upon the length of the illness, the 
power of the patient to digest and assimilate food, and 
the degree of the body and tissue activity. 

Food in What Form? 

The kinds of food required having been decided upon, 
the form in which the food is to be given is of great 
importance, and this depends upon the ease with which 



220 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

the patient is able to digest food. As a rule, however, 
food, simply prepared, not too rich, and of a kind and 
form that is easily digested, is the best. The likes and 
dislikes of the patient should be considered and should 
have an influence in so far as they do not affect the 
healthfulness of his food and the good that he may de- 
rive from it. It is well known that other things being 
equal, the keener the relish for food, the greater the 
good the system is able to get from it. 

The Food Quartet 

In all cases of feeding, it is important that the follow- 
ing foods be included in the dietary: (1) Fruits, (2) 
vegetables, (3) milk, (4) cereals. With this simple 
quartet it is possible to furnish a well-balanced ration, 
whether the one who eats be sick or well. If any one 
of the four be lacking, the diet is open to question, and 
should be carefully investigated. With every individual 
patient we may be called upon to feed, we are to ex- 
amine his diet with reference to these four foods. Are 
they included in his dietary? If not, why not? This is 
not to say that the diet of every acutely sick person 
should include all of these, for there are cases where, 
for a very short period, nothing perhaps, not even water, 
should be allowed to enter the stomach, as in some cases 
of acute appendicitis, where, for any reason, operation 
is delayed; and, as has been said in Chapter XXII, there 
are times and conditions of auto-intoxication, acuts or 
chronic, where complete absence of food for a few days 
may result in great benefit. 

Colds 

In short, acute illnesses, as in colds, tonsillitis, etc., a 
diet limited for a short time to fruit juices, or to fruit 
juices and vegetable broths, with the vitamines and min- 
eral salts thus supplied, may be the very best that can 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 221 

be planned ; but whenever the invalid state becomes at 
all protracted, a thorough study should be made to de- 
termine whether or not there are being given all the 
food elements necessary to keep the body in the best 
possible state of nutrition, and thus hasten recovery. 

In what forms, then, shall the foregoing foods — 
fruits, vegetables, milk, and cereals — be supplied to the 
acutely ill person? What is the order of their impor- 
tance as regards the body need and ability to utilize 
them under the stress of illness? 

Fruit Juices 

Fruit juices are of the utmost importance in the feed- 
ing of the sick. First, they are a help in supplying the 
large amount of water so often needed. Second, they 
are rich in vitamines, without a free supply of which 
the body would often be unable to cope successfully with 
disease. Third, they furnish, in spite of their naturally 
acid properties, certain alkalinizing salts (see Chapter 
X), which help to maintain the normal reaction of the 
blood against the excess of acid wastes that so often, in 
illness, rapidly accumulate. Fourth, they contain actual 
caloric food value, in a predigested form, and easily as- 
similated. Fifth, the fruit acid is a natural disinfectant 
and cleanser, and also stimulates normal peristaltic ac- 
tion, thus helping to prevent a stagnant condition of 
the digestive tract. 

In many an illness, if not too protracted, a patient 
may be carried through on a diet of fruit juices. In 
this way a caloric intake of from six hundred to one 
thousand calories daily can easily be given, and this in 
the form of dextrose, which imposes no tax on the di- 
gestive powers, but being quickly picked up by the blood 
stream and at once utilized in the tissues, acts as the 
natural stimulant the body so much needs. Fruit juices 



222 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

should be first thought of when, for any reason, a pa- 
tient's diet needs to be greatly restricted, and unless 
there be some special contraindication, should be in- 
cluded, no matter how much other food he may be able 
to take. It is better not to add sugar to these juices. 

Vegetable Broths 

Ranking with fruit juices in their importance, and 
making a most valuable addition to the aforementioned 
diet, are vegetable broths. These furnish, first, vita- 
mines, thus re-enforcing the vitamines supplied by the 
fruit juices, and in case the fruit juices are for any 
reason not being given, may be made of themselves to 
supply a sufficient quantity of these life-giving ferments. 

Second, they supply mineral salts, and these, seem- 
ingly in greater quantities and in more varied forms 
than fruit juices do. They furnish such important min- 
eral elements as calcium, iron, phosphorus, and potas- 
sium, which not only work with the fruit juices in main- 
taining body alkalinity, but also enter largely into the 
formation of body tissues. (See Chapter X.) 

Third, a certain amount of protein is also furnished 
by vegetable broths, the amount being dependent on its 
preparation. A cup of vegetable broth, made after 
recipe 24, may contain 19 protein calories to a total of 
46 calories, or 41 per cent protein. This gives an added 
value of very greatest importance, because of the great 
need in sickness of tissue-building food, and the neces- 
sity for supplying it in an easily assimilated form. 

The proteins of vegetable broths are complete (see 
Chapter VI), and furnishing as they do the important 
trio, vitamines, mineral salts, and complete proteins, 
they supply to the body in a form most easily utilized, 
the food elements essential for sustaining life. Used in 
connection with fruit juices, with the added carbohy- 
drate content of the fruit juices, they furnish to the 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 223 

acutely sick patient, whose vital powers must all be used 
in fighting disease, the first and perhaps the only essen- 
tial foods necessary to carry the fight to a victorious 
finish. In some cases, when the stomach is irritable, 
or when it seems best to limit the peristaltic activity of 
the bowel, as after abdominal surgery, vegetable broths 
may be taken better for a time than fruit juices. Veg- 
etable broths alone may sustain the patient for many 
days, fruit juices being added as soon as the patient 
can take them. 

The value of these vegetable juices has not been fully 
appreciated, but should be well understood by every one 
having anything to do with the feeding of the sick. 
They should in some form have a place in every invalid 
dietary, and in some acute conditions may be the only 
food a patient can take. (See recipes in Chapter XXXI.) 

Additional Calories 

Our patient, then, during the height of his acute ill- 
ness, has had supplied to him through the medium of 
fruit juices and vegetable broths the vital trio, — vita- 
mines, mineral salts, and complete proteins, — ^but as the 
days go by it should be remembered that such a limited 
diet has been only for an emergency, and that he soon 
must have additional calories supplied him, especially 
in the way of protein. Otherwise, his system will suf- 
fer for want of sufficient protein food to take the place 
of excessive body waste. His total calories must also 
be increased. 

Importance of Milk 

Therefore, the food next in importance, and one which 
should be added as soon as possible, is milk. Milk is a 
food of great value. It supplies, first, protein, and that 
in the form of complete protein; second, fat in an emul- 



224 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

sified form, the form in which fat is most easily di- 
gested ; third, carbohydrate in the form of milk sugar ; 
fourth, mineral salts ; fifth, vitamines. Because of the 
completeness of its food content, milk has been called a 
protective food. (See Chapters XIV and XXVIII.) 

Boiled Milk 

The sooner milk can be added to the diet of the pa- 
tient, the sooner will it be possible for the body to be 
restored to its normal state. But milk often makes 
trouble. In its raw state it is sometimes difficult of 
digestion. Because of the large curds which form in 
the stomach as a result of the action of the gastric juice 
on the milk, it must be considered a solid food. For 
this reason many invalids who need the food value of 
milk seem unable to take it well. But it must be re- 
membered that milk can be taken in several different 
forms. Milk can be changed from a solid food, compar- 
atively difficult of digestion, to a relatively liquid, easily 
digested food, by boiling. Milk that has been boiled 
forms in the stomach fine, flaky curds. These fine curds 
are nonirritating and easily mixed with the gastric juice. 
It is true that we must consider a certain deterioration 
in the vitamine content due to the heating of the milk, 
but if the milk is fresh and boiled not longer than three 
minutes, and served soon after boiling, this deterioration 
is slight. At any rate, because of the abundance of vita- 
mines supplied the invalid in the way of fruit juices and 
vegetable broths, we need have no fear as to his getting 
enough of this valuable element. The protein, fat, and 
carbohydrates of boiled milk are quite as valuable as that 
in raw milk and are in a form that can be well cared 
for, even by one with a weak digestion. The boiling of 
the milk greatly increases the digestibility of its protein. 

That part of milk often the most difficult of digestion 
is fat. Therefore, skim milk is a simpler, more easily 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 225 

digested food than whole milk, and in some cases when 
milk is first given it is well to give it as skim milk, 
gradually adding the cream later. Often in cases of 
severe illness, as in fevers, the diet problem may be 
solved by the use of the three foods, fruit juices, vege- 
table broths, and boiled skim milk, the skim milk sup- 
plementing the low-protein content of the first two. 
The added food value of the fat in the actual calories 
which it contains may mean much in protracted illness, 
and the cream of the milk should be given, if it in no 
way interferes with the utilization of the other foods. 
However, it must be borne in mind that in acute ill- 
nesses, fevers and infections, fat is usually not well 
borne, and often, for a time at least, has to be excluded 
from the diet. 

Buttermilk 

Buttermilk is a very good form in which to give milk. 
It supplies all the elements except the fat, and the 
lactic acid content of the milk tends to inhibit intestinal 
putrefaction. 

Cereal 

Our simplest steps having been enumerated, we have 
reached the last mentioned of our essential food quar- 
tet, that is, cereal. In cereal we have a valuable means 
of adding caloric food value. By this addition we are 
able to bring our patient's daily ration up to the total 
food value needed to overcome his more or less ema- 
ciated condition and restore him to health and strength. 
That cereal has a distinctive food value of its own, apait 
from simply its calories, cannot be gainsaid, for it has 
been shown that babies have often gained in weight 
when cereal has been added to their diet, even though 
the addition of the cereal has been, to a large extent, 
substitution and not necessarily an increase in the total 
calories. 

15 



226 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

But in what form should cereal be given to one whose 
digestive organs have been weakened by illness? Dex- 
trinized cereals, or cereals in which the starch has been 
changed to dextrin, the first step in starch digestion, are 
the best. Dextrinized cereal may be made into gruels, 
as corn-flake gruel, wheat-flake gruel, shredded-wheat 
gruel; or it may be given as zwieback, dry, or as milk 
toast. Gruels may also be made from nondextrinized 
cereals, as oatmeal, cream of wheat, rice, and others, if 
they are sufficiently well cooked. After thorough cook- 
ing, they should be strained, properly thinned, usually 
with the addition of milk, not cream. Evaporated milk 
may often be added to these cereal gruels, with pleasing 
results and without the disadvantages of cream. Zwie- 
back (oven toast) is often the first solid food well 
borne. It may be allowed very early with vegetable 
broth, or with boiled milk. 

Other Foods 

When our acutely sick patient has reached the place 
where these forms of the essential food quartet — fruits, 
as fruit juices; vegetables, as vegetable broths; milk, as 
boiled, skim, or buttermilk ; cereals, as zwieback or dex- 
trinized gruels — can be given him, his diet possibilities 
are complete, and the only other forms of foods that 
we need to consider for him are the various combina- 
tions and the more solid varieties of these same four 
foods. 

To his fruit juices may be added the fruits themselves, 
it ever being remembered that stewed and dried fruits, 
while good for furnishing calories, can never be made to 
quite take the place of fresh fruits or juices. To the 
vegetable broths may be added the vegetables, first as 
soups and purees, then as the more tender vegetables. 
Baked potatoes, asparagus tips, spinach, tomatoes, tender 
green peas, and others may be gradually added. Milk 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 227 

may be combined with vegetable purees to make appetiz- 
ing cream soups. With boiled milk may be allowed some 
raw milk, if the patient prefers and if he can take it 
well. Cottage cheese is a valuable form in which to 
supply milk protein. It may be served as cottage cheese 
omelet (see recipe 48) ; or it may be served with cream, 
thus making its food value approximate that of whole 
milk. Eggs, though not mentioned as one of the four 
essential foods, find their place here, and may take their 
turn with milk, preferably soft boiled or poached. 

Instead of limiting the cereal part of his food simply 
to cereals and zwieback, we may allow him a piece of 
bread (thirty-six hours old) and we may venture for 
him a bit of breakfast mush. However, as long as he 
remains an invalid, even though a convalescent one, it 
must be remembered that he can take more calories in 
the form of zwieback and gruel than in the form of 
bread or mush, because of the greater ease to digest 
the first-mentioned form of foods. 

As he becomes a convalescent, his total calories must 
be brought up to the amount necessary to restore him 
to his normal weight and strength. The wasted patient 
will need extra protein calories to restore tissue. These 
may well be supplied in milk, eggs, cottage cheese, al- 
monds (if well masticated), gluten gruel, whole-wheat 
bread, vegetable soup in which skins and leaves of vege- 
tables are utilized, and in purees of legumes, as Lima 
beans, green peas, etc., and for those who feel that they 
must have it, a moderate amount of the least harmful 
meat, as mutton, lamb, and chicken. Extra calories for 
energy and to replace wasted fatty tissue may be sup- 
plied, not only in connection with the aforementioned 
foods, but also as sweets in the form of honey, meltose, 
dates, and other dried and stewed fruits, as prunes, figs, 
apple sauce, and baked apple. 



228 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

Free Fat 

Fat, the most concentrated food, is best furnished in 
milk with its cream, in olives, and in nuts. Free fat 
should be used sparingly in all cases of illness, for non- 
emulsified fat is ever a deterrent to digestion. During 
the acute stage of illness, no cream (except as given in 
whole milk), butter, or other free fats should be allowed. 
In some cases, milk may be taken if partly or wholly 
skimmed, when the addition of the cream might make it 
impossible for the patient to utilize the milk. 

In convalescence, whole milk should be given, if pos- 
sible, and in sonie cases some extra cream may be added. 
This, however, should be done carefully. The number 
of calories needed daily must depend upon the needs of 
the patient, the degree of emaciation, his activity, and 
his ability to care for the food ingested. 

It should ever be borne in mind that only food prop- 
erly digested can be utilized. The more easily digested 
the food, the more calories will the patient be able to 
care for; and if overeating is bad in health, it is surely 
worse in disease. 

The above-mentioned foods do not cover all the foods 
that may be allowed the invalid in every case, but the 
outline forms a working basis which may serve as a 
check-up on the dietary essentials, and to these may be 
added other things as the patient desires and seems able 
to take. 

Questionable Foods 

Foods questionable in health, should, of course, not be 
allowed in disease, and dishes should ever be prepared 
wit'i due regard for simplicity, both as to the individual 
dish and the variety served at one time. During the 
height of the illness one dish, as fruit juice, a vegetable 
broth, a soup, or a gruel, should be served at a time; 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 229 

while during convalescence a simple variety of two or 
three simple dishes is often better than a greater num- 
ber of foods served at the same meal. 

Frequency of Feeding 

While the patient is able to take only a liquid diet, 
it is usually necessary to feed him more frequently, — 
sometimes every two hours, or even oftener, dependent 
upon the amount taken at one time. If his diet is lim- 
ited to fruit juices or vegetable broths, these may be 
given freely as often as every half hour. It should be 
remembered that no rule can be given that will hold 
good in every case, and that there are exceptions to all 
rules. However, with a working knowledge of dietetics, 
and of the principles as outlined in this chapter, the 
problems of feeding the sick are greatly simplified, and 
the resources of the one bearing the responsibility 
greatly increased. And without a knowledge of these 
principles a given diet for any given disease may be all 
wrong for an individual patient, for we must feed the 
patient and not the disease. 

Practical Application 

So, if Mary has a cold, increase her vitamines, lessen 
her calories, and give her only the simplest food. For 
twenty-four to forty-eight hours (some cases longer), 
limit her to orange juice with lemon and other fruit 
juices, and vegetable broths. Then add boiled milk and 
hot milk toast, or cream soup (see recipes. Chapter 
XXXI) with hard toast. See that she has water freely. 
After this, and until her cold has quite disappeared, 
allow her only the dextrinized cereals, milk from which 
all or part of the cream has been removed, fruits, and 
vegetables. Limit her butter, and let her sweets be only 
those natural sweets found in the fruit she eats. 



230 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

Measles, Scarlet Fever, Influenza 

On this program her cold will quickly disappear, but 
if her cold proves to be the initial stage of measles, 
scarlet fever, or influenza, the dietetic program instituted 
puts her in the best possible condition to combat the 
disease. As the disease progresses, continue the free 
use of fruit juices and vegetable broths, and in addition 
to this, such other of the simple foods already mentioned 
as necessary to maintain her proper nourishment. 

Her vital forces being engaged in combating the on- 
slaught of infection, her food must all be such as will 
place the least added tax on her digestive powers. Nec- 
essary added nourishment may for a long period be 
given in boiled milk, with or without the addition of 
zwieback or other dextrinized cereal ; or in the form of 
corn-flake or wheat-flake gruel ; or a combination of milk 
with vegetable puree to make a vegetable soup. In ad- 
dition to liberal amounts of fruit juice, some solid fruit 
may be given if desired, as scraped apple or soft pear. 
It is very important that ivater he given in ample 
amounts. 

Typhoid Fever 

The same principle of feeding applies to the grown-up. 
If some member of the family be so unfortunate as to 
contract typhoid fever, or a case of influenza is pro- 
longed into the so-called typhoid type, again we have 
the same proposition before us, that of supplying, over 
this protracted period, an abundance of vitamines, min- 
eral salts, and complete proteins, with enough of other 
easily digested food to prevent depression of the vital 
forces by the undue wasting of the disease. 

If the patient is to stand well the siege of typhoid 
fever, he must be properly nourished, and again our diet 
list reads: Fruit juices and vegetable broths freely; 
boiled milk, buttermilk, vegetable soup, cereal gruels. 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 231 

most often the dextrinized cereals, as corn-flake and 
shredded-wheat gruel. So little being taken at a time, 
the meals must be frequent, with free supply of fruit 
and vegetable juices in between the times for more con- 
centrated food. In fevers, meat is especially difficult of 
digestion because of the lack in the stomach of the nor- 
mal hydrochloric acid upon which meat digestion in the 
stomach depends. Because of this deficiency in the di- 
gestive juice, as well as the general weakness of all the 
organs, digestion is necessarily much retarded. The 
inhibitory action of free fat upon the digestive processes 
is another reason why free fat should not be given 
these patients.' (See Chapter VII.) 

Bilious Attack 

Perhaps some member of the family has a digestive 
upset, a bilious attack, with foul breath, coated tongue, 
headache, with or without diarrhea. The alimentary 
tract being already overburdened, the problem of the 
food supply resolves itself into the question of giving the 
stomach and bowel a chance to clear themselves of stag- 
nant material, without the added task of digesting more 
food which could not well be utilized. So once more we 
give our patient plenty of water, with fruit juices 
freely, limiting his diet to these for perhaps twenty- 
four or forty-eight hours, when, with other treatment 
directed for the relief of the overwhelmed digestive 
tract, the symptoms are relieved. 



CHAPTER XXVI 

PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK AS APPLIED 
IN CHRONIC CONSTITUTIONAL DISEASES 

Fitch says that '* chronic diseases are chiefly the out- 
come of injudicious or pleasurable indulgence at the 
table." ^ If this be even to an extent true, it suggests 
the thought that in the treatment of such diseases the 
dietetic program can play no unimportant role. 

But how shall the principles of feedirrg be applied in 
chronic disease? This is often a great problem, for the 
very chronicity of the disease makes it all the more im- 
portant that the patient be daily supplied with all the 
food essentials and with sufficient calories to maintain 
his strength and normal weight. 

Study the Patient's Diet 

The first thing to do is to study the diet of the indi- 
vidual, and see wherein there are deficiencies. Is he get- 
ting an abundance of vitamines? Does his daily ration 
include an ample supply of mineral salts? Is he getting 
enough protein and of the proper kind? If he is a vic- 
tim of a wasting disease, how much does his ration lack 
of that amount necessary to prevent further wasting, 
or, if possible, to build the extra tissue needed to restore 
that which has been lost? How many calories is he 
getting daily? And is he maintaining his weight, gain- 
ing in weight, or continually losing? In many cases all 
we can hope to do is to keep him from losing more. If 
he suffers a progressive loss of weight that continues 
indefinitely, he stands no chance of recovery unless the 
tide can be turned in the other direction. But if he is 



' " Dietotherapy," Vol. HI, p. 4. 
232 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 233 

to recover, at some time his diet must be increased to 
the amount necessary, not only to maintain, but grad- 
ually to increase his weight. 

Weigh the Patient 

Whenever possible the patient should be v^^eighed at 
regular intervals, for this should tell us as much, and 
be as valuable an aid, as in the feeding of infants, where 
we so regularly weigh our little patients. If, because 
of weak digestion or other reasons, his calories must, of 
necessity, bs low, let the deficiency be in carbohydrates 
and fats, rather than too greatly in proteins, and let the 
diet include an abundance of those essential foods that 
make it possible for the body to put up a good fight. 

In What Form Should He Take His Food? 

Make a list of the foods which should be given him, 
including the food quartet mentioned in Chapter XXV, 
and determine the form in which he can most easily 
digest them. For example, must his fruits be limited to 
the juices, or may he be allowed the whole fruit? Must 
his vegetable essentials be given as broths and purees, 
or can he take the vegetables themselves? In what 
form will he most easily digest cereal, and how should 
he take his milk — boiled, skimmed, as whole milk, but- 
termilk, junket, or cottage cheese? May he be allowed 
eggs as well? 

If Obese or in Good Flesh 

If the patient is obese and may well afford to lose 
flesh, reduce in carbohydrates and fat calories, remem- 
bering that these may be varied safely, but beware of 
any great reduction in his protein calories, lest his tissue 
and muscle suffer loss. Remember that a daily protein 
ration of 200 calories is a low protein ration, the Chit- 
tenden standard of 200 to 300 calories, rather than 
the Voit standard of 400 to 600 calories. Do not for- 



234 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

get that much less than this minimum of 200 calories 
cannot safely be maintained for more than a short pe- 
riod, and that often 250 calories would be better. Re- 
member that vitamines are needed the more if for any 
reason the protein must be low, and that mineral salts 
must be freely supplied to overcome the often decreased 
alkalinity of such individuals. 

Two Types 

We have seen that in their systemic response to die- 
tetic error, there are two classes of individuals, and this 
leads us to the possibility of dividing chronic constitu- 
tional disease into two great classes. (See Chapters III 
and IV.) 

First, the auto-intoxication type includes all those con- 
ditions due to imperfect digestion ; second, the suboxi- 
dation type, those conditions in which, because of a good 
digestion, the results of wrong eating are not felt until 
the food has left the digestive tract and has been ab- 
sorbed into the bloo:l stream. Undoubtedly the two 
types often overlap, and an extreme condition of one 
type is impossible without some of the conditions typical 
of the other. As for instance, stagnation in the diges- 
tive tract cannot exist to any extent without hindrance 
to normal conditions of oxidation and metabolism in the 
tissues ; nor can an extreme state of suboxidation be 
present without some degree of interference with the 
digestive activities, whether in the stomach, intestines, 
or liver, and some amount of accompanying intestinal 
toxemia. However, individuals usually approximate 
closely enough to type to allow us to place them, and 
this classification gives us a convenient basis for dietetic 
treatment. 

The First Type 

In the auto-intoxication type, we see the thin, long- 
waisted, dyspeptic, catarrhal, constipated individual — 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 235 

nervous, neurasthenic, despondent, often classed as a 
nervous dyspeptic. His digestive disturbances are many, 
and he is afraid to eat, for everything- produces fermen- 
tation and distress, and if perchance he is able to eat, 
it seems that the more he eats, the thinner he gets. 
These individuals are almost invariably on a deficient 
diet, whether they eat little or much. A careful inves- 
tigation of their diet will undoubtedly show that it is 
deficient in vitamines, deficient in mineral salts, deficient 
in protein, even though, at times, excessive in calories. 
After a time, however, their diet also becomes deficient 
in total calories, because, as a result of the devitalized 
diet and condition, the digestive tract becomes less and 
less able to do its work. But whatever stage these indi- 
viduals have reached, the first thought for them must 
be to add to their diet those foods that will supply vita- 
mines, mineral salts, and complete proteins. 

He Must Have Fruit 

In many cases, these persons do not think they can 
take fruit — but fruit they must have. Let them ven- 
ture fruit in the form of fruit juices taken an hour or 
half an hour before meals, or at bedtime. In this way 
fruit juices can almost invariably be taken without caus- 
ing trouble, and may save the day, even if fruit cannot 
be taken in any other form. However, these patients 
will often find it possible to take fruit at mealtime, if 
they take it alone as the only food at the meal, — for 
example, a fruit breakfast or a fruit supper, — or if 
they eat it at the beginning of the meal before other 
food has been taken. 

Vegetable Broths Have a Medicinal Value 

Fruit deficiency can to an extent be made up by a 
free use of vegetable broths. These can be used freely 
at mealtime, as bouillon, in vegetable soup, and can be 
taken as a drink between meals. . At least a pint of 



236 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

fruit juice or of vegetable broth — better, both and more 
— should be taken daily. Fruit juices and Vegetable 
broths taken freely will soon show a marked beneficial 
effect on the constipation so constant with this type of 
individual, thus removing one of the most potent fac- 
tors in the cause of his ill health. 

His Protein Ration 

Let us next look to his protein. Is he getting 200 or 
250 calories of protein daily? These patients particu- 
larly need an ample protein ration, but often we hear 
them say : " I cannot take milk." All right, let them 
try taking boiled milk, and great will be their surprise 
to find that the fine, easily digested curds of boiled milk 
cause no trouble, and the system soon responds to the 
stimulus of the protein nourishment for which they have 
been starved so long. These patients have often been 
afraid of eggs. Some one has told them that eggs will 
make them bilious, but if vitamines are freely sup- 
plied, the extra tax of digesting an egg or two daily 
will usually be well borne, especially as they supply much- 
needed protein. The yolk of the egg also supplies iron 
and a goodly amount of vitamine. Cottage cheese, an 
excellent protein food, is usually well borne by every 
one. It may be served plain or with cream or as cottage 
cheese omelet. (See recipe 48.) Buttermilk is valuable, 
and if taken with a spoon instead of being drunk as an 
ordinary liquid, it usually will cause no trouble. Vege- 
table soups, made from recipes in Chapter XXXI, are 
valuable protein additions, and the more tender leafy 
vegetables, as cauliflower, spinach, etc., can be taken, 
with their protein, mineral, and vitamine value. Refer- 
ence to calorie tables (see Appendix) makes compara- 
tively easy the calculation of the amount of protein 
taken, which, as has been said, should be not less than 
200 calories; more, 'in many cases, would be better, 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 237 

Ho\sr to Gain in Weight 

The vitamines, mineral salts, and proteins being sup- 
plied, the question of calories must next be considered. 
The thin individual needs more than enough to maintain 
his weight and strength if he is to gain flesh, but he 
will do well for a time to content himself with a main- 
tenance ration until his digestive organs, under the new 
regime, have attained greater strength and his system 
is free from all accumulated wastes. By watching his 
calories daily and the scales weekly or biweekly, it is 
possible to find the maintenance diet. How little can he 
eat and not lose? 

After a short time, to his maintenance diet may be 
carefully added extra calories in the way of such concen- 
trated foods as olives, dates, prunes, nuts well masti- 
cated. Begin perhaps with six olives three times daily, 
or three dates and three almonds at each meal ; or 
prunes for breakfast, almonds for dinner, dates for sup- 
per, in addition to his previous regular dietary schedule. 

Cereals in various forms help to make up necessary 
calories and, if whole cereals, they supply some mineral 
salts and a limited amount of vitamines as well, and 
should be taken as hard toast, dextrinized cereals, and 
gruels. Browned rice (see recipe 21) is easily digested. 

In the initial dietary treatment, these patients gain 
nothing by eating cream, butter, and olive oil. These 
foods often hinder the digestion to the extent that the 
patient does not get the full benefit of any of the food 
he eats. Later, however, cream may be taken by some, 
and if well borne, is a valuable means of adding cal- 
ories in concentrated form. It can very easily, however, 
be overdone; and at all times, butter and oils should be 
used very sparingly, as they are ever a hindrance to 
digestion, and tend to increase the general catarrhal 
conditions to which these individuals are often suscep- 
tible. (See page 52.) 



238 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

In checking up, let the patient note whether or not 
his diet includes each of the four kinds of foods men- 
tioned as the important quartet in Chapter XXV. He 
must be getting fruits, either as fruit juices or as fruits 
eaten alone, or at the first of the meal ; vegetables, as 
broths, soups, leafy vegetables, including, if possible, 
some raw vegetable daily. He must be getting milk or 
other dairy product, as boiled milk, buttermilk, cottage 
cheese, or eggs; and cereals, as oven toast, gruels, stale 
bread, rarely mushes. 

It is quite possible for his diet to include all of the 
above foods in some of their forms, and if they are in- 
cluded, and if the proportion of fruits and fruit juices, 
vegetables and vegetable broths, is ample, his diet is 
complete and he has taken a great step toward the sur- 
mounting of his physical difficulties. And let him re- 
member that, whatever he eats, he must chew, chew, 
chew. 

To summarize then: The point is, for this thin dys- 
peptic to have supplied to him freely the essential foods; 
find his maintenance diet as to calories, and after two 
or three weeks, gradually push his calories beyond his 
maintenance diet until he gains in weight. But let him 
remember that often a decrease in diet, with a cutting 
out of his excess of butter, must come before it will be 
possible for him to add to his diet the extra calories 
necessary for Jiim to gain his desired iveight. 

An initial loss of a pound or two during the first 
week may be an advantage. It is often a help in finding 
the maintenance diet, and can soon be followed by a 
satisfatcory gain. 

Gastric Ulcer 

Cases of gastric ulcer usually occur in persons of 
this type, and with a few modifications, the feeding 
principles are the same. With these the condition of 
irritation in the stomach has progressed to the extent 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 239 

that the mucous membrane has become abraded, and 
an ulcer has formed. All food taken, then, must be 
in a bland, demulcent form, which will soothe rather 
than increase the irritation. Accordingly, those usually 
best taken are cereal gruels from which all cellulose has 
been removed, boiled milk, cream, soft eggs, with de- 
pendence upon vegetable broths rather than upon fruit 
juices for vitamines and salts. Vegetable broths should 
be given freely. Later, vegetable purees, baked potato, 
subacid fruits, and fruit juices. Fruit juices may in 
many cases be allowed, carefully, from the first. It 
should ever be remembered that the proper nourishment 
of the individual is an important factor in the produc- 
tion of a cure. 

Constipation 

Constipation being so characteristic of this type of 
individual, we cannot forbear giving it a word in pass- 
ing, though it would be impossible for us to dwell at 
length upon a subject about which so much might be 
said. However, this we will say: If an individual's 
daily ration is well balanced, containing a sufficient 
amount of vitamines in the way of fresh fruits and veg- 
etables, and if he does not overeat, he seldom needs to 
be troubled with constipation. Overeating is often a 
cause of constipation. Constipation is a phase of intes- 
tinal indigestion, and is often due primarily to the pack- 
ing of the intestinal tract with an excessive amount of 
concentrated food, making it impossible for the muscula- 
ture of the intestinal wall to properly do its work in mix- 
ing the food and passing it on in a normal length of 
time. If the bowel is not crowded with too concentrated 
a mass of food, there need be no resulting constipation. 
Cellulose is helpful in that it gives bulk that is light 
and without concentration, and the gentle stimuli of the 
vitamine foods are also needed to insure normal peris- 
taltic activity. 



240 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

A free amount of fruit in the daily diet may be con- 
sidered absolutely essential to good bowel drainage. 
(See Chapter XI.) If, after planning a carefully bal- 
anced ration which furnishes proper nourishment and 
does not overcrowd the digestive tract, the individual is 
constipated, it usually means that he needs more fresh 
fruit. A glass or two of fruit juice, orange juice rank- 
ing first, between meals or at bedtime, in addition to a 
free amount of fruit taken with at least one meal of 
the day, will usually solve the difficulty. 

Some Foods Too Irritating 

The cellulose of fruit and vegetables and whole-wheat 
bread is usually suflftcient without bran, so commonly 
used, which in many cases is irritating to the sensitive 
mucous lining of the digestive tract. In cases of long- 
standing constipation resulting in a sore, irritable, and 
oftentimes contracted bowel, the stagnant condition can 
best be combated by a bland diet, complete as to food 
essentials, but with a minimum of the coarser, more 
irritating foods, such as vegetable cellulose and even 
fruit fiber. In some of these cases the laxative effect of 
fruit juices must be relied upon, the cellulose of the 
fruit not being well borne at first, but added a little 
later. Vegetable broths, soups, purees, and the more 
tender vegetables may be used, eschewing the coarser 
variety. These cases are only made worse by anything 
producing an irritating effect, as bran, or even the 
mild laxatives. 

Boiled milk, contrary to the popular opinion, is not 
constipating, but in long-standing cases of constipation 
it is much less liable to cause intestinal indigestion than 
raw milk. (See page 267.) Whole-grain cereals are 
more laxative in their effect than the refined variety, 
and whether these should be taken as mushes, gruels, 
bread, or oven toast, depends upon the individual. 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 241 

Too Much Cereal 

It should be remembered that a preponderance of any 
cereal in the diet tends to constipation because of an 
excess of concentrated food, and that the lighter dex- 
tiinized cereals move with greater ease through the di- 
gestive canal. It is also important to know that in cases 
of iriitable contracted bowel, whether simply the ca- 
tarrhal stage of chronic constipation or the more extreme 
condition known as mucous colitis, gruels, because of 
their bland, demulcent action, are much to be preferred 
to mushes. Gruels should always be eaten slowly, pref- 
erably with hard toast. Prunes, dates, and figs have a 
mild laxative action. 

It is needless to say that tea, coffee, condiments, and 
spices should be avoided. 

Respiration Troubles 

A tendency to catarrh, frequent colds, bronchitis, etc., 
in both old and young, may be greatly relieved if not 
ent'iely cured, by careful attention to the diet as out- 
I'ned for the auto-intoxication type of individual. Vita- 
mines and other necessary food elements being freely 
supplied, excess of fats and sugars being eliminated, and 
constipation being overcome, the individual will often be 
surprised at the marked relief from annoying symptoms 
refeiable to the respiratory as well as to the digestive 
tract. 

Skin Affections 

While many factors enter into the cause of skin affec- 
tions, yet the one afflicted with eczema, acne, boils, etc., 
will do well to include as a part of his treatment, atten- 
t'on to his diet, with special reference to suggestions as 
outlined above. The elimination, for a time at least, of 
all free fat, as butter, oils, etc., with the minimum 
amount of cream, will often have a most beneficial ef- 

16 



242 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

feet, especially if, at the same time, an abundance of 
vitamine foods is supplied, and protein is taken in the 
form least liable to cause intestinal putrefaction, as 
boiled milk, buttermilk, or cottage cheese. 

Other Toxic Diseases 

There may be placed in this class, as extreme results 
of auto-intoxication, or intestinal toxemia, such diseases 
as pernicious anemia, and the toxic form of arthHtis 
deformans, a chronic disease of the joints, causing great 
deformity. There is much to make it seem that these 
conditions have, to an extent at least, their foundation 
in absorption of poisons from the intestinal tract, and 
their dietetic treatment should be carried out along the 
lines already suggested for the auto-intoxication type. 
The great point is to prevent intestinal putrefaction and 
at the same time to nourish the patient. 

In order to prevent putrefactive processes, it may be 
necessary to restrict the diet to the minimum necessary 
to maintain the patient, at the same time pushing the 
vitamine content of the food. Here fruit juices and 
vegetable broths, spinach broth, etc., have their greatest 
efficacy and should be used freely. As an initial treat- 
ment, a diet limited for a few days to vegetable broths 
and fruit juices given at intervals of one to two hours, 
will work like magic in some cases. It is usually impor- 
tant to omit animal protein from the diet, except that 
as given in boiled milk, buttermilk, or cottage cheese. 

In exophthalmic goiter, a disease not well understood, 
but one in which the thyroid gland, with its tonic effect 
on the nervous system, seems to work overtime, thus 
producing abnormal stimulation, with rapid heart, 
tremor, often diarrhea, etc., the question of feeding re- 
solves itself into one of a diet that furnishes an ample 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 243 

amount of vitamines and salts, with necessary amount 
of protein, but at the same time includes nothing which 
could, in any way, because of errors in digestion or 
metabolism, contribute to the irritable state of the thy- 
roid gland. Whether or not there be, in any individual 
case, direct connection between the diet and this disease, 
every effort should be made to let the dietary part of 
the daily program be conducive to the highest type of 
body existence and equilibrium. 

Experience tells us that, many times, intestinal con- 
ditions are at least one factor in the production of thy- 
roid irritation, and often an accompanying diarrhea 
denotes a participation of the alimentary tract in the 
general instability. Therefore, no added or undue strain 
should be placed upon the digestion. Intestinal putre- 
faction should be assiduously avoided even, if necessary, 
to the prohibition of all animal protein and the sim- 
plicity of an antitoxic diet rich in vitamine-containing 
foods. 

The individual will need to eat according to his type, 
whether that just considered above or the one outlined 
below. If he is of the auto-intoxication type, as he 
often is, he must eat to overcome his digestive short- 
comings. If of the suboxidation type, to increase his 
oxidation processes. Digestive abnormalities and meta- 
bolic disturbances should be corrected by dietetic treat- 
ment, as outlined in this chapter, in so far as this is 
possible. Many times on the proper dietetic regime the 
results are very gratifying, and often helpful, in ob- 
taining desired effects from other therapeutic measures. 

Exophthalmic goiter may be taken as a type of a class 
of diseases apparently due to a disturbance in the endo- 
crine balance, i. e., the mechanism, whereby, as the re- 
sult of a harmonious interaction of the ductless glands 
(the thyroid, suprarenals, ovaries, etc.) the sympathetic 



244 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

nervous system is controlled in all its activities. In all 
conditions of this class, dietetic treatment may be a help 
in tending to correct associated digestive and metabolic 
disturbances, whether causal or resultant, that if left 
uncorrected might stand in the way of the patient's sat- 
isfactory progress and ultimate recovery. 

The Second Type 

The suboxidation type of person has no trouble with 
digestion. For that reason he has not the disturbing 
symptoms of the dyspeptic to place a check upon his 
gastronomic indulgences, and the results of his dietetic 
errors are often not felt till long after the harm has 
been done. In this class come those conditions due to 
accumulated wastes in the blood and the tissues because 
of imperfect metabolism and elimination (see Chapter 
IV) ; for example, gout, rheumatism, so called, high blood 
pressure, hardening of the arteries, obesity, fatty heart, 
and Bright's disease. These persons have a good appe- 
tite, can eat anything, are usually fond of sweets, butter, 
rich foods, etc., and see no connection between their 
symptoms and their dietetic habits. 

These individuals need, with all others, the dietary es- 
sentials; they need, first of all, vitammes to stimulate 
processes of metabolism and oxidation. They need min- 
eral salts to increase the alkalinity of the blood; they 
need protein to make muscle, for the excess of tissue 
that they often have is not muscle, but fat, and the 
muscle that they do have is not of a good quality. 

To Reduce in Weight 

To decrease the protein part of their dietary much 
below normal limits is a mistake, but of total calories 
they can well bear a marked reduction with only benefit. 
Their tissues are so often clogged with uneliminated 
wastes that a low ration for a time is very necessary 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 245 

for the best results, but this decrease should be in car- 
bohydrates and fats, not to any extent in protein, unless, 
of course, the protein intake has been excessive. If 
overfreight, they can use to good advantage the energy 
food already stored in their own tissues as fat. In this 
way the system may free itself from the handicap of 
excess tissue and burn up to better advantage other 
accumulated wastes. 

These patients, with all others, need fruits and fruit 
juices, but when seeking to reduce in calories for the 
purpose of losing in weight, the vegetable juices and 
broths may be used more freely, and the fruits that 
are not so high in caloric value. The juice of a lemon 
twice daily in water, or a grapefruit, or an orange or 
two for breakfast, may be sufficient, if vegetable broths 
are taken freely as well as green and leafy vegetables. 
Tomatoes are of especial value in these cases, because, 
while their vitamine content is high and they are rich 
in alkalizing salts, they are low in calories. The acid- 
ity of the tomato seems to stabilize the vitamine so that 
it is not destroyed even in the process of canning. It 
has been shown that canned tomatoes can be made, in 
a great measure, to take the place of orange juice. 

Low in Caloric Value 

Lettuce, celery, cauliflower, cabbage, raw or cooked, 
raw carrots, string beans, asparagus, spinach, and other 
greens should be used freely. Turnips are also good, in 
that they are low in caloric value. All vegetables should 
be cooked down in their own broth and served without 
fatty seasoning. Protein can be supplied, without fur- 
nishing an excess of calories, in the form of skim milk, 
buttermilk, cottage cheese, or an egg or two daily. 

How Many Calories ? 

The last question is, How many calories does the pa- 
tient need? If his weight is normal, he peeds simply 



246 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

enough to maintain that weight, and no more. He 
should watch the scales until he loses, say half a pound. 
Then it is evident that the margin is reached, and it will 
be a simple matter for him to make the slight caloric 
adjustment to prevent greater loss. But if the loss of 
a few pounds is desirable, his daily calories can be less- 
ened accordingly, perhaps 200 or 300 calories a day less 
than necessary for maintenance, with practically no dis- 
comfort, providing his proteins, vitamines, and salts are 
sufficient. After a time his ration may be increased, 
but he should avoid putting on flesh that he does not 
need. Because of the concentration of sugar, fats, and 
pastries, he will find it necessary to deny himself largely 
of these. The olives, nuts, dates, and cream, etc., al- 
lowed the thin individual cannot, of course, be added 
ordinarily to the diet list of the one who is overweight. 
Increased strength, vigor, and happiness, as well, will 
be his reward for abstemiousness. (See page 31.) 

To Reduce Blood Pressure 

On the above regime it has become, in the author's 
experience, a very easy matter, not only to reduce in a 
most satisfactory way the weight of obese individuals, 
but also, in conditions of high blood pressure, to lower 
the blood pressure 30 to 60 points in often as short a 
period as ten days. In this way, a sphygmomanometer 
reading may be changed from 200 or more to 160 or be- 
low; and invariably there has accompanied the loss of 
weight, or the relief from excessive arterial pressure, 
a marked relief from other symptoms, with an added 
sense of well-being on the patient's part. Exceptions to 
the above would be cases with a marked degree of 
arteriosclerosis or kidney involvement. However, even 
these show decided benefit. 

In the dietetic treatment of heart a7id kidney disease, 
the principles are the same, modified in these conditions 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 247 

by the consequently weakened state of the digestive or- 
gans. In these cases it is necessary for us to go back 
to our principles of feeding in acute illnesses, giving all 
the food essentials in the most easily digested form, less- 
ening the number of calories, because of the enforced 
inactivity of the patient. 

Salt-free Diet 

It is particularly necessary in Jdchiey disease to avoid 
all condiments, even salt except in very moderate 
amounts, because of the irritating effect upon the kid- 
neys in the process of their elimination. A salt-free diet 
has long been recognized as the logical part of the 
treatment of Bright's disease. Recent literature on the 
subject, questions the necessity for such absolute re- 
striction, but all are agreed that the amount of salt in- 
gested should be limited to body need, which, according 
to Sherman, would be about one fourth the amount usu- 
ally taken. We are reminded by this of the importance 
of a normal diet both in the prevention and in the cure 
of disease, and the diet most surely curative in any dis- 
ease is the one that most completely supplies body need 
with the least strain on those tissues already weakened 
by digestive and metabolic shortenings. 

Diabetes 

Diabetes is a chronic constitutional disease, due to the 
inability of the tissue to metabolize carbohydrates. For 
convenience, it may be classed with those of the suboxi- 
dation type. In it there is a condition of defective analy- 
sis of the carbohydrate part of the food. (See Chap- 
ter IV.) The tissues are unable for some reason to 
oxidize sugar. Therefore, the blood, not being able to 
utilize the ingested carbohydrate, treats it as a foreign 
substance, and as such, eliminates it in the urine. The 
disease is not one of the kidneys, but is one of metabo- 



248 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

lism. If the blood is unable to metabolize and to use 
carbohydrates, there can be no possible advantage in 
eating them, as food not used by the body only imposes 
a burden and thus does harm. 

Eat Only That Which the Body Can Use 

What purpose do carbohydrates serve in the diet? 
Principally that of supplying calories in an easily oxi- 
dized form; they supply neither vitamines, mineral salts, 
nor proteins, except as they are taken in combination 
with these. In feeding a diabetic patient, then, the 
principle is this: In the early treatment feed him vita- 
mines, mineral salts, and proteins, unassociated as nearly 
as possible with carbohydrates. Supply calories in the 
form of protein or fat. As the patient's ability to me- 
tabolize carbohydrates improves under proper diet and 
care, add carefully small amounts of carbohydrates until 
an examination of the urine shows that they are not 
being utilized, but are being eliminated as sugar. Then 
withdraw carefully until sugar no longer appears in the 
urine. 

Fat as a Cause of Diabetic Acidosis 

The great problem in feeding these patients is in sup- 
plying the necessary caloric food value, as, normally, 
the great bulk of calories is supplied by the carbohy- 
drate part of the diet. The patient's chance of over- 
coming his disease lies in there being supplied to him 
freely his vitamines and mineral salts with necessary 
amount of protein food. To this there may be added a 
varying amount as regards caloric food value. His fat 
had better be supplied to him in a combined form, as 
in olives and nuts, rather than as an excess of free 
fats. The mistake has often been made of pushing the 
fats to too great an extent. This may easily overtax 
the body's ability to metabolize fats and cause an accu- 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 249 

mulation in the blood of the products of incomplete fat 
metabolism, and is thought by some to be a factor 
in the causation of the state of lessened alkalinity so 
common with these patients and often referred to as 
diabetic acidosis. 

Carbohydrate, as we have seen, is, under normal con- 
ditions, more easily oxidized than fat. Attention has 
already been called to the fact that carbohydrate has 
been likened to " the kindling," the combustion of which 
accelerates the oxidation of fat, the more concentrated 
fuel. When the normal utilization of the carbohydrate 
becomes impossible, great care must be taken that the 
body is not swamped with fat that it cannot metabolize. 
Less harm will be done, in many cases, by venturing, 
gradually, a little more carbohydrate in combination 
with vitamines, as in fruit juices; or in combination 
with complete proteins, as in boiled milk, than in too 
greatly pushing the fat, especially in its concentrated, 
uncombined form. To combat the tendency toward aci- 
dosis, a goodly supply of mineral salts may be given, 
and these best in leafy vegetables or their broths. 
These, as we know, also supply vitamines and complete 
proteins. 

It is quite as necessary that the diabetic have fur- 
nished to him food essentials as it is that any other 
patient have them, and his recovery can never be hoped 
for unless his dietary program very soon allows him 
these foods. Very good results may often be obtained 
by placing the patient, for a few days, on a diet of 
vegetable broth. He should be put to bed and vegetable 
broths given him freely, say eight ounces every one or 
two hours. These may be prepared according to recipes 
in Chapter XXXI, and, preferably, they should be made 
from the leafy vegetables. He may take the water from 
spinach, cauliflower, or other leafy vegetable singly or 



250 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

in combination. The urine in most cases will become 
sugar free in a few days; then other foods may be 
added. The additional foods should be those supplying 
the least amount of carbohydrate, but rich in the essen- 
tial food elements, 

Noncarbohydrate Foods 

The foods containing the smallest amount of carbo- 
hydrate are the leafy vegetables, as lettuce, spinach, 
greens of various kinds, asparagus, cabbage, Brussels 
sprouts, etc., also string beans, celery, artichokes, toma- 
toes, and cucumbers. Of the fruits, lemon, grapefruit, 
and oHves are among the lowest. Those foods contain- 
ing a little more carbohydrate, but still low, are turnips, 
carrots, squash, onions ; the more acid fruits, as oranges, 
cranberries, gooseberries, etc. ; nuts of various kinds, the 
Brazil nut, the pecan, and the filbert being slightly 
lower than the English walnut. After these, still higher 
in the scale are green peas, green Lima beans, parsnips, 
pears, apples, huckleberries, apricots, peaches, currants. 
Those highest in carbohydrate are potatoes, bread, ce- 
reals, legumes, macaroni, spaghetti, and sweet fruits, as 
prunes, bananas ; also peanuts and chestnuts. 

In the most severe cases the balance lies between the 
question of the patient's succumbing to inanition or a 
giving up of the attempt to make the urine sugar free. 
Some patients will stand a better chance of recovery 
on a fuller ration, even though sugar is not entirely 
eliminated from the urine. 

The following menus are suggestive as to possible 
food combinations. To these, in many cases, may be 
added gradually a fuller ration, watching the urine for 
any evidence that the body is unable to utilize the added 
carbohydrates. 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 251 

Suggestive Menus for the Diabetic 

No. 1 Protein Carbohydrate Total 

BREAKFAST Calories Calories Calories 

Whole Grapefruit (without sugar) 7 89 100 

Soft Eggs (2) 50 .. 150 

Almonds (6) 15 3 100 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 21. 72 92 350 

Per cent of carbohydrate for the meal, 27. 

Note that the per cent of protein is very high com- 
pared to the average per cent of the ordinary meal. 
(See page 163.) This may well be so, however, be- 
cause of the very low total. The per cent of carbohy- 
drate in the average meal is about 80 per cent, making 
it evident that the above percentage of 27 is very low. 
The calories of fat are 7iot given here; if desired, they 
can easily be found by subtracting from the total the 
sum of the protein and carbohydrate calories. 

10: 30 A. M. 

Vegetable Broth (8 oz.) 

This vegetable broth may be made according to any 
recipes given in Chapter XXXI, except that any bean 
broth should be omitted. 

Protein Carbohydrate Total 
DINNER Calories Calories Calories 

Tomato Gluten Soup 23 74 103 

Lettuce Hearts with French Dressing 3 6 50 

Asparagus (12 stalks) 12 21 38 

Olives (8) 8 16 160 

Egg Yolks (2) 16 .. 100 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 11. gg 117 451 

Per cent of carbohydrate for the meal, 25. 

4: 00 p. M. 

Vegetable Broth. 

Protein Carbohydrate Total 
SUPPER Calories Calories Calories 

Vegetable Broth 35 48 100 

Cottage Cheese with Cream 50 16 160 

Olives (8) 8 16 160 



252 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

Brazil Nuts (2) 7 3 70 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 20. iqO 83 490 

Per cent of carbohydrate for the meal, 18. 

BEDTIME 

Vegetable Broth (8 oz.) 

The total calories for the day, exclusive of the vege- 
table broth between meals, which in some cases may be 
omitted, equals 1,291 calories. The extra vegetable 
broth will give from 150 to 300 calories more, depend- 
ing upon its preparation and the amount taken. This 
would make possible 1,591 calories, with 339 calories of 
protein. It supplies a large amount of vitamines and 
salts with the least amount of carbohydrate. In severe 
cases, even the amount of carbohydrate allowed in this 
daily ration might need to be decreased, which could be 
done by lessening those foods furnishing the largest 
proportion of carbohydrates. However, care should be 
taken that the vitamine foods are not greatly decreased. 

No. 2 Protein Carbohydrate Total 

BREAKFAST Calories Calories Calories 

Fresh Tomatoes (2) 14 48 66 

Scrambled Eggs (equivalent to 2 eggs) ... 50 .. 175 

Walnuts (3) 10 8 100 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 22. 74 55 34^ 

Per cent of carbohydrate for the meal, 17. 

Protein Carbohydrate Total 
DINNER Calories Calories Calories 

Vegetarian Consomme 36 25 65 

Graham Zwieback (1 small slice) 10 60 75 

Lettuce Hearts with French Dressing 3 6 50 

String Beans (large serving) 10 12 25 

Olives (8) 8 16 160 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 18. 67 119 375 

Per cent of carbohydrates for the meal, 36, 

4: 00 p. M. 

"Vegetable Broth, 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 253 

Protein Carbohydrate Total 
SUPPEU Calories Calories Calories 

Vegetable Broth 35 48 100 

Carrot and Cottage Cheese Salad 69 21 170 

Olives (8) 8 16 160 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 26. 112 85 430 

Per cent of carbohydrate for the meal, 20. 

In preparing the salad, use 2 heaping tablespoons 
cottage cheese, 1 heaping tablespoon carrots, and six 
almonds, then add a lemon dressing. 

BEDTIME 

Vegetable Broth. 

The total calories for the three meals are 1,146. 
Extra vegetable broth may add 200 calories, making a 
total of 1,346 calories. Of this 323 are protein. 

No. 3 Protein Carbohydrate Total 

BREAKFAST Calories Calories Calories 

Juice of a Grapefruit (without sugar) .... 7 89 100 

Poached Egg on Toast 39 80 200 

Olives ( 8 ) 8 16 160 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 12. 54 135 450 

Per cent of carbohydrate for the meal, 40. 

Note how the toast increases the percentage of car- 
bohydrate, making it evident why diabetics must use 
bread very sparingly. 

Protein Carbohydrate Total 
DINNER Calories Calories Calories 

Tomato Gluten Soup 23 74 103 

Gluten Biscuit (2) 60 81 150 

Cottage Cheese Omelet (large serving) ... 73 21 200 

Cauliflower 6 4 12 

Brazil Nuts (3) 10 4 100 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 32. 172 184 565 

Per cent of carbohydrate for the meal, 32. 

4: 00 p. M. 

Vegetable Broth. 



254 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

Protein Carbohydrate Total 
SUPPER Calories Calories Calories 

Vegetable Broth 35 48 .100 

Lettuce and Almond Salad with French 

Dressing 18 8 150 

Olives (8) 8 16 160 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 15. gx 72 410 

Per cent of carbohydrate for the meal, 18. 

In preparing the salad, use with the lettuce hearts, 6 
chopped almonds. Add French dressing. 

BEDTIME 

Vegetable Broth. 
Total calories for the day, including all vegetable 
broth, are 1,635. Total protein calories equal 357. 

No. 4 Protein Carbohydrate Total 

BREAKFAST Calories Calories Calories 

Grapefruit with Almonds 22 92 200 

Nut Tomato Toast 36 129 205 

Olives (8) 8 16 160 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 12. gg 237 565 

Per cent of carbohydrate for the meal, 27. 

Make toast according to the recipe 17. 

Protein Carbohydrate Total 
DINNER Calories Calories Calories 

Vegetable Bouillon 24 53 93 

Cottage Cheese with Cream 50 16 160 

Spinach with Lemon 8 11 25 

Apple and Celery Salad (with no dressing) 5 53 60 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 26. 37 133 333 

Per cent of carbohydrate for the meal, 39. 

For the salad, use 1 medium-sized apple, 1 or 2 celery 
stalks. Dice the apple and chop the celery. Mix. 

Protein Carbohydrate Total 
SUPPER Calories Calories Calories 

Vegetable Broth 35 48 100 

Scrambled Eggs 50 . . 175 

Lettuce with French Dressing 3 6 50 

Olives (8) 8 16 160 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 19. gg 70 485 

Per cent of carbohydrate for the meal, 14.5. 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 255 

This meal represents one ^specially low in carbohy- 
drate. 

BEDTIME 

Vegetable Broth. 

The total calories for the day equal 1,488. Total pro- 
tein calories equal 284. 

No. 5 Protein Carbohydrate Total 

BKEAKFAST Calories Calories Calories 

Orange Juice (7 oz.) 7 90 100 

Soft Eggs (2) 50 .. 150 

Gluten Biscuit (2) 60 81 150 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 29. 117 171 400 

Per cent of carbohydrate for the meal, 43. 

Protein Carbohydrate Total 
DINIS'EB Calories Calories Calories 

Vegetarian Consomme (see recipe 37) 36 25 65 

Baked Potato 10 89 100 

Butter . . 50 

Combination Salad with French Dressing . . 7 24 85 

Olives (8) 8 16 160 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 10. 61 154 460 

Per cent of carbohydrate for the meal, 35. 

In cases of diabetes of moderate severity, potatoes are 
allowable in limited quantities. 

4: 00 p. M. 

Vegetable Broth. 

Protein Carbohydrate Total 
SUPPER Calories Calories Calories 

Vegetable Broth 35 48 100 

Carrot and Cottage Cheese Salad 69 21 170 

Olives (8) 8 16 160 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 26. 112 85 430 

Per cent of carbohydrate for the meal, 19. 

nEDTIME 

Vegetable Broth. 
Total calories for the day, 1,490. Total protein cal- 
ories, 360. 



256 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 



No. 6 Protein Carbohydrate Total 

BREAKFAST Calories Calories Calories 

Orange Juice (7 oz. ) 7 90 .100 

Scrambled Eggs 50 . . 175 

Baked Potato 10 89 100 

Butter . . 50 

Olives (8) 8 16 160 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 13. 75 ^95 585 
Per cent of carbohydrate for the meal, '.]?>. 

Protein Carbohydrate Total 

DIA'NEIJ Calories Calories Calories 

Vegetable Broth 35 48 100 

Cottage Cheese Omelet (large serving) .... 73 21 200 

Beet Tops 9 13 32 

Fresh Tomatoes 14 48 6G 

Walnuts ( 3 ) 10 7 100 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 28. 14X 137 498 
Per cent of carbohydrate for the meal, 27. 

4: 00 p. Ji. 

Vegetable Broth. 

Protein Carbohydrate Total 

SUPPER Calories Calories Calories 

Vegetable Broth 35 48 100 

Nut Tomato Toast 3G 129 205 

Grated Carrots (1 carrot) 5 25 35 

Almonds ( (i ) 15 3 100 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 21. «)i 205 440 
Fer cent of carbohydrate for the meal, ^3. 

I ; EOT I ME 

Vegetable Broth. 

Total calorie.s for the clay, 1,723. Total protein cal- 
ories, 377. 

No. 7 Protein Carbohydrate Total 

I'REAKFAST Calories Calories Calories 

Grapefruit 7 89 100 

Milk Toast 33 110 200 

Poached Egg 25 . . 75 

Pecans (10) 13 16 228 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 13. 73 215 603 
Per cent of carbohydrate for the meal, 35. 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 257 

Protein Carbohydrate Total 
DINNER Calories Calories Calories 

Tomato Bisque Soup 14 48 75 

Gluten Biscuit (2) 60 81 150 

Baked Potato 10 89 100 

Butter , . 50 

Cottage Cheese with Cream 50 16 160 

Cauliflower 6 4 12 

Olives (8) 8 16 160 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 21. ]^48 254 707 

Per cent of cai bohydrate for the meal, 34.5. 

4: 00 p. M. 

Vegetable Broth. 

Protein Carbohydrate Total 
SUPPER > Calories Calories Calories 

Vegetable Bouillon (see recipe 23) 24 53 93 

Graham Zwieback ( 1 ) 14 80 100 

Grated Carre^ 5 25 35 

Olives (8) *". 8 16 160 

Per cent of protein for the meal, 14. 51 174 ogg 

Per cent of carbohydrate for the meal, 45. 

I5EDTIME 

Vegetable Broth. 

Total calories for the day, 1,898. Total protein for 
the day, 347. 

Many cases of diabetes do not need to be so greatly 
restricted in their diet; others need even greater re- 
striction for a time at least. During the initial period 
of treatment, it may be necessary to so completely elim- 
inate the carbohydrate from their diet that their total 
calories may be 1,000 or below. Their chance for recov- 
ery, however, will usually depend upon its being possible 
to supply them necessary vitamines and salts. As has 
already been said, this may be most readily accom- 
plished by restricting them entirely to vegetable broths. 
These vegetable broths should be made of leaves and 
skins, these supplying more vitamines, salts, and pro- 

17 



258 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

teins, with the least amount of carbohydrate. In th:ise 
broths may be used potato skins, carrot skins, tomatoes, 
celery leaves, spinach, cabbage, and cauliflower, or any 
other vegetables of a leafy nature. The caloric value 
of the vegetable broths given above can only be approx- 
imate, as they may vary greatly, depending upon their 
mode of preparation and the kind of vegetables used. 
Try the following recipe: ^ 

4 potatoes (scrub well and peel) 

2 carrots (scrub and peel) 

2 onions (clean, but do not remove skins) 

1 bunch of celery (remove tops) 

4 tomatoes (do not peel) 

1 bunch of spinach 

1 small head of cabbage 

Put together in a large kettle the potato and carrot 
skins, the onions, celery tops, tomatoes, spinach, and 
cabbage. Cover with cold water. Bring slowly to a 
boil. Cook for one-half hour, then place in a fireless 
cooker for three hours; or cook slowly on stove for two 
or three hours. Add water as necessary. Pour off the 
liquor, of which there should be about one quart; salt 
and serve. One-half pint of strained tomato may be 
used, if necessary, instead of fresh tomato. 



CHAPTER XXVII 

PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK AS APPLIED 
IN CHRONIC INFECTIOUS DISEASES 

Of chronic infectious diseases, we may take tubercu- 
losis as a type. In this condition the vitality has been 
lowered to such an extent that the infecting agent, the 
tuberculosis germ, has successfully invaded the tissues, 
and has, to a greater or less degree, got the upper hand. 
The body resources are not sufficiently strong to quell 
the invader. In some cases, the infection may lie dor- 
mant, not making much headway. In others, the body 
forces are constantly losing, and the patient finally 
succumbs. 

Due to Impoverished Diet 

Many of these patients are improperly nourished to 
begin with. In fact, it has been said that tuberculosis 
is indirectly due to an impoverished or a deficient diet, 
or, in other words, that because of a lack of proper 
nourishment the system becomes so depleted that it falls 
an easy prey to infection. So, to nourish these indi- 
viduals properly is of first importance, and gives them 
a fighting chance. 

There is an imperative need for large quantities of 
vitamines, with their favorable influence on all vital 
processes. There is increased demand for alkaline salts 
to counteract the increasing tendency toward acidity 
ever present in chronic infections. Some say that there 
is need for extra calcium salts, due to the fact that the 
healing process is dependent upon a walling off, with 
calcification, of local diseased areas. There is a great 
necessity for added protein because of increased tissue 

259 



260 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

waste. How to supply these in a form easily used by 
the system, is the great question. 

Low-Grade Fever 

Many of these are cases of long-continued fever of 
low-grade type. Such are bed patients, and must be fed 
often, as in any prolonged fever case (see Chapter XXV) , 
pushing the vitamines and salts; keeping the amount of 
protein up to the amount well tolerated; and increasing 
the caloric total gradually as the patient can bear it. 

All of these, whether running a temperature or not, 
have more or less toxemia, and the outline for feeding 
must be much the same as for those of the auto-intoxi- 
cation type. (See Chapter XXVI.) 

Digestive Disturbances 

Almost without exception, patients with tuberculosis 
have depressed digestive function, their first symptoms 
often being those of dyspepsia. There should therefore 
be served to them food that while supplying needed 
nourishment, can get from the alimentary tract into the 
blood with as little strain as possible on the digestive 
organs. Each individual case must be studied as to 
personal tastes and digestive shortcomings; foods must 
always be given with due regard for digestive ability, 
and should not be pushed beyond the point where the 
patient can well take care of them. 

Forced Feeding 

Because of the great need of protein, the plan of 
•' forced feeding," with a large amount of milk and 
eggs, so in favor a few years ago, did good in many 
cases. This furnished an abundance of protein as well 
as vitamines and salts. But the large amount of milk 
and eggs often greatly increased the toxemia, thus, 
many times, overbalancing the good which might have 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 261 

been derived from the high protein diet. Therefore, 
whenever possible, the diet should be planned in such 
a way as to furnish needed nourishment without encour- 
aging intestinal putrefactive processes. 

As to feeding possibilities, we give the following out- 
line, which will need modification in many ways for 
different cases. 

To Supply Vitamines 

To supply vitamines, fruit juices and vegetable broths 
should be given freely at meals and between meals. For 
example, the patient might have a glass of fruit juice 
one hour or one-half hour before each meal and a cup 
of vegetable bouillon at the beginning of each meal. If 
this seems too much liquid, the broth may be made more 
concentrated and only one-half cup taken at a time. Or 
the vegetable broth may be taken between meals, say 
two hours before meals. McKann's recipe for vege- 
table soup is a good one. It is as follows : Boil cabbage, 
carrots, celery, parsnips, spinach, onions, and turnips 
together for two hours ; drain off the liquor, and discard 
the residue; feed the liquor as soup in generous quanti- 
ties. Other vegetables, of course, may be used (see reci- 
pes. Chapter XXXI). In this way these patients may 
get an abundance of vitamines and mineral salts as well 
as from 300 to 500 calories of actual food value, aside 
from that which they would get anyway in their reg- 
ular meals. 

Milk and Eggs 

As large an amount of milk as can well be taken, 
affords a valuable means of protein supply, and here it 
is of great advantage to remember that boiled milk can 
be taken in larger quantities than raw milk, because it 
is so much more easily digested (see page 224). So this 
patient may well have at least a quart of milk a day to 



262 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

drink, in addition to that cooked and served with his 
food. This milk should be eaten; that is, sipped alter- 
nately with other food, instead of being drunk. Ordi- 
narily it is better to take milk only at mealtime, the 
only food taken between meals being fruit juices and 
vegetable broth. In addition to this, cottage cheese may 
be served to him in various ways (see recipes 48 and 
77). He may take buttermilk with or without the addi- 
tion of cream. Two eggs daily may be of value in add- 
ing necessary extra protein, and may in some cases take 
the place of so much milk. If able to take all of the 
above foods, he may easily get protein as follows: Milk, 
one and one-half quarts, protein calories, 180; two eggs, 
protein calories, 50 ; cottage cheese, 2 heaping table- 
spoons, protein calories, 60; total protein calories, 290. 
In addition to this, the protein of his cereals, vegetables, 
and other foods, including perhaps a dozen almonds daily, 
would easily bring his protein up to 350 or 400 calories 
daily. This excess of protein, however, would be neces- 
sary only in those cases where, because of wasting, there 
is need of extra tissue building, and should, of course, 
be adjusted to suit the patient. Grains, vegetables, and 
fruits should be used freely, — cereals preferably in the 
form of dextrinized cereals and as gruels. 

Total Calories 

The total amount of food required depends upon the 
degree of emaciation of the patient, but, unfortunately, 
the emaciated patient is the one who often cannot digest 
his food. Such patients may need to be limited largely 
to a liquid diet, with frequent meals consisting of fruit 
juices, vegetable broths or soups, and boiled milk with 
perhaps oven toast, other simple foods being added 
gradually. For those patients who can take more of the 
solid food, the daily calories may be increased in va- 
rious ways; e. g., olives at each meal, perhaps six, thus 



PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING THE SICK 263 

in the three meals adding 300 calories to the daily total; 
two or four dates at the end of each meal, making 100 
to 200 more; three or four walnuts daily, adding an- 
other 100; a little additional cream, if patient takes it 
well. It must not be forgotten that in all infections, 
whether acute or chronic, an excess of free fat should 
be avoided. Fats are better derived from olives and 
milk than from butter or a large amount of cream. 

Do Not Overfeed 

It cannot be too emphatically asserted that food be- 
yond what the digestive organs can handle only does 
harm; that it is the food digested, not the food eaten, 
that nourishes the body. It may be better, in many 
cases, to lessen the total amount by half and have it 
digested and utilized than to push the amount to some 
desired total and produce fatal results, because of indi- 
gestion and increased toxemia. There are few cases 
that cannot be supplied sufficient vitamines, salts, and 
protein by following the principles already laid down. 
But to overfeed is a great mistake and should be 
avoided. When the total calories must of necessity be 
low, by all possible means keep the protein relatively 
high; lessen the amount of the more purely energy 
foods and limit the patient's activities in accordance 
with caloric intake. 

Milk Diet 

In many cases of tuberculosis the milk diet may be 
carried out with success and much benefit to the patient. 
(See milk diet, Chapter XXVIII.) However, the same 
results can usually be obtained by an intelligent combi- 
nation of otlier foods, supplying in a less monotonous 
form the valuable food elements furnished by milk. 

In all chronic infections that might be mentioned, the 
basis of feeding is the same. Push the vitamines arid 



264 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

properly nourish the individual. First, be sure of suffi- 
cient protein, then add energy food as indicated. Avoid 
intestinal stagnation and putrefaction by boiling the 
milk, which not only aids in its digestion, but also steri- 
lizes it; by using the lactic-acid products, as buttermilk 
and cottage cheese; and by using only eggs which are 
strictly fresh and from well-kept hens. 

In pyorrhea the thing of first importance, together 
with necessary dental work, is to change the basic or 
constitutional condition by a well-balanced diet, includ- 
ing an abundance of fresh fruit and green vegetables. 
And in all chronic infections, no matter what the germ, 
the importance of general hygienic measures to increase 
the vital resistance of the patient cannot be too strongly 
emphasized. Of this general hygiene the dietetic treat- 
ment is ever of great importance, and should be carried 
out as outlined above. This insures the best results 
from any other treatment or necessary medication. 



" The lack of defensive essence is just as 
potent a producer of disease as the presence of 
an invading toxin. I am, indeed, here to carry 
this argument a step farther by declaring that 
all disease — or nearly all — depends not so 
much upo7i the presence of a plus as upo7i the 
absence of the minus; to contend that tvere it 
7iot for the poverty of the soil m defensive es- 
sence, the lueeds of disease ivould never groiv." 
— Williams, at meeting of British Medical As- 
sociatio7i, Jidy, 1920. 



CHAPTER XXVIII 
MILK AND THE MILK DIET 

A Complete Food 

Milk is a very valuable food, and forms a large part 
of the diet of civilized races. For this reason, a thor- 
ough knowledge of milk, its food value, its digestion and 
utilization in the body, and the best ways of using it in 
the diet, is of great importance. Milk as a food is more 
nearly complete than any other. It contains all the 
known vitamines, water-soluble B, fat-soluble A, and 
water-soluble C. It contains mineral salts, being slightly 
deficient in iron, because of the fact that the young ani- 
mal, for whom milk is intended, is born with a good 
supply of iron stored up in its body. It contains com- 
plete protein in large proportions, 100 calories of milk 
giving 19 or 20 calories of protein. It contains a large 
amount of fat, 50 per cent of its food value being this 
concentrated food element. It contains carbohydrate in 
the form of milk sugar, about 30 per cent of its food 
value being in the milk sugar which it contains. It con- 
tains a large amount of water, 87 per cent of its volume 
being water. Containing no cellulose, it does not have 
the laxative action due to this substance. For this 
reason, a milk diet may be considered nonlaxative, or 
constipating, in its mechanical effect on the bowel. But 
it contains all the food elements which must be absorbed 
in order to sustain life. 

A Disadvantage 

Its disadvantages as a sole article of food are due 
largely to its lack of cellulose to stimulate the bowel to 
normal action, and to the fact that it is more or less 

265 



266 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

subject to putrefaction in the germ-laden intestinal tract. 
If retained long in the bowel, such putrefactive prod- 
ucts are harmful to the system. 

A Solid Food 

Because of the acidity of the gastric juice, and the 
milk-curdling action of one of its ingredients, — the 
rennet ferment, — milk begins to form curds soon after 
it enters the stomach. Thus it forms in the stomach a 
substance of more or less solid and tough consistency 
instead of the simple liquid it might at first seem to be. 
This solid portion of the milk is its protein, and in this 
solid form it is digested by the pepsin of the gastric 
juice. The fat and sugar are digested later in the 
intestine. 

The ease of milk digestion depends upon the size of 
the curds. It has been found, as the result of a series 
of experiments, that the curds formed by the milk tend 
to coalesce, so that even if milk is taken in sips, large 
curds may be formed unless the sips of milk are alter- 
nated with bites of other food, and the milk is more or 
less mixed with other food before it is swallowed. (See 
page 175.) If for any reason milk digestion is delayed, 
it may also greatly delay the digestion of other food, 
and as it passes into the intestine it, with the food ac- 
companying it, may be in a condition in which, in the 
presence of the germ activity of the intestinal tract, 
putrefaction very rapidly takes place. A stagnant con- 
dition often results, with indigestion, distress, fermen- 
tation, and gas formation. Poisons may be formed that 
overwhelm the liver, get by into the blood stream, and 
tend to produce ill health. For this reason, in what 
form and hoiv milk is taken, is of great importance. 

There are many ways in which milk can be used as 
a food. Let those who usually find that milk does not 
agree with them, try one or more of the following: 



MILK AND THE MILK DIET 267 

1. Buttermilk, because of its lactic-acid content, does 
not favor intestinal putrefaction, as does sweet milk, 
because the germ producing lactic acid, is antagonistic 
to the germs of putrefaction. It supplies the same food 
value as milk, except the fat content. This lack, how- 
ever, for some people simply facilitates the ease of di- 
gestion, but if the food value of whole milk is desired, 
it is a simple matter to accomplish this result by the 
addition of about two tablespoonfuls, or an ounce, of 
average cream to a glass (seven ounces) of buttermilk. 

Many people attempting to use buttermilk complain 
that it causes flatulence. This to a large extent may 
be obviated by eating the buttermilk with a spoon, mix- 
ing it in the mouth with other food, instead of drinking 
it, as is usually done. Other lactic-acid products of milk, 
as yogurt, fermilac, vitalait, etc., are good also and may 
be substituted for buttermilk. 

2. Cottage cheese. Very few people cannot take cot- 
tage cheese. Like buttermilk, it does not favor intes- 
tinal putrefaction. It is a solid food instead of a 
liquid, and so does not introduce into the stomach an 
excess of liquid, which for some is an advantage. (See 
page 177.) It supplies a large amount of complete pro- 
tein, which is often needed by the very class of people 
who do not seem able to take milk. It may be served 
plain or made equivalent to whole milk by the addition 
of cream. It may be combined in recipes to give va- 
riety (see recipes 48 and 77). Neufchatel cheese is a 
lactic-acid cheese which can be obtained on the market, 
and, if fresh, is good. Milk curdled by the use of the 
junket tablet is in a form that can be masticated and 
therefore digested with ease. 

3. Boiled Milk. As has already been suggested in 
previous chapters (see page 224), it has been demon- 
strated that boiled milk is much more easily digested 



268 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

than whole milk, because, of the fine, flaky curds that 
are formed. These are much more easily surrounded 
and permeated by the gastric juice than are the large, 
tough curds of raw milk. The boiling of milk also 
sterilizes it, and if it is taken soon after boiling, having 
been kept free from recontamination, it enters the di- 
gestive tract a sterile substance. Being easy of diges- 
tion, it passes quickly through the stomach and bowel, 
and is much less liable to intestinal putrefaction than 
that form of milk which is germ laden when it is taken, 
and because of its large curds, passes slowly through 
the alimentary canal. Boiled milk has always been con- 
sidered constipating, but milk, even though raw, has 
nothing to recommend it as a laxative food, for it con- 
tains no laxative ingredient, as cellulose. After its 
water is absorbed, it leaves a concentrated residue, 
which, as we have seen, does not favor natural bowel 
activity. When unboiled, there is a greater residue, 
because of the large curds, but this favors, if anything, 
the irritation of putrefaction rather than the normal 
stimulus for peristalsis. The helpfulness of boiled milk 
in diarrhea is due to the fact that, because of its ease 
of digestion and absorption, it has a soothing, nonirri- 
tating action which tends to overcome the irritated 
condition practically always present in diarrhea. 

Fresh milk, boiled and taken soon after boiling, is 
probably not to any great extent deprived of its vita- 
mines, but a diet including a normal amount of fruit 
and vegetables is not dependent on milk for its vitamine 
content, so the question of devitalizing milk by boiling 
is of minor consequence. Milk should always be used 
fresh. Boiling should never be depended upon to make 
it possible to use old or stale milk. 

4. Skim milk. For some who find milk fat difficult 
of digestion, the protein of milk may be utilized in the 



MILK AND THE MILK DIET 269 

form of skim milk. As a rule, for these the milk should 
be boiled. Boiled skim milk is one of the very simplest 
of foods, and can be taken by any one who can take 
liquid of any kind. It often solves the feeding problem. 

5. Whole raiv milk. This, if certified as to its purity, 
can be taken by many with advantage. As a rule, it is 
well to take it mixed with other food, as, e. g., bread 
and milk, or on cereal, or alternating sips of milk with 
solid food. Taken in this way, large curds are not so 
likely to be formed. 

In the author's opinion it is never wise to drink milk 
between meals or at bedtime, as is often done, except 
of course, as is necessary in the frequent feedings of a 
liquid diet. In such cases the feedings, even though as 
often as every hour, may be considered meals, and our 
rule as to milk " between meals " still holds good. 

6. There are other and varied ways in which milk 
may be used with advantage, as in soups, sauces, and 
other cooked dishes. In this form many can take milk 
well who seem unable to take it in any other way. 

The Milk Diet 

Because the milk diet has been accorded such a fol- 
lowing and has been heralded abroad as a cure-all for 
so many conditions of ill health, and is, in many cases, 
an important means of supplying to undernourished in- 
dividuals essential food elements in an easily assimilated 
form, we believe a discussion of the milk diet at this 
time will not be out of place. 

The milk diet supplies to the one taking it a goodly 
amount of protein, 120 calories to the quart, with total 
calories of 640 to the quart. It also contains mineral 
salts and vitamines. By taking milk as the sole article 
of diet, so that there is only one kind of food to tax 
the digestive organs, the patient with poor appetite and 



270 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

weak digestion is able to take and assimilate more cal- 
ories than in any other way. Four quarts daily of 
milk, the least amount that is usually considered suf- 
ficient when one is on a milk diet, supplies a total 
number of calories equaling 2,600, with 480 calories of 
protein. This excess of protein is what these patients 
often need, and if for a time more can be taken, it thus 
increases the value of the milk diet and the patients 
are usually gratified by a marked and definite gain in 
weight. This gain in weight often gives them just the 
reserve they need. 

In many cases the advantages of the milk diet may 
be derived in a less monotonous way by following the 
suggestions given in Chapter XXVI for cases of the 
auto-intoxication type. But there are times in which the 
definite initial start obtainable from a diet restricted to 
milk is of great advantage. Many an individual will 
accept with resignation the restrictions of the milk diet 
for a few weeks, who lacks the faith to adhere to any 
other plan. It becomes an easy matter then, after the 
initial benefit has been received, to accomplish the change 
back to a normal diet, following the plan of Chapter 
XXVI. 

However, when it seems that the milk diet is indi- 
cated, the fact that milk is easy to digest may be used 
to great advantage, making it possible for those to take 
the milk diet who have perhaps been ruled out as un- 
suitable subjects, those who have never seemed able to 
take milk in any form; and it greatly increases the 
advantage that any may derive from this diet. 

A Safety Measure 

But, again the question arises: How about the con- 
stipating action of boiled milk and its vitamine content? 
First, as has been said, the milk diet may always be 



MILK AND THE MILK DIET 



271 



considered constipating, even though the milk is taken 
raw. Artificial means must always, to a greater or less 
extent, be used to induce necessary bowel activity, and 
if milk is boiled, the vitamine supply must be secured 
from another source, this other source being always a 
great advantage from several standpoints, and very 
helpful in combating constipation. Fruit juice, which 
is the added source of vitamine suggested, makes a 
very valuable and satisfactory addition to the milk diet. 
Just as we add orange juice to the diet of a baby who 
is on boiled milk, so we give the adult, when on the 
milk diet, fruit juices, including orange juice. A sug- 
gestive program for the milk diet, found in the author's 
practice to be very satisfactory, is as follows : 

7 A. M. Fruit juice 8 to 12 oz. Preferably orange juice or 
watermelon juice. In some cases a breakfast of 
fruit itself has been allowed. 



8 A. 


M. 


Boiled 


milk 


8 


oz. 


9 " 


" 


" 


" 


8 


" 


10 " 

11 " 


« 


« 


« 


8 
8 


u 


12 M. 




" 


" 


8 


•• 


1 p. 


JI. 


Fruit 


juice 


8 


to 12 oz 


2 " 




Boiled 


milk 


8 


oz. 


3 " 




" 


" 


8 




4 " 




" 


" 


8 




5 " 




" 


" 


8 




6 " 




" 


" 


8 




7 " 




" 


" 


8 




8 " 




" 


" 


8 




9 " 




Fruit 


juice 


8 


to 12 oz. 



On this program the patient begins the milk diet with 
three quarts of milk and three fourths to one quart of 
fruit juice daily, making a total of about 2,300 calories. 
Gradually increasing the milk to 12 ounces every hour, 
brings the daily milk ration up to four and a half quarts 
and increases the total calories to 3,000 or more. Dur- 



272 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

ing the day, when the appetite becomes cloyed with so 
much milk, there may be substituted at any time. for 
the hourly milk ration another glass of fruit juice, or 
a glass of buttermilk. 

The attendant constipation usually necessitates daily 
enemas, and bowel activity is favored by preceding the 
morning fruit juice by a cup of flaxseed tea made from 
the whole seed, then strained, and taken hot with lemon 
juice. 

Some cases are able to take more milk than suggested 
above, even as much as five or six quarts daily, but we 
have found it no great advantage to push the milk be- 
yond what the patient can take with comparative ease. 
Some patients can take more milk if a portion of the 
cream is removed, but there is, of course, little advan- 
tage in this because of the lessening in the caloric value. 



" Oh, for festal dainties spread 
Like my boicl of milk and bread; 
Peiuter spoon and howl of wood, 
On the doorstone, gray and rude! " 



CHAPTER XXIX 
FOOD IDIOSYNCRASIES 

Principles Versus Rules 

No two individuals can eat the same foods. No two 
need the same diet, either in kind or amount. Rules 
in dietetics are ever misleading. Principles need indi- 
vidual application, and what is good for one person may 
not necessarily be best for another. Dietetic needs vary 
with individual digestive ability and metabolic activity. 

Certain classes of foods are more easily utilized by 
some people than others. Some can digest greater bulk 
of food or coarser cellulose; some can handle a greater 
amount of fat; some do not take a large amount of 
starch or sugar well; some need and can utilize more 
protein ; others may need to keep protein food within 
narrow limits. 

All of these individual peculiarities should be recog- 
nized and the daily ration planned accordingly. At the 
same time natural food resources are so varied and 
unlimited that none need lack a complete and well- 
balanced food supply. 

Habits of eating, food likes and dislikes, and even, to 
an extent, the apparent ability of the digestive organs 
to care for food, are to a great degree the result of 
education. Dietetic habits formed in childhood and 
early youth usually prevail in later life, the individual 
often being very persistent in the thought that any 
radical change in his ways of eating would be out of 
the question. 

A Change in Mental Attitude 

It is very possible, however, for any individual to 
learn to enjoy new foods, new combinations, and even 

18 273 



274 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

to lose his relish for foods of which he was at one time 
very fond, providing there be a sufficient incentive or 
chain of circumstances to give him a willing mind, 
or to change his mental attitude. Many have come to 
have a dislike for some food formerly enjoyed, through 
some circumstance connected with the eating of it. 
There are many who can testify to a great change in 
their habits of eating as a result of the food conserva- 
tion campaign of the late war. Interested in the food 
questions of the day, they looked at foods and the ques- 
tion of eating in a new light, and their mental attitude 
became such that it was comparatively easy for them to 
make even quite radical changes in their food prefer- 
ences. They wanted to like certain things and found it 
easy to do so. Many now enjoy Graham and whole- 
wheat bread who, before the war, countenanced only 
white. 

New Interests 

Travelers in the Orient, as they become interested in 
the customs of the people, often find it quite possible to 
partake of and to enjoy foods which at home they would 
never choose. Their interest changes their mental atti- 
tude to one of willingness to try something new in the 
food line. Likewise, an individual thoroughly interested 
in his own physical welfare and learning that a change 
in diet would be beneficial, can, if he will, right-about- 
face, dietetically, and learn to eat with the keenest en- 
joyment those things which before contained no appeal 
for him; that is, provided he is sufl!iciently and properly 
nourished thereby. 

A food idiosyncrasy is a condition in which a certain 
food, ordinarily a good food and well borne by people in 
general, cannot be eaten without producing disturbing 
symptoms, even to the extent of poisoning, real or 
apparent. 



FOOD IDIOSYNCRASIES 275 

Real food idiosyncrasies are comparatively rare and 
will be discussed later. 

Fancied food idiosyyicrasies are frequent, and we often 
hear people saying that they cannot eat oranges, take 
orange juice or fruit of any kind, when, if they could 
only be made to think so, by a little planning and intel- 
ligent application of feeding principles they might find 
themselves well able to take fruit. There are many who 
insist that milk, in any form, produces indigestion; 
when the trouble is not with the milk but in the way it 
is eaten. 

One dear little lady, after eating for days a combi- 
nation that would be a tax on any one's liver, when she 
came down with a bilious attack, remembered that she 
had eaten an Qgg the day before, and wailed, " I never 
could eat eggs." 

A sufferer from asthma happened to have an asth- 
matic attack following a meal in which an innocent 
grapefruit was included. Never again could she be in- 
duced to eat grapefruit. As the grapefruit was only one 
of many foods taken at this meal, just why it should 
be blamed was difficult to determine. One patient, who 
insisted that beans were " poison " to her and who never 
failed to suffer the expected symptoms upon the ingestion 
of even a recognized bean flavor, took them without the 
slightest untoward result when bean puree was served 
her in a vegetable soup in which the bean flavor was 
masked. No doubt for her the bean cellulose was diffi- 
cult of digestion, but she failed to recognize the cause 
of the trouble and blamed it to some inherent quality 
of the bean itself, the fallacy of which in her case was 
quite evident. 

Afraid to Eat 

There is no phase of life in which the mental attitude 
has such a bearing as in the question of eating. Some 



276 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

individuals have this mental anxiety toward food devel- 
oped to such a degree that all food causes indigestion 
for no other reason than that it is expected to make 
trouble. Many are deprived of necessary food elements 
and die of malnutrition and deficiency diseases, because 
they are afraid to eat. 

One cannot live unless he eats to live, and in order 
for the system to carry on its activities the diet must in- 
clude all food essentials. The depleted system of the 
one who does not eat cannot, because of weakness, prop- 
erly digest any food, and thus a vicious circle is estab- 
lished which must be broken through at some point. 
The only hopeful point is that which offers opportunity 
for the system to receive its necessary nourishment, no 
matter what may be the remonstrance of a weakened, 
nervously warped digestive tract. 

Better Digestive Distress than Starvation 

Vitamine and protein foods must be supplied freely, 
but these are often the ones that people of this type 
think they cannot take. Better some gas and distress 
for a time than death from starvation. A sensible plan 
of diet, outlined with due regard for digestive weakness, 
should be followed in spite of some consciousness of dis- 
comfort after eating. 

What is often termed one's experience may be dis- 
torted by fear, prejudice, and even, to an extent, an 
unwillingness to yield a point. We give the following- 
quotation as having an application to the subject in 
question : 

" Real experience is a variety of careful experiments, 
made with the mind freed from prejudice, and uncon- 
trolled by previously established opinions and habits. 
The results are marked with careful solicitude, and an 
anxious desire to learn, to improve, and to reform on 



FOOD IDIOSYNCRASIES 277 

every habit that is not in harmony with physical and 
moral laws. The idea of others gainsaying what you 
have learned by experience, seems to you to be folly, and 
even cruelty itself. But there are more errors received 
and firmly retained from false ideas of experience than 
from any other cause, for the reason that what is gen- 
erally termed experience is not experience at all ; because 
there has never been a fair trial by actual experiment 
and thorough investigation, with a knowledge of the 
principle involved in the action." — White. 

A true food idiosyyicrasy is a hypersensitiveness of 
the body to certain proteins, resulting in the production 
of toxic symptoms whenever these proteins are taken. 
True food idiosyncrasies do occur, and they should be 
recognized. 

As has been noted elsewhere (see Chapter VI), pro- 
teins differ greatly. Food proteins are different from 
body proteins. There is a great variation in tissue pro- 
teins of the same animal body and in the proteins of 
different plants and different animals. While the build- 
ing stones that make up proteins in the beginning are 
from the same eighteen structural units, yet in their 
many combinations, the resulting proteins are as varied 
and numerous as the words of the English language. 

Foreign Proteins 

All proteins not a part of the blood or tissues of any 
animal body, are foreign proteins as far as that animal 
is concerned, and remain so until the protein molecule 
is broken down and rebuilt into one partaking of the 
nature of those of the animal itself. This breaking down 
usually takes place in the digestive tract of the animal, 
and the protein is absorbed in the form of the elemental 
amino acids, which after absorption are reunited in va- 
rious combinations to form the many different kinds of 
tissue. 



278 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

A Toxic Element 

In the breaking down, or digestion, of the protein 
molecule a portion is set free which is toxic, but being 
eliminated in the digestive tract, is normally without 
effect. If for any reason the protein molecule is ab- 
sorbed before proper digestion, it enters the blood 
stream as a foreign protein. There may be an effort on 
the part of the tissues to break it down with the elab- 
oration of certain ferments for this purpose. If this 
digestion in the tissues is accomplished, the toxic ele- 
ment ordinarily set free in, and eliminated through, the 
digestive tract, is set free in the blood, with resultant 
toxic symptoms. The ferments, having once been elab- 
orated for the tissue digestion of this particular protein, 
persist, and the body becomes sensitized to this protein, 
symptoms of poisoning ever resulting when it in any 
way reaches the blood stream. In catarrhal conditions 
of the digestive tract, with the ever attendant conges- 
tion of the mucous membrane often resulting in an ab- 
normally increased absorptive power, proteins may be 
absorbed before disintegration, and, if the body attempts 
to digest them in the tissues, toxic symptoms may result. 

Anaphylaxis 

This toxicity results only if, as a result of the above 
combination of conditions, the body becomes sensitized 
to this protein. This condition of abnormal sensiti- 
zation is known by the name anaphylaxis. According 
to Rosenau anaphylaxis may be considered " a condition 
of unusual or exaggerated susceptibility of the organism 
to foreign proteins." 

After sensitization once occurs, the hypersensitiveness 
is very extreme, so much so that a very small amount 
of the offending protein may cause trouble; not only if 
taken through the digestive tract in the form of some 



FOOD IDIOSYNCRASIES 279 

food protein, but also, in some cases, the infinitesimal 
amount which might be absorbed through the respira- 
tory mucous membrane, as in hay fever due to pollen 
sensitization, or in the attacks of asthma some people 
have when in close proximity to horses, and called 
" horse asthma." Certain drugs, by reason of their al- 
tering some of the body proteins, cause symptoms of 
anaphylaxis. Food proteins to which the body most 
often becomes sensitized are the animal proteins, as va- 
rious meats, shellfish, eggs, milk, and occasionally, straw- 
berries, gooseberries, etc. 

Anaphylactic symptoms often show themselves in the 
skin as hives; in respiratory reactions, as hay fever, 
asthma; and in various digestive disturbances. These 
conditions of hypersensitiveness may be hereditary, or 
may be acquired in the way outlined above. 

Sensitization Tests 

There are protein skin tests called sensitization tests 
that can be made to determine one's sensitiveness to 
certain proteins, and these should be made in all cases 
of suspected anaphylaxis. Where such a condition ex- 
ists, the treatment consists in avoiding the ofi'ending 
protein; in selecting a careful diet designed to clear up 
any abnormal conditions of the digestive tract; and, in 
some cases, under competent supervision, the taking of 
graduated doses of the protein, with the hope that a tol- 
erance for it may be established. If it chances to be the 
protein of oyster, clam, etc., it may not be worth while 
to bother with an attempt to establish body tolerance 
for it. 

There are really very few, if any, natural foods prop- 
erly prepared and properly eaten that will cause this 
condition of anaphylaxis. Very often the offending 
foods are those which might be questioned from other 



280 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

standpoints than that of peculiar individual idiosyncrasy. 
Food idiosyncrasies not explainable along lines of ra- 
tional principles of feeding are seldom met with and, 
in most cases, need cause little inconvenience if normal 
dietetic principles are applied in every case with nec- 
essary individual application. 



" A71 impoverished diet produces poverty of 
the blood. Cases of disease most difficult to 
cure result from this cause." — White. 



CHAPTER XXX 
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION 

1. Our bodies are made up of the food we eat. " As 
a man eateth, so is he." Quality of tissue depends on 
quality of food. 

2. Food may be of poor quality when eaten, or it may 
become contaminated during a process of retarded di- 
gestion, and so be impure as it enters the blood. 

3. Excessive quantity is sure to impair quality of food 
and of the food-laden blood. 

4. Chronic disease is largely due to defective food 
analysis in the body. These conditions are all prevent- 
able. Knowledge is power. 

5. Know food values, the composition of foods, and 
the relation of food elements to body needs. 

6. See to it that your daily ration is a balanced one. 
Do not consider the question of calories an arbitrary 
one. Remember that individual needs and conditions 
must be considered and rules modified. Estimate your 
calories for two weeks. How much are you eating, and 
is it the right amount? Could you do just as well on 
less, or do you need more? Sit in judgment on your 
own case. 

7. Remember that excessive calories cannot make up 
for deficient vitamines; that the body cannot utilize 
food unless the necessary physiological ferments are 
backed up by an ample vitamine supply. Know the 
vitamine foods and avoid a devitalized diet. Eat freely 
of raw foods, and do not forget the value of green 
vegetables. 

8. Avoid a monotonous diet, and thus the danger of 
deficiency in quality as well as in quantity of proteins. 

281 



282 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

9. Do not consider it a hardship if you find it neces- 
sary from the standpoint of economy to limit your meat 
supply. Remember that an adequate, properly balanced 
diet is very possible without the use of flesh food, and 
that the fleshless diet offers many advantages healthwise. 

10. Keep out of your food those things that make it 
" hot when it is cold " and that tend to produce irritated 
catarrhal conditions of the digestive mucous membrane. 
Remember that the mucous membrane may be irritated 
not only by condiments, but also by excessive and super- 
heated fats, improperly masticated and indigestible food, 
and by cane sugar in concentration. 

11. Do you long for a good complexion? Eat less free 
fat, more raw carrots, fresh fruit, and green vegetables. 

12. Remember that your health and efficiency are im- 
paired, your possibilities for length of life lessened, by 
the use of beverages and foods which continually, even 
though slightly, stimulate because of drug principles 
that they contain. 

13. Remember that bread is the " staff of life " only 
when it contains its nutritive elements entire, and that 
the use of the whole grains is economy from every 
standpoint. 

14. Regard desserts with suspicion, use them with 
caution, and when used, let them supply a need rather 
than serve as an excess. 

15. A simple variety at a meal is a great advan- 
tage, and the best combination is a well-balanced ration. 

16. No one dietetic plan is a " cure-all." All rules 
have their exceptions. The only safe plan is to have a 
thorough understanding of dietetics and of the principles 
of nutrition, with the use of common sense and good 
judgment in their application. 

17. The physical foundation for mental and spiritual 
growth is most important. The greatest work that can 



SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION 283 

be accomplished is that of feeding the child in such a 
way as to insure the highest type of physical, mental, 
and spiritual development. The self-discipline and con- 
trol that this will foster is not the least of the good 
results. 

18. Conserve your food intelligently and thus your 
health. Economy is spending not less, but more wisely. 
Much that is expended for food could be used with better 
and far more lasting advantage in some other way, 

19. Remember that good food may be wasted, or 
spoiled in the preparation, and that cooking should be 
a science as well as an art. 

20. Remember that hoiu you eat is quite as important 
as tvhat you eat, if not more so. Food eaten properly 
is much less liable to be taken in excess. Proper and 
thorough mastication will cover a multitude of dietetic 
sins. If you must hurry, eat less. 

21. Allow ample time for stomach digestion by suffi- 
cient rest between periods of work, so that this your 
faithful friend, upon the integrity of which so much de- 
pends, may not give out before its time. 

22. System and regularity are as important in the 
work of the digestive tract as in any other business. 
Therefore, plan for regular habits of eating. Never eat 
between meals. 

23. If fluid taken at meals hinders the proper masti- 
cation of your food, go on a dry diet. 

24. Do not forget that adherence to principle in eat- 
ing is an evidence of strength of character, and that he 
who eats to live will longer live to eat. 

25. Above all, do not be a fanatic. 

26. If you are sick, remember that your body requires 
the same food elements as in health, with a relative in- 
crease in vitamines, mineral salts, and complete proteins, 
and a relative decrease in bulk and in calories. 



CHAPTER XXXI 
RECIPES — SIMPLE, ECONOMICAL, HYGIENIC 

This book is 7wt a cookbook. But in order to help 
the housewife make practical application of the princi- 
ples laid down in the preceding chapters, and to acquaint 
her in a measure with simple hygienic methods of cook- 
ery, we append a few representative recipes that we 
trust may serve to introduce her into the art and science 
of healthful food preparation. 

To lend variety, many of these recipes may be modi- 
fied. The housewife already versed in the art of cook- 
ery may often be able to improve upon the recipe given, 
but we trust that she may do so with intelligent regard 
for food values. The size of the serving may often vary, 
but the calories given for the entire recipe will enable 
any one easily to estimate the value of any sized helping. 
A few of the recipes have been received directly from the 
bulletins sent out by the United States Department of 
Agriculture. For many we are indebted to our friends : 
Miss Lenna Frances Cooper, director of the Battle Creek 
Sanitarium School of Economics, and author of " The 
New Cookery;" Mr. H. S. Anderson, dietitian of the 
Loma Linda Sanitarium, and author of " Food and Cook- 
ery;" and to Mr. E. G. Fulton, for many years pro- 
prietor of the Vegetarian Cafeteria, Los Angeles, and 
author of the " Vegetarian Cookbook." A number of 
recipes have also been taken from the " Manual of Reci- 
pes " of the Washington Sanitarium, Washington, D. C. 

To these most excellent and reliable authorities on hy- 
gienic and scientific cookery, we would recommend those 
who desire to inquire further into the detail of Modern 
Culinary Art. 

284 



RECIPES 285 

(A) BREADS AND BREAKFAST DISHES 

1 Whole- Wheat Gems ("Manual of Recipes," 
Washington Sanitarium) 

1 egg 1 cup white flour 

1 cup milk % cup whole-wheat flour 

Salt to taste 

Break egg into batter bowl, add milk and salt. Sift 
flour before measuring and add it a handful at a time, 
beating briskly. Do not stir. Beat thoroughly for a 
few minutes, then pour into gem irons, heated, but not 
too hot, and slightly oiled. Bake 30 to 40 minutes. 

To make the mathematical calculation plain, we will 
work out entire the simple problem of estimating the 
food value for the recipe given above, referring to Table 
II in the Appendix : 

Protein Fat Carbo. Total 

1 egg 25 50 . . 75 (see p. 331) 

1 cup milk 30 83 47 160 (see p. 331) 

1 cup white flour 63 15 438 516 (seep. 341) 

■■•4 cup whole-wheat flour .. . 60 19 314 393 (seep. 341) 

Salt 

Total calories in recipe . . 178 167 799 1,144 

This will make about 12 gems. 

Dividing by 12, we find that each gem contains 15 
calories protein, 14 of fat, 67 of carbohydrate, — a total of 
96, making 16 per cent protein, 15 per cent fat, and 69 
per cent carbohydrate. 

2. Graham Puffs (" One Hundred Recipes/' Lenna 
Frances Cooper) 

1 egg IY2 cups Graham flour 

1 cup milk M: teaspoon salt 

Beat egg, add milk, salt, and lastly the Graham flour. 
Beat about five minutes or until batter is smooth. Fill 



286 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 



hot gem irons full to the brim, and bake in a moderate 
oven 20 to 30 minutes. Number of puffs, about 12. 

Calories in recipe: 



Protein 
172 



Fat 
181 



In one puff: 
14 15 



Carbohydrate 
668 



56 



Total 
1,021 

85 



Per Cent 
Protein 

17 



17 



Per Cent 
Fat 

18 



18 



Per Cent 
Carbo. 

65 



65 



3. Corn Bread Without Baking Powder (" Food and 
Cookery," Anderson) 

1 cup cornmeal 2 eggs (separated) 

2 tablespoons flour 1% cups boiling water 
1 tablespoon sugar 1% teaspoons salt 

Sift dry ingredients together, stir smooth with one 
cup of boiling water. With the remaining one-fourth 
cup of water, make a batter that will barely drop from 
the spoon. Beat eggs separately. Fold yolks into whites 
and turn them into the batter, folding them in with a 
wire batter whip; mix lightly, yet thoroughly. Pour 
into oiled granite pan and bake in a moderately hot 
oven 20 to 30 minutes. Number of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 

110 125 



In one serving: 

18 21 



545 



91 



780 



130 



Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


14 


16 


70 



14 



16 



70 



4. Cream Rolls (" Food and Cookery," Anderson) 

1% cups flour Mi cup thin cream 

% teaspoon salt 

Sift the flour and salt into the mixing bowl, pour the 
cream on all at once, and draw the flour in from the 
sides of the bowl, so as to mix evenly and not stir any 
into batter. Work it into a stiff dough in the bowl, 
then turn out on a slightly floured board and work to- 
gether for a few minutes; roll out to about one-third 
inch in thickness, with a dull knife cut into long strips 



Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


12 


22 


66 



RECIPES 287 

about one-third inch wide, roll on board, and cut into 
two-inch lengths. Lay in baking pan, leaving a little 
space between, and bake in a medium oven until crisp 
and a light brown. Number of rolls, 24. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 

106 226 681 1,013 

In one roll: 
5 9 28 42 12 22 66 

5. Whole-Wheat Sticks (" Food and Cookery," 
Anderson ) 

1 cup flour 1% tablespoons oil 

Ys cup whole-wheat flour i/4 teaspoon salt 

Ys cup cold water 

Emulsify the oil by beating thoroughly while adding 
water a drop at a time. This will take only a portion of 
the one-third cup of water. To the sifted flour and salt, 
add the oil, which has previously been emulsified, and 
rub evenly through the flour. Add the remainder of the 
water all at once and mix evenly. Knead on a board 
and roll out into one-third inch thickness. 

Cut with a dull knife into strips one-third inch wide 
and three inches long. Bake in medium oven. Number 
of sticks, 24. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 

90 202 578 870 

In one stick: 
4 8 24 36 10 23 67 

6. Com Dodgers (** Food and Cookery," Anderson) 

1 cup cornmeal (preferably 1 tablespoon brown sugar 

toasted lightly in oven) Y2 teaspoon salt 

1% tablespoons vegetable fat IY2 cups boiling water 

Mix all dry ingredients, add the fat, and pour on the 
boiling water all at once and stir smooth. A few table- 



Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


10 


23 


67 



Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


7 


30 


63 



288 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

spoons of water may be added if needed to make the 
batter of a consistency barely to drop from spoon but 
not run. Drop from the side of a large spoon into an 
oiled baking pan in oblong shapes, and bake in a quick 
oven. Number of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 

52 225 487 764 

In one serving: 

9 37 81 127 7 30 63 

7. Oatmeal Bread ' (Mrs. Jessica Hazard, Official Dem- 
onstrator Food Conservation Campaign) 

1 cup milk and water or all 1 cup rolled oats 

water 2i{. cups wheat flour (or sub- 

1 teaspoon salt stitute, as rice flour) 

1 tablespoon fat ^^ cake yeast dissolved in 

2 tablespoons sugar i/4 cup warm water 

Put oats through mill or grinder. Scald the liquid 
and pour it over the rolled oats, then add the sugar, fat, 
and salt. Let stand until about lukewarm (about half 
an hour) . Add yeast. Add flour and knead. Let rise 
until double its bulk. Knead again and place in pan. 
When light, bake in a moderate oven 45 to 90 minutes. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 

265 260 1,412 1,937 

In average slice: 
15 15 78 108 14 14 72 

8. " Rye and Injun Bread " 

2 cups cornmeal 2 tablespoons sugar 

4 cups rye flour 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons oil 1 cake compressed yeast 

4 cups water 



^ev Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 

Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


14 


14 


72 



^ United States Leaflet No. 6 gives the same recipe, omitting the sugar and fat 



RECIPES 289 

Dissolve yeast in cup warm water. Scald two-thirds 
cup cornmeal with three cups water. Let stand one-half 
hour or until lukewarm, and add yeast. Then add 2 
cups rye flour, one-third cup cornmeal, oil, sugar, and 
salt. Let this sponge rise. When light, add 1 cup corn- 
meal and 2 cups rye flour. Mold into two loaves as soft 
as can be handled. Let rise until twice its bulk. Bake. 



Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydi-ate 


Total 


Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


2H0 364 2,810 


3,434 


8 


10 


82 


In average slice: 










7 10 78 


95 


8 


10 


82 



9. Home-Ground Wheat Bread (Food Thrift Series 
No. 2, United States Department of Agriculture) 

3 cups wheat meal (or 2 cups ^^ calie compressed yeast 
wlieat meal and 1 eu)) 1 level teaspoon salt 
white flour) 1 level tablespoon sugar 

1^4 cups lukewarm water 1 level tablespoon shortening 

if desired 

Mix the yeast with a small amount of lukewarm 
water; dissolve the sugar and salt in the rest of the 
water; mix the two solutions and add all to the meal 
(or meal and flour). Mix thoroughly so that all the 
liquid is incorporated in the mass, cover, and set in a 
moderately warm place to rise. After about two hours, 
or when well risen, add the shortening and knead well, 
adding a little meal if necessary, until a smooth, elastic 
dough has been formed. Cover and set aside again to 
rise for an hour. Knead lightly, form into a loaf, place 
in a greased pan; allow to rise until just double in bulk 
(this is only two thirds of the usual rise in the pan 
when white bread is made). Bake slowly for three 
fourths of an hour. 

Calories per slice would vary slightly from bread as 
given in tables Chapter VI, in that there would be a 
somewhat higher proportion of protein. 
19 



290 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

10. Oven Toast (Zwieback) 

Cut bread in slices. Brown slowly in oven until crisp 
all through. Bread may be dried out in the sunshine 
before putting in oven. (For calories, see page 329.) 

11. Fruit Toast 

Use any canned or stewed fruit, or fruit juice. Heat, 
thicken slightly with cornstarch, and pour over mois- 
tened oven toast. Calories in one serving: 











Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 


Total 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


15 


7 


136 


158 


91/2 


41/2 


86 



12. Prune Flu£f Toast (" Manual of Recipes," 
Washington Sanitarium) 

% cup prune puree or 2 egg whites 

marmalade % cup sugar 

Vanilla or other flavoring 

Add sugar and flavoring to stiffly beaten whites. Add 
prune puree and beat well. Serve hot or cold on mois- 
tened oven toast. Oven toast may be moistened with 
cream if desired. Number of servings, 6. 
Calories in recipe (not including oven toast) : 











Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 


Total 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


53 


1 


386 


440 


12 




88 



In one serving (not including oven toast) : 

9 .. 64 73 12 .. 88 

If cream is added to the oven toast, the extra calories 
can easily be calculated. 

13. Cream Tomato Toast 

1 cup strained tomatoes % cup milk 

1 teaspoon sugar 1 teaspoon flour 

Heat tomatoes, add sugar and salt. Heat milk, thicken, 
and add slowly to heated tomato. (See recipe 27.) Use 
no soda. Serve on oven toast. Number of servings, 6. 



RECIPES 291 

Calories in recipe (not including oven toast): 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

31 68 109 208 15 33 52 

In one serving (not including oven toast) : 

5 11 18 34 15 33 52 

14. Cream Puree of Peas on Toast 

1 cup peas Flour 

1 cup (or less) milk Salt 

Press peas through a colander, add milk and salt, and 
thicken. Serve over moistened oven toast. 



Calories in recipe (not including oven 


toast) : 






Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 


Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


92 96 230 418 


22 


23 


55 



In one serving (not including oven toast) : 
15 16 38 69 22 23 55 

15. Cream Egg Toast 

1 pint milk Flour 

2 eggs Salt 

Scramble the eggs, add milk, thicken, and salt to taste. 
Pour over moistened oven toast. Minced parsley may 
be added. 



Calories 


in recipe (not including oven 


toast) : 






Protein 


Fat Carbohydrate Total 


Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


118 


274 146 538 


22 


51 


27 



In one serving (not including oven toast): 
19 46 24 89 22 51 27 

16. Nut Cream Toast 

Make cream sauce by thickening one pint of milk 
with flour. Rub one tablespoon of peanut butter 
smooth with water, and add. Salt. Reheat, and serve 
over oven toast. Number of servings, 6. 



292 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

Calories in recipe (not including oven toast) : 











Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


'rotein 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 


Total 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


85 


236 


156 


477 


18 


49 


33 



In one serving (not including oven toast): 
14 39 26 79 18 49 33 

17. Nut Tomato Toast 

1 can tomatoes strained 2 tablespoons browned flour 

2 tablespoons peanut butter Salt 

Emulsify peanut butter; add to strained tomato. 
Thicken with browned flour. Salt to taste. Heat and 
serve over whole-wheat oven toast which has first been 
dipped in hot water. Number of servings, 4 to 6, 

Calories in recipe (not including oven toast) : 

Protein 



Fat 


Carbohydrate 


Total 


Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


143 


196 


419 


19 


34 


47 



In one serving (not including oven toast), if four servings: 
20 36 49 105 19 34 47 

18. Hygienic Hot Cakes ("Vegetarian Cookbook/' 
E. G. Fulton) 

2 eggs 3,/. teaspoon salt 

2 cups bread crumbs 1 tablespoon sugar 

1^ cup flour About l^j cups milk 

Mix thoroughly the bread crumbs, flour, salt, and 
sugar. Add sufficient milk heated to 140° or 150° to 
make a thick pour batter, and into this beat the yolks 
of the eggs. Add the stiffly beaten whites and bake on 
a soapstone griddle. Be careful not to have the milk 
scalding hot. Number of cakes, 8. 

Calories iii recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 

179 260 669 1,108 

In one cake: 
22% 82% 83 138 16 23 61 



Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


16 


23 


61 



RECIPES 



293 



19. Oatmeal Gruel 

3 tablespoons rolled oats, or 1 pint water 

2 tablespoons oatmeal Salt to taste 

Add oats to the salted boiling water. Let boil 10 
minutes, then cook 3 hours in a double boiler. Strain 
and add one-half cup evaporated milk or cream. Num- 
ber of servings, 3. 

Calories in recipe if milk is used: 

Fat Carbohydrate Total 

276 



Protein 
49 



105 



In one serving: 
16 35 



122 



41 



Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


18 


38 


44 



92 



Calories in recipe if cream is used: 



Protein 
31 



Fat 
223 



Carbohydrate 
102 



Total 
356 



18 

Per Cent 
Protein 

9 



38 



44 



Per Cent Per Cent 
Fat Carbo. 

63 28 



In one serving: 
10 74 



34 118 9 63 28 

Note. — While usually considered invalid dishes, gruels 
make a pleasant variation from the monotony of the ordi- 
nary mush for even the healthy members of the family. 
They may be prepared as above from any other cereal. 
Very nice gruels may be made from left-over cereals. 
Reheat the left-over cereal and thin; press through a 
colander or strainer, and add milk or cream. Gruels 
may also be made from corn flakes, shredded wheat, etc., 
by softening in boiling water, running through a col- 
ander, and adding evaporated milk or cream. 

20. Gluten Gruel 

1 pint boiling water V2 cup 20-per-cent gluten meaP 

Salt to taste 

Add gluten to the boiling water, stirring constantly. 
Boil until thickened and add one-half cup cream or 
evaporated milk. Number of servings, 6. 



- Gluten is a meal made from wheat, and contains a higher proportion of pluten 
(wheat protein) than ordinai-y flour. This can be obtained from the Battle Creek 
Sanitarium. Battle Creek, Mich. Two grades may be obtained, containing 20- 
per-cent and 40-per-cent gluten, respectively. 



294 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 



Calories in recipe if evaporated milk is added: 



Protein 
89 


Fat 
91 


Carbohydrate 
294 


Total 
474 


Per Cent 
Protein 

18 


Per Cent 
Fat 

19 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 

63 


In one 

28 


serving: 
30 


98 


156 


18 


19 


63 



Calories in recipe if cream is added: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 



67 



209 



In one serving: 
22 70 



274 



91 



550 



183 



Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


12 


38 


50 



12 



38 



50 



21. Browned Rice 



Put rice in shallow pan and place in a moderate oven 
for about three fourths of an hour, or until rice is a 
golden brown. Stir occasionally. Then cook in a 
double boiler until tender. Serve with milk or cream. 

For calories in serving, see page 35. 

22. Baked Oats 

1 cup oatmeal or rolled oats 1 cup milk 

Salt 

Place oats in a pan or baking dish, 
miik. Add salt. Let stand all night. 



bake one hour in a moderate oven 
ings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 



Cover with the 
In the morning 
Number of serv- 



Protein 
130 



Fat 
126 



Carbohydrate 
484 



In one serving: 

22 21 



Total 

740 

123 



Per Cent 
Protein 

18 



18 



Per Cent Per Cent 
Fat Carbo. 

17 65 



17 



65 



(B) SOUPS 

23. Vegetable Bouillon ("Manual of Recipes,* 
Washington Sanitarium) 

1 pint strained tomatoes 2 medium-sized onions 

1 pint potato water % cup chopped celery 

1 pint split pea broth or bean broth 



RECIPES 



295 



Cook tomato, chopped onion, and celery together 
slowly one and one-half to two hours; add one bay leaf, 
a pinch of thyme and sage, broth from peas, and potato 
water. Strain through strainer, salt to taste, reheat, 
and serve. Number of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 

Carbohydrate 

317 



Protein 


Fat 


143 


95 


In one 


serving: 


24 


16 



Total 


Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


255 


26 


17 


57 



53 



93 



26 



17 



57 



(See also recipe, page 258.) 



24. Vegetable Broth 



Parings from 6 potatoes 
Parings from 3 or 4 carrots 
2 red onions 

1 cup strained tomato 

2 tablespoons oatmeal 



The tops of a bunch of celery 
1 cup or more of spinach water 
Celery salt 

Pinch of thyme or bay leaf 
Salt to taste 



Scrub thoroughly all vegetables before paring. Put to 
cook in cold water. Cook all the vegetables together 
with the oatmeal, slowly two or three hours, adding 
enough water so that there will be about one quart of 
broth when done. Or, after cooking for one-half hour, 
they may be placed in a tireless cooker. Strain, and add 
the spinach water and seasoning. Reheat and serve. 
Number of servings, 6. 



Calories in recipe: 



Protein 
143 



Fat 
62 



In one serving: 
24 10 



Carbohydrate 
195 



33 



Total 
400 

67 



Per Cent 
Protein 

35 



35 



Per Cent Per Cent 
Fat Carbo. 

15 50 



15 



50 



The above recipe can be varied in many ways. More 
or less of the mentioned vegetables may be used, and to 
these may be added many others, as lettuce leaves, cab- 
bage leaves, turnip parings, etc. 

The broth may be served without the spinach water. 



296 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

substituting water drained from potatoes or other vege- 
tables. Whole potatoes and carrots may be used. 

25. Potato Soup Stock 

5 or 6 large potatoes 2 or 3 onions (preferably red) 

Scrub thoroughly and cut up without paring potatoes 
or removing outer onion skins. Put to cook in two 
quarts of cold water. Let cook till done, adding more 
water if necessary. Press through a colander or 
strainer. The potato broth and puree, of which there 
will be about two quarts, may be used as a basis for 
the following soups, as well as for many others. 

In the making of this soup stock there may be cooked 
with the potato and onion any other vegetables, as car- 
rots, tomato, cabbage or lettuce leaves, celery tops, etc. 
Or the soup stock may be made from potato parings 
alone, with or without the parings and outer leaves of 
other vegetables. If parings alone are used, it will be 
well to cook with them two tablespoons of oatmeal or 
other cereal, that the soup stock may have sufficient 
body to it. 



Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate 


Total 


Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


50 10 420 


480 


11 


2 


87 



Note. — As much of the protein is near the skin, the 
more of the skins used the higher the relative protein 
content, until a broth (without the pulp) made from 
vegetable skins and leaves alone, may have the following 
high protein value: 
Calories in two quarts vegetable broth: 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

179 9 32 220 81 4 15 

26. Cream of Potato Soup 

Thin potato soup stock as necessary to make proper con- 
sistency, add one cup evaporated milk, one-half teaspoon 



RECIPES 



297 



thyme, and salt to taste. Chopped parsley may be used 
as seasoning instead of the thyme. Use no butter or 
other fat. Number of servings, 6. 



Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate 

110 182 508 

In one serving: 
18 30 85 



Total 
800 



133 



Per Cent 
Protein 

14 



14 



Per Cent 
Fat 

23 



23 



Per Cent 
Carbo. 

63 



63 



27. Cream of Tomato Soup 

To one and one-half pints potato soup stock, add one 
and one-half pints strained tomato. Salt to taste, and 
bring to boil. To the hot, but not boiling, tomato soup 
add one cup of hot condensed milk to which a little salt 
has been added. Serve at once. Another method to 
prevent curdling is to put all ingredients together cold, 
then heat and serve. Never use soda. Number of 
servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate 

115 191 366 

In one serving: 
19 32 61 112 17 29 



Total 
672 



Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 



Protein Fat 

17 29 



Carbo. 
54 

54 



28. Tomato Corn Soup 



1 cup potato soup stock 
1 can tomatoes 



1 can corn 
Salt 



Strain tomatoes, puree can of corn, or use without 
pureeing. Add both to potato soup stock. Thin, if 
necessary, with water or other vegetable broth. Salt to 
taste. Heat and serve. Number of servings, 6. 
Calories in recipe: 



Protein 
181 



Fat 
90 



In one serving: 
30 15 



Carbohydrate 

746 



124 



Total 
1,017 

169 



Per Cent 
Protein 

18 



18 



Per Cent Per Cent 
Fat Carbo. 

9 73 



73 



298 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

29. Tomato Gluten 

1 can tomatoes 1 onion 

Tops of bunch of celery % cup gluten 

Strain tomatoes. Cook celery tops with the onion one 
hour or longer and add the broth to strained tomato. 
Salt to taste. Boil and thicken by pouring in gradually 
the gluten, stirring well. Number of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 



Protein 
141 


Fat 
35 


Carbohydrate 
443 


Total 
619 


Per Cent 
Protein 

22 


Per Cent 
Fat 

6 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 

72 


In one 
23 


serving: 
6 


74 


103 


22 


6 


72 



30. Cream of Corn Soup 

To two pints potato soup stock, add two cups canned 
corn and one cup evaporated milk. Add water if neces- 
sary to make the soup the proper consistency. Salt to 
taste. The corn may or may not be put through a col- 
ander before adding to soup stock. Number of serv- 
ings, 8. 
Calories in recipe: 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

145 237 699 1,081 13 22 €5 

In one serving: 
18 30 87 143 13 22 65 

31. Cream of Bean Soup 

Cook two-thirds cup of beans. Press through a col- 
ander and add, with the bean broth, to one pint of 
potato soup stock. Thin as necessary and add one cup 
evaporated milk. Season with thyme and salt to taste. 
Number of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

187 19G 494 877 21 23 56 
In one serving: 
31 33 82 146 21 23 56 



RECIPES 299 

32. Tomato Bean Soup 

1 can tomatoes strained 1 cup beans 

1 pint potato soup stoclt Salt 

Celery salt 

Cook beans and press through a colander; add toma- 
toes and potato soup stock. Thin, if necessary, with 
water or other vegetable broth. Heat, .season with salt 
and celery salt. Number of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 



Protein Fat 

222 49 


Carbohydrate 
691 


Total 
962 


Per Cent 
Protein 

23 


Per Cent 
Fat 

5 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 

72 


In one serving: 
37 8 


115 


160 


23 


5 


72 





Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Total 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


821 


21 


23 


56 



33. Cream of Pea Soup 

Make as recipe 31, using green peas instead of beans. 
Number of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate 

169 187 465 

In one serving: 
28 31 78 137 21 23 56 



34. Cream of Celery Soup 

Cook with the potato slock the tops of one bunch of 
celery. Strain and add milk as for cream of potato soup. 
Salt to taste. Cut up celery and cook it separately. Add 
cooked celery to soup ; heat thoroughly and serve. Num- 
ber of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate 

125 184 529 

In one serving: 
21 31 88 140 15 22 63 





Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Total 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


838 


15 


22 


63 



Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


23 


32 


45 



300 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

35. Cream of Spinach Soup 

To one and one-half pints of potato soup stock, add one 
pint of spinach water or of spinach puree. Add one cup 
of evaporated milk, salt to taste. Number of servings, 6. 
Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 

124 178 254 556 

In one serving: 
21 30 42 93 23 32 45 

Note. — To any of the above soups may be added the 
water in which any vegetable has been cooked. Various 
combinations may be made, with many pleasing results 
in delicious and savory flavors. Beet juice, turnip water, 
asparagus broth, etc., may be added in varying amounts, 
depending upon individual preference, and there need be 
no monotony in the soups served. Cream may be used 
instead of milk ; or, if preferred, the soups may be served 
without the addition of milk or cream. If served with- 
out milk or cream, it may be an advantage to thicken 
them slightly with a cereal, as gluten, cream of barley, 
or oatmeal. Left-over cereal may be added to the soups 
with satisfactory results. In addition to salt, other 
seasonings, as parsley, thyme, bay leaf, sweet basil, may 
be used. But no fat of any kind need ever be added. 

36. Tomato Bisque 

2 cups strained tomato 2 teaspoons peanut buttei', 

1 cup water rubbed smooth in water 

1 cup bean brotli or potato Salt 

water 
Put all together and cook well. Salt to taste. Number 
of servings, 4. 

Calories in recipe if made with bean broth: 



Protein 

57 


Fat 
51 


Carbohydrate 
194 


Total 
302 


Per Cent 
Protein 

18 


Per Cent 
Fat 

17 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 
65 


In one 
14 


serving: 
13 


48 


75 


18 


17 


65 



RECIPES 



301 



Calories in recipe if made with potato water: 

Per Cent 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate 

45 25 106 176 25 
In one serving: 
11 6 26 43 25 



Per Cent Per Cent 
13 62 



13 



62 



37. Vegetarian Consomme 

Skins of 6 or 8 potatoes Tops of bunch of celery 

3 red onions Tops of bunch of carrots 

1 can tomatoes, strained 

Turnip or beet tops or spinach may be used. Put all, 
except the tomato, to cook in cold water. Cook slowly 
one and one-half to two hours. Drain off the rich brown 
liquor, to which add the tomato juice, and salt to taste. 
Reheat and serve. Number of servings, 6. 
Calories in recipe: 



Protein 

215 



Fat 
24 



In one serving: 

;'.(; 4 



Cai'bohydrate 
152 



25 



Total 
391 



65 



Per Cent 
Protein 

55 



55 



Per Cent 
Fat 

6 



Per Cent 
Carbo. 

39 



39 



38. Corn Chowder 



1 medium onion 

\i teaspoon celery salt 
1 pint bean broth 
3 hard-boiled eggs, diced 
3 potatoes, diced 



1 pint tomato water 
1 cup canned corn 
1 cup strained tomato 
Salt to taste 
Pinch of sage 



Add diced potatoes and grated onion to the bean broth 
and tomato. Cook until potatoes are tender, add rest 
of ingredients and milk to make two quarts. Thicken 
the milk slightly before adding. Number of servings, 8. 



Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 



210 



207 



In one serving: 
26 26 



497 



62 



914 



114 



Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


23 


23 


54 



23 



23 



54 



302 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

39. Vegex Broth 

Mix one teaspoon Vegex with one cup boiling water, 
and serve. Vegex may be added in this proportion to 
other soups and to gravies. It gives a very meaty flavor. 

Calories in serving of five ounces: 











Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 


Total 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


20 


2 




22 


91 


9 





Note. — Vegex is a vegetable extract obtainable at 
large grocery houses. There are other like preparations 
on the market, as herbex, savora, etc., which may be 
used in the same way. 

(C) MEAT SUBSTITUTES AND ENTREES 

40. Bean Croquettes 

2 cups mashed beans Sage 

1 cup tomato pulp with juice Salt 
1 egg (or more if desired) Celery salt 

1 minced onion 

Mix, roll in corn flakes or oven-toast crumbs and egg, 
shape into patties, and bake in oven. Serve with brown 
sauce or tomato sauce. (See recipes 68 and 69.) Num- 
ber of croquettes, 10. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate 

289 150 753 

In one croquette: 
29 15 75 119 24 13 63 

41. Ribbon Loaf (Washington Sanitarium) 

1 cup navy beans 1 cup evaporated milk 

1 cup pink or kidney beans Salt 

Cook separately till tender and quite dry. Salt while 
cooking. Rub through a colander. Add one-half cup 
of evaporated milk (or cream) to each kind of beans. 



Total 


Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 

Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


1,192 


24 


13 


63 



RECIPES 



303 



Place beans, in alternate layers, in a pan and brown 
slightly in a moderate oven. Number of servings, 6, 



Calories in recipe: 



Protein 
406 



Fat 

226 



In one serving: 
68 38 



Carbohydrate 
994 

165 



Total 
1,626 

271 



Per Cent 
Protein 

25 



25 



Per Cent Per Cent 
Fat Carbo. 

14 61 



14 



61 



42. Potose Patties or Loaf 



1 onion grated 

2 tomatoes or their equivalent 

in canned tomatoes 
Pinch of thyme or sage 



Salt to taste 
1 egg 

\i pound can of protose 
1 cup zwieback crumbs 



Put in a dish all the ingredients except the egg and 
the crumbs. Moisten the crumbs with hot water or hot 
vegetable broth, beat egg and add to the crumbs, then mix 
all together well. The whole should be sufficiently moist 
to mold into patties. Cut the patties through the center 
and brown in a slightly oiled pan over the fire or bake 
in the oven. Or it may be baked in the form of a loaf. 
Serve with brown gravy. Number of servings, 6. 
Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate 

162 133 282 



Total 


Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


577 


28 


23 


49 



la one serving: 
27 22 



47 



96 



28 



23 



49 



43. Protose writh Onion 



1 pound protose 

1 cup strained tomato 



1/2 teaspoon salt 
2 large onions 



Pinch of sage 



Slice the protose and the onion and place in dish in 
alternate layers. Cover with strained tomato, add the 



^ Protose is a food preparation manufactured by the Battle Creek Health Food 
Company, Battle Creek, Mich. Its food value approximates that of meat. It may 
()e obtained at any grocery store carrying Battle Creek Sanitarium Foods, or by 
sendins? direct to Battle Creek. A like preparation under the name Nut Cero is 
made by the St. Helena Sanitarium Food Company. Nuttolene is also a meat sub- 
stitute, put out by the Battle Creek Health Food Company. 



304 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 



salt and sage. Bake in a slow oven for an hour or more. 
Watch carefully, and if protose seems dry, add water. 
Brown sauce may be used instead of tomato. To obtain 
best results, use plenty of liquid. More satisfactory re- 
sults may be obtained by covering well with the sauce, 
and baking in a covered baking dish. Number of serv- 
ings, 8. 



Calories in recipe: 



Protein 
390 



Fat 
267 



In one serving: 
49 33 



Carbohydrate 
264 



33 



Total 
921 



lit 



Per Cent 
Protein 

43 



Per Cent 
Fat 

29 



29 



Per Cent 
Carbo. 

28 



28 



44. Braised Protose 

Cut one pound of protose in half slices one-half inch 
thick. Lay in an oiled pan and warm through slowly 
in a moderate oven. Number of servings, 8. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Cai-bohydrate Total 

390 269 264 



In one serving: 
49 33 



921 



115 



Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


43 


29 


28 



29 



45. Nut Fillet 

1/2 lb. nuttolene Salt 

1/2 lb. protose Celery salt 

1 onion Sage 

Brown sauce (see recipe 68) 

Cut nuttolene and protose in half slices one-fourth inch 
thick. Arrange in an oiled pan a layer each of protose and 
nuttolene, with a slice of onion between, placing nutto- 
lene on the bottom. A toothpick through the center of 
each layer will hold protose and nuttolene in place. 
Sprinkle with salt, celery salt, and sage. Cover well 
with brown sauce and bake about three fourths of an 
hour in a moderate oven. Strained tomatoes or tomato 



RECIPES 305 

sauce may be used instead of brown sauce. Number of 
servings, 8. 
Calories in recipe: 



Protein Fat Carbohydrate 
353 363 276 


Per Cent Per Cent 
Total Protein Fat 

992 36 37 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 

27 


In one serving: 
45 46 35 


126 36 


37 


27 


46. Protose and Potato Hash 






4 to 6 potatoes 
V- lb. protose 


1 chopped onion 
Salt 







Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 

Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


24 


13 


63 



Chop potatoes, protose, and onion, and mix thor- 
oughly. Brown in a skillet or in an oven. The mixture 
may be formed into patties if desired. Number of serv- 
ings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 

249 137 646 1,032 

In one serving: 
41 23 108 172 24 13 63 

47. Homemade Protose 

2 cups peanut butter 3 tablespoons cornstarch 

2 cups mashed beans 1 teaspoon chopped onion 

4 cups water (or better, potato Pinch of sage 

water or other vegetable Salt to taste 

broth) 

Mix ingredients thoroughly, and steam in double 
boiler three hours, stirring occasionally. Let cool. Run 
knife around edge and turn out. Cut in slices. It may 
be served cold with tomato sauce or used in any recipe 
calling for protose. This will make about three pounds 
of protose and 24 servings. 

Calories in recipe: 











Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 


Total 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


715 


1,887 


952 


3,554 


20 


53 


27 



In one serving: 
30 79 40 149 20 53 27 

20 



306 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 



Note. — This protose is much higher in fat, with less 
protein, than Battle Creek Sanitarium protose. How- 
ever, it is fairly high in protein and may be used with 
advantage. Care should be taken that it be served with 
gravies not too rich in fat. 

48. Cottage Cheese Omelet 

2 eggs Yi teaspoon salt 

V2 cup milk 1/2 cup cottage cheese 

Add milk and salt to the egg; beat thoroughly. Add 
cottage cheese and beat again. Bake in a moderate 
oven twenty to thirty minutes. Number of servings, 2. 

Calories in recipe: 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

125 182 37 344 36 53 11 

In one serving: 
62 91 18 171 36 53 11 

49. Cottage Cheese and Nut Roast (Food Thrift Series 
No. 2, United States Department of Agriculture) 

1 cup cottage cheese 2 tablespoons chopped onions 

1 cup chopped English walnuts Juice of % lemon 
1 cup bread crumbs Salt to taste 

Cook the onion slowly in a little water until tender. 
Mix the other ingredients and moisten with the water 
in which the onion has been cooked. Pour into a shallow 
baking dish and brown. Number of servings, 10. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 

295 1,044 334 1,673 

In one serving: 
30 104 33 167 



Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


18 


62 


20 



18 



62 



20 



50. Boston Roast (Food Thrift Series, United States 
Department of Agriculture) 

2 cups mashed beans 2 tablespoons chopped onion 

1 cup cottage cheese Salt 

Bread crumbs as needed Celery salt or sage 



RECIPES 



307 



Cook onions in a little water until tender. Add onions 
and cheese to the beans and bread crumbs to make mix- 
ture stiff enough to be formed into a roll. Bake in a 
moderate oven, basting occasionally with a little oil and 
water. Serve with tomato sauce. (See recipe 69.) 
Number of servings, 10. 



Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 

380 134 677 1,191 

In one serving: 
38 13 68 119 



Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 



Protein 
32 

32 



Fat 
11 



11 



Carbo. 

57 



57 



51. Carrot and Nut Loaf 



1 cup mashed carrots 

2 eggs 

1 onion minced 



y2 cup chopped walnuts 
Bread crumbs as needed 
Salt 



Mix thoroughly, adding enough bread crumbs to make 
it the proper consistency. Bake in oiled pan, slice, and 
serve with tomato sauce. Number of servings, 8. 

Calories in recipe without sauce: 

Protein Fat 

127 578 

In one serving: 

16 72 24 112 





■ 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Carbohydi-ate 


Total 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


193 


898 


14 


64 


22 



14 



64 



22 



52. Eggplant Croquettes 



2 (or 3) eggs, well beaten 
Salt to taste 



1 medium-sized eggplant 
Bread or cracker crumbs 

Boil, drain, and mash eggplant, and add bread or 
cracker crumbs until right consistency to handle. Shape 
into croquettes, and roll in bread or cracker crumbs. 
Bake in oiled pan. Number of servings, 8. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 

141 184 555 880 

In one serving: 
18 23 69 110 



Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


16 


21 


63 



16 



21 



63 



Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


14 


63 


23 



308 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

53. Celery and Nut Roast 

2 eggs 1 cup chopped celery 

lYo cups milk I's cups fine toasted crumbs 

% cup finely chopped nuts 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon grated onion 

Beat the eggs, add milk, nuts, salt, crumbs, onion, and 
celery. Let stand twenty minutes. Bake in an oiled tin 
about thirty minutes or until well browned. To remove, 
turn upside down on a platter and cover with a cloth 
wrung out of cold water, allowing it to stand a few min- 
utes or until loosened from the pan. Garnish with pars- 
ley and serve with parsley sauce or cream sauce. Num- 
ber of servings, 8. 

Calories in recipe without sauce: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 

212 943 356 1,511 

In one serving: 
26 118 45 189 14 G3 23 

54. Nut Tomato Rice 

Make sauce same as for recipe 17. Boil one cup of 
rice. Add sauce. Reheat and serve, or bake in a mod- 
erate oven for twenty minutes. Number of servings, 6. 
Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 

154 150 930 1,234 

In one serving: 
26 25 155 206 13 12 75 

55. Nut Tomato Macaroni 

Prepare as in recipe 54, but bake thirty to forty min- 
utes. Number of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 

139 152 520 811 

In one serving: 
23 25 87 135 17 18 65 



Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


13 


12 


75 



Per Cent 
Pi-otein 


Per Cent 

Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


17 


18 


65 



RECIPES 309 

56. Puree of Green Peas with Tomato Sauce 

1 cup pea puree ^2 cup zwieback crumbs 

2 tablespoons evaporated milk 

Mix well and salt to taste. Bake in a moderate oven. 
For tomato sauce, see recipe 69. Number of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: „ „ „ ^ . ^ ^ . 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

129 96 479 704 18 14 68 

In one serving: 
21 16 80 117 18 14 68 

57. Croquettes of Split Peas (" Food and Cookery," 

Anderson ) 

1 cup mashed peas 2 teaspoons cream 

1^ cup oven-toast crumbs 1 tablespoon grated onion 

Put the cream and onion into a small saucepan on the 
stove and reduce to about one third. Mix all ingredients 
well, roll into round balls about the size of an egg, and 
form into oblong croquettes with a knife, having them 
about one inch thick, one inch wide, and one and one-half 
inches long. Mark the top with a knife. Brush over 
lightly with milk or cream and bake on the top grate in 
a hot oven. Number of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: „ ^ „ ^ . ,, ^ . 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

76 92 277 445 18 21 61 

In one serving: 
13 15 4G 74 18 21 61 

Note. — Croquettes may be made in this way from 
any legume or from corn. 

58. Baked Puree of Lentils with Tomato Sauce 

1 cup lentil puree 2 tablespoons evaporated milk 

l<2 cup zwieback crumbs 

Mix well. Salt to taste. Bake in moderate oven. For 
tomato sauce, see recipe 69. Number of servings, 6. 



310 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 



Calories in recipe: 



Protein 
133 



Fat 

92 



In one serving: 
22 15 



Carbohydrate 

467 



78 



Total 
692 

115 



Protein 
20 

20 



Per Cent Per Cent 



Fat 
13 



13 



Carbo. 
67 

67 



Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


15 


2 


83 



(D) VEGETABLES 

59. Browned Potatoes 

1 quart steamed potatoes 1 pint brown sauce 

(about 6) 

Place the potatoes in a dripping pan and cover with 
brown sauce (see recipe 68). Put in the oven and bake 
twenty to thirty minutes. Number of servings, 6. 
Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 

117 17 639 773 

In one serving: 
19 3 107 129 15 2 83 

Note. — The same recipe may be used, using potatoes 
raw instead of steamed and baking them until tender. 
More brown sauce will be needed. 

60. Potato Puffs ("Manual of Recipes," Washington 
Sanitarium) 

Add two eggs to one quart well-beaten mashed pota- 
toes, beat well. Drop on oiled tin and brown in hot 
oven. Number of servings, 8. 



Calories in recipe: 



Protein 
123 



Fat 
295 



In one serving: 
15 37 



Carbohydrate 

500 



62 



Total 
918 



114 



Per Cent 
Protein 

13 



13 



Per Cent Per Cent 
Fat Carbo. 

32 55 



32 



55 



61. Stuffed Potatoes 

Bake large potatoes. When done remove from oven. 
Cut in halves lengthwise, and remove from skins. Place 



RECIPES 311 

all together in pan. Mash well, beating till fluffy; add 
evaporated milk or cream. Salt to taste. Replace in 
skins, brown for a few minutes in oven, serve. 
Calories in potato when ready to serve: 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

16 31 88 135 12 23 65 

62. Spinach Souffle ("The New Cookery," Lenna 
Frances Cooper) 

1 cup minced spinach % cup milk 

3 eggs beaten separately % cup flour 

Yo teaspoon salt 

Rub flour and salt together; heat the milk and add 
slowly to the above, stirring to keep smooth; then add 
the spinach, the yolks beaten well, and lastly, the stiffly 
beaten whites. Bake twenty to thirty minutes in a mod- 
erate oven. Number of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 



Protein 

136 


Fat 

227 


Carbohydrate 
174 


Total 
537 


Per Cent 
Protein 

26 


Per Cent 
Fat 

43 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 

31 


In one 
23 


serving: 
38 


29 

63. 


89 
Spinach 


26 


43 


31 



Wash thoroughly. Put to cook, adding very little, if 
any, water. Watch carefully so it does not scorch, or 
cook it in a double boilei. Cook twenty to thirty min- 
utes. When done, drain, chop fine, and salt. Serve with 
lemon, and, if desired, sliced hard-boiled eggs. Add no 
fat. For calories, see pages 334 and 344. 

Another very satisfactory way to cook spinach is to 
steam it. Do not put directly in steamer, but set in 
steamer the pan in which it is to be cooked. Cover well, 
so that steam will come in contact with spinach over 
sides of smaller pan. Other vegetables may be cooked in 
this way. 



312 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

64. Scalloped Eggplant 

1 eggplant 1 egg 

1 cup milk % cup oven-toast crumbs 

Salt 

Quarter the eggplant and cook in boiling water until 
tender. Drain, salt, and beat up with a fork. Add milk, 
egg, and oven-toast crumbs. Corn flakes or cracker 
crumbs may be used instead of the toast crumbs. Season 
with sage if desired. Bake thirty minutes in moderate 
oven. Number of servings, 6. 
Calories in recipe: 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

108 164 293 565 19 29 52 
In one serving: 
18 27 49 94 19 29 52 

65. Baked Carrots 

Slice four large carrots and place them in baking dish 
with alternate layers of corn flakes. Cover with milk. 
Season with salt. Bake in slow oven about forty-five 
minutes. Number of servings, 6. 
Calories in recipe: 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

54 99 162 315 16 30 54 

In one serving: 
9 16 27 54 16 30 54 

Note. — For bananas served as a vegetable, see recipes 
108 and 109. 

(E) GRAVIES 

66. Egg Gravy 

1 egg Flour 

iy2 cups potato water Salt 

% cup milk or evaporated milk Celery salt 

Scramble egg, chop well, add potato water, seasoning, 
and milk. Number of servings, 6. 



RECIPES 



313 



Calories in recipe with milk: 

Carbohydrate 



Protein 

82 



Fat 
93 



Total 
263 



In one serving: 
14 15 



15 44 

Calories in recipe with evaporated milk: 



Protein 

97 



Fat 
134 



In one serving 
16 22 



Carbohydrate 
112 



19 



Total 
343 

57 



Per Cent 
Protein 

32 



32 



Per Cent 
Protein 

28 



Per Cent Per Cent 



Fat 

34:", 



34 



Carbo. 
33?, 



34 



Per Cent Per Cent 
Fat Carbo. 

39 33 



39 



33 



67. Nut Gravy (" Vegetarian Cookbook," E. G. Fulton) 



1 pint water 

1 cup strained tomato 



1 dessertspoon peanut butter 
Flour as necessary 



Emulsify nut butter with tomato, add the water and 
the rest of the tomato. Thicken with flour. Number of 
servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 



Protein 
37 



Fat 

69 



In one serving: 
6 11 



Carbohydrate 
108 



IS 



Total 
214 



36 



Per Cent 
Protein 

17 



17 



Per Cent Per Cent 
Fat Carbo. 

32 51 



32 



51 



68. Brov^rn Sauce 



3 tablespoons flour 

Salt 

Sage 

Juice of V. lemon 



4 potatoes or the parings of 6 

potatoes 
2 red onions 
1 tomato 

Scrub the vegetables thoroughly, do not peel, cut up, 
and cook as for potato soup stock (recipe 25). Strain 
off one pint (or more) of the broth for the brown sauce. 
(Use the remainder, after straining through a colander, 
for soup.) Brown the flour in the oven or in a dry pan 
over the flame. Rub it smooth with water and thicken 
the vegetable broth. Add the juice of one-half lemon, a 
pinch of sage, salt to taste. Other vegetable broths or 
simply potato water may be used in the preparation of 



314 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 



this gravy. The addition of a little cereal coffee will 

deepen the brown color. Number of servings, 6. 
Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 

57 11 105 173 
In one serving: 

9 2 17 28 32 7 61 



Per Cent 
Protein 



32 



Per Cent Per Cent 
Fat Carbo. 

7 61 



69. Tomato Sauce 

1 pint strained tomatoes 1 tablespoon minced onion 

Flour browned as in recipe 68 

Cook tomato and onion together twenty minutes, 
strain, thicken with the browned flour. Season with 
salt. Number of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 



Protein 
33 



Fat 
59 



In one serving: 
5 10 



Carbohydrate 
142 



24 



Total 
234 

39 



Per Cent 
Protein 

14 



14 



Per Cent Per Cent 
Fat Carbo. 

25 61 



25 



70. Olive Sauce 

12 ripe olives 2 cups brown sauce 

Chop olives and stew slowly two or three hours, 
to brown sauce. Number of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 

52 214 135 401 
In one serving: 

9 36 22 67 



61 



Add 



Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


13 


54 


33 



13 



54 



33 



71. Pea Tomato Sauce 

2 cups green pea puree 1 cup strained tomato 

Add the strained tomato to the green pea puree, and 
salt to taste. Heat and serve. A little browned flour 
may be used as thickening if desired. Number of serv- 
ings, 6 to 12. 



RECIPES 315 

Calories in recipe: 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

148 21 448 617 24 3 73 
In one serving if six servings: 
25 3 75 103 24 3 73 

72. Vegex Gravy 

Add Vegex (see note under recipe 39) to any gravy 
in the proportion of one teaspoon Vegex to one pint 
gravy. 



(F) SALADS 

73. Grape Salad 

1 cup white grapes 1 egg 

Ys cup blue grapes Marshmallows as desired 

1 cup sliced pineapple i^ cup fruit juice 

Seed grapes, and remove skins from white grapes. 
Thicken one-half cup fruit juice and add to beaten egg 
and pour over grapes and pineapple. Section marsh- 
mallows and add to salad just before serving. Number 
of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 



Protein Fat 


Carbohydrate 


Per Cent 
Total Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


31 65 


229 


325 9 


20 


71 


In one serving: 










5 11 


38 

74. 


54 9 

Fruit Salad 


20 


71 


2 apples 




2 bananas 






3 oranges 




1 small can 


pineapple 





Yz cup chopped nuts 

Cut up the fruit and mix, together with the chopped 
nuts. Add pineapple juice, which will serve as a dress- 
ing (or omit pineapple and add cream dressing). Num- 
ber of servings, 6. 



316 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

Calories in recipe: x, ^ . r, ^ * x. r^ * 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

75 397 615 1,087 7 42 51 
In one serving: 

13 66 102 181 7 42 51 

75. Apple and Celery Salad (" Manual of Recipes," 
Washington Sanitarium) 

2 apples Cream dressing or golden 

Yj cup celery dressing 

Dice apples, chop celery, mix, and add dressing. 
Number of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe witliout dressing: 

Percent Per Cent Per Cent 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

4 11 120 135 4 9 87 
In one serving: 

1 2 20 23 4 9 87 



r 



76. Grapefruit Salad 

Remove pulp from grapefruit and cut up. Add to this 
diced apples, sliced bananas, raisins or shredded dates, 
and chopped nuts. Add a dressing of grapefruit juice 
and honey. Replace in grapefruit skins. If one serving 
includes grapefruit, one third of a banana, one third of 
an apple, ten raisins, three walnuts, and one teaspoon of 
honey, the calories in each will be, approximately: 











Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


'rotein 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 


Total 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


20 


88 


167 


275 


7 


32 


61 



77. Carrot and Cottage Cheese Salad 

1 cup ground or grated y^ cup cottage cheese 

carrots Juice 1 large lemon 

Ys cup chopped nuts Salt to taste 

Mix thoroughly. Number of servings, 6. 
Calories in recipe: 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

106 354 119 579 19 61 20 

In one serving: 

18 59 20 97 19 61 20 



RECIPES 



317 



78. Tomato and Lettuce Salad 

;! tomatoes 1 large head lettuce 

Shred the lettuce and slice the tomatoes. Arrange in 
alternate layers in salad dish and cover with cream 
dressing (see recipes 87 and 88), or lemon dressing may 
be used. Number of servings, 6. 
Calories in recipe: 



Protein 
40 



Fat 

487 



In one serving: 

7 81 



Carbohydrate 
174 

29 



Total 
701 

117 



Per Cent 
Protein 

6 



Per Cent 
Fat 

69 



69 



Per Cent 
Carbo. 

25 



25 



79. Cabbage Salad 

1 medium cabbage shredded. Serve with cream dress- 
ing. (See recipes 87 and 88.) Number of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate 

62 224 109 

In one serving: 
10 :57 18 65 15 58 27 



Total 


Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


395 


15 


58 


27 



80. String Bean Salad 

Let two cups cooked string beans stand for one hour 
in lemon juice. Drain and serve with French salad 
dressing or mayonnaise. Number of servings, 6. Green 
peas may be served in the same way. 

Calories in recipe without dressing: 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

10 10 30 50 20 20 60 
In one serving: 



20 



60 



81. Italian Salad ('' Food and Cookery/' Anderson) 

1 cup cooked macaroni cut % cup finely diced raw carrots 

into small rings l^ cup cooked green peas 

1/2 cup diced celery 2 teaspoons grated onion 

Mayonnaise 



Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


18 


4 


78 



318 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

Mix all ingredients. Season with lemon dressing; 
serve on lettuce leaf. Number of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 

65 14 287 366 

In one serving: 
11 2 48 61 18 4 78 

82. Raw Vegetable Salad 

Use any combination of raw vegetables, chopped or 
cut into small cubes. Mix with mayonnaise or cream 
salad dressing or lemon juice and salt. Any or all of the 
following may be used : Carrots, turnips, beets, radishes, 
cabbage, lettuce, potatoes, celery, onions, parsley, cucum- 
ber, tomato. 

Calories in one serving (approximately) without dressing: 











Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 


Total 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


7 


4 


24 


35 


20 


11 


69 



83. Tomato Jelly (" The New Cookery," Lenna Frances 

Cooper) 

1 can tomatoes i/^ cup lemon juice 

3 bay leaves % box vegetable gelatin 

1 medium onion (i/4 oz.) 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup boiling water 

2 tablespoons sugar 

Put the tomatoes with the seasoning to cook until re- 
duced one third. Then rub through colander. Prepare 
the vegetable gelatin by soaking in warm water about 
twenty minutes, draining, and cooking eight to ten min- 
utes in one cup of boiling water. When cooked and 
strained, add to the tomatoes, turn into molds, and set 
in a cool place. The jelly may be cut into cubes or 
other shapes if desired and used as a garnish, or may 
be served as a salad with mayonnaise dressing. Number 
of servings, 12. 



RECIPES 



319 



Calories in recipe without mayonnaise: 



Protein 

45 



Fat 
17 



Carbohydrate Total 

326 388 



Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 



In one serving: 
4 1 



27 



32 



Protein 
11 

12 



Fat 
4 



Carbo. 
85 



85 



84. Cucumber Jelly ("The New Cookery," Lenna 
Frances Cooper) 

1% cups cucumber pulp i/4 cup lemon juice 

% package vegetable gelatin 1 cup water 
(14 oz.) ^2 teaspoon salt 

A few drops of onion juice 

To prepare the cucumber pulp, peel the cucumbers and 
grate them; strain through a colander, pressing through 
as much liquid as possible; add the lemon, onion juice, 
and salt. Prepare the vegetable gelatin as for tomato 
jelly and cook in one cup boiling water five to ten min- 
utes. Strain and add to the juices. Turn into molds 
wet with cold water and let stand until firm. Serve in 
a lettuce leaf, with or without mayonnaise. Number of 
servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe without mayonnaise: 



Protein Fat 
7 4 


Carbohydrate 
53 


Total 
64 


Per Cent 
Protein 

11 


Per Cent 
Fat 

6 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 

88 


In one serving: 
1 1 


8 


10 


11 


6 


83 



(G) SALAD DRESSINGS 
85. Mayonnaise Dressing 



2 egg yolks 
Juice of li/> lemons 



A little grated onion 
Olive oil or salad oil as needed 
(about 1 cup) 



The ingredients should be cold, having been on ice if 
possible. 



320 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

Pour oil into egg yolks very slowly at first, drop by 
drop, beating constantly. Keep adding oil until eggs are 
very stiff, then add one teaspoon salt, the lemon juice, 
and grated onion or onion juice. If yolks and oil sepa- 
rate, add the beaten whites. Otherwise the whites need 
not be used unless desired. 

Calories in serving of heaping teaspoon: 



Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein 


Per Cent Per Cent 
Fat Carbo. 


50 .. 50 


100 


86. French Dressing 




2 teaspoons lemon juice Salt 




2 tablespoons olive oil Grated onion 


or 14 teaspoon 


onion juice 


Number of servings, 8 or one teaspoon 


each. 


Calories per teaspoon: 

Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein 


Per Cent Per Cent 
Fat Carbo. 


34 .. 34 


100 



Note. — This dressing is very nice with the oil omitted. 

87. Cream Dressing, No. 1 

Vu cup evaporated milk Vi teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon sugar 1 lemon 

Beat milk, add sugar, salt, then lemon juice. Beat 
well. Number of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: ^ n ^ ^ n ^ ^ n * 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein F?t Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

31 87 82 200 15 44 41 

In one serving: 

15 14 34 15 44 41 

88. Cream Dressing, No. 2 

\U cup thick cream Juice of 2 lemons 

1 egg yolk 1 teaspoon sugar 

14 teaspoon salt 

Boil the yolk for twenty minutes, or until quite mealy. 
Break up with a fork and add to cream. Press through 



RECIPES 



321 



a fine sieve. Add sugar and salt; last of all, add the 
lemon juice, a few drops at a time, beating the cream 
with a fork. If the cream is thin, add two tablespoons 
evaporated milk; or all evaporated milk may be used 
instead of cream. Number of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate 

7 477 70 

In one serving: 

1 79 12 92 1 86 13 





Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Total 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


554 


1 


86 


13 



89. Golden Dressing 



J eggs 
Vi cup sugar 



cup light-colored fruit 
juice (orange, apple, 
or pineapple) 



14 cup lemon juice 

Beat the eggs slightly to blend, but not until foamy, 
and add fruit juice, lemon juice, and sugar. Stir con- 
stantly in a double boiler until it begins to thicken. Cool 
and serve. Number of servings, 6. 



Calories in recipe: 



Protein 
50 



Fat 
100 



In one serving: 
8 16 



Carbohydrate 
260 



44 



Total 
410 



68 



Per Cent 

Protein 

12 



12 



Per Cent Per Cent 



Fat 

241/2 

241/0 



Carbo. 
631/2 

631/2 



(H) DESSERTS 



90. Cereal Pudding 

1 cup cooked oatmeal or % cup Karo sirup 

other left-over cereal I/2 cup nuts 

1 egg, or more if desired 

Put all together in a double boiler; when smooth, turn 
into an oiled pan and bake three fourths of an hour. 
Serve with lemon sauce. Number of servings, 6. 

21 



322 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

Calories in recipe without sauce: 











Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


rotein 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 


Total 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


93 


432 


604 


1,129 


8 


38 


54 



In one serving: 
15 72 101 188 8 38 54 

91. Lemon Sauce ("Vegetarian Cookbook," E. G. 

Fulton) 

1 cup sugar 1 lemon 

1 egg % cup boiling water 

Put grated rind and the juice of lemon with the sugar; 
add the beaten egg; add the boiling water just before 
serving. Cook slowly; do not boil. Number of serv- 
ings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: „ „ „ ^ „ 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

25 50 855 930 3 5 92 

In one serving: 

4 8 143 155 3 5 92 

92. Farina Mold (" Manual of Recipes," Washington 
Sanitarium ) 

4 cups water ^/1> cup sugar 

1 cup farina or cream of Pinch of salt 

wheat Flavoring as desired 

Cook farina one hour in double boiler, add sugar, salt, 
and flavoring. Pour into molds, chill, serve with fruit 
juice. Number of sei-vings, 6. 



Protein Fat 

57 17 


yc 


Carbohydrate 
820 


Per Cent 
Total Protein 

894 6 


Per Cent 

Fat 

2 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 

92 


In one serving: 
9 3 






137 

93. 


149 6 

Fruit Sauce 


2 


92 


1 cup red fruit 
% cup sugar 


juice 


Vt cup lemon 
Cornstarch 


juice 





RECIPES 323 

Heat fruit juice and lemon together, add sugar, and 
thicken with cornstarch. Number of servings, 6. 
Calories in recipe: ^ ^ „ ^ ^ 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

520 520 . . . . 100 

In one serving: 

87 87 . . . . 100 

94. Cornstarch Pudding (without milk) 

1 quart water 1 cup sugar 

3 tablespoons cornstarch 3 eggs 

Salt Flavoring as desired 

Put one quart of boiling water in double boiler, add 
the cornstarch rubbed smooth. Salt to taste. Cook until 
clear. Add sugar, remove from fire, beat in quickly the 
well-beaten yolk, add the whites beaten stiff. Beat well, 
add flavoring. Number of servings, 12. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 

75 150 954 1,179 

In one serving: 

6 12 80 98 6 12 82 

95. StufFed Prunes 

Wash thoroughly, remove pit. Put in place of pit an 
almond or one half a walnut. Roll in powdered sugar 
if desired. 



Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


6 


12 


82 



Calories in one prune if large: 




Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Protein Fat Carbohydrate 


Total 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


3 13 25 


41 


7 


32 


61 



96. Prune Whip 

2 cups prune puree 1 tablespoon sugar, or as 

:•;. 2 eggs desired 

•■'■■"% cup nuts Flavoring as desired 

Add the yolks and nuts to the prune puree, flavor, and 
sweeten, stir well, then fold in the beaten whites of the 



324 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 



eggs, reserving enough of the latter with which to gar- 
nish. Number of servings, 10. 
Calories in recipe: 



Protein 
111 



Tat 

498 



Carbohydrate 

621 



Total 
1,230 



Per Cent 
Protein 



Per Cent Per Cent 



In one serving: 
11 50 



62 123 

Calories in recipe if nuts are omitted: 

Carbohydrate 



Fat 
41 

41 



Carbo. 
51 

51 



Protein Fat 

63 

In one servingr 
6 



587 



59 





Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Total 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


650 


10 




90 



65 



10 



90 



97. Strawberry Fluff ("Vegetarian Cookbook/' 
E. G. Fulton) 

2 egg whites 1 pint strawberries 

% cup sugar 

Mash strawberries with the sugar and add to the un- 
beaten whites. Beat until light and foamy. Number of 
servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 



Protein 

64 



Fat 

20 



In one serving: 
11 3 



Carbohydrate 
734 



122 



Total 

818 
136 



Per Cent 
Protein 



Per Cent Per Cent 
Fat Carbo. 

2 90 



90 



98. Banana Snow (" Food and Cookery," Anderson) 

1/^ cup banana pulp 2 teaspoons lemon juice 

1 tablespoon sugar or honey A few drops vanilla 
1 egg white 

Mix and beat with wire egg whip until very light. 
Put on a sauce dish. Garnish with red strawberries or 
jelly. Number of servings, 2. 
Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total 

30 5 148 183 

In one serving: 
15 2Vj 74 91 16 3 81 



Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


16 


3 


81 



RECIPES 325 

99. Vegetable Gelatin (Agar-agar) 

How to prepare vegetable jelly: Soak one ounce vege- 
table gelatin in warm water for an hour. Drain and 
add to one quart of boiling water. Let boil about ten 
minutes, or until clear. Strain through a cheesecloth, 
and it is ready to use. It is much to be preferred to 
animal gelatin. 

100. Orange Jelly (" Food and Cookery," Anderson) 

IVi cups orange juice 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

% cup water 1 cup vegetable jelly (see 

Yo cup sugar above) 

Mix all cold ingredients, and add the vegetable jelly. 
Mix well and pour into molds. Add a few thin slices 
of orange. When cold, serve with a little red fruit juice 
around each mold. Number of servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

585 585 . . . . 100 

In one serving: 

97 97 . . . . 100 

101. Fruit Mold 

1% cups berry or other fruit 3 tablespoons lemon juice 
juice, sweetened to taste 1 cup vegetable jelly 

Mix and pour into molds immediately. Number of 
servings, 6. 

Calories in recipe: 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

355 355 . . . . 100 

In one serving: 

59 59 ^ . . . . 100 

Note. — Nuts, sliced fruit, raisins, etc., may be added 
to this recipe, making a very delightful variation. 



Total 


Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


1,658 


10 


13 


77 



326 THE HOME DIETITIAN 

102. Cake Without Baking Powder 

4 eggs 1 cup sifted flour 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Pinch of salt 

Separate eggs, add one half of the sugar to the yolks, 
lemon juice, and salt. Beat until foamy and the sugar 
is dissolved. Then beat whites until stiff and add the 
other half of the sugar to the whites. Beat, add the yolk 
mixture to the white mixture, folding them into each 
other. Then fold in the flour very carefully. Bake 
twenty minutes in a slow oven. Number of servings, 16. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate 

163 215 1,280 

In one serving: 

10 13 80 103 10 13 77 

Note. — The above may be used as a basis for nut or 
layer cake. 

103. Cake Without Sugar 

1 cup pitted dates 1 cup zwieback crumbs 

1 cup shelled walnuts ',/. cup water 

Put the dates, walnuts, and crumbs through a food 
grinder, add the water, mix thoroughly and press firmly 
into a pan. Let it stand twelve hours. Slice and serve. 
Number of servings, 12. 

Calories in recipe: 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

131- 822 897 1,850 7 44 49 

In one serving: 

11 68 75 154 7 44 49 

104. Hot Malted Nuts 

Place two tablespoons malted nuts in a cup, add slowly 
boiling water, stirring well. Serve. 



RECIPES 327 

Calories in one cup: n ^ * r, /- ^ « /- * 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protehi Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

27 73 50 150 18 49 33 

105. Peanut Milk 

1 tablespoon peanut butter % teaspoon honey 

Emulsify peanut butter, adding water gradually up to 
6 ounces. As the water is being added, stir in the honey. 
Calories in recipe: t,^^ t, n 4. -o r- * 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

17 62 18 97 18 64 18 

106. Cocoanut Drop Cakes 

2 egg whites V2 cup shredded cocoanut 
1/^ cup sugar 2yj cups corn flakes 

Add salt to egg whites and beat stiff. Add sugar grad- 
ually, beating well. Then carefully fold in the corn 
flakes and the cocoanut. Drop from a spoon onto oiled 
pan and bake one-half hour in a slow oven. Number of 
drop cakes, 10. 

Calories in recipe: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate 

142 290 1,144 

In one drop cake: 
14 29 114 157 9 18 73 

107. Caramel Pudding (Mrs. W. D. Gibson, of 

Pasadena Study Club) 

2 cups brown sugar % cup nuts 

2 cups water Pinch of salt 

2 tablespoons cornstarch 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Add sugar to water, boil five minutes, and thicken 
with cornstarch. When thick, add nuts and pour into 
molds to cool. Serve with whipped cream or any other 
pudding sauce desired. Number of servings, 10. 





Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Total 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


L,576 


9 


18 


73 



328 THE HOME DIETITIAN " 

Calories in recipe: 

Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent 
Protein Fat Carbohydrate Total Protein Fat Carbo. 

53 465 966 1,484 4 31 65 

In one serving: 
5 46 97 148 4 31 €5 



108. Baked Bananas 

Select ripe, firm bananas. Bake in the skins in a slow 
oven until tender. May be used as a vegetable. 



Calories: 

Protein 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 


Total 


Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


6 


7 


123 


136 


4 


5 


91 



109. Banana Croquettes 

Peel and scrape the banana ; roll in an egg, beaten and 
mixed with four tablespoons of milk. Then roll in sifted 
bread crumbs. Brown in skillet or bake in oven. May 
be served as a vegetable. 



Calories: 

Protein 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 


Total 


Per Cent 
Protein 


Per Cent 
Fat 


Per Cent 
Carbo. 


12 


18 


120 


150 


8 


12 


80 



110. Fruit Eggnog 

1 egg Mi glass (or more) of straw- 

berry or other fruit juice 

Beat egg separately. Carefully fold the fruit juice 
into the white, then fold in the yolk, and cap with a 
strawberry or bit of jelly. 



"* 


■y lAA UAAV 1 


'-'&&"'-'& • 




Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


^rotein 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 


Total 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 


25 


50 


30 


105 


24 


48 


28 



APPENDIX 



329 



|i; 



&,o^ 



c 

n. « O 






(6 

e 



^t^fili, OOOOOOOOt-C-t-OOOOOOOOOt-50 



O00c;iC<J-+''*M«5i-l(MC5rHi-(<3>CP0l0t-O 



IffllfflUSOOOOCCOOlOlrtOOOr-l-^-^JO 



lOOOooiMOiMTHmLraooirtMco'^ajcoMO;^ 



ciiooote^^«''*'''''^t^°°'~'®^'~''~''*^ 






o o o o "^ o 



sj 


N 


N 


NJ 


^; 


S! 


^j 


s: 


X 


N 


N 


O 


o 


o 


o 


O 


o 


O 


O 


o 


© 


o 



O? CO iH T-l rH 



S< ft a a ft & 



S S ^ ^ ^ 






S "3 



0) 0) (U v 



X3 -Q 



'^^ ^^^ #-^ ^H 

U U s s 



"O 


oi 


o 


a> 


-a 

0) 


cd 


"S 


a> 


-a 


CIS 


a 


o 


ft 


P 


la 




^ 


oT 




-i-> 




>. 






a> 


*3 


p 


"S 




CO 


CS 






03 


ffl 


tS 



oowosHcaca 
•^ "^ S S 5 P '« fc" 
Mwajco^-ocjo 

^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ T^ ^ (M IM (M 'M C<J <M 



ft a P, ft & ft 
,£j ^ ,q ,=; ,a -a 



fl -^ .ti 



CQ 



J a 

;-■ cS 



.9 ^ 



sh cS m S rt - -. . 






-^ -^ 



o w sa 



a « 



o ;3 « 

fl fl ft 

03 cS JS 



mcnmcaMaaiaoooooceiO 



^ Q m ' 9) 9) O 

."W O > rt _ 41 

Z " ^£ o 0.2 

" 9'il 35'>;C 

fci "•<-> ■" M ■»; -F — 
4) O to (3 2i *? t- 

o ti P 11 ^ ? -x; 

: > « S 4) £ 
•2 ai «) S 2£-;; 

«*"^ 4) ^ g 4) » 
'°--C<M4J0j-g4) 
„^4,OS„*'«J 

Stsl'i^'' .-if 

Sq 4)H o** S 
^'S ^5 bv — s: 

h^J<! S > O O 0«M 
V n 

t< C c6 »i >- c4 P 
^^ ''■5 41 4) 

S a;"S ^ ?! S =a ,. 

^0.5 4;^-^ Si 
— •'=!" H 3 V 

1= -^^St^-^ 

^ T3 ^ O 1* C 

^ n -^ 0) 5P 5 

U,g„oH^| 

■5 « r- f- 4) *r^ 
4) e- ^ <fi w Q 

^ 5 m~<"5 41 g- 

es'So^-jCOo 
- S^^iic'=41 

: i-J tii 41 « > n 



330 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 









c 






-ft^TH^iMiHCOfOtMM'-^MlO 



asoooojTHOi-iaiaiooociCi'^-^'m-^iMeoiM 



ooooooooooooooooo 



■^ i-H (M Tt< CO 



a a a a aj 

03 CO CC CO 






^ X! ^ ^ -S 

t? f7 S^ y . (y 

u u u aaaa.i:: '^ o* a o* JH 

?^• e^ cT- <M 5vl iM M c-i '^■' 



a & a n d 

COCCM+JCCOJCOCOCO 



a a P< A o< 
,a ^ j3 j3 ^ 



(M CI C^J 1-i C-1 W d W M 



<1> 






CO (V 

ca a 



bfl 



CO 



*= 'S 



^ ^: .r: t: -2 



o 

C8 ..^ 3 ;: 3 

;h (h ;h ^ ;-i 

O C5 O O O 



■3 I 



3 aj .22 
ii ^ CO -I- o 



^ '5 i> 



,o W 



^ n3 



fe 



O -^^ -^ -i-> -4^ 

O c3 cd c€ c6 



— •- d fl - - ^r ?^ "= ™ " ™ ™ 



•ft 




0) 




JS 


• CO 


«« 


• IM 






Q 




>> 




v« 






NJ N 


(« 


o o 



.s a> 



u H 



APPENDIX 



331 



CL4 



T-H iH O M 






CO eo M o -^ 
t- M c- c- 



aiC5"S W t- M Ifl 
n, 00 W U5 (M C<l «<> 



.a « 

OS? 



Ifl O Ifll O ITS 

t- «> ■» <M CO 



t-oseo^ooooor-iot-M 

rH r-l ■^ tH C<I S^l r-( 



T-i M <M 



I C-l 00 •>* O ^ 10 V,- _ ^.- 



Ift LO -^ LO 



urs t- iH tH t- 00 -^ 



(A 



5 in o o us eo M r-i 



c<i <» iM T-i ec 



13 

G 



N 


N 


S! N 


N 


N! N 


NJ 


SS 




n; 


s: 


(0 

4rf 


N ts: 




N 


N3 


N 


N 


N 


N 


N? 
































4) 

IS 




























iH 


t-i 




iH 




iH 


-* 


«J 






y-l 


0? 


M 


CO 


JO 


l^ 






-rf 



■^ u u 

r^ ^ Q^ ^ Q) 

?< Pi » be cS 



I > > > 
i-< -^ • rt s2 re 



11 X; y O CO -U +J 



f-! 'M 1-1 1-1 <-l 



« 










CO 














•— ' 


^^ 




13 


a ^ 




« a 


a 






01 



QJ CO 



U u-l 



72 CO - 



a a o 

4) to ?■ 



S 3 



0; 0^ O) OP 4> 

W CO CQ CO CQ 

^ ^ ^ <y ^ 

x: £ j3 J3 x: 2, t? «)•-•-•- 



S c . - . 

cO ?o ^ ►> ►> 



> >■ > > 



0^ 0? a? Q^ 0^ QJ 
c^ c€ cd cO cti cO 



-a ;i^ CO 
(jj <(-i 
-^ ^ -J . 



O O «M «" 
O O Q) <U 
CO " "" 



c 


_ai 


U' 


a 





a> 


u 




^ 


^ 


^ii 


^ 


re 


re 


0) 


<D 



M ra = ^ ^ g 

eoa)^Qja;ox:j3" 



332 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 



«^ 



«> la lo o 
irt t- t- t- 



00 cOt>-lOt-«COOiMM«CtOOOOlOt-t-IM 



C<1 -^f »♦* Ift 



t- "*< O tH 



.. _ .--^ooiMcgkOooojiffl 

^riOOccCO'XiMi-l'^iMMC- 



iHC'OiHt-lTHTHiMT-lTH 



O t- t- 00 O t- tH 

tH C© O ■<*< lO O '" 



00 •«tiOOt-?C'0'*rHlrteOr-IOOM<l«i-H 



M< (M «0 Ift 
T-l -^ 00 O 



IrtlOi-llOOt-lOOO 



OS^IiHOO-^-^OOlO 



IflfOfOcO'J^ieqCQCOCOMMC^MIMrH'MMiMiM 



> > 



tj t^ ^1 tN - 



g, t» > > > 

in Im Ji S- t- 

M <D V (V a 

^ 93 en CO en 



o3r3c3o3c$o3o3c^cqc^c^cqcqcu 



cS t? 



^ Ph ^ 

H) 01 0) 4) 

> > > > 

c^ c^ c^ c^ 



a> ^3 



O be 



5 



CI « 



X5 xT t, -e fi S « 



•o 3 a a a a 

cscgrteijo3cfi.;-iO 



„ 03 TJ S3 ^ — 
O 03 M 72 H H > 



•A 
V 

S M C-1 IC 00 

3 
bs 

e 

w 

0) - 

1^ o o o o 

45 ■* M 

4) 



N N bj n: 



tq J3 £i X3 

^ *j +j •*-> 

«5 & ft ci. 

M ^ ^ .C 

00 IM M C-1 



"O 



5 "S * 

« .2 ■« 

'^ t* fli 

M ^ ^ 



rt 2 >> 

- ^ .§ ^ 

■^ to OO" OQ* 

cTi q d fl 

Pi 03 OS C6 

OS <D W 01 

■< 03 W PQ 



APPENDIX 



333 



lie 

41 g rt 









CO iM T-l i-l tH O CI tH 1-1 « 1-1 i-i 



O tH r-i iH ' (M e-S 



M ^^ <m' 00 r-i t- LT^ 



rH CI CI i-i T-l 



o o o o o o 



oooooooooooooo 



|S d CI CJ M cq CO tH CI Cfl -^ CJ M CO Ci T-l CI iH r-l CO C5 CJ c^ CO fl 



ciciKicqcqciciccicacqcoeorH 



, o 



W) 

a 

CO 00 



flow 



ll « « f* 
bi S S i2 3 

te efl o H 



ft > 



^ ^ J2 <D <D 



-u 




EC 


a> 


-i-> 


M 






+j 


-l-> 


•t-> 


6C 


01 


d 




U 


o 


d 


(^ 




d 


d 


d 




u. 


A 


V 


OJ 


m 


,a 


OJ 


a> 


^ 


^ 


A 


05 


<ii 






t» 






> 




c 








> 


> 


CO 


iH 


rt 


t-i 


Cl 


ei 


CI 


o 


CI 


Cl 


M 


a 


CS 



a d ID a js ji 
<? <o (V 0) d es 






a 

S c i> -^ 

s s 1 1 ■■§ 5 



CO « p 



a> 



» .2 



CQCQ«P3fflWQt>OOOUOUHJt4!SO 



'S . 

to <K 

es » 

Oh Oi 





X 


:2 




(SI 


o 


a 


Xi 


^ 


n'l 






t, 






bc 


o 


^ 




*j 


•«-> 




5 


rt 


« 


o 


o 


Oh 


Ph 


Ph 



334 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 









Cff Lffl Oi rH C? (M O O 
COOOl-TfOOt-t-OO 



U5 05 CO -i* 05 t- O O 



OiCDOOlSOOr-lOO 



t- •* <» LO -00 



f o 00 ic ct e^ 



fOOt-?^OLai3SLO-»t<t~u5Ma5t— t- 



CO «D O? lO M ftl t- O 
O O iH M ■* CO -^ 



jafSioiOOi-ICD-^-^iiM 






t~ t- tH rH CO M 



?Ci05r-IO-*(Mr-l'* 



T^ 1-1 O » 



■^ O CO CO 



^jO'M'MOOCOt-C^l-* 



CO 

w 



IM tH |>. CO 



CO CO M CO CO UO ■* <M 



CO to 5 a; a: 

M S, ^ *; -^ *- *- 

5s is a g- § g- a 

® -H ^ -a q ^ ^ 



C8 LO (M 5-1 



1-1 C-5 CI 



00 



ffi 



,01 « 9; •» 



•p =5 .'A 't^ -O 






OOOOOOOOOO 



CO C^l tH 1— I OO L(0 ,-1 eg 5£ CO 



S- « > =< 



hfi hr vr *^ T M *J .*>_ 



cJj tWD M 

cS cd oj o fl 

o) 01 a; -C 

rt 03 cs ^1 >- 



^ a> ^ J 



tv a; V 
be be bc 
cd ^ ti 



t: a -5 a ^ s a 

> -^> > >■ > 

cS c] 1-1 iM r-^ tH eg eS rt e8 



.2 0) 

tH a 

t-i :3 as 50 

g ^ II fl 

S -is! tS fT< cS 



0) 



» 5 « S 



cs fl * b 



Qg. w a a 
bo o cs cs j3 



■ii, -fiH 0S to TO t^ El > -> <J <! eq W. D. o. o fe c5: CI. d ffl- J 






APPENDIX 



335 



9 9'S 

O4 






Sc5 



t- M M 00 
t- OJ t— 00 



Tf O -^ ■»*< O O 

o^ o c^ o^ o 



•^ 10 ?D O t- O CO 



•^ 00 T-l 



CO (M !S ■»*< ■* 



f? o -^ 10 o 

iM M LTS M IC 



(M -^ tH T-H 



O kft t- t^ O f'? O 
00 l-H M IM 00 iM t- 



O -^ O -*• -<• 

c<i e<i La (M ■* 



T-( n T-H 



Tt< tH (M -^ C5 M 10 





















tsj 







s 

u 


■* 


C<l 


r-l 


W 


M 


Cl 








c a A 

75 CO 2 

a) 05 a> pis X3 ,fi 

bO S M +J *J -kJ a, 

es o cs . . . c 

fc- zr ^ a Q ft -^ 

» M « J3 ^ ^ tn 

^ Cvj rt <M C-l M T-l 



ce "c 
.0 ^ 



j; .w u ,:: 



ti u 

S S3, a 

„ S EO CO 

111 111 Ph Ph P^ 



rt d c 



X n: N N N 

00000 

Ui ;?^ ;;^ ^ ;f3 ;?! 



9 



K N N N N 

00000 



to ■«*< io ■* fo ctf' e<i <M 













Ci< 






to 


CO 




CO 


22 


s 












■■< 


2i 




X5 


,c 




,a 


















CO 


-H> 


-.-J 


C/} 






















CO 


& 


rv 


CO 

03 


d 


X 


a 




01 




3; 


0^ 


W! 


,23 


JS 


M 


■^ 


^ 


x: 
















1-1 


r-l 


(M 


<M 


T-l 


IM 


CT 


M 



CO 



0) 3 



.H ta 



» rt >, 



OQ C E to p. 







OS 

<1> 




01 


a 


a. 


cS 


M 




*« 


< 


w 


fe 


H 


tf 



01 m 0) o 



a & 



i; rt cs 



a a a a Ji; ,:iJ ja 



as 



a 
a 
<t; ^ .< <J -ffl P3 O O C 



336 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 



Sis 



OOOOiO>0 0-»fOOt-0"^OioOtC> 
OOOOOOsOOiOOOsOCjCOjOOS 



t- t- o o o «o 






IftlOOOOoOoOOOOcOO-^OO 

00 a5o<>5cniftirtii5t-o>fflu5<M'<!tic<ita 



ui lo o 

00 05 



05 o t« o t- 

05 i^J lO ^ »*< 



O O !> 



C3 r— t^ O O M O 

t- 05 Iffl lO M M< <M 



O O tH (M O r-l 

in CO t- th (M o 

(M C-J rM M Cv) CO 



t- cs w o to ca 

t- CO tH m m lO 
T-l rH tH tH tH e^ 



rt> in c<i M< 00 o oo 
53 in 00 ■<*'•* in ca 



in 



00 in th "* "^ t- 



OOOOOOOoOOOOoOoOO 
CO <£> tH to CO ^ Cd ^ C<I C<1 iC C^l O CI «^ CJ 



n ft 

03 CO 



B in • f J 

9 CO C< 03 

o ' ^ — ^ 

s 

"95 



iS^^ G^ diS d5 aa^ a^diSft 

bet: bC^ W)^ M,S tJ3,£a^ bc^ M^ oc^ 




ns 














fi 














(« 














(A 














4^ 


N 


N 


N 


N 


N 


N 


U 






















^^ 




;?; 








M 


CM 


CM 


iH 


CM 


CM 


CO 


4) 















> 


> 


!>■ 


t> 


> 


> 


u 


U 


El 


;h 


;h 


;-. 


CD 


<u 


0) 


(I) 


0) 


IV 


Oi 


c« 


m 


tti 


a: 


c« 



;- u 

D ^ Q^ <U <D QJ 

c^ cj c€ c^ cd c3 



o « 
^ o 





« 


, 










^ 









(h 


0) 


<1> 




m 



W) 


>> 


a 


j3 




U) 


a> 



«^ ««^ ^« #-4 ^V Vii' 

I J J O O CU Hi 



W W 



q; ^ ^ Qj q; Q> 

^ ;i! ^ ^ ^ ^ 

o5 c€ ^ » OS cd 

O O O O Q U 



APPENDIX 



337 






«) 5 « 






1(5 O iH Ol t- 



jW» 



<MOiO<iOTj<U500050'^t-t— OJ 



(Mr'5incoOM'<»<ooioooooiHOOOOOoooa; 

NOOCOt-t-OiCOOOlMOLOOOOOlffllflOllflmOOOOT 



o^ 



tHtH iMrHi-lTHTH(Mi-lTH 



MN>;NNfr3(^^: 



s N X s: n: X 



oooooooooooooooocoo 



o o o o 



;?! ;^ 



:^ ;?! 



:z t, r-^ ,- 



-f -^ -^ -t< CO -<f f5 



> > 



O 



22 






0< 0) 



n ^ 



V 


s 


c 


So 

c 




s 


o 


0) 


oT 


n 


-u 


+-> 


CD 


rt 


rt 


fc 


O 


o 


a> 


V 


V 


'^ 


o 


o 


IS 


J= 


j3 


o 


O 


O 






n ^J 'T 



DS 



02 

0) a: 

M a 

fl O 



.i; .;5 0) .?. .2 .s . 

a o, -^ o ft p, & 



t» ft 

« X3 



> 



" - s >^ ^ - 



a> e8 o 
CD » S oi 






CD " -^ <!' a "^ 
03 03 « -^ a ft 



2 t* 



2 g S « S 2 § g g ■§ « o .2 .2 .2 









PQ 

c c 

cu a, 



838 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 



|3£ 



w g «« 









tat-osooooo 



N in o o o o 
t- c- 00 "*i CO o 



oiooomooooo 

t--OlOOt-OCOiMO 
iH i-l (M lH tH IM CO 



1-1 


o> 


la 


o 


o 


o 


lO 


lO 


Ol 


la 


t- 


•rt< 


CO 


o 


C^J 


Cvl 



C-l Oi o 
00 Ci IC 



TS Oi l-l t- 
« CO t- <* 



g 00 •^ u^ 






4, o2 





«e 


U5 












1 

z 


N 


NJ 


S3 


N 


N! 


N 


N 


ts; 




o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 




CO 


C^l 


C-1 






^ 








a 


ci, 




„• 












en 


0! 




r/i 




CO 








,Q 


^ 




^ 










-*-» 


-W 




-i-> 


0) 








X3 


n 
^ 




^ 
p 
o 


13 

a 

03 


ft 


o; 




ci 


<M 


C<) 


T-H 


T-I 


tH 


T^ 





t- O Irt t- t~- 



4) 



tH Ct tH 



m2 a 



a 

i; c5 03 id g 2* 
OJ M) ho W) P ? 

ja 5 s s .S .h: 

CO W t» CQ M M 



II a> ,a t-i «- t-i 



O O l-T o o 



OQ 


3 


03 

•fcJ 

3 





1 , 


fl 


O 


S3 


■s 


ti 


rt 


a> 



J3 03 P CO 

S3 
o 



« S: 



>= J- ^ o :;5 ." 

< m o Q fa Ph 



Hh p^ 



^ v,n -.CI 

Cr- 1H-- r<"- 

<£> -^ CO 



3 P, ft p4 

w ^ ^ ;cj 

r-l IM C^ r-l 









d Si 



cd c^ cd 

s s s 



o CO TO eg 

rS *^ ^ ^ 



APPENDIX 



339 



u " >, 



3 £ « 



•M 7- CO -^ ?0 C* L- LO L.-5 



.a « 



e<i 1-i M o 



■^ 


m 










c< 


p. 


J2 


o 


Ih 




^ 


p 


A 


+j 


■>-> 


> 

c<3 




> 

e8 


o 


T-l 


1-1 


tH 


LO 


iH 






T to CC 



S S ^ ;2: o Oh h 



.J 

fiQ 
< 



bo 

C 

o 





4) 

D 



e 

i 
g 



-TO 

§ 

U 

ns 
C 

(0 



o 
CQ 

« 
it 

s 



o 
bu 



LO e-l T-! t- Ol M C<I (M O t- C* «* M 
■*IOOIC-*05Mi-H00'«tH-»<LSi 



O O (M f- 

■<»> CO cri m 
cq CO 



OC^1COW?OOt-It-( 

00-^<X>C0t-lOt-lO 

CI M< tH C^ 1— I iH -^ 



CO <C CO • T-^ 



1-1 o o 



CI CO Ift 



r^t-^OOOOt-OOO 






O 5 o 

C5 ^' CJ 



-O TJ 



-a -3 .« 
a> v (h 



Ot Pt Oi U 

< < < 'H 



"« -a -a 

•« -S ,«- 

aj s- c8 

3 cS a 

^ S -- 



?^ « O 



2 <s" « 

„ .§ s a 
J "^ J ;3 



^ o 

EC O 

II 

!^ b b 

> > > 

d ^ ci 

a a G 



01 oi 



CO 



U fi irS 
e8 e8 a> 

CQ (S n 



m m to m to m 

a a a a a a 

c3 cj 0$ CTi cS cd 

dp <D <1> QJ 3) <P 

CO P CQ P CQ PQ 



340 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 



lu S * 






-Si 



o o o 
t- t- t- 



O •^ «0 tH r-l 

CO t- t- t- ffO tH 



o o •* in o 

O O rH t- Oi 



-*T-4 00<MiHr-l Irtt-rHrH 



O CO 05 O 
O -^ Iffl US 
IM <M «> CO 



•^ r-H rH T-( 



O t— O iC 

-•O ^ O «* 

C-1 C^ S<1 



OLOMi^^ecoi-iajoo 

laTHrHC^TH tH t-Ii-H 



ira 1-1 r-l 



oocoe<iooo'i©t-o 

CO O CO O CO Ol IM 00 c^ 

c<i e<i ift t- e<i ift 



Or-IOOt-OOOOOOO 
O«DMe<IC0<35C0-^T-l 



■nf •* CO Lft CO CO «<l <C <3i •^ CO OO t- tH 
IM Tf r-l 1-1 tH O -itl 



« T-l t- t- 



O 5* C^ 



ooooooooooooo 



tr-OOt— OO'Tie^IO 



00 C^l ■<*■ t- S-1 



N; N N M N 

o o o o o 



t!i f£i m -^ 



fl 


a G 


ft 


ft 


ft ft 


ft 





ft 


E 


S ^ 


s 


fl 


fl 


3 


fl 


fl X! 


u « 


o 


o 


o 


« 


V 


u -*-■ 


tH rH 


iH 


•r-l 


r-l 


rH 


r-l 


r-l rH 




•O -3 


,^' 
















o 
o 
















O m 
O to 
















« a 


3 


















fl 

-a 

x 


a 

C 

c 
c 


C 

c 

c. 




> 






O O 


u 
o 


> b 




i 






^ ^ 


^ 




, c 




£ 


: S • 




c c 


fl 


c 


r> J 




1 c 


3 fl • 


•w 


■ft ft 


■ft 


a 


3 


^ 


■1 t- 


o 
o 


aT aT 


CO 


Q 


2" 


0" 


F- 


3 -o « 

13 03 -w 


C C 


fl 


c 


3 t 


a c 


i c 


cs cfl 


cS 


ei 


i : 


S a 


3 « 


D m -ti 




a> 01 


v 





i c 


L 


. ( 


- ;- fl 




1 ffl pa 


pa 


P 


a c 


Q P 


a p 


a a 


a m 



ft ft 
fl fl 



ft ft ft „ 
fl 5 fl ja 



o o « « o ■<-> 



v. o 



V 



S ^ 



« ''3 

-S Oi 

C 01 .fl 

? t^ 00 

rt cS cS 

^ M a 



<S p O C 



ftftcfi ftoi ftftftft 
flflXifl^flflflS 



t- ^ 



» 0) 

-d ;4 ;<J 

(D O O 

•i! O O 

O « « 

- O fl C 

« O fl fl 

fl , 

C --s t: t: 



■ft 

*i -ft h »- -^ « 

fl eij cd cs oj o 

pa O O U O O 



rrt 


eS 


as 


C8 


u 


^ 




0) 


a> 


0) 


OS 


eS 




a 


a 


a 


m 


w 


fl 


fl 


fl 


fl 


fl 


fl 



rt oj ^ ^ 

OOOOOOOI-t- 

UOCUOOUOO 



APPENDIX 



341 



Sox 



o M o 1-^ 

t— Oi ^ ^ 






t-t--(M-f->"C'0MlOirSr-li-l«-lMMCOlftlrt<MM 



41 S p 



oi>ooe<>M>-'>:;oot~t-»ft>«<3ia5oooO(M(Miomoo 






■* (M «<l CO 
i-t t- t~- M" 






THOSOiOOOOOi-IO 



•y 00 ■«♦< o s^ •<*< 

r? O lO O M 

**< -^ OO r-< 



O O lO M M i-l OC M O 



— i-J -M rH 



C-J Ut O irt 



T- T-i IM 



5 -* U5 

a (M i-H 



-^ O M «<1 00 l~- Ift t~ 'M Oi -<»< rt L- 

.•^ *44 r-» t-— . j*.^ •■" 



o 


o 


o 


o 


N! 

o 


o 


o 


n: 

o 




O 


S] (4 N9 

o o o 


SI N 

o o 


§ 


00 


00 


00 


M" 


00 


in 


00 




1— ' 


t-- 




U'5 


00 



oooooooo 



LI -^ %S 



01 



Ol 



^bc5f" ^ O a G Q 

OiOiCiOiCiB<t< CS ^ as Picn S.DQ Ci.co C<03 &.. 



1-1 i-i S3 



H 9^ 



(J) -—' 

Ml ^ 

ce >> 

$ « 

s a 

« V 



•g « to o 

ft !5 £ «> 



to to '7* 
r^ rt f*^ 






0) 



o. c. =. 

S D = 



O O 



.§ s - - s III 



ouooaoQH 



U U h (h 



Mi .s ^ ^ ,S ,i; 

s ;^ ^ b b b 



o 



(4b.«Mt-it-it-i(-i(-i;-iiu 

° ° °25 ^ 2, 2, 3, S. 



342 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 



S_gM 






""So 






■* 05 o o 
00 00 o o 



OOr-ICOCO-^OOOOt-t- 



C<J C'l •* Irt fO <35 



•^ t- C<l C^) 



(J5 l>" Ci Ci 



oieocousiMMMoo 

CSOOOOOOOOOO'-OOO 



ai-^-<*iT-iooou5 



oicDioiooo<Mooa5<Mooi>-0':ooo'*'ica5_ 

OOi-l i;DTH-*i-(OStOUS?C00'Mt^llO'*<00«^ 

lO 00 IM t- M 05 iH rO » O C5 fO 



o CO CO ce lo «5 00 

" r-H t- 00 O as 

tH O t- r-l 



locouoinc^ieoosicc'-^oot- 



OOiniOO-^HOOLOCOt^OiT-lT-lOO 

■rf ooio-^iHj'-jC'Oiooiase^oj 



r? ;^ 



-rfi OS -^ -^ a; iH 



O to O C-l 



c^ 00 in t^ OS irt -^ 

?o t— O tH kO 00 ■<l< 

00 OO i-H OS oo ■* 



_g 00 «D 



O M 'l' O 



O O 



N^!^;^JSlNtSJNNS)^aNtS!NlS!N^)!SlSIN 
OOoOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 



s^ 



00 t- OO 00 f 



to in c~ o to i« u5 



^ U 



^.^.^.^.^i-lTHrH'-li-Hr-lTHr-lT-iTHTHT-lT-lT-lT-lT-li-li-lt-l 



S S o 3 



'1' O O r— I 

s ^ ^ « o 







APPENDIX 



343 



alls 






O 00 M IM M •^ 
t- <0 t- t- t- « 



t~_^,t-.t,t-t-000'-lt-THr-l(Mr-le<IMCOCOCO'^ 

o o o OS 



" 4) p rH 



iM C^J T-4 iH t- 



OeOiHOOOOOOSOWlOlftb-© 

oooiomooioc^ioseocoeoift'^ 

O500fOi-l IrtrH (MtHrHi— 1-<»< 



Mr-t'<»<t0lftO0550005£> 
(Mi-ICO<»rHC<ie''lr-l 






MrHC<l'«t<iHr-l<Mi-l 



M 'Xi O ■>* O o m 



COMt^OOtOOOOOt- 



<JJ t- -«*< iH 



tH rH tH -*i 



5 ?tf O O <X> 00 O 

■g' O «i CO 00 M rH 
S rH 



O 00 LA O 



US ■<1< rH 50 00 



;:;;^ ;?J ;:^ ;?; ;:?? 

lis 00 <M C» M M 



N iS] [^ S) S! 

o o o o o 



O?00t-«*^t-0000 












P i q< O* ft & -«, 



0) 01 

"O .M ^ 

TS « o o 



^ ^ 



a a 
s 3 



AAA 
S S 3 



AAA 
3 S P 



ooowyoco 



-a _ - 

0) v >^ 

-a -o ^ ,« o 

0) a> o o o 

« ^ o o y 

•^ o <y w 



S3 3 



6 a 

o 5 



a 



(O CO -t^ -M 



3 S 



§ -a -o -3 

I-" Qj aj aj 

„- ^- ^-^ 5 ^ ^ -^ 

es ce es 2 2 S § 

a Q O m m m >ii 

■*j -*j -*j •*-'-*-' •♦-» _^ _r — r .t^ — 

OOOOOOOOOOO 



o CO a> 






•"3 ■'J tS rt rt o3 

a a V 01 a> <x> 

o o 0- cu a- a. 






■3 
01 

a 

a 
a 



e ^ (D 

M a §. g 

03 M 52 4) 

OJ tS w a 

Oh ^ &- CU 



344 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 



0-1 



ts -^ io c> 's e-i oi oo oi 






OO iH M M OJ 



■«»< -^ CiC n 



Pi 



o: '^ Ift t- CO lO 00 



OC'Ot-lOKIOjaiCiOMMIMt— o 



U5 «> M 00 c^i «c ro o 



O «0 O «0 'M t- 
OCOiOOOTHinrHTHiH 



lO o t- 

US e-i 

OC S>.1 fO 



M -^ O 1— I OS 



Si 



(Miot-t-t-i- e<ico-»t<t--c<ji-ia5iftoocO"^ 

CO T-lrHC^It-i-iC^l T-lOO 



;© M <M 1-1 uo 



•rl S^O O (M r-l M cr 'O O 00 






oooooooo 



O00000'-l0030-^'*'lOl-O00O0C-5 0O0OO0C0«'^O0'— 00 



ft a ft 

S 3 S 



T) 


-o 




V 






,a 


J3 




r« 






ce 


a 




a 


a 




J' 


<i) 






m 


ki 


tH 






»r 


fo" 


^ 


a> 


a> 




o 


o 


c 






•t- 


rt 


rt 


n 


*j 






o 


o 


c 


Ph 


d, 


fin 



aaftftftftaaaftftftfto 



. a ft ft 52 a 

*-> S ? S -^ " 
C o O o -^ i- 



M t- O -c 



'C ^ ii 

V s =^ 

O « W) 

o 

" a «r 

o S 2- ^ -S 

o =* 2 "2 •= 

(h tl -^ » ^ 

11, !1h CU tf tf 



ti ^ 3 

CO »3 M 

.2 .2 >. 

;-i ;h (i 

ii ti ;h 

o) a> a> 

^ ^ ,Q 

ft ft ft 

m rsi m 

c^ Ci c3 

tf ti 02 



o o 



<U O fl 

-a o « 

(Do 



o -o 



9 3 -S 



Ol 



ja ja 



OJ 5> -y "S ^ 



rt 



g ■§ oT oT M) W) _ .V 

cQA<p-t*--4 Q^aaac-i-)-*-^ 
^ ^ ^ ;£» xn m rj} m m rn 



3 a 

73 02 03 



APPENDIX 



345 



41 S rt 






OOOOOOOO'MU5C<IOOC0-^-«f<'««< 

oooooooot-mt--^wooc30oooo 



tr-iHt--OLO-^'^-^-«»< 



i-l'^i-IOL.OMlMM 



<M M <M iJ M 

rH r-l rH '^ r-c 



Aii 








■T 2 


00 'X' 


00 to 


O irt 




■<ti M 


M< M 


^ M 


c- 


t- 


OS 



to L.O 00 CO M 
"S lO *? 



OOOOCOO»«M«<l'tf<00-^II-«f 



■* ■*! Irt CM 



00 (M t~ ;d 



i-f Ot C<l '■£• tA CC t~ CC r-t '^ r-l 



S) 


NJ 


N 


N 


N 


N 


^9 


N 


N 


n: 




>5 




M 


N 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


O 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 



^ -" 



«0 00 C- 00 '-S 1-1 00 






TS 


-o 






o 


^ 


^ 


^ 


a 


Oj 


u 

rrt 




P. 


a 


o 


^ 


W 


a 


u 


^T 


[_^ 


fcT 


<— \ 


. 










3 


3 



CO (/3 73 Cfi t» 03 H 



w V n t>. 



C. 03 C. A CO 



x3 -a • a> « 

(1) <i> ^ ^ 

-o ;j! ,« -o o o 

0) o o 2 o o 

o ^ » 9, a G 

o o fl g 3 3 

o 3 3 U 





eg 




CQ 


o 


CO 
rn 


a 


^ 


^ 


^ 




<1) 








CO 






>v 


a; 


(p 


(1> 






cfl 


o 


o 


o 


.u 








-t-t 


■*-> 




u 


o 


a 


nJ 


crt 




n 


a 


a 


a 


M 


cfl 


o 


o 


o 


<D 


H 


H 


H 


h 


> 



-c -o -o o <=> o 

^ X m B B S 

w w « cs as «j 

cQ c<3 ri m « a> 

t. Ul ll t, t, fc, 

« « o o « « 

-»J -kJ ♦J -fcJ H-T -l-" 

^ oj cd ^ 03 cQ 

0> QP ^ 4^ ^ 4> 

£ ja X] ^ A f! 



INDEX 



Absorption, of food, 14, 15. 

of poison, 23, 24. 
Acidosis, 52, 63, 86, 89, 90, 248. 
Acid phosphate, 85, 112, 113. 

salts, 93. 
Acids, acetic, 142. 

amino, 19, 23, 43, 76, 127, 128. 

carbonic, 18, 85, 86, 112, 113. 

combined with starch, 173, 192. 

fatty, 52, 53. 

fruit, 93, 173, 174, 221. 

hydrochloric, 23, 84, 113, 114. 

in baking powder, 112. 

in the digestive tract, 31, 85. 

iso-lactic, 85. 

lactic, 118, 194, 267. 

metabolic, 31, 52, 85, 102, 249. 

phosphoric, 85, 86. 

sulphuric, 82, 85, 86. 

uric, 19, 28. 
Acne, 52, 241. 
Alcohol, 23, 145, 146. 
Alcoholism, 24. 

Alkali, 71, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 113. 
Alkaline salts, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 91. 
Alligator pear, 11, BO. 
Almonds, 47, 338, 342. 
Alum baking powder, 112, 113. 
Amino acids, 19, 23, 43, 127, 128. 
Amylopsin, 59. 
Analysis, 13. 
Anaphylaxis, 278. 
Anemia, 25, 40. 
Angina pectoris, 28. 
Animals, diseases of, 132-134. 
Antitoxic diet, 193, 243. 
Apoplexy, 28. 
Appendicitis, 220. 
Appetite, 22, 159, 186, 187, 272. 
Apple and celery salad, 316. 

baked, 335. 

dried, 339. 

fresh, 334. 

juice, 335. 

pie, 337. 

sauce, 335. 
Apricot, fresh, 334. 

sauce, 335. 
Apricots, dried, 335, 339. 
Arteries, hardening of, 28, 244. 
Arteriosclerosis, 28, 137, 244, 246. 
Arthritis, 242. 

Artificial sweets, 62, 65, 66, 153, 181, 182. 
Asparagus, 100, 105, 107, 166, 251, 332. 
Asthma, 241, 275. 
Auto-intoxication, 21, 234. 

Babies, 66, 178, 179, 180. 181. 
Bacon, 331. 
Baked apple, 335. 
Baked banana, 328. 
Baked carrots, 312. 
Baking powder, 112, 113, 114. 
Balanced ration, 38, 49, 281. 
Banana croquettes, 328. 

snow, 324. 
Bananas, 96, 324, 328, 334. 
Barley, crushed, 339. 

flour, 341. 

346 



Barley, pearled, 329, 339. 

Bases, 87. 

Beef, 331. 

Bean sandwich, 171. 

tomato soup, 299. 
Beans, 46, 100, 332, 333. 

croquettes, 302. 

protein of, 41, 45, 46, 79, 100, 101. 

string, 48, 250, 333, 340. 
Beet greens, 48, 250, 333. 
Beets, 48, 333. 
Beriberi, 69, 70. 

vitamine, 73. 
Bilious attacks, 24, 231. 
Biscuits, 329. 
Blackberry juice, 335. 

sauce, 335. 
Blackberries, 334. 
Blood, circulation of, 30. 

poisons in, 16, 23. 
Body as a stove, 17. 
Boils, 52. 241. 
Boston roast, 306. 
Bouillon, vegetable, 155, 294. 
Bowel, catarrh of, 142, 143, 241. 

putrefaction in, 23. 
Boys, food for, 187. 
Brain workers, food for, 42, 161. 
Bran, 109, 340. 
Brazil nuts, 338. 
Bread, as a protein food, 41, 47. 

caloric value of, 329, 340. 

coarse, 202. 

corn, 286. 

demineralized, 63, 64, 88, 90, 110, 111, 
185. 

devitalized, 88, 90, 109, 112. 

fresh. 111. 

home-ground wheat, 110. 

oatmeal, 288. 

rye and Injun, 288. 

stale. 111. 
Bread crumbs, 340. 
Breakfast, 157. 

no breakfast, 191. 

sample menus, 163, 164, 165, 211, 212, 
213, 251-257. 
Brighfs disease, 28, 137, 143, 244. 
Broiling, 54. 
Bromine. 11. 

Broths, vegetable, 80, 107, 155, 156, 162, 
179, 222, 235, 242, 249, 251, 258, 261, 
294, 295. 

meat, 135, 150. 
Brown rice, 80. 
Brown sauce, 313. 
Browned potatoes, 310. 

rice, 237, 294. 
Buns, 329. 

Building stones, 19, 43, 128. 
Butter, 50, 53, 54, 73, 120, 121, 164, 184, 
202, 228, 237, 238, 241, 330, 340. 

vegetable 213. 
Buttermilk, 46, 116, 1.59. 173. 194. 225, 
226, 230, 236. 238, 242, 245, 262. 
267, 272. 

Cabbage, 48, 100, 101, 104, 258. 
calorie value of, 48, 104, 245, 333, 340. 



INDEX 



347 



Cabbage, cooked, 245, 333. 

raw. 104. 245, 333. 340. 

salad. 317. 
Caffeine. 28. 135. 147, 148. 
Cake. 154. 

caloric value of, 336, 337. 

for children. 183. 

without sugar. 326. 
Calcium, 11. 63. 66. 90, 93. 105, 222. 

carbonate, 81. 
Callous, 142. 
Caloric value of food. 33, 35, 187. 262. 

281, 329. 
Calorie. 32. 
Calorimeter. 32. 
Candy. 90. 153. 182. 188. 
Cane sugar. 60. 62. 65. 66, 89, 96, 174, 
181. 188. 241, 282. 

caloric value of. 338. 344. 345. 

combined with milk, 153. 174. 
Canned foods. 78. 
Canteloupe, 334. 
Caramel puddings. 327. 
Carbohydrates, 11. 28. 29. 42. 43. 58-68. 

75, 188, 233. 247. 
Carbon. 11, 13. 18, 49. 
Carbon dioxide. 18. 85. 86. 112, 113. 
Carrot and cottage cheese salad. 316. 

and nut loaf, 307. 

cottage cheese sandwich, 170. 
Carrots, 258. 282, 333. 340. 

baked, 312. 

tops, 105, 107. 
Casein, 12. 

Catarrh, 52, 184, 237, 241. 
Cauliflower. 48, 101. 333. 
Celery. 48, 101, 333, 340. 

and nut roast, 308. 

sandwich, 171. 

soup, 299. 

tops, 101, 105, 107, 258, 295, 296. 
Cellulose, 11, 12. 13. 58, 92, 99. 101. 
Cereal coffee, 163, 164, 169. 314. 

pudding, 321. 
Cereals, 11, 44, 65, 109, 114, 115, 220, 
225, 226. 

caloric value of, 47, 329, 341. 342, 
343, 345. 

how to cook. 115. 

monotonous diet of. 44, 115, 207. 

pi-oteins of, 44. 47, 114. 

vitamines of, 77. 
Cheese. 116, 120, 331. 
Chemical elements, 11. 

action, in digestion, 14, 59. 
in the plant, 13. 
in the tissues, 18, 60, 85. 
Cherries. 334. 
Chestnuts, 338. 
Chicken, 134. 227. 331. 
Children, feeding of. 178-188. 
Chittenden standard of protein, 233. 
Chlorine. 11. 
Chlorophyll. 13. 102. 
Chocolate, 149, 337. 

cake. 336. 

cream, 337. 
Chronic disease, 232, 250. 
Chyle. 16. 
Chyme. 22. 
Circulation of blood. 16. 30. 



Citrous fruits, 94. 

Clams. 279. 331. 

Cocoa, 149, 186, 337, 340. 

butter. 149, 
Cocoanut, shredded. 338, 340. 

drop cakes, 327. 
Coffee, 147, 148. 186. 338. 
Colds, 220. 
Combinations. 153. 172. 191, 196, 282. 

fruit and milk. 174. 

fruit and vegetables. 153, 173. 

milk and sugar, 123, 153, 174. 

starch and acid. 173, 192. 

two kinds of fruit, 176, 192. 

two starches. 176, 192. 
Complete proteins, 43. 44. 45, 76. 99, 

128 129 222 
Concentrated 'foods. 42, 62-65, 184. 211, 

239. 
Condiments. 140-144. 241. 
Conservation of food. 198-204. 
Constipation. 23, 25. 147. 179, 239, 240. 

241, 268. 
Convalescent, 38, 43, 227. 
Cooking, of cereals, 115. 

of sugar. 96. 

of vegetables, 78. 105. 106, 107. 
Co-operation of child, 186. 
Corn. 45. 70. 71. 

bread. 286, 329. 

canned, 333, 340. 

chowder. 301. 

dodgers, 287. 

flakes. 226. 293, 329. 

green, 333. 

meal. 329. 340. 

soup, 298. 

starch, 340. 
Cornstarch pudding. 323. 
Cottage cheese. 46, 120, 157, 160, 170, 
184, 194, 227. 242, 262, 267. 

in salad, 316. 

and nut roast, 306. 

omelet. 306. 

tomato sandwich, 170. 
Cracked wheat. 47, 114, 330, 345. 

gruel. 330. 
Cracker ci-umbs. 340. 
Crackers, 154. 329. 
Cranberry sauce. 335. 
Cranberries, raw, 340. 
Cream, 41, 50. 54. 77, 121. 184, 202, 225, 
228, 236. 237. 241. 263. 

average. 331. 341. 

dressing, 320. 

egg toast, 291. 

heavy, 331. 341. 

of tartar. 112, 113. 

of wheat, 330, 345. 

pui-ee of peas on toast, 291. 

rolls, 286. 

soup, 296, 297. 298. 

tomato toast. 290. 
Creatin, 19. 28. 
Crisco. 341. 
Croquettes, banana, 32S. 

bean, 302. 

eggplant, 307. 

split pea. 309. 
Cucumber jelly, 319. 

pulp. 341. 



348 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 



Cucumbers, 48, 333. 
Currant jelly, 335. 
Currants, 334, 341. 
Custard, 337. 
Cycle of life, 11-16. 

Dairy dishes, 330. 

products, 116-129. 
Dates, 163, 241, 335, 341. 

stuffed, 337. 
Defective food analysis, 21, 27, 281. 

food ration, 11. 
Deficiency diseases, 40, 71, 88, 235, 259. 
Demineralized bread, 64. 65, 109, 185. 

foods, 64, 88, 90. 
Desserts, 123, 151, 160, 336. 

for children, 182, 183. 

recipes for, 321. 
Devitelized food, 70, 71, 72, 78, 88, 90, 

105. 
Dextrin, 58, 59. 

Dextrinized foods, 14, 59, 79, 111, 226. 
Dextrose, 14, 59, 60, 92. 
Diabetes, 60, 247-258. 
Diet, corrective, 184. 

flesh, 124-139. 

for children, 178-188. 

for convalescents, 43, 223, 229. 

for invalids, 218, 232, 259, 265. 

if too thin, 43, 234-238. 

in obesity, 30, 34, 39, 244-246. 

milk, 191, 195, 265. 

monotonous cereal, 44, 115, 207, 281. 

raw food, 104, 191, 196. 

vegetarian, 40, 75, 79 (footnote), 124, 
126, 128, 130. 138. 139. 
Digestion. 14, 15. 16, 21, 23. 24, 25, 51, 

59, 60, 64, 234. 235. 
Digestive ferments. 69. 

juices, 14. 21. 22. 59. 
Dinner, 159. 160. 
Diseases, acute. 218. 

chronic. 232. 259. 
Disease of animals. 132-134. 
Diseases spread by milk, 119. 
Doughnuts, 337. 
Drinking at meals, 177, 283. 
Dyspepsia. 25. 234. 

Eating between meals. 186. 283. 

purpose of. 140, 189, 198. 199. 

regularity of. 178, 186, 283. 

too fast, 21, 22, 283. 

too little, 29, 40, 80, 188, 193, 194, 223, 
235, 259, 276. 

too much, 29, 37, 40. 199, 200. 244. 

too often, 158, 159. 283. 
Economy, 129, 198-204. 
Eczema, 52, 71, 179. 241. 
Egg gravy, 312. 

sandwiches, 170. 

yolks. 11, 123. 
Eggs, 11, 12. 42, 45. 46. 50. 117, 121, 

122, 123, 157, 159, 185, 205. 
Eggnog, 123, 328. 
Eggplant, 48. 333. 341. 

croquettes. 307. 

scalloped. 312. 
Elimination. 19. 28. 29. 

of carbohydrate. 18, 20. 

of fat. 18. 20. 51. 



Elimination of protein. 20, 38. 
Emaciation, 225. 
Endocrines, 243. 
Endurance of vegetarians, 138. 
Excretion of fatty acids. 52. 
Exercise. 30, 40, 187. 
Exophthalmic goiter. 242. 
Experience, 276. 
Extracts, meat, 135, 145, 150. 
vegetable. 106, 107, 155, 157. 

Fads, 189-197. 

Farina, see Cream of wheat. 

Farina mold, 322. 

Farmer, food for, 34, 42, 160. 

Fasting, 190, 193. 

Fat-soluble vitamine, 50, 53, 73, 77, 100. 

103. 120. 121. 265. 
Fats, 11, 49-57, 120. 184. 228. 

average consumption of. 50. 

classification of, 49. 50. 

combined, 50. 

conservation of, 202. 

decomposition of, 52, 53. 

digestion of, 15, 51. 

effect on digestion of protein, 51. 

elimination of, 18, 20, 51. 

emulsification of, 15, 51. 

free, 35, 50. 

metabolism of, 18, 51. 

oxidation of, 18, 51. 

required, 35, 50, 56. 

superheated, 52, 54, 161. 

where found, 11, 50. 
Fatigue, effect of vegetarian diet upon, 

138 
Fatty acids, 52, 53. 

heart, 30, 244. 

seasoning, 54, 62. 
Feeding of children, 77, 80, 178-188. 
Fermentation, 23, 63, 89. 
Ferments. 69, 278. 
Fever, 260. 
Figs, 334, 335. 
Filberts, 338. 
Fish. 331. 

Flesh food, 124, 139, 331. 
Food balance distributed, 41, 151, 152, 

158. 
Food, classification of, 11. 

dead, 78. 

decomposition of, 23. 24. 193. 

idiosyncrasies. 273. 

predigested, 14. 

protein, 18, 38-48. 75. 82. 85. 99. 116- 
123, 127, 155, 159, 160. 236, 24,5. 

quartet, 220. 

raw, 104, 191. 196. 

required, 34, 161. • 

by child. 187. 

unit. 32. 

values. 32-37. 187, 281. 

vital, 76. 
Flour. 109, 110, 111, 341. 
Flourine. 11. 

Forced feeding, 190. 194. 260. 
French dressing. 320. 

Fruit. 77, 92-98, 122, 153, 158, 159, 173, 
174, 175, 176, 182, 211, 235, 240. 
334, 335. 
acid. 84, 87, 92, 93. 



INDEX 



349 



Fruit, fresh, 96, 158, 240. 

juice, 93, 179, 220, 221, 242, 261. 

mold, 325. 

salad, 315. 316. 

stewed. 96, 158. 

sugar. 59. 60. 92. 

toast, 290. 
Frying, 52. 

without grease, 54. 
Funk. Casimir. 72. 

Galactose, 60. 

Gastric ulcer, 238. 

Gems, 110, 114. 285. 

Germ activity. 23. 

Girls, food requirement for, 187. 

Glucose, see Dextrose. 

Gluten. 293. 

Glycogen. 59. 

Goiter, exophthalmic, 242. 

Goldberger, 70. 

Golden dressing, 321. 

Goose. 332. 

Gooseberries, 334. 

Graham bread, 109. 

puffs, 285. 
Grains, see Cereals. 
Granola, 329. 
Granose biscuits, 330. 
Granuto, 329. 
Grapefruit, 212, 334. 

salad, 316. 
Grape-nuts, 329. 
Grape salad, 315. 
Grapes, 334. 
Gravies, 155, 161. 
Greasy foods, 55. 
Green pea sandwich, 171. 
Griddle cakes, 185, 330. 
Grits, hominy, 330. 

wheat, 330. 
Gruels, 158, 226, 293, 330. 

Haddock, 332. 

Halibut, 332. 

Ham, 332. 

Hardening of the arteries, 244. 

Headache, 24, 25, 148, 231. 

Hemoglobin, 102. 

Heart disease, 28, 244, 246. 

High blood pressure, 28, 137, 244, 246. 

Hives, 279. 

Home-ground wheat, 110. 

bread. 289. 
Homemade protose, 305. 
Hominy, 330, 342. 
Hominy grits, 330. 
Honey. 60. 62. 89, 183. 212, 337. 
Hormones, 69. 
Horse meat. 133. 
Huckleberries. 334. 
Hunger. 22. 151. 

Hydrochloric acid, 23, 84, 113, 114. 
Hydrogen, 11. 
Hygrienic hot cakes. 292. 
Ice cream, 154, 183, 337. 
Idiosyncrasies, 273. 
Indigestible foods, 22. 51, 52, 54, 96. Ill, 

120, 152. 173. 185. 282. 
Indigestion. 21, 22. 23. 231, 235. 
Influenza, 230. 



Intemperance, 143. 
Internal secretions, 60, 69, 242, 243. 
Intestines, digestion in, 14. 15. 61, 59. 
fermentation and putrefaction in, 15, 
23, 25, 51, 136, 193, 266. 
Iodine. 11, 83. 
Iron, 11, 102, 121. 
Italian salad, 317. 

Jelly, cucumber, 319. 

currant, 335. 

orange. 325. 

roll, 336. 

tomato, 318. 
Jewish method of slaughtering, 135. 
Junket. 182. 233. 267. 337. 

Katabolism. 17, 31. 

Kidneys. 18. 19, 27. 137. 142, 143. 

Krumbles, 330. 

Lady fingers. 337. 

Levulose. 14. 60. 

Lamb. 227, 332. 

Lard. 50. 

Leaf vegetables, 76, 77, 79, 100, 101, 103. 

180. 210, 211. 238. 245. 249. 
Leaves. 76. 77, 99, 100, 101, 107, 208. 
Legumes. 11. 100. 

protein of, 46, 47, 79. 
Lemon, 142. 334. 

juice. 142, 336. 342. 

pie. 337. 

sauce. 322. 
Lemonade, 336. 
Lentil sandwich, 171. 
Lentils, 47. 100. 333, 342. 
Lettuce. 48. 99. 333, 342. 

sandwich, 171. 
Liquid diet, 229. 
Lobster, 332. 

Low protein, 40, 191, 194, 223, 234. 
Lumbago, 28. 
Lunch. 159. 

for school. 186. 
Lungs. 16. 30. 51. 

Macaroni, 47, 338, 342. 

Macaroons, 337. 

Magnesium, 11, 82. 

Malnutrition. 40, 235, 237. 259. 269. 

Malted milk. 338. 342. 

nuts. 212. 339. 
Maple sirup. 338, 345. 

sugar, 338. 
Mastication. 21, 102, 175. 185. 196. 282. 

283. 
Mayonnaise dressing, 319. 
McCann, 90. 261. 

McCollum. 73, 77. 79. 100, 101, 126. 127. 
Measles. 230. 
Meat, 12. 40, 124-139. 201. 282. 

extracts, 135, 145, 150. 

substitutes, 46, 155-171. 
Mechanical phase of digestion. 13. 
Melons. 335. 
Meltose, 339. 342. 
Menus, breakfast, 163, 211. 

dinner, 165. 214. 

for diabetic patient. 251. 



350 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 



Metabolism of carbohydrates, 18, 29, 60. 

of fats, 18, 51. 

of protein, 18, 20, 28. 
Milk. 12. 41. 47, 50, 76, 77, 116, 129. 152, 
158. 184, 191, 195, 206, 224, 261, 
269, 331, 342. 

a protective food, 101, 129. 

boiled, 119, 175, 224, 230, 236, 238, 
267. 

caloric value of, 47, 331, 342. 

diet, 191, 195, 263, 265. 

evaporated, 226, 331, 342. 

for children, 180. 

mixture for babies, 179. 

mother's, 179. 

Pasteurized, 70, 119, 179. 

protein of, 47, 122. 

skim, 47, 268. 

vitamines in, 53, 76, 116, 121, 265. 

with fruit, 174. 

with sugar, 153, 180. 
Mill for grinding wheat, 110. 
Mineral salts, 12, 81-91. 
Molasses, 90, 337, 342. 
Muscle tissue as food. 127, 128. 
Mush, 227. 
Mushrooms, 333. 
Mustard, 141. 
Mutton, 332. 
Myalgia. 28. 

Nervous diseases, 25. 
Neurasthenia, 25. 235. 
Neuritis, 28. 
Nitrogen, 12. 18, 28, 38. 
Nitrogenous combinations, 19, 43, 76, 
127. 

equilibrium, 38. 

foods, see Protein. 
No breakfast, 191, 195. 
Nut butter, 170, 339. 

cream toast, 291. 

fillet, 304. 

gravy, 313. 

protein, 208. 

tomato macaroni, 308. 

tomato rice, 212, 308. 

tomato sandwich, 170. 

tomato toast, 211. 292. 
Nuts, 11, 47, 97, 153, 208, 209, 338, 342, 

343. 
Nuttolene, 47. 304, 343. 

Oatmeal, 41, 157, 330. 343. 

as a protein food, 41, 47. 

bread, 288. 

gruel, 293, 330. 
Obesity, 29, 30, 39, 233, 244, 245, 246. 
Olein, 49. 
Oil. 11, 50, 54, 162. 

cooking, 343. 

olive, 54, 237, 343. 

salad, 343. 
Olives, 97, 237, 251, 262, 339, 343. 
Onion, 100, 101, 333, 343. 
Orange, 94, 245, 334. 

jelly. 325. 

juice, 94, 95, 165, 166, 179, 229, 240, 
271, 336. 

marmalade, 336. 
Osteomalacia, 72. 



Oven toast, 14, 111, 185, 238, 290. 
Overeating, 29, 37, 50, 151, 199, 200, 239, 

263. 
Overflavoring, 140. 

Oxidation, 17, 18, 27, 28, 32, 51, 52, 60. 
Oysters, 332. 
Oxygen, 11, 13, 17, 20, 30. .i 

Palmatin, 49. 

Pancreatic juice, 59. 

Parsnips, 333. 

Pasteurized milk, 70, 119. 179. 

Peach, fresh, 334. 

juice, 336. 

sauce, 336, 343. 
Peaches, dried, 343. 
Pear, fresh, 335. 

juice, 336. 

sauce, 336. 
Peanut butter, 170, 339, 342. 
Peanuts, 45, 47, 338, 342. 
Pea pods, 105, 107. 
Peas, dried, 33, 343. 

green, 333, 343. 

puree, 343. 

puree on toast, 291. 
Pea tomato sauce, 314. 
Pecans, 338. 
Pellagra. 70, 71. 
Pepper, 141, 143. 
Peptones, 14. 
Phosphorus, 11, 82, 83. 
Physical changes in digestion, 14. 
Physical superiority of vegetarians, llis. 
Pie, 152, 183. 337. 
Pimples, 52, 241. 
Pineapple, 315. 335, 343. 
Pine nuts, 338. 
Plum, fresh, 335. 

juice, 336. 

sauce. 336. 
Poisons, 24. 
Pork, 133, 331. 
Portal vein, 16. 

Potassium, 11, 81, 83, 86. 87, 222. 
Potato, 100, 101. 105, 160. 

baked, 108, 158, 333. 

boiled, 333. 

fried, 185. 

mashed, 334, 344. 

puflfs, 310. 

skins, 100, 101, 105, 100. 

soup, 296. 

soup stock, 296. 

stuffed, 310. 

sweet, 334, 344. 

water, 344. 
Predigested food, 14. 
Protective foods, 101, 129, 207. 
Protein, 12, 18, 28. 34, 38-48. 127, VIS. 
137, 160, 207, 236. 

animal, 122, 127, 206. 

balance disturbed, 41. 

complete, 19, 43, 223, 281. 

excess, 137. 

foreign, 277. 

in tuberculosis, 260, 262. 

legumes, 79. 

low, 40, 191, 194, 223, 234. 

meat, 127. 

metabolism of, 18, 20, 28. 



INDEX 



351 



Protein, milk, 47. 116, 122. 

nut, 98. 208. 

related to vitamines, 75. 

vegetable, 99, 173, 207, 210. 
Protose, 303. 

and nuttolene sandwich, 171. 

and potato hash, 305. 

braised, 304. 

homemade, 305. 

loaf, 303. 

patties. 303. 

sandwich. 171. 

with onion, 303. 
Proteoses. 14. 
Prunes, 241, 335. 344. 

stuffed, 323. 
Prune fluff toast, 290. 

marmalade, 336. 

whip, 323. 
Ptomaine poisoning, 24, 136. 
Pumpkin, 344. 

pie, 337. 
Putrefaction, 15, 23, 25, 51, 135, 

193, 242, 266. 
Pus infections. 241. 

vegetable salad. 79, 104, 160. 318. 
Pyorrhea. 71. 264. 

Quality of fat. 53. 

of food. 281. 

of protein, 19, 43. 44. 126. 
Quantity of food, 22, 34. 

Raisins, 182, 335, 344. 
Rancid fats. 52. 54. 
Raspberry, black, juice, 336. 

sauce. 336, 344. 
Raspberries, black, fresh, 335, 344. 
Raspberry, red, juice, 336. 

sauce, 336, 344. 
Raspberries, red, fresh, 335, 344. 
Ration, balanced, 38-58. 
Raw food diet, 104, 191, 196. 

vegetables, 77. 79, 101, 104, 238. 
Recipes, 284-328. 
Regularity in eating 178, 283. 
Rheumatism, 28. 137, 244. 
Ribbon loaf, 302. 
Rice. 62. 344. 

biscuits. 330. 

brown. 79. 

browned. 79, 165. 

flakes 330 

polished, 62. 70, 72, 78. 80, 330. 

puffed, 330. 

whole, 330. 
Rickets, 66, 71, 74, 179. 
Rochelle salts, 113. 
Rolled oats, 343. 
Rye and Injun bread, 288. 

Salad dressing, 319. 

sandwich, 171. 
Salads, 79. 104. 160, 315. 
Salmon. 332. 
Salt, table, 247. 
Salts, 12, 81-91. 
Sandwiches. 170, 171. 
Saponification, 15. 
Savora, 302. 



Sauce, fruit. 335. 343, 344. 

vegetable, 162, 313. 
Sausage. 133. 332. 

casings, 133. 
Scarlet fever. 230. 
Scurvy, 70, 73, 74, 103. 179. 

vitamine. 73. 
Sedentai-y habits. 34, 39, 42. 161. 
Seeds, dietary properties of, 79, 100. 
Self-control, 181. 
Self-poisoning. 21, 234. 
Sensitization, 278, 279. 

tests, 279. 
Shad, 332. 

Shellfish, 279, 331, 332. 
Sherbet, 338. 

Shredded- wheat biscuit, 158, 330. 
Silicon, 11. 

Skin, diseases of, 52, 241. 
Skins of fruits, 77. 

of vegetables, 77, 78, 100, 105, 106. 
258. 295. 
Slaughter-house inspection. 133. 
Soda. 81, 84, 112, 113. 114, 297. 
Sodium, 81, 82, 83, 85. 87. 88. 
Soups. 107, 159. 184. 294-302. 
Soy bean. 11, 45, 46, 333, 340. 
Spices, 241. 

Spinach, 36, 48, 99, 100. 101, 152, 311, 
334, 344. 

soufile, 311. 
Spaghetti. 344. 
Squash, 334. 344. 
Starch. 11, 13, 14, 58, 62, 64. 

and acids. 173, 192. 

changed into sugar. 13, 58, 59. 

digestion of, 174. 

in excess, 63, 64. 

making, 13. 
Starchy foods, 62, 63, 64, 65. 
Stearin, 49. 

Stimulants, unnatural, 145. 
Stomach, digestion in. 14. 21, 22. 51. 

effect of condiments on, 141. 142. 

effect of free fat on. 51. 

effect of coffee on. 148. 

stagnation in. 23. 

time for rest. 158, 159, 195, 196, 283. 
Strawberry juice, 336. 

sauce. 336, 344. 
StrawbeiTies, fresh, 335, 344. 
String bean salad. 317. 
String beans, 48, 333. 340. 
Suboxidation, 27-31, 244. 
Sucrose, 60. 

Sugar, 11, 13, 16, 41, 59, 62, 96, 153, 
180, 202, 247, 338, 344. 

cane, 60, 65, 66, 67, 68. 

classification of. 59. 

fruit. 60, 62, 92. 

maple, 60, 338. 

with milk. 174. 180. 
Sulphur, 11, 82, 85. 
Sweets, 181, 182. 

artificial, 66. 181. 

for the child, 66. 181. 182. 183. 

natural, 182, 183, 202. 
Synthesis, 13. 
Sirup, 338, 345. 

Karo, 345. 



352 



THE HOME DIETITIAN 



Sirup, maple, 338, 34.' 
refiners', 90. 



Tannic acid, 146, 1J7. 
Tannin, 146, 147. 
Tapioca, 330, 34.5. 
Taste buds, 140. 
Tea, 146, 147, 339. 
Theine, 146, 147. 
Theobromine, 149. 
Thyroid extract, 69. 

grland, 242. 
Toast, cream egg, 291. 

cream puree of peas, 291. 

cream tomato, 290. 

hot buttered, 112. 

milk, 159. 

nut cream, 291. 

oven, 290. 

prune fluff, 290. 

zwieback, 290. 
Tomato, 48, 95, 104, 334, 345. 

and lettuce salad, 317. 

bisque, 300. 

canned, 78, 95. 179. 

jelly, 318. 

sandwich, 171. 

sauce, 314. 

soup, 297. 298, 299. 
Tryptophane, 44. 
Trout, 332. 
Tuberculosis, 72, 259. 
Tubers, 99. 
Turkey, 332. 
Turnips, 334. 
Typhoid fever, 230. 

Underfeeding, 29, 40, 188, 235, 2.59, 276. 
Urea, 19, 28. 
Uric acid, 19, 28. 

Veal, 332. 

Vegetable butter, 213, 216. 

oils, 54. 

oyster, 334, 345. 



Vegetables. 12. 46, 4S, 76, 79, 87, 99- 
108, 129, 160, 202. 211. 220. 

classification of, 99, 100. 

cooking and preparation, 105, 106. 

food value of, 4S, 332, 340, 343, 344. 
345. 

for children, 180, 184. 

proteins of, 48, 99, 129, 207. 

raw, 79, 104, 196. 

vitamines in, 76, 77, 99. 
Vegetarian consomme, 252, 301. 
Vegetarians, 40, 138. 205. 
Vegex, 302. 



77. 100, 103, 120, 



Vinegar, 142. 
Vitamines, 50, 53 
121, 26.5. 

beriberi, 73. 

fat-soluble A, 73. 

relation to carbohydrate, 75. 

relation to protein. 75. 

scurvy, 73. 

source of, 76. 

water-soluble, 73. 
Voit standard of protein. 233. 

Walnuts. 338, 342. 
Water, 12, 13, 18, 32, 230. 

cress, 345. 

drinking at meals, 177. 

in green vegetables, 104. 
Watermelon, 335. 
Water-soluble B, 73. 
Wheat, cracked, 330, 345. 

cream of, 330, 345. 

flakes, 330. 

grits, 330. 

home-ground, 110, 289. 

protein of, 44, 47. 
Whole-wheat bread, 329. 

flour, 341. 

gems, 285. 

sticks, 287. 

Yogurt, 194, 267, 331. 

Zein, 44. 

Zwieback, HI, 290. See also Oven toast. 



