
Class _ 
Book.___ 



y 



CQEflyCHT DEPOSm 



iyvCAjuy~^J^_.^ , /Otky^ -<i--jr-ccaAA-f 



THE STAR 
COOK BOOK 

THIRD EDITION 



Compiled by the Ladies op the 

'* STAR SOCIETY " 

OP THE Grace M. E. Church, 

Pekin, Illinois. 



We may live without poetry, music, and art; 
We may live without conscience, live without heart; 
We may live without friends, we may live without books; 
But civilized man can not live "without cooks. 

We may lii\e without books: what is knowledge but grieving? 
We may live without hope : what is hope but deceiving? 
We may live without love: what is passion but pining? — 
But where is the man that can live without dining? 

— Owen Meredith. 



PEKIN, ILLINOIS 
"STAR SOCIETY" 






<^^ ^^^ 






Copyright, 1922 

By 

The Star Society. 

Made in U. S. A. 



AUG -4 72 



©CI.A68124 5 



PREFACE 

(Third Edition) 

The ladies of the "Star Society" of the Grace M. E. 
Church of Pekin, Illinois, have been gratified because 
the real merit of The Star Cook Book has been so 
widely recognized. There has been a constant demand 
during the past four years for a Third Edition, and the 
time has come when it can no longer be disregarded. 

The Star Cook Book has been thoroly revised and 
improved by eliminating duplicate recipes, and by add- 
ing many new ones, all of which have been found 
practical in economy, food-value, and appetizing 
quality, and are vouched for by those whose signature 
they bear. In addition the ladies of the "Star 
Society" have tested and approved each recipe. 

Confident that they are making a valuable contribu- 
tion to the art of Home Cooking, this Third Edition of 
the "Star Cook Book" is sent upon its mission by the 
ladies of "The Star Society." 

Grace M. E. Church, 

March 10, 1922. Pekin, III. 




GRACE METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH 

(St. Louis German Conference.) 

Rev. A. L. Koeneke, D. D., Pastor. 

PEKIN, ILL. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



(For complete index of recipes see pages 307-316) 

Soups 9 

Dumplings 17 

Fish and Oysters 21 

Poultry and Game 30 

Meats 37 

Casserole Dishes 54 

Salad Dressing 62 

Salads 62 

Vegetables 75 

Cheese Dishes 88 

Eggs 91 

Breads, Rolls, Coffee Cake, Etc 96 

Hot Breads, Breakfast Cakes, Doughnuts, Short Cakes. 110 

Sandwiches 119 

Sandwich Fillings 120 

Ginger Breads 123 

Cookies and Wafers 126 

Christmas Cookies 135 

Cake Frostings and Fillings 141 

Cakes 141 

TORTE 168 

Pudding Sauces 170 

Puddings and Desserts 172 

Frozen Desserts and Ice-creams 198 

Pastry 205 

Pies 209 

Honeys, Preserves, Etc .• 220 

Pickles and Relishes 231 

Beverages 245 

Candies 248 

MlSCB3vLANEOUS 263 



SOUPS 

* ' Now good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both. ' ' 

— Shakespeare. 

Stock is prepared by extracting the juice of meats 
by slow boiling, after which various ingredients may 
be added to give character to the soup. 

White Stock. — 4 pounds knuckle of veal, 1 pound 
lean beef, 21/2 quarts cold water, 10 pepper corns, 1 
small onion, 2 stalks celery, 1 bay leaf, 1 tablespoonful 
salt. Remove the veal from the bone and cut it in 
small pieces. Do the same with beef, only making the 
pieces smaller. Put meat and bone into a kettle and 
add the water. Bring it slowly to a boil and skim care- 
fully. Add other ingredients and simmer for five hours. 
Strain twice through several thicknesses of cheese cloth 
and the stock will be clear. White stock can be made 
from the water in which a fowl or chicken is cooked. 
This receipe will produce three pints of soup stock. 

Extract of Beef (for sick). — Cut lean round steak 
in squares, put in fruit jar and seal. Then place jar 
in a kettle of cold water and when water comes to a 
boil let it simmer on back of stove until all of the 
juice is extracted from the meat. Serve the pure 
extract or dilute with hot water. Season to taste 

Mrs. Frank Heckman. 

Bouillon. — Select a, good soup bone ; cover with cold 
water and let come slowly to a boil. Add a little celery, 
carrots, parsley, and onion if liked. Salt and pepper 
to taste. Cook well — until meat is tender. Strain. 
Cook day before using; next day skim off all grease, 
reheat and serve. 

Mrs. Ulrich York. 



]0 SOUPS 

Asparagus Soup. — Cut as much asparagus as you 
want, boil in water till tender ; then put as much milk in 
a pan as you want soup, remove asparagus from water 
and add to milk; also add a tablespoon of butter; stir 
a spoon of flour in a little cold milk ; when the asparagus 
boils add the flour and boil; add a little salt, pepper, 
and serve it over toasted bread squares. 

Mrs. p. Heckman, 

Baked Bean Soup. — 1 cup baked beans, 1 cup 
tomato, 3 cups water; cook and strain. Make a sauce 
with 2 teaspoons butter, 2 teaspoons flour, li^ teaspoons 
salt, 1/2 teaspoon mustard, % teaspoon pepper, and 
strained liquid. Let it cook well. If desired, a slice of 
onion may be added to the tomato. 

Miss Helen M. Day. 

Domestic Science, Bradley Institute, 
Peoria, 111. 

Celery Soup. — Chop fine 1 bunch of celery, cover 
with water and boil. When tender add 1 quart of milk ; 
let it come to a boil and add 1 tablespoon of butter, salt 
and pepper to taste. 

Mrs. Mary Woost. 

Cream of Celery Soup. — 2 cups white stock, 2 cups 
celery (cut in inch pieces), 2 cups hot water, one 
small onion, 3 tablespoonsful butter, 3 tablespoonsful 
flour, 1 pint milk, ^ pint cream, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 
half teaspoonful white pepper. Parboil celery in water 
for fifteen minutes, drain and add the celery to the 
stalk. Cook until the celery is very soft. Rub it 
through a sieve. Scald the onion in the milk. Remove 
the onion and add the milk to the stalk. Cream the 
flour and butter together and add them also to the 
stalk. Lastlj^ add the cream and season with the salt 
and pepper. This will serve six persons. 

Other cream soups are made in the same manner by 
using the particular vegetable instead of the celery, 

Mrs. Charles Schaefer. 



SOUPS 11 

Chicken Noodle Soup. — Cut an old chicken in pieces, 
wash it thoroughly, put in soup kettle with as much 
water as you want soup, with a tablespoon of salt, 
a bay leaf, a carrot, and an onion : let it boil slowly 
until the chicken is tender, then strain through a sieve 
in another kettle. 

For noodles, rub into 2 eggs as much sifted flour as 
they will absorb, then roll out until thin as a wafer ; 
dust over a, little flour, and then roll over and over 
into a roll : cut off thin slices from the edge of the roll 
and shake out into long strips ; put them into the soup 
lightly and boil for 10 minutes. 

Mrs. Annette Meinen. 

Chicken Soup. — Take 1 chicken and cut in pieces. 
Wash it thoroughly and put in a soup kettle with 
about two quarts of water, then after taking out the 
chicken add one tablespoon salt and a little nutmeg, 
about ^ teaspoonful. Then take one tablespoonful 
of flour and mix with a little milk to a smooth paste. 
Add the yolks of two eggs beaten into the milk and 
flour. Add to soup and let come to a boil. 

Mrs. John Velde. 

Chocolate Soup. — Put 1 quart of milk in double 
boiler ; add 2 tablespoons of small sago : let boil for 1/2 
hour with a small piece of stick cinnamon ; add 1 small 
square of chocolate, grated. When sufficiently cooked, 
take 2 eggs, beaten separately ; pour the hot chocolate 
soup over the 2 egg yolks, beating constantly. Last 
beat the whites, add a little sugar, and put a small 
portion on each soup bowl. 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. Katherine Boley. 

Cream Soup. — Take half sweet cream and half 
water and bring to a boil. Toast some stale bread and 
break into pieces in a bowl, and pour the cream and 
water over it. Salt to taste. 

Mrs. E. C. Magaret. 



12 SOUPS 

Cream of Corn. — 1 can corn, cover with 3 cups 
water ; simmer for 1 hour and strain. Scald 3 cups 
milk, add the corn and 1 tablespoon of butter creamed 
smooth with 1 tablespoon of flour. Add % cup cream, 
mix until smooth, and season : add beaten yolk of 1 egg. 
Serve at once after egg has been added. 

Mrs. a. H. Purdie. 

Farina Soup. — 1 quart milk, let come to a boil; add 
% cup farina, sugar to sweeten, small stick of whole 
cinnamon, and a pinch of salt. 

Miss Bella Valk. 

Mexican Chili. — l^^ pounds round steak, chopped 
fine, 3 onions, 3 kernels of garlic, cut fine. Fry these 
in two tablespoons of sweet lard; add 3 heaping tea- 
spoons of "Chili pepper," i/o teaspoon of black pepper, 
salt to taste. Cook one half hour then add one can 
of tomatoes, one can of kidney beans. Simmer on 
back ^of range two hours. 

Mrs. Wm. Schaefer. 

Navy Bean Soup. — Soak 1 cup navy beans over 
night. In the morning, about 4 hours before serving, 
drain, wash, add plenty of fresh water and a medium 
size piece of hamshank, also small piece of bacon. Let 
boil slowly and add more water as needed. Season 
with salt and pepper to taste about an hour before 
serving. 

Mrs. George Eldredge. 

Oyster Soup. — Put a pint of oj^sters in a sauce pan 
and cook until edges curl. Add salt to oysters. At 
same time put one quart of milk, a piece of butter 
size of walnut and pepper into another pan, and scald. 
When oysters are curled add them to the milk and 
serve at once. 

Onion Soup. — (For two plates). — Take 2 onions, 
peel and slice ; fry them in butter till soft — do not 
brown them. Boil broth and add onions and grated 
cheese. Season it and serve with small toast. 

Chicago, 111. Mrs. Hugo J. Schmidt. 



SOUPS 13 

Lentil or Split Pea Soup. — 1 cup dried lentils or 
peas, 2 cups water, ^ onion, 2-inch cube fat salt^ 
pork, 3 tablespoons butter, 4 tablespoons flour, li/^ tea- 
spoons salt, 1/^ teaspoon pepper. Pick over lentils or 
peas, soak several hours or over night, drain ; add cold 
water (enough to make 4 cups with amount absorbed), 
pork and onion : simmer until soft — 3 or 4 hours — rub 
through a sieve. Cook butter, flour, and seasoning as 
for White Sauce ; add pulp and cook well. If too thick, 
thin out with water or milk. 

Domestic Science, Bradley Institute, 

Peoria, 111. Miss Helen M. Day. 

Pea Soup with Dumplings. — Put 2 quarts of hulled 
peas on the fire with 4 quarts of water ; put in a 
generous spoonful of butter, and salt to taste. In the 
meanwhile, put a pint of sweet milk in a small skillet, 
add a spoonful of butter and a little salt ; when it boils 
stir in enough flour, keeping the milk over a slow fire, 
till it becomes a dough which loosens from the sides 
and the bottom of the skillet. Take from fire, and 
after it is cooled stir in 5 eggs, 1 at a time. When the 
peas in the soup are done, drop in the dumplings by 
spoonfuls, dipping the empty spoon into the boiling 
soup every time to cause the dumplings to drop off 
from the spoon easily. Let them boil a few minutes. 
Canned peas can be used when peas are out of season. 

-Belleville, 111. Mrs. E. C. Magaret. 

Pocket Book Soup. — Take a soup bone or a good 
piece of soup meat and let boil with enough water to 
make a good broth. Season and add any vegetables 
that you desire. For the pockets (this amount will 
make 8 or 10 pockets), take 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon water, 
1^2 teaspoon salt. Beat up eggs, add salt and water, 
with enough flour to roll out like noodle dough. Cut 
in squares, then add the following : 10 cents worth 
ground pork, or pork and beef ijiixed, 1 cup of soaked 
bread, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful salt, a little pepper, a pinch 
of sage ; mix well : place some on each square of the 



14 SOUPS 

noodle dough, and form a closed pocket, moistening 
the edges so they will stick. Boil in the broth 15 
minutes, and serve with soup. 

Mrs. Henry Koch. 

Potato Soup. — 3 potatoes cut fine, cook in water 
with salt and pepper to suit taste. Brown in skillet 
butter size of an egg, small tablespoon flour, and onion, 
cut fine : put in soup. Flavor with celery or parsley, 
if desired. 

Mrs. Camp Speaker. 

Rice Tomato Soup. — Prepare two quarts of good 
stalk. A shank bone and a ham are preferable for the 
stalk. Cook together slowly for one half hour the 
following: one quart tomatoes, one small red pepper, 
good pinch of nutmeg, small bay leaf, one stalk of cel- 
6i"y> •V2 teaspoon cinnamon, ^/^ teaspoon sage, 5 or 6 
cloves. Strain and add to the soup stalk which has been 
strained also. Cook ^ cup of rice and add to the 
above mixture. Thicken slightly with cornstarch or 
arrow-root. Let boil up thoroughly, salt to taste and 
serve with croutons. 

Mrs. John E. Keene. 

Tomato Soup. — 1 can tomatoes, 1 pint water, 12 
peppercorns, bit of bay leaf, 4 cloves, 1 slice of onion, 
sprig of parsley, 2 teaspoons sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 
Ys teaspoon soda, 2 tablespoons butter, 3 tablespoons 
flour, and a few grains cayenne. Cook the first 8 in- 
gredients 20 minutes : strain ; add salt and' soda ; bind 
and serve. 

Domestic Science, Bradley Institute, 

Peoria, 111. Miss Helen M. Day. 

Tomato Soup. — Stew 1 pint of tomatoes until soft, 
add a pinch of soda ; strain. Boil 1 quart of milk, add 
the tomatoes, butter the size of an egg, salt, and pepper. 

Mrs. J. D. Jansen. 



SOUPS 15 

Vegetable Soup. — Take a piece of soup meat, put 
it on the stove in cold water 4 hours before serving. Do 
not allow to boil hard — just simmer. Add 2 carrots 
cut into dice, 1 stalk celery, 1 large onion, % cup rice, 
salt, and pepper. An hour before serving add 4 po- 
tatoes, cut into small pieces, 2 tomatoes, sliced, or 
^2 cup of canned tomatoes. Just before taking from 
fire add a teaspoonful of finely minced parsley. 

Dora Albertson Rompel. 

Winter Vegetable Soup. — Put a 15 cent beef shin 
bone in large kettle with cold water to cover, about 4 
hours before dinner. Bring slowly to a boil and skim. 
Put on 1 cup of navy beans in cold water, with i^ tea- 
spoon soda added : bring to a boil, boil few minutes, 
drain and rinse. Add to boiling soup meat. About 2 
hours before serving time, add salt, pepper, several 
shakes of celery salt, 1 teaspoon Kitchen Bouquet, and 
the following vegetables : 1 or 2 onions, 1 large cupful 
each of carrots and cabbage, cut fine ; 2 cupfuls po- 
tatoes, cut in dice. Keep boiling steadily till time to 
serve, adding boiling water, if needed. 

Mrs. a. W. Hinners. 

Vegetable Soup with Noodles. — Take a nice piece 
of boiling beef, put on to boil, add 2 whole tomatoes, 
1 small onion, 4 medium-sized carrots, sliced, % of 
small head of cabbage, and 2 layers of noodles; salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg to taste. 

Mrs. Martin Larkin. 

Wine Soup. — One quart water and one fourth cup 
sago. Boil until sago is clear, then add one lemon, 
sliced, one tumbler of red wine and a small handful 
of raisins, a pinch of salt, and one stick of cinnamon. 
Let all come to a good boil. 

Mrs. John Velde. 



Dumplings 

Baked Meat Dumplings. — 1 egg, y2 teacup milk, 2 
teaspoons baking powder, sifted with flour; mix into 
a stiff batter, adding a pinch of salt. Remove roast 
from roasting pan, drop batter by teaspoonful into 
broth, and bake without cover 15 minutes. 

Mrs. Mae Beath. 

Dainty Soup Dumplings. — Beat yolk of 2 eggs, add 

2 level teaspoons flour, and a little salt ; add stiffly- 
beaten whites. Take bone out of soup and pour mix- 
ture on top. Boil, covered, a moment, then turn. Take 
out and cut to serve with soup. 

Quincy, 111. Mrs. Rudolph Wilms, r 

Dumplings. — 2 cups flour, 4 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, ^2 teaspoon salt, I/2 tablespoon butter, % cup 
milk. Sift flour, baking powder, and salt together 2 or 

3 times. Work in butter with the finger tips, and, 
when thoroughly mixed, add milk gradually. Beat 
weil and drop this thick batter by heaping tablespoon- 
fuls upon potatoes or meat in the stew kettle. If liquid 
comes above potatoes or meat, pour oft! a little, as the 
dumplings should not rest on liquid, but on meat or 
potatoes above it. Cover kettle and cook 6 minutes, 
when dumplings should be thoroughly steamed and 
light. Take up dumplings on a separate platter. 

Tremont, 111. JMiss Wilma Fluegel. 

German Dumplings for Beef Soup. — 2 eggs, well 
beaten ; add 2 eggshells milk, 2 eggshells flour, butter 
size of 1 egg. Mix well, put over moderate fire, and stir 
until it is solid : let cool. Add 1 more well-beaten egg, 
and drop with teaspoon in soup. 

Emden, 111. Miss Ella Zimmer. 

German Bread Dumplings. — Take enough dry bread 
to make 3 cupfuls, after being soaked in water. To 
this add 3 well-beaten eggs, 1 teaspoon salt, II/2 cups 
flour, and 2 teaspoons baking powder sifted together. 
Form into little balls and drop in boiling water, to 

17 



18 DUMPLINGS 

which a little salt has been added. Boil about 15 
minutes. These are good with sauer kraut. 

Mrs. R. a. Kief. 

Liver Dumplings. — 10 cents liver, 5 cents bacon; 
grind these and 1 onion: salt and pepper enough to 
season. Beat 2 eggs with these ingredients, add 2 
cups flour and 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Make 
stiff enough so it can be dropped from spoon. Drop 
in boilmg water (pinch of salt added) ; boil 10 minutes. 
Pour hot butter in pan, fry light brown. 

Mrs. Henry Schwartz. 

Marrow Balls for Soup. — Soak 1 cup dry bread 
crumbs, and squeeze out dry ; then put 1 tablespoon of 
butter or marrow in a skillet and stir until butter is all 
absorbed; then take off and let cool. Beat up 1 egg 
light, and mix with bread; add salt, a little parsley: 
make into balls the size of a marble, drop in soup, and 
cover. Let steam 6 minutes. 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. Robert Zimmerman. 

Noodles. — Take IV2 cups of flour, beat up 2 eggs 
and 2 tablespoons of water : mix well and knead. Roll 
out thin to dry; when dry, roll and cut. Boil about 7 
minutes. 

Mrs. Martin Larkin. 

To Serve Noodles.- — P6t noodles in boiling salt water 
10 minutes. Drain and put in dish and take 3 table- 
spoons of butter, I/2 cup bread crumbs and fry brown 
and pour over top and serve. 

Potato Dumplings. — Boil the potatoes the day be- 
fore with jackets on. Grate potatoes, and to 3 parts 
potatoes add 1 part of grated bread, cutting the crusts 
in small bits, and fry brown in butter : to every pint of 
this allow 2 eggs, beating the whites stiff ; mix this well 
with the hands, adding the beaten whites last : salt and 
nutmeg. Form in dumplings, turn in flour, and drop 
into boiling water and boil 15 minutes. 

Quincy, 111. Helen Margaret Wilms. 



DUMPLINGS 19 

Potato Dumplings. — Mash fresh boiled potatoes, 
and beat until light. Work in as much flour as possi- 
ble, allowing a teaspoonful baking powder to a cup 
and 1/2 of flour. Add a tablespoon of cream and a 
beaten egg, with pepper and salt to season. Make into 
balls in the hand, rolling them to about the size of 
pigeon eggs. Have ready in kettle some boiling, 
salted water, and drop in the dumplings, which should 
be stiff enough to keep in shape. Cover immediately, 
putting a weight on lid if necessary, to keep air-tight. 
Cook 20 minutes without uncovering or allowing water 
to stop boiling. Serve hot as a vegetable. If any 
are left over, they are nice fried in butter. 

Mrs. Christ Heckman. 

Potato Dumplings. — Boil 7 large potatoes and mash 
same ; cut 5 slices of white bread into small squares : 
fry bread in butter until a golden brown. Beat 4 eggs, 
then mix potatoes, bread, eggs, and a little grated nut- 
meg, and salt. Form into balls the size of a small 
apple, dredge with flour, and drop into a kettle of 
boiling, salted water. Boil 15 minutes. Serve with 
drawn butter. NOTE. — Fine with veal roast. 

Mrs. Chas. Duisdieker. 

Steamed Dumplings. — 1 pint of flour, well sifted; 
11/2 teaspoons baking powder, butter the size of an egg, 
1 pinch of salt, 1 teaspoon of granulated sugar : mix all 
ingredients together, rub in butter well with palm of 
hand ; add 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 cup of sweet milk : mix 
into dry ingredients just same as biscuit dough; roll 
out, cut half moons with biscuit cutter. Put into 
colander, covered, and steam in kettle half full of 
water, until done. 

4639 Fulton St., Charles Sallhof, 

Chicago, 111. Chef of Stillson's Restaurant. 

"Schwambloszen." — y^ lb. butter, well beaten, 3 
eggs, salt, nutmeg, flour enough to thicken. With a 
teaspoon drop into soup, and let boil 15 minutes. 

Mrs. D. D. Velde. 



FISH AND OYSTERS 

' ' The silvery fish, 
Grazing at large in meadows sub-marine, 
Fresh from the wave, now cheers 
Our festive board. ' ' — Anon. 

Baked Black Bass. — Take a Black Bass of 4 pounds 
or more, thoroughly clean and wash it in cold water, 
then rub with salt inside and out, and put in a cool 
place until the dressing is prepared, as follows: 1^ 
cups bread crumbs, 1 small onion, 1 level teaspoon 
salt, 1 pork chop, ground fine; 1 tablespoon butter, 
pepper to taste. Mix all together with a little milk or 
water, and fill the fish and pin together with skewers. 
Place in the roasting pan with 2 cups of water, and 
several lumps of butter on the fish. Bake from 1 to 
11/2 hours. When done, lift the fish very carefully and 
garnish with small, white, pickled onions. Add to the 
gravy 1 tablespoon flour mixed with lump of butter 
and 1 tablespoon tomato catsup : let boil for a few 
minutes longer. Mrs. Henry Weber. 

Cod Fish Balls. — 1 cup cold, mashed potatoes ; 1 cup 
cod fish, boiled, and the bones removed ; 1 egg, a little 
salt and pepper. Mould into balls and drop in hot 
lard until brown. Serve with lemon sauce, if desired. 

Peoria, 111. Miss Tena Meints. 

Fulton Market Clam Chowder. — (Enough for party 
of 6.) — 18 large clams, well washed; scrub with brush, 
and sound all to see that they are alive. Put in a stew 
pan with a pint of water, and boil until all clams are 
open, and loose ; remove clams from shell ; strain liquor 
through napkin to remove all sand. 1/4 lb. of salt 
pork, cut very fine; 2 stalks of celery, cut very fine; 
3 large onions, cut very fine; fry above ingredients 
together lightly : add 3 tablespoons of flour. Mix well, 
add clam juice and clams, and % pint of tomatoes, 
Yo teaspoon of thymes, 1 bay leaf, 3 large potatoes, cut 

21 



22 FISH AND OYSTERS 

into small squares : cook all until potatoes are done ; 
season with salt to suit taste (clams are usually salty 

^^^^S^)- Charles Sallhop, 

Chicago, 111, Chef of Stillson's Restaurant. 

Finnan Haddie Delmonico. — Take a finnan Haddie, 
skin and boil until tender, then flake and pick out all 
bones. Make sauce with a cup of cream and a cup of 
milk, boiled ; thicken with little butter and flour, add 
2 hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine ; 14 lb- of American 
cheese, chopped fine : put in finnan Haddie and let boil. 
Serve on toast. Season with salt, grated nutmeg, and 
pepper to suit taste. 

Charles Sallhof, 

Chicago, 111. Chef of Stillson's Restaurant. 

Fish Planked. — Wash and drain well 1 medium-sized 
white fish (2^^ or 3 lbs.) ; salt and pepper. Take a 
hickory plank about 1 inch thick and to fit in oven, 
and let soak in cold water for I/2 hour ; dry, and butter 
on 1 side: place the fish in center of the plank and put 
mashed potatoes all around fish, patting them down 
well, to keep the juice from running out; cut several 
small holes in side of fish and fill with butter. Bake 
in oven % of an hour, and serve on plank. Before 
removing from oven, add a sliced lemon, allowing juice 
to soak in fish and potatoes. Mrs. R. 0. Lord. 

Fish Chops. — 1 large can salmon, 1 cup white sauce, 
1/2 teaspoon salt, 3 rolled shredded wheat biscuits. 
White sauce : Boil 1 cup milk, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 
large tablespoon butter, salt. Drain otf the oil and 
pick the salmon very fine ; mix the seasoning thor- 
oughly with 1 biscuit and bind together with the white 
sauce. Set away to get cold : shape into chops, roll in 
1 well-beaten egg, then in the sifted biscuit crumbs. 
Fry in deep lard, put only 1 shredded biscuit into 
chops; the others are to go on outside. Serve with 
slices of lemon. 

Champaign, 111. Mrs. John Sass. 



FISH AND OYSTERS 23 

Herring Balls. — (German Style.) — 2 Herring, 1 lb. 
hamburg steak, 1 small onion, 1 egg, i/^ cup cracker, 
or bread crumbs, milk enough to moisten crumbs. 
Soak herring for 6 hours, then skin and pick meat 
from bones : chop and mix with steak, onion, egg, and 
crumbs, adding salt and pepper to taste, leaving a 
heaping tablespoon of the herring meat for the gravy. 
In a skillet put a rounding tablespoon of lard and a 
large tablespoon of flour (brown this) ; then add the 
spoonful of herring meat; add water enough to make 
a rather thin gravy: now form the mixture in round 
balls and drop into the gravy. Boil 45 minutes, turn- 
ing frequently. Mrs. Fred Nolte. 

Oysters, Baked. — These have a different flavor from 
scalloped oysters and are nice for a change. Butter a 
common, granite pie-plate, and cover with the depth 
of 1/4 of an inch with fine bread crumbs. Moisten 
slightly with oyster liquid, then place large oysters 
upon the crumbs, dotting plentifully with bits of but- 
ter, and adding salt and pepper to taste. Dip a tea- 
spoonful of cream over them, and bake 10 minutes. 
Serve them in the dish they were baked in, wrapping 
the edge with a folded napkin. A small plate of sliced 
lemons should accompany this dish. 

Peoria, 111. Edna Thomas. 

Oysters, Creamed. — 1 pint oysters, i/^ cup white sauce, 
Ys teaspoonful celery salt. Cook oysters until plump 
and edges begin to curl. Drain and add to white 
sauce, seasoned with celery salt. Serve on toast. (% 
cup of sliced mushrooms may be added to creamed 
oysters.) 

Peoria, 111. Edna A. Thomas. 

Oyster Chowder. — Drain and chop 50 oysters ; 1 cup- 
ful finely chopped celery, 2 cups cold, boiled rice. Put 
a layer of the celery in the bottom of a sauce pan; 
over this put a layer of rice, a layer of washed oysters ; 
season with salt and pepper ; repeat until materials are 
u.sed ; pour over cup of boiling water. Cook slowly for 
25 minutes. Into the beaten yolks of 2 eggs pour 1 



24 FISH AND OYSTERS. 

cup of milk, and add to the chowder. Stir carefully a 
few minutes and serve hot. 

Mrs. Thos. Reiken. 

Oysters, Escalloped. — Have ready about a pint bowl 
of fine cracker-crumbs. Butter a deep, earthen dish, put 
a layer of the cracker-crumbs on the bottom ; wet this 
with some of the oyster liquor. Next, have a layer 
of oysters; spinkle with salt and pepper, and lay 
small bits of butter upon them ; then another layer of 
cracker-crumbs and oyster juice, then oysters, pepper, 
salt, and butter, and so on, until the dish is full — the 
top layer to be cracker-crumbs. Beat up an egg in a 
cup of milk and turn over all. Cover the dish and set 
it in the oven for 30 or 45 minutes. When baked 
through, uncover the top, set on the upper grate, and 
brown. Miss Minnie Schurman. 

Oysters, Fried. — Take large oysters, drain off liquor; 
have cracker-dust made by crushing with a rolling 
pin ; salt well. Take 1 oyster at a time, roll in cracker- 
dust, and lay on a meat-board or platter by itself, until 
all are so encased and laid in rows ; let remain 15 min- 
utes: then take the oyster first rolled in cracker-dust 
and dip in beaten eggs, then the second, and so on, 
until all are dipped; then roll in cracker-dust, follow- 
ing the same order as before. Now drop oysters 
lightly into hot lard; when a light brown, turn the 
other side, then remove to a colander and drain for a 
moment. Serve while hot on a hot platter. 

Mrs. Fearn Wilson. 

Oysters, Pried. — Take large, nice oysters ; drain them, 
roll each in beaten egg, then in cracker-crumbs, m 
which have been mixed a. little salt and pepper ; fry in 
a mixture of equal parts of butter and lard. Serve 
hot. Mrs. Anna Arends. 

Oyster Fritters. — Scald 2 dozen large oysters in their 
own liquor ; then chop them finely and mix with a cup- 
ful of the liquor, which has been drained off and passed 
through a cheese-cloth strainer. Heat to the scalding 
point. Stir in 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and 1 table- 



FISH AND OYSTERS 25 

spoonful of butter, which have been mixed previously 
into a smooth paste. Cook until thick and smooth ; 
add salt and pepper to taste, and add the beaten yolks 
of 2 eggs and a little minced parsley. Turn out on a 
buttered platter and set away until cold and firm. Cut 
fat bacon into very thin slices, and wrap around a 
cylinder of the oyster mixture. Dip into the batter 
given below, and fry in hot fat. 
Peoria, 111. Edna Thomas. 

Batter. — Beat the yolk of 2 eggs, and add i/^ cup- 
ful of ice water, 1 tablespoonful of olive oil, and a cup- 
ful of flour. Season with a saltspoonful of salt, beat 
hard, stir in the stiffly-whipped whites of the eggs, 
and keep in the ice box until wanted. 

Peoria, III. Edna Thomas. 

Oyster Omelet. — Beat 3 eggs lightly, add 4 table- 
spoonfuls of rich milk, 1 saltspoon of salt, a dash of 
caj^enne pepper, 1 tablespoonful of flour, sifted with a 
level teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat these all 
well together, add 1 cupful of oysters, each cut in 2 or 
more pieces, then fry as any omelet, folding one-half 
over the other. Garnish with lemon points and parsley 
when serving. 

Peoria, 111. Edna A. Thomas. 

Pigs in Blanket. — 1 dozen large oysters, 1 dozen 
slices of bacon, seasoning ; pick over oysters carefully, 
roll each in a slice of bacon, and fasten the ends with 
skewer ; put in hot spider, or chafing dish, and fry until 
bacon is crisp. Serve very hot. 

Mrs. J. H. Soldwedel. 

Salmon Creamed. — 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 1 cup 
hot, sweet milk, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, pinch of pepper, 
1/4 teaspoonful salt, 1 can salmon. Melt butter in a 
sauce pan, add flour, salt, and pepper, and mix until 
perfectly smooth ; then add very slowly the hot milk, 
beating all the time ; cook until thick : remove bones 
and skin from salmon, break into small pieces, and stir 
lightly into sauce ; when heated thoroughly, serve. 

Tremont, 111. Miss Wilma Fluegel. 



26 FISH AND OYSTERS 

Salmon Croquettes. — 1 can Blue Ribbon salmon, 1 
heaping: tablespoon butter, 1/2 cup flour. Heat butter 
and flour into a. paste, add % cup of milk, a little 
lemon juice ; add salmon, and make into croquettes. 
Roll in cracker crumbs, and fry in hot lard or butter. 

Mrs. Thos. Reiken. 

Scalloped Salmon. — 1 scant teacup of flour, 1 cup of 
cold water, yolks of 2 eggs, salt and pepper to taste. 
Put 1 quart of milk on to boil ; when boiling, stir in 
mixture and % cup of butter. Bake in buttered dish, 
with first a layer of sauce, then salmon, then of sauce, 
and a few cracker-crumbs on top. Bake 1 hour in 
moderate oven ; also nice in individual bakers. 

Mrs. G. a. Kuhl. 

Salmon Loaf. — 1 can of salmon, 1 teaspoonful salt, 
V4 teaspoonful pepper, 1 teaspoonful onion juice. 

Sauce for Same. — 1 egg, 1 tablespoonful butter, 2 
tablespoonfuls of flour, I/2 pint hot milk. Melt the 
butter, add the flour, then add the hot milk. Boil, and 
remove from stove and add well-beaten egg. Now add 
the salmon, to which the salt, pepper, and onion juice 
has been added, mix well, and bake in buttered pan. 
Before putting in oven, place bread crumbs and lumps 
of butter on top. Bake about i/o hour. 

Mrs. Mary Saal. 

Salmon Loaf. — 1 can salmon, 2 eggs, well beaten; 
salt and white pepper to suit taste, 2 tablespoons of 
melted butter, 1 cup dried bread crumbs. Steam in 1 
lb. of baking powder can 1 hour. Garnish with parsley. 

Peoria, 111. Miss Tena Meints. 

Salmon in a Mould. — Take 1 can of salmon, pour off 
the oil, remove all the bones, and stir the fish until 
smooth ; add 2 tablespoons melted butter, l/o cup fine 
bread crumbs, 3 well-beaten eggs, pepper, and salt : put 
in a covered dish (well-buttered), steam 1 hour; turn 
on a platter, and pour over it sauce made as follows : 

1 cup of sweet milk, 1 tablespoon corn starch, wet 
with a little milk; add oil from the salmon and 1 egg, 
well beaten : boil slowly until it thickens. 

Grace Siebens. 



FISH AND OYSTERS 27 

Salmon, with Scrambled Eggs. — 1 large can salmon, 
flaked; 6 eggs, % cup milk, 14 teaspoon salt, pinch of 
cayenne, 1 rounding tablespoon butter, 1 of chopped 
parsley. Break eggs into bowl and beat slightly; add 
milk, pepper, salt. Melt butter, and when hot, add egg 
mixture. When this begins to thicken, add salmon, 
cook just a little, and sprinkle with parsley. Serve on 
hot toas|;. This will make 6 good-sized portions. Nice 
for chafing dish. Mrs. Irving M. Weimer. 

Salmon on Toast.— Make a cupful of drawn butter- 
sauce by melting a tablespoonful of butter, adding a 
tablespoon of flour, and 1 cup of boiling water, when 
the butter and flour are well blended. Season to taste. 
Add 1 can of flaked salmon and 1 beaten egg. Serve 
on toast. Elsie Weaver. 

Shrimps, Creamed. — To l^/g cups of milk add 1 can 
shrimps, butter the size of an English walnut, 1 tea- 
spoon of flour. Cook over slow fire, stirring until 
thick. Serve on rosette. 

Rosette. — 1 egg, 1 teaspoon sugar, pinch of salt, 1 
cup of milk, 1% cups flour. Beat until smooth. Dip 
rosette iron in hot lard to heat before dipping it into 
the batter, not letting batter come over top of iron. 
Return it to the hot lard, thoroughly covering the iron 
with same for about 25 seconds. Serve hot. 

Peoria, 111. Edna Thomas. 

Shrimp Wiggle. — Make a crea,m sauce of 1 cup milk. 
1 heaping tablespoon butter, 1 level tablespoon flour, 
salt and pepper. To this add 1 cup flaked shrimp and 
1 cup peas. Nice for chafing dish. 

Mrs. Phil. H. Sipfle. 

White Fish, Broiled. — Split the fish and remove the 
back bone. Season with salt and pepper, and put it 
in a wire toaster and hold it over glowing fire coals, 
flesh side down, for about 10 minutes, or until nicely 
browned ; then turn the skin side down, and cook 5 
minutes longer. Serve with the following sauce : Put 



28 FISH AND OYSTERS 

2 heaping tablespoons of butter in a warm place where 
it will turn to oil, but not fry ; add the juice of a. lemon, 
also V2 teaspoon onion juice. Pour over the fish and 
serve. This sauce is a great improvement to any fish 
— very nice on halibut steak, red snapper, or trout. 

Mrs. Phil. H. Sipple. 



POULTRY AND GAME 

"Let's carve him as a dish fit for the gods, 
Not hew him as a carcass. ' ' — Julius Caeser. 

Fowls are better if killed the day before using ; and 
during the winter months keeping a longer time is an 
improvement. 

All kinds of poultry and meats can be cooked 
quicker by adding to the water in which they are 
boiled, a little vinegar or a piece of lemon. A piece of 
baking soda the size of a pea will answer the same 
purpose, 

A fowl, to be stewed, should be dropped in cold 
water. This extracts the juices and renders the gravy 
richer. To be boiled whole and preserve the juices, it 
should be put in boiling water. 

Lard rubbed over a fowl, that is prepared for roast- 
ing, will prevent burning. 

To remove down from ducks and geese, remove the 
feathers, then sprinkle powdered rosin over the duck, 
or goose, and dip in a kettle of boiling water two or 
three times. The down can easily be removed with 
the fingers. 

To Dress Poultry. — After picking and singeing, make 
an incision at the lower part of the breast bone, cut 
off the oil-bag, and remove entrails, carefully preserv- 
ing the giblets. Remove the gall-bag from the liver 
with great care. Make an incision through the thick 
part and first lining of the gizzard, peeling off the 
fleshy part. Clean the heart and throw all into slightly 
salted water. Cut off feet at first joint, cut a slit in 
neck and take out wind-pipe and crop, then wash the 
fowl inside, rinsing in salt water is desirable. 

To Bake Poultry and Game. — After seasoning, put 
fowl in baking pan on top of stove and add one cup 

30 



POULTRY AND GAME 31 

of boiling water and let steam until tender. Then put 
in oven and bake until brown. 

Oyster Dressing". — Soak one loaf of bread one-half 
hour, then put a heavy skillet on the stove and let it 
get hot. Add one heaping tablespoon of butter. 
Squeeze out bread, not too dry, put in hot skillet with 
butter, stirring often to keep from burning. Then add 
two more tablespoons of butter and season with pepper 
and salt. Let stand on back of stove and cook slowly 
for fifteen minutes. Before serving put in one pint of 
oysters and add six cooking spoons of Turkey or 
Chicken gravy. Mrs. John Velde. 

Chicken a la King. — Two tablespoons of butter, one 
cup of mushrooms, one green pepper, one-half tea- 
spoon of salt, two tablespoons of flour, two cups of 
milk, three cups of cooked chicken, one-half cup 
chicken stock. Melt butter and in it cook mushrooms 
broken in pieces. After three or four minutes add 
flour and salt, and stir until frothy ; add milk and stir 
until the sauce boils. Set over hot water and add 
chicken, chopped pepper and chicken stock. Cover 
and let stand to become hot. Serve on toast. 

Cora Albertsen. 

Chicken Cheese. — 1 or 2 chickens cut up. Scald the 
feet and skin them. Cook all together till very tender. 
When done, take out, remove all the bones, and grind 
very fine. Season with salt, pepper, and butter, and 
return to the water in which they were boiled. Cook 
until the liquid is almost gone, then pour the contents 
into a dish ; lay a plate over it ; put on a weight. Slice 
cold. 

Quiney, III. i • Mrs. Wm. Balcke. 

Chicken Croquettes. — Put 1 cup milk in sauce-pan 
on the fire ; when boiling, add lump of butter as large 
as an egg, to which has been added a tablespoonful of 
flour. Let boil till thick ; when cool, add salt, pepper, 
chopped onion, and chopped chicken, some bread 
crumbs, a little chicken gravy, and an egg. Roll in 
cracker-dust and fry. 

Ridgewood, N. J. Mrs. Kuhlman. 



32 POULTRY AND GAME 

Chicken, Fried. — Wash and cut chicken in small 
pieces. Salt and pepper and roll in flour. Fry golden 
in part butter and lard ; then add one-half cup of water 
and let steam until dry; turn and repeat. 

Chicken Pie. — Bone 1 chicken ; mix % cup of butter, 
2 tablespoons flour, 1 cup of cream, 2 cups of broth, 
and pour over chicken. Beat 1 egg in cup and fill 
with cream. Add 1 cup flour and 2 tablespoons of 
baking powder. Drop in spoonfuls over chicken, and 
bake in hot oven. 

Springfield, 111. Mrs. Jess. 

Chicken Pie. — Put chicken on in cold water, and 
cook until tender ; let it stand in broth until cool ; re- 
move the bones and pick the meat to pieces : take 3 
tablespoons melted butter, 3 tablespoons flour, pepper 
and salt, and mix with 3 cups of broth and 1 cup 
sweet milk ; cook until smooth, and pour over chicken, 
which has been placed in a deep pan. Keep warm 
while you prepare crust. 

Crust. — 2 cups flour rubbed into 2 tablespoons butter, 
1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder, sifted in 
with flour ; 1 beaten egg, 1 cup sweet milk : add this to 
flour and butter, stir to batter. Spread over chicken 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Mason City, 111. Mrs. 0. F. Weber. 

Chicken Pot-Pie. — Cut up the chicken as for chicken 
pie, put in a kettle, cover with water and add salt. 
When about half done add potatoes cut in quarters. 
Have ready a light biscuit dough, cut in squares, lay 
on top of chicken and boil twenty minutes without 
lifting cover. Remove chicken from kettle, cover with 
crust. Season and thicken gravy and pour over it. 

Chicken, Pressed. — Boil fowl until tender, mince the 
meat very fine, then take the broth in which it was 
boiled, strain and season to taste, add celery chopped 
fine. Last add the meat and boil until it starts to 
thicken. Place in mold and set on ice. 

Cora M. Albertsen. 



POULTRY AND GAME 33 

Chicken, Creamed. — Boil chicken until it falls off the 
bones and have about one quart of stock. Season to 
taste. Let cool and cut meat in small pieces. Put two 
tablespoons of butter in a pan and two tablespoons of 
flour, blend and add one pint of milk, and boil until 
it thickens. Add the chicken which has been cut up 
in small pieces, and the stock. Mix well together and 
serve on toasted bread. Malinda Kriegsman. 

Chicken, Stewed with Brown Gravy. — Take a dressed 
chicken, cut in pieces; roll in flour, fry in half butter 
and half lard ; salt and pepper, and fry brown on both 
sides ; when brown, lay in bread pan ; take 1 onion, 
slice, and lay between meat ; add enough boiling water 
so it is even with meat ; cover and put in oven, and 
baste once in a while. Mrs. Nelson Sheppert, Sr. 

Dressing" for Fowl. — 1 loaf stale white bread, ^2 cup 
butter, % lb. pork, ground fine ; 1 large apple, 1 me- 
dium onion, 3 eggs, % cup finely-chopped celery. Fry 
onions in butter to light brown, add diced apple, and 
steam a little while; add pork and liver of fowl, and 
fry until rawness is out of meat ; add bread which has 
been soaked in water (and squeezed out), set aside to 
cool, and add celery and eggs. 

Mrs. H. p. Weyhrich. 

Dressing Baked Separate. — Take the liver, gizzard, 
and heart of a chicken ; good-sized onion, and grind ; 
take a loaf of» stale baker's bread and cut off hard 
crusts. Take the soft part and slice and soak in water ; 
squeeze out water, mix with ground portion, add 1 tea- 
spoon of salt, a little pepper, cloves, allspice, nutmeg, 
and sweet marjoram ; beat up 2 eggs, mix all together ; 
put in a buttered baking dish, add enough brown 
chicken gravy to cover dressing, cover with a lid, and 
bake IV2 hours. Mrs. Nelson Sheppert, Sr. 

Dressing for Either Duck or Goose. — 1 whole onion, 
smothered in butter ; 2 cups either riced or mashed 
potatoes, 1 cup bread crumbs, 1 teaspoon dry mustard, 
1 tablespoon vinegar, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon 
sage, 1/2 teaspoon grated nutmeg, V2 teaspoon each salt 



34 POULTRY AND GAME 

and pepper, 2 eggs, beaten hard. Add giblets, par- 
boiled, and run through chopper. 

St. Paul, Minn. Mrs. John W. Nabersberg. 

Potato JDressing. — To 1 cupful of mashed potatoes 
add butter size of an egg, 1 cupful cream, 1 well-beaten 
egg, season with salt, pepper, and sage ; cut bread in 
small cubes and brown in oven; add about an even 
pint of the bread to the above mixture, cover, and let 
stand until the cubes have absorbed the extra moisture. 

Tremont, 111. Mrs. Bird. 

Pickled Rabbits. — Clean and quarter rabbits. Lay 
in a little salt water an hour or so, to draw out im- 
purities ; take out and boil in water till tender. When 
done, take out of water and pack in jar, and pour over 
all a pickle made of vinegar, some pepper kernels, 
onion and lemon slices, and a few bay leaves. Cover 
with plate and tie up well. To be eaten cold ; nice for 
supper. Mrs. Robert Weimer. 

Roast Wild Duck. — Wipe and dry fowl, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper inside and out; place in a deep 
dripping pan, and place a slice of bacon on the breast 
of the duck, fastened with tooth-picks ; if large, place 
2 slices on a duck. Roast % hour without water, and 
uncovered, in a rather hot oven ; then add hot water, 
and baste every 20 minutes. Remove the bacon the 
last 1/2 hour ; now turn breast downward, and cover. 
2 hours should be sufficient to roast an ordinary-sized 
duck, the last half moderately hot. When ready to 
serve, remove duck to a warm platter and make a 
thickening of a tablespoon of flour mixed with a little 
cold water. Add to liquid in the pan, stir briskly, add 
more water, salt and pepper to suit. Strain. 

Mrs. E. B. Sanborn. 

Rabbit (Baked). — Take 2 rabbits and cut in pieces; 
soak in salt water over night ; next morning wipe dry 
with cloth, roll in flour and fry brown on both sides in 
a skillet, to which 1 tablespoon of lard and tablespoon 
of butter have been added. After all rabbit has been 
fried, then put in roasting pan, take 1 large onion and 



POULTRY AND GAME 35 

about % teacup of tomatoes and put between meat ; 
add salt and pepper to taste, and cover with water. 
Bake in oven about 2 hours, and add more water if 
needed. 

Mrs. Frank Heckman. 

Spiced Sour Rabbit. — Cut rabbit, and let stand for 
several days in about a quart of vinegar, 1 large sliced 
onion, salt, pepper, whole cloves, a little nutmeg, and 
stick cinnamon. When ready to cook, place pieces of 
rabbit in skillet, or dripping pan, with a little water, 
put slices of thin bacon over the top, bake in oven. 

Mason City, 111. Mrs. 0. F. Weber. 

Snipe. — Pick and clean the birds same as other game, 
then season with salt and pepper, and roll each bird in 
flour; fry a nice brown in plenty of lard and butter, 
then put in a stew pan and cover with milk, and stew 
slowly for about II/2 hours ; as the milk boils away 
add a little more milk or hot water (put an asbestos 
lid under pan to keep them from scorching) ; thicken 
the broth with creamed-flour for gravy; strain and 
serve with the birds. 

Mrs. G. N. Weber. 

Wild Duck, Stewed. — Prepare them same as chicken, 
let them stew slowly for 1 hour, closely covered ; then 
season with salt and pepper and mixed spices ; stew 
another I/2 hour, or until tender ; stir a large spoon of 
brown flour in a little water, and add to the stew. Tie 
the spices in a cloth. Mrs. John Bohlander. 



MEATS 

"Some ha'e meat and canna eat, 
And some wad eat that want it ; 
But we lia 'e meat, and we can eat, 
Sa let the Lord be thanket. ' ' 
— Burns. 

SAUCES FOR FISH AND MEAT 

Beet Relish. — 1 quart cooked beats, chopped fine ; 1 
quart raw cabbage, chopped fine; 1 heaping table- 
spoonful salt, 1/^ cup grated horseradish, 1 cup sugar, 
enough vinegar to moisten. 

Allentown, 111. Miss Mae Sperry. 

Caper Sauce. — One bottle capers, 20 drops of tobasco 
sauce, y^ cup strong vinegar, yolks of 4 raw eggs 
beaten stiff with i/^ teaspoon of salt. Thin with 1 cup 
of olive oil or melted butter adding vinegar to blend 
smoothly. Lastly add capers. 

Louise Velde. 

Cranberry Jelly. — To 1 quart cranberries add 1 pint 
water ; boil 5 minutes, then strain : put on fire, add 1 
pint sugar; boil a few minutes, and remove from fire. 

Mrs. R. D. Lackman. 

Cranberries Baked. — Spread out 1 quart cranberries 
in shallow granite pans, having 1 layer in each pan. 
Sprinkle over them II/2 cups sugar, and pour enough 
water in the pans to come up to a level with the berries, 
and bake very slowly till tender. Set aside until cold, 
and then separate the berries with a silver fork. They 
should resemble candied cherries, and the juice should 
be a rich red color. Mrs. Irving M. Weimer. 

Fish Sauce. — Blend 1 teaspoonful butter with 1 heap- 
ing teaspoonful flour. Add 1/0 cup cream, and boil 
Season with salt, pepper, and paprika. Add 4 tea- 
spoons mayonnaise dressing, 2 teaspoons tomato cat- 
sup, juice of 1/2 lemon, i/^ teaspoon mustard, .^ tea- 

37 



38 MEATS 

spoon "Worcestershire sauce, 4 drops tobasco sauce. 
Stir while boiling, and serve hot. A little grated onion 
greatly improves the sauce. Will serve from 6 to 8 
persons. 

Mrs. Wm. E. Schurman. 

French Mustard. — 4 tablespoonfuls dry mustard, 3 
tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 tablespoonful cinnamon, 1/2 
tablespoonful each of cloves and black pepper, 1 table- 
spoonful wheat flour, 1 big cup white vinegar. Cover 
with the vinegar, and let come to a boil. 

Peoria, 111. Edna A. Thomas. 

Hot Horseradish Sauce. — 1 tablespoon rolled cracker- 
crumbs, 1/2 cup grated horseradish, 1 cup cream, 1 tea- 
spoon each of salt and sugar, dash of pepper, 2 table- 
spoons vinegar ; cook over hot water till well blended. 

St. Paul, Minn. Mrs. John L. Hinners. 

San Jose, 111. Mrs. Fannie G. Brauer. 

Mint Sauce. — i/o cup finely-chopped mint leaves, % 
cup vinegar, 1 tablespoonful powdered sugar. Add 
sugar to vinegar. When dissolved, pour over mint and 
let stand 30 minutes on back of range to infuse. If 
vinegar is very strong, dilute with water. 

Peoria, 111. Edna A. Thomas. 

ACCOMPANIMENTS TO MEATS 

Roast Beef. — Tomato Sauce, Cranberry Sauce, Mush- 
room Sauce, Vegetables in season, Yorkshire Pudding. 

Roast Pork. — Apple Sauce. Cranberry Sauce, Mus- 
tard, Root Vegetables and Greens. 

Roast Veal. — Cranberry Sauce, Tomato Sauce, 
Spinach. 

Roast Wild Duck.— Tart Jelly. 

Roast Turkey. — Cranberry Sauce, Apple, Currant 
and Grape Jelly, All Vegetables. 

Roast Goose. — Same as Roast Pork. 

Boiled Beef. — Root Vegetables and Greens. 

Boiled Fowl.— Cream Sauce, Sweet Potatoes, Onions, 
Delicate Vegetables. 



MEATS 39 

Canned Beef, Pork or Chicken. — Pack jars with solid 
meat. To every pint add one teaspoon of salt. Screw 
on lids, place in boiler in cold water on racks and boil 
four hours. 

Sugar Cure for Meat. — One pint salt, two table- 
spoons of black pepper, three tablespoons of brown 
sugar, one tablespoon of red pepper. This amount is 
for one large joint of meat. Rub this mixture into 
meat. 

Meats: Baked, Roasted and Boiled 

Bacon. — Per pound, fried, 15 minutes. 

Beef. — Sirloin or Rib, rare, 5 pound roast: 1 hour, 
5 minutes. Sirloin or Rib, fried, 5 pound roast: 1 
hour, 40 minutes. Rump, rare, 10 pound roast: 1 
hour, 35 minutes. Underdone, per pound: 9 to 10 
minutes. Fillet of beef : 20 to 40 minutes. Simmered, 
per pound, boiled : 20 to 30 minutes. 

Chicken. — 3 to 4 pounds : 1% to 2 hours. 

Corn Beef. — Per pound, boiled: 25 to 30 minutes. 

Duck.— Domestic : 1 to 11/2 hours. Wild: 20 to 30 
minutes. 

Fish. — Thick, 3 to 4 pounds: 45 to 60 minutes. 

Goose. — 8 pounds : 3 hours. 

Grouse, Pigeons and Other Large Birds. — 30 minutes. 

Lamb Leg. — Well done : IV2 to 2 hours. 

Liver. — Baked or braised : 1 hour to I14 hours. 

Small Birds. — 10 to 15 minutes. 

Smoked Tongue. — 4 hours. 

Pork. — Spareribs, per pound: 15 to 20 minutes. 
Loin or shoulder, per pound : 20 minutes. 

Mutton. — Leg, per pound: 20 minutes. Stuffed 
shoulder : 10 minutes. 

Veal. — Leg, well done, per pound : 20 minutes. Loin 
of, plain, per pound: 15 to 18 minutes. 

Ham. — 12 to 14 pounds boiled : 4 to 5 hours. Piece 
boiled in cider or water: 15 to 20 minutes. 



40 MEATS 

Time for Broiling 

Chicken. — 20 to 30 minutes. 

Fish. — Small and thin : 5 to 8 minutes. Thick : 15 
to 20 minutes. 

Steak. — 1 inch thick: 4 to 6 minutes. 2 inches 
thick : 8 to 15 minutes. 

Time for Boiling 

Eggs. — Soft cooked, not boiling water : 4 to 6 
minutes. Hard cooked, not boiling water : 35 to 45 
minutes. 

American Chop Suey. — Two cups boiled spaghetti, 
14 lb. Hamburg steak, one medium sized onion, two 
cups strained tomatoes. 

Boil spaghetti in salt water until tender, then drain 
and rinse well in cold water. Fry Hamburg steak 
nice and brown in lard or fryings, and fry the onion 
with it. Stew the tomatoes. When meat and onions 
are fried nicely add the spaghetti and tomatoes, pep- 
per and salt, and a dash of cayenne pepper, and serve. 
This will serve five people. 

Malinda Kriegsman. 

Beef Roast. — Season and dredge with flour, and let 
fry nice and brown on both sides. Then add water 
and baste and turn until brown and tender. 

Beef Rolled. — Select a portion of flank of beef, make 
a good dressing the same as for turkey, spread smooth- 
ly over the beef, and roll, tying it tightly with a string ; 
put in a cloth, or bag, and boil in salted water until the 
beef is thoroughly done. When cold remove the string, 
and cut in thin slices. Very nice for luncheon or tea. 

Mrs. J. P. Williams. 

Beef Loaf. — 3 lbs. beef, chopped; 3 eggs, beaten 
well; 6 crackers, rolled fine; 1 tablespoon of salt, 1 
teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon allspice. 1 tablespoon 
melted butter : make into a loaf, put in a covered bak- 
ing pan with small pieces of butter on top of loaf ; add 
a little water, and bake II/4 hours. 

Mrs. a. L. Koeneke. 



MEATS 41 

Baked Hash. — Chop rather coarsely any kind of 
cold meat; butter your baking dish well, put your 
chopped meat in ; season well ; then put mashed po- 
tatoes on top, fill about 2/3 with part milk and water. 
Use about the same amount meat as potatoes. Let 
bake in a moderate oven. An onion greatly improves 
this dish. Mrs. Ben J. Epkens. 

Croquettes. — Croquettes are simply minced meat 
mixed with a thick sauce, then rolled into shape and 
fried. Any kind of cooked meat, fish, shell fish, hard 
boiled eggs and some kinds of vegetables may be 
served as croquettes. Croquettes may be plain, using, 
one kind of meat alone or made richer by combining 
with it sweetbreads, brains, mushrooms and truffles. 
Whatever meat mixture is used, the rules for sauce, 
molding and frying are the same. The meat should 
be chopped fine, they should be very soft and creamy 
inside ; mold in any form desired and fried a light 
golden color. Mrs. W. P. Herget. 

Chicken Croquettes. — Two cups of finely chopped 
cooked chicken, 2 tablespoons chopped parsley, 1 cup 
milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons flour, season- 
ings to taste. Scald the milk, rub butter and flour 
together until smooth, add to scalded milk and stir 
until it thickens. Mix parsley, seasonings with meat, 
add to thickened milk, mix thoroughly. Cool, form 
into cone shape croquettes, cover with egg and bread 
crumbs and fry in hot lard. Serve with cream sauce 
and a sprig of parsley, if desired. 

Peoria, 111. Tina Meints. 

Dried Beef Creamed. — Put two tablespoons of but- 
ter in a pan and add one-half pound chipped beef cut 
in small pieces. To this add one tablespoon of flour, 
mix well in butter, then add one cup milk and let 
boil. 

Dried Beef with Eggs. — Pour hot water over beef; 
boil up once. Pour water off and add butter size of an 
egg for % lb. beef. Add pepper; fry a few minutes; 



42 MEATS 

break a few eggs over it, and stir until done. Add a 
little cream, if desired, and serve hot. 

Mrs. Irving M. Weimer. 

Fricadella. — A piece of butter the size of a walnut; 
add 2 eggs, a little pepper and salt, 1 large onion, 1 
nutmeg, boiled potatoes, chopped pork ; if necessary, a 
little crackers : make into balls, roll in cracker crumbs, 
and fry. Cream butter, salt, and pepper; add eggs to 
that, and ground onion (if liked), not quite as many 
boiled potatoes as meat. Very seldom use cracker- 
crumbs in it, but roll in cracker-crumbs, and fry. Use 
pork not boiled. 

Miss Bella Valk. 

Green Pepper Hash. — Put 1 pound of soup meat 
through a meat grinder, with 1 large, green pepper. 
Season with salt and a good piece of butter. Put all 
in a skillet with y^. cup water, and let simmer i^ hour. 

Peoria, 111. Edna A. Thomas. 

Green Peppers Filled with Meat.— Cut off the tops 
and remove seeds from six sweet green peppers, and 
soak over night in salt water. In the morning, about 
two hours before serving, drain and fill with the fol- 
lowing: 1/2 pound beef (ground), I/2 pound pork 
(ground), % cup uncooked rice (washed), salt and 
pepper to taste. Place stuffed peppers upright in deep 
pan that will just hold the number filled and cover 
with plenty of strained tomato juice. Let cook slowly 
until tender (about two hours) and add more juice 
as needed. Serve with juice they are cooked in which 
becomes thickened. 

Mrs. George Eldredge. 

Ham Baked. — Take small ham and boil in plenty 
of water 1 hour; then remove the skin and put into 
pan and pour over 1 pint vinegar; put on top 1 large 
teacup brown sugar, 2 tablespoons Worcestershire 
sauce, and bake in oven 1 hour, using the sauce in 
pan for gravy. 

Mrs. p. H. Welty. 



MEATS 43 

Ham Baked in a Crust. — Make a dough as stiff as 
coffee-cake dough. Roll out thin and cover the ham 
entirely with it. Bake in a moderate oven three or 
four hours, according to the size of ham. When done, 
remove the crust, and it will be found that the ham 
is much sweeter and nicer than boiled in the usual way. 

Malinda Kriegsman. 

Ham Baked in Milk. — Select a slice of ham at least 
an inch thick; put in a covered baking dish, and 
completely cover the ham with milk. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven about 3 hours. The success of this dish is in 
the long, slow cooking. If the milk is absorbed, more 
may be added from time to time. When done, pour 
off the remaining milk which is now too salty to use, 
and make a cream sauce of 1 tablespoon butter, 1 of 
flour, and 1 cup of milk, and pour over the ham. 

Mrs. Phil. H. Sipfle. 

Ham and Eg'g'S. — Melt a good tablespoon of butter 
and moisten with it 1^2 cups of stale bread-crumbs; 
put a layer of crumbs in a small baking dish, then add 
a layer of minced ham and sliced eggs and cream saace, 
alternately — the last layer should be crumbs. Bake 
in a moderate oven 20 minutes. 

Louise Velde. 

Ham Luncheon Dish. — Cold boiled ham, chopped; 
cold boiled potatoes, chopped ; butter pudding dish, 
put in layer of potatoes, add pepper and paprika, layer 
of ham ; alternate until dish is full — potatoes on top. 
Add bits of butter. Sweet milk to almost cover. 
Cover, and bake 20 or 30 minutes. 

Chicago, 111. Mrs. H. L. Phillips. 

Ham Patties. — 1 pint of cooked ham, chopped fine; 
mix with 2 parts of bread crumbs, wet with milk; a 
generous lump of butter : put the batter in gem pans ; 
break 1 egg over each. Sprinkle the top thickly with 
cracker crumbs. Bake until brown. 

Mrs. H. Roos. 



44 MEATS 

Ham Pudding. — Boil potatoes sufficient for a meal; 
mash (without seasoning'), and allow to cool. 50 cents 
of boiled ham, ground fine ; 5 medium-sized onions, 
ground fine. Bake in earthen or granite dish. Place 
layers of potatoes, onions, ham, until dish is filled. 
Make opening in top of pudding, then pour beaten 
eggs over top and allow to run into opening. Bake 
11/2 hours. Mrs. Geo. A. Luick. 

Ham Spiced Boiled. — Select a medium-sized ham; 
take 1/2 of same, after cleaning plunge into a kettle 
of boiling water ; add 2 onions, 12 cloves, 2 bay leaves, 
12 pepper corns, 10 allspice berries; let simmer for 
about 3 hours. If it be cold for slicing, you can add to 
its tender juiciness by allowing it to stand in the liquor 
until cold. Mrs. Chas. Duisdieker. 

Ham, Virginia Boiled. — Take a medium-sized ham, 
scrape and wash well, place on the range in cold water, 
to cover. Add 1 cupful of vinegar, % cupful of 
molasses. Let simmer 5 hours. When it has cooked 
slowly for 2 hours, drop in an even tablespoonful of 
sage, 1 dozen cloves. Let cool over night in the water 
in which it boiled, then skim and bake for an hour in 
a moderate oven, basting often with some tart wine. 
Just before taking from the oven, sprinkle with brown 
sugar. Mrs. Wm. A. Potts. 

Head Cheese. — Take 1 medium-sized pig's head, 
have it split so that bones containing teeth can be re- 
moved. Eemove eyes, and carefully clean all the parts. 
Take 6 hearts, 2 lbs. lean sausage meat, and 4 pig's feet. 
Boil all very tender; cut the meat in small pieces and 
grind the hearts with as much onion as liked. Mix all 
together ; season with salt and pepper to taste ; put in 
a kettle and add 2 quarts of liquor meat Avas boiled in. 
Let come to a thorough boil, then pour into moulds to 
cool. Cut in slices, and eat cold. Will keep a long 
time by pouring hot lard over the top before it cools. 

Quincy, III. Mrs. T. Heath. 

Hamburger Steak.— 1 lb. lean beef, 2 oz. suet, 1 
medium-sized onion; season with salt and pepper. 



MEATS 45 

Form in flat balls and fry brown on both sides about 5 
minutes. Add a little water, and thicken with flour for 
gravy to pour over the meat. Mrs. Will White. 

Jamboli. — 1 cup rice, I/2 lb. bacon, 1 cup chopped 
onion, 1 tablespoon flour, 2/3 can tomatoes, cut up ; i/^ 
teaspoon beef extract, i^ teaspoon paprika, V2 teaspoon 
celery seed. Boil rice in 1 quart boiling, salted water 
about % hour. Cut bacon slices in thirds, fry, take 
from fat, add chopped onions to fat and fry till tender ; 
then stir in flour, add tomatoes, bacon, beef extract, 
celery seed, and pepper. Let cook 5 or 10 minutes; 
add rice, cook slowly for a few minutes longer, and 
serve. Mrs. A. W. Hinners. 

Liver, Fried. — Cut liver in thin slices and place in 
cold water to draw out the blood. Take out and wash 
in clear Avater then dry on cloth and roll in corn-meal 
seasoned with salt. Fry in deep hot bacon drippings, 
cover and let fry slowly about twenty minutes, then 
remove cover and allow to fry quickly until a delicate 
brown. A few thin slices of bacon may be added if 
desired. Mrs. L. J. Albertsen. 

Meat Balls. — 1 lb. ground pork, 3 potatoes (boiled 
and mashed) ; 4 crackers (rolled) ; 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 
ground onion. Mix all well together. Season with salt 
and pepper, and add spices to suit taste. Potatoes must 
be warm when mixed. Form into small patties, and 
fry in rather deep lard. Mrs. Mary Saal. 

Meat Cakes. — Two cups of any-left-over cooked 
meats chopped, 3 tablespoons bread crumbs, 1 egg, 2 
tablespoons of gravy or butter, 1 small onion chopped, 
salt and pepper to taste. Chop meat and onion, beat 
the egg without separating, melt butter or gravy, mix 
all together. Make into flat cakes and fry in butter 
or drippings, 

Peoria, 111. Miss Tena Meints. ■ 

Meat Croquettes. — Put into a sauce pan a piece of 
butter the size of an egg and 1 tablespoon of flour; 2 
eggs, and % cup of cream or milk. Mix till smooth; 
then boil till the flour is cooked, taking care not to let 



46 MEATS 

it turn dark ; if too thick, add a little more cream. Mix 
this, while warm, with chicken, veal, or any lean meat, 
and shape into croquettes. Put them on the ice to 
harden. Roll in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in lard 
or crisco. Serve on platter with hot French peas. 

Ella H. Velde. 

Meat Croquettes. — 2 cups meat, 1 tablespoon butter, 
2 tablespoons flour, 1 cup of milk or cream, 1 egg, 
1 teaspoon salt, 1/2 teaspoon pepper, dash of cayenne, 
dash of nutmeg. Put the cream or milk in a double 
boiler, scald it, rub the butter and flour together, take 
this paste on a spoon and stir in the scalding milk 
until it is dissolved from the spoon and the sauce has 
become thickened and consistent. Add the seasoning 
then remove from fire and stir in a beaten egg. Place 
it again on the fire for a minute to cook the egg. Do 
not let it boil, and add two cups of finely minced meat. 
Pour out on a platter and set it away for two or more 
hours, it will then be stiff and easily molded. Mold 
and fry. Mrs. W. P. Herget. 

Meat Souffle. — 4 tablespoons flour, 2 tablespoons 
butter, 1 cup milk, 1 cup meat, chopped fine ; I/4 tea- 
spoon salt, little pepper, 1 teaspoon onion juice, 2 eggs ; 
make sa.uce of flour, butter, and milk; stir in meat and 
season. When hot, add the well-beaten yolks ; when 
cool fold in beaten whites. Bake in buttered dish ; set 
in hot water about 35 minutes. 

San Jose, 111. Mrs. Fannie G. Brauer. 

Mock Duck. — Take a round of beef steak, about 2 
inches thick ; salt and pepper either side, prepare bread 
or crackers with oysters; lay the stuffing on the meat 
and sew up. Roast about 1 hour. 

Mrs. Minnie Alfs. 

Mock Duck. — Spread flank steak, seasoned with 
salt, with the following stuffing : 1 cup soft bread 
crumbs, 2 tablespoons each of parsley and celery, cut 
fine ; I/2 teaspoon onion juice, V2 teaspoon salt, dash red 
pepper, 2 tablespoons melted butter ; roll and skewer, 
or tie with string. Bake a long time with the temper- 



MEATS ^ 47 

ature of the oven hot at first. Baste occasionally with 
hot water. When done, remove from the pan. Make 
a gravy of the juice left, to which add tomato juice. 
Serve with the meat. Olive A. Balcke. 

Pork Loaf. — 1 lb. ground round steak ; 1 lb. ground 
pork (from shoulder) ; 1 cup bread-crumbs — fill same 
with milk. Mix all together, and season with salt and 
pepper. Form into loaf, sprinkle top with flour and 
lumps of butter; place in roaster with about 2 inches 
of water, and baste same as a roast. 

Mrs. Mary Saal. 

Roast with Dumplings. — Cover meat with flour, add 
salt, pepper, and onion; roast in roasting pan. For 
dumplings, take 1 quart flour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, butter size of egg, salt, make dough with 
milk : drop from spoon into gravy, after meat is taken 
out, cover well, and boil 15 minutes. 

Mrs. Philip Reinhard, Sr. 

Round Steak, Rolled. — Take a nice steak, pound 
well ; make a rich dressing of bread, eggs, onions, but- 
ter, sage, salt, and pepper. Place on steak ; roll and tie. 
Bake in moderate oven 1 hour. 

Mrs. L. D. Brooks. 

Scrapple. — 1 lb. fresh pork, 1 lb. round steak; put 
through food chopper, season to taste ; boil until done, 
and have enough water left to take up corn meal to 
make a mush consistency. Mould in pans and let 
stand until cold ; slice thin, and fry in hot lard a nice 
brown. 

Mrs. G. N. Weber. 

Spare Ribs with Corn Dressing. — Take dry bread 
(about % of a loaf) and soak in cold water. Squeeze 
out of water, add salt and pepper to taste, two eggs, 
piece of butter melted and one can of corn. Put in 
shallow pan and cover with spare ribs, well seasoned. 
Baked from % to 1 hour. 

Mrs. Urban J. Albertsen. 

Smothered Steak. — Cut beef in pieces, ready for 
serving ; fry the fat from several pieces of bacon in an 



48 MEATS 

iron pot. Drop pieces of beef in, 1 at a time ; sear on 
both sides. Add a small amount of water ; turn meat 
often. 1 hour before serving add 2 sliced onions, pep- 
per, and salt. Smother slowly for 3 hours. When 
done, remove meat to a deep dish; thicken gravy, 
pour over meat. Mrs. Chas. Duisdieker. 

Spanish Roast. — 2 lbs. round steak in a thick slice; 
fry 1 onion in brown grease, then put steak in this until 
brown on both sides; put in a baking dish and pour 
the grease over it, and add 1/2 can of tomatoes ; salt and 
pepper. Bake 1^ hours in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. F. S. McHarg. 

Spanish Steak. — 1 large, thick flank steak; 1 can 
tomatoes, 4 or 5 onions, 4 green peppers, 1 tablespoon 
sugar, teaspoon salt, butter size of an egg; fry steak 
on top of stove on both sides, nice and brown; put in 
baking pan, pour over other ingredients, and bake 
1 hour. Mrs. Ed. Reuling. 

Stuffed Steak. — 1 large flank steak, 1 pint of bread 
stuffing, 1 small onion, 2 cups stock, 1 cup strained 
tomatoes ; salt, pepper, and flour. Pound and score the 
steak, cover with the stuffing, and roll up ; tie securely, 
and place in a braising pan. Place in a hot oven, un- 
covered, and brown. Add the stock, and cook until 
tender, basting often. When tender, add the strained 
tomatoes and onion, chopped fine. Cook 10 minutes 
longer. Remove from the pan to a hot platter, thicken 
the sauce, if necessary, with a little flour and water 
mixed together. Strain over the steak, and serve with 
boiled rice, 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. Alma Magaret Traeger. 

Sweetbreads. — 2 sweetbreads, 2 heaping tablespoons 
butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 6 mushrooms, 1 teaspoon 
lemon juice, 1 small onion, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 tea- 
spoon pepper and salt, 1 teaspoon red pepper, 2 cup- 
fuls water. Soak the sweetbreads in salted water for 
a few hours. Wash well, and put them in a sauce 
pan, covered with water, to boil for 5 minutes ; then 
put them in cold water for a few minutes. Trim and 



MEATS 49 

remove skin, gristle, and fat, and cut each "up in 2 or 3 
pieces. Butter a small baking tin; place the sweet- 
breads on it, and put a small piece of butter on top 
of each. Put them in the oven to roast for 20 minutes. 
Put into a sauce pan the sugar and butter, and allow 
each to get brown ; then add the flour, and fry it until 
it begins to look yellow; then add the onion, chopped, 
and fry it pretty brown ; add the salt and pepper, a 
dust of red pepper, the nutmeg, and the lemon juice. 
Strain it through a fine strainer and return it to the 
pan. Add the sweetbreads and the mushrooms, and 
cook gently for % hour. Serve hot with croutons of 
bread or pieces of pastry round. 

Mrs. Habbe Velde. 

Sweetbreads. — Take sweetbreads and boil until 
tender. Then pour off the water and let cold water 
run over them to whiten them. Cut in pieces about 
the size of oysters, and season with salt and pepper. 
Dredge with flour, dip in lightly-bea.ten egg and then 
in cracker-crumbs, and fry in deep fat until brown. 

Mrs. H. Goldsmith. 

Swiss Steak. — 1 round steak % in. thick; pound 
with edge of a saucer as much flour on both sides of 
steak as possible, about 1 cup. Fry brown on both 
sides; season with salt and pepper and 1 onion. Let 
simmer % hour on back of stove. 

Miss Malinda Kriegsman. 

Tenderloins Frenched. — Cut the tenderloin in pieces 
about 2 inches long ; set on end on meat board, and, 
with the side of hatchet, or meat-ax, give each one 
hard blow to flatten into nice, round cakes. Salt and 
pepper, dip in beaten egg, roll in cracker-crumbs, and 
fry a nice brown in hot lard and butter. 

Quincy, 111. Mrs. Wm. Balcke. 

Tenderloins, Stuffed. — 4 large pork tenderloins, 1 
cupful cracker or bread-crumbs, ^^ cupful boiling 
w^ater, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon salt, pepper, 
celery salt, or poultry seasoning, to taste. Wipe 
tenderloins clean with a damp cloth. With a sharp 
knife make a deep pocket lengthwise in each tender- 



50 MEATS 

loin, laying the tenderloin fiat on the table and making 
the incisions along the sides. Melt the butter in the 
water and add beef extract ; add seasonings to crumbs, 
pour liquid over them, and mix thoroughly. Now 
fill each pocket in the tenderloin with this stuffing, 
sew up pockets with coarse thread and needle, place 
tenderloins in a baking pan, and bake in a brisk oven 
45 minutes, or till tender, basting frequently with a 
brown sauce made as follows: 2 tablespoons butter, 1 
small onion, sliced; 2 tablespoons flour, IV2 cups boiling 
water, 1 teaspoon beef extract, y2 teaspoon salt, i/4 
teaspoon pepper, I/2 of a bay leaf. Cook onion in but- 
ter 5 minutes; remove onion, add flour, and stir until 
well-browned. Dissolve beef extract in the water and 
add to butter and flour. Add seasonings, keep hot, 
and baste tenderloins with it. When tenderloins are 
done, serve on a hot platter, and pour any remaining 
sauce around them. Mrs. Irving Weimer. 

Tongue Boiled with Tomatoes. — Boil tongue until 
it can be skinned, put back in kettle and add 1 can of 
tomatoes, salt, red pepper, and onions. Boil until the 
tomatoes are thick. The sauce will look better if the 
tomatoes are strained before they are put into the 
kettle. 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. F. L. Mahle. 

Veal Birds. — 2 lbs. of veal steak cut in small pieces, 
three inches square. Make a dressing of bread-crumbs, 
as for fowl, and sandwich between two pieces, holding 
them together with tooth-picks. Roll in flour, and put 
in pan in which a tablespoon each of butter and lard 
have been browned. Add water and bake in covered 
roaster 1 hour. When done, thicken the gravy and 
serve with the birds. Mrs. C. E. Schneider. 

Veal Breast with Dressing. — Dressing : Cut an 
onion fine and fry in about a teaspoonful of lard or 
butter ; add y2 cup of raisins, enough soaked stale bread 
to fill the pocket; pepper ard salt to taste; i^ tea- 
spoonful of sugar: mix and heat thoroughly. Before 
putting in pocket, add 1 well-beaten egg. Plaee in 
oven and roast. Mrs. C. H. Jacobs. 



MEATS 51 

Veal Chops Braized. — Slice 3 large onions, also 3 car- 
rots. Put a thin layer of these vegetables in the bot- 
tom of a covered baking dish ; next, add a layer of 
seasoned chops, then the vegetables, and so on, alter- 
nately; add enough hot water to cover. Bake in a 
moderate oven 3 hours ; when done, remove the meat to 
a platter, stir some flour into the vegetables, cook for 
a minute, and pour this sauce over the meat. 

Mrs. Phil. H. Sipfle. 

Veal Cutlets.— (As prepared for Y. M. B. C. Ban- 
quet, 1912.)— Have butcher "French" the cutlets. 
Salt, pepper, and flour the same ; fry a nice brown in 
lard, then place in roasting pan and put dots of butter 
on each piece ; pile up, add a very little water, cover 
tightly and allow to steam in a slow oven, or oven with 
door open, for an hour or 2, till very tender, being 
careful that they do not burn. 

Mrs. Ulrich York. 

Veal Cooked in Milk. — 3 steaks, cut thick, from 
round will serve 8 people. Cut each steak in pieces 
just ready for serving ; salt and pepper to taste ; dip in 
egg and then cracker-crumbs, and let dry couple of 
hours; then fry a light brown on both sides in plenty 
of hot fat with some butter. After nicely browned, 
cover completely with sweet milk and tight lid ; then 
set in slow oven for % of an hour. This is very good. 

Belle Potts. 

Veal Ham Smothered, German Style. — Take a good 
tablespoonful of chopped celery or parsley, 1 or 2 small 
onions, 4 whole peppers, 3 whole allspice ; let cook 

1 hour in 1 pint of water; salt to taste, and strain. 
Salt, flour, and brown meat in a little butter and lard, 
then pour above sauce over, cover, and allow to cook 

2 hours or more, till tender. Use about 21/2 lbs. veal 
for this amount of sauce. Let cook slowly on stove, or 
can be placed with sauce in roasting pan and finished 
in oven. Add water as necessary. When done, re- 
move meat from sauce, thicken with browned butter 



52 MEATS 

and flour, and, if liked, add juice of y^ lemon or a little 
vinegar. Place meat on platter and cut to suit ; pour 
sauce over meat, or serve separately. Rabbit is very- 
nice prepared in this way, and Avhen ready to serve, 
add about I/2 cup cream to gravy. Lamb is also good 
prepared as above. ^^^ -y^ L_ g 

Veal and Pork Jellied. — Two veal shanks, 1 pork 
shank, boil (with a few bay leaves) until meat falls 
off of bone and add 1 teaspoon of salt. Boil the juice 
down to just enough to cover the meat. When cold, 
skim off grease, take meat from bones and cut with 
scissors in small pieces ; take out bay leaves, re-heat 
the juice and add one tablespoonful of vinegar, pour 
over the meat and when cold will be nice to slice. 

Malinda Kriegsman. 

Veal Kidney Stew. — Take kidneys, trim off all fat, 
and remove the skin. Cut up in small pieces, add 1 
onion, pepper and salt to taste ; boil 1 hour. Just be- 
fore serving, remove onion, thicken gravy, and serve 
in the gravy. ^^^ ^^^ Duisdieker. 

Veal Loaf. — 3 lbs. veal, 1 lb. lean pork, a small slice 
of bacon — all ground ; add 2 well-beaten eggs and i/^ 
cup of sweet milk, 6 crackers, rolled fine ; season to 
taste. Mix well, and put in a buttered pan, and put 
3 or 4 small lumps of butter and a little water on it; 
bake 1 hour in a moderate oven. 

Miss Mary. Stoffregen. 

Veal Stuffed (Spanish). — Take a piece of very lean, 
solid veal. With a sharp knife make several large cuts 
in it, and in these cuts stuff' thin pieces of raw ham. 
Put it in a kettle, together with an onion, bay leaf, a 
pepper, several cloves and salt. Cover with water and 
let boil until done, but still solid, gradually letting the 
water boil away. To be eaten hot or sliced cold. 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. Alma Magaret Traeger. 



MEATS 53 

Sour-Braten for 8 Persons. — 5 lbs. meat; soak in 
vinegar 2 daj's. Take out and put in a pot with a nice 
piece of butter, a few slices of bacon, an onion, sliced ; 
pepper, paprika, a few cloves, and 3 bay leaves. Fry 
the meat nice and brown on both sides. Pour vinegar 
over and stew slowly for 2 hours. 

Gravy. — 2 slices of rye bread and 2 tablespoonfuls 
of flour, browned in the oven. Roll bread with rolling 
pin until fine ; Yo cup of granulated sugar, browned to 
a syrup. Mix bread crumbs, flour, and sugar with a 
little of the vinegar to a paste, add to the rest of vin- 
egar, and boil. Strain gravy before thickening. 

Mrs. Otto Koch. 

Sour Pot Roast. — 3 or 4 lbs. of lean rump beef; 
cover with equal parts of vinegar and water, add I/2 
lemon, sliced ; 3 bay leaves, a few cloves, a pepper corn, 
and an onion, if liked. Let stand 3 days. Remove meat 
from vinegar, and brown in equal parts of lard and but- 
ter. Now pour the mixture over the meat again, add 
salt to taste, and boil until tender, adding more water, 
if necessary. When done, thicken gravy and serve. 

Mrs. Nolte. 

Veal Tongues. — Take 6 veal tongues and cook in 
salt water until tender. When done, peel, and slice the 
long way. Then make a gravy of a good-size of butter 
or lard. Take a cup of vinegar and soak 3 or 4 ginger 
snaps to thicken the gravy ; a few bay leaves, i/^ cup of 
raisins, and 2 sliced onions. You can use a little spice 
if you like. Strain the broth the tongues were cooked 
in, and add to the ginger snaps, raisins, and onions, and 
put in the sliced tongue. Let all come to a boil, and 
serve. 

Mrs. H. Goldsmith. 



CASSEROLE DISHES 

Au Gratin Potatoes. — Use cold, boiled or raw po- 
tatoes. Butter baking dish. Put in layers, potatoes, 
grated cheese, salt, pepper, paprika, and bits of butter. 
Cover with milk and bake 1 hour. 

Mrs. Wm. Schurman. 

Au Gratin Potatoes. — 6 cold, boiled potatoes, chop- 
ped very fine. Put into sauce pan with enough crea.m 
to cover. Let cook for 5 minutes; season with salt, 
paprika, and a little grated nutmeg, then put in a 
small earthen dish, cover with parmesan cheese ; then 
put into oven to brown. Serve from dish, very hot. 

Au Gratin 'Brian. — Same as above; add chopped 
red and green peppers, and chopped cooked bacon. 
Bake as above. Charles Sallhop, 

4639 Fulton St., Chicago, 111. Chef Stillson's Restaurant. 

Baked Marcaroni and Cheese. — 1/2 box macaroni, 2 
cups white sauce, made as follows : 1% cups milk, 3 
tablespoons flour, butter size of an egg, 1 cup grated 
cheese. Method : Add macaroni to 2 quarts of boiling 
salt water, and boil till tender. Drain in strainer 
and rinse with cold water. Put the macaroni in but- 
tered baking dish, and pour over it the white sauce. 
Cover on top with buttered bread crumbs. A layer of 
sliced cheese may be added before putting on crumbs. 
To make the sauce, dissolve the flour in milk, add but- 
ter and cheese, boil until thick like a custard. 

Mrs. Henry Ailts. 

Baked Bread Tomatoes. — Place in a baking pan 6 
firm, peeled tomatoes, with the centers taken out and a 
lump of butter, pepper, and salt placed in each tomato. 
Put in water in the pan, and bake 1/2 hour. When 
baked, add a little milk and flour thickening, and a 
little parsley. Serve piping hot. 

Peoria, 111. Edna A. Thomas. 

54 



CASSEROLE DISHES 55 

Baked Cauliflower with Cheese Sauce. — Boil a cauli- 
flower in salted water until tender; cut off the stem, 
so that the cauliflower will stand upright, and place 
it in a buttered dish suitable for the table. Make a 
cream sauce of 1 tablespoon of flour, and 1 cup of 
scalding milk. Season with salt and pepper, and add 
^ cup of grated cheese. Stir in a piece of butter, 
then pour it over the cauliflower. Sprinkle with grated 
cheese, and bake in quick oven 15 minutes. 

Mrs. E. F. Unland. 

Baked Bacon and Cabbage. — Cut 1 small head of 
cabbage in quarters and boil in salt water till tender, 
drain. Make a cream sauce and season to taste. Place 
half of cabbage in buttered baking dish, cover with 
part of cream sauce then place strips of bacon (which 
have previously been parboiled) on top, put on re- 
maining cabbage and over all pour the rest of the 
cream sauce. Bake in medium oven until well 
browned. Mrs. Walter F. Fluegel. 

Cauliflower an Gratin. — Prepare cauliflower, and boil 
until tender. Drain, and set aside. Make a cream 
dressing by boiling 1 pint of milk and thicken with a 
flour and water mixture. When done, season with 
salt and pepper, and add a lump of butter. Place a 
layer of cauliflower in bottom of casserole, or baking 
dish, cover with some of the dressing, then sprinkle 
with sliced or grated cheese, salt and pepper, and 
some butter. Continue these laj^ers until the dish is 
full, and on top spread cracker-crumbs and butter. 
Cover, and bake in hot oven till crumbs are brown. 
Serve hot from casserole on table. 

Mrs. p. H. Massey. 

Cheese Scallop. — 1 cup crumbs, I/4 lb. cheese, grated ; 
2 tablespoons butter, IV2 cups milk, hot ; 2 eggs, y^ 
teaspoon salt, % teaspoon paprika. Melt butter, stir 
in crumbs, and mix thoroughly with grated cheese. 
Beat eggs together, add slowly the hot milk, and pour 
the mixture on the crumbs and cheese; season and 



56 CASSEROLE DISHES 

pour into buttered moulds. Set in hot water in moder- 
ate oven till set like a custard. 

Miss Helen M. Day, 
Peoria, 111. Domestic Science, Bradley Institute. 

Cheese Souffle. — In a pudding pan make a sauce 
with 1 tablespoon of butter, 1 heaping tablespoon flour, 
and 1 cup of milk, cooked till thick. Add to this sauce 
1 cup grated cream cheese, stirring till cheese dissolves 
and the sauce becomes very smooth. Then add the 
yolks of 4 eggs, beaten lightly. Blend well, and add 
a little salt. Lastly add the whites of 4 eggs, folding 
in carefully. Bake in moderate oven in a pan of 
water to prevent scorching, 20 minutes. Serve hot. 

Lydia Adolph. 

Cheese Souffle. — (For Chafing Dish.) — 2 tablespoons 
butter, 2 tablespoons flour, 1/2 cup milk, 1/0 teaspoon 
salt, dash of paprika, 1 cup cheese, cut in small pieces ; 
3or 4 according to size. Melt butter in chafing dish, 
add flour, and stir until smooth. Add seasoning and 
cheese, and place over hot water and stir until the 
cheese is melted. Then stir in the yolks of the eggs 
well beaten. Remove from heat, and fold in the white 
of egg, beaten stiff. When well combined, smooth the 
top surface. Place over hot water, and cook without 
lifting cover, 25 minutes. Miss Helen M. Day, 

Peoria, 111. Domestic Science, Bradley Institute. 

Delmonico Potatoes. — Arrange alternate layers of 
cold boiled potatoes cut in dice, grated cheese, a small 
pimento, and white sauce. Allow two cupfuls of po- 
tatoes, % cupful of cheese, 1^/4 cupfuls of sauce. Cover 
with buttered crumbs and brown. 

Delmonico Potatoes. — 5 cold, boiled potatoes, 2 table- 
spoons butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 cupful milk, V2 
teaspoon salt, dust pepper, i/o cup grated cheese. Cut 
potatoes in fine cubes, make a white sauce from the 
flour, milk and seasoning ; toss the potatoes lightly into 
the sauce, turn into a baking dish, sprinkle with the 
grated cheese, and bake till light brown. 

Mrs. D. F. Velde. 



CASSEROLE DISHES 57 

Escalloped Corn. — 1 can corn, or 1 dozen ears: 2 
eggs, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon salt, a little pepper. 
Separate eggs, beat yolks, add to corn ; mix : add salt, 
pepper and milk. Fold in whites, beaten stiff. Pour 
into greased baking dish, sprinkle with buttered 
crumbs, and bake 1 hour for fresh corn, and 30 minutes 
for canned corn, Ruth Balcke. 

Escalloped Corn. — In a shallow baking-dish put 1/2 
can corn ; season with salt, pepper, and bits of butter, 
and cover with rolled crackers, and moisten with milk 
and a liberal amount of butter. Bake i/o hour. 

Mrs. H. J. Rust. 

Escalloped Com and Potatoes. — Place alternate lay- 
ers of thinly sliced raw potatoes and corn in a well 
greased baking dish. Sprinkle each layer with salt, 
pepper and a little flour, dot with small pieces of 
butter. Place a layer of cracker crumbs on top and 
pour over all enough milk to cover. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven about forty-tive minutes. 

Mrs. J. G. Nedderman. 

Escalloped Potatoes with Pork Chops. — Slice raw 
potatoes then put a layer of sliced raw potatoes in a 
baking dish. Add salt, pepper and 1 tablespoon flour, 
then another layer of potatoes and salt, pepper and 
flour until the dish is full. Add water to fill the pan 
half way. Place pork chops on top and bake until the 
potatoes are tender, and just enough juice to serve. 
Turn the pork chops so as to become brown on both 
sides. Malinda Kreigsman. 

Escalloped Ham and Potatoes. — Take a slice of nice 
lean ham, about % inch thick, dip in boiling water, 
dry, flour lightly and fry a nice brown on each side. 
Place in baking dish, cover with sweet milk and bake 
in medium oven for % hour, then turn and bake for 
another half hour. The milk will look curdled but it 
really is not. Cut raw potatoes in small squares and 
boil in salt water until tender, drain. Remove ham 
from oven and thicken grav}^^ season, then place ham 



58 CASSEROLE DISHES 

in thickened gravy and cover with the potatoes. Place 
in oven and bake until a light brown. Serve hot. 

Mrs. John Nedderman. 

Escalloped Mushrooms and Peanuts. — Mix 1 cup 
bread-crumbs, 1 cup roasted and chopped peanuts, % 
teaspoon salt, 1/2 teaspoon pepper, 1/2 cup melted but- 
ter ; stir into nuts and crumbs : drain and cut 1 cup 
mushrooms into i^-inch pieces. Make a rich cream 
sauce, and pour over mushrooms. Take a baking-dish, 
put in a layer of crumbs and peanuts, then mushrooms, 
and so on till dish is filled, with crumbs and nuts on 
top ; pour over the remainder of cream sauce, and bake 
in hot oven until brown. Can be baked in individual 
dishes, too. Must be served hot. Fresh mushrooms 
can be used, parboiled very quickly in salt water. 

St. Paul, Minn. Mrs. John L. Hinners. 

Ham au Gratin. — Fill a baking dish with alternate 
layers of stale bread crumbs, and finely chopped ham. 
Cover with two cups of milk mixed with 3 well beaten 
eggs. Salt to taste and bake thirty minutes. 

Amalia Zerwekh. 

Lima Beans and Spaghetti.— 1 can lima beans (Blue 
Ribbon), 1^ box spaghetti, 1 cup grated cream cheese, 
2 pimentos, and milk enough to cover the mixture ; 
paprika, salt, and white pepper ; heaping tablespoon- 
ful butter. Cook spaghetti 20 minutes ; drain and 
wash in cold water. Grease a pan with butter and 
make alternate layers of spaghetti, beans, cheese, and 
pimentos, until you have 3 of each. Add salt, Avhite 
pepper, paprika, and milk, and pour over layers, and 
put butter on top. Bake % of an hour. 

Mrs. Otto Koch. 

Macaroni. — Boil contents of one package in salt 
water until soft. Drain, and keep the water that was 
poured off. Put into a skillet 1 tablespoon of lard, 1 
tablespoon of butter, 1 tablespoon of flour, I/2 onion 
cut fine. Fry until onion and flour are brown. Add 
1/2 bottle of catsup and the water drained off of the 
macaroni. Put macaroni into baking dish adding the 



CASSEROLE DISHES 59 

sauce and I/3 pound of grated cream cheese. Bake % 
hour. 

Mrs. H. Ailts. 

Macaroni and Cheese. — Break into 1-inch lengths % 
package of macaroni; wash, and set on back of stove 
in 1^ quart of hot water ; salt to taste ; stir often to 
prevent sticking. When the cylinders enlarge to twice 
their original size, and look soft and white, put in a 
colander and pour cold water over them (do not omit 
this step ; it is the secret of cooking macaroni success- 
fully). Butter a deep pan that holds 2 quarts, put 
in layer of macaroni, layer of grated cheese, layer of 
bread crumbs ; moisten with milk, salt slightly ; con- 
tinue this till the pan is full. The last layer should 
be cheese and bread crumbs — a fine sprinkling of the 
latter. See that the milk is within an inch of the top 
of the pan ; bake in hot oven for % of an hour. Serve 
in pan, with a neatly — folded napkin around it. 

Mrs. F. Heckman. 

Oak Hill Potatoes. — Cut 4 cold, boiled potatoes and 
6 hard-boiled eggs in i/4-inch slices. Put layer of po- 
tatoes in buttered dish ; sprinkle with salt and pepper ; 
cover with eggs, and repeat ; pour over this 2 cups of 
white or cream sauce ; cover with buttered crumbs, and 
bake. 

Ruth Balcke. 

Spaghetti au Gratin. — Boil package of spaghetti or 
macaroni until tender ; wash in cold, running water. 
Make cream sauce with % gallon hot milk, thickened ; 
add Yi lb. of American cheese, put in macaroni or 
spaghetti; season with salt, pepper, grated lemon, and 
grated nutmeg. Put into pan, and bake until brown. 
May add tomatoes if you wish. Serve on toast. 

4639 Fulton St., Charles Sallhof, 

Chicago, 111. Chef Stillson 's Restaurant. 

Sweet Potatoes au Gratin. — Cut 5 medium-sized cold, 
boiled sweet potatoes in Vs-inch slices. Put 1 layer 
in a buttered dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
3 tablespoonfuls of brown sugar. Dot over with but- 



eO CASSEROLE DISHES 

tered cracker-crumbs, and take until crumbs are brown. 
Peoria, 111. Edna A. Thomas. 

Swiss Eggs. — Spread the bottom of a baking dish 
with 2 ounces of butter. Cover this with thin slices 
of cheese. Place 4 eggs over cheese, taking care that 
yolks are not broken. Season with pepper and salt. 
Pour around the eggs 2 tablespoonfuls of rich cream, 
and cover the top with grated cheese. Bake for 10 
minutes. 

Hepler, Kans. Mes. Louis De Vries. 



/ 



SALADS 

' ' To make a perfect salad, there should be a spendthrift for 
oil, a miser for vinegar, a wise man tor salt, and a madcap to stir 
the ingredients up and mix them well together. ' ' 

—Si)a)iish Proverb. 

SALAD DRESSINGS 

Cabbage Salad Dressing. — 1 cup of cream, 1 egg, 
well-beaten ; 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 ta,blespoon of sugar, 
2 tablespoons of vinegar, 1 teaspoon made mustard. 
Cook these well together, and pour over the chopped 
cabbage the last thing before serving. 

Mrs. Anna Arends. 

Cream Dressing for Cole Slaw. — Mix two tablespoons 
sugar and four tablespoons of vinegar ; pour over cab- 
bage previously cut very fine and seasoned with salt. 
Shortly before serving, add one cup or more of 
wiiipped cream. 

Dressing for Fruit Salad. — 1 teaspoon cornstarch, 1 
egg, % cup sugar, % cup lemon juice, juice of 1 can of 
pineapple. Beat egg, add cornstarch, sugar, lemon 
and pineapple, and boil. 

Lena Jansen. 

French Dressing. — 2 cups sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls 

olive oil, 1 heaping teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful 

paprika, i/4 teaspoonful white pepper. Stir together 

smoothly ; add 4 measuring cups of good vinegar 
(white wine or cider vinegar). Stir well. Shake be- 
fore using. This never spoils. 

Mrs. Otto Koch. 

Fruit Salad Dressing. — To the juice of two lemons 
add two cups of water and bring the mixture to the 
boiling point. Mix i/^ cup of sugar and three table- 
spoons of flour and add to the water and lemon juice. 
Boil and stir until it thickens. Cool and add whipped 
cream. Mix with the cold ingredients of the fruit 

62 



SALADS 63 

salad and serve on crisp lettuce. Orange and pine- 
apple juice may be added. 

Dorothea Abrahams. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. — 2 tablespoons of butter, 2 
tablespoons of flour, 1 cup of milk, 8 teaspoons of 
sugar, 2 teaspoons of salt, 2 teaspoons of dry mustard 
or horseradish mustard, 2 eggs, 1 small cup of vinegar. 
Add the sugar, salt and mustard to the well-beaten 
eggs then add milk and melted butter and last the 
flour to thicken. Boil but a few minutes. 

St. Louis, Mo. Hazel Nahlick. 

Salad Dressing. — Take 2 egg yolks, beating them to- 
gether frothing ; pour over this Yo cup vinegar, 1 cup 
milk or water, 1 t&aspoon mustard, butter size of a 
walnut, 1 tablespoon flour, and sugar to taste. Stir 
constantly until it boils. 

Mrs. R. D. Lackman. 

Salad Dressing. — Mix 2 tablespoons of sugar, 1 level 
teaspoon salt, 1 heaping teaspoon mustard, 4 drops 
essence of red pepper. Add 4 egg yolks beaten well, 
7 tablespoons vinegar, piece of butter. Cook in double 
boiler until thick. 

Mrs. Urban J. Albertsen. 

Salad Dressing. — 3 eggs, beat; 2 tablespoons butter, 
1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon pepper, 1 tablespoon sugar, 

1 teaspoon mustard, 1 small cup vinegar, % cup milk. 
Set over steam, boil about 10 minutes. Hard-boil 2 
eggs for top of salad. 

Denver, Col. Mrs. Hurst Wakefield. 

Thousand Island Dressing, No. 2. — 3 hard boiled 
eggs, 2 sweet pimentos, V2 cup parsley — all chopped 
fine, 3 tablespoons mayonnaise, 2 tablespoons olive oil, 

2 tablespoons vinegar, 1 cup chili sauce, salt and 
paprika to taste, and a little sugar. 

Mrs. Frank Heckman. 

Salad Dressing. — Yolks of 2 eggs and white of one, 
l^ cup of vinegar, fill with cream, a piece of butter, 
sugar to taste. Put all on stove together and stir all 



64 SALADS 

the time until it boils. Add 1 cup whipped cream be- 
fore using. 

Mrs. W. p. Herget. 

Thousand Island Dressing, No. 1. — Yolks of 2 eggs 
beaten lightly, i/^ cup olive oil, 1 teaspoon vinegar — 
heat all together. Then add 1 cup catsup or chili 
sauce, y^ teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons onion and 1 green 
pepper chopped fine. Add whipped cream if desired. 

Mrs. Fkank Heckman. 

Thousand Island Dressing. — Two cups olive oil, 3 
egg yolks, beets, parsley, peppers I/2 green, I/2 bottle 
chili sauce, I/2 cup of vinegar, paprika, 1 teaspoonful 
salt, 3 hard boiled eggs. Beat eggs well, add oil, then 
the other ingredients cutting fine the peppers, eggs, 
parsley and beets. Lena Jansen. 

SALADS 

Apple Salad. — 1 lb. of white grapes, seeded ; 4 apples, 
1 bunch of celery, 1 can pineapple, 1 cup English wal- 
nuts. Cut apples in dice, celery in small pieces; also 
pineapple and nuts : mix well with mayonnaise. 

Mrs. John Rust. 

Best Ever Salad. — Take slices of pineapple (canned 
preferred, as being more tender) ; lay each on a lettuce 
leaf, and in the hole in the center of each slice place 
a ball of Neufchatel cheese, and over this some mayon- 
naise. Mrs. 0. A. Smith. 

Bean Salad. — 1 can red kidney beans, 1 large stalk 
celery, 3 sweet cucumber pickles, 1 large, or 2 small, 
onions; I/2 cup English walnut kernels. Drain all the 
liquor off the beans, cut celery, cucumber pickles, and 
onions in small cubes. Break walnut meats in medium- 
size pieces. Salt and pepper to taste. Mix all to- 
gether, and pour a thick mayonnaise dressing over 
same. 

Kewanee, III. Mrs. May Richford. 

Cabbage and Green Pepper Salad. — 1/2 small cab- 
bage, 1/2 green pepper. Cut the cabbage in long thin 
shreds, and mince the green pepper. Arrange on some 



SALADS 65 

of outside cabbage leaves, choosing white ones. Just 
before serving, pour over the salad a dressing made 
of the following : 1 tablespoonful olive oil, 1 table- 
spoonful vinegar, I/2 teaspoon of salt, I/2 teaspoon of 
sugar 1 pinch of mustard, few drops of onion juice. 
Shake the paprika over the salad generously, as the 
red of the mild pepper and the green of the green 
peppers are very pretty. 

Peoria, 111. Edna A. Thomas. 

Carrot Salad. — Cut the carrots into small cubes ; boil 
in salted water until soft, then drain, and, when cold, 
mix with celery, cut in small pieces. Take as much 
celery as carrots, and mix with a good salad dressing. 

Belleville, 111. IVIrs. E. C. Magaret. 

Cheese Salad. — i/^ pound cream cheese, diced; 4 
hard-boiled eggs, ^ cup of nuts. Coarsely chop the 
eggs and nuts ; serve with mayonnaise on a lettuce leaf. 

San Jose, 111. Lydia Jacobs. 

Chicken Salad. — 1 good-sized chicken, boiled day 
before using, leave stand in broth over night; cut in 
cubes and measure in a cup — adding 1 cup of celery 
cubes for every cup of chicken. Pour over this mix- 
ture 1 teacup of the broth in which the chicken was 
cooked, 1 teacup of vinegar, 1 tablespoonful of olive 
oil, a dash of pepper and salt. Let this mixture stand 
several hours, then drain 1 hour before using. After 
it has drained, add a little mayonnaise dressing, and 
when ready to serve, put a spoonful of mayonnaise on 
top. 

Ridgewood, N. J. Mrs. Fred Kuhlman. 

Cocoanut Salad. — % cocoanut, grated; 2 apples, 
pared, cored, and chopped; 1 cup chopped celery, 2 
tablespoons chopped onions, 1 tablespoon chopped pars- 
ley, 3 chili peppers. Mix and cover with French 
dressing. Chill and serve in lettuce shells. 

Mrs. J. H. Soldwedel. 

Combination Salad. — Pare and cut into small pieces 
% dozen crisp apples ; add a cup of English walnut 
meats, and over all pour a mayonnaise dressing. Serve 



66 SALADS 

on lettuce leaves, with thin wafer soda crackers, which 
previously have been sprinkled with j2:rated cheese and 
paprika, and toasted. 

Dora Albertsen Eompel, 

Combination Salad. — Line a bowl with crisp lettuce ; 
add sliced tomato; cucumber, onion, green peppers, 
radishes, or any other left-over vegetables. Season 
with salt and pepper ; pour over this a French dressing 
made as follows: Pour 3 tablespoons olive oil in a 
cup ; add i^ teaspoon salt and a pinch of black pepper, 
also a scant i/^ teaspoon paprika: stir this till well 
blended. Slowly beat into this mixture 1 tablespoon 
vinegar; pour over the vegtables, and serve with the 
meat course. 

Mrs. Phil. H. Sipfle. 

Cottage Cheese Salad. — Take fresh cottage cheese 
well-seasoned, add chopped walnut meats. Moisten 
with salad dressing and serve on lettuce leaf. 

Amalia Zerwekh. 

Cucumber Salad. — 1 pint cabbage, chopped fine ; 1 
pint of cucumbers, sliced and soaked in water ; 1 onion. 
Serve with dressing made as follows : 3 eggs, % cup 
sugar, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 tablespoon of butter, y^ cup 
of vinegar. Salt to taste. 

Mrs. H. H. Bruns. 

Egg Salad. — Take 8 hard-boiled eggs, chopped (not 
too fine) ; and season with salt and pepper. Make a 
dressing of 1 teaspoonful of prepared mustard, 1 tea- 
spoon melted butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour, a little 
sugar, and i/o teacup of vinegar. Cook all together, 
and pour over the eggs, stirring lightly with a fork. 
Very nice served on a slice of ripe tomato with lettuce 
leaves. 

Mrs. Frank Heckman. 

Egg Salad. — Boil as many eggs as you wish to serve. 
When cold cut in halves, cover with mayonnaise dress- 
ing and serve. 

Malinda Kriegsman. 



SALxVDS 67 

German Potato Salad. — Boil small potatoes with 
jackets on a few houi's before using then peel and slice 
very thin. Take 3 slices of bacon and cut in small 
pieces and fry nice and brown. To these fryings add 
1 level tablespoon sugar, i^ teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon 
flour and % cup vinegar. Pour over potatoes hot, to 
which has been added pepper and salt to taste. Onion, 
celery, cabbage, endive or chives cut fine may be 
added. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs. 

Malinda Kriegsman. 

Governor's Salad. — On a lettuce leaf, or shredded 
lettuce, on a salad plate, arrange, first, small cubes of 
Blue Ribbon pineapple ; then celery, cut in small pieces ; 
then lemon Jello, which has been moulded in a. sheet 
and cut in i/^ inch squares ; seeded halves of white 
grapes, broken pecans or English walnut meats, marsh- 
mallows cut into small cubes ; on top put a good table- 
spoonful of thick mayonnaise dressing, which has been 
mixed with half whipped cream ; and place a small 
teaspoonful of whipped cream with a maraschino 
cherry on it. Serve with wafers. This salad received 
its name from being served at a Governor's Banquet 
given in Springfield in 1910, during a Domestic Science 
Convention. Mrs. A. W. Hinners. 

Herring Salad. — Take 6 large herring, and lay them 
in water over night. Then remove skin and bones, 
chop the herring fine, add 4 potatoes, a few pickles, 4 
hard-boiled eggs, and a few red beets. The following 
sauce is added: 3 tablespoons meat broth, y^, cup of 
good vinegar, 2 tablespoons olive oil, a little salt and 
white pepper, and a little red pepper. Stir this all 
good. When serving, you may garnish with hard- 
boiled eggs, red beets or chopped parsley. 

Mrs. p. Heckman. 

Herring Salad. — Take 12 herrings, wash and clean; 
soak several hours in milk, in order to draw out the 
salt ; remove the skin and bones, and cut in small dice ; 
take the same portion of potatoes, after they have been 
boiled with the jackets, and then peeled and cooled; 
then take pickles, red beets, and sour apples in propor- 
i 



68 SALADS 

tion, veal roast, if one has it; a little boiled ham, 8 to 
12 hard-boiled eggs: take 4 and garnish; cut all of 
these ingredients in dice. If you wish, omit the pota- 
toes and double the amount of meat, which improves 
the salad. A cup of caperberries and 8 to 12 lampreys 
prepared. Garnish as with other salads. 

Sauce. — Take olive oil, wine vinegar, salt, pepper, 
and a little mustard, according to taste. One can make 
the salad the day before. Let stand in a porcelain pan, 
and a few hours before using stir the salad thoroughly. 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. Henry Block. 

Italian Salad. — 6 cold, boiled potatoes ; 1 raw onion, 
4 hard-boiled eggs, 2 beets (cooked), 3 stalks of celery. 
Cut all the vegetables in dice, and serve with mayon- 
naise dressing. 

Mrs. Charlotte Surridge. 

Lily Salad. — Remove the shells from as many hard- 
boiled eggs as there are people to be served, and be- 
ginning at the small end of each egg, cut the whites 
lengthwise in five sections ; cut almost to the base, tak- 
ing care to leave the yolk whole. Turn back the petals 
thus formed so as to make each egg resemble an open 
lily. Roughen the surface of the yolk with a fork. 
Place on a crisp lettuce leaf. Serve with mayonnaise 
and bread and butter. 

Mrs. G. a. Kuhl. 

Manhattan Salad. — Dissolve one package of lemon 
jello in a pint of boiling water. While it is cooling, 
chop one cup tart apples, 1 cup English walnuts, 1 cup 
celery. Mix these ingredients and pour over them the 
Jello. Cool in individual molds and serve on crisp 
lettuce leaves with mayonnaise dressing. 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. Frank Albertsen. 

Meat Salad. — 1 cup mixed nuts, chopped fine ; 1 pint 
peas, 2 cups meat, ground fine — veal being preferred; 
1 large bunch celery, cut into small squares ; salt the 
celery before mixing with other articles : mix all to- 
gether ; serve on lettuce leaf, pour over salad dressing. 

Mrs. E. Conaghan. 



SALADS 69 

Normandy Salad. — Chop sufficient stoned olives to 
make a scant cupful ; also coarsely chop % of a cupful 
of nut meats. Peel and dice 3 cucumbers and mix with 
the other ingredients, sprinkling all with a liberal 
quantity of French dressing. Let stand for 2 hours, 
then turn into a bed of lettuce leaves and serve with 
mayonnaise. 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. F. L. Mahle. 

Nut Salad. — Take equal portion of English walnut, 
hickory nut, and pecan meats; add twice as much 
chopped celery as nut meats ; pour over all a, good salad 
dressing, and serve at once on lettuce leaves. 

Lincoln, 111. Gusta Rithaber. 

Pea Salad. — Wash and drain 1 quart canned peas ; 
add 4 small sweet pickles and small amount of cream 
cheese, cut in small dice ; mix with mayonnaise dress- 
ing, and serve on lettuce leaf. 

Mrs. Fred Epkens. 

Perfection Salad. — % box Knox gelatine, I/2 cup cold 
water, y^ cup mild vinegar, 1 pint boiling water, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, 1 cup finely-shredded /sabbage, juice of 1 
lemon, % cup sugar, 2 cups celery, cut in small pieces ; 
1/4 can sweet red peppers or pimentos, finely cut. 
Soak gelatine in cold water 5 minutes ; add vinegar, 
lemon juice, boiling water, sugar, and salt. Strain, 
and when beginning to set, add remaining ingredients. 
Turn into mould and chill. Serve on lettuce leaves 
with mayonnaise. Delicious with cold, sliced chicken 
or veal. 

Mrs. Geo. Folkers, Mrs. H. D. Fast, 

Peoria, 111. Mackinaw, 111. 

Pimento Salad. — Small head cabbage, chopped fine; 
1 can pimentos, chopped fine; 1% dozen medium-sized 
sweet pickles, chopped fine ; % cup sugar, little amount 
of mustard and celery seed ; salt and pepper to taste, 1 
pint of vinegar. This makes 1 quart, and will keep for 
some time. 

Ulricka Janssen. 



70 SALADS 

Poinsettia Salad. — Peel and chill 6 small tomatoes; 
when ready to serve, cut in eighths, not severing the 
sections, and open like the petals of a flower on a crisp 
lettuce leaf. In the center put 1 teaspoon of pearl 
onions, and serve with maj'onnaise or German dressing. 

Salad. — 1 can small, green beans, cut in small pieces ; 
1 can sifted peas. Sprinkle with pearl onions, two 
pimentos, cut fine. Use French dressing. 

Mrs. Otto Koch. 

Salmon Salad. — 1 can salmon, 4 sour pickles chopped 
fine, 3 hard-boiled eggs, 1 teaspoon mustard, 1 table- 
spoon sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons cream, 
6 tablespoons vinegar and 1 raw egg. Remove skin 
and bones from salmon and chop fine. Then add 
pickles and eggs and mix thoroughly. Stir the mus- 
tard and sugar together, add butter, cream, raw egg 
and vinegar and cook until smooth, stirring all the 
time. When cold pour over salmon. Serve on crisp 
lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. E. F. Hoffman. 

Salmon Salad. — Pour the oil from 1 can of salmon; 
chop fine, and mix with either celery or cabbage, 
chopped fine, taking 2 parts salmon to 1 of celery or 
cabbage. 

Dressing. — 1 egg, i/o cup vinegar, 1 teaspoon sugar, 
1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon French mustard, 1 table- 
spoon butter. Beat well and let come to a boil ; pour 
over salmon and celery, when cold, and set in a cool 
place. When ready to serve, trim dishes with lettuce, 
and put olives on top. 

Mrs. R. a. Kief. 

Shrimp Salad. — Use nice, crisp cabbage, about I/2 a 
large head, cut not too fine ; 2 hard-boiled eggs, cut up ; 
and either 1 large or 2 small cans of shrimp. The 
shrimp should be placed in cold water a while before 
cutting. Salt cabbage to suit taste. 

Shrimp Salad Dressing. — Beat 2 eggs until light; 
add 14 teaspoon ground mustard, 2 tablespoons sugar, 
14 teaspoon salt, a dash of pepper, I/2 cup vinegar, and 



SALADS 71 

lump of butter. Boil until thick. When cold, add 3 or 
4 tablespoons sweet cream. It depends on the strength 
of the vinegar how much cream you add. Do not add 
the dressing very long before serving. 

Mrs. a. H. Beinfohr. 

Tomato Jelly. — 2i/2 cups tomatoes, 1 slice onion, 1 
stalk celery, 1 bay leaf (if desired), 2 cloves, 1/2 tea- 
spoonful salt, piece of red pepper pod, or a few drops 
tobasco sauce; 1/2 cup mushrooms (chopped), 1 table- 
spoon vinegar, 1/2 box gelatine, or one ounce ; Vs ^W 
cold water. Cook together all, but the gelatine and 
vinegar, for 15 minutes ; then add the vinegar, next the 
gelatine, softened in the cold water. Strain, and 
mould as desired. Jelly may be used as a garnish or 
salad. If used as salad, serve on lettuce leaf, with 
French or boiled dressing. 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. Alma Magaret Traeger. 

Shrimp Salad. — Thoroughly wash and flake 1 can of 
shrimp ; add 1 sliced pickle, 6 olives, 1 cup celery, 2 
hard-boiled eggs. Cover with mayonnaise, and serve 
on lettuce. 

Mrs. a. a. Sipfle. 

MISS MUSSELMAN'S FAVORITE SALADS 

Shrimp Salad. — Make a lemon jelly by dissolving i/^ 
a box of powdered gelatine in 3 tablespoonfuls of 
water, adding to it I/2 a pint of boiling water and the 
juice of 2 lemons, and I/2 saltspoon of salt. Strain, 
and pour 1/3 in a mould, and, when slightly set, place 
on top a layer of shrimps that have been rinsed in ice 
water and wiped dry. Then pour over the remainder 
of the lemon jelly, and place on ice. When firm, the 
mould is held over boiling water for a moment to 
loosen the jelly, and then turned on a salad dish with 
crisp lettuce leaves underneath. Shrimps are laid 
around the salad, and mayonnaise passed with it. 

Spanish Jello Salad. — 1 package lemon jello, 2 table- 
spoons vinegar, 1 small cup shredded cabbage, 1 small 
cup celery, the pulp of 2 oranges cut fine, Vs can 



72 SALADS 

pimentos. Dissolve the jello in 1 pint of boiling 
water ; add vinegar, celery, oranges, pimentos and cab- 
bage, just as the jello begins to set. Mold in tea cups 
or in individual jello molds. Season with salt. Set in 
a cool place to harden and serve on a, crisp lettuce 
leaf with maj^onnaise dressing. Nuts may be added to 
the salad if desired. 
St. Louis, Mo. Miss Hazel Nahlick. 

Surprise Salad. — Peel tomatoes, cut slice from top, 
scoop out centers, fill with baked beans, replace top 
slice, place on lettuce leaf, and pour over mayonnaise. 

Jacksonville, 111. Minnie Balcke. 

Sweet Salad. — 1 large can pineapple cut in small 
pieces, 1 pound white grapes cut in halves and seeded, 
1/4-pound pecan meats, chopped, 2 boxes marshmallows 
cut in squares. Mix all together, but do not use juices. 

Dressing. — 4 egg yolks beaten, I/4 teaspoon salt, juice 
of 1 lemon, I/4 cup plain cream. Cook until thick and 
when cold add I/2 pint whipped cream. Mix with fruit 
and let stand twenty-four hours. 

Mrs. Urban J. Albertsen. 

Tongue Salad. — Boil, skin, and trim a tongue ; cut in 
dice, and add the whites of 6 hard-boiled eggs, cut in 
similar pieces. Cut fine the tender white stalks of 3 
heads of celery, so as to have 1 good cupful, and mix 
with the tongue and eggs. Serve on lettuce leaves 
with mayonnaise and garnish with pimentos. 

Tomato Salad. — 4 ripe tomatoes, skinned and sliced ; 
1 green pepper, shredded (seeds removed) ; 1 fresh 
cucumber, peeled and sliced ; 1 small onion, sliced thin. 
Make a dressing of 1 part vinegar to 4 of oil, a little 
salt and pepper to taste, or paprika. Beat to an emul- 
sion, then pour into vegetables and mix thoroughly. 

Alleghany, Cal. Mrs. Charles Wesley Smith. 

Three-P-Salad. — 1 pint peas, 1 pint hot, boiled pota- 
toes, 1 pint peanuts, all chopped fine. Serve with any 
favorite salad dressing, or the following French mus- 
tard dressing : 3 tablespoons of mustard, 1 tablespoon 
sugar, and 1 egg. Mix to a smooth paste, and grad- 



SALADS 73 

ually pour in a cup of vinegar. Stirring constantly, 
let it come to a boil. 

Mrs. Henry Weber. 

Tuna Fish Salad. — 5 small cans of tuna fish, 2 large 
stalks of celery, 1 cup nut meats, 4 hard boiled eggs, 1 
can pimentos, mayonnaise. Chop fish very fine and 
season to taste, then add celery, nuts, eggs, and pimen- 
tos which have been chopped fine. Mix well with 
mayonnaise. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves and garnish 
with spoon of sweet mayonnaise to which half whipped 
cream has been added. This will serve twenty people. 

Mrs. Walter Fluegel. 

White Cherry Salad. — 1 can white cherries (Fern- 
dell), V2 can diced pineapple. Seed cherries, and fill 
with blanched almonds; cover with mayonnaise and 
add 1 cup of double whipped cream to the mayonnaise, 
before adding to other ingredients. 

Mrs. John Spengler. 

Waldorf Salad. — 3 apples, 1 head celery, I/2 cup nut 
meats, I/3 cup salad dressing. Wash, scrape, and cut 
celery in i^-inch pieces. Cube apples, after peeling 
same. Pour the salad dressing over apples, celery, and 
nuts. Serve with garnishment of nuts, celery tips, and 
bright-colored pieces of apple peeling on lettuce leaves. 
This salad must not stand after dressing has been 
added. Celery and lettuce leaves made crisp by allow- 
ing them to stand in very cold water. 

Peoria, 111. Edna A. Thomas. 

Whipped Cream Salad. — 1 cup each of seeded white 
grapes, chopped apples, celery, pineapple, chopped 
marshmallows, chopped nut meats, and % cup candied 
cherries. Mix with whipped cream, sweetened slightly, 
and juice of 1 lemon. 

Mrs. James Rahn. 



VEGETABLES 

' ' Captivated by the odor of the kitchen. ' ' 
' ' How green you are and fresh. ' ' 

— Shakespeare. 

Winter Vegetables. — 

Beans, shelled — 1 to 1^ hours. 
Baked sweet potatoes — 1 hour. 
Boiled sweet potatoes — 14 hour. 
Boiled potatoes — 1/2 hour. 
Beets — 3 to 4 hours. 
Cabbage — 1% hours. 
Carrots — 1^ hours. 
Parsnips — 1 hour. 
Squash — 1 hour. 

Time Table for Frjring 

Croquettes, fritters, doughnuts, smelts — 3 to 5 min- 
utes. 

Summer Vegetables. — 

Asparagus — 20 to 30 minutes. 

Boiled potatoes — 1/3 hour. 

Beets — 45 to 60 minutes. 

Cabbage — 35 to 60 minutes. 

Carrots — 1 hour. 

Corn, green — 15 minutes. 

Onions^45 to 60 minutes. 

Beans, string — 45 to 60 minutes. 
Rice, in fast boil water — 20 minutes. 

Asparagus. — 2 bunches of asparagus, 1 pint of milk, 
2 tablespoons of butter, salt to taste ; 2 hard-boiled 
eggs, 1% tablespoons of flour. Boil tender in salt 
water. Drain, and put on buttered toast. Heat milk, 
add butter and salt ; thicken with flour ; cut eggs into 
this mixture, and pour over asparagus. 

Mrs. J. "W. Austin. 

75 



76 VEGETABIES 

Baked Beans. — Take a good quart or 11/2 quarts dry 
beans; let soak for several hours; drain, and parboil. 
Take an earthen bean jar, put in a layer of beans, and 
sprinkle with salt and a little pepper; add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of molasses and some slices of bacon. Con- 
tinue placing layers of beans and seasoning as above, 
until all the beans are used. Pour boiling water over 
all, and cover and bake all day. 

Mrs. Fearn Wilson. 

Baked Beans with Tomato Sauce. — 1 quart of white 
navy beans, I/2 lb. of salt pork or bacon, 3 tablespoons 
of brown sugar, 14 cup of good catsup, 1 scant table- 
spoon of salt. Pour boiling water over beans and boil 
15 or 20 minutes. Pour off water. Now in a 2-quart 
stone jar put a slice of pork or bacon, then % the 
beans and a iew pieces of pork; then the rest of the 
beans, and a piece of pork on top. Then add brown 
sugar, catsup, and salt, and cover well, with boiling 
water. Bake at least 8 hours, keeping them covered 
with boiling water. Keep jar covered with saucer or 
lid. 

Mrs. Fred Nolte. 

Mrs. J. W. Austin. 

Beans with Spare Ribs. — Take 1 pint of navy beans, 
soak well, boil about done ; season with salt. Take 1 
lb. of spare ribs, fry brown, cutting same in small 
pieces ; then mix all with beans ; put in dish, and bake 
1 hour. 

Mrs. Julia Harmel. 

Beets (with Butter Sauce). — 2 tablespoons of butter 
in skillet. Add 1 can of small beets, salt and pepper 
to taste, place lid on skillet, let heat through. 

Cabbage Head, Stuffed. — Select a soft head of cab- 
bage ; boil in salt water until leaves lose their crisp- 
ness, so they may be handled without breaking them. 
Lay back the leaves to the center of the head. Have 
ready some raw pork, ground and seasoned, and place 
a little of this in the center of the cabbage. Fold over 
the first few leaves, then another layer of meat and 



VEGETABLES 77 

leaves, and so continue until you have the head in the 
original form again. Tie it securely with muslin 
strips, place in pot with a little bacon, and boil slowly 
about 3 hours until tender and brown. 

Mrs. E. R. Peyton-. 

Cabbage Slaw, Hot. — Cut cabbage, then place in pan 
with tablespoon of lard ; let brown for a few minutes, 
then cover with warm water and let boil until almost 
dry ; add the following and heat well before serving : 
1 egg, beaten well; 1 tablespoon sugar, small piece of 
butter, pinch of salt, ^4 teacup vinegar, pinch of 
pepper. Mrs. Walter Fluegel. 

Cabbage Slaw, Cooked. — 1 small head cabbage, cut 
fine. Cook in small amount of water; add while cook- 
iiig) V2 cup vinegar, 1 onion, 1 heaping tablespoon 
sugar, butter size of a walnut, salt and pepper to 
taste; cook % hour; add 1 well-beaten egg immedi- 
ately after removing from the fire. 

Mrs. Susan Pfeipper. 

Carrots (Creamed). — Wash and scrape carrots. Cut 
in slices % inch thick and boil in salt water until 
tender. Cook liquid down to % cup and to 1 pint of 
carrots after being boiled add 1 tablespoon of butter 
and 1 tablespoon of flour mixed with 1 pint of milk. 
Return to stove and cook until the sauce has thickened. 

Other vegetables, such as cabbage, cauliflower, lima 
beans, asparagus, etc., may be prepared in the same 
way. Mrs. Chas. Schaefer. 

Carrots and Peas. — Peel, dice and boil in salt water 
3 medium-sized carrots. When tender drain and add 
to 1 can peas and I/2 pint milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 
salt and pepper and thicken with flour. Peas are nice 
cooked this way with mushrooms instead of carrots. 

Corn Oysters. — 1 can of Blue Ribbon corn, 3 eggs, 
beaten separately ; I/2 dozen crackers, roll fine. Add 
yolks, cracker-crumbs to corn ; salt and pepper ; add 
whites, drop with a spoon in hot lard ; fry a nice brown. 

Mrs. John Rust. 



78 VEGETABLES 

Corn Soujffle. — Use % of a can of corn, 2 tablespoons 
butter, and 1 heaping tablespoon flour; melt butter, 
then add flour ; stir well ; add 2 cups milk, boil until it 
begins to thicken, then beat all together to a cream 
sauce ; salt and pepper : add yolks of 2 eggs, stir all 
together; add i/o cup cracker-crumbs, then the well- 
beaten whites of 2 eggs. Bake in a brisk oven 15 
minutes. Mrs. Jacob Velde. 

Corn Fritters. — 1 can corn; add enough cracker- 
crumbs to make the consistency of mashed potatoes ; 
add 1 beaten egg, pepper and salt to taste ; form in 
balls, and fry brown in butter. 

Mrs. Fred Koch. 

Creamed Potatoes. — Place a piece of butter, size of 
an egg, in a pan, and add 1 tablespoon of flour. Stir 
until smooth, but do not brown. Then add 1 pint milk 
and cold potatoes, cut into small pieces. Add salt and 
pepper, and stir until thick. 

Mrs. R. D. Lackman. 

Creamed Onions. — Boil white onions in water, and 
drain. If they are large, cut into 14. Pour over them 
scalding milk, in which a pinch of soda has been 
stirred. Set over the fire, add 1 tablespoon of butter, 
% teaspoonful of corn starch, wet with milk ; a little 
minced parsley, with pepper and salt. Simmer 3 min- 
utes, and pour over. Serve hot. 

Mrs. Anna Arends. 

Creamed Spaghetti. — Cook spaghetti in salt water, 
drain and pour cold water over. Add two hard-boiled 
eggs minced and cover with white sauce. Cream cheese 
can be added instead of hard-boiled eggs. Pimentos 
can also be added. 

Dressing for Green String Beans. — 2 small onions, 
sliced and fried in 2 tablespoons lard, 2 tablespoons 
browned flour, 1 tablespoon brown sugar, 2 tablespoons 
vinegar. Mix with enough water to make a gravy. 
Pour over beans (which have been cooked until 
tender), and let come to a boil. 

Mrs. a. L. Koeneke. 



VEGETABLES 79 

Pried Celery, with Tomato Sauce. — Wash and cut 
celery in 3-incli pieces; dip in batter, fry in deep fat, 
and drain on brown paper. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Peoria, 111. Edna A. Thomas. 

Fried Celery Sticks. — Cut celery into pieces 4 inches 
in length. Steam until partly tender. Take from 
water, cool ; roll in egg and cracker-crumbs ; fry in hot 
fat. Pile in log cabin fashion on plate, and serve hot. 

Mrs. D. H. Abrahams. 

Fried Egg Plant. — Take fresh, purple egg-plant of a 
middling size ; cut in slices y^ of an inch thick, and 
soak for ^/^ hour in cold water, with a teaspoonful of 
salt in it. Have ready some cracker- or bread-crumbs, 
and 1 beaten egg ; drain off the M^ater from the slices, 
lay them on a napkin ; dip in the crumbs, and then in 
the egg ; put another coat of crumbs on them, and fry 
in butter to a light brown. The frying pan must be 
hot before the slices are put in — they will fry in 10 
minutes. You may pare them before you put them into 
the frying pan, or you may pull the skins off when you 
take them up. You must not remove them from the 
water until you are ready to cook, as the air will turn 
them black. 

Mrs. Frank Heckman. 

German Potatoes. — 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon 
flour, 1 tablespoon finely-chopped onion; brown to- 
gether. Add 1 pint boiling stock, or left-over gravy; 
1/2 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon sugar, 2 tablespoons vine- 
gar, 1 saltspoon ginger, dash of pepper, 1 pint cold, 
boiled potatoes, sliced. Boil all together, and serve. 

Ella H. Velde. 

Hashed Browned Potatoes. — 8 medium-sized pota- 
toes, sliced fine and chopped ; add pepper and salt to 
taste, and 3 tablespoons cream. Have a frying pan 
ready with a tablespoon of butter and 2 tablespoons of 
lard ; fry potatoes slowly % of an hour. Pat down as 
they fry, and keep away from edges of pan. When 
done, turn out in 1 piece in a dish. 



80 VEGETABLES 

Italian Stew. — Stew i/^ package spaghetti, broken in 
small pieces, 20 minutes; drain, and wash in cold 
water. Cook a 15-cent veal stew with boullion stock, 
well done, thickened. Add spaghetti to stew, 4 table- 
spoons of canned peas, paprika, salt, and pepper. Boil 
10 minutes. 

Mrs. Otto Koch. 

Italian Spaghetti. — (For four.) — Chop 2 red onions 
fine, and fry in tablespoon of lard until brown. Add 
this to 1 can of tomatoes and boil Yz hour. After 
tomatoes and onions boil, add 1 lb. of hamburger steak, 
and boil all together i/o hour ; salt and pepper to taste. 
Boil 1/2 package macaroni until done, and place in 
serving dish, over which grate some Italian cheese ; 
then pour the meat, tomatoes, and onion sauce over 
macaroni and serve hot. 

Tulsa, Okla. Mrs. C. W. Rolofson. 

Potatoes (Browned). — Boil desired number of po- 
tatoes with skins. When done peel while hot but be 
careful to keep potato whole. Fry in deep hot fat 
(take % butter) drain and season. 

Potato Boxes of Plenty. — 4 cups of hot riced pota- 
toes, add 4 tablespoons of butter, 3 tablespoons of 
cream or milk and the yolks of 2 eggs. Season with 1 
teaspoon of salt, % teaspoon of pepper and a few drops 
of onion juice and beat thoroughly. Shape in to six 
forms (the shape of an egg) dip in crumbs, egg, and 
crumbs again, fry 2 minutes in deep fat and drain on 
brown paper. Cut a slice from each, not severing, 
thus making a lid and scoop out some of the inside. 
Fill with creamed veal or chicken and decorate with 
a sprig of parsley. 

]\Irs. John Corbett. 

Potato Croquettes. — 2 cups hot, riced potatoes, 2 
tablespoons butter, % teaspoon salt, % teaspoon pep- 
per, 1/4 teaspoon celery salt, few grains cayenne, few 
drops onion juice or little chopped onion, yolk of 1 
«gg, 1 teaspoon finely-chopped parsley. Mix ingre- 
dients in order given, and beat thoroughly. Shape, 



VEGETABLES 81 

dip in crumbs, egg, and crumbs again, and fry in deep 
fat; drain on brown paper. Fat must be allowed to 
become real hot again between each frying, or cro- 
quettes will break open. To shape, first form a smooth 
ball by rolling one rounding teaspoon mixture between 
hands, then roll on a board until of desired length, and 
flatten ends ; or roll balls pointed at one end and flatten 
other end. Mrs. Aethur W. Hinners. 

Potato Fritters. — Mash potatoes, moisten with milk ; 
add 2 eggs, thicken with cracker-crumbs or flour; fry 
in pan of hot lard. 

Mrs. Ph. Keinhard, Sr. 

Potatoes (French Fried). — Wash and pare raw pota- 
toes, dice and wash well in cold water and put on 
cloth to dry. Fry in deep hot fat. Drain and season. 

Cora M. Albertsen. 

Potato Puffs. — To 2 cups of mashed potatoes add 2 
well-beaten eggs, 2 tablespoons of flour, sifted with 1/2 
teaspoon of baking powder and a pinch of salt. Drop 
by spoonful in deep hot fat and drain. 

Clara Albertsen. 

Potatoes Served in New Way. — Mash potatoes and 
season well. Butter muffin pan, and fill tins with 
mashed potatoes, making potatoes come to a point, and 
then brown in oven about 30 minutes, when they may 
be slipped from pans, and will look just like muffins. 

Clinton, Iowa. Mrs. L. P. Saenger. 

Potatoes Baked in Half Shells. — 6 potatoes medium- 
size; 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 3 tablespoonfuls hot milk, 
salt and pepper, whites of 2 eggs, well beaten ; grated 
cheese. 

Directions. — Wash potatoes. Place in dripping 
pan; bake in hot oven 20 minutes, or until soft. Re- 
move from oven, cut slice from top of each, and scoop 
out. Mash, add ingredients, beat until very smooth 
and soft; then add whites of eggs. Refill skins, 
sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake 5 to 8 minutes 
in a very hot oven. 

Peoria, III. Edna A. Thomas. 



82 VEGETABLES 

Potatoes Stuffed. — Peel good-sized potatoes and hol- 
low out a place in each, leaving a canoe- or boat- 
shaped piece. Fill the hollow with a mixture of 
chopped ham, hard-boiled egg, and green peppers ; sea- 
soning to taste with salt and pepper, and melted but- 
ter. Bake until the potatoes are done. 

Mackinaw, 111. Mrs. H. D. Fast. 

Parsnip Fritters. — 4 good-sized parsnips, 1 egg, 1 
tablespoon flour. Peel, and boil parsnips till tender. 
Drain, mash, add flour, beaten egg, little salt, pepper. 
Mix well, form in little balls, and fry in hot drippings. 

Mrs. Irving M. Weimer. 

Parsnips (Fried). — Wash and peel parsnips and cook 
them whole in salt water until tender then drain and 
slice lengthwise in slices about i/3 inch thick. Dip in 
egg and cracker-crumbs and fry a light brown. 

Mrs. Charles Schaefer. 

Rice. — Wash and cleanse the rice. Then pour boil- 
ing hot water on it — half a gallon of water to one cup 
of raw rice — and let it boil without stirring it for 
from twenty-five to thirty minutes, according to the 
quality of your rice. When the kernels, although each 
seems separate and independent, are soft, pour off the 
water, return it to the fire and let it steam until it 
seems dry. Then your rice is done and it may be 
served with sugar and cream, or with sugar and pow- 
dered cinnamon. Or it may be left plain and served 
with browned bread crumbs. 

Mrs. Charles Schaefer. 

Rice Croquettes. — ^Wash one-half cup rice and put in 
double boiler with one pint of milk. Cook until thick, 
add yolks of two eggs and beat until smooth. When 
cool form in oblong balls, dip in egg then bread crumbs 
and fry in boiling fat. 

Rice Croquettes (Sweet). — 2 cups cooked rice, 2 or 
3 tablespoons of milk, 2 tablespoons of butter, % tea- 
spoon of salt, 1 egg, 2 tablespoon of sugar, grated 
rind of % lemon. Warm rice in a double boiler with 
enough milk to moisten it. Add butter, salt, sugar, 



VEGETABLES 83 

lemon and beaten egg, and cook until the egg thickens. 
Spead mixture on a plate. When cool shape into balls 
making a depression like a nest in each. Roll in 
crumbs, egg and crumbs again. Fry in deep fat, drain 
and place a cube of jelly in each and serve. 

Cora Albertsen. 

Bice. — Place 1 cup of washed rice in a double boiler, 
add a pinch of salt and cover with water. When the 
rice has boiled good and consumed all the water, turn 
in to a strainer and rinse with cold water, thus leaving 
each grain distinct. Then put back in double boiler, 
cover with milk and add a large piece of butter, stir 
occasionally with a silver fork. Add more milk as 
needed and cook until tender. 

Mrs. George Eldredge. 

Rutabagoes. — Peel and dice as many rutabagoes as 
you wish to serve. Take 1 pound of beef ribs or spare- 
ribs for two people and boil with the rutabagoes for 
3 hours. 1/2 hour before serving add 2 medium-sized 
potatoes sliced. Boil the juice down enough so it can 
all be mashed together, after taking the meat out, to 
the consistency of mashed potatoes. Turnips can be 
cooked in this way, also. They can also be cooked 
until tender and a few tablespoons of butter and the 
juice boiled down until they are brown. 

Malinda Kreigsman. 

Spaghetti with Tomato Sauce. — Cook one box of 
spaghetti same as for creamed spaghetti. Take one 
quart can of tomatoes, two slices of onions, four cloves, 
cook one-half hour, then put this through colander. 
Put two tablespoons of butter in skillet and add two 
tablespoons of flour and when blended add strained 
tomatoes. Boil, then pour over spaghetti. Heat thor- 
oughly and serve. Mrs. Frank Heckman. 

Stuffed Peppers. — Take 2 large, green peppers, boil 
tender, cut in i^, and take out the pulp. Mix 1^ cups 
of tomatoes with bread-crumbs and a little onion. 
Stuff the peppers ; season, and bake brown. 

Peoria, III. Edna A. Thomas. 



84 VEGETABLES 

Stuffed Peppers. — Take cold, chopped meat, raw 
tomatoes, and onions, according to how many peppers 
used. Add 2 eggs, cracker-crumbs, and salt. Put in 
peppers, which have had the seeds removed. Cut top 
off to make a lid. Fill with mixture and put lid on 
with a toothpick. Bake in pan with water and left- 
over gravy. Mae McCarron. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. — Cut a slice from the stem end 
of 12 smooth, ripe, and solid tomatoes, and scoop out 
the soft pulp with a small spoon. Mince a small onion, 
and fry it slightly : add a gill of hot water, the tomato 
pulp, and 2 ounces of cold veal, chicken, or ham, 
chopped fine. Simmer slowly, and season with pepper 
and salt. Stir into the pan cracker-crumbs enough to 
absorb the moisture. Take off from fire, and let it 
cool. Stuff the tomatoes with this mass. Sprinkle dry 
crumbs over the top and add a bit of butter to the top 
of each. Bake until slightly brown on top, and serve 
hot. 

Springfield, III. Mrs. John A. New. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. — Mix y^ pint of stale bread- 
crumbs, 1/2 cup of finely-chopped nuts, 1 grated onion, 
1 level teaspoonful salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, 1 
tablespoonful of butter, melted. Cut the stem end 
from 6 tomatoes, take out seeds and centers. Stuff 
the tomatoes with the mixture and stand in a baking 
pan with a little water, and bake in a quick oven 30 
minutes, basting once or twice. 

Clinton, Iowa. Mrs. L. P. Saenger. 

Sweet Potato Balls. — Wash and boil sweet potatoes 
with peeling on ; when tender, peel and mash fine ; roll 
in balls about size of an egg, then roll in q.%^ and fine 
cracker-crumbs ; fry in plenty of butter and lard 
mixed, until brown. 

Mrs. Ben J. Epkens. 

Sweet Potatoes in Blankets. — 1 can sweet potatoes 
(Blue Ribbon), 15 cents worth sliced bacon; form the 
canned potatoes in the shape of a medium-sized sweet 



VEGETABLES 85 

potato, season with salt and pepper, fasten a slice of 
bacon around each, using a wooden toothpick to hold 
it in place. Put potatoes in a baking dish with % cup 
of water and bake until brown (about 1 hour). May 
use the uncooked potatoes, when in season. Serve 
without removing the bacon. 

Mrs. G. N, Weber. 

Sweet Potatoes Candied. — Peel and slice thin enough 
sweet potatoes to fill a quart pan. Pour over them a 
cup of rich, sweet milk, a scant tablespoonful of but- 
ter, and 1/3 cup of sugar. Grate nutmeg over them. 
Bake in a hot oven. 

Elizabeth Chapman. 

Sweet Potato Croquettes. — 3 cups of hot, riced sweet 
potatoes; I/2 teaspoon of salt, a little pepper, and 3 
tablespoons melted butter; 1 egg shape, roll in flour, 
dip in white of egg and roll in bread-crumbs, and fry; 
if they are too stiff, add a little milk. Make a white 
sauce and add a little parsley, cut fine, and pour 
around croquettes when ready to serve. 

Miss Clara Spengler. 

Sweet Potatoes, Southern Style. — Peel and cut the 
sweet potatoes lengtliAvise in i'2-iiich slices. Place 1 
layer in a large, shallow, granite pan. Add a little 
water, about ^^ inch in the pan, salt to taste, and for 
4 persons use 14 cup butter and i/o cup brown sugar. 
Cover, and cook the water, butter, and sugar into the 
potatoes, and when brown turn them. When tender, 
lift out and place others in. To have them delicious 
use very little water and a generous amount of butter 
and sugar. 

Mrs. Irving Weimer. 

Sweet Potato Puff. — Into 2 cupfuls of boiled, mashed 
sweet potatoes whip 2 well-beaten eggs, % pint milk, 
2 tablespoons melted butter, and seasoning of salt and 
pepper. Mix well, pour into a well-buttered dish, and 
bake in a moderate oven for I/2 hour. 

Mrs. G. N. Weber. 



86 VEGETABLES 

Tomatoes Fried. — 

If you would fry tomatoes right, 
Select large oues, clean and bright ; 
Slice them as thick as are your thumbs, 
And roll them well in cracker-crumbs: 
Add salt and pepper to the taste, 
A little sugar, too, in haste ; 
Then, with a fire hot and bright, 
Heat well your pan, and do not slight 
The lard and butter, lest it burn. 
When browned on one side, overturn; 
And when, at last, both sides are done. 
Hot from the spider, give us one. 
Peoria, 111. Mrs. R. P. Lorenz. 

Mashed Potatoes, Creamed and Browned. — Peel 6 
or 8 large potatoes, and cut into small dice of uni- 
form size, dropping them into cold water as you cut 
them. Add a pinch of baking soda to a cup of cream 
(or milk), heat in a double boiler, then stir in 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter, worked smooth with a generous 
teaspoon of corn starch. Season with salt and pepper. 
Drain the potatoes, stir them into the white sauce ; 
turn all into a buttered baking dish. Sprinkle with 
grated cheese, then fine bread-crumbs. Bake % of an 
hour. Cover dish for y^^ hour. Uncover, and brown. 

Minneapolis, Minn. Alma H. Smith. 



CHEESE DISHES 

"A delicate odor as ever hit my nostril.'' — Pericles. 

Cheese Croquettes. — 3 tablespoons butter, 1% cups 
mild cheese, grated ; ^4 cup flour, % cup milk, yolks 
of 2 eggs, salt and pepper, a few grains cayenne. Make 
a thick, white sauce, using butter, flour, and milk ; add 
yolks of eggs, and stir until well mixed ; then add 
cheese. As soon as grated cheese melts, remove from 
fire and season with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Spread 
in shallow pan, and cool. Turn on a board, cut in 
small squares or strips, dip in crumbs, eggs, and 
crumbs again ; fry in deep fat, and drain on brown 
paper. 

Domestic Science, Bradley Institute, 

Peoria, 111. Miss Helen M. Day. 

Cheese Canapes. — Toast circular pieces of bread ; 
sprinkle with a thick layer of grated cheese ; season 
with salt and cayenne. Place on a tin sheet, and bake 
until cheese is melted. Serve at once. 

Miss Helen Day. 

Cheese on Toast. — Cut in small pieces % lb. of cream 
cheese and add 1 pint of milk ; let come to a boil, and 
remove from fire, and stir in 3 well-beaten eggs. Heat, 
but do not boil. Serve on toast piping hot. 

Mrs. Ralph Lord. 

Cheese Wafers. — Take wafer crackers, sprinkle with 
grated cream cheese and dash of paprika. Put in oven 
and leave until cheese is melted and brown. Serve 
with salads. 

Dream Cakes. — Spread some thick mayonnaise on a 
very thin slice of cream cheese; put this between 2 
slices of crustless bread, and fry in butter on both 
sides to a golden brown. Nice for chafing dish. 

Mrs. Phil H. Sipfle. 



CHEESE DISHES 89 

Welsh Rarebit. — Make a white sauce with 1 table- 
spoon butter, 1 of flour, and enough rich milk to make 
creamy sauce. Then add a heaping coffee cup of 
cream cheese, cut into bits; salt and a little red pep- 
per. Stir in the cheese, and boil until it is melted and 
as thick as desired. Serve on toast or wafer crackers. 

Jacksonville, 111. Minnie Balcke. 

Welsh Rarebit (Rich). — 1/2 lb. American cream 
cheese, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 eggs, % cup cream, salt 
and pepper. Cut cheese into small pieces, and put in 
blazer; stir as it heats. As soon as it begins to melt, 
add butter; when it begins to look smooth, add eggs, 
beaten, and then cream. Cook until smooth and of 
desired consistency. Serve on toast or wafer crackers. 

Jacksonville, 111. Minnie Balcke. 



EGGS 

"Mine honest friend, 

Will you take eggs for money?" 
"No, my lord, I'll fight." 

— Shakespeare. 

Baked Eggs, with Thin Cream. — Butter muffin or 
gem pan; sprinkle with cracker-crumbs; slip in egg 
carefully, seasoned with salt and pepper, and cover 
with 2 tablespoonfuls thin cream. Bake in moderate 
oven until of jelly-like consistency. Do not bake until 
tough and hard. 

Peoria, 111. Edna A. Thomas. 

Baked Eggs. — Put 2 cups hot cream sauce in a wide, 
shallow, baking dish ; drop the eggs in this sauce, side 
by side ; season with salt and pepper ; sprinkle over the 
top a handful of grated cheese. Bake in the oven 
about 10 minutes, or until the egg is set. 

Mes. Phil. H. Sipfle. 

Creamed Eggs. — White Sauce. — 1 tablespoon butter, 
1 large tablespoon flour, 1 cup milk, 14 teaspoonful 
salt. Poach 4 eggs. Place on slices of toast, and cover 
with white sauce. On each egg put a dash of paprika, 
and a teaspoon of grated cheese. 

Mrs. H. W. Hippen. 

Cinnamon Toast. — For this the bread should be at 
least a day old. Cut in %-inch slives. Remove crusts, 
toast quickly, spread with butter and sprinkle very 
thickly with powdered sugar and cinnamon. Place in 
oven a moment to blend the flavors. Serve very hot. 

Mrs. Walter Fluegel. 

Deviled Eggs. — Boil the eggs 20 minutes; shell, and 
cut in halves. Take out yolks, and mix the yolks with 
ground mustard, salt and pepper, vinegar and butter 
to taste. Put the mixture into the whites, and serve. 
Put together with toothpicks. 

Miss Ella Meinen. 

91 



92 EGGS 

Egg Timbales. — Beat 6 eggs well with fork; add 1 
teaspoon salt, 1 speck of pepper, 1 teaspoon chopped 
parsley, y^ teaspoon onion juice. Beat again, and add 
1% cups milk. Pour into 6 well-buttered timbale 
moulds, and place in pan of hot water, and cook in 
moderate over 20 minutes. Turn out and serve with 
tomato sauce. 

Sauce. — Melt 2 tablespoons butter ; add 2 tablespoons 
flour and 1 pint strained tomatoes ; also slice of onion, 
1 small bay leaf, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 speck of pepper, 2 
cloves, a bit of mace. Simmer 15 minutes ; strain, and 
serve. Mrs. J. H. Brooks. 

French Toast. — 1/2 pin sweet milk, one egg well 
beaten. Stir well and in the mixture dip slices of 
bread or coffee cake and fry on a buttered griddle a 
light brown. Serve rolled in powdered sugar or with 
maple syrup. 

Malinda Kreigsman. 

Golden Rod Eggs. — Boil 6 eggs hard, dice whites 
and add to white cream sauce made with 1 pint milk 
and 2 tablespoons of butter and 2 tablespoons of flour. 
Season with salt and pepper. Sprinkle top with yolks 
pressed through a fruit press. Nice served on toasted 
bread or served as vegetable. 

Malinda Kreigsman. 

Ham Omelette. — ^Have ready 1 cup of cold boiled 
ham chopped fine, take six eggs and beat separately, 
to the beaten yolks add one-half cup cream or rich 
milk, seasoning to taste and then the beaten whites. 
Pour % of mixture in hot, well-buttered frying pan, 
then the chopped ham and over all the remaining eggs. 
When set turn carefully with spatula or pan-cake 
turner until well baked. Place on hot platter and 
then serve. Will serve eight people. 

Mrs. Walter Fluegel. 

Lemon Toast. — Cut thick slices of bread, and cut 
into squares about half through on one side ; toast, and 
spread well with butter on cut side, while hot. Beat 
up whites of eggs sweeten and add a little lemon juice ; 



EGGS 93 

heap on the buttered toast, and brown delicately in 
oven. Place on serving plate, and pour around the 
toast a little hot milk to soften. For 1 egg white, use 
1/^ tablespoonful sugar and i/2 teaspoon lemon juice. 
This is a very appetizing and attractive way in which 
to serve egg and toast to invalids. 

Mrs. a. W. Hinnees. 

Nest Egg. — Cut a stiffly-beaten egg-white upon a 
piece of buttered toast, and in the center of the white 
of egg drop the yolk. Put into the oven to brown 
lightly. 

Minnie B. Ehrlicher. 

Omelet. — 6 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately ; 
V2 pint milk, 6 teaspoonfuls of cornstarch, 1 teaspoon- 
ful baking powder, a little salt ; add whites, beaten to 
a stiff froth. Cook in butter. 

Mrs. Traeger. 

Plain Omelette. — 3 eggs, well beaten; 3 tablespoons 
sweet milk, pinch of salt, dash of pepper and paprika; 
mix well. Have frying pan hot, melt half butter and 
lard, pour in the mixture. Keep bringing each fold 
toward you with a fork until firm, then fold on the hot 
platter, and serve at once. 

Chicago, 111. Mrs. H. L. Phillips. 

Poached Eggs. — Have in a shallow pan the water 
just at boiling point, having put in % a teaspoonful of 
salt and tablespoonful of vinegar. Drop eggs in 1 at a 
time, being careful to keep separate from one another. 
When nicely set, in about 5 minutes, dip out with 
skimming spoon and place on slices of warm toast. 
Garnish with parsley. 

Dora Albertsen Rompel. 

Snow Eggs. — Beat the whites of six eggs very stiff, 
place in well-buttered pie pan, make six small dents in 
the whites and in each one place a whole unbroken 
yolk and a bit of butter. Season to suit taste and 
bake 10 minutes in medium oven. Serve at once. 

Mrs. Walter Fluegel. 



94 EGGS 

Scrambled Eggs. — 6 ep:gs, 4 crackers, 8 tablespoons 
of milk, 1/4 teaspoon salt, pinch of white pepper, 2 
tablespoons of butter. Roll crackers and add milk. 
Beat the eggs without separating and add to milk and 
crackers. Add the other ingredients, mixing thor- 
oughly. Melt the butter in frying pan and pour in 
mixture. Stir constantly until it is soft and creamy 
throughout. 

Mrs. Charles Schaefer. 



BREAD 

"Now, therefore, I pray thee, hearken tliou also unto the 
voice of thine handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before 
thee ; and eat, that thou niayest have strength when thou goest 
on thy way."- — Bible. 

TIME TABLE OF COOKING 

Baking 
Bread. — (Steamed) brown, 3 hours. 
Beans. — Soaked and boiled, 3 to 4 hours. 
Bread. — White loaf, 45 to 60 minutes. Graham, 35 

to 45 minutes. 
Biscuits. — Raised, 12 to 20 minutes. 

Baking powder, 12 to 15 minutes. 
Cake. — Layer, 15 to 25 minutes. 
Loaf, 40 to 60 minutes. 
Sponge, 45 to 60 minutes. 
Plain, 30 to 40 minutes. 
Fruit, 2 to 3 hours. 
Cookies. — 6 to 10 minutes. 
Custard. — Baked in cups, 20 to 25 minutes. 
Ginger Bread. — 25 to 35 minutes. 
Graham Gems. — 30 minutes. 
Pudding. — Rice and Bread, 45 to 60 minutes. 
Rice and Tapioca, 1 hour. 
Indian, 2 to 3 hours. 
Steamed, 1 to 3 hours. 
Steamed Plum, 2 to 3 hours. 
Pie Crust. — About 30 minutes. 
Potatoes. — 1 hour. 

BREAD 
Leavening Formulas. — A practical housekeeper needs 
to be able to formulate recipes. In preparing quick 
bread she must know the required consistency of flour 
mixtures — that is, the approximate proportion of mois- 
ture and flour, and the proportion of leavening, season- 
ing and shortening materials to use with flour ; i/^ tea- 

96 



BREAD 97 

V spoonful of baking soda to one cup of sour milk, y^ 
teaspoon baking soda to 1 cup of molasses. 2 tea- 
spoons of baking powder to 1 cup of flour when no 
eggs are used. When eggs are used reduce quantity 
of baking powder by y^. teaspoon full for each egg. 
2^^ teaspoons baking powder to one cup of coarse 
flour when no eggs are used. 1/4 teaspoon of salt to 
one cup of flour. 1 tablespoon of fat to 1 cup of flour. 

Apple Cake (Apfel Kuchen). — 1% cakes Fleisch- 
mann's yeast, 1 cup milk, scalded and cooled; 1 table- 
spoonful sugar, 3I/2 cups sifted flour, i^ cup butter, 
% cup sugar, 2 eggs, % teaspoonful salt, 5 apples. 
Dissolve yeast and 1 tablespoonful sugar in lukewarm 
milk, add IV2 cups flour to make a sponge, and beat 
until smooth. Cover and set aside in a warm place 
until light — about % of an hour. Have sugar and 
butter well-creamed, add it to sponge. Then add eggs 
well-beaten, rest of flour, or enough to make a soft 
dough, and salt. Knead lightly. Place in well-greased 
bowl. Cover and set aside to rise — about 2 hours. 
Roll y^ an inch thick. Place in 2 well-greased, shallow 
pans. Brush with butter, sprinkle with sugar. Cut 
apples in eighths and press into dough, sharp edge 
downward. Sprinkle with cinnamon. Cover and let 
rise about i/^ hour. Bake 20 minutes. Keep covered 
with pan first 10 minutes, in order that the apples may 
be thoroughly cooked. 

Apfel Kucheon. — Make a biscuit dough of 1 cup of 
flour, 1 teaspoonful of lard, 1 teaspoonful of baking 
powder, salt and milk enough that will make a dough 
that will roll out. Pare 6 apples, and slice rather 
small; place on top of dough that has been rolled out 
and placed in pie tin. Cream together 1 cup of sugar, 
1 tablespoon of flour, 1 cup of milk, small bits of butter 
and cinnamon. An added ^^^ makes this very good. 
Pour over and bake i/o hour. 

Mrs. Chaeles Schaefeb. 

Bread. — Pare and boil until soft, 2 medium-sized 
potatoes. Scald with the potato water 1 large spoonful 



98 BREAD 

of flour, and add the potatoes, mashed finely. When 
cool enough, add a cake of good, dry yeast that has 
been well-soaked in warm water; let this stand from 
noon until night in a warm place to rise. Then add 
to this a good tablespoonful of salt and a pint of warm 
water, and flour to make a stiff batter; beat well. (I 
sometimes add to this a little sugar.) Let stand in 
a cool place until morning. It is a good plan to stir 
this well occasionally when it is getting light and 
foamy. In the morning add IV2 or 2 pints of luke- 
warm water, and knead to a stiff dough — don't be 
afraid to knead well and a long time, adding all the 
flour the dough will take — let stand until light, and 
knead well again ; let rise again, and divide into loaves, 
kneading well again. When the loaves are light 
enough, bake in a moderate oven from 1 hour to 1 
hour and 5 minutes. This makes 6 loaves. 

Mrs. Anna K. Worker. 

Bread, White. — (Quick Method). — I cake Fleisch- 
mann's yeast, 1 quart luke-warm water, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls lard or butter, melted; 3 
quarts sifted flour, 1 tablespoonful salt. Dissolve yeast 
and sugar in lukewarm water. Do not allow it to 
stand more than 10 minutes. Add lard or butter, and 
% the flour. Beat until smooth, then add balance of 
the flour, or enough to make dough that can be 
handled, and the salt. Knead until smooth and elastic. 
Place in greased bowl, cover, and set aside in a moder- 
ately warm place, free from draft, until light — about 
2 hours. Mould into loaves. Place in well-greased 
bread pans, fllling them I/2 full. Cover, and let rise 1 
hour, or until double in bulk. Bake 40 to 50 minutes. 

NOTE. — Two cakes of yeast may be used in this 
recipe with advantage to the bread and a saving of 
time. 

Bran Bread. — 2 cups sterilized bran, 2 cups graham 
flour, 2 cups flour, 1 cup sugar, 2 cups butter milk, 
1/2 cup dark molasses, 2 level teaspoons soda, 1 level 
teaspoon salt, 1 egg, well beaten, 1 cup broken nut 



BREAD 99 

meats. Mix all dry ingredients together and all the 
wet ingredients together. Put the soda in the butter- 
milk, mix all well. Put into greased pan and bake 1 
hour and 20 minutes. If desired 2/3 cup of raisins 
may be added. Mrs John Zerwekh. 

Bread (Brown). — ll^ cups graham flour, l^^ cups 
white flour, % cup rye flour, 1 cup New Orleans molas- 
ses, 2 cups sour milk, 2 scant teaspoons soda, 1 scant 
teaspoon salt. Fruit, if desired. Steam in baking 
powder cans 3 hours. Mrs. C. E. Oswald. 

Bread (Brown). — 1 cup graham flour, 1 cup rye 
flour, 1 cup corn meal, 1 cup sour milk, 1 cup molasses, 
1 tablespoon lard or butter, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon 
soda. Steam 2 hours. 

Quincy, 111. Mrs. T. Heath. 

Bread (Brown). — 1 cup graham flour, 1 cup whole 
wheat, % cup corn meal, 1 cup seeded raisins, 1 cup 
molasses, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup sour 
milk. Add raisins last ; steam 3 hours in baking pow- 
der cans, then bake % hour. 

Mrs. J. D. Conaghan. 

Bread (Pleischmann's Nut). — 1 cake Fleischmann's 
yeast, 1 cup milk, scalded and cooled ; 1 tablespoon 
sugar, % cup chopped walnuts, 2 tablespoonfuls lard 
or butter, l^ cup sugar, whites of 1 egg, 3 cups sifted 
flour, 1/3 teaspoonful salt. Dissolve yeast and 1 table- 
spoonful sugar in lukewarm milk. Add li/4 cups flour 
and beat thoroughly. Cover and set aside in warm 
place 50 minutes, or until light. Add sugar and lard, 
or butter, creamed ; white of egg, beaten stiff ; nuts, 
remainder of flour, or enough to make a dough, and 
lastly the salt. Knead well. Place in greased bowl. 
Cover and set aside for about 2% hours to rise, or until 
double in bulk. Mould into a loaf or small finger 
rolls, and fill well-greased pans I/2 full. Let rise again 
until light — about 1 hour. Loaf should bake 45 
minutes. Recommended by 

Mrs. C. J. Aydelott. 



100 BREAD 

Bread (Graham). — To a large cup of yeast sponge 
add 1 quart of warm water, a teaspoon of salt, a table- 
spoon of sugar, 2 tablespoons of table syrup, and a 
quart of graham flour ; add white flour and mix. Turn 
on board and knead more white flour in the dough. 
Do not work as stiff as white bread ; return to well- 
greased bowl and set in a warm place to rise. Form 
into loaves, and let rise just % hour. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven 1 hour. Mrs. E. B, Sanborn. 

Bread (Graham Nut). — 1 quart graham flour, 1 cup 
light brown sugar, 1 cup nut meats, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 
teaspoon baking soda, dissolved in warm water ; 1 cake 
compressed yeast. Soak yeast in warm water until 
dissolved, then stir in the other ingredients and mix 
with slightly warm water to a sponge ; let this rise 
until light, and stiffen with white flour to a soft dough, 
then work as other bread. 

Mrs. John Rust. 

Bread (Graham Nut). — i/^ cup butter, 1/2 cup sugar, 
2 eggs, 1/2 cup New Orleans molasses, 2 cups sour milk, 

1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup white flour, 3 cups graham 
flour, 1/2 teaspoon salt, % cup black or English walnuts. 
This makes 2 small loaves, or can be baked in a sheet 
like ginger bread. Baked without the nuts it makes a 
very nice brown bread. 

Mrs. a. W. Hinners. 

Bread Cake. — 2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter and lard, 

2 cups sponge, 1 lb. raisins, 1 cup nuts, 3 eggs, 1 tea- 
spoon cloves, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 glass jelly, put in last. 
Let raise 1 hour. Bake 1 hour. 

Champaign, 111. Mrs. A. Wascher. 

Coffee Cake. — 1 quart milk (warm), 2 quarts flour, 
sifted 3 times; 15 tablespoons sugar, 15 tablespoons 
melted lard, 2 eggs, 1 square compressed yeast. With 
this same dough I make apple cake, cinnamon rolls, 
light doughnuts, currant bread, etc. You may use any 
kind of fruit you like. 

Denver, Colo. Mrs. John Look. 



BREAD 101 

Coffee Cake. — Let 1 cake of compressed yeast dis- 
solve for 15 minutes in i/4 cup luke warm water, to 
which a teaspoon of sugar has been added. While this 
is dissolving, pour 1 cup of hot water on 1 cup mashed 
potatoes (left from dinner), and stir over fire until all 
lumps in the potato have disappeared ; while hot, stir 
in iy2 cups sifted flour. Let this stand until it is luke- 
warm, and then stir in the dissolved yeast cake. Set 
in a warm place, and let it rise. When it has raised to 
double its original size, add to it the following: l^/^ 
cups warm water, % cup melted butter and lard (half 
and half), 2 whole eggs, or the yolks of 3 (the yolks are 
preferred) ; 1 tablespoon salt, % cup sugar, and 7 cups 
flour. Work this until the dough leaves the fingers 
easily, set in a warm place to rise (about 3 hours) ; then 
divide the dough into 5 parts, roll out, and put in pie 
pans ; let rise once more, then spread on melted butter, 
sugar, and cinnamon ; bake in a moderate oven. The 
flour in this recipe is measured after sifting. 

Mrs. Phil. H. Sipfle. 

Coffee Cake. — Knead and roll out bread sponge, 
adding lard and butter, 1 egg, and 1/2 cup of sugar. 
Make thick enough to split. Spread with pared, boiled 
apples, sliced; raisins, currants, and cinnamon, also 
citron. Cover top with chopped peanuts and sugar. 

Chicago, 111. Mrs. Martz, 

Coffee Cake. — 1^ cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 large teaspoon- 
ful butter, 1 cup sweet milk, pinch of salt, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls baking powder, enough flour to make a stiff batter. 
Put into baking pan and cover top with sugar, butter, 
and cinnamon. Bake in moderate oven 20 minutes. 
Cut in squares and serve with sauce on page 153, 

Topeka, 111. Mrs. G. H. Bartel. 

Coffee Cake, Raisin. — li/^ tablespoons lard or but- 
ter, 3 tablespoons of sugar — cream these. 1 egg, 1 
cup sweet milk, 14 teaspoon salt, 2 cups flour, 3 large 
tablespoons of sponge, I/2 cup small raisins ; put in good 



102 BREAD 

size pan, pour melted butter over top, sprinkle with 
sugar and cinnamon, and bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. K. Epkins. 

Coffee Cake Filling. — 1 cup sugar, 1/2 cup butter, 
14 cup flour, 1 egg, 3 tablespoons milk; flavor with 
vanilla. Boil together until thick ; when cool, spread 
on cake when ready to bake. 

Corn Bread (Peanut Butter). — % cup yellow corn 
meal, % cup flour, V2 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 1 egg 
well beaten, 1 rounding tablespoon shortening, % tea- 
spoon salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder, ^ cup Beech- 
nut Peanut Butter. Cream the peanut butter and 
shortening, add sugar, milk and egg. Add meal, flour, 
salt, baking powder, sifted together. Stir, beat well, 
and turn into well greased shallow pan. Bake about 
30 minutes in moderate oven. Marian Koeneke. 

Christmas Raisin Bread. — Make a sponge at noon 
with 1 quart flour and milk or water, 1 cup good, soft 
yeast; set to rise. In the evening, when this is very light, 
have ready 4 quarts warmed flour ; in center of this 
put the light sponge, 1 cup shortening, IV2 cups sugar, 
salt to taste, % teaspoon each cinnamon and nutmeg, 
1 lb. each raisins and currants, which have been washed 
in warm water ; citron, if liked ; add milk enough to 
use all the flour, and work into a soft dough-like bread ; 
let rise over night in a warm place. (Potato added to 
sponge improve it.) Make in moon-shaped loaveS;, 
and when light, bake. 

Quincy, 111. Mrs. Wm. Balcke. 

Currant Loaf. — Piece of bread dough size of loaf 
of bread. Add 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 1 teaspoon 
cloves, 2 eggs, % cup lard or butter, 1 cup currants, 
1/2 cup, or cup, raisins ; 1 cup sugar, i/o teaspoon soda 
in hot water. 

Harpster, Idaho. Mrs. Charlotte Surridge. 

English Bath Buns. — 2 cakes Fleischmann 's yeast, 
% cup milk, scalded and cooled ; 1 tablespoonful sugar, 
V^ cup butter, melted ; 4 eggs, 4 cups sifted flour, % tea- 



BREAD 103 

spoonful salt, 5 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 cup almonds, 
chopped. Dissolve yeast and 1 tablespoonful sugar in 
lukewarm milk. Add butter, eggs, unbeaten ; flour 
gradually, and the salt, beating thoroughly. This 
mixture should be thick, but not stiff enough to handle. 
Cover and let rise in warm place 1^ hours, or until 
light. Sprinkle balance of sugar and almonds over top, 
mix very lightly, and drop into well-greased muffin 
pans. Cover and let rise until light, which should be 
in about % hour. Bake 15 to 20 minutes in a moder- 
ately hot oven. These buns should be rough in ap- 
pearance. 

Kuchen Lopf. — Take enough of your coffee cake 
dough to make a coft'ee cake. Add 2 eggs, beaten 
lightly ; % teaspoon cinnamon, I/2 teaspoon nutmeg, y^. 
cup raisins. Stir until like cake batter. Pour into a 
greased pan, let rise until about y^ again its size, and 
bake. 

Malinda Kriegsman. 

Light Bread Cake. — 2 pints of light bread dough, 
1 cup of sugar, % cup of butter and lard mixed, 3 eggs, 
1 tablespoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon cloves, % teaspoon 
nutmeg, 1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in 2 tablespoonfuls 
of sweet milk ; 1 cup of raisins, 1 cup of currants. Mix 
thoroughly with hands. Put in a greased pan. Let 
stand 1 hour before baking. Bake about 1 hour in a 
moderate oven. B. F. H. 

Madison Rolls. — 1 quart flour, 2 egg yolks, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, % pint liquid yeast, 3 heaping teaspoons 
sugar, piece of butter size of an egg, 2 large white po- 
tatoes, milk enough to make soft dough. Boil and 
mash potatoes, and cream them into butter and eggs. 
Work this smooth, add gradually flour, yeast, milk. 
Be careful not to get the dough too soft. Knead till 
light, put in well-greased crock, and place in warm 
place for 5 to 8 hours. When risen, turn on floured 
board and roll out an inch thick. Cut with small bis- 
cuit tin. Place rolls in greased pan: let rise 1 hour. 
Bake in quick oven. Ella H. Velde. 



104 BREAD 

Nut Bread. — % cup of scalded milk, y^ cup of 
water, I/2 tablespoon of lard, I/2 tablespoon of butter, 
11/2 tablespoons of molasses, % teaspoon salt, % cake 
compressed yeast, dissolved in 2 tablespoons of water ; 
1/2 cup of white flour, I/2 cup of entire wheat flour, 1/2 
cup of pecan nuts, % cup of candied orange peel. Make 
your sponge with the white flour, add the first 6 ingredi- 
ents and let rise ; then add nuts and orange peel, knead 
stiff with wheat flour, shape in loaf, and let rise again. 
Bake nearly 1 hour. 

Lincoln, 111. Mrs. Alvina Rembe. 

Nut Bread. — 1 egg, well-beaten; y^ cup sugar, 1 
cup milk, 1 cup nut meats, 214 cups flour, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, % teaspoon salt. Bake in loaf for 
about 45 minutes in moderate oven. Tena Janssen. 

Nut Bread. — 4 scant cups of flour, sifted; 4 level 
teaspoons of baking powder, 1 teaspoon of salt, ^ cup 
granulated sugar. Beat 1 egg, put II/2 cups of milk 
in it. Sift above together, put nuts in the flour, make 
a stiff batter, let rise 20 minutes ; let bake \y-2 hours. 
Do not have your oven too hot at the start. 

Springfield, 111. Mrs. Jess. 

Nut Bread (Loaf). — % cup sugar; 1 rounding tea- 
spoonful butter, 2 eggs (yolks and whites beaten sep- 
arately), 1 cup sweet milk, 1 level teaspoonful salt, 2 
cupfuls flour, sifted with 2 rounding teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder; 1 cupful chopped English walnut meats. 
Mix like a cake batter; put in a greased pan; set in 
warm place for 45 minutes to rise. Bake in a slow oven 
with grate in bottom of oven ; cover with paper. Bake 
for 45 minutes. Alice M. Weimer. 

Nut Bread. — y^. cup of sugar, 4 cups of sifted flour, 
4 teaspoons of baking powder, % teaspoon of salt. 
Sift these ingredients together and stir in one cup of 
chopped English walnuts. In another bowl beat 2 eggs 
in an overflowing cup of milk ; stir this in the first 
mixture, turn into 2 small buttered bread tins. Let 
stand 20 minutes, and bake ^ hour in moderate oven. 

Chicago, 111. Sadie Gadsden. 



BREAD 105 

Oat Meal Bread. — 21/2 cups oatmeal, 1/2 cup dark 
molasses, yeast foam — about % of a cake — a handful 
of sugar, salt. Cook oatmeal well done, and when 
lukewarm make sponge as for white bread, using white 
flour to stiffen with and roll with. Bake in moderate 
oven for an hour or hour and "a half. 

Mrs. John A. New. 

Oatmeal Bread. — 2 cups of oats, 1 tablespoon lard, 
1 teaspoon salt. Scald this with 3 cups boiling water 
and set aside until it cools. 14 cup syrup, 1 teaspoon 
baking soda. Mix and put in 1 pint of sponge, and 
thicken with flour. This makes 2 good-sized loaves. 

Mrs. L. J. Albertsen. 

Parker House Rolls. — 1 cake Fleischmann's yeast, 
1 pint milk, scalded and cooled ; 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
4 tablespoonfuls lard or butter, melted ; 3 pints of sifted 
flour, 1 teaspoonful salt. Dissolve yeast and sugar in 
lukewarm milk, add lard or butter and 1% pints of 
flour. Beat until perfectly smooth. Cover, and let 
rise in a warm place 1 hour, or until light. Then add 
remainder of flour, or enough to make a dough, and the 
salt. Knead well. Place in greased bowl. Cover, and 
let rise in a warm place for about II/2 hours, or until 
double in bulk. Roll out i/4 inch thick. Brush over 
lightly with butter, cut with 2-inch biscuit cutter, 
crease through center heavily with dull edge of knife, 
and fold over in pocket-book shape. Place in well- 
greased, shallow pans 1 inch apart. Cover, and let rise 
until light — about % of an hour. Bake 10 minutes in 
hot oven. 

Parker House Rolls. — 1 pint of milk, boiled and 
cooled ; piece of butter the size of an egg, 1 cup fresh 
yeast, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 pinch salt, 2 quarts sifted 
flour. Melt the butter in the warm milk ; add sugar, 
salt, and flour, and let it rise over night. Mix rather 
soft in the morning, adding enough flour to make the 
same stiffness as any biscuit dough ; roll out not more 
th^n 1/4 inch thick, cut out with a round cutter, spread 
soft butter over tops, and fold one half over the other 



106 BREAD 

by doubling it ; cover and keep warm until ready for 
the oven. Bake in a rather quick oven. 

JMes. D. F. Velde. 

Parker House Rolls. — Mix 2 cups flour, 2 level tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, V2 
teaspoonful salt, and sift twice. Work in 2 tablespoon- 
fuls butter with the tips of the fingers. Add gradually 
% cup of milk, mixing with a knife until of the con- 
sistency of a soft dough. Roll to Vs-i^ch thickness, then 
cut with a round or oval cutter, and crease in the 
center with the handle of a case knife, first dipped in 
flour. Brush one-half with melted butter, and fold 
over. Put in a pan y^ inch apart. Bake in a quick 
oven 15 minutes. Ella Meinen. 

Prune Kuchen. — 2 cups sifted flour, 2 tablespoons 
sugar, 14 teaspoon salt, 2 level teaspoon baking pow- 
der, 14 cup butter, 1 o,^^, % cup milk, I/2 pound prunes, 
3 tablespoons melted butter, 3 tablespoons sugar. Put 
through a sieve together, three times, the flour, sugar, 
salt and baking powder, then work in the butter. 
Beat the egg, add the milk and stir into the dry in- 
gredients. Turn into a shallow buttered pan and 
spread the dough evenly in the pan, have the prunes 
cooked tender, remove stones. Press the prunes skin 
side down into the top of dough. Brush over with 
the melted butter, dredge with sugar and cinnamon 
and bake about twenty minutes. Serve hot. 

Mrs. W. P. Herget. 

Prune Sauce. — Served with prune kuchen. V2 cup 
butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup prune pulp, white of 1 egg. 
Cream butter, add sugar, then gradually the mashed 
and sifted prunes and lastly the white of ^^^. 

Mrs. W. p. Herget. 

Rye Bread. — 1 cake compressed yeast in 1/2 cup 
warm water, 2 quarts rye flour, 1 quart wheat flour, 1 
quart water, 4 tablespoons syrup, 6 tablespoons lard or 
drippings, 1 teaspoon caraway seed ; mix and knead 
well. The dough should be very stiff; if needed, add 



BREAD 107 

more wheat flour. Let rise 2 hours and knead ag:ain ; 
let rise about V2 hour, then mold into 3 loaves and let 
rise V2 hour. Bake 1 hour. 

Mrs. Malmquist. 

StoUen, or Kloben. — Dissolve 3 yeast cakes in a pint 
of lukewarm milk; add a teaspoonful of sugar, and 
set in a warm place until the yeast rises to the top. 
Then add 3 cupfuls of fiour and 1 teaspoonful of salt, 
and mix into a soft batter. Cover, and set in a warm 
place to get very light. Meanwhile take 1 cupful of 
butter and wash in cold water to extract the salt. Dry, 
and beat to a cream with 1 cupful of powdered sugar. 
Then add 4 eggs, 1 at a time, beating vigorously be- 
tween each egg. Add the grated rind of 1 lemon. Add 
this to the light sponge with sufficient flour to make a 
soft dough, and knead until it stops sticking to the 
hands. Cover, and set aside again until it doubles its 
bulk. Prepare % lb. of seeded raisins, i/^ lb. of cur- 
rants, and 1/4 lb. of thinly-shaved citron, and set in 
a warm place until the dough is light. Then roll the 
dough out on the moulding board, sprinkle with the 
fruit, roll up, and knead for a few moments ; then 
cover again, and let it rise from 10 to 15 minutes. 
Grease 2 long, shallow pans ; divide the dough into 
equal parts, roll each one in ar oblong sheet an inch in 
thickness, double over, and lay in the buttered pans. 
Cover and let them rise until very light, then bake in 
a moderate oven. 

Granite City, 111. Olivia Magaret Kottmeier. 

Schnitz-Brot. — 1 lb. seedless raisins, 1 lb. currants, 
1 lb. sliced citron, 1 lb. prunes, boiled (with 1 cup 
juice) ; 1 lb. of any other kind of dried fruit, such as 
pears or peaches ; 1 lb. or more of chopped nuts, 1 cup 
molasses ; various spices to taste. Make just as other 
bread, only use double quantity of yeast, and you may 
take a little more molasses or sugar, if you like it 
sweeter. Bake in small loaves slowly, an hour or 
more. This makes from 16 to 18 loaves, and keeps a 
month or two. 

Emden, 111. Anna Steen Zimmer. 



108 BREAD 

Winter Biscuit. — 1 quart milk, 1 cup lard. Place 
on stove, and bring to a boil ; add 1 teaspoon salt ; pour 
into crock and let cool to lukewarm ; add 1 yeast cake, 
dissolved in I/2 cup warm water ; flour enough to make 
stiff; then knead on board (until stiff as light bread, 
before you put it in pans). Put in crock in warm place; 
cover. In morning, work down, and put in a very cool 
place ; cut off piece of dough and roll out until 1/2 inch 
thick, cut with biscuit cutter, place in pan, grease on 
top, and place over steaming tea kettle 15 minutes. 
Bake in hot oven. The dough must become chilled 
before using. 

Mrs. John Rust. 

Zwieback (German Rusk). — Take a quart of good 
sponge made with either compressed or hard yeast, and 
place in a gallon crock. Cream % cup sugar with 3 
tablespoons lard and butter ; add 3 whole eggs and 1 
teaspoon of salt ; mix all thoroughly, and add to sponge 
with 1 cup of warm water. Add flour to mould to a 
smooth, soft dough. Remove to warm place for about 
3 hours, then put on board, mould lightly into small 
biscuits. Place in large dripping pan, and, when fully 
risen, bake in a moderate oven 20 minutes. When cold, 
cut into halves, and place, with crust side down, in a 
moderate oven, with door open, to dry ; when dry, close 
door and toast a nice brown. 

Mrs. E. B. Sanborn. 



HOT BREADS, BREAKFAST CAKES, 
DOUGHNUTS, SHORTCAKES. 

"Dinner may be pleasant; 
So may social tea; 
But yet, methinks the breakfast 
Is best of all the three. " — Anon. 

Baking Powder Biscuits. — 2 cups of flour, 2 table- 
spoonfuls lard, 4 teaspoonfuls baking powder, % cup 
milk and water together, 1 teaspoonful salt. Sift flour, 
baking powder, and salt together. Rub in lard and 
add milk and water. Roll on buttered board about 1 
inch thick. Cut out and bake. 

Mrs. Christ Ringwald. 

Baking Powder Biscuits. — 3 cups of flour, 3 level 
teaspoons of baking powder, i/4 to I/2 cup of shorten- 
ing, about 1 cup of milk, 1 teaspoon of salt. Sift to- 
gether flour, baking powder, and salt ; then work in 
shortening ; then mix to a dough with liquid ; knead 
lightly and roll into a sheet and cut. Bake about 15 
minutes. 

Louise Smith. 

Baking Powder Biscuits. — 1 quart flour, 3 heaping 
teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt, lard size 
of an egg, I/2 teaspoon soda in 1 pint sour milk, add 
water if needed, enough to make a soft dough. Roll 
and cut with biscuit cutter. Bake from 12 to 15 
minutes. 

Mrs. Urban J. Albertsen. 

Biscuits (Drop). — 2 cups of flour, 4 teaspoons baking 
powder, i/o teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons fat, % cup 
milk. Mix the dry ingredients ; then work the fat 
into the mixture with the tips of the fingers or cut 
in with knives. With a knife mix the liquid with the 
dry ingredients. The mixture is of proper consistency 
when it may be dropped from the spoon without spread- 

110 



HOT BREADS, BREAKFAST CAKES, ETC. Ill 

ing. Drop by spoonfuls into oiled muffin tins. Bake 
in hot oven from 12 to 15 minutes. 

Buckwheat Cakes. — To start: At noon soak I/2 
cake of yeast foam in about 1 cup water. Make a 
batter of this and let rise until evening. Then use 1 
part buckwheat flour to 1 part wheat flour. Add a 
little salt and 2 tablespoons syrup. Let rise over night, 
and in the morning add 1/2 teaspoon soda, dissolved in 
a little warm water. 

Chocolate MuflEins. — 1 scant cup sugar, l^/^ cups 
flour, 1/^ cup cold water, 2 tablespoons butter, 3 table- 
spoons cocoa, 1 teaspoon baking powder, I/2 teaspoon 
vanilla. Cream butter and sugar, sift cocoa and bak- 
ing powder with flour. Bake in muffin pans 20 
minutes. Mrs. Florence Ryan. 

Corn Bread. — 1 cup wheat flour, 2 cups yellow corn 
meal (Blue Ribbon), 3 level teaspoons baking powder, 
2 tablespoons sugar, I/2 teaspoon salt, 1 egg, beaten 
light ; lYz cups milk, 2 tablespoons butter or lard. Sift 
flour, meal, salt, sugar, and baking powder several 
times. In another dish combine egg, butter, and milk. 
Stir in the flour, prepared as above, and beat until 
smooth. Let stand a few minutes. Bake in a moderate 
oven. Ulricka Janssen. 

Corn Bread. — 1 cup flour, 1 cup corn meal, 1 egg, 

1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 

2 tablespoons melted butter, 1 tablespoon sugar. 

Mrs. E. R. Peyton. 

Corn Bread. — 2I/2 cups of corn meal, 1 cup of sour 
milk, 1/2 teaspoon baking powder, a pinch of soda, 1 
egg, a pinch of salt, 1 tablespoon of hot lard. 

Mrs. Katherine Kumpf. 

Corn Meal Cakes. — 1 cup flour, I/2 cup corn meal, 
14 cup sugar, I/2 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon soda with 1 
cup sour milk, or 2 teaspoons baking powder to 1 cup 
sweet milk ; 1 egg, 1 tablespoon butter or drippings. 
Mix dry ingredients thoroughly in order given. 

Louise Brooks. 



112 HOT BREADS, BREAKFAST CAKES, ETC. 

Crullers. — 1 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 3 eggs, 3 table- 
spoons melted butter, i/2 teaspoon nutmeg, 2 table- 
spoons baking powder. Enough flour to roll it out. 
Cut, and fry in hot lard. 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. Fred Grondenberg. 

Date Muffins. — 1^ cup butter, l^ cup sugar. 1 egg, 
% cup milk, 2 cups flour. 3 level teaspoons baking 
powder, I/2 teaspoon salt, scant % pound dates. Cream 
butter, add sugar and eggs, beaten light. Sift three 
times together, flour, baking powder and salt and add 
these to first mixture, alternately with the milk. Beat 
thoroughly and add dates, stoned and cut in pieces. 
Bake in a hot oven in a well buttered muffin pan. 

Mrs. W. p. Herget. 

For Dougchnuts. — When the fat is of the right heat 
it will cease to bubble, and be perfectly still. For 
those who do not like greasy doughnuts, use only beef 
suet, which is clean and healthy. Get from the meat 
market nice, clean, whole leaves, which cut up in small 
pieces ; put in kettle and render like lard. Doughnuts 
thus cooked are more digestible and of a better flavor 
than when cooked in lard. 

Doughnuts. — 1 cup sugar, yolks of 3 eggs; cream 
sugar and yolks of eggs together; add 3 tablespoons 
melted butter, 1 cup sweet milk ; then add the stiffened 
whites of 3 eggs, 2 heaping teaspoons baking powder ; 
flour enough to make soft dough. 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. P. A. Bergner. 

Doughnuts. — 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon melted 
butter, 1 cup sour milk, % teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon 
nutmeg, 1% teaspoons baking powder, little salt, flour 
to roll. Beat eggs, add sugar, salt, melted butter, sour 
milk with soda dissolved in it, nutmeg and baking 
powder, add enough flour to roll and fry in hot lard. 

Malinda Kreigsman. 

Doughnuts, New England. — Scant cup granulated 
sugar, rounding tablespoon lard, cup full sweet milk, 
2 eggs, 1/4 teaspoon salt, y^ teaspoon nutmeg, 4 cup 



HOT BREADS, BREAKFAST CAKES, ETC. 113 

fulls of flour, 4 rounding teaspoons of baking powder, 
sifted with 2 cups of the flour. Mix sugar and lard, 
add the well beaten eggs and mix thoroughly; then 
add other ingredients, first beating in the baking 
powder with two cups of the flour and then adding 
the rest of the flour. Roll out i/^ inch thick, cut, and 
fry in hot lard. 

Mrs. Charles Schaefer. 

Fritters. — 1 pint sweet milk, 2 beaten eggs, 1 quart 
flour, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, and salt to taste. 
Fry a golden brown in deep fat, and serve with maple 
syrup. 1 cupful of apples can be added to the above 
batter, if desired, Mrs. Henry Gebhard. 

Fritters. — Beat the yolks of 2 eggs; add 1 table- 
spoonful sugar and 1 cup warm milk; then add II/2 
cups flour, with 1 teaspoonful of baking powder ; lastly 
add the whites, beaten to a stiff froth. Drop by spoon- 
fuls in smoking, hot fat. Drain, then sprinkle with 
powdered sugar. Miss Sena Abrahams. 

Flying Leaves. — 1 egg, pinch of salt, 2 tablespoons 
sweet cream, put in flour and work as stiff as noodle 
dough. Roll out thin as noodles, cut in 3 or 4-inch 
squares, drop in skillet of hot lard ; when done, sprinkle 
with powdered sugar and cinnamon. 

Mrs. Louis Wieburg. 

Fried Cakes. — 1 lb. flour, % cup sugar, 14 lb. butter, 
3 or 4 eggs, 1 teacup milk, 1 cake compressed yeast, 
salt to taste. Have flour in earthen dish large enough 
to work dough; soak yeast in milk, and stir in center 
of flour, using just enough flour to make soft dough; 
let rise, add butter, egg, sugar, and salt, and work 
rest of flour to this, working for 1^ hour. Let rise 
again until very light, turn on warm bake board, draw 
down towards you until 1 inch thick — do not use rolling 
pin; cut any size, put on warm board again, and let 
rise. Bake in deep lard with cover. After baked, 
sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Mrs. H. p. Weyhrich. 



114 HOT BREADS, BREAKFAST CAKES, ETC. 

Gems, Bran. — 2 cups of bran, 1 cup of flour, 1 tea- 
spoon soda, 11/2 cups of sour milk, 14 cup of butter, a 
pinch of salt, 3 tablespoons molasses. Bake in moder- 
ate oven in gem pans. 

Mrs. Mary Woost. 

Gems, Graham. — 2 eggs, beaten ; IV2 cups milk, 1 
teaspoon salt, 6 cups graham flour, li/o cups water, 
1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 heaping tea- 
spoons baking powder. 

Mrs. Mae Beath. 

Gems. — 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 
4 teaspoons sugar, butter the size of a walnut, 2 eggs, 
milk to make a nice batter, not too thin. Bake 20 
minutes. 

Mrs. Urban Albertsen. 

Graham Griddle Cakes. — 2 cups flour, 2 level tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, 1 cup graham flour, 1 table- 
spoonful sugar, 2 eggs, well-beaten; a little salt, milk 
enough to make a thin batter. 

Mrs. Henry Van Horn. 

Hard Sauce. — Cream 14 cup butter, add gradually, 

1 cup powdered sugar, 4 tablespoons boiling water, 
one at a time. Beat for 5 minutes, add 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla and beaten egg white. Put in serving dish, 
and set in a cool place. (The water and egg whites 
may be omitted.) 

Mrs. a. a. Sipfle. 

Muffins. — 2 cups flour, 2 level teaspoons baking 
powder, I/2 teaspoon salt, 2 eggs, 1 cup milk, 1 table- 
spoon melted butter. Take the flour and mix well with 
baking powder and salt. Add the beaten yolks to the 
milk, and then put in the butter, and mix all with the 
flour. Fold in the beaten whites of eggs. Put im- 
mediately into hot gem pans, and bake about 20 min- 
utes. Makes 16. 

Peoria, 111. Katherine Velde. 

Muffins. — 1 egg, 1 cup of milk, 2 teaspoons sugar, 

2 cups flour, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder. Cora Albertsen. 



HOT BREADS, BEEAKFAST CAKES, ETC. 115 

Muffins, Good.— ^A cup butter, i/4 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 
1 cup milk, 3 even teaspoons baking powder, 1/4 tea- 
spoon salt, 2 cups flour. Rub butter to a cream, add 
sugar gradually, and beat light. Beat eggs to a foam ; 
beat milk to a foam : add this to the butter and sugar ; 
lastly flour and baking powder. 

Mason City, 111. Mrs. O. F. Weber. 

Pancakes, Eggless. — Take 2 cups corn meal, 2 cups 
flour, salt, mix to a smooth batter with half sweet milk 
and water, a pinch of saleratus, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. This makes nice, light cakes when eggs are 
scarce. Mrs. Josephine Junker. 

Pancakes, Pumpkin. — To each cup of pumpkin allow 
1 beaten egg, 1 cup of milk, salt and pepper, and 
enough prepared pancake flour to make a batter as 
for ordinary pancakes. Mrs. Edward Wetzel. 

Pancakes. — 1 egg, 1 cup of flour, I/2 cup sour milk, 
y^ teaspoon soda, V2 teaspoon baking powder, and 
sweet milk to make a thin batter. Add salt to taste. 
Beat the egg, then add soda to sour milk, and baking 
powder to the flour; then the milk or water. 

Mrs. Charles Schaefer. 

Potato Pancakes. — Take 8 large potatoes, peel and 
grate them ; put in 4 well-beaten eggs, 1/2 teaspoon 
salt, and flour enough to make a nice batter. Bake as 
you would any other pancakes. 

Mrs. Minnie Alfs. 

Pop-overs. — 2 eggs, % teaspoon salt, 1 cup milk 
(scant), 1 cup flour. Beat eggs without separating, and 
add milk. Carefully pour this into the flour, stirring 
"constantly. A Dover egg-beater may be used to obtain 
a smooth batter. Turn into greased, hissing-hot gem 
pans, and bake in a moderately quick oven about 35 
minutes. If they fall when taken from oven, they have 
not been sufficiently baked. Mrs. A. A. Sipfle. 

Short Cake. — 2 cups of flour, % cup butter, 1/0 cup 
sugar, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Mix soft with milk, 
and bake. 

Springfield, 111. Mrs. Jess. 



116 HOT BREADS, BREAKFAST CAKES, ETC. 

Short Cake, Banana. — 21/0 cups sifted flour, 21/2 
level teaspoons baking powder, y^ teaspoon salt, 2 
teaspoons sugar, I/2 cup shortening, % cup milk. Mix 
all dry ingredients, work in shortening, and stir in milk. 
Bake in deep tin, putting in half mixture, then spread 
on melted butter, then add the rest ; when baked, 
divide where buttered, and put together with following, 
prepared 1 hour before : 6 large bananas, sliced ; juice 
of 1 lemon, 1 cup sugar. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Frank Mulvey. 

Shortcake, Orange. — 1 o.^^, 1 teacup sugar, 1 table- 
spoonful butter, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder. Bake in 2 pans. 6 oranges, sliced 
fine with 1 cup sugar. When cake is done, lay on 
platter and spread oranges on inside and top, and 
cover the whole with whipped cream. 

Mrs. John Blume. 

Short Cake, Strawberry. — 2 cups of flour, 1/3 cup 
of butter, 1 egg, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon 
salt, % cup milk. Mix quickly, and divide carefully; 
roll, and place in a round pan ; butter, and place the 
other layer on top. Bake in quick oven 20 minutes. 
Cover Avith sugared berries when ready to serve. 

Short Cake, Strawberry. — 2 cups flour rubbed into 
2 tablespoons of butter, I/4 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoon 
sugar and 2 teaspoon baking powder sifted with flour, 
1 beaten %^^, 1 cup sweet milk, add to the flour and 
butter, stir to batter, put in buttered pan and bake 
in a quick oven and serve with crushed strawberries 
or other fruits. Louise Velde. 

Table Syryp. — 2 cups granulated sugar, 1 cup boil- 
ing water; stir until sugar is dissolved; a little flavor- 
ing, if liked ; a few drops of mapleine will make it 
very good. Let stand over night. Keep covered and 
it will not crust. Mrs. Millard Hiett. 

Waffles. — 1 pint flour, 1 pint milk, y^. cup melted 
butter, 3 eggs, beaten separately; 1/1j teaspoon salt, 2 



HOT BREADS, BREAKFAST CAKES, ETC. 117 

teaspoons bakinp: poAvder. Mix all together; just 

before baking, put in the baking powder and beat hard. 

Peoria, 111. Anna Zimmer. 

Waffles. — 11/4 cups flour, 1 small heaping teaspoon 
baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt, 4 eggs, beaten sep- 
arately ; 1% cups sour milk, with i/o teaspoon soda 
stirred in to sweeten ; 2 tablespoons melted butter. 
Mix dry ingredients, beat egg yolks, add to milk, stir 
in, fold in stiffly-beaten whites ; add melted butter ; 
bake on a well-greased, very hot waffle iron. This 
amount makes 6 large waffles. Sweet milk can be used, 
omitting soda. 

St. Paul, Minn. Mrs. John L. Hinners. 

Wheat Cakes (for small family.) — 1 cup flour, 1 
teaspoon baking powder, i/^ teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon 
sugar (level), 2 tablespoons melted butter, 1 egg, 1 cup 
milk (scant). Mix all the dry ingredients, beat the egg 
until very light, pour milk into the egg, and then pour 
over dry ingredients. When the batter is thoroughly 
mixed, beat it till very light, and fry in an ungreased 
griddle. 

Mrs. Phil. H. Sipfle. 



SANDWICHES 

"Much may be said on both sides." 

Chicken Sandwiches. — Take cold chicken and chop 
fine ; then add some stuffed olives, chopped fine ; mix 
with dressing made from 2 raw eggs, 1 tablespoon 
butter, 4 tablespoons vinegar, 1 saltspoon salt, 1 tea- 
spoon mustard, cooked in double boiler till thick; and 
mix with chicken till thin enough to spread. 

Mrs. 0. A. Smith. 

Cream Cheese Sandwich. — 1 cream cheese, 14 pack- 
age dates, 1 dozen raisins. Run dates and raisins 
through the food chopper, and mix with the cheese. 
Then spread on thinly-sliced bread, either graham or 
white, 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. Alma Magaret Traeger. 

Date Filling for Sandwiches. — 1 lb. dates and 1 lb. 
figs, with 2 cups walnut meats ; run through food 
chopper, mixed with whipped cream to consistency for 
spreading. 

Mrs. James Rahn. 

Fruit Sandwiches. — 1 lb. raisins, 1 lb. dates, stoned; 
1/2 lb. English walnut meats. Grind, and mix with juice 
and pulp of 2 lemons and 2 oranges. Pack in jar, and 
use for sandwiches. Put fruit on 1 slice and butter 
on other, and press 2 together. Best made of brown 
or nut bread. Fruit mixture will keep indefinite time 
if kept in cool place. 

Jacksonville, 111. Winifred Wackerle. 

Lettuce Sandwiches. — Put fresh, crisp lettuce leaves, 
washed and thoroughly dried, between thin slices of 
buttered bread, having a little cream dressing or 
mayonnaise on each leaf. Serve immediately, as the 
lettuce will wilt. 

Peoria, 111. Edna Thomas. 

119 



120 SANDWICHES 

SANDWICH FILLINGS 

Chopped tongue and hard-boiled eggs, seasoned with 
salt, cayenne, and mustard, and moistened with cream. 

Grated cheese and chopped, hard-boiled eggs, mixed 
with butter and seasoned with salt and pepper. 

Thin slices of chicken and ham, with mustard be- 
tween. 

Thin slices of pork or veal, seasoned with salt, 
pepper, and mustard, covered with thin slices of pickles, 
cut lengthwise. 

Shrimps, rubbed to a paste with butter; seasoned 
with salt, cayeni;ie, and tarragon. 

Chopped cold turkey and celery, seasoned with 
salt and pepper, and mixed with chopped, hard-boiled 
eggs. 

Chopped ham, mixed with creamed butter and red 
pepper, and mustard to season. Chopped, hard-boiled 
eggs may be added. 

Chopped water cress and hard-boiled eggs rubbed 
to a paste with butter, and seasoned with salt, pepper, 
and lemon juice. 

Chopped, cooked beef tongue and boiled mushrooms, 
seasoned with mustard. 

Thin slices of bananas, spreading the bread with 
mayonnaise. 

Nasturtium petals seasoned lightly with salt. A 
few young leaves may be added. 

Equal parts of Swiss cheese and chopped English 
walnuts, seasoned with salt and cayenne. 

Roasted peanuts, pounded to a paste, and mixed 
with butter or mayonnaise. 

Chopped raisins and English walnuts, mixed up with 
a little thick cream. 

Chopped pecans, moistened Avith wine. 

Chopped olives and peanut butter, seasoned with 
lemon juice and salt. 

Tuna Fish Filling.— 1 can Tuna Fish, 2 hard-boiled 
eggs chopped. Mix with mayonnaise. 



SANDWICHES 121 

Ham Sandwich Filling. — % pound boiled ham, I/2 
pound butter, one cup mayonnaise, ^ cup ground 
peanuts, 1 small stock celery, cream butter. Add 
mayonnaise, ham and peanuts, also chop celery and 
cream well. Spread between bread which needs no 
extra butter. Enough filling for one Pullman loaf. 

Mrs. Frank Heckman. 



GINGER BREADS 

Ginger Bread. — y<2. cup shortening (lard or butter) ; 
mix with i/^ cup brown sugar; add % cup of syrup, 2 
teaspoonfuls of ginger, 1 teaspoon soda, 21/2 cups flour. 
Stir all well together. Then add % cup of boiling 
water. Again beat well. Mrs. Will White. 

Ginger Bread. — 1 cup of sugar, 1 scant cup lard, 1 
cup of syrup, pinch of salt, 2 teaspoons of ginger, 1 cup 
of sour milk, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon of soda, dissolved in part 
of milk; 31/2 cups of flour. 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. Charles Thomas. 

Soft Ginger Bread. — Stir together 1 cup of molasses, 
2 eggs, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon ginger, 1 tablespoon 
butter. Pour over this y^ cup boiling water. Add 
flour enough to make a thin batter. Bake in tins about 
an inch deep in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. H. E. Harvey. 

Ginger Bread. — % cup of butter, 1 cup of brown 
sugar, i. cup molasses, 1 cup sour milk, 4 cups of flour, 
1 cup raisins, 2 eggs, 2 level teaspoons soda, spices to 
taste, 2 teaspoons ginger. 

Mrs. Henry Zuckweiler. 

Ginger Bread. — 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of molasses, 
1 cup of sour milk, 1 cup of lard, y^ teaspoon soda, 2 
eggs, 1 teaspoon each of ginger, allspice, cloves, cinna- 
mon. Mix with flour to make soft dough. 

Lincoln, 111. Mrs. R. Rithaber. 

White Ginger Bread. — Measure 4 cupfuls of flour, 
sifted before measuring; 1 cupful of butter, 2 cupfuls 
sugar, and 1 cup of sweet milk ; 2 eggs, I/2 teaspoonful 
of cinnamon and nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of ginger, 2 
heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Rub the flour 
and butter together until they are reduced to crumbs ; 
then add the sugar, and rub until the mixture is once 
more crumbly. Measure out 2 cupfuls of the crumbs, 

123 



124 GINGER BREADS 

and set in a cool place. Into what remains of the 
crumbs add 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
cinnamon, nutmeg, and ginger. Stir well together, 
then add the 2 well-beaten eggs and the milk. Butter 
a pan, measure out 1 cupful of the crumbs that were set 
aside, and spread them evenly over the bottom of the 
pan ; then spread the batter over them, and spread the 
rest of the crumbs on top, and bake in a moderate oven. 
This is a delicious, rich ginger bread, and is white in 
color, 

Mrs. George Bernshausen. 



COOKIES AND WAFERS 

O weary mothers, mixing dough, 
Don't you wish that food would grow? 
Your lips would smile, I know, to see 
A cookie bush or a doughnut tree. 

Cookie Dough Made the Night Before and put in 

cold place over nigrlit will make much richer cookies. 

Hints for Cutting Cookies. — In making cookies do 
not roll and cut in the old way but take your batch 
of dough form in a long roll and cut in slices with 
a sharp knife. Then bake. 

Blatter Kuchen.— To 1 lb. of cold butter, add 1 lb. 
flour, and very little water. Mix like pie crust. Roll, 
and cut like other cookies ; dip in the unbeaten white of 
an egg, and then in granulated sugar. 

Miss Sena Abrahams. 

Brownies.— 1 cup sugar, i/^ cup flour, 2 eggs, 1 cup 
nuts, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1/2 cup butter, 2 squares choco- 
late. Cream sugar and butter, add the eggs, flour and 
nut meats dredged in a little flour, then vanilla and 
melted chocolate. Pour in greased pan to a thick- 
ness of % inch and bake 25 minutes. Cut in squares. 

Malinda Kreigsman. 

Cinnamon Cookies. — 1 large cup brown sugar, 1 cup 
white sugar, 1 large cup of shortening (half butter 
and half lard) ; 1 egg, 1 cup of sour milk, heaping tea- 
spoon soda, 2 teaspoons cinnamon ; use enough flour 
to roll out very thin, and sprinkle a little sugar on top. 

Mrs. John Velde. 

Chocolate Bars. — 1/2 cup batter, 1 cup sugar, 1 square 
chocolate, 2 eggs, % cup flour, little vanilla, % cup 
pecans or walnut meats. Cream butter and sugar, 
add well beaten eggs and melted chocolate. Beat 
well and then add flour, vanilla and nut meats, dredged 
in part of flour. Bake in sheet and cut in bars when 
baked. 

Louise Velde. 

126 



COOKIES AND WAFERS 127 

Chocolate Cookies. — 1 cup granulated sugar, 1 egg, 
% cup butter, ^ cup milk, i/2 teaspoon soda, 1^^ 
cups flour, 1 cup nuts, 1 cup raisins, 3 squares of choco- 
late, 2 cups flour. If not stiff enough, add more flour. 
Drop in spaces large enough to let them spread ; mix as 
for cake dough. 

Mrs. Albert Hodgkins. 

Chocolate Cookies. — % cup butter, 2 cups light- 
brown sugar, 1 cup sour milk, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon soda, 
3 cups flour, 1 cup melted chocolate, 1 cup raisins, 1 
cup currants. Mix ingredients in order given, and 
drop on buttered tins; bake in hot oven. 

Mrs. Walter Fluegel. 

Chocolate Wafers. — 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup granu- 
lated sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 egg, 1 cup grated choco- 
late, y2 cup milk, Yo lb. nut meat, 1 teaspoon baking 
powder. Use enough flour to make a stiff dough. 
Sprinkle board with powdered sugar and flour; then 
roll thin, and cut to size desired. Bake in moderate 
oven. 

Mrs. H. D. Janssen. 

Cocoanut Cream Cookies. — 2 eggs, beaten light; 1 
cup sugar, 1 cup thick cream, 1 cup cocoanut, 1 scant 
teaspoonful salt, 3 cups sifted flour, 3 level teaspoons- 
ful baking powder, cocoanut and nut meats. Sift to- 
gether 3 times the flour, salt, and baking powder. To 
the eggs add the sugar, cream, cocoanut, and the flour 
mixture. Roll out the soft dough 14 i^ich thick. 
Sprinkle with cocoanut, pressing same in lightly. Cut 
in rounds, and in center of each press ^ a nut meat. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

Tremont, 111. Miss Jennie Fluegel. 

Cocoanut Drop Cakes. — 2 cups flour, 1% teaspoons 
baking powder, % teaspoon salt, % cup grated cocoa- 
nut, % cup sugar, 1 egg, I/2 cup butter, % cup milk. 
Sift together the flour, salt, and baking powder; rub 
in the butter; then add the sugar and cocoanut. Mix 
to a stiff dough with the milk and the egg well-beaten. 



128 COOKIES AND WAFERS 

Drop by spoonfuls on a greased baking pan. Bake 
about 15 minutes in a moderately hot oven. 

Mrs. Ellis Buchanan. 

Cookies. — 1 cup half butter and lard, 2 cups sugar, 
2 eggs, good Yo cup sour milk, scant tablespoon soda; 
cinnamon and nutmeg to suit taste : flour enough to 
roll. 

Mrs. Camp Speaker. 

Cookies. — 1 cup sugar, % cup butter and lard mixed ; 
4 tablespoons water, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 2 cups 
flour, 2 eggs. 

Mrs. John Frhy. 

Cookies. — 3 well-beaten eggs, 2 cups light-bro^vn 
sugar, 1 cup either lard or butter, 2 tablespoons vine- 
gar, 1 tablespoon extract of lemon, 1 rounded teaspoon 
of soda, 1 tablespoon water (hot), to dissolve soda in. 
Mix soft as you can, and bake in a quick oven. You 
can use all lard, or half lard and half butter. If you 
use lard, put in a little salt. 

Mrs. Ellen Rust. 

Cookies. — 3 cups sugar, 1% cups of lard, 1 teaspoon 
salt, 3 eggs, 1 cup sour milk, 1 small teaspoon soda, 
dissolved in the sour milk ; flavoring to suit. Flour 
enough to roll. 

Mrs. Ada Mattheessen. 

Corn Flake Cookies. — 1 cup of light-brown sugar, 
1/2 cup of butter, I/2 cup of lard, 2 eggs, 1 cup of sweet 
milk, % teaspoon of soda, 2 cups of flour, 1 cup of 
raisins, 2 cups of corn flakes, 2 teaspoons of baking 
powder. Cream sugar, butter, and lard; add the eggs; 
dissolve the soda in the milk, then add flour, raisins, 
corn flakes, and baking powder. Drop from a spoon 
and bake in a hot oven. 

^ Mrs. J. W, Austin. 

Corn Flake Cookies. — 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup nut 
meat, whites of 2 eggs, a little salt and three scant 
cups of corn flake ; drop in buttered pan and bake. 

Mrs. Arthur Hinners. 



COOKIES AND WAFERS 129 

Dutch Cookies. — 2 cupfuls sugar, 1 cupful butter, 
2 eggs, 1 cupful sour cream, 1 even teaspoon soda, 1 
teaspoon vanilla, roll out thin, and sprinkle over the 
top with sugar, mixed with cinnamon ; roll the pin 
lightly over the top ; bake in a quick oven. 

Mason City, 111. Mrs. 0. F. Weber. 

Drop Cookies. — 1 cup sugar, 1 cup lard, 1 cup 
molasses, 3 eggs, y^ teaspoon cloves, % teaspoon ginger, 
1 cup hot water, 2 teaspoons soda, dissolved in water ; 
1 cup raisins or currants, or I/2 cup of each; 5 cups of 
flour. Drop them off of a teaspoon. 

Miss Emma Sipfle. 

Date Cookies. — 1 lb, black dates, 1 cup English 
walnuts, chopped fine ; whites of 4 eggs, 1 cup pow- 
dered sugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, 1 teaspoonful 
cracker meal. Bake slowly. 

Denver, Colo. Mrs. John P. Look. 

Date Bars. — 1 cup granulated sugar ; 3 eggs ; 1 cup 
nuts ; 1 lb. dates ; 1 cup flour ; 1 teaspoon baking pow- 
der ; V^ teaspoon vanilla ; a pinch of salt ; 3 tablespoons 
boiling water. Cream yplks of eggs and sugar to- 
gether; add nuts, dates, flour and baking powder, 
vanilla, salt, and boiling water ; last add the beaten 
whites of eggs. Bake in moderate oven ; cut in bars 
and roll in powdered sugar. 

Miss Louise Velde. 

Filled Cookies. — 1 cup sugar, y^ cup shortening (part 
lard and part butter), 1 t^^, half cup milk, 2i/^ cups 
flour, more sometimes, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, 
1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Filling. — 1 cup raisins, dates or figs, % cup sugar, 
% cup water, 1 level tablespoon flour. Cook together 
until thick, spread between 2 cookies and bake. 

Mrs. George Eldredge. 

Fruit Cookies. — 2 cups of sugar, 1 scant cup of 
lard or butter, y^ cup of water or sour milk, 3 eggs, 4 
cups of flour, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup English walnuts, % 
teaspoon cinnamon, 14 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon soda. 



130 COOKIES AND WAFERS 

Chop or grind raisins and nuts. Drop from spoon. 
Bake in a hot oven. 

Anchor, 111. Mrs. John Nafziger. 

Fruit Cookies. — 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, butter size of 
an egg, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, i/o teaspoonful cloves, 
pinch of salt. Stir egg, sugar, butter, and spices to- 
gether. Then add y^ cup currants, 1 cup raisins, 
chopped fine; 1 cup sour milk, in which 1 teaspoon 
of soda has been dissolved. Stir in enough flour to 
make a stiff dough. Before adding flour, add 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder in the flour. Drop by spoonfuls 
in greased pans, and bake in moderate oven. These 
cookies will keep a long time. 

Mrs. Will White. 

Frosted Creams. — 1 cup each of New Orleans mo- 
lasses, brown sugar, lard, and cold water; 3 cups of 
flour, sifted; 1 teaspoonful each of soda, cinnamon, 
and ginger ; a little salt, and the yolks of 2 eggs. Spread 
the dough about i^ of an inch thick in a bread pan, 
and bake. When it is done, spread frosting over top 
and cut in squares. 

Ord, Neb. Mrs. Eva Adolph Barkmeyer. 

Ginger Cookies. — Put 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of 
baking soda into 2 teacups of molasses (New Orleans 
is best), and stir until the molasses foams; then add 1 
cup of sweet milk, 1 cup of melted butter (just 
softened, not hot), ginger to taste, and flour enough to 
make a lump of dough that will work like pie dough. 
Roll thin. Bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. Frank Heckman. 

Ginger Cakes, Old-Fashioned. — 1 scant cup of sugar, 
14 cup shortening, 1 cup molasses, I/2 teaspoon cinna- 
mon and cloves, y^ teaspoon ginger, 1 teaspoon salt, 
2 level teaspoons baking soda, dissolved in 1 cup cold 
water. Add enough flour to make quite a thick bat- 
ter, and drop into gem pans. 

Elma H. Smith. 

Ging'er Cookies. — 1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 
cup lard, 2 eggs, 1 cup of sour milk, in which has been 



COOKIES AND WAFERS 131 

dissolved a heaping teaspoonful of soda. Add 1 tea- 
spooufnl each of cinnamon, ginger, allspice, and nut- 
meg. Flour enough to make a soft dough. 

San Jose, 111. Mrs. A. C. Jacobs. 

Ginger Creams. — 3 eggs (reserve the white for 
icing), 2 cups sugar, 1 cup shortening, 1 cup New 
Orleans molasses, 1 pint sour milk, 3 large teaspoons 
soda, 2 teaspoons ginger, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, flour 
to roll rather soft; cut in squares, bake in moderate 
oven ; when cool, cover with the icing made as follows : 
1% cups sugar, % cup water ; boil until it threads ; 
add the beaten whites of 3 eggs. 

San Jose, 111. Mrs. Agnes Frey Van Beuning. 

Molasses Cookies. — 1 cup good Orleans molasses, 
1 cup brown sugar, % cup of lard and butter, 1 table- 
spoonful of ginger, a little salt. Let this come to a 
boil. When cool, add 2 eggs, beaten lightly, 1 table- 
spoonful of soda, dissolved in a little boiling water, 
flour enough to roll. 

Delavan, 111. Mrs. J. H. Perry. 

Honey Cookies. — 1 quart honey, 14 lb. butter, 31/4 
lbs. flour, yolks 3 eggs, 1 ounce soda, 1 pinch of alum. 
Melt butter, dissolve soda in hot water; make dough 
at night, and let stand until morning. Bake in sheets, 
and cut in squares after it is baked. Ice the cakes 
as you want to use them. (White syrup may be 
used instead of honey.) 

Lincoln, 111. Mrs. Wm. C. Ppau. 

Hermits. — li/o cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 3 eggs, 1^ 
teaspoon each nutmeg, cinnamon, and ginger; % tea- 
spoon baking soda, 1 cup raisins, Yo cup chopped citron, 
14 cup milk, 21/2 cups flour. Beat the butter and sugar 
to a cream; add the raisins and citron, also the milk; 
sift the soda and spices with flour. Add these, and roll 
about 1/3 of an inch thick. Cut into rounds, and bake 
on a greased pan in a quick oven. These will keep for 
months. 

Mrs. Christ Heckman. 



132 COOKIES AND WAFERS 

Hard Cookies. — 1 eup butter, 2 cups sugar, 2 eggs, 
3 cups flour (scant), 3 tablespoons cream, 1 teaspoon 
baking powder, some citron, or nuts, chopped. 

Emden, 111. Miss Ella Zimmer. 

Lemon Cookies. — 2 cups sugar, % cup butter and 
lard (mixed), 2 eggs, juice of 1 lemon, 1 cup cream 
(sour), 1 teaspoonful baking soda, flour enough to make 
a soft dough. Roll and bake. 

Etta Johnson. 

Marthas. — 1 cup of butter and lard together, 1 cup 
of brown sugar, 1 cup of granulated sugar, 2 eggs, 
well-beaten; 4 cups of sifted flour, I/2 teaspoonful of 
salt, 1/2 teaspoonful of cloves, % teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon, 1/2 teaspoonful of nutmeg, 1^ teaspoonful of soda, 
1 cup of raisins, cut fine ; 1 cup of English walnuts or 
pecans, I/2 cup of milk, 1 teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der. Butter the pans the first time, and drop in the 
dough with a teaspoon. Mrs. H. W. Toennigs. 

Marguerites. — 1 cup of brown sugar, 2 eggs, beaten 
slightly ; % cup of flour, little salt, I/4 teaspoonful bak- 
ing powder, 1 cup broken pecan nut meats. Drop in 
buttered tins, and put 1 whole pecan nut meat on top 
of each. Bake 10 or 15 minutes in a slow oven. 

Mrs. John W. Smith. 

Marguerites. — White of 1 large egg, 1 cup sugar, 5 
tablespoons water; boil slowly until a soft ball can 
be made, then pour slowly over the well-beaten egg, 
beating all the time; stir thick with shelled English 
walnuts, chopped fine, and spread over salted wafers. 
Place in the oven to brown. Delicious to serve with 
coffee, chocolate, or lemonade ; also very nice to serve 
with ice-cream, if crackers are not salted. 

Tremont, 111. Miss Jennie Fluegel. 

Macaroons. — Whites of 2 eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth ; then add i/o small cup sugar and 1 cup of cocoa- 
nut or nuts, ground fine. Make into balls the size of 
nutmegs, put in long pans very slightly greased, and 
bake in moderate oven. Mrs. C. L. Velde. 



COOKIES AND WAFERS 133 

Macaroons, Almond. — 1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. cut almonds, 
whites of 4 eggs, beaten light and dry; bake in small 
cakes in a slow oven. Mrs. J. Zimmer. 

Macaroons, Chocolate. — Whites of 4 eggs, beaten 
stiff; 1 lb. granulated sugar, i^ lb. grated chocolate, 1 
cup of ground almonds. Mrs. Otto Koch. 

Macaroons, Cocoanut. — 1 lb. cocoanut, 1 lb. sugar, 
6 egg whites, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Beat eggs white until 
stiff, then add sugar gradually, then cocoanut, then 
vanilla. Drop in little drops in pans, and bake in a 
moderate oven. They should remain in the oven about 
15 minutes. 

Mrs. Joe Hirth. 

Date Kisses. — Whites of 2 eggs, 1 cup of powdered 
sugar, 1 cup broken nut meats, 1 cup chopped dates. 
Beat egg whites stiff and add other ingredients in the 
order given, drop from teaspoon into buttered pans. 
Bake until a delicate brown in a slow oven. This 
makes 2i/^ dozen kisses. 

San Jose, 111. Agnes Adolph. 

Nut Macaroons. — Whites of 3 eggs, Yo lb. powdered 
sugar, beat the whites stiff, then add sugar, and beat it 
real stiff; then add 14 lb. almonds. Add 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Louise Vei.de. 

Nut Cookies. — II/2 cups sugar, % cup butter, 3 
«ggs, 1/2 cup milk, 3 level teaspoons baking powder, 1 
cup walnut meats, 3^/2 to 4 cups flour. Cream butter, 
add the sugar and other ingredients, as given. 

Mrs. Geo. Wetzel. 

Nut Cookies. — li/^ cups butter, 31/^ cups flour, 1% 
cups raisins, 3 eggs, pinch salt, 1% cups sugar, y^ cup 
hot water, II/2 cups nut meats, 1 teaspoon soda (level), 
dissolved in the hot water. Cream butter and sugar, 
then add eggs, without beating. Drop by teaspoon 
in pan, and bake in hot oven. 

Jacksonville, 111. Winifred Wackerle. 



134 COOKIES AND WAFERS 

Oat Meal Cookies. — % cup of butter, 1 cup of sugar 
and cream together; add 2 eggs and 1 cup of sour 
cream, and 1 cup of chopped raisins ; 2 cups of flour, 2 
cups of oat meal, pinch of nutmeg, and i/o a teaspoon of 
salt; 1/2 teaspoon of baking soda. Roll thin, and bake 
in a moderate oven. These are delicious cookies. 

Chicago, III. Miss L. Moglosky. 

Oat Meal Cookies. — Mix dry 3 cups rolled oats, 2 
cups granulated sugar, 2 cups flour, 1 cup chopped 
raisins, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, salt; 
add 2 well-beaten eggs, 5 tablespoons milk, 1 cup 
melted butter. Place small pieces, about the size of 
English walnuts, in greased pans, allowing room to 
spread. Bake in moderately hot oven. 

Mrs. a. a. Sepfle. 

Oat Meal Cookies. — Heat together two and one-half 
cups oat meal, i/o cup lard, % cup butter and when 
cool add to the following : 2 eggs, 1% cups sugar, 5 
tablespoons milk, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, dissolve 
in the little water, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 1 teaspoon 
cloves, % teaspoon salt, cup nut meats, 1 cup raisins, 
1 teaspoon vanilla, drop on buttered tins and bake. 

Mrs. Urban Albertsen. 

Oat Meal Wafers. — 2 rounding teaspoons baking 
powder, 3 cups rolled oats, 2 eggs, beaten together 
very light ; 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon melted butter, i/^ 
teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Mix dry ingredients 
thoroughly, and stir into beaten eggs, vanilla, butter. 
Form in cakes with the fingers, about size of a quarter, 
and place far apart in pan. Bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. Irving M. Weimer. 

New England Cookies. — 3 large cups brown sugar, 
1 large cup lard, 1 large cup water, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 
teaspoon cinnamon, % teaspoon cloves and allspice, 
1 teaspoon salt, flour enough to mix. Roll very thin; 
cut, sprinkle with granulated sugar. 

Mrs. Wesley Harmel. 



COOKIES AND WAFERS 135 

Peanut Cookies. — 14 cup butter, 1/2 cup sugar, 2 
eggs, 1 teaspoon lemon juice, II/2 cups flour, V2 tea- 
spoon salt, 11/2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup finely- 
chopped peanuts or V2 cup peanut butter, I/3 cup milk. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs, 
then the nuts and lemon juice ; next the flour, salt, and 
baking powder, sifted together. Roll thinly; cut into 
rounds or diamonds, and bake 10 minutes in a moderate 
oven. 

Denver, Colo. Miss Theresa Neef. 

Rocks. — 1 scant cup butter, li/^ cups white sugar, 
3 eggs, well-beaten, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 cup walnut 
meats, II/2 cups raisins, 3 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 
dissolved in a tablespoon of water, will make a stiff 
substance, but requires no thinning. Bake on buttered 
tins. 

Cora Albertsen. 

Rocks. — 1% cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 2 eggs, 
1 small tablespoon soda, 1 small tablespoon water, 1 
teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon salt, % lb. of seeded 
raisins, I/2 lb. chopped walnuts. Flour to make a stiff 
batter. Drop in small cakes, and bake slowly. 

Granite City, 111. Olivia Magaret Kottmeier. 

Walnut Wafers. — Beat 2 eggs until light; then add 
y^ lb. of sugar that has been rolled fine, I/2 lb. of 
chopped walnut meats, 3 even tablespoons of flour, 
pinch of salt, and 1/2 teaspoon baking powder. Drop 
small spoonfuls on buttered pans, and bake a light 
brown. These are nice made with chopped almonds, 
pecans, or peanuts. 

T. H. 

CHRISTMAS COOKIES 

Almond Cookies. — 1^ lb. almonds, 5 yolks and 1 
whole ^%z, 1/4 lb. butter, 1 lb. sugar, 1/2 teaspoon cinna- 
mon, 1 lb. flour, 1/2 teaspoon mace, I/4 teaspoon cloves. 
Roll dough about i/i inch thick, and cut in diamond 
shape. 

Mrs. H. p. Weyhrich. 



136 COOKIES AND WAFERS 

Almond Cookies. — 1 cup butter, 2 cups granulated 
sugar, 4 eggs, 3i/^ cups flour, 3 level teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder, 1 cup chopped almonds. Cream butter, 
add sugar, 4 egg yolks, 2 egg whites, beaten stiff. 
Remaining 2 egg whites are to be used for tops of 
cookies; sift flour and baking powder 3 times — and 
add no moisture of any kind. Knead in a smooth 
dough, roll very thin; spread egg whites over cookies, 
sprinkle sugar and cinnamon on top, and half an 
almond on each cookie. Bake 10 minutes. 

Lizzie Sipfle. 

Almond Wafers. — 1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. butter, 4 egg 
whites, 1 lb. ground, blanched almonds, li/o lbs. flour, 
5 cents rose water, grated rind of 1 lemon. Cream 
butter and sugar, add beaten eggs and lemon rind, 
then ground almonds and rose water. Then knead in 
the flour. Roll into a thin sheet, cut out with fancy 
cutter. Bake in slow oven to a golden color. 

Mrs. Chas. Duisdieker. 

Anise Drop Cookies. — 1 lb. confectionery sugar, 1 
lb. flour, 6 eggs, lemon flavor. Beat yolks and sugar % 
of an hour; add well-beaten whites, flour, and baking 
powder. Sprinkle pan with anise seed, and drop small 
teaspoon dough for each cookie. Let stand until crust 
forms over each cookie. Bake in slow oven. 

Mrs. H. p. Weyhrich. 

Easier Gebaeck. — 1 lb. butter, 1 lb. sugar, 4 eggs, 
flour to roll. When mixed, keep in cool place over 
night. Cut into small round cakes. Mix yolk of 1 egg 
with a little milk, and spread over the top. Sprinkle 
with finely-chopped almonds. Then bake. 

Mrs. a. L. Koeneke. 

Chocolate Cookies. — 1 pint powdered sugar, 1 pint 
grated chocolate, 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon, y^ cup 
ground almonds, 3 eggs, form in drops, and bake in a 
moderate oven, Mrs. Frank Nafziger. 

Chocolate Wafers. — 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup granu- 
lated sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup grated chocolate, 1 
egg, 1 lb. almonds, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, enough flour 



COOKIES AND WAFERS 137 

to make stiff (about II/2 cups). Roll very thin, cut 
with square or round cutter. Bake a very short time. 

Minnie Lorenz. 

Christmas Cookies. — 1 lb. butter, 1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. 
flour, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoon baking powder, grated lemon, 
and a little of the juice. Mix all together, and roll out 
on a floured board, and cut with a small, round cutter, 
and bake in a moderate oven ; put a teaspoon of maca- 
roon on top of each before baking. Macaroon top: 
Whites of 6 eggs, beaten stiff; 1 lb. of powdered 
sugar, 1 lb. of almonds, not blanched; little lemon 
juice, and a little cinnamon. 

Mrs. H. Goldsmith. 

German Christmas Cookies. — Butter Cookies: % lb. 
butter, 1 lb. flour, I/2 lb. sugar, 2 eggs, rind of 1 lemon, 
yi teaspoon baking powder. Beat sugar and eggs 
until light, add lemon and flour, then work in the 
butter. Cut into round, thin cookies, and put on each 
before baking a small teaspoon of the following : Beaten 
whites of 6 eggs, 1 lb. confectionery sugar, 1 lb. al- 
monds, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, rind of 1 lemon. 

Mrs. H. p. Weyhrich. 

Cinnamon Stars. — 1 lb. powdered sugar, 1 lb. al- 
monds, chopped fine ; whites of 6 eggs, % ounce cinna- 
mon, lemon extract. Beat the eggs stiff ; add powdered 
sugar, extract, almonds, and cinnamon. Let dough be- 
come cold, and then roll out as thick as a dollar. 
Spread over the top beaten egg and sugar. 

Miss Olga Andrae. 

Cinnamon Stars. — Whites of 6 eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth ; 1 lb. of almonds, ground fine ; 1 lb. of pow- 
dered sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, % teaspoon- 
ful of cloves or allspice. Sprinkle flour and powdered 
sugar on board. Roll thin, and cut star shapes. 

Mrs. Walter Jacobs. 

Cinnamon Stars. — 1 lb. powdered sugar, 1 lb. grated, 
unblanched almonds, 6 ^^^ whites, grated rind of 1 
lemon, 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon. Beat eggs to 
a stiff froth ; add sugar and lemon, and beat 15 minutes 



138 COOKIES AND WAFERS 

longer; then add cinnamon. Put aside a little of this 
mixture for frosting. Add the almonds, put on well- 
floured baking board, roll thin, and cut with a star- 
shaped cookie cutter. Frost each cookie and bake in 
a slow oven. 
Lincoln, 111. Mrs. Alvina Rembe. 

Gebackene S with Almonds (Grerman). — 1/2 lb. but- 
ter, stirred very light ; i/4 lb. almonds pounded fine, mix 
lightly with butter, i/4 lb. sugar, the yellow rind of 
a lemon grated in; yolks of 5 eggs, well-beaten; I/2 
lb. flour. Mix well, roll out, and form in shape of S. 
Sprinkle pan with little flour, put in 1, and brush over 
with beaten white of an egg. Bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. Robert Weimer. 

Lebkuchen. — 1 quart molasses, II/2 lb. brown sugar, 
% lb. almonds, 2 oranges, rind and juice; 1 whole 
lemon, 1 teaspoonful of nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of all- 
spice, 1 teaspoonful of cloves, 1 teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon, 1/2 lb. butter and lard mixed, % teaspoonful of 
soda. Dough as stiff as possible, and roll out; Boil 
molasses and sugar, then take orange, lemon, and al- 
monds and put them in ; remove, and let cool. 

Mrs. D. H. Abrahams. 

Lebkuchen. — 1 lb. butter, 2 lbs. dark brown sugar, 
% lb. citron, I/2 lb. almonds, 5 eggs, 3 cups molasses, 
1 cup sour milk, 16 cups flour, 2 heaping tablespoons 
cinnamon, IV2 heaping tablespoons cloves, 2^ table- 
spoons soda. Heat sugar and molasses ; then put in 
butter. When cooked, put in other ingredients. Bake 
the next day. Hattie Hippen. 

Lab Kuchen — 1/2 pound butter, % pound lard, 2 
pounds brown sugar, 4 eggs beaten separately, % gal- 
lon syrup, 1 cup fruit juice or coffee, 1 glass jelly, 2 
pounds any kind of nut meats chopped fine, one pack- 
age raisins, dredged in flour, I/2 pound together of 
orange, lemon peel, pineapple and citron, chopped fine 
and dredged in flour, 3 teaspoons of ground cinnamon 
and 2 teaspoons of ground allspice, 1 teaspoon of cloves. 



COOKIES AND WAFERS 139 

pinch of salt, four teaspoons baking soda dissolved in 
a little hot water, 2 teaspoons baking powder, enough 
flour to make a stiff dough. Cream butter and lard 
well, add sugar and cream again, continue as in order 
given. Makes a very stiff dough. Roll thin and cut. 
This recipe does not need to stand for several days but 
can be baked as soon as mixed. 

Mrs. L. J. Albertsen. 

Molasses Cookies. — 5 lbs. flour, 4 teaspoons soda, 
in 1/2 cup sour milk; 3 pints molasses, 1 lb. lard, 1 lb. 
brown sugar, 1 lb. nut meats, 2 large tablespoons cinna- 
mon, 4 eggs. Heat molasses and lard ; put all in flour, 
and work smooth into loaves ; slice rather thin, and 
bake in a slow oven. Best if mixed and allowed to 
stand a week before baking. 

Mrs. J. H. Soldwedel. 

New Year's Cookies. — 1 pound flour, % pound of 
sugar, 1 egg, cardamon-ten cents. Mix with luke 
warm water and 3 tablespoons of melted butter to form 
a thin batter. Bake and shape over an iron made for 
New Year's cakes. Sena Abrahams. 

Peppernuts. — 1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. flour, 4 ounces citron, 
4 eggs, 11/2 heaping teaspoons cinnamon, i/o heaping 
teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Hattie Hippen. 

Sand Tarts. — Stir to a cream 10 ounces of butter, 
and add 12 ounces of sugar, yolks of 2 eggs with the 
white of 1 ; wine glass of milk, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 2 
teaspoons of powdered cinnamon ; then stir in 1 lb. of 
flour, and lay dough on well-floured board. Roll out 
as thin as possible ; cut in uniform size. Brush lightly 
over the cookies with the beaten white of the egg you 
have saved out, and then strew with sugar and put an 
almond on each cookie. Mrs. D. H. Abrahams. 

Springerlies. — 4 eggs, 1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. flour, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder. Beat 1 hour, let stiffen 24 
hours before baking ; sprinkle anise seeds in bottom of 
baking pans ; bake very slowly. 

Mrs. Philip Reinhard, Sr. 



CAKES 

"Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might." 

—Bible. 

Frostings and Fillings 

Cake should be nearly cold before attempting to 
frost it. In frosting dip the knife frequently in cold 
water. Very thick frosting may be made to adhere 
to a cake by taking 1 teaspoon of gelatine dissolved 
in a little boiling water and while hot rubbing all over 
the top of the cake. Then apply the frosting. One 
teaspoon of lemon juice will do much toward pre- 
venting frosting from crumbling. 

Almond Cake Filling. — 1 lb. almonds, ground; 1 
vanilla bean, ground ; 4 eggs (yolks and whites beaten 
separately), 16 tablespoons sugar, scant i/^ pint sour 
cream, beaten. This is enough for 2 cakes. 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. P. A. Bergner. 

Boiled Icing. — Boil 1% cups sugar, 1 tablespoon 
vinegar, and % teaspoon of baking powder. Boil until 
it threads then add it to the stiffly beaten whites of 
eggs (2). Beat until thick and add desired flavoring. 

Mrs. W. p. Herget. 

Boiled Frosting. — % cup sugar, l^ cup water, ^4 
teaspoon cream of tartar, white of 1 egg. Beat egg 
white until frothy, add cream of tartar and beat till 
stiff and dry. Boil sugar and water till like honey, 
add 5 tablespoons to egg ; beat in : boil the rest till it 
threads, then pour in slowly, beating all the time till 
stiff. Flavor. 

Ruth Balcke. 

Caramel Frosting. — II/3 cups granulated sugar, % 
cup brown sugar, 1/2 cup butter, % cup cream. Boil the 
above ingredients until it forms a soft ball when tested 
in cold water. Take from fire and beat imtil thick. 
, Hepler, Kan. Mrs. Louis de Yries. 

141 



142 CAKES 

Caramel Frosting. — 1 cup light brown sugar, 1 cup 
white sugar, ^ tablespoon butter, 1 cup milk. Boil 
8 or 10 minutes without stirring ; when done, beat till 
right consistency. Nuts are very nice added. If in- 
clined to sugar, add cream. 

Mrs. John Rust. 

Chocolate Icing. — 4 tablespoons grated chocolate, 1 
scant cup sugar, 3 tablespoons milk, 1 tablespoon 
water ; boil about 10 minutes. 

Denver, Colo. Mrs. Hurst Wakefield. 

Chocolate Frosting. — li/o squares chocolate, i^ cup 
scalded cream, few grains salt, yolk of 1 egg, I/2 tea- 
spoon melted butter, confectioners' sugar, % teaspoon 
vanilla. Melt chocolate over hot water, add cream 
gradually ; salt, yolk of egg, and butter. Stir in con- 
fectioners ' sugar until of right consistency to spread ; 
then add flavoring. 

Mrs. a. "VV. Hinners. 

Chocolate Filling. — 5 tablespoons cocoa, 5 table- 
spoons hot coft'ee and 1 rounding teaspoon of butter 
also enough powdered sugar to spread well. 

San Jose, 111. Agnes Adolph. 

Chocolate Filling. — 2 squares Baker's chocolate, put 
in pan with piece of butter the size of a walnut until 
melted ; add 1 cup sugar, Yo cup milk, with 1 tablespoon 
corn starch stirred in smoothly ; 1 egg, well-beaten ; 
cook until thick ; add 1 teaspoon vanilla, 

Mrs. J. H. Brooks. 

Cake Filling. — Clean and dry i/o cup of seeded 
raisins ; put them through a food chopper ; grind 1 cup 
English walnuts ; then mix the 2 with the juice of 1 
orange ; add this to a boiled frosting. 

Mrs. John Rust. 

Filling for Layer Cake. — 1/2 cup boiling water, % 
cup sugar, 2 tablespoons flour, little piece of butter. 
Mix the sugar, flour, and butter together with a little 
water; then stir it in the boiling water, add chopped 
nuts and seedless raisins enough to cover layer ; let boil 
a little, then beat yolk of an egg, adding a little vanilla, 



CAKES 143 

and stir in; take off fire and let cool; then spread 
between layers. Instead of boiled frosting for top, take 
powdered sugar, mix with little cream, and flavor 
with vanilla. Press I/2 nuts on top while sugar is still 
moist. 

Mks. Ben J. Epkens. 

Fruit Filling. — Stir 1 tablespoon flour, y^ cup but- 
ter, small cup sugar into the beaten yolks of 4 eggs. 
Set this in a pan of hot water, heat thoroughly, but 
do not boil ; then add 1 small can of grated pineapple, 
5 cents worth of shredded cocoanut. Put this on stove, 
and cook until thick. Set off, and let get cold before 
spreading on the layers of the cake. 

Mrs. G. N. Weber. 

Fig Filling. — % pound figs, i/^ cup sugar, l^ cup 
boiling water, 1 tabblespoon lemon juice. Chop the 
figs fine and mix with sugar and water, add lemon 
juice. Cook in double boiler thick enough to spread. 

Peoria, 111. Tina Meints. 

Icing. — Take 4 cooking spoons of hot water and a 
cup of sugar; boil until it will crisp in cold water. 
Beat the white of 1 egg to a froth; stir the syrup in 
gradually, and beat Yo hour; flavor with vanilla and 
as much Tartaric Acid as the end of a knife blade will 
hold. After icing the cake, cover it immediately with 
a pan. 

Indianapolis, Ind. Mrs. Homer Hopkins. 

Lemon Cheese. — Grated rind of 2 lemons and juice 
of same ; yolks of 3 eggs, % cup butter, 1 cup sugar ; 
mix all together, and cook till thick as sponge, stirring 
all the time ; let cool, and spread between layers of cake. 

Quincy, 111. Mrs. Helen Margaret Wilms. 

Lemon Cream Filling. — Take the juice and a little 
grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 table- 
spoonful flour, 1 tablespoonful water. Mix flour and 
sugar, add water and lemon juice, then the well-beaten 
egg ; cook over steam till it thickens ; remove from fire, 
and beat till it spreads good. 

Tremont, 111. Mrs. Bird. 



144 CAKES 

Maple Cream Filling. — 1 cup of granulated sugar, 
6 tablespoons sweet cream, butter size of a hickory nut. 
Boil all together till if forms a soft lump when dropped 
in cold water, which only takes a few minutes ; remove 
from fire, add a drop or two malpeine and beat until it 
is the proper consistency. If it should cook a little 
too long, add a little water and cook again. This is 
very nice. 

Tremont, 111. Mrs. Bird. 

Marshmallow Paste. — % cup sugar, % cup milk, 
% lb. marshmallows, 2 tablespoons hot water, i/o table- 
spoon vanilla. Put sugar and milk in sauce pan, heat 
slowly to boiling point without stirring, and boil 6 
minutes. Break marshmallows in pieces, and melt in 
double boiler; add hot syrup gradually, stirring con- 
stantly; beat until cool enough to spread, add vanilla. 
May be used for filling or frosting. 

Mrs. C. W. Haynes. 

Milk Frosting. — 11/2 cups sugar, 1 teaspoon butter, 
% cup milk, y2 teaspoon vanilla. Melt the butter in a 
sauce pan, then add sugar and milk. Boil gently with- 
out stirring for thirteen minutes. Beat until stiff 
enough to spread, add flavoring and spread over the 
cake. 

Mrs. E. F. Hoffman. 

Uncooked Cocoa Frosting. — 2 tablespoons cocoa, 2 
tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons corn starch, 2 cups 
powered sugar. Dissolve butter, corn starch, and 
cocoa in a little boiling water so as to make a smooth 
paste. Then add powdered sugar (more than stated 
in recipe may be used). 

Mrs. George Eldredge. 

Almond Cake. — 1 lb. of butter, rubbed to a cream; 
1 lb. of sifted sugar, 3 whole eggs, and 5 yolks; I/4 lb. 
of almonds, grated, the rind and a little of the juice 
of a lemon, 1 lb. of flour, a scant teaspoonful of pow- 
dered Cardamon, 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, 
then the beaten whites of the 5 esro's. Mix 2 tea- 



CAKES 145 

spoonfuls of baking powder with the flour. Bake in 
2 deep pans. Put together with any preferred filling 
or a plain frosting. 

Belleville, 111. Mrs. E. C. Magaret. 

Almond Cake. — Beat together the yolks of 6 eggs 
and % pint granulated sugar. Add IV2 pints blanched 
and shelled almonds, i/^ lb. sliced citron, well-floured, 
and the beaten whites, with 11/2 pints sifted flour. Pour 
1^/2 inches thick in well-greased dripping pans. Bake 
in a quick oven, and when done cut slices 1 inch thick 
across the cake ; turn each slice over on its side, return 
to oven, and bake a short time. When cold, place in a 
tin box. These will keep a year or more, and are nice 
to have on hand. 

Emden, 111. Anna Steen Zimmer. 

Angel Food. — ^Whites of 11 large or 12 small eggs, 
11/2 cups sugar, 1 level teaspoon cream of tartar, pinch 
of salt, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 cup Swansdown flour. Sift 
flour and sugar each 4 times, measure, and sift 3 times 
more ; set aside. Put whites in a gallon crock, add 
pinch of salt, beat with a woven wire egg beater until 
foamy; then add cream of tartar and beat until very 
stiff. Sift in sugar gradually, beating constantly; add 
vanilla, then quickly sift and fold in flour with egg 
beater or with the hand. Place at once in an ungreased 
angel food pan, and bake about 45 minutes in a 
moderate oven. Do not open oven the first 15 minutes, 
after which watch and turn as necessary. Cake should 
rise very high over top of pan and then be allowed to 
go down to about level of pan before taking from oven. 
If taken out before it has a chance to level, it will fall. 
Invert pan at once, place so air can circulate under 
cake ; let hang until cold ; cut cake from sides and tube 
and shake out on plate. To have a nice, high cake 
one must work very quickly, without stopping, from the 
time you begin whipping whites till cake is in oven. 

Mrs. Arthur Hinners. 

Angel Cake. — Whites of 8 large or 9 medium eggs, 
11/4 cups granulated sugar, 1 cup Swansdown Cake 
Flour, % teaspoon cream of tartar, a pinch of salt 



146 CAKES 

added to eggs before whipping, flavor to taste. Sift, 
measure and set aside sugar and flour; whip eggs to 
foam, add cream of tartar, and whip until very stiff; 
add sugar and fold in (always using a spoon to mix 
cakes with) then flavor and fold in, then flour and 
fold in lightly through. Put in a moderate oven at 
once. Will bake in about 25 minutes ; should not take 
longer, as baking too long dries out moisture, makes 
them tough and dry. Put in moderate oven — too hot 
for butter cakes and not hot enough for biscuits. If 
cake is properly mixed it will raise above pan. When 
it is done it begins to shrink ; let it shrink back to level 
of pan. Watch carefully this stage and when it shrinks 
back to level of pan take out of oven and invert im- 
mediately, rest on center tube, let hang until perfectly 
cold, then cut cake loose from around sides and center 
tube. Knock back slide, insert knife and cut loose 
from the bottom ; turn out. 

Angel, Fruit or Nut Cake. — Make dough same as 
plain angel cake. Put half dough in cake pan, cut 
candied or brandied cherries in two pieces, drop on 
top of dough in pan, say about half cup of cherries, or 
if nuts, half cup of nuts, half cup of raisins, half cup 
grated cocoanut, half cup of any of the above, or if 
a mixture is desired, use one-fourth cup of any two 
fruits, or fruit and nuts, then put rest of dough on 
top, spread evenly with a spatula, then run spatula 
through to the bottom of pan and gently mix the fruit 
all the way around. Bake same as plain cake, let hang 
in pan and cut out as directed. 

Any of the above mixtures will be delicious and 
cake baking a delight. If brandied cherries are used, 
wipe moisture out of them. 

Angel Fig Cake. — Make same as angel cake. Bake 
in two-layer tin ; let cool. Make icing from the whites 
of 4 eggs, flavor with vanilla. Spread layer of icing, 
then layer of finely chopped figs that have been cooked 
20 minutes in slightly sweetened water and well 
drained. Spread another layer of icing, put on top 



CAKES 147 

layer and cover with icing ; lastly figs. Soft figs need 
only to be soaked in hot sweetened water. 

Angel Food Cake (Mock). — Set 1 cup of milk in a 
pan of boiling water ; bring to boiling point. In a sifter 
put 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of flour, and 3 teaspoons 
baking powder, and a pinch of salt. Sift together 4 
times ; into this pour the boiling milk, and stir. Fold in 
with care the well-beaten whites of 2 eggs. Do not 
flavor cake nor grease the pan, but flavor frosting with 
lemon. Dough will be thin and bubbly, but cake fine. 

Mrs. H. W. Mattheessen. 

Apple Sauce Cake. — 1 cup sugar, 1/2 cup butter, 
beaten to a cream ; add 1 cup strained apple sauce, tea- 
spoon soda mixed in the sauce ; 1 cup raisins, 1% cups 
flour, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, % teaspoon each cloves 
and nutmeg. 

Mrs. MraA Junker. 

Apple Sauce Cake. — 2 cups sugar, 2 tablespoons 
butter, 2 cups flour, 2 cups hot apple sauce. 1 teaspoon 
soda, 1 teaspoon cinnam9n, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 tea- 
spoon allspice, 1/4 teaspoon salt, 1 cup nut meats, 1 
cup risins. Mix all together and bake. 

Mrs. H. G. Ailts. 

Dried. Apple Cake. — 2 cups dried apples; soak over 
night ; in morning grind them. Add 1 cup molasses, 1 
cup dark-brown sugar. Stir all together, cook 20 
minutes, then let cool. Then add 1 cup soft butter, 1 
cup sour milk, 2 eggs, not separated, but well-beaten; 

2 teaspoons soda, 2 teaspoons ground cinnamon, % 
teaspoon ground nutmeg, 1 lb. seeded raisins, just about 

3 cups flour, % teaspoon vanilla extract. 

Mrs. C. L. Velde. 

Blitz Kuchen. — 4 eggs, V2 cup butter, 1 cup gran- 
ulated sugar, 1 cup flour, 1 heaping teaspoon baking 
powder. Place nuts on top with powdered sugar and 
cinnamon before baking. Cream butter and sugar, beat 
in eggs, 1 at a time, then flour and baking powder, 
sifted together. Bake in a square cake pan in a mod- 
erate oven. ]yijjg_ Louis Wieburg. 



148 CAKES 

Blitz Kuchen. — % cup butter, 1 cnp siif^ar, 5 eggs, 
separated, 2 cups pastry flour, 2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Cream butter and sugar, add 
yolks of eggs, flour and baking powder, flavoring and 
beaten white. Spread in pans and sprinkle top with 
almonds and powdered sugar. Bake about 30 minutes 
in moderately hot oven. If the mixture is very stiff 
add 1 tablespoon of water. 

Mrs. E. B. Sanborn. 

Burnt Sugar Cake. — lyo cups sugar, % cup butter, 
3 eggs, 2 cups of flour, 1 cup warm water, 1 teaspoon 
of vanilla, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup nuts, 1 teaspoon cin- 
namon, 3 tablespoons of burnt sugar, 1 heaping tea- 
spoon of baking powder. Cream, butter and sugar, 
yellow of the eggs well beaten, warm water, vanilla. 
Mix nuts and risins with flour and add to the first 
mixture, also cinnamon and baking powder. Put a 
little sugar in a skillet and melt it and leave it burn 
until a dark brown, then add to the mixture and last 
of all the beaten egg whites. Bake as a whole cake. 

St. Louis, Mo. Miss Hazel Nahlick. 

Burnt Caramel Cake. — Put % of a cup of granu- 
lated sugar in a pan, and brown real dark. Then add 
V2 cup boiling water, and let boil until it throws a 
thread. li/^ cups granulated sugar, I/2 cup butter, 2 
eggs, 1 cup cold water, 2 cups flour. Put the yolks in, 
and beat the whites, and add last. Keep adding a little 
water, then a little flour, until it is all in. 1 teaspoon 
lemon extract, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Add all 
the above burnt part, except 2 tablespoons. Beat 5 
minutes, and bake in layers. 

Filling. — 11/2 cups sugar, i/o cup milk, butter size 
of a walnut. Cook until thick, then add i/o teaspoon 
lemon extract and 2 tablespoonfuls of the burnt car- 
amel. 

Mackinaw, 111. Miss Julia Smith. 

Burned Sugar Cake. — 1% cups sugar, 14 cup but- 
ter, 2 eggs, 1 cup water, 3 cups flour, 2 tablespoons 
baking powder, 12 tablespoons burned sugar. Burn 1 



CAKES 149 

cup of sugav ; then add 1 cup hot water ; after cool, put 
12 tablespoonfuls in the cake. This will make the cake 
rather brown. To burn the sugar it must be granulated 
sugar and put in a skillet ; keep stirring it until brown, 
then add the water ; there will be more than enough for 
1 cake. 

Mrs. Frank Isenberg. 

Brown Cake. — 1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, % cup 
lard and butter, y^ cup coft'ee, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 
teaspoon of all kinds of spices, I/2 box raisins and cur- 
rants; flour to stiffen. Bake in loaf cake pan like fruit 
cake. This will keep. Place in a stone jar. 

Mrs. Albert Hodgkins. 

Chocolate Cake. — 2 scant cups flour, 1 cup milk, 

1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 egg, well-beaten ; 

2 squares Baker's chocolate, 1 level teaspoon soda, dis- 
solved in a little hot water ; 1 teaspoon vanilla. Bake 
in a loaf. (Cheap, and very good.) 

Denver, Colo. Mrs. Flora Magaret Bird. 

Chocolate Cake. — 2 cups of sugar, butter the size 
of an Q^^, 1/0 cup of boiling water, over a cup of grated 
chocolate ; I/2 cup of cold water, 4 eggs, 2 cups of flour, 
2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, flavoring. 

Mrs. John W. Smith. 

Chocolate Loaf. — 3 eggs beaten separately; 1% cups 
granulated sugar, I/2 cup butter, 1 cup sweet milk, 2^/2 
cups Swansdown Cake Flour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder and 2 squares of chocolate. To the chocolate 
add one half the milk and stir over slow fire until 
thoroughly dissolved ; add i/o cup sugar and stir until 
thoroughly mixed, then set aside to cool ; sift flour 
once, add baking powder, and sift three times ; cream 
butter and the remainder of the sugar thoroughly ; beat 
yolks to a stiff froth and stir in ; whip whites until 
stiff and pour on top ; add remainder of the milk to 
the chocolate and stir until thoroughly mixed ; add 
this mixture, then flour and stir very hard. Put in 
slow oven at once. Will bake in 30 or 40 minutes. 
Can be made into layers' by adding one half cup more 



150 ; CAKES 

flour. Use chocolate or white icing for filling. Invert 
as other cakes. Hang in pan until cold. 

Chocolate Cake (2 large layers). — 1/2 cup butter, iy2 
cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 4 eggs, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, 2 squares chocolate, 14 teaspoon soda. 
Cream butter, then gradually add the sugar. Cream 
the mixture. Add egg yolks that have been beaten 
until light. Add chocolate which has been melted over 
hot water. Then add some of the milk and part of 
the dry ingredients (flour, baking powder and soda 
sifted together). Repeat until all milk and dry in- 
gredients have been added. Beat the mixture thor- 
oughly. Cut and fold in the whites of eggs quickly ; 
then turn into oiled pans and bake about thirty minutes 
in a moderate oven. 

Cora Albertsen. 

Cake (Cream Sponge). — 4 eggs, 1 scant cup sugar, 
3 tablespoons cold water, 1^ tablespoons of corn 
starch, 1% teaspoons of baking powder, 1 teaspoon of 
vanilla, flour, beat yolks of eggs until thick and lemon 
colored, add sugar gradually, beat hard, then add the 
cold water. Put corn starch in a measuring cup and 
fill the remainder with sifted flour, and add baking 
powder and add to the first mixture. Add a pinch of 
salt to the whites of the eggs and beat to a stiff froth, 
add this to the mixture and then add the vanilla and 
beat very hard. Bake in layers. 

St. Louis, Mo. Miss Hazel Nahlick. 

Cocoa Cake. — 1 tablespoon butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 
heaping tablespoons cocoa, 1 egg, 1 cup' boiling water, 
1% cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 level tea- 
spoon baking soda, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Cream butter 
and sugar; add beaten egg, then cocoa, dissolved in % 
cup boiling water ; add flour and baking powder ; then 
baking soda, dissolved in % cup boiling water ; vanilla. 
Bake in square pan. 

Icing. — Cream 1 tablespoon butter; add 2 table- 
spoons cream and about 2 cups powdered sugar. 
Flavor with vanilla and beat well. If a cocoa icing is 



CAKES 151 

desired, add 1 tablespoon each cocoa and coffee, omit- 
ting 1 tablespoon of cream. 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. Millie Saal Younge. 

Coffee Cake. — 1 cup sugar, % cup butter or lard, 
% cup molasses, 1 cup cold coffee, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon 
each of nutmeg, cloves, cinnamon, and soda ; flour 
enough to make rather stiff dough. 

Harpster, Idaho. Mrs. Charlotte Surridge. 

Cream Cake. — "Whites of 10 eggs, % cup of butter, 
2 cups of sugar, 1 tablespoon of baking powder, 1 cup 
of milk, 3 cups of flour. Stir butter and sugar to a 
cream, then add milk, next the flour and baking powder 
sifted together ; and last, the eggs, beaten to a froth. 
Bake in tins lined with buttered paper. 

Filling for Cake. — 2 cups of granulated sugar, 
with enough water to dissolve ; let it boil until it 
threads from the spoon ; beat whites of 2 eggs stiff, then 
pour the boiling sugar into it, beating all the time. 
Add a pinch of cream of tartar. And a cup of chopped 
nuts and 1 teaspoon of almond extract. 

Miss Minnie Meinen. 

Date Loaf. — 1 lb, dates, 1 lb. English walnuts, 1 
cup sugar, 1 cup flour, pinch salt, 4 eggs, beaten sep- 
arately; 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla, 1 large spoon brandy or water. Beat yolks of ^ 
eggs until light, add sugar, vanilla, water, flour, in 
which salt and baking power have been sifted; nuts 
and dates, dredged with some of the flour; then the 
beaten whites. Bake 1 hour. Keeps as well as fruit 

^^^^s- Mrs. D, F. Velde. 

Date Loaf. — 6 eggs, li/^ cups flour, II/2 cups sugar, 
2 teaspoons baking powder. Beat Avhites and yolks 
separately ; add % the sugar to whites and % to yolks. 
Sift flour and baking powder together, stir into the 
yolks ; then add whites and vanilla. Stir in 1 lb. of 
floured dates and 1 lb. of English walnut meats. Lastly 
add 6 tablespoons boiling water. Turn in well-buttered 
loaf pan, and bake 1 hour in moderate oven. 

Erna Hecker. 



152 CAKES 

Roll Jelly Cake. — 2 eggs, beaten with 1 cupful sugar ; 
1/4 cup milk, pinch of salt, flavor to taste, 1 heaping tea- 
spoon baking powder, sifted into V^ cups flour. Bake 
in a quick oven. Spread, and roll up at once. This 
cake will not break when rolled. 

Marie Fluegel. 

Date Loaf. — 6 eggs, 1% cups flour, li/^ cups sugar, 
2 teaspoons baking powder ; beat whites and yolks 
separately, add half the sugar to the whites and half 
to yolks. Sift flour and baking powder, stir in yolks 
then add whites and vanilla ; stir in 1 pound floured 
dates, % pound candied pineapple, I/2 pound English 
Walnut meats, I/2 pound Brazil Nut meats; lastly add 
6 tablespoons boiling water. Turn in well buttered 
loaf pan and bake in moderate oven. 

Malinda Kreigsman. 

Date Loaf Cake. — Y2 cup butter, 1 cup brown sugar, 
2 eggs, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon vanilla, % teaspoon 
salt, % cup luke warm water, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 
pound dates, 1 cup chopped nuts. Cream butter and 
then add the sugar and cream mixture, add well beaten 
eggs. Then add some of the flour and salt which have 
been sifted together and part of the water in which 
soda has been dissolved. Repeat until all has been 
added, lastly, stir in dates, stoned, chopped and floured, 
' nuts and vanilla. Bake in a greased and floured pan. 
For the best results the oven should be slow. 

Copied from American Cookery Magazine. 
Delicious Cake. — 1 cup of sugar, i/^ cup of milk, 
1/2 cup of butter, II/2 cups of flour, 2 eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately; IY2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Mix flour and baking powder thoroughly. 

Gertrude Kief. 
Mrs. Harm Smith. 
Devil Food Cakes. — Put on stove to boil 1 cup 
granulated sugar, 14 cup grated chocolate, % cup 
sweet milk. When cool, add the following : 1 cup sugar, 
1/2 cup butter, % cup sweet milk, 3 eggs, beaten sepa- 
rately ; 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 



CAKES 153 

Filling. — 1 cup milk, 1 cup granulated sugar, 1/2 
cup grated chocolate. Boil until thick ; beat until cool ; 
then put on cake. 

Mrs. H. D. Janssen. 

Devil's Food Cake. — 2 squares chocolate, i/^ cup 
milk (cook the chocolate and milk together, to melt the 
chocolate) ; II/2 cups sugar, 1/3 cup butter, % cup coffee, 
1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 2 cups flour. 
Cream the sugar and butter together, then add the 
eggs, cinnamon, and vanilla. Dissolve the soda in 
the coffee, and add it ; tlien add 1 cup of flour and stir. 
Lastly, add the second cup of flour, with the baking 
powder. Put in 2 pans, and bake. 

Peoria, 111. Mable V. Wood. 

Devil's Food. — Cream 14 cup of butter; add 1 cup 
of sugar and cream until very light ; beat in 2 whole 
eggs, 1 teaspoon of soda in ^^ cup thick, sour milk, ^ 
teaspoon baking powder in li/4 cups flour. Break 
14 Baker's chocolate in cup, and add enough boiling 
water to make cup Yz full, and add to cake last thing. 
Flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. Charles Schaefer. 

Fruit Cake. — 2 cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 
1 cup molasses, 1 cup strong coffee (as prepared for 
table), 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 2 teaspoons cloves, 1 
teaspoon grated nutmeg, % lb. chopped nut meats, ^4 
lb. chopped figs, 4 eggs, 1 lb. raisins, 1 lb. currants, 
1/4 lb. citron, 1 teaspoon soda, 4 cups flour. Cream the 
butter and sugar. Add 4 well-beaten eggs and molasses. 
To this add, alternately with coffee, the soda, spices, 
and flour, which have been well-mixed. Then add the 
fruits and nuts. Put the ingredients into a pan well- 
lined with oil paper. Bake II/2 hours in a moderate 
oven. 

Mrs. K. a. Kief. 

Fniit Cake. — 1 lb. flour, 1 lb. dark-brown sugar, 1 
lb. butter, 2 nutmegs, 2 teaspoons cloves, 3 teaspoons 
cinnamon, 10 eggs, 2 lbs. figs, chopped fine ; 2 lbs. cur- 



154 , CAKES 

rants, 2 lbs. raisins, % lb. citron, ^ lb. candied cherries, 
1/2 lb. almonds, 1 teaspoon soda, i/o glass brandy, 1 
glass jelly. 
New York, N. Y. Mrs. Clara Rosenthal. 

Fruit or Nut Cake. — 11/2 cups brown sugar, 1/2 
cup butter, 1 cup sour milk, 1 cup each raisins, cur- 
rants, and nuts ; 1 teaspoon cinnamon, cloves, and all- 
spice ; 1 teaspoon soda, 3 cups flour. No eggs are re- 
quired. If one does not care for the cloves or the 
allspice, make up the amount in cinnamon. 

Holt, Mo. Mrs. Thompson. 

Fruit Cake. — 1 cup butter, 2 cups brown sugar, 
1 cup sour milk, 4 cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking soda, 2 
teaspoons cinnamon, 1 teaspoon cloves, y^, teaspoon 
allspice, 4 eggs, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup currants, 1 cup 
dates, 1 cup nuts, 1 cup citron. Bake II/2 hours. 

Mrs. E. F. Unland. 

Fruit Cake. — 1 lb. brown sugar, 1 lb. butter, 1 lb. 
flour, 2 lbs. raisins, 2 lbs. currants, 1/2 lb. citron, 9 eggs, 
1 nutmeg, tablespoon cloves, tablespoon allspice, I/2 
pint brandy, 2 teaspoons baking powder. After baking, 
while yet warm, pour over cake a half pint wine. 

Mrs. Ben Mattheessen. 

Fruit Cake. — 14 pound sugar, % pound flour, % 
pound seeded raisens, % pound shelled pecans, ^4 
pound butter, % nutmeg, 3 eggs, y^ teaspoon baking 
powder, just a little brandy. Flour, raisins and nuts. 

House-Keeper's Fruit Cake. — 1 cup butter, 2 cups 
sugar, 31/2 cups flour, 1/2 cup New Orleans molasses, 4 
eggs, beaten separately; y^, teaspoon soda, stirred in 
molasses, until it foams ; 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 1 tea- 
spoon cloves, 1 nutmeg, 1 lb. seeded raisins, 1 lb. cur- 
rants, % lb. citron. Mix butter, eggs, molasses, and 
spices thoroughly; add i/o of the flour, and, with the 
remaining flour, the currants and raisins. Put a layer 
of cage in the baking dish, then a layer of citron, cut in 
thin strips; another layer of cake, and citron; finish 
with cake, and bake in a slow oven 2^/0 hours, or until 
it will not stick to a broom splint. It is very stiff. 



CAKES 155 

particularly when made in winter, as there is no liquid 
but the eggs and molasses. 

Mrs. L. J. Albertsen. 

Fruit Cake (White). — 1/2 eiiP butter (scant), 1 cup 
sugar, 1/^ cup milk, 1% cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, whites of 4 eggs, % teaspoon vanilla, 1/2 cup 
chopped, seeded raisins, 2 ounces citron, and Y^ cup 
walnut meats, chopped fine. In mixing, reserve 1 table- 
spoon flour to use with fruit. 

Miss Louise Frey. 

Fruit Cake by Measure. — 2 scant teacupfuls of 
butter, 3 cupfuls of dark-brown sugar, 6 eggs, Avhites 
and yolks beaten separately ; 1 lb. of raisins, seeded ; 
1 lb. of currants, 1 lb. of dates, i/^ lb. of citron, 14 cup- 
ful of cooking molasses, Yo cupful of sour milk. Stir 
'the butter and sugar to cream ; add to that I/2 a grated 
nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, 1 teaspoon- 
ful of cloves ; add the molasses and sour milk. Stir all 
well, then put in the beaten yolks of eggs, a wine glass 
of brandy ; add 4 cupfuls of sifted flour, with the beaten 
whites of eggs. Dissolve a level teaspoonful of soda, 
and stir in thoroughly. Mix the fruit together, and 
stir into it 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of flour, then stir 
it in the cake. Butter 2 common-sized baking tins, line 
them with letter paper, well-buttered; and bake in a 
moderate oven 2 hours. 

Mrs. Hermine Schurman. 

Mrs. Donald Reardon. 
Miss Grace Siebens. 

Foundation for Cake. — 2 cups sugar, % cup butter, 
creamed together and add 4 eggs well beaten, 1 cup 
water, 3 cups flour, 2 heaping teaspoons baking powder, 
1 teaspoon vanilla — for white cake leave out the yolks 
— for spice cake add 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 1 tea- 
spoon cloves and 1 teaspoon allspice — for chocolate 
cake add Y-t cake Baker's Chocolate. Bake in layers 
or sheet thirty minutes. 

Mrs. Urban Albertsen. 



156 CAKES 

Fluffy Ruffle Cake. — 2 cups sugar, 1/2 cup of 
butter, 21/2 cups flour, 1 cup of sweet milk, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, whites of 5 eggs. Beat sugar 
and butter to a cream. Add flour, milk, eggs, beaten 
to a stiff froth ; and last add baking powder and flavor- 
ing. Bake in 3 layers. 

Icing". — Boil together 15 tablespoonfuls of .sugar 
with water, to dissolve it ; boil until syrup threads. 
Pour over the beaten whites of 3 eggs, and .stir con- 
stantly until cool. Let icing get stiff, and spread with 
hot chocolate in which has been dissolved I/2 teaspoon- 
ful of gum arable. 

Mrs. John W. Smith. 

Feather Cake. — 4 eggs, beaten separately; II/4 cups 
granulated sugar, % cup butter, % cUp water, 2i/^ 
cups Swansdown cake flour, 2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, flavor to taste. Sift flour once, then measure, add 
baking powder, and sift three times ; cream butter 
and sugar thoroughly ; beat yolks to a very stiff froth, 
and stir in; whip whites until very stiff; add water, 
then whites of eggs; then flour, then flavor and stir 
very hard. Put in slow oven at once ; will bake in 30 
to 40 minutes. Good for layers with any kind of light 
filling. 

Gold Cake. — 1 cup sugar, % cup butter, yolks of 
8 eggs, Y2 cup sweet milk, 2 good cups flour, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla, 11/2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Quiney, 111. Mrs. Wm. Balcke. 

Graham Cracker Cake. — % cup butter, 1 cup sugar. 
2 eggs, 1 cup milk, 24 graham crackers, % cup chopped 
pecans, 3 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon of 
vanilla. Cream, butter and sugar, add the yellow of 
eggs well beaten, milk and vanilla. Crush graham 
crackers to flour, mix with the chopped pecans and add 
to the first mixture, then add the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in layers. 

St. Louis, Mo. Miss Hazel Nahlick. 

Hickory Nut Cake. — 2 cups sugar, % cup butter, 
4 eggs, 1 cup water, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking 



CAKES 157 

powder, 1% cups nuts, rolled in some of the flour. 
Cream sugar and butter. Add beaten yolks ; then water 
and flour and nuts. Last, the beaten whites. Bake in 
loaf or layers. 

Peoria, 111. Anna Zimmer. 

Leather Cake 

Burned Syrup. — Cook one cup of granulated sugar 
until it smokes. Turn burner low and add one cup of 
boiling water, cook until it almost spins a hair. Keep 
warm until ready to use. 

Cake Part. — 1/2 cup butter, 1^^ cups granulated 
sugar, creamed ; 1 cup warm water, 2 cups flour, 2 egg 
yolks. Beat for five minutes and then add 3 table- 
spoons burned syrup, 1 teaspoon baking powder in 1/0 
cup more of flour, 3 egg whites. 

Icing. — % cup butter, 2 cups powdered sugar 
creamed ; stiffly beaten white of one egg, 2 tablespoons 
burned sugar syrup, 1 teaspoon vanilla, ^ cup nut 
meats, 

Mrs. Edward Mulvey. 

Loaf Cake. — 1 cup sugar, % cup butter, creamed; 
% cup milk, 3 eggs, 2^2 cups flour, 1 cup raisins, grated 
rind of 1 lemon, 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Champaign, 111. Mrs. A. Wascher. 

Mixed Layer Cake. — White part: 1 cup sugar, i/o 
cup butter, whites of 3 eggs, beaten stiff ; 1 teaspoonf ul 
vanilla, 2 cups flour, li/^ teaspoonfuls baking poAvder, 
V2 cup milk. Dark part : l^/o cups sugar, % cup butter, 
% cup sweet milk, yolks of 3 eggs, 1 cup raisins, 3 cups 
flour, 1 teaspoonful of allspice, cinnamon, and nutmeg ; 
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Filling. — Whites of 2 eggs, beaten stiff. Use pow- 
dered sugar. Add a little cream or milk, 1 cup of 
chopped nuts and raisins. Stir this into the frosting. 
If too stiff, add a little more milk. Spread between 
layers. 

Miss Mary Stofpregen. 

May Day Cake. — Cream together 1^^ cups sugar 
and ^ cup butter. Add, alternately, % cup sweet milk. 



158 CAKES 

1 teaspoon vanilla, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. Fold into this the stiffly-beaten whites of 4 
eggs. Do not bake too slowly. 

Filling. — 1 cup sugar, % cup sweet cream. Do 
not cook too hard; spread between layers, sprinkle 
with cocoanut. This is a very delicious cake. 

Mrs. Henry Behrenshausen. 

Marble Cake. — Light part: 1 cup white sugar, i/2 
cup butter, 2 cups flour, whites of 3 eggs, 1^2 tea- 
spoons baking powder. 

Dark part: l^ cup brown sugar, y^ cup molasses, 
1/4 cup l3utter, 1/4 cup milk, 1/2 nutmeg, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon, 1 teaspoon allspice, yolks of 3 eggs, 2 cups 
of flour, 11/^ teaspoons baking powder. Butter your 
tin, and put in the light and dark batter in alternate 
tablespoonfuls. 

Mrs. Tina Meinen. 

Mocha Cake, Walnut. — 1 cup sugar, i/4 cup butter, 
1 cup nuts, 1% cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 
1/^ cup strong coffee, whites of 3 eggs, and teaspoon 
vanilla. Cream sugar and butter, then add coffee. 
Sift flour and baking powder 4 times, then sift into the 
above mixture ; add nuts, and lastly, whites of eggs, 
beaten stiff, and flavoring. Will make 2 small layers. 

Mrs. G. N. Weber. 

Mountain Pound Cake. — 1 cup butter, 21/2 cups 
sugar, 1 cup milk, 6 eggs, II/2 teaspoons baking powder, 
4 cups flour, 1 teaspoon lemon. 

Washington, D. C. Mrs. Lena Lunenburg. 

Nut Cake. — 2 cups of sugar, 1 cup butter, creamed 
together; 1 cup sweet milk, 3 cups sifted flour, 3 tea- 
spoons baking powder, the whites of 6 eggs, well- 
beaten; % cup of English walnut meats; stir well 
through cake. Flavor. 

Mrs. Phil. Adolph. 

Nut Cake. — i/o cup of butter, 1% cups of granu- 
lated sugar, % cup milk, 2 cups of flour, 2 level tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, 1 cup nut meats chopped 
fine ; whites of 4 eggs, beaten dry. Sift flour and baking 



CAKES 159 

powder together 3 times. Cream the butter, add the 
sugar; then, alternately, the milk and the flour mix- 
ture; lastly, the whites of eggs and the nut meats. 
Bake in a sheet in a shallow pan 30 or 40 minutes. 
When cool, cut in squares, cover with icing, and dec- 
orate with whole nut meats. 

Chocolate Icing. — 1 cup granulated sugar, I/2 square 
of bitter chocolate, 14 cup of water, white of 1 egg, 
beaten dry; V2 teaspoonful of extract. 

Mrs. John W. Smith. 

Nut and Raisin Cake. — 1 cup sugar, I/2 cup milk, 
1 cup butter, 1% cups flour, 2 eggs, 1 generous teaspoon 
baking powder. Mix in usual way. Have ready I/2 
cup seeded raisins, i/^ cup chopped walnuts. Take a 
deep pan and put in layer of dough, then layer of nuts 
and raisins ; then dough again, nuts and raisins ; lastly 
dough. Make a frosting of juice of i/^ lemon and 
enough confectionery sugar to make a nice, smooth 
frosting. 

Elizabeth Waechteb. 

One-Eg-g-, or Quick Cake. — Warm a crock, put in 
iy2 cups flour, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon baking powder ; 
mix. Put 1 egg in a cup, fill V2 full soft butter, fill full 
with milk. Pour into the mixture, and beat 5 minutes. 
Add flavoring. Bake in loaf or layers. 

Verbene Bergner. 

Orange Cake. — 1 cup sugar, % cup of butter, 3 
eggs (beaten separately), I/2 teaspoonful salt, grated 
peel of 1 large orange, i/o cup of strained orange juice, 
iy2 cups sifted flour, li/^ teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Cream butter and sugar. Next add orange juice and 
peel ; then flour, baking powder, and salt. Last of all, 
stir in very lightly the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. 
Bake about 20 minutes to Yo hour in a moderately- 
quick oven. 

For Frosting. — % cup of orange juice, the grated 
rind of 1 orange and 1 lemon, and 2 cups of confection- 
ers'- sugar. 

Mrs. 0. D. Ehrlicher. 



160 CAKES 

Orange Cake. — Beat yolk of 7 eggs with 2 cups 
granulated sugar; then add the juice of 2 oranges (hav- 
ing grated the rind), then add whites of eggs (beaten 
very light), and 2 cups flour, 1 even teaspoon baking 
powder. Mix all together, and bake in 3 layers. Use 
boiled icing, and add the grated rind of orange. Makes 
a rich cake. Mrs. Poppen. 

Ice Water Sponge Cake. — 1% cups of sugar, 11/2 
cups of flour, 3 eggs, i/^ cup of ice water, li/^ teaspoons 
of baking powder. Beat yolks and sugar with 1 table- 
spoon of water thoroughly. Better than any 10-egg 
cake. 

Chicago, 111. Mrs. R. W. Brett. 

Pecan Cake. — 1 lb. sugar, i/^ lb. butter, 1 lb. flour, 

1 lb. raisins, 1 lb. pecan meats, 1 grated nutmeg, 1/2 cup 
brandy, 6 eggs (beaten separately), 2 rounding tea- 
spoons baking powder. Cream the butter and sugar; 
add the beaten yolks, then the brandy and nutmeg; 
next the flour and baking powder (retain part of flour 
for raisins and nut meats, which are left unbroken), 
and last, add the stiffly-beaten whites. Bake in a loaf 
in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Phil. H. Sipfle. 

Pink and White Layer Cake. — 1 cup butter, 1 cup 
milk, 2 cups sugar ; beat to a cream : I/2 cup cornstarch, 

2 cups flour, 2 heaping teaspoons of baking powder, 
well-sifted with the flour; whites of 6 eggs, beaten stiff; 
stir together. This makes 4 layers. Separate enough 
to make 2 pink layers with fruit coloring. 

Spring Lake, 111. Mrs. C. F. Budke. 

Plain Cake. — 114 cups sugar, % cup butter, 3 eggs, 
iy2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, V2 cup 
water. Stir in with the flour gradually. 

Mrs. K. Epkens. 

Plain Cake. — Beat 1 egg in a cup, and fill the cup 
with milk ; add 1 teacupful sugar, and thicken with 
2 teacupfuls flour, into which has been mixed 1 tea- 
spoonful baking powder. 

Mrs. Theressa Rust. 



CAKES 161 

Pork Cake. — 1 lb. salt pork, 2 cupfuls boiling water, 
2 cupfuls dark-brown sugar, 1 cupful molasses, 1 tea- 
spoon soda, 1 lb. raisins, 1 lb. chopped dates, i/4 lb. 
citron, shaved fine ; 4 cupfuls flour, 1 teaspoon each of 
cinnamon, cloves, allspice, and nutmeg. Chop the pork 
so fine as to look almost like lard ; pour on it the boiling 
water; add the sugar, molasses, and soda. Stir in 
raisins, dates, and citron. Add flour with spices ; pour 
the batter in loaf cake pan, and bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. Clara Koch Wonn. 

Potato Caramel Cake. — % cup of butter, 2 cups 
sugar, 2 cups flour, 1 cup hot, mashed potatoes, % cup 
sweet milk, 4 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup 
grated chocolate, or 2 squares, melted ; 1 cupful 
chopped English walnuts, 1 teaspoonful each of cloves, 
cinnamon, and nutmeg. Cream butter, sugar, and yolks 
of eggs. Add milk, mashed potatoes, spices, and 
melted chocolate. Sift the baking powder in the flour, 
and beat whites of eggs to stiff froth. Stir the sifted 
flour into batter, and lastly, beat in whites. Add nuts 
last. Makes a large loaf. 

Chicago, 111. Miss Brett. 

Chicago, 111. Mrs. Fred Epkens. 

Potato Cake. — 1 lb. cooked, rubbed potatoes; % 
lb. sugar, 12 eggs (whites beaten separately), 1 grated 
lemon, juice of 2 lemons, i/4 lb. almonds, 1 teaspoonful 
rose water, 

Mrs. C. H. Schurman. 

Prune Cake. — 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 
V2 cup butter, l^ teaspoon cloves, 1^2 cups flour, i/^ 
teaspoon nutmeg, 1 teaspoon soda, 4 tablespoons sour 
milk, 3 eggs, reserving white of 1 for frosting ; 1 cup of 
cooked prunes, cut fine. Cake is delicious. Will keep 
moist for weeks, even in hot weather. 

Grace Siebens. 

Quick Cake. — 1/3 cup soft butter, 2 eggs, 11/3 cups 
brown sugar, I/2 cup milk, 1% cups flour, 3 teaspoons 
baking powder, % teaspoon cinnamon, ^ teaspoon 



162 CAKES 

nutmeg, i/o lb. dates, cut in pieces ; or raisins and nuts 
can be substituted. Put all ingredients in a crock at 
the same time, and stir 3 minutes. Bake in moderate 
oven 35 or 40 minutes. 

Mrs. R. D. Lackman. 

Quissel Cake. — Cream l^ cup butter with 1% cups 
of sugar. Beat very lightly to a cream 3 eggs and l^ 
cup of milk, 11/4 cups of flour, 1 teaspoon of baking 
powder. Dissolve 6 level tablespoons of grated bitter 
chocolate in 2 tablespoons of scalding milk. Add this 
to dough lastly. 

Miss Anna Rust. 
Mrs. Lena Young. 

Raisin Cake. — II/2 cups seeded raisins ; cover with 
boiling water and simmer 20 minutes ; i/i cup butter, % 
cup sugar, 1 beaten 'egg, 1^ cup water from raisins, 
1^/2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 
grating of nutmeg. Mix as usual, and bake in sheet I/2 
hour. 

Domestic Science, Bradley Institute. 

Peoria, 111. Miss Helen M. Day. 

Spice Cake. — 1 cup brown sugar, i/^ cup butter, 
% cup molasses, I/2 cup sour milk, 3l^ cups flour, 4 
eggs, 1 teaspoon soda, 1/2 teaspoon each of cinnamon, 
cloves, and nutmeg ; to make a kind of a fruit cake, add 
a cupful of raisins and currants. 

Topeka, 111. , Mrs. C. E. Himmel. 

Spice Cake. — 11/2 cups of sugar, % cup butter, 3 
eggs, 1 teaspoon soda — add it to cup of sour milk; 2 
teaspoons cinnamon, I/2 teaspoon allspice. ^4 teaspoon 
cloves, 14 of a nutmeg, 2 cups of flour. Mix ingredients 
as for other cake, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. p. Reinhardt, Jr. 

Spice Cake. — 2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 
3I/2 cups flour (after sifting), 3 level teaspoons baking 
powder, 5 eggs. Cream sugar and butter, then add 1 
egg at a time and beat thoroughly ; then add milk and 
flour alternately, and add spices and baking powder 
to flour, and sift at least 5 times ; 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 



CAKES 163 

% teaspoon cloves, V2 teaspoon nutmeg, V4 teaspoon 
allspice. Bake in layers, and use white filling:. 

Mrs. Lena Young. 
Spice Cake. — % cup butter, 2 cups dark brown sugar, 
5 eggs, reserve whites of 2 for icing, 1 cup sour milk, 

1 level teaspoon soda, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons each of 
cinnamon and nutmeg, % teaspoon each of cloves and 
allspice, 1 cup raisins, cream butter and sugar, add 
beaten yolks, add sour milk and soda flour and spices 
and floured raisins, lastly the beaten whites. Bake in 
layers and put together with boiled frosting. 

Warrenton, Mo. Mrs. Schwarz. 

Spice Fruit Cake. — 2 cups C sugar, I/2 cup butter, 
4 eggs (save wjiites of 2), 1 cup raisins, and 1 cup nuts, 
or 1 cup raisins and 1 cup currants; 1 cup sour milk, 
1/2 teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves, ginger and all- 
spice ; 2 cups flour (good measure), i/^ teaspoon soda, 
dissolved in boiling water. 

Mrs. John Bl^me. 

Spice Cake, Without "Eggs. — 2 cups of sour milk, 

2 cups of sugar, % cup of butter, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 
1 teaspoon cloves, 2 teaspoons soda, 3I/2 cups flour, 
sifted 3 times ; 1 lb. raisins. Cream the butter and sugar ; 
add the milk, into which the soda has been dissolved ; 
add spices and flour. Beat hard before adding the 
raisins. May be baked in layers and spread with 
chocolate filling or icing, or may be baked in a loaf. 

Mrs. C. E. Schneider. 

Snow Balls. — 1 cupful of butter, 2 cupfuls of white 
sugar, 1 cupful of sweet mjlk, 3 cupfuls of flour, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, whites of 5 eggs, well- 
beaten. Bake in deep, square tins. The day after bak- 
ing, cut in 2-inch squares, paring the outside off so as 
to leave it all white. Take each on a fork, frost on all 
sides, and roll in freshly-grated cocoanut. 

Mrs. Rudolph Frey. 

Strawberry Jam Cake. — 1 cup sugar, V2 cup butter, 

3 eggs, beaten separately; 1 cup strawberry jam, l^ 
cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 2V2 cups flour, 1 tea- 



164 CAKES 

spoon cinnamon, % nutmeg, grated. Cream butter and 
sugar; add the beaten egg yolks, and continue beat- 
ing. Add next the jam and a little flour to bind the 
mixture. Then add the sour milk in which soda has 
been stirred. Add the remainder of flour, beating well. 
Add spices and then fold in the stiffly-beaten egg 
whites. Bake in shallow pans about 35 minutes. 

Mrs. p. H. Massey. 

Surprise Cake. — 1 cup sugar, i/o cup butter, 2 eggs, 
1 cup milk, 21/2 cups Swansdown Cake Flour, 1 heap- 
ing teaspoon baking powder and flavoring to taste. 
Put the mixture in gem pans and in the center of each 
cake put a raisin which has been flavored. 

Surprise Cake. — 1 egg, 1 cup of sugar, I/2 cup of 
butter, 1 cup of milk, 2 cups of flour, 2 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, a pinch of salt ; flavoring to suit the taste. 
Bake in layers. Put together with a boiled frosting or a 
filling as follows : Pare and grate 3 apples, % cup sugar, 
1 egg. Mix all, and cook, stirring while cooking. Flavor 
with lemon. 

Lincoln, III. Miss Irma Esders. 

Sunshine Cake. — Whites of 8 eggs, yolks of 4, 1^/4 
cups granulated sugar, 1 cup Swansdown Cake Flour, 
1/^ teaspoonful cream tartar, a pinch of salt added to 
whites of eggs before whipping ; flavor to taste. Sift, 
measure and set aside Swansdown Cake Flour and 
sugar ; separate the eggs, putting the whites in the mix- 
ing bowl and the yolks in a small bowl ; beat yolks to a 
very stifiP froth ; whip whites to foam ; add cream tar- 
tar and whip until very stift'; add sugar to the whites 
and fold in ; then yolks and fold in ; flavor and fold 
in; then Swansdown Cake Flour and fold lightly 
through. Put in moderate oven at once ; will bake in 
about 25 minutes. 

Sunshine Cake. — Yolks of 12 eggs, 11/2 cups gran- 
ulated sugar, lyo cups pastry flour, 1 teaspoon baking 
powder, 1 teaspoon lemon extract, 12 tablespoons boil- 
ing water. Sift the sugar and flour 5 times. Beat eggs, 
add sugar, flour, last water. 

Mrs. Ben Mattheessen. 



CAKES 165 

Sunshine Cake. — Whites of 7 small eggs, yolks of 
5, 1 cup granulated sugar, % cup flour, Vs teaspoon 
cream of tartar, pinch of salt, added to whites of eggs 
before whipping. Sift, measure, and set aside flour and 

Velvet Sponge Cake. — 2 cups sugar, 6 eggs, leaving 
out the whites of 3 ; 1 cup boiling hot water, 21/2 cups 
flour, 1 tablespoon baking powder in the flour. Beat 
the yolks a little, and add the sugar, and beat 15 min- 
utes. Add the 3 beaten whites and the cup of boiling 
water, just before the flour. Flavor with a teaspoon 
lemon extract. Bake in 3 layers. For a nice filling use 
1 pint cream, and whip well, and sweeten. Then add 1 
cup chopped" nuts, 

Emden, 111. Anna Steen Zimmer. 

Vanilla Cake. — Rub 1 cupful of sugar and V2 cup 
of butter to a cream ; add the well-beaten whites of 3 
eggs, % cup of sweet milk, 2 good cups of flour, 1 tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Bake in 2 layers in a hot 
oven for 15 minutes. 

For frosting between the layers, beat the yolks of 
the 3 eggs until they are thick; add 1 cupful of pow- 
dered sugar, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Spread between 
the layers and on the top and sides of the cake. 

Mrs. Rudolph Frey. 

Walnut Cake. — ly^ cups brown sugar, % cup 
butter, 1% cups flour (sifted 3 or 4 times), 4 eggs, 2 
heaping teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup sweet milk, 
V2 cup chocolate, 1 cup chopped walnuts, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon, % teaspoon each allspice and cloves ; vanilla. 
Stir chocolate in butter and sugar, creamed. 

Harpster, Idaho. Miss Jennie Gribble. 

Watermelon Cake. — White part: 2 cups sugar, % 
cup butter, % cup sweet milk, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, whites of 5 eggs. 

Red part : 1 cup red sugar, I/3 cup butter, y^ cup 
sweet milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 
V2 lb. raisins, yolks of 5 eggs. 

Mrs. H. Roos. 



166 CAKES 

White Cake.— 11/2 eiips of gjrannlated sugar, 1/2 cup 
of butter 1 cup of cold water, 3 even cups of pastry 
flour, sifted 3 times before measuring; 2 rounded tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, whites of 4 eggs. Flavor 
slightly with lemon or vanilla. Cream the butter and 
sugar,' add 1/3 of the water with 1 cup of flour. Beat 
thoroughly, and add second cup of flour; continue beat- 
ing. Into the last cup of flour sift the baking powder, 
and add as the others; then the rest of the water. 
Flavor, and then cut and fold in the stiffly-beaten 
whites very carefully. 

Cream Filling. — Into 1 cup of stiffly-whipped cream 
stir 1 cup chopped (not fine) nut meats. Either pecans 
or English walnuts. Spread between and on top of 
layer. Mrs. Adolph Nierstheimer. 

White Cake. — 11/2 cups sugar, 1/2 cup butter, 1 cup 
milk, whites of 6 eggs, beaten stiff ; 3 cups flour, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Boiled Frosting. — 2 cups sugar, enough water to 
dissolve it. Let it boil until it threads from the spoon. 
Beat the whites of 2 eggs stiff. Pour the boiling sugar 
into the eggs, beating until it thickens. When cold, 
add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Miss Mary Stoffregen. 

White Cake. — Sift 3 times 1 cup sugar, II/2 cups 
flour and 1 teaspoon baking powder. Break the whites 
of 2 eggs into a cup, add to that enough soft butter to 
make the cup 1/2 full, then enough milk to fill the cup. 
Beat this into the sifted flour, etc,; beat all very hard 
for about 10 minutes. Flavor to taste. This makes a 
small, but very good, white cake. The above makes 
a good cake by using the yolks of 3 eggs instead of the 
whites of 2. Mrs. C. E. Schneider. 

Yellow Cake. — 1 teacupful of sugar, with I/2 the 
quantity of butter ; add the yolks of 4 eggs, beaten ; I/2 
a teacupful of milk, and 21^ teacupfuls of flour, sifted 
with 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor with 
vanilla. Senia DeBoer. 



CAKES 167 

Blackberry Jam Cake. — 1 coffee cup sugar, V^ cup 
butter, 1 cup blackberry jam, 1% cups flour, 3 eggs, 1 
teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon all- 
spice, V2 teaspoon nutmeg, 4 tablespoons sour cream or 
milk. Stir together quickly, adding sour milk and soda 
last. Bake in 2 layers, and put together with icing. A 
good cake to keep. 

Mrs. C. W. Haynes. 

Blitz Cake. — 1 cup powdered sugar, 1/2 cup of but- 
ter, 1 cup of flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 4 eggs, 
beaten separately ; 1 teaspoon lemon extract. Bake in 
long pan, sprinkle with powdered sugar, a little cinna- 
mon, and chopped almonds or cocoanut, and put in 
oven to bake. 

Mrs. Louis Zinger 

Walnut Mocha Cake. — 1 cup sugar, i/i cup butter, 
1 cup nuts, 1% cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 
% cup strong coffee, whites of 3 eggs, and teaspoon 
vanilla. Cream sugar and butter, then add coffee. 
Sift flour and baking powder 4 times, then sift into the 
above mixture ; add nuts, and lastly, whites of eggs, 
beaten stiff, and flavoring. Will make 2 small layers. 

Mrs. G. N. Weber. 



168 TORTE 

Bread Torte. — % cup sugar, 1 cup bread-crumbs, 
sifted; 1/4 lb. almonds (not blanched), 5 eggs, whites 
and yolks beaten separately; 1 teaspoon baking powder. 
Stir sugar and yolks thoroughly; add almonds, which 
have been put through a meat grinder; next, bread- 
crumbs, to which baking powder has been added ; and 
lastly, the beaten egg whites. Bake in 4 shallow cube 
tins. 

Filling. — A pastry cream consisting of boiling milk, 
thickened ; to this add 2 eggs, well-beaten, and sugar. 
Flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. H. M. Ehrlicher. 

Chocolate Torte. — % cup butter, beat to a foam; 
2 cups sugar, i^ cup grated almonds, and 1 cup grated 
chocolate ; 1 cup sour milk, 5 eggs, beaten separately ; 
1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1/4 
teaspoon soda in milk. Bake in loaf. 

Mrs. L. Hannon. 

Date Torte. — 1/2 lb. dates, I/2 lb- English walnuts, 
1 cup sugar, 3 tablespoons bread-crumbs, 4 eggs, beaten 
separately; 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Bake 1^ 
hour. Serve with whipped cream, or any sauce desired. 

Tremont, 111. " Mrs. Bird. 

Mandel Torte. — 1 dozen eggs, 2 cups powdered sugar, 
1 tablespoon brandy, 1 small tablespoon vanilla, 1 lb. 
almonds. Beat sugar and yolks of eggs thorougldy; 
add ground, unblanched almonds, brandy, vanilla, and 
last, the beaten whites of eggs. Bake in moderate 
oven 1 hour, and spread with soft frosting. 

Clinton, Iowa." Mrs. L. P, Saenger. 



PUDDING SAUCES 

"I crack my brain to find out tempting sauces, 
And raise fortifications in the pastry. ' ' 

Cream Sauce. — i/^ pint cream, % cup of sugar, 1/3 
cup of milk, y2 teaspoon of vanilla, 1 egg. Beat egg 
until stiff, and add milk, sugar, and vanilla, and lastly, 
add cream. 

Lincoln, 111. Mrs. S. Rithaber. 

Froth for Pudding. — 1 cup sugar, I/4 cup butter, 
iy2 tablespoons corn starch, 14 piut boiling water, 1 
cup red cherries and juice, 1 tablespoon of jelly, 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla, 1 teaspoon orange. Put corn starch in 
sugar, and cream sugar and butter ; add boiling water ; 
let boil slowly; when thick, add cherries, jelly, and 
flavoring. Mrs. Edward Spengler. 

Hard Sauce. — Cream y^ cup butter ; add, gradually, 
1 cup powdered sugar, 3 or 4 tablespoons boiling water, 
1 at a time. Beat for 5 minutes. Add 1 teaspoon 
vanilla and beaten egg white. Put in serving dish, and 
set in cold place. The water and egg white may be 
omitted. Mrs. A. A. Sipple. 

Orange Sauce. — 3 egg whites, 1 cup of powdered 
sugar, 2 oranges, juice and rind; 1 lemon, juice. Beat 
the whites of eggs until stifl: ; add sugar and fruit juice, 
and beat well. 

Lincoln, 111. Miss Gusta Rithaber. 

Sauce for Pluni Pudding. — Cream together a cup- 
ful of sugar and lA a cupful of butter ; when light and 
creamy, add the well-beaten yolks of 4 eggs. Stir into 
this 1 wine glass of vv^ine or brandy, a pinch of salt, and 
1 large cupful of hot cream or rich milk. Beat this 
mixture well ; place it in a sauce pan over the fire ; stir 
it until it cooks sufficiently to thicken like cream. Be 
sure and not let it boil. Mrs. Frank Heckman._ 

170 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

* * The proof of the pudding is in the eating. ' ' 
"And first they ate the white puddings, 
And syne, they ate the black. ' ' — Child 's Ballads, 

HOT PUDDINGS 

Angel Bread. — Whites of 6 eggs, beaten very stiff. 
Fold in 1 cup of sifted, granulated sugar and % cup 
chopped nuts, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Bake li/4 hours in a greased pan. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

Malinda Kreigsman. 

Apple Charlotte. — Place into a well-buttered dish 
slices of dry coffee cake, or light bread ; cover with 
quarters of apples that cook quickly. Sprinkle sugar 
and cinnamon ; add water to moisten bread, and bake. 
Serve with cream. 

Quincy, 111. Mrs. Wm. Balcke. 

Apple Dumplings. — li/^ cups sifted flour, i/^ tea- 
spoon salt, 3 level teaspoons baking powder, Yi cup 
shortening, about % cup of milk, apples. Fill the cups 
of the buttered muffin pan with pared and sliced apples ; 
sprinkle with salt, and turn 2 or 3 tablespoons of water 
into each cup. Sift together 3 times the flour, salt, and 
baking powder ; work in the shortening, and mix to a 
soft dough with the milk. Drop the dough from a spoon 
with the apples in the cup, giving it a smooth exterior. 
Let them bake about 25 minutes. Serve with sauce, 
or cream and sugar. Bertha Voll. 

Apple and Lemon Pudding. — Make a cream of 1 
cup of sugar, 1 cup of hot water, the juice and grated 
rind of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoon of butter, and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of corn starch, moistened with water ; add the 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs, and cook till thick. Have ready 
1 pint of smooth apple sauce and 2 pints of stale sponge 

172 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 173 

cake, or bread, cut in small cubes; arrange the cake, 
apple sauce, and lemon cream in alternate layers in a 
buttered pudding pan. Bake 30 minutes. Beat the 
whites of the 2 eggs, add 2 tablespoons of powdered 
sugar and a little lemon juice, and spread over pudding. 
Return to oven till brown. Serve with cream. Good 
hot or cold. 

Mrs. a. W. Hinners. 

Apple Tapioca.— 1/4 cup MINUTE TAPIOCA, 2 cups 
boiling water, i^ cup sugar, ^^ teaspoon salt, grated 
nutmeg and 4 apples. Add tapioca and sugar to boil- 
ing salted water, cook in double boiler until trans- 
parent. Core and pare apples, arrange in buttered 
baking dish, fill cavities with sugar, sprinkle with 
nutmeg, pour tapioca over them and bake in a moder- 
ate oven until the apples are soft. Serve with cream 
or lemon sauce. Other fruits may be used in place of 
apples. 

Sauce to be used with apple tapioca — 1 cup sugar, 
2 tablespoons flour, 1 lemon, and 1 tablespoon butter, 
2 cups boiling water. 

Cora Albertsen. 

Apple Snow. — Peel and boil 6 good cooking apples 
in as little water as possible ; rub through a colander, 
and beat until light ; beat the whites of 3 eggs to a stiff 
froth, add sugar to taste ; beat until it looks like a dish 
of snow; add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla and serve with 
cream. 

Mrs. Frank Heckman. 

Apricots Souffle. — 1 cup canned apricots, 3 egg 
whites, % cup sugar, 6 drops almond extract. Rub 
apricots through sieve ; place in a sauce pan and bring 
to a boiling point; add sugar, extract and whites of 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth and mix well with the 
fruit. Turn into small molds that have been greased 
and sprinkled with sugar. Stand in a pan containing 
enough hot water to come half way up the sides of the 
molds, and bake until firm, about twenty minutes. 

Rose Zerwekh. 



174 PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

Apple Pudding. — Peel, core, and cut in halves 4 
or 5 apples, and place them in bottom of baking dish. 
Then rub tog-ether a tablespoon of butter and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour, and wet this mixture with about % 
cup cold water; then add 1 cup sugar, cinnamon, and 
a little salt. Pour over apples, and bake until tender. 
Serve with cream. 

Mrs. Charles Schaefer, 

Apricot Sauce. — Cook and sweeten 3 times as many 
Blue Ribbon apricots as apples; rub through a sieve, 
and serve with whipped cream. B. F. H. 

Apricot and Pineapple Marmalade. — 1 lb. dried 
apricots, 1 can grated pineapple (large size), 2 cups 
sugar. Wash and soak apricots over night, stew in 
same water until soft, and mash fine ; add pineapple 
and sugar, and boil 1 minute. May be used as sauce 
or served with whipped cream. 

Mrs. C. W. Haynes. 

Banana Whip. — 3 bananas, juice of 1 lemon, I/2 
package gelatine, 1 pint boiling water, % cup cold 
water, 1 cup sugar, pink coloring, if desired. Cut 
bananas fine ; add lemon juice, and beat to a creamy 
mass. Moisten gelatine in cold water ; add hot water, 
sugar, bananas, and coloring, and beat until foamy. 
Pour in sherbert glasses, and serve with cream. 

Delavan, 111. Mrs. A. R. Patzer. 

Bavarian Cream. — Heat I/2 cup milk and 1/3 cup 
sugar. When slightly cooled, add 14 l>ox of Cox or 1 
envelope of Minute gelatine, well dissolved in a little 
water. When the above ingredients cool and become 
thick like cream, then beat into 1 pint of cream, 
whipped to a froth and flavored with vanilla. 

Miss Sena Abrahams. 

Black Pudding. — 1 cup dark molasses, % cup butter, 
y2 cup sour milk, 2 cups of flour, % teaspoon of soda, 
1/2 teaspoon of cinnamon, i/o teaspoon of cloves. Place 
pudding in steamer, and when nearly steamed, set 
in a hot oven for about 5 minutes. 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 175 

Sauce for Above. — 1 cup of sugar, 1 egg, 1 cup 
boiling water, % cup of butter, 1 tablespoonful vinegar. 
Put sauce on stove, and let come to a boil, stirring all 
the time. Add a little vanilla. Be sure to cream sugar 
and butter well. 

Peoria, 111. Edna A. Thomas. 

Bread Pudding. — Soak bread in milk, not using too 
much bread ; add 1 pint of milk, 2 yolks of eggs, sugar, 
and vanilla to taste ; ^ cup raisins ; cocoanut may be 
added, if liked ; lastly, add the beaten whites of 2 eggs. 
Bake a fine brown, and serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. J. D. Jansen. 

Bread Pudding. — 1 scant pint cup of bread-crumbs, 
1 quart of milk, 1 cup of sugar, 1 lemon, 4 eggs, butter 
the size of a walnut. Grate the rind of the lemon, a 
little salt put in with the bread-crumbs ; then pour over 
the milk, boiling hot. When cold, add the yolks of the 
eggs, well-beaten. Beat all thoroughly together and 
bake. Make a frosting of the whites of eggs, add % 
cup of sugar, the juice of the lemon; spread over the 
top of the pudding, set in the oven until a delicate 
brown. 

Mrs. Bertha Reinhart. 

Carrot Pudding. — 1 cup grated carrots (raw), 1 
cup grated potatoes (raw), % cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 
1 cup flour. Stir 1 level teaspoonful soda into grated 
potatoes ; % teaspoonful each of nutmeg, cinnamon, 
cloves, and allspice ; 1 cup raisins, 1 cup currants. Stir 
all together, and steam 3 hours, or boil in mould. Serve 
with hard or lemon sauce. 

Alleghany, Cal. Mrs. Charles Wesley Smith. 

Cherry Pudding, — 1 cup flour, 1 egg, 1/2 cup sweet 
milk, 1 small teaspoon baking powder, I/2 cup sugar, 1 
cup cherries, fresh or canned. Put cherries in bottom 
of greased pan, pour batter over them, and steam 1 
hour. Serve with sauce, flavored with ch6rry juice. 

Mrs. Minnie Black. 

Cherry Pudding. — 1 cup sweet milk, 1 egg, 1 cup 
cherries, sprinkled with flour ; 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 



176 PUDDINGS AND RESSERTS 

powder, 1 tablespoon melted butter, i^ teaspoon of salt ; 
flour enough to make a stiff batter. Mix egg, milk, 
flour, baking powder, and butter together. Then whip 
in the cherries. Steam for 1 hour. 

Sauce for Above. — % cup sugar, 1 heaping tea- 
spoon flour. Cream together; then add 1 cup cherry 
juice and 1/2 cup of water. Cook until it boils. 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. J. W. Wood. 

Chocolate Pudding. — 1 quart milk, scalded ; 5 table- 
spoons chocolate, 4 teaspoons corn starch, 1 scant cup 
sugar, 1 egg yolk; boil, use egg white for frosting; 
flavor. 

Denver, Colo. Mrs. Hurst Wakefield. 

Charlotte Russe. — Separate yolks and whites of 4 
eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 pint of whipped cream, 1 table- 
spoonful of gelatine dissolved in 1/2 cup of hot water. 
Beat yolks and sugar together and add gelatine, the 
whipped cream, and the beaten whites. Put in mold 
lined with Lady Fingers and put in a cold place to 
harden. 

Mrs. Frank Albertsen. 

Charlotte Russe. — Whip 1 quart of rich cream to a 
stiif froth, and drain well on a nice sieve. To 1 scant 
pint of milk add 6 eggs, beaten very light; make very 
sweet ; flavor highly with vanilla. Cook over hot water 
till it is a thick custard. Soak 1 full ounce of Cox's 
gelatine in a very little water, and warm over hot 
water. When the custard is very cold, beat in lightly 
the gelatine and the whipped cream. Line the bottom 
of your mould with buttered paper, the side with 
sponge cake or lady fingers, fastened together with the 
white of an egg. Fill with the cream ; put in a cold 
place, or, in summer, on ice. To turn out, dip the mould 
for a moment in hot water. In draining the whipped 
cream, all that drips through can be re-whipped. 

Mrs. C. J. Aydelott. 

Corn Starch Pudding. — 2 cups milk, 3 tablespoons 
corn starch, dissolved in % cup cold milk or water ; 
sugar to taste, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, small piece of 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 177 

butter. Just before the milk comes to a boil, add dis- 
solved corn starch, sweeten to taste; then add butter. 
After beating a few minutes, add flavoring. Serve with 
canned fruit. If a chocolate pudding is desired, add 1 
heaping tablespoonful of cocoa to the corn starch be- 
fore dissolving. 

Mrs. W. J. Eden. 

Add chopped dates to an ordinary corn starch pud- 
ding. Delicious. 

Com Starch Pudding With Custard. — 1 quart of 
milk, take 1 pint, when boiling add 2 tablespoonfuls 
of corn starch, wet smoothly with a little cold water 
or milk; 1 tablespoonful of sugar; flavor with lemon, 
and let boil up 2 or 3 times ; then stir in the whipped 
whites of 2 eggs. Remove, and let cool. 

Make a custard of the remaining pint of milk and 
the yolks of 2 eggs. Cook it in a pail set in a kettle 
of boiling water. Sweeten to taste. Flavor same as the 
corn starch. When both are cold, pour custard over 
pudding, and serve. 

Mrs. 0. C. Hill. 

Cottage Pudding. — 1 tablespoon butter, 1 cup sugar, 
^ cup sour milk, I/2 teaspoonful baking soda, 2 eggs, 
beaten separately ; ll^ cups flour ; flavor to taste. Bake 
in a moderate oven. 

Sauce for Same. — 1 cup sugar, 1 cup boiling water, 
butter size of a walnut, juice of 1 lemon; thicken with 
a little corn starch. 

Miss Clara Albertsen. 

Cottage Pudding. — 1 pint flour, % cup sugar, 1 cup 
milk, 1 tablespoon of melted butter, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder; flavor with nutmeg. Mix ingredients, bake 
in a moderate oven, cut in slices, and serve warm with 
brandy sauce or lemon sauce. 

Mrs. D. F. Velde. 

Cocoanut Pudding. — 1 pint of milk with the yolks 
of 2 eggs, well-beaten ; 2 tablespoons of cocoanut, % 
cup of rolled cracker-crumbs, and flavoring to fancy. 
Bake I/2 hour, then spread over it a frosting made by 



178 PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

beating the whites of 2 eggs and a teacupful of sugar. 
Put in oven to brown. 

Senia DeBoer. 

Cranberry Fluff. — Cook 1 quart cranberries in 1/2 
pint of water till they pop open. Then run through a 
colander. Add as much sugar as you have pulp, and 
cook thick like marmalade. When cool, add the whites 
of 4 eggs, beaten stiff. Fold in well, and bake 10 
minutes. May be served with whipped cream and 
chopped nuts, or can be used with meat, 

Mrs. Will White. 

Cranberry Drop Dumplings. — 3 cups cranberries, 11/2 
cups sugar, % cup boiling water, 2 cups flour, 
% cup milk or cold water, 1 teaspoon baking 
powder and % teaspoon salt. Put the cranberries, 
sugar and boiling water into a sauce pan and set 
it on the back of the stove to keep hot, but not 
cook, while making the dumplings. Sift flour, baking 
powder and salt into a bowl. Stir in the milk or 
water, adding a little more, if necessary, to make a 
batter that will drop readily from the spoon. Bring 
fruit to front of stove, let it come quickly to a boil 
and drop batter by tablespoons over the top. Cover 
closely for twenty minutes. The dumplings must not 
be cooked on a very hot part of the stove as the cran- 
berries scorch easily. Serve hot with^the fruit as a 
sauce. 

Mrs. E. F. Hoffman. 

Creamed Almond Cake. — 11 eggs, 2 scant cups sugar, 
Vi pound ground almonds, 1 lemon, 14 soda crackers, 
1 teaspoon vanilla. Beat the yolks with sugar to a 
cream, add the crackers crushed to a flour with the 
almonds, rind and juice of 1 lemon. Then add vanilla 
and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Bake 
in a Van Dusen mold, in a moderate oven about 50 to 
60 minutes. Serve with whipped cream. 

St. Louis, Mo. Miss Hazel Nahlick. 

Cream Slices. — 1% cups sugar and i/^ cup water, 
boiled until it threads. Six eggs, beat whites until 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 179 

stiff and pour the syrup in and beat again. Add 
beaten yolks, 1 cup flour, 1 level teaspoon cream of 
tartar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Bake in two ungreased 
pans and vsrhen cool split and fill with custard. 

Filling. — 2 cups milk, scant cup sugar, 4 teaspoons 
corn starch, boil until thick and add small piece of 
butter and 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Icing. — 1 egg white, 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 table- 
spoon butter. 

Malinda Kreigsman. 

Custard, Baked. — 4 cupfuls scalded milk, 4 to 6 eggs, 
a few grains nutmeg, 1/2 cup sugar, i/i teaspoon salt. 
Beat eggs slightly, add sugar and salt, pour on, slowly, 
scalded milk; strain in buttered mould. Set in pan of 
hot water; sprinkle with nutmeg, and bake in a slow 
oven until firm, which may be readily determined by 
running a silver knife through custard — if knife comes 
out clean custard is done. During baking, care must 
be taken that water surrounding mould does not reach 
boiling point. 

Mrs. Thos. Reiken. 

Custard, Boiled. — 3 pints of milk, 2 cups of sugar, 3 
eggs. Place milk in double boiler, beat the eggs, and 
add sugar ; beat thoroughly. When milk boils, pour in 
eggs and sugar very slowly, and stir. Let boil until it 
thickens. Flavor to taste. 

Nashville, Tenn. Mrs. M. C. Whitworth. 

Dainty Dessert. — 1 can of shredded pineapple, 1 
cup of granulated sugar, 1 package of marshmallows 
(marshmallows must be fresh). Cut marshmallows in 
small pieces, mix with the pineapple and sugar, and let 
stand over night ; when ready to serve, add ^/^ pint of 
whipped cream, and serve with maraschino cherries. 

Chicago, 111. Mrs. I. C. Dutton. 

Dainty Dessert. — Soak % cup pearl tapioca; heat 
a pint of sweetened grape juice ; add tapioca, % cup 
sugar, cook till clear, then add the juice of y^ lemon 



180 PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

and the stiffly-beaten whites of 2 eggs. Serve with 
cream or custard sauce. 

Althea Lohman. 

Date Pudding.— 1 lb. dates, seeded and chopped; 
1 cup suet, chopped fine ; 1 cup sweet milk, 1 cup flour, 
1 heaping teaspoonful baking powder, pinch of salt. 
Steam 3 hours. Serve with hard or liquid sauce. 

Chicago, 111. Mrs. H. L. Phillips. 

Date Pudding. — 6 ounces of suet, chopped fine ; 6 
ounces of bread-crumbs, 6 ounces of sugar, 3 eggs, % 
teaspoon of cinnamon, Yo lb. of dates, seeded. Beat the 
sugar and eggs together ; then stir in the other ingre- 
dients. Steam for 2 hours, and serve with sauce. 

Sauce. — Yolks of 3 eggs, pulverized to thicken ; 
a wine glass of grape juice, and the well-beaten whites 
of the eggs, stirred in last. 

Mrs. D. H. Abrahams. 

Duchess Cream. — 1 cup "Minute" tapioca soaked 
in 1 pint of cold water. Add 2i/2 pints of boiling water, 
and cook until clear. Juice of 3 lemons, 21/2 cups 
granulated sugar, and whites of 3 eggs, beaten stiff; 
1 can grated pineapple. Beat all with egg beater for 
some time. Serve with whipped cream. Makes a 
gallon. 

Mrs. J. T. McKinstry. 

English Plum Pudding. — % coffee cupful suet, 1/2 
coffee cupful flour, i/^ coffee cupful raisins, % coffee 
cupful currants, % teaspoon salt, 1 egg, well-beaten ; 
Yo teaspoon cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg. Sweet milk 
to make a stiff' batter. Boil IY2 hours. A 5 cent salt 
sack is large enough for this measure. 

Tremont, 111. Mrs. Geo. Bird. 

Fig Pudding. — 21/3 cups stale bread-crumbs, 11/2 
cups of milk, 1/3 cup of melted butter, 1 cup of sugar, 
1/2 lb. of figs, finely chopped ; 2 eggs, % teaspoon of salt. 
Soak bread-crumbs in milk until soft ; add eggs, sugar, 
and salt, and mix with figs. Steam 3 hours if in large 
loaf, or 2 hours if in individual dishes. Stale cookies 
may be substituted for bread by diminishing quantity 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 181 

of sugar. Serve with whipped cream or hard sauce. 

Lenora. 
Figs With Cream. — 2 lbs, of figs ; soak in cold water 
over night. In morning put over slow fire, and let 
simmer until plump and tender. Add 1 cup of sugar 
and juice of 1 lemon. Cook a few minutes longer. 
Turn out to cool, and serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. H. E. Harvey. 

Float. — 2 cups of milk, 3 eggs, 3 tablespoons sugar, 
1 teaspoon vanilla. Mix the milk, yolk of eggs, sugar, 
and vanilla. Put on the fire and stir till it begins to 
thicken — do not boil. Remove from fire, and put the 
beaten whites with a little sugar on the top, and serve 
cold. 

Fried Cream. — Ingredients: 1 cup milk, a little 
more than lA cup of sugar, butter size of hickory nut, 
yolks of 3 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of corn starch, and 1 
of flour, % teaspoonful of vanilla. Boil the mixture as 
for corn starch pudding, after which pour on platter; 
after the mixture is cold, slice in pieces 3 inches long, 
and 2 inches wide, dip in eggs and cracker-crumbs, and 
fry in hot lard until the cream is a delicate brown. Set 
in oven for a few minutes, and sprinkle with powdered 
sugar. 

Mrs. F. L. Mahle. 

Fruit Salad. — 1 box strawberry Jello, cubes of pine- 
apple, halves of white grapes (seeded), candied cher- 
ries, pecan meats, sliced banana. Dissolve the Jello in 
1 pint boiling water, and pour into a small pan which 
has been rinsed with cold water. Set in cold place, and 
when it begins to jell, add the fruit and nuts, pushing 
them in place with a silver fork. When set, invert on 
a plate. 

Mrs. Irving M. Weimer. 

Fruit Salad. — 1 package gelatine soaked in 1 pint 
of cold water till soft ; then dissolve li/^ cups sugar in 1 
quart boiling water, and mix with gelatine. When cool, 
have ready 1 can of pears or pineapple, sliced fine, and 
3 oranges (remove all seeds, and slice fine), 1 cup of 



182 PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

English walnuts, 4 large bananas; mix, and set in a 
cool place to jell. 

Mrs. C. F. Grimmer. 

Fruit Salad. — Cut up white cherries, pineapple, and 
bananas; put in sherbet glasses, and pour over the juice 
of an orange and powdered sugar. 

Lena Kuhlman. 

Fruit Dessert. — 2 oranges, 2 bananas, I/2 or % lb. 
green grapes, cut in half and seeded ; about 8 marsh- 
mallows cut in quarters, % .cup pecan meats. Mix 
fruit and add 3 tablespoons granulated sugar ; let stand 
in cold place. Whip 1 cup cream, add 1 tablespoon 
powdered sugar; mix with fruit, add marshmallows 
and nuts. Serve with a cherry on top. 

Jacksonville, 111. Minnie Balcke. 

Heavenly Food. — 6 eggs, beaten separately; % lb. 
sugar, 1 cup nuts, 4 tablespoons flour, 1 teaspoon bak- 
ing powder, i/o lb. dates, 1 lemon for dressing. Beat 
yolks and sugar I/2 hour ; then add dates, chopped, and 
nuts, chopped ; then flour, mixed with baking powder ; 
and last, whites, beaten stiff. 

Dressing. — 1 cup sugar, I/2 cup milk, 1 cup dates 
1 lemon, juice. Boil till thickens. 

Mrs. L. Hanson. 

John's Delight. — 1 egg, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup milk, 
1 cup bread-crumbs, 1 teaspoon soda, V2 teaspoon each 
of all kinds of spice 1 cup raisins. Steam 2 hours ; 
serve with sauce. 

Mrs. Clara Koch Wonn. 

Leona Leoti Pudding. — Black, thick, New Orleans 
molasses and damp, black sugar are used. V2 cup 
molasses, i/^ cup sugar, 1 cup cold water, in which 1 
teaspoon soda has been stirred ; 14 cup melted butter, 
11/2 cups seeded raisins, 3 cups flour. Steam 3 hours. 

Sauce. — 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, I/4 cup butter. Beat 
to a froth ; flavor to taste. 

Springfield, 111. Mrs. John A. New. 

Lemon Pudding. — Beat the yolks of 4 eggs smooth 
with 2 tablespoons of granulated sugar ; then stir in 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 183 

the juice and grated rind of a large lemon and 2 table- 
spoons of boiling water. Cook in a double boiler, stir- 
ring occasionally, until like thick cream. If one is in 
a hurry, and this cream must be cooked in an ordinary 
sauce pan, it requires stirring constantly until done. 
Beat the whites of the eggs until stilf, then beat into 
them 2 tablespoons of granulated sugar. AVhen this 
looks like a meringue, it is to be beaten into the yellow 
mixture while still hot, which cooks it sufficiently to 
keep the whites from falling. If 6 eggs are used, the 
proportions being changed accordingly, this will fill a 
quart dish. Serve with cake or crackers. ' 

Mrs. a. H. Beimfoelr. 

Lemon Tapioca. — 2 tablespoons of tapioca, soaked 
over night in a little water ; in the morning add % cup 
of cold water and the peeled rind of 1 lemon ; set on the 
stove, and boil until clear. Take out the rind, add 
the juice of the lemon, and 1 teaspoon of lemon extract, 
y^ cup sugar, i/^ cup of boiling water, a little salt, and 
boil up. Put in a mould, and cool and serve with sugar 
and cream, 

Mrs. Charles Schaefer. 

Lillies. — Take sponge cake dough, drop on slightly- 
buttered paper by the large spoonful, being careful 
not to have them touching, and bake in a moderately 
quick oven. When baked, slip them with a sharp knife 
from the paper to the baking board. Press ever so 
slightly with rolling pin. Fold each around your finger 
the shape of an ice-cream cone, and pin with a tooth 
pick. Lay on a cloth or paper to cool. When cool, 
put into each a small tablespoonful of whipped cream, 
and press a cherry, or bit of jelly the size, into the 
middle of the cream. Remove picks, and stack on plate. 
This is a dish that bears the name of "Lillies." 

Mrs. Josephine Junker. 

Louise Pudding. — This is a delicious dessert, that 
can be made from a loaf of stale brown bread. Pour 
over 2 cups of boiling milk for every 6 ounces of bread ; 
cover with plate, and let stand until quite soft ; then 



184 PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

lift out bread, and put in strainer, pressing out all 
moisture ; beat with a fork, removing any hard pieces ; 
add 3 tablespoons brown sugar ; grate rind of 1 lemon, 
3 tablespoonfuls of Sultana raisins, 1 teaspoonful each 
of baking powder and vanilla extract ; mix thoroughly, 
and add 2 well-beaten eggs. Place in a buttered pud- 
ding mould, cover with a buttered paper. Steam 
steadily for li/o hours. Turn out when finished, and 
serve with sweet sauce. 

Mrs. Thos. Reiken. 
Marshmallows, Toasted. — 1 tablespoon granulated 
gelatine, soaked in cold water to cover; 1 cup boiling 
water, 1 cup sugar, whites of 3 eggs, 1% teaspoons 
vanilla, macaroons. Dissolve gelatine in boiling water ; 
add sugar, stir and cool; then add whites of eggs and 
vanilla, and beat until mixture thickens. Turn into a 
shallow pan, first dipped in cold water, let stand until 
thoroughly set. Remove from pan, and cut in pieces 
like marshmallows ; then roll in macaroons, which have 
been dried and rolled. Serve with sugar and cream, or 
with a thin custard sauce made with the yolks of the 
eggs. 

Mrs. Arthur W. Hinners. 

Macaroon Dainty. — i/o pint heavy cream, 2 table- 
spoons sugar, Yo cup finely-crumbled stale macaroons. 
Add the sugar to the cream, and whip to a stiff froth. 
Stir this into the macaroon crumbs. Flavor with 
vanilla. Chill, and serve in tall glasses, garnished with 
blanched almonds. 

Denver, Colo. Mrs. Flora Magaret Bird. 

Marshmallow Loaf. — Beat the whites of 4 eggs until 
stiff; into them stir a teaspoon of gelatine, dissolved in 
l^ cup of hot water ; add i/o cup cold water and 1 cup 
sugar. Beat well, and divide in 3 equal parts ; flavor 
each part differently, 1 with melted chocolate, 1 with 
the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, and 1 pink or white. Let 
each stand until sure thai the color will not run into 
each other, beating it now and then. Dust a bread 
pan with powdered sugar ; put in the chocolate part, 
sprinkle with English walnuts ; so on with each part. 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 185 

After standing a few hours the brick will turn out like 
ice-cream. Serve in slices with whipped cream. 

Mrs. H. W. Mattheessen. 

Marshmallow Pudding". — Dissolve a heaping table- 
spoon of gelatine in 1^ pints boiling water; add 18 
marshmallows, and stir until dissolved. When cool, 
pour the mixture into stiffened whites of 3 Qggs ; add a 
cup sugar, 2 oranges, cut up into small pieces ; add 1 
teaspoon vanilla. Set in cold place until firm, and serve 
with whipped cream. 

Miss Louise Velde. 

Marshmallow Pudding. — Whites of 3 fresh eggs, 
beaten 10 minutes ; add 1 cup sugar, beat 10 minutes 
more. Soak 2 tablespoons Knox gelatine in 14 cup 
cold water, dissolve in 14 cup boiling water, stir well ; 
add to beaten eggs and sugar, and beat 20 minutes. 
When stiff', add vanilla and separate in 2 parts — leave 
1 white, color 1 pink ; pour in big, square moulds, with 
pink on top of white. When ready to serve, cut in 
small squares, 2 white and 2 pink layers alternating ; 
sprinkle top with chopped almonds ; serve with whipped 
cream. 

Mrs. James Rahn. 

Marshmallow Dessert. — Part I: Yolks of 4 eggs, 
14 teaspoonful of mustard, pinch of salt, juice of 1 
lemon, 14 cup of cream (sweet). Cook the above. 

Part II: Whip % pint of cream, cut in small pieces 
the following : 1 can of pineapple, 1 lb. of white grapes 
(seeded), 14 lb. of pecan nuts, 1 lb. of fresh marsh- 
mallows, cut in half. Mix with the whipped cream. 
When both parts are cold, blend and let stand 5 hours 
or more before serving. 

Mrs. W. H. Bates. 

Marshmallow Pudding. — Soak 2 heaping teaspoons 
plain gelatine in % cup cold water for ten minutes. 
Then add 1 cupful of boiling water and a pinch of salt 
and allow to cool. When cold, and just before it 
begins to set, add the unbeaten whites of 3 eggs 
and when it begins to beat up frothy, add gradually 



186 PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

1 cupful of sugar. Beat twenty minutes with a Dover 
egg beater. Divide the mixture, color 1/3 pink and 
flavor with strawberry extract, flavor the remainder 
with lemon extract. Mix as desired, marbled or in 
layers, in a mold. Serve with whipped cream or a 
custard made from the yolks of eggs. Chopped nuts 
may be added. 

Mrs. John Corbett. 

Nut Pie. — Yolks of 4 eggs, creamed with 1 cup of 
sugar, add Uneeda crackers or 6 wafer crackers rolled. 
Add 1 cup ground nuts ; then fold in beaten whites. 
Bake in two small shallow pans. Serve with whipped 
cream between and on top. 

Mrs. Ernest Velde. 

Orange Charlotte. — IV^ tablespoons Knox gelatine, 
soaked in Vs cup cold water ; dissolved in I/3 cup boiling 
water; add 1 cup sugar, 3 tablespoons lemon juice, 1 
cup orange juice. Chill in pan of cold water ; when 
quite thick, beat with wire spoon until frothy, then add 
whites of 3 eggs, beaten stiff, and whip from 2 cups of 
cream. Pour in mould which has been rinsed with 
cold water. 

Mrs. Arthur W. Hinners. 

Orange Pudding. — 1 pint milk, scalded; yolks of 2 
eggs, beaten with % cup of sugar; 2 teaspoons corn 
starch, mixed with a little cold milk ; add to sugar and 
eggs, then add to hot milk. Set aside to cool. Cut up 
4 oranges with 1 cup of sugar. Pour above mixture 
over this, and beat. Beat the whites with powdered 
sugar ; flavor with vanilla. Put in oven, and brown. 

Peoria, 111. Miss Tena Meints. 

Orange Pudding. — Peel 5 oranges, cut into thin 
slices, and pour over them 1 cup of white sugar. Scald 
1 pint of milk, add 1 tablespoon corn starch, a little 
cold milk, the beaten yolks of 3 eggs, and a very little 
sugar. When it thickens, pour over the fruit. Beat 
Avhites, spread over the top, and set in the oven for a 
few minutes. 

Elsie M. Adolph. 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 187 

Peach Cobbler. — Butter a cup on outside, and invert 
it in center of pudding dish. Slice fresh peaches 
around the cup, to fill the dish level with top of cup. 
Put 1 cup sugar and small dots of butter over the 
peaches. Then make plain cake : 1/3 cup sugar, 1 table- 
spoon melted butter, 1 egg, beaten light ; V2 cup milk, 
1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder. Pour cake 
batter over peaches and cup, and bake 40 to 50 minutes. 
To serve, invert the pudding on a large plate — juice 
will be in cup. Serve at table with the peach juice and 
plain or whipped cream. Canned peaches may be used 
with % the amount of sugar over them. 

Mrs. Irving M. Weimeb. 

Peach Souffle. — Soak I/4 lb. evaporated peaches, after 
they have been thoroughly washed in lukewarm water. 
Put over the fire with cupful of water, and cook until 
tender; add 4 ounces of sugar. Put through sieve, or 
mash until very smooth ; while still hot, add the beaten 
stiff white of an egg. Pour into tall glasses, and serve 
very cold. Evaporated apples or apricots, or fresh 
fruits, may be used in the same way with good satis- 
faction. 

Mrs. Henry Weber. 

Peach Melba. — Set a thin round of sponge cake on a 

small plate ; on this place half a peach. Moisten the 
cake with some of the peach syrup. On the peach 
place a generous supply of ice cream or whipped 
flavored with vanilla. Overall place raspberry sauce 
made by heating raspberry jam and straining it 
through a very fine wire sieve. 

Rice Pudding. — 2 cups boiled rice, 1 pint of milk, 4 
eggs, % cup sugar, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 teaspoon lemon 
extract. Slightly beat the eggs. Add the sugar and 
flour and mix with the rice. Then add the flavoring 
and lastly the milk. Bake in a moderate oven until 
set. Serve with whipped cream or sauce. 

Mrs. Charles Schaefer. 

Pineapple Snow. — % can sliced pineapple, 1 table- 
spoon each of pink and white Plymouth Rock gelatine. 



188 PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

soaked in V2 cup cold water I/2 hour. Take juice from 
can pineapple, and place in cup holding 1 pint, filling 
up with hot or cold water ; add 1 cup sugar, and place 
on stove to boil up ; then pour in gelatine, stir, and set 
to cool till beginning to jell ; after jellied, beat good ; 
then take whites of 2 eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, and 
stir into gelatine, beating hard ; then set aside to jell ; 
after jellied, beat in fruit, and set aside until firm. 

Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. 0. A. Smith. 

Pineapple Sponge. — 1 pint of grated pineapple; 14 
small cup sugar, i/4 package gelatine, % cup of water, 

2 eggs (whites). Soak the gelatine in i/4 of water; 
put grated pineapple and juice in a sauce pan with 
sugar and remainder of water, and let simmer 10 min- 
utes ; add gelatine, take from fire, and strain into a 
tin basin ; when partially cooled, add the beaten whites 
of eggs, and beat until mixture begins to thicken. Pour 
into a mould, and set away to harden. 

Grace Siebens. 
Pineapple Sponge. — Beat yolks of 3 eggs, and add 
% cupful syrup drained from the pineapple ; then add 

3 tablespoons of lemon juice, % cup sugar, and a few 
grains salt ; place on range and cook, stirring con- 
stantly until it thickens ; then add 1^ tablespoons 
gelatine, which has been dissolved in % cup water; as 
soon as gelatine is dissolved, remove from range, set in 
pan of cold water until it begins to thicken ; stir occa- 
sionally, then add 1/0 cup of heavy cream, beaten with 
whites of 3 eggs until stiff; add % cup sliced pineapple. 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. P. A. Bergner. 

Pineapple Bavarian Cream. — 2 tablespoonfuls gran- 
ulated gelatine, V2 cup cold water, 1 cup grated pine- 
apple, whip from 3 cups heavy cream, ^ cup sugar, 
1 tablespoonful lemon juice. Soak the gelatine in cold 
water. Heat pineapple, add sugar, lemon juice, and 
so-aked gelatine ; chill ; when it begins to thicken, fold 
in the whip from the cream. Oranges or peaches may 
be substituted for the pineapple. 

Alice M. Weimer. 



I'JO PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

Plum Pudding without Eggs. — 1 cup beef suet, 2 
cups bread crumbs, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup raisins, 1 
cup currants, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 
teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup milk; flour 
enough to make a stiif batter. Boil 4 hours. 

Mrs. D. J. Veerman. 

Prune Whip. — Cook 1 lb. prunes till done ; stone, 
and cut fine ; mix 1 cup sugar and the whites of 2 eggs, 
beaten to a froth ; fold the whites of eggs into the other 
mixture. Bake in a moderate oven for 20 minutes, and 
serve with whipped cream, 

Mrs. E. Conaghan. 

Prune Souffle. — Soak i/o lb. prunes over night. In 
the morning drain, remove stones, and mince prunes 
finely. Whip whites of 7 eggs to a stiff froth ; beat in 
quickly '6 teaspoonfuls powdered sugar; whip the 
minced prunes into this. Turn into a buttered pudding 
dish, and bake in a hot oven 20 minutes. Serve hot 
with whipped cream as a sauce. 

Mrs. p. J. Kriegsman. 

Prune Whip. — IV2 cups sugar, 1 cup stewed prunes, 
chopped fine, add Avhites of 3 eggs, beaten stiff; and a 
pinch of cream of tartar. Put in a dish of cold water, 
and set in oven ; let water boil 20 minutes. Let stand 
in the water until served, as it will prevent it from 
falling. 

Miss Olga Andrae. 

Prune Souffle. — 12 large prunes, boiled very tender; 
5 tablespoons sugar, 6 egg whites, beaten stiff. Bake 
15 minutes in buttered pudding dish, and serve with 
custard. 

Omaha, Neb. Mrs. Rudolph Koch. 

Pineapple Tapioca. — Soak over night 1 cup tapioca 
in plenty of cold water. In morning, drain off all 
water. Then add juice of 2 lemons, 1% cups water, 1 
small can and y^ large can sliced pineapple, shredded, 
and its juice. Add to this l^/^ cups sugar. Cook all 
slowly, stirring carefully until it looks clear. Have 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 191 

ready the whites of 3 eggs, well-beaten, and fold into 
this while hot. Set away, and serve cold. 

Mrs. C. L. Velde. 

Queen Pudding. — Bake an angel food cake in a 
long, loaf tin. Whip 1 quart of cream, add 1 cup of 
chopped walnuts ; sweeten, and flavor. Place cream in 
oblong mould and pack in ice for 3 or 4 hours. When 
ready to serve, cut cake and cream into slices 1 inch 
thick, placing cream on cake. Garnish with cherries. 

Miss Lena Jansen. 

Quick Puff Pudding. — Stir 1 pint of flour, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, a little salt into milk, to make 
a soft dough. Grease cups, and put into each a spoonful 
of batter, then 1 of cherries, or any fruit ; then more 
batter, and steam 30 minutes. 

Sauce for Same. — 1 pint boiling water, 1 teacup 
sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, pinch of salt, 1 tablespoon 
flour or corn starch, dissolved in cold water; l/^ tea- 
spoon vanilla. Boil 20 minutes until clear. 

San Jose, 111. Mrs. Fannie G. Brauer. 

Raisin Puff Pudding. — 1/2 cup butter, 3 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 cups flour, 3 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1/2 teaspoonful grated 
nutmeg, 1 cup raisins. Cream butter and sugar; add 
eggs, well-beaten ; then the milk. Sift flour, baking 
powder, and nutmeg together, and stir into mixture. 
Lastly, add the raisins, seeded, chopped fine, and 
dredged with 14 cup flour. Butter a mould, turn mix- 
ture, and steam IV2 hours. Mould should not be filled 
more than % full. Serve with hard sauce. 

Rice Dainty. — % cup of cooked rice, every grain 
distinct ; % cup of pieces of pineapple, y^, cup of sugar, 
V2 cup of cream, beaten stiff. Mix the rice, sugar, and 
pineapple. Serve in sherbet glasses, covered with the 
cream. 

Elizabeth Weyhrich. 

Rice Cream. — i/^ cup rice, 3 cups milk. Stew until 
soft. Add 2 more cups milk, yolks of 3 eggs, beaten 
with 4 tablespoons sugar. Let boil up, and put in a 



192 PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

custard dish. Make meringue with 3 whites of eggs 
and 4 tablespoons sugar. 

Mrs. H. J. Rust. 

Rice Dessert. — Boil carefully in double boiler so the 
grains will keep whole, one small cup rice for twenty 
minutes in one quart milk. Let it cool. Blanch one 
cup almonds, a few bitter ones if desired, chop fine, 
1% tablespoons gelatine, dissolved in cold water, 1 cup 
sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Add to rice when it begins 
to thicken. Add one pint whipped cream and garnish 
with apricots. 

Peoria, 111. Tina Meints. 

Rice Pudding. — 1 quart of milk, % cupful of rice, 
1/^ cupful of sugar, 1 cupful of raisins (a little less), 
butter size of a walnut ; grate nutmeg on top. Bake 
about an hour, or until rice is done. 

Mrs. Clara Koch Wonn. 

Snow Pudding. — Pour upon 3 tablespoons of corn 
starch (dissolved in a little cold water) 1 pint of boiling 
water; add the whites of 3 eggs, beaten stiff; a pinch 
of salt, and a little sugar and lemon juice. Pour into a 
pudding dish, and steam 15 minutes. 

Sauce. — i^ cup of butter, % cup of sugar, creamed; 
2 tablespoons of cream, juice of 1 lemon. Put above 
hot water. 

Mrs. G. A. Kuhl. 

Snowball Custard. — Beat the whites of 6 eggs stiff; 
sweeten ; flavor with vanilla. Boil 1 quart of milk, 
dipping egg into the boiling milk in tablespoonfuls. 
As they rise, turn them ; and when done, put into glass 
dish ; then put the beaten yolks into the milk ; sweeten 
to taste ; stir until it thickens, remove from fire, and 
flavor with vanilla. Turn this custard around the 
white balls in the glass dish. 

Mrs. Chas. Duisdieker. 

Snow Pudding. — 1 tablespoon granulated gelatine, 
^ cup cold water, 1 cup sugar, salt, 1 cup boiling water, 
14 cup lemon juice, 2 or 3 egg whites, mix the gelatine 
and cold water. Let them stand until the water is 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 193 

absorbed; add the boiling water, sugar and salt; stir 
until the gelatine is dissolved completely, then add 
lemon juice and set aside to cool. Beat the egg whites 
until stiff. When the gelatine mixture begins to 
stiffen, beat it (surrounded by ice-water) until it be- 
comes frothy. Then add the beaten egg whites and 
continue beating until the mixture begins to stiffen. 
Turn into molds and set in a cool place. Serve with 
chilled custard sauce. 

Custard Sauce. — 1 pint milk, 3 egg yolks, y^ cup 
sugar, % teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Scald the 
milk in a double boiler. Beat eggs slightly. Add salt 
and sugar. Add the hot milk to this mixture. Return 
to double boiler and cook (stirring constantly) until it 
thickens or forms a coating over the spoon, strain, 
cool and flavor. When eggs are expensive omit one or 
two yolks from a custard recipe. Substitute y^ table- 
spoon of corn starch for each omitted egg. If a 
custard is cooked too much the egg appears in lumps. 
The custard is then said to be curdled. A curdled 
custard may be made smooth by beating it at once 
with Dover ^^^ beater. 

Snow Pudding. — 14 box gelatine, y^ cup cold water, 

1 cup boiling water, 1 cup sugar, y^ cup lemon juice, 
whites of 3 eggs. Soak gelatine 15 minutes in cold 
water, then dissolve in hot water; add sugar and 
lemons ; stir till dissolved ; then strain, beat eggs stiff ; 
when gelatine thickens, add eggs. Pour in moulds to 
cool. 

Sauce. — 1 pint hot milk, yolks of 3 eggs, 3 table- 
spoons sugar, 1/^ teaspoon flavor. Thicken a little. 

Mrs. Henry Adolph. 

Strawberry Whip. — White of egg, 1 cup powdered 
sugar, 1 cup mashed berries. Beat one hour. (Can 
be used as cake filling) Custard to put over whip ; 

2 eggs, 1 cup milk, sugar to taste, a little butter, salt, 
vanilla, tablespoon corn starch. Mix eggs, sugar, 
butter, salt, vanilla, then milk and boil; then add 



194 PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

corn starch, mixed with a little milk and cook a few 
minutes until thick like custard. 

St. Louis, Mo. Miss Hazel Nahlick. 

Strawberry Float. — Crush 2 quarts of ripe berries, 
and whip into them the stiffly-beaten whites of 3 eggs 
and a cupful of sugar ; beat until light and foamy ; turn 
into a deep dish and chill on ice. Make a custard by 
beating the yolks of 3 eggs with a cupful of sugar and 
adding li/o cupfuls thin cream; cook in double boiler 
until the custard coats the spoon ; flavor with almond 
extract, and when cold pour around the prepared 
strawberries and serve. 

Miss Louise Frey. 

Steamed Pudding. — % cup butter, i/o cup sugar, 
1 cup milk, 2 eggs, 2 cups flour, 2 tablespoons baking 
powder. Steam ly^ hours. Put in any fresh or canned 
fruit. Raspberries are delicious, or preserved straw- 
berries. When putting in steamer, first put dough, 
and then fruit, alternately. 

Louise Brooks. 

Steam Puddingy. — 1 cup molasses, % cup suet, 1 cup 
sweet milk, 2^ cups flour, 2 cups raisins, 1 cup pecan 
meats, 1 teaspoon soda. Steam 2% hours in small 
moulds, and serve with both the following sauces : 

Sauce. — % cup butter, 11/2 cups sugar, 1 egg yolk, 
1 pint boiling water, 1 teaspoon corn starch, brandy to 
taste. 

Hard Sauce. — Cream butter and sugar. Add a little 
lemon juice. 

Mrs. H. W. Hippen. ^ 

Plum Pudding. — 1 cup of suet, chopped fine; 1 cup 
cooking molasses, 1 cup sour milk, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup 
currants, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon cloves, 2 teaspoons cinna- 
mon, 1 teaspoon nutmeg, i/o teaspoon soda, dissolved 
in sour milk, 1/4 teaspoon salt, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder. Mix tiie ingredients, pour into 
buttered mould; cover and steam 4 hours, and bake 
in oven 14 hour. Serve with hard or lemon sauce. 

Mrs. D. p. Velde. 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 195 

Steamed Pudding. — 1 cup molasses, 1 cup boiling 
watei', 1 scant cup shortening, 1 teaspoon saleratus, 1 
teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon. Steam 2 hours. 

Sauce. — Butter size of an egg, 5 tablespoons boiling 
water. Thicken with pulverized sugar and vanilla. 

Bess Brooks. 

Spanish Creme. — 1 quart milk, i/2 box gelatine, 4 
yolks of eggs, 5 whites of eggs, 5 tablespoons sugar, 1 
teaspoon vanilla. Put milk in a sauce pan ; add yolks 
and sugar, stirring continually. When it boils, remove 
from fire ; add dissolved gelatine, and then stir it into 
the beaten whites. Put in mould. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

Peoria, 111. Katherine Velde. 

Steamed Pudding (Light). — 1 cup sugar, 1 cup sweet 
milk, 1 egg, butter size of an egg, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, a cup flour, or enough to make as stiff as for 
cake ; 1 cup raisins, or dates, or figs. Steam 1 hour. 
Serve with vanilla sauce. 

Ella H. Velde. 

Velvet Cream. — Take 2 tablespoons of Knox's gela- 
tine, and dissolve it in a little cold water ; then take 1 
pint of cream and whip same ; add sugar to taste ; set 
gelatine on stove until dissolved, then beat it into the 
whipped cream; add % can of pineapple (small can), 
add a little vanilla ; set in a cold place ; when it begins 
to stiffen, add the whites of 2 eggs, beaten to a stiff' 
froth. Put in a mould in a cold place. 

Louise Velde. 

Tapioca Pudding. — Cook in double boiler 15 minutes 
1 quart of milk, 2 level tablespoons of tapioca, a pinch 
of salt, stirring constantly. Beat together 2 egg yolks 
with % cup of sugar; at the end of 15 minutes, stir 
it into the milk and tapioca. Let this thicken until it 
looks like custard. Whip the whites until stiff; beat 
into pudding until they can not be seen ; add 1 teaspoon 
of vanilla. 

Mrs. Miener. 



196 PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

Washington Pie. — 1 cup sugar, tablespoon butter, 
1 6gg, % cup milk, 1% cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking 
powder, teaspoon vanilla, pinch of salt. Mix sugar, 
butter, and beaten egg well ; then add milk ; and flour, 
baking powder, and salt, sifted thoroughly; bake in 2 
pie tins ; serve with dip : 1 quart milk, boil ; mix 1 heap- 
ing tablespoon flour, i/^ cup sugar, 1 egg, and a little 
salt ; smooth with a few spoons of milk, and add to boil- 
ing milk. Boil until it thickens, add a teaspoon vanilla. 

Mrs. G. N. Weber. 

Yorkshire Pudding (To be served with Roast 
Beef). — 1 pint milk, 4 eggs, pinch salt, cup flour, 1 
teaspoon baking powder. Beat the eggs well in a large 
bowl, add salt and milk, then sift in the flour and bak- 
ing powder slowly, beating all the time. About half 
an hour before the roast is done pour part of the hot 
drippings into a pan, the remaining fat and juice being 
used to make gravy. Pour the pudding mixture into the 
drippings arranging the roast on a grill over it and 
return to oven ; or if no grill is had the pudding mix- 
ture may be poured into the drippings and baked with- 
out the roast, the roast being returned to the remaining 
drippings that have been left for the gravy. About 
ten minutes before serving remove the roast and grill 
and increase the heat of the oven in order that the 
pudding may rise. It is best served in the pan from a 
side table, as part of its charm is its appearance before 
it is cut. It falls immediately on cutting. 

Mrs. Charles Schaefer. 



FROZEN DESSERTS AND ICE 
CREAMS 

"I always thought cool victuals nice; 
My choice would be vanilla ice." — 0. W. Holmes. 

Apricot Ice-Cream. — 4 oranges, 2 lemons, 2 cupfuls 
canned apricots, 3 cupfuls sugar, % cupful water, 4 
egg whites, 1 quart cream. Cover sugar with water 
and juice from apricots ; boil to a syrup. Press apricots, 
oranges, and lemons through a sieve ; add to cooled 
syrup ; add beaten egg whites. Place mixture in freez- 
er. When partly frozen, add the cream and freeze un- 
til solid. This will make 1 gallon. 

Alice M. Weimer. 

Bisque Glace. — Yolks- of 8 eggs, 1/2 pound powdered 
sugar, 1 quart double whipping cream, vanilla to taste. 
Beat eggs, sugar and vanilla light, whip cream and add 
eggs and sugar. Pour in mould and set in ice and salt 
to freeze for 2 hours or more. Nuts and fruit may be 
added. 

Mrs. W. p. Herget. 

Chocolate Sauce for Ice-cream. — Melt 2 squares of 
chocolate ; add 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of cream or milk ; 
boil slowly for 10 minutes. Stir just enough to keep 
from scorching. When cooked, add 1 teaspoonful of 
vanilla. This will serve 6 people. Pour on ice-cream. 

Marie Albertsen. 

Chocolate Sauce for Ice-cream. — 1 cup boiling water, 
1/2 cup sugar, 1 square chocolate. Cook slowly until 
consistency of syrup. Will keep indefinitely. 

Omaha, Neb. Mrs. Rudolph Koch. 

Cranberry Ice. — Boil 2 quarts cranberries in IVn 
quarts of water until berries are done ; strain through 
coarse sieve ; add 3 cups of sugar, V2 box Knox gelatine, 
soaked in % cup cold water ; let come to boil again, add 

198 



FROZEN DESSERTS AND ICE CREAM 199 

enough cold water to make about 3 quarts, and freeze. 
This is fine with turkej- or chicken. 

Mrs. Anna Hackler. 
Cranberry Sherbet. — 4 cups cooked cranberry 
(strained), strained juice of 6 oranges, 4 cups sugar. 
Freeze until mushy, then add whites of 4 eggs, and con- 
tinue freezing. ^^^ p^^^ jj ^^^^^^ 

"Five Threes" Ice. — 3 bananas, mashed fine; 3 
lemons (juice), 3 oranges (juice), 3 cups of sugar, 3 
cups of water, 1 tablespoonful of gelatine, dissolved. 
Freeze. 

Springfield, 111. Mrs. John A. New. 

Frozen Custard. — 1 quart milk, 3 eggs, 1 cup sugar. 
Cook in double boiler until eggs begin to cook. Let 
cool. Flavor with 1 teaspoon vanilla, % teaspoon 
almond; add ^4 lb. English Avalnuts, 14 lb. figs, i/4 lb. 
candied cherries; or % lb. raisins, or 1 pint apricots 
(canned pulp) to 1 quart custard. Freeze. You may 
use raisins instead of cherries, or the apricots instead 
of raisins or cherries. 

Jacksonville, 111. Winifred Wackerle. 

Frozen Pudding. — 4 eggs — cream yolks with 1 cup 
powdered sugar; whip whites of eggs stiff: 1 eup 
chopped nuts, vanilla, % pint cream, whipped. Stir 
all together Avell, and pack in mould ; put in a jar with 
salt and ice 4 hours ; pack the same as you do ice-cream, 
only this you do not turn — just let it stand. 

Denver, Colo. Mrs. John Look. 

Frozen Plum Pudding. — 1 heaping tablespoon of 
powdered gelatine, i/^ cup boiling water, 1 cup cold 
water, 1 eup sugar, 2 cups whipped cream, % cup of 
clean Sultana raisins, 1 cup nut meats, i/^ pound can- 
died fruit, yolks of 3 eggs. Dissolve gelatine in Avater. 
Cook together the sugar and cold water until they 
form a fine thread. Add sugar to beaten yolks of 
eggs. Beat until cool. Add gelatine, fold in Avhipped 
cream; add raisins and nuts, freeze and when ready 
tO'pack add candied fruit in layers. 

Malinda Kreigsman. 



200 FROZEN DESSERTS AND ICE CREAM 

Fruit Ice. — 3 lemons, 3 oranges, 2 bananas, % can 
apricots, pinch of salt, 3 cups water, 3 cups sugar, 1 
cup cream, or a dozen peaches. Boil sugar and water 
15 minutes ; then put cream in this to scald, and let 
cool ; add the juice of lemons and oranges ; rub bananas 
and apricots through a sieve, add and freeze. 

Mrs. Harm Van Horn. 

Hamberg Cream. — -5 eggs, i/^ cup sugar, juice of 2 
lemons. Beat yolks, add sugar and lemon juice, and 
boil until thick in double boiler ; then add beaten 
whites, and set aside to cool. Also fine when frozen. 

Mrs. Louis de Vries. 

Junket Ice-cream. — 2 quarts of cream, 4 cups of 
sugar, 2 quarts of milk, 4 junket tablets. Heat the 
cream, milk, and sugar until lukewarm; remove from 
the stove, and add vanilla to suit taste. Dissolve the 
junkets in 4 tablespoons of cold water, then pour the 
mixture into the freezer and let stand 10 minutes before 
freezing. It is better after having stood for several 
hours after freezing. 

Senia DeBoer. 

Lemon Ice. — Juice of 4 large lemons, strained; 2i/^ 
teacups sugar, 1 teaspoon lemon extract. Mix the 
above well ; add 3 pints of sweet milk, add whites of 2 
eggs, well beaten ; then freeze. 

Denver, Colo. Mrs. C. M. Augustine. 

Lemon Sherbet. — 2 lemons, 2 oranges, 2 cups sugar, 
2 pints of rich milk. Strain the fruit juice through 
a cloth, add sugar and milk. Freeze. 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. Fred Grondenberg. 

Maple Mousse. — 1 cup hot maple syrup poured over 
beaten yolks of 8 eggs. Cook over hot water like cus- 
tard until mixture thickens and coats spoon. Beat 
until cold, and fold in 1 pint of cream, beaten stiff. 
(The amount of egg yolk may be reduced and a little 
gelatine used to help stiffen the mixture.) Put in mould, 
cover tightly, and pack in ice and salt in equal quan- 
tities for several hours. 

Domestic Science, Bradley Institute. 

Peoria, III. Miss Helen M. Day. 



FROZEN DESSERTS AND ICE CREAM 201 

Maple Mousse. — Beat the yolks of 6 eggs very light ; 
add % cup maple syrup, made very hot ; stir in double 
boiler till thick; beat until cold. Add the whites, 
beaten very lightly; and I/2 pint cream, well-whipped; 
stir all together thoroughly. Pour into a monld, and 
pack in chopped ice and salt. Let stand about 4 hours, 
and it will be readj'" to serve. 

Emden, 111. Anna Steen Zimmer. 

Marshmallow Confection. — Add to 1 pint of cream 
whipped stiff, 1 cup English walnuts, chopped fine; 1 
lb. marshmallows, cut up ; i/4 cup candied cherries, 
chopped; few drops vanilla. Pack in ice and salt 1 
hour. Serve as ice-cream. 

Mrs. p. J. Kriegsman. 

Orange Ice. — Boil 2 pints sugar, 3 pints water 20 
minutes; let stand over night, then add the juice of 3 
lemons and 7 oranges, and the whites of 2 eggs. 

Orange Ice. — 1 quart of water, 1 pint of sugar, 
boiled. When cold, add juice of 6 oranges and 2 lemons. 
Freeze. Makes I/2 gallon. 

Mrs. G. a. Kuhl. 

Parfait. — 1 pint of cream, whipped dry; whites of 
3 eggs, beaten light ; Yo cup sugar. Boil as for frosting, 
pour over eggs; mix cream and eggs; flavor to taste. 
Pack in ice for 4 hours. 

Champaign, 111. Mrs. John Sass. 

Prune Parfait. — 1 lb. prunes — soak, simmer, and 
break into small pieces ; add a little lemon juice, % cup 
sugar, and Vs cup prune juice, boiled together to soft 
ball ; test, and pour slowly over well-beaten white of 1 
egg. Beat until cool ; add prune pieces, and fold in IV2 
cups cream, beaten stiff. (Less cream may be used.) 
Turn mixture into quart mould with tight cover. Pack 
in equal quantities of salt and ice for 2 hours or more. 

Domestic Science, Bradley Institute. 

Peoria, 111. Miss Helen M. Day. 



202 FROZEN DESSERTS AND ICE CREAM 

Pineapple Cream Ice. — 1 pint sugar, 1 pint water, 
boil 5 minutes and add one can of grated pineapple and 
juice of one lemon. When partly frozen add 1 pint 
of cream and whites of 3 eggs. 

Mrs. W. p. Herget. 

Pineapple Sherbet. — 1 quart grated pineapple, 1% 
lbs. sugar, the juice of 2 oranges, 1 quart of water. 
Boil the sugar and water together for 5 minutes. Take 
it from the fire ; add the grated pineapple and the 
juice of the oranges — strain through a cloth to get all 
the juice. Freeze, and add the whites of 2 eggs, beaten 
to a froth. 

Mrs. Sophia Thurman. 

Pineapple Cream Sherbet. — Juice of 2 oranges and 

1 lemon, 1 can pineapple cut up into small pieces; 

2 cups sugar, 1 pint milk, 1 pint cream. To the juice of 
oranges, lemon, and pineapple add sugar, cream, and 
milk slowly, stirring constantly ; then freeze. 

Mrs. W. L. Ferris. 

Pineapple Sherbet. — 2 quarts milk, 3 cups sugar. 
Freeze partly, then add juice of 4 lemons and 1 cup 
pineapple, and freeze. 

Delavan, 111. Mrs. W. H. Few. 

Peach Sherbet. — 1/3 peck peaches, 1 quart water, 

1 gill cream, the juice of 1 lemon, sugar to taste ; freeze. 
Springfield, 111. Mrs. John A. New. 
Strawberry Surprise. — 1 quart strawberries, crushed, 

2 large cups powdered sugar, 1 large cup water, whites 
of 2 eggs (do not beat), juice of 2 lemons. Mix the 
above all together, and freeze. Any other fruit may 
be substituted for strawberries. 

Mrs. C. E. Oswald. 
Sherbet. — The juice of 3 oranges, juice of 3 lemons, 

3 bananas, mashed ; 3 cups of sugar, 3 cups of water, 
beaten whites of 3 eggs, added when partly frozen. 

Mrs. Phil. Sipfle. 
Tutti Frutti Ice-cream. — 1 quart milk, 1 quart cream, 
3 eggs, beaten separately; 2 cups sugar. Freeze un- 
til half frozen. 1 cup English walnuts, chopped; 1^ 



FROZEN DESSERTS AND ICE CREAM 203 

cup raisins, chopped; I/2 c^P cherries, chopped; 1 pint 
pineapple, chopped ; juice of 1 lemon, 1 cup sugar. Let 
heat until sugar is dissolved, then add to half-frozen 
custard, and continue freezing. 

Miss Olga Andrae. 
Vanilla Ice-cream. — 1% quarts cream, li/^ quarts 
milk, 2 scant cups sugar, 2 level tablespoons flour, 3 
eggs, beaten together ; i/4 teaspoon salt. Mix flour, 
sugar, salt, and eggs thoroughly, and add milk gradu- 
ally. Cook till flour is cooked, and when cool, add 
cream and vanilla. Freeze. Makes 1 gallon. 

Mrs. Irving M. Weimer. 



PASTRY 

* ' Only two things are needed — a glass roller and the magic hand ' ' 

DO NOT TOUCH the pastry with the hands until 
ready to rool out. Cut shortening and flour together 
with a knife. Have the lard and water as cold as pos- 
sible, lee water is better. To make the pies nicer 
one fourth of the shortening may be left out and the 
pastry intended for the upper crust can be rolled fl£(t, 
spread with butter, sprinkled with flour, folded to- 
gether and rolled again. Kepeating this until the 
shortening is used. This makes a flaky upper crust. 
Washing the upper crust of the pie with milk before 
placing it in the oven makes it brown nicely. 

Cheese Straws. — 2 cupfuls of grated cheese, l^ cup 
of butter, 1 cup of flour, pinch of salt, and dash of 
paprika. Water enough to make a soft dough. Roll 
thin, cut in small strips, and bake in moderate oven to 
a delicate brown. 

Mrs. Louis Albertsen. 

Ciimamon RoUs.-^-Make a rich pie crust, roll thin 
and cut in pieces about three inches square, spread 
with butter, sprinkle thickly with sugar and then with 
cinnamon. Roll and bake until brown. 

Mrs. J. G. Neddemann. 

Cream Puffs. — 1 cup hot water, y^ cup butter. Boil 
together while boiling stir in 1 cup of sifted flour, 
dry. Take from the stove and beat 5 minutes, and 
after this cooks stir in three eggs, unbeaten, one at a 
time. Stir it five minutes, let cool. Drop by table- 
spoonfuls on to a buttered tin and bake in a quick 
oven for 25 minutes, opening the oven door no more 
than is absolutely necessary AND BEING careful they 
do not touch each other in the pan. This will make 
twelve puffs. 

205 



206 PASTRY 

Cream for Above Puffs. — 1 cup of milk, 1 cup sugar, 
2 eggs, 3 tablespoons flour and 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Stir the flour into a little of the milk. Boil the rest, 
turn this in and stir until the whole thickens. When 
both cream and puffs are cool open the puffs on the 
side with a knife and fill with cream. 

Malinda Kreigsman. 

Pie Crust. — (Top and bottom of 1 pie.) — 1 teacup of 
flour, 2 tablespoons of lard (rounded), 3 tablespoons 
of" cold water, y^ teaspoon of salt. 

Anna Kumpf. 

Pie Shell. — So many have trouble making a shell 
for a pie keep its shape. Turn a pie pan upside down, 
press the pastry on smooth and close, prick with a fork 
in several places; bake. When you put it on a plate 
ready for the filling, you have a nice, shapely shell. 

Miss Sue Hyers. 

Peach Tarts. — Bake tart shells in the usual way. 
Then drain one can of large peaches and place one 
piece, round side up, into each tart shell. Beat the 
whites of 2 eggs until stiff, add 6 tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar gradually and heat until thick and 
smooth. Heap a little of this on each tart, sprinkle 
with chopped nuts and bake until a delicate brown. 
Cool before serving. 

Mrs. W. F. Fluegal. 

Puff Paste. — 1 pound flour, 1 pound butter, mix one 
half the butter with the flour so as to make it quite 
stiff, using as little cold water as possible. Roll and 
cut remaining butter into bits and dot over the paste, 
dredge well with flour. Fold over, roll lightly to- 
gether and set aside for a few minutes in a cool place, 
then roll again, put on butter and dredge as before, 
roll up and then roll out. Repeat this until the butter 
is gone. Do it quickly and handle as little as possible. 
Puff paste is for upper crust only. Use a plain paste 
for under crust. Puff paste will keep a week if put 
on ice. 



PASTRY 207 

Tart Shells. — These are a most convenient resource 
for the housekeeper in case of unexpected guests as 
well as a pretty and ornamental dish for the table. 
The ends of paste left from pies may often be turned 
to good account in this manner. Line small tins or 
patty-pans with paste, pricking with a fork to prevent 
blistering, bake and set away. Fill them as needed 
with jelly or preserved fruit. These shells may be 
glazed by brushing over with the yolk of an egg before 
putting in the oven. 



PIES 

"What moistens the lips and what brightens the eye; 
What calls back the past like the rich pumpkin pie?" 

— Whittier. 

Apple-Custard Pie. — IV2 cups cooked apples, % cup 
sugar, 3 eggs, 1 pint of milk. Have apples quite sweet ; 
beat the eggs light; mix everything well; add a little 
nutmeg, and bake without upper crust. 

Mrs. Frank Heckman. 

Boston Pie. — 1 cup cranberries, cut in halves; i/^ 
cup raisins, 1 cup sugar, 2 level tablespoons flour, 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla, small piece of butter. Rub flour and 
sugar together; pour 1 cup boiling water over all. 
Bake between 2 crusts. 

Omaha, Neb. Mrs. Rudolph Koch. 

Butter Scotch Pie. — 1 cup brown sugar, 2 eggs (save 
the whites for the tops), 2 cups sweet milk, 1 cup 
cold water, lump of butter the size of a small egg, 2 
^heaping tablespoons flour. Mix the sugar, butter, flour, 
and yolks of eggs together; then add the milk and 
water. Put on stove, cook, and stir constantly until it 
thickens. Have the crust ready, and add the custard. 
Flavor with vanilla. This makes 2 good pies. 

Mrs. L. J. Albertsen. 

Caramel Pie. — Line your pie pan with a rich crust, 
and bake. 

Felling. — 1 pint sweet milk, 1 cup brown sugar, 
yolks of 2 eggs, small piece of butter, 2 tablespoons 
flour, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Scald milk and sugar to- 
gether, then add the beaten yolks mixed with the flour, 
and enough cold milk to make a smooth paste. Soon 
as it thickens, remove from fire and add butter and 
vanilla. Beat whites of eggs stiff; add 2 teaspoons 
sugar and vanilla ; spread over pie, and brown. 

Mrs. G. N. Weber. 

209 



210 PIES 

Cherry Custard Pie. — Line pie plate with rich pie 
dough. In the bottom of the unbaked crust put % cup 
of finely rolled cracker crumbs then put one pint of 
cherries that have been drained and add one cup of 
sugar. Over all pour a custard with a few dashes of 
cinnamon and bake in a medium hot oven. 

Mks. Frank Heckman, 

Chocolate Pie. — 4 tablespoons of grated chocolate, 
1 pint of milk or water, 2 eggs (yolks), 2 tablespoons 
of corn starch, 6 tablespoons of sugar. Boil until thick ; 
add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour into baked crust. 
Beat the whites of eggs with i^ cup of sugar. Spread 
over top, and brown. 

Mrs. Walter Jacobs. 

Combination Pie. — Line a pie plate with good rich 
crust. Fill half full with raspberries, take a little of 
the juice with which blend 2 tablespoons of flour (or 
more if needed), add this to pie and bake until crust 
is brown and berries and juice are thickened. Then 
fill balance of pie with lemon fiilling, put meringue on 
top and place in oven to brown — currants or cherries 
may be used in place of raspberries. 

Mrs. Ed. Plattner. 

Cottage Cheese Pie. — IV2 pints of cottage cheese, 
2y2 tablespoons sugar, 14 teaspoon of cinnamon, 2 eggs, 
beaten ; 1 tablespoon flour. Mix thoroughly, and bake 
with 1 crust. 

Mrs. Ed. Wetzel, 

Cocoanut Pie. — 1 pint milk, 2I/2 tablespoons corn 
starch ; sweeten to taste ; 1 egg, or more, 1 teaspoon 
butter, iy2 teaspoons vanilla. Mix corn starch with a 
little cold milk. Have milk boiling hot, and pour in 
corn starch, well-mixed, stirring constantly; then add 
other ingredients. Pour into a baked crust. Beat 
whites of eggs, add sugar, spread on pie, put cocoanut 
on top, and let brown. 

Mrs. Ella Buchanan. 

Cream Pie. — Mix 6 tablespoons of flour and 3 of 
sugar; add yolks of 3 eggs and 1 quart of milk; boil 



PIES 211 

till it thickens, then flavor with a teaspoon lemon ex- 
tract. Bake crust, pour in the cream mixture ; beat 
whites of eggs, add sugar and i/4 teaspoon lemon ex- 
tract, and brown lightly. 

Mrs. L. M. Weaver. 

Cream Pie. — Crust. — Cream 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter, 1^ tablespoonfuls of sugar, and the yolk of 1 
egg, beaten light ; and last, 1 small cup of flour. Do 
not roll or mould, but spread on the bottom of a cake 
tin and bake in a moderate oven. 

Cream Filling. — 1 pint of milk, j'olks of 2 eggs, 3 
tablespoons of flour, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Cook 
in a double boiler until thick; flavor with vanilla. 

When both crust and cream are cold, spread the 
cream on crust. Shortly before serving, beat the whites 
of the 3 eggs and add 1 tablespoonful of sugar. Spread 
on top, and brown in oven. There is no side crust to 
this pie. 

Mrs. W. H. Bates. 

Date Pie. — 1 cup dates (stone the dates,) 1 cup 
milk, the yolks of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons flour, % cup 
sugar. Cook milk and dates in double boiler until it 
comes to a good boil. Mix flour and sugar together, 
and stir this into the eggs. Put this mixture into the 
milk and dates, and cook until thick. 

Mrs. a. J. Elson. 

Grape Pie. — Allow one pound of grapes for each 
pie. Pulp them and stew the pulp and skins separately. 
Sift the seeds from the pulp and add to the skins with 
a mixture of 1 tablespoon of flour, y^. cupful of sugar 
and a pinch of salt. Cool and bake between two 
crusts. 

Mrs. Walter F. Fluegal. 

Lemon Pie. — 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon flour, mix to- 
gether, add two egg yolks, juice and rind of 1 lemon, 
butter size of walnut, 1 cup boiling water. Cook in 
double boiler until thick. Pour into a baked crust and 
cover with the beaten whites. Put in oven and brown. 

Mrs. Urban J. Albertsen. 



PIES 213 

Lemon Pie.— Yolks of 4 eggs, beaten light; add 1 
cup sugar, then the juice of 1 lemon and part of rind, 
grated ; I/2 lemon skin full of water. Place in double 
boiler to cook; when sufficiently cooked, remove from 
fire. Have the whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff ; stir i/^ of 
them in your custard, which has been cooked. The 
remaining i/^ put on top, and return to the oven to 
brown. 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. Katherine Boley. 

Lemon Pie. — A recipe for lemon pie that never fails 
of approval. Take 1 cup of sugar, 1 scant tablespoon 
of butter, 2 eggs, juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 
1 teacup of boiling water, 1 tablespoon of flour, mixed 
with the sugar. Beat yolks of eggs with flour and 
sugar, adding gradually the 1 cup of boiling water and 
the juice and rind of lemon. Put on to boil in double 
boiler. Bake crust, and when baked, add the above 
mixture, which has been cooked. Cover with meringue, 
then return to the oven and brown slightly. 

Meringue. — Beat the whites of 2 eggs until stiff; add 
gradually 2 teaspoonfuls powdered sugar, and continue 
beating; then add ^ teaspoonful lemon juice. 

Mrs. Nelson Sheppard, Sr. 

Lemon Pie. — 1 large cup of cold milk, 1 lemon, 1 
cup of sugar, 2 tablespoons of flour, 2 eggs, a small 
piece of butter, and a pinch of salt. Stir flour and 
sugar together; add grated rind and juice of lemon, 
yolks of eggs, butter, salt, and milk. Set in a double 
boiler; cook until stiff, stirring all the time. Pour into 
baked crust. Beat whites of eggs stiff; add 1 table- 
spoon of sugar for each egg; beat some, and spread 
over the filling. Set in oven, and brown. 

Mrs. Chas. Herer. 

Mock Cherry Pie. — % cup cranberries, cut in halves ; 
1 cup raisins, cut in halves; 1 cup sugar, 2 teaspoons 
vanilla, pinch of salt, small lump butter, 1 tablespoon 
maple syrup added improves flavor. Soak cranberries 
in cold water 1 hour ; remove berries, and to them add 
raisins, sugar, vanilla, salt, and maple syrup. Mix 1 



214 PIES 

level tablespoon corn starch in enough cold water to 
pour easily; add to % cup boiling water, and boil 5 
minutes. Add butter. Combine mixtures, and pour 
in pie pan lined with paste. Make a latticed top with 
i/^-inch strips. Bake well. Makes 1 large or 2 smaller 
pies. 

Mrs. Irving M. Weimer. 

Mince Meat. — 4 lbs. lean beef, ground ; 8 lbs. chopped 
green apples, 1^ lbs. ground suet, 31/2 lbs. raisins, 
21/2 lbs. currants, i/^ lb. citron, 1 lb. brown sugar, 2 
quarts sweet cider, 1 quart boiled cider, 1 quart mo- 
lasses, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 tablespoon pepper, 1 table- 
spoon mace, 1 tablespoon allspice, 4 tablespoons cin- 
namon, 2 tablespoons ground nutmeg, 1 tablespoon 
cloves. Mix all together, and heat thoroughly. 

Mrs. Ben J. Epkens. 

Mince Meat. — This recipe will make 2 gallons. 5 
lbs. beef, 1 lb. suet, 1 peck apples, 2 lbs. raisins, 2 lbs. 
currants, 1 lb. citron, 1 lb. nut meats, 2 tablespoonfuls 
nutmeg, 2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon, 2 tablespoonfuls 
ground cloves, 2 tablespoonfuls allspice, 1/2 pint brandy, 
2 quarts cherry or peach juice, 2 lbs. granulated sugar. 
Cook beef till tender. When almost done, add suet. 
Pare and chop apples; then chop meat. Add other 
ingredients, as given. Cook juice and sugar, and add 
to the other. 

Mrs. U. J. Albertsen. 

Mock Mince Pie. — 1/2 cup raisins, i/^ cup sugar, 1 
chopped apple, 1 rolled cracker, 1 teaspoon butter, 1/2 
cup sour milk, 1 tablespoon molasses, 1 tablespoon 
vinegar, l^ teaspoon nutmeg, y^. teaspoon cinnamon, 
pinch of salt. This will make one pie and should be 
baked 30 minutes. 

Mrs. Urban J. Albertson. 

Mock Mince Meat. — 1/2 peck green tomatoes (put 
through meat chopper), 2 lbs. sugar, 2 lbs. raisins, 1 
teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon allspice, 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, good 1/2 cup vinegar. Put raisins 



PIES 215 

through meat chopper. Mix all ingredients and boil 
at least an hour. Seal in glass jars. 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. Alma Margaret Traeger. 

Nut Mince Pies. — 1 cup walnut meats, 2 cups apples, 
pared and cut into pieces; V2 cup vinegar, I/2 cup 
fruit juice or water, II/2 cups sugar, 1 teaspoon each 
cinnamon and allspice ; I/2 teaspoon each cloves and 
salt ; 1 cup raisins. Cut nuts with meat chopper. Thor- 
oughly mix all the ingredients together. This makes 
2 pies. 

Omaha, Neb. Mrs. Rudolph Koch. 

Orange Pie. — 2 oranges, grated, juice and little of 
rind ; 5 crackers, rolled fine ; 1 pint of sweet milk, 2 
eggs, well-beaten, reserving the whites for the frosting. 
Enough sugar to sweeten. Bake as custard. 

Mrs. H. W. Lackman. 

Orange Pie. — y^ cupful butter, % cupful sugar, 3 
eggs, % grated rind and juice of a large orange, and 
juice of 1/2 lemon. Beat the sugar and butter to a 
cream ; add 1 whole egg and the yolks of 2, and beat 
thoroughly; then add grated rind, orange and lemon 
juice. Bake with an undercrust only, and when half- 
baked, add filling; finish baking in a moderate oven. 
Cover with the meringue of the whites of 2 eggs, 2 
tablespoons of sugar, and vanilla to flavor. 

Mrs. R. p. Lorenz. 

Pineapple Cream Pie. — Have crust partly baked, and 
add filling ; 2 small cupf uls milk, add pinch of salt 
and small lump of butter ; set over a slow fire to scald. 
Take a cup of canned, grated pineapple pulp, and into 
this add the yolks of 2 eggs (retaining the whites for 
the frosting), 1 cup of sugar, 2 tablespoons corn starch; 
mix well, and add to the scalded milk; stir till it 
thickens ; add all of this to the crust, also the frosting. 
Place in oven until this is brown. 

Mrs. Henry Gebhard. 
^ Pineapple Pie. — Line the pan with pastry. Mix 
lightly together the well-beaten yolks of 4 eggs, 1 cup 
sugar, 1 cup grated pineapple, stiffly-beaten whites of 



PIES 217 

2 eggs. Bake until done in moderate oven, cover with 
stiffly-beaten whites of 2 eggs and 3 tablespoons sugar, 
and brown. 

Mrs. E. G. Matheus. 

Prune Pie. — 1 tablespoon lard, 5 tablespoons flour, 
pinch of salt, and a little baking powder ; water enough 
to mix well. 

Filling. — Stew 30 or 40 prunes in a little water until 
tender — it takes about 1% hours. Take out seeds, and 
cut up fine. Beat whites of 3 eggs stiff, and add % cup 
sugar, and whip in prunes. Have ready pie crust, and, 
when half done, add the prune mixture. Bake till a 
light brown. Let cool, and serve with whipped cream. 

Springfield, 111. Mrs. Jess. 

Pumpkin Pie. — % cup flour to a tablespoonful of 
lard, with a pinch of salt and just enough water to 
make it stick together, makes 1 crust. 

Filling. — 1 cup pumpkin, 1 heaping teaspoon cin- 
namon, 1 even teaspoon allspice, % teaspoon ginger, 
V^ cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup milk. Before putting in 
oven, sprinkle with grated nutmeg. 

Mrs. W. J. Eden. 

Pumpkin Pie. — To 2 cupfuls of pumpkin add 2 cup- 
fuls of milk, 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 large cupful of 
sugar, 2 teaspoons of allspice, 2 teaspoons of cinnamon, 

1 teaspoon of ginger, pinch of salt, and heaping cup- 
ful of cracker crumbs. Mix well. This will make two 
medium sized pies. 

Mrs. L. J. Albertsen. 

Pumpkin Pie. — To II/2 cupfuls of can pumpkin, add 

2 cupfuls of hot milk, 2 eggs, and even teaspoonful 
of ginger; a teaspoonful of cinnamon, a tablespoonful 
of brandy, and a little salt. Sweeten to taste. Line a 
deep pie pan with a good, rich crust, and fill with the 
mixture. 

Mrs. Richard Roelfs. 

Raisin Pie. — 1/2 cup raisins, 1 lemon, juice and rind ; 
1 cup water, 1 egg, 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon flour. 
Soak raisins over night. Cream egg, sugar, and flour 



218 PIES 

together. Add lemon and raisins and water they 
soaked in. Cook until thick. Bake in 2 crusts. 

Mrs. Urban Albertsen. 

Raisin Pie. — 1 cup chopped raisins, 2 tablespoons of 
sugar, 1/4 cup water, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg. Boil a few minutes, 
and bake with 2 crusts. -^^^ -^^^ Junker. 

Rhubarb Pie. — Pour boiling water over 2 cups of 
chopped rhubarb ; let stand 5 minutes, and drain. This 
takes the bitter sourness from the rhubarb, while it 
does not injure the flavor. Add 1 cup of sugar, a small 
piece of butter, a tablespoonful of flour, 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of water, and yolks of 2 eggs ; bake with 1 crust. 
Beat whites of eggs stiff with 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
spread over the pie, and brown. 

Mrs. Bertha Reinhardt. 

Strawberry Pie. — Line a pie plate with good, plain 
paste, and cover with strawberries ; put i/2 teaspoonful 
of flour with the sugar that you put over them. When 
it is nearly baked, pour over the pie the following 
custard : Put into a cup 1 egg, beat it up with a table- 
spoonful of sugar, and add enough cream or milk to 
fill the cup 1/2 ; return to the oven until it is set. Peaches 
or grapes may be used instead. 

Belleville, 111. Mrs. E. C. Magaret. 

Squash Pie. — 1 cup of boiled squash, 1 cup of sugar, 
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon, a little nutmeg, 2 cups milk, 
3 eggs, beaten separately. Mix sugar, yolks of eggs, 
squash, spice, and milk; last, the *well-beaten whites. 
Bake in under crust. 

Quincy, 111. Mrs. Wm. Balcke. 

Tender Meringue. — To have your meringue for your 
pies always tender add i/4 teaspoon of corn starch and 
1/4 teaspoon of baking powder, per pie, to the egg 
whites when you beat in the sugar. 

Mrs. Henry P. Heisel. 

Vinegar Pie. — 1 egg, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 teaspoon 
lemon extract, 1 cup sugar, 3 tablespoons vinegar, % 
cup water. Flavor with nutmeg; bake with 2 crusts. 

Norton, Kan. Mrs. Fred Neff. 



HONEY, PRESERVES, ETC. 

"With dispatchful looks, in haste she turns, on hospitable 
thoughts intent. ' ' — Milton. 

Hints for jelly making. Crab-apples have a reliable 
jellying quality. To them you may also add plum, 
grape, blackberry or some other fruit juice less likely 
to harden satisfactorily. From one quarter to one- 
half of plum or other fruit will give the flavor of the 
foreign fruit without losing the jellying quality. For 
a delicate flavor add a rose geranium leaf to the juice 
when boiling it with sugar, a single leaf will flavor 
a whole kettle full of juice. Spice jelly is a most de- 
licious relish for cold meats, especially lamb and veal. 
To make it, add a cupful of whole spices stewed into a 
muslin bag, to a large kettle full of juice while boil- 
ing, removing the bag just before straining the juice 
into glasses. Use allspice, stick cinnamon, cassia buds 
and whole cloves, adding the last with judgment be- 
cause of its dominant flavor. 

Suggestions For Preserves. — "When preserves is done 
take the kettle off the stove and set in a pan of cold 
water. Keep stirring until cool and then can. 

Mrs. Peebles. 

Heavy Preserve for Pickling Fruits. — 2 cups vine- 
gar, 1 cup water, 3 cups sugar, add spices to suit the 
taste. 

Mrs. Frank Heckman. 

Rich pound for pound preserves in jam can be put 
away without sealing. Simple cover with melted para- 
fine and covers. 

General Directions For Jelly. — For berries, cur- 
rants, or grapes, heat the fruit, strain it, and add 1 lb. 
of sugar to each pint of juice. Crab apples, quinces, or 
apples must be stewed before straining, and to apple 
jelly add the juice of 4 lemons to 6 pints of apple juice. 
For any jelly, boil the juice about 20 minutes, add the 

220 



HONEY, PRESERVES, ETC. 221 

sugar, heated in the oven, and let it boil 2 or 3 minutes 
more. 

Apple Butter, Baked. — Quarter and core a gallon of 
good cooking apples ; wash, and place in a large kettle. 
Add a quart of water, and when the apples are thor- 
oughly cooked, set aside to cool. Press through col- 
ander. To each quart of sauce add a large cup of 
sugar and a piece of stick cinnamon. Place in a crock 
or large, granite vessel, and bake in a moderate oven 
3 or 4 hours. To test the butter, take out a few spoon- 
fuls in a sauce dish, and cool; if there is no watery 
edge, it is done. Put up in glass jars, and seal while 
hot. 

Mrs. E. B. Sanborn. 

Apricot Jam. — Wipe off fresh apricots with a cloth — 
do not peel. Cut into quarters, and then halves. Save 
pits. Measure % as much sugar as fruit. Let fruit 
stand with sugar until syrup forms, or over night. 
Cook pits with a little water. Put fruit on to boil, add 
water from pits ; let cook about % hour, or till % done. 
Let stand several hours, or over night. Next morning 
boil again until thick enough. Must be stirred con- 
stantly during last boiling, as scorches very easily. 
Seal airtight while hot. 

Mrs. Arthur W. Hinners. 

Cantaloupe Preserves. — 1 dozen cantaloupe, peeled 
and cut in small pieces; % as much sugar as canta- 
loupe; enough water to mix well. Wiien about half 
done, add ^2 lemon, sliced thin; boil slowly until it 
thickens. This is very good. 

Mrs. Ed. Wetzel. 

Crab-Apple Jelly. — For the jelly cut the crab-apples 
into quarters and wash them thoroughly in a colander. 
Worm-holes and decayed spots must, of course, be cut 
out ; but it is not necessary to remove stems, skin, 
cores or blossom ends. Place the fruit in a porcelain 
kettle, add cold water barely to cover and cook slowly 
until thoroughly soft. Mash with a wooden spoon or a 
potato masher, and pour into a flannel jelly-bag wrung 



222 HONEY, PRESERVES, ETC. 

out of hot water. Drain over night. In the morning 
measure the juice, add an equal quantity of sugar and 
boil, skimming carefully until the syrup begins to 
thicken on the skimmer. Very careful housewives 
strain a second time through cheese cloth before pour- 
ing into scalded glasses. It often stiffens while it is 
being poured. Cover with melted paraffine after the 
jelly has cooled. 

Crab-Apples, Spiced. — Wipe sound, large crab-apples 
and remove the blossoms. In its place put a whole 
clove, and in every fourth apple an extra clove. Put 
the apples in a steamer and steam until soft ; then put 
them into cans without criishing. For the syrup allow 
one and one-half cups of sugar for a pint of water, and 
boil until it will just fill a quart can of the apples. Can 
and seal while hot. Do not remove the stems. 

Crab-Apple, Preserves. — Cover the crab-apples with 
water. Cook slowly until a little tender ; then carefully 
skim out and set aside to cool. For every cup of 
water left in the kettle add 2 cups of sugar ; boil until 
clear, skin and cool. When both are cold, return the 
fruit to the syrup, and set again over the fire. The 
moment it actually boils remove it from the fire and 
put it immediately into cans, sealing, as usual. 

Crab-apples also are nice when "sweet-pickled," and 
when cooked with quinces they make excellent con- 
serve. Just be careful to not let your mixture become 
too "gummy." 

Cranberry and Apple Jelly. — 1 pint apple juice, 1 
pint cranberry juice, 3 cups of sugar. Prepare apple 
juice as for apple jelly. Prepare cranberry juice as 
for cranberry jelly. Combine them and boil five min- 
utes. Add the sugar and boil until the jelly test is 
obtained. 

Delicious Preserves. — 1 peck pears, 2 quarts cran- 
berries, 3 oranges, 9 lbs. sugar. Parboil orange peeling 
twice, and grind all together. Boil 30 minutes. 

Mrs. D. D. Velde. 



HONEY, PRESERVES, ETC. 223 

Grape Conserve. — 3 lbs. sugar, 2 lbs. raisins, 1 lb. 
chopped walnuts. Stem 1 basket grapes, put in the 
kettle, cover with cold water, cook until soft ; put 
through ricer. Put on stove, and add sugar and boil 
up ; add raisins and boil up ; add nuts. Good to serve 
with meat. 

Mrs. J. H. Brooks. 

Grapefruit-Orange Marmalade. — 1 orange, 1 grape- 
fruit, 1 lemon. Slice as thin as possible the pulp and 
skin after removing seeds and core of grapefruit. Add 
3 times as much water as fruit ; let stand over night. 
Next morning boil 10 minutes ; let stand another night. 
.The next morning add equal amount of sugar. Cook 
until it jellies. 

Peoria, 111. Katherine Velde. 

Grape Jam. — Take your grapes and separate the 
skins from the pulp, keeping them in separate dishes. 
Put the pulp in preserving kettle with a touch of water ; 
when thoroughly heated, run them through a colander 
to seed them ; then put the skins and pulp together, 
adding % as much sugar as fruit ; add merely water 
enough to keep from burning ; cook slowly for about 1 
hour, or until the proper thickness. 

Mrs. G. N. Weber. 

Grape Jelly. — Pick grapes from stems and wash 
thoroughly, put them into preserving kettle and cover 
with water and heat slowly until juice is well drawn 
out of them ; pour into a sack and allow to drain 
for an hour without pressure. To two scant cups of 
juice add 1 heaping cup of sugar and boil for 20 min- 
utes or until it jells when tested. Pour into glasses 
and seal when cool. 

Mrs. Walter F. Fluegal. 

Grape Jelly Spiced. — Make same as grape jelly 
only to each quart of juice add % teaspoon of whole 
cloves and one stick of cinnamon. This is very good 
to serve with game or cold meat and also makes a 
good emergency sandwich filling. 

Mrs. Walter F. Fluegal. 



HONEY, PRESERVES, ETC. 225 

Grapes, Raisins, Nuts, Oranges, Sugar. — Remove 
skins from grapes. Put pulps in separate kettle. Bring 
to boiling point then strain. Cook grape skins and 
oranges until orange skins are tender, then add to 
strained pulp. Measure cup of sugar to a cup of fruit 
and cook until thickened. Add chopped nuts, not too 
fine, and pour into sterilized glasses. 

Amelia Zerwekh. 

Grape Preserves. — 5 lbs. grapes, 5 lbs. sugar, 2 lbs. 
raisins, juice of 2 oranges and rind of 1 orange. Mix 
all together, and boil 15 minutes. 

Mrs. 0. A. Smith. 

Gooseberry Goodie. — 2 quarts gooseberries, 3 lbs. 
sugar, 2 lbs. seeded raisins, juice of 3 oranges, rind of 2 
oranges. Gooseberries and raisins simmer together 
good and jam ; add sugar and oranges. Eat with meat. 

Mrs. J. H. Brooks. 

Orange Marmalade. — 1 quart rhnbarb, when cut 
in pieces ; 4 oranges, 1 lemon, 3 lbs. sugar. Grate the 
rind and put in last. Peel all white off, and break 
oranges in pieces. Extract juice of lemon. Cook 
rhubarb, add sugar, and cook; then add juice and 
fruit ; and lastly, the grated rind, and cook until stiff. 

Mrs. C, J. Aydelott. 

Orange Marmalade. — Slice very thin 3 oranges and 
1 lemon; juice of 1 lemon. Measure, and add to each 
cupful 11/2 cups of water. Boil 1/2 hour. Set aside until 
next day; measure, and to each cupful add 1^^ cups 
sugar, and boil % hour. 

Mrs. Henry Zuckweiler. 

Peaches, Canned. — Scald one bushel of peaches, have 
water boiling, then cover and let stand until cool, 
then the peach peel Avill come off very readily. Cut 
peaches in halves and place in jars as many as jar 
will hold. Then put boiling syrup over and seal at 
once. Much better if put in tin cans. 

Mrs. W. H. Wilcox. 

Peach Honey. — Take peach peeling and cover with 
water. Set on to boil, and when done, rub through a 



226 HONEY, PRESERVES, ETC. 

colander ; add to this as much sugar as you have juice, 
and put on again to boil 1 hour ; when about done, add 
a little stick of cinnamon. Very fine. 

Mrs. Henry Van Horn. 

Pear Butter. — Pare, core, and cook pears until well 
done ; put through colander. To each quart of pears 
add 1 quart sugar ; add a few cinnamon sticks. Put 
in the oven, and bake 3 or 4 hours. 

Mrs. R. D. Lackmon. 

Peax Honey. — Peel and core the pears. Cut in 
quarters, and put through meat grinder. To 2 cups of 
the ground pulp add l^/^ cups sugar. Cook as you 
would apple butter, or until it is thick enough to 
spread. Put in a few sticks of cinnamon for flavor. It 
will not be necessary to add water, as the juice of the 
pears is sufficient. It can be cooked in the oven like 
apple butter, and thus will require very little attention. 

Mrs. Christ Heckman. 

Pear Preserve. — Peel and cut in thick slices as many 
pears as desired. Boil until tender, then take out pears 
and add cup for cup of sugar and water pears were 
boiled in ; let boil to a syrup, then add pears and cook 
until preserved. 

Mrs. W. H. Willcox. 

Pear Preserves. East India. — 4 lbs, hard pears, cut 
in cubes ; 3 lbs. granulated sugar, % lb. green ginger 
root, chopped fine ; juice and rind of 2 lemons, % pint 
of water. Cook 3 hours slowly, being careful not to 
burn. 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. Frederick L. Block. 

Pear and Quince Honey. — 1 quart of pears, 1 pint 
of quinces — grind both in coarse grinder; use as much 
sugar as fruit; add 2 cups of water, and boil until 
thick, or about I/2 hour. 

Mrs. Henry Lackman. 
Pineapple Honey. — 1 quart grated pineapple, 2 
quarts cooked pie plant, sugar enough to make a nice 
preserve. 

;Mrs. Richard Roelfs. 



HONEY, PRESERVES, ETC. 227 

Quince Honey. — 5 pints sugar, 1 pint of water — boil 
until thick ; then add 5 quinces, chopped or ground fine ; 
boil 15 minutes. 

Mrs. Millard Hiett. 

Quince Honey. — 4 lbs. ganulated sugar, 1 quart water 
boiled together 20 minutes. Add 2 good, firm quinces, 
grated. Put in as fast as grated to keep it white; 
then boil all 2 minutes more, and put in tumblers 
same as jelly. 

Mrs. Maurer. 

Quince Honey. — Pare and core 5 quinces, and put 
the quince through the fine food chopper. Put the 
skins and cores in kettle to boil in 1 pint of cold 
water ; when they are tender, strain the liquid off, and 
add cold water to make a pint of juice ; then pour that 
juice into preserving kettle, with 5 lbs. of fine sugar. 
When dissolved, add quinces, and after they begin to 
boil, just boil hard 15 minutes and put into tumblers. 
This makes several glasses, and is most delicious. 

Mrs. Richard Roelfs. 

Quince Preserve. — Peel and cut in thick slices as 
many quinces as desired. Boil until tender then take 
out quinces and add cup for cup of sugar and water 
quinces were boiled in. Let boil to a syrup, then add 
quinces and cook until preserved. 

Mrs. W. H. Willcox. 

Raspberries, Blackberries, and Strawberries Canned. 
— Wash fruit well and place in sterilized fruit jars. Put 
2 cups of sugar for every quart of fruit and 2 cups of 
water, let boil 15 minutes and pour over fruit and seal 
air tight. Set cans in a pan that is deep enough to 
pour boiling water over them. After covering the 
cans with boiling water wrap the pan well with 
blanket or rugs to keep the heat in as long as possible. 
When the water is cold they are done. 

Malinda Kreigsman. 

Rhubarb Preserve. — 3i/^ lbs. of rhubarb, 4 oranges, 
41/^ lbs. of sugar. Cut rhubarb in small pieces, and 
add iVs lbs. of sugar. Let stand over night. In the 



228 HONEY, PRESERVES, ETC. 

morning remove the skins from oranges, and then add 
the remainder of sugar and oranges to the rhubarb. 
Boil until thick. Stir constantly. 

Grace Jannsen. 

Rhubarb Conserve. — 1 cup of rhubarb (cut in pieces 
without peeling), 1 cup of sugar, 1 orange ground up 
whole, after removing the seeds. Boil about 20 minutes, 
stirring frequently. Put in jars. 

Mrs. M. Helm. 

Strawberry Currant Jam. — Into a preserving kettle 
put 4 quarts of strawberries, add 2 cups of currant 
juice, bring to boiling point and cook for twenty min- 
utes, stirring frequently. Add three pounds of sugar, 
boil twenty minutes longer and pour boiling hot into 
glasses and seal when cool. 

Mrs. Walter F. Fluegal. 

Strawberry Sun Preserve. — 8 lbs. of strawberries, 6 
lbs. sugar. Crush the little berries, boil juice, sugar, and 
a little water 10 minutes ; add nice berries, bring slowly 
to a good boil ; spread on platters and dry in sun about 
10 hours, or till thick enough ; then put in jelly glasses 
and seal with paraffine. 

Mrs. Irving Weimer. 

Strawberry Preserve. — 1% lbs. granulated sugar, 
enough hot water to dissolve sugar. Put on to boil 
until it candies; add 1 lb. strawberries (not over-ripe), 
boil about 15 minutes, or till it jells. The berries will 
swell and be much larger. Do not try to cook more in 
1 kettle than recipe calls for, 

Lincoln, 111. Mrs. Gustave Briegel. 

Strawberry-Pineapple Preserve. — 2 cups strawber- 
ries, 1 cup pineapple, put through grinder; 3 cups 
sugar, juice of 1 lemon. Boil slowly 30 minutes, or until 
right thickness. Seal hot. 

Mrs. Arthur W. Hinners. 

Sug^r Pears. — Peeled and prepared the same as 
spiced crab-apples are very good. 

Sun Cherry Preserves. — Take equal parts of stoned 
cherries and sugar; mix the sugar well with the cher- 



HONEY, PRESERVES, ETC. 229 

ries, and set over a slow fire until the sugar is dissolved ; 
then put over fire and boil briskly for about 3 minutes. 
Skin thoroughly, then put on plates in sun until thick ; 
put in cans, and seal. 

Tremont, III. Mrs. Bird. 

Tomato and Peach Preserves. — Peel 24 good-sized 
ripe tomatoes ; quarter and cook slowly 1 hour with 1 
cup less of sugar than you have tomatoes. Add 9 large 
peaches that have been peeled and sliced thin ; cook 
another hour. Leave in 4 of the peach stones while 
cooking. Upon removing from the fire, add 1 table- 
spoon of vanilla. Place in glasses and, when cold, cover 
with parafQne. 

Mrs. 0. A. Smith. 



PICKLES AND RELISHES 

' ' Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers. ' ' 

Beans, to Can. — Cook the beans until tender. Pour 
off the water, and cover with boiling water. When 
boiling, add 1 tablespoon vinegar to each quart of 
beans. Can in glass fruit jar. 

Mrs. Chas. Herer. 

Beans, Pickled. — Take tender, green beans, string 
them, and cut fine; then mix with plenty of salt, pack 
tight in fruit jar with a layer of salt on top ; then fill 
the jar with cold hydrant water ; screw on top air-tight. 
Beans put up this way will keep for winter use. 

To boil the beans, pour off the salt water and wash 
in fresh water. Put beans in kettle with cold water, 
let them come to a boiling point; pour off this water, 
then boil tender with a piece of beef or pork. 

Mrs. a. Meinen. 

Celery Relish. — 1 gallon vinegar, 2 heads of cab- 
bage, 2 gallons green tomatoes, 2 bunches of celery, 
4 cups of sugar, 2 ounces mustard seed, 2 ounces celery 
seed, 2 large mango peppers. Boil until thoroughly 
cooked. This recipe makes 6 quarts. 

Mrs. H. H. Bruns. 

Celery Belish. — One peck of green tomatoes, chopped 
and drained, 6 stalks of celery, 4 peppers, 6 large 
onions, 2 pints of sugar, 3 teaspoons of salt, 3 pints 
of vinegar. Boil 5 minutes and seal. 

Mrs. J. Zerwekh. 

Chili Sauce. (Very Good.) — 9 large, ripe tomatoes, 
4 green peppers, 2 large onions. Remove skins from 
tomatoes. Chop onions and peppers together very fine ; 
then add tomatoes, and chop them. Add 2 cups 
vinegar, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 tea- 
spoon cloves, 1 teaspoon allspice, 1 teaspoon ginger. 
Stir all together till well cooked ; stir frequently. 

Mrs. John A. New. 

231 



232 PICKLES AND RELISHES 

Chili Sauce. — 38 ripe tomatoes, 12 large onions, 10 
green peppers, 3 cups sugar, 1 pint vinegar, 14 cup 
salt. Wash and slice tomatoes and onions; remove 
seeds from peppers, and cut peppers in small pieces; 
add other ingredients, mix well, and boil about 21/2 

^°^^^- Mrs. Rudolph Frey. 

Chili Sauce. — 18 large tomatoes, 6 onions (ground), 
3 red peppers, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon salt, 

2 cups vinegar. Boil I/2 hour. 

Mrs. Dora Hecker. 
Chili Sauce. — 1 peck tomatoes, scalded and peeled; 

3 teacups green peppers, chopped fine ; 2i/^ teacups 
sugar, 3 teacups onions, chopped; 1 cup salt, 1 quart 
vinegar, 3 teaspoons cloves, ground; 3 teaspoons cin- 
namon, 2 teaspoons ginger, a little cayenne pepper. 
Cook until thick, about 2 hours. 

Mrs. E. F. Unland. 

Chow Chow. — 1 large cabbage, 11/2 quarts of onions, 
after they are chopped; a few pieces of horseradish, 
6 large green peppers, 1 peck of green tomatoes. Chop 
tomatoes and cabbage, and sprinkle a small teacup 
of salt over the top ; let stand all night. Hang up in 
the morning to drain until next morning. Put in the 
kettle y2. gallon vinegar, 2 tablespoons of celery seed, 
3 tablespoons of white mustard seed, 4 lbs. of sugar. 
When hot, empty in your kettle the pickles. Have 
enough of vinegar to cover. Cook until soft. Stir in 
2 tablespoons of turmeric and % cup dry mustard to 
thicken. Put in jars. 

Washington, D. C. Mrs. Lena Lunenburg. 

Chow Chow. — 1 peck green tomatoes, % peek onions, 
10 green cucumbers, 3 large stalks celery, 10 green or 
red peppers, head of cabbage. Slice, and sprinkle 1/2 
pint of salt over tomatoes, onions, and cucumbers, 
and let stand over night; then squeeze dry, and add 
2 tablespoons of cinnamon, 1 tablespoon turmeric, 1 
cup dry mustard, 4 cups light-brown sugar. Cover 
with vinegar ; let boil 1 hour ; bottle air-tight while hot. 

Mrs. John Look. 



PICKLES AND RELISHES 233 

Chow Chow. — 2 quarts vinegar, 2 quarts white 
onions, 2 quarts pickles, 2 heads cauliflower, 6 green 
peppers, 1/4 can Coleman's mustard seed, % ounce 
turmeric, 3 cups sugar, 1 cup flour. Cut vegetables 
small ; put in a crock, sprinkle with small cup of salt ; 
pour boiling water over and cover lightly until the 
next day ; then drain. Mix mustard and turmeric in a 
cold vinegar, wet the flour in a little cold water; add 
both to the vinegar. Let it boil, and put in the veg- 
etables. Let all boil 5 minutes ; then put in glass jars ; 
seal tightly. Ready for use in 6 weeks. 

Chicago, 111. Mrs. R. W. Brett. 

Chow Chow Pickles, Sweet. — 1 peck green toma- 
toes, V2 dozen onions, 1 dozen green peppers, V^ peck 
ripe tomatoes, 3 heads of cabbage, 3 red peppers. Chop 
any size you wish ; sprinkle with i/^ pint of salt. Put 
all in a flour sack, and let drain over night. Put them 
in a kettle with 3 lbs. of brown sugar, i/^ teacup of 
horseradish, grated ; 1 tablespoonful each of black pep- 
per and ground mustard. Let boil slowly for 1 hour, 
then put in jars or bottles. 

Mrs. Maurer. 

Chutney Sauce. — 12 sour apples, stewed fine ; 2 green 
peppers, seeded; 6 green tomatoes, 4 small onions, 1 
cup seeded raisins. Chop all this fine. 2 tablespoons 
mustard seed, 2 tablespoons salt (scant), 1 tablespoon 
powdered sugar, 2 cups brown sugar, 1 quart of vin- 
egar. Put on to boil. When the last is to the boiling 
point, add chopped mixture and let it simmer for 1 
hour. Then add apple (sauce), and let boil up good. 
Seal air-tight. 

Mrs. Adolph Nierstheimer. 

Cold Catsup. — 1 peck tomatoes, chopped fine, 9 stalks 
of celery, chopped, 4 green mangoes, chopped, 6 onions, 
chopped, 1 cup salt, 1^^ cups sugar, 2 cups grated 
horseradish, 1 tablespoon black pepper, 1 tablespoon 
ground cinnamon, 2 quarts cider vinegar. Mix well. 

Mrs. J. Zerwekh. 



234 PICKLES AND RELISHES 

Corn Salad. — 11/2 dozen ears of corn, 1 head cab- 
bage, 3 red peppers, 2 green peppers, 1 tablespoon 
celery seed, 1 tablespoon fresh mustard, 1 tablespoon 
mustard seed, 1 cup sugar, 2 quarts vinegar, 2 table- 
spoons salt, 2 white onions. Cut corn from ears. Chop 
cabbage and peppers. Mix together. Cook 20 minutes, 

Pekin, 111. Anna Geisert. 

Corn Salad. — 1 dozen ears of corn, 1 small head of 
cabbage, 1 teacupful of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of mustard, 
2 red peppers without seed ; vinegar enough to cover ; 
salt to taste. Mix well. Put on stove, and let the whole 
simmer for 15 or 20 minutes. Seal in bottles while hot. 

Miss Ida Beinfohr. 

Corn, Dried. — Take as many ears of corn as you 
like. Cut corn off cob, and dry in the oven until milk 
does not run. Then put in sun to dry — 1 day if sun is 
hot. Put in flour sack, and hang in attic in a dry place. 
Cook about 3 hours, season with salt, pepper, and 
butter, and a little milk, 

Mrs. D, Meuller. 

Com, to Salt Down. — Take 1/5 salt, 4/5 corn, pack 
down in jar solidly with potato masher, cover cloth 
over, and weight it down ; if scum should form, clean it 
off, as with sauer kraut; needs no water, as enough 
juice forms from the salt. ' 

To cook : Put on with cold water and a little soda ; 
let come to a boil, drain ; add more cold water, and, if 
necessary, drain again, till not too salty, after which 
boil until tender, and prepare for the table with milk, 
butter, pepper, and a little sugar, as the salt takes 
out the natural sweetness. 

Quincy, 111. Mrs. Wm. Balcke. 

Chop Pickle. — 1 peck green tomatoes, 6 large onions, 
4 green peppers, 4 red peppers. Grind all through 
grinder ; add 1 cup salt, and let stand 24 hours. Then 
drain well, and boil 15 minutes in 1 quart vinegar and 
2 quarts water. Drain again, and then allow to just 
boil up in a syrup of 2 quarts vinegar, 2 lbs. brown 



PICKLES AND RELISHES 235 

sugar, and % pint mustard or celery seed. 

Jacksonville, 111. Winifred Wackerle. . 

Cuciunber Pickles. — Add to 1 gallon of good cider 
vinegar, 1 cupful each of salt and sugar, and 1/2 cup of 
ground mustard ; wash the cucumbers, and place them 
in a jar of prepared vinegar, or in cans if preferred. 
Stir vinegar well, and pour cold over the cucumbers, 
and seal for long keeping. If good vinegar is used, these 
mustard pickles will keep through the winter without 
canning. If kept in a jar, keep pickles under the 
vinegar by means of a weight. The pickles may be 
placed a few at a time as gathered into the vinegar. 
Do not put in too many pickles for the vinegar. 

Allentown, 111. Miss Mae Sperry. 

Currant Soy or Spiced Currants. — 2 bowls of cur- 
rants to 1 bowl of sugar ; 1 spoon of cloves and allspice 
mixed, 1 spoon each of cinnamon, nutmeg, and mace, 
1 bowl of vinegar. This is for 8 bowls of currants. 
Boil about 3 hours, slowly. 

Peoria, 111. Edna A. Thomas. 

Cucumber Relish. — 1 peck cucumbers, % peck white 
onions, 6 green and red peppers, mixed, 5 cents celery 
seed, 5 cents mustard seed, 1 horseradish root. Grind 
onions, peppers, and horseradish. Slice cucumbers, 
soak over night in salt ; drain in morning ; add vinegar 
enough to cover, diluted with y^ water, i/^ cup sugar; 
put in a kettle, and let come to a boil, and can. 

Mrs. D. Mueller. 

Dill Pickles. — Wash and pick blossoms off the pickles. 
Put 2 teaspoons of salt and 1 of pepper, and some dill, 
in bottom of fruit jar. Pack pickles in, and more 
dill on top, and a little piece of alum. Boil % water 
and Ys vinegar, and pour over pickles. Put in air- 
tight Yz gallons jars. Are ready for use when vinegar 
becomes a little milky. 

Peoria, 111. Edna A. Thomas. 

Green Chunk Pickles. — Soak large cucumbers 3 days 
in salt brine, then in clear, cold water 3 days. Wipe 
dry, and cut in chunks and drain. Then stew in 



236 PICKLES AND RELISHES 

weak vinegar for 2 hours slowly, in which is a piece of 
alum as large as a walnut. Throw off vinegar, and 
drain. Then to 7 lbs. of pickles, use 3 pints of vinegar, 
3 lbs. of sugar, 1 ounce whole allspice, 1 ounce whole 
cinnamon, and 1 ounce celery seed. Boil vinegar, 
sugar, and spices 3 minutes ; pour over pickles in jars, 
and seal. 
Peoria, 111. Mrs. H. A. Geise. 

Green Tomato Pickle. — A small amount of celery 
seed, 3 cups of vinegar, 11/2 cups of water, % table- 
spoonful each of whole cloves and ground mustard, 1 
tablespoonful ground cinnamon, V2 tablespoonful 
ground cloves, y^ tablespoonful ground black pepper, 
3 cups of sugar, 1 gallon sliced green tomatoes, and 8 
onions. Put each in salt brine and let stand over 
night, and drain in the morning. Heat the vinegar 
mixture, add tomatoes and onions, and boil slowly 1 
hour. Seal while hot. 

Topeka, 111. Mbs. Clarence Himmel. 

Mangoes. — Take large green sweet peppers, slit down 
one side, remove the core and seeds carefully. Place 
the shells in salt water five days. Remove and drain, 
chop cabbage, onion, red cabbage, green tomatoes and 
some horseradish, celery seed and mustard seed to 
taste. Fill the peppers the natural size, sew up care- 
fully, cover with cold spiced vinegar. ' Put in jars and 
place a light weight on them to keep under vinegar. 
Tie up tightly. 

Mixed Pickles. — 3 pints green tomatoes, sliced; 2 
quarts onions, 2 quarts cauliflower or cabbage, 2 quarts 
cucumbers, cut in 2-inch pieces ; 5 green peppers, cut 
fine. Pour over a brine of 1 gallon of cold water and a 
1/2 pint of salt. Let stand over night. Drain, and pour 
over fresh water. Heat to scald, and then drain. Make 
dressing of 1 cup of flour, 8 tablespoons mustard, i/^ 
tablespoon turmeric. Mix with cold vinegar to a 
smooth paste ; add 1 cup of sugar, 2 qu-arts of vinegar ; 
cook until it thickens, stirring all the time. Add in- 



PICKLES AND RELISHES 237 

gredients, and cook uutil heated through. Seal while 
hot. 

Mrs. Bertha Reinhardt. 

Mustard Pickles. — 2 quarts each of cucumbers, small 
onions, green tomatoes; 6 red peppers, 2 heads of 
cauliflower — soak over night in strong salt water. 1 
gallon vinegar (weaken a little), 6 teaspoons Cole- 
man's mustard, ^2 cup flour, 2 cups sugar, 2 scant 
tablespoons turmeric powder. Mix flour, mustard, sugar, 
and turmeric together ; wet with a little of the vinegar ; 
add to the rest of vinegar, and pour over pickles. Put 
over fire until it thickens and pickles are heated 
through. Seal while hot. 

Mrs. p. J. Kriegsman. 

Pepper Hash. — 24 Bell green peppers, 18 medium- 
size onions — remove seeds, and chop both fine. Then 
pour boiling water on, and let stand 15 minutes. 
Drain; then add iy2 cups sugar, 1^/^ pints vinegar, 1 
tablespoon salt. Bottle. 

St. Paul, Minn. Mrs. John L. Hinners. 

Pepper Slaw. — 2 large heads of cabbage, 2 dozen 
sweet mango peppers — 8 red, 8 green, and 8 yellow; 1 
large head celery. Put through meat chopper. Over 
it pour 2 quarts of vinegar, salt to taste (2 heaping 
tablespoons), 25 cents' worth of C. sugar, 5 cents' 
worth of white mustard seed. Let stand 48 hours, and 
then seal in fruit jars. Will keep all winter. 

Mrs. O. Miener. 

Peaches, Pickled. — Make a syrup of proportion of 
1 quart vinegar and 3 pints sugar, w^ith a stick of 
cinnamon, a bag of cloves, and allspice. Pour this 
boiling hot over the peeled peaches. Let stand till 
next day. Drain off syrup, boil, and drop peaches into 
it until they can be pierced with a silver fork. Lift 
peaches out of syrup, and put in bottles; then pour 
boiling syrup over them, and seal. 

Mrs. R. D. Lackman. 

Peaches or Pears, Brandied. — 4 lbs. of fruit, 4 lbs. 
of sugar, 1 pint best white brandy. Make a syrup of 



238 PICKLES AND RELISHES 

the sugar and enough water to dissolve it. Let this 
come to a boil ; put the fruit in and boil 5 minutes. 
Having removed the fruit carefully, let the syrup boil 
15 minutes longer, or until it thickens well : add the 
brandy, and take the kettle at once from the fire. Pour 
the hot syrup over the fruit, and seal. If, after the 
fruit is taken from the fire, a reddish liquor oozes from 
it, drain this off before adding the clear syrup. Put 
up in glass jars. 

Mrs. R. W. Brett. 

Peaches, Pickled. — Peel and stone peaches, cutting 
in half. To every 4 lbs. of peeled peaches take 2 lbs. of 
sugar and a generous i/^ pint of vinegar. Boil vinegar 
and sugar, skimming carefully. Drop in peaches, and 
let them become thoroughly heated. Take out peaches, 
and let juice boil down till it thickens ; when cold, pour 
over peaches. In a few days drain off juice ; boil again 
a few minutes ; then, when cold, pour over peaches. 
They are best kept in stone jars. 

Mrs. Fred Kuhlman. 

Peaches, Sweet Pickled. — 8 lbs. fruit, 4 lbs. sugar, 
1 quart vinegar, 2 ounces each stick cinnamon and 
cloves. Boil the sugar and vinegar with the cinnamon 
5 minutes. Put in a few peaches at a time, sticking a 
few cloves in each peach. When done enough to prick 
easily with a fork, take them out and put in jar; cook 
others, until all have been cooked. Boil syrup down to 
1/2 the original quantity. Pour over peaches, and seal 
while hot. Clingstones are best. Rub down off with a 
coarse towel. Leave skin on. 

Mrs. John Blume. 

Peaches, Spiced. — 7 lbs. of peaches, 4 lbs. of sugar, 
1 pint of vinegar. Tie unground cinnamon and cloves 
in a very thin cloth, and drop in the syrup and let it 
boil. 

Delavan, Hi. Mrs. J. H. Perry. 

Peaches or Plums, Sweet Pickled. — The clingstone 
peaches are best for pickling. To 8 lbs. of fruit allow 
4 lbs, of sugar, 1 quart of vinegar, 2 ounces of stick 



PICKLES AND RELISHES 23!) 

cinnamon, 2 ounces cloves. Boil the sugar and vinegar 
with the cinnamon for 5 minutes; then put in the 
peaches, a few at a time, with 1 or 2 cloves in each 
peach; Avhen they are done enough to prick easily 
with a fork, take them out in the jar, and put in others 
to cook until they have all been cooked. Boil the syrup 
doAvn to % the original quantity, and pour it over the 
peaches. Seal while hot. 

Mrs. C. D. Eldredge. 

Pickles. — 1 gallon vinegar, 3 pints olive oil, 5 cents' 
worth celery seed, 5 cents' worth mustard seed, 2 cups 
sugar, salt and red pepper to taste ; 150 small cucumber 
pickles, V2 peck small white onions. Slice and soak cu- 
cumbers in salt brine 3 hours; then drain; slice onions, 
and mix all thoroughly and seal. 

Mrs. J. H. Soldwedel. 

Pickles. — (Half sweet and sour.) — Put pickles in salt 
water (strong enough to hold an egg) for 3 days. 
Soak in fresh water over night; wipe dry with cloth, 
then put into the following solution of vinegar, let it 
come to a boil, and bottle: 8 cups vinegar, 2 cups of 
water, 1 cup of sugar, dill and spices. 

Mrs. Frank Heckman. 

Pickle. — Slice together 1 peck of green tomatoes 
and 1 peck of large onions. Pour over this a cup of 
salt, and let stand over night; drain, and chop fine; 
add 6 large red peppers (chopped), 2 lbs. brown sugar, 
2 quarts cider vinegar. Tie in a cloth i/^ of 5 cents' 
worth of cloves and V2 of 5 cents' worth of stick cin- 
namon ; drop this into the pickle, and boil the whole for 
about 2 hours. Just before removing from the stove 
add a teaspoon mustard seed and a teaspoon celery 
seed. This will make from 12 to 14 quarts. 

Mae Evans. 

Pickles in Olive Oil. — 100 pickles (about 1 peck), 
1 quart onions, 1 pint salt. Slice onions and pickles 
fine ; cover with salt for 3 hours, then drain. Scant 2 
ounces white mustard seed, scant 3 ounces black pep- 
per, scant 1 ounce celery seed, alum size of hickory nut, 



240 PICKLES AND RELISHES 

ll^ pints olive oil. Mix oil and spices, pour over 
pickles, pack in small jars ; cover with cold vinegar. 

Alma H. Smith 

Pickled Onions. — Select small onions, peel, and over 
them pour a strong, boiling hot brine; cover closely 
and the next day drain, wipe and put in cans and 
cover with cold vinegar, with whole pepper, blades 
of mace and sliced horseradish. Seal. 

Pickles, Sweet-Sour. — 1 gallon water, 2 cups salt, a 
piece of alum size of a hickory nut. Pour this mix- 
ture over pickles; let stand twenty-four hours, plunge 
into boiling water and then let stand until cool. Fix 
a syrup composed of 1 quart vinegar, 1 pint sugar, 3 
tablespoons mixed spices. Pour this mixture over 
pickles, while hot, doing this twice every other day. 
Then the last time before sealing add 3 sprouts of 
green dill on top of every bottle. 

Mrs. John Velde. 

Pickled Pears. — Peel and core 4 pounds of pears; 
stick 2 cloves into each pear. Put 2 cups of vinegar 
into a sauce pan, add 2 bay leaves, 1 blade of mace, 
3 cups of sugar, 1 stick of cinnamon broken in small 
pieces; bring to boiling point and boil for 8 minutes. 
Place the pears in the vinegar, a few at a time, cook 
until tender and pack in sterilized jars. Reduce the 
syrup one-half, then strain and pour over pears and 
seal. 

Mrs. Walter F. Fluegal. 

Piccalilli. — 1 peck green tomatoes, 8 large onions, 
chopped fine ; with this add 1 cup of salt ; let stand over 
night, and drain ; take 2 quarts water and 1 quart vine- 
gar, and let it boil up good; and then drain again. 
Then take 2 quarts vinegar, 1 lb. sugar, 1/2 lb. mustard 
seed, 2 tablespoons green pepper, 2 cinnamon, 1 clove, 1 
allspice, and % teaspoonful cayenne pepper. Let it 
boil until soft. 

Miss Louise Frey. 

Prunes (Sweet Pickled). — Pick over and wash care- 
fully 4 pounds of choice prunes. Soak for 24 hours 



PICKLES AND RELISHES 241 

and then steam for 20 minutes. Boil for ten minutes 2 
pounds of sugar, 1 pint of vinegar, 1 ounce of cloves, 
1 ounce of stick cinnamon and ^4 tablespoon of ginger. 
Add the prunes, simmer gently until tender, pour into 
sterilized jars and seal immediately. 

Amalia Zerwekh. 

Grape Catsup. — Stew 5 lbs. very ripe grapes over 
a slow fire until soft. Strain through a sieve, and add 
2% lbs. of sugar, 1 tablespoon each of cinnamon, all- 
spice, and black pepper; y2 as much each of cloves and 
salt, and 1 pint of vinegar. Boil until thick, and bottle 
and seal. Nice on cold meats, especially on cold chicken. 

Mrs. F. Heckman. 

Spiced Cherries. — Boil vinegar, sugar, and whole 
cloves same as you would for any pickle; when done, 
stand aside and let it get perfectly cold. Seed the 
cherries. Fill as many jars as desired; pour over the 
cold vinegar, and seal. If necessary, reheat the vine- 
gar, let cool, and pour over the cherries. 

Miss Lena Jansen. 

Spanish Sauce. — 1/2 peek green tomatoes, 1 small 
head of cabbage, 8 medium onions, 3 red or green pep- 
pers. Chop or grind all fine into a granite kettle ; put 
21/^ pints of vinegar and 1^^ pints brown sugar, 3 
tablespoonfuls salt, 4 tablespoonfuls ground mustard, 1 
tablespoonful turmeric. First mix mustard and tur- 
meric with a little vinegar, 1 tablespoonful cloves, 1 
tablespoonful allspice, whole spices — tie in a cloth ; add 
the chopped ingredients. Set on stove, and boil slowly 
for 1 hour, and bottle. 

Miss Clara Albertsen. 

Sweet Chopped Pickle. — 1 peck green tomatoes, i/^ 
peck green onions, 2 dozen mixed red and green pep- 
pers, all chopped fine ; 1 cup salt, mix well ; let stand 
over night ; in morning drain well, then cook the pickle 
in vinegar ; throw away vinegar, put cooked pickle in a 
crock or jar. Boil together i/^ gallon vinegar, 3 lbs. 
brown sugar, 2 tablespoons each ground cinnamon and 



242 PICKLES AND RELISHES 

pepper, 1 cup mustard seed, 1 cup celery seed, and pour 
over pickle hot. 

Chicago, 111. Mrs. R. W. Brett. 

Tomato Sauce. — 9 green tomatoes, 3 green sweet 
peppers, 4 small onions, 1 cup raisins, I/4 cup mustard 
seed — chop fine, and add 2 cups C. sugar, 4 cups vine- 
gar, 5 apples, chopped fine. Boil 1 hour. This amount 
makes 1 quart. 

Mrs. Louis Olt. 

Tomato Relish. — 1 peck ripe tomatoes — peel, and 
chop fine ;. drain in bag over night. Then add 3 cups 
finely-chopped celery, 6 large onions, 2 green peppers 
(without seed), chopped; 11/2 cups sugar, 1/0 cup salt, 
2 ounces white mustard, 1 quart cider vinegar. Mix 
well, bottle, and seal. This requires no cooking. 

Mrs. John Hermann. 

Tomato Relish. — % peck ripe tomatoes, 2 heads cel- 
ery, 1 teacup horseradish, 1 teacup chopped onions, 2 
teacups red peppers, chopped; 1 cup brown sugar, 1 
cup mustard seed, % cup salt, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 1 
teaspoon cayenne pepper, 1 teaspoon cloves, 2 tea- 
spoons black pepper, 1 quart vinegar. Mix well to- 
gether, but DO NOT cook. Put in jars or bottles. 

Peoria, 111. Edna A. Thomas. 

Tomato Catsup. — 1 gallon tomato juice, 1 pint vine- 
gar, 1 large cup of sugar, salt to taste; 1 teaspoon 
black pepper, 1 tablespoon mixed spice, 1 onion. Boil 
to 1/2 quantity; strain and bottle. 

Mrs. Dora Hecker. 

Tomato Catsup. — 1 bushel tomatoes, 1 pint salt, 3 
tablespoons celery salt, 3 tablespoons cayenne, % cup 
black pepper seed, 5 cups granulated sugar, 1 gallon 
cider vinegar, 8 or 10 good-sized onions. Boil tomatoes 
and onions 1 hour ; add vinegar boiling hot, sugar, salt, 
and spices tied up in bag; then boil another hour; 
bottle and seal. 

Mrs. 0. A. Smith. 



PICKLES AND RELISHES 243 

Tutti Frutti. — Materials : 1 2-gallon stone jar, 1 pint 
of brandy, fruit and sugar. Way of preparing : Place 
brandy in jar and add 1 quart of fruit and 1 of sugar. 
Continue from day to day to add fruit and sugar in 
these proportions. Many kinds of fruit can be used, 
but blackberries make it dark. Never use bananas. 
Strawberries, cherries, plums, red raspberries, peaches, 
oranges, and pineapple make a very good combination. 
When the jar is full, keep in a cool, dry place, but 
it is not necessary to seal it. 

Mrs. Geo. H. Glass. 

Uncooked Tomato Relish. — 1 peck ripe tomatoes, 
chopped ; let drain : 2 cups of celery, chopped ; 6 onions, 
chopped ; 6 red peppers, chopped ; 4 cups of brown su- 
gar; % cup salt, 11/4 cups whole mustard or mustard 
seed, 2 pints of vinegar, 1 tablespoon cinnamon. Mix 
well. Will keep 1 year without cooking or sealing. 

Grace Siebens. 

■Watermelon Pickle. — Cook the sliced melon until 
clear. To 1 quart cider vinegar take 3 lbs. sugar. In a 
bag put 4 ounces stick cinnamon and 2 ounces cloves. 
Cook for 5 minutes in vinegar; then boil the melon in 
this spiced vinegar for 15 minutes. 

Mrs. John A. New. 

Mint Sauce. — 1/2 cup finely-chopped mint leaves, 
1/2 cup vinegar, 1 tablespoonful powdered sugar. Add 
sugar to vinegar. When dissolved, pour over mint and 
let stand 30 minutes on back of range to infuse. If 
vinegar is very strong, dilute with water. 

Peoria, 111. Edna A. Thomas. 



BEVERAGES 

"One sip of this will bathe the drooping spirits in delight, 
Beyond the bliss of dreams." — Milton. 

Chocolate. — 2 squares chocolate, 2 teaspoons su^ar, 
3 cups milk. Whipped cream, 4 tablespoons cold 
water, 1 teaspoon vanilla, if desired. Put chocolate 
in pan with water and sugar; cook over a gentle heat 
until chocolate is melted, add the milk gradually and 
bring to boiling point. Beat until foamy and serve 
Avith a spoonful of whipped cream on top of each cup. 

Chocolate. — 3 gallons milk, 1 pound of Baker's Choc- 
olate, 2 cups of sugar. Let come to a boil. This will 
serve thirtj^-eight people twice. 

Coffee. — Take 1 rounding tablespoonful of ground 
coffee to a coffee cup of water. Mix coffee in a bowl 
with enough water and 1 beaten egg to wet coffee well. 
Put in a small sack, tie securely and place in the 
measured cold water. Bring slowly to a boil, add a 
half cup of cold water, put on back of range to settle 
and keep hot. ^^^ ^^^^^^ York. 

Frappe. — 2 cups sugar, 1 cup water, 1 cup tea (liq- 
uid), 1 pint strawberry syrup, juice of 5 lemons, juice 
of 5 oranges, 1 grated pineapple. 

Process. — Make syrup by boiling sugar and water 
10 minutes. Add tea, fruit juices, pineapple, and 
strawberry syrup. Let stand 1 hour. Strain; add 
enough ice water to make II/2 gallons liquid. Turn in 
large bowl over piece of ice. 

Mrs. a. L. Koeneke. 

Fruit Punch. — 8 lemons, 4 oranges, ^4 cup of grape, 
or any fruit juice ; 2 quarts of carbonated water. Just 
before time to serve, put a piece of ice in the punch 
bowl ; turn in the fruit juices, sweeten to taste, and add 
a few slices of orange. Add the carbonated water only 
when ready to serve, so as to lose none of its sparkle. 

Peoria, 111. Mrs. Alma Magaret Traeger. 

245 



246 BEVERAGES 

Grape Juice. — Wasli and pick the grapes and barely 
cover with water. Bring to a boil until soft and drain 
in bags until cooled. Take 4 quarts of juice, 2 quarts 
of water and 2V2 cups of sugar. Boil about ten min- 
utes and bottle while hot. 

Mrs. Kuhlman. 

Lemonade. — 1 cup sugar, 1 pint water, % cup lemon 
juice. Make syrup by boiling sugar and water 12 
minutes; cool .slightly; add lemon juice. When cold, 
dilute with ice water to suit individual tastes. Nice in 
summer, to make up a quantity, as will keep well in 
ice-box and one is prepared to serve lemonade at any 
time. Orange, pineapple, cherry, strawberry, or other 
fruit juices can be added at serving. 

Mrs. Arthur W. Hinners. 

Punch. — 2 cans grated pineapple, 2 cups strong, 
freshly-made tea (black), 3 dozen lemons, 1 dozen 
oranges, 2 pints grape juice, 5 lbs. sugar, and 6 cups 
water, cooked to syrup ; add about 10 quarts cold 
water. 

Olive A. Balcke. 

Tea. — Use 2 teaspoons of tea, 1 pint of boiling water. 
Have the water freshly boiling, scald teapot, put in 
tea and pour boiling water in the proportion given. 
Cover and keep in warm place where it will not boil. 
If it cannot be used at once pour off the tea and dis- 
card leaves. An earthen teapot is preferable. 

Iced Tea. — Teed tea is made the same as hot tea some 
hours before using, tlie tea being poured off the leaves, 
cooled and placed near the ice. Iced tea should be 
taken clear and weaker than hot and slices of lemon 
should be passed with it. 



CANDIES 

'•It is the bounty of nature that we live; but of philosophy that 
we live well. ' ' — Seneca. 

Almonds (Blanched). — To blanche almonds, cover 
with boiling water 2 minutes, drain, rub off skin and 
dry. 

Almonds (Burnt). — Take 1 lb. best almonds; wipe 
every almond separately with a cloth. Put 1 lb. sugar 
on to boil with a small amount of water; boil until it 
spins a thread; add 1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon. 
Drop almonds in syrup ; stir briskly until they absorb 
the syrup. Turn out on dish, and pick almonds apart. 
Slightly brown almonds in oven before putting in 
syrup. 

Norma Duisdiekeb. 

Almonds (Salted). — Blanch I/2 lb. of almonds. Put 
with them a tablespoonful of melted butter ajad 1 of 
salt. Stir them till well mixed, then spread them over 
a baking pan and bake 15 minutes, or till crisp, stirring 
often. They must be bright yellow-brown when done. 

Miss Minnie Schurman. 

Butter Scotch. — 1 cup Karo syrup, 1 cup sugar, I/2 
cup butter, 1 tablespoon vinegar. Boil until it gets 
brittle when dropped in cold water ; pour into buttered 
pan, and cut into squares before it becomes hard. 

Bon Bons. — The centers of bon bons are made of 
fondant shaped in small balls. Flavor as desired, 
usually vanilla ; but rose, maple, or almond extract may 
be used. Cocoanut, whole or broken nut meats, or 
candied fruit may be mixed with the fondant. To dip 
the bon bons, melt the fondant in a sauce pan over hot 
water; color and flavor as desired. A few drops of 
water may be added. Drop centers in fondant 1 at a 
time ; stir until covered ; remove from fondant with a 
fork or bent new hair-pin. Put on oiled paper. A 
half-nut meat may be placed on top as soon as dropped. 

248 



CANDIES 249 

Bitter chocolate may be melted and used to dip centers 
of fondant in. Care must be taken not to drop water 
in the chocolate. 

Olive A. Balcke. 

Candy. — Whites of 1 egg, beaten stiff; add confec- 
tioners' sugar, gradually, "until stiff enough to be 
worked into balls. Flavor with vanilla. Put English 
walnuts on each piece. 

Gertrude Kief. 

Candy, Opera Creams. — Put together and boil 2 cups 
granulated sugar, % cup boiling water, % cup syrup. 
Boil until it makes a soft ball in cold water; add a 
teaspoonful vanilla. Remove from fire, and beat until 
it starts to get thick ; add this to the beaten white of an 
egg; beat well, and pour on a buttered platter. 

Miss Cora Kief. 

Candied Oranges. — Use ripe, thin-skinned oranges of 
medium size ; peel them, taking care not to make the 
juice run: then divide into sections, and lay them on 
plates in a warm place for a few hours, so that they 
may get a little dry on the outside. Then with a wood- 
en toothpick take seeds out of thin, little pockets. 
(This can be done without starting the juice.) Put 
in sauce pan 1 lb. of best granulated sugar, ^ cup of 
water, i/^ teaspoonful cream of tartar. Stir until su- 
gar is dissolved, then boil until candy is brittle. Set 
off the fire, and dip the pieces of orange in, being care- 
ful not to stir the candy. Lay them on dishes, slightly 
greased, to dry. If candy becomes hard, add 1 spoon- 
ful or 2 of water, and heat again. Grapes or nuts can 
be prepared in the same way. 

Norma Duisdieker. 

Choice Caramels. — Cook until the mixture boils 
vigorously 2 cups granulated sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 
1% cups Karo syrup, 1 cup butter. Gradually stir in a 
second cup of sweet milk, but do not permit the boiling 
to cease a minute. Test in cold water until a firm ball 
may be formed. Just before removing from the fire, 
add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, and as much nut meats as 



250 CANDIES 

desired. When nearly cold, turn from tins; cut into 
cubes. Do not be discouraged doing the boiling, for 
sometimes it takes as much as an hour before the 
desired point is reached. 

Mrs. John W. Smith. 

Caramels. — 2 cups granulated sugar, % cup Karo 
syrup, 2 cups cream, I/2 cup butter, % square of choc- 
olate, boil chocolate, syrup, sugar, 1 cup cream and 
butter ; while boiling stir in other cup cream, but do 
not stop the boiling. Boil until when dropped in cold 
water it forms a firm ball ; add % cup nuts ; pour into 
buttered pan and cut in squares. 

Mrs. Ernest Velde. 

Chocolate Caramels. — Cook together % hour 2 cups 
light-brown sugar, I/2 cup grated chocolate, 1 cup milk, 
2 tablespoons flour, 3 teaspoons butter. 

Mabel Ferris. 

Chocolate Caramels. — 1 cup of molasses, half a cup 
of sugar, y^ pound of chocolate cut fine, ^ cup milk 
and one heaping tablespoon of butter. Boil together, 
stirring all the time. When it hardens in cold water 
pour it into shallow pans and as it cools, cut in small 
squares. 

Mrs. Harvey Wright. 

Chocolate Creams. — 2 teacups (1 lb.) granulated su- 
gar, 1 gill of water in damp weather, or a scant ^ 
pint in dry weather. Dissolve sugar in the water as 
nearly as possible. Boil without stirring until it will 
string from a fork ; then test in cold water, in which it 
should form a soft ball. Remove carefully from stove, 
and set in cool place until it becomes jelly-like. Beat 
until stiff, then knead. Various flavorings may be used, 
as desired. After kneading until firm, mould into 
cream shapes, and coat with chocolate and paraffine 
melted together in the proportion of about 4 parts 
chocolate to 1 part paraffine. 

Celt A Weaver. 

Chocolate Creams. — 2 eg^ whites, 2 cups powdered 
sugar, 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract. Beat whites of eggs 



CANDIES 251 

stiff, gradually beat into this the powdered sugar ; add 
extract, then work well. Roll in little balls, and drop 
on buttered plate. Set aside for 1 hour to harden. 
Shave chocolate in bowl ; melt over boiling water ; when 
melted, dip balls in chocolate and set aside to harden. 

Dora Look. 

Chocolate Marshmallow Fudge. — 2 cups of sugar, 1 
cup milk, 2 tablespoons cocoa, 12 marshmallows, 
butter size of walnut, ^ cup chopped nuts. Mix well 
the sugar and cocoa, and gradually add the milk. Put 
on stove and add butter. Let boil until it will form a 
ball when a few drops are are put in water. Take from 
stove and beat in the marshmallows and nuts. Beat 
hard, and put in buttered pans to cool. Mark off the 
squares before it gets too cool to keep from breaking. 

Lincoln, 111. Dollie Esders. 

Cocoa Fudge. — 4 ounces cocoa, 4 cups sugar, 2 cups 
milk, butter size of an egg. Place cocoa in sauce pan 
and rub to a paste by adding part of milk. Add 4 
cups of sugar, piece of butter and all of milk except 
1/^ cup. Place on fire and boil. Then add % cup of 
milk and cook until it forms a soft ball when dropped 
into cold water. Take from fire, add vanilla, and 
beat until it is just thick enough to pour into buttered 
tins. By adding ^^ cup of milk last you will find 
fudge to be free from grain and to be smooth. When 
cool score into blocks one inch square and break. 

Mrs. Harvey White. 

Cocoanut Caramels. — iy2 lbs. of white sugar, y^ cup 
sweet milk — boil together 10 minutes; add 1 pint 
grated cocoanut, boil 10 minutes more; pour out on 
buttered dish. When cool, cut into bars. 

Lincoln, III. Gusta Rithaber. 

Cream Candy. — 2 cups of "C" sugar, 2 tablespoons 
vinegar, % (scant) teaspoon cream of tartar, 1 table- 
spoon butter, 1/2 cup of water. Boil all together until 
it threads, turn into a buttered dish. Pull when cool. 
Add pink coloring, if desired. 

Mrs. J. P. Williams. 



252 CANDIES 

Cream Candy. — 3 cups granulated sugar, % cup 
Avater, I/3 cup vinegar. Cook together without stirring 
until, when dropped into cold water, it becomes brittle. 
Pour on buttered plates to cool. Pull; flavor with 
vanilla. 

Cream Candy. — 3 cups granulated sugar, % cup 
water, 1/3 cup vinegar. Cook together without stirring 
until, when dropped into cold water, it becomes brittle. 
Pour on buttered plates to cool. Pull; flavor with 
vanilla. 

Olive A. Balcke. 

Stuffed Dates. — Take 14 of an English walnut, wrap 
in % marshmallow ; remove seed from dates, and place 
nut and marshmallow inside ; fold closely ; roll in gran- 
ulated sugar. 

Norma Duisdieker. 

Divine Divinity. — 3 cups sugar, 1 cup Karo syrup, 
V2 cup water. Boil until it will form a soft ball in 
water. Then stand aside while boiling second part. 
1/^ cup sugar, i/4 cup water — boil together until it 
threads. Pour very slowly on the beaten whites of 3 
eggs. Then add first part, beating hard and contin- 
uously. Lastly, add a cup of nut meats and put on 
greased platter to cool. 

Omaha, Neb. Ruth Koch. 

Divinity. — 11/2 pounds sugar, I/2 pint Karo syrup, 
34 pint cream, V2 pound English walnuts. Boil to a 
hard ball. 

Mrs. Louis Albertsen. 

Divinity. — 2% cups granulated sugar, % cup syrup 
(white rose preferred). Mix together thoroughly, and 
then add % cup water; boil until brittle. Have the 
whites of 2 eggs beaten, and pour the hot syrup into the 
beaten eggs. Beat until nearly cool, then add 1 cup 
English walnut meats, also candied pineapple and 
candied cherries, to suit the taste. Put in a deep pan 
to cool, and then slice off. 

Mayme G. Weaver. 



CANDIES 253 

Divinity. — Into % cnp lukewarm water dissolve 3 
cups granulated sugar. Add % cup white Karo syrup. 
Boil until it cracks in water. Pour over the well-beaten 
whites of 3 eggs. Add vanilla. Beat until it drops from 
spoon in lumps. 

Frances Rust. 

Divinity Candy. — 2 cups sugar, % cup water, % 
cup white syrup, whites of 2 eggs. Boil well together 
until a portion of it dropped in water sets and cracks. 
Remove from fire; add 1 teaspoon vanilla, pour over 
beaten whites, and beat well, gradually adding 1 cup of 
walnut meats, and continue beating until stiff. Spread 
on buttered platter, and when cool, cut in squares. 

Edna Albertsen. 

Divinity Fudge. — Boil together 2 cups granulated 
sugar, 1 cup maple syrup, and 1 tablespoon vinegar 
until a little of it hardens in cold water. Then add 1 
teaspoon vanilla, and take from fire. While this mix- 
ture has been cooking, a cupful of granulated sugar 
should have been put over the fire in another sauce pan 
with ^ cup of cold water, and boiled until the mixture 
spins a thread from the tip of the spoon. This should, 
at this stage, be put with the stiffly-whipped whites of 
2 eggs, and this stirred into the first preparation, which 
should by now have cooled slightly. Beat the 2 hard 
until they begin to stiffen, and turn in 2 cups of 
chopped nut kernels. Pour into pans, and cup into 
squares. This recipe is as good as any "Divinity 
Fudge" bought in the candy stores. 

Holt, Mo. Mrs. Thompson. 

Fudges, or Chocolate Candy. — 2 cups sugar, 1 cup 
milk, % bar bitter chocolate, 1 tablespoon butter. Mix 
sugar, milk, and chocolate; boil, stirring constantly, 
till makes a soft ball in cold water; add butter, then 
beat well and pour on buttered plate. 

Denver, Colo. Mrs. Hurst Wakefield. 

Fig Creams. — 3 cups sugar, 1 cup cream, % cup 
corn syrup, I/2 lb. figs, 1 tablespoon lemon juice. Cook 
sugar, cream, and syrup to a soft ball, test (firm and 



CANDIES 255 

waxy). Cool the mixture. When thick, add the figs, 
cut fine, and lemon juice. When too thick to pour, 
spread on buttered pan and cut in squares. 

Mackinaw, III. Mrs. H. D. Fast. 

Fruit Roll. — 1 lb. raisins, 1 lb. figs, 2 lbs. dates 
put through meat grinder. Spread on platter and 
scatter 1 lb. English walnut meats cut in small pieces, 
and work them in. Use a little powdered sugar on a 
board to roll it into a large sausage. Cut in thin slices 
to serve. 

Emden, 111. Anna Steen Zimmeb. 

Fruit Roll. — 2 cups sugar, i/^ cup water, 1 cup finely- 
chopped figs or raisins, 1 cup finely-chopped dates, 
y2 cup nut meats. Boil sugar and water until it forms 
a soft ball in cold water. Take from fire, and beat 
until it creams, being careful that it does not get too 
stiff. Then add fruit and nuts, and beat as long as 
possible. Roll in a wet cloth, and leave in a cool place 
over night. Then slice in thin strips. 

Mrs. U. J. Albertsen. 

Heavenly Fudge. — Boil together until when tested 
in cold water the syrup forms a soft ball, 2 cups of 
sugar, 1 cup milk, I/4 cake of unsweetened chocolate, 
butter size of a hickory nut. Just before taking from 
the fire, add a few drops of vanilla. Cut in small pieces 
candied cherries, pineapple, dates, figs, and nuts. Over 
the fruit pour enough wine (sweet gr&pe wine is best) 
to keep the fruit from sticking together. About a cup 
of nuts and a cup of fruit will be sufficient for this 
amount of fudge. After taking from fire, beat a few 
minutes; then add fruit (pouring off surplus wine) and 
nuts. Pour onto buttered plates ; when cool, make into 
balls and roll in powdered sugar. 

Viola Lackman. 

Ice-cream Candy. — Boil 6 pints white sugar, li/^ 
pints water, and 2 teaspoons cream of tartar until it 
ropes; flavor, pour into greased plate, and, when cool 
enough, pull until white. 

Mrs. Charles Schaefer. 



256 CANDIES 

Ice-cream Candy. — ly^ cups su^ar, Vs cup water, 
Ys teaspoon cream tartar, butter size of an egg. Boil 
15 minutes ; take from the stove ; add a teaspoon of 
vanilla ; let cool, and stretch. Do not stir it at all. 

Mrs. Frank Isenberg. 

January Thaw. — 2 cups brown sugar, ^2 cup milk, 
1 cup nuts, butter size of a walnut. Put the sugar and 
milk in a sauce pan, and let it dissolve slowly; add 
butter, and let it boil until it forms a ball when dropped 
into cold water. Remove from stove ; add the chopped 
nuts, and beat well. Turn into buttered pan, and 
when cool, cut into squares. 

Washington, D. C. Mrs. Lena Lunenburg. 

Karo Fudge. — Grate 2 squares, or ounces, of choco- 
late, and stir into % cup milk; add 2 cups granulated 
sugar and i/^ cup Karo syrup. Put over fire, and stir 
in 2 tablespoons butter. When chocolate is melted, 
allow to cook slowly, stirring once in a while. When 
the mixture makes a soft ball between the fingers, upon 
being dropped into cold water, it is done. After actual 
boiling has begun, about 5 minutes will finish it. Take 
from fire and turn in 1 teaspoon vanilla extract, and 
beat. Granulation will soon begin, when the mixture 
must be immediately turned into a buttered pan. Mark 
deeply in cubes when nearly cold. 

Tillie Heckman. 

Maple Fudge.Tr-2 cups of brown sugar, 1 cup of 

milk, 1 tablespoonful of butter. Boil till stringy, test 

in cold water; beat till creamy, and add 1 cup of 

chopped nuts. t-, ^^ 

^ ^ Emma Deboer. 

Marshmallows. — 1 box Knox Gelatine Number 3. 
Mix the granulated gelatine with 16 tablespoonfuls of 
water. Let this stand while preparing other things. 
Cook 4 teacups of sugar with 18 tablespoonfuls of 
water until it threads. Add vanilla. Beat into gelatine 
Yo hour ; pour into pan covered with corn starch and 
powdered sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar 
to 1 tablespoonful of corn starch. 

Celia Weaver. 



CANDIES 257 

Marshmallows. — 2 tablespoons Knox gelatine dis- 
solved in 6 tablespoons of warm water, 2 cups sugar, 
and 6 tablespoons warm water boiled until it threads a 
hair. Mix the 2 together, and then pour into the beaten 
white of 1 egg. Beat constantly until it becomes 
white and stiff; pour into a shallow pan (with powdered 
sugar in the bottom), and let stand over night; cut in 
squares and roll in powdered sugar. 

Mae EvxVNS. 

Marshmallows. — 2^/2 cups of sugar, 1 cup water, little 
vanilla. Boil until it forms a soft ball when dropped 
in cold water. Into this put % package of Knox gel- 
atine, that has been soaked ; beat about ^ hour ; then 
pour into pan that has been dnsted with powdered 
sugar. Cut into squares when cold, and roll in pow- 
dered sugar. 

Champaign, 111. Mrs. A. Waschee. 

Mints. — Mints with any desired flavoring, such as 
peppermint, wintergreen, vanilla, or lemon, may be 
made as follows: 2 cups sugar, 1 cup water — boil 5 
minutes; add 1 teaspoon flavoring. Stir until thick 
enough to drop in large lumps on oiled paper. The 
lump will flatten out before hardening. 

Norma Duisdieker. 

Mints. — Melt white fondant ; flavor with essence of 
peppermint or wintergreen. Drop from spoon on oiled 

P^P®^- Olive A. Balcke. 

Molasses Fudge. — 3 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 table- 
spoons butter, 2 tablespoons molasses, 1 teaspoonful 
soda. Use large pan. Boil 8 minutes to form a soft 
ball. Beat, and pour in tins to cool. 

Althea Lohman. 

Nougat. — 3 cups light-brown sugar, 1 cup water, 1 
tablespoon vinegar — boil until it clings in cold water, 
then set aside until bubbles have disappeared. Beat 
whites of 2 eggs stiff, beat mixture in egg like fudge ; 
add 1 cup nut meats and vanilla flavoring; pour in 
buttered pans and cut in squares. 

Mrs. 0. A. Smith. 



258 CANDIES 

Nut Fudge. — 2 cups light C. sugar, 2 cups gran- 
ulated sugar, 1^4 cups ricli milk, butter size of an egg, 
a little chocolate, if wanted ; put all together in a sauce 
pan, and cook till it will cling together a little when 
tested in cold water, but not quite form a ball. Take 
from stove ; let stand till almost cool ; add 1 cup 
chopped nut meats, 1 teaspoon vanilla, and beat till 
thick. Pour on buttered tins and cut. 

Ruth Balcke. 

Nut Candy. — 2 cups dark brown sugar, 1 cup sweet 
milk, 1 spoon butter. Boil until done, and then add 
flavoring and 1 cup nuts, and beat until it thickens. 
Pour in a buttered dish to cool. 

Mrs. Frank Isenberg. 

Orange Candy. — Juice of 1 large orange, 1 cup of 
nut meats, cut in small pieces, or chopped not too fine ; 
gradually add confectioners' sugar until too stiff to stir. 
Put on board and knead, adding more sugar until stiff 
enough to cut in squares. 

Gertrude Kief. 

Orange Sticks. — Peeling from 4 oranges, cut length- 
wise in narrow strips. Parboil 3 or 4 times, putting on 
in cold water each time. Boil sugar and water like for 
boiled icing, until it threads ; then boil the strips of 
peeling in this syrup till clear ; roll in granulated sugar. 

Minnie Balcke. 

Peanut Brittle.— 1 cup of sugar, i/> cup of peanuts, 
shelled, skinned, and rolled or chopped. 

Method. — Put peanuts in buttered tins and set aside. 
Make a caramel of the sugar ; stir the nuts in very 
quickly; pour into buttered tins, spreading thin and 
even. Puffed rice may be used in place of peanuts. 

Tillie Heckman. 

Peanut Candy. — 2 cups sugar, 1 cup shelled and 
chopped peanuts, or split in two; put sugar in smooth 
frying pan, and stir until melted, keeping spoon flat. 
Remove immediately from fire and add nuts. When 
it begins to stiffen, pour in buttered pan. 

Lenora Alfs. 



CANDIES 259 

Penoche Candy. — 2 cups of light '*C" sugar, y^ cup 
of cream or milk, butter the size of a walnut. Then 
let cook until it threads from spoon; remove from fire, 
beat it smooth in a pan of cold water ; add a cup of nuts, 
chopped, not too fine; add vanilla and turn into a but- 
tered pan and cut in squares before it gets cold. 

Mrs. J. p. WUiLiAMS. 

Peppermint Candy. — Boil together 2 cups of brown 
sugar and 1 cup Karo syrup until it will harden when 
dropped into cold water. Just before removing from 
fire, add piece of butter size of an egg and 12 drops of 
oil of peppermint. Mark in squares. 

TiLLiE Heckman. 

Popcorn Balls. — % cup coffee "C" sugar, % cup 
granulated sugar, 14 cup New Orleans molasses, 1/2 
cup water, 1 tablespoon vinegar. Cook in buttered 
sauce pan — cook to hard ball stage, and add i/4 ^-'up 
butter when it spins a thread. Then add Vi teaspoon 
soda, and pour over 4 quarts freshly-popped corn. Dip 
hands into cold water and form into balls. Keep in 
cool place, or wrap in oiled paper. 

Ella H. Yelde. 

Sugared Popcorn. — Boil granulated sugar and water 
and a little vinegar as for frosting, until it threads ; 
then add a small lump of butter. Pour slowly over 
popped corn in a large pan, stirring constantly. Put 
on plates and serve at once. 

MiXNiE Balcke. 

Russian Taffy. — 3 cups light brown sugar, y^ cup 
milk, butter size of a large walnut. Boil until it will 
form a soft ball in cold water. Nuts can be added. 
When done, pour onto buttered plates ; cut into squares 
when cold. 

Viola Lackman. 

Sea Foam Candy. — 3 cups sugar, % cup syrup, y^ 
cup water. Boil until threads. Beat whites of 2 eggs 
stiff; turn hot syrup over it in a thin stream, beating 
all the time. Add nut meats. 

Miss Olga Andrae. 



260 CANDIES 

Sea Foam. — 2 cups brown siiofar, I/2 cup water, 1 
teaspoon vanilla extract, y^ cup chopped nuts, 1 egg 
white. Boil the sugar and water together till a little, 
dropped in cold water, forms a hard ball. Pour the 
hot mixture over the stiffly-beaten white of the egg, 
beating while pouring. Add nuts and extract, and beat 
vigorously till the candy stiffens. When nearly set, 
drop by spoonfuls on paper. When cold, the Sea Foam 
will harden so that it can be easily taken from the 
paper. 

Washington, D. C. Mrs. Lena Lunenburg. 

Sea Foam Candy. — Boil 2 cups granulated sugar, 
y-2. cup of syrup and ly^ cups of water over a medium 
fire ; stir constantly until it forms a soft ball in cold 
water. Pour % of it into the whites of 2 stiffly-beaten 
eggs, and stir the mixture until every particle of egg is 
dissolved. Place the other I/2 over fire again, and boil 
until it forms a firm ball, after which pour into the 
^^^^ mixture, stirring slowly while pouring. Beat well 
for 5 minutes; add 1 cup chopped nuts and a small 
handful cocoanut ; beat same until too thick to pour ; 
add 14 teaspoon vanilla. 

Louise Velde. 

Sea Foam Fudge. — Boil 1 cup of light-brown sugar, 
14 cup water, 1/3 cup grated chocolate, and boil without 
stirring until it forms a firm ball in cold water. Pour 
on the beaten white of 1 egg, and beat same until it 
becomes stiff enough to drop from a spoon. 

Louise Velde. 

Sea Foam. — 2 cups granulated sugar, I/2 cup white 
Karo syrup, % cup water. Boil until it threads; stir 
into the beaten whites of 2 eggs ; 1 cup of nut meats. 
Cool, and cut in squares. 

Mrs. Frank Mulvey. 

Turkish Paste. — Let 2 level tablespoons of granulated 
gelatine stand, in V2 cup of cold water, until it has 
absorbed the water. Heat 14 cup of Karo syrup, 1% 
cups of granulated sugar, and I/2 cup of water to the 
boiling point ; then add the softened gelatine and let 



CANDIES 261 

boil twenty minutes counting the time after boiling 
actually begins. Add to the boiling syrup the juice of 
1 lemon, juice of 1 orange and the grated rind of 1 
orange, five minutes before it is done. Finish boiling 
and pour into an ungreased pan. Let stand until next 
day and cut with scissors. 

Louise Velde. 

Vinegar Candy. — Boil together until it hardens, 
when dropped into cold water, 2 cups of sugar, y^ cup 
of water, y^ cup of vinegar, butter size of a walnut. 
Pour on to buttered plates, and when sufficiently cool, 
pull until very white, and cut into 2-inch pieces. 

Viola Lackman. 

White Fudge. — 1 large cup milk, 1 large cup sugar. 
Mix these ingredients until the sugar is dissolved. 
Heat the mixture until it boils, and then add butter the 
size of an egg and 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract. Stir 
constantly, and let boil until it forms a soft ball in 
water. Remove from fire, and add nuts or cocoanut to 
suit the taste, and beat thoroughly. Pour into buttered 
tins, and cut into squares when cool. 

SlEVERDENA HaRMEL. 

White Fondant. — 2i^ cups granulated sugar, % cup 
hot water, % teaspoon cream of tartar. Mix sugar 
and cream of tartar. Dissolve in water; boil slowly, 
without stirring, until it forms a soft ball when dropped 
in cold water and rolled betAveen thumb and forefinger. 
The crystals which form on the sides of the pan should 
be washed down occasionally with a cloth wrapped 
around a fork, and dipped in cold water. Pour care- 
fully on to a buttered platter or marble slab. When it 
can be touched without its sticking to the fingers, 
begin to work it back and forth, and beat until it 
lumps; then knead with the hands till creamy and 
smooth. Cover with oiled paper or a damp cloth, and 
let stand several days before using. 

Olive A. Balcke. 



1/4 
V2 

2 

2 
1 

1/3 

2 
4 

2 

4 



MISCELLANEOUS— TABLE OF 
WEIGHTS AND MEASUREMENTS 

3 Teaspoons equal 

16 Tablespoons 

Tablespoon 

Cup 

Cup 

Cups 

Tablespoons Liquid 

Square Baker's Chocolate. . 

Cup Chopped Nuts 

Tablespoons Butter 

Tablespoons Flour 

Cups Butter, packed solidly 

Cups Flour 

2 Cups Granulated Sugar . . . 
2 Cups Finely-Chopped Meat. 

41/3 Cups Cofe'ee 

9 Large, or 10 Small Eggs . . 

ON SERVING 
General ease, convenience, and grace should govern 
every act in serving. 

Table : Linen should be spotless. Use pad or silence 
cloth. Lay cloth perfectly straight and smooth. 

Laying Cover: Plate in center. Knives at right 
with edges toward plate. Spoon at right of knife, in 
order of use. Forks at left of plate, with tines up. 
Napkin at left of fork. Water glasses at back and 
right of plate. Bread and butter plates at back and left 
of plate. 

Service : Pass at right ; serve at left. Remove from 
right, when convenient. Remove dishes containing 
food first. Remove soiled dishes. Remove clean dishes. 
Remove crumbs from cloth. Keep water glasses filled. 
Watch everything carefully, and see that wants of each 
guest are anticipated. 



Lials 1 Tablespoon. 


1 Cup. 


'' Size of Walnut. 


*' 1 Wine Glass. 


" 1 Gill. 


*' 1 Pint. 


1 Ounce. 


1 Ounce. 


'' 1 Ounce. 


" 1 Ounce. 


" 1 Ounce. 


" 1 Pound. 


'♦ 1 Pound. 


" 1 Pound. 


" 1 Pound. 


*' 1 Pound. 


" 1 Pound. 



263 



264 MISCELLANEOUS 

jLotion for Chapped Hands. — Steep twenty cents 
worth of quince seed in 1 quart of Avater, add 8 ounces 
of Bay Rum and 1 ounce of Glycerine, juice of 2 lemons. 

Lena Jansen. 

Soap. — 4 pounds soap grease, 1 can Lewis Lye, 2Vo 
pints water; dissolve lye in water, let the lye cool 
and have the grease luke warm; then add the lye to 
the luke warm grease and stir until like honey. Add 
2 tablespoons of Borax Powder. Let cool and cut 
in bars. 

Louise Velde. 

Rheumatic Liniment. — 2 tablespoonfuls turpentine, 
% cup strong vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls spirits of 
camphor, 2 tablespoonfuls rain water, yolks of 2 eggs. 
Shake well before using. 

Mrs. Maurer. 

If your eyes are inflamed from exposure to the sun, 
bathe them for 5 minutes in water as hot as is com- 
fortable. 

Cough Syrup. — ^1 cup rock candy, 5 cents horehound, 
2 tablespoons flaxseed, juice of 3 lemons. Boil flaxseed 
in a pint of water about 15 minutes, strain, add candy 
and lemon juice ; boil up and bottle. 

Cold Starch Recipe. — 4 tablespoonfuls of powdered 
starch, 2 tablespoonfuls of turpentine, 1 tablespoonful 
of powdered borax, 3 pints rain water. Keep in a cool 
place, in a stone or earthen vessel. Stir well before 
using. 

Mrs. Maurer. 

Baking Powder. — 1 part soda, 2 parts cream of 
tartar, 1 part cornstarch. Mix, and sift 5 or 6 times. 

In making preserves or catsup, drop medium-sized 
glass marbles in the kettle. The boiling will keep the 
marbles moving, and saves stirring so often to keep 
from scorching. 

Mrs. Josephine Junker. 

When using gasoline for cleaning spots from cloth- 
ing, if a little salt is added, no circle Avill remain. 

Mrs. W. F. Williams. 



MISCELLANEOUS 265 

If milk happens to boil over on stove, sprinkle at 
once with salt to prevent the disagreeable odor of 
burned milk. 

To burn sugar makes a good disinfectant. 

Alcohol will remove the stickiness from anything 
which has come in contact with fly paper. 

Sugar for the Fire. — The next time your fire has 
almost gone out, try throwing a little granulated sugar 
on it, which will have the same effect as kerosene, but 
is not at all dangerous. 

Hard Butter Smoothly Cut. — If you want to cut 
hard butter into squares, and find you can not do 
it without crumming, fold a piece of waxed paper in 
Avliich the butter was wrapped around the blade of the 
knife. You can then make a perfectly smooth cut. 

Parsley and lettuce may be kept fresh and green for 
several days if it is put in a covered earthen jar in 
a cool place. It will last longer than in water. 

In the matter of routing red ants, this is a good rule : 
Mix 5 cents ' worth of tartar emetic with as much sugar, 
and put the preparation, in small saucers upon the 
shelves infested by them. 

How to Pick a Duck. — Remove the longest and 
heaviest feathers, as usual, cutting off the head and 
Avings; melt a cake of paraffine in a pan, and dip the 
duck in it. Let the bird remain until the paraffine 
hardens; then, with a dull knife, scrape it clean. 



INDEX 



Almonds, Burnt 248 

Almonds, Blanched 248 

Almond Cake . . . ; 144 

Almond Cake Filling 141 

Almond Cookies 135 

Almond Cookies 136 

Almonds, Salted 248 

Almond Wafers 136 

American Chop Suey 40 

Angel Bread 172 

Angel Cake 145 

Angel Fig Cake 146 

Angel Fruit or Nut Cake. .146 

Angel Food 145 

Angel Food Cake (Mock). 147 

Anise Drop Cookies 136 

Apple and Lemon Pudding. 172 

Apple Butter Baked 221 

Apple Cake (Apfel Ku- 

chen) 97 

Apple Charlotte 172 

Apple Custard Pie 209 

Apple Dumplings 172 

Apfel Kuchen 97 

Apple Pudding 174 

Apple Salad 64 

Apple Sauce Cake 147 

Apple Sauce Cake 147 

Apple Snow 173 

Apple Tapioca 173 

Apricot Ice Cream 198 

Apricot and Pineapple 

Marmalade 174 

Apricot Jam 221 

Apricot Sauce 174 

Apricot Souffle 173 

Asparagus 75 

Asparagus Soup 10 

Au Gratin Potatoes 54 



Baked Bacon and Cabbage. 55 
Baked Beans 76 



Bilked Beans with Tomato 

Sauce 76 

Baked Bean Soup 10 

Baked Black Bass 21 

Baked Bread Tomatoes. ... 54 
Baked Cauliflower with 

Cheese Sauce 55 

Baked Eggs 91 

Baked Eggs with thin 

Cream 91 

Baked Hash 41 

Baked Meat Dumplings... 17 

Baked Oysters • 23 

Baking Powder 264 

Baking Powder Biscuits. . .110 
Baking Powder Biscuits. . .110 

Banana Whip 174 

Basler Gabaeke 136 

Bavarian Cream 174 

Beans to Can 231 

Beans, Pickled 231 

Bean Salad 64 

Beans with Spare Eibs. ... 76 

Beef Loaf 40 

Beef Eoast 40 

Beef Roast 40 

Beef Eolled 40 

Beets 76 

Beet Eelish 37 

Best Ever Salad 64 

Biscuits 110 

Biscuits (Drop) ". . . 110 

Bisque Glace 198 

Blackberry Jam Cake 167 

Black Pudding 174 

Blatter Kuchen 126 

Blitz Cake 167 

Blitz Kuchen 147 

Blitz Kuchen 148 

Boiled Frosting 141 

Boiled Icing 141 

Bon Bons 248 

Boston Pie 209 

BouUion 9 



267 



268 



INDEX 



Bran Bread 98 

Bread 96 

Bread, Brown 99 

Bread, Brown- 99 

Bread, Brown 99 

Bread Cake 100 

Bread (Fleischman's Nut). 99 

Bread, Graham 100 

Bread, Graham Nut 100 

Bread, Graham Nut 100 

Bread Pudding 175 

Bread Pudding 175 

Bread Torte 168 

Brownies 126 

Brown Cake 149 

Buckwheat Cakes Ill 

Burnt Sugar Cake 148 

Burnt Caramel Cake 148 

Butter Scotch 248 

Butter Scotch Pie 209 

C 

Cabbage and Green Pepper 

Salad 64 

Cabbage Head, Stuffed 76 

Cabbage, Hot Slaw 77 

Cabbage Salad Dressing. . . 62 
Cabbage Slaw, Cooked.... 77 

Cake Filling 142 

Candy 249 

Candy, Opera Creams 249 

Candied Oranges 249 

Canned Beef, Pork or 

Chicken 39 

Cantaloupe Preserves 221 

Caramels 250 

Caramel Frosting 141 

Caramel Frosting 142 

Caramel Pie 209 

Carrots 77 

Carrots and Peas 77 

Carrot Pudding 175 

Carrot Salad 64 

Cauliflower Au Gratin 55 

Celery Eelish . . . ^ 231 

Celery Soup 10 

Charlotte Busse 176 

Cheese Canapes .... * 88 

Cheese Croquettes 88 

Cheese Salad 65 



Cheese, Scalloped 55 

Cheese Souffle 56 

Cheese Straws 205 

Cheese on Toast 88 

Cheese Wafers 88 

Cherry Custard Pie 210 

Cherry Pudding . . . : 175 

Cherry Pudding 175 

Chicken 32 

Chicken a la King 31 

Chicken Cheese 31 

Chicken, Creamed 33 

Chicken Croquettes 31 

Chicken Croquettes 41 

Chicken Pie 32 

Chicken Pot Pie 32 

Chicken Salad 65 

Chicken Sandwiches 119 

Chicken Soup 11 

Chicken Noodle Soup 11 

Chicken Stewed with Brown 

Gravy 33 

Chili Sauce 231 

Chili Sauce 232 

Chutney Sauce 233 

Chocolate 245 

Chocolate Bars 126 

Chocolate Cake 149 

Chocolate Cake 149 

Chocolate Cake 150 

Chocolate Loaf Cake 149 

Chocolate Caramels 250 

Chocolate Cookies 127 

Chocolate Cookies 136 

Chocolate Creams 250 

Chocolate Filling 142 

Chocolate Filling 142 

Chocolate Frosting 142 

Chocolate leiug 142 

Chocolate Marshniallow 

Fudge 251 

Chocolate Muffins Ill 

Chocolate Pie 210 

Chocolate Pudding 176 

Chocolate Sauce for Ice 

Cream 198 

Chocolate Sauce for Ice 

Cream 198 

Chocolate Soup 11 

Chocolate Torte 168 



INDEX 



269 



Chocolate Wafers 127 

Chocolate Wafers 136 

Choice Caramels 249 

Chow-Chow 232 

Chow-Chow Sweet Pickles. 233 

Chop Pickles 234 

Christmas Cookies 137 

Christmas Eaisin Bread... 102 

Chutney Sauce 233 

Cinnamon Cookies 126 

Cinnamon Eolls 20-5 

Cinnamon Stars 137 

Cinnamon Toast 91 

Cocoa Cake 150 

Cocoa Fudge 251 

Cocoanut Caramels 251 

Cocoanut Cream Cookies.. 127 

Cocoanut Drop Cakes 127 

Cocoanut Pie 210 

Cocoanut Pudding 177 

Cocoanut Salad 65 

Codfish Balls 21 

Coffee 245 

Coffee Cake 100 

Coffee Cake 151 

Cpffee Cake (Eaisin) 101 

Coffee Cake Filling 102 

Cold Catsup 233 

Cold Starch Eecipe 264 

Combination Pie 210 

Combination Salad 65 

Cookies 128 

Corn Bread Ill 

Corn, Dried 234 

Corn to Salt Down 234 

Corn Fritters 78 

Corn Ovsters 77 

Corn Souffle 78 

Cornflake Cookies 128 

Cornmeal Cakes Ill 

Cornstarch Pudding 176 

Cornstarch Pudding with 

Custard 177 

Cottage Cheese Pie 210 

Cottage Cheese Salad 66 

Cottage Pudding 177 

Cough Svrup 264 

Crabapple Jelly 221 

Crabapple Preserves 222 

Crabapple, Spiced 222 



Cranberry Jelly 37 

Cranberry and Apple Jelly. 222 

Cranberries, Baked 37 

Cranberry Drop Dumplings. 178 

Cranberry Fluff 178 

Cranberry Ice 198 

Cranberry Sherbet 199 

Cream Almond Cake 178 

Cream Cake 151 

Cream Candy 251 

Cream Cheese Sandwiches. 119 

Cream of Celery Soup 10 

Cream of Corn Soup 12 

Cream Soup 11 

Cream Dressing for Cold 

Slaw 62 

Creamed Dried Beef 41 

Creamed Eggs 91 

Creamed Omelet with Green 

Peas ■. . . . 

Creamed Onions 78 

Creamed Oysters 23 

Creamed Potatoes 78 

Cream Pie 210 

Cream Puffs 205 

Cream Sauce 170 

Creamed Shrimp 27 

Creamed Spaghetti 78 

Cream Sponge Cake 150 

Crullers 112 

Cucumber Pickles 235 

Cucumber Eelish 235 

Cucumber Salad 66 

Currant Loaf 102 

Currant Soy or Spiced Cur- 
rants 235 

Custard, Baked 179 

Custard, Boiled 179 

Custard Sauce 193 

D 

Danity Dessert 179 

DanitV Soup Dumplings. . . 17 

Date Bars 129 

Date Cookies 129 

Date Filling for Sand- 
wiches 119 

Date Kisses 133 

Date Loaf 151 

Date Loaf Cake 152 



270 



INDEX 



Date Muffins 112 

Date Pie 211 

Date Pudding 180 

Dates, Stuffed 252 

Date Torte 168 

Delicious Cake 152 

Delicious Preserves 222 

Delmonico Potatoes 56 

Devil Food Cake 152 

Devil 's Food Cake 153 

Deviled Eggs 91 

Dill Pickles 235 

Divine Divinity 252 

Divinitv 252 

Divinity Candy 253 

Divinity Fudge 253 

Doughnuts 112 

Doughnuts, New England. .112 

Dressing for Fowl 33 

Dressing for either Duck or 

Goose 33 

Dressing Baked Separate.. 33 
Dressing for Green String 

Beans 78 

Dream Cakes 88 

Dried Apple Cake 147 

Dried Beef with Eggs 41 

Drop Cookies 129 

Dutch Cookies 129 

Duchess Cream 180 

Dumplings 17 

£ 

Egg Salad 66 

Egg Timbales 92 

English Bath Buns 102 

English Plum Pudding 180 

Escalloped Corn 57 

Escalloped Corn and Pota- 
toes 57 

Escalloped Ham and Pota- 
toes 57 

Escalloped Mushrooms and 

Peanuts 58 

Escalloped Potatoes with 

Pork Chops 57 

Escalloped Oysters 24 

Extract of Beef 9 



F 

Farnia Soup 12 

Feather Cake 156 

Fig Creams 253 

Fig Filling 143 

Fig Pudding 180 

Figs with Cream 181 

Filled Cookies 129 

Filling for Layer Cake .... 142 
Finnan Haddie Delmonico. 22 

Fish Chops 22 

Fish, Planked 22 

Fish Sauce 37 

Five-Three Ice 199 

Float 181 

Fluffy Ruffle Cake 156 

Flying Leaves 113 

Foundation for Cake 155 

Foundation for Doughnuts 

Frappe 245 

French 'Dressing 62 

French Mustard 38 

French Toast 92 

Fricadella 42 

Fried Cakes 113 

Fried Chicken 32 

Fried Cream 181 

Fried Egg Plant 79 

Fried Ovsters 24 

Fried Celery Sticks 79 

Fried Celery with Tomato 

Sauce .. .' 79 

Fritters 113 

Fritters 113 

Frosted Creams 130 

Froth for Pudding 170 

Frozen Custard 199 

Frozen Pudding 199 

Frozen Plum Pudding 199 

Fruit Cake 153 

Fruit Cake 153 

Fruit Cake 154 

Fruit Cake 154 

Fruit Cake 155 

Fruit Cake bv Measure. .. 155 

Fruit Cake (White) 155 

Fruit or Xut Cake 154 

Fruit Cookies 129 

Fruit Cookies 130 

Fruit Dessert 182 



INDEX 



271 



Fruit Filling 143 

Fruit Ice 200 

Fruit Punch 24,'i 

Fruit Roll 255 

Fruit Roll 255 

Fruit Salad 181 

Fruit Salad 181 

Fruit Salad 182 

Fruit Salad Dressing 62 

Fruit Sandwiches 119 

Fudges or Chocolate Candy. 253 
Fulton Market Clana Chow- 
der 21 

G 

Gems 114 

Gems, Graham 114 

Gems, Bran 114 

General Direction for Jelly .220 
German Bread Dumplings. 17 
German Christmas Cookies. 137 
German Dumplings for 

Beef Soup 17 

German Potatoes 79 

German Potato Salad 67 

Gebaekene S. with 

Almonds 138 

Ginger Bread 123 

Ginger Bread 123 

Ginger Cookies 130 

Ginger Cookies 130 

Ginger Creams 131 

Gold Cake 156 

Golden Rod Eggs 92 

Gooseberry Goodie 225 

Governor's Salad 67 

Graham Cracker Cake 156 

Graham Griddle Cakes.... 114 

Grape Catsup 241 

Grape Conserve 223 

Grape Jam 223 

Grape Jelly 223 

Grape Jelly, Spiced 223 

Grape Juice 246 

Grape Pie 211 

Grape Preserve 225 

Green Chunk Pickle 235 

Green Peppers Filled with 

Meat 42 

, Green Pepper Hash 42 

Green Tomato Pickle 236 



H 

Ham Au Gratin 58 

Ham, Baked 42 

Ham, Baked in Crust 43 

Ham, Baked in Milk 43 

Ham and Eggs 43 

Ham, Luncheon Dish 43 

Ham Patties 43 

Ham Pudding 44 

Ham Omelet 92 

Ham Sandwich Filling. ... 121 
Ham, Spiced and Boiled. . . 44 
Ham, Virginia Boiled .... 44 

Hamburg Cream 200 

Hamburger Steak 44 

Hard Cookies 132 

Hard Sauce 170 

Hashed Browned Potatoes. 79 

Head Cheese 44 

Heavenly Food 182 

Heavenly Fudge 255 

Hermits 131 

Herring Balls 23 

Herring Salad 67 

Hickory Nut Cake 157 

Hints for Cookie Cutting. .126 

Honey Cookies 131 

Hot Horseradish Sauce. ... 38 
Housekeeper's Fruit Cake. 154 

I 

Icing 143 

Ice Cream Candy 255 

Ice Water Sponge Cake ... 160 

Italian Salad 68 

Italian Spaghetti 80 

Italian Stew 80 

J 

January Thaw 256 

Jamboli 45 

John's Delight 182 

Junket Ice Cream 200 

K 

Karo Fudge 256 

Kuehen Lopf 103 



272 



INDEX 



L 

Leather Cake 157 

Lebkuchen 138 

Lebkuchen 138 

Lemon Cookies 132 

Lemon Cream Filling 143 

Lemon Cheese 143 

Lemon Ice 290 

Lemon Pie 213 

Lemon Pie 213 

Lemon Pudding 182 

Lemon Sherbet 200 

Lemon Tapioea 183 

Lemon Toast 92 

Lemonade 246 

Leona Leotia Pudding 182 

Lettuce Sandwiches 119 

Light Bread Cake 103 

Lima Beans and Spaghetti. 58 

Lily Salad 68 

Lilies 183 

Liver Dumplings 18 

Liver, Fried 45 

Loaf Cake 157 

Lotion for Chapped Hands . 264 
Louise Pudding 183 

M 

Macaroons 132 

Macaroons, Almonds 133 

Macaroons, Chocolate ....133 
Macaroons, Cocoanut .... .133 

Macaroons, Dainty 184 

Macaroni 58 

Macaroni and Cheese 59 

Madison Rolls 103 

Mandel Torte 168 

Mangoes 236 

Manhattan Salad 68 

Maple Fudge 256 

Maple Cream Filling 144 

Maple Mousse 200 

Maple Mousse 201 

Marble Cake 158 

Marshmallow 256 

Marshmallow Confection .201 
Marshmallow Dessert ....185 

Marshmallow Loaf 184 

Marshmallow Pudding . . . 185 
Marshmallow Pudding ...185 



Marshmallow Pudding . . . 185 

Marshmallow Paste 144 

Marshmallows, Toasted . . . 184 

Marguerites 132 

Marrow Ball for Soup 18 

Marthas 132 

May Day Cake 157 

Mayonnaise Dressing 63 

Meat Balls 45 

Meat Cakes 45 

Meat Croquettes 45 

Meat Loaf 40 

Meat Salad 68 

Meat Souffle 46 

Mint Sauce 243 

Mexican Chili 12 

Milk Frosting 144 

Mince Meat 214 

Mince Meat 214 

Mints 257 

Mint Sauce 38 

Mixed Layer Cake 157 

Mixed Pickles 236 

Mock Cherry Pie 213 

Molasses Cookies 131 

Molasses Cookies ........ 139 

Molasses Fudge 257 

Mocha Cake, Walnut 158 

Mock Duck 46 

Mock Mince Meat 214 

Mock Mince Pie 214 

Muffins 114 

Mountain Pound ».Cake. . . . 158 
Mustard Pickles 237 

N 

Navy Bean Soup 12 

Nest Eggs 93 

New England Cookies 134 

New Year's Cookies 139 

Noodles 18 

Normandy Salad 69 

Nougat '. 257 

Nut Salad 69 

Nut Bread 104 

Nut Bread 104 

Nut Bread 104 

Nut Bread 104 

Nut Cookies 133 

Nut Cookies 133 



INDEX 



273 



Nut Macaroons 133 

Nut Cake 158 

Nut and Eaisin Cake 159 

Nut Mince Pie 215 

Nut Pie 186 

Nut Fudge 258 

Nut Candy 258 

O 

Oak Hill Potatoes 59 

Oat Meal Cookies 134 

Oat Meal Cookies 134 

Oat Meal Cookies 134 

Oat Meal Bread 105 

Oat Meal Bread 105 

Oat Meal Wafers 134 

Omelet 93 

One Egg or Quick Cake. . .159 

Onion Soup 12 

Orange Cake ^ 159 

Orange Cake 160 

Orange Candy 258 

Orange Charlotte 186 

Orange Ice 201 

Orange Marmalade 225 

Orange Pie 215 

Orange Pudding 186 

Orange Pudding 186 

Orange Sticks 258 

Orange Sauce 170 

Oyster Chowder 23 

Oyster Dressing 31 

Ovster Fritters 24 

OVster Omelet 25 

Oyster Soup 12 

Pancakes 115 

Pancakes, Eggless 115 

Pancakes, Potato 115 

Pancakes, Pumpkin 115 

Parf ait 201 

Parker House Polls 105 

Parsnips, Fried 82 

Parsnip Fritters 82 

Pea Salad 69 

Pea Soup with Dumplings. 13 

Peach Cobbler 187 

Peach Honey 225 

Peaches, Canned ...'..... .225 

Peach Melba 187 

Peaches, Pickled 237 



Peach Sherbet 202 

Peach Souffle 187 

Peaches or Pears, Branded. 237 

Peaches, Spiced 238 

Peaches or Plums, Sweet 

Pickled 238 

Peach Tarts 206 

Peanut Brittle 258 

Peanut Candy 258 

Peanut Cookies 135 

Pear Butter 226 

Pear Honey 226 

Pear Preserves, East India.226 

Pear Preserves 226 

Pear and Quince Honev . . 226 

Pecan Cake 160 

Penoche Candy 259 

Peppermint Candy 259 

Pepper Hash 237 

Pepper Nuts 139 

Pepper Slaw 237 

Perfection Salad 69 

Pie Crust 206 

Pie Shell 206 

Pickles 239 

Piccalilli 240 

Pickles in Olive Oil 239 

Pickled Onions 240 

Pickled Pears 240 

Pickled Rabbits 34 

Pickles, Sweet or Sour'. . . . 240 

Pigs in Blankets 25 

Pimento Salad 69 

Pineapple, Bavarian Cream.188 

Pineapple Cream Ice 202 

Pineapple Cream Sherbet. 202 

Pineapple Honey 226 

Pineapple Pie 215 

Pineapple Sherbet 202 

Pineapple Snow 187 

Pineapple Sponge 188 

Pineapple Tapioca 190 

Pink and White Layer 

Cake 160 

Plain Cake 160 

Plain Omelet 93 

Plum Pudding, Eggless . . . 190 

Plum Pudding 194 

Poached Eggs 93 



274 



INDEX 



Pocket Book Soup 13 

Poinsetta Salad 70 

Popcorn Balls 259 

Pop-Overs 115 

Pork Cake 161 

Pork Loaf 47 

Potatoes Baked in Half 

Shell 81 

Potatoes, Boxes of Plenty. 80 

Potatoes, Browned 80 

Potato Cake 161 

Potato Caramel Cake 161 

Potato Croquettes 80 

Potato Dressing 34 

Potato Dumplings 18 

Potatoes, French Fried. ... 81 

Potato Fritters 81 

Potatoes Mashed, Creamed 

and Browned 86 

Potato Puffs 81 

Potatoes, Served NeV Way . 81 

Potato Soup 14 

Potatoes Stuffed 82 

Pressed Chicken 32 

Prune Cake 161 

Prune Kuchen 106 

Prune Parfait 201 

Prune Pie 217 

Prune SouMe 190 

Prunes, Sweet Pickle 240 

Prune Whip 190 

Puff Paste 206 

Pumpkin Pie 217 

Punch 246 

Q 

Queen Pudding 191 

Quick Cake 161 

Quick Puff Pudding 191 

Quince Honey 227 

Quince Preserves 227 

Quizzel Cake 162 

B 

Eabbit, Baked 34 

Eaisin Pie 217 

Eaisin Pie 218 

Eaisin Puff Pudding 191 

Eaisin Cake 162 



Easpberry, Blackberry, 
Strawberry, Canned ,,..227 

Eheumatic Liniment 264 

Ehubarb. Conserve 228 

Ehubarb Preserve 227 

Ehubarb Pie 218 

Rice 82 

Eice Croquettes 82 

Eice Croquettes (Sweet) . . 82 

Eice Cream 191 

Eice Dessert 192 

Eice Dainty 191 

Eice Pudding 187 

Rice Pudding 192 

Rice Tomato Soup 14 

Eoast Wild Duck 34 

Eoast with Dumplings.... 47 

Eoeks 135 

Eocks 135 

Eolls, JqJIv Cake 152 

Eound Steak Eolled 47 

Russian Taffy 259 

Eutabagas 83 

Rye Bread 106 

S 

Salad 62 

Salad Dressing 63 

Salmon, Creamed 25 

Salmon Croquettes 26 

Salmon, Escalloped 26 

Salmon Loaf 26 

Salmon Mold 26 

Salmon Salad 70 

Salmon with Scrambled 

Eggs 27 

Salmon on Toast 27 

Sand Tarts 139 

Sandwich Fillings 120 

Sauce for Plum Pudding.. 170 

Schnitz Brot 107 

Shrimp Salad 70 

Shrimp Wiggle 27 

Schwamkloszen 19 

Scrambled Eggs 94 

Scrapple 47 

Sea Foam 260 

Sea Foam Candy 259 

Sea Foam Fudge 261 

Sherbet 202 



INDEX 



275 



Short Cake 115 

Short Cake, Banana 116 

Short Cake, Orange 116 

Short Cake, Strawberry ..116 

Smothered Steak 47 

Snipe 35 

Snow Ball 163 

Snow Ball Custard 192 

Snow Eggs 93 

Snow Pudding 192 

Soap 264 

Soft Ginger Bread 123 

Sour-Braten for 8 Persons. 53 

Sour Pot Boast 53 

Spaghetti Au Gratin. 59 

Spaghetti with Tomato 

Sauce 83 

Spanish Creme 195 

Spanish Jello Salad 71 

Spanish Eoast 48 

Spanish Sauce 241 

Spanish Steak 48 

Spare Ribs with Dressing. . 47 

Spice Cake 162 

Spiced Cherries 241 

Spiced Fruit Cake 163 

Spiced Sour Eabbit 35 

Sponge Cake 165 

Springerlies 139 

Squash Pie 218 

Steamed Dumplings 19 

Steamed Pudding 194 

Stock 9 

Stollen Kloben 107 

Strawberry Currant Jam.. 228 

Strawberry Float 194 

Strawberry Jam Cake 163 

Strawberry Pie 218 

Strawberry Pineapple Pre- 
serves 228 

Strawberry Preserves . . . .228 
Strawberry Sun Preserves. 228 

Strawberrv Surprise 202 

Strawberrv Whip 193 

Stuffed Dktes 252 

Stuffed Peppers 83 

Stuffed Steak 48 

Stuffed Tomatoes 84 

Sugar Cure for Meat 39 

Sugared Popcorn 259 



Sun Cherry Preserves 228 

Sunshine Cake 164 

Surprise Cake 164 

Surprise Salad 72 

Sweet Breads 48 

Sweet Chopped Pickles 241 

Sweet Potatoes Au Gratin. 59 

Sweet Potato Balls 84 

Sweet Potatoes in Blankets 84 
Sweet Potatoes, Candied... 85 
Sweet Potato Croquettes... 85 

Sweet Potato Puffs 85 

Sweet Potatoes Sout hern 

Stvle 85 

Sweet Salad 72 

Swiss Eggs 60 

Swiss Steak 49 

T 

Table Syrup 116 

Tart Shells 207 

Tapioca Pudding 195 

Tea 246 

Tender Meringue 218 

Tenderloin, Frenched 49 

Tenderloin, Stuffed 49 

Three P Salad 72 

Thousand Island Dressing. 63 

To serve Noodles 18 

Tomato Catsup 242 

Tomato Catsup 242 

Tomatoes, Fried 86 

Tomato Jelly 71 

Tomato Sauce 242 

Tomato Salad 72 

Tomato Eelish ; 242 

Tomato-Peach Preserve . . .229 

Tomato Soup 1* 

Tongue Boiled with Toma- 
toes 50 

Tongue Salad 72 

Tuna Fish Filling 73 

Tutti Fruitti Cream 202 

Tutti Fruitti 243 

Turkish Paste 260 



Uncooked Tomato Eelish.. 243 
Uncooked Cocoa Frosting. 144 



276 



INDEX 



V 

Vanilla Cake 165 

Vanilla Ice Cream 202 

Veal Birds 50 

Veal Breast with Dressing 50 

Veal Chops Braized 51 

Veal Cooked in Milk 51 

Veal Cutlets 51 

Veal Ham Smothered 51 

Veal Jelly 52 

Veal Kidney Stew .. . 52 

Veal Loaf 52 

Veal and Pork Jellied..!! 52 

Veal Roast 39 

Veal Stutfed ! ! 52 

Veal Tongues 53 

Vegetable Soup 15 

Vegetable Soup with Noo- 

<31es 15 

Velvet Cream I95 

Velvet Sponge Cake 165 

Vinegar Candy 261 

Vinegar Pie 218 

W 

Waffles 116 

Waldorf Salad ...!!!!! ! ! ! 73 
Walnut Cake 165 



Walnut Mocha Cake 167 

Walnut Wafers 135 

Washington Pie 196 

Watermelon Cake 165 

Watermelon Pickle 243 

Welsh Rarebit 89 

Wheat Cakes 117 

Whipped Cream Salad 73 

White Bread 93 

White Cake 166 

White Cherry Salad 73 

White Fish, Broiled 27 

White Fondant 261 

White Fudge 261 

White Ginger Bread 123 

White Sauce 91 

White Stock ! ! 9 

Wild Duck Stew 35 

Wine Soup 15 

Winter Biscuit 108 

Winter Vegetable Soup . . 15 

Y 

Yellow Cake 166 

Yorkshire Pudding 196 

Z 

Zwieback (German Rusk). 108 



