

w 18k *: * w'k l ; k w 




Class T* 1 & 

Book J3&S5T 

Copyright If . 



CORffilGHT DEPOSIT 



THE 
PLAIN SAILING COOK BOOK 



The 

Plain Sailing Cook Book 

A COLLECTION OF SIMPLE RECIPES 
FOR BEGINNERS IN COOKERY 



BY 

SUSANNA SHANKLIN BROWNE 

GRADUATE OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE DEPARTMENT, PRATT INSTITUTE ; FORMERLY TEACHER 

OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE, CHICAGO AND STAUNTON (VA.) PUBLIC SCHOOLS, 

AND LAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY, LAKE FOREST, ILLINOIS 



NEW YORK 

CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS 

1922 



^t 



t 



^ 






Copyright, 1922, by 
CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS 



Printed in the United States of America 



Published October, 1922 




NOV 18 '22 

CU68C042. 



PREFACE 

One should be prepared with an uncommonly good 
excuse for adding still another cook book to the legion 
already in existence. My own excuse will, I hope, be 
considered sufficient. So far as I am aware, no cook 
book of all the multitude now in use is successfully 
adapted to the needs of the person who has never before 
attempted to cook. It is not merely that most of the 
standard cook books take for granted more or less actual 
experience over the kitchen table and range; even those 
whose special appeal is to the novice and beginner usually 
fail in their purpose because the persons who write them, 
however versed in the lore of cookery, have little or in- 
sufficient skill in simple, concise, unequivocal expression. 
Knowing how and telling how are two very different things; 
and the common notion that any one who knows how is 
therefore and thereby fully qualified to tell how has led 
to endless confusion in cookery as in many other subjects. 

What I have tried to do in this book is to tell how in 
such a way as to leave no possible room for doubt or 
misunderstanding on any point. In preparing and ar- 
ranging each recipe, I have tried to keep continually in 
mind the person who has never before cooked anything, 
and who is as entirely dependent upon not only what I 
tell, but how I tell it, as one would be in attempting 
to concoct a chemical formula upon one's first visit to a 
laboratory. 

At the beginning of each recipe there is a list of the 
kinds and amounts of the various materials required for 

[v] 



that recipe, and a list of the utensils that will be needed 
for the preparation, mixing, and cooking of those ma- 
terials. Each stage of the ensuing process is then sepa- 
rately described as simply and plainly and fully as my 
use of words will permit. I have tried to leave nothing 
to the imagination, nothing to be guessed at, nothing to 
be decided from previous experience. In a word, I have 
tried to do as I would be done by, if I were the user of the 
book instead of the author. 

A glance through these pages will show that they are 
confined to the simpler every-day dishes that make up 
the staple menu of the average American family. In 
cookery, as in other things, one should begin at the be- 
ginning and serve one's apprenticeship before passing on 
to the more complex mysteries of the craft. Any one who 
has mastered the recipes here given will then, and not 
until then, be competent to attempt the numberless more 
elaborate dishes described in the almost numberless more 
elaborate cook books. My little volume is for the tyro, 
the beginner, and for no other. Its aim is to provide 
"plain sailing' ' for the wholly inexperienced mariner in 
culinary waters. 

It only remains to add in this place that, as the be- 
ginner in cookery is usually the feminine half of a recently 
arranged matrimonial partnership, the recipes in this 
book are in nearly all cases designed to serve two persons 
only. If a larger family must be provided for, the amount 
of materials called for in any recipe should, of course, be 
increased in direct proportion to the additional number 
of persons in the family. 

S. S. B. 



[vi] 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 



PREFACE v 

INTRODUCTORY 

EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES 3 

HANDLING THE RECIPE 5 

DIRECTIONS FOR MEASURING 6 

REGULATING THE HEAT 7 

A FEW DEFINITIONS 9 

SOME USEFUL SUGGESTIONS 12 

RECIPES 

soups 14 

FISH 21 

MEATS 34 

POULTRY 51 

VEGETABLES 60 

SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 79 

PASTRY 85 

PUDDINGS 91 

CAKES, COOKIES, ETC 103 

ICE CREAM AND ICES 115 

HOT BEVERAGES 122 

[vii] 



PAGE 

CEREALS 125 

EGGS 130 

HOT BREADS AND GRIDDLE-CAKES 134 

FRUITS 144 

WHITE SAUCES 150 

INDEX 153 



[ viii ] 



THE 
PLAIN SAILING COOK BOOK 



s^a^s^s^S^^^S 



I^CT7^p c D UCTOtRY 



w 



^^^£^5^*2^^^2^^^^23K±^fc^^£*^*^J3g^*^^|^g 



EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES 

The first and foremost essential in cookery is a con- 
veniently arranged and well equipped kitchen, stocked 
with the necessary staple supplies. Under the heading 
of equipment, the most important items are of course a 
cooking-stove (presumably a gas-range, with an upper and 
a lower oven), a sink, a good-sized table with enamelled 
or oilcloth top, and an ice-box. Only a little less im- 
portant than these, in view of its many advantages and 
conveniences, is a modern kitchen-cabinet. The kitchen 
should be provided with liberal shelf and cupboard space, 
and brass hooks to accommodate "hangable" articles 
should be screwed into the walls and casings at convenient 
points. 

In the selection of minor equipment and supplies, an 
almost unlimited choice is available. But the following 
lists contain practically everything that may be consid- 
ered essential for the purposes of the average housewife. 
These lists will serve as a convenient purchase guide for 
those who are furnishing and stocking a kitchen for the 
first time; and they will also be useful as check-lists in 
making occasional inventories of equipment and provi- 
sions on hand. 

[3] 



INTRODUCTORY 



GENERAL KITCHEN NECESSITIES 



Covered garbage-pail 

Waste-paper basket 

Broom 

Dust-pan and brush 

Long-handled mop 

Dish-towel rack 

Roller-towel rack 

6 dish-towels 

2 roller-towels 

2 dish-cloths 

2 large dish-pans 

Dish-mop 

Metal dish-cloth 



Wire dish-drainer 

Soap-shaker 

Sink-strainer 

Soap-dish 

2 asbestos holders 

2 asbestos mats 

Bread-and-cake box 

Scales 

Can-opener 

Corkscrew 

Scissors 

Large salt-shaker 

Large pepper-shaker 



PREPARING AND MIXING UTENSILS 



Bread-board 

Rolling-pin 

Flour-sifter 

2 mixing bowls — large and small 

Measuring-cup 

Set of measuring-spoons 

Wire egg-beater 

Dover egg-beater 

Lemon-squeezer 

Potato-ricer 

Grater 

Strainer 

Colander 

Food-chopper 

Small chopping-bowl and knife 



Doughnut-cutter 

Biscuit-cutter 

Cookie-cutter 

Apple-corer 

2 tablespoons 

2 enamelled mixing-spoons 

Wooden cake-spoon 

2 teaspoons 

Vegetable-knife 

Palette-knife 

Bread-knife 

Grapefruit-knife 

2 forks 

Long-handled meat-fork 



COOKING UTENSILS 



Teakettle 

Coffee percolator 

Double-boiler 

Teapot 

Steel frying-pan with cover 

Enamelled frying-pan 

3 covered saucepans — small, 

medium, and large 
Steamer 
Roast ing-pan 
Broiler 
Iron frying-kettle 



2 covered baking-dishes or cas- 
seroles — small and medium- 
sized 

2 small individual baking-dishe3 
Bread-pan 

Cake-pan with centre tube 

3 layer-cake pans 
Pie-pan 
Muffin-pan 
Griddle 

Perforated spoon 
Omelette-turner 



[4] 



INTRODUCTORY 



STAPLE SUPPLIES 



Flour 


Molasses 




Granulated sugar 


Chocolate 


Pulverized sugar 


Vanilla 


Brown sugar 


Cinnamon 


Tea 


Clove 


Coffee 


Nutmeg 


Cocoa 


Mustard 


Rice 


Paprika 


Tapioca 


Gelatine (granulated) 


Oatmeal 


Raisins 


Corn-meal 


Potatoes 


Dried beans 


Onions 


Salt 


Butter ' 




Pepper 


Eggs 




Baking-powder 


Milk 


To be kept in the 


Soda 


Cream 


ice-box 


Corn-starch 


Lard 




Vinegar 


Olive-oil . 





HANDLING THE RECIPE 

In preparing to cook, start with a clean and clear 
kitchen-table. Then set out the various utensils called 
for in the recipe to be followed, and see that you have 
conveniently at hand all the materials that will be re- 
quired. In turning to the shelves or cupboard for small 
amounts of staple materials — sugar, flour, salt, etc. — place 
the receptacles back immediately where they came from 
after the material needed for the recipe has been taken 
out. Do not confuse and hinder your operations by 
having the work-table strewn with cans and jars and 
dishes that properly belong upon the shelves. Have a 
place for everything, and keep everything in its place. 

With the utensils placed on the table, and the ma- 
terials either set out or ready at hand, glance through the 
recipe and make a mental note of the different processes 
and stages involved. This will enable you to economize 

[5] 



INTRODUCTORY 

your time and movements, and to work intelligently 
toward a final result that is always clearly in view. 

If the recipe to be used requires boiling water, place 
the teakettle over the fire before starting the other 
operations. 

In the intervals between the different stages, if there 
is time, clear up your table and wash such utensils al- 
ready used as will not be required again. Where several 
things are being cooked simultaneously, or nearly so, this 
may not be possible; but it is always desirable in the in- 
terests of cleanliness and economy. 

Do not forget that, with very few exceptions, the 
recipes in this book are planned to serve two persons only. 
If more than two persons must be served, the amounts 
of the various materials and usually the cooking time 
should be increased proportionately beyond the amounts 
and the time stated in the recipes. 

DIRECTIONS FOR MEASURING 

Successful results in cookery are in large part dependent 
upon the exact measurement of materials. Do not at- 
tempt to cook without the aid of a standard measuring- 
cup, clearly marked for the half, third, and quarter cups; 
and a set of standard measuring-spoons, consisting of a 
tablespoon, half -tablespoon, teaspoon, half -teaspoon, and 
quarter-teaspoon. Measure everything in these utensils, 
and in these only. 

Level measurements are called for in all the recipes in 
this book. Every reference to a "cup" of material 
means a level cupful; every reference to a "spoon" means 
a level spoonful. Fill the cup or spoon with the material 
to be measured, then with a palette or other straight-edged 
knife scrape off all the material that is not actually con- 

[6] 



INTRODUCTORY 

tained in the cup or in the bowl of the spoon. These re- 
marks apply of course only to dry materials, as liquids 
are bound to level themselves. 

Butter, to be measured accurately, must be soft enough 
to be pressed down into the cup or spoon; if too hard to 
be managed in this way, it should be heated slightly be- 
fore measuring. In measuring flour for the cake recipes, 
the flour should be sifted directly into the measuring- 
cup; in other words, it should be measured after sifting, 
rather than before. 

Keep the measuring utensils — the measuring-cup, 
measuring-spoons, and palette-knife — always conveniently 
at hand in cooking. They will be required in the case of 
most of the recipes contained in this book, and to econ- 
omize space they are not included in the list of utensils 
given at the head of the various recipes. 

REGULATING THE HEAT 

While electricity is perhaps the ideal cooking medium, 
the majority of households are still dependent upon gas; 
and in the preparation of this book it has been assumed 
that the cooking will be done upon a gas-range. How- 
ever, in nearly all cases the directions given may be suc- 
cessfully followed no matter what fuel or kind of stove is 
used, although the problem of heat-regulation is much 
more easily controlled with gas than with coal or wood. 
Important as this problem is, only a few rather rough 
suggestions for dealing with it satisfactorily can be given 
here. Actual experience is the only trustworthy guide. 

In general, it may be said that the amateur cook comes 
to grief far more often through using too much rather 
than too little heat. Very seldom, if ever, is the full 
heating capacity of an oven or a surface burner required 

[7} 



INTRODUCTORY 

in cooking anything. In preparing to cook, it is some- 
times necessary to secure the maximum temperature in 
the shortest possible time ; and in such a case the burners 
may of course be turned on full. But during the actual 
cooking process, it is seldom indeed that the best results 
will not be achieved with a somewhat reduced heat. 

The terms "slow oven," " moderate oven," and "hot 
oven/' which are used in this and practically all other 
cook-books, do not readily lend themselves to exact 
definition. Roughly speaking, for a "slow oven" the 
burners are turned on only about one-quarter of their 
full capacity; for a "moderate oven," about one-half full; 
and for a "hot oven," about three-quarters full. Again 
roughly speaking, a "slow oven" is one which feels warm 
but not hot to the hand; a "moderate oven" feels hot, 
but still not uncomfortably so even if the hand is held in 
the oven for several seconds; a "hot oven" feels so hot 
that the hand must be immediately withdrawn. The 
most improved gas-ranges now have oven-gauges which 
may be set so as to regulate these three temperatures 
automatically; but in the absence of such a device, the 
above suggestions are about all that can be offered until 
experience shows the way. In nearly all cases the oven 
should be lighted ten or fifteen minutes before it is actu- 
ally needed. 

In boiling liquids over a flame, it is often desirable to 
have the fullest possible flame in order that the boiling- 
point may be quickly reached. As soon as that point is 
reached, however, the flame should be at once reduced to 
the lowest point at which the boiling process will still con- 
tinue. Otherwise, there will be a waste both of the 
liquid in evaporation and of the fuel. It is sometimes 
advisable to slip an asbestos mat between a saucepan or 
frying-pan and the flame, in order to reduce the cooking 
temperature and prevent scorching. 

[8.3 



INTRODUCTORY 

A FEW DEFINITIONS 

The following is by no means intended as a complete 
glossary of cookery terms, but includes only those special 
words or phrases in commonest use the meaning of which 
it is necessary or desirable that the amateur cook should 
understand. 

Baking. The process of cooking by diffused heat in an 
oven. 

Basting. The process of moistening roasting meat of 
any kind, to prevent burning, by dipping up the liquid 
from the roasting-pan with a large spoon and pouring it 
over the surface of the meat from time to time during 
the roasting. 

Beating. The method by which cooking materials, 
either singly or in combination, are put into quick and 
constant motion, being turned over and over, and the 
under part brought continually to the surface. Unlike 
the "stirring" process, in "beating" a large amount of 
air is combined and enclosed with the material that is 
beaten. 

Boiling. The process of cooking food in boiling water. 

Broiling. The process of cooking meats by direct con- 
tact with the fire or with a heated surface, either on top 
of the stove or in the oven. 

Creaming. As applied to butter, and to mixtures in 
which butter is the chief ingredient, this denotes the 
process of rubbing, pressing, and stirring the butter or 
butter mixture with a wooden spoon until it becomes soft 
and thoroughly pliable. In cold weather, the bowl in 
which butter is "creamed" should be warmed before the 
butter is put into it. 

[9] 



INTRODUCTORY 

Cutting and Folding. The process by which beaten 
egg-whites are ordinarily combined with other materials. 
It consists in placing the egg-whites and the other ma- 
terials in a bowl, and then with a large spoon cutting 
slowly down through and through the entire contents of 
the bowl, lifting and turning the spoon at frequent in- 
tervals, and repeating these motions until all the materials 
are combined. This process is necessary in order that 
the air which has been combined and enclosed with the 
egg-whites in beating shall not escape — as it would do if 
the ordinary methods of mixing were followed. 

Dredging. The process of sprinkling flour or other 
powder-like material over anything that is to be or has 
been cooked. 

Frying. The process of cooking by direct immersion 
in some form of fat heated to a very high temperature. 

Lukewarm. Moderately warm; neither decidedly hot 
nor decidedly cold. 

Mincing. The process of cutting or chopping anything 
into small bits. 

Mixing. Any method by which materials are com- 
bined in cookery, whether by "stirring," by "beating," or 
by "cutting and folding." 

Parboil. To boil partially; a method commonly fol- 
lowed with some kinds of meat, either to preserve it un- 
til ready for the final cooking process or to render it 
more tender for cooking in the ordinary way. 

Roasting. Strictly speaking, the process of cooking 
over a clear fire, with some form of metal reflector to con- 
centrate the heat on the material that is being cooked. 
In common usage, however, there is little clear differen- 
tiation between "roasting" and "baking." 

[ 10] 



INTRODUCTORY 

Searing. As a method of closing the pores of meat, and 
thus retaining the juices while cooking, this consists in 
bringing the surface of the meat in direct contact for a 
moment or two with the flame or with some very hot 
metal surface. 

Shredding. The process of pulling or breaking any- 
thing into very small pieces. 

Simmer. A liquid "simmers" when it is kept at the 
stage just before boiling begins — the stage at which 
small bead-like bubbles appear on the bottom of the 
utensil and rise slowly to the surface of the liquid. 

Singe. As commonly used in cookery, to burn off the 
minute "pin-feathers" of a chicken or other fowl before 
cooking, by holding it for a moment directly in a flame 
and turning it constantly so that the entire surface 
comes in contact with the flame. 

Steaming. The process of cooking by steam from boil- 
ing water. This requires a special form of utensil. 

Steep. To soak or bathe for a considerable time in 
water — ordinarily hot, or at least warm, water — con- 
tained in a covered utensil. 

Stewing. The process of cooking food in a small 
amount of hot water kept just below the boiling-point. 
"Stewing" requires a longer time than "boiling," but the 
cooking is more thorough and more of the actual nutri- 
ment is retained. 

Stirring. As a means of blending various materials, or 
of preventing liquids from burning while cooking, this 
consists of circular motions made through the material 
with a spoon, the motions being gradually widened and 
contracted during the process, with the spoon kept in 
continual contact with the bottom of the utensil. 

en] 



INTRODUCTORY 

Threading. When sugar and water has reached a cer- 
tain stage in the boiling process, a few drops poured from 
the end of a spoon will form into a thin hair-like thread. 
This is known as the "threading" stage. 



SOME USEFUL SUGGESTIONS 

Warm food should never be put in the ice-box, but 
should stand outside until it becomes cool. 

Two or three yards of clean white cheese-cloth should 
always be kept in the kitchen. It will be found useful 
for many purposes. 

In using a double-boiler, it is important to see that the 
lower compartment is always kept about half full of 
boiling water. As the water boils away, more should be 
added from time to time. 

Use a small soft brush or a piece of tissue-paper wadded 
up into a soft ball for buttering baking-dishes. If the 
pans are heated slightly just before buttering, the proc- 
ess is made much easier. 

Twenty minutes or so before meal-time, the dishes re- 
quired for serving hot food should be placed on the warm- 
ing-shelf or in the warming-compartment of the stove, so 
that they will be thoroughly warm when the meal is 
ready to serve. 

The tissue-paper wrappings of oranges, grapefruit, etc., 
should always be straightened out and placed on a hook 
in the kitchen, for use in draining fried food, in wiping 
out greasy pans and dishes before washing, and in numerr 
ous other ways. 

A jar or bowl in which to pour all fat and drippings left 
from cooking meat, especially bacon and other forms of 
pork, should be kept conveniently at hand. This fat 

[12] 



INTRODUCTORY 

may be used for frying eggs, potatoes, etc., and may also 
be used instead of butter in making muffins and in greas- 
ing muffin-pans. 

Bits of stale bread and crackers should always be saved, 
and from time to time rolled out on a bread-board into 
crumbs. These crumbs are useful in many ways. When 
ready to use them, they may be "buttered" if desired, 
by adding one tablespoon of melted butter and a quarter- 
teaspoon of salt to a half-cup of crumbs, and mixing well 
together. 

To separate the white from the yolk of an egg when 
each is to be beaten separately, crack the shell, then pull 
the shell apart and pour the contents back and forth from 
one half of the shell to the other, allowing the white to 
drop off gradually into a bowl while still keeping the yolk 
in the shell. When nothing is left in the shell but the 
yolk, this should then be put into another bowl. If the 
white is beaten first, it will not be necessary to wash the 
beater before beating the yolk. 

When frying anything in "deep fat," from two to three 
pounds of fat should be used, and the kettle containing 
the fat should be set over a slow fire at least ten minutes 
before the frying process begins. The fat must be care- 
fully watched and handled, as a serious accident can easily 
be caused by its spilling or catching fire. It should never 
be smoking hot for cooking; tests should be made from 
time to time with small bits of the material to be fried, 
and the heat regulated on the basis of these tests. The 
moment all the material has been fried, the kettle should 
be taken off the fire and set in some safe place to cool for 
a few minutes. Then pour out the fat through a fine 
strainer or piece of cheese-cloth into a bowl or jar kept 
for this purpose. After it is thoroughly cold, the fat 
should be placed in the ice-box. 

[ 13] 




SOUP STOCK 

MATERIALS 



UTENSILS 



\ x /i pounds veal 
V/i pounds beef 
1 onion — sliced 
6 cloves 

1 bay-leaf 

2 sprigs parsley 

2 celery tops 

3 quarts cold water 



Large covered saucepan 

Vegetable-knife 

Large spoon 

Colander 

Bowl 

Quart measure 



DIRECTIONS 



1. Put all the materials in a saucepan, cover the pan, 

place it on the fire, and bring slowly to the boiling- 
point. 

2. With a large spoon, skim off the foam and other sur- 

face deposits. 

3. Reduce the heat, cover the saucepan tightly, and let 

simmer three hours. 

4. Take from the fire, pour the contents of the saucepan 

through a colander into a bowl, and set the bowl in 
a cool place overnight. 

5. In the morning, remove the cake of fat from the sur- 

face of the Soup Stock, and place the bowl in the 
ice-box until needed from time to time in the prep- 
aration of soup, gravy, etc. 

[ 14] 



SOUP STOCK— Continued 

REMARKS 

The knuckle or shin-bone of beef and veal is suitable 
for making Soup Stock. The meat and bone should be 
cut by the butcher into small pieces. 

Soup Stock is the basis for many kinds of soup, and is 
sometimes used in making gravy or sauce. 



BOUILLON 

Bouillon consists of Soup Stock (page 14), with season- 
ing added. Use V/2 cups of the stock, Y2 teaspoon of 
salt, and a little pepper. Place in a small saucepan and 
bring slowly to the boiling-point. Serve in cups, either 
hot or cold, with Toasted Crackers (page 20) or Crou- 
tons (page 20). To make Tomato Bouillon, add J^ cup 
of tomato juice to the Soup Stock. 



CONSOMME 

Use \Y2 cups of Soup Stock (page 14), 1 teaspoon of 
salt, and a little pepper. Add to this J^ cup of either 
fine-chopped cooked vegetables, cooked rice, or macaroni. 
Place in a small saucepan, and bring slowly to the boil- 
ing-point. Serve hot with either plain or Cheese Crack- 
ers (page 20). 



[15] 



VEGETABLE SOUP 



UTENSILS 

Medium-sized covered sauce- 
pan 
Vegetable-knife 
Small saucepan 



MATERIALS 

2 cups Soup Stock (page 14) 

1 small carrot 

1 small onion 

1 small turnip 

1 small potato 

% cup chopped cabbage 

Y2 cup chopped celery 

1 tomato — fresh or canned 

Yi tablespoon chopped parsley 

V/2 teaspoons salt 

Pepper 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Peel all the vegetables, and cut them into small pieces. 

2. Boil the carrot and turnip one-half hour in a small 

saucepan, adding boiling water from time to time 
to make up for evaporation. Drain off the water. 

3. Put all the materials in a medium-sized saucepan, 

cover the pan, place it on the fire, and let simmer 
slowly for one hour. 

REMARKS 

It is not practicable to make this particular soup in a 
smaller quantity. 



[ 16] 



CREAM OF VEGETABLE SOUP 

The general method described below may be followed 
for making any form of creamed vegetable soup — aspara- 
gus, cauliflower, celery, corn, green-pea, potato, tomato, 
spinach, or onion. The vegetable used may be either 
canned or fresh; in the latter case, however, it must be 
previously cooked. 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup White Sauce No. 1 Colander or potato-ricer 

3^ cup vegetable pulp Bowl 

Potato-masher 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Make White Sauce No. 1 according to directions on 

page 150. 

2. Prepare the vegetable pulp by rubbing the canned or 

cooked vegetable through a colander with a potato- 
masher, or pressing it through the potato-ricer. 

3. Add the vegetable pulp to the White Sauce, and mix. 

4. Place the saucepan over the fire until the soup is 

thoroughly heated. 

REMARKS 

In making cream of tomato soup, a speck of soda must 
be added to the tomato to prevent the latter from curdling 
the milk. 

For cream of potato soup, omit flour from the White 
Sauce, and add a little onion juice and chopped parsley 
for added flavor. 



[ 17] 



OYSTER STEW 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

14 pint oysters Strainer 

2 cups milk Small saucepan 

1 tablespoon flour Medium-sized saucepan 

1 tablespoon butter 

1 teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Pour the oysters into a strainer, allowing the liquid to 

drain into a small saucepan. 

2. While the oysters are still in the strainer, pour cold 

water through them. 

3. Put the oysters into the saucepan with their liquid. 

4. Place the saucepan over a very low fire, heating until 

the oysters begin to curl around the edges, then 
take the saucepan from the fire. 

5. Put the butter in the medium-sized saucepan and 

allow it to melt over the fire. 

6. Add the flour, salt, and pepper to the melted butter, 

and mix thoroughly. 

7. Add the milk slowly to this mixture, stirring con- 

stantly, and continue heating until it boils. 

8. Add the oysters and their liquid, and bring the whole 

to a boil. 

REMARKS 

As soon as oysters arrive from the store they should 
be poured into a bowl and put in the ice-box until time 
to prepare and serve them. 



[ 18] 



CREOLE SOUP 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 tablespoon green pepper Vegetable-knife 

1 tablespoon red pepper Medium-sized covered sauce- 

1 tablespoon flour pan 

1 tablespoon butter Strainer 

V/2 cups Soup Stock (page 14) Bowl 

1 cup tomato pulp 

]4 cup corn 

1 teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Chop or cut the peppers into very small bits. 

2. Melt the butter in a saucepan. 

3. Add the flour and chopped peppers, and mix thor- 

oughly. 

4. Add the Soup Stock and tomato pulp slowly, stirring 

constantly until the boiling-point is reached. 

5. Reduce the heat, cover the saucepan, and let simmer 

for twenty minutes. 

6. Strain into a bowl, season, and add the corn. 

7. Replace in the saucepan, reheat, and serve at once. 

REMARKS 

Canned corn is ordinarily used for this recipe. If 
fresh corn is used, it must first be boiled, and then cut 
from the cob. 



[ 19] 






SOUP ACCESSORIES 

Toasted Crackers 

4 Put J4 teaspoon of butter in the centre of each cracker, 
and bake on a pie-plate until slightly brown. Use un- 
sweetened crackers for this purpose. 

Cheese Crackers 

Sprinkle grated cheese over the crackers, arrange them 
on a pie-plate, and bake until the cheese melts. 

Croutons 

Cut stale bread into J^-inch squares, and brown either 
in the oven or in melted butter in the frying-pan. The 
croutons should be placed on the table in a dish or bowl, 
with a spoon for serving. 



[20] 




2w^^^*^^^W^^g^^2^^2^^te25[g£^^$^2^ 



FISH BROILED 

MATERIALS 

Fish weighing from 2 to 4 pounds 

Salt 

Pepper 

Butter 

Lemon 

Pimento or parsley 



IN OVEN 

UTENSILS 

Broiler or shallow baking- 
pan 
Sharp knife 
Pancake-turner 
Long-handled fork 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Remove the head and tail, wash the fish thoroughly 

and split it lengthwise down the back. 

2. Grease the broiler or baking-pan thoroughly, open 

the fish, and place it flat on the broiler or baking- 
pan with the skin side down. 

3. Place the broiler or baking-pan in the lower oven, 

close to the flame, and cook for five minutes. 

4. Reduce the heat by turning the gas down or lowering 

the rack of the oven. 

5. Cook from twenty to forty minutes, depending upon 

the weight of the fish. 

6. With a long-handled fork and a pancake-turner, care- 

fully lift the fish onto the hot platter, sprinkle the 
fish with salt and pepper, put a few bits of butter 
on it, squeeze a little lemon juice over it, and gar- 
nish the platter with sprigs of parsley. 
[21] 



FISH BROILED IN FRYING-PAN 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 pound small fish or fish-steaks Plate for crumbs 

Y2 cup corn-meal or bread crumbs Covered frying-pan 

\i cup lard or drippings Long-handled fork 

Salt Colander and paper 
Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Wash the fish, dry it, and roll it in corn-meal or 

bread crumbs. 

2. Melt the lard or drippings in a frying-pan over the 

fire. 

3. When the fat begins to smoke, place the fish in it. 

4. Reduce the heat, cover the pan, and cook slowly for 

five minutes. 

5. Remove the cover of the pan and brown the fish on 

both sides. 

6. Put the fish in soft crumpled paper in the colander, 

sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve as soon as 
possible. 

REMARKS 

Small fish cooked in this way should be split, but the 
heads and tails need not be removed. 

A little additional fat may be added during the cooking 
process, if necessary to prevent burning. 



[22] 



BAKED FISH 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

Fish weighing 2 pounds or more Large needle, with thread 

Stuffing Baking-pan 

6 slices salt pork Large spoon 

Salt 

Pepper 

Bread crumbs 

Flour 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Make the stuffing in accordance with directions on 

page 24. 

2. Wash the fish, stuff it, and sew it up. 

3. Place slices of salt pork on the bottom of a baking- 

pan, and lay the fish on these slices. 

4. Sprinkle the fish with salt, pepper, flour, and bread 

crumbs, and lay two slices of salt pork on the top 
of the fish. 

5. Pour one cup of hot water in the pan around the fish, 

and place the pan in a moderately hot oven. 

6. Cook fifteen minutes to each pound of fish, basting 

often. 

REMARKS 

It is taken for granted that the fish will be cleaned by 
the dealer. 

The head and tail may be removed if desired. 

Serve with gravy made in accordance with directions 
on page 25. 



£23} 



STUFFING FOR BAKED FISH 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

Yz cup bread crumbs Saucepan 

% cup cracker crumbs Grater 

4 tablespoons butter Vegetable-knife 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

1 teaspoon grated onion 

3^ teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Melt the butter in a saucepan. 

2. Add the bread and cracker crumbs to the melted but- 

ter, and then add all the other materials, mixing 
thoroughly. 

3. Add boiling water, stirring in a very little at a time, 

until the mixture is sufficiently moist to hold to- 
gether well. 

REMARKS 

In addition to the materials above mentioned, any or 
all of the following may be added, if desired : 



1 teaspoon sweet marjoram 
Few grains celery salt 
1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
1 tablespoon capers 
4 olives 
teaspoon lemon juice 



[24] 



GRAVY FOR BAKED FISH 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 tablespoon flour Small saucepan 

1 tablespoon butter Strainer 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
1 teaspoon lemon juice 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Melt the butter in a saucepan. 

2. Add the flour to the butter, and mix thoroughly. 

3. Strain the liquid from the pan in which the fish was 

baked into a measuring- cup, and add enough hot 
water to fill the cup 

4. Add this liquid to the butter-and-flour mixture, stir- 

ring constantly over the fire until it thickens and 
boils. 

5. Add the Worcestershire sauce and lemon juice. 



[25] 



BOILED FISH 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

Fish weighing from 2 to 4 pounds Large covered saucepan 

Colander 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Wash the fish, cut off the head and tail, and tie or 

sew the fish in a piece of clean white cheese-cloth. 

2. Put the fish in a large saucepan of rapidly boiling 

water, to which a tablespoon of vinegar has been 
added. 

3. Reduce the heat at once, and let simmer for thirty- 

minutes if the fish weighs 2 pounds, and fifteen 
minutes longer for each additional pound. 

4. Lift the fish out of the saucepan, and put it into a 

colander to drain. 

5. When thoroughly drained open the cloth, lift the 

fish out by the sides of the cloth, and roll it care- 
fully onto a hot serving platter. 

REMARKS 
Serve with Hollandaise Sauce (page 32). 



[26] 



CREAMED FISH 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup cold fish-flakes Plate 

1 cup White Sauce No. 2 2 forks 

DIRECTIONS 

1. If left-over fish or canned fish is used, shred it into 

small pieces with two forks. 

2. Make White Sauce No. 2 in accordance with direc- 

tions on page 150. 

3. Add the fish to the White Sauce in the saucepan, set 

the saucepan over the fire, and heat to the boiling- 
point, stirring slowly to prevent scorching. 

REMARKS 

Serve on strips of buttered toast. 

If desired, the creamed fish may be put in a baking- 
dish, covered with buttered bread crumbs, and baked for 
fifteen minutes in a moderate oven, or until browned. 



£27] 



FRIED OYSTERS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 



14 pint oysters 

legg 

Salt 
Pepper 
Bread crumbs 
Fat for frying 



Strainer 

Bowl 

Dover beater 

Frying-kettle 

Long-handled fork 

Colander with paper 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the oysters in a strainer, let the liquid drain 

away, and then pour cold water through the 
oysters in the strainer. 

2. Beat the egg in a small bowl. 

3. Roll each oyster in the bread crumbs, then dip it in 

the beaten egg, and roll again in the crumbs. 

4. Fry the oysters in hot fat until well browned, putting 

each oyster as it is fried on soft paper in a colander. 



[28] 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

}/2 pint oysters Baking-dish 

1 cup White Sauce No. 2 Strainer 
1 cup buttered cracker crumbs 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Make White Sauce No. 2, according to directions on 

page 150. 

2. Put the oysters into a strainer, draining the liquid 

into the White Sauce in the saucepan. 

3. Pour cold water through the oysters in the strainer. 

4. Mix the oysters and the White Sauce together. 

5. Put half the mixture into a baking-dish, cover with 

Y2 cup of the cracker crumbs, add the remainder 
of the oysters, and cover with the rest of the crumbs. 

6. Bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes, or until 

browned. 

REMARKS 
See Remarks under Oyster Stew (page 18). 



[29} 



CREAMED SALT CODFISH 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

14 pound salt codfish 2 forks 

1 cup White Sauce No. 2 Strainer 

Tablespoon 

Saucepan 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Soak the fish overnight in cold water. 

2. Shred the fish with two forks, removing the skin and 

bones. 

3. Put the shredded fish in a saucepan of boiling water, 

reduce the heat, and let simmer gently for ten 
minutes. 

4. Pour the cooked fish into a strainer, and with a spoon 

press out all water. 

5. Make White Sauce No. 2, in accordance with direc- 

tions on page 150. 

6. Add the fish to the White Sauce, mix well, and reheat. 

REMARKS 

Creamed Codfish is usually served on a platter garnished 
with bits of buttered toast, slices of hard-boiled egg, or 
slices of lemon. 



[30] 



CODFISH BALLS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

H pound salt codfish 2 forks 

3 or 4 potatoes Saucepan 

1 egg Bowl 

3^ teaspoon salt Dover beater 

Fat for frying Strainer 

Bread-board 
Colander with paper 
Frying-pan 
Perforated spoon 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Soak the fish overnight in cold water. 

2. Boil and mash the potatoes in accordance with direc- 

tions on pages 66 and 68. 

3. Remove all skin and bones from the fish, and shred 

it with two forks. 

4. Put the shredded fish into a saucepan of boiling 

water, reduce the heat, and let simmer gently for 
ten minutes. 

5. Remove the saucepan from the fire, pour the con- 

tents through a strainer, and with a spoon press 
out all the water from the fish. 

6. Measure the fish in a cup, and add it to twice as 

much mashed potato as there is fish. 

7. Beat the egg and add it with the salt to the fish and 

potato, mixing the whole thoroughly. 

8. Sprinkle flour on the bread-board, and put the mix- 

ture a spoonful at a time on the board, rolling 
or moulding each spoonful into a ball. 

9. Fry the balls in plenty of hot fat in a frying-pan. 
10. When the balls are browned, lift them from the fat 

with a perforated spoon, and place them on soft 
crumpled paper in the colander. 

[31] 



SAUCES FOR FISH 

Hollandaise Sauce 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 tablespoons butter Bowl 

2 tablespoons flour Dover beater 

2 eggs (yolks only) Double-boiler 

2 tablespoons vinegar or lemon juice Tablespoon 

}/2 teaspoon salt 

}/i teaspoon paprika 

Few grains cayenne 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Beat the 2 egg-yolks in a bowl. 

2. Melt the butter in the upper part of the double- 

boiler, placing this part directly over the fire. 

3. Add the flour to the melted butter, and mix well. 

4. Add Yi cup of hot water, and stir constantly over 

the fire until the boiling-point is reached. 

5. Pour this mixture into the bowl with the beaten egg- 

yolks, stirring together well. 

6. Pour the mixture from the bowl into the upper part 

of the double-boiler, set this part into the lower 
part, and place the boiler over the fire. 

7. Beat the mixture with the dover beater, while cook- 

ing, until it becomes fairly thick. 

8. Add the seasonings mentioned above. 

REMARKS 

One teaspoon of chopped parsley and J^ teaspoon of 
grated onion may be added with the other seasonings, if 
desired. 



[32] 



SAUCES FOR FISH— Continued 



Lemon Butter Sauce 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

4 tablespoons butter Tablespoon 

1 tablespoon lemon juice Bowl 

1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley Knife 

Lemon-squeezer 



DIRECTIONS 

1. " Cream " the butter. 

2. Add the lemon juice slowly to the butter while stirring, 

then add the chopped parsley, and mix thoroughly. 

REMARKS 

Serve with boiled or baked fish. All the sauce may be 
placed on the hot whole fish when the latter is ready for 
serving, or it may be added to the individual portions at 
the table. 



C33J 




ROAST MEAT 

Wipe the meat with a piece of cheese-cloth wrung out 
in cold water, place it in a roasting pan, and rub salt over 
the surface of the meat. Place the pan in a hot oven 
and cook for ten minutes. Then reduce the heat and 
pour a cup of cold water over the roast. Baste the roast 
with liquid from the pan every fifteen minutes while it 
is in the oven. 

Beef, mutton, and lamb should roast in a moderate 
oven fifteen minutes for every pound of meat in the 
roast. Veal and pork should roast in a slow oven thirty 
minutes for each pound. 

If a self-basting pan is used for roasting, the cover 
should be fitted tightly over the lower part of the pan 
after the cold water has been poured over the roast, and 
then need not be removed during the cooking. 

Peeled potatoes, boiled for ten minutes, may be put 
in the pan with the roast during the last three-quarters 
of an hour that it is in the oven, and then served on the 
same platter with the roast. 

Pork (which should only be used in cold weather) is 
usually served with baked apples or apple-sauce. 

[34] 



GRAVY FOR ROAST MEAT 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

yi cup liquid from roasting-pan Large spoon 

34 cup flour Bowl 

1 teaspoon salt 
Pepper 

2 cups hot water 

DIRECTIONS 

1. After the meat has been taken from the roasting-pan, 

pour off into a bowl all but about 34 cup of the 
liquid in the pan. 

2. With a large spoon, rub and mix the flour into the 

liquid in the pan. 

3. Put the pan over the fire, slowly add the hot water 

while stirring constantly, and allow the mixture to 
cook until it thickens and boils. 

4. Add salt and pepper. 



[35] 



BROILED STEAKS OR CHOPS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

Any of the following: 
Porterhouse steak Broiler or frying-pan 

Sirloin steak Meat-fork 

Filet of beef, sliced 
Pork tenderloins 
Mutton, lamb, or pork chops 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Heat the broiler or frying-pan, and grease it with a 

piece of fat cut from the meat. 

2. Wipe the meat with a piece of clean damp cloth, and 

put it on the hot frying-pan or broiler. 

3. After cooking for two minutes, turn the meat over. 

This will sear the surfaces and hold the juices in 
the meat. 

4. Reduce the heat, and cook from fifteen to thirty min- 

utes, depending upon the thickness of the meat, 
turning every five minutes. 

5. Shake a little salt and pepper on both sides of the 

meat just before it is done, and add a few bits of 
butter when ready to serve. 

REMARKS 

Pork requires a longer period of cooking and a lower 
temperature than either beef, mutton, or lamb. Cook 
pork chops or tenderloins at least three-quarters of an 
hour; and if a frying-pan is used instead of a broiler, cover 
the pan immediately after searing the meat and reducing 
the temperature. 



[36] 



VEAL CUTLETS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 



Slice of veal 3^-mch thick Knife 


Bread crumbs 


Saucepan 


\i cup fat for frying 


Fork 


1 egg 


Plate 


\ l A tablespoons flour 


Bowl 


114 tablespoons butter 


Dover beater 


14 teaspoon salt 


Frying-pan 


Pepper 


Tablespoon 




DIRECTIONS 



1. Cut the veal into pieces of suitable size for individual 

portions. 

2. Put the pieces of veal into a saucepan, barely cover 

them with boiling water, set the pan over a low 
fire, and simmer about thirty minutes or until the 
veal is tender. 

3. Take the veal from the saucepan, increase the heat, 

and let the liquid in the saucepan boil down until 
only one cup remains. 

4. Pour the liquid from the saucepan into a cup. 

5. Melt the butter in the saucepan, add the flour, salt, 

and pepper, and stir together. 

6. Add half the liquid in which the veal has cooked, 

and stir over the fire until the mixture begins to 
thicken. 

7. Add the remainder of the liquid, and stir until the 

mixture boils, then take the saucepan from the fire. 

8. Beat the egg in a bowl, dip the pieces of veal in the 

beaten egg, then roll them in crumbs, and fry in 
hot fat in the frying-pan, browning well on both 
sides. 

9. Put the veal on a hot platter, and pour the hot gravy 

from the saucepan over it. 

[37] 



VEAL LOAF 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 pounds veal Mixing-bowl 

Y% pound ham Tablespoon 

Y% pound salt pork Grater 

Yi cup bread crumbs Lemon-squeezer 

yi cup milk Small bowl 

2 tablespoons butter Dover beater 

Y teaspoon salt Small saucepan 

Y teaspoon paprika Bread-pan 

Y teaspoon onion juice 

Y lemon 
legg 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Have the veal, ham, and salt pork finely minced by 

the butcher. 

2. Put the bread crumbs in the mixing-bowl, add the 

milk, and let stand ten minutes. 

3. Squeeze the juice from the lemon and grate the sur- 

face from the rind. 

4. Put the meat into the mixing-bowl, stirring it with 

the crumbs and milk. 

5. Add the salt, paprika, onion, and lemon, and mix well. 

6. Melt the butter in a small saucepan and add it to 

the mixture in the bowl. 

7. Beat the egg and add it to the mixture, stirring the 

whole thoroughly. 

8. Pack the mixture into a buttered bread-pan, and 

bake one and one-half hours in a slow oven. 

9. Turn the loaf out on a platter, and allow it to cool 

before serving. 



[38] 



BAKED HAM 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 whole ham — smoked Scales 

2 tablespoons brown sugar Large covered kettle 

3 tablespoons fine crumbs Sharp knife 
12 cloves Roasting-pan 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Weigh the ham, and soak it overnight in cold water. 

2. When ready to cook it, wash the ham and trim off 

the hard skin near the end of the bone. 

3. Put the ham in a large kettle, cover it with cold water, 

put the kettle over the fire, and bring slowly to 
the boiling-point. 

4. Reduce the heat, cover the kettle, and let simmer 

gently until the ham is tender. This will require 
about thirty minutes of cooking for each pound. 

5. Remove the kettle from the fire, and let the ham 

cool in the water in which it has cooked. 

6. Take the ham from the kettle, and with a knife peel 

off the skin. 

7. Put the ham in a roasting-pan, sprinkle the sugar 

and crumbs over it, and press the cloves into its 
surface at intervals. Bake one hour in a slow oven. 

BROILED HAM 

1. Select a slice of ham about % of an inch thick, and 

soak it several hours or overnight in cold water. 

2. Pour off the cold water, cover the ham with boiling 

water, and let it stand fifteen minutes. 

3. Pour off the hot water, and broil the ham in a frying- 

pan or on a broiler under the gas, turning the slice 
every few minutes and cooking slowly until it is 
well browned. 

£39] 



IRISH STEW 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 pound beef or mutton Meat-knife 

1 small onion Covered saucepan 

2 medium-sized potatoes Vegetable-knife 
Salt Tablespoon 
Pepper Small saucepan 
2 tablespoons flour 

34 cup cream or milk 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Cut the meat in pieces about an inch and a half square. 

2. Put the meat in a saucepan, and cover with cold 

water. 

3. Place the saucepan on the fire, and bring to the boil- 

ing-point. 

4. Reduce the heat, cover the saucepan, and let simmer 

gently for one hour, adding a little hot water from 
time to time if necessary. 

5. While the meat is simmering, peel the potatoes, cut 

them in quarters, and boil in the small saucepan 
for twenty minutes. 

6. Drain the water from the potatoes, and when the 

meat has simmered for an hour add the potatoes 
to it. 

7. Mix the flour with the cream or milk, and stir it into 

the stew. 

8. Add the salt and pepper, increase the heat, and let 

the stew boil quickly for a minute or two. 

REMARKS 

When the stew has simmered for an hour, there should 
be about 1 cup of liquid left in the saucepan. If more 
than that remains, pour off enough so as to leave only 
about 1 cup. 

[40] 



BEEF CASSEROLE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 pound round steak — cut thick Sharp knife 

}/i cup French Dressing (page 82) Frying-pan 

1 tablespoon butter Tablespoon 

1 onion — sliced Casserole 

1 carrot — sliced 

3 sprigs parsley — chopped 

2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups Soup Stock (page 14) or water 

2 potatoes 

2 tomatoes — fresh or canned 

1 teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Wipe the meat with a clean damp cloth, and cut it 

into pieces about 2 inches square. 

2. Put the meat into the casserole, pour the French 

Dressing over it, and let it stand several hours or 
overnight. 

3. Melt the butter in a hot frying-pan, place the pieces 

of meat in this and allow them to brown on all 
sides. 

4. Empty the meat from the frying-pan into the cas- 

serole. 

5. Cook the onion, carrot, and parsley for about ten 

minutes in the frying-pan, adding a little butter 
if necessary to prevent burning. 

6. Stir the flour, salt, and pepper into the frying-pan 

with the vegetables, and cook until the flour 
browns, stirring constantly. 

7. Add the Soup Stock or hot water, a little at a time, 

stirring constantly, and cook until the mixture 
thickens and boils. 

8. Pour the contents of the frying-pan over the meat 

in the casserole, cover the casserole, and place it 
in a slow oven to cook for three hours. 
[41] 



BEEF CASSEROLE— Continued 

9. Peel the potatoes, cut them into small pieces, and 
brown them in the frying-pan with a little melted 
butter. 

10. Add the potato and tomato to the contents of the 

casserole at the beginning of the last half -hour of 
cooking. 

11. Remove the cover from the casserole and increase 

the heat during the last fifteen minutes of cooking. 

REMARKS 
Serve at table directly from the casserole. 



[42] 



BOILED CORNED BEEF 

1. Put 2 or 3 pounds of corned beef into a large sauce- 

pan, and cover with cold water. 

2. Put the saucepan over the fire, cover it, and allow 

the water to come slowly to a boil. 

3. After boiling for five minutes, remove the surface 

scum, reduce the heat, cover the pan, and simmer 
gently for about four hours or until the meat is 
tender. 

4. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and allow the 

meat to cool in the water in which it has cooked. 
The corned beef is now ready to slice and serve — 
with Horseradish Sauce (page 50) — or to use for 
hash. 

BOILED DINNER 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

Corned beef (2 or 3 pounds) Large covered saucepan 

2 or 3 potatoes Vegetable-knife 

Y% small cabbage 

2 turnips 

3 or 4 small carrots 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Follow the directions above for boiling the beef. 

2. While the beef is boiling, wash and prepare the vege- 

tables. The potatoes, turnips, and carrots should 
be peeled, and the cabbage cut into two or three 
parts. 

3. After the beef has boiled three hours, put the cabbage 

and turnips in the water with it. Twenty minutes 
later add the potatoes and carrots. 

4. Continue boiling until the beef has cooked four hours, 

then drain off the water, put the beef on a hot 
platter, and arrange the vegetables around it. 
[43] 



CORNED-BEEF HASH 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

14 pound boiled corned beef Chopping-bowl and knife 

2 or 3 potatoes Frying-pan 

Yi cup cream or milk 

Y2 teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Peel and boil the potatoes in time to have them cold 

when needed. 

2. Chop the corned beef and potatoes separately in a 

chopping-bowl. 

3. Heat the frying-pan, and grease it well with butter. 

4. Measure equal parts of the chopped meat and po- 

tatoes into the frying-pan, add the cream or milk 
and the seasoning, and mix together well. 

5. Cover the frying-pan and let it remain on the fire 

until the hash is thoroughly heated. 

REMARKS 

Cold left-over beef, veal, mutton, or lamb may be used 
for hash, instead of corned beef, by following these direc- 
tions, but substituting Soup Stock (page 14) for the cream 
or milk and adding a little onion juice to the seasonings. 



[44] 



BROILED OR BAKED SAUSAGE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

% pound sausage meat, or Frying-pan or pie-pan 

}/2 pound link sausages Pancake-turner 

DIRECTIONS 

1. If the sausages are in skins, they should be washed, 

and the skins pricked at frequent intervals with a 
darning-needle. If sausage meat is used, it should 
be rolled or moulded into small balls or cakes. 

2. Place the sausage in a hot greased frying-pan directly 

over the fire, or in a pie-pan in a hot oven. 

3. Turn the sausage every few minutes, and when it be- 

gins to brown reduce the heat. Then cover the 
frying-pan or pie-pan, and cook twenty to thirty 
minutes, depending upon the size of the sausages 
or cakes. 



[45] 



BROILED LIVER AND BACON 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

Y 2 pound liver Knife 

4 strips bacon Bowl 

2 tablespoons flour Frying-pan 

Fork 

Tablespoon 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Cut the liver into small cutlets one-half inch thick, 

place the cutlets in a bowl, cover them with boiling 
water, and let them stand five minutes. 

2. Drain off the water, and remove the skin and veins 

from the liver. 

3. Put the strips of bacon in a hot frying-pan, and after 

cooking a few minutes place the liver in the pan 
with the bacon. 

4. Turn both liver and bacon often, and broil about 

five minutes or until well browned. 

5. Take the meat from the frying-pan, and mix two 

tablespoons of flour into the grease in the pan. 
When well blended, pour a cup of hot water into 
it, stirring constantly until it thickens and boils. 

6. Pour this gravy over the liver and bacon on a platter, 

or serve the gravy separately in a gravy-bowl. 



[46] 



CREAMED DRIED BEEF 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

\i pound dried beef Bowl 

1 cup White Sauce No. 2 Colander 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Remove the skin and fibre from the dried beef, and 

pull the beef apart into small bits. 

2. Put the beef in a bowl, cover it with cold water, and 

let it soak ten minutes or more. 

3. Drain off the water from the beef by pouring through 

a colander. 

4. Make White Sauce No. 2 in accordance with direc- 

tions on page 150. 

5. Add the dried beef to the White Sauce in the sauce- 

pan, and let it heat slowly to the boiling-point. 

REMARKS 
Serve on slices or strips of buttered toast. 



[47] 



MEAT CROQUETTES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup cooked meat (veal, chicken, or Mixing-bowl 

lamb) — finely chopped Spoon 

Y 2 cup White Sauce No. 3 Plate 

Bread crumbs Small bowl 

1 egg Dover beater 

1 teaspoon onion juice Frying-kettle 

Yi teaspoon salt Colander and paper 

Pepper Meat-fork 
Fat for frying 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Make White Sauce No. 3, in accordance with direc- 

tions on page 150. 

2. Put the chopped meat in a mixing-bowl and add the 

White Sauce to it, mixing well together. 

3. Stir in the onion juice, salt, and pepper, and set the 

bowl in a cool place to chill. 

4. Cover a plate with bread crumbs, put 1 tablespoon 

of the cold meat mixture on this, and roll it about 
until it is coated with crumbs, then mould it into 
a ball or cylinder with the tips of the fingers. Re- 
peat this operation until all the meat mixture has 
been shaped. 

5. Beat the egg in a bowl, dip each croquette into the 

beaten egg, and then roll it once more in the bread 
crumbs. 

6. Melt the fat in an iron kettle, and allow it to become 

very hot. 

7. Put the croquettes into the fat, turn them frequently 

while cooking until they are well browned on all 
sides, then lift them out with a meat-fork and place 
them on soft crumpled paper in the colander. 
Serve as soon as possible after cooking — either plain 
or with White Sauce No. 1 (page 150). 
[48] 



TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

14 pound cold cooked meat (beef, Meat-chopper 
veal, mutton, or lamb) Baking-dish 

3 or 4 potatoes Tablespoon 

Y2 cup cold gravy, Soup Stock or 
White Sauce No. 2 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Boil and mash the potatoes in accordance with direc- 

tions on pages 66 and 68. 

2. Put the meat through the meat-chopper. 

3. Measure out 2 cups of mashed potato and place this 

in a buttered baking-dish, pushing the potato up 
around the sides of the dish, and leaving a hole in 
the centre large enough to contain the meat. 

4. Mix the chopped meat with the cold gravy, Soup 

Stock (page 14), or White Sauce No. 2 (page 150), 
and put the mixture in the hole, surrounded by 
potato. 

5. Bake in a hot oven for about fifteen minutes, or until 

the potato begins to brown. 



[49] 



SAUCES FOR MEATS 

Tomato Sauce 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup tomato pulp Saucepan 

2 tablespoons flour Grater 
2 tablespoons butter 

Y2 teaspoon salt 

Yi teaspoon grated onion 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Melt the butter in a saucepan. 

2. Add the flour, salt, and grated onion, and mix to- 

gether. 

3. Add half the tomato pulp, and stir over the fire until 

the sauce thickens. 

4. Add the remainder of the tomato pulp, and stir until 

the sauce boils. 



Horseradish Sauce 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 tablespoons grated horseradish 2 bowls 

1 tablespoon vinegar Tablespoon 

14 teaspoon salt Dover beater 

Few grains cayenne 

4 tablespoons heavy cream 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Mix the horseradish, vinegar, salt, and cayenne. 

2. Beat the cream until stiff, and add it to the other 

materials, stirring thoroughly. 

REMARKS 

Serve with hot or cold meats. 

[50] 




ROAST POULTRY 

Assuming that the bird has been cleaned and dressed 
by the dealer, it should in addition be singed by holding 
it over a flame and changing its position constantly until 
the whole surface has been exposed to the flame. Wash 
the bird in cold water, dry it well, and fill the interior 
with Stuffing (page 58). Fasten the wings and legs 
firmly and closely to the body with skewers or stout 
twine. Put the bird in a roast ing-pan with the breast 
side up, and rub the surface with salt. Make a paste of 
3 tablespoons of butter mixed with 2 tablespoons of flour, 
and spread this over the bird. Place the roasting-pan 
in a hot oven, and after ten minutes reduce the heat and 
pour from 3^ cup to 2 cups of boiling water over the bird, 
the amount of water depending upon the size of the bird. 
Baste every ten minutes by dipping up the liquid from 
the roasting-pan with a long-handled spoon and pour- 
ing it over the bird. 

Chicken, duck, and goose should roast twenty minutes 
for each pound. Turkey should roast thirty minutes for 
each pound. 

If a self-basting pan is used, the cover should be fitted 
tightly over the lower part of the pan after the water has 
been poured over the bird and then need not be removed 
during the cooking. 

[51] 



GRAVY FOR ROAST POULTRY 

After the bird has been removed from the roasting- 
pan to a hot platter for serving, pour the liquid from the 
roasting-pan into a measuring-cup. Mix 3 tablespoons 
of flour with this liquid, stirring and rubbing out every 
lump. If the cup is not quite full, add enough warm 
water to fill it; then pour the contents of the cup back 
into the roasting-pan, or into a saucepan, and set this 
over the fire, stirring constantly until the gravy thickens 
and boils. Then add 1 cup of boiling water, and stir 
until the gravy is smooth and thoroughly blended . Season 
with salt. If desired, the giblets (heart, liver, and giz- 
zard) may be parboiled slowly for twenty minutes, 
chopped finely, and added to the gravy. 



[52] 



BROILED CHICKEN 

1. Have the chicken dressed and cut in half (along the 

back-bone) by the butcher. 

2. Singe the chicken if necessary, to remove the pin- 

feathers. 

3. Wash the chicken inside and out, and then wipe it 

dry on a piece of clean cloth. 

4. Place the two pieces on a greased broiler, with the 

skin side down, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

5. Put the broiler in the lower oven and cook the chicken 

fifteen minutes, watching carefully to see that it 
does not brown too quickly. 

6. Put several bits of butter on the chicken, sprinkle 

again with salt and pepper, and broil five minutes 
longer, turning the pieces frequently. 

REMARKS 

Only very young chickens should be cooked in this 
way. Such smaller birds as squab, quail, etc., may be 
broiled according to the same directions, but should not 
be cut in two before broiling. 



[53] 



FRIED CHICKEN 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

Chicken Meat-knife 

Salt Covered saucepan 

Pepper Colander 

Flour Bread-board 

1 cup lard or similar fat Deep frying-pan 

Long-handled fork 

DIRECTIONS 

1. With a meat-knife separate the legs and wings of the 

chicken from the body, cut the body in two, length- 
wise along the back-bone, and cut each half of the 
body into two parts. 

2. Wash the pieces of chicken, and dry them on a clean 

cloth. 

3. Unless the chicken is very young (in which case it will 

not be necessary to boil it before frying) put the 
pieces into a saucepan, and barely cover them with 
boiling water. Cover the saucepan, reduce the heat 
so that the water will simmer, and cook for about 
an hour, or until the chicken is tender. 

4. Take the saucepan from the fire, drain off the water, 

and allow the chicken to cool. 

5. Sprinkle the bread-board thickly with flour and roll 

each piece of chicken in the flour, coating it thor- 
oughly. 

6. Set the frying-pan on the fire, put the fat into it; and 

when the fat melts and begins to smoke, put the 
pieces of chicken into it. Brown the chicken well 
on both sides, taking each piece from the fat as it 
is done and shaking a little salt and pepper over it. 

7. Prepare gravy as directed in the following recipe, and 

pour it over the chicken on a hot platter. 

[54] 



GRAVY FOR FRIED CHICKEN 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 tablespoons hot fat Bowl 

2 tablespoons flour Tablespoon 

% cup milk 

z /i cup hot water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. When all the chicken has been taken from the frying- 

pan, pour out of the pan into a bowl all but about 
2 tablespoons of the hot fat in which the chicken 
has fried, and place the frying-pan over a low flame 
on the stove. 

2. Stir the flour into the fat in the frying-pan, mixing it 

thoroughly so that no lumps remain. 

3. Add the milk and hot water, stirring the mixture con- 

stantly until it thickens and boils. 

4. Add the salt and pepper. 

REMARKS 

If a richer gravy is wanted, use lj^ cups of Soup Stock 
(page 14) in place of the milk and hot water. The heart, 
liver, and gizzard of the chicken may, if desired, be boiled 
until tender, then finely chopped and added to the gravy. 



[55] 



CHICKEN FRICASSEE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 



Small chicken 




Meat-knife 


4 tablespoons flour 




Saucepan 


4 tablespoons butter 




Large spoon 


\ x /i teaspoons salt 




2 bowls 


Pepper 






1 tablespoon chopped parsley 




^2 cup cream or milk 








DIRECTIONS 



1. With a meat-knife separate the legs and wings of the 

chicken from the body, cut the body in two, length- 
wise along the back-bone, and cut each half of the 
body into two parts. 

2. Wash the pieces of chicken and dry them. 

3. Put the chicken in a saucepan and barely cover it 

with boiling water. 

4. Set the saucepan over the fire, cover it, reduce the 

heat so that the water will simmer, and cook for 
forty minutes, removing the scum as it rises to the 
surface of the water. 

5. Remove the pieces of chicken from the saucepan to 

a bowl, and pour the liquid from the saucepan into 
another bowl. 

6. Melt the butter in the saucepan, add the flour, salt, 

and pepper, and mix thoroughly until no lumps re- 
main. 

7. Measure out 3 cups of the hot liquid in which the 

chicken has cooked, and add it slowly to the butter 
and flour in the saucepan, stirring constantly until 
it thickens and boils. 

8. Add the cream or milk and the parsley to this gravy, 

and put the pieces of chicken into it. 
[56] 



CHICKEN FRICASSEE— Continued 

9. Reduce the heat, cover the saucepan, and simmer for 
half an hour. 



REMARKS 

Baking-Powder Biscuit (page 134) may be split in two 
and arranged around the chicken on the serving platter, 
and the gravy poured over all. Or, the uncooked biscuit 
dough may be put by the tablespoonful into the sauce- 
pan with the chicken for the last half-hour of cooking, and 
then served on the same platter. 



CHICKEN PIE 

1. Prepare a Chicken Fricassee as directed in the pre- 

vious recipe. 

2. Place a small cup, bottom side up, in the centre of a 

baking-dish, and arrange the pieces of chicken in 
the dish around this cup. 

3. Pour enough of the gravy into the baking-dish so that 

it is nearly full, and then allow the whole to cool. 

4. Prepare Plain Pastry dough (page 85), roll the dough 

out into one thick sheet, and make several short 
cuts through the centre of the sheet with a sharp 
knife. 

5. Fit the dough over the top of the baking-dish, and 

trim off the dough that projects beyond the edges 
of the dish. 

6. Bake in a moderate oven about thirty minutes, or 

until the crust is delicately browned. 



[57] 



CREAMED CHICKEN, TURKEY, OR DUCK 

1. Cut several slices of cold cooked fowl into small cubes 

or dice. 

2. Make White Sauce No. 2, in accordance with direc- 

tions on page 150. 

3. Stir about 1 cup of the cut fowl into the White Sauce, 

and reheat slowly to the boiling-point. 

4. Serve on slices of buttered toast. If desired, a small 

amount of chopped mushrooms, pimentos, green 
pepper, or olives may be added to the White Sauce 
with the cut fowl. 



STUFFINGS FOR POULTRY 

Plain Stuffing 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 tablespoons butter Small saucepan 

1 cup bread crumbs Tablespoon 

H teaspoon salt Mixing-bowl 

Pepper 

1 teaspoon sweet marjoram 

\i teaspoon celery salt 

Few grains summer savory 

i^ cup boiling water 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Melt the butter in a small saucepan. 

2. Mix the crumbs, salt, pepper, marjoram, celery salt, 

and summer savory in a mixing-bowl. 

3. Stir the melted butter into the materials in the bowl. 

4. Add the boiling water, and mix the whole together 

thoroughly. 

[58] 



STUFFINGS FOR POULTRY— Continued 

REMARKS 

If the stuffing is to be used for a turkey, the amounts 
of the materials named should be doubled or trebled, 
depending upon the size of the fowl. 



Oyster Stuffing 

Follow the same directions as given above for Plain 
Stuffing, but add 1 cup of small oysters and 1 cup of finely 
chopped celery. 

Potato Stuffing 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

4 or 5 potatoes Meat-chopper 

Small piece salt pork Chopping-bowl 

1 onion Small saucepan 

}i cup butter Small bowl 

1 egg Dover beater 

1}4 cups bread crumbs Mixing-bowl 

1% teaspoons salt Mixing-spoon 
1 teaspoon sage 

DIRECTIONS 

1. 'Boil and mash the potatoes as directed on pages 66 

and 68. 

2. Put the salt pork through the meat-chopper. 

3. Chop the onion in a small chopping-bowl. 

4. Melt the butter in a small saucepan. 

5. Beat the egg in a small bowl. 

6. While the potato is still hot, measure out 2 cups of 

it into the mixing-bowl. Add % cup of the chopped 
salt pork, together with all the other materials, and 
mix thoroughly. 

[59] 




DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING AND 
BOILING VEGETABLES 

Artichokes — French 

1. Wash in cold water, remove the outside leaves, and 

cut off the stems close to the leaves. 

2. Cut off about an inch of the tops of the leaves, spread 

the leaves open from the centre, and remove the 
core or "choke." 

3. Tie a string around each artichoke near the top, and 

soak them in cold water for half an hour. 

4. Drain, put into a saucepan of boiling salt water, and 

boil from thirty to forty-five minutes, depending 
upon the age of the artichokes. 

5. Remove from the boiling water, and turn each arti- 

choke upside down to drain. 

6. Place the artichokes on a serving-dish, and remove 

the strings. 

7. Serve with Hollandaise Sauce (page 32), White Sauce 

No. 2 (page 150), or Mayonnaise (page 83). 

Artichokes — Jerusalem 

1. Scrub the artichokes well, using a brush and cold 
water, and peel them. 

[60] 



2. Cook in boiling salt water from one to two hours, ac- 

cording to the size and age of the vegetables. 

3. Drain through a colander, and season with salt, pep- 

per, and butter. 



Asparagus 

1. Cut off the tough root ends of the asparagus. 

2. Untie the bunches and wash the stalks thoroughly in 

cold water, scraping each stalk with a vegetable- 
knife if necessary. 

3. Tie the stalks together again in bunches, with all the 

tips lying in the same direction. 

4. Place the bunches upright in a saucepan half full of 

boiling water, so that the tips will stand out of the 
water, and boil from twenty to forty minutes, de- 
pending on the age of the asparagus. For the last 
ten minutes of boiling, turn the bunches down into 
the water, so that the tips will cook. 

5. Drain, season with butter, pepper, and salt, or serve 

with White Sauce No. 2 (page 150). 



Beans — Shell 

1. Shell the beans, and let them stand in cold water for 

one hour. 

2. Put them into a saucepan, and cover with boiling 

water. 

3. Cover the saucepan, and boil slowly from one to two 

hours, depending upon the age of the beans. There 
should be very little water left at the end of the 
cooking, so that seasoning may be added without 
draining the beans. 

[61] 



Beans — String 

1. Break off the tips of the beans, pulling the strings off 

with them. 

2. Cut or break the beans into pieces about an inch 

long, wash, and let stand an hour in cold water. 

3. Put the beans into a saucepan, and cover them with 

boiling water. Cover the saucepan, and boil slowly 
from one to three hours. 

4. Drain, and season with butter, salt, and pepper. 

Beets 

1. Scrub the beets, and cut off all but one inch of the 

stems, leaving the roots on. 

2. Cook whole in boiling water from one to four hours, 

depending upon the size and age of the beets. 

3. Drain, cover with cold water, and let stand a few 

minutes. 

4. Drain again, and remove the skins. 

5. Cut the beets into small cubes or slice them. 

6. Reheat in a double-boiler, adding butter, salt, and 

pepper, and (if desired) sugar. 

7. If the beets are to be pickled, cover them with vinegar 

and let stand several hours. 



Brussels Sprouts 

1. Wash, and remove the wilted leaves. 

2. Put in cold water and let stand an hour. 

3. Drain, put in a saucepan, cover with boiling water, 

and let boil twenty minutes, or, if the sprouts are 
large, half an hour. 

4. Drain, and season with butter, salt, and pepper. If 

desired, serve with White Sauce No. 2 (page 150). 
[62] 



Cabbage 

1. Remove the outside leaves, cut the cabbage into quar- 

ters, wash in cold water, and let stand an hour in 
cold water containing a little salt. 

2. Drain, put into a saucepan, cover with boiling water, 

add x /i teaspoon soda, and boil thirty minutes to 
an hour, depending upon age. 
Drain, and serve. 



o 
o. 



Carrots 

1. Wash, scrape, and cut the carrots into small pieces 

or slices. 

2. Put in a covered saucepan, cover with boiling water, 

and boil forty-five minutes, or longer if the carrots 
are old. 

3. Drain, and season with butter, salt, and pepper, or 

add an equal amount of White Sauce No. 2 (page 
150). 

Cauliflower 

1. Remove the leaves, and cut off the stem. 

2. Soak in cold salt water an hour or more. 

3. Drain off the water, put the cauliflower in a sauce- 

pan, cover with boiling water, and boil twenty 
minutes. 

4. Drain, and separate the flowerets or serve whole, 

using plain seasoning or White Sauce No. 2 (page 
150). 

Celery 

1. Separate and scrape the stalks with a vegetable- 
knife, cut off the leaves and roots, cut into small 
pieces, and let stand in cold water for half an 
hour. 

[63] 



2. Drain, put into a saucepan, and cover with boiling 

water. 

3. Reduce the heat, cover the saucepan, and let simmer 

from thirty minutes to an hour. 

4. Drain, and serve with White Sauce No. 2 (page 150). 

Corn 

1. Remove the husks and silk, and trim the ends of the 

ears. 

2. Put the ears into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil 

from ten to twenty minutes. 

Cucumbers 

Cucumbers are usually served as a salad without cook- 
ing, but they may also be prepared and cooked in the 
same way as Summer Squash (page 66). 

Greens 

1. Wash thoroughly in plenty of cold water. 

2. Drain, and cover with boiling water in a saucepan. 

3. Cover the saucepan, and boil one hour. 

4. Drain through colander, and chop with a sharp knife. 

5. Season and serve with vinegar, using slices of hard- 

boiled egg as a garnish if desired. 

Onions 

1. Place the onions in cold water, and remove the skins 

while under water. 

2. Drain the onions, and put them into rapidly boiling 

water in a saucepan. 

3. Boil one to two hours, depending upon size and age. 

4. Drain, season, and serve either plain or with White 

Sauce No. 2 (page 150). 
[64] 



Oyster Plant 

1. Wash, scrape, and put at once into cold water to 

which a little vinegar or lemon juice has been 
added. 

2. Cut into slices crosswise, and, when ready to boil, 

drain off the acid water, cover with boiling water 
in a saucepan, place the cover on the pan, and boil 
from thirty minutes to an hour. 

3. Drain, season, and serve in White Sauce No. 2 (page 

150). 

Parsnips 

1. Only very young parsnips are satisfactory for cooking. 

After washing, they may be cooked whole, or 
peeled and cut in small pieces before boiling. In 
the first instance, three-quarters of an hour should 
be allowed for boiling; in the second, about fifteen 
minutes. If cooked whole, the parsnips should be 
peeled and sliced after boiling. 

2. Plain seasoning should be used, and, if desired, the 

slices of parsnip may be browned in butter in the 
frying-pan after boiling. 

Peas 

1. Shell the peas, and soak in cold water for an hour. 

2. Drain, put in a saucepan, and add a little boiling 

water. 

3. Cover the saucepan, and cook slowly from twenty to 

forty-five minutes, depending on the size and age 
of the peas. Only a little water should be left in 
the saucepan after cooking, and this should not be 
drained off. 

4. Season with butter, salt, and pepper, and serve plain 

or in White Sauce No. 2 (page 150). 
[65] 



Potatoes — Irish or Sweet 

1. Scrub the potatoes, peel them or not as desired, and 

let stand in cold water for an hour or more. 

2. Drain off the water, put the potatoes in a saucepan, 

and cover with boiling water to which half a table- 
spoon of salt has been added. 

3. Cover the saucepan, reduce the heat a little, and boil 

from twenty to forty-five minutes, depending upon 
the size and age of the potatoes. 

4. Drain through a colander. 

Spinach (see Greens) 

Squash — Summer 

1. Wash in cold water, and cut in thick slices or in 

quarters. 

2. Put the pieces in a saucepan of rapidly boiling water, 

and cook twenty minutes or until tender. 

3. Drain through a colander, mash, and season. 

Squash — Winter 

1. Cut the squash in pieces, pare the hard outside rind 

from each piece, and remove the seeds and stringy 
part. 

2. Boil in salt water, or cook in the steamer, one hour 

or until tender. 

3. Drain through a colander, and either mash the pieces 

or serve them as they are. 

Tomatoes 

1. Put the tomatoes in a saucepan, pour boiling water 
over them, and let them stand one minute in the 
water. 

[66] 



2. Drain, and then pour cold water over them. 

3. Remove the skins, and allow the tomatoes to cool. 

4. Cut in quarters, or in slices crosswise; put the pieces 

in a saucepan without water, and cook slowly for 
twenty minutes. 

Turnips 

1. Wash and peel the turnips, and cut them in pieces. 

2. Boil in salt water for about three-quarters of an hour 

or until tender. 

3. Drain through a colander, and either mash the pieces 

or serve them as they are. 



SEASONING VEGETABLES 

In general, any cooked vegetable may be properly 
seasoned by adding 1 tablespoon of butter, y% teaspoon 
of salt, and y% teaspoon of pepper for each cup of vegetable. 



CREAMING VEGETABLES 

Boiled onions, carrots, cauliflower, peas, beans, po- 
tatoes, etc., may be creamed by adding White Sauce No. 
2 (page 150), in the proportion of J^ cup of White Sauce 
to 1 cup of vegetable. After mixing the vegetable and 
the White Sauce, they should be heated slowly to the 
boiling-point before serving. 



[67] 



MASHED POTATOES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 medium-sized potatoes Vegetable-knife 

2 tablespoons butter Saucepan 

3^ cup warm milk Colander 

1 teaspoon salt Potato-masher or ricer 

Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Peel and boil the potatoes in accordance with direc- 

tions on page 66. 

2. Drain through a colander, put them back in the 

saucepan, add the materials mentioned above, and 
mash with a potato-masher. Or, put through a 
ricer before adding the other materials. 

3. Place in the oven to reheat, if necessary. 



168] 



BAKED POTATOES 

1. Select potatoes of uniform size, wash them in cold 

water, and scrub with a stiff brush. 

2. Dry the potatoes on a cloth, and put them on the 

lower rack in a hot oven. 

3. Reduce the heat a little, and bake from thirty to 

sixty minutes, depending upon the size of the po- 
tatoes. 

4. Take from the oven and pinch each potato until the 

skin breaks on one side (this allows the steam to 
escape and prevents sogginess). 

STUFFED POTATOES 

1. Follow the first three directions given above for 

Baked Potatoes. 

2. When the potatoes are taken from the oven, cut a 

slice lengthwise from each potato, and with a sharp 
knife scrape out the inside pulp into a bowl. 

3. Mash the pulp, season with butter, pepper, and salt, 

add a little milk or cream, and mix well. 

4. Fill the potato skins with this mixture, place them on 

a pie-plate, and put into a moderate oven until the 
tops brown. 



[69] 



FRIED POTATOES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 or 4 medium-sized potatoes Vegetable-knife 

Fat for frying Bowl 

Salt Frying-pan or kettle 

Pepper Perforated skimmer 

Colander with soft paper 

French Fried 

Peel the potatoes and cut lengthwise in eighths — or in 
smaller pieces if the potatoes are large. Soak for an hour 
in cold water, drain, and dry on a clean towel. Fry in the 
same way as Saratoga Chips, and season with salt and 
pepper. 

German Fried 

Peel and slice the potatoes crosswise, and soak them in 
cold water an hour or more. Drain, and dry the potatoes 
on a clean towel. Cook in a frying-pan containing half 
a cup of hot fat, turning the potatoes frequently until 
they are cooked and browned on both sides. 



Saratoga Chips 

Peel the potatoes and cut them crosswise into very thin 
slices. Soak the sliced potatoes in cold water for an 
hour, then drain and dry them carefully on a clean towel. 
Have the fat smoking hot in the kettle, put the potatoes 
in the fat carefully, and let them fry until crisp and light 
brown. Lift the potatoes from the fat with a perforated 
skimmer, and put them onto soft crumpled paper in a 
colander. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

[70] 



HASHED BROWN POTATOES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 or 4 potatoes Vegetable-knife 

1 tablespoon butter Frying-pan 

3^ cup cream Pancake-turner 

1 teaspoon salt 
Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Prepare and boil the potatoes in accordance with 

directions on page 66, drain off the water, and let 
the potatoes cool. 

2. Cut or chop the potatoes into small bits, and add the 

salt and pepper. 

3. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, and put the potato 

in this. 

4. Pour the cream over the potato, cover the pan, and 

cook slowly for fifteen minutes. 

5. Remove the cover of the pan, press the potato firmly 

into the pan, and let it brown on the under side. 

6. Lift the potato with the pancake-turner, folding one 

half over the other, and put it onto a hot serving- 
dish. 

REMARKS 

A small quantity of finely chopped green pepper or 
pimento may be mixed with the potato, if desired. 



[71] 



SCALLOPED POTATOES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 or 4 potatoes Vegetable-knife 

1}4 cups milk Baking-diah 

\ x /l tablespoons flour 

1^6 tablespoons butter 

1 teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Wash, peel, and cut the potatoes into thin slices. 

2. Put a layer of sliced potatoes in the baking-dish, 

sprinkle a part of the flour, salt, and pepper over 
the potato, and add some of the butter in small 
bits. Repeat this operation until all the potato, 
flour, and seasoning has been utilized. 

3. Pour the milk into the baking-dish, cover the dish, and 

put it in a moderate oven for an hour and a quarter. 
The cover should be off the dish and the heat in- 
creased during the last ten minutes of baking. 



REMARKS 

Grated cheese may be added to each layer with the 
flour, butter, and other seasonings, if desired ; and the top 
may be covered with buttered crumbs ten minutes before 
the dish is taken from the oven. 



[72] 



POTATO CAKES 

MA TE RIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup cold mashed potato Frying-pan 

2 tablespoons butter Pancake-turner 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Mould the mashed potato into four flat cakes, about 

an inch thick, and sprinkle with flour. 

2. Melt the butter in the frying-pan, put the cakes in 

the pan, and brown them on both sides, turning 
them with the pancake-turner. 



POTATO SOUFFLE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 medium-sized potatoes Tablespoon 

yi cup cream or milk Bowl 

1 egg Dover beater 

1 teaspoon salt Baking-dish 

Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Prepare, boil, and mash the potatoes in accordance 

with the recipe on page 68. 

2. Measure out 1 cup of the mashed potato, and mix 

the seasonings and the cream or milk with it. 

3. Beat the egg very light, mix it thoroughly with the 

other materials, and then beat the whole mixture 
well. 

4. Put into a buttered baking-dish, and bake in a hot 

oven for fifteen minutes or until delicately browned. 



[73] 



FRIED EGGPLANT 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 eggplant Vegetable-knife 

1 egg Bowl 

Bread crumbs Dover beater 

Lard or similar fat Plate 

Frying-pan 
Long-handled fork 
Colander with paper 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Peel the eggplant and cut it into slices a quarter 

inch thick. 

2. Soak the slices for several hours in cold salt water. 

3. Drain off the water and wipe the pieces of eggplant 

dry on a clean towel. 

4. Beat the egg and dip the pieces of eggplant first in 

the beaten egg and then in the bread crumbs, coat- 
ing the whole surface of the slices with each. 

5. Melt the fat in a frying-pan, and when it begins to 

smoke fry the slices of eggplant, browning them on 
both sides. 

6. Drain the slices on soft paper in a colander. 



[74] 



BAKED BEANS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

14 pound dried beans Baking-dish or bean-pot 

\i pound salt pork Covered saucepan 

14 tablespoon salt Tablespoon 

1 tablespoon sugar Knife 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the beans in the baking-dish or pot, cover them 

with cold water, and let stand overnight. 

2. Pour off the water, wash the beans in fresh water ; 

and put them in the saucepan. 

3. Cover the beans with water, place the saucepan on the 

stove, and let the water come slowly to a boil. 

4. Cover the saucepan, reduce the heat, and let the 

beans simmer for two hours. 

5. Pour the beans, with the liquid in which they boiled, 

into the baking-dish or bean-pot, and add the salt 
and sugar. 

6. Scald the pork with boiling water, scrape its entire 

surface with a knife, and slash the rind deeply sev- 
eral times in each direction. 

7. Press the pork down into the beans with the rind 

side up. 

8. Cover the dish or pot, put it into a slow oven, and 

bake three hours, adding a little hot water if neces- 
sary to keep the beans moist. 

REMARKS 

If desired, two tablespoons of moiasses may be added 
with the salt and sugar. This will make the beans 
browner and sweeter, 

[75] 



STUFFED PEPPERS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 large green peppers Vegetable-knife 

% cup cold cooked meat or fish finely Saucepan 

chopped Tablespoon 

)4, cup White Sauce No. 2 Baking-pan 
34 cup bread crumbs 
1 teaspoon onion juice 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Cut a slice from the stem-end of each pepper, and re- 

move the seeds from the inside. 

2. Boil the peppers for fifteen minutes in a covered sauce- 

pan, then take them from the saucepan, drain off 
all water, and let them cool. 

3. In the same saucepan make White Sauce No. 2 (page 

150), using half the amounts called for in the recipe. 

4. Add the chopped meat or fish and the onion juice to 

the White Sauce, and mix thoroughly. 

5. With a tablespoon fill the hollow peppers with this 

mixture, and cover the tops with buttered bread 
crumbs. 

6. Put the peppers in a baking-dish, and bake in a mod- 

erate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. 



{76} 



CORN FRITTERS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

14 cup canned corn Tablespoon 

1 egg Mixing-bowl 
34 teaspoon salt Sifter 

Yi cup flour Small bowl 

Yl teaspoon baking-powder Dover beater 

2 tablespoons milk Frying-pan 

Yl cup fat for frying Pancake-turner 

Colander with paper 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Stir the corn and milk together in a mixing-bowl, 

and sift the flour, salt, and baking-powder into 
this. 

2. Beat the egg in a small bowl, add it to the materials 

in the mixing-bowl, and stir well together. 

3. Melt the fat in the frying-pan, and put the mixture 

into this (when the fat begins to smoke), a separate 
spoonful at a time. Turn the fritters frequently 
while frying, so that they will brown on all sides. 

4. Drain the fritters on soft crumpled paper in a col- 

ander. 



[77] 



SPINACH a la BECHAMEL 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

}/2 peck spinach Large covered saucepan 

3 tablespoons butter Tablespoon 

2 tablespoons flour Frying-pan 

% cup milk Colander 

% teaspoon salt Knife 

Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Wash and boil the spinach in accordance with the 

directions for preparing and boiling Greens on 
page 64. 

2. Drain through a colander, and chop the spinach 

finely with a knife. 

3. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, and add the chopped 

spinach. 

4. Sprinkle the flour over the spinach, and mix thor- 

oughly. 

5. Pour the milk slowly into the spinach, stirring all the 

time, and cook for ten minutes over a slow fire. 



REMARKS 

Slices of hard-boiled egg may be placed over the top 
of the dish of spinach just before serving, if desired. 



[78] 



sseaifese 



iiws^^^^^m^m^^m 



SALADS AND 
SALAD "DRESSINGS 



-^ffe-Srfc-^K.— m\^K- 



GREEN SALADS 

Lettuce, cress, endive, and similar greens intended for 
use as salads should be carefully washed in very cold 
water, wrapped in a cloth, and placed in the ice-box for 
several hours before serving. When ready to dress and 
serve the salad, take it from the ice-box, wipe each leaf 
on a clean dry cloth, place the leaves in a salad-bowl, and 
pour French Dressing (page 82) over the leaves. With 
a salad-fork and spoon toss the leaves about in the bowl 
until each leaf is well coated with the dressing. 

VEGETABLE SALADS 

Tomatoes, cucumbers, Spanish onions, celery, and cab- 
bage are served uncooked as salads, and should be peeled, 
sliced, chopped, or shredded, and thoroughly chilled be- 
fore using. French Dressing (page 82) is generally used 
with these salads, sometimes with the addition of a little 
Mayonnaise (page 83) placed on the top of each portion. 
For cabbage, Boiled Dressing (page 84) is commonly 
used. 

Asparagus, beets, cauliflower, beans, peas, potatoes, 
etc., should be boiled and allowed to cool, and then chilled 
in the ice-box before being used in salads. They are gen- 
erally served with a little French Dressing (page 82) to 
moisten the vegetable, and then Mayonnaise (page 83) 

[79] 



VEGETABLE SALADS— Continued 

is placed on each portion. Boiled Dressing (page 84) is 
commonly used for potato salad. 

Two or more vegetables may be used together, and 
cooked and uncooked vegetables are often combined. 

FRUIT SALADS 

Apples, cherries, pineapples, oranges, grapefruit, melons, 
bananas, etc., when used for salads should be prepared by 
peeling, removing stones or cores, and slicing or cutting 
into small cubes or dice, depending upon the kind of fruit. 
These salads are ordinarily served with French Dressing 
(page 82), sometimes with the addition of Mayonnaise 
(page 83), and whipped cream in equal parts. Com- 
binations of fruits are often served, and occasionally fruit 
and uncooked vegetables are combined. Apples, celery, 
and nuts are frequently served together; and oranges and 
celery are sometimes combined. A bed of lettuce leaves 
is nearly always used for fruit salads. 

MEAT AND FISH SALADS 

Cold cooked fowl of any kind, and cold roast veal, pork, 
or ham, when used for salads, should be cut or chopped 
into small pieces or cubes. Chopped celery should be 
added to the meat in the proportion of one part celery to 
two parts meat; and after moistening with French Dress- 
ing (page 82), the meat and celery should be thoroughly 
mixed with Mayonnaise (page 83). Sweetbreads that 
have been parboiled may be used in combination with any 
of the above-mentioned meats. Cold cooked fish or 
canned fish intended for a salad should be shredded with 
two forks, and then used in the same way as meat for a 
salad. Nuts, hard-boiled egg, capers, onion, pickles, 
olives, pimentos, parsley, etc., may be added in finely 
chopped form to any kind of meat or fish salad. 

[80] 



TOMATO- JELLY SALAD 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup tomato juice Bowl 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley Tablespoon 

1 teaspoon onion juice Saucepan 

}4 teaspoon salt Vegetable-knife 

Pepper Small cups or moulds 

Y2 tablespoon granulated gelatine 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Soak the gelatine in a bowl with 2 tablespoons of 

cold water for twenty minutes. 

2. Put all the other materials in a saucepan, set over the 

fire, and bring to a boil. 

3. Take the saucepan from the fire, add the gelatine, 

and stir until the gelatine dissolves. 

4. Pour into small cups or moulds, and set in a cool place 

to stiffen. 

REMARKS 

The jelly should be prepared six or eight hours before 
serving time, and set in the ice-box to chill. When ready 
to serve, wrap a cloth wrung out of very hot water 
around each cup or mould, and let the jelly slip out of 
the mould onto a lettuce leaf. 

Serve with a teaspoon of French Dressing (page 82) 
poured over each portion, and a tablespoon of Mayon- 
naise (page 83) put on the top. A few slices of cucum- 
ber, a piece of hard-boiled egg, or a few olives, capers, 
etc., may be used with this salad. 



[81] 



FRENCH DRESSING 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

14 teaspoon salt Bowl or cup 

Few grains cayenne Silver fork 

% teaspoon white pepper 
Y% teaspoon paprika 
2 tablespoons vinegar 
6 tablespoons olive-oil 

DIRECTIONS 

Put all the dry materials in a bowl or cup, and slowly 
add the vinegar, then the oil, stirring constantly with a 
silver fork. Beat with the fork for two or three minutes. 



REMARKS 

Part of the vinegar used may be taragon, if desired. 

A piece of ice the size of a marble may, with good re- 
sults, be put in the cup while mixing the dressing; in any 
case, the oil should be very cold. 

Any of the following may be added to the dressing, ac- 
cording to individual taste: 

yi teaspoon mustard 

Y2 teaspoon onion juice 

% teaspoon finely chopped parsley 

1 teaspoon chopped pimento 

2 chopped olives 

1 small pickle — chopped 

Yl hard-boiled egg— chopped. 

If any of the dressing is left over, it should be put in 
the ice-box, and then beaten again with a fork before 
using. 



[82] 



MAYONNAISE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 egg— yolk only Small bowl 
14 teaspoon salt Cup 

Few grains cayenne Silver fork 

yi teaspoon mustard 
34 teaspoon paprika 

2 tablespoons vinegar 
1 cup oil 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the salt, cayenne, mustard, and paprika in a 

bowl. 

2. Add the egg-yolk, and mix thoroughly with a fork. 

3. Add one teaspoon of the vinegar, and mix. 

4. Add part of the oil, drop by drop, beating with the 

fork until the mixture is so thick that it is difficult 
to stir it. 

5. Stir in a little more of the vinegar, until the mixture 

is again thin enough to beat. 

6. Add more oil, drop by drop, and then in larger 

amounts, beating constantly. 

7. Alternately beat in the remaining oil and vinegar, 

until all is used. 



REMARKS 

The egg, oil, and bowl should be very cold — this is one 
of the secrets of success. 

Should the dressing curdle while mixing, beat another 
egg-yolk in a clean bowl, and add the curdled dressing to 
it in the smallest possible amounts, beating constantly 
with a fork. 

Mayonnaise may be kept for several days in the ice- 
box if tightly covered in a small fruit jar. 

[83] 



BOILED DRESSING 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 teaspoon dry mustard Bowl 
3^ teaspoon salt Fork 

34 teaspoon paprika Small saucepan 

2 eggs — yolks only Lemon-squeezer 
4 tablespoons butter Double-boiler 

2 tablespoons vinegar Dover beater 

Yl cup thick cream 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Mix the mustard, salt, and paprika in a bowl. 

2. Add the egg-yolks, and beat with a fork. 

3. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, and add it slowly 

while stirring the egg-yolks. 

4. Add the vinegar and lemon juice slowly while stir- 

ring, and then put the mixture in the double-boiler. 

5. Set the boiler over the fire and cook, stirring con- 

stantly, until the dressing is thick like custard. 

6. Take the boiler from the fire, and at once pour the 

dressing back into the bowl. 

7. When the dressing is cool and ready to serve, whip 

the cream with a dover beater and stir it into the 
dressing. 

REMARKS 

This dressing will keep several days in the ice-box. 



[84] 



{S^^£S^^^^iS&SSS^^^^S^S^^^^^^^^j^^ 




PLAIN PASTRY FOR PIES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 



2 cups flour 

1 cup shortening- 

Ice-water 



-butter and lard 



1. 

2. 
3. 



4. 



1. 



2. 



Mixing-bowl 

Palette-knife 

Bread-board 

Rolling-pin 

Fork 

Pie-pan 



DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING THE PASTRY 

Sift the flour into a mixing-bowl. 

Cut the shortening into tiny bits. 

Wash the hands in cold water, and dry them. With 
the finger-tips work the shortening into the flour 
as quickly as possible. 

When thoroughly mixed, add a little ice-water, mix- 
ing it into the flour and shortening with a palette- 
knife. Use barely enough water to moisten the 
mixture, keeping the dough as stiff as possible. 

DIRECTIONS FOR USING THE PASTRY 

Sprinkle the bread-board with flour, place the dough 
on the board, and cut it into two equal parts. 

Set one part aside, and after sprinkling flour over the 
rolling-pin, roll out the remaining part into a 
sheet a little less than a quarter of an inch thick. 
[85] 



PLAIN PASTRY FOR PIES— Continued 

If the dough sticks to the board, loosen it care- 
fully with a knife. If it breaks or tears, fold the 
sheet of dough over once each way, sprinkle more 
flour on the board and rolling-pin, and roll the 
dough out again. It is important that there shall 
be no hole in the lower crust of a pie. 

3. Lay the sheet of dough in a pie-pan, and press it 

down against the bottom and sides of the pan. 

4. Dip one finger into cold water and moisten the 

dough around the edge of the pan. 

5. Pour in the fruit or whatever pie-filling is to be used. 

This must always be cold. 

6. Roll out the remaining dough, as described above, 

for the top crust. 

7. With a sharp knife make several cuts two or three 

inches long through the centre of the sheet of 
dough, forming a design if desired. These cuts 
are necessary to allow the steam to escape in 
baking. 

8. Lay the top crust over the top of the pie, and with 

the tines of a fork press the top and bottom crusts 
together all around the edge of the pan. 

9. Hold the pie-pan on the palm of the left hand, and 

with a knife trim off the overhanging portions of 
dough close to the rim of the pan all around. 

10. Cut the pieces of dough thus removed into thin 

strips, and press these strips into the dough all 
around the edge of the top crust. 

11. Place the pie in a hot oven, and immediately reduce 

the heat. If uncooked fruit is used for the filling, 
the heat must be very slow in order to cook the 
fruit thoroughly. 

12. Bake from thirty to fifty minutes, the length of 

time depending upon the nature of the filling used. 
[86] 



FRESH FRUIT OR BERRY PIES 

Apples should be cut in quarters, cored, peeled, and 
thinly sliced. 

Peaches should be peeled, cut in half, stoned, and 
sliced. 

Cherries or plums should have the stones removed. 

Strawberries, raspberries, gooseberries, etc., should be 
thoroughly washed in cold water, and allowed to drain. 

Cranberries should be cooked in accordance with the 
directions for Cranberry Sauce (page 147). 

In using any uncooked fruits or berries above men- 
tioned, fill the lower crust of the pie with the prepared 
fruit. Pour over this from J^ to a full cup of sugar, into 
which one tablespoon of flour has been mixed. The 
amount of sugar will depend upon the relative sweetness 
of the fruit used. In the case of apple pie, the flour 
should be omitted, but the pie should be flavored with 
J^ teaspoon of spice or 1 tablespoon of lemon juice. Any 
fruit or berry pie may be made richer by putting a few 
bits of butter on top of the filling before the top crust is 
placed over it. 

DRIED OR CANNED FRUIT PIES 

Any kind of dried fruit may be used for pies, after it 
has been prepared according to the directions on page 145. 

In using canned fruits for pies, very little, if any, sugar 
should be added to the fruit. A tablespoon of flour 
should, however, be stirred into the fruit to thicken the 
juice. 



[87] 



FILLING FOR SQUASH OR PUMPKIN PIE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

Fresh squash or pumpkin Steamer 

y^ cup sugar Colander 

34 teaspoon clove Potato-masher 

\i teaspoon cinnamon Double-boiler 

1 egg Mixing-bowl 

% cup milk Dover beater 

Mixing-spoon 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Steam several pieces of peeled squash or pumpkin 

until tender. 

2. Put the steamed vegetable through the potato-ricer, 

or mash it with a potato-masher through a colander. 

3. Scald the milk in a double-boiler. 

4. Beat the egg, and add it to 1 cup of the mashed vege- 

table in a bowl. 

5. Stir the hot milk, sugar, cinnamon, and clove into 

the vegetable, mixing all well together. 

6. Allow the mixture to cool thoroughly before being 

used in a pie. 

REMARKS 

Squash or pumpkin pie is made with a bottom crust 
only. The pie should be put into a moderate oven, and 
the heat reduced after five minutes. Cook very slowly, 
until the filling thickens like custard. 



[88] 



FILLING FOR LEMON PIE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 



1 cup sugar 


Tablespoon 


V/i cups boiling water 


Lemon-squeezer 


4 tablespoons corn-starch Grater 


Yi tablespoon butter 


Dover beater 


1 lemon 


Vegetable-knife 


2 eggs — yolks only 


Saucepan 




Bowl 




Cup 




DIRECTIONS 



1. Grate the rind of the lemon, then cut the lemon in 

two and squeeze out the juice. 

2. Mix the sugar and corn-starch together in a sauce- 

pan. 

3. Pour the boiling water slowly into the saucepan with 

the sugar and corn-starch, stirring constantly. 

4. Place the saucepan over the fire, and allow the mix- 

ture to cook until it becomes a clear thick paste, 
stirring all the time. 

5. Take from the stove, add the butter, lemon juice, 

and grated rind, and mix well. 

6. Beat the egg-yolks until light, and stir them into the 

paste in the saucepan. 

7. Allow the entire mixture to cool thoroughly before 

being used in a pie. 



REMARKS 

Lemon pie is made with a bottom crust only. After 
the pie is baked, the top is usually covered with Meringue 
(page 90), and the pie put back in the oven for a few 
minutes to brown the Meringue. 



[89] 



FILLING FOR CUSTARD PIE 

Use the materials for Baked Custard (page 92) and fol- 
low the first three directions for that recipe. Pour the 
uncooked custard into the bottom crust of the pie. Omit 
the top crust. Put in a moderately hot oven and reduce 
the heat at once, allowing the pie to bake slowly until the 
custard is stiff and the top well browned. A little nut- 
meg may be sprinkled over the top of the pie before 
baking. 



FILLING FOR COCOANUT PIE 

Use the materials for Baked Custard (page 92) and 
follow the first three directions for that recipe. Stir into 
the uncooked custard ^ cup of grated cocoanut. Make 
the pie without a top crust, and bake in a slow oven until 
the top is browned and the filling stiff. 



MERINGUE FOR PIES OR PUDDINGS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 eggs — whites only Bowl 

7 tablespoons powdered sugar Dover beater 

1 tablespoon lemon juice Lemon-squeezer 

Knife 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Beat the egg-whites until very stiff. 

2. Add the sugar, a little at a time, beating continually. 

3. Add the lemon juice, a few drops at a time, still beat- 

ing. 

4. Continue to beat for about fifteen minutes, or until 

the mixture is stiff enough to hold its shape. 

[90] 




COTTAGE PUDDING 



UTENSILS 



2 bowls 
Tablespoon 
Dover beater 
Sifter 
Cake-pan 



MATERIALS 

2 tablespoons butter 

i^ cup sugar 

1 egg 

% cup flour 

1 teaspoon baking-powder 
Y% teaspoon salt 

Y± cup milk 

Yi teaspoon vanilla 

DIRECTIONS 

1. "Cream" the butter in a mixing-bowl. 

2 Add the sugar, and "cream" again. 

3. Break the egg, adding the yolk to the butter and 

sugar and putting the white in a separate bowl. 

4. Beat the egg with the sugar and butter. 

5 Sift the flour, baking-powder, and salt together. 

6 Add the flour mixture and the milk, alternately and 

a little at a time, to the materials in the mixing- 

bowl, and beat thoroughly with a mixing-spoon. 
7. Beat the egg-white and "fold" it into the mixture 
8 Pour the mixture into a buttered cake-pan, and bake 

from twenty to thirty minutes in a moderate oven. 

Serve with Vanilla, Lemon, or Strawberry Sauce 

(pages 101-102). 

[91] 



BAKED CUSTARD 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 eggs Bowl 

}/i cup sugar Dover beater 

2 cups milk Baking-cups or dish 

\i teaspoon spice Large pan 

or 
Yl teaspoon vanilla 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Break the eggs in a bowl and beat them with a dover 

beater. 

2. Add the sugar and flavoring, and mix together. 

3. Stir in the milk. 

4. Pour the mixture into custard-cups or a baking-dish, 

set the cups or dish in a large pan half filled with 

water, and put this pan into a slow oven. 
5- Bake slowly until the custard is thick and will not 

stick to the blade of a knife thrust into the centre. 
6. Lift the cups or baking-dish from the pan of water, 

and set in a cool place. 

REMARKS 

Serve plain, with cream, or with Caramel Sauce (page 
121). 



[92] 



BREAD PUDDING 

Place 2 or 3 slices of plain bread in the bottom of a 
baking-dish, and pour over them }/ 2 cup of milk. While 
this is soaking, prepare a custard in accordance with the 
first three directions in the preceding recipe. Pour the 
custard over the bread in the baking-dish, add \i cup of 
raisins (which have previously soaked for an hour in cold 
water) and 34 teaspoon of cinnamon. Bake in a slow 
oven for about three-quarters of an hour, or until the cus- 
tard stiffens and is slightly browned. If desired, the 
pudding may be covered with Meringue (page 90) after 
baking, and then replaced in the oven until the Meringue 
browns slightly. Or the pudding may be served with 
Hard Sauce (page 100). 



[93] 



TAPIOCA CUSTARD 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 



h 
1 

2 
2 

H 
l 


[ cup pearl tapioca 

or 
V2 tablespoons minute 
cups milk 
eggs 

\ cup sugar 
teaspoon vanilla 


tapioca 


Bowl 

2 cups 

Double-boiler 

Small bowl 

Dover beater 

Strainer 

Tablespoon 






DIRECTIONS 



1. Put the tapioca in a cup, cover it with cold water, 

and let it soak one hour. 

2. Put the milk in a double-boiler, set this over the fire, 

and let the milk scald. 

3. Drain the water from the tapioca through a strainer, 

and put the tapioca in the double-boiler with the 
milk, allowing it to cook until the tapioca is trans- 
parent. 

4. Break the eggs, putting the yolks in one bowl and the 

whites in another. 

5. Add the sugar to the yolks, and beat them well to- 

gether. 

6. Pour the yolks and sugar slowly into the double- 

boiler, stirring constantly, and cook about five 
minutes. 

7. Take the boiler from the fire, separate it, and let the 

custard cool for a few minutes. 

8. Beat the egg-whites stiff, add them with the vanilla 

to the custard, and mix thoroughly. 

9. Pour into a serving-dish, and chill for several hours 

before serving. 



[94] 



CUSTARD SOUFFLE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 tablespoons flour Saucepan 

2 tablespoons butter Tablespoon 

Yz cup milk 2 small bowls 

2 tablespoons sugar Dover beater 

2 eggs Small baking-dish 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the butter in the saucepan, and hold the pan 

over the fire until the butter melts. 

2. Stir the flour into the butter, mixing well. 

3. Add \i cup of milk to the butter and flour in the 

saucepan, and stir over the fire until it begins to 
thicken. 

4. Add the remaining milk, and stir over the fire until 

it boils, then take the saucepan off the fire. 

5. Break the eggs, putting the whites in one bowl and 

the yolks in another. 

6. Put the sugar in the bowl with the yolks, and beat to- 

gether. 

7. Add the beaten yolks and sugar to the mixture in the 

saucepan, and mix well. Put in a cool place to 
chill. 

8. Beat the egg-whites, and "fold" them into the cold 

cooked mixture. 

9. Pour the mixture into a buttered baking-dish, and 

bake in a slow oven about half an hour. 

REMARKS 
Serve hot with Hard Sauce (page 100). 



[95] 






RICE PUDDING 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 pint milk Tablespoon 

1 tablespoon rice Strainer 

2 tablespoons sugar Baking-dish 
Y% teaspoon cinnamon 

2 tablespoons raisins 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Soak the raisins for half an hour in cold water. 

2. Wash the rice in a strainer, and let the water drain 

away. 

3. Put the rice into a baking-dish, and add all the other 

materials. 

4. Stir together well, put the dish into a slow oven, and 

bake about two hours. Stir every half-hour while 
it is baking, and increase the heat for the last few 
minutes, if necessary, to brown. 

REMARKS 

Serve either hot or cold. If desired, the amounts of 
the different materials may be doubled and the pudding 
served cold a second time ; in this case three hours should 
be allowed for the baking. 



[96] 



LEMON JELLY 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 



1 tablespoon granulated gelatine 

}/i cup cold water 

1 cup boiling water 

Yl cup sugar 

% cup lemon juice 



Bowl 

Tablespoon 

Lemon-squeezer 

Vegetable-knife 

Mould 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the gelatine in a bowl, add the cold water, and 

let stand twenty minutes. 

2. Add the boiling water, the sugar, and the lemon juice, 

and stir. 

3. Pour into a mould, and set in a cool place for several 

hours. 



ORANGE JELLY 

Follow the same general directions as given above for 
Lemon Jelly, but use only 1 tablespoon of lemon juice 
and add J^ cup of orange juice. 



COFFEE JELLY 

Follow the same general directions as given above for 
Lemon Jelly, but substitute 1 cup of hot coffee for the 
cup of boiling water, omit the lemon juice, and use only 
34 cup of sugar. 



[97] 



SNOW PUDDING 
MATERIALS UTENSILS 



1 tablespoon granulated gelatine 

J4 cup cold water 

1 cup boiling water 

Yl cup sugar 

14: cup lemon juice 

3 eggs 



Tablespoon 
Wire beater 
3 bowls 
Dover beater 
Lemon-squeezer 
Mould 
Vegetable-knife 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the gelatine in a bowl, add the Gold water, and 

let stand twenty minutes. 

2. Add the boiling water, the sugar, and the lemon juice, 

and stir. 

3. Set the bowl in a cool place, and let the mixture 

thicken. 

4. Beat the mixture with a wire beater until it becomes 

light and frothy. 

5. Break the eggs, putting the yolks in one bowl and the 

whites in another. 

6. Beat the whites until stiff, and then stir them into 

the gelatine mixture, combining thoroughly. 

7. Pour into a mould, and chill for several hours. 

REMARKS 

Serve with Custard Sauce (page 100) made of the three 
egg-yolks. 



[98] 



BLANC MANGE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup milk Double-boiler 

2^ tablespoons corn starch Small bowl 

^i cup sugar Tablespoon 

1 egg — white only Mould 
J^ teaspoon vanilla 

yi teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons cold milk 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Scald the cup of milk in a double-boiler. 

2. Mix the sugar, corn-starch, salt, and two tablespoons 

of cold milk in a bowl. 

3. Add this mixture to the hot milk in the double-boiler, 

while stirring. 

4. Stir until the mixture thickens, then let it cook for 

fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally. 

5. Take the boiler from the fire, and separate the top 

from the bottom. 

6. Beat the egg-white until stiff, and add it to the mix- 

ture in the boiler, beating it in well. 

7. Add the flavoring, pour into a mould, and chill. 

REMARKS 
Serve with plain cream or Custard Sauce (page 100). 



CHOCOLATE CORN-STARCH PUDDING 

Use the same materials and follow the same directions 
given above for Blanc Mange, but add one square of 
bitter chocolate melted in a cup over hot water to the 
mixture in the double-boiler. Serve with plain or 
whipped cream. 

[99] 



SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS 

Hard Sauce 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

]/i cup butter Small bowl 

1 cup powdered sugar Tablespoon 

^ teaspoon vanilla Small strainer 
1 tablespoon cream or milk 

DIRECTIONS 

1. " Cream" the butter in a bowl. 

2. Sift the sugar through a small strainer, and add it, a 

little at a time, to the butter, "creaming" the two 
together. 

3. Add the vanilla and the cream or milk, a few drops 

at a time, and mix thoroughly. 



Custard Sauce 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup milk Double-boiler 

1 egg or 2 yolks Small bowl 

2 tablespoons sugar Large spoon 
}/2 teaspoon vanilla Dover beater 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the milk in the double-boiler, and place this over 

the fire. 

2. Beat the egg and sugar together in a bowl, and then 

slowly stir into it the hot milk. 

3. Pour the mixture back into the boiler, and cook about 

five minutes, stirring constantly. 

4. Pour the custard into a bowl, add the vanilla, and 

beat with a dover beater. 

5. Chill thoroughly before using. 

[ 100} 



SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS— Continued 

Strawberry Sauce 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

i^j cup butter Bowl 

1 cup strawberries Tablespoon 

1 cup powdered sugar Colander 

1 egg — white only Potato-masher 

Small bowl 
Dover beater 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Stem the berries, wash them in cold water, and drain 

through a colander. 

2. Put the berries in a bowl, and mash them with a 

potato-masher. 

3. "Cream" the butter in a bowl, sift the sugar into it, 

and "cream" again. 

4. Beat the egg-white with a dover beater, add it to the 

butter and sugar, and mix well with a spoon. 

5. Add the berries and mix all together. 



Lemon Sauce 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

}4 cup sugar Saucepan 

}/2 cup boiling water Lemon-squeezer 

Y2 tablespoon corn-starch Grater 

1 tablespoon butter Tablespoon 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

A little grated lemon peel 

A little nutmeg 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Mix the sugar and corn-starch together in a sauce- 

pan. 

2. Add the boiling water, a little at a time, stirring 

constantly. 

[101] 



SAUCES FOR PUDDIWGS— Continued 

3. Boil three minutes while stirring. 

4. Take the saucepan from the fire, and add the lemon 

juice, grated peel, and nutmeg. Serve hot. 



Vanilla Sauce 

Follow the same general directions as given above for 
Lemon Sauce, but use Yi teaspoon of vanilla instead of 
the lemon juice, grated peel, and nutmeg. 



[ 102] 




EASY CAKE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 eggs Bowl 
Milk Sifter 

V/2 cups flour Wooden cake-spoon 

3 teaspoons baking-powder Small saucepan 
1 teaspoon vanilla Dover beater 

5 tablespoons butter Cake-pan (with tube) 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Break the eggs into the measuring-cup, and fill the 

cup to the top with milk. 

2. Pour into a bowl, and beat the eggs and milk together 

with a dover beater. 

3. Add the sugar, and beat again. 

4. Melt the butter in a small saucepan; add the melted 

butter with the vanilla, and then the flour, to the 
mixture in the bowl, and beat for at least five 
minutes. 

5. Add the baking-powder, and stir well. 

6. Pour the mixture into a buttered cake-pan, place the 

pan in a cold oven, light the gas, and bake for 
about forty minutes, reducing the heat after the 
first fifteen minutes If a layer-cake is wanted, the 
baking must be done in two shallow cake-pans, and 
about fifteen minutes allowed for the baking. 
[103] 



POUND CAKE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup butter Mixing-bowl 

1 cup sugar Mixing-spoon 
5 eggs Dover beater 

2 cups flour 2 bowls 
2 teaspoons vanilla Sifter 

or Baking-pans 

Grated peel of a lemon Teaspoon or grater and 

Juice of half a lemon lemon-squeezer 



DIRECTIONS 

1. " Cream " the butter, add the sugar to it, and " cream ,: 

again. 

2. Break the eggs, putting the yolks in one bowl and the 

whites in another. 

3. Beat the egg-whites until stiff and dry, and then beat 

the yolks until creamy. 

4. Stir the yolks into the butter and sugar, mixing well. 

5. Sift the flour, and add it to the mixture. 

6. Stir in the flavoring. 

7. "Fold" the beaten egg-whites into the mixture. 

8. Bake in a buttered cake or muffin pan, in a moderate 

oven, for about twenty minutes. 



REMARKS 

To make a layer-cake from this recipe, bake the batter 
in two shallow cake-pans. When done, remove from the 
pans, spread current jelly over the top of one layer, place 
the other layer on this, and cover the top and sides of 
the cake with Boiled Frosting (page 113). 

If a deep cake-pan is used, instead of the muffin or 
shallow cake-pans, from forty to fifty minutes in a slow 
oven will be required for baking. 

[104] 



SPONGE CAKE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

5 eggs 2 bowls 

1 cup sugar Dover beater 

Yz lemon Wooden spoon 

1 cup flour Grater 

34 teaspoon salt Lemon-squeezer 

Sifter 

Cake-pan 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Measure out the sifted flour, add salt to this, and 

sift twice again. 

2. Break the eggs, putting the yolks in one bowl and 

the whites in another. 

3. Beat the yolks until they are thick and creamy in 

texture and light in color. 

4. Add the sugar to the egg-yolks, and beat well to- 

gether. 

5. Grate the outer rind of the half lemon, and squeeze 

out the juice. 

6. Add the grated rind and juice to the beaten egg- 

yolks, and stir well together. 

7. Beat the egg-whites until stiff, and "fold" half of 

the beaten whites into the mixture already pre- 
pared. 

8. Add the flour, "cutting and folding" it in; then 

"fold" in the remaining half of the beaten egg- 
whites. 

9. Pour the batter into an unbuttered cake-pan, set 

the pan in a slow oven, and bake for one hour. 
At the end of half an hour the heat may be in- 
creased for fifteen minutes, then turned down 
again. 
10. Take the cake from the oven, invert the pan and 
let the cake stand in this way until it is cold. 
[ 105] 



CUP CAKES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup sour cream Mixing-bowl 

Yz teaspoon soda Mixing-spoon 

1 cup sugar 2 small bowls 

2 eggs Sifter 

V/2 cups flour Dover beater 

1 teaspoon baking-powder Muffin-pans 

]/2 teaspoon lemon extract 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Break the eggs, putting the yolks in one bowl and the 

whites in another. 

2. With the dover beater, beat first the whites and then 

the yolks very thoroughly. 

3. Stir the sour cream and soda together in the mixing- 

bowl. 

4. Add the sugar, and stir. 

5. Add the beaten egg-yolks, and stir again. 

6. Sift the flour and baking-powder together into the 

bowl, and stir the whole mixture vigorously. 

7. Add the lemon extract, and "fold in" the beaten 

egg-whites. 

8. Butter the muffin-pans, and fill them about two- 

thirds full of the batter. 

9. Bake in a fairly hot oven for about fifteen minutes 

or until the cakes are browned. 



[ 106] 



STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

Baking-Powder Biscuit dough Colander 

2 cups strawberries Bowl 

z /i cup powdered sugar Potato-masher 

3 tablespoons butter Pie-pan 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Stem the berries, wash them in cold water, and drain 

them through a colander. 

2. Prepare the biscuit dough in accordance with the 

directions on pages 134-5. 

3. Divide the dough into two parts, and roll each part 

out separately into a round sheet about a third of 
an inch thick. 

4. Put one of the sheets of dough on a pie-pan, spread 

half the butter over it, then place the second sheet 
on top of the first. 

5. Bake in a hot oven, reducing the heat considerably- 

after the first five minutes of baking. 

6. While the biscuit is baking, mash the strawberries in 

a bowl, and mix the sugar with them. 

7. When the biscuit dough is baked through and nicely- 

browned on top, take it from the oven and split it 
open between the two layers. 

8. Put the lower layer on a warm serving-dish, and cover 

it with mashed strawberries. 

9. Place the top layer over the lower one, spread with 

the remaining butter, and pour the rest of the 
mashed strawberries over the whole. 

REMARKS 

Serve slightly warm, with either plain or whipped 
cream. 

[107] 



GINGERBREAD 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

Y cup butter Small saucepan 

Y cup sugar Mixing-bowl 

Y cup molasses Small bowl 

1 egg Mixing-spoon 

1 teaspoon ginger Dover beater 

Y teaspoon cinnamon Sifter 

Y teaspoon clove Bread or cake pan 

1 teaspoon soda 

Y cup strong hot coffee 

2 cups flour 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, and pour it into 

a mixing-bowl. 

2. Add the sugar and molasses, and stir. 

3. Beat the egg in a small bowl, and add it to the mix- 

ture in the large bowl. 

4. Stir in the spices and beat well. 

5. Mix the soda into the hot coffee, stir well, and pour 

this into the mixture in the large bowl. 

6. Sift the flour into the mixture, and stir and beat until 

the batter is light and smooth. 

7. Pour the batter into a buttered bread-pan, or two 

buttered cake-pans, and bake in a moderate oven 
about twenty minutes. 

REMARKS 

Gingerbread may be covered with Boiled Frosting 
(page 113), if desired. 



[ 108] 



COOKIES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

}4 cup butter Mixing-bowl 

1 cup sugar Mixing-spoon 

1 egg Small bowl 
x /2 cup sour cream Dover beater 
Yz teaspoon soda Sifter 

2 cups flour Bread-board 
% teaspoon baking-powder Rolling-pin 
Yl teaspoon salt Cookie-cutter 
Yz teaspoon nutmeg Baking-pans 

DIRECTIONS 

1. "Cream" the butter in the mixing-bowl, and stir in 

the sugar. 

2. Beat the egg, add it to the butter and sugar, and 

mix. 

3. Stir the soda into the cream, and add this to the 

butter, sugar, and egg, mixing well. 

4. Sift the flour, baking-powder, salt, and nutmeg to- 

gether, and add a little at a time to the mixture 
in the bowl, stirring all together well. 

5. Sprinkle flour over the bread-board and rolling-pin, 

and place about a third of the dough on the board. 

6. Toss the dough about on the board until it is coated 

with flour, then roll it out into a sheet about J4 
inch thick. 

7. Dip the cookie-cutter in flour and cut the dough, 

putting the circles of dough into the baking- 
pans as they are cut. 

8. Take another third of the dough from the mixing- 

bowl, roll this out, and cut in the same way. 

9. When all the dough has been rolled out and cut, the 

scraps should be gathered together, worked into 
a ball, rolled out, and cut. 
t 109] 



COOKIES— Continued 

10. Bake the cookies in a hot oven for about ten min- 
utes, or until they are lightly browned. Should 
they brown more quickly on the bottom than on 
the top, place the pans in the lower oven under 
the fire for a minute or two. 

REMARKS 

If desired, granulated sugar may be sprinkled over the 
tops of the cookies, or raisins or a few chopped nuts 
pressed into the tops, just before the pans are put into 
the oven. 



t 110} 



DOUGHNUTS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 cups flour Bowl 

2 l A teaspoons baking-powder Tablespoon 

y 2 teaspoon salt Small saucepan 

1 egg Sifter 

Y 2 cup powdered sugar Dover beater 

1*4 tablespoons butter Deep iron kettle 

\i teaspoon cinnamon Bread-board 

Y 2 cup milk Rolling-pin 

2 or 3 pounds lard or similar fat Doughnut-cutter 

Long-handled fork 
Colander with paper 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Beat the egg in a bowl, add the sugar, and beat 

again. 

2. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add it with the 

cinnamon to the egg and sugar, and stir well. 

3. Sift the flour, baking-powder, and salt together, and 

add with the milk, alternately and a little at a 
time, to the mixture in the bowl, stirring con- 
stantly. 

4. Set the bowl in the ice-box for an hour or more. 

5. When ready to fry the doughnuts, put the fat in the 

kettle and set it over the fire. 

6. Sprinkle the bread-board and rolling-pin with flour, 

place half the dough on the board, and roll it 
out into a sheet about 34 mcn thick. 

7. Dip the doughnut-cutter in flour, and cut out the 

doughnuts from the sheet of dough. 

8. Take the remaining dough from the mixing-bowl, and 

repeat the operation. The scraps of dough left 
on the board should be worked together, rolled 
out, and cut. 

tun 



DOUGHNUTS— Continued 

9. Put three or four doughnuts at a time into the hot 
fat in the kettle, turning them with a long-handled 
fork so that they will brown evenly. It should 
take from three to five minutes to cook them. 
10. Lift the doughnuts from the fat as they are cooked, 
putting them on soft crumpled paper in the col- 
ander. 

REMARKS 

The temperature of the fat is an important matter. It 
should be hot enough so that the doughnuts will rise 
quickly from the bottom of the kettle immediately after 
they are put into the fat. The heat must be at once re- 
duced if the fat begins to smoke. 

The doughnuts may be coated with powdered sugar 
after frying by putting them one at a time in a small 
paper bag containing 3 or 4 tablespoons of sugar, and 
shaking the bag once or twice. 

The fat in which the doughnuts have fried should be 
strained into a bowl, and kept for the same use later. 



I H2] 



FROSTINGS FOR CAKES 

Boiled Frosting 
MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup sugar Saucepan 

1 egg — white only Bowl 

y 2 teaspoon vanilla (or other flavoring Dover beater 

extract) Tablespoon 

}/$ cup boiling water 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the sugar in a saucepan, and pour the boiling 

water over it. 

2. Place the saucepan over a slow fire, and stir until the 

sugar is melted; then stop stirring and allow the 
mixture to boil slowly until it "threads" when 
dropped from the tip of a spoon. 

3. Beat the egg-white, and then slowly pour the boiled 

sugar and water over it, stirring all the time. 

4. Add the flavoring, and beat until stiff enough to 

spread on the cake. 

Chocolate Frosting 
MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 tablespoons butter Double-boiler 

2 squares bitter chocolate Sifter 

% cup cream Tablespoon 

1 % cups powdered sugar 
Yl teaspoon vanilla 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Melt the butter and chocolate together in a double- 

boiler. 

2. Sift the powdered sugar, and add the sugar and cream, 

alternately and a little at a time, to the melted 
butter and chocolate, stirring constantly. 
[113] 



FROSTINGS FOR CAKES— Continued 

3. Take the double-boiler from the fire, and add the 

vanilla. 

4. Beat until stiff enough to spread on the cake. 

Caramel Frosting 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup brown sugar Saucepan 

\i cup milk Tablespoon 

1 tablespoon butter 
H teaspoon vanilla 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the sugar, milk, and butter into a saucepan, set 

the pan over the fire, and bring slowly to a boil. 

2. Boil without stirring until the mixture will form into 

a thread when dropped from the tip of a spoon. 

3. Take from the fire, add the vanilla, and beat until 

thick enough to spread on the cake. 



[114] 



ICE CREAM an<d ICES 



PLAIN ICE CREAM 



MATERIALS 



2 cups cream 
14, cup sugar 
2 teaspoons vanilla 



UTENSILS 

Bowl 
Tablespoon 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Stir the cream and sugar together in a bowl until the 

sugar is dissolved. 

2. Add the vanilla, and stir well. 

3. Freeze in accordance with directions on page 120. 



[ 115] 



FRENCH ICE CREAM 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 cups thin cream Double-boiler 

2 eggs or 4 yolks Bowl 

Y2 cup sugar Tablespoon 

1 teaspoon butter Dover beater 

2 teaspoons vanilla 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the eggs and sugar in a bowl, and beat until 

creamy. 

2. Add the cream, and mix thoroughly. 

3. Put the mixture in a double-boiler over the fire, and 

cook until it thickens, stirring constantly. 

4. Take from the fire and pour the mixture back into the 

bowl. 

5. Stir in the butter and vanilla, and allow it to stand 

until quite cool. 

6. Freeze in accordance with directions on page 120. 



t 116} 



CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

Add V/2 squares of bitter chocolate, melted in a cup 
over hot water, to French Ice Cream (page 116) when 
the mixture has thickened in the double-boiler. Or, use 
the amounts and directions for Plain Ice Cream (page 
115), scalding the cream in the double-boiler and adding 
to it 1H squares of bitter chocolate melted in a cup over 
hot water. If the chocolate lumps in the cream, stir over 
the fire until it dissolves. 



CARAMEL ICE CREAM 

Make Caramel Sauce (page 121), and add it to either 
Plain Ice Cream (page 115), or French Ice Cream (page 
116), instead of sugar. 



FRUIT ICE CREAM 

Three-quarters of a cup of any fruit juice or pulp (the 
fruit should be mashed through a colander) may be used 
instead of vanilla in either Plain or French Ice Cream. 
If the fruit is very acid, a little more sugar may be re- 
quired. Canned fruit may be used, in which case prob- 
ably a little less sugar will be needed. The fruit should 
be added to the mixture just before putting into the 
freezer. 



[117] 



WATER ICE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

% cup sugar Saucepan 

1 cup fruit juice Tablespoon 

2 cups water 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the water in a saucepan, and bring it to the boil- 

ing-point over the fire. 

2. Add the sugar, and stir until this is dissolved. 

3. Remove from the fire, and when cool stir in the fruit 

juice. 

4. Freeze in accordance with directions on page 120. 



REMARKS 

The juice of either oranges, lemons, strawberries, pine- 
apple, raspberries, etc., may be used for this recipe. 



[118] 



SHERBET 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

% cup sugar Cup 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatine Saucepan 

1 to 2 cups fruit juice or pulp 2 bowls 

2 eggs — whites only Dover beater 
2 cups water Tablespoon 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the gelatine in a cup, add 2 tablespoons of cold 

water, and allow it to soak twenty minutes. 

2. Put the water in a saucepan, and bring to the boiling- 

point over the fire. 

3. Add the sugar to the boiling water, and stir until it 

dissolves. 

4. Take from the stove and pour into a bowl. 

5. Add the soaked gelatine and stir well. 

6. Set the bowl in a cool place to chill. 

7. Beat the egg-whites stiff. 

8. When the mixture in the bowl is cool, add the egg- 

whites and the fruit juice or pulp, stirring well. 

9. Freeze in accordance with directions on page 120. 

REMARKS 

Any of the fruits or berries used in making Water Ice 
may be used for Sherbet also. Either the juice only, or 
the juice and pulp together, may be used. 



[119] 



DIRECTIONS FOR FREEZING 

In preparing to freeze ice cream, etc., first see that all 
parts of the freezer are at hand and in good working order. 
Put a sufficient quantity of ice in a heavy canvas bag, 
kept for this purpose, and with an axe or wooden mallet 
pound the ice in the bag into fine pieces. Mix rock salt 
with the broken ice, in the proportion of about one part 
salt to three parts ice. Put the covered freezer can in 
its proper place in the bucket, add the dasher and turning 
apparatus, fill the bucket around the can nearly full of 
the mixed ice and salt, and turn the handle until the ice 
has settled around the can as much as it will. Remove 
the turning apparatus and the cover of the can, and wipe 
away any particles of ice or salt around the top. Pour 
the mixture to be frozen into the can, replace the cover 
and the turning apparatus, and turn the handle slowly 
and steadily for from twenty to thirty minutes. Remove 
the turning apparatus and the cover, lift out the dasher 
and scrape from it into the can any of the frozen mixture 
clinging to it. Press the mixture down into the can as 
compactly as possible. Replace the cover of the can, and 
insert a cork in the hole of the cover. Remove the plug 
from the lower part of the bucket, and allow the water 
to run off. Replace the plug, refill the bucket with ice 
and salt so that it is heaped up over the top of the can, 
cover the freezer with an old blanket or piece of carpet, 
and let it stand in a cool place for an hour or more. 



[ 120] 



SAUCES FOR ICE CREAMS 

Caramel Sauce 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup sugar Enamelled frying-pan 

}/2 cup boiling water Spoon 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the sugar in the frying-pan, place over the fire, 

and stir with a spoon constantly, reducing the heat 
as the sugar begins to melt. 

2. When all the sugar is melted, add the boiling water 

slowly. 

3. Stir over the fire until the sugar again dissolves. 



Fudge Sauce 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

14 cup sugar Saucepan 

Yl cup brown sugar Tablespoon 

Yl cup milk 

1 square bitter chocolate 

1 tablespoon butter 

Yi teaspoon vanilla 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the sugar, brown sugar, milk, and chocolate in 

the saucepan, and place over the fire. 

2. Stir every few seconds, and cook until a few drops of 

the mixture will form a soft ball when dropped in 
cold water. 

3. Take from the fire, add the butter and vanilla, and 

stir well. 

REMARKS 

This sauce should be served immediately after cooking. 

[121] 




COFFEE 

Use 2 tablespoons of finely ground coffee to each cup of 
water. If an ordinary coffee-pot is used instead of a per- 
colator, mix a little beaten egg with the ground coffee be- 
fore it is put into the pot. It will also help to clear the 
coffee if a tablespoon or so of cold water is dashed into 
the boiled coffee just before the pot is taken from the 
stove. The coffee should boil three minutes if cold water 
is used at the start, or five minutes if hot water is used. 

The coffee-pot or percolator should be aired well after 
washing. At least once a week fresh water containing a 
little soda (1 teaspoon to a quart of water) should be 
boiled for several minutes in the pot or percolator; the 
latter should then be washed out in fresh hot water, and 
set in the sun to air. 

TEA 

Use 1 teaspoon of tea to each cup of water. At the 
beginning pour a little boiling water into the teapot, 
cover the pot and let it stand for a few minutes. Pour 
out the water, put in the tea leaves, cover the pot and 
again let it stand for a few minutes. Then pour in as 
much freshly boiling water as will be required, and let 
the tea leaves steep in this for five minutes before serving. 

[ 122} 



COCOA 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

(For two cups of cocoa) : Saucepan 

4 teaspoons cocoa Tablespoon 

4 teaspoons sugar 
}/2 cup water 
1 cup milk 
H teaspoon vanilla 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the cocoa, sugar, and water together in the sauce- 

pan, and stir over the fire until the boiling-point is 
reached. 

2. Add the milk, and stir again until the mixture boils. 

3. Take from the fire, stir in the vanilla, and serve. 

REMARKS 

If the cocoa is well beaten with a dover beater just after 
it is taken from the stove, the flavor will be much im- 
proved. 



C 123 ] 



CHOCOLATE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

(For two cups of chocolate) : Small saucepan 

% square bitter chocolate Double-boiler 

2 tablespoons sugar Tablespoon 

1 y 2 cups milk Dover beater 
Yi cup boiling water 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Melt the chocolate in a small saucepan set over the 

top of a teakettle containing boiling water. 

2. Heat the milk in the double-boiler. 

3. Stir the sugar into the melted chocolate, and add the 

boiling water, stirring constantly. 

4. Place the saucepan directly over the fire and let its 

contents boil for one minute, stirring all the time. 

5. Pour the contents of the saucepan into the milk in 

the double-boiler, and beat with a dover beater 
until the mixture becomes frothy. 

6. Place the top of the double-boiler directly over the 

fire, and allow its contents to reheat slowly, stir- 
ring constantly. 

REMARKS 

Serve with whipped cream. 



[124] 




Kind of cereal 

Prepared oats 
Prepared wheat 
Hominy 
Rice 
Corn-meal 



BOILED CEREALS 

Table for Cooking 

Proportion of water to cereal Boiling time 

1 cup water to 3^ cup cereal 2 hours 

2 cups water to 3^2 cup cereal 45 minutes 
2 cups water to 3^ cup cereal 1 hour 
13^ cups water to 3^ cup cereal 45 minutes 
2 cups water to 3^ cup cereal 3 hours 



DIRECTIONS 

1. After consulting the above table, measure out the 

proper amount of boiling water into the upper part 
of the double-boiler, add 3^ teaspoon of salt for 
each cup of water used, and place the upper part 
of the boiler directly over the fire. 

2. Pour the cereal slowly into the boiling water, stirring 

all the time. 

3. Let the cereal and water boil directly over the fire 

for three minutes, stirring constantly. 

4. Pour boiling water into the lower part of the boiler, 

set the upper part in place over the ower part, and 
let the cereal cook the required time as shown in 
the above table. 

[125} 



BOILED CEREALS— Continued 

REMARKS 

Rice should be washed before cooking by putting it 
in a strainer and letting cold water run through it, at the 
same time rubbing the grains of rice between the tips of 
the fingers. 

FRIED CEREALS 

Boil any cereal according to the above directions. 
Pour it into a bowl to cool, then pack it into a buttered 
baking-powder box, put the cover on the box, and let 
it stand overnight. When needed for use, take the 
cereal from the box and cut it into slices about J4 of an 
inch thick. Dip each slice in flour, and brown it in a 
little hot fat in a frying-pan. Serve with maple syrup. 

Oatmeal, corn-meal, and hominy are especially suitable 
for frying in this way. 



C 126] 



BOILED MACARONI 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

% cup macaroni — broken into one- Saucepan 

inch pieces Quart measure 

2 quarts boiling water Colander 

1 tablespoon salt 
White Sauce No. 2 

or 
Tomato Sauce 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Pour the boiling water into a saucepan over the fire, 

add the salt and macaroni, and boil for twenty 
minutes. 

2. Pour the macaroni from the saucepan into a colander, 

letting the water drain away; then pour cold water 
over the macaroni. 

3. Prepare White Sauce No. 2 in accordance with the 

directions on page 150, or Tomato Sauce in accord- 
ance with the directions on page 50, add the 
boiled macaroni to the sauce, and reheat. 



[ 127] 



BAKED MACARONI 

Add 1 cup of White Sauce No. 2 (page 150) to Boiled 
Macaroni, put the mixture in a buttered baking-dish, 
cover with bread crumbs, and bake until it browns on 
top. Tomato Sauce (page 50) may be used instead of 
White Sauce, if desired. 



BAKED MACARONI WITH CHEESE 

Put a layer of Boiled Macaroni in a buttered baking- 
dish, and cover it with grated cheese. Repeat these al- 
ternate layers of macaroni and grated cheese until all the 
macaroni has been used; then pour one cup of White 
Sauce No. 2 (page 150) over the mixture, cover it with 
buttered crumbs, and bake until it is brown on top. 

REMARKS 

Spaghetti may be used in place of macaroni in this and 
the two preceding recipes. 



{128} 



RICE CROQUETTES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

}4 cup rice Strainer 

1 egg Saucepan 

1 teaspoon butter Plate 

34 teaspoon salt 2 bowls 

Bread crumbs Dover beater 

Fat for frying Frying-kettle 

Colander with paper 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Wash the rice in a strainer. 

2. Put a pint or two of hot water into a saucepan, set 

the saucepan over the fire, and let the water come 
to a boil. 

3. Add the rice to the rapidly boiling water, and allow 

it to boil twenty minutes. 

4. Take from the fire, drain off the water through a 

strainer, put the rice in a bowl, and add the butter 
and salt. 

5. Beat the egg in a bowl, add half of it to the rice, and 

mix well. 

6. Put the rice on a plate, spreading it out thinly, and 

let it become thoroughly cold. 

7. Mould the rice into small balls or cylinders, dip each 

ball in the beaten egg in the bowl, then roll it in 
crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat until well browned. 

8. Put each croquette as it is taken from the fat onto 

soft crumpled paper in a colander. 



[ 129] 




BOILED EGGS 

The time required for boiling eggs, if the water is at 
the boiling-point when the eggs are put into it, is approxi- 
mately as follows: Soft Boiled, from two to two and a 
half minutes; Medium Boiled, from three to three and a 
half minutes; Hard Boiled, from four to five minutes. 
Hard-boiled eggs to be used cold in salads, etc., should be 
put into water at the boiling-point and the heat then re- 
duced so that the eggs will cook very slowly for twenty 
minutes. 

BAKED EGGS 

1. Break the eggs into a well-buttered baking-dish, and 

sprinkle with salt and pepper. A little cream may 
be poured onto each egg to advantage, or the tops 
covered with grated cheese. 

2. Set the baking-dish in a moderate oven, and bake for 

ten minutes. 



[ 130] 



FRIED EGGS 

1. Put 3 or 4 tablespoons of bacon grease or similar fat 

into a frying-pan, set the pan over the fire, and 
heat until the grease begins to smoke. 

2. While the fat is heating, break as many eggs as will 

be needed into a bowl. 

3. Pour the eggs carefully into the hot fat, and with a 

spoon dip up the fat and pour it over the eggs, 
while allowing them to cook slowly from three to 
five minutes. Separate the eggs with a knife if 
they run together while cooking. If desired, the 
eggs may be turned with a pancake-turner and 
browned on the under side. 



POACHED EGGS 

1. Fill a frying-pan half full of hot water, and set it over 

the fire. 

2. Add 1 tablespoon of vinegar to the water, and let it 

barely simmer. 

3. Break the eggs, one at a time, into a saucer, and slip 

each egg into the water in the frying-pan. 

4. With a spoon dip up the water and pour it over the 

eggs while they are cooking. 

5. Cook from three to five minutes, and serve on slices 

of hot buttered toast, which should be made before 
poaching the eggs. 



[131} 



SCRAMBLED EGGS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 eggs Bowl 

Y2 teaspoon salt Dover beater 

Pepper Tablespoon 

yi cup milk Frying-pan 
1 tablespoon butter 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Break the eggs into a bowl, beat with a dover beater, 

add the salt, pepper, and milk, and stir well to- 
gether. 

2. Set the frying-pan over a slow fire, and put the butter 

in it to melt and heat. 

3. Pour the mixture from the bowl into the frying-pan, 

and with a spoon begin at once to scrape from the 
sides of the pan toward the centre, keeping the 
mixture from sticking to the pan and allowing it 
to cook evenly. 

4. When the mixture has become of a jelly-like con- 

sistency, take the frying-pan from the fire, turn 
the contents out on a hot platter, and serve at 
once. 

REMARKS 

Garnish with bits of buttered toast and a few sprigs 
of parsley. Any of the following materials may, if de- 
sired, be added to the eggs just before cooking: 

14: cup tomato pulp 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 tablespoon chopped green pepper 

1 tablespoon chopped pimento 

}/i cup grated cheese 

34 cup boiled ham — chopped 

3 or 4 slices cooked bacon cut in small pieces. 

[ 132] 



OMELET 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 eggs 2 bowls 

}/2 teaspoon salt Dover beater 

Pepper Tablespoon 

2 tablespoons milk or water Omelet-pan 

1 tablespoon butter Palette-knife 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Break the eggs, putting the yolks in one bowl and 

the whites in another. 

2. Beat the yolks until they are thick and creamy. 

3. Add the milk or water, with the salt and pepper, to 

the beaten yolks, and beat again. 

4. Beat the egg-whites until they are stiff and dry, and 

then "fold" them into the mixture in the other 
bowl. 

5. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan, and pour the 

mixture into this. 

6. With the fire turned very low, cook the omelet until 

it is a light brown on the under side, using a palette- 
knife to lift the edges from the pan. 

7. Put the omelet-pan in the lower oven of the stove, 

and allow the omelet to cook slowly on top. 

8. Take from the oven, fold one half of the omelet 

over the other half, slip it from the pan to a hot 
platter, and serve at once. 

REMARKS 

Any of the optional ingredients mentioned at the end 
of the recipe for Scrambled Eggs (page 132) may also be 
added to an omelet, if desired. 

[ 133] 



m» 



fOT 'BREADS <lAND 
Q RIDDLE - CAKES 



BAKERS BREAD IS NOW SO GENERALLY USED IN PLACE 
OF HOME-MADE BREAD, EXCEPT IN THOSE HOUSEHOLDS 
WHERE PROFESSIONAL COOKS ARE EMPLOYED, THAT 
THE ORDINARY RECIPES FOR YEAST BREAD HAVE BEEN 
OMITTED FROM THIS BOOK. 



BAKING-POWDER BISCUIT 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 



1 cup flour 

2 teaspoons baking-powder 
% teaspoon salt 

3^ tablespoon butter 

% tablespoon lard or similar fat 

6 or 7 tablespoons milk 



Mixing-bowl 

Sifter 

Palette-knife 

Bread-board 

Rolling-pin 

Biscuit-cutter 

Baking-pan 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Sift the flour, baking-powder, and salt together into 

a mixing-bowl. 

2. Add the butter and lard, and with the finger-tips rub 

and work this shortening into the dry materials 
until no lumps remain. 

3. Add the milk, a little at a time, and with a palette- 

knife mix until all the dry materials are moistened. 
[ 134 ] 



BAKING-POWDER BISCUIT— Continued 

4. Sprinkle flour on the bread-board and rolling-pin, 

place the dough on the board and toss it about 
lightly until it is coated with flour. 

5. With the rolling-pin roll out the dough lightly into a 

sheet about J^ inch thick, dip the biscuit-cutter 
into the flour and cut the biscuits out from the 
sheet of dough. The scraps of dough left after 
cutting should be worked up again into a ball of 
dough, rolled out, and cut as before. 

6. Place the biscuits in a baking-pan, and bake in a hot 

oven about ten minutes, or until lightly browned. 



[ 135] 



PLAIN MUFFINS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 egg Mixing-bowl 

}4 cup milk Dover beater 

1 cup flour Sifter 

2 teaspoons baking-powder Tablespoon 

3^ teaspoon salt Small saucepan 

y<i tablespoon sugar Muffin-pans 

2 tablespoons butter 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Break the egg into a mixing-bowl, beat it, and stir 

the milk into it. 

2. Mix the flour, baking-powder, salt, and sugar in the 

sifter, and sift these into the milk and egg, stirring 
well together. 

3. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add it to the 

batter, and beat thoroughly. 

4. Butter the muffin-pans, and fill them about two- 

thirds full of the batter. 

5. Bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes, or 

until the muffins are browned. 



RICE OR OATMEAL MUFFINS 

Follow the directions for Plain Muffins as given above, 
adding Y2 to % of a cup of cold cooked rice or oatmeal 
to the batter before pouring it into the muffin-pans. 



[ 136] 



BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 tablespoons butter Mixing-bowl 

3 tablespoons sugar Tablespoon 

j egK 2 small bowls 

Y 2 cup blueberries Dover beater 

\\i cups flour Colander 

2 teaspoons baking-powder Sifter 

Y 2 teaspoon salt Muffin-pans 
Y 2 cup milk 

DIRECTIONS 

1. "Cream" the butter in a mixing-bowl. 

2. Add the sugar, and "cream" again. 

3. Beat the egg in a small bowl, and stir one-half of it 

only (about 2 tablespoons) into the butter and sugar. 

4. Wash the berries in a colander, let the water drain 

off, then put them into a small bowl and sift M 
cup of flour over them, mixing well. 

5. Mix the rest of the flour with the baking-powder and 

salt in a sifter, and sift it, a little at a time and 
alternately with the milk, into the butter-sugar-egg 
mixture, and beat thoroughly. 

6. Stir the berries into the batter. 

7. Butter the muffin-pans, fill them two-thirds full of 

the batter, and bake in a moderate oven twenty to 
thirty minutes, or until lightly browned. 

REMARKS 

Small raisins or dried currants may be used instead of 
the blueberries, if desired. 



[137] 



CORN BREAD OR MUFFINS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 egg Mixing-bowl 

1 cup milk Dover beater 

% cup corn-meal Tablespoon 

% cup flour Sifter 

3 teaspoons baking-powder Small saucepan 

% teaspoon salt Muffin-pan or cake-pan 

1 tablespoon sugar 

2 tablespoons butter 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Beat the egg in a mixing-bowl. 

2. Add the milk, and stir. 

3. Measure the flour, salt, baking-powder, and sugar 

into the sifter, and sift it into the milk and egg, 
stirring well together. 

4. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add it to the 

batter, and beat thoroughly. 

5. Butter the muffin-pans or cake-pan. Pour the bat- 

ter into the cake-pan, or fill the muffin-pans two- 
thirds full of the batter. 

6. Bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes, or 

until browned on top. 

REMARKS 

Sour milk may be used instead of sweet milk. In this 
case use only 1 teaspoon of baking-powder, and stir }/£ 
teaspoon of soda into the sour milk. 

Melted bacon grease or similar fat may be used instead 
of butter. 



C 138] 



POPOVERS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 egg Mixing-bowl 

1 cup milk Dover beater 

1 cup flour Sifter 

Yz teaspoon salt Large spoon 



Muffin-pans 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Beat the egg in a mixing-bowl. 

2. Add the milk, and stir together. 

3. Sift the flour and salt into the milk and egg, and stir. 

4. Beat steadily with the dover beater for at least five 

minutes. 

5. Butter the muffin-pans thoroughly and pour the 

batter into them, filling them two-thirds full. 

6. Bake in a moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. 

After the first fifteen minutes of baking, the heat 
should be reduced somewhat. 



REMARKS 

Popovers should always be served hot from the oven 
— if allowed to cool even slightly, they become soggy and 
unpalatable. 



[ 139] 



FRENCH OR FRIED BREAD 

. MATERIALS UTENSILS 

4 slices of bread Bowl 

2 eggs Dover beater 

}£ cup milk Frying-pan 

Salt Long-handled fork 

Fat for frying 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Beat the egg in a bowl, and stir the milk and salt in 

with it. 

2. Dip each slice of bread in the beaten egg and milk. 

3. Fry the slices in hot fat in a frying-pan, until well 

browned on both sides. 

REMARKS 
Serve plain, or with maple syrup. 



[ 140] 



MILK TOAST 

MATERIALS 

4 slices of bread 
White Sauce No. 1 
Boiling water 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Toast the bread, and keep it in a warm place until 

the sauce is made. 

2. Make White Sauce No. 1 in accordance with direc- 

tions on page 150. 

3. Pour 1 tablespoon of boiling water over each slice of 

toast, place the slices in a serving-dish, and pour 
the White Sauce over them. 



REMARKS 

To make Cream Toast, use twice as much butter for 
the White Sauce, or substitute cream for milk. 



£i«] 



WHEAT CAKES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 egg Mixing-bowl 

1 cup milk Dover beater 

1 cup flour Sifter 

1 teaspoon baking-powder Tablespoon 

Yi teaspoon salt Small saucepan 

Yz tablespoon butter Pancake-turner 

Piece of salt pork Griddle or frying-pan 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Break the egg into a mixing-bowl, beat it, and re- 

move half of it (about 2 tablespoons), stirring the 
milk with what remains in the bowl. 

2. Measure the flour, baking-powder, and salt into the 

sifter, and sift into the milk and egg, stirring well. 

3. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add it to the 

batter, and beat thoroughly. 

4. Set the griddle or frying-pan over the fire, and when 

it is very hot rub it with the salt pork. 

5. Pour the batter on the griddle or frying-pan by the 

tablespoonful, letting each spoonful spread as 
much as it will before adding another, and keep- 
ing them well separated. 

6. Run the pancake-turner beneath each cake once or 

twice while it is cooking; and when it has slightly 
browned on the bottom, turn it over and allow the 
other side to brown. 

7. Grease the griddle or frying-pan often between the 

various relays of cakes. 

REMARKS 

Sour milk may be used with this recipe, in which case 
omit the baking-powder and mix H teaspoon of soda with 
the sour milk. 

[142] 



BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 cups milk Double-boiler 

y$ cup fine bread crumbs Mixing-bowl 

3^ teaspoon salt Small bowl 

34 yeast cake Mixing-spoon 

Yz cup luke-warm water Pancake-turner 

1 % cups buckwheat flour Griddle or frying-pan 

1 tablespoon molasses 

Piece of salt pork 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Scald the milk in a double-boiler. 

2. Measure the bread crumbs and salt into a mixing- 

bowl, add the milk to them, mix, and let stand 
thirty minutes. 

3. Measure the lukewarm water into a small bowl, add 

the yeast to it, and with a spoon stir and rub the 
yeast until it is dissolved. 

4. Pour the liquid yeast into the milk and bread crumbs, 

mix, and add the buckwheat flour. Beat well, and 
let the mixture stand overnight, covering the bowl 
with a clean towel. 

5. In the morning add the molasses, and stir well. 

6. Cook on a griddle or frying-pan as directed in the 

preceding recipe for Wheat Cakes. 

CORN CAKES 

Follow the same general directions as given for Wheat 
Cakes (page 142), but use only J^ cup of flour, and add 
Yz cup of corn-meal. 



[143] 




Fruit 

Sugar 

Water 



STEWED FRESH FRUIT 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

Vegetable-knife 
Colander 
Covered saucepan 



3. 



4. 



5. 



DIRECTIONS 

Prepare the fruit by peeling, removing seeds or core, 
and cutting in small pieces. Berries will need 
stemming and washing only. 

Measure the fruit, put it in a saucepan, and add one- 
third as much water as there is fruit. 

Set the saucepan over the fire, and cook slowly from 
ten to twenty minutes, or until the fruit is tender. 

Add sugar in the proportion of 1 cup of sugar to 4 
cups of fruit, and continue to cook until the sugar 
dissolves. 

Take the saucepan from the fire and let the fruit cool. 



REMARKS 

The proportion of sugar to fruit above mentioned is 
approximate only, and really depends upon the relative 
sweetness or sourness of the particular fruit that is being 
used. 

[144] 



STEWED DRIED FRUIT 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

]/2 pound dried fruit Covered saucepan 

% to }4. cup sugar 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Wash the fruit very carefully in plenty of water. 

2. Put the fruit in a saucepan, cover with water, and 

let it stand overnight. 

3. Set the saucepan over a slow fire, cover it, let the 

fruit come to a boil, and then simmer for two hours. 

4. Add the sugar to the fruit, and when it is dissolved 

take the saucepan from the fire and let the fruit 
cool. 

REMARKS 

Apricots and peaches require more, and figs and prunes 
less, sugar than apples. 



[145] 



BAKED APPLES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 large perfect apples Baking-dish 

Y2 cup sugar Apple-corer 

Vegetable-knife 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Wash the apples and remove the cores. 

2. Put the apples in a baking-dish, fill the hollow centres 

of the apples with sugar, and sprinkle the remaining 
sugar around the apples in the baking-dish. 

3. Pour ]/2 cup of water into the baking-dish around 

the apples, and set the dish in a slow oven to bake 
from thirty to forty-five minutes, or until the apples 
are tender and slightly browned. 

4. Take the dish from the oven, and let the apples cool 

before serving, 



REMARKS 

Baked apples are sometimes served with roast pork, in 
which case they should be hot. 

A few raisins and a little spice may be put into the 
hollow centres of the apples before baking, if desired. 



[ 146] 



CRANBERRY SAUCE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup cranberries Saucepan 

3^ cup sugar Colander 

34 cup water Bowl 

Potato-masher 

Mould 

Tablespoon 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Wash the cranberries, put them in a saucepan, and 

add the water. 

2. Set the saucepan over the fire, and cook slowly until 

the cranberries are tender and may be easily 
mashed. 

3. Mash the cranberries through a colander into a bowl, 

using the potato-masher. 

4. Stir the sugar with the cranberries, put them back 

into the saucepan, and place again on the fire until 
the boiling-point is reached. 

5. Pour the sauce into a mould, and set in a cool place 

to stiffen. 



[147] 



APPLE SAUCE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

6 medium-sized apples Vegetable-knife 

% cup sugar Covered saucepan 

\Yl cups water Tablespoon 

Colander 
Potato-masher 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Cut the apples in eighths, peel, and cut away the 

core. 

2. Put the apples in a saucepan, and add the water. 

3. Cover the saucepan, set it over the fire, and let sim- 

mer slowly about twenty minutes. 

4. Take from the fire, drain off most of the water, mash 

the apples through a colander into a bowl, and add 
the sugar. 

5. Put the apple sauce back in the saucepan, set over 

the fire, and let it cook slowly about five minutes. 



REMARKS 

One-half teaspoon of spice or the juice of half a lemon 
may be added, if desired. Apple sauce is usually served 
cold, but should be hot if served with roast pork. 



[148] 



RHUBARB SAUCE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 cups rhubarb Tablespoon 

% cup sugar Vegetable-knife 

}i cup water Saucepan 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Peel the rhubarb, and cut it into pieces about 1 inch 

long. 

2. Put the pieces in a saucepan, add the water and 

sugar, and cook very slowly until tender. Or, the 
rhubarb, sugar, and water may be put into a covered 
baking-dish, and cooked in a slow oven for about 
one hour. 



[149] 



s^^m^^m^m^^^^^ ^ 




Many of the recipes in this book call for one or an- 
other of three different forms of white sauce. These 
forms vary only as regards the amount of their principal 
ingredients, the process of making and the utensils re- 
quired being the same in all three cases. The three 
varieties may therefore be differentiated, in respect to the 
ingredients required, as follows: 



No. 1 {FOR SOUPS, etc.) 

1 cup milk 
1 tablespoon flour 
1 tablespoon butter 
Yl teaspoon salt 



No. 2 ( FOR VEGETABLES, 
MEAT, AND FISH) 

1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons butter 
Yl teaspoon salt 



No. 3 (FOR CROQUETTES, etc.) 

1 cup milk 
4 tablespoons flour 
4 tablespoons butter 
Yl teaspoon salt 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the flour and butter in a saucepan, carefully keep- 
ing them on opposite sides of the pan. 
[150] 



WHITE SAUCES— Continued 

2. Hold the saucepan over the fire, allowing the butter 

to melt slowly. 

3. Mix the flour and melted butter together, and add the 

salt. 

4. Add half the milk, and stir constantly until the mix- 

ture begins to thicken. 

5. Add the rest of the milk, and stir until the boiling- 

point is reached. 

REMARKS 

White Sauce must not be left on the fire an instant 
without stirring, and the spoon in stirring must always 
touch the bottom of the saucepan. 



[151] 




Apple Sauce, 148 
Apples, Baked, 146 
Artichokes, French, 60 
Artichokes, Jerusalem, 60 
Asparagus, 61 

"Baking," Definition of, 9 
Baking-Powder Biscuit, 134 
" Basting," Definition of, 9 
Beans, Baked, 75 
Beans, Shell, 61 
Beans, String, 62 
"Beating," Definition of, 9 
Beef Casserole, 41 
Beets, Boiled, 62 
Beets, Pickled, 62 
BEVERAGES, HOT, 122-124 
Biscuit, Baking-Powder, 134 
Blanc Mange, 99 
Blueberry Muffins, 137 
Boiled Dinner, 43 
Boiled Dressing, 84 
Boiled Frosting, 113 
"Boiling," Definition of, 9 
Boiling of Liquids, 8 
Bouillon, 15 
Bread Crumbs, 13 
Bread Pudding, 93 
BREADS, HOT, AND GRID 

DLE-CAKES, 134-143 
"Broiling," Definition of, 9 
Brussels Sprouts, 62 

[ 



Buckwheat Cakes, 143 
Butter, Measurement of, 7 
Buttered Bread Crumbs, 13 
Buttering Baking-Dishes, 12 

Cabbage, 63 

CAKES, COOKIES, ETC., 

103-114 
Caramel Frosting, 114 
Caramel Ice Cream, 117 
Caramel Sauce, 121 
Carrots, 63 
Cauliflower, 63 
Celery, 63 

CEREALS, 125-129 
Cereals, Boiled, 125 
Cereals, Fried, 126 
Cheese Crackers, 20 
Chicken, Broiled, 53 
Chicken, Creamed, 58 
Chicken Fricassee, 56 
Chicken, Fried, 54 
Chicken Pie, 57 
Chicken, Roast, 51 
Chocolate, 124 
Chocolate Corn-Starch Pudding, 

99 
Chocolate Frosting, 113 
Chocolate Ice Cream, 117 
Chops, Broiled, 36 
Cocoa, 123 
Cocoanut Pie, 90 

153] 



Codfish Balls, 31 
Codfish, Creamed, 30 
Coffee, 122 
Coffee Jelly, 97 
Consomme^ 15 
Cookies, 109 
Corn, 64 
Corn Bread, 138 
Cork Cakes, 143 
Corn Fritters, 77 
Corn-Meal, 125, 126 
Corn Muffins, 138 
Corn-Starch Pudding, 99 
Corned Beef, Boiled, 43 
Corned-Beef Hash, 44 
Cottage Pudding, 91 
Crackers, Cheese, 20 
Crackers, Toasted, 20 
Cranberry Sauce, 147 
Cream of Vegetable Soup, 17 
Cream Toast, 141 
"Creaming," Definition of, 9 
Creole Soup, 19 
Croutons, 20 
Cucumbers, 64 
Cup Cakes, 106 
Custard, Baked, 92 
Custard Pie, 90 
Custard Sauce, 100 
Custard Souffle, 95 
Custard Tapioca, 94 
"Cutting and Folding," Defini- 
tion of, 10 

Double-Boiler, Use of, 12 
Doughnuts, 111 
"Dredging," Definition of, 10 
Dried Beef, Creamed, 47 
Duck, Creamed, 58 
Duck, Roast, 51 

Easy Cake, 103 

Egg- Yolks and Whites, Method 

of Separating, 13 
Eggplant, Fried, 74 



EGGS, 130-133 
Eggs, Baked, 130 
Eggs, Boiled, 130 
Eggs, Fried, 131 
Eggs, Poached, 131 
Eggs, Scrambled, 132 

Fat, Care and Use of, 12-13 
FISH, 21-33 
Fish, Baked, 23 
Fish, Boiled, 26 
Fish Broiled in Frying-Pan, 22 
Fish Broiled in Oven, 21 
Fish, Creamed, 27 
Flour, Measurement of, 7 
French Dressing, 82 
French Fried Potatoes, 70 
French Ice Cream, 116 
French or Fried Bread, 140 
Frostings for Cakes, 113-114 
Fruit Ice Cream, 117 
Fruit Sauces, 147-149 
Fruit, Stewed Dried, 145 
Fruit, Stewed Fresh, 144 
FRUITS, 144-149 
"Frying," Definition of, 10 
Frying in "Deep Fat," 13 
Fudge Sauce, 121 

Gelatine Puddings, 97, 98 
German Fried Potatoes, 70 
Gingerbread, 108 
Goose, Roast, 51 
Gravy for Baked Fish, 25 
Gravy for Fried Chicken, 55 
Gravy for Roast Meat, 35 
Gravy for Roast Poultry, 52 
Greens, 64 
Griddle-Cakes, 142, 143 

Ham, Baked, 39 
Ham, Broiled, 39 
Hard Sauce, 100 
Hash, Corned-Beef, 44 
Heat, Regulation of, 7-8 



[ 154] 



Hollandaise Sauce, 32 
Hominy, 125, 126 
Horseradish Sauce, 50 
"Hot Oven," Definition of, 8 

ICE CREAM AND ICES, 115- 
121 

Ice Cream and Ices, Directions 

for Freezing, 120 
Icings for Cakes, 113-114 
Irish Stew, 40 

Kitchen Equipment, 3-4 
Kitchen Necessities, List of, 4 
Kitchen Supplies, 3-4 

Lemon Butter Sauce, 33 

Lemon Jelly, 97 

Lemon Pie, 89 

Lemon Sauce, 101 

Liver and Bacon, Broiled, 46 

"Lukewarm," Definition of, 10 

Macaroni, Baked, 128 
Macaroni, Baked with Cheese, 

128 
Macaroni, Boiled, 127 
Mayonnaise, 83 

Measuring, Directions for, 6-7 
Meat Croquettes, 48 
Meat, Roast, 34 
MEATS, 34-50 
Meringue for Pies or Puddings, 

90 
Milk Toast, 141 
"Mincing," Definition of, 10 
"Mixing," Definition of, 10 
" Moderate Oven," Definition of, 

8 



Oatmeal Muffins, 136 
Oats, Prepared, 125, 126 
Omelet, 133 
Onions, 64 
Orange Jelly, 97 
Oyster Plant, 65 
Oyster Stew, 18 
Oyster Stuffing, 59 
Oysters, Fried, 28 
Oysters, Scalloped, 29 

"Parboiling," Definition of, 10 

Parsnips, 65 

PASTRY, 85-90 

Pastry, Plain, for Pies, 85 

Peas, 65 

Peppers, Stuffed, 76 

Pies, 85-90 

Pies, Dried or Canned Fruit, 87 

Pies, Fresh Fruit or Berry, 87 

Plain Ice Cream, 115 

Plain Muffins, 136 

Plain Stuffing, 58 

Popovers, 139 

Potato Cakes, 73 

Potato Souffle, 73 

Potato Stuffing, 59 

Potatoes, Baked, 69 

Potatoes, Boiled, 66 

Potatoes, Fried, 70 

Potatoes, Hashed Brown, 71 

Potatoes, Mashed, 68 

Potatoes, Scalloped, 72 

Potatoes, Stuffed, 69 

POULTRY, 51-59 

Poultry, Roast, 51 

Pound Cake, 104 

PUDDINGS, 91-102 

Pumpkin Pie, 88 



Muffins, Blueberry, 137 
Muffins, Corn, 138 
Muffins, Oatmeal, 136 
Muffins, Plain, 136 
Muffins, Rice, 136 



Recipe, Handling the, 5-6 
Rhubarb Sauce, 149 
Rice, 125, 126 
Rice Croquettes, 129 
Rice Muffins, 136 

[ 155] 



Rice Pudding, 96 
"Roasting," Definition of, 10 

Salad Dressings, 82-84 
Salad, Tomato-Jelly, 81 
SALADS AND SALAD DRESS- 

INGS, 79-84 
Salads, Fruit, 80 
Salads, Green, 79 
Salads, Meat and Fish, 80 
Salads, Vegetable, 79 
Saratoga Chips, 70 
Sauces for Fish, 32-33 
Sauces for Ice Cream, 121 
Sauces for Meats, 50 
Sauces for Puddings, 100-102 
Sausage, Broiled or Baked, 45 
"Searing," Definition of, 11 
Sherbet, 119 

"Shredding," Definition of, 11 
"Simmer," Definition of, 11 
"Singe," Definition of, 11 
"Slow Oven," Definition of, 8 
Snow Pudding, 98 
Soup Accessories, 20 
Soup Stock, 14 
SOUPS, 14-20 
Spaghetti, 128 
Spinach — see Greens 
Spinach a la Bechamel, 78 
Sponge Cake, 105 
Squash Pie, 88 
Squash, Summer, 66 
Squash, Winter, 66 
Steaks, Broiled, 36 
"Steaming," Definition of, 11 
"Steeping," Definition of, 11 



"Stewing," Definition of, 11 
"Stirring," Definition of, 11 
Stoves and Fuel, 7 
Strawberry Sauce, 101 
Strawberry Shortcake, 107 
Stuffing for Baked Fish, 24 
Stuffings for Poultry, 58 
Supplies, Staple, List of, 4 

Tapioca Custard, 94 
Tea, 122 

"Threading," Definition of, 12 
Toad-in-the-Hole, 49 
Tomato-Jelly Salad, 81 
Tomato Sauce, 50 
Tomatoes, 66 
Turkey, Creamed, 58 
Turkey, Roast, 51 
Turnips, 67 

Utensils for Cooking, List of, 4 
Utensils for Preparing and Mix- 
ing, List of, 4 

Vanilla Sauce, 102 
Veal Cutlets, 37 
Veal Loaf, 38 
Vegetable Soup, 16, 17 
VEGETABLES, 60-78 
Vegetables, Creamed, 67 
Vegetables, Seasoning of, 67 

Water Ice, 118 
Wheat Cakes, 142 
Wheat, Prepared, 125, 126 
WHITE SAUCES, 150-151 



[ 156] 






' [^ ^ 



mw 




ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








^■'^iC^- ~-~- = - 






From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, I9I2. 





CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 




3 1924 086 713 520 





The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924086713520 



The 

Plain Sailing Cook Book 

A COLLECTION OF SIMPLE RECIPES 
FOR BEGINNERS IN COOKERY 



BY 

SUSANNA SHANKLIN BROWNE 

GKADUATE OF DOMESTIC BCIEHCE DEPABTHENT, PRATT IlfSTITUTE ; rOKMEBLT TEACHER 

OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE, CHICAGO AND BTAtTHTON (tA.) PUBLIC SCHOOLS, 

AND LAKE FOBBST TINIVBBSXTT, LAKE rOBEST* ILLINOIS 



CHICAGO PUBLIC LIBRARY 

^EW YORK 

CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS 

1922 



COFTBIQHT, 1922, BT 

CHAELES SCRIBNER'S SONS 



Printed in the United States of America 



Published October, 1922 

TX 
US ^ 

408547 
U 12 18 221 




PREFACE 

One should be prepared with an uncommonly good 
excuse for adding still another cook book to the legion 
already in existence. My own excuse wiU, I hope, be 
considered sufficient. So far as I am aware, no cook 
book of all the multitude now in use is successfully 
adapted to the needs of the person who has never before 
attempted to cook. It is not merely that most of the 
standard cook books take for granted more or less actual 
experience over the kitchen table and range; even those 
whose special appeal is to the novice and beginner usually 
fail in their purpose because the persons who write them, 
however versed in the lore of cookery, have little or in- 
sufficient skill in simple, concise, unequivocal expression. 
Knowing how and telling how are two very different things; 
and the common notion that any one who knows how is 
therefore and thereby fully qualified to tell how has led 
to endless confusion in cookery as in many other subjects. 

What I have tried to do in this book is to tell how in 
such a way as to leave no possible room for doubt or 
misunderstanding on any point. In preparing and ar- 
ranging each recipe, I have tried to keep continually in 
mind the person who has never before cooked anything, 
and who is as entirely dependent upon not only what I 
tell, but how I tell it, as one would be in attempting 
to concoct a chemical formula upon one's first visit to a 
laboratory. 

At the beginning of each recipe there is a list of the 
kinds and amounts of the various materials required for 



that recipe, and a list of the utensils that will be needed 
for the preparation, mixing, and cooking of those ma- 
terials. Each stage of the ensuing process is then sepa- 
rately described as simply and plainly and fully as my 
use of words will permit. I have tried to leave nothing 
to the imagination, nothing to be guessed at, nothing to 
be decided from previous experience. In a word, I have 
tried to do as I would be done by, if I were the user of the 
book instead of the author. 

A glance through these pages will show that they are 
confined to the simpler every-day dishes that make up 
the staple menu of the average American family. In 
cookery, as in other things, one should begin at the be- 
ginning and serve one's apprenticeship before passing on 
to the more complex mysteries of the craft. Any one who 
has mastered the recipes here given will then, and not 
imtil then, be competent to attempt the numberless more 
elaborate dishes described in the almost ntmiberless more 
elaborate cook books. My little volume is for the tyro, 
the beginner, and for no other. Its aim is to provide 
"plain sailing" for the wholly inexperienced mariner in 
culinary waters. 

It only remains to add in this place that, as the be- 
ginner in cookery is usually the feminine half of a recently 
arranged matrimonial partnership, the recipes in this 
book are in nearly aU cases designed to serve two persons 
only. If a larger family must be provided for, the amount 
of materials called for in any recipe should, of course, be 
increased in direct proportion to the additional number 
of persons in the family. 

S. S. B. 



[vil 



CONTENTS 



ri-aa 



PREFACE V 

INTRODUCTORY 

EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES 3 

HANDLING THE KECIPE 5 

DIRECTIONS FOB MEASUBING 6 

BEGULATING THE HEAT 7 

A FEW DEFINITIONS 9 

SOME USEFUL SUGGESTIONS 12 

RECIPES 

SOUPS 14 

FISH 21 

MEATS 34 

POULTRY 51 

VEGETABLES 60 

SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 79 

PASTBY 85 

PUDDINGS 91 

CAKES, COOKIES, ETC 103 

ICE CBEAM AND ICES 115 

HOT BEVERAGES 122 

[Viij 



PAOB 

CEREALS 125 

EGGS 130 

HOT BREADS AND GRIDDLE-CAKES 134 

FRUITS 144 

WHITE SAUCES 160 

INDEX 153 



[ viii ] 



THE 
PLAIN SAILING COOK BOOK 




EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES 

The first and foremost essential in cookery is a con- 
veniently arranged and well equipped kitchen, stocked 
with the necessary staple supplies. Under the heading 
of equipment, the most important items are of course a 
cooking-stove (presumably a gas-range, with an upper and 
a lower oven), a sink, a good-sized table with enamelled 
or oilcloth top, and an ice-box. Only a little less im- 
portant than these, in view of its many advantages and 
conveniences, is a modern kitchen-cabinet. The kitchen 
should be provided with liberal shelf and cupboard space, 
and brass hooks to accommodate "hangable" articles 
should be screwed into the walls and casings at convenient 
points. 

In the selection of minor eqmpment and supplies, an 
ahnost imlimited choice is available. But the following 
lists contain practically everything that may be consid- 
ered essential for the purposes of the average housewife. 
These lists will serve as a convenient purchase guide for 
those who are furnishing and stocking a kitchen for the 
first time; and they will also be useful as check-lists in 
making occasional inventories of equipment and provi- 
sions on hand. 

[3} 



INTRODUCTORY 



GENERAL KITCHEN NECESSITIES 



Covered garbage-pail 

Waste-paper basket 

Broom 

Duat-pan and brush 

Long-handled mop 

Dish-towel rack 

Roller-towel rack 

6 dish-towels 

2 roUer-towels 

2 dish-clotha 

2 large dish-pans 

Dish-mop 

Metal dish-cloth 



Wire dish-drainer 

Soap-shaker 

Sink-strainer 

Soap-dish 

2 asbestos holders 

2 asbestos mats 

Bread-and-cake box 

Scales 

Can-opener 

Corkscrew 

Scissors 

Large salt-shaker 

Large pepper-shaker 



PREPARING AND MIXING UTENSILS 



Bread-board 

Rolling-pin 

Flour-sifter 

2 mixing bowls — large and small 

Measuring-cup 

Set of measuring-spoons 

Wire egg-beater 

Dover egg-beater 

Lemon-squeezer 

Potato-ricer 

Grater 

Strainer 

Colander 

Food-chopper 

Small chopping-bowl and knife 



Doughnut-cutter 

Biscuit-cutter 

Cookie-cutter 

Apple-corer 

2 tablespoons 

2 enamelled mixing-spoons 

Wooden cake-spoon 

2 teaspoons 

Vegetable-knife 

Palette-knife 

Bread-knife 

Grapefruit-knife 

2 forks 

Long-handled meat-fork 



COOKING UTENSILS 



Teakettle 

Coffee percolator 

Double-boiler 

Teapot 

Steel frying-pan with cover 

Enamelled frying-pan 

3 covered saucepans — small, 

medium, and large 
Steamer 
Roasting-pan 
Broiler 
Iron frjdng-kettle 



2 covered baking-dishes or cas- 
seroles — small and medium- 
sized 

2 small individual baking-dishes 
Bread-pan 

Cake-pan with centre tube 

3 layer-cake pans 
Pie-pan 
Muffin-pan 
Griddle 

Perforated spoon 
Omelette-turner 



C4J 



INTRODUCTORY 



STAPLE SUPPLIES 



Flour 

Granulated BUgar 

Pulverized sugar 

Brown sugar 

Tea 

Coftee 

Cocoa 

Rice 

Tapioca 

Oatmeal 

Com-meal 

Dried beans 

Salt 

Pepper 

Baking-powder 

Soda 

Corn-starch 

Vinegar 



Molasses 

Chocolate 

Vanilla 

Cinnamon 

Clove 

Nutmeg 

Mustard 

Paprika 

Gelatine (granulated) 

Raisins 

Potatoes 

Onions 

Butter 

Eggs 

Milk 

Cream 

Lard 

Olive-oil . 



To he kept in the 
ice-box 



HANDLING THE RECIPE 

In preparing to cook, start with a clean and clear 
kitchen-table. Then set out the various utensils called 
for in the recipe to be followed, and see that you have 
conveniently at hand all the materials that will be re- 
quired. In turning to the shelves or cupboard for small 
amounts of staple materials — sugar, flour, salt, etc. — place 
the receptacles back immediately where they came from 
after the material needed for the recipe has been taken 
out. Do not confuse and hinder your operations by 
having the work-table strewn with cans and jars and 
dishes that properly belong upon the shelves. Have a 
place for everything, and keep everything in its place. 

With the utensils placed on the table, and the ma- 
terials either set out or ready at hand, glance through the 
recipe and make a mental note of the different processes 
and stages involved. This will enable you to economize 

[5] 



INTRODUCTORY 

your time and movements, and to work intelligently 
toward a final result that is always clearly in view. 

If the recipe to be used requires boili&g water, place 
the teakettle over the fire before starting the other 
operations. 

In the intervals between the different stages, if there 
is time, clear up your table and wash such utensils al- 
ready used as will not be required again. Where several 
things are being cooked simultaneously, or nearly so, this 
may not be possible; but it is always desirable in the in- 
terests of cleanliness and economy. 

Do not forget that, with very few exceptions, the 
recipes in this book are planned to serve two persons only. 
If more than two persons must be served, the amounts 
of the various materials and usually the cooking time 
should be increased proportionately beyond the amounts 
and the time stated in the recipes. 



DIRECTIONS FOR MEASURING 

Successful results in cookery are in large part dependent 
upon the exact measurement of materials. Do not at- 
tempt to cook without the aid of a standard measuring- 
cup, clearly marked for the half, third, and quarter cups; 
and a set of standard measuring-spoons, consisting of a 
tablespoon, half-tablespoon, teaspoon, half-teaspoon, and 
quarter-teaspoon. Measure everjrthing in these utensils, 
and in these only. 

Level measurements are called for in all the recipes in 
this book. Every reference to a "cup" of material 
means a level cupful; every reference to a "spoon" means 
a level spoonful. Fill the cup or spoon with the material 
to be measured, then with a palette or other straight-edged 
knife scrape off all the material that is not actually con- 

[6] 



INTRODUCTORY 

tained in the cup or in the bowl of the spoon. These re- 
marks apply of course only to dry materials, as liquids 
are bound to level themselves. 

Butter, to be measured accurately, must be soft enough 
to be pressed down into the cup or spoon; if too hard to 
be managed in this way, it should be heated slightly be- 
fore measuring. In measuring flour for the cake recipes, 
the flour should be sifted directly into the measuring- 
cup; in other words, it should be measured after sifting, 
rather than before. 

Keep the measuring utensils — the measuring-cup, 
measuring-spoons, and palette-knife — always conveniently 
at hand in cooking. They will be required in the case of 
most of the recipes contained in this book, and to econ- 
omize space they are not included in the list of utensils 
given at the head of the various recipes. 

REGULATING THE HEAT 

While electricity is perhaps the ideal cooking medium, 
the majority of households are still dependent upon gas; 
and in the preparation of this book it has been assumed 
that the cooking will be done upon a gas-range. How- 
ever, in nearly all cases the directions given may be suc- 
cessfully followed no matter what fuel or kind of stove is 
used, although the problem of heat-regulation is much 
more easily controlled with gas than with coal or wood. 
Important as this problem is, only a few rather rough 
suggestions for dealing with it satisfactorily can be given 
here. Actual experience is the only trustworthy guide. 
* In general, it may be said that the amateur cook comes 
to grief far more often through using too much rather 
than too little heat. Very seldom, if ever, is the full 
heating, capacity of an oven or a surface burner required 

1:7} 



INTRODUCTORY 

in cooking anjrthing. In preparing to cook, it is some- 
times necessary to secure the maximum temperature in 
the shortest possible time; and in such a case the burners 
may of course be turned on full. But during the actual 
cooking process, it is seldom indeed that the best results 
will not be achieved with a somewhat reduced heat. 

The terms "slow oven," "moderate oven," and "hot 
oven," which are used in this and practically all other 
cook-books, do not readily lend themselves to exact 
definition. Roughly speaking, for a "slow oven" the 
burners are turned on only about one-quarter of their 
full capacity; for a "moderate oven," about one-half full; 
and for a "hot oven," about three-quarters full. Again 
roughly speaking, a "slow oven" is one which feels warm 
but not hot to the hand; a "moderate oven" feels hot, 
but still not uncomfortably so even if the hand is held in 
the oven for several seconds; a "hot oven" feels so hot 
that the hand must be immediately withdrawn. The 
most improved gas-ranges now have oven-gauges which 
may be set so as to regulate these three temperatures 
automatically; but in the absence of such a device, the 
above suggestions are about all that can be offered until 
experience shows the way. In nearly all cases the oven 
should be lighted ten of fifteen minutes before it is actu- 
ally needed. 

In boiling liquids over a flame, it is often desirable to 
have the fullest possible flame in order that the boiling- 
point may be quickly reached. As soon as that point is 
reached, however, the flame should be at once reduced to 
the lowest point at which the boiling process will still con- 
tinue. Otherwise, there will be a waste both of the 
liquid in evaporation and of the fuel. It is sometimes 
advisable to slip an asbestos mat between a saucepan or 
frying-pan and the flame, in order to reduce the cooking 
temperature and prevent scorching. 

[8] 



INTRODUCTORY 

A FEW DEFINITIONS 

The following is by no means intended as a complete 
glossary of cookery terms, but includes only those special 
words or phrases in commonest use the meaning of which 
it is necessary or desirable that the amateur cook should 
understand. 

Baking. The process of cooking by diffused heat in an 
oven. 

Basting. The process of moistening roasting meat of 
any kind, to prevent burning, by dipping up the liquid 
from the roasting-pan with a large spoon and pouring it 
over the surface of the meat from time to time during 
the roasting. 

Beating. The method by which cooking materials, 
either singly or in combination, are put into quick and 
constant motion, being turned over and over, and the 
under part brought continually to the surface. Unlike 
the "stirring" process, in "beating" a large amount of 
air is combined and enclosed with the material that is 
beaten. 

Boiling. The process of cooking food in boiling water. 

Broiling. The process of cooking meats by direct con- 
tact with the fife or with a heated surface, either on top 
of the stove or in the oven. 

Creaming. As applied to butter, and to mixtures in 
which butter is the chief ingredient, this denotes the 
process of rubbing, pressing, and stirring the butter or 
butter mijcture with a wooden spoon until it becomes soft 
and thoroughly pliable. In cold weather, the bowl in 
which butter is "creamed" should be warmed before the 
butter is put into it. 

[9] 



INTRODUCTORY 

Cutting and Folding. The process by which beaten 
egg-whites are ordinarily combined with other materials. 
It consists in placing the egg-whites and the other ma- 
terials in a bowl, and then with a large spoon cutting 
slowly down through and through the entire contents of 
the bowl, lifting and turning the spoon at frequent in- 
tervals, and repeating these motions until all the materials 
are combined. This process is necessary in order that 
the air which has been combined and enclosed with the 
egg-whites in beating shall not escape — as it would do if 
the ordinary methods of mixing were followed. 

Dredging. The process of sprinkling flour or other 
powder-like material over anything that is to be or has 
been cooked. 

Prying. The process of cooking by direct immersion 
in some form of fat heated to a very high temperature. 

Lukewarm^ Moderately warm; neither decidedly hot 
nor decidedly cold. 

Mincing. The process of cutting or chopping anjrthing 
into small bits. 

Mixing. Any method by which materials are com- 
bined in cookery, whether by "stirring," by "beating," or 
by "cutting and folding." 

Parboil. To boil partially; a method commonly fol- 
lowed with some kinds of meat, either to preserve it un- 
til ready for the final cooking process or to render it 
more tender for cooking in the ordinary way. 

Roasting. Strictly speaking, the process of cooking 
over a clear fire, with some form of metal reflector to con- 
centrate the heat on the material that is being cooked. 
In common usage, however, there is little clear differen- 
tiation between "roasting" and "baking." 

[10] 



INTRODUCTORY 

Searing. As a method of closing the pores of meat, and 
thus retaining the juices while cooking, this consists in 
bringing the surface of the meat in direct contact for a 
moment or two with the flame or with some very hot 
metal surface. 

Shredding. The process of pulling or breaking any- 
thing into very small pieces. 

Simmer. A liquid "simmers" when it is kept at the 
stage just before boiling begins — the stage at which 
small bead-like bubbles appear on the bottom of the 
utensil and rise slowly to the surface of the liquid. 

Singe. As commonly used in cookery, to burn off the 
minute "pin-feathers" of a chicken or other fowl before 
cooking, by holding it for a moment directly in a flame 
and turning it constantly so that the enth-e surface 
comes in contact with the flame. 

Steaming. The process of cooking by steam from boil- 
ing water. This requires a special form of utensil. 

Steep. To soak or bathe for a considerable time in 
water — ordinarily hot, or at least warm, water — con- 
tained in a covered utensil. 

Stewing. The process of cooking food in a small 
amount of hot water kept just below the boiling-point. 
"Stewing" requires a longer time than "boiling," but the 
cooking is more thorough and more of the actual nutri- 
ment is retained. 

Stirring. As a means of blending various materials, or 
of preventing liquids from burning while cooking, this 
consists of circular motions made through the material 
with a spoon, the motions being gradually widened and 
contracted during the process, with the spoon kept in 
continual contact with the bottom of the utensil. 

[11] 



INTRODUCTORY 

Threading. When sugar and water has reached a cer- 
tain stage in the boiling process, a few drops poured from 
the end of a spoon will" form into a thin hair-like thread. 
This is known as the "threading" stage. 



SOME USEFUL SUGGESTIONS 

Warm food should never be put in the ice-box, but 
should stand outside until it becomes cool. 

Two or three yards of clean white cheese-cloth should 
always be kept in the kitchen. It will be found useful 
for many purposes. 

In using a double-boiler, it is important to see that the 
lower compartment is always kept about half full of 
boiling water. As the water boils away, more should be 
added from time to time. 

Use a small soft brush or a piece of tissue-paper wadded 
up into a soft ball for buttering baking-dishes. If the 
pans are heated slightly just before buttering, the proc- 
ess is made much easier. 

Twenty minutes or so before meal-time, the dishes re- 
quired for serving hot food should be placed on the warm- 
ing-shelf or in the warming-compartment of the stove, so 
that they will be thoroughly warm when the meal is 
ready to serve. 

The tissue-paper wrappings of oranges, grapefruit, etc., 
should always be straightened out and placed on a hook 
in the kitchen, for use in draining fried food, in wiping 
out greasy pans and dishes before washing, and in numer- 
ous other ways. 

A Jar or bowl in which to pour all fat and drippings left 
from cooking meat, especially bacoq and other forms of 
pork, should be kept conveniently at hand. This fat 

[12] 



INTRODUCTORY 

may be used for frying eggs, potatoes, etc., and may also 
be used instead of butter in making muffins and in greas- 
ing muffin-pans. 

Bits of stale bread and crackers should always be saved, 
and from time to time rolled out on a bread-board into 
crumbs. These crumbs are useful in many ways. When 
ready to use them, they may be "buttered" if desired, 
by adding one tablespoon of melted butter and a quarter- 
teaSpoon of salt to a half-cup of crumbs, and mixing well 
together. 

To separate the white from the yolk of an egg when 
each is to be beaten separately, crack the shell, then pull 
the shell apart and pour the contents back and forth from 
one half of the shell to the other, allowing the white to 
drop off gradually into a bowl while still keeping the yolk 
in the shell. When nothing is left in the shell but the 
yolk, this should then be put into another bowl. If the 
white is beaten first, it will not be necessary to wash the 
beater before beating the yolk. 

When frying anything in "deep fat," from two to three 
pounds of fat should be used, and the kettle containing 
the fat should be set over a slow fire at least ten minutes 
before the frying process begins. The fat must be care- 
fully watched and handled, as a serious accident can easily 
be caused by its spilling or catching fire. It should never 
be smoking hot for cooking; tests should be made from 
time to time with small bits of the material to be fried, 
and the heat regulated on the basis of these tests. The 
moment all the material has been fried, the kettle should 
be taken off the fire and set in some safe place to cool for 
a few minutes. Then pour out the fat through a fine 
strainer or piece of cheese-cloth into a bowl or jar kept 
for this purpose. After it is thoroughly cold, the fat 
should be placed in the ice-box. 

[13] 




SOUP STOCK 

MATERIALS 



UTENSILS 



IJ^ pounds veal 
114 pounds beef 
1 onion — sliced 
6 cloves 

1 bay-leaf 

2 sprigs parsley 

2 celery tops 

3 quarts cold water 



Large covered saucepan 

Vegetable-knife 

Large spoon 

Colander 

Bowl 

Quart measure 



1. 



2. 



DIRECTIONS 



Put all the materials in a saucepan, cover the pan, 
place it on the fire, and bring slowly to the boiling- 
point. 

With a large spoon, skim off the foam and other sur- 
face deposits. 

Reduce the heat, cover the saucepan tightly, and let 
simmer three hours. 

Take from the fire, pour the contents of the saucepan 
through a colander into a bowl, and set the bowl in 
a cool place overnight. 

In the morning, remove the cake of fat from the sur- 
face of the Soup Stock, and place the bowl in the 
ice-box until needed from time to time in the prep- 
aration of soup, gravy, etc. 
[14] 



SOUP STOCK— Continued 

REMARKS 

The knuckle or shin-bone of beef and veal is suitable 
for making Soup Stock. The meat and bone should be 
cut by the butcher into small pieces. 

Soup Stock is the basis for many kinds of soup, and is 
sometimes used in making gravy or sauce. 



BOUILLON 

Bouillon consists of Soup Stock (page 14), with season- 
ing added. Use IJ^ cups of the stock, J^ teaspoon of 
salt, and a little pepper. Place in a small saucepan and 
bring slowly to the boiling-point. Serve in cups, either 
hot or cold, with Toasted Crackers (page 20) or Crou- 
tons (page 20). To make Tomato Bouillon, add H cup 
of tomato juice to the Soup Stock. 



CONSOMME 

Use 1J4 cups of Soup Stock (page 14), 1 teaspoon of 
salt, and a little pepper. Add to this }4 cup of either 
fine-chopped cooked vegetables, cooked rice, or macaroni. 
Place in a small saucepan, and bring slowly to the boil- 
ing-point. Serve hot with either plain or Cheese Crack- 
ers (page 20). 



[15] 



VEGETABLE SOUP 



MATERIALS 

2 cups Soup Stock (page 14) 

1 small carrot 

1 small onion 

1 small turnip 

1 small potato 

i4 cup chopped cabbage 

J^ cup chopped celery 

1 tomato — afresh or canned 

J^ tablespoon chopped parsley 

l}/i teaspoons salt 

Pepper 



UTENSILS 

Medium-sized covered sauce- 
pan 
Vegetable-knife 
Small saucepan 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Peel all the vegetables, and cut them into small pieces. 

2. Boil the carrot and turnip one-half hour in a small 

saucepan, adding boiling water from time to time 
to make up for evaporation. Drain off the water. 

3. Put all the materials in a medium-sized saucepan, 

cover the pan, place it on the fire, and let simmer 
slowly for one hoiu-. 

REMARKS 

It is not practicable to make this particular soup in a 
smaller quantity. 



[16] 



CREAM OF VEGETABLE SOUP 

The general method described below may be followed 
for making any form of creamed vegetable soup — ^aspara- 
gus, cauliflower, celery, corn, green-pea, potato, tomato, 
spinach, or onion. The vegetable used may be either 
canned or fresh; in the latter case, however, it must be 
previously cooked. 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup White Sauce No. 1 Colander or potato-ricer 

M cup vegetable pulp Bowl 

Potato-masher 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Make White Sauce No. 1 according to directions on 

page 150. 

2. Prepare the vegetable pulp by rubbing the canned or 

cooked vegetable through a colander with a potato- 
masher, or pressing it through the potato-ricer. 

3. Add the vegetable pulp to the White Sauce, and mix. 

4. Place the saucepan over the fire until the soup is 

thoroughly heated. 

REMARKS 

In making cream of tomato soup, a speck of soda must 
be added to the tomato to prevent the latter from ciu-dling 
the milk. 

For cream of potato soup, omit flour fiom the White 
Sauce, and add a little onion juice and chopped parsley 
for added flavor. 



[17] 



OYSTER STEW 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

]/i pint oyBters Strainer 

2 cups milk Small saucepan 

1 tablespoon flour Medium-sized saucepan 

1 tablespoon butter 

1 teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Pour the oysters into a strainer, allowing the liquid to 

drain into a small saucepan. 

2. While the oysters are still in the strainer, pour cold 

water through them. 

3. Put the oysters into the saucepan with their liquid. 

4. Place the saucepan over a very low fire, heating until 

the oysters begin to curl around the edges, then 
take the saucepan from the fire. 

5. Put the butter in the medium-sized saucepan and 

allow it to melt over the fire. 

6. Add the flour, salt, and pepper to the melted butter, 

and mix thoroughly. 

7. Add the milk slowly to this mixture, stirring con- 

stantly, and continue heating until it boils. 

8. Add. the oj^ters and their liquid, and bring the whole 

to a boil. 

REMARKS 

As soon as oysters arrive from the store they should 
be poured into a bowl and put in the ice-box until time 
to prepare and serve them. 



[18] 



CREOLE SOUP 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 tablespoon green pepper Vegetable-knife 

1 tablespoon red pepper Medium-sized covered sauce- 

1 tablespoon flour pan 

1 tablespoon butter Strainer 

1^ cups Soup Stock (page 14) Bowl 

1 cup tomato pulp 

14 cup corn 

1 teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Chop or cut the peppers into very small bits. 

2. Melt the butter in a saucepan. 

3. Add the flour and chopped peppers, and mix thor- 

oughly. 

4. Add the Soup Stock and tomato pulp slowly, stirring 

constantly until the boiling-point is reached. 

5. Reduce the heat, cover the saucepan, and let simmer 

for twenty minutes. 

6. Strain into a bowl, season, and add the corn. 

7. Replace in the saucepan, reheat, and serve at once. 

REMARKS 

Canned corn is ordinarily used for this recipe. If 
fresh corn is used, it must first be boiled, and then cut 
from the cob- 



[19] 



SOUP ACCESSORIES 



Toasted Crackers 



Put J^ teaspoon of butter in the centre of each cracker, 
and bake on a pie-plate until slightly brown. Use un- 
sweetened crackers for this purpose. 

Cheese Crackers 

Sprinkle grated cheese over the crackers, arrange them 
on a pie-plate, and bake until the cheese melts. 

Croutons 

Cut stale bread into J^-inch squares, and brown either 
in the oven or in melted butter in the frying-pan. The 
croutons should be placed on the table in a dish or bowl, 
with a spoon for serving. 



[20] 




FISH BROILED 

MATERIALS 

Fish weighing from 2 to 4 pounds 

Salt 

Pepper 

Butter 

Lemon 

Pimento or parsley 



IN OVEN 

UTENSILS 

Broiler or shallow baking- 
pan 
Sharp knife 
Pancake-turner 
Long-handled fork 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Remove the head and tail, wash the fish thoroughly 

and split it lengthwise down the back. 

2. Grease the broiler or baking-pan thoroughly, open 

the fish, and place it flat on the broiler or baking- 
pan with the skin side down. 

3. Place the broiler or baking-pan in the lower oven, 

close to the flame, and cook for five minutes. 

4. Reduce the heat by turning the gas down or lowering 

the rack of the oven. 

5. Cook from twenty to forty minutes, depending upon 

. the weight of the fish. 

6. With a long-handled fork and a pancake-turner, care- 

fully lift the fish onto the hot platter, sprinkle the 
fish with salt and pepper, put a few bits of butter 
on it, squeeze a little lemon juice over it, and gar- 
nish the platter with sprigs of parsley. 
1:21 J 



FISH BROILED IN FRYING-PAN 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 pound small fish or fish-steaks Plate for crumbs 

J^ cup com-meal or bread crumbs Covered frjdng-pan 

a cup lard or drippings Long-handled fork 

Salt Colander and paper 
Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Wash the fish, dry it, and roll it in corn-meal or 

bread crumbs. 

2. Melt the lard or drippings in a frjong-pan over the 

fire. 

3. When the fat begins to smoke, place the fish in it. 

4. Reduce the heat, cover the pan, and cook slowly for 

five minutes. 

5. Remove the cover of the pan and brown the fish on 

both sides. 

6. Put the fish in soft crumpled paper in the colander, 

sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve as soon as 
possible. 

REMARKS 

Small fish cooked in this way should be split, but the 
heads and tails need not be removed. 

A little additional fat may be added during the cooking 
process, if necessary to prevent burning. 



[22] 



BAKED FISH 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

Fish weighing 2 pounds or more Large needle, with thread 

Stuffing Baking-pan 

6 slices salt pork Large spoon 

Salt 

Pepper 

Bread crumbs 

Flour 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Make the stuffing in accordance with directions on 

page 24. 

2. Wash the fish, stuff it, and sew it up. 

3. Place slices of salt pork on the bottom of a baking- 

pan, and lay the fish on these slices. 

4. Sprinkle the fish with salt, pepper, flour, and bread 

crumbs, and lay two slices of salt pork on the top 
of the fish. 

5. Pour one cup of hot water in the pan around the fish, 

and place the pan in a moderately hot oven. 

6. Cook fifteen minutes to each pound of fish, basting 

often. 

REMARKS 

It is taken for granted that the fish will be cleaned by 
the dealer. 

The head and tail may be removed if desired. 

Serve with gravy made in accordance with directions 
on page 25. 



{23} 



STUFFING FOR BAKED FISH 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

14 cup bread crumbs Saucepan 

14 cup cracker crumbs Grater 

4 tablespoons butter Vegetable-knife 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

1 teaspoon grated onion 

J^ teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Melt the butter in a saucepan. 

2. Add the bread and cracker crumbs to the melted but- 

ter, and then add all the other materials, mixing 
thoroughly. 

3. Add boiling water, stirring in a very little at a time, 

until the mixture is sufficiently moist to hold to- 
gether well. 

REMARKS 

In addition to the materials above-mentioned, any or 
all of the following may be added,, if desired : 

1 teaspoon sweet marjoram 
Few grains celery salt 
1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
1 tablespoon capers 
4 olives 
teaspoon lemon juice 



[24} 



GRAVY FOR BAKED FISH 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 tablespoon flour Small saucepan 

1 tablespoon butter Strainer 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
1 teaspoon lemon juice 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Melt the butter in a saucepan. 

2. Add the flour to the butter, and mix thoroughly. 

3. Strain the liquid from, the pan in which the fish was 

baked into a measuring-cup, and add enough hot 
water to fill the cup 

4. Add this liquid to the butter-and-flour mixture, stir- 

ring constantly over the fire until it thickens and 
boils. 

5. Add the Worcestershire sauce and lemon juice. 



[25 1 



BOILED FISH 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

Fish weighing from 2 to 4 pounds Large covered saucepan 

Colander 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Wash the fish, cut off the head and tail, and tie or 

sew the fish in a piece of clean white cheese-cloth. 

2. Put the fish in a large saucepan of rapidly boihng 

water, to which a tablespoon of vinegar has been 
added. 

3. Reduce the heat at once, and let simmer for thirty 

minutes if the fish weighs 2 pounds, and fifteen 
minutes longer for each additional pound. 

4. Lift the fish out of the saucepan, and put it into a 

colander to drain. 

5. When thoroughly drained open the cloth, lift the 

fish out by the sides of the cloth, and roll it care- 
fully onto a hot serving platter. 

REMARKS 
Serve with Hollandaise Sauce (page 32). 



[26] 



CREAMED FISH 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup cold fish-flakes Plate 

1 cup White Sauce No. 2 2 forks 

DIRECTIONS 

1. If left-over fish or canned fish is used, shred it into 

small pieces with two forks. 

2. Make White Sauce No. 2 in accordance with dfrec- 

tions on page 150. 

3. Add the fish to the White Sauce in the saucepan, set 

the saucepan over the fire, and heat to the boiling- 
point, stirring slowly to prevent scorching. 

REMARKS 

Serve on strips of buttered toast. 

If desired, the creamed fish may be put in a baking- 
dish, covered with buttered bread crumbs, and baked for 
fifteen minutes in a moderate oven, or until browned. 



[27] 



FRIED OYSTERS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

}/i pint oysters Strainer 

1 egg Bowl 

Salt Dover beater 

Pepper Fr3dng-kettle 

Bread crumbs Long-handled fork 

Fat for frying Colander with paper 

1. Put the oysters in a strainer, let the liquid drain 

away, and then pour cold water through the 
oysters in the strainer. 

2. Beat the egg in a small bowl. 

3. Roll each oyster in the bread crumbs, then dip it in 

the beaten egg, and roll again in the crumbs. 

4. Fry the oysters in hot fat until well browned, putting 

each oyster as it is fried on soft paper in a colander. 



[28] 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

14 pint oysters Baking-dish 

1 cup White Sauce No. 2 Strainer 
1 cup buttered cracker crumbs 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Make White Sauce No. 2, according to directions on 

page 150. 

2. Put the oysters into a strainer, draining the hquid 

into the White Sauce in the saucepan. 

3. Pour cold water through the oysters in the strainer. 

4. Mix the oysters and the White Sauce together. 

5. Put half the mixture into a baking-dish, cover with 

^2 cup of the cracker crumbs, add the remainder 
of the oysters, and cover with the rest of the crumbs. 

6. Bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes, or imtil 

browned. 

REMARKS 
See Remarks under Oyster Stew (page 18). 



[29] 



CREAMED SALT CODFISH 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

J^ pound salt codfish 2 forks 

1 cup White Sauce No. 2 Strainer 

Tablespoon 

Saucepan 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Soak the fish overnight in cold water. 

2. Shred the fish with two forks, removing the skin and 

bones. 

3. Put the shredded fish in a saucepan of boiling water, 

reduce the heat, and let simmer gently for ten 
minutes. 

4. Pour the cooked fish into a strainer, and with a spoon 

press out all water. 

5. Make White Sauce No. 2, in accordance with direc- 

tions on page 150. 

6. Add the fish to the White Sauce, mix well, and reheat. 

REMARKS 

Creamed Codfish is usually served on a platter garnished 
with bits of buttered toast, slices of hard-boiled egg, or 
slices of lemon. 



[30] 



CODFISH BALLS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

a pound salt codfish 2 forks 

3 or 4 potatoes Saucepan 

1 egg Bowl 

% teaspoon salt Dover beater 

Fat for frying Strainer 

Bread-board 
Colander with paper 
Frying-pan 
Perforated spoon 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Soak the fish overnight in cold water. 

2. Boil and mash the potatoes in accordance with direc- 

tions on pages 66 and 68. 

3. Remove all skin and bones from the fish, and shred 

it with two forks. 

4. Put the shredded fish into a saucepan of boiling 

water, reduce the heat, and let simmer gently for 
ten minutes. 

5. Remove the saucepan from the fire, pour the con- 

tents through a strainer, and with a spoon press 
out all the water from the fish. 

6. Measure the fish in a cup, and add it to twice as 

much mashed potato as there is fish. 

7. Beat the egg and add it with the salt to the fish and 

potato, mixing the whole thoroughly. 

8. Sprinkle flour on the bread-board, and put the mix- 

ture a spoonful at a time on the board, rolling 
or moulding each spoonful into a ball. 

9. Fry the baUs in plenty of hot fat m a frying-pan. 
10. When the balls are browned, lift them from the fat 

with a perforated spoon, and place them on soft 
crumpled paper in the colander. 



[31] 



SAUCES FOR FISH 

Hollandaise Sauce 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 tablespoons butter Bowl 

2 tablespoons flour Dover beater 

2 eggs (yolks only) Double-boiler 

2 tablespoons vinegar or lemon juice Tablespoon 

a teaspoon salt 

J^ teaspoon paprika 

Few grains cayenne 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Beat the 2 egg-yolks in a bowl. 

2. Melt the butter in the upper part of the double- 

boiler, placing this part directly over the fire. 

3. Add the flour to the melted butter, and mix well. 

4. Add ^2 cup of hot water, and stir constantly over 

the fire until the boiling-point is reached. 

5. Pour this mixture into the bowl with the beaten egg- 

yolks, stirring together well. 

6. Pour the mixture from the bowl into the upper part 

of the double-boiler, set this part into the lower 
part, and place the boiler over the fire. 

7. Beat the mixture with the dover beater, while cook- 

ing, until it becomes fairly thick. 

8. Add the seasonings mentioned above. 

REMARKS 

One teaspoon of chopped parsley and J^ teaspoon of 
grated onion may be added with the other seasonings, if 
desked. 



[32} 



SAUCES FOR FISH— Continued 

Lemon Butter Sauce 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

4 tablespoons butter Tablespoon 

1 tablespoon lemon juice Bowl 

1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley Knife 

Lemon-sgueezer 

DIRECTIONS 

1. "Cream" the butter. 

2. Add the lemon juice slowly to the butter while stirring, 

then add the chopped parsley, and mix thoroughly. 

REMARKS 

Serve with boiled or baked fish. All the sauce may be 
placed on the hot whole fish when the latter is ready for 
serving, or it may be added to the individual portions at 
the table. 



[33] 




ROAST MEAT 

Wipe the meat with a piece of cheese-cloth wrung out 
in cold water, place it in a roasting pan, and rub salt over 
the surface of the meat. Place the pan in a hot oven 
and cook for ten minutes. Then reduce the heat and 
pour a cup of cold water over the roast. Baste the roast 
with liquid from the pan every fifteen minutes while it 
is in the oven. 

Beef, mutton, and lamb should roast in a moderate 
oven fifteen minutes for every pound of meat in the 
roast. Veal and pork should roast in a slow oven thirty 
minutes for each pound. 

If a self-basting pan is used for roasting, the cover 
should be fitted tightly over the lower part of the pan 
after the cold water has been poured over the roast, and 
then need not be removed during the cooking. 

Peeled potatoes, boiled for ten minutes, may be put 
in the pan with the roast during the last three-quarters 
of an hour that it is in the oven, and then served on the 
same platter with the roast. 

Pork (which should only be used in cold weather) is 
usually served with baked apples or apple-sauce. 

[34] 



GRAVY FOR ROAST MEAT 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

a cup liquid from roasting-pan Large spoon 

}i cup flour Bowl 

1 teitspoon salt 
Pepper 

2 cups hot water 

DIRECTIONS 

1. After the meat has been taken from the roasting-pan, 

pour off into a bowl all but about J^ cup of the 
liquid in the pan. 

2. With a large spoon, rub and mix the flour into the 

liquid in the pan. 

3. Put the pan over the fire, slowly add the hot water 

while stirring constantly, and allow the mixture to 
cook imtil it thickens and boils. 

4. Add salt and pepper. 



C35] 



BROILED STEAKS OR CHOPS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

Any of the following: 
Porterhouse steak Broiler or frying-pan 

Sirloin steak Meat-fork 

Filet of beef, sliced 
Pork tenderloins 
Mutton, lamb, or pork chops 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Heat the broiler or frying-pan, and grease it with a 

piece of fat cut from the meat. 

2. Wipe the meat with a piece of clean damp cloth, and 

put it on the hot frying-pan or broiler. 

3. After cooking for two minutes, turn the meat over. 

This will sear the surfaces and hold the juices in 
the meat. 

4. Reduce the heat, and cook from fifteen to thirty min- 

utes, depending upon the thickness of the meat, 
turning every five minutes. ,. 

5. Shake a little salt and pepper on both sides of the 

meat just before it is done, and add a few bits of 
butter when ready to serve. 

REMARKS 

Pork requires a longer period of cooking and a lower 
temperature than either beef, mutton, or lamb. Cook 
pork chops or tenderloins at least three-quarters of an 
hour; and if a frying-pan is used instead of a broiler, cover 
the pan immediately after searing the meat and reducing 
the temperature. 



[36] 



VEAL CUTLETS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 



Slice of veal }^-inch thick 


Knife 


Bread crumbs 




Saucepan 


i4 cup fat for frying 




Fork 


legg 




Plate 


IH tablespoons flour 




Bowl 


114 tablespoons butter 




Dover beater 


3^ teaspoon salt 




Frying-pan 


Pepper 




Tablespoon 




DIRECTIONS 



1. Cut the veal into pieces of suitable size for individual 

portions. 

2. Put the pieces of veal into a saucepan, barely cover 

them with boiling water, set the pan over a low 
firfe, and simmer about thirty minutes or until the 
veal is tender. 

3. Take the veal from the saucepan, increase the heat, 

and let the hquid in the saucepan boil down until 
only one cup remains. 

4. Pour the liquid from the saucepan into a cup. 

5. Melt the butter in the saucepan, add the flour, salt, 

and pepper, and stir together. 

6. Add half the liquid in which the veal has cooked, 

and stir over the fire until the mixture begins to 
thicken. 

7. Add the remainder of the liquid, and stir until the 

mixture boils, then take the saucepan from the fire. 

8. Beat the egg in a bowl, dip the pieces of veal in the 

beaten egg, then roll them in crumbs, and fry in 
hot fat in the frying-pan, browning well on both 



Put the veal on a hot platter, and pour the hot gravy 
from the saucepan over it. 

[37] 



VEAL LOAF 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 poTinds veal Mbdng-bowl 

14 pound ham Tablespoon 

14 pound salt pork Grater 

}/i cup bread crumbs Lemon-squeezer 

Ji cup milk Small bowl 

2 tablespoons butter Dover beater 

}4 teaspoon salt Small saucepan 

j/i teaspoon paprika Bread-pan 

^ teaspoon onion juice 

J^ lemon 

legg 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Have the veal, ham, and salt pork finely minced by 

the butcher. 

2. Put the bread crumbs in the mixing-bowl, add the 

milk, and let stand ten minutes. 

3. Squeeze the juice from the lemon and grate the sur- 

face from the rind. 

4. Put the meat into the mixing-bowl, stirring it with 

the crumbs and milk. 
6. Add the salt, paprika, onion, and lemon, and mix well. 

6. Melt the butter in a small saucepan and add it to 

the mixture in the bowl. 

7. Beat the egg and add it to the mixture, stirring the 

whole thoroughly. 

8. Pack the mixture into a buttered bread-pan, and 

bake one and one-half hours in a slow oven. 

9. Turn the loaf out on a platter, and allow it to cool 

before serving. 



[38] 



BAKED HAM 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 whole ham — smoked Scales 

2 tablespoons brown sugar Large covered kettle 

3 tablespoons fine crumbs Sharp knife 
12 cloves Roasting-pan 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Weigh the ham, and soak it overnight in cold water. 

2. When ready to cook it, wash the ham and trim off 

the hard skin near the end of the bone. 

3. Put the ham in a large kettle, cover it with cold water, 

put the kettle over the fire, and bring slowly to 
the boiling-point. 

4. Reduce the heat, cover the kettle, and let simmer 

gently until the ham is tender. This will require 
about thirty minutes of cooking for each pound. 

5. Remove the kettle from the fire, and let the ham 

cool in the water in which it has cooked. 

6. Take the ham from the kettle, and with a knife peel 

off the skin. 

7. Put the ham in a roasting-pan, sprinkle the sugar 

and crumbs over it, and press the cloves into its 
surface at intervals. Bake one hour in a slow oven. 

BROILED HAM 

1. Select a slice of ham about ^ of an inch thick, and 

soak it several hours or overnight in cold water. 

2. Pom* off the cold water, cover the ham with boiling 

water, and let it stand fifteen minutes. 

3. Pour off the hot water, and broil the ham in a frying- 

pan or on a broiler under the gas, turning the slice 
every few minutes and cooking slowly until it is 
well browned. 

[39] 



IRISH STEW 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 pound beef or mutton Meat-knife 

1 small onion Covered saucepan 

2 medium-sized potatoes Vegetable-knife 
Salt Tablespoon 
Pepper Small saucepan 
2 tablespoons flour 

i^ cup cream or milk 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Cut the meat in pieces about an inch and a half square. 

2. Put the meat in a saucepan, and cover with cold' 

water. 

3. Place the saucepan on the fire, and bring to the boil- 

ing-point. 

4. Reduce the heat, cover the saucepan, and let simmer 

gently for one hour, adding a little hot water from 
time to time if necessary. 
6. While the meat is simmering, peel the potatoes, cut 
them in quarters, and boil in the small saucepan 
for twenty minutes. 

6. Drain the water from the potatoes, and when the 

meat has simmered for an hour add the potatoes 
to it. 

7. Mix the flour with the cream or milk, and stir it into 

the stew. 

8. Add the salt and pepper, increase the heat, and let 

the stew boil quickly for a minute or two. 

REMARKS 

When the stew has simmered for an hour, there should 
be about 1 cup of liquid left in the saucepan. If more 
than that remains, pour off enough so as to leave only 
about 1 cup. 

[40] 



BEEF CASSEROLE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 pound round steak — cut thick Sharp knife 

li cup French Dressing (page 82) Frying-pan 

1 tablespoon butter Tablespoon 

1 onion — sliced Casserole 

1 carrot — sliced 

3 sprigs parsley — chopped 

2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups Soup Stock (page 14) or water 

2 potatoes 

2 tomatoes — afresh or canned 

1 teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Wipe the meat with a clean damp cloth, and cut it 

into pieces about 2 inches square. 

2. Put the meat into the casserole, pour the French 

Dressing over it, and let it stand several hours or 
overnight. 

3. Melt the butter in a hot frying-pan, place the pieces 

of meat in this and allow them to brown on all 



4. Empty the meat from the frying-pan into the cas- 

serole. 

5. Cook the onion, carrot, and parsley for about ten 

minutes in the frying-pan, adding a little butter 
if necessary to prevent burning. 

6. Stir the flour, salt, and pepper into the frying-pan 

with the vegetables, and cook until the flour 
browns, stirring constantly. 

7. Add the Soup Stock or hot water, a little at a time, 

stirring constantly, and cook until the mixture 
thickens and boils. 

8. Pour the contents of the frjdng-pan over the meat 

in the casserole, cover the casserole, and place it 
in a slow oven to cook for three hours. 
[41] 



BEEF CASSEROLE— Continued 

9. Peel the potatoes, cut them into small pieces, and 
brown them in the frying-pan with a little melted 
butter. 

10. Add the potato and tomato to the contents of the 

casserole at the beginning of the last half-hour of 
cooking. 

11. Remove the cover from the casserole and increase 

the heat during the last fifteen minutes of cooking. 

REMARKS 
Serve at table directly from the casserole. 



[42] 



BOILED CORNED BEEF 

1. Put 2 or 3 pounds of corned beef into a large sauce- 

pan, and cover with cold water. 

2. Put the saucepan over the fire, cover it, and allow 

the water to come slowly to a boil. 

3. After boiling for five minutes, remove the surface 

scum, reduce the heat, cover the pan, and simmer 
gently for about four hours or until the meat is 
tender. 

4. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and allow the 

meat to cool in the water in which it has cooked. 
The corned beef is now ready to slice and serve — 
with Horseradish Sauce (page 50) — or to use for 
hash. 



BOILED DINNER 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

Corned beef (2 or 3 pounds) Large covered saucepan 

2 or 3 potatoes Vegetable-knife 

^ small cabbage 

2 turnips 

3 or 4 small carrots 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Follow the directions above for boiling the beef. 

2. While the beef is boiling, wash and prepare the vege- 

tables. The potatoes, turnips, and carrots should 
be peeled, and the cabbage cut into two or three 
parts. 

3. After the beef has boiled three hours, put the cabbage 

and turnips in the water with it. Twenty minutes 
later add the potatoes and carrots. 

4. Continue boiling until the beef has cooked four hours, 

then drain off the water, put the beef on a hot 
platter, and arrange the vegetables around it. 
[43] 



CORNED-BEEF HASH 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

}4 pound boiled corned beef Chopping-bowl and knife 

2 or 3 potatoes Frying-pan 

j4 cup cream or milk 

M teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Peel and boil the potatoes in time to have them cold 

when needed. 

2. Chop the corned beef and potatoes separately in a 

chopping-bowl. 

3. Heat the frying-pan, and grease it well with butter. 

4. Measure equal parts of the chopped meat and po- 

tatoes into the frying-pan, add the cream or milk 
and the seasoning, and mix together well. 
6. Cover the frying-pan and let it remain on the fire 
until the hash is thoroughly heated. 

REMARKS 

Cold left-over beef, veal, mutton, or lamb may be used 
for hash, instead of corned beef, by following these direc- 
tions, but substituting Soup Stock (page 14) for the cream 
or milk and adding a little onion juice to the seasonings. 



C44} 



BROILED OR BAKED SAUSAGE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

J4 pound sausage meat, or Prying-pan or pie-pan 

14 pound link sausages Pancake-turner 

DIRECTIONS 

1. If the sausages are in skins, they should be washed, 

and the skins pricked at frequent intervals with a 
darning-needle. If sausage meat is used, it should 
be rolled or moulded into small balls or cakes. 

2. Place the sausage in a hot greased frying-pan directly 

over the fire, or in a pie-pan in a hot oven. 

3. Turn the sausage every few minutes, and when it be- 

gins to brown reduce the heat. Then cover the 
frying-pan or pie-pan, and cook twenty to thirty 
minutes, depending upon the size of the sausages 
or cakes. 



[45] 



BROILED LIVER AND BACON 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

H pound liver Knife 

4 strips bacon Bowl 

2 tablespoons flour Frying-pan 

Fork 

Tablespoon 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Cut the liver into small cutlets one-half inch thick, 

place the cutlets in a bowl, cover them with boiling 
water, and let them stand five minutes. 

2. Drain off the water, and remove the skin and veins 

from the liver. 

3. Put the strips of bacon in a hot frying-pan, and after 

cooking a few minutes place the liver in the pan 
with the bacon. 

4. Turn both liver and bacon often, and broil about 

five minutes or until well browned. 
6. Take the meat from the frying-pan, and mix two 

tablespoons of flour into the grease in the pan. 

When well blended, pour a cup of hot water into 

it, stirring constantly until it thickens and boils. 
6. Pour this gravy over the liver and bacon on a platter, 

or serve the gravy separately in a gravy-bowl. 



[46] 



CREAMED DRIED BEEF 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

yi pound dried beef Bowl 

1 cup White Sauce No. 2 Colander 



DIRECTIONS 

Remove the skin and fibre from the dried beef, and 
pull the beef apart into small bits. 
. Put the beef in a bowl, cover it with cold water, and 
let it soak ten minutes or more. 

Drain off the water from the beef by pouring through 
a colander. 
. Make White Sauce No. 2 in accordance with direc- 
tions on page 150. 

Add the dried beef to the White Sauce in the sauce- 
pan, and let it heat slowly to the boiling-point. 

REMARKS 
Serve on sKces or strips of buttered toast. 



[47] 



MEAT CROQUETTES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup cooked meat (veal, chicken, or Mixing-bowl 

lamb) — ^finely chopped Spoon 

i4 cup White Sauce No. 3 Plate 

Bread crumbs Small bowl 

1 egg Dover beater 

1 teaspoon onion juice Frying-kettle 

J^ teaspoon salt Colander and paper 

Pepper Meat-fork 
Fat for frying 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Make White Sauce No. 3, in accordance witli direc- 

tions on page 150. 

2. Put the chopped meat in a mixing-bowl and add the 

White Sauce to it, mixing well together. 

3. Stir in the onion juice, salt, and pepper, and set the 

bowl in a cool place to chill. 

4. Cover a plate with bread crumbs, put 1 tablespoon 

of the cold meat mixture on this, and roll it about 
imtil it is coated with crumbs, then mould it into 
a ball or cylinder with the tips of the fingers. Re- 
peat this operation until all the meat mixture has 
been shaped. 
6. Beat the egg in a bowl, dip each croquette into the 
beaten egg, and then roll it once more in the bread 
crumbs. 

6. Melt the fat in an iron kettle, and allow it to become 

very hot. 

7. Put the croquettes into the fat, turn them frequently 

while cooking until they are well browned on all 
sides, then lift them out with a meat-fork and place 
them on soft crumpled paper in the colander. 
Serve as soon as possible after cooking — either plain 
or with White Sauce No. 1 (page 150). 
[48} 



TOAD-m-THE-HOLE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

}>i pound cold cooked meat (beef, Meat-chopper 

veal, mutton, or lamb) Baking-dish 

3 or 4 potatoes Tablespoon 

Ji cup cold gravy, Soup Stock or 

White Sauce No. 2 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Boil and mash the potatoes in accordance with direc- 

tions on pages 66 and 68. 

2. Put the meat through the meat-chopper. 

3. Measure out 2 cups of mashed potato and place this 

in a buttered baking-dish, pushing the potato up 
around the sides of the dish, and leaving a hole in 
the centre large enough to contain the meat. 

4. Mix the chopped meat with the cold gravy, Soup 

Stock (page 14), or White Sauce No. 2 (page 150), 
and put the mixture in the hole, surrounded by 
potato. 
6. Bake in a hot oven for about fifteen minutes, or until 
the potato begins to brown. 



[49] 



SAUCES FOR MEATS 

Tomato Sauce 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup tomato pulp Saucepan 

2 tablespoons flour Grater 
2 tablespoons butter 

J^ teaspoon salt 

J4 teaspoon grated onion 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Melt the butter in a saucepan. 

2. Add the flour, salt, and grated onion, and mix to- 

gether. 

3. Add half the tomato pulp, and stir over the fire until 

the sauce thickens. 

4. Add the remainder of the tomato pulp, and stir until 

the sauce boils. 



Horseradish Sauce 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 tablespoons grated horseradish 2 bowls 

1 tablespoon vinegar Tablespoon 

}4 teaspoon salt Dover beater 

Few grains cayenne 

4 tablespoons heavy cream 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Mix the horseradish, vinegar, salt, and cayenne. 

2. Beat the cream until stiff, and add it to the other 

materials, stirring thoroughly. 

REMARKS 

Serve with hot or cold meats. 
[50] 




ROAST POULTRY 

Assuming that the bird has been cleaned and dfessed 
by the dealer, it should in addition be singed by holding 
it over a flame and changing its position constantly until 
the whole surface has been exposed to the flame. Wash 
the bird in cold water, dry it well, and fill the interior 
with Stuffing (page 58). Fasten the wings and legs 
firmly and closely to the body with skewers or stout 
twine. Put the bird in a roasting-pan with the breast 
side up, and rub the surface with salt. Make a paste of 
3 tablespoons of butter mixed with 2 tablespoons of flour, 
and spread this over the bird. Place the roasting-pan 
in a hot oven, and after ten minutes reduce the heat and 
pour from J^ cup to 2 cups of boiling water over the bird, 
the amount of water depending upon the size of the bird. 
Baste every ten minutes by dipping up the liquid from 
the roasting-pan with a long-handled spoon and pour- 
ing it over the bird. 

Chicken, duck, and goose should roast twenty minutes 
for each pound. Turkey should roast thirty minutes for 
each pound. 

If a self-basting pan is used, the cover should be fitted 
tightly over the lower part of the pan after the water has 
been poured over the bird and then need not be removed 
during the cooking. 

{51} 



GRAVY FOR ROAST POULTRY 

After the bird has been removed from the roasting- 
pan to a hot platter for serving, pour the liquid from the 
roasting-pan into a measuring-cup. Mix 3 tablespoons 
of flour with this liquid, stirring and rubbing out every 
lump. If the cup is not quite full, add enough warm 
water to fill it; then pour the contents of the cup back 
into the roasting-pan, or into a saucepan, and set this 
over the fire, stirring constantly until the gravy thickens 
and boils. Then add 1 cup of boOing water, and stir 
until the gravy is smooth and thoroughly blended . Season 
with salt. If desired, the giblets (heart, liver, and giz- 
zard) may be parboiled slowly for twenty minutes, 
chopped finely, and added to the gravy. 



[52] 



BROILED CHICKEN 

1. Have the chicken dressed and cut in half (along the 

back-bone) by the butcher. 

2. Singe the, chicken if necessary, to remove the pin- 

feathers. 

3. Wash the chicken inside and out, and then wipe it 

dry on a piece of clean cloth. 

4. Place the two pieces on a greased broiler, with the 

skin side down, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

5. Put the broiler in the lower oven and cook the chicken 

fifteen minutes, watching carefully to see that it 
does not brown too quickly. 

6. Put several bits of butter on the chicken, sprinkle 

again with salt and pepper, and broil five minutes 
longer, turning the pieces frequently. 

REMARKS 

Only very young chickens should be cooked in this 
way. Such smaller birds as squab, quail, etc., may be 
broiled according to the same directions, but should not 
be cut in two before broiling. 



[63} 



FRIED CHICKEN 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 



Chicken 




Meat-knife 


Salt 




Covered saucepan 


Pepper 




Colander 


Flour 




Bread-board 


1 cup lard 


or similar fat 


Deep frying-pan 
Long-handled fork 

DIRECTIONS 



1. With a meat-knife separate the legs and wings of the 

chicken from the body, cut the body in two, length- 
wise along the back-bone, and cut each half of the 
body into two parts. 

2. Wash the pieces of chicken, and dry them on a clean 

cloth. 

3. Unless the chicken is very young (in which case it will 

not be necessary to boil it before frying) put the 
pieces into a saucepan, and barely cover them with 
boiling water. Cover the saucepan, reduce the heat 
so that the water will simmer, and cook for about 
an hour, or until the chicken is tender. 

4. Take the saucepan from the fire, drain off the water, 

and allow the chicken to cool. 

5. Sprinkle the bread-board thickly with flour and roll 

each piece of chicken in the flotir, coating it thor- 
oughly. 

6. Set the frying-pan on the fire, put the fat into it; and 

when the fat melts and begins to smoke, put the 
pieces of chicken into it. Brown the chicken well 
on both sides, taking each piece from the fat as it 
is done and shaking a Kttle salt and pepper over it.- 

7. Prepare gravy as directed in the following recipe, and 

pour it over the chicken on a hot platter. 

[54] 



GRAVY FOR FRIED CHICKEN 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 tablespoons hot fat Bowl 

2 tablespoons flour Tablespoon 

% cup milk 

% cup hot water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. When all the chicken has been taken from the frying- 

pan, pour out of the pan into a bowl all but about 
2 tablespoons of the hot fat in which the chicken 
has fried, and place the frying-pan over a low flame 
on the stove. 

2. Stir the flour into the fat in the frying-pan, mixing it 

thoroughly so that no lumps remain. 

3. Add the milk and hot water, stirring the mixture con- 

stantly until it thickens and boils. 

4. Add the salt and pepper. 

REMARKS 

If a richer gravy is wanted, use IJ^ cups of Soup Stock 
(page 14) in place of the milk and hot water. The heart, 
liver, and gizzard of the chicken may, if desired, be boiled 
until tender, then finely chopped and added to the gravy. 



[55] 



CHICKEN FRICASSEE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 



Small chicken 


Meat-knife 


4 tablespoons flour 


Saucepan 


4 tablespoons butter 


Large spoon 


IJ^ teaspoons salt 


2 bowls 



1 tablespoon chopped parsley 
H cup cream or milk 



DIRECTIONS 

1. With a meat-knife separate the legs and wings of the 

chicken from the body, cut the body in two, length- 
wise along the back-bone, and cut each half of the 
body into two parts. 

2. Wash the pieces of chicken and dry them, 

3. Put the chicken in a saucepan and barely cover it 

with boiling water. 

4. Set the saucepan over the fire, cover it, reduce the 

heat so that the water will simmer, and cook for 
forty minutes, removing the scum as it rises to the 
surface of the water. 

5. Remove the pieces of chicken from the saucepan to 

a bowl, and pour the liquid from the saucepan into 
another bowl. 

6. Melt the butter in the saucepan, add the flour, salt, 

and pepper, and mix thoroughly until no lumps re- 
main. 

7. Measure out 3 cups of the hot liquid in which the 

chicken has cooked, and add it slowly to the butter 
and flour in the saucepan, stirring constantly imtil 
it thickens and boils. 

8. Add the cream or milk and the parsley to this gravy, 

and put the pieces of chicken into it; 
[56] 



CHICKEN FRICASSEE— Continued 

9. Reduce the heat, cover the saucepan, and simmer for 
half an hour. 



REMARKS 

Baking-Powder Biscuit (page 134) may be split in two 
and arranged around the chicken on the serving platter, 
and the gravy poured over all. Or, the uncooked biscuit 
dough may be put by the tablespoonful into the sauce- 
pan with the chicken for the last half^hour of cooking, and 
then served on the same platter. 



CHICKEN PIE 

1. Prepare a Chicken Fricassee as directed in the pre- 

vious recipe, 

2. Place a small cup, bottom side up, in the centre of a 

baking-dish, and arrange the pieces of chicken in 
the dish around this cup. 

3. Pour enough of the gravy into the baking-dish so that 

it is nearly full, and then allow the whole to cool. 

4. Prepare Plain Pastry dough (page 85), roll the dough 

out into one thick sheet, and make several short 
cuts through the centre of the sheet with a sharp 
knife. 

5. Fit the dough over the top of the baking-dish, and 

trim off the dough that projects beyond the edges 
of the dish. 

6. Bake in a moderate oven about thirty minutes, or 

until the crust is delicately browned. 



[57] 



CREAMED CHICKEN, TURKEY, OR DUCK 

1. Cut several slices of cold cooked fowl into small cubes 

or dice. 

2. Make White Sauce No. 2, in accordance with direc- 

tions on page 150. 

3. Stir about 1 cup of the cut fowl into the White Sauce, 

and reheat slowly to the boiling-point. 

4. Serve on slices of buttered toast. If dfesired, a small 

amount of chopped mushrooms, pimentos, green 
pepper, or olives may be added to the White Sauce 
with the cut fowl. 



STUFFINGS FOR POULTRY 

Plain Stuffing 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 tablespoons butter Small saucepan 

1 cup bread crumbs Tablespoon 

}4 teaspoon salt Mixing-bowl 

Pepper 

1 teaspoon sweet marjoram 

li teaspoon celery salt 

Few eX^ins summer savory 

J^' cup boiling water 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Melt the butter in a small saucepan. 

2. Mix the crumbs, salt, pepper, marjoram, celery salt, 

and summer savory in a mixing-bowl. 

3. Stir the melted butter into the materials in the bowl. 

4. Add the boiling water, and mix the whole together 

thoroughly. 

CSS] 



STUFFINGS FOR POULTRY— Continued 

rMarks 

If the stuffing is to be used for a turkey, the amounts 
of the materials named should be doubled or trebled, 
depending upon the size of the fowl. 



Oyster Stufling 

Follow the same directions as given above for Plain 
Stuffing, but add 1 cup of small oysters and 1 cup of finely 
chopped celery. 

Potato StufSng 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

4 or 5 potatoes Meat-chopper 

Small piece salt pork Chopping-bowl 

1 onion Small saucepan 

i4 cup butter Small bowl 

1 egg Dover beater 

1}4 cups bread crumbs Mixing-bowl 

1}^ teaspoons salt Mixing-spoon 
1 teaspoon sage 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Boil and mash the potatoes as directed on pages 66 

and 68. 

2. Put the salt pork through the meat-chopper. 

3. .Chop the onion in a small chopping-bowl. 

4. Melt the butter in a small saucepan. 

5. Beat the egg in a small bowl. 

6. While the potato is still hot, measure out 2 cups of 

it into the mixing-bowl. Add J^ cup of the chopped 
salt pork, together with all the other materials, and 
mix thoroughly. 

[59} 




DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING AND 
BOILING VEGETABLES 

Artichokes — French 

1. Wash in cold water, remove the outside leaves, and 

cut off the stems close to the leaves. 

2. Cut off about an inch of the tops of the leaves, spread 

the leaves open from the centre, and remove the 
core or "choke." 

3. Tie a string around each artichoke near the top, and 

soak them in cold water for half an hour. 

4. Drain, put into a saucepan of boiling salt water, and 

boil from thirty to forty-five minutes, depending 
upon the age of the artichokes. 

5. Remove from the boiling water, and turn each arti- 

choke upside down to drain. 

6. Place the artichokes on a serving^dish, and remove 

the strings. 

7. Serve with Hollandaise Sauce (page 32), White Sauce 

No. 2 (page 150), or Mayonnaise (page 83). 

Artichokes — Jerusalem 

1. Scrub the artichokes well, using a brush and cold 
water, and peel them. 

[60} 



2. Cook in boiling salt water from one to two hours, ac- 

cording to the size and age of the vegetables. 

3. Drain through a colander, and season with salt, pep- 

per, and butter. 



Asparagus 

1. Cut off the tough root ends of the asparagus. 

2. Untie the bunches and wash the stalks thoroughly in 

cold water, scraping each stalk with a vegetable- 
knife if necessary, 

3. Tie the stalks together again in bunches, with all the 

tips lying in the same direction. 

4. Place the bunches upright in a saucepan half full of 

boiling water, so that the tips will stand out of the 
water, and boil from twenty to forty minutes, de- 
pending on the age of the asparagus. For the last 
ten minutes of boiling, turn the bunches down into 
the water, so that the tips will cook. 

5. Drain, season with butter, pepper, and salt, or serve 

with White Sauce No. 2 (page 150). 



Beans — Shell 

1. Shell the beans, and let them stand in cold water for 

one hour. 

2. Put them into a saucepan, and cover with, boiling 

water. 

3. Cover the saucepan, and boil slowly from one to two 

hours, depending upon the age of the beans. There 
should be very little water left at the end of the 
cooking, so that seasoning may be added without 
draining the beans. 

[61] 



Beans — String 

1. Break off the tips of the beans, pulling the strings off 

with them. 

2. Cut or break the beans into pieces about an inch 

long, wash, and let stand an hour in cold water. 

3. Put the beans into a saucepan, and cover them with 

boiling water. Cover the saucepan, and boil slowly 
from one to three hours. 

4. Drain, and season with butter, salt, and pepper. 



Beets 

1. Scrub the beets, and cut off aU but one inch of the 

stems, leaving the roots on. 

2. Cook whole in boiling water from one to four hours, 

depending upon the size and age of the beets. 

3. Drain, cover with cold water, and let stand a few 

minutes. 

4. Drain again, and remove the skins. 

5. Cut the beets into small cubes or sKce them. 

6. Reheat in Sr dduble-boiler, adding butter, salt, and 

pepper, and (if desired) sugar- 

7. If the beets are to be pickled, cover them with vinegar 

and let stand several hours. 



Brussels Sprouts 

1. Wash, and remove the wilted leaves. 

2. Put in cold water and let stand an hour. 

3. Drain, put in a saucepan, cover with boiling water, 

and let boil twenty minutes, or, if the sprouts are 
large, half an hour. 

4. Drain, and season with butter, salt, and pepper. If 

desired, serve with White Sauce No. 2 (page 150). 
[62] 



Cabbage 

1. Remove the outside leaves, cut the cabbage into quar- 

ters, wash in cold water, and let stand an hour in 
cold water containing a little salt. 

2. Drain, put into a saucepan, cover with boiling water, 

add 3>€ teaspoon soda, and boil thirty minutes to 
an hour, depending upon age. 

3. Drain, and serve. 

Carrots 

1. Wash, scrape, and cut the carrots into small pieces 

or slices. 

2. Put in a covered saucepan, cover with boiling water, 

and boil forty-five minutes, or longer if the carrots 
are old. 

3. Drain, and season with butter, salt, and pepper, or 

add an equal amount of White Sauce No. 2 (page 
150). 

Cauliflower 

1. Remove the leaves, and cut off the stem. 

2. Soak in cold salt water an hour or more. 

3. Drain off the water, put the cauliflower in a sauce- 

pan, cover with boiling water, and boil twenty 
minutes. 

4. Drain, and separate the flowerets or serve whole, 

using plain seasoning or White Sauce No. 2 (page 
150). , 

Celery 

1. Separate and scrape the stalks with a vegetable- 
knife, cut off the leaves and roots, cut into small 
pieces, and let stand in cold water for half an 
hour. 

[63} 



2. Drain, put into a saucepan, and cover with boiling 

water. , 

3. Reduce the heat, cover the saucepan, and let simmer 

from thirty minutes to an hour. 

4. Drain, and serve with White Sauce No. 2 (page 150). 

Com 

1. Remove the husks and silk, and trim the ends of the 

ears. 

2. Put the ears into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil 

from ten to twenty minutes. 

Cucumbers 

Cucumbers are usually served as a salad without cook- 
ing, but they may also be prepared and cooked in the 
^me way as Summer Squash (page 66). 

Greens 

1. Wash thoroughly in plenty of cold water. 

2. Drain, and cover with boiling water in a saucepan. 

3. Cover the saucepan, and boil one hour. 

4. Drain through colander, and chop with a sharp knife. 

5. Season and serve with vinegar, using slices of hard- 

boiled egg as a garnish if desired. 

Onions 

1. Place the onions in cold water, and remove the skins 

while under water. 

2. Drain the onions, and put them into rapidly boiling 

water in a saucepan. 

3. Boil one to two hours, depending upon size and age. 

4. Drain, season, and serve either plain or with White 

Sauce No, 2 (page 150). 
[64] 



Oyster Plant 

1. Wash, scrape, and put at once into cold water to 

which a little vinegar or lemon juice has been 
added. 

2. Cut into slices crosswise, and, when ready to boil, 

drain off the acid water, cover with boiling water 
in a saucepan, place the cover on the pan, and boil 
from thirty minutes to an hour. 

3. Drain, season, and serve in White Sauce No. 2 (page 

150). 

Parsnips 

1. Only very young parsnips are satisfactory for cooking. 

After washing, they may be cooked whole, or 
peeled and cut in small pieces before boiling.' In 
the first instance, three-quarters of an hour should 
be allowed for boiling; in the second, about fifteeh 
minutes. If cooked whole, the parsnips should be 
peeled and sliced after boiling. 

2. Plain seasoning should be used, and, if desired, the 

slices of parsnip may be browned in butter in the 
frying-pan after boiling. 

Peas 

1. Shell the peas, and soak in cold water for an hour. 

2. Drain, put in a saucepan, and add a little boiling 

water. 

3. Cover the saucepan, and cook slowly from twenty to 

forty-five minutes, depending on the size and age 
of the peas. Only a little water should be left in 
the saucepan after cooking, and this should not be 
drained off. 

4. Season with butter, salt, and pepper, and serve plain 

or in White Sauce No. 2 (page 150). 
[65] 



Potatoes-^Irish or Sweet 

1. Scrub the potatoes, peel them or not as desired, and 

let stand in cold water for an hour or more. 

2. Drain off the water, put the potatoes in a saucepan, 

and cover with boiling water to which half a table- 
spoon of salt has been added. 

3. Cover the saucepan, reduce the heat a little, and boil 

from twenty to forty-five minutes, depending upon 
the size and age of the potatoes. 

4. Drain through a colander. 

Spinach (see Greens) 

Squash — Summer 

1. Wash in cold water, and cut in thick slices or in 

quarters. 

2. Put the pieces in a saucepan of rapidly boiling water, 

and cook twenty minutes or imtil tender. 

3. Drain through a colander, mash, and season. 

Squash — ^Winter 

1. Cut the squash in pieces, pare the hard outside rind 

from each piece, and remove the seeds and stringy 
part. 

2. Boil in salt water, or cook in the steamer, one hour 

or until tender. 

3. Drain through a colander, and either mash the pieces 

or serve them as they are. 

Tomatoes 

1. Put the tomatoes in a saucepan, pour boiling water 
over them, and let them stand one minute in the 
water. 

[66] 



2. Drain, and then pour cold water over them. 

3. Remove the skins, and allow the tomatoes to cool. 

4. Cut in quarters, or in slices crosswise; put the pieces 

in a saucepan without water, and cook slowly for 
twenty minutes. 

Turnips 

1. Wash and peel the turnips, and cut them in pieces. 

2. Boil in salt water for about three-quarters of an hour 

or until tender. 

3. Drain through a colander, and either mash the pieces 

or serve them as they are. 



SEASONING VEGETABLES 

In general, any cooked vegetable may be properly 
seasoned by adding 1 tablespoon of butter, J^ teaspoon 
of salt, and }^ teaspoon of pepper for each cup of vegetable. 



CREAMING VEGETABLES 

Boiled onions, carrots, cauliflower, peas, beans, po- 
tatoes, etc., may be creamed by adding White Sauce No. 
2 (page 150), in the proportion of ^ cup of White Sauce 
to 1 cup of vegetable. After mixing the vegetable and 
the White Sauce, they should be heated slowly to the 
boiling-point before serving. 



[67] 



MASHED POTATOES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 medium-sized potatoes Vegetable-knife 

2 tablespoons butter Saucepan 

J^ cup warm milk Colander 

1 teaspoon salt Potato-masher or rioer 

Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Peel and boil the potatoes in accordance with direc- 

tions on page 66. 

2. Drain through a colander, put them back in the 

saucepan, add the materials mentioned above, and 
mash with a potato-masher. Or, put through a 
ricer before adding the other materials. 

3. Place in the oven to reheat, if necessary. 



168 } 



BAKED POTATOES 

1. Select potatoes of uniform size, wash them in cold 

water, and scrub with a stiff brush. 

2. Dry the potatoes on a cloth, and put them on the 

lower rack in a hot oven. 

3. Eeduce the heat a little, and bake from thirty to 

sixty minutes, depending upon the size of the po- 
tatoes. 

4. Take from the oven and pinch each potato until the 

skin breaks on one side (this allows the steam to 
escape and prevents sogginess). 

STUFFED POTATOES 

1. Follow the first three directions given above for 

Baked Potatoes. 

2. When the potatoes are taken from the oven, cut a 

slice lengthwise from each potato, and with a sharp 
knife scrape out the inside pulp into a bowl. 

3. Mash the pulp, season with butter, pepper, and salt, 

add a little milk or cream, and mix well. 

4. Fill the potato skins with this mixture, place them on 

a pie-plate, and put into a moderate oven until the 
tops brown. 



C69] 



FRIED POTATOES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 or 4 mediuniHsized potatoes Vegetable-knife 

I^t for frying Bowl 

Salt Frying-pan or kettle 

Pepper Perforated skimmer 

Colander with soft paper 

French Fried 

Peel the potatoes and cut lengthwise in eighths — or in 
smaller pieces if the potatoes are large. Soak for an hour 
in cold water, drain, and dry on a clean towel. Fry in the 
same way as Saratoga Chips, and season with salt and 
pepper. 

German Fried 

Peel and slice the potatoes crosswise, and soak them in 
cold water an hour or more. Drain, and dry the potatoes 
on a clean towel. Cook in a frying-pan containing half 
a cup of hot fat, turning the potatoes frequently until 
they are cooked and browned on both sides. 



Saratoga Chips 

Peel the potatoes and cut them crosswise into very thin 
slices. Soak the sliced potatoes in cold water for an 
hour, then drain and dry them carefully on a clean towel. 
Have the fat smoking hot in the kettle, put the potatoes 
in the fat carefully, and let them fry until crisp and light 
brown. Lift the potatoes from the fat with a perforated 
skimmer, and put them onto soft crumpled paper in a 
colander. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

C70] 



HASHED BROWN POTATOES 

MATERIALS . UTENSILS 

3 or 4 potatoes Vegetable-knife 

1 tablespoon butter Frying-pan 

14 cup cream Pancake-turner 

1 teaspoon salt 
Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Prepare and boil the potatoes in accordance with 

directions on page 66, drain off the water, and let 
the potatoes cool. 

2. Cut or chop the potatoes into small bits, and add the 

salt and pepper. 

3. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, and put the potato 

in this. 

4. Pour the cream over the potato, cover the pan, and 

cook slowly for fifteen minutes. 

6. Remove the cover of the pan, press the potato firmly 
into the pan, and let it brown on the under side. 

6. Lift the potato with the pancake-turner, folding one 
half over the other, and put it onto a hot serving- 
dish. 

REMARKS 

A small quantity of finely chopped green pepper or 
pimento may be mixed with the potato, if desired. 



[71] 



SCALLOPED POTATOES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 or 4 potatoes Vegetable-knife 

1^ cups milk Baking-dish 

1J4 tablespoons flour 

1% tablespoons butter 

1 teaspoon salt 

Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Wash, peel, and cut the potatoes into thin slices. 

2. Put a layer of sliced potatoes in the baking-dish, 

sprinkle a part of the flour, salt, and pepper over 
the potato, and add some of the butter in small 
bits. Repeat this operation until all the potato, 
flour, and seasoning has been utilized, 

3. Pour the milk into the baking-dish, cover the dish, and 

put it in a moderate oven for an hour and a quarter. 
The cover should be off the dish and the heat in- 
creased during the last ten minutes of baking. 

REMARKS 

Grated cheese may be added to each layer with the 
flour, butter, and other seasonings, if desired; and the top 
may be covered with buttered crumbs ten minutes before 
the dish is taken from the oven. 



[72] 



POTATO CAKES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup cold mashed potato Frying-pan 

2 tablespoons butter Pancake-tumer 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Mould the mashed potato into four flat cakes, about 

an inch thick, and sprinkle with flour. 

2. Melt the butter in the frying-pan, put the cakes in 

the pan, and brown them on both sides, turning 
them with the pancake-turner. 



POTATO SODFFLfe 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 medium-sized potatoes Tablespoon 

14, cup cream or milk Bowl 

1 egg Dover beater 

1 teaspoon salt Baking-dish 

Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Prepare, boil, and mash the potatoes in accordance 

with the recipe on page 68. 

2. Measure out 1 cup of the mashed potato, and mix 

the seasonings and the cream or milk with it. 

3. Beat the egg very light, mix it thoroughly with the 

other materials, and then beat the whole mixture 
well. 

4. Put into a buttered baking-dish, and bake in a hot 

oven for fifteen minutes or until delicately browned. 



[73] 



FRIED EGGPLANT 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 eggplant Vegetable-knife 

1 egg Bowl 

Bread cnimba Dover beater 

Laid or similar fat Plate 

Prying-pan 
Long-handled fork 
Colander with paper 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Peel the eggplant and cut it into slices a quarter 

inch thick. 

2. Soak the slices for several hours in cold salt water. 

3. Drain off the water and wipe the pieces of eggplant 

dry on a clean towel. 

4. Beat the egg and dip the pieces of eggplant first in 

the beaten egg and then in the bread crumbs, coat- 
ing the whole surface of the slices with each. 

5. Melt the fat in a frying-pan, and when it begins to 

smoke fry the slices of eggplant, browning them on 
both sides. 

6. Drain the slices on soft paper in a colander. 



[74] 



BAKED BEANS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

14 pound dried beans Baking-dish or bean-pot 

J^ pound salt pork Covered saucepan 

14 tablespoon salt Tablespoon 

1 table^oon sugar Knife 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the beans in the baking-dish or pot, cover them 

with cold water, and let stand overnight. 

2. Pour off the water, wash the beans in fresh water, 

and put them in the saucepan. 

3. Cover the beans with water, place the saucepan on the 

stove, and let the water come slowly to a boil. 

4. Cover the saucepan, reduce the heat, and let the 

beans simmer for two hours. 
6. Pour the beans, with the liquid in which they boiled, 
into the baking-dish or bean-pot, and add the salt 
and sugar. 

6. Scald the pork with boiling water, scrape its entire 

surface with a knife, and slash the rind deeply sev- 
eral times in each direction. 

7. Press the pork down into the beans with the rind 

side up. 

8. Cover the dish or pot, put it into a slow oven, and 

bake three hours, adding a little hot water if neces- 
sary to keep the beans ttioist. 



REMARKS 

If desired, two tablespoons of moiasses may be added 
with the salt and sugar. This will make the beans 
browner and sweeter. 



[75] 



STUFFED PEPPERS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 large green peppers Vegetable-knife 

^ cup cold cooked meat or fish finely Saucepan 

chopped Tablespoon 

J^ cup White Sauce No. 2 Baking-pan 
Ji cup bread crumbs 
1 teaspoon onion juice 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Cut a slice from the stem-end of each pepper, and re- 

move the. seeds from the inside. 

2. Boil the peppers for fifteen minutes in a covered sauce- 

pan, then take them from the saucepan, drain off 
all water, and let them cool. 

3. In the same saucepan make White Sauce No. 2 (page 

150), using half the amounts called for in the recipe. 

4. Add the chopped meat or fish and the onion juice to 

the White Sauce, and mix thoroughly. 

5. With a tablespoon fill the hollow peppers with this 

mixture, and cover the tops with buttered bread 
crumbs. 

6. Put the peppers in a baking-dish, and bake in a mod- 

erate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. 



[76] 



CORN FRITTERS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

i4 cup canned cam Tablespoon 

1 egg Mixing-bowl 
M teaspoon aalt Sifter 

}i cup flour Small bowl 

J^ teaspoon baking-powder Dover beater 

2 tablespoons milk Frying-pan 

J^ cup fat for frying Pancake-turner 

Colander with paper 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Stir the corn and milk together in a mixing-bowl, 

and sift the flour, salt, and baking-powder into 
this. 

2. Beat the egg in a small bowl, add it to the materials 

in the mixing-bowl, and stir well together. 

3. Melt the fat in the frying-pan, and put the mixture 

into this (when the fat begins to smoke), a separate 
spoonful at a time. Turn the fritters frequently 
while frying, so that they will brown on all sides. 

4. Drain the fritters on soft crumpled paper in a col- 

ander. 



[77] 



SPINACH k la BECHAMEL 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

a peck spinach Large covered saucepan 

3 tablespoons butter Tablespoon 

2 tablespoons flour Frying-pan 

% cup milk Colander 

^ teaspoon salt Knife 

Pepper 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Wash and boil the spinach in accordance with the 

directions for preparing and boiling Greens on 
page 64. 

2. Drain through a colander, and chop the spinach 

finely with a knife. 

3. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, and add the chopped 

spinach. 

4. Sprinkle the flour over the spinach, and mix thor- 

oughly. 

5. Pour the milk slowly into the spinach, stirring all the 

time, and cook for ten minutes over a slow fire. 



REMARKS 

Slices of hard-boiled egg may be placed over the top 
of the dish of spinach just before serving, if desired. 



C78} 



SALADS AND 
SALAD T>RESSINGS 

GREEN SALADS 

Lettuce, cress, endive, and similar greens intended for 
use as salads should be carefully washed in very cold 
water, wrapped in a cloth, and placed in the ice-box for 
several hours before serving. When ready to dress and 
serve the salad, take it from the ice-box, wipe each leaf 
on a clean dry cloth, place the leaves in a salad-bowl, and 
pour French Dressing (page 82) over the leaves. With 
a salad-fork and spoon toss the leaves about in the bowl 
until each leaf is well coated with the dressing. 

VEGETABLE SALADS 

Tomatoes, cucumbers, Spanish onions, celery, and cab- 
bage are served uncooked as salads, and should be peeled, 
sliced, chopped, or shredded, and thoroughly chilled be- 
fore using. French Dressing (page 82) is generally used 
with these salads, sometimes with the addition of a Uttle 
Mayonnaise (page 83) placed on the top of each portion. 
For cabbage. Boiled Dressing (page 84) is commonly 
used. 

Asparagus, beets, cauliflower, beans, peas, potatoes, 
etc., should be boiled and allowed to cool, and then chilled 
in the ice-box before being used in salads. They are gen- 
erally served with a little French Dressing (page 82) to 
moisten the vegetable, and then Mayonnaise (page 83) 

[79] 



VEGETABLE SALADS— Continued 

is placed on each portion. Boiled Dressing (page 84) is 
commonly used for potato salad. 

Two or more vegetables may be used together, and 
cooked and uncooked vegetables are often combined. 

FRUIT SALADS 

Apples, cherries, pineapples, oranges, grapefruit, melons, 
bananas, etc., when used for salads should be prepared by 
peeling, removing stones or cores, and slicing or cutting 
into small cubes or dice, depending upon the kind of fruit. 
These salads are ordinarily served with French Dressing 
(page 82), sometimes with the addition of Mayonnaise 
(page 83), and whipped cream in equal parts. Com- 
binations of fruits are often served, and occasionally fruit 
and uncooked vegetables are combined. Apples, celery, 
and nuts are frequently served together; and oranges and 
celery are sometimes combined. A bed of lettuce leaves 
is nearly always used for fruit salads. 

MEAT AND FISH SALADS 

Cold cooked fowl of any kind, and cold roast veal, pork, 
or ham, when used for salads, should be cut or chopped 
into small pieces or cubes. Chopped celery should be 
added to the meat in the proportion of one part celery to 
two parts meat; and after moistening with French Dress- 
ing (page 82), the meat and celery should be thoroughly 
mixed with Mayonnaise (page 83). Sweetbreads that 
have been parboiled may be used in combination with any 
of the above-mentioned meats. Cold cooked fish or 
canned fish intended for a salad should be shredded with 
two forks, and then used in the same way as meat for a 
salad. Nuts, hard-boiled egg, capers, onion, pickles, 
olives, pimentos, parsley, etc., may be added in finely 
chopped form to any kind of meat or fish salad. 

[80 1 



TOMATO- JELLY SALAD 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup tomato juice Bowl 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley Tablespoon 

1 teaspoon onion juice Saucepan 

}4 teaspoon salt Vegetable-knife 

Pepper Small cups or moulds 

Ji tablespoon granulated gelatine 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Soak the gelatine in a bowl with 2 tablespoons of 

cold water for twenty minutes. 

2. Put all the other materials in a saucepan, set over the 

fire, and bring to a boil. 

3. Take the saucepan from the fire, add the gelatine, 

and stir until the gelatine dissolves. 

4. Pour into small cups or moulds, and set in a cool place 

to stiffen. 

REMARKS 

The jelly should be prepared six or eight hours before 
serving time, and set in the ice-box to chill. When ready 
to serve, wrap a cloth wrung out of very hot water 
around each cup or mould, and let the jelly slip out of 
the mould onto a lettuce leaf. 

Serve with a teaspoon of French Dressing (page 82) 
poured over each portion, and a tablespoon of Mayon- 
naise (page 83) put on the top. A few slices of cucum- 
ber, a piece of hard-boiled egg, or a few olives, capers, 
etc., may be used with this salad. 



[81] 



FRENCH DRESSING 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

H teaspoon salt Bowl or cup 

Few grains cayenne Silver fork 

j/^ teaspoon white pepper 
14 teaspoon paprika 
2 tablespoons vinegar 
6 tablespoons olive-oil 

DIRECTIONS 

Put all the dry materials in a bowl or cup, and slowly 
add the vinegar, then the oil, stirring constantly with a 
silver fork. Beat with the fork for two or three minutes. 



REMARKS 

Part of the vinegar used may be taragon, if desired. 

A piece of ice the size of a marble may, with good re- 
sults, be put in the cup while mixing the dressing; in any 
case, the oil should be very cold. 

Any of the following may be added to the dressing, ac- 
cording to individual taste: 

J^ teaspoon mustard 

J^ teaspoon onion juice 

J^ teaspoon finely chopped parsley 

1 teaspoon chopped pimento 

2 chopped olives 

1 small pickle — chopped 

J^ hard-boiled egg— chopped. 

If any of the dressing is left over, it should be put in 
the ice-box, and then beaten again with a fork before 
using. 



C82] 



MAYONNAISE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 egg— yolk only Small bowl 
H teaspoon salt Cup 

Few grams cayenne Silver fork 

yi teaspoon mustard 
a teaspoon paprika 

2 tablespoons vinegar 
1 cup oil 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the salt, cayenne, mustard, and paprika in a 

bowl. 

2. Add the egg-yolk, and mix thoroughly with a fork. 

3. Add one teaspoon of the vinegar, and mix. 

4. Add part of the oil, drop by drop, beating with the 

fork until the mixture is so thick that it is difficult 
to stir it. 

5. Stir in a little more of the vinegar, until the mixture 

is again thin enough to beat. 

6. Add more oil, drop by drop, and then in larger 

amounts, beating constantly. 

7. Alternately beat in the remaining oil and vinegar, 

until all is used. 



REMARKS 

The egg, oil, and bowl should be very cold — this is one 
of the secrets of success. 

Should the dressing curdle while mixing, beat another 
egg-yolk in a clean bowl, and add the curdled dressing to 
it in the smallest possible amounts, beating constantly 
with a fork. 

Mayonnaise may be kept for several days in the ice- 
box if tightly covered in a small fruit jar. 

[83] 



BOILED DRESSING 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 teaspoon dry mustard Bowl 
J^ teaapoon salt Fork 

14 teaspoon paprika Small saucepan 

2 eggs — ^yolks only Lemon-squeezer 
4 tablespoons butter Double-boiler 

2 tablespoons vinegar Dover beater 

J^ cup thick cream 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Mix the mustard, salt, and paprika in a bowl. 

2. Add the egg-yolks, and beat with a fork. 

3. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, and add it slowly 

while stirring the egg-yolks. 

4. Add the viaegar and lemon juice slowly while stir- 

ring, and then put the mixture in the double-boiler. 
6. Set the boiler over the fire and cook, stirring con- 
stantly, until the dressing is thick like custard. 

6. Take the boiler from the fire, and at once pour the 

dressing back into the bowl. 

7. When the dressing is 'cool and ready to serve, whip 

the cream with a dover beater and stir it into the 
dressing. 

REMARKS 
This dressing will keep several days in the ice-box. 



[84 J 




PLAIN PASTRY FOR PIES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 



2 cups flour 

1 cup shortening — ^butter and laid 

Ice-water 



Mixing-bowl 

Palette-knife 

Bread-board 

Rolling-pin 

Fork 

Pie-pan 



DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING THE PASTRY 

1. Sift the flour into a mixing-bowl. 

2. Cut the shortening into tiny bits. 

3. Wash the hands in cold water, and dry them. With 

the finger-tips work the shortening into the flour 
as quickly as possible. 

4. When thoroughly mixed, add a little ice-water, mix- 

ing it into the flour and shortening with a palette- 
knife. Use barely enough water to moisten the 
mixture, keeping the dough as stiff as possible. 

DIRECTIONS FOR USING THE PASTRY 

1. Sprinkle the bread-board with flour, place the dough 

on the board, and cut it into two equal parts. 

2. Set one part aside, and after sprinkling flour over the 

rolling-pin, roll out the remaining part into a 
sheet a little less than a quarter of an inch thick. 

CSS] 



PLAIN PASTRY FOR PIES— Continued 

If the dough sticks to the board, loosen it care- 
fully with a knife. If it breaks or tears, fold the 
sheet of dough over once each way, sprinkle more 
flour on the board and rolling-pin, and roll the 
dough out again. It is important that there shall 
be no hole in the lower crust of a pie. 

3. Lay the sheet of dough in a pie-pan, and press it 

down against the bottom and sides of the pan. 

4. Dip one finger into cold water and moisten the 

dough around the edge of the pan. 

5. Pour in the fruit or whatever pie-filling is to be used. 

This must always be cold. 

6. Roll out the remaining dough, as described above, 

for the top crust. 

7. With a sliarp knife make several cuts two or three 

inches long through the centre of the sheet of 
dough, forming a design if desired. These cuts 
are necessary to allow the steam to escape in 
baking. 

8. Lay the top crust over the top of the pie, and with 

the tines of a fork press the top and bottom crusts 
together all around the edge of the pan. 

9. Hold the pie-pan on the palm of the left hand, and 

with a knife trim off the overhanging portions of 
dough close to the rim of the pan all around. 

10. Cut the pieces of dough thus removed into thin 

strips, and press these strips into the dough aU 
around the edge of the top crust. 

11. Place the pie in a hot oven, and immediately reduce 

the heat. If uncooked fruit is used for the filling, 
the heat must be very slow in order to cook the 
fruit thoroughly. 

12. Bake from thirty to fifty minutes, the length of 

time depending upon the nature of the filling used. 
[86] 



FRESH FRUIT OR BERRY PIES 

Apples should be cut in quarters, cored, peeled, and 
thinly sliced. 

Peaches should be peeled, cut in half, stoned, and 
sliced. 

Cherries or plums should have the stones removed. 

Strawberries, raspberries, gooseberries, etc., should be 
thoroughly washed in cold water, and allowed to drain. 

Cranberries should be cooked in accordance with the 
directions for Cranberry Sauce (page 147). 

In using any uncooked fruits or berries above men- 
tioned, fill the lower crust of the pie with the prepared 
fruit. Pour over this from J^ to a full cup of sugar, into 
which one tablespoon of flour has been mixed." The 
amount of sugar will depend upon the relative sweetness 
of the fruit used. In the case of applex^pie, the flour 
should be omitted, but the pie should be flavored with 
J^ teaspoon of spice or 1 tablespoon of lemon juice. Any 
fruit or berry pie may be made richer by putting a few 
bits of butter on top of the filling before the top crust is 
placed over it. 

DRIED OR CANNED IRUIT PIES 

Any kind of dried fruit may be used for pies, after it 
has been prepared according to the directions on page 145. 

In using canned fruits for pies, very httle, if any, sugar 
should be added to the fruit. A tablespoon of floiu- 
should, however, be stirred into the fruit to thicken the 
juice. 



[87] 



FILLING FOR SQUASH OR PUMPKIN PIE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

Fresh squash or pumpkin Steamer 

}^ cup sugar . Colander 

14 teaspoon clove Potatp-masher 

Ji teaspoon cinnamon Double-boilef 

1 egg Mixing-bowl 

% cup milk Dover beater 

Mixing-spoon 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Steam several pieces of peeled squash or pumpkin 

until tender. 

2. Put the steamed vegetable through the potato-ricer, 

or mash it with a potato-masher through a colander. 

3. Scald thejnilk in a double-boiler. 

4. Beat the ^g, and add it to 1 cup of the mashed vege- 

table in a bowl. 
5. 1 Stir the hot milk, sugar, cinnamon, and clove into 

the vegetable, mixing all well together. 
6. Allow the mixture to cool thoroughly before being 

used in a pie.. 

REMARKS 

,. ^quash or pumpkin pie is made with a bottom crust 
only. The pie should be put into a moderate oven, and 
the heat reduced after five minutes. Cook very slowly, 
until the filling thickens like custard. 



^m 



FILLING FOR LEMON PIE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 



1 cup sugar 


• 


Tablespoon 


1]4: ®ups boiling water 




Lemon-squeezer 


4 tablespooj}^ com-staroh 


Grater ^ 


a tablespoon butter 




Dover beater 


1 lemon 




Vegetable-knife 


2 eggs — ^yolka only 




Saucepan 

Bowl 

Cup 


«- 


DIRECTIONS 



1. Grate the rind of the lemon, then cut the lemon in 

two and squeeze out the juice. 

2. Mi* the sugar and corn-starch together in a 'sauce- 

pan. 

3. Pour the boiling water slowly into the saucepan with 

the sugar and cc^n-starch, stirring constantly. 

4. Place the saucepan over the fire, and allow the mix- 

ture to cook until it becomes a clear thick paste, 
stirring all the time. 

5. Take from the stove, 9,dd the butter, lemon juice, 

and grated rind, and mix weU. 

6. Beat the egg-yolks until light, and stir them into the 

paste in the saucepan. 

7. AUow the entire mixture to cool thoroughly before 

being used in a pie. 

REMARKS 

Lemon pie is made with a bottom crust only. After 
the pie is baked, the top is usually covered with Meringue 
(page 90), and the pie put back in the oven for a few 
minutes to brown the Meringue. 

[89] 



FILLING FOR CUSTARD PIE 

Use the materials for Baked Custard (page 92) and fol- 
low the first three directions for that recipe. Pour the 
uncooked custard into the bottom crust of the pie. Omit 
the top crust. Put in a moderately hot oven and reduce 
the heat at once, allowing the pie to bake slowly until the 
custard is stiff and the top well browned. A little nut- 
meg may be sprinkled over the top of the pie before 
baking. 



FILLING FOR COCOANUT PIE 

Use the materials for Baked Custard (page 92) and 
follow the first three directions for that recipe. Stir into 
the uncooked custard J^ cup of grated cocoanut. Make 
the pie without a top crust, and bake in a slow oven until 
the top is browned and the filling stiff. 



MERINGUE FOR PIES OR PUDDINGS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 eggs — ^whites only Bowl 

7 tablespoons powdered sugar Dover beater 

1 tablespoon lemon juice Lemon-squeezer 

Knife 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Beat the egg-whites until very stiff. 

2. Add the sugar, a little at a time, beating continually. 

3. Add the lemon juice, a few drops at a time, still beat- 

ing. 

4. Continue to beat for about fifteen minutes, or until 

the mixture is stiff enough to hold its shape. 

[90] 




COTTAGE PUDDING 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 



2 tablespoons butter 

J4 cup sugar 

1 egg 

J^ cup flour 

1 teaspoon baking-powder 

}r| teaspoon salt 

Ji cup milk 

H teaspoon vanilla 



2 bowls 
Tablespoon 
Dover beater 
Sifter 
CaJce-pan 



DIRECTIONS 

1. "Cream" the butter in a mixing-bowl. 

2. Add the sugar, and "cream" again. 

3. Break the egg, adding the yolk to the butter and' 

sugar and putting the white in a separate bowl. 

4. Beat the egg with the sugar and butter. 

6. Sift the flour, baking-powder, and salt together. 

6. Add the flour mixture and the milk, alternately and 

a little at a time, to the materials in the mixing- 
bowl, and beat thoroughly with a mixing-spoon. 

7. Beat the egg-White and "fold" it into the mixture. 

8. Pour the mixture into a buttered cake-pan, and bake 

from twenty to thirty minutes in a moderate oven. 
Serve with Vanilla, Lemon, or Strawberry Sauce 
(pages 101-102). 

[91] 



BAKED CUSTARD 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 eggs Bowl 

14 cup sugar Dover beater 

2 cups milk Baking-cups or dish 

14 teaspoon spice Large pan 

or 
}4 teaspoon vanilla 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Break the eggs in a bowl and beat them with a dover 

beater. 

2. Add the sugar and flavoring, and mix together. 

3. Stir in the milk. 

4. Pour the mixture into custard-cups or a baking-dish, 

set the cups or; dish in a large pan half filled with 
water, and put this pan into a slow oven. 

5. Bake slowly until the custard is thick and will not 

stick to the blade of a knife thrust into the centre. 

6. Lift the cups or baking-dish from the pan of water, 

and set in a cool place. 

REMARKS 

Serve plain, with cream, or with Caramel Sauce (page 
121). 



[92 1 



BREAD PUDDING 

Place 2 or 3 slices of plain bread in the bottom of a 
baking-dish, and pour over them }^ cup of milk. While 
this is soaking, prepare a custard in accordance with the 
first three directions in the preceding recipe. Poiu- the 
custard over the bread in the baking-dish, add J^ cup of 
raisins (which have previously soaked for an hour in cold 
water) and 34 teaspoon of cinnamon. Bake in a slow 
oven for about three-quarters of an hour, or until the cus- 
tard stiffens and is slightly browned. If desired, the 
pudding may be covered with Meringue (page 90) after 
baldng, and then replaced in the oven until the Meringue 
browns slightly. Or the pudding may be served with 
Hard Sauce (page 100). 



[93] 



TAPIOCA CUSTARD 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

yi cup pearl tapioca Bowl 

or 2 cups 

1)4 tablespoons minute tapioca Double-boiler 

2 cups milk Small bowl 

2 eggs Dover beater 

^ cup sugar Strainer 

1 teaspoon vanilla Tablespoon 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the tapioca in a cup, cover it with cold water, 

and let it soak one hour. 

2. Put the milk in a double-boiler, set this over the &e, 

and let the milk scald. 

3. Drain the water from the tapioca through a strainer, 

and put the tapioca in the double-boiler with the 
milk, allowing it to cook until the tapioca is trans- 
parent. 

4. Break the eggs, putting the yolks in one bowl and the 

whites in another. 

5. Add the sugar to the yolks, and beat them well to- 

gether. 

6. Pour the yolks and sugar slowly into the double- 

boDer, stirring constantly, and cook about five 
miautes. 

7. Take the boiler from the fire, separate it, and let the 

custard cool for a few minutes. 

8. Beat the egg-whites stiff, add them with the vanilla 

to the custard, and mix thoroughly. 

9. Pour into a serving-dish, and chill for several hours 

before serving. 



[94] 



CUSTARD SOUFFLfe 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 tablespoons flour Saucepan 

2 tablespoons butter Tablespoon 

% cup milk 2 small bowls 

2 tablespoons sugar Dover beater 

2 eggs Small baking-dish 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the butter in the saucepan, and hold the pan 

over the fire until the butter melts. 

2. Stir the flour into the butter, mixing well. 

3. Add yi cup of milk to the butter and flour in the 

saucepan, and stir over the fire until it begins to 
thicken. 

4. Add the remaining milk, and stir over the fire until 

it boils, then take the saucepan off the fire. 

5. Break the eggs, putting the whites in one bowl and 

the yolks in another. 

6. Put the sugar in the bowl with the yolks, and beat to- 

gether. 

7. Add the beaten yolks and sugar to the mixture in the 

saucepan, and mix well. Put in a cool place to 
chill. 

8. Beat the egg-whites, and "fold" them into the cold 

cooked mixture. 

9. Pour the mixture into a buttered baking-dish, and 

bake in a slow oven about half an hour. 

REMARKS 
Serve hot with Hard Sauce (page 100). 



{96] 



RICE PUDDING 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 pint milk Tablespoon 

1 tablespoon rice Strainer 

2 tablespoons sugar Baking-dish 
}i teaspoon cinnamon 

2 tablespoons raisins 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Soak the raisins for half an hour in cold water. 

2. Wash the rice in a strainer, and let the water drain 

away. 

3. Put the rice into a baking-dish, and add all the other 

materials. 

4. Stir together well, put the dish into a slow oven, and 

bake about two hours. Stir every half-hour while 
it is baking, and increase the heat for the last few 
nainutes, if necessary, to brown. 

REMARKS 

Serve either hot or cold. If desired, the amounts of 
the different materials may be doubled and the pudding 
served cold a second time; in this case three hours should 
be allowed for the baking. 



[96} 



LEMON JELLY 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatine Bowl 

14 cup cold water Tablespoon 

1 cup boiling water Lemon-squeezer 

}^ cup sugar Vegetable-knife 

Ji cup lemon juice Mould 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the gelatine in a bowl, add the cold water, and 

let stand twenty minutes. 

2. Add the boiling water, the sugar, and the lemon juice, 

and stir. ' 

3. Pour into a mould, and set in a cool place for several 

hours. 



ORANGE JELLY 

Follow the same general directions as given above for 
Lemon Jelly, but use only 1 tablespoon of lemon juice 
and add 34 cup of orange juice. 



COFFEE JELLY 

Follow the same general directions as given above for 
Lemon Jelly, but substitute 1 cup of hot coffee for the 
cup of boiKng water, omit the lemon juice, and use only 
34 cup of sugar. 



[97} 



SNOW PXJDDING 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatine Tablespoon 

a cup cold water Wire beater 

1 cup boiling water 3 bowls 

K cup sugar Dover beater 

M cup lemon juice Lemon-squeezer 

3 eggs Mould 

Vegetable-knife 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the gelatine in a bowl, add the cold water, and 

let stand twenty minutes. 

2. Add the boiling water, the sugar, and the lemon juice, 

and stir. 

3. Set the bowl in a cool place, and let the mixture 

thicken. 

4. Beat the mixture with a wire beater untU it becomes 

light and frothy. 

5. Break the eggs, putting the yolks in one bowl and the 

whites in another. 

6. Beat the whites until stiff, and then stir them into 

the gelatine mixture, combining thoroughly. 

7. Pour into a mould, and chill for several hours. 

REMARKS 

Serve with Custard Sauce (page 100) made of the three 
egg-yolks. 



C98] 



BLANC MANGE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup milk Double-boiler 

2^ tablespoons corn atarch Small bowl 

ii cup sugar Tablespoon 

1 egg— white only Mould 
H teaspoon vanOIa 

^ teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons cold milk 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Scald the cup of milk in a double-boiler. 

2. Mix the sugar, corn-starch, salt, and two tablespoons 

of cold milk in a bowl. 

3. Add this mixture to the hot milk in the double-boiler, 

while stirring. 

4. Stir until the mixture thickens, then let it cook for 

fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally. 

5. Take the boiler from the fire, and separate the top 

from the bottom. 

6. Beat the egg-white until stiff, and add it to the mix- 

ture in the boiler, beating it in well. 

7. Add the flavoring, pour into a mould, and chill. 

REMARKS 
Serve with plain cream or Custard Sauce (page 100). 



CHOCOLATE CORN-STARCH PUDDING 

Use the same materials and follow the same directions 
given above for Blanc Mange, but add one square of 
bitter chocolate melted in a cup over hot water to the 
mixture in the double-boiler. Serve with plain or 
whipped cream. 

[99} 



SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS 

Hard Sauce 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

Ji cup butter Small bowl 

1 cup powdered sugax Tablespoon 

^ teaspoon vanilla Small strainer 
1 tablespoon cream or milk 

DIRECTIONS 

1. "Cream" the butter in a bowl. 

2. Sift the sugar through a small strainer, and add it, a 

little at a time, to the butter, "creaming" the two 
together. 

3. Add the vanill^^nd the cream or milk, a few drops 

at a time, an^ mix thoroughly. 
#■' 

Custard Sauce 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup milk Double-boiler 

1 egg or 2 yolks Small bowl 

2 tablespoons sugar Large spoon 
}^ teaspoon vanilla Dover beater 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the milk in the double-boiler, and place this over 

the fire. 

2. Beat the egg and sugar together in a bowl, and then 

slowly stir into it the hot milk. 

3. Pour the mixture back into the boiler, and cook about 

five minutes, stirring constantly. 

4. Pour the custard into a bowl, add the vanilla, and 

beat with a dover beater. 

5. Chill thoroughly before using. 

[100] 



SAUCES FOR PUBDINGS— Continued 

Strawberry Sauce 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

yi cup butter Bowl 

1 cup strawberries Tablespoon 

1 cup powdered sugar Colander 

1 egg— white only Potato-masher 

Small bowl 
Dover beater 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Stem the berries, wash them in cold water, and drain 

through a colander. 

2. Put the berries in a bowl, and mash them with a 

potato-masher. 

3. "Cream" the butter in a bowl, sift the sugar into it, 

and " cream " again. 

4. Beat the egg-white with a dover beater, add it to the 

butter and sugar, and mix well with a spoon. 

5. Add the berries and mix all together. 

Lemon Sauce 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

li cup sugar Saucepan 

J^ cup boiling water Lemon-squeezer 

% tablespoon com-staroh Grater 

1 tablespoon butter Tablespoon 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

A little grated lemon peel 

A little nutmeg 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Mix the sugar and corn-starch together in a sauce- 

pan. 

2. Add the boiling water, a little at a time, stirring 

constantly. 

[101] 



SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS— Continued 

3. Boil three minutes while stirring. 

4. Take the saucepan from the fire, and add the lemon 

juice, grated peel, and nutmeg. Serve hot. 



Vanilla Sauce 

Follow the same general directions as given above for 
Lemon Sauce, but use J^ teaspoon of vanilla instead of 
the lemon juice, grated peel, and nutmeg. 



[102] 




EASY CAKE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 eggs Bowl 
Milk Sifter 

1}4 cups flour Wooden cake-apoon 

3 teaspoons baking-powder Small saucepan 
1 teaspoon vanilla Dover beater 

5 tablespoons butter Cake-pan (with tube) 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Break the eggs into the measuring-cup, and fill the 

cup to the top with milk. 

2. Pour into a bowl, and beat the eggs and milk together 

with a dover beater. 

3. Add the sugar, and beat again. 

4. Melt the butter in a small saucepan; add the melted 

butter with the vanilla, and then the flour, to the 
mixture in the bowl, and beat for at least five 
minutes. 

5. Add the baking-powder, and stir well. 

6. Pour the mixture into a buttered cake-pan, place the 

pan in a cold oven, light the gas, and bake for 
about forty minutes, reducing the heat after the 
first fifteen minutes If a layer-cake is wanted, the 
baking must be done in two shallow cake-pans, and 
about fifteen minutes allowed for the baking. 
[103] 



POUND CAKE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup butter Mixing-bowl 

1 cup sugar Mixing-spoon 
5 eggs Dover beater 

2 cups flour 2 bowls 
2 teaspoons vanilla Sifter 

' or Baking-pans 

Grated peel of a lemon Teaspoon or grater and 
Juice of half a lemon lemon-squeezer 



DIRECTIONS 

1. " Cream " the butter, add the sugar to it, and " cream '■ 

again. 

2. Break the eggs, putting the yolks in one bowl and the 

whites in another. 

3. Beat the 6gg-whites until stiff and dry, and then beat 

the yolks until creamy. 

4. Stir the yolks into the butter and sugar, mixing well. 

5. Sift the flour, and add it to the mixture. 

6. Stir in the flavoring. 

7. "Fold" the beaten egg-whites into the mixture. 

8. Bake in a buttered cake or muffin pan, in a moderate 

oven, for. about twenty minutes. 

REMARKS 

To make a layer-cake from this recipe, bake the batter 
in two shallow cake-pans. When done, remove from the 
pans, spread current jelly over the top of one layer, place 
the other layer on this, and cover the top and sidfes of 
the cake with Boiled Frosting (page 113). 

If a deep cake-pan is used, instead of the muffin or 
shallow cake-pans, from forty to fifty minutes in a slow 
oven will be required for baking. 

[104] 



SPONGE CAKE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

5 eggs 2 bowls 

1 cup sugar Dover beater 

H lemon Wooden spoon 

1 cup flour Grater 

}^ teaspoon salt Lemon-squeezer 

Sifter 

Cake-pan 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Measure out the sifted flour, add salt to this, and 

sift twice again. 

2. Break the eggs, putting the yolks in one bowl and 

the whites in another. 

3. Beat the yolks until they are thick and creamy in 

texture and light in color. 

4. Add the sugar to the egg-yolks, and beat well to- 

gether. 

5. Grate the outer rind of the half lemon, and squeeze 

out the juice. 

6. Add the grated rind and juice to the beaten egg- 

yolks, and stir well together. 

7. Beat the egg-whites until stiff, and "fold" half of 

the beaten whites into the mixture already pre- 
pared. 

8. Add the flour, "cutting and folding" it in; then 

"fold" in the remaining half of the beaten egg- 
whites. 

9. Pour the batter into an unbuttered cake-pan, set 

the pan in a slow oven, and bake for one hour. 
At the end of half an hour the heat may be in- 
creased for fifteen minutes, then turned down 
again. 
10. Take the cake from the oven, invert the pan and 
let the cake stand in this way until it is cold. 
[105} 



CUP CAKES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup sour cream Mixing-bowl 

H teaspoon soda Mixing-spoon 

1 cup sugar 2 small bowls 

2 eggs Sifter 

IJi cups flour Dover beater 

1 teaspoon baking-powder Mufl&n-pans 

J^ teaspoon lemon extract 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Break the eggs, putting the yolks in one bowl and the 

whites in another. 

2. With the dover beater, beat first the whites and then 

the yolks very thoroughly. 

3. Stir the sour cream and soda together in the mixing- 

bowl. 

4. Add the sugar, and stir. 

'5. Add the beaten egg-yolks, and stir again. 

6. Sift the flour and baking-powder together into the 

bowl, and stir the whole mixture' vigorously. 

7. Add the lemon extract, and "fold in" the beaten 

egg-whites. 

8. Butter the muflBn-pans, and fill them about two- 

thirds full of the batter. 

9. Bake in a fairly hot oven for about fifteen minutes 

or until the cakes are browned. 



[106] 



STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

Baking-Powder Biscuit dough Colander 

2 cups strawberries Bowl 

5i cup powdered sugar Potato-masher 

3 tablespoons butter Pie-pan 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Stem the berries, wash them in cold water, and drain 

them through a colander. 

2. Prepare the biscuit dough in accordance with the 

directions on pages 134-5. 

3. Divide the dough into two parts, and roll each part 

out separately into a round sheet about a third of 
an inch thick. 

4. Put one of the sheets of dough on a pie-pan, spread 

half the butter over it, then place the second sheet 
on top of the first. 

5. Bake in a hot oven, reducing the heat considerably 

after the first five minutes of baking. 

6. While the biscuit is baking, mash the strawberries in 

a bowl, and mix the sugar with them. 

7. When the biscuit dough is baked through and nicely 

browned on top, take it from the oven and split it 
open between the two layers. 

8. Put the lower layer on a warm serving-dish, and cover 

it with mashed strawberries. 

9. Place the top layer over the lower one, spread with 

the remaining butter, and pour the rest of the 
mashed strawberries over the whole. 

REMARKS 

Serve slightly warm, with either plain or whipped 
cream. 

[107} 



GINGERBREAD 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

j4 cup butter Small saucepan 

J^ cup sugar Mixing-bowl 

i4 cup mola;Sses Small bowl 

1 egg Mixing-spoon 

1 teaspoon ginger Dover beater 

J^ teaspoon cinnamon Sifter 

1^ teaspoon clove Bread or cake pan 

1 teaspoon soda 

14 cup strong hot coffee 

2 cups flour 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, and pour it into 

a mixing-bowl. 

2. Add the sugar and molasses, and stir. 

3. Beat the egg in a small bowl, and add it to the mix- 
, ture in the large bowl. 

4. Stir in the spices and beat well. 

5. Mix the soda into the hot coffee, stir well, and pour 

this into the mixture in the large bowl. 

6. Sift the flour into the mixture, and stir and beat until 

the batter is light and smooth. 

7. Pour the batter into a buttered bread-pan, or two 

buttered cake-pans, and bake in a moderate oven 
about twenty minutes. 

REMARKS 

Gingerbread may be covered with Boiled Frosting 
(page 113), if desired. 



[ 108] 



COOKIES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

a cup butter Mixing-bowl 

1 cup sugar Mixing-spoon 

1 egg Small bowl 
J^ cup sour cream Dover beater 
14 teaspoon soda Sifter 

2 cups flour Bread-board 
M teaspoon baking-powder RoUing-pin 
J^ teaspoon salt Cookie-cutter 
}4 teaspoon nutmeg BaJdng-pans 

DIRECTIONS 

1. "Cream" the butter in the mixing-bowl, and stir in 

the sugar. 

2. Beat the egg, add it to the butter and sugar, and 

mix. 

3. Stir the soda into the cream, and add this to the 

butter, sugar, and egg, mixing well. 

4. Sift the flour, baking-powder, salt, and nutmeg to- 

gether, and add a little at a time to the mixture 
in the bowl, stirring all together well. 

5. Sprinkle flour over the bread-board and rolling-pin, 

and place about a third of the dough on the board. 

6. Toss the dough about on the board until it is coated 

with flour, then roll it out into a sheet about J^ 
inch thick. 

7. Dip the cookie-cutter in flour and cut the dough, 

putting the circles of dough into the baking- 
pans as they are cut. 

8. Take another third of the dough from the mixing- 

bowl, roll this out, and cut in the same way. 

9. When all the dough has been rolled out and cut, the 

scraps should be gathered together, worked into 
a ball, rolled out, and cut. 
[109] 



COOKIES— Continued 

10. Bake the cookies in a hot oven for about ten min- 
utes, or until they are lightly browned. Should 
they brown more quickly on the bottom than on 
the top, place the pans in the lower oven under 
the fire for a minute or two. 

REMARKS 

If desired, granulated sugar may be sprinkled over the 
tops of the cookies, or raisins or^a few chopped nuts 
pressed into the tops, just before the pans are put into 
the oven. 



Ciio] 



DOUGHNUTS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 cups flour Bowl 

214 teaspoons baking-powder Tablespoon 

J^ teaspoon salt Small saucepan 

1 egg Sifter 

14 cup powdered sugar Dover beater 

114 tablespoons butter Deep iron kettle 

Ji teaspoon cinnamon Bread-board 

i4 cup milk Rolling-pin 

2 or 3 pounds lard or similar fat Doughnut-cutter 

Long-handled fork 
Colander with paper 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Beat the egg in a bowl, add the sugar, and beat 

again. 

2. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add it with the 

cinnamon to the egg and sugar, and stir well. 

3. Sift the flour, baking-powder, and salt together, and 

add with the milk, alternately and a little at a 
time, to the mixture in the bowl, stirring con- 
stantly. 

4. Set the bowl in the ice-box for an hour or more. 

5. When ready to fry the doughnuts, put the fat in the 

kettle and set it over the fire. 

6. Sprinkle the bread-board and rolling-pin with flour, 

place half the dough on the board, and roll it 
out into a sheet about M hich thick. 

7. Dip the doughnut-cutter in flour, and cut out the 

doughnuts from the sheet of dough. 

8. Take the remaining dough from the mixing-bowl, and 

repeat the operation. The scraps of dough left 
on the board should be worked together, rolled 
out, and cut. 

[Ill] 



DOUGHNUTS-Continued 

9. Put three or four doughnuts at a time into the hot 
fat in the kettle, turning them with a long-handled 
fork so that they will brown evenly. It should 
take from three to five minutes to cook them. 
10. Lift the doughnuts from the fat as they are cooked, 
putting them on soft crumpled paper in the col- 
ander. 

REMARKS 

The temperature of the fat is an important matter. It 
should be hot enough so that the doughnuts will rise 
quickly from the bottom of the kettle immediately after 
they are put into the fat. The heat must be at once re- 
duced if the fat begins to smoke. 

The doughnuts may be coated with powdered sugar 
after frying by putting them one at a time in a small 
paper bag containing 3 or 4 tablespoons of sugar, and 
shaking the bag once or twice. 

The fat in which the doughnuts have fried should be 
strained into a bowl, and kept for the same use later. 



[112] 



EROSTINGS FOR CAKES 

Boiled Frosting 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup sugax Saucepan 

1 egg — ^white only Bowl 

J^ teaspoon vanilla (or other flavoring Dover beater 

extract) Tablespoon 

J^ cup boiling water 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the sugar in a saucepan, and pour the boiling 

water over it. 

2. Place the saucepan over a slow fire, and stir until the 

sugar is melted; then stop stirring and allow the 
mixture to boil slowly until it "threads" when 
dropped from the tip of a spoon. 

3. Beat the egg-white, and then slowly pour the boiled 

sugar and water over it, stirring all the time. 

4. Add the flavoring, and beat imtil stiff enough to 

spread on the cake. 

Chocolate Frosting 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 tablespoons butter Double-boiler 

2 squares bitter chocolate Sifter 

% cup cream Tablespoon 

IM cups powdered sugar 
14 teaspoon vanilla 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Melt the butter and chocolate together in a double- 

boiler. 

2. Sift the powdered sugar, and add the sugar and cream, 

alternately and a little at a time, to the melted 
butter and chocolate, stirring constantly. 
[ 113 ] 



FROSTmGS FOR CASES— Continued 

3. Take the double-boiler from the fire, and add the 

vanilla. 

4. Beat until stifif enough to spread on the cake. 

Caramel Frosting 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup brown sugar Saucepan 

14 cup milk Tablespoon 

1 tablespoon butter 
^ teaspoon vanilla 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the sugar, milk, and butter into a saucepan, set 

the pan over the fire, and bring slowly to a boil. 

2. Boil without stirring until the mixture will form into 

a thread when dropped from the tip of a spoon. 

3. Take from the fire, add the vanilla, and beat until 

thick enough to spread on the cake. 



[114] 




PLAIN ICE CREAM 



MATERIALS 



2 cups cream 
14 cup sugar 
2 teaspoons vanilla 



UTENSILS 

Bowl 
Tablespoon 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Stir the cream and sugar together in a bowl until the 

sugar is dissolved. 

2. Add the vanilla, and stir well. 

3. Freeze in accordance with directions on page 120. 



[115] 



FRENCH ICE CREAM 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 cups thin cream Double-boiler 

2 eggs or 4 yolks Bowl 

i4 cup sugar Tablespoon 

1 teaspoon butter Dover beater 

2 teaspoons vanilla 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the eggs and sugar in a bowl, and beat until 

creamy. 

2. Add the cream, and mix thoroughly. 

3. Put the mixture in a double-boiler over the fire, and 

cook until it thickens, stirring constantly. 

4. Take from the fire and pour the mixture back into the 

bowl. 

5. Stir in the butter and vanilla, and allow it to stand 

until quite cool. 

6. Freeze in accordance with directions on page 120. 



Cuei 



CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

Add IJ^ squares of bitter chocolate, melted in a cup 
over hot water, to French Ice Cream (page 116) when 
the mixture has thickened in the double-boiler. Or, use 
the amoimts and directions for Plain Ice Cream (page 
115), scalding the cream in the double-boiler and adding 
to it IJ^ squares of bitter chocolate melted in a cup over 
hot water. If the chocolate lumps in the cream, stir over 
the fire until it dissolves. 



CARAMEL ICE CREAM 

Make Caramel Sauce (page 121), and add it to either 
Plain Ice Cream (page 115), or French Ice Cream (page 
116), instead of sugar. 



FRUIT ICE CREAM 

Three-quarters of a cup of any fruit juice or pulp (the 
fruit should be mashed through a colander) may be used 
instead of vanilla in either Plain or French Ice Cream. 
If the fruit is very acid, a little more sugar may be re- 
quired. Canned, fruit may be used, in which case prob- 
ably a little less sugar will be needed. The fruit should 
be added to the mixture just before putting into the 
freezer. 



[117] 



WATER ICE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

% cup sugar Saucepan 

1 cup fruit juice Tablespoon 

2 cups water 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the water in a saucepan, and bring it to the boil- 

ing-point over the fire. 

2. Add the sugar, and stir until this is dissolved. 

3. Remove from the fire, and when cool stir in the fruit 

juice. 

4. Freeze in accordance with directions on page 120. 

REMARKS 

The juice of either oranges, lemons, strawberries, pine- 
apple, raspberries, etc., may be used for this recipe. 



C118] 



SHERBET 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

% cup sugar Cup 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatine Saucepan 

1 to 2 cups fruit juice or pulp 2 bowls 

2 eggs — ^whites only Dover beater 
2 cups water Tablespoon 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the gelatine in a cup, add 2 tablespoons of cold 

water, and allow it to soak twenty minutes. 

2. Put the water in a saucepan, and bring to the boiling- 

point over the fire. 

3. Add the sugar to the boiling water, and stir until it 

dissolves. 

4. Take from the stove and pour into a bowl. 

5. Add the soaked gelatine and stir well. 

6. Set the bowl in a cool place to chill. 

7. Beat the egg-whites stiff. 

8. When the mixture in the bowl is cool, add the egg- 

whites and the fruit juice or pulp, stirring well. 

9. Freeze in accordance with directions on page 120. 

REMARKS 

Any of the fruits or berries used in making Water Ice 
may be used for Sherbet also. Either the juice only,, or 
the juice and pulp together, may be used. 



[119} 



DIRECTIONS FOR FREEZING 

In preparing to freeze ice cream, etc., first see that all 
parts of the freezer are at hand and in good working order. 
Put a sufficient quantity of ice in a heavy canvas bag, 
kept for this purpose, and with an axe or wooden mallet 
pound the ice in the bag into fine pieces. Mix rock salt 
with the broken ice, in the proportion of about one part 
salt to three parts ice. Put the covered freezer can in 
its proper place in the bucket, add the dasher and turning 
apparatus, fill the bucket around the can nearly full of 
the mixed ice and salt, and turn the handle until the ice 
has settled around the can as much as it will. Remove 
the turning apparatus and the cover of the can, and wipe 
away any particles of ice or salt around the top. Pour 
the mixture to be frozen into the can, replace the cover 
and the turning apparatus, and turn the handle slowly 
and steadily for from twenty to thirty minutes. Remove 
the turning apparatus and the cover, lift out the dasher 
and scrape from it into the can any of the frozen mixture 
clinging to it. Press the mixture down into the can as 
compactly as possible. Replace the cover of the can, and 
insert a cork in the hole of the cover. Remove the plug 
from the lower part of the bucket, and allow the water 
to run off. Replace the plug, refill the bucket with ice 
and salt so that it is heaped up over the top of the can, 
cover the freezer with an old blanket or piece of carpet, 
and let it stand in a cool place for an hour or more. 



1:120} 



SAUCES FOR ICE CREAMS 

Caramel Sauce 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup sugar Enamelled frying-pan 

H cup boiling water Spoon 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the sugar in the frymg-pan, place over the fire, 

and stir with a spoon constantly, reducing the heat 
as the sugar begins to melt. 

2. When all the sugar is melted, add the boiling water 

slowly. 

3. Stir over the fire tmtil the sugar again dissolves. 



Fudge Sauce 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

J^ cup sugar Saucepan 

J^ cup brbwn sugar Tablespoon 

yi cup milk 

1 square bitter chocolate 

1 tablespoon butter 

}4 teaspoon vanilla 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the sugar, brown sugar, milk, and chocolate in 

the saucepan, and place over the fire. 

2. Stir every few seconds, and cook until a few drops' of 

the mixture will form a soft ball when dropped in 
cold water. 

3. Take from the fire, add the butter and vanilla, and 

stir well. 

REMARKS 

This sauce should be served immediately after cooking. 
[121] 




COFFEE 

Use 2 tablespoons of finely ground coffee to each cup of 
water. If an ordinary coffee-pot is used instead of a per- 
colator, mix a little beaten egg with the ground coffee be- 
fore it is put into the pot. It will also help to clear the 
coffee if a tablespoon or so of cold water is dashed into 
the boiled coffee just before the pot is taken from the 
stove. The coffee should boil three minutes if cold water 
is used at the start, or five minutes if hot water is used. 

The coffee-pot or percolator should be aired well after 
washing. At least once a week fresh water containing a 
little soda (1 teaspoon to a quart of water) should be 
boiled for several minutes in the pot or percolator; the 
latter should then be washed out in fresh hot water, and 
set in the sun to air. 

TEA 

Use 1 teaspoon of tea to each cup of water. At the 
beginning pour a little boiling water into the teapot, 
cover the pot and let it stand for a few minutes. Pour 
out the water, put in the tea leaves, cover the pot and 
again let it stand for a few minutes. Then pour in as 
much freshly boiling water as will be required, and let 
the tea leaves steep in this for five minutes before serving. 

[122] 



COCOA 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

(For two cups of cocoa): Saucepan 

4 teaspoons cocoa TableBpoon 

4 teaspoons sugar 
14 cup water 
1 cup milk 
a teaspoon vanilla 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Put the cocoa, sugar, and water together in the sauce- 

pan, and stir over the fire until the boiling-point is 
reached. 

2. Add the milk, and stir again until the mixture boils. 

3. Take from the fire, stir in the vanilla, and serve. 

REMARKS 

If the cocoa is well beaten with a dover beater just after 
it is taken from the stove, the flavor will be much im- 
proved.. 



i m } 



CHOCOLATE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

(For two cups of chocolate) : Small saucepan 

?i square bitter chocolate Double-boiler 

2 tablespoons sugar Tablespoon 

IM cups milk Dover beater 
i^ cup boiling water 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Melt the chocolate in a small saucepan set over the 

top of a teakettle containing boiling water. 

2. Heat the milk in the double-boiler. 

3. Stir the sugar into the melted chocolate, and add the 

boiling water, stirring constantly. 

4. Place the saucepan directly over the fire and let its 

contents boil for one minute, stirring all the time. 

5. Pour the contents of the saucepan into the milk in 

the double-boiler, and beat with a dover beater 
until the mixture becomes frothy. 

6. Place the top of the double-boiler directly over the 

fire, and allow its contents to reheat slowly, stir- 
ring constantly. 

REMARKS 
Serve with whipped cream. 



[ 124] 




BOILED CEREALS 

Table for Cooking 

Kind of cereal Proportion of water to cereal 

Prepared oats 1 cup water to J^ cup cereal 

Prepared wheat 2 cups water to J^ cup cereal 
Hominy 2 cups water to J^ cup cereal 



Corn-meal 



2 cups water to j4 cup cereal 



BoUing time 
2 hours 
45 minutea 
1 hour 



nummy ^ cups water lo y^ cup cereal i nour 

Rice IJ^ cups water to }^ cup cereal 45 minutea 



3 hours 



3. 



DIRECTIONS 

After consulting the above table, measure out the 
proper amount of boiling water into the upper part 
of the doubleS-boiler, add }4 teaspoon of salt for 
each cup of water used, and place the upper part 
of the boiler directly over the fire. 

Pour the cereal slowly into the boiling water, stirring 
all the time. 

Let the cereal and water boil directly over the fire 
for three minutes, stirring constantly. 

Poiu- boiling water into the lower part of the boiler, 
set the upper part in place over the ower part, and 
let the cereal cook the required time as shown in 
the above table. 

[125} 



BOILED CEREALS— Continued 

REMARKS 

Rice should be washed before cooking by putting it 
in a strainer and letting cold water run through it, at the 
same time rubbing the grains of rice between the tips of 
the fingers. 

FRIED CEREALS 

Boil any cereal according to the above directions. 
Pour it into a bowl to cool, then pack it into a buttered 
baking-powder box, put the cover on the box, and let 
it stand overnight. When needed for use, take the 
cereal from the box and cut it into shoes about 34 of an 
inch thick. Dip each slice ia flour, and brown it in a 
little hot fat in a frying-pan. Serve with maple syrup. 

Oatmeal, corn-meal, and hominy are especially suitable 
for frying in this way. 



[126] 



BOILED MACARONI 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

% dup macaxoni — broken into one- Saucepan 

inch pieces Quart measure 

2 quarts boiling water Colander 

1 tablespoon salt 
White Sauce No. 2 

or 
Tomato Sauce 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Pour the boiling water into a saucepan over the fire, 

add the salt and macaroni, and boil for twenty 
minutes. 

2. Pour the macaroni from the saucepan into a colander, 

letting the water drain away; then pour cold water 
over the macaroni. 

3. Prepare White Sauce No. 2 in accordance with the 

directions on page 150, or Tomato Sauce in accord- 
ance with the directions on page 50, add the 
boiled macaroni to the sauce, and reheat. 



[ 127} 



BAKED MACARONI 

Add 1 cup of White Sauce No. 2 (page 150) to Boiled 
Macaroni, put the mixture in a buttered baking-dish, 
cover with bread crumbs, and bake until it browns on 
top. Tomato Sauce (page 50) may be used instead of 
White Sauce, if desired. 



BAKED MACARONI WITH CHEESE 

Put a layer of Boiled Macaroni in a buttered baking- 
dish, and cover it with grated cheese. Repeat these al- 
ternate layers of macaroni and grated cheese imtil all the 
macaroni has been used; then poiu* one cup of White 
Sauce No. 2 (page 150) over the mixture, cover it with 
buttered crumbs, and bake until it is brown on top. 

REMARKS 

Spaghetti may be used in place of macaroni in this and 
the two preceding recipes. 



{128] 



RICE CROQUETTES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

H cup rice Strainer 

1 egg Saucepan 

1 teaspoon butter Plate 

14 teaspoon salt 2 bowls 

Bread crumbs Dover beater 

Fat for frying Frying-kettle 

Colander with paper 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Wash the rice in a strainer. 

2. Put a pint or two of hot water into a saucepan, set 

the saucepan over the fire, and let the water come 
to a boil. 

3. Add the rice to the rapidly boiliag water, and allow 

it to boil twenty minutes. 

4. Take from the fire, drain off the water through a 

strainer, put the rice in a bowl, and add the butter 
and salt. 

5. Beat the egg in a bowl, add half of it to the rice, and 

mix well. 

6. Put the rice on a plate, spreading it out thinly, and 

let it become thoroughly cold. 

7. Mould the rice into small balls or cylinders, dip each 

ball in the beaten egg in the bowl, then roll it in 
crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat until well browned. 

8. Put each croquette as it is taken from the fat onto 

soft crumpled paper in a colander. 



[129] 




BOILED EGGS 

The time required for boiling eggs, if the water is at 
the boiling-point when the eggs are put into it, is approxi- 
mately as follows: Soft Boiled, from two to two and a 
half minutes; Medium Boiled, from three to three and a 
half minutes; Hard Boiled, from four to five minutes. 
Hard-boiled eggs to be used cold in salads, etc., should be 
put into water at the boiling-point and the heat then re- 
duced so that the eggs will cook very slowly for twenty 
minutes. 

BAKED EGGS 



1. 



2. 



Break the eggs into a well-buttered baking-dish, and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. A little cream may 
be poured onto each egg to advantage, or the tops 
covered with grated cheese. 

Set the baking-dish in a moderate oven, and bake for 
ten minutes. 



{130] 



FRIED EGGS 

Put 3 or 4 tablespoons of bacon grease or similar fat 
into a frying-pan, set the pan over the fire, and 
heat until the grease begins to smoke. 

While the fat is heating, break as many eggs as will 
be needed into a bowl. 

Pour the eggs carefully into the hot fat, and with a 
spoon dip up the fat and pour it over the eggs, 
while allowing them to cook slowly from three to 
five minutes. Separate the eggs with a knife if 
they run together while cooking. If desired, the 
eggs may be turned with a pancake-turner and 
browned on the under side. 



POACHED EGGS 

1. FiU a frying-pan half full of hot water, and set it over 

the fire. 

2. Add 1 tablespoon of vinegar to the water, and let it 

barely simmer. 

3. Break the eggs, one at a time, into a saucer, and slip 

each egg into the water in the frying-pan. 

4. With a spoon dip up the water and pour it over the 

eggs while they are cooking. 
6. Cook from three to five minutes, and serve on slices 
of hot buttered toast, which should be made before 
poaching the eggs. 



tisi} 



SCRAMBLED EGGS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

3 eggs Bowl 

J^ teaspoon salt Dover beater 

Pepper Tablespoon 

a cup milk Frying-pan 
1 tablespoon butter 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Break the eggs into a bowl, beat with a dover beater, 

add the salt, pepper, and milk, and stir well to- 
gether. 

2. Set the frying-pan over a slow fire, and put the butter 

in it to' melt and heat. 

3. Pour the mixture from the bowl into the frying-pan, 

and with a spoon begin at once to scrape from the 
sides of the pan toward the centre, keeping the 
mixture from sticking to the pan and allowing it 
to cook evenly. 

4. When the mixture has become of a jelly-like con- 

sistency, take the frying-pan from the fire, turn 
the contents out on a hot platter, and serve at 
once. 

REMARKS 

Garnish with bits of buttered toast and a few sprigs 
of parsley. Any of the following materials may, if de- 
sired, be added to the eggs just before cooking: 

14 cup tomato pulp 
1 tablespoon chopped parsley 
1 tablespoon chopped green pepper 
1 tablespoon chopped pimento 
}i cup grated cheese 
J^ cup boiled ham — chopped 
3 or 4 slices cooked bacon cut in small pieces. 
[132] 



OMELET 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 eggs 2 bowls 

J^ teaspoon salt Dover beater 

Pepper Tablespoon 

2 tablespoons milk or water Omelet-pan 

1 tablespoon butter Falette-knife 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Break the eggs, putting the yolks in one bowl and 

the whites in another. 

2. Beat the yolks until they are thick and creamy. 

3. Add the milk or water, with the salt and pepper, to 

the beaten yolks, and beat again. 

4. Beat the egg-whites until they are stiff and dry, and 

then "fold" them into the mixture in the other 
bowl. 

5. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan, and pour the 

mixture into this. 

6. With the fire turned very low, cook the omelet until 

it is a light brown on the under side, using a palette- 
knife to lift the edges from the pan. 

7. Put the omelet-pan in the lower oven of the stove, 

and allow the omelet to cook slowly on top. 

8. Take from the oven, fold one half of the omelet 

over the other half, slip it from the pan to a hot 
platter, and serve at once. 

REMARKS 

Any of the optional ingredients mentioned at the end 
of the recipe for Scrambled Eggs (page 132) may also be 
added to an omelet, if desired. 



[133] 



HOT "BREADS <^ND 
QRIDDLE^C^KES 



BAKERS BREAD IS NOW SO GENERALLY USED IN PLACE 
OF HOME-MADE BREAD, EXCEPT IN THOSE HOUSEHOLDS 
WHERE PROFESSIONAL COOKS ARE EMPLOYED, THAT 
THE ORDINARY RECIPES FOR YEAST BREAD HAVE BEEN 
OMITTED FROM THIS BOOK. 



BAKING-POWDER BISCUIT 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 



1 cup flour 

2 teaspoons baking-powder 
}4 teaspoon salt 

J^ tablespoon butter 

y^ tablespoon lard or similar fat 

6 or 7 tablespoons milk 



Mixing-bowl 

Sifter 

Palette-knife 

Bread-board 

RoUing-pin 

Biscuit-cutter 

Baking-pan 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Sift the flour, baking-powder, and salt together into 

a mixing-bowl. 

2. Add the butter and lard, and with the finger-tips rub 

and work this shortening into the dry materials 
until no lumps remain. 

3. Add the milk, a little at a time, and with a palette- 

knife mix untU all the dry materials are moistened. 
[134] 



BAKING-POWDER BISCUIT— Continued 

4. Sprinkle flour on the bread-board and rolling-pin, 

place the dough on the board and toss it about 
lightly until it is coated with flour. 

5. With the rolHng-pin roll out the dough lightly into a 

sheet about J^ inch thick, dip the bisciiit-cutter 
into the flour and cut the biscuits out from the 
sheet of dough. The scraps of dough left after 
cutting should be worked up again into a ball of 
dough, rolled out, and cut as before. 

6. Place the biscuits in a baking-pan, and bake in a hot 

oven about ten minutes, or until lightly browned. 



[135] 



PLAIN MUFFINS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 egg Mixing-bowl 

^2 oup milk Dover beater 

1 cup flour Sifter 

2 teaspoons baiking-powder Tablespoon 

1^ teaspoon salt Small saucepan 

J^ tablespoon sugar MuflBn-pans 

2 tablespoons butter 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Break the egg into a mixing-bowl, beat it, and stir 

the milk into it. 

2. Mix the flour, baking-powder, salt, and sugar in the 

sifter, and sift these into the milk and egg, stirring 
well together. 

3. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add it to the 

batter, and beat thoroughly. 

4. Butter the muflSn-pans, and fill them about two- 

thirds full of the batter. 
6. Bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes, or 
imtil the muflSns are browned. 



RICE OR OATMEAL MUFFINS 

Follow the directions for Plain MuflSns as given above, 
adding J^ to ^ of a cup of cold cooked rice or oatmeal 
to the batter before pouring it into the muflSn-pans. 



[136] 



BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 tablespoons butter Mixing-bowl 

3 tablespoons sugar Tablespoon 

1 egg 2 small bowls 
J^ cup blueberries Dover beater 
1}4 cups flour Colander 

2 teaspoons baking-powder Sifter 

j/^ teaspoon salt MufSn-pans 

14 cup milk 

DIRECTIONS 

1. "Cream" the butter in a mixing-bowl. 

2. Add the sugar, and "cream" again. 

3. Beat the egg in a small bowl, and stir one-half of it 

only (about 2 tablespoons) into the butter and sugar. 

4. Wash the berries in a colander, let the water drain 

off, then put them into a small bowl and sift J^ 
cup of flour over them, mixing well. 

5. Mix the rest of the flour with the baking-powder and 

salt in a sifter, and sift it, a little at a time and 
alternately with the milk, into the butter-sugar-egg 
mixture, and' beat thoroughly. 

6. Stir the berries into the batter. 

7. Butter the muflBn-pans, fill them two-thirds full of 

the batter, and bake in a moderate oven twenty to 
thirty minutes, or until lightly browned. 

REMARKS 

Small raisins or dried currants may be used instead of 
the blueberries, if desired. 



[137} 



CORN BREAD OR MUFFINS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 egg Mixing-bowl 

1 cup milk Dover beater 

^ cup corn-meal Tablespoon 

%, cup flour Sifter 

3 teaspoons baking-powder Small saucepan 

% teaspoon salt MufiSn-pan or cake-pan 

1 tablespoon sugar 

2 tablespoons butter 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Beat the egg in a mixing-bowl. 

2. Add the milk, and stir. 

3. Measm-e the flour, salt, baking-powder, and sugar 

into the sifter, and sift it into the milk and egg, 
stirring well together. 

4. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add it to the 

batter, and beat thoroughly. 

6. Butter the muflBn-pans or cake-pan. Pour the bat- 
ter into the cake-pan, or fill the muffin-pans two- 
thirds full of the batter. 

6. Bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes, or 
until browned on top. 

REMARKS 

Sour milk may be used instead of sweet milk. In this 
case use only 1 teaspoon of baking-powder, and stir ^ 
teaspoon of soda into the sour nulk. 

Melted bacon grease or similar fat may be used instead 
of butter. 



[138] 



POPOVERS 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 egg Mixing-bowl 

1 cup milk Dover beater 

1 cup flour Sifter 

}4 teaspoon salt Large spoon 

Mu£Sn-pans 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Beat the egg in a mixing-bowl. 

2. Add the milk, and stir together. 

3. Sift the flour and salt into the milk and egg, and stir. 

4. Beat steadily with the dover beater for at least five 

minutes. 
6. Butter the muflSn-pans thoroughly and pour the 

batter into them, filling them two-thirds full. 
6. Bake in a moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. 

After the first fifteen minutes of baking, the heat 

should be reduced somewhat. 



REMARKS 

Popovers should always be served hot from the oven 
— ^if allowed to cool even slightly, they become soggy and 
unpalatable. 



t 139 1 



FRENCH OR FRIED BREAD 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

4 slices of bread Bowl 

2 eggs Dover beater 

Ji oup milk Frying-pan 

Salt Long-handled fork 

Fat for frying 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Beat the egg in a bowl, and stir the milk and salt in 

with it. 

2. Dip each slice of bread in the beaten egg and milk. 

3. Fry the slices in hot fat in a frying-pan, until well 

browned on both sides. 



REMARKS 
Serve plain, or with maple syrup. 



C 140] 



MILK TOAST 

MATERIALS 

4 slices of bread 
White Sauce No. 1 
Boiling water 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Toast the bread, and keep it in a warm place until 

the sauce is made. 

2. Make White Sauce No. 1 in accordance with direc- 

tions on page 150. 

3. Pour 1 tablespoon of boiling water over each slice of 

toast, place the slices in a serving-dish, and pour 
i the White Sauce over them. 



REMARKS 

To make Cream Toast, use twice as much butter for 
the White Sauce, or substitute cream for milk. 



[141] 



WHEAT CAKES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 egg Mixing-bowl 

1 cup milk Dover beater 

1 cup flour Sifter 

1 teaspoon baking-powder Tablespoon 

^ teaspoon salt Small saucepan 

}4 tablespoon butter Pancake-turner 

Kece of salt pork Griddle or frying-pan 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Break the egg into a mixing-bowl, beat it, and re- 

move half of it (about 2 tablespoons), stirring the 
milk with what remains in the bowl. 

2. Measure the flour, baking-powder, and salt into the 

sifter, and sift into the nailk and egg, stirring well. 

3. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add it to the 

batter, and beat thoroughly. 

4. Set the griddle or frying-pan over the fire, and when 

it is very hot rub it with the salt pork. 

5. Pour the batter on the griddle or frying-pan by the 

tablespoonful, letting each spoonful spread as 
much as it will before adding another, and keep- 
ing them well separated. 

6. Run the pancake-turner beneath each cake once or 

twice while it is cooking; and when it has slightly 
browned on the bottom, turn it over and allow the 
other side to brown. 

7. Grease the griddle or frying-pan often between the 

various relays of cakes. 

REMARKS 

Sour milk may be used with this recipe, in which case 
omit the baking-powder and mix J^ teaspoon of soda with 
the sour milk. 

[142 3 



BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 cups milk Double-boiler 

a cup fine bread crumbs Mi$ing-bowl 

J^ teaspoon salt Small bowl 

}i yeast cake Mixing-spoon 

}4 cup luke-warm water Pancake-turner 

1% cups buckwheat flour Griddle or frying-pan 

1 tablespoon molasses 

Piece of salt pork 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Scald the milk in a double-boiler. 

2. Measure the bread crumbs and salt into a mixing- 

bowl, add the milk to them, mix, and let stand 
thirty minutes. 

3. Measure the lukewarm water into a small bowl, add 

the yeast to it, and with a spoon stir and rub the 
yeast until it is dissolved. 

4. Potu" the liquid yeast into the milk and bread crumbs, 

mix, and add the buckwheat fiour. Beat well, and 
let the mixture stand overnight, covering the bowl 
with a clean towel. 

5. In the morning add the molasses, and stir well. 

6. Cook on a griddle or frying-pan as directed in the 

preceding recipe for Wheat Cakes. 

CORN CAKES 

Follow the same general directions as given for Wheat 
Cakes (page 142), but use only J^ cup of flour, and add 
y^ cup of corn-meal. 



[143} 




STEWED FRESH FRUIT 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

Fruit Vegetable-knife 

Sugar Colander 

Water Covered saucepan 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Prepare the fruit by peeling, removing seeds or core, 

and cutting in small pieces. Berries will need 
stemming and washing only. 

2. Measure the fruit, put it in a saucepan, and add one- 

third as much water as there is fruit. 

3. Set the saucepan over the fire, and cook slowly from 

ten to twenty minutes, or until the fruit is tender. 

4. Add sugar in the proportion of 1 cup of sugar to 4 

cups of fruit, and continue to cook until the sugar 
dissolves. 

5. Take the saucepan from the fire and let the fruit cool. 

REMARKS 

The proportion of sugar to fruit above mentioned is 
approximate only, and really depends upon the relative 
sweetness or sourness of the particular fruit that is being 
used. 

[144] 



STEWED DRIED FRUIT 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

J^ pound dried fruit Covered saucepan 

yi to '}^ cup sugar 

DIRECTIONS 

1. Wash the fruit very carefully in plenty of water, 

2. Put the fruit in a saucepan, cover with water, and 

let it stand overnight. 
3r Set the saucepan over a slow fire, cover it, let the 

fruit come to a boil, and then simmer for two hours. 
4. Add the sugar to the fruit, and when it is dissolved 

take the saucepan from the fire and let the fruit 

cool. 

REMARKS 

Apricots and peaches require more, and figs and prunes 
less, sugar than apples. 



C 145 ] 



BAKED APPLES 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 large perfect apples Baking-dish 

J^ cup sugar Apple-oorer 

Vegetable-knife 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Wash the apples and remove the cores. 

2. Put the apples in a baking-dish, fill the hollow centres 

of the apples with sugar, and sprinkle the remaining 
sugar around the apples in the baking-dish. 

3. Pour }4 cup of water into the baking-dish aroimd 

'he apples, and set the dish in a slow oven to bake 
from thirty to forty-five minutes, or until the apples 
are tender and slightly browned. 

4. Take the dish from the oven, and let the apples cool 

before serving. 



REMARKS 

Baked apples are sometimes served with roast pork, in 
which case they should be hot. 

A few raisins and a little spice may be put into the 
hollow centres of the apples before baking, if desired. 



i:i46] 



CRANBERRY SAUCE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

1 cup cranberries Saucepan 

Ji cup sugar Colander 

K cup water Bowl 

Potato-masher 

Mould 

Tablespoon 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Wash the eranberries, put them in a saucepan, and 

add the water. 

2. Set the saucepan over the fire, and cook slowly until 

the cranberries are tender and may \0 easily 
mashed. 

3. Mash the cranberries through a colander into a bowl, 

using the potato-masher. 

4. Stir the sugar with the cranberries, put them back 

into the saucepan, and place again on the fire until 
the boiling-point is reached. 

5. Pour the sauce into a mould, and set in a cool place 

to stiffen. 



[147] 



APPLE SAUCE 

MATERIALS UTENSILS 

6 medium-sized apples Vegetable-knife 

% cup sugar Covered saucepan 

li4 cups water Tablespoon 

Colander 
Potato-masher 



DIRECTIONS 

1. Cut the apples in eighths, peel, and cut away the 

core. 

2. Put the apples in a saucepan, and add the water. 

3. Cover the saucepan, set it over the fire, and let sim- 

mer slowly about twenty minutes. 

4. Take from the fire, drain off most of the water, mash 

the apples through a colander into a bowl, and add 
the sugar. 

5. Put the apple sauce back in the saucepan, set over 

the fire, and let it cook slowly about five minutes. 

REMARKS 

One-half teaspoon of spice or the juice of half a lemon 
may be added, if desired. Apple sauce is usually served 
cold, but should be hot if served with roast pork. 



C148 3 



RHUBARB SAUCE 



MATERIALS UTENSILS 

2 cups rhubarb Tablespoon 

% cup sugar Vegetable-knife 

yi cup water Saucepan 



DIRECTIONS 

Peel the rhubarb, and cut it into pieces about 1 inch 
long. 

Put the pieces in a saucepan, add the water and 
sugar, and cook very slowly until tender. Or, the 
rhubarb, sugar, and water may be put into a covered 
baking-dish, and cooked in a slow oven for about 
one hour. 



[149] 




Many of the recipes in this book call for one or an- 
other of three different forms of white sauce. These 
forms vary only as regards the amount of their principal 
ingredients, the process of making and the utensils re- 
quired being the same in all three cases. The three 
varieties may therefore be differentiated, in respect to the 
ingredients required, as follows: 

No. 1 (FOR SOUPS, etc.) No. 2 ( FOR VEGETABLES, 

MEAT, AND FISH) 
1 cup milk 1 cup milk 

1 tablespoon flour 2 tablespoons flour 

1 tablespoon butter 2 tablespoons butter 

i^ teaspoon salt i4 teaspoon salt 



No. 3 (.FOR CROQUETTES, etc.) 



1 cup milk 
4 tablespoons flour 
4 tablespoons butter 
^ teaspoon salt 



DIRECTIONS 



1, Put the flour and butter in a saucepan, carefully keep- 
ing them on opposite sides of the pan. 
[150] 



WHITE SAUCES— Continued 

2. Hold the saucepan over the fire, allowing the butter 

to melt slowly. 

3. Mix the flour and melted butter together, and add the 

salt. 

4. Add half the milk, and stir constantly until the mix- 

ture begins to thicken. 

5. Add the rest of the milk, and stir until the boiliag- 

point is reached. 

REMARKS 

White Sauce must not be left on the fire an instant 
without Stirling, and the spoon in stirring must always 
touch the bottom of the saucepan. 



{151] 




Apple Sauce, 148 
Apples, Baked, 146 
Aitichokes, French, 60 
Artichokes, Jerusalem, 60 
Asparagus, 61 

"Bakii^," Definition of, 9 
Baking-Powder Biscuit, 134 
"Basting," Definition of, 9 
Beans, Baked, 75 
Beans, Shell, 61 
Beans, String, 62 
"Beating," Definition of, 9 
Beef Casserole, 41 
Beets, Boiled, 62 
Beets, Pickled, 62 
BEVERAGES, HOT, 122-124 
Biscuit, Baking-Powder, 134 
Blanc Mange, 99 
Blueberry Muffins, 137 
Boiled Dinner, 43 
Boiled Dressing, 84 
Boiled Frosting, 113 
"Boiling," Definition of, 9 
Boihng of Liquids, 8 
Bouillon, 15 
Bread Crumbs, 13 
Bread Pudding, 93 
BREADS, HOT, AND GRID- 
DLE-CAKES, 134-143 
"Broiling," Definition of, 9 
Brussels Sprouts, 62 

[ 



Buckwheat Cakes, 143 
Butter, Measurement of, 7 
Buttered Bread Crumbs, 13 
Buttering Baking-Dishes, 12 

Cabbage, 63 

CAKES, COOKIES, ETC.. 

103-114 
Caramel Frosting, 114 
Caramel Ice Cream, 117 
Caramel Sauce, 121 
Carrots, 63 
Cauliflower, 63 
Celery, 63 

CEREALS, 125-129 
Cereals, Boiled, 125 
Cereals, Fried, 126 
Cheese Crackers, 20 
Chicken, Broiled, S3 
Chicken, Creamed, 58 
Chicken Fricassee, 56 
Chicken, Fried, 54 
Chicken Pie, 57 
Chicken, Roast, 51 
Chocolate, 124 
Chocolate Corn-Starch Pudding, 

99 
Chocolate Frosting, 113 
Chocolate Ice Cream, 117 
Chops, Broiled, 36 
Cocoa, 123 
Cocoanut Pie, 90 

153 ] 



Codfish Balls, 31 
Codfish, Creamed, 30 
Coffee, 122 
Coffee Jelly, 97 
Consomm^, 15 
Cookies, 109 
Com, 64 
Corn Bread, 138 
Cork Cakes, 143 
Corn Fritters, 77 
Corn-Meal, 125, 126 
Corn Muffins, 138 
Com-Starch Pudding, 99 
Corned Beef, Boiled, 43 
Corned-Beef Hash, 44 
Cottage Pudding, 91 
Crackers, Cheese, 20 
Crackers, Toasted, 20 
Cranberry Sauce, 147 
Cream of Vegetable Soup, 17 
Cream Toast, 141 
"Creaming," Definition of, 9 
Creole Soup, 19 
Croutons, 20 
Cucumbers, 64 
Cup Cakes, 106 
Custard, Baked, 92 
Custard Pie, 90 
Custard Sauce, 100 
Custard Souffle, 95 
Custard Tapioca, 94 
"Cutting and Folding," Defini- 
tion of, 10 

Double-Boiler, Use of, 12 
Doughnuts, 111 
"Dredging," Definition of, 10 
Dried Beef, Creamed, 47 
Duck, Creamed, 58 
Duck, Roast, 51 

Easy Cake, 103 

Egg- Yolks and Whites, Method 

of Separating, 13 
Eggplant, Fried, 74 



EGGS, 130-133 
Eggs, Baked, 130 
Eggs, Boiled, 130 
Eggs, Fried, 131 
Eggs, Poached, 131 
Eggs, Scrambled, 132 

Fat, Care and Use of, 12-13 
FISH, 21-33 
Fish, Baked, 23 
Fish, Boiled, 26 
Fish Broiled in Erying-Pan, 22 
Fish Broiled in Oven, 21 
Fish, Creamed, 27 
Flour, Measurement of, 7 
French Dressing, 82 
French Fried Potatoes, 70 
French Ice Cream, 116 
French or Fried Bread, 140 
Frostings for Cakes, 113-114 
Fruit Ice Cream, 117 
Fruit Sauces, 147-149 
Fruit, Stewed Dried, 145 
Fruit, Stewed Fresh, 144 
FRUITS, 144-149 
"Frying," Definition of, 10 
Frying in "Deep Fat," 13 
Fudge Sauce, 121 

Gelatine Puddings, 97, 98 
German Fried Potatoes, 70 
Gingerbread, 108 
Goose, Roast, 51 
Gravy for Bated Fish, 25 
Gravy for Fried Chicken, 55 
Gravy for Roast Meat, 35 
Gravy for Roast Poultry, 52 
Greens, 64 
Griddle-Cakes, 142, 143 

Ham, Baked, 39 
Ham, Broiled, 39 
Hard Sauce, 100 
Hash, Corned-Beef, 44 
Heat, Regulation of, 7-8 



[154] 



Hollandaise Sauce, 32 
Hominy, 125, 126 
Horseradish Sauce, 50 
"Hot Oven," Definition of, 8 

ICE CREAM AND ICES, 115- 

121 
Ice Cream and Ices, Directions 

for Freezing, 120 
Icings for Cakes, 113-114 
Irish Stew, 40 

Eatchen Equipment, 3-4 
Kitchen Necessities, List of, 4 
Kitchen Supphes, 3-4 

Lemon Butter Sauce, 33 

Lemon Jelly, 97 

Lemon Pie, 89 

Lemon Sauce, 101 

Liver and Bacon, Broiled, 46 

"Lukewarm," Definition of, 10 

Macaroni, Baked, 128 
Macaroni, Baked with Cheese, 

128 
Macaroni, Boiled, 127 
Mayonnaise, 83 
Measuring, Directions for, 6-7 
Meat Croquettes, 48 
Meat, Roast, 34 
MEATS, 34-50 
Meringue for Pies or Puddings, 

90 
Milk Toast, 141 
"Mincing," Definition of, 10 
"Mixing," Definition of, 10 
"Moderate Oven," Definition of, 

8 



Oatmeal Muffins, 136 
Oats, Prepared, 125, 126 
Omelet, 133 
Onions, 64 
Orange Jelly, 97 
Oyster Plant, 65 
Oyster Stew, 18 
Oyster Stuffing, 59 
Oysters, Pried, 28 
Oysters, Scalloped, 29 

"Parboiling," Definition of, 10 

Parsnips, 65 

PASTRY, 85-90 

Pastry, Plain, for Pies, 85 

Peas, 65 

Peppers, Stuffed, 76 

Pies, 85-90 

Pies, Dried or Canned Fruit, 87 

Pies, Fresh Fruit or Berry, 87 

Plain Ice Cream, 115 

Plain Muffins, 136 

Plain Stuffing, 58 

Popovers, 139 

Potato Cakes, 73 

Potato Souffle, 73 

Potato Stuffing, 59 

Potatoes, Baked, 69 

Potatoes, Boiled, 66 

Potatoes, Fried, 70 

Potatoes, Hashed Brown, 71 

Potatoes, Mashed, 68 

Potatoes, Scalloped, 72 

Potatoes, Stuffed, 69 

POULTRY, 51-59 

Poultry, Roast, 51 

Pound Cake, 104 

PUDDINGS, 91-102 

Pumpkin Pie, 88 



Muffins, Blueberry, 137 
Muffins, Com, 138 
Muffins, Oatmeal, 136 
Muffins, Plain, 136 
Muffins, Rice, 136 



Recipe, Handling the, 5-6 
Rhubarb Sauce, 149 
Rice, 125, 126 
Rice Croquettes, 129 
Rice Muffins, 136 

[155] 



Rice Pudding, 96 
"Roasting," Definition of, 10 

Salad Dre8sing8,^2-84 
Salad, Tomato-Jelly, 81 
SALADS AND SALAD DRESS- 
INGS, 79-84 
Salads, Fruit, 80 
Salads, Green, 79 
Salads, Meat and Fish, 80 
Salads, Vegetable, 79 
Saratoga Chips, 70 
Sauces for Fish, 32-33 
Sauces for Ice Cream, 121 
Sauces for Meats, 50 
Sauces for Puddings, 100-102 
Sausage, Broiled or Baked, 45 
"Searing," Definition of, 11 
Sherbet, 119 

"Shredding," Definition of, 11 
"Simmer," Definition of, 11 
"Singe," Definition of, 11 
"Slow Oven," Definition of, 8 
Snow Pudding, 98 
Soup Accessories, 20 
Soup Stock, 14 
SOUPS, 14r-20 
Spaghetti, 128 
Spinach — see Greens 
Spinach k la Bechamel, 78 
Sponge Cake, 105 
Squash Fie, 88 
Squash, Summer, 66 
Squash, Winter, 66 
Steaks, Broiled, 36 
"Steaming," Definition of, 11 
"Steeping," Definition of, 11 



"Stewing," Definition of, H 
"Stirring," Definition of, H 
Stoves and Fuel, 7 
Strawberry Sauce, 101 
Strawberry Shortcake, 107 
Stufling for Baked Fish, 24 
Stuffings for Poultry, 58 
Supplies, Staple, List of, 4 

Tapioca Custard, 94 
Tea, 122 

"Threading," Definition of, 12 
Toad-in-the-Hole, 49 
Tomato-Jelly Salad, 81 
Tomato Sauce, 50 
Tomatoes, 66 
Turkey, Creamed, 58 
Turkey, Roast, 51 
Turnips, 67 

Utensils for Cooking, List of, 4 
Utensils for Preparing and Mix- 
ing, List of, 4 

Vanilla Sauce, 102 
Veal Cutlets, 37 
Veal Loaf, 38 
Vegetable Soup, 16, 17 
VEGETABLES, 60-78 
Vegetables, Creamed, 67 
Vegetables, Seasoning of, 67 

Water Ice, 118 
Wheat Cakes, 142 
Wheat, Prepared, 125, 126 
WHITE SAUCES, 150-151 



[156] 



