X 731 
,G8 
^opy 1 



WHAT TO SERVE AT PARTIES 




l^^iy^i 



What to Serve at Parties 



MENUS and RECIPES for DINNERS, LUNCHEONS, 
AFTERNOON TEA, SUPPERS, BRIDAL BREAK- 
FASTS and CHILDREN'S PARTIES 

"There was feasting and merry- 
making for seventy days — " so the old 
fairy tales always ended. From the very 
earliest times the feast has been our 
symbol of joy, and every hostess knows 
that much of her success in entertaining 
depends on what she serves. 

The menus which make up this 
booklet are suggestive only, and allow 
of changes or combinations to suit 
individual needs. Recipes are given 
for dishes marked with asterisks; di- 
rections for the others may be found 
in any reliable cook-book. 

All the menus and recipes are com- 
piled from McCall's, and were pre- 
pared by Lilian M. Gunn, Instructor, 
Department of Foods and Cookery, 
Teacher's College, Columbia University. 



-^ 



©C1A69G033 

Copyright, 1922, by The McCall Company 



DKi8?; 



(\\6 



^ TX73/ 

»^ .Q-? The Dinner Party 



.^ "YY/HEN you entertain, at dinner, without the help of servants, let the menu 

j W consist of dishes that may be prepared in advance and left a little while 

jV to keep cool, or warm as the case may be, without destroying their flavor. The 

. first course may be on the table when the guests arrive, provided it is a fruit 

^<3 cocktail, or oysters or clams on the half shell. 

A roast is a good choice for the second course; but have the gravy made and 
■^ keeping hot in a double boiler; or else have a sauce such as mint or caper ready. 
If the green vegetable is peas, beans, asparagus or sprouts, it may be kept hot 
over hot water until the psychological moment. The best kind of potatoes would 
be those in a baking-dish or casserole. The accompanying jelly or pickles may be 
already in place on the table, or on the side table. 

The salad should be in the ice-box carefully arranged on the plates and placed 
on a tray so that only one trip will be necessary. The dressing stands beside it 
ready to be added just before serving. The dessert should be one that requires 
no last-minute bustling about. A gelatine in a dainty mold can be turned out in 
advance and put in the ice-box. A lemon meringue pie is delicious and involves 
no trouble. Or perhaps a cold pudding will be the climax of the meal. If whipped 
cream or sauce is required, it too, may be ready ahead of time. 

It is far more important for the hostess to be with her guests in the dining- 
room than preparing food in the kitchen. Her roles of cook and waitress should 
be as inconspicious as possible. 

If coffee is to be the last on the menu, it should be ground and in the pot, 
ready to put on the stove between courses. Then it will be fresh and hot when 
it is needed. The coffee service may be ready on a tray in the pantry or on the 
sideboard or side table. Salted nuts and stuffed fruit or bonbons should also be 
ready. 

Some Menus for Dinners 

Beef Bouillon Crisp Crackers 

Roast Lamb with Brown Gravy 

Peas Mashed Brown Potatoes 

Mint Jelly 

Cheese Straws Cucumber Salad with French Dressing 

♦Pistachio Ice-Cream 

Salted Nuts White Cakes 

Coffee 



Clear Tomato Soup Soup Sticks 

Roast Chicken 

String Beans Sweet Potatoes 

Sweet Pickles 

Wafers Hearts of Lettuce Salad and Russian Dressing 

Chocolate Pie 

Stuffed Figs Coffee 



Fruit Cocktail 

Fillet of Beef Mushroom Sauce 

Peas and Carrots Baked Potatoes 

Cream Pie 

Stuffed Dates and Coffee 



Clear Chicken Soup 

Roast Beef Toasted Saltines 

Beets Duchess Potatoes 

Cold Slaw 

Pineapple Salad and Cheese Crackers Bavarian Cream 

Cheese Dates Yellow Sponge Cake 

Coffee 

Dinners for Special Occasions 

Christmas or Thanksgiving Menus 

Honey Dew Melons 
*Halibut Turbans with Hollandaise Sauce and French Potato Balls 

Roast Turkey with Stuffing and Gravy, Cranberry Sauce 
Baked Onions String Beans White Potatoes 

Celery 

Red Apple Salad and Cheese Straws 

Lemon, *Pumpkin or Mince Pie *Plum Pudding with Foamy Sauce 

Nuts and Raisins Peppermints 

Coffee Grape Juice 



Oysters on the Half Shell and Toaster Crackers 

Chicken Pie 

Beets Parsnips Squash Mashed Potatoes 

Sweet Pickle 

Pineapple and Cream Cheese Salad with Wafers 

Cranberry or Custard Pie 

or 

Thanksgiving Pudding with Hard Sauce 

Salted Nuts Stuffed Dates 

Coffee Fruit Punch 



Oysters on the Half Shell 

Roast Turkey with *Nut-Stuffing 

Creamed Cauliflower Baked Onions Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Celery 

*Frozen Cranberries 

*Pecan and Grape Salad with Wafers 

Apple or Pumpkin Pie 

Nuts Raisins 

Coffee 



Cream of Corn Soup with Popcorn Garnish 

Stuffed Baked Fresh Ham 

Mashed Brown Potatoes Succotash 

Cold Slaw or Sweet Pickles 

♦Filled Red Apple Salad with Cheese Straws 

*Fig Pudding Spiced Raisins 

Coffee Salted Butternuts 



Easter Dinners 

Yellow and Green Color Scheme 

Spinach Soup Egg-Yolk Garnish 

Green Olives 

Roast Capon Potatoes with Parsley 

Creamed Onions Peas in Timbales 

*Water-Lily Salad and Cheese Ring 

*Topaz Ice 

Cakes (spread with peanut butter and garnished 

with candied orange peel) 

Salted Pecans Coffee 



Violet Color Scheme 

Grape Fruit a la Violette 

Saddle of Mutton with Mint and Currant Sauce 

Quartered Brown Potatoes String Beans 

Easter-Egg Salad and Crisped Rye Crackers 

Cakes (frosted with maple 
*Violet Ice sugar and a candied 

violet on each) 
Stuffed Dates Coffee 



Oyster Bouillon and Toasted Oatmeal Crackers 

Radishes 

Creamed Asparagus (in shells made of toasted bread) 

Broiled Fresh Salmon 

New Green Cabbage Duchess Potatoes 

Ripe Olives 

Romaine or Lettuce Salad and Corn Cuts 

Ginger Sherbet 

*Angel Parfait Pastry Fingers 

Coffee 

Fish Dinners 

*Fish Chowder 

Fried Fish Steaks 

Pickled Beets String Beans 

Escalloped Potatoes 

Dressed Shrimps on Lettuce Leaves 

Grape- Juice Ice 

Coffee Plain Cookies 



Salmon Soup 

Baked Haddock with Tartare Sauce 

Sweet Pickles Mashed Brown Potatoes 

Buttered Peas Apple Pie and Cheese 

Coffee 



Oyster Soup 

Broiled Mackerel with Drawn-Butter Sauce 

Potatoes au Gratin Stewed Tomatoes 

Dressed Lettuce with Sardine Garnish 

Orange Jelly 

Coffee Wafers 

Simple Menus for Luncheons or Suppers 

Broiled Lamb Chops 

Creamed Potatoes and Peas 

Hot French Biscuits Coffee 



Scalloped Salmon Lima Beans 

Toasted Cucumber Sandwiches 

Coffee 



Creamed Oysters French Fried Potatoes 

Baked Stuffed Peppers 

Cake Coffee 



Cold Tongue or Ham Celery or Potato Salad 

Sandwiches 

Cocoa with Whipped Cream Cookies 

Recipes for Novel Dinner-Dishes 

HALIBUT TURBANS 

A slice of halibut ( 1 >^ pounds) % teaspoonful pepper 

% cupful melted butter or butter sub- 2 teaspoonfuls lemon juice 
stitute Few drops onion juice 

14 teaspoonful salt 

Clean fish and cut into 8 fillets. Add seasonings to melted butter. Take up 
each fillet with a fork, dip in butter, roll and fasten with a small wooden skewer. 
Put into a pan, dredge with flour and bake in a hot oven (20 minutes). Re- 
move skewer and arrange on plate for serving. Garnish. 

FISH CHOWDER 

3 pounds cod or haddock 2 tablespoon fuls butter 

2-inch cube fat salt pork 1 quart potato cubes 

1 sliced onion % teaspoonful pepper 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 1 quart hot mOk 

Have the fish skinned. Cut fish from backbone and divide in 2-inch pieces. 
Put head, backbone and tail in kettle with one quart cold water; heat slowly and 
cook about 30 minutes. Parboil potatoes for half an hour. Fry onion with pork. 
Strain fat into clean kettle. Put in fish and potatoes and over them strain the 
broth from the bones. Cook until potatoes are tender. Add seasoning, milk and 
crackers, if desired. 



TURKEY STUFFING WITH NUTS 

2 cupfuls nuts. If chestnuts, blanch and cook until tender and then put 
through a ricer. Walnuts may be chopped in the meat grinder. 

4 tablespoonfuls fat 2 cupfuls bread crumbs moistened with 

1 tcaspoonful salt 4 tablespoonfuls butter 

1 leaspoonful poultry seasoning y\ teaspoonful pepper 

Melt the fat; mix all together. Moisten, if necessary for packing, with a 
little hot water. 

FROZEN CRANBERRIES 

4 cupfuls cranberries 2 cupfuls sugar 

2 cupfuls boiling water 

Pour the water over the sweetening, add the berries and cook 10 minutes. 
Cool. Put into a mold, cover tightly and pack in ice and salt for 4 hours. If 
preferred, the mixture may be strained before cooling. It may be frozen in a 
freezer by occasionally scraping the mixture from the sides and not turning it. Use 
equal partrs of ice and salt for packing. 

GRAPE AND PECAN SALAD 

Dip white grapes into water that has just stopped boiling for one-half minute; 
plunge into cold water. Skin, make a tiny opening and remove the seed. Put 
into a French dressing to marinate. Just before serving, drain, and insert, in the 
place of the seed, a tiny piece of pecan or other nut. Serve very cold on lettuce 
or romaine with a French dressing. 

FILLED RED APPLE SALAD 

Select firm red apples, and carefully remove the inside from the stem end, 
leaving a wall about one-quarter of an inch thick. Brush the inside with lemon 
juice and place in the ice-box. Chop the apple which came from the inside, 
after removing the core, and mix with an equal quantity with minced celery and 
a sprinkling of chopped nuts. Moisten with cream dressing, well seasoned, fill 
the apples and serve on lettuce. If desired, a slice can be cut from the top of 
the apple, carefully saved, and replaced when served. Otherwise, garnish with 
yellow celery tops. 

WATER-LILY SALAD 

Cook eggs hard and put into cold water to cool. Carefully remove shell and 
cut the eggs lengthwise. Remove yolks and mash with fork. Season and mix 
with salad dressing. Form into the center of the flowers. Cut the whites in 
narrow strips and lay them around the centers, forming petals of water-lily. 
Garnish with watercress, marinated in French dressing. 

PUMPKIN PIE FILLING 

Stew pumpkin with a little water; sift through a strainer. For each pie take 

1 cupful pumpkin 1 egg 

2 cupfuls milk Sugar to taste 

^ teaspoonful cinnamon ^ teaspoonful ginger 

Grating of nutmeg 

Mix all the ingredients and bake in a crust in a slow oven. 



PLUM PUDDING 
1 pound raisins 8 eggs 

1 pound currants J4 pound flour 

J4 pound candiediorange peel ^2 pound brown sugar 

J4 pound citron 1 nutmeg grated 

Yz pound chopped suet 1 tablespoonful cinnamon 

Yz pound stale bread crumbs J4 tablespoonful allspice 

^ pint grape juice 
Wash and dry the currants. Cut citron and orange peel very fine. Stone 
raisins. Mix all dry ingredients together. Beat eggs; pour them over the dry 
ingredients, add the liquid and mix thoroughly. Pack, into greased molds, and 
steam 4 hours at time of making, and reheat when wanted for use. Serve with 
hard sauce. 

FIG PUDDING 
1 pound chopped figs 3 eggs 

1 cupful suet 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

1 pint fine bread crumbs 1 teaspoonful nutmeg 

^ cupful sugar ^4 cupful grape juice or jelly 

Beat eggs well. Mix the dry ingredients. Combine with the other ingredients. 
Steam 3 hours. Serve with hard sauce made with brown sugar to which a table- 
spoonful of cream has been slowly added. 

PISTACHIO ICE-CREAM 

2 cupf uls scalded milk 1 egg 

1 tablespoonful flour Vz, teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful sugar 1 quart thin cream 

1 tablespoonful vanilla 1 teaspoonful almond 

Mix flour, sugar and salt; add egg slightly beaten, and milk gradually. Cook 

as a soft custard. When cool add cream and flavoring; strain and color green 

with vegetable coloring. Freeze. 

TOPAZ ICE 

1 can apricots 2 cupfuls water 

1 cupful sugar 2 cupfuls ginger ale 

Juice of 2 lemons 
Rub the apricots through a coarse sieve. Make a sirup of the water and 
sugar; boil 10 minutes. Cool. Add the other ingredients and freeze. Garnish 
with candied orange peel if desired. A pretty dessert for a "yellow" party. 

VIOLET ICE 

2 cupfuls grape juice Juice of 2 lemons 
4 cupfuls water 2 cupful sugar 

>2 ounce of citron, cut very fine 
Make a sirup of the water and sugar and boil 10 minutes. Cool. Add the 
other ingredients and freeze. Grape jelly may be used and part of the sugar 
omitted. Melt the jelly and add to the hot sirup. Pretty for tea parties also. 

ANGEL PARE AIT 

1 cupful sugar 1 tablespoonful vanilla 

Yz cupful water White of 3 eggs 

1 pint cream 
Boil the sugar and water until it spins a thread. Beat the white of the eggs 
until stiff, letting the sugar cool while you do the beating. Pour the sirup slowly 
into the whites, stirring all the time. Beat until the mixture is cool, add the cream 
and vanilla and freeze. 



Luncheons or Suppers for Special Occasions 

Lincoln's Birthday 

Cream-of-Carrot Soup 

Escalloped Oysters 

Corn Gems Lima Beans 

Sweet Cucumber Pickles 

Cottage Cheese Salad and Brown Bread Sandwiches 

*Hot Apple Cake 

Salted Butternuts Maple Hard Sauce 

Coffee 

Saint Valentine's Day 

Hearts of Lettuce with 

Rye Wafers and Russian Dressing 

Creamed Sweetbreads 

Buttered Peas Heart Sandwiches 

Sour Pickles 

Molded Ice-Cream (hearts and arrows) 

Pistachio Nuts Oatmeal Macaroons 

Tea or Coffee 

Washington's Birthday 

*Cherry Cocktail 

Maryland Chicken 

Brussels Sprouts Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Crabapple Jelly 

Red Cabbage Salad and Cheese Straws 

*Washington Pie 

Salted Nuts Coffee 

Cool Menus for Summer Dinners and Luncheons 

Jellied Chicken Soup 

*Stuffed Airplane Tomatoes 

Whole Wheat Bread Cream Cheese 

Strawberry Mold 



Wheat Rolls Filled with Chicken Salad 

Iced Tea Bar-le-Duc Preserves 

Floating Island Raisin Cookies 



*Stuffed Baked Cucumbers 

Cold Sliced Meat Brown-Bread Sandwiches 

Pickles 

*Fresh Fruit Icc-Cream Spiced Cakes 



Cold Tuna-Fish Timbales Cream Dressing- 

Lettuce Sandwiches Potato Chips 

Pineapple Bracts Coconut Cake 

Ginger Ale 



Baked Ham Potato Salad 

Sliced Beets in Vinegar 

Shrimp Salad and Cheese Straws 

Raspberry Ice Wafers 

Meat Loaf Buttered Peas 

Rice Biscuits Iced Cocoa 

Orange Tapioca Nut Cookies 

Cold Tomato Bouillon 

*Green Corn Puffs 

Molded Rice (cooked in milk) Mint Jelly 

Asparagus Salad 

Spanish Cream 



Chilled Fruit Cocktail 

Cold Roast Beef Young Green Onions 

Creamed New Potatoes 

Fruit Sherbet and Ladyfingers 

Iced Coffee 



Lobster Salad 

Brown-Bread Sandwiches Coffee 

Cantaloup 



Chilled Watermelon 

Cold Chicken 

Boiled Corn Potato Salad 

Peach Shortcake 

Iced or Hot Coffee 



Cold Boiled Salmon 

Cucumbers New Buttered Potatoes 

Half Cantaloups filled with Ice-Cream 

Grape Juice 

Recipes for Special Luncheon Dishes 

AIRPLANE TOMATOES 

Select uniform small tomatoes, skin and chill. Take out the inside carefully 
and cut two slits on one side of the tomato and then two slits directly opposite; 
insert thin slices of cucumber in the slits. The tomatoes should be filled with 
well-seasoned chopped meat or flaked fish; left-over meats may be used. 

STUFFED BAKED CUCUMBERS 
Peel small cucumbers; cut a slice from the top and scoop out the inside. Fill 
with chopped meat or fish mixed with cooked rice and seasoned well. Sprinkle 
the top with buttered crumbs of stale bread. Bake until the cucumber is soft 
and the crumbs brown. Be sure to grease the baking dish before putting the 
cucumber on to bake. Serve with drawn-butter sauce flavored with lemon. 

GREEN CORN PUFFS 

2 eggs beaten stiff Grated cheese 

1 cupful milk Va teaspoonful paprika 

1 pint grated corn ^ teaspoonful salt 

Few grains cayenne 



Beat two eggs until light. Add one cupful sweet milk, one pint grated corn, 
add salt and pepper. Grease well six custard cups. Fill them half full of mixture 
and place in a large cooking utensil which has been filled with hot water. Add 
one tablespoonful grated cheese to each cup. Bake in a moderate oven until 
firm. These puffs are much improved if served with tomato sauce. 

APPLE CAKE 

2 cupfuls flour 54 cupful fat 

4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 1 egg 

Yi teaspoonful salt -}4 cupful milk 

Sift the dry ingredients, cut in the fat and add the egg well-beaten and the 
milk. Having ready sour apples pared, cored and cut in eighths; place in rows 
overlapping each other on the apple cake. Bake in a square tin in a hot oven 
until the apples are soft. Sprinlde with sugar and cinnamon before baking, if 
desired. Serve hot with maple hard sauce. 

CHERRY COCKTAIL 

This may be made from red or white canned cherries. Stone the cherries and 
drain from the liquid. If very sweet, add lemon juice enough to give a tart taste. 
Chill in the ice-box. Serve in a high glass and sprinkle with shredded coconut. 
Grapefruit may be combined with the cherries if desired. 

WASHINGTON PIE 

y^ cupful fat y2 cupful milk 

•}4 cupful sugar lYi cupfuls flour 

2 eggs 2y2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

Yi teaspoonful vanilla or ^ teaspoonful lemon extract 
Cream the fat, add the sugar gradually, then the eggs Vi^ell-beaten. Add the 
flour in which the baking-powder has been sifted, alternately with the milk. 
Lastly add the flavoring. Bake in two layers in a round tin; fill with rasp- 
berry jam and sift sugar over the top. 

FRESH FRUIT ICE-CREAM 

2 cupfuls fruit juice or 3 cupfuls crushed 1 quart cream 

fruit 2 cupfuls sugar 

Crush the fruit, add sugar, allow to stand until sugar is dissolved. Scald one- 
half the cream, cool, combine all ingredients. Freeze. For frozen or water ice, 
use water instead of cream, adding 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 



Buffet Suppers 



SUNDAY night is the time when guests may drop in unexpectedly and one 
should always plan what can serve more than "just the family." 

A main dish with some kind of bread (generally hot), jelly, pickles or con- 
serve, may comprise the first course; some dessert with cakes, cookies, or wafers 
is sufficient to serve for the second. If you have a chafing dish, now is the time 
to use it. 

Much may be done in advance. The cake may be baked, the meat cooked 
ready to slice, the ingredients for the salad be ready in the ice-box and the dress- 
ing made; a dessert may be prepared the day before, or simple cookies may be 
baked. 



Supper Menus with Meat 

*Creamed Chicken with Pimientos 

Olives 

Brown-Bread Sandwiches (lettuce filling) 

Raspberry Gelatine *Marshmallow Sauce 

Nut Cakes Tea with Lemon 



Cold Sliced Meat Grape Jelly 

Cucumber Salad Hot Corn Muffins 

Chocolate Layer Cake 

Coffee 

Supper Menus with Fish 

♦Manhattan Shrimps 

Toasted Bread Sweet Pickle 

Strawberry Turnovers 

Tea with Lemon 

Shad Roe Saute Nut Bread 

Cucumbers, Cream Dressing 

White Sponge Cake *French Chocolate 

Supper Menus without Fish or Meat 

♦French Cinamon Toast 

Orange Marmalade 

Cocoa with Marshmallows Fresh Fruit Compote 

• Rice Wafers 

Nut and Cottage-Cheese Salad 

Toasted Crackers Mustard Pickles 

*Fruit Short Cake Tea 

Recipes for Some of the Supper Dishes 

CRE.\MED CHICKEN WITH PIMIENTO 
3 cupfuls cold cooked chicken cut in dice, or 1 one-pound can of chicken cut 
fine. 

2^ cupfuls milk 14. teaspoon ful pepper 

S tablespoonfuls flour 5 tablespoonfuls fat 

1 pimiento cut in tiny pieces 1 teaspoonful salt 

% teaspoonful celery salt 
Scald milk. Melt fat, add flour and seasoning and milk slowly. When thick, 
add chicken, and cook long enough to heat the chicken. Add pimiento last. 

MANHATTAN SHRIMPS 
1 pint of shrimps, canned or fresh 1 teaspoonful lemon juice 

4 tablespoonfuls fat 1 tablespoonful flour 

^ teaspoonful salt 1 cupful milk 

Little cayenne Yolk of 2 eggs 

Clean the shrimp, and cook in half the fat for 2 minutes; add seasoning and 
lemon ; cook 2 minutes longer. Remove shrimps and make a white sauce of the 
remaining fat, flour and milk; when thickened add yolks of eggs, slightly beaten, 
stirring in quickly and cooking 2 minutes; add the shrimps. 

10 



FRENCH CINNAMON TOAST 
2 eggs 1 tablespoonful sugar 

1 cupful of milk 1 teaspoonful salt 

■)4 teaspoonful cinnamon 6 slices bread 

Beat the eggs a little, add salt, sugar and milk. Dip the toast in the mixture, 
drain, sprinkle with a little cinnamon; fry in a hot pan until a delicate brown. 
Serve with sirup. 

MARSHMALLOW SAUCE 

54 pound marshmallows Yt. teaspoonful vanilla 

1 cupful powdered sugar 54 cupful boiling water 

Melt marshmallows in top of double boiler. Stir sugar into boiling water until 

dissolved; add slowly to melted marshmallows and stir until thoroughly blended. 

Chill. Add vanilla. For variety, 5i cupful chopped pecan nuts or 6 minced 

candied cherries or 2 tablespoonfuls of finely shopped citron may be added. 

FRENCH CHOCOLATE 
Pour 1 pint boiling water over 4 tablets of sweet chocolate, cook slowly 5^ 
hour. Add 1 pint scalded milk, and cook IS minutes. Add 1 teaspoonful arrow- 
root starch mixed with 54 cupful cold water, and cook 10 minutes. Add 1 
teaspoonful vanilla just before serving. The arrowroot may be omitted. 

FRUIT SHORTCAKE 

1-2/3 cupfuls flour 2 teaspoonfuls sugar 

1/3 cupful potato flour ^ cupful milk 

4 tablespoonfuls fat 5^ teaspoonful salt 

4 teaspoonfuls baking powder 
Mix and sift the dry ingredients; cut in fat; add milk; roll out on floured 
board and cut into biscuit about one inch thick. Bake in hot oven. Split and 
cover lower part with stewed fruit, place upper part on top with crust side down, 
cover with fruit. This makes individual serving. The cake may be baked in 
one round piece, split and filled with fruit. 



Afternoon Tea 



TEA should be made from freshly drawn, boiling water and in an earthen- 
ware pot, so as not to be affected by acid, and one that will retain the heat. 
After the water is poured on, the pot should stand where it will keep very hot, 
but never boil, and the tea should be allowed to infuse three to five minutes. If 
you are not ready to use it at once, pour it off into a hot pot and keep it very 
hot. 

If strong tea is made, have at hand boiling water in a hot water kettle to 
weaken the tea to suit individual tastes. If you use a tea-ball, do not fill it too 
full, for the tea must have room in which to swell in order to infuse properly. 

Tea usually is served with thin slices of lemon or orange, with the seeds re- 
moved. Sometimes a piece of pineapple or strawberry is added to each cup. Or 
for variety, a tiny piece of vanilla bean is put into the tea pot. Often clove is 
used, several cloves being stuck in each piece of lemon. In serving, the fruit may 
be put directly in the cup but the loaf sugar should be placed on a saucer. 

For the hot months, tea is better iced and served with cracked ice in tall glasses; 
put a bunch of fresh mint in the pitcher or a tiny spray in the top of each glass. 

11 



Dainty, delicious sandwiches can be made with various fillings. Little baking- 
powder biscuits cut with an oval cutter are very attractive. These should be 
buttered in the kitchen and served very hot. They may be brought in on a 
sandwich plate or in a Japanese bread basket lined with a plain doily. Little 
cakes, wafers, cookies or pastries arc dainty sweets. For special occasions nuts 
or stuffed dates, prunes or raisins may be added. 

The butter for sandwiches should always be creamed before spreading to make 
it go farther and spread more easily. Certain kinds of sandwiches are especially 
delicious if the slices of bread are spread with mayonaise or cooked salad dress- 
ing. All filling should be moist enough to spread easily, but not so moist as to 
soak the bread. Meat sandwiches should have the filling chopped or shaved, or 
cut in very thin slices. Fish should be flaked. Both must be well seasoned. 

Sandwich-bread for an afternoon tea or reception should be sliced as thinly 
as possible and cut in fancy shapes. For lunches, the bread may be cut one- 
fourth inch thick. When the sandwiches are served they may be piled one above 
the other to keep from drying. A garnish of watercress is particularly appetizing. 

Suggestions for Sandwich-Fillings 

Baked beans mashed and mixed with salad dressing. 

Flaked salmon with chopped cucumber (drain carefully) ; seasonings and 

salad dressing. 
Chopped peanuts with jelly or banana-pulp, scraped. One banana to % cupful 

peanuts. 
Minced celery, chopped pineapple, seasonings, and cooked dressing. 
Cooked fig paste and marshmallows. Melt the marshmallows in a double 

boiler and combine with the fig paste. 
Prune or apricot pulp, lemon juice, and chopped nuts or raisins. 
Preserved ginger, chopped nuts, lemon juice and sirup from the ginger, to 

moisten. 
Orange marmalade or jellies. 
Hard-cooked eggs chopped fine, seasoned with salt, pepper and a speck of 

mustard, oil and vinegar, and a finely-minced green or red pepper. 
Mayonnaise with lettuce, watercress or other salad plant, or finely-chopped 

olives (well-seasoned). 
Cream cheese seasoned with finely-chopped nuts. 

Recipes for Unusual Delights at Tea 

SWEET PASTRY 

2 cupfuls flour ^/4 cupful fat (butter preferred) 

J/2 cupful brown sugar J4 teaspoonful salt 

Mixed the flour and sugar. Cut in the fat, very fine. Roll on a floured pastry- 
board until the dough is about ]/^ inch thick; cut out with fancy cutters. Bake 
in a slow oven. Brush or mark with beaten yolk of egg mixed with ^ tea- 
spoonful water just before the pastries are done. 

CHOCOLATES 

Use the above mixture or a recipe for pastry. Cut one piece with a round 
cutter and then one the same size with a doughnut cutter. Bake, and put togeth- 
er with crocolate frosting. Cover with the frosting^, putting a little in the 
center. Sprinkle with pistachio or other nuts. 

12 



TEA CAKES 
2 cupfuls flour 4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

Yi teaspoonful salt 4 tablespoonfuls fat 

2/3 cupful milk Candied cherries, raisins, nuts, or can- 

died fruit, cut in pieces 
Sift dry ingredients, and cut in fat; add the milk. Roll on a floured board 
and cut into tiny biscuits about as large as a quarter. On top of each, put a 
candied cherry, a raisin, a nut or a piece of candied fruit. Brush over with 
melted fat, and bake in a hot oven. The inside of an old doughnut cutter makes 
a good cutter for these biscuits if a small cutter cannot be had; or use the top 
of a small can, making a few holes in the top to let out the air as you press 
down to cut the biscuit. 

These cakes need not be served with butter, as they are very rich. 

CHEESE BISCUIT 
2 cupfuls flour Yolk of 1 egg 

Yz teaspoonful salt 4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

2/3 cupful milk 2 tablespoonfuls fat 

Yz cupful grated cheese 
Mix and sift dry ingredients. Beat the yolk, add it- to the milk, and pour 
slowly into the dry ingredients. Roll out Y\ ii^ch thick on a floured board. 
Place one of the biscuits on a baking-sheet and cover it with a thin layer of the 
cheese; place another on the top and sprinkle a little of the cheese on that. Bake 
in a quick oven. If the egg-yolk is very large, less milk may be used. 

COFFEE BISCUIT 

2 cupfuls flour 2/3 cupful strong coffee 

Y2 teaspoonful salt 4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

3 teaspoonfuls sugar 3 tablespoonfuls fat 

Y2 cupful raisins 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, and cut in fat; add raisins and coffee. Roll out 
and cut into biscuits, brush over top with milk and bake in a hot oven about 
15 minutes. 

The prepared coffees on the market make excellent coffee for this recipe. 

CREAM SCONES 
2 cupfuls flour 1/3 cupful cream 

1 tablespoonful sugar 4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

4 tablespoonfuls fat Y^ teaspoonful salt 

2 eggs 
Sift dry ingredients. Cut in fat. Beat eggs and add them to cream. Pour 
into dry ingredients, mixing with a kinfe. Toss on a floured board and roll out 
about Yi, inch thick. Cut wdth a sharp knife into squares or diamond shapes 
and bake in a hot oven for IS minutes. 



Bridal Breakfasts 



FOR a large reception the buffet style of serving is the only one to use. Let 
each lady's escort serve her and himself with a plate, and in this way, with 
the help of the caterer's men, the confusion of getting refreshments to the guests 
will be lessened. When the post-wedding party is small, a group of the bride's 
friends can assist at the affair. 



13 



Table decorations play a large part in the effectiveness of a seated breakfast 
or supper. Roses and sweet peas are June flowers that decorate deligthfully. 
Place cards and favors give delicate color tone to the table. 

For the announcement supper or wedding breakfast a few well-chosen, daintily 
served foods are better by far than are elaborate repast. It may be advisable to 
call upon your caterer for the ice-creams and for some of the fancy cakes, but 
the menus given here may be prepared at home. 

Bridal Breakfast Menus 

Strawberry Cocktail 

Molded Chicken Salad Cold Sliced Tongue 

Parker House Rolls Sweet Pickles 

Caramel Bavarian 

Sponge Cakes Nut Sauce 

Coffee Bon Bons 



Bouillon Wafers 

*Salmon Cutlets with New Peas 

Broiled Squab 

Rolls French Fried Potatoes 

Orange and Cherry Salad with Cheese Straws 

Charlotte Russe 

Sponge Sticks Glazed Nuts 

Coffee 



Consomme en Tasse 

Cold Boned Chicken in Aspic Sauce Tartare 

Creamed Asparagus in Patty Shells 

Bread Sticks Olives 

Strawberry Ice-Cream 

*Bride's Cake Macaroons 

Coffee 

Wedding Breakfasts 
and Announcement Luncheons 

Grapefruit Stuffed with Wliite Grapes 

* Halibut Turbans with Hollandaise Sauce 

♦Chicken a la King Hot Rolls 

Lettuce and Celery Salad Cheese Straws 

Vanilla and Pistachio Ice-Cream 

*Bride's Cake Coffee 



Cream of Watercress Soup in Cups 

Olives Crackers 

Timbale Cases filled with Creamed Fish 

Cold Chicken and Tongue Assorted Sandwiches 

Tomato-and-Cucumber Salad 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Coffee 

14 



Tomato Bouillon 

Cold Ham and Chicken 

Hot Rolls Currant JeUy 

Hot Creamed Asparagus 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches 

Sfrawberry or Lemon Ice 

(served in meringues) 

Almond Macaroons Sponge Cakes 

Coffee Glazed Walnuts and Pecans 



Strawberries au Natural 

*Ham Mousse 

Buttered Peas New Potatoes in Cream 

Cherry Tarts 

Coffee Salted Nuts 



SALMON CUTLETS 

2 cupfuls cold flaked salmon (or 1 can) 3 tablespoonfuls fat 

1 cupful milk yg teaspoonful pepper 

1 teaspoonful lemon juice 4 tablespoonfuls flour 

1 teaspoonful salt 

Make a white sauce of the milk, flour and fat, add the seasonings, then the 

salmon and lemon. ChUl. Form into the shape of cutlets, egg and crumb and 

fry in deep fat. Insert a piece of macaroni for the bone and finish with a paper 

frUl. The sauce must be cooked until very thick. Be careful not to let it bum. 

HALIBUT TURBANS (See page 4j 

CHICKEN A LA KING 

2 tablespoonfuls fat 314 cupfuls cooked chicken cut fine 
2 tablespoonfuls flour 2 tablespoonfuls fat 

y teaspoonful salt Yolks 2 eggs 

1 pint fresh milk or cream 1 tablespoonful lemon juice 

6 fresh mushroom caps Few drops onion juice 

1 green or red sweet pepper cut fine ^ teaspoonful paprika 

Peel the mushroom caps and cut fine. Cook with the pepper in the first 
quantity of fat for three minutes. Remove the mushrooms and pepper and add 
the flour and milk. Cook until you have a boiling mixture; add the chicken, 
pepper and mushrooms. Put into the top of a double boiler. Cream the second 
quality of fat and stir in the egg yolks and seasoning; add to the chicken mixture 
and cook until the egg yolks are cooked, stirring constantly. 

HAM MOUSSE 

2 cupfuls boiled ham minced very fine ^ cupful whipped cream 

1 tablespoonful gelatine softened in 2 % teaspoonful paprika 

tablespoonfuls cold water Few grains cayenne 

J<2 cupful boiling water 1 tablespoonful finely minced parsley 

Pour the hot water on the softened gelatine; add the ham, seasonings and the 
cream; mix thoroughly and mold in individual molds or a large mold. Serve, 
garnished with parsley. 

IS 



BRIDE'S CAKE 
J/2 cupful butter 23^ cupfuls flour 

lYz cupfuls sugar 3 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

1 cupful milk ^ teaspoonful almond extract 

34 teaspoonful cream of tartar Whites of 6 eggs 

Cream butter; add sugar, gradually, and continue beating. Mix and sift the 
flour, baking-powder and cream of tartar, and add alternately with the milk to 
the first mixture. Add extract. Beat the whites of the eggs until stiff and add 
last. Bake about 45 minutes. 



Children's Parties 



ICE-CREAM, of which nothing else can take the place at a child's party, has 
been planned in nearly all of the following menus. These refreshments are 
simply prepared and suitable for children between the ages of five and twelve 
years. 

Menus for Children's Parties 

Sandwiches with Peanut-Butter and Chopped Raisin FiUmg 

Sandwiches filled with Currant Jelly 

Cocoa Animal Cookies 

*Basket Ice-Cream 

Lollypops 



Creamed Chicken 

White and Brown-Bread Sandwiches 

*Orange Ice-Cream (in orange shells) 

Stick Candy Ladies Fancy Cakes 



Raspberry Shrub 

Honey Sandwiches of Graham and White Bread 

Catawba Grape Juice 

*Chocolate Charlotte 

Molasses Chips Sponge Cakes 



Cold Chicken and Tongue 

Date and Fig Sandwiches Baking-Powder Biscuit 

Cocoa with Marshmallow 

*Caramel Ice-Cream 

Oat Macaroons 

Little Cakes 

Barley Sugar and Chocolate Animal? 

For Very Little Tots 

Graham Crackers 

Zweibach 

Cooked Prune or Banana Pulp 

Tapioca Cream 

Plain Cookies Milk 

16 



Recipes for Sweets for Children's Parties 

BASKET ICE-CREAM 

Make small plain cakes and take out the inside. Put in a teaspoonful of jam 
or sweet jelly and then a ball of vanUla ice-cream. Make the handle of the 
basket of citron cut in strips, or angelica. 

ORANGE ICE-CREAM 

2 cupfuls sugar 1 cupful milk 

1 cupful water Yolks 2 eggs 

2 cupfuls orange juice 1 cupful thick cream 

Boil the sugar and water 8 minutes slowly. Add the orange juice after cool- 
ing. Make a custard of the milk and egg yolks. Strain, cool and add to the 
first mixture. Beat the cream and add it. Freeze. If desired, % cupful candied 
orange peel, cut fine, may be added to the ice-cream when nearly frozen. 

CHOCOLATE CHARLOTTE 

y^ cupful boiling water % cupful cold water 

^ cupful sugar J4 cupful cream (scalded) 

\% cupfuls cream ' IJ^ squares chocolate 

1J4 tablespoonfuls gelatine VanUla 

Soak the gelatine in cold water. Add the scalded cream to it while hot. Stir 
until gelatine is dissolved. Melt the chocolate over hot water, add the sugar 
slowly and then the boiling water a little at a time. Add slowly to the gelatine 
mixture while both are hot. Cool. Add the cream to 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 
Pour into a fancy mold lined with lady fingers. 

CARAMEL ICE-CREAM 

2 cupfuls scalded milk 1 cupful sugar 

yi cupful sugar J4 cupful boiling water 

3 eggs 1 quart thin cream 

% tablespoonful salt 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla 

Make a custard of the first four ingredients, strain and cool. Caramelize 1 
cupful of sugar and add boiling water to it. Cool. Combine mixtures, add cream 
and vanilla. Freeze. 



^^ 



17 



McCaWs Service 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



014 516 885 5 « 



Spending The Family Income: Why True Economy Means 
Living by a Plan. What a plan of expenditures includes — per- 
centage of income to apportion for shelter, food, clothing, 
operating expenses, development, savings. 10 cents 

A Group of Little Homes. Compiled by Robert Cummings 
Wiseman, from plans designed by expert small-house archi- 
tects. Twelve houses, with complete architectural plans. 10 cents 

The Modern Home: How to Equip it with Mechanical Servants 
and Manage it Wisely. By Lillian Purdy Goldsborough. 
Labor-saving devices and methods to do the housework in a 
servantless home. 10 cents 

Down the Garden Path. By Dorothy Giles, member of The 
Garden Club of America. Practical directions for flower 
and vegetable gardening. 10 cents 

Time-Saving Cookery. Prepared by The House of Sarah Field 
Splint. Menus and recipes all specially originated for McCall 
readers, indicating how package and canned foods, bought at 
the neighborhood grocery, can be used to supply delightful, 
well-balanced, wholesome meals, and at the same time spare 
the home-cook both time and work. 10 cents 

Master-Recipes: A New Time-Saving Method in Cookery. Ten 
recipes given in one for making gelatin desserts, souffles, muf- 
fins, cream-sauce dishes, cream soups, sauces for meat or fish, 
custards, bread puddings, bavarian creams, ices, cakes, cookies, 
doughnuts, cake frostings, candies. 10 cents 

What to Serve at Parties. Compiled by Lilian M. Gunn, De- 
partment of Foods and Cookery, Teacher's College, Colum- 
bia University, from her articles previously published in 
McCall's. Menus and special recipes for Luncheons, Dinners, 
Teas, Suppers, Bridal Breakfasts and Children's Parties. 10 cents 

Parties All The Year. One for every month. By Claudia M. 
Fitzgerald. Suggestions for rhymed invitations, games, con- 
test, stunts, costumes, prizes, refreshments. 10 cents 

More Parties. By Claudia M. Fitzgerald. 10 cents 

Entertaining Without a Maid. By Edna Sibley Tipton. Correct 
Table Service for Breakfast Parties, Luncheons, Teas, Recep- 
tions, Dinners, Sunday Night Suppers. 10 cents 

The Bride's Own Book. Suggestions for Formal and Informal 

Weddings in the Church and in the Home. 10 cents 

A Book of Manners. The etiquette of introduction, calls, invita- 
tions, gifts, manners at table and in public places, fees, funerals 
and mourning, correspondence, childrens' manners, and so forth. 10 cents 

The Friendly Mother: A Book of Prenatal Mothercraft. 
Written by Helen Johnson Keyes and approved by Franklin 
A. Dorman, M. D., Head of the Maternity Division of The 
Woman's Hospital, New York City. A guide for the young 
mother during the long months before her baby comes. 10 cents 

To get the booklets, address (enclosing postage) The Service 
Editor, McCall's Magazine, 236 West 37th Street, New York City. 



