TX 715 

W455 
Copy 1 






EVERYWOMAN'S 

COOK BOOK 





NATIONAL LEAGUE FOR WOMAN'S SERVICE 
SAN FRANCISCO 



KS 



S3 



EVERYWOMAN'S 

COOKBOOK 

RECIPES AND 
FOOD COMBINATIONS 
FOR THE HOUSEHOLD 



COMPILED AND ARRANGED BY 

HELEN -M -WELLS 

'Dietitian 'Rational League for Woman 's Service 

Formerly cAssiSant Professor Institutional ^Management 

T>rexel Institute, Philadelphia 



PUBLISHED BY 

NATIONAL LEAGUE FOR WOMAN'S SERVICE 

SAN FRANCISCO * CALIFORNIA 
u *~ fro «vj a 






Copyright 1922 

f^ational League for Woman 's Service 

San Francisco 



CU691S61 



PRINTED UNDER THE DIRECTION OF 

PERSONAL SERVICE BUREAU 

FLORENCE E. BATE ALMAE.MAYNARD 
SAN FRANCISCO 



DE! 



v* 1 



as 2H 




PREFACE 

n order to further carry out our policy of "Service for 
Women" the National League is publishing this little book 
to help all those women who are interested in good meals — 
their preparation and service. Recipes alone do not constitute 
a meal, so we are including combinations of various foods in 
various ways. 

The recipes we are publishing in this book are largely those 
which have been very popular in the Restaurant of the National 
League for Woman's Service. The others are choice, family 
recipes which have not been published in any form before. For 
more information along culinary lines we recommend: "The 
Boston Cooking School Cook Book" by Fannie Merritt Farmer 
for general use; "Food And Cookery For The Sick," by Miss 
Farmer, or "Invalid Cookery," by Sarah Hill, for dishes for 
invalids. 

The menus here listed are very simple and designed for the 
small home which has but one servant or perhaps none. Any of 
the menus might be prepared and served by the hostess herself 
without making a disagreeable task of meal preparation. 



«2 SK 



75 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 

Helps for Housekeepers 6 

Accompaniments 7 

Hors d'oeuvres 9-10 

Soups 11-12 

Breads 13-15 

Salads and Salad Dressings . . . . 17-18 

Luncheon Dishes 20-24 

Pickles and Preserves 26-28 

Vegetables 29 

Desserts 31-36 

Cakes 38-41 

Simple Luncheon Menus 43 

Simple Dinner Menus 44-45 

Holiday Menus 46-47 



[5] 



K5 2R 

HELPS FOR HOUSEKEEPERS 

All measurements in these recipes are level. 

All the recipes are sufficient quantity for a family of six people. 

In all cooking, if salt is added to the food the flavor will be improved. Foods 

with chocolate particularly need salt. 
A little cinnamon added to chocolate dishes greatly improves them, if the 

flavor of cinnamon is popular at all with the family. 
Lemon juice added to all fruit dishes greatly improves them, the lemon 

bringing out the other fruit flavor. 
Pineapple or lemon juice added to banana, apple or peach salad keeps 

these fruits from turning brown. 
Fresh pineapple and fresh peaches added to a gelatin dessert will prevent 

that dessert from congealing. If the fruit is cooked just a few minutes 

it may then be used for a jellied fruit salad or a Bavarian cream. 
In making both yeast and baking powder breads and biscuits keep the 

dough just as soft as possible. Just the opposite of this is true of pie 

pastry. The latter must be kept as dry as possible. 
In planning a menu do not have the same food appear twice; that is: do not 

serve celery with the soup and then creamed celery as a vegetable, or 

tomato soup and then later tomato in the salad, or, as is so often served, 

chicken soup when the meat course is chicken. 
Menus should not have too many strongly flavored foods or too many mildly 

flavored dishes, but have an even balance. With a mild meat, as chicken 

or veal, serve a strong vegetable or pickle or preserve, and with lamb 

or high game serve some mild, neutral food. 
Build all menus around the meat, instead of planning the vegetables, 

entrees, etc., and then adding the meat. 
Cook all green vegetables in boiling water and do not salt them until they 

are half done, dried fruits and vegetables are put on to cook in the 

cold water in which they were soaked. 
In cooking all meats, except for soups, have intense heat at first in order to 

seal the exterior and thus keep in the juices. Reduce the heat later as 

intense heat toughens the albumin. For soups, put the meat and bones 

on in cold water and let them come very slowly to the boil. 

[6] 



as ^ 

ACCOMPANIMENTS 

SOUPS 

Wafers, bread sticks, croutons, celery, olives, pickles, cheese sticks, radishes, 

or very hot hard rolls. 

MEATS 
Roast Beef — Horseradish or horseradish sauce, Yorkshire pudding, catsup, 

Worcestershire or mustard. 
Roast Pork — Apple sauce, cranberry sauce or cranberry jelly, apple rings, 

or lemon ice. Sweet potatoes. 
Roast Lamb — Mint sauce or mint jelly, mint ice, currant jelly. Peas. 
Boiled Mutton — Caper sauce. 

Baked Ham — Mustard, pear and ginger conserve, or currant jelly. Spinach. 
Roast Veal — Tomato sauce, dressing with celery, cranberry ice. 
Steaks — Mushroom sauce (browned) or creamed mushrooms, broiled 

bananas, horseradish or horseradish sauce. French fried potatoes. 
Meat Loaf — Tomato sauce. 

FOWLS 

Roast Duck — Apple sauce, currant jelly, bread sauce. Creamed onions. 

Roast Chicken — Currant jelly. Brussels sprouts. 

Broiled Chickens — Currant or grape jelly. Mushrooms. 

Roast Turkey — Chestnut stuffing, cranberry sauce, cranberry jelly or 

cranberry ice. Onions. 
Roast Goose — Apple sauce, cranberry sauce or currant jelly. 

FISH 

(A slice of lemon always should accompany fish.) 
Salmon — Egg sauce. Peas. 
Mackerel — Lemon butter. 
Halibut — Hollandaise. 
Filet of Sole — Tartar sauce. 

Shad — Parsley, egg sauce, mushroom sauce. Corn bread. 
Oysters and Clams — Horseradish, lemon. Celery. 
Scallops — Tartar sauce. 

SALADS 
Fruit — Salt wafers, small sandwiches. Salted nuts. 
Meat — Celery, cheese wafers. Olives. 
Vegetable — Cheese straws, wafers. 
Fish — Slice of lemon. Celery, olives, saltines. 

[7] 



^ HORS D'OEUVRES (ft 

SARDINE CANAPES 

1 can boneless and skinless %. teaspoon English mustard 
sardines 6 rings of stuffed olives 

6 rounds of bread toasted on Hard cooked egg white 

one side chopped very fine 

4 drops Worcestershire IT , , , ,, , 

T . r , , Hard cooked egg yolk pressed 
Juice y 2 lemon .. , • 

■L ' through a sieve 

Cayenne 

Rub sardines, Worcestershire, lemon juice, cayenne and mustard to a paste. 
Place a thin layer of this paste on the untoasted side of the bread. On the 
outer edge of the bread place a ring of the chopped egg white and just inside 
that place a round of the grated yolk. In the center place a round of stuffed 
olive. This makes a very tasty first course for a dinner where a fish course 
is not being served. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

Roll the paste for pie paste to one-fourth inch in thickness, spread on it 
grated strong cheese. Fold this together, pressing edges firmly. Roll to one- 
fourth inch again. Sprinkle with cheese as before. Repeat this a third time. 
Cut in strips one-fourth inch thick, one-fourth inch wide and five inches 
long. Place cayenne on the top just before baking. Bake eight minutes in a 
hot oven. Make rings of some of the strips and place two straws through one 
ring to make an attractive accompaniment for salads, soups, or cocktails. 

LOBSTER, CRAB, SHRIMP OR OYSTER COCKTAIL 

2 cups of the sea food Dash of tobasco 
1 cup of the hearts of celery 3 tablespoons real hot horse- 
chopped finely radish 

V2 cup chili sauce or catsup ,, A ,,. 

Juice of 2 lemons # teaspoon salt 

Mix the celery and the sea food. Mix all the seasonings and add to the solid 
food. Chill thoroughly. Serve with wafers instead of celery as there is celery 
in the cocktail. 

CELERY STUFFED WITH ROQUEFORT CHEESE DRESSING 

12 small stalks of white crisp 5/$ cup olive oil 

celery 3 tablespoons vinegar 

% The^se^ 01 ^ R ° qUef0rt V* teaspoon Worcestershire 

4 tablespoons whipped cream 

Cream the cheese, add the oil slowly. When all the oil is worked in, add the 
vinegar and Worcestershire, and lastly the stiffly beaten cream. Have the 
celery very dry. Fill the hollow part with the cheese mixture. 

Double the quantity of oil, vinegar, and cream will make this a soft 
enough mixture for a dressing for lettuce, endive, etc. 



[9] 



^ HORS DOEUVRES ^ 

SALTED ALMONDS 

y 2 pound shelled almonds — 2 teaspoons salt 
the large unbroken meats Dash of cayenne 

3 tablespoons olive oil 
Place almonds in a pan of water. Bring to the boil and let boil three minutes. 
Blanch. Place on a pie tin or a dripping pan and stir the oil through the 
nuts. Bake in a slow oven until brown. The more slowly they are baked the 
drier they become, and thus will remain crisp longer. This may take an hour. 
A large quantity of nuts may be prepared this way and kept in a closed jar 
almost indefinitely. When they are browned sufficiently, place on an un- 
glazed paper to remove the grease. Salt and add the cayenne at this time. 
If in a hurry for the nuts, they may be fried in deep fat and they will be 
very good for a short time, but they lose their crispness sooner if prepared 
this way. Olive oil is much better than butter as it browns so slowly. 



[■<>] 



^ soups C^ 

CLAM CHOWDER 

Cut three slices of bacon in small pieces and fry. Remove the bacon and fry 
one onion in the grease. Add one cup of raw potato cubes, the liquor and one 
cup of chopped clams. Cook this until the potatoes are done. Add two cups 
of thin white sauce and one-half cup of cream. Season to taste. Add the 
bacon. Serve. 

CHEESE ONION SOUP 

3 tablespoons butter *4 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons flour Y> cup strong grated cheese 

1 cup milk white pepper and cayenne 

Make a white sauce by melting the butter, adding flour and seasonings and 
then the cold milk and onion stock (made from boiling four large onions 
until tender and then pressed through the sieve). Stir frequently until thick- 
ens. When ready to serve, add the grated cheese and stir until it has melted. 
A good soup to serve when a very light lunch is prepared otherwise. 

TOMATO BISQUE 

2j/2-lb. can tomatoes 1 carrot 

3 teaspoons sugar 3 bay leaves 

Y teaspoon soda 1 cup stale bread crumbs 

1 onion 1 quart milk 

8 whole cloves ^2 tablespoon salt 

Y A cup butter Ya teaspoon pepper 

Sprig parsley 

Scald the milk with the onion, cloves, carrot finely diced, bay leaves and 
bread crumbs for forty-five minutes. Remove the seasonings and rub the 
bread and milk through the sieve. Cook the tomatoes with the sugar for 
fifteen minutes; add the soda and rub through a sieve. Reheat the milk mix- 
ture to the boiling point, add the strained tomatoes slowly. Add butter, 
chopped parsley, salt and pepper. Serve at once. A tasty luncheon soup. 

EMERGENCY CREAM OF TOMATO 

1 cup of thin cream or 1 cup 3 tablespoons catsup 
condensed milk diluted 
one-third 
Heat the cream or the diluted milk to the boiling point. Add the catsup. 
Serve at once. 

This is just enough for one service. Increase it proportionately according 
to the desired number of services. The catsup seasons the soup perfectly and 
kills the flavor of condensed milk. A splendid help in an emergency. 



[>i] 



?<S soups ^ 

VEGETABLE STOCK SOUP 

The bones from a beef or veal 1 cup celery chopped fine 

roast or a 4-lb. soup bone y 2 CU p fresh green corn or 
y 2 cup diced carrots canned corn 

2 onions Yz tablespoon chopped parsley 

Y^ head cabbage chopped 5 tablespoons butter 

very fine Salt and pepper 

Boil the bones for three or four hours. Cool. Remove all fat from the 
strained liquid. Add the carrots, cabbage, celery and corn to the soup stock 
and cook until the vegetables are tender. Fry the onions in the butter and 
when thoroughly browned add to the soup. Add the chopped parsley, salt 
and pepper and serve. Tomato or one-fourth cup of catsup may be added to 
this if tomato flavor is desired. 



[12] 



^ BREADS ^ 

NUT BREAD 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 

\y 2 cups milk y 2 cup sugar 

3^2 cups flour 1 cup walnut meats 

4 teaspoons baking powder 
Mix flour, baking powder, salt and sugar. Beat eggs very light. Add eggs to 
milk and then add entire liquid to dry ingredients. Add walnut meats which 
have been broken in small pieces and covered with one-fourth cup of the 
flour which was originally measured. Let this mixture stand in the baking 
pan for twenty minutes. Bake in a moderate oven thirty to thirty-five 
minutes. This can be used for sandwiches for a picnic or tea. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS 

1 cup graham flour \ J / 2 cups milk 

% cup white bread flour 1 egg 

y cup sugar \y 2 tablespoons melted lard 

5 teaspoons baking powder \y 2 tablespoons melted butter 

1 teaspoon salt 
Mix dry ingredients. Add milk and then egg well beaten. Beat thoroughly. 
Fold in the melted fats. Bake in hot oven thirty minutes. 

MAPLE SUGAR BISCUIT 

2 cups pastry flour 3 tablespoons lard 
5 teaspoons baking powder x /\ lb. pure maple sugar 
\y 2 teaspoons salt 1 cup milk 

Break maple sugar into small lumps the size of a large pea. Mix flour, baking 
powder, salt, and then rub the fat into the dry ingredients. Add the lumps 
of maple sugar. Add as much milk as the flour will hold in order to make a 
dough which can be cut with a cutter, but not stiff enough to be rolled with 
a rolling pin. Cut dough in small biscuits and place on a greased baking 
sheet in a hot oven. Bake for ten minutes. Serve at once. Nuts used instead of 
the sugar make another variety. 

BRAN MUFFINS 

1 cup flour y 2 teaspoon salt 

2 cups bran 5 tablespoons molasses 
1 teaspoon soda 2 eggs 
1 cup milk 

Mix dry ingredients. Add beaten eggs and molasses to milk. Add liquid to 
dry ingredients. Place in greased muffin tins in hot oven and bake from 
thirty to forty minutes. These may be used as a laxative food. 



[13] 



f§ BREADS ^ 

CORN MUFFINS 

1 cup flour y 2 teaspoon salt 
Y> cup corn meal 1 egg 
3 teaspoons baking powder \ l / 2 cups milk 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 tablespoons butter 

Sift and mix thoroughly the dry ingredients. Add the beaten egg to the milk, 
and add liquid to the dry ingredients. Beat hard. Fold in the melted butter. 
Place in greased muffin tins and bake in a hot oven thirty minutes. These are 
very good served with fish of any kind. 

SWEET MUFFINS 

Ya cup butter 1 cup milk 

Y\ cup sugar \]/ 2 cups flour 

1 teaspoon salt 2 J / 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 egg 
Cream butter, add sugar, then beaten egg. Alternately add the remaining 
dry ingredients which have been mixed and sifted with the milk. Bake in 
greased tins in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. 

CINNAMON TOAST 

12 slices bread with crusts re- Y cup sugar 

moved Y* teaspoon salt 

Butter 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

Toast bread on one side. Butter the untoasted side very liberally. Mix the 
sugar, cinnamon and salt thoroughly. Spread on the buttered side of the 
toast as thickly as possible, or as much as the butter will hold. Place these 
on a broiler and when the sugar mixture has bubbled up with the butter and 
softened serve at once. Cut the slices in two after they are done. 

This makes a most desirable bread to serve with afternoon tea or is good 
for a luncheon where an apple salad is served. 

GRAHAM GEMS WITH DATES 

These are good for either breakfast or luncheon. 

1 pint milk 3 cups graham meal 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup boiled rice 

1 cup chopped dates 3 eggs 

1 tablespoon melted butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 

One tablespoon of sugar may be added if sweet muffins are desired. 



[>4] 



as 



BREADS ^ 



FRUIT ROLLS 

2 cups flour 34 CU P chopped orange peel or 
5 teaspoons baking powder citron 

Yi teaspoon salt y 2 cup light brown sugar 

3 tablespoons lard ^ teaspoon salt 
Milk 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
y 2 cup sultana raisins Y<\ cup butter 

Make baking powder biscuit dough of the flour, baking powder, lard, salt 
and milk. Roll to one-fourth inch in thickness. Butter with partially melted 
butter. Mix the raisins, peel, brown sugar, salt and cinnamon, and sprinkle 
this on the dough. Roll. Cut in three-quarter inch pieces and place in greased 
muffin tins. Bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. These are a delicious 
luncheon roll and take the place of yeast bread cinnamon rolls when one is 
in a hurry. 



[15] 




[i6] 



flS 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS p^ 



FROZEN FRUIT SALAD 

1 teaspoon mustard 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup milk 

1 tablespoon flour 3 tablespoons vinegar 

*4 cup sugar 
Mix the mustard, salt, flour and sugar. Add the scalded milk slowly to this. 
When it has thickened add the egg well beaten. At the very last add the 
vinegar. (Lemon juice may be substituted for the vinegar.) Cool. Add one 
pint of whipped cream (this means one cup of cream before it is whipped). 
To this dressing add two cups of fruit — bananas, pineapple, white grapes, 
green cherries or red cherry jam and oranges. The fruit wants to be cut in 
quite small pieces. Pack this in a mold and place it in equal quantities of 
ice and rock salt for four hours. This is a splendid dish for a bridge tea as 
it takes the place of both salad and dessert. 



JELLIED VEGETABLE SALAD 

2 tablespoons granulated gel- 1 cup finely chopped cabbage 

atin 2 pimientos cut in strips 

J / 2 cup cold water 1 green pepper cut in strips 

y 2 cup mild cider vinegar 10 sliced stuffed olives 

1 pint of boiling water 2 cups chopped celery 

1 teaspoon salt 1 chopped cucumber 

y 2 cup sugar 1 chopped dill pickle 

Juice of 1 lemon 
Soak the gelatin in cold water for five minutes. Add the boiling water, then 
the vinegar, salt, sugar and lemon juice. When this is cold, add the vege- 
tables and place in a mold or in individual molds. Serve on lettuce with 
mayonnaise or a boiled salad dressing. Cheese straws served with this make 
a most pleasing salad course. 



FRUIT SALAD DRESSING 

T /z cup pineapple juice 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

y 2 cup orange juice %. teaspoon salt 

J4 cup lemon juice 2 eggs or 4 egg yolks 

24 cup sugar 
Heat fruit juices. Mix cornstarch with the sugar and salt. Add the heated 
fruit juice slowly to the dry ingredients. Cook in double boiler for twenty 
minutes. Add the beaten eggs, cook slowly until they thicken. This is very 
good on any fruit salad. 



[17] 



fa 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS ?R 



CREAM SALAD DRESSING 

1 teaspoon sugar 2 egg yolks 
*4 teaspoon mustard y 2 cup milk 

y 2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons melted butter 

Cayenne J A cup vinegar 

2 tablespoons flour 

Sift the dry ingredients. Pour the melted butter over them. Add the scalded 
milk to this mixture. Return to the double boiler, add the heated vinegar 
and cook until thick. (If this should curdle do not be alarmed as the curd 
will cook out.) Add the egg yolks and cook for three minutes. Just before 
serving add one cup whipped cream or sour cream. This may be used for a 
fruit salad or as the basis for a frozen fruit salad. 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING AND CREAM CHEESE DRESSING 

J / 2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons vinegar 

Y\ teaspoon pepper y 2 cup olive oil 

Cayenne y 2 cup thick cream 

54 teaspoon sugar 
Mix the salt, sugar, pepper, cayenne and vinegar. Add the oil slowly, beat- 
ing with a dover beater. When thoroughly blended, add the cream very 
slowly, beating vigorously all the time. The cream whips and keeps the 
vinegar and oil from separating and thus the dressing looks better than the 
regular French dressing, while the cream does not alter the taste. A square 
of strong cream cheese softened and added to this makes a delicious dressing 
for lettuce, endive, asparagus, etc. 



[18] 




[19] 



$^ LUNCHEON DISHES ^ 

CRABFLAKE AND BACON 

Remove the crab meat from two large crabs. Make a white sauce of three 
tablespoons butter, three tablespoons flour, one cup milk, three-fourths cup 
of cream. Add two egg yolks just before it is finished and salt and cayenne to 
taste. Place in a buttered baking dish and place twelve strips of sliced fried 
bacon over it. Place in the oven for ten minutes. 

CURRIED EGGS 

12 hard cooked eggs Y\ cup cream 

3 tablespoons butter 2 egg yolks 

3 tablespoons flour T / 2 teaspoon curry powder 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon salt 

Melt butter, add flour and salt, then milk. Cook in double boiler for fifteen 
minutes. Slightly beat egg yolks, add curry powder to eggs, and then beat 
in the cream slowly. Add this all to the white sauce. Cook until thoroughly 
hot. Add the eggs. When they are heated through, serve. This makes a good 
meat substitute and is very nice served with rice and chutney. 

LOBSTER NEWBURG 

2 pounds lobster Slight grating nutmeg 
34 cup butter IK CU P S thin cream 
y 2 teaspoon salt Yolks 2 eggs 
Cayenne 2 hard cooked yolks 

Cook lobster in melted butter for three minutes. Add cream. When hot, add 
the well beaten egg yolks combined with the cooked egg yolks which have 
been put through a fine sieve. When eggs thicken, remove at once and serve 
with toast points. One-fourth cup of sherry added to this materially in- 
creases its palatability. The sherry may be added to the lobster at first with 
the melted butter or at the very last. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

This makes a good meat substitute for luncheon or may be used as a dinner 
entree if baked in small individual casseroles. 

2 tablespoons of butter 1 heaping tablespoon of flour 

y 2 cup of milk 3 eggs 

1 cup grated cheese A litt i e cayenn e pepper 

Yz teaspoon salt 

Put the butter in a saucepan and when hot add flour and stir until smooth 
but not browned; add milk and seasoning. Cook two minutes, then add the 
yolks of the eggs well beaten and the cheese. Set away to cool. When cold, 
add the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Turn into a buttered dish and bake 
from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Serve the moment it comes from oven. 



[20] 



as 



LUNCHEON DISHES £?N 



CREAMED MUSHROOMS 

2 pounds fresh mushrooms 3 tablespoons flour 

y 3 cup butter Salt 

1 cup milk Cayenne 

2 cups thin cream 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 

Remove all skin from the caps and the stems of the mushrooms. Cut the 
stems in small pieces and break up the larger caps. Saute slowly in the 
butter. When very tender add the flour and then the cream. Cook eight 
minutes. Then add the milk if the mixture is too thick. Add the seasonings 
and serve. This is good for a vegetable, a sauce for steaks or broilers, or for 
a filling for a timbale. 

NOODLE TIMBALE 

2 eggs Vz teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 1 box egg noodles 

Cook noodles in boiling water or, preferably, chicken stock, until thoroughly 
tender. Drain from the liquid. Add the milk, salt and eggs well beaten. 
Place in a timbale tin or in a greased sauce pan and place a large bowl in 
the center so that this mixture will bake firmly, with a large center for 
meat of some kind. Fill the timbale when it has been removed from the pan 
to a platter with creamed chicken, creamed veal, creamed mushrooms, or 
sweetbreads. 

BACON AND APPLE RINGS 

12 apple rings 12 strips of bacon 

Core four large apples. Cut in slices about three-fourth to one inch in thick- 
ness. Fry bacon and when crisp remove from grease, reduce the flame, and 
fry the apples slowly in the bacon grease. Be careful not to break the apple 
rings. As soon as soft remove to a hot plate, place a strip of bacon on each 
ring and serve at once. 

HAM AND CORN SOUTHERN 

2 No. 2 cans corn Vz green pepper chopped 

\y 2 cups milk 3 slices of boiled ham *4 i ncn 

3 eggs thick 

2 teaspoons salt l / 2 cup grated cheese 

Y\ teaspoon pepper 
Mix the corn, milk, seasonings and egg well beaten. Add the chopped pep- 
per. Place all in a buttered baking dish, sprinkle the top with the grated 
cheese, and then place on top the slices of ham which have been cut in two, 
making six pieces of the meat. Bake slowly thirty or forty minutes. The fat 
from the ham permeates the corn and gives it a delicious flavor. 



[21] 



$5 LUNCHEON DISHES (ft 

VEAL BIRDS 

2 pounds very best veal cutlet Yz cup finely chopped celery 

2 cups bread crumbs ^4 cup melted butter 

Poultry seasoning Warm water 
Salt and pepper 

Have cutlets cut one-third inch in thickness and two by four inches in size. 
Make a dressing of the bread, celery, seasonings, melted butter, and lastly 
the warm water. Place two or three spoons of dressing on each strip of meat, 
roll up diagonally, holding firm with a toothpick. Place in a roasting pan 
and cook forty-five minutes. Be sure there is water in the pan. Remove and 
place an olive on the end of the toothpick for the head of the bird and place 
a piece of parsley for the tail. Serve with a gravy or creamed mushrooms. 
This same dressing is nice for the stuffing of squabs. A little onion juice 
may be added if so desired. 

HAM AND CORN SPANISH 

2 No. 2 cans corn 3 tablespoons catsup 

Yi pound boiled ham 2 teaspoons salt 

1 green pepper Paprika 

\ l /2 cups milk 2 eggs 

Grind the ham, add corn, chopped pepper, milk, eggs well beaten, salt, 
paprika, and at the very last the catsup. Bake in a greased baking dish in a 
moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. 

CHICKEN A LA KING 

1 4-pound hen 1 green pepper 

1 cup milk 2 pimientos 

y 2 cup cream 1 can button mushrooms or 1 

4 tablespoons flour pound fresh mushrooms 

Cook hen until tender — probably about three hours. Let boil for ten minutes 
and then reduce the heat and let it finish cooking just under the boiling 
point. Remove the chicken from the stock and cool both stock and chicken. 
When the meat is cold, remove skin and bones and cut all the meat in fairly 
good sized servings. Remove the grease from the stock and use three table- 
spoons of it for the fat in making the sauce. Melt this in a sauce pan, add 
the flour, then the milk and one and one-half cups of stock. Stir until it 
thickens. Then add the chicken, green pepper which has been cut finely, and 
pimiento. If the mushrooms are fresh, remove the skins, saute in three table- 
spoons butter until tender, add the cream, cook for five minutes, and then 
add to the chicken mixture. If canned mushrooms are used, cut them in two 
and add to the mixture without further cooking. Add the cream at the last 
in that case. Season with salt and paprika, and serve. One-quarter cup 
sherry added just before serving greatly improves this. 



[22] 



f§ LUNCHEON DISHES ^ 

SAUSAGE AND BAKED APPLES 

6 medium sized bellflower 12 small link sausages 
apples (or any good bak- Salt 
ing apple) 

Core apples, making a fairly large hole in each apple. Place two sausages in 
each hole. Place in a dripping pan and add one-half cup of water. Bake in 
a moderate oven until the apples are done. Salt when they are about half 
done. Baste with the juice and sausage grease three or four times. The apple 
flavors the meat and the sausage the fruit and thus makes a very delicious 
combination of fruit and meat. 

EGGS IN CHEESE SAUCE 

9 hard cooked eggs y 2 cup strong cheese grated 

2 cups milk ^2 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons butter Cayenne 
3 tablespoons flour 

Melt butter, add flour and salt. When well blended, add the milk. Stir until 
it thickens. Add the cheese, stirring until it is melted. Pour over the eggs 
which have been halved and place in the oven for fifteen minutes. 

Another way to make this is to make a deep dish of cheese sauce and drop 
raw eggs into it carefully. Place this in a moderate oven from thirty to forty 
minutes. 

CHEESE TOAST AND BACON 

6 slices toast 2 cups milk 

6 slices bacon y 2 cup grated cheese 

2 tablespoons butter Salt 

3 tablespoons flour Paprika 

Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, salt, pepper and milk. Pour over the 
toast. Place grated cheese on top, and then a strip of rare bacon on top of 
each piece of toast. Place under the broiler for three minutes or until the 
bacon finishes cooking. 

SALMON SOUFFLE 
1 pound fresh salmon or 1 2 teaspoons lemon juice 

No. 2 can salmon Y2. cup soft bread crumbs 

1 teaspoon salt ^2 cup milk 

Paprika 3 eggs, beaten separately 

If fresh salmon, boil or steam until done, remove skin and bones, and flake 
it. If canned salmon is used, rinse, remove bones and skin, flake. Add the 
seasonings. Cook the bread and milk in the double boiler. Add the salmon 
and egg yolks beaten thick. Cook until egg yolks thicken. Cool slightly. Cut 
and fold in the whites which have been stiffly beaten. Place in a buttered 
baking dish, place in a pan of hot water in the oven. Bake slowly until firm. 



[23] 



LUNCHEON DISHES £^ 

BROILED OYSTERS AND BACON 

30 large oysters on the half 1 5 strips of bacon 
shell 
Cut each strip of bacon in two. Broil until very rare. Place a piece of par- 
tially cooked bacon on each oyster. Place the oysters on a pan and put under 
a broiler which is only moderately hot, for too hot a fire toughens them. 
Cook only until the bacon is crisp — not over four minutes. The flavor of 
the bacon grease as it melts around the oysters is a great improvement over 
plain broiled oysters. 

BROILED SQUAB 
Split squabs down the back, removing the backbone. Clean. Dry with a 
damp cloth. Singe and remove pin feathers if there are any. Paint all over 
with a brush dipped in olive oil. Place on a broiler and broil quickly from 
ten to twelve minutes. Garnish with slices of orange through which a sprig 
of parsley has been run. 

VEAL LOAF 

1 pound veal 1 cup milk 

1 pound chunk pork 1 cup cracker crumbs 
34 pound ham 2 eggs 

Grind the three meats together. Season with salt and pepper. Add the milk 
to the cracker crumbs and let soak five minutes. Add to the meat and then 
add the beaten eggs. Bake one and one-half hours in a medium oven. 

JELLIED TUNA FISH 

2 tablespoons granulated gel- 1 teaspoon salt 

atin 1 teaspoon mustard 

2 tablespoons cold water 1 cup milk 

2 egg yolks beaten well 2 tablespoons vinegar 

Add milk to egg yolks and the dry ingredients. Place in double boiler. Add 
the gelatin which has soaked in the cold water and the vinegar. Cook until 
thick. Set aside to cool. Add two egg whites beaten stiff and one No. 2^ can 
tuna. Place in mold which has been garnished with pimiento, green pepper 
and hard cooked egg. 

NUT LOAF 

2 cups soft bread crumbs 1 egg 

\y 2 cups chopped peanuts Y\ cup milk 

1 cup cooked rice 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Salt and pepper to taste Milk to moisten 

Mix all materials and bake one-half hour in a moderate oven. Salted pea- 
nuts may be used in order to save time in preparation, and no salt will need 
to be added to the mixture. This is best served with a tomato sauce. 



[24] 



^$ ADDITIONAL RECIPES 




[*5] 



^ PICKLES AND PRESERVES £^ 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES 

1 peck green tomatoes 6 green peppers 
5 large white onions 1 cup salt 

Wash tomatoes and slice in one-half inch slices. Chop up onions and green 
pepper. Sprinkle salt over all three ingredients. Let stand over night. Rinse. 
Cook in weak vinegar and water twenty minutes. Drain. Cook in following 
syrup for one and one-half hours: 

2 pounds light brown sugar 1 ounce cloves, allspice, and 
y 2 pound white mustard seed stick cinnamon 

iy 2 quarts vinegar 

OLIVE OIL PICKLES 

100 pickles 8 small onions 

Cut cucumbers in desired thickness; add chopped onions. Place three or 
four inches of the pickles in a stone jar and then cover with a handful of 
salt. Repeat until all the pickles have been covered. Let stand for three 
hours. Drain in sack over night. Mix three quarts vinegar, one-half cup 
white mustard seed, one cup oil, one tablespoon celery seed, half teaspoon 
red pepper, and half tablespoon white pepper and add to pickles. Let stand 
for three days. Stir the mixture often. Can at the end of the three days. 

JELLO RELISH 

1 package lemon jello y 2 cup chopped celery 

1 pint boiling water y 2 cup chopped sweet pickles 
y 2 can pimiento x / 2 cup chopped nuts 

2 tablespoons vinegar x /\ cup chopped green olives 

Add the boiling water to the jello. Add vinegar. Let cool, and when par- 
tially congealed add the other ingredients. Mold. Serve on lettuce. 

PICKLED PEACHES 

1 peck peaches 1 tablespoon cinnamon extract 

4 pounds light brown sugar or 2 ounces stick cinnamon 

1 quart vinegar y 2 tablespoon clove extract or 

y 2 ounce whole cloves 
Boil sugar and vinegar twenty minutes. Peel peaches, put into syrup and 
add extracts, and cook until soft. Cook only a few peaches at a time. When 
soft, place in jar, pour hot syrup over them and seal. If whole cloves and 
stick cinnamon are used they must be added to the syrup when it is first put 
on to boil. 

"" Peaches may be steamed and then have the hot syrup poured over them 
in the jar instead of boiling them in the syrup. 

[26] 



^ PICKLES AND PRESERVES ^ 

COLD TOMATO RELISH 

One peck ripe tomatoes (preferably solid red ones with few seeds). Remove 
as many of seeds as possible. Chop into half inch cubes. Drain over night. 
In the morning add six large onions chopped fine and two cups chopped 
celery, three large sweet red peppers, two pounds granulated sugar, five 
cups strong vinegar, one cup salt, and two ounces white mustard seed. Mix. 
Let stand over night. Put into cold bottles and seal. 

MUSTARD PICKLES 

1 quart small cucumbers 3 stalks celery 

1 quart small onions 6 tablespoons mustard 

1 green tomato \ J /i cups sugar 

. . 6 large green peppers 1 cup flour 

1 head cauliflower 2 quarts vinegar 

Soak in weak salt water twenty-four hours. Cook in same water until tender. 
Drain. Mix mustard, sugar and flour and add heated vinegar to the dry in- 
gredients slowly. Cook in double boiler thirty minutes. Add this to the 
pickles and seal. 

GOLDENROD MARMALADE 

Cut the white rind of a watermelon. Lay in cold water over night. Next 
morning drain. Put through food chopper. Put in cold water. Bring to the 
boil and boil until tender. Peel four oranges and two lemons. Put the rinds 
through the chopper. Cover with cold water and let boil until tender. Drain. 
Put pulp through the chopper, add rinds. Put in kettle with six pounds of 
sugar. Boil two hours. Seal. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

2 oranges 1 grape fruit 
2 lemons 

Grind the fruit and peeling twice. To every pint of fruit add three pints of 
water. Let stand twenty-four hours. Bring to the boiling point. Let stand 
twenty-four hours again. When it is two-thirds its original bulk add the 
heated sugar slowly. Three-fourths pound sugar should be added to every 
pint of fruit juice and water of the original measurement. Cook until thick- 
ens, when put in cold dish. 

PEACH AND ORANGE CONSERVE 

2 dozen peaches halved % pound sugar to every pound 

6 oranges sliced thin fruit 

Place fruit and sugar in layers. Let stand over night. Boil one hour. This is 
a very simple conserve but very delicious. Each fruit adds to the other. 



[27] 



f§ PICKLES AND PRESERVES ^ 

PEAR CONSERVE 

8 pounds pears 1 small box or 1 small jar 

4 pounds sugar preserved Canton ginger 

Juice 2 lemons 
Cut pears in small cubes. Cook with other ingredients until thick. 

RASPBERRY BAR-LE-DUC 

1 quart of perfect red rasp- 3 cups sugar 

berries 1 cup red raspberry juice 

1 cupful currant juice 

Combine fruit juices, add sugar, let boil until they are very thick and almost 
a jelly. Drop in raspberries, a few at a time. Cook for three minutes. Remove 
with a skimmer to small glasses. When all the berries are cooked, the syrup 
will be thinned considerably. Boil it down until it is very thick again. Pour 
on to the cooked berries. Seal. 

YELLOW TOMATO PRESERVE 

This is good to serve with meats or as a sauce over plain ice cream. 

3 pints small yellow tomatoes 1 lemon 

3 pints sugar J / 2 oz. ginger root 

y 2 pint water 

Pour boiling water over the tomatoes and peel. Cut up lemon and ginger 
root into small pieces. Cook sugar and water until it hairs and then add 
other ingredients. Cook about one hour until thick. 

RUMMAGE PICKLE 

2 quarts green tomatoes 3 sweet green peppers 
1 quart red tomatoes 1 small head cabbage 

3 small bunches celery 1 large ripe cucumber 
3 large onions y 2 coffee cup salt 

Chop vegetables fine, add three pints vinegar, two pounds brown sugar, one 
teaspoon mustard, one teaspoon pepper. Cook until clear, about one hour. 

MINT JELLY 

\ l / 2 tablespoon gelatin 1 cup sugar 

1 cup cold water 1 bunch mint 

1 cup vinegar Green vegetable coloring 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water. Boil the sugar and vinegar five minutes 
and add to the soaked gelatin. Add the mint chopped very finely. Let stand 
until cool. Strain out mint. Color very slightly with green coloring. Place in 
individual molds to cool. This is an excellent accompaniment for lamb. 
Without the gelatin and the green coloring this makes a fine mint sauce. 



[28] 



^ VEGETABLES 



SWEET POTATO AND APPLES 

6 medium sized sweet potatoes Y\ cup light brown sugar 

3 tart apples 2 teaspoons salt 

y 2 cup butter Yz teaspoon cinnamon 

Boil sweet potatoes, remove the skins. Peel apples, core, and slice in small 
pieces. Alternate layers of sliced potato, apples, and then the seasonings, 
cutting the butter in small lumps. Bake slowly forty-five minutes or until 
the apple is thoroughly done. Cover this while baking. This is a fine com- 
bination to serve with duck, pork, goose, etc. 

OKRA CREOLE 

1 pound of fresh okra or 1 No. 2>4 can of okra. 

If fresh okra is used, cut in one-inch pieces and boil until tender. Place 
the okra in a baking dish. Fry one green pepper and three slices of onion in 
two tablespoons oil. Add one cup tomato puree, salt and pepper to taste. 
Pour this over the okra. Place buttered crumbs on top and bake slowly for 
one hour. 

HARVARD BEETS 

2 bunches fresh beets 1 teaspoon salt 

y 2 cup water 2 tablespoons butter 

y 2 cup cider vinegar 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

%. cup sugar 
Cook the beets until they are tender, remove the skin, slice. Make a sauce 
of the other ingredients by heating the water and vinegar, adding the sugar 
mixed with the cornstarch, salt and melted butter. Cook until it has thick- 
ened. Pour over the sliced beets. 



[29] 




[30] 



J^ DESSERTS ^ 

PLAIN PASTRY 

\y 2 cups pastry flour 1 teaspoon salt 

y 2 cup lard Ice water 

Cut the lard into the flour and salt with a silver knife. Do not cut the lard 
into pieces smaller than a pea. Add two or three tablespoons ice water or 
just enough to make the dough stick together. (The dryest pie crust is the 
best.) Roll as quickly as possible and in as cool a place as possible the de- 
sired thickness. Place pastry in a hot oven at first and then reduce the heat. 
This makes a two-crust pie. For one crust only use one cup flour, one-third 
cup lard and two-thirds teaspoon salt. 

CHESS PIE 

1 cup sultana raisins 3 egg yolks 

y 2 cup melted butter 3 egg whites for meringue 

1 cup sugar Juice of y 2 lemon 

y 2 cup chopped walnuts y± teaspoon salt 

y 2 cup cream 
Mix the raisins, butter, sugar, nuts, lemon juice, salt, cream and egg yolks 
well beaten. Place in a crust of plain pastry and place in a hot oven. Reduce 
the heat after the first eight minutes. After twenty minutes remove the pie 
from the oven and place a meringue made of the egg whites, one-fourth 
teaspoon salt and two tablespoons powdered sugar on the pie. Return to 
oven and bake slowly until meringue is done. 

DATE NUT PUDDING 

1 scant cup sugar 3 eggs 

1 tablespoon flour 1 pound dates 

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 pound nuts in the shell 

y± teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Sift the sugar, flour, baking powder and salt. Add the beaten eggs. Add dates 
which have been stoned and cut in quarters, and the nuts broken in pieces. 
Add the flavoring. Bake slowly for thirty-five minutes. Serve with whipped 
cream. This may be made very thin, cut in strips to serve with afternoon tea. 

RAISIN PIE 

1 cup cold water Rind and juice of 1 lemon 

1 cup sugar 1 cup raisins 

1 tablespoon corn starch J /\. teaspoon salt 

Mix cornstarch, sugar and salt. Add the water and lemon and raisins to this. 
Cook all together until the cornstarch thickens. Place in a baked shell and 
cover with a meringue or between a two-crust pie and bake in a hot oven. 



[31] 



as 



DESSERTS ^ 



BUTTER SCOTCH PIE 

1 cup brown sugar 3 tablespoons butter 

1 cup milk 2 egg yolks 

2 teaspoons vanilla 34 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons flour 

Mix the flour with the brown sugar and add the scalded milk to this. Cook 
in double boiler for twenty minutes. Add the egg yolks and cook until they 
thicken. Add butter and vanilla. Place in a baked pie shell and place a 
meringue on it. Brown slowly. This is easier to handle if made in individual 
pies or tarts. 

CARAMEL CUSTARD 

4 cups scalded milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

5 eggs Y2. cup sugar 
y 2 teaspoon salt 

Put one-half the sugar in a skillet, stir constantly until it is melted. Let it 
burn, add one-half cup hot water, boil to a thick syrup. Add the remaining 
sugar and the salt to the eggs. Add the scalded milk slowly, and then the 
vanilla and two teaspoons of the caramel syrup. Strain. Bake in ramekins 
set in hot water in a slow oven until it will not stick to a silver knife. Never 
let the water in the baking pan boil as this will make a watery custard. 

GOLDEN PUDDING 

4 cups soft bread crumbs 1 cup orange marmalade 

y 3 cup butter 6 egg yolks 

1 cup sugar y> teaspoon salt 

y 2 cup milk 

Soak bread in milk five minutes, add egg yolks well beaten, then sugar and 
butter, which has first been melted, and lastly the orange marmalade. Place 
in a greased baking dish. Make a meringue of the whites and three table- 
spoons of powdered sugar. Bake in a slow oven for forty minutes. 

RAISIN ROLL 

1 cup raisins (sultana pre- 2 cups flour 

ferably) 24 teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar 2^ teaspoons baking powder 

Juice of 1 lemon 3 tablespoons lard 

Water Milk 

Put raisins, sugar and lemon juice in a saucepan, cover with water and cook 
slowly until raisins are soft and juice is like syrup. Sift flour, baking 
powder and salt. Rub in lard and then mix a soft dough with milk. Roll 
to one-fourth of an inch in thickness, spread with raisin mixture, roll up, 
place in greased pan, pour juice and two teaspoons butter over. Bake in a 
hot oven twenty minutes. Serve with cream. 



[32] 



Y§ DESSERTS ^ 

COFFEE SAGO PUDDING 

2 cups boiled coffee *4 c u P sugar 

}i cup sago y& teaspoon salt 

Cook the sago in the coffee in a double boiler until transparent. Add the 
sugar and salt. Serve with whipped cream. 

APRICOT WHIP 

1 No iy 2 can apricots Juice of one lemon 

or y 2 pound dried apri- 34 teaspoon salt 
cots Whites 4 eggs 

y 2 cup sugar 
Strain the juice from the apricots, press the fruit through the sieve. (If using 
dried apricots soak one-half day, then cook slowly until tender.) Add the 
sugar, salt and lemon juice to the strained fruit. Beat the egg whites until 
stiff and dry. Fold the egg whites into the pulp. Serve with a soft custard 
made from one and one-half cups of milk, the four egg yolks, one-fourth cup 
sugar and one teaspoon vanilla. 

PRUNE WHIP No. i 

y 2 pound prunes Whites 4 eggs 

Y\ cup sugar 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

Pinch salt 
Soak prunes several hours; cook in same water in which they were soaked 
until soft; remove stones and rub prunes through a strainer. Add the sugar 
and cook five minutes. Add this prune mixture to the stiffly beaten whites 
when it is cold. Add the lemon juice. Bake twenty to thirty minutes in a 
pan of water in a slow oven. When done open the oven door and let the 
whip stand in the oven for five minutes. This cools it off gradually so it will 
not fall. Serve with cream or soft custard. 

PRUNE WHIP No. 2 

y 2 pound prunes 1 pint of double cream 

Y^ cup sugar 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

Pinch salt ' y 2 cup shelled pecans 

Cook the prunes as above, strain through a colander or chop finely. The 
prunes want to be in a coarser condition than for the first recipe. Add the 
sugar and lemon juice to the prunes. Fold them in to the cream which has 
been beaten stiffly. Add the pecans which have been broken into fine pieces. 
One-fourth teaspoon cinnamon added to this improves the flavor where 
families care for the flavor of cinnamon. 



[33] 



^ DESSERTS £^ 

SNOW BALLS 

y 2 cup butter 3j/2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup sugar Whites of 4 eggs 
24 cup milk 2 teaspoons vanilla 

2 cups flour 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, alternately add the milk with the 
flour and baking powder. Fold in the whites which have been beaten stiffly 
and to which an eighth of a teaspoon of salt has been added. Steam for 
thirty-five minutes in buttered cups covered with a piece of oiled paper. 
Serve with strawberry sauce. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE 

34 cup butter 1 cup whole strawberries 

1 cup powdered sugar }4 teaspoon soda 

Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually. Mash and strain the berries 
and add the soda to this juice. If the berries are not very tart add less soda. 
Add the fruit juice very slowly to the creamed butter and sugar so it will not 
curdle. Keep this on ice until it is to be used so it will not become too warm 
and curdle. Serve this on the hot steamed cake. 



CREAM PUFFS 

1 cup boiling water 3 eggs 

y 2 cup butter x /\ teaspoon salt 

1 cup bread flour 

Put water and butter in saucepan. Heat to the boiling point. Add the flour 
all at once. Cook until it cleaves from the sides of the pan. Set aside to cool. 
When cold, add the unbeaten eggs one at a time beating thoroughly after 
each egg is added. Chill this paste. Drop in greased muffin tins and bake 
for twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. When cold open a hole in the side 
and fill with a cream custard. 

CREAM FILLING 

2 cups milk 2 eggs or 4 egg yolks 
24 cup sugar 2 teaspoons butter 

]/ 2 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons vanilla 

y 2 cup flour 

Scald milk. Mix sugar, flour and salt thoroughly. Add scalded milk to the 
dry ingredients very slowly. Cook in double boiler for three-quarters of an 
hour, stirring constantly until it thickens and then only occasionally. Re- 
move from stove, add butter and vanilla. When cold, add one-half cup 
whipped cream to this and then fill the puffs. 



[34] 



$5 DESSERTS £^ 

CRANBERRY ICE 

1 quart cranberries 2^ cups sugar 

2 cups water Juice of 2 lemons 

Cook the cranberries and water ten minutes. Rub through a sieve. Add the 
sugar, cook for three minutes or until all the sugar is thoroughly dissolved. 
Cool. Add lemon juice. Freeze. An excellent ice to serve with turkey, roast 
chicken, or with roast veal. 

TRILBY PUDDING 

This dessert is easily prepared and makes a pleasing change from ice cream 

or ice. 

1 pound marshmallows 1 pint whipped cream 

I cup blanched almonds 
Cut up the marshmallows with a pair of scissors, shred the blanched almonds 
with a sharp knife and whip the cream very stiff. Mix the ingredients to- 
gether and place on the ice or in a cool place for three hours. Serve in ice 
cups and sprinkle chopped nuts or macaroon crumbs over the top or garnish 
with maraschino cherries. 

LEMON SPONGE PIE 

This pie has the whites of the eggs beaten in with the other ingredients and 

is without a meringue. 

Yolks of 3 eggs Juice and rind of 1 lemon 

y 2 cup sugar 3 tablespoons of hot water 

Cook to a custard in a double boiler. Beat the white of the eggs and stir in 
one-half cup of sugar. Whip this into the custard and place in a crust which 
has been baked. Brown in a rather quick oven. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM 

1 cup ground chocolate 1 tablespoon butter 

Y\ cup granulated sugar 1 cup water 

y 2 teaspoon salt 1 cup milk 

Mix the chocolate (or cocoa), sugar and salt. Add very slowly the cup of 
water which has been brought to a boil. Cook this mixture for eight minutes 
over free flame, stirring constantly as both chocolate and sugar burn easily. 
Add the scalded milk slowly to this first mixture after it has cooked the 
eight minutes, return to double boiler and cook for forty-five minutes. Add 
the butter when it is done. A larger quantity may be made and reheated 
when desired to serve. If this becomes too thick, milk, water, or hot chocolate 
may be added to dilute it. 



[35 



p<S DESSERTS '$< 

MERINGUE 

This is a good dessert for one who prepares her own dinners as the shells 
can be made the day before and no cake is required with the dessert. 

Beat the white of one egg very stiff and beat in a scant one-half cup of 
sugar and one-half teaspoon vanilla. Drop on a greased tin, dropping a 
small tablespoon on top of another very lightly. Two eggs will make five 
small shells. The amount can be increased to any number desired. Bake in 
a very slow oven forty-five minutes to one hour. Cut the shells open and 
fill with ice cream or whipped cream into which you have stirred fruit or 
chopped nuts. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM 

2 cups hot milk 1 egg or 2 yolks 

1 tablespoon flour 1 quart cream 

2 cups sugar \y 2 tablespoon vanilla 
Y% teaspoon salt 

Mix flour, sugar and salt. Add scalded milk slowly. Return to double boiler 
and cook one-half hour. Add egg and cook two minutes. Strain. Cool. When 
cold, add cream and flavoring. Freeze. This makes a smooth, velvety ice 
cream. 

BRANDY SAUCE SUBSTITUTE 

Cream one-fourth cup butter. Add slowly one cup light brown sugar. Add 
the yolk of one egg, two tablespoons canned apricot juice, one-half teaspoon 
vanilla, and then one cup of sweet milk. Mix well. Cook in double boiler 
until mixture thickens. Keep warm until time to serve. Pour this into the 
stiffly beaten white of one egg. Add a few gratings of nutmeg. 

FRUIT COCKTAIL 

A most delicious fruit cocktail and one which is rather unusual is made 
with equal quantities of sliced peaches and cantaloupe — one and one-half 
cups each. Add one-fourth cup of sugar and the juice of two lemons. Chill 
thoroughly. This is good for a dessert or for a first course for a luncheon. 
The lemon prevents the peaches from turning dark as well as adding very 
materially to the flavor. 

WASHINGTON PIE 

Make a loaf cake mixture of the Sunshine Cake recipe. Cut in squares. 
Place two tablespoons of the cream custard for the cream puff filling 
on the cake. Add one large spoonful of whipped cream which has been 
slightly sweetened and flavored with vanilla. 



[36] 



AS ADDITIONAL RECIPES 




$S CAKES ffi 

WHITE NUT CAKE 

% cup butter y teaspoon cream of tartar 

\y 2 cups sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 

\]/ 2 cups milk 1 cup walnut meats 

iy 2 cups flour Whites of 6 eggs 

y teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons vanilla 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, then alternately add the milk 
with the flour which has been mixed and sifted with the baking powder. 
Reserve two tablespoons of the flour to place on the broken nut meats. Beat 
the egg whites stiff. When these are half done add the cream of tartar. Fold 
in the whites and then the nuts. Add the flavoring and bake in a loaf cake 
tin for fifty minutes in a slow oven. 

GINGERBREAD 

34 cup Wesson oil 2 teaspoons ginger 

y 2 cup sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 egg 1 teaspoon salt 

\}i cups flour y cup molasses 

1 teaspoon soda y 2 cup sour milk 

Mix the oil, sugar, salt and egg well beaten. Mix and sift the flour with the 
soda, ginger, cinnamon. Add the milk to the molasses and add this alter- 
nately with the dry ingredients. Beat thoroughly. Bake in a moderate oven 
for twenty-five to thirty minutes. Do not use too dark a molasses as it will 
make this bitter. This may be served with chocolate sauce or whipped cream 
as a dessert. 

BROWNIES 

1 cup sugar y 2 cup flour 

y± cup melted butter 24 teaspoon vanilla 

1 egg y 2 cup nuts 

2 squares chocolate y± teaspoon salt 

Add the melted butter to the sugar. Add the egg well beaten, and then the 
melted chocolate. Add the flour and salt and lastly the nuts and vanilla. 
Bake in a thin sheet in a dripping pan for thirty minutes in a slow oven. 

BURNT CARAMEL CAKE 

Cream one and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup butter and yolks of two 
eggs. Add one cup of water, two cups pastry flour, three teaspoons caramel 
and a pinch of salt. Beat five minutes. Add one-half cup flour mixed with 
two teaspoons baking powder. Fold in the whites of two eggs. Bake in a 
moderate oven until it will not stick to a toothpick. 



[38] 



ifo CAKES ^ 

CARAMEL 

Melt one-half cup sugar in an iron skillet. Burn to a rich brown. Add one- 
half cup hot water. Boil to a thick syrup. 

SCOTCH SHORTBREAD 

1 cup sweet butter 4 cups flour 

1 cup salt butter 2 teaspoons vanilla 

1 cup light brown sugar 
Cream the butter and sugar for one-half hour. Add the flour slowly, rubbing 
it into a thick paste. Knead for twenty minutes. Bake one-half inch thick in 
diamond shaped squares in a very slow oven until golden brown. Keep in tin. 

ROCKS 

% cup butter y teaspoon soda 

\ J /> cups light brown sugar y 2 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 eggs Y<\ cup raisins 
34 teaspoon salt 24 CU P nut s 

2 teaspoons vanilla \}i cups flour 

Cream the butter and sugar together. Add the eggs well beaten. Mix the 
flour with the salt, soda and cinnamon. Add three tablespoons of the dry 
ingredients to the nuts and raisins. Then add the dry ingredients to the 
butter and sugar mixture and beat thoroughly. Add the nuts, raisins and 
vanilla. Bake on a greased baking sheet for twenty minutes in a moderately 
hot oven. Drop these cookies by teaspoon one inch apart. 

CITRON CAKE 

y 2 cup butter 1^ teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup sugar J4 teaspoon salt 

3 eggs % cup citron cut in thing 
Yi cup milk strips 

2 cups flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, the yolks of the eggs well beaten, 
and then the other dry ingredients which have been sifted together. Alter- 
nate the latter with the milk. Fold in the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Add 
the vanilla and citron. Bake in a very slow oven one hour. 

SUNSHINE CAKE 

Seven eggs beaten separately, one-fourth teaspoon cream of tartar added to 
the whites when half beaten. Fold in one cup of sugar when the whites are 
beaten stiff. Add the beaten yolks, one tablespoon vanilla, and three-fourths 
cup of flour which has been sifted. Bake in a moderate oven forty minutes. 



[39] 



?<S CAKES ^ 

OATMEAL WAFERS 

\y 2 cups rolled oats 2 teaspoons vanilla 

y 2 cup sugar 1 scant cup of flour 

l / 2 cup butter 5 teaspoons milk 

1 egg 34 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons baking powder 
Mix the sugar and oatmeal, add the melted butter but not while it is hot. 
Add the egg which has been well beaten, milk and vanilla, flour and baking 
powder. Bake in a hot oven after they have been flattened out to the thick- 
ness of heavy cardboard with a spatula dipped in cold water. Remove from 
the baking sheet at once after taking from the oven. These are delicious for 
afternoon teas or to accompany an ice after a hearty meal as they are not 
rich. 

CRUMPETTES 

2 cups rolled oats y 2 cup raisins 
1 cup flour J / 2 cup chopped walnuts 
y 2 cup butter y 2 teaspoon soda in 
1 cup brown sugar y, cup boiling water 

Cream butter and sugar and rub in other ingredients, mix in soda and water 
and let stand one hour. Roll very thin and bake quickly. 

DOUGHNUTS 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 piece butter size of an egg 

3 teaspoons baking powder y$ nutmeg 
1 cup milk 2 eggs 
y 2 teaspoon salt 3y 2 cups flour (generous) 

Beat butter, sugar and eggs together fifteen minutes; add the milk, then the 
flour with the baking powder and salt. Mix very soft, roll out one-half inch 
thick, cut with cutter with hole in the middle and fry quickly in hot fat. 
Roll in powdered sugar as needed. The secret in making these is to mix in as 
little flour as possible. It is best to stir in only part in the bowl and then 
take a little at a time on the board, adding flour as needed. 

LAYER CAKE 

24 cup butter \y 2 teaspoon baking powder 

\y 2 cups sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla 

1 y 2 cups flour 2 whole eggs 

24 cup milk 2 extra egg whites 

J4 teaspoon salt 
Cream the butter, sugar, salt and egg yolks. Sift the flour and baking powder 
and add alternately with the milk to the sugar and butter mixture. Beat 



[40] 



as 



CAKES ^ 



thoroughly. Fold in the whites beaten stiffly and the vanilla. Bake one-half 
hour in medium oven in layer cake tins. This is too rich for a loaf cake. 

FIG FILLING 

Cook one-half pound dried figs with one-half cup sugar and two cups of 
water. Strain the juice from the solid part. Grind these figs with one-fourth 
cup of raisins. Add one teaspoon of vanilla. Spread this on a layer cake. 
Spread over the fig mixture an icing made of one egg white, one and one-half 
cups powdered sugar, and two teaspoons of lemon juice. 

ORANGE FILLING 

y 2 cup sweet butter or salt 2 cups powdered sugar 

butter which has been Juice and grated rind of 1 
washed orange 

Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually. When all the sugar has been 
worked in add the orange juice and rind. If the orange has an extra quantity 
of juice, more powdered sugar will have to be added. Spread on a cold cake 
and keep in a cool place. One-fourth cup of shaved bitter chocolate sprinkled 
over the top of this cake improves the flavor, as orange and bitter chocolate 
are a good combination. 



[41] 




[42] 



ff\ SIMPLE LUNCHEON MENUS ^S 


I 


VII 


Shrimp Cocktail* Cheese Wafers 


Tomato Bisque* Rummage Pickles* 


Mushroom and Noodle Timbale* 


Ham and Corn Southern* 


Buttered Lima Beans 


Hot Baking Powder Biscuits 


Fruit Rolls* 


Coffee Sago* with Whipped Cream 


Tea 


Orange Cake* 


II 


VIII 


Artichoke Salad 
Crabflake and Bacon* 


Cheese and Onion Soup* 
Bread Sticks 


Stuffed Potato 
Jello Relish* Meringues* 


Jellied Tuna Fish* 
Cold Tomato Pickle* 


Tea or Coffee 


Small Graham Muffins* 


III 


Butterscotch Tarts* 


Peach and Cantaloupe Cocktail* 


IX 


Oatmeal Wafers* 

Cheese Toast and Bacon* 

Yellow Tomato Preserves* 

Prune Whip* and Custard 


Clam Chowder* Wafers 

Bacon and Apple Rings* 

Hot Biscuits Pear Conserve* 

Rocks* Tea 


IV 

Lobster Cocktail* 

Celery with 

Roquefort Cheese Dressing* 

Curried Eggs* with Rice, Chutney 

Sliced Tomatoes with French 

Dressing 

Tea 


X 

Oyster Stew Olives 

Veal Birds* 

Sweet Potatoes Glace 

Mustard Pickles* 

Finger Rolls 
Brownies* Tea 


V 


XI 


Pineapple Waldorf Salad 

Cinnamon Toast* 

Hot Chocolate 


Cream of Pea Soup Croutons 

Frozen Fruit Salad* 

Scotch Shortbread* Macaroons 

Coffee 


VI 


Salted Nuts 


Sweetbread Timbales 




Potato Puff 


XII 


Nut Bread* 


Chicken Salad Olives 


Pickled Peaches* 


Graham Gems with Dates* 


Lettuce with Russian Dressing 


Cream Puffs* 


Crumpettes* 


Coffee 


* Recipes to be found in this cook book 



[43] 



ff\ SIMPLE DINNER MENUS ffi 


I 


V 


Jellied Chicken Bouillon 


Clam Bisque Croutons Olives 


Steamed Halibut Hollandaise Sauce 


Crown of Lamb Mint Jelly* 


Hot Biscuit 


Mashed Potato Nests with 


Prime Ribs of Beef Horseradish 


Green Peas 


Yorkshire Pudding 


Dinner Rolls 


Fresh Asparagus 


Romaine Salad 


Sweet Potatoes and Apples 


Roquefort Cheese Dressing* 


Golden Pudding* Salted Nuts* 


Salt Wafers 


Coffee 


Raspberry Ice with Whipped Cream 




Demitasse 


II 




Stuffed Tomato Salad Wafers 

Cheese Souffle* 

Small Graham Muffins* 

Broiled Chickens Currant Jelly 

Potatoes Hashed in Cream 

Snowballs Strawberry Sauce* 

Coffee 


VI 

Smoked Salmon Canape 
Celery Stuffed with Pimiento Cheese 
Porterhouse Steak Broiled Bananas 

Creamed Mushrooms* 
Stuffed Potatoes 

Lemon Ice Macaroons 




Cafe Noir 


III 


VII 


Shrimp Cocktail* Saltines 

Pot Roast of Beef Noodles 

Harvard Beets* 

Olive Oil Pickles* 

Nut Biscuits 

Trilby* Citron Cake* 


Jellied Vegetable Salad* 

Broiled Mackerel, Lemon Butter 

Escalloped Tomatoes 

Persillade Potatoes 

Corn Bread 
Cream Puffs* or 


Coffee 


Wafers and Raspberry Bar le Due* 




Demitasse 


IV 




Sardine Canape* Celery 


VIII 


Filet of Beef Horseradish Sauce 


Oyster Bisque Bread Sticks 


Fresh Lima Beans, Buttered 


Olives 


Delmonico Potatoes 


Roast Duck Apple Sauce Celery 


Penny Rolls 


Sweet Potatoes Glace 


Strawberry Bavarian Cream 


Escalloped Onions 


Angel Food Cake 


Lemon Sponge Pie* 


Coffee 


Cafe Noir 


* Recipes to be found in this cook book 



[44] 



as 



SIMPLE DINNER MENUS 



2R 



IX 

Vegetable Soup* Wafers 

Roast Loin of Pork Apple Sauce 

Onions Glace 

Stuffed Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Strawberry Ice 

White Nut Cake* 

Demitasse 



XI 

Alligator Pear Salad 

French Dressing* 

Steamed Salmon, Egg Sauce 

Mashed Potatoes 

Spinach or Peas 

Chess Pie* Brie Cheese 

Coffee 



X 

Clams on the Half Shell 

Horseradish 

Consomme Bread Sticks 

Roast Chicken Pear Conserve* 

Escalloped Potatoes 

Artichokes, Drawn Butter 

Apricot Whip* Sunshine Cake* 

Coffee 



XII 

Combination Vegetable Salad 

Cheese Straws* 

Baked Ham 

Sweet Potatoes and Apples* 

Spinach 

Maple Sugar Biscuit* 

Pineapple Frozen Pudding* 

Coffee 



Recipes to be found in this cook book 



[45] 



as 



HOLIDAY MENUS 



2R 



I_NEW YEAR'S 

Broiled Oysters on the Half Shell 

with Bacon* 

Bread Sticks 

Olives Celery Salted Pecans 

Consomme 

Artichoke Timbale with Mushrooms 

Roast Duck Bread Sauce 

Spiced Apples 

Potato Puff Brussels Sprouts 

Frozen Pudding 

Wafers Camembert Cheese 

Cafe Noir 

II— LINCOLN'S BIRTHDAY 

Shrimp Cocktail* 

Olives 

Celery Stuffed with Roquefort 

Cheese Dressing* 

Swedish Timbales with Sweetbreads 

Roast Squab, Sliced Chilled Oranges 

Asparagus Hollandaise 

Dinner Rolls 

Nesselrode Pudding Sunshine Cake* 

Cafe Noir 

III— VALENTINES DAY 

Heart Shaped Smoked Salmon 

Canapes 

Artichokes Hollandaise Sauce 

Roast Capon Cranberry Molds 

Sweet Potatoes Southern Style 

Escalloped Onions 

Dinner Rolls 

Fancy Ice Cream Angel Food 

Salted Almonds* 

Demitasse 



IV— WASHINGTON'S 
BIRTHDAY 

Black Cherry Cocktail 

Salted Nuts* 

Crown of Lamb 

Mint Ice 

Green Peas 

Stuffed Potatoes 

Raisin Roll* 

Brandy Sauce Substitute* 

Black Coffee 

V— ST. PATRICK'S 
BIRTHDAY 

Artichoke Salad 
Filet of Beef, Larded 

Horseradish Sauce 

Irish Potatoes au Natural 

with Parsley 

Creamed Spinach 

Shamrock Rolls 

Creme de Menthe Ice 

French Pastry in Fancy Shapes 

Green Mints 

Demitasse 

VI— APRIL FOOL'S DAY 

(A good idea is to serve the meal 

backward) 

Coffee (served in finger bowls) 

Fried Chicken with Fresh 

Mushrooms* 

(Served in soup plates) 

Green Peas 

(Served in demitasse cups) 

Stuffed Tomato Salad 

(Served in large coffee cups) 

Fresh Strawberry Cocktail 

(Served in small cream pitchers) 



Recipes to be found in this cook book 



[46] 



fS. 



HOLIDAY MENUS 



2* 



VII— EASTER 

Oyster Cocktail* 

Olives Celery Radishes 

Sweetbread Timbales 

Stuffed Tomato Salad 

Roast Spring Lamb Mint Jelly* 

or 

Roast Chicken Currant Jelly 

Creamed Potatoes New Peas 

Parker House Rolls 

Strawberry Short Cake 

Coffee Mints 

VIII— MAY DAY 

Chilled Fruit Oatmeal Wafers* 

Calves Brains au Beam 

Celery Radish Rosebuds 

Broiled Chickens 

Sweet Potatoes Glace 

Green Asparagus 

Strawberry Parfait 

Burnt Caramel Cake* 

Demitasse 

IX— JUNE— A WEDDING 
DINNER 

Fruit Cocktail* 

Chicken Patties Green Peas 

Persillade Potatoes 

Minute Rolls 

Olives Salted Nuts* 

Bombe Glace Wedding Cakes 

Coffee 

X— JULY FOURTH 

Jellied Chicken Bouillon 

Cheese Wafers 

Vegetable Combination Salad 

Baked Ham Currant Jelly 

Sweet Potatoes Southern 

Asparagus Hollandaise 

Vanilla Ice Cream* Strawberry Ice 

White Nut Cake* Coffee 



XI— BASTILLE DAY 

Pate de fois gras canape 
Consomme de volaille 

Cervelles de veau 

Chartreuse de vegetable 

Deviled Crab en coquilles Pois 

Salade de Laitue Fromage Dressing* 

Cherry Tourte or Biscuit Glace 

Cafe noir 

XII— HALLOWE'EN 

Jack-o-Lantern Canapes 

Crab Flake Louis Wafers 

Roast Wild Duck Currant Jelly 

Yams Southern Style 

Escalloped Onions 

Pumpkin Pie Salted Nuts* Cider 

Demitasse 

XIII— THANKSGIVING 

Oysters on the Half Shell 

Celery Olives Gherkins 

Bouillon Bread Sticks 

Roast Turkey Chestnut Stuffing 

Cranberry Ice* 

Creamed Onions Mashed Potatoes 

Baked Squash 

Pineapple-Waldorf Salad 

Cheese Straws* 

Mince and Pumpkin Pie 

Brie Cheese 

Layer Raisins Cracked Nuts 

Mints Coffee 

XIV— CHRISTMAS 

Sea Food Cocktail* Olives 

Julienne Soup 

Sweetbread and Brain Timbales 

Roast Goose Dressing 

Potato Fritters Escalloped Celery 

Tomato Aspic Salad 

Biscuit Tortoni in Boxes 

Mints Nuts Wafers and Cheese 

Coffee 



Recipes to be found in this cook book 



[47] 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



014 481 613 4 



