V PRACTICAL (i 
D IETETIC S 

DIETin HEALTH 

AND 

DISEASE 




MEMCAL SCW 





Training School 
for Nurses. 




,d^J- 7tf\l«<eUZzl (?Jr 



^— y 







yitfrtM*+JU^ /Jty, 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 
WITH REFERENCE TO 
DIET IN HEALTH AND 
DISEASE *- #• 0- 0- 



PRACTICAL 

DIETETICS 

WITH REFERENCE TO 

DIET IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 

BY 

ALIDA FRANCES JATTEE 

Graduate, Department of Household Arts, State Normal School, 
Framingham, Mass. 

Former Instructor in Dietetics, Bellevue Training School for Nurses, 
Bellevue Hospital, New York City. 

Former Instructor at Mount Sinai, Hahnemann, and the Flower 

Hospital Training Schools for Nurses, New York City; 

Lakeside, St. Mary's, Trinity, and Wisconsin Training 

Schools for Nurses, Milwaukee Wis.; St. Joseph's 

Hospital, Chicago, 111. St. Vincent de Paul 

Hospital, Brockville, Ontario, Canada. 

FOURTEENTH EDITION 
COMPLETELY REVISED 



F 7 ! 



F. PATTEE, Publisher 

Mount Vernon, New York 

1923 



Set up, electrotyped, printed and copyrighted, June, 1903 

Reprinted July, 1904, February, 1905, October, 1906, and November, 1908 

Revised, reset, and recopy righted December, 1910 

Reprinted August 1912, October, 1913 

January, 1915, January, 1916 

Revised and recopyrighted 

February, 191 7, July, 1918, January, 1920 

Reprinted March, 1922, August, 1922, September, 1922, October, 1922 

Completely revised, reset, and recopyrighted January, 1923 

Copyright, 1903, 1904, 1905, 1910, 1916, 1917. 19*8, i9 2 °> x 923, by 
ALIDA FRANCES PATTEE 



Entered at Stationers' Hall, London 
All rights reserved 



P'-mted m L. S. A . * • •• • 



RMZ/6 

P3I 

/923 

D 



So tbe Craineo m ur0e: 
yabo0e oail P life is a 
Messing to bumamtt? 



/ f 



lb 



PREFACE TO THE FOURTEENTH EDITION 

The steadily increasing demand for this work since its 
last complete revision in 191 7 has resulted in the publica- 
tion of successive editions almost annually until it has again 
become necessary to revise the entire work. The present 
edition, while preserving as far as possible the original plan 
of the work, has been condensed in some parts and re- 
arranged in others, while special emphasis has been placed 
upon the source and value of vitamines and the grouping 
of diseases which are best treated by means of high calory, 
salt-free and other diets. In revising the work it has 
been arranged in accordance with the Dietetic Standard 
Curriculum for Schools of Nursing prepared by the Na- 
tional League of Nursing Education and the outline pre- 
pared by the American Dietetic Association. 

In this new edition four professors of leading schools of 
Household Arts have assisted in the revision of the theoret- 
ical portion of the work, while for the first time the chapters 
on "Diet in Disease" have been arranged under the personal 
supervision of leading members of the medical profession. 

The author takes this opportunity to acknowledge with 
thanks the valuable advice and assistance given by Mary 
Swartz Rose, Ph. D., Associate Professor, Department of 
Nutrition, Teachers' College, Columbia University, New 
York City. 

Miss Harriet Thompson Barto, Assistant Professor of 
Dietetics, University of Illinois. 

Miss Emma F. Holloway, Supervisor of Institutional 
Work and Hospital Dietetics, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, 
N. Y. 



M PREFACE 

Frederic W. Howe, Director of School of Household Sci- 
ence and Arts, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

For assistance and permission to use certain diets the 
author wishes to express her appreciation to : 

Dr. Warren Coleman, Assistant Professor of Medicine, 
University and Bellevue Hospital Medical College, Visiting 
Physician to Bellevue Hospital, New York City. 

Dr. Elliott P. Joslin, Assistant Professor of Medicine of 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass. 

Dr. F. M. Allen, Director, The Psychiatric Institute, 
Morristown, New Jersey. 

Dr. Max Einhorn, Professor of Medicine at the New 
York Post Graduate Medical School and Hospital, and Vis- 
iting Physician to the Lenox Hill Hospital, New York City ; 
Consulting Physician to the Post Graduate Hospital, New 
York City, White Plains Hospital, White Plains, New York, 
Hackensack Hospital, Hackensack, New Jersey. 

Dr. Herbert S. Carter, M.A., Assistant Professor of Clin- 
ical Medicine, Columbia University ; Consulting Physician 
to the Presbyterian Hospital, Lincoln Hospital, New York 
Skin and Cancer Hospital, New York City. 

Dr. B. Franklin Stahl, Clinical Professor of Medicine, 
Women's Medical College of Pennsylvania, Visiting Physi- 
cian to the St. Agnes and the Philadelphia General Hos- 
pital, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Dr. L. Emmett Holt, M.D., LL.D., Professor of Dis- 
eases of Children in the College of Physicians and Surgeons 
(Columbia University) Physician-in-Chief to the Babies' 
Hospital, New York City. 

Professor Paul E. Howe, M.A., Ph.D., Associate in An- 
imal Pathology, Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research ; 
Formerlly Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry, Co- 
lumbia University, New York; Nutrition Officer, Camp 
Kearny, California, Officer in Charge of Laboratory of Nu- 
trition Army Medical School, Washington, D. C. 

Dr. Howard H. Mason, A.B., Instructor in Diseases of 



PREFACE 



vn 



Children, Columbia University, New York ; Associate At- 
tending Physician to the Presbyterian Hospital ; Attending 
Physician to the Hospital for the Ruptured and Crippled, 
New York. 

Dr. T. C. Janeway, Professor of Medicine, Johns Hopkins 
University; Physician to Johns Hopkins Hospital, Balti- 
more, Md. 

Loomis Sanitarium, Loomis, New York. Bellevue Hos- 
pital, New York City. St. Luke's Hospital, New York 
City. Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass. 
Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, Boston, Mass. University 
Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Alida Frances Pattee. 

New York, October, 1922. 



INTRODUCTION 

In response to many requests from Superintendents of 
Training Schools and Dietitians, I have issued "Teacher's 
Dietetic Guide," containing the Dietetic Standard Cur- 
riculum for Schools of Nursing prepared by the National 
League of Nursing Education and the American Dietetic 
Association. 

"Teacher's Dietetic Guide" also outlines the dietetic re- 
quirements of the various State Boards of Examiners of 
Nurses, together with their State Examination questions. 
The arrangement of Pattee's "Practical Dietetics" has 
been made to correspond with and meet these requirements, 
so that the book can be readily used in connection with 
these outlines. 

These outlines arranged by the above authorities will prove 
of valuable assistance to the Superintendent and Dietitian 
in arranging the course of study in dietetics for the nurse, 
and will also prove helpful to the nurse in preparing for the 
State Examinations. 

"Teacher's Dietetic Guide" is given free with every copy 
of Pattee's "Practical Dietetics" and if not received when 
"Practical Dietetics" (14th Ed.) is purchased notify the 
bookdealer who filled your order and he will furnish a copy 
gratis. 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

Introduction viii 



PART I 

PRINCIPLES OF NUTRITION AND FOOD 

PREPARATION 

CHAPTER 

I Food 3 

Classification of Food 4 

II Nutrition 28 

Digestion — Absorption — Metabolism . . 28, 38, 42 

III Food Values 47 

Nitrogen Balance — Energy Value of Food . . 47-49 

IV Food Sanitation yy 

Selection and Care of Food — Adulteration of 
Food 77-8i 

V Methods of Cooking 83 

VI The Tray 89 

VII Measures and Weights 98 

PART II 

PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES 
OF NUTRITION 

VIII Animal Foods 109 

Meat 109 

Beef Preparations 121 

Beef Juice 121, 123 

Beef Tea 122, 124 

Raw Beef 123, 125 

Broth and Meat Jellies 126 

Sweetbreads 130 

Poultry and Game 133 

Fish 140 

Fish Sauces 145 

ix 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER 



PAGE 



Animal Foods (continued) 

Shell-Fish 147 

Oysters 147, 150 

Clams 149, 153 

Eggs 156 

Milk 165 

Milk Products 171 

Soup 183 

Soup Accompaniments 191 

IX Vegetable or Plant Foods 194 

Cereals 195 

Gruels 198 

Starchy Jellies 203 

Breakfast Foods 204 

Starchy Sauces 206 

Macaroni 207 

Bread 209 

Toast 218 

Sandwiches 222 

Crackers — Wafers — Griddle Cakes .... 224 

Cake 225 

Vegetables 229 

Vegetable Sauces 239 

Salads 240, 243 

Salad Dressings 240, 241 

Fruits 245 

Nuts 251 

Fungi and Algae 252 

X Nutritious Desserts 254 

Hot and Cold Desserts 255-286 

Soft Custards 255 

Baked Custards 256 

Whips and Souffles 259 

Junket 261 

Cornstarch Pudding or Bisnc Mange . . . 263 

Rice Puddings 266 

Tapioca Pudding 269 

Bread Puddings 271 

Cracker Puddings 273 

Pudding Sauces 273 

Gelatin Desserts 275 

Frozen Dessert 286 

Ice Cream 287 

Sherbet 291 

Ices 293 

XI Beverages 297 

Acid Beverages 297 

Albuminous Beverages 305 

Starchy Beverages 3 11 



CONTENTS xi 

CHAPTER PAGE 

Beverages (continued) 

Miscellaneous Beverages 315 

Tea 315, 318 

Coffee 316, 319 

Chocolate and Cocoa 317, 321, 322 

Special Non-Xutritive Beverages 323 

PART III 

DIETO-THERAPY 

FEEDING THE SICK— HOSPITAL DIETS— DIET IN 
DISEASE— DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

XII Feeding the Sick 329 

XIII Hospital Diets 340 

Fluid Diet 341 

Milk Diet 344 

Soft or Light Diet 344 

Lacto-Farinaceous Diet 347, 

Convalescent Diet 348* 

House Diet 352 

Diets to Meet Special Mechanical or Chemical 

Body Needs 355 

DIET IN DISEASE 

XIV The Fever Diet 358 

Typhoid Fever 364 

Scarlet Fever 374 

Whooping Cough 374 

Measles ' 375 

Influenza (Grippe) 375 

Throat Affections 2,76 

Acute Rheumatic Fever 376 

XV Diet in Disturbances of Metabolism and Acidosis 379 
Diabetes Mellitus 379 

£? ut . f 394 

Obesity 404 

Emaciation 411 

Acidosis 4 !7 

XVI Diet in Deficiency Diseases 419 

Pellagra 4IQ 

Scurvy 4I9 

XVII Diet in Diseases of the Lungs 421 

Tuberculosis 421 

Pneumonia 432 



Xll 



CONTENl^S 



CHAPTER PAGB 

Diet in Diseases of the Lungs (continued) 

Acute Bronchitis 434 

Chronic Bronchitis 434 

XVIII Diet in Diseases of the Circulation . . . .435 

High Blood Pressure 435 

Low Blood Pressure 439 

XIX Diet in Diseases of the Stomach 443 

Indigestion 443 

Gastric Hyperacidity 444 

Gastric Subacidity 445 

Chronic Gastritis 446 

Acute Gastritis 448 

Ulcer of the Stomach 449 

XX Diet in Intestinal Diseases and Food Poisoning . 467 

Acute Enteritis 467 

Chronic Enteritis 468 

Diarrhea 470 

Acute Colitis or Acute Dysentery 477 

Appendicitis 477 

Constipation 478 

Intestinal Auto-Intoxication 483 

Food Poisoning 490 

XXI Diet in Diseases of the Liver 493 

Jaundice 493 

Cirrhosis of the Liver 496 

Gall-Stones 498 

XXII Diet in Diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs 503 

Nephritis 503 

Albuminuria 504 

Chronic Nephritis 504 

Chronic Interstitial Nephritis 506 

Kidney Stones 507 

High Blood Pressure 507 

XXIII Diet in Diseases of the Nervous System . . .524 

Neuritis 5 2 4 

Neurasthenia 5 2 4 

Epilepsy 536 

Insomnia 53° 

XXIV Diet in Diseases cf the Skin 537 

Eczema 539 

Acne Rosacea 540 

Acne Vulgaris 540 

Psoriasis 540 

Urticaria 544 

Furunculosis-Boils 544 



CONTENTS xiii 

CHAPTER PAGE 

XXV Diet in Diseases of the Blood 546 

Anemia 546 

XXVI Diet in Diseases of the Endocrine System . . 554 

Goitre 554 

XXVII Dietetic Management of Surgical Cases . . . 558 

DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

XXVIII Motherhood 569 

XXIX Infant Feeding 573 

XXX The Feeding of Young Children 593 

XXXI Diet for Old Age 607 

Index to Recipes 611 

General Index 629 



PART I 

PRINCIPLES OF NUTRITION AND FOOD 
PREPARATIONS 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

CHAPTER I 

FOOD 

Functions of Food 

The human body may be compared to a machine which is 
capable of transforming energy supplied in the form of fuel 
into other forms of energy, i.e., muscular work and heat. As 
the automobile engine burns gasoline for fuel so the human 
engine burns food. 

Any machine in use is constantly wearing out, requiring 
the renewal of parts. In the body material for building new 
tissue and repairing worn out tissue is furnished by food. 

Abundance of fuel and new parts are not all that is neces- 
sary for the running of an engine. Without the proper lubri- 
cants the machine can not work. Oil serves this purpose for 
the automobile. The lubricants which insure the smooth 
working of all parts of the human engine, which "regulate 
the body processes", are supplied by food. 

Thus the chief functions of food are : 

(i) to yield energy, 

(2) to build body substance, 

(3) to regulate body processes. 

Definition of Food. — Foods are substances which when 
taken into the body supply the necessary elements for pro- 
moting its growth and replacing its waste, yield energy for 
muscular work and heat and regulate the body processes. 

3 






4 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

CLASSIFICATION OF FOOD 

A. According to function 

i. Fuel foods or sources of energy 

a. Carbohydrates 

i. Sugars 
ii. Starches 

b. Fats 

c. Proteins 

2. Body builders or tissue formers 

a. Proteins 

b. Mineral salts 

c. Water 

3. Regulators of body processes 

a. Mineral salts 

b. Water 

c. Vitamines 

B. According to source 

1. Animal 

2. Vegetable 

3. Mineral 

C. According to chemical composition 1 

1. Organic 

a. Nitrogenous 

i. Proteins 

b. Non-nitrogenous 

i. Carbohydrates 
ii. Fats 

c. Organic salts 

2. Inorganic 

a. Mineral salts 

b. Water 

Carbohydrates 

Definition. — Carbohydrates are foodstuffs which contain 
carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. The hydrogen and oxygen are 
usually present in the same proportions as in the water mole- 

1 The chemical composition of vitamines is still uncertain, hence they are not 
included in this classification. 



CLASSIFICATION OF FOOD 



cule, (H 2 0). These compounds have therefore been named 
carbo-hydrates. The term "carbohydrates" covers all sim- 
ple sugars and all substances which can be converted into 
simple sugars by hydrolysis. 

Source. — Carbohydrates come from the vegetable kingdom 
almost entirely. There are a few exceptions such as glyco- 
gen and milk sugar. They form the chief constituent of 
roots, tubers and seeds. Important sources of carbohydrates 
for human use are cereals, potatoes, rice, tapioca, sago, sugar 
(cane, beet and maple), honey and sweet fruits. 

Classification. — Carbohydrates include the monosaccha- 
rides such as dextrose or grape sugar, the disaccharides like 
sucrose or cane sugar, and the polysaccharides such as starch, 
dextrin and glycogen. (Glycogen is sometimes called animal 
starch.) 

The term "monosaccharide" means that the sugar molecule 
contains only one sugar group or molecule. All such are 
called "simple sugars." The structure of the monosaccha- 
rides is represented by the formula, C 6 H 12 6 . The "disaccha- 
rides" are sugars which on hydrolysis by enzymes or by 
boiling with dilute acids split into two molecules of simple 
sugar. Their chemical formula is C ls H 2t ls and their rela- 
tion to the monosaccharides is shown thus : 

CH.A, + H 2 ^C 6 H 12 O + QH 12 O 

The "polysaccharides" are complex molecules which can be 
broken down into many molecules of simple sugar. Their 
formula is (C 6 H 10 O 5 )x. 



Carbohydrates 



Monosaccharides 

CAA 



Disaccharides 
C 12 H ;2 O n 



Polysaccharides 
(C 6 H 10 O 5 )x 



Grape Sugar (Dextrose or Glucose) 
Fruit Sugar (Levulose) 

(A mixture of dextrose and levulose is 

called Invert Sugar. Honey is the 

best example in nature) 
Galactose 



Cane suga 

Beet Sugar 

Maple Sug. 

I Milk Sugar 

[_ Malt Sugar 



;ar J 



Sucrose 

(Lactose) 
(Maltose) 




6 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Function. — Carbohydrates when burned in the body yield 
energy in the form of work or heat. Carbohydrate in excess 
of the body's immediate needs for fuel is stored as glycogen, 
chiefly in the liver but also in the muscles and other organs. 
The body's capacity to store glycogen is limited and if more 
carbohydrate is eaten the surplus may be changed into fat. 

Sugars 
Sugars are soluble carbohydrates with a more or less sweet 
taste. When heated to a high temperature they form cara- 
mel. Dietetics is especially concerned with grape sugar 
(glucose or dextrose), milk sugar (lactose) and cane sugar 
(sucrose). 

DEXTROSE (OR GLUCOSE ) 

Description. — Dextrose occurs in nature as a syrup. It 
is much less sweet than cane sugar. Other sugars have to be 
changed to this form before the body can use them. 

Source. — It is found throughout the vegetable kingdom, 
chiefly in fruit and plant juices. It is especially abundant 
in grapes of which it often constitutes 20 per cent or more 
of the weight of the fresh fruit and considerably more than 
half of the solid matter. Commercially it is made from 
starch by hydrolysis with acids. 

Use in the Diet. — Dextrose is a fuel food in a very readily 
absorbed form. Taken in large quantities it is liable to fer- 
ment or flood the system with sugar too rapidly but as nat- 
urally present in sweet fruits or in its artificial form in small 
quantities along with other foodstuffs it is a very economical 
source of energy. Being less sweet than cane sugar, when 
it is used to sweeten other foods a larger amount must be 
taken. 

LACTOSE 

Lactose (milk sugar) occurs in the milk of all mammals. 
It is less sweet and much less soluble than cane sugar and 
does not readily ferment. Because of its mild flavor and be- 



CARBOHYDRATES 7 

cause it is less irritating to the digestive tract than sucrose it 
is widely used in feeding infants and invalids, where it is 
a valuable source of fuel. 

SUCROSE 

Description. — Pure cane sugar is chemically the same as 
beet sugar. Maple sugar would not be different from ordi- 
nary sugar if it were sufficiently purified to remove the fla- 
voring matter. By boiling for a long time or in the presence 
of acids (whether naturally in the fruit or added to it) cane 
sugar is changed to invert sugar, which is a mixture of equal 
parts of dextrose and levulose. While dextrose is not as 
sweet as cane sugar, levulose is very much sweeter so that 
the mixture has a peculiar penetrating sweetness that is not 
as pleasing as the cane sugar flavor. 

Source. — Sucrose is found in the sap or juices of a variety 
of plants, the sugar cane, the sugar beet and the sugar maple 
being the most important sources commercially, but many 
common fruits and vegetables contain considerable amounts. 
Whether obtained by collecting sap or by crushing, it is al- 
ways at first a syrup and all solid sugar is made from these 
juices by evaporation and the process of refining. 

Use in the Diet. — Cane sugar constitutes a very important 
part of the dietary of most people for table use, also in con- 
fectionery and in combination with other foods in cooking. It 
is a valuable source of energy but must be used with dis- 
cretion because in too large amounts or in too concentrated a 
form it is irritating to the membrane of the stomach, is liable 
to ferment, and also because being quickly absorbed, it either 
satisfies the appetite before the need for food has been en- 
tirely met or blunts, it so that other foods become distasteful. 
Sweet fruits are better than pure sugar, especially for chil- 
dren, since fruits contain important mineral salts which are 
wholly lacking in sugar. 

Sugar should be avoided in gastric disorders and in dia- 
betes, and since it is a very concentrated food it should 
not be used in cases of obesity. 






8 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Substitute for Sugar. — Since sugar is used not only as a 
fuel food but as a condiment, attempts have been made to 
secure a substitute for use in cases where carbohydrate is 
limited or denied. The best known of these is "saccharin" 
or "sweetina", a crystalline coal tar product. It is many 
times sweeter than sugar but has no food value. 

Tests for Sugar. — A simple test for sugars, in general, 
consists of adding an equal volume of concentrated sodium- 
hydroxide solution to the suspected solution and boiling. A 
brown color indicates the presence of sugar. 

The chief test for dextrose is Fehling's. A test solution 
should be on hand and may be obtained at any apothecary's. 
It should be fresh. The test is based on the fact that dex- 
trose "reduces" salts of copper by depriving them of 
some of their oxygen and an insoluble oxide of copper is 
precipitated. To make the test, add to a portion of the test 
solution a few drops of the suspected solution in a test tube 
and boil. If a red precipitate forms dextrose is present. 
The sole use of this test for the nurse will probably be in 
connection with diabetes, when the nurse makes the test at 
the request of the physician. 

Starch and Other Polysaccharides 
Description. — Starch, unlike sugar, is insoluble but a por- 
tion may be made to pass into a soluble form by boiling in 
water, dry heating at high temperature or by certain diges- 
tive ferments. The first substances formed in the course of 
starch digestion are dextrins ; these can be split into the di- 
saccharide maltose which in turn will yield two molecules of 
dextrose. The polysaccharides which have nutritive value 
in the body are starch, dextrins and glycogen. 

In its pure state, i.e., when isolated from proteins, cellu- 
lose, gums, and so forth, starch is a shiny white powder 
having a distinctive quality to the touch. Under the micro- 
scope it is found to consist of granules which are insoluble in 
cold water ; on warming they absorb water and swell. Cook- 
ing in water ruptures the starch grains, rendering the con- 
tents more readily acted upon by the digestive juices. 



CARBOHYDRATES g 

Source. — Starch occurs widely in the vegetable kingdom. 
It is found in largest amount in seeds, roots, tubers, bulbs 
and sometimes in the stems and leaves of plants. It con- 
stitutes one-half to three-fourths of the solid matter of 
the ordinary cereal grains and at least three-fourths of the 
solids of mature potatoes. Commercial "starch" is ob- 
tained from wheat, corn, rice, potatoes and arrowroot. 

Other Polysaccharides. — Cellulose, the framework of 
plants, has no nutritive value, but because it is not digested 
in the human body it forms the major part of the ballast 
which is so necessary to a normal intestinal movement. It 
stimulates peristalsis by acting as a gentle mechanical irri- 
tant, by helping to retain moisture and to keep the feces soft, 
and by giving such bulk that the intestinal muscles can act to 
good advantage. Unless it is desirable for some special rea- 
son to relieve the digestive tract of all work a certain amount 
of cellulose should be included in the diet. In constipation 
the addition of an increased amount of cellulose in some non- 
irritating form, like agar-agar, has proved a successful thera- 
peutic measure. Much of our food as we eat it has had most 
of the cellulose naturally present removed in preparing it for 
the table. For this reason bran is frequently added to food 
by those having a tendency to sluggish intestinal movement. 
The same results can be secured by making the diet consist 
of a greater proportion of foods which contain large amounts 
of "roughage" or ballast, such as green vegetables, fruits 
and whole grain products. 

Gums have little or no nutritive value in the human body 
and like cellulose act as ballast. 

Principles of Cooking Starch. — The principles involved in 
the cooking of starch are of two types — chemical and me- 
chanical. 

Chemical Principles. — Since raw starch is digestible only 
to a slight degree, it is essential to good digestion that starchy 
foods be cooked. 

In the presence of moisture starch becomes semi-soluble 
at the temperature of boiling water, i.e., 212 degrees Fahren- 



io PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

heit. Gruels are made by cooking cereal flours in water at 
or near the boiling temperature for a long time. 

By dry heat, at a temperature of 300-400 degrees Fahren- 
heit, starch can be converted to dextrin. This principle is 
applied in making toast, a little dextrin forming on the out- 
side of the slice. A small portion of the starch is further 
changed to caramel, giving a characteristic flavor to the crust 
of bread, toast, etc. 

Mechanical Principles. — When foods composed largely of 
starch, such as flour, cornstarch, etc., are to be cooked with 
a liquid, care must be taken to prevent the formation of 
lumps, for these are not only unsightly but consist of an 
outer layer of cooked starch surrounding a center of un- 
changed material and preventing its being made digestible. 

There are three methods of avoiding lumps : 

1. By mixing the starch gradually with a small portion of 
cold water, so that a smooth paste is formed before 
adding the boiling liquid. This method is used in mak- 
ing gruels, etc. 

2. By mixing with fat before adding liquid. The melting 
fat separates the starch granules. At least as much 
fat as starch must be used. The liquid is preferably 
added cold and all at once. If added hot it must be 
stirred in very gradually. This method is employed 
in making gravies, sauces, etc. 

3. By mixing with sugar. The melting sugar serves to 
separate the starch grains. This is practicable only 
when the sugar is greater in amount than the starch 
and the liquid must be added gradually. This method 
is applied in the case of desserts, such as cornstarch 
pudding. 

When foods consisting of a mixture of starch and cellu- 
lose, as cereal breakfast foods, are to be cooked, it is neces- 
sary to soften and break up the cellulose to enable the diges- 
tive juices to reach the starch. This necessitates long cooking 
at a temperature near the boiling point. The longer such a 



FATS AND OILS n 

cereal food is cooked the easier of digestion it becomes. 
Hence it is an excellent rule to cook such foods for infants 
and others of feeble digestive powers twice as long as is 
commonly recommended. 

Reheating of starchy foods, therefore, tends to promote 
their ease of digestion. Zwieback (twice baked bread) is 
more readily digested than fresh bread. Moreover the tex- 
ture of hard, dry bread induces more thorough mastication 
than does the fresh, which is apt to be swallowed in soft, 
doughy lumps. 

Test for Starch. — Starch is colored blue by iodine. Hence 
it is easy to detect its presence in any food. To make the 
test a small portion of the material should be placed in a 
test tube, boiled with a little water, cooled and two or three 
drops of dilute tincture of iodine added. If starch is pres- 
ent the blue color will immediately appear. Dextrin gives 
a port wine color with iodine, so that if any of this substance 
be present the color is modified, becoming more or less 
purplish or purple-red. 

Fats and Oils 

Definition. — Fats are composed of carbon, hydrogen and 
oxygen, but the oxygen is present in smaller proportion than 
in carbohydrates. Fats were formerly spoken of as hydro- 
carbons but this term is now reserved for substances which 
contain no oxygen at all, such as benzene. 

Description. — True fats, whether solids or oils, are chemi- 
cal compounds of fatty acids with glycerol, called glycerides, 
and differ among themselves according to the particular 
glycerides they contain. Those commonly found in consid- 
erable amount in edible fats are the glycerides of stearic, 
palmitic and oleic acids. The stearates or combinations of 
stearic acid with glycerol (sometimes called stearin) are solid 
fats as are also palmitates or palmitin. The oleate or olein, 
on the other hand, is liquid at ordinary temperatures. But- 
ter, tallow, lard and other common fats are mixtures of 



12 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

glycerides. The softness of butter, oleomargarine, lard, etc., 
is largely due to the amount of olein which they contain. 
Suet and tallow owe their hardness largely to the amount of 
stearin present. Vegetable oils (olive, cottonseed, peanut, 
almond and cocoanut) contain large amounts of olein, as 
does also cod liver oil. Certain foods not usually thought of 
as fatty contain significant amounts of fats, for example, 
egg yolk, Indian corn and nearly all nuts. 

Lecithin. — Besides the true fats there are many fat-like 
substances, closely related to the fats both chemically and 
biologically, which occur widely in nature. One of the most 
important of these from the standpoint of nutrition is leci- 
thin which is found abundantly in egg yolk and also in brain 
and nerve tissue, blood, lymph, milk, many seeds and other 
plant and animal tissues. Besides glycerides of fatty acids 
it contains phosphorous. This is a necessary constituent of 
every living cell. 

Volatile Oils. — These have little in common with true oils. 
They vary much among themselves in composition but all 
tend to disappear by evaporation. They are characterized 
by their odors, tastes and pungency. A few of them are 
used as flavoring. The oil of bergamot is obtained from a 
variety of orange, the oil of lemon from lemon peel, etc. 
Cooking tends to volatilize them, so that such flavoring 
should be added at the last moment. 

Source of Fats. — The chief sources of fats in the diet are 
milk (yielding cream and butter), olive oil and other vege- 
table oils, meat fats (especially lard, bacon, salt pork, beef 
suet and drippings), and nuts. 

Less Expensive Forms of Fats. — There are less expensive 
forms of fats than butter, olive oil and lard. Among them 
are oleomargarine and the various margarines made from 
vegetable fats, such as cocoanut, cottonseed and corn oils. 
Because they are less expensive they are used as substitutes 
for the more expensive fats. Oleomargarine is made of beef 
fat churned with milk. Cottonseed, cocoanut and palm nut 
oils are also used in the manufacture of butter substitutes. 



FATS AND OILS 13 

Combinations of cottonseed oil and beef fat are made into 
fats similar in appearance and use to lard. The oils of corn, 
cottonseed, peanut and certain other seeds are now commonly 
used in place of olive oil. 

Oleomargarine and the other butter substitutes have prac- 
tically the same fuel value as butter. Olive oil, cottonseed 
and corn oils and lard are 100 per cent, fat and yield equal 
amounts of energy. Butter, however, and to a less extent 
beef fat, contain fat-soluble vitamine, a growth-promoting 
substance not found in lard, olive oil or any vegetable fat 
or oil to any appreciable extent. Milk, tgg yolk and green 
vegetables are rich sources of fat-soluble vitamine and when 
they are included in the diet in liberal amounts substitutes 
for butter may be safely used. Otherwise there is a danger 
of deficiency in this vitamine. 

Note: See discussion on Vitamines, page 21. 

Function. — Fats are the most concentrated kind of fuel, 
furnishing two and one-fourth times as much energy as the 
same weight of carbohydrate or protein. Excess of any of 
the organic foodstuffs may be stored as reserve fuel in the 
form of body fat. Its most important function is to serve 
as an energy supply, but fat also serves as a protection to 
the body from mechanical injury and from too rapid loss of 
heat when exposed to cold as well as a packing and support 
to the visceral organs, particularly the kidneys. 

Digestibility. — Fat tends to check the secretion of gastric 
juice and to retard the motility of the stomach, thereby re- 
tarding the rate of digestion. The softer fats and emulsified 
fats are digested more easily than those that are harder. 
Heating fats to too high a temperature in cooking may de- 
compose them and produce substances irritating to the mem- 
brane of the stomach. Also foods fried in fat are coated 
with and possibly permeated by it and are thus more slowly 
digested. 

Tests for Fats. — Fats are readily tested with paper — if 
they are present in a given substance a permanent grease spot 
appears. If to a suspected substance a little sodium hvdrox- 



14 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

ide solution is added a white precipitate forms, which is a 
hard sodium soap. 

Proteins 

Chemical Nature. — Proteins are organic foodstuffs, com- 
pounds of the elements carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, 
sometimes sulphur and sometimes phosphorus or both. Car- 
bohydrates and fats contain carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. 
Proteins, however, are the only source of organic nitrogen, 
which is an essential constituent of both animal and plant 
cells. 

Proteins are made up of simpler substances containing ni- 
trogen, called amino acids. They bear the same relation to 
proteins that dextrose does to starch, that is, amino acids are 
the last step in the breaking down of the protein molecule 
through digestion, but whereas all the molecules of dextrose 
which starch yields on hydrolysis are alike, one protein mole- 
cule may yield from 12 to 17 different amino- acids. 

Source. — Proteins are an important part of muscle tissue 
and of both animal and plant protoplasm. Plants can build 
their own proteins from inorganic materials which they de- 
rive from the soil and the air, but animals are unable to syn- 
thesize their body proteins directly from inorganic sub- 
stances and must get them from the proteins in their food. 

Man secures his proteins from two sources, animal and 
vegetable foods. Meat, fish, eggs and milk furnish large 
amounts of animal proteins. Egg proteins are found in both 
the whites and the yolks. Milk has two very important pro- 
teins, casein and lactalbumin. Animal foods are in general 
richer in proteins than vegetable foods. The only foods of 
plant origin which can compare with animal foods in this re- 
spect are the legumes (peas, beans, lentils, peanuts, etc.), 
and certain nuts, such as almonds and pine nuts. 

Classification. — Proteins are usually classified as simple 
proteins, conjugated proteins and derived proteins. Some 
examples of proteins of each group are given below and the 
reader is referred to Sherman's "Chemistry of Food and Nu- 



PROTEINS 15 

trition," Second Edition, pages 51-54, for the complete clas- 
sification. 

1. Simple Proteins. 

a. Albumins. Examples: egg albumin (egg white), 
lactalbumin (milk), serum albumin (blood). 

b. Globulins. Examples : muscle globulin, serum 
globulin (blood), edestin (wheat, hemp seed and 
other seeds), legumin (beans and peas). 

c. Albuminoids. Examples : collagen of connective 
tissue. 

2. Conjugated Proteins. 

a. Nucleoproteins. Examples : proteins of glandu- 
lar organs, such as sweetbreads. 

b. Phosphoproteins. Examples: casein (milk), 
ovovitellin (egg yolk). 

c. Hemoglobins. Examples : hemoglobin of blood. 

3. Derived Proteins. 

a. Metaproteins. Examples : acid proteins, alkali 
proteins, albuminates. 

b. Proteoses. 

c. Peptones. 

Nitrogenous Extractives. — Not all the nitrogen present in 
food is in the form of proteins. Substances found in mus- 
cle juice, consisting chiefly of creatin, creatinin and purins 
(uric acid and related substances), have little if any fuel 
value and are useful only as stimulants. They give to meats 
their characteristic flavor, hence are appetizing and stim- 
ulate the flow of gastric juice. For this reason extracts of 
meat, such as beef tea, beef juice and soups made from 
meat stock are valuable in feeding the sick. 

Functions. — Proteins have two functions : ( 1 ) to yield 
energy, and (2) to build or repair tissue. The body is con- 
stantly losing nitrogen as a waste product from the metabol- 
ism of the cells and from the wear and tear of the cell struc- 
ture. The nitrogen to make up for this loss must be supplied 
by protein foods. 



16 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Differences in Value in Nutrition. — There are marked dif- 
ferences in the value of the different proteins in respect to 
their ability to form body substance and these variations are 
due to the amino acids which they contain. Experiments 
with animals, in which the diet contained only one protein, 
show that gliadin (one of the proteins of wheat) will main- 
tain a full grown animal in body weight but will not promote 
growth in the young, while zein (one of the proteins of the 
corn kernel) is inadequate for either maintenance or growth. 
Gliadin lacks lysine, an amino acid essential to growth, but 
it is sufficient for maintenance because it contains the amino 
acid tryptophane. Zein lacks both lysine and tryptophane. 
Casein and lactalbumin (milk), ovalbumin and ovovitellin 
(eggs) and edestin (grains) are examples of what are called 
"complete proteins" because they contain all the amino acids 
necessary for both maintenance and growth. Proteins capa- 
ble of maintaining life but not of promoting normal growth 
are termed "partially incomplete". Gliadin is one of these. 
"Incomplete proteins" are those incapable of maintaining 
life or promoting growth. Zein and gelatin are examples 
of this class. 

The amino acids lacking in certain proteins are supplied 
by a mixed diet containing more than one kind of protein, 
and in the case of certain grains such as corn the deficiency 
in one kind is corrected more or less by the other proteins of 
the whole grain. For example, glutelin, another protein of the 
corn kernel, which is "complete", supplies the tryptophane 
and lysine lacking in zein. In order to be certain that the 
diet contains an adequate supply of complete proteins the 
liberal use of milk, eggs and vegetables is important espe- 
cially for growing children and invalids. 

Cooking of Protein. — Care is necessary in the cooking of 
proteins in order to prevent toughening and to make them 
easy of digestion. The following experiment with egg al- 
bumin, which is one of the most familiar proteins, illustrates 
some of the properties of proteins in general. 

Effect of Temperature on Protein. — Put some white of egg 



MINERAL MATTER ly 

into a test tube, place in a sauce pan of cold water, heat 
gradually and observe all changes. 

I. Raw egg white is a sticky, clear, pale straw-colored 
liquid and is readily digested. 
■2. When the water reaches the temperature of 134 F. 
white streaks will be seen in a semi-solid substance. 
It is still easily digested. 

3. When the water reaches the temperature of 150 to 
160 3 F. the egg white will be soft and jelly-like in con- 
sistency and is readily digested. 

4. When the water reaches 212 F. the egg white will be 
tough white jelly and less readily digested. 

5. When egg white is heated to 300 3 F. or higher (for 
example by putting the test tube directly over the 
flame), it will almost immediately become hard and 
tough. 

These tests show that some proteins are hardened and 
toughened by high temperature and are most tender and 
readily digested when cooked at a low temperature. 

Mineral Matter 

Amount and Kind in the Body. — The mineral matter in 
the body amounts to about 5 or 6 per cent by weight, occur- 
ring chiefly in the bones but also in the tissues and in blood 
and other body fluids. 

The body is composed of the elements oxygen, carbon, 
hydrogen, nitrogen, calcium, phosphorus, potassium, sulphur, 
sodium, chlorine, magnesium and iron, with minute traces of 
iodine, fluorine and silicon. Of these oxygen, carbon, hydro- 
gen, nitrogen, sulphur and some phosphorus exist in the body 
in proteins. Phosphorus is also combined with calcium in the 
form of calcium phosphate which is the chief mineral consti- 
tuent of bone. Magnesium also occurs in bone. Calcium and 
magnesium and some phosphorus are found in muscle tissue. 
The blood and other body fluids contain calcium, sodium, 
chlorine (chiefly as sodium chloride), magnesium, phospho- 



18 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

rus and potassium. Blood is especially rich in iron, which is 
found in the hemoglobin of the red corpuscles. 

Occurrence in Food. — All the elements which enter into 
the structure of the body must be furnished by the food. 
Carbon, hydrogen and oxygen are supplied by the proteins, 
fats and carbohydrates ; nitrogen and sulphur by the pro- 
teins. Phosphorus is combined with some proteins (phos- 
pho-proteins), some fats (phosphorized fats) and some car- 
bohydrates, and it also occurs in inorganic form, for the 
most part as calcium phosphate. Among the phosphorus- 
rich foods are milk, egg yolk, legumes, whole grain cereals, 
fruits, vegetables and lean meat. 

Foods rich in calcium are milk (by far the best source, 
both because it is the richest in calcium of any of the com- 
mon foods and because of the ease with which its calcium is 
assimilated), cheese, whole grains, legumes, vegetables, 
fruits and molasses. 

Egg yolk and spinach are especially good sources of iron 
but green vegetables in general, legumes, whole grain pro- 
ducts and fruits are fairly rich sources. Milk contains iron 
in rather small amount but in a form very easy to digest and 
assimilate. Lean meat is richer in iron but in a form less 
available to the body. 

Sodium and chlorine, as sodium chloride or common salt, 
are added to food as seasoning in such quantities that the 
needs of the body for these elements are amply met. 

Potassium and magnesium are so widely distributed in 
foods and such small amounts are needed by the body that 
they are adequately supplied by a mixed diet. 

Calcium, iron and phosphorus are of such importance in 
nutrition and, calcium and iron especially, so often inade- 
quately supplied by the diet, that they demand special atten- 
tion to insure inclusion in the diet of sufficiently large 
amounts of foods rich in these three elements. Milk, vege- 
tables, eggs and fruits, if used liberally, will furnish enough 
of these mineral constituents to meet the body's requirement. 



WATER 19 

Functions. — Mineral matter functions in the body in the 
following ways i 1 

1. As a constituent of the bones, giving rigidity and rela- 
tive permanence to the skeletal tissues. 

2. As essential elements in the structure of the soft tis- 
sues (muscles, blood cells, etc.) 

3. As soluble salts held in solution in the fluids of the 
body, giving these fluids their characteristic influence 
upon the elasticity and irritability of muscle and 
nerve, supplying the materials for the acidity or alka- 
linity of the digestive juices and other secretions, and 
yet maintaining the neutrality or slight alkalinity of 
the internal fluids as well as their osmotic pressure 
and solvent power. 

Water 

Composition and Properties. — Water is composed of the 
elements hydrogen and oxygen, two parts of hydrogen to one 
of oxygen. Its chemical formula is written H 2 0. Abso- 
lutely pure water is. colorless, odorless and tasteless, but such 
water is not found in nature owing to its great solvent 
power, which causes it to dissolve substances with which it 
comes in contact. Water ordinarily therefore contains vary- 
ing quantities of mineral and organic matter, including gases. 
To these substances in solution the characteristic flavor is 
due. Water from which the air has been expelled by boiling 
or long standing in a warm place has a "flat" taste. 

Water freezes at 32 F. On heating, the ice melts and 
we may have ice water with a temperature of 32 F. When 
this water is warmed the air dissolved in it begins to expand 
and tiny bubbles appear, forming first on the sides of the 
vessel and tending to rise to the surface. If the water there 
is not yet warmed they contract but finally when the water 
is warm throughout come to the surface and escape. After 
the air is thus expelled, if heating is continued steam bubbles 

, 1 Quoted from Sherman, "Chemistry of Food and Nutrition," Second Edi- 
tion, page 236. 



20 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

form in a similar manner. At 185 F. water bubbles below 
the surface, or simmers. When the bubbles reach the sur- 
face and break, giving off a cloud of steam, the boiling point, 
212 F., has been reached. Except under pressure water 
can then become no hotter. Fast boiling simply means rapid 
evaporation and waste of fuel. 

Water Content of Foods. — The water content of foods 
varies widely. In green vegetables it constitutes from 85 to 
95 per cent, of the whole substnce ; in potatoes and some 
other starchy vegetables it is present in as large amount as 
75 per cent. Even in seemingly dry foods like crackers there 
may be as much as from 5 to 10 per cent. But since the body 
itself contains a large amount of water and the water loss 
through the lungs, skin, kidneys, etc., is so great, water must 
be taken in addition to that contained in food. Under or- 
dinary circumstances about 3 to 4 pints daily are necessary. 
The quantity of water excreted per day varies with atmos- 
pheric conditions and the amount of exercise, increasing with 
hot weather and violent exercise and decreasing in the bed- 
ridden and sedentary. Babies and delirious patients should 
be fed water as carefully as food. The liberal drinking of 
water with meals facilitates digestion, provided that it 
is not too cold and that it is not used to wash down food. 

Functions. — Water serves the following important pur- 
poses in the body : 

1. It is an essential constituent of the tissue cells and of 
all body fluids, such as blood, lymph and the digestive 
juices. 

2. It dissolves nutritive materials in the course of diges- 
tion, making possible their absorption into the blood 
and lymph. 

3. It furnishes a medium for the transportation of food 
to various parts of the body and for the removal of 
waste. 

4. It keeps the various mucous membranes of the body 
soft and prevents friction of their surfaces. 

5. It aids in regulating body temperature. 



VITAMJNES 21 

Vitamines 

There are three substances or groups of substances, not 
yet chemically identified, which are necessary to normal 
growth and maintenance. A diet may be adequate in amount 
and kind of fuel, protein, mineral constituents and water and 
still fail to promote normal growth or maintain an animal in 
health if one or all of these substances is lacking. They are 
variously known as vitamines, accessory food substances, 
and food hormones. 

One of them is soluble in fat and is found naturally in 
such fats as butter, cod liver oil, fat of egg yolk and of gland- 
ular organs such as the liver, but is not found in lard or in 
olive oil or any other fat or oil of vegetable origin to any ap- 
preciable extent. It is however found in the leaves of plants. 
The absence of this vitamine in the diets of growing animals 
results in retarded growth which is resumed when a food 
containing this growth-promoting fat is added. Full grown 
animals do not show a lack of the fat-soluble vitamine as 
quickly as do growing animals but eventually they give evi- 
dence of impaired health and nutrition, which disappears on 
the addition of this essential food factor. The best sources 
of fat-soluble vitamine are whole milk, butter, cod liver oil, 
egg yolk and the leafy vegetables. The ordinary temperatures 
used in cooking weaken but do not destroy this vitamine. 

The second vitamine is soluble in water and insoluble in 
fat. Lack of it causes a disease known as beriberi which 
manifests itself as a degeneration of the nerves and which 
occurs among people living too largely on a diet of polished 
rice or refined foods. It can be prevented or cured by using 
unpolished rice instead of polished or white rice or by add- 
ing to the diet beans, peas, peanuts or whole grains. The 
water-soluble vitamine is more widely distributed in natural 
foods than the fat-soluble and there is much less danger of a 
deficiency in this respect than of the fat-soluble vitamine, 
provided that the food is not too highly refined. 

Foods rich in this substance are yeast, vegetables, legumes, 



22 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

whole grains, fruits, egg yolk and milk. Nearly all vege- 
tables contain some of this vitamine. There is little danger 
of destroying this vitamine with the usual cooking tempera- 
tures if the use of alkalies is avoided but there is danger of 
its partial or complete destruction in commercial canning or 
other high pressure cooking. 

The third vitamine gives to certain foods their 

Antiscorbutic Property 

The occurrence of scurvy has been found to be coincident 
with a diet consisting largely of dried and cooked foods. It 
is cured by the use of fresh foods, such as oranges, lemons, 
limes, potatoes, cabbage and tomatoes in particular, and 
fresh fruits and vegetables in general. Cooked and canned 
fruits do not appear to have lost much of their "antiscorbutic 
property", but the ordinary cooking of vegetables has vari- 
able results, usually resulting in some loss and sometimes in 
complete loss. Potatoes and tomatoes stand heating very- 
well. The heating of milk injures the antiscorbutic prop- 
erty and the use of pasteurized or boiled milk or proprietary 
foods in feeding infants frequently results in the develop- 
ment of infantile scurvy unless fresh raw milk is substituted 
or fresh fruit or vegetable juice is added to the diet. Orange 
juice is the most common antiscorbutic but tomato juice has 
been successfully used as a chief substitute, even with very 
young children. Recent work has been reported (Hess) 
which seems to show that dried milk may have an anti- 
scorbutic value under certain conditions, i.e., provided that 
it was rich in antiscorbutic vitamine before drying, was 
dried quickly under proper conditions and packed in air- 
tight containers. 

The animal body can not manufacture vitamines ; it can 
only gather them from its food. If the diet is deficient in 
any one of these necessary substances satisfactory nutrition 
is impossible. 



FOOD ACCESSORIES OR ADJUNCTS 23 

The Essentials of an Adequate Diet 

The Essentials of an Adequate Diet may be summarized as : 

1. Sufficient material to yield the necessary energy. 

2. Sufficient protein of the kind best suited to growth 
and maintenance. 

3. Adequate amounts of ash constituents in the proper 
proportions. 

4.' An adequate supply of vitamines. 

A Complete Food: 

1. A complete food must contain all the nutritive ele- 
ments of the body — proteins, carbohydrates, fats, min- 
eral matter, water and vitamines. 

2. It must contain these in their proper proportions. 

3. It must contain in a moderate compass the total amount 
required daily. 

4. The nutritive elements must be capable of absorption 
and yet leave a certain bulk of unabsorbed matter to 
act as intestinal ballast. It must be obtainable at a 
moderate cost. — Hutchinson. 

A Mixed Diet therefore is necessary as no one food ful- 
fills all the requirements of a "complete food." A mixed diet 
must be taken whereby one food may be used to supplement 
what is lacking in another. The foods best for health are 
those best fitted to the needs of the individual. The cheap- 
est food is that which furnishes the largest amount of nutri- 
ment at the least cost. The best food is that which is both 
most healthful and cheapest. 

Dietetics is the application of the science of nutrition to the 
feeding of individuals of different ages, under different cir- 
cumstances, in health and disease. 

FOOD ACCESSORIES OR ADJUNCTS 

CONDIMENTS BEVERAGES 

Definition. — Food accessories or food adjuncts are sub- 
stances which although they have no nutritive value are 



24 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

extensively used in the dietary to give flavor to foods, to in- 
crease the appetite and to furnish pleasing variety. Under 
the term are included condiments and beverages. 

Condiments 

If we consider appetizing substances of all kinds the 
number of condiments is very large. It includes the great 
variety of sauces, spices used in cooking (ginger, cinnamon, 
nutmeg and cloves), flavoring extracts (vanilla, oil of lemon, 
etc.), mustard, horseradish, pepper, salt and vinegar. Of 
these salt, strictly speaking, is a food. When it is used in 
excess of body needs simply to modify the flavor of food it 
is properly classed as a condiment. 

The taste for condiments is largely an artificial one and 
their use should be limited. In moderation, for the sake of 
variety, or when the appetite is feeble, their addition to the 
diet is legitimate. They should be withheld (with the excep- 
tion of salt) from the food of children because they destroy 
the appetite for milder foods and because they are irritating 
to the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal. For the 
same reason they should also be given with caution to in- 
valids, especially those suffering from any inflammation of 
the digestive tract. 

Beverages 

These food accessories include tea, coffee, alcoholic drinks, 
lemonade and other acid drinks, aerated and carbonated 
drinks. Such beverages are useful, not because of their nu- 
tritive value for they have little or none, but because of 
their stimulating or thirst quenching qualities and their at- 
tractive flavor. 

Milk, cocoa and chocolate though taken as beverages with 
meals are really foods, since they contain protein, fat, car- 
bohydrate and animal matter. 



CLASSIFICATION OF FOOD MATERIALS 25 

CLASSIFICATION OF FOOD MATERIALS ACCORDING TO CHEMICAL 
COMPOSITION 



Foods rich 
proteins 



Meat (especially lean meat) 

Poultry and game 

Fish 

Eggs 

Milk and cheese 

Dried beans, peas and lentils 

Cereals (corn, wheat, rye, oats, 

Nuts 

Gelatin 



etc.) 



Foods rich in 
carbohydrates 



Wheat and wheat products (bread, cake, 
crackers, pastry, macaroni, spaghetti, 
etc.) 

Corn and corn products (cornmeal, corn- 
starch, etc.) 

Rice 

Potatoes (white and sweet) 

Fresh fruits (grapes, oranges, pine- 
apples, bananas, apples, etc.) 

Dried fruits (dates, raisins, prunes, 
currants, figs, apples, apricots, etc.) 

Sugar (cane, beet and maple) and sugar 
products (jellies, preserves, marma- 
lade, candy) 

Honey 



Foods rich in 
fats 



Olive oil, cotton seed oil, peanut oil, 

corn oil, almond oil 
Butter, cream and cheese 
Eggs (yolks) 

Pork (including bacon and ham) 
Salmon (and all fatty fish) 
Nuts 

Chocolate 
Cocoanut 



Foods rich in Nitrogen and 

mineral matter Sulphur 



Proteins (meat, eggs, milk, etc.) 



Carbon, Hydrogen 
and Oxygen 



Proteins, fats and carbohydrates 



Phosphorus 



Eggs (yolks) 

Milk 

Meat 

Fish 

Dried beans and peas 

Whole grain cereals (oatmeal, cornmeal, 

whole wheat, etc.) 
Nearly all vegetables and fruits 



26 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



Calcium Milk and cheese 

Whole grain cereals 

Dried beans and peas 

Eggs (yolks) 

Molasses 

Vegetables 

Fruits 



Iron Eggs (yolks) 

Green vegetables (spinach, asparagus, 

beet greens, peas, etc.) 
Potatoes 

Dried beans and peas 
Lean meat 
Oatmeal 

Whole wheat bread 
Whole wheat flour 
Dates 
Prunes 
Figs 
Raisins 



Potassium Associated with other mineral salts in 

Magnesium food and amounts needed by the 

Iodine body will be furnished by the above 

list 



Sodium and Table salt (NaCl) 

Chlorine 



Foods rich in Fat-soluble Sea food 

vitamines 1 Vitamine "A" Butter 



Milk and cream 

Cod liver oil 

Eggs (yolks) 

Leafy vegetables (spinach, cabbage, etc.) 

Carrots 

Liver and kidney (beef and pig) 

Water-soluble Yeast 

Vitamine "B" Eggs (yolks) 

Whole grain cereals 
Dried beans and peas 
Vegetables (spinach, cabbage, potatoes, 
celery, carrots, onions, parsnips, 
turnips, tomatoes, etc.) 
Fruits oranges, lemons, grapefruit, etc.) 
Nuts 
Milk 

Antiscorbutic Oranges 

Vitamine "C" Tomatoes (fresh, canned or dried) 

Cabbage 
Lettuce 
Green peas 
Potatoes 
Spinach 

1 This list does not include all known sources but only those foods which 
are especially rich in vitamines. 



QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 27 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 

1. What are the functions of food? Name the sources of food. 

2. Classify the foodstuffs according to function. Which foodstuffs 
yield energy in the body? Which may contribute to the forma- 
tion of body fat'? 

3. Classify the foodstuffs according to chemical composition. 

4. Define carbohydrates. How do they differ in composition from 
fats? From proteins? 

5. Name five typical foods rich in carbohydrates. 

6. Classify carbohydrates giving examples of each class. 

7. Under what conditions has lactose an advantage over cane sugar 
and glucose in the dietary? 

8. What are the principles to be followed in cooking starch? 

9. Name five typical fat-rich foods. 

10. What can you say of the fuel value of butter substitutes, and 
safety in using them? 

11. Give three examples of animal proteins; three examples of 
vegetable proteins. 

12. Discuss the differences in value of different kinds of proteins in 
nutrition. Name two complete proteins. 

13. What are nitrogenous extractives? Of what use in the diet 
are they? 

14. What are the functions of mineral matter in nutrition? 

15. Give the composition of the body. 

16. Give the composition of food. 

17. Where in the body is calcium found? Phosphorus? Iron? 

18. Name three foods rich in calcium ; three rich in phosphorus ; three 
rich in iron. 

19. What part do vitamines play in nutrition? 

20. Name three important sources of the fat-soluble vitamine. Name 
three important sources of the water-soluble vitamine. Name 
three important sources of the antiscorbutic vitamine. 

21. Define the term food accessories. 

22. Of what use are condiments in the dietary? 

23. Define dietetics. 



CHAPTER II 
NUTRITION 

DIGESTION ABSORPTION METABOLISM 

Under this term is usually understood the digestion and 
absorption of nourishment, its assimilation and utilization, 
its storage in excess, and finally the elimination of the 
products of wear and tear, of combustion, and of nutriment 
or waste which cannot be utilized. Those processes of nutri- 
tion which occur after absorption are now included in the 
term metabolism. To restate this in a simple form (adapted 
from Thompson) nutrition involves: 

1. The secretion of digestive fluids and their action upon 
food in the alimentary canal — in other words, digestion. 

2. The passage of the ingredients of the digested food into 
the blood vessels and lymphathic vessels — absorption. 

3. The utilization of the absorbed nutrition products by 
the cells — assimilation or upward metabolism. 

4. The elimination of waste material — disassimilation or 
downward metabolism. 

The subjects of digestion and absorption will be treated in 
detail for each food principle and then summarized at the 
end of each topic. 

Digestion 

Digestion of Proteins 

Digestion in the Stomach. — Protein is not chemically al- 
tered in the mouth. The process of chewing simply moist- 
ens and divides it into small particles so that it is easily 
swallowed and more readily attacked by the secretion of the 

28 



DIGESTION 29 

stomach. Passing down the oesophagus, through the cardiac 
sphincter guarding the entrance to the stomach, it enters that 
portion of the latter organ called the fundus. Here it rests 
quietly for some time. It is not immediately mixed 
with gastric juice as formerly taught but the outer portions 
of the mass are successively attacked and dissolved. These 
soft portions are then pressed into the intermediate and 
pyloric regions of the stomach and subjected to a thorough 
mixing. 

The gastric juice is an acid fluid which may be secreted in 
large quantities — as much as one or two gallons in 24 hours. 
Its acidity is due to the presence of about 0.2 per cent, to 0.4 
per cent, of hydrochloric acid. This of itself is capable of 
causing proteins to swell and to some extent dissolve, of 
hydrolyzing the collagen of connective tissue, of decalcifying 
bone, and of preventing bacterial action. 

The gastric juice contains two enzymes which act on pro- 
tein, pepsin and rennin. Pepsin can act only in the presence 
of a definite percentage of hydrochloric acid, while rennin 
acts in a neutral solution. The relations of rennin and pep- 
sin are not yet very clearly understood. The function of 
rennin is to curdle milk, which causes it to remain in the 
stomach long enough to be partially digested by the pepsin. 

Action of Pepsin. — The protein of the diet, more or less 
swollen, softened and dissolved by the action of hydrochloric 
acid, is changed chemically by pepsin into a series of in- 
creasingly simpler and more soluble products, namely, acid 
proteins, proteoses (often called albumoses) and peptones. 
The change to peptones is not complete, but these three 
products of peptic digestion tend to pass together into the 
intestine when the pyloric sphincter which guards the en- 
trance to the duodenum opens to let them pass. The opening 
and closing of this sphincter is controlled by two factors : 

1. The consistency of the partly digested food, solid 
particles tending to keep the pylorus closed. 



30 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

2. The presence of free hydrochloric acid in the stomach 
contents. This is the more important factor. 

Protein is capable of absorbing and uniting chemically with 
a certain amount of acid. When it is so saturated, free acid 
will be present, having now nothing with which to combine, 
and this free acid is the stimulus which causes the pyloric 
sphincter to relax and lets a little spurt of food into the 
duodenum. Once in the duodenum, this same acid acts as 
the stimulus to close the pylorus and no more food enters the 
duodenum until the first portion has been neutralized. 

A clear understanding of the way in which the pyloric 
sphincter is regulated throws considerable light on stomach 
digestion. We can understand why a certain quantity of in- 
digestible residue, such as is present in most of our staple 
foods — meats, vegetables, fruits, etc. — is of service in re- 
taining food within the stomach for a time, giving the hydro- 
chloric acid a chance to exercise its bactericidal power and 
favoring thorough gastric digestion. It also explains why a 
meal of "bolted" food or of food imperfectly masticated 
through absence of teeth, or a lack of free hydrochloric 
acid in the stomach contents, as in hypoacidity or achyb'a 
gastrica, may set up such a continuous state of pyloric con- 
traction that the stomach remains unemptied for a long 
period, with a good prospect of fermentation and gas pro- 
duction, of relief by vomiting, or of an attack of acute in- 
digestion, biliousness or diarrhoea. The nurse will under- 
stand why a diet of "liquids" for a person in relatively 
good health does not prove satisfactory. Liquids do not stay 
long enough in the stomach to give a sense of fullness, give 
the stomach little to do and tend to pass into the intestines 
poorly prepared for the action of the digestive juices there. 

Digestion in the Intestines. — On entering the duodenum 
the acid chyme from the stomach meets three secretions, all 
alkaline in reaction, namely, the pancreatic juice, the bile 
and the intestinal juice. 

The hydrochloric acid of the stomach is indirectly respon- 
sible for the flow of the pancreatic juice, for this begins only 



DIGESTION 



3i 



after acid food has entered the duodenum. The pancreatic 
juice contains an enzyme capable of digesting protein only 
after it has come into contact with the intestinal juice. This 
enzyme is then called trypsin, and the changes which it pro- 
duces in protein are similar to those produced by pepsin. It 
acts, however, in an alkaline medium. 

The products of tryptic digestion are therefore alkali pro- 
teins, proteoses (albumoses) and peptones. 

The bile plays no significant part in protein digestion, ex- 
cept as it helps to neutralize the chyme. 

The intestinal juice contains an enzyme called erepsin, 
which completes the digestion of protein, breaking down the 
proteoses and peptones formed by pepsin and trypsin into 
still less complex compounds called amino acids. These are 
the "end-products" of protein digestion. The digestive 
process can go no further. There are no enzymes acting on 
proteins in the large intestines. 

Summary. — The chemical changes in proteins during the 
process of digestion are shown in the following table : 



PART OF 

ALIMENTARY 

TRACT 


NAME 

OF 

SECRETION 


ENZYMES 

ACTING ON 

PROTEIN 


• PRODUCTS OF 
ENZYME ACTION 


Mouth 


Saliva 


None 


None 


Stomach 


Gast'ric Juice 


Rennin 


Coagulates Milk 






Pepsin and Hy- 
drochloric acid 


( Acid Proteins 
■j Proteoses 
( Peptones 


Small Intestines 


Pancreatic Juice 


Trypsin (in al- 
kaline medi- 
um) 


i Alkali Proteins 
-j Proteoses 
( Peptones 




Bile 


None 


None 




Intestinal Juice 


Erepsin (acts 
only on pro- 
teoses and 
peptones) 


Amino Acids 



32 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Digestion of Fat 

Fat is not acted upon by the secretions of the mouth nor 
to any great extent by those of the stomach. The gastric 
juice contains an enzyme called gastric lipase, which has the 
power of acting on emulsified fats, such as in cream or yolk 
of eggs. It plays a more important part in the digestion of 
infants than of adufts. 

The presence of fat in the stomach retards the secretion of 
gastric juice. Hence a certain excess of fat in the stomach 
is sufficient to close the pylorus for a longer or shorter time, 
due t-o the failure of the appearance of free hydrochloric 
acid. This doubtless accounts for the fact that fat in the diet 
often seems to retard and otherwise disturb digestion. 

Digestion of fat takes place mainly in the small intestines. 
The pancreatic juice contains an enzyme called steapsin or 
pancreatic lipase, which has the power of emulsifying fats 
and also of splitting them into fatty acids and glycerine. 

The bile contains no such enzymes, but it is nevertheless an 
important factor in the digestion of fat. It has the power of 
increasing greatly the activity of the pancreatic lipase (steap- 
sin) and of holding in solution the fatty acids formed by 
its action, so that they are more perfectly absorbed. When 
bile is lacking, much of the fat fails of absorption and is 
excreted through the intestines. Emulsification is an im- 
portant aid in the splitting of fat into fatty acids and glycer- 
ine, the forms in which fat is chiefly absorbed. 

Digestion of Carbohydrates 
I. Digestion of Starch. — There is little doubt that prim- 
itive man accomplished much of the digestion of starch in 
the mouth. The saliva contains an enzyme, ptyalin. By the 
action of ptyalin starch is changed to dextrins and these are 
later changed to maltose. The crude, uncooked food re- 
quired prolonged mastication before it could be swallowed 
and during this mastication the enzyme had opportunity for 
action. Raw starch is so very slowly affected by enzymes 
that much of the food value of uncooked cereals is lost, so 



DIGESTION 33 

that the practice of baking ground grain into bread developed 
very early. This fact in regard to starch digestion is often 
disregarded by advocates of a return to raw foods. 

There is said to be some evidence that a pharyngeal reflex 
once existed which prevented the bolting of foods which are 
capable of salivary digestion, or which are not easily di- 
gestible without mastication. In recent years, Mr. Horace 
Fletcher has counseled a return to prolonged mastication, in 
order that salivary digestion may be carried to its fullest ex- 
tent. It is claimed that the more perfect utilization of all 
food eaten necessitates the taking of a smaller amount. 
There is no doubt that thorough mastication renders the di- 
gestion of starch easier and more complete but it will not 
greatly alter the total food requirement. 

The starchy food mixed with saliva passes from the mouth 
to the stomach and lodges in the fundus, the portions last 
eaten always going to the center of the mass. Thus, while 
the gastric juice is at work upon the outer layer, attacking 
the protein of the diet, the inner portions remain alkaline for 
a considerable time, so that salivary digestion may continue 
undisturbed. 

From time to time the soluble products of salivary and 
gastric digestion pass into the small intestine. Here the con- 
version of starch and intermediate products into simple 
sugars is completed. The pancreatic juice contains an 
enzyme called amylopsin, which acts like ptyalin, i.e., changes 
starch to dextrins and finally to maltose. 

The intestinal juice contains an enzyme called maltasc 
capable of changing maltose to dextrose, the final product in 
starch digestion. 

Summary. — The chemical changes in starch during the 
process of digestion are shown in the following table : 



34 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



PART OF 

ALIMENTARY 

TRACT 


NAME 
OF 

SECRETION 


ENZYMES 

ACTING ON 

STARCH 


PRODUCTS OF 
ENZYME 
ACTION 


Mouth 


Saliva 


Ptyalin 


\ Dextrins 
I Maltose 


Stomach 


Gastric Juice 
Pancreatic Juice 
Intestinal Juice 


None 




Small Intestines 


Amylopsin 
Maltase 


j Dextrins 
| Maltose 

Dextrose 



2. Digestion of Sugars. — Although sugars are perfectly 
soluble and easily absorbed, they must all be converted into 
monosaccharides or simple sugars (chiefly dextrose) before 
they can be utilized by the body. Hence we. find a number 
of enzymes in the alimentary tract acting upon disaccharides. 
The intestinal juice contains three such enzymes ; sucrase, 
.acting on sucrose (cane sugar), lactase, acting on lactose, 
and maltase, acting on maltose. 

Summary. — The chemical changes in sugar during the 
process of digestion are shown in the following table: 



PART OF 


NAME 


ENZYMES 


PRODUCTS OF 


ALIMENTARY 


OF 


ACTING ON 


ENZYME 


TRACT 


SECRETION 


SUGARS 


ACTION 


Small Intestines 


Intestinal Juice 


Lactase 


\ Dextrose 
( Galactose 






Maltase 


Dextrose 






Sucrase 


( Dextrose 
/ Levulose 



Mineral Matter and Water require no changes to prepare 
them for absorption. 



DIGESTION 35 

Resume of Digestion 

The processes of digestion are both mechanical and chem- 
ical. By mechanical processes the foods are first softened 
and finely divided, so as to be non-irritating to the walls of 
the alimentary tract and to expose as much surface as pos- 
sible to the action of the digestive enzymes ; secondly, they 
are moved along the alimentary tract from time to time, to 
facilitate digestion and absorption and to expel indigestible 
residues. The movements of the mouth in mastication, of 
the oesophagus in swallowing and of the intermediate and 
pyloric regions of the stomach in mixing the food with the 
gastric juice, the rhythmic and peristaltic movements of the 
small intestines, by which the food is alternately churned in 
a stationary position and then pushed along to a new region 
to repeat the process, and finally the anti-peristaltic move- 
ments of the first part of the large intestines and the slow 
peristalsis throughout its entire length, form a series of 
events of tremendous importance to the welfare of the 
organism. 

By chemical processes, complex food-stufTs are converted 
into simpler substances out of which the body can build the 
compounds essential to its persistence and activity. The di- 
gestive fluids and the enzymes contained therein, with the 
results of their activity, are most readily indicated by the 
following table ; 



36 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



PART OF 


NAME OF 


REACTION 


ENZYMES 


FOODSTUFFS 


PRODUCTS OF 


ALIMENTARY 


SECRETION 


TO 


PRESENT 


ACTED UPON 


ENZYME 


TRACT 




LITMUS 






ACTION 


Mouth 


Saliva 


Alkaline 


Ptyalin 


Starch 


( Dextrins 
\ Maltrose 


Stomach 


Gastric 
Juice 


Acid 

(0.2%- 
0.4% 
HCL.) 


Pepsin 


Proteins 


fAcid 

J Proteins 
J Proteoses 
[ Peptones 








Rennin 


Protein 

(especially 
casein of 
milk) 


Coagulated 
Protein 








Lipase 


Emulsified 
Fats 


Fatty acids 
and 
glycerine 


Small 


Pancreatic 


Alkaline 


Trypsin 


Proteins 


f Alkali 


Intestines 


Juice 








Proteins 
Proteoses 
Peptones 

and Amino 

Acids 








Steapsin 


Fats 


f Emulsified 








Lipase 




Fat 
• Fatty 

acids and 
glycerine 








Amylcpsin 


Starch 


Soluble 

Starch 
Dextrins 

_ Maltose 




Intestinal 


Alkaline 


Erepsin 


Proteins in 


Amino 




Juice 






the form of 
Proteoses 
and 
Peptones 


Acids 








Sucrase 


Sucrose 


Dextrose and 
Levulose 








Maltase 


Maltose 


Dextrose 








Lactase 


Lactose 


Dextrose and 
Galactose 



The bile contains no important enzymes, but greatly facilitates the digestion 
of fats. The intestinal juice contains an enzyme which makes trypsin an 
active enzyme, and a substance which helps to stimulate the flow of pancreatic 
juice. 

Inspection of the table on page 31 shows that there are five 
so-called digestive juices, viz. : saliva, gastric juice, pancreatic 
juice, bile and intestinal juice. All are produced intermit- 
tently except the bile, which is secreted continuously into the 



DIGESTION 37 

gall-bladder and discharged at intervals into the intestine. 
All are alkaline except the gastric juice. All contain power- 
ful enzymes except the bile. Enzymes which digest protein 
occur in the gastric juice (pepsin), the pancreatic juice 
(trypsin) and the intestinal juice (erepsin). Ferments 
which transform starch to sugar occur especially in the saliva 
and pancreatic juices and are commonly known as diastatic 
enzymes. Ptyalin is an old name for salivary diastase, amy- 
lopsin for pancreatic diastase. 

The principal fat-splitting enzyme occurs in the pan- 
creatic juice and is known as pancreatic lipase or steapsin. 
Numerous enzymes of minor importance occur in the gastric, 
pancreatic and intestinal juices. Bile in itself is able to 
emulsify fat as a step toward digestion. 

Factors Determining Rate of Digestion 

We know of the existence of many factors which influence 
salivary and gastric digestion but much less about intestinal 
digestion. Among these are the nature of the food, cook- 
ery, appetite, mastication, palatability, mental state, amount 
of fluid in the meal, the pyloric reflexes, etc. The nature of 
the individual plays a powerful role ; some individuals can 
subsist almost wholly upon one or a few articles, while others 
quickly revolt against monotony of diet. Idiosyncrasy is 
another important factor ; for example, some individuals can- 
not eat mutton, however disguised, while in others sugar is 
so strong a stimulant to peristalsis that it sets up a violent 
diarrhoea. The above being true of presumably healthy peo- 
ple, the factors which may influence digestion in the sick, 
invalid and convalescent must be still more uncertain. Hence 
tables which purport to give the relative digestibility of 
foods must be studied with allowances. We can study this 
problem in test tubes or by examining the washings from the 
stomach after definite meals or in fistula patients but the 
results can hardly be applied forthwith to all persons. 

The direct stimuli to the secretion of saliva are the sight, 
odor or taste of food, or the mechanical irritation produced 



38 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

by contact of food-stuffs with the mouth. Indirectly, the 
thought of food may be a psychic stimulus to the flow of 
saliva. Excitement may so check the flow of saliva that it 
is impossible to swallow dry food. 

The stimuli to the secretion of gastric juice are both psy- 
chic and chemical. Pawlov has demonstrated, in the case of 
dogs, that the sight of food or the chewing of food in the 
mouth may produce a very effective flow of gastric juice, to 
which he attributes great importance in digestion. How im- 
portant this preliminary flow before food enters the stomach 
may be in the case of man has not been very clearly demon- 
strated but it seems reasonable that the desire for eating, the 
act of eating and the pleasure obtained therefrom exercise 
a favorable influence upon gastric secretion. It has recently 
been shown that the products of salivary digestion act^as 
a stimulus to the flow of gastric juice and that once the 
process of gastric digestion is initiated, the products of pep- 
tic activity cause the continuance of the secretion as long 
as the food remains in the stomach. The mere mechanical 
irritation caused by the presence of food in the stomach is 
ineffective. Thus white of tgg will cause no flow. But cer- 
tain substances, such as meat extracts, bitters and condi- 
ments, promote secretion. Hawk has demonstrated that the 
drinking of water is a direct stimulus to gastric secretion. 
The use of meat broths, gelatin jellies, peptones (i.e., prod- 
ucts of gastric digestion) and toast (containing dextrins 
or products of salivary digestion) and the taking of a glass 
of water at the beginning of a meal, or to promote feeble 
gastric digestion in an invalid, is therefore a rational practice. 

Absorption 

While absorption through a permeable animal membrane 
outside the body may be a simple physical process, following 
the ordinary laws of pressure, diffusion, osmosis, etc., the 
case is far otherwise in the alimentary tract, where the selec- 
tive activity of the living cell becomes a positive factor. The 



ABSORPTION 39 

pressure in secreting glands rises above blood pressure and 
substances pass inward to the body through the mucous mem- 
brane without a corresponding movement in the opposite di- 
rection. Thus blood serum placed in a loop of intestine is 
promptly absorbed, but if the loop be surrounded with serum 
it does not pass in a similar manner into the lumen of the 
section of intestine. 

The stomach is not primarily an absorbing organ but a 
few substances, such as sugars and peptones, pass to a lim- 
ited extent through its walls. The most important seat of 
absorption is the small intestine and second, the large intes- 
tine. Absorption in the small intestine is affected through 
the innumerable little projections known as "villi", which 
line the intestine, and which greatly extend the amount of 
surface. These villi contain a capillary network and a so- 
called lacteal space. The capillaries by converging into larger 
vessels eventually form the portal vein which passes through 
the liver. The lacteal spaces are prolonged into lymphatic 
vessels which similarly converge to form the thoracic duct. 
The lacteals are intended almost wholly for the absorption of 
the fats, all other digestive products passing through the liver 
before reaching the general circulation. 

Absorption continues throughout the length of the large 
intestine, being especially favored by antiperistalsis in the 
upper portions. Constipation sometimes results from the 
great absorptive power of this region, the feces being left dry 
and hard and hence difficult to evacuate. 

Absorption of Proteins. — It was long a matter of doubt as 
to the form in which proteins were absorbed but there was a 
strong inclination to believe that they were transformed be- 
fore being transported by the blood, because it was almost 
impossible to detect amino acids in the blood or tissues. 
We now know that this was due to the imperfection of our 
chemical methods. It has recently been demonstrated by 
several independent investigators that amino acids are ab- 
sorbed from the intestines, circulate in the blood and pass 
to the tissues, and that the cells of the body are able to take 



40 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

them up and use them according to their needs. Animals 
have been made to store protein when the only nitrogen 
supplied to the blood was in the form of amino acids. 

Traces of protein, proteoses or peptones may be absorbed 
from the stomach or intestines but ordinarily the amount is 
negligible. Such products when present in the blood tend 
to pass quickly into the urine. The peculiar idiosyncrasy of 
poisoning from such foods as eggs, milk, fish, etc., is thought 
to be due to the influence of traces of absorbed proteins to 
which the subject shows an anaphylactic reaction. 

Absorption of Fats. — It is now commonly believed that 
fats are absorbed in the form of the end products of its di- 
gestion, i.e., fatty acids and glycerine, and that somewhere in 
the intestinal wall these are recombined into neutral fats. It 
is possible that some of the finely emulsified fats are able to 
pass unchanged through the intestinal wall. In either case, 
minute fat droplets pass into the lacteals and finally into the 
blood stream by way of the thoracic duct. A small portion 
finds its way directly into the blood. 

Fats having a low melting point are absorbed more quickly 
than solid fats and pure fat more readily than fat inter- 
mingled with other food principles, as in fat meat. 

Absorption of Carbohydrates. — The end products of car- 
bohydrate digestion pass to the blood by way of the portal 
system. The monosaccharides on reaching the liver enter the 
general circulation as dextrose if required for immediate use ; 
otherwise they are stored in the liver in the form of glycogen, 
which can be again transformed into sugar when demanded 
by the system to furnish energy. Sugars are so readily ab- 
sorbed that if taken in large quantities the body may be un- 
able to utilize them and the excess is excreted in the urine. 
This is especially true in case of an excess of cane sugar or 
milk sugar. They may be absorbed before digestion and 
there are no enzymes in the blood capable of converting them 
into dextrose so that they can be burned or stored. Under 
such circumstances they are useless and must be gotten rid 
of. If maltose is absorbed too rapidly, it may still be changed 



ABSORPTION 41 

to dextrose by enzymes in the blood or tissues and so be 
utilized. 

Absorption of Mineral Matter. — As salts are not digested 
in the ordinary sense of the word they require nothing more 
than solution in the digestive fluids before absorption. The 
mineral matter is set free from food and diffuses more or less 
rapidly into the surrounding fluids. Common salt is most 
quickly absorbed. The chief locality for absorption is the 
small intestine. The older text books taught that salts 
were absorbed only by diffusion through the intestinal wall, 
which required that another solution must at the same time 
pass from the blood to the intestines until both fluids were 
of the same degree of concentration. It appears however 
that in the main, mineral matter is taken up in the intestinal 
wall without diffusion and as fast as it can be incorporated 
with certain peculiar solvents is absorbed into the blood. 

Absorption of Water. — Water is not absorbed by the stom- 
ach but passes quickly in little spurts (if taken alone) into 
the intestines. Here it is very rapidly absorbed ; it may be 
excreted through the kidneys within twenty minutes after 
ingestion. The rapidity of absorption may be considerably 
influenced by mineral matter dissolved in the water. 

Summary. — Absorption is an active, not a passive process. 
It takes place mainly in the intestines, the larger part before 
the food reaches the ileo-cecal valve. 

Proteins are absorbed by the villi, chiefly in the form of 
amino acids and pass through the portal vein to the liver. 

Fats are absorbed by the lacteals, chiefly in the form of 
fatty acids and glycerine, but pass to the lymphatics as neu- 
tral fat and enter the blood stream from the thoracic duct. 

Carbohydrates are absorbed by the villi in the form of 
sugar (chiefly dextrose) and pass through the portal vein to 
the liver. 

Unabsorbed material passes out as part of the feces (see 
Excretion, page 45. Undigested proteins, fats and carbo- 
hydrates are liable to attack by putrefactive and fermenta- 
tive organisms in the intestines. The products of such bac- 



42 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

terial action are absorbed to a considerable extent. Carbohy- 
drates which escape digestion tend to produce lactic and 
other acids. This fermentation is not altogether an evil, 
for it checks the putrefaction of undigested meat. The latter 
is undesirable, as the products are likely to prove toxic. It 
is for this reason that lactic acid, especially in the form of 
buttermilk and artificially fermented sour milk, is largely 
employed as a remedial agent in intestinal indigestion. 

Metabolism 

Metabolism is the sum of the chemical changes taking place 
in the cells of the body in connection with all biological 
processes, including growth, repair and waste, generation 
and maintenance of heat, all manifestations of functional 
activity, storage of surplus nutriment, etc. It comprises two 
phases, anabolism and katabolism. 

Anabolism embraces the changes involved in the upbuild- 
ing of the cells and corresponds in a general way to nutri- 
tion. Assimilation is the selective act of the cells in appro- 
priating the special form of nutriment in the circulating 
blood which is suited for their needs. The special phases of 
anabolism comprise the assimilation of nitrogen for growth 
and repair of protoplasm, the storage of a certain amount of 
fat and carbohydrate, the assimilation of oxygen for main- 
tenance of heat and functional activity and the retention of 
inorganic salts in the bones and other tissues. 

Katabolism comprises the changes involved in the contin- 
uous molecular waste of the cells, in the constant oxidation 
going on in the tissues resulting in the maintenance of animal 
heat, in the exercise of muscular, nervous and secretory ac- 
tivity and perhaps in the breaking up of protein into oxidiz- 
able carbohydrates and nitrogenous waste products. We 
speak less of the acts of katabolism than of the products 
of katabolism, which are a measure of those acts. The chief 
of these products are : ( i ) urea, the chief form of excretion 
of nitrogen, and (2) carbon dioxide and water, which repre- 
sent the products of energy yielding oxidations. 



METABOLISM 43 

Elimination is the escape or expulsion of the products of 
katabolism from the tissues into the blood, and corresponds 
to disassimilation or denutrition. Excretion is the final ex- 
pulsion of the end products of katabolism from the excretory 
organs and includes the expulsion of unabsorbed aliment by 
the bowel. 

In the case of certain products of metabolism, it is hardly 
possible to state positively whether they represent anabolism 
or katabolism. Here belong especially the substances formed 
in connection with secretion, as the digestive enzymes, the 
hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice, the iodothyrin of the 
thyroid gland and the adrenalin of the suprarenal gland. In 
all likelihood both factors participate, for certain substances 
must be assimilated from the food to form these bodies 
which in turn are set free in the blood. It is also true that 
some of these substances act by their mere presence, without 
apparent waste (catalytic action). 

Metabolism of Proteins. — When fats and carbohydrates 
enter normally into the diet a relatively small proportion of 
proteins are consumed by oxidation in the formation of 
energy. If the diet lacks sufficient fats and carbohydrates to 
meet the demand of the body for energy, excess proteins are 
burned to supply this demand. Certain savages subsist 
wholly on meat and remain in good health, and in the so- 
called Salisbury treatment of obesity, etc., it can be demon- 
strated at will that a patient may subsist for weeks on raw 
beef without apparent detriment, provided plenty of water 
is drunk, the excess of water aiding in the elimination of 
unutilized nitrogen. 

When absorbed proteins reach the liver, a large part of the 
nitrogen is split off and excreted as urea. The remaining 
portion goes to make good the small daily waste of body 
proteins. The portion of the protein molecules left after the 
nitrogen is split off is available as fuel. When carbohydrates 
and fats are liberally supplied, so that proteins are not re- 
quired for fuel, the daily amount needed is comparatively 
small. Even when the body is losing nitrogen rapidly, as in 



44 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

certain fevers, it has been found that this is partly because 
the body proteins are being used as fuel, and the loss can be 
largely prevented by furnishing more energy in the form of 
carbohydrates or fats. Much confusion has arisen because 
the excess of nitrogen in the diet is to some extent identical 
in form with the waste products of cellular activity. Besides 
urea, some of the chief nitrogenous products of protein me- 
tabolism are ammonium salts, uric acid, creatin and creatinin. 

The non-nitrogenous portion of conjugated proteins may 
be burned or possibly stored but the nitrogen excess must be 
eliminated. Because of the fact that excess of nitrogen 
throws work on the kidneys, it is assumed that an excessive 
protein diet is injurious to the integrity of these organs. 
This is evident in diseased kidneys but cannot be proved for 
healthy organs. However, it seems unnecessary to consume 
a great excess of protein and pernaps unwise, owing to the 
great frequency of fatal kidney diseases. At any rate, except 
where protein is specially advantageous for ease of digestion, 
it is unnecessary to make it a large part of the diet. 

Metabolism of Fats. — Fats, which are passed into the 
blood from the thoracic duct, are carried over the body and 
deposited in many organs and tissues, unless needed for im- 
mediate uses as a source of energy, in which case they are 
oxidized to carbon dioxide and water. It has been shown that 
diet-fat may be deposited in the body in the same form as 
eaten, but the readiest means of forming body fat is usually 
to give an excess of carbohydrate. The ease with which car- 
bohydrates form fat is shown in the case of cows, which pro- 
duce large quantities of butter fat on an herbivorous diet. It 
is also possible to form fat from protein, but it is difficult, as 
a considerable part of the energy of the protein molecule goes 
to get rid of the nitrogen and protein increases the rate of 
metabolism. We know very little of the details of fat me- 
tabolism. Some investigators hold that it must be converted 
into dextrose before it can be oxidized. As already stated, 
an excess of carbohydrate may be stored in the form of fat. 



EXCRETION 45 

Metabolism of Carbohydrates. — The blood maintains a 
constant sugar content of about 0.08 — 0.11 per cent. 1 As fast 
as this sugar is oxidized, it is replaced by more from the 
store of glycogen in the liver and muscles, or from newly 
formed sugar of recently digested food. The final products 
of carbohydrate oxidation are carbon dioxide and water, but 
several intermediate products (as lactic acid) are first 
formed, probably by the action of enzymes. 

When the body is unable to store any more carbohydrate 
as glycogen, all further storage of excess is in the form of 
fat. 

When sugar is lacking in the blood, as in starvation or 
failure to utilize carbohydrates, the sugar content is main- 
tained at the expense of protein. This explains why the dia- 
betic who is eating no carbohydrate, may still excrete sugar 
in the urine. There is some experimental evidence that 
sugar may be formed also from fat. At any rate, fat is oxi- 
dized in absence of carbohydrate and whether it is first 
changed to sugar or oxidized directly, it is a compact means 
of strong energy, since one gram of fat will yield 2j4 times 
as much as an equal amount of protein or carbohydrate. 

Excretion 

The waste products of metabolism and all unutilized food, 
along with the products of oxidation, are eliminated from the 
system in several ways. W'ater escapes through the lungs, 
skin and kidneys. Aside from the obvious fluid perspiration, 
a steady evaporation takes place from the skin (insensible 
perspiration). The carbon dioxide produced by oxidation 
escapes by the lungs and nitrogenous products of protein 
metabolism by the urine. The feces in health are made up 
of the secretions and excretions of the alimentary tract, bac- 
teria, indigestible food waste, and a little undigested food 
material. When there is excessive putrefaction of the fecal 
matter, some of the soluble material is absorbed and elimi- 

1 Hawk's "Physiological Chemistry," page 274. 



46 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

nated in the urine. Generally speaking, putrefaction (of 
nitrogenous food) and fermentation (of carbohydrates) hold 
each other in check. Starving people pass feces, thus show- 
ing that the bowel is a true excretory organ. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 

1. What does the term "nutrition" include? 

2. Name and describe the two processes concerned in digestion. 

3. Describe digestion in the mouth. What enzymes are present? 
On what substances do they act? What products are formed? 

4. W'hat digestive fluid is secreted by the stomach? What enzymes 
does it contain? What changes in food do they cause? 

5. What are the functions of the hydrochloric acid of the gastric 
juice? 

6. W T hat means have we of stimulating the flow of gastric juice? 
Of saliva? 

7. What factors control the opening of the pyloric sphincter? 

8. What digestive fluids are present in the small intestine? What 
enzymes does each contain? On what substances do they act? 
What products are formed? 

9. Describe the part which bile plays in digestion. 

10. Outline the digestion of protein, fat and carbohydrate from the 
time each enters the mouth until it is absorbed. 

11. In what part of the digestive tract does absorption take place? 

12. Describe the absorption of proteins, fats, carbohydrates, mineral 
matter and water. 

13. Define the following terms : metabolism, anabolism, katabolism, 
assimilation, elimination, excretion. 

14. Discuss the metabolism of protein. What becomes of the nitro- 
gen? What becomes of the non-nitrogenous part of the protein 
molecule? What are the end products of protein oxidation? 

15. Describe the fate of fat in metabolism. What products are 
formed when it is oxidized? 

16. What becomes of carbohydrate after absorption? What are the 
end products of its oxidation? 

17. In what ways does the body rid itself of its waste products? 



CHAPTER III 
FOOD VALUES 

NITROGEN BALANCE ENERGY VALUE OF FOOD 

We are now in position to understand something of food 
values, which depend on the food actually utilized in the 
body, to the exclusion of food unabsorbed or eliminated be- 
cause in excess of the demands of the system. Energy- 
yielding material which is not used at the time may be stored, 
but beyond a certain point stored nutriment must be re- 
garded as undesirable, as in obese subjects. 

As stated by Atwater, the food supplies body wants in five 
ways: (i) tissue-building, (2) tissue-repairing, (3) storage 
for future use, (4) oxidation to maintain animal heat and 
(5) oxidation to supply energy ; or we may say that accord- 
ing to function, foods are classified as tissue-formers or 
body-builders, energy (or work and heat) producers, insti- 
gators and regulators of body processes. (See page 4.) 

Nitrogen Balance or Nitrogen Equilibrium 

In body building and repairing, the nitrogen of protein 
food is indispensable. In the other functions, nitrogen is not 
utilized. Carbohydrates and fats are the natural and con- 
venient sources of energy, although the conjugated proteins 
contain in themselves non-nitrogenous material capable of 
oxidation. As already stated, however, to depend largely 
upon proteins for oxidizable food means the ingestion of an 
enormous quantity of unnecessary nitrogen, the getting rid 
of which involves waste of energy and is thought to necessi- 
tate a strain upon the excretory system. Furthermore, when 
the diet consists chiefly of proteins, much of the latter may 

47 



48 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

not be digested and absorbed as such, but may remain in the 
intestine, there to undergo putrefactive changes. In the 
course of putrefaction certain soluble poisonous substances 
form and are absorbed, requiring elimination by the kidneys. 
The excess of nitrogen which cannot be utilized in tissue re- 
pair must also be eliminated by the kidneys. Thus while 
people may thrive on a diet rich in proteins, there is con- 
siderable evidence that vitality, endurance and resistance to 
disease are better attained with a diet in which the fuel foods 
(carbohydrates and fats) predominate. 

Nitrogen cannot be stored to any extent and is constantly 
eliminated in the urine as urea and other nitrogenous sub- 
stances. When the diet-nitrogen corresponds in amount with 
the eliminated nitrogen, the metabolism of nitrogen is bal- 
anced, or in a state of equilibrium. If too small a quantity 
of nitrogenous food is taken it does not compensate for the 
waste of body nitrogen which is inseparable from life. The 
same thing occurs when for any reason the food nitrogen is 
not absorbed, or is eliminated without being utilized. This 
condition of nitrogen starvation is characteristic of under- 
feeding, wasting diseases, defective assimilation, etc. Con- 
versely equilibrium between food nitrogen and excreted ni- 
trogen represents good nutrition, health and energy, for 
while nitrogen cannot be permanently stored it is possible for 
a balance to be maintained over long periods. It was once 
taught that increased elimination of nitrogen was due chiefly 
to the waste of tissue incidental to prolonged and severe 
muscular or nervous effort ; at a later period, however, it be- 
came apparent that this waste was comparatively little and 
constant for the individual regardless of the amount of mus- 
cular exercise, so that the urea nitrogen depends chiefly on 
the amount of diet nitrogen. The loss of nitrogen, however, 
in wasting disease, starvation, etc., is extensive, so that in 
convalescence the body is able to store some nitrogen. 

Nitrogen retention is greatly facilitated in all cases by a 
liberal supply of carbohydrates and fats. 

Nitrogen metabolism can hardly be studied in the ordinary 



ENERGY VALUE 49 

patient, on account of the number and variety of tests which 
must be accurately made, so that our only guide is the results 
of scientific investigation of the amounts of nitrogen required 
under given conditions, and the general well-being of the 
subject. If weight is maintained along with a healthy state 
of functions, the ration in question is suitable for the sub- 
ject tested. If the individual be in the growing period, the 
ration should be such that the growth rate is normal. If 
he be convalescent, the recovery of the original weight 
should be constantly progressive. Of late years, however, 
the emphasis on nitrogen values alone has been largely super- 
seded by greater attention to total fuel values as being of 
greater practical worth. It is known that a relatively small 
and easily obtained quantity of nitrogen is sufficient to repair 
waste in the average individual, but the food required for 
producing energy is very significant in amount. With a lib- 
eral supply of carbohydrates and fats, the ordinary daily 
waste of nitrogen in one adult may be reduced as low as 3 to 
4 grams daily (corresponding to 20 to 25 grams of protein). 
To insure a full supply of nitrogen and to maintain nitro- 
gen equilibrium at a higher level than the bare maintenance 
requirement, considerably more than this amount is com- 
monly taken. From 75 to 100 grams of protein per day is re- 
garded as a liberal supply for an average man (weighing 70 
kilograms or 154 lbs.) on an ordinary mixed diet of suitable 
energy value. 

The Energy Value of Food 

In Liebig's time it was recognized that animal heat was 
generated by carbohydrates and fats, but the physiologists of 
that day did not realize that these were the nutrients which 
furnished the body with energy for its activity. They 
thought that all muscular work was done at the expense of 
nitrogenous material. It has taken many years for us to 
realize fully that animal energy in all its forms is derived 
primarily from carbohydrate material, secondly from fats, 



5o PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

and thirdly from proteins only in so far as they yield com- 
bustible, non-nitrogenous bodies. 

Energy may be denned as the power to do work. This 
force manifests itself in different ways. It may be latent, 
or inactive ; or it may be active in various forms, such as 
heat, chemical or electrical energy, or mechanical movement, 
which we call work. It may be changed from one of these 
forms into another without loss. The most convenient way to 
measure energy is by transforming it into heat. A unit has 
been devised to express different amounts of heat, corres- 
ponding to a definite number of work units. This is called the 
calorie. The large Calorie (spelled with a capital C) repre- 
sents the amount of heat required to raise the temperature 
of one kilogram of water one degree Centigrade. This is 
the unit commonly used in determining the energy value of 
food. The small calorie (spelled with a small c) is -^ of 
a large Calorie. 

Energy cannot be created. We must put into any machine 
as much force as we expect to get from it. Even in the most 
efficient machine we cannot recover all of the energy in the 
form of useful work; some of it is always transformed into 
heat, owing to friction. This is true even in the body, which 
is a most efficient machine, but here much of the waste en- 
ergy in the form of heat is turned to good account in main- 
taining the body temperature. 

The source of energy for the body is food, just as much as 
the source of energy for the engine is coal. Plants store up 
the sun's energy, it is transferred to animals which eat the 
plants, and eventually man gets it by eating the plant and 
animal foods. The amount of energy in any given food ma- 
terial is measured by the amount of heat which it will pro- 
duce. In general, this is the same whether the food be 
burned outside or inside the body, the total result in any 
case depending upon the amount of the food-stuff which is 
utilized by the body. 

An instrument devised for the measurement of heat is 
called a calorimeter. To determine the fuel value of any 



ENERGY VALUE 51 

food material outside of the body a given amount is placed 
in a calorimeter, where it is burned in an atmosphere of pure 
oxygen in a vessel surrounded by water. The heat generated 
raises the temperature of the water and the change is ob- 
served with a very delicate thermometer. From this the 
total heat evolved is calculated. To determine the fuel value 
of this material within the body, the average amount which 
is lost in digestion and that which is not completely oxidized 
before excretion, are deducted from the fuel value outside 
the body. The result is the physiological fuel value. Many 
years ago, Rubner determined averages for proteins, fats, 
and carbohydrates from experiments on dogs. In recent 
times, further experiments made in this country on human 
subjects by Prof. At water and his associates have modified 
these factors somewhat. The following are therefore ac- 
cepted today as the average energy values of food when 
utilized in the body : 

1 gram of Protein yields 4 Calories 

1 gram of Fat yields 9 Calories 

1 gram of Carbohydrate .... yields 4 Calories 

Determination of Energy Value of Food 

To determine the energy value of a given amount of any 
food, it is necessary, 

First. — To know its composition, i.e., the percentages of 
protein, fat, and carbohydrate present. Tables are available 
giving the results of many analyses, as in Bulletin 28, Office 
of Experiment Station, United States Dept. of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C, "The Chemical Composition of Amer- 
ican Food Materials." 

Second. — From these percentages to determine in grams, 
the weight of protein, fat and carbohydrate, which can be ob- 
tained from a given amount of the food material. 

Third. — To multiply these weights by the energy value of 
one gram of each of the three food principles. 

By way of illustration let us find the fuel value of one loaf 
of bread, weighing 12 ounces. 



52 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

(i) By referring to Bulletin 28, we find that white bread 
(miscellaneous) yields on the average, 

9.3 % protein. 
1.2 % fat. 
52.7 % carbohydrate. 

(2) To get the weight of protein, fat and carbohydrate in 
grams, we must first convert the total weight of bread into 
grams : 

1 oz = 28.35 grams. 

12 oz = 340.2 grams. 

Then 340.2 X 0.093 = 31.64 grams of protein. 

340.2 X 0.012 = 4.08 grams of fat. 

340.2 X 0.527 = 179.28 grams of carbohydrate. 

(3) Multiplying the amount of each nutrient by the proper 
factor : 

31.64 grams protein .' X 4 = 126.56 Calories 

4.08 grams fat X9= 36.72 Calories 

179.28 grams carbohydrate X4 = 717.12 Calories 

Total 880.40 Calories 

Hence the total energy value of 1 loaf of bread weighing 
12 ounces is 880.4 calories. 

To calculate the total energy value of any combination of 
foods, it is necessary to compute the fuel value of each in- 
gredient and take the sum of the whole group. 

Thus for Egg Broth, page 308, it is necessary first to get 
the weight in grams of each of the following ingredients and 
then to estimate their energy value as indicated above. 

Yolk of 1 egg — 17 grams. 

1 tablespoon sugar = 13.12 grams. 

1 cup milk =244 grams. 

1 tablespoon brandy = 14.17 grams. 

In this book the food values of all the materials used have 
been incorporated in a table, page 58 to 76, so that by refer- 
ence to this the value of any combination is readily ascer- 
tainable. 



ENERGY VALUE 53 

Yolk of 1 egg = 60 Calories 

1 tablespoon sugar = 52 Calories 

1 cup milk = 169 Calories 

1 tablespoon brandy 1 = 42 Calories 

Total energy value 323 Calories 

To estimate the fuel value of any diet, it is simply neces- 
sary to compute the food value of each food material used 
and add the results together. 

To calculate the energy value of an infant's diet it is nec- 
essary to know the amounts of proteins, fats and carbo- 
hydrates present. For example, given a formula with the 
following percentage composition : 

Proteins 0.7% 

Fats 2.7% 

Carbohydrates 6.0% 

Feedings per day 9. Amount at eagh feed iy 2 ounces. 

The total quantity for the 24 hours will be 1^ X 9 = 
13^2 ounces. 

1 ounce = 28.35 grams. 

13.5 ounces == 382.7 grams 

Then 382.7 X 0.007 = 2.67 grams protein 

382.7 X 0.027 = 10.33 grams of fat 

382.7 X 0.06 = 22.96 grams of carbohydrate 

Then 2.67 X 4 = 10.68 Calories 

10.33 X 9 = 92.97 Calories 

22.96 X 4 = 111.84 Calories 

10.68 + 92.97 + 111.84 = 215.49 Calories = total fuel 

value for the 24 hours. 

Work goes on continually in the living body, whether 
asleep or awake, idle or active, sick or well. In the resting 
body it consists of such internal work as that of digestion 
and absorption, circulation, respiration, muscular tension, 
and intracellular work. In youth these functions are more 
active than in adult life ; in old age they are somewhat less 
active. For a man of average weight (154 pounds or 70 
kilograms) from 1600 to 2000 calories daily are required 

1 The energy value of alcohol is 7 calories per gram. It is necessary, there- 
fore, to know the per cent, of alcohol in any liquor. 



54 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

to supply energy for these internal activities. Children re- 
quire somewhat more in proportion to their body weight, 
aged persons somewhat less. 

Beyond this, the factor of most significance in determining 
the total food requirement for any individual is the amount 
of muscular activity. A man requiring ioo calories per 
hour at rest may by hard work raise his energy requirement 
as high as 500 or 600 calories per hour. For this reason a 
person engaged in a sedentary occupation needs less food 
than one whose work is hard physical labor, as a farmer or 
a lumberman. Children are usually more active than adults 
and hence in proportion to their weight require more food, 
while inactive aged persons require very little. Averages 
obtained from many observations on the amount of food 
consumed by individuals under different conditions, show 
that the energy requirement of a sedentary man of 70 kilo- 
grams body weight is approximately 2500 calories, while that 
of a moderately active man of the same weight is about 3000 
calories. 

The most convenient means of calculating the energy re- 
quirement of an individual is afforded by the following 
table, determined for the adult man of average weight : 

Average Normal Output of Heat From the Body 

AVERAGE 
CONDITION OF MUSCULAR ACTIVITY CALORIES PER 

HOUR 

Man at rest, sleeping 65 Calories 

Man awake, lying still 70-85 Calories 

Man awake, sitting up 100 Calories 

Man standing at rest 115 Calories 

Man at light muscular exercise 170 Calories 

Man at moderately active muscular exercise.. 290 Calories 

Man at severe muscular exercise.. ■ 450 Calories 

Man at very severe muscular exercise 600 Calories 

To illustrate the use of this table, let us calculate the 
energy requirement of a woman weighing 120 lbs. under 
the following conditions : 



ENERGY RED U I REM EX TS 55 

Sleeps 9 hours 9 X 65 = 585 Calories 

Works at desk 8 hours 8 X 100 = 800 Calories 

Walks or does light exercise 3 hrs.. 3 X 170 = 510 Calories 

Reads or sits quietly sewing 4 hrs.. . 4 X 100 = 400 Calories 



2295 Calories 

Since these factors are for a man weighing 154 lbs., for a 
woman of 120 lbs. under above conditions, reduce this pro- 
portionately to her weight. 

154 : 120 : : 2295 : X 

X = 1788 Calories — total energy requirement for a 
woman of 120 lbs., under the above conditions. 

In making estimates for any individual, age, weight, size 
and shape, season and climate, etc., must be considered as 
well as muscular activity. 

As has been said, the energy requirements of children are 
high, due in part to the factor of growth and in part because 
they are more active than the average adult. 

Energy Requirements of Children per Unit of Body 
Weight 1 

Calories per kilogram Calories per lb. 

Under 1 year 100 45 

1- 2 years 100-90 45-40 

2- 5 years : 90-80 40-36 

6- 9 years 80-70 36-32 

10-13 years 75-60 34-27 

14-17 years 65-50 30-22 

18-25 years 55-40 25-18 

Total Energy Requirements of Children (Assuming 
Average Size at the Different Ages) 2 

Children of 1- 2 years, inclusive 1000-1200 Calories per day 

Children of 2- 5 years, inclusive 1200-1500 Calories per day 

Children of 6- 9 years, inclusive 1400-2000 Calories per dav 

Girls of 10-13 years, inclusive 1800-2400 Calories per day 

Boys of 10-13 years, inclusive 2300-3000 Calories per day 

Girls of 14-17 years, inclusive 2200-2600 Calories per day 

Boys of 14-17 years, inclusive 2800-4000 Calories per day 

1 Quoted from Sherman's "Chemistry of Food and Nutrition," 2nd Edition, 
page 196. 

2 Ibid. p. 197. 



56 PRACTICAL 'DIETETICS 

A tall, thin person requires more food than a short, fat 
person of equal weight. Also, the person of nervous tem- 
perament, in whom muscular tension is high, may require 
more food than one of phlegmatic temperament. More en- 
ergy is lost in the form of heat in cold weather than in 
warm. Because of the numerous factors involved in any 
case, it is possible to calculate the absolute energy require- 
ment only by rigid scientific experiment. The tables given 
above, however, are a useful guide to the approximate 
amount of food required by different individuals. 

The protein requirement is conveniently estimated by pro- 
viding 10-15 per cent, of the day's energy in the form of 
protein. Thus for a man whose energy requirement is 3000 
calories per day, 360 calories from protein (12 per cent.) 
would correspond to 90 grams of protein, which would be a 
fairly liberal allowance. 

As an aid to easy estimation of the food value of any diet, 
the following tables have been introduced, showing the nutri- 
tive value of the food materials used in the recipes in this 
book, calculated for the quantities commonly required in 
cooking for individuals. 

The values for larger amounts will be easily obtained by 
simple multiplication. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 

1. What are the functions of protein nitrogen? 

2. What are the disadvantages of a high protein diet? 

3. What is meant by nitrogen equilibrium? Nitrogen starvation? 

4. How would you tell whether the diet of an individual contained 
enough protein? 

5. Define energy. In what forms may it be manifested? 

6. How is the energy in foods measured? What methods are used 
in determining the energy value of food, (a) outside the body, 
(b) within the body? 

7. Give the definition of a calorie. 

8. What are the physiological fuel values of protein, fat and carbo- 
hydrate ? 

9. Calculate the energy value of one quart of milk, weighing 975 
grams. (The composition of whole milk is as follows : 3.3% 
protein, 4.0% fat, 5.0% carbohydrate.) Compare your answer 
with the table on page 69. 



QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 57 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 

10. What factors influence the total energy requirement of any in- 
dividual? Which of these factors is most significant? 

11. What is the energy requirement of a man weighing 70 kilograms, 
engaged in moderately active muscular work? Light work? 
Hard work? 

12. What is the energy requirement of a woman doing light muscular 
work? Moderate work? 

13. What is the energy requirement of an infant? Of a child of three 
years? Of an aged person? 

14. Calculate your own energy requirement, using the table giving 
the number of calories required per hour for various degrees of 
activity. 

15. Estimate your protein requirement. 



58 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



TABLE SHOWING THE NUTRITIVE VALUE OF THE FOOD MATERIALS 
USED IN THE RECIPES IN THIS BOOK, CALCULATED FOR THE QUAN- 
TITIES COMMONLY REQUIRED IN COOKING SMALL PORTIONS^ 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 



Almonds (15% Car.3) 

E. P.* . . . 
E. P. . . . 

Apples (15% Car.3) 
" Raw . 
" Fresh, E. P. 
" Sauce, Cooked , 

Apricots (15% Car.3) , 
Dried, Stewed 
" Dried, Stewed 
Dried.A.P.f . 
Fresh, E. P. . 
Fresh, A. P. . 



Arrowroot, Uncooked . 

Artichokes (15% Car.) 

Asparagus (5% Car. 4 ) 
Fresh . . 



10 small 
1 cup 
lib. 



1 medium 
lib. 

2 tbsp. 



4 cup 
1 cup 

lib. 

1 lb. 
1 tbsp. 
1 small 

6 stalks 



Ozs. 

0.35 
16 



2.7 

5 
16 

6.08 
16 

7.6 



Gms. 

10 
133 
453.6 



150 
453.6 
28.35 



76.5 
142 
453.6 
172.4 
453.6 

14.17 

230 

113.4 



g 

£ 

Eh 

O 
« 


A 


w 

ae 

< x 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


2.1 


5.49 


1.73 


27.9 


72.9 


23.0 


95.25 


249.03 


78.47 


0.5 


0.5 


16.0 


1.81 


2.27 


64.6 


0.071 


0.095 


6.85 


1.0 


0.22 


23.5 


6.6 


1.4 


88.5 


21.32 


4.54 


283.50 


1.89 




23.10 


4.99 




60.70 
13.65 


.6 


.46 


38.4 


2.04 


.24 


3.72 



Calo- 
ries 

' 63 

859 

2936 



70 

28*5 
30 



100 
391 
1260 
100 
263 

55 

181 



25 



Food materials in this Table are uncooked unless otherwise stated. 
* E. P. denotes "Edible Portion." 
t A. P. denotes "As Purchased". 

1 The materials are measured in standard 8-ounce measuring cups, or tablespoons. 
The measures are exactly level unless otherwise stated. Note page 98 for measures, 
weights, and abbreviations. 

2 The weights assigned to the various measurements in this table have been deter- 
mined carefully, but are the results of a limited number of experiments, and hence must 
be regarded as only approximate. The food values are given with sufficient accuracy 
to be within the limits of error of computations made on average analysis of food-stuffs. 
A number of the values stated are based upon the tables of Atwater and Bryant, Schall 
and Heisler, Arnold's Diet Chart, Dr. W. Coleman, Hill and Eckman. 

Many of the pound calculations in this table are quoted from Dr. Rose's "Labora- 
tory Manual of Dietetics," published by Macmillan Co., New York. 

3 Carbohydrates — For list of foods arranged approximately to per cent of carbohy- 
drates note page 384. For list of foods in order of their carbohydrate content from the 
lowest to highest note page 385. . . . . , , , 

4 Five-per-cent thrice-cooked (boiled) vegetables are considered carbohydrate free. 
Five-per-cent vegetables (cooked) "100 grams" are measured "2 heaping tbsp." although 
in reality the weight varies slightly. 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



59 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 



A — {Continued) 
Asparagus, Fresh 

Canned 
Canned 

B 

Bacon, Raw . 

44 Cooked . 

Raw, E. P. . 

Bananas (20% Car.) 

Barley, Pearl . . 
Pearl . . 
44 Crushed 
Flour 
Flour . . 



Bass, E. P. 

" E. P. 



Beans (20% Car.) 

Baked, Canned . 
Navy, Dried, A. P 
Navy Dried 

Beans, Butter (20% Car.) . 
Lima (10% Car.) 
Canned . 
Lima, Canned . 
Lima, Dried 
Lima, Fresh, E. P. . 

Beans, String (5% Car.) 

" String, Fresh, E. P. . 



Bean, Soy Bean Flour . 
Soy Bean Flour . 



1 bunch 



4 cup 

5 stalks 



2 slices 
2 slices 
lib. 



1 medium 

1 tbsp. 
lib. 
1 tbsp. 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 serving 
lib. 



1 cup 
1 cup 
1 lb. 

1 serving 



1 lb. 

2 tbsp. 

2 CUP 



1 serving 

2H cups (1 

in. pieces) 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 



Ozs. 
44 

4 

7 



Mo 



16 



3H 



16 



sy 2 

16 



8.22 

7 
16 



4.58 
16 
1.01 

2.88 



4 

8.50 



H 



Gms. 

1247 
lbs.) 
113.4 
200 



28.35 
10 
453.6 



100 

14.17 
453.6 
14.17 
17.01 

227 

100 
453.6 



233.4 
198.5 
453.6 

85 

129.7 
453.6 

28.6 
81.5 



113 
241.0 



5 a 



Gms. 
22.4 



1.72 
3.0 



2.2 

2.0 

48.63 



0.8 

1.3 

38.55 

1.1 

1.78 
19.0 

18.6 
84.3 



16.11 

44.59 

102.06 

7.9 

5.19 

18.14 

5.17 

5.97 



2.4 
5.54 



0.35 
5.6 



Gms. 
2.4 



0.12 
0.20 



13.7 

6.0 

412.08 



0.4 

0.2 

4.78 

0.1 

.37 
2.5 

2.8 
12.6 



5.85 
3.57 
8.16 

0.51 

0.39 
1.36 
0.43 
0.57 



0.3 
0.72 



0.15 
2.4 



Gms. 
41.0 



3.16 
5.6 



14.0 

117 

352.90 

11 3 

12.38 

174.3 



45.75 
118.23 
270.34 

24.7 

18.94 
66.21 
18.85 
17.93 



5.8 
17.83 



0.08 
1.28 



Calo- 
ries 
276 

21 
36 



132 

62 

2836 



64 

54 

1610 

51 

53 

796 

100 
452 



300 

684 

1564 

135 

100 
350 
100 
100 



44 

100 



30 

480 



6o 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 



B — (Continued) 
Beef Broth . . . 



Beef, Dried, Salted, and 
Smoked, E. P. . . 



Beef, Dried, Salted, and 
Smoked, E. P. . . 



Beef Juice 
" Soup 



Beef Liver, E. P.. . 
Beef Marrow 

Beef Roast, Cooked 

" A. P. . 



Beef Steak, Porterhouse 

" " Porterhouse 

" " Rump 

" " Rump 

" " Sirloin 

" " Sirloin 

" " Top of Round 

" Top of Round 



Beef Suet, A. P. 
" A. P. 



Beets (10% Car.) 
" Cooked 

Fresh, E. P 



1 serving 
1 quart 

4 thin 
slices (4 in. 
X 5 in.) 



lib. 



1 serving 
1 cup 



1 tbsp. 
lib. 

1 slice (4 J^ 

xvaxh 

in.) 
1 lb. 

1 serving 

1 lb. 

1 serving 

lib. 

1 serving 

rib. 

1 serving 
1 lb. 

1 in. cube 
lib. 



2 hp. tbsp. 

4 beets (2 

in. diam.) 

1>3 cup 

sliced 



Ozs. 



32 



16 

6 
16 

16 
0.9 

16 

3M 
16 

3H 
16 

3y 2 

16 

3y 2 

16 

0.47 
16 



3.5 

7.GC 



Gms. 

100 
907 

55.5 



453. 



100 
170 



453. 



14.17 
453.6 



25.6 



453.6 

100 

453.6 

100 

453.6 

100 

453.6 

100 

453.6 

13.2 
453.6 



100 
217.1 



Gms. 



1.8 
16.5 



16.66 



136.08 



4.9 
7.4 



92.53 



0.3 

9.9 



5.7 



107.05 

19.1 
86.6 
21.0 
94.8 
16.5 
74.8 
19.5 
88.4 

6.62 
21.32 



1.3 
3.47 



Gms. 

1.0 

9.3 

3.61 



29.48 



0.6 
6.1 



20.41 



13.1 
420.8 



Gms. 



7.3 



125.64 

18.0 
81.2 
13.7 
62.1 
16.1 
73.0 
7.3 
33.1 

10.83 
371.04 



0.1 
0.22 



0.22 



1.81 



1.8 
7.71 



7.7 
21.10 



Calo- 
ries 
16 
149 

100 



817 



25 

43 



584 



120 

3828 



1559 

238 
1077 
207 
938 
211 
957 
144 
652 

100 
3425 



37 

100 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



61 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 


« 

CO 

< 


H 

o 
2 


z 
3 

« 


•< 


OB 

a 

6 s 


a 

£> 
J 
•< 
> 
■J 

a 




B — {Continued) 




Ozs. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Calo- 
ries 


Beets, Fresh, E. P. . . . 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


2.76 


0.45 


44.00 


209 


Beet Greens (5% Car.) 
















" " Cooked 


2 hp. tbsp. 


3.5 


100 


2.1 


0.3 


3.2 


23 


Blackberries (10% Car.) 


















l /2 CUp 


6.10 


173.0 


2.25 


1.73 


18.85 


100 


Blue Fish, E. P. . . . 


1 serving 


3 Y A 


100 


19.4. 


1.2 




88 


. . . 


1 lb. 


16 


453.6 


87.8 


5.4 




401 


Brandy 


1 tbsp. 


Yl 


14.17 








42 


Bran 


1 cup 


2V 2 


71 


7.8 


1.5 


43.4 


218 


Brazil Nuts (10% Car.) 
















Shelled . . 


1 nut 


H 




1.2 


4.7 


0.01 


47 


" " Chopped . 


1 tbsp. 


Z A 




3.6 


14.2 


0.1 


142 


" Shelled, E. P. . 


1 lb. 


16 


453.6 


76.9 


302.8 


31.6 


3162 


Bread, White .... 


1 slice % in. 
thick 


1 


28.35 


2.6 


0.3 


15.0 


73 


White .... 


1 slice 1 in. 
thick or 2 
slices 3^ in. 
thick 


1?5 


39 


3.6 


0.46 


20.39 


100 


" White .... 


lloaf 


12 


340 


31.6 


4.1 


179.3 


881 


" Crumbs (White) 


1 cup 


4# 


136 


12.6 


1.6 


71.7 


352 


" Boston Brown . 


1 small 
slice 


1 


28.35 


1.5 


0.5 


13.3 


64 


" Boston Brown . 


1 slice % in. 
thick 


IK 


51.0 


2.75 


0.92 


24.02 


115 


Gluten .... 


1 slice 


l 


28.35 


8.4 


0.3 


8.5 


70 


" Gluten . . 


1 loaf 


13 


386.5 


114.0 


4.0 


116.3 


957 


Graham .... 


1 slice 


1 


28.35 


2.5 


0.51 


14.7 


74 


Butter 


1 tbsp. 


H 


13.0 


0.13 


11.05 




100 





Hlb.(lcup) 


8 


227 


2.2 


193.0 




1744 


Buttermilk 


1 cup 


8H 


240.9 


7.22 


12 


11.56 


88 



62 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 


a 
a 
p 
m 
< 
a 


a 
2 
3 


g 

s 

o 

X 
PL, 




05 

B 


< 
> 

fa 


B — (Continued) 




Ozs. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Car- 
ries 


Butternuts (5% Car.) 
















E. P. . . . 


4-5 nuts 


0.52 


14.8 


4.13 


9.05 


0.52 


100 


E. P. . . . 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


126.55 


277.60 


15.86 


3086 


Brussels Sprouts (5% Car.) 

C 
Cabbage, (5% Car.) E. P. 


% cup 


2.6 


65 


.97 


.06 


1.9 


12 
















Shredded . . 


5 cups 


11.20 


317.5 


5.08 


0.95 


17.78 


100 


E. P. ... 


1 lb. 


16 


453.6 


7.25 


1.36 


25.40 


143 


Cantaloupe, A. P. 


1 melon 
(4H in. in 
diam.) 


18 


510.2 


1.53 




23.5 


100 


Carrots (10% Car.) 
















E. P 


1 small 


2 


57 


0.5 




4.2 


20 


Cooked, E. P. . . 


2 hp. tbsp. 


3.5 


100 


1.1 


0.4 


9.3 


45 


E. P 


1 lb. 


16 


453.4 


4.99 


1.81 


42.18 


205 


Cauliflower (5% Car.) 
















E. P. . . . 


1 serving 


4 


113 


2.0 


0.6 


5.2 


35 


" 


lib. 


16 


453.4 


8.16 


2.27 


21.32 


138 


Cooked, E. P 


2 hp. tbsp. 


3.5 


100 


1.8 


0.5 


4.7 


33 


Celery (5% Car.) 
















E. P 


1 serving 


2 


57 


0.6 




1.9 


11 


" Uncooked 


6 pieces 4 H 

in. long or 

z /i cup 1 in. 

pieces 


3.5 


100 


1.1 




3.3 


17 


Cellu Flour 


1 lb. 


16 


453.6 










Cheese, American . 


1 tbsp. 


y 2 


14.17 


4.0 


5.0 




62 


" American (Fresh 
















Grated) . . . 


2 tbsp. 


i 


28.35 


8.0 


10.0 




124 


Cottage 


2 tbsp. 


i 


28.35 


5.9 


0.2 


1.2 


31 


" Cream .... 


2 tbsp. 


% 


24 


6.1 


8.1 


0.6 


100 


Neufchatel 


H block 


1 


28.35 


5.3 


7.78 


0.42 


92.8 


Cherries (15% Car.) 
















Stoned 


1 cup 


4.5 


127.57 


1.27 


1.02 


21.3 


100 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



63 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 



C — (Continued) 

Chestnuts (40% Car.) 
Uncooked 



Chicken, E. P [1 serving 

E. P lib. 

Fowl, E. P. . .1 serving 
Fowl, E. P. . 'lib. 



Chocolate, Unsweetened 
Unsweetened 



1 square 
1 lb. 



Clams, E. P 11 serving 

E. P 1 cup 



Clam Bouillon 
Claret (10% Alcohol) 
Cocoa .... 



1 serving 
1 quart 



Cod, Fresh, E. P. . . 
" Fresh, E. P. . . 

Cod Fish, Salt, Boneless 
" Salt, Boneless 



1 tbsp. 

2 tsp. 

1 tbsp. 
lib. 



1 serving 
lib. 



1 serving 
1 lb. 



Condensed Milk, 

Sweetened 2 tbsp. 

Sweetened 1 1 can 

Consomme 1 serving 

1 quart 



Corn (20% Car.) 
" A. P. . . 



1 ear (6 in. 

long) 



Ozs. 



3.5 

3H 
16 

16 



16 

3H 
11.5 

3' 2 
32 



16 



l'i: 



32 



4.5 



Gms. 

100 

100 
453.6 
100 
453.6 

28.35 
453.6 

100 
326.0 

100 
906 



14.17 

3.5 
7 
453.6 

100 
453.6 

57 
453.6 



30. 
453. 



100 
906 



127.5 



Gms. 

6.2 

21.4 
97.5 
19.3 

87.5 

3.6 
58.5 

8.6 
21.19 

0.2 
2.0 



0.76 

15 

97.98 

16.5 
74.8 

15.7 
125.6 



2.7 
36.3 



2.5 
23.0 



1.5 



Gms. 

5.4 

2.5 
11.3 
16.3 
73.9 

13.8 
220.9 



2 = 



Gms. 



42 



».o 
137.4 



1.0 


2.0 


1.3 


13.69 




02 


0.8 


1 6 


1.02 


1.33 


2.0 


2.5 


131.10 


171.00 


0.4 




18 




0.2 




14 




2.54 


16.58 


43.7 


250.6 




0.4 




3.5 


0.50 


9.82 



Calo- 
ries 

243 

108 

492 

224 

1015 

173 
2772 

51 
151 

2 
23 



10 

18 

35 

2256 

70 
315 

64 
515 



100 
1541 



12 

106 



6 4 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 


H 
M 
$t 

00 

< 

a 


Weight 


a 

« 

Ph 


ft 


■ 

B 

'J 

< a 


a 



a 

< 
> 

H 

fa 


C — (Continued) 




Ozs. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Calo- 
ries 


Corn, Canned . 


2 tbsp. 


1 


28.35 


0.79 


0.34 


5.39 


27.8 


" Canned . 


1 cup 


9 


253 


7.8 


3.0 


48.1 


248 


Cornflakes, Toasted . 


iyi cups 


0.99 


27.8 


1.53 


0.42 


22.53 


100 


Cornmeal, Cooked . 


% cup 


6.0 


170.1 


2.5 


0.55 


21.28 


100 


A. P. . . . 


1 tbsp. 


0.33 


9.45 


0.87 


0.18 


7.12 


34 


A. P. . . . 


1 cup 


5 


141.75 


13.05 


2.70 


106.9 


504 




1 lb. 


16 


453.6 


41.73 


8.62 


342.01 


1613 


Cornstarch, Uncooked 


1 tbsp. 


H 


10 






9.5 


38 


Uncooked 


1 cup 


5M 


156 






148.2 


592 


Corn Syrup .... 


1 tbsp. 


1 


28.35 






SO.O 


90 


" " .... 


1 cup 


16 


448 






1280.0 


1440 


Crackers, Graham . 


1 cracker 


Vz 


9.45 


0.94 


0.88 


6.97 


39.5 


Water . . . 


1 cracker 


H 


9.45 


1.2 


0.05 


7.6 


40 


Wheatsworth . 


1 cracker 


.17 


5 


.475 


.385 


3.65 


19.96 


Oyster . . . 




1 


28.35 


3.20 


2.98 


19.^8 


119.5 


Saltine . . . 


1 cracker 


H 


3 


0.4 


.05 


2.4 


15 


Cracker Crumbs 


1 cup 


5 


151 


16.5 


9.0 


110.0 


'588 


Cranberries (10% Car.) 
















" 


2 tbsp. 


1 


28.35 


.11 


.17 


2.81 


13.2 


A. P. . . . 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


1.81 


2.72 


i±m 


211 


Cranberry Jelly 


2 tbsp. 


1.5 


42.5 




0.11 


24. 1 o 


100 


Cream, Thin (18%) 
















" Single x 


1 tbsp. 


H 


14.17 


0.4 


2.8 


0.7 


29 


" Single x ... 


1 cup 


8 


227 


5.6 


41.9 


10.2 


440 


Thick (40%) 
















" Double xx . . . 


1 tbsp. 


H 


14.17 


0.3 


6.0 


0.5 


57 


Thick (40%) 
















" Double xx . 


1 cup 


8 


226.8 


5.0 


90.7 


6.8 


864 


Cucumbers (5% Car.) 
















Fresh, E. P. . 




1 


28.35 


0.2 


.06 


0.8 


5 


Currants (15% Car.) 
















Fresh . . . 


1 cup 


5 


142 


2.1 




18.0 


81 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



65 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 


Measure 


Ej 

n 


a 


z 
a 

H 

O 

e 


< 
fa 


03 

a 

< ~ 


a 

< 
> 

a 

D 
fa 


C — {Continued) 




Ozs. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Calo- 
ries 


Currants, Dried 


1 cup 


8 


227 


5.4 


3.8 


84.0 


728 


D 
















Dandelion Greens (5% Car.) 
















Cooked 


2 hp. tbsp. 


3.5 


100 


2.1 


0.3 


3.2 


23 


Dates, with Stones . 


1 cup 


7 


200 


3.8 


5.0 


140.0 


623 


E 
















Egg, Average, Whole A. P. . 


1 


2 


56.7 


6.74 


5.26 




74 


' Average, Whole E. P. . 


i 


1.76 


50 


6.7 


5.25 




74 


Egg White, Average 


1 


1.2 


33 


4.05 


0.066 




17 


Egg Yolk, Average 


1 


0.6 


17 


2.66 


5.66 




60 


Esrg Plant, (5% Car.) E. P. 




1 


28.35 


0.34 


0.09 


1.44 


7.9 


" E. P. . . . 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


5.44 


1.36 


23.11 


127 


Endive (5% Car.) . . . 

F 
Farina, Uncooked . 




1 


30 


.03 




.78 


4.3 


1 tbsp. 


H 


10 


1.0 


0.1 


7.2 


34 


" Uncooked . 


1 cup 


6 


170 


18.7 


2.3 


129.8 


616 


Figs, Large 


1 fig 


1 


28.35 


1.3 


0.1 


22.2 


95 




1 lb. 


16 


453.6 


19.5 


1.36 


336.5 


1437 


Filberts (10% Car.) 
















Shelled, Chopped . 


1 tbsp. 


H 


6 


0.9 


3.9 


0.8 


42 


" 


1 doz. 


% 


21 


3.3 


13.8 


2.7 


150 


" E. P 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


70.7 


296.2 


58.9 


3185- 


Fish.i Roe (Shad), A. P. . 


1 oz. 


1 


28.35 


5.93 


1.08 


0.74 


36 


Roe (Shad), A. P. . 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


94.72 


17.12 


11.79 


581 


Flounder, Fresh 


1 av. 2 
helping 


SV2 


100 


6.4 


0.3 




30 


Flour, Barley .... 


1 tbsp. 


% 


17.01 


1.78 


.37 


12.38 


53 


" Barley . . . .1 


1 cup 


8 


227 


19.0 


2.5 


174.3 


796 



1 All fish listed under their various names. 

2 Average Portion. 



66 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 


6 

•< 

a 


Eh 
W 

2 


o 
« 
Ph 


1 


05 

a 


a 
p 


F — (Continued) 




Ozs. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Calo- 
ries 


Flour, Cellu . . . 


1 lb. 


16 


453.6 










" Gluten 




1 tbsp. 


H 


8 


3.4 


.1 


3.4 


29 


Gluten 




1 cup 


5 


142 


60.0 


2.3 


63.0 


512 


" Gluten 




lib. 


16 


453.6 


191.0 


7.3 


200.0 


1629 


Graham 




1 tbsp. 


H 


8 


1.2 


0.2 


5.7 


30 


" Graham 




1 cup 


5 


142 


20.2 


3.2 


101.2 


509 


" Rice . 




1 tbsp. 


H 


7 


0.6 


0.5 


5.1 


27 


Rice . 




1 cup 


4H 


128 


10.9 


7.8 


86.8 


461 


" Rye . 




1 tbsp. 


H 


8 


0.5 




6.3 


28 


" Rye . 




1 cup 


5 


142 


9.6 


1.3 


111.5 


496 


" Roller Process . 


1 tbsp. 


H 


8 


0.9 




6.0 


28 


" Roller Process . 


1 cup 


4H 


126 


15.2 


3.2 


84.8 


445 


" Roller Process . 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


50.80 


4.53 


339.75 


1603 


" Soy Bean 


1 tbsp. 


H 


4 


0.35 


0.15 


0.08 


30 


" Soy Bean 


1 cup 


4 


64 


5.6 


2.4 


1.28 


480 


" Wheat Entire . . 
G 
Gelatin, Granulated 


1 lb. 


16 


453.6 


50.80 


4.53 


339.75 


1603 


1 tbsp. 


Mo 


8.5 


7.8 






31 


" Granulated 


1 box 


l'/o 


34 


31.1 






125 


Shredded . . . 


H box 


H 


17 


15.6 






62 


Gingersnap 




l 


28.35 


1.84 


2.44 


21.55 


116 


" 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


29.48 


39.0 


344.6 


1848 


" 




0.86 


24.5 


1.6 


2.11 


18.6 


100 


Gluten Noodles 


1 cup 


3M 


100 


45.0 


4.2 


32.5 


350 


Gooseberries (10% Car.) . 




8 


226.8 


.9 




27 


144 


Grapefruit (5% Car.) . 


X A medium 


7.5 


212.8 


1.72 


0.45 


22.10 


10) 


Grapes, Concord, A. P. 


1 serving 


3.5 


100 


1.0 


1.2 


14.4 


71 


" Concord, A. P. 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


4.54 


5.44 


65.32 


328 


Grapes, Malaga 


1 doz. 


2 


57 


0.7 


0.9 


10.8 


55 


" Malaga 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


4.5 


5.4 


65.3 


328 


Grapenuts 


3 tbsp 


0.95 


27.0 


3.11 


0.27 


21.33 


100 




1 cup 


5.0 


141.75 


16.3 


1.40 


111.95 


526 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



67 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 


pa 
B 

X 

< 
m 


Weight 


55 

3 

h 
O 
K 


Eh 


9) 

m 


•< 
> 

B 


G— {Continued) 




Ozs. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Calo- 
ries 


Grape Juice .... 


1 tbsp. 


H 


14.17 






3.8 


15 


" " 


1 cup 


8 


227 






60.0 


240 


Greens (5% Car.) 
















Cooked .... 


2 hp. tbsp. 


4 


113 


2.3 


0.3 


3.6 


27 


H 
















Haddock, E. P. ... 


1 serving 


3V 2 


100 


17.2 


0.3 




72 


E. P. ... 


1 lb. 


16 


453.6 


77.9 


1.3 




324 


Halibut, E. P 


1 serving 


SV2 


100 


18.6 


5.2 




121 


E. P 


1 lb. 


16 


453.6 


84.3 


23.5 




549 


Ham, Fresh (med. fat.) . 


1 serving 


3.5 


100 


15.5 


29. 




321 


Smoked, A. P. . . 


Slice (4% 
in. X 4 in. 
X V 8 in.) 


1.25 


35.4 


7.15 


7.93 




100 


Smoked, A. P. 


1 lb. 


16 


453.6 


91.62 


101.61 




1281 


Hickory Nuts (10% Car), 
















" Chopped 


1 tbsp. 


Yi. 




2.1 


9.5 


1.6 


101 


" Chopped 


X cup 


\y 2 




6.5 


28.5 


4.8 


303 


" Shelled, E. P. 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


69.7 


305.6 


51 S 


3238 


Hominy, Cooked 


1 hp. tbsp. 


H 


14.17 


1.2 


0.1 


11.2 


50 





1 cup 


oV 2 


157 


13.0 


1.0 


110.0 


565 


Hominy Grits, Cooked 


1 cup 


9 


255.2 


3.25 


0.22 


31.5 


141 


Uncooked 


1 cup 


■oV 2 


155.9 


12.93 


0.93 


123.1 


553 


Honey 


1 tbsp. 


1 


28.35 


0.1 




23.0 


92 


Huckleberries (15% Car.) . 

J 
Jell-O 




3.5 


100 


0.6 


0.6 


16.6 


74 


1 serving 


H 


16 


1.9 




14.4 


66 


" 


1 box 


sy 2 


100 


11.2 




86.4 


395 


K 
















Kohl-rabi (10% Car.) 
















Fresh . . . 


% cup 


3.45 


98 


1.96 


0.098 


5.39 


30 



68 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 


a 

B 

00 

a 


K 
2 

a 


2 

O 

« 


Z 


■ 

H 

SB 

< a 


a 

■< 
> 

B 

t> 


K — (Continued) 




Ozs. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Calo- 
ries 


Kumyss 


1 qt. 


34?4 


975 


2.2 


2.1 


1.5 


328 


. L 
















Lactose (Sugar of Milk) 






1 








4 


(Sugar of Milk) . 


1 tsp. (av. 
size) 


n 


3 






3.5 


14 


(Sugar of Milk) . 


1 tbsp. 


H 


10 






10.0 


40 


Lady Fingers .... 


3 


H 


14.17 


1.24 


.70 


10 


51.2 


Lamb Chops .... 


2 medium 
size 


sy 2 


100 


18.7 


28.3 




329 


" " . . » . 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


84.8 


128.3 




1494 


" Roast .... 


Slice S}4 x 


1.8 


51 


10 


6.6 




100 


Lard 


1 tbsp. 


H 


14 




14.0 




127 


" ....... 


lib. 


16 


453.6 




484.0 




4083 


Leeks (5% Car.) . . . 




1 


30 


.3 


.12 


1.8 


10 


Lemon Juice (10% Car.) 
















" " . . . . 


1 lemon (3 


m 


42 






4.2 


17 




tbsp.) 






• 








Lentils, Dried, A. P. . . 


2)4 tbsp. 


1.01 


28.7 


7.37 


0.29 


16.98 


100 


Dried, A. P. . . 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


116.57 


4.54 


268.52 


1581 


Lettuce (5% Car.) 
















" 


1 head 


8 


227 


2.3 


0.5 


5.7 


36 


Lobster, E. P 


1 serving 


W 2 


100 


18.1 


1.1 


0.5 


84 


E. P 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


82.0 


4.9 


2.2 


382 


M 
















Macaroni (20% Car., 
















A. P. ... 


1 cup 


3H 


108 


14.7 


1.0 


81.1 


392 


A. P. . . . 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


60.78 


4.08 


336.12 


1624 


" Cooked . 


1 cup 


5.2 


147.4 


3.5 


0.22 


20.75 


100 


Macaroons 


2 


0.83 


23.6 


1.54 


3.59 


15.39 


100 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 



M — {Continued) 



Mackerel, E. P. . . . 

E. P. . . . 

Salted, E. P.. . 

Salted . . . 

Malted Milk . . . . 

Mayonnaise .... 

Milk, Condensed, Sweetened 

" Condensed, Sweetened 

" Condensed, Sweetened 

" Evaporated 

" Evaporated 

" Skimmed . 

" Skimmed . 

" Skimmed . 

" Whole (4% fat) . 

" Whole (4% fat) . 

" Whole (4% fat) . 

Top Milk (7% fat) . . 
" " (7% fat) . . 

Molasses 



Muskmelons, E. P. . 

Mushrooms (10% Car.) 



Mutton Chops 



N 



Noodles, Gluten 

O 
Oatmeal, Granulated 



1 serving 
1 lb. 

1 serving 
1 lb. 

1 tbsp. 

1 tbsp. 

1 tsp. 
1H tbsp. 
1 can 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 quart 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 quart 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

l A (small) 



11 (1 in. in 
diameter) 



1 serving 
lib. 



1 tbsp. 



Ozs. 

16 
3'A 
16 

y 2 

H 

Ho 
l 

16 

H 

8 

Ho 

8% 

34?£ 

Jio 

8H 

34?i 

.7 
8.5 



11 

8 

3.5 



3V 2 
16 



3 l A 



M 



Gms. 

100 
453.6 
100 
453.6 

14.17 

15 

11 

28.35 
453.6 

17.01 
226.8 

20 
244 
975 

20 
244 
975 

19.8 
240 

27 
317 

226.8 



100 



100 
453.6 



100 



14.17 



Gms. 

18.7 
84.8 
17.3 

78.5 

2.3 

.35 

0.9 
2.3 

36.3 
1.6 

21.75 

.7 

8.3 

33.1 
06 
8.0 

32.2 

.61 
7.4 

0. 

7. 



1.36 



3.5 



16.0 
72.5 



45.0 



1.8 



Gms. 

7.1 

32.1 

26.4 

119.7 

1.2 

11. 

1.0 
2.7 

43.7 
1.6 

21.0 

0.7 
2.9 
0.8 
9.3 
39.0 

1.5 
18.2 



0.4 



33.1 
150.1 



4.2 



0.9 



§2 



Gms. 



9.6 



6.0 

15.6 

250.6 

1.9 
25.4 

1.0 
12.5 
49.7 

1.0 
12.2 
48.8 



.91 



11. 



18.7 
219.7 



Calo- 
ries 
139 
629 
307 

1392 

61 
100 

37 

96 
1541 

27 

379 

7 

89 
358 

11 
169 
675 

19.6 
238 

77 



21.12 



6.8 



90 



4.-. 



32.5 



362 
1640 



434 



7o 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



Food Material, 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 


« 
p 

to 

< 
3 


M 

2 


jzj 

a 

o 
« 


< 


n 
a 
B 


a 

< 
> 

a 

& 


O — (Continued) 




Ozs. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Calo- 
ries 


Oatmeal, Granulated . 


1 cup 


5V 2 


156 


25.1 


11.2 


105.2 


623 


" Cooked . 


1 cup 


7.9 


223.9 


4.25 


1.77 


16.75 


100 


Gruel . . . 


l A cup 


4 


113.4 


1.3 


.45 


7.3 


38.4 


Oats, Rolled .... 


1 tbsp. 


H 


5 


0.7 


0.3 


2.7 


16 


" Rolled . . . . 


1 cup 


2V 2 


71 


11.8 


5.2 


46.9 


282 


Rolled, Cooked . . 


1 cup 


7.9 


224 


4.2 


1.8 


17. 


100 


Okra (5% Car.) 
















" Canned .... 


% cup 


.4 


115 


1.6 


.23 


7.47 


38 


Olive Oil 


1 tbsp. 


% 


11.1 




11.1 




100 


Olives (20% fat) 
















Ripe Olives . 


2 or 3 


H 


14.17 


0.1 


2.8 


1.2 


31 


Onions (10% Car.) 
















" 


1 serving 


4 


113 


1.8 


0.3 


11.2 


56 


E. P 


3-4 medium 


7.24 


205.4 


3.30 


0.62 


20.33 


100 


A. P 


1 lb. 


16 


453.6 


7.26 


1.36 


44.80 


220 


Orange, E. P. (10% Car.) 
















" 


1 medium 


5 


142 


1.2 


0.3 


16.4 


73 


Orange Juice .... 


1 tbsp. 
1 cup 


8 


14.17 

227 






1.6 
25.6 


6 
104 


Oysters 


2 


1 


28.35 


1.7 


0.3 


1.0 


14 




1 cup 


sy 2 


240 


14.4 


3.1 


7.9 


118 




(solid) 














P 
















Parsnips (15% Car.) 

E. P 


1 medium 


i 


28.35 


0.45 


0.14 


3.83 


18 


A. P 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


7.30 


2.27 


61.24 


294 


Peaches (10% Car.) 

A. P 


1 medium 


4 


113 


0.8 


0.1 


11.3 


50 


" Canned 


2 large 
halves and 


7.50 


213.2 


1.49 


0.21 


23.03 


100 




3 tbsp. juice 













ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



7i 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 


a 
« 
B 

m 
a 


n 

2 
5 


a 

O 

« 


1 


00 

2 « 

05 a 


K 
> 

a 
p 


P — (Continued) 




Ozs. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Colo- 

ries 


Peaches, Dried .... 


1 cup 


3 


85 


1.4 


1.8 


56.2 


247 


Peach Juice .... 


1 tbsp. 


Y2 


14.17 






1.1 


5 


*' " .... 


1 cup 


8 


227 






17.6 


80 


Peanuts, E. P 


1 kernel 


0.3 


0.89 


.22 


.34 


.21 


5 


Shelled . . . 


1 cup 


5 


142 


36.5 


54.7 


34.5 


777 


Peanut Butter .... 


1 tbsp. 


H 


16.5 


4.85 


7.7 


2.83 


100 


Pears (15% Car.) 
















" 


1 medium 


3 


85.05 


.51 


.42 


12. 


53.7 


" Canned .... 


2 halves, 
2 tbsp. 
juice 


3.2 


91 


.35 


.3 


15.5 


66 


Peas (15% Car.) Green . . 


1 serving 














" Fresh, E. P. . . . 


Yi cup 


4 


113 


7.7 


0.5 


19.6 


114 


" Canned . 


1 cup 


QH 


184 


6.6 


0.4 


18.0 


100 


" Split, Dried . . . 


2 tbsp. 


l 


28.1 


6.92 


0.28 


17.4 


100 


Pecans (10% Car.) 
















" Shelled . . . . 


1 cup 


bYi 


156 


15.0 


110.0 


23.8 


1145 


Pineapple (10% Car.) 
















Fresh, E. P. 




8 


227 


0.9 


0.7 


22.0 


98 


" Canned . 


1 slice 


in 


53 


0.2 


0.3 


19.3 


81 


" Canned . 


1 cup 


10H 


290 


1.2 


2.0 


10.6 


444 


" Canned . 


1 can 


24 


680 


2.6 


4.8 


247.0 


1044 


Plums (20% Car.) 
















" E. P 


3 large 


3.5 


100 


1.0 




20.1 


84 


Popcorn, A. P . 


Y% cup 


0.6 


17.01 


2.75 


1.22 


19.5 


100 


" Popped . 


\Yi cups 


0.6 


17.01 


2.75 


1.22 


19.5 


100 


Pork.Loin Chops, Lean, E. P. 




1.4 


40 


8.05 


7.53 




100 


" Tenderloin, A. P. 


large serv'g 


3.5 


100 


18.9 


13.0 




193 


Port Wine (10% Alcohol) 


















1 tbsp. 


H 


14.17 








10 



72 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



Food Material. 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 


w 

K 

B 
< 


a 



2 


w 
f- 
o 
« 


1 


B 

a 

Be 


B 

< 
> 

p 


P — (Continued) 
Potato Chips, Cooked . 


8-10 large 


Ozs. 
0.62 


Gms. 
17.5 


Gms. 
1.19 


Gms. 
6.93 


Gms. 
8.16 


Calo- 
ries 
100 


Cooked . . 


pieces 
1 lb. 


16 


453.6 


30.85 


180.50 


211.80 


2596 


Potatoes (20% Car.) 

White, E. P. . . 

White, E. P. . . 

" Sweet .... 

Sweet, E. P. . . 


1 medium 
1 lb. 

1 medium 
1 lb. 


sy 2 

16 
3V 2 
16 


100 
453.6 
100 
453.6 


2.2 
9.93 

1.8 
8.16 


0.1 
0.45 
0.7 
3.18 


18.4 

83.46 

27.4 

124.29 


83 
378 
123 
558 


Prunes (20% Car.) 


3 prunes 
1 cup 


1 
5 


28.35 
142 


0.5 
2.5 




17.6 
88.1 


72 
363 


Puffed Rice 


1 cup 


0.75 


21.26 


1.7 


0.063 


16.79 


75 


Puffed Wheat . . . . 


1 cup 


0.6 


17.01 


2.31 


0.41 


12.67 


60 


Pumpkin (10% Car.) 

Fresh, E. P. . . 


1 cup 


6H 


184.2 


1.84 


.184 


9.57 


48 


Q 
















Quail 


1 serving 


3H 


100 


21.8 


8.0 




159 


R 
















Radishes (5% Car.) 

A. P 


12 red but- 


4.3 


121.9 


1.09 


.12 


4.88 


25 


Raisins, E. P 


ton 
1 doz. 
1 cup 


H 

5 


9.45 
142 


0.24 
3.3 


0.31 
4.3 


7.19 
97.1 


33 

440 


Raspberries (15% Car.) 

Fresh Black . 
Fresh Red 
Juice . 


1 cup 
1 cup 

y 2 cup 


5 

8 
4 


142 

226.8 

113.5 


2.4 
2.26 


1.4 


17.8 

28.57 

11.3 


94 

114 

45 


Rhubarb (5% Car.) 


% cup in 1 


1 


28.35 


0.2 


0.2 


1.0 


6 





in. pieces 


16 


453.6 


2.72 


3.17 


16.33 


105 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



73 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 



R — (Continued) 

Rice, (20% Car.) 
" Raw . 
" Raw . . . 
" Raw . 
" Boiled . . 

Rum .... 

S 

Salmon, E. P., Fresh 
Fresh . . 
Canned, E. P 
Canned, E. P 



Saltines 

Sardines, Canned . 

Canned, E. P 

Sauerkraut (5% Car.) 

Scallops, A. P. . . . 

Shad, E. P 

" E. P 

Shad Roe . 

Sherry 

Shredded Wheat . . 

Shrimps, E. P . 



1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 lb. 

6 level 
tbsp. 

1 tbsp. 



1 serving 
lib. 

1 can 
(1 lb.) 

1 wafer 
1 lb. 

1 small 

serving 

1 small box 

(8-sar- 

dines) 

% cup 
packed 

1 cup 

1 serving 
lib. 



1 serving 
1 tbsp. 
1 biscuit 
1 cup 



Ozs. Gms. 



H 



sy 2 

16 

i 

16 



16 
1 
3.5 

4.05 



3^ 
16 

3V 2 

y 2 

0.97 
6.3 



14.17 
200 
453.6 

56.7 



14.17 



100 
453.6 

28.35 
453.6 



3 

453.6 



28.35 
100 



181.4 

100 
453.6 

100 

14.17 

27.4 
181.4 



Gms. 

1.1 
16.0 
36.02 

1.1 



22.0 
99.6 
6.18 

98.87 



0.4 
48.08 



6.72 
23 



1.95 



26.84 



18.8 
85.1 



20.9 



3.51 

45.42 



Gms. 



0.6 
1.36 

0.05 



12.8 
57.9 
3.43 

54.88 



0.5 
57.60 



3.43 
19.7 



0.57 



0.18 



9.5 

43.0 



3.8 



0.49 
1.8 



6* 



Gms. 

11.2 
158.0 
358.34 

11.2 



2.4 
310.70 



4.37 



6.16 



2.0 



20.59 
0.36 



Calo- 
ries 

50 

800 

1591 

50 



38 



203 
922 
55.6 

889 



15 
1954 

57.7 

269 

30 

133 

161 
729 

128 

13 

100 

200 



74 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



Food Material, 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 



°2 



S — (Continued) 
Soy Bean Flour. 



Spinach (5% Car.) 
" Cooked 



Fresh, E. P 



Squabs 



Squash (10% Car.) 



Fresh, A. P 




Strawberries (10% Car.) . 
E. P . . . 
Fresh, E. P . 


Strawberry Juice 












Sugar, Granulated 
" Granulated 
" Granulated 
" Loaf . 




" Loaf . 




" Powdered 
" Powdered 




Sugar of Milk * . 





1 tbsp. 
1 cup 



1 serving 
4 cup 
lib. 

1 serving 



2 hp. tbsp. 
lib. 

1 serving 
1 cup 
lib. 

1 cup 

1 tbsp. 
1 lb. 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
lib. 
1 lump 

(large) 
1 lump 

(small) 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

H tbsp. 
1 tsp. 
1 tbsp. 



Ozs. 

H 

4 

4 

16 
3H 



3H 
16 



16 



X2 

16 

K 

Vs 



Gms. 



113 

453.( 
100 



100 
453.6 

113 
170 
453.6 

227 

14.17 
453.6 

13.12 
210 
453.6 
7.6 

3.8 

14.17 

184 

1 

3 

10 



Gms. 

0.35 
5.6 



2.36 
9.52 
16.3 



1.4 
3.17 



21 



Gms. 

0.15 
2.4 



0.36 
1.36 
36.2 



0.5 
0.91 

0.7 
1.0 
2.72 



11.6 

371.0 



Gms. 

.08 
1.28 



3.64 
14.50 



9.0 

20.41 

7.9 
11.9 
33.57 

11.4 



13.12 
210.0 
453.60 
7.6 



3.8 



14.17 
184.0 



3.5 
10.0 



1 For practical purposes, the milk sugar may be measured in a medicine glass. Each 
measured ounce equals 18 grams in weight. If milk sugar is added to water in the 
proportion of 24 grams to 3 c.c. and the water brought to the boiling point the milk 
sugar is completely dissolved. Such a solution made daily or just before use will be 
found convenient in administering the diet. (Coleman) 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



75 



Food Material 


URE 






g 




a 




(Uncooked, unless 








62 


> 


otherwise stated) 


< 
1 







1 

Pn 


< 
fa 


6 s 


1 


S — (Continued) 




Ozs. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Calo- 
ries 


Sweetbreads 


1 serving 


3H 


100 


16.8 


12.1 




176 




lib. 


16 


453.6 


76.2 


54.8 




798 


" 


1 pair 


8 


227 


38.1 


27.4 




399 




(med. size) 














Syrup, Corn 


1 tbsp. 


1 


28.35 






80. 


90 


Corn 

T 
Tapioca, Pearled, Raw- 


1 cup 


16 


44S 






1280 


1440 


1 tbsp. 


H 


14.17 






12.3 


49 


Pearled, Raw 


1 cup 


sy 2 


180 


0.7 




158.4 


640 


Minute, Raw 


1 tbsp. 


H 


14.17 






12.2 


49 


Toast 


1 slice (av. 
size) 


l 


28.35 


2.6 


0.3 


15.0 


73 


Tomato (5% Car.) 
















Fresh, A. P. . . 


1 medium 


5 


142 


1.3 


0.55 


5.5 


33 


Fresh, A. P. . . 


1 lb. 


16 


453.6 


4.08 


1.81 


17.69 


103 


Canned 


1 tbsp. 
(raw) 


V2 


14.17 


0.2 




0.6 


4 


Canned, Cooked . 


2 l / 2 hp. tbsp 


3.5 


100 


1.2 


0.2 


4.0 


23 


Canned 


1 cup 


8 


227 


2.7 


0.5 


9.0 


51 


Trout, E. P 


1 serving 


sy 2 


100 


17.8 


10.3 




164 


" E. P 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


80.6 


46.7 




743 


Turnip (10% Car.) 
















Cooked . 


2 hp. tbsp. 


Wl 


100 


1.3 


0.2 


8.1 


39 


Fresh, E. P. . . 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


5.89 


0.91 


36.74 


179 


Turkey, Cooked, E. P. 


2 large 
slices 


3 l A 


100 


21.1 


22.9 




290 


A. P. . . . . 


1 lb. 


16 


453.6 


95.7 


103.9 




1317 


V 
















Veal Loin, Medium Fat, 


1 slice (2X 


2H 


66.15 


10.98 


9.95 




100 


A. P. . . . 


2%X^in.) 














Vegetables i .... 


















1 Vegetables are listed under their various names. Note footnote, page 58 



7 6 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



Food Material, 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 


m 
« 
p 

00 

■< 
W 


K 

2 
3 


a 

H 

O 

« 




00 

H 

< a 


B 

< 
> 

B 


W 




Ozs. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Calo- 
ries 


Walnuts, Black (10% Car.) 
















" E. P 


1 lb. 


16 


453.6 


125.19 


255.38 


53.06 


3012 


English (15% Car.) 
















" E. P 


1 meat 




1 


.1 


0.6 


0.1 


7 


English, E. P. . . 


8-16 meats 


0.5 


14.17 


2.61 


9.13 


1.84 


100 


" English, E. P . . 


1 cup 


5V 2 


156 


25.8 


98.8 


25.1 


1093 


" English, E. P. . . 


1 cup 

chopped 
meats 


3 


85.05 


15.66 


54.77 


11.07 


600 


" English, E. P . . 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


83.46 


292.10 


58.79 


3199 


Watercress (5% Car.) . . 


H cup 


.35 


10 


.07 


.05 


.37 


2.2 


Watermelon, E. P.. . . 




11. 7 


331.1 


1.32 


0.66 


22.19 


100 


Wheat, Shredded . . . 




1 


28.35 


3.43 


.51 


21.31 


103.6 


Wheat Flakes . . . . 


1 cup 


1 


28.35 


3.80 


.39 


21.06 


103 


Wheatsworth Crackers 


1 cracker 


.17 


5 


.475 


.385 


3.65 


19.96 


Wheyi 


1 cup 


6M 


184 


1.8 


0.5 


9.3 


50 


Whiskey (43% Alcohol) 






50c.c. 








152 


White Fish, E. P. . . . 


1 serving 


3H 


100 


22.9 


6.5 




150 


" M E. P. . . . 
Z 
Zwieback 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


103.8 


29.4 




681 


3 small . . . 


1 


28.35 


2.77 


2.80 


20.83 


199.6 




slices 















1 Approximately 50 calories; depends on how much food value is left in whey after 
straining. 



CHAPTER IV 
FOOD SANITATION 

SELECTION AND CARE OF FOOD ADULTERATION OF FOOD 

Selection and Care of Food 

Selection of Food. — All foods administered to the sick 
must be of "good quality" and "known purity." That is, 
they should be bought in the freshest and cleanest condition, 
placed in clean containers and handled with clean hands. 
Special attention to fly pollution is necessary — buy only from 
reliable dealers where food has been kept in "properly- 
screened" stores or markets. The windows in kitchen and 
room where food is served must be properly screened and 
flypaper and similar precautions employed. Purchase foods 
where you are sure that your desire for purest and best foods 
will be respected. 

Care of Food. — The care of food between the time of pur- 
chase and cooking and that of cooking and serving is highly 
important for two reasons. First, it represents an economic 
loss which we can ill afford. If good food is purchased but 
poorly prepared or badly cared for it means that the cost of 
food as eaten may be easily two or three times the purchase 
cost. One needs only to examine the garbage pails of some of 
our public institutions to be convinced of the force of this 
statement. Second, if good food is contaminated with germ 
life it may easily lead to food poisoning. 

Dust from city streets abounds in germ life, therefore 
vegetables and certain fruits should be washed in one or 
several waters. To be absolutely safe all fruits and vegetables 
should be cooked before serving. 

77 



78 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Cooking thoroughly, broiling, roasting or boiling, kills most 
of the bacteria but is usually ineffectual in removing the 
products of decomposition or in making them ineffective. 
Ordinary boiling does not kill all kinds of bacteria; most 
are readily killed but some resist even prolonged boiling. 
Bacillus botulinus is easily killed by heat, while bacillus para- 
typhlis produces a poison which cannot be eliminated even 
by boiling a long time. Food should be eaten as soon as con- 
venient after cooking and should not be kept for long in- 
tervals. If necessary to keep food over, particularly in hot 
weather, it should be cooked again just before serving. 1 

Contamination of Food. — Food exposed to dust, insects, 
etc., may become contaminated with disease germs without 
becoming spoiled. The micro-organisms, which grow at such 
a rate as quickly to become visible to the naked eye, are 
chiefly molds. These are not always harmful to man and 
their chief significance is that they give to food a piquant 
flavor and cause a certain amount of disintegration. They 
attack food which is stored in dark, damp places. Certain 
butchers hang steaks until they become covered with mold, 
making the meat tender and highly flavored. These changes 
are due largely to the bacteria of putrefaction which are 
also present, thriving under the same conditions as molds. 1 

In the case of substances which have a natural protective 
covering, it is highly important that this should not be 
broken in handling. Thus when fruits and vegetables are 
bruised the pulp is quickly attacked by micro-organisms and 
local changes occur, resulting in economic waste, since such 
articles can be only partly utilized. 

Foods should be stored in places which admit plenty of 
sunlight and air, for these elements tend to antagonize the 
growth of molds and putrefactive bacteria. Ice is a valuable 
aid in this sort of cleanliness, for it induces a temperature 
unfavorable for the growth of micro-organisms. 

Food Poisoning. — Food poisoning is due to the presence 

1 Carter, Howe & Mason, "Nutrition and Chemical Dietetics," Lea & Febiger, 
Phila., Pa. 



SELECTION AND CARE OF FOOD 79 

or formation of unusual chemical substances which may be 
present alike in raw, cooked, or frozen foods, and in fresh 
and preserved foods. Most cases of food poisoning are 
caused by bacterial infection of the food either before buying 
or after cooking. For example, decayed chicken, and the use 
of rotten eggs in cookery by bakers has sometimes caused 
severe poisoning. Personal susceptibility is often a factor 
in fish-poisoning. Sound, fresh food, thoroughly cooked 
and eaten at once seldom causes poisoning under any condi- 
tions. The articles which the ordinarily careful nurse must 
bear in mind in this connection are preserved foods of all 
kinds, chicken, shell fish, and milk products, the latter being 
of most signficance, since milk, fresh cream, ice cream, etc., 
are often given freely to invalids. 

Special care in order to avoid fly pollution is neces- 
sary because of the part played by this insect in causing 
typhoid fever, cholera, dysentery, etc. Both the feet and 
the excrement of flies are sources of contamination. Cooking 
and careful washing of food that is to be eaten raw are our 
principal safeguards in respect to food as it is brought to 
the house by the dealer in foodstuffs. Then, too, the food 
when ready for consumption may be freshly contaminated. 
In order to avoid this, food must be carefully protected and 
covered until served. Flies are much more likely to abound 
in neighborhoods where manure, garbage, etc., are allowed to 
accumulate. These are more dangerous than ordinary dust. 

If typhoid is epidemic in a neighborhood it is well to 
avoid raw food entirely, just as we avoid unsterilized water 
and milk. 

Preserving of Food. — "In health the small amount of 
preservative used in certain canned and bottled foods would 
probably have little if any effect on the individual, but in 
sickness this is not always the case. . . . Not less than a 15 
per cent, solution of salt should be used as brine for salting, 
and smoking food must be done very thoroughly, or in either 
case the bacteria will not be destroyed." 



80 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Foods to be preserved should be perfectly fresh, and the 
five following methods are in general use : 

1. Dehydration. 

2. Drying. 

3. Exclusion of air, as dipping in wax and canning. 

4. Freezing and cold storage. 

5. Antiseptics, as smoking, salt, vinegar, alcohol, syrups, 
benzoate of soda, salicylic acid, etc., etc. The advis- 
ability of their use, even in minute quantities, is ques- 
tionable. 

Concentration. — Most foods can be reduced to a dry or 
otherwise condensed state without loss of nutritive value or 
danger of decomposition. Sugar, oil, starch and many 
cereal products are already in a state of concentration. 
Powdered milk, condensed milk and meat, egg powder, etc., 
are coming more and more into use as have already dried and 
evaporated fruits and vegetables. The chief use of many 
condensed products as mainstays will doubtless be in cases 
of temporary shortage of fresh foods, due to devastating 
storms, strikes, etc. 

Predigcstion of Food. — Much is written against the use of 
predigested foods as a steady diet for the well. The ob- 
jection seems to rest on the theory that such foods give the 
digestive fluids and the muscles of the digestive organs very 
little to do, so that a sort of sluggishness is set up. It can- 
not be said truthfully that these claims have ever been backed 
up by facts. No one denies that thorough mastication is a 
great advantage and with thorough mastication much of the 
starch is predigested in the mouth or, after swallowing, in 
the fundus of the stomach. Predigested proteins are not used 
as staple foods, and as little is gained by the fine masticat- 
ing of flesh foods, the stomach has plenty of work in digest- 
ing animal proteins. If there is fat in the diet the pancreas 
can never fall into a state of disuse. Hence the outcry 
against partially digested breakfast foods does not seem 
to be justified on this score. It is true, however, that their 



ADULTERATION OF FOOD 81 

lack of flavor and the soft and pulpy character of some of 
them are recognized as possible drawbacks, for semi-solid 
and pultaceous foods are seldom thoroughly masticated, while 
their insipidity does not flavor a flow of digestive fluids. If 
adherence to these foods causes sluggish digestion and in- 
ability to deal with food in more natural condition, one 
would impute this not to predigestion, but to the fact that 
the tastelessness and the ease with which they may be bolted 
are the real factors which bring about a passive state of the 
digestive functions. 

In a diet for the ill, the dyspeptic, the convalescent, etc., 
there can be no possible objection to predigestion ; on the con- 
trary, it is highly desirable up to a certain extent. But just 
as soon as possible the patient should return to foods in the 
natural state, bearing in mind that a great majority of 
patients, even the acutely ill, thrive on food which in theory 
would be hazardous to say the least. Apparently hopeless 
cases of sepsis have been rescued by placing patients on food 
suited only for the healthy. Such patients must, however, 
have a natural appetite and be able to tolerate the food. 

Adulteration of Food 

Adulteration of Food. — Adulterated food should never be 
served to patients suffering from pathological conditions. 
All articles should be of best quality and purchased from a 
reliable dealer. Special care should be taken as to the purity 
of milk, butter, cream and canned goods. 

"Since the passage of the National Pure Food and Drugs 
Act, giving to the United States Government authority to 
enforce stringent laws against the adulteration and mis- 
branding of foods which enter into interstate commerce, and 
the more rigid enforcement of similar state laws which 
regulate these matters in many of the states, a great burden 
has been lifted from the shoulders of the buyer. This leg- 
islation has enormously decreased the deceptions formerly 
practiced by some manufacturers, and since it insures that 



82 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

the name and description on bottle and package shall not 
misrepresent the contents, the buyer, if he knows what he 
wants, will have no difficulty in obtaining it, while the hon- 
est manufacturers and dealers (and they have without 
doubt always outnumbered the others) will also be protected. 
Table of Common Adulteration of Foodstuffs and tests for 
of the Bureau of Chemistry 1 of this Department." 2 For 
Table of Common Adulteration of Foodstuffs and tests for 
same, note Farmer's Bulletin No. 25, of the United States 
Department of Agriculture, Division of Chemistry, Wash- 
ington, D. C. 

Canned Goods. — Canned goods should never be used if 
the can is seen to have a convex top, as this is always due to 
imperfect sterilization, with resulting fermentation and 
putrefaction, the bulging being caused by the gas under 
pressure. These cans are called "swells" or "blows". 
All canned foods should be thoroughly cooked through be- 
fore serving, to kill any possible organisms and if the 
entire canful is not used at one meal, the balance should be 
kept in stone or enamel ware on ice and not in the can. 3 It is 
well not to purchase cans that appear old, rusty, and soiled, 
as they are apt to be left over stock and are liable to be bad. 4 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 

1. What precautions are advised in the selection of food, its care 
before using and its preparation for the table? What is the 
importance of this care? 

2. State five methods by which food may be preserved. 

3. Discuss the value of predigested foods. 

4. What precautions are advised in the use of canned goods? 

5. What causes food poisoning and how may we guard against it? 

6. Why should food be cooked? 



1 U. S. Dept. Agriculture Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 100; Year Book 
1907, p. 321. 

2 U. S. Dept. Agriculture Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 325, p. 19. 

3 According to the research laboratory of the National Canners' Asso. there is 
less danger resulting from leaving food in the can after opening than from 
transfer to other dishes as the can is more likely to be sterile than household 
utensils. 

4 Carter, Howe & Mason, "Nutrition and Chemical Studies," Lea & Febiger, 
Phila., Pa. 



CHAPTER V 

METHODS OF COOKING 

Cooking is that part of the preparation of food for eating 
which involves the application of heat. 

The reasons for cooking food are : 

i. To make it more palatable and so stimulate appetite. 

2. To increase its digestibility by softening tough fibers 
and by bringing about slight chemical changes by heat. 

3. To destroy harmful bacteria and parasites sometimes 
found in raw food. 

Success in cookery depends upon the quality of the food 
material, upon accurate measurements, upon care in com- 
bining ingredients, upon the method and time allowed and 
upon a knowledge of food composition. 

Selection of Food. — Care should always be taken to choose 
foods of good quality — those which are fresh, free from 
adulteration and which have been kept under sanitary condi- 
tions. Dealers differ much in the care they give to foods. 

Measurements to be accurate must be level. The cup or 
spoon should be filled and leveled off with the edge of a 
knife. This is the only way to insure uniform results. 

Blending Ingredients. — There are several ways of accom- 
plishing this purpose. 

1. Stirring. This is simple mechanical mixing in which 
a mass of ingredients is made uniform. 

2. Beating or whipping. This consists in so manipulating 
a soft mixture as to incorporate the air. A spoon or a 
special device is so applied that the bottom of the mix- 
ture is steadily lifted to the top. 

83 



84 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

3. Folding-in. This is a term applied to the method of in- 
troducing beaten white of tgg slowly and gently into a 
soft mass, so as to render it light, the air being re- 
tained. 

4. Cutting. This is used only in making pastry. Two 
knives are worked in opposite directions until the short- 
ening is well incorporated in the flour. 

The composition of the food material to be cooked should 
be known in order both to choose the best method for cook- 
ing it and to judge of the time and temperature that will give 
the best results. The digestibility of the food and its value 
to the body depend much upon the way it is cooked. 

The Effect of Temperature upon Food Materials. — Al- 
bumin is toughened or hardened by a high temperature but 
is soluble in cold water. It is most easily digested when 
cooked below the boiling point of water. The effect of heat 
upon albumin is utilized in the cooking of meats, when 
the surface is exposed to a high temperature in order that a 
coating of coagulated albumin may be formed, thus sealing 
in the meat juices. 

In the preparation of meats for broths and soups the 
meat is first allowed to stand in cold water to dissolve the 
albumin and a high temperature is avoided throughout the 
cooking. 

A high temperature decomposes fats and produces sub- 
stances that are quite irritating to the delicate mucous mem- 
branes of the digestive tract. It is so easy for this to happen 
in frying that fried foods are not advised in the diet of the 
sick. 

Starch is rendered more easy of digestion by the action of 
heat, being partially converted into dextrin by dry heat as in 
the making of toast, and to a less extent by moist heat as in 
the cooking of cereals. 

Cooking Processes: 

1. Boiling, stewing and simmering are methods of cook- 
ing food in water. Water boils with bubbles bursting 



METHODS OF COOKING 85 

above the surface, at a temperature of 212 F. This 
method is used in the cooking of almost all vegetables 
and some cereals. Gentle boiling is just as effective as 
rapid boiling and requires less fuel. 

2. Stewing is much the same as boiling, except that less 
water is used and the vessel is usually left uncovered 
that evaporation may take place. This method is used 
in cooking the tougher cuts of meat and dried fruits. 

3. Simmering is cooking in water slightly below the boil- 
ing point, about 200 to 210 F. It is the method used 
in the cooking of soups, broths and eggs. 

4. Steaming is cooking by heat derived from the vapor 
of boiling water. The food may be placed in a steamer 
in direct contact with the steam, or in a double boiler 
where the steam surrounds the food container. In either 
case the temperature is slightly below that of boiling 
water. Cereals, fruits and all kinds of vegetables can be 
cooked by steam. 

5. Baking and roasting are methods of cooking in the oven 
by means of heated air. Baking applies mostly to such 
foods as bread, cakes and pies. Roasting originally 
meant cooking before an open fire, but the term is now 
mostly applied to the cooking of meats in the oven. 

6. Broiling or grilling is cooking by direct heat from 
a glowing fire or flame. This is mostly used for tender 
cuts of meat as chops and steaks. 

7. Pan broiling is applied to the cooking of the same type 
of food in a hot frying pan or griddle, without fat. 

In cooking meats by any of these methods, the surface is 
first seared by the high temperature and the cooking is com- 
pleted at a lower temperature. 

8. Frying and sauteing are methods of cooking in hot fat. 
For frying, the food is immersed in deep fat, as in the 
cooking of doughnuts and fritters, while sauteing is 
done in a small amount of fat in a frying pan, as for 
hash brown potatoes. 



86 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

9. Fricasseeing is a combination of sauteing and stewing. 

10. Brazing is a combination of baking and stewing. By 
both of these methods the juice is partially extracted, 
but is served with the meat as a gravy or sauce. 

11. Poaching is a term applied to the cooking of eggs in 
shallow water. The egg is dropped into boiling water. 
This cools the water and the cooking is completed at a 
temperature below 212 F. 

Utensils. — For convenience in measuring use a standard 
half pint cup. These are marked into thirds and fourths and 
are made in both glass and tin. The tin is safer to use 
for measuring very hot materials. Wooden spoons are better 
than metal ones for mixing and stirring. They are softer and 
pleasanter to use, they do not chip and are not acted upon by 
acids. They can be had in all sizes. 

When beating eggs that are not separated, or egg yolk, a 
Dover egg beater or one of similar make is best to use. W T hite 
of egg can be made lighter by the use of a wire egg whisk. 

A double boiler should be used for cooking foods that are 
easily burned, such as cereals, milk and milk sauces. A 
double boiler should also be used where a high temperature 
is to be avoided as in custards. 

When mixing batters a crockery bowl is preferable to one 
of lighter weight. Tin and iron utensils should never be 
used in cooking fruit or any acid material. 

Enamel or earthenware pots are best to use in making tea 
and coffee. 

Washing of Dishes. — All dishes and utensils should be 
scraped and piled, similar things together, before beginning 
the washing. Greasy dishes or utensils should be rinsed off 
with hot water or put to soak in hot water to which a little 
washing soda has been added ; the alkali combines with the 
grease and makes it easy to remove. Soda should not be 
used in the cleaning of aluminum utensils. Since albumin is 
soluble in cold water and is hardened by heat, all dishes 
which have contained milk or eggs should be washed or 



METHODS OF COOKING 87 

soaked in cold water before being put into hot dish water. 
All dishes should be washed in hot soap suds and rinsed in 
clear, hot water in the following order : glass, silver, china, 
cutlery, cooking utensils. Dish water should be changed 
often and should never be allowed to become greasy. 

Cloths and towels should be washed in hot soap suds and 
rinsed in clear water, and if possible hung in the sun to 
dry. The good accomplished by use of hot water in wash- 
ing dishes may be quite undone by use of unsanitary dish 
towels. 

Disinfecting Dishes. — All dishes or utensils used in the 
sick room should be disinfected before being sent to the 
kitchen to be washed. In case of infectious diseases all 
dishes and utensils should be boiled in water containing 3 
per cent, of sodium bicarbonate for one-half an hour to 
one hour. 

The ice box and all cupboards where food is stored should 
be kept scrupulously clean. All shelves and compartments 
should be washed once a week with soap and hot water and 
should be inspected daily to see that no food that has been 
spilled is allowed to remain. The ice box should be so con- 
structed as to insure circulation of air. The ice chamber and 
drain pipes need especial attention and should be frequently 
washed and flushed out with hot soda water, using about 
one tablespoon of soda to a gallon of water. The part of the 
drainage pipe that can be removed should be taken out anu 
cleaned with a brush. 

The drain pipe from an ice box should not connect with 
the sewerage system. 

Milk, butter and eggs absorb odors and flavors very 
quickly and if possible should be kept in a compartment sep- 
arate from other food materials. Articles that have a very 
strong odor, such as onions and fish, should not be put into 
an ice box with other foods. It is well to test the temperature 
of an ice box frequently with a thermometer. A good 
average temperature is 50 F., although it is possible to have 
it slightly lower. Hot foods should not be put into the ice 



88 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

box as they raise the temperature, and may cause undesir- 
able changes in the food itself. 

Where a refrigerating system is used the disadvantages 
from unclean ice are avoided and a lower temperature is 
possible. 

Keeping Ice in the Sick Room. — The very best plan is to 
have a small refrigerator or a Japanese ice box, which may 
be had for a few dollars. If these little luxuries are im- 
possible, put the ice into a deep bowl, cover it with a plate, 
place in a larger bowl and cover all with newspapers. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 

1. Name four methods used in blending food materials. 

2. What is the effect of high temperature upon albumin? Upon 
starch? Upon fat? 

3. What is the difference between boiling and simmering? Between 
pan boiling and frying? 

4. Why are wooden spoons advised for mixing and stirring? 

5. When is the use of a double boiler advised? 

6. Describe the method of washing dishes and care of dish towels. 

7. How should dishes used in a sick room be disinfected? 

8. Describe the care of the ice box. 

9. How may ice be kept in a sick room? 



CHAPTER VI 
THE TRAY 

The writer's intention is only to suggest to the nurse the 
best and simplest methods of arranging the tray and a few 
of the important details. 

These things may seem of small importance but the pa- 
tient who has been long confined to his bed with a serious 
illness, thinks much of his immediate surroundings and his 
meals are the chief events of the day ; therefore too much 
care cannot be bestowed upon their preparation and service. 
One feeds with the eyes quite as much as with the palate and 
some carelessness on the part of the nurse may entirely de- 
stroy the appetite of a refined, fastidious or nervous patient. 

Attractive Arrangement of a Tray 

The cover and the arrangement of the tray are of the ut- 
most importance, and the slightest departure from regularity 
and immaculate cleanliness must be avoided. The following 
rules should be observed : 

i. The linen cover for the tray and the napkin should be 
absolutely clean, without crease or wrinkle, and of 
the best quality you can afford. 

2. The Silver. — Use the choicest silver, which must be 
clean and well polished. Warm slightly in cold weather 
as the chill of cold silver may spoil a delicate appetite. 

3. The China and Glassware. — Use the daintiest china 
and glassware free from chips and cracks and not a 
collection of odd pieces, which give an untidy appear- 
ance to the tray. The china should be arranged neatly 
and conveniently and warmed in cold weather. The 

89 



90 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

arrangement should be the same at all meals, enabling 
the patient to find anything without trouble. It should 
be as nearly as possible like that of the conventional 
meal service to which the patient has been accustomed. 
The nurse should be able to tell at a glance whether 
everything is in place, thus saving herself steps and the 
patient the annoyance of waiting to have something 
brought. 

When possible divert the patient's mind while he is eat- 
ing by introducing cheerful and interesting topics of con- 
versation. Business and disagreeable subjects must be rigidly 
excluded. 

General Notes and Instructions 

A fresh flower adds materially to the attractive appearance 
of the tray and should be provided whenever possible. If 
there is room for a small vase — as indicated on the dinner 
tray diagram — take care to choose one with a broad base so 
that it cannot easily be overturned. 

The water glass has been omitted from each of the three 
trays illustrated, in order to prevent crowding. It is as- 
sumed that fresh water and a drinking glass are kept con- 
stantly on the invalid's bedside table so that an additional 
glass on the tray would be superfluous. 

The use of a nested sugar bowl and cream pitcher, which 
can be obtained in nearly all glassware departments, effects 
a material saving in space. 

In arranging silver, the various pieces should be placed in 
the order in which they will be used, starting at the point 
farthest from the plate on either side. Knives have the cut- 
ting edge turned toward the plate ; spoons and forks are 
laid face up. All forks are arranged in order at the left with 
the exception of the oyster fork, which is placed either at the 
right of the soup spoon or diagonally across the handles of 
the spoon and knives. All spoons are laid at the right ex- 
cept those for beverages and desserts, which are laid across 



THE TRAY 



9i 



the rim of the saucer or dessert plate respectively. Butter 
spreaders are placed on the rim of the bread and butter plate 
as in diagram 2. 

Not more than three knives and three forks may be in- 
cluded in the "cover". If additional silver is required it is 
placed at the right when serving the course for which it is 
to be used or on the plate containing the food, as mentioned 
above. 

Small napkins are correct for breakfast, luncheon or sup- 
per. Large ones are required for dinner. 

Breakfast 

(Tray 16x22") 




1. Breakfast plate 

2. Fruit plate 

3. Grapefruit 

4. Fruit spoon 

5. Breakfast knife 

6. Cereal spoon 

7-8. Two serving spoons, 

nested in the other 
9. Breakfast fork 
10. Individual salt 



Diagram 1 

11. Napkin 

12. Single flower 

12-13. Covered toast plate tempor- 
arily nested on top of empty 
cereal dish 
14. Covered nappy containing 
hot cereal 
one 15. Covered nappy containing 

hearty course 
16. Individual coffee or choco- 
late pot 



9 2 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



17-18. Individual nested sugar and 19-20. Cup and saucer 
creamer 21. Teaspoon 

VARIATIONS 

1. When the fruit course consists of grapes, the fruit 
spoon may be omitted. If apples or peaches are served, 
a fruit knife should replace the spoon. 

2. Should a baked apple or stewed fruit be served with 
the meal instead of the regular fruit course, the cereal 
dish may be rilled, covered and set in the breakfast 
plate and the individual dish of cooked fruit may then 
replace the covered nappy number 14. 

3. In case no knife is required for the hearty course it 
may be omitted and the fork — or the egg spoon if a 
boiled egg is served — placed at the right of the plate. 
The egg y in an egg cup and covered with a cosy, would 
then take the place of the covered nappy number 15. 

Luncheon 

(Tray 16x22") 




Diagram II 

1. Luncheon plate 5. Knife 

2-3. Bouillon cup and saucer 6. Fork 

4. Bouillon spoon 7. Napkin 



THE TRAY 



93 



8. Bread and butter plate 

9. Butter ball or pat 

10. Roll 

11. Butter spreader 

12. Single flower 

13. Individual salt 

14. Dessert plate or pudding 
saucer 



15. Teaspoon 

16. Covered nappy for hearty 
course 

17. Serving spoon 

18. Individual sugar bowl 

19. Individual creamer 

20. Individual teapot 
21-22. Teacup and saucer 

23. Teaspoon 



VARIATIONS 

As in the case of the breakfast service, the knife may 
be omitted when not required and the fork then laid 
at the right of the plate. 

Should the hearty course consist of a salad, it may be 
arranged either in a small salad bowl or on an indi- 
vidual plate, replacing the covered nappy number 16. 
A salad fork would then take place of the luncheon 
fork. 

Dinner 
(Tray 18x24") 




1. Soup plate 



Diagram III 

2. Service plate 



94 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

3. Dinner knife 12. Teaspoon 

4. Soup spoon 13. Dinner plate 

5. Dinner fork 14. Vase 

6. Salad fork 15. Individual tea or coffee pot 

7. Dinner roll > 16-17. Individual nested sugar bowl 

8. Dinner napkin and creamer 

9. Salad plate 18-19. Individual salt and pepper 

10. Butter plate 20-21. Cup and saucer 

11. Dessert plate 22. Teaspoon 

VARIATIONS 

i. In the "plate dinner" type of service illustrated in the 
diagram, the meat or fish is arranged with the vege- 
tables on the dinner plate, which is covered with a 
second hot plate if no metal cover of suitable dimen- 
sions is available, thus effecting a saving in space. If 
this method is not approved, however, the dinner plate 
may replace the service plate beneath the soup service 
and the hearty foods may be arranged in covered 
dishes as illustrated in diagram 2. 

2. For cream soups a cream soup server is preferred. 
This is somewhat smaller than a soup plate, has 
handles and stands in its own small plate. Bouillon 
cups, however, should never be used for dinner. 

Formal Dinner Service 

Occasion will seldom be found to serve a complete formal 
dinner on a tray but it is well to understand the principles 
by which such service is governed, as they supply the founda- 
tion of all other forms. The correct order of courses for an 
elaborate dinner is as follows : hors d'ceuvres, soup, fish, 
entree, roast, game, salad, sweet ices, fruit and coffee. 

Following the rule that only three forks may appear on 
the table in advance, the hors d'oeuvres fork, fish fork, and 
meat fork are shown in the diagram. Were melon or oysters 
to constitute the first course, the order of forks from left to 
right, would be, fish, entree and meat. (The oyster fork is 
not counted as one of the three, because laid at the right of 
the plate). In either case only two knives would be in evi- 



THE TRAY 



95 



dence, because neither the hors d'ceuvres nor the entree 
should require the use of a knife. 

The salad fork and — in the form of service illustrated — 
the entree fork, would be placed when the corresponding 
food was served. In tray service they should be placed on 
or beside the dishes containing these courses. 

It would of course be impossible to arrange a six- or 
seven-course dinner on a tray, even in the form of single 
portions. The only solution would be to arrange the cover 
and the opening course on one tray and the remaining 
courses on a second. 




1. Soup spoon 

2. Fish knife 

3. Dinner knife 

4. Napkin 

5. Dinner plate 



Diagram IV 

6. Meat fork 

7. Fish fork 

8. Hors d'ceuvres 

9. Individual nut dish 
10. Goblet 



VARIATIONS 

i. Oysters, usually served as a cocktail, may replace the 
hors d'ceuvres, although considered less smart. 

2. A sherbet is sometimes served between the roast and 
game courses, or with the game. 

3. The salad may accompany the game if desired, the 
sherbet being omitted. 



96 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

4. At less elaborate dinners, the roast and game courses 
are sometimes combined in the form of capon or guinea 
hen, and the entree is likely to be omitted. 

The bread and batter plate is omitted at the formal dinner, 
together with the butter spreader, and the dinner roll is 
placed on or in the napkin and eaten without butter. At 
informal dinners, however, butter is usually served since 
most people prefer it. 

The napkin may be laid either on the service plate or at the 
left of the forks. 

How to Serve 
General Rules 

1. The time of cooking food to be served should be care- 
fully considered in relation to that of serving, for the 
most palatable food may be spoiled by allowing it to 
stand after being prepared. 

2. Cover tray with a clean napkin or tray cover in carry- 
ing it to its destination. Avoid serving too many things 
or too large portions. When the nature of the dish 
permits it may be garnished with a sprig of green. 
When the dietary ordered is very limited in variety, 
the patient is often gratified and will eat more by 
having his food served in courses. 

3. If possible, taste all foods and drinks before serving 
to see whether properly seasoned and at right tem- 
perature to serve. Always use separate spoon for 
tasting. 

4. Hot food should be served hot. Lukewarm food is 
nauseating. Cold drinks and fruits are more healthful 
when served cool than ice-cold. 

5. When fluid foods are to be given, other receptacles 
should be used than those used for medicine or the 
association of ideas may be strong enough to destroy 
what little appetite the patient has and even to produce 
nausea. Fill cups and glasses to within one inch of the 



THE TRAY 



97 



top — not full. For individual dishes, for a luncheon, 
or for drinks to be served alone, use a small tray or 
plate, covered with a doily or folded napkin. 

6. Cover all foods and drinks left standing in the sick 
room. Half-emptied cups or glasses should never be 
left in the room. 

7. The finger-bowl, one-fourth full of water, should be 
placed on a small plate covered with a dainty doily, 
with a few rose petals or green leaves in the bowl or 
on the plate. 

8. The tray and all traces of a meal should be removed 
immediately after eating. Care however must be taken 
not to hurry the patient at his meal or to give the im- 
pression of haste, for with a nervous patient this may 
cause loss of appetite or indigestion. 

9. The diet of the patient should be under the supervision 
of the physician and his directions followed implicitly. 
The nurse should make out the ''diet sheet" for the 
day for all special cases requiring special diets and vary 
the food as far as possible in the preparation and serv- 
ing. In hospitals the diet sheet is passed on to the 
dietitian, who carries out the directions laid down by 
the physician. The nurse should carefully check up 
the tray for mistakes sometimes occur, and giving the 
wrong food to a patient suffering from certain dis- 
orders may cause much unnecessary suffering or even 
death. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 

1. What is gained by scrupulous care in the arrangement of the 
tray and the serving of food? 

2. Mention at least five points which you consider important for 
the nurse to remember when serving the patient's meals. 

3. Is there any advantage in serving the meal in courses? 

4. When but one thing can be given a patient, how would you 
present" it most attractively? Illustrate. 

5. Why is a standard arrangement of dishes desirable? • 



CHAPTER VII 

MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 

Accurate measurement is necessary to insure success in 
cooking. 

All dry ingredients, such as flour, meal, confectioner's or 
powdered sugar, should be sifted before measuring. 

Mustard, cream of tartar, soda, and salt should be stirred 
before measuring, to lighten and free from lumps. 




A STANDARD MEASURING CUP 



A standard measuring cup contains one-half pint and is 
divided into thirds and fourths. 

To measure a cupful of dry material, put in the ingredients 
by spoonfuls, round slightly and level with back of case- 
knife, being careful not to shake cup. 

A cupful is measured level with the brim. 

All ingredients measured by the tablespoon or teaspoon are 
measured level. 

To measure a spoonful, fill the spoon and level it oft with 
the back of case-knife. 

To measure a half-spoonful, first measure a spoonful and 
then cut it in halves, lengthwise. 

To measure a quarter-spoonful, measure a half-spoonful 

98 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 



99 




and divide it into half, crosswise, allowing a little more for 
tip of spoon. 

A saltspoon is one-fourth of a level teaspoon. 

A speck is a little less -than one-eighth of a teaspoon. 

To measure butter, lard, and other solid fats, pack solidly 
into spoon or cup and level with knife. 

When recipe calls for one tablespoon, or so, of butter 
melted, measure before melting. When recipe calls for one 
tablespoon, or so, of nitlted butter, measure after melting. 

Household Measures and Weights 

(Level Measurement's) 

% teaspoon = 1 saltspoon, (ssp.) 

4 ssp = 1 teaspoon, (tsp.) 

3 tsp = 1 tablespoon, (tbsp.) 

4 tbsp = Y$ cup (c.) or y 2 gill. 

16 tbsp. (dry or liquid ingre- 
dients) = 1 c. or y 2 pint, = 8 ounces = 

226.8 grams. 

8 tbsp = y* cup or 1 gill. 

2 gills = 1 cup. 

2 c •.....-...-... x= »1 J quart, ~(qt.) =~- 4sS.& grams, 

.. - , I •.« :(gnY,). - - (. • • 



ioo PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

2 pt = 1 pint, (pt.) = a little less than 

one liter. 
4 qt = 1 gallon (gal.) 

APPROXIMATE MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 

1 square Baker's unsweetened 

chocolate =1 ounce, (oz.) = 28.35 

grams. 

1 tbsp. melted butter =1 oz. 

2 tbsp. butter (solid) =1 oz. 

4 tbsp. butter (solid) =2 oz. = *4 c. 

2 tbsp. arrowroot = 1 oz. 

2 tbsp. barley flour =1 oz. 

2 tbsp. buttermilk = 1 oz. 

2 t'bsp. brandy =1 oz. 

2 tbsp. cream = 1 oz. 

2 tbsp. grape juice =1 oz. 

2 tbsp. lemon juice =1 oz. 

(juice of one lemon) = about 3 tbsp. 

2 tbsp. lime (powdered) = 1 oz. 

2 tbsp. malted milk =1 oz. 

2 tbsp. molasses = i oz. 

2 tbsp. milk (skimmed) =1 oz. 

2 tbsp. milk (whole) =1 oz. 

2 tbsp. oatmeal = 1 oz. 

2 tbsp. olive oil =1 oz. 

2 tbsp. orange juice = 1 oz. 

2 tbsp. rice flour = 1 oz. 

2 tbsp. sugar (granulated) =1 oz. 

2 tbsp. wine =1 oz. 

3 tbsp. corn meal =1 oz. 

3 tbsp. farina = 1 oz. 

3 tbsp. gum gluten flour = 1 oz. 

3 tbsp. graham flour =1 oz. 

3 tbsp. white flour (not sifted) = 1 oz. 

4 tbsp. cocoa =1 oz. 

4 tbsp. coffee (powdered) =1 oz. 

4 tbsp. flour (sifted) = 1 oz. 

A cubic centimeter of water weighs 1 gram; 

28.35 grams = 1 oz. 

2 tbsp. liquid = 1 fluid oz. 

4 tbsp. liquid = 1 wineglassful 

1 tea cup =4 fluid oz. 

1 coffee cup = 8 fluid oz. or y 2 pt. 

1 ordinary glass =8 fluid oz. or y 2 pt. 

A liter of water weighs 1 kilogram ; 1 kilogram 

of water =2.2 lb. 

1 pt. mUk of water > ■ . -■ * . . .-. . . .\. . .'. . .> , , .;. . — 16 oz. = 1 lb. 

2 c. butter (packed solidly) = 16 oz. 

2 c. finely chopped meat (packed solidly) ... =16 oz. 
2 c. granulated sugar =15 oz. 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 101 

2 c. rice = 16 oz. 

2j4 c. powdered sugar = 16 oz. 

2y\ c. brown sugar =16 oz. 

2^4 c. oatmeal =16 oz. 

4 c. sifted flour = 16 oz. 

4^4 c. rolled oats =16 oz. 

8 eggs, average size (with shell) =16 oz. 

(counting \]/ 2 lbs. to 1 doz. eggs, which is standard 
weight of a dozen.) 

Apothecaries' Weights and Measures 
apothecaries' weights 

20 grains =1 scruple, S 

3 scruples =1 drachm, 5 

8 drachms (or 480 grains) =1 ounce, 5 

12 ounces =1 pound, lb. 

apothecaries' measures 

• 

60 minims (M) =1 fluid drachm, f3 

8 fluid drachms =1 fluid ounce, fo 

16 fluid ounces =1 pint, or pt. 

2 pints =1 quart, qt. 

4 quarts =1 gallon, gal. 

APPROXIMATE MEASURES 

1 teaspoonful = about 1 fluid drachm. 

1 dessertspoonful = about 2 fluid drachms. 

1 tablespoonful = about 4 fluid drachms 

or y 2 fluid ounce. 

1 wineglassful = about 2 fluid ounces. 

1 teacupf ul = about 4 fluid ounces. 

1 cupful = about 8 fluid ounces 

or l / 2 pint. 
1 tumblerful = about 8 fluid ounces 

or J / 2 pint. 

The Metric System 

The unit of weight in the metric system is the gram. A 
gram is about 1/30 (exact 28.35) of an ounce. The kilogram 
is 1000 grams. Kilogram is abbreviated to kg. ; 1 kg. = 2.2 
pounds. The unit measure of fluid volume is the cubic centi- 
meter (c.c). A cubic centimeter of water weighs 1 gram 
(1 gm.). A liter is 1000 c.c. This is a great help, as it 
makes it possible to either weigh fluids on a balance or 
measure them in a graduate. A good balance for weighing 
food is the Chatillon gram scale with movable disk. 



102 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



Weights and Measures 1 

APPROXIMATE EQUIVALENTS 

1 ounce = about 30 gm. (exact 28.35). 

2.2 pounds = 1000 gm. or 1 kg. 

1 fluid ounce =30 c.c. and weighs about 30 gm. 

(exact 28.35). 
1 quart = 1000 c.c. or 1 liter and weighs 

about 1000 gm. 

1 teaspoon, fluid =5 c.c. 

1 dessertspoonful, fluid =10 c.c. 

1 tablespoonful, fluid =15 c.c. 

1 large cup or tumbler = 240 c.c. 

To convert ounces to grams, multiply the ounces by 30. 
To convert pounds to kilograms, divide the pounds by 2.2. 
To convert kilograms to pounds, multiply the kilograms by 2.2. 
To convert cubic centimeters to ounces, divide the number of cubic 
centimeters by 30. 






Table of Equivalents 

Below is given a table of denominations of weights and 
measures, opposite which are placed their equivalents in the 
metric system, with corresponding equivalents in wine meas- 
ure and avoirdupois weights : 



LIQUIDS 



1 minim 

1 fl. drachm 

1 fl. oz 

4 fl. ozs. or 14 pi nt 

8 fl. ozs. or y 2 pint 

16 fl. ozs. or 1 pint 

2 pints 

4 pints or Y / 2 gallon 

1 gallon 

1 cubic centimeter. 

4 c.c 

30 c.c 

470 c.c 

1000 c.c. (1 liter).... 

4 liters 



APPROXIMATE 
EQUIVALENT 



0.06 cubic centimeter 
4 c.c. 
30 c.c. 

118 c.c. (V 8 liter) 
236 c.c. (J4 liter) 
437 c.c. iV 2 liter) 

1 liter (1000 c.c.) 

2 liters. 
4 liters. 

16 minims. 
1 fluid drachm. 
1 fl. oz. 
1 pint. 
2Vio pints 
1 gallon. 



EXACT 

EQUIVALENT 



0.061 C.C. 

3.696 c.c. 
29.574 c.c. 
118.295 c.c. 
236.590 c.c. 
473.197 c.c. 
.946 liter. 
1.892 liters. 
3.785 liters. 



16.23 mins. 

1.082 fl. drs. 

1.014 fl. ozs. 
15.892 fl. ozs. 

2.113 pints. 

1.056 gals. 



1 Modified from Wilder-Fcley Elithorpe, 
W. B. Saunders, Phila., Pa. 



'A Primer for Diabetic Patients, 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 



103 



SOLIDS 



1 gr 

15 grs 

1 oz 

1 lb 

1 milligramme 
(0.001 gm.) 

1 gm 

28 gm 




EXACT 
EQUIVALENT 



0.064798 gm. 

0.972 gm. 

28.350 gm. 

453.592 gm. 



0.015 



grain. 



15.4324 grs. 
432.107 grs. 



CONVERSION TABLES — OUNCES AND POUNDS TO GRAMS' 
A. OUNCES TO GRAMS 



Ounces 


Grams 


Ounces 


Grams 


1/16 


1.77 


2 


56.70 


1/15 


1.89 


3 


85.05 


1/14 


2.02 


4 


113.40 


1/13 


2.19 


5 


141.75 


1/12 


2.36 


6 


170.10 


1/11 


2.58 


7 


198.45 


1/10 


2.84 


8 


226.80 


1/9 


3.15 


9 


255.15 


1/8 


3.54 


10 


283.50 


1/7 


4.05 


11 


311.84 


1/6 


4.73 


12 


340.20 


1/5 


5.67 


13 


368.54 


1/4 


7.09 


14 


396.90 


1/3 


9.45 


15 


425.25 


1/2 


14.17 


16 


453.60 


1 


28.35 









B. POUNDS 


rO GRAMS 




Pounds 


Grams 


Pounds 


Grams 


1 


453.6 


6 


2722 


2 


907 


7 


3175 


2.2 


1000 


8 


3629 


3 


1361 


9 


4082 


4 


1814 


10 


4536 


5 


2267 







1 Mary Swartz Rose. Ph.D., 
Macmillan Co., New York. 



"A Laboratory Handbook for Dietetics," The 



104 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



CONVERSION TABLE — GRAMS TO OUNCES 1 



Grams 


Ounces 


Grams 


Ounces 


1 


0.035 


56 


1.975 


2 


0.071 


57 


2.010 


3 


0.106 


58 


2.046 


4 


0.141 


59 


2.081 


5 


0.176 


60 


2.116 


6 


0.212 


61 


2.151 


7 


0.247 


62 


2.187 


8 


0.283 


63 


2.222 


9 


0.317 


64 


2.257 


10 


0.353 


65 


2.293 


11 


0.398 


66 


2.328 


12 


0.423 


67 


2.363 


13 


0.458 


68 


2.398 


14 


0.494 


69 


2.434 


15 


0.529 


70 


2.467 


16 


5.564 


71 


2.504 


17 


0.599 


72 


2.539 


18 


0.635 


73 


2.575 


19 


0.670 


74 


2.610 


20 


0.705 


75 


2.645 


21 


0.741 


76 


2.861 


22 


0.776 


77 


2.716 


23 


0.811 


78 


2.751 


24 


0.846 


79 


2.786 


25 


0.882 


80 


2.822 


26 


0.917 


81 


2.857 


27 


0.953 


82 


2.892 


28 


0.998 


83 


2.927 


29 


1.023 


84 


2.963 


30 


1.058 


85 


2.998 


31 


1.093 


86 


3.033 


32 


1.128 


87 


3.068 


33 


1.164 


88 


3.104 


34 


1.199 


89 


3.139 


35 


1.234 


90 


3.174 


36 


1.269 


91 


3.210 


37 


1.305 


92 


3.245 


38 


1.340 


93 


3.280 


39 


1.376 


94 


3.315 


40 


1.411 


95 


3.351 


41 


1.446 


96 


3.386 


42 


1.481 


97 


3.421 


43 


1.517 


98 


3.457 


44 


1.552 


99 


3.492 



1 Mary Swartz Rose, Ph.D., 
Macmillan Co., New York. 



'A Laboratory Handbook for Dietetics," The 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 



105 



CONVERSION TABLE — GRAMS 'TO OUNCES 1 



Grams 


Ounces 


Grams 


Ounces 


45 


1.587 


100 


3.527 


46 


1.622 


113 


4 


47 


1.658 


200 


7 


48 


1.693 


227 


8 


49 


1.728 


250 


8.8 


50 


1.764 


300 


10.5 


51 


1.799 


400 


14 


52 


1.834 


453.6 


16 


53 


1.869 


500 


17.6 


54 


1.905 


907 


32 


55 


1.940 


1000 


35.2 



Thermometry 

The thermometers used by the nurse in cookery, in regu- 
lating the heat of the room or in taking the patient's tempera- 
tures are chiefly of the Fahrenheit scale. Scientists employ 
the Centigrade scale in most countries. While thermometers 
are made with both scales, it is a simple matter to translate 
the ordinary Fahrenheit to Centigrade. 

The freezing point of the latter is o°, while that of the 
former is 32 above o°. 

The boiling point of the latter is ioo°, while that of the 
former is 212 . 

In order to change Fahrenheit to Centigrade it is neces- 
sary first to subtract 32 from 212 in order that the freez- 
ing points may correspond. This gives 180 F. as equal to 
ioo° C, or i° F. equal to 100/180 or 5/9 of a degree C. 
Any number of degrees F. is therefore equal to 5/9 of the 
same number C. 

Example : Change 212 Fahrenheit to Centigrade. 
212 — 32 = 180 . 180 X 5/9 = !oo C. 

Conversely, i° C. is equal to 180/100 or 9/5 of a degree 
F. Any number of degrees C. is therefore equal to 9/5 of 
the same number F. 

Example : Change ioo° Centigrade to Fahrenheit. 
ioo° X 9/5 = 180 . 180 + 32 = 212 F. 

i Mary Swartz Rose. Ph.D., "A Laboratory Handbook for Dietetics," The 
Macmillan Co., New York. 



106 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 

1. What difference does it make whether flour, meal, etc., are sifted 
before measuring? 

2. Describe a standard measuring cup. 

3. How would you measure a cupful of dry material? 

4. How would you measure a spoonful of dry material? A half- 
spoonful? A quarter-spoonful? 

5. Give the method for measuring solid fats. 

6. What is the difference between one tablespoon of butter melted 
and one tablespoon of melted butter? Between one cupful of 
flour sifted and one cupful of sifted flour? 

7. The following measures and weights are so frequently needed 
by the nurse that they should be memorized, but it is equally 
important that she familiarize herself with the entire contents 
of the tables, in order that she may know where to turn quickly 
for useful information. 

(a) How many tablespoons are there in one cup? 

(b) How many teaspoons are there in one tablespoon? 

(c) How many cups in one pint? 

(d) How many pints in one quart? 

(e) How many tablespoons of butter in one ounce? 

(f) How many tablespoons of flour in one ounce? 

(g) How many tablespoons of sugar in one ounce? 
(h) How many cups of butter in one pound? 
(i) How many cups of granulated sugar in one pound? 
(j) How many cups of sifted flour in one pound? 
(k) How many grams in one ounce? 
(1) How many ounces in one pound? 
(m) How many grams in one pound? 
(n) How many grams in one kilogram? 
(o) How many pounds in one kilogram? 

8. Change 160 degrees Fahrenheit to Centigrade. 
Change 70 degrees Centigrade to Fahrenheit. 



PART II 

ANIMAL FOODS 

VEGETABLE FOODS 

NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

BEVERAGES 



CHAPTER VIII 
ANIMAL FOODS 

The important foods derived from the animal kingdom 
are: Meat — Poultry and Game — Fish — Shell Fish — Eggs — 
Milk and Milk Products — Sweetbreads — Gelatin 1 — Beef 
Preparations — Meat Broth and Jellies. 

Animal foods as a class are rich in protein. Some of 
them contain also considerable quantities of fat. With the 
exception of the lactose in milk and glycogen in shell fish, 
the amount of carbohydrate present is negligible. 

Meat 

The term meat includes the flesh of all animals used for 
food, as beef, veal, mutton, lamb, pork, poultry and game. 
Composition of Meat. 

1. Muscle fibers, composed of proteins, extractives, inor- 
ganic salts and water. 

The principal protein is albumin. Muscle albumin is 
often called myosin. 

2. The nitrogenous extractives include creatin, creatinin 
and purins. (See page 15-16.) 

3. The inorganic salts are chiefly those of potassium, 
sodium, magnesium, phosphorus, chlorine, sulphur and 
iron. 

The greater part of the iron is in combination with the 
hemoglobin of the red blood corpuscles. 

4. Connective tissue which binds together the muscle 
fibers; this consists chiefly of a protein called collagen 
which yields gelatin on boiling. 

5. Fat interspersed between the fibers. 

1 For Gelatin, see chapter "Nutritive Desserts", page 275. 

109 



no ANIMAL FOODS 

Nutritive Value. — Meat is rich in proteins of high value 
in nutrition (see page 15-16), is also more or less rich in fat, 
contains considerable iron, a moderate amount of phosphorus 
and is very poor in calcium. 

Meat is lacking in carbohydrates and unless a large 
amount of fat is present is to be regarded as a source of 
nitrogen rather than of energy. It should be remembered 
however that protein can be burned in the animal body to 
supply energy (see page 15). Since protein is burned at 
a faster rate than fat and carbohydrate, and since very little 
of the nitrogen, beyond that necessary for growth and repair, 
can be stored in the body, it is most advantageously used in 
small amounts along with plenty of fats and carbohydrates. 

It is a relatively poor source of vitamines especially of the 
antiscorbutic vitamine. 

The nitrogenous extractives of meat have no nutritive 
value and in fact, represent products either of waste (kata- 
bolism) or of insufficient oxidation. Unless properly ex- 
creted they may cause an excess of uric acid or other dis- 
orders. However, they bestow upon meat its characteristic 
flavor and odor, act as stimulants to the secretion of gastric 
juice and exert on the nervous system a stimulating influ- 
ence similar to that of tea and coffee. 

Digestibility of Meat. — Meat usually is easily digested and 
shows a high percentage of absorption from the digestive 
tract. The extractives probably aid to some extent by 
stimulating the flow of gastric juice. 

The amount of fat present influences the rapidity of 
digestion. 

Absorption of Meat. — Meat is very readily absorbed and 
leaves little residue in the intestines, only 3 per cent, of 
meat taken being lost in the process of digestion. 

Effect of Cooking Meat. — Proper cooking makes meat 
more digestible as it softens the connective tissues, thus 
causing a separation of the muscular fibers and enabling the 
digestive juices to act more advantageously. The color and 
flavor are improved. There is a loss of weight by evaporation 



MEAT in 

of water and loss of mineral matter and some extractives. 
The loss of water concentrates the nutrients thus rendering 
cooked meat proportionally more nutritious than raw meat. 
Objective Points and Methods in Cooking: 

1. To retain the juice, as in baking, broiling, boiling and 
frying. 

2. To extract the juice, as in soups. 

3. To extract and retain the juice, as in stews. 

The Principal Constituent of meat to be considered in 
cooking is the albumin. Note page 17 for albumin. 

Cooking of Meat. — Heat penetrates meat slowly. At a tem- 
perature of 158 degrees Fahrenheit, the meat assumes a gray 
color as a result of the decomposition of the coloring matter 
of the blood. At the same time a peculiar odor of cooking 
develops, due to chemical changes produced by the heat. 

At a temperature above 104 degrees Fahrenheit, meat be- 
gins to lose weight from the separation of water, which con- 
tains salts and nitrogenous extractives. This process contin- 
ues as the temperature rises, except that coagulable proteins 
no longer separate with the water. 

Coagulation of the albumin is an important factor in cook- 
ing meat and the degree varies with the mode of cooking. 

As broiling is the preferred way of preparing meat for the 
sick and convalescent it is taken up in detail in this chapter. 

Broiling. — In broiling, the meat is to be cooked in its own 
juices ; it is therefore evident that these must be retained as 
completely as possible. At first the temperature should be 
sufficiently high quickly to coagulate, and even to harden the 
albumin on the outside surface, so as to form a layer or pro- 
tecting coat over the whole ; then the heat should be modified 
so that the interior will be raised to a temperature that will 
cook it properly without loss of its nutritive properties. 

In broiling we partially sacrifice the outer layer of the 
meat in order to preserve the inner portion. 

The time for cooking will be different for different kinds 
of meat. Beef and mutton require a shorter time than lamb, 
chicken or game. 



ii2 ANIMAL FOODS 

A piece of meat properly broiled swells and when cut the 
liquid portion flows out readily, but if cooked too long the 
albumin inside coagulates and the meat loses its moisture, 
shrinks and becomes tough. 

Effect of Cold and Hot Water on Meat. — Cold water 
draws out the soluble albumin, the extractives and some of 
the salts and flavor ; thus in soups, broths and stews, where 
all the nutriment possible is desired in the liquid, the meat 
is first put into cold water and gradually brought to a higher 
temperature. 

Hot water or dry heat coagulates albumin and since if 
subjected to too high a temperature this becomes tough and 
indigestible, we must note carefully the proper temperature 
of cooking. Often it is necessary to sacrifice a small amount 
of albumin by exposing the meat to a high temperature for 
a short time .to form an outside coating in order to re- 
tain the rest of the juices more effectively, after which the 
connective tissue can be softened by gentle simmering for 
several hours. 

The Quality of Meat depends upon the age, environment, 
care and feeding of the animal and the time of hanging after 
slaughtering. It also depends greatly on the cuts used. 

The tougher and less expensive cuts, if properly cooked, 
are as nutritious and as easily digested as the expensive cuts. 
However, tough meats take long, slow cooking to make them 
palatable and tender and the fuel used must be taken into 
consideration in the expense. Tough meats are muscles 
which the animal uses most, as the legs (especially the lower 
part), neck, etc.; they are more highly flavored on account 
of the freer circulation of blood through these portions. Cuts 
from the neck and shin are used for soups and broths. 

The tender and more expensive cuts are from the 
muscles which the animal uses least, as the upper portion of 
the hind quarter (rump, sirloin) and the fore ribs. The cir- 
culation of blood through these portions is less and they are 
not as juicy and well flavored nor are they any more nutri- 



MEAT 113 

• 
tious than tougher portions. These tender cuts are used for 
steaks and roasts. 

The remaining muscular portions of the animal (flank, 
shoulder and brisket) are not as tender as the upper portion 
of the hind quarter but are fully as nutritious. They require 
longer cooking and are used for stews, braising and pot 
roast. 

Internal Organs or Animal Viscera used as food are the 
heart, tongue, brain, kidneys, liver, pancreas, thymus glands 
and paunch. Although some are as easily digested as most 
muscle tissue, they are not as nutritious and most of them 
produce large quantities of uric acid in the body. 

The heart and kidneys are not as easily digested as other 
meats on account of their close and firm texture and should 
be eaten only by those of good digestive powers. 

The tongue is not very easily digested, for although the 
lean meat is tender the fat is hard and tends to retard diges- 
tion in the stomach. 

The brain and liver are usually easily digested. 

The paunch is the third stomach of the ox and called tripe. 
When properly cooked it is easily digested. 

The pancreas and thymus glands of the calf or lamb are 
sold under the name of sweetbreads. They are most easily 
digested, but give rise to considerable quantities of uric acid 
in the body. Note Chapter on Sweetbreads, page 130. 

Beef. — The best beef is obtained from the steer of three or 
four years of age. After killing, the animal should hang for 
two or three weeks. 

Test for Good Beef. — The flesh is firm and fine grained in 
texture ; bright red in color when first cut and upon exposure 
to air ; looks juicy and well-mottled and coated with fat, 
which is firm and of yellowish color. 

Veal. — The flesh of the calf is difficult of digestion and 
should be used in the sick room only for making broth. It 
should never be eaten by those of weak digestion. It contains 
less albuminous substances and more gelatin than beef. 

Test for Good Veal. — It should be of a pinkish color, with 



ii4 ANIMAL FOODS 



• 



clear, firm, white fat, fine grained and tender. The cut most 
used for broth and soup is the lower part of the leg known 
as the knuckle. 

Mutton. — The best quality of mutton comes from a sheep 
from three to five years old ; after killing it should be 
allowed to hang in order to ripen and develop the flavor. 

Test for Good Mutton. — The flesh is fine grained, bright 
pink in color, the fat is white, hard and flaky and the skin 
comes of! easily. The bones of mutton are white and smooth 
and round at the joints. 

Lamb. — Lamb is sold as ''spring lamb" when killed at six 
weeks to three months old. It is very expensive and comes 
into the market early in the year — February and March. 
Lamb is usually killed when less than a year old and should 
be sold immediately after killing. In this respect it differs 
from beef and mutton, which should hang after killing to 
ripen and develop the flavor. 

Test for Lamb. — Lamb can be distinguished from mutton 
by the pinkish color of the bone and the serrated joints. 

Pork. — The flesh of the pig is the least digestible of all 
meats on account of the high percentage of fat which it con- 
tains. Consequently it is not used in cookery for the sick, with 
the exception of sometimes a small amount of ham, salt pork 
or bacon, the salty taste of which occasionally acts as a 
stimulant to the lost appetite of the convalescent. Bacon is 
more easily digested than other cuts of pork. It comes from 
the side and is cured by salting and smoking. 

Next to butter and cream, bacon fat is the most easily as- 
similated of ordinary food fats. 

Cuts of Meat. 1 — The method of cutting sides of beef, veal, 
mutton and pork into parts and the terms used for the dif- 
ferent "cuts", as these parts are commonly called, vary in dif- 
ferent localities. The diagrams show the positions of the 
different cuts, both in the live animal and in the dressed car- 
cass, as found in the markets. The lines of division between 
the different cuts will vary slightly according to the usage 

1 This section is quoted from Atwater and Bryant, Bulletin No. 28, Office 
of Experiment Stations, United States Department of Agriculture, Washing- 
ton, D. C. 



MEAT 115 

of the local market, even where the general method of cut- 
ting is as here indicated. The names of the same cuts likewise 
vary in different parts of the country. 

Cuts of Beef 




Fig. 5. — Diagrams of cuts of beef: 1, Neck; 2, chuck; 3, ribs; 4, shoulder- 
clod; 5, fore-shank; 6, brisket; 7, cross-ribs; 8, plate; 9, ravel; 10, loin; 11, 
flank; 12, rump; 13, round; 14, second cut round; 15, hind-shank. — (Atwater and 
Bryant, Bulletin No. 28, Office of Experiment Stations, United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture.) Send fcr Bulletin for cuts of Veal and Pork. 

The general method of cutting up a side of beef is illus- 
trated in Fig. 5, which shows the relative position of the cuts 
in the animal and in a dressed side. The neck piece is fre- 
quently cut so as to include more of the chuck than is repre- 
sented by the diagrams. The shoulder-clod is usually cut 
without bone, while the shoulder (not included in diagram) 
would include more or less of the shoulder blade and of the 
upper end of the fore-shank. Shoulder steak is cut from the 
chuck. In many localities the plate is made to include all 
the parts of the fore-quarter designated on the diagrams as 
brisket, cross-ribs, plate and navel while different portions of 
the plate as thus cut are spoken of as the "brisket end of 
plate" and "navel end of plate." This part of the animal is 
largely used for corning. The ribs are frequently divided 



n6 ANIMAL FOODS 

into first, second, and third cuts, the latter lying nearest the 
chuck and being slightly less desirable than the former. The 
chuck is sometimes sub-divided in a similar manner, the third 
cut of the chuck being nearest the neck. The names applied 
to different portions of the loin vary considerably in different 
localities. The part nearest the ribs is frequently called 
"small end of loin" or "short steak." The other end of the 
loin is called "hip sirloin" or "sirloin." Between the short 
steak and the sirloin is a portion quite generally called the 
"tenderloin," for the reason that the real tenderloin, the 
very tender strip of meat lying inside the loin, is found most 
fully developed in this cut. Porterhouse steak is a term most 
frequently applied to a combination of the sirloin and the 
tenderloin. It is not uncommon to find the flank cut so as to 
include more of the loin than is indicated in the figures, in 
which case the upper portion is called "flank steak." The 
larger part of the flank, however, is very frequently corned, 
as is also the case with the rump. In some markets the rump 
is cut so as to include a portion of the loin, which is then 
sold as "rump steak." The portion of the round on the in- 
side of the leg is regarded as more tender than that on the 
outside and is frequently preferred to the latter. As the leg 
lies upon the butcher's table, this inside of the round is 
usually on the upper or top side and is therefore called "top 
round." Occasionally the plate is called the "rattle." 

Fig. 7 shows the relative position of the cuts in a dressed 
side of mutton or lamb and in a live animal. The cuts in a 
side of lamb and mutton number but six, three in each quar- 
ter. The chuck includes the ribs as far as the end of the 
shoulder blades, beyond which comes the loin. The flank is 
made to include all the under side of the animal. Some 
butchers, however, make a large number of cuts in the fore- 
quarter, including a portion of the cuts marked "loin" and 
"chuck" in Fig. 7, to make a cut designated as "rib," and 
a portion of the "flank" and "shoulder" to make a cut 
designated as "brisket." The term "chops" is ordinarily 



MEAT 



"7 



used to designate portions of the loin, ribs, chuck or 
shoulder, which are either cut or ''chopped" by the butcher 



Cuts of Lamb and Mutton 




Fig. 7. — Diagrams of cuts of lamb and mutton: 1, Neck; 2, chuck; 3, 
shoulder; 4, flank; 5, loin; 6, leg. — (Atwater and Bryant, Bulletin No. 28, 
Office of Experiment Stations, United States Department of Agriculture.) 

into pieces suitable for frying or broiling. The chuck and 
ribs are sometimes called the "rack." 



Energy Value of Meat 
See Table, under names of meat, as Beef — Mutton — 
Lamb — Bacon — Ham, etc. 

See Table, page 58, for energy value of other ingredients. 



TO BROIL STEAK 



Wipe, trim off the superfluous fat. Heat and grease the 
broiler with some of the fat. Place meat in broiler with fat 
edge next to handle and broil over a clear fire, turning every 
ten seconds for the first minute, holding broiler near the 
coals that the surface may be well seared, thus preventing 



n8 ANIMAL FOODS 

escape of juices ; then cook at lower temperature, holding 
the broiler higher. 

Steak cut one inch thick will take five minutes if liked 
rare, and eight minutes if well done ; one and one-half inch 
thick, eight to ten minutes. Serve on a hot platter and sea- 
son with butter, salt and pepper, or with Maitre d'Hotel But- 
ter. 

Note : Steak should be cut at least one inch thick ; many- 
prefer it much thicker. The most tender steaks are tender- 
loin, sirloin and cross-cut of rump. Sirloin, porterhouse (a 
thick slice of sirloin with tenderloin attached), cross-cut of 
the rump and top of the round are all good steaks. The top 
of round is solid meat and a cheap steak, is tender if cut 
from animal of right age and is the second or third cut from 
top of round. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER, 405 CALORIES 

% cup butter. 1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

Yz teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Ys teaspoon pepper. 

Rub the butter to a cream; add salt, pepper, parsley and 
lemon juice. Spread on hot beefsteak. 

PAN-BROILED BEEF CAKES 1 

Use steak from upper part of round and with a small piece 
of suet put all through a meat chopper ; without seasoning, 
shape into small, flat, circular cakes. Into saute pan or fry- 
ing-pan put a little beef fat ; when smoking hot, put in the 
cakes and cook a few moments on each side and turn ; it 
will take about five minutes to cook them. Season well with 
salt, j'opper and butter and serve on hot platter. Do not add 
salt before cooking, as it toughens the meat. 

MUTTON CHOPS BROILED 1 

Cut away the tough outside skin, trim off a part of the 

1 For Scraped Beef note page 125. 



MEAT 119 

fat. Broil same as steak — that is, close to the glowing coals 
for about one minute, turning every ten seconds, then cook 
at a lower temperature, holding the broiler higher. Will take 
four or six minutes for a chop one inch thick. Mutton, like 
beef, should be served rare. Season chops with salt and 
pepper but not with butter as the meat is rich and fat and 
does not require it. 



Prepare and broil same as mutton chops, except that 
they are to be well done instead of rare. To accomplish this 
about three minutes longer cooking will be required ; for a 
chop one inch thick, from eight to ten minutes. 

FRENCH CHOPS 1 

Trim a chop until there is nothing left but the round 
muscle at the thick end, with a little fat about it. Cut away 
all the meat from the bone, which will then look like a handle 
with a meat morsel at one end. Broil and season. Serve on 
hot platter with paper handles on chops and garnish with 
parsley and peas. 

PAX-BROILED CHOPS 1 

Chops are fairly good pan-broiled. The same principle is 
to be followed as in the cooking over coals — that is, a high 
degree of heat at first, to sear the outside before the juice 
escapes, and a lower temperature afterward — therefore, heat 
the saute pan or frying-pan exceedingly hot (use no fat), 
drop in the chop, count ten and turn, repeating for about one 
minute, then draw the pan to the back or side of the stove 
and finish cooking slowly. A chop one inch thick will be per- 
fectly done in from five to seven minutes. If the pan is hot 
enough at first there will be no loss of juice or flavor. Season 
and serve in the same manner as broiled chops. 

1 Chops average 300 Cal. per 100 gms. 



120 ANIMAL FOODS 

chops (or birds) broiled in paper 1 

Prepare a chop as for pan-broiling. Spread a piece of 
paper evenly and thickly with butter. Lay on it a nicely 
trimmed chop and double the paper with edges together. 
Fold and crease the edges on the three sides, then fold and 
crease again, so that the butter cannot run out. These folds 
should be half-an-inch wide. It will be necessary to have 
the sheet of paper — foolscap or heavy white paper — consid- 
erably more than twice as large as the chop. Broil over coals, 
not too near, turning often so that the temperature will not 
get so high as to ignite the paper. A chop broiled in this way 
is basted in the butter and in its own juices and is very deli- 
cate. A chop three-quarters of an inch thick will cook in five 
minutes ; one an inch thick, in eight. 

Should the paper ignite, it need not destroy the chop. 
Take it out and put into a fresh paper and try again. The 
chop should be served hot, seasoned with salt and pepper. 

Note : Birds may be broiled in the same way. 

BROILED BACON 

Cut bacon into slices as thin as possible and remove rind. 
Put into broiler, placing broiler over baking pan and cook in 
hot oven until crisp. 

CURLED BACON 

Heat saute pan very hot. Put in strips of very thin sliced 
bacon. As fat is drawn out, pour it off into cup ; cook bacon 
until crisp and brown. Drain on brown paper. 

BROILED HAM 

Cut slices of ham one-third inch thick. If very salt soak 
fifteen minutes in lukewarm water; broil three minutes or 
until brown on both sides, turning frequently. A slice of 
boiled ham is very delicate cooked in this same way, cooking 
it less time. 

1 Chops average 300 Cal. per 100 gms. 



MEAT 121 



ROAST MEATS 



Prepare meat, put on rack in dripping pan, dredge with 
salt and flour and cook in hot oven until the surface is seared, 
reduce the heat and cook slowly the required time. 

Beef, rare 13 minutes per pound. 

. Beef, rare (over 5 lbs.) .... 18 minutes per pound. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST MEATS 

1 tablespoon fat. 1 cup boiling water. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

Pour fat from baking pan and return to pan the quantity 
desired. Add flour and when well browned pour on gradually 
the boiling water, stirring constantly. Cook five minutes, 
season with salt and pepper, and strain. 

Beef Preparations 

BEEF JUICE BEEF TEA RAW BEEF 

Beef Juice 

Composition. — The juice of meat contains some proteins 
in addition to salts and extractives. 

General Principles in Cooking. — From raw meat we can- 
not obtain as much meat juice as is easily taken from the 
same amount of meat when previously heated. 

The reason for this is that the envelope of the muscular 
tissue is a tough substance, which swells and dissolves when 
heated, yielding gelatin, and the liquid portion of the meat 
is easily expressed. If cooked too long the protein largely 
coagulates and the meat loses most of its moisture and be- 
comes tough. 

A steak thoroughly heated through swells and when cut 
the liquid portion flows out readily. One pound of meat 
yields about four ounces of juice. 

Care in Serving. — In administering beef juice great care 
should be taken in reheating not to heat it above 136 degrees 



122 ANIMAL FOODS 

Fahrenheit, at which temperature albumin coagulates in 
flakes. 

Substitutes for Beef Juice. — Prepared extracts of good 
make may be used to advantage with beef juice to add flavor 
and make it more appetizing. 

Absorption. — Beef juice is readily absorbed. It has very 
little food value but is useful where the stimulating effect due 
to its extractives is desirable. 

Comparative Food Value of Beef Juice and Beef Tea. — 
Beef juice, although fourteen times as rich in proteins as 
beef tea, is raw in flavor and is rejected by many palates. 
In such a case, add a small quantity of beef tea or prepared 
beef extract for flavor. 

Thus by the union of two bodies, one rich in proteins and 
the other rich in flavor, we have a superior preparation. 
Make a small quantity at a time, as it does not keep well. 

Beef Tea 

Composition. — Meat treated with hot water contains only 
a small percentage of solids and almost no proteins but con- 
sists chiefly of nitrogenous extractives and soluble mineral 
matter and water. The clear liquid which remains when the 
coagulated albumin is strained out of beef tea contains only 
extractive or flavoring substances with the soluble mineral 
matter of the meat. Therefore it should not be strained 
and if properly prepared the albumin will not be coagulated 
to so great an extent. 

Even in strong beef tea which is carefully made the 
amount of proteins present has been found to be less than 
two per cent. 

Nutritive Value. — Beef tea is valuable in the sick room not 
as a food, but because of its appetizing flavor and stimulating 
qualities. 

Beef Extracts are prepared in both liquid and solid form. 
They have very little nutritive value, containing but four to 
five per cent, of protein, but are useful for their flavor and as 



MEAT 123 

stimulants. They are used to advantage in combination with 
beef juice, adding flavor and making it more palatable and 
appetizing. 

Raw Beef 

Uncooked Meat. — Raw meat is not quite as easily. digested 
as cooked meat and owing to color and flavor is not appetiz- 
ing and could not be taken continuously. However, when 
chopped fine or scraped free from connective tissue, it is 
very readily digested and can be served disguised or very 
slightly cooked in many dainty ways. 

Comparative Food Value of Raz^' Beef and Beef Tea. — It 
can readily be seen that raw meat served chopped fine or 
scraped contains all the nutriment of the meat, whereas beef 
tea as seen from the manner of preparation, contains only the 
extractives and soluble mineral matter of meat. 

BEEF JUICE 1 (FOR INFANTS) 
100 grams (2> l / 2 oz.)=25 Calories. 

One pound of rare round steak, cut thick (no fat), slightly 
broiled until the outside is seared and the meat is hot 
throughout. Remove and cut into small pieces and press out 
by means of a lemon squeezer, potato ricer, or better still a 
meat press. This seasoned with salt may be given cold or 
warmed by placing the cup which holds it in warm water. It 
should not be heated sufficiently to coagulate the albumin 
which is in solution and which then appears as flakes of meat 
floating in the juice. 

Composition : 0.60% fat, 2.90% protein, and considerable 
extractive matter. 

Feeding : Begin with one teaspoon and increase to six tea- 
spoons (1 ounce) per day. Beef juice often makes the baby 
restless at night. According to Morse & Talbot not more 
than 2 ounces per day should be given a baby even in its 
second year. 

1 Modified from Dr. L. Emmett Holt, "The Care and Feeding of Children", 
D. Appleton & Co., New York City. ■ 



124 ANIMAL FOODS 

Note : Dr. Koplik recommends beef juice mixed with 
equal parts of barley water and salted to taste. Useful in 
forms of diarrhoea and dysentery. 

BEEF JUICE BY THE COLD PROCESS 1 (FOR INFANTS) 
100 grams (2> l / 2 oz.)=23 Calories. 

One pound of finely chopped rare round steak (no fat), 
six ounces of cold water, a pinch of salt ; place in a covered 
jar and stand on ice or in a cold place, five or six hours, or 
over night. It is well to shake occasionally. This is now 
strained and all the juice squeezed out by placing the meat 
in a coarse muslin and twisting it very hard. It is then 
seasoned and served like beef juice. 

Beef juice so made is not quite as palatable as that pre- 
pared from broiled steak but it is even more nutritious and 
is more economical, as fully twice as much juice can be ob- 
tained from a given quantity of meat. Beef juice prepared 
in either of these ways is greatly to be preferred to the beef 
extracts sold. 

BEEF TEA WITH HYDROCHLORIC ACID 
100 grams (3 J / 2 oz.)=25 Calories. 1 
Select one-half pound of good beef ; remove everything 
that is not clear meat. Chop fine. Put in pint fruit jar 
and add one cup cold water and five drops dilute hydro- 
chloric acid. Stir and set in refrigerator or any cold place for 
two hours to digest. Then strain, season with salt and serve 
in some dainty china cup on account of color. If one should 
object to color, heat the tea in a double boiler till color just 
changes. Do not strain. Beef tea made in this way is recom- 
mended by physicians for feeble children and patients much 
weakened by sickness. 

BEEF TEA 

y 2 pound steak. Salt. 

\ cup cold water. 

1 Modified from Dr. L. Emmett Holt, "The Care and Feeding of Children", 
D. Appleton & Co., New York City. 



MEAT 125 

Wipe steak, remove all fat and cut in small pieces. Put 
into glass fruit jar, add the cold water and let stand fifteen 
minutes to draw out the juice. Cover jar, using rubber band 
and cover, place on trivet in a kettle and surround with cold 
water. Allow water to heat slowly to 150 F. (no higher), 
and keep at this temperature two hours. Strain and season 
with salt. Remove fat with soft paper or bread. Reheat 
over hot water to 130 F. and serve in heated cups. 

Note : If possible cool beef tea before serving that fat may 
be removed more thoroughly. 

BEEF TEA FROZEN 

Beef tea may be frozen to the consistency of a water ice. 
Very grateful to a fever patient. 

SCRAPED BEEF OR MEAT PULP (FOR INFANTS) 
100 grams=142 Calories. 

A piece of rare round or sirloin steak (no fat), one-half 
to one inch thick. Lay it on a meat board and with a large, 
heavy mixing spoon scrape the soft part of either side, leav- 
ing the tough fibers. From one-half to one tablespoonful may 
be given, well salted, to a child of eighteen months. Scraping 
is much better than cutting the meat fine. 

For use on a large scale, as in institutions, a Hamburg- 
steak cutter may be employed. 

Scraped beef for the adult may be shaped into small, round 
cakes one-half inch thick and broiled two minutes or cooked 
in a hot, dry frying-pan, never in fat. A little salt and butter 
may be added if desired. Serve plain or on rounds of toast. 

RAW BEEF SANDWICHES 

1 ounce scraped beef =40 Calories 

1 ounce bread (1 slice) — 73 Calories 

Prepare meat as for scraped beef, season and spread on 
bread cut very thin. Put slices on top, sandwich-fashion, 
and cut in fancy shapes. Serve in this manner or toast 
daintily. 



126 ANIMAL FOODS 

Broth and Meat Jellies 

Broth is a liquid containing the juices of soluble parts of 
meat and bone which have been extracted by long, slow 
cooking. 

This liquid is more or less solid when cold, according to 
the gelatinous nature of the ingredients. It varies greatly in 
quantity, according to the manner in which it is prepared 
and the material used. The cheaper cuts of meat are usually 
taken for this purpose. 

Composition. — Broth contains almost no proteins. It con- 
sists chiefly of extractives and soluble mineral matter with 
a little gelatin. 

Objective Point and General Principles in Cooking. — The 
chief object in making broth is to obtain the largest possible 
amount of nutriment from the meat. This is best accom- 
plished by observing the following rules : 

i. Cut meat into small pieces. 

2. Soak in cold water before heating. 

3. Use a careful selection and proportion of meat, bone 
and water. (The usual proportion is one pint of water 
to one pound of meat.) 

4. Season judiciously. 

5. Use steam-tight kettle; simmer (not boil), that the 
juice may be fully extracted. 

6. Make it the day before using, that the fat may be re- 
moved more easily. 

7. Cook long and slowly. 

Broth may be made from beef, mutton or chicken. Rice, 
barley, white or whole egg, etc., may be added, if allowed, to 
increase the quantity of nourishment. 

Comparative Value of Broth and Beef Tea. — Broth differs 
from beef tea in that it contains gelatin, besides the extract- 
ives or flavoring substances and soluble mineral matter that 
are found in beef tea. Gelatin is obtained from meat and 
bones by long, slow cooking and is useful in convalescence 
and in febrile states. (Note "Gelatin," p. 275.) 



MEAT . 127 

Meat Jellies are a condensed form of broth and form an 
agreeable way of serving broth to an invalid. Although they 
contain little nourishment they are appetizing and stimulat- 
ing. 

Energy Value of Broth 
Very few analyses of broths are available, hence no at- 
tempt has been made to state the calories under each recipe. 
The following table gives an approximate idea of their 
energy value : 

Beef broth 100 grams yield 16.5 Calories 

Beef juice 100 grams yield 25 Calories 

Clam bouillon , .,100 grams yield 2 Calories 

Consomme '. 100 grams yield 12 Calories 

Food that may be added for extra nutriment 

1 whole egg (average) 50 grams yield 74 Calories. 

White of 1 egg (average) 33 grams yield 17 Calories. 

Yolk of 1 egg (average) 17 grams yield 60 Calories. 

1 tablespoon rice • 15 grams yield 50 Calories. 

1 tablespoon barley flour 17.01 grams yield 53 Calories. 

1 tablespoon soy bean flour 4 grams yield 30 Calories. 

MUTTON BROTH (FOR INFANT OR ADULT ) 

2 pounds lean mutton, cut from 1 quart cold water. 

fore quarter with bones. 2 pinches of salt. 

Wipe meat, remove skin and fat and put through a meat 
chopper, add water and salt. Simmer (do not boil) for 
four hours over a slow fire down to one pint, adding more 
water if necessary ; strain through muslin and when cold 
carefully remove the fat, adding more salt if required. It 
may be reheated in a double boiler and served hot, or cold in 
the form of a jelly. 

A very nutritious and delicious broth is made by thicken- 
ing this with cornstarch or arrowroot, cooking for ten min- 
utes and then adding three ounces of milk, or one ounce of 
thin cream, to a half pint of broth. 

For the Adult more seasoning may be used ; salt, pepper 
and if desired a teaspoon of chopped parsley and one tea- 



128 ANIMAL FOODS 

spoon of hot cooked rice just before serving. Strain broth 
through a coarse sieve in place of muslin. 

BEEF AND VEAL BROTH 

These are made and used in precisely the same manner as 
mutton broth. (Use cut from loin or knuckle of veal). 

CHICKEN BROTH 

Sy 2 pounds chicken. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 pints cold water. Speck pepper. 

2 tablespoons rice. 

Thoroughly clean a chicken (see " Poultry," p. 134), re- 
moving skin and fat ; separate at the joints and wipe with a 
wet cloth. Put in kettle, add the cold water and let 
stand one-half hour. Heat very slowly and simmer three 
hours, or until meat is tender. When half-cooked skim off 
fat and add the rice and seasonings (and if desired, a small 
onion). When meat is tender, skim off fat and strain, taste 
and season properly and serve hot. When possible, make 
broth the day before using, that it may be thoroughly cooled 
and the fat removed easily. Reheat in a double boiler. The 
rice may be cooked and rubbed through strainer before add- 
ing to broth, or it may be omitted if desired. An old fowl, 
not too fat, is best for broth. 

CLAM BROTH NO. I 

Take five clams, wash and scrub well and put in saucepan 
with cold water to cover. Cook until shells open, remove 
from pan and take out clams. Chop and put them back into 
broth. Cook fifteen minutes. Strain through muslin; serve 
hot. If too strong flavor, add hot water. 

Note : If made in large quantity, use two or three clams 
to one cup of water. Clam broth ready for use is put up in 
bottles and called Burnham's Clam Bouillon. Broth may 
be frozen to the consistency of a frappe. 

CLAM BROTH NO. II 

l A cup clam broth or Burn- Pepper. 

ham's Clam Bouillon. 14 teaspoon butter. 

1 cup water or milk. 



MEAT 129 

Blend the clam broth and water (or milk) and heat to the 
boiling point. Season with salt to taste and if allowed, a 
little pepper and the butter. Serve hot in dainty cups. 

EGG BROTH 

If one cannot conveniently get protein from meat, a broth 
may be made by means of hot water into which an egg has 
been stirred. Heat three tablespoons of water to not above 
149 degrees F. (below the simmering point) and pour it 
gradually into a raw egg. The liquid is milky if the. yolk is 
used ; clear if only the white .is used. It has little taste, which 
is an advantage with many patients. This broth may be 
flavored with beef extract or hot prepared broth may be used 
in place of the hot water. 

Note : See discussion of the digestibility of raw egg under 
"Albuminous Beverages," page 305. 

calves' foot jelly 
100 grams=65 Calories. 

2 small calves' feet. Juice of one lemon. 

1 quart cold water. Rind of % lemon (yellow part 

3 cups sherry wine 1 (best To- only). 

paz). V 2 cup cut or cube sugar. 

Clean calves' feet and put into the cold water ; bring slowly 
to boiling point, and boil five hours ; skim if necessary, while 
cooking. Strain through cheese-cloth and allow it to stand 
until firm and remove the fat. 

Mix lemon juice, wine, the whites and shells of eggs, sugar 
and beat all together until the sugar is dissolved, then add to 
the jelly. Place on the fire in an enamel stewpan and stir 
constantly until the mixture is very hot, but not boiling ; 
strain through a jelly bag made of cotton flannel and allow 
the jelly to drip through same slowly. Pour into molds or 
glass jars and put in cold place to harden. 

1 Several varieties may be made by substituting the different flavors, brandy, 
rum, port wine, champagne, orange and lemon juice. Sugar may be omitted 
from above recipe and one-half fowl, one-half stick of cinnamon and one cup> 
of Rhine wine added. 



130 ANIMAL FOODS 

Calves' foot jelly, scientifically prepared in the flavors of 
sherry, port, rum, cognac and plain, ready for immediate 
use,, is put up by Gordon & Dilworth, New York. 

CHICKEN JELLY 

3 pounds chicken. 8 peppercorns. 

1 quart cold water. Salt. 

Prepare chicken as for chicken broth and cut flesh and 
bone into small pieces. Put into saucepan with cold water 
and peppercorns and let stand one-half hour. Bring slowly 
to the boiling point, remove scum and cook five or six hours 
or until meat is very tender and water is reduced to one pint. 
While cooking keep it below the boiling point. Skim fre- 
quently while cooking, strain through double thickness of 
cheese-cloth, season to taste and let stand until firm. Re- 
move fat, reheat and turn into glass fruit jars or individual 
molds and cool ; put in ice box until jellied. 

Additional flavor may be added if desired. A stalk of 
celery or a small piece of bay leaf may be cooked with the 
chicken. 

Note : Mutton Broth Jelly may be treated in the same way. 

BEEF JELLY 

3 pounds solid meat from the 4 quarts cold water. 

shoulder or shin. 2 teaspoons salt. 

3 pounds bone from same. 

Take off the dried skin and any soft or bloody portion. 
Cut the meat into small pieces and put it with the cracked 
bone into an earthen jar. Cover with the cold water. Set 
in slow oven and cook from eight to twelve hours. Strain 
through a colander. Add salt to taste ; cool quickly. When 
cold remove the fat. Serve cold as a jelly, or reheat in 
double boiler. 

Sweetbreads 

Among epicures sweetbreads are considered a dainty and 
are certainly a most acceptable food for the sick, as they are 



MEAT 131 

easily digested, but they must not be used to excess on ac- 
count of the large amount of uric acid which they produce. 

Definition. — Sweetbreads are the pancreas and thymus 
glands of the calf, the word being used for either one or 
both organs. The thymus glands are removed and used for 
food while the animal lives on milk. The pancreas of the 
calf is sometimes called stomach sweetbread and the thymus 
gland the neck or throat sweetbread. The latter is con- 
sidered somewhat more easily digested than the former. 

Digestibility. — It is an error to state that sweetbreads are 
more digestible because they contain digestive ferments in 
life, for these are destroyed by cooking. The tenderness of 
these bodies is doubtless due to the delicate character of the 
connective tissue and to the soft character of the gland tis- 
sue itself, which is rich in nucleo-protein. The presence of 
this nuclein is objectionable in cases of gout and other uric 
acid disorders, but this is no contra-indication for an oc- 
casional use of them by invalids. 

Energy Value of Sweetbreads 

100 grams (2> l / 2 oz.) sweetbreads =176 Calories 

1 pair sweetbreads, medium size (8 oz.) .. ..=399 Calories 

One pair sweetbreads, medium size (8 oz.), when cooked, 
freed from membrane, pipe, etc., and cut into cubes, meas- 
ures three-fourths cup. 

TO PREPARE SWEETBREADS 
(To Parboil.) 

Remove from paper as soon as received from market, 
plunge into cold water and allow to stand one hour. Drain. 
Place immediately in boiling salted water to cover, allowing 
one-half tablespoon each of salt and vinegar to a pair of 
sweetbreads. Simmer twenty minutes ; again drain and 
plunge into cold water that they may keep white and firm. 
Free fat and veins from membrane and serve as desired. 

Sweetbreads are always, prepared in this way for subse- 
quent cooking and are spoken of as parboiled. 



132 ANIMAL FOODS 

BROILED SWEETBREADS 

Parboil and cut in halves cross-wise. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, place on a greased fine wire broiler and broil 
five minutes over a clear fire. As soon as sweetbread is 
heated brush both sides with a little melted butter. Serve 
with creamed butter to which has been added a little lemon 
juice or simply spread with soft butter. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS NO. I, 284 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yz tablespoon butter. % cup milk. 

Vi tablespoon flour. l /z cup sweetbreads. 

Melt the butter, add flour and pour on gradually the scald- 
ing milk. Cook thoroughly and season. Add the parboiled 
sweetbreads cut in small pieces, reheat and serve on toast 
and garnish with parsley. 

Note: For scalloped sweetbreads put creamed sweet- 
breads in small baking dish ; cover with cracker crumbs and 
dot with bits of butter; bake until crumbs are a golden 
brown. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS NO. II, IO95 CALORIES 1 
(Three Servings.) 

1 cup thin cream or milk. Yz teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons butter. Y\ cup sweetbreads. 
2 tablespoons flour. 

Parboil sweetbreads and cut into one-half inch cubes. 
Blend flour with a little cold milk to make a smooth mixture ; 
scald cream in double boiler, add the flour mixture and cook 
thoroughly. Just before serving add the prepared sweet- 
breads, salt and butter. Serve hot on toasted rounds, and 
garnish with parsley, or use as a filling for Swedish tim- 
bales. 

Note : May use equal proportions of cold cooked chicken 
and sweetbreads, reheat and serve in the cream sauce. 

1 Calculated with cream. 



POULTRY AND GAME 133 

FRICASSEED SWEETBREADS, 21 4 CALORIES 1 

(Three Servings.) 

Parboil and cut sweetbread into one-half inch pieces. 

Make a sauce using : 

2 teaspoons butter. % cup hot strong chicken broth. 

1 teaspoon flour. % cup cream. 

Yz teaspoon lemon juice. Salt and pepper. 

Melt the butter, add the flour, allow it to simmer until 
a golden brown, then add the hot broth gradually, stirring 
constantly, lastly the cream. Season with salt, pepper and 
lemon juice. A speck of curry powder may be added if 
desired. 

Put the cut sweetbread into the sauce, simmer five minutes 
and serve on sippets or squares of dry toast ; garnish with 
parsley. 

SWEETBREADS WITH PEAS 
1 cup of canned peas = 100 Calories. 
Parboil and broil sweetbreads, arrange in center of plat- 
ter and serve the peas (cooked and seasoned) around them. 

Poultry and Game 2 

Poultry and game are generally classed together, poultry 
being applied to domesticated birds raised for their flesh or 
eggs or both.. Wild birds are all classed as game. 

Digestibility. — Chicken may be introduced early into the 
dietary of the convalescent, for it is one of the most easily 
digested of meats. Chicken is more easily digested than 
fowl. The white meat of the breast is particularly free from 
fat, has short tender fibers and small amount of connective 
tissues, and is therefore somewhat more rapidly digested 
than the dark meat. 

Squab, quail, pigeons and the white meat of turkey are 
also fairly easily digested. 

1 Calculated without the sweetbreads. 

2 For further information, note "Poultry as Food." Farmer's Bulletin, No. 
182, Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



134 ANIMAL FOODS 

Duck and goose contain a large quantity of fat and are 
not as rapidly digested. 

Game is comparatively easy of digestion but too highly 
flavored for most invalids. The cuts from the breast are 
the best for an invalid. 

Test for Selecting a Chicken. — The cartilage at the end of 
the breast bone must be soft and pliable, the skin smooth 
and the feet soft. Chickens are used for broiling and roast- 
ing. 

Test for Selecting a Fowl. — The cartilage at the end of the 
breast bone is firm, the feet are hard and dry. An old fowl, 
not too fat, is best for broths. One from six to eight months 
is best for roasting, or where the meat is desired. The pro- 
portion of bone to meat in chicken under this age makes 
them expensive eating. 

Principles of Cooking. — In general same as for cooking of 
other meats. 

When the layer of meat over the bones is very thin, as in 
young chickens or squabs, broiling is preferable to roasting. 

An old fowl can sometimes be made tender without having 
all its flavor stewed into the broth, by cooking in a small 
amount of water in a double boiler for a long time, or in a 
fireless cooker. 

A general rule for roasting chickens or turkeys is twenty 
minutes to the pound. Ducks and geese, having tougher 
fibers, require a longer time for thorough cooking. 

GENERAL RULE FOR CLEANING POULTRY 

Cut off head and feet and pull out pin feathers. If the 
bird has not been drawn, make an incision below the breast 
just large enough to admit the hand (or finger for the small 
birds). With the hand or finger, draw all the entrails out at 
one time. Care must be taken not to break them, especially 
the gall-bladder. Turn down the skin of the neck, cut off 
neck close to body and pull out wind pipe and crop. Cut 
out the oil bag which lies just above the tail. Cut through 
skin of the leg a little below the joint (not cutting the 



POULTRY AND GAME 135 

tendons), press against table and break and pull off foot with 
tendons, which will come out in breaking if chicken is young. 
In fowls you may have to pull them out separately with a 
skewer. Singe the bird by holding it over a tablespoon of 
burning alcohol, or paper (holding over sink). Wash by 
allowing the cold water to run through and over it and dry 
well inside and out and prepare further for broiling or 
roasting, etc. 

DRY DRESSING FOR STUFFING, IIO9 CALORIES 

\y 2 cup stale bread crumbs. Powdered sage, marjoram, and 

Vz cup butter (not melted). summer savory. 

Salt, pepper. 

Thoroughly mix ingredients and season to taste. Fill in 
both openings of bird, sew the skin at both ends, turn the skin 
of neck over and fasten to back. Oysters may be added to 
dressing if desired, omitting all seasonings but the salt and 
pepper. 

TO TRUSS POULTRY 

After stuffing and sewing up the openings, draw the 
thighs close to body and secure in place by putting a skewer 
through them and the body. Fold wings under back by tak- 
ing end of wing and placing in under back, which fastens it. 
Cross the drum-sticks and tie with long string and fasten to 
the tail, tying string so that it will hold thighs close to the 
body. Cut and remove string before serving the bird. 

ROAST POULTRY 

Clean, stuff and truss bird and place it on its back on 
rack in dripping pan. Rub surface with salt and a butter and 
flour mixture (mix three tablespoons of butter and two table- 
spoons of flour and stir until creamy). Dredge bottom of 
pan with flour. Place in hot oven and in about ten minutes 
the flour should be well browned, then reduce heat of oven 
and cook more slowly. Baste every ten minutes with one- 
fourth cup of butter melted in three-fourths cup of water ; 



136 ANIMAL FOODS 

after this has been exhausted use fat in pan. Turn bird often 
while cooking that it may brown evenly. When cooked, re- 
move to hot platter and make the gravy. 

A chicken four to five pounds will require about one and 
one-half to two hours for cooking. Turkey (nine pounds) 
two and one-half to three hours. Ducks (domestic), one to 
one and one-half hours. Duck (wild), twenty-five to thirty 
minutes. Goose (nine pounds), two to two and one-half 
hours. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST POULTRY 

Clean the heart, liver and gizzard by removing the mem- 
brane, blood vessels and clotted blood from the heart. Cut 
liver from the gall bladder and remove all green on liver. 
Clean gizzard and cut through edge carefully to sac, and re- 
move, taking care not to break it, wash giblets (that is, the 
heart, liver, gizzard) and the neck and put on to cook in two 
and one-half cups of cold water ; cook slowly at the simmer- 
ing point until tender. 

After chicken has been removed from pan, pour off all the 
fat, strain and return to pan four tablespoons of fat and add 
four tablespoons of flour, brown together thoroughly and 
add gradually the water the giblets were- cooked in. Cook 
five minutes, stirring constantly. Add hot water if gravy is 
too thick and salt and pepper to taste and the finely-chopped 
giblets. 

TO BONE BIRDS 

Select bird that is fresh-killed, dry-picked and not drawn. 
Cut off head and feet, singe and remove pin feathers, crop 
and oil bag. Cut off wings close to body. Lay on board breast 
down and cut to bone the entire length of spine. Scrape the 
flesh from backbone the entire length of body, working to- 
ward the breast, cutting the tendinous portions as reached. 
When edge of breastbone is reached, care must be taken 
not to break through skin. Scrape flesh from second joint 



POULTRY AND GAME 137 

and drumsticks, laying flesh back and pulling out bone (as 
if turning glove off inside out). 

Scrape flesh from lower part of back and withdraw from 
carcass. Put flesh in original shape and broil, following 
directions for broiled quail ; or stuff bird with stale bread 
crumbs and tie in shape with string and bake in hot oven. 
When cooked, remove string and tie in shape with a bit of 
white baby ribbon and garnish with parsley and lemon. 

BROILED QUAIL 
100 grams=160 Calories. 
Clean, cut off the head and feet, singe and wipe with a 
damp cloth. With a sharp-pointed knife split the quail down 
the back, beginning at back of neck and cutting through the 
backbone the entire length of bird. Lay bird open and re- 
move contents. Cut through tendons at joints. Wipe thor- 
oughly. Season w r ith salt and pepper, rub thickly with soft- 
ened butter and dredge with flour. Broil ten minutes over 
clear coals. Serve on hot buttered toast. Garnish with toast 
points, parsley and currant jelly. 

BROILED SQUABS 
100 grams=390 Calories. 
Prepare, cook and serve the same as quail. 

BROILED SMALL BIRDS 

All small birds can be broiled according to the directions 
for quail, remembering that for very small ones it takes a 
very bright fire, as the birds should only be browned and the 
time required for cooking is brief. 

BIRDS BROILED IN PAPER 

See chapter on Meats and follow directions for "Chops 
Broiled in Paper." Page 120. 

BROILED CHICKEN 
100 grams=108 Calories 1 
Dress for broiling, following directions given under 

1 Edible portion. 



138 ANIMAL FOODS 

Broiled Quail. Season well with salt and pepper and rub all 
over with softened butter, especially breast and legs. Put in a 
well-greased broiler and broil over a clear fire about fifteen 
minutes, turning often. The flesh side must be exposed to 
the fire the greater part of the time as the skin side burns 
easily. When chicken is nicely browned, place in a dripping- 
pan, skin side down, in a moderate oven twelve minutes. Put 
on a hot dish, season with salt, pepper and butter and serve 
immediately. 

This rule is for a chicken weighing about two and a half 
pounds, yielding 725 calories. 

CREAMED CHICKEN, 201 CALORIES 1 

(Individual Rule.) 

Vi cup cold cooked chicken. y 2 tablespoon butter. 

Speck celery salt. V 2 tablespoon flour. 

Salt. Y\ cup rich milk. 
Pepper. 

Melt butter in saucepan, add flour and gradually pour on 
the scalded milk. Cook thoroughly. Add chicken cut into 
dice and seasonings. Heat well and serve on toast rounds, 
garnished with toast points and parsley ; or use as a filling 
for Swedish timbales. 

Xote : Chicken may be used that is removed from chicken 
broth when it is tender. Chicken broth may replace part of 
the milk in making the sauce. 

SCALLOPED CHICKEX 

Put creamed chicken into a small baking dish, cover with 
dried bread or cracker crumbs, dot with small pieces of but- 
ter and brown in oven. 

JELLIED CHICKEN, ABOUT IOO CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon gelatin. J4 cup chopped chicken. 

2 tablespoons cold water. Salt, celerv salt. 

8 tablespoons strong chicken 
broth. 
1 Calculated with \ l / 2 ounce of fowl. 



POULTRY AND GAME 139 

Soak gelatin in the cold water five minutes, add the boil- 
ing hot broth and stir until dissolved. Season to taste. Dip 
mold into cold water and pour in enough gelatin to cover 
bottom. Put in ice box to harden and when firm decorate 
with a slice of hard-cooked egg; or cook a couple slices of 
carrots and cut a small round from one slice to form the 
center of a daisy cutting the other slice into strips to repre- 
sent the petals and put in bottom of mold, add a few drops 
of gelatin to keep the decoration in place and put on ice to 
harden. Mix the chicken with remainder of gelatin and pour 
into mold and set to harden. Serve on leaf of lettuce or 
garnish with parsley. 

LARDED GROUSE 

Clean and wash the grouse. Lard the breast and legs. 
Run a small skewer through the legs and tail. Tie firmly 
with twine. Dredge with salt, rub the breast with softened 
butter, then dredge with flour. Put into a quick oven. If 
desired rare, cook twenty minutes ; if well done, thirty min- 
utes. Serve on hot platter garnished with parsley and Bread 
Sauce. 

LARDED QUAIL 

The directions for cooking and serving are the same as for 
grouse, except that quail cooks in fifteen minutes. Larding 
gives richness to dry meat that does not have enough fat of 
its own. 

BREAD SAUCE FOR GAME, 527 CALORIES 

Crumbs 
I/3 cup coarse dried bread % small onion. 

crumbs. 1 tablespoon butter. 

V 2 tablespoon butter. 

Sauce 
1 cup milk. Salt. 

% cup fine bread crumbs. Pepper. 

Prepare Crumbs. Dry in a warm oven ; sift. Cook the 



140 



ANIMAL FOODS 



coarse bread crumbs in the butter until a delicate brown and 
use to cover breast of bird. 

Prepare Sauce. Put the fine bread crumbs, milk and 
onion on to scald ten minutes, then skim out the onion, add 
the butter and seasoning and serve as a gravy for birds. 

Fish 

Fish is one of the important protein foods. The term is 
usually applied to all kinds of water animals used for food. 
They may be classified as follows : 



Classes . 



1. Scaly or Vertebrate 



White or lean, e. g. 



2. Shell-fish. 



Dark or oily, e. 



Mollusks, e. g. 



Crustaceans, e. g. 



Halibut 

Haddock 

Flounder 

Turbot 

White Fish 

Smelt 

Cod 



Salmon 

Mackerel 

Blue Fish 

Shad 

Herring 

Eel 



Oysters 
Clams 



Crabs 

Lobsters 

Shrimps 

Turtles 

Terrapin 



In the white-fleshed fish the fat is found principally in 
the liver. This is the only class usually considered in the 
cookery for the sick. 

In the dark-fleshed fish the fat is found distributed 






FISH 141 

throughout the body. A considerable amount of the protein 
of fish is in the form of gelatin. Fish is less rich in ex- 
tractives and hence less stimulating than meat. 

Digestibility. — The digestibility of scaly fish depends upon 
the quantity of fat present and the coarseness of the fiber. 

Oily (fatty) fish should not be eaten by those of weak 
digestion or given to the sick. In some cases it may be 
served during advanced convalescence. 

Salt fish is not as easily digested as fresh fish, as the fibers 
are likely to be hardened in the process of salting. Salt cod- 
fish is an exception, for if finely divided and served in an ap- 
petizing manner it is a valuable and inexpensive form of 
protein food. As a rule, dried, smoked or pickled fish should 
not be given to the sick. 

By some persons, fish cannot be eaten without causing in- 
digestion. The fat sometimes disagrees, causing acidity and 
eructations of the stomach. 

Composition. — In composition fish is similar to meat, con- 
taining protein, extractives, fats, mineral matter and water. 

Nutritive Value. — The chief nutritive constituents of fish, 
as of meat, are their proteins and fats. Their energy value 
depends largely on the amount of fat they contain. 

When Fish are in Season. — Halibut, haddock, flounder and 
cod are in season all the year ; turbot, October to May ; shad, 
February to May ; salmon, May to September ; blue fish and 
mackerel, May to October ; sturgeon, April to September ; 
trout (lake), April to August. 

Test for Freshness. — In fresh fish the gills are red, the 
eyes bright and protruding, the flesh is firm and there is no 
unpleasant odor. The first two tests disappear after the fish 
has been out of water a short time and although the flavor 
of the fish is not as good, it is not spoiled. But if the last two 
tests are not present the fish should not be used. Great care 
should be taken that fish is perfectly fresh, in season, and 
thoroughly cooked, or it will be indigestible and sometimes 
poisonous. Unless these conditions are known to exist, fish 
should not be served to the sick. 



142 ANIMAL FOODS 

"In many European cities fish are sold alive, the customer 
selecting his fish as it swims in a tank. It would seem that 
this excellent method might be used in our cities, especially 
those situated on the seaboard, at least for customers who 
are fastidious and who are willing to pay an extra price for 
a special article when it is warranted." (Farmer's Bulletin 
No. 375.) 

Principles to be Observed in Cooking Fish. — As in meat, 
albumin is the principal constituent to be considered in the 
cooking of fish. Hence the same principles which apply to 
the cooking of meat apply also to the cooking of fish. 

See page 17, for effect of heat on albumin. 

Objective Points and Methods: 

To Retain the Juice. — Baking, Broiling, Boiling and Fry- 
ing. 

To Extract the Juice. — Soup. 

To Extract and Retain the Juice. — Chowder. 

Energy Value of Fish 
See Table, under names of fish, as Halibut, Salmon, etc. 
See Table, page 58, for energy value of other ingredients. 

BROILED FISH 

White fish, trout, small blue fish, mackerel, shad and small 
cod should be split down the back and broiled whole and if 
preferred, cut off the head and tail. Halibut and salmon 
should be cut into inch slices and turned often while broil- 
ing. 

Clean Fish. Wipe with a cloth wet in salt-water and dry 
on a fish towel. Season ; oily fish need only salt and pepper, 
but dry white fish should be spread with oil and salt and 
pepper before broiling. Use a double wire broiler greased 
well with salt pork rind. Put thickest edge of fish next 
middle of broiler, turn often while broiling; with split fish 
sear the flesh side first and then turn. 

The time of cooking will vary with the thickness of fish. 
Fish is done when flesh separates easily from the bone. 



FISH 143, 

The fire should be hot and clear. When ready to serve, 
loosen the fish from broiler on each side. Open broiler, slide 
fish or platter, having flesh side uppermost. Spread with 
butter, salt and pepper. Garnish with parsley and slices of 
lemon. Or serve with butter cream and a border of potato 
balls. 

Xote: "Fish Sauces" for butter cream. Page 145. 

BAKED FISH 

Clean fish. Wipe with cloth wet in salted water, dry on a 
fish towel and bake on a greased fish sheet, placed in a drip- 
ping pan. A strip of cotton cloth, by which it may be lifted 
from the pan, may be substituted for the fish sheet. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, brush over with melted butter, dredge 
with flour and place around fish small pieces of fat salt pork. 
Bake in hot oven until fish separates from bone when lifted 
with fork. Baste every ten minutes. Serve plain with 
melted butter, or with egg sauce. 

Xote : "Fish Sauces" for egg sauce. Page 146. 

HALIBUT A LA CREOLE, 406 CALORIES 

Yl pound of halibut. 1 clove. 

V2 cup tomatoes. Y* teaspoon sugar. 

Ya cup water. Y\ tablespoon butter. 

Small piece onion. Yi tablespoon flour. 

Sprig parsley. Salt and pepper. 

Tomato Sauce. Blend tomatoes, water, onion, parsley, 
clove and sugar and cook ten minutes. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and gradually pour on the 
hot mixture. Add salt and pepper to taste, cook five minutes 
and strain. 

Clean fish. Wipe with cloth wet with cold salted water 
and dry thoroughly. Put in baking tin, pour around half 
the sauce and bake until fish separates easily from bone, 
basting often. Serve on hot platter, pour around it the re- 
mainder of the sauce and garnish with parsley. 



144 ANIMAL FOODS 

CREAMED FISH 
(Individual Rule.) 

l A cup cooked fish, remove skin ^ cup cream or white sauce 
and bone, and flake the flesh (note Fish Sauces, p. 145). 

with a fork ; season with 
salt, pepper, and a little 
lemon juice. 

Blend the fish and white sauce, reheat and serve on toast, 
garnish with parsley and half-slice of lemon ; or serve in 
tread cases made of slices of bread cut two inches thick, 
round off edges, scoop out center, leaving case, brush with 
softened butter and brown in oven. 

Note : White sauce may be poured on one egg yolk before 
adding fish. 

SCALLOPED FISH 

Put creamed fish into small baking dish, cover with dried 
bread or cracker crumbs ; dot with bits of butter and brown 
in oven. 

CREAMED CODFISH 

Flake salt codfish into small pieces, remove the bone ; the 
fish should be put into several cold waters to remove some of 
the salt. Prepare the potatoes, cutting them into eighths, or 
if small into fourths, add the shredded fish and boiling water 
to cover ; cook until potatoes are tender, drain off the water 
(saving it for the sauce), add a little butter and season with 
pepper, mash lightly and heap in center of platter. 

SAUCE 

1 pint fish and potato water. 4 tablespoons flour. 

4 tablespoons butter. Pepper. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and gradually pour on the 
potato water. Cook thoroughly, season with pepper, pour 
about the codfish and garnish with slices of hard-cooked 
egg and parsley. 



FISH SAUCES 145 

DIABETIC CREAM CODFISH, 276 CALORIES 

y 2 cup flaked codfish. y 2 teaspoon gluten flour. 

1 cup milk or cream. Yolk 1 egg. 

l A teaspoon butter. Pepper. 

Soak the fish in two waters ; melt the butter, add the flour 
and gradually pour on the scalded milk; cook thoroughly, 
add codfish and egg, cook five minutes, season and serve on 
gluten toast or fresh bread. 

DIABETIC CREAMED FISH 

l A cup cooked fish. y 2 cup cream sauce. 

Salt, pepper, lemon juice. Gluten bread crumbs. 

Season fish with salt, pepper and lemon juice, add cream 
sauce, put into ramikins or cups, sprinkle with gluten 
crumbs and bake. 

DIABETIC BAKED FISH 

For baked fish make a dressing with one cup of gluten 
bread crumbs, one-half an onion, chopped fine, one table- 
spoon celery, chopped fine, one tablespoon butter, pepper, 
salt, lemon juice and parsley. Stuff fish and bake. 

DIABETIC PAN BROILED FISH 

Fish should be rubbed with salt and pepper and dipped in 
gluten flour, or rolled in egg and gluten cracker crumbs. 
Saute (or fry) in oil or butter. 

Fish Sauces 

BUTTER CREAM 

Cream a little butter; season with salt, cayenne, lemon 
juice (speck salt and pepper, one-half teaspoon lemon juice). 
Add finely minced parsley or chopped pickle, such as cucum- 
ber or olive. Prepare quantity according to size of fish. Put 
it on the fish and place in oven a moment until butter is 
melted. 



146 ANIMAL FOODS 

CREAM OR WHITE SAUCE, 120 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

y 2 tablespoon butter. y, cup hot milk. 

V 2 tablespoon flour. Salt. 

Melt butter, add flour, remove from fire and gradually 
pour on the milk, stirring constantly. Bring to the boiling 
point, cook thoroughly and season. 

Xote : Extra milk may be added if a thinner sauce is 
desired, using one-half cup milk. 

DIABETIC CREAM SAUCE, 128 CALORIES 

y 2 cup milk. Salt. 

1 teaspoon Hoyt's gluten flour. Cayenne. 

1 teaspoon butter. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and gradually pour on the 
scalded milk ; cook thoroughly and season. 

EGG SAUCE, 44O CALORIES 

2*/2 tablespoons butter. Speck pepper. 

\y 2 tablespoons flour. ^ cup hot water. 

y teaspoon salt. 2 eggs. 

Melt one-half the butter ; add flour and seasoning and 
gradually pour on the hot water. Boil five minutes and add 
remainder of butter in small pieces. Add two hard-cooked 
eggs cut into one-fourth inch slices, or the beaten yolks may 
be added to hot sauce with one-half teaspoon lemon juice. 

Note : One hard-cooked egg chopped fine or a yolk 
slightly beaten may be added to cream sauce. Also a few 
drops of lemon juice if desired. 

TOMATO SAUCE, JJ CALORIES 

l /> tablespoon butter. Few grains salt. 

y 2 tablespoon flour. Few grains pepper. 

*4 cup strained tomato juice. 

Brown butter, add flour and stir until slightly browned ; 
remove from fire and, stirring constantly, gradually pour on 
the heated tomato. Cook thoroughly and add salt and pepper. 



SHELL FISH 147 

Note : A sprig of parsley, one clove and a small piece of 
onion may be added to tomato while heating. 

CUCUMBER RELISH, 1 5 CALORIES 

Grate one-half cucumber and add a small piece of red pep- 
per chopped fine ; season with salt, pepper and vinegar and 
serve with fish. 

HOLLANDAISE, 460 CALORIES 

1 egg yolk. }i teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons butter. White pepper. 

y 2 tablespoon vinegar. 3 tablespoons boiling water. 

Put one tablespoon butter in top of double boiler. Add the 
other ingredients, place over hot water and stir constantly 
while butter is melting. Add second tablespoon of butter 
and stir until melted, repeating this process until all butter is 
used. As soon as the mixture begins to thicken remove from 
hot water. Vary by adding a little chopped parsley or grated 
horse-radish root. 

Shell-Fish 

MOLLUSKS AND CRUSTACEANS 

Only the mollusks are considered in this book, because the 
crustaceans not being easily digested are not suitable for an 
invalid diet. 

Crustaceans. — The most popular of the crustaceans are 
the crab and the lobster. They are highly nutritious, but at 
the same time difficult to digest. 

Mollusks 

Oysters. — Oysters are a valuable food for invalids and 
convalescents. Their nutritive value is not high, but they are 
easily digested and possess a delicate flavor which is ac- 
ceptable to most palates. 

Composition. — The composition of oysters, reckoned as 



148 ANIMAL FOODS 

"solids," i. e., removed from the shell, is as follows : 88.3% 
water, 6.0% protein, 1.3% fat and 3.3% carbohydrate. 

The carbohydrate is in the form of glycogen, being found 
in the liver, which constitutes a large proportion of the oyster. 
Digestibility. — The soft part of the oyster or clam is made 
up largely of the stomach and liver and is easily digested 
when cooked in a variety of ways — broiling, roasting, stew- 
ing, panning and steaming — but not fried when served to 
the sick. 

The hard part of shellfish is the muscle which fastens the 
animal to the shell. This is rendered tougher by all forms of 
cooking ; therefore, when whole oysters are to be eaten, they 
are more easily digested when served raw or broiled slightly 
in the shell. They can be digested by fever patients and 
those suffering from many forms of gastric disorders. 

It is desirable in acute illness to serve only the soft part 
of the oyster, but in the later stages of convalescence the 
whole oyster may be served raw or in stew and soups, which 
are recommended on account of their liquid form and their 
warmth. 

When in Season. — Oysters are in season from September 
to May. During the rest of the year they are insipid and soft, 
and unfit for food. 

Principles to be Carefully Observed in Serving and Cook- 
ing Oysters for the Sick: 

I. Make every effort to have the oyster alive when used, 
or as fresh as can be obtained from a reliable dealer. 
Many serious cases of illness and even death have 
been caused by eating oysters so long dead that poison- 
ous substances had formed in them. Great care should 
also be taken that oysters are not procured from beds 
where the water has been contaminated in any way. 
"As it is in general impossible to learn their origin the 
rule of never eating them in the raw state is adopted 
by many. The practice of fattening or 'floating' oysters 
in fresh or in brackish water robs them of much of 
their fine flavor and since the most accessible supply 



OYSTERS 149 

of such water is at the outlet of streams, and as such 
streams are frequently polluted by sewage, many per- 
sons believe that this practice should be forbidden by 
law." 1 

2. Oysters contain an albuminous substance which in- 
creases in hardness with an increase of temperature, 
just as does the albumin of an egg. When oysters are 
cooked with reference to this albuminous substance, 
they are also cooked in the best possible manner with 
reference to their other constituents ; therefore sub- 
ject them to a low temperature, for a short time, bear- 
ing in mind that 160 to 180 degrees Fahrenheit is the 
cooking temperature of albumin. 

General rule is to remove the oyster from heat as soon 
as the body grows plump and the edges curl; if cooked be- 
yond this stage they are over-cooked. 

Varieties. — In Massachusetts the "Cape" Oyster is con- 
sidered the finest for serving raw. They come from Buz- 
zards Bay and the Cape. 

Clams. Clams are similar in composition to the oyster 
and same general rules followed in preparing and serving. 
They are much used for food and considered a great delicacy. 
They contain a tough portion that is not used in sick-room 
cookery, but the clear juice, on account of its digestibility 
and stimulating properties, is invaluable in the sick room. 
Clams are in season all the year around. 

Varieties. — There are two varieties, the hard and the soft 
shell clams. The hard shell are known as quahaugs. The 
small or round "little neck clams" take the place of "Cape" 
Oyster to serve raw when oysters are out of season. 

Energy Value of Oysters 

2 oysters = 14 Calories 

100 grams oysters = 50 Calories 

1 cup (solid) oysters (8 l / 2 oz.) =118 Calories 

See Table, page 58, for energy value of other ingredients. 

1 Farmer's Bulletin No. 375. 



150 ANIMAL FOODS 

RAW OYSTERS 

Wash, scrub the shells well under a stream of water with 
a vegetable brush. With a hammer break the thin edges of 
the shell so that a knife may be inserted to sever the muscle 
which holds the two parts of the shell together ; when this is 
cut remove the upper half and wipe the edges free from any 
grains of sand. Then sever the muscle which joins the oyster 
to the other shell, so that it may be easily lifted out without 
the necessity of cutting. Arrange six oysters on an oyster- 
plate on crushed ice and serve with salt, black pepper and 
lemon juice. A quarter of lemon cut lengthwise may be 
placed in the center of plate and a bit of parsley, 

OYSTERS ROASTED IN THE SHELL 

Wash the shells very carefully with a brush. Put them 
in a wire broiler over glowing coals, the round side of shell 
down so as to hold the juice. Cook them quickly, turning 
once or twice until the shell opens. They may also be cooked 
in a hot oven. When done remove the upper half of the shell ; 
season them quickly with salt, pepper and a tiny bit of but- 
ter and vinegar, if liked, and serve them while very hot. 

The true oyster flavor is delightfully developed by pre- 
paring in this way. They may also be served with melted 
butter, salt, pepper and lemon juice. 

TO WASH OYSTERS 

Place oysters in strainer over a bowl and pour one table- 
spoon of water over each one-half cup of oysters. Take each 
oyster up in lingers and remove any particles of shell that 
may adhere to tough muscle. 

PAN ROAST OYSTERS 

Wash oysters and put in saute pan or chafing dish and 
stir gently with spoon. When bodies grow plump and the 
edges curl remove from heat. Season with salt and pepper 
and a little butter and serve on rounds of toast, with eighth 



OYSTERS 151 

of lemon for individual dishes ; or serve on platter and 
garnish with toast points, watercress and lemon. 

BROILED OYSTERS, 308 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

4 oysters 4 teaspoons butter. 

J4 cup cracker crumbs. Salt and pepper. 

Select large oysters. Wash, drain and dry between towels. 
Melt butter. Season cracker crumbs with salt and pepper. 
With silver fork lift each oyster by tough muscle and dip 
first in butter, then in crumbs. Place on a buttered fine wire 
broiler and broil, turning often until brown and the juice be- 
gins to flow. Serve plain, garnished with parsley and a piece 
of lemon or prepare cream toast and sprinkle with fine 
chopped celery and place the broiled oysters on top. 

CREAMED OYSTERS, 2/6 CALORIES 1 

(Individual Rule.) 

8 oysters. y 2 cup rich milk or thin cream. 

1 tablespoon butter. Salt. 

1% tablespoon flour. White pepper. 

Wash, drain and dry oysters between towels. Melt butter 
and remove from fire, add the flour and gradually pour on 
the scalded milk. Season with salt and pepper. Cook thor- 
oughly. Add the oysters and heat until the edges curl and 
the bodies grow plump. Serve at once on rounds of toast 
garnished with toast points and parsley or in crisped "bread 
cases." See "Creamed Fish," page 144. 

CREAMED OYSTERS NO. II, ^37 CALORIES 2 

(Individual Rule.) 

Vz cup thin cream or rich milk. 1 teaspoon butter. 
1 tablespoon flour. 8 oysters. 

Va teaspoon salt. 

W T et the flour with a little cold milk ; scald the cream, add 
the flour and cook well. Just before serving add the drained 

1 Calculated with whole milk. 
a Calculated with thin cream. 



152 ANIMAL FOODS 

oysters and cook until they grow plump and the edges curl ; 
add the salt and butter. Serve in Swedish timbale shells, 
little scooped-out buns, or on rounds of toast. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS, 365 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

V2 cup oysters. Salt. 

54 cup cracker crumbs. Pepper. 

yi cup stale bread crumbs. x / 2 tablespoon thin cream. 

1 tablespoon melted butter. 1 tablespoon oyster liquor. 

Prepare the oysters. Stir together crumbs and melted but- 
ter. Butter a small baking dish and sprinkle part of the 
crumbs in it. Put in half the oysters, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, then a layer of crumbs, pour over enough cream 
or oyster liquor to moisten well, add the remaining oysters, 
season and finish with a layer of crumbs on top. Bake in a 
hot oven about ten minutes, till oysters are plump and crumbs 
browned. Serve hot. 

Never allow more than two layers as they will not cook 
evenly. A sprinkling of mace or nutmeg is considered an 
improvement by some. Sherry wine may be used in place 
of cream. 

OYSTER SOUP, 265 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

5^2 cup oysters. 1 tablespoon butter. 

54 cup water. ^4 tablespoon flour. 

y 2 cup milk. Grating of mace. 

Bit of onion. Salt and pepper. 

Scald the milk. Melt the butter, add the flour and gradu- 
ally pour on the scalded milk ; add mace and onion, and cook 
thoroughly. 

Put oysters in a strainer placed over a bowl, add water and 
carefully pick over oysters to remove particles of shell. Heat 
liquor which has drained from oysters to the boiling point, 
strain through' two thicknesses of cheese-cloth and return to 
saucepan, add oysters and cook until plump and edges curl. 



CLAMS 153 

Drain off liquor and add to soup. Season, add oysters and 
serve immediately. 

DIABETIC OYSTER SOUP, I40 CALORIES 

(Two Servings) 
One-half pint of oysters, heated in their own liquor; strain. 
Put in saucepan one-half teaspoonful butter and a scant half- 
teaspoonful gluten flour, add liquor and, when slightly thick, 
oysters, pepper and salt. For variety, add occasionally a 
tablespoon ful of cream. 

OYSTER STEW, 222 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

V2 cup oysters. % teaspoon salt- 

2 /z cup milk. Speck pepper. 

¥4 tablespoon water. l / 2 tablespoon butter.. 

Scald the milk. Put oysters in a strainer placed over Si 
bowl and add water. Carefully pick over oysters to remove 
particles of shell. Heat the liquor which has drained froirn 
the oysters to the boiling point and strain through the finest 
strainer and cheese-cloth; return to saucepan and put in the' 
oysters and simmer, but do not boil, until they begin to grow 
plump and the edges curl and separate. Strain the liquor 
into the scalded milk, season, add oysters and serve imme- 
diately. 

Clams. 

Energy Value of Clams 

y 2 dozen clams =40 Calories 

V/z ounces clam bouillon = 2 Calories- 

1 quart clam bouillon =23 Calories- 
See Table, page 58, for energy value of other ingredients'. 

LITTLE NECK CLAMS 

Serve raw on the half -shell in same manner as raw oysters. 

STEAMED CLAMS 

For steaming, clams should be bought in the shelL Wash 



154 ANIMAL FOODS 

in several waters, scrubbing thoroughly. Put into kettle, 
allowing one-fourth cup water to one quart clams. Cover 
closely and steam until clams partially open. Care should 
be taken not to overcook them. Serve with melted butter. A 
few drops of lemon juice may be added to butter. 

CLAM BROTH 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 dozen clams. 2 tablespoons cold water. 

Wash clams and scrub with a brush, changing the water 
several times. Put in saucepan, add water, cover and cook 
until shells open. Remove clams from shell, adding liquor 
which comes from them to liquor already in saucepan. 
Strain liquor through double thickness of cheese-cloth. Serve 
hot, cold or frozen. 

CLAM WATER 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup cold water. Clam broth. 1 

To the water add the required amount of the clam broth 
to make the strength desired. Serve hot, cold or frozen. 
When necessary, serve in small quantity and repeat at short 
intervals. 

Note: Clam broth served in several ways (as a variety) is 
invaluable in case of weak stomach, indigestion and general 
debility. 

CLAM WATER NO. II, 1 6 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

54 cup clam broth. 1 Pepper. 

1 tablespoon milk. % teaspoon butter. 

]/ 2 cup hot water. 

Blend the clam broth, milk and hot water, season with 
pepper and add the butter. Serve hot. 

1 Clam broth, ready for use, is put up in bottles and called Burnham's Clam 
Bouillon. 



CLAMS 155 

Note : The pepper and butter may be omitted when neces- 
sary. 

CLAM STEW, 246 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Y cup clam broth. % teaspoon salt. 

l A cup scalded milk. Speck pepper. 

1 tablespoon butter. Soft part of Y2 dozen clams. 

Y2 tablespoon flour. 

Melt butter, add flour, add gradually the scalded milk and 
clam broth and cook thoroughly. Season, add clams and 
serve hot. 

CLAM SOUP, 2/3 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Y2 dozen clams. Y2 tablespoon butter. 

Y% cup cold water. Y2 tablespoon flour. 

1 cup milk. Salt and pepper. 

Wash and scrub clams and put in kettle with cold water. 
Cook until shells open. Take from shell and cut off the 
tough parts ; save the soft parts for the soup and keep warm. 
Scald the milk. Melt the butter, add the flour and pour 
on gradually the hot milk. Cook thoroughly ; add soft parts 
of clams and juice, season with salt and pepper and serve 
hot immediately. 

CLAM BOUILLON, 41 CALORIES 2 

(Two Servings.) 

34 cup cold water. Salt. 

Y2 cup clam broth. 1 Pepper. 

Yz cup scalding milk. Celery Salt. 

Y2 teaspoon butter. White of egg or whipped 

cream. 

Blend the water and clam broth, heat to the boiling point, 
then add the scalding milk, the butter and stir well ; season 
with salt, pepper and celery salt to taste. A small quan- 

^lam broth, ready for use, is put up in bottles and called Burnham's Clam 
Bouillon. 

2 Calculated without white of egg or whipped cream. 



156 ANIMAL FOODS 

fity of cracker crumbs may be added to thicken it. Serve in 
heated bouillon cups and garnish with two teaspoons of 
whipped cream or well-beaten white of egg. 

CLAM BOUILLON BISQUE, 240 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

y 2 tablespoon butter. y 2 tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon chopped onion. 1 cup boiling water. 

V2 tablespoon chopped carrot. Yolk 1 egg. 

1 cup clam broth. % cup thin cream. 

Melt the butter, add the finely chopped onion and carrot, 
cover and cook until the onion and carrot are tender, stirring 
it occasionally. Add the flour, blending well ; then pour on 
gradually the boiling water and the clam broth. Cook five 
minutes, strain and return to saucepan. Mix the yolk of egg 
with the cream and add it slowly to the bisque. Pour into 
heated bouillon cups and serve with small oyster crackers. 

ALBUMINIZED CLAM WATER 

See ''Albuminized Beverages" for recipe. Page 305. 

CLAM BROTH NO. II 

See "Meat Broth and Jellies" for recipe. Page 128. 

CLAM BROTH ON TOAST 

See "Toast" for recipe. Page 221. 

CLAM FRAPPE 

See "Ices" for recipe. Page 295. 

CLAM SHERBET 

See "Sherbets" for recipe. Page 292. 

Eggs 1 

Composition. — Eggs contain protein, fat, mineral matter, 

1 For further information, note, "Eggs and Their Uses as Food," Farmer's 
Bulletin No. 128, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C 



EGGS 157 

water and fat-soluble and water-soluble vitamines (see page 
21). The composition of the hen's egg is as follows: 



PROTEIN 

% 


CARBOHY 
FAT DRATE 

% % 


- CAL- 
CIUM 

% 


PHOS- 
PHOROUS 

% 


IRON 

% 


Whole egg edible portion 13.4 
White 12.3 


10.5 .... 

0.2 .... 

33.3 .... 


0.067 
0.015 
0.137 


0.180 
0.014 
0.524 


0.003 
00001 


Yolk 157 


00086 







From this table it may be seen that the white of egg con- 
sists of eight-tenths water, the remaining portion being prin- 
cipally protein, with a little mineral matter ; the yolk is about 
half water, one-third fat and nearly one-sixth protein, with 
almost twice as much mineral matter as the white. 

Varieties. — By eggs the product of the domestic fowl is 
commonly meant. The eggs of the duck, goose, turkey, etc., 
are edible but are hardly suited for the sick, because of their 
stronger flavor. The color of the shell is due to a pigment and 
has no connection with the composition of the egg. Other 
things being equal, the edible portions of brown-shelled and 
white-shelled eggs have the same food value. 

Digestibility. — Eggs are easily digested and very thor- 
oughly absorbed in the intestines. If the absorption is de- 
layed, decomposition follows with production of hydrogen 
sulphide and ammonia, which causes considerable gastro- 
enteric disturbance. The yolk is usually the cause of this 
disturbance. The digestibility of an egg depends upon its 
freshness and the manner in which it is cooked. 1 Careless- 
ness in cooking and serving may make an egg difficult of 
digestion and unappetizing, when if properly cooked it 
would be more palatable and easier to digest. Raw eggs 
are added to various foods, as milk and broth, etc., to give 
extra nutriment. Eggs are freely prescribed for those suf- 
fering from loss of flesh and strength, as the convalescent, 
anaemic, or tubercular. 

A soft-cooked egg digests very quickly. A hard-cooked 

1 See Albumin, p. 17. 



158 ANIMAL FOODS 

egg as commonly cooked is slower to digest, but cooked at 
proper temperature and chopped very fine will digest about 
as quickly as a soft egg. 

Nutritive Value. — Eggs are a very nutritious food, com- 
parable with meat, milk, cheese and other animal foods. 
They are not a cheap food but their nutritive value is such 
that they furnish a good return for the money expended. 
Many persons will be satisfied with an egg who would not be 
with the equivalent food value in the form of meat, while 
eggs are valuable for giving variety to the diet and for furn- 
ishing an easily digested protein food, especially for the 
sedentary. For children they are much better than meat, be- 
cause the fat is an emulsified form and hence easily digested, 
because of their ash constituents, and because they do not 
contain the stimulating extractives which are present in 
meat. The yolk is rich in compounds of iron, phosphorus, 
calcium and magnesium. The protein of egg yolk is com- 
bined with lecithin, a phosphorized fat which has come to 
be regarded as an important constituent of food, especially 
for the growing animal. Egg yolk is a valuable source of 
both the fat-soluble and the water-soluble vitamines. Egg 
yolks are frequently prescribed for invalids requiring an 
easily assimilated, concentrated food. It should be remem- 
bered that when fat is barred from the diet, egg yolk should 
not be given. 

Egg white is valuable chiefly as a source of protein. Be- 
cause of its mild flavor it can be combined with many sub- 
stances, especially milk and other beverages (see "Al- 
buminous Beverages," page 305). 

Principles to be Observed in Cooking. — The principal con- 
stituent of the egg white is albumin, which should be cooked 
in such a manner as to require the least possible expenditure 
of force in digestion. Those who are ill cannot afford to 
waste energy, and whether they are forced to do so or not de- 
pends much upon those who prepare their food. 

Effect of Temperature on Albumin. — See "Albumin," page 
17. 



EGGS 159 

The proper cooking temperature of egg albumin is 160 to 
180 degrees Fahrenheit, when it is found to be tender, soft, 
jelly-like and in an easily digested state. 

But cooked at the boiling point of water, 212 degrees 
Fahrenheit, albumin is found to be firm, compact, tough and 
difficult of digestion. With this knowledge we can appreciate 
the necessity of cooking eggs at a temperature below that of 
boiling water. It is often advisable to cook the white and 
yolk of eggs separately, as the yolk when hard-cooked (at 
proper temperature) and mealy is more easily digested than 
the soft-cooked yolk and the white more easily digested soft- 
cooked. 

Suggestions. — Eggs should be kept in a cool, dry place. 
Always wash eggs just before using. When using several 
eggs break them separately in a saucer to test the quality of 
each. 

In beating fresh eggs to a stiff froth the albumin entraps 
the air, forming bubbles which expand and stiffen when 
blended with batter and dough and exposed to heat thus mak- 
ing the food light and spongy. Stale eggs lose this quality 
of frothiness. 

Test for Fresh Eggs. — To test the freshness of an egg hold 
it in front of an electric light or a candle in a dark room. If 
the egg is perfectly translucent throughout it is fresh. 

The principle upon which the various methods of preserv- 
ing eggs are based, is the covering of the surface of the egg 
with a preparation which prevents air from entering the egg 
and carrying with it the bacteria which cause decomposition. 

Energy Value of an Egg 1 

Calories 

1 egg (with shell) average size 74 

1 egg (without shell) average size 74 

1 white of egg average size 17 

1 yolk of egg average size 60 

CODDLED EGG (FOR INFANTS ), 74 CALORIES 

In a cup or sniall saucepan boil one cupful of water to one 

1 Range from 60 to 100 calories according to size of egg. 



i6o ANIMAL FOODS 

egg. Remove pan from fire and put in egg. Cover closely 
and allow to stand seven to eight minutes. The egg cooks 
slowly in the water, which gradually cools. The white should 
be jellied and the yolk should be soft. 

For a delicate digestion the white only should be given, 
with salt ; it can be easily separated from the yolk. 

SOFT COOKED EGGS NO. I. 

Wash one egg and put it in a small saucepan of boiling 
water to cover ; remove to back of stove, or where the water 
will keep very hot but not boil. Cook seven to ten minutes, 
according to consistency desired. Serve in slightly heated 
cups. 

Note : A stone crock is nice to use, as it keeps more even 
heat. A double boiler may be used, putting boiling water 
in top and bottom. Set on back of stove and cook six to 
seven minutes, according to size of egg. 

Care must be taken that the size of utensil is in accordance 
with the number of eggs to be cooked so that the cold eggs 
will lower the temperature of the boiling water. Keep tem- 
perature about 1 60 degrees Fahrenheit or a little above. 

SOFT COOKED EGGS NO. II 

Wash one egg and put it in a small saucepan of cold water 
to cover. Bring just to boiling point, remove and serve in 
slightly heated cups. 

HARD COOKED EGGS 

Follow directions for soft cooked eggs No. 1, allowing egg 
to remain in water forty-five minutes. Chop fine and add 
one-half teaspoon butter and a few grains salt, serve in 
slightly heated cups. 

STEAMED EGGS 

Butter an egg shirrer or a small sauce-plate and pour in 
the eggs. Salt, place in steamer over boiKng water and 



EGGS 161 

cook till white is firm. Cooked in this manner, the white is 
tender and light and can be eaten by invalids. 

BAKED EGGS 

Plain baked eggs make a pretty breakfast dish. Take a 
deep earthen plate, butter it and break in the eggs, adding 
salt, pepper, bits of butter and bake in a moderate oven until 
the white is set. Garnish with curled parsley and serve with 
buttered toast. Use a small dish to prepare one egg. 

Note : Before cooking f/ 2 tablespoon of cream to each 
egg may be poured over them and in serving a little grated 
cheese may be sifted over the top. 

DIABETIC BAKED EGGS 

Break an egg into a baking-cup, pour gently over it a large 
tablespoonful of melted butter sauce ; then add a thick layer 
of grated cheese ; sprinkle with gluten cracker crumbs and 
dot with bits of butter. Bake until the egg is set and serve 
at once. 

GOLDEN-ROD EGGS 

1 hard-cooked egg=74 Calories. 2 slices toast=146 Calories. 
Sauce=:166 Calories. 

2 teaspoons butter. Speck white pepper. 

y 2 tablespoon flour. Salt. 

Vz cup scalded milk. 

Prepare the sauce. Add the white of egg chopped fine, 
pour over the toast and rub the yolk through a strainer over 
the top. Serve at once. 

Sauce: Melt butter, add flour and gradually the scalded 
milk ; cook well and season with salt and pepper. 

EGG NESTS, 1 55 CALORIES 

1 e gg- 1 round of toast with toast 

34 teaspoon butter. points. 

Salt to taste. 

Toast bread. Separate egg. Beat white to a stiff froth. 
Salt to taste. Spread toast with butter and put white of egg 



i62 ANIMAL FOODS 

on in shape of nest. Make a depression in center, put in the 
butter and drop the yolk in the hollow. Cook in a moderate 
oven three or four minutes. 

Note : May be cooked in tumbler placed in pan of water, 
allowing the water to heat gradually and as the white rises, 
make a depression and drop in yolk. 

It may be served with Tomato Sauce. 

FOAMY OMELET, 1 54 CALORIES 

1 egg. y 2 saltspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon milk. Speck pepper. 

2 teaspoons butter. 

Separate &gg and beat white to a stiff froth. Beat yolk 
till light, add milk, salt and pepper; fold the yolk lightly 
into the white. Put butter into saute pan, when it bubbles 
pour in the mixture. Shake pan gently so omelet will not 
adhere to it; lift up at sides with a knife to see when done 
and when a delicate brown set pan in oven a minute to 
absorb moisture on top. Fold omelet half over, turn out on 
a hot dish and serve immediately. 

Variations. Mix one tablespoon ham or other meat 
chopped fine with foamy omelet and cook as directed. Or 
when omelet is cooked, the chopped meat may be spread over 
before folding. A little chopped parsley may be added. Oys- 
ters either whole or chopped, creamed chicken, stewed or 
sliced tomatoes, asparagus tips, peas or jelly may be used. 

OMELET SOUFFLE, 1 85 CALORIES 

y 2 tablespoon butter. Speck pepper. 

Vz tablespoon flour. % cup milk. 

% teaspoon salt. 1 egg. 

Melt butter and add flour, mix smooth. Pour on the milk 
and stir over heat till of the consistency of thick cream. 
Cool and add beaten yolk. Fold in stiff whites very lightly. 
Put in individual frying-pan made very hot with one-half 
teaspoon butter. Stand on top of stove till very light brown 
on bottom. Finish in hot oven till firm to touch of finger. 
Fold and turn out on hot plate. 



EGGS 163 



BAKED MEAT OMELET 



Prepare Foamy Omelet and add to it the chopped meat. 
Put it into a buttered pudding-dish, set it in a pan of hot 
water and bake until firm. 



POACHED OR DROPPED EGGS 

Toast a square or round piece of bread and four toast 
points ; put on hot plate with points at each side and garnish 
with a sprig of parsley. Have a shallow pan two-thirds full 
of boiling salted water, allowing one teaspoon salt to one pint 
water. Put a slightly buttered muffin ring on a buttered 
skimmer in the water. Break an egg into the ring. The 
water should cover the egg. When there is a film on top and 
the white is firm, carefully take up skimmer, remove ring, 
loosen egg with a knife and place on the toast ; salt slightly. 
The toast may be buttered if desired. 

EGG POACHED IN MILK, 468 CALORIES 

1 egg. Salt. 

\y 2 teaspoons butter. 2 tablespoons grated cheese. 

l / 2 cup thin cream. 

Melt butter in top of double boiler, add cream and when 
hot drop in the egg carefully. Cook until white is nearly 
firm, add salt and sprinkle with cheese. Serve on toast. 
Cheese may be omitted. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS, I92 CALORIES 

1 egg. % teaspoon salt. 

l / 2 cup milk. Speck pepper. 

1 teaspoon butter. 

Beat egg in top of double boiler until light, add milk and 
rest of ingredients and stir over boiling water until it thick- 
ens ; allow it to stand a few minutes, without stirring, to set. 
Serve on toast or hot rice. 



164 ANIMAL FOODS 

EGG SANDWICHES, IO7 CALORIES 

1 hard-cooked egg. % teaspoon mustard. 

54 teaspoon salt. 3 drops vinegar. 

Speck paprika. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Mince the egg very fine with a silver fork, add seasonings 
and butter and mix thoroughly. Butter very thin slices of 
bread, spread with egg mixture, cover it with watercress 
leaves, bits of nasturtium leaves or lettuce. Cover with 
another slice of bread and cut in triangles or rounds. Serve 
on small plate and doily. 

Note : Minced ham may be added to egg mixture. 

SHIRRED EGGS NO. I 

Butter an egg shirrer, ramikins, or small earthen cups ; 
put one egg in each without breaking yolk ; dust with salt and 
white pepper, put in pan of hot water and cook on back of 
range or in a moderate oven until white is set. If baked, 
cover with a buttered paper to keep from browning. 

SHIRRED EGGS NO. II 

Butter small, deep earthen dishes and line with fine white 
bread crumbs moistened to a paste and seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Break an egg in each, sprinkle with a few grains 
of salt, cover with more paste and bake in a pan of hot water 
placed in the oven. When egg is set, serve with two table- 
spoons of tomatoes or cream sauce poured over and garnish 
with a sprig of parsley. 

FILLED EGGS, IO/ CALORIES 

1 hard-cooked egg. % teaspoon mustard. 

1 teaspoon butter or Paprika. 

1 teaspoon olive oil. Salt. 

Remove the shell and cut the egg in halves lengthwise. 
Take out the yolk carefully without breaking the white. Rub 
the yolk to a smooth paste adding the butter or oil and the 
seasonings and mix thoroughly. A small quantity of finely 
chopped ham, tongue or chicken may be added. Fill the 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 165 

whites with the mixture and serve on lettuce, or in a bed of 
parsley. 

EGG DESSERTS 

See "Nutritious Desserts" for recipe. Page 254. 

ALBUMINOUS BEVERAGES 

See "Albuminous Beverages" for recipe. Page 305. 

Milk and Milk Products 1 

"Milk is the only article of diet whose sole function in 
nature is to serve as food." It contains all the compounds 
necessary to support life, in remarkably good proportions 
and in very assimilable forms. It is a complete food for in- 
fants, and is specially suited to the needs of certain classes 
of invalids. For the normal, healthy adult it is undesirable 
as the sole article of diet, because the proportion of water 
is so high that too large quantities must be taken to supply 
the necessary energy, iron and antiscorbutic vitamines, be- 
cause the proportion of protein is unnecessarily high and be- 
cause it furnishes no indigestible residues to supply bulk for 
the perfect functioning of the intestines. 

Composition. — Milk contains all the essentials of an ade- 
quate diet. The proportions of the different nutrients vary 
somewhat with different species and also with individuals of 
the same species. Cow's milk, which is most extensively used, 
is the only kind which will be considered here. Milk has a 
specific gravity of 1.027 to 1.035. 

The chief bulk is water, which averages 87 per cent. The 
solid matter is made up of proteins, fats, carbohydrates and 
mineral matter. The average percentages are as follows : 
protein, 3.3 per cent. ; fat, 4 per cent. ; carbohydrates, 5 per 
cent. ; mineral matter, 0.7 per cent. 

The principal protein is casein, a compound containing 
both phosphorus and sulphur. Casein is precipitated or 

1 For further information, note, "The Use of Milk as Food " Farmer's 
Bulletin No. 363, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



166 ANIMAL FOODS 

coagulated by the addition of acid or, in neutral solutions, 
by rennet. Milk also contains lactalbumin, averaging about 
1/5 of the total protein. The character of the curd depends 
largely on the relative proportions of casein and lactalbumin. 

The fat of milk varies widely in amount. It is found 
throughout the milk in globules, i. e., as an emulsion. On 
standing, the fat rises to the top and forms cream chemically. 
Several fats are present, chiefly stearin, palmatin and olein, 
with smaller amounts of others, such as butyrin, which gives 
the characteristic flavor to butter. 

The chief carbohydrate is lactose or milk sugar. This re- 
mains in the whey when the casein and fat are removed. 

The ash constituents include all of the inorganic elements 
necessary to normal nutrition. 

Digestibility. — While milk is taken as a liquid, it should 
really be regarded as a solid food, for in the stomach it is 
coagulated by the action of the enzyme, rennin, in the gastric 
juice. If the milk is swallowed hastily, a large, tenacious 
curd may form, which will remain long in the stomach and 
the milk will be regarded as difficult of digestion. If the 
milk is sipped slowly — or eaten with a spoon — the curds will 
be small and hence readily acted on by the gastric juice. 
For this reason, the combination of milk with another food 
material, as bread or cereal gruel, may render it more easily 
digestible. Many persons think that they cannot digest milk. 
This is seldom true if the above precautions are taken. 

Nutritive Value. — Milk is a rich source of protein. More- 
over, its proteins are of high biological value because they 
contain all the amino acids essential to good nutrition. Milk 
is the most valuable source of protein from infancy through- 
out the entire period of growth. It is non-stimulating and 
less liable to putrefaction in the alimentary tract than meat 
proteins. Given a quart of milk and an tgg each day, a 
child under eight years of age on a suitable diet of proper 
fuel value will have sufficient protein for all body needs. 

The fat of milk, being in an emulsified form, is more 
readily digested than the fat of meats and other similar foods. 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 167 

The carbohydrates of milk require only transformation to 
simple sugars by the intestinal enzyme, lactase, to be per- 
fectly utilized. Often the energy value of milk is increased 
for infants and invalids by addition of this soluble, mild- 
flavored compound. 

The ash of milk contains the elements necessary to the 
body in particularly assimilable forms. It contains only a 
small amount of iron but the iron present is in an especially 
valuable form. When milk is the chief source of nutriment, 
as with infants and young children, iron must be supplied by 
the addition of other foods such as egg yolk and spinach. 

The value of milk as a food is unappreciated by many 
people. It is frequently regarded as a beverage rather than 
a food, when in fact a quart of milk is equivalent in fuel 
value to approximately nine ounces of white bread, one pound 
of lean beef or nine eggs. It contains as much protein as 
about one-third of a pound of lean beef and in addition about 
as much fat as is supplied by one and one-half ounces of but- 
ter, over one and one-half ounces of milk sugar and valuable 
mineral salts. Compared with other animal foods milk is a 
cheap food, even at present prices, and should enter freely 
into the dietary. It may be flavored with cocoa or coffee or 
it need not be used as a beverage, but may be combined with 
other materials in soups, sauces for vegetables, custards and 
the like, or used in place of water in cooking cereals. 

The value of skimmed milk as a food also needs to be em- 
phasized. It has lost most of the fat in the skimming process 
but has practically the same amount of protein, carbohy- 
drate and ash as whole milk. It is not as rich in flavor 
as whole milk but used in combination with other foods 
it forms a very inexpensive source of valuable nutriment. 

Care of milk. — The importance of keeping milk clean can- 
not be over-emphasized. Aside from all esthetic considera- 
tions, absolute cleanliness is essential as a protection to 
health. Milk is an excellent culture medium for bacteria' and 
these organisms may be not only types producing changes 
in the character of the milk, such as alterations in flavor, 



168 ANIMAL FOODS 

odor, color, decomposition of proteins, formation of gases, 
alcohol, lactic acid, etc., but also disease germs, especially 
those of tuberculosis, scarlet fever, typhoid fever, diphtheria 
and septic sore throat. 

Commercially the care of milk has an important effect on 
the keeping qualities. For all these reasons, milk should come 
from a healthy animal in a sanitary environment. Milking 
must be done under conditions which protect the milk as 
fully as possible from contamination through impurities on 
the cow herself, on the hands or clothing of the milker, in 
the receptacles used for the milk, and in the air in the place 
where the milking is done. Milk should be immediately 
cooled and transported to the consumer in sealed bottles. 
Cooling prevents the growth of bacteria. Such cautions 
necessarily increase the price of milk but even so milk is 
a cheap food and the additional security is worth paying 
for. 

Grades of Milk. — On account of the great variation in the 
quality of milk sold a system of grading has been developed 
to enable the public to choose a milk supply more intel- 
ligently. Unfortunately there is no nation-wide uniformity 
in grading, some of it being voluntary and some compulsory. 
The terms in most common use are Grade A, Grade B, certi- 
fied and pasteurized. 

In New York City the Health Department requires that 
all milk sold in the city shall conform to certain minimum 
standards set forth in their ordinances. 

Grade A, raw or pasteurized, whether full or skimmed, 
"shall be from tuberculin tested cows and contain not more 
than thirty thousand (30,000) bacteria (colonies) per cubic 
centimeter when delivered to the consumer or at any time 
prior to such delivery. Cream of this grade and designation 
shall contain not more than one hundred and fifty thousand 
(150,000) bacteria (colonies) per cubic centimeter." (Sani- 
tary Code, Dept. of Health, New York City, Regulation 24.) 

By "modified milk" is meant milk of any subdivision of 
the classification known as "Grade A ; for Infants and Chil- 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 169 

dren," which has been changed by the addition of water. 
sugar of milk, or other substance intended to render the milk 
suitable for infant feeding. (Ibid. Sec. 155.) 

For Grade B, pasteurized, the minimum bacterial content 
is "one hundred thousand (100,000) bacteria (colonies) 
per c.c, for either full or skimmed milk and five hundred 
thousand (500,000) for cream." (Ibid. Reg. 79.) 

Grade C, pasteurized, not to contain "an excessive num- 
ber of bacteria (colonies)" is used for manufacturing pur- 
poses only. (Ibid. Reg. 96.) 

All grades of milk must be produced under prescribed 
conditions as to health of cows, cleanliness of stables and 
workers, water supply for cows, utensils and containers, etc. 

Certification of Milk. — To insure a milk free from infec- 
tion, the method of certification and pasteurization has been 
widely adopted. 

Certification involves supervision by medical milk commis- 
sioners who require a specific testing of milk against all 
accidental and harmful contamination. To secure this the 
services of chemists, bacteriologists and veterinary surgeons 
are required. The most vital object is the exclusion of tu- 
bercle bacilli from milk, which involves a special inspection 
of dairy herds and rejection of tubercular cows. Other per- 
nicious germs, pus corpuscles, etc., are also sought for. 

Certification of milk requires periodical inspection of 
dairies, of bottled milk bought in open market, etc. All milk- 
must correspond to a number and variety of tests, too numer- 
ous to be mentioned in this connection. Every branch of 
the milk trade is covered. Such milk receives a certificate 
showing the date of milking and is naturally ex- 
pensive, but it should be used whenever possible for infants 
and little children and for all purposes in households which 
buy the best grades of other food materials. 

Pasteurization. — This is the process by which milk is ren- 
dered more or less sterile through destruction of active bac- 
teria by heat. Various standards as to temperature and 
time have been adopted, but in general the milk is heated 



i;o ANI'MAL FOODS 

to a temperature not exceeding 145 F., for a period of 20 to 
30 minutes and then rapidly cooled to 45 ° F. or lower. 
The Department of Health of New York City requires 
that in pasteurization the milk be heated to at least 142 F. 
and held at such temperature for thirty minutes or more. 

Most harmful bacteria and lactic acid bacteria are killed. 
Spores are not killed, however, and if the milk is not kept 
cold or is allowed to stand too long, putrefactive organisms 
develop. These putrefactive changes are very undesirable, 
so that the care of pasteurized milk is just as important as 
that of fresh milk. If carelessly handled, the fact that it 
does not sour readily is a menace to health rather than a 
benefit. 

Commercial pasteurization is a cheap and effective means 
of preventing the spread of ordinary infectious diseases. The 
degree of heat specified does not materially change the flavor 
or the chemical composition of the milk. It does destroy the 
antiscorbutic property. (See "Antiscorbutic Property of 
Foods," chapter 1, page 22.) When clean, fresh milk cannot 
be absolutely insured, it is safer to pasteurize. But this proc- 
ess cannot make bad milk good or dirty milk clean. If 
bacteria have already produced poisonous products it will not 
destroy them. 

Sterilization. — Sterilization is accomplished by keeping 
milk at boiling temperature (212 degrees F.) for 10 or more 
minutes, preferably in the vessel in which it is to remain. 
This will kill all living bacteria, but will not destroy spores. 
Hence to render milk absolutely sterile, repetition of the 
process on successive days is necessary. This is rarely done, 
as the spores are not likely to develop if the milk is kept at a 
temperature of 40 degrees F. or less. 

Sterilized milk is not an ideal food. Boiling changes the 
taste and the cream does not rise as quickly; the chemical 
nature of the milk is also altered. It is less easily coagulated 
by rennet, since the calcium salts are changed. The antiscor- 
butic property is destroyed. Sterilization should be regarded 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 171 

as an emergency measure for hot weather when cooling 
facilities are lacking. 

Milk Products 

Butter. — Butter consists almost entirely of separated milk 
fat. Churning causes the fat globules to unite into a solid 
mass. The cream is first allowed to ripen for some hours. 
This process gives the characteristic taste and odor, which is 
due to action of bacteria. When kept, butter tends to turn 
rancid, owing to the fermentation of a small quantity of 
the butyrin present. Salt is added largely to prevent this 
change. Butter is very palatable and one of the most di- 
gestible forms of fat. 

Cheese. — Cheese is made from full milk, skimmed milk or 
cream. It consists of the casein of the milk and more or 
less of the fat and mineral matters. The flavor is due to the 
action of enzymes in molds or bacteria. Cheese is a very 
concentrated, nutritious food and very thoroughly assim- 
ilated. It is not usually well borne by invalids and con- 
valescents, however. 

Cream. — Cream is the fatty layer which forms at the top 
of milk which is allowed to stand undisturbed. It contains 
the fat of the milk, water, some protein, carbohydrates and 
mineral matter. The percentage of fat is exceedingly vari- 
able, ranging from about 16 per cent, to 40 per cent. The 
cream which rises on milk after 24 hours is called gravity 
cream and the top five ounces contain about 16 per cent. fat. 
The richer creams are obtained by centrifugalizing the milk. 
Cream in large quantities is less easily digested than an 
equal amount of whole milk because of the large amount of 
fat, but this form of fat is easily digested compared with 
other food fats and hence is often ordered by physicians. 

Curds. — When milk sours, owing to the formation of 
lactic acid by the action of lactic acid bacteria upon the 
sugar, or when the enzyme, rennet, is added to fresh milk at 



172 ANIMAL FOODS 

body temperature and the clot is stirred, the curds separate 
from the whey. 

Curds consist of coagulated casein, which commonly car- 
ries with it the fat, and gentle heat facilitates this separation, 
but a high temperature renders the curd tough and indigesti- 
ble. With or without the addition of cream, curds are used 
as cottage cheese, which is a very cheap, nutritious food. 

Junket. — If sweet milk is allowed to stand undisturbed 
after the addition of rennet, the thickened, custard-like mass 
is called junket. This is a valuable method of using milk, 
especially for invalids, children and those who from personal 
idiosyncrasy cannot drink milk. 

Whey. — This substance may be either sweet when formed 
by junket or sour when otherwise produced. It contains 
most of the lactose, lactalbumin and ash constituents of the 
milk, but has less nutritive value, owing to the removal of 
the milk fat and casein, and may be regarded as a bever- 
age. See page 166. 

Sour Milk. — When whole milk sours, with the formation 
of "curds and whey," the entire product is known as clabber 
or bonny-clabber. It is wholesome and nutritious, since it 
contains all the ingredients naturally present in milk. By 
some it is used as a beverage. When not so relished, it can be 
used to good advantage in cooking, adding its nutritive value 
to any dish in which it is incorporated. 

Buttermilk. — True buttermilk, which is common on farms, 
is seldom found in commerce. Unless produced where sold, 
its genuineness may be a matter of question. Those who are 
familiar with the genuine article state that the delicacy of 
its flavor, its consistency, etc., are much superior to the so- 
called buttermilk of commerce. The composition of the two 
articles is practically the same. When milk from which the 
cream has been removed by the separator is allowed to sour, 
it is said to resemble ordinary buttermilk, and the fluid which 
goes by the latter name, sold extensively throughout Greater 
New York, is said to be skimmed milk especially soured. 

Metschnickoff Artificially Soured Milk. — The announce- 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 173 

ment some years ago by Metschnickoff that the foregoing 
products were of very great hygienic and therapeutic value in 
disinfecting the intestines has resulted in the wholesale pro- 
duction of a substance which differs from ordinary sour 
milk in that it is prepared from a pure culture of lactic- 
acid germs. This product is doubtless destined to replace 
the older ones on account of its freedom from undesirable 
forms of bacteria. The technique for preparing it, devised 
originally by Metschnickoff himself, also places it in a higher 
class than the older preparations. Pure cultures are sold in 
the natural liquid form or are desiccated and sold as tablets. 

Fermented Milk. — Milk which has been fermented is really 
a derivative of native milk, and in parts of Europe and Asia 
constitutes an important article of diet. The fermentation 
is either the lactic alone or the lactic and alcoholic together. 

The ferments used consist chiefly of various "leavens" 
or cultures which cause lactic acid fermentation. People who 
have subsisted on this milk for centuries simply use a por- 
tion of old fermented milk to leaven fresh milk. These 
leavens vary considerably in composition and the milk used 
may be from one of several domestic animals. Some leavens 
contain yeast germs, so that alcohol may or mav not be 
present. The native preparations which have been imitated 
in this country are kumyss, kefir and matzoon. 

Kumyss was prepared originally from mares' milk. The 
leaven contains lactic acid germs and yeast. The product 
therefore contains lactic acid, alcohol and carbonic acid 
gas, representing an acid, effervescing and mildly alcoholic 
beverage. The casein curd is finely broken up and partially 
digested. Kumyss has been imitated in America by adding 
yeast to milk and allowing fermentation to proceed twentv- 
four hours or over. 

Kefir was made originally from cows' milk with a leaven. 
This has been sold in tablet form like the rennet ferment. 

Matzoon differs from the preceding chiefly in containing 
no alcohol. 

Modified Milk is milk containing definite proportions of 



174 ANIMAL FOODS 

fat, sugar, protein, etc., put up usually according to the 
formula of a physician, who prescribes the quantity of the 
different constituents he desires. 

For sick children and in convalescence it is of great value 
to obtain a modification in which the composition is definite 
and accurate. It can then be known what mixtures will agree 
with the patient. 

Malted Milk is a pure food prepared from rich full 
milk, combined with the valuable nutritive extracts of malted 
barley and wheat. This product being highly concentrated 
and partially predigested, supplies a large amount of nutrition 
with little tax upon the digestive organs. It is a valuable 
nutrient in dyspepsia or impaired digestion, for fever and 
wasting diseases, the convalescent, the nursing mother, and 
the aged. 

Peptonized Milk is milk in which the casein or curd has 
been made partially soluble and diffusible by means of the 
peptonizing tubes. In these peptonizing tubes, extractum 
pancreatis, containing the pancreatic ferment which acts 
especially upon the proteins of milk, is combined with bi- 
carbonate of soda in due proportion and each tube contains 
sufficient peptonizing powder to peptonize a pint of milk. 
Milk may be peptonized by various methods — by the "cold 
process," "immediate process;" "warm process," etc. The 
method and degree of peptonization suitable for any special 
case is soon determined by experience, by the agreeability 
of the milk and its digestibility. 

Condensed Milk. — Preservation of milk by condensation 
constitutes a very extensive commercial industry. There are 
several processes in vogue and the product is either sweet- 
ened or unsweetened. Ordinary unsweetened condensed milk 
contains about 12 per cent, each of protein and fat and 16 per 
cent, of the native milk sugar, making the total solids 40 per 
cent. Cane sugar may be added to the amount of about 40 
per cent, more, making the total solids 80 per cent. 

Evaporated Milk is made of pure milk, fresh from the 
cow, nothing taken from it to lessen its nourishing qualities 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 175 

and nothing added. It is sterilized by the application of a 
higher degree of heat than is used in ordinary pasteurization. 

Energy Value of Milk 

1 cup of whole milk =169 Calories 

1 cup skimmed milk = 89 Calories 

1 cup cream (18%) =440 Calories 

1 cup cream (40% ) =864 Calories 

PASTEURIZATION 

Methods of Preparing. — Put bottle into kettle of cold 
water and bring slowly to the boiling point. Boil ten minutes, 
after which fill immediately nearly full with milk ; cork with 
absorbent cotton which has been baked in the oven until a 
delicate brown. Place bottles on a rest in a deep pan so that 
they will not touch bottom and fill the pan with cold water to 
reach as high as the milk in bottles. Heat water gradually to 
145 degrees Fahrenheit, or until small bubbles appear in 
the milk next to the glass. Remove to back of stove and keep 
milk at same temperature 20 to 30 minutes; then cool 
quickly to 45 degrees or lower. To cool rapidly put bottles 
first into lukewarm water and then cold water until milk is 
cold, then surround with ice water. Keep in cold place and 
do not remove stoppers until ready to use. Xote : Pasteuriz- 
ation, page 169. 

Utensils. — A convenient form of apparatus for pasteuriza- 
tion can be purchased or a covered tin pail answers well for 
the larger vessel, and an inverted pie pan with perforated 
bottom may serve as the false bottom. A hole may be punched 
in the cover of the pail, a cork inserted and a chemical 
thermometer put through the cork so that the bulb dips in 
the water, thus enabling one to watch the temperature closely 
without removing the cover, or an ordinary dairy ther- 
mometer may be used from time to time by removing 
the lid. 

STERILIZATION 

The utensils and methods for sterilizing milk are the same 



176 ANIMAL FOODS 

as for pasteurizing, except that the water is heated to the 
boiling point (212 F.) and the time for boiling is ten or 
more minutes. Note: Sterilization, page 170. 

EVAPORATED MILK 

It is sometimes of advantage, as in cases of dilated stom- 
ach or whenever the total amount of fluids must be cut down 
to a given point, to heat the milk in a pan over which is 
placed an inverted funnel. Much of the water of the milk 
passes off as vapor, while the solids remain in the pan. 

BAKED MILK 

Into a stone jar put one-half gallon of sweet milk; cover 
with writing paper and tie it on. Bake in moderate oven 
nine to ten hours. It will be the consistency of thick cream. 

MALTED MILK, 122 CALORIES 

Mix two tablespoons of Horlick's Malted Milk powder 
with a little tepid water to make a smooth paste ; add three- 
fourths cup water, hot or cold, stirring briskly and serve. 

Note: May be prepared with hot milk instead of water 
and a little cream added if desired. 

PARTIALLY PEPTONIZED MILK, 1 338 CALORIES 

1 pint milk. 4 oz. water. 

Peptonizing powder , Pancreatin gr. v. 

, °\ . . , , ( Sodium bicarbonate gr. x. 

1 peptonizing tube. v 

Mix water and powder. Put in clean jar or bottle with a 
cover. Add the milk. Shake well. Set in water bath of 
1 1 5 F. for 20 minutes. Bring immediately to the boiling 
point. Remove and put on ice. 

FULLY PEPTONIZED MILK 1 

When fully peptonized milk is desired, the milk prepared 

1 "St. Luke's Dietary," St. Luke's Hospital, New York City. 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 177 

as above should remain in the water bath for one hour. 
This is used for rectal feeding. 

JUNKET (FOR INFANTS), 338 CALORIES 

1 pint fresh cow's milk. 2 teaspoons essence of pepsin, 
Pinch salt. or liquid rennet, or one half 

2 teaspoons granulated sugar. junket tablet. 

Heat the milk to blood heat (ioo° F.), add salt, sugar and 
the essence of pepsin or liquid rennet. (If the junket tablet 
is used dissolve in a tablespoon of cold water.) Stir mix- 
ture for a moment and then allow it to stand at the tem- 
perature of the room for twenty minutes, or until firmly 
coagulated ; place in the ice box until thoroughly cold. For 
older children this may be flavored with nutmeg. 

Note : If it is desired to have as little fat as possible, 
skimmed milk should be used and whey should be strained 
through fine, white muslin without pressure. For the adult, 
junket may be served as directed on page 262. 

WHEY 1 (FOR INFANTS) 

The coagulated milk may be prepared as for junket. It is 
then broken up with a fork and the whey strained off 
through muslin. If some stimulant is desired, a little sherry 
wine may be added. Whey is useful in many cases of acute 
indigestion with vomiting, but not generally in diarrhoea. 

For the adult, note : Whey Preparations, page 300. 

CURD 1 (FOR CHILDREN) 

After all the whey has been drained off or removed by 
squeezing, the dry curd, with the addition of a little salt, is 
palatable and often useful in cases of diarrhoea. One round 
tablespoonful may be given to older children three or four 
times a day either plain or spread on thin toast. It should 
not be used for this condition unless freshly made. No 
sugar should be added before coagulation. 

*L. Emmett Holt, M.D., "The Care and Feeding of Children," D. Appleton 
& Co., New York City. 



178 ANIMAL FOODS 

MARTIN'S MILK, 1 676 CALORIES 

y 2 gm., 7Y 2 grains, rennin or 1 pint (500 c.c.) milk. 
1 dram (4 c.c.) liquid rennet. 

Heat milk to 98 F. Add rennin dissolved in cold water. 
Allow to coagulate. Beat thoroughly with dover egg beater. 
Season with salt and chill. 

PROTEIN MILK (EIWEISS-MILCH) , 2 676 CALORIES 
(Finkelstein) 

1 junket tablet or 1 pint boiled water (cooled) 

2 teaspoons rennet. 1 pint fat-free buttermilk. 
1 quart milk. 

Add the junket tablet dissolved in one tablespoon cold 
water, or the rennet, to the milk. Allow to stand for one- 
half hour at temperature of ioo° F. The whey is then 
removed from the curd thus formed and discarded. The 
boiled water is then added to the curd and by constant and 
easy stirring this mixture is rubbed through a sieve. This 
last process is repeated at least once and the mixture must 
now have the appearance of milk and the curd should be 
finely divided. The fat-free buttermilk is then added and 
thoroughly mixed. 

The approximate percentages of the constituents of Ei- 
weiss milch and the caloric value are as follows : 

Protein Fat Carbohydrates Cal. Val. per. oz. 

3.0 2.5 1.5 12 

Protein milk is useful at times, in conditions of intestinal 
disturbances associated with diarrhoea, for infants, chil- 
dren and adults where milk, either alone or with the usual 
admixtures, is not well borne. 

Note : In making Protein milk some authorities recom- 
mend from one to four teaspoons of rennet. One teaspoon 
rennet gives a very delicate flavor but is found to take a 
great deal of time to coagulate mixture. 

1 Dr. Herbert Carter, "Presbyterian Diet Lists," New York City, W. B. 
Saunders Co., Phila., Pa. 

2 "St. Luke's Dietary," St. Luke's Hospital, New York City. 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 179 

BUTTERMILK 1 (BULGARIAN) 

1 cup (whole milk buttermilk) =88 Calories 

1 quart fresh whole milk, or lj^ to 2 ounces (Bulgarian) 
skimmed or entirely fat- starter, or 1 buttermilk tab- 

free, or pasteurized milk. let, or 1 tube (1 c.c.) of 

lactobacillin. 

Dissolve the tablet or lactobacillin in one gill of cold water 
or if the buttermilk starter is used stir it into the cold milk 
and place in a one-half gallon glass jar, place the cover on 
loosely and allow to stand in warm room (8o° to 90 F.) 
12 to 24 hours until it is well clabbered. When this is ac- 
complished place the jar in the ice box. When thoroughly 
cold put rubber and cover over jar and "churn" by shaking 
it vigorously for a minute or two. Or the milk may be pre- 
pared in a bowl or pitcher and beaten with an egg beater 
until smooth and creamy. Save about 4 ounces to use as 
culture for next supply. If buttermilk is made daily, a new 
culture need not be bought oftener than once a month. 

Note : If the acid flavor is too mild, let stand cold another 
day. If desired the buttermilk may be diluted with one- 
fourth water. A pinch of salt may be added. This butter- 
milk may be kept on ice or in refrigerator for a week or 
longer. Where fat is not well borne the cream should be 
removed from milk before using. For large quantity, use 
one-half bottle of lactobacillin to can of milk. 

LACTONE BUTTERMILK 

1 cup (whole milk buttermilk) =88 Calories 
1 quart fresh whole milk. 1 lactone tablet. 

Prepare as for Buttermilk but allow mixture to stand at 
temperature of /0°-75° F. for 24 to 36 hours, shaking the 
bottle occasionally to keep the cream from rising. When 
sufficiently fermented pour the milk into a bowl and beat 
briskly for 5 to 6 minutes with egg-beater or with churn, 
and place on ice until ready to serve. 

1 Modified from "Infant Care," U. S. Dept. of Labor, Children's Bureau, 
Washington, D. C. 



i8o ANIMAL FOODS 



KUMYSS 

Vq cake Fleischmann's yeast. 1 tablespoon water. 

1 J A tablespoons sugar. 1 quart milk. 

Make a thin syrup of the sugar and water and cook one 
minute. Soften the yeast in two tablespoons of lukewarm 
milk. Heat the milk until lukewarm, add other ingredients 
and shake. Put in sterile patent beer bottles, place in up- 
right position for twelve hours, at 70 degrees Fahrenheit 
(or comfortably warm room) ; then turn on side at heat 
50 degrees Fahrenheit (lower part of ice-box). Ready for 
use after the first twenty-four hours ; often kept several days, 
but the longer it is kept the less palatable it is. Open a bottle 
of kumyss with a champagne tap, or the cork may be punc- 
tured with a stout needle to let the gas escape. It should look 
like thick, foamy cream. 

Kumyss is especially suited for many forms of indigestion, 
nausea, fever and gastric trouble, pulmonary consumption 
and other wasting diseases. 

Dr. Brush's prepared kumyss is recommended on account 
of its superiority over the home-made preparations, as the 
milk supply is controlled and the method of preparing is 
carried out upon scientific basis. It is also more convenient, 
as it is ready for immediate use. 

CASEIN-CALCIUM MILK 1 (STOELTZNER's) 

6 ounces, 4% milk, cold. 10 ounces, 4% milk, hot. 

20 grains casein-calcium. 

Dissolve the casein-calcium in the cold milk and pour into 
the hot milk. Boil the mixture five minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. This makes a smooth, homogeneous mixture of thin 
creamy consistency ; to this add one pint of boiled water or 
cereal decoction. 

The approximate percentage of the constituents and the 
caloric value are as follows : 

Protein Fat Carbohydrates Cal. Val. per. oz. 

3.4% 1.7% 2.2% 12 

1 "St. Luke's Dietary," St. Luke's Hospital, New York City, 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 181 

HYDROCHLORIC MILK, 1 6/6 CALORIES 

Milk 1 quart 

Water 1 pint 

Dilute hydrochloric acid m xxv 

After adding acid to water, mix with milk and heat to 
boiling point. Cool before serving. 



MEDICATED MILK 1 

Cerium oxalate gr. x 

Sodium bicarbonate gr. xx 

Milk o viii 



DELAFIELD S MILK MIXTURE" 
( Feeding in Nausea) 

Milk 120 c.c. ( 4 oz.) 

Cream 120 c.c. ( 4 oz. ) 

Vichy 120 c.c. ( 4 oz.) 

Soda bicarbonate V/z gm. (20 gr.) 

Cerium oxalate 2 /z gm. ( 10 gr.) 

Delafield's mixture is often serviceable in the feeding of 
gastric cases accompanied by much nausea and vomiting, 
beginning with dram doses every twenty minutes and grad- 
ually increasing the dose and later lengthening the intervals. 

DIABETIC MILK 2 (WRIGHT's) 

Definite quantity of milk diluted with three to four voi- 
umes distilled water, to which i : or 2 :iooo glacial acetic acid 
has been added (6-12 c.c, dr. 1^-3, glacial acetic acid; 
I pint or 500 c.c. water). This precipitates all casein and fat. 

Allow to settle, then strain through muslin. Wash re- 
peatedly. Redissolve curd in a 1 per cent, solution of the 
following mixture, enough to make the original amount of 
milk: 

'"St. Luke's Dietary," St. Luke's Hospital, New York City. 
a Dr. Herbert Carter, "Presbyterian Diet Lists," New York City, W. B. 
Saunders Co., Phila., Pa. 



182 ANIMAL FOODS 

Sodium chloride 11.5 

Potassium chloride 9.9 

Monopotassium phosphate 13.8 

Dipotassium phosphate 10.0 

Citrate of potassium 5.9 

Dimagnesium phosphate 4.0 

Magnesium citrate 4.4 

Dicalcium phosphate 8.0 

Tricalcium phosphate 9.6 

Calcium citrate 25.5 

Calcium oxide 5.5 

Sodium carbonate 40.0 

Analysis of Wright's Diabetic Milk 1 

Specific gravity, 1011. 

Ash 0.200 per cent. 

Fat 3.600 per cent. 

Protein 1.907 per cent. 

Carbohydrate 0.015 per cent. 

Total solids 5.722 per cent. 

NaCl 0.110 per cent. 

THICKENED MILK 

See Flour Gruel. Page 200. 

RICE MILK, 454 CALORIES 

1 ounce rice. % teaspoon salt. 

1 pint scalded milk. 1 teaspoon sugar. 

Soak rice twelve hours, strain and add the scalded milk, 
salt and sugar. Stir well and cook slowly one hour. Rub 
through a fine sieve (thin with more hot milk if desired). 
Taste and add more seasoning if necessary. Sago or tapioca 
may be used in the same way. 

RUM AND MILK, 1 82 CALORIES 

34 cup milk. \ l / 2 teaspoon sugar. 

y$ tablespoon rum or brandy. 

Use fresh or pasteurized milk. Put ingredients into a 
lemonade shaker or fruit jar, using rubber band and cover ; 
cover well and shake until frothy. Serve in glass three- 
fourths filled. 



SOUP 183 

SHERRY OR BRANDY AND MILK, IJ2 CALORIES 1 

34 cup fresh milk. 54 teaspoon sugar. 

24 tablespoon brandy or Nutmeg. 

Yz wineglass of sherry. 

Blend as for Rum and Milk. Fill glass three-fourths 
full and add a grating of nutmeg on top. 

CINNAMON AND MILK, I32 CALORIES 2 

24 cup new milk. Sugar. 

Stick cinnamon. l /$ teaspoon brandy. 

Boil milk, with sufficient cinnamon to flavor pleasantly, 
and sweeten. This may be taken cold with the brandy. 
Very good in cases of diarrhoea. Children may take it warm 
without brandy. 

Soup and Soup Accompaniments 

Soup is a light and suitable form of food for the sick. 
There are two classes — those made with meat and those 
without meat. 

The soups with meat are an infusion of meat, flavored 
with salt and some condiment. They are treated in the 
chapter on broths. 

The foundations of soups without meat are milk, vege- 
tables and water. They are dainty and nutritious and an 
excellent way of serving milk and the starch and mineral 
matter of the vegetable. 

They may be served as a luncheon, with crisp crackers, or 
as the first course of a dinner. Serve daintily in heated 
bouillon cups, partly filled, on small plate and doily. 

General Rules for Blending Cream Soup: 

Foundation of Cream Soups is a sauce and a stock. The 
stock gives the flavor and names to the soups, as Cream of 
Chicken, Cream of Pea, etc. 

(a) Preparation of Vegetable Stock. The vegetables are 

1 Calculated with brandy. 

2 Without sugar. 



184 ANIMAL FOODS 

cooked until very soft, usually rubbed through a strainer and 
except potatoes and such as have a strong odor, are used with 
a part or all of the water in which they are cooked. This 
water is called vegetable stock. 

(b) Preparation of White Sauce. There are two methods 
of blending White Sauce. I. Melt butter, add the flour and 
gradually the scalded milk or water, cooking thoroughly. 
2. Scald the milk, wet the flour with a little cold milk to 
make a smooth paste and add gradually to the hot milk. 
Cook well. The amount of flour (thickening) used in mak- 
ing the white sauce varies with the density of the pulp. The 
flour and fat are called the "binding material." 

(c) Blend (a) and (b). Season, strain and serve im- 
mediately. 

One-fourth, one-third, one-half or even equal parts as 
much vegetable stock and pulp as white sauce may be used. 

For the Diabetic. — Cream soups for the diabetic are made 
by using 25 to 30 grams of vegetables cooked and pressed 
through a sieve, with stock and cream added and thickened 
with the yolk of one egg. This is the method of making 
all diabetic cream soups. Clear soups are made by omitting 
the egg and cream. Salt, pepper, a little onion, chopped 
parsley or chicken or beef stock may be used for seasoning 
these soups. 

Cream Sauce 1 for soups may be prepared as follows: 
Blend one cup of cream, three-fourths cup water and two 
egg yolks in top of double boiler and cook until of a creamy 
consistency, stirring constantly. When the mixture coats a 
silver spoon remove from fire. Calories, 560. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP, 309 CALORIES 

(Two Servings) 

14 bunch asparagus. Y\ tablespoon flour. 

1 cup milk. Salt. 

y 2 tablespoon butter. Pepper. 

(a) Wash the asparagus and cook in boiling salted water, 

a "St. Luke's Dietary," St. Luke's Hospital, New York City. 



SOUP 185 

boiling gently thirty minutes. Take from the water, cut off 
the tips and put them into the serving dish ; press the re- 
mainder through a colander. 

(b) Scald the milk. Melt the butter, add the flour and 
gradually pour on the scalding milk. Cook thoroughly, stir- 
ring often. 

Blend (a) and (b) ; reheat, season to taste, strain over 
tips and serve at once with crisped wafer crackers. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP, 48 1 CALORIES 

(Two Servings) 

^2 cup corn. 1 cup milk. 

y 2 cup cold water. 1 tablespoon flour. 

14 slice onion. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Salt and pepper. Yolk 1 egg. 

(a) Chop corn, add water and simmer twenty minutes; 
rub through a sieve. 

(b) Scald milk with onion; remove onion. Melt butter, 
add flour and gradually pour on milk. 

Blend (a) and (b) ; cook thoroughly, season to taste with 
salt and pepper and pour over the beaten yolk. When well 
blended, serve hot. 

Note : The yolk of egg may be omitted. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP, 308 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

4 stalks celery. 1 tablespoon butter. 

V2 cup boiling water. 1 tablespoon flour. 

Salt and pepper. 1 cup milk. 

(a) Wash and scrape the celery and cut into small pieces, 
add the water and cook until very tender and soft. Renew 
the water if it boils away. Mash the celery in the water in 
which it was cooked. 

(b) Scald milk. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add flour 
and gradually pour on the scalded milk. Cook thoroughly, 
stirring carefully. 

Blend (a) and (b) ; season to taste; strain and serve im- 
mediately with croutons or crisped crackers. 



1 86 ANIMAL FOODS 

CREAM OF PEA SOUP, 2o8 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Y2 cup peas. Y cup milk. 

y 2 teaspoon sugar. Y tablespoon butter. 

Yi cup cold water. V 2 tablespoon flour. 
Salt and pepper. 

(a) Drain peas from their liquor, rinse thoroughly, add 
sugar and cold water and simmer twenty minutes. Rub 
through a sieve ; reheat. 

(b) Scald milk. Melt butter, add flour and gradually 
pour on the scalded milk. Cook thoroughly, stirring care- 
fully. 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP, 24 1 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Y± cup milk. V2 tablespoon flour. 

Yi slice onion. Y\ teaspoon salt. 

Y\ cup mashed potatoes. Pepper. 
Y2 tablespoon butter. 

(a) Scald milk with onion in it, remove onion and add 
milk slowly to potatoes, (b) Melt butter, add flour and grad- 
ually pour on the hot mixture. Cook thoroughly and season 
to taste. A little celery salt may be added if desired. A little 
finely-chopped parsley may be sprinkled over top of soup. 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP, 294 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon rice. Stalk celery. 

1 cup milk. Y bay leaf. 

y± tablespoon butter. Salt. 

Ys small onion. Pepper. 

Scald the milk, add the well-washed rice and cook in 
double boiler thirty minutes, covered closely. 

Melt butter in saute pan, add the sliced onion and cook till 
tender, but not brown. Add celery sliced, and turn into 
scalded milk ; add the bay leaf, cover and let stand on back 
of stove fifteen minutes. Strain, season with salt and pep- 
per, reheat and serve. 

Note: If soup is too thick, add a little heated milk. 



SO UP 187 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP, 316 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yz cup tomatoes. 1 tablespoon butter. 

%6 teaspoon soda. 24 tablespoon flour or corn- 
Salt and pepper. starch. 
1 cup milk. 

(a) Steam tomatoes until soft enough to strain juice; 
strain, add soda and allow gases to pass off. This prevents 
the acid of the tomato from curdling the milk. 

(b) Scald milk; melt butter in quart size saucepan, add 
the flour and gradually pour on the scalded milk. Cook 
thoroughly, stirring carefully. 

Blend (a) and (b) ; reheat, season to taste, strain and 
serve immediately with croutons or crackers. 

DRIED FRUIT SOUP, I9I CALORIES 1 

Y\ cup dried apricots. 1 cup cold water. 

Y\ cup prunes. Sugar to taste. 

Pick over and wash fruit until perfectly clean. Cook in 
the water until very soft. Strain and squeeze out all the 
juice ; sweeten to taste. Thicken if liked. 

Thickening. — 1 slightly rounding teaspoon rice flour to 
1 cup liquid. Cook twenty minutes to remove raw taste of 
starch. 

TOMATO SOUP (WITH BROTH ), IO4 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Y2 cup strained tomatoes. 1 cup water or stock. 

Y2. tablespoon butter. Y\ teaspoon salt. 

Yz slice onion. Speck pepper. 
1 tablespoon flour. 

(a) Cook and strain tomatoes, obtaining one-half cup 
juice. 

(&) Melt butter, add the onion and brown slightly; add 
the flour ; gradually pour on the boiling water or stock. 

Blend (a) and (b) ; cook thoroughly, season with salt and 
pepper, strain and serve. 

1 Without sugar. 



188 ANIMAL FOODS 

Note : Two tablespoons of cream may be added. 
Beef or mutton broth strained may be used in place of 
water if desired. 

VICTORIA SOUP (WITH BROTH ), 581 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

Yz cup lean chicken meat. 1 cup milk. 

1 cup strong chicken broth. 54 cup cracker crumbs. 

V2 teaspoon salt. Yolks 2 eggs. 

Pepper. 

Soak the crumbs in a little of the milk. Cook yolks of 
eggs in hot water until hard. Chop the chicken, mix with 
the soaked cracker crumbs, press the hard-cooked yolks 
through a coarse strainer, add the seasonings and the broth 
and cook all together five minutes over direct heat or one- 
half hour in double boiler. Serve hot. 

VEGETABLE SOUP (FOR INFANTS) 

I cup of carrots, I cup turnips, handful of spinach (other 
vegetables may be substituted), I teaspoonful of salt, water 
to cover. Water drained from rice makes a more nourishing 
soup than plain water. Add I soup bone or one-half cup 
scraped or chopped beef if desired. Chop vegetables until 
fine or put through a meat grinder. Cover with water, using 
as little as possible, and boil slowly until very soft. For 
young infants, strain, pressing the vegetables with the back 
of a large spoon. The liquid will be cloudy. For older 
infants press the vegetables through a sieve, adding one or 
more teaspoonfuls of pulp to small cup of liquid. 

When thus prepared this soup may be kept from three to 
four days except in hot weather, if the entire quantity is 
heated to the boiling point every day before using. 

Well cooked rice, barley or bread crumbs may be added 
for infants. Egg may be given in soup, if desired, by stir- 
ring 1 well-beaten egg into I cup of hot soup until the egg 
becomes finely curded. 



SO UP 189 

MALT-SOUP MIXTURE 1 NO. I 

10 oz. 4% milk. 1 oz. (by weight) malt-soup 

20 oz. water. extract. 

1 oz. (by weight) wheat flour 
(V/ 2 tablespoonfuls). 

MALT-SOUP MIXTURE 1 NO. 2 

15 oz. 4% milk. l l / 2 oz. (by weight) malt-soup 

20 oz. water. extract. 

1 oz. (by weight) wheat flour 
(3 tablespoonfuls). 

MALT-SOUP MIXTURE 1 NO. 3 

20 oz. 4% milk. \ l / 2 oz. (by weight) malt-soup 

20 oz. water. extract. 

y 2 oz. (by weight) wheat flour 
(3 tablespoonfuls). 

Directions for Preparing Malt-Soup Mixture 1 
The flour should be mixed with 15 oz. of the water and 
allowed to boil for twenty minutes. The malt-soup extract 
should be mixed with 5 oz. of the water and then, together 
with the milk, added to the cooked cereal. Allow the whole 
mixture to simmer in a double boiler and stir thoroughly 
ten minutes. Add enough boiled water to make up the defi- 
ciency from boiling and strain through a sieve. 

The approximate percentages of the constituents and the 
caloric values of the above mixtures are as follows : 

F. C. P. Cal. per oz. 

Mixture No. 1 1.4 5.4 1.4 11 

Mixture No. 2 1.8 7.5 1.9 15 

Mixture No. 3 2.1 7 2 16^ 

DIABETIC CREAM OF CELERY SOUP, 208 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

6 stalks celery. Speck cayenne pepper, salt. 

1 slice onion. V 2 teaspoon butter. 

1 cup water. z / 2 teaspoon gluten flour. 
1 cup hot milk. 

Boil, mash and strain the first three ingredients, add the 

1 "St. Luke's Dietary," St. Luke's Hospital, New York City. 



IQO ANIMAL FOODS 

hot milk or cream. Melt the butter, add the flour and grad- 
ually pour on the hot soup stock ; season and cook thoroughly. 

DIABETIC OXIOX SOUP, 30 CALORIES 

One Bermuda or three green onions boiled until tender in 
stock or water ; mash and strain. Add one-half teaspoon 
Gum Gluten Flour, one-half teaspoonful butter and a little 
chopped parsley. One tablespoon of cream, if desired. 

DIABETIC CREAM OF PEA SOUP, 1 $2 CALORIES 

Yz cup canned peas. 1 dram (4 gm.) butter. 

Salt. 1 dram (4 gm.) flour. 

V/ 2 ounces (45 c.c.) water. 1 dram (4 gm.) lactose. 
6 ounces (180 c.c.) milk. 

Boil first three ingredients, strain, and add milk, melted 

butter, flour and lactose ; season. Bring to the boiling point 

and strain. 30 c.c. (1 oz.) equals protein. 2.6 gm., calories, 

32. 

DIABETIC BLACK BEAX SOUP, 1 40 CALORIES 

Part" one. Part two. 

2 tablespoons black beans. ^3 cup milk. 

1 cup cold water. 2 drams (8 gm.) butter. 

Seasoning — onions, celery salt, 1 dram (4 gm.) flour, 
salt and pepper. Salt and pepper, q. s. 

Boil ingredients of part one until tender, strain and add 
part two. Cook thoroughly and serve hot. 30 c.c. (1 oz.) 
equals protein, 1.98 gm., calories, 40. 

DIABETIC CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP, 21 J CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

J A cup tomatoes. 14 teaspoon butter. 

1 slice onion. L A teaspoon gluten flour. 

1 cup milk. Salt, pepper. 

Stew and strain the tomatoes and onion, reheat and add 
a tiny pinch of soda. When effervescing subsides add milk. 
Melt the butter, add the flour and gradually pour in the hot 
stock. Season and cook thoroughly. 

1 Dr. Herbert S. Carter, "Diet Lists of the Presbyterian Hospital," New 
Ycrk City; \V. B. Saunders, Phila, Pa. 



SOUP ACCOMPANIMENTS 191 

OYSTER SOUP 

See "Oysters" for recipe. Pages 152-153. 

OYSTER STEW 

See "Oysters" for recipe. Page 153. 

CLAM SOUP 

See "Clams" for recipe. Page 155. 

CLAM BOUILLON 

See "Clams" for recipe. Page 155. 

CLAM BOUILLON BISQUE 

See "Clams" for recipe. Page 156. 

MEAT SOUPS 

Foundation for same, see "Broths." Pages 127-128. 
Soup Accompaniments 

CRISPED CRACKERS 
1 Saltine=15 Calories. 
Split common crackers or use saltines. Put in pan and 
bake until thoroughly heated. Serve plain or buttered 
slightly. 

TOASTED CRACKERS 

Butter crackers, put in pan and bake until a delicate brown. 
Serve on small plate with doily. 

CROUTONS 
1 slice (1% oz.)=100 Calories. 
Take a slice of stale bread about half an inch thick, cut 
into half-inch cubes ; put them in a shallow pan and dry thor- 
oughly, then brown delicately. Stir often to brown evenly. 
Serve on small plate with doily. A little butter may be 
spread on the bread if desired. 



192 ANIMAL FOODS 

DIABETIC NOODLES FOR SOUP, 597 CALORIES 

1 egg. 5 ounces Hoyfs gluten flour. 

1 tablespoon milk. 

Beat the egg very light, add the milk and gluten flour. 
Roll very thin and cut in straws. Cook in any soup. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 

1. What are the disadvantages of a diet consisting very largely of 
animal foods? 

2. Discuss the digestibility of meat. What do you understand by 
the term "digestibility"? 

3. Discuss the nutritive value of meat. 

4. What are the objective points in cooking meat? Illustrate each 
point by outlining a method of cooking meat. 

5. What is the effect of hot and cold water on meat? In what 
methods of cooking meat are these effects taken advantage of? 

6. What factors affect the quality of meat? 

7. What animal organs are used for food? 

8. Mention the points by which you would judge of the quality of 
beef, veal, mutton. 

9. From what part of the animal do the following come : round 
steak, porterhouse steak, sirloin steak, sweetbreads? 

10. Compare the digestibility of beef and pork. Give reasons for 
your answer. 

11. Describe a method of obtaining meat juice. How much juice 
can be obtained from one pound of meat? 

12. Discuss the nutritive value and the place in the diet of beef prep- 
arations. 

13. Outline the principal points in the method of making broth. 

14. Name three substances which can be added to broths to in- 
crease their nutritive value. 

15. Discuss the digestibility of chicken. 

16. What is a general rule for the time to be allowed in roasting 
fowl? 

17. Discuss the digestibility and nutritive value of fish; shell-fish. 

18. How would you tell whether fish is fresh ? 

19. When are oysters in season? 

20. Give a recipe, for oyster soup. Mention the special points to be 
observed in cooking oysters. 

21. Discuss the nutritive value of eggs. In what forms is egg yolk 
most digestible? Egg white? 

22. Compare the composition of egg yolk and egg white. What is 
the energy value of a medium sized egg? Of an average yolk? 
Of an average white? 

23. How would you prepare a soft cooked egg? A poached egg? 

24. What is the percentage composition of whole milk? 

25. What can you say of the digestibility of milk? 



SOUP ACCOMPANIMENTS 193 

26. Discuss the nutritive value of milk. 

27. Why is care in the handling of milk important ? 

28. What is certified milk? Do you think its cost is justified? 

29. What is pasteurized milk? What effect has pasteurization upon 
milk? Describe the method of pasteurizing milk. 

30. When would you advise the sterilization of milk? How is this 
done? How does it affect the milk? 

31. What is modified milk? Buttermilk? Peptonized milk? Malted 
milk? Condensed milk? Evaporated milk? Dry milk? 

32. What is the fuel value of one cup of whole milk? Of one quart? 
Of one cup of skimmed milk? How many tablespoons are. there 
in a 100-calorie portion of thin cream (18%)? In a 100-calorie 
portion of thick cream (40%) ? 

33. State briefly the method oi preparation of cream soups. Discuss 
their food value. 



CHAPTER IX 
VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

The important food products derived from the vegetable 
kingdom are the Cereals — Legumes — Roots and Tubers — 
Leaves and Stems — Fruits — Nuts — Fungi — Lichens. 

Comparative Value of Animal and Vegetable Diets. — An 
animal diet is concentrated and easily digested. If the ani- 
mal foods taken are eggs and milk, no serious objection can 
be urged against them, except that they lack roughage or bal- 
last. The food is so fully absorbed that the large intestine 
has les« stimulus to action and no material for its muscles to 
act upon, and serious complications are likely to arise from 
constipation. If the animal food is largely meat, it is unde- 
sirable, not only for the reason above mentioned but ( I ) be- 
cause excessive quantities of nitrogenous extractives are 
taken, which are likely to cause uric acid disorders and other 
disturbances; (2) because of the excess of proteins, the 
elimination of which is a strain on the kidneys; (3) because 
of the danger of intestinal putrefaction from a high protein 
diet; (4) because important mineral salts are lacking (such 
as calcium, which carnivorous animals get by eating bone) ; 
(5) because of the preponderance of acid-forming elements. 
(See page 14.) 

A strict vegetable diet, on the other hand, while free from 
these objections, is necessarily very bulky, owing to the high 
percentages of water and cellulose, and also to the fact that 
extra allowance must be made because it is less perfectly ab- 
sorbed. Vegetable proteins are not of as high biological 
value as animal proteins, and unless special care is taken a 
vegetable diet is also likely to be low in proteins. Legumes 
and nuts must form a considerable part of the dietary to 

194 



CEREALS 195 

prevent this. When eggs, milk and milk products are added 
to the vegetable foods, the diet becomes mixed and these 
objections no longer hold. 

An Ideal Diet is a mixture of animal and vegetable foods, 
so that protein, fat, carbohydrate and mineral matter and 
vitamines are supplied in proper proportions and in available 
forms and sufficient roughage is afforded for proper intes- 
tinal action. 

Cereals 

GRUELS — STARCHY JELLIES — BREAKFAST FOODS — MACARONI 

Wherever it is possible to grow grains, they are staples of 
man's diet. No other food product of the vegetable kingdom 
equals them in importance. They are cheaply and easily 
grown. 

They can be kept for long periods, are not difficult to cook 
and furnish a palatable and digestible article of diet. Cereals 
alone supply nearly one-fourth of the total food in a large 
number of the American families. Wheat, corn, rye, oats, 
barley, rice and buckwheat are in most common use. 

The natural grain is surrounded by an indigestible husk 
which is always removed. Grains simply hulled or husked 
and slightly crushed are called groats or grits ; more finely 
crushed, they constitute meal ; ground to a powder and sifted 
they form flour. 

Composition. — The chemical composition of some of the 
most common cereals is shown in the following table: 

Carbo- Phos- 

Water Protein Fat hydrate Calcium phorus Iron 

% % % % % % % 

Wheat flour 12.4 11.2 1.0 74.9 0.02 0.092 0.001 

Rice 12.3 8.0 0.3 79.0 0.009 0.096 0.0009 

Rolled oats 7.7 16.7 7.3 66.2 0.069 0.392 0.0038 

Barley, pearled 11.5 8.5 1.1 77.8 0.02 0.181 0.0020 

Cornmeal 12.5 9.2 1.9 75.4 0.018 0.190 0.0009 

The nutrients in largest proportion are the carbohydrates, 
which frequently constitute 75 per cent, of the whole. The 



196 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

ash content is fairly large, especially in the whole grain 
products, as rolled oats and barley. 

Generally speaking, cereals are moderately rich in pro- 
teins, 10-15% °^ their total calories being calories of protein. 

Cereal Breakfast Foods are very similar in composition to 
the grains from which they are made, except that finely milled 
cereals contain little cellulose and are relatively poor in ash. 

Macaroni is much like wheat breakfast foods in composi- 
tion and food value. 

Principles of Cooking. — Cooking improves cereals in many 
ways. For the average person, proper cooking has almost as 
much to do with the nutriment finally obtained as the pro- 
portions of nutrients originally present. Flavor and appear- 
ance are improved, with the gain in digestibility that comes 
from appetizing foods which stimulate the flow of digestive 
juices. Cooking to convert nutrients into more digestible 
forms is very important in the case of cereals which contain 
so much starch, and since the starch in these foods is sur- 
rounded by cell-walls of crude fiber, largely cellulose, upon 
which the digestive juices are unable to act, these walls must 
be broken down. Part of this disintegration may be accom- 
plished in milling and part by thorough mastication, but com- 
plete digestion of the starch is assured only by thorough 
cooking. 

Parching is one of the simplest methods of cooking grains. 
The invisible moisture in the cells is expanded by the heat 
and the cell walls burst. Some of the starch is also made 
soluble or changed to dextrin by this process. The digestibil- 
ity of protein seems to be lessened by cooking at high tem- 
peratures, but the starch can be made almost perfectly di- 
gestible. 

The softening of cellulose is more perfectly accomplished 
by cooking for a long time in the presence of a large amount 
of moisture, as in steaming, or cooking with water or milk 
in a double boiler. The glutinous material which surrounds 
the starch grains and prevents their digestion is disintegrated 
so that the digestive juices can act. In general, the more 



CEREALS 197 

crude fiber a cereal contains, the longer it should be cooked. 
Reference to the table (p. 195) shows that oats require 
more cooking than rice ; whole or partially crushed grains 
than finely ground ones. There is danger in undercooked 
cereals, not only of loss of valuable nutriment through failure 
of digestion, but in irritation of the alimentary tract. This 
should be especially remembered in preparing partially 
cooked breakfast foods. 

When cereals are cooked in water some of it is absorbed 
and soluble substances in the food pass into the remaining 
water. If this is thrown away, as when rice is boiled in a 
large quantity of water and subsequently drained dry, a con- 
siderable part of the nutriment is lost. Rice water frequently 
contains enough dissolved starch to form a jelly on cooling. 
For this reason steaming is a preferable method. Practical 
application of the fact that certain nutrients in cereals are 
soluble is made in the preparation of all kinds of cereal 
waters and starchy jellies. (See Recipes, pp. 311-203.) 

Gruels are thin porridges made from flour or other finely 
ground grain products, with either water or milk. They are 
cooked for a long time until the starch grains are thoroughly 
ruptured and the starch passes into a condition of "colloidal" 
or semi-solution. It is then much more easily acted on by 
the digestive juices. The time of cooking should therefore be 
conscientiously kept by the clock. 

By passing the material through a cheese-cloth or sieve the 
coarser, undissolved portions are removed and the smooth 
product does not irritate weakened digestive organs ; hence 
this method is desirable for invalids and young children. 

In cooking all cereal products, the following points should 
be observed : 

1. Use a double boiler. 

2. Observe the correct proportions of cereal, water and 
salt. 

3. Cook at boiling temperature (21 2° F.). 

4. Watch the time by the clock and always cook the full 

time prescribed, preferably longer. 

5. Serve attractively. 



198 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Improper cooking and poor serving are largely responsible 
for unpopularity of cereal foods. 

Digestibility. — The digestibility of cereals is greatly in- 
fluenced by the mode of preparation and the thoroughness 
with which they are masticated. For the normal healthy 
person cereal foods are very wholesome and, in general, 
easily digested. 

Nutritive Value. — Cereals supply actual digestible nutri- 
ments to the body more cheaply than any other class of foods 
except the dried legumes. All animal foods, especially meats, 
are more expensive than cereals, even as sources of protein. 
For a discussion of the biological value of cereal proteins, 
see page 16. A glance at the composition of cereals shows 
that they are chiefly fuel foods, because of their high carbo- 
hydrate content. Their cost varies with the cost of labor 
and fuel in preparing the food. The comparatively expen- 
sive ready-to-eat breakfast foods do not furnish any extra 
nourishment. Their only advantages are pleasant flavor, 
variety and ease of serving. Cereal products yield on the 
average between 1600 and 1800 calories per pound. Thus : 

1 lb. white flour furnishes 1603 Calories 

1 lb. entire wheat flour furnishes 1633 Calories 

1 lb. cornstarch furnishes 1632 Calories 

1 lb. hominy furnishes 1608 Calories 

1 lb. granulated corn meal furnishes 1613 Calories 

1 lb. tapioca furnishes 1608 Calories 

1 lb. rolled oats furnishes 1803 Calories 

1 lb. rice furnishes 1591 Calories 

Care of Cereals. — Cereals must be kept in a cool, dry 
place ; warmth will favor the development of the maggot 
eggs and moisture when absorbed makes them musty. 

Gruels 

Gruels made of whole grains require long cooking and 
should be strained for infants under one year of age. Whole 
grains such as pearl barley or oat flakes are used in the pro- 
portion of two to four tablespoons to one pint of water, de- 



GRUELS 199 

pending upon the consistency desired. The flour of grain 
is used in the same proportions. 

The calories for gruels in following recipes are approxi- 
mate, as there is no way of calculating how many calories 
are lost when gruel is strained. 

ARROWROOT GRUEL, 2o6 CALORIES 1 

2 teaspoons arrowroot. 1 cup boiling water or milk. 

2 tablespoons cold water. Salt. 

Blend the arrowroot and cold water to a smooth paste. 
Add to the boiling water or milk, stirring constantly. Cook 
in double boiler. 

Arrowroot is the purest form of starch and beneficial in 
case of diarrhcea if not given too hot. 

Note : Sugar, lemon juice, wine or brandy may be added 
as desired. 

BARLEY GRUEL (FOR INFANTS), II4 CALORIES 

2 tablespoons barley flour. 1^4 cup boiling water. 

Y\ cup cold water. Pinch of salt. 

Blend flour and cold water to make a smooth paste, then 
stir it into the briskly boiling salted water, stirring con- 
stantly. After the mixture has boiled, place it in a double 
boiler and cook at least twenty minutes to one-half hour. 
Strain and dilute with hot water to bring the whole up to 
one pint or to the desired consistency of thin paste or jelly. 

Note : For the adult milk may be substituted for water in 
this recipe — Calories, 395. Sugar may be added if desired. 

RICE WHEAT OR OAT GRUEL (FOR INFANTS ) 

These are made from rice, wheat or oat flour exactly as 
barley water, as above described. They may also be made 
from the grain, using the same proportions with longer 
cooking. See "Pearl Barley Water," page 312, for directions 
in cooking. 

1 Calculated with milk. 



200 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

BARLEY GRUEL (WITH BROTH ), 1 89 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

2 cups beef broth. 2 tablespoons cold water. 

2 tablespoons barley flour. % teaspoon salt. 

Mix barley flour and salt with the cold water to form a 
smooth paste. Add gradually to the boiling stock and boil 
one-half hour. Strain and serve very hot. 

CRACKER GRUEL, 243 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 tablespoons sifted cracker "% teaspoon salt, 
crumbs. 1 cup scalded milk. 

Pour hot milk gradually over cracker crumbs, stirring con- 
stantly. Cook in double boiler five minutes or two minutes 
over direct heat. 

Note : Before preparing crumbs, crackers may be baked 
in a slow oven until a delicate brown, or graham crackers 
may be used. A convenient way to prepare the crumbs is to 
put them several times through a meat chopper and then sift. 

FLOUR GRUEL OR THICKENED MILK, 214 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Y\ cup scalded milk. Speck salt. 

34 cup cold milk. 1 dozen raisins. 

Y* tablespoon flour. 

Scald the milk. Mix the flour with the cold milk to make 
a smooth mixture and stir into the scalded milk. Cook in 
a double boiler one-half hour or on back of stove in a sauce- 
pan. 

Stone and quarter the raisins, then add water enough to 
cover ; cook slowly until water has all boiled away. Add to 
gruel just before serving. Add salt. Strain and serve, or 
it may be served with the raisins in it. 

Note : This gruel may be made without the raisins. 
Never use raisins in bowel troubles. 



GRUELS 201 

FARINA GRUEL, 102 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

l / 2 tablespoon farina. J / 2 cup scalded milk. 

J4 cup cold water. Salt. 

l / 2 cup boiling water. 

Mix the farina with the cold water, add to the boiling 
water and boil thirty minutes. Add the scalded milk. 
Taste and season properly. A little sugar may be added if 
desired, or an egg may be beaten and the gruel poured into it. 

CORN MEAL GRUEL, 48 CALORIES 1 

1 tablespoon corn meal. 2 tablespoons cold water. 

y 2 tablespoon flour. \ l / 2 cups boiling water. 

% teaspoon salt. Milk. 

Blend the meal, flour and salt with the cold water to make 
a smooth paste and stir into the boiling water. Cook in a 
double boiler one and one-half hours. Dilute with hot water, 
milk or cream to the desired consistency of thin paste or 
jelly. This may be strained. 

Note : Hot milk mav be substituted for the boiling: water. 



'& 



OATMEAL GRUEL, 1 56 CALORIES 1 

% cup granulated oatmeal. VA cup boiling water. 

y 2 teaspoon salt. Milk or cream. 

Add oatmeal and salt to the boiling water and cook four 
to five hours in a double boiler, adding, more water if neces- 
sary. Strain and dilute with hot milk to make it of the right 
consistency. Reheat and serve. 

Note: Sugar and a little port wine may be added if al- 
lowed and desired. Hot milk may be substituted for the 
boiling water. 

OATMEAL GRUEL, NO. II, 7 1 CALORIES 1 

y* cup rolled oats. ^ teaspoon salt. 

V/3 cup boiling water. Milk or cream. 

1 Without milk or cream. 



202 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Mix the oats, water and salt in top of double boiler. Cook 
over direct heat five minutes and then over hot water one 
hour. Strain, bring to the boiling point and add milk or 
cream as desired. 

EGG AND SHERRY GRUEL, 336 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 egg. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 wineglass sherry (2 oz.). Grating of nutmeg. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 1 cup smooth hot gruel. 

Beat the egg; add wine, lemon, nutmeg and pour on the 
hot gruel. 

CAUDLE, 385 CALORIES 1 

% cup Scotch oatmeal. Juice J A lemon. 

2 quarts water. Sugar, cinnamon, brandy, or 
Salt to taste. wine. 

y 2 cup raisins. 

Boil oatmeal, water and salt four or five hours. Strain ; 
if too thick add a little hot water and whip it with a wooden 
spoon. Remove seeds from raisins, cook a short time in hot 
water and add raisins and water to above. Add lemon juice 
and sugar, cinnamon, brandy or wine to taste. 

FLOUR BALL OR BOILED OR BROWNED FLOUR GRUEL (FOR 
TEETHING CHILDREN) 

Tie one cup of wheat flour in a thick cloth and boil it in 
one quart of water for three hours ; remove the cloth and ex- 
pose the flour to the air or heat until it is hard. Grate from 
it when wanted. Put one tablespoonful into half a pint of 
new milk and stir over the fire until it comes to a boil ; add 
a pinch of salt and a tablespoon of cold water and serve. 
This gruel is excellent for children afflicted with summer 
complaint. Or brown a tablespoon of flour in the oven or on 
top of the stove in a baking tin; feed a few pinches at a 
time to a child and it will often check diarrhoea. 

1 Without sugar or liquor. 



STARCHY JELLIES 203 

DIABETIC SOY BEAN GRUEL, 30 CALORIES 

1 level tablespoon soy flour 4 cups boiling water 

Pour water gradually on the flour and cook fifteen min- 
utes. Season with salt. As this flour contains no starch it 
settles on standing. This may be overcome by adding one to 
two heaping teaspoons of barley, oat or wheat gruel flour be- 
fore cooking. This adds 0.6 to 1.2 per cent starch to the 
gruel, also slightly increases the percentage of protein. One 
to four tablespoons soy flour may be used to one quart of 
water. 

Starchy Jellies 

BARLEY JELLY, 1 62 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

3 tablespoons pearl barley. Vs teaspoon salt. 

1 quart cold water. 

Soak barley over night, drain and add the quart of fresh 
water, add salt, and cook in double boiler steadily for four 
hours down to one pint, adding water from time to time ; 
strain through muslin. When cold this makes a thick jelly. 
Two tablespoons dissolved in eight ounces of warmed and 
sweetened milk may be given at single feeding for infants. 

Xote : Oatmeal, wheaten grits and rice grains may be used 
in same way. 

Barley Jelly may be made using one tablespoon barley 
flour, blended with two tablespoons cold water, one cup 
boiling water and a pinch of salt. Cook twenty minutes, 
strain — Calories, 53. One-half cup of milk may be added if 
desired — Calories, 142. 

RICE JELLY, 205 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

\ l A tablespoons rice. 2 /z cup milk. 

1 cup cold wafer. 1 white of egg. 

Speck salt. 



204 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Wash the rice and soak in cold water two hours, drain off 
the water and add the milk, cook in double boiler one and 
one-half hours. Strain through a fine sieve. Pour into 
molds, chill and serve with fruit juice or cream and sugar. 

TAPIOCA JELLY, I96 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

4 tablespoons pearl tapioca. 2 /z cup boiling water. 

1 cup cold water. Speck salt. 

Soak tapioca in cold water three hours; add boiling 
water and salt ; cook in double boiler two and one-fourth 
hours. Serve hot, plain with cream, wine and powdered 
sugar, or flavor while hot with lemon juice, and chill. 

CORNSTARCH JELLIES 

See "Cornstarch Pudding" for recipe. Page 263. 

Breakfast Foods 

Fruits served with breakfast foods make them more ap- 
petizing. 

Follow directions on package for preparing patent or pre- 
pared cereals, allowing double the given time for cooking. 

HASTY PUDDING OR CORNMEAL MUSH, I40 CALORIES 1 

(Individual Rule.) 

X A. cup cornmeal. % cup cold milk or water. 

Y 2 tablespoon flour. y 2 cup boiling water. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Mix the meal, flour and salt with the cold milk or water ; 
when smooth, stir into the boiling water. Cook in a double 
boiler one hour or more, or over direct heat one-half hour. 
Serve with cream and sugar, or turn into tins to cool if 
wanted for sauteing. Cut into slices, dip in flour and saute 
in drippings or butter. 

1 Calculated without milk or .cream. 



BREAKFAST FOODS 205 

HOMINY AND DATES, 2z|.I CALORIES 

% cup fine hominy. % teaspoon salt. 

V/z cups boiling water. 6 Dromedary Dates. 

Put the hominy, water and salt in top of double boiler and 
cook two hours. Add more boiling water if mush seems stiff 
and thick. Stone and chop the dates and add to the mush 
about three minutes before serving. Dates are delicious 
served with rice or combined with any cereal. 

OATMEAL MUSH FOR CHILDREN AND INVALIDS, 623 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 

1 cup granulated oatmeal. 1 scant quart boiling water. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Put the oatmeal and salt in a double boiler, pour on the 
boiling water and cook three or four hours. Remove the 
cover just before serving and stir with a fork to let the 
steam escape. If the water in the lower boiler be strongly 
salted, the oatmeal will cook more quickly. Serve with sugar 
or salt and cream or milk. 

Note: Baked sour apples, apple sauce and apple jelly are 
delicious eaten with oatmeal. They should be served with 
the mush and sugar and cream poured over the whole. They 
give the acid flavor which so many crave in the morning. 
Coarse oatmeal is not advisable in any form of water brash, 
acidity or bowel irritations. It often causes eruptions on the 
skin in warm weather. 

BOILED RICE 

See "Rice Puddings" for recipe. Page 266. 

STEAMED RICE 

See "Rice Puddings" for recipe. Page 267. 

DIABETIC SOY BEAN BREAKFAST FOOD, 480 CALORIES 1 

1 cup soy flour. 1 gram saccharin dissolved in 

Milk or water. water. 

Salt. 

1 Calculated without milk or cream. 



206 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Moisten the flour with milk or water to make a smooth 
paste, add a pinch of salt and one gram saccharin, which 
should be dissolved before adding. Boil one and one-half 
hours in a double boiler and serve with rich cream. 

Starchy Sauces 

BASIC RECIPES FOR SAUCES 

Proportion: 

a. Liquid... 1 cup; fat...l tablespoon; flour.. 1 tablespoon. 

b. Liquid... 1 cup; fat... 2 tablespoons; flour.. 2 tablespoons. 

c. Liquid... 1 cup; fat... 3 tablespoons; flour.. 3 tablespoons. 

The liquid may be milk, soup stock or strained tomato. 
Salt, pepper, etc., to taste. Average amount of salt, % tea- 
spoon to one cup. Sauce of the first grade is suitable to 
combine with dry materials ; of the second, to use with the 
average fish, meat or vegetables; of the third, for the basis 
of croquettes or" souffles. 

The shape of the dish influences the thickness of the sauce. 
If it is made in a shallow pan the evaporation will be greater. 

Methods of Blending Sauces 

1. Melt fat in saucepan ; add flour mixed with seasonings 
and stir until it bubbles and the starch is thoroughly 
cooked ; remove from the fire, add hot liquid about 1/3 
at a time, stirring until well mixed, then beating until 
smooth and glossy. Boil about one minute. 

2. Melt fat and add flour as above. Remove from fire, 
then add all cold liquid at once. Return to the fire, stir 
steadily until mixture boils. 

3. Cream fat and flour. Add hot liquid, a little at a time. 
Cook until starch is thoroughly cooked about five 
minutes. 

4. Heat milk in double boiler. Stir flour to smooth paste 
with a little cold milk ; add some of the hot liquid, then 
mix with the remainder, stir until blended and cook 
thoroughly 20 to 30 minutes just before serving. Add 
fat, bit by bit, and seasoning. 



MACARONI 207 



DUTCH SAUCE 

Add one cup white or milk sauce, to two beaten tgg yolks 
and cook in double boiler like custard. Flavor with 1 table- 
spoon lemon juice. 

WHITE SAUCE 

White sauce may be varied by different flavors and gar- 
nishes, such as capers, celery, mushrooms, lobsters, oysters, 
etc. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

Tomato for sauce may be seasoned with onion, herbs and 
spices, by cooking them with it for a short time before 
straining. 

Macaroni 

BOILED MACARONI, 98 CALORIES 1 

(Individual Rule.) 

J4 cup macaroni. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 cups boiling water. Cream or milk. 

Break macaroni into one-inch pieces, put into a strainer 
and rinse with cold water. Cook in boiling salted water 
twenty minutes, or until tender. Strain, pour a little cold 
water over it to prevent pieces from adhering ; add cream, 
reheat and season with salt, or serve with White or Tomato 
Sauce and grated cheese. 

WHITE SAUCE, I49 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

V2 cup milk. V 2 tablespoon flour. 

Yz tablespoon butter. Y^ teaspoon salt. 

Scald the milk. Melt the butter, remove from stove and 
add the flour and mix thoroughly, then gradually pour on the 
hot milk, stirring constantly while blending. Cook thor- 

1 Without milk or cream. 



208 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

oughly until there is no taste of raw starch and season with 
salt. 

TOMATO SAUCE, 8 1 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yz cup strained tomato juice. Yz tablespoon flour. 

V2 tablespoon butter. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Scald the tomatoes. Melt the butter and remove from 
stove, add the flour and mix thoroughly, then gradually pour 
on the hot tomato, stirring constantly while blending; cook 
thoroughly until there is no taste of raw starch and season 
with salt and pepper. 

BAKED MACARONI 
1 tablespoon grated fresh cheese= :i 62 Calories. 
Fill a buttered baking-dish with alternate layers of maca- 
roni, white sauce and cheese; then cover with buttered 
cracker crumbs and bake until crumbs are a golden brown. 
Tomato sauce may be substituted for white sauce if desired. 

DIABETIC NOODLES, 597 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 egg, well beaten. 5 ounces Hoyt's gluten flour. 

1 tablespoon milk. 

Beat egg, add milk and gradually add the gluten flour. 
Roll out and cut in thin strips. Serve with any soup. 

DIABETIC BOILED NOODLES OR NOODLES AU GRATIN 

1 tablespoon grated fresh cheese=62 Calories. 

Put the noodles into cold, salted water ; cook at least forty- 
five minutes after it comes to boil, or boil until it is tender. 
Season with pepper and butter. Serve with white sauce or 
place the noodles in a baking-dish in alternate layers with 
grated cheese, having the top layer of cheese; season with 
pepper and butter. Pour over the mixture the water in which 
the noodles were cooked ; or, if preferred, cream or stewed 
tomatoes may be used to moisten. 



BREAD 209 

BUTTERED CRACKER CRUMBS, I97 CALORIES 
1 tablespoon butter. % cup cracker crumbs. 

Melt butter and add cracker crumbs that have been rolled 
fine. To be used for the top of any scalloped dish. Cracker 
crumbs or bread crumbs may be used and bits of butter 
dotted overtop. 

Bread 

From the most remote times, bread has been an important 
part of the diet of mankind. It is to-day probably more gen- 
erally and extensively used than any other one food-stuff, 
with the possible exception of milk. It is therefore extremely 
important to know what constitutes good bread and what are 
its nutritive properties. 

Composition. — The ingredients of bread are very simple — 
flour, water, yeast and salt. Any cereal, cleaned, crushed and 
sifted to a powder, may serve as the flour, but wheat flour 
makes the most satisfactory bread, because its proteins in 
the form of gluten have more elasticity than those of other 
cereals. 

"Bread contains from 34 to 40 per cent, of water and the 
remainder, about 60 per cent, at least, is nutritive material. 
It contains a large amount of carbohydrates, a moderate 
amount of protein, a small amount of mineral matter, and 
almost no fat. Bread could not serve as the sole article of 
diet, because in order to supply enough fuel, protein, and ash 
constituents one would have to eat an impossibly large 
amount, and the diet would still be deficient in vitamines. 
The addition of other foods to increase the protein and ash 
content of the diet decreases the bulk necessary. Most 
methods of increasing the protein contents of bread have a 
tendency to increase the cost, but skimmed milk can be used 
in place of water in the mixing with little added expense and 
it will add about 2 per cent, increase as to protein." 1 

1F ^ on !- Farmer ' s Bulletin No. 389, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washing- 
*£"',. : C> For further information, read, "Bread and Bread-Making," Farmer's 
Bulletin No. 389. 



210 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Digestibility and Nutritive Value. — 'The nutritive value 
of bread depends not only on its chemical composition but 
also on its digestibility and digestibility in its turn seems 
to depend largely on the lightness of the loaf. It is the 
gluten in a dough which gives it the power of stretching 
and rising as the gas from the yeast expands within it and 
hence of making a light loaf. Rye has less gluten protein 
than wheat, while barley, oats and maize have none, % so that 
they do not make a light, porous loaf like wheat. It is pos- 
sible that of the various kinds of wheat flour those con- 
taining a large part of the bran — entire wheat and graham 
flours — furnish the body with more mineral matter than 
fine white flour, but it is not certain that the extra amount 
of mineral matter furnished is of the same value as that from 
the interior of the grain. They do not yield more digestible 
protein than the white flours, as was for a time supposed. 
It seems safe to say that, as far as is known, for a given 
amount of money, white flour yields the most caloric nourish- 
ment with the various food ingredients in good proportion. 
It should be remembered, however, that all kinds of bread 
are wholesome if of good quality and the use of several 
kinds is an easy means of securing variety in the diet." 1 

As compared with most meats and vegetables, bread has 
practically no waste and is very completely digested. Few 
foods yield so much energy for so little money. A diet of 
bread and milk can be perfectly balanced and will be tired of 
less easily than any other equally simple diet. 

All bread-stuffs should be eaten slowly and thoroughly 
masticated, in order that time may be given for the saliva 
to act upon the starch, for if the stomach is hampered with 
quantities of unchanged starch it cannot perform its work 
without effort. Fermentation results or the intestines have 
more than their share of work to do and rebel. If these foods 
were eaten slowly much of the resultant dyspepsia would be 
avoided. 

1 From Farmer's Bulletin No. 389, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washing- 
ton, D. C. 



BREAD 211 

Gluten Bread. — Gluten flour is prepared by washing the 
starch wholly or in part from wheat flour. The grayish, 
tough, elastic, sticky mass left after this process is largely 
gluten. The washed gluten dried and ground is called gluten 
flour. It contains considerable starch, so that it is necessary 
for the physician to know the exact composition of the brand 
employed in order to insure good results. 

Bran Bread. — Bran is now extensively used in the diet of 
diabetic patients. If cooked with bacon fat, butter or eggs 
the flavor is much improved. Bran often contains a consid- 
erable quantity of starch. This may be washed out by 
putting bran in cheese-cloth and washing under cold water 
tap until water is clear, or by boiling. See page 217. 

Cellu (cellulose) flour is a non-nutritive flour. It is pre- 
pared from specially purified vegetable fiber. It serves as a 
basis for bulk in filling out restricted diets, such as in the 
Allen treatment of diabetes. By admixture with India gum, 
washed bran, mineral oil and flavors, non-nutritive food 
substitutes can be prepared. 

Soy Bean Bread. — Soy bean or soy bean flour contains a 
small amount of sugar, but few foods so valuable to the dia- 
betic contain so little, and the flour is used to great advantage 
in diabetes. The average composition is water 10%, pro- 
tein 35%, fat 18^:, sugar 8 or 9%, while the remainder is 
made up of fiber and non-nitrogenous extract. One ounce 
contains 13 grams of protein and 120 calories. 

Bread-Making. — The two practical methods of making 
bread are with yeast (fermented bread) and .with cream of 
tartar and bicarbonate of soda (unfermented bread). 

Fermented Bread. — The raising or leavening of bread is 
usually brought about by allowing yeast to develop in it. 
Yeast is an exceedingly minute form of plant life, which 
grows when given flour, moisture and warmth and by this 
growth produces carbon dioxide and alcohol. 

The carbon dioxide, in its effort to escape, puffs up the 
flour dough, but owing to the viscous nature of the gluten 



212 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

(the elastic, strength-giving substances of flour) it is caught 
and retained. 

Each little bubble of gas occupies a certain space, and 
when the bread is baked the walls around these spaces 
harden, the result being a porous loaf. The alcohol escapes 
into the oven in the baking. 

Baking bread requires a hot oven. 

The bread should continue to rise for about fifteen min- 
utes after being placed in the oven, then the rising should 
cease and the loaf begin to brown. 

We bake bread to kill the yeast plant, to render the starch 
more digestible, to expel the alcohol and carbon dioxide and 
to form a well-flavored crust. 

The making of good bread requires care and intelligence 
on the part of the cook. Use a good brand of flour, fresh 
yeast, remembering that yeast is a plant and must be put at 
a proper temperature to grow. Watch each process carefully. 

"Lightness and sweetness of bread depends as much on 
the way in which it is made as on the materials used. The 
greatest care should be used in preparing and baking the 
dough and in cooking and keeping the finished bread/' 

Unfermented Bread. — Carbon dioxide lightens bread by 
causing cream of tartar and bicarbonate of soda to unite 
chemically. 

To one part soda use two parts cream of tartar. When 
given moisture and heat carbon dioxide is obtained. 

Baking powder is a combination of the following in- 
gredients : 

Bicarbonate of soda 84 grammes 

Cream of tartar 188 grammes 

Starch 5 to 20 per cent. 

General Rules for Flour Mixtures. — Use wheat flour un- 
less otherwise stated. 

If pastry flour is substituted for wheat flour, increase the 
quantity 2 tablespoons to I cup flour. 

Sift the flour before measuring. 



BREAD 213 

Sift again with the dry ingredients. 

The pans should be ready and the oven should be heated 
before the ingredients are put together. The mixture should 
be put into the oven as soon as prepared. 

For the Diabetic, Bread and Sugar Substitutes 
Bread Substitutes. — When for any reason persons are 
curtailed in the use of starch in a diet, as in diabetes, they 
find it a great privation to do without bread and an acceptable 
substitute may be used. However, a diabetic bread should 
never be prescribed without a knowledge of its content of 
carbohydrates, protein and fat. 

Sugar Substitutes. — Sweetina, or saccharin tablets, may 
be used to sweeten bread substitutes or for any food needing 
sweetening for the diabetic. To one bottle of "sweetina" 
add one pint winter. One teaspoon of this is equal to one pint 
of' sugar. Dissolve one-half grain "saccharin" in one tea- 
spoon water or one "saccharin tablet" in two tablespoons of 
water. 

Energy Value of Bread 

1 small slice (1 oz.) white bread 73 Calories 

1 large slice (1% oz.) white bread 100 Calories 

1 small slice (1 oz.) entire wheat bread 74 Calories 

1 small slice (1 oz.) gluten bread 70 Calories 

1 small slice (1 oz.) Boston brown bread 64 Calories 

1 large slice (1% oz.) Boston brown bread... 115 Calories 

WHITE FLOUR BREAD 

1 slice (1% oz.)=100 Calories. 

1 pint hot milk (or water). 1 tablespoon salt. 

1 pint cold milk (or water). 1 Fleischmann's yeast cake. 

1 tablespoon sugar. Flour (about 3 quarts). 

2 tablespoons butter or lard. 

Put the scalded milk into mixing bowl ; add the butter ; 
when melted add the sugar, salt and cold milk. Save one- 
half cup of this liquid and when lukewarm soften the yeast 
in it and stand where it will keep warm. To above mixture 
add warmed sifted flour (sift twice before using) to make a 
thin batter, add softened yeast and more flour until stiff 



214 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

enough to knead. Knead until light and spongy. Care 
should be taken not to add more flour than is absolutely 
necessary. Butter a large stone crock or bowl, place bread in 
it and cover. Let rise three and one-half hours at about 75 
degrees Fahrenheit (in a medium warm room) . Then remove 
from jar and knead about twenty minutes until smooth and 
velvety, put into pans, cover carefully and let rise one hour 
or until double its bulk. 

Bake in a hot oven from forty-five minutes to one hour, 
depending upon size of loaves. 

If hard crust is desired, remove from pans and cool in a 
draft of air. For soft crust, roll bread in a clean cloth 
while still hot. 

This quantity will make three good sized loaves ; one-half 
the amount may be used for one large loaf. 

ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD 
1 slice (1 oz.)=74 Calories. 

2 cups scalded milk. 2 yeast cakes dissolved in x / 2 

2 cups boiling wafer. cup lukewarm water. 

3 tablespoons butter. 2 cups white flour. 

3 tablespoons salt. Entire wheat flour enough to 

5 tablespoons molasses. knead. 

Make as for wheat flour bread and add molasses after the 

first rising. 

One-half of recipe may be used. 

WHOLE WHEAT OR GRAHAM BREAD 

Make the same as wheat flour bread adding two table- 
spoons of sugar or molasses. Make a batter with white flour, 
using three or four cups, then use whole wheat or graham 
flour. Let rise longer than for white bread and put imme- 
diately into pans without second kneading. 

Note: Sweetening may be omitted if desired. 

DIABETIC GLUTEN BREAD 

1 slice (I oz.)=70 Calories. 

V2 yeast cake. 3^4 cups Hoyt's gluten flour. 

2 cups lukewarm water- % teaspoon salt. 



BREAD 215 

Soften the yeast in a small portion of the water and add 
to the ingredients. Mix to a stiff dough and knead thor- 
oughly, using more gluten if necessary to keep it from stick- 
ing to the board. Shape into a loaf, place in a buttered pan 
for about two and one-half hours to rise until the dough is 
about twice its bulk. Then bake for forty-five minutes. If 
desired the dough may be given a second mixing after the 
first rising, letting it rise again before baking. 

Note : Gluten bread may be made the same as ordinary 
wheat flour bread with the exception of shortening, which is 
not required. 

Avoid having the water too warm or the bread will be 
sticky ; the chill taken off is all that is necessary. 

If desired one cup of nut meats cut in small pieces may be 
added to dough just before putting into pans. 

BRAN BREAD 

Follow rule for Gluten Bread, using one part of bran to 
four parts of Gluten Flour with one cup of moisture. If 
the bran is increased the moisture must be lessened. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD, 20/4 CALORIES 

1 large slice (1% oz.) = 115 Calories. 

1 cup granulated Indian meal. 2 cups sour milk. 

1 cup rye flour. 2 teaspoons soda. 

1 cup graham flour. y A cup molasses. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Mix dry- ingredients (except soda) together ; dissolve soda 
in sour milk after which add molasses. Pour into buttered 
tins and steam three or four hours. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT, 63O CALORIES 1 

1 cup flour. l /+ teaspoon salt. 

\y 2 level teaspoons Rumford 1 tablespoon butter or lard, 
baking powder. y 2 cup (scant) milk or water. 

Sift dry ingredients twice, rub in the butter with tips of 
fingers ; using knife, gradually stir in the liquid ; mix as 

»With milk. 



216 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

soft as can be handled ; put dough on a well-floured board, 
pat lightly to one inch thickness, cut with biscuit cutter, 
put on a shallow buttered tin, heated, and bake in a hot oven. 
Put a little milk on top of each biscuit before baking to make 
them brown well. 

Note: Dough may be lightly kneaded as for bread and 
then cut. 

WHITE GEMS, I5II CALORIES 

2 cups flour. 2 tablespoons butter. 
1 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

3 level teaspoons Rumford bak- 2 eggs. 

ing powder. 1 cup milk. 

Sift dry ingredients into mixing bowl, add the well-beaten 
eggs and the milk gradually, then the butter melted and beat 
all well together. Have gem pans well greased and heated ; 
fill two-thirds full and bake in a very hot oven fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Put a little melted butter on each gem 
before putting it into the oven. They are sufficiently cooked 
if when tested with a fine washed knitting needle it comes 
out dry. 

CORNMEAL GEMS, I320 CALORIES 

1 cup flour. Y teaspoon salt. 

Yz cup cornmeal. 1 egg. 

Yz cup sugar. 1 cup milk. 

3 level teaspoons Rumford bak- 1 tablespoon melted butter, 
ing powder. 

Sift dry ingredients into mixing bowl, add the milk and 
well-beaten egg and the melted butter. Put into well-greased 
hot gems and cook in a quick oven. 

BRAN MUFFINS, 79I CALORIES 

Y cup flour. Yz cup sweet milk. 

Y2 teaspoon soda. 2Yi tablespoons molasses. 

Ya teaspoon salt. 1 egg. 

1 cup bran. 

Sift flour, soda and salt into mixing bowl and add the 
bran, milk, molasses and well-beaten egg. Bake in gem pans 
in quick oven. 



BREAD 217 



DIABETIC BRAN CAKES, 832 CALORIES 1 

Bran, 2 cups. Egg-white (1), 33 grams. 

Melted butter, 30 grams. Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 

Eggs (whole) 2. Water. 

Tie bran in cheese-cloth and wash thoroughly by fastening 
on the water tap, until the water comes away clear. The 
bran should be frequently kneaded so that all parts come in 
contact with the water. Wring dry. Mix bran, well-beaten 
whole eggs, butter and salt. Beat the egg white very stiff and 
fold in at the last. Shape with knife and tablespoon into 
three dozen small cakes. If desired one-half a gram of cin- 
namon or other flavoring may be added. Each cake contains : 
protein, 0.5 grams; fat, 1.0 grams; calories, 11. 

DIABETIC WASHED BRAN 2 

Boil the bran with abundant water three times in succes- 
sion, straining off the water through a cloth each time. After 
the final straining, the wet bran is ready for use in the bran 
muffins, cakes, etc. 

DIABETIC BRAN BISCUIT 2 

India Gum or gum arabic 25 grams 

Bran 360 " 

Water 75 " 

Weigh bran. Wash or boil out starch, as described above. 
Mix gum and water to make a thick paste. Mix with washed 
bran, kneading the bran and gum together thoroughly. 
Spread in thin layer on baking pans and press smoothly and 
firmly. Cut the bran into desired size before cooking. Bake 
in a moderate oven until biscuits are dry and crisp. Caraway 
seeds may be added before baking if desired. This recipe 
is on the whole better than that with agar. 

1 Dr. Elliott P. Joslin, "The Treatment of Diabetes Mellitus." Lea & 
Febiger. Philadelphia, Pa., 1916. 

2 Dr. Frederick M. Allen, Director, The Psychiatric Institute, Morristown, 
New Jersey. 



218 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

DIABETIC BRAN AND CELLUFLOUR MUFFINS 1 

Bran (washed) 50 grams 

Celluflour 80 grams 

Baking powder 10 grams 

India gum or gum arabic 10 grams 

Hot water 150 c.c. 

Saccharin 1 grain 

Mineral oil (or petrolatum jelly) 60 grams 

Mix dry ingredients, add oil and saccharin dissolved in 
hot water, mix thoroughly. Mold in muffin tins and bake in 
a slow oven, increasing the heat to brown the muffins. 

DIABETIC SOY BEAN MUFFINS, 120,0 CALORIES 

\% cups soy flour. 1 cup milk. 

y 2 cup wheat flour. 3 teaspoons (level) baking pow- 

Vz teaspoon salt. der. 

2 eggs. V/2 tablespoons melted butter. 

Sift dry ingredients into mixing bowl, add the milk and 
well-beaten eggs and the melted butter. Put into well- 
greased hot gem pans and cook in a hot oven about fifteen 
minutes. The carbohydrates produced by the above will be 
280. Soy bean cake may be made the same as above adding 
chopped nuts, spices or chocolate, etc., for flavor. 

BUTTER BALLS 
1 teaspoon butter = 33 Calories. 
Cut butter in small pieces size of balls desired and put 
into ice-water. Soak the butter paddles in boiling water ten 
minutes, then chill in ice-water. Hold a paddle firmly in 
the left hand and roll each piece of butter with the right 
paddle until round. If butter sticks it must be chilled longer, 
or paddles must be rubbed with salt and reheated. 
One pound of butter will make about thirty balls. 

Toast 

In ordinary wheat bread, starch is the principal constituent. 
Starch when subjected to a high degree of heat is changed 
into an easily digested substance called dextrin. 

*Dr. Frederick M. Allen, Director, The Psychiatric Institute, Morristown, 

New Jersey. 



TOAST 219 

In the ordinary cooking of a loaf of bread the starch in 
the outer layer is changed into dextrin, which gives the crust 
its sweet flavor. Slices of bread toasted undergo a similar 
change on the surface of the bread ; the interior is not 
affected. 

Bread is toasted not merely to brown it but to take out 
all the moisture possible, so that it may be more thoroughly 
moistened with the saliva and thus more easily digested ; also 
to give it a better flavor. The correct way to make toast is 
to use stale bread cut in uniform slices and dried thoroughly 
before browning. 

Toast prepared in this way, even if moistened with milk 
or water, may be easily and thoroughly acted upon by the 
digestive fluids. 

Proportions for Cream or White Sauces to Serve with 
Toast. — Liquid, 1 cup ; fat, 1 tablespoon ; flour, 1 tablespoon. 
Average amount of salt, ]/^ teaspoonful. The shape of the 
dish in which the sauce is made influences the thickness of 
the sauce. If it is made in a shallow pan or in small quan- 
tity the evaporation will be greater and thus slightly more 
liquid or slightly less flour will be necessary. 

Energy Value of Bread 

1 small slice (1 oz.) white bread 73 Calories 

1 large slice (1% oz.) white bread 100 Calories 

1 small slice (1 oz.) entire wheat bread 74 Calories 

1 small slice (1 oz.) gluten bread 70 Calories 

1 small slice (1 oz.) Boston brown bread 64 Calories 

1 large slice (1% oz.) Boston brown bread... 115 Calories 

See Table, page 58, for energy value of other ingredients. 

DRIED BREAD (FOR CHILDREN) 

Cut thin slices of either stale or fresh bread (whole wheat 
preferred) and place on top of the stove or in the oven with 
the door open and dry quickly until it is crisp, but not 
burned. In many respects preferable to crackers for little 
children. 



220 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

SIPPETS 

Cut thin slices of bread and from them make oblongs an 
inch wide by four inches long. Toast carefully so that they 
will not break and pile on a small bread-plate with doily if 
they are to be served dry. 

CROUTONS 

See chapter, "Soup Accompaniments," for recipe. Page 
191. 

DIABETIC GLUTEN CRISP 

Cut gluten bread into thin slices and dry in slow oven 
until the moistening is thoroughly evaporated, or cut into 
cubes and brown slightly. Serve in soups or in milk. 

WATER TOAST 

Toast the bread. Dip quickly in boiling salted water, al- 
lowing one-half teaspoon salt to one cup water. Spread 
with butter and serve on hot plate. 

TOASTED CRACKERS 
1 saltine = 15 Calories. 
Toast oblong crackers daintily and butter. Serve on plate 
with doily, piled log-cabin fashion. 

MILK TOAST, 469 CALORIES 

Put a cup of rich milk into a saucepan and place it on the 
stove. While it is heating, toast three slices of bread to a 
delicate brown. Put them into a covered dish and when the 
milk is scalding hot season it with a saltspoon of salt and 
pour it over the toast. 

Note : A little butter may be spread on each slice before 
the milk is 'added, but it is a more delicate dish without it. 

CREAM TOAST NO. I, 299 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
Yz tablespoon butter. Vz cup milk. 

V2 tablespoon flour. V/z thick slices bread. 

% teaspoon salt. 



TOAST 221 

Scald the milk. Melt butter, add flour, remove from fire 
and add the milk gradually. Stir over heat constantly until 
smooth, cooking five minutes after blending, or until the 
starch is thoroughly cooked. 

Toast. — Remove crust if desired, cut into oblong pieces 
and toast. Serve on small platter with cream sauce poured 
over it and garnish with toast points. 

Note: If you wish the toast very soft it may be dipped 
very quickly in boiling salt water before adding the cream 
sauce. 

CREAM TOAST NO. II, 299 CALORIES 

y 2 tablespoon butter. 1 tablespoon cold water. 

Vi tablespoon flour. }/ 2 cup milk. 

% teaspoon salt. \y 2 thick slices toast. 

Scald milk. Mix flour and salt and add the cold water 
gradually, making a smooth, thin paste. Add to scalded 
milk ; cook in double boiler twenty minutes, stirring con- 
stantly until it thickens. Add butter. Pour over toast and 
serve hot, on hot platter. 

CELERY TOAST 

Clean celery and cut into one-inch pieces ; cover with boil- 
ing water and cook until tender ; drain off water. 

Prepare Cream Sauce in Cream Toast No. I ; add cooked 
celery and pour on small slices of buttered toast. Garnish 
with toast points. 

CLAM BROTH ON TOAST 

Follow directions as for Milk or Cream Toast, adding 
Clam Broth, to taste, to the sauce and pour over toast. 
Serve hot. 

DIABETIC FRENCH TOAST, 457 CALORIES 

1 egg. Salt. 

3 tablespoons milk. 5 slices gluten bread. 

Beat the egg, add milk or cream and salt; dip into this 



222 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

mixture slices of the bread, or muffins if preferred. Saute 
and brown in a little butter. 

Sandwiches 

TO PREPARE SANDWICHES 

Use white, entire wheat, graham, gluten or Boston brown 
bread. Bread may be buttered before cutting from loaf. 
Spread with soft, plain butter, cut into very thin slices, cover 
with another slice, press together, cut into fancy shapes, or 
roll. Wrap in waxed paper or cover with a dry napkin, 
over which place a slightly moistened one until ready to 
serve. 

Bread may be baked purposely for sandwiches by filling 
one-half pound baking powder boxes half full of dough, 
allowing to rise and bake. Serve sandwiches on a dainty 
doily on a small plate. 

Energy Value of Bread 

1 small slice (1 oz.) white bread 73 Calories 

1 large slice (1% oz.) white bread 100 Calories 

1 slice (1 oz.) entire wheat bread 74 Calories 

1 slice (1 oz.) gluten bread 70 Calories 

1 small slice (1 oz.) Boston brown bread 64 Calories 

1 large slice (1% oz.) Boston brown bread... 115 Calories 

See Table, page 58, for energy value of other ingredients. 

BREAD AND BUTTER SANDWICHES 

Butter bread slightly, cut very thin and put slices together. 
Cut into fancy shapes. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD SANDWICHES 

Steam Boston brown bread in one-half pound baking pow- 
der cans. Butter and cut into thin slices and add a thin 
round of white bread. The combination of the two makes a 
pleasing variety. 



SANDWICHES 223 



CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Chop stuffed olives fine and add equal quantity of cream 
cheese and spread on bread and butter sandwiches. A lettuce 
leaf may be added if desired. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES 

Chop cold boiled chicken, add mayonnaise dressing and 
spread on bread and butter sandwiches. 

Or, instead of mayonnaise, moisten with strong chicken 
broth and season with salt and pepper. Minced celery may 
be added. 

EGG SANDWICHES 

See "Eggs" for recipe. Page 164. 

FRUIT SANDWICHES 

Spread bread and butter sandwiches with stewed dates, 
figs or prunes, seasoned with a little lemon juice, or chop 
dates, raisins and nuts very fine and moisten with "Cream 
Dressing." See page 242. 

LETTUCE OR NUT SANDWICHES 

Spread bread and butter sandwiches with a little mayon- 
naise dressing, lay in fresh, crisp lettuce leaves washed and 
dried thoroughly and cut even. For nut sandwiches add 
chopped nuts to the mayonnaise. 

RAW BEEF SANDWICHES 

See "Beef Preparations" for recipe. Page 125. 

DATE SANDWICHES 

Combine chopped Dromedary Dates with chopped pecan 
nut meats or cottage cheese and spread on slices of wheat 
bread, which have been spread with thick, sweet cream or 
soft butter. 



224 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Crackers — Wafers — Griddle Cakes 

BRAN CRACKERS, 1 395 CALORIES 1 

1^2 cups wheat bran. y 2 teaspoon salt. 

\y 2 cups sifted flour. 4 tablespoons butter. 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar. Milk. 

y 2 teaspoon soda. 

Blend all ingredients, using enough cold milk to make a 
stiff dough. Roll to one-eighth inch thickness and cut with 
a small biscuit cutter. Great care is needed in baking that 
they do not burn and at the same time that they are thor- 
oughly cooked. 

They keep well a long time if put in a tin box. 

They should be eaten at each meal if needed as purgative 
medicine. 

WHEATSWORTH WHOLE WHEAT CRACKERS 

Wheatsworth crackers are made with genuine whole 
wheat flour containing all the bran. They are appetizing and 
are used by many as a complete substitute for bread. 

For breakfast and luncheon wheatsworth crackers broken 
up in a bowl of milk or cream make a nourishing meal for 
children and adults. They are delicious spread with butter, 
cheese, jam, etc. 

DELICIOUS CRACKERS 

White of one egg. $4 CU P stoned Dromedary 

Pinch of salt. Dates, chopped. 

Beat slightly the white of egg with salt. Add the chopped 
dates, spread on unsweetened crackers, pressing down firmly, 
and put in moderate oven for three minutes. This is a de- 
licious cracker, particularly suitable for small children. 

DIABETIC GLUTEN WAFERS, 944 CALORIES 

y 2 cup thick cream. 1 cup Hoyt's gluten flour. 

J4 teaspoon salt. 

1 Without milk. 






CRACKERS— WAFERS— GRIDDLE CAKES 225 

Add salt to the cream and add the gluten gradually to 
make a stiff dough. Toss on a floured board, roll as thin 
as possible and cut into strips with sharp knife or shape 
with a cutter. Bake on a buttered sheet in a slow oven until 
delicately browned. 

DIABETIC GRIDDLE CAKES 1 

1 egg. Mineral oil or butter. 

Cellu flour. 

Beat egg until light and creamy; add salt, 50 c.c. water 
and cellu flour to make a thick batter. Fry on a hot griddle 
greased with mineral oil or butter. Serve with substitute 
maple syrup. 

DIABETIC MAPLE SYRUP 1 

Agar-agar 4 grams 

Water 1 cup 

Mapleine extract y\ teaspoon 

Saccharin y A grain 

Dissolve agar-agar in one cup of hot water, cook until 
the mixture is clear ; add mapleine, remove from the fire and 
add saccharin. Serve hot. 



Cake 

The two methods of making cake light are by means of 
air and of gas. Air is introduced by beating, or by the 
addition of beaten eggs, as in sponge cake. When the light- 
ness is entirely dependent upon air, the whites and yolks of 
eggs should be beaten separately. 

Gas may be generated from within by combining an acid 
or acid salt with a carbonate and adding moisture ; as cream 
of tartar and bicarbonate of soda ; or sour milk and soda ; or 
molasses and soda. The combination of both air and gas is 
used to raise butter cakes. 

General Directions for Cake Making. — Before blending 

J Dr. Frederick M. Allen, Director, The Psychiatric Institute, Morristown, 
New Jersey. 



226 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

the cake, see that the oven is at right temperature for baking 
and the pans greased with a little beef fat and dredged with 
flour. The pan may be lined with paper to prevent cake 
burning on bottom when cake requires long baking or when 
the oven bakes too quickly on the bottom. Have all material 
at hand and measured. Sift flour before measuring; sift 
again with dry ingredients. If pastry flour is substituted for 
wheat flour, increase the quantity 2 tablespoons to each cup 
of flour. Use a round bottom bowl and a wooden spoon 
for mixing ; beat rather than stir the mixture and fold in in- 
gredients. Put mixture into cake pans, slightly higher on the 
sides than in the center, as cake rises more quickly in the 
center. The mixture should be put into the oven as soon as 
prepared. Layer cake takes a hotter oven than loaf cake. 
If cake is baked properly it will rise but not brown during 
first quarter Oi the time required for baking; become slightly 
browned the second quarter ; well browned during the third, 
and shrink from the pan during the fourth. 

If the oven is too hot, a crust will form over the top be- 
fore the cake has risen sufficiently and the cake will break 
open on the top. If the oven is too cool the cake will rise too 
much and will be of coarse texture. 

Place pans in oven and do not move them before the third 
quarter of the baking. If the top of the cake should brown 
too quickly cover with a piece of light weight paper, slightly 
buttered on the side next to the cake. 

Cake is sufficiently baked if upon testing, a fine knitting 
needle or broom straw comes out dry, or when the cake feels 
firm and shrinks slightly from the edge of the pan. In look- 
ing at cake open the oven door slightly and only for a 
moment. Care must be taken not to jar the door in closing. 

SPONGE CAKE, 1 375 CALORIES 

4 eggs. V/2 level teaspoons Rumford's 
1 cup powdered sugar. baking powder. 

2/4 cup bread flour. Rind and juice of */ 2 

y 2 teaspoon salt. lemon. 

Beat eggs separately, very light. To the yolks add the 






CAKES 227 

sugar and lemon, carefully sift in the flour blended with the 
baking powder and beat about five minutes, then fold in 
the whites. Bake in a well-greased and floured angel cake 
tin in a moderate oven. 

COLD WATER SPONGE CAKE, 1 58/ CALORIES 

2 eggs. 2 level teaspoons Rumford 

1 cup sugar. baking powder. 

6 tablespoons cold water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

IJ/3 cups bread flour. 

Beat the yolks and whites separately. To the yolks add 
the sugar and beat well ; add lemon juice and cold water ; sift 
flour and baking powder together three times and add grad- 
ually, beating thoroughly. 

Fold in the well-beaten whites. Bake in well-greased and 
floured gem tins, or shallow pan in a moderate oven. 

PLAIN CAKE, 221/ CALORIES 

2 eggs. 4 tablespoons butter. 

Yz cup milk. 2 level teaspoons Rumford 

1 cup sugar. baking powder. 

W2 cups bread flour blended 1 teaspoon flavoring or spices, 
with 2 tablespoons corn- 
starch. 

Line the pan with buttered paper ; separate eggs. Cream 
the butter, add the sugar gradually, then the well-beaten yolks 
and flavoring. Add alternately the milk and the flour and 
baking powder sifted together. Beat well and fold in the 
stiffly-beaten white. Put at once into a well-lined and greased 
pan and bake in a hot oven about thirty minutes. 

The cake may be varied by adding one-fourth cup cur- 
rants, or a few. raisins and a little citron, or mixed spices, or 
a little melted chocolate. Before adding fruit to cake it 
should be slightly floured. 

BOILED FROSTING, 857 CALORIES 

1 cup sugar. White 1 egg. 

14 teaspoon cream of tartar. % teaspoon flavoring. 

Vz cup cold water. 



228 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Boil the sugar, cream of tartar and cold water without stir- 
ring until it threads from spoon and pour gradually over 
the well-beaten white of egg. Add any flavoring to taste. 
Beat until thick and spread quickly. A little chocolate may 
be added for variety, or chopped nuts, cocoanut, etc. 

MARGUERITE WAFERS 

Take "Long Branch" or saltine wafer crackers and spread 
with plain-boiled frosting, or add nuts, chocolate, cocoanut, 
etc. Put into oven a moment to dry, but not brown. Dainty 
to serve with Ice Cream, Ices and Sherbet. 

GINGER BREAD, 235 1 CALORIES 

1 egg. Y2 cup boiling water. 

1 cup molasses. 1 teaspoon ginger. 

7 tablespoons melted butter. \ l / 2 cups bread flour or 

1 teaspoon soda. 2 cups pastry flour. 

Beat egg in mixing bowl ; add molasses, melted butter, and 
gradually one cup of flour. To the remaining flour add the 
soda and ginger, sift and add to mixture ; beat well and add 
the boiling water. Bake in well-greased and floured gem 
tins, or shallow pan, in a hot oven about twenty minutes. 

DIABETIC GLUTEN NUT CAKE 

1 tablespoon butter. y 2 teaspoon sweetina. 1 

Yolks 2 eggs. Salt and spices. 

Whites 2 eggs. 1 cup nut meats. 

2 /s cup sour milk. Hoyt's gluten flour. 
1 teaspoon soda. 

Cream the butter, add the well-beaten yolks and sweetina 
syrup, then the sour milk in which the soda has been blended. 
Add gluten flour gradually to make a stiff batter. 

DIABETIC OATMEAL COOKIES, 766 CALORIES 2 

V/2 cups dry rolled oatmeal. 1 cup buttermilk with % tea- 

1 egg. spoon soda or 

1 tablespoon butter. 1 cup sweet milk and 1 tea- 

1 teaspoon salt. spoon baking powder. 

1 Note sugar substitutes, page. 213. 

2 Calculated with sweet milk. 



VEGETABLES 229 

Melt the butter and add to the dry oatmeal. Add the well- 
beaten egg and the milk last, with soda or baking powder. 
Drop by spoonfuls on pan and bake in hot oven. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 

1. Give two methods of making cake light. 

2. Outline the general points to be observed in making cake. 

Vegetables — Vegetable Sauces 

LEGUMES ROOTS AND TUBERS GREEN VEGETABLES 

Vegetables include nearly all kinds of plant food except 
fruits, grains and nuts. 

Classification. — Vegetables are classified as: 

1. Legumes — peas, beans and lentils. 

2. Roots and Tubers — potatoes, beets, turnips, etc. 

3. Stems and Leaves (green vegetables) — lettuce, spinach, 
celery, etc. 

Composition. — All vegetables with the exception of 
legumes have a high percentage of water and a relatively 
small proportion of proteins. The chief organic constituents 
are starch and sugar. The fats and proteins are usually 
small in amount. As a class, vegetables are rich in mineral 
matter. 

Digestibility. — As the gastric ferments play no part in 
carbohydrate digestion, vegetables are digested mainly in the 
intestines. The presence of cellulose prevents the rapid di- 
gestion of the nutrients, hence it may be stated as a general 
rule that vegetable food is less completely digested and ab- 
sorbed than animal food. It would seem desirable to restrict 
this type of food for persons of very weak digestive powers. 

Legumes. Of this class of foodstuffs, peas, beans, lentils 
and peanuts are the most important. 

Composition. — Fresh legumes, such as peas and beans, 
contain from 2 per cent, to 9 per cent, of protein, a trace of 
fat and from 7 per cent, to 30 per cent, of carbohydrate. 

Dried legumes, such as dr^d peas and beans, on account 






230 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

of the lessened amount of water, contain from 18 per cent, to 
35 per cent, of protein, over i per cent, fat, and as high as 
65 per cent, carbohydrate. They form one of the chief sources 
of protein in a strictly vegetarian diet. They also furnish 
considerable amounts of iron, phosphorus and calcium. Di- 
gestibility depends largely upon the method of cooking and 
the amount eaten. 

Roots and Tubers. Roots and tubers contain the reserve 
material stored up by the plant and some of them, as potatoes, 
are among the most important foodstuffs. Their nutritive 
value is due largely to starch and sugar. On account of the 
small proportion of protein and fat, and the large proportion 
of water they are inferior in nutritive value to both legumes 
and cereals. The mineral matter, chiefly sodium, potassium, 
iron, phosphorus and sulphur, is an important constituent of 
these as of other vegetable foods. 

The potato is one of the most important of the "starchy" 
vegetables. It is a tuber or thickened underground stem. 

The composition of the potato E. P. is as follows : 

Water 78.3 per cent. 

Carbohydrate 18.4 per cent. 

Protein 2.2 per cent. 

Fat 0.1 per cent. 

Calcium 0.014 per cent. 

Phosphorus 0.058 per cent. 

Iron 0.0013 per cent. 

Magnesium 0.028 per cent. 

Potassium 0.429 per cent. 

Sodium 0.021 per cent. 

Chlorine 0.038 per cent. 

When pared before cooking, there may be a considerable 
loss of nutritive material, especially of mineral matter. By 
cooking in the skin, this loss is largely prevented. To be 
easily digestible, a potato must be mealy so as to be readily 
acted on by digestive juices. This is best accomplished by 
baking in an oven at 380 to 400 F. When a patient begins 
to take solids the vegetable usually prescribed first is a baked 
potato. 

Beets, carrots, parsnips, salsify, turnips and onions are 



VEGETABLES 231 

the most common of the class of succulent roots. The per- 
centage of cellulose is greater than in the starchy class of 
vegetables. 

The characteristic flavors and odors are due to the pres- 
ence of volatile organic compounds. 

Radishes contain a large amount of cellulose and should 
not be eaten by invalids. They are used chiefly as a relish. 

Green Vegetables. — Almost all of this class of vegetables 
have a fuel value of less than 200 calories per pound ; they 
are useful chiefly for their mineral salts and vitamine con- 
tents and for the roughage, variety and flavor they give to 
the diet. 

Asparagus is easily digested, even by invalids. It has a 
diuretic action and imparts a' characteristic odor to the urine 
for some hours. Because of its tendency to form uric acid it 
must be omitted from the diet of persons suffering from 
rheumatism, gout or arthritis. 

Cabbage contains considerable sulphur and therefore fre- 
quently causes flatulence, especially if overcooked. 

Cauliflower belongs to the cabbage family, but is more 
easily digested. 

Celery is more easily digested cooked than raw. 

Spinach is especially valuable for its large amount of iron 
and vitamines. 

General Rides for Cooking Vegetables. — Wash thor- 
oughly ; pare, peel, or scrape, according to the kind. Let them 
stand in cold water until ready to cook, to keep them crisp, 
to freshen them when wilted, or to prevent them from turn- 
ing dark. 

Cook in enough freshly boiling salted water to cover and 
keep the water boiling slowly as tender vegetables are easily 
broken. Allow one teaspoon of salt to one quart of water. 
Salt may be added when vegetables are put in, except in the 
case of delicate green vegetables, as peas, spinach, etc., when 
it should not be added until nearly done. To preserve the 
color, cook green vegetables uncovered. 

Vegetables should be cooked only until tender, drained im- 



232 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

mediately and served promptly. Overcooking injures their 
flavor and makes them tough. Time for cooking vegetables 
varies with the size, age and freshness. 

Time-Table for Cooking Vegetables in Water 



Potatoes 25-30m. 


Cabbage 


45-60m. 


String Beans 1-3 hrs. 


Carrots 35-45m. 


Cauliflower 


20-30m. 


Lima Beans 1 hr. 


Turnips 45m. 


Asparagus 


20-30m. 


or more 


Beet's (young) 45m. 


Spinach 


30-45m. 


Green corn 12-20m. 


Beets (old) 3-4 hrs. 


Celery 


20-30m. 


Rice 20-45m. 


Tomatoes 1-3 hrs. 


Parsnips 


30-45m. 


Macaroni 45-60m. 


Onions 45-60m. 


Green Peas 


30-45m. 





For the Diabetic. Selection of vegetables should be made 
from the 5 per cent, group (p. 384) until otherwise ordered 
by the physician. These should be boiled in three separate 
waters to reduce carbohydrate content. In the beginning, 
after starvation, salt only is added but when diet permits 
cream or butter also is added. 

Five per cent., thrice cooked (boiled) vegetables are con- 
sidered, by some authorities, to be practically carbohydrate 
free. Others say that vegetables thrice cooked lose one-half 
to two-thirds of their carbohydrate content. Proteins and 
fats remain approximately the same. 

Thrice-Cooked Vegetables} — The vegetables are cleaned, 
cut up fine, soaked in cold water and strained. They 
are then tied loosely in a large square of double cheese- 
cloth — large enough so that the corners of the cloth, after 
it has been tied with a string, make conveniently long 
ends and also large enough to allow the vegetables to swell 
without sticking together. They are then transferred to fresh, 
cold water, placed on the fire and allowed to reach 150° F. 
This water is poured off and replaced by water of the same 
temperature, which is brought to the boiling point and then 
again poured off and so on until the requisite number of 
changes have been made. The pots for the vegetables should 
be of sufficient size to hold a large quantity of water and, in 
a hospital, vegetables enough for the daily supply of six pa- 

1 Dr. Elliott P. Joslin, "The Treatment o\ Diabetes Mellitus." 



VEGETABLES 233 

tients. Vegetables thus cooked will keep in cold storage two 
or more days and may be reheated in a steamer. 

If the vegetables are cooked with the cover off the pot 
they will be lighter in color and the flavor not so strong. 

Energy Value of Vegetables 

See Tables, pages 58 to 76. Vegetables are listed under 
their various names. 

BOILED POTATOES 

Select potatoes of uniform size. Wash, pare and put into 
cold water to keep from discoloring. Put them into sauce- 
pan, cover with boiling water, boil and when partly cooked, 
add one tablespoon salt to every six potatoes. Cook until 
soft, about twenty-five to thirty minutes, drain very dry and 
shake the pan, without a cover, gently over the stove till 
the potatoes are mealy, or cover with a folded cloth to absorb 
the moisture. Do not serve in covered dish. 

RICED POTATOES 

Add salt and pepper to boiled potatoes and rub them 
through a heated potato-ricer or squash-strainer into the 
hot dish they are to be served in. Serve immediately, or 
pour a little milk over the top and brown in the oven. 

MASHED POTATOES 

For mashed potatoes the uneven sizes may be used; the 
larger ones should be cut, so all will be of uniform size. 
Prepare as for boiled potatoes. When cooked and dried, add 
salt, butter, pepper and cream in following proportion : 

1 pint potatoes. % teaspoon white pepper. 

^2 teaspoon salt. 2 teaspoons hot cream. 

1 tablespoon butter 

Add the salt, pepper and butter to the potatoes and mash, 
leaving them in saucepan on stove so as to keep them hot. 
Use open-wire masher or fork and beat quickly, so they may 
be light and dry, not "gummy." Put in the cream last, beat 
for a moment and serve immediately. 



234 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

POTATO CAKES 

From cold mashed potatoes make slightly flattened balls. 
Put them in a floured tin, brush each over with milk and 
bake in a hot oven five minutes, or till a delicate brown. 

Note : These cakes may be sauteed in a little beef fat or 
butter if desired. 

SURPRISE BALLS 

Roll the potatoes into balls as above and with a teaspoon 
press a hollow in the top. Chop fine some cold, lean meat, 
season it with salt, pepper and gravy and put one teaspoon 
of the meat into the hollow of the potato ball. Put a little 
milk or melted butter on top and brown in oven or saute. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Select potatoes of uniform size, not very large, wash 
thoroughly, and cut off a small piece at each end in order 
that the steam may escape. Bake in hot oven from forty-five 
to fifty minutes. When baked break open slightly, that 
steam may escape, and serve on folded napkin. 

POTATOES BAKED IN THE HALF SHELL 

Cut off top of baked potato and scoop out inside. Mash 
and season well as for mashed potatoes and add the well- 
beaten white of egg. Fill the skins with the mixture, heap- 
ing it lightly on top, brush over with milk or slightly beaten 
white of egg and brown slightly. Potatoes may be sprinkled 
with grated cheese before putting into oven. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes and put into a buttered 
baking dish. Cover with white sauce, put buttered cracker 
or bread crumbs on top and bake until golden brown. 

Note: A little grated cheese added to the white sauce 
just before pouring over the potatoes adds a pleasant flavor. 



VEGETABLES 235 

CREAMED POTATOES 

1 cup cold sliced or cubed % teaspoon salt. 

potatoes. Yz teaspoon finely chopped pars- 

Y\ cup milk. ley. 

2 teaspoons butter. Speck white pepper. 

Heat the milk, add the potatoes and cook until. they have 
nearly absorbed the milk. Add butter and seasoning, cook 
five minutes longer, add parsley and serve hot. 

POTATO BALLS 

From large potatoes cut balls with a French potato cutter 
and put them into cold water. Cook for twelve minutes 
or more in enough boiling water to cover. Salt at end of 
six minutes. Drain and let them stand a few minutes to 
dry. Serve as a vegetable, with cream sauce, or with parsley 
butter, or use as a garnish for broiled fish. Test potatoes 
with a needle to see when tender. 

Note : Make mashed potatoes from frames left after cut- 
ting out the balls. 

ASPARAGUS 

Boiled Asparagus. — Prepare asparagus by cutting off 
lower part of stalk at the point at which they will snap. 
Wash, remove scales and tie together or cut into one inch 
pieces. Cook in boiling salted water until soft, twenty to 
thirty-five minutes. As the tips are more tender keep them 
out of water the first ten minutes of the cooking. Drain, 
place in hot serving dish, spread with one-half teaspoon 
butter and sprinkle with salt. 

Asparagus on Toast. — Serve boiled asparagus on buttered 
toast, moistened with a little of the liquid the asparagus is 
cooked in. 

Creamed Asparagus, Plain or on Toast. — Pour Cream 
Sauce No. 1 over boiled asparagus and serve hot, or serve 
boiled asparagus on toast and pour Cream Sauce No. 1 over 
it. 



236 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

CARROTS 

1 small carrot (2 ozs.)=20 Calories. 

Boiled Carrots. — Wash thoroughly and scrape off the 
very thin skin. Cut each carrot into slices from one-fourth to 
one-fifth inch thick, cut into cubes and cook in boiling salted 
water until soft, forty-five to sixty minutes. They may be 
served plain with a little melted butter, salt and pepper, or 
they may be mashed and seasoned as above. 

Creamed Carrots. — Pour Creamed Sauce No. I over 
boiled cubed carrots, reheat and serve. 

CAULIFLOWER 

1 serving (4 ozs.)=35 Calories. 

Boiled Cauliflower. — Cut off stalk and remove leaves of 

cauliflower. Soak thirty minutes in cold water to cover, head 

down. Cook, head up, twenty to thirty minutes, or until soft, 

in boiling salted water. Drain and separate flowerets. 

Creamed Cauliflower. — Pour Cream Sauce No. 1 over 
boiled cauliflower, reheat and serve. 

CELERY 

1 serving (2 ozs.)=ll Calories. 
Scrape celery. Cut stalks into one-half inch pieces and 
cook uncovered in boiling salted water twenty to thirty min- 
utes. Serve with Cream Sauce No. 1 poured over it. Sauce 
may be made using part milk and part water in which celery 
was cooked. 

SPINACH DANDELIONS BEET GREENS 

1 serving (4 ozs.)=27 Calories. 
Remove roots, pick over carefully, discarding wilted 
leaves, and wash thoroughly in many waters until free from 
sand; cook in boiling salted water, allowing one-fourth as 
much water as greens. Cook twenty-five to thirty minutes. 
Drain and chop if desired, reheat, season with butter and 
salt; garnish with slices of hard-cooked tgg. Serve with 
vinegar. 



VEGETABLES 237 

ONIONS 
1 serving ( 4 ozs.)— 56 Calories. 

Boiled Onions. — Put onions into pan of cold water and 
peel under water. Put them into boiling water with one tea- 
spoon salt and one-fourth teaspoon soda to one quart water. 
After cooking five minutes pour off the water and add fresh 
boiling salted water and after ten minutes change the water 
again. Boil until tender, forty-five to sixty minutes. Drain 
off the water and add a little milk, cook a few moments and 
add butter, salt and pepper. 

Creamed Onions. — Pour Cream Sauce No. I. over boiled 
onions, reheat and serve. 

Scalloped Onions. — Place onions in a baking dish and add 
Cream Sauce No. 1. Cover top with buttered cracker or 
bread crumbs and bake until crumbs are a golden brown. 

PEAS (GREEN OR, CANNED) 
1 serving (4 ozs.)=114 Calories. 

Green Peas. — Remove peas from pods, cover with cold 
water and let stand one-half hour. Skim off small peas that 
come to the top and drain remaining peas. Cook until soft, 
thirty to forty-five minutes, in a small quantity of water. 
There should be little or no water to drain from peas when 
they are cooked. A small quantity of sugar may be added 
if the natural sweetness of the peas has been lost. Season 
with butter and salt. 

Canned Peas should be drained and thoroughly rinsed. 
Cover with boiling water, boil two minutes and drain again, 
then add a small quantity of boiling water and cook from 
five to ten minutes. Season with butter, salt and pepper. 

Creamed Peas No. 1. — To one-third cup of cooked peas 
add one teaspoon of flour mixed with one-eighth teaspoon of 
sugar. Cook slightly and add one tablespoon of cream and 
salt and pepper to taste. Equal to 75 calories. 

Creamed Peas No. 11. — Pour Cream Sauce No. 1 over 
drained cooked peas, reheat and serve. 



238 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

STRING BEANS 
1 serving (4 ozs.) 4 4 Calories. 
Remove strings from beans and cut or snap into one inch 
pieces. Wash and cook in boiling water until tender (one 
to three hours). Drain and season with butter and salt. 
Cook beans in as little water as possible. Select fresh beans 
that will snap easily. 

STEWED TOMATOES 

1 medium tomato = 33 Calories 

1 cup canned tomato =51 Calories 

Canned or fresh tomatoes may be used. To prepare fresh 
tomatoes wash, pour boiling water over them and then peel 
and cut into pieces, put in saucepan and cook slowly twenty 
minutes, stirring occasionally. Add a few bread or cracker 
crumbs and season with butter, salt and pepper. Bread and 
cracker crumbs may be omitted. A little sugar may be added 
if tomatoes are very acid. 

BAKED TOMATOES 
1 medium tomato (5 oz.) = 33 Calories. 
Wash, dry and remove a thin slice from stem end of to- 
mato. Remove seeds and pulp and drain off most of the 
liquid ; to the pulp add an equal quantity of cracker crumbs, 
season with salt and pepper and a little chopped onion, or a 
few drops of onion juice. Refill tomatoes with mixture and 
place in a buttered tin ; sprinkle with buttered cracker 
crumbs, bake twenty to thirty minutes in a hot oven. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 large ripe tomato. Bread crumbs. 

Salt, pepper. 2 teaspoons butter. 

Place a layer of bread crumbs in a well-buttered in- 
dividual baking dish ; place on top of this one half of the to- 
mato, from which the skin has been removed and then cut 



VEGETABLE SAUCES 239 

into small pieces ; season well with salt, pepper and bits of 
butter. Add another layer of crumbs, then the remaining 
tomato and seasoning, lastly crumbs. Place bits of butter on 
top, put into slow oven and bake twenty to thirty minutes. 

Vegetable Sauces 

BASIC RECIPE FOR VEGETABLE SAUCES 

1 cup liquid. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon fat. Y\ teaspoon salt. 

The two methods of blending are given in the two follow- 
ing recipes, Cream Sauce Xo. 1 and Cream Sauce Xo. II. 

The shape of the dish in which the sauce is made influ- 
ences the thickness of the sauce. If it is made in a shallow 
pan, or in small quantity, evaporation will be greater and thus 
slightly more liquid or slightly less flour will be necessary. 

CREAM OR WHITE SAUCE XO. I, I49 CALORIES 1 

Use to pour over any vegetable. 

(Individual Rule.) 

Y2 cup milk or thin cream. M.6 teaspoon salt. 

V2 tablespoon butter. Speck white pepper. 

Yz tablespoon flour. 

Scald the milk. Melt the butter in a saucepan, remove 
from stove, add the flour, then the scalding milk gradually, 
put over heat and cook, stirring constantly, until smooth 
and there is no taste of raw starch. 

This sauce may be used in many ways — with creamed oys- 
ters, sweetbreads, any cream dish or any scalloped dish. If 
a thick sauce is desired, use one tablespoon of flour in place 
of one-half. 

CREAM SAUCE XO. II, 26/ CALORIES 2 

(Individual Rule.) 

H cup milk or thin cream. 1 teaspoon butter. 

V2 tablespoon flour. % teaspoon salt. 

1 Calculated with milk. 

2 Calculated with cream. 




240 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Scald the cream. Wet the flour with a little cold milk to 
make a smooth mixture, and add to the hot cream. Cook 
well. Just before serving add the butter and salt, and pep- 
per if desired. 

If a thick sauce is desired, use one tablespoon of flour in 
place of one-half. 

DIABETIC CREAM SAUCE, 560 CALORIES 

For Soup or Vegetables — Calories per oz., 0.65. 

1 cup thin cream. 2 egg yolks. 

Y$ cup water. 

Mix together. Cook in a double boiler until of a creamy 
consistancy, stirring constantly. When the mixture coats 
a silver spoon, remove from fire. 

PARSLEY BUTTER 

1 tablespoon butter. Juice V2. lemon. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 

Cream the butter, add lemon juice and chopped parsley. 
Omit lemon juice if desired. 

Salads and Salad Dressings 

The salad plants, such as lettuce, celery, watercress, en- 
dives, etc., contribute very little energy and protein to the 
diet but are especially rich in mineral matter^ which is all 
preserved when they are served uncooked in the form of 
salad. They are also useful for their vitamine content and 
their laxative qualities. . 

Salads should not be eaten by dyspeptics or those having 
delicate bowels. 

Salads should be prepared daintily, arranged attractively 
and always served cold. Lettuce and other salad plants 
should be fresh, crisp and dry. Wash thoroughly, on account 
of danger of germs from dust, soil, etc., chill in very cold 
water until crisp and dry by placing on a clean towel so that 
the water will drain from the leaves ; or fold lightly in a 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 241 

towel and place on ice until serving time. Parsley is re- 
vived quickly by sprinkling with cold water and putting it 
into an air-tight fruit jar and keeping it in a cold place. 
Treated in this way it will keep fresh a long time. 

Dressing should not be added to green vegetables until 
just before serving, as it tends to wilt them. 

Meat to be used in salads should be free from skin and 
gristle and should be cut into small cubes, mixed with 
French dressing and allowed to stand some time before com- 
bining with the vegetables. 

A dainty salad served with a crisp cracker or cheese wafer 
forms an acceptable luncheon for the convalescent. It may 
also be served with dinner. 

For the Diabetic. — Selection of vegetables for salads 
should be made from the 5 per cent, group (p. 384) until 
otherwise ordered by the physician. These should be boiled 
in three separate waters 1 to reduce carbohydrate contents. In 
the beginning, after starvation, only salt is used, later a little 
lemon juice with a little salt and pepper is added. Grated 
onion, a small quantity of celery seed, or a tiny bit of 
chopped green pepper may be added for additional seasoning. 

FRENCH DRESSING, 20O CALORIES 
(Individual Rule, Yz of Recipe.) 

1 tablespoon vinegar. y 3 teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons Micelle olive oil. % teaspoon pepper. 

Mix all ingredients thoroughly and pour over salad just 
before serving. 

BOILED DRESSING, 463 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule, V 2 of Recipe.) 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 egg. 

V2 teaspoon mustard. y 2 cup milk. 

Speck cayenne. 2 tablespoons butter. 

2 tablespoons sugar. J4 cup vinegar. 

Mix all dry ingredients. Beat egg in double boiler, add 
dry ingredients, butter and milk ; cook over hot water, stir- 

x For cooking directions note thrice-cooked vegetables, page 232 



242 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

ring constantly until thick like custard ; add vinegar ; cool 
and serve. One-half tablespoon flour added to the dry in- 
gredients will make a slightly thicker and very smooth 
dressing. 

Note : If it curdles beat over cold water until smooth. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING, 2963 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule, % of Recipe.) 

1 teaspoon mustard. Yolks 2 eggs. 

2 teaspoons powdered sugar. \ l A cups Nicelle olive oil. 

1 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 
Speck cayenne. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

Mix dry ingredients, add to yolks and mix thoroughly. 
Add a few drops of oil at a time until one-half cup is used, 
beating with egg-beater or wooden spoon. Then add al- 
ternately a few drops of vinegar and lemon juice and the 
remainder of the oil, using care not to lose the stiff con- 
sistency. It should be a thick dressing and not added to 
food until just before serving. 

Note : Have all ingredients and utensils thoroughly chilled 
and place mixing bowl in a pan of crushed ice while blending. 

If dressing curdles, take another egg yolk and add the 
curdled mixture to it slowly, beating constantly. 

Another method of blending is to mix dry ingredients, add 
to yolks and mix thoroughly. Add the vinegar and lemon 
juice slowly, beating well with Dover egg beater. Add the 
oil slowly. 

CREAM DRESSING, 1 538 CALORIES 
(For Fruit Salads.) 

J / 2 cup butter. 1 teaspoon mustard. 

2 tablespoons flour. 1 tablespoon cider vinegar. 
1 cup scalded milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 yolks of eggs. j4 cup vinegar. 
3 whites of eggs. % cup sugar. 

(a) Melt butter in a saucepan, add flour and gradually 
pour on the scalding milk; cook thoroughly, stirring con- 
stantly, (b) Beat yolks in top of double boiler, add the 
mustard, dissolved in one tablespoon of vinegar, salt and 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 243 

vinegar. Pour (a) gradually on the egg mixture and cook 
over hot water until it thickens like soft custard, remove 
from fire, add the sugar and fold in the stiffly-beaten white 
of eggs. Pour into glass fruit jar, cool and cover and keep 
on ice. This dressing will keep a long time and is especially 
delicious to serve with fruit salads. 

CHICKEN SALAD, 855 CALORIES 
(Six Servings.) 

2 cups of chicken. % teaspoon pepper. 

1 cup cut celery. 1 tablespoon vinegar. 

2 tablespoons olive oil. 2 tablespoons mayonnaise. 
1 saltspoon salt. 

Mayonnaise, olives, celery leaves or white lettuce for gar- 
nishing. 

Cut the cold chicken into small dice ; cut the cleaned celery 
into small uniform pieces. Mix these together and pour over 
the oil. Mix well, then sprinkle with salt and pepper to 
taste ; add the vinegar, blend and put in colander to drain ; 
set in a cold place for two or three hours. Just before serv- 
ing add the mayonnaise, put on a bed of lettuce and garnish. 

Note : Do not mince chicken. 

FRUIT SALADS 

Any combination of fruit desired may be used served with 
"Cream Dressing." An attractive combination is a banana 
peeled and cut in half crosswise. Cut one-half lengthwise, 
arrange on lettuce leaf, add a little cream dressing .and gar- 
nish with malaga grapes, cut in half and seeded, and small 
pieces of English walnuts. 

MARGUERITE SALAD 

One hard-cooked egg cut crosswise. Remove yolk. Cut 
white in slices, petal fashion, arrange on lettuce leaf like a 
marguerite and fill the center with the yolk put through the 
potato-ricer or strainer. Garnish with parsley and serve 
with French, boiled or mayonnaise dressing. 



244 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

MIXED SALAD 

Equal proportions of green peas, cooked and drained, 
celery cut in thin slices and English walnuts cut into small 
pieces. Season with salt and pepper, add mayonnaise and 
serve on lettuce leaves. Garnish with ripe cherries on the 
stem with blanched hazel nuts put in place of stones. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD 

Mix equal parts of parboiled sweetbreads cut into one-half 
inch cubes and celery cut into thin slices. Season with salt 
and moisten with mayonnaise dressing. Arrange daintily 
on lettuce leaves. 

ORANGE AND DATE SALAD, 1 373 CALORIES 

Separate one package Dromedary Dates, cover with boil- 
ing water and cook for two or three minutes. Drain and 
dry in an oven. Cool, stone and cut in halves lengthwise. 
Halve four large oranges and cut out the sections of pulp. 
Arrange crisp lettuce leaves on a platter, pile the orange in 
the centre and surround with the dates. Serve with French 
dressing. 

WALDORF SALAD 

Mix equal parts of apples, pared and cut into small cubes, 
celery sliced in thin circles and English walnuts cut into 
small pieces. Season with salt and moisten with mayonnaise. 
Serve on lettuce leaf, garnished with a spoonful of whipped 
cream and halves of English walnuts or pecans. 

WATER LILY SALAD 

One hard-cooked egg. Cut in halves crosswise in fence 
fashion ; remove yolk, put through strainer and refill white. 
Serve on shredded lettuce leaves and garnish with parsley. 
Serve with French, boiled or mayonnaise dressing. 

CHEESE WAFERS 

Butter wafer crackers and sprinkle thickly with grated 



FRUITS 245 

cheese. Put in oven and bake till cheese is melted and crack- 
ers are a delicate brown. Arrange on small plate with doily. 
Serve with salad. 

Fruits 1 

Fruits are the seed-bearing portions of plants. Some 
products of this class, such as melons and tomatoes are 
sometimes called fruits and sometimes vegetables, while a 
few vegetable products which are not fruits in the strict 
sense, are included in this class of food products because 
they have a similar place in the diet. 

Composition. — Fresh fruits contain a high percentage of 
water, varying from about 75 per cent, to over 95 per certt. 
It has been suggested that those containing 80 per cent, or 
more of water be classed as flavor fruits and those with less 
than 80 per cent, as food fruits. Bananas, grapes and fresh 
figs are the commonest examples of the latter class. When 
the water is removed by evaporation, as in drying, the per- 
centage of moisture falls to 20 per cent, or less and the 
proportion of nutrients is correspondingly raised, so that 
dried fruits would fall into the class of food fruits. Pre- 
served fruits have their nutritive value raised by the addition 
of sugar and usually by some loss of water in preparation. 

As a class fruits contain little or no fat. The olive is a 
remarkable exception. The proportion of proteins is so 
low as to be practically negligible. 

Carbohydrates are the chief nutrient present. In ripe 
fruits these are almost wholly in the form of sugars and 
other soluble carbohydrates, commonly called pectin bodies. 
Starch is often found in unripe fruits — notably in the 
ordinary banana. The principal sugars are sucrose or cane 
sugar, dextrose or grape sugar, and levulose or fruit sugar. 
A mixture of the last two is common and is called invert 
sugar. 

Fruits contain characteristic organic acids, such as malic 

1 For further information, note, "Uses of Fruit as Food," Farmer's Bulle- 
tin No. 293, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



246 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

in apples, citric in lemons, etc. Fruits as a class are import- 
ant sources of mineral matter. Some of them as dried fruits, 
and of these notably prunes, dates, raisins and figs, are fairly 
rich in iron as well as calcium and phosphorus. 

The flavor is due partly to the sugars and acids and partly 
to characteristic "ethereal" substances present in small quan- 
tities. Chemists have isolated the ethers and oils which give 
the peculiar flavor to bananas, strawberries and other fruits. 

Digestibility. — The digestibility of fruits varies with the 
kind of fruit eaten and its mode of preparation; stewed 
fruits are in general more easily digested than raw fruits. 
Personal idiosyncrasy also has much to do with digestibility 
in the case of this class of food materials. Oranges, lemons, 
grapes and peaches are very generally digested with ease. 
Oranges are much used in invalid dietaries, their juice being 
very effective in allaying thirst. 

Nutritive Value. — Fresh fruits are important constituents 
of the diet of every individual, sick or well, because they 
supply mineral matter, vitamines, especially the antiscor- 
butic vitamine (see page 22), because of their laxative 
effect due to the cellulose and organic acids which they 
contain, and because when absorbed in the body they 
yield an alkaline residue, which neutralizes the acid residue 
formed when meat, eggs and other protein-rich foods are 
eaten. This "maintenance of neutrality" is one of the 
processes included in the regulatory function of food (see 
page 3). They are useful also for their refreshing, appetiz- 
ing qualities. 

Dried fruits are concentrated sources of energy and val- 
uable for the mineral salts, especially iron, which they 
supply. 

Precautions in the Use of Fruit. — Over-ripe or unripe 
fruit should not be eaten raw ; besides inferior flavor there 
is danger of digestive disturbance. 

Before serving, all fruit should be thoroughly washed to 
avoid germs. Digestive disturbances are more often caused 
by these germs than by the fruit itself. There is danger 



FRUITS 247 

also of acquiring harmful intestinal parasites from raw 
fruits. In all doubtful cases, the food should be cooked. 

STEWED PRUNES 
3 prunes = 72 Calories. 

Wash and look over the prunes, cover with clear cold 
water and allow to stand on the back of range over night. 
In the morning place the saucepan where they will cook 
slowly for four hours. 

Note: No sugar is needed as prunes are 18 per cent, sugar 
and by this manner of cooking are made very sweet. This 
simmering process renders them rich and juicy, while boiling 
toughens the skin. A little lemon juice is a pleasant addi- 
tion. 

Prunes are a valuable nutrient and their use as a laxative 
is scarcely second to figs. To increase the laxative effect add 
one ounce of senna leaves to one pound of fruit, all prunes 
or part figs. The senna should be added the last hour of 
cooking. 

PRUNE PULP 1 (FOR INFANTS) 

Cook prunes as above described, with no seasoning. 
Remove all skins by pressing through a fine wire sieve. 
From one to four tablespoonfuls may be given at one time. 
Apricots, apples or peaches may be prepared in this way. 

APRICOT AND PRUNE SAUCE, I9I CALORIES 2 

J4 cup prunes. 1 cup cold water. 

% cup dried apricots. Sugar to taste. 

Wash fruit carefully ; soak over night and cook slowly for 
two hours. If cooked properly the fruit will need very little 
sugar, as the sugar in the fruit is developed by this method 
of cooking. 

J Dr. L. Emmett Holt, "The Care and Feeding of Children," D. Appleton 
and Company, New York City. 
2 Without sugar. 



248 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

BAKED APPLES 

Wipe and core apples. Put into a shallow dish with one 
tablespoon water to each apple. More may be added during 
cooking if necessary. Put into the center of each apple two 
teaspoons sugar, bake in a hot oven twenty or thirty min- 
utes, or until soft; baste with the syrup every ten minutes. 
A little nutmeg may be added to the sugar, and a few drops 
of lemon juice to each apple. Care must be taken that apples 
do not break and lose their shape, i apple = 70 calories. 

STEWED APPLE SAUCE, 8/ CALORIES 

Wash, pare, core and slice one apple ; put into saucepan 
and add one teaspoon sugar and enough boiling water to 
partly cover. Cover saucepan and cook slowly, without 
stirring, until transparent and tender. Appetizing to serve 
with any breakfast food. Pears and peaches may be cooked 
in the same way. 

APPLES CUBAN STYLE 

Pare and core sound, tart apples. Steam until almost ten- 
der ; remove to a buttered pan ; fill cavities with cocoanut, 
stick apples full of blanched almonds, baste with syrup made 
of sugar, water and lemon juice. Finish cooking in a hot 
oven, basting often. When serving, fill the cavities with 
jelly or the jellied juice. 

BAKED BANANA 
1 medium banana=64 Calories. 
When eaten raw this fruit is often indigestible, but baked 
it acts as a stimulant to the nerves, being at once received and 
rapidly assimilated by the stomach. Cut bananas in halves, 
put into shallow pan, sprinkle with sugar and a little lemon 
juice and bake until soft. 

Xote : The banana contains starch and should be thor- 
oughly ripened before eating. 



FRUITS 249 

CRANBERRY SAUCE OR JELLY 

1 cup cranberries. J / 2 cup water. 

Yz cup sugar. 

Pick over and wash cranberries. Put into saucepan and 
add sugar and water, bring to the boiling point and boil fif- 
teen minutes. Strain and cool. 

For jelly use one-half cup sugar and one-quarter cup 
water and after straining put into molds. 

BAKED LEMON OR ORANGE 

Bake a lemon or a sour orange in a moderate oven for 
twenty minutes. When done, open at one end and take out 
the inside. Sweeten with sugar or molasses. This is excel- 
lent for hoarseness and pressure on the lungs. 

ORANGE SUNFLOWER 

Wash the orange. Put a three-tined fork into the stem 
end. Cut off each end down to pulp, leaving the stem end 
on fork, then pare off rind to pulp. Cut out each section and 
place on small plate in sunflower fashion using the pieces of 
pulp for petals ; fill centre with granulated sugar. Serve cold. 

Note : To cut nicely have a large, firm, cold orange and 
a sharp knife. 

ORANGE NO. II 

1 medium orange=73 Calories. 

Select a large, firm orange ; wash, cut and peel skin down 

in eight parts, leaving them connected to stem end of orange 

to form the petals, folding them under the pulp. Separate 

pulp in sections and put ice between petals before serving. 

DATE SAUCE 

Prepare apples as for stewing and partially cook. Add 
equal quantity of stoned Dromedary Dates and sugar to 
taste. Cook until dates are tender. Serve either hot or cold. 



250 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

DATES FOR YOUNG CHILDREN 

Wash the dates and lay in water for fifteen minutes, then 
remove and dry ; take off the outer skin and remove the 
stone ; put through meat chopper ; add two teaspoons of 
orange juice to each cup of dates. This is good on toast or 
crackers and is very nourishing. It can be prepared and kept 
on hand summer and winter. 

DATE BON B0NS 

1 date =20-25 Calories. 

1 walnut meat = 6- 8 Calories. 

Put salted almonds or fourths of English walnuts into the 
inside of dates that have been cut open and stones removed. 
Roll in powdered or granulated sugar and serve. 

DATE AND FIG BON BONS 

1 pound raisins. 1 pound dates. 

1 pound figs. Nuts if desired. 

Stone fruit and put all through a meat chopper. Serve in 
small fancy covered dish or make into balls and roll in 
powdered sugar. These are delicious and beneficial for chil- 
dren and adults to partake of daily. 

To increase the laxative effect add one ounce of senna 
leaves and give in doses of one to two teaspoonfuls night and 
morning. 

STEWED FIGS, 938 CALORIES 

y 2 pound figs. 1 cup cold water. 

Y^ cup white sugar. Juice x / 2 lemon. 

Wash figs. Dissolve sugar in the water ; add figs and bring 
slowly to boiling point. Stew two and one-half hours ; when 
tender, add lemon juice. 

Note : Cut figs into small pieces ; cook very slowly so as 
not to add more water. 

STEAMED RHUBARB, 234 CALORIES 1 
1 cup rhubarb (4 oz.). X A to H cup sugar. 

1 Calculated with J4 cup sugar; with V 2 cup sugar = 444 calories. 



NUTS 251 

Wash the rhubarb and cut it into inch pieces without re- 
moving the skin, as this gives a pretty pink color to the juice. 
Put it into an agate double boiler without water and steam 
one-half hour, or until soft. Do not stir, as it breaks the 
pieces. Sweeten to taste at once on taking from fire. If 
rhubarb cooks a minute too long — which means after it has 
gone to pieces — it will lose its delicious flavor. 

Nuts 1 

Nuts enter but little into the invalid's dietary, but as at- 
tention is being paid to means of rendering them more di- 
gestible, a word concerning them is not out of place. 

Composition. — Because of their high content of protein 
and fat, nuts are commonly used as substitutes for meat and 
deservedly so. They are not as easily digested as meat be- 
cause of the large amount of cellulose and fat present, but 
nut pastes and butters, in which the cellulose has been re- 
moved, can be used with safety. 

Cooking of Nuts. — Xuts are more often eaten raw than 
cooked. The peanut, however, is not considered palatable 
when raw, and the chestnut is very indigestible unless the 
starch is cooked, when it becomes easily digestible. Almonds 
and walnuts are widely used in confectionery. 

Nuts may be used as staple articles of diet, in salad, soups, 
desserts, etc. 

To insure the best utilization of nuts they must be thor- 
oughly prepared for digestion by grinding or mastication. 
Nut butters offer much less resistance to digestion than raw 
nuts hastily eaten. On account of the high fat content, 
these products must be fresh, or the fat is likely to decom- 
pose and become rancid and irritating. 

Nut flours and meals are made into bread or porridge. 
Almond meal, which contains no starch and very little sugar, 
is often utilized as a bread for diabetics. The chestnut can- 
not be so used on account of its high content of starch. The 

2 For further information, note, "Xuts and Their Uses as Food," Farmer's 
Bulletin No. 332, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



252 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

peanut contains about n per cent, of carbohydrates and 
hence is undesirable for this purpose. 

Digestibility. — Nuts have been considered very indigestible. 
This is due largely to improper mastication or other prepara- 
tion for digestion and to the fact that they are a very concen- 
trated food, and often eaten when not needed. While nut 
proteins, as nuts are ordinarily eaten, are not so easily nor 
completely digested as meat proteins there are experiments 
showing that on the whole they are as thoroughly digested 
as an ordinary mixed diet. No experiments have been re- 
ported on the ease or rapidity of nut digestion. 

Nutritive Value. — Nuts are a concentrated food. This is 
clearly shown by the following figures : 

1 lb. of Almonds, E. P. 1 yield 2936 Calories. 

1 lb. of Brazil nuts, E. P yield 3162 Calories. 

1 lb. of Filberts, E. P yield 3185 Calories. 

1 lb. of Hickory nuts, E. P yield 3238 Calories. 

1 lb. of Peanuts, E. P yield 2487 Calories. 

1 lb. of Walnuts, E. P yield 3199 Calories. 

The high fuel value is due to the absence of water and the 
large amount of fat present. Nuts can be most advan- 
tageously used along with bulky foods, such as fruits and 
vegetables, and those lacking in fat, such as bread. In a 
vegetarian diet they become a valuable source of protein. 

Fungi and Algae 

These substances have little nutritive value. They may be 
considered as food adjuncts, rather than as foods proper. 

Of fungi, mushrooms are the most commonly eaten. They 
are prized for their delicate flavor. Chemical analysis shows 
a high percentage of nitrogen, but although reported as pro- 
tein it is largely in an indigestible form. 

Algae and lichens are much used as food in some parts of 
the world and high claims are sometimes made for their 
nutritive value, but digestive experiments show that, al- 
though they have a carbohydrate content similar to other 

1 Edible portion. 



FUNGI AND ALGM 253 

succulent vegetable foods, these carbohydrates are not at- 
tacked by the ordinary digestive enzymes of the alimentary 
tract. 

The most important algae, from the dietetic standpoint, is 
Irish moss. It is commonly used in making jellies or sooth- 
ing beverages for invalids, but it has no nutritive value 
whatsoever. 

The lichen most used as food is Iceland moss. It has 
frequently been recommended as a food for diabetics, but it 
is practically indigestible. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 

1. Compare the digestibility of animal and vegetable foods. 

2. Discuss the nutritive value of cereals, comparing whole grain and 
finely milled cereals. 

3. State the principles involved in the cooking of cereals. 

4. Name a class of vegetable foods which is rich in protein. Give 
examples of this class. 

5. Compare vegetable and animal proteins as to digestibility and 
nutritive value. 

6. Discuss the nutritive value of breads. Xame two breads com- 
monly prescribed for diabetics. Why does toasting bread make 
it more digestible? 

7. What are thrice cooked vegetables? 

8. Discuss the digestibility and nutritive value of legumes, roots 
and tubers and green vegetables. Give one reason why peas and 
beans should not be given in cases of digestive disturbances. 

9. What is the most easily digested form of potatoes? 

10. Compare the composition of vegetables, cereals and fruits. 

11. Compare the nutritive value of fresh and dried fruits. 

12. What' advantage is there in cooking fruits ? 

13. Why is the inclusion of fruits and vegetables in the diet im- 
portant ? 

14. What is an ideal diet? 



CHAPTER X 

NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Hot and Cold Desserts — Frozen Desserts 

SOFT CUSTARDS, BAKED CUSTARDS, WHIPS AND SOUFFLES, 
JUNKET, CORNSTARCH PUDDINGS OR BLANC MANGE, RICE, 
TAPIOCA, CRACKER AND BREAD PUDDINGS, SAUCES, GELATIN 
DISHES. 

Properly prepared, the dessert may constitute a very large 
part of the nourishment represented in a meal. Dishes con- 
taining eggs, milk, cream, starches, etc., in large proportion 
are necessarily of high nutritive value and become a useful 
means of administering these foods to patients who* do not 
care for the flavor of plain milk, raw eggs, cereals, etc., or 
who are likely to become tired of them. For invalids, com- 
binations of foods should always be simple, because the more 
complex the mixture of protein, fat and carbohydrate, the 
longer and more complicated is the process of digestion. 
Hence junket, which is simply coagulated milk flavored, is 
one of the most digestible of desserts. As a rule, sugar is 
less acceptable in sickness than in health, excess being apt to 
cause loss of appetite or nausea. 

Dainty service is most important. Baked custards and 
junkets are usually best served in the original individual 
molds to avoid danger of breaking or of becoming watery. 
Sauces should never be poured over puddings till the mo- 
ment of serving. Care must be taken to see that cold 
desserts are thoroughly chilled ; a lukewarm custard is fre- 
quently nauseating and always unappetizing. 

For the Diabetic- In sweetening desserts, sugar must be 
replaced by sweetina or saccharin. It is many times sweeter 

254 



SOFT CUSTARDS 255 

than sugar but has no food value. Note, Sugar Substitutes, 
page 213. 

Soft Custards 

SOFT CUSTARD NO. I, K)J CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yolk 1 egg. Speck salt. 

1 tablespoon sugar. y 2 cup milk. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Beat yolk, add salt and sugar 
and gradually pour on the scalded milk. Pour back into 
top of double boiler and stir constantly until it looks creamy 
or coats the spoon and the foam has disappeared ; then re- 
move immediately from hot water. Cool and add flavoring 
desired ; vanilla, orange or lemon extract. 

Note: If custard curdles, place saucepan over cold water 
and beat until smooth. 

This custard is usually used for pudding sauces. 

SOFT CUSTARD NO. II, 42 1 CALORIES 
(Two Servings.) 

1 cup milk. % teaspoon salt. 

2 eggs. 54 teaspoon vanilla or grating 
2 tablespoons sugar. of nutmeg. 

Reserve one egg white for meringue. Blend according to 
Soft Custard No. i. This custard is usually used as a 
foundation for puddings. 

SOFT CUSTARD WITH LACTOSE, 470 CALORIES 1 

8 ounces milk (1 cup). Speck of salt. 

1 egg. 2 to 3 drops of vanilla or cara- 

2 ounces of milk sugar (about mel made of 3 tablespoons 

4 tablespoons). of granulated sugar. 

Blend according to Soft Custard No. i. To make caramel, 
put the sugar in a pan directly over heat and burn until a 
very dark brown. Dissolve in hot water or milk. 

1 Dr. W. Coleman, American Journal of Medical Sciences, January, 1912. 



256 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

MERINGUE, II3 CALORIES 1 

1 egg white. 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Speck salt. Lemon or orange juice. 

Beat the egg until stiff and dry ; add the salt, sugar and 
lemon juice to taste. Beat very little after adding the sugar. 

FLOATING ISLAND 

Chill Soft Custard No. 11 ; pour into serving dish and put 
meringue on top. 

ORANGE CUSTARD 

Peel, slice and remove seeds of oranges, put into serving 
dish. Chill Soft Custard No. 11, pour over fruit and put 
meringue on top. 

BANANA CUSTARD 

Peel bananas and slice very thin with silver knife, put 
into serving dish and flavor with lemon juice. Chill Soft 
Custard No. 1 1, pour over fruit and put meringue on top. 

ALMOND PUDDING 

Line a glass dish with slices of stale cake and put in some 
salted almonds. Pour a little sherry wine on the cake. Chill 
Soft Custard No. 1 1 and pour over it. Put meringue on top, 
with some salted almonds in it. 



Baked Custards 

BAKED OR CUP CUSTARD, 32 1 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 cup milk. W-2. tablespoon sugar. 

1 egg. l A teaspoon salt. 

Flavoring to taste — nutmeg, cinnamon, vanilla or lemon extract. 

Scald the milk ; beat egg, add sugar and salt and gradually 
pour on the scalded milk. Flavor to taste and pour into 

1 Without lemon and orange juice. 



BAKED CUSTARDS 2$7 

custard cups ; place in deep pan and pour boiling water 
around until it almost reaches the top of cups. Bake in 
moderate oven about twenty minutes. If cinnamon is used 
for flavor, put one-half or inch square into the milk when 
scalding. 

Note : To test when done, dip a pointed knife into water 
and plunge into the middle of the custard. If it looks set 
and the knife comes out clear, the custard is done ; if milky, 
it is not cooked enough. If cooked too long the custard will 
curdle. 

BAKED CUSTARD XO. II, 265 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 /2> cup milk. M.2 teaspoon salt. 

1 egg. Nutmeg. 

XYz tablespoon sugar. % teaspoon vanilla. 

Blend according to Baked Custard Xo. i. 

The smaller quantity of milk makes a little firmer custard. 

WHITE CUSTARD, 1 54 CALORIES 

1 egg white. % saltspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon sugar. . y 2 cup rich milk. 

Beat white of egg until very light ; add sugar and salt 
and gradually pour on the milk. Flavor with vanilla, orange 
or lemon extract. Bake in cups set in pan of boiling water 
in a moderate oven about twenty minutes. When firm set 
on ice and serve cold. This may be taken by patient when the 
yolk of egg is prohibited. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD, 258 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 

2 teaspoons Walter Baker's 2 egg yolks, 
chocolate. 2 teaspoons sugar. 

V2 cup milk. Speck salt. 

Grate chocolate and mix with two tablespoons milk ; 
stir over the fire until smooth, add remaining milk, the well- 
beaten egg yolks, sugar and salt. Pour into custard cups set 



258 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

in pan of hot water, nearly to the top. Cook until custard 
is set. Serve hot or cold. 

MALTED MILK CUSTARD, 121 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted l / 2 cup hot water. 

Milk. Salt. 

1 egg yolk. 

Mix the Malted Milk powder with enough of the hot 
water to make a smooth paste, add remainder of water and 
pour it gradually over the well-beaten yolk. Butter custard 
cup, pour in the mixture and let it stand in a pan of boil- 
ing water in a moderate oven until custard is set. 

BAKED CARAMEL CUSTARD, 343 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yz cup milk. 3 tablespoons sugar. 

1 egg. A few drops of vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Scald the milk, Put two tablespoons sugar into a small 
saucepan, place over heat and stir constantly until the sugar 
is melted and a light brown color. Add milk and pour over 
the slightly-beaten egg. Add one tablespoon sugar and flavor- 
ing. Strain into buttered custard cups, place in a pan of hot 
water and bake until firm in a slow oven. 

BAKED CUSTARD WITH LACTOSE, 1 357 CALORIES 

lJ/3 ounces of milk sugar 1 egg. 

(about 2 2 /z tablespoons). Nutmeg or vanilla. 

6 ounces of milk (12 table- Speck of salt. 

spoons). 

Beat the egg slightly. Warm the sugar and milk, stirring 
constantly, add to the egg, strain into a custard cup and 
flavor. Bake in a pan of water in a moderate oven until a 
knife when cut into it will come out clean — 30 minutes to 1 
hour. 

1 Dr. W. Coleman, American Journal of Medical Sciences, January, 1912. 



WHIPS AND SOUFFLES 259 

DIABETIC CUSTARD 1 

4 oz. mold — 135 Calories or 1 oz. mold — 35 Calories. 

2 cups milk. 34 grain saccharin. 

3 eggs. 

Beat the eggs, dissolve the saccharin in the milk, add to 
the egg. Pour the mixture into the mold. Place in a pan 
of lukewarm water and bake in a moderate oven. When a 
silver knife plunged into the center of the custard comes out 
clean, remove from the oven. This will fill four custard cups. 

SPECIAL DIABETIC CUSTARD 1 

4 oz. mold — 335 Calories or 1 oz. mold — 80 Calories. 

2 ounces ( 4 tablespoons) milk. Few grains salt. 

1 egg. Yq grain saccharin. 

2 ounces cream* 

Beat egg, add cream, in which the saccharin has been dis- 
solved, and the salt. Bake according to directions given 
above. 

Whips and Souffles 

Dainty and nutritious ways to serve the uncooked and 
slightly cooked white of eggs. 

FRUIT WHIP 

(Two Servings.) 

Any fruit, fresh, canned or dried, properly prepared, or 

jellies may be used. 

2 to 4 tablespoons fruit pulp. 2 tablespoons powdered sugar 

White 1 egg. or to taste. 

Lemon juice. 

Prepare the fruit pulp by scraping, grating or rubbing 
through a strainer. Beat the white of egg on platter until 
stiff. Add pulp, sugar and lemon juice to taste and beat 
until very stiff. Heap in center of serving dish and pour 
Soft Custard No. 1 around it. 

*"St. Luke's Dietary," St. Luke's Hospital, New York City. 

2 Cream used in these formulas is 40% fat. Milk figured 20 Cal. per ounce. 



260 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Note : The apple is a favorite fruit for these whips. The 
juice of fresh fruits in season used with the raw white of 
egg makes an appetizing as well as a very nutritious lunch 
for the sick. 

STRAWBERRY WHIP, 342 CALORIES 
(Four Servings.) 

1 cup fresh strawberries. *4 cup powdered sugar. 
Whites 2 eggs. 

Wash and hull the strawberries and mash slightly. Beat 
whites of eggs until stiff, add sugar and berries ; beat until 
very stiff, using a broad bowl and a wire egg-beater, beating 
with a long, steady stroke. Pile lightly in a glass dish and 
serve with white or sponge cake. 

GRAPE WHIP, 1 32 1 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 

Y$ cup grape juice. 5 tablespoons sugar. 

White 1 Qgg. 1 cup double cream. 

Beat the white of egg until foamy, add the grape juice 
mixed with the sugar and, lastly, the cream, then beat with 
a whip churn. Take off the froth as it rises and drain on 
a sieve. Pour the unwhipped mixture into small, high glasses 
and pile the whip on top. Serve cold. 

OMELET SOUFFLE, 249 CALORIES 1 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yolk 1 egg. Speck salt. 

3 tablespoons powdered sugar. Whites 2 eggs. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. Strawberry or fruit jam. 

To the well-beaten yolk add the sugar, salt, lemon juice 
and rind. Beat the whites to the stiffest possible froth, then 
cut and fold into the yolk. Have ready a small baking dish, 
buttered and spread with a layer of the fruit ; pour the omelet 
over it and bake in a moderate oven fifteen or twenty min- 
utes. Test as for baked custard. Serve at once. 

Note : Do not use lemon rind if it will interfere medicinally. 

1 Without jam. 



JUNKET 261 

CUSTARD SOUFFLE, 294 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% tablespoon butter. Yolk 1 egg. 

1*4 tablespoons flour. 154 tablespoons sugar. 

J4 cup scalded milk. White 1 egg. 

Melt butter, add flour and gradually the scalded milk. 
Cook thoroughly, pour over the well-beaten yolk, add sugar 
and cool. Fold the well-beaten white into the mixture. Turn 
into buttered custard cups and bake about fifteen minutes, 
until firm — determined by pressing with the finger. Take 
from oven and serve at once, or it will fall. Serve with 
Foamy Sauce. 

LEMON SOUFFLE, 20,1 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yolk 1 egg. % cup sugar. 

Juice % lemon. White 1 egg. 

Beat yolk thoroughly, add sugar slowly, beating con- 
stantly; add lemon juice. Fold in the white, beaten until 
dry. Pour into buttered custard cups, set in pan of hot 
water and bake twenty minutes or until firm, testing by press- 
ing with finger. Serve plain or with Foamy Sauce. 

PEACH MERINGUE 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup yellow peaches. Bread crumbs. 

Sugar to taste. White 1 egg. 

Yolk 1 egg. 1 tablespoon powdered sugar. 

Stew peaches in a very little water, sweeten to taste and 
stir in the well-beaten yolk. Butter a pudding dish and 
cover bottom with fine bread crumbs, put in the peaches and 
bake fifteen minutes. Cover with meringue made of white 
of Ggg and the powdered sugar ; brown slightly in the oven. 
Serve cold. 

Junket 

Junket is a healthful and dainty dessert made simply of 
pure milk, containing enough of the active principle of ren- 



262 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

net found in the Junket Tablet to coagulate the milk. It is 
nutritious and has the added advantage of being easily 
digested. 

Milk or cream that has been boiled, sterilized, condensed 
or evaporated cannot be used in making junket, and care 
must be taken not to heat the milk more than lukewarm, as 
hot milk prevents the action of the tablet. 

For diabetic patients saccharin may be used as a sub- 
stitute for sugar in these recipes. 

PLAIN JUNKET, 280 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup milk. % Junket Tablet or 1 teaspoon 

2 tablespoons sugar. essence of pepsin or liquid 
y 2 teaspoon brandy or wine. rennet. 

1 teaspoon cold water. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm, add sugar and flavoring; 
when sugar is dissolved add the tablet dissolved in the cold 
water. Pour mixture immediately into sherbet cups or cham- 
pagne glasses, partly fill. Stand in warm room undisturbed 
until firm like jelly, then put on ice to cool. Serve with 
whipped cream heaped on top, with one-half teaspoon bright 
jelly for garnish. 

Note : For variety, whole strawberries or raspberries may 
be served with junket, or chopped English walnuts with the 
whipped cream. For garnish, candied cherries may be used. 

If desired, the brandy and sugar may be omitted, serving 
it plain, with sugar and a grating of nutmeg. 

CUSTARD JUNKET, 494 CALORIES 
(Two Servings.) 

y 2 cup hot milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 egg. Ya teaspoon vanilla. 

2 tablespoons sugar. % Junket Tablet. 

? /\ cup lukewarm milk. 2 teaspoons cold water. 

Beat the egg, add two tablespoons sugar ; gradually pour 
on the hot milk. Cook in top of double boiler, stirring con- 
stantly until it thickens ; take at once from the fire and cool. 



CORNSTARCH PUDDING, BLANC MANGE 263 

Mix two tablespoons sugar with the lukewarm milk, add to 
the cooled custard and blend thoroughly. When lukewarm 
add vanilla and the tablet dissolved in cold water; finish as 
for Plain Junket. 

COCOA JUNKET, 232 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon cocoa. %. Junket Tablet. 

2 teaspoons sugar. 1 teaspoon cold water. 
2 tablespoons boiling water. 3 drops vanilla. 

1 cup milk. 

Mix the cocoa, sugar and boiling water, cook over heat 
and rub to a smooth paste ; gradually add the fresh cool 
milk. Heat until lukewarm (not more), add vanilla and 
then tablet dissolved in the cold water. Finish as for Plain 
Junket and serve with sweetened cream or a Soft Custard. 

PLAIN AND COCOA JUNKET WITH LACTOSE, 2IQ, CALORIES 1 

1 teaspoonful of cocoa. 5 ounces of milk (10 table- 

25 grams of milk sugar (scant spoons). 

2 tablespoons) Va Junket Tablet dissolved in 1 

ounce of cold water. 

Mix the cocoa and sugar, add the milk and heat lukewarm, 
stirring constantly; add the dissolved junket, stir thoroughly 
and leave in a cool place to set. For Plain Junket omit cocoa. 



Cornstarch Pudding or Blanc Mange 

Starch of various kinds is used in milk puddings. For 
children, invalids and dyspeptics such puddings are ad- 
mirable. They must be thoroughly cooked, that the action of 
the heat may affect the starch. The combination of starch 
and milk gives a wholesome nutritive food and the addition 
of eggs increases the food value. 

1 Dr. W. Coleman, American Journal of Medical Sciences, January, 1912. 



264 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

CORNSTARCH PUDDING, 32 1 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup milk. Speck salt. 

VA tablespoons cornstarch. White 1 egg. 

VA tablespoons sugar. Vanilla. 

Scald the milk in double boiler. Mix cornstarch, sugar 
and salt thoroughly; add the scalded milk slowly, stirring 
constantly. Return to top of boiler and cook twenty min- 
utes, stirring constantly for the first five or six minutes, then 
occasionally. Remove from fire and while very hot fold in 
the well-beaten white of egg lightly, but thoroughly. When 
partially cooled add flavoring to taste; put into wet cups 
or molds, cool and then stand for several hours on ice. Re- 
move from molds. Serve with a soft custard, mashed fresh 
berries, or whipped cream. Vary the pudding by adding a 
little melted Walter Baker's chocolate. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM, 377 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup milk. Speck salt. 

l l A tablespoons cornstarch. White 1 egg. 

\]/ 2 tablespoons sugar. 2 tablespoons grated pineapple. 

Follow directions for Cornstarch Pudding, adding the 
pineapple instead of vanilla. Pour into individual molds and 
serve cold with cream. 

CORNSTARCH FRUIT JELLY 

(Two Servings.) 

1 cup raspberry juice. 2 tablespoons cornstarch. 

Sugar. 

Sweeten the juice to taste and heat to boiling point. Make 
a smooth paste of the cornstarch and a little cold water, add 
slowly to the juice and cook thirty minutes in top of double 
boiler, stirring constantly at first. Pour into cold, wet molds. 
Serve cold with whipped cream and fresh, whole berries. 



CORNSTARCH PUDDING, BLANC MANGE 265 

MALTED MILK BLANC MANGE, 284 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

2 tablespoons Horlick's Malted Speck salt. 

Milk. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

2 tablespoons powdered arrow- \Y 2 cups boiling water. 

root. Y\ teaspoon vanilla. 

Mix the arrowroot and malted milk powder with a little 
cold water into a smooth paste. Add the boiling water slowly, 
cook in double boiler about twenty minutes, or until arrow- 
root is thoroughly cooked, add vanilla and pour into cold, 
wet molds. Chill and serve with Soft Custard or whipped 
cream. 

Note : One teaspoon powdered coffee may be added to 
above before cooking, for Coffee Blanc Mange. 

NUTRITIOUS WHEAT PUDDING, 256 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup milk. White 1 egg. 

2V2 tablespoons flour. T 4 teaspoon vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Blend flour with a little of the cold milk. Scald remainder 
of milk and add flour mixture ; cook thoroughly ; add salt 
and flavoring and fold in the white of egg beaten slightly. 
Put into cold, wet mold, cool and set in ice box to harden. 
Serve with Soft Custard or whipped cream, or sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and pour over it one-fourth cup of fresh 
fruit juice or crushed fruit. 

DIABETIC — GLUTEN PUDDING, 869 CALORIES 
(Six Servings.) 

3 tablespoons gluten flour. 1 teaspoon butter. 
1 pint hot milk. % teaspoon salt. 
1 pint cold milk. Cinnamon. 

1 egg. Saccharin. 

Blend gluten flour with a little of the cold milk, add 
gradually to one pint hot milk. Cook thoroughly. Beat egg, 
add cold milk, the cooked mixture and salt, cinnamon and 
saccharin to taste. Bake thirty minutes. A little fruit im- 
proves the flavor. Serve with whipped cream. 



266 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

IRISH MOSS JELLY, 677 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

l A cup Irish moss. Juice 1 lemon or orange. 

2 cups boiling water. l /z cup sugar. 

4 figs. 

Soak, pick over and wash the moss. Put it into the boil- 
ing water, add the figs cut into strips and simmer about 
twenty minutes, or until it is very thick when dropped on 
a cold plate. Add lemon juice and sugar. Strain into a 
cold, wet mold. 

IRISH -MOSS BLANC MANGE, 296 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 

Va cup Irish moss. V\§ teaspoon salt. 

W2 cups cold water. J/3 teaspoon vanilla. 

1^4 CU P S milk. 

Soak the moss in cold water about fifteen minutes. Re- 
move from water, pick over and put into double boiler with 
the milk. Cook about twenty minutes, or until it thickens 
when dropped on a cold plate. Add salt, strain and flavor. 
Strain again and turn into small, cold, wet molds. Chill and 
serve with cream and sugar or sliced fruit. 

Rice Puddings 

BOILED RICE, ICO CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 tablespoons rice. y 2 teaspoon salt. 

2 cups boiling water. 

Wash rice thoroughly and add gradually to the boiling 
salted water, taking care that the water does not stop 
boiling. Boil uncovered twenty minutes, or until grains 
are soft. Turn into a strainer, pour over it one cup of hot 
water, drain and put into oven a few moments to dry, 
with oven door open. Serve as a cereal with sugar or cream 
or as a pudding with cooked dates and whipped cream, or 
plain with Soft Custard. 

Note: Keep rice well covered with water while cooking. 



RICE PUDDINGS 267 

Dates: Cut into small pieces, add a little water to partly 
cover and cook until soft. Simmer and do not stir. 

STEAMED RICE, 267 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Vz cup rice. Yz teaspoon salt. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Pick over the rice, wash in three or four waters ; put it 
with the boiling water and salt in upper part of double 
boiler. Do not stir while cooking. Steam one hour, or until 
the grains are tender. Serve as a cereal .with sugar or cream, 
as a pudding with Soft Custard, or with sugar and cream. 

Note : A few dates cut in narrow strips may be added 
just before serving if desired. Part milk may be used in 
the cooking. 

PEACHES AND RICE 

Serve boiled or steamed rice with sections of fresh, juicy 
peaches, or with fresh berries. Serve with sugar and cream. 

DATES AND RICE, 802 CALORIES 

1 tablespoon sugar 34 cup boiling water. 

I cup Dromedary Dates. 1 cup boiled or steamed rice. 

Put dates, sugar and boiling water into sauce pan and 
simmer three minutes. Make border around serving dish 
with the boiled or steam rice and fill center with the date 
mixture. Serve with cream. 

SOUTHERN SNOWBALLS, 369 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

J4 cup rice. % teaspoon salt. 

1 cup milk. 

Pick over rice, wash in several waters and put into top of 
double boiler with milk and salt. Cook until milk is ab- 
sorbed and rice is tender. Do not stir while cooking. Dip 
egg cups in cold water and pack with rice carefully but 
tightly, turn out on serving dish, sprinkle with powdered 



268 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

sugar, put a candied cherry or a strawberry on top, and serve 
with whipped cream. 

PLAIN RICE PUDDING, 634 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

I cup steamed rice. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 cup scalded milk. Y% teaspoon salt. 

y 2 tablespoon butter. Y^ cup stoned raisins. 
1 egg- 

Scald milk and add butter. Beat egg, add sugar and salt 
and pour on the scalded milk slowly. Put into pudding dish 
with rice and raisins. Bake in a moderate oven until custard 
is set. Serve with hard sauce. 

Note : Do not use raisins in case of bowel trouble. 

RICE MERINGUE, 504 CALORIES 
(Two Servings.) 

% cup cold cooked rice. Egg yolk. 

1 cup scalded milk. Vanilla. 
2 l / 2 tablespoons sugar. 1 egg white. 

V2 saltspoon salt. 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Blend rice and milk and soak until soft. Beat the yolk, 
add sugar and salt and gradually the hot milk and rice. 
Cook until it thickens like soft custard. Flavor to taste 
and pour into pudding dish or custard cups. Make a 
meringue of the white of egg and powdered sugar, cover the 
pudding and brown slightly in the oven. 

CREAM OF RICE PUDDING, 642 CALORIES 
(Three Servings.) 

% cup rice (well washed). % teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 pint milk. 
Grated rind of Vz lemon. 

Mix all ingredients in a small baking dish. Bake two 
hours, slowly at first until rice is softened and thickened in 
the milk. Cut the crust several times, stirring to the bottom 
gently. The crust will then dissolve in the pudding, giving 
it a creamy color. Then let it brown slightly. 



TAPIOCA PUDDINGS 269 

Tapioca Puddings 

TAPICOCA CREAM, 395 CALORIES 
(Two Servings.) 
VA tablespoons Minute Tapi- 1 cup scalded milk. 

oca. 1 egg. 

\ l / 2 tablespoons sugar. Flavoring. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Mix tapioca, sugar and salt ; 
add slowly to the scalded milk, return to double boiler and 
cook fifteen minutes. Add the yolk and white of the egg, 
beaten separately. Remove from fire and add flavoring de- 
sired. Serve plain or with any fresh fruit in season. 

PLAIN TAPIOCA, 405 CALORIES 
"(Three Servings.) 
VA tablespoons Minute Tapi- 1 cup scalded milk. 

oca. % cup raisins. 

1 tablespoon sugar. Nutmeg. 

Salt. 

Scald milk in double boiler and gradually add the tapioca 
and sugar. Cook fifteen minutes. Add salt, nutmeg to taste 
and seeded raisins. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Note : Raisins should never be used in bowel trouble. 

PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA, 850 CALORIES 
(Three Servings.) 
%. cup Minute Tapioca. VA cups boiling water. 

% cup sugar. 1 cup canned grated pineapple. 

Speck salt. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt, pour the boiling water on 
slowly and cook in double boiler until clear, about fifteen 
minutes. Pour over the grated pineapple and decorate the 
top of the pudding with current jelly. 

APPLE TAPIOCA, 458 CALORIES 1 

(Three Servings.) 

% cup Minute Tapioca. 1 pint boiling water. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 3 tart apples. 

Speck salt. Sugar, nutmeg. 

1 Without extra sugar. 



270 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt, pour the boiling water on 
slowly, and cook in double boiler fifteen minutes. Pour this 
over the apples, which have been pared and cored and the 
holes filled with sugar and a little nutmeg. Cover the dish 
and bake one-half hour. Serve with cream and sugar. 

RASPBERRY TAPIOCA, 206 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

\ l / 2 tablespoons Minute Tapi- ]/ 2 cup raspberry juice. 

oca. Juice l / 2 lemon. 

\y 2 tablespoons sugar. Speck salt. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt, pour the boiling water on 
slowly and cook in double boiler fifteen minutes. Add rasp- 
berry and lemon juice. When it begins to jelly, beat smooth 
with a spoon. Serve plain or with whipped cream. 

DATE TAPIOCA, 525 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

\y 2 tablespoons Minute Tapi- 1 cup scalded milk. 

oca. 1 egg. 

1 tablespoon sugar. Y^ cup chopped dates. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt ; gradually add the hot milk 
and cook in double boiler fifteen minutes. Add the beaten 
egg yolk and cook three minutes longer. Stir in the dates. 
Make a meringue of the white of egg, heap it on top and 
brown delicately in the oven. 

CHOCOLATE OR COCOA BLANC MANGE, 856 CALORIES 1 

(Three Servings.) 

% cup Minute Tapioca. \ l / 2 cups hot chocolate or cocoa 

y$ cup sugar. J4 teaspoon vanilla. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt; gradually pour on the hot 
cocoa and cook in double boiler about twenty minutes. Re- 
move from heat, add vanilla and pour into cold, wet molds. 
Serve cold, plain or with whipped cream or soft custard. 

1 Calculated with chocolate, recipe, page 323. 



BREAD PUDDINGS 271 

Bread Puddings 

The principle of employing farinaceous matter which has 
already been subjected to heat, so that a considerable con^ 
version of starch has occurred before the human salivary 
diastase comes into play, is put into practice in the form 
of bread puddings. 

PLAIN BREAD PUDDING, 909 CALORIES 
(Two Servings.) 
1 cup stale bread. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 cup milk. % teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon butter. % cup seeded raisins. 

1 egg. 

Scald milk and add butter. Beat the egg and add sugar 
and salt; pour the scalded milk on gradually. Cut the 
bread into one-half inch cubes and add with the raisins. 
Pour into well-buttered pudding dish, put bits of butter on 
top and bake in a moderate oven until the custard is set. 
Serve with hard sauce or cream and sugar. 

Note : Do not serve raisins in bowel trouble. 

ORANGE BREAD PUDDING, 955 CALORIES 
(Two Servings.) 
24 cup stale bread. 2 oranges. 

Yz cup milk. 6 tablespoons sugar. 

2 eggs. 

Soak bread in the milk until soft and beat lightly with 
fork; add the grated rind of one orange and the juice of 
both ; sweeten. Beat the whites very light and add to above 
mixture. Pour into custard cups and cook as for baked cus- 
tard — about fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve plain or with 
hard sauce. 

Note : Omit orange rind if it will interfere medicinally. 

LEMON BREAD PUDDING, 527 CALORIES 
(Two Servings.) 
Yz cup milk. 3 tablespoons sugar. 

V2 cup soft bread crumbs. Vz tablespoon butter. 

Yolk 1 egg. Grated rind % lemon. 

Speck salt. 



2.J2 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Scald milk and add butter. Beat the egg yolk, add sugar 
and salt and pour the scalded milk on gradually. Add the 
bread crumbs and grated lemon rind ; pour into a buttered 
pudding dish and bake in a moderate oven about fifteen min- 
utes, or until set like baked custard. 

Make a meringue by beating the white of tgg very stiff, 
adding two tablespoons powdered sugar and juice of one- 
fourth lemon. Cover the pudding with this and set in the 
oven till a dainty brown. 

Note : Do not use lemon rind if it will interfere medici- 
nally. For the crumbs, rub soft bread through a coarse 
strainer or colander. 

JELLY BREAD PUDDING 

Prepare the same as for Lemon Bread Pudding, omitting 
the lemon rind and juice. Spread any tart jelly over pudding 
when baked and add meringue. 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING, 636 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

Yz cup stale bread crumbs. 2Vz tablespoons sugar. 

1 cup milk. 1 egg. 

l A square Walter Baker's un- Speck salt. 

sweetened chocolate. Va teaspoon vanilla. 

Soak bread crumbs in milk. Melt chocolate over hot water 
and add to it the sugar and salt. To the chocolate mixture, 
add the soaked crumbs, the beaten tgg and vanilla. Put into 
buttered custard cups and bake in a moderate oven about 
twenty minutes, or until custard is set. Serve hot, plain or 
with hard sauce. 

LACTOSE BREAD PUDDING, 526 CALORIES 1 

W2 ounces of milk sugar 1 egg. 

(about 3 tablespoons). 1 slice of bread (Vs inch thick) 

6 ounces of milk (12 table- 2 /$ ounce of butter (1 level 

spoons). tablespoon). 

Spread the bread with butter and cut into squares. Beat 

1 Dr. W. Coleman, American Journal of Medical Sciences, January, 1912. 



PUDDING SAUCES 273 

the egg slightly ; heat the milk and sugar, stirring constantly ; 
mix with the egg and pour over the bread. Grate nutmeg 
over the top and bake the same as the custard. 

BROWN BETTY, 2/0 CALORIES 1 
(Individual Rule.) 
Bread crumbs. Sugar. 

1 large sour apple. Cinnamon. 

2 teaspoons butter. 

In a well-buttered individual baking dish place a layer 
of bread crumbs ; into this put one-half apple cooked as for 
apple sauce or raw, cut in thin slices or chopped ; season with 
sugar, speck of cinnamon and bits of butter. Add another 
layer of crumbs, then the remaining half of apple and season- 
ing, lastly crumbs. Place bits of butter on top, put in slow 
oven and bake. 

Cracker Puddings 

CRACKER PUDDING, 393 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

V/ 2 soda crackers. Yolk 1 egg. 

1 cup milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Y% teaspoon salt. 

Roll the crackers and soak in the milk. Beat yolks and 
sugar well together and add to pudding with salt. Bake 
one-half hour. Make a meringue with the whites of the 
eggs, pile lightly on top and put into oven till golden brown. 
Serve hot. 

Pudding Sauces 

HARD SAUCE, JJO CALORIES 
(Four Servings.) 

3 tablespoons butter. V 2 white of egg. 

9 tablespoons powdered sugar. y 2 tablespoon cream. 

Nutmeg. 

Cream butter; add sugar graaually. When light and 
creamy add the unbeaten white of egg and the cream, a drop 

Calculated with 2 teaspoons sugar and 1 large slice of bread. 



274 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

or two at a time. Season highly. Heap on serving dish and 
cool. 

FOAMY SAUCE, 84I CALORIES 1 
(Three Servings.) 
% cup butter. V 2 egg 

y 2 cup powdered sugar. 1 tablespoon wine. 

Cream butter ; add sugar gradually, the well-beaten egg 
and the wine. Heat over hot water, beating constantly. 
Serve immediately. 

VANILLA SAUCE, 466 CALORIES 

2 tablespoons butter y± cup sugar. 

2 tablespoons flour. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Mix butter and flour and stir until smooth, add the boiling 
water and sugar. Cook thoroughly. Add flavoring and 
serve. Cornstarch may be substituted for the flour. 

GOLD SAUCE, 856 CALORIES 

Yolks 2 eggs. Lemon juice or vanilla. 

1 cup powdered sugar. 

Beat yolks very light and add powdered sugar gradually, 
beating constantly. Add seasoning and serve. 

TO WHIP CREAM 
y 2 cup thick cream (40%) =432 Calories. 

Do not have cream too thick ; season with sugar and any 
flavoring desired ; put into bowl and set bowl in another 
utensil containing a little cold water and ice. Beat cream with 
Dover egg-beater until stiff enough to keep its form. Set on 
ice to keep cold. 

Note : Do not beat too long or it may turn to butter. To 
one-half cup thick cream add three tablespoons milk. 



Calculated without wine. 



GELATIN 275 

WHIPPED CREAM NO. II 
1 average egg white = 17 Calories. 

Follow the above recipe, and add the white of one egg 
beaten stiff, folding it into the stiffly-beaten cream. 

FRUIT SAUCE 

(Two Servings.) 

6 tablespoons fruit juice. Yz teaspoon arrowroot or corn- 

starch. 

Blend starch with a little cold water and pour into the 
hot fruit juice. Boil two or three minutes. Sweeten if de- 
sired. 

ORANGE SAUCE 

See chapter "Gelatin" for recipe. Page 282. 

Gelatin 1 

Source. — Gelatin is a protein derived from "collagen," the 
chief constituent of connective tissue with its various modi- 
fications, as tendons, the "chondrigen" of cartilage, or the 
"ossein" of bone. "By proper treatment, any form of con- 
nective tissue can be made to yield gelatin. The best com- 
mercial gelatin is made from 'ossein' of bone — just like 
home-made soup stock. Isinglass, obtained from the swim- 
ming bladder of the sturgeon and other fish, is the purest 
form of gelatin ; the gelatin obtained from calves' feet is also 
of high quality." 2 

General Principles in Cooking. — Gelatin is insoluble in 
cold water, but when allowed to stand in it will swell from 
absorption of water. "Gelatin is very soluble in boiling 
water, and on cooling sets into a jelly. This jellying will 
occur in a solution containing as little as 1 per cent, of 
gelatin." 2 Gelatin is decomposed by boiling and conse- 
quently if allowed to boil will not solidify on cooling. 

Gelatin is classed with the Nutritious Desserts for convenience, rather than 
under Animal Foods where it rightly belongs. 

2 State of Connecticut. Report of The Connecticut Agricultural Experiment 
Station. Food and Drug Products, 1909. Being Part II of the Biennial 
Report of 1909-1910. 



276 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

General Rules for Blending. — Soak gelatin in cold water 
until it is softened. Add the boiling water to the softened 
gelatin to dissolve it. If gelatin must be softened quickly, 
pour the cold water over the gelatin and heat over boiling 
water until it is dissolved. 

Gelatin should be covered with a cloth while soaking. 

Add sugar to the mixture while hot and stir until the sugar 
is dissolved. 

Add the fruit juice, etc. 

Jellies should be strained through a fine wire strainer or 
through cheese cloth. 

The cloth through which jellies are strained should be wet. 

If jellies are to be molded, the molds should be wet with 
cold water. 

Jellies should be placed near the ice to harden, but may 
be hardened quickly by surrounding with ice water. 

One level tablespoon of granulated gelatin will stiffen about 
one pint of liquid. 

Digestibility. — Gelatin is very easily digested in the stom- 
ach, and readily absorbed from the small intestines. 

Nutritive Value. — Although gelatin is a true protein it 
cannot alone support life because of the absence of the 
amino acid, tryptophan. (See page 16.) 

In convalescence, acid jellies (orange, lemon, etc.,) are of 
service as a pleasant supplement to the ordinary diet, but the 
actual nutriment which they supply is small. 

Extra nutriment can be added to gelatin by combining it 
with eggs and milk, as- in Snow Pudding, Charlottes of 
various kinds, Spanish Cream, etc., all of which are attrac- 
tive forms of invalid diet. 

Meat Jellies are a condensed form of broth, and are pre- 
pared by taking any meat containing a large proportion of 
connective tissues and cooking long and slowly. (Note 
broths, page 126, for directions and recipes.) Home-made 
jellies, properly prepared, have a pleasing flavor and are an 
agreeable addition to diet of an invalid, although their nu- 
tritive value is low. 



GELATIN 277 

For the Diabetic. — In sweetening gelatin, sugar must be 
replaced by sweetina or saccharin. It is many times sweeter 
than sugar but it has no food value. Note Sugar Substi- 
tutes, page 213. 

WINE JELLY XO. I, 1 52 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin 2 tablespoons sherry wine. 

1 tablespoon cold water. 1 tablespoon orange juice. 
% cup boiling water. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes ; add the boiling 
water and dissolve. Add sugar, wine, orange and lemon 
juice. When sugar is dissolved, strain through a cheese- 
cloth into cold, wet molds ; or chill in shallow soup plate 
and when firm cut into one-half inch cubes and serve in 
sherbet or champagne glasses or half orange shell with a 
little whipped cream on top. 

WINE JELLY XO. II, I53O CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 

2 tablespoons granulated gf latin 2 cups boiling water. 
Yz cup cold wafer. 1 cup sherry wine. • 

\ l A cups sugar. Speck salt. 

Cover gelatin with the cold water and let it stand about 
one-half hour. Add the boiling water, sugar and salt. Stir 
till gelatin is dissolved and add the wine. Strain through 
cloth and strainer into cold, wet molds and set in cold place 
to harden. Serve plain or with whipped cream. 

ORANGE JELLY XO. I, IO23 CALORIES 
(Six Servings.) 
2 tablespoons granulated gel- 1 cup sugar. 

atin. 1 cup orange juice. 

l A cup cold water. Juice 1 lemon. 

2 cups boiling water. 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water one-half hour ; add the 
boiling water and dissolve. Add sugar and fruit juice, 



278 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

strain through a cloth and strainer into cold, wet molds 
and set away to harden. Serve plain or with whipped cream. 

ORANGE JELLY NO. II, 1 36 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 3 tablespoons orange juice. 

1 tablespoon cold water. 2 teaspoons lemon juice. 

3 tablespoons boiling water. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Make same as preceding, soaking gelatin five minutes. 

Cut orange in half, crosswise, remove pulp with spoon 
and strain through cheese-cloth. Fill halves with jelly ; when 
it is hardened cut with sharp knife into thirds, thus leaving 
the rim filled with jelly. Serve three pieces on small plate 
with whipped cream in center. 

ORANGE BASKETS 

Wash oranges. Remove two sections from the upper half 
of an orange, leaving a band of peel for a handle. Dig out 
the pulp and scrape clean. Fill with lemon or orange jelly, 
cut into cubes. An attractive form to serve to children. 

Note: If these shells are wrapped in a damp cloth they 
will retain their shape for hours. 

LEMON JELLY, 1 25 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

1 tablespoon cold water. 2 tablespoons sugar. 
Y\ cup boiling water. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes ; add the boiling 
water, sugar and fruit juice. When the sugar is dissolved, 
pour into cold, wet molds and put on ice to harden. 

JELLIED PRUNES, 1 352 CALORIES 
(Six Servings.) 

2 tablespoons granulated gel- 1 cup sugar. 

atin. Y$ cup lemon juice. 

Vz lb. prunes. •- 

2y 2 cups cold water. 



GELATIN 279 

Pick over, wash and soak prunes for several hours in two 
cups cold water and cook in same water until soft; remove 
prunes, stone and cut in quarters. To prune water add 
enough boiling water to make two cups. Soak gelatin in half 
cup cold water, dissolve in hot liquid, add sugar and lemon 
juice, then strain, add prunes, mold and chill. Stir twice 
while cooling to prevent prunes from settling. Serve with 
sugar and cream. 

GRAPE JELLY, 588 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. J / 2 cup sugar. 
% cup cold water. Juice 1 lemon. 

1 cup boiling water. V 2 cup grape juice. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water; add boiling water and 
dissolve. Add sugar, lemon juice and grape juice; strain, 
pour into cold, wet molds and cool. 

This recipe may be served in another and very inviting 
form ; when the gelatin is firm, force it through a potato 
ricer. Keep on ice until ready to serve. 

PEACH JELLY, Il6 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

1 teaspoon cold water. 1 tablespoon sherry wine. 

1 tablespoon boiling water. \ l / 2 tablespoons sugar. 
3 tablespoons peach juice. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add boiling 
water and dissolve. Add fruit juice, wine and sugar, strain 
and pour into a cold, wet mold. 

COFFEE JELLY, 513 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 tablespoon cold water. 7 tablespoons thick cream. 

2 tablespoons strong hot coffee. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes. Add the hot 
coffee and dissolve ; add sugar and strain. Set bowl into 



-28o NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

chopped ice, or ice water to cool, stirring occasionally until 
it thickens. Then add the cream, and pour into cold, wet 
molds to chill. 

CREAM JELLY, 332 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 tablespoon cold water. Speck salt. 

3 tablespoons scalded milk. Vanilla to taste. 

4 tablespoons thick cream. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes ; add the scalded 
milk and dissolve. Add the sugar, salt, cream and vanilla. 
Stir occasionally until the mixture thickens ; pour into cold, 
wet after-dinner coffee cups, or egg cups, and chill. Serve 
with Soft Custard, or cream and sugar. 

PEPTONIZED MILK JELLY, 567 CALORIES 1 
(Three Servings.) 

1 cup cold water. Rinds and juice of one fresh 

2 tablespoons granulated gel- lemon and orange. 

atin. 2 or 3 tablespoons best St. 

1 pint "specially peptonized Croix rum, or brandy, etc. 2 

milk," hot. 
Sugar to taste. 

Soak the gelatin in a cup of cold water, pour the hot milk 
over it and add the sugar ; stir until dissolved, then throw 
in the lemon and orange rinds. 

Squeeze the juice of the lemon and orange into a glass 
and strain ; stir in the rum or brandy, etc., then mix with the 
milk and gelatin; strain. 

When the mixture has cooled to a syrup so as to be almost 
ready to set, pour into molds or glasses wet in cold water 
and put on ice or in cold water or in a cold place to harden ; 
if it is too warm when poured into the molds, it is likely to 
separate in setting. 

1 Without sugar. 

2 Calculated with 2 tablespoons rum. 



GELATIN 281 

DATE JELLY 

y 2 lb. Dromedary Dates. V 2 pint orange gelatin jelly. 

y 2 pint strawberry gelatin jelly. 

Pit dates and fill with walnuts chopped fine. Pour half 
the strawberry mixture into a mold and when it begins to 
harden, cover with layer of dates and half the orange mix- 
ture. When this hardens repeat the process until all the in- 
gredients are used. Keep on ice until perfectly firm. Serve 
with cream. 

SNOW PUDDING, 943 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 

l / 2 envelope Knox Sparkling 1 cup sugar. 

granulated gelatin. % cup lemon jufce. 

% cup cold water. Whites 3 eggs. 

1 cup boiling water. 1 teaspoon lemon extract. 

Soften gelatin in cold water, add boiling water and dis- 
solve. Add sugar, fruit juice and extract and stir until 
sugar is dissolved. Set bowl into chopped ice or ice water 
to cool, stirring occasionally; when jelly is quite thick fold 
in the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs and put into cold,' wet 
molds. Put on ice to harden. When firm^ remove from 
molds and serve with Soft Custard Xo, 1, 

SNOW PUDDING, 202 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

t teaspoons granulated gelatin. \y 2 tablespoons lemon iuice. 
3 tablespoons cold water. 3 tablespoons sugar 

Yj, cup boiling water. White 1 egg. 

Blend the same as the preceding recipe. 

SPANISH CREAM, II05 CALORIES 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. % teaspoon salt. 

%. cup cold milk or water. 1 teaspoon vanilla or 

2y 2 cups hot milk. 2 teaspoons sherry. 1 

Yolk 3 eggs. Whites 3 eggs beaten very light. 

y 2 cup sugar. 

Soften gelatin in cold milk or water. Beat yolks in top 

1 Calculated without sherry. 



282 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS ' 

of double boiler and add the sugar and gradually the hot milk. 
Place boiler over hot water and stir until custard thickens ; 
remove boiler immediately from hot water and add the soft- 
ened gelatin, salt and flavoring, stirring till the gelatin dis- 
solves. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites and pour into cold, 
wet molds, large or individual, to harden. Serve with 
Soft Custard No. I, or with Whipped Cream. 

SPANISH CREAM, 304 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 tablespoon cold water. Speck salt. 

3 tablespoons boiling water. White 1 egg. 

2 /z cup milk. Y A teaspoon vanilla. 

Yolk 1 egg. 

Blend the same as the preceding and serve with Orange 
Sauce. 

ORANGE SAUCE, 1 32 CALORIES 
(Three Servings.) 
Beat white of one egg very light, add two tablespoons 
sugar gradually, beating constantly, then add one and one- 
half tablespoons orange juice and one teaspoon lemon juice. 

BAVARIAN CREAM, 252 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. % tablespoon sugar. 

1 tablespoon cold water. % teaspoon vanilla. 

J4 cup milk. % cup whipped cream (2 table- 
Yolk 1 egg. spoons thick cream). 

Soak gelatin in cold water 5 minutes. Heat the milk and 
pour into the beaten yolk of egg and add this mixture to gela- 
tin ; stir until gelatin is dissolved and flavor. Set in ice water 
to cool, beating almost constantly. When it begins to stiffen, 
fold in the whipped cream. Pour into molds. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

Note : Chocolate may be added by omitting flavoring, add- 
ing chocolate to hot milk and dissolving before adding to 
the yolk. 



GELATIN 283 

A CONVALESCENT'S TREAT — CHOCOLATE SPONGE, 848 CALORIES 1 

(Six Servings) 

l / 2 envelope Knox Sparkling y$ cupful of sugar. 

granulated gelatin. 3 eggs. 

J4 cup cold water. Few grains of salt. 

l /i cupful boiling water. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

2 squares chocolate or 

6 tablespoons cocoa. 

Soak gelatin in cold water until soft, then dissolve in boil- 
ing water. Add cocoa or melted chocolate. Beat tgg whites 
until stiff and add well-beaten tgg yolks, one at a time, to 
the whites. Add sugar, then the dissolved gelatin, which has 
been beaten well. Beat and add flavoring. Pour into wet 
mold, chill and serve with whipped cream or whipped evap- 
orated milk. This recipe is quickly prepared. 

GRAPE FLUFF, 969 CALORIES 
(Six Servings.) 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. 1 cup grape juice. 
%. cup cold water. Juice 1 lemon. 

Y\ cup sugar. Whites 3 eggs. 

Soften the gelatin in cold water and dissolve by standing 
the dish in hot water. Dissolve the sugar in the fruit juice 
and strain the gelatin into it. Set in ice and water and 
stir occasionally until the mixture begins to thicken, then 
gradually add the well-beaten whites of eggs and beat until 
the whole is very light and stiff enough to hold its shape. 
Pile lightly in glass serving dish, or mold and serve with 
Whipped Cream or Soft Custard. 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE, 358 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 

2 teaspoons granulated gelatin. 3 tablespoons orange juice. 
1 tablespoon cold water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

l A cup boiling water. Whites 2 eggs. 

Vz cup sugar. 

Blend as for Orange Gelatin and set the bowl into chopped 
ice or ice-water to cool; stir occasionally. When jelly is 



284 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

quite thick, fold in the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. Mix 
well and pour into cold, wet molds. Put on ice to harden. 
When firm, remove by dipping mold quickly in warm water ; 
loosen with knife, allowing air to enter. Serve with Soft 
Custard No. I. 

Note : Line molds with lady fingers or slices of sponge 
cake and pour in the charlotte. 

STRAWBERRY MOUSSE, 21 72 CALORIES 1 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. 1 pint thick cream. 

34 cup cold water. x / 2 cup powdered sugar. 

}/\ cup boiling water. 1 cup strawberry juice. 

Soften the gelatin in the cold water ; add the boiling water 
and dissolve. Whip the cream until stiff and add the pow- 
dered sugar. Add the strawberry juice to the gelatin, fold 
the cream in carefully, turn into a wet mold and pack in 
salt and ice for two hours. 

THE MADE-IN-A-MINUTE DESSERT, 395 CALORIES 2 

Dissolve one package of Jell-O in one pint of boiling water. 
Pour into a mold and put in a cold place to harden. When 
set, turn out on a plate and serve with whipped cream. Wine 
Jelly can be made by using one-fourth cup of good wine with 
the Lemon Jell-O and that much less water. 

PINEAPPLE JELL-0 WHIP, 839 CALORIES 

Drain the juice from one cup of canned pineapple. Add 
enough water to make a pint, heat to boiling point and dis- 
solve in this liquid one package of Lemon Jell-O. When cool 
but still liquid, set the dish in ice water and whip to the con- 
sistency of whipped cream. Chop or grate the pineapple and 
fold into the whipped Jell-O, turn into mold to harden or 
pile up in sherbet glasses. Fresh or canned berries may be 
used in place of pineapple. 

1 Calculated without fruit. 

2 Calculated without cream. 



GELATIN 285 

LACTOSE JELLY, 1 1 74 CALORIES 

I/2 teaspoon granulated gelatin. \ l / 2 teaspoons cane-sugar. 

2 teaspoons cold water. 1 teaspoon sherry. 

3 tablespoons orange juice. 3 tablespoons lactose. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 3 tablespons boiling water. 

Boil lactose in water until clear. Pour over soaked 
gelatin to dissolve and add other ingredients. Strain through 
cheese-cloth and chill. 

May also be flavored with grape or raspberry juice. 

DIABETIC AGAR- AGAR JELLY 2 

7 grams agar-agar. 2y 2 grains saccharin. 

1.000 c.c. water. ■ Flavoring as desired. 

Mix agar-agar and cold water ; cook over a moderate fire 
until it boils. Allow to simmer two or three hours until 
mixture is clear ; add sufficient hot water to make one quart 
of liquid. Remove from fire ; add saccharin and flavor as 
desired. The following flavors are suggested : 

Coffee, cinnamon, cocoa (cocoa shells), lemon extract, 
orange extract, strawberry extract, mapleine extract, pep- 
permint. Burnett's coloring paste may be added to the jellies. 

DIABETIC WINE JELLY 3 

4 ounce mold — 35 Calories. 

2 teaspoons granulated gelatin. 1 tablespoon brandy. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 4 tablespoons cold water. 

4 tablespoons sherry wine. \ l / 2 cups boiling water. 

Soak gelatin in cold water, add boiling water, sherry wine, 
brandy, lemon juice and saccharin. Stir until the gelatin is 
thoroughly dissolved. Pour into small molds, and stand in 
a cold place until firm. 

DIABETIC — LEMON JELLY 3 
4 ounce mold — 20 Calories. 
1 tablespoon granulated gel- 1 gr. saccharin. 

atin. l / 2 cup lemon juice. 

54 cup cold water. 3 cups boiling water. 

1 Dr. H. Carter, "Presbvterian Diet Lists," New York; W. B. Saunders, 
Phila., Pa. 

-Dr. Frederick M. Allen, Director Psychiatric Institute, Morristown, N. J. 
3 "St. Luke's Dietary," St. Luke's Hospital, New York City. 



286 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Soak gelatin in cold water, add boiling water, lemon juice 
and saccharin. Stir until the gelatin is thoroughly dissolved. 
Pour into small molds and stand in a cold place until firm. 

MEAT JELLIES 

See ''Meat Jellies" for recipe. Page 129-130. 

STARCHY JELLIES 

See "Starchy Jellies" for recipe. Page 203. 
Frozen Dessert 

ICE CREAM SHERBET ICES 

Frozen dishes not only constitute an acceptable form of 
serving nutriment, but are often a means of furnishing addi- 
tional liquid and relieving thirst. Ices and sherbets made 
with fruits and water have a dietetic value similar to acid 
beverages. Frozen cream, milk, junkets, custards, etc., have 
the same nutritive value as the same foods served without 
freezing. 

In giving all very cold dishes, care must be taken not to 
interfere with the digestion of other foods. Chilling the 
mouth hinders the formation and activity of saliva ; chilling 
the stomach retards gastric digestion. The latter effect can 
be avoided by eating ice-cold food very slowly, so that it is 
partially warmed before reaching the stomach. Frozen foods 
should not be given when ptyalin digestion is especially im- 
portant. 

General Rules for Freezing. — Ice (or snow) and salt are 
required for the process of freezing. The salt melts the ice 
and in melting absorbs heat from the mixture, thus causing it 
to freeze. The finer the ice, the more quickly the freezing 
will be accomplished. In packing a freezer allow three level 
measures of ice to one of salt. This proportion is found best 
for fine-grained mixture. The can should not be filled more 
than three-fourths full, as the liquid expands in freezing 
and if overcrowded the cream will become coarse-grained 



FROZEN DESSERT 287 

and the cover may be pushed up allowing the salt water to 
get in. 

Freezing in Small Amounts. — Put mixture to be frozen 
into a water-tight baking powder can, or a small tin pail with 
cover, and stand in large pail or bowl. Pack the ice and salt 
alternately under and around it, using one part salt to three 
parts ice. Remove cover and beat mixture with Dover egg- 
beater until foamy, replace cover and turn can or pail back 
and forth ; remove cover occasionally, scrape the frozen mix- 
ture from side of can and beat thoroughly with fork. The 
mixture will freeze in twenty minutes. When frozen, place 
a narrow strip of cloth, dipped in melted beef fat or lard, 
around the outside of cover to keep out the salt water. Re- 
pack in ice, or ice and salt, and cover well until wanted. 

Serve frozen dishes in sherbet, champagne, or high 
glasses; pass on small plate covered with doily and at the 
side of the plate a small cake, wafer or a few orange straws 
may be added. A rose will add attractiveness. 

For the Diabetic. Sugar must be replaced by sweetina or 
saccharin. It is many times sweeter than sugar but has no 
food value. Note Sugar Substitutes, page 213. 

Ice Cream 

VANILLA ICE CREAM, 298 CALORIES 1 

]/ 2 cup thin cream or % cup y 2 teaspoon vanilla. 

heavy cream and Y\ cup milk. Speck salt. 
VA tablespoons sugar. 

Blend all the ingredients ; when sugar is dissolved, freeze 
in a small pail according to general directions. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM WITH LACTOSE, 2 49I CALORIES 

4 ounces cream {%. pint or 2 ounces milk sugar — about 

Yz cup). 4 level tablespoons. 

2 ounces milk (4 tablespoons). Speck salt. 

Few drops of vanilla. 

1 Calculated with thin cream. 

2 Dr. W. Coleman, American Journal cf Medical Sciences, January, 1916. 



288 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Mix cream, milk and sugar and heat, stirring constantly, 
until the sugar is dissolved. Then flavor, cool and freeze. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM, 34I CALORIES 1 
(Individual Rule.) 
Yz cup thin cream or y cup \y 2 tablespoons sugar, 
heavy cream and % cup milk. 1 tablespoon boiling water. 
% square Walter Baker's 34 teaspoon vanilla, 

chocolate. Speck salt. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, add the boiling water, 
sugar and hot cream. Cool, add vanilla and salt and freeze 
in small pail according to general directions. 

Note : To make a large quantity, double recipe as many 
times as desired. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM, 340 CALORIES 1 
(Individual Rule.) 
]/ 2 cup thin cream or 34 cup V/ 2 tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and 34 cup milk Speck salt. 
1 tablespoon ground coffee. 34 CU P rnilk. 

Mix coffee and milk, put into double boiler and cook 
5 minutes. Strain through cheese-cloth and strainer; add 
sugar, salt and cream. Cool and freeze in small pail accord- 
ing to general directions. 

GRAPE JUICE ICE CREAM, 490 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
y 2 cup thin cream. y cup sugar. 

Y$ cup grape juice. 

Scald one-half cup of the cream and add the sugar. Cool, 
add remainder of cream and the grape juice and freeze ac- 
cording to general directions. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM, 34O CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
y 2 cup thin cream or y> cup strawberries. 

34 cup thick cream and. y, cup 2 tablespoons sugar, 
milk. Speck salt. 

Mash the strawberries with the sugar and allow them to 

Calculated with thin cream. 



ICE CREAM 289 

stand five minutes. Add the cream and milk and freeze in 
small pail according to general directions. 

Note : The berries may be mashed and strained through 
cheese-cloth. 

RASPBERRY ICE CREAM, 347 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yi cup thin cream or Ya cup 2 tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and Yi cup milk. Speck salt. 
Y\ cup raspberries. 

• Mash the raspberries and strain through cheese-cloth. Add 
cream, milk and sugar. Freeze in small pail according to 
general directions. 

PEACH ICE CREAM, 424 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

]/ 2 cup thin cream or Ya cup Ya cup peaches, 
heavy cream and Ya cup milk 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Mix peaches and sugar and press through a potato-ricer 
or sieve. Scald cream and milk. Cool and add peaches and 
sugar. Freeze in small pail according to general directions. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM, 324 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Y2 cup thin cream or Ya cup V/i tablespoons boiling water. 

thick cream and Ya cup milk. Yz teaspoon vanilla. 
2 tablespoons sugar. Speck salt. 

Place the sugar in saucepan and stir constantly until 
melted. Add water and boil until reduced to one and one- 
half tablespoons. Add cream very slowly, vanilla, salt, and 
freeze. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM X0. II, 3982 CALORIES 
(Ten Servings.) 

1 pint milk. 2 eggs. 

1 cup sugar. Speck salt. 

2 tablespoons flour. 1 quart thin cream. 
1 scant cup sugar for caramel. 



2go NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Scald the milk ; mix one cup sugar, flour and salt, add the 
eggs and beat all together until perfectly smooth and light. 
Add the scalded milk gradually, beating until very smooth. 
Cook in double boiler twenty minutes. 

While cooking, prepare caramel. Put the second cup of 
sugar into saute pan and cook until melted and a delicate 
brown ; add the custard gradually, stirring constantly ; strain 
and cool. Add the cream, which has been scalded and 
cooled, and freeze in large freezer. 

Note : This may be used for vanilla ice-cream by omit- 
ting the caramel and using one tablespoon vanilla and enough 
of the second cup of sugar to sweeten. 

MALTED MILK ICE CREAM, 3907 CALORIES 

(Ten Servings.) 

H pound Horlick's Malted White 1 egg. 

Milk. 1 pint thick cream. 

1 cup granulated sugar. 2 ounces chocolate. 

1 quart water. 1 tablespoon vanilla. 

Mix the Malted Milk powder, sugar and boiling water, 
stirring until smooth. Add cream and scraped chocolate and 
cook until chocolate is melted. Add vanilla, cool and freeze. 
When partly frozen add the well-beaten white of egg and 
finish freezing. 

Note: If strawberry or other flavor is desired it may be 
used in place of vanilla. 

JUNKET ICE CREAM, -379 CALORIES 

1 cup thick cream. j4 tablespoon vanilla. 

1 quart rich milk. 1 junket tablet dissolved in 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon told water. 

Heat the milk and sugar to lukewarm. Add the dissolved 
junket and the vanilla. Allow to jelly in warm place and 
then freeze. 



SHERBET ' 291 

FROZEN CUSTARD, 347 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

1 cup hot milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 egg. % teaspoon vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Beat the egg, add the sugar and salt and gradually the 
scalded milk. Cool, add flavoring and freeze. 

HOT COCOA SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM, 965 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 

\y 2 cups water. 2 tablespoons Walter Baker's 

1 cup sugar. cocoa. 

1 tablespoon arrowroot. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Boil the water and sugar together for two minutes ; add 
the arrowroot mixed with a little cold water, stir for a mo- 
ment, then boil until clear. Add the cocoa, which has been 
mixed with a little hot water, and the salt and boil three 
minutes longer. Remove from the fire and add the vanilla. 

DIABETIC ICE CREAM 1 

65 Calories per Ounce. 

1 cup cream. 2 eggs. 

V* cup water. Yz grain saccharin. 

Beat the eggs, add the cream, water and saccharin, 
which has been dissolved in a small amount of liquid. The 
mixture is frozen as any ice cream. 

Sherbet 

LEMON MILK SHERBET, 245 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

V2 cup milk. Juice of ^ lemon. 

3 tablespoons sugar. 1 drop lemon extract. 

Blend all the ingredients and freeze in small pail accord- 
ing to general directions. 

1 "St. Luke's Dietary," St. Luke's Hospital, New York City. 



292 # NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

LEMON MILK SHERBET, NO. II, i960, CALORIES 
(Six Servings.) 
1 quart milk. Juice 2 lemons. 

15^2 cups sugar. y 2 teaspoon lemon extract. 

To the lemon juice add the sugar, milk and extract. 
Freeze immediately in large freezer. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET, 358 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

H cup milk. 14 cup sugar. 

1 cup strawberries. 

Mash the berries and strain. To the juice add sugar and 
milk. Freeze in small pail according to general directions. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET NO. II, 2859 CALORIES 
(Six Servings.) 

1 quart milk. 2 cups sugar. 

2 quarts strawberries. 

Mash the berries and strain. Add sugar and milk. Freeze 
in large freezer. 

CLAM SHERBET, 1 29 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

24 cup milk. Speck paprika. 

l /4 cup clam broth. 

Blend and freeze according to general rule. Serve in 
small, dainty glasses with a teaspoon of unsweetened whipped 
cream on top. The milk and clam taken in this way are 
often more acceptable to the patient than when served in 
liquid form. 

Note : The paprika may be omitted if condiments are not 
desirable. 

MALTED MILK SHERBET, 2 1 79 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 

V 2 pound Horlick's Malted 1 tablespoon vanilla. 

Milk. 2 ounces chocolate. 

1 cup granulated sugar. White 1 egg. 

3 pints water. 



ICES 293 

Make a smooth paste of the malted milk powder and a 
little of the water, then add the rest of the water gradually, 
the sugar, the vanilla and the chocolate grated. Freeze. 
When partly frozen, add the well-beaten white of tgg and 
finish freezing. 

GRAPE SHERBET, 2> 2 74 CALORIES 

(Ten Servings.) 

3 cups grape juice. 3 cups sugar. 

1 quart water. Whites 2 eggs. 

Blend the grape juice, water and sugar. Freeze partially. 
Beat the whites of eggs lightly, add two tablespoons pow- 
dered sugar ; add to sherbet and continue freezing until hard. 
Remove dasher and allow it to stand for one hour to ripen. 
Pack carefully. 

GRAPE AMBROSIA, 5258 CALORIES 
(Twelve Servings.) 

1 quart milk. 1 pint grape juice. 

2 quarts water. 1 can grated pineapple. 
3y 2 cups sugar. Juice 3 lemons. 
Whites 4 eggs. 

Mix together milk, water, sugar and fruit and freeze par- 
tially. Add the well-beaten whites of eggs and continue 
freezing until hard. 

Ices 

ORANGE ICE, 326 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

y 2 cup water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Juice \ l / 2 oranges. 34 cup sugar. 

Mix together all the ingredients and freeze in small pail, 
according to general directions. 

ORANGE ICE NO. II, IO23 CALORIES 
(Four Servings.) 
2 tablespoons granulated gela- 1 cup sugar. 

tin. 1 cup orange juice. 

y 2 cup cold water. Juice 1 lemon. 

V/2 cups boiling water. 



294 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Soak gelatin in the cold water twenty minutes ; add boil- 
ing water ; when gelatin is dissolved add the sugar, orange 
and lemon juice. Cool, strain and freeze in large freezer. 

ORANGE ICE XO. Ill, 1 922 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 

1 pint orange juice. Grated rind 1 orange. 

Juice 2 lemons. 1 quart water. 

1 pint sugar. 

Boil the water and sugar twenty minutes ; add fruit juice 
and rind of orange. Cool, strain and freeze in large freezer. 

Note : Do not use orange rind if it will interfere me- 
dicinally. 

LEMON ICE, 225 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Y> cup water. 4 tablespoons sugar. 

Juice 1 lemon. 

Mix all the ingredients and freeze in small pail according 
to general directions. 

FRUIT ICE. 519 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

y 2 banana. Juice V 2 lemon. 

Yz cup strawberries. y 2 cup cold water. 

Juice y 2 orange. y 2 cup sugar. 

Put the fruit into a coarse strainer or a potato-ricer and 
rub it through into a large bowl. Pour the cold water 
through the strainer. Add the sugar, stir well and freeze 
according to general directions. 

PIXEAPPLE ICE, 258 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yz cup grated pineapple. y 2 cup water. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Boil the water and sugar together about three minutes ; 
add pineapple and lemon juice. Cool, strain and freeze ac- 
cording to general directions. 



ICES 295 

GRAPE FRAPPE, 2 1 77 CALLORIES 

(Six Servings.) 

1 pint grape juice. 1 pint water. 

Juice 1 lemon. 2 cups sugar. 

Boil the water and sugar together for five minutes; cool 
and add the grape and lemon juice. Freeze to the con- 
sistency of a mush. Serve in tall glasses with sweetened 
whipped cream piled high on top. 

CLAM FRAPPE 

(Individual Rule.) 

94 cup cold water. Speck paprika. 

Ya cup clam broth. 

Blend and freeze according to general directions, to the 
consistency of a soft water ice. Serve in small punch glasses 
or champagne glasses, with a teaspoon of unsweetened 
whipped cream on top. Delicious to serve for dinner in 
place of shellfish. 

SCALPICOX OF FRUIT 

A delicious scalpicon is made by cutting all kinds of fresh 
fruits into small pieces and flavoring with wine or lemon 
juice and sugar. Put into serving dish with orange or lemon 
ice on top. Serve individually in champagne glasses on a 
small plate with doily, with a single rose or other flower to 
correspond w T ith color of ice. 

ORANGE STRAWS 

Peel the orange or lemon lengthwise ; cut into long, narrow 
strips, about one- fourth of an inch wide. Put into saucepan 
and cover with cold water, bring to the boiling point and 
pour off the water; repeat this process five or six times, or 
until the bitter taste of peel is extracted. Drain thoroughly 
and cover with granulated sugar. Cook until syrup is thick 
and hardens in cold water. Then roll straws in granulated 
sugar and cool. Serve with orange ice, etc., or as a bon-bon. 



296 



NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 



QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 



1. Name five easily digested desserts made with milk and eggs. 

2. What is a good proportion of liquid to tgg for soft custard? 
For baked custard? 

3. What is gained by using lactose in desserts? 

4. What do you understand by the term "diabetic custard"? 

5. How would you serve a custard with chocolate sauce? 

6. What is junket? How is it. made? 

7. What variations of plain custard can you suggest? 

8. On what principle is the cooking of starchy desserts based? 

9. What is gelatin? Discuss its food value and use in the diet. 

10. Discuss the value of frozen desserts. What caution must be 
observed in serving them? 

11. What principle is involved in freezing mixtures? 

12. How would you freeze a small amount of material? 



CHAPTER XI 
BEVERAGES 

ACID ALBU M I NOUS ST ARC H Y M I SCELL AXEOUS BEVERAGES, 

INCLUDING TEA, COFFEE, CHOCOLATE, COCOA, AND SPECIAL 
NON-NUTRITIVE BEVERAGES. 

Beverages serve primarily to relieve thirst. The universal 
beverage is water. 1 Other beverages answer the same pur- 
pose, because their chief constituent is water. They are also 
taken for their temperature, cold or hot, for their flavor, 
which helps to arouse or appease the appetite, or for their 
stimulating properties. Usually they have little or no energy 
value, but when made with milk, eggs, cocoa, chocolate or 
other highly nutritive materials, they become a valuable 
means of administering food in a liquid form. 

Acid Beverages 

Beverages made from fruit juices are cooling and refresh- 
ing and hence especially grateful to fever patients. They 
are valuable for the organic acids, mineral matter, sugar and 
vitamines which they contain. Some of them, as lemonade 
and orangeade, have an added value in their diuretic and 
diaphoretic action. The antiscorbutic property of fruits is 
discussed on page 22. The organic acids are useful in con- 
stipation, as they stimulate peristaltic action. These acids 
vary with the kind of fruit ; thus, apples contain malic acid, 
lemons, citric acid, grapes, tartaric acid, etc. In the body 
these are changed to carbonates, which preserve the alka- 
linity of the blood. Ripe pineapple juice contains a ferment 
capable of digesting proteins. 

1 See Water, page 19. 

297 



298 BEVERAGES 

Wash lemons and oranges and in using the juice remove 
the seeds, as they give a bitter taste. When the rind of lemon 
or orange is undesirable medicinally it should not be used. 

Serve acid beverages daintily in glasses or sherbet cups 
(three-fourths filled), on small tray or plate, covered with 
doily, and add a few wafer crackers, or a single flower. 

Whenever cold water is to be used instead of very hot or 
boiling water in preparing drinks, it is preferable to use 
"sugar syrup" for sweetening in place of sugar, which re- 
quires time for solution. 

As the acidity of fruit varies considerably with the kind, 
this fact must be borne in mind while preparing the follow- 
ing recipes, otherwise too much sugar may be added. 

For the Diabetic — In sweetening acid beverages, sugar 
must be replaced by sweetina or saccharin. It is many times 
sweeter than sugar but it has no food value. Note Sugar 
Substitutes, page 213. 

SUGAR SYRUP, 420 CALORIES 
FOR SWEETENING ACID BEVERAGES 

X A cup of sugar. y 2 cup of boiling water. 

Mix the sugar and water and stir until the sugar is dis- 
solved. Boil slowly, without stirring, for fifteen minutes ; 
cool slightly and bottle. 

Sugar syrup may be used for sweetening acid beverages 
when cold water is used in place of boiling water. 

LEMONADE NO. I, 69 CALORIES 

Juice 1 lemon or 1 tablespoon sugar or sugar 

3 tablespoons lemon juice. syrup to taste. 

1 cup cold water. 

Dissolve the sugar in lemon juice; add cold water and a 
little ice if desired. 

LEMONADE NO. II, 121 CALORIES 

1 lemon. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

34 cup boiling water. K thin slice lemon. 

Wash and wipe lemon ; cut a very thin slice from middle. 



ACID BEVERAGES 299 

Squeeze juice into bowl, keeping back the seeds, add the 
sugar and boiling water ; cover, and put on ice to cool. 
Strain and pour into a glass or sherbet cup. 

Cut half the slice of lemon into two pieces, and use as 
garnish in glass, or a few berries or slice of orange may be 
used. 

Note : The quantity of sugar used depends upon the 
acidity of fruit. For fruit lemonade add fresh fruit of all 
kinds to strong lemonade, using boiling water for the bev- 
erage ; cool, and chill on ice. 

LACTOSE LEMONADE, 1 465 CALORIES 

4 ounces of milk sugar (about 8 tablespoons) 
7 ounces of cold water (14 tablespoons) 
2 tablespoons of lemon juice (or to taste) 

Boil the sugar and water for two minutes, add lemon juice 
to taste, strain, and cool. If not sweet enough add i or 2 
tablespoons cane sugar. 

SODA OR EFFERVESCENT LEMONADE, 121 CALORIES 2 

Juice of 1 lemon. y A cup of cold water. 

1 or 2 tablespoons sugar. J4 teaspoon soda, free from 

lumps. 

Prepare the lemonade to taste, cool, add the soda, stir 
thoroughly and drink while effervescing. 

Note : Put glass on plate before soda is added. Water and 
soda may be omitted and carbonated water substituted. 

IRISH MOSS LEMONADE, .23 CALORIES 3 

14 cup Irish moss. 4 tablespoons lemon juice. 

2 cups cold water. Sugar. 

Pick over and wash the moss and soak 15 minutes. 
Drain and add the cold water; cook in top of double boiler 
about 20 minutes or until syrupy. If it becomes too thick, 

J Dr. W. Coleman, American Journal of Medical Sciences, January, 1912. 

2 Calculated with two tablespoons sugar. 

3 Without sugar. 



300 BEVERAGES 

add hot water. Strain, add the lemon juice and sugar to 
taste. Reheat and serve hot. 

Excellent for sore throat and cold on the lungs, or any 
inflammation of the mucuous membrane. 

EGG LEMONADE 

See "Albuminous Beverages" for recipe. Page 310. 

ORANGEADE, IJJ CALORIES 

1 scur orange. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

l / 2 cup boiling water. l / 2 slice orange. 

Prepare as for lemonade No. 11. If orange is not very 
acid, add a little lemon juice or use less sugar. 

ORANGEADE NO. II, 73 CALORIES 

Put two tablespoons of crushed ice in dainty glasses and 
pour the juice of one orange over it. Sweeten if desired. 

FRUITADE, I56 CALORIES 

*4 cup grated pineapple. 1 cup boiling* water. 

Juice V 2 lemon. Sugar. 

Juice y 2 orange. 

Prepare fruit. Add the boiling water and one tablespoon 

sugar ; allow to stand until cool. Add more water or sugar 

if necessary. Strain and serve cold. 

LEMON WHEY 

1 cup hot milk. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

2 teaspoons sugar. 

Heat the milk in a small saucepan over hot water, or -in a 
double-boiler. Add the lemon juice. Cook without stirring 
until the whey separates. Strain through double cheese-cloth, 
and add the sugar. Serve hot or cold. Garnish with small 
pieces or slice of lemon. 

WINE WHEY 
1 cup sweet milk. l A cup sherry wine. 

Heat the milk to boiling point, add the wine, and cook 



ACID BEVERAGES 301 

without stirring until the milk separates. Strain through a 
double cheese-cloth, and serve hot or cold. 

ACID PHOSPHATE 

Horsford's Acid Phosphate is a solution of the phosphates 
of lime, magnesia, potash and iron with phosphoric acid, 
in such form as to be readily assimilated by the system. It 
is thus a true nerve and tissue food. 

1 teaspoon Horsford's Acid 1 cup hot or cold water. 

Phosphate. Sugar. 

Mix the Acid Phosphate with the water and sweeten with 
sugar if desired. 

If the above should seem too strong or be found too 
stimulating, use one-half teaspoon of the Acid Phosphate. 

Xote : Horsford's Acid Phosphate may be substituted for 
lemon juice in any of the acid drinks. 

ACID PHOSPHATE WHEY 

1 cup hot milk. 1 teaspoon Horsford's 

2 teaspoons sugar. Acid Phosphate. 

Heat the milk in a small saucepan over hot water or in 
a double boiler. Add the Acid Phosphate. Cook without 
stirring until the whey separates. Strain through cheese- 
cloth and add the sugar. If more acid is desired, add two 
or three drops of Horsford's Acid Phosphate. Serve hot or 
cold. 

CREAM OF TARTAR DRINK 

1 or I/2 teaspoons cream of Lemon, 
tartar. Sugar. 

1 pint boiling water. 

Dissolve the cream of tartar in the boiling water and 
flavor with lemon and sugar. When cold strain. Take as a 
refrigerant drink and diuretic. 



302 BEVERAGES 

IMPERIAL DRINK 1 

Potassium bitartrate ( 6.0) 5 iss 

Sugar ( 16.0) 3 ss 

Lemon peel, cut or grated ( 16.0) 5 ss 

Boiling water (1000.0) ij 

MALTED MILK AND CURRANT JELLY, 85 CALORIES 

1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted 1 tablespoon currant jelly. 

Milk. 24 cup cold water. 

% cup boiling water. Cracked ice. 

Mix the malted milk powder with a little of the boiling 
water to make a smooth paste, add the jelly and the rest of 
the water and stir till the jelly is dissolved. Add the cold 
water and ice, strain and serve daintily in glass or sherbet 
cup, partly filled, on small plate with doily. 

MALTED MILK WITH WINE, 84 CALORIES 

1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted 1 teaspoon port or sherry wine. 

Milk. 1 teaspoon sugar. 

1 cup hot water. 

Mix the malted milk powder with enough of the hot water 
to make a smooth paste, then add gradually the rest of the 
hot water, the wine, and sugar if desired. 

JELLY AND ICE 

With a large needle or pin or an ice-scraper chip half a cup 
of ice into bits as large as a pea. Mix with it about the same 
quantity of lemon, currant, blackberry or barberry jelly. 
Very refreshing in fevers. Be sure ice is perfectly pure. 

GRAPE WATER, 1 35 CALORIES 2 

4 tablespoons grape jelly. 14 cup cold water. 

y 2 cup boiling water. Lemon juice and sugar. 

Dissolve the jelly in the boiling water, then add the cold 
water. Season to taste and serve ice cold. 

1 "St. Luke's Dietary," St. Luke's Hospital, New York City. 
2 Without lemon juice or sugar. 



ACID BEVERAGES 303 

CURRANT WATER, IOO-I25 CALORIES 1 

% cup currant juice or y 2 cup cold water. 

4 tablespoons currant jelly. Lemon juice and sugar. 

y 2 cup boiling water. 

Dissolve the jelly in the boiling water (put over heat a 
few moments if it does not dissolve quickly). When dis- 
solved add the cold water, sweeten to taste and add a little 
lemon juice if desired. Serve cold. 

APPLE WATER 

1 sour apple. Lemon juice. 

1 cup boiling water. Sugar. 

Wipe a rosy-cheeked sour apple and without paring it 
cut it into small pieces. Add the boiling water and one table- 
spoon sugar. Cover and let stand till cold, then strain and 
add lemon juice and sugar to taste. Serve cold. 

Note : Dried apple may be substituted, or two baked 
apples. 

RHUBARB WATER 

1 stalk rhubarb. Lemon juice. 

1 cup boiling water. Sugar. 

Wash and wipe the rhubarb and cut into thin slices, leav- 
ing the skin on. Add the boiling water and one tablespoon 
sugar. Cover and let stand till cold. Strain, add lemon juice 
and sugar to taste and serve cold. 

TAMARIND MALTED MILK, 122 CALORIES 

2 tablespoons Horlick's Malted *4 cup hot water. 
Milk. l / 2 cup cold water. 

1 tablespoon tamarinds. Cracked ice. 

Make a smooth paste of the malted milk powder and hot 
water, add preserved tamarinds and the cold water. Strain 
and chill, or add pure cracked ice. 

GRAPE JUICE GRAPE LEMONADE 

(\ l / 2 cups grape juice=120 Calories) 
Partially fill a small glass with crushed ice, add grape 
juice and serve. 



304 BEVERAGES 

Many prefer grape juice diluted. Any good plain or 
charged water is acceptable, using at least half grape juice 
and serve cold. Grape juice with an equal quantity of water 
may be served hot (do not boil) with sugar and lemon juice 
to taste. 

For grape lemonade add one-fourth cup of grape juice to 
one cup of rather sweet lemonade. 

GRAPE PUNCH, I444 CALORIES 

Juice of three lemons and one orange, one pint of grape 
juice, one quart water and one cup sugar. Serve cold. 

TEA PUNCH 

Few beverages find readier favor during the hot weather 
than tea punch. To make it, pour boiling lemonade, sweet- 
ened to taste, over the tea leaves, and allow the liquid to 
stand until cold. Then strain and serve in tall glasses, with 
shaved ice and slices of lemon. 

FRUIT PUNCH, 2/13 CALORIES 
(3 Quarts.) 

2 large teaspoons tea. 3 oranges. 

2 quarts boiling water. 1 pineapple. 

1 pound lump sugar. 5 bananas. 

8 lemons. 1 pint strawberries. 

Steep the tea in the boiling water for five minutes, strain 
and add the sugar, stirring until thoroughly dissolved. Grate 
the rind of the lemons and extract all the juice. Cut the 
oranges into slices, shred the pineapple, slice the bananas 
very thin and hull the strawberries. When the tea is cold 
add all the fruit and let stand in the refrigerator for several 
hours. Place a cube of ice in the punch-bowl, pour the mix- 
ture around it, and when well chilled serve in punch glasses. 
If desired, one cup of Maraschino cherries may be added. 

To get the best results from the pineapple, pare and re- 
move the eyes, tear apart with a silver knife and fork, reject 






ALBUMINOUS BEVERAGES 305 

the core, sprinkle with sugar and let stand on ice for twelve 
hours. 

While fresh fruits are always preferable, canned berries 
and pineapples may be substituted. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI PUNCH, 2984 CALORIES 

(3 Quarts.) 

2 quarts water. 2 tangerine oranges. 

1 pound sugar. 4 slices pineapple. 

2 lemons 1 banana. 

4 oranges. 1 pint Maraschino cherries. 

2 dozen Malaga grapes. 

Boil the water and sugar together for five minutes. Add 
the grated rind of two lemons and four oranges, and continue 
boiling for ten minutes longer. Strain the syrup through 
cheese-cloth . and add one quart of cold water. Extract the 
juice from the lemons and oranges, strain and mix with two 
dozen Malaga grapes cut in half and seeded, the tangerine 
oranges sliced, the pineapple shredded, the banana cut in 
slices and one pint bottle of Maraschino cherries with their 
liquor. Add the fruit to the syrup, chill and serve same as 
Fruit Punch. 

Albuminous Beverages 

Albuminous or albuminized beverages are combinations of 
e gg w ith water, milk, fruit juices and other fluids. 

The yolk of egg contains about thirty per cent, of fat and 
has a much higher fuel value than the white (see table on 
following page). In cases where the patient's ability to digest 
fat is disturbed, egg yolk should be given with caution. The 
combination of egg, milk and sugar with alcohol which con- 
stitutes egg-nog may produce nausea and vomiting in a feeble 
stomach, especially in fever. Egg-nog is very nutritious and 
is extensively prescribed in certain non-febrile diseases, 
especially for forced feeding in phthisis and melancholia. 

Albuminous drinks are most easily prepared cold. When 
a hot liquid is used it must be poured very slowly into the 



306 BEVERAGES 

well-beaten egg, stirring constantly, so that lumps of coagu- 
lated albumin do not form. 

For the Diabetic — In sweetening albuminous beverages 
sugar must be replaced by sweetina or saccharin. It is many 
times sweeter than sugar but it has no food value. Note 
Sugar Substitutes, page 213. 

Energy Value of an Egg 1 

Calories 

1 egg (with shell) average size 74 

1 egg (without shell) average size 74 

1 white of egg average size 17 

1 yolk of egg average size 60 

PLAIN ALBUMIN, 1 7 CALORIES 1 

White 1 egg. Salt. 

Beat the white slightly, allow it to stand in a cold place 
until the liquid separates from the foam. Remove the foam 
and serve the liquid albumin. Salt the mixture if desired. 

Note: Mix white of one egg (unbeaten) with equal quan- 
tity of cold water, a large pinch of salt and ten drops, or 
more, of whiskey. Serve by teaspoonful or tablespoonful 
alternately with a "heart stimulant" when other food cannot 
be taken. A patient can live on this mixture for several days 
without other food. 

ALBUMIN WATER (FOR INFANTS ), 3 1 CALORIES 

The white of one fresh egg, half a pint of cold water, 
pinch of salt, teaspoonful of brandy. This should be shaken 
thoroughly and fed cold either with a spoon or from a 
bottle. It is useful in cases of vomiting and can sometimes 
be retained by a very irritable stomach. — (Holt.) 

ALBUMIN WATER ( FOR INFANTS ), 1 7 CALORIES 

The white of one fresh egg is dissolved in eight ounces 
or a pint of water which has been boiled and cooled. 
Albumin water is utilized chiefly in cases of acute stomach 

1 Range from 60 to 100 calories according to size of egg. 



ALBUMINOUS BEVERAGES 307 

and intestinal disorders in which some easily assimilated 
food is needed. — (Koplik.) 

ALBUMINIZED WATER, 36 CALORIES 

White 1 egg. 1 teaspoon sugar. 

Yz cup cold water. 1 teaspoon lemon juice, 

(boiled and chilled). 

Place all ingredients in a lemonade shaker or a glass 
fruit jar with air tight cover and rubber ring. Shake until 
thoroughly blended. Strain and serve cold in a dainty glass. 
A few grains of salt may be added if desired. If set on ice 
to cool shake before serving. 

ALBUMINIZED MILK, 102 CALORIES 

White 1 egg. x /% cup lime water or 

y 2 cup milk. Speck salt. 

Blend as for "Albuminized Water." May omit lime water 
and serve plain seasoned with salt. 

ALBUMINIZED CLAM WATER, IJ CALORIES 

White 1 egg. Clam broth to taste. 

Y$ cup cold water. 

Place all ingredients in a lemonade shaker or a glass 
fruit jar with air tight cover and rubber ring. Shake until 
thoroughly blended. Strain and serve cold in a dainty glass. 

Milk may be substituted for water. This drink will often 
be retained when other nourishment is rejected. 

ALBUMINIZED ORANGE JUICE, I42 CALORIES 1 

White 1 egg. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

Juice 1 orange. Lemon juice if desired. 

Place all ingredients in a lemonade shaker or a glass 
fruit jar with air tight cover and rubber ring. Shake until 
thoroughly blended. Strain and serve cold in a dainty glass. 

1 Without lemon juice. 



308 BEVERAGES 

ALBUMINIZED SHERRY, 1 2J CALORIES 

White 1 egg. Sugar. 

24 tablespoon sherry. 

Beat the white very stiff. Continue to beat while adding 
the wine and sugar slowly. Serve cold in a dainty glass. 

Two tablespoons of grape juice may be substituted for 
the wine. 

EGG BROTH, 323 CALORIES 

Yolk 1 egg. 1 cup hot milk. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon brandy. 

Speck salt. 

Beat egg, add sugar and salt. Pour the hot milk on care- 
fully and flavor. Wine may be substituted for brandy or 
stimulants may be omitted. 

Note : Dried and rolled bread crumbs may be added if 
desired. The whole egg may be used. Hot water, broth or 
coffee, may be substituted for the milk ; nutmeg may be sub- 
stituted for the stimulant. 

EGG-NOG NO. I, 240 CALORIES 2 

1 egg. 24 cup milk. 

Speck salt. V/2 tablespoon w : ne or 

24 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon brandy (or less). 

Beat the egg, add the sugar and salt; blend thoroughly, 
add the milk and liquor. Serve immediately. 

Note: Have eggs and milk chilled before blending. A 
grating of nutmeg may be substituted for the stimulant. A 
lemonade shaker may be used for the blending. 

EGG-NOG NO. II, 24O CALORIES 2 

1 egg. 24 cup milk. 

24 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon brandy (or less). 

Speck salt. 

Separate egg. Beat yolk, add sugar and salt and beat until 

1 Without sugar. 

2 Without liquor. 



ALBUMINOUS BEVERAGES 309 

creamy. Add the milk and brandy. Beat the white till 
foamy (not stiff and dry) and fold it in lightly. Serve im- 
mediately. 

JUNKET EGG-NOG, 295 CALORIES 1 

1 egg. 2 teaspoons rum, brandy or 

1 cup milk. wine. 

1 tablespoon sugar. J / 2 Junket Tablet. 

Beat white and yolk of egg separately, very light ; blend 
the two. Add the sugar dissolved in the rum. Heat the 
milk lukewarm, stir into the egg mixture and add quickly 
the tablet dissolved in cold water. Pour into small warm 
glasses and sprinkle grated nutmeg over the top. Stand in 
warm room undisturbed until firm and then put on ice to 
cool. This can be retained by the most delicate stomach. 

BEEF EGG-NOG, 1 87 CALORIES 

1 egg. y 2 cup hot beef broth. 

Speck salt. 1 tablespoon brandy. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 

Beat the egg slightly; add the salt and sugar ; add the hot 
broth gradually ; add brandy and strain. Sugar and brandy 
may be omitted if preferred. 

COFFEE EGG-NOG, 1 85 CALORIES 2 

1 egg. V 2 scant cup milk or cream. 

V/2 teaspoon sugar. ]/ 2 scant cup strong coffee. 

Chill ingredients and blend as for Egg-nog No. n. 

EGG AND RUM, 319 CALORIES 

Famous in the Treatment of Phthisis 

1 cup fresh milk. Speck salt. 

Yolk 1 egg. Few grains nutmeg. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon rum. 

Beat yolk, add sugar, salt and nutmeg; add milk and rum. 
Note: For consumptives, taken at about 6 a. m., this often 

1 Without liquor. 
^Calculated with milk. 



310 BEVERAGES 

prevents the exhausting sweats which accompany the morn- 
ing doze. Also may be given to a patient before dressing to 
prevent exhaustion. 

EGG AND BRANDY, 390 CALORIES 1 

3 eggs. 4 tablespoons brandy. 

4 tablespoons cold wafer. Sugar. 
Nutmeg. 

Beat the eggs, add cold water, brandy and sweeten to taste. 
A little nutmeg may be added. Give a tablespoonful at a 
time. 

EGG AND WINE, 1 25 CALORIES 1 

1 egg. 1 wineglass sherry. 

Yz cup cold water. Nutmeg. 

Sugar. 

Beat the egg. Heat the water and wine together, but do 
not boil ; pour over the egg, stirring constantly ; flavor with 
sugar and nutmeg. 

EGG LEMONADE, 189 CALORIES 

1 egg. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 cup cold water. 

Beat the egg thoroughly, add the sugar and lemon juice ; 
pour in the water gradually, stirring until smooth and well 
mixed. Strain and serve. Two tablespoons of sherry or port 
may be added if desired. 

MALTED MILK AND EGG, 1 35 CALORIES 

1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted 20 drops acid phosphate. 

Milk. 1 tablespoon crushed ice. 

1 tablespoon crushed fruit. 3 A cup ice water. 
1 egg. 

Mix the malted milk powder, crushed fruit and egg and 
beat five minutes. Add the phosphate and crushed ice, blend- 

1 Without sugar. 



STARCHY BEVERAGES 311 

ing thoroughly. Strain and add ice water or cold carbonated 
water, and a grating of nutmeg to flavor. 

stokes' mixture 

"2 egg yolks, 50 c.c. of brandy, 120 c.c. of aqua aurantii 
florum (sugar or syrup enough to sweeten), has consider- 
able nutritive as well as stimulative value and is eligible 
for use when such a combination is indicated." 

GRAPE YOLK, 1 56 CALORIES 

1 egg. Speck salt. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 2 tablespoons grape juice. 

Separate egg. Beat yolk, add sugar and stand aside while 
the white is thoroughly whipped. Add the grape juice to the 
yolk and pour this over the whipped white, blending care- 
fully. Serve cold. Have all ingredients chilled before blend- 
ing. 

MULLED WINE, 282 CALORIES 1 

1 ounce stick cinnamon. J / 2 cup sherry, port, or claret 

A slight grating nutmeg. wine. 

I/2 cup boiling water. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 egg. 

Put the spices into top of a double boiler with the water. 
Cover and cook over hot water ten minutes. Add wine to the 
spiced water and bring to the boiling point. Beat the egg 
to a stiff froth, add sugar and pour on the mulled wine and 
beat well. Serve at once. 

Starchy Beverages 

Starchy drinks consist of cereals or cereal products, 
usually in the proportion of one tablespoon of the whole 
grain to one pint of water or one tablespoon of the flour of 
grain to one pint of water, cooked thoroughly and strained 
before serving. 

1 With sherry. 



312 BEVERAGES 

Arrowroot, cornstarch, tapioca, rice and rice flour are 
nearly pure starch. Oats, barley and wheat in forms which 
include the whole grains contain besides starch some protein 
and fat, as well as valuable mineral matter, especially phos- 
phorus, iron, and calcium salts. 1 In starchy drinks these in- 
gredients are necessarily present in small amounts, hence 
they have little food value 2 unless milk or other highly nu- 
tritive material is added. Such drinks are of value when only 
a small quantity of nutriment can be taken. 

Principles of Cooking. — As the chief ingredient is starch, 
long cooking is necessary in water at a high temperature 
(212 ). This softens the cellulose and breaks open the 
starch grains, so that they can be very readily digested. 
Time of cooking should be conscientiously kept by the clock. 

Digestion. — The action of ptyalin is very rapid and if 
these drinks are sipped slowly, so as to be thoroughly mixed 
with saliva, a considerable portion of starch may be changed 
to sugar before reaching the intestines. 

BARLEY WATER 3 (FOR INFANTS), ff CALORIES 

1 tablespoon barley flour. 1^4 cups boiling water. 

% cup cold water. Pinch of salt. 

Blend flour and cold water to make a smooth paste, then 
pour it into the briskly boiling salted water, stirring con- 
stantly. After the mixture has boiled, place it in a double 
boiler and cook at least twenty minutes to one-half hour and 
then strain through a fine wire strainer or muslin. Enough 
water should then be added to bring the whole up to one pint. 

Note : Some authorities say not to salt barley water for 
the baby under six months of age. 

PEARL BARLEY WATER 3 (FOR INFANTS), 54 CALORIES 

1 tablespoon pearl barley. Pinch of salt. 

1 pint cold water. 

1 See Mineral Matter, p. 17. 

2 Calculations for starchy beverages in following recipes are approximate as 
there is no way of calculating exactly. The question here is how many calories 
are left in water after straining. 

3 Modified from Dr. L. Emmett Holt, "The Care and Feeding of Children," 
D. Appleton, New York City. 



STARCHY BEVERAGES 313 

Wash barley, add the cold water and let soak five hours 
or over night. Add a pinch of salt and boil quickly over 
direct heat for four hours, adding water from time to time 
to keep the quantity up to one pint. Then strain through 
muslin. 

Note : Some authorities say not to salt barley water for 
the baby under six months of age. Barley water is an 
astringent or demulcent drink used to reduce laxative con- 
dition. For the adult, cream or milk and salt may be added 
or lemon juice and sugar. 

RICE, WHEAT OR OAT WATER 

These are made from rice, wheat, or oat flour exactly as 
barley water as above described. They are also made from 
the grain, using the same proportions and directions for 
Pearl Barley Water. 

RICE WATER, l6o CALORIES 

3 tablespoons rice. 1 tablespoon seeded raisins. 

1 pint boiling water. Sugar or salt. 

Wash rice, put in sauce pan with water and raisins ; boil 
gently for one hour. Strain, reheat and dilute with boiling 
water or hot milk to desired consistency. Season with salt 
or sugar and serve hot or cold. Do not use raisins in bowel 
trouble. 

Note : Omit raisins if desired and serve plain or if allowed 
cinnamon may be cooked with the rice. This will assist in 
reducing a laxative condition. For variety or extra nutri- 
ment milk may be substituted for the water. 

TOAST WATER, 352 CALORIES 

1 cup stale bread toasted. Salt 

1 cup boiling water. 

Slice bread thin and cut into inch squares. Dry thor- 
oughly in oven until crisp and a delicate brown. Measure 
and break into crumbs; add the water and let it stand one 



314 BEVERAGES 

hour. Rub through a fine strainer, season and serve hot or 
cold. The nourishment of the bread is easily absorbed in 
this way and is valuable in cases of fever or extreme nausea. 
Note : Milk or cream and sugar may be added. 

CRUST COFFEE 

Take some pieces and crusts of brown bread and dry them 
in a slow oven until thoroughly hard and crisp. Place in a 
mortar and pound or roll. Pour boiling water over and let 
soak for about fifteen minutes. This when strained carefully 
is very acceptable to invalids who are tired of the ordinary 
drinks, such as lemonade, etc. 

CRACKER PANADA, IOO CALORIES 1 

4 hard crackers. Sugar. 

1 quart water. 

Break crackers into pieces and bake quite brown; add 
water and boil fifteen minutes. Allow to stand three or four 
minutes ; strain off the liquid through a fine wire sieve ; 
season with salt and a little sugar. This is a nourishing bev- 
erage for infants who are teething and with the addition of 
a little wine and nutmeg is often prescribed for invalids re- 
covering from a fever. 

BREAD PANADA, 105 CALORIES 

VA cups water. % cup white wine. _ 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

2 tablespoons stale white bread Nutmeg. 

crumbs. 

Put water and sugar on to cook. Just before it commences 
to boil add the bread crumbs; stir well and let it boil three 
or four minutes. Add the wine, lemon and a grating of nut- 
meg; let it boil up once, remove from fire and keep closely 
covered until wanted for use. 

1 Without sugar. 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 315 

Miscellaneous Beverages 

TEA COFFEE CHOCOLATE COCOA AND SPECIAL NON- 

XUTRITIVE BEVERAGES 

Tea 

Source. — The tea of commerce is prepared from the leaves 
of a shrub cultivated for this purpose in China, Japan, India, 
Ceylon and other portions of Southern and Eastern Asia. 

Classes of Tea. — There are two great classes of tea, the 
green and the black. The difference lies in the mode of 
preparation. Green teas are quickly dried and fired ; black 
teas are allowed to ferment a few hours before drying and 
firing. 

Active Principles of Tea. — The principal constituents of 
tea are caffein, tannic acid and a volatile oil. 

Its flavor is due to the volatile oil ; its stimulating prop- 
erties to the caffein. Tannic acid is a soluble, bitter sub- 
stance which has a retarding effect on digestion. 

When tea leaves are placed in boiling water caffein is ex- 
tracted very rapidly. Tannic acid is less soluble and it is 
therefore possible to make tea with little of this principle by 
letting the water stand on the leaves only a short time. In 
practice, the freshly boiled water is poured on the leaves 
which should then stand from three to five minutes. Tea 
should never be boiled. 

The water should be soft, as lime in hard water tends to 
make tannin dissolve more freely. Green or mixed tea is 
more powerful than black tea. 

Effects of Tea. — Tea is mildly stimulating and hence re- 
freshing, as it removes the sense of bodily fatigue, but the 
tannic acid retards the digestive action of the saliva and gas- 
tric juice and tends to produce constipation. Tea is there- 
fore not suitable for persons suffering from gastric disorders. 
The caffein is over-stimulating to the nervous system of 
many persons, causing restlessness, sleeplessness and mus- 
cular tremors. It should not be given to children nor to 



3 i6 BEVERAGES 

adults with a tendency to nervousness. If you wish to avoid 
the retarding effect of tea on salivary digestion, direct the 
patient not to sip the beverage with the meal but to eat first 
and drink afterward ; in this way time is given for the saliva 
to perform its intended functions. 

For the Diabetic — In sweetening beverages sugar must 
be replaced by sweetina or saccharin. It is many times 
sweeter than sugar but it has no food value. Note Sugar 
Substitutes, page 213. Coffee may be poured into a lightly 
beaten tgg or yolk, or one teaspoon butter, or heavy cream. 

Coffee 

Source. — This beverage is prepared from the seeds of the 
coffee tree,- caffca arabica, which grows in many warm 
countries though originally found in Arabia. The coffee 
berry is about the color and size of a ripe cherry and con- 
tains two seeds placed face to face. 

Active Principles of Coffee. — The active principles of cof- 
fee are essentially the same as those in tea. By the roasting 
process a volatile oil is liberated (called caffeol) to which the 
aroma is due. The caffein is chemically the same as in tea 
and according to Hutchison (p. 310) a cup of black coffee 
contains about as large a quantity of caffein and tannic acid 
as a cup of tea. 

Effects of Coffee. — Compared with tea, coffee has only a 
slight retarding influence on salivary digestion, but an 
equally detrimental effect on gastric digestion. 

As a stimulant it affects more directly the central nervous 
system ; the heart action is considerably increased in rate 
as well as strength. Indirectly, this results in an increased 
activity of the kidneys. The respiration is deepened and the 
cerebral centers excited. For this reason it often proves use- 
ful in cases of opium and alcoholic poisoning. In some per- 
sons these effects are very mild; in others, they are severe, 
producing nervousness and insomnia, and coffee should then 
be withheld. It removes the sensation of fatigue for which 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 317 

reason it is used by many nurses when on night duty. It 
should never be given to children. 

Frequently after operation freshly made black coffee or 
tea without milk or sugar will be retained and in some cases 
will check vomiting. Give the patient one-half teaspoonful at 
frequent intervals. 

Tea and coffee in themselves have no nutritive value ; they 
are useful only as stimulants and as carriers of water. 

Many preparations have been put upon the market as 
coffee substitutes but they lack the aromatic oil and caffein 
for which it is really prized. They make pleasing hot bev- 
erages, however, and when served with sugar and cream 
have a food value. 

Chocolate and Cocoa 

Source. — Cocoa and chocolate are commercially prepared 
from the seeds of the cacao tree, Theobroma cacao. The seeds 
(or beans) are contained in a pulpy fruit 7 to 12 inches long, 
3 to 5 inches in diameter, and in shape intermediate between 
a melon and a cucumber. The fruit is gathered and allowed 
to remain in a heap for a few days to ferment, when the 
pulp becomes loosened. During this process the seeds lose 
some of their bitterness upon which the flavor of the bean 
largely depends. They are then dried in the sun, cleaned, 
sorted and carefully roasted. After this the thin outer husks 
are removed and sold under the name of cocoa shells. The 
broken roasted beans constitute cocoa nibs. 

Chocolate is prepared by grinding the nibs between hot 
rollers to a great degree of fineness. The presence of 50 per 
cent, fat causes the mass to form a paste. This is molded 
and cooled with or without the addition of sugar and flavor- 
ing. 

Cocoa consists of chocolate deprived of a part of the fat. 
Sugar or starch or both are sometimes added. 

Resemblance to Tea and Coffee. — Chocolate and cocoa 
contain a volatile oil set free by the fermenting process 



318 BEVERAGES 

and further modified by roasting, to which the characteristic 
flavor is due. They also contain tannic acid but in smaller 
amount than tea or coffee. The stimulating principle 
of chocolate and cocoa is an alkaloid closely allied to caffein, 
called theobromin. It is less apt to induce nervous symptoms 
than either tea or coffee but in many persons its stimulat- 
ing power is distinctly felt. 

Nutritive Value. — Unlike tea and coffee, chocolate and co- 
coa have a high food value as shown by the following 
analysis : 

Protein Fat Carbo- Mineral Water Calories 

hydrates Matter per lb. 

Chocolate .... 12.5% 47.1% 26.8% 3.3% 10.3% 2720 

Breakfast Cocoa 12.6% 28.9% 37.7% 7.2% 4.6% 2320 

By reason of the high percentage of fat, chocolate is likely 
to cause indigestion when used to excess or when taken in 
addition to an otherwise heavy meal. Cocoa, being less rich 
in fat, is free from this objection. 

The use of cocoa often makes milk acceptable when it 
would otherwise be refused. Hence this beverage is useful 
in convalescence if there are no digestive disturbances. When 
made weak it can also be given to children in moderation. 

Principles of Cooking. — Chocolate and cocoa both contain 
considerable starch and hence should be boiled to be di- 
gestible. The cooked starch also serves to thicken the bev- 
erage somewhat and to make it smoother and more homo- 
geneous. On account of the volatile oil to which the flavor 
is due the cooking should be continued only long enough to 
alter the starch, otherwise the oil is lost. 

TEA 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon tea. 1 cup boiling water. 

Scald the teapot, which should be of silver, crockery or 
granite ware, not tin. Put in the tea, add the freshly boiling 
water and let it infuse three to five minutes. By no means 
allow it to boil, for boiling dissipates the aroma and extracts 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 319 

the tannin. Strain into hot cup and serve with cream or milk 
and lump sugar, or with sugar and a slice of lemon. 

RUSSIAN TEA 

Heat cup, fill three-fourths full of boiling water and dip in 
it one teaspoon tea (put in tea-ball or fine small strainer), 
until strong enough. Serve hot with sugar and a slice of 
lemon. 

Note : Lemon is a good substitute for milk. The lemon 
prevents the headache and sleeplessness which the milk in 
tea causes some persons. 

COFFEE MADE IN THE PERCOLATOR 

Breakfast Coffee After-Dinner Coffee 

2 tablespoons coffee. Increase quantity of coffee to 

1 cup cold water. suit the taste. 

For method of cooking, follow directions that come with 
percolator. There are several makes of percolators on the 
market and directions vary. 

Coffee made in a perculator has a delicious aroma, a fine 
flavor and an absence of the bitter taste caused by boiling. 

Buy coffee in the berry and grind it fresh every day, for 
ground coffee soon loses its aroma. 

BOILED COFFEE 

(To make seven cups of coffee.) 

1 cup coffee. 6 cups boiling water. 

y 2 egg and shell. 1 cup cold water. 

Scald coffee pot. Wash egg, beat slightly and add crushed 
shell, coffee and one-half cup cold water. Put into scalded 
coffee pot, add boiling water and let boil up three times, 
stirring down after each time (or boil five minutes) and 
pour out a little coffee to free spout from grounds ; then add 
one-half cup cold water. Let it stand 20 minutes where it 
will keep hot but not boil. If there is no cap to the spout of 
coffee pot, plug it to prevent escape of aroma. Serve in hot 



32o BEVERAGES 

coffee cups with cream and sugar, or hot milk may be used 
in place of cream. 

Note : A favorite blend of coffee is three parts Java and 
one part Mocha. 

BOILED COFFEE 
(Individual Rule.) 

2 tablespoons coffee. 1 egg shell or 1 teaspoon 

1 tablespoon cold water. egg white. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Follow general directions for blending as in preceding 
recipe. Boil three minutes and add one teaspoon cold water. 
Keep hot 15 minutes. The size of coffee pot should be in 
accordance with the quantity to be made. 

FILTERED COFFEE 
(Individual Rule.) 

2 tablespoons finely ground 24 cup boiling water. 

coffee, 

Place a piece of filter paper over a strainer and put the 
coffee in it. Hold the strainer over a hot coffee cup and pour 
the boiling water slowly over the coffee. 

COFFEE WITH LACTOSE, 280 CALORIES 1 

VA ounces of milk sugar (about 3 tablespoons) 

4 to 5 ounces of strong coffee (8 to 10 tablespoons) 

2 ounces of cream (18%) (4 tablespoons) 

By previously dissolving the milk sugar in water, 72 grams 
of it may be put into a cup of coffee. 

MALTED MILK COFFEE, 6l CALORIES 2 
(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted 1 tablespoon ground coffee. 

Milk. 24 cup boiling water. 

Sugar. 

Mix the malted milk powder, coffee and water, stirring 
well. Boil three minutes. Add sugar if desired. 

x Dr. W. Coleman, American Journal of Medical Sciences. January, 1912. 

2 Without sugar. 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 321 

Or one to four teaspoons of malted milk powder may be 
put in a cup and ordinary coffee poured directly upon it, 
stirring constantly. 

DIABETIC CRACKED COCOA 1 

1 cup cracked cocoa. 1 quart water. 

Add cracked cocoa to one quart of water. Let simmer all 
day, adding water from time to time keeping the quantity 
up to one quart. 

COCOA WITH LACTOSE AND MILK, 2 433 CALORIES 

2 teaspoons of cocoa. 4 ounces of milk. 

2 ounces of milk sugar. 2 ounces of cream (18%). 

Mix the sugar and cocoa ; cook in the milk until dissolved. 
Serve with cream. 

COCOA WITH LACTOSE A.ND WATER, 2 4IO CALORIES 

2 teaspoons of cocoa. l / 2 cup water. 

2 ounces of milk sugar. 3 ounces of cream (18%). 

Mix cocoa and sugar, add the water and boil. Then add 
the cream, or use less cream and serve with whipped cream. 

BREAKFAST COCOA, 820 CALORIES 

3 tablespoons Walter Baker's 1 cup boiling water. 

cocoa. 3 cups scalded milk. 

4 tablespoons sugar. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Put the cocoa and sugar in 
a saucepan and slowly pour on the hot water, stirring all the 
time. Boil five minutes, add the scalded milk, beat until 
foamy with Dover egg beater to prevent formation of skin. 
Serve in heated cups. One-half cup of cream is a great addi- 
tion to cocoa. 

*Dr. Frederick M. Allen, Director, The Psychiatric Institute, Morristown, 
New Jersey. 

2 Dr. W. Coleman, American Journal of Medical Sciences, January, 1912. 



322 BEVERAGES 

BREAKFAST COCOA, 1 62 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 teaspoons Walter Baker's % cup boiling water, 

cocoa. y<x cup scalded milk. 

1 teaspoon sugar. 

Follow general directions for blending and cooking as in 
preceding recipe. Boil three minutes. 

Note : Cocoa may be served hot or ice cold, with or with- 
out whipped cream. It may be served hot, poured over the 
beaten white or yolk of egg. One-third teaspoon of brandy 
may be added if ordered by the physician. 

MALTED MILK COCOA, JO CALORIES 1 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted Y\ cup boiling water. 

Milk. Sugar. 

1 teaspoon cocoa. 

Mix the malted milk powder, cocoa and water, stirring 
well. Boil three minutes. Add sugar if desired and serve hot. 

PLAIN CHOCOLATE, II96 CALORIES 
(Eight Cups.) 

1 quart milk. y 2 tablespoon cornstarch. 

2 ounces Walter Baker's choco- 3 tablespoons sugar. 

late. Speck salt. 

2 tablespoons foiling water. 

Mix the cornstarch with one-fourth cup of the milk. Put 
remainder of milk in double boiler to heat. When the milk 
is scalded, stir in the cornstarch and cook ten minutes. 
Scrape the chocolate and put it in a small saucepan; add 
sugar and water and place the saucepan over hot water. Stir 
constantly until the mixture is smooth and glossy. Add the 
hot milk and beat the mixture with egg beater until frothy ; 
or it may be poured back and forth from the boiler to a 
pitcher, holding high the vessel from which it is poured. 
This will give a thick froth. Serve at once. 

1 'Without Sugar. 



SPECIAL NON-NUTRITIVE BEVERAGES 323 

Note: If you prefer not to thicken the chocolate, omit 
the cornstarch. 

Whipped cream may be served with chocolate, or it may 
be poured over the beaten yolk of egg. 

If desired flavor with one-half teaspoon vanilla. 

PLAIN CHOCOLATE, 3OO CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup milk. % tablespoon cornstarch. 

y 2 ounce chocolate. M tablespoon sugar. 

Follow directions for blending and cooking as in preced- 
ing recipe. 

CHOCOLATE, VIENNA STYLE, I419 CALORIES 

(Eight Cups.) 

1 quart milk. 3 tablespoons boiling water. 

4 ounces Walter Baker's vanilla 1 tablespoon sugar, 
chocolate. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Scrape chocolate and put 
sugar and water into a small saucepan ; heat over hot water, 
stirring till smooth and glossy. Stir this mixture into the 
hot milk and beat well with an egg beater. Serve at once, 
putting a tablespoon of whipped cream in each cup and 
filling with the chocolate. 

The plain chocolate may be used instead of the vanilla 
but in that case use one teaspoon vanilla and three generous 
tablespoons sugar. 

Special Non-Nutritive Beverages 

FLAXSEED TEA 

1 tablespoon whole flaxseed. Lemon juice to taste. 

2 cups cold water. Sugar. 

Wash flaxseed thoroughly, put it with the cold water in a 
saucepan, simmer one hour, add lemon juice and sugar to 
taste and strain. 

Note : If too thick, add hot water. 

Valuable in case of inflammation of the mucous membrane. 



324 BEVERAGES 



FLAXSEED AND LICORICE TEA 

1 ounce flaxseed. 1 pint boiling water. 

2 drachms licorice root. 

Pour the boiling water over whole flaxseed and bruised 
licorice-root, cover and cook very slowly for four hours. 
Strain. 

CINNAMON WATER 
1 ounce stick cinnamon. 1 pint boiling water. 

Boil together fifteen minutes. Strain. Serve hot or cold. 

Note : Good in bowel trouble. The pure cinnamon is quite 
different from the coarse bark usually sold for cinnamon, 
which is really only cassia. 

LIME WATER 

1 tablespoon of slaked lime. 1 quart boiled or distilled water. 

Put the lime and water into a corked bottle and shake thor- 
oughly two or three times during the first hour. The lime 
should then be allowed to settle and after twenty-four hours 
the upper clear fluid carefully poured or siphoned off into 
a glass-stoppered bottle. Keep tightly corked, as it absorbs 
carbon dioxide from the air. Keep in a cool place, 

BRAN TEA 

% cup wheat bran. Molasses. 

2 cups cold water. Lemon juice. 
Egg shell. 

Boil the water and bran twenty minutes and settle it with 
an tgg shell or a little cold water. Sweeten with molasses. 
Lemon juice may be used if desired. 

SLIPPERY ELM TEA 

2 teaspoons slippery elm pow- Sugar. 

der or piece of the bark. Lemon juice. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Pour the water upon the slippery-elm powder or bark. 
When cool, strain and flavor with lemon juice and sugar. 



SPECIAL NON-NUTRITIVE BEVERAGES 325 

This is soothing in case of inflammation of the mucous mem- 
brane. 

HERB TEA 

Pour one cup of boiling water over two tablespoons of 
herbs. Cover the bowl, set it over the tea-kettle and steep 
ten minutes. Sweeten if desired. 

GINGER TEA 

Mix one tablespoon of molasses with one-half teaspoon of 
ginger; pour on gradually one-half cup boiling water, and 
boil one minute. Add one-half cup milk and when thor- 
oughly heated, serve. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 

1. Discuss fully the uses of beverages in the diet. 

2. Why is it important that the ice used in preparing cold drinks 
should be pure? 

3. Why is a sugar syrup preferable to sugar in sweetening cold 
beverages ? 

4. Give a recipe for lemonade. 

5. What fruit juices may be used in place of or combined with 
lemon juice? 

6. Discuss the digestibility of raw eggs. How does this affect the 
nutritive value of albuminous beverages? 

7. What is the energy value of one tablespoon of malted milk 
powder ? 

8. What principle is involved in the preparation of starchy bever- 
ages? 

9. Give a recipe for barley water ; oatmeal water. 

10. What are the active principles of tea and coffee To what are 
their stimulating properties due? 

11. Discuss the nutritive value of chocolate and cocoa. 

12. What is the chief difference between chocolate and cocoa? What 
active principles do they contain? 

13. Give a recipe for tea, coffee, cocoa. 

14. Give^a method for making lime water. 



PART III 

DIETO-THERAPY 

FEEDING THE SICK— HOSPITAL DIETS— DIET IN 
DISEASE— DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



CHAPTER XII 
FEEDING THE SICK 

In the treatment of disease there are few questions which 
must be considered so often in the daily routine of practice 
as those which concern the proper support and nourishment 
of the patient. 

A good nurse will never exceed or depart from the phy- 
sician's instructions, but there are occasions when her posses- 
sion of accurate, even if limited, knowledge on the subject 
of chemical and physiological action of food will enable a 
physician to give more definite directions, greatly assisting 
him in the performance of his duties and adding to the com- 
fort and well-being of the patient. 

Physician's Directions. — The nurse should recieve definite 
written directions regarding quantity, form and preparation 
of food and time of serving. A detailed food record should 
be kept, covering these details, in pneumonia, typhoid and 
all acute serious conditions, and the quantity of fluid and 
medicine taken should be noted. After the physician has 
received from the nurse a report on the condition of the pa- 
tient's digestion and a statement of his preference for par- 
ticular foods, further specific directions may be given, allow- 
ing, for the sake of humoring the patient, the substitution of 
one form of food or drink for another. 

The careful serving of suitable and easily digested food is 
essential, for it is from this supply of nutritive material that 
the patient derives the requisite energy for the involuntary 
action of the heart and lungs. Then, too, the medicine will 
produce its proper effect. In the matter of feeding, the 
nurse has scope for her power of co-operation and her op- 
portunity to benefit the patient is immeasurable. 

329 



330 FEEDING THE SICK 

Methods of Feeding. — There are several methods of feed- 
ing which have been adopted to meet the needs of the indi- 
vidual under various conditions : 

1. The natural method of feeding by mouth. 

2. The artificial method of feeding, by inunction, by gav- 
age or forced feeding, and rectal feeding. 

Methods of Making Food Easy to Digest 

Selection and Preparation of Food for the Sick. — There 
are certain points for the nurse to remember in regard to the 
selection and preparation of food to make it easier to digest. 

a. Food can be made more available to the digestive juices 
and therefore more easily digested ; 

1. By giving it in solution, e.g., milk, soups, raw or 
soft-cooked eggs, fruit juices, cereal gruels. 

2. By scraping or chopping, e.g., meat, vegetables. 

3. By straining, e.g., cereals, vegetables, etc. 

4. By mashing, e.g., vegetables. 

5. By using the finely milled rather than the coarse 
cereals. 

6. By proper cooking, i.e., the proteins should be 
softened, the fats not decomposed by high tempera- 
ture and cellulose should be softened. 

b. Certain substances are irritating to the digestive tract 
and should therefore be avoided ; 

1. Decomposed fat or rancid fat. 

2. Burned food. 

3. Condiments and spices, except in very small amounts. 

4. Sugar in concentration (e.g., very sweet desserts, 
jams, jellies, preserves, candies, etc.). 

5. Strong flavored foods, such as onions, cabbage, cau- 
liflower, turnips. These should be used with cau- 
tion. 

c. Digestion is also furthered by the avoidance of large 
amounts of protein and fat, which are less rapidly digested 
than carbohydrates (see pages 28 and 32) and of cellulose, 



DETAILS OF FEEDING 331 

which delays the passage of food from the stomach (page 
32) ; by giving small amounts of food at a time, warm 
rather than cold, dilute rather than concentrated ; and by 
serving meals at regular hours. All food should be thor- 
oughly chewed and insalivated. 

Methods of Serving Food Easy to Digest. — See fluid diets, 
page 340; soft diets, page 344; milk diet, page 344; con- 
valescent diets, page 348. 

Feeding in Acute Diseases. — The patient's condition is 
often an all-important consideration. In an acute disease, 
accompanied by fever, the body loses weight, urea is in- 
creased and carbon dioxide and water are excreted in larger 
amounts than in health. All of this loss is not dangerous if 
permitted to go on for a few days only, and if the amounts 
do not exceed certain limits. But in replacing these losses 
we meet this difficulty, namely, the patient's lowered ability 
to assimilate food. 

It is the administration of unsuitable food that must be 
guarded against as well as the giving of nourishment in quan- 
tities and at times unsuited to the digestive powers of the 
patient. One should not give what cannot be digested, nor 
more than can be assimilated. So the attendant must have a 
constant watch over the condition of the patient's power of 
digestion, (not only as to what is put into the alimentary 
tract, but also as to what goes out, such as curds of undi- 
gested milk, etc.). It is necessary for her to know how to 
choose such variety in the diet as to include both what is 
palatable and what will afford a proper amount of nourish- 
ment. 

Details of Feeding 

The Room. — The room in which the food is to be served 
to the patient should be clean and orderly and free from the 
noise and smell of cooking. 

Bathing and Cleansing the Mouth. — When possible, it is 
well to bathe the patient's face and hands before offering a 



332 FEEDING THE SICK 

meal. A tongue scraper made of a whalebone bent to a loop 
may be used 'before serving the food, thus uncovering the 
taste nerves and improving the appetite. 

In any febrile condition the mouth is apt to acquire a dis- 
agreeable taste, so prominent in certain cases as to render it 
difficult for the patient to eat. This can be to a great extent 
eliminated by the use of aseptic mouth washes. When the 
patient is not strong enough to rinse the mouth before and 
after eating, the nurse must use a swab for the purpose. 

Time and Position for Feeding. — When the patient is first 
allowed to sit up for half an hour, it is well to utilize this 
time for giving the principal meal of the day. In whatever 
position the patient may be during feeding, he should be 
made as comfortable as possible and never cramped by the 
food tray. Patients who become exhausted in the morning 
before they are able to take any solid food may, if ordered 
by the physician, be given a spoonful of some liquid nourish- 
ment every hour or two from early morning till the time for 
taking solid food, which would then probably be at about 
noon. 

The Appetite. — If great pains are taken in the preparation 
of food, the invalid's appetite may be tempted. Then, too, 
the nurse should learn the reason for the apparent lack of 
desire for food. This may lead to a change in the kind, 
flavor or appearance of the food, or to making the patient's 
surroundings more cheerful, or to keeping from the patient 
all questions as to what he will eat as well as the sight or 
sound of others eating or even tasting of food in his 
presence. Personal idiosyncrasies should be considered, for 
some foods easy of digestion, if repugnant to the patient, 
may prove nauseating and be rejected or disturb digestion. 

The Food and Drink Served. — For those acutely ill only a 
small quantity of food should be given at one time. A table- 
spoonful of nourishment every half hour may suffice. 

Many foods properly cooked, which if served promptly 
would be delicious, are spoiled by standing. The rule of 
serving food at stated intervals should be observed for the 



DETAILS OF FEEDING 333 

conscious as well as the unconscious or semi-unconscious pa- 
tient. 

• With an adequate supply of the best quality of pure fresh 
food and a physician's regulation as to the amount for each 
feeding, the nurse's task is not difficult. If the doctor makes 
no rule in the matter, the nurse must see to it that the patient 
eats enough without overindulging. If disease is wasting 
the body, extra food is needed. During convalescence addi- 
tional food may be served to enable the patient to regain 
lost weight. 

Only the easily digestible parts of foods should be pre- 
sented to a patient, as tender meats, young vegetables, etc. 
Avoid all well-known indigestible foods. 

The seasoning of food should be carefully done, using 
only the simplest condiments, salt, pepper, celery salt, in 
minimum amounts. 

Thirst must, of course, be alleviated, giving water regu- 
larly and freely. In some cases, as in peptic ulcer, only a 
meager amount of "fluids" may be administered with safety. 
In typhoid fever it is wise to find out the beverages particu- 
larly liked by the patient and whenever possible to make 
use of them. 

The Temperature of food served has a marked influence 
upon digestion. Foods to be served "hot" should not be 
lukewarm. Cold food should be neither lukewarm nor ice 
cold, for food at extreme temperatures often interferes with 
digestion and absorption. 

Sleep and Feeding. — Food should be administered in seri- 
ous cases, even though it be necessary to awaken the patient 
to receive it. If a patient should be unable, however, to fall 
asleep readily after the feeding, sleep would very likely be 
more beneficial than food. 

Feeding the Helpless Patient. — If the patient is very weak, 
the feeding process may be made less wearisome by placing 
the hand beneath the pillow and raising both together gently. 
In feeding fluids, always serve in a small tumbler, not more 
than two-thirds filled ; see that swallows are not taken during 



334 FEEDING THE SICK 

inspiration, and that each mouthful is swallowed before 
another is offered. In case the head cannot be raised, food 
may be given by means of a glass tube or a feeding cup. 

Feeding the Unconscious Patient. — Unconscious patients 
demand specially careful feeding. They should be given 
only liquid nourishment and fed with a spoon, or through 
a catheter. If the jaws are set, a medicine dropper may be 
utilized. Not over a teaspoonful should be given at once, and 
the nurse must be sure it is swallowed before she gives more. 
In the case of comatose children or young infants, the nour- 
ishment may be poured into the nostril in place of the mouth. 
Feeding with the stomach tube is sometimes resorted to 
when nasal feeding is not feasible. 

The foods best adapted to this use are some of the milk, 
cream, and lactose mixtures recommended for typhoid fever 
patients, to which raw eggs, beaten up, or thin cereal may be 
added. The intervals between feeding should be as long as 
possible, preferably not oftener than three times in the 
twenty-fours hours. The caloric needs of the individual 
must be considered in arranging for the exact quantity to be 
used in the twenty-four hours. 1 

Use of Alcohol in the Sick Room. — The nurse may be re- 
quired to exercise her own judgment at times in the emer- 
gency use of alcoholics in the sick room. Consumptives 
often show remarkable tolerance of alcohol and receive a 
noticeable stimulating effect from it. 

Severe acute or sub-acute conditions which might require 
an alcoholic stimulant rather than any other for the sake of 
its emergency effect in averting unforeseen cardiac failure, 
comprise pyemia, septicemia and diphtheria. 

Alcohol should perhaps never be given even in emergencies 
to subjects with neurosis or insanity or to victims of severe 
disease of the gastro-intestinal organs. 

1 Carter, Howe & Mason, "Nutrition & Clinical Dietetics." Lea & Febiger, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 



ARTIFICIAL METHODS OF FEEDING 33$ 

Artificial Methods of Feeding 

Inunction 

Feeding by Inunction. — This method consists of rubbing" 
the body with certain oils, such as olive oil, cocoanut oil, 
cocoa butter, etc. It has been shown to be of little value 
from the standpoint of nutrition, but is occasionally resorted 
to with very much emaciated and underfed infants, as it im- 
proves the circulation and gives a better body tone. 

Gavage or Forced Feeding 

Forced Feeding. — Forced feeding, i.e., introducing various 
liquid foods, as milk, eggs, meat-juice or extracts into the 
stomach by way of the nose or directly through the mouth 
by means of a stomach tube, is seldom required of the nurse, 
being done usually by the physician. This method is em- 
ployed when the unconscious patient experiences difficulty 
in swallowing, in gastric irritability, when a patient is un- 
able to take sufficient food, owing to loss of appetite and 
disgust for food, and also in case of a refractory patient 
who refuses to eat. 

Technique of Nasal Feeding. — In nasal feeding a nasal 
tube is employed or, in the case of an infant, a catheter. Have 
either well oiled and pass gently through the nose into the 
cesophagus and then into the stomach. Before pouring in 
the food wait a moment to see that the tube has not entered 
the larynx. 

Technique of Gavage. — The jaws must be kept open. In 
children without teeth, the finger may be employed ; in grown 
persons a mouth gag or a roller bandage may be held be- 
tween the teeth. The tube should be moistened, passed into 
the pharynx and thence rapidly into the stomach. If these 
two precautions are not observed, contraction of the muscles 
may occur, preventing the tube from entering the cesophagus. 
In passing the tube into the cesophagus, hold it well back 
from the end. When the tube is satisfactorily introduced, 
place a funnel in the free end and pour liquid nourishment 
slowly down the side of the funnel until the tube is rilled 



336 FEEDING THE SICK 

and the air in tube is expelled. This care prevents the air in 
tube from entering the stomach. In removing the tube, with- 
draw it rapidly in order not to excite vomiting. In 
some cases the physician orders the stomach washed out be- 
fore introducing the food. When it is necessary to take 
special precautions to prevent regurgitation of the food, the 
ribs may be tickled to prevent contraction of the diaphragm. 
Technique of Duodenal Feeding. 1 — The object of duodenal 
feeding is to supply nourishment to the patient in such a 
manner that the stomach is kept empty. This can be done by 
introducing a small tube into the stomach, whence it passes 
of itself into the duodenum, and is left there. 

Rectal Feeding 

Rectal Feeding. — This form of alimentation is necessary 
when the stomach cannot retain food. It is based on the fact 
that the rectal mucous membrane, while it possesses no di- 
gestive faculty, is able to absorb certain classes of nutriment, 
notably sugars (of which dextrose is the most satisfac- 
tory), proteoses, peptones and amino acids, especially the 
latter substances. There is great difference of opinion re- 
garding the utilization of fats given by rectum, but it is 
doubtful if fats are absorbed except possibly in amounts too 
small to be of any nutritive value. 

The rectum may be intolerant of almost any form of ene- 
ma; even if retained for some time, it may be rejected with- 
out apparent change. Under the most favorable circum- 
stances, at least three-fourths of the quantity injected will 
come away with the regular evacuation of the bowels. The 
amount of energy actually supplied must be far below the 
theoretical demands of the body. Some of the most available 
substances, such as dextrose, are naturally irritating to the 
rectum, but provided they are not given in too concentrated 
solutions, they are usually well borne. 

It is possible to keep a patient alive for weeks and even 

1 For further information note Dr. Max Einhorn's "Lectures on Dietetics," 
published by Paul B. Hoeber, New York. 



ARTIFICIAL METHODS OF FEEDING 337 

months by. rectal feeding, but in many cases this resource for 
one reason or another fails outright to do what is expected of 
it. Hence we cannot be too careful as to technique and 
choice of material used. Of natural substances, milk and 
eggs have been very freely used. The albumin and sugar in 
the milk and the albumin in the eggs are probably utilized to 
some extent, but we cannot be sure of the absorption of the 
fatty matter of the milk and eggs. Both these substances are 
relatively non-irritating. Peptonized milk answers well in 
some cases. It is best to carry on the peptonization for a 
long period, until the end products of digestion (amino 
acids) form, peptones themselves being sometimes irritating 
and amino acids better absorbed. 
Technique of Rectal Feeding: 1 

1. During the period of rectal alimentation it is best to 
have the patient in bed with the foot of the bed raised on 
shock-blocks. The patient should remain in this position for 
at least an hour after the feeding. 

2. Every morning the patient should be given a cleansing 
enema consisting of a quart of water and one teaspoonful of 
salt in order to empty the bowels thoroughly. 

3. One hour later the first feeding enema is employed. 
The latter is injected into the rectum slowly and quite high 
by means of a soft rubber rectal tube and an irrigator funnel 
or syringe. Everything used for the enema should be of the 
temperature of the body. 

4. The food used must be sterilized, the peptonized milk 
in particular must be brought to a boil after peptonization is 
complete. 

5. Should the rectum become irritated by using solutions 
which are too strong the strength must be reduced and the 
rectum given a rest of a few hours after the saline cleansing. 

6. It may be necessary to add 5 to 10 drops of deodorized 
tincture of opium if the rectum irritability cannot be other- 
wise controlled. 

1 Modified from Dr. Max Einhorn's directions and Drs. Carter, Howe & 
Mason's "Nutrition & Clinical Dietetics," Lea & Febiger, Phila., Pa. 



338 FEEDING THE SICK 

7. It is often advantageous to give the dextrose solution 
by the Murphy drip. This is done by putting the solution 
at 105 F. in an irrigator and keeping it warm by means 
of cloths wrapped about the apparatus, or by placing a 
lighted electric bulb in the fluid to keep up its temperature. 
The fluid flow is then regulated by a stop-cock or merely by 
pinching the rubber tube by an artery clamp so that the fluid 
will drip from 60 to 90 drops per minute. This can often be 
continued for hours, depending on the rectal toleration. (In- 
asmuch as the anal tube for the drip injection must lodge in 
the rectum a long time, Dr. Einhorn employs for this pur- 
pose a specially thin rubber which is non-collapsible and has 
a circumference of 8-10 mm. 8-10F). At the end of the 
tube is attached a small hard rubber or metal capsule pro- 
vided with numerous openings. The thin tube does not 
annoy patient and the capsule with the many openings facili- 
tates the flow of the fluid. 

NUTRIENT ENEMAS 1 

I. Peptone Enema: 

30-60 gm. (1-2 oz.) of a peptone preparation (Witte's, Kem- 
merich's or Rudisch's peptone, Somatose, Senose, Plasmon, 
Sanatogen, etc.). Mixed with 200-250 c.c. of water (7-8 oz.) 
and thoroughly stirred. 

The various malt extracts (like Valentine's Beef Juice, Bo- 
vinine, Mosquera, Beef Jelly, etc.) can be used in similar 
proportions with advantages. 

II. Milk Enema: 

200-250 c.c. (7-8 oz.) of milk alone as with the addition of 
0.5 gm. (gr. VII ss) of bicarbonate of soda. 

III. Egg-Milk Enema: 

200 c.c. (7 oz.) of milk, 2 raw eggs. 

1 t'ablespoonful of grape sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of common table salt mixed and well beaten. 

Fancreatin 0.3 gm. (gr. V) may be added advantageously 

though this is not essential. 

IV. Milk-Starch Enema: 

250 c.c. (8 oz.) of milk and 60 gm. (2 oz.) of starch added. 
1 Arranged by Dr. Max Einhorn, for "Pattee's Practical Dietetics," 1922. 



8 A. M. 
12 Noon 


2 P. 
6 P. 
9 P. 


M. 
M. 
M. 



ARTIFICIAL METHODS OF FEEDING 339 

V. Leube's Meat — Pancreas Enema: 

50 gm. (l^oz.) fresh pancreas. 
150 gin. (5 oz.) meat. 

30 gm. (1 oz.) fat. 

Chop finely and mix with 
150 gm. (5 oz.) of wafer. 

IV. Sugar Enema: 

30-50 gm. {\-\ l / 2 oz.) glucose mixed with 
300-500 c.c. (10-17 oz.) of water, saline or milk. 

SUGGESTED 24 HOUR SCHEDULE FOR RECTAL FEEDING 

7 A. M. Cleansing enema. 
Egg-Milk enema. 

Drip enema of a 5-10% glucose solution of 500 c.c. 
(17 oz.) or more. 
Egg-Milk enema. 
Egg-Milk enema. 

Drip enema of a 5-10% glucose solution of 500 c.c. 
(17 oz.) or more. 

In case the bowel injections cause diarrhoea, 5 drops of 
Tr. Opii. Simplex are added to each nutrient enema, and in- 
stead of the glucose drip, plain saline should be tentatively 
given. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 
FEEDING THE SICK 

1. What is the duty of the nurse in regard to the physician's direc- 
tions concerning diet? 

2. Why is a knowledge of dietetics essential for the nurse? 

3. What conditions present in acute disease accompanied by fever 
require adjustment of the diet? 

4. What are the advantages of a liquid diet in feeding the sick? 
What must be guarded against? 

5. What may be done to stimulate a patient's appetite? 

6. Why is it important to cleanse the patient's mouth before and 
after eating? How should this be done? 

7. Would you wake a patient to feed him? 

8. How would you feed a helpless patient? 

9. How would you feed an unconscious patient? 

10. When is forced feeding necessary? What methods are used? 

11. Outline the procedure to be followed in the use of the stomach 
tube. What' precautions must be taken? 

12. When is rectal feeding used? 

13. How far is it possible to nourish the patient in this way? 

14. Describe the method of procedure to be followed in rectal feeding. 

15. List the foods generally used. 

16. How often and in what quantities can nutrient enemas be given? 



CHAPTER XIII 



HOSPITAL DIETS 



Since diet is of paramount importance in the treatment of 
many diseases, the ability to arrange and administer these 
diets to the satisfaction of physician and patient becomes a 
more and more essential part of the nurse's education. It is 
not an easy task, for it may require not only an accurate 
knowledge of the foods suitable for the condition and skill in 
preparation, but often much patience, much tact and much 
ingenuity to meet the requirements and the moods of the 
patient. * 

In order to do her very best work the nurse must 
know the different types of diets, the foods that are 
included in these, why they are included and why others are 
excluded. She should be able, if necessary, to calculate the 
quantity of food required and to apportion this throughout 
the day either in the regular three meals or in smaller 
amounts at more frequent intervals. "Individuality is ex- 
pressed in the diet of every human being and this is often 
greatly emphasized in times of sickness. The difficulties of 
tempting the palate fall to the nurse and if need be she must 
employ all her skill and intuitiveness to carry out the doctor's 
orders, while at the same time pleasing her patient." 1 

Types of Diets 

Fluid Diet 

Fluid Diet. — Consisting only of liquid foods is of exceed- 
ingly low caloric value and represents what may be well to 
give during the first day or two of any acute illness, when 

barter, Howe and Mason, "Nutrition and Clinical Dietetics," Lea & Febiger, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 

340 



FLUID DIET 341 

one wishes to rest the organism without withholding food 
altogether. 

Kinds of Food to Use. — Acid, starchy and miscellaneous 
beverages (note various chapters for recipes). Raw eggs in 
combination with water, milk, fruit juices, cocoa, or other 
fluids (note chapter on Albuminous Beverages). Milk, either 
plain or modified in different ways, as given in recipes under 
chapter on Milk ; thus milk may be flavored with cocoa, 
chocolate, coffee or meat broth, diluted with lime water, or 
carbonated water or combined with starchy drinks or strained 
gruels. Broths of various kinds; beef juice, beef tea, beef 
extract. Soups, both clear and creamy. Wine, whey, sherry 
or brandy and milk to be given only when ordered by phy- 
sician. 

Schedule for Feeding. — Feedings are given every two 
hours from 6 A. M. to 8 P. M. with two night feedings if 
patient is awake. 1 

TYPICAL FLUID DIET MENUS 

Dr. Max Einhorn 2 

XOX-XUTRITIVE FLUID DIET 

8 A. M. Tea or Coffee 1 or 2 cups 250-500 c.c. 

12 M. Bouillon 1 or 2 cups 250-500 c.c. 

4 P. M. Tea or Coffee 1 or 2 cups 250-500 c.c. 

8 P. M. Bouillon 1 or 2 cups 250-500 c.c. 

2 quarts of plain water. White Rock or Vichy should be con- 
sumed in addition in every 24 hours. 

LOW RATION FLUID DIET, 100-200 CALORIES 

This consists practically of plain broths, clear soups, thin 
gruels, diluted fruit juices slightly sweetened, along with non- 
nutritious drinks, such as plain tea and coffee. These food 
articles are in reality not given for their very slight nutritive 
value, but because they are palatable and at the same time 

*"St. Luke's Dietary," St. Luke's Hospital, New York City. 

2 Dr. Max Einhorn, Professor of Medicine, New York Post Graduate School 
and Hospital, Physician to the Lenox-Hill Hospital, New York; Post Graduate 
Hospital, New York; White Plains Hospital, White Plains; Hackensack Hospital, 
Hackensack, New Jersey. 




342 HOSPITAL DIETS 

enable the stomach to rest for a day or two. Thus the patient 
receives a liberal daily supply of water (two or three pints) 
in a bland and agreeable form. 

LOW RATION FLUID DIET, 126 CALORIES 

Calories 

8 A. M. Tea or Coffee 1 or 2 cups 250-500 c.c. 

with one teaspoonful of sugar 16 

12 M. Thin Barley Gruel 10 ounces 300 c.c. 

1 tablespoonful Crushed Barley 50 

4 P. M. Bouillon 1 or 2 cups 250-500 c.c. 

8 P. M. Lemonade 1 or 2 cups 250-500 c.c. 

with one tablespoonful sugar 60 

Total 126 

2 quarts of plain water, White Rock or Vichy should be con- 
sumed in addition in every 24 hours. 

HALF RATION FLUID DIET, 800-900 CALORIES 

This is intended for very brief use — a few days at most — 
to rest the digestive organs and prepare the patient for the 
full fluid regimen. The balance of the daily requirement must 
be borrowed from the patient's own tissues. This diet may 
be obtained from the following articles : 

Milk \y 2 pints (about) 400 Calories 

Meat Broth \ l / 2 pints (about) 110 

Cereal Flour for Gruel.. 1 tablespoon (about) 40 

Sugar 4 tablespoons 240 " 

Egg White 2 27 " 

Lemon Juice 4 tablespoons 22 " 

Coffee, tea, Vichy water (no fuel value) 

Total 839 " 

In arranging these food articles in a daily menu, individual 
feedings should be small and succeed one another every two 
hours in eight or nine feedings daily. 

HALF RATION FLUID DIET, 924 CALORIES 

Calories 

8 A. M. Milk 10 ounces 300 c.c. 202 

10 A. M. Milk and strained barley water, 

equal parts 10 ounces 300 c.c. 160 






12 M 




2 P. 


M. 


4 P. 


M. 


6 P. 


M. 


8 P. 


M. 


10 P. 


M. 



FLUID DIET 343 

Calories 
Bouillon with the white of two 
eggs 10 ounces 300 c.c. 30 

Lemonade with 2 tablespoonfuls 
sugar 10 ounces 300 c.c. 120 

Milk 10 ounces 300 c.c. 202 

Bouillon with the whites of 
2 eggs 10 ounces 300 c.c 30 

Whey 10 ounces 300 c.c. 60 

Lemonade, with 2 tablespoonfuls 
sugar 10 ounces 300 c.c. 120 

Total 924 

I quart of water should be taken in addition in 24 hours. 

FULL RATION FLUID DIET, 2072 CALORIES 

The full fluid diet gives the full requirement for an adult 
in bed and may, if necessary, be used over long periods. It 
also serves as a preparation for semi-solid and convalescent 
diets. The calories may be derived as follows : 

Milk 2 l / 2 pints 844 Calories 

Extra Cream (thick) . . . . 2>y 2 ounces 584 " 

Sugar 3 tablespoons 180 " 

Malted Milk 3 tablespoons 180 

Egg 2 120 " 

Egg White 1 . . 14 " 

Cereal Flour Gruel 1 tablespoon cereal flour 40 " 

Grape Juice 2 ounces 60 u 

Orange Juice 4 ounces 50 " 

Total 2072 " 

A daily menu with eight or nine feedings two hours apart, 
may be arranged from the above materials. 

FULL RATION FLUID DIET, 2070 CALORIES 

Calories 
8 A. M. Milk, 200 c.c. (6 2 / 3 oz.), with Coffee 100 c.c. (3 l / 3 

oz.), and Sugar 2 teaspoonfuls 160 

10 A.M. Bouillon and 1 Egg 82 

12 M. Milk 200 c.c. (6 2 / 3 oz.), Cream 50 c.c. (\ 2 / 3 oz.), 

and Cereal 50 c.c. (l 2 / 3 oz.) 426 

2 P. M. Milk 200 c.c. (6 2 / 3 oz.), with Coffee 100 c.c. (3^ 

oz.) and Sugar 2 teaspoonfuls 160 



344 HOSPITAL DIETS 

Calories 
4 P. M. Milk 250 c.c. (8^ oz.), Cream 50 c.c. (l 2 / 3 oz.) ... 296 

6 P. M. Milk 200 c.c. (6 2 / 3 oz.), Tea 50 c.c. (\ 2 / 3 oz.), 
Cream 50 c.c. (l 2 ^ oz.), and Sugar 2 teaspoon- 
fuls. 328 

8 P. M. Milk 200 c.c. (6 2 / 3 oz.), Cream 50 c.c. (l 2 / 3 oz.), 

Cereal 50 c.c. (l 2 / 3 oz.) 426 

10 P.M. Milk 300 c.c. (10 oz.) 192 

Total 2070 

TYPHOID FLUID DIET 

See Dr. Coleman's "High Calory Diet," page 365. 

See Dr. Kinnicutt's "Mixed Fluid Diet" No. I, page 373. 

See Dr. Kinnicutt's "Mixed Fluid Diet" No. h, page 373. 

Milk Diet 

Milk diet may consist of whole milk, modified milk, butter 
milk, malted milk or fermented milk. 

Milk may be modified to suit various abnormal conditions 
such as typhoid fever (see page 365) or gastric disturbances 
(see page 450). An exclusive whole milk diet has this great 
disadvantage, that in order to satisfy the caloric requirement 
of the average man three or four quarts per day would be 
needed and such volume is highly undesirable. For this 
reason an exclusive whole milk diet is advantageous only 
for limited periods. It is often used in acute or chronic renal 
conditions. 

Soft or Light Diet 
Soft or Light Diet. — This differs from a full liquid diet 
in including a number of semi-solid dishes and having gen- 
erally a larger caloric value (2000-2200 calories). It must 
be simple, well cooked, attractively served and easy of diges- 
tion. It is a step in advance of a liquid diet but contains less 
variety and less solid food than the convalescent diet. It does 
not include meat, fish or green vegetables. During the time 
of giving this diet the patient's appetite may usually be de- 
pended upon to regulate quantity. 



SOFT OR LIGHT DIET 



345 



Kinds of Food to Use. — All fluid foods. Milk and water 
gruels. Water, milk or creamy toast. Toast softened with 
broth. Starch and meat jellies. Custards in various forms. 
Whips and souffles, junkets, cornstarch puddings or blanc- 
mange, gelatin jellies. Ice cream, sherbets, ices. Plain cream 
and butter. 



TYPICAL SOFT DIET MENUS 1 



LOW SOFT DIET" 



For 2000 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 79.870 gm. 
fat, 95.683 gm. ; carbohydrate, 215.22 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



MEASURE 




7.30 A. M. 
9:30 A. M. 

12:00 Noon. 

2:30 P. M. 

5 :00 P. M. 

7:30 P. M. 

10:00 P. M. 



Milk, flavored 

with tea 
Grape juice 

Farina 

Top milk 

Toast 

Butter 

Beef broth 

Egg White 

Toast 

Butter 

Creamed chicken 

on toast 

Lemon Jelley . . . 
Whipped Cream. 
Milk, flavored 

with tea 

Toast 

Bouillon 

Egg omelet 

Cocoa 

Malted Milk ... 
Toast 



cup 
l A cup 

cup 
l A cup 

slice 
% tbsp. 
H cup 

slice 
Va tbsp. 
V2 cup 

slice 
Vz cup 

tbsp. 

cup 

slice 

V2 cup 

egg 

V2 cup 
cup 
slice 



^ee Dr. Coleman's Soft Diets in "Fever Diets," page 365. 

2 Mary Swartz Rose, Ph.D., "Feeding the Family," The Macmillan Co. 



1921. 



346 



HOSPITAL DIETS 



MEDIUM SOFT DIET 



For 2250 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 73.488 gm. ; 
fat, 90.97 gm. ; carbohydrate, 293.62 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 

7 :00 A. M. Milk 

9 :30 A. M. Orange juice 

Wheatena 

Cream— 18% .... 

Toast 

Butter 

12:00 Noon. Cream of Celery.. 

Soup 

Crackers 

2 :30 P. M. Egg Souffle 

Apple Sauce 

5 :00 P. M. Cocoa 

Graham Crackers. 

7:30 P. M. Beef Bouillon.... 
Creamy rice pud- 
ding 

10:00 P. M. Gruel (Barley).. 
Toast 



MEASURE 



L CUp 

l A cup 
1 cup 

Va cup 
1 slice 

y 2 tbsp. 



1 cup 
3 

Y\ cup 
V2 cup 

1 cup 
3 

1 cup 

y 4 cup 



cup 
slice 



OUNCES 



8.0 

4.7 

6.0 

1.8 
.69 
.23 

10.85 
.85 

6.71 
4.6 

8.46 
1.26 

8.0 
7.0 



9.0 
.69 



CAL- 
ORIES 

160.0 

50 
150 
100 

50 

50 

229.7 
100.0 

350.0 
135 

218 
150 

24 
323 



100 
50 

2239.7 



LACTO-FARINACEOUS DIET 



347 



FULL SOFT DIET 



For 2500 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 93.71 gm. ; 
fat, 146.18 gm. ; carbohydrate, 230.17 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 

7 :00 A. M. Milk 

9:30 A. M. Pineapple juice... 

Oatmeal 

Cream (40%) ... 

Toast 

Butter 

12 :00 Noon. Milk 

Graham Crackers. 

2 :30 P. M. Pea Puree 

Chicken Souffle . . 

Toast 

Butter 

5:00 P. M. Chocolate Malted 
Milk 

7:30 P. M. Eggs a la Golden- 
rod 

Toast 

Cream Sauce .... 
Orange Gelatin . . 

10:00 P. M. Egg Nog (warm) 



MEASURE 



1 cup 

l A cup 

1 cup 

Ya cup 

1 slice 

V* tbsp. 

1 cup 
3 



cup 
4 cup 

slice 
^ tbsp. 



cup 



egg 
slice 



cup 
cup 



1 cup 



OUN'CES 



4 

7.9 

2.7 
.69 
.23 

8.0 
1.26 



.69 



CAL- 
ORIES 

160 

74.8 
100 
300.0 
50 
50 

160 
150 

8.0 152 

5.4 401.25 
.69 50 
.23 50 

9.5 285 



75 

50 

161 

65 

230 
2579.05 



Lacto-Farinaceous Diet 1 

Kinds of Food to Use. — Milk, kumyss, zoolak, tea as 
served, coffee as served, graham bread, white bread, French 
rolls, toast, milk toast, cream toast, baked potatoes, plain 
crackers, spaghetti, cornstarch pudding, rice, cornmeal, oat- 
meal, arrowroot, barley, farina, hominy, cream of wheat, 
sago, junket, ice cream without eggs. 

This diet is often useful in case of both acute and chronic 
nephritis. 

»"St. Luke's Dietary," St. Luke's Hospital, New York City. 



348 HOSPITAL DIETS 

For 20-'j7 Calorics a Day: 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



MEASURE 



GRAMS 



CAL- 
ORIES 



7 :00 A. 
S :00 A. 



M. 
M. 



10:00 A. M. 



12:00 Noon. 



3:00 P. M. 



6:00 P. M. 



cereal 



crackers. 



Milk . . . 

Farina . 
Milk on 
Toas*- . . 
Coffee . 
Cream . 

Junket . 
Graham 

Baked Potato . . . 

Hot milk 

Lettuce Sandwich- 
Bread 

Lettuce Heart. 



Mayonnaise . 
Rice Pudding 
Milk 



Kumyss 

Soda crackers . . . 

Milk toast 

Graham bread . . . 

Milk 

VaniJla Ice Cream 



1 cup 

Vi cup 

Vi cup 

2 slices 



tbsp. 
cup 

tbsp. 



2 slices 
2 small 
leaves 
1 tbsp. 
V2 cup 
1 cup 



cup 



3 slices 
1 cup 

4 tbsp. 



170 

67 

42 

100 

'69 

190 
100 

100 
21 

100 

6 
100 
200 
170 

82 
50 

150 
170 
160 

2047 



Convalescent Diet 

A simple mixed diet is suitable for convalescence. Foods 
recognized as difficult of digestion should be avoided and em- 
phasis laid on milk, eggs, toast, well-cooked cereals and other 
foods used in Soft Diet. Mild fruits and well-cooked 
vegetables may be added cautiously and tender meat about 
once a day. The fuel value should be liberal, probably 2200 
to 2500 calories per day, with 80 to 100 grams protein, 300 
grams carbohydrate and 80 to 90 grams fat. 

As the name indicates such a diet is given when a patient 
is recovering from illness and is preliminary to a regular 
normal diet. 



CONVALESCENT DIET 

TYPICAL CONVALESCENT DIET 1 



349 



LIGHT CONVALESCENT DIET 



For 2000 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 70 gm. 
fat, 80 gm. ; carbohydrate, 251 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 

Breakfast : V 2 orange 

Shredded wheat. . 

Milk 

Toast 

Butter 

Coffee 

Cream, thin 

Sugar 

10 :30 A. M. Milk 

Luncheon : Cream of potato 
12:30 P. M. soup 

Minced chicken . . 

Rice 

Buttered carrots. . 

Whole wheat bread 

Butter 

Vanilla ice cream 

3 :30 P. M. Orangeade 

x / 2 cup juice 

Vz cup water 

1 tsp. sugar 

6 :30 P. M. Lamb chop 

Creamed peas 

Bread 

Butter 

Chocolate 

Blanc-mange .... 
Whipped cream . . 

Tea 

Sugar 

9 :30 P. M. Iced cocoa 



MEASURE 



OUNCES 



CAL- 
ORIES 



x / 2 med. 


4.7 


50 


1 biscuit 


1.0 


100 


l / 2 cup 


4.0 


80 


1 slice 


0.7 


50 


Yz tbsp. 


0.3 


50 


1 cup 


8.0 




2 tbsp. 


1.0 


56 


2 tsp. 


3 


35 


% cup 


5.1 


100 


Vs cup 


6.1 


150 


3 A cup 


1.6 


100 


3 A cup 


3.0 


50 


H cup 


7.0 


75 


1 slice 


1.4 


100 


y 2 tbsp. 


0.3 


50 


Ys cup 


3.0 


150 


1 cup 


8.0 


62 


1 large 


2.4 


150 


y 2 cup 


4.0 


100 


1 slice 


0.7 


50 


Vz tbsp. 


0.3 


50 



cup 


2.8 


150 


tbsp. 


0.5 


50 


cup 


8.0 




tsp. 


0.4 


35 


cup 


9.0 


161 




2004 



^ee Dr. Coleman's High Calory Diet in "Fever Diets," page 365. 



350 



HOSPITAL DIETS 



MEDIUM CONVALESCENT DIET 



For 2601 Calories a Day: 
fat, 125 gm. 



Approximate value — protein, 90 gm. ; 
carbohydrate, 255 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



MEASURE 



OUNCES 



CAL- 
ORIES 



Breakfast 



10 :30 A. M. 



Luncheon : 
12:30 P. M. 



3:30 P. M. 



6:30 P. M. 



9:30 P. M. 



Oatmeal 

Milk 

Toast 

Butter 

Coffee 

Cream, thin 

Sugar 

Egg Nog 

Crackers 

Cream of green pea 
soup, strained. . 

White bread 

Butter 

Sirloin steak, 
broiled (lean).. 

Baked potato 

Spinach 

Apple tapioca . . . 

Orangeade 

y 2 cup juice 
y 2 cup water 
1 tsp. sugar 
Crackers 

Broiled halibut 

steak 

Tomato Sauce . . . 

Toast 

Butter 

Tea 

Sugar .....' 

Rice pudding .... 
Thin cream 

Milk 

Crackers 



1 cup 
H cup 

2 slices 
1 tbsp. 

1 cup 

2 tbsp. 
2 tsp. 



cup 



1 cup 

2 slices 
1 tbsp. 

Slice 

3^"xl^"x34' 

1 med. 

V2 cup 

3 A cup 

1 cup 



Slice 

4y 2 "x2y 4 "xV 

4 tbsp. 



! slices 
tbsp. 
cup 

J tsp. 

H cup 

y 4 cup 

H cup 



7.9 
4.0 
1.4 
0.5 
8.0 
1.0 
0.4 

8.5 
0.9 

7.8 
1.5 
0.5 
3.0 

3.0 
4.0 

5.4 

8.0 



0.9 

3.0 

2.0 
1.5 

0.5 
8.0 
0.4 
3.3 
1.8 

5.0 
0.9 



100 

80 

100 

100 

56 

35 

230 
100 

150 

100 
100 
150 

100 

20 

150 

65 



100 
100 

80 
100 
100 

35 

150 
100 

100 
100 

2601 



CONVALESCENT DIET 



35i 



FULL CONVALESCENT DIET 



For 3000 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 103 gm. ; 
fat, 140 gm. ; carbohydrate, 326 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



MEASURE 



OUNCES 



CAL- 
ORIES 



Breakfast 



10:30 A. M. 



Luncheon : 
12:30 P. M. 



3 :30 P. M. 
6.30 P. M. 



9 :30 P. M. 



Farina 

Milk 

Toast 

Butter 

Egg, coddled .... 

Coffee 

Cream, thin 

Sugar 

Orangeade 

% cup juice 

Yi cup water .... 

2 tsp. sugar 

Crackers 

Cream of corn 

soup 

Whole wheat bread 

Butter 

Baked ham, lean 

Mashed potato . . . 

Cauliflower 

Norwegian prune 

pudding 

Custard sauce . . . 

Iced cocoa 

Crackers 



Creamed salmon, 
White sauce 

Toast 

Butter 

Tea 

Sugar 

Tapicoa custard. 

Egg Nog 




100 

80 

100 

100 

70 

'55 
35 

85 



100 
150 

200 
100 
150 

150 
75 

150 
100 

161 
100 

300 

100 

100 

35 

150 

230 
2976 



352 



HOSPITAL DIETS 



House Diet 

A Normal or House Diet, meaning the diet usual for 
normal people. It is used for patients who are more or less 
confined by incapacities other than illness, e. g., a broken leg, 
etc. Its protein content and its caloric value should be suf- 
ficient for the individual's needs. As the patient is usually 
somewhat inactive a daily dietary furnishing from 70 to 90 
grams of protein and 1800 to 2200 calories would meet the 
average requirement. The choice of foods may be rather 
wide, less expensive foods being used where cost must be 
kept at a low level. Laxative foods should be incorporated 
in the diet. Very rich foods or those liable to cause diges- 
tive disturbances should of course be avoided. 



HOUSE DIET FOR WARDS, 1 NO. I 

SAMPLES OF HOUSE DIET: BREAD AND BUTTER AND EITHER MILK, TEA 
OR COFFEE SERVED WITH HOUSE DIET AT EACH MEAL. 
Breakfast Dinner Supper 



Oatmeal 


Vegetable Soup 


Meat Cakes 


Creamed Beef or 


Roast Beef, Gravy- 


Apricot Sauce 


Kippered Herring 


Boiled Potatoes 


Toast 


Toast 


Buttered Onions 
Tapicoa Cream 




Oatmeal 


Vegetable Soup 


Cornmeal Mush 


Creamed Ham 


Escalloped Fish 


Cold Roast Beef 


Toast 


Steamed Potatoes 


Prunes 


French Rolls 


Peas 

Cornstarch Pudding 


Toast 


Hominy 


Split Pea Soup 


Fish Chowder 


Scrambled Eggs 


Pot Roast 


Crackers 


Toast 


Boiled Potatoes 


Peach Sauce 




Vegetables in Season 


Toast 




Apple and Rice Pud- 






ding 




Oatmeal 


Vegetable Soup 


Ham Omelet, or 


Bacon 


Steamed Fish 


Macaroni and Cheese, 


Toast 


White Sauce 


or Creamed Rice, or 


French Rolls 


Riced Potatoes 


Meat Loaf 




Creamed Carrots 


Apple Sauce 




Sago Pudding 


Cake 
Toast 



1 "St. Luke's Dietary," St. Luke's Hospital, New York City. 



HOUSE DIET 



353 



Breakfast 



Dinner 



Supper 



Hominy 


Vermicelli Soup 


Baked Beans and 


Meat Hash 


Beef Stew with 


Pork 


Toast 


Vegetables 


Brown Bread 




Steamed Potatoes 


Apricot Sauce 




Lemon Jelly 


Toast 


Oatmeal 


Vegetable Soup 


Cold Roast Beef 


Corned Beef Hash 


Roast Beef, Gravy 


Creamed Rice 


Toast 


Boiled Potatoes 


Prunes 




Vegetable in Season 


Toast 




Bread Pudding 


Cake 




Caramel Sauce 




Hominy 


Clear Soup 


Cold Roast Beef 


Fish Balls 


Boiled Mutton 


Creamed Potatoes 


Toast 


Steamed Potatoes 


Peach Sauce 




Squash 


Toast 




Apple or Rice Pud- 






ding or Jellied Prunes 





Diets are occasionally changed according to Market and House 
conditions. 

HOUSE DIET FOR WARDS, NO. II 

Breakfast Dinner Supper 



Oatmeal 
Creamed Ham 
Toast 



Black Bean Soup 
Pot Roast 
Riced Potatoes 
Sliced Beets 
Ice Cream 



Cold Roast Beef 
Macaroni and Cheese 
Stewed Apricots 
Toast 



Hominy 

Scrambled Eggs 
Toast 



Vegetable Soup 
Escalloped Fish 
Mashed Potatoes 
Vegetables in Season 
Tapioca Pudding 



Fish Chowder 
Crackers 
Prunes 
Toast 



Oatmeal 

Kippered Herring 
or Creamed Beef 
Toast 



Split Pea Soup 
Beef Stew with 

Vegetables 
Steamed Potatoes 
Baked Rice Pudding 



Minced Meat 
Potato Salad 
Apple Sauce 
Toast 



Hominy 
Codfish Balls 
French Rolls 
Toast 



Vegetable Soup 
Steamed Fish 

Egg Sauce 
Mashed Potatoes 
Carrots and Peas 
Chocolate Cornstarch 

Pudding 



Salmon Loaf 
Escalloped Potatoes, 
or Creamed Potatoes 
Peach Sauce 
Spice Cake 
Toast 



354 



HOSPITAL DIETS 



Breakfast 



Dinner 



Supper 



Oatmeal 
Meat Cakes 
Creamed Potatoes 
Toast 



Vegetable Soup 
Boiled Corn Beef 
Steamed Potatoes 
Boiled Cabbage 
Creamy Rice Pudding 



Baked Beans and 

Pork 
Brown Bread 
Apricot Sauce 
Toast 



Hominy 

Corn Beef Hash 

Toast 



Clear Soup 
Fricassee of Chicken 
Riced Potatoes 
String Beans 
Lemon Jelly or 
Custard 



Cold Meat 
Corn Meal Mush 
Apple Sauce 
Ribbon Cake 
Toast 



Oatmeal 

Liver and Bacon 

Muffins 

Toast 



Vegetable Soup 
Roast Beef 
Boiled Potatoes 
Vegetables in Season 
Sago Pudding 



Cold Roast Beef 
Boiled Rice 
Stewed Apricots 
Toast 



HOUSE DIET FOR WARDS, NO. Ill 
Breakfast Dinner Supper 



Hominy 
Creamed Eggs 
Toast 



Vegetable Soup 
Pot Roast, Gravy 
Steamed Potatoes 
Vegetables in Season 
Tapioca Pudding 



Hungarian Goulash 
Stewed Prunes 
Toast 



Oatmeal 
Meat Hash 
Toast 



Vegetable Soup 
Escalloped Fish 
Riced Potatoes 
Boiled Onions 
Bread Pudding 



Cold Roast Beef 
Spaghetti a la 

Italienne 
Apricot Sauce 
Toast 



Hominy 

Liver and Bacon 

Muffins 
Toast 



Vegetable Soup 
Roast Mutton 
Riced Potatoes 
Creamed Carrots 
Cornstarch Pudding 



Cold Roast Beef 
Lyonnaise Potatoes 
Peach Sauce 
Toast 



Oatmeal 
Boiled Eggs 
Toast 



Mutton Broth 

Baked Fish, Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes 

Parsnips 

Apple Tapioca, or 

Soft Custard 



Fish Hash 
Cookies 

Baked Apples, or 
Stewed Pears 
Toast 



DIETS TO MEET SPECIAL BODY NEEDS 355 



Breakfast 



Supper 



Oatmeal 

Kippered Herring, or 

Creamed Beef 

Toast 



Beef Broth 
Meat Stew 
Boiled Potatoes 
Vegetable in Season 
Sago Pudding 



Corn Meal Mush 
Cold Meat 
Scrambled Eggs 
Stewed Prunes 
Toast 



Oatmeal 

Corned Beef Hash 

Toast 



Onion Soup 

Pot Roast, Gravy 

Riced Potatoes 

String Beans 

Indian Meal Pudding 



Cold Meat 
Plain Cake 
Apple Sauce 
Toast 



Hominy- 
Scrambled Eggs 
Toast 



Vegetable Soup 
Boiled Corned Beef 
Boiled Potatoes 
Creamed Cabbage 
Rice Pudding 



Baked Beans and 

Pork 
Apricot Sauce 
Toast 



Diets to Meet Special Mechanical or Chemical Body- 
Needs 1 

Of these one may designate : 

1. High Calory Diet. — Such a diet is of higher caloric 
value than the individual to whom it is given would normally 
require. It is given to meet a need for energy caused by the 
more rapid metabolism which accompanies certain diseases, 
especially fevers. The diets are usually liquid and soft diets 
with the caloric value increased by the addition of carbohv- 
drates and fats, mostly in form of milk, sugar and cream. 
For details see "The Fever Diet," pages 358, 365, 424, 555. 

2. High Protein Diet contains a higher protein content 
than is needed under normal conditions. It is often used 
during convalescence when there has been much loss of body 
protein during illness as in some fevers. It is used during 
illness when loss of protein accompanies disease as in tuber- 
culosis, cancer, etc. A diet rich in non-stimulating protein 
is given in cases of excessive gastric acidity. 1 See pages 414, 

424, 44i, 444, 450 ; 

3. Low Protein Diet, as the name signifies, is one which 

1 In addition to pages given below, see index for other examples and various 
Combinations of these diets. 

2 Carter, Howe and Mascn, "Nutrition and Clinical Dietetics," Lea & Febiger, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 2nd Edition. 



356 HOSPITAL DIETS 

is made up of foods which furnish only small amounts of 
protein. This diet consists largely of carbohydrates and 
is used in cases of chronic nephritis and intestinal disorders 
when putrefaction is present. See pages 437, 485, 541, 544, 

555- 

4. High Carbohydrate Diet in which the protein is kept 
rather low but the percentage of carbohydrates is above 
normal. Such a diet is used in cases of intestinal putrefac- 
tion, or for fattening purposes. See pages 414, 437, 485. 

5. Low Carbohydrate Diet in which starches and sugars 
are restricted. This is used in cases where carbohydrates 
are poorly metabolized, as diabetes mellitus and in case of 
obesity. See pages 381, 393, 408. 

6. High Fat Diet. — Such a diet is usually of high caloric 
value and is used for fattening or when energy requirement 
is increased. A high fat content is also helpful in cases of 
constipation. See pages 414, 444. 

7. Low Fat Diet in which little fat is present. This ex- 
cludes fat meats, butter, cream, oil dressings and pastries 
and is used in obesity or any form of acidosis. See pages 
408, 495. 

8. Purin-Poor Diets. — Such diets exclude purin-bearing 
foods as meats, fish and glandular tissues and sometimes tea 
and coffee. If meat or fish is given it should be boiled rather 
than roasted or broiled. This diet is used in cases of gout, 
chronic nephritis and sometimes cancer. See page 398. 

9. Salt-Poor Diet. — It is impossible to arrange a diet 
that is absolutely "salt free", but a salt-poor diet consists of 
foods containing a very small percentage of sodium chloride 
and no salt is added in their preparation. Bread and butter 
with no added salt are used. This diet is beneficial in the 
treatment of edema in various forms, especially that resulting 
from renal disorders. See pages 437, 510, 514. A modified 
salt-poor diet is recommended in cases of gastric hyperacidity. 

10. Alkaline Diets. — These diets are rich in basic salts, 
and consist largely of green vegetables and fruits. They are 






DIETS TO MEET SPECIAL BODY NEEDS 357 

useful in conditions of acidosis, as in case of chronic 
nephritis and diabetes mellitus. See pages 384, 393, 510, 514. 

11. Diets Rich in Mineral Salts, as iron and calcium. 
These are made up of milk, eggs, vegetables and fruits, whole 
grains, dried fruits and nuts. Milk is especially rich in cal- 
cium. The iron content of milk is small but it is in a particu- 
larly available form so that it forms an important part of 
such diets. Iron-rich diets are used in the treatment of vari- 
ous forms of anemia. Calcium-rich diets are used in tuber- 
culosis. Calcium and iron are both of special importance in 
the feeding of children. See page 548. 

12. Roughage Diet, includes generous amounts of fresh 
and dried fruits, green vegetables, salad plants, fats, as butter 
and salad oils, whole grains for bread and breakfast cereals, 
molasses and plenty of water. Protein is kept low. 
The diet is recommended to counteract constipation. See 
page 480. 

13. Non-roughage Diet consists of foods almost free 
from indigestible material. It must be non-irritating, non- 
stimulating and easily digested so that there will be little 
residue. Such a diet may be given in cases of chronic 
diarrhea or as an intestinal test diet. See page 473. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 
HOSPITAL DIET 

1. Describe fluid, soft and convalescent diets. Under what condi- 

tions are they given? 

2. Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of an exclusive milk 

diet. 

3. What foods make up a lacto-farinaceous diet? When could such 

a diet be given? 

4. What conditions call for high calorie diet? 

5. How may the caloric value of a diet be increased without in- 

creasing protein? 

6. What conditions call for low protein in diet? 

7. When would a low carbohydrate diet be given? 

8. Under what conditions should pruins be excluded or restricted? 

9. What is meant by a salt-poor diet? 

10. When should salt-poor diets be given? 

11. What are the benefits from a roughage diet? 

12. What foods should be included in such a diet? 



CHAPTER XIV 

DIET IN DISEASE 

One of the most striking features of the modern treat- 
ment of disease is the careful attention that is quite gener- 
ally given to the proper selection of food. In the treatment 
of disorders of metabolism such as diabetes, gout and obesity, 
in many febrile diseases and in diseases affecting the diges- 
tive organs and kidneys, diet is given the major place. 

While a nurse may seldom be called upon to assume com- 
plete responsibility in the choosing of food, a knowledge of 
the type of diet suitable in different diseases will help her to 
follow a physician's directions more intelligently, to adapt 
prescribed diets to individual tastes and to avoid the use of 
foods that might prove distinctly harmful. 

THE FEVER DIET 1 

The dietetic treatment of those diseases which are char- 
acterised by fever has undergone revolutionary changes 
within the last few years. For more than two thousand years 
patients with fever were practically starved and often de- 
prived of water. About 1830 Graves recommended a diet 
furnishing some 300 calories. The elder Flint popularized 
the milk diet, containing from 1000 to 1200 calories, about 
1870. From the 90' s on the so-called liberal diets were ad- 
vocated in Russia, England and America. These diets, how- 
ever, contained too much protein and too little fuel. 

In 1907 Coleman and Shaffer began a study of the me- 
tabolism in typhoid fever, which served as the foundation 
for the more extended studies of Coleman and DuBois. 

1 Through the kindness of Dr. Warren Coleman, "The Fever Diet" was re- 
written under his supervision from his work appearing in "Nelson Loose-Leaf 
Living Medicine," published by Thomas Nelson & Sons, New York, N. Y. 

358 



THE FEVER DIET 359 

While these investigations were confined to typhoid fever, 
the facts which were discovered are believed to be generally 
applicable to many other febrile diseases. 

Metabolism in Fever. — All the processes of metab- 
olism are increased in fevers — the fires of the body burn 
under forced draught — and to meet this condition a patient 
with fever requires more, rather than less food. 

The investigations of Coleman and DuBois have brought 
out the fact that the fuel of choice for the production of in- 
creased energy is carbohydrate and that the fever diet should 
contain preferably a predominant amount of this foodstuff. 
But fat also is useful and when carbohydrate cannot be 
given freely may be increased to large amounts. 

When a patient with fever does not receive sufficient food, 
the food reserves of the body are consumed to supply the 
deficit. If the fever is high, the carbohydrate reserve is 
quickly exhausted — probably within a few hours. There- 
after, the fat and the muscles are called upon to meet the 
extra demands. The extent to which the muscles become in- 
volved is indicated by the increase of the nitrogen output in 
the urine. Formerly it was not thought possible, through 
diet, to protect the tissues of the body completely during 
fever, but the studies of Shaffer and Coleman have proved 
that the patient can be brought into complete equilibrium. 

The Total Food Required. — "Broadly speaking the 
diet should be arranged with the view of keeping the patient 
in complete metabolic equilibrium, that is, equilibrium of 
energy and equilibrium of substance. If the diet should fa: 1 
in either of these respects it cannot be considered adequate. 
Patients may survive an inadequate diet as many patients 
have survived various degrees of starvation, but there is no 
physiological basis upon which such a diet may be de- 
fended." 1 

The increase in metabolism which is characteristic of prob- 
ably all fevers varies in extent, but for practical purposes it 

x Dr. Warren Coleman, "Nelson Loose-Leaf Living Medicine," Thomas Nelson 
& Sons, New York, N. Y. 



360 DIET IN DISEASE 

may be said that the higher the temperature, the more aetive 
the metabolism. This means that, contrary to the popular 
conception, the higher the fever, the greater is the need for 
food. (It should not be forgotten, however, that special con- 
ditions may exist or arise such as nausea and vomiting, in- 
testinal hemorrhage in typhoid fever or marked abdominal 
distension in pneumonia, which make it unwise to attempt 
to give the patient all the food he requires.) With tempera- 
tures under 103 ° F. the average increase in metabolism will 
probably not exceed 30% to 40% ; with higher temperatures 
the increase may amount to 50% or more. 

While it might be thought that a diet which furnished 
50% more energy than a patient requires when he is well 
would cover his needs during fever, according to Shaffer and 
Coleman some typhoid patients continue to lose nitrogen 
(for the most part from the muscles) until the energy 
value of the diet reaches 100% over the normal; in other 
words, some patients require twice as much food during a 
fever as when they are well. 

Expressed in terms of energy, adult fever patients require 
from 3000 to 5000 or even 6000 calories a day. 

The Carbohydrate and Fat Needs. — Since the greater 
part of the energy produced in the body in fever, as well as 
in health, is derived from carbohydrate and fat, these food- 
stuffs should predominate in the diet. 

Ordinarily the carbohydrate should furnish from one-half 
to two-thirds — preferably the latter — of the energy of the 
diet, but when a patient cannot take so much carbohydrate 
the fat should be proportionately increased. 

An average daily carbohydrate allowance would be from 
400-500 gm. ; it should not be allowed to fall below 50 gm. ; 
on the other hand it may be raised to 800 gm. 

An average daily fat allowance would be 100-150 gm. ; it 
may be increased in exceptional instances up to 300 gm. 

The Protein Need. — The amount of protein needed 
in fevers is only slightly greater than in health. Stating this 



THE FEVER DIET 361 

fact differently, the protein of the diet cannot be reduced as 
low in fever as in health without loss of body protein. 

The daily amount of protein in the fever diet should not 
be allowed to fall below 60 gm. nor does any benefit come 
from increasing it beyond 90 gm. Stated generally, a diet 
which furnishes sufficient energy will almost certainly con- 
tain enough protein. 

Method of Calculating Food Requirements. — The food 
requirement of a patient may be calculated from the body 
weight or from his surface area. That is, we may calculate 
the daily calory requirement per kilogram of body weight 
or the hourly calory requirement per square meter of sur- 
face. DuBois, who has published a "height-weight" chart 
for estimating surface area, advises this latter method as the 
more accurate. 

Starting with the basal calory requirement, which for the 
average man is 26 calories per kilogram of body weight per 
day or 40 calories per square meter of body surface per hour, 
and allowing a 50% increase to cover the extra heat produc- 
tion during fever, the calory requirement will be about 40 
calories per kilogram per day, or 60 calories per square 
meter of body surface per hour. Since it requires an extra 
supply of energy amounting to from 50% to 100% of the 
total heat production to protect the body protein the patient's 
requirement would be from 60 to 80 calories per kilogram 
of body weight per day or from 90 to 120 calories per square 
meter of surface per hour. 

For an adult this may mean a diet furnishing as high as 
3000 calories per day, or in some cases of typhoid fever 4500 
or even 6000 calories daily. 

Administration of Diet. — While the patient's food re- 
quirements may be as stated above, it does not follow that a 
diet so arranged can always be given. The individual's 
ability to utilize it must always be considered. "It is the pa- 
tient, not the disease, which must be fed." 1 Careful atten- 

*Dr. Warren Coleman, "Nelson Loose-Leaf Living Medicine," Thomas Nelson 
& Sons, New York, N. Y. 



362 DIET IN DISEASE 

tion should be given to a patient's preferences for food and 
to his peculiar dislikes. These will probably be more pro- 
nounced in sickness than in health. If the appetite is slug- 
gish willingness to eat may often be stimulated by talks with 
the patient about the effect his food intake will have on his 
recovery. The nurse may be able to do much in this way. 

Unless the patient really wants to eat, which is unusual, 
it is better to give comparatively small amounts during the 
first few days. Whether it should be liquid or not depends 
on the patient's attitude of mind. If he is able to masticate 
it thoroughly there is no objection to carefully selected solid 
food. The amount and variety of food should be increased 
as the patient's appetite and his ability to digest it may in- 
dicate. 

Cleansing the mouth is of importance in any febrile con- 
dition as the mouth is apt to acquire a disagreeable taste and 
should be cleansed before serving food. See "Details of 
Feeding," page 331. 

Kinds of Food to Use. — A high calory diet may be built 
up of such foods as milk, eggs, bread, cereals, potatoes, rice, 
apples and oranges, reinforced by concentrated fuel foods 
such as butter, cream, sugar and milk sugar. Milk sugar is 
especially adapted for this purpose, as on account of its lack 
of sweetness it can be added in considerable amounts to bev- 
erages, etc., without appreciably affecting their taste. 

Milk is always a staple article of diet for fever patients. 
It can be modified in many ways to increase its digestibility, 
such as diluting it with water, lime water, cereal water or 
effervescing water, by peptonizing it or by ferments such as 
are used in making Zoolak, Kumyss and Kefir. The flavor 
of milk may be disguised by the use of tea, coffee or cocoa. 
Milk is always the more readily digested if taken with 
crackers or toast. 

Well cooked cereals and gruels play an important part in 
these diets. They are nutritious in themselves and they are 
a means of acceptably adding cream and sugar. 

Eggs may be used, either mixed raw with milk and other 



THE FEVER DIET 363 

liquids, in soups and beverages, or served soft-cooked or in 
custards. The number of eggs should rarely exceed six a 
day. 

Broths and clear soups are valuable for variety and for 
stimulation of the gastric digestion. If thickened with some 
farinaceous substance such as tapioca, sago or fine dry bread 
or cracker crumbs, they are of material nutritive value. 

Plenty of water is recommended and acid drinks, not only 
because they are refreshing, relieve thirst, and aid in elim- 
ination of waste, but also because they may be made the 
vehicle for albumin and lactose. Although some authorities 
recommend as high as \]/ 2 to 2^ quarts daily, Dr. Coleman 
does not believe in the popular plan of forcing water. Enough 
should be grven however to keep the urine around 3 to 4 
pints. 

Cautions. — If the disease is complicated by digestive 
disturbances, or if the digestion becomes disordered, the diet 
must be rearranged as to quantity and kind to overcome the 
difficulty. 

The disturbances most often occurring with this diet are 
nausea, vomiting, tympanites and diarrhea. The mixtures of 
milk, cream, lactose and egg may be too rich and the develop- 
ment of such digestive troubles depends upon the patient's 
tolerance for these foods, as to whether or not he can take 
care of the quantities given. 

Large amounts of milk sugar sometimes cause vomiting. 
If this occurs the diet should be made very simple, possibly 
all food withheld for a few hours, and the diet continued 
with small amounts. 

Unless tympanites causes discomfort it may be ignored, 
but should it become distressing the diet should be altered. 
Eggs may be the disturbing element, sometimes the cream, 
but more often it is lactose. 

Diarrhea is most likely to be due to excess of cream. It 
can usually be controlled by changing the diet. Reducing the 
cream should be tried first and if this is not effective the 



364 



DIET IN DISEASE 



amount of lactose may be lessened and cream increased. 
Many cases have been controlled in this way. 

Diet in Convalescence. — With the more liberal diet 
now used during the febrile period the diet during con- 
valescence does not differ so much as formerly. The same 
type of food is used with the gradual addition of more solid 
food as the patient seems able to care for it. Meat is not 
advised until late in convalescence. 

Diet in Typhoid Fever 

By means of numerous studies of metabolism made upon 
typhoid patients in the calorimeter it has been established 
beyond doubt that the high calory diet is an essential part 
of the treatment of this disease. With a diet sufficiently 
high in fats and carbohydrates to cover the energy require- 
ments, the patient is able to maintain almost normal weight 
and is better able to withstand relapse if it should occur. It 
may be added that this diet does not make relapse more 
liable. The period of convalescence is greatly shortened and 
the patient escapes the intense hunger that used to follow the 
starvation treatment. 

HIGH CALORY-FOOD LIST 1 



NAME 


AMOUNT 


I CALORIES 


Apple sauce" 


1 ounce 


30 


Apple, pared and cored 


1 medium 


about 75 


Bread, average slice 


30 grams 


80 


Butter. 1 pat 


13 grams 


about 100 


Cocoa, 1 rounding teaspoon 


grams 


25 


Crackers, soda (1 cracker) .... 


9 grams 


36 


Crackers. Uneeda (1 cracker).. 


6 grams 


25 


Cream (20 per cent 3 ) 


1 ounce (30 c.c.) . . 


60 


Egg 


1 average size .... 


75 



x Dr. Warren Coleman. "Nelson Loose-Leaf Living Medicine," Thomas Nelson 
& Sons, New York, N. Y. 

2 Cooked without sugar. 

Approximately the same as the top 2 ounces from a quart bottle of milk that 
has stood at least six hours. This is not heavy cream. To add lactose to milk 
boil 15 grams ( l / 2 ounce) of lactose in 30 c.c. (1 ounce) of water; cool and add 
to milk. 



THE FEVER DIET 



365 



NAME 

Egg white 

Egg yolk 

Farina (cooked) 

Lactose (milk-sugar) 

Lactose (milk-sugar) 

Lemon juice 

Milk (whole) 

Orange 

Orange juice 

Oatmeal (rolled oats, cooked) 

Potato 

Rice (boiled) 

Sugar, cane 

Sugar, cane 

Toast 



AMOUNT 



white of 1 egg. . . 

yolk of 1 egg 

1 heaping tbsp. . . 

1 heaping tsp. 

1 measured ounce, 

18 grams 

1 ounce 

1 ounce 

1 large 

1 ounce 

1 heaping tbsp. . . . 

1 medium 

1 heaping tbsp. . . . 

1 heaping tsp 

1 level tbsp 

average slice 



CALORIES 



15 

60 

25-30 

40 

72 
12 
20 
100 
15 
36 
100 
60 
40 
56 
80 



about 



Food Combinations and Menus 1 

HIGH CALORY DIET 
Dr. Warren Coleman 

The following food combinations and menus will be found 
of assistance in administering the high calory diet : 

For 1000 Calorics a Day: calories 

Milk, 1 quart (1000 c.c.) 700 

Cream, iy 3 ounces (50 c.c.) 100 

Lactose, \ 2 / 3 ounces (50 grams) 200 

This furnishes eight feedings, each containing: 

Milk, 4 ounces 80 

Cream, 2 drams 15 

Lactose, 6 grams 24 

Or, 

Eggs, 2 150 

Lactose, 30 grams ( 1 ounce) 120 

Sugar, 25 grams (Y5 ounce) 100 

Milk, 800 c.c. (26^ ounces) 560 

Cream, 30 c.c. ( 1 ounce) 60 

Lemon juice, 30 c.c. (1 ounce) 12 

Coffee, 150 c.c. (5 ounces) 00 

Tea, 150 c.c. (5 ounces) 00 

1 Dr. Warren Coleman. "Nelson Lcose-Leaf Living Medicine," Thomas Nelson 
& Sons, Psew York, N. Y. 

*Some of these combinations appeared in the Am. J. M. Sc. 143-77, 1912; the 

others have been arranged by Miss Estelle Magill, Head Nurse of the Russell 
Sage Institute of Pathology. 



366 DIET IN DISEASE 

This furnishes seven feedings : 

One feeding containing: 1 CALORIES 

Coffee, 150 c.c. (5 ounces) 00 

Egg, 1 75 

Lactose, 30 grams ( 1 ounce) 120 

Sugar, 5 grams 20 

One feeding containing : 

Tea, 150 c.c. (5 ounces) 00 

Cream, 30 c.c. ( 1 ounce) 60 

Sugar, 5 grams 20 

Four feedings, each containing : 

Milk, 200 c.c. (6 2 / 3 ounces) 140 

One feeding containing : 2 

Egg, 1 75 

Sugar, 15 grams (y 2 ounce) 60 

Lemon juice, 30 c.c. (1 ounce) . .• 12 

Water, 4 or 5 ounces 00 

For 1500 Calorics a Day: 

Milk, \y 2 quarts (1500 c.c.) 1000 

Cream, \ 2 /$ ounces 100 

Lactose, 3^ ounces (100 grams) 400 

This furnishes six feedings, each containing: 

Milk, 8 ounces 160 

Cream, 2 drams 15 

Lactose, 16 grams 64 

Or, 

Eggs, 2 150 

Lactose, 110 grams (3% ounces) 440 

Sugar, 25 grams (% ounce) 100 

Milk, 800 c.c. (26^ ounces) 560 

Cream, 120 c.c. (4 ounces) 240 

Lemon juice, 30 c.c. ( 1 ounce) 12 

Coffee, 150 c.c. (5 ounces) 00 

Tea, 150 c.c. (5 ounces) 00 

This furnishes one feeding containing : 

Coffee, 150 c.c. (5 ounces) 00 

Egg, 1 75 

Lactose, 3 40 grams (\ l /$ ounces) 160 

Sugar, 5 grams (% ounce) 20 

One feeding containing : 

Tea, 150 c.c. (5 ounces) 00 

Cream, 50 c.c. (\ 2 /$ ounces) 100 

x Beat the egg lightly in a cup, dissolve lactose thoroughly in very hot coffee; 
pour over beaten egg, stirring constantly, strain, add sugar and serve. This 
may be served hot or iced. 

2 Dissolve sugar in water; add lemon juice and pour over beaten egg; add 
cracked ice, strain and serve. Or, dissolve sugar in water and put with other 
ingredients into a shaker; shake up thoroughly, strain and serve. 

3 Lactose to be thoroughly dissolved in very hot tea before adding cream. 



THE FEVER DIET 367 

CALORIES 

Lactose, 1 30 grams ( 1 ounce) 120 

Sugar, 5 grams 20 

Four feedings, each containing : 

Milk, 200 c.c. (6 2 / 3 ounces) 140 

Cream, 17 c.c, large tablespoonful 34 

One feeding containing: 

Egg, 1 75 

Lactose, 2 40 grams {V/z ounces) 60 

Sugar, 15 grams ( ]/ 2 ounce) 60 

Lemon juice, 30 c.c. ( 1 ounce) 12 

Water, 4 or 5 ounces 00 

For 2000 Calories a Day: 

Milk, V/ 2 quarts 1000 

Cream, 8 ounces (240 c.c.) 500 

Lactose, 4 ounces (120 grams) 500 

This furnishes seven feedings, each containing : 

Milk, 7 ounces 140 

Cream, 1 ounce 60 

Lactose, 18 grams 72 

Or, 

Eggs, 2 150 

Lactose, 125 grams (4 ounces) 500 

Sugar, 15 grams (Y 2 ounce) 60 

Milk, 1000 c.c. (32 ounces) 700 

Cream, 240 c.c. (8 ounces) 480 

Cocoa, 5 grams 25 

Orange juice, 60 c.c. (2 ounces) 30 

Lemon juice, negligible 00 

Coffee, 150 c.c. (5 ounces) 00 

This furnishes one feeding containing : 

Coffee, 150 c.c. (5 ounces) 00 

Egg, 1 75 

Lactose, 50 grams (\ 2 / 3 ounces) 200 

Sugar, 5 grams 20 

One feeding containing: 

Cocoa, 5 grams 25 

Milk, 120 c.c. (4 ounces) 80 

Cream, 60 c.c. (2 ounces) 120 

Lactose, 50 grams 200 

One feeding containing: 

Egg, 1 75 

Lactose, 40 grams (\ l / 3 ounces) 160 

Sugar, 10 grams 40 

Orange juice, 120 c.c. (4 ounces) 60 

Lemon juice, 1 to 2 teaspoonfuls 00 

lactose to be thoroughly dissolved in very hot tea before adding cream. 
2 Boil lactose and sugar in water for two minutes and cool before adding- 
lemon juice. 



368 DIET IN DISEASE 

Four feedings containing : calories 

Milk, 210 c.c. (7 ounces) 140 

Cream, 45 c.c. {\y 2 ounces) 90 

For 2500 Calories a Day: 

Milk, V/ 2 quarts 1000 

Cream, 8 ounces .• 500 

Lactose, 8 ounces (240 grams) 1000 

This furnishes seven feedings, each containing: 

Milk, 7 ounces 140 

Cream, 1 ounce 60 

Lactose, 36 grams 144 

Or, 

Milk, 1000 c.c 700 

Cream, 240 c.c. (8 ounces) 480 

Eggs, 3 225 

Lactose, 165 grams (5 J / 2 ounces) 660 

Sugar, 40 grams 160 

Bread, 1 slice, 30 grams 80 

Uneeda biscuit, 1 25 

Butter, 10 grams (y$ ounce) 80 

Orange juice, 120 c.c. (4 ounces) 60 

Lemon juice (l l / 2 ounces) 20 

This furnishes one feeding containing: 

Coffee, 150 c.c. (5 ounces) 00 

Egg, 1 75 

Lactose, 40 grams (V/3 ounces) 160 

Sugar, 5 grams 20 

Toast, 1 slice 80 

Butter, 10 grams 80 

One feeding containing: 

Egg, 1 75 

Lactose, 50 grams (1^ ounces) 200 

Orange juice, 120 c.c. (4 ounces) 60 

Sugar, 10 grams 40 

Lemon juice to taste. 
Water. 

One feeding containing: 

Egg, 1 75 

Milk, 200 c.c. (6 2 / 3 ounces) 140 

Cream, 40 c.c. (1^ ounces) 80 

Lactose, 25 grams (% ounce) 100 

Sugar, 5 grams 20 

Flavor with vanilla or nutmeg. 

One feeding containing: 

Lactose, 60 grams (2 ounces) 240 

Sugar, 20 grams (3/3 ounce) 60 

Lemon juice, 30 or 40 c.c. {\ l /z ounces) 15 

Four feedings, each containing: 

Milk, 200 c.c. (6 2 / 3 ounces) 140 



THE FEVER DIET 369 

CALORIES 

Cream, 50 c.c. (l 2 /z ounces) 100 

For 3000 Calorics a Day: 

Milk, \y 2 quarts 1000 

Cream, 1 pint (480 c.c.) 1000 

Lactose, 8 ounces 1000 

This furnishes eight feedings, each containing: 

Milk, 6 ounces 120 

Cream, 2 ounces 120 

Lactose, 1 ounce 120 

Or, 

Breakfast: 

Farina 100 

Toast, 1 slice (30 grams before toasting) 80 

Cream, 100 c.c. (3^ ounces) 200 

Butter, 8 grams 60 

Lactose, 40 grams (V/3 ounces) 160 

Sugar, 20 grams 80 

Coffee, 1 large cup or two small cups (300 c.c.) 00 

10 to 10:30 A M.: 

Milk, 200 c.c. (6 2 / 3 ounces) 140 

Cream, 50 c.c. {\ 2 /z ounces) 100 

Dinner : x 

Eggs, 2 150 

Potato, 1 medium, about 100 

Bread, 1 slice, or roll, 1, about 80 

Butter, 30 grams (1 ounce) 230 

Apple, 1 medium (pared and cored) 75 

Sugar, 15 grams (^ ounce) 60 

3 to A P. M.: 

Tea, 150-200 c.c 00 

Lactose, 50 grams 200 

Sugar, 5 grams 20 

Cream, 50 c.c. (1^ ounces) 100 

Crackers, 3 Uneeda, or 2 soda, toasted 75 

Butter, 8 grams 62 

Supper : 

Rice, 25 grams, or farina, cooked with 100 

Milk, 100 c.c. (3y 3 ounces) 70 

Toast, 30 grams (1 slice) 80 

Butter, 8 grams 62 

Sugar, 5 grams (for cereal) 20 

Cream, 60 c.c. (2 ounces) 120 

Orange, 1 slice 100 

Sugar, 5 grams (with orange) 20 

• ^Potato baked, served with butter. Apple baked with 15 grams sugar and 

about 8 grams butter. Some patients will eat more butter if unsalted butter is 
used in the diet. 



370 DIET IN DISEASE 

8 to 9 P. M.: calories 

Cocoa, 5 grams 25 

Sugar, 10 grams 40 

Milk, 150 c.c. (5 ounces) 105 

Cream, 30 c.c. (1 ounce) 60 

Lactose, 25 grams 100 

For 3900 Calories a Day: 

Milk, \y 2 quarts 1000 

Cream, 1 pint 1000 

Lactose, 16 ounces (480 grams) 1900 

This furnishes eight feedings, each containing: 

Milk, 6 ounces 120 

Cream, 2 ounces 120 

Lactose, 2 ounces 240 

For 3910 Calorics a Day: 1 Approximate values — protein, 90 gm. ; 
fat, 250 gm. ; carbohydrate, 318 gm 

Schedule of Feeding : 9 A. M., 1, 3, 7, 10 P. M. and 1 and 4 A. M. 

Milk, 6 ounces ; total, 1260 c.c 860 

Cream, 2 ounces ; total, 420 c.c 840 

Lactose, 10 gm. ; total, 70 gm 280 

Total Calories 1980 

At 11 A. M.: 

Egg, 1 80 

Mashed potato (20 gm.) 20 

Custard (4 ounces) 250 

Toast or bread ( 1 slice) 80 

Butter (20 gm.) 150 

Coffee 00 

Cream (2 oz.) 120 

Lactose (20 gm.) 80 

Total Calories : 780 

At 5 P. M.: 

Egg, 1 80 

Cereal, 3 tablespoonsfuls 150 

Cream, 2 ounces 120 

Apple sauce, 1 ounce 30 

Tea 00 

Cream, 3 ounces 180 

Lactose, 20 gm 80 

Total Calories 640 

At 7 A.M.: 

Egg, 1 80 

Toast, 1 slice 80 

Butter, 20 gm 150 

x Dr. Coleman, "American Journal of Medical Sciences," 1912, page 77. 



THE FEVER DIET 371 

CALORIES 

Coffee 00 

Cream. 2 ounces 120 

Lactose, 20 gm 80 

Total Calories 510 

Milk-sugar lemonade may be substituted for the milk mixture at 
3 o'clock. 

For 5589 Calorics a Day: Approximate values — protein 122 gm. ; 
fat, 293 gm. ; carbohydrates, 515 gm. 

Milk, 5 ounces, at 9 and 11 A. M., 1 P. M.; 1200 c.c 820 

Cream, 2 ounces at 3, 7 and 10 P. M. ; 480 c.c 1440 

Lactose, 15 gm., at 1 and 4 A. M. ; 120 c.c 480 

Total Calories 2740 

At 11 A. M.: 

Eggs, 2 160 

Toast. 2 slices 160 

Butter, 20 gm 150 

Mashed potato, 70 gm 70 

Custard, 8 ounces 500 

Total Calories 1040 

At 5 P. M.: 

Egg, 1 80 

Toast, 2 slices 160 

Butter, 20 gm 150 

Cereal, 6 tablespoonfuls 290 

Cream, 4 ounces 240 

Apple sauce, 1 ounce 30 

Cream, 2 ounces 120 

Lactose, 20 gm 80 

Total Calories 1 150 

At 7 A. Mr. 

Egg, 1 80 , 

Toast, 2 slices 160 

Butter, 20 gm 150 

Coffee 00 

Cream, 3 ounces 180 

Lactose, 20 gm 80 

Total Calories 650 

For 5570 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein 106 to 115 
gm. ; fats, 212 gm. ; carbohydrates, 450 to 570 gm. 

Milk, 5 ounces, at 9 and 11 A. M.. 1 P. M. ; 1050 c.c 700 

Cream, 3 ounces, at 7 and 10 P. M. ; 630 c.c 1260 

Lactose, 15 gm., at 1 and 4 A. M. ; 105 gm 420 

Total Calories 3010 

At 11 A. M.: 

Eggs, 2 160 

Potato (mashed) , 80 gm 80 



372 DIET IN DISEASE 



CALORIES 

Custard, 8 ounces 500 

Creamed chicken, 1 ounce 50 

Toast, 2 slices 150 

Total Calories 950 

At 5 P.M.: 

Toast, 2 slices 160 

Cereal, 2 tablespoonfuls 290 

Cream, 2 ounces 120 

Lactose, 20 gm 80 

Total Calories 650 

Use chicken only after convalescence is established. 
At 3 P.M.: 

Lemonade (lactose, 120 gm.) 

At 7 P. M.: 

Egg, 1 80 

Cereal, 5 tablespoonfuls 250 

Cream, 2 ounces 120 

Toast, 2 slices 160 

Butter, 20 gm 150 

Coffee 00 

Cream, 2 ounces 120 

Lactose, 20 gm 90 

Total Calories 960 

Other Typhoid Diets 
carter's typhoid diet without milk 1 

For 2600 Calorics a Day: Approximate values — protein 72 gm. (2j/j 
oz.) ; fat, 126 gm. (4 oz.) ; carbohydrates, 346. (12 oz.) 
6:30 A. M. Cup of hot coffee, sugar 8 gm. (3 ii), two slices zwie- 
back or toast (softened), butter. 
8 :30 A. M. One portion of oatmeal or Robinson's prepared barley. 

Six buttered crackers or saltines. 

Soup, various kinds, 180 c.c. (6 oz.). One soft egg. 
M. One medium sized baked potato mashed and prepared 

with butter and salt. Cup of hot, weak tea with sugar, 

8 gm. (5 ii). 

Two tablespoons of pudding — tapioca or bread. Six 

saltines and butter. One soft egg. 

Rice, farina or cream of wheat, 60 gm. (2 oz.), with 

butter, 30 gm. (1 oz.) and sugar. 15 gm. (y 2 oz.). 

Three slices buttered toast. One soft egg. 

Soup, 180 c.c. (6 oz.). 

1 Dr. H. S. Carter, "Diet Lists of the Presbyterian Hospital," New York. 
\V. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, Pa. 



10 :30 A. 


M. 


12:30 P. 


M. 


2 :30 P. 


M. 


4:30 P. 


M. 


6:30 P. 


M. 


8 :30 P. 


M. 



For 



8 A. 


M. 


10 A. 


M. 


12 Noon 


2 P. 


M. 


4 P. 


M. 


6 P. 


M. 


8 P. 


M. 


10 P. 


M. 


12 P. 


M. 


2 AM. 


4 A. 


M. 


6 A. 


M. 



THE FEVER DIET 373 

kinnicutt's typhoid mixed fluid diet 1 NO. I 

1900 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 98 gm. (3^3 
oz.), fat, 52 gm. {\ 2 /z oz.) ; carbohydrates, 150 gm. (5 oz.) 

^.. M. Milk and coffee, each 120 c.c. (4 oz.). 
Milk, hot or cold, 240 c.c. (8 oz.). 

Oatmeal gruel, 120 c.c. (4 oz.), with milk, 60 c.c. (2 oz.). 
Milk, 240 c.c. (8 oz.). 

Oatmeal gruel, 120 c.c. (4 oz.), with milk, 60 c.c. (2 oz.). 
Custard with lactose (full cup). 
Hot milk, 240 c.c. (8 oz.). 

Whey, 180 c.c. (6 oz.), with one whole egg and sherry. 
Oatmeal gruel, 120 c.c. (4 oz.), milk, 60 c.c. (2 oz.). 
Milk, 240 c.c. (8 oz.). 

Broth, 240 c.c. (8 oz.), with one whole egg. 
Milk, 240 c.c. (8 oz.). 

kinnicutt's typhoid mixed fluid diet 1 NO. II 
(lower protein) 

For 2300 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 71 gm. (2j/$ 
oz.) ; tat, 81 gm. {l 2 /z oz.) ; carbohydrates, 160 gm. (5^ oz.) 

8 A. M. Milk and coffee, each 120 c.c. (4 oz.). 

10 A. M. Milk, hot or cold, 240 c.c. (8 oz.). 

12 Noon Oatmeal gruel, 120 c.c. (4 oz.), with milk, 60 c.c. (2 oz.). 

2 P. M. Junket with cane- and milk-sugar. 

4 P. M. Oatmeal gruel, 120 c.c. (4 oz.), with milk, 60 c.c. (2 oz.). 

6 P. M. Junket with cane- and milk-sugar. 

8 P. M. Hot milk, 240 c.c. (8 oz.). 

10 P. M. Whey, 180 c.c, with one whole egg and sherry. 

12 P. M. Oatmeal gruel, 120 c.c. (4 oz.), with milk, 60 c.c. (2 oz.) 

2 A. M. Junket with cane- and milk-sugar. 

4 A. M. Milk, 240 c.c. (8oz.). 

6 A. M. Milk, 240 c.c. (8 oz.). 

15 gm. ( l / 2 oz.) of lactose added to the four milk feedings. 

These typhoid fluid diets may be further augmented by the 
addition of the following articles : 

Lactose or cane-sugar, 30 gm. (1 oz.), 120 calories. 

Pea soup, 180 c.c. (1 cup, 6 oz.), 192 calories (7.5 gm. protein). 

Bean soup, 180 c.c. (1 cup, 6 oz.), 242 calories (12 gm. protein). 

Soda cracker (one), 30 calories (.5 gm. protein). 

Cream 100 c.c. (3^oz.).] 

Sugar or lactose 60 gm. (2 oz.). \ 500 calories. 

Gruel 150 c.c. (5 oz.).J 

x Dr. F. P. Kinnicutt, "Diet Lists of the Presbyterian Hospital," New York. 
W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, Pa. 



374 DIET IN DISEASE 

Kinds of Food to Use in a Mixed Typhoid Diet 1 . — When 
the typhoid patient is not limited to a fluid diet, foods may 
be chosen from the following : 

1. Milk in various forms. 

2. Broths — beef, veal, chicken, mutton. 

3. Soups — potato, pea, bean, carefully strained and 
thickened with flour, milk, cream and egg. 

4. Gruels — always strained. 

5. Eggs, raw or soft-cooked. 

6. Cream and butter. 

7. Custards, ice cream and sherbets, blanc manges, and 
gelatin jellies. Milk sugar used for sweetening will 
increase the fuel value. 

8. Toast. 

9. Breakfast cereals, thoroughly cooked and strained. 

10. Rice, baked and mashed potatoes. 

11. Apple sauce, orange juice and grape juice. 

DIET IN OTHER FEBRILE DISEASES 
Scarlet Fever 

Food Needs. — As in other fever conditions a rather high 
calory diet should be given, but because of danger of serious 
kidney complications the proteins should be kept low. Eggs 
are excluded at first and no meat should be given until 
danger of complications is past. 

Kinds of Food to Use. — The diets recommended for 
typhoid, including milk gruels and milk toast but without 
eggs, are quite suitable. 

Should indication of nephritis appear diets recommended 
for that condition should be adopted. 

Whooping Cough 

Food Needs. — The danger in whooping cough is from 
undernourishment. Paroxysms of coughing often give rise 

x Mary Swartz Rose, Ph.D., "Feeding the Family," The Macmillan Co., New 
York, 1921. 



THE FEVER DIET 375 

to vomiting and these frequently follow so closely the tak- 
ing of food that it has no chance to become assimilated. 
In such cases it is better to give food in smaller quantities 
and often, possibly every two hours, rather than to depend 
on the regular three meals a day. 

Kinds of Food to Use. — The diet should be made up of 
foods that can be quickly digested and assimilated. Anything 
that is at all irritating or liable to excite coughing, such as 
dry toast or the bran of coarse breads and cereals, should be 
avoided. The liquid and soft high calory diets recommended 
for typhoid fever would be suitable to use. 

Measles 

Food Needs are about the same as with any infectious 
disease accompanied by fever. There is nothing to be espe- 
cially avoided and the calory value should be kept up. 

Kinds of Food to Use. — Soft and semi-fluid food should 
be used — gruels, soft-cooked eggs and gelatin dishes. 

Cautions. — Because of the nature of the disease, which is 
characterized by eruptions not only on the surface of the 
body but on the mucous linings of the intestines, care should 
be taken to avoid food that would be in any way irritating 
to these surfaces. After the eruption disappears the diet may 
be returned rapidly to normal. 

Influenza 1 (Grippe) 

The fever is the determining factor in this disease and the 
patient may have any simple foods that his appetite calls for. 
following for the most part the suggestions for feeding in 
fevers in which there are no special dietary indications. 
Since the manifestations of grippe are so varied, the diet may 
often be judiciously regulated in view of the particular 
organs affected, i.e., if the bronchial tree is principally in- 
volved the feedings should be regulated as in bronchitis ; if 
the gastro-intestinal form is present, due regard must be had 

^Carter, Howe and Mason, "Nutrition and Clinical Dietetics," Lea & Febiger, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 



376 DIET IN DISEASE 

to giving foods which are non-irritating to the stomach and 
intestine ; when there is vomiting, particular care is neces- 
sary. In these circumstances, after a few hours of ab- 
solute gastric rest one may give small amounts of butter- 
milk, either plain or diluted with Vichy. 

Delafield's mixture 1 is often well borne when the patients 
can take nothing else. This consists of equal parts of milk, 
cream and Vichy, with sodium bicarbonate 20 grains, cerium 
oxalate 10 grains, to each 4 ounces of the mixture. This 
should be given iced and in dram doses, at first every twenty 
to thirty minutes, gradually increasing the amount and 
lengthening the period. Sometimes iced malted milk will be 
retained or egg white with orange juice and powdered ice. 
Afterward the patient can take a moral liberal diet of soft 
solids, then increasing rapidly to full diet. 

Throat Affections 

Food Needs. — Diets in such affections as tonsilitis, quinsy 
and diphtheria with attending fever, do not differ essen- 
tially from those used in other fever conditions. The energy 
requirement should be fully met, as a well-nourished body 
may more easily combat anemia or bronchial and pulmon- 
ary complications which sometimes follow these diseases. 

Kinds of Food to Use. — The inflammation of the throat 
makes the act of swallowing painful and food that is least 
irritating should be given, such as liquids and semi-solids. 
The latter are sometimes less painful to swallow than liquids. 
If a diet of high calory value is used it is possible to lessen 
the total volume. Diets recommended for typhoid fever may 
be used to advantage with these diseases. 

Acute Rheumatic Fever 2 

"During the past few years there has been a complete 
change in the conception of the etiology of this disease. The 
humoral theory or, to put it in modern language, the theory 

*See page 181. 

-Carter, Howe and Mason, "Nutrition and Clinical Dietetics," Lea & Febiger, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 2nd Edition, 1921. 



THE FEVER DIET 2,77 

of a disturbed body metabolism, as the cause of this disease, 
has been entirely superseded by the proved infectious origin 
of much of this form of articular inflammation. Much ex- 
perimental work has been done to prove this latter and 
numerous observers have been able, by inoculation of animals 
with cultures from the throats of rheumatic patients, to pro- 
duce attacks of joint inflammation which closely resemble 
the conditions found in this disease. The offending organism 
said to be responsible for this, and obtained from the tonsils, 
abscesses at the roots of teeth or, in fact, from any focus of 
pus infection, is a form of streptococcus. Whether there is 
a distinct strain of this bacterium which causes only rheu- 
matic lesions is exceedingly doubtful. It is much more likely 
that it is one of the ordinary groups of streptococci, which, 
for some as yet unknown reason, has a predilection for the 
serous membranes of the body, particularly those of the 
joints and heart. The humoral theory of this disease there- 
fore has been almost completely given up for a bacterial con- 
ception. It is still true that marked metabolic changes ac- 
company the condition, as shown by the excessive acid per- 
spiration and excessive urinary acidity, greater than that 
which is found in any other disease except possibly in a 
marked diabetic acidosis. It is not at all unlikely that the 
metabolic changes which often precede a rheumatic mani- 
festation may have much to do with lowered resistance to 
the streptococci as is the case in rheumatism." 

Food Needs. — So far as the infection is concerned the 
food requirements would be practically the same as in gen- 
eral fever conditions but the hyperacidity of the excretions, 
especially the sweat and urine, must be considered and call 
for a more restricted diet. 

Kinds of Food to Use. — "For the first few days of acute 
fever after a thorough intestinal purge, the diet should con- 
sist mainly of milk products and gruels, such as plain milk, 
milk cream and Vichy, junket, Vichy and buttermilk, barley, 
rice and farina gruels. Water in large amounts is grateful, 
either plain as Vichy, or as orange and lemonade made with 



378 DIET IN DISEASE 

very little sugar. Feedings should be given every two or 
three hours." 

Later when the acute stage of illness has passed, other 
cereals, stale bread and butter, may be added as the patient 
desires more food. Oranges and scraped or baked apple may 
be used, also baked potato, then green vegetables. Of pro- 
tein foods other than milk, Qgg is first given. After ten days 
or two weeks of normal temperature chicken and white 
meated fish, as bass, cod and halibut may be given. 

Foods to Avoid. — Exclude meat and meat soups from the 
diet. Because of their purin content they tend to increase 
the uric acid in the blood. Sugar should be used very spar- 
ingly, if at all, since it may produce acid fermentation in the 
digestive tract. Tea and coffee may be given very moderately 
and well diluted with milk or water. Avoid all preserves, 
cakes, rich, sweet food and highly acid fruits. Strawberries, 
tomatoes and rhubarb are to be avoided. Their ill effect is 
often observed, although not scientifically accounted for. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 
THE FEVER DIET 

1. What is the cause of loss of weight in fevers? 

2. How may this be avoided? 

3. How many calories should the diet in the average fever case 

furnish? 

4. How is the protein requirement in fever compared with that in 

health ? 

5. What type of food should predominate in the fever diet? 

6. How is the food requirement determined? 

7. What difficulties may arise in the use of these diets and how may 

they be overcome? 

8. What are the advantages of a high calory diet in typhoid fever? 

9. Give a list of food that may be used in typhoid fever. 

10. Outline a day's dietary furnishing about 3000 calories. 

OTHER FEBRILE DISEASES 

11. State food restrictions in scarlet fever. Why? 

12. What foods may be given? 

13. What should be the diet for the whooping cough patient? 

14. What care is needed in arranging diet for measles cases? 

15. Discuss diet in influenza. 

16. Discuss diet in rheumatic fever. 

17. What foods should be avoided? 



CHAPTER XV 

DIET IN DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 
AND ACIDOSIS 

Diabetes Mellitus 

Metabolism in Diabetes. — The underlying cause of 
diabetes mellitus is generally considered to be a derangement 
of one of the functions of the pancreas. This gland produces 
two secretions, the external secretion, discharged into the 
small intestine and known as the pancreatic juice (see page 
30) containing enzymes for the digestion of protein, carbo- 
hydrate and fat, and an internal secretion thought to be a 
product of certain cells (the Islands of Langerhans) within 
the pancreas, which is discharged into the blood and regu- 
lates the body's power to utilize carbohydrate. When this 
ability to oxidize carbohydrate is affected sugar accumulates 
in the blood (hyperglycemia) and escapes into the urine. 
The outstanding symptom of diabetes mellitus is the appear- 
ance of sugar in the urine. 

Protein as well as carbohydrate may contribute to the for- 
mation of sugar in the blood, and in severe cases protein and 
fat. Fat, and to a lesser extent protein, because of being in- 
completely burned, may give rise to acids in the blood which 
produce the condition known as acidosis. This occurs in 
severe cases and in all cases when the quantity of calories 
furnished by carbohydrate in the diet is under about ten 
per cent, of the total calories oxidized by the individual. 

Method of Treatment. — In the older method of treatment 
of diabetes the carbohydrate was reduced and the amount of 
fat and protein in the diet increased in an attempt to make 
up the deficit in calories. Acidosis frequently resulted. 

379 



380 DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 

The modern method involves the restriction of the quan- 
tity and variety of food to such an extent as will remove 
sugar from the urine. This is done either by complete fast- 
ing, by the withdrawal of fat from the diet and the subse- 
quent reduction of carbohydrate and protein to a point at 
which the urine is sugar-free, or by a reduction of the total 
calories of the diet to about one-half that required, making 
this up from about 12 grams of protein and the same quan- 
tity of carbohydrate with the remainder from fat. Of the 
three methods the first has been advocated by Allen, the 
second by Joslin and the third by Newburgh and Marsh. 
Recently Joslin has suggested a simple plan by which the 
diabetic patient can be made sugar-free and thereafter the 
diet built up to a maintenance level. The plan combines 
many of the advantages without the extremes of other 
methods and is described on the following page. 



DIABETES MELLITUS 



38i 



131(1 10 3KVN 






qsij 



»"K 



J3Hng 



uoo-eg 



UIE3J3 



33Z 



peaag 



OJE^J 



Ep33U ^ 



}B3q A \ 
pappaaqS 



IH3UIJBQ 



aSuEjQ 



%S * 



iNro^m 



0000 
ttocm^ 



000 
-r cm\o 
cm ^h — 



00000 
0000m 

rn e+) <"<} CM 



OOOOO 
OOOOO 



vOt^OOOO- 



;™ 1 



. IT) u-, u-, o O O O O 



«-hCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCM 



3- 

8 5T 



hCi 



'C g 

"S 5 



3 J: 



H Oo: 






CM CM CM CM CM 



s 



> s>s 



00000000000 
00000000000 



OOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOO— O — 3 



S3U0IB3 



l*d 



ui^oj^ 



3;EjpXq 



NOXNO 
CM vOroCM 



cd 

silii 



y. 



o 
IE 






=41 

sill 

&■ £ g 



u->0000 






.5 E 

q, en ^_ 

iSiij 



QQQQQ 



1 


en 


2 
Id 


H 

id 


r- 


- 


2 


td 


< 


u 

< 



O — CM 

l(* '- to fc, to to to 



+4-+++ 

—.CM , r>Tl-u"5\Cr^0CC>O~CM 



w 000000 

2 OOOONtCN 
- rrx^o tj- „ CM 



o m . E 

P 5 S E 



- Efl cd 

w E a, S 



382 DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 

Patients are put first on the test diets, changing from Test 
Diet 1 to Test Diet 2 at the end of twenty-four to seventy- 
two hours, similarly from Test Diet 2 to 3, 3 to 4, 4 to 5. 

The Test Diets are designed for the period during which 
the patient becomes gradually sugar-free. On successive days 
advances may be made from Test Diet 1 to Test Diet 5, and 
if on the fifth day the patient is not sugar free, fasting may 
be employed for one or more days. 

The Maintenance Diets are for use as soon as the urine of 
the patient is free from sugar. If this occurs as a result of 
Test Diet 5 the patient begins with Maintenance Diet Ci PFi. 
The actual articles of food representing the carbohydrate in 
the diet for the first day are given under the heading of car- 
bohydrate, for convenience described Ci, 2, 3, etc. The articles 
referred to under protein and fat are under that heading, 
which for the same reason is described as PFi, 2, 3, etc. Cer- 
tain cases of diabetes can proceed steadily day by day from 
Ci PFi to C12 PF12, without showing sugar. If sugar does 
appear in the urine, drop back two days in the carbohydrate 
group, wait till sugar-free, then advance in the protein and 
fat group until sufficient calories are obtained. Thus, if 
sugar shows on Cj PF7 the diet prescribed would be that in- 
cluded in C5 PF7 and thereafter progression could be made 
in the PF group until twenty-five to thirty calories per kilo- 
gram body weight were furnished the. patient. 

Occasionally the patient becomes sugar-free on Test Diet 
2, 3, or 4. It is then unnecessary to begin with Maintenance 
Diet Ci PFi, but instead with a maintenance diet which con- 
tains a value for carbohydrate similar to that of the test diet 
upon which the patient became sugar free. 

If the protein and fat are too high for the individual on a 
given day it is easy to advance the carbohydrate and decrease 
to an earlier day on protein and fat. 

The plan is arbitrary and the majority of cases will de- 
mand some modification. It is arranged to enable patient or 
nurse to see in advance the general plan of treatment. 

When the patient's tolerance for carbohydrate, protein 



DIABETES MELLITUS 383 

and fat have been determined, his diet must be planned to 
keep within the limits set. This requires a knowledge of the 
composition of foods, the methods of calculating food values, 
and access to such tables as are given on the following page 
in which fruits and vegetables are grouped according to 
the percentage of carbohydrate which they contain. 



3^4 



DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 



FOODS ARRANGED APPROXIMATELY TO PERCENTAGE OF 
CARBOHYDRATES— Dr. E. P. Joslin 

WATER, CLEAR BROTHS, COFFEE, TEA, COCOA SHELLS AND CRACKED COCOA 

MAY BE TAKEN WITHOUT ALLOWANCE FOR FOOD CONTENT 

Foods Arranged Approximately According to Content of Carbohydrates. 



5% 



10% 



15% 



20% 



* Reckon average .carbohydrate in 5% veg. as 3% — of 10% veg. as 6' 



l%-3% 
Lettuce 
Cucumbers 
Spinach 
Asparagus 
Rhubarb 
Endive 
Marrow 
Sorrel 
Sauerkraut 
Beet Greens 
Dandelion 
Greens 
Swiss Chard 
Celery 
Mushrooms 



3%-5% * 
Tomatoes 
Brussels 

Sprouts 
Water Cress 
Sea Kale 
Okra 

Cauliflower 
Egg Plant 
Cabbage 
Radishes 
Leeks 
String Beans 

canned 
Broccoli 
Artichokes 

canned 



Ripe Olives (20% fat) 
Grape Fruit 



10% * 


15% 


20% 


String Beans 


Green Peas 


Potatoes 


Pumpkin 


Artichokes 


Shell Beans 


Turnip 


Parsnips 


Baked Beans 


Kohl-Rabi 


Canned 


Green Corn 


Squash 


Lima Beans 


Boiled Rice 


Bee's 




Boiled 


Carrots 




Macaroni 


Onions 






Green Peas 






canned 






Watermellon 


Raspberries 


Plums 


Strawberries 


Currants 


Bananas 


Lemons 


Apricots 


Prunes 


Cranberries 


Pears 




Peaches 


Apples 




Pineapple 
Blackberries 


Huckleberries 




Blueberries 




Gooseberries 


Cherries 




Oranges 







1 gram protein, 4 calories. 

1 " carbohydrate, 4 " 

1 " fat, 9 

6.25 " protein contain lg. nitrogen. 



1 kilogram=2.2 pounds 

30 grams g or .cubic centimeters 

c.c. = l ounce. 
A patient "at rest" requires 25 

calories per kilogram. 



(30 grams 1 oz.) 


CARBOHYDRATES 


PROTEIN 


FAT 


CALORIES 


CONTAIN APPROXIMATELY 


G. 


G. 


G. 




Oatmeal, dry wgt. 


20 


. ...5 


2... 


118 


Shredded Wheat . . . 


23 


3 


. ...0. .. 


104 


Cream, 40% 


. . 1 


1 


12 


116 


20% 


1 


1 


....6... 


62 


Milk 


1.5 


1 


1 


19 


Brazil Nuts 


2 


...5 


...20... 


208 


Oysters, six 


4 


6 


1 


49 


Meat (uncooked, lean) . 





6 


3... 


51 


" (cooked, lean) 





8 


5 


77 


Chicken (cooked, lean) . 





8 


3 


59 


Bacon 





....5 


...15... 


155 


Cheese 





....8 


. ..11. .. 


131 


Egg (one) 





6 


6 


78 


Vegetables, 5% group 


1 


...0.5.... 


0... 


6 


Vegetables, 10% group . 


2 


0.5 





10 


Potato 


6 


1 





28 


Bread 


18 


...3 


....0... 


84 


Butter 








25 


225 


Oil 





.. .0 


...30... 


270 


Fish, cod, haddock (cooked) 





...6 


....0... 


24 


Broth 





0.7 





3 


Fruit, 10% 


3 


. . .0 


0. . . 


12 














DIABETES MELLITUS 



385 



Under certain conditions it is desirable to employ more 
detailed values than those given in the preceding tables. 
In such case the following tables will prove serviceable. 

CARBOHYDRATE CONTENT FOOD LIST 1 

(from lowest to highest) 

Dr. Frederick M. Allen 



Edible Portion 



Protein 
% 



Fat 

% 



Carbohydrate 

% 



Meats 

Bacon 33.0 67.2 

Bacon, crisp 33.0 10.0 

Beef, Sirloin, very lean 20.5 6.4 

Beef, Round, very lean 20.8 8.0 

Chicken. Broiler 15.0 3.0 

Ham, very lean 20.2 20.8 

Pork, Tenderloin 19.5 14.4 

Pork, Loin 19.7 19.0 

Lamb, Leg 19.1 12.4 

Veal, Leg 21.0 3.6 

Fresh Fish 

Sea Bass 18.8 0.5 

Blue Fish 19.0 1.2 

Cod, fresh 15.8 0.4 

Flounder 13.9 0.6 

Halibut 18.3 5.2 

Salmon 20.6 12.8 

Shad Roe 20.9 3.8 2.6 

Shad, whole 18.6 9.5 

Vegetables 

Cucumbers, fresh 0.8 0.2 3.0 

Asparagus, fresh 1.8 0.2 3.3 

Asparagus, canned 1.5 0.1 2.8 

Celery, fresh 1.4 0.1 3.0 

Spinach, fresh 2.1 0.5 3.1 

Lettuce, fresh 1.3 0.4 3.0 

Brussels Sprouts, canned 1.5 0.1 3.4 

x "It must be recognized that all foods vary in composition. For this reason no 
table can be exact and we no longer use decimals in our calculations, merely 
taking the percentages in the form of the nearest whole numbers. Cooked foods 
are particularly uncertain because of differences in cooking. The value of crisp 
bacon, for example, varies with the kind of bacon, the thoroughness of frying 
and removing fat, etc., but the figure given is a fair approximation according to 
analyses. In general, it is safest for patients to count foods at their highest 
values, rather than at the lowest." — Dr. Frederick M. Allen, The Physiatric 
Institute, Morristown, N. J. 



386 DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 



Edible Portion Protein Fat Carbohydrate 

% % % 

■ ! 

Vegetables (Continued) 

Rhubarb, fresh 0.6 

Beans, String, canned 1.1 

Tomatoes, fresh 0.8 

Tomatoes, canned 1.2 

Brussels Sprouts, fresh 4.7 

Sauerkraut 1.5 

Artichokes, canned 0.8 

Leeks 1.2 

Eggplant, fresh 1.2 

Pumpkin, fresh 1.0 

Cucumber pickles 0.5 

Kohl-rabi, fresh 2.0 

Cabbage, fresh 2.1 

Cauliflower, fresh 1.6 

Radishes, fresh 1.4 

Turnips, fresh 1.4 

Carrots, fresh 1.1 

Beans, String, fresh 2.2 

Beets, fresh >... 1.6 

Peas, Green, canned 3.6 

Onions, fresh 1.7 

Squash, fresh 1.6 

Lima Beans, canned 4.0 

Corn, Green, fresh 3.0 

Peas, Green, fresh 7.0 

Parsnip, fresh 1.7 

Artichoke, fresh 2.6 

Potatoes, fresh 2.1 

Lima Beans, fresh 7.1 

Bread 9.5 

Fruits 

Grapefruit 

Watermelon 0.3 

Strawberries 1.0 

Blackberries 0.9 

Muskmelon 0.6 

Peaches 0.7 

Pineapple 0.4 

Orange 0.8 

Lemon Juice 

Cranberries 0.5 

Raspberries 1.0 

Grapes 1.0 

Apricots 1.1 



0.7 


3.6 


0.1 


3.9 


0.4 


3.9 


0.2 


4.0 


1.1 


4.3 


0.8 


4.4 




5.0 


0.5 


5.8 


0.3 


5.1 


0.1 


5.2 


0.5 


5.4 


0.1 


5.5 


0.4 


5.8 


0.8 


6.0 


0.1 


6.6 


0.2 


8.7 


0.4 


9.2 


0.4 


7.0 


0.1 


9.6 


0.2 


9.8 


0.4 


9.9 


0.6 


9.0 


0.3 


14.6 


1.1 


20.0 


0.5 


17.0 


0.6 


14.0 


0.2 


16.7 


0.1 


18.0 


0.7 


22.0 


1.2 


52.8 




5.0 


0.1 


6.5 


0.1 


6.8 


0.2 


11.0 




9.3 


0.1 


9.4 


0.3 


9.7 


0.6 


9.7 




9.8 


0.7 


10.1 




12.6 


2.0 


19.0 




13.4 



DIABETES MELLITUS 387 



Edible Portion Protein Fat Carbohydrate 
| % % %_ 

Fruits (Continued) 

Pears 0.6 

Apples, Sweet 0.5 

Apples, Sour 0.5 

Dairy Products 

Eggs, 1 7.5 

Eggs' 100 gms. ... '. '. . . . . . . .... '. '. '. 13.4 

Butter 

Whole Milk 3.3 

Buttermilk 3.0 

Whiting's Milk (Sugar of Milk) . . 5.97 

Cream, Average 3.0 

Cheese 

Dutch 37.1 

Cheddar 28.2 

Cheshire 26.9 

Cream 25.9 

American, pale 28.8 

American, red 29.6 

Limburger 23.0 

Boudon 15.4 

Swiss 27.6 

Brie 15.9 

Neufchatel 18.7 

Roquefort 22.6 



0.8 


14.2 


0.5 


20.0 




14.0 


5.5 




10.6 




85.0 




4.0 


5.0 


0.5 


4.8 


7.36 




20.0 


5.0 


17.7 




32.0 




31.6 




31.7 




36.2 




38.3 




29.4 


0.4 


21.7 


0.7 


34.9 


1.3 


21.0 


1.4 


27.4 


1.5 


29.5 


.8 



FIVE PER CENT. VEGETABLES ( FRESH OR CANNED) 

n cooked 5% vegetables yield : 
protein, 0.1 gm., carbohydrate, 0.3 gm 



When cooked 5% vegetables yield for each 10 gm. approximately, 
n, 0.1 gm., carbohydrate, 0.3 gm., calories, 1%. 



Asparagus Pickles, sour or dill 

Brussels Sprouts Pumpkin 

Cabbage Radishes 

Cauliflower Rhubarb 

Celery Sauerkraut 

Cucumbers Sorrel 

Eggplant Spinach 

Endive String beans 

Greens from beets Swiss chard 

Kohlrabi Tomatoes 

Leeks Watercress 

Lettuce Wax beans 



388 DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 

CALORIC EQUIVALENTS IN FISH AND MEAT 



Fish: 

♦Bass, black 

♦Bass, sea 

♦Blue fish 

Butterfish 

♦Codfish, fresh 

♦Codfish, salt ' 

♦Flounder 

♦Haddock 

♦Halibut 

Herring, smoked 

Mackerel, fresh 

Mackerel, salt 

♦Perch 

♦Pike 

♦Porgy 

Salmon, fresh 

Salmon, canned 

Sardines, canned 

Shad 

♦Shad roe 

♦Smelts 

♦Trout 

♦Weakfish 

♦White fish 

Meats : 

Bacon 

Beef brains 

Beef, corned 

♦Beef, dried 

Beef, roast 

♦Beef, roast, very lean 

♦Beefsteak, round, lean 

Beefsteak, sirloin, lean 

Beefsteak, tenderloin 

Beef tongue 

Capon 

♦Chicken 

Duck 

Ham, fresh 

Ham, smoked 

Ham, smoked, boiled 

Ham, smoked, fried 

♦Guinea hen 

♦Kidney 

*May be used in "Lowest Fat" Diets. 



GM. J 


PRO. GM. 


FAT GM. 


19 


3.9 


0.3 


23 


4.6 


0.1 


13 


3.6 


0.6 


11 


2.0 


1.2 


19 


4.1 


0.1 


17 


4.6 


0.1 


30 


4.3 


0.2 


19 


4.2 


0.1 


15 


3.1 


0.6 


6 


2.2 


1.0 


14 


2.4 


1.0 


6 


1.0 


1.6 


17 


3.3 


0.7 


24 


4.5 


0.1 


16 


3.0 


0.8 


11 


2.2 


1.1 


10 


2.2 


1.2 


7 


1.6 


1.4 


12 


2.3 


1.1 


15 


3.1 


0.6 


22 


3.5 


0.4 


17 


3.6 


0.4 


20 


3.6 


0.5 


12 


2.7 


0.8 


7 


0.9 


1.6 


16 


1.4 


1.5 


6 


0.9 


1.6 


9 


3.5 


0.5 


5 


1.1 


1.4 


17 


4.0 


0.3 


10 


2.8 


0.8 


10 


2.4 


1. 


7 


1.7 


1.4 


12 


2.3 


1.1 


9 


2.4 


1.0 


11 


3.5 


0.5 


6 


1.0 


1.6 


5 


0.8 


1.7 


4 


0.7 


1.6 


7 


1.4 


1.6 


5 


1.1 


1.7 


12 


2.8 


0.8 


17 


2.8 


0.8 



DIABETES MELLITUS 



389 



GM. 



PRO. GM. 


FATGM.! 


1.1 


1.5 


2.0 


1.3 


3.2 


0.6 


3.4 


0.5 


1.5 


1.4 


3.1 


0.7 


2.6 


0.9 


1.3 


1.6 


4.4 


0.1 


2.0 


1.3 


4.0 


0.2 



CAL- 
ORIES 



Lamb chop 

Lamb roast 

♦Mutton chop, lean 

♦Mutton, boiled, lean 

Mutton, roast 

Pork chop, lean 

Pork, roast 

Squab 

♦Sweetbreads 

Turkey, roast 

♦Veal, roast or chop, lean 



5 

10 
14 
11 

6 
12 

9 

7 
11 

7 
14 



19 
20 
19 
19 
19 
19 
19 
20 
19 
20 
18 



As an example of how to apportion the test diets through- 
out the day, the following arrangement of Test Diet 1 
page 381, is given. 

TEST DIET I 



Breakfast : 

Orange 

Shredded Wheat 

Bread 

Skimmed Milk. 
Boiled Fish 



100 grams 
1 

30 grams 
180 grams 

90 grams 



10 
23 
18 
18 



60 



P. 



3 

3 

6 

18 

30 



F. 



Cal. 

40 

104 

84 

60 

72 

360 



Noon 

Orange 

5% Vegetables 

Potato 

Bread 

Skimmed Milk. 
Meat 



100 grams 
150 grams 
120 grams 

30 grams 
150 grams 

60 grams 



10 

5 

24 

18 

8 



65 



3 
4 
3 
5 
16 

31 



10 



10 



40 
32 

112 
84 
52 

154 

474 



40 

32 

112 

84 

52 
77 
24 

421 



Night : 

Orange 

5% Vegetables 

Potato 

Bread 

Skimmed Milk. 

Meat 

Fish 



100 grams 

150 grams 

120 grams 

30 grams 

150 grams 

30 grams 

30 grams 



10 

5 

24 

18 

8 



65 



3 
4 
3 
5 
8 
6 

29 



'May be used in "Lowest Fat" Diets. 



390 



DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 



For the sake of convenience in prescribing and calculating 
diets the following general plan should be employed. 
Name Date 



FOOD 


BREAK- 
FAST 


DINNER 


SUPPER 


TOTAL 
GRAMS 


CAR- 
BOHY- 
DRATE 


PRO- 
TEIN 


FAT 


5% veg. 
















10% veg. 




Eggs 

Meat Cooked 




Chicken 




Fish 




Bacon 




Butter 
















Cream, 20% 




Oatmeal 












Multif 


Total 
ly for C 


Grams 
Calories 4 


"4" 


' 9" 



Total Calories 



A compact record comparing urinary findings with dietary 
prescriptions for corresponding twenty-four hours should be 
kept in every case. For this purpose the chart given on the 
following page is useful. 

Often, on account of the severity of the case, it is neces- 
sary to keep more detailed records of the condition of the 
urine, blood and alveolar air with corresponding record of 
diet and patient weight. When this is the case, the chart 
given on the following page will be found useful. 



DIABETES MELLITUS 



39i 





< 

es 
O 

z 

V. 

z 

£ 
P 

a. 

u 
u 

Q 
>• 

< 

r- 

w 










H 




■r. 

< 
z 

E- 
Q 


"3 

O 













u 

U 




C 

s 










M 
z 


< 
O 
D 
W 


rt 




rt^ 1 










1 


a 



H 






3 s= « 



5'5^ 



oO 



EH 



.i 6 c . 
2i^ 



-> a o 






a 1- 

C/2 U 



►.S 'SO 



*E 






P3c/2 







c 

§$££ 

££;3& 



•a.s 

us 



6 c 

£'5 



43 2 



392 DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 

Cautions. 1 — Patients should eat too little rather than too 
much. With a return to normal weight sugar may appear. 

All food should be eaten slowly and the coarser the food 
the more thoroughly it should be masticated. 

If in doubt about a food, let it alone until you have found 
out whether it is allowed. Do not yield to the temptation 
to break the diet, for if this is done the plan of treatment is 
upset, a week's time may be lost and several pounds of 
weight sacrificed. 

So-called diabetic foods often contain considerable quan- 
tities of carbohydrate and usually so much protein and fat 
that they should not be taken by the patient without due al- 
lowance for the same. They should not be taken under any 
circumstances unless their composition is known. 

The carbohydrate in the diet should be divided between 
the three meals. Even if the 10 per cent., 15 per cent, and 
20 per cent, vegetables are allowed, vegetables from the 5 
per cent, group should be taken as well. Usually it is al- 
lowable to substitute for a given quantity of 5 per cent, vege- 
tables one-half as much from the 10 per cent, group, one- 
quarter as much from the 15 per cent, or one-sixth as much 
from the 20 per cent. 

l Dr. E. P. Joslin, "Diabetic Manual," Lea & Febiger, Philadelphia, Pa., 1919. 



DIABETES MELLITUS 



393 



Other Diabetic Diets 

REGIME FOR SURGICAL DIABETIC PATIENTS 
In use in the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, August, 1921. 









CARBO- 




PRE-OPERATIVE 


PROTEIN 


FAT 


HYDRATES 


CALORIES 


1st day 


100 





100 


800 


2nd day 


50 





50 


400 


3rd day 








25 


100 


4th day 








10 


40 


5th day 





— 







If patient is not 


15 








60 


sugar-free after 


20 


— 





80 


starvation for 













three days, give 










the following diet 










Sugar-Free 










"Building Diet." 










1st day 


10 


— 







2nd day 


20 


— 





80 


3rd day 


35 


— 


5 


160 


4th day 


50 


— 


10 


240 


5th day 


50 


— 


15 


260 




i 

11™ 4-~ 1 ~~, 


2 


3 


4 



increase gradually to 1 gm. per kilo of body weight. 
2 Add fat gradually to increase calories, 
increase slowly so as to get 3 gms. per kilo body weight, 
increase to 25-30 calories per kilo body weight. 

Post-operative diet will have to be regulated in many cases as the 
severity of acidosis is determined. A higher carbohydrate diet of 
longer duration than charted should be followed. 



POST-OPERATIVE — 60 240 

This should be given in the form of Orange Juice and Oatmeal 
Gruel every three hours. This until no acid. 

Put patient on following diet and will probably become sugar-free 
in the course of a few days. 



1st day 
2nd day 
3rd day 



10 
20 

35 



If sugar-free, increase diet as directed before 



This chart is for a general outline, 
treated individually. 



120 
200 
"Building Diet. 



Many cases will have to be 



394 DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 

Building Diet} — When the urine has been sugar-free for 
one day, add 10 grams of protein, next day give 20 grams 
of protein in the form of meat and thereafter add daily 15 
grams of protein in the form of meat until the patient 
is receiving 1 gram of protein per kilo of weight. In very 
severe cases, go more slowly and add protein in the form 
of meat later. 

When the urine has been sugar-free for two days, in- 
crease the above diet by addition of 5 grams of carbohydrate 
and continue to add 5 grams daily up to 20 grams and then 
add 5 grams every other day up to 3 grams of carbohydrates 
per kilo of body weight. 

Next, gradually add fat as such to raise the diet to ade- 
quate caloric value. 

The reappearance of sugar in the urine at any time indi- 
cates a reduction in diet. The appearance of diacetic acid 
and acetone in the urine indicates caution in the use of fat. 

The aim of dieting should be to attain about 75 grams of 
protein and as much carbohydrate as the patient will tolerate 
and remain daily sugar-free, and fat to give a fair caloric 
intake. 

DIABETES MELLITUS IN ITS MILD FORM 

Diabetes mellitus in its mild form can frequently be con- 
trolled by no further restriction in the diet than that the 
patient be limited to the foods found in the tables presented 
on page 384. With very rare exceptions the way for even 
these mild diabetics to begin is by getting the urine sugar- 
free and then gradually adding to the diet as suggested on 
page 381 under Maintenance Diets. 

Gout 

Metabolism. — In gout the body's ability to metabolize 
purins is impaired and with this there is frequently a diffi- 
culty in uric acid excretion. The result is an accumulation 

x In use in the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, Boston, Mass., August, 1921. 



GOUT 395 

of uric acid in the blood. Uric acid is formed in the body 
in two ways: (i) from the metabolism of nucleic acid 
derived from the nucleo-proteins of the food or body tissues, 
and, (2) from foods containing free purins. There is al- 
ways a small amount of uric acid in normal blood and urine, 
but in gouty conditions the blood contents of uric acid is in- 
creased. 

Food Needs. — The aim in feeding gout is to give a diet 
which will not increase the uric acid in the blood, that is, 
one which contains little or no nucleo-protein or free purins, 
and which will meet the body's needs for protein, at the 
same time keeping the quantity of protein low. Carter, 
Howe and Mason suggest a diet for man containing not over 
50 to 70 grams of protein per 70 kilogram per day. The 
caloric value of the diet is regulated by the condition of the 
patient; if he is much overweight, as he frequently is, the 
amount of food must be correspondingly reduced ; if he is 
under-nourished the energy value of the diet should be such 
as to correct this condition. 

Foods to Avoid. — Foods rich in purins should be rigidly excluded 
from the diet. These include : 

Meat Glandular organs such as liver, kidney and sweet- 
breads, which contain considerable amounts of nucleo- 
protein. Beef, veal, mutton, pork, chicken, turkey, 
goose and other kinds of game. 

Boiling meat, especially if boiled in two waters, re- 
moves a great part of the purins and such small 
amounts as remain are occasionally permitted. 

Soups Made from meat stocks. 

Fish Of all kinds, except cod. 

Vegetables Asparagus, spinach, peas and beans. 

Beverages Coffee, tea and cocoa, except in small amounts. 

Alcoholic beverages. 
Rich gravies and sauces, pastries, concentrated sweets, spices and 

other condiments. Salt may be used in moderation but an excess 

should be avoided. 

Kinds of Food to Use: 

a. Purin-Free Foods. 

Milk, cream, butter and cheese. 
Eggs. 



396 DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 

White bread and flour. 
Cereals (hominy, rice, farina and wheat). 
Cornstarch, tapioca. 
Sugar and syrup. 
Jam and marmalade. 
Potatoes and other root vegetables. 

Green vegetables with the exception of those listed above. 
Nuts, gelatin and friuts. 
b. Low-Purin Foods. 1 Used only when physician prescribes ; fluid 
intake also to be regulated under his supervision. 

Breakfast : 

Fruit Fresh, cooked or preserved. 

Cereal Any kind with sugar and milk or cream. 

Bread White bread, toast, biscuits, muffins with butter. 

Eggs In any form except fried. 

Milk Seasoned with a very little cocoa, tea or coffee. 

Lunch and Dinner : 

Soup Cream soup, using any of the low-purin content vege- 
tables. (See Purin-Content Food List, page 397) 

Fish or Meat. Any of the following once a day: Boiled fish, boiled 
chicken, boiled mutton, boiled beef, pot roast, boiled 
ham. 

Vegetables ..Brussels sprouts, cabbage, cauliflower, corn, egg- 
plant, lettuce, okra, white or sweet potatoes, spinach, 
macaroni, noodles, rice. 

Bread ......White bread, toast, crackers with butter. 

Desserts All fruit cooked or fresh, ice cream, pudding, cake, 

pie and all desserts not flavored with chocolate, coffee 
or cheese. 
Beverages Milk, water, all carbonated waters, cider, grape juice. 

Desirable limits for calories and proteins for a Low-Purin 
Diet: 

Women, 1800 calories a day: Approximate values to be 

given — Protein, 50 gm. (2 oz.) ; carbohydrates, 300 gm. 

(10 oz.) ; fat, 50 gm. (1 2/3 oz.). 
Men, 2200 calories a day: Approximate values to be 

given — Protein, 60 gm. (2 oz.) ; carbohydrates, 350 gm. 

(11 2/3 oz.) ; fat, 60 gm. 

1 Modified from Dr. Carter's "Presbyterian Diet Lists," W. B. Saunders Co., 
Philadelphia, Pa. 



GOUT 397 

PURIN-CONTENT FOOD LIST 1 

Grams Per Kilo 

Fish: 

Codfish* 1.0 

Halibut 1.0 

Salmon 1.1 

Meat : 

Beef Liver* 2.6 

Beef Sirloin* 1.5 

Beef Sweetbread* 10.6 

Chicken* 1.3 

Ham 1.1 

Mutton 1.0 

Pork (Loin) 1.2 

Turkey 1 .3 

Veal 1.1 

Meat Soups : (pur in-content large). 

Vegetables : 

Asparagus 0.2 

Beans (Haricot) 0.6 

Cabbage 0.0 

Cauliflower 0.0 

Lentils 0.4 

Lettuce 0.0 

Onions 0.09 

Peas 0.4 

Spinach* 0.6 

Potatoes 0.03 

Cereals and Cereal Products : 

Arrowroot Flour* 0.03 

Hominy* .01 

Oatmeal* 08 

Pea Flour* 04 

Rice* 00 

Rye Bread (German) * .04 

Rye Flour* 05 

Tapioca .00 

White Bread 00 

White Flour 00 

Special Foods : 

Butter 00 

Cheese (fat) 00 

Eggs* 00 

Milk 00 

x "St. Luke's Dietary," St. Luke's Hospital. New York City. 
* Articles designated by * analyzed by Karl M. Vogel; the other by Walker 
Hall. 



398 DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 



Grams Per Kilo 

Beverages : 

Beer, Ale, Porter 01 to .02 

Claret, Sherry, Port .00 

Chocolate 1.4 

Cocoa 2. 

Coffee 1.7 

Tea 2.4 



Food Combinations and Menus 

(PURIN-POOR DIETS) 

folin's purin-free liquid diet 

For 2830 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 139 gm. 
{A 2 /z oz.) ; fat, 146 gm. ; (4% oz.) ; carbohydrates, 225 gm. 
(7H oz.). 

Whole milk 500 c.c. (16 oz.) 

Cream (18 to 22 per cent, fat) 300 c.c. (10 oz.) 

10 eggs (whites and yolks) 450 gm. (15 oz.) 

Horlick's malted milk 200 gm. ( 6 2 /z oz.) 

Sugar 20 gm. ( 3^ oz.) 

Sodium chloride 6 gm. ( % oz.) 

Water, q. s. ad 2000 c.c. (64 oz.) 

Extra water 900 c.c. (30 oz.) 

Schedule of Feeding: 

7 :00 A. M. Malted milk, 40 gm., 2 eggs, cream, 50 c.c, sugar, 4 gm., 
water, 400 c.c. 

9:00 A. M. Milk, 250 c.c, cream, 50 c.c 

11 :00 A. M. Malted milk, 40 gm., 2 eggs, cream, 50 c.c, sugar, 4 gm., 
water, 400 c.c 

1 :30 A. M. Milk, 250 c.c, cream, 50 c.c. 

3 :30 P. M. Malted milk, 40 gm., 2 eggs, cream, 50 c.c, sugar, 4 gm., 
water, 400 c.c 

6 :00 P. M. Malted milk, 40 gm., 2 eggs, cream, 50 c.c, sugar, 4 gm., 
water, 400 c.c 

8:00 P. M. Malted milk, 40 gm., 2 eggs, sugar, 4 gm., water, 400 c.c. 
During the day — water, 900 c.c, sodium chloride, 6 gm. 



GOUT 

PURIN-FREE SOFT DIET 



399 



For 2300 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 80. gm. (2 2 /$ 
oz.) ; fat, 120 gm. (4% oz.) ; carbohydrates, 225 gm. (8 oz.) 



MEASURE 



OUNCE 



CAL- 
ORIES 



6:00 A. M. 
Breakfast : 
8:00 A. M. 



Dinner : 
12:00 Noon 



3 :30 P. M. 
Supper : 
5 :30 P. M. 



8:00 P. M. 



Milk 

Cream of wheat 

(uncooked) 

Milk 

Poached egg 

Toast 

Butter 

Milk 

Cream of Potato 

Soup 

Crackers 

Coddled Egg 

Lettuce 

Mayonnaise 

Bread 

Butter 

Tapioca Pudding . . 

Milk 

Baked Potato 

Cheese 

Cauliflower 

Cream Sauce 

Bread 

Butter 

Baked Apple 

Cream, thin 

Malted Milk (using 
2 tablespoons) 



cup 



3 tbsp. 
X A cup 
1 

2 slices 
1 tbsp. 
% cup 



n cup 

4 
1 
% lg. hd. 

1 tbsp. 

2 slices 
1 tbsp. 
% cup 

5 A cup 



med. 
in. cube 
sm. hd. 



X A cup 
! slices 
tbsp. 
V2 large 

Vs cup 



cup 



5.1 



100 



1.0 


100 


4.0 


80 


2.5 


70 


1.3 


10O 


0.5 


100 


5.1 


100 


8.4 


200 


0.9 


100 


2.5 


70 


3.7 


20 


0.5 


100 


1.3 


100 


0.5 


100 


2.8 


150 


2.5 


100 


3.0 


100 


1.2 


150 


5.8 




2.4 


150 


1.3 


100 


0.5 


100 


2.3 


100 


1.8 


50 


8.0 


65 




2305 



400 



DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 



PURIN-FREE DIET. FIXED PROTEIN 1 

St. Luke's Hospital 

For 2151 Calorics a Day: Approximate values — Protein, 79.6 gm.; 
Nitrogen, 12.7 gm. 



GM. 


CALORIES 


1.6 


73 


12.2 


168 


3.3 


161 


0.1 


114 


8. 


168 




126 


2. 


122 


12.2 


168 


3.3 


161 


0.1 


114 


8. 


168 


2. 


122 




126 


12.2 


168 


0.5 


40 


2. 


122 


0.3 


52 


0.4 


9 


3.3 


161 


0.1 


114 


8. 


168 




126 



Breakfast : 

1 orange 

2 soft-boiled eggs 

2 slices bread (60 gm.) 

15 gm. butter 

1 glass milk (250 c.c.) 
30 gm. sugar 

Dinner : 

50 gm? steamed rice . . . 

2 hard-boiled eggs .... 
2 slices bread 

15 gm. butter 

1 glass milk (250 c.c.) . 

50 gm. cream 

30 gm. sugar 

Supper : 

2 soft-boiled eggs .... 
1 sliced banana 

50 gm. cream 

1 baked apple 

50 gm. stewed tomatoes 

2 slices bread 

15 gm. butter 

1 glass milk (250 c.c.) 
30 gm. sugar 



PURIN-FREE DIET. FIXED NITROGEN, CALCIUM AND 

MAGNESIUM 1 
St. Luke's Hospital 

For 1900 Calories in 24 Hours: Approximate values— N, 9.138 gm.. 
CaO, 1.214 gm.; MgO, 0.175 gm. 

Milk 500 gm. 

Eggs 300 gm. 

Cream 300 gm. 

Rice, uncooked 100 gm. 

Schedule of Feeding: 

6 :00 A. M. Milk 180 gm. 

1 "St. Luke's Dietary," St. Luke's Hospital, New York City. 



GOUT 



401 



8 :00 A. M. Steamed rice (uncooked) 30 gm. 

Cream 60 gm. 

2 soft boiled eggs 100 gm. 

12 Noox. Steamed rice (uncooked) 35 gm. 

Cream 90 gm. 

2 poached eggs 100 gm. 

3 :00 P. M. Milk 180 gm. 

Cream 30 gm. 

5 :30 P. M. Steam rice (uncooked) 35 gm. 

Cream 60 gm. 

2 soft boiled eggs 100 gm. 

8 :00 P. M. Milk 140 gm. 

Cream 60 gm. 

LOW-PURIN DIET, NO. I 

For 1800 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 46.94 gm. ; 
fat, 82.35 gm. ; carbohydrate, 185.46 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDIXG 



Breakfast : 

Orange 

Farina 

White Bread (toast) 

Butter 

Cream (thin) 

Sugar 

Milk 



Dinner : 
Cream of Celery Soup. . . 

Poached Egg 

Baked Potato 

Roll 

Butter 

Cream Pie with Meringue 

Supper : 
Cream Toast 



Baked Apple and Whipped 

Cream 

Lady Fingers 



1 

Va cup 

2 slices 

1 tbsp. 

Va cup 

1 tbsp. 

1 glass 

~/ 2 cup 



1 
1 

1 

\y 2 tbsp. 

Section 3%' 
circum. 



o a 
35 



at 



V/2 slice toast 
% c. sauce 

1 large apple 
3 



9.45 
6.00 
1.38 

.46 
1.80 

.44 
5.10 



1.61 
3.00 
3.60 
.13 
1.25 



4.76 



3.60 


2.75 : 


1.78 


6.79 


5.27 


2.69 


1.30 


4.00 


.69 


.20' 


2.40 


3.75 


4.40 


6.50 


4.40 


.25 


.75 


1.87 



100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
50 
100 

100 
75 
100 
100 
150 

150 



200 

200 

75 

1800 



402 



DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 



LOW-PURIN DIET, NO. II 

For 2208 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 55.23* gm. ; 
fat, 91.72 gm. ; carbohydrate, 287.86 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



r 



Breakfast : 

Prunes 

Hominy Grits 

White Bread (toast) 

Butter 

Cream (thin) 

Sugar 

Milk 

Dinner : 
Eggs a la Goldenrod.. 

Baked Sweet Potato . 
Creamed Cauliflower 

Roll 

Butter 

Rice Pudding 

Supper : 
Macaroni and Cheese 

Lettuce Salad 

Popovers 

Butter 

Sliced Bananas with . 

Boiled Custard 

Molasses Cookies . . . 



3 prunes and 
3 tbsp. juice 

% cup 
2 slices 
1 tbsp. 

Ya cup 
1 tbsp. 

H cup 



1 
1 
1 
1 
1 

\y 2 tbsp. 

Vz cup 



serving i.e. 
egg, etc. 
medium 
serving 



cup 

sm. servini 

tbsp. 

cup 

cookies 

diam. 



4.20 


.75 


6.80 


2.25 


1.38 


3.60 


.46 


.13 


1.80 


1.25 


.44 




5.10 


4.76 


6.00 


12.00 


6.00 


1.50 


4.38 


2.37 


1.30 


4.00 


.69 


.20 


3.10 


4.25 


3.15 


6.37 


.60 


.12 


2.00 


4.50 


.23 


.06 


2.75 


.62 


2.20 


4.25 


.52 


2.25 



150 
100 
100 
100 
100 
50 
100 



300 
200 
83 
100 
150 
100 

150 
50 

100 
50 
50 

100 

75 
2208 



GOUT 



403 



A DAY S DIETARY SUGGESTED FOR CHRONIC GOUT 1 
Mary Swartz Rose 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



E a 

u 



y. 



■s. 



i5« j w 

W OS < K 

HO Ho 

O J p -J 

OS < H < 

Pi U U 



7 A. M. 

8 A. M. 



1 P. M. 



6 P. M. 



Hot water 1 



Orange 

Rice 

Cream, thick 

Sugar 

Hot milk 

Bread 

Butter 

Peaches 



1 

H 

1 

1 

VA 

4 
1 
W 



cup 

large 

cup 

tbsp. 

tbsp. 

cups 

slices 

tbsp. 

medium 



(scant) 
(scant) 



Soft-cooked eggs ; 2 

Baked potato 2 

Celery ! 

Bread 4 

Butter 1 



Peaches . . ; 

Tea, very weak and un- 
sweetened 



Milk 

Bread 

Baked apple with 
whipped cream 
Sugar 



eggs 
medium 

slices 
tbsp. 

medium 



lJ4 cups 
6 slices 



1 sm. apple 
1 tbsp. (scant) 
Butter 1 tbsp. 



Total for day 



9.5 


7 


2.0 


5 


0.5 


1 


0.5 




10.2 


38 


1.3 


28 


0.5 


1 


5.3 


3 


3.4 


54 


6.0 


22 


4.8 


6 


2.6 


28 


0.5 


1 


5.3 


3 


10.2 


38 


3.9 


42 


2.4 


1 


0.5 




0.5 


1 




279 



100 

50 

50 

50 

200 

200 

100 

50 

800 

150 
200 

25 
200 
100 

50 



725 

200 
300 

100 

50 

100 



x Mary Swartz Rose, Ph.D., "Feeding the Family." The Macmillan Co., New 
York, 1921. 



404 DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 



Obesity 

The underlying causes of obesity are : ( I ) overeating ; 
(2) lack of exercise; (3) hereditary constitutional diseases, 
such as hypothyroidism or hypopituitarism. 

Dr. Joslin calls attention to a startling relationship between 
obesity and diabetes. In a paper published in the Journal 
of the American Medical Association in 1921, 1 he states 
that diabetes rarely develops in individuals above the age 
of twenty who are habitually underweight. In 1000 cases 
studied it was found that diabetes occurred 79 times as fre- 
quently when the individuals were 21% or more above as 
when they were 21% or more below normal weight. 

As a safeguard against disease as well as for the sake of 
comfort and appearance it is therefore desirable that body 
weight should not be permitted to become excessive. 

The standard of what constitutes normal weight for any 
individual is based upon two factors, age and height. The 
tables cited on the following page are calculated from statis- 
tics gathered from heights and weights of average healthy 
men and women of various ages. In general an individual is 
considered to be "overweight" if he is more than 10 to 15 
per cent, above the average normal weight for his age and 
height. 

*Dr. E. P. Joslin, "The Prevention of Diabetes Mellitus," Journal of the 
American Medical Association, Vol. 76, page 79. 



I 



OBESITY 



405 



TABLE OF WEIGHT AND HEIGHT FOR MEN AT DIFFERENT AGES 







in 

U eg 




Os 


■* 


0\ 


T 




Os 




Height 


►> C<J 


eg 


eg 


f*i 


*? 


Tf 


'J- tr> 








<r> 


1A 





10 






10 






h 1 (i) 1 n 


eg 


eg 


<*» 


"5 




•^- m 


m 


5 ft. 




107 


110 


114 


118 


122 


126 


128 


131 


133 


134 


135 




1 in. 


112 


115 


118 


121 


124 


128 


130 


133 


135 


136 


137 




2 " 


117 


120 


122 


124 


126 


130 


132 


135 


137 


138 


139 




3 " 


121 


124 


126 


128 


129 


133 


135 


138 


140 


141 


142 




4 " 


124 


127 


129 


131 


133 


136 


138 


141 


143 


144 


145 




5 " 


128 


130 


132 


134 


137 


140 


142 


145 


147 


148 


149 




6 " 


132 


133 


136 


138 


141 


144 


146 


149 


151 


152 


153 




7 " 


136 


137 


140 


142 


145 


148 


150 


153 


155 


156 


158 




8 " 


140 


141 


143 


14i5 


149 


152 


155 


158 


160 


161 163 




9 " 


144 


145 


147 


150 


153 


156 


160 


163 


165 


166 168 




10 " 


148 


149 


151 


154 


157 


161 


165 


168 


170 


171 


173 




11 " 


153 


154 


156 


159 


162 


166 


170 


174 


176 


177 


178 


6 ft. 




158 


160 


162 


165 


167 


172 


176 


180 


182 


183 


184 




1 " 


163 


165 


167 


170 


173 


178 


182 


186 


188 


190 


191 




2 " 


168 


170 


173 


176 


179 


184 


189 


193 


195 


197 


198 




3 " 


173 


175 


178 


181 


184 


190 


195 


200 


202 


204 


205 




4 " 


178 


180 


183 


186 


189 


196 


201 


206 


209 


211 


212 




5 " 


183 


185 


188 


191 


194 


201 


207 


212 


215 217 


219 



In ascertaining height — measure in shoes; stand erect, and press 
measuring rod down against scalp. Weigh yourself in indoor cloth- 
ing and shoes. Subtract one inch for height, if measured in shoes. 

TABLE OF WEIGHT AND HEIGHT FOR WOMEN AT DIFFERENT AGES 1 







tA 




eg 


«* 


0\ 


■* 


o\ 


t 


CJ\ 






Height 


>% 




CM 


eg 


eg 


ro 


C5 


■<*- 


t 


10 












**> 




O 







10 









'-' 




eg 


eg 


eg 


f» 


f» ^f 1 ^f 


« 


4 ft. 


10 in. 


98 102 


106 


110 


113 


116 


119 


123 


126 


129 




11 " 


103 


107 


109 


112 


115 


118 


121 


125 


128 


131 


5 ft. 




109 


112 


113 


115 


117 


120 


123 


127 


130 


133 




1 " 


113 


115 


116 


118 


119 


122 


125 


129 


132 


135 




2 " 


116 


118 


119 


120 


121 


124 


127 


132 


135 


138 




3 « 


120 


121 


122 


123 


124 


127 


130 


135 


138 


141 




4 " 


123 


124 


125 


126 


128 


131 


134 


138 


141 


144 




5 " 


126 


127 


128 


129 


131 


134 


138 


142 


145 


148 




6 " 


129 


130 


131 


133 


135 


138 


142 


146 


149 


152 




7 " 


131 


133 


135 


137 


139 


142 


146 


150 


153 


156 




8 " 


135 


137 


139 


141 


143 


146 


150 


154 


157 


161 




9 " 


138 


140 


142 


145 


147 


150 


154 


158 


161 


165 




10 " 


141 


143 


145 


148 


151 


154 


157 


161 


164 


169 




11 " 


145 


147 


149 


151 


154 


157 


160 


164 


168 


173 


6 ft. 




150 


152 


154 


156 


158 


161 


163 


167 


171 


176 



1 Private communication, printed by permission of Thomas D. Wood, M.D. 
Professor of Physical Education, Columbia University. 



406 DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 

In ascertaining height — measure yourself in shoes; stand erect, and 
press measuring rod down against the scalp. Weigh yourself in indoor 
clothing and shoes. If shoes have sensible heels, subtract one inch 
for height; if heels are "high," subtract two inches. 

In the treatment of obesity two methods are employed: 
(i) reduction of the amount of food consumed; (2) in- 
creased muscular work or exercise. The greatest success is 
attained when both methods are used. 

Among the popular reduction cures are those which fol- 
low : 

Reduction Cure 1 

Dr. von Ncorden 

Among all the methods to be found none appeals more 
strongly to the intelligence than the reduction cure recom- 
mended by von Noorden, as it places the emphasis on the 
regulation of food intake as affecting: first, slight obesity; 
second, moderate obesity and third, marked obesity. 

Method of Calculating Food Requirements. — The as- 
sumption is made that a patient weighing 70 kilos (154 
pounds) requires for ordinary activities 37 calories per kilo 
or 2590 calories in all as his "maintenance" diet; if this 
patient weighs 100 kg. (220 lbs.) this is 30 kg. over what he 
should weigh for his height, and while the 2590 calories are 
enough to maintain him at 70 kg. (154 lbs.), it would re- 
quire 1 1 10 extra calories to feed these 30 kg. extra. The 
ideal weight for his height being 70 kg., his maintenance 
diet is therefore 2590 calories, so that in calculating the 
calories necessary for any individual, account must be taken 
of the maintenance diet for that particular person, from 
which must be taken one-fifth, two-fifths, or three-fifths 
of the maintenance allowance, e. g.: 

1st. Degree of reduction diet, four-fifths of the demand, 
2000 calories. 

2d. Degree of reduction diet, three-fifths of the demand, 
1500 calories. 

1 Carter, Howe and Mason, "Nutrition and Clinical Dietetics," Lea & Febiger, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 



OBESITY 407 

3d. Degree of reduction diet, three-fifths to two-fifths of 
the demand, 1500 calories down to iooo. 1 

It is easy to arrange Diets 1. and 11. for all that is needed 
in Diet 1. is to omit all visible fat, such as oil, butter, fat 
meat, etc., to have vegetable and farinaceous dishes made 
with little fat and to prohibit the use of alcohol. 

In Diet 1 1, dishes made from flour, stewed fruits, milk and 
soups containing flour must be forbidden as well. The re- 
sults of these diets are slow, but if lived up to, the reduction 
will come gradually. 

In Diet ill. the foods should be chosen from this list: 

"Coffee, tea without milk or sugar; meat broth (fat skim- 
med off) with vegetables; lean meat or fish (total weight 
250 to 350 gm. — 8 to 10 oz. — weighed cooked) ; lean cheese ; 
abundant green vegetables and salads, prepared with as little 
fat or oil as possible ; vinegar, lemon, pickles, tomatoes, 
celery, radishes (abundant raw fruit with small percentage 
of sugar, as apples, peaches, strawberries, raspberries, cur- 
rants, blueberries, sour cherries, grapefruit, early oranges, 
etc.) ; coarse bread (bran or graham bread) in quantities 
of from 40 to 70 gm. (1 1/3 to 2 1/3 oz.) per day only; 
potatoes prepared without fat, in quantities of from 80 to 
150 gm. (2 2/3 to 5 oz.) ; mineral waters ad libitum; wine 
for weak persons up to 200 c.c, but preferably omitted alto- 
gether; eggs, one or two; skimmed milk; buttermilk." 2 

The diet must be calculated in calories necessary for the 
individual, and von Noorden advises against this third de- 
gree of reduction except under direct supervision of the 
physician, best in a sanatorium. 

Fat and Carbohydrate Restriction. — The fats must be 
restricted to 30 gm. (1 oz.) per day, but considerable carbo- 
hydrate in fruit, potatoes, bread and buttermilk is allowed, 
von Noorden says that it is not necessary to go below 160 
gm. (3 1/3 oz.) of carbohydrate in a day's ration and he 
usually permits 120 gm. (4 oz.). This fairly generous sup- 

1 Disorders of Metabolism and Nutrition, von Noorden, Obesity, page 31 
2 Von Noordon, ibid. 



408 



DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 



ply of carbohydrate contributes to the sparing of the body 
albumin better than 53 gm. of fat, although the latter has 
the same caloric value. 

Hunger should not be allowed, for it will result in the fail- 
ure of the cure or else a rapid return to overeating as soon 
as the cure is over. This may be accomplished by feeding 
foods of considerable bulk but of low food value. 

Protein Allowance. — The diet allows a fair amount of 
protein, 120 to 180 gm. (4 to 6 oz.) which is necessary to 
spare the body albumin. On the basis of what has been 
said von Noorden builds his minimal and maximal diets as 
follows : 

Minimal. 

Protein 120 gm. (4 oz. ) 492 cal. 

Fat 30 gm.(l oz.)280 cal. 

.100 gm.(3^ oz.)410 cal. 



Carbohydrate 



Maximal. 

180 gm.(6 oz.)738 cal. 

30 gm.(l oz.)280 cal. 

120 gm.(4 oz.)492 cal. 



1182 cal. 



1510 cal. 



Food Combinations and Menus 

(LOW CARBOHYDRATE — LOW FAT DIETS ) 

von noorden's obesity diet 1 



Breakfast : 

Mid forenoon 
Luncheon : 



Afternoon : 
3:00 P. M. 
4:00 P. M. 
6:00 P. M. 

Dinner : 



Lean meat, 80 gm. (2 2 /z oz.) ; bread, 25 gm. (1 oz.) ; 
tea, one cup with milk, no sugar. 

One egg. 

Soup, 1 small portion; lean meat, 160 gms. (5^3 oz.) ; 
potatoes, 100 gms. (33^ oz.) ; fruit, 100 gms. (3^ oz.). 

Cup of black coffee. 
Fruit, 200 gm. (6 2 / 3 oz.). 
Milk, 250 c.c. (8 oz.). 

Meat, 125 gm. (3% oz.) ; bread (graham), 30 gm. 
(1 oz.) ; fruit, small portion as sauce without sugar; 
salad, vegetable or fruit, radishes, pickles. 



banting's obesity diet 2 (very severe) 

Breakfast : 

8:00 A. M. 150 to 180 gm. (5 to 6 oz.) meat or broiled fish (not 
a fat variety of either) ; a small biscuit or 30 gm. 

1 Osier's Practice. 

2 Carter, Howe and Mason, "Nutrition and Clinical Dietetics," Lea & Febiger, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 



OBESITY 



409 



Dinner : 
1:00 P. 



Tea: 
5:00 P. 



Supper: 
8:00 P. 



(1 oz.) dry toast; a large cup of tea or coffee without 
cream, milk or sugar. 

M. Meat or fish as at breakfast, or any kind of game or 
poultry, same amount ; any vegetables except those 
that grow underground, such as potatoes, parsnips, 
carrots or beets; dry toast, 30 gm. (1 oz) ; cooked fruit 
without sugar; good claret, 300 c.c. (10 oz.), Madeira 
or sherry. 

M. Cooked fruit, 60 to 90 gm. (2 to 3 oz.) ; one or two 
pieces of zwieback; tea, 270 c.c. (9 oz.) without milk, 
cream or sugar. 

M. Meat or fish, as at dinner, 90 to 120 c.c. (3 to 4 oz.) ; 
claret or sherry, water. 210 c.c. (7 oz.). 
Fluids restricted to 1050 c.c. (35 oz.) per day. 

ebstein's obesity diet 1 

The proteins are diminished, carbohydrates greatly restricted, fat 
freely permitted. The following is an example of Ebstein's diet : 

Breakfast: White bread, well toasted, 2 ounces (60 gm.), and 
well covered with butter. Tea, without milk or sugar, 
8 or 9 ounces (240 to 270 c.c). 

Dinner : Soup made with beef marrow. Fat meat, with fat 

sauce, 4 to 5 ounces (120 to 150 gm.). A moderate 
quantity of asparagus, spinach, cabbage, peas, or beans. 
After the meal, tea without milk or sugar, 8 or 9 
ounces (240 to 270 c.c). 

Supper : An egg, a little roast, with fat. About an ounce (30 

gm.) of bread, well covered with butter. Tea without 
milk or sugar, 8 or 9 ounces (240 to 270 c.c). 

oertel's obesity diet 1 

Contains less fat, more proteins and carbohydrates than 
Ebstein. The free water permitted is only one pint daily. 
This method is especially adapted for obesity cases with 
feeble hearts. An example of Oertel's diet follows : 

Morning: A cup of coffee, or tea, with a little milk T about 6 

ounces (180 c.c.) altogether; bread, 3 ounces (90 gm.). 

Noon: Three to 4 ounces (90 to 120 c.c) of soup; 7 to 8 

ounces (210 gm. to 240 gm.) of roast beef, veal, game, 
or poultry; salad or a light vegetable; a little fish, 1 

^'St. Luke's Dietary," St. Luke's Hospital, New York City. 



4io 



DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 



ounce (30 gm.) of bread or farinaceous pudding; 3 to 
6 ounces (90 to 180 gm.) of fruit for dessert. No 
liquids at this meal, as a rule, but in hot weather 
6 ounces (180 c.c.) of water may be taken. 

Afternoon: Six ounces (180 c.c.) of coffee or tea, with as much 
water. An ounce (30 gm.) of bread as an indulgence. 

Evening: One or two soft-boiled eggs; 1 ounce (30 gm.) of 

bread; perhaps a small slice of cheese; a little salad, 
fruit; 8 to 10 ounces (240 to 300 c.c.) of water. 

OBESITY DIET 1 
Massachusetts General Hospital 

Breakfast : Cup of black coffee (with milk but no cream or sugar), 
raw fruit (1 orange, apple, pear, or y 2 grapefruit), 
eggs (one or two, boiled or poached), toast (one or 
two small slices, i.e., 10-20 grams, usually without 
butter). 

11:30 A. M. Cup bouillon (250 c.c), skimmed milk or buttermilk, 
or fruit. 

Luncheon : Clear soup, 120 c.c, moderately lean meat or fish, 100 
grams (or eggs), two varieties green vegetables, 50-100 
grams each, as spinach, lettuce, cabbage, cauliflower, 
onions, lentils, beets, carrots, string beans, celery or 
squash. 

5 :00 P. M. Raw oysters, moderately lean meat or fish, 100-150 
grams, two varieties green vegetables, 50-100 grams 
each (as in luncheon), salad (fruit or vegetable) with 
small quantity of French dressing), raw or unsweet- 
ened cooked fruit, orange, grapefruit, apple, pear, 
grapes, demi-tasse black coffee. 

The above menu represents, according to choice, a maxi- 
mum and minimum value, as follows : 





Protein 


Fat Carbohydrates Calories 


Minimum 


60 


50 70 1000 


Maximum .... 


100 


70 165 1738 



Water in Obesity. — Water does not increase weight un- 
less there is retention of chlorides. Hence, as von Noorden 
states, the restriction of water is not important except in 
four conditions: (i) in cases with weak circulation; (2) at 
the beginning of an obesity cure for the sake of the mental 

1 Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass. 



OBESITY 411 

effect on the patient, for by restriction of fluids loss of 
weight is apparently greater; (3) when reduction of water 
causes less appetite for fat producing foods, e. g., water after 
sweets ; (4) when the sweat excretion is excessive. It is 
also true that when water is permitted with meals the ap- 
petite is increased and there is a tendency for the individual 
to eat more food. 

Kinds of Food to Use: 

Meat and Fish All lean meats and fish, except as noted below, but 

without rich dressing or sauce. 

Soups Thin soups in moderation. 

Eggs In any form except scrambled, fried and omelette. 

Fruits All fresh varieties except bananas, and berries, 

without cream and sugar ; if cooked, use saccharin. 

Vegetables String beans, water-cress, lettuce, radish, cucum- 
ber, asparagus, green peas, Brussels sprouts, cab- 
bage, cauliflower, okra, onions, celery, watermelon, 
tomato, artichoke, spinach, white potato in mod- 
eration, mushrooms, squash, beets, turnips, carrots, 
parsnips, oyster plant. 

Beverages Tea, coffee, skimmed milk, lemonade (with sac- 
charin), ginger ale. 

Desserts Made of gelatin, or Irish moss, if with but little 

sugar ; use saccharin or sweetena in place of sugar. 

Foods to be Avoided or Greatly Restricted: 

Starches Bread, crackers, cereals, maccaroni, vermicelli, 

spaghetti, sago, tapioca, corn, cornstarch, sweet 
potatoes, shelled beans, dried peas or beans and 
nuts. 

Sweets Sugar, candy, dried fruits, syrups, fruit preserves, 

honey, marmalade and sugar sauces. 

Meats Pork, bacon, goose, sausage, croquettes. 

Fish Shad, fresh salmon, eels, sardines, mackerel, blue- 
fish, fried fish. 

Fats Butter, cream, olive oil, bacon, lard, fat meats and 

fish. 

Desserts Ices, rice puddings, cake and gingerbread. 

Emaciation 

In the feeding of an individual who is much below nor- 
mal weight, the aim should be to give enough more food than 



412 DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 

is necessary to meet the patient's energy requirement, to per- 
mit of the storage of extra energy in the form of body fat. 
If muscle tissue as well as fat has been wasted away the 
diet must include liberal amounts of protein to rebuild the 
body substance. 

The foodstuffs which are capable of forming body fat 
are fat, carbohydrate and protein. The most concentrated 
source of body fat is fat, which furnishes 9 calories per 
gram or 255 calories per ounce of fat. Carbohydrate and 
protein yield 4 calories per gram or 113 calories per ounce. 
It is unwise, however, in many cases to attempt to feed 
large quantities of fat in fattening diets because of the 
danger of upsetting the digestion or of loss of appetite. 
Carbohydrates are a readily available, easily digested source 
of calories. Protein, after the nitrogen has been split off 
(see page 43), can be burned to yield energy or to be stored 
as body fat. 

In the effort to give a large number of calories, however, 
one must never forget that good nutrition is impossible un- 
less the diet provides all the materials required by the body. 
The protein needs will usually be met by a high calory diet, 
but care must be taken that the requirements of the body 
for calcium, phosphorus and iron are met and the vitamines 
must be liberally supplied if the body is to use the extra 
calories to best advantage. 

Methods of Calculating the Food Requirement. — The 
estimation of the food requirement of an individual who is 
under weight should be based upon two factors: his physi- 
cal activity and the degree of emaciation. If the patient 
is to gain in weight, enough food must be consumed to pro- 
vide the energy he requires for his muscular activity and to 
allow the storage of extra fuel as body fat. 

The principle on which a diet for emaciation is planned 
is that of the High Calory Feeding 1 which is used in typhoid 
fever, with this difference, that the exclusion of coarse foods 
is usually not necessary, 

1 Dr. Coleman's "High Calory Diet," note page 365. 



EMACIATION 413 

Suggestions For Diet: 

1. A well-balanced diet will include, in addition to the 
foods listed below under 2, a liberal supply of milk, 
vegetables, especially the leaf vegetables, and fruits. 

2. Extra calories may be supplied by 

a. Foods rich in fat ; butter, cream, olive oil, egg yolk, 
nuts, peanut butter, bacon, etc. 

b. Foods rich in carbohydrates; cereals of all kinds, 
breads, macaroni, spaghetti, tapioca, cornstarch, cane 
sugar, lactose, syrups, etc. 

c. Foods rich in protein ; milk, cheese, eggs, meat, fish, 
and poultry, etc. 



4H 



DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 



Food Combinations and Menus 

(high fat-carbohydrate-protein diet) 

FATTENING DIET FOR THIN WOMEN 1 NO. I 

Calories, 3000-3050— Ordinary Requirement, 2200 Calories: protein, 
69.64 gm.; fat, 182.19 gm.; carbohydrate, 285.90 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



Breakfast : 

Prunes 

Grapenuts 

Egg 

Toast 

Butter 

Cream, thin 

Sugar 

10 :30 A. M. Cocoa 

Lunch or Supper : 

Corn Chowder .... 

Fruit Salad 

Roll 

Butter 

Chocolate Blanc 

Mange 

and 
Whipped Cream... 

4 :00 P. M. Egg in Orange Juice 



Dinner : 



Broiled Steak 

Scalloped Potatoes. 
Buttered Beets .... 
Lettuce and Tomato 

Salad 

Salted Almonds.... 

Boiled Custard 

Macaroons 



4 medium 
(dry) 
3 tbsp. 
1 

2 slices 

1 tbsp. 

Va cup 

1 tbsp 

% cup 

% cup _ 

1 serving 

1 

\y 2 tbsp. 

Vz cup 

2 tbsp. 

1 egg, 3 tbsp. 
orange juice, 2 
tsp. sugar 

piece 3"xl^2" 

X3/T 

1 cup 

Vz cup 

1 serving 

12 nuts 

V2 cup 
2 



1.40 
1.00 
2.40 
1.00 

.50 
5.40 

.50 

7.60 



4.40 

3.00 

1.30 

.70 

3.80 

.90 



4.20 



3.00 
5.20 
2.00 

5.40 

.50 

3.30 



.75 
3.00 
6.25 
3.50 

.13 
3.75 

8.00 

4.50 

1.50 

3.00 

.26 

4.50 

.50 



6.25 



17.50 

3.25 

.75 

1.50 
3.25 
5.00 
1.50 



69.64 3050 



Mary Swartz Rose, Ph.D. "Feeding the Family," The Macmillan Co., 1921. 



EMACIATION 



415 



FATTENING DIET FOR THIN WOMEN, NO. II 

Calories, 8022: protein, 86.75 gm. ; fat, 158.32 gm. ; carbohydrate, 

355.64 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 





fc 


u 

2 





U 


OS 


° 


s 



Breakfast : 

7:30 A. M. Baked Apple. 

Oatmeal 

Bacon 

Toast 

Butter 

Sugar 

Cream (thin) 
Coffee 



10 :30 A. M. Cocoa . . 

Lunch or Supper : 

Creamed 



4:30 P. M. 
Dinner : 



Eggs on 
Toast 

Spinach 

Brown Bread 

Butter 

Pineapple with 

Whipped Cream 
and Almonds 

Lady Fingers 

Grape juice Egg-nog 

Cream of Tomato 

Soup 

Halibut Steak 



1 medium 
*A cup 

4 sm. slices 

2 slices 
1 tbsp. 
1. tbsp. 

H cup 



1 serving, i.e. 
1 egg, etc. 
Vi cup 



slices 

tbsp. 

slice 

tbsp. 

nuts 



cup 



Boiled Potato 

Creamed Peas 

Roll 

Butter 

Cabbage Salad 
Raisin and Cran- 
berry Pie 



piece 3"x2 l /i" 

xl" 

1 medium 

V2 cup 
1 
1 tbsp 

X A cup 

sector 3" at 
circumference 



2.30 


.25 


3.90 


4.12 


.50 


3.25 


.1.00 


3.50 ; 


.50 


.13 


.50 




5.40 


3.75 


7.60 


8.00 


6.00 


13.50 


425 


1.87 


1.00 


3.50 


.50 


.13 


2.30 


.25 


.90 


.50 


.25 


1.87 


1.00 


2.50 


5.40 


5.25 


4.20 


4.00 


3.00 


15.25 


4.00 


2.75 


2.70 


4.50 


1.30 


4.00 


.50 


.13 


1.40 


1.50 


3.00 


2.25 




86.75 



100 
50 
100 
100 
100 
50 
300 



250 



300 



100 
100 
100 
100 
50 
100 

150 



100 

100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
50 



300 



416 



DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 



FATTENING DIET FOR THIN MEN 

Total Calories, 3450 — Ordinary Requirement, 2400 Calories: protein, 
96 gm. ; fat, 175.28 gm. ; carbohydrate, 385.28 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 






Breakfast : 

7:30 A. M. Banana, served with 
Shredded Wheat... 
Scrambled Eggs . . . 

Popovers 

Butter 

Sugar 

Cream (thin) 

Coffee 

Lunch or Supper: 

Macaroni and cheese 
Lettuce with 

French Dressing. . . 
Whole Wheat Bread 

Butter 

Prune Souffle...... 

Chocolate (all milk) 



Dinner : 



Cream of Celery 

Soup 

Lamb Chop, loin . . . 

Baked Sweet Potato 
Canned Corn ...... 

Rolls 

Butter 

Lemon Milk Sherbet 
Plain Cookies 



1 banana 
1 

Yz cup 
2 

1 tbsp. 
1 tbsp. 

Y A cup 



1 cup 



serving 
slices 

inch thick 
tbsp. 



% cup 
Yz cup 



1 cup 
1 (2 inches 
thick) 

1 medium 
Yz cup 



tbsp. 

cup 

(2Ya inch 



diameter) 



5.50 


1.24 


.90 


3.25 


4.20 


10.00 


4.00 


9.00 


.50 


.13 


.50 




5.40 


3.75 


4.00 


8.50 


1.80 


.37 


2.10 


5.40 


.75 


.20 


3.60 


5.00 


6.20 


6.20 


7.20 


5.50 


2.20 


20.00 


6.00 


3.00 


3.60 


2.75 


2.60 


8.00 


.75 


.20 


3.80 


2.00 


.90 


1.50 




95.99 



100 
100 
200 
200 
100 
50 
300 



200 
150 

150 

150 
200 
200 

200 

200 
200 
100 
200 
150 
200 

100 

3450 



ACIDOSIS 417 

Acidosis 

The condition of acidosis results mostly from a faulty 
metabolism of fats. Instead of their being completely oxi- 
dized to C0 2 and water, there is an incomplete oxidation 
with the formation of acetone bodies, which appear in the 
blood and the urine. The natural alkaline reserves of the 
body are much depleted by the unusual demand upon them 
to neutralize this unusual acid production. 

The oxidation of fatty acids seems in some way depen- 
dent upon carbohydrate in the diet and the condition of 
acidosis may arise as in diabetic mellitus from restriction of 
carbohydrate food. 

Dietetic Treatment. — Reduction of fat in the diet is the 
obvious treatment and with this the use of foods in which 
the base forming elements predominate. These include alL 
vegetables, fruits and milk, while the foods in which acid 
forming elements predominate include meats, eggs and 
grains. The latter class of foods should be restricted. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 
DIABETES MELLITUS 

1. How can you explain the cause of diabetes? 

2. What is the outstanding symptom of the disease? 

3. Outline the modern method of treatment. 

4. Why should care be given to the balance between the amounts 

of fats and carbohydrates given? 

5. Give in detail Dr. Joslin's method of treatment in preparation for 

and during the fasting period. 

6. What is meant by carbohydrate tolerance ? How is it established ? 

7. How are proteins and fats introduced into the diet? 

8. What is the treatment if sugar appears at any time in the urine? 

9. What is meant by 5% vegetables? 

10. What advice would you give a patient regarding commercial 

diabetic foods? 

GOUT 

11. What derangement of metabolism characterizes gout? 

12. What is the general principle of feeding in this disease? 

13. Give a list of foods rich in purins. 

14. Give a list of purin-free foods. 

15. Arrange a day's menu of purin-free foods where soft diet should 
be given. 






418 DISTURBANCES OF METABOLISM 

OBESITY 

16. State some of the causes of overweight. 

17. Give some good reasons why the condition should be avoided 

or treated. 

18. How can you ascertain if you are overweight? 

19. How may the condition be treated? 

20. What is von Noorden's principle of treatment as to carbohy- 
drate, fat and protein allowance? 
.21. Outline a day's menu according to von Noorden. 

22. Give names of other popular diets. 

23. What effect does water have upon reduction? When should it 

be restricted? 
.24. Give a list of foods that may be used in obesity diets. 
25. Give list of foods to avoid. 

EMACIATION 

.26. Explain the principle involved in a diet to increase weight. 

27. From what may body fat be formed? 

28. What conditions should be observed in the selection of foods in 

this diet? 

29. Aside from the caloric value of foods, what care should be given 

to their selection? 
.30. How would you calculate the food requirement in such cases? 
31. Give a list of- foods you would supply liberally in the diet. 

ACIDOSIS 

.32. Discuss the cause of acidosis. 

,33. How may it be relieved by dietetic treatment ? 



CHAPTER XVI 
DIET IN DEFICIENCY DISEASES 

Pellagra 

While pellagra is classed among the "deficiency dis- 
eases" the specified food element to be taken in the dietary 
of pellagra sufferers has not been as definitely determined 
as in some other such diseases. The vitamines, the protein 
supply and mineral constituents of the diet are all under 
question. The disease yields to treatment, however, when 
the diet is of adequate caloric value, with rather high protein 
and furnishing a liberal supply of mineral salts and vita- 
mines A & B. The protein allowance should be ioo to 125 
grams daily, obtained mostly from meat and the legumes. 
Milk, fruit and green vegetables, plentifully used, will yield 
sufficient amounts of the vitamines and mineral salts. 

If diarrhea is persistent but little cellulose should be given 
and vegetables should be in form of puree. 

Scurvy 

Dietetic Treatment. — Scurvy is undoubtedly due to a diet 
lacking in that vitamine known as vitamine C. It is present 
in appreciable quantities in milk and in most uncooked vege- 
tables and fruits, being especially abundant in cabbage, 
beets, lettuce, onions, potatoes, spinach, tuimips, lemons, 
oranges and grapefruit. Cooking impairs the value of 
this antiscorbutic property in all foods and destroys it en- 
tirely in many. Heat has less destructive effect on those 
foods whose vitamine content is very low. In the adult diet, 
the disease can always be avoided by including raw fruits 

419 



420 DEFICIENCY DISEASES 

and vegetables, and the introduction of such foods into the 
diet of a patient suffering from the disease quickly effects 
a cure. Treatment of Infantile Scurvy is given in the chap- 
ter on Infant Feeding, page 592. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 
PELLAGRA 

1. Discuss cause and treatment of pellagra. 

SCURVY 

2. What is the cause of scurvy? 

3. How may it be prevented or cured? 



CHAPTER XVII 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 1 
Tuberculosis 

Loomis Sanatorium 

Diet in Tuberculosis, Pulmonary or General. — "In none 
of the infectious diseases is a proper dietary of so great 
importance as in tuberculosis. One has only to think 
of its older name, consumption, to realize the truth of this 
statement. Whether the disease is seen in its acute or 
chronic form, pulmonary or other distribution, the necessity 
for a definite feeding plan is paramount. There can be no 
possible doubt that food, good food, properly chosen, prop- 
erly prepared and eaten in cheerful surroundings, is our 
sheet anchor in this disease." 2 ■ 

The old method of stuffing the patients with food whether 
they wanted it or not and requiring them to consume large 
quantities of milk and eggs, has passed into disuse in most 
modern sanatoria as it has proved to be of no real benefit 
and was an important contributing cause of the gastric atony 
which so often developed under this treatment. Neither is 
great gain in weight above the normal for the individual 
now considered of advantage. 

Food Needs. — The tuberculosis patient should be given a 
diet of sufficient nutritive value to maintain a weight slightly 
above normal. It is not desirable that this should exceed 
five or ten pounds. If the patient has lost weight by reason 
of the disease or any of its complications, the diet should 
be regulated accordingly. The total caloric value required 

l Arranged under the supervision of the Loomis Sanatorium, Loomis, N. Y., 
for Pattee's Practical Dietetics, 1922. 

«,"-, a , rt , er ' Howe and Mason, "Nutrition and Clinical Dietetics," Lea & Febiger, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 

421 



422 DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 

will depend much upon whether the patient continues at 
work or is put on exercise or whether the usual physical 
activities are given up during the treatment. The working 
patient would, of course, require more food than the one 
at rest. 

Protein Requirement. — Opinions differ as to the amount 
of protein it is best to give. The diets most commonly 
recommended for the tuberculous have a higher protein 
content than the normal requirement. However, as McCann 
has recently emphasized, high protein diets greatly increase 
metabolism and the demands upon the cardio-respiratory 
mechanism and also produce undesirable effects on the 
digestive and excretory systems. Better results were ob- 
tained at the Loomis Sanatorium with a 130-gram protein 
allowance in a 3200 calory diet, than when 150 grams of 
protein were given, and it has been shown that satisfactory 
nutrition may be maintained on less than 100 grams if the 
fats and carbohydrates are properly adjusted. 

Suggested Dietary Standards. — For the resting patient 
from 2500 to 3000 calories with 80 to 100 grams protein. 
Standards : 1 to 7 inclusive, page 332-333, Carter, Howe and 
Mason. McCann suggests 60 to 90 grams of protein, with 
fat up to the limits of digestive capacity, and sufficient 
carbohydrates to bring the total caloric value up to 2500 or 
3000 calories. The carbohydrates, according to McCann, 
should furnish at least 1/5 of the total calories in order to 
prevent acidosis from fat metabolism, but should not be 
consumed in excess because of their effect in unduly in- 
creasing pulmonary work. 

While the proper diet is an important factor in the treat- 
ment of tuberculosis, the influence of good hygienic condi- 
tions, and especially of properly regulated rest and exer- 
cise, must also be emphasized. Plenty of fresh air is an essen- 
tial but provision should be made to. keep patients comfort- 
able when out of doors. The main object in treatment is to 
build up in the body such strong defenses against the activ- 



TUBERCULOSIS 423 

ity of the tubercle bacillus that its rapid growth is ar- 
rested and its results minimized. 

Administration of Diet. — If there are no serious gastric 
disturbances and the patient's appetite is good it is consid- 
ered best to give only three meals a day. Sufficient amounts 
must be taken to satisfy the individual requirement and if this 
cannot be done in three meals these may be supplemented 
with an extra diet of sandwich or milk. If a patient is able to 
take only small amounts at a time more frequent feeding must 
be resorted to, every four hours or possibly every two hours. 
The latter is not advised unless absolutely necessary. It is 
often better to wait and rest the gastro-intestinal tract dur- 
ing periods of acute disturbance, when there may be nausea, 
intestinal gas and abdominal discomfort. 

Kinds of Food to Use. — Milk and eggs are still considered 
valuable in the diet of the tuberculous but not in the quan- 
tities used some years ago, being added with due regard for 
their real nutritive value and with consideration of the 
gastro-intestinal tract. An excessive consumption of food 
not only increases metabolism but respiratory work as well 
and is especially contra-indicated during febrile periods. 
Various modifications of milk may be resorted to when the 
appetite is poor or when there is an irritable condition of the 
stomach and intestines. In such cases buttermilk, or some of 
the fermented milks such as Kumyss, Kefer or Zoolak, may 
often be used with good results. Egg forms an important 
source of protein and fat and when included in the diet it 
must be so considered. Slightly cooked eggs are advised 
rather than raw because more easily digested. Fatty foods 
are of very great value. The necessary increase in caloric 
value is made from fats rather than carbohydrates because 
these are less liable to cause digestive disturbances from fer- 
mentation. Animal fats such as those from meat, butter, 
eggs and cream, are given preference over vegetable fats. 
Carter, Howe and Mason put the fat from cod livers at the 
head of the list, saying that it furnishes something, possibly 



424 DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 

iodine, possibly some vitamine, that does more for the patient 
than other fats do. 

Food Combinations and Menus 1 

(HIGH CALORY — MEDIUM PROTEIN DIET) 

SUGGESTIONS FOR A BALANCED TUBERCULOSIS DIET 1 

Breakfast : 

Fruit — fresh, canned or stewed. Stewed dried fruit is of the 

highest food value. 
Figs, dates, currants, grapes, prunes, raisins and apricots are of 

the highest value. 
Cereals — all kinds; cooked ones are the best. 
Meat, fish, and eggs ; choose one kind or small portion of two. 
Bacon F - , 

Eggs I 18 * Meat Alone 

Potato ^ ggs 

Use bread, rolls, or toast ; eat at least one order of it. Plenty of 

cream on cereal. Glass of milk, more if breakfast has been 

light. 

Dinner : 

Soup. 

Fish and meat, small servings. Meat, full order if taken alone. 

Potatoes, mashed or boiled. 

Vegetables, use two kinds. 

Salad, dessert, crackers and cheese. 

Vegetables of the highest vegetable protein are in order given ; 
dried beans (baked beans, lima, and red kidney), peas, cab- 
bage, creamed spinach, succotash, sweet potatoes, cauliflower, 
corn, beets, plain spinach, asparagus, tomatoes, stewed onions. 

Crackers and bread and butter. Large order of cheese if meat 
and fish has not been desirable. 

Milk and coffee. 

Supper : 

Either rice or farina, cornmeal mush, milk toast, crackers and 

milk or cream soup. 
Choose between hot and cold meat, eggs or salads. 
Potatoes, baked, boiled, creamed, fried or scalloped. 
Dessert. 

Use plenty of bread, toast, or the rolls and butter. 
Glass of milk if light supper is eaten. Drink plenty of milk. 
Milk should be used as a food. 
Milk and raw eggs make excellent diet between meals. 

1 Arranged by the Loomis Sanatorium, Loomis, New York, for Pattee's Prac- 
tical Dietetics, 1922. 



TUBERCULOSIS 425 

REGULAR TWO HOUR DIET FOR ONE WEEK 1 
AVERAGE CALORIES PER DAY, 1867 

For 1810 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 83.6 gm. ; 
fat, 97 gm. ; carbohydrate, 127.8 gm. 

Sunday : 

6 A. M. Milk 190 gm., 1 raw egg. 

8 A. M. Fruit 90 gm. 

10 A. M. Broth 100 gm., toast 14 gm., beef juice 96 gm. 

12 Noon Soup 120 gm., chicken 30 gm., potato 40 gm., ice cream 
100 gm. 

2 P. M. Cocoa 120 gm., bread 20 gm., butter 15 gm. 

4 P. M. Beef juice 96 gm., milk 190 gm. 

6 P. M. Bouillon 120 gm., fruit 70 gm., sandwich of scraped beef 
37 gm., bread 12 gm., butter 8 gm. 

For 1811 Calorics a Day: Approximate values — protein, 74.7 gm. ; 
fat, 96.4 gm. ; carbohydrate, 125.2 gm. 

Monday : 

6 A. M. Milk 190 gm., 1 raw egg. 

8 A. M. Fruit 90 gm., cereal 180 gm., cream 75 gm., coffee 120 gm., 
bread 20 gm., butter 15 gm. 

10 A. M. Cocoa 120 gm., toast 14 gm., beef juice 96 gm. 

12 Noon Thick soup 120 gm., chop 40 gm., potato 40 gm., bread 
20 gm., butter 15 gm. 

2 P. M. Beef juice 86 gm., 1 raw egg. 

4 P. M. Milk 190 gm., 1 raw egg. 

6 P. M. Beef broth 120 gm., toast 14 gm., lettuce salad 25 gm. 

8 & 10 Milk 190 gm. each. 

For 1810 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 79 gm. ; fat, 
105 gm. ; carbohydrate, 199 gm. 

Tuesday : 

6 A. M. Milk 190 gm., 1 raw egg. 

8 A. M. Fruit 90 gm., bacon 30 gm., coffee 120 gm., toast 14 gm. 

10 A. M. Shredded wheat 28 gm., cream 75 gm., sugar 16 gm., 
1 raw egg. 

1 Arranged by the Loomis Sanatorium, Loomis, New York, for Pattee's Prac- 
tical Dietetics, 1922. 



426 DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 

12 Noon Chicken broth 120 gm., rice 30 gm., beef sandwich as 
above. 

2 P. M. Egg orangeade (1 egg albumin and orange juice), beef 
juice 96 gm. 

4 P. M. Milk 190 gm., beef juice 96 gm. 

6 P. M. Steak 75 gm., potato 40 gm., bread 20 gm., butter 15 gm., 
baked apple 90 gm. 

8 & 10 Milk 190 gm. each. 



For 1961 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 70 gm. ; fat, 
110 gm. ; carbohydrate, 117 gm. : 

Wednesday : 

6 A. M. Milk 190 gm., 1 raw egg. 

8 A. M. Fruit 90 gm., cocoa 120 gm., toast 14 gm., 1 raw egg. 

10 A. M. Lettuce sandwich, milk 190 gm., 1 raw egg, beef juice 
96 gm. 

12 Noon Thick soup 120 gm., fricasseed chicken 30 gm., potato 
30 gm., celery 25 gm., ice cream 100 gm. 

2 P. M. Rice pudding 40 gm., bread 20 gm., butter 15 gm. 

4 P. M. Milk 190 gm., 1 raw egg. 

6 P. M. Scraped beef sandwich, orange and banana salad 70 gm., 
beef juice 96 gm. 

8 & 10 Milk 190 gm. each. 



For 1563 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 70 gm. ; fat, 
75 gm. ; carbohydrate, 180 gm. 



Milk 190 gm., 1 raw egg. 

Cream of wheat 80 gm., milk toast, coffee. 

Egg lemonade, beef juice 96 gm. 

Soup 120 gm., scraped beef sandwich, onion or celery 

25 gm. 

Beef broth 120 gm., bread 20 gm., butter. 

Milk 190 gm., 1 raw egg. 

Corn meal mush 90 gm., milk 140 gm., fruit 70 gm. 

Milk 190 gm. each, 



6 A. 


M. 


8 A. 


M. 


10 A. 


M. 


12 Noon 


2 P. 


M. 


4 P. 


M. 


6 P. 


M. 


8 & 10 



TUBERCULOSIS 427 

For 1810 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 92.2 gm. ; fat, 
772 gm. ; carbohydrate, 150 gm. 

Friday : 

6 A. M. Milk 190 gm., 1 raw egg. 

8 A. M. Fish 70 gm., toast 14 gm., coffee 120 gm., beef juice 96 gm. 

10 A. M. Cocoa 120 gm., 1 raw egg. 

12 Isoon Steak 75 gm., potato 40 gm., custard 90 gm., milk 190 gm. 

2 P. M. Gruel 80 gm. 

4 P. M. Milk 190 gm., beef juice 96 gm. 

6 P. M. Omelet (egg 48 gm., milk 50 gm.), toast 20 gm., apple 
sauce 100 gm. 

8 & 10 Milk 190 gm. 

For 2180 Calorics a Day: Approximate values — protein, 86 gm. ; fat, 
123 gm. ; carbohydrate, 141 gm. 



Milk 190 gm., 1 raw egg. 

Bacon 30 gm., toast 14 gm., coffee 120 gm. 

Grape nuts 60 gm., cream 75 gm., 1 raw egg. 

Roast beef 57 gm., apple and nut salad 50 gm., bread 
20 gm., butter 15 gm. 

Milk 140 gm., toast 28 gm., milk 190 gm. 

Beef juice 96 gm., 1 raw egg. 

Chop 40 gm., potato 30 gm., junket 40 gm., toast 14 gm., 
beef juice 96 gm. 

8 & 10 Milk as above. 

LIGHT DIET 1 

This rather restricted diet is used for patients with an irritable 
gastro-intestinal tract, some of whom probably have definite intestinal 
lesions. 

The following foods are allowed: 
Fluids Milk, tea, cocoa, plain broth or creamed 

soups. 

Eggs Soft, boiled or poached. 

Cereals and vegetables .. Cream of wheat, farina, rice, baked or 

mashed potato. 

Arranged by the Loomis Sanatorium, Loomis, N. Y., for Pattee's Practical 
Dietetics, 1922. 



Saturday : 


6 A. 


M. 


8 A. 


M. 


10 A. 


M. 


12 Noon 


2 P. 


M. 


4 P. 


M. 


6 P. 


M. 



428 DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 

ANTI-CONSTIPATION DIET 1 
LIGHT DIET 

No. 1 

7:00 A. M. 1 glass of cold water or 40 gm. orange juice. 

8:00 A. M. 300 gm. buttermilk, coffee and cream, 2 soft boiled 
eggs, 150 gm. graham bread, 40 gm butter. 

10:00 A. M. 400 gm. cider 

12:30 P. M. 200 gm. broth, 1 egg, 100 gm. steak, 100 gm. carrots, 
100 gm. beans, 150 gm. graham bread, 200 gm. stewed 
apples. 

4:00 P. M. 400 gm. buttermilk. 

7 :00 P. M. 100 gm. scraped beef, 150 gm. graham bread, 200 gm. 
stewed prunes, 300 gm. cider. 

9:00 P. M. 40 gm. figs. 

No. 2 

Vegetables. .Cauliflower, cabbage, asparagus, spinach, peas, salad, 
celery, tomato. 

Cereals Oatmeal, cornmeal, pettijohn, shredded wheat. 

Breads Whole wheat, brown, rye. 

Fruits Apples, pears, figs, dates, prunes, honey, cider, oranges. 

Meats Chicken, beef, lamb. 

Avoid. Tea, cocoa, chocolate, rice, barley, farina, milk. 

Foods Allowed on Light Diet: 

Soups All kinds. 

Toast Dry, buttered, milk or cream, zwieback and crackers. 

Milk All forms. 

Eggs Any form except fried. 

Desserts ...Custards, snow pudding, jellies, junket, ice cream. 
Fruit Oranges, grape fruit, grapes, baked apples. 

All cereals. Oranges or lemonade with egg. Occasionally beef or 
scraped beef sandwich. Oysters, raw or stewed. Creamed sweet- 
breads. 

ANTI-ACID DIET 1 

STRICT DIET 

8 A. M. Milk 200 gm. 

Soft boiled eggs 2 

1 Arranged by the Loomis Sanatorium, Loomis, N. Y., for Pattee's Practical 
Dietetics, 1922. 



TUBERCULOSIS 429 

Toast 60 gm. 

Butter 30 " 

10 A. M. Sherry wine 50 " 

Egg 1 

Noon. Chicken or broiled meat 100 " 

Spinach or asparagus 100 " 

Stewed apple or prunes 100 M 

Stale bread 60 " 

Butter 30 " 

4 P. M. Milk 150 c.c. 

Crackers 50 gm. 

Butter 30 " 

7 P. M. Milk 100 " 

Butter 25 M 

Zwieback 20 " 

Soft boiled eggs 1 " 

LIBERAL DIET 

8 A. M. Broiled veal 70 " 

Stewed veal 100 " 

Beefsteak 70 " 

Fowl 70 " 

Eggs 1 " 

Toast 30 " 

or 

Zwieback 20 " 

Sherry wine 2 oz. 

Butter ..: 20 gm. 

10 A. M. Milk 500 c.c. 

Toast 40 gm. 

Butter 20 " 

Noon. French soup with yolk of egg 

Broiled or boiled fowl 140 " 

Raw meat — Beefsteak 200 " 

Broiled or boiled fish 

Asparagus heads 4 " 

Toast 20 " 

Omelet souffle 

Small cup black coffee 

Butter 10 " 

4 P. M. Milk 250 c.c. 

Zwieback 60 gm. 

Butter 20 " 

7 P. M. Cold meat 70 " 

Meat jelly 100 " 

Toast 20 " 

Swiss or Dutch cheese 20 " 



430 DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 

ANTI-CONSTIPATION FULL DIET 1 

Breakfast : 

A.M. Fruit Any kind fresh or cooked. 

Cereal Oatmeal, petti John, shredded wheat or corn- 
meal. 

Eggs One or two cooked in any form. 

Bread Graham, whole wheat or rye, or graham 

muffins. Bread may be toasted. 

Butter Large amount. 

Coffee With cream and sugar. 

Buttermilk One glass if necessary to maintain weight. 

Dinner : 

1 P.M. Soup All kinds, except cream soups. 

Meat or fish Small amount. 

Vegetables Extra large amount — all kinds. Potatoes — 

small amount. 

Salads Lettuce with fruit or vegetables, olive oil. 

Bread As at breakfast. 

Butter As at breakfast. 

Dessert Raw or cooked fruit. 

Buttermilk. 

Supper : 

6 P. M. Soup or cereal.. As at breakfast. 

Meat, fish or 

eggs Small amount. 

Salads As at dinner. 

Bread and but- 
ter As at breakfast and dinner. 

Dessert Fruit. 

Buttermilk One glass if necessary. 

Foods to Avoid: 

Tea, cocoa, chocolate, rice, farina, cream of wheat, milk 
(as far as possible), excess of meat, fish or eggs, potatoes, 
puddings without fruit, white bread or cream soups. 

Take in Abundance: 

Fruit and fruit juices, green vegetables (two or three times 
the usual amount), salads (two a day), butter, olive oil, 
prunes, grapes, apples, pears, oranges, pineapples, dates, figs, 
peaches-, apricots, etc., cider, grape and orange juice, whole 
wheat, rye or graham bread. 

Arranged by the Loomis Sanatorium, Loomis, N. Y., for Pattee's Practical 
Dietetics, 1922. 



TUBERCULOSIS 43* 

CONCENTRATED DIET 1 

For 2417.96 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 109.8 gm. ; 
fat, 104.9 gm. ; carbohydate, 242 gm. 

Beef Juice 288 gm 90 oz. 

Eggs 3 gm. 

Cocoa 240 gm. 

Toast 45 gm. 

Rice (cooked) 160 gm. 

Zwieback 20 gm. 

Baked Potato 80 gm. 

Hominy 80 gm. 

Sugar 8 gm. 

Cream 64 gm. 

Skimmed Milk 360 gm. 

Beef Lamb Poultry. 

INEXPENSIVE MENUS FOR TUBERCULOSIS 1 

For 3041 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 127 gm. ; 
fat, 107 gm. ; carbohydrate, 372 gm. 

Bread for day 80 gm. 

Butter " " 32 gm. 

Milk " " 1430 gm. 

Cream " " 160 gm. 

Cocoa " " 250 gm. 

Sugar " " 78 gm. 

Schedule of Feeding: 

Breakfast Gm. Dinner Gm. Supper Gm. 

Prunes 75 Bouillon, wafers. 120 Creamed beef 89 

Quaker oats, cream 25 Baked halibut .... 122 Baked potato 80 

Bacon 10 Mashed potatoes. 160 Dutch cheese 39 

Corn muffins 20 Stewed tomatoes 150 Biscuit 43 

Bread, butter Lemon jelly, _ Baked apples. 

Coffee, cocoa, milk cream 95 cream 75 

Bread, butter Bread, butter 

Milk Tea, cocoa 

For 3456 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 145 gm.; 
fat, 123 gm. ; carbohydrate, 419 gm. 

Bread for day 120 gm. 

Butter " " 28 gm. 

Milk " " 1549 gm. 

Cream " " 155 gm. 

Cocoa " " 60 gm. 

-Arranged by the Loomis Sanatorium, Loomis, N. Y., for Pattee's Practical 
Dietetics, 1922. 

2 Loomis Sanatorium — cf. King, "On the Construction of an Efficient and 
Economic Diet in Tuberculosis," Medical Record, Oct. 16, 1900. (Still in use, 
1922). 



432 DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 

Schedule of Feeding: 

Breakfast Gm. Dinner Gm. Supper Gm. 

Orange Fricasseed chicken 200 Boston baked beans, 

Pettijohn 24 Sliced tomatoes.. 98 catsup 82 

Sausage 63 Mashed potatoes. 126 Marmalade 15 

Corn bread 40 Boiled rice 37 Chocolate cake 67 

Bread, butter Vanilla ice cream 120 Prunes 63 

Coffee, cocoa Bread, butter Bread, butter 

Milk, cream Milk Tea, cocoa, milk. 

Pneumonia 1 

Loomis Sanatorium 

Because pneumonia is usually of short duration the 
amount of food given has not been considered so important 
as in some other diseases. However, when the illness is pro- 
tracted and convalescence is delayed, it is most desirable that 
the body should not become too much weakened and proper 
dietary treatment must be considered. 

Kinds of Food to Use. — During the acute febrile stage, 
i. e., in lobar pneumonia, prior to the crisis, the diet should 
consist chiefly of fluids, with gruel, custard and jelly added 
if desired and possibly lactose if well tolerated. The addition 
of cream has been suggested (Carter, Howe and Mason) 
but it is doubtful if many patients during this stage will 
tolerate either much cream or lactose. Plenty of water is 
allowed and fruit drinks like lemonade, orangeade or grape- 
juice are refreshing to the patient. 

Administration of Diet. 2 — "Since sleep is of the utmost 
importance in pneumonia, a rest from feedings at night of 
from six to eight hours is advisable if the patients will sleep, 
but they are to be fed when awake not oftener than every 
two hours. With the onset of tympanites feedings must be 
stopped for a few hours so that the beneficial effects of 
stupes to the abdomen and a hypodermic of pituitary extract, 
etc., may be obtained. When feedings are resumed it is often 

1 Arranged under the supervision of the Loomis Sanatorium, Loomis, N. Y., 
for Pattee's Practical Dietetics, 1922. 

2 Carter, Howe and Mason, "Nutrition and Clinical Dietetics," Lea & Febiger, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 



PNEUMONIA 433 

better to leave sugar and milk out of the diet unless the latter 
is fully peptonized (2 hours) or else given in some othei 
form than raw milk. The use of other artificial digestants 
is often of service. 

"In this connection it seems worth while calling attention 
to the use of a good Bulgarian bacillus culture given in a 
little sweetened water three times a day on an empty stomach. 
The apparent effect of this is often most happy in reducing 
the distention, as is also indicated in the discussion of 
typhoid fever." 

A good diet for an average-sized person might be for- 
mulated as follows : 1 

For 1825 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 90 gm. ; 
carbohydrate, 220 gm. 
8 A. M. Milk and coffee, each 120 c.c. (4 oz.), 240 c.c. (8 oz.) 
sugar. 

Milk in any form, hot or cold, 240 c.c. (8 oz.) 

Gruel, 120 c.c. (6 oz.) 

Milk feeding, as at 10:00 A. M., 240 c.c. (8 oz.). 

Gruel, 120 c.c. (4 oz.), with milk, 180 c.c. (6 oz.). 

Custard with lactose (4 oz.) 1 cup. 

Milk feeding, as at 10.00 A. M., 240 c.c. (8 oz.). 

Whey, 180 c.c. (6 oz.) with one whole egg and sherry, 

15 c.c. (y 2 oz.). 

Gruel, as at 12:00 o'clock noon. 

Milk as at 10:00 A. M. 

Whey, 180 c.c. (6 oz.), or hot milk 240 c.c. (8 oz.). 

Milk as at 10 :00 A. M. 

Diet in Convalescence. — The liquid or semi-solid diet 
should be continued until temperature falls and symptoms of 
toxemia are passed. There should then be a gradual return 
to normal feeding through the usual soft and convalescent 
diets. All through this period the diet should be very nour- 
ishing and easily digested. During this period, as appetite 
returns, the total calories may be increased by the addition of 
cream suggested (1 pint divided between meals). 

-r>. 1 .? a , rter ' H °we and Mason, "Nutrition and Clinical Dietetics," Lea & Febiger, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 



10 A. 


M. 


12 


M. 


2 P. 


M. 


4 P. 


M. 


6 P. 


M. 


8 P. 


M. 


10 P. 


M. 


12 P. 


M. 


2 A. 


M. 


4 A. 


M. 


6 A. 


M. 






434 DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 

Acute Bronchitis 

This may be the result of an initial respiratory infection, 
or it may appear as a complication of certain exanthemata or 
certain chronic diseases. 

Kinds of Food to Use. — During the acute febrile stage the 
diet should be liquid or semi-solid, somewhat similar to that 
in pneumonia except that frequently more food can be taken. 
Instead of adding lactose, some butter may be given and 
cereals and creamed toast may be added. As soon as a pa- 
tient wishes solid food it may be given, using only easily 
digested food. Should the disease accompany gout or 
nephritis as it does with some elderly people, the diet should 
be such as is recommended for those disorders. 

Chronic Bronchitis 

Chronic bronchitis is frequently a condition accompanying 
other diseases and the diet must be arranged according to the 
requirements of that disease. 

If, however, there is no other disorder the diet should be 
made up of foods which are easily digested and which do 
not easily ferment, avoiding an excess of carbohydrate, as 
this has been shown considerably to increase the respiratory 
work. (Vide McCann, W.S.) 

Fatty foods, as cream, butter, fat meats, etc. 

Laxative foods, as fruits, green vegetables, simple salads. 

Water, 6 to 8 glasses a day. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 
TUBERCULOSIS 

1. Discuss the food requirements for tuberculosis patients. 

2. What should be the protein allowance? 

3. What is considered the best distribution of fats and carbohydrates? 

4. Discuss arrangement of meals. 

5. State what foods are best adapted for this diet. 

PNEUMONIA 

6. Discuss the dietetic treatment of pneumonia. 

7. How may tympanites be relieved? 

BRONCHITIS 

8. What reason is there for some restriction of carbohydrates in 

pulmonary and bronchial affections? 



CHAPTER XVIII 

DIET IN DISEASE OF THE CIRCULATION 
High Blood Pressure 

Dr. G. Oliver 1 

Reduction of Cardio- Vascular Stimulation. — The prin- 
cipal aim in our dietetic directions should be to select a 
diet which has the least stimulating effect on the circulatory 
organs. Hence we should reduce as much as possible not 
only the bulk of each meal but also the proportion of those 
constituents of the foodstuffs which more particularly stimu- 
late the cardio-vascular apparatus, such as various salts, 
soluble extractives, active principles and other bodies (e. g. 
alcohol), which are directly absorbed without change, and 
may be regarded as exogenous hormones between the diges- 
tive tract and the circulatory apparatus, stimulating the heart 
on the one hand and the capillary circulation on the other. 

In the normal state of the circulation the vaso-motor play 
of the peripheral parts is free and responds to the variations 
in the heart action ; but this harmony becomes disturbed in 
cases of supernormal arterial pressure, in which the stress 
of any stimulation of the circulation falls more and more on 
the heart muscle, with increment of the arterial pressure 
Hence in such cases we should try to modify as much as 
possible the cardio-vascular stimulation produced by the in- 
gestion of food. 

The next important point is to correct digestive irregu- 
larities, (and examine the mouth for carious teeth and 
pyorrhoea, which commonly cause gastric disturbances and 
possibly by the absorption of toxins contribute to a rise in 

^'Studies in Blood Pressure," by Dr. G. Oliver. H. K. Lewis & Co., Ltd., 
London, England. 

435 



436 DISEASE OF THE CIRCULATION 

blood pressure. — A.M.). We should encourage extra masti- 
cation and insalivation, especially of the amylaceous food- 
stuffs, which are generally so soft as not to seem to need any 
mastication at all and are consequently bolted, whereas it is 
more important to masticate and insalivate them thoroughly 
than the protein foods. 

The supply of meats of all kinds should be reduced below 
the proportion ordinarily taken, some being satisfied merely 
to reduce or to disallow the red meats (beef and mutton), 
while they permit the taking of white and young meats (fish, 
poultry, veal, etc.,) in ordinary quantities. Though the prac- 
titioner is nearly always inclined to select what are called 
lighter meats, I cannot say that I have observed any differ- 
ence of effect on the arterial pressure of the various forms 
of roast or fried meats — whether as beef, mutton, fish, 
poultry, etc. A more important difference in this respect 
seems to me connected with the way in which the meats are 
cooked — whether roasted and taken with the gravy, or 
boiled and served without the broth. I therefore make it a 
rule in these cases to substitute, as much as possible, boiled 
for the roasted or fried forms of fish, fowl, beef, mutton, 
etc., and to exclude from the dietary meat extractives, such 
as meat soups, gravies, etc. The proportion of green vege- 
tables and fruits should be increased and carbohydrate foods 
may be taken in moderation. As a rule I think the cases do 
best on the reduction of an ordinary diet as a whole, with a 
diminution of the animal and an increase of the vegetable 
foodstuffs. The reduction of the ingesta to physiological 
needs and expenditure is particularly important in the man- 
agement of cases of high arterial pressure ; for some of these 
patients are inactive and, feeling weak and run down, crave 
for the stimulant effects of tonics, a full meat diet, an ex- 
cess of salt and other condiments and alcoholic drinks. 

Type of Diet. — Non-stimulating diet — low protein, high 
carbohydrate, low salt. In obese cases reduce quantity of fat 
and carbohydrates. 



HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE 



437 



HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE DIET 
(SALT-PCOR DIET) 

For 2425 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 72 gm. ; 
fat, 101 gm. ; carbohydrates, 307 gm. 





W 








Id 




OS 




£ 




, H 




p 


C/i 




3 = 


SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 


en 

i 


< 



w 

H 

O 


< 



1 

2 

2/ 2 



Breakfast : 

Grapefruit y 2 

Farina (Salt-Free) '. 6 2 A tbsp. 

Eggs 

Salt-Free Bread Toasted 
Butter (Salt-Free) .... 

Sugar 

Cream (orange) 

Orange marmalade 

Coffee (Caffein-Free) ...I 
Luncheon : 

Fresh Mackerel 1 

Lemon 1 

Spinach ) 

Baked Potato 1 

I Fresh Tomato ... 1 

{ Lettuce 2 

Vinegar | 

Bread (Salt-Free) 

Butter (Salt-Free) 

Baked Apples 

Cream 

Sugar 

Coffee (Caffein-Free) 

Dinner : 
Broiled chicken with bone 
Sweet Potato (baked) . . . 

String Beans 

Celery hearts 

Lettuce 

Orange 

Salad- Grapefruit 

Banana 

Grapes 

Mayonnaise dressing .... 

Bread (Salt-Free) 

Sugar 

Butter (Salt-Free) | % tbsp. 

Cream 1 tbsp. 

Coffee (Caffein-Free) 



thin slices 

tbsp. 

tbsp. 

tbsp. 

tbsp. 



serving 
slice 



cup 
large 
small 
leaves 



2 thin slices 

\ l A tbsp. 

\ l / 2 apple 

\y 2 tbsp. 

l l A tbsp. 



1 serving 

1 medium 

rt cup 

J A heart 

2 leaves 

3 sections 
\y 2 sections 
6 slices 

1 tbsp. 

2 thin slices 
*A tbsp. 

44 ' 



150 






100 


1.6 






15.0 


11.0 


30 


3.0 


.3 


15 




12.7 


30 






50 


1.5 


10.0 


30 


.2 


.... 


80 


15.2 


5.6 


10 


1 




100 


2.0 




130 


3.7 


.2 


150 


1.5 




30 


.3 




30 


3.0 


.3 


20 




17.0 


200 


2.0 




30 


.9 


6.6 


20 






150 


19.7 


1.5 


150 


3.0 


1.5 


100 


2.0 




50 


.5 




20 


.2 




30 


.3 




40 






20 


.2 




20 


.2 




21 


.3 


19.9 


30 


3.0 


.3 


12 






13 




10.9 


20 


.6 


4.0 




72.0 


101.0 



7.5 
11.5 

1*6.5 

30.6 

2.5 
25.3 



1.0 

3.0 

32.0 

6.0 

.9 

16.5 

40.6 

1.5 

20.0 



41.0 
7.0 
1.5 
.6 
3.0 
2.0 
4.4 
3.8 

16.5 

12.0 

' V.6 



307.0 



438 



DISEASE OF THE CIRCULATION 



Soper's High Blood Pressure Treatment 1 
As a working rule the following diet was given and the 
patient instructed to follow it for a week. 

DIET LIST 

1. Always bring this list with you when returning to this office. 

2. Do not under any circumstances eat or drink anything else. 

3. Eat slowly and chew the food well. 

4. One glass cold water upon arising. 
Breakfast : Oranges or grape fruit. 

Cereals with cream. 

Eggs — soft boiled, poached, omelet. 

Toast and Butter. 

One cup hot water flavored with cream. 
11 A. M. One glass of cold water. 
Lunch : Orange or grape fruit. 

Creamed vegetable soups (no meat stock). 

Stewed white onions, oyster plant, carrots, celery, spinach, 

asparagus, string beans, well-mashed squash, well-mashed 

turnips, cauliflower, artichokes, baked or broiled egg 

plant, okra, corn. 

Raw celery, onions, tomatoes, olives. 

Lettuce, tomato and fruit salad, with French or mayon- 
naise dressing. 

Custards, gelatines, cornstarch, tapioca. 

Stewed fruits. 

Whole wheat bread and butter. 

Raw fruits. 

One glass cool water. 
4-5 P. M. One glass cool water. 
Dinner: Creamed vegetable soups (no meat stock). 

Roast beef, roast lamb, roast chicken, or roast turkey, 

without dressing. 

Broiled lamb chops, broiled steak. 

Baked fresh fish. 

(Portion of meat to correspond in size to the lean part 

of one lamb chop.) 

Potatoes well-mashed, or rice well-cooked. 

Other vegetables same as at lunch. 

Whole wheat bread and butter. 

Stewed fruits. 

Raw fruits. 

One glass cool water. 
At bedtime : One glass cool water. 
Avoid: Avoid all condiments, such as mustard, horse radish, 

catsup, etc. Use very little sugar, very little salt, no 

pepper. All vegetables should be very well cooked with- 
out the addition of meat, fat, or salt. 
a Dr. Horace W. Soper, "The Dietetic Treatment of Arterial Hypertension," 
Interstate Medical Journal Co., St. Louis, Mo. 






LOW BLOOD PRESSURE 439 

Upon the patient's return to the office the approximate 
amount of food eaten, together with the protein, was calcu- 
lated by Arnold's method. Additions and subtractions were 
made as appeared to be indicated, taking into consideration 
the general condition of nutrition, the digestive processes, as 
well as the subjective symptoms. 

In many cases meat was withdrawn, then added from time 
to time, and the results noted. Two thousand calories and 
50 to 60 grams of protein represented the average daily 
quantity consumed. However, some patients consume more 
than 100 grams, one in particular reaching the high figure of 
150 grams. In many cases considerably less protein was 
used to produce the initial fall in blood-pressure. 

General hygienic measures, such as physical exercise, 
periods of rest, abstinence from alcohol, coffee, tea and 
cocoa and reduction in tobacco when used to excess, were in- 
sisted upon in all the cases. 

Water. — The daily quantity of water to be consumed is 
another important feature. Eustis and others recommend 
copious water drinking with the idea of flushing out the 
tissue poisons. Von Hecht on the other hand severely re- 
stricts the fluid intake. My experience is that water should 
be used regularly and in sufficient quantities to produce 
proper elimination — approximately two quarts daily. 

Low Blood Pressure 

Dr. G. Oliver 1 

Diet. — The value of meat and meat extractives in the 
treatment of an asthenic condition of the circulation has of 
late years been thrown somewhat into the background by our 
dread of uric acid and the other purin bodies which are asso- 
ciated with goutiness and indeed our dietetic directions gen- 
erally have thus to a considerable extent become vitiated and 
lopsided. In low-pressure cases roast meats and gravies 
should predominate in the diet and when meats are not ad- 

^'Studies in Blood Pressure," by Dr. G. Oliver. H. K. Lewis & Co., Ltd., 
London, England. 




440 DISEASE OF THE CIRCULATION 

missible in the crude form, as when there is a rise of tem- 
perature, extractives of them, which are valuable cardiac 
stimulants and restoratives, should be give frequently in 
small quantities. In many cases of acute illness, such as 
diphtheria, pneumonia and influenza, in which the heart is 
apt to fail, watery extracts of muscle when given in judi- 
cious intervals often afford timely aid in tiding the heart over 
a critical period, acting like other stimulant remedies quickly 
and decisively and enforcing the sustaining effects of food 
(milk, etc.,) which requires time for its absorption and as- 
similation. They should not be given, as they were some 
years ago, as substitutes for food. Alcohol, especially in 
the form of brandy egg-flip, acts in a similar way when ad- 
ministered with food. Sodium chloride (salt) is another 
stimulant of the circulation which is apt to be overlooked. It 
should never be omitted from the liquid foods, such as milk, 
and I would suggest that it should be given along with cal- 
cium and potassium chloride in the proportions present in 
Ringer's circulating fluid, 1 which may form the menstruum 
of the drinks — lemon, barley or toast water. 

The due apportionment of rest and the regulation of ex- 
ercise are most important in the treatment of low-pressure 
patents. In acute cases absolute recumbency is of course 
necessary. In chronic cases and during convalescence from 
febrile ailments the prescription of exercise frequently re- 
quires to be well guarded in order to prevent recurrence of 
atonia and consequent delay in recovery, and in such cases 
recumbency should be enjoined during the hypotonic periods 
following the meals and exercise, when undue draining of 
blood into the splanchnic veins takes place. In low-pressure 
cases abdominal massage and faradism of the abdomen are 
useful. 

Type of Diet. — Stimulating diet — rich in meat extractives 
and sodium chloride. 

1 Aseptulcs containing the chlorides of sodium (6 parts), potassium (3 parts), 
and calcium (1 part) are supplied by Messrs. Oppenheimer, Son & Co. for the 
ready preparation of Ringer's solution — one aseptule being dissolved in 20 oz. 
of freshly boiled water. 



LOW BLOOD PRESSURE 



441 



LOW BLOOD PRESSURE DIET 

For 2372 Calorics a Day: Approximate values — protein, 95 gm. ; fat, 
128 gm.; carbohyrate, 210 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 




Breakfast : 

Orange 

Oatmeal 

Eggs 

Bacon med. fat weighed 
raw 

Bread (toasted) 

Butter 

Cream 

Sugar 

Coffee 

Luncheon : 

Cold Pickled Tongue 

Baked Potato 

f Lettuce 

Salad j Oil 

[ Vinegar 

String Beans 

Bread 

Butter 

Grapefruit 

Sugar 

Cream 

Coffee or tea 

Dinner : 

Broth 

Steak (lean sirloin) 

Spinach 

Beets (cooked) 

Celery hearts 

Bread 

Butter 

American Cheese 

Cream 

Ice Cream 

Sugar 

Coffee or tea 



X3 

Vi cup 



4 or 5 large 
slices 

1 med. slice 
Vz tbsp. 

iy 2 tbsp. 

2 tbsp. 



1 large 
3 leaves 
1 tbsp. 

y A cup 

1 med. slice 
Wz tbsp. 



2 tbsp 
1 tbsp. 



Vs cup 

Small serving 
Vz cup 
2 /z cup sliced 

heart 

med. slice 

tbsp. 

small 

tbsp. 

tbsp. 
Vz tbsp. 



lice 



100 
100 



80 

130 

50 

5 

100 
20 
20 

146 
29 
20 



1.0 

2.8 

15.0 



3.0 
2.0 

1,5 



17.0 
3.0 

.5 



2.0 
2.0 



.0 



1501 3.0 

100 24.0 
100 . 2.0 



.5 
11.0 



20.1 

.2 

8.5 

10.0 



7.2 

5.6 



.2 

17.0 



4.0 



10.0 



100 


2.0 




50 


.5 




20 


2.0 


.2 


15 




12.7 


20 


5.3 


7.2 


20 


.6 


4.0 


100 


5.2 


10.2 


20 








95.0 


128.0 



10.0 
11.5 



11.0 

' 2.5 

30.0 



27.0 
1.5 



7.0 
11.0 

" '7.3 

29.0 

1.0 



3.0 

7.0 

1.5 

11.0 



1.0 
17.7 
20.0 



442 DISEASE OF THE CIRCULATION 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 
BLOOD PRESSURE 

1. What type of foods should be restricted or eliminated from diet of 
high blood pressure patients? 

2. Give reason for this restriction. 

3. Does the method of cooking enter into the question? 

4. Is the disorder affected by other physiological conditions? 

5. What type of diet should be given? 

6. Compare with this the diet in low blood pressure cases. 



CHAPTER XIX 
DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 1 

Dr. Max Einhorn 

Two principles of feeding are used in the dietetic treat- 
ment of gastric disorders. One is to spare the organ by giv- 
ing little or no food for a time, a treatment used mostly in 
acute cases the other is by corrective feeding, that is, giving 
foods of such composition that the disordered stomach can 
care for them and by gradual additions be strengthened to 
digest again a normal diet. The second method follows the 
period of rest in acute attacks and is generally used in 
chronic cases. Einhorn points out the necessity, especially 
in chronic cases, of taking sufficient amounts of food to pre- 
vent loss of weight, even though stomach digestion is poor. 
Intestinal digestion so supplements stomach digestion that 
with careful selection of food the body may be well nour- 
ished. 

Indigestion is an indefinite term applied to any discom- 
fort arising from a disordered digestive tract. The seat of 
the trouble may be in the stomach or the discomfort may be 
a symptom of a derangement of the intestines or some of 
the digestive glands. The cause should always be inves- 
tigated as it may be due to some avoidable reason, such as 
rapid eating, poor mastication, individual reaction to certain 
kinds of food, or to the wrong mental attitude while eating. 
Anger, worry and fear undoubtedly inhibit the action of the 
secretory glands of the stomach. Again it may be a warning 
of serious gastric trouble. 

1 Through the kindness of Dr. Max Einhorn, "Diet in Diseases of the Stomach" 
was rewritten under his supervision from his book, "Diseases of the Stomach," 
published by William Wood Co., New York City, 1920. 

443 



444 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

Gastric Hyperacidity 

Type of Diet. — Non-stimulating — high protein and fat 
diet. 

The underlying cause of the excessive acidity must be the 
guide in selecting the diet. If it is due to gastric ulcer the 
treatment for that disorder should be followed. If from 
other causes there are two rules which are safe to follow : 
i. Avoid foods which may excite or stimulate the glands 
of the stomach, such as acids, spices and condiments 
and foods extremely hot or cold. 
2. Give the diet having a high protein content because it 
will readily combine with the free acid present in the 
stomach, also plenty of fats (cream, butter), as the 
latter have a tendency to diminish gastric secretion. 

einhorn's diet in hyperacidity 

For 2539 Calorics a Day: 

Calories. 

7:30 A. M. 2 Eggs 160 

Wheat bread 50 gm 128 

Butter 20 gm 163 

Milk 250 gm 169 

10:30 A. M. Zoolak or Milk 200 gm 135 

Crackers or Bread 30 gm 77 

Butter 10 gm 81 

1:00 P.M. Broiled Meat 100 gm 210 

Mashed Potatoes 50 gm 63 

Bread 30 gm 77 

Butter 10 gm 81 

Weak tea or Vichy Water 200 gm 

3 :30 P. M. The same as at 10:30 A. M 293 

6:30 P. M. Soup (with Barley or Vermicelli) . .200 gm 100 

Bread (30 gm.) and Butter 10 gm 158 

Meat (broiled or boiled) 100 gm 210 

Potatoes baked 50 gm 60 

Green vegetables (spinach, green 

peas) 50 gm 80 

Coffee (half milk) 100 gm 34 

10 :00 P. M. Oysters and Crackers, or Cold Meat 

Sandwich ; 1 glass Beer 260 

2539 



GASTRITIS 445 

Kind of Food to Use 1 : 

Soups Cream of puree (except tomato). 

Fish Raw oysters, fresh cod, halibut, bass, boiled with cream 

sauce or broiled. 

Meat Beef well done (without gristle, fat or gravy), chicken, 

turkey, guinea' hen, lamb (without fat), once daily. 

Vegetables ...All soft-boiled green vegetables, except cabbage, cauli- 
flower, hrussels sprouts, or turnips. Baked white potato 
may be used moderately. Rice or macaroni. 

Cheese Any mild variety, but better without this at first. 

Desserts Cream and egg desserts of all sorts, e. g., blancmange, 

Bavarian cream, floating island, cup custard, junket, 
soft rice or bread puddings. Gelatin desserts made 
with little flavoring. Very little sugar used in all des- 
serts. Fruit, none, except when constipation is a 
marked feature, then stewed soft fruits may be taken 
in good amount, but must be cooked with very little 
sugar and are best taken with or after a meal, never 
before. Cream may usually be used freely. 

Bread Toast, stale bread, roll. (Fresh butter or salt butter 

freshened by working it over in fresh water.) 

Drinks Weak tea, cocoa, water and milk. 

Cereals Fine-grained varieties, well cooked. 

Eggs In all forms except fried. 

Foods to Avoid: 

All sour, spiced or peppery foods, condiments, salt foods, chow- 
chow, etc. Sweets, fried foods. 

Very hot or very cold food or drinks. 

Rough, hard substances, such as seeds, skins of fruit or vegetables, 
corn, uncooked vegetables. 

Coffee, wines, liquors, beer. 

Hot breads, pies, cakes, syrups, etc. 

Gastric Subacidity 

Type of Diet. — Low Protein. 

Protein foods should be limited and only those most easily 
digested included, such as eggs, milk and meats which are 
free from gristle or connective tissue. Carbohydrates may be 
largely given, especially in the form of starch, as in the 
absence of acid salivary digestion continues in the stomach 
longer than normally. Sugar should be given sparingly be- 
cause of its tendency to ferment. 

^r. H. S. Carter, "Presbyterian Diet Lists." W. B. Saunders Co., Phila- 
delphia, Pa. 



446 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

Clear soups are recommended because of their stimulating 
effect on the gastric glands. 

Particular care should be taken to have all foods and 
drinks sterile since the natural germicidal effect of the acid 
of the stomach is largely missing. 

Chronic Gastritis 1 

Dietetic Treatment. — The causes giving rise to chronic 
gastritis are much the same as for the acute form. Repeated 
attacks of acute gastritis may result in a chronic condition, 
or the condition may follow infectious diseases. 

The regulation of the diet is of prime importance in the 
treatment. The dietary to be selected will depend on the 
severity of the symptoms. 

At the beginning, therefore, a light diet will be called for. 
The patient should partake of four meals daily. The articles 
of food should be given largely in liquid and semi-liquid 
forms ; that is, milk, kumyss, matzoon, barley, oatmeal, and 
rice soup prepared in milk ; chicken soup with an egg beaten 
up in it; soft-cooked eggs, mashed potatoes, scraped meat, 
raw, or broiled, toasted bread, and also French white bread 
(not too fresh) ; butter; tea and cocoa. 

The quantity of nourishment for each meal should be 
neither excessively large nor too small. 

My own bill of fare for the first week of the treatment is 
as follows: 

CALORIES 

8 :00 A. M. Two eggs 160 

Two ounces of French white bread 156 

One-half ounce of' butter 107 

One cup of tea (100 gm. of tea, 150 gm. milk) ... 101 

Sugar 10 gm. (5 iiss.) 40 

10:30 A. M. Kumyss or matzoon or milk, 250 gm. (3 viii. Yz) 168 

Crackers, 30 gm. (one ounce) 107 

Butter, 20 gm. (3 v.) .163 

12:30 P. M. Two ounces of tenderloin steak, or of white meat 

of chicken 76 

x Max Einhorn, M.D.: "Diseases of the Stomach." 6th Edition. New York. 
William Wood & Co., 1920. 



GASTRITIS 447 

CALORIES 

Mashed potatoes, or thick rice, 100 gm. (o iii. Yz) 127 

White bread, two ounces 153 

Butter, one-half ounce 107 

One cup of cocoa, 200 gm. (5 vi. 2 /$) 101 

3 :30 P. M. The same as 10 :30 A. M 438 

6 :30 P. M. Farina, hominy, or rice boiled in milk, one plate- 
ful, 250 gm. (5 viii. y 3 ) 440 

Two scrambled eggs 160 

Bread, two ounces 156 

Butter, one-half ounce 107 

2863 

After the patient has been kept on this diet for a week or 
two, the diet must be gradually changed to one suitable for 
the lighter forms of chronic gastritis. Here the following 
rule will apply : The diet should correspond as nearly as 
possible to the common mode of living. In this way the dis- 
tribution of the meals should be arranged according to the 
customs prevailing in those places in which the patient lives. 

All food derived from the vegetable kingdom should be 
given in large portions, while the quantity of meat should be 
somewhat limited. 

In order to permit the patient to have a greater variety 
in his food, it is best not to point out a few articles he should 
eat, but to mention only those he should avoid. Forbid meat 
with very tough fibers, meat from too old animals or too 
fresh meat (right after slaughtering), meat that contains 
too much fat, like pork; forbid sausages, lobster, salmon, 
chicken salad, mayonnaise, cucumbers, pickles, cabbage and 
strong alcoholic drinks like liquors. 

It must be impressed upon the patient to masticate the 
food thoroughly, to eat slowly, not to think of business dur- 
ing meals, and to stop eating before the sensation of satiety 
appears. The latter advice is only necessary in persons who 
are accustomed to high living. 

Chronic gastric catarrh is frequently combined with con- 
stipation. The diet can be arranged as to facilitate move- 
ment of the bowels. All foods which contain a large per- 



448 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

centage of cellulose (undigested matter) increase the quan- 
tity of feces, thereby effecting a stronger peristalsis of the 
larger bowel. 

All kinds of green vegetables (spinach, asparagus, green 
peas) and rye bread are therefore very suitable. Many or- 
ganic acids possess the property of increasing intestinal peri- 
stalsis. Almost all kinds of fruits contain a certain quantity 
of these organic acids, and act like mild aperients. The use 
of cooked pears, stewed or baked apples, stewed prunes, is in 
many instances effective. Ewald recommends a mixture of 
two parts of prunes to one part of dried figs. The taste is 
agreeable, and the cathartic action mild. The custom of 
eating an orange in the morning for its laxative effect is well 
known. To these dietary remedies we may also add the use 
of a glassful of either very cold or warm water, or a glass of 
milk on arising, in the fasting condition. 

There are many persons in whom one of these latter means 
produces a good movement of the bowels. 

Acute Gastritis 

Dietetic Treatment. — Attacks of acute gastritis very often 
follow errors in diet, either over-feeding or the use of un- 
usual quantities of very hot or very cold food, or very highly 
seasoned foods. Poor mastication, either from too rapid eat- 
ing or because of defective teeth, is also a contributing cause. 
In such acute attacks the treatment calls for complete rest 
for one or possible two days that the stomach may rid itself 
of all offending substances and recover from its irritated 
condition, then by beginning with very simple foods and 
gradually increasing the amounts and variety it is brought 
back to its normal functioning. 

Diet in Acute Gastritis. 1 — During the first or second day 
of illness it is best not to give the patient anything substan- 
tial to eat. Strained barley or rice water, or weak tea may be 
taken. On the third day, as soon as the appetite reappears, 

1 Dr. Max Einhorn, "Diseases of the Stomach," 6th Edition. William Wood 
& Co., New York City, 1920. 



J 



ULCER OF THE STOMACH 449 

the patient is permitted to partake of water soup (bread and 
hot water) oatmeal or barley gruel, rice soup, and perhaps 
one soft-cooked egg. Later on French bread, butter and 
oysters may be added to the dietary. 

If the improvement is steadily progressing the fourth day 
begin with meat once a day, and thus slowly return to the 
usual bill of fare. 

Ulcer of the Stomach 1 

The diet consists of liquids — milk, milk with strained bar- 
ley, or oatmeal, or rice water ; plain water, weak tea and 
peptone (one teaspoon to a cup of water). Debove and 
Remond have suggested the addition of lactose and of meat 
powder to the milk, in order to make the diet richer in nour- 
ishing substances. 

As a rule, we employ the above-named additions, which 
fulfill the same purposes, besides varying the monotonous 
bill of fare. 

First Week. During the first week we give the patient half 
a cup (about 100-150 c.c.) of either, every hour. Every- 
thing the patient takes must be neither cold nor very warm, 
and should be taken slowly (sipping, or with a spoon). 

Second Week. During the second week we order the same 
kind of food, with this difference, that he is nourished every 
two hours, and gets a cupful or a cupful and a half (200 to 
300 c.c.) at a time. 

Occasionally we now allow the patient one raw egg beaten 
up in the milk, once or twice a day. In the beginning of the 
third week we feed the patient every three hours ; he is 
allowed barley, farina, and rice (well cooked) in milk, soft- 
cooked eggs, crackers softened in milk, in addition to his 
previous foods ; on the third day of the third week we begin 
to give the patient meat, first raw, well scraped, then broiled. 

Thereafter we go over to the ordinary daily diet, exclud- 
ing heavy salads, pastry, raw fruit and the like. 

\pr. Max Einhorn, "Diseases of the Stomach," 6th Edition. William Wood 
& Co., New York City, 1920. 



450 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

In the following table I give an outline of diet which I 
ordinarily prescribe in this affection : 

einhorn's gastric ulcer diet 
First Three Days 
For 1402 Calories a Day: 

CALORIES 

7:00 A.M. Milk, 150 c.c. (five ounces) 101 

8 :00 A. M. Milk, 150 c.c. (five ounces) 101 

9 :00 A. M. Milk, 150 c.c. (five ounces) 101 

10 :00 A. M. Milk and strained barley water (aa, 150 c.c.) 80 

11 :00 A. M. Milk, 150 c.c 101 

12:00 M. Milk, 150 c.c 101 

1 :00 P. M. Bouillon either alone or with the addition of one to 
two teaspoonfuls of a peptone preparation, 150 

c.c 30 

2 :00 P. M. Milk 101 

3 :00 P. M. Milk 101 

4 :00 P. M. Milk 101 

5 :00 P. M. Milk with strained barley or oatmeal 80 

6,7,8,9P.M. Milk, 150 c.c 404 

Fourth to the Tenth Day 

For 1^10 Calories a Day: 

7 :00 A. M. Milk, 300 c.c. (ten ounces) 202 

9 :00 A. M. Milk, 300 c.c. (ten ounces) 202 

11 :00 A. M. Milk with barley, rice, or oatmeal water, 300 c.c. 160 
1 :00 P. M. One cup of bouillon, 200 c.c, and one egg beaten 

up in it 80 

3 :00 P. M. Milk, 300 c.c 202 

5 :00 P. M. Milk, 300 c.c 202 

7 :00 P. M. Milk with barley water, 300 c.c 160 

9 :00 P. M. Milk, 300 c.c 202 

Eleventh to the Fourteenth Day 
For 1790 Calories a Day: 

7 :00 A. M. Milk, 300 c.c 202 

9:00 A. M. Milk, 300 c.c 202 

and two crackers softened (one ounce) 100 

11:00 A.M. Milk with barley water, 300 c.c 160 

1 :00 P. M. One cup of bouillon, 200 c.c, one egg, and two 

crackers 180 

3 :00 P. M. Milk, 300 c.c, and one egg 282 

5 :00 P. M. Milk, 300 c.c 202 

and two crackers 100 

7 :00 P. M. Milk, with barley water 160 

9:00 P. M. Milk, 300 c.c 202 



ULCER OF THE STOMACH 451 

Fourteenth to the Seventeenth Day 
For 2134 Calorics a Day : calories 

7:00 A. M. Milk, 300 c.c 202 

9:00 A. M. Milk, 300 c.c 202 

and two crackers (one ounce) 100 

11 :00 A. M. Milk with barley, 300 c.c 342 

1 :00 P. M. Scraped meat, 50 gm 60 

two crackers, one cup of bouillon, 200 c.c 100 

3 :00 P. M. Milk, 300 c.c 202 

5 :00 P. M. Milk, 300 c.c 202 

one egg (soft boiled) 80 

two crackers 100 

7:00 P. M. Milk with farina, 300 c.c 342 

9:00 P. M. Milk, 300 c.c 202 

Seventeenth to Twenty-Fourth Day 
For 2820 Calories a Day: 

7 :00 A. M. Two eggs (soft boiled) 160 

Butter, 10 gm 81 

Toasted bread, 50 gm 130 

Milk, 300 c.c 202 

10:00 A. M. Milk, 300 c.c 202 

Crackers, 50 gm 166 

Butter, 20 gm 162 

1 :00 P. M. Lamb chops (broiled) , 50 c.c 60 

Mashed potatoes, 50 gm 44 

Toasted bread, 50 gm 130 

Butter, 10 gm. ; one cup of bouillon, 200 c.c 81 

4 :00 P. M. The same as at 10 A. M 530 

6 :30 P. M. Milk with farina, 300 c.c 342 

Crackers, 50 gm 166 

Butter, 20 gm 162 

9:00 P. M. Milk, 300 c.c 202 

In cases of ulcer of the stomach presenting a more severe 
type — violent pains, frequent vomiting, inability to take food 
on account of the pains — or after haematemesis, I usually 
have the patient abstain from any food whatever, given by 
the mouth, for a period of five days. The patient is then fed 
by the rectum. This is done in the following way : early each 
morning the patient receives a large enema of about a quart 
of lukewarm water, in which a teaspoonful of common table- 
salt has been dissolved as a cleansing enema. About an hour 
after the patient has emptied the injected water the first 
nourishing enema is given ; this may consist either of a glass- 
ful of milk (about 200 c.c), in which a raw tgg has been 
well beaten and a pinch of salt added, or of a cupful of 



452 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

water in which a tablespoon of a good peptone preparation 
has been dissolved. The temperature of either must be about 
ioo° F. Such a nourishing enema is given three or four 
times a day, being slowly injected by means of a fountain 
syringe and a soft-rubber rectal tube. One or two quarts of 
saline or of a 6% glucose solution is given besides, by the 
Murphy drip. The patient may frequently wash his mouth 
with cold water and is allowed from time to time to keep 
a small piece of chopped ice in his mouth and to swallow the 
melted water, also to take a little gelatin. The five days be- 
ing over, the mode of diet is the same as described above for 
the ordinary form of ulcer. 

Other Ulcer Diets 

LENHARTZ's GASTRIC DIET FOR ACUTE ULCER 

The "Lenhartz diet" begins with ioo c.c. milk and one 
egg daily, in teaspoonful doses, gradually increasing until 
at the end of four weeks a liberal mixed diet is allowed, 
always avoiding coarse vegetables and irritating substances. 

The gradual increase of food appears in the accompanying 
scale. 
Preparation of Food for Serving: 

i. Take total of eggs per day (as size of eggs differ) 
beat and measure into seven feedings. Put into med- 
icine glasses and keep on ice until ready for use. 

2. Measure daily requirements of milk and keep in bowl 
of cracked ice. 

3. Spoon used in serving should be kept in a bowl of ice. 

4. Salt eggs very slightly first and second day or salt may 
be omitted. The third day sugar is used. 

5. All feedings should be given very slowly. 

6. On the tenth day some of the milk, eggs and sugar are 
made into custard. The beef is scraped and weighed 
after cooking. Occasionally lime water must be added 
to the milk. If large curds form, the milk is diluted 
with barley water. Great care is exercised in the transi- 
tion stages from liquids to semi-solids and finally to 
full diet. 



ULCER OF THE STOMACH 



453 



Schedule for Feeding: 
First Day : 

7 A. M. 

8 A. M. 

9 A. M. 

10 A. M. 

11 A. M. 

12 M. 

1 P. M. 

2 P. M. 

3 P. M. 

4 P. M. 

5 P. M. 

6 P. M. 

7 P. M. 



15 c. c. ( l /2 oz.). 



Egg. 

Milk, 20 c. c. ( 2 / 3 oz.). 

Egg. 

Milk, 20 c. c. ( 2 / 3 oz.). 

Egg. 

Milk, 

Egg. 

Milk, 15 c. c. (V 2 oz.). 

Egg. 

Milk, 15 c. c. (V 2 oz.). 

Egg. 

Milk, 15 c. c. (H oz.). 

Egg. 



Thus the total for the first day is — eggs (raw), 2; milk, 100 c. c. 
(2>Yz oz.) ; calories, 280. Note Recapitulation of Lenhartz Diet. 



Second Day: 

7 A.M.- Egg 

8 A. M. 

9 A. M. 

10 A. M. 

11 A. M. 

12 M. 
M. 
M. 
M. 
M. 
M. 



P. 
P. 
P. 
P. 
P. 



P. M. 



Milk, 35 c. c. (1 oz.). 

Egg. 

Milk, 35 c. c. (1 oz.). 

Egg. 

Milk, 35 c. c. (1 oz.). 

Egg. 

Milk, 35 c. c. (1 oz.). 

Egg. 

Milk, 30 c. c. (1 oz.). 

Egg. 

Milk. 30 « 



(1 oz.). 

Thus the total for the second day is — eggs (raw), 3; milk, 200 c. c. 
(6 2 / 3 oz.) ; calories, 470. Note Recapitulation of Lenhartz Diet. 



Third Day: 

7 A. M. 

8 A. M. 

9 A. M. 

10 A. M. 

11 A. M. 
M. 
P. 
P. 
P. 
P. 
P. 
P. 
P. 



sugar, 2 gm. ( l / 2 dr.). 



Egg 

Milk, 50 c. c. (l 2 / 3 oz.) 
Egg; sugar, 3 gm. (34 dr.) 
Milk, 50 c. c. (l 2 / 3 oz.). 
Egg; sugar, 3 gm. (^ dr.). 
Milk, 50 c. c. (l 2 / 3 oz.). 
Egg: 
Milk 
Egg; 
Milk 
Egg: 

Milk, 50 c. c. (1;. 
Egg; sugar, 3 gm. 
Thus the total for the third day is — eggs (raw) 
(10 oz.) ; sugar, 20 gm. (5 dr.) ; calories, 637. 
tion of Lenhartz Diet. 



12 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 



M. 
M. 
M. 
M. 
M. 
M. 
M. 



sugar, 3 gm. (34 dr.). 
50 c. c. (l 2 / 3 oz.). 
sugar, 3 gm. (^ dr.). 
50 c. c. (l 2 / 3 oz.). 
sugar, 3 gm. (34 dr.). 



oz.). 
W* dr.). 

\\ milk, 300 c. c. 

Note Recapitula- 



454 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

The preceeding outlines will be sufficient to show the in- 
tervals of feeding and arrangement of the foods. Then the 
directions can be followed for the daily allowance noted 
under the recapitulation as given on the following page. 



ULCER OF THE STOMACH 



455 





N 

c o 




















/ _ N 


^, 


^ 


^ 






M 




















^ 


ff? 


jf 


^ 






<j 
































































J3 =' 


















































o 


o 


o 


O 


























ir> 


lO 


vn 


u-. 




























^ 


^^ 


,_, 






ts 




















^ 


^ 


^ 


^ 




































3 . 




















^^ 


^^ 


^^ 


"»-' 






« £ 
































be 




















O 

CM 


o 


O 


O 
























^ 


,-», 




^ 


^ 






















*•» 


N E 


H £ 




J 


,,j 






J* 

o 
rt 

.0. 
















8 


O bo 


o 00 


o 


O 


o 




















rt CM . 


^ CM . 


N 
O 
CM 


CM 


CM 






















tn 


tn 












N 
















£ 


ggsfs 


E O?^ 


E 


E 


E 




















oo 


bfi*-w 


bo*-^ 


oo 


00 


bo 






















o 


?o 


?o 


o 


o 


o 






















CM 


VO 


oo 


oo 




















^ 


^ 


^ 


^^ 
























# 


;£ 


JF 


?8 


o 


o 


o 


















f} 


m 


VO 


VO 












•a 
































.£ • 
































•3£ 














o 


o 


O 


o 


o 


o 


o 






PQ* 














o 


o 


O 


o 


o 


o 


o 


















~* 


■■« 


CM 


CM 


<*3 


C5 


f3 




















N 


N 


N 


si 


N 




N 






t> 














O 


o 


O 


o 


O 


O 


O 






<u 












u 




















XI 












■fl 


3? 


^5 


^ 


i£ 


# 


^ 


;£ 






T3 












OS 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 






O. 












































s 


E 


E 


E 


E 


E 


E 


£ 






CO 












bo 


bo 


00 


to 


bo 


bo 


bo 


bo 
















VO 


O 


© 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


















ro 


t^ 


t^ 


tv. 


t^ 


t^ 


t>. 


t^ 




















7 


^ 


- 


N 


n 


^ 


^^ 












»~> 


*■> 


/-s 


^ 


o 


n 

o 


o 


O 


o 


N 

o 


N 






u 

be 






14 

IT) 


•a 


g 





s 


;£ 


^ 


5 


5 


o 






3 
CO 






g 


E 





£ 


6 


E 


£ 


E 


E 


£ 


E 












bo 


M 


bo 


bO 


bo 


oo 


bo 


bo 


bo 


bo 


bo 












o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 












esj 


cm 


ro 


m 


"T 


■t 


"*■ 


*»• 


^ 


M" 


■* 














^ 


,-, 




^ 


^-s 




/-^ 


^ 


^^ 


,-, 






tj 


5 


SfS 


/ _ s 


^ 


^ 


^ 


3? 


S?8 


^ 


^ 


S 


^ 


^3 






o 


o 


tn 


VO 


o 


tn 


VO 


o 


<-5 


to 


m 


*n 






J4 


«*> 


VO 


»"H 


y-> 


»H 


N 


CM 


CM 


rr> 


tn 


m 


ro 


tn 


>> 
































rt 






o 


o 


o 


O 


c 


o 


o 


o 


O 


o 


o 


O 


o 


T3 

at 




o 


o 


o 


3 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 




u 




N 


ro 


-1- 


lo 


VO 


t^ 


oo 


ON 


o 


o 


o 


o 


u 






CM 


ro 


1- 


LO 


vo 


^ 


■*■* 


^-v 


^-"V 


* r <* 


■^rV 


^ r -* 


■^ 






3 

W 


& 


£ 


* 


^ 


s 


* 


££ 


*£ 


££ 


*a 


ZZ 


?« 


& 


_,_, J- 




1 


Rj 


rt 


rt 


rt 


n! 


C3 O 


rt o 


c3 o 


« o 


rt O 


rt o 




O «, 




« 


M 


tt 


g 


M 


tf 


« <" 


tf «1 


OH » 


M « 


« w 


(A « 




»s 






O 


o 


r^ 


r^ 


VO 


LO 


O 


o 


CO 


oo 




_ 


t^ 


1 




s 


00 


r^ 


t«j 


t^ 


^O 


t*J 


oo 


CM 


r*i 


t^ 






o 




CM 


«* 


vO 


r^ 


o\ 




in 


r^ 




tt 




Ov 


o 


id 




rt o 












""J 


~ 


~ 


CM 


CM 


CM 


CM 




CO 




Q-a 
































u 


** 


cm 


W 


■♦ 


in 


VO 


r> 


00 


OV 


O 


3 


CM 


c> 


■♦ 



45^ 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 







00 


o 


O LO 


8 


8 


o o 


CO 




LO 




& 


LO CO 


LO ^ 


P^ 




"~ H 




2 






CO 








3 






00 


o 


O LO 


R 


o 


o o 


CO 




Ti- 




o 


LO CO 


o 


ur. 








o 






CO 








© 








1-4 














c- 








00 


o 


O LO 


o 


o 


o © 

LO T 


p^ 






ro 




o 


LT 


co 


o 


00 


© 




»-H 




o 






CO 








© 

CO 






00 


o 


n 


LO 


R 


a 


© © 


_^ 




CM 




o 


Lf 


CO 


vo 


LT 


TT 


Tf 








o 






CO 








o\ 

TV) 




,_j 


oc 


o 

o 




LO 

CO 


8 


8 


c 
1/ 


§ 


^ 




i— I 




o 






co 








8 






■a 


, " H 














u 




00^ 


s 


— 


LO 


a 




- 


8 


00 


it 


o 




ir 


CO 


o 


Tf 


LT 


p^ 






c 








c\j 








TT 


u 




o 


•" ' 














CN 


: 




00 S? 


Q 


— 


LO 


o 


o 






OC 


E 


On 





g 


ir 


CO 


H 


^r 






CO 


M 






—* 














C\J 




u 




on g 


Q 


C 


LO 


O 


^_ 










rt 


X 


nj 

Ih 
Ih 


& 


-T 


CO 


r^ 


CM 






g 


























II 


Px 


OC o 


s 

oc 




LO 

CO 


g 








OC 
CO 
CO 


rt 
























0] 

>> 

Q 


vO 


p^ 


8 

p^ 


- 


LO 

CO 










LO 

CO 






vO 


Q 


c 












u- 






LO 






rr 












ur 








VO 














o> 








LO 


o 


© 












P> 






Tj- 




o 


c\ 




















LO 














P> 













c- 












P> 






co 




o 


p 












CO 








-* 














VC 






CM 


CO 


© 
o 
CO 




















»-H 


CM 


8 

CM 














5 








d, : 


5h 




fi 


R 






! 








3 • 


^ o 




to 


to 






1 . 


































-M C 






















a ; 


o 
o 








s 














rt*0 

c 
o 




E 
b 

u 


6 

ft 


It 

c 


to 

u 

J2 


E 
b 


to 



u 










to £ 


*o.ti 
•o £ 


b 


u. 


3 


1) 


r 


§ 


c 
"c5 






W 


U 


J- 


m 


N 


- 


PQ 


L. 





^H t* 



.2 Q 



ULCER OF THE STOMACH 457 

von leube's gastric ulcer diet 1 

Von Leube, modified by Lockwood 

The principle underlying this diet is that of affording the 
stomach the greatest possible rest. 

1st day. Neither food nor water, the mouth being kept moist by 
washes. If possible, this starvation period lasts three 
days, the Murphy drip being used if thirst is excessive. 

2nd day. Vichy water, 2 to 4 ounces every two hours. 

3rd day. Alternate Vichy with albumin water so that liquids are 
taken every hour. 

4th day. Peptonized milk, 2 ounces ; Vichy, 2 to 3 ounces on alternate 
hours, increasing daily till 8 ounces of each are taken. 

10th day. Begin to add in the following order: milk toast, junket, 
fine cereal. 

21st day. Begin to add in order : spaghetti and macaroni, creamed 
mashed potatoes, creamed fresh fish, thick purees of vege- 
tables that have been put through a sieve, or thick soups 
without meat stock, as well as farinaceous desserts, such as 
farina, tapioca, cornstarch, blanc mange, pudding and 
custard. 
During the fourth week a convalescent gastric diet is given. 

sippy's treatment of peptic ulcer 2 
In uncomplicated cases of peptic ulcer with rare individual 
exceptions, the writer has found the following management 
most serviceable. The patient should be put to bed, where it 
is usually advisable for him to remain for approximately 
three weeks. He may then be allowed to sit up a portion of 
each day and take short walks. In the absence of serious 
complications the patient is usually able to do some or all of 
his work at the end of four or five weeks. 3 

Schedule of Feeding and Treatment: 
For 3 days: 

1. 6:00 A.M. 1 dram (4 gm.) of subnitrate of bismuth is given 

in a little water. 

2. 7 :00 A. M. to 7 :00 P. M. 

Give every hour — Milk, \ l / 2 oz., and cream (40%), 
\ l / 2 oz. Total, 3 oz. each feeding. 

*"St. Luke's Dietary," St. Luke's Hospital, New York City. 
Modified from "Nelson's Loose-Leaf Medicine," Vol. V. "Dr. Carter's Pres- 
byterian Diet List," "Massachusetts General Hospital Diet List." 
3 Sippy's treatment, "Nelson's Loose-Leaf Medicine," Vol. V. 



458 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

3. 7 :30 A. M. to 7 :30 P. M. 

Give alternately every hour the following powders : 

a. 10 grains (0.6 gm.) each of calcined magnesia and 
soda bicarbonate or 

b. 10 grains (0.6 gm.) bismuth and 20 to 30 grains 
(1.3 to 2 gm.) soda bicarbonate. 

The magnesia is used as often as possible, as it 
has the highest neutralizing power for free hydro- 
chloric acid. 

4. Although acidity is best controlled by hourly feedings, some 
cases do well on a two-, three- or four-hourly schedule. 

5. If diarrhea develops, use less of the magnesia powder and more 
of the bismuth. 

After 2 or 3 days : 

Add soft boiled eggs and fine cereals (giving eggs and cereal 
at alternate hours) so that at the end of ten days the patient 
is getting 3 ounces of milk and cream every hour from 7 A. M. 
to 7 V. M. with the addition of 3 soft boiled eggs and 9 ounces 
of cereal (measured after cooking) about 3 ounces to a feeding. 
Each feeding per hour should not exceed 6 ounces. 

After 10 days : 

Add to the diet cream soups, vegetable purees, or soft food, such 
as jellies, custards and cream. Farina, cream of wheat and 
rice cooked to a pulp are best. 

During the 3rd week : 

Add to the diet soft toast, crackers, purees of potato, and other 
cream soups. 

In the 4th week : 

The milk and cream may be increased to 2y 2 ounces (75 c.c.) 
at each feeding, the periods between feedings lengthened to two 
hours, or after three weeks to three hours. 

The bismuth is continued from 6 to 8 weeks and the 
alkaline powders for several months between feedings. For 
a year or more only soft non-irritating foods should be taken. 

"To insure the success of this treatment absolutely accurate 
control of the acidity must be maintained throughout the 
twenty-four hours. This is accomplished by testing the gas- 
tric contents frequently early in the treatment by the stomach 
tube or duodenal tube as follows : 

"The first day or two the tube is passed occasionally to de- 
termine the presence of free HCL ; if present in the stomach 
contents, the alkali powders must be increased as the treat- 



ULCER OF THE STOMACH 459 

ment aims to keep the free HCL absolutely neutralized. 
After the first few days this need only be done two or three 
times a week. It is necessary to be sure that the stomach 
does not contain free acid during the night, and it is neces- 
sary to give two or three alkali powders between 7 and 10 
P. M. to make sure of this. At 10 o'clock the tube should 
be passed and any hyperacid secretion removed. If neces- 
sary, the tube should be passed for the first few days two or 
three times through the night. After the first few days this 
is rarely necessary, the last emptying being done at 10 P. M." 1 

BASTEDO'S GASTRIC ULCER DIET 2 

In the first two weeks, if stomach permits, feed every hour 
(high calory), otherwise, every 2 hours (low calory). Allow 
water as desired in amounts up to 4 oz. at a time. If eggs 
are not acceptable substitute iy 2 ounces of cream for each 

1st day. Peptonized milk, 3 oz. every 1 or 2 hours from 7 A. M. to 
9 P. M. and once in night if patient is awake. Serve hot 
or cold, but not ice cold. 

2nd day. The same, but 4 oz. every 1 or 2 hours. 

3rd day.. One egg in each quart — 4 oz. every 1 or 2 hours. 

4th day. The same; 5 oz. every i or 2 hours. 

5th day. Two eggs in each quart; 5 oz. every 1 or 2 hours. 

6th day. Three eggs in each quart; 5 oz. every 1 or 2 hours. 

7th day. The same; 6 oz. every 1 or 2 hours. 

8th day. Plain milk, 3 eggs in each quart ; 6 oz. every 1 or 2 hours. 

9th day. The same, but for second feeding give saucer (5 oz.) of 
oatmeal gruel or white cereal (arrowroot, cream of wheat, 
farina, hominy, rice) with cream (or milk) and sugar. 

10th day. The same, but for one evening feeding a saucer of junket, 
custard or farina with cream (or milk) and sugar. 

11th day. The same, but at one o'clock, milk toast made with one 
full slice of toast, 4 oz. of hot milk and 1 oz. of cream. 

,,/ I ! r - H - S - Carter, "Diet Lists of the Presbyterian Hospital," New York Cit- . 
W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, Pa. 

2 Dr. W. A. Bastedo, St. Luke's Dietary," St. Luke's Hospital, New York 
City. 



460 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

12th day. The same, but with two slices of toast with hot milk and 
cream. Give next feeding two hours later. 

13th day. The same, but for evening meal, one coddled egg, one 
slice of toast and butter, and junket, custard or farina 
with cream (or milk). One glass of milk or water to 
drink. 
14th to 18th day: 

7 A. M. Cereal as above, one poached or coddled egg, one slice 

of toast and butter, one glass of milk. 
9 A. M. One glass of milk and egg, or equal parts of milk and 
cream. 

1 A. M. Same. 

1 P. M. Minced chicken, creamed brain or sweetbread, or scraped 
cooked beef, one small baked potato with butter, one 
slice of bread and butter, milk or water to drink. 

3 P. M. One glass of milk, or milk and egg, or equal parts of 

milk and cream. 
5 P.M. Same. 

7 P. M. One soft poached egg on toast or soft boiled egg with 
toast, and custard, farina, blanc-mange, junket, plain rice 
pudding or boiled rice, with cream (or milk) and sugar. 

9 P. M. One glass of milk, or milk and egg with two plain 
crackers. 

19th to 28th day (or to end of fifth or sixth week) : 
Breakfast : 

Cereal as above, two eggs, toast, a glass of milk or cup 

of cocoa made with milk. 
11 A. M. A glass of milk and egg, or milk and cream. 

Dinner : 

1. Thickened, strained soup or puree (not made from meat 
stock) or potato, beans, peas, asparagus, corn, celery. 

2. Chicken, lamb chop, beefsteak, creamed sweetbread, 
brain or tripe. 

3. Baked potato, creamed macaroni or spaghetti, rice, 
strained squash or carrots, asparagus tips. 

4. Bread, toast or zwieback with butter. 

5. Lettuce with olive oil and salt. 

6. Milk or water to drink. 

4 P. M. A glass of milk and egg, or milk and cream. 
Supper : 

One egg, toast or bread with butter, and a dessert (cus- 
tard, jelly, farina, cornstarch, junket, vanilla ice cream, 
milk and cereal puddings, tapioca). 
9. P. M. A glass of milk, or milk and cream, with crackers. 
Fifth week and thereafter — Hyperacidity Diet. 



ULCER OF THE STOMACH 461 

einhorn's duodenal feeding in ulcer of stomach 1 

Einhorn gives feeding by means of a duodenal pump or 
tube as "another and more efficient way of giving the 
stomach perfect rest". The pump is inserted into the diges- 
tive tract as far as the duodenum and nourishment injected 
through it. The instrument is left in place from ten to four- 
teen days. 

"The feeding is best done at intervals of two hours. After 
the feeding water and then air is forced through and the 
stop cock closed. We can introduce at one feeding between 
240 and 300 c.c. of food slowly. All fluids must of course be 
at body temperature. Usually the following material was 
used every two hours from seven in the morning until nine 
in the evening : 

Milk, 240 c.c. 

Raw egg, 1 

Sugar of milk, 15 gm. 

The mixture is well beaten up and injected at blood tempera- 
ture. The patient may be given besides, a quart of physiolog- 
ical salt solution by rectum, according to the Murphy drip 
method, or receive water directly into the duodenum very 
slowly drop by drop." 1 

The diet given below is recommended by Einhorn and is 
administered in same way, when milk is not well tolerated 
by the patient. 

einhorn's duodenal feeding diet 1 
Daily Allowance: 

Oatmeal gruel 300 c.c 

Eggs 7 

Pea soup 720 c.c 

Lactose 90 gm 

Bouillon 560 c.c 

Butter 90 gm 

Barley gruel or barley 

water 180 c.c 6 oz 57 

Total calories 3530 

*Dr. Max Einhorn, "Lectures on Dietetics," New York, 1914, page 135. 



12 oz. ... 


Calories 

1476 

490 


24 oz. . . . 


384 


3 oz. . . . 


369 


12 oz. ... 


39 


3 oz. ... 


715 




462 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

Schedule of Feeding: 

7 :30 A. M. Oatmeal gruel 180 c.c 6 oz. 

One egg 

Butter 15 gm y 2 oz. 

Lactose 15 gm ^ oz. 

9 :30 A. M. Pea soup 180 c.c 6 oz. 

One egg 

Butter 15 gm ^ oz. 

Lactose 15 gm y 2 oz. 

11 :30 A. M. Same as 9 :30 A.M. 

1:30 P.M. Bouillon 180 c.c 6 oz. 

One egg 

3.30 P.M. Oatmeal gruel 180 c.c 6 oz. 

Butter 15 gm l / 2 oz. 

Lactose 15 gm y 2 oz. 

5 :30 P. M. Same as 9 :30 A.M. 

7:30P.M. Barley gruel 180 c.c 6 oz. 

One egg 

Butter 15 gm ^ oz. 

9 :30 P. M. Bouillon 180 c.c 6 oz. 

One egg 

AMBULATORY CASES OF PEPTIC ULCER 1 

Dietetic Treatment. — For cases of peptic ulcer which can- 
not take the regular course of rest and treatment in bed the 
following diet is recommended as one which will furnish suf- 
ficient nourishment and combine well with the usual excess 
of free hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice and which can 
be obtained anywhere. 

Daily Allowance: 
Milk, 56 oz. 
Cream, 13 oz. 
Eggs, 6. 
Approximate Content: Protein, 105 gr., Calories, 2400. 
Schedule of Feeding: 

8 A.M., 1 and 7 P.M. 2 glasses milk % cream. 

2 soft cooked eggs without salt. 
1 1 A.M., 4 P.M. 1 y 2 glasses milk. 

1 Dr. H. S. Carter. "Diet Lists of the Presbyterian Hospital." New York City. 
W. B. Saunders Co.. Philadelphia, Pa. 



ULCER OF THE STOMACH 463 

Before breakfast 4 gm. of bismuth subnitrate is given in 
an ounce of water. One-half hour after the three principal 
meals 2 to 4 grams of the following powder : Equal parts 
of bismuth, soda bicarbonate and calcined magnesia is given 
in four ounces (120 c.c.) water. The magnesia may be re- 
duced and an equal amount of soda added if the bowels are 
made too active by the magnesia. One-half hour after the 
11 A.M. and 4 P.M. feedings one teaspoon of soda is given 
in Yz glass water. At night after the seven o'clock feeding 
the magnesia mixture is given at 7 45 and a teaspoon of soda 
at 8:45 P.M. and 9:45 P.M. each in y 2 glass water. If pos- 
sible it is well for the patient to empty his stomach by tube 
at 10:30. 

Continue this treatment for two weeks or longer in severe 
cases, then add well cooked cereals, custards, gruels, cream 
soups, soft toast. 

Good results have been obtained from this diet, although 
it is not advised if patient can take the regular treatment. 

carter's gastric tolerance diet 1 

USED IN GASES OF PERSISTENT VOMITING 

Chloroform water (strictly fresh) " 1 dram 4 c.c. 

Peptonized milk (5 min. later) y 2 oz. 15 c.c. 

Repeat once every hour for four doses. 
If not vomiting advance to 

Chloroform water 1 dram 4 c.c. 

Peptonized milk (5 min. later) 1 oz. 30 c.c. 

Repeat once every hour for four doses. 
If not vomiting advance to 

Peptonized milk alone 1 oz. 30 c.c. 

Repeat once every hour for four doses. 
If still not vomiting advance to 

Peptonized milk 2 oz. 60 c.c. 

Repeat once every hour for four doses. 

Advance then at discretion of doctor or nurse to more peptonized 

milk, full fluid or soft diet. 

GASTRIC TEST MEALS 

Ewald : On early morning fasting stomach give : 

White bread (one roll) 40 gm. ( V/ 3 oz.) 

*Dr. H. S. Carter, "Diet Lists of the Presbyterian Hospital," New York City. 
W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, Pa 



464 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

Clear tea or water 400 c.c. ( 6 oz.) 

No butter, no sugar or milk. 
Express 1 hour later. 

Leube: Clear beef soup 400 c.c. (13^ oz.) 

Beefsteak 200 gm. ( 6 2 / 3 oz.) 

Bread 50 gm. ( \ 2 / 3 oz.) 

Water 200 c.c. ( 6 2 / 3 oz.) 

Express 3 to 4 hours later. 

Riegel : 1 bowl mutton broth 200 c.c. ( 6 2 / 3 oz.) 

Beefsteak 200 gm. ( 6 2 / 3 oz.) 

Mashed potato 50 gm. ( \ 2 / 3 oz.) 

1 roll or piece of bread. 

1 glass water. 

Express 3 to 4 hours later. 

SERIAL TEST MEAL 

'The Ewald meal may be used or one pint of gruel made 
of strained oatmeal or other cereal just thin enough to be 
aspirated through the small tube ordinarily used. A sample 
of gastric contents is aspirated and tested chemically at J/2, 
1, iy 2 , 2 and 2y 2 hours after taking meal." 1 

Purpose of Tests. — These test meals are given in order 
to ascertain the chemical and mechanical reaction of the 
stomach to the food. The patient is asked to eat the ordinary 
evening meal on the day previous to the test including in it 
something like spinach, prunes or raisins. These can be 
recognized the following morning if there is any retention 
of food. Before giving the tests the stomach contents are ex- 
pressed through tube and examined. The acid reaction of 
the stomach is best obtained by the meals including meat. 
Also the Ewald or Riegel diets are better to test the motor 
efficiency of the stomach. 

GASTRIC TEST MEALS 
St. Luke's Hospital, New York City 

Breakfast : 60 grams bread or bread roll with 350 c.c. water. 
Extract one hour after beginning of meal. 

Dinner: 1 baked or boiled potato. 
1 helping of peas or corn. 

>Dr. H. S. Carter, "Diet Lists of the Presbyterian Hospital," New York City. 
W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, Pa 



ULCER OF THE STOMACH 



465 



1 slice of bread and butter. 

1 lamb chop. 

3 stewed prunes. 

Water ad lib. 

Extract 6 hours after meals. If no return, lavage. 



janeway's convalescent gastric diet NO. I 1 

Breakfast : Boiled milk with cocoa or coffee. 
Any cereal, strained, with cream. 
Soft toast, buttered. 

11 A. M. Glass of milk. 

Dinner : Puree of potatoes, peas, or beans with toast soaked in it 

or boiled rice, with milk or cream. 
Junket or custard, or jelly or tapioca pudding. 

4 P. M. Glass of milk with beaten egg in it. 

Supper: 2 soft-boiled eggs. 

Soft toast. 
Glass of milk. 



9:30 P.M. Glass of milk, with beaten egg in it. 



janeway's convalescent gastric diet NO. II 1 

Breakfast : Boiled milk, with a little coffee or cocoa. 
Any cereal, strained, with cream. 
Dry toast, buttered. 
One egg. 

11 A.M. Glass of malted milk. 

Lunch : 2 soft-boiled or scrambled eggs, or fresh boiled fish in 

place of eggs. 

A little broiled bacon (eating the fat and not the lean). 
Toast and milk. 

Dinner: Puree of potatoes, rice, barley, peas, asparagus, celery, 

or beans. 
Buttered toast. 

Rare beafsteak broiled, or lamb chop broiled, roast beef 
or lamb. 

Roast or broiled chicken or minced chicken, with well- 
cooked rice or a well-baked potato with butter. 
Junket or custard, jelly or tapioca pudding. 

10:30 P.M. Glass of milk with lime-water. 

/Dr. T. C Janeway, "Diet Lists of the Presbyterian Hospital," New York 
City. W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, Pa. 



466 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 
STOMACH. 

1. Enumerate some of the causes of "indigestion." 

2. What type of diet should be given when there is an over-acid 
condition of the stomach? Why? 

3. What foods should be avoided? 

4. Outline a day's dietary for this condition. 

5. What type of diet should be given in a condition of subacidity? 

6. Outline the principle of the diet in chronic gastritis. What type 
of food should be given and how should meals be arranged? 
What foods should be avoided? 

7. What accompanying condition should be watched for? 

8. What are some contributing causes of acute gastritis? 

9. Outline the dietetic treatment of this disorder. 

10. Give the general procedure in the treatment of gastric ulcer. 

11. When should feeding by rectum be resorted to and how is this 
done? 

12. How may thirst be allayed? 

13. What is the principle of the Lenhartz diet? 

14. What is the especial value of Von Leube's diet for gastric 
ulcer? 

15. What is the underlying principle of Sippy's treatment for peptic 
ulcer ? 

16. Outline the duodenal feeding in peptic ulcer as administered by 
Einhorn. 

17. What is the purpose of gastric test meal? 






CHAPTER XX 

DIET IN INTESTINAL DISEASES AND FOOD 
POISONING 1 

Intestinal disorders while due to a variety of causes may 
in many cases be controlled by dietary treatment whether 
the disturbance is due to incomplete digestive processes or 
to bacterial invasion of the intestine. A properly regulated 
diet may successfully combat either cause. Either constipa- 
tion or some degree of diarrhea usually accompanies these 
disorders, and when present determines in large measure 
the type of diet to be selected. The roughage diet consisting 
principally of coarse foods, fruits and vegetables, should be 
used when constipation is to be counteracted, while any de- 
gree of diarrhea would call for a non-roughage diet consist- 
ing of all easily digested, non-irritating foods, which leave 
little or no residue. The introduction of counteracting bac- 
teria by means of diet is also a successful means of treatment. 

Acute Enteritis 

Enteritis is usually accompanied by more or less severe 
diarrhea and is due to a variety of causes, among which may 
be indulgence in distinctly irritating foods, unsanitary con- 
ditions or the introduction of certain poisonous substances 
into the intestine. Complete abstinence from food for one 
or two days is usually recommended. When acute symptoms 
have passed, soup and gruels made of barley, rice or oat- 
meal may be given. These may often be made with milk. 
Toasted bread, crackers and soft-cooked tgg may be added 
gradually and if symptoms do not return, a little easily di- 

1 Arranged under the supervision of Dr. B. Franklin Stahl, Clinical Professor 
of Medicine, Women's Medical College of Pennsylvania. Visiting Physician to 
che St. Agnes and the Philadelphia General Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa. 

467 



468 INTESTINAL DISEASES 

gested meat, as scraped beef balls or lamb chop, with bread 
and butter. When diarrhea has entirely disappeared baked 
or mashed potato may be given. Other vegetables should be 
added very carefully and at first in very small portions. 
Fruits, because of their natural laxative quality, should be 
avoided for a still longer time. 

Chronic Enteritis 

This disorder may be characterized by constipation, 
diarrhea, or alternating attacks of each. The dietetic treat- 
ment depends upon the nature of the case. The meals should 
be given regularly and good results are often obtained 
by giving food frequently and in small portions. Speedy 
cures are seldom effected and the treatment requires much 
patience. The test diet may be used to determine if possible 
if there is any particular fault in digestion. The following 
Schmidt's Intestinal Test Diet is frequently used: 

Schmidt's intestinal test diet 

For 2234 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 102 gm. 
{2> l / 3 oz.) ; fat, 111 gm. (4 oz.) ; carbohydrate, 191 gm. (6>3 oz.). 

Total allowance per day: 

Milk 1.5 liters (iy 2 qt.) 

Zwieback 100 gm. (3^ oz.) 

Eggs 2 

Butter 50 gm. ( l 2 / 3 oz.) 

Beef 125 gm. (4 oz.) 

Potatoes 190 gm. (6 l / 3 oz.) 

Oatmeal (gruel) ." 80 gm. (2^oz.) 

Schedule of Feeding: 

Breakfast : 

Milk, 0.5 liter (16 oz.) or if milk does not agree, 0.5 liter (16 oz.) 
cocoa, prepared from 20 gm. ( 2 / 3 oz.) cocoa powder, 10 gm. 
\Vz oz.) sugar, 400 c.c. (13 oz.) water, and 100 c.c. (3 2 / 3 oz.) 
milk. 

10:30 A.M.: 

Oatmeal gruel, 0.5 liter (16 oz.), made from 40 gm. (\ l / 3 oz.) 
oatmeal, 10 gm. {Y 3 oz.) butter, 200 c.c. (6 l / 2 oz.) milk, 300 c.c. 
(10 oz.) water, 1 egg, strained. 



ENTERITIS 469 

Lunch : 

Chopped beef (raw weight), 125 gm. (4 oz.), broiled rare so that 
the interior will still remain raw, served with 20 gm. ( 2 /z oz.) of 
butter. Potato broth, 250 gm. (8 oz.), made of 190 gm. (6 l / 3 oz.) 
mashed potatoes, 100 c.c. (3 l A oz.) milk, and 10 gm. ( l A oz.) 
butter. 

3 :30 P.M. : 

Same as breakfast. 
Supper : 

Same as 10:30. 
Quantity of food may be cut down to 2088 calories for 
patients (especially women) who cannot take the above 
amount. 

INTESTINAL TEST DIET, 1 NO. II 
St. Luke's Hospital, New York City 

Two to three days. Before beginning diet give capsule 
containing 0.5 g. carmine and save for examination stools 
voided after the red color has appeared. 

For Approximately 2300 Calories a Day: 

Breakfast: 

Large helping oatmeal with milk and sugar 

One poached or boiled egg. 

Two slices toast with butter. 

One glass milk, or one cup of cocoa made with milk and one 

teaspoonful of sugar. 

Dinner : 

One cup clear soup or broth. 

34 lb. beefsteak (underdone), or two lamb chops. 

One large helping (6 oz.) mashed or baked potato with butter. 

One slice white bread and butter. 

One glass milk. 

One saucer junket, custard, jelly or farina. 

Supper : 

One glass milk. 

Two soft boiled eggs or plain omelet. 

Two slices toast with butter. 

Bedtime: 

One glass milk with one Uneeda cracker or two Educator 
crackers. 

*"St. Luke's Dietary," St. Luke's Hospital, New York City. 



470 INTESTINAL -DISEASES 

When the efficiency of the digestive enzymes has been 
tested it is then possible to arrange a diet to suit the indi- 
vidual case. Examination of the stools to discover any un- 
digested material should be carefully made as this may lead 
to changes in the kind of food given. As these cases may 
extend over many months the diet should be adjusted to 
supply the body need in calories, nitrogen and mineral con- 
stituents. It is desirable to increase rather than decrease 
weight. 

Kind of Food to Use. — In cases of diarrhea a non-rough- 
age diet should be strictly adhered to, avoiding all foods that 
would be irritating to the intestines or that would stimulate 
peristalsis. In cases attended with constipation a more lib- 
eral diet may be used including fruits, green vegetables and 
fats, but still avoiding very coarse foods and those known 
to cause digestive disturbances such as sausage, lobster, cab- 
bage and cucumber. 

Diarrhea 

Type of Diet. — Non-Roughage. Dietetic treatment will 
depend somewhat upon the type of the disorder, as the 
trouble may result from gastric indigestion, from ineffi- 
ciency of the pancreatic enzymes, from some peculiarity of 
nerve condition or from the toxic effect of a food substance. 

Diarrhea often results from a lack of acid in the gastric 
juice, although occasionally an over-acid condition may cause 
the same trouble, and it sometimes occurs when the pan- 
creatic lipase is inadequate for complete fat digestion. If 
the cause can be ascertained dietetic treatment in these cases 
would naturally be a restriction or regulation of food to 
suit the individual need. 

Kind of Foods to Use. — Acute conditions, whatever may 
be the cause, call for a day or two without food followed by 
a day or two of liquid diet with cereal gruels and tea with dry 
toast. Boiled milk may sometimes be given although milk is 
usually excluded. The diet for several days after acute 



DIARRHEA 471 

symptoms have passed should include only non-irritating 
foods. 

If the condition becomes chronic a carefully chosen diet 
should be continued as long as the condition lasts. 

The foods selected should conform to the four following 
rules : x 

1. Non-stimulating and non-irritating. 

2. Easily digested, leaving little residue. 

3. Not likely to ferment. 

4. As astrigent as possible. 

Diet in Chronic Diarrhea: 

Kinds of Food to Use: 

Shell Fish Soft part of raw oysters. 

Soups Clear soups. 

Fish Any soft, white-fleshed, non-oily variety. 

Meat Beef, lamb without gristle, chicken, guinea hen. 

Cereals Farina, cream of wheat, grapenuts, flaked rice, puffed 

wheat or rice, well-boiled rice. 

Gruels Vermicelli. 

Bread Stale bread, toast, zwieback, toasted crackers. 

Cheese Ripe American, Canadian, cream or cottage, pine- 
apple. 

Desserts Gelatin desserts made with little sugar, farina pudding, 

blanc-mange or almost any cereal pudding, simple 
cake at times, such as sponge cake. 

Drinks Water, tea, black coffee, cocoa, claret, dry sherry, 

Burgundy, whiskey and water or brandy and water. 

Foods to Avoid: 

Fish Tough or oily fish, clams, etc. 

Meat Pork, veal, ham, duck, goose. 

Vegetables Green vegetables, salads. 

Bread Hot breads. 

Fruits Fresh or stewed fruits. 

Desserts Pies and sweets of all kinds. 

Miscellaneous. . Condiments, pickles, olives. 

Liquids Sweet wines. Milk is usually avoided. If prescribed, 

should be boiled or skimmed. 

a Dr. H. S. Carter, "Diet Lists of the Presbyterian Hospital," New York City 
W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, Pa. 



472 INTESTINAL DISEASES 

Foods Allowable in Certain Cases: 
Malted milk may often be used on cereals rather than fresh milk. 
Kumyss, zoolak. 
Fresh milk, boiled. 
Turkey. 
Bacon (crisp). 
Baked white potatoes. 

Eggs Boiled, baked, poached, omelet, scrambled. 

Vegetables Baked Hubbard squash, well-stewed celery, creamed 

spinach, small boiled onions. Boiled peas or lima 

beans put through a strainer. 









DIARRHEA 



473 



Food Combinations and Menus 

(XON-ROUGHAGE DIETS ) 

CHRONIC DIARRHEA DIET 

FIRST DAY 

For J 800 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 60 gm. ; fat, 
75 gm. ; carbohydrate, 222 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



MEASURE 



OUNCES 



CAL- 
ORIES 



Breakfast : 
7 :30 A. M. 

9:30 A. M. 



Luncheon : 
12 :30 P. M 



3:30 P. 
Dinner 



M. 



6:30 P. M. 



9:3C P. M. 



Cream of Wheat 

Butter 

Toast 

Cocoa (with 

water) 

2 tsp. sugar 

Toast 

Butter 

Broth with 

Macaroni 

Toasted Crackers 
Scraped beef . . . 
Stale white bread 

Butter 

Lemon Jelly . . . 
Custard Sauce . . 

Buttermilk 

Baked halibut . . 

Carrots (mashed) 
French roll 

(stale) 

Butter 

Rice Pudding . . . 
Vanilla Sauce 
(cornstarch) . 

Tea (very 

weak) 

Sugar 

Toast 

Butter 




100 
100 
100 

55 

50 
50 

75 
100 

75 
100 
100 
100 
100 

70 

75 

50 

100 

50 

115 

100 



35 
50 
50 

1800 



474 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 



CHRONIC DIARRHEA DIET 
SECOND DAY 



For 2000 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 67 gm. ; fat, 
75 gm. ; carbohydrate, 265 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



MEASURE 



Breakfast : 
7 :30 A. M. 



9:30 A. M. 



Luncheon : 
12:30 P. M 



3:30 P. M. 

Dinner : 
6:30 P. M. 



9:30 P. M. 



Hominy grits 

Butter 

Toast 

Lamb chop (tender 
eye) 

Tea 

Sugar 

Zwieback 

Butter 

Lentil Soup 

Toasted crackers 
Chicken (minced) 
and 

Rice 

French roll (stale) 

Butter 

Snow Pudding . . . 

Kuymss 

Poached egg 

Puree of lima bean 
White bread (stale) 

Butter 

Tapioca-cornmeal 

pudding 

Lemon sauce 

Hot malted milk 

(made with 

water) 

Toast 

Butter 



% cup 

1 tbsp. 

2 slices 

1 chop 
2"x2"xH' 

1 cup 

2 tsp. 

3 pieces 

y 2 tbsp. 

1 cup 
2 
Va cup 

H cup 

1 

y 2 tbsp. 

y 3 cup 

y A cup 

i ^gg 

H cup 
1 slice 
y 2 tbsp. 



3 tbsp. 
2 tbsp. 



1 cup 

2 slices 
y 2 tbsp. 



6.8 

0.5 
2.6 

1.6 



8.0 
0.3 
0.8 
0.3 

9.0 
0.5 
0.9 

3.4 
1.3 
0.3 
2.2 

6.8 

2.5 
2.9 
1.3 

0.3 

2.7 
1.5 



8.0 
2.6 
0.3 



DIARRHEA 



475 



CHRONIC DIARRHEA DIET 
THIRD DAY, NO. I 

For 1650 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 63 gm. ; fat, 
69 gm. ; carbohydrate, 195 gm. 




Breakfast : Farina 

7 :30 A. M. Butter 

Toast 

Poached egg 

10 :30 A. M. Cocoa (with water) 

Toast 

Butter 

Luncheon : Broth with rice . . . 
12:30 P. M. Toasted Crackers 
Baked Cod 

Baked Hubbard 
Squash 

White bread 

(stale) 

Butter 

Coffee Jelly 

Custard Sauce . . . 



3 :30 P. M. 



Tea 

Sugar . . . 
Zwieback 
Butter . . 



Dinner : 
6 :30 P. 



M. 



9:30 P. M. 



Minced chicken. . . . 
Chopped spinach . . 

Toast 

Butter 

Tapioca Pudding . . 

Hot peppermint tea 
Sugar 



y cup 

1 tbsp. 

2 slices 
1 egg 

1 cup 
1 slice 

y tbsp. 

1 cup 
2 

1 piece 
3"x2^"xl 

J A cup 

2 slices 
y 2 tbsp. 
H cup 
% cup 

1 cup 

2 tsp. 
1 J A pieces 

y 2 tbsp. 

y cup 
y cup 

2 slices 
1 tbsp. 
•% cup 

1 cup 

2 tsp. 





6.0 


100 




0.5 


100 




2.6 


100 




2.5 


70 




8.0 


55 




1.3 


50 




0.25 


50 




6.0 


75 




0.5 


50 


tf 


4.8 


100 




4.0 


55 




2.6 


100 




0.25 


50 




4.5 


50 




1.1 


50 




8.0 






0.3 


35 




1.3 


50 




0.3 


50 




0.9 


100 




4.3 


20 




2.6 


100 




0.5 


100 




2.8 


100 




8.0 






0.3 


35 
1645 



4/6 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 



CHRONIC DIARRHEA DIET 
THIRD DAY, NO. II 



For 2195 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 75 gm. ; fat, 
100 gm. ; carbohydrate, 250 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



MEASURE 



OUNCES 



CAL- 
ORIES 



Breakfast : Farina 

7 :30 A. M. Butter 

Toast 

Poached egg 

10 :30 A. M. Cocoa (with water) 

Toast 

Butter 

Luncheon : Broth with rice 

12:30 P. M. Toasted Crackers . 
Cod (baked) 

Baked Hubbard 
Squash 

White Bread 

(stale) 

Butter 

Coffee Jelly 

Custard Sauce . . . 



3 :30 P. M. 



Dinner : 
6:30 P. 



M. 



9 :30 P. M. 



Tea 

Sugar 

Zwieback 

Butter 

Minced chicken 

Chopped spinach . . 

Toast 

Butter 

Tapioca Pudding . 

Hot peppermint tea, 

Sugar 

Toast 

Butter 



Y3 cup 

1 tbsp. 

2 slices 
1 egg 

1 cup 

2 slices 
1 tbsp. 

1 cup 
4 

1 piece 
3"x2>Txl" 

Vi cup 



2 slices 
1 tbsp. 

cup 

cup 



cup 
tsp. 
pieces 
tbsp. 



/ 8 cup 

'2 CUp 



•2- 



2 slices 

1 tbsp. 

cup 



1 cup 

2 tsp. 

2 slices 

1 tbsp. 



6.0 
0.5 
2.6 
2.5 

8.0 
2.6 
0.5 

6.0 
0.9 
4.8 



4.0 

2.6 
0.5 
4.5 

2.2 

8.0 
0.3 
2.6 
0.3 

1.4 

4.3 
2.6 
0.5 
2.8 

8.0 
0.3 
2.6 

0.5 



100 

100 

100 

70 

55 
100 
100 

75 
100 
100 



55 

100 

100 

50 

100 



35 

100 

50 

150 
20 
100 
100 
100 

'35 
100 
100 



2195 



APPENDICITIS 477 

Acute Colitis or Acute Dysentery 

Dietetic Treatment. — After suitable catharsis, food should 
be withheld for at least twenty-four hours. The first feeding 
should be liquid, consisting of whey, clear soup, or albumin 
water, after which cereal gruels may be added. A farin- 
aceous diet consisting of macaroni, boiled rice and well- 
cooked cereals, dry toast with occasionally soft-cooked egg 
and a little scraped beef, should be continued until all symp- 
toms disappear. Should the condition become chronic long 
adherence to a non-irritating diet must be the treatment. The 
food must be easily digested and such as will leave little 
residue in the intestine. The type of food recommended for 
chronic diarrhea should be used here. Some vegetables such 
as peas, beans or Hubbard squash may sometimes be added 
but should be in form of a puree. Green vegetables are 
usually best avoided. Patients differ in their ability to take 
milk. It proves a distinct laxative with some, while with 
others it has an opposite effect. Boiled milk or kumyss may 
often be used rather than raw milk. Care should be taken in 
chronic conditions that the diet furnish sufficient nourish- 
ment, as there is always danger of malnutrition. 

Appendicitis 

Dietetic Treatment. — Complete abstinence from food dur- 
ing the first few days of illness is recommended. If any 
food is given it should be liquid and in very small portions. 
Strained barley, oatmeal or rice water may be used, also 
thickened soup and very weak tea. In very severe cases or 
where there is perforation even water is not allowed. Some 
give an occasional teaspoonful of cool water if thirst is 
extreme. Nourishment may be given in an enema. 

An egg beaten up in milk or bouillon may be given after 
first severe symptoms have passed and nothing else allowed 
until fever and pain have disappeared. Then soft-cooked 
eggs, small portions of tender, easily digested meats and 
later, mashed potatoes, bread and butter and light vegetables 



478 INTESTINAL DISEASES 

may be added. Return to normal diet should be very 
gradual. 

Chronic Appendicitis is often accompanied by constipa- 
tion and can be benefited by using an anti-constipation diet. 1 
If constipation is not present the diet should be made up of 
very easily digested foods, avoiding those which are liable 
to fermentation, such as onions, cauliflower, cabbage, fresh 
breads and pies. Thorough mastication of all food is advised. 

Constipation 

Constipation is commonly due to one or more of the fol- 
lowing conditions : 
i. Faulty diet. 

2. Irregular habits of eating. 

3. Irregular habits of defecation. 

4. Lack of exercise. 

5. Chronic constitutional diseases producing a congestion 
of the abdominal organs. 

6. Mechanical obstructions in the intestines. 

The method of treatment naturally depends upon the 
conditions involved — for example, mechanical obstructions 
may demand surgical relief. 

The chief dietary causes of constipation are irregular 
habits of eating, a lack of laxative elements in the diet and 
insufficient water intake. 

Normal intestinal movements may be stimulated : 

1. Mechanically, by the presence in the intestine of more 
or less cellulose or other material not attacked by the 
digestive enzymes, or 

2. Chemically, by organic acids, such as those found in 
fruits and fruit juices. 

Fluid and soft-solid diets are typical of diets lacking in 
roughage and if constipation is to be avoided other laxative 
elements must be included. 

The taking of food or water into the empty stomach is a 

1 See anti-constipation diet, page 428. 



CONSTIPATION 479 

definite stimulus to peristalsis of the large intestine. The 
impulse to evacuate the bowels therefore is usually strong- 
est after a meal and particularly after breakfast. Irregular 
hours or the omission of breakfast is often a contributing 
factor in constipation. The drinking of a glass or two of 
water on arising in the morning when the stomach is empty 
stimulates the intestinal movement. 

Kinds of Food to Use in Diets to Correct Constipation: 

Vegetables All kinds, especially those containing large amounts 

of cellulose, such as lettuce, chard, endive, romaine, 
cabbage, celery, spinach, onions, turnips, parsnips, 
squash, peas, beans, asparagus, tomatoes, cauliflower, 
etc. 

Fruits All kinds, including apples, apricots, peaches, plums, 

pears, grapes, prunes, dates, raisins, figs and currants. 
Oranges, grapefruit and rhubarb are useful for both 
their cellulose and their organic acids. 

Cereals Whole grain cereals, such as rolled oats, petti john 

and shredded wheat, graham and whole wheat bread. 

Bran Bran is useful as a means of adding cellulose, although 

its long continued use is not recommended. One to 
two tablespoons of bran as needed may be eaten dur- 
ing each meal, moistened with kumyss, milk, tea, coffee 
or cocoa. 

Agar Agar is a form of seaweed. It is not digested in 

the human body and therefore serves as roughage. It 
is sometimes eaten in the form of flakes mixed with 
cereals and often served as agar jelly or in biscuits, 
wafers and muffins. Agar jelly can be used when 
bran would be too harsh a stimulant. 

Honey and molasses are laxative by virtue of the fact 
that they contain mineral salts. They ferment and help to 
break the fecal mass in addition to possessing a slight stimu- 
lating action on the intestinal muscles. 

Mineral oils are sometimes valuable aids in combatting 
constipation because, not being digested or absorbed, they 
act as lubricants, softening the feces and making evacuation 
less difficult. They have no stimulating effect on the in- 
testines. They do not agree with all persons and hence must 
be prescribed with caution. 



480 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 



Food Combinations and Menus 1 
(roughage diets) 

CONSTIPATION DIET NO. I 

For 2023 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 62.19 gm.; 
fat, 119.40 gm. ; carbohydrate, 235.27 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



V) 


£ 


w 






c a 


p 


« 


o 


C 



On rising 
Breakfast : 
7 :30 A. M. 



Dinner : 
12:30 A. 



M. 



Supper : 
6:30 P. M. 



Before 
Retiring 



Water 2 glasses 



Orange 

Oatmeal 

Whole Wheat Bread 

Toast' 

Egg 

Butter 

Sugar 

Cream 

Coffee 



Tomato Soup 
Roast Beef . . 



Baked Potato 

String Beans 

Bran Bread 

Butter 

Lettuce and French 

Dressing 

Lemon Jelly 

Whipped Cream . . . 



Baked Beans 

Graham Bread . . . 

Butter 

Baked Apple and 
Cream 



Prunes 



J A cup 

2 slices 
1 

1 tbsp. 

2 tbsp. 
% cup 



Y2 cup 

2 slices 
5"x2 I 4"xJ4" 
1 medium 

Vz cup 
1 slice 
1 tbsp. 

1 serving 
H cup 

y 2 tbsp. 

Vz cup 

2 slices 
1 tbsp. 

1 large apple 
4 medium 



9.50 
2.00 

1.50 
2.00 
.50 
1.00 
1.80 



3.75 
5.20 

4.00 

2.00 
.75 
.50 

1.20 

3.00 

.25 

5.40 

1.50 

.50 

4.8 
1.4 



1.61 
2.10 

3.60 

7.00 

.13 

".59 



1.00 
23.00 

2.02 

1.30 

1.80 

.13 

.25 

1.69 

.15 

10.50 

3.60 

.13 



J Fcr other constipation diets note "constipation diets' 
diets," page 428. 



and "anti-constipation. 



CONSTIPATION 

CONSTIPATION DIET NO. II 



481 



For 2211 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 66.38 gm. ; 
fat, 81.56 gm. ; carbohydrate, 312.31 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



o a 



On rising 

Breakfast : 
7.30 A. M. 



Dinner : 

12 :30 P. M. 



Supper : 
6:30 P. 



M. 



Before 
Retiring : 



Water 

Grapefruit 
Shredded Wheat 

Bacon , 

Whole Wheat 
Bread Toast 

Butter 

Sugar 

Cream 

Split Pea Soup 
Halibut Steak . 

Baked Potato . . 
Fresh Tomatoes 
Bran Bread . . . 

Butter 

Cabbage Salad 
Rhubarb Pie .. 



Asparagus on Toast 

Steamed Rice 

Graham Bread .... 

Butter 

Milk 

Sliced Orange 

and Sugar 

Apple 



glasses 



% 



1 

2 small slices 

2 slices 

1 tbsp. 

2 tbsp. 
34 cup 

% cup 
V/2 piece 
3"x2K"xl" 
1 medium 
1 large 
1 slice 
1 tbsp. 

Vz cup 
Section 3}£" at 
circum. 



8 stalks & Y A 

cup white sauce 

1 

2 

1 tbsp. 

1 glass 



cup 
slices 



l / A tbsp. 
1 large 



7.50 
.97 

.57 

1.50 

.50 
1.00 
1.80 

6.00 
4.50 

4.00 

7.75 

.75 

.50 

1.40 

3.40 



6.90 
5.33 
1.50 

.50 
5.10 
9.50 

.25 

7.49 



.86 
3.51 
3.25 

3.60 



6.50 
30.50 

2.02 

2.00 

1.80 

.13 

.75 

2.50 



5.00 
2.50 
3.60 
.13 
4.76 
1.61 



.64 



50 
100 
100 

100 



.13 100 
100 
.59 100 



100 
150 

75 
50 
50 
100 
50 

200 



150 
127 
100 
100 
100 
100 
25 

100 
2217 



482 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 



CONSTIPATION DIET NO. Ill 

For 2407 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 62.96 gm. 
fat, 127.39 gm. ; carbohydrate, 389.00 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



a 



On rising 
Breakfast : 
7 :30 A. M. 



Dinner : 
12:30 P. M. 



Supper : 
6:30 P. M. 



Before 
Retiring 






Water 2 glasses 



Stewed Prunes . . 

Wheat— flaked, 

cooked 

Whole Wheat Bread 

Toast 

Butter 

Egg 

Sugar 

Cream 

Cream of Pea Soup 
Roast Lamb 

Baked Sweet Potato 

Spinach 

Bran Bread 

Butter 

Fruit Salad (grapes, 
oranges, bananas, 
walnuts, lettuce 
and mayonnaise 
dressing) 

Date Pudding 

Lemon Sauce 



Tomatoes stuffed 
with chopped on- 
ions, ham and 
bread crumbs . . . 

Brown Bread 

Butter 

Milk 

Stewed Apricots . . . 

Figs 



4 prunes and 
juice 

2 A cup 

2 slices 

1 tbsp. 
1 

2 tbsp. 
% cup 

1 cup 
\y 2 slice 

3y 2 "x4y 2 yy 3 " 

1 medium 

y A cup 

1 slice 
1 tbsp. 



y 2 cup^ 

slice 3" diam. 
y 2 " thick 
1 tbsp. 



2 tomatoes 

holding y 2 cup 

2 slices 

1 tbsp. 

1 glass 

y 2 cup 

1 large 



5.60 

6.00 

1.50 
.50 
2 00 
1.00 
1.80 

9.00 
2.80 

6.00 

6.40 

.75 

.50 



3.80 
1.10 

.75 



8.00 

1.50 

.50 

5.10 

5.40 

.50 



1.00 

3.25 

3.60 

.13 

7.00 

'.59 

4.25 
15.37 

3.00 

2.72 

1.80 

.13 



2.25 
1.75 



6.50 

3.60 

.13 

4.76 

2.00 

.61 



AUTO-INTOXICATION 



483 



Breakfast 



FULL ROUGHAGE DIETS 

Luncheon 



Dinner 



Stewed prunes 
Oatmeal, cream 
Bran muffins, honey 
Eggs 
Coffee 


Creamed chipped beef 
Baked potatoes 
(skins eaten) 
Vegetable salad 
Canned pears 
Wafers 


Roast beef 
Mashed potatoes 
Boiled onions 
Lettuce salad 
Sherbet, cake 


Oranges 

Wheatena with bran 
Graham toast, marma- 
lade 
Bacon 
Coffee 


Cream of pea soup, 

crackers 
Fruit salad 
Date muffins 
Tea 


Steak 

Baked potatoes 
(skins eaten) 
Escalloped cabbage 
Sliced tomatoes 
Date pudding 


Grapefruit 

Shredded wheat 

Rolls 

Eggs 

Coffee 


Baked beans 
Brown bread 
Cabbage slaw 
Canned peaches 


Baked ham 
Mashed potatoes 
Spinach 
Baked apples 

(skins eaten) 

cream 
Oatmeal cookies 



Intestinal Auto-Intoxication 

Intestinal Aato-Intoxication. — Intestinal auto-intoxication 
or putrefaction is the result of bacterial action on protein, 
chiefly on the proteins of meat and fish. The products 
formed, among which are indol, phenol, cresol and skatol, 
are believed to be toxic if absorbed into the blood. 

The cure for this condition is largely a matter of diet. 
General rules for the diet in cases of intestinal auto- 
intoxication are as follows : 

1. Exclude all animal protein except milk in its various 
forms. Eggs are sometimes allowed in small amounts. 

2. Limit the total amount of protein in the diet to 40-60 
grams. 

3. Use liberal amounts of fruits and vegetables, of cereals 
and other starchy foods and of lactose. 

4. When constipation accompanies intestinal auto- 
intoxication, as it often does, the laxative elements in 
the diet must be emphasized. 



484 INTESTINAL DISEASES 

The object of such a diet is to bring about a change in the 
intestinal flora, so that fermentative rather than putrefactive 
bacteria will predominate. This may be accomplished (1) 
by cutting to a minimum the protein of the diet, and (2) by 
favoring the growth of fermentative organisms by means of 
feeding carbohydrate foods liberally. 

Recent work of Rettger and Cheplin would indicate that 
lactose is particularly valuable in effecting such a change if 
fed in large amounts (300 gms. daily). When a culture of 
Bacillus Acidophilus is given in combination with the lac- 
tose, 150 gms. daily are sufficient to bring about a speedy 
transformation of the intestinal flora. 

Kinds of Food to Use: 1 

Milk Whole, skimmed, zoolack, kumyss, buttermilk, kefir, 

clabbered milk, cream or pot cheese. 

Fruits Raw or cooked. 

Vegetables Thoroughly cooked and soft. 

All farinaceous foods such as rice, noodles, macaroni, puddings. 

Puree of vegetables and bread. 

Yolk of eggs. 

Fresh butter and cream. 

Sauerkraut is a valuable anti-putrefactive food. 

Foods to Avoid: 1 

Bouillon, meat soups, meat juices and jellies, meat extract. 

White of egg or dishes made therefrom. 

Milk, unless mixed with farinaceous food. 

High or tainted meats or those which decompose rapidly, game, rare 

or raw meats, fish, shell fish. 
Meat fats of all kinds. 

In severe* auto-intoxication absolutely no meat should be 
taken and when it is begun later, only in small progressive 
quantities, not forgetting that it should be taken with. five 
times its bulk of farinaceous food. 

a Carter, Howe and Mason, "Nutrition and Clinical Dietetics," Lea & Febiger, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 



A UTO-INTOXICA TION 485 

Food Combinations and Menus 
(high carbohydrate-low protein diet) 

INTESTINAL AUTO-INTOXICATION DIET 1 NO. I 

(IN SEVERE cases) 

7 :30 A. M. Cereal prepared with water or milk, rolls and fresh 
butter. 

10:00 A. M. Some form of gruel made with milk or water. 

12 :30 P. M. One or two yolks of eggs, raw or boiled, maccaroni, 
rice, farina with salt and fresh butter. Farinaceous 
pudding. Rolls and butter. 

3:30 P. M. The same as 10:00 A. M. 

7:00 P. M. Same variety as at 12:30 P. M. 
10:00 P. M. Infusion of chamomile, peppermint, fennel, or anise. 

Continue this diet for eight or ten days then add potatoes, 
puree or baked T Whortleberry juice or jelly. No fluids with 
meals. Later tea, coffee, cocoa, vegetables and fruits may 
be added in the order named with a little meat, first at one 
and then at two meals, watching the effect. 

INTESTINAL AUTO-INTOXICATION DIET 1 NO. II 
ASSOCIATED WITH CHRONIC CONSTIPATION OR INTESTINAL STASIS 

Early A. M. : 
One-third or one-half of grape juice with equal amount of water. 

Breakfast : 

Glass of milk or buttermilk with cereal and cream. Later on tea 
and coffee may be included. 

10 A. M. : 
One-half glass of buttermilk and slice of bread. 

Dinner or Supper : 

Cream vegetable soup made without stock or thickened with flour. 

Yolks of two or three eggs poached or scrambled ; macaroni, cream 

cheese, potatoes, rice, baked farina, green vegetables, that grow 

above ground. Glass of milk or buttermilk. Bread and fresh 
butter. Farinaceous pudding with fruit sauce or stewed figs, 
prunes, apricots, pears, cherries or peaches. 

4 P. M. : 

Cream cheese and crackers. 

barter, Howe and Mason, "Nutrition and Clinical Dietetics," Lea & Febiger, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 



486 INTESTINAL DISEASES 

At Bedtime: 

One-half to one glass of buttermilk with two or three toasted 
crackers and several dates or figs. 

This diet should be continued until there are no subjective 
symptoms or abnormal urinary findings. Small amounts of 
meat and other foods may then be gradually added, slowly 
returning to a normal dietary. The protein should, however, 
be kept at a low level for a long time. 



A UTO-INTOXICA TIOX 



487 



INTESTINAL AUTO-INTOXICATION DIET XO. Ill 

For 2012 Calorics a Day: Approximate values — protein, 48.19 gm. ; 
fat, 87.31 gm. ; carbohydrate, 258.35 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



2 

3 _■ 

- M 

a a 



Breakfast : 
7:30 A. M. 



10 :00 A. M. 

Dinner : 

12 :30 P. M. 



4:00 P. M. 



Supper : 
6:30 P. M. 



Before 
Retiring 



Orange 

Rolled Oats .. 

Bread 

Butter (fresh) 
Sugar 



y 

Cream (thin) y 



Milk 

Graham Cracker . 



Cream of Green Pea 
Soup 

Yolks of eggs 

poached 

Baked Potato 

Creamed Cauliflower 

Bread 

Butter (Fresh) ... 

Rice and Raisin 
Pudding 

Cream (thin) 

Buttermilk 

Zwieback 



cup 

slices 

tbsp. 

tbsp. 

cup 

small glass 



Macaroni 

String beans . . 

Bread 

Butter (fresh) 
Pears (canned) 



Fig 



2 A cup 

2 eggs 
1 

1 serving 

2 slices 
V/ 2 tbsp. 

% cup 
% cup 

1 small glass 

1 piece 

3y 4 »xy 2 "xiy 4 '> 

Vz cup 

3 4 cup 

2 slices 
\y 2 tbsp. 

3 halves & 
juice 



4.72 


.80 


2.00 


2.10 


1.50 


3.60 


.50 


.13 


.50 


.... 


1.80 


1.25 


5.50 


5.00 


.40 


1.12 


5.20 


4.00 


1.00 


4.25 


5.27 


2.69 


4.38 


2.37 


1.50 


3.60 


.75 


.21 


2.20 


3.00 


.90 


.62 


5.50 


4.58 


.26 


.75 


4.60 


1.37 


2.83 


1.83 


1.50 


3.60 


.75 





4.70 




.50 


.61 




48.19 



50 

50 

100 

100 

50 

100 

108 
50 



100 

100 
100 
83 
100 
150 

150 

50 

55 
33 



50 

33 

100 

150 

100 



488 INTESTINAL DISEASES 

INTESTINAL AUTO-INTOXICATION DIET NO. IV 

For 2404 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 57.46 gm. ; 
fat, 100.83 gm.; carbohyrate, 319.43 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 






Breakfast: 
7 :30 A. M. 



10:00 A. M. 

Dinner : 
12:30 P. M. 



4:00 P. M. 



Supper : 
6:30 P. M. 



Before 
Retiring : 



Baked Apple 

Hominy grits 

Bread 

Butter (fresh) 

Sugar 

Cream (thin} 

Milk 

Soda crackers 

Lentil Soup 

Baked Potato 

Creamed Peas 

Lettuce and 

Cream Cheese . . . 

Bread 

Butter (fresh) 

Boiled custard on 
Banana (very 
ripe) 

Buttermilk 

Zwieback 

Cream Toast 

Bread 

Butter (fresh) 

Stewed Peaches . . . 

Buttermilk 

Prunes 



1 (medium) 
% cup 

2 slices 
1 tbsp. 
1 tbsp. 

V2 cup 

1 small glass 

2 



V2 cup 
1 
V2 cup 

1 sm. serving 
piece 2"xl"x^" 

2 slices 
V/ 2 tbsp. 

y 3 cup 



1 small glass 
piece 3^"x^"x 

M" 



\% slice, ett 
2 slices 
'•\y A tbsp. 
24 cup 

1 small glass 
4 



3.45 
1.22 
1.50 
.50 
.50 
3.60 

5.50 

.45 



4.50 

5.27 

2.70 

.50 

.90 

1.50 

.75 

2.20 

2.75 
5.50 

.26 



4.40 

1.50 

.62 

5.20 

5.50 
1.40 



.18 
1.69 
3.60 

.13 

2.50 

5.00 
1.25 



2.12 
2.69 
4.50 

.17 
6.25 
3.60 

.21 
3.25 

.62 

4.58 

.75 



4.50 

3.60 

.19' 

.75 

4.58 

.75 

57.46 



A UTO-INTOXICA TION 



489 



INTESTINAL AUTO-INTOXICATION DIET NO. V 

For 2812 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 67:69 gm. ; 
fat, 117.68 gm. ; carbohydrate, 377.77 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



m 


£ 


w 
u 






c 


Q-, 



Breakfast : 
7:30 A. M. 



10 :00 A. M. 

Dinner : 
12:30 P. M. 



4 :00 P. M. 

Supper : 
6 :30 P. M. 



Before 
Retiring 



Prunes stewed 

Farina 

Bread 

Butter (fresh) 

Sugar 

Cream (thin) 

Milk 

Graham Crackers . . 

Cream of Celery- 
Soup 

Yolks of eggs 

poached 

Baked Potato 

Lima Beans buttered 

Bread 

Butter (fresh) 

Tapioca-cornmeal 

Pudding 

Cream (thin) 

Buttermilk 

Soda crackers 

Boiled Rice 

Asparagus on Toast 

Bread 

Butter 

Stewed Apricot's . . . 

Fig 

Zwieback 



4 and juice 

Ya cup 
2 slices 
1 tbsp. 
1 tbsp. 

Va cup 

1 glass 
2 



Ya cup 

2 
1 

H cup 
2 slices 
1 tbsp. 

4 tbsp. 
Vs cup 

1 glass 
3 



H cup 
5 stalks and 

sauce 
2 slices 
2 tbsp. 

V2 cup 

2 

1 piece 

3^"x^"xl^" 



5.60 


1.25 


6.00 


3.00 


1.50 


3.60 


.50 


.13 


.50 




1.80 


1.25 


7.65 


7.14 


.40 


2.25 


5.40 


4.12 


1.00 


4.25 


5.27 


2.69 


2.55 


6.00 


1.50 


3.60 


.50 


.13 


3.60 


5.50 


.90 


.62! 


5.50 


4.58 


.67 


1.88 


2.00 


1.12 


7.70 


5.75 


1.50 


3.60 


1.00 


.26 


5.40 


2.00 


1.00 


1.22 


.26 


.75 




67.69 



200 
100 
100 
100 
50 
100 

150 
100 



150 

100 
100 
150 
100 
100 



50 

55 
11 



50 

169 

100 
200 
200 



100 
33 



490 INTESTINAL DISEASES 

Food Poisoning 

Food poisoning may be caused in two ways . 

1. By use of food which naturally contains poison, such 
as some varieties of mushrooms. 

2. By use of food which has become infected by bacteria 
or which contains poison products resulting from bac- 
terial action. 

Milk, meat, fish, vegetables and canned goods are all sub- 
ject to this infection and the putrefactive changes that give 
rise to poisonous products. Much may be done to prevent 
this trouble by very careful selection, handling and cooking 
of food. The dietetic treatment in cases of poisoning would 
be the same as for any acute affection of the gastrointes- 
tinal canal. All of the offending substances should of course 
be removed. This may necessitate stomach lavage, the use of 
powerful cathartics and high enemas. 

Type of Diet. — Low-calory fluid diet. 

The patient should be given a very simple fluid diet at 
first, gradually increasing it to soft and then to normal diet 
as ability to retain and digest food permits. 

Dietary Precautions: 1 

1. Fresh food only should be bought from a reliable 
dealer unless the buyer is able to decide for himself 
just what is fresh. 

2. Meat that tastes "queer," oysters that are spoiled and 
meat that is bitter, strong or rancid should be ejected 
from the mouth, no matter in whose society. It can be 
gracefully done. 

3. Cooking thoroughly, broiling, roasting or boiling kills 
most of the bacteria but is usually ineffectual in re- 
moving the products of decomposition or in making 
them ineffective. Ordinary boiling does not kill all 
kinds of bacteria ; most are readily killed but some 
resist even prolonged boiling. Bacillus botulinus is 

1 Carter, Howe and Mason, "Nutrition and Clinical Dietetics," Lea & Febiger. 
Philadelphia, Pa., 1921. 



FOOD POISONING 491 

easily decomposed by heat, while bacillus paratyphi 
produces a poison which cannot be eliminated even by 
boiling for a long time. 

4. Not less than a 15 per cent, solution of salt should be 
used as brine for salting, and smoking food must be 
done very thoroughly, or in either case the bacteria 
will not be destroyed. 

5. Fish if frozen while fresh will keep almost indefinitely 
without loss of essential good qualities, palatability or 
change in sanitary characteristics. But if the fish is 
frozen after becoming infected the poisonous effects 
will be as apparent when it is thawed for cooking as 
if it had not been frozen. 

6. Food should be eaten as soon as convenient after 
cooking and should not be kept for long intervals. If 
necessary to keep food over, particularly in hot 
weather, it should be cooked again just before eating. 

7. Canned goods should never be used if the can is seen 
to have a convex top, this is always due to imperfect 
sterilization with resulting fermentation and putrefac- 
tion, the bulging being caused by the gas under pres- 
sure. These cans are called "swells" or "blows." 

8. All canned goods should be thoroughly cooked through 
before serving, to kill any possible organisms, and if 
the entire contents are not used at one meal the re- 
mainder should be kept in stone or enamel ware on 
ice and not in the can. 

If by chance it becomes necessary to prescribe a diet for 
a patient suffering from food-poisoning one should follow 
the rules laid down for the diet of the concomitant condition 
which it causes, e. g., diet for acute gastritis, gastro-enteritis, 
or enterocolitis according to which part of the intestinal 
canal is affected. It is needless to say that if any food is re- 
maining in the stomach or intestine, patients must have 
gastric lavage, quick and effectual catharsis and high colonic 
irrigations. 



492 INTESTINAL DISEASES 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 
ENTERITIS 

1. What may be the cause of acute enteritis? 

2. What type of diet should be used? Why? 

3. How may the dietetic treatment of chronic enteritis differ from 

that in acute cases? 

4. What may cause the disorder? 

5. What determines the type of diet to be used? 

6. What care should be given to the nutrition value of the diet? 

DIARRHEA 

7. What are some causes of diarrhea? 

8. How is it possible to control diarrhea by diet? 

9. What is the usual treatment in acute cases? 

10. What rules govern the selection of foods for the later treatment 

of acute cases and for all chronic cases? 

11. Give a list of foods and beverages that may be used. 

12. Is milk useful in these diets? 

CONSTIPATION 

13. What are common causes of constipation? 

14. What is the principle underlying the dietetic treatment of con- 

stipation ? 

15. Construct a menu that would be suitable for this trouble. 

16. How are agar, honey and molasses effective in counteracting 

constipation ? 

17. Why are mineral oils given? 

AUTO-INTOXICATION 

18. How may intestinal auto-intoxication be counteracted by diet? 

19. Why is lactose valuable in this treatment? 

FOOD POISONING 

20. What are some causes of food poisoning? 

21. Discuss the treatment of such cases. 

22. Cite precautions which may avoid such trouble. 






CHAPTER XXI 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LIVER 

Some abuse of the organ is usually responsible for a 
diseased condition. The liver functions in the metabolism of 
all foodstuffs and excessive amounts of any of them may 
disturb the normal working of the organ. 

The use of alcohol is probably responsible for more liver 
disorders than any other one article of diet but close second 
to this come condiments and all rich, highly spiced foods. 
All these should be entirely eliminated from the diet when 
the liver ceases to function properly. 

The following general dietary regulations apply in all 
cases of hepatic disease. Food should be given in small 
amounts, at frequent, regular intervals. It should be well 
masticated and taken slowly. Rest before and after meals 
is advisable. 

Jaundice 

Jaundice is caused by a narrowing or complete occlusion 
of the bile ducts, due to catarrh, gallstones or to some malig- 
nant growth such as cancer or tumor. The obstruction of 
the duct interferes with the flow of bile and affects the di- 
gestion and absorption of fats, so that in this condition they 
are poorly tolerated. 

In jaundice the liver loses its power to store glycogen and 
in consequence carbohydrate foods must be somewhat re- 
stricted. 

In acute catarrhal jaundice the stomach is apt to be very 
irritable. Accordingly, all foods should be fluid and should 
be given regularly in small amounts at frequent intervals. 

493 



494 



DISEASES OF THE LIVER 



Because of the disturbed liver function fats should be prac- 
tically excluded and the carbohydrates somewhat restricted, 
as stated above. For this reason we must supply protein lib- 
erally. The milk proteins are the best to use and skimmed 
milk, diluted with lime water or other alkaline water should 
make up the most of the diet. Cereals, such as rice, farina 
and other wheat products may be used. Such a diet is out- 
lined below. 

DIET IN ACUTE CATARRHAL JAUNDICE 1 

For 544.2 Calorics a Day: Approximate value — protein, 43.3 gm. ; 
fat, 5.09 gm. ; carbohydrate, 8i.3 gm. 







URE 


c/) 


S3 


w 


SCHEDULE 


OF FEEDING 


1 < 

w 





1° 

P-c 


O 
< 


7 A. M. 


Mineral Water 


1% cups 


10.0 




.... 


8 A. M. 


Skimmed milk 


1% cups 


10.0 


9.6 


104.0 




with egg white 


1 cup 


0.69 


1.8 


14.4 


10 A. M. 


Buttermilk 


1*4 cups 


10.0 


1.4 


101.0 


1 P. M. 


Beef tea 


1J4 cups 


10.0 


6.2 


29.8 




Roll 


1 


1.26 


3.22 


100.0 


4 P. M. 


Tea 


1 cup 


8.0 








Sugar 


1 tsp. 


0.14 




16.6 




Toast 


Yz slice 


0.35 


0.96 


25.0 


6 P. M. 


Skimmed milk 


1*4 cups 


10.0 


9.6 


104.0 


10 P. M. 


Mineral Water 


\Ya cups 


10.0 


43.3 


544.2 



After the acute stage is past, the diet may be increased, 
until by the end of the second week the patient is taking a 
diet of milk, highly milled cereals, mild vegetables and 
cooked fruits, tender lean meats and non-oily fish. Sugar 
and fats should be used with caution, and fried foods and 
rich desserts should be avoided altogether. Meals should 
still be small and given at frequent intervals. 

During convalescence the patient should avoid over-eating. 
Carelessness in the diet at this time may delay recovery or 
cause the condition to become chronic. 

1 Watson, "Foods and Feeding." 



JAUNDICE 



495 



CONVALESCENT DIET IN JAUNDICE, NO. I 
(LOW FAT diet) 



For 2401 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 118.14 gm. 
fat, 43.12 gm. ; carbohydrate, 312.67 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



1 v> 


£ 


w 




<-> 





£ 


s 


1 


s 



Breakfast : 
7 A. M. Pears (canned) . . . 

Hominy Grits 

Milk (skimmed) .. 
Bread (toast) 

10 A. M. Split Pea Soup . . . 
Soda Crackers 

Dinner : 
1 P. M. Cod 

Potatoes, mashed . . 
Creamed spinach . . . 

Roll 

Cup Custard 

4 P. M. Milk (skimmed) . . . 

Egg white 

Graham Cracker . . 

Supper : 
6 P. M. Cream of Asparagus 

Soup 

Toast 

Potatoes creamed . . , 
Prune Souffle 

Before 

Retiring: Milk (skimmed) .. 
Graham Cracker . . . 



3 halves 

and juice 
% cup 

\y% cup 

1 slice 
% cup 



1 serving 

Vz cup 

% cup 
1 

2 A cup 
1 large glass 

1 



1 cup 

2 slices 
% cup 
% cup 

1 large glass 



4.70 
6.80 
9.60 

.75 

6.00 
.45 



4.90 
3.10 
4.10 
1.30 
6.60 

9.60 
.98 
.20 



8.00 
1.50 
2.70 
3.60 

9.60 
.20 



.50 
2.25 
9.25 
1.80 



26.25 
1.75 

3.75 
4.00 



9.25 
1.12 



100 

100 

100 

50 



6.50 100 
1.25 50 



100 
100 
100 
100 



8.50 200 

9.25 100 

3.50 14 

L12 50 



8.50 200 

3.60 100 

2.25 100 

5.00 200 



100 
50 

2014 



496 



DISEASES OF THE LIVER 



CONVALESCENT DIET IN JAUNDICE, NO. II 
(LOW FAT diet) 

For 2203 Calorics a Day: Approximate value — protein, 101.63 gm. 
fat, 55.37 gm. ; carbohydrate, 331.28 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



C/3 


to 


w 




u 

to 


o o 


« 


o 


fc 



Breakfast : 

7 A. M. Banana 

Farina , 

Bread (toast) 

Milk (skimmed) . . , 

10 A. M. Cream of Pea Soup 
Soda Crackers 

Dinner : 
1 P. M. Chicken (roast) . . . 

Potato, mashed 

Creamed Peas 

Roll 

Rice Pudding 

Milk (skimmed) ... 
4 P. M. Milk (skimmed) ... 

Egg white 

Graham Cracker 

Supper : 

6 P. M. Creamed Toast 

Peaches with 

Boiled Custard 
Plain Sponge cake . 

Before 

Retiring: Milk (skimmed) ... 
Graham Crackers . . . 



1 

Va 

2 

1/8 

1 

3 



cup 

slices 

cup 

cup 



slice 

4"x2^"xK" 



% 



cup 
cup 

cup 

large cup 
large glass 



\Yi slice 

2 lge. halves 

2 A cup 
piece 

2"x23 / 4" x %" 



large glass 



3.50 


1.24 


6.00 


3.00 


1.50 


3.60 


9.60 


9.25 


7.80 


6.00 


.60 


1.87 


1.70 


12.75 


3.10 


1.75 


2.70 


4.50 


1.30 


4.00 


2.25 


4.00 


4.80 


4.62 


9.60 


9.25 


1.96 


7.00 


.20 


1.12 


4.40 


6.50 


7.50 


1.50 


4.40 


6.50 


.90 


1.75 


9.60 


9.25 


.40 


2.24 



100 
100 
100 
100 

150 

75 



100 

100 

100 

100 

150 

50 

100 

28 

50 



200 
100 
200 

100 



2203 



Cirrhosis of the Liver 

In cirrhosis of the liver there is destruction, to a greater 
or less extent, of the parenchymatous cells. This disease is 
very commonly the result of over-indulgence, either in 



CIRRHOSIS OF THE LIVER 497 

alcohol or food, which causes chronic irritation of the liver. 
There are, however, other causes such as syphilis, metallic 
poisoning and chronic malarial poisoning. 

The dietetic treatment will aim to relieve irritation of the 
liver and putrefaction in the intestines. Protein metabolism 
is interfered with in this condition and the kind and amount 
of protein given must be watched. 

When the disease has been diagnosed the patient is usually 
put upon a milk diet. Osier recommends the use of milk 
alone, diluted with lime water or other alkaline water, give- 
ing 2 to 3 quarts a day for from 4 to 6 weeks. Skimmed 
milk may be used where whole milk is not well tolerated. 
If ascites is present, the Karell milk cure, 1 with its smaller 
volume, is advised. 

After several weeks of the milk diet cases without ascites 
may be given a more liberal diet, though Osier recommends 
a periodic return to the milk diet. This more liberal diet will 
consist of milk, eggs, cereals, green vegetables, potatoes and 
fruits. Fats and sugar, with their tendency to undesirable 
fermentations, should be used most cautiously and all 
irritating foods must of course be eliminated. Meats and 
meat broths are also prohibited, because of the disturbed 
protein metabolism. 

Where ascites is present a dry diet is usually prescribed, 
such as the Balfour dry diet given on the following page. 

2 See page 515. 



49 8 



DISEASES OF THE LIVER 



BALFOUR S DRY DIET 

For 955 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 41 gm. ; fat, 
20.25 gm. ; carbohydrates, 130.17 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



m 


fe 


W 




U 
2 


o o 


£> 


« 


o 


Oh 



Breakfast : 

Dry Toast . . 

Tea 

Cream 

Sugar , 

Dinner : 

Lamb Chops 

Cocoa 

Dry Toast . . 
Supper : 

Dry Toast . . 

Tea 

Cream , 

Sugar 



2 large slices 

1 tea cup 

2 tsp. 

1 tsp. 

2 (lean) 
1 tea cup 

3 large slices 

3 large slices 

1 tea cup 

2 tsp. 
1 tsp. 



1.50 


4.92 


4.00 




.44 


.16 


.14 




3.20 


20.00 


4.00 


3.00 


2.25 


6.38 


2.25 


6.38 


4.00 




.44 


.16 


.14 





137 

46 
17 

200 

80 

206 

206 

46 

17 

955 



Gail-Stones 

By gall-stones we mean stones precipitated in the gall 
bladder or gall ducts. They vary in size from that of grains 
of sand to that of a walnut. They are concretions of in- 
soluble lime salts in combination with bile pigments — par- 
ticularly bilirubin. A foundation for these deposits is often 
a chalisteral stone with epithelia debris and bacteria at its 
center. 

This bacterial infection of the gall bladder results mostly 
from catarrhal condition of stomach and intestine. The 
stones are precipitated from the bile when there is stagnation 
resulting from catarrh or inflammatory stricture of the duct. 

Stones once formed are not influenced by diet so far as we 
know but dietary measures are important in preventing 
their formation in the first place or in preventing their re- 
currence after operation. For the prevention of gall-stones 
the rate of bile flow should be normal and it is important to 



GALL-STONES 



499 



avoid constipation and intestinal putrefaction which may set 
up inflammatory processes. 

The same general rules for diet will hold here as in other 
hepatic disturbances. Avoid irritating foods, such as alcohol, 
condiments and spices, rich, greasy foods and concentrated 
sweets. Do" not overtax the liver by fat or carbohydrate be- 
yond its tolerance. Give small, frequent meals. Use milk, 
fruits and vegetables liberally to keep the bowels open. 

PROPHYLACTIC OR POSTOPERATIVE DIET 
FOR GALL-STONES 

For 1991-5 Calorics a Day: Approximate values — protein, 59.1 gm. ; 
fat, 75.28 gm. ; carbohydrates, 271.8 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 




Breakfast : 
7 A. M. Pears (canned) .... 

Wheat, flaked, cooked 

Bread (toast) 

Butter (fresh) 

Cream (thin) 

Sugar 

Coffee 

10 A. M. Puffed rice 

Milk 

Cream 

Dinner : 
1 P. M. Creamed codfish .... 

Baked potato 

Spinach 

Roll 

Butter (fresh) 

Spanish cream 

4 P. M. Milk 

Graham crackers . . . 
Supper : 
6 P. M. Cream of celery soup 

Soda Biscuit 

Bread 

Butter (fresh) 

Peaches, canned 



3 halves 
and juice 

2 A cup 
2 slices 

y 2 tbsp. 

Va cup 
1 teaspoon 



% 



cup 
cup 
cup 



l A cup 

1 

Vz cup 
2 

l A tbsp. 

Vz cup 
1 large glass 
2 



cup 



1 
2 

2 slices 
l A tbsp. 
2 halves and 
juice 



4.00 


.50 


6.00 


3.25 


1.50 


3.60 


.25 


.07 


2.00 


.59 


.14 




'.50 


l'.ii 


5.10 


4.76 


1.00 


.29 


2.50 


8.00 


5.27 


2.69 


4.25 


1.87 


2.60 


8.00 


.25 


.07 


1.66 


3.00 


7.55 


7.14 


.40 


2.25 


7.20 


5.50 


.45 


1.25 


1.50 


3.60 


.25 


.07 


7.50 


1.50 



100 
100 
100 

50 
100 

17 

' 50 

100 

50 

100 
100 

22 
200 

50 

66 
150 
100 

200 

50 
100 

50 

100 
1991.5 



5oo 



DISEASES OF THE LIVER 



PROPHYLACTIC OR POSTOPERATIVE DIET 
FOR GALL-STONES 

For 2086 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 80.13 gm. 
fat, 79.0 gm. ; carbohydrate, 266.0 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 




(/} 


£ 


w 

U 


o o 


E> 


K 


o 


eu 



Dinner : 
1 P. M 



Breakfast : 

7 A. M. Apricots (stewed) . . . 

Farina 

Bread (toast) 

Butter (fresh) 

Cream (thin) 

Sugar 

Coffee 

10 A. M. Shredded wheat 

Milk 

Hamburg steak 

Baked potato 

Creamed peas 

Roll 

Butter (fresh) 

Boiled custard on 

Banana 

Milk 

Graham crackers 

Creamed eggs on toast 

Bread 

Butter (fresh) 

Apple sauce 



4 P. M. 

Supper : 
6 P. M. 



Va cup 

Va cup 

1 slice 

y 2 tbsp. 

Va cup 
1 teaspoon 



Vs cup 



2 cakes 2 l / 2 " dia- 
meter %" thick 
1 
J A cup 



tbsp. 

cup 

cup 

large glass 



1 serving 
(1 egg.etc.) 
1 slice 

y 2 tbsp. 
y 2 cup 



i 

2.90 


1.00 


6.00 


3.00 


0.75 


1.80 


0.25 


0.07 


2.00 


0.59 


0.14 




.90 


3.25 


5.10 


4.76 


4.00 


26.50 


5.27 


2.69 


2.70 


4.50 


1.30 


4.00 


0.25 


0.07 


2.20 


3.25 


2.75 


0.62 


7.55 


7.14 


.40 


2.25 


6.00 


13.50 


0.75 


1.80 


0.25 


0.07 


4.66 


0.33 



100 

100 

50 

50 

100 

17 



100 
100 



200 
100 
100 
100 

50 
100 

50 

150 
100 



300 

50 

50 

133 

2086 



GALL-STONES 



50i 



PROPHYLACTIC OR POSTOPERATIVE DIET 
FOR GALL-STONES 



For 2186 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 6675 gm. 
fat, 75.57 gm. ; carbohydrate, 333.8 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



o o 



Breakfast 
7 A. M. 



10 P. M. 

Dinner : 
1 P. M. 



4 P. M. 

Supper : 
6 P. M. 



Banana 

Farina 

Bread (toast) 
Butter (fresh) 
Cream (thin) 

Sugar 

Coffee 

Rice, boiled . . . 

Milk 

Cream 



Sirloin steak 
Potatoes, mashed 
String beans 

Roll 

Butter (fresh) .. 
Tapioca cream . . 

Milk 

Graham crackers 



Asparagus on toast 

Bread 

Butter (fresh) ... 
Prunes (stewed) . 



1 

H cup 
2 slices 

l / 2 tbsp. 

M cup 
1 teaspoon 



Yz cup 
H cup 

y& cup 

small serving 
H cup 

y 2 cup 
1 
y 2 tbsp. 

% cup 

1 large glass 

2 



8 stalks on 

toast 
2 slices 

y 2 tbsp. _ 

6 and juice 



3.50 
6.00 
1.50 

.52 
2.00 

.14 

1.01 
5.10 
1.00 



3.17 
4.60 
2.00 
1.30 
.25 
4.20 

7.55 
.40 



6.90 
1.50 

.25 
8.40 



1.24 

3.00 

3.60 

.07 

.59 



2.28 

4.76 

.29 



18.10 
2.63 
1.30 
4.00 
.07 
4.50 

7.14 
2.25 



5.00 

3.60 

.07 

1.87 



10O 
100 
100 

50 
100 

17 



100 

100 

50 



160 
150 

23 
100 

50 
150 

150 
100 



150 

100 

50 

300 

2186 



502 DISEASES OF THE LIVER 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 

LIVER 

1. State probable causes of liver disturbances. 

2. Give dietary rules which should govern the treatment of all cases. 

3. What causes jaundice and does its occurrence effect body pro- 



cesses 



4. What food restriction is advised? 

5. What foods may be given? 

6. What is the diet recommended for cirrhosis of the liver? 

7. When is a dry diet advised? 

8. What is meant by a dry diet? 

9. Can gall-stones be benefited by dietary treatment? 
10. Give type of diet. 



CHAPTER XXII 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE GENITO-URINARY 
ORGANS 1 

Nephritis 

Dietetic Treatment. — Nephritis, either acute or chronic, is 
characterized by a disturbance of the excretory powers of 
the kidneys. Under normal conditions water, the nitrogenous 
products of protein metabolism, and certain inorganic salts, 
especially sodium chloride, are perfectly eliminated. In the 
diseased condition one or all of these products are partially 
retained. The dietetic treatment of nephritis aims to min- 
imize the work of the kidneys by restricting the products 
they have difficulty in eliminating. 

Acute Nephritis. 

Type of Diet. — The diet in acute cases must always be 
very limited. Sometimes no food is allowed for a period of 
twenty- four hours. Water may be given in generous amounts 
if it is properly eliminated. Practically all authorities recom- 
mend a milk diet and diets of low nitrogen content, the 
Karell diet 2 being very generally used. The lacto-farinaceous 
diet and lacto-vegetarian diets are used when other foods 
may be added. 

The exact type of diet must be determined for individual 
cases and depends upon extent of water, salt and nitrogen 
retention. Salt and water retention are usually found to- 
gether. The Karell diet 2 may be used or if the case does not 

/Through the kindness of Dr. Herbert S. Carter, "Diet in Diseases of the 
Genito-Urinary System" was rewritten under his supervision largely from his 
books, "Presbyterian Diet Lists," published by W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, 
Pa., and from, "Nutrition and Clinical Dietetics," published by Lea & Febiger, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 

2 The Karell Diet, see page 515. 

503 



504 GENITO-URINARY ORGANS 

demand an exclusive milk diet one of the salt-poor diets 1 is 
recommended. Where there is evidence of renal acidosis a 
lacto-vegetarian diet is of benefit because the base-forming 
elements of the vegetables and fruits tend to counteract the 
excessive acid content of the urine. All irritating foods 
should be avoided, such as meat extractives, meat soups and 
vegetables containing irritating oils, such as celery, garlic 
and onion. Alcohol in all forms is forbidden. 

Albuminuria. 

Dietetic Treatment 2 . — When the albumin in the urine is a 
symptom of actual renal irritation, chemical or bacterial, it 
is necessary to treat the causal conditions by removal of pois- 
onous materials from the food and to furnish such a dietary 
that no unnecessary strain shall be put upon the renal 
epithelium. For this purpose a lacto-farinaceous diet is best, 
milk alone being used for the more serious cases, and far- 
inaceous additions being made for milder grades. When the 
albuminuria is a part of a general acute or chronic infection 
the diet must conform largely to the particular infection at 
fault, but in general the lacto-farinaceous diet fills the re- 
quirements perfectly and must be kept up as long as signs of 
renal irritation persist. 

Chronic Nephritis 

Dietetic Treatment: 2 

1. As most cases of chronic nephritis have distinct limita- 
tions in regard to their powers of excreting nitrogen, 
salts and water, it is necessary for their most intelligent 
dietary treatment that these limitations be determined, 
at least approximately. 

2. Since in these cases diet is a matter of months or years, 
it is necessary to make sure that any diet chosen is 
palatable, supplies the full requirement of protein, fat, 
carbohydrate, salts, vitamines and calories adjusted to 

1 Salt-Poor Diets, see page 510. 

2 Carter, Howe and Mason, "Nutrition and Clinical Dietetics," Lea & Febiger, 
Philadelphia, Pa., 2nd Edition. 



NEPHRITIS 505 

the requirements of the particular case and avoiding 
undue increase in weight. 

3. In long standing cases it is not necessary to exclude 
meat absolutely, except possibly in cases of high 
arterial tension. Most authorities agree with Hare 
that the removal of red meat from the diet for a long 
period is harmful. 1 Since it is the extractives which 
seem to contain the pressor substances, meat soups are 
much better excluded from the diet and boiled meat 
is more to be desired than meat broiled or roasted, as 
boiling removes a large proportion of the extraction. 
Boiling in two waters is better still. 

4. As far as possible the diet must be kept laxative, as 
many cases of chronic nephritis are made distinctly 
worse where there is constipation. 

5. Von Noorden recommends the giving once a week of 
an extra one or two liters of water for its flushing 
effect. On these days the food is best limited to not 
over half the allowance. Of course when the patient 
is not excreting the ordinary daily allowance of water 
it would be of doubtful utility to give this extra 
amount, although Fischer insists that a kidney that is 
not secreting water in normal amounts needs more 
water, provided it contains the necessary salts and 
alkali. 

6. The use of vegetables and fruits in large amounts as 
already explained is of the greatest value in furnishing 
alkaline basic salts. 

Diet for Nitrogen Retention — Chronic Uremia 2 . — 

A diet with low nitrogen content is indicated. Miller's cream 
or milk and cream diet 3 is used to advantage. The calory 
value is low but sufficient for temporary use. Extra water 
is often given with this diet. Additions to diet are made later 
in the form of cereals and then vegetables. 

therapeutic Gazette — 1914. 
2 Miller-Forchheimer's Therapeutic — Vol. IV. 
3 Miller's Diet, see page 515. 



506 GENITO-URINARY ORGANS 

Diet for Water Retention — Edema and Salt Retention. — 

These conditions are usually found together. The Karell 
diet 1 is here used to advantage, its content of salt as well as 
its liquid being limited. When an exclusive milk diet is not 
necessary one of the salt-poor diets 2 may be used, beginning 
with those of lower protein content and working up to a 
more normal diet as indications of excretion permit. 

Kinds of Food Used: 

Soup Cream soups and green vegetable puree, without meat 

stock. 

Fish Oysters, fresh fish, boiled or broiled. 

Cereals All kinds. The wheat preparations and rice preferred 

to oatmeal. 

Bread Stale bread or toast, milk or cream toast, zwieback. 

Vegetables White potatoes baked, mashed or creamed, sweet 

potatoes, carrots, green vegetables, such as spinach, 

asparagus, string beans, cabbage, lettuce, water cress. 

Egg Not more than 1 or 2 a day. 

Fats Butter, oil, mild cheese, cream. 

Desserts Rice, tapioca, cornstarch and bread and milk puddings. 

Fruits All kinds, fresh or cooked. 

Beverages Milk, malted milk, buttermilk, cocoa, Vichy, sweet 

cider, unfermented fruit juices. Tea and coffee in 

moderation as conditions may indicate. 
Meats Meats may be used very sparingly in the diet and 

are best included only at the physician's discretion. 

Foods to Avoid: 

Fried foods, made dishes such as hash, croquettes, 
gravies, cake and pastry, condiments and spices, all 
alcohol. 

Chronic Interstitial Nephritis 

Nitrogen retention is more commonly associated with this 
type of nephritis than are water and salt retention and it is 
nearly always accompanied by high blood pressure. 

Dietetic Treatment. — It is perhaps as important to restrict 
the total amount of food taken as to eliminate particular 
kinds of food. Over-eating should be carefully avoided. 

1 Karell Diet, see page 515. 
3 Salt-Poor Diet, see page 510. 



NEPHRITIS 507 

The faulty nitrogen elimination points to a restriction of pro- 
tein food. As the disorder may be of long standing the elim- 
nation of all animal protein is not advised. Meats, fowl 
and fish — preference being given to the last two — may be 
included in the diet once a day. Otherwise the diet should 
conform to the requirements for chronic nephritis. Should 
there be symptoms of uremia the animal protein should be 
further restricted. Plentiful use of water is recommended. 
Type of Diet. — Low protein diet. 

Kidney Stones 

Dietetic Treatment. — Kidney stones may be of three gen- 
eral types ; those made of uric acid, of calcium oxalate or of 
phosphates. The diet must be determined by the type. 

For uric acid stone the diet advised for gout would be 
suitable. For the calcium oxalate stone, foods containing 
lime and oxalic acid should be avoided. Milk, eggs and fresh 
vegetables for the former ; pepper, sorrel, rhubarb, spinach, 
beet roots, dried figs, tea and cocoa for the latter. 
Meats, cereals, bread, rice, potatoes, apples may be used. 
The phosphate stones are probably not remedied much by 
diet. It is a condition associated more closely with nervous 
disturbances. Plentiful use of water is beneficial and restric- 
tion of foods rich in lime, such as milk, eggs and fruit, has 
sometimes had good effect, 

High Blood Pressure 

This is very often associated with chronic nephritis and 
with chronic interstitial nephritis. It may be the result of 
infection in tonsils or teeth or it may be associated with 
arterial or cardiac diseases. The underlying cause should be 
determined and the diet adapted to the need. Since the ma- 
jority of patients suffering from high blood pressure have 
some symptoms of nephritis the diet recommended for 
chronic nephritis will be found most valuable. 



qo8 



GENITO-URINARY ORGANS 



SALT-CONTENT-FOOD LIST 1 
ACCORDING TO LEVA 



MEATS 

Mutton 

Veal 

Calf s brain 

Calf's kidney 

Calf's liver 

Beef (lean) 

Pork (lean) 

FISH 

Trout 

Halibut 

Herring 

Cod 

Carp 

Salmon 

Sole 

Mackerel 

Haddock 

POULTRY 

Duck 

Goose 

Chicken 

Pigeon 

Turkey 

Venison 

Oyster (washed) .... 

Oyster (with sea 

water) 

SMOKED AND 
SALTED FOODS 

Ham (raw) 

Ham (boiled) 

Salmon (smoked) . . . 

Bacon (smoked, Ger- 
man) 

Bacon (smoked, Amer- 
ican) 

Corned beef, German 

Corned beef, Ameri- 
can 

Cod (salt)* 

Cod (salt, boneless)* 

Herring (smoked)*.. 

Mackerel (salt, 

dressed) 

Salmon (smoked, 
salted) 

Sardines (French, in 
oil) 

Cod-liver oil 

Gelatin (dry) 

Beef marrow ........ 

Sausages, Frankfurter 

Sausages, various 
kinds I 

Anchovy paste (Cross i 
& BlackwelP I 



% 
Sodium 
Chloride 
in Raw 
Material. 



0.17 
0.13 
0.20 
0.32 
0.14 
0.11 
0.10 



0.12 

0.30 

0.27 

0.16 

0.086 

0.061 

0.41 

0.28 

0.39 



0.14 
0.20 
0.14 
0.15 
0.17 
0.11 
0.52 

1.14 



4.15—5.86 

1.85—5.35 

7.50 

1.01 

11.61 
2.04 

11.52 
23.00 
19.00 
11.70 

10.40 

10.87 

1.34 
0.17 
0.75 
0.11 
2.20 

2.90—8.10 

40. J 



MEAT EXTRACTS 

Liebig's 

Kemmerich 

Various bouillon cap- 
sules, extracts, etc. 

PREPARED FOODS 

Plasmon 

Roborat 

Sanatogen 

Somatose 

Bovril's preparations. 
Valentine's Meat Juice 
Egg (white and yolk) 
Egg (white alone) . . . 
Egg (yolk alone) . . . 

Caviar 

Milk (whole) 1 

Cream 

Buttermilk 

Whey 

Condensed milk 

Butter (unsalted) . . . 

Butter (salted) 

Peanut butter* 

Oleomargarine 

Palmin 

Fructin 



CHEESE 

Parmesan 

Swiss 

American, pale* 

Pineapple cheese .... 

Edam 

English cream cheese 



INFANT S FOODS 



Nestle's Food . . . 

Rademan's 

Robinson's Patent 
Groats 



BREAD, ETC. 



Graham bread 

Pumpernickel 

White bread 

Ordinary white bread 
(not salt-free) 

Rye bread 

Zwieback 

Macaroni 



Sodium 
Chloride 
in Raw 
Material. 



2.60 
1.40 



9.40—22.0 



0.21 

0.0051 

0.42 

0.66 
0.36—14.1 
0.08—1.20 

0.21 

0.20 

0.039 

3.00 

0.18 

0.13 

0.16 
0.11—0.15 

0.40 
0.02—0.21 
1.00—3.00 

4.10 

2.15 ' 

0.0016 

0.10 



1.93 
2.00 
0.82 
2.13 
3.30 
0.70—1.15 



0.29 
0.03 



Trace 



0.61 

0.46 

0.18—0.70 

0.701 

0.18—0.59 

0.38 

0.067 



1 T>r. Coleman in Forchheimer's "Therapeutics of Internal Diseases," Vol. 1, 
p. 642. 

*Analyses marked thus * from Atwater and Bryant; 'from Carter. 



NEPHRITIS 



509 



CEREALS, ETC. 

Barley 

Oats 

Rye 

Wheat 

Rice 

Corn (maize) 

Wheat flour 

Oatmeal (American) 
Oatmeal (German) . 

Quaker oats 

Sago 

VEGETABLES 

Potatoes . „ 

Beets 

Beans 

Peas 

Lettuce 

Lentils 

Lentils (dried) 

Artichokes 

Cauliflower 

Cucumber (fresh) . . 

Horse-radish 

Radish 

Celery, stalks 

Celery, roots 

Asparagus , 

Spinach 

Tomatoes 

Cabbage 

Onions 

CANNED 
VEGETABLES 

Green corn* 

Green peas* 

Tomatoes* 

Mushrooms 

FRUITS 

Pineapple 

Orange 

Apricot 

Lemon 

Strawberry 

Chestnuts 

Cherry 

Cocoanut juice 

Olives 

Plum 

Gooseberry 

Watermelon juice. . 

Grape 

Almonds, dry 

Walnuts, dry 

Cane sugar 

Lump sugar 

Chocolate (Lindt) . 



Sodium 
Chloride 
in Raw 
Material. 



0.037 
0.046 
0.014 
0.013 
0.039 
0.019 
0.002—0.008 
0.29 
0.28 
0.082 
0.19 



0.016—0.078 

0.058 

0.09 

0.058 

0.12 
0.13—0.19 

0.155 

0.036 
0.05—0.15 
0.06—0.08 
0.02—0.06 

0.075 
0.25—0.49 

0.089 

0.04—0.06 

0.084—0.21 

0.094 
0.11—0.44 
0.016—0.09 



0.40 

0.70 

0.10 

0.04—0.06 



0.071 
0.0057—0.0550 

0.0047 

0.0045 
0.0100—0.020 
0.0045—0.010 

0.013 

0.035 
0.008—0.210 

0.0046 

0.021 

0.011 

0.024 

0.010 

0.019 

0.110 

0.049 

0.073 



SPICES 

Capers (preserved in 
salt) 

Capers (preserved in 
vinegar) 

Pepper, black 

Pepper, white 

Mustard 

Vanilla 

Cinnamon 

Cocoa beans 

Coffee (roasted) .... 

Tea 

DRINKS 

Ground water 

Spring water 

Ale 

Beer (German) .... 

Beer (English) 

Champagne (Moet & 

Chandon) 

Apollinaris 

Fachinger 

Giesshtibel (Mattoni) 
Vichy 

FOODS PREPARED 
FOR TABLE 

Beef broth > 

Bouillon 

Thick soups 

Oatmeal gruel 1 .... 

Roast beef 

Roast pork 

Lamb Chops (Cole- 
man) 

Chicken l 

Roast chicken 

Chicken broth J .... 

Sauces 

Scrambled eggs 
(salted) 

Spinach 

Carrots x 

Carrots 

Cauliflower 

Green salad 

Apple sauce 

Apple sauce ' 

Stewed pears 

Tapioca pudding (un- 
salted) 

Macaroni (a la Na- 
politaine) 

Pea soup 1 

Rice with apples. . . . 

Potatoes (boiled) 1 . . . 



Sodium 
Chloride 
in Raw 
Material. 



2.10 

0.20 
0.51 
0.019 
2.66 
0.055 
0.061 
0.05—0.095 
0.045 
0.15 



0.0012—0.0060 
0.00055—0.0046 

0.0017 

0.016 

0.10 

0.0045 

0.043 

0.039 

0.0021 

0.053 



0.735 
0.5—1.0 
0.54 
0.075 
0.98 
1.54 

0.97 
0.01 
0.39 
0.35 
0.7—1.5 

1.10 

0.91 

0.029 

0.46 

0.49 

0.41 

0.031 

0.0005 

0.019 

0.026 

1.04 
0.499 
0.18 
0.058 



•Analyses marked thus * f rom Atwater and Bryant; 'from Carter. 



5"> 



GENITO-URINARY ORGANS 



Food Combinations and Menus 

(salt-poor diets) 

carter's salt-poor diets 1 

The cereals, butter, bread, etc., used in these diets, are all 
prepared without salt. 

Diet No. i may be used at once in very severe cases. In 
milder cases No. 2, No. 3, No. 4 or No. 5 may be used or 
they may be used in series as the individual case shows im- 
provement. The length of time each should be used is a 
matter for judgment on the physician's part. Later, ordinary 
mixed diet may be used without the use of a salt shaker 
after which definite amounts of salt may be allowed. 

DIET, no. 1 

For 1350 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 36 gm. 
(1 1/6 oz.) ; fat, 65 gm. (2/6 oz.) ; carbohydrate, 160 gm. 
(Sy 3 oz.) ; chlorides, 1 gm. 

(low in protein) 

Breakfast : Gm. Oz. 

Farina 60 2 

Bread 30 1 

Butter (unsalted) 30 1 

Sugar 10 y 3 

Egg (1) 40 \y 3 

Coffee 175 5 2 / 3 

Prunes, stewed 60 2 

Total 405 Uy 3 

Dinner : Gm. Oz. 

Rice 60 2 

Farina 100 3y 3 

Bread 30 1 

Butter (unsalted) 20 2 / 3 

Sugar 10 y 3 

Tea 175 Sy 3 

Total 395 13 

Supper : Gm. Oz. 

Toast 15 y 2 

Kgg (i) 40 \y 3 

Bread 30 1 

barter Howe and Mason, "Nutrition and Clinical Dietetics," Lea & Febiger, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 



NEPHRITIS 511 

Supper : Gm. Oz. 

Butter (unsalted) 15 */ 2 

Sugar 10 y 3 

Custard 100 Zy 3 

Baked apple 60 2 

Tea 175 Sy 3 

Total 445 \4 2 / 3 

DIET, NO. II 

For 2150 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 51 gm. 
(l 2 / 3 oz.); fat, 100 gm. (3y 3 oz.) ; carbohydrate, 250 gm. (8^ 
oz.) ; chlorides, 1.4 gm. 

Breakfast : Gm. Oz. 

Egg (1) 40 iy 3 

Farina 60 2 

Bread 65 2V 6 

Butter (unsalted) 30 1 

Coffee 175 Sy 3 

Prunes or baked apple 60 2 

Total 430 14 

Dinner : Gm. Oz. 

Egg (1) 40 \y 3 

Bread 60 2 

Butter (unsalted) 35 1% 

Farina 100 Zy 3 

Sugar 10 y 3 

Rice 60 2 

Tea 175 Sy 3 

Total 480 15J4 

Supper : Gm. Oz. 

Toast 15 y 2 

Egg (1) 40 \y 3 

Butter (unsalted) 30 1 

Bread 60 2 

Custard 100 Zy 3 

Baked apple 60 2 

Prunes 60 2 

Tea 175 Sy 3 

Total 540 \iy 2 



512 GENITO-URINARY ORGANS 

DIET, NO. Ill 

For 2000 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 37 gm. 
(IVq oz.) (5.9 gm. nitrogen) ; chlorides about 1 gm. (15 grains) 

Breakfast : Gm. Oz. 

Bread 30 1 

Egg (1) 40 \y 3 

Wheat or corn cereal 60 2 

Orange juice 200c.c 6y 3 

Sugar 25 % 

Butter 20 y 3 

Cream 50 \y 3 

Luncheon : Gm. Oz. 

Potato or young carrots 50 \y 3 

Bread 30 1 

Rice 80 2 2 /z 

Tomato 100 3 l / 3 

Butter 20 2 / 3 

Raisins 15 y 

Sugar 10 y 3 

Ice cream 100 3 l / 3 

Supper : Gm. Oz. 

Bread 40 V/ 3 

Butter 30 1 

Wheat or corn cereal 60 2 

Cream 50 \ 2 / 3 

Raisins 10 Y 3 

Sugar 35 1 

Potato or young carrots 50 \ 2 / 3 

Egg (1) 40 V/ 3 

DIET, NO. IV 

For 2600 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 35 gm. 
(IYq oz.) (5.6 gm. nitrogen) ; chlorides about 1 gm. (15 grains) 

Breakfast : Gm. Oz 

Bread 60 2 

Orange juice 200 6 2 / 3 

Butter 40 V/ 3 

Cream 30 1 

Farina 50 \y 3 

Sugar 30 1 

Coffee or tea 180c.c 6 

Luncheon : Gm. Oz. 

Bread 40 V/ 3 

Butter 20 2 / 3 

Egg (i) 40 \y 3 






NEPHRITIS 513 

Luncheon : Gm. Oz. 

Potato or carrots 125 4 

Cream cheese 20 2 / 3 

Sugar 30 1 

Rice 50 m 

Cream 30 1 

Supper : Gm. Oz. 

Bread 50 \ 2 / 3 

Butter 35 1 

Farina 50 l 2 / 3 

Cream 40 V/3 

Cream cheese 30 1 

Olive oil 15 J /4 

Lactose 8 V\ 

Sugar 30 1 

Potato or carrots 75 2J^ 

May have in addition moderate amount of tomatoes, lettuce, cab- 
bage, cauliflower, spinach (fresh), beets, carrots, squash, oranges, 
grape-fruit, peaches, grapes, apricots, pears, melons, jams. 

DIET, NO. V 

For 3000 Calories a Dav: Approximate values — protein, 69 gm. 
(2 l / 3 oz.) ; nitrogen, 11 gm. ( l / 3 oz.) ; chlorides, 1-1.5 (15-23 
grains) 

(higher protein) 

Breakfast : Gm. Oz. 

Bread 60 2 

Orange juice 200 6 2 / 3 

Butter 30 1 

Eggs (2) 80 2 2 / 3 

Wheat or corn meal 90 3 

Fresh fruit 50 \ 2 / 3 

Cream 40 V/ 3 

Sugar 50 \ 2 / 3 

Tea or coffee 150 5 

Luncheon : Gm. Oz. 

Bread 40 V/ 3 

Butter 10 V 3 

Potato or carrots 80 2]/ 3 

Meat — choice of: 

Lamb chop or 100 Z l / 3 

Steak or 100 3}/ 3 

Chicken 125 4 

Fish 70 iy 3 

Rice 80 2 2 / 3 

Cream 20 2 / 3 

Vegetables from list. 



514 GENITO-URINARY ORGANS 

Supper : Gm. Oz. 

Bread 50 \y 3 

Butter 30 1 

Cream 40 V/ 3 

Lactose 8 y 3 

Cereal 30 1 

Stewed fruit 100 2>y 3 

Olive oil 20 y 3 

Eggs (2) 80 234 

Sugar 30 1 

Tea 150 5 

The same list of accessory fruits and vegetables that was given 

with Diet No. 4 is available here. 

Other Nephritic Diets 

widal's strict salt-poor diet 

For 2500 Calories a Day : Approximate content — protein, 90 gm. ; 
"1 to 2 gm. NaCl. 

Salt-free bread 200 gm. 

Meat (beef, chicken or mutton) 200 gm. 

Vegetables (beans or rice), salt-free 250 gm. 

Butter, salt-free 50 gm. 

Sugar 40 gm. 

Schedule of Feeding: 
8 A. M. Chicken and rice (chicken, 50 gm. ; rice, 75 gm.), bread, 
40 gm. ; butter, 10 gm. 

12 M. Roast lamb, 75 gm. ; beans, 100 gm. ; bread, 80 gm. ; butter, 

20 gm. 

5 P. M. Steak, 75 gm. ; bread, 80 gm., butter, 20 gm., rice, 75 

gm. ; sugar, 40 gm. 

halpin's salt-poor nephritic diet 

For 2700 Calories a Day: Approximate content — protein, 119 gm. ; 
salt, 5 to 6 gm. 

Milk 1500 to 2000 c.c. 

White salt-free bread 400 to 500 gm. 

Salt-free butter 40 gm. 

Eggs 4 to 6 

Schedule of Feeding: 

6 A. M. Eggnog (1 egg, 200 c.c. milk). 

8 A. M. Hot milk (200 c.c), toast (bread, 100 gm.), poached egg 
(1 egg). 

10 A. M. Milk, 200 c.c; bread, 50 gm. 

1 P. M. Milk, 200 c.c; bread, 100 gm. ; 1 egg (coddled). 



NEPHRITIS 515 

4 P. M. Milk Toast (200 c.c. milk, 50 gm. bread). 
7 P. M. Omelet (1 egg), bread, 100 gm. ; milk, 200 c.c; custard 
(1 egg, 200 c.c. milk). 

karell's salt-poor milk diet 

Schedule of Feeding: 

For first five to seven days — 

8 A. M.-12 M.^l-8 P. M. Milk, 200 c.c. (6^ oz.) 

No other fluids allowed. 

Approximate content — Nad, 1.2 gm., Calories, 520. 

Eighth Day — 

Milk as above. 

10 A. M. 1 soft cooked egg. 

6 P. M. 2 pieces dry toast. 
Approximate content, NaCl, 1.75 gm., Calories, 770. 

Ninth Day — 

Milk as above. 

10 A. M. 1 soft cooked egg, 2 pieces dry toast. 

6 P. M. 1 soft cooked egg and 2 pieces dry toast. 
Approximate content, NaCl, 2.2 gm., Calories, 1020. 

Tenth, eleventh and twelfth days — 
Milk as above. 

12 Noon. Chopped meat (if allowed), rice boiled in milk, vege- 
tables. 

6 P. M. 1 soft cooked egg. 

No salt is used throughout diet. Salt-free toast and butter 

used. Small amount of cracked ice allowed with diet. All 

meat may often be omitted advantageously. 

miller's diet for nitrogen retention 

Daily Allowance: Approximate Content: 

1 pint cream Protein, 12.5 gm., Calories, 1000 

or 
1 pint cream with 1 pint milk Protein, 29 gm., Calories, 1350 

PETER BENT BRIGHAM HOSPITAL NEPHRITIC DIET 1 

There are available the following diets : 

1. Standard Nephritic Diet: Protein, 75 gms., NaCl, 4 gms.; 
fat and carbohydrates to make up to 2000 calories. Tea or cof- 
1 In use at Peter Brent Brigham Hospital, Boston, Mass., August, 1921. 



5i6 



GENITO-URINARY ORGANS 



fee, 150 to 300 c.c., is to be served in the morning; milk, 400 c.c, 
during the day and water and other beverages to make up a 
total of 1500 c.c. 

2. Low Protein Nephritic Diet : Protein, 25 gms., NaCl, 4 gms. ; 
fat and carbohydrates to make up to 2000 to 2200 calories ; 
tea or coffee, 150 to 300 c.c, and water and other beverages to 
make up a total of 1500 c.c. 

3. Salt-Poor Standard Nephritic Diet : Same is Standard Neph- 
ritic except that NaCl is 2 gms. or less. 

4. Salt-Poor Low Protein Diet: Same as Low Protein Neph- 
ritic Diet except that NaCl is 2 gms. or less. 

Approximate Standard Nephritic Diet, etc., means that 
any of the above diets may be ordered as ' 'approximate" for 
patients not under special tests. When so ordered they will 
be made up in the kitchen in form approximating the 
formulae for the special diets but will not be weighed out 
with the accuracy of the special diets and slips with food 
weights will not be sent to the wards. 

STANDARD NEPHRITIS 1 75-80 GMS. PROTEIN 



Supper 5 :30 

Meat 50 gm. 

Vegetables 100 gm. 

Fruit 100 gm. 

Bread . 20 gm. 

Sugar 

NaCl 1 gm. 



Breakfast 7 :30 A. M. 

Fruit 100 gm. 

Cereal 150 gm. 

Egg 50 gm. 

Bread 20 gm. 

Butter 

Sugar 

Cream 

Milk 
10 A. M. Milk 200 c.c. 



Dinner 12 

Meat 75 gm. 

Vegetables 100 gm. 
Bread 20 gm. 



Butter 

Potato 

Sugar 

Dessert 

NaCl 



. 100 gm. 



Totals for Day 

Bread 60 gm. 

Butter 100 gm. 

Sugar 40 gm. 

Cream .... 60 gm. 

Milk 450 gm. 

Eggs (2).. 100 gm. 




^Calories 
1445.07 



*These are the figures for the unchanging amounts of food 
in the diet — bread, butter, sugar, cream, milk, potato and 
eggs. They do not include fruit, cereal, meat and varying 
vegetables. 

Butter is divided into three parts, one for each meal. 

1 In use at Peter Brent Brigham Hospital, Boston, Mass., August, 1921. 



NEPHRITIS 



517 



Sugar may be used on cereal, fruit or in dessert. Cream and 
Milk may be used for cereal, fruit, in dessert or given as a 
drink. Eggs, one for breakfast and one in noon dessert. 
Meat, usually steak or chop, given at noon and cold chicken, 
beef or lamb given at night. Salt contained in food of 
Standard Nephritic Diet averages about 2 gms. Two gms. ad- 
ditional salt is sent daily. If the diet is ordered salt-poor, 
no additional salt is given. The majority of standard neph- 
ritic diets are ordered salt-poor. Weak tea or coffee may be 
given with this diet. Fresh butter and salt-poor bread are 
used. Dessert at noon is made of cream, milk, sugar and 
one egg. In addition, gelatin, cocoa, cocoanut, cornstarch, 
rice or fruit, etc., are sometimes used in dessert. 

Suggestions for Dessert: Lemon jelly with soft custard, 
ice cream, custards, cornstarch pudding, rice pudding. 



SAMPLE MENU 



7:30,4. M. 

Orange 100 gm. 

Cr. Wheat 150 gm. 

Toast 20 gm. 

Butter 10 gm. 

Cream .... 30 c.c. 

Milk 70 c.c. 

Egg 50 gm. 



12 Noon 

Steak 75 gm. 

Potato 100 gm. 

Peas 100 gm. 

Bread 20 gm. 

Butter 25 gm. 

Choc. Blanc-Mange 

Milk 150 c.c. 

Sugar 10 gm. 

Egg (1) .. 50 gm. 

Cornstarch 4 gm. 

Cocoa 5 gm. 



P. M. 

Chicken ... 50 gm. 

Tomatoes . . 100 gm. 

Toast 20 gm. 

Baked Apple 100 gm. 

Sugar 10 gm. 

Cream 30 c.c. 

Milk 30 c.c. 

Butter 10 gm. 



Calculations 

Orange 100 

Cr. of Wheat... 150 

Peas 100 

Tomatoes 100 

Steak 75 

Chicken 50 

Apple 100 

Cornstarch .... 4 
Cocoa 4 






r otein 


Calories 


.8 


51.4 


2.475 


81.433 


3.6 


55.4 


1.2 


22.6 


17.625 


199.2 


10.95 


77.1 


.4 


62.9 


.56 


8.64 


.516 


24.44 



38.126 
38.04 

76.16 



583.116 
1445.07 

2028.185 



5i8 



GENITO-URINARY ORGANS 



LOW PROTEIN 1 25-3O GMS. PROTEIN 



Breakfast 


7:30 A. M. 


Dinner 


Supper 




Fruit . . 


. . . . 100 gm. 


Potato 100 gm. 


Vegetable . 


. 100 gm. 


Cereal 


....150 gm. 


Vegetable . . 100 gm. 


Bread .... 


. 30 gm. 


Bread . 


. . . . 30 gm. 


Bread 30 gm. 


Butter 




Sugar 




Butter 


Fruit 


. 100 gm. 


Butter 




Sugar 


Sugar 








Dessert 


NaCl 


. 1 gm. 






NaCl 1 gm. 






Totals for 


Day 


*Amount Protein 


^Calories 




Bread .. 


.... 90 gm. 


without egg 15.78 gm. 


1812.31 




Butter . 


... 60 gm. 


with egg white 


1825.0 




Sugar . 


65 gm. 


in dessert 18.855 gm. 


1902.935 




Cream . 


....200 gm. 


with egg yolk 






Potato . 


... 100 gm. 


in dessert 19.705 






NaCl . . 


... 2 gm. 









*These are the figures for the unchanging amounts of food 
in the diet — bread, butter, sugar, cream and potato. They 
do not include fruit, cereal and varying vegetables. Butter 
is divided into 3 parts, one for each meal. Sugar may be 
used on cereal, fruit, in dessert or lemonade. Salt contained 
in food of Low Protein Diet averages about 2 gms. Two gms. 
additional salt is sent daily. If the diet is ordered salt-poor, 
no additional salt is sent. The majority of Low Protein 
diets are ordered salt-poor. Dessert at noon is made up of 
cream and sugar, with or without egg white or egg yolk. In 
addition gelatin, cocoa, cocoanut, cornstarch, rice or fruit 
are sometimes used in dessert. 

Suggestions for Dessert. — Lemon jelly with whipped 
cream, fruit whips, ice cream, mousse, cornstarch puddings, 
custards and rice pudding. Weak tea or cofTee may be 
served. Fresh butter and salt-poor bread are used. 

SAMPLE MENU 



7 :30 A. M. 

Orange . . .100 gm. 
Cr. Wheat 150 gm. 

Toast 30 gm. 

Butter 20 gm. 



12 Noon 
Potato 
Peas . 
Bread 
Butter 



, 100 gm. 
100 gm. 

30 gm. 

40 gm. 



5 P. M. 
Tomatoes . . 100 gm. 

Toast 30 gm. 

Butter 20 gm. 

Baked Apple 100 gm. 



l In use at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, Boston, Mass., August, 1921. 



: 



NEPHRITIS 



519 



7:30 A M. 

Cream 50 gm. 

Sugar .... 45 gm. 
Any sugar not used 
for breakfast may be 
used in lemonade dur- 
ing the day. 


12 Noon 

Choc. Blanc-Mange 

Cream 100 c.c. 

Cocoa 4 gm. 

Cornstarch 4 gm. 

Sugar 10 gm. 


5 P.M. 

Sugar 

Cream 


10 gm. 
50 c.c. 


Calculations 

Orange 100 gm. 

Cr. Wheat 150 gm. 

Peas 100 gm. 

Cocoa 4 gm. 

Cornstarch 4 gm. 
Tomatoes . . 100 gm. 
Apple 100 gm. 


Protein 

.8 
2.475 
3.6 

.516 
1.2 

.4 






Calorics 
51.4 
81.435 
55.4 
24.44 
8.64 
22.5 
62.9 




9.551 
15.78 






306.815 
1812.810 






25.331 






2119.125 





TWO HOUR RENAL TEST 1 
Patients on Two Hour Renal Test Must Be Kept in Bed 

BREAKFAST DINNER SUPPER 



7. A. M. 



12 Noon 



5 P. M. 



Orange 50 gm. 

Oatmeal 150 gm. 

1 egg 50 gm. 

Toast 20 gm. 

Butter 5 gm. 

Sugar 10 gm. 

Cream 20 c.c. 

Milk 25 c.c. 

Sugar 5 gm. 

Tea or coffee 150 c.c. 



Chicken 

Broth .... 

Rice 

Steak 

Potato 

Butter 

Peas 

Butter 

Milk 

Flour 

Bread 

Butter 

Ice Cream ) 
NaCl j 

Tea 

Sugar 

Milk 

Water with 

meal 



250 c.c. 

5 gm. 

75 gm. 

100 gm. 

10 gm. 

100 gm. 

10 gm. 

100 gm. 

2 gm. 

20 gm. 

5 gm. 

3.5 gm. 

150 c.c. 
10 gm. 
25 c.c. 

500 c.c. 



Tomatoes . 
I Butter 

Lettuce 

Celery 

Olive Oil... 

Bread 

Butter 

Apple 

! Sugar 

Cream 

Water with 
meal 



75 gm. 
10 gm. 
20 gm. 
50 gm. 
20 c.c. 
20 gm. 
5 gm. 
100 gm. 
10 gm. 
20 c.c. 

350 c.c. 



TOTAL FLUID INTAKE 1490 C.C. APPROXIMATELY 



In use at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, Boston, Mass, August, 1921 



520 GENITO-URINARY ORGANS 

LIGHT NEPHRITIC DIET 
Breakfast : 

Fruit juice, strained cereal, cocoa, toast and butter. 
Dinner : 

Cream soup, tapioca or cornstarch pudding or junket. 

Supper : 

Strained cereal with cream, strained stewed fruit, cocoa, toast and 
butter. 

SOFT NEPHRITIC DIET 

Breakfast: 

Cooked fruit or fruit juice, cereal with cream, cocoa, toast and 
butter. 

Dinner : 

Cream soup, mashed or baked potato, well-cooked green vegetables, 
junket or starchy pudding, cocoa, toast and butter. 

Supper : 

Cereal and cream, baked or creamed potato, cooked fruit, cocoa, 
toast and butter. 

FULL NEPHRITIC DIET 

Meat, fish or fowl once daily. 

Breakfast: 

Fruit, raw or cooked, or fruit juices, cereal with cream, cocoa, toast 
and butter. 

Dinner : 

Cream soup, meat, fish or fowl, potatoes or sweet potatoes, baked, 
boiled or mashed. Green vegetables — any of those allowed. Salad 
plain or with fruit or vegetables. Salad dressing made with lemon 
instead of vinegar. Dessert — farinaceous puddings or fruits, 
cocoa, bread and butter. 

Supper : 

Cereal with cream, white or sweet potato, baked or creamed, green 
vegetable, vegetable or fruit salad, stewed fruit, cocoa, bread and 
butter. 

Suggestions to Nurse. — With the above rather wide choice 
of food it is possible to arrange daily menus with consider- 
able variety. A different fruit or a different form of serving 
it may be chosen each day. Cereals may be rotated and care- 



NEPHRITIS 521 

full choice of green vegetables will insure a diet that need 
not be monotonous. 

Kidney Dietary Tests 
In order to adjust the diet as nearly as possible to the 
needs of a particular case it is necessary to determine the 
extent of the kidney's inability to eliminate water, salt and 
nitrogen, and certain diet tests are made for this purpose. 
The water excretion can be ascertained by measuring the 
actual intake and output in twenty-four hours. Schlayer's 
Nephritic Test Day as modified by Mosenthal is also used to 
determine sodium chloride, nitrogen and water. 

DIRECTIONS FOR SCHLAYER's NEPHRITIC TEST DAY 1 

(mosenthal) 

Needed in the Ward: 

7 wide-necked bottles, each labeled. 

1 bottle to hold 1000 c.c. for night specimen. 

6 bottles to hold 500 c.c. each, for two-hour specimens during day. 

Salt in capsules ; each capsule to contain 2.3 grams sodium 

chloride. 

Preceding day's diet should be soft salt-poor with fluids limited to 
1500c.c. 

Test Day. 

1. All food is to be salt-free, from the diet kitchen. 

2. Salt for each meal will be furnished in weighed amounts, 
one capsule containing 2.3* grams sodium chloride with each 
meal. 

3. All food or fluid not taken must be weighed or measured after 
meals and charted. 

4. Allow no food or fluid of any kind except at meal times as 
directed. 

5. Note any mishap or irregularities that occur in giving the 
diet or in collection of specimens. 

Meals to be given at the following hours: 

Breakfast, 7 :45 A. M. 
Dinner, 1 :45 A. M. 
Supper, 4:45 P. M. 

No fluids between meals or during the night. 

Collection of urine during the day every two hours, and from 7 :45 
P. M. to 7:45 A. M. 

*Dr. Herbert S. Carter, "Presbyterian Diet Lists," New York City. 



522 GENITO-URINARY ORGANS 

Empty bladder at the following times: 

No. of specimen 7 :45 A. M. discard. 

1 9 :45 A. M. save in separate bottle 

2 11 :45 A. M. save in separate bottle 

3 1 :45 P. M. save in separate bottle 

4 3 :45 P. M. save in separate bottle 

5 5 :45 P. M. save in separate bottle 

6 7 :45 P. M. save in separate bottle 

7 7 :45 P. M. to 7 :45 A. M. 

Label each bottle with period of collection, number of specimen and 
name of patient and send to laboratory. 

Schedule of Feeding: 

Breakfast: 

7:45 A. M (Chart food or fluid not taken.) Boiled oatmeal, 

100 grams (3^ oz.) ; sugar, one-half teaspoonful; 
milk, 30 c.c. (1 oz.) ; two slices of bread, 30 grams 
each, (1 oz.) ; butter, 20 grams ( 2 /z oz.) ; coffee, 
160 c.c. (5y3 oz.) ; milk, 40 c.c. (lYz oz.) ; sugar 
one teaspoonful; milk, 200 c.c. (6 2 /i oz.) ; water, 
200 c.c. (6 2 / 3 oz.). 

Dinner : 

11:45 A. M Meat soup, 180 c.c. (6 oz.) ; beefsteak, 100* grams 

(3*/3 oz.) ; potatoes, baked, mashed or boiled, 130 
grams (4}/$ oz.) ; green vegetables as desired; two 
slices bread, 30 grams each, (1 oz.) ; butter, 20 
grams ( 2 /z oz.) ; tea, 180 c.c. (6 oz.) ; milk, 20 c.c. 
(Y3 oz.) ; sugar, one teaspoonful; water, 250 c.c. 
(8^3 oz.) ; tapioca or rice pudding, 110 grams 
(3 2 / 3 oz.). 

Supper : 

4:45 P. M Two eggs (coeked in any style); two slices of 

bread, 30 grams each, (1 oz.) ; butter, 20 grams 

( 2 / 3 oz.) ; tea, 180 c.c. (6 oz.) ; milk, 20 c.c. 

(Yz oz.) ; sugar, one teaspoonful; fruit, stewed or 

fresh, one portion. 

One capsule of salt with each meal, 3 x 2.3 grams. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 
NEPHRITIS 

1. What metabolic disturbances are usual in cases of nephritis? 

2. How may this trouble be treated by diet? 

3. What is the usual treatment in acute cases? 

4. What type of diet is recommended in albuminuria? 

5. Outline the dietetic treatment of chronic nephritis. 

6. Advise diets for nitrogen retention; for water and salt retenion. 

7. What selection of food should there be for kidney stones? Speak 

of the various types. 



NEPHRITIS 523 

8 - C h a ^ high blood pressure be treated effectively by diet? If so, 

in ^u at is meant . b y a salt-poor diet? Why is it given? 
11 wu y ^ re P roteins restricted in nephritic diets? 

ro/sting? 0llmg ° f mCatS recommended instead of broiling or 

U ' ^urse?^" 8 meaIS f ° r SUCh CaSeS ' What mUSt be the aim of the 



CHAPTER XXIII 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 1 

Dietetic Treatment. — Many types of nervous disorders re- 
spond very gratifying to dietetic treatment. The organic 
nervous diseases such as neuritis and epilepsy are often 
helped by a low protein diet while functional disorders like 
neurasthenia respond to a rest cure with diet made up 
largely of milk. 

Neuritis 

Neuritis may be associated with alcoholism, gouty condi- 
tion or malnutrition, each condition calling for special treat- 
ment. In the first, of course, the use of alcohol should be 
stopped, in the gouty condition a purin-free diet, such as is 
recommended for gout, 2 should be used. When neuritis ac- 
companies an under-nourished condition a well-balanced diet 
that will cover the patient's nutritive requirement should be 
arranged and in all these cases careful regulation of the in- 
testinal function is of utmost importance. 

Neurasthenia 

The causes of this trouble are varied. "The great essen- 
tials to the treatment of these cases are rest, diet, diversion 
and required exercise." 3 

The treatment calls for a very nourishing diet. The Keat- 
ing Diet is used with success in mild cases. It is given as 
follows : 

1 Arranged under the supervision of Dr. B. Franklin Stahl, Clinical Professor 
of Medicine, Women's Medical College of Pennsylvania. Visiting Physician to 
the St. Agnes and the Philadelphia General Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa. 

2 See page 398. 

8 Carter, Howe and Mason, "Nutrition and Clinical Dietetics," Lea & Febiger, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 

524 



NEURITIS, NEURASTHENIA 525 

The Keating Treatment 
6 A. M. 240 c.c. (8 oz.) strong beef tea, hot. 

8 A. M. Half glass of iron water. 

Breakfast of fruit, steak, coffee 240 c.c. (8 oz.). Milk 
with extract of malt, citrate of iron and 6 grains quinine. 
10 A. M. Electricity. 
12 Noon Milk, 240 c.c. (8 oz.) with malt. 

2 P. M. Dinner with half glass of iron water followed by a glass 
of milk with malt. 

6 P. M. Third dose of iron water with light 

Supper of fruits, bread and butter and cream. Glass of 
milk and malt. 

10 P. M. Beef soup, 120 c.c. (4 oz.) preceded by massage with 
cocoa oil for one hour. 



526 DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 

KEATING DIET, NO. I 

For 1118 Calorics a Day: Approximate values — protein, 144.2 gm. ; 
fat, 96.9 gm. ; carbohydrate, 133.8 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



MEASURE 



oz. 


GM. 


6.4 


150.0 


5.0 
2.0 
8.0 


128.0 

75.0 

226.0 


11.4 


325.0 


11.4 


325.0 


6.6 
4.0 
4.0 


150.0 
100.0 
100.0 
100.0 


2.6 


75.0 




3.3 


8.0 


226.0 


11.4 


325.0 


2.0 


50.0 



6 A.M.: 

Strong Beef Tea, 



Breakfast : 8 A. M. 
Stewed Peaches . 
Pan broiled steak 

Coffee 



Milk 

Iron water 

Electricity : 10 A. M. 
Noon: 
Milk with extract of malt 



Dinner: 2 P. M. 

Clear Soup (Broth) 

Roast Beef 

Swiss chard 

Asparagus 

Coffee jelly sweetened 
with saccharin 



Coffee 

Milk with extract of malt 

Iron water 

Supper : 6 P. M. 

Orange and grapes * 



1 cup 



1 peach med. 

med. serving 

l J A cup 

240 c.c. 

% cup milk 

1 tbsp. extract 

of malt 
V2 glass 



% cup milk 
1 tbsp. extract 
of malt 



1 cup 

av. serving 
av. serving 
av. serving 

av. serving 

gel. 4 gm. 
coffee liquid 

2 tbsp. 
1*A cup 
240 c.c. 

% cup milk 
1 tbsp. extract 
of malt 



glass 



med. serving 
1 orange 
8 grapes 



60.0 
140.0 



221.0 



221.0 



156.0 
20.0 
20.0 

13.0 

13.0 



221.0 



53.0 



Sweeten with saccharin. 



NEURITIS, NEURASTHENIA 

KEATING DIET, NO. I CONTINUED 



527 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



MEASURE 



OZ. 



CAL. 



Bread 

Butter 

Cream (40%) 
Tea (weak) . . 



Milk with extract of malt 

Iron water 

10 P. M. : 
Beef Soup 



1 slice 

3" x zy 2 " x y 2 " 

2 sq. 

iy 2 "xiy 2 "xy 4 " 

5 tbsp. 

1 cup 

Y% cup milk 

1 tbsp. extract 

of malt 
H glass 



H cup 
120 c.c. 



.7 


20.0 


.7 


20.0 


2.0 


50.0 


11.4 


325.6 


4.0 


113.0 



50.0 
153.0 
192.0 
221.6 



24.0 



1778.0 



KEATING DIET, NO. II 

For 2017 Calories a Day: Approximate values — 
fat, 113.3 gm. ; carbohydrate, 142.9 



protein, 144.9 gm. ; 
gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



6 A.M.: 

Strong Beef Tea. 



MEASURE 



OZ. I GM. CAL. 



Breakfast: 8 A. M. 

Orange E. P. * 

Broiled Steak 

Coffee 

{Extract of malt. . . 
Citrate of iron 
6 gr. quinine 

Iron Water 

Electricity : 10 A. M. 

Noon : 

Milk with extract of malt 



1 cup 



1 med. 
med. serving 
iy> cup 
.240 c.c. 
y% cup milk 
1 tbsp. extract 
of malt 



glass 



7 /& cup milk 
1 tbsp. extract 
of malt 



6.0 



2.0 
2.0 
8.0 

11.4 



11.4 



150.0 



60.0 

75.0 

226.0 

325.0 



325.0 



28.0 
140.0 



221.0 



221.0 



Edible portion. 



528 DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 

KEATING DIET, NO. II — CONTINUED 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



MEASURE 



oz. 


GM. 


6.0 


150.0 


5.0 


150.0 


3.0 


85.0 


2.0 


60.0 


2.0 


50.0 


2.0 


40.0 


.1 


4.0 


.1 


2.0 


.4 


10.0 


.1 


7.0 


11.4 


325.0 


8.0 


226.0 


2.0 


70.0 


3.0 


50.0 


.7 


20.0 


.7 


20.tf 


,1*1.4 


325.6 


4.0 


113.0 



CAL. 



Dinner : 2 P. M. 

Broth 

Roast Chicken 

Peas 

Beets 

Salad * LettuCe * 

balad { Cottage Cheese . . 

Bavarian Cream 1 

Chocolate and nuts 



Milk with extract of malt 

Coffee 

Iron water 

Supper : 6 P. M. 
Baked Apple and Cream 2 . 
Cream (40%) 

Bread 

Butter 

Tea (weak) 

Milk with extract of malt 

Iron water 

10 P. M.: 
Beef Soup 



1 cup 

av. serving 

y 4 cup 

2 med. beets 
med. serving 
2 small balls 
gel., 1 tsp. 
cocoa, 1 tsp. 
cream, 1 tbsp. 
nuts, 5 pecans 
Y% cup milk 

1 tbsp. extract 

of malt 
\ l / 2 cup 
240 c.c. 
Vi. glass 



1 med. 

5 tbsp. (for tea 
and apple) 

1 slice 

3" x zy 2 " x yr 

2 sq. 

l^"xlH"x^" 
1 cup 

% cup milk 
1 tbsp. extract 

of malt 
y glass 



y A cup 

120 c.c. 



246.0 
72.0 
20.0 
12.0 
43.0 
13.0 
47.0 
39.0 
53.0 

221.0 



60.0 

192.0 
50.0 

153.0 
221.6 



24.0 



2037.0 



1 Sweeten with saccharin. 



NEURITIS, NEURASTHENIA 



529 



For 



KEATING DIET, NO. Ill 

Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 117.1 gm. 
fat, 142.4 gm. ; carbohydrates, 124.8 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



MEASURE 



OZ. GM. I CAL. 



6 A.M.: 

Strong Beef Tea 



Breakfast : 8 A. M. 
Grapefruit E. P. x 
Hamburger Steak 



Milk 
Iron 


C Extract of malt. . . 
\ Citrate of iron. . . . 

[6 grains of quinine 
water 



Electricity : 10 A. M. 
Noon: 

Milk with extract of malt 

M. 



Dinner : 2 P. 

Broth 

Roast Lamb 

Spinach 

Asparagus 

( Lettuce 



Salad 

Cream Custard 2 

Coffee 



1 cup 



y 2 med. 

2 balls 

1^2 cup 

240 c.c. 

%, cup milk 

1 tbsp. extract 

of malt 
V2 glass 



Y% cup milk 
1 tbsp. extract 
of malt 



1 cup 

av, serving 
av. serving 
av. serving 
av. serving 



( Celery av. serving 

1 egg 
10 gm. cream 
1H cup 
240 c.c. 



Milk with extract of malt 

Iron water 

Supper: 6 P. M. 
Stewed prunes and cream 2 



V% cup milk 
1 tbsp. extract 

of malt 
Vi glass 



6 prunes and 2 
tbsp. juice 

Cream (40%) 2 \ 2 £sp. whip 

/ 2 tbsp. for tea 



6.0 



4.0 
4.0 
8.0 

11.4 



11.4 



6.0 
4.0 
4.0 
4.0 
2.0 
2.0 



8.0 
11.4 



2.0 



150.0 



100.0 
113.0 
226.0 

325.0 



325.0 



150.0 
100.0 
100.0 
100.0 
50.0 
50.0 



226.0 
325.6 



50.0 
50.0 



20.0 
496.0 



221.0 



221.0 



197.0 
20.0 
20.0 
12.0 
12.0 

156.0 



221.0 



44.0 
192.0 



1 Edible portion. 
-Sweeten with saccharin. 



530 DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 

KEATING DIET, NO. Ill CONTINUED 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 


MEASURE 


oz. 


CM. 


CAL. 


Bread 

Tea (weak) 

Butter 

Milk with extract of malt 

10 P. M.: 
Beef Soup 


( 1 slice 

1 3" x 2>y 2 " x y 2 " 

1 cup 

\ 7 A cup milk 
j 1 tbsp. extract 
[ of malt 

120 c.c. 


.7 

".7 

11.4 

.4 


20.0 

20.6 
325.0 

113.0 


50.0 

153.6 
221.0 

24.0 








2280.0 



The Weir-Mitchell Treatment 

The Weir-Mitchell Diet is recommended for more severe 
cases. This consists of absolute seclusion of the patient, 
preferably away from home, with a nurse entirely unknown 
to the patient, chosen by the physician for her qualities 
with special reference to the individual case. The nurse 
should be changed if she is a misfit with the patient. The 
patient is kept in bed during the treatment, which is from 
four to eight or more weeks. Massage and electricity are 
given daily in hour or hour and a half periods and feedings 
which are based on the following routine : 

Milk is the food of first importance with Mitchell, for he 
finds that on an exclusive milk diet for a few days the pa- 
tients lose their various digestive symptoms. When neuras- 
thenia is combined with obesity the Karell cure 1 for a fort- 
night or less is the best method of procedure, particularly 
in cases of extreme fatness accompanied by anemia. 
Skimmed milk given every two hours with or without lime 
water is especially recommended as being most favorable to 
dyspeptics. The milk should be sipped slowly and if dis- 
agreeable or nauseating may be flavored with tea, coffee, 

1 SeQ Karell Cure, page 515. 



NEURITIS, NEURASTHENIA 531 

caramel or salt. If the milk causes acidity the use of 
alkalies is indicated. At first 4 ounces are given every two 
hours and as the amount is increased the periods may be 
lengthened to three hours with a total of three quarts of milk 
daily. 

For the first few days the patients lose weight but after 
that remain stationary or even gain. Patients on this diet 
are usually sleepy after a few days. Constipation and coated 
tongue are usual and must be dealt with. Mitchell says that 
on a skimmed milk diet uric acid disappears almost entirely 
from the urine but reappears as soon as a mixed diet is be- 
gun. The addition of various farinaceous and milk prepara- 
tions to the milk diet such as malted milk and Nestle's Food 
are often useful. Ordinarily after 4 to 7 days a light break- 
fast is allowed, in another couple of days a chop is given as 
a midday dinner and again, in a day or two, bread and butter 
three times a day. After ten days it is usually possible to 
allow three full meals, together with three or four pints of 
milk given at or after meals instead of water. After ten 
days Mitchell also orders 2 to 4 oz. of a good fluid extract of 
malt before each meal. The foods actually used are selected 
largely according to the patient's wishes but butter in con- 
siderable amounts is urged and a cup of coffee or cocoa is 
allowed the first thing in the morning. 

At the end of the first week a raw meat soup is added, 
made as follows : 

One pound of rare beef chopped fine and put in a bottle 
with 1 pint of water and five drops of strong hydrochloric 
acid. This is allowed to stand over night on ice and in the 
morning the bottle is placed in water at uo° F. and kept for 
two hours at this temperature. It is then strained through a 
cloth under pressure and the resulting fluid given in divided 
doses three times during the day. A little more pleasant 
taste is obtained by first roasting the meat slightly on one 
side. When the patients are on full feedings, iron is given, 
also cod liver oil, either by mouth or rectum, in case there has 
been much loss of flesh. Under this regimen the increase of 



532 DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 

weight and well being is often extraordinary, but much de- 
pends upon the physician's attention to details and his abil- 
ity to carry the patient along psychologically. In other words, 
the same treatment will succeed in the hands of one man 
and not of another. One criticism that has been offered is 
that while the patients do gain they lose the additional fat 
very shortly after they are allowed up. This is not the case 
if the massage has been kept up vigorously and steadily, for 
this in conjunction with the electricity prevents the patients 
from getting "soft," the added weight being firm and sound. 

WEIR-MITCHELL DIET 

7 :00 A. M. Cocoa. Cold sponge with rough rub. 

8 :00 A. M. Breakfast with milk. Rest an hour afterward. 
10:00 A. M. Milk, 240 c.c. (8 oz.) peptonized. Massage. 

12 :00 Noon. Milk as soup. Reading aloud by nurse. 

1 :30 P. M. Dinner. Rest one hour afterward. 

3:30 P. M. Peptonized milk, 240 c.c. (8 oz.). 

4:00 P. M. Electricity. 

6:00 P. M. Supper with milk. 

8:00 P. M. Reading aloud by nurse for half an hour. 

9 :00 P. M. Light rub by nurse with drip sheet. 

10:00 P. M. Peptonized milk, 240 c.c. (8 oz.) with biscuit. 

During the night a glass of milk is needed. 

With dinner and supper give malt extract 240 c.c. (8 oz.). 

After each meal some tonic mixture with iron if anemia is present. 



NEURITIS, NEURASTHENIA 



533 



WEIR-MITCHELL DIET, NO. I 

For 1943.3 Calorics a Day: Approximate values — protein, 932 gm. ; 
fat, 116.4 gm. ; carbohydrate, 165.5 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



MEASURE 



GM. 



CAL. 



7 A. M. Cocoa 



Breakfast 
8 A. M. 



10 A. M. 
Noon 
Dinner : 
2 P. M. 



3 :30 P. M. 
Electricity 

4 P. M. 
Supper : 

6 P. M. 



Grapefruit 

Poached Egg 

Toast 

Butter 

Milk (hot) flavored 

with coffee 

Peptonized Milk 

Milk as Soup 

Broth 

Broiled Chicken 

Asparagus 

Peas 

Egg white colored pink 
beaten and flavored 
with strawberry 1 . . . 

Milk with extract of 

malt 

Peptonized Milk .... 



Salad 



Reading 

8 P. M. 
Rub 

9 P. M. 
10 P. M. 



Baked Apple 1 

Cream 

Lettuce, 30 gm. 

Beets, 30 gm.. . 

Bread 

Butter 

Milk with extract of 
malt 



Biscuit 

Peptonized Milk 



S 1 tsp. cocoa 
I 1 cup milk 

med. serving 

1 

1 slice 

1 tbsp. 

1 cup 
1 cup 
1 cup 

1 cup 
med. serving 
med. serving 
/4 cup 



med. serving 

W2 cup 
1 cup 



1 med. 

iy 2 tbsp. 

small serving 
1 beet 
1 slice 
1 tbsp. 



1^2 cup 



cup 



6.0 150.0 114.1 



4.0 100.0 
2.0 56.0 



19.8 
14.0 



6.0 150.0 

6.0 150.0 

6.0 150.0 

6.0 150.0 

5.0 130.0 

4.0 100.0 

3.0 85.0 



7 20.0 

17.1 492.0 
6.0 150.0 



2.0 
1.5 
1.0 

1.0 

.7 
.5 

17.1 



.7 
6.0 



70.0 

25.0 

38.0' 

30.0 

19.8 

14.0 

492.0 



20.0 
150.0 



20.0 

79.5 

32.1 

107.1 

92.0 
92.0 
92.0 



147.1 

20.0 
72.0 



10.4 

331.5 
92.0 



60.0 
96.0 
4.8 
10.0 
32.1 
107.1 

331.5 



49.0 
92.0 

1943.3 



'Sweeten with saccharin. 



534 DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



WEIR-MITCHELL DIET, NO. II 

For 2026.8 Calories a Day: Approximate values — protein, 107.3 gm. ; 
fat, 101.8 gm. ; carbohydrate, 166.9 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



MEASUFE 



0Z. GM. 



7 :00 A. M. 

Breakfast : 
8:00 A. M. 



10:00 A. M. 
Noon 
Dinner : 
2:00 P. M. 



3 :30 P. M. 
Electricity 

4:00 P. M. 
Supper : 

6:00 P. M. 



Reading 
8:00 P. 

Rub 
9:00 P. 

10:00 P. 



Cocoa 

Prunes 

Bacon (cooked) . . 
Eggwhite Omelette. 

Bread 

Milk (hot) 

Peptonized Milk . . . 
Milk as soup 

Broth 

Baked Halibut .... 

Cauliflower 

Lettuce 

Tomato Aspic 

( !Gel., 4 gm 

( Tomato, 46 gm. . 
Milk with extract of 

malt 

Butter 

Peptonized Milk . . . 



Baked Egg 

Spinach 

Bread 

Butter 

Milk with extract of 
malt 



Peptonized Milk 
Biscuit 



1 tsp. cocoa 
1 cup milk 



med. serving 

pieces 

tbsp. 

slice 

cup 

cup 

cup 



1 cup 
med. serving 
med. serving 

1 leaf 

2 tbsp. agar 
2 gm. 

med. serving 



\ l A cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 



1 egg 
med. serving 
1 slice 
1 tbsp. 



\ X /2 cup 



cup 



6.0 



2.0 
.5 
0.7 
.7 
6.0 
6.0 
6.0 

6.0 

4.0 
4.0 

.5 



2.0 



17.1 

.5 

6.0 



2.0 

4.0 

.7 

.5 

17.1 



6.0 
.7 



150.0 



50.0 

15.0 

20.0 

19.8 

150.0 

150.0 

150.0 

150.0 

100.0 

100.0 

20.0 



50.0 



492.0 

14.0 

150.0 



56.6 

100.0 

19.8 

20.0 

492.0 



150.0 
20.0 



1 Sweeten with saccharin. 



NEURITIS, NEURASTHENIA 



535 



WEIR-MITCHELL DIET, NO. Ill 

For 2054 Calorics a Day: Approximate values — protein, 98.1 gm. ; 
fat, 126.1 gm. ; carbohydrate, 146.0 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



MEASURE 



OZ. GM. 



CAL. 



7 A. M. Cocoa 

Breakfast : Orange E. P 

8 A. M. Omelette 

Milk (hot) 

10 A. M. Peptonized Milk 

Noon : Milk as Soup 

Dinner : 

2 P. M. Broth 

Lamb Chop Broil 

Spinach 

Butter 

Egg Custard 1 

Milk with extract of 
malt 

3 :30 P. M. Peptonized Milk 

Electricity 
4 P. M. 

Supper : 

6 P. M. Stewed Celery 

Bread 

Butter 

f Lettuce, 30 gm.. 
Salad <! Grapefruit, 
I 45 gm. 
Milk with extract of 
malt 

Reading 

8 P. M. 

Rub 

9 P. M. 

10 P. M. Peptonized Milk 

Biscuit 



1 tsp. cocoa 
1 cup milk 

1 med. 

1 egg 
egg white, 
19 gm. 
cup 

cup 

cup 



6.0 


150.0 


2.0 


60.0 


3.0 


60.0 



6.0 ( 150.0 
6.0 ' 150.0 
6.0 150.0 



1 cup 
1 med. chop 
med. serving 
1 tbsp. 


1 


?gg 


1H 


cup 


1 


cup 


med. serving 
1 slice 


1 tbsp. 
med. serving 


iy 2 


cup 


i 
i 


cup 



6.0 
3.0 
4.0 
.5 
2.0 

17.1 
6.0 



17.1 



150.0 
85.0 

100.0 
14.0 
56.0 

492.0 
150.0 



4.0 100.0 
.7! 19.8 
.5 14.0 

2.6 7.5 



492.0 



150.0 
20.0 



114.1 
28.1 



89.9 
92.0 

92.0 

92.0 



275.0 
20.0 

107.1 
79.5 

331.5 
92.0 



160 

32.1 

107.1 

13.0 



331.5 



92.0 
49.0 

2053.9 



Sweeten with saccharin. 



536 DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 

Epilepsy 

Most authorities agree that a restriction of meat proteins 
is of importance in the diet of epileptic patients. This tends 
to reduce intestinal putrefaction. Some advise a salt-poor 
diet. Concklin of Battle Creek, Michigan, has tried a starva- 
tion treatment with some success. The patient is put to bed 
and kept without food for 10 to 14 days, water only being 
allowed. After this period there is a very gradual working 
hack to a normal diet. 

Insomnia 

Make the entire day's dietary of the simplest food. Avoid 
anything that would be likely to cause indigestion. Let the 
midday meal be the heaviest. It often induces sleep to sip a 
glass of hot milk at bed-time. Malted milk may be used if 
preferred. If one is in the habit of waking in the night and 
lying awake have a glass of milk or cocoa, crackers or a 
sandwich convenient. If this is taken immediately on waking 
sleep will often come almost at once. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 
NERVOUS DISORDERS 

1. Can neuritis be benefited by diet? How? 

2. What are the essentials in treatment of neurasthenia? 

3. What diet systems are used? Describe each. 

4. How may epilepsy be benefited by dietetic treatment? Insomnia? 



CHAPTER XXIV 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE SKIN 1 

The Influence of Diet in Skin Affections. 2 — There is no 
doubt whatever that the majority of cutaneous disorders are 
greatly influenced by diet and depend upon the state of the 
alimentary canal for their development and maintenance. It 
must be borne in mind that we can only lay down certain 
general principles in this connection since different people 
differ so extraordinarily in their susceptibilities. One in- 
dividual cannot take eggs in any shape or form without feel- 
ing ill, another develops a rash after eating strawberries, a 
third suffers from severe cutaneous irritation after drinking 
coffee. 

Apart from these instances of idiosyncrasy, which are com- 
paratively rare, it is well known that certain articles of food 
aggravate most acute diseases of the skin. Too much salt 
is bad in eczema and an excess of sugar is likewise harmful. 
Similarly, highly seasoned dishes, spices and sauces must be 
avoided. 

We might classify articles of food into three main groups: 
i. Those that may produce skin-rashes in sensitive indi- 
viduals with apparently healthy skin, such as crab,, 
lobster, mussels, eels, pork, strawberries, rhubarb, 
honey, alcoholic liquors, mushrooms, cucumbers,, 
parsley, oatmeal and pickles. All these are forbidden, 
in all skin diseases except those due to parasites, in; 
which the patient is perfectly well in other ways. 
2. Those which it is safer to avoid when in doubt as to 

/Arranged under the supervision of Dr. B. Franklin Stahl, Clinical Professor 
of Aledicine, Women's Medical College of Pennsylvania. Visiting Physician to- 
the St. Agnes and Philadelphia General Hospital, Philadelphia, Pai 

2 G. Norman Meachen, M.D. "Skin Diseases: Their Nursing and. General 
Management," London, The Scientic Press, Limited. 

537 



538 DISEASES OF THE SKIN 

what to give in a skin case, such as salt meat, pastry, 
sweet puddings, coffee and cocoa. 
3. Those which must not be given to a skin patient be- 
cause of some associated constitutional disorder which 
is keeping up the skin trouble. Thus, gouty cases must 
not have much meat, cheese or any highly seasoned 
dish ; dyspeptic patients must not take strong tea, ex- 
cess of potatoes, farinaceous food or anything that is 
likely to set up gastric fermentation ; diabetics are for- 
bidden sugar, much milk and all sweetened dishes and 
wines. Saccharin, however, may be used instead of 
sugar for sweetening purposes. 
Except in the case of diabetics, in which a strict diet is 
one of the essential points in treatment, a rigid adherence to 
a prescribed diet-table is not always absolutely necessary. 
Indeed, the deprivation of an accustomed article of food may 
do as much harm as its continuance in nervous, fretful in- 
dividuals. The risk that is run by partaking of a prohibited 
dish should be fully and simply stated to the patient and if 
he persists in gratifying his palate at the expense of his skin 
he alone is responsible. Only those, however, who have been 
subjected to great restriction in the matter of diet, especially 
when they are not feeling bodily ill, can understand the pain- 
ful longing which is experienced sooner or later for ''one 
bite" of a forbidden fruit which it is felt could not do any 
possible harm. The gratification of such a wish expressed by 
a skin patient should not be instantly refused by the nurse 
without a word of explanation and a silent resplve to ask 
the doctor about it at his next visit. 

The General Condition and Habits of Life 1 of the pa- 
tient should always be taken into consideration in the matter 
of diet. An ill-nourished child with scrofulous tendencies 
requires plenty of milk, eggs and butter, whereas a plethoric 
individual who leads a "fast" life will do better on a simple 
diet which does not contain any foodstuff to excess. 

1 G. Norman Meachen, M.D., "Skin Diseases: Their Nursing and General 
Management," London, The Scientific Press, Limited. 



ECZEMA 539 

With regard to Malt-Liquors and Alcoholic Stimulants 
generally, it may be stated at once that, as a general rule, 
they are quite unnecessary in skin diseases and further, that 
their habitual use even in a moderate degree is frequently 
responsible for the appearance and continuation of a cu- 
taneous eruption. 

Eczema 

This disease of the skin lends itself very favorably to 
dietetic treatment as its cause may often be traced to one's 
eating habits. It may result from too much, too little, or too 
rich food while certain proteins may cause reactions in indi- 
vidual cases, particularly in infants, resulting in skin erup- 
tion. The treatment of course must be guided by the cause. 

Acute Eczema calls for a very simple diet. An exclusive 
milk diet is sometimes used for a time, or milk with cereals, 
bread and butter and green vegetables. The Bulkley rice 
diet is used with success. Its use is based on the theory that 
the acute form of eczema may be due to a retention of nitro- 
gen waste products and this diet, very low in protein, per- 
mits the complete elimination of all these products. 

BULKLEY RICE BREAD BUTTER AND WATER DIET 1 

The patient lives exclusively on rice. The rice should be thoroughly 
cooked in water, not milk. It is generally better to dry it out some- 
what by .leaving it uncovered on the fire for a few minutes. 

The rice should be freshly prepared with abundance of butter and 
salt. It should be eaten slowly with a fork and perfectly masticated. 
The bread and butter also should be well chewed to secure the full 
action of the saliva. 

Water, hot or cold, not iced, may be taken freely but should not be 
used to wash down the food. 

This diet should be continued for five days, when an ordinary mixed 
diet may be gradually resumed. 

Chronic Eczema usually results from a diet injudicious 
in amount or kind — too much, too little or too rich. 

An adequate amount of easily digested food should be 
taken and such articles as spices, condiments, rich pastries 
and desserts, fried foods, pork and alcohol should be avoided. 

bulkley, "Diet and Hygiene in Diseases of the Skin." 



540 DISEASES OF THE SKIN 

Eczema in nursing infants is not uncommon. It usu- 
ally results from too much food or a reaction against the fat 
or protein of the milk. Less food for the over-nourished 
may bring about a cure. A careful regulation of the mother's 
diet may also be beneficial. When there is indigestion from 
fat or protein, artificial feeding, for a time at least, may be 
necessary, as in that way one or the other or both may be 
restricted. 

Skin Tests. — Eczema may be due to certain proteins to 
which the individual is especially susceptible. Tests are 
made to observe the skin reaction in different proteins and 
the offending ones or those giving positive skin reactions are 
eliminated from the diet. 

Acne Rosacea. — Characterized by an abnormal flushing 
of the face and is very often associated with excessive acidity 
of the stomach. It is frequently seen also in those who make 
liberal use of alcohol. Intestinal putrefaction may be a con- 
tributing cause of the disorder. The diet should exclude 
alcohol, hot drinks and soups and all the rich foods listed as 
those to be avoided. As in cases of eczema, plenty of fresh 
air, exercise and water drinking is recommended. 

Acne Vulgaris while differing in its cause, calls for 
practically the same dietetic treatment for from four to six 
weeks, from 2 to 3 quarts of milk being given in a day. It 
may be diluted with soda water, White Rock or Vichy. 

Psoriasis 

Type of Diet. — Low protein diet. 

Dietetic Treatment. — This disease is marked by nitrogen 
retention and patients benefit by restriction of protein. A 
diet containing not more than 45 or 50 grams is recom- 
mended. The following diets have been used to advantage : 



PSORIASIS 



54i 



LOW PROTEIN DIET IN PSORIASIS NO. I 

For 1929 Calories a Day: Approximate values— Total nitrogen in 
food, 8.83 gm. = 55 gm. protein ; fat, 77.9 gm. ; carbohydrate, 252 gm. 





w 




1 




W 




PS 




S5 ' 




H 


SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 


.p 

i 

3 


< 


W 


< 


u « 



Breakfast : 
Watermelon 

Oatmeal 

Egg 

Bread (toasted) . 

Butter 

Cream (average) 

Sugar 

Coffee 

Luncheon : 

Baked Salmon . . 
White Potato . . . 

Spinach 

Celery hearts . . . 

Bread 

Butter 

Sugar 

Prune Souffle \ 
Yz cup prunes \ . . 
1 egg white J 

Cream 

Coffee or tea 

Dinner : 

Roast Veal 

Beets (cooked) . 
String Beans . . . 

Lettuce 

Vinegar 

Bread 

Butter 

Sugar 

Apple Tapioca . . 

Cream 

Coffee or tea . . . . 






V2 cup 
1 

2 thin slices 

1 tbsp. 

2V 2 tbsp. 

2 2 A tsp. 



1 serving 
1 very large 

y 2 cup 

1 heart 

1 thin slice 
scant l / 2 tbsp. 

2 tsp. 

% cup 
W2 tbsp. 



1 serving 
Yz cup sliced 
Y A cup 

4 leaves 

1 thin slice 
Yz tbsp. 

2 tsp. 

3 tbsp. 

iy 2 tbsp. 



100 
100 

30 

16 

50 
40 



150 
100 
50 
15 
16 
30 

"85 

'30 



1.0 

2.8 
7.5 
3.0 

1.5 



55 10.0 



3.0 

2.0 

.5 

1.5 



3.3 
".9 



15 
10 
30 
100 
50 



1.5 



.5 
5.5 

.3 
13.3 
10.0 



7.1 



.2 
13.6 



.6 
6.6 



49 10.3 1.9 
100 2.0 
100 2.0 

50 .5 



.2 
8.5 

"l 
10.0 



7.0 
11.5 

16.5 

2.5 
40.0 



27.0 
3.0 
1.5 

8.2 

30.6 

18.9 

1.5 



7.0 
7.0 
1.5 

8.2 

30.6 
28.2 

2.5 



55.0 77.9 252.0 



542 



DISEASES OF THE SKIN 



LOW PROTEIN DIET IN PSORIASIS NO. II 

For 2057 Calories a Day: Approximate values — Total nitrogen in 
food, 7.31 gm. = 45 gm. protein; fat, 93.8 gm. ; carbohydrate, 254 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



Breakfast: 

Farina 

Halibut 

Orange (edible portion) . . 

Bread 

Butter 

Sugar 

Cream 

Coffee 

Luncheon : 

f Hard-cooked egg 

Salad \ Lettuce 

[ Fresh tomato .... 

Oil 

Asparagus 

Butter 

f Grapefruit 

Assert g-f- ;;;;;;;; 

[Sugar 

Cream 

Bread 

Sugar 

Coffee or tea 

Dinner : 
Lamb chop (broiled with 

bone) 

Baked white potato 

Stewed celery 

Bread 

Butter 

Stewed strawberries 

Sugar 

Cream 

Coffee or tea 



6 2 / 3 tbsp. 

very small serving 

2 oranges 

1 thin slice 

V/z tbsp. 

2^ tsp. 

\y 2 tbsp. 



i 

2 or 3 leaves 
1 small 
V 3 tbsp. 
4 stalks 



sections 



i A 



2 orange 

2 tsp. 

\y 2 tbsp. 

1 thin slice 

VA tsp. 



H 



small 

very large 

cup 

thin slice 

tbsp. 

cup 

tsp. 

tbsp. 



100 
50 

200 
15 
20 
38 
30 



30 

100 

5 

100 

22 

100 

50 

50 

30 

30 

15 

20 



52 

150 

100 

15 

15 

100 

30 

30 



1.6 

9.0 
2.0 
1.5 



7.5 

.3 

1.0 

2.6 



.5 
.5 

".9 
1.5 



9.4 
3.0 
1.0 
1.5 



1.5 

"i 

17.0 
6.6 



5.5 

5.6 

18.4 

".6 

6.6 

.2 



14.5 



.2 
12.7 



6.0 



45.0 93.8 254.0 



PSORIASIS 543 

LOW PROTEIN DIET IN PSORIASIS XO. Ill 



For 2065 Calories a Day: Approximate values — Total nitrogen in 
food, 7.63 gm. = 47 gm. protein; fat, 91.4 gm. ; carbohydrate, 265 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 






Breakfast : 

Grapefruit 

Egg 

Bread (toasted) .. 

Butter 

Sugar 

Cream 

Coffee 

Luncheon : 

Flounder 

Cauliflower 

| Lettuce 

I Tomato 

Vinegar 

Oil 

Bread 

Butter 

Sugar 

Cream 

Orange Ice 

Coffee or tea 

Dinner : 

Broiled Chicken . . . 
Baked Sweet Potato 

Lettuce 

Cucumber 

Vinegar 

Bread 

Butter 

Baked Apple 

Cream 

Sugar 

Coffee or tea 



1 

1 thin slice 
l 2 A tbsp. 

2 tsp. 
3V 2 tbsp. 



small serving 
large serving 
2 leaves 
1 small 

x /l tbsp. 
1 thin slice 
l 2 A tbsp. 

2 A tsp. 

1 tbsp. 
H cup 



1 serving 
1 small 
1 large leaf 
few slices 



1 
V/ 3 

W 

2 



Wz tsp. 



thin slice 
tbsp. 
apple 
tbsp. 



200 

"is 

25 
•30 
50 



65 
100 

30 
150 

"5 
15 

25 

10 

20 

100 



102 

129 

20 

50 

is 

20 

200 

20 

20 



7.5 
1.5 



1.5 



13.3 

2.5 
.2 

.5 

V.5 

2.6 
.6 



5.5 

.2 

21.2 

10.0 



5.0 

.2 

21.2 

4.6 



1.0 
1.2 



.2 

17.0 

4.6 



47.0 91.4 264.0 



10.0 

8.2 

30*6 
2.5 



6.0 

.9 

6.0 



8.2 

100 
1.0 

74.6 



35.3 

.6 

1.5 

*8.2 

40.6 

1.0 
20.0 



544 DISEASES OF THE SKIN 

Urticaria 

Dietetic Treatment. — Many attacks of urticaria, hives and 
nettlerash may be traced to certain articles of diet. Shellfish, 
particularly if not fresh, may be the cause. Strawberries 
with some individuals produce a rash of this type. Obvi- 
ously if the offending article be discovered it should be 
eliminated from the diet. One of the essentials of the treat- 
ment is to keep the bowels clear. It may be best to use a milk 
diet, diluted if necessary with lime water or Vichy, until the 
urticaria has disappeared. 

Furunculosis — Boils 

Dietetic Treatment. — A full nourishing diet of simple, 
well-prepared food. As in other skin affections avoid the use 
of all rich foods. The trouble may result from special food 
which disagrees with the individual, it may be due to a gen- 
eral undernourished condition, or it may be caused by an 
infecting organism from without. 

Food Combinations and Menus 

DIET IN SKIN DISEASES 1 

(low protein diet) 

first day 

Breakfast: 4 ounces rice, 3 ounces corn bread, \% ounces butter, 

*/2 ounce sugar, hot water. 
Dinner : 5 ounces vegetable soup, 3 ounces baked potatoes, 3 ounces 
stewed celery, 1 ounce graham bread, 1% ounces butter, 1 fresh 
apple. 
Supper: 4 ounces rolled oats, 2 ounces white bread, 1% ounces butter, 
4 ounces stewed prunes, % ounce sugar, very weak tea. 

SECOND DAY 

Breakfast : Orange, 4 ounces hominy, 2 ounces graham toast, 

1% ounces butter, x / 2 ounce sugar, Postum. 
Dinner : 5 ounces pea soup. 3 ounces macaroni, 3 ounces string beans, 

3 ounces carrot, 2 ounces bread, V/4 ounces butter. 
Supper: 4 ounces cream of wheat, 2 ounces graham toast, 1% ounces 

baked apple, 2 ounces crackers, 1% ounces butter, % ounce sugar, 

very weak tea. 

x Diet used at the New York Skin and Cancer Hospital, New York, 1922. 



URTICARIA, FURUNCULOSIS 545 



THIRD DAY 

Breakfast: Banana, 4 ounces Pettijohn, 2 ounces white bread, 

\y ounces butter, y 2 ounce sugar, hot water. 
Dinner : 5 ounces corn soup, 3 ounces baked potato, 3 ounces spinach, 

3 ounces boiled onion, 2 ounces bread, \y ounces butter, raisins. 
Supper : 4 ounces farina, 4 ounces stewed figs, 2 ounces graham 

cracker, \y 2 ounces butter, % ounce sugar, very weak tea. 

FOURTH DAY 

Breakfast: Raw apple, 4 ounces cornmeal mush, 2 ounces graham 

bread, 1%. ounces butter, y 2 ounce sugar, Postum. 
Dinner : 5 ounces vegetable soup, 4 ounces baked beans, 3 ounces 

cauliflower, 3 ounces asparagus, 2 ounces bread, % ounce butter, 

orange. 
Supper : 4 ounces rice, 4 ounces stewed prunes, 2 ounces graham 

cracker, 1% ounces butter, y ounce sugar, very weak tea. 

FIFTH DAY 

Breakfast : Orange, 4 ounces cracked wheat. 3 ounces corn muffins, 

\y ounces butter, y 2 ounce sugar, hot water. 
Dinner : 5 ounces sago soup, 4 ounces spaghetti. 3 ounces lima beans, 

3 ounces boiled onions, \% ounces butter, dates. 
Supper: 4 ounces cream of wheat, sliced orange, 2 ounces oatmeal 

crackers, 1% ounces butter, % ounce sugar, very weak tea. 

sixth DAY 

Breakfast: 4 ounces samp, 2 ounces graham toast, iy ounces butter, 
y ounce sugar, Postum. 

Dinner : 5 ounces celery soup, 4 ounces baked potatoes. 3 ounces car- 
rots, 3 ounces spinach, iy ounces butter, 2 ounces bread. 

Supper : 4 ounces wheatena, 4 ounces stewed figs, 2 ounces Uneeda 
Biscuit, iy ounces butter, y ounce sugar, very weak tea. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 
SKIN DISEASES 

1. Discuss the influence of diet upon skin diseases. 

2. Should alcohol be permitted in the diet? 

3. Give the general principle of the Bulkley rice diet. For what 
condition is it used? 

4. When eczema occurs in nursing infants, what may be the cause 
and how should it be treated? 

5. Discuss the dietetic treatment of acne, of psoriasis, urticaria and 
furunculosis. 



CHAPTER XXV 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 1 

Anemia 

The anemias are usually divided into two general classes, 
primary and secondary anemias. By secondary anemias we 
mean an anemia associated with or following some other 
disease of known origin. Chlorosis and pernicious anemia 
are classed as primary. In such cases there is some ab- 
normality of the blood or the blood-forming organs, the 
causes for which are not well understood. 

Chlorisis. — In the treatment of chlorosis rest plays an 
important part. In severe cases rest in bed is essential. 
Medicinal iron is usually given and seems to have a favor- 
able effect on the return of the blood picture to normal. 

The dietetic treatment of chlorosis should be based on 
the conditions present. The percentage of iron in the 
blood is below normal, resulting from a deficient supply of 
this element in food. Gastro-intestinal disturbances are 
common. Constipation usually accompanies chlorosis and 
intestinal putrefaction should be guarded against. 

The diet then should contain iron-rich foods 2 — vegetables, 
especially spinach, chard, beans and potatoes, tgg yolk, lean 
meat and fruits, such as oranges, apples, etc. ; it should be 
laxative (see diets for constipation) and it should be easily 
digested. Clinical experience seems to show that a liberal 
supply of protein is desirable in the diet. 

When digestion is seriously disturbed it may be necessary 

Arranged under the supervision of Dr. B. Franklin Stahl, Clinical Professor 
of Medicine, Women's Medical College of Pennsylvania. Visiting Physician to 
the St. Agnes and the Philadelphia General Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa. 

2 See page 26. 

546 



ANEMIA 547 

to put the patient on a diet consisting mainly of milk and 
eggs until the condition is improved. 

When digestive conditions permit the diet should be 
normal and well-balanced with emphasis on the iron content 
and the laxative elements. 

Pernicious Anemia. — Very little can be said concern- 
ing the diet in pernicious anemia as our knowledge of the 
underlying causes of the condition is too limited. There is 
often a decrease in the secretion of acid in the stomach and 
hydrochloric acid and pepsin are sometimes supplied 
medicinally. 

The diet should be such as will keep the nutrition of 
the patient at the best level possible. This means a simple, 
nourishing diet in which the protein is kept fairly low and 
carbohydrates predominate. It is desirable to give iron- 
containing foods a prominent place in the diet but because 
of the deficient gastric secretion meat should be used in mod- 
eration and vegetables and fruits should supply the larger 
portion of the iron needed. Many authorities recommend 
the feeding of bone marrow. 

Secondary Anemia. — The treatment of this condition 
aims at the removal of the underlying cause and the use as 
far as possible of the foods recommended for chlorosis. 



548 



DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 



Food Combinations and Menus 

(diets rich in mineral salts, as iron and calcium 1 ) 

Sutherland's semi-fluid anemia diet (chlorosis) no. i 



For 1844 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 
fat, 96.4 gm. ; carbohydrate, 155.6 gm. 



.52 gm. 











CAL- 


SCHEDULE of 


FEEDING 


MEASURE 


OUNCES 


ORIES 


4-00 A M. 


Milk 


1%. cups 

V/ 8 CUpS 

1" slice 


10 


196 


8 00 A M 


Milk 


15. 
1.38 


294 




Bread 


100 


11.00 A. M. 


Egg Flip 


f 154 cups 
\ milk 
U egg 
(V/ 8 cups 


10 
15 


266 


1 :00 P. M. 


Milk Pudding . . . 


milk 
1 l / 2 tbsp. 








[ flour 


Va 


319 


3 :00 P. M. 


Malted Milk 


\2 tbsp. 
\ 1% cups 
{ milk 

f 1% cups 


10 


262 


5:30 P. M. 


Milk Pudding . . . 


milk 
1 Va tbsp. 
[ flour 


10 


211 


8:00 P. M. 


Milk 


l J /i cups 


10 


196 
1844 



For list of foods, see pages 25 and 26. 






ANEMIA 



549 



Sutherland's light anemia diet (chlorosis) no. ii 

For 2667 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 115.29 gm. 
fat, 150.94 gm. ; carbohydrate, 211.9 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 

4 :00 A. M. Milk 

8:00 A. M. Milk (flavored 

with tea) . . . 

Bread 

Butter 

White fish 

White sauce . . . 

11:00 A. M. Malted Milk .. 

1 :00 P. M. Chicken Soup . . 

Rice 

Bread 

Potatoes 

Spinach 

Milk Pudding . . 

5:30 P. M. Milk (flavored 
with tea) 
Bread 

Butter 

Egg 

8 :00 ?. M. Milk 

Cream (daily) . 



MEASURE 



OUNCES 



CAL- 
ORIES 



1% cups 

1% cups 
3 slices 
y 2 " thick 
y 2 tbsp. 

1 slice 
4"x2^"xl" 

Va cup 

S 2 tbsp. 
1 1% cups 

I Va cup 
1 broth 

2 thin 
slices 

y 2 med. 

2 tbsp. 
cooked 

\V/a cups 
\ milk 

L flour 

1% cups 

3 slices 
y 2 " thick 



tbsp. 



ly cups 

1% cups 



10 

10 

2 

% 

4 
2 

10 

6 
3 

1 
2 



10 

0.15 



K) 



Ya 
1.87 

10 
10 



196.0 

196.0 

146.8 
54.0 

137.6 

72.5 

262.0 



50.9 

73.4 
47.2 

6.8 

211.0 

196.0 

146.8 
54.0 
70.0 

196.0 
550.0 

2667.0 



55o 



DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 



Sutherland's full anemia diet (chlorosis) no. hi 

For 3210 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 160.58 gm. ; 
fat, 154.7 gm. ; carbohydrate, 293.9 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 

4:00 A. M. Milk 

8:00 A. M. Milk (flavored 

with tea) 

Bread 

Butter 

Egg 

11:00 A. M. Malted Milk... 
With milk 

1 :00 P. M. Soup 

Meat (boiled or 

roasted) 

Bread 

Potato 

Milk Pudding . . 

5:00 P. M. Milk (flavored 

with tea) 

Bread 

Butter 

White fish 

8:00 P. M. Milk 

Cream (daily) . . . 



MEASURE 



OUNCES 



CAL- 
ORIES 



1% cups 

1% cups 

3 slices 

1" thick 

y 2 tbsp. 

1 

2 tbsp. 
1% cups 
1% cups 



3 slices 

y 2 " thick 

y 2 med. 

\y cups 

milk 

flour 



1% cups 
3 slices 
1" thick 

y 2 tbsp. 

1 slice 
4"x2K"xl' 

iy cups 
ly cups 



1.87 



10 

10 

6 

2 



10 

0.15 

10 

4 



10 
10 



196.0 

196.0 
293.6 

54.0 
70.0 

262.0 
50.8 

255.2 
146.8 

47.2 



211.0 

196.0 
293.6 

54.0 
137.6 



196.0 

550.0 

3209.8 



ANEMIA 



55i 



VON NOORDEN S DIET IN ANEMIA 

For 2054 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 90.47 gm. 
fat, 83.09 gm. ; carbohydrate, 225.02 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



o a 



Breakfast 



10 A. M. 



Luncheon 



Sirloin Steak minced on 

toast 

Toast (bread) 

Tea 

Cream (thin) 

Sugar 

Eggs poached 

Toast (bread) 

Butter 

Milk and 

Sherry 



Small serving 3.00 



slices 



1 tsp. 

y 2 tsp. 

2 

1 slice 

l A tbsp. 

1 glass 



tbsp. 



Sirloin Steak 

Potato, baked 

Asparagus on toast 



Small 
1 



serving 



serving, i.e. 



4 P. 



Bread 

Butter 

Prune Souffle 

M. Sliced Orange 
Zwieback 



(about 

stalks) 

slice 

tbsp. 



% cup 



Supper : Cream Toast 



Bedtime 



Bread 

Butter 

Apple Sauce 

Milk 



1 
1 

1 

3 pieces 

3y 4 "xy 2 " x v/ 4 " 

\Vo slice and 

sauce 
1 slice 

y 2 tbsp. 

H cup 

1 glass 



1.50 

'.22 

.07 

4.80 
.75 
.23 

5.10 
.50 

3.00 
5.27 
6.80 



.75 

.46 

2.70 

9.50 



4.40 
.75 
.23 

3.50 

5.10 



18.10 
3.50 

".08 

12.50 

1.80 

.06 

4.76 



18.10 
2.69 
4.87 



1.80 

.13 

4.75 

1.61 
2.26 



6.50 

1.80 

.06 



4.76 



160 
100 

' 23 
8.3 

140 

50 

50 

100 

13 

160 

100 
150 



50 
100 
150 

100 
100 



200 
50 
50 

100 

100 



2054.3 



552 



DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 



ANEMIC DIET 
Boston City Hospital 

For 2036.8 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 83.42 gm. ; 
fat, 85.35 gm. ; carbohydrate, 236.71 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



H S O 

o a -J 

8 s < 



Breakfast : 



Dinner 



Supper : 



Shredded Wheat | 1 

Egg 1 

Bread 1 slice 

Butter 1 pat 

Milk Vz cup 

Coffee 

Cream 1 tsp. 

Sugar Vi tsp. 



Sirloin Steak (lean) 



Small 
serving 



Potato (baked) 1 

String beans Vi cup 

Lettuce and Very small 

Tomato Salad serving 

Bread 1 slice 

Butter 1 pat 

Milk Va cup 

Rice Pudding % cup 

Corn flakes 8 tbsp. 

Banana 1 

Milk Vi cup 

Hamburg Steak Cake 2^" 

diam. and 
%" thick 

Spinach l A cup 

Bread 1 slice 

Butter 1 pat 

Cocoa 1 large 

cup 

Angel Cake 1 serving 



.90 


3.25 


2.40 


6.25 


.75 


1.80 


.46 


.13 


4.00 


3.76 


.22 


.08 


.07 


.08 


3.174 


18.10 


(90 




gm.) 




5.27 


2.69 


2.00 


1.30 


2.70 


.75 


.75 


1.80 


.46 


.13 


2.00 


1.88 


2.25 


4.00 


.60 


1.20 


5.50 


3.24 


4.00 


3.76 


2.00 


13.25 


4.25 


1.87 


.75 


1.80 


.46 


.13 


0.00 


7.00 


1.70 


5.25 



100 

70 

50 
100 

78.4 

23 



160 



100 
23 

100 

50 
100 

39.2 
150 

60 
100 
78.4 



100 

21.5 

50 
100 

200 
175 

2036.8. 



ANEMIA 



553 



For 1834 Calorics 
fat, ! 



ANEMIC TEST DIET 
Boston City Hospital 
a Day: Approximate value — protein, 59.10 gm. 
'0.12 gm. ; carbohydrate, 224.48 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



Mm « 



Breakfast 



Dinner : 



Supper 



Orange I ] 

Shredded Wheat 

Egg 1 

Bread 1 

Butter 

Cream (thin) J/4 

Sirloin Steak (lean) . . very small 
serving 

Potato, baked 1 

Spinach Y\ cup 

Bread 1 slice 

Butter y 2 tbsp 

Prune Souffle % cup 

Cream J4 cup 

Lemonade -1 glass 

Rice, steamed Y% cup 

Bread 1 slice 

Butter y 2 tbsp 

Apple Sauce Y% cup 

Cream J4 pint 

Gingerbread 1 serving 

Buttermilk glass 




QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 

Anemia 

1. What are some of the commonly known anemic conditions? 

2. What is the main point to consider in arranging the diet for an 
anemic patient? 

3. How may this be met by food ? 

4. What complications may influence the selection of food? 

5. Can pernicious anemia be benefited by diet? 

6. What foods would you select? 

7. Give points on administration of diet for chlorosis. 



CHAPTER XXVI 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE ENDOCRINE 
SYSTEM 1 

Goitre 

Cases of exophthalmic goitre may be toxic or neurogenic 
in their origin. In the former, gastro-intestinal disorders are 
very often considered the cause and diet, of course, can play 
a very efficient part in this treatment. Proper diet may also 
help very materially in the treatment of the second type. 

Food Needs. — Under-nourishment characterizes almost all 
cases. The excessive thyroid secretion stimulates metabolism 
so that food requirement in other cases is increased much 
the same as in fever patients. The caloric value of the diet 
may be increased advantageously from 25% to 50%. 

Type of Diet. — High calory. Low protein. Proteins ap- 
pear to have a stimulating effect upon the thyroid secretion 
as do also foods containing iodine. The protein contents of 
the diet should be kept low, not over 70 gms. to 75 gms. per 
day, and iodine-bearing foods should be excluded. Foods 
which tend to induce intestinal putrefaction, such as meat 
protein and shell fish, should be restricted or avoided. Stimu- 
lating foods and drinks should also be avoided. 

Kinds of Food to Use: 

Beverages Milk. 

Eggs One or two eggs a day. 

Fish Non-oily except codfish. 

Chicken Fowl occasionally. 

Cheese Cheese occasionally. 

Vegetables .... Potatoes, corn, string beans, celery, onions, pumpkin, 
white beans. 

1 Arranged under the supervision of Dr. B. Franklin Stahl, Clinical Professor 
of Medicine, Women's Medical College of Pennsylvania, Visiting Physician to 
the St. Agnes and Philadelphia General Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa. 

554 



GOITRE 



555 



Starchy Foods. .Bread and most of the farinaceous foods except oat- 
meal. 

Sugar Sugar may be given rather plentifully unless glyco- 
suria appears. 

Fruits Cooked fruits except raspberries and strawberries. 

Foods to Avoid: 

Cereals Oatmeal. 

Fish Oily or dark flesh fish and codfish. 

Meat Meats are excluded. 

Vegetables Asparagus, beets, beans, spinach, carrots, peas, toma- 
toes, turnips. 

Fruits Raspberries and strawberries. 

Beverages Coffee, tea. 



DIET FOR GOITRE, NO. I 
For 2775 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 84 gm. 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



MEASURE 



GM, 



I CAL- 
ORIES 



Breakfast : 



Orange .... 

Farina 

Egg 

Toast 

Butter 

Cream 18% 
Sugar 



Lunch : 
10 A. M. 



Dinner 



Lactose lemonade 

Sandwich , 

Bread 

Butter , 



Cream of celery 
soup with heavy 
cream 

Halibut steak 

Baked potato 

Butter and string- 
beans 

Bread 

Butter 




270 
115 

'76 

15 

180 

15 



148 

38 
4 

102 



38 
170 
127 

64 
76 
60 



100 

66 

70 

100 

109 

108 

52 



200 

50 

25 

100 



138 
200 
150 

55 
100 
218 






556 DISEASES OF THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM 



DIET FOR GOITRE, NO. I CONTINUED 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 

Dressed lettuce . . . 
French dressing . . . 
Lemon ice 

Lunch : 

3 P. M. Buttermilk 

Saltines 

Supper : 

Omelet 

Creamed potatoes . . 

Bread 

Butter 

Stewed peaches . . . 

Cookies 



MEASURE 



GM. 



CAL- 
ORIES 



3 leaves 

\y 2 tbsp. 

V2 cup 



cup 



1 egg 
V2 cup 

2 slices 

1 tbsp. 

2 halves 
with juice 

2 



30 
14 

85 

240 
11 

25 
39 
76 
15 
212 

255 



6 
100 
100 



50 



103 
125 
100 
109 
92 

61 

2775 



DIET FOR GOITRE, NO. II 
For 3039 Calories a Day: Approximate value — protein, 75 gm. 







| 




CAL- 


SCHEDULE 


OF FEEDING 


MEASURE 


GM. 


ORIES 


Breakfast 












Baked apple 


1 large 


130 


200 




Steamed rice 


y A cup 


113 


100 




Bacon 


3 slices 


10 


75 




Egg 


1 




70 




Muffins 


2 


85 


150 




Butter 


\y 2 tbsp. 


22 


163 




Cream (thin) 


V2 cup 


113 


220 


Lunch : 
10 A. M. 


Orangeade 










Orange juice 


Vz CUP 


113 


52 




Water 


Vi cup 








Lemon juice 


3 tbsp. 


42 


17 




Gran, sugar 


1 tbsp. 


15 


52 




Lactose 


2 tbsp. 


20 


80 




Saltines 


3 


11 


50 









GOITRE 

DIET FOR GOITRE, NO. II — CONTINUED 



557 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



MEASURE 



GM. 



I CAL- 
ORIES 



Dinner : 



Lunch : 
3 P. M. 



Supper : 



Cream of corn soup 

with 
Cream (heavy) . 
Breast of chicken 
Mashed potatoes 
Creamed onions 

Lettuce 

French dressing 

Bread 

Butter 

Tapioca cream 

Buttermilk 

Lactose 

Saltines 



Macaroni with 
cheese 

Fruit salad — 

Lettuce 

Orange 

Malaga grapes . 

Pineapple 

French dressing 

Baking-powder- 
biscuit 

Butter 



72 CUp 

2 tbsp. 

1 serving 
Vi cup 

y 3 cup 

3 leaves 

\y 2 tbsp. 

2 slices 
1 tbsp. 

l A cup 



1 cup 

2 tbsp. 
3 



l A cup 



leaves 



10 

l / 2 slice 

\y 2 tbsp. 

3 small 

1 tbsp. 



Ill 

38 
71 
88 
71 
30 
14 
76 
15 
80 

242 
20 
11 



59 

30 
68 
56 
27 
14 

57 
15 



100 

13ft 
150 
100 
100 
6 
100 
100 
125 
125 

88 
80 
50 



100 

6 

50 

50 

40 

100 

93 
109 

3039 



QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 

Goitre 

1. What may be origin of goitre? 

2. Discuss food requirement in any case. 

3. What type of diet should be used? 

4. What type of foods should be avoided? 

5. Name some specific foods to avoid. 



CHAPTER XXVII 

• DIETETIC MANAGEMENT OF SURGICAL 

CASES 1 

Diet Preceding Operations. — For other than abdom- 
inal operations the only dietary precaution necessary is that 
for a few days previous to the operation all food should be 
very simple and nourishing, with rather large intake of fluids. 
If the patient is under-nourished effort should be made to 
improve this condition. No food should be given for twelve 
to fourteen hours before the operation and the intestinal 
canal should be thoroughly cleared. 

Abdominal Operative Cases require more careful 
preparation. It is recommended that the patient rest in bed 
for a day, or better two days, before the operation and dur- 
ing this period receive only the very simplest diet, as soft- 
cooked eggs, soft cereal, toast and custard. Weak tea and 
coffee may be used and buttermilk or one of the fermented 
milks is recommended rather than whole milk. The amounts 
given should be adequate for caloric requirement. 

Gastric Operations. — The rendering of the stomach 
as sterile as possible is an important preparation for such 
operations. This may be accomplished by careful cleansing 
of the month, and by giving sterile food and using sterilized 
utensils. If the stomach is normally acid most bacteria 
which might find entrance in spite of these precautions would 
be destroyed. 

Operations involving other organs such as the kidneys, 
the liver or the gall bladder call for such dietary restrictions 
as are necessary in any disordered condition of these organs. 

1 Arranged under the supervision of Dr. B. Franklin Stahl, Clinical Professor 
of Medicine, Women's Medical College of Pennsylvania. Visiting Physician to 
the St. Agnes and Philadelphia General Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa. 

558 



POST OPERATIVE DIETS 559 

Type of Diet. — A liquid or semi-liquid diet is given at 
first and easily digested solids are added as soon as the pa- 
tient's condition permits. The food is usually given fre- 
quently and in small quantities. If it is given a teaspoonful 
at a time every few minutes until an ounce has been given 
it will often be retained when larger amounts would be 
vomited. When peristalisis has been established this method 
may be discontinued. After severe nausea an iced drink is 
sometimes better retained than a hot drink. A carbonated 
water, orange juice or buttermilk may be used. Mouth and 
throat operations naturally call for liquid or soft and non- 
irritating foods until the parts have healed so the passage 
of food will no longer be painful. 

Food Needs. — A diet is recommended with a protein con- 
tent slightly below the normal requirement. The normal re- 
quirement is about one gram of protein for each kilogram 
of body weight. The following dietary tables, recommended 
by Warren T. Vaughan, M.D., and Nellie H. VanDyke, 
B.S., 1 and successfully used at the St. Elizabeth's Hospital, 
Richmond, Va., are arranged on such a basis. 

Post Operative Diets 

Unless the operation involves some part of the digestive 
canal, there are no especial dietetic rules. Usually no food is 
given during the first twenty- four hours after the operation. 
This permits recovery from the nausea and vomiting that so 
often result from the giving of an anesthetic. A rather 
abundant intake of fluids before operation is thought bv 
some to lessen this tendency to nausea. The washing out of 
the stomach while the patient is still under the influence of 
the anesthetic is also recommended. If the condition of 
nausea and vomiting is not present there is no reason for 
withholding food. 

Glucose to Prevent Acidosis Following Operation 2 . — A 
solution of glucose given intravenously during an operation 

'Warren T. Vaughan, M.D. and Nellie H. VanDyke, B.S.. in Postoperative 

Dietotherapy, American Journal of The Medical Sciences, February, 1922. 
2 Farrar in "Surgery, Gynecology and Obstetrics," April, 1921. 



560 MANAGEMENT OF SURGICAL CASES 

at the rate of 0.8 gm. glucose for every kilogram of body 
weight each hour of the operation will lessen the acidosis 
incident to operation by promoting metabolism, prevent or 
diminish the vomiting and promote diuresis. The solution of 
gum acacia (6 per cent) in glucose (20 per cent) if given 
at a subtolerant rate the entire time of operation is an aid to 
the maintenance of blood pressure. Carbohydrate feeding 
before and after the operation, together with the use of 
sodium bicarbonate, will do much to prevent or lessen 
acidosis. 



POST OPERATIVE DIETS 



56i 



Food Combinations and Menus 

POSTOPERATIVE DIETS 1 
Vaughan and VanDyke 

DIET NO. I 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 


OUNT 


L 1 


3 




w 

H 

O K S 


w 






S 


1° 


i 


< 5 


hi 
< 




< 


Ch 


fc, 


u - 


u 



7 A. M. 

Hot milk 


200 c.c. 


6.6 


8.0 


10.0 


138.40 


9 A. M. 

Oatmeal gruel 

With milk 

Coffee with cream... 

With cane sugar . . . 


100 c.c. 

100 c.c. 

25 c.c. 

8 gm. 


is' 

0.55 


4.4 

10.6" 


11.3* 

875 


102.80 
127.2* 


11 A. M. 












Orange juice 

Lemon juice 

Lactose 

Water 


50 c.c. 

25 c.c. 

50 gm. 

' 150 c.c. 


0.4 


o.i* 


58.25 


235.5 


1 P. M. 

Chicken broth 

Cocoa 

With lactose 

With cream 

With milk 


150 c.c. 
5 gm. 

30 gm. 

50 c.c. 
100 c.c. 


5.4 

5.48 


0.5 

25.44 


2.25 
38.38 


35.10 
404.40 


3 P. M. 

Buttermilk 


200 c.c. 


6.0 


1.0 


9.58 


71.32 


5 P. M. 

Grape juice 

With lactose 


! 125 c.c. 
25 gm. 






31.25 


125.66 


7 P. M. 

Cream of tomato soup 
Soft-cooked egg 


150 c.c. 
50 gm. 


10.65 
5.95 


42.64 
4.65 


41.05 


590.56 
65.55 


9 P. M. 

Hot milk 


150 c.c. 


4.95 


6.0 


7.50 


103.80 




1 


50.48 


102.93 


212.06 


1999.73 



1 "Postoperative Dietotherapy," 
Medical Sciences, February, 1922. 



Vaughan & VanDyke, American Journal of 



562 MANAGEMENT OF SURGICAL CASES 



TIME | FROM THE KITCHEN AMOUNT 



FROM THE FLOOR AMOUNT 



7 A.M. 
9A.M. 



11A.M. 

1P.M. 

3 P.M. 
5 P.M. 

7 P.M. 

9 P.M. 



Oatmeal gruel 
with milk 

Coffee with cream 
and sugar 



Chicken broth... 



I serving 
1 cup 

1 bowl 



Cream soup 1 bowl 

Soft-cooked egg. 1 egg 



Hot milk 



Orangeade with 
lactose 



Buttermilk 



Grape juice with 
lactose 



Hot milk 



1 glass 



1 glass 
1 glass 



1 glass 
1 cup 



POST OPERATIVE DIETS 

DIET NO. II 



563 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



z 


» 




O 


O O 


H 


as 


< 


Ph 


fa 



w 

2 « S 
Sou 

< * 



7 A. 



9 A. 



M. 

Chicken broth 

M. 

Soft-cooked egg 

Oatmeal gruel 

Coffee with cream and 

sugar (cane) 

11 A. M. 

Grape juice 

1 P. M. 

Cream of green pea 

soup 

Orange juice 

With lemon juice... 

With lactose 

With water 

M. 

Beef juice 

P. M. 

Malted milk 

With cocoa 

With lactose 

Soft poached egg 

Mr. 

Boiled custard 

M. 

Barley water 



3 P. 



7 P. 
9 P. 



100 c.c. 

50 gm. 

100 c.c. 

25 c.c. 

8 gm. 

150 c.c. 



200 c.c. 

50 c.c. 

25 c.c. 

50 gm. 
150 c.c. 

100 c.c. 

12 gm. 

5 gm. 

25 gm. 

50 gm. 

100 gm. 

200 c.c. 



3.6 


0.1 


1.5 


5.95 
1.2 


4.65 

0.4 


6.3' 


0.55 


10.0 


8.75 
37.50 


15.56 


56.88 


88.04 


0.4 


0.4 


58.25 


4.90 


0.60 




4.13 
5.95 


4.30 
4.65 


4.01 


6.27 


6.32 


31.35 


15.56 


56.88 


58.04 


*9.03 


88.11 


239.34 



21.30 

65.65 
33.60 

127.20 

150.00 

806.32 

235.80 
25.0 



191.26 
65.65 

207.36 

806.35 

1946.47 



TIME FROM THE KITCHEN AMOUNT 



FROM THE FLOOR 



AMOUNT 



7 A.M. 

9 A.M. 



11 A.M. 
1 P.M. 



Oatmeal gruel. . . 

Soft-cooked egg. 

Coffee with sugar 

and cream 



1 serving 
1 egg 

1 cup 



Cream soup 1 bowl 

Orangeade 1 glass 

3 P.M. 

5 P.M. Chocolate malted 

milk ■ 1 glass 

Soft poached egg ' 1 egg 

7P.M. Boiled custard... , 1 cup 

9P.M 



Chicken broth 

Grape juice 
Beef juice 



1 cup 

1 glass 
1 cup 



Barley water 1 cup 



564 MANAGEMENT OF SURGICAL CASES 

DIET NO. Ill 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



o « 






7 A. M. 

Orange juice 

Lemon juice 

Lactose 

9 A. M. 

Cream toast 

With milk 

With butter 

With flour 

Poached egg 

11 A. M. 

Chicken broth ...... 

With cracker 

1 P. M. 

Cream of pea soup . . 
3 P. M. 

Oatmeal gruel with 

milk 

5 P. M. 

Poached egg on toast 

Butter 

7 P. M. 

Baked custard 

Malted milk 

With cocoa 

With lactose 



100 c.c. 
15 c.c. 
15 gm. 

30 gm. 

100 c.c. 

1 oz. 

1 oz. 

50 gm. 

100 c.c. 
10 gm. 

200 c.c. 



1C0 c.c. 

20 gm. 
10 c.c. 

100 gm. 

12 gm. 

5 gm. 

25 gm. 



0.8 


0.2 


28.07 


7.78 

5.95 


12.49 

4.65 


7.45 


4.58 


1.01 


8.81 


15.56 


56.88 


58.04 


8.72 


8.10 


21.83 


7.87 


13.39 


10.54 


7.60 


6.65 


12.50 


10*39 


11*56 


48.07 


69.25 


114.93 


195.93 



173.33 
65.65 



62.65 
806.35 

195.10 
194.15 

140.25 

237.88 
2092.81 



TIME 


FROM THE KITCHEN 


AMOUNT 


FROM THE FLOOR 


AMOUNT 


7 A.M. 






Orangeade with 










lactose 


1 glass 


9 A.M. 


Cream toast 

Poached egg 


1 serving 
1 egg 






11AM 






Chicken broth 
with cracker . . 










1 glass 


1P.M. 


Cream soup 


1 bowl 






3 P.M. 


Oatmeal gruel 
with milk 


1 serving 






5 P.M. 


Poached egg on 
toast with butter 


1 serving 






7 P.M. 


Baked custard... 


1 serving 






9PM 






Chocolate malted 
milk 










1 glass 






POST OPERATIVE DIETS 



565 



DIET NO. IV 



SCHEDULE OF FEEDING 



5 o 

— 



w 

H 

9 « S* 
2 g ° 



7 A. M. 

Baked apple 120 gm. 

9 A. M. 

Wheat farina 100 c.c. 

With milk 100 c.c. 

With lactose 15 gm. 

Toast with milk 100 c.c. 

Toast 40 gm. 

11 A. M. 

Plain junket 100 gm. 

1 P. M. ■ 

Creamed fish j 50 gm. 

With white sauce . . 100 c.c. 

Puree of spinach.... 100 gm. 

3 P. M. 

Apricot souffle 

5 P. M. 

Chicken broth 100 c.c. 

With rice 50 gm. 

Poached egg 50 gm. 

On toast 20 gm. 

With butter 10 c.c. 

7 P. M. 

Stewed prunes 100 gm. 

9 P. M. 

Barley gruel with milk 120 gm. 



0.61 


0.58 


29.30 


14.50 


5.40 


96.30 


7.12 


12.54 


7.10 


3.30 


4.0 


19.67 


17.48 


18.83 


26.24 


2.10 


4.10 


2.60 


6.37 


21.56 


17.85 


5.0 


0.60 


1.50 


7.87 


13.39 


10.54 


0.50 


0.10 


22.30 


5.94 


6.41 


13.25 


70.59 


87.51 


246.65 



124.86 

491.0 
169.74 

127.88 

344.35 

55.70 

290.92 

31.40 

194.15 

92.10 

134.45 

2056.55 



TIME 


i FROM THE KITCHEN 


I AMOUNT 


FROM THE FLOOR 


AMOUNT 


7 A.M. 


Baked apple 


1 large 






9 A.M. 


Wheat farina with 

sugar and milk 

Milk toast 


1 serving 
1 serving 






11A.M. 


Plain junket 


1 cup 






1 P.M. 


Creamed fish 

Puree of spinach. 


1 serving 
1 serving 






3 P.M. 


A.pricot souffle. . . 


1 serving 






5 P.M. 


Chicken broth 
with rice 


1 bowl 






7 P.M. 


Stewed fruit 


1 serving 






9 P.M. 


Barley gruel with 
milk 


1 serving 







566 MANAGEMENT OF SURGICAL CASES 

Diet No. I, is usually the first administered and should be 
given as soon after operation as the patient's condition safely 
permits. It corresponds to the so-called liquid diet, although 
there are included in it such non-liquids as strained oatmeal 
gruel, and a soft-cooked egg. 

Diet No. ii, is used interchangeably with the former and 
is particularly useful in those cases with milk intolerance or 
with a tendency to abdominal distention. 

Diet No. in, follows Diet No. I, or No. n, usually by 
about two days. When it is found that the patient tolerates 
the first diet well he may rapidly be changed to the third. In 
this the feedings are alternated, liquid and semi-solid. After 
an additional day or two, or as long as is necessary in each 
individual case, Diet No. iv, consisting of semi-solid food, 
is given. 

The feedings in all four diets are administered every two 
hours. The directions to the nurse are simplified as shown in 
the accompanying tables, which indicate the amount to be 
given and whether it is to come from the kitchen or is to be 
made up by the nurse in the ward. 

The advantages of these four groups of diets are as fol- 
lows : ( i ) A graduated increase in feedings is provided for 
each case without complications; (2) the diets are composed 
of the proper proportions of protein, fat and carbohydrate ; 
(3) the nourishing value is high ; (4) all diets are sufficiently 
varied and are palatable. 

In practical experience we have found the diets to be sat- 
isfactory. No striking advantage over the usual method of 
feeding is to be seen in the average postoperative case. It is 
particularly in those cases which develop untoward compli- 
cations with prolonged convalescence that the comparative 
advantages become apparent. Nevertheless, we have ob- 
served that patients placed on these dietaries are much more 
content than others treated by the usual method. 

We would particularly emphasize that in postoperative 
treatment the diet must be individualized. Every patient is 
a law unto himself. The patient's likes and dislikes should 



GASTRIC OPERATIONS 567 

always be consulted and agreeable food substituted for that 
which is distasteful. This can easily be arranged in our diet. 
The dietaries above described will be relished by the major- 
ity of individuals but, when necessary, substitution should be 
freely employed provided care is taken not to change the 
relative proportion of protein, fat and carbohydrate and not 
to alter markedly the caloric value. 

Gastric Operations. — For three days after the opera- 
tion no food should be allowed. Very small amounts of 
water or Vichy, one to two ounces every hour may be given, 
and extra water may be furnished by means of Murphy 
Drip or by saline enema, four to six ounces every three 
hours. If thirst is not extreme, water by mouth may be 
withheld entirely during this time. After the three-day 
period, very careful feeding is advised. Sippy's Diet for 
Peptic Ulcer may be used to advantage and the following 
is Finney's Diet List for Gastro-Enterostomy 1 : 

finney's diet for gastroenterostomy 

1st day. First twelve hours, nothing by mouth, nutrient enema every 
four hours alternating with continuous salt solution by 
Murphy's method. 

Second twelve hours, water in 4 c.c. (1 dram) doses by 
mouth every two hours. 

2nd day. Increase water gradually up to 30 c.c. (1 oz.) every two 
hours. 

3rd day. Water, 30 c.c. (1 oz.) alternating with albumin, 4 c.c. 
(1 dram) ; gradually increase quantities of each until 
eighth day. 

8th day. Any liquid, 60 c.c. (2 oz.) every two hours. 

9th day. Any liquid, 90 c.c. (3 oz.) every two hours. 

10th day. Any liquid, 120 c.c. (4 oz.) every two hours. Discontinue 
rectal feeding. 

11th day. One soft-boiled egg in addition to any liquid. 

12th day. Two soft-boiled eggs in addition to any liquid. 

13th day. Soft diet. 

14th day. Soft diet. 

1 Carter, Howe and Mason, "Nutrition and Clinical Dietetics," Lea & Febiuer 
Philadelphia, Pa., 1921. 2nd Edition. B ' 



568 MANAGEMENT'OF SURGICAL CASES 

15th day. Very restricted light diet. 

16th day. Restricted light diet. 

17th day. Restricted light diet. 

18th day. Any digestible solid food. 

After the eighteenth day the following 'diet list may be gradually 
followed, and should be«continued for at least four or five months: 

Kinds of Foods to Use: 

Soups Any light soup. 

Meats Any easily digested meats, as brains, sweetbreads, beef, 

mutton, lamb, poultry (best minced and taken either 

broiled or boiled). 
Fish Mainly the white variety, mackerel, bass, as well as 

oysters (boiled or broiled). 

Eggs In any form except fried. 

Vegetables ....The easily digestible forms, best taken mashed or 

strained, as asparagus, spinach, peas, beans, potatoes, 

carrots, farinaceous food; any of the cereals; bread to 

be taken stale. 

Desserts Any of the light puddings. 

Fruits Mainly stewed. 

Fatty Foods Cream, butter, and olive oil. 

Drinks Milk, buttermilk, cocoa, carbonated mineral water and 

plain water. 

Food to Avoid. — Rich soups, pork, fried foods, veal, stews, hashes, 
corned meats, twice-cooked meat, potted meat, liver, kidney, duck, 
goose, sausage, crabs, sardines, lobster, preserved fish, salted or 
smoked fish, salmon, cauliflower, radishes, celery, cabbage, cucumbers, 
sweet potatoes, tomatoes, beets, corn, salad, bananas, melons, berries, 
pineapple, hot bread or cakes, nuts, candies, pies pastry, preserves, 
cheese, strong tea or coffee, alcoholic stimulants. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 
OPERATIONS 

1. Discuss fully the dietary rules to be observed in preparation for 
operations of various types. 

2. Speak in detail of postoperative diets. 

3. What is the food requirement? 

4. Discuss the diets and method of administration recommended by 
Vaughan and Van Dyke. 

5. What special care is necessary in gastric operations? 



CHAPTER XXVIII 

DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

MOTHERHOOD 
Diet in Pregnancy 

It is necessary to adopt a specific diet for pregnancy only 
when complications arise, such as, for example, albuminuria 
or serious vomiting. 

The diet should be one which is easy of digestion, avoid- 
ing all foods which cause distress or even discomfort be- 
cause of indigestion. It should furnish all the essentials of 
an adequate diet (see page 23), bearing in mind that the 
energy requirement of the mother is not greatly increased 
even in the last stages of pregnancy, when an increase of 
t2Q>°/o above her normal energy needs will cover the addi- 
tional demands. A woman who ordinarily requires 2000 
calories will then require 2400 calories. 

It is especially important that the diet be laxative, since 
the mother must get rid of not only her own waste products 
but also those of the unborn child. Green vegetables, fruits, 
fresh and dried, and whole grain cereals, such as rolled oats, 
wheatena, etc., should be liberally used. 

Kinds of Food to Use: 

Milk Valuable especially for its calcium, proteins of 

high nutritive value (see page 166), and vita- 
mines. 

Cereals Especially those made from whole grains. 

Green Vegetables Spinach, lettuce and other salad greens, celery, 

cabbage, peas, beans, cauliflower, etc. 

Fruits All kinds, both fresh and dried, cooked or raw. 

569 



570 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

Meats and Fish In moderate amounts once a day. 

Eggs Except fried. 

Fats Such as butter, cream, bacon and olive oil, in 

moderate amounts. 

Vomiting in Pregnancy 1 

Well-nourished patients when serious vomiting first occurs 
should usually refrain from taking food of any kind for 
from ten or twelve or even twenty-four hours. Exceptions 
to this rule are sometimes found in that type of seasickness, 
and sometimes in the vomiting of pregnancy, in which, as 
soon almost as the stomach is emptied, there is a desire to 
replenish the loss. 

In any case in which the gastric irritation is persistent, it 
is necessary to give fluid food, and only in small, oft-re- 
peated doses, preferably in predigested form. The food is 
best given cold, as a rule, although some persons can relieve 
nausea by sipping very hot water. 

A teaspoonful of prepared milk, or in extreme cases 
even a few drops, given with a medicine dropper once in 
ten or fifteen minutes, may be all that the stomach will at 
first tolerate. 

Kinds of Food to Use. — The following is a list of foods 
which are commonly prescribed for the relief of nausea and 
vomiting, or for nourishment while those conditions exist: 
Cracked ice, milk, milk and lime water, kumyss, zoolak, beef 
extracts, strong black coffee, sour lemonade or lemonade and 
White Rock, clam broth, strong tea without cream or sugar. 

Very severe and protracted cases of vomiting may require 
lavage or nutrient enema. 

Diet for the Mother After Labor 2 

During the first eighteen hours after labor the mother 
should have liquids sufficient to quench the thirst, a cup of 

a W. Gilman Thompson, M.D., "Practical Dietetics," D. Appleton Co., New 
York City. 

2 Carter, Howe and Mason, "Nutr'tion and Clinical Dietetics," Lea & Febiger, 
Philadelphia, Pa., 1921. 2nd Edition. 






MOTHERHOOD 571 

tea. water, White Rock or broth. After this, coffee, milk, 
toast, soft cereals, milk toast, and so back to normal diet. 
After the bowels have been moved on the second day the 
amount of food can be steadily increased, always giving 
plenty of water and small mid-morning and afternoon 
feedings. 

Foods to Avoid. — Acid fruits, such as grapefruit, lemonade, sour 
oranges, strawberries, plums, tomatoes; vegetables which are apt to 
cause flatulence, such as onions, cabbage, turnips, beans ; pork and 
veal ; all fried foods. 



Kinds of Food to 


Use : 




Mild fruits. 




Milk. 


Cereals. 




Eggs — except fried 


Soups and broths. 




Fish. 


Bread and toast. 




Chicken. 


Vegetables (all kinds 


except 


Lean beef or lamb. 


those noted above). 







Diet for. a Nursing Mother 

The diet for a nursing mother should be nutritious, easily 
digested and laxative. • It must provide for her own body 
needs plus the additional demands occasioned by milk pro- 
duction. This means that it must supply an extra amount 
of protein, calcium, phosphorus, iron and vitamines, as well 
as extra fuel. If sufficient nourishment for both is not sup- 
plied, the needs of the child for protein, .calcium, etc., will 
be met as far as possible at the expense of the mother's 
bones and tissues. 

In order that this increased quantity of food should not 
tax the mother's digestion, it is essential that the diet should 
be comparatively easy of digestion. Acid fruits and vege- 
tables if introduced gradually into the diet and used in 
moderation will not give the baby colic. Unless they upset 
the mother's digestion they will not affect the milk. 

Just as during the period of pregnancy constipation must 
be carefully guarded against. 

Kinds of Foods to Use. — In general the same foods 
which are valuable for the woman during pregnancy should 



572 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

be included in the diet of the nursing mother, avoiding such 
things as fried foods, rich puddings, cakes, pastries and fat 
meats, and including simple dishes such as cream soups, 
milk puddings, cereals, vegetables and fruits, fresh canned 
and dried, and meats and eggs in moderation. 

The mother should avoid all fatigue, worry and emotional 
excitement of any kind, since these are certain to interfere 
seriously with the secretion of milk. She should have a 
moderate amount of outdoor exercise and at least eight 
hours of sleep every night, or, if her rest is broken then, 
she should try to make it up during the day when the baby 
sleeps. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 
MOTHERHOOD 

1. How should the diet be regulated during pregnancy? 

2. What are the food requirements for the nursing mother? 

3. Are there special restrictions for the diet of the nursing mother? 



CHAPTER XXIX 

INFANT FEEDING 
Breast Feeding 1 

The first year of life is the year of greatest growth and 
development. The baby must adapt himself to entirely new 
conditions. All his organs must learn to function. The 
way a baby is fed during this period either helps him to 
live and to become strong and healthy, or makes his growth 
and development much more difficult. Breast feeding helps 
him more than any other one thing. Mother's milk is the 
one perfect infant food. 

Statistics gathered from this country and many others 
show that breast-fed babies have a much greater chance for 
life than those bottle-fed, and also that infant illnesses, 
not only those of the digestive tract but other varieties as 
well, afflict bottle-fed infants much oftener and much more 
seriously than those who have had breast milk. Not only 
does breast milk protect the nursing baby from illness and in- 
crease materially his chance for life, but it practically in- 
sures his development in a normal, orderly fashion. 

The majority of mothers can nurse their babies, at least in 
part if they will, provided they take proper care of them- 
selves. Sufficient wholesome food, plenty of sleep, fresh 
air, a moderate amount of exercise, avoiding fatigue and 
overwork, and a serene, cheerful attitude of mind are neces- 
sary if she is to maintain a full normal milk supply. So 
intimate is the nervous connection of the mammary glands 
with the mind that the mental state of the mother is readily 
reflected in their functioning. Fear, anger, or worry may 

x "Infant Care," U. S. Department of Labor, Children's Bureau, Care of 
Children Series No. 2, Bureau Publication No. 8, Revised 1922. 

573 



574 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

serve to check the secretion of the milk or to change its 
quality so much that, for the time being, it is unfiit for use, 
while on the other hand, a calm mind, joy, laughter and de- 
light in life, coupled with the desire and intention to nurse 
the baby, will make it possible to do so. 

Colostrum. 1 — The first secretion of the breasts is called 
colostrum and, while not a true milk, is adapted to the baby's 
needs in the first hours of his life. The baby should be put 
to the breast from six to twelve hours after birth, according 
to the condition of the mother and the strength of the baby. 
The object of this is not to give the baby food, but to ob- 
tain the cleansing action of the colostrum milk and stimu- 
late the breast to secretion. It is supposed that nursing also 
favors the contraction of the uterus, but there is no proof 
that this is so. 

Technique of Nursing. 1 — The baby should be held 
lying on its side with its head a little elevated. It must be 
everywhere supported, so that it is relaxed and comfort- 
able. The breast above the nipple must be pressed away 
from its nose, so that it can breathe freely. The mother 
must be quiet and composed so that the baby is not dis- 
turbed and excited. Vomiting after nursing can sometimes 
be prevented by having the mother lie down beside the baby 
while she nurses it. In other instances it is advisable to 
hold the baby upright every few minutes during the nursing 
in order that it may get up the air which it swallows and 
which would otherwise cause vomiting. 

The nipples should be washed before and after each nurs- 
ing with sterile water or with a saturated solution of boracic 
acid and carefully dried. If a crack should appear, the 
greatest care should be taken to prevent infecting the breast, 
lest a painful breast abscess result. A doctor should al- 
ways be consulted. The cracked nipple should be kept con- 
stantly clean by washing it with boiled water. A glass nip- 
ple shield should be used, care being taken that it is always 

1 Morse & Talbot, "Diseases of Nutrition and Infant Feeding," 2nd Ed. 
Macmillan Co., 1920. 



INFANT FEEDING 



575 



perfectly clean and sterilized by boiling. The shield will 
not materially increase the difficulty of nursing for the baby 
and will safeguard the mother. If the breasts become en- 
gorged, they may be relieved by using a breast pump if 
necessary, or by gentle massage, but all manipulation only 
serves to stimulate the breast to greater activity and the less 
handling it can have the better. Usually the matter rights it- 
self without difficulty as soon as the relation between the 
supply and demand is established. If the mother has re- 
ceived the proper care during pregnancy and the breasts and 
nipples have had due attention, which is part of a physician's 
duty, the nursing period will be shorn of much of its possi- 
ble pain and trouble. 

Intervals of Feeding. 1 — Most babies thrive better if 
the interval between feedings is fairly long. This interval 
may be six hours until the milk is established. From that 
time the baby may be fed at three-hour intervals until he is 
four months old, when four hours should be allowed to 
elapse between feedings. Many babies do well if fed only 
once in four hours from birth. However, if the breast supply 
is scanty, more frequent stimulation is sometimes necessary 
to the success of breast feeding. 

Night feeding (after the 10 o'clock nursing) may be 
omitted when the child is four months old. 

The following table shows nursing interval and the num- 
ber of feedings in 24 hours when the three-hour interval is 
used i 1 



Nursings Night 

Period in 24 Interval nursings 

hours. by day. (10 p.m. to 

6 a. ml). 
Hours. 

First and second day 4 6 1 

Third day to 4 months 7 3 1 

4 to 7 months 6 3 

7 to 12 months 5 4 

x Dr. L. Emmett Holt, "The Care and Feeding of Children," D. Appleton 
Co., New York City, 1922. 



576 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

The baby should be nursed regularly, by the clock, from 
the very first and should have nothing between meals save 
water to drink. It takes from one and one-half to three 
hours for a baby's stomach to empty itself after a full meal 
of breast milk and considerably longer for the process of 
digestion to be completed in the intestines. 

The baby should not ordinarily be allowed to remain at the 
breast over 20 minutes in any case, and the nipple should be 
withdrawn several times during the nursing, so that he will 
not take the food too rapidly with consequent regurgitation 
and indigestion. If the milk is plentiful the breasts should 
be nursed alternately but it may be necessary to give both 
breasts at one feeding in order to satisfy the baby. Do not 
let the baby go to sleep while nursing. 

Supplementary Feeding. — It is sometimes found that 
the mother's milk is not sufficient in amount for the child 
and supplementary feedings of modified cow's milk must 
be given, adapted to the age of the infant. The amount of 
artificial food to be given depends on the amount of breast 
milk the infant is getting. This is determined by weighing 
the baby before and after each nursing in 24 hours. 

Gains in Weight : 

1. Method of Weighing. Undress the baby completely. 
Put a soft cloth in the pan of the scales and lay the baby 
on it, or wrap the baby in a blanket if the room is not warm. 
Weigh carefully and record the result. Remove the baby, 
weigh the blanket or cloth and subtract this amount from 
the first weight. 

When weighing the baby before and after nursings to de- 
termine the amount of breast milk he is receiving do not un- 
dress him but weigh both times in exactly the same clothing. 
If the diaper becomes wet or soiled meantime, do not change 
it until after the weight has been taken. 

2. Average Gains. The normal breast-fed infant gains 6 
to 8 ounces per week for the first five months, and 4 to 6 
ounces per week during the rest of the year. Smaller but 






INFANT FEEDING S77 

steady gains are not abnormal. A simple rule is that a baby 
should double its birth weight in the first five months and 
treble it by the end of the first year or soon after. 

Gains from day to day are irregular. Weigh the baby 
once a week. Keep a weight record or preferably a weight 
chart. One weight is not significant but a weight curve is. 

Artificial Feeding 

The term "artificial feeding" refers by common parlance 
to the method of feeding which must be employed when an 
infant, for any reason, is denied breast milk, because any 
other method of feeding a young baby than at its mother's 
breast is truly artificial. 

Wide experience has shown that fresh cow's milk is the 
best substitute for breast milk. This milk should be the 
purest and cleanest possible ; it should be the product of a 
tuberculin-tested herd, one that is healthy, well fed, properly 
housed and cared for, and milked by clean milkers into steril- 
ized utensils. The milk should be bottled and cooled at the 
dairy and delivered to the consumer in sealed bottles. The 
milk commonly sold from open cans, known as "loose" or 
"dipped" milk, should never be given to a baby. 

Certified Milk 1 . — In certain places it is possible to ob- 
tain what is known as "certified" milk, which is fresh, clean, 
pure, normal milk of uniform composition and highest qual- 
ity obtained from healthy cows and produced and handled 
under the supervision of a medical milk commission, with 
special sanitary precautions. Although the amount of certi- 
fied milk is as yet far too small, the demand for it is steadily 
increasing. As soon as mothers become convinced of the 
infinite advantage of having a supply of raw milk whose 
quality is guaranteed, they are quite ready to pay the addi- 
tional cost. 

Pasteurized Milk. — Milk is pasteurized by heating it 
to a temperature of 6o° to 63 ° C. (140 to 145 F.) and 

1 For Methods and Standards for the Production of Certified Milk, see Sher- 
man, Food Products," Macmillan, 1916, page 533. 



578 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

holding it at this temperature for 20 to 30 minutes. This 
serves to destroy any bacteria of diseases regarded as trans- 
missible by milk. As a precaution against subsequent con- 
tamination it is desirable that the milk be pasteurized in the 
sealed bottles in which it is to be delivered to the consumer, 
or if the pasteurization is done at home, in the bottles in 
which it is to be kept. Unless Grade A or certified milk can 
be obtained it is safer to use pasteurized milk for infant 
feeding. 

Differences Between Cow's Milk and Human Milk. 
The following table shows the average composition of cow's 
and human milk: 

Human Cow's 

3.3% 
4.0% 
5.0% 
07% 

Cow's milk contains approximately twice as much protein, 
about the same amount of fat, less carbohydrate (lactose) 
and a little more than three times as much mineral matter. 

The difference between human and cow's milk is not only 
in the proportion but also in the form of the constituents. 
The fat is much more finely emulsified in human milk than 
in cow's milk. There is more casein (one of the milk pro- 
teins, see page 16) in cow's milk. Cow's milk forms larger 
and tougher curds in an infant's stomach than does human 
milk. Human milk is practically sterile as the baby takes it. 
Cow's milk, even under the best conditions, is far from 
sterile when the baby gets it. 

Modification of Milk. — The aim in artificial feeding is 
to adapt cow's milk to the digestive tract of the baby and 
at the same time provide as far as possible an adequate 
supply of fuel, protein, mineral matter and vitamines. 



Protein 


1.5% 


Fat 


4.0% 


Lactose 


7.0% 


Mineral matter 


0.2% 



INFANT FEEDING 579 

There are a number of methods for modifying milk and 
authorities differ widely as to their use. A few of the fun- 
damental points are given here but it should be understood 
that whenever possible a doctor should be consulted re- 
garding the diet of an artificially fed infant. Each baby 
is an individual case in his capacity for and reaction to 
food and must be treated accordingly. 

Whole Milk Formula. 1 — The simplest method of modifi- 
cation is by dilution of whole milk and addition of sugar 
or other carbohydrates to meet the energy requirement of 
the child. 

A simple method of calculating a milk formula for an 
average healthy infant on the basis of caloric requirements 
is to start with the daily amount of protein of cow's milk 
needed. This by experience has been found to be furnished 
in approximately iy 2 ounces of milk for each pound of 
body weight. An infant weighing 10 pounds will thus re- 
quire 15 ounces of milk. If his caloric needs are calcu- 
lated at 45 calories per pound of body weight they will be 
450 calories. Of this there will be furnished in the milk 
(20 calories per ounce) 300 calories, leaving 150 calories 
to be made up by carbohydrates — sugar or starch. One 
ounce of sugar will add 120 calories, or 1^ ounces, 150 
calories. This will give the food values for a day. There 
is still to be determined the amount of diluent, which will 
depend upon the infant's daily need of fluid. This has been 
shown to be about 3 ounces for each pound of body weight 
in the early months, and 2 ounces for each pound in the 
later months, i.e., for a 10-pound infant it will be 30 ounces 
a day. There will need to be added, therefore, 15 ounces 
of water. The formula will then be : 

15 ounces milk, giving 300 calories 
1% ounces sugar, giving 150 calories 
15 ounces water 

1 Dr. L. Emmett Holt, "Diseases of Infancy and Childhood," D. Appleton Co., 
New York City, 1922. 



58o 



DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 





w 




5 




J 




< 




> 




u 








« 




o 




< 


s 


Q 




fe 


H 


< 


fe 


Pi 









H 


rf, 




!t1 


C/2 


w 


O 




PM 


T 


S 




o 


W 


u 


-J 


w 


O 


« 


w 


< 


£ 




2 


W 
() 


o 


tf 


« 


w 


E 


Oh 


C/2 


W 


< 


H 


J 


< 


P 


M 


» 




« 


X 


n 


o 


h 






Ch 




< 




o 




z 








> 








u 



> s 



rt 



e« C^l 43 

1,3 o cj e 

y g c S 

y 3 3 > 

5 O o v 



?) 






OS 



c 

C « u 



rt 3 +j t< 



loOmn 


O 
CM 


3.00 
5.00 
2.00 
2.60 


p 

CM 


^ d 
on B 


t^llO-H 


O 
CM 


2.80 
5.50 
2.00 
2.40 


O 
8 


6 
£ 

00 


rciOOJi-i 


O 
CM 


2.60 

5.50 

.80 

2.25 


o 

CO 


1 

SO 


cMr^ r- 


hCM 


o 

CM 


2.40 

6.00 

.40 

2.10 


p 




E 

IO 


^a 


I CM 


O 
CM 


oo • O 

CMu-> • On 

cm vo" : i-h 


uo 

\d 


6 
S 


OO 


I CM 


O 
CM 


2.00 
6.50 

Vis 


io 
io 


d 
E 

CO 


ON^H 


:cm 


8 


1.80 
6.50 

1.60 


IO 


d 
S 

CM 


00 CM 


:cm 


o 

CM 


1.60 
6.00 

1.40 


IO 

CO 




t^ <o 


:cm 


o 

CM 


1.40 
6.00 

1.20 


IO 
CM 




vOtj- 


.CM 


o 

CM 


1.20 

5.70 

1.66 


3 


4 

CM 



& 



Pi 

< 



0-8 g 

:B CSS 

U O to 



. O c rt 



2o 5 

U o ■- 

■so 

s- " o t) 

O - U> 

VC rt . 

" ^TJo 
-rt.fi . 

a.t£' *** 

►5*2 J! 73 

W S too 

2 s fi 

CO o 



J "I 



" N « s 



INFANT FEEDING 581 

Top Milk Formula. 1 — It is sometimes desirable to use a 
somewhat higher fat than that given in whole milk formu- 
las. This may be accomplished by using the upper half 
of a quart bottle of milk, i.e., a 7% top milk instead of 
whole milk. Before this top milk is removed the milk 
should stand in the bottle at least 4 hours, and the top milk 
should be carefully removed with a milk dipper and not 
poured off. The required number of ounces is measured 
from this. Such formulas are designed for infants who are 
able to take more fat than is contained in the formulas from 
whole milk. 

With all young infants, even those having presumably 
normal digestion, it is desirable to begin with a weaker 
food than would be indicated by their caloric requirements, 
and gradually increase both the strength and quantity ac- 
cording to the child's digestion. With small or feeble in- 
fants still weaker formulas should be used and the increase 
made more slowly. 

For a healthy child with normal digestion who has previ- 
ously had no cow's milk one should begin with a lower 
formula than would usually be given to a healthy child of 
his size and age, but one may increase the strength and 
quantity of the food more rapidly than with a younger in- 
fant. 

A stationary weight for a week or two, or even a loss of 
a few ounces, is of no importance, provided the change in 
diet can be effected without disturbing digestion, for as 
soon as a child becomes accustomed to cow's milk the 
strength can be increased and progress is assured. Nothing 
is easier than to disturb the digestion in the beginning by 
the use of too strong food. 

Intervals of Feeding. 1 — The essential thing in feeding is 
the amount of food given in the 24 hours. Into how many 
portions this daily quantity shall be divided and at what 

x Dr. L. Emmett Holt, "Diseases of Infancy and Childhood," D. Appleton Co., 
New York City, 1922. 



.582 



DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



intervals they shall be given is altogether a secondary con- 
sideration. Infants differ in their behavior to a schedule. 
Some do much better with relatively large feedings while 
^others thrive best when smaller feedings are given and the 
interval is made somewhat shorter. No hard and fast rule 
is to be laid down for all children. Experience has shown 
that the average infant can digest his food better if the 
intervals are made longer than was formerly the practice. 
With longer intervals the quantity given at one time and 
the strength of the food may be correspondingly increased. 
There are few healthy infants who cannot readily be trained 
to the intervals given in the table below, in which the infant 
is placed upon three-hour feedings at the outset and upon 
four-hour feedings when three months old. Many do ex- 
ceedingly well when placed upon four-hour feedings at 
the start. 

SCHEDULE FOR HEALTHY INFANTS DURING THE FIRST YEAR 1 



Age 



C f v 



r J 




tea, 


M 


^.Bo 


.a «» 




T3-3- Ji 


be & v 





4- u to 



31-0 
C*SW 



2nd to 7th day 

2nd, 3rd and 4th wks. 

2nd and 3rd mos 

4th and 5th mos 

6th, 7th and 8th mos. . 

9th and 10th mos 

11th and 12th mos.. . . 



Hrs. 






3 


2 


7 


3 




t* 


7 


3 


2 


7 


4 


1 


5 


4 


1 


5 


4 


1 


5 


4 


1 


5 



Ounces 
1 —2 
2^-4^ 
3^-5 

6 —7 

6y 2 -7y 2 

7 —8 

8 —9 



Ounces 
7 —14 

18 —32 
24 —35 
30 —35 
32V 2 —37y 2 
35 -^0 
40 -45 



Technique of Milk Modification. — Everything that is to 
be used in the preparation of the baby's food, including the 
hands and clothing of the mother or nurse, must be clean. 
The best possible milk should be bought. Certified milk is 
safest but if there is any doubt as to the quality of the milk 
obtainable it should be pasteurized. 

Articles Required for Preparing Milk Feedings include 

iD L. Emmett Holt, "Diseases of Infancy and Childhood," D. Appleton 
Co., New York City, 1922. 




INFANT FEEDING 583 

a glass graduate, a glass or agate funnel, a cream dipper, a 
pitcher for mixing food, nursing bottles, a tall cup in which 
the bottle may be surrounded by hot water and warmed, 
rubber nipples, bottle brushes, borax or boric acid and absor- 
bent cotton. 

The best style of bottle is that which can be most readily 
cleaned. The graduated cylindrical bottles with wide mouths 
are to be preferred, or better still is the Hygeia nurs- 
ing bottle that has no neck and a breast-nipple so 
natural that the baby can be weaned without a 
struggle, or will take it in conjunction with the 
natural supply. 

The best nipples are those of plain black rubber, 
which slip over the neck of the bottle and are not so 
thick as to prevent their being turned inside out for 
cleaning. The hole in the nipple should be large 
enough for the milk to drop rapidly when the bottle 
is inverted but not so large that it will run in a stream. New 
nipples should be boiled, but the daily boiling of nipples is 
unnecessary. It soon makes them so soft as to be useless. 
They should be rinsed in cold water immediately after using 
and washed daily in soap and water. When not in use 
nipples should be kept covered in a solution of borax or 
boric acid. 

All the food needed for 24 hours should be prepared at 
one time. The bottles should be sealed 1 with sterile cotton 
and kept in the refrigerator until needed. 

Directions for Feeding. — The food should be warmed 
to about ioo° F. This is best done by placing the bottle in 
a tall pitcher or cup filled with hot water, not by pouring 
the food from the bottle into a sauce pan. The temperature 
of the food may be tested with a thermometer or by pouring 

*To cork the Hygeia bottle, a sterilizer cap is used to cover the cell. The 
cap has a small opening, which is corked with non-absorbing cotton. These caps 
are en sale by druggists 



584 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

a few drops upon the front of the wrist ; it should feel warm 
but not hot. A bottle should not be warmed over for a second 
feeding. A child should not be more than twenty minutes in 
taking his food and should not sleep with the nipple of the 
bottle in his mouth. It is preferable to have a young infant 
held while taking his bottle. If this is not done the bottle 
should at least be held in such a position that the neck of the 
bottle is kept full. After feeding, the child should be held 
upright over the nurse's shoulder and patted on the back to 
allow him to bring up the gas, usually air, which he has 
swallowed. He is then placed in his crib and left alone. It 
is even more necessary than in breast feeding that rules as 
to frequency and regularity of meals be observed. 

Drinking Water. — The baby needs plenty of cool, un- 
sweetened water to drink. Drinking water for a baby should 
always be boiled, cooled, and given to the baby lukewarm, 
never ice cold. Never put sugar or anything else in it. Offer 
it to the baby between feedings. In summer especially a baby 
needs to drink frequently. Fretful babies, especially those 
who are cutting teeth, are often quieted by a cool drink. 

Antiscorbutics. — Infants fed on pasteurized or boiled 
milk should always have orange juice or tomato juice as a 
preventive against scurvy. 1 The amount of juice to be given 
is determined by the age of the child; a three months old 
baby should receive about one tablespoonful daily. 

Weaning 

Weaning. — If the supply of breast milk continues to 
be adequate it is usually best to wean the baby between the 
tenth and twelfth months. The time to wean must be de- 
termined by the circumstances in the individual case, de- 
pending on the amount and quality of the milk, the drain on 
the mother and the time of year. If a baby is doing fairly 
well it is usually advisable to continue nursing through the 
summer months because breast-fed infants are much less 

1 See page 22. 



INFANT FEEDING 585 

liable to digestive disturbances than those that are artificially 
fed. 

Weaning should proceed slowly, one bottle feeding being 
substituted for one breast feeding during the day for some 
time, then two bottles, and so on until all breast feeding has 
been done away with and the baby is entirely weaned. 

If drinking water has been given by means of a nursing 
bottle during much of the first year the baby will take his 
food in the same way the more readily. A healthy infant 
weaned at 9 months should begin with the food for an infant 
of 4 or 5 months. If he digests this mixture well the strength 
can be increased until within two or three weeks he is tak- 
ing the food full strength. Increase in the diet should be 
made with special caution at the beginning of summer or 
during the heat, when there is great danger of inducing 
diarrhea. It is far better to keep the baby on rather a low 
diet, even without increasing liis weight, than to upset the 
intestinal tract by overfeeding. If, after trying a new food, 
vomiting occurs or the stools show that there is indigestion, 
it is always better to return to the weaker food until the dis- 
turbance has subsided. 

Symptoms and Conditions Requiring Special Food 
Variations 1 

In a new case the most important guide in the first food 
prescription is a knowledge of the condition of the digestive 
organs. One should know, besides the age and weight, the 
nature and quantity of the food which has been taken, the 
appetite, the number and character of the stools, and also 
whether digestive symptoms are present, such as vomiting, 
flatulence, diarrhea, colic or constant discomfort. In any case 
the first prescription is somewhat in the nature of an experi- 
ment. Success will depend on how intelligently the symptoms 
have been judged. 

Even with infants who are properly fed there are few 

^r. L. Emmett Holt, "Diseases of Infancy and Childhood." D. Appleton 
Co., New York City, 1922. 



586 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

whose digestion remains perfectly normal throughout the 
entire first year. Changes in the food are therefore neces- 
sary from time to time to meet special symptoms which may 
arise. Many of these are due to disturbances of a minor 
character, but if they are recognized early and proper 
changes promptly made, more serious and protracted de- 
rangements of digestion can usually be avoided. This is not 
always an easy matter, but there are some indications which 
are very clear and definite. 

Hot Weather. — The depressing effects of very hot 
weather upon young infants should be appreciated. At such 
times less food can be digested and less is required. Owing 
to an increase in perspiration, the amount of water and con- 
sequently the volume of the food should seldom be reduced. 
The indications are best met by reducing the amount of milk 
in the formula and making up the deficiency by adding water, 
i. e., by simply diluting the food. An immediate change there- 
fore should be made from any top-milk formula to one from 
whole milk or at times even to one from partially skimmed 
milk. Water should also be given freely between the feed- 
ings. As soon as the period of excessive heat has passed, the 
infant can gradually be brought back to the usual food. 

Minor Illnesses. — In attacks of acute rhinitis, otitis, ton- 
sillitis, bronchitis, etc., even though not especially severe, the 
food should be reduced. The reduction should depend upon 
the severity of the attack and the amount of fever. The 
child's apparent appetite is often only a demand for water. 
At least as much is needed as in normal conditions and usu- 
ally more should be offered. The indications may be met in 
the same way as outlined in the preceding paragraph. 

Vomiting. — The common causes of habitual vomiting re- 
ferable to the food are : too much fat, too frequent feedings 
and too much food at one time ; or too much sugar, especially 
if the sugar is either maltose or cane sugar. An infant who 
vomits often should not usually be fed at shorter intervals 
than four hours, even if only a few weeks old. If consider- 
able quantities are ejected almost immediately after feeding, 



INFANT FEEDING 587 

it is generally because too much food has been given. A 
diminution in the amount of food should bring about im- 
mediate improvement. When the fat is in excess, there is 
vomiting or frequent regurgitation of curdled milk, often 
long after feeding. Cream mixtures or top-milk mixtures 
should not be used. If this is not sufficient, the fat should 
be still further reduced by using less milk or by partially 
skimming the milk. A return to the former diet should be 
gradual and for some time neither maltose nor cane sugar 
should be given. 

Other causes must be considered also. The child may be 
moved about too much or sometimes the clothing may be too 
tight. More often this frequent regurgitation of food soon 
after feeding is in consequence of swallowed air which the 
child has taken with his bottle. This is more likely to be the 
case when an infant is fed while lying upon the back and 
when taking his food very slowly owing to a very small hole 
in the nipple. He is unable to expel the gas in that position, 
but if lifted to the erect position or placed over the shoulder 
once or twice during the feeding or after it, he will often 
bring up a large amount of gas, after which the vomiting 
ceases. 

Constipation. — The principal causes of constipation refer- 
able to the food are, too small an amount of carbohydrates, 
and too small an amount of total solids. Habit and general 
training are also important factors. Sterilization, and to a 
slight degree pasteurization, cause milk to be somewhat con- 
stipating. During the first few weeks, if the food is rather 
small in amount, there is often a species of constipation pres- 
ent which is simply the result of the low total solids in the 
food given. The bowels may move every day, sometimes 
even twice a day, but the stools are often small and rather 
dry. As the proportions of all the elements of the food are 
gradually increased this form of constipation passes away. 
Mothers and physicians often expect that the bottle-fed in- 
fant during his first one or two months will have the two or 
three large stools daily to which they have been accustomed 



588 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

with healthy breast-fed infants, but finding instead only one 
movement a day, and that small and sometimes dry, they re- 
sort to laxatives or enema, and by their use really cause 
much of the trouble they are seeking to remove. If milk mix- 
tures are made up without the addition of carbohydrates, 
constipation frequently results. This is often due to the 
alteration in the reaction of the contents of the intestines 
brought about by putrefaction of the protein. 

Milk sugar is somewhat laxative and if a smaller amount 
is being used the raising of the proportion of this ingredient 
as high as 7 per cent will often be all that is needed. Maltose 
preparations are also laxative in their effects and may be 
substituted wholly or in part for milk sugar. Their use will 
be more fully discussed later. They should not be given if 
there is vomiting. Cereal gruels, especially oatmeal, also 
have a favorable influence upon constipation. 

Colic and Flatulence. — The habitual colic of early infancy 
may occur with any form of intestinal indigestion ; its causes 
therefore are varied. Colic and flatulence are especially com- 
mon in infants who suffer from constipation. Excessive 
flatulence may occur also when cereal gruels are added to 
the milk of young infants, particularly if the amount is 
large. If symptoms are severe a reduction in all the elements 
of the food may be necessary. 

"Curds" in the Stools. — The undigested masses appearing 
in the stools of infants taking milk are usually spoken of as 
"curds." These may be small, soft and white, and may make 
up a large part of the loose stool. An excess of mucus is 
usually present. Such masses are composed almost entirely 
of fat. There are also seen, but much less frequently, larger, 
smooth, hard masses of a yellowish-brown color, but white 
on section. They are generally present in small numbers in a 
stool, the rest of which may be quite normal. These hard or 
"bean curds," so called from their resemblance to lima beans, 
are composed chiefly of protein, usually with an envelope of 
fat. They are undoubtedly formed in the stomach, where 
the casein coagulates into masses, some of which are so firm 



INFANT FEEDING 589 

and hard that they pass the intestine without being digested. 
Curds of this description are not often seen unless the pro- 
portion of casein in the food is high and the milk is given 
raw. 

Curds of the first variety, if numerous, call for a consid- 
erable reduction in the amount of fat. The large, smooth, 
hard curds, if numerous and persistent, may usually be made 
to disappear by boiling the. milk. This causes the precipita- 
tion of the casein to occur in smaller masses, which are more 
readily attacked by the gastric and intestinal secretions. 

Loose, Green, or Yellowish-green Stools of a Sour 
Odor. — These are usually due to too much sugar, especially 
lactose, sometimes also to an excess of fat. The number of 
stools is usually from two to five daily. In appearance the 
stools resemble thin scrambled eggs. Stools such as those 
described are often seen in nursing infants as well as in those 
artificially fed and the condition is not incompatible with 
steady and regular gain in weight. After it has persisted any 
length of time, mucus is regularly present. 

Large, Dry, Light-colored Stools. — Such stools are seen 
only if infants are fed preponderately or entirely upon cow's 
milk. The bowels are constipated and the stools may not be 
passed oftener than once in forty-eight hours. They are 
relatively large, however, and are so dry that the diaper may 
be hardly soiled. In addition, they are putty-colored or 
grayish-green and are very foul with the odor of putrefac- 
tion. On analysis they are found to be alkaline in reaction 
and to contain a large proportion cf calcium and magnesium 
soaps. For a time, infants with such stools may improve and 
gain in weight. After a time, however, they cease gaining 
and eventually lose weight while anemia of increasing sev- 
erity appears and eventually a condition of marasmus may 
develop. To this condition the name Milchnahrschaden has 
been given by Czerny, who believed that an excess of fat 
in the diet was responsible for it. It is probably due not so 
much to an excess of fat as to an insufficient amount of car- 
bohydrates. In the absence of this latter, putrefaction of the 



590 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

protein goes on unchecked. This accounts for the character 
of the stools. It is the insufficient amount of carbohydrates 
that is chiefly responsible for the symptoms. Many infants 
may take diluted whole milk without additional carbohydrate 
and never show such symptoms, but some are rapidly and 
seriously affected by the absence of carbohydrates. 

The condition is readily amenable to treatment. The indi- 
cations are to diminish the milk, if this has been in excess, 
and to add sugar alone or sugar and some cereal. The mere 
addition of milk sugar or cane sugar in the quantities usu- 
ally given may be sufficient. At times, however, even when 
given in amounts up to the point of tolerance, no improve- 
ment is seen. It is then advantageous to give a preparation 
of maltose in the form of one of the malt soups, with wheat 
or barley flour in addition. The improvement is seen at once. 
The stools become acid in reaction, soft and brownish; the 
general condition shows a distinct amelioration and gain in 
weight again occurs. 

No Gain in Weight without evident Symptoms of Indi- 
gestion. — This is sometimes due to too little or too weak 
food, the child usually manifesting signs of hunger. Occa- 
sionally it is due to the fact that the food has been too con- 
centrated or that too much fat has been given. In the latter 
case it frequently happens that the appetite is much reduced, 
so that the infant takes perhaps less than half his usual al- 
lowance. Too frequent feeding and the practice of con- 
stantly coaxing the infant to take more food often produces 
the same aversion to food. It is much better to offer food 
only at four-hour intervals and take away the bottle as soon 
as the child shows that he does not want more. 



INFANT FEEDING 



59* 



3Q1VA 3IH01V3 
S3HI1XXIH 30 



fa 















CO 







W 


< 


H 


OS 


H 




p 


z 


2 


H 


w 
u 


c 


i 


□4 

w 

PM 



65 

pi 

< 
o 
5 



iXt^OcoO\»J^CMO\C\lii">r^O\r^OC£J 



O'-ni-ooioOtooiooO'-oOOO 

mtNNOCMifiNONiOi^NCC(N 

' ,-J ,-;,-«" ,-h' <\i c\i c\i cvi c\i c; c*3 co" 



oooooooooooooc^o 
qqw)qqqqqqQqq>noN 



8000000'-O ir5l oto Lr ^V 0l/ ^0 
^inq^ioioNhh^^^^^ 
*-* cm' eg ci ^i cri i co «tj <""> <"0 *tj «r> co ro co 



sanoH j;^ xi 

SDXKI333 30 'OX 



sancm 'soxia333 

N MX33 SXVAH3XXI 



S3DXQ0 '9X1(1333 
HDV3 30 XXflOKV 



S3I1JX003SV3X 

H3A33 'avonsj 



33XVM aanoa 

30 "ZO 



ATI3f A33HV9 

•zo 



H3XVAY A31HV3 

•zo 



2TIIK TCOXXOS 
30 "ZO* 



3TIIW 30X 
30 "ZO* 



OOaoONNN^O^vOOOOiOi^ 



C^CMCM c ^ f O c ^CO c ^ f< ^ c ^coCOcort-T^- 



NfS N£) N^» 

'-"^HCgcNicoco^-Lovot^oooooooo 






00 NQOsOOSOO\0)SQO 

OOOcOOOr^CMCVlvo^cocO 



Tf to IO LO IO <N CM 



S^-S^- \<N NO0\fS\0ONO0XTfsO0 Nf^T 1 1> 

rH^^fO^-xO^OoioOfOvOOO g 



\O0S»Nr}-N00\TtXrJ-\0)\T}-\Tt\O0N«)NS0 N«- > 



U4if1111lflflil 

000 00< 300CC£P 

~E£Ee~ 

.CCC 



^ £ S £ E £ e 



P3H 






000000000000 



3 rt 



rt 

.5 c 

o 
c 

~:* 

rt O 



5=: 



Ewwawwwwww WW WWW 



G -G 



tn (fl 

5 " 



cog 

St 

e 



« £ 



11 



la 

2 is 

"^5 



* 1 

G • 2 

E.E2 

rt >, w 

bja > 

« +■ rt 
Eli - 



<n •_ c ^ 
C U £ "K 

Stl x ° 

°£ g« 

B»S ■ 

— . c. d 

*- ^ c Js 

1- 5 n 



'.S-g 



m 3 ° rt« 



6 _ 

O S hJ h u 



592 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

Scurvy. 1 — Scurvy is a disease caused by a lack of 
certain elements in the food. The condition is rare in breast- 
fed babies or those fed on raw milk, but is found chiefly in 
artificially-fed babies who have lived for long periods on 
sterilized or proprietary foods. Scurvy may be prevented 
and cured by the feeding of fresh fruit and vegetable juices 
in addition to the milk. 

Rickets. — Rickets is a disease characterized by mal- 
nutrition of the bones which frequently results in deform- 
ities. The disease is probably due to a diet deficiency but 
whether it is the lack of mineral substances, especially lime, 
or the A vitamine or both is still an open question. A diet 
which supplies both these food constituents proves beneficial. 
Cod liver oil has a remarkable curative effect. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 
INFANT FEEDING 

1. Give reasons why a baby should be breast-fed if possible. 

2. What is colostrum milk? 

3. What precautions should be taken both for child and mother in 
nursing? What care should be taken of the breasts? 

4. How often should the baby be fed? How long should be the feed- 
ing interval? 

5. What is the average rate of gain for the baby? 

6. What kind of milk would you select for feeding a baby by 
bottle ? 

7. Describe pasteurization of milk. 

8. Compare the composition of cow's milk and human milk. 

9. Why is cow's milk modified when fed to infants? 

10. How may a milk formula be calculated? 

11. When is top milk used in infant feeding? 

12. What precautions are necessary in the preparation of modified 
milk? 

13. Give directions for feeding from the bottle. 

14. What dietary precautions should be used when using pasteurized 
milk? 

15. When should a baby be weaned? 

16. How may constipation be counteracted? 

17. What is the dietetic treatment for any form of indigestion? 

18. How may scurvy be prevented? 



1 "Infant Care," U. S. Department of Labor, Children's Bureau, Care of 
Children's Series No. 2. Bureau Publication No. 8, Revised 1922. 



CHAPTER XXX 

THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 

The baby is normally weaned sometime between the ninth 
and twelfth months, when he is given cow's milk diluted 
with water or cereal gruel to suit his digestive powers, 
strained fruit juice and a little &gg yolk. The tgg yolk 
is necessary to supply iron, in which milk is poor. A baby 
is born with a reserve store of iron in his body sufficient, 
together with the small amount in milk, to meet his needs 
through the greater part of the first year. As soon as his 
teeth come he should have toast, stale bread or zwieback 
to massage teeth and gums and to teach him to chew. By 
the time he is a year old he can usually take whole milk 
undiluted, strained cereal jelly, fruit juice, egg yolk and 
dry bread. 

The Diet for a Child During the Second Year Should 
Include : 

Milk One quart a day. This will supply a large part of his 

energy requirement of protein, calcium, phosphorous 
and vitamines and is easy to digest. 

Cereals Cooked, strained and served with milk but no sugar. 

The finer varieties, such as cream of wheat, should 
be cooked from 4 to 6 hours ; rolled oats and other 
coarse cereals should be cooked 12 hours. From 
Yz to 1 ounce can be given in a day, in one or two 
meals. 

Fruit juice ...1 to 3 tablespoons, strained and given between meals. 

Egg Yolk Not more than one a day. This may be very slightly 

beaten and given from a spoon, diluted with water or 
orange juice if desired. It is better not to give the 
whole egg because the protein in the diet is already 
sufficiently high if a quart of milk and cereal are 
used. White of egg furnishes practically no iron. 

Bread Which must be stale, thoroughly toasted or zwieback. 

593 



594 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

Vegetables Such as spinach, peas, carrots, potatoes and asparagus 

tips, should be introduced in the latter part of the 
year. The liking for vegetables can best be brought 
about by first using each vegetable as a flavoring in 
milk. These should be cooked and put through a 
sieve, seasoned with a little salt and served either 
plain or thinned with milk. They are valuable for 
their mineral matter and vitamines and it is important 
that children be early taught to eat all kinds. 

From this short list of foods the requirements of the 
child for energy, protein, mineral matter and vitamines can 
be met and no other foods should be given lest the sensitive 
digestive tract be overtaxed. 

Throughout the growing period every child should have a 
quart of milk a day, if possible and never less than a pint. 
During the third and fourth years most of it will be drunk, 
but as the child grows older more of it can be used in simple 
recipes such as cream soups, white sauce for vegetables, 
cereal puddings (rice, cornmeal, bread, tapioca, farina) 
junket, blanc-mange, homemade ice creams, custards, milk 
toast, etc. 

Cereals, preferably hot, should be a part of every child's 
breakfast, and a cereal of a different character can be used 
in the menu for the evening meal. If rolled oats is served 
at breakfast, a bowl of steamed rice or cream of wheat with 
raisins will make an attractive supper dish. Cereals are 
bland, easily digested and a fairly rich source of fuel, 
protein and mineral matter. Cooked in milk instead of 
water they make it possible to conceal the flavor of milk 
from a child who dislikes it. They need not be strained 
after a child is two years old and should be served without 
sugar. 

Fruits should be given once or twice a day. The pulp 
as well as the juice of any cooked ripe, fresh fruit and of 
prunes, dates and other mild dried fruit, cooked slowly with- 
out sugar, may be used. By the time a child is six years old 
raw fruits may be given safely if perfectly ripe and free from 
skin and seeds. Raw bananas are not a good food for little 
children because the texture of the fruit makes thorough 






THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 595 

mastication difficult, but may be given in moderation if 
care is taken to see that they are thoroughly ripe. 

The variety of vegetables should be increased to include 
all except those strong in flavor or coarse in texture, such 
as parsnips and turnips in particular, and all old vegetables 
in general. They should be cooked and mashed but need not 
be put through a sieve. 

An egg should be provided daily if expense permits, soft 
cooked in any way or combined with milk in custard, tapioca 
cream, etc. If eggs cannot be given so often, oatmeal and 
other whole grain cereals, whole wheat and graham bread 
and green vegetables must be liberally used to insure an ade- 
quate supply of iron. 

The bread for little children should always be dry or 
hard. Muffins, biscuits and other hot breads, and freshly 
baked bread are too difficult to digest and do not develop 
the habit of thorough mastication. 

There is a difference of opinion as to when meat should be 
introduced into the diet of children. Dr. Mary Swartz 
Rose 1 of the Department of Nutrition in Columbia Uni- 
versity says : 

"With milk freely supplied and an average of one egg 
a day, there is no call for the introduction of meat into 
the diet until after a child is seven years old, and on the 
other hand there are several good reasons for withholding 
it during these early years. In the first place, meat is of all 
protein foods most liable to putrefaction in the intestine, 
and experiments indicate that the younger the child the 
more speedily these products of putrefaction develop when 
meat is fed. Since milk feeding will cause the signs of 
putrefaction to disappear and meat protein is no better 
for growth than milk protein, the advantage is decidedly 
with the milk rather than with the meat. 

"Another reason for withholding meat is that it naturally 
tends to displace milk on account of its higher flavor. It 

w 1 ^^? Swartz Rose, Ph.D., "Feeding the Family," Macmillan Co., New 
York City, 1921. 



596 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

is also much poorer in ash constituents than milk, being de- 
ficient in calcium, of which milk is the most important 
source. A third reason is that the stimulating extractives in 
meat, which may be quite useful to a jaded adult, should not 
be used to whip up the sensitive growing organism, which 
when healthy is far better off without stimulants of any 
kind. The two chief advantages of meat are that it re- 
quires mastication and exercises the chewing apparatus 
and that it is a useful source of iron. But dry bread makes 
excellent chewing material, with none of the disadvantages of 
meat, while eggs and green vegetables will supply iron in 
forms believed to be more useful to the child, aside from 
the fact that the intestinal putrefaction of meat seriously 
interferes with the utilization of its iron." 

Number of Meals. — During the second and third years 
four meals a day are necessary with the food about equally 
distributed between them. Children of four, five and six 
years should have three full meals with a light mid-morning 
lunch of milk or crackers and milk. When the child begins 
to go to school a mid-morning lunch is not always possible. 
When it can be provided it has been shown to be well worth 
while both from the standpoint of the child's health and 
of improved attention and ability in the schoolroom. For 
older children three meals a day are usually sufficient. If 
the child is hungry after school he may be given a glass of 
milk or a piece of bread and butter. Sweet cookies, choco- 
late, etc., should not be permitted, for they tempt him to eat 
for the sake of the taste alone and destroy his appetite for 
his evening meal. 

Meals for little children should be served with the same 
strict attention to regularity that is given to the baby, for 
regularity is an exceedingly important factor in promoting 
good digestion. 

The following models for children's meals are quoted 
from a pamphlet, "The Children's Food," by Mary S. Rose. 1 

1 Mary Swartz Rose, Ph. D., "The Children's Food." Published by Thfc 
Emergency Committee of the American Home Economics Association. 



THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 597 

Diet for an Average Healthy Child 1 

CHILDREN ONE AND ONE- HALF TO TWO YEARS 

6:00 A. M. 1 cup of warm milk. 

8:30 A. M. 2 tablespoonfuls cf prune pulp and juice. 

9:30 A. M. 1 cup of warm milk. 

l /i cup well-cooked cereal (served with part of the 
milk). 
1 small slice of toast. 

1 :30 P. M. 1 cup of warm milk. 

1 teaspoonful of egg yolk (in a little of the milk). 
1 slice of bread. 

1 teaspoonful of sifted and salted spinach, carrots or 
peas. 

5 :30 P. M. 1 cup of warm milk. 

J/2 cup well-cooked cereal (served with part of the 
milk). 
1 small slice of toast. 

10:30 P. M. 1 cup of warm milk. (This need not be given if the 
child sleeps through the night without it.) 

If this food does not satisfy, give a little more milk, and bread, a 
teaspoonful of butter spread on the bread, or more cereal. Do not 
add other kinds of food. 

CHILDREN TWO TO FOUR YEARS 

7:00 A. M. Juice of one orange or mashed pulp of 1 baked banana 
or % cup of apple-sauce (from fresh or dried apples). 
Bowl of well-cooked oatmeal, with milk. 
1 or 2 slices of lightly buttered toast. 
1 cup of milk to drink. 

10:30 A. M. 1 cup of milk with or without one slice of bread. 

1 :00 P. M. Bowl of soup made with milk and one or two table- 
spoons of vegetable pulp. 

1 egg yolk on toast or with 1 small baked potato. 
1 or 2 slices of bread lightly buttered. 
1 small cup of rice or cornstarch pudding, served with 
milk. 

5 :30 P. M. Bowl of steamed rice, or other cereal with milk. 
1 or 2 slices of lightly buttered toast or bread. 
1 cup of milk to drink. 

CHILDREN FOUR TO EIGHT YEARS 

7 :00 A. M. 4 or 5 stewed prunes or 1 baked banana or y 2 cup 
stewed fruit (fresh or dried). 

^Iary Swartz Rose, Ph.D., "The Children's Food." Published by The 
Emergency Committee of the American Home Economics Association. 



598 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

Bowl of well-cooked cereal (oatmeal hominy, farina or 

cornmeal) with milk. 
2 slices lightly buttered toast. 
1 cup of milk to drink. 

12:30 P. M. Bowl of split pea soup with crisp crackers. 

1 baked potato or dish of creamed macaroni or boiled 
rice. 

Small serving of some green vegetable or of stewed 

fruit when possible. 
Cup of custard or bread pudding with milk. 

5 :30 P. M. Scrambled egg on toast or bowl of cereal with dates 

and milk. 
Bread and butter. 

2 small plain cookies. 
Cup of milk to drink. 

CHILDREN EIGHT TO TWELVE YEARS 

7 :00 A. M. y 2 orange or 4 dates. 
Oatmeal with milk. 
Toast, lightly buttered. 
Milk to drink (may be made into cocoa). 

12:30 P. M. Creamed macaroni sprinkled with grated cheese or 
stewed navy beans with bread sticks, or split peas baked 
with bacon. 
Bread and butter. 

Stewed figs, raisins or fresh fruit in season. 
Gingerbread. 
Milk to drink. 

6 :00 P. M. Beef stew with potatoes and carrots. 

Bread and butter. 

Tapioca pudding with milk. 

Milk to drink. 

The following table gives the energy requirement of chil- 
dren per pound of body weight : 



AGE IN YEARS CALORIES PER POUND 

Under 1 45 

1-2 45-40 

2-5 40-36 

6-9 36-32 

10-13 34-30 

14-17 30-23 



THE FEEDIXG OF YOUNG CHILDREX 599 

The Under-nourished Child. — The problem of the un- 
dernourished child is a very serious one. The number of 
children suffering from under-nutrition is so great, its ef- 
fects so far reaching, that the question is everywhere today 
receiving the attention of physicians, nurses and others in- 
terested in the welfare of children. 

The most conspicuous symptom of malnutrition is under- 
weight. This may or may not be accompanied by other 
signs of a low nutritive condition. The under-nourished 
child is usually pale though his complexion may be sallow 
or muddy. He has blue ridges or circles under his eyes. 
His muscles are poorly developed, his flesh flabby, his car- 
riage poor, his hair rough and lifeless. He may be listless 
and unresponsive or restless, irritable and nervous. There 
are all degrees of under-nutrition ranging from simple under- 
weight to a severe case including several or all of the above 
symptoms. The under-nourished child is frequently further 
handicapped by bad tonsils, adenoids or a tubercular con- 
dition. 

From the standpoint of weight, a child is considered to 
be under-nourished if he is 10% or more below the normal 
weight for his height and age. Some authorities regard 7% 
below normal weight as indicating a condition of malnutri- 
tion. For example, a boy of nine who is 50 inches tall should 
weight 60 pounds according to the tables of average weight 
and height for boys of that age. If he weighs 50 pounds he 
is 10 pounds or 16% underweight. 

Standards for weight and height of children of different 
ages are given on the following page. 



6oo 



DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



AVERAGE WEIGHT AND HEIGHT OF CHILDREN 


FROM BIRTH TO FIFTH YEAR 1 




BOYS 


GIRLS 


AGE 








Height 


Weight 


Height 


Weight 




Inches 


Pounds 


Inches 


Pounds 


Birth 


20.6 


7.6 


20.5 


7.16 


3 mos. 


23/ 


13 






6 " 


26/ 


18 


257/ 


163/ 


7 " 


27% 


19/ 


26/ 


173/ 


8 " 


275/s 


1934 


27 


18/ 


9 " 


2SV & 


2034 


275/ 


19/ 


10 " 


28/ 


20% 


277/ 8 


19/ 


11 " 


29 


2134 


283/ 8 


20/ 


12 " 


293/g 


217/ 


287/ 8 


203/ 


13 " 


297/ 8 


22j/ 8 


293/ 


21 


14 " 


30/ 


23 


29/ 


215/ 


15 * 


3034 


235/ 


30/ 


217/ 


16 " 


31/ 8 


24/ 


30/ 


225/ 


17 " 


313^ 


24/ 


303/ 


227/ 


18 " 


3134 


245/ 


31/ 


233/ 


19 " 


324 


25/ 


31/ 


2334 


20 " 


325/ 8 


2534 


32 


24/ 


21 " 


327/ 8 


2534 


32/ 


243/ 


22 " 


334 


267/ 8 


325/ 


25/ 


23 " 


335/ 


27 


32% 


255/ 


24 " 


3334 


27/ 


333/ 


263/ 


25 M 


34 


277/ 8 


S3V 4 


267/ 


26 " 


34/ 


28/ 


337/ 


27/ 


27 " 


3434 


29 


337/ 


27/ 


28 " 


35/ 


29/ 


345/ 


273/ 


29 " 


3534 


29/ 


343/ 


273/ 


30 " 


353^ 


29/ 


347/ 


28/ 


31 " 


35/ 


30/ 


35/ 


283/ 


32 " • 


36 


3C5/ 


353/ 


29 


33 " 


36/ 


3C54 


355/ 


29/ 


34 u 


36/ 


31/ 


36y 2 


30/ 


35 " 


3634 


3174 


36/ 


30/ 


36 " 


37Vs 


32/ 


363/ 


30/ 


37 " 


373/ 8 


32/ 


364 


303/ 


38 " 


37y 2 


323/ 8 


37 


31 


39 " 


37j/ 8 


33Vs 


37y 4 


315/ 


40 " 


38/ 


33/ 


37/ 


32 


41 " 


3854 


335/ 


3734 


32/ 


42 " 


3854 


3334 


38 


32/ 


43 " 


3834 


3334 


38/ 


323/ 


44 " 


38% 


34/ 


38/ 


33 


45 " 


39 


34/ 


38/ 


33% 


46 " 


39 


3434 


383/ 


33/ 


47 " 


39/ 


353/ 


38/ 


33y 2 


48 " 


39/ 


35/ 


39 


33y 4 


5 yrs. 


41.6 


41.1 


41.3 


39.7 



1 Reprinted by permission of the Children' 
of Labor. 



Bureau, United States Department 



THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 60 1 



AVERAGE WEIGHT AND HEIGHT OF BOYS AT DIFFERENT AGES.* 































m 


Height 


CO 


to 


CO 


co 


CO 


2 


CO 

hi 


CO 

u 


1- 


to 
u 




u 


■a 

u 


00 


Inches. 


u 


u 


u 

>> 


U 


£ 





;►» 




£ 


>> 

^1- 


10 


>> 


r^ to 




10 


\o 


rx 


00 


On 
















39 


35 


36 


37 
























40 


37 


38 


39 
























41 


39 


40 


41 
























42 


41 


42 


43 


44 






















43 


43 


44 


45 


46 






















44 


45 


46 


46 


47 






















45 


47 


47 


48 


48 


49 




















46 


48 


49 


50 


50 


51 




















47 




51 


52 j 52 


53 54 


















48 




53 


54! 55 


55i56 


57 
















49 




55 


56 j 57 


58 158 


59 
















50 






58 


59 


60 60 


61 


62 














51 






60 


61 


62 63 


64 


65 














52 






62 


63 


64 65 


67 


68 














53 








66 


67 68 


69 


70 


71 












54 








69 


70 71 


72 


73 


74 












55 










73 74 


75 


76 


77 


78 










56 










77 


78 


79 


80 


81 


82 










57 












81 


82 


83 


84 


85 


86 








58 












84 


85 


86 


87 


88 


90 


91 






59 












87 


88 


89 


90 


92 


94 


96 


97 




60 












91 


92 


93 


94 


97 


99 


101 


102 




61 














95 


97 


99 


102 


104 


106 


108 


110 


62 














100 


102 


104 


106 


109 


111 


113 


116 


63 














105 


107 


109 


111 


114 


115 


117 


119 


64 
















113 


115 


117 


118 


119 


120 


122, 


65 


















120 


122 


123 


124 


125 


126 


66 


















125 


126 


127 


128 


129 


130 


67 


















130 


131 


132 


133 


134 


135 


68 


















134 


135 


136 


137 


138 


139 


69 


















138 


139 


140 


141 


142 


143 


70 




















142 


144 


145 


146 


147 


71 




















147 


149 


150 


151 


152 


72 




















152 


154 


155 


156 


157 


73 




















157 


159 


160 


161 


162 


74 




















162 


164 


165 


166 


167 


75 






















169 


170 


171 


172 


76 






















174 


175 


176 


177 



* R eprinted by permission of Thomas D. Wood, M.D., Professor of Physical 
Education, Teachers College, Columbia University. 



602 



DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



AVERAGE WEIGHT AND HEIGHT OF GIRLS AT DIFFERENT AGES.* 





J.l.l. 


.', 


en 


09 


1 

00 


t ! 


en 


in en 


en 


Height 


09 CO 09 09 


en i- 


- 


I* 






u 


u u 


Ih 




|4 1* |h Ih 


i- >. 


>^ 


>. 


>> 


>> 


>> 


>> >> 


>> 


Inches. 


>>>>>>>>>» 






















CM 


<~o "*■ 


u~> 


\0 r^ 


oo 




in \o n co | a 1 h 


I " H 


1-1 


»-l — 1 


1-1 rt ""' 


*~' 


39 


34 


35 


36 
























40 


36 


37 


38 
























41 


38 


39 


40 
























42 


40 


41 


42 


43 






















43 


42 


42 


43 


44 






















44 


44 


45 


45 


46 






















45 


46 


47 


47 


48 


49 




















46 


48 


48 


49 


50 


51 




















47 




49 


50 


51 


52 


53 


















48 




51 


52 


53 


54 


55 


56 
















49 




53 


54 


55 


56 


57 


58 
















50 






56 


57 


58 


59 


60 


61 














51 






59 


60 


61 


62 


63 


64 














52 






62 


63 


64 


65 


66 


67 














53 








66 


67 


68 


68 


69 


70 












54 








68 


69 


70 


71 


72 


73 












55 










72 


73 


74 


75 


76 


77 










56 










76 


77 


78 


79 


80 


81 










57 












81 


82 


83 


84 


85 


86 








58 












85 


86 


87 


88 


89 


90 


91 






59 












89 


90 


91 


93 


94 


95 


96 


98 




60 














94 


95 


97 


99 


100 


102 


104 


106 


61 














99 


101 


102 


104 


106 


108 


109 


111 


62 














104 


106 


107 


109 


111 


113 


114 


115 


63 














109 


111 


112 


113 


115 


117 


118 


119 


64 
















115 


117 


118 


119 


120 


121 


123 


65 
















117 


119 


120 


122 


123 


124 


125 


66 
















119 


121 


122 


124 


126 


127 


128 


67 


















124 


126 


127 


128 


129 


130 


68 


















126 


I 128 


130 


132 


133 


134 


69 


















129 


131 


133 


135 


136 


137 


70 




















134 


136 


138 


139 


140 


71 




















138 


140 


142 


143 


144 


72 




















145 


147 


148 


149 



•Reprinted by permission of Thomas D. Wood, M.D., Professor of Physical 
Education. Teachers College, Columbia University. 



THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 603 

The School Lunch 

In many cases the child must carry his noon meal to 
school. A box lunch must be planned with thought and 
carefully prepared if the child's good digestion and health 
are to be maintained. The choice of dishes is necessarily 
limited and monotony difficult to avoid, and yet with care 
some variety is possible. The following suggestions are 
offered for box lunches to be carried from home : 

Sandwiches White, graham, whole wheat, raisin, rye and 

brown bread or Wheatsworth crackers may be 
used. 

Fillings may be: 

Peanut butter ....Thinned with salad dressing or cream or honey. 

Nuts Ground or chopped finely and mixed with salad 

dressing. Finely chopped celery, dates or raisins 
may be added, or cottage or cream cheese. 

Lettuce Spread with a little salad dressing. 

Lean meat Beef, lamb, tongue, ham, chicken, sliced thin or 

chopped and moistened with salad dressing. 

Fish Salmon, tuna or sardines, moistened with salad 

dressing or lemon juice. 

Eggs Hard cooked and chopped and mixed with a little 

salad dressing. 

Cheese American or cottage or cream or pimento. 

Jelly Of various kinds or plain bread and butter sand- 
wiches. 

Fruit Apples, bananas, oranges. 

Prunes and dates.. Plain or stuffed with cheese or nuts. 

Cooked fruit Baked apples, stewed prunes or other cooked fruit 

without too much juice can be carried in custard 
cups or waxed paper containers. 

Cake Plain or sponge cake. Better not rich cake with 

frosting. 

Puddings Rice, bread, cornstarch and other simple puddings 

packed in custard cups. 

Milk Milk may be carried in small bottles. 

Sweet Chocolate. .An occasional small cake. 

Crackers Wheatsworth or graham crackers and sweet crack- 
ers of various kinds. 

Cookies Plain, oatmeal and molasses. 



604 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



SAMPLE MENUS FOR LUNCH BOXES 

1. Plain bread and butter sandwiches or Wheatsworth crackers. 
Prunes stuffed with nuts and cottage cheese. 

Apple. 

Cup custard. 

2. Peanut butter sandwiches. 
Lettuce sandwiches. 

Cup apple sauce. 
Oatmeal cookie. 

3. Brown bread and cottage cheese sandwiches. 
Celery, with small package of salt. 

Dates. 
Orange. 

4. Chopped meat sandwiches. 
Jelly sandwiches. 

Baked apple stuffed with nuts and raisins. 
Sponge cake. 

Hot Dishes Served at School. — The child's lunch is 
greatly improved if it is supplemented by one or more hot 
dishes served at school. The following is a list of hot dishes 
intended to supplement the lunch brought from home. It 
will be noticed that nearly all of the recipes contain milk. 

Suggestions for simple hot dishes which can be prepared 
with limited equipment and a small expenditure of time: 

Cocoa. Rice and tomatoes. 

Cream soups — corn, celery, Scrambled eggs. 

tomato, bean, baked bean, Creamed eggs. 

potato, pea, spinach, etc. Eggs — goldenrod. 

Macaroni and cheese. Boiled rice with raisins. 

Macaroni and tomatoes. Cornstarch pudding. 

Rice and cheese. Milk toast. 

The following references will be found helpful in plan- 
ning box lunches and menus for the school lunchroom : 

"School Lunches." Caroline Hunt and Mabel Ward. 
Farmers' Bulletin 712. U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

"Diet for the School Child." Department of the Interior. 
Bureau of Education. Health Education No. 2. Price 5 cents. 

"The Lunch Hour at School." Department of the Interior. 
Bureau of Education. Health Education No. 7. Price 5 cents. 

"The Rural Hot Lunch and the Nutrition of the Rural 



THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 605 

Child." Mary G. McCormick. University of the State of 
New York Bulletin, Albany, No. 696. 

"New York Bulletin," Albany, No. 696. 

"The School Lunch." Mary Peck. University of Illinois. 
College of Agriculture, Urbana, Illinois. Extension circular 
No. 41. 

Diet for the Adolescent 

The period of adolescence is one of rapid development in 
many ways for both boys and girls. Boys especially are 
growing fast and as a rule are very active, hence their energy 
requirement is large, sometimes as high as 3500 calories or 
more than is required by many full-grown men. Girls 
need less fuel but have a special requirement for iron due 
to some loss from menstruation. The diet for both girls 
and boys should be simple and varied and should include 
liberal amounts of milk and vegetables, especially green 
vegetables and fruits. Rich meats, sauces, pastries and hot 
breads must be avoided. 

Regularity of meals is still important and the taking of 
candy, sodas, etc., between meals should be discouraged. 
Children should never be allowed to omit breakfast. It is 
practically impossible to meet the high food requirements of 
childhood with less than three meals a day and when break- 
fast is omitted under-nutrition is a frequent and natural re- 
sult. 

The appetite of young girls at this time is often poor or 
capricious. They may develop a distate for cereals, milk 
and other plain foods. Much may be done to tempt the girl 
to eat the foods which should be a part of her diet by serving 
them in attractive forms. Salads are almost always accept- 
able and a great variety of vegetables and fruits may be 
used in this way. The flavor of milk may be changed by 
serving it as cocoa or flavored with cereal coffee, or in pud- 
dings of various kinds, ice creams and sherbets, cream 
sauce for vegetables or by cooking breakfast cereals in milk 
instead of water. The addition of chopped dates, raisins, or 



6o6 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

prunes to cereals often makes them more acceptable to 
girls. Attention to color, garnishes and attractive ways of 
serving foods is necessary and a great deal may often be 
accomplished by interesting the girl herself in tne importance 
of eating wisely for her own. health. 

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 
YOUNG CHILDREN 

1. What foods should make up the diet of the child during the 

second year? 

2. Why is milk so important a food throughout the period of 

growth? 

3. Why are vegetables important? 

4. When should meat be introduced into the child's diet? 

5. Why should its use be restricted? 

6. How often should children from 5 to 6 be fed? 

7. Suggest the type of food to be included in child's school lunch. 

8. What dietary rules apply to the period of adolescence? 



CHAPTER XXXI 

DIET FOR OLD AGE 

Since there is a radical difference between a person merely 
old in years and one who is physiologically old no dietary 
can be constructed to suit the needs of all those of advanced 
years. As a man grows older his physical activity usually 
decreases and his energy requirement correspondingly les- 
sens. Since protein is no longer needed for growth but 
only for repair of wornout tissues the amount required will 
be lessened. In true old age there is, in addition to this, 
a gradual slowing up of all the body processes, resulting in 
a further decrease in the amount of food needed as well as 
a decreased power to digest and assimilate large quanities 
of food. When the teeth are lost mastication is impossible 
and all foods used must be those which do not require 
chewing. 
Food Needs for the Aged: 

1. The amount of food required is less than for an average adult of 
the same size. 

2. The amount of protein in the diet should be kept low. \]/ 2 calories 
per pound of body weight is sufficient for the body needs. Over- 
eating shoud be guarded against. 

3. The meals must be simple, emphasizing ease of digestion in the 
selection and preparation of foods. 

4. Four or five light meals are usually better than three meals a day. 
Kinds of Food to Use: 

Milk Served hot or cold, in weak cocoa or cafe au 

lait, ice cream, custards, cereal puddings, cream 
soups, etc. 

Lean Meats and Fish. Unless there is difficulty in the elimination of 
uric acid, may be eaten once a day. Bacon is 
also allowable. Clear soups and broths are 
stimulating and refreshing and may be used 
unless meat is contra-indicated. If there is a 
tendency to intestinal putrefaction meat of all 
kinds must be excluded. 
607 



608 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS - 

Eggs In all ways except fried. 

Cereals Thoroughly cooked. If mastication is possible, 

crisp shredded wheat biscuits, cornflakes, etc., 

may be served. 
Bread Preferably toasted. Freshly baked bread and 

hot breads of all kinds should be excluded. 

Vegetables Of almost any kind unless they are found to 

disagree. Onions, turnips, cooked cabbage and 
beans are apt to cause flatulence and are there- 
fore better excluded. Purees are an excellent 
way to serve vegetables. 

Fruits If ripe and thoroughly cooked. It may be 

necessary to strain them and to give only the 
juice and pulp of mild ripe fruits. 

Number of Meals 4 to 5. — A suggested schedule for 
meals is as follows: Breakfast at 7:30 or 8:00 A. M., 
luncheon at 12:30 or 1 :oo P. M., dinner at 6:00 P. M., a 
cup of hot milk or tea or broth on going to bed. 

Sometimes a cup of coffee or tea early in the morning be- 
fore arising is helpful. Tea, broth or other light nourishment 
in the afternoon often relieves fatigue and is a good prepara- 
tion for the evening meal. 

AVERAGE WEIGHT OF OLD MEN AND WOMEN 1 





MEN 


WOMEN 




AGE IN YEARS 


POUNDS 


POUNDS 




60 


144 


125 




70 


139 


125 




80 


135 


113 




90 


127 


109 





QUESTIONS FOR STUDY 

OLD AGE. 

1. Outline dietary rules for feeding in old age. 

2. How does the food requirement of the aged differ from that of 

the active adult ? 



1 From Bulletin No. 223. Office of Experiment Station, U. S. Department of 
Agriculture (calculated to pounds). 



INDEX TO RECIPES 

AND 

GENERAL INDEX 



A Real Help 



to 
Better 
Baking 



all 



The 
absolute 
purity, uniform 
strength ana keeping 
quality of Rumford make 
cooking results most dependable. 
The food is always wholesome and 
of that fine, even texture, sought for by 
good cooks. 



RUMFORD 

The Wboiesome 

Baking Powder 

is healthful, because it restores the nutritious proper- 
ties of which fine wheat flour has been deprived. 
It is economical because it does not cause waste of 
good material, and because of its reasonable cost. 

Rumford is a scientific preparation, being the result 
of extended research by the celebrated chemist Prof. 
E. N. Horsf ord, for many years Professor of Chemist- 
ry in Harvard University. 



Ask us to mail you FREE, a copy of "The 
Rumford Way of Cookery and Household 
Economy," compiled by Mrs. Janet M. Hill, 
and Mrs. Christine Frederick, Household 
Efficiency Engineer. 

RUMFORD COMPANY, 
Providence, 
R. I. 

H 76 4)9 



610 




55KINO 
!*PWDfg 




INDEX TO RECIPES 



Page 



Acid Beverages (See Bev- 
erages 
Acid Phosphate . 

Acid Phosphate Whey . 
Albumin Water (For 

Infants) 

Albumin, Plain 
Albuminous Beverages 

See Beverages 
Apples 

Apple Cuban Style . 
Tapioca 
" Water . . . 

Baked Apples . 

Stewed Apple Sauce . 
Apricot and Prune Sauce 
Arrowroot Gruel . 
Asparagus on Toast . 

Soup (Cream of) 

Boiled Asparagus 

Creamed Asparagus . 

B. 

Bacon, Broiled .... 
Curled Bacon .... 
Baked Custards (See Des- 
serts) 
Baking Powder Biscuit . 
Bananas Baked 

Banana Custard . 
Barley 

Barley Gruel (For In- 
fants) . 
Gruel with Broth 
" Jelly .... 
Water (For In- 
fants) . 
Basic Recipe for Sauce . 



301 
301 

306 
306 



248 
269 
303 
248 
248 
247 
199 
235 
184 
235 
235 



120 
120 



215 
248 
256 



199 
200 
203 



312 
206 



611 



Bavarian Cream . . 
Beef 
Beef Broth .... 
Egg-nog . . . 
" Jelly .... 
" Raw Sandwiches 
Broiled Beefsteak 
Maitre D'Hotel Butter 
Pan-Broiled Beef Cakes 
Roast Beef .... 
Scraped Beef (For In 
fants) .... 
Beef Preparations . 
Beef Juice (Infants) 
" Juice, Cold Process 

(For Infants) 
" Tea .... 
" Tea Frozen . 
" Tea with Hydro 
chloric Acid . 
Raw Beef Sandwiches 
Scraped Beef . 
Beet Greens .... 
Beverages .... 
Acid Beverages . 
Acid Phosphate 
Acid Phosphate Whey 
Apple Water . . 
Cream of Tartar Drink 
Currant Water . 
Effervescent Lemonade 
Egg Lemonade . 
Fruit Punch . 
Fruitade .... 
Grape Juice . 

Lemonade 
" Punch 
" Water . . 
Imperial Drink . 
Irish Moss Lemonade 



Page 
282 

128 
309 
130 
125 
117 
118 
118 
121 

125 
121 
123 

124 
124 
125 

124 
125 
125 
236 
297 
297 
301 
301 
303 
301 
303 
299 
300 
304 
300 

303 
303 
304 
302 
302 
299 



612 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Page 
Acid Beverages {continued) 



Jelly and Ice 
Lactose Lemonade 
Lemonade No. I . 
Lemonade No. II . 
Lemon Whey . 
Malted Milk Currant 

Jelly 

Malted Milk with Wine 
Orangeade No. I . 
Orangeade No. II . 
Rhubarb Water . . . 
Soda or Effervescent 

Lemonade 
Sugar Syrup . 
Tamarind Water . 
Tea Punch . 
Tutti-Frutti Punch 
Wine Whey . 
Albuminous Beverages 
Albumin Water (Plain) 
Albumin Water (For 

Infants) . 
Albuminized Clam 

Water .... 
Albuminized Milk . 
Orange 
Sherry 
Water 
Beef Egg-nog . . 
Coffee Egg-nog 
Egg Broth . . 

" Lemonade 
Egg-nog No. I . 
Egg-nog No. II 
Egg and Brandy . 
and Rum . 

" and Wine 
Grape Yolk . 
Junket Egg-nog 
Malted Milk and Egg 
Mulled Wine 
Stokes' Mixture 



Miscellaneous Beverages 315 



Cocoa (Lactose) 
Cocoa (Ind.) . 
Breakfast Cocoa 



302 
299 
298 
298 
300 

302 
302 
300 
300 
303 

299 
298 
303 
304 
305 
300 

305 
306 

306 

307 
307 
307 
308 
307 
309 
309 
308 
310 
308 
308 
310 
309 
310 

3ii 
309 
310 
3ii 
311 



321 
322 
321 



Malted Milk Cocoa 322 



Coffee (Lactose) 



320 



Miscellaneous Bever- 
ages {continued) 
Boiled Coffee 

" (Ind.) 

Filtered Coffee . . 

Malted Milk Coffee 

Percolator Coffee . 

Chocolate 

Sauce (For 
Ice Cream) 
Vienna Style 
Plain 
(Ind.) 

Special Non-Nutritive 
Beverages 
Bran Tea . 
Cinnamon Water 
Flaxseed Tea 
Ginger Tea . 
Herb Tea . . 
Licorice Tea 
Lime Water . 
Slippery Elm Tea 

Tea 

Russian Tea 
Starchy Beverages . 
Barley Water (For In 

fants) .... 
Bread Panada . 
Cracker Panada 
Crust Coffee 
Oatmeal Water 
Pearl Barley Water 

(For Infants) 
Rice Water . 
Toast Water . 
Birds (Note Poultry) 
Biscuit (See Bread) 
Blanc Mange . . . . 
Chocolate Blanc Mange 
(or Cornstarch Pud- 
ding) 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange 

Malted Milk Blanc 

Mange .... 

Boiled Frosting . . 

Bouillon, Clam 

Clam Bouillon Bisque 
Bran Biscuits . . . 



Page 



319 
320 
320 
320 
319 



291 
323 

2,22 
323 

323 
324 
324 
323 
325 
325 
324 
324 
324 
318 
319 
311 



312 
314 
314 
314 
313 

312 
313 
313 



263 



264 
266 

265 
227 
155 
156 
217 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



613 



Page 
215 
217 



Bran Bread . 
Bran Cakes . 
Bran and Cellu Flou 

Muffins . . . 
Bran Muffins . . 
Bran Tea 
Bran Washed . 
Brandy and Milk 
Bread .... 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

Boston Brown Bread 

Bran Biscuit (Diabetic) 

Bread .... 

Cakes (Diabetic) 

* Muffins . . . 

Cellu Flour Muffins . 

Cornmeal Gems . 

Entire Wheat Bread . 

Gluten Bread (Diabetic) 

Soy Bean Muffins 

Washed Bran (Diabetic) 

White Flour Bread . 

White Gems . . ... 

Whole Wheat or Graham 

Bread 

Bread or Cracker Crumbs 

Buttered 209 

Bread Panada .... 314 
Bread Pudding (See Des- 
serts) 
Bread Sauce for Game . 
Breakfast Foods . 

Boiled Rice .... 

Cornmeal Mush . . 

Hasty Pudding . . . 

Hominy and Dates . 

Oatmeal Mush (For 
Children and Invalids) 

Soy Bean Breakfast Food 
(Diabetic) 

Steamed Rice 
Broths . . 

Beef Broth . 

Beef Jelly . 

Broth with Grains 

Calf's Foot Jelly . 

Chicken Broth 

Chicken Jelly . . 

Clam Broth No. I 



218 
216 
324 
217 
183 
209 
215 
215 
217 
215 
217 
216 
218 
216 

214 
214 
218 
217 
213 
216 

214 



139 
204 
266 
204 
204 
205 

205 



• 205 

. 267 

. 126 

. 128 

. 130 

. 127 
129-130 

. 128 

- 130 

. 128 



Page 

Broths {continued) 
Clam Broth No. II . . 128 
Egg Broth (Milk) . . 308 
Broth (Hot Water) 129 
Broth .... 129 
Mutton Broth (For In- 
fant or Adult) ... 127 

Veal Broth 128 

Butter Balls .... 218 

Butter Cream . . . . 145 

Buttermilk (Bulgarian) . 179 

Buttermilk ( Lactone) . 179 
Buttered Cracker or 

Bread Crumbs . . . 209 



C. 



225 
227 
227 
227 
228 

228 
228 

228 
227 
226 



Cake 

Boiled Frosting . 

Cold Water Sponge Cake 

Frosting .... 

Ginger Bread . 

Gluten Nut Cake (Dia 

betic) 

Marguerite Wafers . 
Oatmeal Cookies (Dia- 
betic) . ., 
Plain Cake .... 
Sponge Cake .... 
Calf's Foot Jelly . . 129-130 
Carrots (See Vegetables) 

Boiled 236 

Creamed 236 

Casein-Calcium Milk . 180 

Caudle 202 

Cauliflower ( See Vege- 
tables) 
Celery 

Boiled 236 

Creamed 236 

Soup 185 

Soup (Diabetic) . . . 189 

Toast 221 

Cellu Flour 211 

Cellu Flour Muffins . . 218 
Cellu Flour Griddle Cakes 225 

Cereals 195 

Breakfast Food . . . 204 

Gruels 199 

Starchy Jellies . . . 203 



614 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Page 

Charlotte, Orange . . 283 
Cheese 

Cheese Wafers . . . 244 

Sandwiches .... 2.2$ 
Chicken (See Poultry) 
Chocolate Blanc Mange 

(or Cornstarch Pudding) 264 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 272 

Custard . . 257 

Ice Cream . . 288 

Sauce for Ice 

Cream . . 291 

Sponge . . . 283 

Vienna Style . 323 

Plain Chocolate . . . 322 

" Chocolate (Ind.) . 323 

Chops 

Chops Broiled in Paper 120 

French Chops . . . 119 

Lamb Chops Broiled . 119 

Mutton Chops . . . 118 

Pan-Broiled Chops . . 119 

Cinnamon Water . . . 324 

Milk ... 183 

Clams (See Shell Fish) 

Cocoa 307 

Breakfast Cocoa . . . 321 
Cocoa (Ind.) 322 
(Lac- 
tose) . . 321 
Cocoa Junket .... 263 
" (Lactose) 263 
Malted Milk Cocoa . . 322 
Codfish 
Creamed Codfish . . . 144 
Codfish (Dia- 
betic) . . 145 
Coffee 
Boiled Coffee .... 319 
Coffee (Ind.) . 320 
Coffee (Lactose) . . 320 
Egg-nog ... 309 
" Ice Cream . . 288 
" Jelly .... 279 
Filtered Coffee . . . 320 
Malted Milk Coffee . . 320 
Percolator Coffee . . 319 
Condensed Milk . . . 174 



Page 

Convalescent Treat . . 283 

Corn Soup 185 

Cornmeal Gems . . . 216 

Cornmeal Mush . . . 204 
Cornstarch Pudding (See 

Desserts) 
Crackers 

Bran Crackers . . . 224 
Cheese Wafers . . . 244 
Cracker Crumbs (but- 
tered) 209 

Cracker Gruel .... 200 

Panada . . . 314 

Pudding . . . 273 

Crisped Crackers . . . 191 

Delicious Crackers 

(Dates) 224 

Gluten Wafers (Diabetic) 224 

Marguerite Wafers . . 228 

Toasted Crackers . . 191 

Wheatsworth Whole 

Wheat Crackers . . 224 

Cranberry Jelly . . . 249 

Cranberry Sauce . . . 249 

Cream Sauce 

Cream Sauce (Diabetic) 240 

Basis Recipe for Sauces 206 

(Methods of Blending) 206 

Dutch Sauce .... 207 

Cream Sauce for Toast 
. . . . . . 220-221 

for Vege- 
tables . 239 
White Sauce for Fish . 140 
for Dia- 
betics 146, 184, 187 
for Maca- 
roni . 207 
for Scal- 
loped 

Dishes 239 

for Soup 184 

Cream of Tartar Drink . 301 

Cream (Whipped) . 274-275 

Croutons 191 

Crumbs (Buttered) . . 209 

Crust Coffee .... 314 

Cucumber Relish . . . 147 

Curd (For Children) . 177 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



615 



Currant Water 

Custards 

Baked Custards 
Baked Custard 



Page 

. • • 303 
. 255-256 
256-257-258 
(Lac- 



tose) 
Caramel Custard 
Chocolate Custard . 
Custard Junket . 

Souffle . . 
Frozen Custard . 
Malted Milk Custard 
Soft Custards (Lactose) 
White Custard 

D. 

Dandelion Greens . 
Dates 
Dates and Hominy . 
Date Jelly .... 
" Salad . . . 

Sandwiches 
" Sauce 
Dates for Young Chil 

dren 

Date Bon Bons . 

" Fig Bon Bons . 
Dates and Rice . 
Date Tapioca . 
Delafield's Milk Mixture 
Desserts (Frozen) 
Ice Cream 
Caramel Ice Cream 
" Ice Cream 
No. II ... . 
Chocolate Ice Cream 
Coffee Ice Cream . 
Diabetic Ice Cream 
Frozen Custard 
Grape Ice Cream . 
Hot Cocoa Sauce for 

Ice Cream 
Junket Ice Cream . 
Malted Milk Ice Cream 
Peach " " 

Raspberry " " 
Strawberry " " 
Vanilla 
Vanilla (Lactose) 



258 
258 
257 
262 
261 
291 
258 
255 
257 



236 

205 
281 
244 
223 
249 

250 
250 
250 
267 
270 
181 
286 
287 



289 
288 
288 
291 
291 
288 

291 

290 
290 
289 
289 
288 
287 
287 



Ices 

Clam Frappe 
Fruit Ice 
Grape Frappe . 
Lemon Ice . 
Orange " 

" No. II . 
" No. Ill . 
" Straws 
Pineapple Ice . 
Scalpicon of Fruit 

Sherbet 

Clam Sherbet . 
Grape Ambrosia 
Grape Sherbet . 
Lemon Milk Sherbet . 
Lemon Milk Sherbet . 

No. II 

Malted Milk Sherbet . 
Strawberry Sherbet . 
Strawberry Sherbet 
No. II . . . . 
Desserts (Hot and Cold) 
Bread Puddings 
Chocolate Bread Pud- 
ding 

Brown Betty . . 
Jelly Bread Pudding . 
Lactose Bread Pudding 
Lemon " 
Orange " 
Plain 
Cornstarch or Blanc 
Mange . . . . 
Cornstarch Fruit Jelly 
Pudding . 
Gluten Pudding (Dia- 
betic) 

Irish Moss Blanc 

Mange . 
Irish Moss Jelly . . 
Malted Milk Blanc 

Mange 

Nutritious Wheat Pud- 
ding 

Pineapple Cream . . 
Cracker Pudding 
Plain Cracker Pudding 



Page 
293 
295 
294 
295 
294 
293 
293 
294 
295 
294 

295 
291 
292 
293 
293 
291 
291 
292 
292 
292 

292 
254 



272 

273 
272 
272 
271 
271 
271 

263 
264 
264 

265 

266 

266 

265 

265 
264 

273 



616 



INDEX TO RECIPES 







Page 




Page 


Custards 




Gelatin (continued) 




Custard (Baked) No. 


I 256 


Spanish Cream 


281 


Custard (Baked) Nc 


>. 


Spanish Cream (Ind.) 


282 


II 


. 257 


Starchy Jellies . 


203 


Baked Caramel Custard 258 


Strawberry Mousse . 


284 


" or Cup 


256 


Wine Jelly No. I . . 


277 


" Custard (Lac 


- 


" No. II . 


277 


tose) .... 


. 258 


" (Diabetic) 


285 


Chocolate Custard . 


• 257 


Sauces : Served with 




Diabetic Custard . 


• 259 


Gelatin 




(Spe 




Orange 


282 


cial) .... 


• 259 


Soft Custard . . 


255 


Malted Milk Custard 


• 258 


Whipped Cream . 274-275 


White 


• 257 


Junket 


261 


Custards (Soft) 


• 255 


Cocoa Junket . 


263 


Almond Pudding 




• 256 


Cocoa Junket (Lactose) 


263 


Banana Custard 




. 256 


Custard " ... 


262 


Floating Island 




. 256 


Plain " . . 


262 


Meringue 




. 256 


" (Lactose) 


263 


Orange Custard 




. 256 


Pudding Sauces . 


273 


Soft Custard No. I 


. 255 


Foamy Sauce . 


274 


" Custard No. II 


255 


Fruit " ... 


275 


" Custard (Lac 




Gold " ... 


274 


tose) .... 


255 


Hard "... 


273 


Gelatin .... 


275 


Orange " ... 


275 


Agar-Agar Jelly (Dia 




Vanilla " ... 


274 


betic) .... 


285 


Whipped Cream 


274 


Bavarian Cream 




. 282 


Whipped Cream No. II 


275 


Coffee Jelly . 




279 


Rice Puddings 




Chocolate Sponge 




283 


Boiled Rice 


266 


Cream Jelly 




280 


Cream of Ricq Pudding 


268 


Date Jelly . . 




281 


Dates and Rice 


267 


Grape Fluff . 




283 


Peaches and Rice . 


267 


Grape Jelly 




279 


Plain Rice Pudding . 


268 


Jellied Prunes . 




278 


Rice Meringue . 


268 


Lactose Jelly . 




285 


Southern Snow Balls . 


267 


Lemon Jelly 




278 


Steamed Rice . 


267 


Lemon Jelly (Diabetic 


) 285 


Tapioca Puddings . . 


269 


Made-in-a-Minute Des 




Apple Tapioca . 


269 


sert .... 


284 


Chocolate Blanc Mange 


270 


Orange Baskets 


278 


Date Tapioca . 


270 


Charlotte . 


283 


Pineapple Tapioca 


269 


Jelly No. I 


277 


Plain 


269 


Jelly No. II 


278 


Raspberry 


270 


Peach Jelly . 


279 


Tapioca Cream . . 


269 


Peptonized Milk Jell} 


r 280 


Whips and Souffles . 


259 


Pineapple Jell-0 Whi] 


) 284 


Custard Souffle . . . 


261 


Snow Pudding 


281 


Fruit Whip .... 


259 


" (Ir 


d.) 


281 


Grape Whip 


260 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



617 



Page 

Whips and Souffles {cont'd) 

Lemon Souffle . . . 261 

Omelet Souffle . . . 260 

Peach Meringue . . 261 

Strawberry Whip . . 260 

Diabetic Milk (Wright's) 181 

Dressing for Poultry . . 135 

Dressing for Salads . . 241 

Dried Fruit Soup . . . 187 

Drinks (See Beverages) 

Dutch Sauce .... 207 



Eggs 156 

Albuminous Beverages . 305 
Albuminized Clam Water 307 
Milk .. . 307 
Orange . . 307 
Sherry . . 308 
" W r ater . . 307 
Albumin Water (Plain) 306 
" (For In- 
fants) . 306 



Baked Custard 
Eggs 

(Diabetic) 
Meat Omelet 
Beef Egg-nog 
Coddled Eggs (For In 

fants) . . . 

Coffee Egg-nog . 

Egg Broth (Milk) 

" (Water) 

" Desserts . . 

Lemonade 
Egg Nests . . . 
Egg-nog No. I . 
" " No. II . 
" Sandwiches . 
" Sauce . . 
" and Brandy . 
;; " Rum 

Sherry Gruel 
" " Wine . 
Filled Eggs . . 
Golden-Rod Eggs 
Grape Yolk . . 
Hard Cooked Egg 



256-257-258 
161 
161 
163 
309 



159 
309 
308 
129 

254 
310 
161 
308 
308 
164 
146 
310 
309 
202 
310 
164 
161 

3ii 
160 



Eggs (continued) 
Junket Egg-nog . 
Malted Milk and Egg 
Marguerite Salad 
Mulled Wine . 
Omelet (Baked with meat 
(Foamy) . 
(Souffle) . . 
Poached or dropped Eggs 

" Egg in Milk 
Scrambled Eggs . 
Shirred Egg . 

Eggs No. II 
Soft Cooked Eggs . 

" No. II 
" Custard . . 
Steamed Eggs 
Stokes' Mixture . 
Water Lily Salad 
Whips and Souffles . 
Eiweiss Milk 
Evaporated Milk . 



Farina Gruel . . . 
Fish 

Baked Fish . . . 
" (Diabetic) 

Broiled Fish . 

Creamed Codfish . 

(Dia 
betic) . . . . 

Creamed Fish 

" (Diabetic) 

Halibut a la Creole . 

Pan Broiled (Diabetic 

Scalloped Fish 
Fish Sauces . . . 

Butter Cream 

Cream or White Sauce 

Cream Sauce (Diabetic) 

Cucumber Relish 

Egg Sauce . . . 

Hollandaise Sauce 

Tomato Sauce 
Flaxseed Tea . . 
Flaxseed and Licorice 

Tea 

Floating Island . . 



Page 

309 
-10 

243 
311 
1 163 
162 
162 
163 
163 
163 
164 
164 
160 
160 

255 
160 

' 3ii 
244 
259 

178 
176 



201 
140 
143 
145 
142 

144 

145 
144 
145 
143 
145 
144 
145 
145 
146 
146 
147 
146 
147 
146 
323 

324 
256 



618 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Flour, Kinds . . 

Flour Gruel . 

Flour Ball 

Frappe 

Clam Frappe . 

Grape " . 

Frosting 

Frozen Custard 

Frozen Desserts (See Des 

serts) 
Fruits 

Apples — Cuban Style 

Baked . . . 
Stewed . . . 

Apricot and Prune Sauce 

Baked Banana 

Cranberry Sauce or Jelly 

Date Sauce . 

Date Bon Bons . 

Date and Fig Bon Bons 

Dates for Young Children 

Figs, Stewed . 

Lemon Baked . 

Orange Baked 
No. II 
Straws 
Sunflower 

Prunes Stewed 

Prune Pulp (For Infants) 

Rhubarb Steamed 

Fruit Ice 

Fruit Punch . 

Fruit Sauce 

Fruit Salad 

Fruit Sandwiches 
Fruit (dried) Soup 

Fruit Whip 

Fruitade 



Page 
211 
200 

202 

295 
295 
227 
291 



245 
248 
248 
248 
247 
248 

249 
249 
250 
250 
250 
250 
249 
249 
249 
295 
249 
247 
247 
250 
294 
304 
275 
243 
223 

187 
259 
300 



Game (See Poultry) 
Gelatin (See Desserts) 
Gelatin Sauces . 255, 274, 282 
Gems 

Cornmeal Gems . . . 216 

White Gems .... 216 

Ginger Bread .... 228 



Page 

Ginger Tea 325 

Gluten 

Baked Eggs .... 161 

Bread 214 

Cream Sauce .... 146 

Crisps 220 

Cakes (Gluten Nut) . 228 
Fish 

" Baked 145 

" Creamed .... 145 

Creamed Codfish . . . 145 

French Toast .... 221 

Gluten Pudding . . . 265 

Noodles 208 

Soups 

Cream of Celery . . 189 

" " Tomato . 190 

Onion Soup .... 190 

Oyster Soup . . 153 

Wafers 224 

Grape Juice 

Grape Ambrosia . . . 293 

" Frappe .... 295 

Fluff .... 283 

Jelly .... 279 

" Juice Ice Cream . 288 

Juice .... 303 

" Lemonade . . . 303 

" Punch .... 304 

" Sherbet ... 293 

Water .... 302 

" Whip .... 260 

Yolk . . . .311 

Gravy for Roasts ... 121 

Gravy for Roast Poultry 136 

Griddle Cakes .... 225 

Cellu Flour (Diabetic) . 225 

Maple Syrup " . 225 

Grouse, Larded .... 139 

Gruels 198 

Arrowroot Gruel . . 199 
Barley Gruel (For In- 
fants) 199 

Barley Gruel (with Broth) 200 

" Jelly .... 203 
Browned Flour Gruel 

(for Teething Children) 202 

Caudle 202 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



619 



Page 
Gruels {continued) 

Cornmeal Gruel . . . 201 

Cracker Gruel . . . 200 

Egg and Sherry Gruel . 202 

Farina Gruel .... 201 

Flour " .... 200 

Ball 202 

Indian Meal Gruel . . 201 

Oatmeal Gruel No. I . 201 

" " No. II . 201 

Rice, Wheat or Oat 

Gruel (For Infants) . 199 

Rice Jelly 203 

Soy Bean Gruel (Dia- 
betic) 203 

Tapioca Jelly . . . 204 

H. 

Halibut a La Creole . . 143 

Ham Broiled .... 120 

Hard Sauce 273 

Hasty Pudding .... 204 

Herb Tea 325 

Hollandaise Sauce . . 147 

Hominy and Dates . . 205 

Hot Cocoa Sauce . . . 291 

Hot and Cold Desserts . 254 

Hydrochloric Milk . . 181 

/. 

Ice Cream (See Desserts) 

Ices (See Desserts) 

Imperial Drink . . . 302 

Indian Meal Gruel . . 201 

Irish Moss 

Blanc Mange .... 266 

Jelly 266 

Lemonade 299 

7. 

Jellies (See Gelatin) 

Jelly and Ice ... . 302 
Meat Jellies . 126-129-130 

Starchy Jellies ... 203 

Jell-O 284 

Pineapple Jell-O Whip . 284 
Made-in-a-Minute Des- 
sert 284 



Page 

Jelly Bread Pudding . . 272 

Junket 261 

Cocoa Junket .... 263 

" " (Lactose) 263 

Custard " .... 262 

Junket Egg-nog . . . 309 

Plain Junket .... 262 

Whey (For Infants) . 177 

K. 

KUMYSS l80 



L.. 
Lamb 

Chops Broiled in Paper 

French Chops . 

Lamb Chops Broiled 

Pan Broiled Chops . 

Roast Lamb 
Lemon Souffle . 
Lemonade .... 

Effervescent Lemonade 

Egg 

Fruit " 

Grape 

Irish Moss " 

Lactose 

Soda 
Lemon, Baked . 

" Bread Pudding 
" Ice .... 

r J elJ y : • . • 

" (Diabetic) 

Milk Sherbet 

" Whey . . . 

Licorice Tea . . . 

Lettuce Sandwiches . 

Lime Water .... 



120 
119 
119 
119 

121 
261 
298 
299 
300 
300 
303 
299 
299 
299 
249 
271 
294 
278 
285 
291-292 
300 

324 
223 

324 



M. 

Macaroni 207 

Baked Macaroni . . . 208 

Boiled . . . 207 

Noodles (Diabetic) 208 

Noodles (Diabetic) . . 208 

Buttered Cracker Crumbs 209 

Cream or White Sauce . 207 

Tomato Sauce . . . 208 



620 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Page 
Made-in-a-Minute .Des- 
sert 284 

Maitre D'Hotel Butter . 118 

Malt-Soup Mixture . . 189 

Malted Milk . . . . 176 

Malted Milk Blanc Mange 265 

" Cocoa . . 322 

Coffee . . 320 

Custard . 258 

Ice Cream . 290 

Plain . . 176 

Sherbet . 292 
and Currant 

• Jelly . . 302 

and Egg . 310 

with Wine . 302 

Martin's Milk .... 178 

Meat 109 



Broiled Bacon 
Curled 
Broiled Ham 



120 
120 
120 
117 



Steak . . . 
Chops or Birds Broiled 

in Paper 120 

Lamb Chops Broiled . 119 

French " .... 119 

Mutton Chops Broiled . 118 

Pan Broiled Beef Cakes 118 
Pan Broiled Chops . .119 

Roast Meats .... 121 

Gravy 121 

Scraped Beef .... 125 

Meat Jellies . . . 129-130 

Beef Jelly 130 

Calf's Foot 'Jelly . 129-130 

Chicken Jelly .... 130 

Meat Sauces 

Gravy 121 

Maitre D'Hotel Butter . 118 

Meat Soups (See Broths) 

Meringue 256 

Rice Meringue . . . 268 

Milk 165 

Albuminized Milk . . 307 

Baked Milk .... 176 

Brandy and Milk ... 183 

Buttermilk (Bulgarian) 179 

" (Lactone) 179 

Casein-Calcium Milk . 180 



Page 

Milk (continued) 
Cinnamon and Milk . . 
Condensed Milk . . . 
Curd (For Children) . 
Delafield's Milk Mixture 
Diebetic Milk (Wright's) 
Eiweiss Milk . 
Evaporated Milk . 
Hydrochloric Milk 
Junket (for Infants) 
Kumyss 

Martin's Milk . . 
Medicated Milk . 
Milk Toast . . 
Malted Milk . . 
Modified Milk . 
Pasteurization 
Peptonized Milk . 

Fully Peptonized 

Partially Peptonized 
Protein Milk . , 
Rice Milk . . 
Rum and Milk 
Sherbet 

Sherry and Milk 
Sterilization 
Thickened Milk 
Whey (For Infants) 

Acid Phosphate 

Lemon Whey 

Wine Whey 
Miscellaneous Beverages 

(See Beverages) 
Special Non-Nutritive 
Beverages (See Beverages 



183 
174 
177 
181 
181 
178 

• 176 
. 181 

• 177 
. 180 
. 178 
. 181 
. 220 
. 176 

173-578 

• 175 
. 176 
. 176 
. 176 
. 178 
. 182 
. 182 

291-292 
. 183 

• 175 
. 182 

• 177 

• 301 

• 300 
. 300 



Mock Bisque Soup . . 

Mousse Strawberry 

Muffins (See Bread) 

Mulled Wine .... 

Mush (See Breakfast 
Food) 

Mutton Broth (for In- 
fant or Adult) 

Mutton Chops Broiled . 



187 
284 

3ii 



127 
118 



N. 
Noodles (Diabetic) 



. 208 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



621 



Page 

Non-Nitrogenous Bever- 
ages (See Beverages) 
Nutritious Desserts . . 254 
Nutritious Wheat Pud- 
ding 265 

Nuts 251 



0. 



Oatmeal 

Caudle 

Oat, Wheat or Rice 
Gruel (for Infants) 

Oatmeal Gruel No. I 
" No. II 
Mush (for Chil- 
dren and Invalids) 

Oatmeal Water . 
Olive Oil 

Salads .... 

Salad Dressings . 
Onions 

Boiled .... 

Creamed 

Scalloped 

Soup (Diabetic) . 
Omelet 

Baked Meat Omelet 

Foamy Omelet 

Omelet Souffle 
Oranges 

Albuminized Orange 

Juice . 

Baked Orange 

Orange Baskets 



Bread Pudding 271 



Charlotte 
Custard . 
Ice . . 
" No. II 
" No. Ill 
Jelly No. I 
" No. II 
No. II . 
Sauce 
Straws 
Sunflower 
Orangeade 
Oysters (See Shell Fish) 



202 

199 
201 
201 

205 
313 

240 
240 

237 

237 
237 
190 

163 
162 
260 



307 
249 
278 



283 
256 
293 
293 
294 
277 
278 
249 
275 
295 
249 
300 



P. 

Panada (Cracker) . . 
(Bread) . . 
Pan-Broiled Beef Cakes 
Pasteurization . . 1 
Parsley Butter 
Pea Soup ... 
Peas Green .... 
" Canned 
" Creamed No. I . 
No. II 
Peach Ice Cream 
" Jelly . . 
" Meringue 
" and Rice 
Peptonized Milk 
Fully Peptonized Milk 
Partially Peptonized . 
Phosphate 
Acid Phosphate . . 
Whey 
Pineapple 
Pineapple Cream . . 
Ice . 

Jell-0 Whip 
Potatoes 

Baked 

Boiled 

Creamed .... 

Mashed 

Potatoes Au Gratin* . 
Potato Balls . . . 
Cakes . 
" in Half-Shell 
Riced Potatoes 

Soup 

Surprise Balls 

Poultry 

Birds Broiled in Paper 
Bread Sauce for Game 
Broiled Chicken . 

Quail . . 
Small Birds 
Squabs 
Creamed Chicken 
Dry Dressing for Stuf 
fing 



75- 



Page 



3U 
314 
118 

577 
240 
186 
237 
237 
237 
237 
289 
279 
261 
267 
176 
176 
176 



301 
301 

264 
294 

284 

234 

233 
235 
233 
234 
235 
234 
234 
233 
186 
234 
133 
137 
139 
137 
137 
137 
137 
138 

135 



622 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Poultry (continued) 

General Rule for Clean- 
ing Poultry . 

Gravy for Roast Poultry 

Jellied Chicken 

Larded Grouse 

Larded Quail . 

Roast Poultry . 
Dry Dressing 
Gravy 

To Bone Birds 
" Clean Poultry 
" Truss 

Scalloped Chicken 
Protein Milk . 
Prunes 

Jellied Prunes 

Prune Pulp (For Infants) 

Stewed Prunes 
Pudding Sauces 

Foamy Sauce 

Fruit 

Gold 

Hard 

Orange " 

Vanilla " 

Whipped Cream . 
Punch 

Fruit Punch 

Grape Punch . 

Tea Punch 

Tutti-Frutti Punch 



Page 



134 
136 
138 
139 
139 
135 
135 
136 
136 
134 
135 
138 



278 

247 
247 
273 
274 

275 
274 
273 
275 
274 
274 

304 
304 
304 
305 



Page 
Rice (continued) 
Cream of Rice Pudding 268 



Quail 

Broiled 137 

Broiled in Paper . . . 137 

Bread Sauce for Game . 139 

Larded Quail .... 139 



R. 



Raspberry Ice Cream . 


■ 389 


Tapioca 


. 270 


Rhubarb Steamed . 


• 250 


Water . . 


• 303 


Rice 




Boiled Rice . . . 


. 266 



Dates and Rice 
Peaches and Rice 
Plain Rice Pudding 
Rice Gruel (for Infants) 

" Jelly . 

" Meringue 

" Milk . 

" Water 
Steamed Rice 
Roast Meats 
Rum and Milk 

S. 



267 
267 
268 

199 
203 
268 
182 

3i3 
267 
121 
182 



Saccharin .... 8-213 

Salads 240-243 

Chicken Salad . . . 243 

Date and Orange Salad . 244 

Filled Eggs .... 164 

Fruit Salads • . . . . 243 

Marguerite Salad . . 243 

Mixed " . . 244 

Sweetbread " . . 244 

Waldorf " . . 244 

Water Lily " . . 244 

Salad Accompaniments 

Cheese Wafers . . . 244 

Salad Dressings . . . 241 

Boiled Dressing . . . 241 

Cream . . . 242 

French . . . 241 

Mayonnaise " ... 242 

Sauces 

Basic Recipe .... 206 

Dutch Sauce .... 207 
Methods of Blending 

Sauces 206 

Sauces for 

Ice Cream (Hot Cocoa) 291 
Macaroni .... 207-208 
Meat (Maitre d'Hotel 
Butter) .... 118-121 

Pudding 273 

Toast 220 

Vegetable 239 

Sandwiches 222 

Boston Brown Bread . 222 



INDEX TO EECIPES 



623 





Page 


Bread and Butter 


222 


Cheese Sandwiches . 


223 


Chicken 


223 


Date 


223 


Egg 


223 


Fruit 


223 


Lettuce 


223 


Nut 


223 


Raw Beef 


223 


Scalpicon of Fruit 


295 


Scrambled Eggs . . 


163 


Scraped Beef 


125 


Shell-Fish .... 


147 


Oysters .... 


147 


Broiled .... 


151 


Creamed .... 


151 


Creamed No. II 


151 


Pan Roasted . . 


150 


Raw 


150 


Roasted in the Shell 


150 


Scalloped . . 


152 


Soup 


152 


Soup (Diabetic) . 


153 


Stew r 


• 153 


To Wash Oysters . 


• 150 


Clams 




Albuminized Clan 


1 


Water .... 


307 


Clam Bouillon . 


155 


M Bouillon Bisqu< 


- 156 


" Broth . . 


154 


" Broth No. II 


128 


" Broth and Toas 


t 221 


" Frappe 


295 


" Sherbet . . 


292 


" Soup . 


155 


" Stew . 


155 


" Water . . 


154 


" Water No. II 


154 


Little Neck Clams . 


153 


Steamed Clams 


153 


Sherbet (See Desserts) 




Sherry (Albuminized) 


308 


Sherry and Milk . . 


183 


Slippery Elm Tea . . 


324 


Sippets 


. 220 


Sxow Pudding . 


281 


Soda Lemonade . 


299 



Sandwiches (continued) Page 
Soft Custard (See Des- 
serts) 
Souffle or Whips (See 
Desserts) 

Soups • . 183 

Asparagus Soup (Cream) i8_j 
Black Bean Soup . . 190 
Clam Bouillon . . . 155 
" Bouillon Bisque . 156 
Soup .... 155 
Cream of Asparagus . . 184 
" " Celery . . . 185 
" " Celery (Dia- 
betic) . . 189 
" " Corn ... 185 
" " Onion (Diabetic) 190 
" "Pea Soup . . 186 
"Potatoes . . 186 
"Rice ... 186 
" " Tomato Soup 
(Diabetic) .... 190 
Dried Fruit Soup . . 187 
Malt-Soup Mixture . . 189 
Meat Soup . . . 127-128 
Mock Bisque Soup . . 187 
Onion Soup (Diabetic) . 190 
Oyster Soup . . . 152-153 
" (Diabetic) . 153 
Stew .... 153 
Tomato Soup (with 

Broth) ..... 187 
Vegetable Soup (For 

Infants) 188 

Victoria Soup (with 

Broth) 188 

Soup Accompaniments 

Crisped Crackers . . 191 

Croutons 191 

Noodles (Diabetic) . . 208 
Toasted Crackers . . 191 
Soy Bean 
Breakfast Food (Dia- 
betic) 205 

Muffins (Diabetic) . . 218 
Sponge Cake . . . 226-227 
Special Non-Nutritive 
Beverages (See Bever- 
ages) 

Spinach 236 



624 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Squabs, Broiled . . . 
String Beans . 
Starchy Beverages (See 

Beverages) 
Starchy Jellies 

Barley Jelly 

Cornstarch Pudding 

Rice Jelly . . . 

Tapioca Jelly . 
Starchy Sauces 

Basic Recipe . 

Dutch Sauce . 

Methods of Blending 

Tomato Sauce 

White Sauce . . 
Steak (See Beef) 
Sterilization of Milk 
Steamed Clams 
Stew, Oyster 
Stokes' Mixture 
Strawberry Ice Cream 

Mousse 
Strawberry Whip . 
Sugar Substitutes . 



Page 
137 

238 



203 
203 
263 
203 
204 
206 
206 
207 
206 
207 
207 



175 
153 
153 
311 
288 
284 
260 
8-213 



Sugar Syrup (for Acid 

Beverages) .... 298 

Sweetina .... 8-213 

Sweetbreads 130 

Boiled 132 

Creamed 132 

No. II . . . 132 

Fricasseed 133 

Parboiled Sweetbread . 131 

Sweetbreads with Peas . 133 

Syrup (Sugar) .... 298 

T. 

Tamarind (Malted Milk) 303 

Tapioca 

Apple Tapioca . . . 269 

Chocolate Blanc Mange . 270 

Date Tapioca .... 270 

Pineapple Tapioca . . 269 

Plain Tapioca . . . 269 

Raspberry Tapioca . . 270 

Tapioca Cream . . . 269 

Tapioca Jelly .... 204 

Tea 

Bran Tea 324 



Page 

Tea (continued) 

Flaxseed 323, 

Ginger Tea .... 325 

Herb Tea ..... 325 

Licorice 324 

Russian Tea .... 319 

Slippery Elm Tea . . 324 

Tea 318 

Tea Punch 304 

Thickened Milk . . 182-200 

Toast 218 

Celery Toast .... 221 

Clam Broth and Toast . 221 

Cream Toast No. I . . 220 

" No. II . 221 

Crisps (Gluten) . . . 220 

Croutons 220 

Dried Bread (For Chil- 
dren) 219 

French Toast (Diabetic) 221 

Gluten Crisps (Diabetic) 220 

Milk Toast .... 220 

Sippets 220 

Toasted Crackers . . 220 

Water Toast .... 220 

Tomato Sauce for Fish . 146 
" (For Mac- 
aroni and Noodles) . . 208 

Tomatoes 

Baked 238 

Mock Bisque Soup . . 187 

Scalloped 238 

Stewed 238 

Soup with Broth . . . 187 

Turkey (See Poultry) 

Tutti-Frutti Punch . . 305 



V. 
Vanilla Ice Cream 
Vanilla (Lactose) Ice 

Cream . 
Veal Broth . 
Vegetables 
Asparagus on 
Boiled 
Creamed 
Beet Greens 
Carrots 
Boiled 
Creamed 




287 

287 
128 
229 
235 
235 
235 
236 

236 

236 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



625 



Page 



Greens 



No. 

No. 



Cauliflower 
Boiled 
Creamed 
Celery 
Boiled 
Creamed 
Dandelion 
Onions 
Boiled . . 
Creamed 
Scalloped 
Peas, Green 
" Canned 
" Creamed 
" Creamed 
Potatoes 
Baked . . . 
Boiled . . . 
Creamed 

Mashed . . . 

Potato Au Gratin 

Balls 

Cakes . 

Half Shell 

Riced Potatoes 

Surprise Balls 

Spinach 

String Beans 

Tomatoes 

Baked . . 

Scalloped 

Stewed 

Vegetable Sauces 

Basic Recipe . 

Cream Sauce (Diabetic) 

or White Sauce 

No. I . . . 

Cream Sauce No. II 

Parsley Butter 

Vegetables (Thrice 

Cooked) 

Vegetable Time Table, 
Cooking of .. . . . 



236 
236 

236 
236 
236 

237 
237 
237 
237 
237 
237 
237 

234 
233 
235 
233 
234 
235 
234 
234 
233 
234 
236 
238 

23S 
238 
238 
239 
239 
240 

239 
239 
240 

232 

232 



Page 
Vegetable Soup (For In- 
fants) 188 

Victoria Soup (with Broth) 188 



W. 



244 

22& 
307 



224. 



301 



Wafers 

Cheese Wafers . . . 

Marguerite Wafers . 
Water (Albuminized) 
Wheatsworth Whole 

Wheat Crackers 

W T HEY 

Acid Phosphate . 

Lemon 300- 

Wine Whey .... 30a 

Whipped Cream . . 274-275 

Whips and Souffles (See 
Desserts) 

White Sauce for 

Fish 146 

Macaroni 207 

Scalloped Dishes . . . 239. 
Vegetables 239. 

White Rock Mineral 
Water . . . 540-5 70-571 



Wine . 

" Jelly No. I . 

" No. II . 

" (Mulled) . . 

" Whey . . . 
Wright's Diabetic Milk 

Y. 



277 
277 
277 
3ii 
300 
181 



Yeast . . . . . . .211 

Entire Wheat Bread . 214 

Gluten Bread .... 214 

Kumyss 180 

White Flour Bread . . 213 
Whole Wheat or Gra- 
ham Bread .... 214 



GENERAL INDEX 



w? 



I 



Retarded Convalescence and 
disorders following Illness can 
often be avoided through the 
judicious use of a building and 

|y| vitalizing factor 

n Fellows' Compound 
Syrup of the 
Hypophosphites 

The Standard Tonic for Over 
Fifty Years. Restores Appe- 
tite, Energy, and Vitality 




Samples and Literature sent upon request 



Fellows Medical Manufacturing Co., Inc. 

26 Christopher Street New York 



es^>»*^»2S 



628 



GENERAL INDEX 



A. 



Page 



Absorption .... 3&~42 
by intestine .... 39 
stomach .... 39 
>f beef juice .... 122 
carbohydrates ... 40 

fats 40 

maltose 40 

meat no 

mineral matter . . 41 
proteins .... 39 

salt 41 

sucrose 40 

sugars 40 

water 41 

Accessories, Food (See 
Beverages ; Condi- 

ments; Vitamines) 
Acid Beverages . 24, 297-305 

in fever 363 

Acid, Citric 297 

hydrochloric ... 30, 547 

lactic 42, 44 

malic 297 

oleic n 

palmitic n 

phosphoric 301 

stearic n 

tannic 315-17 

tartaric 297 

Acidity, Gastric, Diet in . 444 

Acidosis, Diet in . . . 417 

glucose in prevention of 

postoperative . . 559-60 

Acids, Fatty .... n 

of stomach .... 29 

organic . . 245-6,297,448 

Acne, Diet in ... . 540 

Adolescent, Diet for . 605-6 



Page 
Adulteration of Food 61-2, jy 
Agar- Agar .... 9, 479 
Aged, Diet for .... 607 
Ages, Heights and 

Weights, Tables of 
(in Adults) . . 405,608 
Ages, Heights and 

Weights, Tables of 
(in Childhood) . . 600-3 

Albuminoids 15 

Albuminous Drinks (See 

Beverages) . . . 305-1 1 
Albumins . .... 15 

Albuminuria. Diet in . . 504 
Alcohol in Acute Disease 334 
Alcoholic Drinks . 24, 308-n 

Algae 252 

Alkaline Diet .... 356 
Allen Treatment of Dia- 
betes 380-94 

Almond Meal . . . .251 

Oil 12 

Almonds . . . . . . 2^2 

Amino-Acids . . . 16,19,31 

Amylopsin 37 

Anabolism 42 

Anemia 546-53 

diet in 546-53 

Boston City Hosp. . 552 
Von Xoorden's . . . 551 
Sutherland's . . . 548-9 

test 553 

pernicious 547 

secondary 547 

Antiacid Diet .... 428 
Anticonstipation Diet . 421 
Antiseptics, in Food Pres- 
ervation 80 

Antiscorbutics . 22,419,592 
629 



630 



GENERAL INDEX 



Page 
Appendicitis, Diet in . . 447 
Appetite in Acute Disease 332 

Appetizers 24 

Apples 248 

Apricots 247 

Arrowroot .... 9,312 
Artificial Feeding of In- 
fants (See Feeding) 577-84 
Artificial Feeding of the 

Sick (See Feeding) 335-9 
Asparagus ..... 235 

Assimilation 42 

Autointoxication, Diet 

in . . . . . . 483-9 

intestinal, diet in . . 483-9 



B. 



Bacillus Acidophilus 433,484 

botulinus 490 

Bulgaricus . . . 433,484 

paratyphus 491 

Bacon 114,120 

Bacteria and Food ... 78 
putrefactive .... 78 

Baking 85 

Baking Powder . . . 212 
Balfour's Dry Diet . . 498 
Ballast (See Roughage) 
Bananas .... 245, 249 
Banting Diet in Obesity 408 
Barley . ■ . . . 195, 212-3 
Bastedo's Diet in Ulcer 

of the Stomach . 459-60 
Beans (See Legumes) 
Beans, String .... 238 
Beating in Cookery ... 83 

Beef 115-23 

broth ..128 

cuts of 1 15-7 

12 
122 
121 
123 
118 
113 
121 
122 



Page 



drippings 
extracts 
preparations 
raw . 
steak 

tests for good 
Beef Juice 
absorption of 



Beef Juice {continued) 




composition of 


. 121 


food value of . . . 


. 122 


mode of serving . 


. 121 


preparation of 


. 122 


substitutes for . 


.122 


Beef Tea .... 


. 122 


composition of 


. 122 


food value of . 


. 122 


Beet Greens 


• 237 


sugar. See Sucrose 




Beets 


. 230 


Bergamot, Oil of . 


12 


Beri Beri .... 


. 21 


Beverages . . 24, 297-305, 3 2 5 


Beverages . . . 24, 


297-305 


for the diabetic 


. 298 


albuminous 


305-1 1 


for the diabetic 


. 306 


stimulating .... 


308-11 


miscellaneous . 


315-23 


nonnutritive 


323-5 



starchy 3H-5 

digestion of ... 312 
principles of cooking . 312 

Bile 3G,3 l ,36 

Birds, Broiled .... 120 
Biscuit, Diabetic . . . 217 
Bismuth in Ulcer of 

Stomach .... 457-8 
Blanc Mange . . . 263-6 
Blending in Cookery . . 83 

Blood 45,297 

alkalescence of 297 

amount of sugar in . . 45 
Blood Diseases of, Diet 

in 540-53 

Blood-Pressure, High 

(Oliver) . 436-9, 507-22 
general hygienic meas- 
ures in 439 

types of diet in 436-9, 507-22 
water allowance in . . 439 
Soper's High Blood 
Pressure Diet . . . 438 
Blood-Pressure, Low (Oli- 
ver) M39 

types of diet in . . . 440 



GENERAL INDEX 



631 



Page 
Body, Composition of . . 17 
energy requirements of 54-6 
Boils, Diet in (See Fur- 

unculosis) 
Bones . .... 19 

Boston City Anemic 

Diet 552-3 

Bottle Feeding of Infants 583 
Bottles, Nursing . . . 583 
Braising . .... 86 

Bran 479 

washed 217 

Brandy (See Beverages 

Stimulating) . . . 262 
Brazil Nuts .... 252 

Bread 209-22 

bran 211 

composition of 209 

digestibility of ... 210 
energy value of . . 213, 219 
for the diabetic . 213-21 

fermented .... 21 1-2 

graham 214 

gluten 211 

making 21 1-3 

nutritive value of . . 210 

sandwich 222 

soy bean 211 

substitutes 213 

unfermented .... 212 
whole wheat .... 214 
Bread Puddings . . . 271-3 
Breakfast (Cereal) Foods 204-6 
preparation of . . . 204-6 
Breakfast Tray ... 91 
Breast Feeding . . . 573 
Bright's Disease (See Ne- 
phritis) 
Bronchitis, Diet in . . 434-5 

in acute 434 

in chronic 435 

Broth, Meat .... 126-8 

beef 128 

chicken 128 

composition of . . . 126 
food value of . . . 126-7 

mutton 127 

preparation of . . . . 126 
veal 128 



Page 

Buckwheat 195 

Bulgarian Bacillus Cul- 
ture 433 

Bulkley Rice Diet for 

Skin Diseases . . . 539 

Butter 11, 171 

substitutes 12 



C. 



Cabbage 231 

Caffein (See Coffee and 

Tea) 

Cake, Cakes .... 224-5 

Cakemaking .... 225 

general directions for . 225 

Calcium .... 17,18,357 

foods rich in . . .26 

phosphate 177 

50-1 
50 
50 



Calorimeter 
Calory, Large 

" small . 

Cane Sugar (See Sucrose) 

Canned Goods .... 82 

test for . . . . . 491 

Caramel 10 

Carbohydrates .... 4 
absorption of .... 40 
classification of . . . .5 

definition of 4 

energy value of ... 52 
foods rich in .... 25 

function of 6 

metabolism of . . . .45 
percentages of in foods 
(Allen) .... 385-7 

source of 5 

Carbohydrate Diets . . 356 

Carbon 4, 14, 17 

Carbonates, Alkaline . 297 
Cardiovascular Stimula- 
tion, Reduction of . 438 

Carrots 2^6 

Carter's Ambulatory Ca- 
ses of Peptic Ulcer . 463 
Carter's Pneumonia Diet 433 
Carter's Salt-Poor Diets 510-14 
Carter's Tolerance Diet 463 
Casein 15, 16 



632 



GENERAL INDEX 



Page 
Cauliflower .... 236 

Celery 236 

Cellu-Flour . . . . 211 
Cellulose .... 196,211 
Centigrade Scale ... 105 
Cereals (See Breakfast 

Foods) 195-S 

care of 198 

composition of 195 

nutritive value of . . 198 

principles of cooking . 196 

Certified Milk .... 577 

Chard 544 

Cheese 171 

Cherries .... 244, 262 

Chestnuts 251 

Chicken (See Poultry, 

Broth) 128 

Children, Feeding of (See 

Infant Feeding) 

number of daily meals in 596 

of school age . . . 603-5 

second year .... 593~5 

undernourished . . . 599 

young in general . 593-005 

Classification of Food . . 4 

Chlorides (Sodium) . . 17 

Chlorine 17 

Chocolate 317 

nutritive value of . . .317 
principles of cooking . 318 

source of 317 

Chops 118-9 

lamb 119 

mutton 118 

Circulation, Diseases of, 

Diet in . . . . 435 

Cirrhosis of Liver, Diet in 

(Balfour's) . . . 496-8 
Cocoa (See Chocolate) 
Cocoanut. Oil .... 12 
Codliver Oil in Neuras- 
thenia 531 

rickets 592 

Coffee 316-7 

active principles of . . 316 

classes of 316 

effects of 316 

source of 316 

substitutes 317 



Page 

Cold Storage 80 

Coleman's High Calory 

Diet in Typhoid Fever 364 
Colic in Infant Feeding . 588 
Colitis, Acute, Diet in . 477 

Collagen 15, 109 

Colloidal State . . . 197 
Colonic Irrigation in Food 

Poisoning .... 491 

Colostrum 574 

Condiments .... 24 

Constipation . . 478-83, 587 

diet in . . _ . . . 478-83 

in infant feeding . . . 587 

Convalescence .... 348 

diet in 348-51 

full 351 

light 349 

medium 350 

in fevers 348 

jaundice .... 495-6 
pneumonia .... 433 

Cooking 83-6 

beating in 83 

blending in 83 

cutting in 84 

folding in 84 

measurements in ... 83 

methods of 83 

processes 84 

reasons for 83 

stirring in 83 

success in 83 

utensils for 86 

Corn 13, 195 

meal 195 

oil of 13 

Cornstarch .... 263-6 
puddings .... 263-6 

Crackers 224 

Cranberries 249 

Cream ...... 171 

in high calory feeding . 363 

Creatin 15 

Creatinin 15 

Crustaceans .... 147 

Curds 171 

in stools in infant feed- 
ing 588 

Custards 255-9 



GENERAL INDEX 



633 



Page 
Cuts of Meat .... 114 
Cutting in Cookery . . 84 

D. 

Dates 249-50 

Deficiency Diseases, Diet 

in 419 

Delafield's Mixture in 

Influenza .... 376 

Desserts . ... 254-94 

for the diabetic . . 254-94 

frozen 286-94 

nutritious .... 254-94 

Dextrin . . . . 8, 10, 196 
test for 11 



Dextrose (glucose) 

description of 

source of . 

test for 

use of in diet 
Diabetes Mellitus 

and obesity 

building diet in 



6 
6 
6 
8 
7 

379-94 
. 404 
• 394 



carbohydrate content 

lists for ... . 384-7 
cautions in diet . . 392 

dietetic treatment of 

(Joslin) .... 380-94 
food value lists for . 388-9 
maintenance diet in . . 382 
method of treatment of 379 
mild type of ... . 394 
surgical type, diet in 
(Peter Bent Brigham 

Hosp.) 393 

test diets in ... . 382 
treatment (Joslin-Allen) 380 
vegetable 5% list . . 387 
vegetables, thrice-cooked 232 

"Diabetic Foods" . . . 392 

Diabetics, Desserts for 

254, 259, 265, 285, 291 

salads for 241 

soups for .... 184-192 

Diarrhea, Diet in . . . 470 
in high calory feeding . 363 

Diastase 2>7 

pancreatic t,j 

salivary t>7 



Page 
Diet in Disease (See un- 
der Individual Diseases 
for details) 
in acidity, gastric . . 444 
acidosis 417 

• 540 
546-53 

• 477 
483-9 

• 434 

• 434 

• 547 
. 496 

• 477 
4/8-83 

• 483 
419 



liver 



acne 

anemia 

appendicitis . 

autointoxication 

bronchitis 

chronic 
chlorosis 
cirrhosis of the 
colitis, acute 
constipation 

roughage diet in 
deficiency diseases . 
diabetes. See Diabetes 

380-94 
diarrhea 

chronic 



■ ■ • 4/0-7 
. . .478 
diseases of the blood 

546-53 
circulation . . 435 

endocrine system . 554-7 
genito-urinary system 503 
intestines .... 467 
liver .... 493-503 

lungs 421 

nervous system . 524-36 
skin .... 537-45 
stomach . . . 443-565 
surgical cases . 558-68 
disturbances of meta- 
bolism 379 

dysentery .... 477 
eczema .... 539-40 
emaciation . . . 41 1-6 
enteritis, acute . . . 467 
chronic .... 468 

epilepsy 536 

fever. See Fever, Diet 

in 358-64 

food-poisoning . 490-2 

furunculosis . . . 344 
gall-stones . . . 498-501 
gastric acidity . . . 444 
subacidity . . . 445 

ulcer. See Ulcer . 440-65 
gastritis, acute . . . 448 



634 



GENERAL INDEX 



Page 
Diet in Disease {continued) 

chronic .... 446-8 

goitre 554-7 

gout. See Gout . 394-404 
high blood pressure. 
See Blood Pres- 
sure, High, Diet in 
indigestion .... 443 

influenza 375 

insomnia 536 

jaundice .... 493-6 
convalescence from 

495-6 
kidney stones . . . 507 
low blood pressure 439-40 

measles 375 

nephritis. See Ne- 
phritis, Diet in . 507-22 

neuritis 524 

neurasthenia. See Neu- 
rasthenia . . 525-35 
nitrogen retention. See 
Nephritis, Diet in 
obesity. See Obesity, 
Diet in ... . 404-11 

pellagra 419 

pneumonia. See Pneu- 
monia, Diet in . . 43 2_ 3 
psoriasis .... 54°-5 
quinzy. See Throat 

Affections, Diet in 
rheumatism, acute . 377-8 
scarlet fever . . . 374 

scurvy 4 2 ° 

skin 537-45 

diet in (Skin and 
Cancer Hospital, 
New York City . 544-5 
surgical cases. See Sur- 
gical Cases, Diet 

in 558-68 

throat affections . . 376 
tuberculosis. See Tu- 
berculosis, Diet in 421-32 
typhoid fever. See 
Typhoid Fever, Diet 





Page 


Diet in Disease (continued) 


uremia .... 


• 005-^) 


urticaria 


• • 344 


ulcer, gastric. See Ulcer 


of Stomach, 


Diet 


in 


449-56=; 


whooping cough . 


• 374-5 


Diet in Special Physio- 


logical Condition' 




adolescence . 


. 605-6 


childhood. See Children, 


Diet for . . 


• • 593 


infancy. See Infant 


Feeding 




motherhood 


. 567-72 


after labor . 


• • 571 


for nursing mother 


• 571-2 


in pregnancy. 


See 


Pregnancy, Diet 


n 567-70 


old age .... 


. 607-8 


Diet, Miscellaneous 




adequate 


. • 23 


animal vs vegetable 


• • 194 


ideal .... 


. • 195 


mixed .... 


• • 23 


Diets, Hospital 


■ • 340 


Types of 


• 340-56 


alkaline diet 


• • 356 


carbohydrate diet 


• • 356 


high . . . 


• 356 


low 


• • 356 


convalescent diet 


• 348 


full . . . 


• 35i 


light . . . 


• 349 


medium 


• 350 


(kinds of food 


to 


use in) . 


• 348 


fat diet . . . 


• 356 


high . . . 


• 356 


low .... 


■ 356 


fluid diet 


• 34i 


full ration 


• 343 


half ration 


• 342 


nonnutritive 


• 34i 


nutritive 


• 341 


schedule for feec 


ling 341 


(kinds of food 


to 


use in) 


• 341 


high calory diet 


• 355 


house diet, normal 


[St. 






GENERAL INDEX 



635 



Page 
Diets, Hospital (continued) 
Luke's Hospital, 

New York) . . 352-5 
low ration diet . . . 341 
lactofarinaceous diet 347-8 
(kinds of food to 
use in) .... 347 
light or soft diet . . 344 

full 347 

low 345 

medium .... 346 

(kinds of food to 

use in)' . . . . 345 

milk diet .... 344 

(kinds of food to 

use in) ... . 344 

nonroughage diet . . 357 

protein diet .... 355 

high 355 

low 355 

purin poor diet . 356 
rich in minerals diet 356-7 

roughage diet . . . 357 

salt poor diet . . . 356 

soft. See light diet . 344 
Dietetics, Science of . .23 

Digestibility of Eggs . . 157 

fish 141 

fruits 246 

gelatin 276 

milk 165 

nuts 252 

oysters 147 

poultry 133 

Digestion 28-35 

factors determining rate 

.of 37 

in intestine 30 

14 stomach 28 

of carbohydrates ... 32 

" fats 32 

" proteins 28 

resume of 35 

salivary . . . . . .33 

Dinner Tray 93 

Diphtheria, Diet in . . 376 

DlSACCHARIDES .... 5 

Disease, Acute, Appetite 

in 332 



Page 
Disease, Acute, (continued) 

feeding in 333 

food and drink served in 332 

idiosyncrasies in . 332 

use of alcohol in . . . 334 

Dishes, Disinfection of . 87 

washing of . . . . 86-7 

Disinfection of Dishes . 87 

Drinks (See Beverages) 

Drippings, Beef .... 12 

Duodenal Feeding . . . 336 

Duodenum 30 

Dysentery, Diet in . . 477 



Ebstein's Diet in Obesity 409 
Economics of Food . 77 

Edema, Diet in ... . 506 

Edestin 15, 16 

Egg Beaters 86 

Eggs . . . . . 156-65,305 
composition .... 156 
cooking of .... 159 
digestibility of ... 157 
energy value of . . . 159 
nutritive value of . . 158 
varieties of .... 157 
Ein horn's Diet in Gastric 

Ulcer .... 449-51 
hyperacidity . . . 444-5 
Einhorn's Duodenal Feed- 
ing in Ulcer . . . 461 
Einhorn's Duodenal Feed- 
ing Diet 461 

method of duodenal 

feeding 336 

Emaciation. Dietetic 

Treatment of . . . 41 1-6 

Endive 240 

Endocrine System, Dis- 
eases of, Diet in . . 554 
Enemata, Nutrient 338-9,451-2 

Energy 50 

value of food, determina- 
tion of 51^6 

Enteritis, Diet in . . 467-8 

acute 467 

Schmidt's diet in . 468 

chronic 468 



636 



GENERAL INDEX 



Page 

Enzymes 28-38 

Epilepsy, Diet in . 536 

starvation treatment of 536 
Equivalents, Table of 

Metric 102 

Erepsin . . . . 31, 37 

Ewald's Test Meals in 

Ulcer of Stomach . 463-5 
Extractives, Nitroge- 
nous 15, no 

Extracts, Flavoring . 12,24 

F. 



Fahrenheit Scale 


. 105 


Farina 


• 347 


Fat, Diet in ... 


• 356 


Fats 


11-14 


absorption of . 


. 40 


description of . 


. 11 


digestibility of . 


. 13 


energy value of 


• 52 


foods rich in . 


• 25 


functions of 


• 13 


metabolism of . 


• 44 


source of 


. . 12 


tests of ... 


• 13 


digestion of . 


• 32 


Fattening Diet . . 


. 414 


Fatty Acids . . ■ . 


. II 


Feces 


. 41 


Feeding, Infant 


• 573 


antiscorbutics in . 


• 584 


artificial .... 


• 577 


breast 


• 573 


in special conditk 


)ns 


(Holt) . . . 


585-92 


colic 


• 588 


constipation 


• 587 


curds in stools . 


• 588 


flatulence 


. 588 


in hot weather . 


• 586 


failure to gain weij 


?ht 590 


rickets .... 


• 592 


scurvy .... 


• 592 


intervals of . . 5; 


75-6, 581 


milk in ... 


. 582-3 


articles for . 


• 582 


directions for . 


• 583 


supplementary 


• 576 


technique of . 


• 574 



Page 
Feeding, Infant {continued) 

water in 583 

Feeding the Sick . . . 329 

artificial 335 

by inunction .... 335 
Murphy drip . . . 338 

duodenal 336 

forced 335 

methods of .... 329 

nasal . . . . . .335 

physicians' directions for 329 
in acute disease . . . .331 

time and position for 2>2> 2 
relations of to sleep . 333 

rectal 336-8 

the helpless patient . . 333 

unconscious patient . 334 

Fehling's Solution . . 8 

Fever 358-64 

diet in 358-64 

carbohydrate require- 
ment in 
cautions in . 
digestive disturbances 

in .... 
fat requirement in 
in convalescence from 
milk in ... . 
mouth cleansing in 
protein requirement in 



360 
363 

363 
360 
364 
362 
362 
360-1 

mode of calculation of 361 
total food requirement 

in 359 

Figs 250 

Filberts 252 

Finney's Diet after Gas- 
troenterostomy . . 567 

Fish 140-2 

classes of 14° 

composition of 14 1 

digestibility of ... 141 
food value of ... 141 

preparation of ... 142 
selection of .... 142 

Flatulence 588 

Flour 211-8 

cellulose 211 

mixtures, rules for . .212 
nonnutritive . . . .211 



GENERAL INDEX 



637 



Page 

Fluid Diet 341 

Folin's Purin-Free Liquid 

Diet 398-9 

Food 

accessories 23 

a complete 23 

adulteration of . 81-2 

and Bacteria .... 78 

animal 109 

ballast 9 

breakfast .... 195, 204 

canned 82 

care of yy 

classification of . . . .4 
concentration of ... 80 
contamination of . . .78 
cooking of. See Cook- 
ing, selection of food 

for 83 

decomposition of ... 77 

definition of 3 

economic loss of . . -77 
energy value of ... 51 
mode of determina- 
tion of ... 51-6 
fly pollution of ... 79 
fuel value of .... 51 

functions of 3 

idiosyncrasy . . 37, 40, 332 

materials ..... 84 

blending of ... 83-4 

composition of . . .84 

effects of temperature 

on .... 25-6,84 
nutritive value of, table 

58-76 
measurements of . . 98-105 
methods of facilitating 

digestibility of . 330 

mineral matter in ... 18 

Plant 194 

poisoning .... 40,78-9 
predigestion of . # . . 80-1 
preservation of ' . . 79-80 
putrefaction of ... 78 

roughage of 9 

sanitation yy 

selection of yy 

service of 331 



Page 
Food {continued) 

sterilization of . 77~9 

storage of 78 

values of 47 

estimates of (table) . 58-76 

vegetable 194 

viscera, use of as . . 113 
vitamine content of . 21-2 
water content of . . .20 
Freezing in Food Preser- 
vation 80 

Freezing, Rules for . . 286 
in small amounts . . 287 

Fricasseeing 86 

Fruit Juices . . . 297-305 

Fruits 243-6 

composition of 243 

digestibility of ... 246 
nutritive value of . . 246 
precaution in use of . 246 

Frying 85 

Fungi 252 

G. 

Galactose 34 

Gallstones, Diet in . 498-501 
postoperative . . 499-501 
prophylactic . . . 499-501 
Game (See Poultry) 
Gastric Acidity, Diet in 

(Einhorn) .... 444 
juice . . . . 29, 36, 37-8 
factors' modifving flow 

of m . m 37-8 

subacidity, diet in . . 445 
Gastric Convalescent 

Diet (Janeway) . . 465 
Gastric Test Meals 

Ewald 463 

Leube 464 

Riegel 464 

Serial test meal . . . 464 
St. Luke's Hospital test 

diet 464 

Gastric Tolerance Diet 

(Carter's) .... 463 
Gastritis, Diet in (Ein- 
horn) 444-8 

in acute 444 

chronic .... 446-8 



638 



GENERAL INDEX 



Page 
Gastroenterostomy, Fin- 
ney's Diet in . 567 

Gavage 335 

Gelatin .... 16, 275-6 
digestibility of ... 276 
general principles of . 276 
nutritive value of . . 276 
source of . . . . . 276 

Gliadin 16 

Globulins 15 

Glucose (See Dextrose) 

Glutelin 16 

Gluten 211 

bread 211 

Glycerides 11 

Glycerol (Glycerine) . . n 

Glycogen 5>8 

Goiter, Diet in ... . 4 J 9 
Gout ...... 394-40 1 

diet in 395-401 

Folin's Purin-Free Diet 398 

low purin 4 01 

purin free .... 393-4°i 

food needs in . . . .395 

metabolism in ... 394 

Grapes, Grape Juice . 297, 303 

Greens 236 

Grilling 85 

Grippe (See Influenza) 
Groats (Grits) . . ■ . . 195 
Gruels . . . . 196, 1 97, 203 

H. 

Halpin's Salt-Poor Diet 

in Nephritis . . . 5*4-5 

Ham 114 

Heat, Effects of on Food ' 

(See Cooking) 
Heat Requirement of 

Body 50-1 

Helpless, Feeding the . . 333 
Hemoglobin ... 15, 18, 109 
Hemorrhage, Gastric, 

Diet in (Lenhartz) . 456 
Hickory Nuts .... 252 
High CAlory Diet (Cole- 
man) . . • 355-365-72 

Hominy 347 

Horse Radish .... 24 



Page 
Horsford's Acid Phosphate 301 
Hospital Diets .... 340 
House Diets in Hospitals 352-5 
Hydrocarbons . . . . ii 
Hydrochloric Acid ... 30 
Hydrogen . . . . 4, 14, 17 
Hyperacidity, Einhorn's 

Diet in .... 444-5 
Hypertension (See Blood 

Pressure, High) 
Hypotension (See Blood 

Pressure, Low) 

/. 

Ice Box 87-8 

Ice, Care of in Sick Room 88 

cracked, in vomiting . . 570 
Ice Cream .... 287-91 
Iceland Moss .... 253 

Ices 293-5 

Idiosyncrasies, Food . . 40 
Idiosyncrasies in Acute 

Disease 33% 

Infant Feeding (See Feed- 
ing, Infant) 

Insomnia 536 

Intestinal Autointoxica- 
tion, Diet in, . . . 483-9 
Intestinal Diseases, Diet 

in 483-9 

Intestinal Juice . . . 30-1 
Intestinal Test Diet . 468-9 

Schmidt's .... 468 

St. Luke's Hospital, New 

York 469 

Intestine 30-1 

absorption by .... 39 

digestion in . . . .30, 4 2 

villi of 39 

Inunction, Feeding by . 335 
Iodine 17 

as test for starch .and 
dextrin n 

foods rich in ... . 26 
Invert Sugar . . . .5,245 

Irish Moss 253 

Iron ...... 18, 357 

foods rich in ... 26 



1 



GENERAL INDEX 



639 



Page 
Irrigation, Colonic, in 

Food Poisoning . . 49 1 
Isinglass 275 

/. 

Janeway's Diet in Ulcer 

of Stomach . . . 465 

Convalescent .... 464 

Jaundice, Diet in . . 493-6 

convalescent . . . 495-6 

Jellies, Meat (See Broth, 

starchy) .... 203-4 
Joslin's Diet in Diabetes 380 
Juice, Gastric (See Gastric 
Juice) 

intestinal 30-1 

Juice, Fruit (See under 

Special Fruits) 
Junket .... 172, 261-3 

K. 

Karkll Cure . . 503, 506, 515 

Katabolism 42 

Keating Treatment of 
Neurasthenia . . 525-30 

Kefir 173 

Kidney Diseases (See Ne- 
phritis 
Kidney Stones, Diet in . 507 
Kinnicutt's Diet in 

Typhoid Fever . . 373-4 
Kumyss 173 

L. 
Labor, Diet after . . . 571 

Lactalbumin 16 

Lactase 34 

Lacteals 39, 40 

Lactic Acid . . . . 42, 44 

in intestinal indigestion . 42 

Lacto-farinaceous Diet . 347-8 

lacto- vegetarian dlet . 503 

Lactose _ . 6, 40, 362-3, 489, 588 

absorption of .... 40 

in high calory feeding 362-3, 484 

Lamb 114 

chops 119 

cuts of 117 

spring 114 

tests for 114 



Page 

Lard n 

Lecithin 12, 158 

Legumes 229-30 

dried 229-30 

Lemon Juice . . . 249, 297 

oil of 12 

Lemonade . . . 299-304, 363 

Lemons 249, 297 

Lenhartz Diet in Ulcer 

of Stomach . . . 452-6 

Lettuce 223, 240 

Von Leube-Lockvvood Diet 

in Ulcer of Stomach 462 
Von Leube Test Meals in 

Ulcer of the Stomach . 464 
Leva's Salt Content Food 

List 508-9 

Levulose 7 

Lichens 252 

Light or Soft Diet . . 344 

Lime Water 324 

Lipase 32 

gastric 32 

pancreatic 32 

Liver, Cirrhosis of, Diet 

in (Balfour's) . . 496-8 
diseases of, diet in . 493-8 
Lockwood's Gastric Ul- 
cer Diet 457 

Loomis Sanatorium Tu- 
berculosis Diet . 424-32 
Low Cost Diet in Tuber- 
culosis 431 

Low Ration Diet . 341 

Lumps, Avoidance of in 

Cooking Starch . . 10 
Lungs, Diseases of, Diet 

T in 421-35 

Lunch Tray 92 

Lunch, School . . . 603-4 

hot dishes in ... . 604 

Lysine 16 

M. 

Macaroni 195 

preparation of ... 207 
Magnesium . . . . 17, 18 
foods rich in ... 26 

Maintenance Diets (See 
Diabetes and Obesity) 



640 



GENERAL INDEX 



Page 

Maltase 33-4 

Maltose 33 

absorption of .... 40 

Maple Sugar 7 

Margarines 12 

Massachusetts General 

Hospital Obesity Diet 410 

Mastication 33 

Materials, Food (See Food 
Materials) 

Matzoon 173 

Measles, Diet in . . . 375 

Measures and Weights 98-105 

conversion tables . . 102-5 

Meat 109-17 

absorption of . . . . no 
composition of 109 

cooking of in 

cuts of 114 

diet, exclusive .... 43 
digestibility of ... no 
effects of hot and cold 

water on .... 112 
energy value of . . . 117 

jellies 276 

mineral matter of . . 109 
nitrogenous extractives of 1 10 
nutritive value of . . no 
proteins of .... 109 

quality of 112 

Metabolism .... 42-9 

in acidosis 4 l 7 

" diabetes ..... 379 

" fever 359 

"gout 394 

" obesity 404 

of carbohydrates ... 45 

" fats 44 

" nitrogen .... 47-9 

" proteins 43 

Metaprotein 15 

Metric System . . . . 101 

Milk 165 

certification of ... 169 

certified 177 

care of 167 

composition of 165 

condensed 174 



Page 
Milk, Cows 

digestibility of 165 

diet 344 

kinds of 344 

dried 22 

energy value of . 175 

evaporated 174 

feeding, articles for . 582-3 
directions for . . . 577 

fermented 173 

grades of 168 

human vs cows . . . 578 

malted 174 

modification .... 578 
technique of ... 582 
modified .... 168, 173* 
nutritive value of . . 166 
pasteurization of . . . 175 
pasteurized .... 577-8 

peptonized 174 

skimmed 167 

sour 172 

Metchnikoff ... 172 
sterilization of ... 175 

sterilized 170 

top milk, formulae of . 581 
whole milk, formulae of 579 
Miller's Diet for Nitro- 
gen Retention . 5 5,5i5 
Mineral Matter . . . 17-8 
absorption of .... 41 
amount and kind of in 

body 17 

foods rich in ... . 25-6 
functions of ... 7 18 
occurrence in bones . . 19 

food 18 

Mineral Oils .... 479 
Mineral Diet (rich in) 356-7 
Mineral Water . . 342, 377 
Modified Milk . . . 173-578 
Molasses .... 357,479 

Molds 78 

Mollusks 147 

Monosaccharides . . 5, 35, 40 
Mosenthal's-Schlayer's 

Nephritic Test Diet 521-2 
Moss, Iceland .... 252 

Irish 252 

Mother's Milk .... 573 



GENERAL INDEX 



64.1 



Page 
Mouth-Cleansing in Feed- 
ing Sick . . . 331, 362 
Murphy Drip in Feeding 

Sick 338 

Muscle Fibers .... 109 
Mush, Cereal . . . 204-5 

Mushrooms 252 

Mustard 24 

Mutton 11 4-8 

broth 127 

chops 118 

cuts of 117 

tests for 114 

Myosin 109 

N. 
Nasal Feeding .... 335 
Nausea in High Calory 

Feeding 363 

Nephritis, Dietetic Treat- 
ment of ... . 503-15 

acute 5°3-4 

Carter's salt-poor diet 

in 510-14 

chloride retention in . . 506 

chronic 504-5 

edema in 506 

Halpin's salt-poor diet 

in 514-5 

interstitial 506 

Karell cure in . 503,506,515 
Miller's diet in nitrogen 
retention . . . . 505, 515 
nitrogen retention in . 505-6 
red meat in .... 505 
salt content food list . 508-9 
Peter Bent Brigham 

Hospital diet . . . 515 
Schlayer-Mosenthal test 

diet in 521-2 

uremia, chronic, in . 505-6 
water retention . . . 506 
Widal salt-poor diet in 514 
Nervous System, Diseases 

of, Diet in . . . . 524 
Neurasthenia, Dietetic 

Treatment of . . 5 2 5~35 
Keating treatment . 525-30 
Weir-Mitchell treat- 
ment 530-35 



Page 
Neuritis, Diet in . . . 524 
Nipples, Artificial . . 583 

Nitrogen 14, 44 

balance 47 

elimination 47 

equilibrium 47 

foods rich in .... 25 
metabolism of 47-9 

organic 14 

requirement of body . . 49 

retention .... 48, 505 

Miller's diet in . 505,515 

waste 49 

in typhoid fever . . . 360 
Nitrogenous Extractives . 15 
Non-Roughage Diet in 

Diarrhea . . . 357,473 

Noodles 208 

for diabetics .... 208 
Nursing, Technique of 

Infant 574 

Nut Butter 251 

flour 251 

meal 251 

Nutrient Enemas . . 338-9 

Nuts 251-2 

composition of ... 251 

cooking of 252 

digestibility of ... 252 
nutritive value of . . 252 

O. 

Oatmeal 347 

Oats 195, 197 

Obesity 404-1 1 

and Diabetes .... 404 
Banting's diet in . 408 

Ebstein's diet in . 409 

Oertel's diet in 409 

reduction cure of (Von 

Noorden) . . . 406-11 
carbohydrate restriction 

in . 407 

fat restriction in . . . 407 
maintenance diet in . . 406 
method of calculating 

food requirements in . 406 
protein allowance in . . 408 
water allowance in . 410 

Massachusetts General 



642 



GENERAL INDEX 



Page 
Obesity {continued) 

Hospital Obesity Diet 

410 

Von Noorden's diet in . 408 

Old Age, Diet in . 607-8 

Oleates (Olein) .... 11 

Oleic • Acid ij 

Oils (See also Fats) . 11-3 

cocoanut 12 

cod liver 592 

cottonseed 12 

olive 12 

substitutes for ... 12 

palm 12 

peanut 13 

Oils (See also Fats) . 11-3 

mineral , 479 

vegetable 12 

volatile 12 

Omelets 260 

Onions 230 

Orange Juice .... 249 
Oranges .... 246, 249 

Ovalbumin 16 

Ovovitellin . . . . 15, 16 

Oxygen 4, 14, 17 

Oysters . . . . . . 147 

composition of 147 

digestibility of . . 148 

food value of ... 149 

preparation of . 148 

selection of .... 148 

varieties of .... 149 

P. 

Palmitates 11 

Palmitin II 

Pancreatic Juice 30, 33, 36, 37 

diastase 30 

Panbroiling 85 

Parching 196 

Parsnips 230 

Pasteurization . . i75~577 
Patient, Helpless, Feed- 
ing the .... . 333 

unconscious, feeding the 334 

Peaches 246 

Peanuts 252 

Peas (See Legumes . . 237 

Pellagra 419 



Page 

Pepper 24 

Pepsin .... 29,37,547 

action of 29 

Peptones . . . 15,29,31,39 
Peter Bent Brigham Hos- 
pital 
Diabetic diet .... 393 
Nephritis diet . . . 515-19 
Phosphate, acid . . . 3or 

Phosphorus . . . 12,117, i'8 
foods rich in .... 25 
Physicians, Directions of, 

for Feeding the Sick . 329 
Pineapples .... 284, 297 

juice 297 

proteolytic enzyme in 297 
Plant Foods .... 194 
Pneumonia .... 432-3 
administration of . 432 

diet in (Carter's) . . 433 
convalescent diet in . . 433 
foods to use in . 432 

tympanitis in ... . 432 

Poaching 86 

Polysaccharides .... 5 

Pork 114 

Potassium 18 

foods rich in .... 26 

Potatoes 233-5 

Poultry i33~4 

digestibility of . . . .133 
food value of ... 133 

preparation of ... 134 
selection of .... 134 

Pregnancy 569 

diet during .... 569 
vomiting in, diet for . . 570 
Protein Diet .... 355 
Proteins .... 14-6, 39 
absorption of .... 39 
animal vs vegetable . . 194 
classification .... 14 

conjugated 15 

cooking of .... 16-7 

derived 15 

digestion of .... 28 
effects of heat on . . . 16 
elimination of . . . .44 
energy value of ... 52 



GENERAL INDEX 



643 



Proteins {continued) 
excess of, in diet . 
foods rich in 
functions of 
incomplete 

partially incomplete 
metabolism of . 
oxidation of 



Page 
44 

25 
IS 
16 
16 
43 
43,44 



relation of to kidney dis- 
ease 44 

requirement of, minimum 

daily 49 

simple 15 

source of 14 

vegetable 194 

Proteoses .... 15,31,39 

Prunes 247 

Ptyalin 32,37 

Puddings 263 

sauces for .... 273-5 

Purins 393-9 

diet free from . . 15, 393~5 

foods rich in ... . 395 

Purin-Poor Diet . . . 356 

Putrefaction .... 78 

Pylorus 29, 30 



0. 



Questions for Study. 27, 46, 
56, 88, 97, 106, 192, 253, 296, 
325, 339, 357, 378, 417, 420, 434, 
442, 466, 492, 502, 522, 536, 545, 
553, 557, 568, 572, 592, 606. 



R. 



Radishes 231 

Raisins 200 

Raspberries . . . 262, 272 
Rectal Feeding . . . 356-9 

in ulcer 451-2 

Red Meat in Nephritis . 505 
Reflex, Pharyngeal . . 33 
Regurgitation in Infants 583 

Rennin 29 

Rheumatism, Acute, Diet 

in 376-8 

Rhubarb .... 250,378 
Riegel's Test Meals in 

Ulcer of the Stomach 464 



Page 

Rice .... 5, 195, 198, 232 

diet in eczema (Bulkley) 539 

water 197 

Rickets, Diet in 592 

Roasting 85 

Roots 230 

Roughage Diet in Con- 
stipation . 357, 467, 480-2 

of food 9 

full roughage diet . 483 
Rum (See Beverages, Stim- 
ulating 
Rye 195 



Saccharin ... 8, 213, 306 

Sago 5.347 

Salads 240-5 

dressings for .... 240 
for diabetics .... 241 
Saliva . . . . 32-3,36-8 
factors modifying flow 

of 37-8 

Salsify 230 

Salt 24, 41 

absorption of .... 41 

as condiment . . . .24 

content of foods (Leva) 508-9 

diets poor in . . . 510-15 

Salt-Poor Diet . . . 356 

Sandwiches .... 232-4 

Sauces .... 239,273-5 

for soups 184 

pudding 273-5 

vegetable 239 

mode of blending . . 206 

Sauteing 85 

Serial Test Meals in Ul- 
cer of the Stomach . 464 
Scarlet Fever, Diet in . 374 
Schmidt's Intestinal Diet 468 
Schlayer's Nephritic Test 

Diet 521-2 

School Lunches . . . 603 

hot 604 

Scurvy 419, 592 

Shell-fish 147 



644 



GENERAL INDEX 



Page 

Sherbet 291-3 

Sherry (See Beverages, 

Stimulating) . . . 281 
Sick, Feeding the . . 329-31 
methods of .... 329 
of making food digest- 
ible 330 

physicians' directions 

for 329 

service of food in . . 331 

Simmering 84-5 

Sippy's Treatment of 

Peptic Ulcer . . 457-9 
Skin Diseases . . . 537-45 
diet in (Skin and Can- 
cer Hospital, New 
York) .... 544-45 

eczema 539 

Bulkley diet in . . 539 
Furunculosis Boils . 544 

Sodium 18 

Soft or Light Diet . . 356 
Soper's High Blood Pres- 
sure Diet .... 438 

Souffles 259-61 

Soups 183-92 

accompaniments of . . 192 
for diabetics . . . 184-92 
preparation of ... 183 

sauces for 184 

stock 183 

Soy Bean Bread . . .211 

Spaghetti 347 

Spices 24 

Spinach 236 

Starch . . . . 8-11,196 

cooking of 9 

chemical principles of . 9 

mechanical principles of 10 

description of .... 7 

digestion of 34 

sources of 7 

tests fon 11 

St. Luke's Hospital, Test 
Meals in Ulcer of the 
Stomach .... 464 
Starch Jellies . . . 203-4 
Starchy Beverages . . 31 1-4 



Page 
Starvation Diet in Dia- 
betes 380 

epilepsy 536 

Steak 118 

Steaming 85 

Steapsin 32 

Stearates (Stearin) . . 11 

Stearic Acid 11 

Sterilization of Food . 77-8 

milk 175 

Stewing 84-5 

Stirring 83 

Stoke's Mixture . . . 311 

Stomach 29-30 

absorption in .... 29 

acids of 29 

fundus of 29 

pylorus of ... . 29-30 
Stomach, Diseases of, 

Diet in 443 

ulcer of, diet in. See 
Ulcer .... 449-65 
Stones, Kidney, Diet in . 507 
Stools, Abnormal, in In- 
fancy 589 

Storage of Food ... 78 
Strawberries . . . 260, 378 
Streptococcus .... 2>77 

Sucrase 34 

Sucrose 7 

absorption of ... 7, 40 
description of .... 7 

source of 7 

use of in diet 7 

Suet 12 

Sugar, absorption of . . 5-8 
amount of in blood . . 45 
beet. See Sucrose 
cane. See Sucrose 
digestion of .... 34 

invert 245 

maple. See Sucrose 
substitutes for ... 8, 213 

syrup 298 

tests for 8 

Sulphur 17 

foods rich in .... 25 
Surgical Cases, Diet in 558-67 

abdominal 558 

Finney's Diet for Gastro- 



GENERAL INDEX 



645 



Page 
Surgical Cases {continued) 

Enterostomy . . . 567 



food needs in 
gastric . 
other organs 
post-operative 

gastric 
types of 



• 559 

• 558 

• 558 
550-67 

567-8 
559 



Vaughn and Van Dyke 
Post-operative Diet . 561-6 
Sutherland's Anemia 

Diet 548-9 

Sweetbreads .... 130-3 

cooking of ... 131-3 

food value of . . . .131 

Sweetina . . 8, 213, 298, 306 

T. 

Tallow . ... 11 

Tamarinds 303 

Tapioca .... 5,269-70 
Test Diets in Anemia . 553 

in diabetes 382 

" intestinal 470 

" nephritis .... 521-2 

"ulcer (Ewald) . . 463-5 

Thermometry .... 105 

Throat Affections, Diet in 376 

Toast 31,37 

Tolerance Diet in Ulcer 

(Carter's) 463 

Tomatoes . . . 22,238,378 
Tonsilitis, Diet in . . . 376 
Top Milk Formulae 

10, 218-22, 581 

Tray 89-95 

arrangement of . . 89-90 

breakfast 91 

dinner 93 

full dinner service and 94-5 
general notes and in- 
structions concerning . 89 

luncheon 92 

Trypsin 31, 37 

Tryptophane ... 16, 276 
Tuberculosis . . . 421-32 
diet in (Loomis Sanato- 
rium) .... 421-32 
administration of . . 423 



Page 
Tuberculosis (continued) 

antiacid 428 

anticonstipation . . 428 
food needs of ... 421 
high calory feeding in 424 
kinds of food in . . 423 
low cost diet in . . 431 
protein requirements of 422 
suggested standards for 422 

Tubers 230 

Turnips 230 

Tympanites in High Cal- 
ory Feeding .... 363 
Typhoid Fever . . . 364-74 

diet in 364-74 

Carter's 372 

high calory (Cole- 
man) .... 364-72 
kind of foods in (Rose) 374 
Kinnicutt's . . . 373-4 

u. 

Ulcer of the Stomach 449-65 
ambulatory cases, diet in 

(Carter) .... 462 

Bastedo's diet in . . 459-60 
bismuth in ... 457-8 

convalescent diet in 

(Janeway) .... 465 
Einhorn's diet in . . 449-51 
duodenal feeding in 461-2 
hemorrhage in, diet for 

(Lenhartz) . . . 456 

Von Leube-Lockwood, 

diet in 457 

Lenhartz diet in . . 452-6 
rectal feeding in . . 451-2 
Sippy diet in . . . 457~9 
test meals in ... 463-5 

Ewald 463 

Leube 464 

Riegel 464 

serial test meals . . 464 

St. Luke's Hospital . 464 

tolerance diet in (Carter) 463 

vomiting in, diet in . . 463 

Unconscious, Feeding the 334 

Urea 4^,43 

Uremia, Chronic, Diet in 505-6 



646 



GENERAL INDEX 



Page 

Uric Acid 37% 

■ 395 

• 53i 

• 544 
. . 86 
. . 86 



in gout .... 

neurasthenia 
Urticaria, Diet in . 
Utensils .... 

for measuring . 

V. 

Vanilla 24, 287 

Vaughn and Van Dyke 

Postoperative Diets 561-6 
Vegetable Diet . . . . 194 

foods 194 

• 239 
229-33 
. 229 
. 229 
. 229 
233 



sauces 
Vegetables 
classification of 
composition of 
digestibility of 
energy value of 
five percent carbohydrate 387 
for the diabetic . . 232,387 

green 231 

rules for cooking . . 231-2 
thrice cooked .... 232 

Villi, Intestinal ... 39 
Vinegar . ... . . .24 

Viscera, Animal as Food 113 

Vitamines . . 4, 13, 21-2, 419 

antiscorbutic ... 22 

foods rich in . . . .26 

fat soluble 21 

foods rich in ... 26 
water soluble . . . .21 
foods rich in ... 26 
Vomiting, Dietetic Treat- 
ment of . . 463, 570, 586 
in infant feeding . . . 586 
pregnancy .... 570 
ulcer of the stomach . 463 
Von Leube-Lockwood Ul- 
cer Diet 457 

VonNoorden's Anemia 

Diet 55* 

Obesity Reduction Cure 406 
Obesity diet .... 408 



W. Page 

Wafers 224 

Walnuts 252 

Water 19-20 

absorption of .... 41 

as beverage .... 297 

boiled ...... 20 

composition of .... 19 

content of food in . . 20 
functions of .... 20 

in high blood pressure . 439 
infant feeding . . . 583 

obesity 410 

mineral .... 342,377 
properties of .... 20 
retention of, diet in . . 505 

Watercress 240 

Weaning 584 

Weight in Infant Feeding 5§3 
failure to gain . . . 590 

gain in 576 

Weights (See Measures) 
Weights and Heights, 
Tables of (See Ages) 
Weir-Mitchell Treat- 
ment 530-5 

milk diet in .... 530 
Wet Nurse, Diet of . 57 1 -- 2 

AVhey 172 

Whips 259 

White Rock Mineral 

Water .... 540-57° 
Whole Milk Formula . 579 
Whooping Cough, Diet in 374-5 
vVidal's Salt-poor Diet . 514 
Wine ( See Beverages, 
Stimulating) 

Y. 

Yeast 212 

Z. 

Zein ....... 16 

Zoolak 347 

Zwieback n 



It is delicious, pure and healthful 

Baker's 

Breakfast 

Cocoa 

EXCELS IN ALL THE 

ESSENTIALS OF A 

GOOD COCOA 

has the delicious natural 
flavor of the best cocoa beans, 
scientifically blended, unim- 
paired by the addition of any 

foreign flavoring substances. 

Its purity is unquestioned, 

samples purchased in the 

Begistered U.S. Pat. Office open market servin £ a s 

standards for chemical re- 
search. It is healthful, supplying the body with some 
of the purest elements of nutrition in a most agreeable 
form. These qualities combine to make it the ideal 
food beverage. 

57 HIGHEST AWARDS IN EUROPE AND AMERICA 

Be sure you get the Genuine with the Trade-Mark on the package. Booklet 
of Choice Recipes Sen' Free. 

WALTER BAKER & CO. LTD. 

Established 1780 DORCHESTER, MASS. 




647 



HORSFORD'S 

Acid Phosphate 

The nurse is justified in recom- 
mending the use of Horsford's 
Acid Phosphate as a sickroom bev- 
erage. As a basis for albuminous 
drinks and fruit punches, or simply 
added to the patient's drinking 
water, it affords a welcome change 
to the invalid on a limited or pre- 
scribed diet. 

The Nurse Herself 

will find in Horsford's Acid Phosphate a 
relief from many of the conditions brought 
on by overwork and the so-called brain- 
fag." Non-alcoholic, and containing no 
narcotics, it nevertheless has a refreshing 
and stimulating effect in cases of reduced 
nerve energy. 

RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS 
Providence, R. I. 

T46 10-16 

648 




AMERICA'S MOST FAMOUS DESSERT 

clELfcO 



A' MIXTURE 



SPECIAL PACKAGE 

NET WEIGH! 28 OZS 

MAK ES FOUR QUARTS 

^R ASPBERRY ) 

PURE FRUIT FLAVOR 

VEGETABLE COLOR 
This package makes four quarts of 
JeU-O. Serves forty to fifty per- 
sons according to size of portion, 




Makes One Gallon 
of Jelly 

Six Flavors 



L,Ro™ E Y GENESEE PURE FO °D COMPANY, 

Bridgeburg, One. 



649 



A 



LLL 



Welchs 

Crape 

Juice 



' I ''HE pure juice of October Concords is 

■*■ transferred to new glass bottles with' 

out change , — nothing is added, no water, 

no chemicals, and nothing is taken away. 

This text book has told you of the value 
of natural fruit juices and of grape sugar 
that can easily be assimilated. 



We have prepared an interesting booklet, attractively 
bound in cloth, which will give you the full story of 
Welch's Grape Juice 

how it is made 

its food value 

various uses 

recipes for invalid feeding 



Write today, "Send me a free copy of your booklet 
* Welch* s as a Therapeutic Agent* ". 

The Welch Grape Juice Co* 

Portage Street Westfield, N. Y. 



650 



Endorsed for Over One-Third Century 




The Original -Genuine 

THE CHOICE OF 
DIETITIANS 



A COMPLETE FOOD, well balanced, invig- 
orating and sustaining. Deliriously combines 
fresh, rich milk with an extract of malted barley 
and wheat. Every element is made available so 
that it can be assimilated by the weakest system. 
Health and strength in every glassful. 

CONVENIENTLY PREPARED. A boon 
to tired, busy nurses. Keeps indefinitely. Al- 
ways safe. A useful physiologic sedative in 
insomnia. Answers the dietetic problem of 
a wide range of disorders. 

To obtain reliable results 
avoid imitations 



HORLICK'S, Racine, Wis. 



651 



x^ffi** 




"WASH" 
Don't Scour Teeth 

You would not use a grit cleaner on 
your ivory piano keys. You know what 
it would do to them, you also know how 
readily they give up their dirt to gentle 
washing treatment. Ivory and teeth are 
first cousins — made of the same basic 
substance. 

Every time you scratch your teeth > 
you remove part of the surface. You can 
use Colgate's Ribbon Dental Cream during 
a long lifetime without the slightest in' 
jury to the delicate enamel of your teeth. 

COLGATE'S CLEANS TEETH THE RIGHT WAY 
"Washes" and Polishes — Doesn't Scratch or Scour 




Colgate's Talc Powder is safe — very antiseptic and 
healing where there are chafing or 
excoriations of any kind. 



652 




Gordon S-Dilworth 

CALF S FOOT JELLIES 

This particular form of appetizing nourish- 
ment is prescribed by doctors, and used ex- 
tensively in hospitals, as the most nourishing 
food for invalids, especially in cases where the 
stomach will not retain more solid foods. 

Patients have thrived upon it, alone, for long 
periods, with an appreciable gain in strength. 

Served with shaved or cracked ice, it will be 
found tempting to a poor appetite. At a tem- 
perature of 60 degrees, it becomes a delicate 
jelly which will dissolve quickly when placed 
on the tongue; 

(In half-pint and pint glass 
jars, and 9 or. tumblers) 

Flavors; Sherry, Port, Rum, Cognac and Plain. 

prepared by 
Gordon &Dilworth 

616-620 West 46th .Street 

NEW YORK 



653 



^22V 




PURITY ABSOLUTE FLAVOR UNIQUE 
NOTHING FINER PRODUCIBLE 

"It is our opinion the analytical tests of the UNITED STATES 
BUREAU OF CHEMISTRY prove NICELLE OLIVE OIL 
superior to all known brands tested."— STILL WELL & GLADDING, 
Official Chemists to New York Produce Exchange. 

Its Use Recommended by 
Miss ALIDA FRANCES PATTEE Miss CORNELIA C. BEDFORD 
Miss FANNIE MERRIT FARMER Miss JANET MACKENZIE HILL 

Mr.. HELEN ARMSTRONG Miss ANNA BARROWS 

AND OTHERS 



NICELLE OLIVE OIL CO. 

26 Cortland t Street, New York City 

FOREIGN OFFICES: 
PARIS, 10 Avenue de l'Opera NICE, Rue Georges- Ville 



654 



For the Sick, Convalescent or Well there is 
no finer energy producing food than 

Minute Tapioca 

Its food value is particularly important because 
of its ready digestibility and its easy conversion 
into bodily energy. Minute Tapioca is as pure 
as tapioca can possibly be made and is so pre- 
pared that it softens immediately, thus making 
it very desirable when a particularly nourishing 
and healthful dessert is required quickly. 

Try the Minute Tapioca recipes in this book. 
A section of our Minute Cook Book is de- 
voted to recipes of some especially dainty, 

nourishing desserts for the sick 

room. 



jVo Soaking 
Always Ready 
to CooK 




It is yours for the asking. 
Also a Free sample for your 
grocer's name. 



At AH Good Grocers 



Minute Tapioca Co. 

223 W. Main St. 
Orange, - Mass. 



655 



HOSPITALS 



HOSPITALS desiring 
Dietitians can secure the 
services of graduates from 
leading Schools of House- 
hold Arts by applying to 
A. F. Pattee, 134 South 
First Avenue Mt. Vernon, 
New York. 

Prompt attention given to 
request and no charge is 
made for this service. 



656 




The Date Gardens 
of Mesopotamia 
near junction of 
Tigres and Euph- 
rates rivers pro- 
duce the choicest 
dates in the world. 

Only large golden 
dates are selected 
for Dromedaries. 



SERVE DATES OFTEN 

Dates are seven times richer in food 
lime than beef tenderloin and con- 
tain a third more food iron; also other 
food salts. The recipes in this book 
which call for dates — use Dromedaries, 
ripened in oriental sunlight. 

The Hills Brothers Company 
375 Washington St. .-. New York 



657 



DIETITIANS 



DIETITIANS desiring 
Hospital positions are in- 
vited to register with A. 
F. Pattee, 134 South First 
Avenue, Mount Vernon, 
New York. 

No charge for registration 
is made and only nominal 
charge if position is secured. 



658 



The Original GRANULATED Gelatine 

KNOX 

SPARKLING GELATINE 

The very word diet — ''prescribed eating" — means care 
in the selection as well as the eating of foods. 
Knox Sparkling Gelatine should, for this reason alone, 
be prescribed for dietetics, for it is just the pure, plain 
granulated gelatine to which you add your own pure 
fruit juices, etc. We put no flavoring, coloring or 
sugar in Knox Sparkling Gelatine, but we pack enough 
gelatine in each package to make four separate dishes 
of six servings each. Knox Sparkling Gelatine will 
not upset your diet charts. 

Knox Sparkling Gelatine is an albumin and protein 
sparer. It is an easily assimilated vehicle for other 
food substances, such as fruit and fruit juices, broths, 
etc. Knox Gelatine dishes appeal to the eye — they 
tempt the appetite. 

Knox Sparkling Gelatine has the endorsement of the 
most noted food authorities. It is made from bone 
similar to home-made soup stock — hands never touch 
it in its manufacture. 

Mrs. Charles B. Knox, President. 

Recipe Book "Dainty Desserts for Dainty People" and 
Four • Pint Package FREE to dietitians and nurses who mention 
this book. Out book contains 164 recipes including a number of 
individual dishes for the sick or convalescent Also ask for spetial 
recipe for serving raw eggs. 




CHARLES B. KNOX GELATINE CO., Inc. 

901 KNOX AVENUE, JOHNSTOWN, N. Y. 



659 



National Head- 
quarters f o r 

DIETITIANS 



HOSPITALS desiring dietitians 
can secure the services of grad- 
uates from leading Schools of 
Household Arts by applying to 
us. Prompt attention given to 
request and no charge is made 
for this service. 

DIETITIANS desiring hospital 
positions are invited to register 
with us. No charge for registration 

A. F. PATTEE 

134 South First Avenue, 
Mt. Vernon, New York 



06U 



BREAD AND YEAST 
AND VITAMIN B 

An eminent physiologist says, "that about two- 
thirds of the energy produced by the human body 
is derived from starchy foods." ''Not without warrant 
is bread considered the staff of life." 

Bread supplemented with milk should form the basis 
of the human diet. 

Bread is the most wholesome of energy foods, and 
in its various forms occupies an important place in 
the diet of the invalid. 

The Best Bread is made with 
FLEISCHMANN'S YEAST 

Yeast is not only rich in vitamin B, that recently 
discovered substance in our foods that gives us health 
and vigor, that helps us ward off disease and enables 
us to get the most out of the fuel or energy foods 
that we eat; but is also recognized as a valuable thera- 
peutic agent to build up the appetite and strength dur- 
ing convalescence. 

Its use in other conditions is described in our booklet, 
"The New Importance, of Yeast in Diet," which you 
can obtain on request to 

The Fleischmann Company 

701 Washington Street 

New York City 



661 



Headquarters For 

Pattee's "Practical Dietetics" with refer- 
ence to Diet in Health and Disease. 

Pattee's "Teacher's Dietetic Guide" 
containing the dietetic requirements 
arranged by the National League 
of Nursing Education, The 
American Dietetic Association 
and the State Boards of Examiners 
of Nurses. Contains also the ex- 
amination questions on dietetics 
issued by the various State Boards of 
Examiners of Nurses. 

Pattee's Hand-Bag Diet Book. 

Pattee's Dietitians' Registry. 

All Text Books Jor Nurses Supplied, 

Gingham for Nurses' Uniforms Supplied. 

A. F. PATTEE 

Publisher and Bookseller 

134 South 1st Avenue 
Mt. Vernon, N. Y. 



662 



Burnham's 
Clam Bouillon 




The unadulterated juice of the 
Clam. 

A tissue builder for the emaciated. 

Contains readily assimilable or- 
ganic phosphates. 

Strengthening. Easily and speed- 
ily absorbed. 

Harmless to the most delicate 
infant. 



ii a delicious, nourishing and 
absolutely sterile preparation 
of Clams put up by our own 
process, without the use of 
any preservative save bottling 
with heat. The containers 
are of glass, pints and half 
pints. 

The delicate flavor and odor 
from Clam Bouillon is what 
renders it so palatable and re- 
freshing to an invalid, and on 
account of its digestive and 
stimulating properties entitles 
it to the highest recommenda- 
tion. A person having a weak 
stomach can retain Clam 
Bouillon where all other food 
preparations are rejected. 

Appetizing, Delicious, Healthful. 

Put up in glass only; pints and 
half pints. 

Sold by leading grocers and 
druggists. 

Booklet and samples will be 
sent to physicians and nurses 
on application. 



Various ivays of preparing and serving Clam Bouillon 
are fully given in this book. 

E. S. BURNHAM PACKING COMPANY 



53 GANSEVOORT STREET 



NEW YORK CITY 



663 



Teacher's 
Dietetic Guide 



A practical little work giving authentic 
outlines showing the requirements in 
dietetics of the 

National League of Nursing Education 
The American Dietetic Association 

and the various 

State Boards of Examiners of Nurses 

The examination questions in dietetics 
actually used by the various states are given. 

This will materially aid the Superintend- 
ent or Dietitian in arranging a course of 
study for the nurse so as to prepare her 
adequately for her State examinations. 

Teacher's Dietetic Guide is given gratis 
with each copy of Pattee's Practical 

Dietetics and is not sold separately. 

Price of Pattee's Practical Dietetics, 14th 
edition, and Teacher's Dietetic Guide is 
$2.60 Postpaid. 

A. F. PATTEE, Publisher 
134 So. First Ave., Mount Vernon, N. Y. 



664 



Dr. Brush's 

UMYSff 

(tpade mark) 

Sfiarh/ing 

Mill 

jBeverage 
Invigorates 
Nourishes 

Energ lzes 




Order by 

full name 

Dr. BRUSH'S 
KUMYSS 



KEEP COLO 



OR. BRUSH'? 

KUMYSS 

KUMYSS , InC 

NEW YORK .N.V 




Made oi\ly by' 
Kumyss, Incorporated 

E.F. Brush, M.D., President 
620 West 46th Street - New\brk 



665 



Awarded the Gold Medal at the Paris 1910 Internationale 
d'Alimentation Exposition 




THE GLUTEN OF WHEAT 
SEPARATED BY A SCIENTIFIC PROCESS RETAIN- 
ING THE NATURAL PHOSPHATES AND SALTS 

For the special benefit and convenience of the busy prac- 
titioner, who has scant time for extended research, we have 
collected from experiences of the highest authoritative 
sources as follows: 

"There is no other single food-substance in the whole realm of Nature 
so important and valuable in human diet as this chief nourisher, Gluten, 
resident in all vegetable forms. Gluten is the prime structural necessity 
of cereal growth, the spinal column in all vegetable life. Distinctively, 
it is the one great muscle-maker of the cereal grains, without whicn they 
would be as useless as the soil deprived of sunlight and moisture." 

—Prof. Parshall in "Food Values." 
"'Gluten extracted from wheaten flour satisfies by itself prolonged and 
complete nutrition." 

- — The French Academ;' of Science. 
"Gluten is the most important of all nitrogenous substances because 
it is capable of supporting life when given alone." 

— Henry Lewes in "Physiology of Common Life." 
"Gluten satisfies in itself all that Nature demands for prolonged and 
complete nutrition. It is a non-acid-making, non-fermenting food, and 
we feel justified in asking physicians to give it a thorough trial. ' 

— Albert Harris Hoy, M. D., in "Eating and Drinking." 
"With the system making free use of Gluten there is no opportunity 
for toxaemia. It makes a blood in which toxins are out of place." 

— Gifford Knox, M. D. 
"Undoubtedly, millions of human beings are today committing slow 
suicide by a too excessive ingestion of the carbohydrates." 

— Dr. F. W. Pavey, R. 3.. London. 

GLUTEN AS A BUILDER 

Gluten Foods as prepared by this company, being a high concen- 
tration of the combined nutrients of the wheat grain, are remarkably 
rich in nucleo-albumen and all other cell-building material. They are 
capable of greatly quickening the integrating processes of cell life, and 
giving impulsive energy in the revival of the system. 

They may be given in the form of the most delicate and tasty soup* 
or broths made from our Gluten flour; or in the form of bread, rolls, 
gems or muffins. 

A little gluten at a meal, even once a day, is noticeable in the well 
being of the individual. 

666 



THE VALUE OF GLUTEN KNOWN FOR CENTURIES 

The ancient Greeks knew the value of gluten as a special diet and 
learned to wash it out from wheat flour. This has been done in all of the 
old countries for ages. Dr. Knox found the Indian women of Canada sep- 
arating it and making bread and biscuits for any member of the family 
under a severe strain, and always using it to strengthen the mother before 
child birth. 

The gluten gives to flour that nutty flavor. Extracted by itself it 
is somewhat bitter but satisfying. 

To eliminate Fatigue Poison, the dead worn-out cells from our own 
system, is quite enough without taking in more from eating meat. The 
clean Gluten protein extracted from wheat saves that overwork. 

Hoyt's Gluten in a gruel added to milk for infant feeding forms it 
into flakes like mother's milk instead of curdling into a ball. It makes 
cross babies good and builds muscle. Children always like it. 



LIST OF HOYT'S FOOD PRODUCTS 

Gluten Bread Flour. Used instead of White Flour in making all kinds 
of baked products. 

Gluten and Bran Mixture. 45 per cent protein — our newest product. 

Gluten Self-Rising Flour. For muffins, biscuits, and griddle cakes. 

The above all higher than the Government Standard. 

Special Gum Gluten. For most severe cases. Listed by the American 
Medical Association — 80 per cent protein. 

Whole Wheat Bread Flour. Ground to the correct granulation on the 
old stone mills. 

Whole Wheat Self-Rising Flour. Makes delicious pancakes, muffins 
and biscuits. 

All of above put up in 3, 6 and 12J4 pound bags 



HOYT'S SWEETINA— IN PURE CRYSTALS 

For 50 Cents a bottle of Hoyt's Sweetina will be mailed you on receipt 
of price, equal in sweetening power to Eight Pounds of Sugar. 

Recommended where sugars are prohibitive. 

The contents of a bottle of crystals makes a pint of syrup by dissolving 
it in cold water. 

OUR FOODS MAY BE PURCHASED FROM OUR DISTRIBU- 
TOR, USUALLY THE LEADING GROCER, OR DIRECT FROM US. 

PURE GLUTEN FOOD COMPANY 

90 WEST BROADWAY NEW YORK CITY 

667 



"The School Lunch" 

"ITS ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT 
IN PHILADELPHIA" 

By EMMA SMEDLEY 

director of 'Public School Lunches 
in Philadelphia, Pa. 

"The School Lunch" is a history of the development of 
the lunch system as operated in the Philadelphia public 
schools. 

It presents the details of an administrative scheme for a 
system of lunch service adaptable to any school com- 
munity, as well as the method of conducting the noon 
lunch in the individual high school and the recess lunch 
in the elementary school. 

It contains chapters devoted to equipment, menus, pur- 
chasing of supplies, system of records and accounting and 
methods of cooperation between the school lunch and the 
classes in cookery. It is illustrated, showing counter ar- 
rangement, style of tables and seats, equipment, floor 
plans, record blanks, etc. 

Price, $3.00 Postpaid 

FOR SALE BY 

A. F. PATTEE Mount Vernon, N. Y. 

668 



Rob The Wheat 
And You Cheat The Child 

THAT'S not a fanciful statement, but a 
cold, hard fact. 

Little growing bodies must have the mus- 
cle-making, bone-building mineral salts 
found in the outer layers of the wheat grain. 

These vital food elements are lost in "re- 
fining" wheat to produce white flour. 

They are all retained in Wheatsworth 
Whole Wheat Crackers. 

Delicious Wheatsworth Whole Wheat 
Crackers are building sturdy frames and 
strong muscles for thousands of healthy, 
happy youngsters. 

Give your children unrobbed food and 
watch results. 

Samples mailed free on request. 

F. H. BENNETT BISCUIT CO. 

Millers and Bakers, New York 

Wheatsworth 

t T The Whole Wheat Cracker 



669 



THE THIRD EDITION REVISED AND ENLARGED 

INSTITUTION RECIPES 

FOR USE IN 

SCHOOLS, COLLEGES, HOSPITALS, 
AND OTHER INSTITUTIONS 

By EMMA SMELDLEY 

Director of School Luncheons, Philadelphia, Pa., formerly Instructor 

in Domestic Science, Drexel Institute, Philadelphia; and 

Instructor in Dietetics, The Johns Hopkins Hospital 

Training School for Nurses, Baltimore, Md. 

"INSTITUTION RECIPES" is unlike the usual cookery book 

which is designed for use in the home, as the recipes here 

given are in quantities to serve fifty, or one hundred and fifty portions. 

This third edition of Institution Recipes has been carefully 
revised. Many new recipes have been added for soups, meats, 
salads, sandwiches and desserts, which are appropriate for the 
School Luncheon, Cafeteria, Mountain Camp, College and Hospital 

The use of flour substitutes, to conform with the Food 
Administration regulations, is also treated. 

A new feature is the addition of the Caloric Value of a 
single serving of each recipe. This will simplify the labor of 
planning the balanced menu. 

Institution Recipes has proved indispensable to the dietition 
in hospitals, colleges, school lunch rooms; in the United States 
Government Cantonments and Base Hospitals; and in Young 
Men's and Young Women's Christian Association Cafeterias in 
all parts of the United States and Canada. 

The Teacher of Home Economics cannot afford to be with- 
out this standard work, as a general reference book, and as a 
text-book for the course in Institutional Management. 
"May save you its cost in one day." 

Price, $3.00 Post Paid 

FOR SALE BY 

A. F. PATTEE, Mount Vernon, N. Y. 

670 



IN FILLING OUT RESTRICTED DIETS, 
SUCH AS IN THE TREATMENT OF 

DIABETES 

AND 

OBESITY 

CELLU FLOUR 

(NO FOOD VALUE) 
ASSURES 

PALATABI LITY 

AND 

SATISFACTION 



SEND FOR RECIPES. ETC. 

THE CELLU FLOUR MILL 

2600 W. CHICAGO AVE., CHICAGO, ILL. 



671 



Gingham for Nurses 9 Uniforms 




A. F. PATTEE 



134 South First Avenue 



Mount Vernon, N« Y, 



672 




NEXT in importance to the proper feeding 
of the inner man is the proper care cf 
the outer man. 

Ivory Soap is recognized, not only by the gen- 
eral public but by the professional world too, 
as the best means for keeping the skin thor- 
oughly clean without irritation. 
Its purity enables it to produce the aseptic condition 
which is cleanliness in the strictest sense. And its 

mildness permits of its continual use even on the skin 
cf a baby. 

Like a carefully chosen diet, Ivory Soap is free from 
troublesome ingredients which, in soap, are uncom- 
bined alkali and unsaponified oil. And it includes all the 
desirable factors, which are quick lather, easy rincing- 
whiteness, sweet natural odor, mildness, purity and 
economy. 



These Books Free to You 

'The Baby Book" — A professional treatise on the care of 

children. Ivory Soap mentioned only in reference to 

bathing:, washing: of clothes, etc. 
'The Bride's Book" — A collection cf cleanir.2 recipes 

helpful to the new housekeeper. 
'Unusual Uses of Ivory Soap" — Over a hundred recipes 

for cleaning- articles not ordinarily washed vrith soap and 

water. 



Addrczs Tee Pbocteb & Gamble Co. Dept. 



Cincinnati, 0. 



IVORY SOAP 




99 &% PURE 



( V PiLOAf- 



673 



VITILOR 

connections 
are made to 
fit any faucet 




VITALIZED WATER (Colloidal Water) 

is a scientifically correct drinking water and is 
so named because the water passing through 
THE VITILOR forms a Colloidal Solution of 
the kind that promotes oxidation, which is the 
vital process of living matter. 

Many years ago it was discovered that the 
chief cause of tuberculosis was lack of oxygen 
and later it has been stated by Martin Ficher 
that the cause of nephritis was insufficient oxy- 
gen reaching the kidneys. It is probable that 
before many years roll by it will be found 
that other diseases which demand a great toll 
of life are caused by lack of oxidation. 

In pathological conditions this water is indi- 
cated in nephritis, diabetes, and in those con- 
ditions requiring a reduction of C0 2 and active 
kidneys. In acute conditions it accelerates a 
particularly rapid evacuation of pus and healing 
of wounds. 

Copies of certificates of analyses by Dr. 
Deghuey, Dr. E. E. Smith, and others on 
request. 

COLLOIDAL WATER PROCESS 

118 West 43rd Street New York City 



674 




THE MOST NATURAL NURSING BOTTLE, FOR BABY, 
is the Hygeia. HYGEIA is the name of the GODDESS OF 
HEALTH; and babies, who use this nursing bottle, are kept more 
healthy than those on some other 
nurser, that is more difficult to clean. 

All parts of the Hygeia Nursing 
Bottle are open and accessible for 
thorough and rapid cleansing. 

The Hygeia breast makes weaning 
easy. It is also the bottle to use 
when mother's supply of milk is 
failing. 

This nursing bottle is recom- 
mended by physicians. BECAUSE 
IT ACTUALLY LESSENS BABY 
MORTALITY. 

The name HYGEIA appears on 
the food-cell, also on the breast- 
nipple. Accept no other. 

If you have any difficulty in nurs- 
ing baby, write us. We shall be 
pleased to respond. 



Manufactured only by 




Food-Cell 



THE HYGEIA NURSING BOTTLE CO, 



1206 MAIN STREET 



BUFFALO, N. Y. 



675 



NURSES' JOURNAL 

Send your subscription to 

A. F. Pattee 

MOUNT VERNON 
NEW YORK 

The American Journal Of Nursing (issued 

monthly) per year . $3.00 

The Trained Nurse (issued monthly) per year 3.00 

The Canadian Nurse (issued monthly) per 

year 2.00 

The Pacific Coast Journal of Nursing 

(issued monthly) per year 2.50 

The Modern Hospital (issued monthly) per 

year , . . . . 3.00 

Journal of Home Economics (issued month- 
ly) per year . . < 2.50 

The American Cookery Magazine (issued 

monthly) per year 1.50 



676 



H^^^gg. 



VAPORIZER 

IS SIX 

INCHES 

HIGH 



Established 1879 



LASTS A 
LIFETIME 




Treatment without internal medication is highly desirable in Whooping 
Cou^h and Spasmodic Croup, particularly in the very young. The value 
of \ apo-Cresolene depends upon its antiseptic power and the sedative 
influence of the vapor diffused through the air, and thus constantly 
breathed by the patient. Breathing becomes easy, desire to cough is 
allayed and the patient gains needful rest. 

The diseases in which Cresolene has been especially utilized are 
Whooping Cough, Spasmodic Croup, Influenza, Bronchitis, 
Asthma, Broncho-pneumonia, the bronchial complications of Scar- 
let-Fever and Measles and as an aid in the treatment of Diphtheria. 

A i% solution of Cresolene in water kills the germs of Diphtheria, 
Typhoid Fever and pus at once. Cresolene is less toxic than carbolic 
acid and has a greater germicidal value. 



For sale by Druggists. 



Literature on request. 



THE VAPO-CRESOLENE CO. 

64 Cortlandt Street, New York City. 

Leeming-Miles Building, Montreal, Canada. 



677 



Bacteriology in a Nutshell 

Enlarged From 200 to 232 Pages 

Tenth Edition. Revised and Amended, with Supple- 
ment on Serum Therapy 
WRITTEN BY A NURSE FOR NURSES 

Have You Seen the Book? If not, why not? 

Endorsed by the Profession and Adopted by Many of Our 
Best Training Schools in the United States and Canada. 
Translated into Chinese in 1914 and Adopted by the Amer- 
ican Nurses' Association in China as their Text Book in 
Chinese Training Schools for Nurses. 

Eight Chapters and Supplement 

History of Bacteriology. 

Relation of Bacteria to Dis- 
ease. 

Description of the Most Im- 
portant Bacteria. 

Bacterial Invasion. 

Common Communicable Dis- 
eases. 

Bacteria in Surgery, Sepsis, 
Asepsis, Antisepsis. 

Solutions, Fumigations, etc. 

Hygienic Precautions. 

Supplement (By Request) 
Ehrlich's Hypothesis. 
Serum Therapy. 

Marginal notes throughout the book add greatly to 

its value. 

Price, Paper Cover, $1.25; Boards, $1.75 

Order direct from the Editor and Compiler 

MARY E. REID, R. N. 

1228 Elm wood Ave., Charleston-on-Kanawha, W. Va. 

Or From 
A. F. Pattee Mt. Vernon, New York 



Chapter 
Chapter 


I. 
II. 


Chapter 


III. 


Chapter 
Chapter 


IV. 
V. 


Chapter 


VI. 


Chapter 
Chapter 


VII. 
VIII. 


Chapter 
Chapter 


buppJ 

I. 

II. 



678 



20-MULE TEAM GRANULATED 
BORIC ACID, U. S. P. 

is manufactured expressly for making a 
quick BORIC ACID solution. The 
granules being porous will absorb water 
very readily. 

All Doctors and Nurses who have tried 
20-MULE TEAM GRANULATED 
BORIC ACID, highly recommend same. 

Write for a Liberal Sample. It will be 
Sent Gratis- 

PACIFIC COAST BORAX CO. 

Dept. P., 100 William St., New York 
Chicago San Francisco 



679 



NURSES' JOURNAL 
COMBINATION OFFERS 

The Following Offers Apply to New Subscriptions Only 

The American Journal of Nursing (3.00) 
and one copy of 
Pattee's Practical Dietetics (2.60) . . $5.10 

The Trained Nurse (3.00) and one copy of 

Pattee's Practical Dietetics (2.60) . . .5.10 

The Canadian Nurse (2.00) and one copy of 

Pattee's Practical Dietetics (2.60) . . . 4.10 

The Pacific Coast Journal of Nursing 

(2.50) and one copy of 

Pattee's Practical Dietetics (2.60) . . . 4.60 

The Modern Hospital (3.00) and one copy of 

Pattee's Practical Dietetics (2.60) . . . 5.10 

Journal of Home Economics (2.50) and 
one copy of 
Pattee's Practical Dietetics (2.60) . . . 4.60 

The American Cookery Magazine (1.50) 

and one copy of 

Pattee's Practical Dietetics (2.60) . . . 3.60 

A. F. PATTEE 

134 South First Avenue 
Mount Vernon, N. Y. 



680 



Trademark 
Registered 



Trademark 
Registered 



STORM 

Binder and Abdominal Supporter 



PATENTED 



Trade 
Mark 




Trade 
Mark 



For Men, Women and Children 

For General Support in visceroptosis, obesity, general 
relaxation of abdominal walls, etc., etc. 

For Special Support in hernia, relaxation of the sacro- 
iliac articulations, floating kidney, descent of 
stomach, colon and intestines. 

For Post-Operative Support of incisions in upper, 
middle and lower abdomen, as after operations 
upon stomach, gallbladder, liver, appendix and 
pelvic organs. 

For Maternity Cases, for the nausea and discomforts 
of pregnancy. 

Every Binder is made to order from data furnished us by 

the physician. None are "ready-made." Each is 

designed for the special needs of the case. 

Ask for 36-page Illustrated Folder. 
Mail orders filled at Philadelphia only — within 24 hours. 

Katherine L. Storm, M.D. 

Originator, Patentee, Owner and Maker 
1701 DIAMOND ST. PHILADELPHIA 

681 



BOOKS ON DIETETICS 

By 
MARY SWARTZ ROSE 

Associate Professor, Department of Nutrition, 
Teachers College, Columbia University 

FEEDING THE FAMILY 

This is a clear and concise account in simple everyday 
terms of the ways in which modern knowledge of the 
science of nutrition may be applied in ordinary life. The 
food needs of the different members of the typical family 
group — men, women, infants, children of various ages — 
are discussed in separate chapters, and many concrete 
illustrations in the form of food plans and dietaries are 
included. The problems of the housewife in trying to 
reconcile the needs of different ages and tastes at the 
same table are also taken up, as are the cost of food and 
the construction of menus. A final chapter deals with 
feeding the sick. 

This book is a practical, non-technical, but thor- 
oughly scientific, presentation of the subject of nutrition. 
Its use by housewives and college classes is equally 
successful. 

449 pages, Illustrated, 12° $2.40 



A LABORATORY HANDBOOK FOR DIETETICS 
REVISED EDITION 

By Mary Swartz Rose 

A series of definite exercises for laboratory work in 
dietetics, accompanied by problems and explanations of 
calculations. There is also included a series of reference 
tables giving food values, for use in laboratory calcula- 
tions, which are in a more convenient form than can be 
found elsewhere. A table showing the distribution of 
vitamines in a hundred of the commoner foods represents 
the present state of our knowledge on this subject. 
156 pages, 8° $2.10 



A. 

134 So. 1st Ave. 



For Sale By 

F. PATTEE 

Mt. Vernon, New York 



682 



Endorsed by Physicians 




Endorsed by Nurses 



WHITE ROCK is the Leading Mineral 
Water and is prescribed Liberally. 



683 



Pattee's 
Hand=Bag Diet Book 

Consisting of 

Measures and Weights, Recipes 
and Hospital Dietaries 

REPRINTED FROM 

Pattee's "Practical Dietetics with 
Reference to Diet in Health and Disease" 



IN response to requests from a large number 
of nurses these extracts from the Pattee's 
* 'Practical Dietetics with Reference to Diet 
in Health and Disease" have been collated into a 
small book, suitable for the nurse's hand-bag. 

It is bound in heavy paper and is sold only 
to nurses, purchasers of the complete edition. 
Those who do not purchase both the complete 
book and the Hand- Bag Diet Book at the same 
time can obtain the latter only when the coupon 
on the opposite page is forwarded to the publisher 
or bookseller from whom book was purchased 
and is accompanied by the nurse's professional 
card or hospital order and the price of the 
book. Orders will not be filled unless these 
instructions are followed. 

Price of Pattee's "Practical Dietetics" ($2.60 
postpaid) with one copy Pattee's Hand-Bag Diet 
Book, $3.20 postpaid. 

This booklet is not published for general circula- 
tion, simply for the convenience of the nurse for 
her hand-bag equipment. 

NOTE FOLLOWING PAGE 

684 



COUPON 

The possession of this coupon entitles any 
nurse to the right to purchase one copy of Pattee's 
Hand-Bag Diet Book. 

Send this coupon with your professional card 
or hospital order and 60 cents to the publisher or to 
the bookdealer from whom the book was purchased, 
and a copy will be forwarded postpaid. 

A. F. PATTEE, Publisher 
Mount Vernon New York 



Nc 



Address. 



:VOTE PRECEDING PAGE 

685 



INDEX TO SUPPLIES 

FOR THE 

HOSPITAL^HOME— PHYSICIAN— NURSE 

"Good nutrition depends upon pure and healthful food." 

There is no subject which should more engross attention than the 

purity of the preparations that are used in the various compounds for the 

human stomach, and in the sick-room. 

FOODS AND UTENSILS: 

Baker's Breakfast Cocoa 647 

Burnham's Clam Bouillon 663 

Calf's Foot Jellies 653 

Cellu Flour 671 

Dromedary Dates 657 

Dr. Brush's Kumyss 665 

Fleischmann's Yeast 661 

Horlick's Malted Milk 651, 687 

Horsford's Acid Phosphate 648 

Hoyt's Gluten Flour and Food Products 666, 667 

Jell-O 649 

Knox Sparkling Gelatine 659 

Minute Tapioca 655 

Nicelle Olive Oil 654 

Rumford Baking Powder 610 

Vitalized Water (Colloidal Water) 674 

Welch's Grape Juice 650 

Wheatsworth Whole Wheat Crackers 669 

White Rock Mineral Water 683 

MISCELLANEOUS SUPPLIES: 

Bacteriology in a Nutshell (Reid) 678 

Boric Acid (20-Mule Team Granulated) 679 

Colgate's Ribbon Dental Cream 652 

Coupon for Pattee's Hand-Bag Diet Book 685 

Dietitians Desiring Hospital Positions 658 

Dietitians' Registry 658, 660 

Feeding the Family (Rose) 682 

Fellows' Compound Syrup of the Hypophosphites 628 

Gingham for Nurses' Uniforms 672 

Hand-Bag Diet Book 684 

Headquarters for Pattee's Supplies 662 

Hospitals Desiring Dietitians 656, 660 

Hygeia Nursing Bottle 675 

Institution Recipes (Smedley) 670 

Ivory Soap 673 

Laboratory Handbook for Dietetics (Rose) 682 

National Headquarters for Dietitians 660 

Nurses' Journals 676 

Nurses' Journals Combination Offers 680 

Pattee's Dietitians' Registry 658, 660 

Pattee's Hand-Bag Diet Book 684 

Pattee's Practical Dietetics ; — 662 

Pattee's State Board Requirements and Examination Questions in 

Dietetics 664 

Pattee's Teacher's Dietetic Guide 664 

State Board Examination Questions in Dietetics 664 

"Storm" Binder and Abdominal Supporter 681 

"Teacher's Dietetic Guide" (Pattee) 664 

"The School Lunch" (Smedley) 668 

The Vitilor (Smith) 674 

Vapo-Cresolene 677 

By writing to the above firms useful literature and samples will be 

forwarded upon request. In writing, please mention Pattee'* Practical 

Dietetics. This courtesy will be greatly appreciated. 

686 



"Practical Dietetics" Recipes Include 




Highest Quality - Always ReliabU 

THE FOOD-DRINK 
FOR ALL AGES 



FOR INFANTS AND NURSING 
MOTHERS. The fact that thousands of in- 
fants have been reared successfully on "Hor- 
lick's" proves that it meets the food require- 
ments of the young. Nursing mothers find its 
use of advantage in maintaining their strength 
and to increase the flow of milk. 

PROMOTES CONVALESCENCE. Being 
well balanced, palatable and partially predi- 
gested it is used most successfully in the dietetic 
treatment of gastro-intestinal diseases, fevers, 
wasting and nervous disorders and for medical 
and surgical cases generally. 

Samples and literature prepaid 
upon request 



HORLICK'S, Racine, Wis. 



687 



DATE DUE SLIP 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA MEDICAL SCHOOL LIBRARY 

THIS BOOK IS DUE ON THE LAST DATE 
STAMPED BELOW 



M 2 - 192 9 
, U l 2 6 ASM 

DEC 1 1930 

MAR 2 4 m 

MAY 121931 
MAY 2 6 1931. 
OCT 2 7 W31 



tfP 



'■*l \*& 



W 



IQ'V* 



JM* 



26^ 



lm-7,'25 






216 Pattee, A. P. 
Practical 

14th ed. . 



rev 



£ 



-. 



18244 
dietetics... 
completely 






J M 2 - t92<*EB J 2 



?■ 5 193U 
jffl, ■ 1 93QJ 



i33a 



~G 7 1930 
plO 1930 DEC 1 



MAR g 4 iqi 



WW 8 6 II 
JUN 12 



'4^ 



19 



31 



T cr 2 7 1931 












3 1931 







lm-9,'25 



Library of the 

"University of California Medical School 

and Hospitals 



rt 



