^^i^mn^ 




PBHADEiPlIA 



AUTOCAMPING 



i 




■■■■HiliMI 

Enjoying an Afternoon of It 



AUTOCAMPING 



By 

F. E. BRIMMER, M.A. 

Autocamping Editor of Outdoor Life; Vacation With Your Auto- 
inobile Editor, The New York Evening Post Outing 
Page; Motor Camping Contributor Lead- 
ing Outdoor Press 



ILLUSTRATIONS FROM 
PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE AUTHOR 




CINCINNATI 

ST5:\\ ARl' Kri»D COMPANY 

PUBLISHERS 



Copyright, 1923, by 
STEWART KIDD COMPANY 




All Rights Renerved 



Printed irtUe U^keSStateiof Ara^rica.' . » ^ 
• ^ ' • • ', |T*Hfi Caxton Press * • » . . ^ ,*' .' ',• 

'Everybody jfoi Books." This it one of the Interlaken'i.ibrary 



'■^HP- 



I 



To 
GLORIA BESS BRIMMER 

Likely the Youngest of All Autoeampers, 

And Her Sunny Smile of Six Months, 

The Inspiration of this Book 



259883 



Contents 

Chapter Page 

I Autocamping Independence 15 

II Your Roadside Home, the Tent. ... 24 

III Sleeping in Hades or Elysium, 

the Bed 45 

IV The Combination Tent and Bed. . . 62 
V Comfortable Clothing 73 

VI The Stove for the Purpose 84 

VII Keeping Food Fit, Refrigerator 

Basket 105 

VIII Camp Cookery and Utensils 118 

IX Autocamp Furniture, Furnishings, 

and Fixtures 136 

X Camp Illumination 150 

XI Making the Youngsters Comfort- 
able 160 

XII The Autocamper's Castle, the 

Trailer 170 

XIII The Camera for Autocamping 

Pictures 183 

9 



CONTENTS 

Page 
XIV The Doctor in Camp 199 

XV Hunting and Fishing Equipment. . . 210 

XVI Packing Your Gasoline Burro .... 



XVII The Ethics of Autocamping and 

Road Lore 240 

Index 254 



10 



List of Illustrations 

Enjoying an Afternoon of It Frontispiece 

Page 

1. The Gypsy Autotent 33 

2. The Way-Side Outing Outfit 33 

3. A Pair of Amazon Motor Tents 33 

4. The Burch Tourist Auto Tent 33 

1. The Schilling Autotent 37 

2. The Brooks Umbrella Tent 37 

3. The Des Moines Tour Tent 37 

1. McMillin Auto Bed over Car Seats. ... 49 

2. Kenwood Wool Sleeping Bags on a Gold 

Metal Automatic Single Cot 49 

3. Metropolitan Comfort Sleeping Pocket 

with Foot Extended under Cot 49 

4. The A. B. C. Car Bed 49 

1. Schaefer Half Wall Outfit 63 

2. A. B. C. Tent-Bed Camp 63 

3. Another A. B. C. Tent-Bed Outfit 63 

4. The Gold Medal Tent-Bed Apartment. . 63 

1. Duxbak Outing Dress for Men or 

W^omen, and Russell Moccasin Pac 

Boots 77 

2. Ideal Woman's Outfit of Duxbak Riding 

Breeches, Norfolk Coat, Waterproof 
Hat and Leggings, with Army W^ool 

Shirt Altered to Form a Middy 77 

11 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

Page 

1. Cree Tent Wood Stove with Pipe and 

Legs 87 

2. Common-Sense Collapsible Stove 87 

3. Using the Gasoline Kampkook Oven ... 87 

4. The Little Red-E Camp Stove 87 

5. The Livingood Folding Wood Stove .... 87 

6. Kampkook Gasoline Stove and Kitchen- 

ette 87 

The Refrigerator Basket Carries Your Food 
Anywhere, and the Gasoline Two Burner 
Cooks It Anywhere 107 

Wearever Four-Party Cooking and Eating 
Outfit Built of Aluminum and Made to 
Nest Compactly 130 

1. Hardy's Campers' Friend Table-Utensil 

Outfit 143 

2. Suitcase Outfit of Eating Utensils 143 

3. Air Bed Rolled, Refrigerator Basket, 

Gas Stove, Cree Wood Stove, Double 
Cot, etc 143 

4. The A. B. C. Bed Mat Stretched for 

Table 143 

5. Prest-0-Lite Cooking and Lighting Out- 

fit, Marble Knives, Ax, and Game 
Getter 143 

No Camp Illumination is More Satisfactory 
than the little Prest-0-Lite Tank Outfit 

near Centre of Picture 153 

12 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

Page 

1. Cree Tent Wood Stove and Refrigerator 

Basket Keep Baby Happy 163 

2. Inside Burch Tourist Auto Tent Cozy 

as at Home 163 

1. The Kampkar in Public Camp Grounds. 173 

2. Kamprite Trailer 173 

3. The Adams Motorbungalo 173 

4. Livabout Camping Car 173 

5. Kitchenette Opened on Motorbungalo . . 173 

1. Wild Deer Snapped from Automobile. . 195 

2. Camera Record of Autocamper's Trout 

Fishing 195 

1. The Autocamper is Some Fisherman. . . 213 

2. Camping Trailer to Carry Game Home 213 

3. For Protection and Hunting Use a Game 

Getter ^ 213 

4. Prest-0-Lite Cooking Outfit in Game 

Fields 213 

5. Duck Hunting with the Kampkar 213 

6. Autocamping in Deer Country 213 

The Loxtite Luggage Carrier Carries Any- 
thing from a Trunk to Golf Bags and 
Does Not Mar the Car 228 

1. On the Montana Route of National 

Parks Road 245 

2. Overland Park, Denver, Colorado . . . 245 

3. Southern California Public Camp 

Ground 245 

4. Public Camping Park, Spokane, Wash- 

ington 245 

13 



AUTOCAMPING 



Chapter I 
Autocamping Independence 

THERE is a lure in autocamping that out- 
lures almost every other call of the red 
gods and yearly seizes upon more and more 
of our American families and outdoorsmen, 
inviting them to an adventure in independence. 
For, after all, the fascination and growing 
popularity of autocamping harks back over the 
generations and ages to an inborn urge that 
breaks us away from cult and convention, from 
aping etiquette and artificial antics, from traffic 
cops and the tedium of supercivilized toil, and 
rushes us for a vacation into the realm of free- 
dom, liberty, independence — into the elbow-room 
of the out-of-doors. 

Autocamping is not a transient pastime or a 
by-product of the world war, but a vacational 
institution that has come to stay, an out- 
growth of natural forces. Nor is autocamping 
a mere game, pastime, or frolic, and most 
certainly it is not a luxury. It is a free and 
independent state of relaxing weary muscles, of 
restoring nerve energy, of charging the storage 
battery of bodily energy, of cutting the cobwebs 
mentally, and of clearing the fog spiritually. 
15 



AUTOCAMPING 

Autocamping is a product of modern civilization, 
an institution necessary for the pursuit of health 
and happiness. 

Two forces, one positive and the other neg- 
ative, have united to create this modern free 
and independent state of autocamping, just as 
all permanent and worthwhile innovations have 
been ushered into the drama of human progress. 

Among the positive forces that have brought 
on the widespread exodus of autocamping may 
be mentioned our typical, inherent American 
love of things primeval. We all like to turn the 
hands of the clock of time back to "those good 
old days," to "those days of real sport," and we 
love to do as grand-dad did. We love the hardy 
traits and the depth of character and the simple 
life, because coursing through our arteries is the 
blood of the pioneer. We all are unconscious 
gypsies. We are victims of the wanderlust. 
And the advent of the mighty automotive 
industry has put at our disposal the gasoline 
caravan, the land yacht, the automobile. 

Not to be forgotten are some of the negative 
causes of this new era of autocamping, which 
contradicted the natural direction of civilization 
wave movements, by coming from the West to 
the East; and there is something in these 
negative causes of motor camping that smells of 
the air of '76. Indeed, autocamping is a free and 
independent state formed on the fundamental 
principle that all men are created equal and 
that they should enjoy the Gifts of Nature un- 
restricted in the bounds of reason. Auto- 
camping is a protest against "taxation without 
16 



I 



AUTOCAMPING INDEPENDENCE 

representation" and sundry evils. Haughty 
Pullman cars and stifling coaches, gouging 
hotels and insolent waiters, excessive railroad 
taxes and overbearing baggagemen, commer- 
cialized vacation places, monoply of the exceed- 
ingly rich over the best spots, millions of 
guarded orders *'No Trespassing Under Penalty 
of the Law," these are just a few of the evils that 
have given us motor camping. 

Apparently many of the older forms of out- 
door vacationing in God's Big Outdoors are 
denied forever. In most states real big game 
shooting must be done with a camera and the 
quarry is pretty likely to stand behind the high 
tension wire of a park fence. Moose have 
vanished from all New York and New England 
with the exception of Maine. Even Canada, 
with all her supposed abundance of wild game, 
permits, in many provinces, just two little weeks 
of moose or deer hunting in a season. Elk and 
buffalo that dotted the Ohio valley are gone 
forever. The wild pigeon that clouded the sky 
is extinct, along with the lust to kill that 
slaughtered it. Even the grizzly has been 
hunted to death in a big section of his habitat, 
and the black bear in half of his. The deer, 
holding its own better than any other wild 
game in the "big game" class, is now hunted 
over shorter and shorter seasons or legal bar- 
riers put up to protect entirely. Settlement of 
the western game countries has been so thorough 
that the ranges of winter migrant game are 
largely barbed-wired and the elk, mountain 
sheep, antelope, and the others must starve or 
2 17 



AUTOCAMPING 

feed at the haystacks on the ranches. Streams 
that were infested with game fish in our grand- 
father's day, so that fish was often the staple 
and most abundant food on the table, are now 
dried to summer aridity because of deforestation, 
or else the remaining pools are completely de- 
nuded. 

This is not blue-law talk, nor can we forget 
the wonderful work of conservation commissions 
and the restocking of sports mens' organizations, 
which in time may bring back the game and 
fish to a certain degree. But the fact remains 
that often our best hunting grounds, and many 
times the very streams that state laws and state 
moneyed commissions have restocked, are 
promptly monopolized by the overly rich. 
The Catskill Mountains are pitiable memorials 
to this wholesale practice, and other sections 
suffer likewise. The banks of whole miles of 
trout streams and the shores of millions of 
watered lake acres teeming with fishes, as well as 
virgin and cut-over timbered areas, are shut up 
by the *'Thou Shalt Not Pass" sign of the man 
who owns the land but can never be the owner 
of the wild life in stream and forest, although he 
can keep the whole world away from appro- 
priating it. Naturally this condition is far 
worse in the East than in the West, but some 
day hardly any section may be exempt, except 
what is preserved in state and National Parks. 

There is only one place to spend your vaca- 
tion now. This one place, thank God, no one 
multimillionaire can monopolize. This one 
place is the Highway. 

18 



AUTOCAMPING INDEPENDENCE 

The autocamper and his family may go where 
they choose, may stop where and when they like, 
may ask odds of no man, because they are on 
the wide domain of the free and independent 
state of autocamping — the Roadside. You may 
be denied actual hiking over the hills and 
splashing in the streams, but they can't push 
you off that wide belt of highway running into 
every nook and corner of the country, and so 
you may camp and enjoy and exhilarate just 
about anywhere that fancy dictates. 

Autocamping is something akin to Middle 
Age Feudalism, but with modern improve- 
ments. The feudal lord lived in his castle home, 
and on the manor about were produced ab- 
solutely everything that was necessary for his 
needs and his comforts. His willing serfs fled 
eagerly to the protection offered to them on the 
manor and cultivated the crops or did the tasks 
necessary to make the feudal fields free and in- 
dependent of the rest of the world. There was 
the cobbler, the miller, the blacksmith, the 
priest, the jester or troubadour; there were the 
spinners and weavers, the soldiers and police- 
men, and the skilled helpers of all kinds. The 
feudal manor was a little world in itself. 

Autocamping is just like that. The car or the 
trailer is INI'Lord Autocamper 's castle. Hun- 
dreds of helpers supply him with necessities; 
from tents, and beds, aad refrigerator baskets, 
and batteryless flash lamps to even touring 
phonographs, and fishing tackle, and hunting 
equipment, and the hundreds of other things that 
will aid in the pursuit of life in the outdoors, 
19 



AUTOCAMPING 

liberty along the highway, and the following of 
healthful happiness. These are the willing serv- 
ing men of M'Lord Autocamper. And the 
whole wide world is his manor! The auto- 
camper, equipped properly, is a petty feudal 
monarch in a horizon that is all his own. On his 
rubber-shod castle grounds, with all the lareti 
et penates of his home hearth carried with him, 
he may set up roadside housekeeping anywhere 
on God's green footstool, free and independent 
of the whole wide world. 

Be it a week-end trip, or a whole week's outing, 
or a full month on the road, or five complete 
months of roadside living, all of which adventures 
the author and his complete family have en- 
joyed, down to six-months '-old Miss Gloria Bess 
— ^the thrill of autocamping is the same. 

In the first place it must be understood that 
autocamping is far from "roughing it" in the 
open. In late spring, summer, and early fall, 
and indeed in less moderate weather, the whole 
family may live in a roadside apartment as 
cozily and comfortably as at home. There are 
dozens of snug tents, many of them made solely 
and purposely for autocamping; there are beds 
that are fully as comfortable and even more 
sleepable than your bedstead at home, and 
indeed I know several campers who have found 
the air bed so sensible and comfortable that they 
have gone to using them at home the year 
round; and then there are stoves of all kinds, 
and s^ stems of camp illumination, and folding 
furniture outfits, and clever devices for keeping 
perishable foods and drinks ice cold in sand 
20 



AUTOCAMPING INDEPENDENCE 

desert temperature, and clothing that will make 
your trip comfortable, and a hundred other 
things to help you be real free and independent. 
As years go by it is my personal finding that 
even hunters and explorers, from the highlands 
of the South to the frozen tundras of the North, 
are not roughing it with glee any more than we 
are driving two-cylinder motor cars qow that we 
have better. Indeed modern camping is almost 
*'softing it.'* 

It is not the purpose of this book to be dog- 
matic about equipment and how to autocamp 
efficiently and successfully. It would be foolish 
for the author to do more than blaze trails for 
you to follow. A few years ago, when auto- 
camping was a youngster and cars packed for 
camping, freaks to be gaped at, I asked a 
pioneer motor camper for advice. What he said 
will be my advice to you: *'I can't tell you much 
about autocamping because that would take 
away the elemeat of adventure." 

Autocamping with me is more than a hobby. 
It is my summer vacation and the whole family 
takes it seriously. It is in one, both vocation 
and avocation for vacationing. A great many 
articles of equipment have been personally tested 
and used and naturally more specific information 
can be given upon the intrinsic worth of this 
equipment. However, outfitting is a matter of 
personal judgement and the autocamper must 
consider his own peculiar needs and conditions 
and the idiosyncrasies of the members hi his 
party. That is part of the "personal adventure." 
Many of the articles and equipments will be 
21 



AUTOCAMPING 

mentioned by their trade names and most of 
them will be found pictured in actual use in the 
author's camps, because I trust the truth told 
about any commodity is worth more thaa the 
little free advertising given. Many of the 
articles are new and intricate at first glance to 
the tyro, hence specific descriptions and ac- 
counts of actual performances are simply my 
blazes cut along the autocamper's trail. Natur- 
ally we all sit down carefully and beat our heads 
over catalogues of outdoor equipment, and we 
believe we select the best for the purpose. And 
the needs of the autocamper in every climate and 
clime for various personal considerations are 
unlike and vast. Hence the problem of out- 
fitting eflficiently is one in calculus and is part of 
the joy of camping. Every trip we learn some- 
thing and discard some fool thing we have been 
persisting in doing. But it is easy to advise on 
absolute necessities and give general instructions 
and helpful advice. This the author fearlessly 
sets out to do. 

The most fastidious autocamping outfit pays 
for itself. Indeed the laws of economics have 
driven most of us autocam])ing. A few years 
ago, when we vacationed by steam train, or 
later when we motored from hotel to hotel along 
the appointed highway, running on almost train- 
like schedule in order that we might go all 
through the orgy of unpacking wrinkled clothing 
and getting through the toilet in time for dinner, 
the cost of a family trip was fifteen dollars and 
up per day : mostly up. Autocamping saves us at 
least ten or twelve dollars a day. The outfit not 
22 



AUTOCAMPING INDEPENDENCE 

only has paid for itself in one season but comes 
up smiling each season to repay compound prin- 
cipal to us. The health consideration, contrasted 
with much-breathed train air and mingling in 
strange hotel lobbies with others, puts auto- 
camping for vacation purposes, with its nights 
and days in the open air, far ahead of any other 
form of land travel. 

A few years ago we heard the scoff of disdain 
heaped upon autocamping as the pastime of the 
man of small means, but today as many are 
Pierce-Arrowing as Fording our highways and 
hobnobbing our roadsides. And there is a 
great free masonry and democratic fraternity in 
autocamping. There you meet men and women 
just as the Creator made them, not as man- 
made conventional veneer has re-made them. 
From the Tin Can Tourist to the Travel Club of 
America member with his system of auto- 
camping accident insurance, there is the true 
American heart in the breast of the motor 
camper. 



23 



Chapter II 
Your Roadside Home, the Tent 

IN NINE cases out of ten, when not planning 
to autocamp with a trailer, the very first 
adventure is deciding upon a tent. This 
chapter might well be divided into two parts: 
one dealing with the many good tents not 
primarily made for autocamping but that may 
be converted to the new faith, the other part 
dealing with the true autotent. Other chapters 
will be devoted to the tent-bed combination and 
to the trailer. 

A great favorite among campers of all classes 
in the past has been canvas, or cotton duck, 
generally water-proofed, at least the roof. There 
is growing into popular favor for motorcamping 
a material much lighter than canvas, known as 
balloon silk. While this is a misnomer, since it 
is not silk but a closely woven fabric subjected to 
a most exacting wet-proofing, still none of the 
virtue is taken away by the fact that not a 
thread of silk comes near its fabrication. There 
are lil^wise other excellent patent tenting 
materials, such as airplane cloth and silkette. 
Each kind of tent cloth has its special merits. 
Canvas is the old stand-by, being strong and 
substantial; but where light weight is the prime 
essential, then balloon silk, or some other patent 

24 



YOUR ROADSIDE HOME, THE TENT 

tenting well built to beat the law of gravity, is 
more popular. 

Canvas itself comes in various weights and 
textures, ranging in weight from the light 8- 
ounce, on up to 10- and 12-ounce material — the 
weight most frequently used in autotents — and 
may be had in almost any weight. Subjected to 
a successful wet-proofing process, the 8- or 10- 
ounce material makes the lightest possible 
canvas tent that is at the same time secure in 
damp weather. Canvas, frequently called 
cotton duck, is really woven with several degrees 
of filling also, there being single fill, double, 
triple, quadruple, and so on. No matter what 
the weight of the material, your canvas should 
be double filled at least. Likely the double fill 
is the most successful and popular of all. The 
very best canvas tenting is the double fill army 
duck. 

Ordinary tent canvas comes in 29-inch width, 
but sometimes 36-inch material will be offered 
the tourist. One should remember that the 
wider material is about a third lighter than the 
regular width when a yard length of each is 
listed to weigh 8 ounces or 10 ounces, as the case 
may be. That is, a tent of 10-ounce duck 
made from 36-inch material will be thinner and 
lighter than a tent of 10-ounce canvas made from 
regular 29-inch duck. Hence you should make 
sure that the tent offered you is 29-inch, else 
the greater width will really put a tent into 
your hands that is a third to a quarter less 
efficient than what you thought you were 
buying. 

25 



AUTOCAMPING 

You can tell plain cotton duck from the wet- 
proofed duck of any weight or quality by a 
simple test. The plain duck will wet through 
when the underside of a tent roof is touched 
with the finger while rain is falling because of 
capillary attraction, and once started this leak 
will keep on letting water into your tent as long 
as rain falls. With water-proofed canvas you 
may poke your finger against the roof all you 
please and it will not start leaking. 

Some tent makers maintain that you cannot 
successfully dye canvas and water-proof it at 
the same time; while others as stoutly claim 
that this very feat is easily possible. Certain it 
is that of late years a great many colored cotton 
duck tents have come upon the market and 
apparently give excellent service. Likely a 
majority of canvas tents today are white, 
however they show soil so easily and make your 
camp so conspicuous to the eye that other colors 
are sure to become more popular. Practically 
all tenting material, from canvas to balloon 
silk, may be had in forest green, leaf brown or 
khaki, or white. 

Water-proofing of tent material is done in 
many ways by experts, but a poor cloth cannot 
be made into a good tent simply by expert wet- 
proofing. You must start with the best grade of 
cloth and then treat it correctly. Sometimes the 
tenting is cravenetted before being woven into the 
cloth, again it may be filled, after it has been 
woven, with wax or paraffin either surrounding 
the fibres or ironed to completely fill the in- 
terstices between the fibres. Another process 
26 



YOUR ROADSIDE HOME, THE TENT 

treats the fibres with wax and weaves them with 
the spaces between left open, not sufficient room 
remaining to permit a rain drop to enter. 
Another is accomplished by using a cupro- 
ammonium solution and then lightly waxing 
the cloth. It is not necessary by any means for 
the autocamper to know and recognize the 
details of tent cloth water-proofing, but a 
general knowledge and reliance on a reliable 
manufacturer are important. 

The most simple tent that can be utilized for 
autocamping is of the lean-to type, which is 
rarely more than a sheet of tenting material 
attached along the top of the car for its ridge, 
the lower edge staked away from the car a few 
feet. A pair of ponchos or a tarpaulin may be 
made to serve in this manner. For warm 
weather, short trips, and insectless country the 
simple lean-to without end walls may serve very 
well; but it is not a practical shelter by any 
means for real motorcamping. The lean-to 
tents with the triangular end walls are much 
better than the mere roof of the lean-to made 
by a square of canvas. 

The lean-to shelter makes a fine emergency 
covering for preparing the noon meal and fre- 
quently the author has stopped beside a fence, 
or in a field, and used a pair of ponchos but- 
toned together to make an emergency tent under 
which to prepare the dinner in rainy weather. 
A poncho from car top to the posts of a fence 
5 or 6 feet away has frequently made a better 
place to use our gasoline or acetylene gas stove 
for getting the hot meal than the simple lean-to 
27 



AUTOCAMPING 

arrangement, because there is more head room. 
It is not always easy to find the fence that will 
cooperate with your car in supporting the roof 
of this emergency tent. 

There is a type of lean-to tent with end walls 
and a fly that makes a fine autotent. This is the 
Burch Shelter Tent and the fly will extend over 
your car top, or may be supported by two poles 
independently of the automobile. There is no 
front to this Shelter tent, which, si ace it comes 
against the side of your auto anyhow, hardly 
needs one. It may be had in 10 different sizes 
to fit your size car body, ranging from 7x7 to 
10x16 feet floor space, the height of the ridge 
in all cases being 7 feet. It may be had in 8-, 
10-, or 12-ouace army duck water-proofed and 
is the most simple and efficient tent that may 
be used for autocamping, lacking only head 
room. 

The tarpaulin tent, 10x12 feet, may be erected 
beside your car, but independently of it, in the 
form of a pyramid, with floor space 7x7 and 
plenty of head room. The tarp may be used 
also as a lean-to attached to your automobile 
for an emergency shelter, or may be utilized to 
cover over duffle packed in the tonneau when 
touring. The tarpaulin will always be a favorite 
with many because of its versatility. The 
Burch Pueblo Tarp tent has long been used by 
the cowboy for a bed sheet as well as a tent 
shelter, and if you prefer this style of tent there 
is no better for autocamping. It may be had 
in 10- or 12-ounce duck, as well as Duplex 
storm-proof cloth and Sportsman's tent cloth. 
28 



YOUR ROADSIDE HOME, THE TENT 



I^t best. the tarp tent will accommodate only 
(two. The Burch Herder, Miner, Stockman, and 
i'ound or Sibley tents are all of the general 
tarpaulin tent construction and come in various 
sizes. The Sibley or round tent, and the Herder 
and Miner tents, may all be had with walls or 
without walls as desired. 

There are various A-shape, or wedge-shape, 
tents that may be put into autocamping service. 
The well-known Boy Scout tent, especially the 
New York State model, is excellent. The 
regular size is 5x7 by 4 feet high, and for motor- 
camping one should select the scout master's 
size, which is 2 3^2 feet higher. Both sizes of 
scout tents may be had with sewed-in floors. 

The Burch A-tents or Hunters tents range 
from 5x7 with 6-foot ridges to 10x12 with 1}^- 
foot ridges. The Hunters Tent may be had with 
or without a wall, that is, it may be ordered in 
true A-shape or in wall shape. The weight 
varies, 8- to 14-ounce duck. The Compac tent 
is a form of A-shape of peculiar style and 
comes in balloon silk with sewed-in floor, the 
roof sloping two-ways and acting for side walls 
as well. The Burch Artists tent is similar to 
the Compac and comes in canvas. Both are 
rather doubtful for use as first rate autotents. 
They will at best accommodate only two. 

One of the most frequently used tents for all 
kinds of camping is the old wall tent. This is 
popular with many because it is the usual form 
of cloth shelter that most naturally comes to 
mind when a tent is mentioned, and also because 
it follows the general shape of the frame and 
29 



AUTOCAMPING 

gable house, hence is popular when the family 
goes autocamping. There are a great many 
styles of common wall tents in all kinds of 
weights and materials, hence mention only 
seems sufficient. The Burch company does 
build an improved family wall tent with porch 
fly, as well as a hip-roof wall tent, and various 
other unique styles, several of which have 
canvas partitions inside and make veritable tent 
homes for the whole family. One of them has 
three bedrooms 7x7 feet, a kitchen of the same 
dimensions, and a living room 10x14 feet. Such 
a tent would be too heavy and bulky for short 
camps, but would be ideal for long stops in 
municipal autocamping parks or elsewhere. 
The wall tents may be had from baby size to 
giants, with or without floors, with or without 
flies, and in any color desired. 

A style of wall tent most popular with auto- 
campers is the Wenzel poleless tent. This is 
because it does not require carting along ridge 
poles, common to the wall tent. On the Wenzel 
tent a rope runs from the ridge to the adjustable 
lever on the top of each upright and is readily 
adjusted to draw up tightly the flexible ridge 
of the tent. 

Sometimes the wall tent is split in half, length- 
wise along the ridge, and thus forms a fine 
autotent. Of this type the Amazon is most 
worthwhile, since it has a porch fly that may be 
extended over the car. Likewise it has a front 
wall and may be used independently of your 
auto by supporting the fly with two poles. 
Frequently two Amazon, or any style of half- 
30 



YOUR ROADSIDE HOME, THE TENT 

wall, tents are used in motorcamping, one tent 
on each side. There are nine sizes of the Amazon 
tent, from 7x10 to 10x20, all with 3-foot rear 
walls and the front ridges ranging from 7 to 8 
feet high. They may be had in 8-, 10-, or 12- 
ounce canvas. 

The Baker tent might be used, as the Amazon 
is, attached to your car, but it has no front wall 
and is something of the shape of a shed with 
porch extension or fly. The Baker may be 
pitched independently of the automobile, using 
three poles in the form of a tripod, one leg 
forming the ridge and the others holding the 
front. Jointed poles outside give more room 
inside this style of tent and it is by all means a 
most simple affair to pitch. It has a sewed-in 
floor and a screened window. The Baker Trail 
Tents come in five sizes. 

There are several other tents that might be 
considered possible for autocamping. The 
Foresters Tent, designed by the dean of tenters, 
Warren Miller, especially for use on the beach, 
might serve for an ideal motor tent in sand- 
storm desert country. The Indian tepee also 
might be used for autocamping. There are 
various tents, screened or lined with Bobbinet 
to make them insect-proof, which are also worth 
consideration for special excursions into mos- 
quito country. Even the old Cruisers Tent 
might be made to serve the autocamper very 
well. 

Now let us consider the true autotent. 

This is a style of tent recently manufactured 
purely to accommodate autocampers with the 
31 



AUTOCAMPING 

greatest amount of room and comfort and at the 
same time prove convenient to carry. The best 
kind of autotent should give all the head and 
floor room possible, and the most satisfactory 
provide the same amount of head and floor room. 
Some will cooperate with your car or not as you 
choose. There should be at least one screened 
window for ventilation and the autotent should 
be a real "one man" affair, that is, permit 
pitching by a single individual. Whether or 
not there should be a floor in the ideal autotent 
is a question, and personally the author does 
not favor it unless it is used only in that part of 
the tent which will be slept in. Walking about 
on the canvas floor, building a fire in your tent 
stove on it, and otherwise mutilating it will 
prove disappointing, and you are merely taking 
more weight than necessary. The sleeping tent 
with sewed-in floor and screened windows may 
be made absolutely insect-proof, and a floor is 
recommended. 

After trying various styles of autotents my 
family have been very happy to discover and 
use the Burch Tourist Auto Tent. At first 
glance the shape and appearance of this tent 
will seem peculiar. This is because the roof 
slopes both ways, that is, from front to rear and 
at the same time from ridge to eaves. This 
makes the water shed off in two ways, rendering 
it as efficient in this respect as a tent with a 
much steeper pitch of the roof. Also, since it 
has this peculiar double-pitched roof, there is 
head room everywhere in it, a unique feature 
and a happy one when you come to live in a 
32 




1 The Gypsy Autotent 3 A pair of Amazon Motor Tents 

2 The Way-Side Outing Outfit 4 The Burch Tourist Auto Tent 
« 33 



AUTOCAMPING 

tent by the month. Furthermore, the Tourist 
Auto Tent is a true *'one man" affair, easily 
pitched by one person in five minutes, and it is 
most compact when rolled for carrying. Its 
tent poles unjoint, and they have carried under 
the rear seat of our car for weeks at a time. 

The No. 1 Tourist Auto Tent is 8^x10 and 
weighs 32 pounds. The ridge at the front — 
what might be called the peak — is 8 feet high, 
and the rear peak is 6 feet. There is a large 
extension porch fly that may be thrown over 
the car top or stretched for a porch on two poles. 
The No. 2 size Tourist Auto Tent is for large- 
sized cars, being 8x13 feet, weighing 41 pounds, 
and being the same in height as the No. 1. Both 
sizes may be had with or without floors. This 
tent is made from a light double fill, finely 
woven army duck well water-proofed. 

While the actual floor space inside the Tourist 
Auto Tent we have used is 83^x10 feet on the 
car we have driven, the family has enjoyed a 
roadside home considerably larger than this 
with the porch fly drawn over the car top and 
the front walls of the tent swung out. These 
front curtains of the tent are fitted with snaps 
that attach to rings along the edges of the fly 
and with tapes that tie to your car, front and 
rear. With the outer side curtains on the car, 
and the front of the tent swung out and sna} .ped 
to the fly on both sides, you have a room that is 
about double the actual floor space of the tent, 
and it is all head room, excepting the car room 
itself. Inside this tent we have found plenty of 
room for two double beds, a tent stove, chairs, 
34 



YOUR ROADSIDE HOME, THE TENT 

table, and the necessary things to make it 
Camp Home. There is a screened and curtained 
window at the rear and a wall pocket with 
flaps each side of the window in which toilet 
articles are carried, and left safely there when 
the tent is taken down and rolled up. 

The first operation in pitching the Tourist 
Auto Tent is to throw the fly over the car top 
and attach the three ropes at the outer edge of 
the fly to the top braces of your auto. Then 
set in the peak pole and put out the two front 
guys. Next loosely guy the rear ridge rope and 
then set in the rear pole. After which the four 
corner poles are set into place and the guy ropes 
pulled taut. Your car may be set closely 
against the front of this tent, and then the 
extension fly will cover the open side of your 
auto. We prefer to put on the side curtains and 
pitch the tent as far from the car as possible, 
thus giving much more room — an important 
consideration. The door of the Burch tent is at 
the side, hence one does not need to unbuckle 
the curtains attached to the automobile to get in 
and out. The space under the running board is 
all that remains open, when the tent is pitched 
and the curtains are on the car, and this space 
will be found open on any tent when the front 
wall is thrown apart. To keep out the draft of 
night air we use blankets or ponchos hung over 
the wheels and on the running board, and held 
in place by articles of equipment set against 
them. In this tent so arranged you are as cozy 
as in a cottage. 

The Metropolitan Utility Autotent is an 

35 



AUTOCAMPING 

excellent cloth home for the roadside hobo and 
his family. It is a tent that has unique ex- 
tending eaves, sewed-in floor cloth, opens the 
entire length, and can be erected with or without 
poles, or may be set up independently of your 
car and form a sort of garage in and out of which 
your car may be driven. The windows of this 
tent are screened, curtained, and fasten with 
indestructible fasteners. The cloth from which 
this tent is made is a very closely woven material 
in dead-grass color, all wearing parts reenforced 
and double-stitched seams throughout make it 
very durable. The jointed tent poles are made 
of pine. Steel pins come with the outfit. The 
floor space of the Utility Tent is 7x8j/2 feet, 
height at front is 7}^, and at rear 2J^ feet. 
The weight is 26 pounds. 

The Marquee Autotent is of the semi-pyramid 
shape with a center pole, and a flap extending 
to the top of the car. The tent is 8x8 feet on the 
ground and 8}/^ feet high. There is a window 
at the rear and a detachable door with a window 
in front. When detached the door may be 
hung along the flap between the car and tent 
on one side. The Compac Auto Hobo tent is 
very similar. 

The Stoll Perfection Tourist Tent is 8x9 feet 
with a flap that attaches to the top of the car, or 
it may be erected independently. It somewhat 
resembles the Marquee and the Compac, boast- 
ing only one pointed pole and accommodating 
four people. The front is not detachable. It 
has two screened windows and a sod cloth, not 
a floor. It weighs 28 pounds. 




L. 



1 The Schilling Autotent 2 The Brooks Umbrella Tent 

3 The Des Moines Tour Tent 
37 



AUTOCAMPING 

Another autotent of the truncated cone type 
is the Brooks Square Umbrella autocamping 
shelter. This is made in three sizes with plenty 
of head room, floor space, and an awning stretch- 
ing to the automobile top, or to poles inde- 
pendently of the car. It has a center pole and 
boasts of no guys. The Brooks tent is made 
from 10-ounce duck, folds very compactly, and 
has a unique door. 

The Weikert Auto Tent is of the wall variety 
covering the car with its awning or fly. It may 
be had in various sizes and used independently 
of your auto if you like. 

The A. B. C. balloon silk autotent, not to be 
confused with the tent-bed combinations feat- 
ured by this company and considered in another 
chapter, is a fine autotent with sewed-in floor, 
water-proof and bug-proof. The small-size 
A. B. C. autotent weighs but 153^2 pounds, being 
5x7 feet, and of the half-wall tent type, or shed 
type. The next size is 7x7 and weighs 18 pounds, 
while the largest is 7x10 feet and weighs but 22 
pounds. The two smaller sizes of this A. B. C. 
Casey autotent have one room each, while the 
larger size boasts two rooms. The 7-foot 
dimension of the Casey tent is in each case the 
distance of the rear wall from your auto. No 
poles are required with this tent and it rolls most 
compactly into a bundle but % feet long and a 
few inches in diameter. 

The Field Autokamp Tent is of the half -wall 
type, equipped with two rooms, and having the 
fly over the top of the automobile. It is made 
from 8-ounce duck, double fill and water- 



YOUR ROADSIDE HOME, THE TENT 

proofed. This tent will accommodate four 
people. 

The Des Moines Tour-Tent is a half-wall tent 
that entirely covers the top of your car and the 
front and rear, so that one passing on the out- 
side might not believe that he was near an 
automobile. The Burch Ideal Camping Tent 
covers the whole car also and in this respect the 
two are similar. This feature will be appre- 
ciated by many who sleep in the tonneau car 
beds, as it affords protection for your automobile 
as well as your camping outfit, for everything is 
safely stowed in the car and protected from rain. 
The Burch Slip-On Covers may be used to 
make almost any autotent completely cover the 
car. Personally there seems little use to me in 
housing the car in a tent garage. But I have 
autocamping friends who maintain they will not 
camp unless they can take the car right into 
camp with them. 

A tent with a steel frame, folding to 5 feet 
3 inches by 10 inches, weighing 60 pounds, 
with two rooms — one 7x7 and the other 5x7 
feet — and that is most unique in shape is the 
Gypsy autotent. The main room is a high wall 
tent with peak roof, and the sleeping room is a 
shed leaning against one side of the living room. 
The frame is seamless bicycle tubing, all joints 
being aluminum. There are four guy ropes. 
As many as four sleeping rooms might be placed 
about the central living room on the Gypsy ar- 
rangement and the steel frame holds the canvas 
tightly everywhere. There is 6-foot head room 
in the main room. 



AUTOCAMPING 

The Boston Automobile Tent follows the 
usual shed style with fly over car, requiring no 
tent poles, having two roll-up doors, curtained 
and screened windows, and water-proof floor 
cloth. There are two sizes offered : one with base 
7 feet square, back wall 3 feet, and front 7 feet, 
while the other offers a base 7x9 >^ feet, with 
other dimensions the same. 

A very similar tent is the Moto-Tent, with 
khaki-colored roof and white sidewalls, the roof 
of 8-ounce duck, water-proofed with the well- 
known Preservo. This tent is also offered in 
two sizes, one with base 7 feet square, and the 
other 7x10 feet. It rolls to a bundle about 
10x24 inches and the weight is about 25 pounds. 

The Carpenter Auto Tent is also a shed type 
with fly, which may be set up independently of 
the car if desired. It is of khaki-colored duck, 
and has folding poles and pins. There is a floor 
cloth and the doors and windows are screened. 
Two sizes are offered: one 7 feet square on the 
ground, and the other 7x9 feet. Packed, this 
tent is about 12x48 inches and weighs 30 
pounds. 

Still another similar autotent is the Badger, 
ground size 82 inches square, 76 inches high at 
front, and 3 feet at back. The fly, which throws 
over the car top, is 7x8 feet, and large enough 
to cover the opposite side of the automobile. 
The tent is of army duck, with sewed-in floor 
cloth of water-proof twill. Olive drab is the 
color. This tent folds to 11x30 inches, and 
weighs 22 pounds. 

The Chittim Autotent is a gable-roofed affair, 
40 



[ 



YOUR ROADSIDE HOME, THE TENT 

appearing something like a wall tent without 
obvious support, which is afforded by a rather 
rigid framework. Within this frame two beds 
are supported, one above the other. The whole 
outfit folds compactly enough to ride readily 
on your running board. 

The Auto Hobo Tent is in the square um- 
brella shape with awning to stretch over car or 
attach to two poles to form a sort of canvas 
portico. This tent comes in three sizes and is 
made of Mode Waterproof material. The 
8-foot center pole is hinged to form a folded 
length of only 32 inches. This tent rolls to 

7 by 32 inches in the smallest size. The sizes 
viffered are 7-foot-square base, 10-foot-square, 
or 12-foot-square. 

The Way-Side Tents follow the design of the 
regular Amazon. A unique feature of this make 
of tent is that each autocamper may specify 
exactly his wishes about ventilators, floor 
cloths, curtains, and extra poles. He selects his 
Ideal Way-Side Tent, for instance, and tells the 
maker where he wishes windows, and the details 
of construction. The base model tent is 6 feet 

8 inches wide by 8 feet long, the front height 
being 6 feet 6 inches, while the rear is 2 feet 

6 inches. The weight is 20 pounds. 

The Outodoor Touring Tent is a shed type 

7 feet square, with heavy floor cloth, two 
screened and curtained windows, and awning. 
The Outodoor Portable Cottage, while not a 
true autotent, still is used when more or less 
permanent camps will be established. It is a 
screened canvas summer cottage supported by a 

41 



AUTOCAMPING 

light frame. The Close-To-Nature Portable 
Cottages are very similar, as are several others. 

The Rietschel Touring Outfits are really 
portable canvas cottages especially built for the 
autocamper. Although weighing 150 pounds, 
the canvas cottage packs to surprisingly small 
space so that it may be carried on the running 
board. The floor space is 6 feet 8 inches by 9 
feet, and this outfit of course sets up inde- 
pendently of the car. The carrying cabinet 
becomes a camp table 36x55 inches. A bed for 
two and benches for six people attach to the 
frame, although the table and benches give way 
to another bed if desired. Packed in its running 
board cabinet this outfit is 55 inches long, 21 
inches high, and 10 inches wide. 

There are undoubtedly other excellent auto- 
tents, which space prohibits describing, but the 
variations in details of those set forth in this 
chapter ought to give the reader a fair idea of 
tent possibilities. Let it here be said em- 
phatically that great care should be exercised in 
selecting the right tent. It is safe to estimate 
nine out of ten tents as unfit for real protection 
when you are caught in a heavy downpour of 
rain. In the end the best is by far the "cheapest" 
and the safest. This point cannot be made too 
emphatic. 

The autocamper must remember that tents 
should be selected for personal requirements. 
This takes into consideration many things; 
numbers in party, ages, sexes, families or mixed 
individuals, length of trip, locality, climate, 
season of year, purpose of trip, previous ex- 
42 



YOUR ROADSIDE HOME, THE TENT 

perience in camping or autocamping, the 
equipment that will be used with the tent home, 
and a hundred and one elements of the personal 
equation that cannot be decided offhand. One 
thing is sure, there is no all-round tent that 
will accommodate every party and suit every 
condition, but some come very near being ideal 
autotents. 

The matter of tent selection is for your best 
judgement and I hope the foregoing will act as a 
suggestive guide. Metal tent pins are the only 
ones worth carrying on long trips, as the hard- 
wood pin soon batters to nothing under the 
blows of your camp ax in setting the pin for 
your guy rope. You can tell a veteran camper as 
far as you can see his tent pins, not only by the 
kind, but more by the slant. The best way to 
set a pin is leaning toward the tent, as it pulls 
out less easily, common opinion to the con- 
trary, than when leaning away from the tent. 
The reason for this is obvious, for the pin 
staked so that it points away from the tent is 
pulled over by the tension of the guy rope in 
wind or rain and so loosened. Remember that 
no rope has ever been made that would not 
shrink when wet and so loosen the guys when 
the floods descend, or else the pulled-out tent 
pins will let your tent sag or partly fall in during 
the night. When unpacking your tent for the 
first time, watch to see how it is folded and 
rolled, as the makers know about this best and 
you will do well to follow the example they set 
for you when you want to roll it back up. 
Sometimes you may travel through country 
43 



AUTOCAMPING 

where poles for your tent may be cut each 
afternoon or when you are making camp, and 
in this case the ones which come with the 
outfit might just as well remain at home and 
thus lighten your load and give that much more 
room to other equipment. There are several 
Toilet Tents made purposely for the auto- 
camper and well worth consideration if no other 
arrangements are convenient. 



44 



Chapter III 
Sleeping in Hades or Elysium, the Bed 

THE crux, the acid test, of the success of 
your autocamping trip will not come 
between the golden hours of sunrise and 
sunset. You will be given your "third degree" 
at night. During the day any little disa- 
greeable details that come up, just as they 
will come up in spite of the best regulated 
families, are quickly merged into the many 
interesting things that come along to any one 
of the five senses on a touring trip through lovely 
country. But at night you are tired, it is dark, 
and if you can't sleep your autocamping ad- 
venture is a miserable failure. Your bed will 
make the night either Hades or Elysium. 

Not long after we were married, the Missus 
wanted to camp the Adirondacks with me and 
go light, which we did most successfully, but I 
shall never forget our first night and the author 
almost ruined his matrimonial partnership, to 
say nothing of that particular outing. We were 
sleeping in blankets on a bed of balsam boughs. 
The first day we tried to go too far, for we 
wanted to reach a certain almost unvisited and 
little known lake five miles from a dirt highway 
seldom frequented. The result was that we 
arrived barely in time to get up our simple lean- 
45 



AUTOCAMPING 

to tent and make a hasty supper when it grew 
dark and stormy. 

Having had little time to find balsam or 
spruce boughs with which to make our bed, we 
tried to sleep on uneven ground that, as soon as 
we ought to have slept, seemed to be a miniature 
of the bad lands of South Dakota. In vain we 
moved and rolled and tried to sleep. Beavers 
cut big trees that fell with startling booms 
into the water; night birds screeched; wildcats 
screamed; deer came thump-thumping like jack 
rabbits to investigate the smell of our woods 
bedroom; porcupines sawed logs where we had 
inadvertently spilled a little salt; it seemed as if 
the black bears were crunching in the berry 
patches where we had seen signs of their wallow- 
ing as we came in. As the hours wore on, our 
nerves became more and more like pricking 
needle points and with our extreme fatigue the 
night was all but that place whither faithful 
Charon ships his passengers. 

This was our bed lesson. And many is the 
night I have thought of that first black Hades, 
as I have built bough beds that were as com- 
fortable as you could desire. Briefly, here is the 
way to make a mattress of evergreen boughs, 
or rather the tip twigs that have no limbs; and 
balsam, spruce, fir, hemlock, pine, and the 
cone-bearing green timber indigenous to the 
country you are in will make most excellent 
material. Nine out of ten woodsmen dump a 
pile of boughs together and call it a bed. This 
is about like taking a basket of food of all kinds, 
dumping it on the table, and calling it a dinner. 
46 



SLEEPING IN HADES 

Others advise cutting logs and making a heavy 
frame that will embrace the heap of boughs, 
thrown on the ground hit-or-miss, and keep them 
from sliding out of place when you lie on them. 
But certainly few campers will want to fell trees 
with which to make a bed on the ground, and it 
is no more called for than an automobile with 
two steering wheels. A thorough woodsman 
"shingles his bough bed." 

That is, he builds up the boughs neatly and 
with care so that they form a mattress of 
several distinct layers of well-woven boughs 
with tips all pointed slightly upward and the 
larger butts of the boughs downward. Because 
it is thus woven and shingled together, this bed 
will stay in place when you pile upon it and, be- 
cause the tips of the boughs are all up, it will lie 
easily, while the down-pointed stems will give 
added resilience and make for even greater 
comfort. 

To shingle a bough bed, begin at one end and 
select each bough from the pile gathered for the 
purpose, putting it individually upon the ground 
in shingle fashion. That is, just as you might 
shingle a roof. Each twig slopes at an approx- 
imate angle of forty-five degrees witli the 
feathery tip uppermost. As soon as the first 
layer is completed, begin at the other end and 
place another layer in the same way. The over- 
lapping bough tips will weave each layer in 
place and the down-pointed butts will pin each 
layer to the one below it. Four, five, or six 
courses will make a most comfortable bed. 
When first completed, with boughs well packed 
47 



AUTOCAMPING 

by the hands as placed, it will be a mattress two 
feet thick, but it will naturally settle as soon as 
the weight of your body comes upon it. The 
size of this mattress will be made according to 
numbers, and when three or four are in the same 
party one large bed so built will be more quickly 
done and a better bough bed than two or three 
small ones for the individual members of the 
party. A good woodsman will build this bed in 
half an hour after his boughs are clipped off the 
trees with a sharp hunting knife. If there are 
two in the party, one cuts boughs while the 
other weaves the bed. The first time you try 
this bed it will take you an hour. 

The bed that the author and his family have 
found best suited for autocamping under almost 
every condition of temperature, spring, summer, 
or fall, and the one that our six-months' babe 
recently decided she liked better than the brass 
crib with delicate springs back home, is the 
Metropolitan air bed. A few years ago the 
mention of an air bed was ipso facto a good joke. 
That was in the day when folks talked about the 
foolishness of putting music in a bottle (slam- 
ming the phonograph), or of messages sent 
without wires, or heavier-than-air flying ma- 
chines. Today the air bed has won its place in 
the front rank of outing equipment in spite of 
early prejudice and stands on its merits as the 
ideal autocamping bed for women, children, or 
the men folks of the party. I know of several 
sophisticated campers who yielded with re- 
luctance to the lure of the air bed on outing 
trips, and are so enthusiastic today that they 
48 




1 McMilliii Auto Jir.l ovrr car -cats 

2 Kenwood Wool Sleeping Ba^s op a Gold Metal Autoaaatic single cot 

3 MetropoKtan Comfort Sleeping Pocket with foot extended under cot 

4 The A. B. C. Car Bed 

« 49 



AUTOCAMPING 

sleep on these same pneumatic air mattresses 
365 days of the year. There is no bed, from 
silk floss to the straw ticks that hark back to the 
days of real sport, that fits the contour of the 
body and rests tired muscles and backs like an 
inflated air mattress, and so many people sleep 
on them every night in their homes. But they 
are just as efficient in your bedroom at Hotel de 
Roadside, be it on a pile of rocks or a grass- 
cushioned turf. 

Among the several various attacks made upon 
the air bed by the "old school" of woodsmen, 
who by the way are rapidly becoming extinct 
and many by the route of conversion, was the 
dogmatic assertion made again and again that it 
was cold business to sleep on air. This I know 
to be as silly as the old notion that the earth was 
flat. Any dead air space is a non-conductor of 
cold, witness your double windows for winter 
warmth, your interstices in the fabric of the 
warmest wool purposely woven to allow air 
spaces of cold-repelling virtue. And so with 
the air bed, you sleep on a dead air space that is 
the best kind of cold repellent to put on the 
ground. I have slept in mine on snowbanks. 

For our family use we have double air beds 
42 inches wide, on which two medium-size people 
can slumber as sweetly as on our double-coiled 
springs at home. The length of these beds is 
75 inches and there is an extension tent-like flap 
at the head that may be held over the sleepers' 
heads to keep aWay dra-fts of air or indeed 
the falling. 4ew if no lent fs used t>Vf?r the beds. 
Each double, air cot has two separate pneumatic 



SLEEPING IN HADES 

mattresses and two air pillows. These are 
covered with heavy wool felt. The whole thing 
is covered with water-proof Tyco and balloon 
silk or duck and this is lined with wool felt. The 
whole "top" comes off this type of bed by 
simply unsnapping the snaps at head and 
sides, or you merely unsnap enough to crawl into 
bed and snap them back up as high as you please. 
The air mattresses taper thinner toward the foot. 
The regular single Metropolitan air cot weighs 
but 10 pounds complete and packs into a roll 
25 inches long by 6 inches in diameter. There is 
a wider single cot two pounds heavier and 30 
inches wide. You may order this bed made any 
width you choose. The duck-covered beds are 
about two pounds heavier than the balloon silk 
and Tyco. 

With each bed there comes a pump for in- 
flating the air mattress, but your mouth will do 
it as well. I can inflate our double air bed in 
five minutes. The trouble with what appears to 
be difficult for many is the fact that when you 
first begin to blow there is so much air space that 
Httle effect is noted and you may think you are 
not filling the bed with air. A mistake of the 
amateur is to put in too much air, and somehow 
it is hard to get away from the notion that it 
must require a big air pressure to really hold 
your body suspended off the ground. It does 
not. Repeatedly when we first used our air 
beds I had to unscrew the valve and let air out 
until the inflation was just right. This is easily 
determined when you get upon the bed prepara- 
tory to sleep. The heaviest individuals will find 
51 



AUTOCAMPING 

that the air beds suspend them in comfort. Use 
nothing but full-length pneumatic beds. 

In the first air beds there was a sHding sensa- 
tion, as if you were skidding sideways when you 
moved on the bed. The unique plan of construc- 
tion of the MetropoHtan has done away with 
this entirely by a system of inner longitudinal 
walls inside the mattresses. You get into an air 
bed and forget where you are in the dark. There 
is nothing strange or peculiar about it. It is the 
ideal autocamper's bed under most varying 
conditions. 

Besides the ''Original'* and Feather- Weight 
air beds, the Metropolitan people make Whall's 
Compact Sleeping Bag, the Justrite Sleeping Bag 
(in Coutil Cloth weighing but 5 pounds), the 
Outing Camp Mattress, and the Brownie Camp 
Pad. This gives a variety from which to select 
exactly the type that fits your need perfectly 
and this concern will readily undertake making 
any special type of air bed to order. There are 
several other makes of air goods, besides the 
Metropolitan, which are excellent in their in- 
dividual merits, the Perfection being a fine 
brand. 

The Kapo Ceibasilk Sleeping Bag greatly re- 
sembles in looks the various sleeping pockets 
having pneumatic mattresses, except that silk- 
floss, or Kapo, is used for the mattress instead 
of an air-filled rubber container. The outside 
covering is made of rubberized cloth. In the 
foot there is a special bag for the feet, also lined 
with Kapo Ceibasilk. 

For warm weather autocamping we have 
52 



I 



SLEEPING IN HADES 

found the double folding Gold Medal cot 
excellent, and the several folding single cots of 
this same brand are so universally well known 
that they hardly need be more than mentioned. 
The double cot is 52 inches wide by 78 inches 
long, and stands 18 inches off the ground. There 
are many folks who sleep more contentedly 
raised up at least a few inches off the earth, and 
for family autocamping the double Gold Medal 
stands without a peer. Its folded compactness 
is marvelous, being but 39 inches long, by 10 
inches wide, by 5 inches thick. We have 
packed this in our small car in place of the foot 
rail or stood it on end almost anywhere. Straps 
secure the folded sticks together neatly and it 
makes a clean bundle which carries in a sack. 
On a recent extended autocamping trip our five- 
year-old daughter, weighing less than 40 pounds, 
slept on this double cot beside an adult who 
weighed 165 pounds. There was absolutely no 
discomfort on the part of either because of this 
disparity of weight. The one thing that may 
be said against the folding double cot of any 
make is that it is a little heavy, around 30 
pounds, but its compact folding features and the 
extreme speed and ease with which it may be 
put up or taken down, counterbalance weight 
that may seem a trifle big, but which is neces- 
sary for a double cot. Remember, too, that the 
single army cot weighs over twenty pounds. All 
things considered the Gold Medal Double- 
Width folding cot is a true accessory to auto- 
camping and its unique folding feature is a 
wonder. 

53 



AUTOCAMPING 

For this double cot you may order a mattress 
of best quality knitted cotton felt, covered with 
heavy white or khaki Government Sanitary 
Drill. This is a soft, light-weight mattress and 
for the double cot tips the scales at 15 pounds. 
With this cot likewise may be ordered a complete 
canopy frame covered with mosquito netting 
attached to the frame of the cot for sleeping in 
insect country in comfort. This equipment 
weighs around 5 pounds and folds into a small 
package, 2 inches by 36 inches. The carrying 
case, if you care for one, must likewise be 
ordered extra. It has a handle and weighs but 
half a pound. 

The Burch Pueblo Auto Bed is a wide cot bed 
with steel frame, but far more comfortable than 
any ''hammock" cot because the tension of its 
canvas mat may be drawn up as tightly as a 
drumhead by a special ratchet device. This is 
one of the most popular autocamping beds be- 
cause it really does not sag, is comfortable, and 
packs well. The bed is 6 feet 6 inches long, 
42 inches wide, and when folded is a roll 42x8 
inches, while the weight is about 35 pounds. 

Besides the tent-bed combinations, which are 
covered in another chapter, there is another 
style of bed that is excellent for the autocamper. 
This is the car bed. We have found the A. B. C. 
Universal Car Bed most satisfactory. It is a 
sagless bed with no special attachments having 
to be made on your car for swinging it over the 
backs of the seat and the steering wheel. This 
car bed is built on the famous sagless tension 
of the Auto Bed Camp principle, the frame 
54, 



I 



SLEEPING IN HADES 

being made from selected hardwood fitted with 
special rust-proof fittings and covered with olive 
drab canvas. The weight is but 11 pounds and 
the folding most compact, being in length just 
the width of your car and a bundle rolled less 
than 5 inches in diameter, which may readily 
be secured to the top of your car, strapped 
to the top frame, out of the way and easily 
carried. 

A special Ford car bed is made by the A. B. C. 
people, although the Universal Car Bed will fit it 
as well as the larger touring cars, even including 
seven-passenger models. The Sleeper, built for 
the Ford car, weighs but 8 pounds. Both beds 
are 84 inches long, and the Universal is 46 inches 
wide, while the Sleeper is somewhat narrower. 
Tension rails are at head and foot. 

Another somewhat similar car bed is the 
Des Moines, but in this type the head and foot 
sticks are supported by legs and the strap ad- 
justment determines the amount of sag, the 
rigidity of the canvas bed not being maintained 
by a tension device. The Genesee bed is of the 
same general character but has a few short 
steel springs inserted in the canvas. In the 
McMillin bed the car seats serve as cushions, the 
canvas resting the weight of your body down 
upon the cushions as a sort of bolstering mat- 
tress. The steel rods used with this bed will not 
fit the very small-size touring car. Another 
tonneau bed is the Spokane. The Red Seal 
Auto Bed is so versatile that it may be used over 
the car seats, or independently, or indeed for a 
porch bed. 

55 



AUTOCAMPING 

The Moto-Bed consists of only three parts, 
and swings over the tops of the seats in any 
touring car. This bed has a wooden frame sup- 
porting a canvas mat that is 6 feet long by 52 
inches wide at back and slightly narrower at 
front. A center rail prevents occupants from 
rolling together, the tension being from side to 
side. In larger cars this car bed fits back of the 
steering wheel, but in smaller automobiles the 
canvas is slit so that the steering wheel extends 
up through, but in such a way that the comfort 
of the sleeper is not disturbed. The carrying 
size is about 3 feet by 7 inches square. 

The Autobed is very similar to the above, and 
its frame is supported by legs extending to the 
bottom of the car underneath. This tonneau 
bed packs to 4 feet long by 5 inches in diameter, 
and it weighs about 25 pounds. 

Any of the car beds are rather better for warm- 
weather than for cool-period sleeping because 
they allow cold to come up from below, like a 
cot bed, requiring as much bed clothing under as 
over the sleeper, and sometimes even more. 
With the side curtains on your car, the car bed 
may serve you for a roadside bedroom without 
any tent, but the lack of a tent will be keenly felt 
at various times, among them rainy days, and 
also the times when you have ridden in the car 
until you are sick and tired of it and want to get 
somewhere else for a change and rest. 

Some autocampers have sawed down and 

hinged the back of the front seat to form a bed in 

conjunction with the rear seat cushion, but 

personally this seems to me a thing that is not 

56 



SLEEPING IN HADES 

only mutilation but unnecessary with all the 
fine car beds on the market. 

Some motorists run their engines early in the 
morning to "warm up" the sleeping apartment 
in which the car bed is enclosed. This seems 
entirely unnecessary, and with my car the run- 
ning motor would not warm it perceptibly on 
a summer morning if I all but raced the engine, 
for my motor does not heat, not enough, at all 
events, to warm the tonneau of my car. 

So far only the foundation of the bed has been 
considered, the part you sleep on. Now let us 
consider what to sleep in. For autocamping the 
Kenwood sleeping bags, in any style, color, or 
weight, will be found more efficient from every 
viewpoint than almost any kind of bed coverings 
or various autocamping blankets. The Ken- 
wood products are made from pure wool and 
wool of only the best quality, the strong, clean, 
long-fiber kind of specially selected quality. 
It is carded, spun, woven, and felted expertly 
into a thick but light-weight fabric that holds 
its shape under all conditions, being readily 
washed without shrinking an iota. It has a 
downy, thick, soft nap on both sides that makes 
its contact with your skin a pleasure. 

In color the regular Kenwood sleeping bag is 
forest green and weighs but 4<}/2 pounds, with 
the length 84 inches, and the circumference 
68 inches. Two other weights of sleeping 
bags are made, one around 6 pounds and the 
other 7 pounds. However, for warmth on chilly 
nights in high altitudes or on snowbanks, two 
or three of the 43/2-pound bags, one inside the 
57 



AUTOCAMPING 

other, are far warmer and more to be recom- 
mended than two of the heavier bags, the air 
space between the lighter bags giving greater 
warmth than the same weight of wool in one or 
even two heavier ones. All sleeping bags may 
be had in grey instead of the regular forest 
green if desired. The top of the bag is equipped 
with special flaps, forming a double thickness of 
wool, that gives the neck and vital organs 
extra protection. The Kenwood people make 
several other wool articles that will be found 
of the highest quality, including Outdoor 
Comfort Stockings, Outdoor Motor Robes, 
Outdoor Comfort Rug (which laces to form a 
bag), Sitting Out Bags, Comfort Sleeping 
Blankets, crib and infant's coverings. 

The Kenwood bags with rain-proof covers of 
canvas and special generous fly at the head may 
be used for sleeping in, without a tent over 
them, along the roadside. The canvas cover is 
cut and sewed along the lines of the sleeping 
bag and the water-proof fly may be secured over 
the head and shoulders in the form of an A-shape 
open-end tent, held so with stakes, and one or 
more bags nested, or telescoped together inside 
the rain-proof cover make a very light-weight 
and efficient bed for the autocamper. The 
water-proof canvas cover for the bag weighs 
5]/2 pounds, making the total weight of bag and 
cover just 10 pounds. 

There are several other makes of sleeping bags 
on the market that have their own individual 
characteristics. The Downisilk, which is a 
comforter sewed into bag form, the covering 

58 



SLEEPING IN HADES 

being soft mercerized khaki. The Filson 
sleeping bag is another. There is no better 
blanket than a genuine army O. D. wool cover, 
if you prefer blankets to bags, but be sure you 
get a genuine army khaki of the best quality, as 
there are several substitutes parading. The 
bag, once you have made its intimate ac- 
quaintance, will be found a great deal superior 
to any blanket because it keeps you covered 
everywhere all the time and the same weight 
bag is far warmer in practical use than the same 
weight blanket. 

For the autocamper who desires the sleeping 
roadside apartment de luxe, the author and his 
family have found something worth consider- 
ation, which is the use of the Comfort Sleep- 
ing Pocket — the ideal pneumatic mattress and 
sleeping bag combined — with our other beds. 
For instance, while the Comfort Sleeping Pocket 
is an air bed in itself to sleep on, and comes 
nearer than anything else to sleep m, just the 
same, when this excellent article is placed on a 
cot bed, spring bed, tonneau bed, or any kind 
of camping bed, acting in the capacity of a 
mattress, then you have the bed de luxe. 

Understand that this combination of the 
Comfort Sleeping Pocket with some other 
foundation bed is not necessary, but it is cer- 
tainly a wonderful place to spend a good 
night. 

In very mild weather you may find the Com- 
fort Sleeping Pocket both bed and bedding, but 
this is exceptional, as August nights at any 
altitude are rather chilly, especially when the 
59 



AUTOCAMPING 

air bed rests directly upon the ground, the lower 
air being colder quite naturally. 

The makers of the Metropolitan Comfort 
Sleeping Pocket have recently put upon the 
market a wonderful eiderdown robe that makes 
excellent bedding to use with the sleeping pocket 
in cold night weather. This is the Poquoig 
Eiderdown robe, and may be had in three sizes: 
60x80 inches, 72x84 inches, or 90x90 inches. 
It has a water-proof covering and is the best 
blanket form of bedding made. 

No matter whether blankets or bags are 
slept in and cots, car beds, tent-bed combina- 
tions, or air beds are slept on, there is one 
important thing to remember and that is to 
always air out the bedding each morning. It is 
foolish to maintain that bags are less easily 
aired than blankets. Simply turn your bag 
wrong side out on a guy rope in the air and sun 
it while you are breakfasting and breaking camp. 
With the Kenwood wool sleeping bags this is a 
very simple task and if two or three bags are 
used, as well as the canvas cover, one inside the 
other, be sure to pull them all apart and reverse 
for the airing. The wool felt-lined flap of our 
Metropolitan air bed is always left back in the 
morning until the bed is rolled up, allowing it to 
thoroughly air out. The car bed and other 
simple beds described in this chapter need no 
special precaution in this matter, of course. 
But it must be remembered, as a prime essential 
rule, to air the bedding. This is necessitated by 
the "breathing" of the pores of the skin during 
sleep. Not only is it most unhealthful not to 
60 



SLEEPING IN HADES 

air out the bedding thoroughly, but it is most 
uncomfortable, since after the bags have been 
in use a few nights they will have absorbed a 
great deal of bodily moisture and be damp and 
clammy. Air and sun are just as essential to 
your autocamping bedding as your similar bed 
..coverings at home. Indeed, when you stop to 
consider, they are more important, since your 
camp bedding is packed in a tight bundle all 
day long as soon as loaded into your automobile 
or trailer. 

A whole chapter might be written on sleeping 
garments for the autocamper, but actual ex- 
perience has solved the problem for our family, 
and we have tried a great many ways and means. 
The better plan is not to carry extra night cloth- 
ing as such, but to use your extra underclothing 
for this purpose. You need the extra suits of 
underclothing anyhow in case of emergency and 
even if no emergency presents itself, like a skin- 
deep drenching in an unexpected storm, they 
may not be superfluous bulk if you use 
them for sleeping garments. On our feet in 
chilly weather goes a pair of heavy wool socks 
or stockings. Extra blankets or sleeping bags 
for more frosty nights may be added as needed. 
One of the most delightful garments for night 
comfort when all other things fail will be the 
extra wool sweaters. This is not theory, but is 
the fruit of experience. Some things sound 
queer when you sit by the table lamp and read 
them, and you wonder why when you try them 
out on your trip. 



61 



Chapter IV 
The Combination Tent and Bed 

THERE is no equipment more distinctly 
built for the sole purpose of autocamping 
than the tent-bed combination. It is the 
old story of killing two birds with one rock. 
By combinations of tents and beds into one unit 
for transportation and erection, the double 
problem of shelter and sleeping is solved. You 
get, generally speaking, a minimum of weight 
and a maximum of compactness by having the 
bed and the tent one single unit of your 
roadside camp. 

In several of these combinations the outfit 
may be set up in conjunction with your car, or 
independently. In others the tent-bed may be 
used only attached to the automobile. And in 
others the camp is entirely independent of the 
car. In most of them the bed is a very im- 
portant feature, forming the veritable founda- 
tion of your camp and supporting the tent. In 
some, the head room is limited and the living 
room nil. In others, there is plenty of head 
room, and a living room and dressing room as 
well. 

The combination tent-bed will bear very close 
examination because it is something of a new 
thing under the moon and you will need to make 
G2 



^^lA'C* ^^ i.S-Xt-'V^^ 




1 Schaefer Half Wall Outfit 

2 A. B. C. Tent-Bed Camp 



3 Another A. B. C. Tent-Bed Outfit 
4 The Gold Medal Tent Bed apartment 



AUTOCAMPING 

your selection most carefully for your peculiar 
needs. 

The various A. B. C. autocamps present the 
most unique and greatest variety of all tent-bed 
combinations. The foundation of the various 
styles of camps is the remarkable "one leg" bed 
with a tension arrangement, pulling from head to 
foot, that makes sleeping comfortably an easy 
feat wherever night overtakes you. 

The A. B. C. bed is nothing short of a mechan- 
ical marvel, and nobody need shy because of its 
apparently freakish lines. It has strength and 
buoyancy, and that means superlative sleeping 
ease. You might think that this bed would 
pull sideways when weight was distl*ibuted 
unevenly, but the fact is, it will not. In our own 
camps we have slept an adult with a five-year-old 
youngster, and there was no tendency to side- 
pull, nor was there any discomfort because of the 
disparity of weight. There is not the tendency 
to sag toward the centre with this bed either, a 
fatal drawback to beds that do not have the 
head to foot tension. 

This unique bed may be used with a camp 
attached to your car or it may be used in a 
tent-bed camp independent of your auto. 
When attached to the car it is held supported by 
two clamps attached to the running board and 
which hold the head rail in place. A single in- 
clined bar, or leg, extends from the head rail — 
where it is securely braced — lengthwise under 
the center of the bed. Half way down this leg 
are a number of notches, and a stretcher bar 
from the foot rail — likewise well braced on each 
64 



J 



COMBINATION TENT AND BED 

side — fits securely into the notch selected. The 
position of the stretcher bar in its particular 
notch determines the height of the bed, which 
should be about two feet off the ground when 
the weight of the people who will sleep on it has 
been made to bring the bed mat down as far as 
it will go. Once experience has shown you the 
notch best suited, you simply put the catch 
device into this notch and go on guying the bed. 

Upon the foot rail of the A. B. C. monoleg bed 
are three short guy ropes. The centre rope 
guys down to the end of the bed leg, while the 
other two go to pins driven into the ground 
nearby, much the same as at the corners of any 
tent. 

The double bed has a mat 54x80 inches, being 
a very ample camp bed, and the weight is 20 
pounds. Furthermore this interesting bed has 
only three parts to carry and assemble and is 
surprisingly simple and sensible. Three medium- 
sized adults, or two adults and one or two chil- 
dren, could occupy this bed easily in emergency. 
Its great strength and large capacity make this 
possible in safety and comfort. The simple bed 
is the same length and 30 inches wide. The bed 
mat is made from 20-ounce brown canvas. 

Before leaving the subject of this monoleg bed, 
it should be mentioned that when secured to 
your car without the tent in position you have as 
good a canvas top table as you could desire. 
This is more fully described in the chapter on 
camp furnishings. 

When the tent is put over this bed its ridge 
is the top of your car, while the rear wall of the 
« 65 



AUTOCAMPING 

tent is supported by two sticks on the foot rail 
of the bed. Two guy ropes are all that are 
needed to draw the tent roof taut, the ropes 
being attached to the same two pins that hold 
the foot rail of the bed. The locking curtain 
device on all A. B. C. tents is something to be 
thankful for, and is most efficient and instant in 
operation. You pull down the little ball on the 
chain and your curtain door is absolutely locked 
and the opening is as tight as any other part of 
the tent wall. The windows are screened and 
the flaps may be opened or closed or held at any 
desired position by cords on the interior of the 
tent. 

The double bed, with running board brackets 
for attaching the head rail, web straps, guys, 
steel tent pins, and balloon silk tent, weighs 
only 35 pounds. The same combination, but 
the tent of 8-ounce khaki army cloth, weighs 
39 pounds. 

One of the best of the A. B. C. autocamps 
does not attach to your car but stands in- 
dependently. The bed is exactly the same as the 
one described, but instead of attaching to brack- 
ets on the running board, it is supported by two 
telescopic rods. These rods are driven into the 
ground, one at each end of the head rail, and 
their upper ends support the ridge of the tent. 
The rear wall of the tent and the bed itself are 
attached in exactly the same manner as when 
this outfit is used in cooperation with your 
car. 

Th€ tent itself in the camp, independent of 
the car, is quite different, being in fact a two- 
66 



COMBINATION TENT AND BED 

room camp. The bedroom part depends on the 
size of the bed, which is 54x80 inches. The 
dressing room is exactly the same size but the 
walls come clear to the ground at the dressing 
room end of the wall tent, while they extend only 
to the lower part of the bed mat on the other. 
This outfit with its balloon silk tent, 4 screened 
windows, double bed, 2 telescoping rods to 
support the ridge, and steel tent pins, weighs 
45 pounds. The dressing room, of course, 
makes a fine living room and dining room, 
serving just the purpose needed. You climb 
into your bed over the head rail. In 8-ounce 
khaki cloth this camp weighs 50 pounds. You 
may get an 8-ounce fly — which also acts as a 
carrying bag for the whole outfit — for this 
particular autocamp. 

An important feature of the A. B. C. auto- 
camps is the fact that they are a good deal like 
sectional book cases : you can use several of them 
together, joined in harmonious assemblies. That 
is, the four- or six-people camps are really double 
or triple the two-people size, and set side by side. 
The four-people size will really accommodate a 
family of six. The five-room Summer Home 
camp will accommodate eight adults and weighs 
but 120 pounds. The two-room camp will take 
care of a small family by using another bed in 
the dressing room. The versatility of the A. B. 
C. camps is a strong recommendation. You can 
make them do almost anything for you and 
lose nothing that almost any camp affords. 
Besides standing along your car, you can also 
face the camps together independently of the 
67 



AUTOCAMPING 

car itself, if so desired. You may have floor 
cloths or not, and flies are optional. 

The attachment of the walls of the A. B. C. 
camps to the bed mat by means of a series of 
tapes and eyelets, not only anchors the walls to 
the bed, but serves another purpose. That is, 
the attachment forms an overhanging clothes 
pocket so that each member has nearly twelve 
feet of pocket space. The inward extending 
edge of this side wall, after forming a pocket, 
then takes the form of an eight-inch overlapping 
apron that lies flat on the bed top, and when the 
blankets are spread upon this the tent and bed 
form one sealed unit. 

All the A. B. C. outfits fold and roll into space 
that is surprisingly small and may be carried 
upon the running board of any car, not even 
interfering with the opening of either front or 
rear door on some cars. 

The Stoll Combination Bed and Tent com- 
prises a sagless spring bed 18 inches high, 
48 inches wide, and 73 inches long. The tent is 
supported by rods attached to the bed, is in the 
shed form, and in size is 75 inches square on the 
ground, 78 inches high in front, and 4 feet high 
at the rear. The front unbuttons and stretches 
horizontally to form a porch or to extend over 
the car top' if desired. 

The Dav-0-Tent Beds are very interesting, 
and are offered in three sizes, according to the 
width of the bed, which is determined by the 
length of the running board to which the bed 
will be attached. The three sizes are 45, 48, and 
54 inches in bed width. Folded on the running 



COMBINATION TENT AND BED 

board this style of bed forms a luggage carrier. 
The tents erected on telescopic steel rods over 
the beds are the half-wall type with screened 
and curtained windows. Beds with this outfit 
weigh 37, 38, and 39 pounds, and the tents about 
35 pounds. 

The Gold Medal tent-bed is nothing more 
than a cot bed supporting a frame upon which 
the tent rests. This autotent combination is set 
up independently of the car. However the car 
may be utilized to attach guys and braces. 
Indeed with several styles of tents and tent- 
beds set independently of the car, the automobile 
may be made to serve in place of stakes for 
guying the tent home; and likewise the car may 
be set close to the tent in a position to protect 
you from the wind. 

The Gold Medal double cot with tent frame 
attached makes a fine roadside sleeping room. 
The tent frame is made of hardwood with the 
well-known Gold Medal folding construction 
features. It makes a rigid, roomy bed chamber 
by the roadside for two people. The tent is 
specially made to fit over the frames and is sort 
of a rather flat-roofed tent with lean-to attached, 
thus making a two-room camp with plenty of 
room for tables, chairs, wash-stand, and so on. 
The cot and frame fold neatly together, the 
frame sticks being a little longer than the 
folded cot. 

Another style of tent-bed that works inde- 
pendently of your car is the Campo, and the 
double camp will sleep four people easily, or six 
by the addition of another bed. The tent is of 



AUTOCAMPING 

the wall type and the peak is supported by 
braces from the beds at each end of the tent. 
This same tent in single unit may be used as a 
shed tent beside your car, or not, as you choose. 
The bed alone weighs 53 pounds, having a steel 
frame with springs that are more like those on 
the ordinary bed than almost any other tent-bed 
combination. This bed is 74 inches long by 
48 inches wide. The weight of the tent and bed 
combined will come somewhere around 75 
pounds. The bed is equipped with a mattress, 
and since the frames supporting the tent are not 
vertical, rather leaning outward at an angle, 
there is dressing room beside the bed. 

The Schilling combination has a bed that 
weighs 65 pounds, and is 48 inches wide by 78 
inches long. The head rail of the bed is bolted 
to the running board. The head and foot rails 
are supports for about two dozen coiled springs 
each, and these are connected by cables to form 
the springs of the bed. The tent is of the shed, 
or half-wall type, attached to the top of the car 
for a ridge. The springs are covered wih a 
canvas mat. 

The Stoll outfit is essentially like the Schilling, 
the bed weighing 63 pounds and being 46 
inches wide by 75 inches long. The Stoll can 
be readily set up apart from the car. The tent 
is similar to the shed type of the Schilling. 

The Tentobed outfit offers a steel tube frame 
bed, which sets up as one unit, having an 
adjustable end-rail to regulate the tension of the 
bed roll. The bed roll is equipped with exten- 
sion springs. The mat is made from two heavy 
70 



COMBINATION TENT AND BED 

layers of canvas to give greater warmth and to 
substitute for a mattress. The bed is 4 feet 
wide, 6 feet 6 inches long, folds to a roll 4 feet 
long by 5 inches in diameter, and weighs 32 
pounds. The canvas tent is a sort of hip- 
roofed affair supported from the bed corners 
by rods. The Double Tentobed is made by 
placing two single outfits so that they face 
together. This makes a camp with two double 
beds, having 5 feet of space between them. 
There is a 9-inch sod-cloth upon which the legs 
of the bed rest. Four windows with screens and 
curtains, also Marquisette net curtains on each 
side at entrance, make this outfit insect-proof. 
Base dimensions of this camp are 6 feet 6 inches 
by 13 feet. Each single unit folds to a roll 
4 feet long by 6 inches in diameter, and weighs 
about 40 pounds. 

The Rush Outing Outfit is a typical tent- 
bed combination. The Rush bed is 48x78 
inches, folds to a roll 7 inches by 4 feet, and 
the bed supports the Lumberman's Style tent 
on steel telescoping tubing. There is plenty of 
room to dress inside the tent, and indeed to put 
inside another wide bed. The Emeraldine or 
khaki-colored tents with this outfit are 6 feet 
7 inches front height, 6 feet 6 inches deep, and 
have plenty of head room. A silk floss mattress 
is a part of the Rush Outing Outfit, and the 
whole packs compactly. The carrying box of 
this outfit unfolds to form a camp table. 

Another excellent bed with a tent over it, is 
the Schaefer Red Seal T Auto Tent, which is 
light in weight, roomy, water-proof, and com- 
71 



AUTOCAMPING 

pact when carried. It has two bobbinet lace 
screen windows, flap going over car and curtain 
between car and tent. This outfit is made with 
a ridgepole. The Red Seal bed with the Schaefer 
outfit is 17 inches high, 47 inches wide, 6 feet 
4 inches long, and folds to a roll 6 inches by 
47 inches. 

The Berg Jiffy Auto Tent is a tent supported 
on the bed as a foundation, there being dressing 
room between bed and car, the car top acting 
as the ridge to the frame of the tent. This 
outfit is 7x9 J/^ feet, with dressing room part 
7x5 3^^ feet, accommodating extra bed if needed, 
and weighs 87 pounds complete. 



7t 



Chapter V 
Comfortable Clothing 

CLOTHING of the right kind for the 
motor camping adventure is a question 
that no other kind of outing can settle 
for you, the experienced woodsman leading you 
astray on one hand, and the hotel tourist on the 
other. Autocamping is a field of its own and it 
has its own peculiar needs in regard to com- 
fortable wearing apparel. 

The experienced woodsman tells you never to 
wear union suits for underclothing, because 
when your legs are wet you must strip nude in 
the cold to change to dry woolens, and he is very 
careful to warn against outer garments that are 
too "wooly" and so catch upon every twig, or 
too noisy in the brush, as the scratch and rustle 
of canvas clothing. At the start the auto- 
camper will find the union suit much more com- 
fortable to wear, especially when riding, for 
the old-fashioned shirt-drawer combination 
seems to collect itself together in a series of 
bunches at your back and hips, the jolting of 
the car serving only to make it worse. Nor 
will the average autocamper be getting his legs 
wet, for he will not be in the woods walking and 
his work in wet grass early in the morning about 
his "front door" will be done in hip rubber boots.- 
Said rubber boots being a most essential part 
73 



AUTOCAMPING 

of the motor camper's clothing outfit, and an 
article that the woodsman does not believe in, 
simply because they are too heavy to carry and 
too hard on the feet for constant wearing. 

The hotel tourist will tell you to take along 
extra clothing in a steamer trunk. He, like the 
experienced woodsman, will be wrong. The 
hotel tourist travels from hotel to hotel along 
his route, he must suit the veneer of convention, 
and hence he has to have "glad togs" with him. 
The autocamper does not have to "doll up" for 
the conventional dining room of any hotel, for 
he eats his meals at home, said home being his 
autocamping domicile. Many of us went 
through that steamer trunk siege, carrying it 
wrapped in a canvas or oil cloth covering to 
keep out sand, mud, and dust; and we have 
borne up under the overbearing glances of a 
hotel landlord for the last. We are independent 
of his tyranny. 

And the understanding of just what auto- 
camping clothing is for, will make it more easy 
to select intelligently. It must be easy and 
comfortable to ride in, must protect from wind 
and the chill of inactivity when riding, must 
not be "too warm" when we stop, must do for 
sunshine and wet weather, and must not include 
a single item not essential. 

Going to the bottom, good wool underclothing 
should be worn unless you are in a very warm 
climate, and then it is to be doubted if you can 
find anything better than a light-weight wool 
suit. Wool serves as the best non-conductor of 
heat. It is for this reason warm in winter, 
74 



COMFORTABLE CLOTHING 

keeping body heat in, and cool in summer, 
keeping the atmospheric heat out. Wool will 
take care of you when riding or sitting about 
camp, it protects in sun and rain, and is the only 
underclothing for every member of the family. 
At least two suits of wool underclothing for each 
person is the minimum. 

The extra suit is for two things : for emergency 
and change while the other may be washed, 
and to afford you the best kind of sleeping 
garment. Three suits per person will be ideal, 
one being very heavy and the others medium- 
weight wool. One may use either the heavy 
or the medium for the nightly sleeping gar- 
ment, according to the nights. And there is no 
part of the motor-camping experience of such 
a variable quantity as the temperature of the 
nights. The warmest nights in August in a tem- 
perate climate will not be found too warm for 
the medium wool union suit for your sleeping 
garment when you are sleeping in the outdoors. 

Four pairs of wool socks or stockings should 
be taken along for each member of the party, 
two light-weight and the others very heavy. 
The Kenwood Outdoor Comfort Stockings are 
to be recommended, for they are woven from 
pure wool with an exceedingly soft finish com- 
fortable to the most tender flesh. Home-knit 
wool socks proved that "the kind grand- 
mother made could not be beaten" but are 
usually rather coarse and rough compared with 
the manufactured product. 

Breeches, rather than trousers, are right for 
autocamping and I have yet to find anything 
75 



AUTOCAMPING 

more suitable for the purpose than the Duxbak 
outfits. These are made from the well-known 
water-proof material, called Duxbak, which is 
not only rain-repelling but also so scientifically 
wet-proofed that perfect bodily ventilation is 
permitted through the porous material. Knick- 
ers in waterproof or soft material are gaining in 
popularity, especially with women campers. 

The Duxbak Riding Breeches are ideal for 
autocamping, being roomy and comfortable, 
having plenty of pockets that are big and deep, 
the two hip pockets buttoning with a flap, the 
two semi-top pockets being ten times more 
accessible than the similar pockets in the regula- 
tion soldier's breeches, and the Duxbak boasts 
two watch pockets. These breeches are equipped 
with both belt loops and suspender buttons. 
Personally I shall never wear anything but some 
kind of shoulder supports for my breeches, and I 
believe experience riding long hours will prove 
them best in nine out of ten cases. If you do 
not want to wear the ordinary suspenders, then 
try the invisible kind. 

Duxbak breeches are constructed double at 
seat and knee and will prove the most efficient 
material possible, being sturdy and still more 
comfortable. The legs lace in front, something 
like a soldier's breeches, from ankle to a few 
inches below the knee. Leggings, puttees, or 
wool socks and high top boots should be worn 
with the riding breeches. 

With these breeches a good wool shirt in 
khaki color will not only make a pleasing com- 
bination but will prove most comfortable to 
76 




1 Duxbak outing dress for men or women, and Russell Moccasin Pac boots 

2 Ideal woman's outfit of Duxbak riding breeches, Norfolk Coat, waterproof 

hat and leggings, with Army wool shirt altered to form a middy 
77 



AUTOCAMPING 

meet all the various conditions of the motor 
camping life. The army O. D. wool shirt has 
one objection, and that minor: it is not made 
in coat-style, necessitating pulling off and on 
over the head. Otherwise it is a wonderful 
article. There are several makes of excellent 
wool shirts to select from, and so long as the 
make is pure wool you are safe. Two wool 
shirts should be in each individual outfit. 

For the coat there is no better than the 
Duxbak Norfolk Jacket, purposely made to 
wear with the riding breeches and of the same 
material. The entire body of this coat and the 
upper sleeve is full lined with Duxbak cloth, 
making a double absolutely water-proof covering 
for the body with plenty of opportunity for 
bodily ventilation just the same. The collar is 
convertible with corduroy facing and there are 
adjustable wrist bands, allowing the cuffs to be 
buttoned closely about the wrist to keep out 
wind when desired. Roomy game pockets are 
invisible and open from the inside front on 
either side. There is a fly-book pocket for your 
pocket-book or book of flies, as well as a match 
or compass pocket inside the coat on the left. 
Then there are the two regular roomy side 
pockets. Special ventilation gussets are located 
under each arm. This Duxbak coat will be 
found extremely comfortable because built on 
*'over size" lines, which should be the case 
with all outer garments really best for auto- 
camping. 

For your head the Duxbak cap will be found 
ideal, being much better than a hat for riding. 
78 



COMFORTABLE CLOTHING 

Two caps, or a cap and a soft hat, should be 
in each personal outfit. 

For ten years I have found nothing better than 
})ac moccasin boots for outdoor wear. Mrs. 
Brimmer and I find great comfort and endurance 
in our Russell's moccasin pac boots and they 
are ideal for autocamping, being water-proof as 
well as least tiring to the feet and giving all the 
protection of the strongest leather boot. Extra 
pairs of shoes or pac boots will not be taken as long 
as you wear a grade like Russell's. Anyhow it is 
most essential to carry at least one pair of rubber 
boots in the party, and the member who wears 
these will do the work about camp in wet grass. 

A leather vest with wool lining is excellent for 
cold autocamping. A wool sweater for each 
member of the party is essential at all seasons 
and in all climates other than tropical. At night 
there is the double service from the wool sweater 
when it is worn as part of the sleeping outfit. 
A good sweater fluctuates with the thermometer 
and comes off and on when riding through 
country with variable temperature. 

For the hands of the driver, leather gauntlets 
will be necessary at times, however; in warm 
weather we have autocamped for weeks without 
a hand covering of any kind. Climate and 
season will dictate the matter of gloves or 
mittens for each member of the party. Bandana 
or pocket handkerchiefs need only be men- 
tioned. Goggles may be put in the same class 
with gauntlets, depending on personal needs and 
the commands of the environment where you 
are touring. 

79 



AUTOCAMPING 

At least part of the party ought to be equipped 
for wet weather de luxe and for this purpose 
there is nothing better than the Metropolitan 
'*Rancho," a garment that has all the good 
points of the rain coat and the poncho com- 
bined, with the added advantage of being readily 
convertible into a blanket, and so compact that 
it may be carried in your pocket, or the car 
pocket. The Metropolitan capes are made in 
two grades, the "Perfection," and the "Rancho," 
the latter being the heavier and the better for 
autocamping, although for ordinary bad weather 
the lighter will serve very well. The Perfection 
Cape is made from Tyco silk, rubberized with 
pure Para rubber on one side, and smoked silk 
finish on the other. The heavier "Rancho" is 
double-coated black rubber. Both kinds open 
along the sides of the sleeves, fastening together 
with snap buttons. 

For extremely cold-weather autocamping you 
may need heavier outer garments over those 
already described and indeed in summer you 
may find Western mountain roads that lead you 
over high altitudes where a heavy outer coat 
will be most essential. For this purpose some 
will prefer a Mackinaw, others a fur coat, and 
still others a lined leather coat with fur collar. 
Certainly a long coat will not be required, and 
for many autocampers the ordinary Mackinaw 
is just about right, being warm over the vital 
parts of the body and leaving the legs free, a 
motor robe covering the knees if necessary. 

The individual outfit will include the follow- 
ing, subject of course to human whims and 
80 



COMFORTABLE CLOTHING 

idiosyncrasies, and nearly the identical outfit 
will be found most satisfactory for women as 
well as men: 

1. Underclothing, wool, 2 or 3 suits. 

2. Stockings or socks, wool, 4 pairs. 

3. Breeches, riding type, or Knickers, Wet- 

proof. 

4. Leggings, puttees, or socks, 1 pair. 

5. Shirts, woolen, 2 of them. 

6. Coat, same material as breeches. 

7. Cap and soft hat, or 2 caps. 

8. Footwear, pac boots and rubber boots, 

1 pair each. 

9. Vest, lined leather. 

10. Sweater of best wool. 

11. Driving gloves, handkerchiefs, and goggles. 

12. Raincoat, Mackinaw, or lined leather coat. 

The clothing for women is a matter that auto- 
camping has put into a new realm. A pair of 
riding breeches not so long ago was a thing to be 
gaped at on the outdoor woman. Gradually 
hiking clubs introduced them and proved their 
value and eventually motor camping shook its 
fist in the face of false modesty, so that today for 
all practical purposes Mrs. Brimmer is equipped 
exactly like the author and the above list will 
serve as a rough guide for your help, being ex- 
actly what experience has proved most com- 
fortable in clothing day after day, week after 
week, and indeed on a few trips we can say 
month after month. 

The Duxbak riding breeches are purposely 
made for women with two side and one hip 
6 81 



I 



AUTOCAMPING 

pockets, opening on both sides at the hips. 
These breeches are made of single-weight 
material and the lower legs lace exactly as 
the similar breeches for men. Duxbak leggings 
should be worn with these breeches, unless wool 
socks and high pac boots are preferred. 

On some trips the women folks still seem to 
cling to skirts, and there are no better than the 
Duxbak riding skirt cut in such a way that the 
left buttons over on the right side, making a neat 
appearing walking skirt when used as such and 
as handy about the autocamp as a skirt can be 
when worn as for riding. Bloomers of Duxbak 
should be worn with this outfit. They have a 
narrow band and buckle below the knee, and 
openings on both sides. Generally speaking 
the women will leave corsets at home on the 
autocamping excursions. However if this article 
must be worn at all events, then the Ferris waist 
with shoulder straps is very good. This helps 
support the stockings and the clothing from the 
shoulders, a very comfortable way to accomplish 
this burden with the least tiring strain. 

My wife and several other women have dis- 
covered that there is no waist made that quite 
equals a remodeled man's wool shirt for auto- 
camping. This alteration of the shirt is ac- 
complished by removing the lower part and 
making a first-class middy. Riding breeches 
may then be supported, as they should be, from 
the shoulders by means of a Kazoo elastic 
harness. 

Children may be outfitted completely with 
outer garments from the same excellent Duxbak 
82 



COMFORTABLE CLOTHING 

material with which their elders are made 
comfortable. Infants will require little different 
clothing than they would wear at home, wool 
abdominal bands being part of the outfit of our 
children until two years of age at all seasons and 
times of the year. From two to four years the 
youngsters may be outfitted in any strong 
clothing of sufficient warmth. Bloomers and 
Dutch-bloomer dresses are better if dark colored. 
A w^ool baby bunting makes an excellent outer 
protection and for cold nights may be used for a 
sleeping garment. From five years and on the 
Duxbak people have an outer outfit for your 
children. 

All things considered corduroy is not the best 
material to wear on your autocamping trip. It 
is heavy and when damp is the hardest kind of 
material to get and keep dry. More and more 
outers are getting away from corduroy in favor 
of Duxbak, Kamp-it, serges, gaberdines, meltons 
(the last three in wool), moleskins, khaki, 
gaberdines, and duck (in cotton goods); some 
water-proofed and others not, and all of them 
them made purposely to make autocamping in 
comfort easy from the clothing standpoint. 



83 



L 



Chapter VI 
The Stove for the Purpose 

THERE are a few primitive instincts that 
the hardest-glued veneer of civilization 
will never completely cover, and among 
these one of the most powerful is man's love of 
fire. The hairiest caveman just recently dis- 
covering the magic of stick rubbed against stick 
to produce a flame, or perhaps having captured 
it where lightning had left a burning stump, was 
never more enthralled by his fire possession than 
his razor-plying descendant of today. 

In youth, a bonfire satiated the elemental 
passion, and whether of leaves collected by 
aching backs or brush and rubbish accumulated 
by Father Time, it was nevertheless a thing to 
be late to bed about. 

Behind a man's love for home is perhaps his 
first love for fire. The ancients made fire the 
symbol of the hearth, the home, the family 
circle. Fire seemed to have a close relation to 
creation, to their sun gods, and to life-beginnings. 
And certain it is that the force behind life, be it 
chick in shell or protoplasmic stuff from which 
the stars are made, is heat, warmth, or some- 
thing of temperature that is kind to the nucleus 
cell. How slight the dividing line between life 
and death. Fire is a great deal the brother of 
time and space and air. 
84 



THE STOVE FOR THE PURPOSE 

No wonder, then, that man almost falls down 
to worship it, and his reverence is almost ten 
times multiplied when he is autocamping. Then 
if ever the love of fire comes to the front and 
its real worth to the rudiments of living are 
most evident. A tour of a day, a week, or a 
month would be as stale as week-old bread 
without the camp fire in one form or another. 
Fire goes along with the freedom of the out- 
doors, with the independence of the auto- 
camper, and is a part of the pathway that leads 
back to Nature, 

He who autocamps must heed the call of fire 
to extract all the joy from his trip. Not that he 
needs to leave a smoking bed of ashes behind 
him, or, if less careful, a smoldering nest of live 
coals — a thing that was left to mark the trail of 
the pioneers. But some kind of a fire device, be 
it open to the sky or housed in some fire-making 
machine, must be along the trail of the outer, 
the lover of independent ways and means, the 
autocamper. 

Fire, or rather potential fire, carried along 
with you in convenient form makes you a 
credential guest at Hotel de Roadside. Some- 
times it may be a simple water-proof match box 
that unlocks the door to the campfire by way of 
yellow or white birch ribbons and dry wood, and 
after that you meet over the purple-red coals 
the chef, face to face, in the culinary depart- 
ment. It may be an open grate over your 
burning wood that comprises your outing stove, 
or more simple yet, merely solidified alcohol in 
cans inside the most simple little fire-machine 
85 



AUTOCAMPING 

you can imagine. Or your autocamping hotel 
may be made complete with a folding wood 
stove with pipe and elbow and damper and 
draft arrangement. But likely the type of 
stove that you will find more popular East and 
West is the merry little gas stove, burning 
gasoline, distillate, or acetylene gas. 

Since the gas stove is likely more used by the 
autocamper than any one other fire-making 
machine, it will be rightly considered first. 
There are some campers who shrink from the 
gas stove today because they claim there is not 
the romance to it that is afforded by the open 
wood fire or fireplace, and their arguments may 
be well worded and well taken. The fact re- 
mains that in this modern age we must be 
sensible. In many sections of the country it 
may be unlawful to kindle a fire along the road, 
and in others it is perhaps impossible; at least 
unless the fire is enclosed in a proper wood fire- 
box. And I like to remind Sir Particular Man 
that if he is really going out into the open to do 
as grand-dad did, he should tour, not with a 
twin-six, but with an ox team or horses at best. 
And other things accordingly. So it is not 
beyond reason to convince him that after all the 
gas or gasoline stoves are not ipso jacto instru- 
ments for taking the romance out of autocamp- 
ing. It all depends on the mental psychology, 
the way you look at it. 

There are several models of two-burner 

gasoline stoves on the market and at least one 

gas stove of the acetylene type. The auto 

camper can hardly afford to carry less than two 

80 




Cree Tent wood stove with pipe and legs 
Common-sense collapsible stove 
Using the gasoline Kampkook Oven 
The Little Red-E Camp Stove 
The Livingood Folding Wood Stove 
Kampkook gasoline stove and kitchenette 
87 



AUTOCAMPING 

burners with him, unless his party is very small 
and even then the two burners are practically a 
necessity, one for boiling the coffee pot and the 
other for food preparation. 

The Kampkook two-burner gasoline stove, 
with or without the oven and kitchenette 
features, most naturally fits itself to the outfit 
of the autocamper. The legs of this stove do 
not come off, but slide up into the body of the 
machine when not in use, nor do they protrude 
in the way when the stove operates. The 
cover to the folded stove acts as the bottom or 
base, in each corner of which rests the lower 
end of a leg. This fire-machine burns the same 
fuel as your car and so long as you don't neglect 
your gas tank you will never be without fuel for 
your camp kitchen, no matter where you go, 
which is a gigantic consideration for the auto- 
camper. The gasoline tank for this stove de- 
taches and packs inside the body of the fire- 
machine when carrying. It is a matter of ten 
seconds to lift the tank from the interior of the 
stove and set it in place at the end, no screws 
or bolts or anything having to be turned. You 
just put the stem of the tank in place and rest 
the end on the ground, or allow it to hang 
straight down, and that is all. 

When carried, this particular gasoline stove 
looks like a metal suit case of very small ca- 
pacity. It is less than 15 inches long, not 4 
inches thick, and 8* inches wide, and it weighs 
but 8 pounds. Another beauty of this outfit is 
the fact that if you want a roast and bake oven 
you can carry the stove, fry- and bread-pan, 
88 



THE STOVE FOR THE PURPOSE 

right inside the folded oven, so that the com- 
plete kitchenette appears in shape like the stove 
alone. The Kampoven, with utensils, includ- 
ing the two-burner stove complete, is a little 
larger metal suit case, being 17 inches long, 11 
inches wide, by 10 inches deep. This includes 
one 9xl5-inch bread pan and one combination 
roasting and frying pan 9x15 inches with a 
unique folding handle that is a success, as 
mine has proven after many months of con- 
stant use during several seasons. The cover to 
the oven is not used as a part of the baking or 
roasting outfit, but has a hinged device that 
allows you to set up an llx33-inch wind breaker 
back of your stove, if you camp in a gale by 
chance. 

And it sometimes happens that you do get 
wind from unexpected sources when you camp 
along the highway, as the writer has found in 
scores of camps supposedly selected for being 
sheltered on the lee of mountain or green 
timber hedge. The gasoline stove has never 
been blown out in the most violent wind. You 
may have trouble to light your burners at 
the start in a high breeze, unless you are a 
smoker, of course, but once going the burners 
cannot be extinguished by wind. In some 
camps it has even been necessary to start the 
stove inside the tent simply because the wind 
would have extinguished the lighted match, and 
after once going the merry gasoline stove was at 
once put outdoors. Of course there is absolutely 
no objection to using it inside the tent if you so 
desire, and indeed this stove works on the same 



AUTOCAMPING 

principle as the blow-torch, and can therefore 
be used indoors in your home if you so desire. 
I have a relative who always gets out his gasoline 
stove when he wants to pop corn winter evenings 
for the benefit of the kids. And he puts it any- 
where it happens, on the kitchen sink or the 
kitchen table. There is absolutely no escape of 
gas from this stove and it is far more safe than 
the average kerosene stove. 

The Tourist Camp Stove is another excellent 
gasoline stove of the two-burner type. The 
tank hangs nicely balanced at one end, and the 
combination oven, warming shelf, and wind 
shield is a worthwhile feature. The folding legs 
of this stove lock, open or shut, automatically. 
The burner plates appear to admit a maximum 
of hot flame, and the enclosed mixing chamber 
prevents rapid cooling of the vapor. This 
outfit may be had with a complete kit of oven, 
handle pan, baking pan, etc. Its dimensions are 
about 5x10 by 19 inches and the weight is 
about 12 pounds. 

The Kamp Kook gasoline stove (not to be 
confused with the Kampkook already de- 
scribed) is a two-burner affair much on the 
same order as the others, but with fuel tank 
secured rigidly to the end, where the tanks on 
other stoves are detachable and pack within 
the case. With this stove comes a coffee pot, 
fry-pan with cover, sugar and coffee container, 
and the entire outfit packs within the case of the 
stove. The dimensions are about 5x10x18 
inches, and the weight of the two-burner type is 
18 pounds. It should be mentioned that most 
90 «. 



THE STOVE FOR THE PURPOSE 

of the gasoline stoves may be had in one- 
burner, and a few in three-burner, style. The 
Kamp Kook, and others, are offering their 
camp stoves fitted with long legs that bring 
them up to ordinary kitchen stove height, a 
mighty convenient arrangement. 

The Stoll gasoline stove, also of the two- 
burner type, boasts legs that stand this camp 
stove 27 inches high, and there is a shelf under 
the stove. The lid folds back to form a warming 
shelf back of the stove. The size is 4x11x18 
inches and the weight 20 pounds. 

The Auto Camp Stove has two burners, the 
fuel tank placed in the center of the case with a 
burner on either side. This stove is much like 
the ones described, except that it is assembled 
inside an ordinary tool box, such as carries on 
the running board. 

The Glen wood Camp Cooker presents a 
unique idea in two-burner gasoline stoves, 
being a gravity feed affair, yet folding com- 
pactly. Also it has legs that raise it well off the 
ground. The fuel tank is elevated about the 
height of your head and holds enough gasoline 
to operate the stove 14 hours. There is a wind 
shield at sides and back, and a drop shelf in 
front. The size of this stove is 8x12x20 inches 
and the weight is 19 pounds. 

Gasoline stoves present a problem when re- 
plenishing fuel, and to meet this difficulty one 
should go equipped with the American Gas 
Machine Auto Siphon, which takes gasoline 
from any kind of automobile tank and runs it 
into the tank on your stove. 
91 



AUTOCAMPING 

If you have never had experience with a 
gasoHne blow-torch, you may have to learn the 
knack of lighting your gasoline stove, but this is 
a simple matter and the directions are complete 
with each fire-machine. The needle valve is un- 
screwed a bit and the little metal cup on top of 
the burner nearest the tank is -allowed to fill 
with perhaps a teaspoonful of gasoline, which is 
at once set on fire by a lighted match. With 
each stove there comes a small pump, which is 
attached to the top of the tank by a valve and 
used to push into the tank air pressure for send- 
ing the gasoline or vapor past the needle valve. 

In two minutes the fire on your burner has 
about gone out and the pipe of the gas tank just 
over it has become hot. Now, when the fire 
has about burned out where you put the gasoline, 
unscrew the needle valve just a bit. The 
gasoline will be forced through the valve and 
will quickly vaporize in the coils placed under 
the burner through which it passes before reach- 
ing the place of combustion, where it is burned 
as a gas. Sometimes you may not unscrew the 
valve quite quickly enough for the fire to catch 
from the burning fire over the burner and an- 
other match may be needed. This hardly 
needs to be mentioned, but often in unpacking 
you will forget the stove perhaps, and a match 
will do the trick if the fire on the burner goes out. 

With any type of gasoline stove you must be 
just reasonably careful not to flood the burners 
when starting the fire. You know what a 
flooded carburetor means, and in a sense this is 
what you may do by giving your stove too much 
92 



THE STOVE FOR THE PURPOSE 

pjas at the start before it is thoroughly warmed 
up and the gasoline vaporizing nicely. Once you 
have started this stove, and you should try it 
out with a new stove before your trip, it will be 
found more easily accomplished than starting 
a wood fire. 

When you are through with the fire, you can 
turn it almost out by screwing tighter the needle 
valve, or readily turn it entirely out by closing 
the valve. This regulation of fire-heat in- 
tensity makes it possible for you to get in- 
stantly any desired temperature for cooking. 
After the one burner has been started, the 
second, which is independent of the other 
when not needed, is started by unscrewing 
the thumb screw, pulled through the slot in 
the end of the stove, and by lighting it with a 
match. There is no delay with this second 
burner, for it uses the vaporized gasoline made 
from the first burner. As soon as the second 
burner is lighted the blaze of the first will 
perceptibly go lower because number two is 
using part of the gas, and so the needle valve 
should be unscrewed just a little more to get the 
right flame from both burners. Always turn out 
number two burner first, and then screw down 
the needle valve tight to extinguish number one. 
The gasoline tank works best when about three- 
quarters full and will burn nicely from two to 
five hours, depending on the height of the 
flame and whether you have one or two burners 
going. Personally I have included with my out- 
fit a little funnel that aids me in refilling the tank, 
for although the top of the tank is concave and 
93 



AUTOCAMPING 

the fuel readily runs into it, the tiny funnel 
makes it a little easier. This funnel carries 
inside the stove with the tank, wire grate, 
wrench for taking off the head of the tank for 
filling, and the pump for forcing in the tank air. 

The great beauty of the gasoline or the gas 
stove is the fact that you have intense heat at 
once. The first time you use the gas stove you 
will be surprised at the short time it takes to 
boil the coffee from cold water, and unless you 
are wise and keep the burner a bit low you may 
almost burn what you are cooking over the other 
burner. In the stove used by the writer you 
may regulate one burner high while the other is 
kept low, and the same may be done with the 
other gas stoves I expect. 

The Prest-0-Lite gas stove is nothing but a 
tank of compressed gas carried in a small con- 
tainer and a gas burner or burners, as you 
like. The tank for this autocamping fire device 
is a cylinder 6x20 inches, and may be carried on 
the running board or under the rear seat or in 
the tonneau of the car. Each stove with this 
outfit is a tiny burner that weighs less than a 
pound. A refill gas tank may be had at any of 
the more than 20,000 exchange stations in the 
United States. A great advantage of the gas 
fuel outfit is the fact that the same fuel that 
cooks your meal may be made to light your camp 
at night, and in this way the problem of camp 
illumination and camp cooking is solved double- 
headed. 

Generally speaking the kerosene type of camp 
stove is not to be recommended for camping 
94 



THE STOVE FOR THE PURPOSE 

with your automobile. In the first place you 
might better use gasoline, and in the second a 
drop of kerosene may taint your whole camp 
commissary. However there are some who 
prefer kerosene as fuel. 

An excellent kerosene camp stove is known as 
the Kerogas, which burns gas generated from 
the fuel. It is of the one-burner type and has 
legs and carrying handle. The cylindrical body 
is about 10 inches in diameter by 13 inches high, 
and the weight is 11 pounds. 

The next most important stove to the auto- 
camper is the very compact collapsible folding 
wood stove. Personally I would hardly set out 
to autocamp without both a gas and a folding 
w^ood stove with me, for nights may go down 
near freezing when your days are up to summer 
heat and the wood stove comes nearer to making 
camp really home than any other thing about it. 
In climates, altitudes, or country where the 
nights are chilly the wood stove will be found 
ideal for not only warming up the tent for the 
night, but also for getting the evening meal. 
And in the morning it is the jolly wood stove that 
cooks breakfast and makes the snappy or foggy 
morning comfortable. Especially in rainy 
weather — likely the sorest of sore spots that 
could be touched in autocamping — does the 
wood stove come into its full sway. It keeps 
your tent and bedding dry and your spirits jolly 
in spite of the downpour. A wire screen spark- 
arrester will make camp safe when balsam or 
other spark-emitting fuel is burned. 

There is on the market an improved type of 
95 



/ 



AUTOCAMPING 

an old stove. This is the Cree Common Sense 
Wood Stove especially made for use in the 
automobile and for the autocamper. It has 
wiped out that old balky trick of the sheet iron 
stove of warping by a unique system of almost 
invisible semi-tubelike braces on the interior. 

The new Cree Common Sense stove with eight 
feet of pipe, elbow, collar for tent, legs, damper 
for pipe, front draft, bottom and lid lift comes 
in a canvas carrying bag less than 1 1 inches wide, 
28 inches long, and 4 inches thick. It is almost 
unbelievable! The five sections of rectangular 
pipe telescope so that the size of the upper length 
is the full capacity of room space taken by the 
complete eight feet of pipe. When I first used 
this stove I spent fifteen minutes looking for the 
elbow. The makers of this pipe have eliminated 
this part of the smoke pipe entirely by the most 
clever arrangement of pipe that can be devised. 
You put the pipe together just as marked and 
you have two right-angle turns, equivalent to 
two elbows. That's all there is to it. It's all in 
the pipe. 

In the first length of pipe, or rather where the 
first and second join, there is the damper. 
When packed in the neat carrying case the legs 
and lid lift are slipped inside the telescoped pipe, 
while bottom, sides, ends, and top, lie flat and 
only two inches thick. A remarkable feature of 
this stove is the simplicity with which it is 
jointed and un jointed by an L-arrangement. 
There are no clamps or clasps. You simply put 
the parts together and when the top is slid in 
place it absolutely locks the entire stove parts 
96 



THE STOVE FOR THE PURPOSE 

together, ends, sides, bottom, and top. Each 
pipe length is about 22 inches long. Two stand 
upright over the stove, two extend horizontally 
out through the collar in the tent, and the fifth 
length is the vertical chimney on the outside of 
the tent. 

This stove packs easily under the rear seat of 
your car or carries neatly in the tonneau or in 
the luggage carrier on the running board. It 
can be put up or taken down in three minutes or 
less. The bottom should be covered with soil, 
sand, or small stones before the wood fire is 
started in it to secure best results and not cause 
even the best built bottom to warp under the 
strain of the intense heat of a quickwood fire. 
Some wood stoves that I have tried smoked the 
tent terribly. Never in any camp where I have 
used this stove has it ever back-smoked on us. 
Naturally this is a matter that the selection of 
camp site may have something to do with, for 
if the tent is turned so that the draft of the wind 
is down over the ridge or over some near barrier, 
then any stove will smoke without exception. 
The damper in pipe and draft in front of this 
stove combine to make fire regulation simple 
and effective. There is one lid at the top for 
putting in fuel or setting in the stew pot or fry 
spider. The top surface of the stove is 10x28 
inches. The legs hold the bottom three or four 
inches off the ground and when collapsed and 
folded you could hardly guess that the small 
package contained a good-sized wood stove that 
will hold a fire all night, together with eight feet 
of pipe, two elbows, legs, lift, and the rest. 
' 97 



/ 



AUTOCAMPING 

When not wanting a stove inside the tent 
and desiring only to build a wood fire along the 
road, this same stove may be had without legs, 
bottom, or elbows and collar, and with but two 
lengths of pipe. The better way is to get the 
tent stove and then when you are merely 
wanting a fire at the roadside outside the tent, 
all you need assemble will be the sides, ends, 
and top, put up two lengths of pipe with damper, 
and you have a first-rate wood stove. The 
collar for the tent stove ought to be sewed into 
your tent before your trip starts, and a copper 
wire is supplied with each collar for the purpose. 
Never rip a hole in the wall of your tent if this is 
avoidable, but rather take a knife and break 
open a sewed seam, which will afford a place for 
the collar without mutilating your tent. When 
packed in the canvas carrying case or being set 
up or taken down, you must use ordinary care 
not to bend the parts of this stove, or any stove, 
and so make it more difficult to assemble next 
time. See that nobody steps on the stove in 
whole or in part. It may be interesting to 
know that this new stove is the result of forty 
years of camp stove evolution by a man who is a 
"go there" camper himself. It is to my mind the 
ideal wood stove for the autocamper, even the 
pipe hole being in one corner of the top so placed 
that it does not interfere with the use of practic- 
ally the entire top for cooking purposes. There 
are several sizes of the Cree Common Sense 
stove to suit the size of your outfit and numbers 
of people. The Baby Cree is only 28x93/2x11 
inches, while the largest size for parties of eight 



THE STOVE FOR THE PURPOSE 

people and tent to match is 12x12x39 inches and 
has an excellent oven built into one end. So 
complete is this line of wood camp stoves that 
there is even a non-collapsible special Tourist 
Model, with water-proof carrying case. The 
author prefers the folding stove for autocamping. 
The Cree people are building a combination 
wood and gasoline stove that promises much for 
making motor camping easy. This new stove 
is to burn wood when you can get it, or will 
handle gasoline when wood is not available, the 
two combined in a perfectly safe manner. 

The Livingood wood stove is about 11 inches 
high, 12 inches wide, by 20 inches long, and 
boasts a hot water tank, pipe, oven, hearth, 
roasting pan, and coffee pot. The weight of the 
complete outfit is 23 pounds. The fire box 
burns either wood or charcoal, and has an ash 
space below with a door that acts also as a draft 
regulator. The fire door is 6x10 inches. There 
are no bolts or screws and the material is good 
quality sheet iron. 

The Artesian sheet metal camp stove follows 
the ordinary box stove lines, but has legs that 
elevate it well off the ground. The top is 12x20 
inches and the height of the fire box is 11 inches. 
The top has two covered holes. On either side 
this stove boasts a warming shelf. The pipe is of 
the flat type. The weight is 17 pounds. When 
folded the dimensions are 2x12x20 inches. 

The Wehrle stove is about 18 inches wide, 
27 inches long, 12 inches high, and with its cast 
iron legs the cooking top stands 18 inches from 
the ground. The oven is 8x11x16 inches. The 



AUTOCAMPING 

top has four holes with 7-inch lids. The pipe 
with this stove is round, but of the telescoping 
type. The weight is 33 pounds. 

A cast iron folding camp stove that will not 
warp is the Notabolt. Its non- warping feature 
is rather heavily offset by the fact that this little 
stove weighs almost 40 pounds. Its cooking 
top is also very limited, being but 11x18 inches. 
No pipe comes with this camp stove, but it takes 
regular 3-inch round pipe. The warpless feature 
of this stove will be greatly appreciated by those 
who have never used anything but the ordinary 
sheet metal kind. 

The Nugget Folding Camp Stove is a wire 
grate affair with reflector baker oven attached 
to the rear, which is the only side enclosed by 
sheet metal. A meat broiler comes as regular 
equipment. Set this stove down on a rock or 
bare ground and build an open fire beneath it. 

The Mazura camp stove looks like a small 
edition of an old-fashioned drop-leaf table, 
having an open grate top with the drop-leaves 
of sheet metal. In the 8x9x1 6-inch size this 
stove weighs 7 pounds; while the 10x10x22- 
inch weighs 12 pounds. The Boyco camp stove 
is very similar in construction to the Mazura. 

A unique idea in simple camp stoves is the 
E-Z Stove, which regularly burns charcoal. The 
fuel comes in convenient packages with fuse 
ready for inserting in the stove and lighting 
at meal time. While these stoves are so small 
that you can hold one in your hand while light- 
ing it with the other, still they serve their pur- 
pose well. Two or three miniature stoves 
100 



THE STOVE FOR THE PURPOSE 

should be kept working simultaneously to get a 
full meal. The take-down feature is very 
complete and for really compact, very light- 
weight, and yet efficient camp stoves, the E-Z 
takes the prize. 

A unique stove and oven that takes wood for 
fuel but has no pipe is the Red-E. Folded, this 
stove and its reflector type oven are slipped into 
a canvas carrying bag — much like a shopping 
bag — that is 12x20 inches and little more than 
one inch thick. The Red-E wood stove will boil, 
broil, and bake at the same time, and if you do 
not mind a little smoke, will serve as well as 
almost any wood stove, and certainly much 
better than an open camp fire. 

Set the Red-E with the back toward the wind 
and scratch a hole under the rear edge for a 
draft. Lay four or five heavy sticks of wood 
parallel from front to rear, their ends butting 
against the back of the stove. Put your kindling 
on these, then place other sticks on top, criss- 
cross, allowing the ends to project out. There is 
no need chopping wood into short lengths as the 
longer ones are simply pushed into the firebox 
as they burn. To attach the oven, which may 
be used independently of the stove if desired, 
hook it on the back of the stove by the two 
wire hooks purposely placed, and set up the 
folding leg at each end to steady it. 

In a high wind you may need to face the front 
of the Red-E into the breeze if you want to bake, 
for the cold air blowing directly upon it, as the 
stove would naturally set, would hinder its 
operation. 

101 



AUTOCAMPING 

A most simple fire-machine, that the auto- 
camper will find excellent for certain purposes, 
is the canned-heat affair burning solidified 
alcohol. For a quick heat on a small scale this 
simple stove is the proper thing. With our two 
small children we have always carried three 
stoves : the gasoline two-burner (or the acetylene 
gas outfit), the folding wood stove, and the 
canned-heat stove. The wood stove keeps the 
tent warm and dry, the gas stove cooks the noon 
meal along the road when we do notV care to 
unpack everything, while the little alcohol stove 
heats the baby's milk at feeding time. 

More simple stoves, or excuses for stoves, 
may be made by simply carrying grates, bars, or 
grids along. In many sections where auto- 
camping parks have been set aside, mainly in the 
West, although the East is rapidly falling in line, 
there will be found ready-built fireplaces wait- 
ing for you. Just the same, your own stoves 
will be the main reliance for your trip and most 
essential for warming your tent home in cold or 
damp weather. 

Of late the old principle of reflected heat has 
been put to work to help the autocamper, and 
the reflector baker is the result. A wood fire is 
built in front of the reflector oven and the heat 
from the outside fire is put to work for you. 
The baker is folded into a small space and is 
very light, being made of aluminum or light 
material. It works standing with its V-shape 
body facing the fire, the grate on which camp 
biscuits, breads, cakes, pies, cookies, etc., are 
placed being level and on a height with the 
102 



THE STOVE FOR THE PURPOSE 

fire outside. Thus the heat is reflected against 
the top and bottom of the baking food in the 
oven. This oven is a fine one for the amateur 
because he can watch the process very closely. 
The refiector baker may be used with face 
turned toward your camp stove, as well as with 
the open fire. 

The 8x10 size of the reflector baker will nicely 
hold a dozen biscuits and weighs but two 
pounds, folding almost flat enough to go under 
the floor mat of your car. The 10x16 size weighs 
five pounds and is about double the capacity of 
the other. The bakers are equipped with folding 
legs. The folded outfit comes in a canvas case 
and being nearly flat forms practically a neg- 
ligible part of the equipment for your auto- 
camping trip. 

If you use an open camp fireplace to cook, 
make sure to build it Indian style, long rather 
than round. Have a backlog of green wood if 
possible. Sometimes a trench scooped out will 
make the draft of the fire better and keep the 
smoke going more in one direction. One of the 
most successful improvised stoves I have seen 
used was made by digging a trench three feet 
long in a small hillock. The top for this was a 
piece of sheet metal rescued from a roadside 
scrap heap and the pipe was an old milk can 
from the same source with the bottom and tops 
off. It surely drew well, and a grate on top of the 
chimney was found an ideal place to do part of 
the cooking. The pot used acted also in the 
capacity of a damper to hold down the rather 
heavy draft of air. Of course this was not a 
103 



AUTOCAMPING 

stove that was portable, but served well for a 
week's camp. 

A really light and portable woodsman's stove 
of homemade construction is the old center pipe 
affair, made by driving a three-foot inch iron 
pipe into the ground, and building the fire all 
about this vertical post, hanging the pots and 
kettles about by wires extended from the top. 
This is not a practical autocamper's stove be- 
cause the blackened pipe and pots and kettles 
are not pleasant to have around other camp 
equipment. This stove has recently come on 
the market manufactured as the Campfire 
Grubstake. 

There are several manufactured stoves and 
near-stoves that can hardly be mentioned here, 
but that serve the purpose intended in fine shape. 
Any article of the fire-making family will do its 
duty when handled as the makers instruct and 
for that purpose. And camp stoves are a good 
deal like women — Lord bless 'em. There is a 
type that fills the need of every autocamper and 
more than enough to go round. If you are wise 
in your choice, just as a woman's hand and 
heart make life more worth living, so the camp 
stove rightly selected for the purpose and 
handled correctly will make the autocamping 
trip a labor of love. The reverse comparison is 
as true. One thing sure: don't always listen to 
the lure of the appearance of the stove, but pass 
judgement solely on true utility. After all, 
^'handsome is that handsome does." 



104 



Chapter VII 

Keeping Food Fit: The Refrigerator 
Basket 

A PROBLEM that will prove worth careful 
consideration for the prospective auto- 
camper will be that connected with 
carrying his food in a sanitaiy and safe place 
about the hot body of the automobile. In the 
early days of the avocation of autocamping the 
writer and his family were well satisfied to carry 
the butter in a glass jar, our milk came from the 
tin heifer, meat had to be eaten fresh cut, fish 
must come to pan direct from the hook, and 
fresh fruit and cool drinks, to say nothing of the 
luxury of ice cream and ices, were out of the 
question entirely. 

Of course this applies to warm-season camp- 
ing, and indeed ninety percent and more of us 
autocamp during the summer and early fall 
months when the days are warm to hot and the 
combined heat of the sun, the quick conduction 
of heat by the metal parts of the car, and the heat 
from the engine itself make a consideration that 
even a non-epicure cannot dodge. There is 
nothing that can quite take the joy out of auto- 
camping like flowing butter, sour cow's milk, 
meat or fish that are toward the western sun in 
age, and messy, hot, sticky food that all but 
turns the stomach of the chef along the roadside. 

105 



AUTOCAMPING 

One of the biggest assets to autocamping is the 
appetite that touring brings to the family. And 
hence it is most important that good fresh food 
be set on the dining table de roadside, just as 
appetizing as that which comes upon the 
dining table "back home." The health profit of 
the trip is made or unmade by the condition of 
the larder in warm-weather camping. 

Our first experiment had to do with a home- 
made ice box on the running board that had a 
drip arrangement underneath. My friends said 
I simply had to be good on my trips because 
that dripping ice box left a tell-tale track where- 
ever I went. Several times I have been in- 
formed by interested folks that "something was 
leaking," pointing to the crude box on the run- 
ning board. A homemade affair that will hold 
ice fairly well may be constructed and an 
ordinary box lined with zinc and insulated 
between wood and zinc with saw-dust, will make 
an ice box that may do. Any such device has 
the great disadvantage of being bulky, heavy, 
and the arrangement of the interior is apt to be 
most inconvenient. 

By far the better system of keeping food fit 
along the road is to use the refrigerator basket. 
When this device came upon the market my 
friends hailed it as a place to keep their drinks 
cold on long trips, and at best it came upon the 
public as a camping luxury that was nice but 
not needed. 

Today, after many adventures with my 
refrigerator basket and having tried it with every- 
thing, I class this basket as a prime essential to 
106 



I 



KEEPING FOOD FIT 

successful autocamping. The refrigerator basket 
is a necessity and not a luxury. It is not an 
article that is on the border line between the 
essential and the non-essential. It ranks among 
the first articles to be assembled for real auto- 
camping. 

With the Hawkeye refrigerator basket along 
we have, anywhere we wish to stop in the whole 
wide outdoors, our larder cool and fresh as in 
our ice box at home in the kitchen. Instead of 
carrying our butter in a glass jar, we now carry 
it often in the bricks just as it comes from the 




J'he Refrigerator Basket carries your food anywhere, and the Gasoline 
Two Burner cooks it anj'where 

107 



AUTOCAMPiNG 

grocery, wrapped in wax paper inside the card- 
board carton. It comes out along the road just as 
hard and unyielding as when the groceryman 
took it from his ice chest, and in many cases it 
has "frozen" harder by several degrees after 
being in our basket half a day than it was when 
we purchased it at some remote corner store. 

Then there is the old, old story of milk on the 
camping trip. The writer has been through all 
the stages, from canned and powdered and con- 
densed and evaporated to the real article. A 
few seasons ago we set our hearts on nothing but 
Klim, the best form of powdered milk that I can 
find, and we carried with us everywhere an 
egg-beater for the almost sole purpose of beating 
the powdered milk into water. In this form the 
powdered milk is certainly much better than 
when stirred with a spoon. But the best canned 
preparation is at best an imitation of the real 
thing. This is especially true when you and all 
the family are milk eaters by profession, and 
instinct and somehow the milky start we all get 
leads us pretty naturally to cling to cow's milk 
as the most wholesome food through after life. 

With the refrigerator basket you need never be 
without fresh, ice cold cow's milk in the hottest 
August sun, if you are in country where the 
bovine flourishes by the roadside. When select- 
ing camp in the afternoon we always ask about 
fresh milk for morning, and a camp that does not 
promise us milk, either near or within walking 
distance, is not a complete camp site, so we pass 
on and try again. Two or three quart bottles 
can be neatly carried in the refrigerator basket 
108 



KEEPING FOOD FIT 

and they are better than a similar number of one 
quart glass fruit jars because they take up less 
floor space. The milk supply for the day is 
obtained from the farm or the small town milk 
station or the groceryman or milk dealer or 
meat market — anywhere convenient, but early 
in the day. The ice will keep in the refrigerator 
l)asket a little more than twenty-four hours, but 
each morning it is better to throw out the water 
and small particles of ice left for a fresh supply. 
Hence the milk supply can be depended on to 
keep a whole day and even longer. Butter and 
milk should be set against the ice compartment 
in the basket, which will naturally keep them a 
little lower in temperature than the things in the 
farther end. 

Then there is the question of meat on the 
autocamping trip, and the refrigerator basket 
takes that from the hands of the butcher 
and carries it all day or more days fresh and good 
as though in the kitchen ice box. It is indeed 
a pleasure to start out in the morning with a 
favorite cut of meat stowed away in the handy 
basket and know that, where and when you 
want it to broil, it will come up as cool and well 
kept as meat could be expected anywhere. 
Indeed you can freeze it hard by putting it into 
the ice container itself. And years of camping 
prove the popularity of broiling steak along the 
road, hence the virtue of the refrigerator basket. 

Then also there is the game meat that may be 

taken in season in the woods and fields beside the 

road. This may be dressed out and kept cold, 

the body temperature soon vanishing, and ready 

109 



AUTOCAMPING 

for a meal the first time you stop. Since the 
hunting season does not come as a usual thing 
in the warm months, the refrigerator basket 
may not play so important a role in this par- 
ticular matter. However, I have seen the 
October when I was glad to have the basket in 
which to put my freshly dressed grouse, wood- 
cock, quail, rabbit; and in the Adirondacks I 
have kept the refrigerator basket filled with 
venison when the hot days of the hunting month 
would certainly have spoiled it faster than it 
could be eaten by ourselves and friends. 

The cold efficiency of this basket to take care 
of fish is a virtue that makes it well worth having 
for this purpose alone. And indeed if many 
fish are put in the basket it will need to be used 
for that alone. Of course the penetrating fishy 
odor may be eliminated by scalding the metal 
interior, but just the same the women, whose 
noses are pitched two full octaves higher than 
men's (as a friend once put it), are going at least 
to imagine that the fish have flavored the butter. 
Hence, when practical, I have used one of the 
small baskets for fish and game and things that 
might taint, and another for butter and milk. 
However for carrying short distances and for 
half a day, fish may be safely carried with other 
food in the basket if well wrapped in paper. 
The same principle exactly will guide you in 
this matter as that which applies to the family 
refrigerator. Usually fishing is done by the 
autocamper at sunset, infrequently in the 
morning. Usually there is time, after camp is 
made for the night, to go out and fish if you have 
110 



KEEPING FOOD FIT 

selected a camp for that purpose, which nine 
out of ten of us do. In the morning the hard 
task of packing and breaking camp takes too 
long for much fishing. And the refrigerator 
basket will keep your fish until morning or noon 
or the next night, as fresh and tasty as when 
they came from the dark water where you 
hooked them. 

Fresh vegetables may not present the trouble 
that the other foods already mentioned may 
include in the line of proper refrigeration, but 
just the same the cucumbers, and beets, and 
tomatoes, and garden fruit, which you can get 
in many sections at places along your route, are 
all going to be better and fresher if kept on ice 
in the basket. The same thing applies with far 
more importance to fresh fruit of all kinds with 
but few exceptions. Also berries will keep far 
better in your basket than anywhere else about 
the hot car body. The amount of fruit saved by 
proper refrigeration will pay for the basket in a 
season, provided you are fruit eaters. Per- 
sonally I can see no reason why it is less health- 
ful to eat fruit a la autocamping than when at 
home. Indeed, with the refrigerator basket we 
never leave our dining table behind us. We take 
it with us anywhere. 

Even the luxury of fresh cream in the coffee is 
a reality with the refrigerator basket in your 
outfit. And it keeps jam and pies (if you are so 
epicurean) just as well. Then there is mayon- 
naise and ginger ale and other things far too 
interesting to mention that may someday go 
along with you and that you will want to keep 
111 



AUTOCAMPING 

as cold and appetizing as possible. I must in- 
clude ice cream and ices in the good points of 
the refrigerator basket. We eat ice cream fre- 
quently on the family table at home and we do 
the same in the field. 

Ice cream should be packed in a heavy card- 
board carton and wrapped with five oi* six 
wrappings of wax paper, each wrapping separate 
and complete from the one before it. Then this 
must be packed in the ice chest itself with the 
broken ice all about it, which is the way you 
would have to keep it in the family refrigerator 
if you were to hold it in shape for half a day. 
And ice cream along a hot, dusty, summer trail 
tastes just a little better than anywhere I have 
ever eaten it, not to except a dish devoured in 
the scorching hay field. I have eaten it both 
places. 

If there is a baby, and especially a bottle 
baby, in the autocamping party, then the 
refrigerator basket is more than a necessity. 
Before we started with our six-months' babe, 
Gloria Bess, on an extended autocamping trip, 
we consulted He-That-Knows. We were in- 
formed by the medical man (and he is the 
deepest dyed-in-the-skin outdoorsman that I 
number among my friends) that our babe would 
be better on our trip through the healthful high 
altitudes we were to autocamp than at home. 
There were some provisions in his statement, 
however. We must keep the babe warm and 
comfortable nights, and keep her food pure and 
fresh. 

It turned out that this particular two- weeks' 

112 



KEEPING FOOD FIT 



trip, with changed cow's milk each day, did the 
youngster all the good the physician said. We 
were careful to get the cow's milk from sources 
that advertised themselves by telltale marks as 
clean and sanitary, and always selected milk 
that came from a whole herd, rather than just 
one animal. And the refrigerator basket re- 
ceived each morning a mixed allotment of cow's 
milk and the modifying factor that w^ent with it 
to make up baby's feedings. It carried this^ as 
well as if it had been placed in our gloomy, im- 
movable ice box "back home." 

Besides the actual food for the infant, there is 
lime water, milk of magnesia, and other things I 
never learned the names of that the refrigerator 
basket will carry safely and keep in right shape 
on the hottest trips. If a refrigerator basket is a 
good thing for a babe, its a very good thing for 
the rest of the family. 

Not only is the refrigeration all there is to 
this basket. It also affords a place in which the 
food is packed neatly, conveniently, and carries 
safely. Glass bottles, jars, and cans stand side 
by side with bits of cardboard or paper slipped 
between their contacting surfaces. Sometimes 
the dish towel is used to the same purpose. On 
smooth, macadam roads nothing at all is needed 
between the glass containers so long as they are 
all packed firmly against each other and the 
sides of the basket. Just from the standpoint 
of a sanitary, dust-proof, rain-proof place to 
carry food, the refrigerator basket is far superior 
to any homemade cupboard arrangement that 
I have ever tried. But its refrigerating capa- 
» 113 



AUTOCAMPING 

bilities make it that much more worthwhile for 
the autocamping equipment. 

At first the refrigerator basket may seem a bit 
heavy as you pick it up empty, but this is be- 
cause of the excellent insulation and the food- 
protecting principles on which it is built. It is 
practically air-tight when the hinged cover is 
strapped shut and there is a key-locking buckle 
on this strap. The ice compartment is separate 
and removable and holds enough ice to last 
thirty-six hours. Of course the greater space 
inside the basket is available for food packing. 
The interior and underside of the cover are 
lined with nickelplated metal, making it most 
easy to wash and keep clean in camp. The 
bottom is wood and the sides are strongly woven 
reed. Between the metal and reed there is a 
special non-conducting insulator which keeps the 
heat out and the cold in. The lid likewise is 
insulated. This basket is rust-proof and should 
last, with ordinary care, a lifetime. 

Ice for the basket container is best obtained as 
early in the morning as possible on your trip. 
The first town we passed through after breaking 
camp always supplied the ice. Of course, where 
towns are long distances apart, as in parts of the 
West, this is a rule that cannot be held to, but 
the extra-large size refrigerator basket filled to 
capacity will take you from town to town almost 
anywhere where ice is obtainable. Generally we 
purchased something from the groceryman for 
the day and he gave us the ice. Sometimes the 
farmer where we purchased the milk had his own 
ice house and I can remember nearly a dozen such 
lU 



KEEPING FOOD FIT 

places where, in dairy country, we have filled the 
auto ice chest. Again the ice came from the 
meat shop where we had bought a slab of bacon 
or a steak. Several times the ice came from the 
confectionary store where the party stopped for 
ice cream, and sometimes when we stopped to get 
ice cream to take with us out on the hot trail 
ahead of us. In likely half the instances where 
we obtained ice no charge was made for the 
small amount required to stock the basket, and 
in the other instances where we paid for the ice, 
which we always offered and were glad to do 
anywhere it was obtainable, we were never 
charged over a dime, and more times it was a 
nickel. 

In filling the ice compartment we have found 
that a well-packed mass of rather finely broken 
ice is better than one ill-fitting large piece. Ice 
broken for packing ice cream tubs is just about 
right, and if possible I like to mix one or two 
large chunks in the center, wedging the smaller 
bits all about tightly. The ice compartment 
itself has a tight cover so that the water from the 
melted ice does not slop out into the food part, 
and the compartment may be lifted from the 
basket for emptying the water. In fact we 
never carried the basket away from the car to 
obtain ice. We merely took the ice compartment 
out and had it filled. 

The Hawkeye refrigerator basket is made in 
several sizes, and the one found most practical 
by the writer for small families is the "Tonneau" 
size which is shown in the photographs. (See 
Frontispiece and page 107.) There are two 
115 



AUTOCAMPING 

sizes in this particular style, one being 21 inches 
long, 10 inches wide, and 12 inches deep. The 
larger size is of the same width, but one inch 
longer and 2J^ inches deeper. 

For the party of two or three there is the 
"Regular" basket, which may be obtained 
either 18 or 20 inches long, 12 or 13 inches deep, 
and either 83^ or 10 inches wide. For larger 
parties the No. 1 "Auto" basket is made of 
slightly larger dimensions, with not only the 
lengthwise strap on the other baskets, but also a 
strap crosswise that enables the basket to be 
fastened to the car. A dull-finish rubber cover 
may be had with this basket. The No. 2 "Auto" 
style of basket is still larger; and there is still 
another style, the "De Luxe," from which to 
select just the particular autocamp refrigerator 
that suits your needs and numbers. The 
"Everybody's" basket is a newer model at a 
conservative price with tin interior and solid, 
rather than hinged, top, but in other ways 
similar to the regular Hawkeye baskets. 

No camping trailer, with which the author is 
familiar, is built without an ice chest today. 
The value of food carried at low temperature is 
a recognized necessity with the trailer builder 
and user. What has been said about regfrigera- 
tion of food in regard to the refrigerator basket, 
applies equally to the ice chest on the trailer. 
Too frequently in the past, car autocampers 
have not considered the importance of keeping 
food fit, and hence have not used the refrigerator 
basket. We should all take a tip from the 
116 



KEEPING FOOD FIT 

trailer, and if we camp in our automobile, keep 
our food fit in the refrigerator basket. 

If you prefer a running board refrigerator box, 
the Auto Refrigerator is to be recommended. 
In size it is about 8x14x24 inches and weighs 26 
pounds. It is secured to the running board by 
clamps. The food and beverage compartments 
are at the ends, with the ice compartment in the 
center. 



117 



Chapter VIII 
Camp Cookery and Utensils 

NOW for the eats. 
The unsophisticated might believe that 
you autocamped on rubber tires, but the 
first dictates of experience will teach differently. 
You motor camp on your stomach, just as the 
soldier marches. The long rides in the ex- 
hilarating air, most likely mountain-brewed 
(the air), and the excess nerve and physical 
energy that is burned from classifying your 
sensations of new and unique things — all these 
and more make your appetite sharper than any 
double-edged sword. 

Usually food is bought day by day just as 
you need it, a reserve not being carried unless in 
country where stores are scarce. This saves 
weight and packing inconvenience. Your im- 
mediate needs for one day, two days, or three 
days are readily carried cold as ice in your 
refrigerator basket, or in the food box of your 
trailer. But when several days will separate 
you from stores and near-stores, you will need a 
little grub-stake. Father Experience has taught 
the author that the following ration list is about 
right for his family. It will be used merely as a 
rought chart, so much depending on the idiosyn- 
crasies of the human maw that machine-like 
precision in the matter of eats is impossible to fit 
118 



CAMP COOKERY AND UTENSILS 

every case. This ration list is per man per week. 
Women in the party count as men when dinner 
time comes in the outdoors, and I have wondered 
sometimes if they shouldn't count for one and 
one-half men in appetite in the open! Children, 
no matter how small, provided they sit at the 
roadside board, should each count as a full- 
sized man. Such is the tonic and appetizing 
tyranny of the autocamper's stomach. 

Ration List per Man per Week 



Bacon 


2 lbs. 


Onions 




8 ozs, 


Baking Powder 


8 ozs. 


Potatoes 




5 lbs, 


Butter 


lib. 


Prunes 




lib. 


Beans 


8 ozs. 


Raisins 




8 ozs. 


Cornmeal 


lib. 


Rice 




12 ozs 


Coffee 


8 ozs. 


Sugar 




lib. 


Lard 


4 ozs. 


Salt 




6 ozs. 


Meat 


3 lbs. 


Sweets 




lib. 


Milk 


4qts. 


Tea 




1 oz. 


Nut Meats 


4 ozs. 


Tomatoes, 


etc. 


lib. 


Oatnieal 


8 ozs. 


Wheat Flour 


4 lbs 



The only rule about the above list, which may 
be followed safely without variation or except- 
tion is this : Don't use it solely for your mariner's 
compass on the high sea of diet without injecting 
a great deal of your own common sense. It will 
prove suggestive and helpful and make a founda- 
tion. You will want to add some articles and 
leave out many. Suit your palate — and ca- 
pacity. 

One of the old hardships of eating afield that 
has gone with the antiquity of the tallow dip 
119 



AUTOCAMPING 

for camp illumination is the milk-and-butter 
problem. Not so many years ago we used the 
cold grease from our bacon and ham in the place 
of butter, and milk came only in dehydrated 
form, that is, powdered. Today the refrigerator 
basket, or the ice box, takes care of this problem 
just as if you were at home. 

In case you do have to use powdered milk in 
regions beyond the pale (or pail) of the cow, 
try Klim. Klim is milk spelled backwards and is 
the most satisfactory substitute for cow's milk 
we have been able to find, provided it is mixed 
with the water properly. By **properly" is 
meant the use of a good egg-beater. Powdered 
milk beaten into the water will foam, look, and 
taste the part of fresh milk as near as the sub- 
stitute can come to the reality. Do not neglect 
the egg-beater. It is most essential to milk 
your canned cow, and a spoon or fork used in its 
place will prove a most ineffective milking 
machine. I have carried an egg-beater on my 
back into remote country where one had to 
leave behind every possible ounce of excess 
weight. Anyhow, the Missus says I'm fussy 
about milk, being an unweaned calfie. But your 
egg-beater will have other uses about camp, and 
if you must use milk in powdered form it will 
prove its worth at once. 

Fresh meat is an article of diet that is most 
essential to outdoor living. By scores are 
numbered the red squirrel dinners our Game 
Getter has brought upon the table. They have 
been served from sauteing and stewing to roast- 
ing and squirrel-pieing. In season their larger 
120 



CAMP COOKERY AND UTENSILS 

cousins have graced our tables along the road. 
So have rabbits. We tried a woodchuck just 

once A raccoon and opossum have 

never come our way when autocamping in season 
to shoot them, and we have never attempted this 
meat, said by those who know to be right good 
eating. Muskrats may be all right, but I don't 
think my family would forget the appellation of 
rat attached to this meat, although the muskrat 
is a nearer relative of the beaver. Partridges 
have many times graced our Game Getter and 
eventually our roadside tables in season, and so 
have a few pheasants, and woodcock, and quail, 
and prairie chickens. I hope some day to add 
wild turkey. We have several times tried to 
produce bear meat, but failed. Ducks have 
frequently graced our board in season, and in 
many states the duck season opens a full month 
before other game. One delicious fall we 
camped and camped the roads of the Adiron- 
dacks with venison on the menu almost every 
meal. We have had it more or. less infrequently 
on various other trips, but usually the season 
when you may shoot deer is a little late for 
the enjoyment of autocamping. Some falls are 
exceptional. We frequently have vacationed 
when cold weather alone rung the curtain to the 
end of our act, and the fall is a most delightful 
season to autocamp, especially if you are lucky 
and draw a gorgeous Indian Summer. Frogs' 
legs are excellent when you can get them. 

You must remember to get out of your car 
and off the highway to do your shooting of game 
in season, because in many states not to do this 
121 



AUTOCAMPING 

would be unlawful. When game is not in season, 
fish is likely to be. I know of no place where 
you are prohibited from taking fish from your 
car or the highway — if you can do it. And fish 
will take the place of meat certainly. Many are 
the trout, and bass, and sunnie (or blue-gill), 
and rocky, and pickerel, and perch that have 
graced our autocamping table. 

Game freshly killed should be well bled and 
kept in a place to thoroughly cool before eating, 
as it naturally takes considerably longer for the 
animal heat to leave a deer carcass than that of a 
squirrel. Most game meat will have a "gamey 
flavor" that is most objectionable. In many 
cases this is because of the lack of natural fat, 
and any game meat should be introduced to 
bacon grease or butter liberally. Most game, 
including venison at times, should be par- 
boiled at the start anyhow, putting it over in 
cold water to which is added soda a-plenty, 
allowing it to come to a boil, and then pouring 
off the water and resulting scum. With almost 
all kinds of game meat we cook a few strips of 
bacon. Game meat is almost always dry, and 
the dryness is made more palatable by the 
bacon fat it absorbs, the flavor also being 
improved. You can't go wrong with game by 
parboiling and cooking with bacon. Onions are 
frequently cooked with game meat also for the 
seasoning which they give. 

Fish may be eaten as soon as you get them 

from the water and ready for the fire. If 

dressed fish are to be kept in camp or carried 

some hours before eating, do not put them in 

122 



CAMP COOKERY AND UTENSILS 

water to soak, as this destroys the flavor. As 
soon as fish is cleaned and washed, at once wipe 
it dry with a clean towel and keep it in a cool 
place until ready for use. Of course for very 
long intervals you may put them into your ice 
box. The same is true of fresh meat. 

Besides fresh meat and fish you may well 
keep the larder supplied with bacon, ham, 
smoked fish, and even eggs. Eggs were not 
listed on our grub ration chart because they 
present a difficulty in carrying that is objection- 
able to some. We have frequently carried eggs 
hundreds of miles, never more than a dozen at a 
time, and then only in good egg carriers such as 
are used in shipping eggs parcel post. Chipped 
beef is rather salty to eat in camp very fre- 
quently. Canned meat is questionable, but in 
some localities necessary when you positively 
can't get the fresh. When you are hitting the 
centers of civilization once a day or so, it is 
easy enough to get your fresh meat and fish at 
the market and keep on ice in your refrigerator 
basket or in your trailer ice chest ready for use. 

The juices of meats and fish are what give 
them flavor and palatability. This juice is 
purposely extracted for making soup, stews, and 
gravy; but it should be retained for other 
purposes. This is done by first searing the out- 
side of the meat in a hot pan, which sets the 
juices inside the seared coating so they must 
remain inside the meat or fish. 

Frying or sauteing may not always be the 
^ better way to prepare meat for your roadside 
[ table, but it is one of the quickest, and done 
123 



AUTOCAMPING 

rightly it need not prove a stumbling block to 
your digestive tract. Heat the pan hot and 
grease with butter or bacon fat just enough 
to keep the meat from sticking. In the case of 
dry game meat use more grease accordingly. 
Frying in deep fat is objectionable, with the 
exception of frogs' legs, which are tough and 
tasteless unless so fried. Fry quickly over a 
fire that is not too hot and turn frequently, not 
puncturing the meat with a fork, thus letting 
out juices, but turning it with a knife. Season 
when about done and serve piping hot. 

Chops, fat meats, rabbits, squirrels, and 
small game are fine sauted or fricasseed and 
served with gravy. Fricassee is done by cutting 
the meat into small pieces, frying or stewing it, 
and then serving it with gravy. Birds like 
grouse, pheasant, woodcock, quail, and chicken 
are excellent served in this manner. 

Broiling is much faster than roasting, but 
perhaps does not produce the same palatable 
result. Meat that is not tough should be 
broiled. Cut in strips about an inch thick, sear 
the outside, and broil in frying pan or broiler. 
Keep the container covered and turn with knife 
frequently. Serve in dish over which juices 
have been poured with seasoning. 

Roasting meat at your roadside camp is easily 
accomplished with the reflector baker. Pin 
strips of bacon over the roast and put into the 
bake pan, pouring in a little water. Set the 
baker in front of your fire. Baste frequently. 
Reverse the pan when one side appears to roast 
faster than the other. Make gravy from the 
124 



CAMP COOKERY AND UTENSILS 

drippings. To barbecue is to roast an animal 
whole and baste with special dressing. 

Braising improves tough meat and is half- 
way between frying and baking. The meat is 
put in the pan in two inches of water with a little 
bacon or pork and an onion if desired. This is 
covered and cooked, and seasoned just before it 
is finished. Gra^^ may be made by stirring 
flour into the hot grease, adding a little water 
if needed. 

Boiling meat should be done by first suddenly 
dipping it into hard boiling water (to set the 
juices) for three minutes. The boiling should 
then be carried on with a slower fire or with the 
kettle higher from the flame. Stewing is an 
excellent way to handle tough meat or warmed- 
over meats, thickening with rice, vegetables, 
and even oatmeal and flour, and seasoned to 
suit. 

Fish should be fried in very hot grease to a 
golden brown. Trout and other small fishes may 
be put into the pan whole with head, tail and 
fins on, but scales (if they have them) should be 
removed and the interior drawn out. Bacon 
grease is excellent for sauteing fish as well as 
game. Fish may be broiled over moderate heat 
with your broiler or strung on a green stick, 
frequently basting with drippings of bacon held 
just over the fish. Roast fish in your reflector 
or stove oven by covering it with a thin layer of 
butter or bacon fat before it is put into the pan. 
Baked fish is made ready by removing the fins 
and leaving head and tail intact. The stuffing is 
made by putting dry bread crumbs in the fry- 
125 



AUTOCAMPING 

pan with plenty of butter or bacon fat, stirring 
until brown. This is seasoned with salt, pepper, 
and sage, and chopped onion if desired, then 
stuffed into the fish. Wind string about the 
fish, place in pan and lay over it strips of bacon, 
then sprinkle on a little water and dredge with 
wheat flour or sprinkle with cracker or bread 
crumbs. Bake in a hot oven, basting frequently. 

The chef ceremony is not a serious conundrum 
in autocamping, because you have everything 
to do with that you have at home, including 
the cook. This greatly simplifies matters, com- 
pared, say, with touring afoot through back- 
woods country where your utensils, and so your 
menu, must be rather limited. Best of all you 
have stoves with you that will do almost any- 
thing, and better still you have the cook on the 
job. It's very well for the amateur to fry bacon 
and eggs and boil potatoes; but when it comes 
to the fine points of the fine art of cheffing, you 
are glad the cook is in your roadside kitchen. 

The breadstuffs problem is most frequently 
solved by the autocamper at the counter of the 
bakery or grocery store along the way. Camp 
biscuits are indeed a luxury worth trying. 
Biscuits in the raw-material state look like this: 
Wheat flour, 1}/^ pints; baking powder, 13^2 
teaspoons; salt, 1 level teaspoon; grease, 1 heap- 
ing tablespoon; water, 3/2 pint. This will make a 
dozen biscuits, filling an 8-by- 10-inch pan. The 
baking powder and the flour should be first 
mixed and then the salt. Rub into this the cold 
lard or the bacon fat until there are no lumps, 
using a tablespoon for your weapon, and then 

126 



CAMP COOKERY AND UTENSILS 

stir in the water until you have a rather stiff 
dough. Rub some flour on your hands, the 
baking board (clean oil cloth is good), and the 
rolling pin (which may be a round bottle or 
stick of wood with bark peeled) . Roll the dough 
to ?/i-inch thick, then cut out round with can 
cover, using odds and ends to roll again, and 
place in the pan well greased. 

Dough of any kind that has baking powder 
in it should be handled as little as possible, be- 
cause the gas made by the powder becoming 
damp (which makes the bread light), is released 
by too much kneading of the dough and is said 
to be "sad." And a sad sight indeed it is, and 
heavy, too. 

Drop biscuit may be made without baking 
board and rolling pin by simply stirring in more 
water to make a thick batter of the same formula 
given for the biscuit. Stir only enough to get 
out the lumps and no more, then drop young 
pyramids of the thick batter into the greased 
baking pan. 

Flapjacks are readily made from prepared 
flour, and every autocamper swears by his 
goddess of pancakers from Aunt Jemima to 
Teco brands. We much prefer the Parker 
Pancake flours, predominating wheat, corn, or 
buckwheat just as you like. They make a 
richer and more fluffy flapjack, requiring half 
water and half milk to be added. If you are 
away from the source of milk entirely then the 
pancake flours that require only water are 
satisfactory. 

Bread may be baked in camp but is not 
127 



AUTOCAMPING 

advisable unless you make more or less perma- 
nent stays in certain localities, and then you 
will likely be in a municipal autocamping park 
where a bakery will be just around the corner. 
Vacationing is not a time to indulge in things so 
tedious as bread making if it can be avoided. 
Cake and cookies of simple construction are 
another consideration. The following will make 
either cake or cookies for camp: Sugar, 2 cups; 
lard, 1 cup; water, 1 cup; flour, to thicken; salt, 
1 pinch; baking powder, 2 teaspoons. The lard 
and sugar should be first creamed together and 
then the water added, after which sufficient 
flour is stirred into it just right to make it into 
cookies or cake. Spice and seasoning may be 
added as desired. Bake in moderately heated 
reflector of stove oven and allow to rise before 
browning. 

Sometimes the chef will become demented and 
decide on camp pie. Under ordinary circum- 
stances your autocamps will be such stimulators 
of appetites that the plainest food will be craved 
most, to the exclusion of palate ticklers. But 
camp pie may come upon the table as a special 
treat and is more easily made than it sounds, 
because the filling may be raisins, dried fruits, 
or fresh fruits and berries garnered by the road- 
side. Here is the way pie crust looks in the 
knock-down state: Flour, 1 cupful; salt, Y2 tea- 
spoon; lard (cold) Yi cup; water, 4 tablespoons. 
Use a knife to cut the cold lard into the flour in 
pieces about the size of peas. Stir in the water 
with a spoon, and if more seems necessary 
sprinkle it in slowly and carefully, testing to see 
128 



CAMP COOKERY AND UTENSILS 

when the dough is just about right. Divide the 
dough into two parts and roll each out thin on a 
flour insulated board or oil cloth on the camp 
table. Put that layer in for the bottom crust of 
the pie, trimming with a knife around the edges. 
Then press in the filling and add the upper layer, 
pinching the two crusts together about the edges. 
Place the pie in the reflector or camp stove oven 
and bake until done — ask your wife. 

Dehydrated foods and canned this-and-thats 
are now put up in all sorts of ways to tickle 
money from the autocamper. Go your limit. 
Many vegetables and fruits can be carried in 
rather large quantities in dried form because of 
their light weight. Some like prepared coffee, 
but personally we prefer the kind started in cold 
water in the open. Or maybe you will like 
postum or cocoa or hot chocolate or tea. 

It will hardly be necessary to explain any- 
thing that looks like Greek mythology about the 
preparation of beans, potatoes, rice, and the 
common things. Cornmeal may not be re- 
quired at all, but frequently it is handy to dip 
your fish into in place of flour before frying, as 
well as for other purposes, such as cornmeal 
flapjacks and corn bread or good old-fashioned 
johnny cake. Lard may be dispensed with if 
you take plenty of bacon and butter. Nut 
meats are optional, of course, but somehow 
always seem popular with the outer. A high 
authority on food once told me that we eat too 
little nut food. Anyhow, this kind of grub 
tastes extra good in the open. Prunes may be 
carried easily in their dried form and make fine 
9 129 



AUTOCAMPING 

sauce and camp pie. Sweets, listed on my 
ration schedule, generally means sweet chocolate 
bars, a favorite food with the can't-be-satisfied 
appetite of the autocamper. Fruits and garden 
truck in season go without saying. Ice cream .^^ 
Well, yes! And jello, too, fruit filled, and bear- 
ing whipped cream, if you like. There is no 
place you need stop. Autocamping is not going 
into a hinterland or trail-lacking wilderness 
where you exist on salt pork, sour-dough, and 
game. Autocamping is living just as you do at 
home, only more so. Plain food tastes fully 
three hundred percent better in the open. 

The matter of cooking utensils is a little 
problem of its own that is easy enough to solve. 
We use and prefer the aluminum Wear Ever 
4-party outfit and have found it in every way 




Wearevcr Four-Party Cooking and Eating Outfit built of Aluminum and 
made to nest compactly 

130 



I 



CAMP COOKERY AND UTENSILS 

ideal for autocamping. Some claim the alum- 
inum cups burn the mouth, which they likely do 
slightly more than enamelware; however this 
slight disadvantage is more than made up in 
other ways. Others claim the aluminum fry 
pans cause food to stick and are hard to keep 
clean, evidently the result of using a thin metal. 
The heavy Wear Ever fry pans will be found 
excellent for general purposes. We do use a 
steel fry pan with folding handle for some 
things, and the large oblong combination fry 
and roast pan with folding handle, which comes 
with our Kampkook Kitchenette, serves pur- 
poses that call for unusual fry pan uses. Speak- 
ing of aluminum fry pans, if you believe no 
pressed aluminum spider can be made to suit 
you, then have one cast, which will be found in 
every way equal to the steel and even better. 
Aluminum pancake griddles are generally built 
of cast material. However, for autocamping 
flapjacks your ordinary aluminum or steel fry 
pan will do. 

An aluminum 4-party set of Wear Ever 
utensils comprises: 

1 7-qt. Cooking Pot 4 Plates 

1 9-qt. Cooking Pot 1 Salt and Pepper 

1 11-qt. Cooking Pot 4 Knives (steel) 

1 2M-qt. Coffee Pot 4 Forks 

2 83/^-inch Fry Pans 4 Teaspoons 

4 1-pt. Bowls 4 Tablespoons 

4 M-pt- Cups 

This outfit contains 35 pieces and packs 
neatly in a carrying case, weighing complete, 
131 



AUTOCAMPING 

less than 10 ])ounds. All handles of this outfit 
either detach or collapse. The same outfit may 
be had in from 2- to 8-party size, each equipped 
for the needs of the numbers and neatly packed. 
While the two aluminum fry pans listed are of the 
same diameter, their construction permits nest- 
ing, and the two placed into the larger steel 
frying pan makes the three take up only the 
room of the one. 

One may invade the home kitchen for his 
autocamping cooking utensils, but this is most 
unsatisfactory, because things will not nest and 
pack well. Utensils that seemed the best of 
friends in your kitchen cabinet or the pantry 
seem to turn enemies and hate to get near each 
other in any desirable shape for packing once 
you try to get them chumming in the least space 
possible. The things you camp with may not 
come home looking just as they did when they 
left and new pieces may be necessary. The far 
better plan is to get a good outfit at the start 
made purposely for the sole purpose of camping, 
and add to this articles of the home outfit if 
needed. 

Miscellaneous articles will need a place in 
your outfit. These will be: can-opener, egg- 
beater, pancake turner, long-handled spoon, 
long-handled fork, dipper, holders or hooks, 
folding buckets, large knife specially built for 
c^amp use like Marble Ideal or Woodcraft, soap, 
and towels. For an exceedingly large reserve of 
food supply, which cannot be handled by the 
refrigerator basket or trailer food chest, you may 
need extra food containers. Glass jars in the 

132 



CAMP COOKERY AND UTENSILS 

l-qt. size are possible but not practical. Your 
basket or chest will likely take care of all your 
food under ordinary circumstances, that is the 
perishable food, while the dehydrated fruits and 
vegetables, the sugar, baking powder, oatmeal, 
cornmeal, tea, coffee, and the like may almost 
always be purchased in metal or heavy card- 
board containers that will cover tightly and 
carry safely in your pack basket or wherever you 
want to pack them. Articles that cannot be 
carried in original packages, outside of the 
perishable foods taken care of by the refrigerator 
basket, may be protected by large, heavy tin 
cans such as salted peanuts come packed in. 
Or you may simply pack such things in the large- 
size pots of your cooking outfits, which should 
have tight-fitting covers. 

An article that solves many eating problems 
in the autocamp dining room is known as a 
Wilder Luncheonette, which folded in its 
container would readily be mistaken for a 
salesman's case, but when opened you have a 
table about 22x44 inches, six all-steel collapsible 
chairs, six each of knives, forks, spoons, cups, 
and plates. This Luncheonette is contained in 
a case 24x21x9 inches and easily rides strapped 
to the running board of the car. Two metal 
boxes with this outfit will carry all your food 
and extra cooking utensils. It is a dining table- 
and-chair combination, as well as kitchen 
cabinet. And it carries on the running board 
or in your hand like a suitcase. 

There are several suitcase and trunk outfits 
on the market that are excellent, containing 
133 



AUTOCAMPING 

within their sanitary recesses every cooking and 
eating utensil, including thermos bottles, food 
boxes, etc. The Berg, Warren, or Prentis- 
Wabers outfits of this nature all offer excellent 
selections. A five-party trunk outfit is about 
9x10x21 inches, while the average suitcase 
packed with utensils is about 6x13x19 inches. 
Either the trunk or the suitcase outfit carries on 
the running board readily. 

The Kennebunk Lunch Cases are simple 
affairs for holding two thermos bottles and 
having also three tin food boxes. The case is 
equipped with a leather handle, and is about 
6x14x19 inches. As a food container only this 
outfit is most excellent. 

One notices a great many homemade food and 
utensil boxes bolted to the running boards of the 
autocampers' cars. There are several manu- 
factured outfits of this nature now. One of 
them is known as the Auto Kitchenette. It Ls a 
box 12x28x40 inches, having manifold com- 
partments for bread, sugar, coffee, all cooking 
and eating utensils, indeed everything. Further- 
more the side of this box hinges down to form 
an excellent camp table beside your car, 24x48 
inches and regular table height. This outfit 
may be carried on the rear by a special attach- 
ment, rather than on the running board, if you 
prefer. This Kitchenette carries a gas stove. 

The Companion Hiker's Kit is a compact and 
happy solution of the eating afield problem. 
Carrying in a canvas case a two-party outfit of 
aluminum measures about 4x5x9 inches, and 
weighs but 3 pounds and 10 ounces. It consists 
134 



CAMP COOKERY AND UTENSILS 

of the following: one skillet, two plates, two 
combination kettles, two cups, two knives, two 
forks, two spoons, two tablespoons, and the 
kettle tops make two extra plates. 

The Upton Kamp Kook Kit is a very con- 
venient small-size cooking outfit. It comprises 
a folding broiler grid, two frying pans, two cups, 
a stewing kettle and coffee pot. The weight of 
this neatly packed outfit is 33 ounces. 

Thermalware for both foods and liquids, and 
for keeping them either hot or cold, should be 
carefully considered. Thermal jugs and bottles 
are rather well known and very popular. The 
large-mouthed serving dishes, which carry solid 
foods, are even most worthwhile on an auto- 
camping trip. 

The Co-Hot jug is not a thermos bottle affair 
in the strictest sense of the word, being heavy 
glass inside with a sort of tin pail on the outside 
and a shock absorbing insulator between. But 
this jug proves efficient for taking care of liquids 
and is very durable. 



1S5 



Chafter IX 

Autocamp Furniture, Furnishings, and 
Fixtures 

THERE is no part of the autocamping 
equipment that presents more elasticity 
than the matter of furniture, fixtures, and 
furnishings. Just what ought to be taken along 
is a matter of personal disposition. Many times 
our family has gone forth without a single chair 
or table, and you can get along without more 
than one stove — either taking your gas, gasoline, 
or wood — while it is possible in cold weather to 
do without the refrigerator basket, and folding 
wash basins and toilet articles have been left at 
home. However, when possible, which will be 
the case in a majority of all our motor camping 
excursions, the most camp furnishings should be 
taken that we can keep from not being "more 
bother than their worth." 

You can eat your meals, using your folding 
cot or the top of the refrigerator basket or some 
bulky package for your table, but the little space 
and weight added by the acquisition of a folding 
camp table is nil compared to the comfort it 
gives. We have found the Gold Medal folding 
camp table, with or without the shelf, to be 
everything that you could expect of a table. If 
you have made up your mind that all camp 
tables of the collapsible type are wobbly and 
136 



AUTOCAMP FURNITURE 

drunken individuals under the load of a big 
camp dinner, then the Gold ]Medal will surprise 
you. It is almost as sturdy as your kitchen table. 
The top is of hardwood, finished with filler and 
varnish and there are no separate parts to top or 
legs. The legs lock to the top by a simple effec- 
tive device and no screws or nuts are tightened 
whatever. The folding top is exceedingly well 
made, and the simplicity with which it is held in 
position when opened is only superior to its 
stability. When folded for carrying in your car 
this table is 3 feet long, 7 inches wide, by 5 
inches thick, and weighs 19 pounds. The top is 
plenty large enough for four adults and one or 
two small children, being 27x36 inches, and this 
table stands 28 inches high. It is a table you 
will be glad to have in the house all year round 
because it makes an ideal, sturdy table for a 
hundred and one purposes, and will always be 
ready to fold into small space for camping. 
Another Gold Medal camp table is of the roll 
top variety, being made in two sizes but having 
no shelf. The top rolls about the folded legs for 
carrying, making a cylinder that is about 6 
inches in diameter and either 27 or 36 inches in 
length, depending on which size of table top 
you order. The smaller size is 27x36, and the 
larger is 36 inches square. This table weighs 
14 pounds in the smaller size and 18 in the larger. 
If you so desire you may dispense with the legs 
and simply carry the rolled top with you, cutting 
four saplings for legs and two for cross pieces. 
The makers will sell you the top only for this 
purpose if you wish, and the weight for your 

137 



AIJTOCAMPING 

camp table will in that case be but 9 pounds for 
the smaller and 13 for the larger size. 

The Gold Medal "Racine" folding table is 
something like a folding card or sewing table, 
the legs not detaching from the top. It is 28 
inches high and the top is 24x33 inches, the 
weight being 17 pounds. If you want a rather 
large table that will fold conveniently, then the 
Gold Medal Banquet Table may suit your needs. 
It may be had in 30-inch width either 5 or 6 feet 
long, and folds to 4 inches thick. The weight of 
the shorter table is 42, and of the longer 47, 
pounds. These two styles of tables are equipped 
with automatic braces of steel with hardwood 
tops varnished. 

The StoU Camp Table has a strong, rigid steel 
base with shutter collapsible top, all of which 
folds into a neat carrying case that may be used 
as a table cover. It is a most efficient table on 
something of the same construction as the Gold 
Medal table first described, except that the base 
of the StoU is steel. The Puffer-Hubbard out- 
ing table packs 25x6x4 inches, but does not 
embrace the sturdy features of some camp 
tables. The Kay-Dee outing table is metal all 
over and in spite of its "spider web" appearance 
is sturdy enough for all practical camp uses. It 
folds 36x9 by about 2 inches, weighs but 16 
pounds, and has a top capacity when set up of 
27x36 inches. Another metal folding table is 
the Collapsteel, folding to 38x4x3, weighing 
16}^ pounds, with top capacity of 30x38 inches. 
The stability and sturdiness of this table are 
just average. There are several very compact 
138 



AUTOCAMP FURNITURE 

and light-weight tables on the market made from 
wooden legs with canvas top, but to date the 
author has never tried one of these that can be 
recommended. The weight of the dishes on 
the table is so variable, and canvas is bound to 
sag a little, so that it is rather unsatisfactory 
unless some means of supporting the sag of the 
top can be invented. 

Worthy of special consideration is the Stoll 
Suitcase Table. Folded, you apparently have a 
suitcase about 6x18x26 inches. But when 
opened you find, most surprised as you must be, 
a fine camp table with top 26x36 inches, and it 
stands regular table height. The legs and case 
of this outfit are of pressed steel, while the top 
is of seasoned lumber. Inside the suitcase table 
combination you find three compartments for 
carrying your entire set of dishes and your bulk 
food. Brackets at the end support your gasoline 
stove on a level with the table. 

The Carry Kit is a combination of table and 
four chairs, all of which fold for carrying to 
about 3x7x27 inches. This outfit is made of 
steel covered with enamel, and a black art 
leather case encloses the five pieces of the set for 
transportation. 

The Ackles' Prov-Box is a combination table 
and food or provision container. Folded, you 
have a box that straps to the running board, 
13x16x32 inches, and weighing 35 pounds. Un- 
folded, you have a table 32 inches square by 28 
inches high. Inside the folded box may be 
carried all dishes, bulk foods, and the four legs. 

Besides the types of tables mentioned there 
139 



AUTOCAMMNG 

are a few to be recommended that are set up 
right in the car, the Polhemus Colopso being one 
so conveniently attached that diners may sit 
right in their car seats and eat, the people in the 
front seat must of course be to a little inconve- 
nience in turning half around to get at the food 
on the table behind them. Then there is the 
table attached to the side of the car and those 
that are beds to sleep on at night and tables de 
luxe by day. This latter outfit, which is to be 
recommended, is the A. B. C. combination bed- 
table, which does not appear like a bed at all 
when arranged for dining on it, and which at 
night is the foundation for a most excellent bed 
of suspended type, neither bed or table losing 
anything from the double service. This outfit 
does have the canvas top, which is objectionable 
in the small table, but with the high tension of 
the A. B. C. device there is not the same diffi- 
culty of keeping dishes right side up. Some 
excellent dining camp tables utilize the cushions 
of your car as seats, that is, are combination 
tables and seats. Such an outfit is the Burch 
Pullman Table and Chairs. This little outfit 
is of steel and so compact it will fold and go 
under your rear car seat. It is a most sturdy 
and efficient outfit that is safe and sane in the 
highest degree. There are other tables that 
space will not allow presenting. Enough have 
been described for a wide selection. See that a 
poorly constructed table, one that is unsteady 
or spindling, does not go with you. Several 
of the tables described are strong enough to 
hold up two men's weight and they lose nothing 
140 



AUTOCAMP FURNITURE 

in compactness and light weight for their 
strength. 

Folding chairs for your autocamping house- 
keeping are almost too simple to describe. For 
a most compact and simple stool there is nothing 
that will beat my Gold Medal "Racine," which 
weighs but 2 pounds and folds 2 feet long by 
23^ inches square. Almost as good is the same 
make of stool, known simply as the Gold Medal 
Folding Stool. Both of these stools have brown 
canvas seats and of course no backs. The ideal 
camp chair with back is the Gold Medal Camp 
Chair. The Stoll Outing Seat is a stool built on 
the same basic plan as the Stoll Camp Table 
and is most sturdy, weighing but 23^ pounds 
and folding very compactly. 

There are several pneumatic cushions that 
will warrant consideration and from the stand- 
point of comfort, especially when riding long 
hours in your car and more especially when 
folding chairs are not in your outfit, they are 
most excellent. The Metropolitan people make 
a Utility Sportsman's Cushion that is canvas 
covered and may be carried in your pocket 
when deflated. It has a unique "doughnut" 
shape and is as efficient for carrying your weight 
in ease as your pneumatic rubber tires on your 
car. This makes a handy cushion about camp 
for it may be used by bathers as a buoy or life 
preserver, supporting readily 200 pounds. Be- 
sides this air cushion the same firm makes a 
Utility Automobile and Canoe seat in nine 
different sizes, as well as a "seat back" of the 
same type in three various sizes. 

141 



AUTOCAMPING 

There are various folding furnishings that 
may or may not be considered prime essentials 
for motor camping, and mention of these will be 
sufficient. There is the Gold Medal folding 
Camp Cupboard with three shelves, each 9 
inches wide and 18 inches long, weighing but 7 
pounds. The back and sides are covered with 
brown duck and bound and hung with black 
binding. The Burch folding Shelves or Cup- 
board has three shelves 10 by 80 inches long and 
the weight is but 5 pounds. The folded capacity 
of both camp cupboards is about the same, the 
length of the Gold Medal bundle being shorter 
than the Burch, corresponding to the difference 
in the length of shelves. 

Another article in about the same class as the 
folding cupboard is the folding wash stand, and 
this is made by the Burch and Gold Medal 
people in almost the same design. The weight 
of the folding wash basin is but two pounds, the 
frame is hardwood and the folded article is 3 feet 
long by 2 inches square. The basin part is a 
rubberized material. 

In your tent home some kind of wall pockets 
will prove themselves worthwhile, and for this 
reason several tents have these wall pockets sewed 
upon the walls. Our Burch Tourist Tent has two 
pockets, one each side of the rear window, and 
the toilet articles, including mirror, are left 
right here when the tent is taken down and 
packed in its sack. Nothing has ever been 
broken and the wall pocket always is ready 
when the tent is up to serve us with what we 
need. If your tent does not have a wall pocket 
142 




1 Hardy's Campers Friend Table-Utensil Outfit 

2 Suitcase Outfit of eating utensils 

3 Air Bed Rolled, Refrigerator Basket, Gas Stove, Cree Wood Stove^ Double 

Cot, etc. 

4 The A. B. C. Bed Mat stretched for table 

5 Prest-0-Lite Cooking and Lighting Outfit, marble knives, ax, and game getter 

143 



AUTOCAMPING 

permanently attached you may want to procure 
the Stonebridge pocket made of khaki-colored 
material and having 16 compartments, the whole 
affair being 28 W 36 inches and attached by 
strings to any con^^nient part of your tent home, 
or better yet, se^ed fast to your tent wall. 

There are a few tools that will be indispensable 
about camp, and ace among these will be the 
right camp ax. Several years have proven to me 
that the best camp ax ought not to be too light 
in weight, nor should the handle be too short. 
The Marble camp ax with 20-inch handle and 
leather sheath is ideal for autocamping. The 
head is fitted with a claw for nail pulling and 
made of forged steel that pou»di|iig metal tent 
stakes and driving spikes has never battered in 
the least. The blade is 33^x53^ inches, the 
weight 28 ounces, and the handle may be had in 
16- or 20-inch lengths. The cutting ability of 
the tool-steel bit of this efficient autocamp ax is 
a thing that hard use in reasonable hands will 
never alter, as experience proves. The sheath 
is so built that you may carry this ax on your 
belt, which is most convenient when you have 
chopped an armful of wood and have to carry it 
a rather long distance to camp. The Marble 
people build several other styles of camp axes to 
select from, but the regular camp ax with 20- 
inch handle and sheath will be hard to iMit for 
the average autocamper. 

Some kind of a saw ought to be in every auto- 
camper's outfit and I have always carried a little 
compass saw. This is the most compact saw 
made and will serve for all purposes, from 
144 



AUTOCAMP FURNITURE 

cutting small sticks of wood to cutting boards 
and the general utility demanded of it by the 
housekeeper at the roadside home, not least 
being its ability to saw heavy meat bones. The 
compass saw is slender and you should never 
take a cheap one, as the best will be found none 
too good. Any hardware store will show you a 
variety of these saws. A small handsaw might 
be carried, but the compass saw will do practic- 
ally as many kinds of work and is far more com- 
pact and easy to pack in safety to the teeth and 
to other things that might be harmed by the 
steel saw teeth. The ideal saw, whatever its 
kind, will have the hard steel construction that 
will permit you to saw off nails and bolts with- 
out injury as well as cut wood. Such saws may 
be had in the compass or hand saw variety. 

Outside of the regular culinary knives you 
will need a general purpose knife. There are 
two that the writ3r has found excellent and 
either of them will serve you well. One is the 
Marble Ideal with 6-inch blade, and the other is 
of the same make, the Woodcraft knife with 
43^-inch blade. Sheaths should be kept on 
knives without folding blades. The Ideal and 
Woodcraft may be had in leather or staghorn 
handles, and the Ideal comes in various sizes, 
with blade from 5 to 8 inches. For the hard 
work required of a knife about camp any folding 
jack-knife is liable to prove most unsatisfactory, 
and one of the best that I could buy with a 
4-inch blade that locked open today lies in my 
duffle junk pile, discarded after one trip because 
the locking device broke and the pivot allowed 
10 145 



AUTOCAMPING 

the blade to wobble. This was entirely my fault, 
but the autocamper needs a knife that will stand 
hard use or prying and chopping small limbs, as 
well as dressing game meat, cutting rope, making 
shavings to start the fire in the tent stove, and 
so on without end. 

Some good wet-proof match box must be with 
you always, and matches kept in it as fast as used. 
A nickel shaving stick box with screw top, or two 
brass shotgun shells telescoped — one being 12- 
and the other 10-gauge — will serve very well. 
The best device will be the Marble water-proof 
match box, made of seamless drawn brass 
heavily nickeled, with rubber gasket in the 
cover. The size of this match safe is about that 
of the 10-gauge shot shell. 

A small spade or shovel may prove handy in 
camp, and usually a small stove shovel will be 
suflBcient. This will be used for scooping dirt 
into the bottom of your tent wood stove before 
building the fire, for trenching about the tent in 
wet weather, and perhaps digging a place for a 
camp fireplace, or even for digging your car 
wheels out of a bad place in the road. A miner's 
shovel is excellent. A shovel with round pointed 
blade will be much better than a square one. 

Rope for various purposes, from a clothes- 
line to tying odds and ends securely upon the 
car, will be found necessary and nothing can 
beat sash cord for this purpose. It is closely 
woven and very strong. Wire will likewise find 
a place for itself about camp in most unexpected 
places. For this purpose copper or annealed 
wire only is right, because it will not rust. 
146 



AUTOCAMP FURNITURE 

An assortment of nails, screws, staples, hooks, 
bolts, and nuts, and a few odds and ends of 
hardware that have a more or less direct bearing 
on possible conditions that may arise should be 
carried in a can with tight fitting cover. Always 
carry a strong pull-out rope. 

A liberal supply of mosquito netting must be 
included in your outfit for warm-weather camp- 
ing in many sections, unless your tent is lined 
with some kind of insect barrier. With children 
in the party the mosquito netting will be doubly 
important and frequently prove invaluable. 

One of the finest articles that the author has 
ever used about his autocamp, filling the purpose 
of many things all in one, is the combination 
running board box, camp cook, and dining table, 
known as Hardy's Campers' Friend. As a 
running board box the Campers' Friend measures 
9x103/2x33 and is convertible in less than two 
minutes into a camp cook and dining table, 
having a top 263/^x33 inches, with two spacious 
shelves underneath for holding the food. 

Included in this running board box, which is 
quickly converted into a table with metal legs, 
are the following utensils in oval shape made 
from heavy tin metal: 

1 3-qt. Camp Kettle 
1 43^-qt. Camp Kettle 
1 6-qt. Camp Kettle 

1 2-qt. Coffee Pot 

2 Fry Pans, lOj^xTxlf^ inches 

1 Gasoline Kampkook Two-Burner 
Stove 

147 



AUTOCAMPING 

The covers for the kettles and fry pans may 
be used for plates, the larger kettle will serve 
for a dish pan, and the whole outfit has a very 
compact nesting arrangement. With the Camp- 
ers' Friend, on special order may be had a 
galvanized iron service box, for carrying a 
dining service like plates, cups, spoons, knives, 
forks, can opener and other small articles. At 
night the lids of the Campers' Friend may be 
dropped and locked so that foodstuffs kept in- 
side are safe in a roadside cupboard from squir- 
rels or other rodents. A camp oven may be 
had with this outfit also. 

A thermos bottle will be found convenient for 
autocamping at times, but not nearly as much 
as you may think. Not so long ago the author 
carried his thermos bottle with hot coffee into 
his duck blind and on cold auto trips, but of late 
we have found that the little gasoline or gas 
stove serves much better. If you do want a 
thermos bottle make sure you get the improved 
type with steel bottle instead of glass. 

There are other things that will come in the 
range of autocamp furniture, fixtures, and 
furnishings, part of which may have been 
covered in the chapter on camp cookery and 
utensils, the chapters on beds, tents, stoves, 
refrigerator basket, hunting and fishing equip- 
ment, and others. 

Be sure to look well after the equipment of 
your car in case of emergency, especially chains — 
often one or two may be required for front 
wheels, pull-out devices, emergency mud-hooks, 
and accessories. More will be found on this 
148 



AUTOCAMP FURNITURE 

subject in the chapter on packing your auto- 
mobile for autocamping. 

Packets of toilet tissue are now specially made 
for the tourist, coming packed in a neat card- 
board case, each holding 50 sheets in so compact 
a space that it fits into any pocket. Many auto- 
campers prefer paper towels and the Onliwon 
brand is excellent. 

A portable camp phonograph known as the 
Melody, plays any 10- or 12-inch disc records. 
It weighs 19 pounds, and is 8x13x15 inches in 
K size. 



149 



Chapter X 
Camp Illumination 

THE matter of lighting your roadside camp 
at night is one that may not seem so very 
important. The fact is that in practical ex- 
perience you will find you need the autocamp 
better lighted than any other. A hunter's camp 
may need but the campfire, for weary muscles 
and heavy eyes are "dead to the world" soon 
after dark. And the ordinary vacation tent 
camp in some stationary location where you 
may spend a week or two rooted to the identical 
spot may not need much illumination. 

But five straight months of autocamping 
teach you many things, as indeed less will do, 
and one of them is that you must have adequate 
light at night. For one thing, a roadside camp is 
more a literal home than any other style of camp. 
Children may need to be undressed and cared 
for after dark, mending and sewing and corres- 
pondence must be done at times. And there 
are a hundred and one things you leave for the 
evenings. Through the day you are touring 
leisurely through beautiful country, or country 
that must be gone through to get to your destina- 
tion, or you may be camping now and then for a 
day in the same spot. This most often happens 
when you have landed at some public autocamp- 
150 



CAMP ILLUMINATION 

ing park or are in country where a several-days' 
camp is necessary for you to "see the country." 
Anyhow you will be busy days, and at night you 
will do what you might be doing back home. 
In a several-days' camp on the same spot you will 
likely have "company callers" in the evening, 
or some part of the equipment will need attention 
for proper functioning through the day, or may- 
be there are just plain magazines to read. Any- 
how, you need an adequate light. 

The most simple camp illumination is the 
candle and if you do not care for the dingy, 
flickering beams it throws, then get some kind of 
real camp illumination. Especially on a wet, 
stormy night when the wind blows, then if ever 
you will be sorry for the cheerless little candle 
light, and wish you had a brilliant lamp that 
would laugh at the gloom and lift your dampened 
spirits a bit. After a strenuous day on the road 
there is no better change and tonic than a lively 
card game in a brightly lighted camp. I realize 
that you may have other diversions, and maybe 
you may take along one of those camp phono- 
graphs for evening entertainment, but at any 
rate the bright camp is better on your, eyes and 
the whole psychology of good illumination in 
camp along the roadside is the same the little 
country grocery man confronts. You know 
whether you like to go in and trade at the 
brightly illuminated store or the dingy counter. 

If you use candles be sure to get only plumber's 
candles, which are nearly two inches in diameter 
and only about six inches high. They last a long 
time and being large they do not tumble over 

151 



AUTOCAMPING 

easily. The better way to do, provided you use 
candles, is to take a folding Stonebridge candle 
lantern with you. This gives you fire protection 
that would be rated by underwriters as much 
superior to the exposed candles, and also allows 
carrying this simple light about camp. If you 
are sure you will retire after dark, and if no 
children need attention and feeding in the eve- 
ning, and there are no magazines to read or 
letters to write, then candles will serve. Some of 
my friends claim they prefer candles because 
they hark back to pioneer days, the days that 
grand-dad loved. 

Some veteran woodsmen and autocampers 
insist on carrying a kerosene lantern. Kerosene 
oil in any form ought to be put on the amend- 
ment prohibition list for autocamping. In the 
first place, gasoline will take its place better and 
you always have that with you — unless you 
drive a steamer. In the next place a drop of 
kerosene may taint a whole basket of food. 
Either the kerosene lamp or lantern, or the gaso- 
line lamps with tender mantles, are a nuisance 
to pack and carry. They are not essentially 
autocamping equipment, rated from the stand- 
point of utility. 

The ideal light for the autocamper is the 
acetylene gas light produced by the handy little 
Prest-0-Lite gas tank. The gas does not have 
to be manufactured or generated by the user. 
The tanks are already filled when purchased. 
When empty it is a simple matter to exchange 
them for a full one at any of the thousands of 
wayside garages and exchange stations through- 
152 



CAMP ILLUMINATION 

out the United States and Canada, at a nominal 
charge for the gas only. 

The strong features of this light are its in- 
tensity and mellowness. It more nearly ap- 
proaches actual sunlight in quality than any 
other artificial illuminant. And of prime im- 
portance to the camper is the fact that it is soot- 
less, odorless, and smokeless, as well as easily 
transportable. 

Prest-0-Lite gas is really a doul^le-duty fuel. 
Its importance as fuel for cooking is as great as its 




No camp illumination is more satisfactory than the little Prest-O-Lite tank 

outfit near the centre of picture 

153 



AUTOCAMPING 

value as a lighting agent. And both may be 
done simultaneously from the same tank at the 
will of the operator. There is hardly any article 
of autocamping equipment more simple and 
efficient than the stem and burner attachment 
for lighting, unless it be the little Prest-0-Lite 
Stove, which may be folded in the palm of the 
hand. This may be set up anywhere — inside 
the tent in rainy weather — and takes up very 
little space. A full meal may be readily cooked 
upon it in a very short time, as the flame is 
intensely hot. It is connected to the tank by 
rubber tubing. 

The tanks are equipped with double control 
valves, one for lighting and one for cooking. A 
union for connecting the Pocket Stove is pro- 
vided, while the stem and burner are attached 
direct to the other control valve. This arrange- 
ment permits either cooking or lighting at the 
same time or separately, as desired. Complete 
control of the gas flow to each attachment is 
thus assured. The stem and burner for lighting 
requires less gas pressure than the Pocket Stove 
and in operation the needle valve for the former 
is not opened so widely. 

The Prest-0-Lite outfit is simplicity itself. 
There is nothing complicated about it and it is 
ruggedly built, with nothing to get out of order 
or break loose. The stem and burner and the 
little Pocket Stove, Qx\}/2 inches, may be carried 
anywhere in your duffle bags, and if you are 
married to the pack basket, like the author, 
they will find a safe repository there when 
touring. 

154 



{ 



CAMP ILLUMINATION 

The small Prest-0-Lite tank can be carried 
under the rear seat, or on the running board, or 
right in the pack basket itself. Gas is the 100 
percent fuel and the perfect light. You cannot 
get around that, and with the Prest-0-Lite 
outfit, made purposely for autocamping, there is 
no reason for using any other kind of illumina- 
tion. Using this fuel for light also enables one 
to dispense with the less compact equipment in 
favor of the tiny Pocket Stove. Where cars are 
already fitted out with this well-known auto- 
mobile lighting equipment the gas may be piped 
direct by means of a length of rubber tubing 
direct from the tank on the running board to 
wherever it is needed for cooking or light. 

Another type of acetylene light is the Justrite, 
offered in half a dozen styles. These lanterns 
are operated on gas generated from carbide, 
which the autocamper himself carries and loads 
into his lantern as needed. An excellent lantern 
of this type gives a 20-candle-power light, burn- 
ing 3 to 4 hours upon 3 ounces of carbide. The 
flame may be turned high or low, and there is a 
powerful bull's-eye lens and reflector. 

An electric lamp may be attached by a long 
cord to your car battery, but at best it will 
prove most inadequate for really lighting camp 
and may prove too big a drain on the storage 
battery if used at long intervals. After you 
have used a powerful gas light to make camp 
almost bright as day everyw^here — not just in 
the spot light of an electric light from the car 
battery — you will wonder why you used any- 
thing else. Some campers use their trouble 
155 



AUTOCAMPING 

light, on its extension cord, for camp illumina- 
tion, and this is fairly successful, as also is the 
spotlight from its position on the windshield. 
Personally I prefer a good flashlight to any bulb 
lighted by car battery current, the flashlight 
being more portable and useful. 

The use of flashlights by the camper is as old 
as the invention of this hand electric torch. 
The author completely wore out a three-cell 
flashlight with bull's-eye lens after three seasons 
of camping several years ago, having to mend it 
with a copper wire on his last trip. Promptly 
another three-cell flashlight was procured and 
this has been carried faithfully until this past 
season. Last year I discovered the ideal auto- 
camper's hand electric light, which is the battery- 
less flashlamp distributed by Elssesser and Watts. 
The trade name for this efficient hand electric 
torch is Electro Automate "Batteryless Flash- 
lamp." 

Anyhow, at first use it will be disappointing to 
the autocamper, for it is a good deal like learning 
to ride a bicycle, you have to get used to it. 
Since this flashlamp does away forever with that 
eternal nuisance of carrying extra batteries for 
the old-style flashlight, a blessing that falls 
upon camping like rain on a parched meadow, 
its slight disadvantages are counterbalanced. 
Once you get accustomed to the operation of the 
batteryless flashlamp it will be like riding a 
bicycle, you won't know you are doing it, the 
finger action necessary will be automatic and 
unconscious. 

In a recent autocamping adventure, when the 

15G 



I 



CAMP ILLUMINATION 

Missus and the author left our main camp along 
the roadside to motor to a black bass river to 
get fish for breakfast, they were caught in the 
dark with an most unexpected blowout. Right 
there the efficiency of the little batteryless 
flashlamp in the hands of my wife won an ever- 
lasting place in our autocamping equipment. 
Although she had never tried operating the 
lamp for any length of time, it proved no trick to 
keep a steady, strong beam of illumination 
playing on my work of changing tires. The 
familiar little buzz-buzz-zip of the little battery- 
less electric lamp is bound to be a happy sound 
to the autocamper when a hand light is called 
for about camp. 

In place of the ordinary battery in the or- 
dinary flashlight, there is in this improved type 
a small electric dynamo, so that pressing the 
finger lever repeatedly operates the electric 
generator and lights the bulb. You push the 
lever against the body of the flashlamp, a spring 
throwing it out again. It is an easy matter to 
keep up a steady, slow lever movement that will 
make your electric dynamo give a constant light. 
This little batteryless affair will not give the 
intensity of illuminatin afforded by the big three- 
cell flashlight with bull's-eye, but it will give 
plenty of light for the work expected of a hand 
lamp about camp. It takes up very little space, 
being easily enclosed in the palm of the hand, 
and is wonderfully well constructed. The case 
is water-proof aluminum, and the builders claim 
it will work under water, although personally 
I have not tried its submarine qualities. But I 
157 



AUTOCAMPING 

do know that rain storms do not have the 
slightest effect upon its efficiency. 

Again I want to warn you that you will not be 
impressed with the little batteryless lamp when 
you first see it and try to operate its finger lever, 
but once you have actually put it to the test of 
actual camp use, you will not go again without 
it. Many times two people will need flashlights 
at the same time for sundry purposes, and the 
safe thing will be to carry one old-style flashlight 
and one batteryless flashlamp. Even if you run 
out of a battery for one, you will never lack 
light from the other. 

A somewhat different type of batteryless flash- 
light is known as the Magnet Lamp. This 
operates by means of a permanent magnet and 
multipolar armature, giving an excellent beam of 
illumination. This lamp is worked by giving 
a chain a quick pull, repeating this operation 
frequently. While this lamp is excellent and 
requires no battery, it does have the slight dis- 
advantage of requiring both hands to operate it, 
one to hold it and the other to pull the chain. 
To facilitate its operation, however, a cord is 
attached so that this lamp may be hung about 
the neck, requiring then but one hand to operate 
the chain. 

Remember that a camp along the roadside is 
I^retty conspicuous when lights are displayed 
inside, and especially amusing and interesting 
to passers-by are your moving silhouettes. 
Which is only caution for you to turn the lights 
dim when it comes time for getting ready for 
bed. No matter what the material or color of 
158 



CAMP ILLUMINATION 

your tent, this same custom should be followed. 
You will find the white canvas tent illuminates 
much more easily than any other color of canvas, 
which is true of the other tent material as well, 
for the white walls reflect the light all about, 
while dark walls absorb a great deal of it. 



159 



Chapter XI 
Making the Youngsters Comfortable 

NOT so very many years ago it was not 
good practice to take children along on 
travel vacation trips, if indeed on any 
**adult vacationing," and there was a most 
popular notion stalking abroad that the kid 
ought to be at home in the nursery, especially 
at night. Moreover youngsters were considered 
a general nuisance anyhow. Who wanted to 
bother with kids on a vacation trip.'^ The fact 
is that vacationing as we had to do it a few years 
ago about precluded the children, and so they 
were left at home. 

Autocamping is essentially a family vacation 
institution. The children need the change, the 
fresh air, the healthful free life of camp as much 
as, or more than, adults. They enjoy the trip and 
it is for them a liberal education. Besides you 
feel most like having a real vacation with the 
whole family enjoying all the things that you 
are enjoying. Many is the time I have wished 
in my heart of hearts that Mother and the 
Kiddies could be with me in some remote "stag 
camp," and enjoy the health-restoring beauty 
of landscape, air, and sky that I was selfishly 
enjoying while they were away back home in 
the same humdrum atmosphere every day. 

And then suddenly came autocamping as the 
160 



THE YOUNGSTERS COMFORTABLE 

ideal family vacation. This is one reason why 
motor gypsying is bound to remain popular 
year after year. It is something on which the 
whole American family has pounced as a drown- 
ing man grasps for the rope. This is because it is a 
natural and a right and a very beneficial means 
of vacationing. It does not tear you away from 
home ties, for you take home with you. It does 
not require an enormous expense to entertain 
your family at hotels and transport them by 
steam train, for your car is your cross-country, 
transcontinental vehicle, and your tent is your 
hostelry. Autocamping presents a thrill a 
minute to every age and occupation. It is the 
easiest place to take your children. 

Some of our recent trips have been made with 
our baby, but six months' old when the first trip 
was initiated, and she not only did as well, but 
better than she had been doing at home. She 
gained weight, slept nights like a hunter, and 
was the most jolly member of the party. With 
us for the past several seasons also has been 
another youngster four years older, who did not 
go autocamping at quite so early an age, but who 
likes motor camping to pie any time. What is 
more, the outings in the open have done them 
both a great deal of good. 

I have to thank our family physician, him- 
self a man who never camps less than two or 
three whole months of the year with his whole 
family, never having stopped even for the 
youngest, for starting us right from the begin- 
ning. When our first babe came it seemed to me 
that the good times the Missus and I had had in 
11 161 



AUTOCAMPING 

the open would have to be postponed indef- 
initely. Somehow I had more than average 
reverence for the medical man and the corner 
drug emporium. It appeared like taking too 
big a chance to autocamp far away from quassia, 
and turpentine, and Lady Jane Gray's (or some- 
body's) Worm Cure, cucumber seeds, soothing 
syrups, paregoric, ipecac, nitre, croup cure, 
Save-The-Baby Preparations in general, not to 
mention modified milk and a few others. 

I'll admit that emergencies may arise on any 
trip, and the Security First-Aid Kit will take 
care of that, while the chapter covering the 
subject, I trust, will form something of a guide- 
post. Preparation for and prevention of infantile 
troubles will be mainly a matter for prior con- 
sideration when selecting your outfit, and the 
Security First-Aid Kit will take care of ordinary 
emergencies and slight ills. 

But it must be fully understood, as any out- 
doorman physician — and you ought not to have 
any other species and likely haven't — will tell 
you, that a doctor or a drug store can do very 
little for an infant compared with the tonic of 
living in the outdoors. Medical science is pretty 
limited with the youngster, and about all it can 
do is to start it off with a yell in its lungs and a 
knot on its navel cord, the rest comes from 
proper feeding, clothing, and habits. These the 
mother can take care of in camp along the road 
almost as well as at home with all the appliances 
at her command to make a real home by the 
wayside. 

The clothing for very young children will be 

162 







1 Cree Tent Wood Stove and Refrigerator Basket keep Baby happy 

2 Inside Burch Tourist Auto Tent cozy as at home 

163 



AUTOCAMPING 

exactly the same as at home, and on the trip 
they will be dressed just as when the girl takes 
them for their afternoon ride in the reed baby 
buggy. Your tent can be kept as warm and 
cozy as you like, it can be illuminated as well as 
your home, the beds can be selected that will be 
equal to any stationary four-poster built, and 
the cooking and feed can be taken care of just as 
well as anywhere. The gas, gasoline, or wood 
stove will prepare food, the refrigerator basket 
will preserve it, and there is no essential need of 
the human infant that you can't have with you. 
Nor will the children spoil the autocamping trip 
by their presence, in fact they will enhance it. 
Invariably we have found them to have better 
appetites, better manners, and better nights in 
our roadside camps, than at home. The fresh, 
pure, forest- and plains-scented air is the secret. 

Makers of the best outing clothing recognize 
the fact that today children are camping with 
their parents and so there are several outfits 
made for the youngster of four or five years 
and older. The Duxbak outfit is about ideal, 
and more is said about this in the chapter on 
clothing. 

Adults may exist on canned or powdered milk, 
but children ought to have nothing but fresh 
cow's milk. This is no more a problem with the 
handy refrigerator baskets, for milk and butter 
and other food may be kept in your camp as well 
as in your kitchen. There is no difference on 
that score in living at home and on the road. 
The chapter on keeping food fit has explained 
the ejfficiency of the refrigerator basket in detail 
164 



THE YOUNGSTERS COMFORTABLE 

from our actual use of this device for a long 
period of time on hot-season trips. 

Your camp may be kept as dry and warm and 
cozy as your home with the folding wood stove 
of ample capacity that will go under the rear 
seat and take up less than half the available 
space, but that goes into the tent with four legs, 
eight feet of pipe, and even a lid on top of the 
same identical size as that of the ordinary 
kitchen range. This has been very fully ex- 
plained in the chapter on stoves for various 
needs of autocamping. 

And the children can be slept on the best of 
beds in your roadside tentitome. Our babe has 
slept in the rear seat of the car, in her Gordon 
Motor Crib in the tonneau of the car, and with 
her mother on the Metropolitan air bed. The 
air bed is the best place of all, and for the purpose 
ought not to be put upon the ground unless there 
are no damp air drafts that come in under your 
car or tent walls. Tents with windows and with 
ground cloths sewed in may be closed up so well 
that the bed on the ground is all safe for the 
baby, but otherwise it had better be raised on a 
car bed or folding cot. During a teething time 
our youngster never awoke once during a night 
after she was fed at 10 o'clock, sleeping on the 
air bed, through a period of fourteen consecutive 
nights. This proved the air bed ideal for young- 
sters of birthdayless ages, speaking of the annual 
celebration of the natal day. The main thing 
is to keep children warm. They are like little 
Indians and sleep well in the open because 
Mother Nature meant that all of us should do it 
165 



AUTOCAMPING 

that way and the child is closer to the intentions 
of Nature than '^(rfplder folks. The Kenwood 
baby blankets are tne very highest order of bed 
coverings for baby. 

There is just one and the only real limitation 
that the very small infant will impose, and that 
is the matter of distance you may go in a day, 
naturally the little one must not be overtired 
and shorter trips are advised. We frequently 
do 80 to a 100 miles in a single day with our 
babe, and have since she was eight months' old 
and somewhat acclimated to autocamping, 
having once gone 132 miles in a day. Children 
will sleep a great deal on the trip and will 
thus counteract weary muscles and exhausted 
nerves with Nature's best restorer. However 
200 miles a day is entirely too much to expect 
any child to stand, and most adults too, if you 
are out for more than just a few days at a time. 

Children will drink a great deal more than 
adults and more frequently on an outing trip 
and here again the refrigerator stands as a 
necessity of first rank. Roadside water may or 
may not be pure, and in some sections it is 
dangerous, while in others unobtainable, hence 
grade A milk from the bovine ought to be on 
hand, ice cold and refreshing in the your Hawk- 
eye basket for the youngsters. If grade A cow's 
milk cannot be obtained in sparsely settled 
sections, then choose a farmer who has a clean 
barn, a neat appearing home, and clean cows. 
This is really easier than it sounds, for you can 
keep your eyes open and select just the farmer 
you want from likely hundreds of farms that 
166 



I 



THE YOUNGSTERS COMFORTABLE 

you will pass. Where milk is unobtainable, 
then there are some good manufactured drinks, 
but I will not recommend any single one of them. 
Our better plan has been to boil all questionable 
water in milkless country and put it in the 
refrigerator basket to pass out cool and re- 
freshing when needed to the children. Of course 
in desert country, a place that children should 
be taken under advisement only, the drink 
proposition is another consideration. 

Remember that children's legs are short and 
that they will tire excessively if dangling from 
the seat. The simple remedy is to pack the floor 
of the tonneau with equipment where they will 
sit and upon which they may rest their feet, 
but do not raise this "floor" so high it cramps 
them. It is easy to make it just right, which is 
the only way to autocamp anyhow. My wife 
says that I am something of an old maid, and 
maybe I am. But I believe in going right in 
spite. . . ! 

In the case of a bottle baby, we know by two 
hundred years of experience that everything 
must be kept most sanitary and dust-proof. 
Bottles, nipples, basin in which to heat the 
milk over a canned-heat fire by the road; every- 
thing must be carried in the most sanitary 
manner, which is simply another way of saying 
that the refrigerator basket must be a part of a 
really successful autocamping trip. We pack 
the bottles and glass jars with modified milk 
into the basket tightly, wedging clean dish 
towels where there is any space, and there they 
carry under a strapped and locked dust-proof 
167 



AUTOCAMPING 

lid inside a metal and insulated container, the 
autocamper's ice box. It is always best to have 
changes of clean bottles and nipples so babe 
may have a sterilized one for each feeding when 
actually touring. 

The plea that baby ought to be left home with 
the nurse because of the tiresome task of carry- 
ing her on the lap is dispelled by the use of the 
Gordon Motor Crib, which appears more satis- 
factory to me than a hammock affair, giving less 
jar and throw from the jolting of the car. Here 
likewise the baby may sleep a large part of the 
time when the car is moving. 

A rubberized bag should be taken to keep wet 
changes in just as you would do on a shopping 
trip with your infant. To keep off flies and 
insects plenty of mosquito netting should be in 
the outfit for making baby comfortable, although 
this will depend entirely on the country and 
conditions you encounter. Nobody will take a 
small child into country infested by any nui- 
sance, of course. 

Baby's bath is taken by our Cree Common 
Sense wood stove, just as at home, with a Gold 
Medal folding wash basin handy. Other es- 
sentials will be soap, wash cloth and towel, 
talcum powder (Stearate of Zinc is by far the 
best), boric acid solution, bottle of goose oil, 
and absorbent cotton a great plenty. 

A whole chapter might be devoted to the 
benefit that an autocamp trip will be to interest 
children in Natural History, Woodcraft, and the 
Simple Life. Always the children like to take 
part in your good times, fishing and bathing 
1G8 



THE YOUNGSTERS COMFORTABLE 

especially. Twice our oldest daughter, when 
autocamping with us near water, tumbled head 
first into a lake in spite of careful watching, but 
I would no more think of leaving the children 
home because of perils like this than of staying 
off the highway because of automobile accidents 
running into epidemics. 



169 



Chapter XII 
The Autocamper's Castle, the Trailer 

THE camping trailer is indeed the auto- 
camper's castle. And it is more. It is his 
ever present domicile. It is his movable 
home on two or four wheels, preferably two. 
With a trailer tagging along unnoticed in the 
rear, the motor camper simply forgets that he is 
camping and just tours the country. His car 
is free from duffle and equipment. Then when 
meal time or night appears, he remembers 
that he is camping as well as touring, for right 
behind him has followed his home. 

The autocamping trailer does more than kill 
the proverbial two birds with one stone. You 
can literally say it kills six birds with one stone. 
That is, it solves in one single unit of equipment 
the problem of tent, beds, stoves, food trans- 
portation, furnishings, and illumination. 

With a trailer you are as independent as a 
feudal baron. You are lord of creation. You 
can camp and live anywhere that a road ribbons 
the topography of the civilized world. And 
like the baron you have everything about you 
needed for making your life comfortable and 
enjoyable. More than that, you have easily 
eliminated a bugaboo that haunts the car camper 
sometimes, the bugbear of packing. Finding 
just the place to carry everything in the ordinary 
170 



THE AUTOCAMPER'S CASTLE 

automobile reduces itself to the ability of your 
ingenuity, to your being a Handy-Andy. Pack- 
ing the equipment upon your trailer is a matter 
of scientific precision, for everything is builded 
for just the place it is located — both when trail- 
ing and when making your camp — and you carry 
everything in its appointed place and put it to its 
foreordained purpose. 

Comparing camping with car equipment and 
with the trailer is a thing that every autocamper 
does. It is right that he should. If the trailer 
was far and above the car outfit in every way, 
then the former would crowd the latter out 
exactly as the railroads crushed canals. But 
neither the equipment you carry in your car is 
perfect, nor is the trailer; so the count is about 
even. For certain trips I have found one better 
than the other, but it all depends on where you 
are going, when you are going, why you are 
going, with whom you are going, and a dozen 
other things. Reduced down to the naked 
facts, it seems to me that the autocamper with a 
car outfit has sort of a "homemade" outfit, 
while the trailer autocamper has a "ready-made" 
outfit. The day will never pass when fifty out of 
a hundred will not prefer to think and plan out 
their own outfits, while the other fifty will be- 
lieve that the men who devised the trailer knew 
a great deal more than they, and so this class 
prefer the autocamper's castle. It is exactly 
like two men who love dogs; one insists on 
training his own to the ways he wants the 
canine to follow, while the other believes that a 
professional trainer can do it better. And so 
171 



AUTOCAMPING 

one autocamper believes that he can best tell 
what he needs, while the other is mighty glad 
they make trailers all ready and waiting for 
him to hitch behind his car. 

There is no quarrel between the trailer and 
the car outfit. At its hottest it is merely a little 
friction caused by a difference of opinion. The 
fact is that for some people and some trips one 
is right and best, but generally the other Ls like- 
wise feasible. This matter of choice puts spice 
into autocamping. If it were without thrills, 
like putting a penny in the slot and drawing a 
stick of gum, then the avocation of autocamping 
would lose most of its fascination. Variety is 
the spice of autocamping. 

Just as a mule can pull a much heavier load 
than it can possibly carry, so the auto will take 
along your, outfit on the trailer behind the car 
with much less labor than in the car, pound for 
pound considered. A load of 750 pounds in 
your car in the line of outfit would be folly; 
but the same load will follow your car without 
a perceptible increase in gasoline or tire cost. 
The pull needed to haul such a load on a trailer 
over a level road will be but 20 pounds. Your 
car will never seem to know it has a burden 
behind, and the lug of the trailer up hills and 
down will be hardly noticeable. 

Figured from the standpoint of burden to 
your car, the trailer and an outfit approaching 
the completeness of the camping trailer and 
carried in the car are about even. That is, you 
load upon your car beds for four to six people, 
tent to accommodate them, food and furnishings 
172 




^ The Kampkar in public camp ground A The Adams Motorbungalo 

2 Kamprite Trailer 4 Livabout Camping Car 

5 Kitchenette opened on Motorbungalo 
173 



AUTOCAMPING 

and you will do well if you keep the weight 
down to 400 pounds for everything. All the 
equipment with the trailer, and the unpowered 
car itself, will weigh 750 pounds. And it is a 
well-established fact that your car can pull the 
750 pounds at least as easily, if not more so, 
than the same car under the same conditions 
can carry 400 pounds. In short, there is little 
difference from the standpoint of load on your 
motor whether you ask it to handle a complete 
car outfit or a complete trailer. 

We have found the Adams Motorbungalo a 
de luxe camping trailer outfit, with: two double 
spring beds and mattresses; a complete kitchen- 
ette including ice box refrigerator, folding 
kitchen table, shelf, holders for utensils and 
dishes, water tank, gasoline stove, and plenty 
of room to carry all bulk food; roomy wardrobe 
with hanger rod; screened and curtained win- 
dows to the number of five; and an absolutely 
water-tight roof. Speaking of the roof, this is a 
frame of light wood over which is placed 10- 
ounce heavy oil duck, and topped with Fabrikoid, 
much like the automobile tops of the best cars. 
From each side of the top extend leatherette 
curtains, or flies, this giving double protection of 
canvas and leatherette over your head. 

The beds counterbalance with the roof of 
this outfit, so that when opening the double 
spring beds their weight lifts up the roof; and 
vice versa, when shutting up this camp the weight 
of the roof in settling down helps close the beds. 
Although there are small adjustable braces that 
may be let down at each corner of the extended 

174 



THE AUTOCAMPER'S CASTLE 

camp, still this is not necessary under ordinary 
conditions, so substantial is this outfit. It is 
braced in place securely by a foot extending 
down from the draw-pull and by the rear step. 
This camp can be unhitched and completely set 
up in five minutes anywhere. It is automatic 
simplicity itself. Just step inside, push out on 
the upright beds, and as they easily swing to 
horizontal your camp is automatically made 
entire. 

The 3-f oot-square door that opens the kitchen- 
ette and wardrobe, slips off its hinges and be- 
comes a camp table of regular height. The 
kitchenette may be opened from inside or out, 
whether you are trailing this outfit on the road 
and need to put in provisions, or have it erected 
in camp. Over the kitchenette and wardrobe 
there is a triangular-shaped shelf three feet on a 
side. The sides of this trailer are steel and the 
bottom is matched wood. The rear door has 
two panels, a screened window, and may be 
locked from inside or out. 

The hitch of the Motorbungalo is instantane- 
ous ball and socket of the best type. Wheels 
are 30x33^ inches, the bearings are roller type, 
and there are excellent steel springs. This out- 
fit attaches to the frame of your car, being 
secured by a rear bumper bolted by two braces 
to your car frame. The body is 84 inches wide 
and the sides 13 inches. The complete camp 
erected makes a shelter 9x12 feet. The complete 
bungalow weighs about 850 pounds. 

When on the road this outfit rides almost as 
high as the top of your automobile, but the 
175 



AUTOCAMPING 

front end is V-shaped and hence does not neces- 
sarily give more wind resistance than a trailer 
packing down lower. It is a camp that you may 
depend upon as dust-proof, bug-proof, and dry. 
Recently the author and his family, including 
the two small children, slept in this outfit 
during a period of rainy weather that lasted over 
a month and all but took the joy out of auto- 
camping. However, day and night, we ate, 
lived, and slept in a bone-dry place inside 
this outfit. 

The Motorbungalo Junior is a lighter model 
made by the Adams firm, folding down flat and 
compact, but having only a canvas roofing over 
your head, as do all other standard trailers. It 
has the kitchenette, wardrobe space, screened 
windows, and two comfortable double spring 
beds. There is a curtain arrangement so that 
you can divide camp into two bedchambers if 
you like. The basic trailer is the same as for 
the regular Motorbungalo, which was originally 
designed by Glenn H. Curtiss and is today 
manufactured in the original airplane factories 
of the inventor. Both styles of Motorbungalo 
trailers may be stripped of their camping outfits 
and used as a commercial trailer the year round 
when you don't want to camp. The body has a 
drop tail gate. 

The Douglas De Luxe trailer is most sur- 
prising, being a sort of cabinet on a chassis, 
which cabinet tips off to open up into a most 
complete roadside home. When this cabinet 
affair is opened out you have a shed tent 8x12 
feet, with beds hanging against the wall, in the 
176 



THE AUTOCAMPER'S CASTLE 

daytime out of your way. The tenting is of 
10-ounce duck and there are two screened and 
storm-proof windows. Now for the surprise! 
What was once the floor and sides of the trailer 
stands upright in camp as a wall of wood having 
in its center a complete camp table, dresser, and 
kitchen cabinet. The beds with this outfit are 
single, one above the other on a frame attached 
to the wall of the room. What will they build 
next.? That's all you can gasp. 

And the Carefree Folding Tourist Home looks 
like the answer to the above question. This is 
neither a camping trailer exactly, nor is it really 
a camping car body. You might call it a camp- 
ing unit, which may be attached to the running 
board of your car, or to the rear of a coupe or 
runabout, or carried in a small truck. When 
folded you find a cabinet of wood that is about 
9x40x54 inches. The front of the cabinet hinges 
up horizontally to form part of the camp roof, a 
shed tent comes forth to make the rest of your 
camp home, and there is a cot bed 4x6 feet, with 
plenty of dressing and living room besides. 

The models of this outfit for runabout, coupe, 
and small truck are somewhat different in shape 
and more elaborate in construction than the 
running board model above described. For this 
model we find a cabinet 24x44x45 inches. The 
rear end of the cabinet hinges down flat with the 
bottom, and the top hinges to an angle of about 
45 degrees, thus forming part of the roof. A 
canvas tent appears to make the rest of the camp 
right on the rear of your automobile or truck. 
There is a table with this outfit about 27x44 
12 177 



AUTOCAMPING 

inches in size. The bed is 40x78 inches. Tliis 
outfit weighs 140 pounds. 

The Chenango trailer weighs 850 pounds. 
The frame work for the tent is steel tubing; the 
tent does not come to the ground at the sides; 
and the Chenango boasts itself to be more of a 
bungalow home than a tent camp. When packed 
for the road this outfit is practically as high as 
your car. It has its food compartment at the 
front end and is accessible only when the 
tent is up. 

The Curtis trailer differs in that its two beds 
do not fold down flat and do not when collapsed 
come in contact with each other. They stand 
vertical when the outfit is closed, forming two 
walls and leaving a great deal of packing space 
between them. This space in the Curtis is 48 
inches high by 44 inches wide. The tent walls 
do come clear to the ground and the Curtis is a 
well-put- together unit. 

The Auto-Tour trailer follows the accepted 
lines of the two-wheel outfit and adds a few 
articles to its standard equipment, like blankets, 
camp stools, and incidentals. The tent over 
this outfit reaches to the ground. 

The Kamprite trailer differs a little in that 
the roof is not peaked, but flat where you expect 
the ridge, something the same as your auto top. 
It boasts of a floor mat and hammocks for 
clothing. The tent covering of the Kamprite 
does not extend below the body. 

The standard Gypsy Trail trailing outfit is 
unique in that it offers only single beds and no 
ice box whatever. It has a fly 21 feet long that 
178 



THE AUTOCAMPER'S CASTLE 

extends over the top of the trailer and your 
automobile in front. The wooden body of this 
outfit is 4x7 feet. The wheels take 30x3-inch 
tires, having roller bearings, and two steel 
springs. The canvas tenting is 8-ounce double 
fill army duck. Four adjustable legs extend to 
the ground at each corner of the trailer body. 
This company offers two extras — a curtain 
extended as a porch, and a lean-to tent. Trailer, 
lean-to tent, and fly over all — including car — 
make fine camp. 

With the Auto-Kamp trailer it is an easy task 
to set up the complete trailer autocamp and be 
ready for housekeeping in ten minutes from the 
time the engine is switched off. The tent of 
this trailer is of heavy khaki-colored duck, 
treated with genuine Preservo, and absolutely 
water-proof. It forms over its frame a wall 
style tent 7x12 feet, having two storm-proof 
bobbinette windows. The frame is of wood, 
stained and varnished and well ironed and 
socketed. 

The trailer selected for autocamping will 
depend to a great extent on your personal 
liking for incidental special features on one or 
another and your special requirements. With 
all of them you will add extra equipment to suit 
your notions. The outfits having the tent clear 
to the ground are somewhat warmer quarters in 
which to sleep, but in either case you will want 
plenty of bedding under you. Sleeping bags we 
have found most excellent for use with our 
trailing outfits. 

In fair weather the trailer will not be made 
179 



AUTOCAMPING 

your dining room, for everybody will likely 
prefer to get out into the Big Dining room of the 
outdoors. Nor will it be made under fair skies 
your living room, smoking room, or parlor. It 
will be your kitchen and your bedroom under 
all conditions and in bad weather it will be a 
whole apartment of rooms all in one. 

One need never hesitate about using the trailer 
because of the gasoline and tire expense. Under 
tests we have found that perhaps once in twenty 
gallons our trailer will take an extra gallon for 
itself. And on identical trips with a trailer 
behind and a car outfit loaded in the car there 
was absolutely no perceptible difference in the 
fuel cost. I cannot find any difference in tire 
punishment with the load on or behind the car. 

There is one thing that will bother at first, 
and that is backing with your trailer. This has 
been the big and fatal problem to the builders 
of trailers, but it has been solved. Even when 
the draw bar was not such that it permitted 
backing the outfit where you wanted it to go, 
the times you backed up were far and few be- 
tween and in the last extremity you could un- 
hitch the trailer and turn it by hand. But this 
is not necessary today. The first thing in backing 
is to get the trailer going straight from the start 
or in making it turn the way you want it to go. 
Once you have it started as you want it, you 
will find it easily controlled with the steering 
wheel. In backing round a corner you first throw 
the front wheels opposite to what you would do 
if there was no trailer. This starts the trailer 
round the corner and then the wheels are thrown 

180 



THE AUTOCAMPER'S CASTLE 

the other way and your car follows. It is not 
half as hard as it sounds and only needs common 
sense and patience at first. 

As time goes on one finds many autocampers 
who are building or buying automobile camping 
bodies to place upon one kind of chassis or an- 
other. A great many of these have been home- 
made affairs that were not really satisfactory, 
or else small trucks, like the Reo Speed Wagon, 
have been slightly remodeled for the purpose of 
making a home on wheels for camping the 
highways. 

There are now a very few camping bodies 
manufactured that the author can highly recom- 
mend, one of which is the Kampkar. This outfit 
resembles in appearance and weight the Ford 
sedan, and it is indeed mounted on a Ford T 
chassis. The body is made from seasoned poplar, 
all joints have pressed steel corner angles, panels 
and doors are ^-inch material, and the body is 
light in weight while being sturdy. 

The Kampkar has a 14-gallon gasoline tank, 
an 8-gallon water tank, ice box, folding table 
22x49 inches, two-burner gasoline stove. Wear- 
ever cooking utensils in family size and numbers, 
table ware, electric lights, and an instrument 
board with map pockets. The two beds ex- 
tended are 42x75 inches with 4-inch Marshall 
Springs and 2-inch padding. There are lockers 
almost everywhere about this outfit. The front 
seats are 22x42 inches with same springs and 
padding as listed for beds. The floor space 
(beds down) is 22x57 inches, and the body width 
closed is 63 inches while the length is 9 feet. 
181 



AUTOCAMPING 

The top is oiled duck and the sides allow backs 
of seats to swing out to form beds, each side 
protected by water-proof canvas. The weight 
is 600 pounds. 

Another good camp car body is the Livabout, 
which appears as a neat sedan on the road, but 
when opened boasts ice box, gasoline stove, 
food compartment, cupboard, kitchen table, 
dining table, bathtub, drawers for toilet articles, 
emergency toilet, hot and cold running water, 
and two clothes closets. When not used for 
camping, the cabinets holding the outing equip- 
ment are readily removed, and you have either a 
passenger car or a light truck, as you please. 



182 



Chapter XIII 

The Camera for Autocamping Pictures 

A FTER more than a score of years chum- 
/-\ ming with a camera on my outdoor ad- 
ventures into big and small game country, 
on trout and bass streams, and on camping and 
tramping trips, the author has come to include 
the picture-making machine as a prime essential 
part of his equipment for autocamping. There 
is infinite satisfaction in having for all years to 
come a story-telling series of pictures of your 
trip over week-ends, or whole weeks, or maybe a 
month in the open. Pictures should be almost 
more highly prized possessions of the autocamper 
than any other thing, unless we make the one 
exception of health. Pictures neatly assembled 
in an album with dainty corner fasteners of the 
sticker type, arranged in chronological order, 
will serve to make your trip last in permanent 
panorama for not only yourself and the family, 
but for the entertainment of your friends. 
There is a potent lure in pictures. Children 
record on plastic minds the things they see in 
pictures more easily than anything else, not 
excepting occupational education. The picture 
habit has us Americans gripped like a doped 
drug addict. Witness the movies, the pictures 
used in advertising, illustrated books, news- 
183 



AUTOCAMPING 

papers, magazines, and folders. Truly we live 
in a Picture Age. 

A good camera should be carefully selected 
for your autocamping trip, if you already do not 
have such an article. The box camera is almost 
out of the question because it is like using a one- 
cylinder car where you ought to have six cylin- 
ders, or four at least. 

By all means select a camera with an anastig- 
mat lens, which is almost fifty percent better 
than its nearest rivals, the rapid rectilinear 
(often called simply R. R.), or the rapid sym- 
metrical. And the anastigmat is several hundred 
percent better than the achromatic or the menis- 
cus lenses, used only in the cheap box camera 
and lowest grade folding outfit. 

A few years ago the anastigmat lens was very 
expensive, but today several American firms 
are making these highest grade glasses and the 
cost is within the reach of anybody who auto- 
camps. In fact the relative cost of the best type 
of lenses used on various machines will depend 
more on the size you buy than the kind of lens 
selected, the larger F. 4.5 lens naturally costing 
more than the F. 6.3 or the smaller F. 7.5. The 
**F.'* stands for Focal System and means the 
relative aperture opening according to the 
distance of lens from sensitive film. Thus, a 
camera with three and one-half inch focal length 
(distance of lens from film with camera set 100 
ft.), and the diameter of aperture one-half inch 
is said to be F. 7. This simply means that the 
relation of aperture and focal length is 1 to 7. 

The larger opening of F. 4.5 is more efficient 
184 



AUTOCAMPING PICTURES 

and a higher priced lens simply because it will 
require less time to take the picture under the 
same conditions, than with a small-opening 
camera, say the F. 7*5. It is like yourself stand- 
ing in a room with one window. If the curtain is 
raised the amount of light admitted depends 
upon the size of the window. A small window 
naturally gives full illumination and a smaller 
one poorer illumination. 

In the camera the sensitive film is in the place 
of your eye in the room. Hence you can readily 
see why the largest lens that your pocket book 
can stand is the one for your camera. Generally 
the same make of camera may be had with at 
least three openings, or aperture sizes: the 
F. 7.5, F. 6.3, and F. 4.5. 

All lenses are marked with certain figures, and 
openings so marked have the same exposure 
value regardless of the actual size of the opening. 
Recently two friends came to me with their 
machines, complaining that one or the other 
must have a camera with incorrect markings 
since the two did not appear the same in size. 
F. 8 on the postcard camera was actually larger 
than the F. 8 on the 23^x3i^ machine, but just 
the same each has the same relative value, each 
admitting the same amount of light to the filrn. 

Just the same the anastigmat lens will permit 
a better picture than any other type, aperture 
values the same for both. Remember that a 
large lens window taking a 5x7 picture is much 
slower than the same actual size opening work- 
ing for a 23^x33^ picture. This is mainly for 
the reason that the focal distance (distance of 

185 



AUTOCAMPING 

lens from sensitive plate) is greater in the case 
of the larger picture. It is something like trying 
to read your newspaper fifteen feet from the 
light compared with reading it only a few feet 
from the same light. The inference is obvious. 

x\n axiom to remember will be that a large 
aperture with small picture surface to cover, 
other things being equal, is much more efficient 
than the same lens opening with a large picture. 
In other words you might better buy a large 
aperture anastigmat lens to take 23^x334 pic- 
tures than to put your money into the same lens 
to take a larger size picture. To reduce it down 
more simply yet, the smaller camera takes a 
better picture than the larger machine, and is a 
far superior and more efficient machine. 

Most pictures used for illustrating purposes 
today are enlargements from small negatives 
(the negative is the developed film from which 
positive prints are made). Practically every 
illustration in this book was made from an 
enlargement, the pictures having been taken 
with the Ansco Vest Pocket Speedex No. 3, 
apertured F. 4.5 with Spencer Anastigmat 
lens, and making negatives 23^x33^. This size 
film negative with this particular machine allows 
any size enlargement, and an 8x10 enlargement 
cannot readily be distinguished from the same 
size contact print. 

In more than twenty years of experimenting 
with outdoor exposures the author has used 
practically every American make of camera and 
several imported machines, first using larger 
sizes and gradually finding from Father Ex- 
186 



AUTOCAMPING PICTURES 

perience that the ideal camping camera was the 
little fellow. The small camera is easy to pack, 
light to carry, convenient to operate, inexpen- 
sive to maintain, and a much more speedy camera 
than its larger brothers. You can have only the 
better films enlarged and thus spend your actual 
picture money only for those views that you 
know are excellent. 

With the V-P Speedex No. 3, lensed as de- 
scribed, you can take snap-shot pictures in 
shade and on dark (cloudy) days. This means 
that unless the light is very poor or the shade 
very deep, you need no tripod, but may make the 
exposures with camera in hand, which in itself is 
a boon to the autocamper. This camera for in- 
door pictures has two tripod sockets, one for tak- 
ing the picture each way of the rectangular film. 

Not only will the Speedex No. 3 get your 
pictures under any light condition between nine 
in the morning and three or four in the after- 
noon on summer days, but you don't have to 
tell your subjects to "hold still." If baby in- 
sists on kicking, let her kick, indeed much the 
better way is to steal out beside your roadside 
camp and snap the picture when everybody is 
unconscious of the act. Thus you get natural 
pictures. Somehow we all dislike very much the 
posed picture when everybody "got set" for 
their picture. 

On the Ansco V-P Speedex No. 3 will be found 
the following aperture openings marked on top 
of the lens drum where you can see them when 
looking into your finder: F. 4.5, 5.Q, 8, 11.3, 16, 
22.6, and 32. These are the window sizes 
187 



AUTOCAMPING 

through which you may admit light upon the 
film. Roughly each stop (aperture) has just 
half the exposure value of the one before it. 
Suppose you know that a bright sky will require 
the F. 11 stop with 1/25 second shutter move- 
ment. Now perhaps some subject in your 
picture will be moving rapidly, perhaps Sir 
Autocamper chopping wood. To get a clear 
picture of the swinging ax will require a greater 
speed than 1/25 second. So by opening the lens 
to the next larger stop, F. 8, you may increase 
the shutter speed to 1/50 second. The same 
amount of light will get to your film. But if the 
subject in the picture should be moving very 
rapidly you might need to use the next larger stop 
and speed the shutter to 1/100 second. In all 
three cases the very same amount of light would 
get to your film, but with a difference in speed. 

It is admitted that snap-shot pictures are 
much easier for the amateur than time expo- 
sures, which the professional sometimes seems 
to favor. With the very speedy Speedex No. 3, 
using the special rapid Ansco Speedex films, 
you have but to learn what is the right stop at 
1/25 second, and then it is easy to decide how 
fast the lens will need to work to stop the motion 
of the subjects in your picture and use the 
proper aperture, as described in the foregoing 
paragraph. 

But aperture openings on your camera are 
for other reasons than merely acting as windows 
to allow light to enter. The various size open- 
ings have a great deal to do with the depth of 
focus of your picture. Depth of focus is a bug- 

188 



AUTOCAMPING PICTURES 

bear to the amateur that like a medieval myth, 
once you understand it, fades into scientific 
proportions. Suppose you were taking a picture 
of your camp along the roadside. In the fore- 
ground are chairs and table, in the center is the 
tent, and in the background a mountain or 
landscape. Can you get a picture that will have 
everything in focus, that is clear and sharp? 
You can, if your depth of focus is "deep" enough 
to enclose within its plane the table a few feet 
away and the tent with its background perhaps a 
hundred feet away. 

It is a to-be-remembered axiom that the 
smaller the opening used on your camera, the 
deeper the focus. 

In other words, suppose you set your camera 
for 25 feet and use the largest opening to make 
the picture of your camp. The table in the fore- 
ground will likely be blurred. Leave the camera 
set at the same place and make the picture with 
stop set to F. 16 or 22 and the result will be that 
everything is in focus. 

You must remember that the small stops 
require relatively longer exposures. Hence to 
get such a picture you may need to set the 
camera on something substantial that will not 
vibrate and take a short time exposure. The 
Speedex No. 3 shutter will make time exposures 
for you at 1 second, 3^ second, or 1/5 second; and 
for longer exposures you may set the shutter 
at T (time) and make as long an exposure as 
is necessary. Also there is a third type of time 
exposure that may be taken with this camera, 
as well as most others, and that is marked B 
189 



AUTOCAMPING 

(bulb) on the shutter. With the time exposure 
one click opens the shutter and it stays open 
until another pressure on the release. With the 
bulb exposure one pressure alone takes the 
picture, for you press the release, holding it 
compressed the length of time you want the 
exposure, for simply releasing the pressure 
closes the shutter. 

Focus and depth of focus are two different 
but closely related subjects. We say an object 
is in focus when a clear image of it is recorded 
on the film. Depth of focus depends on the 
distance apart things may be in your picture and 
still give a sharp image, the distance being con- 
sidered along a straight line extended from film 
and lens out through the scene you are photo- 
graphing. To make it easy for you to use the 
right aperture in getting everything clearly in 
focus with the Speedex No. 3, there is a scale on 
the bed of the camera for convenient reference. 
Here it is : 



Depth of Focus Scale, Ansco V-P Speedex 
No. 3 



100 ft. 


36' inf. 


32' inf. 


24' inf. 


19' inf. 


14' inf. 


25 ft. 


17.3-44 


16.3-55 


14-150 


12-inf. 


9.7-inf. 


10 ft. 


8.5-12.0 


8.2-12.8 


7.6-14.5 


6.9-17.5 


6.1-26 


6 ft. 


5.4-6-7 


5.3-6.9 


5-7.3 


4.7-8 


4.3-9.6 


4 ft. 


3.7-4.3 


3.7-4.4 


3.5-4.5 


3.4-4.8 


3.1-5.3 




F. 4.5 


F. 5.6 


F. 8 


F. 11 


F. 16 



190 



AUTOCAMPING PICTURES 

This chart may appear complicated at first 
glance, about as difficult as the whole alphabet 
once looked to you many years ago. But once 
understood this Depth of Focus Scale will be as 
simple as your alphabet, in fact, this chart is the 
ABC of amateur photography. To thoroughly 
understand and know how to use it will almost 
surely spell successful pictures. 

The explanation is most simple. Note that 
at the left are figures one below the other, 100 ft. 
down to 4 ft. This refers to the distance you 
stand from the central portion of the scene your 
are photographing. If you are roughly 25 feet, 
then set the thumb screw on your camera which 
moves the lens of your machine to the 25 -foot 
mark. 

Next you consider light conditions, which 
means you decide what stop or aperture opening 
to use. Suppose the light is bright and the sun 
strikes on your camp scene. Experience with 
this camera will tell you that F. 11 will get the 
picture with the shutter at 1/25 second. The 
next question is: Will everything be in focus? 
So you look at the Depth of Focus scale, locate 
the 25 feet row of figures and run your finger 
over until you are in the column above F. 11 
(the aperture openings are the lower row of 
figures). At the junction of the row of figures 
opposite 25 feet with the column above F. 11 
you find "12-inf." This means that everything 
in your pictures will be in sharp focus from a 
distance of 12 feet in front of your camera to 
infinity. If nothing is closer to you than twelve 
191 



AUTOCAMPING 

feet you may take the picture at F. 11 with 
shutter speed 1/25 second. 

By this simple scale you will know whether to 
set your camera at 25 feet or 10 feet, whether to 
use stop F. 11 or one smaller to get everything 
in the depth of focus plane, and so you will know 
what speed shutter to use. Guesswork is elimi- 
nated with this Depth of Focus scale on the bed 
of your camera. 

A word should be said about the shutter. On 
the Speedex No. 3 you can read the shutter and 
turn to the location desired while looking at the 
top of the camera, where you will naturally be 
viewing the image in your finder. This shutter, 
as on all first-class cameras, is speeded up to 
1/300 second for stopping very rapid motion. 
With this little 19-ounce camera you can go 
into the woods and do with its combined speedy 
shutter and lens what a 7- or 11 -pound reflect- 
ing camera may do. Likely for press work and 
other places where weight and bulk are no con- 
sideration there is no better camera than the 
reflecting machine, and the Graflex stands with- 
out a peer for this purpose. I have one good 
woodsman and camp buddy who takes his 
Graflex along on autocamping trips. 

But where weight and compactness are prime 
considerations, then the light camera, which 
may be carried in a holster on the belt, is the 
thing. And with a camera so built that you get 
practically as much speed as any machine manu- 
factured, the Ansco Vest Pocket Speedex No. 3 
is the ideal autocamping picture-making machine 
for the amateur. The Eastman Special No. 1 is 
192 



AUTOCAMPING PICTURES 

another machine in the same category, but lacks 
several features of the Ansco, among them the 
ABC of the amateur photographer, the Depth of 
Focus Scale. 

Other good sizes of camera for the auto- 
camper's special needs are the l^x^J/^, the 
23^x4K, the 2>^x4>^, the S}4x5}4 (postcard 
size), and the old standard 4x5. Remember the 
smaller the camera the shorter the focus of the 
lens and consequently the greater the depth of 
focus of the resultant picture. With the three- 
and-one-half-inch focus camera it is a simple 
matter to get a picture that "is all in focus" in 
deep shade or on cloudy days with the aperture 
F. 4.5; while with a seven-inch focus and the 
F. 4.5 opening, the depth of focus is so very 
narrow that snap-shot work is out of the ques- 
tion, at least with anything but a reflecting 
camera. All things favor the sensible small- 
size camera with anastigmat lens and the Direct 
View Finder, which comes accessory to the 
Speedex if ordered, making an outfit almost 
equal to the reflecting machine. 

Another point in favor of the Speedex No. 3 
with anastigmat F. 4.5 lens is the fact that this 
camera may be used right along in sunshine or 
on bright light days without doing any focusing, 
that it is so versatile that it may be used as a 
fixed focus camera. Simply keep your thumb- 
lever set at 25 feet, which is automatically kept 
locked there when the front is closed or opened, 
set the aperture lever at F. 16, and the shutter 
at 1/25 second. Then you can take any picture 
with positive assurance that everything will be 
13 193 



AUTOCAMPING 

in focus everywhere in your picture. If a sudden 
emergency arises that you want to photograph, 
you merely open the camera, look through the 
Direct View Finder, and press the release. No 
matter what the scene, everything will be in 
sharp focus and your picture will be clear and 
snappy. It was with the camera set thus at 
fixed focus that a woman in the party snapped 
a wild deer from the automobile along a Maine 
highway. 

The more you use a camera the more you will 
find that you really use the average speeds and 
the medium openings for almost all your pic- 
tures. The larger openings are simply reserve 
power when the light is very poor. The smaller 
apertures are only reserved for times when an 
exceedingly deep depth of focus is required. 
A highly speeded shutter is necessary only when 
extremely rapid motion must be stopped. But 
just these things that are out of the ordinary and 
perhaps a bit abnormal, will constantly present 
themselves to the outdoor photographer, and 
lucky indeed is that amateur who has a camera 
with great reserve power. 

Films should be used by all means on the auto- 
camping excursions because dry plates, being 
supported by glass, are heavy and extremely 
fragile, while the film, backed by celluloid is 
light and practically unbreakable. Film packs 
are not so successful as the roll film, because they 
sometimes do not pull around well and again 
the operation of drawing them into place puts 
fine scratches across the face of the film. 

The average photographer will want a tripod, 
194 




1 Wild Deer snapped from automobile 

2 Camera record of autocamper's trout fishing 



AUTOCAMPING 

and if your camera is of the slower tyi)e this will 
be necessary on your autocamping trips; but 
with the speedier outfits with F. 4.5 lens opening 
you may leave the tripod at home and be sure to 
get the pictures you want. If a few exposures 
need to be made on time, set the camera on some 
stable surface and make the exposure. 

If you have trouble with proper exposures at 
the start you should buy an exposure meter, 
which will practically eliminate all light value 
guesstimation. Any of the following are good 
exposure meters: Milner, Harvey, Wynne, 
Watkins, and Burt. The intrinsic value of the 
exposure meter is, not to tell you exactly how 
long to expose, but to tell you not to under expose. 
I find the Milner best. 

When taking a picture you should frequently 
pay little attention to the light and well illumi- 
nated places, and expose for the dark shadows. 
This will result in over-exposed films. My film 
developer grumbles because I over-expose almost 
everything because I am after the shaded places 
in my scene. Then my enlarger growls because 
my negatives are so dense that it takes him four 
times as long to make each picture. But the 
picture tells the story and it may be set down as a 
cardinal rule that you ought rather to over- 
expose than under-time your pictures. In fact 
the film makers today are purposely making a 
film that will stand over-exposure in the high 
lights, while you are giving the dark places 
proper time. Look at pictures taken not so 
many years ago and you will see very "chalky" 
prints, the white part very white and the dark 
196 



AUTOCAMPING PICTURES 

very black, with little detail shown in the 
shadow. Or if the details show in the dark parts 
of the picture, the faces of the folks in the picture 
are so far over-exposed as to make them almost 
unrecognizable. 

The closer you are to the object you are photo- 
graphing, the more accurate must be your focus 
to get a clear picture. The closer you are to 
your moving subject, the more speedily your 
lens must be shuttered to stop the motion. Very 
speedy events, like rapidly moving animals or 
birds or automobiles or boats, should never be 
recorded on your film closer than 25 feet. This 
may make your object on the negative very 
small but your enlargements will throw up the 
clear image to the desired size. 

Another argument for the small-size camera 
may be here recorded in the light of what has 
been explained. That is, that the smaller, short- 
focus camera will stop motion with a slower 
shutter than a larger, long-focus camera. With 
your Speedex you can stop all ordinary motion 
at 1/25 second, such as packing up camp, 
ordinary bodily motions, the walk of animals; 
while a longer-focus machine might require 
1/50 second to do the same feat of stopping 
motion. 

One of the most important paragraphs in the 
whole chapter will be recorded in this sentence: 
Be sure to form the habit of turning your film to 
the next position at once after the exposure is 
made without exception, or else that much 
lamented epidemic will start up like wildfire, 
which is known and revered by all photographers 
197 



AUTOCAMPING 

as the "double exposure," or taking two pictures 
on one section of the film. 

Before making the exposure of your scene, 
try several positions to find the best biew. Just 
merely stepping out and snapping the picture 
will invariably result in very mediocre pictures. 
Take a little time to find the angle for com- 
prehending your scene where everything that 
you want prominent in the picture will show up 
at its best. 

Remember that in looking at a picture your 
eye always covers the upper left-hand corner 
first, swinging from there to the other points of 
the view. See that your upper left hand corner 
carries something vital to the "atmosphere" of 
the picture when possible. Never center a single 
subject right in the center of your picture if this 
can be avoided. In a landscape the better 
balance is two-thirds foreground and one-third 
background. 

The last important thing about making your 
pictures will be to try hard for story-telling 
views. Have the people in the picture eating or 
talking or packing or something — anything but 
posing to have their pictures taken. This is 
not an easy thing to force your subjects to do, 
for the unconscious personal ego seems to bubble 
over when somebody gets out the camera. 



198 



Chapter XIV 
The Doctor in Camp 

A MOTORING vacation is conducive to 
physical well-being, for outdoors one gets 
the oxygen he needs, the active exercise 
gives him the needed change from the sedentary 
life, the change of scenery buoys up his spirits, 
and the speeding up of virility makes him glad 
he is alive. The open road is a great natural 
sanitarium. 

The pleasant routine of an autocamping 
vacation is sometimes broken into by some 
emergency in which health and even life are at 
stake, and to avoid the penalty of neglect every- 
one should be ready to apply first aid in acci- 
dents and to treat the more common ills. Self- 
doctoring has well defined limitations, and when 
one is within the reach of a doctor the seriousness 
of the case will determine when he should be 
consulted. The author has found the Security 
First- Aid Kit to be all that its well chosen name 
implies, and its presence on our autocamping 
excursions gives the feeling of a first-class in- 
surance policy — that of security. 

First aid to the injured is not so difiicult as 
some might suppose and its utility far over- 
balances any exertion one may put forth to 
learn the rudiments of good campcraftmanship. 
It behooves every camper who will get a mile 
199 



AUTOCAMPING 

from home to Jearn the most simple principles of 
first-aid methods and to have with him a fully- 
equipped first-aid kit. Besides a knowledge of 
fundamentals, there ought to be at his command 
a summary in brief form of what to do in emer- 
gency, and such directions come with the 
Security Kit. 

The primary essential in caring for the sick 
or the afflicted is to avoid panic. That is the 
cardinal first rule. Most accidents at first sight 
appear very serious, but turn out to be trifling. 
Panic at such times prevents one from doing the 
little things he ought to do at the very start 
when quick action counts most. Avoid panic! 
Have that principle embedded deeply in your 
subconscious mind. 

The Security First-Aid Kit comes in a lac- 
quered heavy tin bond box that is 6x12x23^ 
inches and fits into a side pocket of the car, 
ready for instant use. If you do not care for a 
ready-filled first-aid kit, then you may assemble 
one of your own. The author, however, can 
recommend the Security because he uses it and 
because he has found that behind it is a practic- 
ing physician of high standing, who is himself an 
autocamper, having recently spent one full year 
touring. Hence a kit arranged by so high an 
authority will be sure to be right. The right 
first-aid kit for the motorist should contain the 
following medical and surgical equipment: 

Cathartic Pills. Your favorite kind is the one 

to take. Hinkles or compound cathartic are good. 

Most cases of sickness need a strong laxative in 

the initial treatment and best at bedtime. 

200 



THE DOCTOR IN CAMP 

Never eat constipating food and believe you 
can prevent "tying up" the bowels, for this in 
itself constitutes disease, and poisoning of the 
whole system through constipation is most 
prevalent. 

Intestinal Antiseptic Tablets. In cramps or 
diarrhoea use first a strong laxative, then the 
intestinal pills, one every two hours. 

Grip Tablets. Aspirin, 5 grains in each tablet. 
One each hour until four are taken, then one 
every three hours in grippe, colds, pain, head- 
ache, fever, and injury. 

Mosquito Dope. Best carried in a metal flask 
or pocket oiler. If you mix your own have the 
druggist compound: oil citronella, 1 ounce; 
spirits camphor, 1 ounce; oil cedar, }/2 ounce. 
Label, "For External Use." 

Halazone Tablets. Used to purify the drink- 
ing water supply. Water boiled furiously for 
half an hour is safe. Halazone is used, one tablet 
to a quart of water, and after twenty minutes the 
contaminated water is safe to use. 

Absorbent cotton. One ounce will be sufficient. 
This is useful as a padding in dressing wounds. 
Also when drinking water is questionable, purify 
it by boiling for half an hour, then cool and 
filter through absorbent cotton held in cleansed 
hands. 

Ointment. Any simple kind will do. Boric 
Acid Ointment or Carbolized Vaseline is good. 
It is useful for cracking lips, dryness of the skin, 
and is excellent for burns. 

Analgesic Balm. A mixture of camphor, 
menthol, and eucalyptol in an ointment base 
201 



AUTOCAMPING 

used as a liniment; rubbed on the skin in sprains, 
bruises, rheumatism and neuralgia. 

Adhesive Plaster. A cloth with an adhesive on 
one side used as a covering over chafed heels and 
blisters, holding wound edges together and 
dressings in place. A roll of one inch by five 
yards of Zinc Oxide adhesive tape is right. 
About the car it may serve in emergency for 
insulating tape. 

Bichloride of Mercury Tablets. Mark "Poi- 
son," unless purchased in a ready -prepared kit, 
when it will be so marked. One tablet to a 
quart of boiled water makes a solution for keep- 
ing dressings wet and for cleansing wounds. 

Ampoules of Aromatic Spirits Ammonia. 
Vials will come wrapped in cotton, and for use 
are broken and the saturated cotton held near 
the nose to inhale in fainting and shock from 
accident. This is a powerful and safe stimulant, 
used by the Red Cross and the armies of the 
world. 

Wound Dressing. A square yard of sterilized 
surgeon's gauze should be kept in waxed paper 
and enclosed in a sealed carton. It is applied to 
wounds to protect them. It absorbs discharges 
and stands guard against dirt. Wounds should 
be cleansed by washing with hot, soapy water 
and cotton; then the bichloride solution used; 
and when dressed the gauze applied. 

Two-inch Roller Bandage. 

Splinter Forceps. 

Lance. 

This will constitute the right emergency 
first-aid kit from both the medical and the 
202 



THE DOCTOR IN CAMP 

surgical standpoint. Now let us consider simple 
medical treatment. 

Colds. Grippe, cold, or influenza is a common 
complaint after chilling of the body surface, as 
after a rain, or a cold night sleeping in mountain 
altitudes. Woolen underclothing, recommended 
in the chapter on clothing, will be the preventive 
and the safeguard in warding off colds. If 
afflicted, take the laxative and aspirin. 

Diarrhcea. Bad water, poor food, fresh fruits, 
or chilling of the stomach may cause this. An 
extra covering of woolen, such as an abdominal 
band, will help to equalize the temperature, and 
all food should be stopped for a day. Plenty of 
rest, lying down preferred, should be indulged 
in to give the stomach and bowels rest. When 
you are sure water is not the cause, drink a 
great deal of it. Clean out the bowels well and 
use the intestinal antiseptic tablets. For fever 
use aspirin. 

Heat Exhaustion. This is characterized by a 
pale face, the skin is sweaty and relief is afforded 
by stimulating with aromatic spirits of ammonia 
and hot drinks, but do not bathe the skin. 

Sunstroke. The symptoms are lack of per- 
spiration, hot skin, the face red, and the head 
feels a great pressure. Get to a cool, dry place 
and lie down, loosen the clothing and bathe the 
face and chest and wrists in cold water and 
drink as much water as wanted. 

Poison Ivy. While some are easily poisoned 

by ivy, others seem immune. Cotton should be 

saturated in an alcoholic solution of lead and 

bandaged over the afflicted areas or used as a 

203 



AUTOCAMPING 

wash on the skin. (This alcoholic solution of 
lead has not been included in the list of first-aid 
equipment.) 

Now we may consider the more simple surgi- 
cal treatments that may come up for first-aid 
care. 

Wounds. For example let us take an ax wound 
on the arch of the foot, which will involve treat- 
ment for all open wounds. First the bleeding 
must be stopped, and appliance of the fingers or 
applications of very hot water with cotton over 
the wound will check bleeding. Once a clot is 
formed, do not destroy it. Apply the gauze 
dressing firmly, after painting the wound with 
iodine, and hold in place with adhesive tape. 
In severe and deep cuts the bleeding is from an 
artery and may be told because it comes in red 
spurts. From a vein the flow is steady and the 
color darker. First place the limb above the 
level of the heart, with patient lying down. 
Remove the clothing, place a stone or hard ob- 
ject over the wound from above, tie a bandage 
over it and insert a stick through the loop, 
twisting same until bleeding gradually stops. 
Then release the pressure of the twisted bandage 
and dress with gauze and bandage. 

Infected Wounds. These are inflamed by the 
action of germs and there is given off a discharge 
of yellowish pus. The signs are local pain, red- 
ness, swelling, and the parts feel hot. Inflamed 
wounds should have the dressings kept wet with 
boiled water, either with or without the bichlor- 
ide tablets added. Dress such wounds daily, or 
until there is no sign of inflammation, then 
204 



THE DOCTOR IN CAMP 

cleanse and put on a dry gauze dressing. Pus 
in a wound should have plenty of room to get 
to the surface and out, and it may be necessary 
to cut a larger opening with a boiled lance. 

Abscesses. Boils, felons, and infections from 
a bruise or a scratch, and showing the signs of 
inflammation should be treated at once. Do 
not waste time by poulticing to soften and 
"ripen," but cut into the pus pocket as soon as the 
hard swelling with redness and heat appears. 
Boil the lance, or other sharp knife, paint the 
area with iodine, cutting deeply where the 
swelling is greatest. Pus will drain itself, but it 
will be well to keep the wound open by inserting 
a small piece of coiled gauze into the cut. The 
patient feels better at once when the tension is 
relieved. 

Gunshot Wounds. Army surgeons agree that 
the least meddling with bullet or shot wounds 
the better. The danger in such a wound is from 
infection, bleeding, and the shock to the nervous 
system. Stop bleeding of such wounds by 
plugging with gauze. Cleanse the entrance and 
exit wound (if any) with iodine. Apply the 
surgical gauze and stimulate for shock. (See 
Fractures.) 

Fractures. A fracture is a severe accident and 
one that will need the aid of the physician, if 
possible. Set the fracture as near as possible, 
kneading the ends of the break into place with 
the fingers. Apply splints and wrap with soft 
cloth to act as a cushion for the wooden or bark 
splints which are placed around the broken part 
to hold the bones in place. If swollen, apply 
205 



AUTOCAMPING 

cold water constantly on the cloths, and if 
infected treat as already described for Infected 
Wounds. Treat shock, if present; symptoms 
being a cold, clammy skin, staring eyes, very 
little evidence of pain, and great exhaustion. 
Inhale aromatic spirits of ammonia, lay patient 
on his back, lower his head and raise his feet 
higher than his head, wrap him in hot blankets 
and place him in bed with hot stones wrapped in 
cloth on his stomach, sprinkle cold water in his 
face, and rub the swollen limbs toward the heart. 
Give plenty of hot, stimulating drinks, such as 
steaming coffee. 

Sprains. Sprains mean the tearing or bruising 
of ligaments and rest is the first essential. Hot 
or cold or alternating hot and cold applications 
to the skin give relief and reduce the swelling. 
When the swelling is down put on the adhesive 
plaster splint. Prepare a dozen adhesive plaster 
strips 1x8 inches and for ankle sprains apply 
one over heel and up over the ankle, the next 
being placed back of the heel and down toward 
the toes; alternating strips are then overlapped 
over the ones first put on, gradually covering 
the ankle toward the toes. Put these on snugly 
with the foot held somewhat flexed. 

Fish Hook in Flesh. This is best removed by 
running the barb on through the flesh and skin 
and cutting off the shank with pliers, taking out 
the barb one way and the shank the other. 

Snake Bite. The chance of an autocamper 

being afflicted with a snake bite is very little, 

popular publicity to the contrary. The first 

thing, when bitten, is to ascertain if the snake is 

206 



THE DOCTOR IN CAMP 

really poisonous. Such a snake is characterized 
by a triangular head, a pit back of the nostril, 
a heavy jaw, and the pupil of the eye slit-like, 
rather than round. If the poison does not get 
into the blood, little harm will be done. To 
prevent the poison being carried all over the 
body by the blood, tie a cloth about the limb 
between the bite and trunk, twisting it to stop 
for intervals the blood stream. Next destroy 
the poison by lancing the fang puncture and get 
free bleeding, rubbing on a few crystals of 
potassium permanganate and dressing with gauze. 
Stimulate the system with strong coffee, never 
with alcohol, wrap patient in warm blankets, 
and give a laxative of strength. Have the 
patient drink plenty of water. (If you go into 
dangerous snake country, add permanganate to 
your outfit.) 

Drowning. A person who is apparently lifeless 
may yet revive if the proper method of care is 
employed, and he should be given the benefit 
of the doubt. Get to work at once and keep at 
it for hours, first draining the water from the 
lungs by placing the patient on his face, clasping 
your hands under his waist, raising the body 
suspended from the middle. Repeat this raising- 
up movement several times. The resuscitation 
method used by the arms is the best, and the 
Schaefer Method is as follows: Place patient on 
stomach, arms in front of head fully extended, 
with head toward one side, resting on cheek. 
Kneel astride his body at his thighs and place 
the palms of your hands on each side of his 
lowest ribs so that the little finger just covers 
207 



AUTOCAMPING 

the last, or 12th, rib. The hands must be away 
from the backbone near the sides. Hold your 
arms straight out and rigid and throw the weight 
of your body forward, throwing your weight on 
his chest, thus compressing the lungs and further 
emptying them. Take about three seconds to 
press the lungs and then suddenly release. Rest 
two seconds and then repeat the process, making 
about twelve emptyings of the lungs per minute. 
When the patient shows signs of life, stimulate 
with aromatic spirits of ammonia and hot coffee 
and wrap well in warm blankets to keep him 
comfortable. If the patient has been submerged 
in water less than two minutes, he stands a good 
chance of recovery. Never give up. Work at 
least two hours, no matter how slight the chance 
of recovery. 

Personal hygiene should be carefully con- 
sidered in autocamp life. Highly important is 
the proper elimination of waste matter, the 
accumulation amounting to much more because 
of the change to outdoor air and to different 
food and more of it. A good laxative at the 
start will help send off the trip propitiously. 

Sudden changes of temperature are to be 
expected and are best guarded against by wear- 
ing woolen underclothing, even in summer, using 
the heavy for cold camping and light woolen for 
summer autocamping. For extra protection of 
the abdominal organs — a very important con- 
sideration — wear a band of woolen, preventing 
by this abdominal band many intestinal com- 
plaints. 

The daily bath need not be omitted from the 
208 



THE DOCTOR IN CAMP 

routine of camp life, although one cannot plan 
on a tub as at home, unless he takes with him 
the Gold Medal folding tub, depending on 
available space. Anyhow, there will be many 
streams and lakes that afford bathing facilities, 
and many of the public motor camping parks 
are so equipped. At least a basin of lukewarm 
water and a sponge may be employed. 

To prevent tooth trouble, see your dentist 
before you start on a long trip. In traveling in 
desert country and in alkali country follow the 
cowboy style by wearing a handkerchief tied 
over the nose and mouth. 

Sunburn can be avoided if one gradually 
accustoms the skin to the sun glare by covering 
the neck with handkerchiefs and wearing broad 
brimmed hats. A good treatment for sunburn 
is an ointment consisting of camphor, 20 grains, 
menthol 10 grains, and cocoa butter 1 ounce, 
mixed together by your druggist. Sun glare in 
the eyes should be prevented by amber or green 
goggles. 



209 



Chapter XV 
Hunting and Fishing Equipment 

HUNTING and fishing are corollary to 
autocamping. It is axiomatic that the 
autocamping avocation is becoming the 
most popular form of vacationing. The corol- 
lary to the axiom must be that roadside hunting 
and fishing are growing in favor. I have a friend 
who always motor camps with two hunting dogs 
through the month of October in his native state, 
even at times taking out a license to autocamp 
Canada. And all campers will endeavor to supply 
the roadside dining room now and then with 
fish in season. 

There is some game that is never out of season 
in the summer even, that is at the same time 
edible and worth hunting. In every section 
there is some species of squirrel that is regarded 
as a public nuisance and may be shot at sight, 
and many are the squirrel pot-pies and squirrel 
fricassees that in our motor camps have aroma- 
filled the surrounding air with appetizing in- 
vitations. Frogs' legs are protected, if at all, 
but a short period of the year, and make ex- 
cellent eating when you camp within walking 
distance of water where they may be hunted. 
We have frequently shot woodchucks just before 
sundown near our autocamps, but never but 
once have tried to eat them. Some campers 
210 



HUNTING AND FISHING EQUIPMENT 

claim that they take out the kernels under the 
front arms (thyroid glands) and then the 'chuck 
is edible. He may be, if highly seasoned, but his 
meat tastes too much like the ground to suit me. 
But woodchucks in the East make interesting 
sport and they are pests that every farmer will 
be glad for you to shoot. Although likely the 
autocamper will not hunt them, it may be worth 
while to note that coyotes and wolves, and in 
many states foxes and bears, are not protected 
and may be shot any time. 

Likely fishing is more popular than hunting 
for the average autocamper, because the season 
more frequently coincides with his vacation time. 
Then, too, a great many states are not so par- 
ticular about non-resident fishing as they are 
about hunting by residents out-state. All things 
considered, it is far easier to catch a mess of 
fish in some stream along the road and near your 
camp than to shoot game. 

Just the same, hunting equipment ought to 
be with every autocamping outfit. For the sake 
of protection alone it is worth while to carry a 
gun with you. The all-round gun for motor 
camping must be light, safe, and compact, 
shooting as great a variety of ammunition as 
possible. 

For this purpose there is no weapon made that 
compares with the Marble Game Getter gun. 
This gun folds up and carries in a holster as 
compact as your camp ax. The stock is made of 
rolled sheet steel, which is nickeled, and folds 
back under the barrels of the gun when not in 
use. When opened to form a gun stock it is 
211 



AUTOCAMPING 

rigid and fits exactly as well as the ordinary 
wood stock. On trips afield about your camp 
you may carry this weapon folded in your 
holster on your belt. 

The Game Getter is a shot gun and a rifle 
combined in one, and it does not stop with that, 
for it may be made a rifle in .22-caliber or, at 
your will, a rifle in .44 caliber shooting a round 
bullet. This gun has two barrels, not side by 
side like the tubes of the double-barrel shotgun, 
but one above the other. The upper barrel will 
handle ammunition in .22 long, .22 short, or 
.22 long rifle; the long — and the long rifle is 
preferable even for target practice — being more 
accurate and burning a better grade of powder. 
The lower barrel will shoot shot shells of .410 
gauge, or .44-40 round ball ammunition. 

Hence the Game Getter will give you greater 
versatility than any other gun, and the auto- 
camper must carry only equipment that serves 
several purposes when this is possible. The .22 
bullets will get squirrels and rabbits, the .410 
shot shells will shoot partridges, quail, pheasants, 
rabbits, prairie chickens, and even ducks. While 
the .44-40 bullet will take care of bigger game 
up to, and including, deer. And this gun has 
actually killed bear and moose. 

The Game Getter may be had in barrels that 
are 12, 15, and 18 inches in length. A unique 
safety feature in the new and inproved Game 
Getter is the fact that it may be carried at 
neutral with both barrels loaded with absolutely 
no danger. The same hammer explodes both 
upper and lower barrel, and sets at neutral until 
212 




1 The autocamper is "some" fisherman 4 Prest-0-Lite cooking outfit in game 

2 Camping Trailer to carry game home fields 

3 For protection and hunting use a 5 Duck hunting with the Kampkar 

Game Getter G Autocamping in deer country 

213 



AUTOCAMPING 

you are ready to fire. You adjust the hammer 
striker to the barrel you wish to shoot at the 
moment you are ready. The ejector does not 
throw the shells entirely out, but only partially, 
hence if one barrel alone has been fired the loaded 
cartridge in the other is not thrown out. The 
ejector works for both barrels simultaneously. 
To open the breech it is necessary to simply 
pull back on the trigger guard. 

This gun, loaded and perfectly safe, may be 
carried in the car pocket at the driver's elbow 
in the shorter barrel lengths, and is little larger 
than a six-shooter, revolver, or automatic pistol. 
Yet it is a gun that may be aimed and shot from 
the shoulder if you desire and carries a variety 
of ammunition wide enough to cover the whole 
gamut of game you will meet along the road. 

In many states it is not legal to shoot game 
from your car, nor from the highway. That is, 
game hunting in season. It likely would not 
apply to killing predatory animals and those not 
protected by law or classed as game animals. 
If you are going out of your native state to camp, 
and want to shoot game along the roads in other 
states, it will be advisable to write the head- 
quarters of such state or states and find out 
your rights. Frequently shooting red squirrels 
and frogs and animals that are nuisances is not 
hunting within the meaning of the law, and you 
will want to know something about this. At 
the end of this chapter will be found a list of 
state officials to whom you should write, if you 
want to shoot in their jurisdictions, to find the 
limitations of the law. 

214 



HUNTING AND FISHING EQUIPMENT 

Dressing your game and making it ready for 
the table may or may not be a distasteful task. 
It depends a great deal on the way in which it is 
done, and there is something of a knack about 
it that comes readily enough with a little 
practice. 

To prepare a rabbit for the kettle, take the 
game to a stream of water if possible, or have a 
basin of water convenient. Grasp the skin at 
the middle of the back and cut through with 
your knife, making a long slit at right angles to 
the direction of the spine. Lay down your 
knife and grasp the slit on both sides by the 
fingers. Now pull the skin slowly and firmly 
toward head and rump. It will roll off easily 
and all hair possible should be kept from col- 
lecting on the meat. Next cut off the feet and 
head. Then slit from throat along the belly to 
the tail, slipping out the entrails and burning 
or burying them with the skin and feet. Wash 
the carcass and cut it up. The two rear hams 
and front legs are first cut free, then the trunk 
is severed into four equal pieces. Put the meat, 
washed clean, in cold water and sprinkle in a 
handful of salt. Allowing it to soak a few hours 
will bleach and draw out the blood from the 
meat. Be sure that the filmy covering on the 
meat of the rabbit is removed. It is now ready 
for parboiling and cooking, and rabbit rightly 
done cannot readily be distinguished from 
chicken. 

The same procedure will take care of small 
game. 

In dressing game birds it is often preferable 
215 



AUTOCAMPING 

to skin them. If you have scalding water con- 
venient, then you may plunge them into a pail 
of it and pick the feathers. Dry picking is 
sometimes done and this is not a hard job if the 
bird has just been killed. 

To draw a bird, cut off the head, and legs at 
the first joint. Make a lengthwise incision from 
breastbone to vent, through which the insides 
may be readily drawn. Wash the interior care- 
fully with salt water and your bird is ready to 
roast or may be cut up for cooking other ways. 

Small game that you do not want to eat at 
once may be carried in your ice chest or re- 
frigerator basket. Small game makes mighty 
fine broiling meat. More is said of ways to cook 
game meat in the chapter on camp cookery and 
utensils. 

Making fish ready for the pan is a simple task. 
Trout, with the exception of the Rainbow, do 
not need scaling, but should be scraped free 
from slime. Remove the vent, cut the gills free 
from the lower jaw and back of head, and slit 
from head to anal fin. Draw the inside out, 
pvdling on the gills backward, and scrape the 
clotted blood from the backbone. Large trout 
should have head and tail and fins removed, 
while the small ones need not have this cere- 
mony performed at all, but go into the pan head, 
eyes, tail, fins, and all but the interior, which 
the natives remove with a single slit of the 
knife. 

Some fish will need skinning, if caught from 
exceedingly muddy water. Most of them will 
need scaling. This is most easily accomplished 
21G 



HUNTING AND FISHING EQUIPMENT 

with Marble's folding fish knife, which has the 
sawtooth back to rake off the scales easily, 
while the blade is used for the remainder of the 
dressing work. The blade of this knife is 4 
inches and the handle is of German silver, being 
a good allround outdoor pocket knife. 

For dressing trout the Marble trout knife, 
built specially for this sole purpose, is to be 
strongly recommended. This same knife may 
be used for dressing all fish, as well as trout. 
This knife is about 6 inches long, blade and 
handle, and the end of the handle is a ring 
through which your little finger is inserted. 
The remainder of the fingers and the thumb are 
placed against the back of the blade and the 
curve of the shank. This knife may not appeal 
to you at first glance, but once you see how 
naturally it fits your hand for the greatest 
convenience of the work of dressing fish, you 
will recognize its value. The trout knife does 
not fold, but comes with leather bound sheath 
for carrying it safely in your fish basket or pack. 

The Marble fish gaff will be worth considera- 
tion, if you will have fish of any size to land. 
This does not pierce or puncture the fish, but 
is the clincher type of gaff. It may be worked 
with one hand. Of course a landing net may be 
used, if you prefer, for the same purpose, and 
those with folding handles are best, especially 
with the collapsible hoop feature also. 

All game and fish, as soon as killed, ought to be 

bled at once. This helps get rid quickly of the 

animal heat, makes the meat more edible, and 

with birds allows them to be plucked much 

217 



AUTOCAMPING 

more easily. All game, with the exception of 
that having a head worth mounting, should 
have the throat cut at once. A deer should be 
stuck at the point of the breast if the head is to be 
mounted. Birds that are to be eaten should 
have their heads chopped off, while those to be 
mounted should be bled by thrusting a slim 
knife down their throats. The throat of the 
fish should be cut near the gills. Bleeding game 
and fish as soon as it is killed will help keep the 
meat much longer, if you have no ice and want 
to preserve it some time before eating. Do not 
keep meat, and especially fish, in water too long, 
as this soaks out the flavor and spoils it for first- 
rate eating quality. Rather, as soon as washed, 
wipe it dry with a clean towel and keep in your 
ice box or basket. Keeping it dry and in fresh 
air is much better than trying to preserve meat 
and fish in water. 

For sticking, skinning, and butchering large 
game the Marble Ideal or Woodcraft knife will 
be found excellent. These two knives will supply 
you with cutting tools for all the necessary needs 
of your roadside kitchen and culinary depart- 
ment. One alone will do very well, but the two 
are preferable because the Ideal has length, and 
the Woodcraft thickness, of blade. 

The subject of fishing tackle presents a field 
that the space allotted will not cover completely, 
but the author has been experimenting with 
tackle best suited for autocamping and has an 
outfit that has evolved from experience. Likely 
you may have your own fishing outfit and this 
will, in most cases, be all right for your purpose. 

218 



HUNTING AND FISHING EQUIPMENT 

By all means the tackle ought to be carried in a 
metal tackle box. In steel rods the telescoping 
variety are ideal for carrying in your car and they 
are quickly made ready for service, suiting their 
length to the purposes you need them for, and 
depending on the number of lengths you pull out. 

In split-bamboo rods the Divine will be found 
ideal and carry on their plush-lined foundation 
inside the heavy canvas cover anywhere about 
your car or trailer in safety. The eight-strip 
Divine rod is nearer round than the six, and the 
eight produces somewhat superior features. 
The eight-strip may be had in 5 sizes from 8 to 
10 feet in length and from 43^ to 6 ounces in 
weight. They all have three lengths anS an 
extra tip. The six-strip are identical in length 
and weight. If you prefer a dainty fly rod, 
there is nothing better than the Divine 73^ foot, 
weighing but 9,}/^ ounces. These rods are also 
built in heavy sizes for bass and trout flies, both 
in eight- and six-strip, ranging from d}/2 to \^}/2 
feet in length and weighing from 7 to 8)'2 ounces. 
Besides these there are two other varieties of 
special fly rods built. 

The Divine rod in regular trout size, 9j/^x5^, 
should be equipped with enamel E line. This 
makes an excellent all-round outfit for auto- 
camping and with it you need take no other 
tackle, for it handles practically any game fish 
that swims. 

Your reel may be a simple single-action affair 

or an automatic. All things considered, the 

author has found the Martin automatic reel in 

its improved form with line protector ideal for 

219 



AUTOCAMPING 

use with the Divine trout rod, and for all pur- 
poses that the autocamper demands of fishing 
tackle. The new Martin reel weighs around 7 
ounces and the brake handle is equipped with a 
hole in which your fish-hook may be inserted 
when carrying from place to place along the 
water. When carried in your pack this duralu- 
min reel is most compact, light in weight, and 
keeps your line wound up on the drum all the 
time. It is not a bulky or heavy reel, as many 
automatics are, and is the best reel that you 
can find for everything but plug casting. For 
this purpose a casting reel will be necessary. 

Leaders, flies, swivels, snelled hooks, B-B 
shot and heavier sinkers, artificial lures, and 
even porkrinds may make up the contents of 
your tackle box, depending a great deal on 
personal whims and the country you will fish. 
Flies on No. 10 and 12 hooks in the less flashy 
colors will be the most dependable, and some of 
the following will almost always be found in the 
fly fisherman's book: Brown and Gray Hackles, 
Professor, Coachman, Royal Coachman, Cow- 
dung, White Miller, Black Gnat, the Dun in 
great varieties, Cahill, Queen of the Water, and 
so on. A fly case of aluminum, lined with cork 
and felt to absorb moisture, makes the most 
secure place to carry your flies. 

About the merits of wooden plugs and buck- 
tail bugs and whatnots in the line of artificial 
lures, there is neither time nor place here to 
discuss. The author has found the Rush Tango 
as successful as any spinnerless plug or wobbler, 
and any of the South Bend wooden minnows 
220 



HUNTING AND FISHING EQUIPMENT 

with spinners are excellent. Likewise the spin- 
ners to which a strip of porkrind is attached are 
killers. So much depends on locality and local 
fish idiosyncrasies and the weather and the 
fisherman, that specific advice is not easy. 

Many messes of sunnies and rockies and bull- 
heads and the plebeians have graced our roadside 
dining table and were caught on a garden hackle, 
to be more specific, and angle worm. In early 
spring the trout will take worms more greedily 
than any other fish. Indeed, the trout is the 
notorious hog among all fishes. Of course, it is 
more sportsmanlike to take them on the fly and 
much prettier, but fishing for the autocamper 
resolves itself, not into an art, but a stern call of 
the stomach for fish upon the menu. Live 
minnows make excellent black bass bait, so do 
dobson or helagamites as these are called in 
some localities. 

There are other articles in the line of hunting 
and fishing equipment that will be in your outfit 
anyhow. Rubber boots, the Duxbak fisher- 
man's coat — recommended in the chapter on 
clothing as the best for autocamping — , fish 
basket — optional because you may not want to 
spare the room — , the pac boot for hunting, and 
various incidentals will be at hand because you 
are camping. 

Not so many years ago we never thought 
about taking our hunting and fishing equip- 
ment along when we went on a touring trip, 
but that was before the growth of that institu- 
tion in American life that began in the West 
and crept East — the avocation of autocamping. 
221 



AUTOCAMPING 

Soon after motor camping came into its own, the 
camper felt a thrill every time he passed through 
game and fish country in season, and it was not 
long before he listened to the call of the red gods 
along the road and took his hunting and fishing 
outfits. Personally they are as essential as my 
tent and bed. 

Here is the list of addresses and ofiicials from 
whom you may, by writing, obtain copies of 
game laws and information about shooting and 
fishing in the country you will autocamp: 

Alabama: Commissioner Conservation, Mont- 
gomery. 

Arizona: State Game Warden, Phoenix. 

Arkansas: Secretary, Game and Fish Commis- 
sion, Little Rock. 

California: Executive Officer, Game and Fish 
Commission, Postal Telegraph Building, 
San Francisco. 

Colorado: State Game and Fish Commission, 
Denver. 

Connecticut: Secretary, Commission of Fisher- 
ies and Game, Hartford. 

Canada: Alberta, Chief Game Guardian, Ed- 
monton. 
British Columbia, Secretary, Game Con- 
servation board, Vancouver. 
Manitoba: Chief Game Guardian, Winnepeg. 
New Brunswick: Chief Game and Fire 

Warden, Fredericton. 
Northwest Territories: Commissioner Parks, 
Ottawa. 



HUNTING AND FISHING EQUIPMENT 

Nova Scotia: Chief Game Commissioner, 

Halifax. 
Ontario: Superintendent Game and Fisheries, 

Toronto. 
Quebec: General Inspector Fisheries and 

Game, Quebec. 
Saskatchewan: Chief Game Guardian, Re- 
gina. 

Delaware: Chief Game Warden, Dover. 

District of Columbia: Superintendent Metro- 
politan Police, Washington. 

Florida: Secretary State, Tallahassee. 

Georgia: Game and Fish Commissioner, At- 
lanta. 

Idaho: Fish and Game Warden, Boise. 

Illinois: Chief Fish and Game Warden, Spring- 
field. 

Indiana: Superintendent, Division Fisheries and 
Game, State House, Indianapolis. 

Iowa: State Fish and Game Warden, Lansing. 

Kansas: State Fish and Game Warden, Pratt. 

Kentucky: Executive Agent, Game and Fish 
Commission, Frankfort. 

Louisiana: Commissioner Conservation, Court 
Building, New Orleans. 

Maine: Commissioner Inland Fisheries and 
Game, State House, Augusta. 

Maryland: State Game Warden, Munsey Build- 
ing, Baltimore. 

Massachusetts: Director, Division of Fisheries 
and Game, State House, Boston. 

Michigan: Commissioner Game, Fish, and For- 
est Fire Department, Lansing. 
223 



AUTOCAMPING 

Minnesota: Game and Fish Commissioner, St. 
Paul. 

Mississippi: Secretary State, Jackson. 

Missouri: Game and Fish Commissioner, Jef- 
ferson City. 

Montana: State Game Warden, Helena. 

Nebraska: Chief Deputy, Game and Fish Com- 
mission, Lincoln. 

Nevada: State Fish and Game Warden, Carson 
City. 

New Hampshire: Fish and Game Commis- 
sioner, Sunapee. 

New Jersey: Secretary, Board Fish and Game 
Commissioners, Trenton. 

New Mexico: Game and Fish Warden, Santa Fe. 

New York: Secretary, Conservation Commis- 
sion, Albany. 

North Carolina: Secretary State, Raleigh. 

North Dakota: Secretary, Game and Fish 
Board, Steele. 

Ohio: Chief Game Warden, Board Agriculture, 
Columbus. 

Oklahoma: State Game Warden, Oklahoma 
City. 

Oregon: State Game Warden, Portland. 

Pennsylvania: Secretary, Board Game Com- 
missioners, Harrisburg. 

Rhode Island: Chairman, Commissioner Birds, 
Providence. 

South Carolina : Chief Game Warden, Columbia. 

South Dakota: State Game Warden, Pierre. 

Tennessee: State Game and Fish Warden, 
Nashville. 

224 



HUNTING AND FISHING EQUIPMENT 

Texas: State Game, Fish, and Oyster Commis- 
sioner, Austin. 

Utah: Fish and Game Commissioner, Salt Lake 
City. 

Vermont: Fish and Game Commissioner, Mont- 
peher. 

Virginia: Commissioner Inland Game and Fish- 
eries, Richmond. 

Washington: Chief Game Warden and State 
Fish Commissioner, Seattle; Chief Deputy 
Game Warden, Takima. 

West Virginia : Forest, Game, and Fish Warden, 
Elkins. 

Wisconsin: Secretary Conservation Commis- 
sion, Madison. 

Wyoming: State Game Warden, Cheyenne. 



225 



Chapter XVI 
Packing Your Gasoline Burro 

EXPERIENCE will early prove that a bigger 
problem for the autocamper than selecting 
equipment will be the feat of efficiently 
packing the outfit upon his gasoline burro's 
anatomy. This is, of course, making exception 
of the several trailers on the market purposely 
made for roadside hobnobbing, and the trailer's 
merits have been considered in another chapter. 
Indeed, when using the ordinary touring car for 
autocamping, or indeed any camping car, a big 
consideration for guiding your selection of 
equipment will be determined by the automobile 
you will use. 

With the size and style of car in mind, re- 
membering its power and its hill-climbing 
abilities and not forgetting its weaknesses if it 
has any, with all this in mind as your mariner's 
compass you are ready to sail the seas of equip- 
ment catalogues or sporting goods store counters. 
But this chapter must deal more with the car 
itself and its proper packing, while other chapters 
deal with the articles of equipment specifically. 

In the first place it must be set down as the 
corner stone that nothing in the packed equip- 
ment carried on the car shall cramp any pas- 
senger for plenty of room. In case but two 
people autocamp in a touring car, the packing 
226 



PACKING YOUR GASOLINE BURRO 

of the gasoline burro is a simple matter, for the 
roomy tonneau will open its mouth and swallow 
all your outfit in a single gulp. But with a 
family or several people the matter of packing 
calls for real ingenuity and careful planning. 

The favorite place for excess baggage or camp- 
ing equipment has come to be the running board 
of the car, not otherwise equipped for carrying 
trunks and bundles on carriers at front or in the 
rear. The luggage carrier of the folding type 
that clamps upon your running board has be- 
come so universally used for autocamping that it 
need only be mentioned as the best all-round 
means of keeping the equipment from sliding 
off the running board, which has sometimes not 
been possible when ropes or wires were used. This 
the writer sadly learned when the friction of a 
strong cable wire sawed it off at the point where 
it contacted with the vibrating fender of the 
automobile, and spilled in the roadway our pack 
basket and refrigerator basket. Luckily nothing 
was broken, so well had both been packed by my 
wife, and the refrigerator basket contained two 
quarts of cow's milk in ordinary milk bottles 
and a quart glass jar of modified milk for our 
six months* babe. The strapped and locked 
refrigerator basket and the poncho always tied 
on top of the pack basket saved us except for 
external damage to both baskets, which skidded 
along the macadam road a good twenty feet. 
Thus the author learned his luggage carrier 
lesson. The Stoll Luggage Carrier is especially 
built for the autocamper. 

Some autocampers ask if there is any luggage 
227 



AUTOCAMPING 

carrier built that will protect the side of the car 
from chafing. For protecting the finish of the 
finest car, let me recommend the Loxtite Lug- 
gage Carrier. This will carry everything from 
a trunk to a golf bag, size and shape make no 
difference, and everything is automatically 
locked tightly in place so that it absolutely can- 
not move. Furthermore, this carrier is hardly 
noticeable on your car when not in use and takes 
up practically no space. 

The Clark luggage carrier is a hinged rail with 
aluminum doorsteps for the uprights, hence, 
when folded down in everyday use, you simply 




The Loxtite Luggage Carrier carries anything from a trunk to golf bags and 
does not mar the car 



PACKING YOUR GASOLINE BURRO 

have your luggage carrier disguised as spiffy 
aluminum car steps on your running board. 

A very excellent plan for carrying equipment 
on the running board is the Autopack, which is a 
canvas pack three feet long, two feet high, and 
nine inches deep, the bottom resting on the 
running board and the top clamped upon the 
side of your car by felt padded hooks that will 
not mar the gloss of the varnish. This allows 
equipment of variable quantity and shape to be 
readily packed in a water-proof place. The 
Autopack may be readily removed from the 
running board and the duffle carried anywhere 
to the point where the contents will be utilized 
in roadside housekeeping. 

Usually it will be necessary to pack both 
running boards, although this will be somew^hat 
inconvenient for the passengers when entering 
the car. A good plan is to keep a high and long 
folding luggage carrier on the driver's side of the 
car and never open doors on this side, piling the 
carrier to capacity. The other running board 
may only be loaded when the passengers have 
entered the tonneau, and then only the rear 
door blocked shut. Somehow it's very easy 
when you are autocamping to learn the feat of 
climbing in and out over equipment, and even 
the women, likely wearing riding breeches or 
hunting skirt and bloomers, seem to delight in a 
chance to scramble about like squirrels on a 
picnic. Hence the much-loaded running board 
is not the obstacle that it may sound when you 
sit snugly at home reading about it. 

Certain it is that you must not load one 
229 



AUTOCAMPING 

running board, or one side of the car, greatly in 
excess of the other. Generally the equipment 
piled high in the luggage carrier may be selected 
for counterbalancing a heavily packed basket or 
pack on the other side. On several trips my 
heavily loaded running board was balanced by 
the one adult in the rear seat keeping to the 
opposite side. Balance of load must be re- 
membered when you are packing, and even then 
a broken spring may come to give you extra 
thrills, as it did the author recently when 
taking a well loaded outfit over a bad detour. 
But this was not the result of my autocamping 
equipment, for the whole net load of the car, in- 
cluding three adults and two children was 
carefully weighed before we started and found 
to be only seven hundred pounds, certainly not 
an over-load for a small car. But a broken rear 
spring sort of gives you your post-graduate 
course in autocamping and car packing, even if 
that load you are sure was not the cause of the 
mishap, and when you wiggle out of a back- 
woods and garageless country with a "crow- 
bar" and an inch iron pipe substituting for the 
spring, said substitution being the handiwork of 
the autocamper himself, then indeed you have 
won a higher degree in the university of roadside 
camping. 

Personally I have never camped in the last 
seven years without taking my pack basket, in 
spite of the protests of the women folks who 
maintain that when they want anything it is 
always at the bottom of the basket. But in a 
sense this is true of any container that you 

230 



PACKING YOUR GASOLINE BURRO 

may name that is efficient for autocamping. 
The typical pack basket is a product of the 
Adirondack Mountains where the sight of the 
basket is more common than a canoe, even in 
this much- watered country. Pack baskets are 
used to carry groceries in the Adirondacks, by 
the lumberjacks (indeed the "lumberjack's 
suitcase" is the North Country name for the 
pack basket), and by autocampers who are 
flavored with Adirondack habits. 

A first-class pack basket is made by Indians 
from black ash splints and fitted with a leather 
harness. This harness is not essential for auto- 
camping, although it does help somewhat in 
securing the basket to the car, and if you need to 
carry supplies from a little distance to your 
roadside camp, then the pack basket can do it as 
well or better than any other pack or means of 
carrying burdens on the human frame. Of course, 
the essential purpose of the pack basket is to 
tote loads into the backwoods carried upon the 
back, the straps holding the basket upon the 
shoulders and resting against the length of your 
back. The pack basket is very easily secured on 
the running board of the car with a luggage 
carrier, and for short trips may be secured 
quickly and safely with a single wire or small 
rope. In it you may pack fishing and hunting 
equipment, cooking utensils, canned or boxed 
bulk food, extra clothing, flash lamps, candles, 
and indeed it makes the ideal "catch-all" for 
everything you can't put somewhere else. 

A pack basket that fits the autocamper's 
needs in almost ideal shape is the brown water- 
231 



AUTOCAMPING 

proof canvas-covered basket made by the 
Stoneb ridge concern. Naturally an uncovered 
pack basket, even with poncho tied over it, is 
not dust-proof, mud-proof, or absolutely water- 
proof. The Stonebridge covered basket is all 
three. Pack baskets come in various sizes and 
only the larger will be best for autocamping, the 
one used by the author being about 24 inches 
high, 12 inches thick, and 18 inches wide, 
slightly smaller at the top than at the bottom, 
giving stability, and being the typical shape of the 
true Adirondack basket. Do not trust a basket 
made in any other shape, especially with 
straight sides and the top as large as, or larger 
than, the base. The standard pack basket holds 
about one bushel, and after you have practiced 
packing one a few times you may put into it 
seemingly several bushels of autocamping odds- 
and-ends. 

Next after the pack basket for autocamping 
utility the various cylindrical and rectangular 
and odd shaped packs may be considered, 
although there are many who swear by these and 
scoff at the pack basket, mainly those who have 
never personally met and fallen in love with the 
Adirondack pack basket in its natural habitat. 
The Gold Medal pack, known as a Luggage 
Carrier, is a pair of canvas barrels telescoping 
together, each half being cylindrical in shape 
and 36 inches long by 18 inches in diameter. It 
is made from extremely heavy duck canvas and 
equipped with strong carrying handles at each 
end as well as a ring and rope lacing system for 
holding the two parts together. This Luggage 
232 



PACKING YOUR GASOLINE BURRO 

Carrier may be easily carried on the running 
board and affords room for bedding and toilet 
articles as well as the "hundred and one'* 
articles. Of course when you carry a bed that 
rolls up, your bedding may be carried inside this 
bundle. 

Other excellent packs are the regular Ditty 
Bags of the U. S. Navy, the Appalachian Pack 
(rectangular in shape and carried by two straps 
like a pack basket), the Security Duffle Bag 
(very much like the Gold Medal but without the 
telescoping capacity). Food Bags made by the 
Stonebridge people. Haversacks, Ruck Sacks, 
Nessmuck Packs, and many others that may be 
adopted for motor camping. There are several 
excellent packs made purposely for the tourist 
and the A. B. C. Tourist Bag is excellent in any 
size, ranging from 10 inches to 18 inches in 
diameter, 24 inches to 36 inches in length, and 
made from a chemically treated double filled 
light-weight fabric that will not allow moisture 
to pass. These bags may be had with endless 
strap handles, carrying the load balanced, as well 
as a handle on the bottom. 

The Burch Duplex folding canvas-covered 
baskets are excellent autocamping luggage 
carriers, being water-proof so that in emergency 
water may be carried in them or even food 
packed in ice. The better autocamping size is 
18 inches long by 11 inches wide, and the same 
in depth. There is likewise a Burch Duffle Bag, 
something on the same plan as the Ditty Bag. 

Many build their own running board carriers 
of wood, covering an ordinary dry goods box with 
233 



AUTOCAMPING 

rubberized cloth, and all kinds of unique shapes 
and sizes are tooted as the best by the builders. 
On one trip the author tried a homemade affair 
and swore never again to indulge, for if you get 
them water-proof they are pretty likely not to 
be dust- and sand-proof, besides a black box on 
the running board does not lend itself to being 
readily taken off and used for other purposes, as 
do almost any kind of baskets, packs, and 
luggage carriers purposely made for your con- 
venience. 

In the East you will see the suitcase as a 
prominent part of the autocamping equipment, 
but Eastern camping is about the only kind where 
this carrier is permissible. For clothing, especially 
changes and children's outfits and the extras, 
there is no better place than the suitcase, and if 
by chance you should want to "dress up" at 
some place, the suitcase is about your best valet. 
In the West you will not see the suitcase behind 
the picket fence of the luggage carrier on the 
running boards, because there nobody thinks of 
dressing up. In the East folks are still a little 
shy sometimes about the propriety of appearing 
in outdoor togs, but this is most rapidly passing, 
and the natty outdoor clothing now made gives 
the autocamper and his family a most fascinating 
garment, both from the standpoint of utility and 
appearance. The author has on several trips 
carried two suitcases, and once even three, the 
small children in the family being the alibi. 

On the subject of containers for equipment 
should be considered the water carrier for the 
autocamper. In the East the streams are often 
234 



PACKING YOUR GASOLINE BURRO 

polluted by sewage, although the hundreds and 
thousands of backwoods brooks are not (but 
those back country hotels may break that rule). 
In the West, water is a real problem from the 
alkali and other desert water hazzards to foul 
valley water in general in certain sections. 
Water in California is mostly good drinking 
spring water, but in the valleys at some places 
it is certainly painful. The water container in 
some form ought to be a part of the motor 
camper's outfit. It is an imperative part 
of the equipment for the Western autocamper. 

There are several water bags and their con- 
struction is so simple that space need not be 
given. A new style of bag allows for space to 
put in butter and milk or perishable food and 
keep it preserved not only by the coldness of the 
water, which isn't cold on a desert road, but more 
from evaporation, one of the best means of 
refrigeration. There are several canteens and 
canvas-covered jugs and bottles utilized for 
water-carrying. 

The ideal equipment for the autocamper is 
known as the Auxiliary Tank, made purposely 
for the tourist. It carries on the running board 
a reserve of gasoline, oil, and water. The 
gasoline autocan is painted red and stenciled 
"Gasoline," the oil section is blue, and the 
water unit is cloth-covered. The three parts 
are shaped like a cylindrical can cut lengthwise a 
little to one side of the diameter, and this flat 
surface, really the bottom, fits upon the running 
board. The Auxiliary Tank is one complete unit 
as far as attachment to the car is concerned, and 
235 



AUTOCAMPING 

the danger of losing caps is eliminated by a top 
bar strapped securely in place. 

There are several folding water buckets, 
mostly made of canvas, which will take little 
space for packing and will carry your spring water 
to camp or fill the radiator. The Gold Medal 
people make several styles of folding buckets, 
pails, and basins. There is even a folding wash 
stand and bathtub in the Folding Family. The 
Burch people make folding Duplex pails and 
basins, and there are several others. Indeed the 
folding equipment for the autocamper runs to a 
regular epidemic, and strange as the uninitiated 
may believe, there is not a single "luxury" in the 
collapsible line after you have once auto- 
camped and tried them. 

Indeed, the great avocation of autocamping is 
mainly made possible by folding beds and stoves 
and tents and buckets and baskets and the rest. 
Your roadside housekeeping is done with a 
whole Folding Family, from cooking utensils to 
tent-bed and baby motor crib. The efficiency 
of packing your outfit on the car will depend 
in a large degree upon the wise selection of 
folding outfits for economy of space and light 
weight. 

After the available space on the running 
boards has been monopolized with packed equip- 
ment, you simply have to put the remainder 
inside or on top of the car. On top of the car is 
not a joke, and in the case of a sedan or enclosed 
car a rail and luggage carrier may carry your 
duffle. At least one 6,000-mile autocamping 
trip through the West was taken by a veteran 
236 



PACKING YOUR GASOLINE BURRO 

aiitocamper with part of his outfit on the upper 
deck of a sedan. 

The space most used, of course, will be the 
tonneau and that portion of the rear seat not 
occupied. If you have small children you may 
take up part of this space with a motor crib, and 
the Gordon crib has proven most successful with 
our youngster, both from the standpoint of 
safety and comfort and also from the vantage 
of a minimum of space required to swing it so 
that the babe is held on resilient spring tension 
just as in a baby buggy on the sidewalk. It has 
seemed to me that hammocks swung from the 
car top have anchorage too far from the fulcrum 
of the throw leverage and tend to jounce more 
than the Gordon. 

In the tonneau you may pack some bundle in 
place of the foot rail. This rail is always re- 
moved from the author's small car when auto- 
camping and in its place is put a Gold Medal 
folded double cot bed or the folded lunch table. 
Often folded furniture that is not placed on the 
running board, as well as tents and beds in their 
bags, may be stood on end in the tonneau and so 
take up less floor space, which is at a premium. 
Sometimes some part of the outfit may be 
secured to the top of the car, attached to the 
frame, but it must be something light and 
compact. Folded wood stoves or gasoline stoves 
may be set on the floor of the tonneau between 
the feet of the passengers and a thin package 
may be placed against the rear seat and where it 
will be behind the feet and legs of the passengers. 
On several trips my rolled tent and air bed have 
237 



AUTOCAMPING 

carried out on the front of the car, one on each 
side, wedged in between the front fender and the 
hood. A car thus loaded does not put in a very 
pleasing appearance when you go through a 
town and looks loaded to the ears, but the truth 
is that a well distributed outside load is no more 
strain to the automobile and gives all the room 
inside to the passengers. 

Under the rear seat is another favorite cavity 
that is filled to capacity. The minimum of tools 
and accessories for the car should be packed con- 
veniently in one end and none of the camping 
equipment put on top. Under the rear seat may 
be carried the tent poles and pins, folded wood 
stove or gasoline stove, or tank for acetylene 
stove and lamp (such as the Prest-0-Lite) , or 
folded chairs, table, water buckets, old clothing 
for emergency, first-aid kit, etc. Extra blankets 
may be folded and put upon the car seat. Grids, 
broilers, reflector baker stoves, flat folding 
simple wood stoves, and the like, may be placed 
under the floor rug of the car. The camera ought 
to be carried in its case or bag in the seat between 
passengers where it may be instantly ready for 
use. The Game Getter in game country should 
be in a handy place likewise. The camp ax and 
fishing tackle do not need to be placed in a 
position for instant use, but ought not to be 
packed "too deep." The pockets of the car will 
hold a surprising amount of equipment; the big 
plumber's candles, drinking cups, flash lamps, 
small tools and utensils, cap and sun or sand 
goggles, maps, gloves, compass, hunting knife, 
and a dozen others. 

238 



i 



PACKING YOUR GASOLINE BURRO 

Then there are carriers that may be placed on 
the rear or even over the front fender of the car, 
upon which everything from car bed and tent- 
beds, to steamer trunks, suitcases, pack bags and 
baskets, and the heavier articles, may be carried. 

Certain it is that every outfit ought to be 
packed in your mind before you start — several 
days before you start. This will depend on the 
number in the party. Take two cars or less folks 
rather than '*bite off more than you can chew," 
and perhaps spoil the flavor of autocamping by 
bad packing and congested quarters. 

A whole chapter might be written on the care 
of the car and its operation, but this is essentially 
not one of the primary problems of autocamping, 
because likely ninety-nine out of every ninety- 
nine autocampers have become accustomed to the 
automobile before the autocamping adventure. 
There is one thing that ought to be written red in 
the Autocamper's Decalogue, "Make Sure Your 
Car Is In Perfect Condition Before You Start.'* 

One might think from reading this one chapter 
alone that the autocamper went out loaded like a 
load of new hay. But this is not common. There 
are so many compact outfits on the market 
today that fold into such compact space, that 
often everything may be carried on just one 
running board and under the rear seat. With a 
small car the problem is naturally different and 
there are many ways and means of throwing the 
diamond hitch over your gasoline burro and 
cinching it into place to stay with you through 
the bad lands and the buttes and the desert's 
flour sand, until you reach your destination. 
239 



Chapter XVII 

The Ethics of Autocamping and Road 
Lore 

IF THERE is any message in this book that 
I would sear with words deeply grooved into 
the plastic record of the brain so that it could 
never be forgotten, it would be this: Autocamp 
upon others as you would have others autocamp 
upon you. This ought to be the Golden Rule — 
or the Gasoline Rule — of motor camping. 

The ethics of autocamping are simply little 
rules of proper motoring conduct that must be 
observed, or else autocamping is bound to be 
speedily hedged in with restrictions, both 
judicial and prejudicial. To thousands these 
words of warning will fall on heedless ears. Is 
not the country open wide to the roadside 
camper? Are there not public parks and camp- 
ing grounds? Do not automobile clubs and 
guide-book makers and map compilers and 
highway associations stretch out beckoning 
hands and bid us welcome? Do not farmers 
camp us in their yards and fields? Do not 
school yards and state lands and National 
Forests and Parks bid us enjoy their hos- 
pitality? 

They do. This today is because autocamping 
is just an infant and many of the organizations 
that encourage this avocation are the wet- 
240 



ETHICS IN AUTOCAMPING 

nurse of the infant. But more than that, every- 
body loves to fondle a budding youngster in all 
his newness, and autocamping today is just that 
budding youngster. 

Autocamping puts responsibility upon you. 
The responsibility to leave your camping site 
in as good condition as you found it, or better. 
To see that your presence in a country or com- 
munity does not constitute a public nuisance. 
To see that the hospitality extended is not 
trampled under foot. 

One of the biggest complaints brought to the 
door of the roadside camper for settlement is the 
old song that starts: He Litters Up The Land- 
scape. It is most important to see that about 
camp no papers and rubbish collect. Burn all 
that flames will lick up of the debris and bury 
the remainder. Last summer I found a beautiful 
natural camping site on state land where 
previous camping parties had rendered it un- 
campable by poor toilet arrangements. It was 
a shame and a crime. 

As time goes on our legislatures are going to 
limit autocamping if we cannot stop the careless 
camper. In the backwoods men are either 
woodsmen or dubs. And in autocamping folks 
may be either autocampers or grubs. There is 
nobody to stop the fellow that can't stand the 
lack of conventional restraint when he wants to 
become a Vandal, and nowhere will his mettle 
and his character be put to the test as when 
motor camping far from home on a camp site 
possessed with very little effort, because of either 
private generosity or quasi-public provision's 
16 241 



AUTOCAMPING 

But nine out of ten cases that have come to 
my attention were pure thoughtlessness and plain 
carelessness. When a break of ethical laws is 
not willful and vicious there is always room for 
hope. And autocamping leaves a great big 
roomy auditorium of hopefulness. Suppose we 
sign a pledge or make a written resolve or tie a 
string about our fingers — anything to make us 
remember to be careful, considerate, and to 
autocamp upon the lands of others as we would 
have others camp on our own land. 

Let us remember not to locate camps and to 
leave tents flapping so that horses passing will be 
frightened. Camping grounds should be cleaned 
of papers, tin cans, bottles, cast-off clothing, and 
all debris before leaving. When not in a locality 
where pits or debris receptacles are available, 
bury what will not burn. Have a toilet tent — 
purposely made by several builders — or some 
arrangement for this that will not pollute waters 
or taint the air after you are miles away and 
another party camps in the same place. Fires 
should not be kindled near trees, dead wood, 
moss, dry leaves, forest mold, but in an adequate 
camp stove or on bare ground or rocks. Your 
tent stoves should be equipped with spark 
arresters. Special care is necessary to prevent 
lighted cigars, cirgarettes, and matches from 
being thrown from your moving car, or about 
your camp ground, where they will ignite grass, 
leaves, or anything that may be combustible. 

So much depends on the careful conduct of 
the autocamper that the next few years are sure 
to decide the status of the open road camper. 
242 



ETHICS IN AUTOCAMPING 

It will be like the early days of the automobile. 
First people were amused, then interested, then 
tolerant, then angry, and then hedged motor 
vehicles about with iron-clad laws. The same 
may be true of autocamping. We are just 
getting through the amused stage with flying 
colors and people are fired with interest. This 
enthusiasm must not run amuck! 

To date I have never once been refused per- 
mission to camp on a farmer's property, but that 
may have been luck or the ability of my wife to 
instinctively select the upstanding, progressive, 
liberal-minded ruralist. But I believe it was 
because the farmer welcomes the motor camper, 
and since he keeps to the highway he is not 
suspicious of the autocamper. Autocamping is a 
novelty to the farmer and it is fascinating. I 
know several farmers who have become in- 
veterate autocampers. Recently a friend wished 
to camp near a farm house in Canada and dis- 
covered that the whole countryside spoke 
French. That night he camped by urgent 
invitation in the very dooryard of a French- 
Canadian farmer, the invitation to camp having 
all been given in the sign language. 

My favorite camp site, when not in the country 
of the public motor camping park, is the farm. 
Camp near a farm and you are situated for 
obtaining fresh cow's milk, and butter, and 
berries, and fresh fruit, and vegetables. You 
are at the base of supplies of this nation. For a 
pittance you fill up your refrigerator basket from 
day to day with the fruit of the earth. In the 
East this sort of autocamp site is most popular. 
243 



AUTOCAMPING 

When no farm or public autocamping ground 
presents, you may housekeep upon seme school 
yard. Generally this is fairly near a farm house. 
It is a good plan to always ask at a nearby farm 
dwelling where the school trustee lives, and if 
near, to get his permission. Usually there are 
toilet facilities handy near the school building 
or in it, and last season I found a great many 
school houses unlocked and equipped with 
excellent inside toilets. Such comfort stations 
are public and will be thrown open to us auto- 
campers as long as we can merit the privilege. 
In several school yard camp sites we have joined 
with others to form a small camp city for several 
days. 

Akin to the school yard, which in a sense 
belongs to the public, is the state land and 
national holdings throughout the length and 
latitude of our country. In the East there are 
the parks of the Adirondacks, Catskills, and 
indeed about every mountain range has state- 
owned lands, some of them national. In the West 
there are the seventeen National Parks and the 
National Forests open to motor camping for the 
day or the season. Usually you are at liberty 
to camp on public land so long as you do not 
put up a permanent structure or use anything 
for fuel but dead timber. 

By far the most unique camp site is the auto- 
camping park set aside purposely by city, town, 
or village. Municipal parks for camping started 
in the West and, defying the ancient law of 
civilization movements, crept slowly eastward. 
Overland Park, Denver, Colorado, was the 
244 



i 




1 On the Montana Route of National Parks Road 

2 Overland Park, Denver. Colorado 

3 Southern California Public Camp Ground 

4 Public Camping Park, Spokane, Washington 

245 



AUTOCAMPING 

progenitor of the aiitocamping park. The city 
of Denver purchased 160 acres of hind along the 
Platte river for this purpose in 1920. Over half 
of this area is wooded with maples, cottonwoods, 
and other trees. There is a large three-story 
club house located in the park, with twenty- 
four rooms, a concessionnaire being in charge of 
all departments which supply commercial articles 
for autocampers. There is in this building a 
complete grocery store and meat market, a 
kitchen, grill, and lunch counter, steam table 
from which foods are dispensed, billiard room, 
barber shop, men's showers and comfort stations, 
women's showers and comfort stations, laundry 
room with eight tubs, lounging room, and 
lockers. The city engineers have surveyed 800 
lots in the park, each 25x35 feet, and located so 
that no camper is more than 150 feet from a city 
water hydrant. The autocamp is lighted by 
electricity from the city lines. Several comfort 
stations are located about the park. There is a 
garage building and automobile repair shop and 
a motion picture theater, as well as a filling 
station and accessory store near the entrance to 
Overland Park. 

Spokane, Washington, has another typical 
motor camping park, offering to the auto- 
camper free shade, free water, free fuel, cooking 
facilities, laundry facilities, bathing facilities; 
and thoroughly policed and protected. This 
park entertains about as many as Overland at 
Denver, extending hospitality each year to 
10,000 cars with four or five people to the car, 
and each car averaging two days' stay. In 

246 



ETHICS IN AUTOCAMPING 

some parks the camper remains all through the 
season, taking side trips frequently into scenic 
country, with which our West is blessed like a 
fairyland of wonders. There are hundreds of 
autocamping parks fully equipped, like Denver 
and Spokane, and there are thousands of other 
parks in the Northwest, West, and Southwest, 
as well as the Middle West, and the East, where 
an autocamping site is offered with only part of 
the facilities. Frequently there is the lack of 
bathing and laundry facilities. Generally there 
are water, cooking facilities, and sometimes fuel. 
Almost every autocamping park, and many 
highways, East and West, are equipped with 
fireplaces and stoves for the autocamper. Be- 
sides municipal parks specially furnished for 
autocamping, there are today accommodations 
by the hundreds in our National Forests of the 
West, as well as the Pisgah National Forest, 
North Carolina, and the White Mountain 
National Forest, New Hampshire. Further- 
more, three states at least have state parks with 
places set aside for the camping public — 
Pennsylvania, Minnesota, and Wisconsin. Then 
almost every state in the Union has state lands, 
generally in watered and in mountain regions 
that may be freely improvised for autocamping. 
Detailed and specific information may be 
obtained by writing various organizations. The 
United States Forestry Service, Information 
Department, Washington, D. C, will tell you 
about any of the National Parks and Forests. 
The Tourist and Publicity Bureau, 623 Seven- 
teenth Street, Denver, Colorado, will inform you 
247 



AUTOCAMPING 

about all the country and camping facilities 
radiating from Colorado. The great Northwest 
playground will be opened to you by com- 
municating with the National Parks Highway 
Association, Spokane, Washington. The sunny 
Southwest is an open book to the Automobile 
Club of Southern California, 1344 South 
Figueroa Street, Los Angeles, California. Any 
state information may be secured by writing the 
conservation commission or game wardens listed 
at the end of my chapter on hunting and 
fishing equipment. And the roads are full of 
automobile clubs and travel associations ready 
to assist. The public libraries in our larger 
cities, our map makers, and road directory 
compilers, and outdoor magazines, and tourist 
booklets — there are thousands of these ready to 
give you information for the asking. Many 
Canadian cities now have motor camping parks, 
and this country offers boundless opportunities 
for roadside housekeeping. 

The average autocamper will be content with 
a trip over the roads of his native country. 
But more and more frequently he will strike 
cross-continent, or go South in winter, or else 
North in summer for his roadside vacation 
avocation. The Lincoln Highway from New 
York to San Fransicso, laid out in 1913, is the 
shortest route from coast to coast, making the 
distance in 3,305 miles, and if lacking in scenic 
beauty what some of the more northern or 
southern routes boast, it makes up for this in 
ease of road grades and in shorter distance. The 
Lincoln Way goes from New York to Pittsburgh, 

248 



ETHICS IN AUTOCAMPING 

skirts Chicago, goes through Omaha, Cheyenne, 
Salt Lake City, and ends at San Francisco. 
Through the high passes of the Sierras near 
Lake Tahoe the highway is closed several 
months each year by snow, however this will 
be at a season when autocamping is hibernating 
anyhow, or easy detours may be found. 

The northern cross-continent highways are 
the Yellowstone Trail and the National Parks 
Highway, which coincide in many places and 
frequently cross. The Yellowstone boasts of a 
highway from Plymouth Rock to far Puget 
Sound, although the real highway starts at 
Chicago, the eastern end following roads already 
constructed. Of course, the trail itself does ex- 
tend from coast to coast. Starting at Plymouth, 
Massachusetts, the Yellowstone Trail goes 
through Boston and Springfield, into New York 
State from Albany to Buffalo, Cleveland (Ohio), 
Gary (Indiana), Chicago, on to Minneapolis and 
St. Paul, Aberdeen (South Dakota), on through 
Baker (Montana), Coeur d'Arlene (Idaho), to 
Spokane and Seattle. The trail does not go 
through the Yellowstone National Park, but 
oflFers side spurs to this region, as well as to 
Glacier and Rainier Parks and many other in- 
teresting places. 

The southern transcontinental highway is the 
National Old Trails Road, from Washington, D. 
C, to Kansas City and St. Louis, and then 
through the historic Southwest to Los Angeles. 
This route is best in the fall of the year. 

People who live in sections where hard- 
surfaced roads are at hand to take the auto- 
249 



AUTOCAMPING 

camper from one large city to another will have 
the impression that any of the cross-continent 
highways are the same. This is not true even of 
the Lincoln Highway itself, and indeed west of 
the Mississippi hard surface roads like those of 
the East are very rare. As time goes on this will 
be improved as rapidly as possible. The 
roads along the highways that are the main con- 
necting route of Atlantic and Pacific are kept in 
the best possible state of repair, with hard surfac- 
ing and paving going on as rapidly as possible. 
Some states of the West have put fine concrete 
roads through their limits along the main 
highways. Others will eventually. 

Specific information should be obtained from 
highway headquarters. The Yellowstone Trail 
Association is addressed at Minneapolis, Min- 
nesota, 337 Andrus Building. The Lincoln 
Highway Association is reached at Detroit, 
Michigan. The National Old Trails Road at 
New York City. The National Parks Highway 
Association at Spokane, Washington. The 
Automobile Club of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, California, will inform of almost all 
road conditions clear across the continent and 
especially of desert travel. 

All highway associations will supply you with 
complete road guides and the highways are 
thoroughly posted, the side trips getting the 
autocamper and tourist most frequently into 
trouble. The Blue Books, numbering 13 
volumes, are rather too bulky for use in a com- 
plete span of the continent; but some auto- 
campers swear by their Blue Book Bibles. 
250 



ETHICS IN AUTOCAMPING 

The TIB Route Books are excellent for the 
Middle West. Almost every city has a Tourist 
Bureau, and all of them a Chamber of Com- 
merce that will issue highway guides. The 
United States Geologic maps are gigantic 
"strip maps," likely too detailed for average use; 
although we have personally selected specific 
rectangles of these topographic maps for tours 
and found them most excellent. The "strip 
map" follows the Geologic map idea of giving 
much detail; however it gives this information 
onlj^ along the highway you are covering, and 
you are lost if you get off this main highway 
with your "strip map." Practically all the 
leading outdoor magazines are ready to supply 
you with highway information, some of them 
devoting departments to the new avocation of 
autocamping. 

Crossing the desert trails is mainly a problem 
of water, food, and fuel; and a problem, indeed, 
but one that is being solved more easily year by 
year. The Automobile Club of Southern 
California has already been mentioned as an 
authority on desert travel and has done pioneer 
work in posting and making the desert safe for 
autocamping and touring. The desert is not, 
as the uninitiated suppose, a barren place of 
monotony without verdure. The sandy stretches 
teem with a plant life, a flora peculiar to high 
temperature and arid conditions. 

It is always advisable to cross the desert high- 
ways in parties of two or more cars, each well 
stocked with an over-supply of grub, fuel, and 
water. The water container, little considered 
251 



AUTOCAMPING 

in the East, is here found to be more important 
than the food basket in the land of sun, sand, 
and soHtude. Many of the railroads have 
watering stations, and tourists may replenish 
at such places. Then there are water holes, 
wells, and springs. Frequently "sinks" have 
saved human lives from thirst, being merely 
natural reservoirs in the rock that have col- 
lected and kept rain water. There is a water- 
supplying plant also, the barrel cactus, each 
plant yielding about a gallon of rather sweetish 
water, and having many times been the life- 
saver of the traveler. Growing tules and bull- 
rushes always indicate the presence of water, 
and so does a tangle of dense arrowhead growing 
six or eight feet high. 

In crossing desert country you must provide 
two gallons of water per day for each person 
and a proportionate amount for the car. Natur- 
ally evaporation is very rapid and the dry air 
will not only rob your radiator, but also steal 
lubricating moisture from the automobile springs 
especially, and in dry desert country your car 
will roll along sounding like a whole bevy of 
squeaking mice or singing birds. Extra gasoline 
ought also to be carried, because you will use a 
great deal more than you think. The millions 
of chuck holes will caution you to drive slowly 
and in intermediate frequently. Desert water 
will generally need boiling to make it fit for 
drinking. Or one Halazone tablet added to each 
quart will purify it. Alkaline water is found in 
desert locations where water has acted as a 
solvent to mineral deposits. If no other drink- 
252 



ETHICS IN AUTOCAMPING 

ing water is possible, this may be made drink- 
able safely by one teaspoonful of muriatic 
(hydrochloric) acid added to each gallon of 
water. 

For safe desert travel one must have plenty of 
water containers, must carry a compass, and 
must know his country — location of fuel and 
water stations — must have a big reserve tank of 
gasoline and oil, and should start with either 
another who is familiar with desert road travel, 
or else be well informed by a competent organiza- 
tion. And when a sand storm prevails, camp 
until it is willing to allow you to go on. The 
best camp ground is at the base of a mountain 
where one can get into the canyons for water 
and as a cool retreat, and shelter from high winds 
and sand storms. Actually camping within the 
canyon may result in disaster from torrents 
sweeping down the basin. A campfire of wood 
is a luxury on the desert, and the gasoline or 
compressed acetylene gas stove comes into its 
own in desert travel. It goes without mention 
that every part of the outfit must be carried in 
as sand-proof a covering or container as possible. 
Sand varies from coarse grained material to fine 
flour sand that is a plaything of the winds and 
more persistent in getting into every nook and 
neck of the outfit than an army of insects. 



253 



INDEX 



Abscesses, 205 
Autopacks, 229 
Ax, 144 



Bedding: 

Eiderdown robe, 60 
Sleeping bags, 57-59 

Beds: 

Air, 48-52 
Auto bed, 54 
Bough bed, 45-48 
Car bed, 54-56 
Cots, 52-54 
Kapo, 52 
Tent-bed, 62-72 

Blue Books, 250 

Bottle, thermos, 148 



Camera, 183-98 
Camping cars: 

Kampkar, 181-82 

Livabout, 182 
Camp sites, 243-47 
Canvas, 24-26 
Carriers, running board, 233- 

34 
Children in camp, 160-69 
Clothing: 

Boots, 79 

Breeches. 75-76 

Cap, 78-79 

Coat, 78 

Children's, 82-83, 162-64 

List of, 81 

Raincoat, 80 

Shirt, 76 

Sweater, 79 



Clothing: 

Socks and stockings, 75 

Underclothing, 74-75 

Vest, 79 

Women's, 81-82 
Colds, 203 
Cooking utensils, 130-34 



Denver Tourist Publicity Bu- 
reau, 247-48 
Desert Travel, 251-53 
Diarrhea, 203 
Drowning, 207-208 



Eating on tour, 118-135 



Fishing tackle, 218-221 
First Aid Kit, 162, 199-200 
Food: 

Breadstuff s, 126-28 

Containers, 133-35 

Fish, 122-23, 216-17 

Game, 215-18 

Meat, 120-22, 123, 215-16 

Milk, 120 

Pie, 128 

Preparing food, 123-26 

Preserved food, etc., 129-30 

Ration list, 119 
Fractures, 205 
Furniture : 

Chairs, 141 

Combinations, 139-40, 147- 
48 

Cupboard, 142 

Tables, 136-39 

Washstand, 142 



ie54 



INDEX 



Game laws, where to get, 221- 

226 
Guns for camping, 211-214 



Heat exhauv«iti6n,-2p3 i 

Illumination: 

Aoetvlune gas, 152-55 
C'andl<-,'a51-52 
Electric. 16(5-56 
Flashlights; 156-58 
Gasoline, 15,2 - . 

Kerosene, 152 ' ; 



Knives, 145-46, 218 



Lights. vSee Illumination 
Lincoln Highway, 248-49, 250 
Luggage carriers, 227-29 

M 

Match box, 146 
N 
National Parks Highway, 

248, 250 

National Old Trails Road, 

249, 250 
Netting, 147 



Overland Park, 244-46 



Pack basket, 230-33 
Packs, 233 

Paper, toilet packets, 149 
Phonograph, 149 
Poison ivy, 203 



B 

Refrigerators: 
Basket, 106-16 
Running board, 117 
Trailer ice box, 116-17 

Rope, 146 

Route books, 251 

^tinning board carriers, 233- 

€?4 / • 

Running .bb;ird tanks, 235-36 

■ * S 

Shovel, 146 

Snake bi,te: 206 

Soutliesn '.California Auto 

V' Club.' 248, 250 
Spokane Camping Park, 246- 

47 
Sprains, 206 
Stoves: 

Acetj'lene gas, 94 

Canned heat, 102 

Gasoline gas, 86-94 

Grubstake, 104 

Kerosene, 94-95 

Reflector baker, 102-103 

Wood, 96-101 
Suitcase, 234 
Sunstroke, 203 



Tents. 

A-shape, 29 
Amazon, 30 
A. B. C, 38 
Auto Hobo, 4] 
Baker, 31 
Badger, 40 
Burch, 32-35 
Boston, 40 
Brooks, 38 
Carpenter, 40 
Chittim, 40-41 
Close-To-Nature, 42 
Des Moines, 39 
Forester's, 31 
Field, 38-39 



255 



INDEX 



Tents: 

Gypsy, 39 

Lean-to, 27-28 

Marquee, 36 

Metropolitan, 35-36 

Moto-tent, 40 

Outodoor, 41-42 

Rietschel, 42 

Stoll, 36 

Tepee, 31 

Toilet tents, 4^ 

Tarpaulin, 28-29 

Wall, 29-30 

Way-side, 41 

Weikert, 38 
Tent-bed: 

A. B. C, 64-08 

Berg, 72 

Campo, 69-70 

Dav-O-Tent, 68-69 

Gold Medal, 69 

Rush, 71 

Schaefer, 71-72 

Schilling, 70 

Stoll, 68, 70 

Tentobed, 70-71 



Trailers: 

Advisability using, 170-74 
Auto-Kamp, 179 
Auto-Tour, 178 
Adams, 174-76 
Carefree, 177-78 
ChenanKC, 178 
Curtis, 178 
Douglas,, 176-77 ^ 
Gypsy, 178 ^ 
Kamprite, 178 

United States Fcrcst Service: 
Infoimation, 247 

W 

Water bags, 234-35 
Water-proofing, 26-27 
Wounds, 204-205 



Yellowstone Trail, 249, 250 



Jtol-G' 



an 




tie 



(\ 



THE FREE LIBRARY OF PHILADELPHIA 



3 2222 07007 3046 



p^^l fur, (3^ nil 

The Free Library of Philadelphia 



The record below must not be altered \i 

by the borrower 









