SAMOAN HOUSE BUILDING, 
COOKING, AND TATTOOING 

BY 
E. S. CRAIGHILL HANDY 

AND 

WILLOWDEAN CHATTERSON HANDY 



Bernice P. Bishop Museum 
Bulletin 15 



HONOLULU, HAWAII 

PUBLISHED BY THE MUSEUM 

1924 



B528b 
no.15 



IGtbrarUB 




Styf (Sift of 









Nell Moore 



SAMOAN HOUSE BUILDING, 
COOKING, AND TATTOOING 

BY 

E. S. CRAIGHILL HANDY 

AND 

WILLOWDEAN CHATTERSON HANDY 



Bernice P. Bishop Museum 
Bulletin 15 



HONOLULU, HAWAII 

PUBLISHED by the museum 

1924 



CONTENTS 

Page 

Introduction 3 

Samoan house forms and house building 4 

The long house 4 

The round house II 

Sennit lashings 13 

Feasts 14 

Uses 14 

Furniture 15 

Carpenters' guild 15 

Terms used in construction 17 

The Samoan cooking day 19 

Samoan tattooing 21 



ILLUSTRATIONS 

Page 

Plate I. Samoan house forms Following 26 

II. Details of construction, long house " 26 

III. Interior views of long house " 26 

IV. Samoan round house and general views " 26 

V. Samoan cooking " 26 

VI. Samoan tattooing designs' " 26 

VII. Samoan tattooing _ " 26 



Figure i. Construction of long house 6 

2. Construction of round house 10 

3. Details of house construction 12 

4. Samoan cooking utensils 19 

5. Instruments used in tattooing 23 



So 7Y 






Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

LYRASIS Members and Sloan Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/samoanhousebuildOOhand 



SAMOAN HOUSE BUILDING, COOKING, 
AND TATTOOING 



By E. S. Craighill Handy and Willowdean C. Handy 



. INTRODUCTION 

So unaltered by European civilization are many of the native crafts and 
customs of Samoa that even a short visit to Tutuila and Upolu in 1923 
offered exceptional opportunities for ethnological research. The facility 
with which a contemporary culture may be observed and described was 
augmented by the aid of a friendly chief, Le Au Pepe of Fasitoo Uta, 
who summoned from his people the natives whom we wished to question 
about their various professions. Practices which we had not found in 
operation on our chance visits here and there, he caused to be demon- 
strated for us. Of the notes accumulated, those on house forms and 
house building, on cooking, and on tattooing seem to make pictures com- 
plete enough to warrant publication. 

Samoan tattooing presents not so much of artistic as of ethnologic 
interest, for it is a striking example of the conventionalization of a native 
art which seems to have preserved its stereotyped form and adhered to 
its laws of practice for generations unnumbered. As it was in the begin- 
ning, it apparently is now. 

Life is still vital enough for these islanders to make the heavy labor en- 
tailed in the traditional preparation of native foods seem worth while. Fruits, 
tubers, and leaves are still sought in the uplands, and the ancestral dishes 
are still relished. Every member of each family has some part in these 
labors and every one is an artist, deft fingers making beautiful the sim- 
plest process of food preparation. The use of modern canned goods has 
made but little progress. 

It may be said with confidence that nowhere in Polynesia today is 
the opportunity for studying native house building better than in Samoa. 
With the same admirable tenacity shown in maintaining their own mode 
of social and political life, the natives of this island group continue to 
prefer their own form of dwelling, and wisely, for it combines perfect 
adaptation to environment with simplicity and beauty of fine craftsmanship. 



4 Bernice P. Bishop Museum — Bulletin 

An elaborate dwelling or council house of a chief — all its parts carefully 
cut and fitted and tied with brilliant vari-colored ornamental sennit lash- 
ings, its beams polished or varnished — is a true work of art, worthy of a 
guild whose ideals of perfection have been passed down from generation 
to generation through many centuries. 

During our stay, a number of houses in various stages of construction 
were examined, and four complete houses were studied. With Tiafu as 
interpreter, many details were obtained from a tufunga living at Apia. 
Other information and assistance in checking up notes were generously 
given by one who is a prime authority on all questions relating to the 
culture of the people of his islands, Mr. O. F. Nelson, of Apia, who has 
recently completed the construction of a handsome native dwelling on his 
estate near Apia. Grateful acknowledgment is also made to Mr. A. J. 
Tattersall, of Apia, for permission to use two photographs of Samoan 
houses. 

In the spelling of Samoan words throughout this paper, ng is used 
for the ng sound, which is distinctly heard today. In the accepted ortho- 
graphy adopted for convenience by the missionaries who originally 
redacted the language, ng is represented by g, but the full spelling fur- 
nishes a better basis for comparison of the Samoan terminology with that 
of other Polynesian peoples. For convenience of reference the terms used 
by builders have been arranged in an alphabetical list (pp. 17-18). 

SAMOAN HOUSE FORMS AND HOUSE BUILDING 

BY E. S. CRAIGHILL HANDY 
THE LONG HOUSE 

On Upolu, Samoa, two forms of houses are nowadays constructed 
by the natives: the long house (afo lau) (PI. I, A) and the round house 
(fale tele) (PI. I, B). Both have the following general characteristics in 
common : a high, steeply pitched roof thatched with sugar-cane leaves, 
sloping to within four or five feet of the ground on all sides, and sup- 
ported all the way around by small posts; the spaces between these posts 
open save for coconut leaf screens, which may be let down in time of wind 
and rain ; rounded ends ; and a straight section of roof on each side. The 
distinguishing features of the two forms are : the long house has long side 
roofs supported by two lines of heavy posts inside the house; the round 
house has such short straight sections as to give it the appearance of being 
perfectly round, the roof as a whole being supported mainly by two or 
three long, heavy center posts rising from the middle of the floor to the 
short ridge pole. 



Handy — Samoan Housebuilding, Cooking and Tattooing 5 

The carpenter's outfit used today in the construction of houses, as well 
as canoes, consists of heavy adzes {.to'i), made most commonly by lashing 
a hatchet head at right angles to the end of a crooked stick; light adzes, 
made with a piece of flat steel cut to the desired shape and sharpened on 
the lower side; an adz with a curved blade (sila), made of a large gouge 
hafted, or of a piece of steel bent to the desired shape and sharpened; 
chisels; and gouges. Saws are not used. The trees in the forests are 
felled with axes, but are trimmed down with adzes. 

The order of procedure in constructing a long house is as follows: 

1. The materials for the house are collected in the forest : all the young 
male friends of the housebuilder are called together to go with the car- 
penter (tufunga fa'i fale), who selects the trees to be felled. The party 
seeking timber (called collectively the fata mango) must be feasted by 
the housebuilder during the gathering of materials. It is only the hard 
wood that is sought at this time — the ifi lele (Afzelia bijuga) and the pou 
muli. The softer woods, breadfruit and coconut, are obtained from the 
plantations near the villages, though only trees that have served their 
time as fruit bearers are taken. Posts and timbers are trimmed and 
roughed out near the place of felling. The roughhewn timber is then 
carried by the men on their shoulders to the site chosen for the house, or, 
if the pieces are very heavy they are dragged to their destination by the 
workers. It is evident that the carpenter in charge must work out in 
advance with some degree of exactness the dimensions of the house and 
its parts. There are no standard proportions, the relative sizes of parts 
being determined by the owner and the chief carpenter. 

2. A scaffolding (fata manu) is erected at the house site: two in- 
verted V's, made each of two rough timbers lashed together at the top, 
are placed one at each end of the proposed house and are held in position 
by a series of poles bound along the sides of the V's (PI. IV, A). Supple- 
mentary V's are added according to the size of the structure. This frame- 
work is of such height and width as to allow the roof to be built above 
it, and serves two purposes : bracing the main posts, the frame, and the 
central section of the roof of the house during the first stage of construc- 
tion; and acting as a scaffold on which the workers stand to lash the 
rafters, ribs, and thatch into place. 

3. The heavy main posts (pou tu) (P. Ill, A; fig. 1, a, 1), made of 
breadfruit wood, ifi lele, or pou muli, are now put in place in holes in 
the ground and held in position by being lashed to the scaffolding. 

4. On top of the main posts are lashed two main plates (amo pou) 
of breadfruit wood, which run the length of the straight section of the 



6 Bemice P. Bishop Museum — Bulletin 

roof (Pis. II, D; III, A; and fig. i, a, 2) and are fitted to the main posts 
in the manner shown in figure 3, a; 3, b; or 3, c. 

5. The utu poto, heavy crossbeams or joists of breadfruit wood, are 
next placed on top of the plates at right angles to them and lashed into 
place, so that they lie across the top ends of the pairs of opposite main 




o 00 00 o 0000 00 ( 

00 00 



o_ O O OO 

> go o o o 000 00 ' 




Figure i. — Construction of the Samoan long house : a, a latitudinal cross-section ; 
b, the ground plan; c, a longitudinal cross-section. 



posts. The joists and plates are never of the same material as the main 
posts. (See PI. Ill, A, and fig. 1, a, 3.) 

6. On top of the crossbeams and equidistant from their ends is next 
placed a heavy longitudinal beam called tuitui, running the length of the 
frame. This is made of Hi lele. (See PI. Ill, A, and fig. 1, a, 4.) 



Handy — Samoan Housebuilding, Cooking and Tattooing 7 

7. Upon the tuitui, at the points immediately above its intersection 
with the crossbeams, are now lashed uprights (te'e auau), rising to sup- 
port the ridge pole (auau), which is next lashed into place. This super- 
structure of uprights and ridge pole is held in place by hand and small 
braces until side braces attached to the ridge pole and the main posts have 
been put up. For the ridge pole ifi lele wood is commonly used. (See 
PI. II, B, and fig. 1, a, 5, 6.) 

8. Next are lashed into place the fatunga — flat, oblique rafters or 
braces made of coconut wood — running from the ridge pole across the 
end of each main post. These extend from the ridge pole, across the 
main plates, and as low as the eave of the house will come. These oblique 
rafters, which hold in position the superstructure above mentioned, are 
distinguished from the horizontal rafters by being made of coconut wood 
instead of breadfruit, by being flat instead of round in cross section. (See 
PI. II, B and D.) 

9. On the outer side of the main posts, near the top, are fastened pairs 
of short braces (te'e), running to the fatunga. (See Pis. II, D; III, A; 
and fig. 1, a, 7.) 

10. The lango matua, also called ulu — round horizontal rafters of 
breadfruit wood running the length of the roof — are next lashed beneath the 
fatunga. (See PI. II, D; fig. 1, a, 8.) 

11. Horizontal braces called so'a, running the width of the roof, are 
now lashed into place, so as to join opposite pairs of lango matua at the 
same level, one brace passing on each side of each te'e auau and being 
lashed at its middle point to this upright. (See PI. II, B, and fig. 1, a, 9.) 

12. When all of these horizontal rafters are in place, the taotao, two 
rafters lashed on top of the oblique rafters (fatunga) just over the main 
plates, are put up, one on each side. The small ribs to which the thatching 
is lashed rest on these and the other horizontal rafters. (See PI. II, D, 
and fig. 1, a, 10.) 

13. Small oblique ribs (aso) are next lashed into place. They run 
from the crest of the roof to its lower margin. These long thin laths of 
breadfruit wood, cut entirely by hand, about an inch wide and half an 
inch thick, are placed about two inches apart so as to cover the whole 
frame. (See PI. II, A.) 

14. Small horizontal rods (luanga) of the same form as the aso are 
now lashed along the under side of the aso, parallel to the horizontal raft- 
ers, one, two, or three strips between each pair of large rafters. (See Pis. 
II, B and C.) 



8 B entice P. Bishop Museum — Bulletin 

15. The amo pott lalo — a lower plate, diamond shaped or round in 
cross section — is now lashed to the oblique rafters on each side, about one 
foot from their lower extremities, that is, about one foot above the lower 
edge of the roof. (See PI. Ill, A; fig. 1, a, 11.) 

16. The small outside posts (pou lolo), which run along the sides the 
entire length of the roof, are now put in place. They are made of ifi 
lele, pou muli, or breadfruit wood, and are planted in holes in the ground : 
their tops are then fitted to the lower plate after the manner shown in 
figure 1, a. (See also PL III, A.) The thatch is now put on this cen- 
tral section. 

The main body, or central section, of the house, comprising two 
straight sections of side roof supported by two rows of main pillars and 
two rows of low outside pillars, is now complete. ( See PL I, D. ) 

17. The two curved end segments are next erected. The round 
rafters (fan), which constitute the main elements of the end roofs, are 
made of straight breadfruit logs adzed to the right curvature. To produce 
the desired length, the sections of wood are fitted together after the 
manner shown in figure 3, d, by means of a spliced juncture, called so'o. 
These rafters appear usually to be shaped with adzes at the site of the 
house. First one end of the house is added to the central section, then 
the other. 

18. The first element of the end to be placed in position is the curved 
end plate (fau lalo), which is supported on a semicircle of four low tem- 
porary end posts, which merely rest on the ground. (See PL II, A.) 

19. Next is put into position the fan in — the longest of the curved 
end rafters, that which runs from side to side of the frame and ends at 
the points of juncture of the lower side plates and the end plates. (See 
PL III, A.) This and the succeeding curved rafters, are temporarily held 
in place by small braces. 

20. The next of the curved rafters to be put into position is the fau 
tele aso, the shortest and one nearest the ridge pole. After this, the one 
intermediate between the fan lalo and the fan tu is put up. The remainder 
of the rafters, collectively known as fau, but each with a special name 
descriptive of its position, are put into place alternating in order above and 
below the fau tu. 

21. All the rafters of the end being in place and held in position by 
small temporary braces, the moavtoa is lashed securely to the end of the 
ridge pole with many turns of sennit. The moamoa is a small, flat, rec- 
tangular or roundish block of wood ; many are carved in symbolic repre- 
sentation of the moon and stars. The one observed is round and on its 



Handy — Samoan Housebuilding, Cooking and Tattooing 9 

surface facing the floor is a design in relief consisting of a row of three 
isosceles triangles with their bases touching. 

22. To the moamoa are now lashed five aso, which pass across the 
curved rafters to the top of the middle end post, which is now put up and 
lashed to the fan lalo ; and the five aso are lashed also to the newly 
erected post. After this work is finished, all of the aso are put into place 
just as they were on the side roofs (p. 7, § 13). 

23. The aso being in place, luanga are lashed under them, one, two 
or three strips between each pair of large curved rafters, as in the 
construction of the straight sections of the roof (p. 7, § 14). (See Pis. 
II, B; III, A.) 

24. The rest of the semicircle of low end pillars (pou lalo) are next 
put into place, being planted in holes and lashed to the curved end plate. 

25. To complete the frame of the end, small poles called lango Ian, 
square or rectangular in cross section and about two inches thick, are 
lashed along the lower ends of the aso, making a continuous rod binding 
their extremities all the way around the house. 

26. The thatching of each end section is put on as the frame is 
finished — that is to say, each end is completed, including thatching, as a 
separate unit, first one, then the other. The lashing of the elements of 
the thatch on the frame is done by men, but the elements themselves are 
made by women in the following manner: 

A sufficient supply of leaves of the sugar-cane (Ian) is gathered 
and dried by the women. Dry reed stems (lafo) from the swamps, and 
a sufficient number of dry midribs of coconut leaflets are also collected. 
The basis of the thatch element is a reed stem about three feet long. Be- 
ginning at one end of the reed, sugar-cane leaves, one after the other, are 
doubled over it along its entire length and made fast by means of a 
coconut midrib which is thrust close to the reed stem through the half 
leaves as a pin. The elements of thatch thus made are from two and a 
half to three feet long, with the loose halves of the sugar-cane leaves hang- 
ing as a fringe from the reed on one side. In British Samoa women are 
paid one pound sterling a hundred pieces for making them. These thatch 
elements are lashed on the house frame one above another as closely as 
can be laid in successive strips or sections from the eaves up to the ridge, 
one row being finished before the next is started. One row from eaves to 
ridge is called an ine'i lau. 1 The small sennit cords that hold these thatch 



1 There is a native saying applied to anyone who cannot complete what he 
starts': B le au lau ine'i lau, "His row of thatch does not reach." 



10 



Bernice P. Bishop Museum — Bulletin 



elements are laced and tied over the aso and lumiga. The crest of the 
roof above the ridge pole is covered with loose coconut leaves, on top of 
which are placed several layers of coconut leaf mats. This covering, 




a 





Figure 2. — Construction of the Samoan round house : a, 
section ; b, the ground plan ; c , a longitudinal cross-section. 



a latitudinal cross- 



which runs the length of the ridge, is held in place by small sticks thrust 
through from side to side, binding the crest mats to the upper row of 
sugar-cane thatch elements. The thatching of the ridge is called taua 
lunga. The final stage of the thatching is the trimming of the thatch 
at the eaves (tulutiilu). 



Handy — Samoan Housebuilding, Cooking and Tattooing 1 1 

27. Coconut leaf screens are used to close the sides of the house in 
inclement weather (PI. Ill, A) : Small mats about 18 inches wide and made 
of coconut leaves cut to the required length are woven by gathering all 
the leaflets of a section on one side of the midrib and braiding them 
together in a check pattern with now and then a variant row of twilled 
strokes. The leaflets are turned back at the ends of the mat and woven 
in as new dextrals or sinistrals ; while the edge opposite the midrib is 
finished with a three-ply braid of the pendant leaflets. A number of 
these single mat elements sufficient to fill the space between the lower 
plates and the ground are suspended from the plate, one above the other 
and slightly overlapping. About the top margin of the uppermost mat are 
tied two long cords, one near either end, which are successively tied to 
the tops of the mats below. Another cord is then tied to the middle 
of the lowest mat and passed through a hole in the upper margin of 
each successive mat above, then thrown over the plate, its end hanging 
free. When it is desired to raise the screen, the loose end of the cord is 
pulled, so that the overlapping mats are drawn up one on top of the other 
and held in a compact bundle under the eave. The end of the pulling 
cord is fastened around one of the side posts. 

28. The stone platform and the pebble floor of the house are laid 
after the house itself is completed. Most platforms (pacpae ma'a) con- 
sist of only one layer of roundish stones (ma'a) about two feet deep, 
covering the ground beneath the house and extending very slightly, if at 
all, beyond the eaves. If the house is not on level ground, the platform 
may be much higher on one side than the other. Plate IV, C shows 
a picture of the largest paepae ma'a observed — the former site of a chief's 
house. The borders of some platforms slope, consisting merely of bowl- 
ders grading down to the ground at an angle. Or the border may be 
finished with a vertical curbing of squared coral blocks (si'osi ma'a). 
Today many curbings are made of concrete. 

29. A floor {fola) of black pebbles (MM) or of finely broken coral 
covers evenly the stones of the platform. For sitting, sleeping, and 
domestic activities, mats are unrolled and spread. Long, narrow mats 
made of broad strips of pandanus leaf, sufficient in number to cover the 
whole floor, are kept in each house. 

THE ROUND HOUSE 

Instead of having the two lines of main posts on either side as does 
the long house, the round house (PI. I, B, fig. 2) has two or three tall, 
heavy posts (pou tu) in the center supporting the short ridge pole (PI. 



12 



BemiceP. Bishop Museum — Bulletin 



IV, B, fig. 2, a, i). With the exception of this feature of the main post, 
the construction of the round house is the same as that of the long house. 
The straight section of side roof is so short, however, that the house 
consists of two large, high, rounded end roofs joined by a few feet of 
straight side roof, the resultant structure being apparently perfectly round. 



o ro 



a 



b 




C 



lM/ 



u 



rtW 



W\n 



xi K 



e 



Wl 



Figure 3. — Details of house construction: a, a squared beam fitted into a square 
notch in a post ; b, a squared beam fitted on the beveled end of a post ; c, a rounded 
beam fitted into a round notch in a post; d, the splicing of butts where sections 
of curved rafters are joined; e, the attachment of racks called talitali on either 
side of the center posts of the round house. 



Though they vary in relative size, the structural parts of the long 
house and of the round house are the same, with the exception of the 
following features : 

1. In the round house, the straight horizontal rafters of the short 
side of the roof are called la'au faa lava. (Cf. p. 7, § 10.) 

2. In the round house examined at Molinu'u, which has three center 
posts, braces attached to these rafters run the width of the house (PI. IV, B, 
and fig. 2, a, 2) : a brace {so' a) passes on either side of the middle post, 
and another brace passes on the outer side of each of the other two, 



Handy — Sanwan Housebuilding, Cooking and Tattooing 13 

making four braces at each level. In this house are nine levels of these 
braces, one set of four running between each opposite pair of laau faa> lava. 

3. Almost midway up the roof of the round house two braces (te'e 
tala) run at right angles to the so'a described in paragraph above, one 
passing along either side of the center posts and being lashed to them. At 
both ends these are lashed to the fan tn (p. 8, § 20), and short braces {te'e) 
run obliquely upward at either end, as shown in Plate IV, B. 

4. Bound on either side of the center posts of the round house, six 
or seven feet from the floor and running lengthways with the house, are 
the talitali, two pieces of wood which serve as racks, cut in the form 
shown in figure 3, e. Baskets of food are hung here at the time of feasts, 
and mats and bamboo pillows are placed on their tops. In one long house 
examined — one used as a meeting house — are several pairs of these racks 
on the rear main posts. 

5. The two chief posts at either end of a round house and the one 
at the front side have special names. The end posts are called tala or matua 
tala and serve as the back rests of the two highest chiefs present at a 
meeting. The middle post on the front side (tala luma or pou tala luma) 
is also important, as here sits the next ranking chief, or the chief boy ( ?) 
or the chief girl (?) present at the function. The middle side post, tua, at 
the back of the house (houses are parallel with the road) (PI. IV, D) 
is the place of the taupo, or village maiden, who prepares and serves the 
kava at all public functions. The remainder of the side posts, pou lalo, are 
the seats of lesser chiefs and orators. (An orator sits on either side of 
the presiding high chiefs at a formal function.) 

6. In building a round house a scaffolding is erected (p. 5, § 2) ; next, 
the center posts are planted in the ground and braced by being lashed to 
the frame; then the ridge pole is put on top of the center posts. The short 
sections of the side roof are now built just as are the side roofs of the 
long house, except that the frame is held in place by the cross braces 
called so'a and by temporary braces lashed to the fata manu until the 
lower plate is attached and the side posts are put up. (See PI. IV, A.) 
The end sections are constructed exactly as in the long house. 

SENNIT LASHINGS 

The ornamental sennit (a fa) lashings, colored the natural brown, 
yellow, red, purple, and black (much of it nowadays with commercial 
paint or dyes) are very beautiful and are put on in patterns with the 
greatest precision, the sennit strands used in this fine work being made 
with care to produce regularity and smoothness. The beauty of this 



14 Bernice P. Bishop Museum — Bulletin 

work can be little more than suggested by photographic reproduction. (See 
PI. Ill, A and B.) The sennit work is done by the craftsmen who con- 
struct the rest of the dwelling. The process of binding is spoken of as 
fa' a fai (to bind together), or fafau (make fast) ; and the making of the 
ornamental lashings is referred to as faa fan faa mangaia ( mangaia, 
beautiful). Ornamental lashings themselves are spoken of as faa mangaia. 

FEASTS 

The giving of feasts for the tufunga and his helpers, with the accom- 
panying presentation of gifts, constitutes the conventional mode of pay- 
ment of the builders by the owner. Every important stage in the erection 
of the house is marked by a feast. One is held in the forest when the 
materials are gathered ; one, at the site of the house when the materials 
are all assembled. Feasts mark the erection of the main posts, the plac- 
ing of the ridge pole, of the middle end posts, and so on. 

When the house has been completed, the most important of all 
the feasts is celebrated, that called the it mu sanga, or consecration feast 
(uniu, oven; sa, sacred). An abundance of food is distributed, there is a 
formal kava drinking with speeches appropriate to the occasion, and 
presentation of gifts. The most interesting feature of the rite is the 
prayer of consecration addressed to the whole company of house building 
tufunga, living and dead, supplicating their blessing on the product of 
handicraft just accomplished, and to the ancestral spirits of the family, 
requesting that the unity and prestige of the family be supported. This 
rite, which today is always practised upon the completion of an important 
new house, is a purely Samoan ceremony ; the local pastor does not assist 
and no Christian prayer is said. After this consecration feast, all the 
building tufunga depart. 

A function called faa ulit falenga (entering the house), which may 
be referred to as the "housewarming," although quite distinct from the "con- 
secration," is sometimes combined with it ; but usually for important 
buildings, the housewarming is celebrated a year or two after the com- 
pletion and consecration of the building. The ceremony consists of 
feasting and merrymaking without the formal elements of the consecration 
rite. There is no kava drinking, no speech making, no praying. 

USES 

The family sleeping or dwelling house (fate tofd) is commonly a small, 
or medium-sized, afo lau; the public rest house (falc tali malo) in the 
village is a large house also of the long type ; and sometimes the afo lau 



Handy — Samoan Housebuilding, Cooking and Tattooing 15 

serves as the chief's council house. When thus used the two end posts 
and the middle side post in front are called by the same terms as in the 
fale tele or true council house. 

The chief's council house is properly of the round type with center 
posts. The term fale tele is applied both to its form and to its use. This 
form of house is also often built for the village maiden to stay in with 
the rest of the unmarried maids of the town. 

FURNITURE 

The furniture of a Samoan house is of the simplest kind. Coarse 
pandanus mats (fola) about a yard wide and of varying lengths are un- 
rolled to cover the floor while the house is occupied, but are kept rolled 
up when not in use. There are large sleeping mats (nwcnga) woven of 
fine strips of pandanus. The bamboo pillows (ali) (PI. Ill, B) and large 
sheets of bark cloth (siapo), suspended at times to cut off a section of the 
house, complete the furnishings. 

carpenters' guild 

The accepted professional housebuilder is called tufunga fa'i fale. 
When a large structure is erected, a number of carpenters work under 
the direction of an old master who is referred to as matai tufunga 
(matai, director). 

The profession is hereditary, but the training must come through serv- 
ing an apprenticeship under a tufunga. When a young man has shown 
himself to be an acceptably skilled worker, he becomes a tufunga through 
election to one of the societies of carpenters. Thereafter, in the practice 
of his profession, the carpenter is known by the name of his society. 
Whether he be chief or common man at home, it is under his professional 
name, and only with its prerogatives, that he is served kava and takes 
part in public functions. 

Every tufunga fa'i fale is a member of the carpenters' guild called 
collectively ainga, or more properly ainga sa le Malama. Anciently, 
Malama, the progenitor of one of the Samoan chiefly lines, is said to have 
founded this guild. There are four societies of major rank in the guild 
and others of less importance. The Solofuti and Longo are two of those 
of highest rank. The names of others were not ascertained. The rank of 
each society depends upon its genealogical relationship to the original 
society founded by Malama : thus, the first societies constituting the guild 
when founded are of first order, while other independent branches subse- 
quently formed are of lower rank. The professional rank of an individual 



16 Bernice P. Bishop Museum — Bulletin 

member depends upon two things : the rank of his society ; and the number 
of generations in direct line that his professional ancestry runs. A tufunga 
whose forefathers have been carpenters since the first founding of the 
guild, one whose professional descent is direct, holds the highest rank 
among carpenters. 

Each society has a head, matai tufunga, chosen for this position be- 
cause of rank and ability, who presides at meetings and superintends the 
erection of important structures. Among the most important of the 
meetings are those at which a new tufunga is admitted. At this meeting, 
which is attended by the leading carpenters of the society from each 
district, the newly accepted carpenter presents fine mats, cloth, or other 
valuable gifts to the older tufunga whose apprentice he has been. If a 
tufunga of higher rank is present at the meeting, the sponsor for the 
apprentice will probably defer in his favor. But the tufunga who happens 
to be of higher rank will usually, with the customary graceful oratory, 
accept the courtesy but refuse the gifts, insisting that they be presented 
to him in whose honor the feast is really given, the carpenter under whom 
the new member has received his training. There is much speech making 
and kava drinking and afterwards a feast. Such an occasion usually 
marks the successful completion of some large building by the young 
carpenter, who has thus demonstrated to his preceptor and to the world 
proficiency in his profession. There is no testing or examination; the 
house that he has completed stands as evidence of his qualifications. The 
new member thereafter assumes, in his professional capacity, the name of 
his society. This is his only title; there are no individual titles. 

A head carpenter may employ a tufunga of another society. For 
example: suppose a tufunga has a relative who is erecting a house and 
he desires to help him, but a head carpenter of another society has been 
put in charge of the work. The tufunga will work with the carpenters 
of the other society; but he will be associated with them without rank, 
having none of the prerogatives that belong to his title in his own 
society. 

Formerly the societies were localized, each being attached to one of 
the superior chiefs, but nowadays, with the population shifting about 
more than in ancient times, the members are becoming more and more 
scattered. 

An interesting recent event shows that at times the guild acts as a 
unit and illustrates graphically the control of economic factors in native 
affairs. Among the provisions which must be supplied at the feasts 
nowadays are kegs of salt beef. Money has to be paid for these and 



Handy — Sainoan Housebuilding, Cooking and Tattooing 17 

also for many parts of the house, such as the thatching; but the cost of 
trade articles has increased and the income of natives from copra and 
other produce has decreased to such an extent since the War that even 
those of wealth find the number of feasts required by custom to be 
burdensome, if not prohibitive. There grew a general feeling of protest, 
which was doubtless frequently voiced upon those occasions when house- 
builders were arranging for the erection of a new dwelling. No carpen- 
ter or society dared to diverge from the established order of things, and 
the result was that fewer houses were built, and little employment for 
carpenters resulted. To discuss this situation the guild met as a whole, 
representatives coming from all the societies in all the islands. At this 
grand conclave it was decided that certain of the established feasts should 
be omitted for the time being, and as a result families found themselves 
better able to bear the expense of building, and trade soon revived. 

The carpenter's profession has from time immemorial been highly 
honored; the carpenter has always been referred to as the angai tupu, 
"the supporter of chiefs." According to Mr. O. F. Nelson, a high chief 
who kindly gave me most of this information regarding the guild, the 
carpenter was the most trusted and the most honored of the attendants 
of the chief. 

The different societies have each their particular ornamental sennit 
designs used in lashing. On entering a house one familiar with these 
designs instantly recognizes which society has been in charge of the con- 
struction. If a prominent tufunga of another society is assisting a matai 
in building, thus sacrificing his prerogatives and rank, the matai will 
often pay him the graceful compliment of requesting him to apply one 
of the lashings of his society in one of the prominent positions. This 
honor accepted, the lashing stands as a lasting memento of the participa- 
tion of the member of the other society. 

TEEMS USED IN HOUSE CONSTRUCTION 

afa, sennit. 

afo lau, long house. 

ainga or ainga sa le Malama, carpenters' guild. 

ali, bamboo pillow. 

amo pou, main plate. 

amo pou lalo, lower plate. 

aso, oblique ribs or laths. 

au, adz handle made of orange wood. 

auau, ridge pole. 

faa fa'i or faa fau, to bind with sennit. 

faa fau faa mangaia, to make ornamental lashings. 

faa mangaia, ornamental lashings. 



18 Bernice P. Bishop Museum — Bulletin 

faa ulu falenga, house warming. 

fale tali malo, public rest house. 

fale tele, round house or council house. 

fale tofa, sleeping house. 

fatunga, flat, oblique rafters. 

fau, round, curved end rafters. 

fau lalo, curved end plate. 

fau sanga, adz lashing. 

fau tele aso, the shortest curved end rafter. 

fau tonu, adz head. 

fau tu, the longest curved end rafter. 

fola, floor or floor mat. 

iliili, pebbles on the floor. 

ine'i lau, one row of thatch. 

lafo, reed stem used in making thatch mats. 

la'au faa lava, straight, round, horizontal rafters in the round house. 

lango lau, binding rods. 

lau, sugar cane leaves or thatch mat. 

lango matua or ulu, straight, round, horizontal rafters in the long house. 

luanga, horizontal rods. 

ma'a, stones used in making platforms. 

matai tufunga, head of a society, director. 

moamoa, block at either end of the ridge pole. 

moenga, sleeping mat. 

paepae ma'a, stone platform. 

pou lalo, small outside posts. 

pou tu, main posts. 

siapo, bark cloth hanging or partition. 

sila, adz blade. 

si'osi ma'a, curbing of squared coral blocks. 

so'a, horizontal braces. 

so'o, beveled juncture of sections of rafters. 

tala or matua tala, end posts in the round house. 

tala luma or pou tala luma, middle front post of the round house. 

talitali, racks. 

taotao, round horizontal rafter above the main plate. 

taua lunga, coconut leaf thatch on the crest of the roof. 

te'e, side braces or oblique braces. 

te'e auau, uprights supporting the ridge pole in the long house. 

te'e tala, horizontal longitudinal braces. 

to'i, adz. 

tua, middle back post of the round house. 

tufunga fa'i fale, carpenter. 

tuitui, longitudinal beam. 

tulutulu, eaves. 

umu sanga, consecration feast. 

utu poto, crossbeams or joists. 



Handy — Samoan Housebuilding, Cooking and Tattooing 



19 



THE SAMOAN COOKING DAY 

BY WIIXOWDEAN CHATTERSON HANDY 

Spending Friday afternoon and Saturday morning of any week in the 
cook houses of such a village as Fasitoo Uta will acquaint one with the 
menus of the current season of the year and with the general methods 
of Samoan cooking. On Friday preparations are made for the great 
cooking time of the week. The men go to the bush for talo (Colocasia 
antiquorum), yams, breadfruit, bananas, and in season ifi (Inocarpits edu- 
lis). The women go for firewood, breadfruit, and for banana leaves for 
wrappings. By dusk cook houses are stacked with baskets of edibles and 
neat bundles of leaves and wood; and early Saturday morning smoke is 
pouring forth. All the young hands in the village are busy with the prov- 
ender. Those delegated to fish start towards the reef in canoes with 




Figure 4. Samoan cooking utensils: a, a wooden bowl (tanoa) ; b, a coconut 
grater (tuai). 



spears and window boxes for looking under the water, or take their nets 
to throw in the shallows off shore, and are soon seen returning with their 
catch in baskets. Others bring in pigs swung head downwards in coco- 
nut leaf mats tied to carrying poles. 

The food is baked in an umu built above ground, not in a hole, though 
the frequent rebuilding in the same spot and the subsequent raking away 
of the stones gradually wears a slight depression. Firewood is laid 
criss-cross upon the ground, the oven stones on top. When the wood 
is consumed and the stones are hot, they are raked apart to make room 
for the fruits to be placed among them. There seems to be an established 
order for filling the oven : breadfruit and talo in the center, peeled bananas 
around them, all three mingled with the stones (PI. V, B), the pig on 
top with packages of fish and palu sami, or talo leaves, around it (PI. V, 
C). When the food is thus hurriedly packed among the stones, the whole 
is covered with leaves of breadfruit and banana and any talo leaves 
which may have been left over, and finally with copra sacks (PI. V, D). 
Samoans like their food green and slightly raw. The breadfruit chosen 
is just at the point of maturity, before it has begun to sweeten; the 



20 Bermce P. Bishop Museum — Bulletin 

bananas are green ; and the oven is opened just an hour after packing, 
so that the meat is half-cooked. 

Talo is both baked and boiled, and the leaves are prepared with coco- 
nut milk in the mixture called palu sami or lu au. No oven seems com- 
plete without several dozen packages of palu sami — "cabbage" it is now 
often called. While one boy makes the leaves ready, another extracts the 
coconut milk in the usual Polynesian fashion, grating the flesh on a tuai 
(fig. 4, b), and squeezing the milk through a bunch of shredded fiber, 
which catches the particles of meat and strains out the liquid. The stem 
of a certain wild banana is pounded out to form this fibrous sieve. The 
milk is squeezed into a tanoa or wooden bowl (fig. 4, a) containing a few 
small, hot stones to bring out the oil. Meanwhile the leaves are being 
prepared according to rule. From the neat pile of talo leaves one leaf is 
selected and placed face downwards on the palm of the left hand. While 
the right-hand fingers pinch off the tip of the leaf, the left breaks the mid- 
rib about an inch above the stem. Thereupon the right hand pinches out 
the butt end of the midrib from this break to the end of the stem and 
throws it away. The two lower lobes of the leaf are now torn off and 
the three sections resulting are placed on the pile ready for filling with 
the coconut milk. The whole process is so rapid as to be difficult to 
follow with the eye. 

The coconut milk being prepared in the tanoa and mixed with sea 
water, and the leaf sections being ready, the two workers together now 
complete the making of the packages : one selects half a dozen of the talo 
leaf sections and cups them in the palm of his left hand, dips a small 
coconut shell into the mixture of coconut milk and salt water, and pours 
a small quantity into the leaf cup. Gathering together the tips of the leaves 
and reinforcing them with a section of banana leaf, he hands the closed 
cup to the other worker, who has ready a pile of breadfruit leaves for the 
outside wrappers. Placing the bag at the base of the leaf, he gathers 
together the lower tips, folds in the side lobes, folds over the end of the 
leaf, and bends the stem up and tucks it under the midrib to fasten the 
package (PI. V, A). The palu sami is now ready for the oven and when 
cooked is a soft pulp of leaves and coconut milk resembling well-cooked 
spinach. 

Fish are cooked in leaf packages called aft, made in the following 
manner: a large breadfruit leaf is laid on the mat and three or four 
fish — depending upon their size — are placed near the stem. The sides of the 
leaf are turned in, the end folded over and bound to the stem in bag form 
with a strip of fau bark (Paritium tiliacenm). 



Handy — Samoan Housebuilding, Cooking and Tattooing 21 

Pig is cooked whole. When the hair has been scraped off and the 
entrails removed, it is stuffed with three hot stones and a bunch of leaves, 
preferably mango (la vai), which is supposed to sweeten the meat. The 
pig is then laid on its stomach on the hot stones of the oven. 

Surplus crops of breadfruit, yams, bananas, and talo are stored in 
holes in the ground for possible need. The preserved foods are renewed 
yearly and are not eaten unless needed. Should an unproductive year 
arise, they are dug up and baked in leaf packages until hard and blackish, 
and are eaten without further treatment. 



SAMOAN TATTOOING 

BY WILLOWDEAN CHATTERSON HANDY 

Tattooing (tatau) is practised today in Samoa in the old native fashion, 
and far more generally ; for, with the relaxation of ancient rigid laws of 
class distinction, designs which were once the exclusive possession of the 
chiefly class may be worn now by any man capable of paying for them. 
Formerly, commoners were pricked from waist to knees so as to make 
this portion of their bodies wholly black. An elaborate covering of bands 
and stripes (PI. VI, A and B), the pattern of a modern middle-class 
Samoan, was restricted to persons of high rank. Even today, variations 
in certain motives proclaim rank to the initiated, such as the number of 
triangles down the back of a man's legs (PL VI, B, 0), and the variant 
aso tali tu (PI. VII, B, c, 2), which distinguishes a chief, whereas the same 
design in the form given in Plate VI, B, j-m, or Plate VII, B, c, 1, 
belongs to a bard, or "talking man," as it is translated today. 

Beyond these small symbols, tattooing motives seem never to have 
possessed significance. The initial letter of a man's name, which nowa- 
days is pricked upon his arm, is said to be there to distinguish him 
should he be killed in war. What the personal mark was — if there was 
one — before the introduction of the alphabet could not be ascertained. 
To the amount of tattooing an individual possesses is attached significance 
in the judgment of the fashionable Samoan world. Half a suit is of no 
importance, but if a man can show an aso tali tu, which begins the 
second half of the work, he is considered "all right." The small splotch 
put upon the navel (PI. VI, A) is most important of all in this connec- 
tion, as it is the last motive put on and stamps a man as altogether fash- 
ionable. The social importance of bearing with fortitude the whole 



22 Bemice P. Bishop Museum — Bulletin 

operation is illustrated by the experience of a young man which came 
under the notice of two United States naval officers who testify as follows 5 : 

There was recently admitted to the Samoan hospital a young man who, when 
he was' half tattooed, had refused to let the operator continue on account of the 
severe pain. It was an unfortunate thing for him, for he has been persecuted, jeered 
at, and his life made miserable ever since by the young men of his age. He came 
to the hospital with a feigned disease to escape his persecutors. 

The art of tattooing is practised by adepts called tufunga. The 
office is sometimes hereditary, but not always. It is customary for 
young men to assist the tufunga. These are generally relatives, but not 
necessarily so. If an assistant shows promise and aptitude, the artist 
may encourage him to make a study of the designs and the practice with 
a view to becoming a professional. Eventually he is given the oppor- 
tunity of putting on a suit of tattooing for some client of his master 
to whom it is agreeable. If he proves his ability, he becomes a candi- 
date for admission into the guild of tufunga tatau to which his master 
belongs. Artists who are members of this particular organization — of 
which there are several in the islands — come from far and near to attend 
the initiation of the neophite, who entertains them. If, in the opinion 
of these professionals, he is qualified to become a practitioner, he 
thereafter practises. It is said ' that the fraternity of tattooers was in the 
old days presided over by two female deities — Tilafainga and Taema. 
Whether this refers to one of the societies or to tattooers as a whole I do 
not know. 

Fathers are considered "mean" if they do not make it possible for 
their children to follow the fashion of tattooing, and everyone who can 
afford the rather expensive operation calls in a tufunga to decorate his 
boy or girl sometime before the eighteenth year. The father builds a 
special shed in which the work is done and which is burned upon its 
completion. He houses and feeds the artist and his family during the 
entire operation — about six months on an average — and pays him 
in fine mats, waist cloths (lavalava) , and other articles of local value. The 
father allows his child to invite friends to come and share the skill of the 
practitioner. The boy or girl, for whom the artist is hired, sets the pace 
for the work, indicating when, because of pain, the work must stop, and 
stating the length of the rest periods. Usually there are work periods 
about three times a week. Some, it has been reported 4 , have such endur- 



2 Hunt, D., and Humphreys, L., Samoan tattooing : U. S. N. Med. Bull., pp. 
346-348, March, 1923. 
"Op. cit. 
'Op cit. 



Handy — Samoan Housebuilding, Cooking and Tattooing 



23 



ance as to allow the entire operation to be completed in three or four days. 
The boys and girls invited to be decorated at the same time, however, may 
not have their patterns completed until that of the chief patron is finished. 
The artist works with a set of six mallets (fig. 5, b-f, two of d). The 
handles are of bamboo or light wood (le an), to which are lashed heads 






ill! 

& c d 

Figure 5. The instruments used in Samoan tattooing. 



of tortoise-shell with attached flat combs of pig's teeth or of human bone 
(a'u). Hunt and Humphreys 6 report that these bones are made flat by 
grinding and rubbing with sea shells. Upon the fineness and number of 
the teeth depends the use to which the instrument is put and from which 
it derives its name. The largest instrument is called kapulu (fig. 5, b). To 
the handle, 10 inches long, is lashed a head 2]/ 2 inches high by 1% inches 
wide. Attached to this head are four combs of ten teeth each. The 
kapulu makes the large black patch on the outer thigh, which is also called 
kapulu (PI. VI, B, 0; PI. VI, A, /). There are also three songi aso: one, 
shown in figure 5, c, has two combs each containing fine teeth, and is used 
for making long lines; two instruments like that shown in figure 5, 
d, each with one comb of twenty fine teeth, are used for making short lines. 
The instruments shown in figure 5, e and 5, f, are called au mongo and 
are used for making dotted edges — e for small ones, f for large ones. The 



5 Op cit. 



24 Bernice P. Bishop Museum — Bulletin 

head of each is about 1% inches high, but e is five-eighths of an inch 
wide and bears a comb of seven coarse teeth, while f is three-eighths of an 
inch wide and has but three very coarse teeth. 

The pigment used in tattooing is the soot of the lama nut (Aleurites 
triloba) mixed with water. The artist dips the teeth of his instrument into 
this fluid and, holding the mallet in his left hand, taps upon it with a 
slender stick about a foot long, driving the teeth into the skin of the client, 
which is held taut by an assistant. (See PI. VII, A.) There seem never to 
have been fixed chants belonging exclusively to this operation, but during 
the entire process friends sit around singing to distract the mind of the 
sufferer. 

An exhaustive study of Samoan tattooing should include a great many 
examples of the patterns, for, though they seem identical, the motives 
present many variations to the practised eye. It is said that those versed 
in the art, upon seeing a pattern, can name the artist who executed it. Such 
a study is impossible in the present paper, but drawings here presented of 
the tattooing on one native may be suggestive. Plate VI, A and B shows 
the typical leg covering for men. It appears that except for the hands 
this was the only portion of the body ever covered. The Samoan whose 
patterns are reproduced here described his motives in the terms given in 
the legend for Plate VI. It will be noticed that most of the motives are 
named for animate or inanimate objects, to which some resemblance may 
be traced in the general shape of the design, but the drawings can hardly 
be called naturalistic. The ivi inuku, short bone, apparently takes its 
name from the part of the body it covers, the sacrum ; the fusi, belt, from 
its function as a body covering, a belt about the knee. 

The patterns worn by women are scant and dainty, their thighs being 
pricked with delicate marks which give the impression of polka dots 
or cut work embroidery. There are dots arranged in diamonds, wavy lines 
variously placed, and dashes radiating like spokes of a wheel (PI. VII, 
B, a). Their hands are covered with a loose and scattered arrangement 
of dots, stars, wavy lines, inverted V's and W's (PI. VII, B, b). Men's 
hands are decorated with the same delicate prickings. 



Handy — Samoan Housebuilding, Cooking and Tattooing 25 

EXPLANATION OF PLATES 

Plate I. — Samoan house forms and construction of long house. 

A. A long house at Molinu'u, Upolu. 

B. A round house at Molinu'u. 

C. The complete main frame of a long house. 

D. Middle section of long house thatched, side posts and end sections to be 
added. 

Plate II. — Details of construction of long house. 

A. Frame of completed end section of a house, ribs exposed, ready to receive 
the thatch. (Photograph by A. J. Tattersall.) 

B. Interior view showing beams, upright support and braces of ridge pole ; 
juncture of side and end section of the roof, rafters' and ribs. 

C. Interior of the dwelling of Le Au Pepe, at Fasito'o Uta, Upolu, looking 
upward along the side roof to the ridge pole ; showing ornamental lashings 
and braces. 

D. Same as C, showing main posts, main plate, joists, central beam, braces, 
side and end rafters, and ribs. 

Plate III. — Interior views of long house. 

A. Interior of a common sleeping house. (Photographed by A. J. Tattersall.) 

B. Ornamental lashings on joists in dwelling of Le Au Pepe. 

Plate IV. — Samoan round house and general views. 

A. Nearly complete middle section of a small round house with two center 
posts, showing the rough frame that supports the roof until the small side 
posts are put in place. 

B. Interior view of the large round house at Molinu'u, showing the center 
posts', braces, section of the straight side and curved end walls and their 
juncture, and the rafters and ribs. 

C. A very large stone platform which formerly served as the foundation of a 
great round house of a chief. 

D. The village of Fasito'o Uta, showing the manner in which Samoan houses 
are placed parallel to the roadways. 

Plate V. — Samoan cooking. 

A. Making palu sami. 

B. The bottom layer of an oven: breadfruit, talo and bananas mingled with the 
hot stones. 

C. The second layer of an oven : pig, and packages of palu sami. 

D. The oven covered with leaves and sacks. 



26 Bcrnice P. Bishop Museum — Bulletin 

Plate VI. — Samoan tattooing designs. 

A. Designs on the front of the body: a, faa ulu tau, fishing spear; b, aso faa 
ifo, lines' tied together; b, center, puke (on the navel); c, kafangi; d, aso, 
lines; e, aso; d-f, center-pungialo, a white sea bird; f and g, sai muku, 
short line; /;, atua loa, centipede; i center, selu, comb; ;' center, faa lava; 
j, kapulu. (From drawings by the author.) 

B. Designs on the back of the body: a, faa ulu tau, fishing spear (the points 
of these spears are to be seen in Plate VI A, a ; b, vaa, canoe ; c, faa ila, 
glass to look through (as 1 into the sea for fish); d center, pea, flying fox; 
e, aso, lines ; /, kafangi ; g, aso ; h, aso ; i and j, sai muku, short line ; k, 
atua loa, literally long god, the centipede; /, faa ila; j-m, aso tali tu ; n, 
faa ila ; j-m, center, ivi muku, short bone ; o, kapulu ; p, faa muli ali au, a 
sea-shell; q, fusi, belt. (From drawings by the author.) 

Plate. VII. — Samoan tattooing. 

A. Photograph of a tufunga (professional) practising the art of tatau. 

B. Motives used in tatau: a, on the legs of women; b, on the hands of women; 
c, i, a section of the pattern called aso tali tu of a "talking man ;" c, 2, the aso 
tali tu which distinguishes a chief of Fasitoo Uta. (a, b, drawn from obser- 
vations, corroborated by Kramer's Die Samoan Inseln, Band II, pp. 71-87, 
T 903 ! c, drawn from life by the author.) 



Bernice P. Bishop Museum Bulletin No. 15 



Plate 1 




fit 

O 



O 



O 



Bernice P. Bishop Museum Bulletin No. 15 



Plats II 





■'** '"ira.UBiunun,, 




Z 

J 

z~ 



Bernice P. Bishop Museum Bulletin No. IS 



Plate III 




INTERIOR VIEWS OF LONG HOUSE 



Bernice P. Bishop Museum Bulletin No. 15 



Plate IV 





Hernmce P. Bishop Museum Bulletin No. 15 



Plate V 




Kernice P. Bishop Museum Bulletin No. IS 



Plate VI 





A 



B 



SAMOAN TATTOOING DESIGNS 



Bernice P. Bishop Museum Bulletin No. 15 



Plate VII 










\ 



V 



ai 



AAA AAAA 



www w w w 






V 

"V 

V 



• 











— ■ — * * f — — < * * ' — 


— * * * — * , , 


a«i5*&^5^&^&^^»^ 












^j*" p ■-■»^ t > ^^» • » 








iiiJMykejjfctt 


1 




c 

5 


2. 




SAMOAN 


TATTOOING 



*S9 



Wrihdrawn from UF. Surveyed 10 ime.;- 



Samoan house building, cooking afa 
507 4B528bno15 



3 12b2 03117 333fi 



Withdrawn from UF. Surveyeo 



io imoinei Archive 




