9^mttfim!SifiiH3fiaiH}ffiai$BBftBitBiU«fi»<]«9lf)li8JWSH}S 




a 





i^jWMjjwffjHJH BBH W Btilti W inilllimilHBl i llJiP P i 




mmammimmimmmimimiimmHHmimiiiimitnH' ? 



UNIVERSITY OF 

ILLINOIS LIBRARY 

AT URBANA CHAMPAIGN 

OAK STREET 
LIBRARY AGILITY 



CORNER BOOK SHOP 

102 FOURTH AVENUE 
NEW YORK 3, N. y. 



Anchovies on Toast— Drain oil from can 
of anchovies. Chop them finely with little 
parsley, then pound to a paste, adding in a 
little of the oil. Spread on shaped bread 
which has been toasted. Criss-cross with 
Pimento strips, season with lemon juice. 

Livers on Toast — If you can't get Pate 
de Foie Gras, chicken livers will do just as 
well. Fry the liver until just firm enough to 
hold shape. Chop very fine with shalots or 
parsley and a little onion. Salt and pepper. 
Spread on bread. Around the edge make a 
garnish of mashed hard-cooked egg-yolk 

(Continued on page 15^ 

FOODS AND FANCIES 

^continued from -page P) 

forced through a pastry tube. Or put a slice 
of hard-cooked egg in the center of the 
spread. 

Mayonnaise Tomato on Toast — Use 
small tomatoes. Skin. Cover your toast 
first with mayonnaise, then the single round 
slice of tomato, then in center of tomato a 
tightly curled anchovy. 

Mustard Egg' and Pickled Onions — 
Chop the eggs iafter hard-cooked. Mash in 
teaspoon n^ustard.. Spread on toasted, but- 
tered ttian^es 6T bread. In center place a 
pickled oniOfi. Qr. the^ pickled onions may be 
chopped in along" tvrth the egg and then a 
garnish of green' pepper; and pimento used. 

Cream Cheese and Anchovy Fillets — 
Spread the cream cheese on rounds of toasted 
bread and then circle border with the tiniest 
of anchovy fillets. In the center press in half 
a stuffed olive. 

NOVEMBER 18th, 1933 



NEIGHBORHOOD 



COOK BOOK 



BY 



THE MEMBERS OF CIRCLE NUMBER FIVE 

OF 

THE HOME SERVICE DEPARTMENT 

WOMEN'S UNION 

HEMENWAY METHODIST CHURCH 




PUBLISHED 1924 



'^3' ' Tte 



SEVEN DAY CHURCH 



N.l M E over tlie things you tliink 
a cliurcli sliould do and you xvill 
find that the church issuing this cook 
book is eitlier already doing them or 
is planning to do them in the near 
future. 

^T" JI E program being developed in 
\^>^ this church is the kind that led 
a recent writer in C oilier ^s to prepare 
an article entitled: Soon We May 
Have to Go to Church. 

RELIGION in this cliurcli is 
not limited to "strong Sunday 
doses. ^' The ideal is to help religion 
function every day in the week. 

HEMENWA\ 
METHODIST EPISCOPAL 

CHURCH 
NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSE 

CHICAGO AVEXITE NEAR MAIN STREET 

EVANSTON, ILJJNOIS 

1924 



FOREWORD 

This cook book is the result of the earnest efforts 
of Circle No. 5 in the Home Service Department of 
Hemenway Methodist Church. The recipes are the 
choice and tested recipes of many of the members 
and friends of this Church. 

We regret to say that some of the recipes which 
came to us had to be omitted, because of the fact 
that many were duplicated. However, we have 
tried to use a few from every contributor. 

Our advertisers have made possible the printing 
of this book, and they deserve your patronage. 



CIRCLE NUMBER FIVE. 



Chairman of Advertising 
Mrs. J. D. Wigginton 

Chairman of Circle- 



Chairman of Recipes 
Mrs. C. A. Bottorff 
Mrs. J. W. Kassel 



Mrs. C. A. Bottorff 
Mrs. Edward Bradley 
Mrs. U. G. .Buck 
Miss L. Grain 
Mrs. T. Galitz 
Mrs. Mary Gleason 
Mrs. J. Hathaway 
Mrs. W. E. Hosier 
Mrs. C. E. Johnson 
Mrs. Edwin Johnson 
Mrs. Elmer Johnson 
Mrs. John Johnson 
Mrs. J. W. Kassel 
Mrs. E. W. Keast 



Mrs. F. J. Kepler 
Mrs. Luella King 
Miss Grace King 
Mrs. Carl Klein 
Mrs. Andrew Leaf 
Mrs. T. Mogren 
Mrs. F. Phinisey 
Mrs. C. T. Preston 
Mrs. W. J. Putnam 
Mrs. E. J. Reeder 
Mrs. L. Scharstein 
Mrs. V. White 
Mrs. James Wigginton 
Mrs. J. D. Wigginton 



Mrs. S. C. Ti'ood 



INDEX. 

Bread, Biscuit, Rolls, Muffins, Popovers, Waffles, 

Coffee Cake 9 

Doughnuts, Fritters, Croquettes 41 

Cookies, Gingerbread, Wafers 47 

Cakes, Fillings, Icings 73 

Puddings, Sauces, Desserts, Ices 123 

Pastry 159 

Soups 173 

Meats, Poultry, Stuffings. . . '. ^ 183 

Fish, Oysters 203 

Vegetables 215 

Luncheon Dishes, Entrees, Souffles, Eggs 225 

Salads, Salad Dressings 241 

Sandwiches 259 

Pickles, Relishes 265 

Jams 281 

Candies 291 

Beverages 301 

For Serving to 100 309 

Satisfactory Food Combinations 314 

Helpful Hints 317 




EVAKfSTON 
TRUST & SAVINGS BANK 

MAIN ST. AND CHICAGO AVE. 



Your Patronage 
will be Greatly Appreciated 



Phone Evanston 8905, 8906 
Night Phone 676 



Evan^on Building 
Material Co. 



Jas, D. Wigginton, Prop. 



BUILDING MATERIAL 

COAL 

SOLVAY COKE 

The Faultless Fuel 

"HARCO" COAL 

The Cream of Southern Illinois 



Yard and Office 

1320 Simpson Street 
Evanston, 111. 



^ LL your troubles and cares, in the hour 
^C\ of your bereavement, like the clouds of 
the storm, will break and waft away under 
our personal supervision. 

Ward & Buchholz 

FUNERAL DIRECTORS 

13 years experience. 

Distinctive Service Rendered 

912 CHICAGO AVE. 
Phone Ev. 600 

Lady Assistant. Chapel. 

MAKING PROGRESS IN SCHOOL 

BORDEN'S 

Farm Products Co. of Illinois 

Evanstone 274 

Calls for a sturdy, well-nourished body. Chil- 
dren need the full advantage of a quart a day 
of BORDEN'S SELECTED MILK. 

It is the most in pure food for the least money 



Bread 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



BREAD 



White Bread, Rolls, Coffee Cake 

(In one baking.) 

In the evening make a sponge of hot potato water, 
2 mashed potatoes, 2 tbsp. sugar, and enough flour to 
make a thick batter. 

When lukewarm, add i/4 cake yeast foam, which has 
been dissolved in a little lukewarm water. Set in a warm 
place over night. 

In the morning put II/2 Q^s. of flour in a bread pan, 
add enough lukewarm water to make a very stiff batter, 
and 1/2 cup of salt. 

Then add the raised sponge to this, and 2 cts. com- 
pressed yeast (National), dissolved in lukewarm water. 
Beat thoroughly and set in a warm place to raise 1 hour. 

Divide the sponge, using half for bread, the other 
half for rolls and coffee cake. To the sponge for bread, 
add 1/2 cup of drippings, or any shortening. Knead as 
much flour into this as it will take up. Put back into 
bread pan to rise again. 

For rolls and coffee cake add the following to the 
sponge. Beat 2 eggs light, add 1 large cup of sugar and 
2 cups of melted drippings, or any shortening. Beat all 
together well and add to the sponge. Mix enough flour 
into this to knead well. Return to bread pan to rise. If 
both sponges are brushed with melted drippings, they 
will not mix during the rising. When all is light, 

11 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

(about 1 to 11/^ hrs.) mold the bread into loaves and 
put in bread tins to rise once more. 

The rolls may be rolled out and cut with a biscuit 
cutter, or molded with the hands, keeping the hands well- 
greased, as this will make the rolls separate easily after 
baking. The coffee cake may be patted out thin in a flat 
pan, or rolled out with a rolling pin. 

The bread will be ready for the oven first and should 
be twice the size when ready. Bake 1 hr. in a moderate 
oven. 

The coffee cake next. Brush with soft butter (not 
melted), and sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon mixed 
together. This will bake in 20 to 30 minutes. The 
rolls last, will take about % hr. A little stronger heat 
is best for rolls and coffee cake, not too hot. This will 
make 3 large loaves of bread, 2 pans of coffee cake and 2 
large pans of rolls. — Mrs. Mary Gleason. 

White Bread 
SPONGE. Save potato water from dinner, li/^ 
cakes yeast foam soaked in y^ cup warm water. Take 1 
qt. flour and add to the warm potato water. When 
luke-warm, add the yeast and stir until stiff. Cover 
and let rise in a warm place over night. In the morning 
put 3 qts. of flour and a handful of salt in bread pan, 
push to the outside, add sponge and work in a'qt. of 
water, rather warm. Mix well but do not have too stiff. 
Cover and let rise. Mix down again and let rise. Then 
make into loaves and let rise 1 hr. Bake 1 hr. but do 
not have oven too hot to start; must not brown in first 
15 min. Increase heat after this. 

— Mrs. C. J. Preston. 
12 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Salt Rising Bread 
Stir 1 heaping tbsp. cornmeal into % cup scalding 
milk at night ; put in a tin cup and set in a warm place. 
In the morning take 1 pint warm water, a pinch of 
soda, and make a batter with flour so it will drop off a 
knife. Stir in the mixture that has stood over night, 
beat it well, set it in a kettle of warm water and keep 
at an even temperature until quite light ; then add IV2 
pints warm water, 1 tsp. salt, and flour to make into 
loaves ; knead until smooth, put into bread pans and set 
in a warm place to rise. 

. Compressed Yeast Bread 

Use 2 sifters of flour, 1 compressed .yeast cake, 1 
tsp. sugar, 1 large tbsp. salt, 1 qt. lukewarm water and 
milk mixed. 

Dissolve yeast and sugar in y^, cup lukewarm water, 
sift flour into bowl, add salt to the milk and water. 
Make a hole in center of flour, pour the ingredients in 
and stir, using just enough flour to make a sponge. Let 
rise until light, mix stiff and let rise again. Mold into 
loaves and let rise and bake in medium oven about 1 
hour. Makes 3 loaves. — Mrs. M. L. Wigginton. 

Baked Brown Bread 
11/^ cups white flour, 2i/^ cups graham flour, y^. cup 
brown sugar, 1 tsp. salt, 2 eggs, i/^ cup molasses, 2 tsp. 
soda in 2 cups sour milk, 1 tbsp. melted butter and 1 
cup seedless raisins. 

Mix together in the order given, bake 1 hour slowly 
in pound cans, the first half hour with covers on. . 

— Mrs. Walter V. Turner. 
13 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Baked Brown Bread 

1 cup brown sugar, 2 cups butter-milk, i^ tsp. baking 
powder, a pinch of salt and enough graham flour to make 
a stiff dough. Add nuts and raisins if desired. Bake 
slowly 2 hours. — Mrs. M. L. Wigginton. 

Brown Bread 

2 cups warm water or milk, i^ cup sugar, 2 tbsp. 
baking molasses, 2 tbsp. lard (heaping), 1 tsp. salt, 1 
or 2 yeast cakes, graham flour. 

Make a soft sponge with 2 or 3 cups of flour, the 
warm water, and other ingredients. When light, add 
enough flour to make a \erj stiff dough. Knead on a 
floured board for 10 minutes and make into loaves. Let 
rise until they have doubled their size. Bake in a 
moderate oven 30 to 40 minutes. — Mrs. C. H. Reed. 

Boston Brown Bread 

2 cups yellow corn meal, 2 cups rye meal or graham 
flour, 3 cups milk (sweet or sour), i/^ cup molasses, % 
cup boiling water, 1 tsp. soda (heaping), l^ tsp. salt. 

Mix dry ingredients; add milk and molasses. Dis- 
solve soda in boiling water and add just before putting 
in well-greased pound tins. Raisins or currants may be 
added. Steam 3 hours. Will make 6 loaves. 

— ^]\Irs. Edwin Price. 

Boston Brown Bread 

3 cups corn meal, 2 cups graham flour, 1 cup N. O. 
Molasses, 1 tsp. salt, i^ ^^P sugar, 1 tsp. soda, 2i/^ cups 
warm water and 1 cup or more of English currants. 
Dissolve soda in warm water, add the other ingredients 
and steam 2i/2 hours. — Mrs. G. C. Carnright. 

14 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Steamed BrcwH Bread 

10 cups graham flour, 10 cups white flour, 5 cups 
molasses, 8 cups sour milk, 5 tbsp. butter, 5.,tsp. soda, 
5 eggs, 3 cups raisins. 

Steam 3 hours. For 100. 

—Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

Steamed Brown Bread 
2 cups sweet milk, % cup N. O. Molasses, 1 egg, 3 
tbsp. sugar, pinch of salt. 2 cups graham flour, 1% cups 
white flour and 1 tsp. soda dissolved in, the molasses. 
Raisins may be added if desired. Mix together in the 
usual way. Steam 2 hours in baking powder tins. 

— Mrs. Ira Shearer. 

Baked Brown Bread 

2 cups graham flour, 1 cup corn meal, 1 cup white 
flour, 1 egg, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 cup sour milk, 1 cup 
raisins, % cup chopped walnuts, 1 cup molasses, 1 tsp. 
soda, and 1 tsp. baking powder. 

Mix the dry ingredients together, add the sweet milk, 
then the beaten egg, fruit, nuts, and molasses, adding 
the sour milk just before putting into tins. Bake in 
baking powder or other small tins for 1 hour. 

—Mrs. C. A. Bottorff. 

Brown Bread for Sandwiches 
1 cup brown sugar, 2 cups sour milk, 2i/2 cups graham 
flour, 1 cup white flour, 1 cup chopped walnuts, 2 tsp. 
soda and 2 tsp. baking powder. 

15 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Dissolve sugar in sour milk and stir in graham flour. 
Sift together white flour and baking powder. Dissolve 
soda in a little cold water and mix all together. Add 
nuts and bake in slow oven for 1 hour. Makes 2 loaves. 

— Mrs. Elmer A. Johnson. 

Spider Corn Bread 

1^2 cups corn meal, 2 cups sour milk, 1 tsp. soda, 1 
tsp. salt, 1 tsp. sugar, 2 eggs, 2 tbsp. butter. 

Mix dry ingi'edients. Beat eggs until very light with 
a Dover beater and gradually beat in the milk. Add to 
dry ingredients slowly, beating constantly. Heat iron 
frying pan very hot and add butter. Turn spider to 
cover sides and bottom well with melted butter. Pour 
in batter and bake 25 minutes in a hot oven. This will 
serve 6 persons. — Mary A. Ward. 

Johnny Cake or Com Bread 
2 heaping cups cornmeal, 1 heaping cup flour, 3 eggs 
beaten separately, 2y2 cups milk, 1 large tbsp. butter, 
melted but not hot, % cup sugar (less if not wanted 
sweet), 1 tsp. salt and 1 tsp. baking powder. 

Mix in the usual order adding the beaten egg whites 
last. Bake steadily but not too fsa^t. 

— Mrs. W. F. Brugman. 



'o' 



Old Fashioned Corn Bread 
2 cups corn meal, 2 cups sour milk, 1 tsp. soda dis- 
solved in milk, 1 egg, a pinch of salt, 1 tbsp. lard, melted 
in pan in which corn bread is to be baked ; 1 tsp. sugar 
may be added. 

Mix well together and bake in moderate oven. 

— Mrs. Robert Seefurth. 
16 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Com Bread 

1 cup milk, 1 egg well beaten, 2 tbsp. brown sugar, 
5 tbsp. melted butter, pinch of salt. Mix together; add 
1^/2 cups corn meal, 5 tbsp. flour, 2 tsp. baking powder 
sifted in the flour. Bake in buttered pan in quick oven. 

—Mrs. U. G. Buck. 



Spider Com Bread 

2 eggs, 1 cup corn meal (yellow), 1 cup flour (scant), 
3 tsp. baking powder, % tsp. salt, li/^ cups sweet milk, 
2 tbsp. shortening (butter and Crisco). 

Use iron skillet, put in 2 tbsp. shortening and melt. 
Beat eggs, add milk, then melted butter and Crisco. 
Sift dry ingredients twice, add to liquid and beat well. 
Pour into hot skillet and bake 25 minutes in hot oven. 

— Mrs. M. V. Smurr. 



Nut Bread 

2 cups brown sugar, 2 eggs, 4 cups milk, 4 cups 
graham flour, 4 cups white flour, 8 tsp. baking powder, 
1 tsp. salt, % cup raisins, % cup chopped dates, I/2 ^^P 
walnut meats. 

Put sugar, dates, raisins and nuts in mixing bowl. 
Add flour sifted with salt and baking powder, alternate- 
ly with the milk mixed with the well-beaten eggs. Mix 
well and pour into greased pans. Set in Avarm place to 
rise and bake in slow oven 1 hour. Makes 3 small loaves. 

—Mrs, Milton F. Collion. 

J7 



For DELICIOUS DKSSEKTS 

USE 

SE ID E L'S 

SPONGE LADY FINGERS 

AND 

ALMOND MACAROONS 

Phone 1318 102 9 UNIVERSITY PL. 



Our Greatest Asset 



This institution is the oldest and largest bank on 
the North Shore, but its greatest asset does not show 
in its published statement. 

It is the good will of our customers — built up 
through fifty years of satisfying service to this com- 
munity. 

STATE BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
Davis at Orrington 



COMPLIMENTS OF 

WIELAND DAIRY CO. 

AMERICA'S FINEST DAIRY 

Phone 1318 102 9 UNIVERSITY PL. 

EVANSTON 

Phone Evanston 8548 

EVANSTON IRON LANTERN 

June Parker 9L Grace Bowland 




HINMAN at LEE 

Home Cooked Food at Reasonable Prices 



18 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Quick Nut Bread 
Sift together 2 cups flour, 2 tsp. baking powder, I/2 
cup sugar, % tsp. salt. Rub in 1 tbsp. shortening and 
y2, cup walnut meats ; add 1 beaten egg and 1 cup milk. 
Mix to a light dough, put in a wxll-greased pan, let 
stand 15 minutes, and bake in a moderate oven 45 min- 
utes. — Mrs. James H. Thomas, Mont Clair, N. J. 

Nut Bread 

1^ cups whole wheat flour, II/2 cups white flour, y^ 
cup sugar, 6 tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. salt, I/4 tsp. soda, 
1 cup chopped nuts, 1 ^^,g^ 1 cup sour milk. 

Mix the dry ingredients, add chopped nuts, un-beaten 
egg and the sour milk. Mix to a smooth dough ; turn into 
a well-greased pan and let stand 15 minutes. Bake in 
moderate oven (350°) 45 minutes. Sweet milk may be 
used, omitting the soda. — Mrs. H. B. Judson. 

Nut Bread 

4 cups flour, % cup sugar, I/2 tsp. salt, 4 tsp. baking 
powder, 1 cup chopped nuts, 1 egg, 1% cup milk. 

Beat the egg lightly; add the milk. Mix the dry 
ingredients and liquids together; add the nuts. Let 
stand in greased pan for 1 hour. Bake in moderate 
oven 1/2 hour. This makes 2 loaves. 

— Mrs. Florence O. Essig. 

Nut Bread 

1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, li/^ cups milk, 3 cups flour, 4 
tsp. baking powder, % tsp. salt and 1 cup chopped 
English walnuts. 

19 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Beat together the eggs and sugar. Add milk. Sift 
together flour, baking powder, salt. Add nut meats; 
mix all together. Pour into 2 one pound bread pans and 
bake in very slow oven for about 1 hour. 

— Mrs. H. S. Camp. 

Nut Bread 

11^ cups whole wheat flour, li/^ cups white flour, % 
cup sugar, 1 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. soda, 1 cup chopped nuts, 
1 egg, 6 level tsp. baking-powder, 1 cup sour milk. Mix 
dry ingredients and sift. Add chopped nuts, unbeaten 
egg and sour milk. Mix to smooth dough. Put into pan 
and let stand 15 min. Bake in a moderate oven 45 min. 
If sweet milk is used, omit soda. 

—Mrs. C. B. Coon. 

Nut Bread 
2 cups flour and 4 tsp, baking powder sifted together 
3 times. Add i/2 cup chopped nut meats, i^ cup sugar, 
1/2 tsp. salt, 1 egg (beaten), 1 cup sweet milk. Place in 
buttered bread pan ; let stand 20 minutes to rise. Bake 
slowly 45 minutes. — Mrs. Fred Mumm. 

Nut Bread 
1 cup brown sugar, 1 tbsp. butter, 2 eggs, 2 cups 
milk, Sy2 cups flour, 4 tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. salt 
and 1 cup nuts, chopped fine. 

Mix thoroughly ; let stand in pans 30 minutes to rise. 
Bake 1 hour. This makes 2 loaves. 

— Mrs. H. P. Johnson. 

20 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Nut Bread 

3 cups graham flour, 1 cup white flour, 14 cup sugar, 
1 tsp. salt, 2 tsp. baking powder, 2% cups milk and 1 cup 
nut meats. 

Mix dry ingredients; add the milk and nut meats. 
Mix thoroughly and let stand in greased bread pan, to 
raise for 25 minutes. Bake about 50 minutes. 

— Mrs. G. A. Nichols. 

Nut Bread 

% cup sugar, lyo cup sweet milk, 1 cup chopped nuts, 
4 cups flour, 1 egg, 4 tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. salt. 

Bake in baking powder cans about 45 minutes. (Do 
not fill the cans more than % full.) 

— Mrs. L. Erniil Butler. 

Graham Nut Bread 

1 cup brown sugar dissolved in 2 cups sour milk, 3 
cups graham flour, 1 cup white flour, 1 tsp. soda, 1 
tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. salt, I/2 cup chopped nuts 
and raisins. 

Sift soda, baking powder and salt w^ith white flour. 
Mix all ingredients thoroughly and let rise for 20 min- 
utes. Bake 1 hour. — Mrs. H. G. Smith. 

Whole "Wheat or Graham Bread 

8 cups graham flour, unsifted, 2 cups sifted white 
flour, 2 tsp. salt, 1/4 cup brown sugar, I/2 cup syrup or 
molasses, 1 yeast cake, 2 cups luke-warm water, 2 cups 
milk (scalded and cooled), 2 tbsp. mazola. 

21 



Telephone Euanslon 3035 



Charles Schramm 

T^lain and Ornamental 
T^lastering 

Stucco Work Our Specialty 

Repair Work 
Promptly attended to 




2433 Noijes Street 
Euanston 



22 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Dissolve yeast, sugar and syrup in luke-Avarm water, 
add mazola, then flour and salt gradually. Knead very 
thoroughly and set in warm place to rise until doubled 
in bulk. Mould into 3 loaves, let rise about 1 hour. Bake 
in slow oven 1 hour. : — Mrs. Eniil Nelson. 



Graham Breakfast Bread 

114 cups graham flour, % cup white flour, 2 tbsp. 
brown sugar, 1 tsp. salt, 2 tbsp. molasses, 1 cup sour 
milk, 1 tsp. soda in milk or flour, nuts and raisins. Mix 
in order given, bake slowly about 40 minutes. 

— Mrs. D. J. Bierwert. 



Oat Meal Bread 

Soak 1 cup oat meal in 3 cups hot water. Add ^^ 
cup molasses or strained honey. When luke-warm, add 
1 small yeast cake. Use sufficient white flour to make 
the dough easy to handle. Let rise 3 or more hours and 
bake from 45 to 60 minutes. This makes 4 small loaves. 

— Mrs. F. A. Pontious. 



Oatmeal Bread 

1 cup rolled oats, 1 pint boiling water, i/^ cup mo- 
lasses, 1 quart flour, 1 yeast cake and 1 tsp. salt. 

Pour water over the oats and let cool ; add the other 
ingredients. Mix thoroughly, but do not knead. Let 
rise, then mould into loaves, let rise again and bake 
slowly. — Mrs. Lindberg. 

23 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Bran Bread 

1 cup molasses, 1 tsp. soda, 1 tsp. salt, 2 cups sour 
milk or butter milk, 4 cups bran, 2 cups white flour, 1 
cup chopped dates, % cup chopped walnuts, 1 cup 
raisins. Stir well and bake in 2 loaves in moderate oven 
1 hour. —Mrs. W. M. Hofstetter. 



Bran Bread 

1 quart buttermilk, 1 cup molasses, 1 tsp. soda; add 
1 cup sugar, 8 cups bran, 4 cups flour, 2 heaping tsp. 
baking powder and a pinch of salt. After this is well 
mixed, add % package raisins and 14 ponnd chopped 
walnuts. Bake in moderate oven 1 hour. Makes 3 
loaves. —Mrs. W. L. Ball. 

Date Loaf 

1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup English walnuts, 1 package 
dates, seeded and chopped fine, 1 cup white flour, ly^ 
cups graham flour, V2 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. baking powder, 1 
tsp. soda, 2 cups sour milk. Mix all together and bake 
in slow oven 1 hour and 15 minutes. 

— Mrs. A. W. Johnson. 

Scotch Short Bread 

1 pound flour, 1/2 pound butter, l^ pound brown 
sugar and lard the size of an egg. 

Put flour and sugar on mixing board and blend well. 
Add butter and lard and mix until able to shape into 
little cakes. Bake in slow oven. — Mrs. Thomas Savage. 

24 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

[Jj^  

2 cups boiling jtrntPil, 2 large tbsp. lard, i/^ cup sugar 
scant, 1 or \eggs, 1 yeast cake, salt, 7% cups flour. 

Mix together lard, salt, and sugar with boiling water ; 
when this is almost cold add the yeast cake which has 
been dissolved in w^arm water, add the beaten eggs, then 
the flour. Allow to rise over night, then mix, allowing 
to I'ise again. Mould what is needed into buns, let rise 
until light and bake. Dough will keep several days if 
kept cold. This makes 40 buns. 

— Mrs. N. H. Byam. 



Parker House Rolls 

1 cake compressed yeast, 1 pint milk (scalded and 
cooled), 2 tbsp. sugar, 4 tbsp. lard or butter, 3 pints 
flour, 1 tsp. salt. 

Dissolve yeast and sugar in luke-warm milk; add 
shortening and IV2 pints flour. Beat until perfectly 
smooth, cover and let rise until light, about 1 hour. Add 
remainder of flour and the salt, knead well and let rise 
until double its bulk. Roll I/4 i^ch thick and cut with 
a 2-inch cutter ; crease with' dull edge of knife through 
the center and fold. Let rise again and bake in hot 
oven 10 minutes. — Mrs. J. A. Johnson. 



Luncheon Rolls 

V2 ^^^P scalded milk, 2 tbsp. sugar, 1/4 tsp. salt, V2 
yeast cake dissolved in 2 tbsp. luke-warm water, 2 tbsp. 
melted butter, 1 egg and flour. 

25 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



The Pillsbiiry Family 




REGISTERED. U. S. PATENT OFnCE 



Add sugar and salt to milk ; when luke-warm, add dis- 
solved yeast cake and % cup flour ; cover and let rise, 
then add butter, well-beaten egg and enough flour to 
knead. Let rise again, roll to % inch thickness, cut 
with small biscuit cutter, place in buttered pan close 
together, let rise and bake. — Grace Mumford Smith. 



Swedish Rolls or Toa^t 

3 cups milk, 1 cup water, 1 cup butter, 1 cup 
sugar, 1 yeast cake, 2 eggs, 1 dozen cardamon seeds. 

Scald the milk, add butter and water, when luke- 
warm add flour enough for soft dough ; add sugar, beaten 
eggs, crushed cardamon seeds and yeast cake dissolved 
in water. Beat well, add more flour, knead thoroughly. 
Let rise over night. In the morning make into rolls 
the size of a walnut, let rise again and bake in quick 
oven. Makes delicious toast when cut in half and slowly 
dried in the oven. — Mrs. S. N. Gustafson. 

26 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Rolls 
1 quart flour, 1 cup sugar, 1 tbsp. lard, 1 tbsp. but- 
ter ; scald all with 2 cups boiling water ; when cool, add 
2 well-beaten eggs and 1 dissolved yeasi: cake. Knead 
and use more flour if needed. Make into rolls, let rise 
and bake. Dough may be kept in ice box for two days. 

— Mrs. F. J. Kepler. 

Sweet Rolls 

1 pint milk, 1 yeast cake, % tsp. salt, enough flour to 
make a sponge as for bread. Let rise until light, add 3 
well-beaten eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup shortening, 1 tsp. 
vanilla flavoring if liked, flour to make a dough stiff 
enough to handle. Let rise until evening, make into 
rolls and let rise until morning. Brush with melted 
shortening when putting into pan and when baked 
brush with powdered sugar moistened with water. Bake 
in hot oven. — Mrs. G. L. Corke. 

Georgia Split Biscuits 
Boil and mash 3 potatoes, add 1 cup of lard and 
butter, half and half, 2 eggs beaten separately, and 1 
3^east cake dissolved in a pint of lukewarm milk, enough 
flour to make a stiff sponge. When light add a heaping 
tbsp. of salt, and 1 tbsp. of sugar. Work in enough 
flour for a smooth dough. Let rise and roll out to 
thickness of half an inch. Cut in biscuits, butter each 
and place one on top of the other. Crowd in pan to 
keep from spreading. Brush tops with melted butter, 
let rise again and bake 20 to 25 minutes. These are 
very good. Mrs. M. V. Smurr. 

27 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Beaten Biscuits 
2 cups flour, % cup buttermilk, 1 large tbsp. shorten- 
ing, 4 tsp. baking powder. Mix for 10 minutes by toss- 
ing and pounding on a floured bread board. Set in ice 
box 2 hours before baking. Dough may be kept for 
several days if kept cool. 

— Mrs. Lew Merrell. 



Pop Overs 

1 cup flour, 14 tsp. salt, % cup milk, 2 eggs, 14 tsp. 
melted butter. 

Mix salt and flour; add milk gi-adually in order to 
obtain a smooth batter ; add eggs beaten until light, then 
butter. Beat 2 minutes, using a Dover egg beater ; turn 
into hissing hot buttered iron gem pans. Bake 30 to 35 
minutes in hot oven. — Grace Mumford Smith. 

Sdotch Scones 

1/2 cup shortening, 2 cups flour, 4 tsp. baking powder. 
1 tbsp. sugar, 1 egg, I/2 cup milk, and I/2 tsp. salt. 

Sift together dry ingredients, work in shortening, add 
beaten egg and milk. Roll % inch thick, cut, brush over 
with milk. Bake in hot oven about 12 minutes. They 
look pretty cut in diamond shape. 

— Mrs. Ira Berry. 

Scotch Scones 

3 cups flour, 2 tsp. baking powder, i/^ tsp. salt, 2 tbsp. 
sugar, 1 tbsp. butter, 1% cups buttermilk, and 1 tsp. 
soda. 

28 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Mix dry ingredients, and work in cold butter; add 
buttermilk in which soda has been dissolved. Roll I/2 
inch thick and cut in diamond shapes. Flour bottom 
and sides of biscuit pan and place pieces in it. Bake in 
quick oven 20 or 25 minutes. 



-Mrs. F. Milhening. 






Popover Muffins 

2 cups flour, 11/2 cups milk, 2 eggs, 2 tbsp. melted 
butter, 2 tsp. baking powder and a little salt. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt together. Beat 
the eggs, stir in the milk, add to the f rist mixture ; then 
add the melted butter and bake in greased muffin pans. 

—Mrs. U. G. Buck. 



Raised Wheat Muffins 

2 cups flour, 1 cup milk, 1 tbsp. butter, i/^ tbsp. 
sugar, % tsp. salt, 1 Ggg, {egg may be omitted), % yeast 
cake. 

Pour flour, salt and sugar in bowl; boil milk, add 
butter and let it stand until lukewarm. Add milk, butter 
and yeast to the other mixture, beat well, cover, set in 
a cool place over night. In the morning the batter will 
be a light sponge. Add the beaten egg, fill buttered 
muffin pans 14 full, let rise in warm place. Bake 30 
minutes. — Mrs. Struebing. 

29 



A Recipe for Modernizing the Home. 

To Your liiving Room add 4 Side Brackets and 
2 Convenience Outlets for Reading Lamps. 

Replace Dining Room Fixture with late design 
Candle Light Fixture, that will mix with Living Room 
Brackets. 

Add Conveniance outlet for Vacuum Cleaner, Perco- 
lators, etc. 

Add 1 Kitchen Day Light Unit which gives the 
right amount of pep. And a Convenience Outlet, with 
a Side Bracket or two in the Bed Room gives a Bright 
New atmosphere to the Home. 

EVANSTON ELECTRIC SHOP 

ELECTRICAL CONTRACTIXG. 

1407 MAIN STREET 

S. C. WOOD — Ev. 5223 



Speirling & Linden 

Interior Decorators 



1216 MICHIGAN AVENUE 

Phone Calumet 0541 
CHICAGO 



30 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Whole Wheat Muffins 

11/2 cups Avhole wheat flour, i/^ cuj) white flour, 3 
tsj). baking powder, Vo tsp. salt, 1 egg, i/4 cup sugar, 1 
cup milk, 2 tbsp. melted butter. 

Mix dry ingredients, add egg well-beaten, the butter 
and milk. Beat well; bake in buttered muffin tins 25 
to 30 minutes. —Mrs. D. M. Cook. 



Bran Muffins. 

1 cup bran, 1 cup flour, 14 ^^P sugar, i/o tsj). salt, 
V2 tsp. baking powder, 7^^ tsp. soda, 1 cup sour milk, i^ 
cup Avater, ^ tbsp. shortening, and 1 egg. 

Beat sugar, egg and shortening together; add other 
ingredients. Mix thoroughly and bake in muffin tins. 

—Mrs. J. E. Hathaway. 



Graham Muffins 

1 cup white flour, 1 cup graham flour, 1 cup milk, 
3 tsp. baking powder, % tsp. salt, 2 tl)sp. shortening, 2 
tbsp. sugar, 1 egg. Mix together. Put in well-heated 
gem pans and bake about 20 minutes. 

—Mrs. J. H. Thomas, Mont Clair, N. J. 



Muffins 

1% cups sugar, large tbsp. butter, 3 eggs, 1 cup milk, 
3 tsp. baking powder, flour as for ordinary cake. 

— Mrs. C. A. Roney, Chicago. 
31 



/ 



NEIGHBOBUOOD COOK BOOK 
Muffins 



1 tbsp. sugar, 1 egg, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 
tsp.1 baking powder, and butter the size of an egg, 

'Mix' 'together and bake in muffin tins 15 or 20 
minutes. — Mrs. S. A. Low. 



Queen of Muffins 

Cream % cup of butter and 1 cup of sugar. Then 
add 2 well-beaten eggs. Sift 3 cups of flour with 3 tsp. 
baking powder, and add alternately with 1 cup of milk. 
Add a pinch of salt. Beat thoroughly for 2 min. and 
bake in small rings. — Edith Knox Wendland. 

Egg Muffins 

2 cups flour, 1 tsp. salt, 3 level tsp. baking powder, 

1 cup milk, 2 eggs, 3 tbsp. melted butter, 3 tbsp. sugar 
(may be omitted if desired). 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add beaten yolks of 
eggs, butter and milk. Beat well and fold in stiffly 
beaten white of eggs. 

Bake in hot oven 12 to 15 minutes. 

Recipe makes about 15 muffins. 

— Mrs. L. Ermil Butler. 

Spice Muffins 

1 egg, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup sour milk, % cup butter, 

2 cups flour, 1 tsp. soda, 1 tsp. each cloves, cinnamon 
and nutmeg, 1 cup raisins and nuts. Bake in muffin 
tins 20 minutes. — Mrs. Warren Edwards. 

32 



NEIGHBORHOOD CftOE BOOK 

Date Muffins 

% cup butter, 14 cup sugar, 1 egg, % cup milk, 2 cu^s^ 
pastry flour, 3 tsp. baking powder, % tsp. salt, 1/4 pound 
dates (scant), .^^- 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and eg^, beaten until 
light. Sift together 3 times, flour, baking powder and 
salt ! add to first mixture, alternately with the milk. Beat 
thoroughly, then add the dates, stoned and cut in pieces. 
Bake in a hot oven, in well-buttered muffin tins. 

—Mrs. E. W. Keast. 



Blueberry Muffins 

1/3 cup butter, 1/4 cup sugar, 1 egg well-beaten. Add 
% cups of milk alternately with 1% cups of flour sifted 
with 3 tsp. baking powder. Salt to taste. 1 cup blue- 
berries mixed with l^ cup flour. Bake 25 minutes. 

—Mrs. S. C. Wood. 



Graham Gems 

2 tbsp. sugar, 1 egg, 1 tbsp. lard, 1 cup water, 21/2 
cups graham flour and 2 tsp. baking powder. 

Mix together dry ingredients ; add water, beaten egg, 
and shortening. Bake in greased gem pans. 

—Mrs. W. H. Blake. 



33 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Graham Gems 

1 cup milk, 1 egg, 3 tbsp. butter, i/^ tsp. salt, 2 tsp. 
baking powder, 2 cups graham flour and 2 tbsp. sugar 
or molasses. 

Mix together dry ingredients, add milk, beaten egg, 
molasses and melted shortening. Bake in greased gem 
pans about 25 minutes. — Mrs. E. W. Keast. 



Japanese Hard Tack 

1 cup chopped nuts, 1 cup chopped dates, 1 cup 
sugar, % cup flour, l^ tsp. baking powder, pinch of 
salt, vanilla. 3 >W44 . 

Mix all together; add eggs last. Spread on a tin, 
very thin, and bake. , When baked, cut in little squares 
and shake in powdered sugar. Delicious. 
. — Mrs. O. Carlson. 



Waffles 

2 eggs, 2 tbsp. sugar, 2 heaping tbsp. butter, 1 pint 
milk, 1 pint flour, 1 tsp. salt and 2 heaping tsp. baking 
powder. 

Beat yolks of eggs, add sugar, milk and flour, then 
the melted butter. Just before ready to bake add baking 
powder and beaten whites of eggs. Bake in hot waffle 
irons. Makes about 10 medium-sized waffles. Serve 
with butter and maple syrup. 

—Mrs. E. W. Keast. 
34 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



Waffles 

1 egg, 1 cup flour, 1 cup milk, 1 heaping tsp. baking 
powder, % tsp. salt, 1 tsp. sugar, I/2 tbsp. melted butter. 

Mix beaten yolk with milk; add the flour, baking 
powder, salt, sugar, melted butter and fold in the beaten 
egg-white last. Bake in a well-greased waffle iron. 

—Mrs. 0. T. Mitchell. 



Waffles 

1% cups flour, 11/^ cups milk, 3 tsp. baking powder, 
y2 tsp. salt, 2 eggs, 1 tbsp. melted butter and 1 tbsp. 
sugar. 

Mix in the usual order, adding the stiffly-beaten egg 
whites last. Bake in a hot, well-greased waffle iron. 

— Mrs. S. A. Low. 



Golden Waffles 

Beat together quickly, 2 cups of milk and 2 well- 
beaten eggs. Then add 3 cups of flour, into last cup of 
which have been sifted 3 tsp. baking powder and a pinch 
of salt. Add a large piece of melted butter. Beat well 
and bake at once on hot waffle rings. 

— Edith Knox Wendland. 
35 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Sour Milk Pancakes 

2 eggs well beaten, i/^ tsp. salt, 1 tbsp. melted butter, 
2 cups sour milk, II/2 cups flour and 1 level tsp. soda. 
Beat well. — Mrs. E. W. Keast. 

Coffee Calje 
1 yeast cake, 6 tbsp. sugar, 2 tbsp. shortening, a 
little lemon and nutmeg, 1 egg, 1 cup milk, 1 tsp. salt, 
enough flour to make stiff with spoon. 

Set yeast in cup with luke-Avarm water and sugar, 
warm the milk, also the flour and mixing bowl. Cream 
sugar and shortening, (baccn fat may be used), add 
other ingredients and let rise. Put in shallow cookie tins 
and let rise again, brush the top with melted butter and 
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. 

— Mrs. Maurice E. Handke. 

Coffee Cak:e 

1/^ cup sugar, % cup lard and butter, 1 or 2 eggs, 1 
cup warm water, 1 cup milk, 1 compressed yeast cake, 
iy2 tsp. salt, 5 cups flour, raisins if desired. 

Mix the sugar, lard and salt, with the scalded milk; 
let stand until lukewarm. Dissolve the yeast cake in 14 
the warm water, add to the first mixture, together Avith 
the rest of the water and the beaten eggs ; add the flour 
and- beat well. Let rise over night ; in morning roll and 
put in to tins. Cover top with melted butter, sugar and 
cinnamon ; let rise until light and bake 20 minutes. This 
makes 2 large or 3 small cakes. 

— Mrs. Fred Stewart. 

36 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Coffee Cake 

1 egg, 4 tbsp. sugar, 4 tbsp. melted butter, 1 cup 
milk, 2 cups flour and 4 tsp. baking powder. 

Beat together until light the egg, sugar and butter. 
Add the milk, flour and baking powder. Bake 15 to 20 
minutes. 



Top for Coffee Cake 

4 tbsp. melted butter, 4 tbsp. sugar, 2 tbsp. flour, 1/2 
tsp. cinnamon. 

Blend together well and spread on cake l3efore bak- 
ing. — Mrs. W. A. Brodkorb. 



Coffee Cake 

1 pint milk, 1 yeast cake, Va tsp. salt, enough flour to 
make a sponge as for bread. Let rise until light, add 3 
well-beaten eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup shortening, 1 tsp. 
vanilla flavoring if liked, flour to make a stiff dough; 
stir but do not knead. Raisins or currants may be added 
if desired. Let rise until evening and then put in pans 
and let rise until morning. Put melted shortening, sugar 
and cinnamon on top when putting into pans. Bake 
in moderate oven. — Mrs. G. L. Corkc. 

37 



NEIGHBORUOOD COOK BOOK 

Coffee Cake 

1 cup sugar, 1 large tbsp. butter, 1 cup milk, 1 egg, 
3 level tsp. bak. powd. Add flour as for ordinary cake. 
When ready for the oven, butter the top and sprinkle 
with sugar and cinnamon. 

— Mrs. C. A. Roney, Chicago. 



Quick Coffee Cake 

1 heaping tbsp. butter, % cup sugar, 1 large or 2 
small eggs, I/2 cup milk, 1% cups flour and 2 tsp. baking 
powder. 

Put in pan and spread with butter, sugar, and cinna- 
mon. Bake in moderate oven. 

— Mrs. Geo. Knapp. 

Quick Coffee Cake 

2 cups brown sugar, 2 cups flour, 2 tbsp. shortening. 
Mix well. Take out a scant cup to put over the top. Add 
2 eggs, 1 cup sour milk, 1 tsp. bak. powd., 1 tsp. soda. 
Sprinkle with cinnamon. Bake in flat pans 20 minutes 
in moderate oven. — Mrs. C. E. Johnson. 



Quick Coffee Cake 

% cup sugar, 2 tbsp. Crisco, 1 egg, y^, cup milk, 1 
cup flour, 1 tsp. baking powder, salt, 1 tsp. cinnamon. 
Sprinkle cinnamon and sugar over the top. Serve hot. 

— Mrs. Helen Evans. 

38 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Apple Cake 

1 quart sifted flour, 2 eggs, 1 tsp. salt, 3 tsp. baking 
powder, 1 cup sugar, i^ cup butter, 2 cups milk, % tsp. 
nutmeg. 

Mix dry ingredients and blend with the butter. Add 
milk to the well-beaten eggs and stir thoroughly into the 
first mixture. Spread evenly in greased tins. Peel and 
slice apples and place in rows on dough; sprinkle with 
cinnamon, sugar and 2 tbsp. melted butter. Bake i/^ 
hour. —Mrs. Zeeck. 



Parker House Rolls. 

Yo cup mashed potatoes, 1 egg, 11/2 cups sifted flour, 
1 small yeast cake, % cup scalded milk, pinch of salt 
and 14 cup sugar. 

Mix thoroughly. Let rise 1 hour in a warm oven. 
Mix down. Let rise half its size, roll % inch thick, cut 
with biscuit cutter, fold over slightly. Let rise again 
and bake. — Mrs. J. C. Gardiner. 



39 



Doughnuls 



4X 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



DOUGHNUTS 



Raised Doughnuts 
Dissolve 1 j^east cake and 1 tbsp. sugar in I14 cups 
lukewarm milk which has been scalded and allowed to 
cool. Add 1% cups flour and beat well. Cover and 
set in warm place 1 hour or until bubbles burst on top ; 
add 3 tbsp. butter^ creamed with ^ cup sugar, % tsp. 
mace and salt, 1 well-beaten egg and about 3 cups flour, 
or enough to make a moderate soft dough. Knead light- 
ly, place in well-greased bowl, and allow to rise again. 
When light, roll about J inch thick, cut with small cutter 
and let rise once more on a floured board. When light, 
drop in deep fat with side up that has been next to the 
board. — Virginia Klein. 

Sour Milk Doughnuts 
1 cup sugar, 2 tbsp. lard, 1 cup sour milk, 1 tsp. 
soda, pinch of salt, 2 eggs, 1 tsp. each cinnamon and 
nutmeg, flour enough to roll. Cut out ; fry in deep fat. 

— ^I^Irs. Anna Samway. 

Doughnuts 

1 cup sugar, 3 tbsp. butter, level, 2 eggs, 1 cup sour 
milk, 1 tsp. soda dissolved in milk, 1 tsp. baking powder 
in enough flour to make a dough to roll. 

Mix in the order given, roll, cut in circles and fry 
in deep fat. — Mrs. I. P. Berry. 

43 



MADAM HOSTESS:— 

When your friends accept the hospitality of 
your home their appreciation is but a reflection 
of your pleasure in extending it. 

This pleasure results from complete satisfaction 
that your guests are well cared for in every way 
— but most particularly in your dining room. 
There your spirit of hospitality finds its best 
expression. 

It is but natural then that you feel a keen in- 
terest in having only the best foods served on 
your table. 

But are you getting the best — the greatest value 
in quality in return for yoiir expenditure? 
You will find it to your lasting advantage to 

familiarize yourself with 

RICHELIEU 

FERNDELL and BAT AVI A 

QUALITY FOODS 

Under these brands are packed complete lines 
of table svipplies possessing a distinctlj^ superior 
worth. 

The markets of the world contribute of their 
best for these products; while their uniform ex- 
cellence of character is insured by the skill, 
science and care employed in their preparation. 
They ARE different. 

Sprague, Warner & Company 

CHICAGO 



44 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Prize Doughnuts 

1 cup sugar, i/^ tsp. salt, 2 tbsp. melted shortening, 
2 eggs, 1 cup sweet milk, I/2 tsp. grated nutmeg, 4 level 
tsp. baking powder, 5 cups flour. 

Mix the first 3 ingredients until smooth and even. 
Add the eggs beaten slightly and beat all together 
thoroughly. Sift the flour, nutmeg and baking powder. 
Add the milk and sifted flour alternately to the first 
part. Put half the dough on a floured board and roll 
out about 14 i^ch in thickness. Cut with doughnut 
cutter and fry in deep fat until brown. When done, 
drain on paper towel 1 min, and roll in i^owdered sugar. 

— Miss Lillian Cooley. 



Potato Doughnuts . 

1 cup mashed potatoes, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 cup sugar, 
V2 ^up milk, 2 eggs, 4 tsp. baking powder, 3 cups flour, 
1 tsp. salt and nutmeg. 

Mix in the order given, roll thin, cut and fry in hot 
fat. —Mrs. H. G. Smith. 



Potato Fried Cakes 

Boil and mash 5 medium-sized potatoes; add 1 tsp. 
butter, 1 tsp. salt, 3 cups sugar and 1 cup milk. When 
cool add 3 eggs, 6 cups flour, 6 tsp. baking powder, % 
tsp. each cinnamon and nutmeg. Roll thin, cut out and 
fry. Makes 8 dozen. Needs 2 lbs. lard to fry. Excel- 
lent. — Mrs. G. C. Carnright. 

45 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Douglinuts 

4 cups sugar, 3 cups buttermilk, 8 eggs, 3 tsp. soda, 
li/^tsp. salt, 1 grated nutmeg, 2 tbsp. hot lard. 
This makes 7 dozen. (Very fine.) 

— Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

Apple Fritters 

114 cups flour, 2 tsp. baking powder, % tsp. salt, % 
cup milk, 1 egg. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add milk gradually and 
the egg well-beaten. Pare and cut 2 medium-sized apples 
in slices and stir in batter. Drop by spoonfuls in deep 
hot fat until brown. Drain on paper and sprinkle with 
powdered sugar. — Mrs. C. U. Olson. 

Rice Croquettes 

2 cups boiled rice, 14 tsp. salt, 1 tbsp. flour, 1 egg; 
mix well. Form into oblong cones, dip in well-beaten 
egg, then in finely-crushed cracker crumbs and fry in 
hot lard until light brown. — Mrs. Victor White. 

Com Fritters 

2 eggs beaten smooth, 1 cup flour, i^ tsp. baking 
powder, % cup milk, 1 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. salad oil. Beat 
together with a dover beater until smooth and glossy, 
add 1 can of corn, mix well. Drop by spoonfuls into 
boiling fat. 

Sliced apple may be .used in place of corn. 

— Mrs. S. N. Gustafson. 

46 



Cookies and Gingerbread 



47 



: 1 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



COOKIES AND GINGERBREAD 



Cookies 

3 cups brown sugar, 1 cup lard, 1 cup water, 2 tsp. 
soda, 1/^ tsp. salt, 1 tsp. each cinnamon, nutmeg and 
ginger, I/2 cup raisins, flour enough for soft batter to 
roll. 

^lix together in the order given, dissolving soda in 
water. Roll thin, cut in shapes, and bake. 

—Mrs. V. White. 

Every Day Cookies 

4 tbsp. shortening, li/^ cups sugar, 3 eggs well- 
beaten, lemon extract. Mix these well and add : 4 tsp. 
Calumet baking powder, sifted with 4 cups flour and 
1/2 tsp. salt, 1/^ cup or more milk. Make stiff enough to 
roll. Cut in shapes and bake. Makes 60 cookies. 

—Mrs. W. E. Hosier. 

Thin Crisp Cookies 

1/2 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1/2 cup nuts (preferably 
almoiids or black walnuts), 2 tbsp. milk, 2 tsp. baking 
pow^der, 1 egg, i/4 tsp. salt, 2 cups f lorn*, i/^ tsp. vanilla. 
Cream butter, add sugar and egg. Beat constantly, then 
add flour, baking powder and salt mixed, alternating 
with milk. Mold in long flat roll as large around as you 
want cookies. Chill thoroughly over night. Slice and 
bake 10 minutes in a moderate oven. 

—Mrs. G. F. Falley. 

49 



thEIOR^shop 

1836 RIDGE AVENUE 
EVANSTON ILL. 

AUTO -BODIES AND 
FENDERS REPAIRED 



PHONE EVANSTON 8097 



AJ.GORE PROP. 



Use more Milk! 



In all cooking and baking. It will add a delicious 
flavor. 

You can be sure of pure, rich milk, if you IN- 
SIST ON 



Bowman MjiL 

Phone Evanston 380 



Phone 363 



North Shore Animal Hospital 

Equipped to render efficient and humane service 
EVANSTON, ILL. 



Phone Neva-da 3171 
Estimates Given on Carpets and Linoleum 

J. M. LIGHTBECKER 

Carpet & Linoleum Laying 

20 SOUTH CALIFORXIA AVENUE 

CHICAGO 



50 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Cookies 

1 egg, 1 cup sugar, 1 heaping cup beef drippings, 
mixed spices — ginger, cinnamon and cloves, 1 cup thick 
sour cream, 1 cup molasses, flour enough to roll. 

— Mrs. S. F. Burden. 

Sour Cream Cookies 

% cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, I/4 tsp. soda, 3^2 
tsp. baking powder, 21/2 cups flour, V2 cup sour cream, 
vanilla and nutmeg flavoring. 

— Mrs. A. H. Graves. 

Sour Cream Cookies 

% cup butter, IV2 cup sugar, 3 eggs (well-beaten), 
1 cup thick sour cream, 1 tsp. soda (dissolved in cream), 
3 cups flour, 1 tsp. baking powder (scant), 1 tsp. ginger, 
1 tsp. cinnamon, i/^ tsp. cloves, pinch of salt, 1 cup 
walnut meats, 1 cup raisins, (cut in two). Drop from 
spoon. — Mrs. E. R. Pulliam. 

Frosted Creams 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 3 egg yolks, 1 cup half 
lard and half butter, 1 cup sour milk, 1 tsp. ginger, 
cinnamon and cloves, 4 cups sifted flour, 3 tsp. soda, 
dissolved in sour milk. Bake in shallow pans and frost. 

Frosting 

iy2 cups sugar. Dissolve the sugar with a little water 
and boil until it threads; then pour over the well-beaten 
whites of 3 eggs. -—Mrs. Ira Shearer. 

51 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Sour Cream Cookies 

2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup sour cream, 1 tsp. soda, 1 
cup chopped raisins, 1/2 cup lard and butter, 2 cups flour, 
pinch salt, vanilla. Drop from tsp. upon buttered tins. 

— Mrs. Clarence Rich. 



Mother Hobson's Cookies 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup lard, 1 cup sweet 
milk, 2 level tsp. soda, 2 tsp. cinnamon, V2 tsp. cloves, 
14 tsp. mace, i^ tsp. salt, about 5 cups flour. Roll out 
as soft as possible and cut in oblong squares. 

FROSTING— 1 cup pulverized sugar, 1/2 tsp. vanilla, 
y2 tsp. lemon, 2 tbsp. hot water. Spread thin on cookies. 

— Mrs. A. S. Maxham. 



Rainy Day Cookies 

4 eggs, 3 cups brown sugar, 2 cups butter, 8 cups 
flour, 2 tsp. soda, 2 tsp. ginger. 

Cream butter and sugar, beat the eggs well, mix all 
together. Roll thin, cut in shapes and bake. 

— Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

Dark Drop Cookies 

1 cup brown sugar, i^ cup shortening, 1 egg, ^ cup 
each hot water and molasses, 1 tsp. each soda, baking 
powder, cinnamon, cloves and salt, sifted with 2% cups 
flour. 

Mix well, drop from small spoon upon greased tin 
and bake in quick oven. — Mrs. Ed. Holtz. 

32 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Frosted Creams 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses. 1 cup lard, i/^ cup sour 
milk, 2 eggs, (save white of one for icing), 1 tsp. cinna- 
mon, 1 tsp. nutmeg, 3 tsp. soda, 1 tsp. salt, flour. 

Cream sugar and lard, add beaten eggs, molasses, 
spices, soda dissolved in milk and enough flour to make 
quite stiff. Drop from spoon on buttered pans and 
bake. Cover with icing. 

Icing 

1 cup sugar, % cup water. Boil until it threads: 
pour in the beaten white of 1 egg, beating until thick 
enough to spread on cakes 

— Mrs. Wallace Severance. 

Oatmeal Cookies 
1 cup sugar, 1 cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 tsp. soda, 6 tbsp. 
sour milk, 1 tsp. cinnamon, i^ cup cho])ped raisins, i/^ 
cup chopped nut meats, 2 cups flour, 2 cups oatmeal, 
not cooked. 

Mix in the order given, dissolving soda in milk. Drop 
by teaspoons into greased pan; bake in moderate oven. 

—Mrs. H. W. Corke. 

Oat Meal Drops. 

1 cup lard, 1 cup sugar, 8 tbsp. milk, 2 eggs, 1 tsp. 
soda, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 1/2 tsp. salt, 2 cups flour, 2 cups 
dry rolled oats, 1 cup chopped raisins. 

Cream lard with sugar, add beaten eggs; sift salt, 
soda and spices with flour; mix other ingredients in 
order given. Drop from a spoon on well-greased tins. 

— Mrs. A. W. Johnson. 
53 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Oatmeal Macaroons 

4 cups oats, 2 cups brown sugar, 1 cup melted butter, 
2 eggs, 2 cups cocoanut, 2 cups flour, 1 tsp. soda, % tsp. 
baking powder, pinch of salt. 

Drop egg yolks into melted butter and sugar, beat 
well^ add cocoanut and salt. Dissolve soda in a little 
hot water. Add oats and li^ cups flour, the last half 
cup of flour sparingly. Fold in well-beaten whites, drop 
from spoon and bake 15 minutes in a slow oven. 

— Mrs. Milton Collion. 

Oatmeal Oookies 

1 cup lard, 3 eggs, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup white 
sugar, 1 cup cocoanut, 4 cups oatmeal, 2 cups flour, 1 
tsp. salt. 

Cream lard and sugar, add egg yolks ; sift flour with 
2 tsp. baking powder and add to the first mixture, then 
add the oatmeal and cocoanut. Fold in the stiffly-beaten 
whites after the ingredients have been thoroughly mixed. 
Drop from spoon and bake in moderate oven. If you 
cannot eat them send them to me. 

— ^Mrs. Chas. Langill. 

Oatmeal Cookies 

11/^ cups oatmeal, 1 cup chopped raisins, 1 cup sugar, 
% cup lard and butter, 2 eggs beaten light, li/4 cups 
flour, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 1 tsp. vanilla, pinch of salt, 1 tsp. 
soda dissolved in hot water, 5 tbsp. sour milk, sour 
cream or hot water. 

Cream sugar and shortening, add eggs and the other 
ingredients in order given. Drop by spoonfuls on 
greased pan. Bake in moderate oven. — ^Mrs. C. U. Olson. 

54 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Oatmeal Drops 

3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup lard, 2 cups rolled oats, 2 
cups flour, 1 cup raisins and currants, 2 tsp. cinnamon, 
6 tbsp. sweet milk, 1 tsp. soda and a little baking 
powder. Drop in well-greased pan and bake. 

—Mrs. W. C. Fort. 

Oatmeal Macaroons 

1 cup sugar, 1 tbsp. melted shortening, 2 eggs, % tsp. 
salt, 2y2 cups rolled oats, 2 tsp. baking powder and 1 
tsp. flavoring. 

Cream sugar with shortening, add egg yolks, salt and 
rolled oats, add baking powder, beaten egg whites and 
flavoring; mix thoroughly. Drop on greased tins about 
half teaspoon to each macaroon allowing space for 
spreading. Bake about 10 minutes in moderate oven. 

' Molasses Cookies 

% cup molasses, y^ cup sugar, ^ cup shortening, % 
cup hot water, with 1 tsp. soda, % tsp. salt, % tsp. 
ginger, and flour sufficient to roll out. These are much 
better if stirred stiff Avith spoon. Set in a cool place 
over night. Roll and bake. 

— Mrs. J. E. Hathaway. 

Molasses Cookies 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup molasses, % cup 
buttermilk, 3 tsp. soda, 1 tsp. ginger and other spices to 
suit the taste. Mix in the usual order, roll thin, cut, 
and bake. - — Mrs, D. L. Miller. 

55 



Phone 313 



GEO. A. KEARNEY I 

SANITARY ENGINEER 




1141 OAK AVIENUE 

EVANSTON, ILL. 



A GOOD RECEIPT 

For a comfortable home next winter: Buy your 
fuel of the NORTH SHORE COAL COMPANY. 

Nothing but the best of selected fuels. 

CHICAGO 

Solvay Goifee 



Less Ash ^BECTw GiiaranteM 

Greater Efficiency yl/KSm Satisfaction 




YARD, 1520 LYONS STREET 

Phones: Evanston 1343; Wilmette 1400 



56 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Ice Box Cookies 

1 lb. butterine, except one small slice, 1 cup brown 
su^ar, 1 cup white sugar, 3 eggs, 5 cups flour, 1 tsp. 
soda, 1 tsp. vanilla, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 1 cup black walnut 
meats, chopped. 

Cream shortening and sugar, add eggs unbeaten, sift 
flour, add soda to first cup flour, sift again and add to 
mixture, then add remainder of flour and other ingredi- 
ents. Knead, but do not roll. Put in dripping pan 
about 12 inches square. Let stand over night. In 
morning cut in 3 strips. Slice thin when ready to bake. 
The strips may be wrapped in waxed paper placed in ice 
box and baked as needed. Bake in m^msime oven 5 
minutes. They are supposed to be crisp. Do not keep 
in cake box. Makes 200 cookies. 

— Mrs. H. B. Judson. 



Ice Box Cookies 

1 lb. butter, 3 eggs, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup white 
sugar, 1 tbsp. cinnamon, 5 cups flour, 1 scant tbsp. soda, 
1/4 lb. almonds. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, beaten eggs, cinna- 
mon and soda mixed with the flour. Knead well, roll in 
one large roll or loaf, tiet stand all night in ice box 
or cool place. In morning cut in thin slices and bake 
in nfrnir i fpT oven. Before baking idace the almonds 
shaved in thin slices in a simple design on the cookies. 

—Mrs. E. Duble. 
57 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Chocolate Hermits 

% cup shortening, % cup white sugar, 2 eggs, I/2 cup 
seeded raisins or currants, i/4 tsp. salt, 2 level tsp. baking 
powder, 2 cups flour, i/4 cup cocoa, 2 tbsp. hot water, 
1 tsp. cinnamon. 

Cream butter. Add sugar, eggs, raisins, flour in 
which baking powder, salt and cinnamon have been 
sifted. Add cocoa mixed in hot water. (More water 
may be needed.) 

Drop from spoon onto greased pan and bake iii 
moderate oven. ^ 

— Mrs. L. Ermil Butler. 

fe. 

Chocolate Cookies 

1 cup sugar, i/^ cup butter, 1 egg, % cup sour milk 
or cream, % tsp. soda in milk, 3 squares melted choco- 
late, 2 cups flour, 1 cup nuts, 1 cup raisins, vanilla. 

Mix in order given. Drop on buttered cookie sheet. 

— Mrs. D. J. Bierwert. 

Indians, (Chocolate Cookies) 

V2 cup butter, 2 squares bitter chocolate, large size ; 
add 2 eggs well-beaten, I/2 cup flour, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup 
nuts. Spread about % inch thick in square pan and 
])ake slowly for 20 minutes. Cool and cut in large 
squares. — ^Mrs. James H. Morey. 

Sug^ar Cookies 
1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 tsp. baking powder, 4 
l])sp. milk, 2 eggs, 1 tsp. lemon juice. Flour to mix and 
I'oll thin. — Mrs. Emil Nelson. 

58 



%: 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Sugar Cookies 
2 scant cups sugar, 1 cup lard, 1 cup sour milk, 1 
tsp. soda, 1 level tsp. baking powder, 2 eggs, salt, flavor- 
ing,, flour to make a soft dough. Roll rather thin. Cut 
and bake quickly. — Mrs. J. D. Kindig. 

Spice Cookies 

1 cup syrup, 1 cup sugar. Let come to a boil and 
cool. 1 cup cream, 2 egg yolks, i/o tsp. cloves, 2 tbsp. 
grated orange peel, pinch of salt, pinch of allspice, 1 
heaping tsp. baking soda, dissolved in hot water, flour 
to roll, not too stiff. — ^IVIrs. C. U. Olson. 

Spice Cake 

1 cup sugar, % cup butter, 2 eggs, i/2 cup milk or 
cold coffee, 1 tsp. baking powder, li/4 cups flour, 1 cup 
raisins. Spices — cassia, cloves and nutmeg. 

— Mrs. A. H. Graves. 

Cream Cookies 

1 cup sugar, 1 egg, i/4 tsp. salt, 1 cup sour cream, 
1/2 tsp. soda, dissolved in some cream, 1 tsp. baking 
powder, flour to make thick batter. Drop from teaspoon 
on greased tins. ^Mrs. I. P. Berry. 

Vanilla Cookies 
1 cup sugar, % cup butter, 2 eggs, 2 tbsp. milk, 2 
tsp. vanilla, 1 tsp. baking powder, flour enough to make 
as soft as can be handled. Bake in hot oven. 

—Mrs. U. G. Buck. 

^9 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Caramel Cookies 
Mix 1/^ cup butter, I/2 ^^p lard, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 
5 t])sp. sweet milk, a small tsp. salt, 2 cups rolled oats, 
2 cups flour, 1 tsp. cinnamon, a pinch of cloves and % 
tsp. of soda. Drop by bits on a baking pan. 

— Mrs. F. C. Nilsson. 

Date Strips 

3 eggs well beaten, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup flour, 5 tbsp. 
hot water, 1 cup walnut meats, 1 cup chopped dates, 
2 tsp. baking powder, y^, tsp. cinnamon, pinch of salt. 

Mix together in the order given; spread thinly in 
square pans. Bake in slow oven ; cut in strips when 
done. — Mrs. J. D. Kindig. 

Date Bars 
Beat 3 eggs into 1 cup of sugar and pinch of salt. 
Add % cup flour, sifted with 1 tsp. baking powder, 1 
tsp. vanilla, 1 package cut dates, 1 cup nuts. Bake % 
hour, and cover with powdered sugar. Cut in bars. 

—Mrs. Bruce W. Thayer. 

Date Cookies 

2 cups rolled oats, 21/2 cups flour, 1 cup brown sugar, 
1/^ cup butter, 1/2 ^^P l^^'d, V^ cup sour milk, 1 tsp. soda. 

FILLING. 1 lb. dates, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup hot 
water ; cook until smooth and thick. Roll the dough out 
quite thin, spread filling between two layers and bake in 
sheets in hot oven. When cool cut in squares. 

—Mrs. C. B. Coon. 

60 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Date Bars 

,1 Ibf dates stoned ^nd chopped, 1 tsp. ^oda sprinkled 
over thc: dates, tlien* 1 ewp. boilingJ^Avater poured over 
ihem^Jjei eool and drain ; add to the dates. 1 cup 
sugar^ i/3".cup creamed butter, 1 egg beaten.' Then add IV2 
cups flour, y2 cup nut meats and the water drained from 
the dates. Mix all well together. Bake slowly 45 min- 
utes in pan 7x12 inches. Cut in bars when cold. 

—Mrs. G. F. Falley. 

Date Sticks 

3 whole eggs, pinch salt, 1 cup granulated sugar, 1 
cup flour, 1 tsp. baking powder. Cut up a package of 
dates and add 1 cup of chopped walnut meats. Put the 
dates in the flour and add eggs, slightly-beaten, and 
enough milk to moisten. Spread thin in dripping pan. 
Bake in slow oven, and powder with pulverized sugar. 
Cut while hot into strips. 

— Mrs. H. McPherrin. 



Filled Cookies 

% cup shortening, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, ^2 eup milk, 1 
tsp. flavoring, I/2 tsp. salt, 3I/2 cups flour and 4 tsp. 
bakings powder. 

Cream shortening; add sugar, beaten egg, milk and 
flavoring ; add flour, salt and baking powder, which have 
been sifted together. Roll thin on slightly floured board 
and cut with cookie cutter. Place 1 tsp. of filling on 
each cookie, cover with another cookie, press edges 
together. Bake in moderate oven 12 to 15 minutes. 

61 For fillhij;, see pa-e 11 




MONARCH 




The only real competitor of the MONARCH 
line is the Housewife, who painstakingly puts up 
her own reserve table supplies. 

But there come times when you are unable to 
procure the quality of raw materials which will 
satisfy. Then you can turn to MONARCH with 
full confidence that in using them, you will serve 
your family with a Trade Marked Brand of foods 
that compare in quality with your own home 
product. 

Monarch Products You Should Know 

Coffee, Cocoa, Tea, Catsup, Chili Sauce, Sweet 
Pickles, Preserves, Jelly, Mayonnaise Dressing, 
Thousand Island Dressing, Olive Oil, Peanut But- 
ter, Tomatoes, Spinach, Asparagus, Corn, Peas, 
Beets, Pumpkin, Red Kidney Beans, Sliced Pine- 
apple, Loganberries, Red Pitted Cherries, Grape 
Fruit Hearts, Sliced Peaches, Fruit Salad, Pears, 
Yellow Cling Peaches, Red Raspberries, Apricots, 
Crushed Pineapple. 







QUALITY 

REID, ^lURDOCH & CO. 

Established 1853 

Chicago — Boston — Pittsburgh 
New York 




62 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Fruit Cookies 
2 cups brown sugar, % cup butter, 2 eggs, % cup 
sour milk, 1 tsp. soda in the milk, 1 tsp. baking powder 
(in enough flour to handle the dough), i/^ tsp. cloves, 
1/2 tsp. cinnamon, I/2 tsp. allspice and nutmeg. Roll and 
bake in hot oven. Raisins or currant!^ or both may be 
used in these cookies. — Mrs. F. C. Nilsson. 

Nut Cookies 

1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup w^hite sugar, 1 cup butter, 
1 cup chopped nuts, 14 ^^P l^ot water, 3I/2 cups flour, 2 
eggs, 1 tsp. soda, 1 tsp. salt, 1 tbsp. vanilla. Mix 
together, roll in loaf and let stand in ice box until 
morning. Then slice off and bake in moderate oven. 

— Mrs. Luella King. 

Vanity 

2 eggs well beaten, a pinch of salt, thicken with flour. 
Make quite stiff. 

Roll very thin, cut in strips 1 inch wide, 3 inches 
long, fry in deep lard until brown. Sprinkle with 
powdered sugar before serving. 

— ^Mrs. J. E. Hathaway. 

"Browpies" Cookies 

2 eggs (beaten), 1 cap gi^ar. V^ cup butter, melted 
with 2 squares Baker's Chocolate. Beat all together. 
Stir in 1 scant cup flour and 1 cup black walnut meats. 
Spread thin and bake quickly. Cut while hot into 2 
inch strips, but do not remove cookies from pan until 
they are cool. — Mrs. J. C. Murley. 

63 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Ginger Creams 
1 egg, 1 scant cup sugar, % cup butter, % «up mo- 
lasses, y2 cup cold water, 1 tsp. soda, 1 tsp. j?inger, 1 tsp. 
cinnamon, 14 tsp. nutmeg, i/^ tsp. cloves, 2 cups flour, 
pinch of salt. Bake in square tins. When cold, cut in 
squares and ice. — Mrs. Hunter Nethery. 

Ginger Snaps 
1 egg, 11/^ cup sugar, I/2 ^^^P molasses, 1 cup lard 
and butter mixed, I/2 cup water or sour milk, 1 tbsp. 
soda dissolved in the water or milk, 1 tbsp. ginger, cinna- 
mon and cloves together. Flour to make soft dough, 
unless milk is used, then make a stiff dough. 

—Mrs. E. R. Pulliam. 

Cocoanut Balls 

1 lb. shredded cocoanut, 1 can Borden's condensed 
milk. Mix well with hands and form in balls. Put in 
greased pan and bake until broAvn. 

— Mrs. Lorenzen. 

Cocoanut Cookies 

2 cups corn flakes, 1 cup dry cocoanut, 1 cup white 
sugar, whites of 2 eggs, (beaten very stiff) ; add 1 tsp. 
vanilla extract. — Mrs. C. Malm. 

Cocoanut Macaroons 
1 Qgg well-beaten, i/^ cup sugar, % cup cocoanut and 
1 cup rolled oats. Make into small round cakes and 
bake in a quick oven until crisp. 

—Mrs. W. C. Fort. 



64 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Swedish Sprits Cookies 

1/2 lb. butter, % cup sugar, 3 egg yolks, 4 grated bitter 
almonds or almond extract, 21/^ cups flour. 

Mix in the order given, shape in letter S with pastry 
tube. Bake in hot oven. — Mrs. C. U. Olson. 



Spritzar 

1 lb. butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 whole egg, 1 yolk, 10 bitter 
and 10 sweet almonds, 14 tsp. baking powder, about 3i/^ 
cups flour. 

Put through a pastry tube and bake. 

— Mrs. 0. Carlson. 

Sponge Drops 

2 eggs, 1 cup sour cream, % cup sour milk, 2 cups 
sugar, 1% tsp. soda, 3I/2 cups flour, vanilla. Mix 
together, and drop by spoonfuls on greased pans. 

—Mrs. W. L. Ball. 

Jewish Cookies 

3 eggs, % cup granulated sugar, beat five minutes. 
1 lb. dates and 1 cup walnut meats cut in pieces, 4 tbsp. 
flour, 1 tsp. vanilla, 1 tsp. baking powder. 

Mix 1 tbsp. flour with the dates and nuts, rest of 
flour and baking powder together, add to the beaten 
sugar and eggs. Add flavoring and spread in square 
pans quite thin. Bake very slowly. Cut in squares and 
when cold sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

— Mrs. G. C. Carnright. 
65 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Marguerites 
Use any boiled icing, i^ lb. dates or raisins chopped 
fine, % lb. walnuts, chopped; beat thoroughly in icing 
and spread between wafers or crackers. 

— Mrs. G. A. Burton. 

Marguerites 
2 eggs, 1 cup brown sugar, y^, cup flour, 14 "^^V- 
baking powder, % tsp. salt, 1 cup pecan nut meats 
broken in small pieces. Beat eggs slightly, add other 
ingredients, fill small buttered tins two-thirds full, and 
bake in moderate oven fifteen minutes. 

—Mrs. C. U. Olson. 

Lace Wafers 

Beat 1 cup sugar with beaten yolks of 2 eggs, add 
beaten whites and 1 tsp. vanilla. Fold in 4 cups corn- 
flakes. Drop from spoon on inverted pan (unbuttered) 
and bake in slow oven. Remove with cake turner. 
Makes about 40. — Mrs. J. W. Kassel. 

Almond Shorts 

1 pound butter, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup white sugar, 
3 eggs, 5 cups flour, i/^ tsp. soda, 1 tsp. cinnamon, i/^ 
lb. almonds. 

Cream butter and sugar, add eggs; sift flour with 
cinnamon and add gradually to mixture, blending well 
after each addition. Mix soda with a little hot water 
and add to mixture ; add almonds whole. Shape in loaf 
and set in a cool place over night. Cut in slices and 
bake. — Mrs. S. N. Gustafson. 

66 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Rolled Oat Macaroons 

1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 tbsp. melted butter, 1 cup 
Sunsweet Prunes, washed, pitted and chopped, 2 cups 
rolled oats, 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Beat eggs until light. Gradually add sugar, then 
remaining ingredients. Drop with teaspoon on gi^eased 
cookie pans and bake in moderate oven until golden 
brown. — Miss Alice Miller. 

Frozen Dainties 
1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup granulated sugar, 1 cup 
lard, 1 cup butter, 3 eggs, 3 cups flour, 1 tsp. each of 
salt, soda, and cloves, 1 cup chopped nuts, about 21/^ 
cups flour to knead. 

Roll to preferred size and place in ice box over night. 
In the morning slice and bake. 

— Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

Shavings 
3 eggs, Aveigh to the oz. very accurately, same weight 
of flour, butter and sugar. Drop on buttered pan and 
bake in moderate oven until light broAvn. While still 
hot, roll over mailing tube, covered with oiled paper, into 
cones. — Mrs. Victor White. 

Russian Rocks 

11/2 cup dark brown sugar, y^ cup butter, 1 cup 
raisins, 1 cup walnuts (chopped), 1 tsp. vanilla, 2 eggs, 
1/2 cup milk, 3 cups flour, 1 tsp. soda. Mix soda and 
flour and sift three times. Drop from small spoon on 
greased pan. —Mrs. C. H. Good. 

67 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Molasses Drop Cakes 

% cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup 
cold water, 2 eggs beaten, 2 tsp. soda heaping, % tsp. 
cloves, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 1 tsp. ginger heaping, 5 cups 
flour. 

Dissolve soda in water and mix together in the order 
given. Drop from spoon into pan and bake. 

— Mrs. Luella King. 

Cheese Straws 

4 tbsp. flour, 6 tbsp. cheese, 4 tbsp. butter, pinch 
salt, pinch of cayenne, 1 egg yolk. 

Rub butter into flour, and add grated cheese, salt, 
and cayenne. Mix to a paste with egg yolk. Roll into 
eighth-inch thickness. Cut into narrow strips about 5 
inches long, and bake in a hot oven 10 minutes. 

— ^Mrs. Emil Nelson. 

Browliies 

1 cup sugar, % cup butter, 2 eggs, 2 squares of 
chocolate, pinch of salt, % tsp. vanilla, 1 cup flour, 1 
cup wabiuts. Cream butter and sugar ; add eggs l)eaten 
light. Stir in melted chocolate and add salt, flour, wal- 
nuts and vanilla. Pour into square pan and l)ake 25 
minutes. Cut into squares. — Mrs. W. L. Ball. 

Soft Ginger Cookies 
1 cup N. O. molasses, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup 
shortening, 1 tbsp. ginger, 1 tbsp. soda, 1 cup boihng 
water, 4 cups flour, 3 eggs. Put molasses, sugar and 

68 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

shortening in bowl ; add boiling water in which soda has 
been dissolved. Beat well, add flour and ginger, and 
beat again. Add well-beaten eggs (just 1 egg makes 
good cookies) . Drop from tbsp. on cookie tin and bake 
in moderate oven. Makes 36 large cookies. 

— Mrs. Sarah Swingle. 

Ging-er Bread 

% cup molasses, % cup sugar, % cup butter (fill cup 
with boiling water), 1 egg (beaten), 1% cup flour, 1 
small tsp. soda, sifted in flour, % tsp. each cinnamon 
and cloves, 1 tsp. ginger. Bake in sheet 30 minutes. 

—Mrs. E. R. PuUiam. 

Ginger Bfread 

% cup butter, % cup boiling water, 1 cup molasses, 1 
cggj 2% cups flour, iy2 tsp. soda, % tsp. salt, 1 tsp. 
cinnamon, 1 tsp. ginger, y^ tsp. allspice or cloves. Mix 
dry ingredients. Put butter in cup and fill with water. 
Add molasses, egg well-beaten, then dry mixture. Bake 
in large shallow pan about 30 minutes. 

— Mrs. M. Belle Woods. 

Small Ginger Bread 

^4 cup shortening, % cup sugar, 1 egg unbeaten, 1 
tsp. soda, 1 cup buttermilk or sour milk (scant), % cup 
molasses. Sift together 2 scant cups flour, 1 tsp. gii^er, 
i/4tsp. salt, spices to taste, and add to other mixture. 
Bake in slow oven, hot at first. 

— ^Mrs. C. H. Hathaway. 
69 



Phone Evanston 5995 



Ricklef s & Schuett Co. 

Incorporated 

Lighting Equipment 




606 DAVIS STREET 

EVANSTON 



Phones 

1964 



( 1964 
Superior] ^^^^ 

J. B. Noelle Company 

PAINTING :: FINISHING 
DECORATING 

864-8 NORTH FRANKLIN STREET 

CHICAGO 

70 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Ginger Bread 

1 cup sugar, I/2 cup lard or butter, I/2 cup molasses, 

1 large tsp. soda dissolved in cup of hot water. V2 tsp. 
ginger, 1 scant tsp. cinnamon, 1 tsp. allspice, 2 cups 
flour, or enough to make stiff batter; then break in 2 
eggs and pinch of salt. Mix thoroughly. 

— Mrs. A. G. Aeppli. 

Ginger Bread 

1 ^SS, V2 cup shortening, % cup molasses, 1 tsp. 
ginger, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 2 tsp. soda, 1 cup boiling water, 

2 cups flour. Mix as plain cake, adding flour last ; looks 
very thin but it is all right. 

— Mrs. A. W. Johnson. 

Ginger Bread 

1 cup white sugar, 1 cup N. O. molasses, 1 cup short- 
ening, 1 cup sour milk (or cream), 4 cups flour, 2 tsp. 
soda, 2 tsp. ginger, 1 tsp. salt. Bake 30 minutes. 

— Mrs. Geo. F. Tyson. 

President McKinley's Favorite Ginger Bread 

1% cups sugar, li/^ cups molasses, % cup lard, 1 cup 
hot water, li/^ tsp. soda, 1 tsp. salt, 2 heaping tsp. gin- 
ger, 1 tsp. ])aking powder. Enough flour to make very 
stiff (about 1 qt.). Just before placing in oven, drop in 

3 eggs, one at a time unbeaten, and beat well into mix- 
ture. Bake slowlj^ 

A large recipe: % for ordinary use. 

, — Mrs. F. A. Pontious. 

71 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Soft Ginger Bread 

% cup sugar, I/2 cup shortening, 1 cup N. 0. molasses, 
21/^ cups flour, 1 tsp. each of cinnamon, cloves, and 
ginger, 2 tsp. soda dissolved in 1 cup boiling water. 
Lastly, 2 well-beaten eggs. 

— ^Mrs. Horace G. Smith. 

Soft Ginger Bread 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, ^2 cup shortening, 1 
cup sour milk, 1 tbsp. ground ginger, y^ tbsp. cinnamon, 
2 eggs, 2 tsp. soda. — Mrs. A. S. Roome. 

Soft Ginger Bread 

Break 1 egg in a cup and fill with molasses. Add % 
cup melted butter, 1 tsp. soda dissolved in % cup sour 
milk, 1% cups flour, 1 tsp. cinnamon. 

Bake in slow oven. • — Mrs. I. P. Berry. 



72 



Cakes 



78 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



CAKES 



Angel Cake 

. Sdft together 4 times: li/^ cups sugar, 1 cup flour, 
1 tsp. cream of tartar. Stir into this the whites of 11 
eggs thoroughly beaten. Flavor with J^ tsp. rose extract. 
Bake 50 niin. in a slow oven, and do not open oven for 
30 min. Turn pan over rack and let cake remain for 1 
hour. —Mrs. W. B. Miller. 

• 

Angel Cake 

Whites of 12 eggs, li/4 cups granulated sugar, 1 cup 
Swans Down Cake Flour, 1 level ts'p. cream of tartar, 
pinch of salt added to eggs before whipping, 1 tsp. 
vanilla. Sift, measure, and set aside sugar and flour ; 
whip eggs to foam, add cream of tartar, and whip until 
very stiff. Fold in sugar and add vanilla, then fold in 
flour lightly. Bake in moderate oven 35 min. 

— Feme Leaf Olsen. 



Angel Cake 

Whites of 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup boiling milk, 
2 tsp. baking powder, 1 cup| flour, 1 tbsp. cornstarch. 
Sift sugar, flour, cornstarch, and baking powder 
together. Beat eggs ia. a foam and fold in gradually. 
Bake in a moderate d^ejf. 

— Mrs:**E%ma Munshaw, Lansing, Mich. 

75 



Healthful 

Reliable 

Economical 



(^ 






When a recipe 
says '* baking powder 
it means 

ROIAL 

BAKING 
POWDER 



m 



^.^:^i 






Absolutely Pure 

Made from Cream of Tartar, \ 
derived from grapes. ^ 



.->- 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Prize Winning Angel Food Cake 
Whites of 10 large or 11 small eggs, 1% cups granu- 
lated sugar, 1 cup sifted flour, 1 level tsp. cream of 
tartar, pinch of salt, 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Whip eggs to a froth, add salt, cream of tartar and 
vanilla. Continue whipping until froth is stiff, then 
add sugar gradually. Fold in flour and bake in very 
slow oven 40 to 50 minutes. — Mrs. J. H. Taft. 

Angel Food Cake 
Whites of 11 eggs, pinch of salt, l^ level tsp. cream 
of tartar, I/2 tsp. vanilla, 1^/4 cups sugar, 1 cup pastry 
flour sifted 6 or 8 times. Beat whites to a foam. Add 
salt and cream of tartar and beat until you can turn 
bowl upside down. Then add vanilla and fold in gradu- 
ally the well-sifted sugar and flour. Bake slowly for 
first 30 min. and turn up gas a little higher for last 15 
min. Use ungreased pan. Flavor icing with almond 
extract. — Mrs. Hunter Nethery. 

AUgel Food Cake 

11/4 cups egg-whites, 1 tsp. cream of tartar, II/2 cups 
fine granulated sugar (sifted), 1 cup Swansdown flour, 
sifted once, measured and sifted 4 times, i^ tsp. salt, 1 
tsp. extract. 

Pour the egg whites on a large platter, add salt and 
beat with flat egg-beater until foamy. Add cream of 
tartar and continue beating until the eggs are stiff but 
not dry. Fold in the sugar, 1 tbsp. at a time. Add 
flavoring. Fold in the flour in the same manner as 
the sugar. Pour into an ungreased patent tin and bake 
in a slow oven 50 to 60 minutes, increasing heat slightly 
when cake is almost done. — Mrs. C. A. Bottorff. 

77 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Apple Cake 
1% cups flour, 2 t^. baking powder, 1 tbsp. sugar, 
pinch of salt, 2 tbsp. butter, milk to make a stiff batter. 
Place in pie tin and cover top with thick slices of apple. 
Cover with % cup sugar, a little cinnamon and small 
bits of butter. Bake in a moderate oven 20 to 30 min- 
utes. —Mrs. Elizabeth Harvey. 

Apple Cake 
14 <?up butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 eg^, 1^2 cups flour, 
scant tsp. baking powder, 1 tbsp. warm water, 14 cup 
chopped nuts, % cup ground raisins, 1 cup chopped 
apple. 

Bake in square tin. Put whipped cream on top and 
a cherry. Serves 8 people. 

— ^^Irs. Don Crawford. 

Apple Sauce Cake 
1 large cup unsweetened apple sauce, 1 cup brown 
sugar, 1^ cup lard or Crisco, yolk of 1 q^^, 1 tsp. cinna- 
mon, 1 tsp. allspice, 2 cups flour, sifted with 2 tsp. bak- 
ing powder, 1 tsp. soda dissolved in warm water and put 
in the apple sauce. Bake in slow oven. 

— Mrs. Edwin Price. 

Apple Sauce Cake 
l/cup butter, 1^/^ cups brown sugar, 1 cup un- 
sweetened apple sauce, 1 tsp. each of cinnamon and nut- 
nicg, 1/^ tsp. cloves, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup nuts, 2 cups 
flour, 1 tsp. soda dissolved in hot water. Bake in loaf, 
40 minutes. — ^Mrs. E. R. Pulliam. 

78 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Apple or Peach Cake 

1 cup sugar, 2 tbsp. butter, 3 eggs, % cups milk (or 
% cup water), 4 cups flour sifted with 3% tsp. baking 
powder, 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, then eggs beaten 
light, flour and milk alternately and extract. Beat 
thoroughly. 

Pour into 4 cake pans, placing sliced apples or halved 
peaches on top. Sprinkle the apples with sugar and 
cinnamon, and the peaches with sugar. 

— Mrs. Lorenzen. 



Banana Cake 

% cup brown sugar, % cup w^hite sugar, % cup 
shortening, 2 eggs, 4 tbsp. sweet milk, 1 cup banana 
pulp, 11/2 tsp. soda, 1 cup chopped nut meats, flour. 

Cream shortening. Add sugar and eggs well-beaten, 
then the milk and banana pulp. Mix and sift soda with 
a little flour. 

Add to first mixture and continue adding sifted flour 
until a medium batter is obtained. Bake in moderate 
oven until brown or about 35 minutes. 

— Mrs. G. W. Heavener. 



Banana Cake 

11/2 cvLips sugar, pinch of salt, 3 tbsp. shortening, 1 
cup mashed bananas, 2 eggs, 5 tbsp. sour milk in which 
1 tsp. soda has been dissolved, II/2 cups flour. 

— Mrs. Bliss Langill. 

79 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Blueberry Cake 

1/^ cup sugar, i/4 cup butter, 1 egg, 1/2 cup milk, 1% 
cups flour, 1 tsp. baking powder, i/^ pt. blueberries. 

—Mrs. I. P. Berrv. 



Blueberry Cake 

11/4 cups sugar, iy4 cup butter, 2 eggs beaten 
separately, ll^ cups milk, flour enough to make a stiff 
batter, 3 tsp. baking powder, 2 cups blueberries. Serve 
hot wdth butter. — ^Mrs. A. A. Kendall. 

Buttermilk Cake 

iy2 cups buttermilk, II/2 cups brown sugar, % cup 
butter, 1 cup chopped raisins, 1 cup currants, 1 cup Eng- 
lish walnuts cut fine, 3% cups flour, 2 tsp. baking 
soda, % tsp. cloves, % tsp. cinnamon. Bake in loaf. 

— ^Miss Eleanor L. Bryant. 

Burnt Sugar Cake 

iy2 cups sugar, 1^ cup butter, beaten yolks of 3 eggs, 
1% cups flour. Beat 5 minutes, add 4 tsp. burnt sugar, 
2 tsp. baking powder, 1 cup flour, vanilla, and the 
whites of 3 eggs folded in slowly. Bake in either layer 
or loaf. Cover with boiled white icing. / C^aJL M/*lMy\ >VTtu)u 

To Make Burnt Sugar 
Burn 1^ cup sugar, and then dissolve with i/4 cup 
^at^r- —Mrs. C. J. Preston. 

80 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Chocolate Layer Cake 

1 cup lard (or butter) creamed with 1 cup sugar, 2 
eggs Avell-lx^aten, 1 tsp. soda in % cup thick sour milk, 
11^ heaping cups flour, with l^ tsp. baking powder, 1% 
squares chocolate dissolved in % cup hot water. 

Bake in layers 20 minutes in moderate oven. 

Cover Avith chocolate or white frosting. 

— Mrs. L. Shellberg. 



Chocolate Cake 

% cup brown sugar (or white), % cup sweet milk, 
% cup grated chocolate or 2 heaping tbsp. cocoa. 
Boil and when tepid, add to the following: 
1 cup sugar, y^ cup butter, 2 eggs, % cup milk (sweet 
or sour), 1 tsp. soda sifted in 2 cups flour, 1 tsp. 
vanilla. — Mrs. Liiella King. 



Chocolate Nut Cake 

Melt 4 squares of Baker's chocolate and add % cup 
brown sugar, 1 cup milk, 1 ^^^'^ yolk, well beaten. Cook 
until smooth. Cream % cup butter with 1 cup broAvn 
sugar, 2 egg yolks (well-beaten), pinch of salt and flavor- 
ing, % cup sour milk in which 1 tsp. soda has been dis- 
solved, 2 cups flour Avith 1 tsp. baking powder, ^/^ cup 
chopped nuts. To this add the chocolate mixture and 
fold in the Avell-beaten whites of the 3 eggs. Bake in 
flat pan 35 min. — Mrs. W. Mung. 

81 



Repairing of All Kinds of Heating Apparatus 
A Specialty 

LECHNER HEATING CO. 

Heating and Sheet Metal Work 

1716 ASHLAND A\T5NUE 

Phone 1814 EVANSTON, ILL. 

Phone 4676 

W. H. BLACKER 

MASON CONTRACTOR 
AND CEMENT WORK 

Chimney and Mantle Work a Specialty 

1206 MONROE STREET 
EVANSTON, ILL. 

WEISE BROTHERS 

Manufacturers of 

SASH DOORS FRAMES 
INTERIOR FINISH AND STAIRS 

1124-1132 DODGE AVENUE 

Telephone 697 EVANSTON, ILL. 

Come to Evanstoii's most exclusive Hotel for sei^vice 
unexcelled both in rooms and cafe. 

EVANSTON HOTEL 

Cor. MAIN STREET and FOREST AVENUE 

Tel. E. 5000 L. H. FIELD, Mgr. 



82 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Chocolate Fudge Cake 

1 cup sugar, i/^ cup butter, a little salt, 2 tbsp. cocoa, 
1 level tsp. soda dissolved in % cup sour milk, % tsp. 
baking powder sifted in 1% cup flour. 

After mixing well, add i/4 cup hot water (more if 
necessary to make dough very thin). Bake in shallow 
pan. When cold, split and fill with the following: 

Filling : 1 cup sugar, 1 tbsp. cocoa, 1 cup hot water, 
large piece of butter and a pinch of salt. 

Boil and thicken with 1 heaping tbsp. cornstarch dis- 
solved in a little cold water, 1 tsp. vanilla. 

— Mrs. L. Harvey. 

Chocolate Caramel Cake 

Part 1 — 1/^ cake Baker's chocolate shaved fine, 1 cup 
sugar, 1/^ cup sweet milk, yolk of 1 egg. 

Boil until it thickens and cool. 
Part 2 — 1 cup sugar, ^/^ cup butter (scant), 2 eggs, 
1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 tsp. baking powder, 2 tsp. 
vanilla. 

Before adding flour, stir in the cooked chocolate. 

Eggless Chjocolate Cake 

1/2 cup butter (or shortening), 1 cup sugar, 1 cup 
sour milk, 1 tsp. soda, ^4 tsp. salt, 2 cups flour, 2 tbsp. 
cocoa, 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Cream butter and sugar. Sift salt, soda and cocoa 
with flour, add to mixture alternately with sour milk. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

— ^Mrs. W. V. Turner. 
83 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Cocoa Cake 

1 egg, 1 cup sugar, % cup melted butter, 1 cup sour 
milk in which % tsp. soda has been dissolved, li/^ cups 
flour sifted with 2 tbsp. cocoa and % tsp. baking powder, 
1 tsp. vanilla. 

Beat egg until light, add sugar and beat again. Then 
add melted butter, milk, flour and flavoring. 

— ^Mrs. S. I. Koogle. 

Cocoa Cake With Marshmallow Filling 

1 cup sugar, 3 tbsp. melted butter, 1 egg, 1 cup sour 
milk in which % tsp. soda has been dissolved, li/^ cups 
flour sifted with i^ tsp. baking powder and 2 tbsp. 
cocoa, pinch cinnamon, 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Cream sugar and butter, add egg, milk and flour. 
Bake 15 minutes. 

Filling 

Boil 1 cup water, 1 cup brown sugar and 1 cup white 
sugar until it threads. Pour into beaten whites of 2 
eggs stirring constantly. Add i/4 1^^- marshmallows and 
boil a few" minutes. Cool before spreading over cake. 

— Mrs. W. A. Brodkorb. 

Cocoa Cake 

1 tbsp. butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 14 cup sour cream, 
1 tsp. soda, 1 tbsp. cocoa dissolved in hot water, 1 tsp. 
vanilla, 1 large cup flour, I/2 cup boiling water, added 
last. — Mrs. H. R. Putnam. 

84 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Cake Without Eggs or Butter 

Boil for 20 minutes the following: 2 cups water, 1 
tbsp. lard, % tsp. salt, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup currants, 1 
tsp. each of nutmeg, cinnamon and allspice. Let cool 
and add 3 cups of flour. Dissolve 1 tsp. baking powder 
in 2 tsp. lukewarm water and add, stirring well. Bake 
for 1 hour or more in slow oven. 

— ^Mrs. Thomas Savage. 

Cream Cake 

3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 3 tbsp. water, li/^ cups flour, 2 
tsp. baking powder. Bake in jelly cake pans. 

CRP]AM: 1 pt. milk, 1 egg, li/^ tbsp. cornstarch, 2 
tbsp. sugar. Add chocolate to cream if desired. 

— ^Mrs. Hu Maxwell. 

Cherry Cake 

11/4 cups sugar, % cup butter, 1 tsp. soda dissolved 
in 1 cup sour milk, yolks of 3 eggs, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 2 
cups flour, 1 cup of canned cherries (drained). 

— Mrs. I. P. Berry. 

Crumb Cake 

2 cups flour, 11/^ cups sugar, 3^ cup butter. Crumb 
together as for biscuits. Take out % cup to cover top 
of cake when readj' for the oven. To remainder add 2 
tsp. baking powder, 2 eggs well -beaten, % cup sweet 
milk. This cake requires no icing. 

— Mrs. C. M. Munson. 
85 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Canada War Cake 

2 cups broAVii sugar, 2 cups hot water, 2 tsp. lard, 
1 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. cloves, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 1 pkge. raisins. 

Boil all for 5 minutes. When cool, add 1 tsp. soda 
dissolved in hot water, and 3 cups flour. Bake in 2 
loaves — 45 minutes. — Mrs. Bliss Langill. 

Date Cake 

To 1 pkg. of dates ,(^ut in pieces), add 1 cup of hot 
water, with one tsp. soda, and let cool. Cream 1 cup 
sugar, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 egg. Add date mixture to 
cream mixture and 1% cups of flour with 1 tsp. baking 
powder, then 1 cup nuts, salt and vanilla. 

Ice with the following: Boil 2 tbsp. cream with 1 
tbsp. butter, and thicken while hot with pulverized 
sugar. — Mrs. 0. C. Carnright. 

Date Cake 

1 box dates, seeded, 1 cup boiling water, 1 tsp. soda, 
heaping. Cut the seeded dates in pieces. Mix the boiling 
water with the soda and pour over the dates; let stand 
until the second part is ready. Second part: 1 cup 
sugar, 1 tbsp. butter, large, % cup nut meats, 1 tsp. 
baking powder, 1 egg, vanilla, 2 cups flour. 

Cream sugar, eggs, and butter ; then pour in the f ii*st 
part, also the nut meats, flour, vanilla and baking 
powder. Bake slowly. Cut in squares. Serve with a 
spoon of whipped cream and a cherry on top or cut in 
strips and roll in powdered sugar. 

— Mrs. Leslie Stewart. 
86 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Date Cake 

1 pkg. dates, 2 tbsp. butter, 1 tsp. soda. Pour 1 cup 
boiling water over this and let cool. Then add, 1 pinch 
salt, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs (well-beaten), 2 cups flour, lA 
cup nut meats. 

Bake in slow oven in layers or loaf. 

— ^Mrs. A. Wagner. 



Date and Nut Cake 

Mix : 1 cup sugar, 2 tbsp. butter, 1 egg, pinch of salt. 
Cut in small pieces, 1 pkg. dates and add 1 cup boiling 
water and 1 tsp. soda. Let cool and add to butter mix- 
ture. Then add 1% cups of flour, 1 cup chopped walnut 
meats and % tsp. vanilla. 

Bake 30 minutes in 2 layers or sheet cake. Use 
chocolate filling. Cut into squares and top with whipped 
cream. — ^Mrs. Rohland Petterson. 



Date alid Nut Cake 

Cut one package of dates in small pieces; add one 
cup hot water and 1 tsp. baking soda. Let stand until 
luke-warm. 

Cream 1 cup sugar and 1 tbsp. butter and add 1 egg. 
Then add dates and water, li/^ cups flour and 1 tsp. 
baking powder. 

4.dd % cup chopped nuts. 

- —Mrs. R. Seefurth. 
87 



YOU will always find what you are looking for 
at SCHIMBEKG'S at the right price. 

SCHIMBEBG'S 

521 MAIN STREET 

Tel. 1246 

DRY GOODS and LADIES READY TO WEAR 

S. P. GERDL 

GROCERIES — MEATS 

511-13 MAIN STREET 922 DAVIS STREET 

Phone 6774 Phone 1917 

1908 CENTRAL — Phone 3750 
Food Products of Quality 



N. K. WELTER 

FLORIST 

523 MAIN STREET 

Phone 879 EVANSTON, JUL. 

Members of F. T. D. Service 

J. A. RUST Established 1873 J. E. RUST 

Swezey Dumb Waiter Co, 

(Not Inc.) 

Manufacturers of 

SWEZEY'S IMPROVED DUMB WAITER 

for Hospitals, Restaurants and Dwellings 

6611 WENTAVORTH AVENUE 

Telephone: Englewood 4336 CHICAGO 



88 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Devil's Food Cake 

2 cups granulated sugar, 4 eggs, 2 squares Baker's 
chocolate (grated), 3 tsp. baking powder, 2 cups floui', 
% cup Crisco, 1 cup hot mashed potatoes, I/2 tsp. cinna- 
mon, y^. cup milk, 1 cup nut meats. 

Cream together sugar and Crisco. Add the beaten 
yolks of the eggs. Stir in the mashed potatoes, grated 
chocolate and nut meats. Sift together the flour, nut- 
meg and cinnamon and stir in alternately with the milk. 
Beat thoroughly and fold in the beaten whites of eggs. 
Makes a large cake. — Mrs. Emil Nelson. 

Devil's Food Cake 

1 cup sugar, 2 tbsp. shortening, 2 eggs, y^. cup milk, 
(sweet or sour), 4 tsp. cocoa, i/^ cup boiling water, li/^ 
cups flour, 1 tsp. soda, % tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. 
vanilla. 

Cream the butter and the sugar, add eggs and milk, 
in which soda has been dissolved. Add the baking 
powder to the flour and mix. 

Dissolve cocoa in boiling water and add to the above 
mixture. Flavor with vanilla. Bake in layers or flat 
pan. Top with boiled icing. 

— ^Mrs. Hunter Nethery. 

Devil's Food Cake 

1 cup sugar and 2 tbsp. butter (creamed well), 1 ^%%, 
(beaten very light), 2 tbsp. cocoa, 1 cup sour milk in 
which 1 tsp. soda has been dissolved, li/^ cups flour 
sifted with 1 tsp. Royal Baking Powder, 1 tsp. vanilla. 
Beat thoroughly and bake in 2 layers. 

— ^Mrs. Cyrus Good. * 
89 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Economical Devil's Food Cake 
Break 1 egg into dish, add 1 cup sugar, 1 tbsp. butter, 
2 tbsp. cocoa, 1 tsp. soda, i/4 tsp. salt and stir well. Then 
add 1 cup sour milk, II/2 cups flour and flavor with 
vanilla. 

Icing 

1 egg, 1 cup sugar, 1 tbsp. cocoa, I/2 tbsp. butter, i/^ 
cup milk. 

Cook until thick, stirring constantly. Beat until cool 
and spread over cake. — Mrs. Gr. C. Pierce. 

Devil's Food Cake 

1 cup sugar, 1 tbsp. butter, 2 eggs, i/^ cup sour milk, 
1 tsp. soda (in milk), II/2 cups flour, 1 square chocolate 
(melted) . 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs and cream 
again. Stir in the milk and flour alternately. Add the 
chocolate, pour into buttered pans and bake in moderate 
oven. 

FILLING : — 1 cup raisins, chopped fine, 1 small cup 
sugar, 1/2 cup water. Cook until thick. Then add % 
cup walnuts (chopped fine) . Spread between layers and 
top with powd. sugar and butter icing. 

— ^INIrs. Bliss Langill. 

Poor Man's Devil's Food Cake 
1 egg, 1 cup light brown sugar, 1 heaping tbsp. butter, 
salt, 1 cup sour milk, in which 1 level tsp. soda has been 
dissolved, 2 cups flour sifted Avith 2 tsp. baking powder, 
% cake Baker's bitter chocolate cooked until thick in a 
little water. 

Cream butter and sugar, and well-beaten eggs, milk, 
flour and chocolate. — Mrs. G. C. Carnright. 

90 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

An Eggless, Butterless, Devil's Food Cake 

Cream l^/^ cups of brown sugar and I/2 cup of lard. 
Add Yo cup of grated chocolate, dissolved in y^ cup of 
boiling water, and 1 tsp. of soda in i/^ cup of sour milk. 

Sift together 1% cups of flour, % cup of corn- 
starch, 14 tsp. each of cinnamon and cloves. Add to 
creamed mixture and bake. 

— ^Mrs. C. A. IGein. 



First Cake 

(Named because it is a good recipe to t\;ach a child. 
It does not fail.) 

1 cup sugar, 1 tbsp. lard (rounded), 1 egg and 1 
yolk, 1 cup milk, 2 rounded tbsp. cocoa, 1 tsp. soda, 1 
rounded cup of flour, vanilla and salt. 



White Icing 

]/s cup sugar, 3 tbsp. cold water, 1 unbeaten egg 
white. 

Mix, put into a double boiler over boiling water and 
beat for 7 minutes with a dover beater. Take from fire 
and beat until thick. — Mrs. J. C. Murley. 



Favorite Cake 

(A cake baked after this recipe won a price of $1,000.) 
V2 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 eggs, 1 cup milk, 2 
tsp. cocoa, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 2i/^ cups flour sifted with 
2 tsp. baking poAvder. — Mrs. V. A. Beckman. 

91 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Feather Cake 

3 eggs well-beaten, add 1 cup sugar and beat again. 
Sift 1 cup flour with 1 tsp. baking powder and add a 
little at a time. Heat % cup milk and 1 tsp, butter to 
boiling point and add hot to other mixture. Bake in 
ungreased pan 20 minutes. Have oven very hot at first. 

— Miss Mattie Nelson. 

Pniit Cake 

11/2 cups sugar, % cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup sour 
milk, 1 tsp. soda, 2 cups flour, spices and fruit. 

— ^Alrs. I. P. Berry. 

Fruit Cake 
Cream 1 cup butter, add 2 cups sugar, then 4 eggs 
beaten light, 1 level tsp. soda dissolved in 1 cup sour 
milk. Sift 3 cups flour, 1 tsp. each of cloves, cinnamon, 
and nutmeg, 1 cup each of raisins, currants, dates, 
and figs, 14 cup citron. Soak raisins in hot water over 
night. Beat all well and bake 1 hour. 

— Mrs. Woodruff. 

Pudge Mocha Cake 

y<2. ctip milk, 2 eggs, 3 tbsp. cocoa, 1 cup sugar, 3 
tbsp. butter or substitute, 1 tsp. vanilla, li/^ cups pastry 
flour, 11/^ tsp. baking powder, % cup milk, additional. 

Scald 1/^ cup milk and pour it over the beaten ^^^ 
yolks. Cook in double boiler until mixture thickens like 
custard. Add sugar and butter, stir thoroughly, add 
vanilla, flour and baking powder, then the additional 
milk. Fold in the stiffly-beaten egg whites. Bake in 
moderate oven about 40 minutes, frost with mocha frost- 
ing, sprinkle with finely-chopped nut meats. 

92 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK ^pOK 

Graham Cracker Cake 

11/^ cups sugar, 21/2 tbsp. butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup graham 
cracker crumbs, 1 cup sweet milk, II/2 cups flour, 3 tsp. 
baking powder. Gream butter and sugar, add eggs well- 
beaten, then cracker crumbs and milk. Sift baking 
powder in flour, and mix all together. Bake in layers. 

FUELING: 3 tbsp. sugar, 11/2 tbsp. flour, a little 
salt, 1 egg well-beaten, 1 cup milk, 1 tbsp. butter. Mix 
all together and cook in double boiler until creamed. 

—Mrs. U. a. Buck. 



Grraham Cracker Cake 

V2 cup butter, 3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, % cup milk, 20 
Graham crackers (rolled fine), 1 tsp. baking powder. 

Cream butter and sugar, add well-beaten yolks, then 
Graham crackers sifted with baking powder. Fold in 
the well-beaten whites. Use whipped cream for filling. 

— ^Mrs. A. G. Aeppli. 

Grandmother's English Plum Cake 

Beat % lb. butter to a cream. Add gradually 1 lb. 
granulated sugar and when very light, add 4 eggs well 
beaten. Dissolve 1 tsp. soda in 2 tbsp. warm water ; add 
to this 1 cup molasses. Mix all together. Stir in y^ 
pint lukewarm strong black coffee, 3 cups flour, 1 tsp. 
allspice, ^/4 tsp. cloves, 2 tsp. cinnamon and 1 nutmeg 
(grated). Beat thoroughly and add the following fruit, 
chopped and floured : 2 lbs. raisins, 1 lb. currants, 14 lb. 
citron. Bake 2I/2 hours in fruit cake pan which has been 
lined with wax paper. 

— ^]Mrs. Thomas Savage. 
93 



Telephone 503 Superintendent's 

Residence Phone 2424 Residence Phone 22 95 

M. L. O'MALIA 

PLt^reiNG AND HEATING CONTRACTOR 

924 CHICAGO AVENUE EVANSTON, ILL. 

Telephone 957 

HENRY HULTEEN 

CONTRACTOR AND BUILDER 

1120 ELMWOOD AVENUE 
Evanston, 111. 

Established March 4, 1896 

GEORGE H. GRAIN 

REAL ESTATE 

Telephone 637 Res. Telephone 799 

716 MAIN STREET EVANSTON, ILL. 

PHONE EVANSTON 673 

FOR 

YOUR DRUG WANTS 

WASHINGTON PHARMACY 

Quality aiid Service — Pi"onipt Delivei^ 

C. H. ANDERSON, Prop. 

701 WASHINGTON ST. EVANSTON, DLL. 

Telephones Evanston 673 and 674 

' 94 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Huckleberry Cake 
Beat 1 cup butter and 2 cups sugar together until 
light. Then add % cup milk, 4 eggs beaten separately, 
1 tsp. each of nutmeg and cinnamon, 2 tsp. baking 
powder sifted into the flour. Mix 1 qt. huckleberries 
with some flour, and add last; be careful not to mash 
them. Pour into buttered pan 1 inch thick; dust with 
sugai* and bake. It is better the day after baking. 

—Mrs. M. C. Collins. 

Ice Box Cake 

1 medium sponge cake, or 2 dozen lady fingers, 1% 
cakes sweet chocolate, 3 tbsp. sugar, 3 tbsp. water, 4 egg 
yolks, 4 egg whites, 1 tsp. vanilla, ^ pint whipping 
cream. 

Cut cake in strips if sponge cake is used and line 
bottom and sides of deep pan, first lining with wax 
paper. Melt the chocolate in double boiler, add sugar, 
water and beaten egg yolks. Cook until smooth, stirring 
constantly. When cool, add the well-beaten egg whites. 
Pour one half of thif^ filling over the pieces of sponge 
cake. Add another layer of cake, pour over it rest of 
chocolate filling and cover with more sponge cake. Place 
in ice box for 12 hours or more. When ready to serve, 
turn out on plate and cover with whipped cream, 
sweetened with 14 ^^P powdered sugar and 1^ tsp. 
vanilla. — Mrs. W. F. Struebing. 

Ice Box Cake 

1 dozen Lady Fingers or Sponge Cake, 2 cakes of 
German Sweet Chocolate (large size), 4 eggs, 3 tbsp. 
powd. sugar, 2 tbsp. hot water, 1 tsp. vanilla. Melt 

95 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

chocolate, add water and sugar, and the beaten yolks of 
eggs, fold in the beaten whites. Line a pan with wax 
paper and place a layer of Lady Fingers, then chocolate 
mixture ; add another layer of Lady Fingers, again cover- 
ing with chocolate. Set in ice box 24 hrs. and when 
ready to serve turn out of pan and slice. 

— Mre. Ella Scovill. 



Ice Box Cake 

3 doz. lady fingers, % lb. unsalted butter, 1 cup 
sugar, 2 eggs, 1 lemon, % pint whipped cream. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs, and cream 
again. Then add the juice and grated rind of the lemon, 
and cream altogether. Place a layer of lady fingers in 
a square pan or dish, spread with the filling, then 
another layer and cover with filling. Set in ice box at 
least 24 hours. Serve with whipped cream. 

— Mi^. C. A. Klein. 



Ice Box Cake 

4 doz. Lady Fingei-s, 1 lb. German Sweet Chocolate, 
y^, cup sugar, 4 eggs, 15 tbsp. water. 

Place the chocolate and water in double boiler until 
melted. Pour over the beaten egg yolks, (into which the 
sugar has been mixed) and fold in the beaten whites. 
Beat quickly — return to double boiler and allow to 
thicken. Butter the pan, put in layer of Lady Fingers, 
then the custard, and so on until iLsed. Serve with 
whipped cream. Serves 12. — ^ta. M. Smurr. 

96 



NEiaHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Jam Cake 

1 cup sugar, % cup butter, 2 tsp. cocoa, % tsp. 
nutmeg, 2 cups flour, 1 cup of any jam, 5 eggs well- 
beaten, 1 tsp. soda dissolved in 3 tbsp. sour milk. 

Good way to use up left-over jam. 

— Mrs. Margie Moore. 

Joe Cake 
Cream thoroughly 1 cup butter with 2 cups sugar. 
Add 4 well-beaten eggs, 1 tsp. flavoring, li/^ cups milk, 
5 cups flour, 4 tsp. baking powder, sifted with flour 3 
times. This makes a very large cake. 

— Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

Kiss Cake 

Beat the whites of 6 eggs to a froth and add slowly 
1 cup granulated sugar. Beat 15 minutes and add 1 
tbsp. vinegar, a pinch of cream of tartar and beat 15 
minutes more. Put in buttered angel cake pan and bake 
50 minutes in slow oven. Great care must be taken that 
oven is not too hot. 

When cold, fill center with 1 cup fresh strawberries 
or peaches, cover with whipped cream and serve. Will 
serve 8 people. —Mrs. M. V. Smurr. 

Lady Baltimore Cake 

1 cup sugar, i/4 cup butter, % cup cold water, 2 cups 
flour, 2 tsp. baking powder, 14 tsp. vanilla, 3 whites of 
eggs. 

Cream butter and sugar, beat in alternately, the 
water and flour sifted with baking powder. Fold in the 
well-beaten whites. 

97 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Filling 
1/^ cup sugar, y^ cup water, 1 cup nut meats, % lb. 
^^^^, V2 cup raisins. Heat in double boiler until thick. 

Icing 
Boil until it threads, % cup sugar and % cup water. 
Pour slowly over the well-})eaten white of 1 egg. Flavor 
with vanilla. — Mi's. Gr. F. Falley. 

Maxble Cake 

White part: 14 cup butter, % cup sugar, % cup 
sweet milk, 1 cup flour, whites of 2 eggs, 1 tsp. baking 
powder. 

Dark part: % cup butter, 14 cup sugar, ^ cup 
molasses, 14 cup sweet milk, ll^ cups flour, yolks of 2 
eggs, 1 large tsp. baking powder, % tsp. each of cloves, 
cinnamon and nutmeg. Mix 2 parts separately, beat 
until very light, place in baking pan a spoonful at a 
time, having the light and dark alternate. This cake will 
keep a long time. — Mrs. J. C. Carter. 

Molasses Sponge Cake 

% cup sugar, % cup molasses, 1 egg, % cup part 
lard and part butter, 1 level tsp. soda disvsolved in 2 
tsp. water, 1 large tsp. cinnamon, 1 large tsp. ginger, 2 
cups, flour, % cup boiling water. 

Beat sugar and shortening. Add egg, then other 
ingredients, and lastly add i/^ cup boiling water. Sei-ve 
hot with whipped cream or hot sauce, or, split and fill 
with marshmallows. Return to oven to melt marshmal- 
lows, then use whipped cream on top. 

— ^Mrs. McPherrin. 

98 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Neverfail Chocolate Cake 
2 squares chocolate, 2 level tbsp. oil or fat. Place 
together and dissolve over steam. Beat 1 egg, add 1 cup 
sugar, and blend well. Then li/^ cups flour, i/4 tsp. salt, 
1 tsp. vanilla. Add 1 cup sweet milk, with 1 tsp. soda 
dissolved in it. Fold in the dissolved chocolate and bake 
in a moderate oven. — Mrs. H. G. Conger. 

Norwegian Sand Cake 
% lb. butter beaten until white, 1/2 1^- sugar, 3 whole 
eggs and 2 whites, grated peel of % lemon, % lb. potato 
flour, vanilla. Bake in good warm oven 1% hour. 

— Mrs. W. E. Foster. 

Nut Cakes 

1 egg, 1 cup brown sugar, pinch of salt, 14 tsp. soda, 
5 level tbsp. flour, 1 cup black walnuts, butternuts, or 
any other good nut meats. 

Mix in order given, sifting soda with flour. Bake 
20 minutes in slow oven. — ^Mrs. J. H. Taft. 

One Egg Cake 

Sift together 3 times, 2 cups flour, 2 tsp. baking 
powder, 1 cup sugar and a pinch of salt. Add: 1 cup 
milk, 1 egg, 2 tbsp. shortening and flavoring. 

— ^Mrs. D. L. Miller. 

Orange Cake 

Cream i/^ cup butter, 1 cup sugar; add yolks of 2 
eggs (beaten), 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 heaping- tsp. 
baking powder, vanilla. 

99 



Phone 2132 

ROYAL DRY GOODS STORE 

718 MAIN STREET 

Our goods are carefully bought, the prices carefully 
adjusted and your every want carefully anticipated and 
cared for. 

You therefore are assured of getting the best 
quality and the fullest measure of satisfaction. 
Phones 1967 and 2886. 

GENERAL CORDS GOODRICH SOLIDS 

^VULCANIZING — 

LEONARD E. STARKEL 

TIRE ENGINEER 
QUALITY TIRE SHOP, 1942 Asbury Avenue 

Corner West Railroad 
Phone Evanston 6272 EVANSTON, ILL. 

LANDSCAPE SERVICE 

SOIL — CLAY — COMPOST — MANURE 

Tree trimming, spraying and cavity work 

Full line of Perennials, trees, shrubs and evergreelis 

Imp. Novelty Roses Specialty Trial Grounds 

JACOB KRAMER 

1008 SHi]RMAN AATiJ. EVANSTON, ILL. 

Phone Diversey 2440 
THE 

Nollau & Wolf Mig. Co. 

Manufacturers of 
GENERAL MILLWORK AND INTERIOR FINISH 

Office and Factory 
1705-1719 m.LKKTOX AVE. CHICAGO 



100 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

One-Two-Three-Four Cake 
Cream well 1 cup butter and 2 cups sugar, add 4 
well-beaten eggs, 1 cup milk, 3 cups flour sifted with 
5 tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. flavoring. 

— Mrs. George Knapp. 

Potato Cake 

1/2 cup mashed potatoes, 1 cup sugar, 14 cup butter, 
1 cup flour, 1 square chocolate, 2 eggs, % cup milk, 2 
tsp. baking powder, % cup nuts, % cup raisins. 

Mix butter, sugar and beaten yolks of eggs ; add milk, 
flour, baking powder, raisins, nuts, chocolate, potatoes 
and beaten whites of eggs. Bake % hour in a slow 
oven. This cake may be iced with chocolate or served 
with Avhipped cream. — Mrs. J. F. Flavelle. 

Pork Cake 
1 cup New Orleans molasses, 2 cups granulated sugar, 
11/2 cups strong black coffee, 1 lb. fat salt pork, 1 lb. 
raisins, 1 lb. currants, li/4 lb. citron, 1 heaping tsp. soda, 
1 tbsp. allspice, 1 tbsp. cloves, 1 tbsp. cinnamon, salt. 

Chop the salt pork fine and pour over it the boiling 
coffee. Let cool and add other ingredients. Add flour 
to mix stiff. Nuts and eggs may be add if desired. 

— ^IMrs. Bliss Langill. 

Pork Cake 

1 lb. of fat pork (chopped fine and dissolved in 1 
pt. boiling water), 3 cups browTi sugar, 1 cup molasses, 
1 lb. raisins, 1 lb. currants, 2 tsp. cinnamon, 1 each of 
cloves and soda, 2 tsp. cream of tartar, 2 nutmegs 
(grated), 7 cups of flour. Bake verj^ slowly. 

— Mrs. Edwin Price. 
101 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Prune Cake 

% cup butter, pinch salt, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 2 cups 

flour, 1 cup stewed prunes mashed fine, y^ ^^P Pi'une 

juice, y^ cup sour milk, 1 tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. 

soda in sour milk, % tsp. cinnamon. — ^Mrs. S. I. Koogle. 

Prune Cake 

1 cup sugar, % cup butter, 3 eggs, 1 cup sour milk, 
1 tsp. soda, 1/2 tsp. salt, 2 cups flour, 1 tsp. baking 
powder, 1 heaping cup cooked prunes pitted and put 
through food chopper, 1 cup nut-meats ground. 

Cream sugar and butter. Add 1 ^^^ and yolks of 2 
others, add soda dissolved in sour milk, salt, then baking 
powder and flour sifted together, prunes and nut-meats. 
Mix thoroughly and bake in two layers. — ^Mrs. Orton. 

Prune and Nut Cake 

1 cup sugar, y^ cup butter, 3 eggs, 1 cup sour milk, 
1 tsp. soda, 2 cups flour, 1 t«p. baking powder, 1 cup 
prunes, 1 cup nuts, pinch of salt, vanilla. 

Cream the butter and sugar. Add yolks, of eggs and 
1 well-beaten white. Then, sour milk and soda, salt, 
flour, prunes and nuts (which have been put through the 
food chopper), and vanilla. Add the baking powder 
after other ingredients have been well-beaten. 

—Mrs. G. L. Blunt. ^ 

Prune and Nut Cake 

Cream 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. lard, 2 cups sugar, 1 
tsp. cinnamon. Add 2 eggs, 1 cup sour milk, % cup 
walnut meats, 1 cup prune pulp, 2 cups flour, 1 tsp. 
soda, y^y tsp. salt. 

Soak prunes over night, cook and cool before using. 

102 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Prince of Wales Cake 

1 cup brown or white sugar, I/2 cup shortening, i/o 
cup molasses (scant), 2 eggs, cinnamon, cloves, allspice, 
1 cup sour milk in which 1 tsp. soda has been dissolved, 
2V2 cups flour. Raisins and nuts may be added if 
desired. — Mrs. C. E. Johnson. 

Short Cake 

(To be used with crushed fruit.) 
V2 cup sugar, 1% cups flour, i^ cup cornstarch, 2 
tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. salt, % cup lard, about 1 cup 
milk. 

Sift dry ingredients, add sugar, and press lard into 
them with fork until flaky. Use % of milk first, the 
rest if needed. 

If peaches are used : 12 peaches to 1 cup sugar. 

—Mrs. G. F. Falley. 

Silver Cake 

1% cups sugar, % cup butter, 1 cup milk, 3 cups 
flour, 2 tsp. baking powder, whites of 6 eggs, 1 tsp. 
almond extract. 

Mix in order given and beat thoroughly. 

Icing 

Whites of 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, beaten together until 
stiff. Flavor with almond extract and cover cake while 
hot. —Mrs. C. A. Klein. 

Sponge Cake 

4 eggs well beaten, salt, flavoring, 2 cups sugar, 1 
cup flour with two tsp. baking powder, 1 cup of hot 
water added a little at a time. — Mrs. I. P. Berry. 

103 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Cream Sponge Cake 
Put into a bowl a large cup of flour in which 1 tsp. 
cream of tartar has been sifted, 1 cup fine granulated 
sugar, and a little salt. Then break into a cup 2 eggs. 
Beat 2 min. and fill cup with milk or cream, add to 
sugar and flour mixture, also y^ tsp. soda dissolved in a 
tbsp. of boiling water, and put into bowl while ])ub])ling. 
Beat all together quickly and well. Bake in a hot o\Tn 
in 2 layers about 15 min., turning down heat after 1st 
8 or 9 min. -Use a custard filling sprinkled with grated 
nuts or coeoanut. — Mrs. L. Shellberg. 

Sponge Cake 
4 eggs beaten separately, 1 cup sugar, 4 tbsp. 
cold water, 1 cup flour, 1 tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. 
vanilla. Bake 30 min. in slow oven, in layers or loaf. 

— ^Irs. Hunter Nethery. 

Sponge Cake 
Beat 4 eggs, light, add 2 cups 5ugar, 2 cups flour 
with 2 heaping tsp. baking powder, all sifted together 
thoroughly. A little lemon and % cup boiling water. 
Beat well and bake in moderate oven. 

—Mrs. W. B. Miller. 

Cream Sponge Cake 

Sift together 1^ cups sugar, li^ cups flour, 2 tsp. 
baking powder, pinch of salt. Beat 3 eggs separately 
and beat well. Bake in layers. 

FILLING: 1 cup milk, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 ^^o^ yolk 
well-beaten, 2 tbsp. sugar, 2 tbsp. flour, 1 tsp. vanilla. 
Boil until thick. — Mrs. Sidney Wright. 

104 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Lemon Sponge Cake 

5 eggs, 114 cups sugar and the juice and rind of 1 
lemon, I14 cups pastry flour. Beat the whites of the 
eggs until perfectly dry. Beat the yolks very light and 
gradually beat in the sugar and grated rind and juice of 
the lemon ; cut and fold in remaining whites, and the 
flour. Bake in a Turk's Head pan 50 min. in a moderate 
oven, same as angel food. When cool, cover with boiled 
icing. Vary this cake a little by baking in an open mold 
and filling the center with sliced peaches, pears, or any 
desired fruits. Serve as a dessert with whipped cream 
piled in the center with the fruit and garnished with 
the sliced fruit. Served with whipped cream. A very 
nice dessert served at a luncheon. — Mrs. Will M. Rogers. 



Dark Spice Cake 

114 cups sugar, creamed with ^ cup butter or lard. 
Add 11/2 cup thick sour milk with 1 tsp. soda dissolved 
in it, 2 eggs well-beaten, then 2^/2 cups flour, 1 cup 
raisins, and 1 tsp. each of cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg. 
Bake in moderate oven about 40 min. in 2 loaves or long 
flat pan. — Mrs. L. Shellberg. 



Spice Cake 

% cup brown sugar, V2 cup butter, 1 cup sour milk, 
14 cup molasses, 2 tsp. soda, 1 cup raisins, 1 full pint 
flour. Spice to taste. — Mi*s. D. L. Miller. 

105 




Culinary Equipment 

Our Houseware Department is recognized as an 
important service to the people of Evanston 
and adjoining suburbs. Not only the necessary 
pots and pans are available but China, Glass- 
ware and the most modern, labor-saving kitchen 
utensils are shown in pleasing assortments. 

basement: 

HELPFUL MAGAZINES AVAILABLE 
IN OUR BOOK SHOP AT ALL TIMES 



AMERICAN COOKERY 
GOOD HOUSEKEEPING 



HOUSE BEAUTIFUL 
HOUSE AND GARDEN 



liOOK SHOP — First Floor 



otcU^ 



INCORfORATtO 



luuRtcn n« 



roVNTAIN 3QVARI:  LVAN5T0N 

106 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Spice Cake 

1/2 cup chopped figs, i/^ cup seeded raisins. Pour over 
these 1 cup boiling water in which 1 tsp. soda has been 
dissolved, and let cool. Add 1 cup sugar, % cup butter, 
creamed. Then i/^ cup flour, 1 tsp. baking powder, 4 
egg yolks beaten light, 2 egg whitesi beaten stiff, 1 tsp. 
each of nutmeg and cinnamon, y^. CTip chopped nuts. 
Bake in flat pan. Use white icing. 

— :Mrs. W. A. Brodkorb. 

Spice Cookies 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup shortening, 2 
eggs, 1 tbsp. vinegar, 2 tsp. cinnamon, 1 tsp. ginger, 1 
tsp. soda. 

If a soft cookie is desired, leave out the vinegar. 

— Mrs. A. H. Graves. 

Spice Cake 

% cup- soft Crisco, 11/3 cups brown sugar, 3 eggs 
(save the Avhites of 2 for icing), % cup milk. Sift 
together 2 cups flour, 3 tsp. baking powder, y^. tsp. each 
of cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, and allspice. Add raisins, 
figs, or dates. To be thro^vll together and beaten 3 
min. Use brown sugar icing. — Helen Evans. 

Spice Cake 

% cup butter, 1 cup brown sugar, 2 eggs, 1 tsp. soda 
(dissolved in 1 cup milk), i/^ cup maple syrup, 1 tsp. 
cinnamon, 1 tsp. cloves, 1 tsp. vanilla, ^ tsp. grated 
nutmeg, pinch salt, 2% to 3 cups flour. Mix in the 
order given, adding the spices to the flour. Bake in 
muffin pans. — Mrs. D. J. Bierwert. 

107 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Spice Cake 

1 cup sugar, i/^ cup shortening, 1 egg, 1 cup sour 
milk, 1 tbsp. molasses, 2 cups flour, 1 tsp. soda, ^/^ tsp. 
each of nutmeg, cinnamon, and cloves, 1 cup raisins. 
Mix dry ingredients and stir into the beaten egg, milk, 
molasses and melted shortening. Add raisins. Bake in 
medium oven. Suitable for cup cakes. 

— Miss Mabel Gardiner. 



Spice Cake 

2 cups sugar, % cup butter, creamed. 3 eggs well 
beaten. 1 cup raisins and i/^ cup nuts mixed with flour 
to prevent settling to bottom of cake. 2 tsp. each of 
nutmeg and cinnamon and 1 tsp. ground cloves. Stir 1 
tsp. soda into % cup sour milk. Mix all together with 2 
cups flour. Bake in round cake pan, slowly, for 1 hour. 

, —Mrs. G. A. Nichols. 

Southern Spice Cake 

1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 6 eggs, % cup buttermilk, 
2 tsp. soda dissolved in milk, 1 tbsp. each of cinnamon, 
nutmeg, and cloves, 1 lb. raisins, 1 cup nuts, citron and 
pear presei-A^es (cut fine), 4 cups flour. This makes a 
large cake. — Mi-s. Lew Merrell. 



Spice Cake 



Spice Cake 

1 cup sugar, % cup butter, 1 egg, 1 cup sour milk, 
1/2 tsp. soda, 2 cups flour, 1 tsp. baking powder, raisins 
and spices. —Mrs. S. A.' Low. 



— ^Mrs. S. A. Low. 

108 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Sour Cream Cake 

Break 1 egg into a cup, fill with, sour cream, and 
add to 1 cup of sugar; beat well. Then add II/2 cups 
flour sifted with 1 tsp. baking powder and % tsp. soda. 
Flavoring to taste. 

Frosting 

1 cup xxxx sugar, 3 tbsp. melted butter. Cream to 
spread easily. Flavoring — a tsp. of cocoa may be added 
if desired. — Mrs. Sadie Belnap. 

Sour Cream Ginger Bread 

Sift 2 cups flour with -^ tsp. soda, 1 tbsp. ginger, 2 
tsp. cinnamon and 1/2 tsp. salt; beat 1 egg, and I/2 cup 
sugar, % cup sour cream, I/2 cup molasses. Mix well. 
Put in buttered pan and bake i/^ hour. 

— Mrs. J. A. Johnson. 

Sunshine Cake 

1% cups sugar sifted 7 times, 1 cup flour sifted 7 
times, whites of 7 eggs, yolks of 5 eggs, % tsp. cream of 
tartar, 1 tsp. lemon extract. Using a wire egg beater, 
beat whites until light, add cream of tartar, then beat 
in very slowly the sugar. Beat the yolks until very 
thick and add slowly to whites. Flavor and fold in the 
flour. Bake in ungreased pan 45 min. The success of 
th;s cake depends on the oven which must be very slow. 
The cake must rise to the top without browning, in the 
1st 20 min. Invert pan and allow to drop out when 
cold. — Mrs. J. W. Kassel. 

109 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Sunshine Cake 
Whites of 7 eggs, pinch of salt, yolks of 5 eggs, i 
tsp. cream of tartar (scant), li/4 cups sugar (sifted 5 
or 6 times), 1 cup pastry flour (sifted 5 or 6 tilnes), 
lemon extract. Beat whites to a froth, add salt and 
cream of tartai* and beat stiff. Beat yolks very light 
and add to whites. Fold in sugar gradually, then add 
exti-act. Bake in slow oven in ungreased pan 45 min. 

— Mi*s. Hunter Nethery. 

Strawberry Jam Cake 
1 cup sugar, % cup but*er, 3 eggs beaten separately, 
% cup strawberry jam, % cup sour milk, i tsp. sOJct dis- 
solved in the milk, 2 cups pastry flour and 1 tsp. each of 
cinnamon and nutmeg ; cream the butter and sugar, add 
the beaten yolks and continue beating, then the straw- 
berry jam, add a little of the flour to bind the mixtm-e 
together, then the sour milk and the rest of the flour, 
beating well ; add the spices, and lastly fold in the stiffly- 
beaten whites of eggs. Bake in' shallow cake tins about 
35 minutes. — Mrs. C. A. Bottorff. 

Upside Down Cake 

Part 1. — 1% heaping cups brown sugar, 2 heaping 
tbsp. butter, (dissolved in frjring pan). Add the apri- 
cots of 1 large can, (drained). © 

Part 2. — iy2 cups sugar and 3 eggs, beaten 15 min. 
Add 1% cups Swansdown flour sifted with 1% tsp. 
baking powder, % cup cold water, 1 tsp. vanilla and 
pinch of salt. Bake % of an hr. in a moderate oven. 
Serve with whipped cream. Serves 10 persons. 

—Mrs. E. G. Duble. 

110 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Walnut Torte 

1/2 cup butter, i/^ cup sugar, yolks of 4 eggs (beaten) , 
4 t])sp. milkj^ 1 cup flour, 1 tsp. baking powder. 

Mix and put in 2 tins. 

Beat whites of the eggs, add a small cup of sugar 
and put over the top of the layers. Sprinkle 1 cup 
chopped walnuts over the top. Bake 25 minutes at 
300° F. 

Filling^ 

% cups sugar, 1 tbsp. flour, 1 egg, 1 cup water, juice 
and rind of 1 lemon. — Mrs. Rohland Petterson. 

Whipped Cream Cake 
3 eggs, 1 teacup granulated sugar (sifted 3 times), 
vanilla, 1 coffee cup flour (sifted 3 times), 1 tsp. baking 
powder, 7 tbsp. cold w^ater. 

White Layer Cake 

11/2 cups sugar, y^ «» Crisco, 1 cup water, 3 eggs, 
3 cups flour, 3 tsp. baking powde^, ^tsp. vanilla. 

Cream Crisco, add sugar and cream : sift dry ingredi- 
ens, add alternately with the water ; fold in stiffly-beaten 
^^% whites. Bake in layers for 15 minutes in moderate 
o^'en. 

White Cake 

% cup butter, II/2 cups sugar, (creamed), a scant 
cup of milk, whites of 3 eggs, well-beaten, 2 cups flour, 
1 heaping tbsp. cornstarch, 2 tsp. baking powder, flavor- 
ing. — ^Mrs. F. A. Pontious. 

Ill 



AUBREY PROSSER, Pres. JOHN A. PROSSER, Sec'y 

Telephone 414 

Builders Lumber Company 

Lumber and Mill Work 



SHKHMAX AAENITE, North of Main Street 

EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 



WE DELIVER 

G A S O L I N » KEROSENE 

DISTILLATE FOR HEATING 
MOTOR^ILS and GREASES 

CHlGApO TO LAKE FOREST 

The Growth of Our Business PROVES the QUALITY 
of Our Products 



Pennsylvania Oil Co. 

OF EVANSTON 
Rogers Park 1391 Evanston 1391 



112 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Filling^ 

Whip until thick, 1 cup thick cream, 1 cup confec- 
tioner 's sugar. — Mrs. Sadie M. Low. 

Filling 
2 cups confectioner's sugar, 2 tbsp. butter, i/^ cup 
sweet milk. 

Boil 5 minutes and beat well. 

— ^Mrs. Geo. F. Tyson. 

Marshmallow Filling 
Put one hundred marshmallows in double boiler with 
7 tbsp. of hot water, 5 cups of xxxx sugar and vanilla. 
Good for any cake. — Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

Orange Filling 
% cup sugar, 3 tsp. floui*, a little orange rind, 1/4 
cup orange juice and juice of one lemon, 1 egg slightly 
beaten. 

Mix in order given and boil in double boiler unti* 
thick enough to spread. 

— Mrs. H. R. Putnam. 

Boiled Frosting 
2 unbeaten egg Avhites, 1 cup sugar, 3 tbsp. boiling 
water. Place ingredients in top of double boiler. Place 
over boiling water and beat with dover beater for 8 
minutes, no more and no less. Frosting will be ready 
for the cake. Never fails. 

—Mrs. Ella S. Scovill. 
117 



Phone — Evanston 4225 

Hermann Olson Decorating Co. 

PAINTING AND DECORATING 

911 CHICAGO AA^ENUE 

Evanston, 111. 

J. H. COOK Phone Evanston 2417 

General Electric Repair Shop 

Experts on Oiling and Greasing Station Work 

RADIOS AND VESTA BATTERIES 

930 CHICAGO AEVNUE EVANSTON, UjIj. 

QUALITY PRICE SERVICE 

City Market Company 

WHOLiESAIiE MEATS, POULTRY AND FISH 

Phone Evanston 5440 
780 MAIN STREET EVANSTON 

Telephone 192 

M. SCHUMER . 

COKE ^^^^ yV I WOOD 

FEED 

834 Custer Ave. Evanston, 111. 

118 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Caramel Icing 

2 cups brown sugar, 1 tsp. flour rubbed into the 
sugar, 1/^ cup cream, butter size of a walnut. 

Boil all together until it forms a soft ball in cold 
water. 

Chocolate Icing 

1 cup sugar (scant), 3 tbsp. milk or cream, 1 tbsp. 
water, 2 squares Baker 's chocolate. 

Melt the chocolate; add the milk, water and sugar. 
Boil about 5 minutes; spread on cake while hot. 

— Mrs. F. Milhening. 

Chocolate Frosting 

1 cup granulated sugar, 6 tbsp. milk, 2 squares choco- 
late, yolK of 1 egg. 

Boil milk and sugar until it forms a soft ball, about 
6 minutes; add 2 squares of chocolate and stil until dis- 
solved, then add the egg yolk (unbeaten) and stir until 
ready to spread. — Mrs. McKee. 

Cocoa Icing 

1 cup sugar, 1 tbsp. flour, 2 tbsp. cocoa, 5 tbsp. 
milk. Let cook slowly, and when cold, add ^ tsp. 
vanilla. — Mrs. Schermerhorn. 

Frosting 

2 tbsp. butter, 4 tbsp. hot milk, 2 cups xxxx sugar. 
1 tsp. maple flavoring. 

Sprinkle in the nuts. 

— Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

119 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Golden Icing 
Boil % cup water and 2 cups sugar until it threads. 
Pour over well-beaten yolks of 3 eggs. Beat until 
smooth and thick. Add i/^ tsp. flavoring. 

— ^Mrs. Gr. A. Burton. 

Icing 
Cream 1 tbsp. butter with confectioner's sugar and 
add beaten whites of eggs; use enough confectioner's 
sugar to make icing smooth enough to spread. 

— ^Mrs. Orton. 

Mocha Frosting 
3 tbsp. melted butter, 1 cup conf . sugar, 2 tbsp. cocoa, 
1 tbsp. cold coffee, 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Beat butter to a cream, add sugar, cocoa and coffee. 
Add more sugar if not stiff enough to spread. 

— ^Mrs. James H. Thomas. 

Oralige Icing 

A little grated orange rind, 1 tbsp. orange juice, % 
tsp. lemon juice, 1 egg yolk. 

Mix in order given and add enough powdered sugar 
to make it thick enough to spread. Beat well. 

Plain Apple Frosting 
1 cup sugar, white of 1 egg, 1 medium-sized apple, 
nuts, nutmeg or flavoring as desired. 

Grate apple in deep bowl, add white of egg (un- 
beaten) thoroughly cold, and 1 cup of granulated sugar. 
Beat 20 minutes with silver fork. The mixture ryiust be 
kept cold all the time. —Mrs. C. F. Elliott. 

120 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Seven Minute Icing 

1 mibeateii egg white, % cup granulated sugar, 3 
tbsp. cold water. 

Place all ingredients in top of double boiler. Place 
over boiling water and beat with dover beater for seven 
minutes. Add i/^ tsp. flavoring and spread on cake. 

—Mrs. E. K. B. 

Uncooked Fudge Frosting 

1 square chocolate, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tsp. vanilla, 1 
e^g, poAvdered sugar. 

Melt chocolate and butter in bowl over hot water. 
Take from fire, add egg, unbeaten, and vanilla. Stir 
in powdered sugar, about % lb. until stiff enough to 
put on cake, which should not be entirely cold. 



121 



Puddings 



123 



ESTABLISHED 1875 TEL. EVANSTON 130 



John L. Hebblethwaite 

FUNERAL DIRECTORS 

Ambulance Service 




1610 MAPLE AVENUE 
EVANSTON. ILL. 



Telephone Franklin 2605 



GOSS & GUISE 

PLASTERING 
CONTRACTORS 



ROOM 1211 
SECURITY BUILDING 

MADISON & WELLS STREETS 
CHICAGO 



124 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



PUDDINGS 



Apple Corn Flake Pudding- 
Lay a thick layer of corn flakes in a dish ; sprinkle 
with sugar, cinnamon and bits of butter, then a layer 
of apple sauce. Add another layer of cornflakes, 2 tbsp. 
top milk and bake. — Mrs. S. I. Koogle. 

Banana Pudding 

3 eggs, 1% cups sugar, 2 cups scalded milk, 2 tbsp. 
flour, bananas and vanilla wafers. Beat yolks of eggs 
with sugar and flour. Add scalded milk slowly. Boil 
until thick like a custard. Use a layer of custard in the 
dish, add a layer of bananas, then a layer of vanilla 
wafers until the entire quantity is used. Cover with the 
beaten whites of eggs and brown in oven. 

— ^Mrs. Leslie Stewart. 

Bird's Nest 

Pare 6 apples, sweeten and bake. Cover with the 
following custard : 2 tbsps. sugar, yolks of 3 eggs, 3 cups 
milk and 1 tsp. vanilla. Bake until firm. 

— Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

Black Pudding 

1 egg, % cup molasses, 1 tsp. soda in 1 cup boiling 
water, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 1 tsp. cloves, pinch of salt, 21/^ 
cups flour, 1 cup chopped raisins. Steam 2 hours. 

125 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Sauce for Black Pudding 
1 cup powdered sugar, 1 tbsp. butter, creamed ; add 
beaten egg yolk, fold in beaten white, 1 cup whipped 
cream, pinch salt and 1 tsp. vanilla. 

— Mrs. F. A. Malmstone. 



Blackberry Pudding 

cup t>Utt( 
cream 
cup flour, nutme 



JBiacKDerry jf udding 

% cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 3 eggs, 3 tbsp. sour 
in, 1 tsp. soda, 1% cups blackberries and juice, 1% 

TirvilT* T-m+i-v-inro 



Sauce 

1 cup sugar, % cup butter, 1 tbsp. flour, 2 cups 
boiling water, vanilla. — Mrs. I. P. BeiTy. 

Boiled Suet Pudding 
Beat 3 eggs ^dth 14 cup sugar, grated rind of i/^ 
lemon, 4 cups flour, 14 ^^- suet, chopped fine, 1 yeast 
cake dissolved in 1 cup warm milk, 1 cup currants,- i/4 
cup raisins, 1 tsp. cinnamon or a; little cardamon seed, 
1 level tsp. salt. Beat well. Let rise 1% hours in warm 
place, or until light. Boil in cloth 2 hours. Serve with 
lemon or fruit sauce. 

— Mrs. W. F. Brugman. 

Brown Sugar Pudding 

2 cups brown sugar, 2 cups water, 2 tbsp. cornstarch, 
1 ^^S, V2 cup chopped nuts. 

Boil sugar, cornstarch and water in double boiler un- 
til mixture thickens. When cool, add the beaten white 
og egg, and chopped nuts. Serve with custard. 

— Miss Emma Shima. 
126 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Caramel Pudding 

Completely cover a can of Borden's sweetened con- 
densed milk with hot water and boil 3 hours. When 
cold, chill, remove from the can, sprinkle with chopped 
nuts and serve with top milk or cream. 

— Mrs. H. 0. Conger. 

Caramel Tapioca Pudding 

1 pint boiling water, % cnp bro\^^l sugar, 3 tsp. min- 
ute tapioca, boil 15 minutes, stirring frequently. Cool, 
add vanilla, serve with whipped cream. 1 cup dates, 
cut fine, may be addad. — Mrs. U. G. Buck. 

Carrot Pudding 

1 cup grated carrots, 1 cup grated potatoes, 1 cup 
grated or chopped suet, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 tsp. soda 
dissolved in hot water, 1 tsp. salt, 2 tsp. cinnamon, 1 cup 
chopped raisins, 1 cup currants, 1^ large cups of flour. 
Steam well for 2 hours. — Mrs. W. M. Hofstetter. 

Cranberry Pudding 

2 tbsps. shortening, 2 eggs unbeaten, 1 cup milk, 1 
cup sugar — ^blend and add 2i/^ cups flour, 2 tsp. baking 
powder, i/^ tsp. salt sifted together. Stir in 1^^ cups of 
chopped cranberries, bake in greased pan about 40 min- 
utes in a moderate oven. Serve hot with cranberry sauce 
made as follows: 1 cup cranberries and 2 cups water; 
boil gently 10 minutes, or until the berries are soft. 
Strain if desired. Add 1% cups sugar and cook slowly 
for 10 minutes. Serve also with this a hard sauce made 
of iy2 cup butter, 1 cup light brown sugar, 1 tsp. vanilla, 
beaten together until light. — ^Mrs. H'. G. Conger. 

127 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Date Pudding 

1 cup dates, ieut in small pieces, 1 cup bread crumbs, 
1 cup chopped walnuts, i^ cup sugar, 2 eggs, % cup 
water, 1 tsp. baking powder. Mix together the dry in- 
gredients, add the beaten yolks and water. Mix well, 
then fold in the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Bake 
about 1/2 hour in moderate oven. — Mrs. W. L. Ball. 

Date and Walnut Pudding 

1 cup sugar, 4 eggs, IV2 cups chopped dates, 1 cup 
walnut meats, 6 tbsp. flour, 2 tsp. baking powder, pinch 
of salt.  , • 

Add sugar and salt to beaten whites, then the beaten 
yolks, dates and nuts. Sift baking powder with flour 
and mix. Bake in moderate oven 20 or 30 minutes. Cut 
in squares and serve with whipped cream. 

— ^Mrs. Elizabeth Harvey. 

Date and Nut Pudding 

2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 tsp. flour, 1 cup chopped dates, 
1 cup walnuts, 1 tsp. baking powder. 

Beat the eggs and add other ingredients. Stir well, 
put in bread pan and bake 1 hour in slow oven. Serve 
cold with whipped cream. — Mrs. J. F. Flavelle. 

English Plum Pudding 

1 lb. seedless raisins, 1 i^kg. seeded raisins, 14 lb. 
sultana raisins, I/2 lb. mixed peel, i/^ lb. currants, % lb. 
beef suet, 1 lb. sugar, i/^ lb. bread crumbs, 6 eggs, 1 tsp. 
allspice, l^ lb. flour. Add a little milk if dough is not 
soft enough, a little flour if too soft. 

Boil from 8 to 10 hours. Serves 8 people. 

— Mrs. Eosa Tooke. 
128 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

English Plum Pudding 

1 lb. raisins, 1 lb. eurrants, I/2 lb. citron. 1 lb. suet, 
1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. eggs, 1 lb. flour, 4 nutmegs, grated. 
Remove 14 of the flour and substitute bread crumbs. Tie 
down in bowls and boil or steam for 6 hours. 

— Mrs. A. S. Roome. 



Fig Pudding 

1 egg, 2 cups flour, 1 cup bread crumbs, % (*up 
sugar, 1 cup milk, 1 package figs, 1 cup suet, 3 tsp. 
])aking powder. Mix together, place in a greased bowl 
and cover with greased pape^'. Boil at least 6 hours. 

—Mrs. J. F. Flavelle. 



* French Bread Pudding 

1 qt. sweet milk poured over 1 pt. bread crumbs, 1 
tbsp. butter, 1 cup sugar, yolks of 4 eggs. Stir w^ell 
together and bake. When cool spread a thick layer of 
jelly over the pudding and then the stiffly-beaten whites 
of 4 eggs. Sprinkle sugar lightly over top and brown. 

— Mrs. I. Mogren. 



Graham Pudding 

2 cups graham flour, 1 cup molasses, a large I/2 ^^P 
sour milk, 1 tsp. soda, 1 tsp. cinnamon, i/^ tsp. each of 
cloves, nutmeg, allspice, 1 lb. chopped raisins. 

Mix dry ingredients together and add molasses and 
milk. Steam 3 hours. 

129 



Telephone 8430 



FURXLSHINGS & SHOES 

908 CHICAGO AVENUE, Near Main Street 
EVANSTON, ILL. 



Telephones 322-32 3 

R. LORIMER 

Wholesale and Retail Dealer 

PRESH AND SALT MEATS, POUT.TRY 
Game, Fish and Oysters in Season 

519 MAIN STREET EVANSTON, ILL. 

NORTH SHORE OIL CO. . 

Incorporated 

Authorized Dealers 

AGNI MOTOR FUEL 

Service Station: 1118 CHICAGO AVENUE 

Telephone 6335 EVANSTON; ILL. 

A E R O W MARKETS 

QUALITY MEATS 

AT 
REASONABLE PRICES 

Telephone 4858 Telephone 3820 

130 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Sauce 

Cream i/^ cup butter and 1 cup sugar, add 2 well 
beaten egg yolks, then the beaten whites. Beat until 
mixture becomes as thick as whipped cream. Flavor to 
taste. — Mrs. U. G. Buck. 

Ice Box Pudding 

Melt in double boiler % lb. German sweet chocolate, 
and 2 tbsp. boiling water. Beat until shiny and creamy. 
Add 4 beaten yolks, 3 tbsp. sugar, salt and vanilla. Beat 
4 egg whites stiff and add. 

Line a bread tin with waxed paper. Make a layer 
of lady fingers or sponge cake, pour the mixture over 
and set in ice box 4 or 41^ hours to harden. Cut in 
slices and serve. — Mrs. R. E. James. 

Kiss Pudding 

Beat the yolks of 3 eggs with ore-half cup of sugar 

and add IV2 tbsp. corn starch. Stir in 2 cups of boiling 

milk, cook until thick and let cool. Beat the whites with 

V2 cup of sugar, spread over the top and brown in oven. 

— Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

Maple Pudding 
Add 1 tbsp. dissolved gelatine to 1 cup boiling maple 
syrup, and let stand till it begins to set. Have ready 4 
egg whites beaten stiff, with a little salt. Add a small 
amount of maple mixture alternately with small amount 
of beaten egg yolks and beat constantly. A few marsh- 
mallows cut up, or nut meats, or both may be added. 
Mold and serve with whipped cream. Serves 6 to 8 
people. . — Mrs. C. T. Roome. 

131 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Maple Pudding 

3 cups water, 2 cups brown sugar, 3 tbsp. corn 
starch mixed in 1 cup of cold water, pinch of salt. 

Boil, and when thick stir in 1 cup of chopped nut 
meats. Serve with whipped cream. — Mrs. V. White. 



Orange Pudding 

Pare and cut 4 large oranges into pieces and sugar to 
sweeten. Boil 1 pint milk, thicken with 2 tbsp. corn- 
starch, dissolved in a little cold milk. Add the beaten 
yolks of 2 eggs with 14 cup sugar. Boil one minute, then 
pour custard over oranges. Cover top with the whites 
of eggs beaten ^\^th 3 tbsp. sugar. Brown in oven and 
serve warm or cold. — Mrs. H. M. Bannister. 



Orange Pudding 
1 cup rolled bread crumbs, 2 cups scalded milk, 2 
tbsp. butter. Let stand 30 min. 2 egg yolks, l^ cup 
sugar, grated rind and juice of 2 oranges. Mix and 
bake. Beat the whites of the eggs with 2 tbsp. of sugar. 
Top the i)udding and brown in the oven. 

—Mrs. W. M. Hofstetter. 



Plain Steamed Pudding 
1 cup molasses, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup mixed currants 
and raisins, 1 egg, 2 cups chopi)ed suet, flour to make 
a stiff batter, spice to taste. 

Steam 2 hours and serve with sweet sauce. 

— Mrs. A. S. Roome. 
132 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Porcupine Pudding 

Angel food cake, blanched almonds, and whipped 
cream. 

Stick cake full of almonds, pour cream around it 
and serve. — Mrs. Emil Nelson. 



Prune Pudding 

2 eggs, 1 cup brown sugar, % cup flour, 1 cup walnut 
meats, 1 cup prunes, cooked and stoned. 

To the cup of brown sugar add the eggs and beat 
until well-mixed. Now add the flour mixed wath one 
tsp. baking powder. Add the prunes and nuts last, 
lightly folding them in. Bake in moderate oven. Serve 
with cream. — Mrs. H. R. Putnam. 



Q:ueen of Puddings 

2 cups milk, 1 tbsp. butter substitute, 1 cup stale 
bread, 1 egg, 3 tbsp. sugar, 14 tsp. salt, 1/2 tsp. orange 
extract or few gratings of orange rind, marmalade, % 
box marshmallows, 2 tbsp. cocoanut. 

Scald milk, add butter substitute and bread broken 
in small pieces. Let stand until cool, add egg beaten 
slightly with sugar, salt and flavoring. Turn into 
greased baking dish and bake in moderate oven until 
firm. Cover with layer of marmalade, jelly or jam. 
Cover marmalade with a layer of marshmallows and 
sprinkle with cocoanut. Bake until delicately brown. 

— Virginia Klein. 

133 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Scotch Plum Pudding 

1 cup flour, 1 cup bread crumbs, 1 cup crumbled 
suet, 1 cup seedless raisins, 1 cup seeded raisins, 1 cup 
buttermilk, 1 large apple, a few chopped dates, 1 tsp. 
cinnamon, 1 tsp. allspice, 1 tsp. nutmeg, 1 tsp. baking 
powder. 

Tie in bag well dusted with flour and boil steadily 
at least four hours. — Mrs. F. Milhening. 



Snow Pudding 

Take ^ package gelatine, pour over it 1 cup cold 
water and II/2 cups sugar. AVhen soft, add 1 cup boiling 
water and juice of 1 lemon. When it begins to harden, 
add the well-beaten whites of 4 eggs and beat all 
together until very light. Pour into glass dish to harden. 
Serve cold with the following custard. 



Custard 

1 pt. milk, yolks of 4 eggs, 1 tsp. vanilla. 

— Miss T. Grain. 



Snow Pudding 

1^4 tbsp. gelatine, 14 cup cold water, 1 cup boiling 
water, 1 cup sugar, y^ cup lemon juice, whites of 3 eggs. 

Soak gelatine in cold water, add boiling water, stir 
until dissolved, add sugar and lemon juice. Strain and 
set in a cool place. When nearly cold or ready to set, 
add the stiffly-beaten whites of the eggs. 

134 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Sauce for Snow Pudding 

V2 ^^^P sugar, 1 pint milk, yolks of 3 eggs. 

Heat the milk and sugar in double boiler, add the 
beaten yolks and cook until medium thick. Pour over 
the pudding when serving. — Mrs. L. Scharstein. 

Snow Ball Pudding 
1 cup sugar, i/^ cup butter, y^ cup milk, 2 cups flour, 
whites of 4 eggs, 2 tsp. baking powder, pinch of salt, a 
little vanilla. Steam 25 minutes; cover with crushed 
fruit and whipped cream. — Mrs. I. Fisher. 

Steamed Pudding 

1 cup suet, 1 cup molasses, i/^ cup sugar, I/2 cup 
raisins or currants, 1 tsp. salt, 2 tsp. baking powder, 1 
cup milk (sweet, sour, or water), 2i/^ cups flour, pinch 
of soda. 

Steam 2 or 3 hours and bake 20 minutes. Serve 
Avith Estelle Saupe. — Mrs. M. L. Wigginton. 

Steamed Pudding 

1 cup cut up suet and li/^ cup flour mixed thorough- 
ly, 1/2 cup milk or more, % tsp. salt, I/2 cup molasses, I/2 
tsp. soda, 1 tsp. baking powder, 1 e^g beaten, raisins, 
currants, figs, and any other fruit. 

Steam in baking powder cans for 2 hours at least. 
This will keep a long time. 

Sauce 

1 tbsp. flour (heaping), 4 or 5 tbsp. sugar, 1 tbsp. 
butter, nutmeg and salt. Add hot water enough to make 
a thin sauce. — Mrs. C. T. Roome. 

135 



Telephone 567 

JOHX VICTOR LEE 

THE MAIN STREET DRUGGIST 

N. E. Cor. Main and Chicago 
EVANSTON, ILL. 

jEQUIP YOUR HOME WITH THE BEST 

Call and See Our Equipment 

OIL BURNERS — GAS RANGES — ICE MACHINES 
HOT WATER HEATERS — WASHING MACHINES 

OU Heating and Refrigerating Co. 

819 CHICAGO AVENUE 



A. J. SAMUEL SON 

GENERAL CONTRACTOR 
AND BUILDER 

189 WEST MADISON STREET 

Phone Main 4266 CHICAGO 



ROBERT P. CARSEN 

SCENIC STUDIOS 

Specialize in the constructing and renting of scenery 
for theatrical organizations, dramatic clubs, schools, 
and churches. 

1507 NORTH CLARK STREET 

Telephone Superior 1852 CHICAGO, ILL. 



136 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Steam Pudding 

2 lbs. raisins, 1 cup chopped suet, 1 tsp. lemon ex- 
tract, cinnamon, 2 eggs, 1 heaping tsp. soda dissolved in 
warm water, 1 cup milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 
flour to make quite stiff, stiffer than cake batter, steam 
3 hours — makes 2 large puddings. '- -i 

— Mrs. S. F. Burden. 



Steamed Bread Pudding 

1 pt. bread crumbs, 1 cup cold w^ater poured over 
bread. Let stand for 14 hour. 

1 cup molasses (Duff's), 1 egg beaten well, 1 large 
tbsp. butter (melted), 1 tsp. soda, 1 cup raisins cut fine, 
1 cup flour, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 14 tsp. cloves, I/2 tsp. salt. 

Steam in well-greased tins, 2 hours. Serve with the 
following sauce. 

SAUCE — 11/2 tbsp. butter creamed, 1 cup pulverized 
sugar, 1 egg beaten light. Beat well together. Before 
serving, fold in 5 tbsp. whipped cream, or more, 1 tsp. 
vanilla. Mrs. A. S. Maxham. 



Steamed Orange Pudding 

1/2 cup molasses, II/2 tbsp. melted butter, 1 tbsp. 
orange juice, grated rind of 14 orange, i/o tsp. salt, 14 
tsp. ginger; 1/2 cup sour milk, 1 tsp. soda, 1% cups 
flour. 

Put in buttered mold and steam 1 hour. Serve with 
orange sauce. — Mrs. Fred Stewart. 

137 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

St. James Puddings 

3 tbsp. butter, % cup molasses, 14 cup milk, 1J4, cups 
flour, y2 tsp. soda, 14 tsp. each of salt, cloves, allspice, 
and nutmeg, I/2 pound dates, stoned and cut in pieces. 

Mix and turn into buttered mold and steam 21/2 
hours. Serve with hard or cream sauce. — Mrs. Salene. 

Suet Pudding 

1 cup suet, 1 tsp. salt, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup milk, 1 
cup raisins, Si/o cups flour, 1 egg, 1 tsp. soda, 1 tsp. 
nutmeg. 

Steam 3 hours. 

Sauce 

1 cup sugar, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 egg, 1 bottle cream, 
whipped. — Mrs. Warren Edwards. 

Swedish Pudding 

2 qts. milk, 2 eggs, 1 cup flour, 1 scant cup sugar, 1 
cardamon seed, crushed. Heat milk lukewarm, dissolve 
1/2 tablet rennet and add to milk, set aside to settle but 
do not stir. Ser\'e with crushed fruit. 

— Mrs. I. Mogren. 

Tapioca Pudding 

1/2 cup pearl tapioca, 2 cups water, 1 quart milk, 1 
tsp. butter, 3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, flavoring. 

Wash the tapioca in several watei*s and let soak over 
night. Heat the milk with the butter. Beat the yolks 

138 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

of eggs with J^ cup sugar and a pinch of salt. Add to 
the hot milk and boil for 5 minutes. Remove from fire 
and add flavoring. Pour into pudding dish. Beat the 
whites of eggs stiff, add 3 tbsp. sugar, spread on top 
of pudding and brown in oven. 

— Mrs. Amelia Merrell. 



Estelle Sauce 

1 cup sugar, 2 tbsp. flour, pinch salt, I/2 tsp. vanilla. 
Mix thoroughly and pour over 1 pint boiling water. 
Add vanilla. — Mrs. M. L. Wigginton. 

Hard Sauce 

Ys cup butter, 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 tsp. vanilla. 
Cream butter and sugar thoroughly ; add the vanilla. 

—Mrs. S. C. Wood. 



Orange Sauce 

Mix 1 cup sugar, 1 tbsp. flour and add 1% cups 
boiling water. Place over fire and add pinch of salt, 
1 heaping tbsp. butter and 1 sliced orange. 

— Mrs. Fred Stewart. 



Pudding Sauce 

2 eggs beaten light, 1 cup sugar, 14 cup butter, juice 
of 1 lemon. Cook in double boiler until thick. 

—Mrs. W. M. Hofstetter. 
139 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Sauce for Plum Pudding 
2 cups sugar, 2 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. flour, 2 eggs, 
(whites and yolks beaten separately), 1 cup boiling 
water. 

Mix flour with sugar. Add butter, the egg yolks and 
boiling water. Boil, stirring steadily for a few minutes. 
Remove from fire and add the beaten whites. Flavor 
with nutmeg or lemon juice. 

— Mrs. Hunter Nethery. 

Apple Cobbler with Brown Sugar Sauce 

Place nice cooking apples in bottom of baking dish. 
Make a batter as follows : 1 tbsp. butter, 1/2 cup sugar, 
pinch salt, 1/2 cup milk. Add milk alternately with 1 
cup flour sifted with 1 tsp. baking powder. Pour over 
apples and bake until well browned. 

Brown Sugar Sauce: 1 tbsp. butter, 1 cup brown 
sugar, 1 tbsp. flour, 1 cup boilng water. Mix sugar and 
flour together. Add the boiling water slowly, stirring 
constantly. Add butter and boil until thick. Add 1 
tsp. vanilla. — ^Mrs. W. J. Putnam. 

Apple Dumplings for Six 

11/^ cups flour, 3 tsp. baking powder, y^. tbsp. butter, 
% tsp. salt, milk enough to make a dough like biscuit. 
Roll out and sprinkle with brown sugar, chopped apples 
and cinnamon. Roll up like jelly roll and slice. 

Sweet sauce: 1 cup sugar, 1 tbsp. flour, 1 tbsp. 
butter, 1 cup hot water, salt, and cook 2 minutes. Put 
the dumplings in sauce and bake about 20 minutes. 

— Mrs. G. A. Burton. 
140 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Apricot Whip 

1 cup of apricots soaked and cooked, then pressed 
through strainer. Beat in the white of 1 egg and % cup 
of sugar. Beat for 15 or 20 minutes, then set aside to 
cool. — Mrs. D. M. Cook. 

Baked Bananas and Apples 
6 apples, 3 bananas, 6 tsp. sugar, 1 tbsp. lemon juice. 
Prepare apples as for ordinary baking, but make the 
hole from which the core is removed large enough to 
hold % banana. If banana is too large, it may be trim- 
med off a little. Sugar, sprinkle with lemon juice, bake 
as usual. . — Mrs. Emil Nelson. 

Baked Apples 

Peal and quarter apples, place in pan with sugar, 
butter and cinnamon. Bake until tender. Cover with 
marshmallows, return to oven and brown. 

^Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

Baked Apples and Pineapple 
Core apples and fill with grated pineapple. Sprinkle 
with sugar. Place a little water in. the bottom of a pan 
and bake. Serve with whipped cream. 

—Mrs. W. S. Brugman. 

Blueberry Heavenly Hash 
1 qt. blueberries, w^ashed and sugared, 2 pkgs. An- 
gelus Marshmallows cut in fourths, 1 qt. whipped cream. 
Mix about i^ hr. before ready to serve. 

— Marion McGauran. 

143 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Caramel Custard 
1 quart milk, 1§ cups sugar, 5 eggs, pinch of salt, 
vanilla to flavor. Turn milk into saucepan to warm, 
put sugar into large bottom saucepan to be caramelized 
by stirring over a slow fire, mitil a brown syrup. Pour 
in hot milk and set aside until dissolved — several hours. 
Beat whole eggs, add milk mixture, ^alt and vanilla. 
Pour into shallow baking dish and bake in slow oven 
for about 1 hour. Ample for 8 persons. 

— Mrs. H. S. Camp. 

Caramel Mousse 
1 pt. whipped cream, % lb. peanut brittle (ground). 
Whip the cream, add ground brittle, and put in mold. 
Set away on ice twelve houi*s. — Mrs. AV. F. Struebing. 

Chocolate Pudding 
Cook in double boiler, 2 squares of chocolate, i/^ cup 
sugar, 4 tbsp. boiling water. Add % cup sweet cream, 
2 yolks of eggs well-beaten, and 14 ^^V milk. Lastly add 
the well-beaten whites. Cook 15 minutes. Serve cold 
with whipped cream. — Mrs. George F. Tyson. 

Creme Caramel 
Boil 1 pt. milk in double boiler. Caramelize 1 cup 
brown sugar, add to hot milk and stir until dissolved. 
Remove from fire, add yolks of 2 eggs, 3 dessert spoons 
cornstarch, and 1 cup cold milk. Return to fire and cook 
until the mixture thickens. Remove from fire and stir 
in stiffly-beaten whites of eggs, flavor ^vith vanilla and 
beat well. Put in glasses and serve with whipped cream. 

— Mrs. Mary Curtiss. 
144 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Cinnamon Baked Apples 

Select large firm red apples, core and pare them 
about % the way down from stem end. Place in a 
casserole or any pan that can be closely covered. Pour 
over them a syrup made as follows: For every 6 apples 
use 1 cup sugar, i% cups of water and boil together for 
6 minutes. Cover apples closely and place in a 400° 
F. oven or" over a low flame and allow to. cook 
until tender, yet firm and unbroken, basting frequently. 
When cooked remove cover, fill with cinnamon and 
sugar, and place in a hot oven or under the flame of the 
broiler until the sugar melts and coats th<p apples a 
delicate golden bro\Mi. Cool and serve with whipped 
cream. — Mrs. Anna Samway. 

Delicious Dessert 

% box Plymouth Rock Gelatine soaked in 1 cup cold 
water 10 minutes. Put cup in hot water until melted. 
Cool and add to it 1 pint whipped cream. Make a 
custard of 1 pint of milk, 2 eggs, and V^ cup sugar. 
Cook until thick, and let cool. Whip all together, and 
serve with sun-preserved strawberries. 

^A. C. K. 



Fig Charlotte 

Soak 1' tbsp. of gelatine y^ hour in i/4 cup of cold 
water. Add i/4 crup boiling water and 1 cup of sugar. 
When cool, add 1 pint cream, whipped stiff, 1 tsp. 
vanilla and i^ pound figs chopped fine. Place in cool 
place to harden. — Mrs. V. White. 

145 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Food for the Gods 

Beat yolks of 6 eggs, add 2 cups sugar with 2 tsp. 
baking powder sifted in. Then add 12 tbsp. cracker 
crumbs rolled coarse, 1 cup chopped dates and i/2 cup 
nuts. Fold in the beaten whites and bake in bread pan 
in very slow oven 45 minutes. Serve with whipped 
cream. Serves 12 people. 

— Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

Heavenly Hash 

1 can pineapple and 1 can peaches, diced. Cook the 
;uices, thicken with corn starch and 2 cups of sugar, 
1 tbsp. vanilla. Pour over the fruit and mix well, ^ervc 
with cream. — Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 



Irish Moss Jelly for Invalids 
1/2 cup Irish Moss, 1 lemon, 1 pint boiling water, % 
cup sugar. 

Soak moss in cold water until soft. Pick over and 
wash again. Put in boiling water and simmer until dis- 
solved. Add kmon juice and sugar ; strain into a mould. 

^Mrs, Wallace Severance. 



Lemon Custard 
Cream 1 tsp. each of flour and butter, add 1 cup 
sugar and 2 egg yolks. Beat hard and add juice and 
rind of 1 lemon. Pour in 1 cup milk and 2 beaten egg 
whites, and bake in pan set in hot water until a light 
brown. Serves 5 or 6. —Mrs. Clyde Gorton. 

146 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Lemon Fromage 

(Danish.) 
10 eggs, 14 lb. sugar, juice of 3 lemons, % pkg. Knox's 
gelatine, and flavoring. Beat the yolks with sugar for 
1/2 hour, and add the gelatine dissolved in the lemon 
,iuiee. Beat whites stiff and mix. Make the day before 
using and set in cold place. Serve with whipped cream. 
Serves 10 persons. Very fine. Mrs. W. E. Foster. 



Macaroon Cream 

% envelope Knox's Gelatine, % cup cold water, 1 
tsp. vanilla, % cup crushed macaroons and chopped nuts, 
1% cups milk, 3 eggs, Va cup sugar, % tsp. salt. Soak 
gelatine in cold water five minutes, then make a custard 
with egg yolks, sugar, salt and milk. Add gelatine and 
when cool add vanilla, macaroons and chopped nuts, then 
the whites of eggs. Put into mold until firm and serve 
with whipped cream. — Mrs. W. E. Gunn. 



Meringue Dessert 

To the whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff add slowly 1 cup 
of sugar, 1 tsp. vinegar and 1 tsp. vanilla. Bake in 
muffin tins for 1 hour in a very slow oven. Before 
serving, carefully remove tops, fill with whipped cream 
and fruit, and replace tops. Serves 8 persons. 

—Mrs. W. H. Blacker. 

147 



SHER-MAIN PHARMACY 

SOO MAIX STREET Cor. Sherman Ave. 

'* Down town Prices 
Uptown Service" 

Call us for your wants 
Evanston 4811 

Free Delivery — 

ANYTHING 
ANYWHERE and 
ANY TIME 



REALTORS INSURERS 



Stanley & Company 

1700 DEIVIPSTER STREET 

EVANSTON, ILL. 



STANLEY J. PIOTROWICZ 
. Phone Evanston 7384 

148 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Orange Deliglit 

Slice very thin, rind and all, 3 large seedless oranges 
and 1 large lemon. Pour over the sliced fruit 11 tumblers 
of water and set away for 24 hours, then boil slowly for 

1 hour. After boiling, add 4 lbs. gran, sugar and set 
away for 24 hours longer. Then boil 1 hour and 25 
minutes. Pour into glasses and cover with paraffin. 

— Mrs. H. M. Bannister. 

Pineapple Tapioca 

Soak % cup of minute tapioca in 1^ pt. cold water. 
Add 11/^ pt. boiling water, 1 can grated pineapple, 1 
cup sugar, juice of 2 lemons. Add beaten whites of 2 
eggs. Cook and serve with cream. 

— Mrs. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

Pineapple Torte 

Two cups butter, 4 cups flour, 10 egg yolks, 6 tbsp. 
sugar, 2 tsp. baking powder, 1 small can grated pine- 
apple. Cream sugar, e^^ and butter. Thicken juice with 

2 cups flour and 4 tbsp. sugar. Beat egg whites with 
4 tbsp. powdered sugar, 1 tsp. baking powder and a few 
nuts. This is very fine. 

— ^Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

Pineapple Tort 

1 medium can sliced pineapple cut up, or laid in bot- 
tom of iron skillet whole (no grease or butter). 1 large 
cup brown sugar brought to a boil with 2 tbsps. of water 
and 2 tbsps. of butter. Pour this over pineapple, then 
make thin cookie dough as follows : 

149 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

1 tbsp. melted butter, % cup sugar, 2 eggs well- 
beaten, 4 tbsp. water, 1 tsp. vanilla, 1 cup flour, 2 tsp. 
baking powder. Pour dough over the pineapple and let 
pan drop suddenly on a wooden table or stove from a 
distance of 4 or 5 inches. This takes out large air 
bubbles and makes the gi*ain of the cake fine. Bake 
45 minutes in moderate oven, turn out in plate bottom 
side up and serve with whipped cream. 

—Mrs. G. F. Falley. 

Peach Cobbler 
1 cup flour, 2 tsps. baking powder, i/4 tsp. salt, 2 
tsp. butter, % cup milk. Mix as for baking powder 
biscuits. Pare and slice six or eight peaches and put in 
the bottom of a baking dish. Add 1 cup of sugar and 
% cup of water. Cover with the batter and bake 30 min- 
utes in a moderate oven. Serve with cream and sugar. 
Canned or dried peaches may be used. 

— Mrs. G. A. Nichols. 

Queen Apples 

Pare 6 large apples, remove core leaving the apples 
whole. Place in sauce pan with a small cup of cinnamon 
candy, 1 cup sugar, and water to the top of the apples. 
Simmer slowly. When apples are tender, remove them 
and boil the juice to a thick syrup. When ready to 
serve place an apple on a plate; fill center with nut 
meats, pour syrup over and a generous spoonful of 
w^hipped cream. 

Raspberry juice may be used in place of the candy. 
May be used for Mock Tomato Salad, by omitting the 
sugar and using salad dressing. — Mrs. Victor White. 

150 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Raisin Puff 

2 eggs, 1/^ cup butter (scant), 1 cup milk, 2 tbsp. 
sugar, 2 cups flour, 3 tsp. baking powder, 1 cup chopped 
raisins. Steam 1 hour. 

Sauce : 1 cup brown sugar, 1 heaping tbsp. butter, 
2 tbsp. flour. Cream together, add 2 cups boiling water, 
and boil until thick. — Mrs. C. B. Coon. 



Rice Surprise 

1 cup'^hot cooked rice, 1 tbsp. gelatin, 2 or 3 tbsp. 
sugar, 3/4 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. vanilla, 1 cup whipped cream. 

Soak the gelatin in 3 tbsp. cold water for 5 minutes, 
and mix witRi> rice. Add the sugar, salt and vanilla ; 
beat well. Set aside until it begins to congeal. Beat the 
cream st^f f and fold in. Pour into mould and let harden. 
Turn onto a platter and serve with orange sauce, made 
by boiling until thick, 1 cup sugar, % cup water, juice 
and a little grated rind of 1 orange. Serves 6. 



Lemon Rice 

1 cup boiled rice, 1 pt. milk, 2 eggs, 1 lemon, 1 cup 
sugar. Boil milk and stir in rice; beat yolks with 1/2 
cup of sugar, add to the. milk and rice and cook until 
thick as soft custard. Take from stove, grate in the 
rind of Temon and pour into pudding dish. Beat whites 
of eggs with remaining % cup sugar, add juice of lemon 
and pour over pudding. Serve cold. 

— Mrs. H. McPherrin. 
151 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Rice Fluff 

Soak% box gelatine in % cup cold milk, cook % cup 
rice in double boiler with li/^ pints milk, l^ tsp. salt. 
When tender, add the soaked gelatine, stir gently until 
dissolved, add i/^ cup sugar and let cool. When it 
begins to thicken add 1 tsp. vanilla and 1 cup whipped 
cream. Pour in mould to set. — Mi-s. I. Mogren. 



Sour Cream Torte 

% cup butter, % cup sugar, 1 tsp. vanilla, yolks of 
4 eggs added one at a time. 3 tbsp, milk, 1 cup flour, 
1 tsp. baking powder. 

Spread dough in pans, add the whites of eggs, beaten 
with 10 tbsp. granulated sugar, chopped walnuts, or 
fresh cocoanut. Bake in moderate oven until a light 
brown. 



Filling 

1 cup sour cream, 3 tbsp. granulated sugar (in double 
boiler). Thicken with 1 tbsp. cornstarch dissolved in a 
little water, then add 1 egg, well-beaten, and beat 
thoroughly with beater. Flavor with vanilla. 

— Mrs. Rosa Tooke. 

Strawberry Fluff 

Mash 1 cup b^tra wherries, add 1 cup sugar, beaten 
whites of 2 eggs. Pour over slices of cake, or lady 
fingers, and serve with whipped cream. 

— Mrs. J. E. Hathaway. 
152 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Spanish Cream 

1 envelope Knox's gelatine, 3 eggs, 1 tbsp. vanilla, 1 
. qt. milk, 8 tbsp. sugar. Soak gelatine in milk 5 minutes. 
 Place in double boiler wdth a little salt, and when hot, 
; add yolks of eggs and 4 tbsps. sugar well beaten. Stir 

until it comes to the boiling point. Remove from fire 
i and add the well-beaten whites, to which has been added 

4 tbsps. sugar, stirring briskly until thoroughly mixed. 

Flavor and turn into mold. Serve with whipped cream. 
; Thisa. forms a jelly in bottom of pan with custard on 
i top. Serves 8. — Mrs. W. H. Blacker. 



Turkish Delight 

1 can sliced pineapple, 1 small bottle maraschino 
cherries, % lb. marshmallows, 1 pt. cream. Drain pine- 
apple, wipe dry and cut into small pieces. Drain cherries 
and cut in halves. Drain in separate bowls over night. 
Cut or xjull marshmallows into 4 pieces. Pour cream 
over this and let stand until marshmallows have dis- 
solved ; stir once in a while. Pour fruit into this and 
serve. — Mrs. Margie Moore, i 



Caramel Ice Cream 

2 qts. milk, 1 qt. cream, 2 cups sugar, 1 scant cup 
flour, 1 tbsp. vanilla, 4 eggs. 

Make a custard of 1 qt. of the milk, flour, sugar and 
eggs. Add cream and the rest of the milk, vanilla and 
caramel. 

153 



Telephone 2 963 



John H. Neakrans 

GENERAL TEAMING 

CONTRACTING AN}> HAULING 
Sand, Gravel, Black Dirt 
Excavating and Grading 

1557 Dewey Avenue, Evanston 



LAUNDRY SATISFACTION 

by 

"THE LAUNDRY OF COMPLETE SERVICE" 

Ser. 1— Wet Wash. 

' ' 2 — Wet wash : household linen ironed. 

" 4 — Rough dry, no starch. 

" 5 — Rough dry with starch. 

" 7 — Domestic — Finished ready to wear. 

*' 6 — Prim-o-prest — Ready to wear hand fin- 
ished, complete in every detail. 

Dry cleaning and pressing. 

FRENCH LAUNDRY 

Phone 2777 



154 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Caramel 

Melt 2 cups sugar in a skillet, add 2 cups boiling 
water and boil 10 minutes. 

—Mrs. L. D. Trabert. 



Frozen Maple Cream 

1 cup maple syrup cooked until it threads, 4 egg 
yolks beaten and cooked with syrup until thick. Set 
aside to cool. 1 pt. cream, whipped, and mixed with 
custard. Pack in a large coffee can, tightly cover and 
pack in ice and salt 4 hours.. 

Serves 14 people and is very delicious. 

—Mrs. W. A. Brodkorb. 



Delicious with Ice Cream 

Let 1 cup raisins simmer in water to cover until soft, 
add honey to sweeten and 1 tbsp. lemon juice. Thicken 
with cornstarch and add a pinch of salt. Mash 3 large 
bananas and add to raisin mixture while w^arm. When 
creamy, top ice cream with a tbsp. of the mixture. 

— Mrs. E. S. Nethercut. 

Chocolate Sauce for Ice Cream 

1/2 cup sugar, lA cup boiling water, 1 square chocolate 
(melted over steam), 1 large tbsp. butter, 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Mix sugar, water and butter together and when boil- 
ing, pour gradually over the melted chocolate, stirring 
constantly. Return to fire, cook until a good smooth 
syrup, and add vanilla. — Mrs. Hunter Nethery. 

155 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Pineapple Ice 

(3 gallons.) 

1 quart grated pineapple, 10 lemons, 12 egg-whites, 
about 8 pints sugar. 

^lake 21/^ gallons of mixture (water enough to fill 
up). . Make good strength lemonade, plenty sweet and 
add pineapple. When mixture is half frozen, add the 
stiffly-beaten whites. Continue freezing till solid. Cool 
cups before serving. 

Lemon Ice 
6 lemons, 9 oranges, whites of eggs, sugar. Use above 
method. 

Frappe 

Use above recipe, leave out eggs and add more water. 

—Mrs. H. R. Wright. 

Lemon Ice 
(Quarts.) 
1 qt. milk, 2 cups granulated sugar, 7 lemons, 2 
oranges, 2 egg whites (beaten stiff). 

Put milk and sugar in freezer and freeze a little, 
then add the fruit juices and last, the egg whites, then 
freeze stiff. — Mrs. Margie Moore. 

Lemon Ice 
3 oranges, 5 lemons, -i cups sugar, 6 cups ice water, 
9 egg whites, beaten stiff. Grate rind of oranges, freeze. 

—Mrs. U. G. Buck. 
156 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Pineapple Ice 

1 can pineapple, li/^ cans water, 1 heaping tsp. 
gelatine dissolved in hot water, 2 cups sugar. Freeze. 

—Mrs. W. H. Blake. 

Maple Mousse 

1 cup of hot maple syrup poured over the well-beaten 
yolks of 4 eggs. 

Let stand until cold. Beat and add the well-beaten 
whites of 4 eggs, and % to 1 pt. cream beaten stiff. 

Pack in salt and ice, % ice and % salt. Let stand 4 
to 6 hrs. but do not stir. 

— Mrs. G. W. Heavener. 



Orange Mousse 

1^2 cups orange juice, i/4 cup lemon juice, 1 cup 
sugar, 1/^ cup nuts, 1 bottle whipped cream, I/2 cup 
powdered sugar, I/2 tsp. vanilla. 

Melt sugar in orange juice. Put in a mold, then add 
nuts and cream (whipped stiff). Freeze 2 or 3 hours, 
using 1 part of salt to 3 parts of ice. 

— Mrs. S. N. Gustafson. 

Lemon Sherbet 

3 lemons to 1 quart water, 6 tbsp. sugar. Pare yellow 
peel from lemons and leave out, unless you are to use 
it at once. Slice and squeeze the lemons upon sugar, let 
stand 15 minutes, add water and ice. Orangeade is 
made in the same way. — A Friend. 

157 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Strawberry Sherbet 
1 qt. fresh ripe strawberries, 3 pts. water, juice of 1 
lemon, 1 tbsp. orange-flower w^ater, % lb. sugar. 

Crush berries to a smooth paste, add water, lemon 
juice, orange-flower water, and let stand 3 hours. Strain 
over the sugar, stir until sugar is dissolved, strain again, 
let stand 2 or more hours before using. 

— Mrs. F. Baulch. 



%^ T^ 








^n^C 










5/n#u^'^' ^f^ 



(^ C/ v.. 



•^ 



-^ 



158 



\ 



Piistry 



159 



PULFREY & CYRUS 

REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS 

I n s 11 r a n c e 

905 CHICAGO AVENUE 

Phone Evanston 9020 



Your Best Recipe will fail if you have not 
the proper equipment. 

We have a full line of Kitchen Utensils and Gas Ranges 

North Shore Hardware Co. 

Phone 11 618 DAVIS STREET Evanston 

EVANSTON TRANSFER CO. 

MOVING 
BAGGAGE EXPRESS 

Long Distance Removals 
716 MAIN STREET Phone 5112 



G. C. S C H E I B E, Inc. 

GROCER 

Two Stores 
601 DEMPSTER STREET 926 DAVIS STREET 

Phones: 2525, 2526, 2527 Phones: 2187, 2188 

EVANSTON, ILL. 



160 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



PASTRY 



Pie 

- - ! • » 

Pie Crust for one pie: 1 cup flour, i/^ cup shorten- 
inpf. Rub the shortenin*^ well into the flour and mix 
with cold water until it all sticks together. The less 
water used the better the crust. 

Cream Filling: i/o cup sugar, 1 tbsp. cornstarch, 
yolks of 2 eggs, and 1 cup scalded milk. Cook until 
thick and pour into previously-baked crust. Beat the 
wliite of eggs, add a little sugar, put on top of pie and 
brown in a slow oven. 

Variations of above recipe: For spice pie stir into 
the cooked filling 1 scant tsp. each of ground cinnamon 
and cloves. 

For cocoanut pie add 14 ^^^P shredded cocoanut to 
filling after it is cooked. 

For chocolate pie, gi*ate 2 heaping tbsp. of chocolate 
and cook with the filling. 

For banana pie slice 2 bananas into the crust and 
then pour the filling over them. 

For orange pie, do the same using sliced oranges. 

For nut pie stir 1 cup of finely-chopped nuts 
into the filling. Chopped dates put into the filling 
make a delicious pie. — Mrs. H. R. Putnam. 

161 



NEIOHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Never Fail Pie Crust 

1/2 brick Good Luck, i/^ cup boiling water, 3 cup:; 
flour, pinch salt. 

Pour boiling water over the Good Luck, and let it 
dissolve and cool. 

Add flour and salt and mix with a fork. 

Makes 2 pies. Will keep. —Mrs. W. L. Ball. 

Brown Butter Pie 
Brown in a pan, 1 large tbsp. butter, add 1 cup milk 
and y^ cup water, and let come to a boil. Mix 1 cup 
light brown or white sugar, 2 egg yolks, 3 tbsp. flour. 
Stir into the hot butter and milk and boil together. 
Use whites for top Makes 1 large pie. 

— Mrs. A. Christoph, Hamlet, Ind. 

Butter Scotch Pie 

1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup milk, 1 tbsp. corn starch, 
yolks of 2 eggs, butter size of an egg, vanilla flavoring. 

Cream eggs and sugar and add milk. Let come to a 
boil and add cornstarch, dissolved in a little water. Boil 
a few minutes, add butter, remove from fire and flavor. 
Place in baked crust with beaten whites over top. 

Brown in oven. — Mrs. L. D. Trabert. 

Butter Scotch Pie 

1 cup dark brown sugar, 1 cup milk, 1 tbsp. corn- 
starch, yolks of 2 eggs, butter the size of an egg, vanilla. 

Cream eggs and sugar, add milk, let come to a boil, 
add butter, remove from fire, add flavor. Place in a 
baked crust; cover with beaten whites of eggs. Brown 
in oven. — Mrs. L. D. Trabert. 

162 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Butter-milk Pie 

1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup buttermilk, 1 cup raisins, 
1 tbsp. vinegar, % tsp. each of cloves, allspice and cinna- 
mon. This makes 1 large pie. 

Bake with 2 crusts. — Mrs. U. G. Buck. 



Caramel Pie 

1 cup sour cream, 1 cup sugar, 1/2 cup chopped 
raisins, pinch of soda. 

Put over fire and cook until dark. Then add 1 tbsp. 
flour with a little water and bake with two crusts. 

— Mi-s. V. White. 



Cocoanut Pie 

Crust: Chop 3 tbsps. lard into 1 cup flour and 1^ 
tsp. salt, add 3 tbsp. cold w^ater, roll out and bake in 
one crust. 

Filling: 2 cups scalded milk, 3 egg yolks, i/^ cup 
sugar, 2 tbsp. corn starch, i/4 tsp. salt, 1 tbsp. butter, 
grated rind of 14 lemon, 1 tbsp. lemon juice. Mix in- 
gredients and cook in double boiler until thick. Pour 
into baked crust and cover Avith the beaten whites, to 
which have been added 1 tbsp. xxxx sugar. Brown in 
oven. — Mrs. R. Timm. 

163 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

English Mince Meat 

1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. beef suet (grated), 1 lb. currants, 1 
lb. seedless raisins, 1 lb. seeded raisins, i/^ lb. mixed 
candied peel, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 1 tsp. allspice, ^2 tsp. nut- 
i^pg) Vz tsp. mace, the juice and rind of 1 lemon, 4 nice 
baking apples. Put through the food chopper the fruits, 
including apples ; mix the sugar with the 'sf^ices and 
grated suet. Add lemon and mix all ingredients well. 
Then seal in mason jars until--Jieeded. Keeps indefinitely 
and improves with age. 

— Mrs. Thomas Savage. 

Jelly Pie 

Line pie plate with crust. Spread over the crust 
% cup of jelly (one may use jelly that has sugared, by 
adding a little water and stirring over the fire before 
putting into crust). Beat thoroughly: 3 eggs, scant cup 
of sugar, scant 1/2 cup of butter. Bake slowly. 

Reserve whites of 2 eggs for meringue. Add sugar 
to taste and spread over top. Return to oven to browif. 

— Mrs. Florence Baulch. 

Lemon Pie 

3 eggs, juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 cup sugar, 
3 tbsp. boiling water. 

Cook yolks of eggs, 1/2 cup sugar, juice and rind of 
lemon and water in double boiler until thick. 

Beat whites of eggs until stiff and add I/2 cup sugar. 
Stir in boiled mixture, put in baked crust and brown 
in oven. — Mrs. M. Belle Woods. 

164 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK* BOOK 

Lemon Surprise Pie 

Yolks of 3 eggs, rind and juice of 1 lemon, % cup 
sugar^S tbsp. hot water. 

Cook in double boiler until thick. Beat whites of 
eggs until stiff and add 14 cup sugar, beating again. 
Add to other mixture and beat well. Put in baked pie 
crust and brown quickly in hot oven. 

—Mrs. R. Seefurth. 



Lemon Cream Pie 

Put 2 cups water in double boiler and add 1 large cup 
sugai* with grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, 1 tbsp. 
butter and pinch of salt. When boiling hot, add 2 heap- 
ing tbsp. cornstarch, which has been dissolved in a little 
cold water, stirring rapidly until Avell cooked. Set aside 
to cool slightlj^and add the beaten yolks of 3 eggs. Line 
pie plate with rich crust partly baked, fill with lemon 
mixture and return to oven and bake, while beating the 
wlpites and 3 tbsp. sugar. Top the pie, return to oven to 
brown. This Avill make 1 very large or 2 small pies. 

— Mrs. L. Scharstein. 



Lemcn Sponge Pie 

1 cup sugar, 1 lemon ( grate entirely), 1' tbsp. flour, 
heaping, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 cup sweet milk and 2 eggs. 

Cream butter and sugar, add lemon and well-beaten 
yolks, then the flour and milk alternately, lastly, the 
stiffly-beaten whites of the eggs folded in. Bake in the 
crust in a slow oven. — Mrs. M. E. Kurts. 

^ 165 



Commercial Trust 
and Savings Bank 

AT FOUNTAIN SQUARE AND DAVIS STREET 

^vanston 



CAPITAL AND SURPLUS 

$250,000 



We pay 3 per cent on sa\)ings accounts 



166 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Lemon Prune Pie 

1 cup cold water, 1 cup sugar, 2 tbsp. cornstarch, li/^ 
cups cooked prunes (pitted), 2 eggs, i/4 tsp. salt, 4 tbsp. 
lemon juice, grated lemond rind, 6 tbsp. sugar. Line a 
medium-sized plate with pastry having a fluted edge, 
and bake. Place cornstarch, salt, 1 cup of sugar, and 
the water, in a double boiler and cook 20 minutes. Add 
carefully, stirring constantly, the egg yolks slightly 
beaten, and cook until very thick. Remove from the 
fire, add the lemon juice, and grated rind of 1 lemon. 
Set aside to cool. When cold, pour over the prunes and 
top with meringue made from the egg whites and the 
6 tbsps. of sugar. Place in a slow oven to set and brown. 

— Miss Lillian Cooley. 



Martha Washington Pie 

(Serves 10 people.) 

3 eggs well-beaten, 1 cup sugar, li/^ cup flour, 2 tbsp. 
water, 1 heaping tsp. baking powder. 

Bake in tins, split while warm and fill with the fol- 
lowing : 

Filling 

1 cup milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 tbsp. cornstarch 
dissolved in a little milk, small piece of butter. 
Cook until thick and put between layers. 

— Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 
167 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Mock Cherry Pie 

1 lar^e cup cranberries, 'V4 cup raisins, 1 eup sucjar, 
l.tbsp. flour, 1/2 ^^P boiling water, pinch of, salt, 1 
dessert spoon vanilla. Cut up the cranberries and 
raisins, mix with sugar and flour, and pour boiling water 
over all. Add vanilla. — Mrs. Jas. C. Carter. 



Nut-mince Pie 

1 cup walnuts chopped fine, 2 cups apples, 1 cup 
seeded raisins, II/2 cup sugar, 1 tsp. allspice, cinnamon 
and cloves, % tsp. salt, i/^ cup of vinegar mixed with 1/2 
cup of water. — Mrs. W. L. Severance. 



Nut Mince Pie 

1 cup nut meats chopped fine, 2 cups chopped apple, 
1 cup raisins, 14 cup sugar, 14 tsp. each of cinnamon, 
cloves and salt, 1 large tbsp. vinegar, I/2 cup fruit juice 
(or water), 1 tbsp. flour, or cornstarch. 

— Mrs. C. H. Hathawav. 



Rhubarb Pie 

Cut 2 lbs. of rhubarb into small pieces ; if it is young 
and tender, do not remove skin. Line a pastry tin with 
rich crust ; sprinkle a little flour and sugar in the bottom. 
Fill in the rhubarb, I/2 cup nut meats, 1 cup sugar and 
a little flour over the top. Add 1 tsp. of water. Cover 
with a t^ crust and bake slowly for about % of an 
hour. Makes 2 small pies. — A. C. K. 

168 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Rhubarb Pie 

1 cup rhubarl), juice of 1 lemdn, 1 cup sugar, butter 
size of an egg, 1 cup chopped raisins, 1 egg. 
Mix and bake with upper and lower crusts. 

—Mrs. C. M. Parrish. 



Cream Rhubarb Pie 

11/2 cups cooked rhubarb, 2 egg j^olks, 1 cup sugar, 2 
tbsp. cornstarch. 

Beat egg yolks and add to rhubarb. Mix sug^r and 
corn starch and add to egg mixture and cook until. thick. 
Add large piece of butter and fill a pie crust already 
baked. 

Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth. Add 2 tbsp. 
of sugar. Spread over pie and- brown. 

—Mrs. S. N. Gustafson. 

Southern Molasses Pie 

1 cup molasses, i/^ cup sugar, 1 tbsp. butter boiled 
until it thickens, 2 eggs well beaten. Pour syrup on 
eggs beating vigorously and continually. Flavor. Care- 
fully pour in crust and bake.^-Mrs. C. H. Hatha«*s^ay. 



' South Sea Pie 

1/2 cup sugar, 4 bananas put through ricer. Beat 
together % hour. When time to serve, pour into a 
pastry shell and cover top with whipped cream. Is also 
very good served with whipped cream withqnt the pastry 



qnt 



shell. — Mrs. G. W. Heavener. 

169 

9 



qr, 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

y Squash Pie 

1 cup squash, 3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, i tsp. ginger, i/4 
tsp. salt, 1 tsp. cinnamon, butter size of a small egg, 1 
cup milk. Beat the eggs, mix with other ingi^edients, 
and bake slowly. — Mrs. A. A. Kendall. 



Strawberry Pie 

Bake a bottom crust. Sugar berries and keep on ice 
for a short time. Whip 1/2 pt. cream until thick. Add 
2 tbsp. sugar. Add berries to crust and spread cream 
over top and keep cold until ready to serve. 

— Mrs.U. G. Buck. 



Swiss Pie 

1 pint milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 heaping tbsp. flour, 4 
eggs, 1 tsp. almond extract, 1 lb. almonds (blanched, 
roasted and browned), 1 cup thick cream, 10 candied 
cherries. Put milk in double boiler and when it gets hot, 
add to it one-half the sugar mixed with the flour. Beat 
the eggs and add to the rest of the sugar. Cook the 
milk mixture for 10 minutes, then add the egg mixture, 
stirring constantly. When quite thick, remove from 
fire and let cool. Then add almond extract and almonds, 
reserving 2 tbsp. Let stand until cold and fill pastry 
shell. Whip cream until very stiff and cover pie. 
SprinkJ.e with ajmonds, and with a pastry tube fancy 
border around th^ edges. Use cherries around the border. 
Kep in cool place until ready to serve. 

*^ —Mrs. E. W. Keast. 

170 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Syrup Pie 

1 cup syrup, 1 tbsp. sugar, 2 eggs and a small piece 
of butter. 

Beat eggs well, mix in syrup, sugar and butter. Bake 
in bottom crust. Top with white of eggs and sugar. 

—Mrs. W. F. Struebing. 



in 



GARAGES 

of Character and Dignity 

If you own a car or if you contemplate buying one, 
you certainly want a BETTER GARAGE. The life and 
looks of your car depend largely on its being properly 
housed in a garage where it can be properly cared for 
and away from weather conditions when not in actual 
service. .BETTER GARAGES SUPPLY THIS NEED. 

Cairo Building Material Co. 

Phones: Evanston 7614-4255 
1230 LEO\ PLACE, Evanston, Illinois 



Office: Main 2722 Works: Boulevard 2120 

Federal Iron Works 

Structural and Architectural Iron 

807 Stock Exchange Building 
30 N. La Salle Street 
CHICAGO 

Works: 3545-55 Shields Avenue, Chicago 

172 



Soups 



173 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



SOUPS 



Cream of Asparagus Soup. 

1 can or 1 bunch asparagus, 1 qt. milk, 1 pt. water, 
1 egg or 1/2 pint cream, 1 slice onion, 2 tbsp. Snowdrift, 
3 tbsp. flour, 1 tsp. salt, dash cayenne. 

Peel the asparagus, cut it into dice and put it over 
the fire in the water; when tender, press through 'a 
colander. Add the cayenne and onion and put it aside 
to reheat. Eub together the Snowdrift and flour; add 
them to the heated milk, stir until it just reaches the 
boiling point and add the salt. Take from the fire, 
add the asparagus liquor, the yolk of the egg, beaten, 
and pour slowly into the tureen over the well-beaten 
white of the egg or the cream whipped stiff. This soup 
cannot be reheated after mixing. 



Cream of Celery Soup 

3 stalks celery, 3 cups milk, 1 slice onion, 1 tsp. salt, 
2 tbsp. butter, 2 tbsp. flour, ^4 tsp. pepper, 1 cup cream. 
Break celery into 1 inch pieces and pound in a mortar. 
Cook in double boiler with onion and milk 20 minutes. 
Remove onion. Heat the butter, add flour and season- 
ings. Add first % cup and gradually the rest of the 
celery broth, and the cream. Cook until smooth and 
slightly thickened and serve at once. 

— ^IMrs. J. L. Denman. 

175 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Cream of Com Soup 

1 pint grated green corn or 1 can corn, 1 quart milk 
or stock, 1 pint cold water, II/2 cups medium white sauce, 
1 slice of onion, salt and pepper to taste. 

Cook the corn in the water 30 minutes stirring 
frequently ; press through a colander. To the liquid add 
the cream sauce, stock or milk and seasonings. Serve 
with croutons. —Mrs. Maude Scanlan. 



Cream of Corn Soup 

y2 can corn, chopped fine, 1 tbsp. butter, 2 tbsp. 
floui*, 1 quart milk, i/^ cup cream. 

Mix together butter and flour, add milk and let 
boil; add corn, salt and pepper (or a little kitchen 
bouquet if liked), just before serving add i/^ cup 
whipped cream. — Mrs. W. A. Brodkorb. 



Mrs. B's Chowder 

Boil 4 or 5 cups potatoes cut in cubes, in salted water. 
Cut 1 pound lean salt pork in small pieces and fry until 
brown. Take pieces of pork from fat and add' to drained 
potatoes, 1 medium-sized onion, fried in the pork fat but 
not too brown ; add as much flour as fat will take, add 
1 pint milk, or more if needed, to make a cream sauce. 
Season with salt and pepper. Add 1 large can of fish 
flakes to this mixture, then the pork and potatoes. 

Good served with toast. 

— Mrs. W. F. Brugman. 

176 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Potato Chowder 

6 potatoes cubed, 3 medium-sized onions, sliced fine, 
1 slice of salt pork, cubed and fried slowly until a light 
brown ; add potatoes, onion, salt and pepper. Cover 
Avith water and simmer 30 minutes. Add 4 cups of milk 
and stir in 1 tbsp. flour wet with some of the milk. Boil 
again and serve.- - - 

For other chowder add clam, oyster, tomato, fish, 
or tuna, just before the milk. 

— Mi;s. H. G. Smith. 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

(That will not curdle.) 

11/2 cups canned tomatoes, 2 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. corn- 
starch, speck of sugar, 1 slice of onion, ly^ cups milk, 
salt to taste. 

Cook onion with the tomatoes 10 minutes and I'ub 
through strainer. Make tomato sauce, using the butter, 
cornstarch, tomato stock and seasonings. Allow this mix- 
ture to become vei^y cold. When ready to serve, combine 
it with the milk which should be cold. Heat in double 
boiler and serve. This will not curdle if method is fol- 
lowed. — Mrs. H. R. Putnam. 

Canned Tomato Soup 

14 quarts tomatoes, 14 stalks celery, 6 bay leaves, 21 
cloves, 7 onions. Boil together until tender and strain. 

Add 14 tbsp. butter, 14 tbsp. flour, 8 tbsp. salt, 12 
tbsp. sugar, 1 tsp. paprika. Let boil a few minutes, pour 
into glass jars and seal. — Mrs. U. G. Buck. 

177 



HESS BROS. CO. 

(Not Inc.) 
CtT STOAE CONTRACTORS 

Office and Yards: 716 PITNER AA'ENUE 

Phone Evanston 4191 Evanston, 111. 

Let Us Call for Your Laundry 

Evanston Hand Laundry 

David Tapper, Proprietor 

1029-1031 CHICAGO AVEXl'E Evanston, 111. 

Telephone 756 

Phone 4400 

G. F. KNIGHT 

GENERAL CARPENTER, CONTRACTOR 
AND BUILDER 

535 JUDSON AVE. EVANSTON, ILL. 



We Specialize in 

Buick and Cadillac Cars and General Overhauling^. 

Accessories, Cylinder Regrinding, Battery Service, Michelin 

and Converse Cord Tires, Michelin Ring-shaped Tubes 

Welding and Brazing 

CENTRAL PARK GARAGE 

2822 CENTRAL .STREET Evanston, III. 

Telephone 785 
ARTHUR HALLSTROM PHILIP G. SCULL 

178 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Cream Tomato Soup 

1 pint stewed tomatoes, rubbed through a strainer 
to remove seeds and skins. Return to stove and add i/4 
tsp. soda. 11/2 pints milk and a pinch of soda, heated. 
Pour in the tomatoes, season with salt, pepper and but- 
ter, bring to the boiling point and serve at once. 

—Mrs. U. G. Buck. 

Lima Bean Soup 

Soak 1 cup lima beans over night, cook in 3 cups 
of water until soft, mash through a strainer, add 1 
onion, 1 stalk of celery and 1 carrot cut into fine 
pieces, and 2 tablespoons butter. Cook 6 minutes 
without browning. Add % tbsp. flour, stir well, and 
add to the first mixture. Add 2 cups of hot milk, 
seasoned with salt and pepper, and 3 tbsp. of catsup. 

— Mrs. L. Matthews. 

Lobster Soup 
1 small can lobster, 1 quart hot water. Boil until soft. 
Strain through a colander ; add 1 quart milk ; season with 
butter, salt and pepper. Serve hot. 

—Mrs. U. G. Buck. 

Potato Sfoup 

Cook 3 potatoes, 1 onion, and 2 stalks of celery in 
salted water. When soft, mash and add 2 tbsp. of butter, 
1 tbsp. of flour; mix the flour in well and add 2 or 3 
cups of milk. Season with salt and pepper. Let come 
to a boil and serve at once. Serves 6 persons. 

— Mrs. C. Johnson. 
179 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Scotch Broth 

1 medium-sized soup bone, 1 cup yellow peas and 
barley, % cup each carrot, parsnip, turnip and cabbage, 
chopped fine, 1 leek or onion, sprig of parsley, water, 
salt. 

Boil the soup bone, peas, barley and salt for an hour, 
add the other vegetables and cook an hour longer. A 
tomato may be added if liked. 

—Mrs. Thomas Savage. 



Soup 

1 lb. boiling beef, 1 onion sliced fine, 1 can tomatoes, 
celery, 1 cup barley, salt and pepper to taste. 

Boil slowly 3 hours. — Mrs. I. Mogren. 



Spinach Soup 

4 tbsp. butter, 3 tbsp. flour, 1 pint milk, 1 pint finely 
chopped cooked spinach and juice, salt and pepper. . 

Melt butter, add flour and stir until well-blended; 
add the milk; continue stirring until thick, then add the 
spinach, juice and seasoning. Cook for several minutes. 
The well-beaten yolk of an egg may be added just before 
serving if desired. — Mrs. Milton F. Collion. 



», .V- 



Vegetable Goulash 

1 tbsp. butter, 1 cup cheese, 1 can tomato soup,- 1 can 
corn, 2 pimentos, 1 egg, y^ tsp. salt, i^ tsp. paprika: 

Serve on toast with or without a rub of garlic. Will 
serve 12 persons. — Mrs. Warren Edwards. 

ISO 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Wartime Cream of Tomato Soup 

1 quart tomatoes, 1 small onion, 1 small stalk of 
celery, 1 tsp. sugar, a few pepper corns, 1 quart milk, 14 
tsp. soda, 1 tbsp. butter, 2 cups cooked oatmeal, salt. 

Cook together tomatoes, onion, celery, sugar and 
pepper corns. Rub through a sieve ; heat again to boiling 
point and add soda, stir, and skim. Scald the milk, add 
to the tomato stock, stirring constantly, add salt and 
butter ; just before serving add the cooked oatmeal. Cook 
in double boiler. — Mrs. C. A. Klein. 



181 



Meats and Poultry 



183 



SPECIAL NOTICE 
FOR FANCY DINNER PARTIES 

BEEF TENDERLOINS 

FANCY SQUABS CROWN OF LAMB 

FANCY CHICKEN BREASTS 

Put up in any style 

FANCY POULTRY, BUTTER AND EGGS 

We also handle a complete line of STAPLE GOODS 

SEE 

702 Main Street 

THE HOUSE OF QUALITY 

Phone 777-78-79 EVANSTON 



Phone Evanston 2177 

Fred W. Hedblom 

SHEET METAL WORK 

912 Crain Street 
Evanston, 111. 

Avoid delay by placing your orders early for 

Refrigerator and Furnace repairs. 
We repair Gutters, Downspouts and Chimneys. 



184 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



MEATS AND POULTRY 



Beef Loaf 

■I I " ' ; 

2 lbs. beef, 1 lb. pork, chopped, 8 crackers, powdered, 
V2 ^^^P niilk, 1 e»^, salt and pepper to taste. 

Mix thoroughly, shape in baking pan, sprinkle with 
cracker crumbs, place 2 strips ,0;f .bacon on. .. top. Put 
enough water in pan to bake nicely ; let it simmer low to 
make brown gravy. For f^pecial occasions, place 3 hard- 
boiled eggs in the center of loaf before putting in oven. 

— Mrs. Ada Saxer, Si. Louis, Mo. 

Beef Loaf 

' To 1 pound ground round steak, 1 shredded wheat 
biscuit 'cn-umbled fine, 1 egg, 1/2 cup milk, 1/0 tsp. poultry 
dressing, salt and pepper. Mix together, form in roll and 
bake from %^ to 1 hour slowly. When made larger a 
row of hard-boiled eggs may be placed through the 
center before baking. — Mrs. N. H. By am. 

Scalloped Brains 

Soak calves brains in cold water 1 hour. Parboil in 
salted water 10 minutes, remove the skins. Butter bak- 
ing dish, put in a layer of the brains, sliced, then a 
laj^er of bread crumbs, sprinkle with salt and popper, 
dot with butter. Continue until your dish is nearlyfull. 
Cover with milk and bake;% hour in moderate oven^ 

— Mrs. C. E. Johnson. 

. 185 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Chili Con Came 

1 onion, 1 quart tomatoes, 3 peppers (small, and 
chopped fine), 1 lb. ground round steak, 1 can kidney 
beans or Mexican Chili beans. 

Chop onion very fine and brown ; add meat and 
brown. Stir into this 1 quart tomatoes, the beans and 
the peppers. Season A\dth salt, pepper and 2 tsp. Chili 
powder. Cook slowly until the peppers are well done 
and the desired thickness is obtained. 

—Mrs. H. W. Corke. 



Chili Con Carne 

Brown 1 onion in hot lard, add 1 lb. hamburg steak ; 
brown ; then add 1 pint tomatoes, 1 tsp. salt, % l^p. Chili 
powder, 1 cup water; simmer 1 hour and add 1 can 
kidney beans. Simmer 1 hour or more. 

— Mrs. M. L. Wigginton. 



Chili Con Carne 

1 lb. round steak ground, 1 can kidney beans or 
macaroni, 1 can Campbell's Tomato Soup, 3 medium- 
sized onions, 2 tbsp. bacon drippings. Put drippings in 
a frying pan, add sliced onions and meat, and fry until 
done. Heat tomato soup and beans, and when meat 
is done, combine, and season to taste. 

— Mrs. Andrew Leaf. 

186 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

"Chili" Kidney Beans and Hamburg 

Fry 1 large onion in 2 tbsp. crisco and butter. Make 
1 lb. hamburg steak into small flat cakes, roll in flour 
and brown in skillet with onions, putting onions to one 
side. Add 1 tbsp. flour and 1 pint water, cook untiL 
gravy is thick, add 1 can kidney beans, cooking slowly 
1/2 hour ; add 1 tsp. Chili powder, cook 10 minutes. Serve 
hot. — Mrs. M. V. Smurr. 



Chop Suey 

% pound veal, % pound pork, % pound beef, 4 large 
onions, 2 stalks celery, 2 cups water, 3 tbsp. molasses, 3 
tbsp. Oriental Sho You Sauce. 

Cut meat fine and fry until very brown; add molas- 
ses and Sho You sauce. Dice onions and celery and 
place with meat in deep kettle, add water and cook for % 
hour. Season to taste and thicken a very little with 
flour. Serve with boiled rice. 



Boiled Rice for Ch/op Suey 

Cook the rice until tender in salted water. Drain 
through a colander and let cold water run on it. Re- 
heat in double boiler or the oven. 

Mrs. Elmer A. Johnson. 
187 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Chop Suey 

1 pound sausage and hamburg, 1 small package 
s])aghetti, 6 small onions, 1 pint tomatoes, 1 tbsp. sugar, 
butter. 

Slice onions and fry in butter until brown ; cook 
spaghetti until tender. Mix all together and cook 10 
minutes. — Mrs. C. M. Parrish. 



Chop Suey ^ 

lYo pounds beef, I/2 pound pork, simmer % hour in 
1 "tbsp. drippings, add 1 tbsp. molasses, 1 tsp. salt and 
simmer 20 minutes longer. Cook II/2 cups chopped 
celery and IV2 cups chopped onion till tender; add to the 
meat and c,ook 15 minutes. Serve with steamed rice. 

. —Mrs. U. -G. Buck. 



Chop Suey 

y2 lb. lean beef, ^2 lb. lean pork, 3 cups celery, 2 
cups onion, 1 tbsp. fat, 1 thsj). sugar, 2 tbsp. Chop Suey 
sauce, (or more), 1 tbsp. cornstarch, 14 tsp. salt, dash 
of black pepper. 

Heat fat in large skillet. Add meat, cut fine. Stir 
occasionally and let fry until nearly done.. Add celery 
and onion, cut into small bits; also about a cup of water, 
chop suey -sauce, sugar, salt and pepper. Cook 15 min- 
utes with coA^er, mix coi'nstarch in cold water and add, 
cooking until done. Enough for 4. Serve with rice, 
boiled .or steamed. — Mrs. Frank Camp. 

188 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Creamed Bacon 

(Serve with corn bread.) 

l^ lb" bacon — slices % inch thick, 1 quart milk, 2 
tbsp. flonr. 

Soak bacon in milk for several hours. When ready 
to use, drain, dip slices of bacon in flour and fry slowly. 
Remove from pan ; add flour and. milk in which bacon 
was soaked to m^e a thick gravy. Pour gravy oevr 
bacon and serve with corn bread or muffins. Enough 
for 4. A good luncheon or supper dish. 

— Mrs. Frank Camp. 



Curried Lamb 

Put 4 cups lamb, cut in small pijiees,.in a kettle; cover 
with cold water and bring to the boiling point ; pour off 
the water and rinse the meat in cold water. Return to 
kettle and add 1 quart boiling water, 1 large onion, 1 
stalk celery, 3 sprigs thyme, 3 sprigs. paisley. Simmer 
slowly until meat is tender; remove meat and strain the 
liquor. 

Melt 2 tbsp. butter, add 2 tbsp. flour and 1 tsp. 
curry powder, salt, pepper, and strained liquor. Cook 
3 minutes, add meat, reheat and serve. Garnish with 
boiled rice. — Mrs. C. E. Johnson. 



189 



Telephone Franklin 678 



Phillips, Getschow Co. 

ENGINEERS & CONTKACTOKS 



Heating, Ventilating, Power 



128-130 W. Kinzie Street 
CHICAGO 



Phone 2381 



Delaney & Doran 

COFFEES, TEAS 

EXTRACTS, SPICES 



510 MEACHAM AVENUE 
PARK RIDGE, ILL. 

Regular Deliveries Made Sent Anywhere 

to All North Shore Towns by 

Auto Trucks Parcel Post 



190 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Deviled Steak 

1 flank steak, 1 large onion, 2 tbsp. butter, 2 tbsp. 
flour, Yg tsp. paprika, 1 tsp. each mustard, salt and 
pepper, 3 tbsp. vinegar, 2 cups hot water. 

Melt butter in frying pan and brown onion, remove 
onion, cut the steak in pieces, dredge lightly with flour 
and fry in the butter until brown ; add the other in- 
gredients and 2 cups hot water. Cover closely and sim- 
mer until meat is tender, about an hour. Serve on hot 
platter and garnish with fried potatoes. Will serve 
6 people. — Mrs. C. E. Johnson. 



Flank Steak Roast 

About 2 lb. flank steak, pound well. Place in roaster. 
Cover with 1 can small green peas, 1 can tomatoes, 1 
finely-chopped onion, season to .taste. Bake slowly until 
steak is tender. — Mrs. James H. Morey. 



Baked Ham 

Parboil about I/2 hour, remove skin from whole or V2 
ham; place in roasting pan; cover fat part with brown 
sugar and stick in cloves in some simple design. Pour 
around 1/2 cup each of vinegar and water. Roast very 
slowly or at 300 degrees, for 4 or 5 hours until tender. 
Serve hot or cold. Cut in thin slices. 

— A Friend. 

191 



NEICHBOI^HOOD OOOK BOOK 

Ham Loaf 

1 ])ound liam, 2 pounds lean, fresh pork, chopped, 1 
cup milk, 2 eggs, 1 cup bread crumbs, salt and pep])er. 

Mix together and shape in loaf; place in baking pan, 
put bread crumbs on top and pour over it 1 can tomato 
SOU]). Bake 2 hours in slow oven. Chopped onion may 
be added. — ^Irs. W. A. Brodkorl). 

Ham Loaf 

Chop IY2 pounds raw ham, II/2 pounds round steak, 
1/2 pound fresh pork ; mix and add 2 well-beaten eggs 
and 1 cup bread crumbs. Bake 1 hour. Use no season- 
iiig- V2 recipe enough for small family. 

— Mrs. Don Crawford. 

Southern Hash 
^^rown 1 lb. ground round steak in frying pan ; add 
1 large onion, 1 sweet green pepper and 3 .tomatoes, 
chopped. Boil 1 cup rice, and when done add to the 
meat, also 1 egg well-beaten, salt and pepper. 
Place in buttered pan and bake I/2 hour. 

— Mrs. Fred Mumm. 

Head Cheese 

5 lbs. fresh pork shoulder, 4 lbs. veal, salt and spices. 

Cook together, with a veal shank to make sure your 
cheese will stiffen, until meat is well done. When meat 
is cold, cut in small pieces, season with salt and spices. 
Tie meat in towel very tight and place in boiling broth. 
Kemove when meat is thorovighly heated and set in cool 
place with a weight on. — Mrs. C. U. Olson. 

192 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Pilaf of Lamb 

1/2 cup rice, 2 cups cold chopped lamb, 2 tbsp. butter. 

Boil rice in plenty of boiling, salted water, until 
tender. Drain, mix with the finely-chopped lamb, season 
with salt, pepper, celery salt and butter. Return to fire 
and heat through; tuni in a greased tin mould. Place 
in oven 10 minutes or until the Pilaf will keep its form 
when turned out of the mould. Serve with tomato sauce. 

— Mrs. C. B. Coon. 

Meat Loaf 

iy2 pounds round steak, I/2 pound lean veal, % 
pound lean pork ; grind together tAvice. Add 2 eggs well 
beaten and 1 cup of moistened bread crumbs, 1 tsp. salt 
and pepper. Mould in loaf and bake IV2 hours. 

— ^Mrs. C. J. Preston. 

Noodles 

2 well-beaten eggs, % tsp. salt, flour enough to make 
quite stiff. Roll thin, let dry 2 hours. Cut in strips 
and cook with meat or chicken 1 hour. 

— Mrs. Emma Foster. 

Pilaf 

1 11). ground round steak, 1 cup dry rice, 2 cups 
tomato pulp, 1 quart boiling water, 1 chopped onion, 
salt and pepper. 

Mix together, and bake 1 hour. If too drj^ add milk 
a short time before taking from oven. 

— ^IVIrs. S. I. Koogle. 

193 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Pigs in Blanket 

2 lbs. round steak cut in strips about 2 inches wide 
and 4 inches long. Lay a strip of bacon, piece of bread 
and slice of onion on strip of steak and season with 
pepper and salt. Roll up and fasten with toothpick. 

Fry in bacon drippings until thoroughly done. Add 
water and allow to simmer about 1 hr., or until tender. 
Remove meat and thicken with flour, for gravy. 

— Mrs. Andrew Leaf. 



Pork Chops with Apples 

6 pork chops, 3 tbsp. flour, i^ tsp. sage, % tsp. salt, 
2 cups hot water, y^ cup raisins, 3 tart apples, 1 tbsp. 
vinegar, 14 cup brown sugar. 

Sprinkle chops with sage and salt and brown in pan. 
Remove to shallow baking dish. On each chop place 
y<2, an apple, pared, cored and filled with brown sugar. 
Into the fat in pan put flour and salt; bro^vn, adding 
water to make gravy; brings to boil stirring constantly; 
add vinegar and raisins. Pour over chops and bake until 
apples are tender. — ^Alrs. Ed. Holtz. 



Potatoes and Chops 
Peel and slice enough potatoes to nearly fill a casser- 
ole. Cut fine 2 stalks of celery. Place a layer of 
celery in casserole, then a layer of potatoes; continue 
until nearly full. Season, and cover with five or more 
pork chops. When chops are half done, turn. Bake 
slowly. — ^Ii'^- James H. ^lorey. 

194 

V 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Potatoes and Ham 

Cut potatoes in thick slices and lay in buttered 
roaster or casserole. Sprinkle with finely-chopped 
onion, salt, pepper and a little flour ; place over them a 
layer of ham, cut in slices, then another layer of potatoes. 
Nearly cover with milk and bake in a slow oven 1 hour. 

—J. N. W. 



Pot Pie or Dujnplings 

1 egg well-beaten, 1 cup cold water, pinch salt, 2 
tsp. baking powder, flour to make a stiff dough. Stir 
well. Drop into gravy by small spoonfuls. Be sure not 
to crowd too many in a kettle. Cook 8 minutes without 
removing cover, turn over and cook several minutes 
longer. Will serve 6. — Mrs. C. A. Wright. 

Pork Turkeys 

Have the pork chops cut thick and sliced through 
almost to the bone, fill the chop with dressing made as 
for turkey, sew up the top and bake until tender, the 
first half hour quickl}^ then finish slowly. 

— Mrs. N. H. Byam. 

Round Steak with Onions 

Take a thin slice of round steak, season with salt and 
pepper, pound in as much flour as it will hold. Heat a 
generous amount of fat or butter in a frying pan ; brown 
meat well on both sides. Cover closely, let simmer 1 
hour, or until tender. 

195 



WHOLESALE Telephone Evanston 7285 RETAIL 

BOULEVARD FLORISTS 

Joljn F. Broadbeck, Prop. 

CUT FLOWERS AND PLANTS 

600-620 SOUTH BOULEVARD EVANSTON, ILL. 

M. P. II O S E N D A H L 

INTERIOR DECORATOR 

General Painting 

1108 ELl^nVOOD AVENUE 

Telephone 614 EVANSTON, ILL. 

Agent C. & N. W. R. R. Notary Public 

Phone 909 

W. G. NORKETT 

Attorney and Coiinsellor-at-Ijaw 

Real Estate and Loans, Insurance and Investments 

C. & N. W. DEPOT MAIN STREET, Evanston 

C. H. ADAMS & CO. 

ELECTRIC CONTRACTOR 
Rei>airs of household appliances a Specialty 

Vases wired for Electric lights 
1131 EL]\r\VOOD AVENUE Tel. 1268 

C. D. Macpherson C. C. Flinn 

C. D. M A C P H E R S X 

DECORATOR 

1570 SHERMAN AVENUE 

Evanston, 111. 

WE SPECIALIZE IN EVANSTON PROPERTY 

E. E. Stults Realty Co. 

1915 CENTRAL STREET 

Ph. Evanston 8080 



196 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Fry 4 or 5 medium-sized onions sliced fine, in 2 tbsp. 
fat, until flossy and brown. Season with salt and pep- 
per. Place meat on hot platter; cover with the onions. 
Add a few tbsp. water to the gravy in pan. Stir until 
smooth, serve at once. 

— Mrs. H. R. Putnam. 

Round Steak and Potatoes 

Place individual pieces of thick round steak in 
greased casserole. Season with salt, pepper and finely- 
chopped onion ; sprinkle with a little flour. 

Pare medium-sized potatoes and place over meat. 
Pour a can of tomatoes over this and bake in very slow 
oven 2 or 3 hours. — A. C. K. 

Savory Round Steak 

Take a piece of round steak about 1 inch thick, cut in 
pieces and brown well in frying pan. Cover with water 
and simmer for 1 hour. Cook a bunch of carrots and 
6 large onions until almost tender. Place over the 
meat and let simmer for 1^ hours longer. 1 can of 
peas may be added. 

— ^Mrs. Frank Flavelle. 

Spanish Steak 

Take l^/^ pounds of ground round steak and fry 
enough to crumble nicely. Turn in a quart of tomatoes, 
2 medium sized onions, cut fine. Salt and pepper to 
taste and let simmer slowl for 3 hours. 

— Mrs. Clara Smith. 

197 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Sauerkraut and Spare-ribs 

1 can sauerkraut (14 cts.), 2 lbs. spare-ribs. Make 
a mound of the kraut in the center of a covered roaster, 
lay the ribs on this mound ; salt and pepper to taste. Put 
in a hot oven for 20 min., then lower gas to minimum 
and continue to cook for 2 hrs. with no further atten- 
tion. — Mrs. H. S. Camp. 

Fried Sausage Rolls 

Roll thin a rich biscuit dough; cut with a biscuit 
cutter. Fry link sausages ; while hot roll one link in each 
round of dough, pinch the ends together. Bake in 
medium oven. Serve on a hot platter with brown gravy. 

— 'Mrs. Thomas Savage. 

Veal or Beef Birds 

Use veal steak or thin round steak ; cut the meat 
into pieces about 3 bj^ 4 inches, fill wdth dressing used 
for fowls, fold and tie with strings. BrowTi well on both 
sides in lard or mazola, with tiny pieces of onion. Bake 
in oven until tender. — Mrs. N. H. Byam. 

Veal Birds or Mock Chicken 

Cut veal steak into 2 inch squares. Place a small 
piece of salt pork on each piece and roll. Fasten with 
toothpicks. Season and roll in flour; brown well in 
butter and lard. Remove veal from pan and make gravy. 
Put veal in gravy, cover pan closely and bake slowly 1 
to 2 hours. Sprinkle with chopped parsley when serving. 

— Mrs. Hunter Netherv. 
198 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Veal Loaf 

Boil 1 large or 2 small veal shanks until the meat 
falls from the bone. Shred the meat and add 4 hard 
boiled eggs, chopped, and 1 cup cracker crumbs. Season 
with salt and pepper. 

Boil down the liquid to 2 cups or less ; add this to the 
meat mixture. Place in a mould and set on ice until 
cool enough to slice. — Mrs. H. G. Smith. 

Veal Loaf with Muchroom Sauce 

1% pounds veal, li/^ pounds round steak, I/2 inch 
slice salt pork, chopped 3 times, 3 sprigs parsley and a 
small onion chopped fine, 2 eggs well-beaten, 1 cup 
bread crumbs soaked in enough cold water to soften 
crumbs. Seasonings to taste. Bake slowly 2 to 3 hours. 

Mushroom Sauce 

Melt 2 tbsp. butter, add 2 tbsp. flour, the liquid 
drained from 1 small can mushrooms and enough milk 
to make a medium white sauce. Just before serving, 
add the mushrooms chopped fine. Serves 12 people. — 

—Mrs. E. Duble. 

Veal Stew with Dumplings 

Cut into cubes, one pound of boneless veal and fry 
in a hot pan for ten minutes. Turn into a kettle and 
add boiling water to cover, also 3 tbsp. chopped carrots 
and 1 tbsp. chopped onion. Season with salt and pepper 
and cook li^ hours. 20 minutes before serving add 
dumplings. 

199 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Dumplings 

1 cup flour, 4 tsp. baking powder, 14 tsp. salt. Add 
milk enough to make batter the consistency of cookie 
dough. Mix together, break in an egg and beat well. 
Add to the stew one tbsp. at a time and cook 20 minutes 
with cover off for the first 10 minutes, then cover 
tightly for remainder of time. — Mrs. R. Timm. 

Jellied Veal 

Take 2 or 3 pounds of lean veal and 1 pound of lean 
beef, cut in small pieces ; add w^ater and salt. Cook very 
slowly for several hours. Remove all bones and pour 
into mould to cool. It is better to let stand over night. 

— ^Mrs. Thomas Savage. 

' * Baked ' ' Fried Chicken 

Prepare fowl, cut up, wash and dry with towel. Place 
butter and lard in pan, beat 2 eggs until lemon color, 
add % cup sweet cream. Roll cracker crumbs fine, 
season with salt and pepper. Dip chicken in egg, roll 
in cracker mixture, place in pan, add 2 tbsp. water, cover 
and bake 1 hour in moderate oven. Turn chicken when 
in % hour. — ^Mrs. Geo. Tyson. 

Smothered Chicken 
Split chicken down the back as for boiling or cut up 
as for frying, wash well, wipe dry. Place in baking pan ; 
pour over 2 cups boiling water in w^hich 2 tbsp. butter 
has been dissolved ; cover tightly. Cook slowly % hour, 
baste plentifully, cover again for 20 minutes. Baste 
again twice, 15 minutes apart, the last time with a tbsp. 
of butter ; bake 10 minutes longer, or until tender. 

200 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK - 

Transfer chicken to a hot dish, thicken gravy with a 
tbsp. of browned flour (wet in a little cold water), salt 
and pepper to taste, boil up once ; pour a cupful over the 
chicken, the rest in gravy boat. 

— ^Mrs. Florence 0. Baulch. 

Chicken Mousse 

1 cup chopped chicken, 1 tsp. salt, 1 tbsp. chopped 
parsley, I/2 cup chopped celery, 14 ^up blanched almonds, 
1 cup whipped cream, 1 cup boiling water or chicken 
stock, 2 envelopes gelatine (Knox or Minute), 14 cup cold 
water. ' 

Soak gelatine in cold water 20 min. Add the boilng 
water or stock, stirring constantly. Mix with other 
ingredients. Fold in the whipped cream. Serve with 
nut bread sandwiches. — Mrs. H. B. Judson. 

Turkey Dressing 

2 quarts stale bread crumbled fine, 2 tbsp. salt, 1 tsp/ 
pepper, 2 tbsp. powdered summer savory, 2 tbsp. minced 
parsley, 1 tbsp. powdered sage, 1 cup butter, rubbed 
through the crumbs. 

This dressing becomes moist enough with the juice 
of the turkey while roasting. A little onion may be 
added. — ^Mrs. I. L. Harvey. 



201 




LACK OF 

Iodine in food and drinking water is 
recognized as one of the chief causes 
of goitre. Recent investigations in 
the Bureau of Fisheries Laboratory 
by Dr. Donald K. Tressler show that 
Oysters, Clams, Lobsters and marine 
fish are unusually rich in iodine containing from 50 to 
200 times as much iodine as beefsteek or milk. 
The eating of ocean fish and seafood two or three times 
weekly is recommended in sections where goitre is 
prevalent, especially in the cases of young girls who are 
particularly susceptible to thyroid disorders. 
Write U. S. Bureau of Fisheries, Washington, D. C, for 
full report. 

Booth Fisheries Company 

Telephone 2555 1557 Sh«rman Ave. 

EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 



The Community Kitchen 

1519 CHICAGO AVE. 512 MAIN STJIEET 

Telephone 8300 Telephone 9323 

HOME COOKED FOODS 
ICE CREAM AND ICES 

China and Silver to Rent 



GROCERY & MARKET 

625 MADISON STREET 

First Class Groceries and Fancy Meats 

Your Patronage Solicited 
We Deliver — Phone Orders Promptly Attended to 

Phone Evanston 750 EVANSTON, ILL. 

E. O. KAUL 



202 



Pish and Oysters 



203 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



FISH AND OYSTERS 



Baked Fish 

Bone and cut in individual pieces. Dip in evapo- 
rated milk which has been salted, then in fine bread 
crumbs. Oil pan with cooking oil, place fish in pan, 
squeeze juice of lemon over fish, also a little oil, salt and 
pepper. Bake 10 minutes in a very hot oven. 

— Mrs. J. W. Kassel. 



Stuffed Baked Trout or White Fish 

Bone a 6 pound fish, remove the fin on center back 
and sew up opening. Salt, pepper and butter the fish 
and stuff with dressing. 



Dressing for Fish 

Cut or crumble a small loaf of bread, season with 
salt and pepper, dice 6 slices of bacon and fry almost 
crisp, add this with the drippings to the bread, beat 1 
e^g and mix all thoroughly. Place fish on platter in 
roaster, putting a little Avater under platter. Bake in hot 
oven % to 1 hour. Serve with white sauce and chopped 
parsley. — ^Mrs. J, W. Kassel. 

205 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Fish Balls 

To each cup of haddie add 2 cups of mashed potatoes, 
1 egg, 1 tsp. butter, 1 small tsp. pepper. Chop haddie 
very fine. Mash and beat potatoes until very light. Add 
haddie and butter, and beat again, adding the beaten 
egg last. Form into balls and fry in hot lard 1 minute. 



Boiled White Fish 

Wash well in cold water, wipe carefully and rub with 
salt. Heat 2 quarts water ; add l^ cup vinegar, 6 cloves, 
6 pepper corns and 1 bay leaf. Wrap the fish in a thin 
cloth and place in boiling liquid. Cook 10 minutes to 
each pound of fish, remove carefully and serve with 
cream sauce. Garnish with parsley. 

—Mrs. U. G. Buck. 



Fish Croquettes 

2 cups chopped, cooked fish, 2 tbsp. butter, 2 tbsp. 
flour, 1 tbsp. parsley, dash of paprika, yolks of 2 eggs, 
salt, pepper, milk. 

Rub flour and butter together on fire until smooth; 
add scalded milk and stir until it thickens ; add the egg 
yolks beaten until light. Take from fire and mix gently 
with fish, add seasonings and let cool. Form into cro- 
quettes, roll in egg and bread crumbs and fry in deep 
fat. —Mrs. C. B. Coon. 

206 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

B.aked Halibut with Dressing 

2 halibut, steaks cut li/^ inches thick. 

Lay thin slices of salt pork in baking pan ; place one 
of steaks upon pork, cover with dressing and put other 
steak on top, laying sliced of salt pork on it. Bake 35 
to 40 minutes, basting 3 or 4 times with liquid in pan 
and with butter melted in hot water. About 10 minutes 
before fish is done, cover with remainder of dressing or 
with buttered crumbs. 

Dressing for Fish 

1/6 loaf bread, crumbed, 1 tbsp. parsley, chopped, 2 
tbsp. onion, chopped, i^ tsp. salt, 14 tsp. pepper, 3 tbsp. 
butter, melted. 

Mix in the order given. 1 tbsp. each of chopped 
capers and pickles are often used. 

— Mrs. J. D. Kindig. 

Finnan Haddie 

Skin fish and soak over night in cold water; drain 
well. Heat 1 tbsp. butter and 1 cup milk, add fish. 
Cover and cook slowly y^ hour. Serve with the juice 
poured over it. — Mrs. U. 0. Buck. 

Creamed 

To each cup of haddie (cut in small pieces), allow 
1% cups of milk, 2 tbsp. of butter, 1 tbsp. flour, I/2 tsp. 
pepper. Mix the pepper with the flour in a sauce pan 
with the butter and cook until smooth. Add the hot 
milk and haddie and cook 5 minutes. Salt to taste. 

207 



Phone Evanston 1512 Work Called For and Delivered 

PUMPIAN'S FUR SHOP 

DRESSMAKING 

Cleaningr, Pressinju: and Rcmodeliniir 
749 CUSTER AVENUE Evanston, 111. 

DR. M'GOWN 

OPTOMETRIST AND OPTICIAN 

l^yes Tested and Broken Lenses Duplicated 

The Only Grinding Plant in I^vanston 

810 DAVIS STREET Evanston 5559 

OPTICIAN NOP 

J. H. MOREY Shop 

Res. 1129 Main St. 1324 Ashland Ave. 

Phone 2281 Phone 72 34 

MOREY BROS 

DECORATORS 

PAINTING AND PAPERHANGING 
EVANSTON, ILL. 

DRY CLEANING 

Phone 7800 

EVANSTON CLEANSERS 

Visit Our Modern Plant 
1205 CHICAGO AVENUE 

Phones Evanston 1534, 318 6-R 

Anderson Transfer Co. 

BAGGAGE — EXPRESSING — MOVING 
Office: 1109 SHERMAN AVENUE 

Daily trips to Chicago EVANSTON, ILL. 

208 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Finnan Haddie — Baked 

Place fish in pan on stove and cover with water. Al- 
low water to come to a boil. Turn off water and remove 
skin. Place fish in the oven and cook slowly 20 minutes. 
Baste occasionally with butter and cream. 



Mock Oyster Loaf 

2 cans of salmon, 1 can of corn, 2 eggs, salt and 
pepper, and enough cracker crumbs to stiffen. Make 
into a loaf and bake in a moderate oven. 

—Mrs. W. M. Hofstetter. 



Scalloped Oysters 

Butter pan thickly and add a little milk. Drain 
oysters and put a layer in bottom of pan, then a scant 
layer of cracker crumbs. Continue until pan is filled. 
Sprinkle salt, pepper and pieces of butter on each layer. 
Add milk enough to nearly cover and bake slowly. 

— Mrs. J. W. Kassel, 



Little Pigs in Blanket 

Season large oysters with salt and pepper. Wrap 
each oyster in bacon and fasten with tooth pick. Cook 
in hot frying pan just enough to crisp bacon. Serve 
on thin slices of toast. — ^Mrs. I. Mogren. 

209 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Salmon Croquettes 

1 can of salmon, 1 tbsp. melted butter, yolks of 2 
hard boiled eggs, 1 tbsp. lemon juice, % slice of stale 
bread (crumbed), i/2 tbsp. Anchovy sauce, pinch of 
pepper, 1^4 tsp. salt, nutmeg to taste. Mince the salmon 
fine and powder the yolks of eggs; work them in 
together with lemon juice, bread crumbs. Anchovy sauce, 
salt, pepper and nutmeg. Make into little rolls, dip in 
beaten egg, roll in cracker crumbs or dust, and fry in 
hot drippings. Serve dry and hot and garnish with 
water cress. 



Salmon Loaves 

Use 1 roll for each person, cut off the tops of rolls, 
scoop out the crumbs, brush inside and outside with 
melted butter and put in a hot oven until they are a 
delicate brown. 

Make a creamed salmon with chopped parsley and the 
whites of hard-boiled eggs in it. Heat the cases, fill with 
the creamed salmon, cover and serve. 



Steamed Salmon Loaf 

2 cans salmon boned and flaked, 2 cups dry bread 
crumbs, 1 tsp. salt, i/4 tsp. pepper, 2 tsp. baking powder, 
3 eggs or 6 yolks, I/2 lemon or 2 tbsp. vinegar. 

Mix together, form in loaf, add % cup water and 
steam 1 hour. Sei-ve with tomato sauce. 

— ^Mrs, C. M. Parrish. 
210 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Salmon Patties 

1 large can salmon, 1 large egg, I/2 cnp flonr, salt 
and pepper to taste. 

Beat egg well; add to salmon. Stir in flour and 
seasoning. Drop by spoonfuls into a skillet of hot fat 
and fry brown. — Mrs. W. E. Hosier. 



Salmon Patties 

1 cup salmon, picked apart and bones removed. 2 
eggs beaten very light. Mix eggs with salmon then add 
V2 ^up thick sweet cream and % tsp. salt. Fill egg 
poachers with salmon and steam 10 minutes. One can 
of salmon will make 10 patties. 

— Mrs. W. Severance. 



Scalloped Salmon 

1 can salmon, 1 cup of White Sauce, 5 or 6 soda 
crackers. Pick salmon over, remove skin, bones and oil ; 
flake fish with a fork. Take a medium-sized agate dish, 
place a layer of salmon, a layer of sauce, a layer of 
crackers, another of salmon, and so on, continuing until 
the fish is all used. Bake in hot oven until brown. 

WHITE SAUCE :— 2 tbsp. flour, 2 tbsp. butter, 1 
cup hot milk, 14 tsp. salt, pinch of pepper. Melt butter 
in sauce pan until it bubbles; add the flour, salt, and 
pepper; mix until smooth, then pour the hot milk in 
gradually, stirring and beating each time. Cook until 
it thickens. 

211 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Scalloped Salmon 
Drain and flake 1 can salmon. Mix soft with milk. 
Make a cream dressing of 1 cup milk, 1 large tbsp. 
butter, 2 tbsp. flour and a little salt. Cook until thick 
like cream, mix with the salmon. Bake in layers, alter- 
nating with cooked spaghetti. Cover with powdered 
crackers. — Mrs. U. G. Buck. 

Salmon a la Waldorf 
Drain, bone and flake 1 can salmon. Butter a deep 
dish, place a layer of fish in the l)ottom, then a layer 
of cold sliced boiled potatoes. Sprinkle with salt, pep- 
per, onion and minced parsley. Continue in this way 
until materials are used ; place bits of butter on top and 
pour 5 or 6 tbsp. cream or milk over all. Bake in a 
hot oven for 10 minutes. 

—Mrs. H. M. Bannister. 

Fresh Shrimp Cocktail 
1 pound fresh shrimp, boiled in salt water 10 or 15 
minutes. Let cool in the water, then remove shells and 
put shrimps in bowl. Take I/2 cup finely chopped celery, 
juice of 1 lemon, juice of 1 lime, 1 tsp. horseradish, 2 
tsp. sugar; mix together. Place a piece of lettuce in 
bottom of cocktail glasses, put in shrimp and pour the 
sauce over. Will serve 10 people. 

—Mrs. C. 0. Swift. 

Tuna or Salmon Loaf 

1 can salmon or tuna, % cup bread crumbs, % cup 
sweet cream, 3 eggs, salt and pepper. 
Mix together and ste^m 1 hour. 

—Mrs. Will M. Rogers. 
212 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Tuna Fish Loaf 

Drop slowly 3 cups of flaked hominy into 5 cups of 
rapidly boiling salted water. Cook until thoroughly 
done. 

Pick apart a small size can of tuna fish and add to 
the hominy. Cook from 3 to 5 minutes. Cool in a 
mould. Slice, roll in cornmeal and fry. 

— ^Mrs. W. V. Turner. 

Cucumber Sauce 

Beat 14 cup heavy cream stiff; add ^4 tsp. salt and 
pepper, and gradually 2 tbsp. vinegar. Add 1 cucumber 
pared, chopped, and drained through cheese cloth. 

—Mrs. Ella Scovill. 

Mock HoUandaise Sauce 

11/2 tbsp. butter, I14 tbsp. flour, % to 1/2 lemon, 1 cup 
milk, 1/2 tsp. salt, 1 egg. 

Melt butter, add flour and seasonings, when blended 
add milk and stir until thick. Add beaten egg just 
before taking from fire. Add lemon just before serving. 

— Mrs. J. D. Kindig. 



213 



EMERSON FARM DAIRY 

Perfectly 
PASTEURIZED MILK 

Telephone 966 



J. E. BROWN 

Retail and Wholesale Dealer in 
POTATOES, APPLES, MELONS, GRAPES, ETC. 

1918 W. RAILROAD AVENUE 
Phone Evanston 1120 



Thomas E. Talmadge Vernon S. Watson 

TALLMADGE & WATSON 

ARCHITECTS 

911 BURXHAM BrHiDING 

CHICAGO, ILL. 

Tel. Lawndale 2976 
Church and School AVork A Specialty 

J. SMITH & CO. 

Galvanized Iron and Copper CORNICES 
TIN AND SLATE ROOFING 

Metal Skylights, Metal Ceilings, Etc. 

General Sheet Iron and Copper Work 

2116-18 SOUTH CALIFORNIA AVENUE 

CHICAGO, ILL. 



214 



Vegetables 



215 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK IJOOK 



VEGETABLES 



Fried Apples 

Quarter and core 5 apples, without paring. Melt 

1 cup sugar, 1 tbsp. butter and 3 tbsj). water. Lay in the 
apples with skin up. Cover and fry slowly until brown. 

— ^Mrs. A. Zeeck. 

Baked Bean Loaf 

1 pt. cold baked beans, 1 egg, 1 cup bread crumbs, 

2 tbsp. tomato catsup, 1 tbsp. minced onion, salt and 
pepper. 

Mix together and shape. Bake 25 minutes, and serve 
with the following : 

BROWN SAUCE : Cook 1/2 sliced bacon in 2 tbsp. 
butter ; slightly brown. Remove onion and stir until well 
browned. 

Add 1 cup stock and stir until thick and smooth. 

— ^Mrs. J. D. Kindig. 

Italian Beans 

Boil 1 qt. string beans until tender. Brown 1 large 
onion, chopped fine, and add 1 pt. strained tomatoes. 
Let simmer 5 min. 

Turn in the beans and heat thoroughly. Any meat 
or chicken stock added, improves the flavor. 

—A. C. K. 
217 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Baked Stuffed Cabbage 

Steam a firm red cabbage whole, until tender, but 
not falling apart. Drain well and remove center, and 
fill with sausage meat. 

Cover with 4 strips of bacon, bake slowly, basting 
with drippings and i/^ cup meat stock. 

— Mrs. W. F. Struebing. 



French Cabbage 

Boil cabbage until tender, then drain well. Add i/^ 
cup grated cheese to each 3 or 4 cups of cabbage. Season 
with butter, salt and pepper. 

— Mrs. W. E. Hosier. 



Cauliflower 

Boil whole, in hot salted water, until tender. Drain 
and lay in deep dish with flower uppermost. Heat 2 
tbsp. butter, a little pepper and II/2 cups milk. Thicken 
with 1 tbsp. flour wet with a little milk. Pour over 
cauliflower and serve. — Mrs. E. J. Reeder. 



Sauce for Cauliflower 

Mix together beaten yolks of 2 eggs, i/4 cup of cream, 
1/2 tsp. salt, Ys tsp. nutmeg and juice of i/o lemon. Stir 
constantly in double boiler until mixture thickens, add 
2 tbsp. butter and pour over the cauliflower. 

— Mrs. C. E. Johnson. 
218 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Scalloped Corn 

1 can corn, 2 cups cracker crumbs, 3 tbsp. butter, 
salt and pepper. 

Alternate layers of corn and crackers in baking dish, 
having crackers on top. 

Cover with milk and bake until browTi. 

— Mrs. Emma Poster. 

Scalloped Corn 

Cut corn from cobs, add milk, buttter, salt and pep- 
per. Put a layer of corn in baking dish, sprinkle with 
chopped sweet pepper. Continue until the dish is full. 
Cover with grated cheese, and cracker crumbs. Bake in 
moderate oven. —Mrs. U. G. Buck. 



Egg Plant — Baked in Casserole 

1 egg plant, 1 onion, 1 cup corn cut from cob, 1 green 
pepper, 1 tbsp. minced parsley, IV2 cupa tomato juice, 
1 tsp. salt, 14 tsp. pepper, % tsp. paprika, 2 tbsp. butter. 

Pare eggplant and cut in slices 1 inch thick. Dip in 
boiling water for 5 min. and plunge into cold water. 
Drain and cut in cubes. Cook 15 min. in boiling salted 
water to cover. Drain. Melt butter, add onion minced 
and cook until onion is a pale straw color. Put pepper 
in boiling water for 5 min., plunge into cold water, 
and rub off the outside skin. Cut in fine shreds. Scald 
tomatoes and slip off skins. Rub through a fine wire 
sieve. Mix all together and turn into a buttered baking 
dish and bake 45 min. in a moderate oven. 

— Mary. 

219 



Phones Evanston 6 and 7 

Powers Ice Company 

1932 Ridge Ave. 
Evanston, 111. 



PHONE SHELDRAKE 1279 

Krier Tea Co. 

1435 DEVON AVENUE 
Telephone Evanston 6347 

Henry S c h m i t & Son 

CEMENT CONTRACTOR 
1032 Ashlaud Avenue Evanston, 111. 

W. H. COOK CO. 

Wholesale and Retail 

MEATS 

Telephone 280 and 281 

913 CHICAGO AVENUE Evanston, 111. 

CAFETERIA 
GEORGE SABIN 

»IEN*S, BOYS' & WOMEN'S SHOES 

Expert Shoe Repairing 

Telephone 613 719 Main Street 

220 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Baked Lima Beans 

1/2 lb. lima beans, i/4 tsp. soda, 1 pt. milk, 2 tsp. 
butter, 2 tsp. flour, i/4 lb. bacon, y2 tsp. sugar, salt and 
pepper. 

Soak beans over night. In; the morning, drain and 
boil in water with a pinch of soda. 

Make a cream sauce with the milk, butter, flour, 
pepper, salt and sugar. 

Put beans in a baking dish, cover with the bacon cut 
in small pieces and the cream sauce. Bake % hour. 

— ^IVIrs. G. L. Corke. 



Kraft Cheese Peppers 

6 green peppers, 14 lb. Kraft cheese, li/^ cups bread 
crumbs, 1 tsp. grated onion, 2 tbsp. butter or substitute, 
pinch of salt. 

Cut off thin slice of stem end of pepper, remove 
seeds and parboil 2 minutes. Melt butter, add grated 
onion, salt, bread crumbs and half of cheese. Fill pep- 
pers and cover tops with remaining cheese. Place in 
greased baking dish and bake about 20 minutes in 
moderate oven. — Mrs. I. Mogren. 

Pittsburg Potatoes 

Dice potatoes as for creaming, and boil several min- 
utes with 14 of a large onion. Drain and remove onion. 
Make a cream sauce to which has been added a canned 
pimento, cut in small pieces. Mix with potatoes, put 
in baking dish and cover thickly with grated cheese. 

—Mrs. F. P. Stewart. 
221 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Delmonica Potatoes 

Dice 1 qt. cold boiled potatoes. Heat 1 pt. milk in 
double boiler. Add 3 tbsp. flour mixed Avith a little 
cold milk, y<2, tsp. salt, 3 tbsp. butter, dash of pepper. 

When boiling, pour over potatoes ; turn into a baking 
dish and sprinkle top with 6 tbsp. grated or chopped 
cheese. 

Bake in quick oven until a light brown. 

— Mrs. Charles Munson. 



Sweet Potatoes 

Cook 3 lbs. of sweet potatoes with as little water as 
possible. When almost done, add i/2 cup sugar and 2 
tbsp. butter. 

Boil down dry, stir frequently, until the potatoes are 
well covered with the sauce. 

Serves 4 to 6 people. — ^Mrs. W. E. Hosier. 



Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Boil until tender 2 large sweet potatoes. Cut in 
slices i/i inch thick. Place in layers in buttered baking 
dish, dredge with flour, sprinkle with % tsp. cinnamon, 
2 tbsp. brown sugar and a pinch of salt. Pour over all 2 
oven until well-browned. 

— ^Mrs. F. A. Pontious. 
222 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Stuffed Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Bake medium-sized potatoes until very soft. Cut a 
slice from one side and scoop out the inside. Put this 
through a ricer. To 2 cups of potato, add 3 tbsp. butter, 
1/2 tsp. salt and hot milk to moisten. Beat until very 
light, refill skins and bake from 6 to 8 minutes in hot 
oven. — ^Mrs. Maude Smurr. 

Sweet Potatoes and Apples 

Cut potatoes into large pieces, parboil and put in 
casserole, cover top with tart apples quartered and cored. 
Take a large cup of sugar and 1 tbsp. of melted butter 
and enough hot water to moisten the sugar, pour over all 
and bake until apples are done. 

— Mrs. A. Christoph, Mamlet, Ind. 

Scalloped Tomatoes with Rice 

Butter a casserole, alternate a layer of cooked rice 
with a layer of canned tomatoes. Sprinkle with sugar, 
salt and pepper. Sprinkle thinly with grated American 
cheese and cover with buttered crumbs. Bake 20 min- 
utes. A cupful of cream sauce flavored with grated 
cheese may be poured over the rice and tomato mixture 
to make a pleasant change. 

— ^IVIrs. W. J. Putnam. 

Sliced Cucumbers with Cream 

Pare and slice cucumbers, sprinkle with salt and let 
stand 1 hr. Drain off all liquid, add cream and a dash 
of pepper. — Mrs. S. C. Wood. 

223 



Luncheon Dishes 



226 



FOR 

Good Shoes 

TRY 

THE NORTH SHORE 
BOOTERY 

In the NorUi Shore Hotel 

Evanston Agents of the 

Cantilever Shoes 

for Men and Women 

A Suggestion 

to Classes, Clubs or Individuals who may wish to make 
a gift to the Church or place a Memorial. 

This Church needs to complete its equipment, 

BAPTISMAL FONT and 
WOOD CARVINGS. 

'} 

What of His Royal Highness the Baby? 

He is the King of Hearts, the Ruler of the Roost 
and the Prince of Wails (sometimes). He is the Auto- 
crat of the Breakfast Table, the Dinner Table and the 
Supper Table. He is the Big Noise, the whole Cheese, 
and the most beloved and precious gift of God. 

Have him photographed by 

C. M. HUNTOON 
811 Main Street, Evanston, 111. Phone 8213 

226 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



LUNCHEON DISHES 



Baked Bean Omelet 

4 eggs, 1 cup milk, 2 tbsp. butter, % cup baked beans, 
parsley. 

Fry beans in the butter until a light brown. Add 
well-beaten eggs, season, add parsley and let cook. When 
done, fold over. A little thyme may be added if liked. 

— ^Mrs. Emil Nelson. 



Bread and Cheese — A Luncheon Dish 

Cut 6 slices of bread and trim off the crusts. Spread 
with butter. Butter a baking dish, put in a layer of the 
bread, sprinkle thickly with grated cheese and season 
with salt. Repeat until bread is used. Beat 4 eggs 
lightly and mix with 1^ pts. of milk. Pour over bread 
and bake in moderately hot oven until it forms a soft 
custard. Serve hot. — ^IMrs. 0. S. Graves. 



Cheese Canape 

% cup milk, 14, tsp. cayenne pepper, l^ cup grated 
American cheese, i/4 tsp. salt. Cook in double boiler ; stir 
until smooth. When cool drop in 2 eggs, one at a time, 
beat until thick, drop on toast and serve. Nice for Sun- 
day evening supper. — ^IVIrs. C. B. Coon. 

227 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Cheese on Crackers 

Butter salted wafers, sprinkle thickly with grated 
cheese, and bake in a hot oven. These are nice to serve 
with salads. — Mrs. Emil Nelson. 



Cheese Dreams 

% pound strong dry cheese, 1 small green pepper, 
chop together and add salt. Butter slices of bread and 
spread with the above mixture. Place in oven and toast 
slowly. — Mrs. Maurice E. Handke. 



Cheese Foncho 

1 cup rolled crackers, 1 cup milk, % cup grated 
cheese, 2 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately and 
very light. Stir all together and bake about 20 minutes 
in a very hot oven. Serve at once. 

— Mrs. G. C. Carnright. 



Cheese Fondue 

Mix together 1 cup milk, 1 cup soft, fine bread 
crumbs, % cup grated cheese, add 1 lightly-beaten egg. 
Season with 14 tsp. salt and a pinch of cayenne pepper. 
Put into buttered baking dish and bake 20 minutes in 
moderate oven. Serve hot. 

— Mrs. E. J. Reeder. 

228 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Cheese Fondue 

(A nice luncheon dish.) 

1 cup gi'ated cheese, 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 cup cracker 
crumbs, 1 cup milk, salt and pepper to taste, and butter 
the size of an egg. 

Butter a baking dish, mix the ingredients quickly, 
the butter being broken into small pieces. Place in a hot 
oven for 20 minutes. — Mrs. W. J. Putnam. 

Cheese and Potato Puff 

2 cups mashed potatoes, 1^4 cup cream, 1 tsp. butter, 
3 tbsp. grated cheese, a pinch of cayenne pepper and salt 
to taste. Beat until very light. Put into buttered baking 
dish, brush with melted butter and cover with fine bread 
crumbs ; dot with bits of butter. Bake 15 or 20 minutes. 

— ^Miss Mattie Nelson. 

Roquefort Cheese Dressing 

Mix piece of Roquefort cheese the size of a walnut 
with % cup olive oil. Cream Avell, then add I/4 cup 
vinegar, and paprika. Pour over quartered head of 
lettuce. — Miss Sarah Harvey. 

Cheese Straws 

1 cup flour, 5 tbsp. lard, 14 tsp. salt, % cup water. 
]Mix as for pie crust and roll thin. Sprinkle half with 
grated cheese. Fold the other half over this and press 
them together. Repeat 2 or 3 times, then cut into 
strips about 1/2 iiich wide and 3 inches long. Bake in 
hot oven until crisp and brown. 

—Mrs. W. C. Fort. 
229 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Cheese Souffle 

2 tbsp. butter, V/o tbsp. flour, 1 cup cheese grated 
or chopped, 3 eggs, % cup milk, % tsp. salt, pinch of 
cayenne pepper. 

Melt butter, add flour, seasoning and gradually the 
scalded milk and cheese. Use double boiler. Remove 
from fire, add egg yolks that have been beaten to lemon 
color. Cool, cut and fold in very stiffly-beaten egg 
whites. Pour into buttered baking dish, set dish in pan 
of hot water and bake 25 or 30 minutes in slow oven. 
Serve in place of meat. — Mrs. Geo. F. Tyson. 



Creamed Eggs on Toast 

4 hard boiled eggs, 2 cups white sauce. Cut the 
whites of the eggs into the sauce and serve on toast. 
Sprinkle with the grated yolks and add dash of paprika. 

— Mrs. C. E. Johnson. 



Com Toast 

. 1% tbsp. butter, 14 tbsp. finely-chopped onion, 1% 
cups canned corn, i/^ tsp. salt, 1 pint cream or top milk, 
Vk tsp. paprika. 

Cook onion and butter 2 minutes, stirring constant- 
ly. Add corn, milk and seasoning. Bring to boiling 
point and let simmer 5 minutes. Cut bread in i/^ inch 
slices, remove crusts, cut in halves lengthwise, and toast. 
Arrange on a hot platter and pour corn mixture over it. 

— Mrs. Emil Nelson. 

230 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Oorn Meal Souffle 

1 cup milk, 1 cup water, 2 tbsf . fat, 1 tsp. salt, 1 
tsp. sugar, 1/2 cup cornmeal, 2 eggs, 1 tsp. baking 
powder. 

Bring milk, water, sugar, salt and fat to boil, stir in 
cornmeal very slowly and boil 3 minutes. Cool a little 
and add the beaten yolks, baking powder dissolved in a 
little water and lastly the stiffly-beaten whites. Bake 
in moderate oven about 30 minutes. Serves 4 to 6 and 
makes a nice luncheon dish. 



Egg Souffle 

6 eggs, 1 cup milk, 1 tbsp. flour, 1 tbsp. melted butter, 
salt and pepper to taste. Blend the flour, butter and 
milk ; stir until very smooth. Boil until it thickens and 
stir frequently. Beat the eggs separately (whites very 
stiff). Stir yolks into cooked flour while yet hot, add 
the salt and pepper and then fold in the whites. Put 
into greased baking dish and bake % hour. 

—Mrs. N. H. Byam. 



English Cottage Pie 

Put through meat chopper any left over meats you 
may have. (Beef preferred.) Add a little salt, pepper 
and 1/^ can of tomatoes. Other seasonings may be used 
if preferred. Boil 5 or 6 potatoes and put through a 
rices ; cover the meat with potatoes and cook in moderate 
oven 30 minutes, — Mrs. Thomas Savage. 

231 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Frijoles 

1 lb. cheese, 1 can kidney beans, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 
green pepper, 1 cut-np onion. 

Make a very thick white sauce, add the cheese. Serve 
on toast. — Helen Evans. 



Jungle Stew 

Soak 1 pt. of red kidney beans over night. In the 
morning boil until tender. Brown 3 chopped onions in 
1 tbsp. of butter and add to the beans with % can 
tomatoes and % lb. macaroni. 

Simmer until the macaroni is tender and season to 
taste Avith salt and pepper. 

Delicious and very nourishing. 

— Mrs. C. M. Parrish. 



Luncheon Dish 

V2 cup Post Toasties, 2 cups cooked potatoes, diced, 
% cup grated cheese, 2 cups milk, 2 tbsp. butter, y2 tsp. 
salt, % small onion, chopped fine, pepper to taste. 

Mix together well and bake 30 minutes. 

— Mrs. M. L. Wigginton. 



4^ Left Over Meat 

1 cup cold meat, 1 cup bread crumbs, scant, 1 cup 
milk, 1/4 tvsp. salt, % tsp. pepper, % tsp. baking powder, 
1 tbsp. drippings, 4 eggs. 

232 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Put crumbs in bowl, pour over milk, let soak until 
soft; add the egg yolks and seasonings, mix well, add 
meat. Beat the egg whites until frothy, add baking 
poAvder, fold in the meat mixture. Bake 15 or 20 min- 
utes in moderate oven. 

If chicken or veal is used a little sage and celery salt 
may be added. — Mrs. C. B. Coon. 



Mashed Potatoes with Eggs 

Beat thoroughly together 2 cups mashed potatoes with 
14 cup hot milk. Add a little grated onion, salt and pep- 
per, and 6 tbsp. cold ham or other meat, ground. Put 
in buttered baking dish ; cover with cracker crumbs 
which have been moistened in 1 tbsp. melted butter. 
Bake in hot oven 10 minutes. Make several depressions 
in top of potatoes and drop an egg in each. Return to 
oven long enough to cook the eggs. 

— ^Mrs. W. Chalmers Fort. 



Macaroni with Dried Beef 

Cook 1/2 box macaroni in salted water until tender, 
and blanch. Prepare % lb. dried beef. Cut 1/4 lb. bacon 
in small pieces and brown. 

Butter a baking dish and alternate above ingredients 

in layers. 

Pour over this 1 can of tomatoes and 1/2 can of water. 
Bake in a moderate oven 30 to 45 minutes. 

— Mrs. D. J. Bierwert. 

233 



Mobiloil Service Station 

G. S. HAGEN 

Cor. W. RAILROAD and ASBURY AVE8. 

EVANSTON, ILL. Tel. 5897 

Free Crank Case Service 
GASOLINE, GREASE AND ACCESSORIES 

HENRY DOERING 

WAGON A^D AUTO WORKS 

GENERAL REPAIRING RUBBER TIRES 

1108-1110 EMERSON STREET 

Telephone 1085 EVANSTON, ILL. 

H. H. RIDGWAY 

PAINTING AND DECORATING 

1607 MAPLE AVENUE 

Phone 4413 EVANSTON, ILL. 

JOHN A. SHELLBERG 

DECORATING CO. 

Interior and Exterior Painting — Paperiianging' 
Hardwood Floors and Furniture Refinished 

Office and Shop 
811 OAKTON ST. Tel. 3731 EVANSTON, ILL. 

BUY HERE AND SAVE MONEY 

VITTO DELDOTTO 

DELICATESSEN FRESH FRUITS and A^GETABLES 

We deliver 4 times a day free of charge 
714 MAIN STREET Telephone Evanston 692 7 



GEO. METZ 

TAILOR 

234 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Macaroni and Cheese 
1 cup macaroni broken in uniform pieces; drop into 
boiling salt water, cook until tender. Drain and rinse in 
cold water. Place in a buttered baking dish. Make 
cream sauce, using 2 tbsp. butter, 1 cup milk, salt and 
pepper; melt 1 cup grated cheese in the cream sauce. 
Pour o^er the macaroni and bake about 25 minutes. 

— ^IVIrs. W. Chalmers Fort. 

Omelet Souffle 
Melt % cup Imtter and add % cup flour, l^/^ cup 
milk, 1 tsp. salt, % tsp. pepper, yolks of 5 eggs well 
beaten. 

Fold in the beaten whites of eggs. Pour in buttered 
dish and bake in a moderate oven % hour. 

— Mrs. Fred Stewart. 

Plain Omelet 

Beat the whites and yolks of 6 or 8 eggs separately, 
% pt. milk, 1 tbsp. flour, i^ ts^). baking powder, salt. 

Melt 1 tbsp. butter in a hot baking dish, then add 
the beaten whites, stir in the beaten yolks, add the milk, 
flour, baking powder and salt. Bake about 20 min. in a 
quick oven. — Mrs. U. G. Buck. 

Baked Potatoes with Cheese 

Bake 6 large potatoes, cut lengthwise, scoop out 
centers and mash thoroughly. Add % cup hot milk, l^ 
11). of pimento or American cheese (grated), 2 small tsp. 
salt, % tsp. paprika. 

Beat until light and fluffy, refill shells and bake in 
a hot oven 10 minutes. — ^Mrs. U. G. Buck. 

235 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

*' Cousin Jack" Paste 

Use deep baking dish. Slice potatoes thin and fill to 
depth of 11/2 inches; slice onions thin, to depth of % 
inch ; place hamburg steak to depth of 1 inch on top of 
potatoes and onions. Season generously with butter, salt 
and pepper. Add 1 cup of water; cover with pie crust, 
rolled about 14 i^^ch thick. Bake II/2 hours slowly. 

— Mrs. Geo. Tyson. 

Spanish Rice 

1 cup cooked rice, 2 red peppers, 1 onion, 14 lb. 
boiled ham (all chopped). Fry 6 slices of bacon and 
cook with chopped material a very few min. Add 1 tsp. 
salt and % can tomatoes. Mix, and bake in hot oven, 
until brown. — ^Mrs. G. F. Falley. 

Nourishing Rice Novelty 

% cup boiled rice, y^, lb. ground beef. Moisten with 
tomato juice or soup. If liked, add a few slices of raw 
onion. Can be made more or less moist as desired. Bake 
in a buttered dish about 1 hour. 

— Edna P. Rose, Chicago. 

Savory Rice Loaf 

2 cups boiled rice, 1 small onion, % cup minced ham, 
1 cup strained tomatoes, salt and paprika. Mix in order 
given, place in buttered dish, cover with bits of butter 
and bread crumbs and bake 30 minutes. 

—Mrs. G. L. Blunt. 
236 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Shepherds' Pie. 

Cut left over beef into small cubes or thin slices. 
Season with salt, pepper, minced onion, celery, salt and 
paprika. Put into a deep casserole ; pour over the meat 
sufficient gravy to cover. Set in a moderate oven until 
the meat is thoroughly heated ; then add 2 or 3 inches of 
hot, diced or mashed, potatoes. Bake 15 minutes more 
or until the potatoes are lightly browned. Garnish with 
a dash of paprika and minced parsley. Leftover vege- 
tables, such as carrots, peas, string beans, parsnips, etc. 
may be add with the meat. — Mrs. C. A. Klein. 



Sausage Spaghetti 

Cut 3 uncooked sausages in small pieces; fry until 
brown. Put to one side of the pan and add 1 onion 
sliced fine. Cook 5 minutes, stirring often; add 2 cups 
seasoned tomato sauce; when thoroughly heated add 2 
cups cooked and seasoned spaghetti. Toss about and 
serve at once. — Mrs. H. R. Putnam. 



Italian Spaghetti 

Boil % pkge. spaghetti 20 min., drain and blanch. 
Fry 1 onion and 1 green pepper (cut fine), in bacon fat. 
Add 2 cups tomatoes thickened with flour. Place 
spaghetti in baking dish, cover with tomato sauce and 
sprinkle with Italian cheese (grated). 

Bake 20 min. Add sugar if desired. 

— Mrs. W. Mung. 

237 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Shrimps and Peas 
Make a cream sauce of 1 large tbsp. butter, 2 tbsp. 
flour and 1 pint milk. Add a can of peas and a can of 
shrimps from which the liquid has been drained. Serve 
on slices of buttered toast. 

— ^Mrs. Samuel C. Wood. 



Baked Tomatoes 

Place 6 good-sized tomatoes in a baking dish. Cut a 
large cross in the top of each tomato and insert a lump 
of butter, % spoon of salt and a dash of pepper. 

Bake in hot oven % hour and serve in same dish. 

—Mrs. U. G. Buck. 



Tomatoes and Cheese 

Slice firm tomatoes, drain, salt, and let stand in cool 
place. When cold spread with a paste made of cream 
cheese and chopped nut meats, and press two slices 
together. Garnish with parsley and stuffed olives. 

— Mrs. G. A. Nichols. 



Tomato Toast 

Dip slices of toast in hot salted milk and arrange 
in layers in deep baking dish. Over each layer pour 
seasoned tomatoes, until dish is full. Drop pieces of 
butter over top. Bake in oven 15 minutes. 

' — ^Miss Mattie Nelson. 
238 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Tomato Cream Toast 

1% cups stewed and strained tomatoes, % cup 
scalded cream or milk, 1^4 tsp. soda, 3 tbsp. butter, 3 
tbsp. flour, y^ tsp. salt, 6 slices toast. 

Melt butter, add flour mixed with the salt. Add soda 
to tomato and stir in gradually, then add cream. Serve 
on toast while hot. — Mrs. C. U. Olson. 



239 



Salads and Salad Dressings 



241 



• ^fx^ SUPREME 

^^O^^^ Mayonnaise 
Thousand Island 




DRESSING 

Taste-T -Spread 

SANDWICH SPREAD 

TESTED AND APPROVED 

by the 

Good Housekeeping Bureau of Foods, 

Sanitation and Health 

Conducted by 
GOOD HOUSEKEEPLNG MAGAZINE 



Established 1876 

JAMES WIGGINTON 

Contractor for 
Mason and Cement Work 

1115 OAK AVENUE 

Phone 676 

EVANSTON, ILL. 



242 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



SALADS 
AND SALAD DRESSING 



Bird's Nest Salad 

Medium-sized smooth tomatoes, cottage cheese, mayon- 
naise dressing and lettuce. 

Cut tomatoes in halves and remove pulp. Make cot- 
tage cheese into balls and place 3 balls in each tomato. 
Serve on lettuce leaf with mayonnaise dressing. 

— Mrs. L. Ermil Butler. 

Butterfly Salad 

Slices of pineapple cut in halves with rounded edges 
placed together. Stuffed olives sliced thin, 2 slices on 
each wing of pineapple. Small roll of cream cheese for 
the body, and narrow strips of pimento for the feelers. 
Serve on lettuce leaf. Use Wright's Supreme Mayon- 
naise dressing. — ^Mrs. J. H. Taft. 

Cabbage Salad 

1 quart shredded cabbage, 1 small onion chopped very 
fine, 14 sweet green pepper, chopped. Mix with Wright 's 
Mayonnaise Salad Dressing. Serve on lettuce leaf, with 
thinly-sliced green peppers and a dash of paprika on 
top. Nuts may be added. 

—Mrs. C. 0. Swift. 

243 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Cabbage Salad 

1 small head cabbage or 3 cupfuls, 1 red apple, 
chopped but not peeled, % cup walnut meats, celery 
seed and salt. Serve with Wright's salad dressing. 

— ^Mrs. W. E. Hosier. 



Cottage Cheese — Pineapple Salad 

Cottage cheese, sliced or grated pineapple, lettuce and 
paprika. 

Form cottage cheese into cups on lettuce. Place 1 
tbsp. of pineapple in each cheese cup. 

Sprinkle with paprika. 

— ^Mrs. L. Ermil Butler. 



Cottage Cheese Salad 

1 lb. cottage cheese, 1 large pimento, i^ large cu- 
cumber. Chopped celery and onion to taste. 

Serve either in balls, or pack in molds and slice. 
Serve on lettuce leaf with Wright's Mayonnaise dressing. 

— ^Mrs. C. M. Munson. 



Cucumber and Radish Salad 

Pare cucumbers. Cut off the very pointed ends and 
slice in thin slices half way through. Slice nice red 
radishes in very thin slices. Place a slice of radish 
between the slices of cucumbers. Sei've on lettuce with 
Wright's Supreme dressing. 

— ^Mrs. Maude Smurr. 
244 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Stuffed Egg Salad 

6 hard-cooked eggs, i^ cupful minced ham, Maj^on- 
naise, lettuce. Remove the yolks from the hard-cooked 
eggs and combine with the minced ham and sufficient 
Wright's mayonnaise to moisten. Fill the eggs with this 
mixture and place 1 stuffed egg in each nest of lettuce. 

— Y. K. W. 



Eggs a la Tarcat 

6 hard-boiled eggs, % lb. chopped ham, ^ onion 
chopped, 1/4 tsp. ijrepared mustard, 1 tsp. salt, a little 
red pepper. 

Cut the eggs lengthwise into halves. Remove the 
yolks, and rub them smooth with the other ingredients. 
Refill the whites with this mixture. Serve cold on lettuce 
with a little Wright's Mayonnaise. 

— Mrs. H. R. Putnam. 



Easy Frozen Salad 

1 bottle whipping cream (whipped stiff), 1 or 2 tbsp. 
boiled salad dressing. Add any chopped fruit such as 
cherries, strawberries, pineapple, peaches or bananas. 
Pack in melon mold in ice and salt or ice and snow. Let 
stand from 6 to 12 hours. Slice and serve on lettuce. 
Very nice to serve in afternoon or evening with cheese 
crackers or sandwiches. 

— Mrs. R. E. James. 

245 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Fruit Salad 

1 can pineapple, cut in small pieces, % lb. grapes, 

1 can white cherries, 1 bunch celery, 1 apple, 1 orange, 

2 bananas, and nut meats. 

Serve with fruit salad dressing, listed in the salad 
dressings. — Mrs. Lyman A. Harrington. 



Fruit Salad 

Oranges, pineapple, grapes, bananas, celery and 
apples (diced). Mix with the following dressing: 

3 tbsp. lemon juice, 5 tbsp. sugar, butter size of a 
walnut. 

Boil together 2 or 3 minutes, then pour over a 
slightly-beaten egg yolk. Cook 3 minutes, but do not 
allow to curdle. When cold, mix with an equal amount 
of whipped cream. — Mrs. Milton F. Collion. 

Favorite Salads 
Shred lettuce, cut up celery fine, and a little grated 
onion. Mix with Wright's mayonnaise which has been 
mixed with chili sauce. 

Carrot and Cabbage Salad 

Equal parts of cooked carrots and raw cabbage. Nuts 
add to the flavor. 

Stuffed Celery 

Scrub celery with vegetable brush. Fill hollow side 
with pimento cheese. Lay on platter and sprinkle with 
paprika. — Mrs. H. R. Putnam. 

246 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Imperial Salad 

Drain juice from i^ can pineapple, add 1 tbsp. 
vinegar and enough water to make a pint. Heat to 
boiling point, then add 1 pkg. lemon jello. When jello 
begins to set, add i/^ can shredded pimento, 3 slices pine- 
apple, cubed, and 1 medium cucumber, salted and cut 
fine. Place in individual molds or large mold. Serve 
with Wright's cream dressing. 

— Mrs. R. E. James. 

Italian Salad 

1 package spaghetti or maeai'oni, cooked until tender. 
% cup olives, 1 bunch celery, 1 green pepper, 1 pimento, 
1 chopped onion, 1 cup cooked peas. Mix all together 
and serve on lettuce with Wright's Salad Dressing. 

— Mrs. Lyman Harrington. 

Kidney Bean Salad 

1 can kidney beans, 1 large stalk celery, 1 small 
onion, 1 pimento. 

Heat the beans, drain and blanch with hot water. 
Add celery (chopped), pimento and onion (cut fine). 
Pour heated mayonnaise over this and let cool. Serve 
on lettuce. — ^Mrs. C. A. Klein. 

Macaroni Salad 

2 cups cold cut macaroni, 1 red or green pepper, 1 
pkge. cream cheese, or i/^ cup cottage cheese, 1 cup celery 
cut fine, 1/2 cup chopped nut meats. Mix with Wright's 
Mayonnaise. This makes a well-balanced dish for the 
main part of lunch or supper. 

—Mrs. H. B. Judson. 
247 



EVANSTON 

ICE 

CO. 

Telephone 765 







Telephone Canal 0307 
Established 1856 

The Lord & Bushnell Company 

Manufacturers and Dealers in 

LUMBER 

m 

Main Office and Yards 

2424 SOUTH LAFLIN STREET 

CHICAGO 

248 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Meat Salad 

1 cup cold cooked veal or lamb, % cup asparagus, % 
tbsp. vinegar, 1 hard-boiled eg^, % cup celery, 1 tbsp. 
olive oil, i/i tsp. salt, asparagus tips, celery tips. Mix 
together diced meat, diced celery and asparagus. Blend 
olive oil, vinegar and seasonings, and turn into salad. 
Moisten with Wright's Mayonnaise or cream dressing. 
Arrange on platter and garnish with hard-boiled egg and 
asparagus tips and celery leaves. 

— ^Mrs. H. B. Judson. 



The New Century Salad 

Use crisp lettuce leaves, sliced red pepper, and olives 
with slices of cucumber. Pour over it Wright's Salad 
Dressing. — ^IVIrs. Schermerhorn. 



Orange Salad (Individual) 

Peel orange and remove connecting skins. Place 
orange sections in a circle overlapping each other on 
leaves of head lettuce. 

1 tbsp. cheese, ^ tbsp. finely-chopped nuts, i/^ tbsp. 
minced raisins, % tsp. paprika and enough cream to 
make smooth. Form in a ball and place in center of 
orange circle. Serve wdth Wright's Olive dressing, with 
a little lemon juice added. 

— ^Mrs. J. E. Hathaway. 

249 



^ J ^ NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

/ 
/ Perfection Salad 

Dissolve a pkge. of lemon jello in a pt. of boiling 
water and add 2 tbsp. vinegar. Mix 1 cup of shredded 
cabbage and 1 cup of celery (chopped), the pulp of 2 
oranges, cut fine, and about % of a small can of pimento, 
when it begins to set. 

Mold in individual molds and serve on lettuce with 
Wright 's Salad Dressing. — Mrs. Andrew Leaf. 



• Pineapple Salad 

2 cups diced pineapple, 1 cup diced celery, 1 box 
marshmallows cut in fourths. 

Mix all together with Wright's mayonnaise. Serve 
on crisp lettuce leaves; garnish with cheese balls. 

— Mrs. J. A. Johnson. 



Pimento Salad 

1 pkg. acidulated Knox 's Gelatine. Add juice of can 
of pineapple to this and let stand % hour. Add 1% 
quarts boiling water and 1% cups sugar. When it begins 
to jell, add small can of pimento, cut into strips with 
shears, and the diced pineapple. Small white onions 
may be added if desired. Serve on lettuce leaf with 
Wright's salad dressing. > — ^Mrs. A. H. Graves. 

250 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Potato Salad 

6 potatoes, 2 hard boiled eggs, 1 small onion, 1 cup 
chopped celery, 1 green pepper. Boil potatoes in jackets, 
peel and dice. Chop celery and onion and mix with 
potatoes. Add salt and pepper to taste. Use plenty of 
Wright's Supreme Mayonnaise. Stir and toss lightly to 
avoid breaking np potato. Garnish with thinly-sliced 
egg and strips of pepper. — ^Y. K. W. 

Prune Salad 

1% cup cooked prunes, 1 cup celery, chopped fine, 
1 grape fruit, diced, i/o cup Wright 's Mayonnaise dress- 
ing. 

Mix all together, place on lettuce leaf, garnish with 
parsley and pimentos. — Mrs. Frank Phinisey. 

Moulded Salmon Salad 

1 can salmon, yolks of 2 eggs, % tsp. salt, I/2 tbsp. 
melted butter, 1^/^ tbsp. sugar, 1^ tbsp. flour, % cup 
milk, 1 tsp. mustard, 1% cups vinegar, dash of paprika, 
% tbsp. gelatine soaked in 2 tbsp. of cold water. 

Place all in mold. Serve with cucuml)er sauce. 

—Mrs. Ella Scovill. 

Snappy Salad 

Ripe tomatoes, 1 crisp cucumber, 1 orange, lettuce, 
mayonnaise dressing and paprika. 

Slice tomatoes and cucumber on the lettuce. Divide 
the orange in sections and lay around the other. Pile 
mayonnaise on top and sprinkle with paprika. 

— Mrs. L. Ermil Butler. 
251 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Spaghetti Salad 
1 package spaghetti cooked until tender, % cup 
mixed pickles, 1 bunch celery, 1 green pepper, 1 pimento, 
1 large onion. Chop fine and mix together. Serve with 
"Wright's salad dressing. — ^Mrs. E. Walder. 

Vegetable Salad 
6 good-sized potatoes, boiled and sliced thin, % 
cup finely-chopped cabbage, 3 tbsp. chopped pickles, 2 
chopped onions, 2 chopped apples, yolks of 3 hardboiled 
eggs, pounded fine, a green pepper, cut fine, butter size 
of an egg, 1 tbsp. flour. 

Chop all separately, then mix thoroughly. Pour over 
it Wright's salad dressing. 

— ^Mrs. Florence O. Baulcli. 

Steamed Apples 
(Side dish with meat.'i 
6 red apples, 1 cup sugar, % cup water, 5 cents 
worth cinnamon drops. 

Core apples as for baking. Place in pan which can 
be tightly covered, add sugar, water and candy. Cook 
slowly on top of stove until done. 

— Mrs. Frank Camp. 

Salad Dressing 
Mix following dry ingredients : 2 tbsp. flour, 3 tbsp. 
sugar, 1/4 tsp. mustard, salt and pepper. Add 2 beaten 
eggs, 11/2 cups cream or rich milk, I/2 cup vinegar. Mix 
well and cook in double boiler until creamy. Dilute with 
whipped cream. — ^IMrs. Ed. Holtz. 

252 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Salad Dressing 

1 cup water, 3 tbsp. vinegar, juice of 1 lemon. Heat 
in double boiler. Mix 2 tbsp. flour with 3 tbsp. Mazola. 
Stir into hot liquid and cook until thick. Beat 1 egg 
very light, stir hot mixture into egg and beat well. 
Season with salt, pepper, paprika and 2 tbsp. sugar. 

Beat into this % cup Mazola. Thin with cream when 
ready to use. — ^Mrs. G. C. Pierce. 

Salad Dressing 
1 tsp. sugar, 1 tsp. salt, i^ tsp. mustard, paprika, 
yolks of 2 eggs, juice of 1 lemon, 2 cups olive oil. 

Mix dry ingredients and yolks together. 1 tbsp. boil- 
ing water. Add oil very slowly, then lemon juice and 
whites of eggs well-beaten. 

— Mrs. A. G. Aeppli. 

Salad Dressing 

Mixture 1 : 1 cup oil, 2 egg yolks, 2 tbsp. vinegar, 
1 tsp. sugar, 1 tsp. salt, % tsp. mustard. 

Mixture II: 1 cup water, % cup flour, boiled 
together until smooth. Add more water if too stiff. Pour 
at once into Mixture 1 and beat thoroughly for 3 min- 
utes. — Mrs. C. T. Roome. 

Salad Dressing 
To 1/^ pint vinegar and % pint water, add 1 cup 
sugar, butter size of an egg, 1 tsp. mustard, 1 tsp. white 
pepper and boil hard. Add 2 tbsp. flour, mixed with 1 
cup of milk and boil again. Beat this into 2 well-beaten 
eggs, then bring to hard boil. 

—Mrs. S. F. Burden. 
253 



MILLINERY 

HELEN LOUISE SHOP 

HELEN M. DIX, Prop. 

LADIES' FURNISHINGS 

Phone 1481 

815 CHICAGO AVE., at Washington St., Evanston, HI. 

ABRUZZO AND SON 

IMPERIAL SHOE REPAIRING SHOP 
736 3IAIN ST. Evanston, HI. 

Is not the best but better than the rest. 

Work and material of the best. Have been here since 1913. 

Bring- your repairing here and be satisfied. 

Shoe Shininj? Parlor, with BL.AKE: on the job. 

Liston's Home Bakery 

717 MAIN STREET Evanston, lU. 

Phone 3882 

Phone orders delivered 

We make a Specialty in Wedding and Birthday cakes 

EVANSTON MEAT SHOP 

NATIVE MEATS 
PISH AND POULTRY 

807 MAIN STREET Evanston, 111. 

Phone 805 

Telephone Evanston 7575 

EVANRIDGE POTTERIES 

Makers of Ceramic Luster Ware, Aitistic Pottery Lamps, 

Shades and Vases 
614 CHURCH STREET EVANSTON, ILL. 

Best for Babies 

SELECTED MILK 

We Guarantee Our Milk to be the Richest Obtainable 

Merkle Dairy Company 

Chicago Wilmette Wiiuietka 

Evanston Kenilworth Highland I*ai'k 

254 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

1 tbsp. butter, melted, 1 tbsp. sugar, % tsp. salt, 1/2 
tsp. flour, 1/^ tsp. dry mustard. 

Mix dry ingredients, add butter, yolk of 1 cgs, 
beaten, 6 tbsp. cream, 2 tbsp. vinegar; add the egg to 
the first mixture, then the cream and vinegar. Boil all 
in a double boiler until thick. — Mrs. McKee. 



Cream Dressing 

(For Lettuce or Cold Slaw.) 

1/4 cup sugar, 1 tbsp. vinegar (cider), cream. 
Mix sugar and vinegar. After sugar is dissolved, add 
cream until of right consistency. 

— ^Mrs. D. J. Bierwert. 

French Salad Dressing 

3 cups sugar, 3 tbsp. paprika, 1 tsp. salt, 3 tbsp. oil 
(Mazola). 

Pour % cup boiling water over above mixture to 
dissolve. Place in quart jar, fill up with lemon juice 
and vinegar (about 3 lemons) . Very good for vegetables 
and grape fruit. — Mrs. Luella King. 

French Dressing 

1 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. mustard, 1 tsp. sugar, a pinch of 
pepper, 1 tbsp. olive oil. Mix well together, add oil last ; 
stir smooth, add 2 more spoonfuls olive oil and 1 tbsp. 
vinegar. Red pepper may be used instead of black. 

—Mrs. W. C. Fort. 

255 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Fruit Salad Dressing 

1/4 cup pineapple juice, i/4 cup orange juice, % ^^V 
lemon juice, 2 tbsp. cornstarch, I/4 cup cold water, 2 
eggs, Yo cup sugar. 

Boil all together in a double boiler. When cold and 
ready to use, fold in i/^ cup cream (whipped). 

— ^Mrs. Lyman A. Harrington. 



Mayolmaise Dressing 

% tbsp. mustard, 1 tbsp. sugar, 1/10 tbsp. caj^enne 
pepper, 1 tsp. salt, yolks of 3 eggs, juice of 1^ lemon, 14 
cup tarragon vinegar, 1 pint olive oil. 

Beat all thoroughly in bowl that has been w^ell chilled. 

— Mrs. F. A. Pontious. 



Sweet Salad Dressing 

1 can sweetened condensed milk. Eagle Brand, ^4 
tsp. salt, 2 heaping tsp. prepared mustard, or 1 tsp. dry, 
mixed with a little vinegar, 1 cup medium strength 
vinegar, 1 Iwell-beaten egg. Add 1 cup chili sauce to 
above to make a good Thousand Island Dressing. 

— ^Mrs. E. J. Reeder. 



Salad Dressing for Vegetable Salad 

% cup sugar, 2 eggs, pinch of salt, 1 tsp. butter, 1 tsp. 
dry mustard, % cup vinegar. 

Stir over fire until it thickens. When cool add milk 
or cream. — ^Mrs. C. A. Roney, Chicago. 

256 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Vegetable Salad Dressing 

1 tsp. celery seed, 1 tsp. salt, a pinch of pepper, I/2 
cup sugar, i^ cup vinegar, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tsp. Wor- 
cestershire sauce. 

Put vinegar and butter on stove. When warm, add 
other ingredients and let come to a boil, stirring con- 
stantly. Draw back on the stove and add the beaten 
yolks of 2 eggs. Continue stirring till it thickens, then 
remove from fire and bottle. 

— Mrs. Florence 0. Baulch. 



257 



Sandwiches 



259 



Office Phone 5077 Res. Phone 602 9 

^ EENESTR. NORMAN 

PLUMBING AND HEATING 

Sanitary Plumbing — Iron and Tile Sewerage 
Steam aiid Hot Water Heating 

Estimates furnished 

1045 CHICAGO AVENUE Evanston, 111. 



Best Equipped on the North Shore 

The Washington Laundry 

700, 702, 704 WASHINGTON STREET 

Phones 
Wilmette 145 Evanston 5900, 5901, 1902 

ROBERTSON & CO. 

Wallpaper 
Paint 

Telephone 169 
604 DAVIS STREET 

Mears Slayton Building Material Company 

HOWARD ST. & CHICAGO AVE. 
Complete Stock of 

Lumber and Building Specials 

Phones: Evanston 3950; Rogers Park 8270 

260 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



SANDWICHES 



Cheese Sandwiches 

Grate any good cheese, rub into a paste with butter, 
season with salt and a little Worcestershire Sauce. 
Spread between slices of bread. — Mrs. C. Johnson. 

Pimento Cheese and Nut Sandwiches 

To 8 oz. pimento cheese, work in enough mayonnaise 
dressing to make a creamy consistency. Add % ^^P 
finely-chopped pecans or walnuts and i/4 cup sweet 
gherkins. Spread between slices of nut or brown bread. 
Put together in pairs, remove the crust and cut in 
triangles. Garnish each with y^, nut meat. — Mrs. K. 

Deviled Ham Sandwiches 

1 cup cold boiled ham, 1 tsp. lemon juice, 3 tsp. 
melted butter, l^ tsp. mustard, yolks of 2 hard-boiled 
eggs. 

Chop ham fine, rub yolks smooth with butter, mix 
all ingredients well and spread between slices of bread. 

— Mrs. Frank Phinisey. 

Delicious Sandwich Spread 

2 cups cold boiled pork shoulder, 3 hard-boiled eggs, 
1 small onion, several small pickles or olives. Chop 
together through food chopper and mix with mayonnaise 
dressing. — Mrs. F. Vescelus. 

261 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Dream Sandwiches 

Chop raisins and nut meats together, mix well and 
spread on buttered bread. Very good for school lunch. 

—Mrs. K. 



Ideal Sandwiches 

3 cold, hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine, 3 large slices 
bacon, fried crisp, 1 small bottle stuffed olives, 1 slice 
onion. Chop and mix with enough ^Yy-igjit's salad 
dressing to make a thick paste. Spread between slices 
of white or rye bread and serve with a green salad and 
fresh fruit. . ; ■•.■..■., — ^^Ij,^^ g;_ 



Macaroon Sandwiches 

Be sure the macaroons are fresh. Lay a slice of 
cream cheese between 2 macaroons. Press together firm- 
ly. Keep in cool place until wanted. 

—Virginia Klein. 



Peanut Butter Paste for Sandwiches 

2 cups seeded raisins, l^ cup orange juice, 2 tbsp. 
lemon juice, or less, 1 level tsp. salt, 1 cup nut meats, 
% cup peanut butter. 

Put raisins through the food chopper, add the other 
ingredients and mix well. Pack in jelly glasses. Will 
keep for a long time. — Mrs. C. A. Klein. 

262 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Spicy Sandwiches 

Bread and butter, ripe tomatoes (tomatoes must be 
firm), peanut butter. 

Cut bread thinly and spread with butter. Place a 
thin slice of tomato on one piece of the sandwich and 
spread the other half with the peanut butter. Place 
halves together and cut off the crusts. 

— Mrs. Ermil Butler. 

Ribbon Sandwich 

1 loaf of whole wheat bread and 1 loaf of white 
bread. Cut the long way of the loaf. Spread each 
slice with butter. Then spread with a filling made of 
2 bricks Blue Ribbon cheese, 1 cup of walnut meats 
chopped fine, moistened with cream. Alternate the 
brown and white bread, using two slices of each. Roll 
in a damp cloth until ready to cerve. Cut across the 
loaf, which will give the ribbon effect. 

— ^^Mrs. E. S. Braden. 



263 



Pickles and Relishes 



265 



Phone Evanston 3149 

*'THE WHITE LIGHT SAVER" 

Regulates Your Hall Lights and 
Oi)eiis tJie Draft in Your Furnace 

VICTOR WHITE 
621 Sheridan Road Evanston, 111. 

Orders Called for and Delivered Oysters and Fish 

Kedzie Meat Market 

A Full Line of FRESH AND SMOKED MEATS 

52 6 KEDZIE ST.,. EVANSTON 
Tel. Evanston 4613 Orders Promptly Attended to 

E. BACHECHI 

GROCERY AND MEAT MARKET 
FRUIT^.AND VE,G^yABLES 

Phone 1218 802 MAIN STREET 

Phone Evanston 2984 Stucco Work a Specialty 

CHAS. B. EIDEN 

Plastering Contractor 

1402 WASHINGTON ST. EVANSTON, ILL. 

Phone Evanston 1151 Phone Edgewater 1518 

ANTON PETERSEN 



Contractor and Builder 



716 MAIN STREET EVANSTON, ILL. 

266 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



PIGKI.ES AND RELISHES 



Sweet Apple Pickles 

1 cup sugar, % cup vinegar, 1 pint fruit, cloves and 
cinnamon. Mix sugar, vinegar, cinnamon and boil 20 
minutes. Drop in fruit cut in half; stick >vhole cloves 
into halves. Cook until tender. Seal while hot. 

— ^Marion Johnson. 

Beet Pickles 
1 cup vinegar, 1 cup water, 1 cup sugar, 6 whole all- 
spice, a small piece of cinnapion bark. Boil together 
until quite. a thick syrup. Fill a quart jar with freshly- 
cooked beets and pour the syrup over them. Seal while 
hot. Beets must be used the same day they are taken 
from the ground. —Mrs. M. E. Kurts. 

Pickled Red Cabbage 

Slice cabbage fine and pla^e in a colander. Sprinkle 
with salt and let drain for 2 days. Put in a jar and 
cover with boiling vinegar. If spice is liked, use 1 oz. 
of whole black pepper and % oz. allspice to each quart, 
mixing with vinegar. — Mrs. Thomas Savage. 

Cabbage, Beet and Horse Radish Pickles 
1 qt. cooked beets, and 1 qt. raw cabbage, chopped 
fine, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup horse radish, grated, 1 tbsp. 
salt, 1/2 tsp. red pepper, enough vinegar to cover. Heat 
thoroughly, pack in jars and seal. 

— S. Belriap. 
267 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Canadian Pickle 

1 qt. large onions, chopped, 1 qt. large cucumbers, 
chopped, 1 qt. small cucumbers, whole, 1 qt. small white 
onions, w^hole, and 2 green peppers, chopped. 

Cover with hot brine; let stand over night. Drain 
in the morning and add 5 cups bro^vn sugar, less if 
desired, % gal. vinegar, 2 oz. whole mustard seed, 2 oz. 
celery seed. Let come to a boil. Make a paste of % cup 
flour, 1/4 lb. mustard, 1 tsp. tumeric powder. Pour on 
pickles slowly, let boil and seal. 

— Mrs. Thomas Savage. 

Chicago Hot 
Chop 1 pk. green tomatoes, 4 red peppers, 4 green 
peppers, 2 cups celery, 2 cups onions. Cover with % 
cup salt and let stand over night. Drain well. Mix 
together 6 cups vinegar, 2 cups sugar, i/^ cup white 
mustard seed. Pour over the first mixture. Pack in 
stone jars. — ^J^Irs. U. G. Buck. 

Chili Sauce 

1 heaped peck ripe tomatoes, skinned and chopped, 8 
large onions, sliced, 2 tbsp. cinnamon, 2 small tsp. cloves, 
2 level tbsp. salt, 1 tsp. allspice, 2^^ cups sugar, 1 qt. 
vinegar, 2 level tsp. cayenne pepper. Boil together until 
thick. — Mrs. Bliss Langill. 

Chili Sauce 
18 tomatoes, 6 peppers, 6 onions, 1 lb. brown sugar, 3 
tbsp. salt, 4 cups vinegar. Chop together and cook 1 
hour. — ^Mrs. H. R. Putnam. 

268 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Chutney Sauce 
16 ripe tomatoes, 12 large ai)i:)les, 10 large onions, 
1 pound raisins, l^ pound or i/^ cup salt, 1 pound sugar, 
4 red peppers and 6 cups vinegar. Chop fine and cook 
together slowly for 3 hours. Seal in sterilized jars. 

— Mrs. Elmer A. Johnson. 

Hope's Chutney 

1/4 pk- ripe tomatoes, % pk. large onions, % pk. tart 
apples, 11/4 lbs. brown sugar, 1 lb. sultana raisins, % 
gal. vinegar, 1 oz. mixed spices, 1 small red pepper. 

Chop fine and mix together. Boil until clear. 

— Mrs. O. Carlson. 

Cucumber Mangoes 

Soak large green cucumbers in strong brine for 2 
daj^s. Remove and stand in clear water for 2 days. 

Cut slit in each, scoop out seeds, wipe dry. Fill with 
stoned raisins, long, thin, strips of lemon and 6 or 8 
cloves. Sew up slit. 

Pack cucumbers in stone jar and cover with a boiling 
syrup made of 1 qt. vinegar, 5 lbs. sugar, season with 
cinnamon, cloves and mace. For 9 successive mornings 
reheat syrup. — Mrs. J. Champine. 

Sliced Cucumber Pickles 
Peel and slice 25 large, green cucumbers, 4 large 
onions, sliced, sprinkle with salt and let stand 4 or 5 
hours. Drain well. Cover with vinegar, add % cup 
sugar, 1 small tsp. mustard seed, I/2 tsp. tumeric, 2 tbsp. 
celery seed. Boil 15 minutes, can and seal. 

— Mrs. Bliss Langill. 

269 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Cucumber Sauce 

1 peck cucumbers, 6 large onions, chopped fine. Let 
stand 3 hours with 1 cup salt, mixed thoroughly. Drain 
through a thin cloth bag, add 1 pound sugar, 1 tbsp. 
celery, 1 tbsp. white mustard seed. Cover with vinegar, 
heat thoroughly but do not boil, and can. 

— ^Mrs. Samuel Wood. 

Chow Chow 

1 peck green tomatoes, sliced, 1 qt. large cucumbers 
sliced, 1 qt. small cucumbers, 1 qt. onions, 3 qt. cauli- 
flower, 6 green peppers, 1 gal. vinegar, 1 oz. tumeric, 
20 tbsp. mustard, 2 tbsp. flour, 2 cups sugar. 

Soak the vegetables over night in a weak brine in 
separate vessels. Mix the tumeric, mustard, sugar, flour 
with a little vinegar. Heat the vinegar and when boiling 
add the onions and cauliflower, heat thoroughly, then 
add tomatoes and pickles. Cook, stirring often, until 
tender. 10 minutes before taking from fire add the 
flour, mustard and tumeric. When cold seal with 4 
pieces of horseradish root on top of each jar. 

— Mrs. Joanna Wigginton. 

Delmonlco Pickles 

14 peck green tomatoes, sliced, % peck small onions, 
sliced, 4 large cucumbers, sliced, and 4 bunches of celery, 
chopped. Salt and let stand over night. Drain well. 

^ gal. vinegar, 2 lbs. brown sugar, 1 oz. celery seed, 
1 oz. whole cinnamon, 1 oz. cinnamon, 1 oz. tumeric, 
1/4 lb. white mustard seed. Bring to the boiling point 
and add the tomatoes, onions, celery and cucumbers. 
Let simmer 2 or 3 hours. Bottle while hot. 

— ^Mrs. N. H. Byam. 
270 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Dill Pickles 

Boil together 6 quarts water, 1 quart vinegar, 1 small 
tsp. alum, 1 tbsp. pepper balls, 1 tbsp. allspice, 4 un- 
ground bay leaves. Wash pickles, dry, then pack in fruit 
jars using plenty of dill. Fill jars with boiling mix- 
ture and seal at once. — ^^Irs. G. A. Burton. 

Mustard Pickles 

4 quarts cut green tomatoes, including 1 cauliflower, 
8 medium-sized onions and a little red pepper, cut very 
fine. Sprinkle salt through and let stand over night. 
In the morning drain, and rinse if there is too much 
salt, then add 2 tbsp. celery seed or more cut celery. 

Take 2 cups sugar, li^ cups flour, 6 tsp. Coleman's 
mustard, 1 tbsp. ground cinnamon, % tbsp. ground 
cloves, 1 heaping tsp. tumeric powder. Mix thoroughly 
in little vinegar, add scant 2 quarts mild vinegar. Mix 
all thoroughly and cook until tender. 

— Mrs. Frank Phinisey. 

Mustard Pickles 

4 quarts green tomatoes, 1 quart small onions, 1 quart 
cucumbers, 1 quart cauliflower, 3 green peppers. Cut 
all into small pieces, let stand in weak brine 24 hours. 
Boil in same brine until tender, pour in colander and let 
drain 1 hour. Cover with 6 tbsp. mustard, 1 tbsp. 
tumeric, 4 cups sugar, 1 cup flour. Mix these with water 
to form a paste, heat 2 qts. vinegar, 1 pint water, when 
it boils pour in the paste, cook until as thick as soft 
custard. Add pickles, seal in jars. 

—Mrs. L. D. Trabert.^ 

271 



If You Are Looking for — 

A TASTY SANDWICH 

Or, SOME GOOD CANDY 

Or, A SUNDAE WITH HOME MADE CREAM 

Or, A REAL MEAL, 

You Can Get It At 



K; 



JTCHEN 
813 NOYES ST., 2 blocks West of Patten BGm. 

Telephone 4353 

HUGH ORR 

P 1 a s t e r i n g C o n t r a c t o r 

stucco Work A Specialty 
2403 CENTJIAL STREET 

Established 1878 Telephone Evanston 8411 

SERVICE TO ALL PARTS OF NORTH SHORE 

AUG. BURKE ROOFING CO. 

GRAVEL ROOFERS 

Asphalt Roofing Over^ Shingles 

Old Roofs Rei>aired and Re-coate<l 

517 DEMPSTER STREET 

THE HOME BUILDERS 

General Coaitractors 

1310 SHERMAN AA^NUE 

Telephone Evanston 8331 
A. R. GRANT H. O. WELDON 

272 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Mustard Pickles 

12 large cucumbers, 18 onions and 1 carrot sliced 
fine. liCt stand in salt water 2 hours. Drain well 1% 
cups vinegar and 1 heaping cup sugar boiled together. 
Add pickles and boil 5 minutes (no longer). Make a 
paste of 1 tsp. cloves, 14 tsp. red pepper, I/2 tsp. tumeric, 
and 14 tsp. ground mustard. Add this to the pickles, 
pack in jars and seal. Celery seed may be added. 

— Mrs. S. Belnap. 

Nine Day Pickles 

Soak 7 lbs. cucumbers, cut in chunks 1 inch long, in 
strong brine for 3 days, then drain and soak in clear 
water 3 days, changing water each day; the third day 
drain well, take weak vinegar enough to cover and add 
alum the size of a hickory nut. Cook slowly, but not 
boil, in vinegar for 2 hours. Drain. 

To 7 lbs. cucumbers use 3 lbs. brown sugar, 3 pints 
vinegar, 1 oz. spices, 1 oz. cassia buds, 1 oz. celery seed. 
Heat and pour over pickles boiling hot. Heat each day 
for 3 days, third day boil syrup until quite thick, pour 
over pickles in glass jars and seal. 

—Mrs. U. G. Buck. 

Olive Cherries 

1 pint cold water, i/^ teacup vinegar, 1 tablespoon 
salt. 

Mix the above together and pour cold over cherries 
packed in cans. Leave the stems on the cherries. 
Ready to eat in two or three weeks. 

— Mrs, L. Ermil Butler. 
273 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Green Peppers 

Chopped green peppers, fried in butter are delicious 
when served with canned corn or peas. 

— Mrs. W. E. Hosier. 

Pickled Peaches 

Select small sound peaches and stick with cloves. To 
each quart of peaches, allow 1 pint of cider vinegar and 
1 cup of sugar, 1 tsp. each of allspice, cloves and cinna- 
mon. Cook until done and seal hot. 

— ^Mrs. Bertha Leaf. 

Pickled Pears 

Make a sjTup of 2 lbs. of sugar to 1 qt. of vinegar, 
1 tsp. cloves, 2 tsp. cinnamon, 1 grated nutmeg. Drop 
in the pears cut in halves and boil till tender but not 
broken. Place in jars. Boil vinegar 20 minutes longer 
and pour over fruit. Is also good for peaches and crab- 
apples. — ^Mrs. Jas. Carter. 

Piccalilli 

1 head cabbage, 4 qts. green tomatoes, 5 onions, 3 
stalks celery, 3 red peppers, 1 tsp. each of mustard and 
celery seed, 1 tsp. mustard, 3 pts. vinegar, 2 lbs. brown 
sugar, a little black pepper. Put cabbage, tomatoes, 
onions and peppers through food chopper and let stand 
over night with 1 cup salt. In the morning, drain, dry 
and add the ground celery. 

Put vinegar, sugar and spices on to boil and when 
hot add vegetables. Cook about 30 min. Stir constantly 
and seal in jars, hot. — ^Mrs. Bertha Leaf, 

274 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Pickles 

200 medium-sized cucumbers. Wash and place in stone 
jar, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup salt, 1 cup ground mustard, 1 
handful mixed spices. 

Sprinkle the spices through as you pack the cucum- 
bers in the jar. Mix the sugar, salt, mustard into a 
paste with vinegar to moisten and pour over the cucum- 
bers, then fill the jar with cold vinegar. Use cider 
vinegar. Pickles will be brittle in 4 or 5 days. 

—Mrs. 0. T. Mitchell. 

Tomato Catsup 
Peel 1 bushel ripe tomatoes, 2 green, hot peppers, 
10 large onion ; boil together until tender. Put mixture 
through sieve. Return to slow fire and add 2 quarts 
cider vinegar, 4 cups sugar, 1 oz. whole cloves, 1 oz. 
whole allspice, 2 oz. stick cinnamon, 1 tsp. red pepper, 
1 tsp. whole pepper. Put spices in a salt bag. Cook 
slowly until reduced %. Bottle boiling hot. / Cx^^ ^ ^jC* 

— Mrs. J. D. Wigginton. 

Grreen Tomato Pickle 

11/2 pecks green tomatoes sliced 14 inch, i/^ peck 
onions sliced ; put in strong salt water in separate dishes 
over night. Drain well. 

Bring to the boiling point 6 cups cider vinegar, 2 
tbsp. cinnamon, 1 tsp. each allspice, cloves and pepper, 
3 cups sugar, 2 green hot peppers; add onions and boil 
5 minutes, then add tomatoes and boil until tender. Do 
not seal boiling hot. Place 4 small pieces of horseradish 
on top of each can before sealing. 

— Mrs. J. D. Wigginton. 

275 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Chopped Green Tomato Pickle 

Sprinkle a cup of salt over 1 pk. of green tomatoes 
(chopi^ed fine), let stand over night and in the morning 
drain well. Add l^ pt. horse-radish (grated), 2 onions 
and 1 stalk celery (chopped fine), 1 cup sugar, ^4 ^^P 
celery seed, y^ cup mustard seed, 1 tbsp. ground mustard, 

2 tbsp. ground pepper, 1 tsp. cloves, cinnamon and all- 
spice, 2 qts. hot vinegar. No cooking required. 

— Mrs. C. S. Graves. 

Green Tomato Chutney 

1 cup raisins, 4 cups vinegar, I/4 cup mustard seed, 
1/4 cup salt, 2 cups brown sugar, 4 small onions, 6 good- 
sized green tomatoes. Simmer 1 hour, then add 12 sour 
apples, chopped fine; cook slowly until tender, seal in 
small jars. — Mrs. M. L. Wigginton. 

Watermelon Pickle 
Boil white part of melon in salted water for 1 hour. 
Drain; add equal parts brown sugar and vinegar, 2 
tbsp. cloves tied in thin cloth, and several sticks cinna- 
mon. Boil 20 minutes, add melon and boil 10 minutes. 

— Mrs. Chas. Langill. 

Wayside Mixed Pickles 

2 qts. green tomatoes, 2 qts. ripe tomatoes, 3 sweet 
green peppers, 1 large ripe cucumber, 2 stalks celery, 

3 large onions, 1 small cabbage. Chop all together and 
cover with i^ cup salt. Let stand over night. In the 
morning, drain well. Then add 3 qts. of vinegar, 2 lbs. 
brown sugar, 2 tbsp. mustard. Cook for 1 hr. and seal 
hot* —Mrs. W. M. Hofstetter. 

276 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

World Fair Pickles 

1 qt. whole small cucumbers, 1 qt. large cucumbers, 
sliced, 1 qt. small onions, 1 qt. green beans, boiled, 1 
large cauliflower, 4 green peppers cut fine. Make a 
brine of 4 qts. water, 1 pt. salt. Pour over vegetables and 
let stand 24 hours, then scald in brine. Drain well. 

Dressing 
1 cup flour, 6 tbsp. mustard, 1 tbsp. tumeric, li^ 
cups brown sugar, 3 qts. vinegar. Mix flour and 
mustard to a thin paste and stir into the vinegar ; let boil 
until thick. Mix with the vegetables and let all boil 
until heated through. Seal while hot. 

—Mrs. U. G. Buck. 

Spiced Cherries 
Remove stones from cherries and cover with vinegar. 
Let stand for 24 hours. Drain, take equal parts of 
cherries and sugar, add % tsp. cinnamon to each 2 
quarts of seeded cherries. Let stand for 2 or 3 days, or 
until sugar is dissolved stirring occasionally. Pack in 
cold jars and seal. No cooking. — Mrs. S. Belnap. 

Green Tpmato Mince Meat 

1 peck green tomatoes and 1 peck cooking apples 
(ground), 4 cups vinegar, 4 cups molasses, 2 tbsp. ground 
cinnamon, 1 tbsp. cloves, 1 nutmeg, 2 tbsp. salt, 2 lbs. 
raisins, I/2 tsp. pepper, 2 lbs. currants, 2 lbs. brown 
sugar, 1 lb. beef suet ground fine. Cover tomatoes with 
boiling water and cook 15 minutes. Drain and cover 
again with boiling water and cook 15 minutes. Repeat 
again and drain. Add other ingredients and let boil 
10 minutes. Seal hot. Makes about 10 qts. — K. 

277 



HARRIET HAT SHOP 

525 MAIN STREET 

EXCLUSIVE MILLINERY 

Tel Evanston 1537 

GEO. E BENNETT 

CONTRACTOR AND BOLDER 

1141 SHERMAN AVENUE EVANSTON, ILL. 

Jobbing a Specialty 

Phone Evanston 1774 

3IAH0N'S BAKE SHOP 

Mrs. Thomas F. Mahon, Prop. 

CAKES AND SALADS TO ORDER 

Decorated Birthday and Wedding Cakes a Specialty 

1305 CHICAGO AATlXUE EVANSTOX, ILL. 

EVANSTON 2 4 66 

R KOEPKE 

GROCKlLi .\ND DELICATESSEN 
Ice Cream, Candies. Cigars 

539 CHICAGO A^'ENTJE EVANSTON, ILL. 

Tel. Orders Promptly Delivered 

Caulking and Filling Window Frames 
Pointing Old Walls with Cement 

J. P. McM AH ON 

TUCK POINTING 

Brick and Stone Cleaning, Pointing Tile Roofs 

Whitewashing 

715 3LU)LSON STREET EVANSTON, ILL. 

Phone 59 

LAKE SHORE GARAGE 

Tovilng, Ovetiumling, Repairing, Storage and Supplies 

1010-16 CHICAGO AVEN^TE 

ALBERT E. NORMAN, Manager 
EVANSTON, ILL. 

278 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Com Relish 

12 large ears corn, 1 small cabbage, 4 large onions, 
4 large red peppers, 2 tbsp. salt, 4 tbsp. ground mustard, 
3 tbsp. celery seed, 3 cups sugar, 1 quart vinegar. 

Put corn, cabbage, onions and red peppers through 
meat grinder. Mix together and add spices, sugar, salt 
and vinegar. Cook 1 hour and seal hot. 

— ^Mrs. Elmer A. Johnson. 

Celery JRelish 

60 large ripe tomatoes, sliced, 8 large, ripe, red pep- 
pers, 20 large onions, 46 tbsp. sugar, 10 tbsp. salt, 12 
cups vinegar, 16 large heads of celery, cut, 4 sweet green 
peppers. Boil 21/2 hours. — ^Mrs. Bliss Langill. 

Red Pepper Relish 

Twelve red peppers, sweet, 12 green peppers, sweet, 
12 large onions, 1 tbsp. salt, 1 pint brown sugar, 1 qt. 
vinegar. 

Chop the peppers coarsely, pour on boiling water, let 
stand 5 minutes, drain, pour on boiling water again and 
let stand 10 minutes. Drain, add chopped onion. Boil 
sugar, vinegar and salt, add mixture and boil 15 minutes 
after it begins to boil. Seal in glass jars. 

—Mrs. U. G. Buck. 

Pepper Relish 

1 doz. large green sweet peppers, 1 doz. large red 
peppers, 1 large stalk celery, 1 doz. large onions, 3 cups 
cider vinegar, 2 cups sugar, 4 tbsp. salt. Chop, and pour 
boiling water over vegetables and let stand for 5 min. 

279 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Drain well. Put vinegar, salt and sugar in a kettle and 
boil for several minutes. Then add the mixture and boil 
5 min. longer. Seal hot. — Mrs. W. M. Hofstetter. 

Pepper Relish 

1 doz. red sweet peppers, 1 doz. green peppers, 3 good 
sized onions. Remove seeds from peppers and chop with 
with onions. Cover with boiling water, let stand 10 
minutes and drain. Cover again, bring to boil and drain. 
Add 1 qt. vinegar, 2 cups sugar and 4 tbsp. salt. Bring 
to boil, pack in jars and seal while hot. 

— Mrs. S. Belnap. 

Philadelphia Relish 

2 cups cabbage, 2 mild peppers, 1/2 tsp. salt, % cup 
brown sugar, 1 tsp. mustard seed, 14 ^^P vinegar, 1/2 tsp. 
celery seed. Chop cabbage and peppers very fine. Mix 
all other ingredients, and pour over the cabbage and pep- 
pers. Stir well. Serve with fish, meat or baked beans. 

I — ^Mrs. J. D. Kindig. 

Rhubarb Relish for Cold Meats 
2 lbs. rhubarb, cut in small pieces, 1 lb. sugar, 1 tsp. 
each, cinnamon, cloves, allspice, tied in a bag. Cook 
very slowly until thick, remove spice bag, pour into 
glasses. Seal when cold with paraffin. Makes 5 
glasses. — Mrs. L. Scharstein. 

Indian Sauce or Relish 
12 large ripe tomatoes, 12 large sour apples, 9 onions, 
1 qt. vinegar, S cups brown sugar, 2 tbsp. salt, 1 tbsp. 
pepper, I/2 tbsp. each cloves, allspice and cinnamon. 
Cook slowly until tender. — Mrs. C. H. Reed. 

2S0- 



Jams 



281 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



JAMS 



Amber Jam 

1 orange, 1 grapefruit, 1 lemon, sugar and water. 

Wash the fruit and cut into small pieces, removing, 
all seeds. Be sure to save all juice during the cutting 
process. Mix all fruit and juice and measure; then 
pour three times its quantity of water over it and let 
stand 24 hours. Cook % hour and measure again. To 
each cup of fruit use 1 cup of sugar. Mix well and let 
stand for 24 hrs. Place over a moderate fire and let 
simmer until rich and thick. Do not let stand in metal. 

— ^Mrs. H. R. Putnam. 

Carrot Conserve 
Wash and scrape half a dozen or more highly-colored 
carrots, put through the food chopper, cutting them into 
bits as small as peas. Boil 30 minutes in clear, slightly- 
salted water. Drain; add to each pint of carrot 1 cup 
of white sugar and 1 cup of light brown^ the juice and 
1/2 the grated rind of 1 lemon. Cook slowly until clear. 

— ^IVIrs. H. M. Bannister. 

Carrot Mannelade 

1 qt. carrots (after having been put through the food 
chopper), juice of 2 lemons and 2 oranges, also the rind 
cut up fine, 3 cups sugar. Let stand over night. In the 
morning put on to cook with just enough water to keep 

283 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

from sticking. Cook II/2 his, and seal in jelly glasses. 
The carrots make up the bulk but leave no taste what- 
ever. — Mrs. Mary Cleason. 



Cranberry Jelly 

2 cups cranberry pulp, 2 cups sugar and 2 cups 
water. 

Put the cranberries through the food chopper, then 
measure, add water and boil 10 minutes. Add the sugar, 
boil 5 minutes longer and turn into a mold. 

— Mrs. N. H. By am. 



Cranberry Sauce 

1 qt. cranberries, 2 cups sugar, 1 pint water. Wash 
cranberries and place on fire in a covered sauce pan. 
Let simmer until every berry bursts, remove cover from 
pan, add sugar and boil 20 minutes. The cranberries 
must never be stirred from the time they are placed on 
the fire. — ^Mrs. F. J. Kepler. 



Cranberry Sauce 
(Whole.) 

1 qt. cranberries, 2 cups sugar, 1 pint of water. 
Wash cranberries, put over fire with water in a covered 
kettle and simmer till they pop. Remove cover, add 
sugar and cook 20 minutes. Do not stir. 

— Mrs. M. L. Wigginton. 
284 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Pour Fruit Jam 

Two qts. red raspberries, 2 qts. cherries, 2 qts, cur- 
rants, 2 qts. gooseberries. Weigh, and add equal weight 
of granulated sugar. Cook one hour, stirring constantly. 
This makes a thick jam. — Miss B. King. 



Grape Conserve 

1 basket grapes (remove seeds), 2 oranges (peel and 
all), 1 lb. raisins chopped together. ^ lb. English wal- 
nuts, 4 lbs. sugar. Boil all together I/2 hour. Add nuts 
after it is cooked. — Mrs. M. L. Wigginton. 



Kumquat Marmelade 

3 lbs. kumquats sliced thin and seeds removed. Add 
same amount of water and set away 24 hrs. Boil until 
tender in same water and set away another 24 hrs. Then 
boil 30 min., weigh, and add equal weight in sugar. Boil 
20 min. longer, put in glasses, and let stand until jellied 
before sealing with paraffin. 

—Mrs. L. D. Trabert. 



Orange Marmalade 

; 4 oranges, 2 lemons, cut into thin slices. To 1 pint 
of the mixture add 1^^ pints water. Boil 30 minutes 
and let stand over night. Then add 3 cups sugar to 
each pint of mixture. Boil 40 minutes. 

— Mi-s. E. R. Pulliam. 
285 



/3. G. LAWRENCE H. G. DANIELSON 

Res. Phone 4492 Res. Phone 3086 

Lawrence & Danielson 

Printing & Decorating 
1047 CHICAGO AVENUE Evanston, lU. 

Phone Evanston 5415 
For PURE TABLE WATER 

Call or Write 

Sparkling Springs Mineral Water Co. 

ARTHUR TILLMAN, Distributor 
HIGHLAND PARK, ILL. Phone 42 

CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 

Evanston Branch — North Shore Hotel 
DAVIS ST. and CHICAGO A\^. Phone Ev. 6400 

"The World's Leading Motor Club" 
Insurance Dept. alone saved the members 

14 Million Dollars in 1923 
Office open 10 A. M. to 8 P. M. daily 

35 Years of Honest 
CABINET AND FURNITURE BUILDING 

Ayers-Cihiar-Ransom Co. 

CABINET SHOP 

426 ARMOUR STREET CHICAGO 

Telephone Monroe 2510 

Phones: Evanston 3817, 822 

LA BAHN BROTHERS 

Conimoin Building and Sewer Brick 

Yards 
OAKTON STREET and C. & N. W. TRACKS 

EVANSTON, ILL. 



286 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Orange Marmelade 
6 thin-skinned oranges, 6 thin-skinned lemons, 
shred and measure. To each cup fruit, add 3 cups water, 
put in crock and soak 24 hours, no less. Boil hard 10 
minutes and let stand 24 hours again. To each cup fruit, 
add 1 cup sugar then 1 cup extra. Cook until it jells, 
put in glasses. — Mrs. W. L. Severance. 



Orange Marmelade 

4 oranges and 2 lemons cut into thin slices, or put 
through the food chopper. 

To 1 pt. of this mixture add 11/^ pts. of cold water 
and boil 30 minutes. Let stand over night and in the 
morning add II/2 lbs. of sugar to each pint. Boil 40 min- 
utes and pour into glasses. 

— ^Mrs. C. S. Graves. 



Orange and Rhubarb Marmalade 

Cut 4 oranges in half, remove the pulp with a spoon. 
Trim off the yellow rind, being careful not to get any 
of the white. Boil % cup of the rind, cut in small 
pieces, with 1 cup water and % tsp. salt, until tender, 
add 3 cups sugar, 4 cups rhubarb, and the orange pulp. 
Cook slowly until it begins to look clear, add 3 more 
cups sugar and boil 10 minutes longer. Pour in jelly 
glasses and seal with paraf^ne. Makes 7 glasses. Pine- 
apple and raisins may be added for a change. 

— Mrs. L. Scharstein. 

287 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Orange and Peach Jam 
1 peck ripe peaches, % dozen oranges. Equal amount 
of sugar by weight. Peel oranges, cook the peel until 
tender, changing the water 3 times. Chop all fine, add 
sugar and boil 20 minutes. Seal in glass jars. 

—Mrs. U. G. Buck. 

Peach Conserve 

Twelve peaches, 4 oranges, 2 lemons, 1 cup almonds, 
all sliced thin. Add equal amount of sugar and cook 
% of an hour. — Miss B. King. 

Pear Conserve 

5 pounds hard pears. Cover with 5 pounds sugar. 
Let stand over night and add, 2 lemons, juice and rind, 
2 oranges, % pound raisins, walnut meats. Cook as for 
any jam or conserve. — Mrs. H. G. Smith. 

Dried Peach Conserve 

V2. pound dried peaches, 1 pint cold water, 1 orange, 
1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup raisins, juice of 1 lemon, nuts 
if desired. Soak the peaches over night. In the morning 
add the other ingredients, except nuts. Simmer IV2 
houi*s. Add nuts 15 minutes before taking from fire. 

—Mrs. H. R. Putnam. 

Quince Honey 
6 pounds sugar, 3 pints boiling water, boil 20 min- 
utes. Grind through food chopper, 5 quinces and 3 sour 
apples; add to syrup and boil 20 minutes longer. Seal 
in bottles or jars. —Mrs. F. Vescelus. 

288 



NBiaHBORHOOD COOit BOOK 

Rhubarb and Raisin Marmalade 

To 1/^ lb. raisins, chopped, add 11/2 lbs. rhubarb. Boil 
with just enough water to prevent burning, for Yo hour, 
add 1% lbs. sugar, cook until thick as jelly. Add the 
juice of 1/^ lemon and a little grated rind a short time 
before taking from fire. Makes 5 glasses, 

— Mrs. L. Scharstein. 

Rhubarb Marmalade 

5 pounds rhubarb, peeled and cut in small pieces, 5 
oranges, cut in small pieces, 1 large pineapple, chopped 
fine, 1 quart water. Add equal amount of sugar by 
weight, and let stand over night. Boil slowly until it 
thickens, about 2 hours. 

— Mrs. Geo. F. Tyson. 

Rhubarb Marmelade 

3 lbs. sugar, 1 qt. cut up rhubarb, 4 oranges. Put 
the rhubarb with the sugar and add the oranges cut up 
fine. Cook until it jellies. Put up in glasses and store. 

— Mrs. 0. Carlson. 

Red Pulp of Watermelon Conserve 

Break or cut all the red tinged pulp, weigh ; to each 
4 lbs. of pulp, sprinkle a piece of crushed alum about the 
size of a hazel nut. Add 2 lbs. sugar, soak over night, 
when juice will be extracted. Before cooking add 1 
entire lemon; cook until quite thick. Pour into jelly 
glasses and cover with paraffin. 

— Carrie C. Ware, St. Louis, Mo. 
289 



NEiaHBOBHOOD COOK BOOK 

Winter Jam 

3 pints canned pineapple, 1 lb. dried apricots, cups 
sugar, juice of 2 lemons. Soak apricots over n,ight and 
cook well in morning without sugar. When done put 
through sieve, drain juice and thoroughly chop pine- 
apple. Add this to apricots and boil before adding sugar 
and lemon juice. Cook until of desired thickness. 

—Mrs. Ed. Holtz. 

Orange and Peach Jam 

I peck i;ipe peaches, y^ doz. oranges, equal amount 
of sugar. Peel oranges, cook the orange peel until tender, 
chauging the water 3 times. Add the cooked peel to the 
other fruit and chop all fine. Add sugjar and, bpil 20 
minutes. Pack in jars and seal. 

—Mrs. U. G. Buck. 



.1 ' • 



290 



Candies 



291 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



CANDIES 



Brazilian Caramels 
1 cup hrown sugar, 1 cup Karo syrup, 1 cup cream. 
Boil to hard ball stage. Add 1 tsp. vanilla, 1 cup 
chopped Brazil nuts. Pour into pans and cut when 
partly cooled. — Mrs. J. C. Murley. 

Butter Scotch Candy 

1 cup granulated sugar, 1 cup white corn syrup, 1 
tsp. vinegar. 

Boil all together until it becomes brittle when 
dropped into cold water. Then add 1/2 cup butter. 

Pour thinly on buttered pans, mark quickly, as it 
hardens fast. —Mrs. Lorenzen. 

Fondant 

2^2 lbs. sugar, II/2 cups hot water, 14 tsp. cream of 
tartar. 

Stir until boiling point is reached. Boil without 
stirring until soft ball stage is reached. When boiling, 
keep sugar from side of pan by having a cloth wrapped 
around fork and dipped first in cold water. 

Pour on platter and let cool a few minutes, then work 
with spatula until white and creamy. Work with your 
hands as soon as possible until it is smooth. Shape and 
let cool. If fondant becomes hard while working, remelt 
over hot water. Flavor before removing from stove. 

—Miss Mabel Langill. 
293 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Fudge 

2 cups granulated sugar, 1 tbsp. cocoa, 1 cup milk, 1 
tbsp. butter, 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Mix sugar, cocoa and milk. Cook until it forms a 
soft ball when tried in cold water. Add butter just 
before it is done. "When done, put' in a pan of cold 
water to cool. Add vanilla and beat until thick and 
creamy. NUts may be added w^hile beating. 

— Feme Leaf Olsen. 



Chocolate Fudge 

2 cups white sugar, I/2 cup milk, % cup water, 2 tsp. 
butter, ^ square bittqr chocolate, flavoring. 

Mix the. sugar with the liquid thoroughly. Heat 
slowly until the soft ball stage. Add the butter and 
flavoring and set aside to cool. Then beat the mixture, 
not to the sticky stage, but until it has a creamy con- 
sistency. — Margaret Bottorff. 



Cocoa Fudge 

3 cups sugar, 5 tbsp. pocoa, 1 cup milk, 2 tbsp. butter, 
1 tsp. vanilla. 

Put sugar, cocoa and milk into a pan, stir and boil 
until it makes a soft ball in cold water. Take from the 
fire, add butter and vanilla. Then stir until creamy. 

Pour on buttered plates and cut in squares. 

— Mrs. Lyman A. Harrington. 

294 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Cocoanut Fudge 

21/^ cuis sugar, 1 <iup milk, 2 tbsp. butter, 1 cup 
cocoanut, % tsp. vanilla. 

Put sugar and milk in pan, and boil until it makes a 
soft ball in cold water. Take from fire, add butter, 
vanilla and cocoanut. Stir until creamy. 

— Mrs. Lyman A. Harrington. 

Divinity Fudge 

2 cups sugar, i/^ cup white corn syrup, I/3 cup hot 
water, 2 egg whites, 14 tsp. cream tartar, flavoring. 

Boil sugar, syrup and hot water until it threads. 
Whip egg whites with cream of tartar. Into the stiffly- 
beaten egg whites gradually pour hot syrup beating 
constantly. Add flavoring, whip until cool. Drop by 
spoonfuls on buttered pans. — Mrs. Canole. 

Divinity Fudge — With Fruit . 

2% cups sugar, 2 egg whites, i/^ cup Karo corn syrup 
(white), 14 cup boiling water, 1/2 cup each of candied 
pineapple and cherries, nut meats (chopped), i/^ tsp. 
each of almond and vanilla flavoring. 

Mix sugar, water and syrup, and boil until it forms 
a soft ball in cold water. In the meantime, beat well the 
whites of the eggs. Pour half of the mixture on the 
egg whites, beating vigorously. 

Put the remaining half on the stove and cook until 
a hard ball is formed in cold water. Then add to the 
rest of the mixture. Beat until stiff and dry. Add 
fruit and flavoring and drop on oiled platter. 

* — Miss Laura Langill. 

295 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Divinity Fudge 

2 cups sugar, y^ cup white Karo syrup, i/l> cup water, 
1 cup nut meats, 2 egg whites, vanilla. 

Cook until it forms a soft ball in cold water. Pour 
over stiffly-beaten egg whites and beat well. Add nuts 
and vanilla, and when it starts to stiffen, pour on a 
buttered platter and mark into squares. 

— Genevieve Gustafson. 

Maple Fudge 

1 lb. maple sugar, % cup cream and piece of butter. 
Boil until it forms a soft ball and beat. 

— ^Mrs. J. C. Murley. 

Nut-Caxamel Fudge 

3 cups browTi sugar, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 cup milk, % 
cup nuts, flavor with vanilla. 

Cook sugar, butter and milk until it threads. Take 
from fire, add flavoring and nuts, beat all together. 
Pour into buttered pan. When cool, cut in squares. 

—Mrs. A. E. Duffell. 

Heavenly Bliss 

2 cups white sugar, y^ cup boiling water, i^ cup 
syrup, 1 tsp. vanilla, 1 cup chopped nuts, whites of 2 
eggs. 

Boil sugar, water and sjn*up until it crisps when 
dropped in cold water. Add vanilla and nuts to stiffly- 
beaten w^hites of eggs. Pour hot sjTup over all, and beat 
until stiff. Turn into bread pan and when cold, cut 
into squares. — Mrs. Margie Moore. 

296 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Molasses Candy 

Line the bottom of a buttered pan with fresh roasted 
peanuts. Bring to a boil 1 cup sugar, II/2 cups molasses, 
V2 cup milk, 2 squares of chocolate, piece of butter. 
When a little of the syrup hardens in cold water, add 
vanilla and pour over peanuts. — Margaret W. Smith. 

Peanut Brittle 

1 lb. of sugar, 1 qt. peanuts shelled and chopped fine. 
Sprinkle lightly with salt. Put sugar in saucepan, 
place on fire and stir constantly until melted to a syrup. 
The minute it is melted add nuts and pour into warm 
buttered pans. Cut in squares before cold. 

— ^Mrs. E. Walder. 

Penuchi 

2 cups white sugar, 2 cups brown sugar, 3 cups milk, 
pinch of salt, piece of butter, 1 cup nuts, 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Cook over slow fire (stirring continually), to the soft 
ball stage. Place in pan of cold water to cool, then 
flavor. 

Add nuts and beat until creamy. 

—Margaret W. Smith. 

Candied Orange Peel 

Boil skins of 6 oranges until tender, drain and re- 
move all white portions of skins. Cut skins in narrow 
strips. 11/2 cups sugar, % cup water, boil until it threads, 
add orange strips. Boil from 5 to 10 minutes, remove 
strips and roll in granulated sugar. 

— Mrs. Edward Walder. 
297 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Sugured Orange Peel 

Cut peel into strips I/2 inch wide, and 2 inch long. 
Cover with water and let stand 1 day. To each cup of 
peel, use 1 cup sugar. 

" Put in a granite kettle and cover with water. Let 
it boil slowly about 3 hours. Let syrup drain off, then 
turn out on a platter and stir in all the granulated sugar 
it will absorb. 

When cold the sugar should be in little crystals all 
over it. — Mrs. Lyman A. Harrington. 



Popcorn Nougat 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup corn ^yrup (white), 14 cup water, 
1 cup cocoanut, 1 tsp. lemon extract. 

Bring candy to a boil, add the cocoanut and 2 cups 
popcorn. Cook until it forms a hard ball and add lemon. 
Pour out to cool. Break with sharp blow. 

— Mrs. J. C. Murley. 



Sea Foam 

2 cups sugar, % cup water ( dissolved), y^ cup Karo 
corn syrup. 

Boil until it reaches the hard ball stage. Let cool, 
then beat into it well-beaten whites of two eggs. Drop 
on waxed paper. — Mrs. W. H. Blake. 

298 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Cream Taffy 

3 cups hot water, 6 cups sugar, 1/2 tsp. cream of tar- 
tar or 2 tbsp. vinegar, butter size of an egg. 

Put into sauce pan in order named. Boil over slow 
fire but do not stir. To test, dip out syrup with a clean 
spoon each time, into ice water and when it begins to 
break, the candy is done. As soon as it cools, at can be 
pulled. Use different flavors and colorings. If candy 
seems a little hard, cocoa may be added, as cocoa softens 
the taffy. _Mrs. J. C. Murley. 

/ Cream Taffy 

2 cups granulated sugar, 1 cup water, 1 tbsp. vinegar, 
1 tbsp. butter. 

Boil until it becomes crisp in cold water. Pour out 
on buttered platter and pull when cool. Add flavoring 
while pulling. _Miss Lillian Leaf. 



299 



Beverages 



301 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



BEVERAGES 



I'U' 



Coffee 

To one cup even full of dry coffee, ground as fine as 
granulated sugar, add 6 cups of water. (Maintain this 
proportion if larger or smaller quantity is desired.) 

Place coffee in pot and add boiling water, be sure 
Avater is both fresh and boiling. Boil coffee and water 
together for 5 minutes, not longer. Now pour into pot 
a large tbsp. of cold water. This will f dt^e the grounds to 
the bottom. An amber clearness may be secured by the 
use of the white of an egg. '^ * 

Iced Cocoa 

Make cocoa to serve 6 people, following your own 
taste as to quantity of cocoa used. While hot, add 1 cup 
cream, 10 marshmallows, 1 tsp. vanilla and a pinch of 
salt.,. , . . 

Cool and ice. Do not serv^e with whipped cream. ^, 

— Mrs. J. C. Murley. 

Grape Frappe 

4 cups water, 2 cups sugar, 2 cups grape juice, 1 cup 
orange juice, % cup lemon juice. 

Make a syrup by boiling the water and sugar 15 
minutes. Add juices, cool and strain, then freeze. 

— Mrs. L. Shellberg. 

303 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Grape Juice 

To a basket of grapes, allow 1 quart of water. Re- 
move from stems, mash and cook in a little water until 
soft. When cool; press through jelly bag. To each 
quart of juice, allow 1 cup sugar. Return to vessel, 
bring to boiling point and skim. Seal in very hot 
sterilized bottles. —Mrs. L. Scharstein. 



Egg Lemonade 

Beat 1 egg until thick, using an egg beater. Add the 
juice of 1 orange and 1 lemon and sweeten to taste, using 
powdered sugar. Pour into glass, % full of finely 
crushed ice. Place on a plate covered with lace paper 
doily and serve with straws. This is a very refreshing 
beverage. — Mrs. C. M. Parrish. 



Lemonade Syrup 

Cook 3 cups sugar with 1 cup water until it forms a 
soft ball. Pour this over the juice of 6 lemons and 2 
oranges. Cut the pulp and skins into small bits; cover 
with 1 cup sugar and let stand for I/2 hour. Then add 
1 cup water, stir and press thoroughly and drain off 
the juice. Add this to the syrup. This will keep for 
several days in a cool place. To be diluted before serv- 
ing. Preserved strawberries, cherries, or a cup of grape 
juice added to each quart gives a delicious flavor. 

—V. A. K. 

304 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Currant Puncli 

This can be made by diluting currant syrup, or by 
using the uncooked juice with sugar and water to taste. 

Made from the syrup, it will have a richer color and 
is of surpassing flavor. Serve with a marshmallow in 
each glass. — Mrs. C. A. Klein. 

Fruit Punch 

4 oranges, 4 lemons, 2 cups sugar, 1 quart ginger 
ale, 1 pint grape juice, 4 quarts water. 

Grape, currant, or elderberry jelly may be used in 
place of grape juice, and 1 tbsp. of Jamaica Ginger may 
be used in place of Ginger Ale. 

— Mrs. George F. Tyson. 

Grape Juice Punch 

Make ordinary lemonade, add the juice of 2 oranges, 
a little pineapple syrup and a quart of grape juice. Put 
on ice and serve cold. —Mrs. E. Walder. 

Grape Juice Punch 

1 cup grape juice, 1/2 cup sugar, juice of 1 orange 
and 1 lemon, 1 pint water. 

Mix well and serve in glasses % filled with crushed 
ice. —Mrs. C. A. Klein. 

Pineapple Punch 

1 qt. cold water, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup orange juice, I/2 
cup lemon juice, 2 cups chopped pineapple. 

Boil water, sugar and pineapple 20 min. Add fruit 
juices, cool, and strain and dilute with ice water. 

— Mrs. J. L. Denman. 
305 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Delicious Iced Tea 
To make real iced tea, make just a little tea, very, 
very strong. Pour into a pitcher of cold water, while 
the tea is still lukewarm; squeeze 4n the juice of half a 
lemon. It mixes better when not too cold. Now comes 
the most important part. Leave the half lemon in as the 
rind will give the drink that fruity flavor so refreshing 
in summer. Add the ice when serving. 

— A Friend. 



Iced Tea 

Place several sprigs of mint in a container, add 
tea and hot water. In 5 minutes strain. Mix fruit 
juices, lemon, orange, pineapple, pear, cherry or berries 
(not grape juice). 

Use equal amounts of fruit juices and strong tea. 
Add a few tbsp. Grenadine symp. 

Dilute with ice water, not more than a quantity equal 
to that of the mixture. 

— ^Mrs. J. C. Murley. 



Balfour Tea 

2 tbsp. tea, 1 quart boiling water, 1 quart ginger ale, 
2 to 3 cups sugar, 6 lemons, 6 oranges, 1 can shredded 
pineapple, 1 quart water. 

Steep tea with the boiling water for 6 minutes. Boil 
rind of 2 oranges and 2 lemons in water. When cool, 
add lemon and orange juice, shredded pineapple and 
sugar. Just before serving add ginger ale and crushed 
ice. — ^Mrs. S. C. Wood. 

306 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

For a Child's Party 

Masli sour cherries and bananas (about equal 
amounts) with a wooden potato masher, very thoroughly. 
To a pint of the fruit add the juice of two lemons, sugar 
and water to suit the taste. Steam the mixture and chill. 
Serve with a cherry in each glass. 

—Mrs. J. C. Murley. 



307 



Serving for 100 



309 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



SERVING FOR 100 



Steamed Brown Bread (See page 15). 

Brown Bread 

14 cups buttermilk, 4i/o cups sugar, 2l^ cups mo- 
lasses, 26 cups graham flour, 13 tsp. baking powder, 2i/^ 
tsp. soda, 1 tsp. salt. For 100. 

—Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

Nut Bread 

10 eggs, 21/^ cups sugar, 10 cups milk, 18 cups flour, 
18 tsp. baking powder, 4 cups nuts, 1 tsp. salt. 
Let rise 45 minutes and bake 1 hour. For 100. 

—Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

English Buns 
2 cups butter, 8 cups sugar, 1 cup currants or raisins, 
2 tsp. salt, 6 cups milk, 3 yeast cakes. 

Mix altogether into a soft dough and let rise. Roll 
out into biscuits and let rise again. Brush tops with 
sugar and milk, and bake. For -100. 

— Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

Ginger Bread 

7 cups molasses, 7 cups brown sugar, 7 cups boiling 
water, 4 cups shortening, 12 cups flour, 11 tsp. soda, 
2 tsp. ginger, 2 tsp. cinnamon, l««tsp: salt, 12 eggs, beaten 
light and folded in. For 100. 

— Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

311 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Spice Cake 
6 cups brown sugar, 3 cups sweet milk, 3 cups mo- 
lasses, 5 cups raisins, 5 cups currants, 12 eggs, 3 tsp. 
soda in cup of hot water, 1 tsp. each of cinnamon, cloves 
and nutmeg. For 100 people. 

— Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

Scotch Scones 
16 cups flour, sifted with 6 tsp. baking powder. Rub 
into the flour, 3 cups of butter, adding milk to bind the 
paste. Roll out % of an inch thick, cut in three-cornered 
pieces and bake in a quick oven. For 100. 

— Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

Nut Cookies 
iy2 cups butter, 3 cups sugar, 10 tbsp. milk, 5 eggs, 
2 tsp. baking poAvder, 2 cups nut meats, chopped fine, 
10 cups flour, flakes 150. 

— Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

Raisin Cookies 
1 cup lard, 1 cup butter, 3 cups sugar, 2 cups sour 
milk, 2 cups chopped raisins, 2 tsp. soda, % tsp. cinna- 
mon, flour enough to make a dough. For 100 people. 

— Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

' Heavenly Delight 

5 quarts whipped cream, 2 small cans of pineapple 
(cut fine), 1 small bottle of cherries, ^^ lb. nuts (cut 
fine), 2 pkgs. of marshmallows, cut in fourths. Whip 
cream and mix thoroughly. Serves 100. 

— Mr, Jos. Moore, Chef. 
312 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

Doughnuts 
4 cups sugar, 3 cups buttermilk, 8 eggs, 3 tsp. soda, 
11/4 tsp. salt, 1 grated nutmeg, 2 tbsp. hot lard. 
This makes 7 dozen. (Very fine.) 

— Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 



Baked Ham 

2 hams, sliced, 2 cups brown sugar, 2 tbsp. mustard, 
2 quarts milk. Serve 100. 

— Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 



Steamed Salmon Loaf 

15 cans salmon, 7 cups butter, 15 cups cracker 
crumbs, 18 eggs, 1 tsp. salt. Mix together, form in loaves 
and steam 1 hour or more. Serves 100 people. 

— Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

Oat Meal Muffins 

12 cups sour milk, 20 cups outmeal, 12 tbsp. sugar, 
6 eggs, 1 cup butter, 8 cups flour, 12 tsp. soda, 1 tsp. 
salt. For 100. —Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

Russian Rocks 

6 cups brown sugar, 21/2 cups butter, 12 eggs, 2 tsp. 
soda, 1 tsp. each of cinnamon and cloves, 12 cups flour, 
2 cups milk, i/^ cup walnuts, 1 cup raisins. 

Drop from a spoon. Makes 150. 

— Mr. Jos. Moore, Chef. 

313 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



SATISFACTORY FOOD COMBINATIONS 

With soup, pass olives and celery or radishes. 

With MEATS and FISH, it is customary to serve 
one starchy vegetable and one green vegetable; the 
latter is often served in the form of salad. 

With ROAST BEEP, serve potatoes, Franconia 
style, mashed or scalloped and any one of the follow- 
ing vegetables: egg plant, cauliflower, Brussels 
sprouts, tomatoes stewed or scalloped, onions, squash, 
green corn, beet gi'eens, new beets, peas, salsify and 
macaroni. If a salad is the choice, let it be of endive, 
cress, celery or lettuce with French dressing. Brown 
saxide and grated horse-radish are suitable accompani- 
ments. 

DESSERT: Pineapple Tapioca Whip, Pineapple 
Sponge, or a similar light dish. 

With BEEF STEAK or LAMB CHOPS, let potatoes 
be baked, French fried or German fried or creamed, 
or sweet potatoes baked or broiled; the other vege- 
tables should be the same as for roast beef. 

DESSERT: Cottage pudding. Prune Whip. 

With STEWED or BRAISED BEEF, serve boiled 
potatoes, parsnips, turnips, carrots, onions, peas or 
beans. 

DESSERT : Apple, prune or cranberry pie, ginger- 
bread or chocolate cake with whipped cream. 

With BOILED MUTTON or LAMB, serve boiled 
potatoes, turnips, salsify, onions, carrots, cauliflower, 
Brussels sprouts, sting beans, and caper sauce. 

314 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

DESSERT: Serve rice pudding, baked tapioca 
pudding or fruit shortcake. 

With ROAST LAMB, serve potatoes, green peas, 
string beans, spinach, beet greens, summer squash, 
new turnips, asparagus, and mint sauce or mint jelly. 

DESSERT: Custard or rhubarb pie, custard souf- 
fle, chocolate eclairs, brown betty with rhubarb, 
sponge cake with strawberries, prune roly-poly 
(baked). 

With ROAST MUTTON, choose from the same 
vegetables as for roast beef; serve also red currant 
jelly, baked bananas, bananas or pineapple fritters. 
Instead of dessert, have toasted crackers, celery and 
cheese. 

With ROAST CHICKEN or TURKEY, serve mash- 
ed potatoes, sweet potatoes Southern style, hominy, 
rice, squash, onions, celery raw or creamed, sweet 
pickle, jelly or cranberry sauce. 

DESSERT : Ice Cream, sherbet, pumpkin pie, 
steamed pudding. 

With ROAST PORK, serve white potatoes or sweet 
potatoes, squash, spinach, creamed cabbage, scalloped 
tomatoes, parsnips, and apple sauce, especially cider 
apple sauce. 

DESSERT: Baked- Indian pudding, bread pudding 
with jelly and meringue, ginger ice-cream, pumpkin 
pie, prune and orange marmalade, stewed figs with 
lemon jelly. 

With BREADED CHOPS, mutton, lamb or veal, 
pass scalloped potatoes, and tomatoes. 

315 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

With HOT BAKED HAM, serve currant jelly 
sauce, sweet potatoes Southern style, spinach, sprouts 
or cauliflower. 

With BOILED FRESH FISH, serve boiled potatoes, 
peas, parsnips, pickle or egg sauce. 

DESSERT : Rhubarb or lemon pie, pineapple Bavar- 
ian Cream, coffee jelly with whipped cream, straw- 
berry shortcake, cottage pudding, with strawberry 
hard sauce. 

With FRIED FISH, serve peas, French fried pota- 
toes, (with no sauce) creamed potatoes or potatoes 
in a sauce, and cucumbers with French dressing. 

With BAKED FISH, serve HoUandaise or drawn 
butter sauce and sliced tomatoes or cold slaw, mashed 
potatoes and peas. Cheese croquettes or sotiffle, 
crackers, and celery may follow. 

With CREAMED FRESH FISH, have baked pota- 
toes and buttered beets; follow with toasted crackers, 
cheese, lettuce salad with French dressing. 

With CHICKEN CROQUETTES, provide peas. 

With FISH CROQUETTES or LOBSTER CUT- 
LETS, serve sauce tartare. 

With RICE, HOMINY, or MACARONI CROQUET- 
TES, cheese sauce is appropriate. When served as a 
vegetable with meat, the sauce served with the meat 
suffices. 

With HOT APPLE PIE, BAKED INDIAN PUD- 
DING or BAKED APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING, 
serve vanilla ice-cream, w^hipped cream, or simply 
cream and sugar. 

316 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

HELPFUL HINTS 

Put baking soda in a mustard plaster to keep from 
blistering. 

Put baking soda in flax seed meal poultice to make 

it light. 

Sprinkle bread crumbs thickly over meat roast be- 
fore putting in oven. Looks well — ^tastes better. 

The best duster for velvet or plush is a piece of 
clean chamois leather, wrung out of cold water. 

To restore gilt frames, rub with a sponge moistened 
with turpentine. 

For setting color in goods: 1 tsp. sugar of lead 
in a pail of hot water. Let cool and soak a half hour. 

When starching colored goods, dissolve a piece of 
alum the size of a walnut in every pt. of starch, and 
the colors will stay bright a long time. 

When packing away winter clothes, fill little 
cheesecloth bags with this mixture, and place among 
the clothes: 1 oz. each of powdered cloves, caraway 
seeds, nutmeg, mace, cinnamon, and tonca beans. To 
these add 6 oz. of orris root, (powdered). 

Cracks in rubber overshoes may be mended with 
surgeon's adhesive plaster. The heels will not wear 
out so quickly if a piece of rubber. or thick felt is 
fitted in and covered with the plaster. 

A thin cold starch makes an excellent window wash. 
Rub it over the glass with a clean piece of cloth; then 
rub the glass dry with a piece of chamois. 

To make whipped cream of evaporated milk, scald 
a small can of milk in double boiler. Chill it on 
ice and beat until stiff. Add 3 tsp. powdered sugar 

and vanilla. 

317 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 

To make beef more tender and improve flavor, soak 
for an hour in 1 qt. of water and 1 tsp. vinegar. 

"When putting curtains on brass rods, put a thimble 
over the end of the rod, and curtain will go on 
smoothly. 

An easy way to remove Wall Paper is to brush with 
alum water; let dry and paper will come off easily. 

Six cloves added to vegetable soup will give a 
new and delicious flavor. 

Milk will keep sweet longer in a shallow pan 
than in a pitcher. 

A small quantity of green sage or cinnamon in 
a pantry, will keep out red ants. 

The hand should be dipped in cold water before 
making pastry. 

If vegetables boil dry and scorch, remove instantly 
from the fire and place kettle in a shallow pan of 
cold water. Let it stand 2 or 3 minutes before 
taking up the food. There will be little or no taste 
of scorched food. 



TRY THESE: 

Rubbing tough meat with a cut lemon. 

Bacon fat for frying chicken and game. 

Steaming a stale loaf of bread to freshen it. 

Dipping sliced onions in milk before frying. 

Fried sweet apples when you have fried liver or 
kidney. ^ ^1 

Heating dry coffee before pouring on the water. 

Pouring vinegar over fresh fish to make the 
scales come off easily. 

Adding lemon juice to the water in which rice is 
boiled to keep the grains separate. 

318 



NEIGHBORHOOD COOK BOOK 



THE WOMEN'S WORK 

Meetings of the Union are held on the first and third 
Thursdays of each month. On the first Thursday the 
general business meetings are held and sewing is done 
either for the church or charity. On the third Thursday 
the missionary departments hold their meetings, for 
which programs of real interest are provided. 

The Home Service Department, as its name indicates, 
gives the first attention to the needs of the local church. 
Something of the aggressive character of its work may 
be noted in the prompt payment of a five thousand dollar 
pledge to the Building Fund. 

Much of the work of thi«. department is done through 
five circles. These hold frequent meetings which promote 
sociability and enlist more workers and add to the earn- 
ing power of the Home Service Department. 







319 



/ --< 



Jt 




(j EMIL 



V 







^' r^ 



i?/ 



V 



'■-■n 



'^-''-< 6l^ 



t? 



tnu^ 



PRESS OF 
RSLUND PRINTING COM^. 
01 PLYMOUTH COURT -^_ 



CHICAGO 




f ( 



J- 




(J.: 




iViX^ 



f 



J- 



u; 









4 ^^^--^ ^^v^ ^-^^ 

/Xct!^^ ^ --^!-^i«^ CLi.<^ a,^^£j -f- 
^^ X^. ±:ii^ ,s^ 





