

MP! 




Baper Sliel 1 

I?© CcLYL 



4 ^* - 




A - ^Pfl^^'ISlaSff'-ltecaai Ore. 



800 PROVED PECAN RECIPES 
Their Place in the Menu 



800 PROVED 
PECAN RECIPES 

Their Place in the Menu 

By 

5,083 HOUSEWIVES 

in America and abroad, who in response 
to a request for their choicest proved' 
pecan recipes, submitted over twenty-one 
thousand, covering every phase of every 
meal, for all seasons of the year 




21,000 recipes by skilled dietetians has 
led to the selection of the more than 
eight hundred shown herein, as the very 
cream of those submitted 



BOUND IN WASHABLE COVER 
Keystone Pecan Research Laboratory 

Manheim 
Lancaster County, Pennsylvania 

PUBLISHED 1925 



Copyright 1925 
by 

BLAM G. HESS 



Printed in U. S. A. 
by 

Innes & Sons 
Philadelphia 



Typography and Illustrations 
Arranged by 
Charles Blum, Philadelphia 



KEYSTONE PECAN 
RESEARCH LABORATORY 
MANHEIM, PENNSYLVANIA 



Founder, Elam G. Hess 

President Keystone Pecan Company 

Vice President for Pennsylvania of the National 

Pecan Growers* Association 

Head Dietitian, Grace Cornell Thompson 

Graduate, Battle Creek College, School of Home 
Economics 

Assistants : 

Rebecca Kates Barnes 
Graduate, Drexel Institute 

Mary Hershey 

Graduate, Mt. Holyoke College 
Anna Nissley 
Elva M. Brossman 
Mabel Hinkle 



Vll 



Acknowledgment is made here of the pioneer work 
of those eminent food authorities, whose researches have 
directed attention to the value in the dietary of nuts, and 
of the pecan in particular. 

Dr. John Harvey Kellogg, Head of Battle 
Creek Sanitarium 

Bernarr Macfadden, Editor of Physical 
Culture Magazine 

C. Houston Goudiss, Food Economist 

Prof. F. A. Cajori, Yale University 

Prof. H. Harold Hume, Formerly State 
Horticulturist, of Florida 

Albert G. Stillwell and Thomas S. Glad- 
ding, Chemists, New York City 

W. D. Salmon and Clara W. Livingstone 

Dr. B. Raymond Hoobler, of Detroit, 
Women's Hospital and Infants' Home 

W. O. Atwater, Dept. of Agriculture 

Edwin Jackson Kyle, Dean of the School 
of Agriculture in the Agricultural and 
Mechanical College of Texas 

H. P. Stuckey, Director of the Georgia 
Agricultural Experiment Station 

W. G. Friedemann 

A. C. Deiler 

Dr. Lafayette B. Mendel 

Douvel 

Menaul 

U. S. Department of Agriculture 
Luther Burbank 



. 

• • • 

Vlll 



This laboratory was opened— -October | 

1, 1924 — to check and test over 21,000 1 

Pecan Recipes, submitted by more than | 

5,083 women as their favorites. The very 1 

cream of these for the average home will I 

be found in the over 800 recipes in this j 

book. * I 



7 1925 



NOV l , ^ 

FOREWORD 

Since this is the first large recipe D^^6<WnO^^' 
which is devoted exclusively to pecan recijSSJ^he-- 
questions naturally arise, "Why issue such a book? 
How were these pecan recipes evolved?" 

It is the aim of the first two chapters to answer 
those questions simply and clearly, and of the last 
chapter in this book to give typical menus for the 
various seasons, showing how the food values 
found in the recipes may best be distributed. 

It is strange that nuts — a staple food of the 
primitive man — are only in recent years receiving 
the recognition they merit as a prime source of 
those health-giving food elements required by the 
human system. The most recent researches in 
nutrition and in medicine emphasize the value of 
the low protein diet, and this advanced knowledge 
directing attention anew to the value of nuts, 
draws particular attention to the pecan. For the 
pecan, while lower in total protein, is especially 
high in those choicest proteins essential to growth. 
The pecan, moreover, is highest among all nuts in 
fats and carbohydrates, the heat and energy ele- 
ments ; and has both mineral and vitamin content 
of exceptional desirability. 

Even before the researches of nutritional 
experts had established the reasons why pecans 
were so advantageous as a source of all 'round 
staple diet, there were many who by experience 
had learned the advantages of pecans in their own 
homes. The demand for a comprehensive group 
of the best pecan recipes resulted, despite the fact 
that the limited supply of these nuts had restricted 
their use in many homes to eating raw, and in a 
few desserts and salads. The Keystone Pecan 
Company secured over 21,000 recipes in response 
to an announcement calling on women to send in 
their favorite proved pecan recipes. They were 
all checked and tested in the Keystone Pecan 
Research Laboratory, by graduate dietitions, care- 

ix 



fully selected from the leading institutions in 
America devoted to home economics. 

As a result of this checking, testing and retest- 
ing, the eight hundred representative recipes 
shown herein were selected for their value to the 
average housewife, although this by no means 
exhausts the highly meritorious recipes received. 

In all these recipes you will find pecans used as 
the main source of protein, supplemented by milk, 
eggs, cheese, vegetables and cereals. 

The use of condiments has been almost entirely 
avoided, and lemon juice has been substituted for 
vinegar. No animal products other than milk, 
cheese, butter and eggs are used, and with highly 
satisfactory results, as experience will show you. 

The family of four has been the basis on which 
most of the recipes were planned, making pro- 
portionate increase or decrease an easy matter. 
The exceptions to this rule are usually found under 
desserts and cakes, where convenience of making 
and desire to use at more than one meal apply. 

This book is not designed as a general cook 
book; but presupposes a knowledge of cookery on 
the part of the reader. General directions pre- 
facing the chapters are brief, and the recipes are 
stated in the shortest form consistent for clear- 
ness, materials used being listed in order of use 
as far as possible. Standard methods of level meas- 
urement are used throughout and should be fol- 
lowed to insure best results. 

The small letter t in any recipe therefore 
indicates level teaspoonful. 



The capital letter T indicates level table- 
spoonful. 

The capital letter C indicates level cupful. 

Fractions, such as V2 T indicate one-half 
of a level tablespoonful. 

x 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



PA 

CHAPTER 

I FOOD VALUES 

Protein and The Protein Ration. Carbohydrates. 
Fats. Salts, or Minerals. Vitamins. 

II PECANS 

A Staple Food fitting the Low Protein Diet. Their 
analysis and calorie value. Comparisons with other 
foods. In protein— amino acids. In digestible tats. 
In quality carbohydrates. In chemical salts— iron, 
lime, etc. In Vitamins— A and B. Health-giving 
qualities. Purity. Combinations with other foods. 

Ill CLASSES OF FLOUR ••• 

Wheat, rye and corn flours, for bread making. 
The wheat kernel, its composition. Wheat varieties; 
hard, or spring wheat; soft, or winter wheat. 
Characteristics of bread and pastry flours. Qual- 
ities of whole-wheat, Graham, bran and white 
flours. 



THE CLASSES OF BREADS 

Preface to Chapters IV and V 

IV PECAN YEAST BREADS 

The value of nut breads, and their broad use. 
The advantages of pecan breads. Recipes for pecan 
white breads, whole-wheat, Graham and bran 
breads. Fruit breads, coffee cakes, buns and rolls. 

V PECAN QUICK BREADS 

Made by physical leavening, or using baking 
powder. White, whole-wheat, Graham, bran and 
rye breads. Fruit breads. Biscuits, rolls, muffins, 
tea cakes and coffee cakes. Pecan short cakes and 
griddle cakes. 

VI PECAN CAKES 

Pecans, the unequalled decoration for cakes. 
Pecans in loaf, layer and other large cakes. Pecan 
cookies, drop cakes, macaroons and small cakes. 
Cake fillings and frostings. 

xi 



VII PECAN CANDIES 145 

The candy with an unrivaled record of nearly 
two centuries of popularity — pecan pralines. Pudge, 
fondant, caramels and creams made nutritious and 
delectable by pecans. Pecan hard candies. How to 
salt nuts. Pecan candy novelties. 

VIII PECAN DESSERTS 167 

How to add zest and nutritive value to your 
favorite desserts — puddings, custards, ice creams, 
sherbets and ices. Recipes for cooked, steamed, cold 
and frozen desserts. The newest refrigerator cakes. 

IX PECAN ENTREES 207 

The pecan as a food staple, in the main dish of 
the meal. Pecan loaf, croquettes and souffles. 
Panned entrees and egg dishes. Pecans with vege- 
tables. 

X PECAN PIES AND PASTRIES 253 

How to make flaky, crisp pie crust. Pie fillings 
which are different, more appealing and more 
healthful. Dumplings, tarts and small pastries. 

XI PECAN SALADS 275 

The road to health — use more greens and pecans. 
The appetizing way to use uncooked foods, proof 
against destructive bacteria during digestion. Fruit 
salads. Vegetable salads. Jellied salads. New, 
delicious salad dressings with increased food value. 

XII PECAN SANDWICHES AND RELISHES 309 

Sandwiches and canapes which meet every need 
from the automobile outing and the school child's 
luncheon, to the afternoon affair or tea party. 
Tasteful, appetizing, nourishing and healthful. How 
to use pecans with fresh fruits, dried fruits, jams, 
jellies and marmalades. Cheese and pecan combina- 
tions. 

XIII MISCELLANEOUS PECAN FOODS 327 

How to use pecans in soups, cereals, cocoa, con- 
serves, preserves, fritters and fancy toasts to add 
nutriment and remarkable appeal to the appetite. 

XIV BALANCED MENUS 349 

How to assure a properly balanced diet at all sea- 
sons of the year ; making use of the most plentiful 
fruits and vegetables with pecans to complete food 
elements needed. Typical breakfasts, luncheons, 
dinners, or suppers for Spring, Summer, Autumn 
and Winter. 

• * 

Xll 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



PECAN SANDWICH LOAF (color) Frontispiece 

Subject Facing Page 

THE KEYSTONE PECAN RESEARCH LABORATORY 

Exterior View VIII 

Interior View IX 

YEAST BREADS— Plain and Fancy 40 

Butterscotch Buns Fruit Bread 

Coffee Cake Graham Bread 

QUICK BREADS . 41 

Boston Steamed Bread Philadelphia Dutch Bread 

Graham Date Gems Waffles 

PECAN STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE (color) 56 

CAKES 88 

Birthday Cake Mocha Chocolate Cake 

Cherry Angel Cake Upside Down Cake 

SMALL CAKES 89 

Doughnuts Marguerites 
Macaroons Small Cakes 

LAZY DAISY AND CHOCOLATE SQUARES (color) . . . 112 

CANDIES 146 

Caramels Glace Basket 

Citron Meringue Log Cabin Roll 

Fruit Candy Pralines 

FRUIT PASTRY 147 

DESSERTS 168 

Jellied Cubes Porcupine 
Neapolitan Sponge Refrigerator Cake 

Patrician Washington Pie 

DESSERTS 169 

Cantaloupe Sundae New England Plum 

Canton Sherbet Pudding 

Marshmallow Parfait 

BAVARIAN CREAM (color) 176 

ENTREES 208 

Asparagus Entree Casserole of Rice 

Golden Rod Omelet 

• • » 

xm 



ENTREES 209 

Beets Stuffed with Rice Creamed Celery in 

Cereal Rolls with Banana Croustades 

Lima Bean Cakes 

RICE IN PEPPER CASES (color) . 241 

PIES 254 

Chiffon Lemon Pie Cocoanut Custard Pie 

Pumpkin Pie 

PASTRY 255 

Apple Dumpling Cheese Straws 

Chantilly Tarts Lemon Tart 

Strawberry Pie 

SALADS 276 

Asparagus Stuff ed Tomato Keystone Salad 

Salad Orange Cup 

Frozen Pimento Cheese Salad 

SALADS 277 

Apple Sandwich Salad Log Cabin Salad 

Fruit Cup Mint Jelly Salad 

GRAPE FRUIT BASKET SALAD (color) 288 

POTATO SALAD 300 

SANDWICHES 301 

PECAN ROSEBUD AND CREAMS (color) 304 

SANDWICHES 310 

Club Sandwiches Miscellaneous Sandwiches 

Spearmint Sandwiches 

CANAPES AND RELISHES.... 311 

Cheese Canape Jellied Relish 

Cream Cheese Relish Miscellaneous Canapes 

Toast Sticks 

VARIED USES 328 

Cereal Cream of Pea Soup 

Cocoa Grape Conserve 

Strawberry Conserve 

VARIED USES 329 

Breaded Cheese Balls Star Vegetable Salad 

Sweet Potato Loaf 

CHEESE IN RAMEKINS 350 

VEGETABLES WITH PECANS.... 351 

PECAN RAISIN PIE (color) 365 

xiv 



800 PROVED PECAN RECIPES 
Their Place in the Menu 



CHAPTER I 



FOOD VALUES 

PROTEIN 

and THE PROTEIN RATION 

CARBOHYDRATES 

FATS 

SALTS, OR MINERALS 
VITAMINS 



"Live not to eat, 
but 
eat to live" 



CHAPTER I 



Food Values 

Food functions in the body in three ways— to 
provide material for the growth and repair of 
the body structure; to furnish material for the 
production of energy and maintenance of body 
heat ; to regulate the activities of the body. 

PROTEIN is essential to the growth and repair 
of the body tissues. Protein is found in varying 
amounts in almost all foods, but particularly m 
nuts, milk, meat, eggs, cheese, legumes, and 
cereals. 

CARBOHYDRATES in the form of starches 
and sugars are the most common sources of 
energy. Starches are found in cereals, potatoes, 
and some other vegetables; sugars in fruits, the 
sugar cane and beet root, and the sap of the maple 
tree. 

FATS function in the body as energy and heat 
producers, and are found in nuts, milk, butter, egg 
yolks, animal fat tissues, seeds of plants, ripe 
olives, etc. 

SALTS, OR MINERALS, are necessary for 
maintaining normal body functions and in the 
formation of the bones and tissues of the body. 
The principal salts are calcium, iron, potassium, 
sulphur, sodium, chlorine and phosphorus. Salts 
are found in fruits, vegetables, milk, cereals, and 
some nuts. Alkaline salts predominate m fruits 
and vegetables and are especially valuable in 
neutralizing the acidity of the body. 

VITAMINS function in a mysterious way as 
body regulators. They are supplied in nuts, 
vegetables, milk and cereals. Cellulose and water 
are also essential body regulators, cellulose is 
found in vegetables, fruits, and cereals. 

3 



The Protein Ration 



The protein ration has been established and 
satisfactorily proved to be adequate at a much 
lower level than formerly thought necessary. 
From infancy to maturity, proMn is required 
for both growth and repair of tissues. After 
maturity, protein is required only for repair. 
Food taken in excess of the needs of the body to 
repair waste tissues, to furnish energy for work, 
and warmth, is a wasteful burden to the body and 
a handicap to normal functioning. Excess carbo- 
hydrates and fats are stored as body fat. 

Proteins are not stored in the body, but are 
used only as required to build or repair tissue, the 
excess being eliminated by the kidneys — and it is 
this necessity for eliminating excess protein in the 
average diet which overtaxes the kidneys and 
liver. Daily protein requirement is established by 
Sherman at one calory per pound of normal body 
weight. For the average person this means from 
1% to 2 ounces of protein daily — a much smaller 
amount than the average consumption. 



4 



CHAPTER II 



PECANS 

A STAPLE FOOD 

Fitting the Low Protein Diet 

THEIR ANALYSIS 
Calorie Value 

COMPARISONS WITH OTHER FOODS 
IN PROTEIN 
Amino Acids 

FATS 

Digestibility 

CARBOHYDRATES 

Quality 

CHEMICAL SALTS 
Iron, Lime, etc. 

VITAMIN 

Fat Soluble A 
Water Soluble B 

HEALTH-GIVING QUALITIES 
PURITY 

COMBINATIONS WITH OTHER FOODS 



Pecans, the balanced food for those 

who realize 
that 

"As a man eats so is he" 



CHAPTER II 



The Pecan — 
Nature's Most Highly Concentrated Staple Food 

The recognition by thinking people of pecans as 
a desirable staple food is no new thing. 

They were a staple food of the American T he 0 ^|^~ 
Indians, and the very name "Pecan" is an Indian a * d An <Jf| 
word, originally paean. From a variety of Food 
hickory, which is generally believed to be the 
pecan, the Indians secured an oil which they used 
to thicken venison broth, to season hominy or corn 
cakes, and of which they also made a drink. How 
many centuries back the Indian use of pecan 
dates, none can tell, but the pecan tree has been 
fixed by fossil remains of trees and nuts, as far 
back as the lower Cretaceous period. 

Bancroft, recording the discovery of the Mis- 
sissippi by De Soto tells how in 1541, De Soto 
came upon a region where the fruits were abund- 
ant, "the pecan nut, the mulberry and two varie- 
ties of plums furnished the natives with articles 
of food." 

Xavier Charlevoix, French missionary and 
traveller, who descended the Mississippi to New 
Orleans in 1722, considered the pecan of sufficient 
importance to publish a very definite description 
of these nuts in his "History of New France," 

7 



commenting on their fine delicate flavor. And in 
1758, Le Page du Pratz, after eight years spent in 
exploring this territory, described the pecan very 
accurately, praised its flavor and value, and spoke 
of the Pecan Pralines made out of these kernels 
by French colonists. 

A Favorite How Washington first became acquainted with 
Washington the pecan nut and its food value, we do not know ; 

but we do know that DeCourset, brother of the 
famous botanist, who served under Washington, 
wrote that that great American "always had his 
pockets full of these nuts and he was constantly 
eating them." Washington himself, in his diary, 
writes of planting around his place at Mt. Vernon 
several pecans which had been sent him, and when 
you visit Mt. Vernon you will find these three 
grand trees on the lawn southwest and east of the 
Mansion. Charles Sprague Sargent, director of 
the famous Arnold Arboretum in his report on 
"The Trees at Mt. Vernon," calls attention to the 
fact that according to Washington's Diary these 
trees were planted March 25, 1775, and are there- 
fore, as far as known, the oldest of the trees 
planted by Washington. He shows that the height 
of these trees is respectively 97, 98 and 86 feet; 
placing them among the giant trees on the prop- 
erty, and says despite the fact that they are a hun- 
dred and fifty years old, "The Three Pecan trees 
are in good condition and unless blown over or 
injured by gales, probably have not lived out half 
their lives." 

8 



Another point of interest regarding these trees 
is the fact that they came to Washington from 
Jefferson, who apparently first distributed pecan 
trees from the Mississippi Valley in the Eastern 
States. In 1784, Jefferson published a technical 
description of the pecan tree, in his "Notes from 
Virginia/' 

Tracing the history of the pecan we note that ^ e T y^ e 
those who have used the pecan nut most regularly 
as a staple food are its most enthusiastic advo- 
cates. The southern housewife, using the product 
of her own or nearby pecan trees, has as a rule a 
number of favorite pecan dishes which are a 
source of pride and satisfaction to her, and of 
health to her family. The relatively limited sup- 
ply of the better pecan nuts has tended to restrict 
the spread of pecan cookery; as far back as 
September 19, 1914 the Country Gentleman said, 
"Tyler is a Texas town with about 12,000 people 
who eat a carload of pecans every year. If New 
York ate pecans at the same rate, it would con- 
sume our whole crop." Yet we know of many 
families whose per capita consumption of pecans 
per year is five to ten times the Tyler average. 

What are the food properties which make the 
paper shell pecan so popular with all who use it 
as a staple food? 

The delicious flavor of the pecan which has been Its Kernel 
commented upon for several hundred years past Eaten and 
cannot fully answer that question. It is true that Digested 

9 



A Valuable 

Staple 

Food 



Percentage 
Analysis 
and Calorie 
Value 



the pecan is considered by many to be finer in 
flavor than the finest candy, and that the pecan 
kernel is recognized generally as the finest of 
dessert nuts. It is true that the paper shell makes 
it possible to remove whole kernels which appeal 
to the eye by their golden brown beauty; which 
appeal to the appetite by their delightful flavor; 
which are so palatable and so full of healthful 
nutriment that they meet with universal favor. 

But it is from their exceptional food balance, 
their health-giving qualities, that pecans have 
their greatest advantage as a staple food. The use 
of such nuts for diabetics has long been recom- 
mended by capable members of the medical pro- 
fession, and the Journal of the American Medical 
Association for September 21, 1918, said, "There 
are abundant indications that nuts, which have 
long found a valued place in the dietary of the 
diabetic without detriment to his health, will grow 
in popularity as foods for the well." Comment- 
ing on the experiments of Professor Cajori, of 
Yale University, the same publication speaks of 
"those properties of nuts which remove them from 
the category of luxuries and place them on the 
list of substantial components of the day's ration." 
"It should be remembered," it adds, "that bulk for 
bulk they belong among the most nutritive foods 
ordinarily available." 

According to the analysis of Atwater, the pecan 
kernel contains : 

11.0% protein 13.3% carbohydrates 

71.2% fat 1.5% ash 

10 



The analyses show also that pecans contain 3633 
calories to the pound. Compared to cereals, which 
have an average calorie value of 1654, we find the 
pecan twice as high in value, largely because of 
their fat — or oil — content, which content has been 
shown to have exceptional value as a preventative 
of constipation. 

Compared to fresh fruits and vegetables, with 
a value of 300 calories to the pound, we find pecans 
not only twelve times as high in value ; but also 
containing more protein, of the finest type. Nor 
is the pecan lacking in mineral salts and vita- 
mines, as will be seen later. 

It is little wonder that the pecan has been called g|g' 8 Mogt 
"Nature's finest, most concentrated food product," Concentrated 
that attention has been called to it as Nature's Food Product 
answer to the nutritionist's call for a safe food 
which is properly balanced, and fitted to the cry- 
ing need for a low protein diet. For it is to be 
remembered that in these days when telephone, 
automobiles and labor-saving devices cut down the 
amount of replacement required by the human 
system, to follow the heavy protein diet of our 
forefathers is a certain method of overtaxing 
one's kidneys and leading to disastrous results. 

If one will note that the average man requires Perfect 
less than 3,000 calories per day for the production Protein 
of energy, and less than a quarter pound of pro- Diet 
tein for tissue building, it is easy to see that two 
or three ounces of pecans in the daily diet, supple- 

li 



mented by fresh fruits and vegetables will supply 
his needs in these respects, and will give him more 
of the toning up effect of mineral salts and vita- 
mines than any other diet. It is to be remembered, 
however, that pecans are a highly concentrated 
food, and therefore it is well to assure a supply 
of cellulose and water, in which they are naturally 
lacking, through the use of green vegetables and 
fruits. 

The most advanced students of nutrition have 
not been satisfied to measure food alone by calorie 
value. They have not been satisfied to know only 
how much protein a certain food contained, they 
have asked, "What is the nature of the protein? 
How readily available is that protein?" They 
have not been satisfied to compare the pecan with 
the egg — usually considered as the acme of food 
value — and note that the pecan has almost an 
equal percentage of protein ; nearly twice as high 
a percentage of fat, and a far higher calorie 
value. And the more they investigate, the more 
evident does the superiority of the pecan as a 
staple food become. 

Consider for a moment the protein of the pecan. 
For centuries it has been said that "bread is the 
staff of life," and that whole wheat bread is the 
most healthful form of bread. Yet the percentage 
of protein in a pecan is practically equal to the 
percentage of protein in whole wheat flour; and 
is almost double the percentage in buckwheat or 
rye; and one and almost a half times the percent- 

12 



age in rice or cornmeal. Forgetting for the 
moment the fat — or oil — content of the pecan 
which is forty to fifty times as great in percentage 
as in any of these cereals, making the pecan a 
balanced food, let us study briefly the nature of 
the proteins and their availability. 

There are in natural protein foods certain Contain The 

, Important 

acids, called amino acids, which the human system Amino 
requires in the manufacture of muscle tissues for Acids 
growth and replacement. There are forty of these 
amino acids in existence, of which eighteen are 
essential to the human system, and the pecan con- 
tains those most essential of the entire forty. It 
is important to note that Douvel, Menaul and 
Cajori have found the pecan nut of high nutritive 
value because of its proper type of protein content. 
The results of their experiments agree in showing 
the protein of the pecan to be of very choice char- 
acter ; and confirm the experience of earlier inves- 
tigators who referred to the protein of nuts as 
vegetable casein because it so closely resembled 
the protein of milk in character. 

Among the amino acids most largely present in 
the protein of pecans are those very important 
ones, tyrosin, tryptophane and histidine. 

Trytophane is one of those essential consti- Do^You^ 
tuents of body tissues which the human system Trytophane? 
cannot manufacture, and which therefore must be 
found in the food we eat — hence the importance 
of the pecan as a source of this important amino 
acid. 

13 



Assists 

Children's 

Growth 



A Full 

Replacement 

For 

Milk 



Lysine is another amino acid of great impor- 
tance, because experiments have shown that chil- 
dren fed on foods lacking this amino acid are 
stunted in growth; and cystine also is important 
for physical development. The pecan nut has 
both these amino acids present in relatively large 
quantities ; and it is possibly due to this fact that 
the experiments of Dr. Hoobler, of Detroit, in the 
Woman's Hospital and Infants' Home (recorded 
in the Journal of the American Medical Associa- 
tion, August 12, 1917) showed that for nursing 
mothers a diet consisting largely of nuts (50%) 
was far superior to any other dietary, and in 
every particular, giving nearly 15% greater flow 
of milk, with 30% greater food value. 

Dr. Kellogg, head of the famous Battle Creek 
Sanitarium, emphasizes the fact that nuts were 
the chief staple in the diet of primitive man and 
urges that they be adopted now as the best source 
of protein because "Nuts are free from trichnae, 
tape worm and parasites, and from the possibility 
of carrying specific disease." "Nuts," he adds, 
"are in good health when gathered and remain so 
till eaten." "Besides," he says, "nuts furnish an 
abundance of lime and are also rich in iron of the 
finest quality." 

Continuing his comparisons of nuts with the 
usual sources of protein and fats, he says, "The 
nut is equal to milk in nutritive value, and indeed, 
is superior in the fact that while containing a rich 
supply of lime, it is also richly supplied with iron, 
which is deficient in milk." "The pecan may thus 

14 



be regarded as a substitute for milk," he con- 
cludes. 



While building human tissue with protein, we 
must be careful not to introduce those substances 
(called purins) which cause deterioration of the 
tissues, leading to gout and similar diseases. 
Uric acid is formed from these purins, with a 
toxic effect upon the system which shortens life. 
In pecans we have a source of that complete pro- 
tein needed by the human system for building and 
repair of tissue, a purer, sweeter source of easily 
assimilated fat and an absence of the destructive 
"purin base." 

In view of the foregoing facts, we are able to fading SUC " 
realize with Dr. Kellogg that such nut protein is Material 
the best of all sources upon which the body may 
draw for its supplies of tissue-building material. 

While pecan protein and fat require no cooking 
to make them digestible and available for the 
human system, they are the basis of many appetiz- 
ing cooked and baked foods of high nutritive 
value, as experience on a continued diet of the 
recipes in this book will demonstrate. 

Pecan fats are more digestible than animal Pecan 
fats, as disclosed by the researches of Dr. Kellogg, 
and other foresighted students of nutrition. The 
primitive Indians, to whom Sturtevant refers as 
subsisting largely on pecans, and as expressing 
from these nuts an oil used also in their other 
foods, were simply by instinct and observation 
following the course which modern study of 
nutrition values indicates. 

15 



Easy to Over ten years ago Professor H. Harold Hume 

directed attention to the oil content of the pecan 
— richer than in any other nut — and since that 
time nutritionists have studied the digestibility of 
this fat. With the fat— or oil — content of the 
pecan its leading food principle, it is important 
to know that this fat "exists in a finely divided 
state and in the chewing of the nuts a fine emul- 
sion is produced so that they enter the stomach in 
a form best adapted for prompt digestion." 

Think what it means to you to secure "the fat 
that grows on trees" in the pure, rich, creamy 
kernel of the paper shell pecan. Think how per- 
fectly Nature has protected this easily assimilated 
fat from contamination, by surrounding the 
plump kernels with an air-tight shell, which is 
easily broken when you are ready to eat. Think of 
the economic advantages of securing such a food 
without sacrificing the source of the food, for the 
pecan tree, which supplies this year a rich harvest 
of these finest of nuts, lives for generations and 
yields larger and larger harvests as time goes on. 

In addition there are many advantages in palat- 
ability and nutrition which commend the fat from 
pecans as most desirable. It is widely known that 
certain fat foods are far more palatable than 
others. Have you noted that the scientific 
explanation of this is that those foods which con- 
tain fats with the lowest boiling points are the 
most palatable, and the most easily digested. 

Back of this fact stands the simple essential 
knowledge of the three great food principles, 
PROTEIN, FAT and CARBOHYDRATES. 

16 



The protein, as you have noted, is for tissue 
building and replacement. It is not stored in the 
system. 

Carbohydrates, derived from the starch and 
sugar in our food, produce energy; and when 
eaten to excess are stored in the system in the 
form of body fat; assuming, of course, proper 
chewing of the food to permit the enzymes to 
break up the starches. Carbohydrates in proper 
amount and ratio are quickly burned up in the 
digestive system and in their burning, oxygen is 
made available for the burning of the fat foods. 
This explains the natural disinclination to eat cer- 
tain fat foods in any quantity except along with 
foods which contain a large ratio of carbo- 
hydrates, and this is a natural tendency of great 
value to us because the higher the melting point of 
the oil in a fat food, the more is it true that it 
burns only in the flames of carbohydrates. 

While it is true that the pecan fat — or oil — has Pecan Fat3 
a low melting point and can therefore be assimil- Assimilated 
ated with a minimum of carbohydrates, the 
course followed in this recipe book has been that 
of balancing the pecan content with ample, or 
more than ample carbohydrate. 

Remembering that fat is needed in the diet as 
fuel food, to maintain body heat and serve as a 
source of energy in muscular work and in the vital 
activity of body functions; we must also realize 
that fats produce two and a quarter times the 
amount of energy produced by carbohydrates and 

17 



must maintain a proper balance in quantity of 
fat used. 

"The fat of pecans" state Stuckey and Kyle, 
"are among the most digestible of all forms. 
They have a low melting point." Hence their ease 
of absorption by the human system. 

Assurance "The fat of pecans much more closely resembles 
Constipation human fat than do other fats ; and the lubricating 

and healing qualities of pecan oil have been com- 
pared to olive oil by many food experts. "We 
should eat the nuts more largely as a staple food," 
says Goudiss, "not alone because of their high food 
value, but quite as much because of their health- 
promoting qualities. By reason of their large con- 
tent of vegetable oil they are a natural laxative 
and those who eat them regularly are seldom 
troubled with constipation." 

The digestibility of pecan fats — and pecans as 
a whole — is now an established fact, and they are 
largely used in leading sanitaria as a corrective of 
troublesome cases of intestinal derangement, and 
as a preferred source of fat and protein. 

"Cajori's studies lead him to the conclusion that 
if nuts are eaten properly and used in the diet as 
are eggs, meats and other foods rich in protein, 
they have a physiological value on a par with that 
of staple articles," says the Journal of the Ameri- 
can Medical Association in its editorial comment 
on the experiments of Professor Cajori, of Yale 
University. 

18 



Of carbohydrates the pecan has a relatively low Balancing 

Pecans 

percentage, but, as has been seen, the natural use 
of the pecan in connection with fruits, vegetables 
and also with cereal foods, as outlined in the chap- 
ters which follow, gives a well-balanced diet. As 
is widely known the foods containing carbo- 
hydrates are plentiful and relatively inexpensive, 
therefore the relative deficiency of pecans in 
quantity of carbohydrates is no disadvantage. 

If considered from the standpoint of quality of Quality of 

,,,,,, , Carbohydrates 

carbohydrates, the pecan assumes an importance —Not 
which is too often overlooked. Nearly one-third Quantity 
of its total carbohydrate content consists of 
sucrose and invert sugars and among all forms of 
carbohydrate none are more highly desirable for 
high dietetic value than these two which are so 
abundantly found in the pecan. It is to be remem- 
bered also that these are the quickest source of 
energy production and this research by Friedman 
discloses not only the advantages of the pecan 
from the standpoint of quality of its carbo- 
hydrates, but also indicates that the deficiency of 
the pecan in carbohydrates is in its lack of starch, 
an element which can be readily and cheaply 
secured from potatoes, rice and all the cereals. 

The relatively small percentage of cellulose in 
pecans and the absence of water are in no sense 
disadvantageous when one is considering their use 
in a balanced diet such as is outlined in the fol- 
lowing chapters of this book. In fact, it is obvious 
that the pecan could not be the most highly con- 

19 



centrated of all natural food products if it were 
not for the fact that nature had eliminated in its 
composition these two elements of bulk which are 
elsewhere found so commonly and in such great 
abundance that they are readily supplied from 
other sources. 



The Better 
Source of 
Protein, Fat 
and Mineral 
Salts 



It is remarkable that, highly concentrated as 
they are, pecans furnish, with the exception of the 
bulky types of carbohydrates, practically all the 
food essentials, and in a ratio so perfectly adapted 
to the low protein diet which is the present-day 
recommendation of the leading students of nutri- 
tion. When it was said in the Congressional 
Record for June 12, 1912, that "It will not be long 
before the pecan will be extensively used not only 
as substitute for certain classes of food, such as 
meats, but also a substitute for food of all classes," 
it may have been difficult for the average person 
to accept that statement. Today the pecan is not 
considered as a substitute for meat, nor as a sub- 
stitute for eggs, milk or other staple food products 
of the past, but is accepted as a better source of 
protein and fat than meat or eggs; as a better 
source of fat and other food properties than but- 
ter, and as superior to milk not only in protein and 
fats, but also in mineral salts as well. 

The substitution of milk for animal flesh has 
been advocated by some as an advantageous 
method of securing the necessary protein, fat and 
mineral salts with less disadvantage in regard to 
putrefactive germs and less possibility of carrying 

20 




disease. If we are to follow this reasoning 
logical conclusion we will see that the pecan pos^ 
sesses advantages compared to milk, and that it 
supplies protein of such a character that from the 
earliest investigators it has been considered as 
equal to that secured from milk. The pecan sup- 
plies also fats which are easily digested and bene- 
ficial to the human system, just as milk supplies 
these same elements to a lesser proportionate 
degree. 

The pecan is vastly superior to milk in that it Superior 
carries a very rich supply of lime and is also well i° Lime 
supplied with iron, which is totally lacking in milk. and Iron 
When we remember that the average human body 
contains five to six pounds of mineral salts and 
that there is a daily loss which must be made good 
by the food we eat, it is important to consider any 
food from the standpoint of its content of mineral 
salts. The principal mineral salts are iron, cal- 
cium, magnesia, phosphates and iodine. 

Of these mineral salts, iron is the most essen- 
tial, for without it we cannot properly utilize our 
food. The lack of iron leads to anemia and gen- 
eral weakness and it is the organic iron which 
we get in our foods which is used by the body to 
construct blood cells, not the inorganic form given 
medically in an attempt to bolster up a deficiency 
of organic iron in our foods. 

What is the standing of the pecan in this most 
valuable mineral salt? The pecan contains a rich 
store of iron. One ounce of pecans will supply 

21 



Practically 
As Much 
Iron As 
Spinach 



nearly 5% of the total day's iron ration, which is 
more than 2^ times as much as that supplied by 
fruits of an equal weight, three times as much as 
that supplied by vegetables, greater than that of 
cereals and even superior to the average meats. 
You hear of dates, figs, prunes, olives and spinach 
mentioned for their high content of iron — do you 
realize that pecans belong in the same leading 
class, being practically equal to any of these in 
iron content? Compared to raisins, tapioca, fresh 
lima beans, green peas, graham, rye and entire 
wheat bread, pecans are considerably higher in 
iron. Pecans contain more than twice as much 
iron as macaroni, cheese, cabbage and potatoes, 
almost three times as much as cornmeal, almost 
four times as much as lettuce, almost four times 
as much as lemon juice, more than five times as 
much as celery and turnips, more than six times as 
much as tomatoes, almost nine times as much as 
grape fruit, more than ten times as much as milk 
and almost thirteen times as much as oranges. 
It is only the lack of knowledge on the part of the 
general public regarding the high content of 
pecans in iron and the other desirable mineral 
salts that leads to the large use of other products 
far less efficient. 

Lime is next in importance among the mineral 
salts, because lime makes up three per cent, of the 
total body weight, gives solidity to the bones, con- 
trols the contraction of the muscles and regulates 
the heart beat. Lime controls also the coagula- 
tion of the blood and when a blood test demon- 

22 



strates its deficiency, it has been customary to 
administer certain medical forms of lime, such as 
calcium lactate, or to place the patient upon a diet 
of skim milk and other dairy products and selected 
greens and cereals high in the lime content, or, as 
is the most advanced practice, to increase greatly 
the nut diet. 

Obviously lime is essential to growing children, qJ^Li 0 
who are building their bony structure, and it is and Supply 
well that Nature has placed in the pecan, which g^ es 
appeals so strongly to children, a lime content 
which is practically fifty times as great as its iron 
content, important as its iron content is. Milk is 
advocated as a food for growing children because 
of its lime content, yet the pecan presses it closely 
in this respect; while the pecan contains as much 
lime as does cream, which is so generally fed to 
children. The pecan contains more lime than 
celery, eggs, oatmeal, lima beans, dates, raisins, 
dried apricots or spinach. It contains almost 
twice as much lime as cabbage, more than twice as 
much as lettuce, more than three times as much as 
graham bread, orange juice and green peas, 
almost four times as much as rye bread and lemon 
juice, more than four times as much as whole 
wheat bread, grape fruit and macaroni, almost 
five times as much as cornmeal, almost six times 
as much as butter and peaches, more than six 
times as much as potatoes. It is obvious, there- 
fore, that there is no reason why anyone should 
suffer from a deficiency in lime in the diet if one 
eats pecans along with properly selected fruits and 
vegetables — especially green vegetables. 

23 



Among the mineral salts iodine has come in for 
a great deal of discussion recently, particularly 
where a tendency toward goitre exists, and while 
the researches into the position of the pecan in 
this field have not gone so far as to establish its 
position with certainty, the researches of Deiler 
in regard to the properties of pecan oil show a 
remarkable value in iodine absorption, which 
property of pecans may possibly be discovered to 
be a distinct asset in the present campaign which 
is so vigorously being waged against abnormal 
functioning of the thyroid glands. 



Content Having seen that the pecan possesses decided 

value in connection with its content of the prin- 
cipal mineral salts, having noted the advantage of 
pecan oil in its greater ease of digestibility and the 
advantages of pecan protein in quality, the ques- 
tion naturally arises, "Where does the pecan stand 
in vitamin content?" 

Vitamins function in the human system in a 
mysterious way and yet their value as body regu- 
lators is beyond question. It is certain that there 
can be no normal life and growth without them 
and that they are an essential constituent of nerve 
tissue. It has been demonstrated that if there is 
an absence of vitamins in the food there is a 
degeneration of nervous tissue. 

The Medical Research Council of London, 
reported the high vitamin content found in nuts, 
as Goudiss points out. 

24 



Coward & Drummond reported an abundance of 
Vitamin B in nuts ; but in walnuts, almonds, brazil 
nuts, peanuts and Barcelona nuts did not report 
any material amount of Vitamin A. In this 
research for Vitamin A they had not examined 
the pecan. 

The most recent research conducted discloses Pecans 

Contain 

that the pecan does contain an appreciable con- vitamin A 
tent of Vitamin A — as shown by the report of the 
Salmon & Livingstone experiments in the March 
1925 issue of the Journal of Home Economics. 
Vitamin A is present also in butter, milk, cream, 
egg yolks and in greens — therefore the use of 
pecans in the dietary in combination with those 
foods, as found in this recipe book, is obviously a 
double safeguard assuring^ ample supply of this 
needed Vitamin A, and of the associated Vitamin 
D, which is now considered as more closely affect- 
ing rickets. The high lime content of the pecan is 
again advantageous here. 

It is significant also that in reporting their 
experiments on white rats which led to the dis- 
covery of an appreciable content of Vitamin A in 
pecans, Salmon & Livingstone directed attention 
to the fact that the addition of 50% of cod liver oil 
or butter to the ration did not perceptibly better 
the growth, showing that the slowing up in rate of 
growth had not been due to a lack of fat soluble 
vitamins. 

25 



When it is remembered that Vitamin B is so 
generally accepted as of great importance, the 
position of the pecan as a safe source of Vitamin 
B, accepted by the leading nutritionists, is well 
worth noting. In 1920, Cajori stressed the 
advantages of the pecan in supplying Vitamin B, 
and researches since then have emphasized the 
importance of that statement. He showed that 
one gram of pecan kernels per day furnished suf- 
ficient quantity of Vitamin B for the normal 
growth of the white rats, in his report in the 
Journal of Biological Chemistry. 

Turning to the recent experiments by Salmon 
& Livingstone we find further confirmation of his 
statement. Their tests were made on both pigeons 
and rats, with every care to check their accuracy. 
Two pigeons which were fed on a diet lacking 
in Vitamin B — the anti-neuritic vitamin — lost 
weight rapidly and died of polyneuritis in 18 to 
28 days. 

The other birds were fed pecan kernel in vary- 
ing ratio and observations made regarding the 
development of polyneuritis. Those receiving but 
a half gram to a gram daily declined slowly, but 
not as fast as those entirely lacking pecans. As 
definite symptoms of polyneuritis developed, the 
pigeons were restored by administering pecan 
kernel, with an increase in the daily dose. In 
most cases 2 to 3 grams of pecan restored these 

26 



e 



birds to apparently normal condition, despite th 
fact that where the pecan ration had been omitted, 
death followed quickly. In other cases an 
increased ration of pecan achieved the same 
results. 

As little as 1 gram of pecan per day served to 
overcome marked losses in weight, even though 
polyneuritis might develop slowly. 

It was observed that if 17 to 20% of the food Pecans ^ 
taken daily was macerated pecan kernel (or 1% Nerve 

„ , . , Deterioration 

of the weight of the bird) the birds were pro- 
tected against polyneuritis. 

Similar experiments on white rats showed that 
pecans to only 10% of the daily ration were 
required to protect them against polyneuritis and 
that a 60% pecan ration resulted in appreciable 
growth. 

Such experiments regarding this highly desir- 
able Vitamin B would seem to show that pecans 
have great value in overcoming mal-nutrition, 
boils, Beri Beri and similar ailments. 

Therefore it is doubtful whether the average How to be 
human being can better safeguard himself on Needed 

"Vitamins 

assurance of all needed vitamins than by the sim- 
ple expedient of making pecans a part of his daily 
staple food, along with daily use of accessory 
foods of high vitamin value, such as fresh fruits 

27 



and vegetables, and bran. White bread and 
polished rice are deficient in vitamins, but the use 
of whole wheat bread or bran bread and unpol- 
ished rice overcome this disadvantage and one 
soon learns to prefer them. 

It is well to consider at this time the question 
of foods which are complements of the pecan. 

It is true that pecans are low in the bulky carbo- 
hydrates ; that is, they contain no starch and little 
sugar, but this deficiency can be easily supplied 
by fruits. By proper combinations of pecans, 
fruits and vegetables, the total needed supply may 
be obtained. 

Of the three great food principles required for 
human efficiency — protein, fats, and carbo- 
hydrates — the pecan supplies two — protein and 
fats — in abundance and of excellent quality. The 
amount of protein found in fruits, with very few 
exceptions, is so small as to be insignificant; fats 
are practically wholly absent from fruits, while 
sugar and dextrin are abundant. Fruits are thus 
the natural complement of pecans. 

Purity of Pecans are in good health when gathered and 

remain so until eaten. Nature has provided the 
pecan with "cold storage" of its own — a snug shell 
that protects it so that it comes to you in a perfect 
state of preservation, good to eat at all times. 

28 



A man might keep his pecans in an ordinarily 
cool place, and yet when cracked and opened, the 
meat of these pecans would be just as free from 
injury or contamination, just as pure, wholesome 
and delicious as though they were kept in the most 
expensive, white-tiled refrigerator. 

Pecans are clean, fresh, palatable, and sterile. 
They are free from waste products, uric acid, 
urea, trichinae, tapeworm, and other parasites, as 
well as other infections, due to specific organisms. 
They are aseptic, free from bacteria, and do not 
readily undergo decay either in the body or out- 
side of it. 

Can anyone imagine a more ideal food to please 
the palate? There is never any doubt about its 
absolute purity and freshness and cleanliness. 



Pecans should be used more largely as a staple 
food, not alone because of their high food value, 
but quite as much because of their health-promot- 
ing qualities. By reason of their large content of 
vegetable oil they are a natural laxative, and those 
who eat them regularly are not troubled with con- 
stipation. 

The kernel of one of the improved pecans is 
almost entirely pure nutriment. In the raw con- Pecans 
dition it affords a fairly complete and balanced 
food for human beings. Pecans are not a luxury, 

29 



Pecans as 
A Body 
Regulator 



but a highly concentrated and nutritious staple 
food. 

In nutritive value the pecan far exceeds all 
other food substances. For example, the food 
value per pound is 3,633 calories, while the aver- 
age of the same quantity of cereal is 1,654 calories, 
half the value of the pecan. The average food 
value of the best vegetables is 300 calories per 
pound, and of the best fresh fruits 278 calories 
per pound, or one-fourth that of pecans. 

Keystone Pecans are more than a table deli- 
cacy. They are a nutritious and wholesome food 
for everyday use. They are rich in the elements 
that build strength and vigor. For health-giving 
nutrition and delicious taste, there is no food to 
equal the golden-brown, sun-mellowed kernels of 
the pecan, full of those vitalizing qualities that 
create that feeling of new energy that comes from 
better balanced, more efficient food. They give 
you a new glow of health from head to foot. They 
add to your store of vitality and give you real 
nutriment that makes fresh "life cells. ,, Pecan 
meat is a blood and tissue builder in wonderfully 
concentrated form. It gives you the benefit of 
high food value, with little digestive effort and 
no poisonous waste. 

The foremost dietitians and food experts of 
today agree that of foods which supply the ideal 
health diet, pecans rank very high. 

30 



When pecan kernels are eaten raw they should J^tica- 
be masticated and insalivated until reduced to a 
smooth paste, to insure the prompt admixture and 
action of the digestive fluids, and render them 
readily digestible. Mastication is largely a 
mechanical process, and may be facilitated by 
crushing the nut into a paste or grinding it into 
a fine meal. 

Pecans eaten whole or in broken pieces should 
be thoroughly masticated. Combined in foods, 
they may be grated in a grating machine, which 
flakes but does not crush, or, they may be used in 
broken pieces. Pecans are easily digested, the 
high fat content being of a nature which is readily 
assimilated and very laxative in effect. They may 
be eaten in their natural state, or combined with 
vegetables, cereals, cheese, etc., to form an entree 
—the main dish of a meal. The consumption of 
pecans in whatever manner must be recognized 
as an intake of protein and fat, and the use of 
other proteins and fats regulated in accordance. 
Considering the supplementary protein of the 
average mixed diet, from 2 to 3 ounces of pecans 
daily would insure adequate protein. 

Pecans are rapidly displacing other foods in the Popularity 
broader light of the saner ideas of nutritious and 
healthful diet. The product of the pecan trees 
has come to be recognized as the choicest of all 
foods. The public is today better informed 

31 



respecting the high food value of pecans, and 
especially in view of the steadily increasing cost 
of other foods, this nut is rapidly gaining higher 
appreciation. Pecans are becoming more and 
more a leading constituent of the domestic bill of 
fare. They are used for hundreds of different 
dishes in the diet of modern families. The pecan 
is no longer regarded as a dainty suitable only for 
dessert, hence the demand which has led to the 
publication of this first large book of pecan 
recipes, including every phase of the meal ; as one 
food expert described it, "from soup to nuts." 



32 



CHAPTER III 



CLASSES OF FLOUR 

TYPES OF FLOUR 
THE WHEAT KERNEL 

COMPOSITION 

VARIETIES 
CHARACTERISTICS OF FLOUR 
CLASSIFICATION OF FLOUR 



"From care in small 
details success is 
achieved" 



CHAPTER III 



Classes of Flour for Various Uses 

In the baking of breads, quick breads, cakes, 
pies and pastries, there is too general an impres- 
sion among most women that "flour is flour," 
therefore any kind of flour will do. This failure 
to remember a few essential principles, easily- 
understood, may be the source of disappointment 
and dissatisfaction. 



For bread-making, wheat, rye, or corn flour are Types of 
available; and in all the classifications indicated JS.mlkiiig 
below. For cakes, pies and pastries the tendency 
to continue the use of wheat flour, in its white 
form, is still strongly evident ; although increased 
knowledge of food values is leading many women 
to experiment with whole wheat flour for pie 
crust. They realize that it is more difficult to roll 
into flat sheets, and handle, because of its particles 
of bran, but they sacrifice convenience in handling 
for proved increase of food value. 

Wheat flour makes the best bread; rye second 
best, but should be used in combination with 
wheat flour, or bread will be sticky and moist. 
Corn flour also gives best results used with wheat 
flour ; used alone, bread will be crumbly. 

A grain of wheat consists of an outer covering Composition 
which is removed before milling; three bran coats, 
which contain highly valuable mineral salts; the 
endosperm, made of starch, gluten, a small amount 
of protein and cellulose ; and the germ, which con- 
tains fat and protein. 

35 



Varieties of There are two varieties of wheat: First, the 
wheat hard, or spring wheat; and second, the soft, or 

winter wheat. Hard wheat contains starch in a 
lesser amount and gluten in a greater amount than 
soft wheat. Hard wheat flour is used for bread 
where the tenacious, elastic quality of the gluten 
is needed to hold up the gases which make bread 
light. Soft wheat, in which starch predominates, 
is used in making pastry flour. 

Character- Bread flour is yellowish in color and slightly 
Bread and & ritt y or granular to the touch. It passes readily 
Pastry Flours through a sieve and absorbs a comparatively large 

amount of moisture. Unless otherwise indicated, 
bread flour is used in recipes where yeast is the 
leavening material. 

Pastry flour is white in color, velvety to the 
touch, and holds its shape after pressing in the 
hand. It absorbs a comparatively small amount 
of moisture. Pastry flour makes a sweeter bread, 
and may be used to give variety of flavor, but the 
amount of liquid should be decreased. 

Classification l. Whole, or entire wheat flour, which contains 
of Flour a jj g ra i n except the outer bran coat. 

2. Graham flour, which is made of the whole 
wheat kernel and is darker in color and coarser 
in texture than whole wheat flour. 

3. White flour which is made from the starchy 
portion of the wheat, lacks the mineral salts and 
vitamins of whole wheat or graham flours. 

4. Bran, which consists of the outer parts of 
the wheat kernel, is rich in minerals and laxative 
in quality. 



36 



BREADS 

are divided into two classes : 

Yeast Breads— Chapter IV 
Quick Breads— Chapter V 

Embraced in these classifications you will find, 
as table of contents preceding each chapter shows, 
a broad range including breads, rolls, coffee cakes, 
biscuits, muffins, griddle cakes, waffles and short 
cake, etc. 

In general the ingredients of Yeast Breads and 
Quick Breads are the same— flour, salt, sugar 
(which may or may not be omitted) and a liquid, 
either milk or water. The point of difference is 
in the leavening material, the recipes m Chapter 
IV being based on yeast as a leavening material , 
those in Chapter V being based on baking powder 
and similar leavening materials. 



37 



"Bread is the staff of life" 
— but when pecans are added 
to bread, the loaf becomes 
both bread and meat, an 
almost completely balanced 
ration. 



CHAPTER IV 



PECAN YEAST BREADS 
WHITE 

WHOLE WHEAT 

GRAHAM 

BRAN 

FRUIT 

COFFEE CAKE 
BUNS AND ROLLS 



"Do you want any 
better bread than 
wheaten?" 

asks the old 
French proverb. 

"Whole wheat, with 
Pecans added," an- 
swers the nutri- 
tionist, "is better 
tasting and better 
for you." 




PECAN QUICK BREADS 



CHAPTER IV 



Pecan Yeast Breads 

The use of nuts in bread, while only widely fol- 
lowed in America in recent years, is no new idea. 

Centuries ago the natives of Spain and Italy, in Nut Breads in 
the chestnut-growing districts, prided themselves AmeriL 
on their nut bread; and the primitive American 
Indian, while he may not have had any food 
knowledge other than that which came by instinct 
and observation, ground pecans into his meal. 

What did the Indian gain by this use of pecans, Pecans for a 
compared to the far-famed chestnut breads of BXn C ed 
Europe? He secured from the pecan practically g rea d 
twice as much protein as the chestnut provided; 
and practically fourteen times as much fat. True, 
he secured only one-third as much carbohydrate, 
but the carbohydrate of the chestnut is largely 
starch, which is abundantly provided by the flour 
itself. 

With pecans added, the bread becomes bread 
and meat, a balanced ration, particularly if whole 
wheat flour is used. 

For generations there have been delicious 
Southern recipes using pecans in the breads and 
hot breads for which the Southern housewife is 
famous; the very persistence of these Southern 
cooks in using pecans in the old days, when the 
kernels were so small and the shells so hard, is a 
tribute to that high food value and that wonderful 
palate appeal which the pecan adds to bread. 

41 



Principles of In connection with the following recipes, it is 
Bread we u to remember a few basic principles of bread- 

Makmg making known to most of you ; but repeated here 

so that all may have the fullest assurance of 

success. 



The liquid used may be either milk or water. 
Milk bread is more nutritious and softer in tex- 
ture, and is preferable if it is to be eaten within 
a day or two. But milk bread dries more quickly 
than bread mixed with water; therefore a com- 
bination of milk and water is good. 

Potato water hastens the action of the yeast 
and makes a bread of excellent keeping qualities, 
but darkens the bread slightly. 

How Yeast The chemistry of bread-making is simple, and 
Works the woman with a knowledge of the principles 

involved will cease to dread the making of raised 

bread. 

Yeast is a one-celled organism of fungous 
growth which, when provided with warmth, mois- 
ture, and the proper food, grows rapidly and mul- 
tiplies. In the yeast of today, the yeast plants are 
compressed, lacking the conditions necessary for 
growth. 

The yeast cake is softened to separate the plants 
and flour is used to provide, in the starch and 
gluten, food for growth. The temperature most 
favorable for the growth of yeast is from 65° to 
75° F. 

As the yeast plant grows, chemical changes 
take place — the starch is changed to sugar, and 
the sugar to alcohol and carbon dioxide gas. The 
carbon dioxide, in its endeavor to escape, expands 
the cell walls of the gluten and raises up the 
dough. This fermentation process is called alco- 



Milk or 
Water? 



42 



holic, and if allowed to continue, it is followed by 
acetic fermentation, which is the cause of sour 
bread. The addition of sugar hastens the fermen- 
tation process. 

The dough when heated to the baking point, 
kills the yeast plant, evaporates the alcohol, 
expands the gases, and fixes the cell walls. 



1. Scald liquid to destroy organisms which ^ ro £ ess 
might inhibit the growth of the yeast plant. Bread* 

2. Add the fat and sugar, if used, and salt to 
the hot liquid, and cool to lukewarm. 

3. Add the yeast which has been dissolved in 
scalded and cooled water to which a teaspoon of 
sugar may have been added to hasten the yeast 
action. 

4. Add the flour, sifted if white, in either of the 
following methods : — 

Sponge Method — Add half the amount of flour to the 
liquid mixture, and beat thoroughly. Cover and 
set to rise in warm place until spongy and full of 
holes. Add flour enough to make a dough which 
can be kneaded. Cover and let rise until double 
in bulk. 

Straight Dough Method — Add all the flour to the 
liquid mixture, or enough flour to make a dough 
which can be kneaded. Cover and let rise until 
double in bulk. 

5. To knead — turn dough onto a floured board 
and press with ball of hand, bringing dough back 
with finger tips, doubling over and pressing again 
with the palm, using sufficient force to make the 
dough stick. Turn part way around and repeat 
folding and kneading until the dough springs back 
from the pressure of the finger and feels elastic 
and light and does not stick to an unfloured board. 
Kneading distributes the yeast plants and gives 
uniformity of texture. 

43 



6. Rising of dough. Put dough, after kneading, 
in a greased bowl three times its size. Cover with 
buttered paper and folded towels, set to rise in a 
warm place free from drafts. The back of the 
stove, on or beside a radiator, or placing the bowl 
in a larger bowl of warm water, should insure suf- 
ficient warmth for rising. 

7. Shaping loaves. Knead and shape into 
desired size by folding sides under to make the 
top perfectly smooth. Put in greased pan, cover 
and let rise until double in bulk. 

8. Baking. The average pound or pound and a 
half loaf requires 50 to 60 minutes in a moderate 
oven. 

9. After baking, remove from tins and cool on 
rack, uncovered, if you wish a crisp crust. When 
cooled, store in closely covered tin or stone 
receptacle. 



44 



Pecan Yeast Breads 



1 C. milk V2 t. salt Christmas 

1 yeast cake % C. shredded citron Bread 

2 T. water % C. currants 

2 C. flour % C. seedless raisins 

% C. shortening % C. chopped pecans 

4 crushed cardamon seeds 

Scald milk. When lukewarm, add yeast cake 
dissolved in 2 T. warm water and flour. Let rise 
1/2 hour. Add shortening, salt, fruit, pecans, and 
cardamon seeds, and knead. Shape into a loaf 
and let rise until double in bulk. Bake. 

Josephine Hermann. 

V 2 C. milk 1 egg Fruit Bread 

V2 C. sugar V2 t. salt 

V2 yeast cake ^4 t. cloves, cinnamon and 

2 T. water mace, mixed 

1% C. flour V2 C. mixed fruit (raisins, 

3 T. butter citron, currants) 

% C. chopped pecans 

Scald milk. When lukewarm, add % T. of sugar 
and yeast cake dissolved in 2 T. warm water. 
Add % C. flour. Beat well. Let rise. Add butter 
and remainder of sugar creamed together, well 
beaten egg, remainder of flour mixed and sifted 
with salt and spices, fruit, and pecans. Knead 
and set to rise until mixture has doubled in bulk. 
Bake. Emma Kahl. 

Y2 yeast cake 1 C. milk Graham Bread 

% C. white flour % C. chopped raisins 

% C. graham flour x k C. grated pecans 

V 2 t. salt % T. butter 

Dissolve yeast cake in *4 C. milk which has been 
scalded and cooled to lukewarm. Add flour, to 
which salt has been added, alternately with 
remainder of milk, using not more than % C- 
flour at a time. Put raisins through food chopper 
and pecans through nut grater and add to mix- 
ture. Add melted butter and knead well on board. 
Make into loaf and let rise until double in bulk 
and bake. Elizabeth Abney. 

45 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Graham and 
White Bread 



Oatmeal 
Fruit Bread 



% C. graham flour 
1 C. white flour 



V2 t. salt 



V2 yeast cake 
1 T. sugar 
C. milk 

V2 C. pecans grated 

Dissolve yeast and sugar in milk which has been 
scalded and cooled to lukewarm. Add sufficient 
flour, to which salt has been added, to make 
sponge. Let rise */2 hour or until bubbles form. 
Add remainder of flour and pecans and knead 
until light. Make into loaf and let rise until 
double in bulk. Bake. A. V. Long. 



V± C. milk 



V2 yeast cake 
% C. water 
2 C. flour 
Y2 t. salt 
i/i C. molasses 

Scald milk. 



1 T. butter 
% C. boiling water 
1 C. uncooked oatmeal 
C. stoned dates or 
prunes (cooked and chop- 
ped) or seeded raisins 
C. chopped pecans 

When lukewarm, add yeast cake 
dissolved in *4 C. lukewarm water, flour sifted 
with salt, molasses, and melted butter. Pour 
boiling water over oatmeal. When cool, add to 
first mixture. Add chopped fruit, and pecans. 
Knead and let rise until double in bulk. Knead, 
place in pan, and let rise again until double in 
bulk. Bake. Mrs. M. N. Fredrickson. 



White 
Bread I 



V2 cake compressed yeast 
2 T. water 



V2 t. salt 

V2 C. pecans chopped 



2 C. flour 
2 T. sugar 
2 T. shortening 
IV2 C. milk 

Scald milk and add to sugar, salt, and shorten- 
ing. When lukewarm add yeast dissolved in 2 T. 
warm water and sufficient flour to make a soft 
sponge. Cover and let rise in warm place. Add 
pecans and enough flour to make a stiff dough. 
Cover and let rise again until light. Mould into 
loaf and let rise until double in bulk. Bake. 

Mrs. M. Coachenberry. 

46 



Pecan Yeast Breads 



1 C. water 2 T. sugar White 

1 yeast cake 2 T. Crisco or butter Bread II 

2 T. water 1 C. grated pecans 
1 T. sugar y 2 C. graham flour 

2% C. flour V 2 t. salt 

Boil water. When lukewarm, add yeast cake 
dissolved in 2 T. warm water, 1 T. sugar, and 1*4 
C. flour. Beat thoroughly. Let rise until light. 
Add butter and sugar creamed together, pecans, 
graham flour, remainder of white flour, and salt. 
Knead and let rise until double in bulk. Knead, 
shape into loaf, and let rise until light. Bake. 

Mazie Nicholas. 

V2 yeast cake y 2 t. salt Whole Wheat 

2 T. warm water 1 C. white flour Bread 

V2 C. milk or water % C. whole wheat flour 

1 T. sugar y 2 C. pecans 

Dissolve yeast in 2 T. warm water. Scald milk, 
add sugar and salt, and 1 T. white flour. Let 
cool and add yeast and % C. flour and beat well. 
Let rise until full of bubbles. Add remainder of 
flour and pecans. Knead well, shape into loaf, let 
stand until double in bulk, and bake. 

Mrs. K. H. Evans. 



C. milk 2 T. lukewarm water Whole Wheat 

2 T. sugar 1 C. flour and Raisin 

V 2 t. salt % C. whole wheat flour Bread 

1 T. shortening % C. seedless raisins 

y 2 cake yeast % C. finely chopped pecans 

Scald milk and add sugar, salt, and shortening. 
Cool until lukewarm and add the yeast cake, which 
has been softened in the lukewarm water. Add 
% C. white flour and beat well. Let stand until 
full of bubbles. Add the remaining white flour, 
the whole wheat flour, raisins, and pecans. Knead 
well and let rise until trebled in bulk. Knead 
down, shape into a loaf, and let rise till double in 
bulk. Bake. 



47 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Butterscotch 
Coffee Cake 



Coffee Cake 



Dinner Rolls 



1 yeast cake 
V2 C. water 

2 eggs 
Flour 



1 C. milk 
Y3 C. sugar 
% C. butter 
% t. salt 

Top Mixture 
2 T. butter % t. salt 

2V 2 T. sugar 3 T. chopped pecans 

y 2 t. cinnamon 

Scald milk and add sugar, butter, and salt. 
When lukewarm, add yeast cake dissolved m luke- 
warm water, well beaten eggs, and enough flour 
to make a stiff batter. Let rise until more than 
doubled in bulk. Beat thoroughly, spread m but- 
tered pan and cover with top mixture made by 
combining butter, sugar, salt, pecans and cinna- 
mon. Let rise 20 min. and bake. 

Nina Rowan. 



1 C. milk 

1 cake yeast 

1 T. sugar 

2 C. flour 
% C. butter 



V 2 C. brown sugar 
1 egg 

1 C. chopped pecans 
% t. salt 
3 T. cinnamon 



Scald milk, cool until lukewarm. Dissolve yeast 
and 1 T. sugar in the milk. Add 1 C. sifted flour, 
beat well, and let rise 45 minutes. Cream butter 
and brown sugar, add well beaten egg and beat 
thoroughly. Combine with sponge mixture. To 
this add 1 C. flour, pecans, and salt, stirring until 
well mixed. Let rise until double m bulk. Roll 
1 inch thick. Place in greased pan, brush with 
butter, sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon and pecans, 

let rise until light, and bake. 

Guarner Gray Jones. 



1 C. milk 

1 yeast cake 

2 T. water 
1 T. sugar 

3 C. flour 



y 3 C. sugar 
2 T. butter 
1 egg white 
% C. chopped pecans 
y 2 t. salt 



Scald milk. When lukewarm, add yeast cake 
dissolved in 2 T. warm water, 1 T. sugar, and 1% 



48 



Pecan Yeast Breads 



C. flour. Beat thoroughly. Let rise until light. 
Add butter and sugar creamed together, stiffly 
beaten egg white, pecans, remainder of flour, and 
salt. Knead. Let rise until double in bulk. Knead, 
shape into rolls, and let rise 1 hr. Bake in hot 
oven. 

This recipe may be used for dinner rolls, Vienna 
rolls, Parkerhouse rolls, finger rolls, bread sticks, 
etc. Winnie Woods. 

1 C. milk % C. butter Finger Rolls 

V2 yeast cake V2 t. salt 

3 C. flour 2 eggs 

% C. sugar % C. pecans chopped 

Scald milk. When lukewarm, add yeast cake 
dissolved in 2 T. lukewarm milk. Add 1 C. flour, 
beat and let rise. When light add sugar, butter, 
salt, eggs, pecans and remainder of flour. Knead 
and let rise. When double in bulk knead and 
shape into finger rolls. Place in buttered finger- 
roll pans, when double in size bake 30 minutes in 
a hot oven. Eula Phillips. 

V2 yeast cake Vanilla or cardamon Cinnamon 

3 T. warm water Nutmeg Rolls 

1 C. milk 3 C. flour 

% C. Crisco Butter 

% C. sugar Pecans 

1 t. salt Cinnamon 

1 egg Sugar 

Dissolve yeast in warm water. Add Crisco, 
sugar, and salt, to scalded milk. Beat egg well. 
Add nutmeg and vanilla. When milk is luke- 
warm, add dissolved yeast cake, egg mixture, and 
flour. Let rise. Knead, roll out, spread with 
melted butter, sprinkle generously with chopped 
pecans, cinnamon, and sugar. Roll as for a jelly 
roll. Cut in slices 1% inch thick. Stand on end 
in pan. Let rise. Brush over with egg yolk 
beaten with water, and bake. 

Mrs. A. H. Johnson. 



49 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Raisin Coffee 1 egg Y2 t. vanilla 

Cake Vq C. butter 2 C. flour 

% C. sugar x k C. raisins 

% C. milk % C. chopped pecans 

% yeast cake 1 t. cinnamon 

Top Mixture 
% C. sugar 1 t. flour 

% C. butter % C. chopped pecans 

Cream together the egg, butter, and sugar. Add 
the milk which has been scalded and cooled to 
lukewarm, keeping aside a small amount to dis- 
solve the yeast. Mix yeast with a tablespoon of 
flour and one of sugar until it forms a paste, then 
add to other ingredients. Add vanilla and cinna- 
mon and part of flour, then the raisins and pecans 
with the remaining flour. Let rise overnight or 
a few hours in a warm place. Knead. Put in 
pans and let rise again. Spread the top with 
melted butter, then sprinkle the crumb mixture, 
made from the sugar, flour, and pecans, evenly 
over the top, and bake. 

Mrs. Harvey P. Frank. 

Butterscotch yeast cake V2 t. salt 

Buns % C. milk 2% C. flour 

2 T. sugar Y2 C. pecans 

2 T. shortening Cinnamon 
% egg Butter 

Butterscotch Syrup 
1 C. brown sugar 1 t. lemon juice 

3 T. water Vanilla 
1 T. butter Pecan halves 

1 t. honey 

Scald milk and cool till lukewarm. Dissolve 
yeast cake and % t. sugar in 14 C. of the milk. 
Add rest of the milk and 1 C. flour. Beat well, 
and let rise till bubbles begin to break. Cream 
sugar and shortening, add egg, and mix with 
sponge. Add rest of the flour and salt, kneading 
the last cupful in on the board. Let rise until 
doubled in bulk. Roll out to *4 inch in thickness, 
spread with butter, sprinkle with cinnamon, and 

50 



Pecan Yeast Breads 



roll. Cut into iy 2 inch pieces. Place on end in 
pan prepared with butterscotch syrup made by 
boiling the ingredients for 10 min. and adding 
vanilla and pecans. Let rise until very light and 
bake in a moderate oven 20 to 30 minutes. Turn 
out upside down as soon as removed from oven. 

Irene E. Robb. 

1 potato iy 2 T. Crisco Bran Rolls 

1 C. water % C. sugar 
% yeast cake 1 C. bran 

C. water 1 t. salt 

2 C. flour % C. chopped pecans 

Ys C. raisins 

Boil potato in 1 C. water. When done, mash in 
the water. When lukewarm, add yeast cake dis- 
solved in y% C. lukewarm water. Add flour to 
make a soft batter. Let rise two hours. Add 
remainder of flour, melted Crisco, sugar, bran, 
salt, pecans, raisins, and knead. Let rise two 
hours. Knead, divide into rolls, put in pans, and 
let rise another hour. Bake. 

Mrs. S. A. Heward. 

*h C. milk 2 T. water Frosted 

% C. Crisco iy 2 eggs Pinwheel Rolls 

% T. sugar 2 C. flour 

% t. salt % C. sugar 

Y2 cake yeast Pecans 

Cinnamon 

Scald milk and add Crisco, sugar, and salt. 
When lukewarm, add yeast cake dissolved in 2 T. 
water, egg yolks, and flour. Let rise over-night. 
Knead, roll out to % inch in thickness. Spread 
with egg whites and sugar. Sprinkle with chop- 
ped pecans and cinnamon. Roll up like a jelly roll. 
Cut in slices. Let rise 2 hours. Bake % hour and 
frost with powdered sugar icing and sprinkle with 
finely chopped pecans. 

Mrs. W. G. Benninger. 
51 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Hot 

Cross Buns 



y 2 cake yeast 1 egg # 

% C. water % t. cinnamon and ginger 

1 C. milk % C. chopped pecans 

14 C. sugar V2 C. currants 

3 T. shortening 1 t. salt 

Flour 

Dissolve yeast in lukewarm water, add to milk 
which has been scalded and cooled. Add sugar 
and shortening creamed together, the egg beaten 
light, spices, pecans, and currants, flour to make 
stiff dough, and salt. Let rise 2y 2 to 3 hours, and 
bake. If a cross is desired on top of buns, cut 
with knife after shaping into buns and let rise a 
few minutes before baking. 

Mrs. Claude Van Aken. 



Parkerhouse 
Rolls 



1 potato 

lYs C. potato water 
iy 3 C. milk 

2 T. sugar 
1 t. salt 



2 T. Crisco 
Ys yeast cake 
2 T. water 
1 C. chopped pecans 
Flour 

Scald milk. Add potato mashed in potato water, 
sugar, salt, and melted Crisco. When lukewarm, 
add yeast cake dissolved in 2 T. warm water and 
enough flour to make a sponge. Let stand 2 hours. 
Then add enough flour to make into loaf. Let 
stand overnight. In morning knead, work in 
pecans, and shape into Parkerhouse rolls. Let 
rise, butter tops, and bake. 

Edith A. Meyer. 



Potato 
Spiced Rolls 



C. 
C. 



milk 
sugar 



% 

y 2 C. mashed potatoes 
y 2 yeast cake 
2 T. water 
1 egg 



Butter 



C. butter 
t. salt 
Flour 
Sugar 
Cinnamon 
Chopped pecans 



Scald milk and add sugar and potatoes. When 
lukewarm, add yeast cake dissolved in 2 T. warm 
water and let rise overnight. In the morning add 



52 



Pecan Yeast Breads 



egg, butter, salt, and enough flour to form into a 
loaf. Let rise and roll out to V2 inch in thickness. 
Spread with butter, sprinkle with sugar, cinna- 
mon, and pecans. Eoll up as for jelly roll, cut in 
1 inch slices, place on end in pan, and let rise. 
Spread with butter, sprinkle with sugar, and bake. 

Mrs. R. J. Roesch. 



1 c. milk 1 t. salt Raised Buns 

1 cake yeast 1 C. chopped pecans 

2 T. water 2 eggs 

2 T. powdered sugar V2 C. butter 

Flour 

Scald milk. When lukewarm, add yeast cake 
dissolved in 2 T. warm water, sugar, and enough 
flour to make a medium stiff batter. Let rise 
overnight. In morning, knead, add salt, nuts, 
eggs, melted butter, and flour until dough is stiff. 
Let stand 2 hours. Knead, make into small balls, 
place in pans, let rise 2 hours. Brush over with 
mixture of milk, egg white, and sugar, and bake. 

Thomas J. Scanlon. 



1 C. milk 2 C. flour Spice Buns 

% C. sugar % C. butter 
1/2 t. salt 1 T. cinnamon 

1 yeast cake % C. pecans grated 
i/4 C. lukewarm water 1 t. lemon 

Scald milk. Add half of sugar, and salt. When 
lukewarm, add yeast cake dissolved in lukewarm 
water, and 2 C. flour. Let rise until light. Knead. 
Add butter, remaining sugar, cinnamon, pecans, 
lemon, and flour to make a dough. Let rise, shape 
like biscuits, let rise again and bake. May be 
brushed with beaten egg before baking if pre- 
ferred glazed. 

Mrs. M. Coachenoerry. 
53 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Schnecken 
Rolls 



1 C. milk 

1 C. boiling water 

2 T. shortening 
2 T. sugar 

1 t. salt 

Vst cake yeast 



2 T. water 
2 C. flour 

2 C. whole wheat flour 



Butter 
Sugar 
Cinnamon 



1 C. pecans 



Scald the milk with the boiling water. Add 
shortening, sugar, and salt. When lukewarm, add 
yeast dissolved in 2 T. warm water, and white 
flour. Beat well and let rise overnight. Add 
whole wheat flour, kneading well. Let rise again. 
Roll thinly, spread with butter, sugar, cinnamon, 
and chopped pecans. Roll up and cut in 1% to 
2 inch pieces. Place on end in pan and put a 
small lump of butter on the top of each roll. Let 
rise and bake in hot oven from 20 to 25 minutes. 



Mrs. W. J. Eddy. 



54 



CHAPTER V 



PECAN QUICK BREADS 

WHITE 

WHOLE WHEAT 

GRAHAM 

BRAN 

RYE 

FRUIT 

BISCUITS 

MUFFINS 

ROLLS 

TEA CAKES 

COFFEE CAKES 

SHORT CAKES 

GRIDDLE CAKES 



"If it were done * * * * 
'twere well it 
were done quickly." 

Shakespeare. 



CHAPTER V 



Quick Breads 

The present-day tendency to shorten the time 
involved in all housework has led in some cases 
to the abandonment of yeast breads; and it is 
fortunate that this tendency has led to the evolu- 
tion of the so-called quick breads, to which baking 
powders and similar leavening agents are used, or 
physical leavening. 

Contrary to the general belief, the right baking Quick 
powder bread is just as healthful as the yeast Healthful 
breads, and the recipes which follow have all been 
thoroughly tested and are recommended for their 
nutritional value as well as their exceptional 
appeal to the appetite. 

In connection with all these recipes you will 
note a material reduction in the amount of butter 
used due to the fact that the fat content of the 
pecan cuts down the need for butter. 

This term is applied to all those bread or bread- 
like mixtures which are made light by physical or 
chemical leavening agents. They are made up 
quickly and are baked at once. 

Physical leavening is the incorporation of air 
by beating. Chemical leavening is produced by 
the reaction of an alkali and an acid in presence 
of heat and moisture to form carbon dioxide gas. 
The alkali used is sodium bicarbonate, commonly 

57 



Physical 
Leavening 
— or Baking 
Powder 



known as baking soda, and the acid may be a 
tartrate or phosphate, the two being held in a 
starch medium and called baking powder. The 
sodium bicarbonate may be combined with the 
acids of sour milk, molasses or fruits, and should 
be handled quickly, as the reaction is immediate. 

Baking powder breads of an average size, one 
to one and a half pounds, should be baked in a 
moderate oven 50 to 60 minutes. Other quick 
breads require a higher temperature and a shorter 
length of time. 



58 



Pecan Quick Breads 



2 T. sugar V 2 t. salt Bran and 

% beaten egg 1% C. graham flour Graham Bread 

V2 C. white flour % C. bran 

V 2 t. baking powder 1 T. melted butter 

Y2 t. soda 1 C. sour milk 

V2 C. chopped or grated pecans 

Beat egg and sugar together. Mix and sift 
white flour, baking powder, and salt. Add graham 
flour and bran. Add this to the first mixture 
alternately with the sour milk in which soda has 
been dissolved. Add melted butter and pecans. 
Let rise 20 min. and bake. 

Mrs. E. A. Drews. 



Y2 C. white flour % C. molasses Boston 

Y2 t. salt lVs C. sour milk Brown Bread 

IY2 C. graham flour % T. Crisco 

% C. dark brown sugar V 2 egg 
V2 t. soda % C. chopped pecans 

*A C. raisins 

Mix and sift white flour and salt. Add graham . 
flour and sugar, soda dissolved in sour milk and 
molasses, melted Crisco, well beaten egg, chopped 
pecans and raisins. Fill 1-lb. baking powder cans 
half full, put lids on, and bake one hour in slow 
oven. 

Mrs. L. E. Johnston. 



1 C. white flour V 2 C. molasses Boston 

Y2 t. salt 1 T. butter Steamed Bread 

2 C. graham flour 1 egg 

1 t. soda Y2 C. raisins 

1 C. buttermilk 1 C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift white flour and salt. Add graham 
flour, soda dissolved in buttermilk and molasses, 
melted butter, well beaten egg, floured raisins, and 
pecans. Steam 3 hours. 

Mrs. Lamar Penny. 

59 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Bran % C. sugar % C. bran 

Buttermilk y 2 egg V2 t. soda 
Bread % C. white flour 2 T. molasses 

y 2 t. salt % C. buttermilk 

% C. graham flour % C. grated pecans 

Beat egg and sugar together. Mix and sift 
white flour and salt. Add graham flour and bran. 
Dissolve soda in molasses and buttermilk and add 
alternately with the dry ingredients to the first 
mixture. Add pecans and bake. C. raisins 
may be added if desired.) 

Mrs. Geo. Stockfieth. 



Bran Bread 



% C. bran 

% C. white flour 

V2 C. graham flour 

% C. sweet milk 



IV2 t. baking powder 



V2 egg 



3 T. sugar 
% C. grated pecans 
V 2 t. salt 



Mix and sift dry ingredients, add bran, graham 
flour, milk, egg and pecans. Mix well. Let rise 
20 min. Bake in slow oven. 

Mrs. D. C. Yontiss. 



Brown 1 C. white flour 1 t. soda 

Raisin Bread 1 t. baking powder V2 C. molasses 

1 t. salt IV2 C. buttermilk 

2 C. graham flour V2 C. pecans 

% C. raisins 

Mix and sift white flour, baking powder, and 
salt. Add graham flour, soda dissolved in molasses 
and buttermilk, pecans, and raisins. Bake with 
pan of water placed under bread. 

Mrs. H. R. Haile. 



60 



Pecan Quick Breads 



Vo C suffar 2 t. baking powder |t ra ?,. r» a 

& egg 1% C. bran Health Bread 

% C. milk % t. salt 

1 C. flour % C. grated pecans 

Beat egg and sugar together. Mix and sift 
flour, baking powder, and salt. Add bran and 
combine alternately with the milk to the first mix- 
ture. Add pecans and bake. 

Mary Lally. 



% C. white flour Vs t. soda Bran Molasses 

1 t. baking powder 1% T. molasses Bread 

y t> sa it % C. sour milk 

1V 2 C. bran % C. finely chopped pecans 

Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt. 
Add bran. Dissolve soda in molasses and sour 
milk and add to dry ingredients. Add chopped or 
grated pecans and bake. 

Libbie E. Booth. 



m C. white flour 1 C. milk Brown 

2 t. baking powder 1 egg 1A _ , . . Urange " reaa 

y 2 t. salt % T. melted butter 

% C. sugar % t. orange extract 

1 C. graham flour Ys C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift the first four ingredients. Add 
graham flour, milk, well beaten egg, melted butter, 
orange extract and pecans. Bake. 

Mrs. W. P. Eldredge. 



% C. white flour % C. molasses SSST 

% t. salt 1% £. buttermilk Bread 

1 C. cornmeal 1 T. Crisco 

y 2 t. soda % C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift flour and salt, and add cornmeal. 
Dissolve soda in molasses and buttermilk and add 
to dry ingredients. Add melted Crisco, and 
chopped or grated pecans, and bake. 

Mrs. Maud Thompson. 

61 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Bishop's 
Bread 



% C. sugar 
2 eggs 

V2 C. chopped pecans 



V2 C. raisins 
1 t. vanilla 
IV2 C. flour 



Beat eggs until light, add sugar, vanilla, pecans, 
finely cut raisins, and flour. Beat well. Spread 
out in buttered square biscuit pan and bake till 
light brown. Cut in 2-inch squares and bake 
until crisp brown. 

Mrs. Ida Lindig. 



Orange 
Bread 



V2 C. graham flour 



1 C. milk 



V2 egg 



2y 2 C. pastry flour 
3 t. baking powder 
V2 t. salt 

V2 C. sugar % C~ candied orange peel 

% C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift the first four ingredients. Add 
graham flour, milk, beaten egg, candied orange 
peel, and chopped or grated pecans. Bake. 

Mrs. Leslie B. Rundle. 



Bran and % C. flour y 2 C. chopped pecans 

Raisin Bread 1 t. baking powder y 2 C. raisins 

V2 t. salt % t. soda 

IV2 C. bran IV2 T. molasses 

1% C. sour milk 

Mix and sift flour, baking powder, and salt. 
Add bran, pecans, and chopped raisins. Dissolve 
soda in molasses and sour milk, and add to dry 
ingredients. Bake. 

Mrs. Marie Miller. 



Graham 
Bread 



V2 C. white flour % C. chopped pecans 

1 C. graham flour Y 2 t. salt 
% C. sour milk and cream V 2 t. soda 

2 T. sugar y 2 t. baking powder 

Mix and sift flour, sugar, salt, soda, and baking 
powder. Add graham flour, milk, and nuts well 
floured. Bake. 



Lenore Nelson. 



62 



Pecan Quick Breads 



1 C. white flour % t. soda Buckwheat 

% t. salt % C. milk Bread 

lVz t. baking powder Y3 C. molasses 

1 C. buckwheat flour % C. pecans, chopped or 

grated 

Mix and sift white flour, salt, and baking pow- 
der. Add buckwheat flour. Dissolve soda in milk 
and molasses, and add to dry ingredients. Add 
pecans and bake. Nellie C. Nordstrom. 



! egg % t. salt Cherry Bread 

% C. sugar % C. milk 

2 C. flour % C. grated pecans 

2 t. baking powder Candied cherries (approx. 

■/i C.) 

Beat together egg and sugar. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients and add to egg mixture alternately 
with the milk. Add pecans and candied cherries, 
cut in pieces. Let rise 20 min. and bake. 

Mrs. R. E. Coleman. 



1 t soda 1 t. salt Dark 

1 C. chopped dates 2 T. melted butter Date Bread 

1 C. water 1 egg 

1 C. broken pecans V2 C. sugar 

2 C. flour 

Sprinkle soda over chopped dates. Pour boiling 
water over the dates and soda and let cool. Add 
the remaining ingredients and bake. 

Mrs. C. W. Fisher. 



1 C. light brown sugar 2 t. baking powder Date Loaf 

2 eggs V2 t. salt 

1 C milk V2 C. chopped pecans 

2 C. flour % C. chopped dates 

Beat sugar and eggs together. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients and add alternately with the milk. 
Add floured, chopped nuts and dates. Let stand 
20 min. and bake. Mrs. F. E. Danckert. 



63 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Cream of 2 T. melted butter y 2 C. uncooked Cream of 

Wheat Bread iy 2 T. sugar Wheat 

1 egg y 2 t. soda 

% C. flour 1 C. sour milk 

1 t. salt y 2 C. chopped pecans 

Cream together butter and sugar and add well 
beaten egg. Sift flour and salt. Add Cream of 
Wheat. Dissolve soda in sour milk and add 
alternately with the dry ingredients to the first 
mixture. Flour pecans and add last. Bake. 

Mrs. L. H. Keith. 



Graham and 2 T. shortening 1 C. sour milk 

Date Bread % C. brown sugar 1 pkg. dates 

1 egg % C. chopped pecans 

1 t. soda 3 C. graham flour 

1 t. salt 

Cream shortening and sugar, add beaten egg, 
and sour milk, in which baking soda has been dis- 
solved. Add chopped dates, pecans, graham flour, 
and salt. Bake. 

Mrs. A. Ramsperger. 



Orange Peel 2 large oranges 1 egg 

Bread 1 C. sugar y 2 t. salt 

% C. boiling water 3 C. flour 

1 C. sweet milk 4 t. baking powder 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Cut the orange peel into narrow strips. Put in 
cold, salted water and boil until tender. Drain, 
and add sugar, and boiling water. Boil slowly 
until peeling is thoroughly sugared. Cool, and add 
milk, egg, and sifted salt, flour, and baking pow- 
der, and chopped pecans. Bake. 

Mrs. M. A. Kingdon. 

64 



Pecan Quick Breads 



Yz C. brown sugar 1 C. white flour Brown Bread 

Yz C. chopped pecans 2 t. baking powder 

Yz C. chopped dates Y 2 t. salt 

1 C. graham flour Yz egg 

1 C. milk 

Mix sugar, pecans, dates, graham flour, and 
flour sifted with baking powder and salt. Add 
egg mixed with the milk. Let rise in warm place 
for 15 minutes and bake. Mrs ^ B Lyo ^ 

Yz C. white flour % C. cornmeal Coarse Loaf 

1 t. baking powder Yz t. soda 

Yz t. salt 1 C. sour milk 

1% C. graham flour Yz C. molasses 

% C. rye flour Yz C. raisins 

Yz C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift white flour, baking powder, and 
salt. Add graham flour, rye flour, cornmeal, soda 
dissolved in sour milk and molasses, raisins, and 
pecans. Bake. Martha Kron. 

2 C. bread flour % C. chopped orange peel Cornmeal and 
6 t. baking powder 1 C. chopped dates Date Bread 

Yz t. salt % Ce chopped pecans 

1 C. cornmeal 1 egg 

1 t. mixed spices 1% C. milk 

2 T. shortening 

Mix and sift dry ingredients and add cornmeal, 
chopped fruits, and pecans. Add egg and melted 
shortening to milk, and add dry ingredients. 

Bake - Mrs. E. M. Drake. 

1 C. flour y 2 C. sugar Brown 

% t. soda 1 C. sour cream Fruit Bread 

2 t. baking powder 1 C. chopped dates 

Yz t. salt C. chopped candied cher- 

1 C. graham flour ries 

Ya C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift the flour, soda, baking powder, and 
salt. Add sugar, graham flour, sour cream, and 
beat well. Add floured fruit and pecans. Bake. 

Lucille Nelson. 

65 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Graham Maple 1 C. graham flour 
Syrup Bread 1 C. white flour 

2 t. baking powder 
V2 t. soda 



Graham 

Molasses 

Bread 



Graham and 
Rye Bread 



V2 t. salt 



2 T. sugar 
2 T. maple syrup 
1 C. sour milk or butter- 
milk 

V2 C. grated pecans 



Mix and sift together white flour, baking pow- 
der, soda, salt, and sugar. Mix with graham flour. 
Add syrup, milk, and nuts. Mix thoroughly and 

bake - Mrs. Fay E. Clarke. 



1 C. graham flour 
1 C. white flour 
1 t. baking powder 



V2 t. salt 



^4 C. molasses 
1 C. sour milk 
1 t. baking soda 
Ys C. chopped pecans 
% C. seedless raisins 



Mix and sift together white flour, baking pow- 
der, and salt. Add graham flour, molasses, and 
soda which has been dissolved in sour milk. Then 
add pecans and raisins. Bake. 

Mrs. W. E. Owens. 



1 egg 

% C. sugar 
IV2 C. white flour 
1 C. graham flour 
V2 C. rye flour 



1 t. salt 

1 t. soda 

IV2 C. sour milk 

2 T. chopped raisins 
4 T. chopped pecans 



Beat together egg and sugar. Add dry ingredi- 
ents alternately with sour milk in which soda has 
been dissolved. Add raisins and pecans and bake. 

Mrs. G. Leander. 



Johnny Cake IV2 eggs 

% C. milk 
1 C. cornmeal 
% C. flour 



V2 T. sugar 
V2 t. salt 

1 t. baking powder 
C. chopped pecans 



Beat eggs until light. Add milk, cornmeal, 
sugar. Add flour, baking powder, and salt, which 
have been sifted together, and chopped or grated 
pecans. Bake. Mrs# G Wt Phi M ps . 

66 



Pecan Quick Breads 



1 C. sugar IV2 t. baking powder Philadelphia 

% C. butter % t. salt Dutch Bread 

1 egg % C. chopped pecans 

1 C. milk % C. raisins 

2 C. flour ' % C. currants 

Cream together sugar and butter, and add well 
beaten egg. Mix and sift dry ingredients and add 
alternately with the milk to the first mixture. 
Add pecans, raisins, currants, and bake. 

Mrs. Chas. F. Lauglilin. 



% C. cornmeal % t. soda New England 

% C. white flour V2 C. molasses Steamed 

% t. salt l 1 ! C. buttermilk Brown Bread 

1 C. graham flour V2 C. raisins 

% C. pecans 

Mix and sift the cornmeal, white flour, and salt. 
Add graham flour, soda dissolved in molasses and 
buttermilk, raisins, and chopped pecans. Steam 
2 hours. 

Brooke S. Barney. 



2 C. flour x k C. seeded raisins Raisin and 

2V 2 t. baking powder % C. milk Cinnamon 

1 T. melted butter 1 egg Bread 

y 2 t. salt x /4 C. sugar 

^4 C. chopped pecans t. cinnamon 

Mix and sift flour and baking powder. Add 
melted butter, salt, pecans, and floured raisins. 
Mix thoroughly, and add milk, well beaten egg, 
sugar, and cinnamon. Let stand 20 minutes and 
bake. 

Sibyl Pearl Smith. 

67 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Orange 3 C. graham flour IV2 C. milk 

Graham Bread 6 t. baking powder 1 egg 

1 t. salt 2 T. orange juice 

% C. brown sugar 1 t. grated orange rind 

1 C. pecans 

Mix dry ingredients. Add milk, slightly beaten 
egg, orange juice, rind, and chopped pecans. Let 
stand 20 minutes, place pecan halves on top, and 
bake. 

Mrs. Letitia M. Lee. 



Raisin 3 C. flour % C. broken pecans 

Bread I % C. brown sugar 1 egg 

3 t. baking powder 1 C. milk 

1 t. salt y 2 C. raisins 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add pecans, well 
beaten egg, milk, and chopped 1 raisins. Bake. 

Carolyn H. Gault. 



Raisin 
Bread II 



2 T. sugar 
1% C. milk 

C. chopped pecans 



3 C. flour 
3 t. baking powder 
1 t. salt 

% C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add milk, pecans, 
and raisins. Mix thoroughly and let stand 10 
minutes. Bake. Brush with melted butter when 
done. 

Mrs. Jewel Yarbro. 



V2 C. chopped pecans 
Vz C. Sultana raisins 
Y2 egg 
1 C. milk 



Sultana 2 C. flour 

Raisin Bread % C. sugar 

Vz t. salt 

2 t. baking powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add nuts and 
raisins, well beaten egg, and milk. Let rise 20 
minutes and bake. 

Mrs. Wm. E. Franke, 

68 



Pecan Quick Breads 



Y3 C. sugar 4 t. baking powder Prune Bread 

3 T. shortening 1 t. salt 

1 C. milk C. graham flour 

1% C. white flour % C. cooked prunes 

Ys C. chopped pecans 

Cream sugar and melted shortening. Mix and 
sift white flour, baking powder and salt, add 
graham flour, and add alternately with the milk 
to the first mixture. Add cooked, chopped prunes, 
and pecans. Louise D. Fischer. 



2 C. pastry flour V± t. soda Rye Bread 
1 C. rye meal ^ C. molasses 

1 t. salt 1 C. milk 

3 t. baking powder 1 egg 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift the first four ingredients. Add 
soda dissolved in molasses, milk, well beaten egg, 
and pecans. Let stand 15 minutes and bake. 

Anita Knabe. 



1 C. cornmeal 1 t. soda Steamed 

1 C. white flour 1 C. buttermilk Cornmeal 

% t. salt % C. molasses Bread 

% C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift cornmeal, flour, and salt. Add 
soda dissolved in buttermilk and molasses, and 
pecans. Steam 3 hours. 

Mrs. /. R. Towns. 



2 C. graham flour 1 C. buttermilk Steamed 

1 t. baking powder Y2 C. molasses Raism Bread 

% t. salt 1 egg 

1 t. soda 1 C. raisins 

% C. chopped pecans 

Mix flour, baking powder, and salt. Add soda 
dissolved in buttermilk and molasses, well beaten 
egg, raisins, and chopped pecans. Steam 2 hours. 

Mrs. Jas. Epes. 

69 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Steamed Vz C. Crisco and butter 1 C. white flour 

Graham Bread 1 C. sugar 2 t. baking powder 

1 egg y 2 t. salt 

1 C. milk 1 C. graham flour 

IV2 C. grated pecans 

Melt shortening and cream with sugar, add well 
beaten egg. Mix and sift white flour, baking 
powder, and salt, add graham flour, and add 
alternately with the milk to the first mixture. 
Add pecans and steam 2 hours. 

Mrs. Geo. Stockfleth. 



White Bread 12 C. flour 1 t. salt 

4 t. baking powder 1% C. sweet milk 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add milk grad- 
ually, then pecans, and bake. 

Mrs. G. A. Bryhn. 



White Bread II 2 C. flour 4 T. shortening 

V2 C. sugar 1 egg 

4 t. baking powder 1 C. milk 

1 t. salt y s C. grated pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Cut in shorten- 
ing, add well beaten egg, milk, and pecans. Let 
stand in a warm place % hour and bake. 

Mrs. J. F. Laidlan. 



White 3 C. flour 2 eggs 

Bread III 4 t. baking powder iy 2 C. milk 

1 t. salt 2 t. butter 

1 T. sugar y 2 C. grated pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add well beaten 
eggs, milk, melted butter, and pecans. Bake. 

Mrs. C. P. Keown. 

70 



Pecan Quick Breads 



2 C. flour % C. sugar White 

3 t. baking powder 1 egg Bread IV 
V 2 t. salt 1% C. milk 

% C. pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Beat egg, add 
to milk, and stir into flour mixture. Add nuts and 
let stand 20 min. Bake. 

Mary Z. Storie. 



2 C. flour 1 T. sugar Bread V 

3 t. baking powder V2 T. butter 
y 2 t. salt 1% C. milk 

% C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Cut in butter, 
add milk, and mix to a smooth dough. Add pecans 
and let rise in a warm place 15 minutes. Brush 
top with melted butter and bake. 

John Laun. 



2 C. flour 1 T. shortening Cheese 

4 t. baking powder 1 C. grated cheese Biscuits 

1 t. salt 1 C. grated pecans 

% C. milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Cut in the 
shortening and cheese. Add pecans and milk. 
Roll V2 inc h thick and cut out. Bake. 

Melva Bates. 



1 C. flour 1 C. graham flour Graham 
4 t. baking powder 2 T. butter Biscuits 

1/2 t. salt % C. milk 

2 T. brown sugar % C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift first four ingredients and add 
graham flour. Cut in butter, add milk, and 
chopped pecans. Roll, cut out, and bake. 

Mary Kerr. 

71 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Biscuits 2 C. flour 2 T. shortening 

4 t. baking powder % C. milk or half milk and 

1 T. sugar half water 

Vi t. salt % C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Cut in shorten- 
ing, and add liquid and grated or chopped pecans. 
Roll out y 2 inch thick, cut out, and bake. Half 
pecans may be placed on each before baking. 

Mrs. Robert E. Woodward. 



Orange 
Short Cake 



Marmalade 
Tea Cakes 



2 C. flour 
1 t. salt 

4 t. baking powder 



4 T. sugar 
4 T. shortening 
% to % C. milk 



6 oranges 
Juice of 2 oranges 



Filling 

% C. sugar 

Sauce 

C. chopped pecans 
% C. sugar 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Cut in shorten- 
ing, and add milk. Pat into shape, and bake. Cut 
oranges in cubes, sprinkle with sugar and spread 
between baked crusts. Serve with a sauce made 
from the oranges, sugar, and pecans. 

Mrs. Jennie Quick. 



2 C. flour 
4 t. baking powder 
Y2 t. salt 
1 T. sugar 



Powdered sugar 



4 T. butter 
% C. milk 
% C. grated pecans 
Orange marmalade 



Mix and sift dry ingredients. Cut in butter, 
add milk and pecans. Roll i/ 2 inch thick and cut 
out. Hollow out a depression in top of each biscuit 
and fill with marmalade. Brush with milk and 
bake. Sift powdered sugar over them after 
removing from the oven. 

Mrs. V. Wrana. 

72 



Pecan Quick Breads 



% C. table syrup 3 t. baking powder White 

2 T. melted shortening V 2 t. salt Syrup Bread 

2 eggs y 2 C. milk 

2 C. flour % C. chopped pecans 

Add melted shortening and well beaten eggs to 
syrup. Mix and sift dry ingredients and add 
alternately with the milk. Add pecans and bake. 

Mrs. Frances Gill. 



1 C. whole wheat flour V 2 t. soda Whole Wheat 

Vz C. white flour Y 2 t. baking powder and Raisin 

% C. syrup y 2 t. salt Bread 

% C. sour milk % C. raisins 

Yz C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients excepting graham 
flour. Add graham flour, sour milk, syrup, 
raisins, and nuts. Bake in slow oven. 

Mrs. Carl Dahlstrom. 



2 C. flour 1 t. salt Orange Honey 

4 t. baking powder 3 T. shortening Biscuits 

1 C. milk 

Orange Honey 

Juice of 3 oranges 1 T. butter 

Grated rind of 1 orange 1 egg yolk 
1 C. sugar % C. grated pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Cut in shorten- 
ing and add milk. Eoll out to % inch thickness, 
spread with orange filling, made by mixing 
together the orange juice, rind, sugar, butter, 
beaten egg yolk, and pecans, and cooking in double 
boiler until thick as honey. Roll up like a jelly 
roll, cut off in % inch slices, sprinkle with sugar, 
and bake. 

Mrs. Percy McGhee, Sr. 
V. M. French. 



IB 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



White 
Date Bread 



V2 C. sugar 
2 T. Crisco 
1 egg 
1 C. milk 



3 C. flour 
5 t. baking powder 
V2 t. salt 

1 C chopped pecans 
V2 C. dates 



Cream sugar and Crisco, and add egg. Mix and 
sift flour, baking powder and salt, and add 
alternately with the milk. Add floured nuts and 
dates. Let rise 20 minutes and bake. 

Mrs. H. Hallam. 



Tea Biscuits 2 C. flour 2 T. shortening 

3 t. baking powder 1 egg 

% t. salt 1/2 C. milk 

3 T. sugar V 2 C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Cut in 
shortening, add egg, milk, and chopped or grated 
pecans. Roll, cut out, brush with milk, and bake. 



Ring Rolls 2 C. flour 1 T. sugar 

5 t. baking powder 2 T. shortening 

1 t. salt 1 egg yolk 

¥3 C. milk 

Nut Cream Filling 

2 T. butter V 2 t. salt 

4 T. sugar V 2 egg white 

3 T. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Cut in shorten- 
ing, add egg yolk beaten with milk. Knead 5 
minutes. Roll out % inch thick, spread over with 
nut cream filling made by creaming together 
butter and sugar, adding pecans, well beaten egg 
white and salt, and beating well. Cut in long, 
narrow strips, double over, join the ends, and 
twist, making rings. Bake. 

Bert W. Culbertson. 

74 



Pecan Quick Breads 



3 c< flour 4 T. shortening Raisin Biscuits 

y 2 C. sugar % to % C. milk 

5 t. baking powder 1 egg 

1 t. salt % C. currants 

% C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Cut in shorten- 
ing, add egg, milk, currants, and half of pecans. 
Roll to i/ 2 inch thickness and cut in strips. Make 
in rings. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and the 
remainder of the pecans. Let stand for 20 min- 
utes and bake. . 

Genevieve May. 



3 C. flour 3 T. shortening Iffifw 
5 T. sugar 1 egg lea King 

4 t. baking powder V2 C. milk 
1% t. salt 1 C. raisins 

V 2 C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Cut in shorten- 
ing, add egg, milk, and floured raisins. Roll out to 
1/2 inch thickness, divide into two long strips, and 
twist together to form a ring. Sprinkle with 
sugar and pecans. Let stand 20 minutes and 
bake. 



2 C. flour % C. milk Tw^s™* 

4 t. baking powder % C. raisins Awists 
y t- salt 2 T. chopped citron 

1 T sugar % C. chopped pecans 

2 T. butter 1 t. cinnamon 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Cut in butter, 
and add milk. Roll 1/4 inch thick. Brush with 
melted butter, sprinkle with finely chopped raisins, 
nuts, citron, sugar, and cinnamon. Roll like a 
jelly roll. Cut in slices one inch thick, stand on 
end, and bake. 

Mrs. A. J. Legare. 

75 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Shortcake 



2 C. flour l c. milk 

4 t. baking powder 3 C. crushed fruit 
1 t. salt y 2 C. grated pecans 

5 T. shortening Sugar 

x k C. broken pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Cut in shorten- 
ing and add milk gradually. Add grated pecans. 
Divide dough in half and pat out in 2 circular 
pieces of equal size. Place 1 piece in pan, dot 
with butter and place the other on top. Bake. 
Split the cake, butter, and place on it a liberal 
layer of crushed sweetened fruit and broken 
pecans. Put other half on top and cover with 
fruit. Serve with whipped cream. 



Mrs. J. H. Daniel 



Tea Cakes 



2 C. flour 
2 T. sugar 



% t. salt 



4 T. butter 
1 egg 

4 t. baking powder y 2 C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Cut in butter. 
Add well beaten egg mixed with milk, and pecans. 
Drop from tablespoon on baking sheet and bake. 

Anita Knabe. 



Coffee Bread 2 C. flour 

4 t. baking powder 
t. salt 



2 T. sugar 
2 T. shortening 
Y 2 C. milk 



2 T. flour 
4 T. sugar 



Top Mixture 

1 T. cinnamon 
4 T. shortening 
% C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add melted short- 
ening and enough milk to make a very stiff batter. 
Spread i/ 2 inch thick in greased pan. Then 
combine dry ingredients for top mixture, rub in 
shortening, and spread over coffee cake. Sprinkle 
chopped pecans on top and bake i/ 2 hour in 
moderate oven. 

Mrs. Raymond Huber. 
76 



Pecan Quick Breads 



2 C. flour 1 T. butter Scones 

% t. salt 4 T. grated pecans 

4 t. baking powder % C. milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Cut in butter, 
add pecans and milk. Drop into gem pans and 
bake. 

Mrs. W. B. Devlin. 



2 C. flour % C. butter Coffee Twists 

3 t. baking powder 1 egg 

t. salt % C. milk 

3 T. sugar 

Top Mixture 

Vz C. powdered sugar x k t. vanilla 

1 T. hot water % C. grated pecans 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Cut in the 
shortening, then add well beaten egg and milk. 
Roll thin, spread with melted butter and half 
amount of pecans. Fold each end toward the 
center, making 3 folds. Roll again lightly and cut 
into strips 1 inch wide and 6 inches long. Double 
over lengthwise and form into twists, similar to 
twisted doughnuts. Brush over with milk and 
bake. When still warm, spread with a mixture 
made of powdered sugar, remainder of pecans, 
hot water, and vanilla. 

Nell Doneen. 



Yz C. cornmeal Ys C. sugar Cornmeal 

lYs C. boiling water 1% C. milk Griddle Cakes 

2 C. flour 1 egg 

5 t. baking powder 2 T. melted butter 

IY2 t. salt V2 C. grated pecans 

Add the cornmeal to boiling water and boil 5 
minutes. Cool slightly, add remaining dry 
ingredients, mixed and sifted, alternately with the 
milk. Add beaten egg, melted butter, and pecans. 
Cook on hot griddle. 

77 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Iced % C. sugar 2 t. baking powder 

Coffee Cake 2 T. shortening V 2 t. salt 

2 eggs y 2 C. water 

IV2 C. pastry flour Flavoring 

Top Mixture 

2 t. cornstarch y 2 C. sugar 

1 T. cold water 1 T. cinnamon 

Y3 C. boiling water 1 C. chopped pecans 

Cream sugar and shortening and add well 
beaten eggs. Mix and sift dry ingredients and 
add alternately with the water. Add flavoring, 
pour out 1 inch thick into buttered pans. When 
baked, cover with the top mixture made by dissolv- 
ing the cornstarch in cold water, then adding the 
boiling water, sugar, cinnamon and chopped 
pecans. Return to oven and brown. 

Elizabeth Abney. 



Chocolate 
Luncheon 
Cakes 



2 sq. chocolate 

1 C. sour milk 

2 eggs 

1 C. sugar 



3 T. butter 
V2 t. vanilla 
1% C. flour 
1 t. soda 
1 C. grated pecans 



Mix the chocolate, V2 C. Milk, and egg yolks in 
the top of a double boiler. Cook until thick and 
smooth. Take from fire, add sugar, butter, and 
vanilla. Add flour alternately with the remaining 
14 C. milk in which the soda has been dissolved. 
Add pecans and stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake. 

Mrs. W?n. M. Jones. 



Rice 2V2 C. flour 1V 2 C. milk 

Griddle Cakes 3 t. baking powder 1 egg 

y 2 t. salt 2 T. melted butter 

V2 C. cooked rice V2 C. grated pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Cut in rice, add 
well beaten egg, milk, melted butter, and pecans. 
Cook on hot griddle. 

78 



Pecan Quick Breads 



2 C. bread flour V2 t. baking powder Griddle Cakes 

1 t. salt 2 C. sour milk 

1 t. soda 2 t. melted butter 

V2 to % C. broken pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add milk and 
melted butter. Pour on a hot griddle. Scatter 
pecans over each cake at once. Brown and turn 
as usual. 

Irene Strater. 



4 T. butter % t. salt Date Muffins 

4 T. sugar 3 t. baking powder 

1 egg V2 C. chopped pecans 

2 C. flour V2 C. chopped dates 

1 C. milk 

Cream butter and sugar. Add well beaten egg. 
Mix and sift flour, baking powder, and salt, and 
add dates and pecans. Add dry ingredients 
alternately with the milk to the first mixture. 
Bake. 

Winifred Black. 



% C. cornmeal V2 t. salt Corn Cakes 

1% C. flour 1 C. milk 

4 t. baking powder 2 T. shortening 

2 T. sugar 1 egg 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift the first five ingredients. Add 
milk, melted shortening, well beaten egg, and 
pecans. Bake. 

Mrs. Emma Jordon. 



2 C. flour . 1 egg Sour Milk 

2 t. baking powder 4 T. chopped pecans Griddle Cakes 

V 2 t. salt 2 C. milk 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add the egg 
and grated or chopped pecans. Beat vigorously, 
and add the milk. Bake on hot greased griddle. 

Mrs. Thos. Westwood. 
79 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Currant 
Muffins 



3 T. butter 
2 T. sugar 

1 egg 

2 C. flour 



V2 t. salt 



3 t. baking powder 
% C. currants 
% C. chopped pecans 
C. milk 



Mix the melted butter, sugar, well beaten egg, 
add flour sifted with baking powder and salt, 
alternately with milk. Add the currants, pecans, 
and bake. 

Mrs. C. A. Cooper. 



Surprise 
Gems 



2 C. flour 

3 t. baking powder 
1 T. sugar 

Va t. salt 



1 C. milk 

2 eggs 

2 T. shortening 
Jelly or fruit 
Pecans 



Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add milk, well 
beaten eggs, and melted shortening. Put table- 
spoon of batter into each muffin tin. Drop into 
center of each 1 1. of jelly or fruit. Place pecan on 
top of jelly, add another tablespoon of batter and 
bake. 

Anita Knabe. 



Graham % c. flour 1 t soda 

Gems 2 t. baking powder % C. sour milk 

% t. salt 1 egg 

% C. brown sugar 2 T. shortening 

1 C. graham flour % C. raisins 

Y2 C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift first four ingredients. Add graham 
flour, soda dissolved in sour milk, well beaten egg, 
melted shortening, raisins, and chopped pecans. 
Bake. 

Bertha G. MacFadden. 

80 



Pecan Quick Breads 



y 2 C. flour % C. chopped pecans S!^™- 

3 t. baking powder 6 dates Date Gems 

% t. salt 1 egg 

14 C. brown sugar % C. milk 

1 C. graham flour 2 T. butter 

Mix and sift the first four ingredients. Add 
graham flour, pecans, stoned and chopped dates, 
well beaten egg, milk, and melted shortening. 
Beat thoroughly. Bake. 

Miss D. Dargnault. 



y 2 C. whole wheat flour 3 T. sugar THddl^Cakes 

1 C. flour 1 egg griddle Cakcs 

3 t. baking powder 1 C. milk 

y 2 t . salt 1 T. melted butter 

*4 C. grated pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add well beaten 
egg and milk. Beat thoroughly, add melted butter 
and pecans. Cook on a hot griddle. 



x C# flour 1 C. chopped pecans Bran Muffins 

4 t.' baking powder 1 egg 

% t. salt 1 C. milk 

IV2 C. bran 1 T. butter 

Mix and sift flour, baking powder, and salt. 
Add bran, pecans, well beaten egg, milk and 
melted butter. Beat thoroughly. Bake. 

Miss Ella H. Teschendorf. 



m C. flour 1 egg Sf^ f a aSt 

1 t. baking powder 1 C. milk Mutnns 

1 t. salt V2 C. grated pecans 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add well 
beaten egg, milk, and pecans. Beat for five min- 
utes and bake. A 

Mrs. Carl McAllister. 

81 



"■*""" -' " ' — ll-l..— ....I—.I T . 

800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Graham % C. flour 1 C. graham flour 

Puffets 5 t. baking powder 1 egg 

V2 C. sugar 1 C. milk 

1 t. salt 4 T. butter 

1 t. cinnamon Y2 C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift the first five ingredients. Add 
graham flour, well beaten egg, milk, melted butter, 
and pecans. Beat well and bake. 

Mrs. Arlington Gorman. 



Raisin Muffins % C. flour % C. graham flour 

2 t. baking powder % C. milk 

2 t. sugar 1 T. butter 

V2 t. salt V2 C. raisins 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift first four ingredients. Add graham 
flour, milk, melted butter, raisins, and pecans. 
Beat well and bake. 

Mrs. W. L. Clough. 



Tea Muffins 2 C. flour 2 eggs 

4 t. baking powder 1 C. milk 

1 t. salt 4 T. melted butter 

4 T. sugar 1 C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add the well 
beaten eggs, milk, melted butter, and chopped 
pecans. Beat well and bake. 

Mrs. Edith C. Armbrttster. 



Whole Wheat IV2 C. whole wheat flour % C. sour milk 
Muffins V2 t. salt ^4 C. molasses 

V2 t. soda 1 egg 

V2 C. pecans 

Mix flour and salt. Add soda dissolved in sour 
milk and molasses, egg and pecans. Bake. 

Miss Willie M. Bomar. 

82 



Pecan Quick Breads 



1 C. flour 1 t. soda Graham 

1 t. baking powder 2 C. buttermilk Muffins 

1 t. salt 2 eggs 

1 T. sugar 1 T. shortening 

2 C. graham flour % C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift the first four ingredients. Add 
graham flour, soda dissolved in buttermilk, well 
beaten eggs, melted shortening, and chopped 
pecans. Beat well and bake. 

Mrs. Leola Bullivant. 



y 2 C. brown sugar 
V 2 C. butter 

1 egg 

2 C. whole wheat flour 
2 t. baking powder 

% t. salt 
y 2 t. cloves 



y 2 t. allspice 
V 2 t. ginger 
y 2 t. cinnamon 
y 2 t. nutmeg 
3 T. chopped figs and 

raisins 
Ys C. chopped pecans 



Whole Wheat 
Fruit Gems 



% C. milk 

Cream together butter and sugar. Add beaten 
egg. Mix dry ingredients, and add alternately 
with milk to first mixture. Add fruit and pecans. 
Bake in very hot oven for five minutes, then lower 
heat. 



2 C. flour 2 eggs Waffles I 

4 t. baking powder 4 T. butter 

2 T. sugar 1% C. milk 
y s t. salt 1 C. grated pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Separate eggs, 
and add the well beaten yolks, melted butter, and 
milk, to the dry ingredients. Beat well, and add 
the stiffly beaten egg whites and grated pecans. 
Bake on an ungreased electric waffle iron. 

Mrs. Chas. P. Adams. 



83 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Waffles II 2 eggs 3 t. baking powder 

2 t. sugar % t. salt 

2 C. milk % C. grated pecans 

2 C. flour % C. butter 

Beat eggs and sugar together. Mix and sift 
dry ingredients and add alternately with the milk 
to the egg mixture. Add pecans and melted 
butter. Bake on an ungreased electric waffle iron. 
If a greased iron is used, decrease the amount of 
butter in recipe to 1 T. 

Mrs. R. G. Hoke. 



Pinwheel 
Rolls 



2 C. flour 

4 t. baking powder 

3 t. sugar 



V2 t. salt 



2 T. shortening 
% C. milk 

Chopped pecans 
Butter 
Pecan halves 



Mix and sift dry ingredients. Cut in shortening 
and add milk. Roll out % inch thick and spread 
well with melted butter and broken pecans. Roll 
up like jelly roll and place on a baking pan pre- 
pared in the following manner, and bake 15 min- 
utes in a quick oven. Butter a pan heavily and 
sprinkle over it a generous amount of brown 
sugar and pecan halves. Place rolls on end closely 
together on pan. Remove from pan as soon as 
baked and turn bottom side up to cool. 

Mrs. H. Brook. 



Cornmeal 
Waffles 



IV2 C. flour 
%, C. cornmeal 
2 T. sugar 
1 t. salt 



3 t. baking powder 
2 eggs 



% C. milk 



1 T. butter 
% C. grated pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add well beaten 
eggs, milk, and melted butter. Beat well and add 
pecans. Bake on an ungreased electric waffle iron. 

Mrs. Clarence W. Hoefer. 

84 



Pecan Quick Breads 



4 C. flour 1 t. salt . Butterscotch 

8 t. baking powder 2 T. shortening Rolls 

1% C. milk 
Spread 

2 T. butter 2 C. brown sugar 

2 C. finely chopped pecans 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Cut in shorten- 
ing, and add milk. Roll to % inch thickness. 
Spread melted butter over the dough, and cover 
with brown sugar and pecans. Roll same as jelly 
roll, cut in 1% inch slices, and place on end m a 
well-greased pan sprinkled with remainder of nuts 
and sugar. Bake. 

Mrs. F. L. Furry. 



2V 2 C flour 5 T. shortening Raisin Rolls 

1 T. sugar 1 egg 

4 t. baking powder % O. milk 

1 t. salt Raisins 

Pecans 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Cut in 
shortening. Add beaten egg and milk. Roll out 
thinly. Spread with butter, sprinkle with chopped 
pecans, chopped raisins, and sugar. Cut m 4 inch 
squares. Roll each up as for jelly roll, pressing 
edges together. Stand on end in pan and bake. 

Helen Woodworth. 



! egg % t. salt R^e Waffles 

y 2 C. hot cooked rice 1 t. baking powder 

1 T. sugar 1% C. milk 

2 C. flour 1 T- butter 

X A C. grated pecans 

Beat egg, add rice, mixed and sifted dry 
ingredients, milk, melted butter, and pecans. Bake 
on ungreased electric waffle iron. 

Mrs. A. S. Boyd. 

85 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Bread Crumb 2 eggs 1 C. soft bread crumbs 

Waffles y 2 C. milk y 2 C. grated pecans 

4 T. butter 

Beat egg yolks well. Add milk and bread 
crumbs alternately, pecans, and melted butter. 
Add well beaten egg whites. Bake on an 
ungreased, electric waffle iron. 

V. K. Quackenbush. 



Pecan Parkin 2 C. flour 2 t. ginger 

3 C. oatmeal 2 t. baking powder 

1 C. Crisco 1 t. soda 

% C. molasses 1 egg 

1 C. brown sugar y 2 t. salt 

2 C. chopped pecans y 2 C. Milk 

Cream sugar and Crisco, add well beaten egg, 
Combine with first mixture and add milk, in a 
small portion of which soda has been dissolved. 
Add pecans, reserving a few to decorate top. Bake 
in a moderate oven 20 minutes, in muffin or gem 
pans, if desired. Will make two dozen good sized 
muffins. 

Mrs. Robert Parkinson. 



86 



CHAPTER VI 



PECAN CAKES 

LOAF 

FRUIT 

LAYER 

COOKIES 

DROP CAKES 

MACAROONS 

CAKE FROSTINGS 

CAKE FILLINGS 



"Spare the butter 
and you spoil the 
cake"— 

unless for butter 
fats you substitute 
pecans. 



CHAPTER VI 



Pecan Cakes 

There are few sections of America in which the Long Used 

tor Decorat- 

whole pecan kernel has not been used as the ins Cakes 
crowning decoration on cakes and cookies, from 
the frosted birthday cake to the so-called "sand 
tart" of the Christmas season. The use of pecans 
in layer cake fillings and for similar purposes is 
practiced almost as widely. 



But many of the most delicious cakes which N QW 

a Mam 

follow (based on pecans as an essential ingredient Ingredient 
of the batter) may be new to you. The addition 
of the pecan to your cake ingredients will add not 
only a new, delightful flavor but will add nutri- 
tional value to the highest degree, because all that 
butter had in food elements is included in the 
pecan, plus food qualities which butter does not 
possess. 

89 



The mixing and baking of cakes require skill 
and accuracy, in combination with correct recipes. 
Specific directions are given with each recipe; 
directions in general are as follows: 



Ingredients 

Flour — Should be pastry variety. Sift before meas- 
uring, add baking powder, and re-sift to mix 
baking powder thoroughly with flour. If neces- 
sary to use bread flour, decrease quantity of 
original recipe 2 tablespoons per cup. 



Sugar — Fine granulated insures best texture. Sifted 
for use in sponge cake. 



Butter — Must be excellent quality. May be softened 
by putting in warmed, dry bowl. Never allow 
to melt and become oily. 



Eggs — Should be strictly fresh. If separated, beat 
yolks until creamy and whites until stiff, but 
not too dry, using egg whip. 



Fruits — Clean well, and dry. Seed and cut raisins 
in pieces. Candied fruits should be cut finely, 
peels shredded in narrow strips. Fruits may be 
added to butter and sugar or sprinkled in layers 
as batter is poured into pan. In fruit cakes, 
add to mixture before flour. 



90 



Pecans— Use grated for best results in very light- 
textured cakes, but finely broken or chopped may 
be used in all cakes. 

Spices — Sift with flour. 



Mixing 

Sponge cakes are made light by the beating in 
of air. Follow specific directions, being careful 
not to stir at any time, but always use beating 
motion. Do not continue beating after flour is 
incorporated. Put at once into ungreased pan 
used only for sponge cakes. 

Butter cakes are leavened by use of chemicals. 
Use earthen bowl and wooden spoon for mixing. 
Follow specific directions, beating thoroughly to 
insure fine-grained texture. Never stir after final 
beating. Pour into greased pan which has been 
lightly dusted with flour. Fill pan two-thirds 
full to have cake rise to top of pan. 



Baking 

Do not have oven too hot at start. Put pan in 
center of oven. Baking powder cakes require 
about 350° in layers. If soda is used, lower tem- 

91 



perature slightly. Sponge cakes should be baked 
at about 320° for one hour. Cakes made with 
yolks of eggs bake at lower temperature than 
those made with whites. Fruit cakes are better 
baked in slow oven over a long period of time. 
Small cakes or cookies require higher temperature 
for shorter time than loaf cakes. 

Standard temperatures and terms are as fol- 
lows : 

Slow oven — 250° to 350° 
Medium oven — 350° to 400° 
Hot oven— 400° to 450° 
Very hot oven — 450° to 550° 



92 



Pecan Cakes 



IV2 C. sugar % t. cream of tartar Almond 

% C. water V 2 t. salt Sponge Cake 

6 eggs 1 t. vanilla 

1 C. flour 1 t. almond 

% C. chopped pecans 

Boil sugar and water until it spins a thread 
(238° F.). Beat gradually into the stiffly beaten 
egg whites. When cool, fold in sifted dry ingre- 
dients, well beaten egg yolks, flavoring, and 
pecans. Bake in a slow oven 1 hour. 

Annabel Libby. 



6 egg whites 1 t. cream of tartar Angel Cake 

V2 C. fine gran, sugar 1 C. chopped pecans 
% C. flour Vanilla 

Beat egg whites until stiff. Mix and sift 5 times 
the sugar, flour, and cream of tartar. Fold in, and 
add pecans and flavoring. Bake in ungreased pan 
50 to 60 minutes, increasing heat at last quarter. 
Invert pan and cool. 

Mrs. A. C. Chrisman. 



Y2 C. butter 1 C. flour Cake Squares 

1% C. sugar 1 t. baking powder 

1 t. vanilla t. salt 

4 eggs % t. lemon extract 

3 T. milk % t. almond extract 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Cream butter and % C. sugar. Add vanilla, 
egg yolks, milk, mixed and sifted dry ingredients, 
and lemon extract. Beat well. Spread this batter 
thinly in pan. Beat the egg whites until stiff, 
gradually add remaining sugar and almond flavor- 
ing. Add chopped nuts and spread this mixture 
on top of batter. Sprinkle with sugar and bake 
% hour in moderate oven. Cool and cut in squares 
before removing from pan. 

Mrs. F. E. Hansen. 

93 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Banana Cake IV2 C. sugar 2 eggs 

% C. butter 1% C. flour 
1 C. mashed bananas 1 t. baking powder 

4 T. sour milk Y2 t. salt 
1 t. soda 1 C. chopped pecans 

Cream sugar and butter. Add mashed bananas, 
beat well; add soda dissolved in sour milk, well 
beaten eggs, mixed and sifted dry ingredients. 
Beat thoroughly. Add pecans. Bake. 

Mrs. Elizabeth Hutchins. 



Apple Sauce V2 C. butter 1% C. pastry flour 

Raisin Cake 1 C. sugar 1 t. soda 

1 egg 1 t. cloves 

1 C. raisins 1 t. cinnamon 

1 C. pecans 1 C. apple sauce 

Cream the butter, beat in the sugar gradually. 
Add well beaten egg, and the floured and chopped 
raisins and pecans. Add the flour, sifted with the 
soda and spices, and the thick, hot, strained apple 
sauce. Bake in moderate oven 1 to l 1 /^ hours. 

Theresa Lessmeister. 



Apricot 2 T. butter Apricot halves 

Skillet Cake 1 C. brown sugar Pecan kernels 

Put a large size skillet on top of stove over a 
very slow heat. Into the skillet put butter and 
brown sugar. When melted, lay the apricots, 
hollow side down, on the sugar and butter mixture. 
Put pecans in open spaces left between apricots. 
Then pour following sponge cake mixture over 
nuts and fruit : 

3 eggs IV2 t. baking powder 

1 C. sugar V2 t. salt 

IY2 C. flour V2 C. liquid water and 

V2 fruit juice) 

Beat egg yolks until thick and lemon-colored. 

94 



Pecan Cakes 



Gradually add sugar. Fold in mixed and sifted 
dry ingredients, and stiffly beaten egg whites. 
Bake % hour in a moderate oven. Remove from 
pan and turn upside down. 

Mrs. J. Robert Ansnoiv. 



1 C. sugar 1 t. soda Apple Sauce 

% C. shortening 1 t. cloves Cake 

1 C. apple sauce 1 t. cinnamon 

2 C. flour 1 t. salt 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Cream sugar and shortening. Add apple sauce, 
mixed and sifted dry ingredients, and pecans. 
Beat well. Bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. John Cross. 



2 C. sugar 3 C. flour Banana 

1 Q. butter 2 C. milk White Cake 

6 t. baking powder 2 bananas 

% t. salt 2 T. grated pecans 

5 egg whites 

Cream together sugar and butter. Mix and sift 
dry ingredients, and add alternately with the milk 
to the first mixture. Add crushed bananas and 
pecans, and fold in well beaten egg whites. Bake. 

Mrs. Or a A. Hill. 



1% C. sugar 1 C. fruit juice Birthday Cake 

C. butter % C. chopped pecans 

2% C. flour % C. candied pineapple 

4 t. baking powder % C. candied cherries 

% t. salt \Vz t. almond extract 

4 egg whites 

Cream butter and sugar. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients and add alternately with fruit juice to 
first mixture. Add pecans, floured fruit, flavor- 
ing, and fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake 
about 1 hour. Ice with boiled icing. 

Harriet M. Guerdan. 

95 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Caramel Cake IY2 C. sugar 3 eggs 

V2 C. boiling water 3 C. flour 

1 t. vanilla 4 t. baking powder 
% C. butter 1 C. milk 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Melt I/2 C. sugar slowly and boil until it becomes 
dark brown. Add boiling water and simmer until 
it forms a syrup. When cold, add vanilla. Cream 
the butter and remainder of sugar and add beaten 
eggs. Mix and sift the flour and baking powder 
and add alternately with the milk. Add y% of 
caramel mixture, reserving the other half for 
icing. Stir in the nuts and bake. 

Anna V. Brown. 

Brown Sugar % C. butter 1% C. flour 

Cake 1 C. brown sugar 2 t. baking powder 

% t. salt % C. milk 

2 eggs 1 t. vanilla 

1 C. chopped pecans • 

Cream butter, sugar, and salt. Add well beaten 
egg yolks. Mix and sift dry ingredients 3 times 
and add alternately with milk to first mixture. 
Add vanilla and pecans. Fold in stiffly beaten egg 
whites, and bake. 

Frosting 

1 C. granulated sugar 2 egg whites 

% C. water 14 t. vanilla 

Boil sugar and water until it spins a thread. 
Pour gradually over stiffly beaten egg whites and 
beat until mixture will stand alone. Add vanilla. 
Spread on cake and decorate with pecan kernels. 

Mrs. J. Franklin Bottoff. 

Cherry 1% C. egg whites 1Y 2 C. flour 

Angel Cake % t. salt IY2 t. vanilla 

IV2 t. cream of tartar % C. chopped pecans 

2 C. fine gran, sugar % C. maraschino cherries 

Add salt to egg whites and beat until foamy 
with egg whip on flat platter. Add cream of 
tartar and continue beating until eggs are stiff. 

96 



Pecan Cakes 



Fold sifted sugar in with a knife, 1 T. at a time, 
and flour (4 times sifted) in the same manner. 
Add flavoring, and floured nuts, and cherries. 1 
or IV2 T. water added to mixture gives better 
texture. Bake in ungreased tins 60 to 80 minutes, 
increasing heat at last quarter. Turn upside down 
and cool. 

Charline Woods. 



1 C. sugar 

V 2 C. butter 

3 eggs 

% C. milk or cold coffee 

1 C. orange marmalade 

1 C. chopped pecans 

1 C. raisins 



2 C. flour 

2 t. baking powder 

1 t. nutmeg 

1 t. cinnamon 



Barona Cake 



% t. allspice 



!/4 t. mace 

1 t. vanilla or rind of 1 
lemon 



Cream butter and sugar. Add well beaten eggs, 
milk, marmalade, pecans, raisins, mixed and sifted 
dry ingredients, and flavoring. Bake in a 
moderate oven 35 to 40 minutes. 

Mrs. Francis C. Williams. 



2 C. flour 

1 C. sugar 

1 t. baking powder 
Vz t. salt 
V2 t. cinnamon 
% t. nutmeg 
Y2 t. mace 



2 t. ground chocolate or 

cocoa 
1 C. sour milk 
V2 t. soda 
1 egg 

y 2 C. chopped dates or 

raisins 
y% C. chopped pecans 
1 T. butter 



Chocolate 
Date Cake 



Mix and sift the first eight ingredients. Add 
soda dissolved in sour milk, beaten egg, fruit, 
pecans, and melted butter. Beat well. Bake in 
moderate oven one hour. After taking from oven 
brush over with melted butter. 

Mrs. Geo. W. Gilbert. 



97 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Cereal 1 C. honey 1 C. bread crumbs 

Honey Cake 1 C. uncooked Cream of 1 t. baking powder 

Wheat 1 C. milk 

1 C. grated pecans 

Add honey to Cream of Wheat. Add bread 
crumbs mixed with baking powder, milk, and 
pecans. y 2 C. water may be added. Bake in slow 
oven. 

Mrs. Ant. Khayat. 



Checker Board % C. butter 1 t. nutmeg 

Cake 1% C. sugar 1 t. cinnamon 

2 eggs 1 C. milk 

2V 2 C. flour 1 C. grated pecans 

4 t. baking powder 1 T. cocoa 

% t. salt 1 T. boiling water 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually and beat 
until creamy. Add well beaten eggs and beat. 
Mix and sift dry ingredients and add alternately 
with milk to the first mixture. Add pecans. Fill 
2 layer cake pans with % of the batter. To the 
remaining % add the cocoa mixed with boiling 
water. Use this for the middle layer. Bake in 
hot oven 15 to 20 minutes. 

Filling and Frosting 

2 T. butter 1 t. vanilla 

2 C. conf. sugar 3 T. strong coffee 

1 T. cocoa 1 C. grated pecans 

Cream butter, slowly add sugar and cocoa, beat- 
ing until light and fluffy. Add vanilla, then coffee, 
a few drops at a time. Beat for several minutes, 
or until soft enough to spread. Add pecans and 
spread. 

Mrs. Jean Grief. 



Chocolate j c# sugar ± t baking powder 

^aKe y 3 c . butter % C. chocolate 

1 C. milk 3 eggs 

2% C. flour 1 c. chopped pecans 



98 



Pecan Cakes 



Cream sugar and butter. Add milk, flour sifted 
with baking powder, melted chocolate, eggs, yolks 
and whites beaten separately, and pecans. Bake 
in moderate oven. 

Frosting 

1V 2 T. butter % C. milk 

V2 C. cocoa V2 t. salt 

1% C. conf. sugar 1 t. vanilla 

Melt butter, add cocoa, sugar, milk, and salt. 
Boil 8 minutes. Beat until creamy, add vanilla, 
and spread on cake. Marie E Maeg i eyt 

7 eggs 2 t. baking powder Cherry Cake 

1 C. butter V2 C. chopped citron 

2 C. sugar 1 C. candied cherries 
1 C. milk 1 C. chopped pecans 

3 C. flour 1 t. vanilla 

Beat eggs, add butter and sugar. Beat well and 
add mixed and sifted dry ingredients alternately 
with the milk. Add floured fruits, pecans, and 
vanilla. Bake in moderate oven 2 hours. 

Nell Dooley. 



1 C. sugar It. soda Chocolate 

Y2 C. Crisco 1 C. sour cream Layer Cake I 

2 eggs IY2 C. flour 

3 sq. chocolate or V2 t. salt 
2 T. cocoa Vanilla 

IV2 C. chopped pecans 

Cream sugar and Crisco. Add egg yolks. Beat. 
Add chocolate or cocoa. Mix and sift flour and 
salt and add alternately with the sour cream in 
which soda has been dissolved. Add stiffly beaten 
egg whites, vanilla, and pecans. Bake in layers. 

Frosting 

2 T. cocoa 2 C. powdered sugar 

4 T. hot water 1 t. vanilla 

Mix the ingredients together and spread on and 
between cake. Decorate with pecan halves before 
icing hardens. 

Lilian B. Wilson. 



99 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Chocolate 1% C. sugar 
Layer Cake II % C. butter 

4 eggs 
1 C. milk 



Cocoa 
Angel Cake 



Chocolate 
Potato 
Spice Cake 



1% C. flour 

2 t. baking powder 

3 sq. chocolate 
1 t. vanilla 

1 C. chopped pecans 



Cream sugar and butter, add egg yolks, % of 
the milk and flour mixed and sifted with baking 
powder and salt. Add melted chocolate, remain- 
der of milk and flour, vanilla, and pecans. Fold 
in stiffly beaten egg whites and bake in layers. 

Mrs. R. M. Kahler. 



1 C. egg whites % t. almond extract 

X A t. salt % t. vanilla 

% t. cream of tartar % C. cake flour 
l 1 /* C. fine gran, sugar % C. cocoa 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Add salt to egg whites and beat until foamy on 
large platter with egg whip. Add cream of tartar 
and continue beating until stiff, not dry. Fold in 
the sifted sugar, 1 T. at a time. Add flavoring. 
Sift flour 4 times, add pecans and cocoa, and fold 
in, in the same manner as the sugar. Bake in 
ungreased pan in slow oven 50 to 60 minutes 
increasing heat slightly at the last quarter. Invert 
pan and cool. 

Frosting 

1 T. thick cream 2 C. conf . sugar 

Juice 1 orange 

Mix sugar and cream thoroughly. Add orange 
juice until proper consistency to spread. 

Virginia Helland. 



% C. shortening 
2 C. sugar 
y 2 C. chocolate 

1 C. mashed potatoes 

2 eggs 

% C. milk 
2% C. flour 



5 t. baking powder 
% t. nutmeg 
% t. allspice 
Y2 t. cinnamon 
% t. cloves 

1 C. chopped pecans 

1 t. vanilla 



100 



Pecan Cakes 



Cream shortening, add sugar, melted chocolate, 
and mashed potatoes. Add beaten egg yolks, milk, 
sifted dry ingredients, nuts, vanilla. Beat well. 
Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in mod- 
erate oven 1 hour. 

Mrs. A. R. Johnson. 



3 C. brown sugar 3 C. flour Cocoa Cake 

% C. shortening 4 T. cocoa 

3 eg g S 1% t. soda 

% c! sour milk % C. boiling water 

Cream sugar and shortening and add well 
beaten eggs. Mix and sift flour and cocoa and add 
alternately with the milk to the first mixture. 
Dissolve soda in boiling water and add. Bake. 
Ice with chocolate icing, decorated with pecans. 

Mrs. Daniel Erb. 



y 2 Q t butter 1 t. vanilla extract Chocolate 

2 squares unsweetened % C. flour Squares 
chocolate 1 t. baking powder 

3 eggs y% t« salt 

1 C. sugar 1 C. chopped pecans 

Melt butter, and add chocolate, melted over hot 
water, slightly beaten eggs, sugar, vanilla, mixed 
and sifted dry ingredients, and pecans. Mix well 
and pour in a greased shallow pan. Bake 12 
minutes in a moderate oven. Cut in squares while 
warm. 

Icing 

5 T. water V& t. baking powder 

1 C. sugar 1 egg white 

Grated pecans 

Boil water, sugar, and baking powder until 
mixture forms a soft ball in cold water. Pour on 
stiffly beaten egg white and beat until cool. Add 
vanilla and spread on cake squares. Sprinkle 
thickly with pecans. 

Mrs. H. A. Solenberger. 



101 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Chocolate 1 C. butter y 2 C. cocoa 

Potato Cake 2 C. sugar 1 t. baking powder 

1 C. creamed potatoes 1 t. cloves 

4 eggs 1 t. cinnamon 

V 2 C. milk 1 C. raisins 

2 C. flour 1 C. chopped pecans 

Cream butter and sugar, add potatoes and eggs, 
one at a time. Beat well. Add milk alternately 
with mixed and sifted dry ingredients. Add 
pecans and raisins and bake in moderate oven 45 
minutes. 

Mrs. Elmer Samson. 



Chocolate 
Spice Cake 



1 C. sugar 
1 T. butter 
4 eggs 
3 C. flour 
1 C. molasses 
1 C. buttermilk 



1 t. soda 

1 cake sweet chocolate 
1 t. allspice 
1 t. cinnamon 
1 t. cloves 



2 T. citron 
1 C. chopped pecans 



Cream sugar, butter, and egg yolks. Add flour, 
molasses, soda dissolved in buttermilk, grated 
chocolate, spices, citron, and pecans. Fold in 
stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in layers. 

Mrs. Max Jarodzki. 



Colonial 
Chocolate 
Layer Cake 



% C. brown sugar 

V4t C. chocolate 

% C. milk 

% C. brown sugar 

% C. butter 



l 1 /^ eggs 
V2 C. sour cream 
V2 t. soda 
I'M C. bread flour 
Y2 t. vanilla 
V2 C. pecans 



Mix y 2 C. brown sugar, chocolate, and milk in 
the top of a double boiler. Cook until the choco- 
late dissolves and cool. Cream together % C. 
brown sugar and butter. Add well beaten eggs, 
soda dissolved in sour cream, vanilla, and pecans. 
Then add cooked custard, and flour. Bake in 
layers. 

102 



Pecan Cakes 



Chocolate Frosting 

% C. cream IT. butter 

IV2 sq. chocolate V2 C. chopped pecans 

1 egg yolk Powdered sugar 

Mix the first four ingredients together and cook 
until thick. Remove from fire, add powdered 
sugar until proper consistency. Add pecans, and 
spread on cake. 

Mrs. Walter Stover. 



1 C. sugar 

1 C. shortening 
3 eggs 

V2 C. grape juice 

2 C. flour 
V4, t. allspice 
X A t. cloves 

1 t. cinnamon 
V4, t. grated nutmeg 



% 
3 

% 
1 
1 
1 
2 
2 



t. ground mace 
t. salt 

t. baking powder 
C. pecans 
T. orange peel 
T. lemon peel 
C. sliced citron 
C. seedless raisins 
C. currants 



Christmas 



Cream sugar and shortening. Add beaten egg 
yolks, grape juice, and IV2 C. flour mixed and 
sifted with spices, salt, and baking powder. Grate 
the pecans, put orange and lemon peel through 
food chopper, slice citron fine and add. Dredge 
raisins and currants with remaining % C. flour 
and add. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites and 
bake 3 hours. 

Mrs. Geo. A. Hatenfield. 



1 C. sugar 

1 C. shortening 
5 eggs 

2 C. chopped pecans 

% lb. shredded citron peel 



% C. fruit juice 

^4 t. mace 

2 C. flour 

1 t. baking powder 

1 t. salt 



Citron Cake 



Cream shortening and sugar, beat in yolks of 
eggs one by one. Add pecans, citron, fruit juice 
and flour, mace, baking powder and salt sifted 
together. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. 
Makes large cake. Bake. 

103 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Date Squares 1% C. dates % C. figs 

2 C. chopped pecans 3 T. bread crumbs 

6 egg whites 

Put dates, pecans, figs, and bread crumbs 
through food chopper. Mix well and fold in the 
stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in a loaf or in 
layers. Cut in squares. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

Banbaus M. Sterp. 



Dark % lb. butter 1 t. baking powder 

Fruit Cake 1 lb. brown sugar 3 nutmegs 

6 eggs 1 C. grape juice 

1 C. molasses 1 lb. raisins 

1 lb. flour 2 lb. citron 

2 lb. pecans 

Cream the butter and sugar, add egg yolks, and 
molasses. Mix and sift the dry ingredients and 
add alternately with the grape juice to the first 
mixture. Add chopped pecans, floured fruit, and 
fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake 21/2 hours. 

Mrs. Frank L. Ripy. 



Devil's Food V2 C. butter 2 C. pecans 

1% C. brown sugar 2 C. flour 

2 sq. chocolate 3 t. baking powder 

Vz C. boiling water Y2 C. milk 

2 eggs 1 t. vanilla 

Cream butter and add sugar. Shave chocolate 
in boiling water and dissolve. Add to sugar and 
butter. Add beaten yolks. Mix and sift flour and 
baking powder, add pecans and add alternately 
with the milk to the first mixture. Fold in stiffly 
beaten whites and vanilla. Bake. 

Inez M. Marquez. 

104 



Pecan Cakes 



% C. butter 1 C. raisins Cocoa 

2 C. sugar 1 C. mashed potatoes Potato Cake 
\Vz C. milk 2 C. flour 

3 eggs 3 t. baking powder 
1 C. pecans % C. cocoa 

1 t. preferred flavoring 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the milk, well 
beaten egg yolks, nuts, raisins, potatoes, mixed 
and sifted dry ingredients. Beat well. Fold in 
stiffly beaten egg whites, and flavoring. Bake 
about one hour. Mrs. L. B. Quong. 

2 C. sugar 1 % t. soda Cocoa 

% C. cocoa V2 C. sour milk Layer Cake 

Vz C. butter 2 eggs 

1 C. boiling water V2 C. chopped pecans 

2 C. flour 1 t. vanilla 

1 t. cinnamon 

Mix sugar, cocoa, and butter. Add the boiling 
water. Dissolve soda in sour milk and add 
alternately with the flour to the first mixture. 
Add well beaten eggs, pecans, vanilla, and cinna- 
mon. Bake in two layers. 

Butter Frosting 

2 T. butter Vs t. salt 

% C. conf. sugar IV2 T. milk 

1 t. vanilla 

Cream butter, add sugar, salt, milk, and vanilla. 
Beat and spread on and between cake. 

Mrs. H. Buehrer. 



5 eggs V2 t. salt Date Cake 

1 C. sugar 2 pkg. dates 

C. flour 2 C. chopped pecans 

2 t. baking powder V2 t. vanilla 

Beat egg yolks until light, add sugar, flour 
mixed and sifted with baking powder and salt, 
chopped dates, and pecans. Fold in stiffly beaten 
egg whites and flavor with vanilla. Makes large 
cake. Bake. Mrs. W. C. McCoy. 

105 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Cocoanut Cake 1 C. butter 2 t. baking powder 

2 C. sugar y 2 C. cocoanut 

1 C. milk 2 C. chopped pecans 

3% C. flour 4 egg whites 

Cream butter and sugar. Add milk, mixed and 
sifted dry ingredients, pecans, cocoanut, and stiffly 
beaten egg whites. Bake. 

Mrs. Wm. Notzke. 



Fig Cake 2 C. sugar 2 t. baking powder 

% C. butter 1 t. cinnamon 

1 egg 1 t. nutmeg 

2 C. coffee infusion 4 C. chopped figs 
2% C. flour 1 C. raisins 

3 T. cocoa 1 C. chopped pecans 

Cream sugar and melted butter and add well 
beaten egg. Add coffee infusion alternately with 
mixed and sifted dry ingredients. Add fruit and 
nuts, and bake. 

Mrs. Robert Swanson. 



Fruit 1 C. egg whites (9 to 11 1% C. fine gran, sugar 

Angel Cake eggs) 1 t. vanilla 

% t. salt 1 C. flour 

1 t. cream of tartar y 2 C. chopped pecans 

Raisins or candied cherries 

Add salt to egg whites and beat with a flat egg 
beater until foamy. Add cream of tartar and con- 
tinue beating till the eggs are stiff, but not dry. 
Fold in the sifted sugar, 1 T. at a time. Add 
flavoring and fold in the sifted flour in the same 
manner as the sugar. Put half the batter in an 
angel food pan. Put pecans mixed with chopped 
raisins or candied cherries on top of the batter. 
Add rest of the batter. Spread evenly with a 
knife, run knife through to the bottom of pan and 

106 



Pecan Cakes 



gently mix the fruit. Bake in ungreased pan in 
slow oven 50 to 60 minutes, increasing heat 
slightly at last quarter. Invert pan to cool. 

Mrs. Arne Tossith. 



% C. butter % t. nutmeg Fruit Cake 

1Y 2 C. sugar V2 t. salt 

3 eggs V2 C. orange peel 

x k C. cream 1 C. chopped pecans 

2V 2 C. flour V2 C. citron peel 

2 t. baking powder % lb. raisins 

% C. currants 

Cream butter and sugar, add the beaten egg 
yolks, cream, mixed and sifted dry ingredients, 
finely chopped orange and citron peels, pecans, and 
fruit dredged in flour. Fold in stiffly beaten egg 
whites and bake about 1 hour. 

Mary L. Johnson. 

3 eggs 3 C. grated pecans Donna Clara's 

V2 C. sugar Bread crumbs Cake from 

jjrazil 

Beat egg whites until stiff, add yolks, and beat 
until very light. Beat sugar in slowly. When 
light, add slowly the pecans and y± C. bread 
crumbs that have been dried, ground, and sifted. 
Divide in layers. Butter tins well and dust with 
bread crumbs. Bake in a moderate oven 10 min- 
utes. When cool, spread the following egg filling 
between the layers. Ice the top with a thick white 
sugar icing, using the whites of the eggs used in 
the filling with powdered sugar. 

Filling 

y 2 C. sugar 5 egg yolks 

% C. water % t. vanilla 

Boil sugar and water to thread stage. Remove 
from fire and slowly add the well beaten egg yolks. 
Pour in a double boiler and cook until it thickens. 
Add vanilla. Mrs. A. F. Murray. 

107 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Golden V 2 C. butter % C. milk 

Fruit Cake l 1 /* C. brown sugar V 2 C. raisins 

2 eggs *4 C. citron peel 

2% C. flour % C. chopped pecans 

3% t. baking powder 1 t. chopped lemon rind 

V2 t. salt 1 t. vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar. Add well beaten egg 
yolks. Mix and sift 2 C. flour, baking powder, and 
salt, and add alternately with milk to first mix- 
ture. Add fruits, floured with the remaining 
flour, pecans, and vanilla. Fold in stiffly beaten 
egg whites and bake in a slow oven 1*4 hours. 

Mrs. W. B. Devlin. 



Hawaiian 1 C. brown sugar 1V 2 C. sugar 

Skillet Cake % C. butter l% C. flour 

Pecan halves iy 2 t. baking powder 

Sliced pineapple V 2 C. pineapple juice 

3 eggs y 2 C. chopped pecans 

Put brown sugar and butter in skillet on back of 
stove and let come to a boil. Spread pecan halves 
right side down and slices of pineapple in butter- 
scotch mixture. Pour cake batter over this, made 
in the following way : Beat egg yolks, add sugar, 
mixed and sifted dry ingredients, pineapple juice, 
and pecans. Fold in beaten egg whites. Bake y% 
hour in moderate oven. Turn out upside down 
and serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Carrie S. Miller. 



Feather Cake 1 C. sugar 2 t. baking powder 

% C. butter % C. milk 

2 eggs y 2 C. grated pecans 

2 C. flour 1 t. vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar, and add beaten egg 
yolks. Mix and sift dry ingredients and add 
alternately with milk to the first mixture. Add 
pecans and vanilla. Fold in stiffly beaten egg 
whites and bake in layers. 

108 



Pecan Cakes 



Filling and Frosting 

2 T. butter 1 t. vanilla 

2 C. powdered sugar % C. grated pecans 

Cream 

Combine ingredients, using cream sufficient to 
make the mixture thin enough to spread. 

Mrs. L. E. Ace. 



Vz C. butter 23 graham crackers Graham 
1 C. sugar 2 t. baking powder Cracker Cake 

3 eggs t. salt 

1 C. milk 1 C. chopped pecans 

Cream butter and sugar together. Add beaten 
egg yolks and milk. Add crackers rolled fine, 
mixed with baking powder, salt, chopped or grated 
nuts. Add beaten egg whites. Bake in layers. 

Filling 

2 T. butter 1 egg yolk 

3 T. powdered sugar Vanilla 

Mix ingredients and spread on and between 
cake. 

Mrs. Lucy Denton. 



12 egg whites 2 t. baking powder Gold 

8 egg yolks 1 C. milk Bride's Cake 

2 C. sugar Flavoring 

1 C. butter 1 C. chopped pecans 

3 C. flour % C. candied cherries 

Cream the egg yolks, sugar, and butter. Mix 
and sift dry ingredients and add alternately with 
the milk to the first mixture, and flavor. Add 
beaten egg whites. Pour half the batter in a cake 
pan, sprinkle with pecans and cherries, then add 
the rest of the batter. Run a knife through to the 
bottom of pan and gently mix in the pecans and 
cherries. Bake. 

Mrs. G. DeLitterest. 

109 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Gingerbread 



Lemon Cake 



Layer Cake 



1 C. molasses 
1 egg 

5 T. butter 
1 t. ginger 



1% C. flour 
V2 C. chopped pecans 
1 t. soda 
% C. hot water 



Beat together molasses and egg. Add melted 
butter, ginger, flour, pecans, and soda dissolved 
in hot water. Bake. 

Mrs. S. Benson. 



% C. butter 



IY2 C. sugar 
4 eggs 
Grated rind of 1 lemon 



t. 



1 C. chopped pecans 
1 C. milk 

3 C. flour 

4 t. baking powder 
salt 



Cream the butter. Gradually beat half the 
sugar into the butter and the other half into the 
egg yolks. Beat the two mixtures together. Add 
the lemon rind and nuts, and milk alternately with 
the mixed and sifted dry ingredients. Fold in 
stiffly beaten 6gg whites and bake. 

Honey Frosting 

1 T. corn syrup 
1 egg white 

Mix ingredients and cook 7 minutes in the top 
of a double boiler, beating constantly with a Dover 
egg beater. 

Luella B. Walker. 



V2 C. honey 



2 C. sugar 

1 C. butter 

4 eggs 

1 t. soda 

1 C. buttermilk 



3 C. flour 

1 t. cinnamon 

V2 t. cloves 

1 C. chopped pecans 

1 C. pear preserves 



Cream sugar and butter. Add well beaten egg 
yolks. Dissolve soda in buttermilk and add alter- 
nately with mixed and sifted dry ingredients. 
Add pecans and preserves. (Plums or prunes 
may be used) . Bake in layers. 

Mrs. Harry Prather. 

iio 



Pecan Cakes 



1 egg % t. soda Honey Cake 

% C. sugar Flour 
1 C. honey V2 C. chopped pecans 

Beat the egg; mix well with the sugar and 
honey. Add the soda with enough flour to make a 
dough which can be kneaded with the hands. Mix 
in pecans. Pat into shape in small, round, greased 
pan, score with fork, decorate with halved pecans. 
Let stand 3 hours in warm place. Bake in slow 
oven. 

Mrs. M. L. Lott. 



6 eggs 1 C. flour Jelly Roll 

2 C. sugar 4 T. grated pecans 

Beat eggs and sugar in pan of warm water until 
lukewarm and smooth. Take from fire, add flour 
and grated nuts which have been roasted before 
grating. Pour on a pan % inch thick; bake in a 
hot oven. Spread with jam, roll up and cover 
with jam and chopped pecans. 

Mrs. Alice Mend. 



1 t. soda 1 egg Pecan 

1 C. hot water 1 t. vanilla Lazy Daisy 

1 C. dates 1 t. salt Date Cakes 

1 C. brown sugar 1 C. chopped pecans 

1 T. butter IV2 C. flour 

1 t. baking powder 

Dissolve soda in hot water and pour over the 
dates. Cool. Cream the sugar and melted butter. 
Add the egg, vanilla, salt, pecans, and flour sifted 
with baking powder. Add the dates and water, 
and bake in layers. Cut into squares, spread cus- 
tard between two squares, spread whipped cream 
on top, and decorate with pecans in the form of a 
daisy with cherry for center. 

Mrs. Eleanor M. Bennett. 



ill 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Lemon 6 eggs V2 lemon rind 

Sponge Cake 1 C. sugar 1 C. flour 

2 T. lemon juice % t. salt 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Beat yolks of eggs until thick and lemon colored. 
Gradually beat in the sugar, grated lemon rind, 
and juice. Fold in half of the stiffly beaten egg 
whites. Cut in sifted flour and salt, add nuts, and 
remaining egg whites. Bake in a slow oven for 

1 hour. 

Mrs. Robt. Ansly. 

Loaf Cake 1 C. sugar Y2 C. milk 

% C. butter 2 C. flour 

2 eggs 2 t. baking powder 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Cream butter, sugar, and egg yolks. Add milk, 
and mixed and sifted dry ingredients alternately. 
Add pecans, and well beaten egg whites. Bake. 

Frosting 

2 C. sugar V2 box marshmallows 
Water Pecans 

Add enough water to sugar to prevent it from 
scorching. Cook to a syrup, beat in marsh- 
mallows, whip until creamy, and spread on cake. 
Decorate with pecans. 

Margie Graham. 



Manheim % C. butter Y2 t. salt 

White Cake 1% C. sugar 1 C. milk 

3 C. flour 1 C. chopped pecans 

3 t. baking powder 3 egg whites 

1 t. vanilla 

Cream butter, and sugar. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients and add alternately with milk to the 
first mixture. Add pecans, vanilla, and fold in 
stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake as a loaf or in 
layers. 

Mrs. H. B. Behrens. 

112 



Pecan Cakes 



% t. soda 1 t. maple flavoring Maple 

1 C. boiling water 1 egg Date Cake 

1 C. dates % t. salt 

3 T. butter 1% C. flour 

1 C. sugar 3 t. baking powder 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Dissolve soda in boiling water and pour over 
chopped dates. Cool. Cream the butter, sugar, 
and maple flavoring, and mix with dates. Beat 
the egg, add the salt, and stir into mixture. Add 
flour and baking powder sifted together 3 times. 
Stir in pecans and bake. 

Ruby Gerner. 

Yz C. butter % C. milk Maple Cake 

1 C. brown sugar IV2 C. flour 

2 eggs X A t. salt 

1 t. vanilla 2 t. baking powder 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Cream the shortening, add sugar, egg yolks, 
flavoring, and milk. Add mixed and sifted dry 
ingredients, nuts, and stiffly beaten egg whites. 
Bake in moderate oven 35 to 45 minutes. 

Maple Frosting 
1 C. maple syrup 2 egg whites 

Cook syrup until it threads. Pour slowly into 
the beaten egg whites and whip until thick enough 
to spread. Decorate with pecans. 

Mrs. Ella Ahlstrom. 

V 2 C. butter 1% C. flour Mocha Cake 

1 C. sugar 2% t. baking powder 

1 C. cold coffee 1 C. chopped pecans 

3 egg whites 

Cream butter and sugar. Add the coffee alter- 
nately with the mixed and sifted flour and baking 
powder. Add pecans, fold in stiffly beaten egg 
whites. Decorate top with pecans and bake. 

Mrs. K. D. Gross. 

113 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Mary Todd's C. butter % t. soda 

Raisin Cake 1 C. sugar V2 t. baking powder 

3 eggs X A grated nutmeg 

V2 C. orange juice 1% C. raisins 

2 C. flour IV2 C. chopped pecans 

Cream butter, gradually add sugar and egg 
yolks. Mix and sift dry ingredients and add alter- 
nately with the orange juice to the first mixture. 
Beat well, add floured fruit, and pecans. Fold in 
stiffly beaten egg whites and bake in moderate 
oven 1 to 2 hours. 

Irma J. Bans. 



Meringue Cake V 2 C. butter V 2 C. milk 

1 C. sugar 1 t. vanilla extract 
4 eggs 1 t. lemon extract 

2 C. flour 1 C. broken pecans 
2 t. baking powder V2 C. sugar 

Cream the butter and sugar and add egg yolks. 
Mix and sift dry ingredients and add alternately 
with milk to first mixture. Add flavoring. Beat 
egg whites until stiff. Add % to batter and divide 
into 2 layers. Spread pecans evenly over the top 
of each layer and cover with remaining egg whites 
to which has been added ^ C. sugar. Bake in a 
slow oven 14 hour. 

Mrs. G. H. Barnum. 



Mocha 1 lb. sugar 1 lb. flour 

Fruit Cake % lb. butter 1 t. baking powder 

2 nutmegs 2 lb. raisins 

6 eggs i/i lb. orange peel 

1 C. molasses V2 lb. candied pineapple 

1 C. coffee V2 lb. candied cherries 

IV2 lb. chopped pecans 

Cream butter, sugar, and nutmeg. Add 
molasses, well beaten eggs, coffee, sifted flour and 
baking powder, floured fruit and nuts. Bake 4 
hours in slow oven. 

Mrs. Geo. Bancroft. 

114 



Pecan Cakes 



% C. chocolate 2 C. flour Mocha 

% C. milk 1 t. soda Chocolate 

IV2 C. sugar 1 t. cream of tartar Cake 

V2 C. butter % C. chopped pecans 

3 eggs 1 t. vanilla 

Melt the chocolate with the milk. Cook until 
thick. Let cool. Cream the sugar, butter and egg 
yolks and add to the first mixture. Add the flour 
sifted with the soda and cream of tartar, pecans, 
vanilla, and fold in beaten egg whites. 

Mocha Frosting 

2 C. powdered sugar 2 T. butter 

4 T. grated chocolate 1 T. vanilla 

2 T. cocoa 4 TV strong hot coffee 

Mix together sugar, chocolate, cocoa, butter, 
and vanilla. When ready to ice, add 4 T. strong, 
hot coffee. Decorate with pecan halves. 

Mrs. Helene H. Ward. 



IV2 C. sugar 2 C. flour Mocha 

Y2 C. butter 2 T. cocoa Raisin Cake 

1 egg y 2 C. hot coffee 

1 t. soda 1 t. vanilla 

V2 C. sour milk V 2 C. pecans 

Y2 C. raisins 

Cream butter and sugar. Add well beaten egg, 
soda dissolved in sour milk, flour, cocoa dissolved 
in coffee, vanilla, pecans and raisins. Bake in slow 
°ven. Mrs. A. Griswold. 

1 C. butter 1V 2 t. baking powder Orange Cake 

2 C. sugar y 2 grated nutmeg 
6 eggs 1 C. orange juice 
4 C. flour 1 lb. raisins 

2 C. chopped pecans 

Cream butter and sugar, gradually add the well 
beaten egg yolks. Mix and sift dry ingredients 
and add alternately with orange juice. Add 
floured fruits and nuts, and fold in stiffly beaten 
egg whites. Bake in moderate oven 2 hours. 

Nannie Kernodle. 

115 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Oriental 1 C. butter 1 t. nutmeg 

Fruitade 2 C. sugar V2 t. cloves 

Cake 5 eggs 2 t. baking powder 

1 C. jam 1 C. milk 

1 C. chopped pecans 2 t. vanilla 

3% C. flour 1 C. seeded raisins 

2 t. cinnamon 1 C. ground dates 

1 C. ground figs 

Cream butter, gradually add sugar and beat 
until creamy. Add well beaten egg yolks, jam, and 
pecans. Sift the dry ingredients several times and 
add alternately with the milk to the first mixture, 
beating hard after each addition of flour and milk. 
Add vanilla, and fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. 
Beat hard, but do not stir. Add floured fruits, 
and fold over carefully until well mixed. Bake 
slowly in moderate oven. 

Mrs. Wm. M. Jones. 



Pineapple 
Squares 



3 eggs 1 C. bread crumbs 

1 C. sugar % C. chopped pecans 

1 C. crushed pineapple 

Beat egg yolks. Add sugar, bread crumbs, 
pecans, and pineapple. Fold in stiffly beaten egg 
whites and bake in moderate oven 20 or 25 min- 
utes. Cut in squares. 

Mrs. M. C. Powell. 



Raisin 

Cracker Cake 



1 C. sugar IV2 t. nutmeg 

5 eggs V2 t. baking powder 

20 soda crackers % t. vanilla 

V2 t. salt V/s C. raisins 

IV2 t. cinnamon % C. citron 

2 C. chopped pecans 

Cream eggs and sugar. Pulverize, and sift 
crackers, mix with other dry ingredients, and add 
to first mixture. Add flavoring, fruits and pecans. 
Bake. 

Mrs. John Walton. 

116 



Pecan Cakes 



% C. butter 2 t. ginger £? isin , A 

% C. molasses % t. cinnamon Gingerbread 
% C. sugar 1 t. soda 

2 eggs % C. sour milk 

3 C. flour % C. raisins 

1 t. salt Mi C. chopped pecans 

Cream butter, molasses, and sugar. Add well 
beaten eggs. Mix and sift dry ingredients. Dis- 
solve soda in sour milk and add alternately with 
the dry ingredients to the first mixture. Add 
raisins and pecans and bake in slow oven 45 min- 
utes. May be cut in squares while warm and 
served with whipped cream or hard sauce. 

Mrs. Frederick W. Gerting. 

V* C. butter 2 t. baking powder Raisin Graham 

1 C. sugar V 2 t. salt Cracker Cake 

3 eggs V2 C. chopped raisins 

% C. milk V2 C. chopped pecans 

26 crushed graham crackers 1 t. vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar, and add well beaten 
egg yolks. Mix and sift dry ingredients and add 
alternately with the milk. Add vanilla, nuts, 
raisins; beat well, and fold in stiffly beaten egg 
whites. Bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. F. 0. Sharkey. 

1% C. butter 1 egg yolk Sonnental 

% C. sugar 1% C. flour Cake 

1 t. lemon 

Cream butter and sugar, add egg yolk, flour, 
and lemon. Let stand % hour. Roll out and cut 
into 3 layers the size of the cake tin. Bake. 

Filling 

1 C. grated pecans Rind and juice of 1 lemon 

1 C. coffee Sugar 

Mix ingredients and spread on cake, adding 
sugar until proper consistency is obtained. Let 
stand 4 days before using. 

Mrs. Alice Mend 

117 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Spanish y 2 C. butter I t. cinnamon 

Praline Cake 1 C. brown sugar V2 t. mace 

2 eggs y 2 t. cloves 

1% C. flour % C. milk 

2 t. baking powder Pecan halves 

Cream butter. Gradually beat in the sugar and 
egg yolks. Mix and sift dry ingredients and add 
alternately with the milk to the first mixture. Fold 
in stiffly beaten egg whites. Turn into a shallow 
pan. Sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon, and pecans. 
Bake. 

Mrs. R. M. Lyman. 



Spice Cake 1 C. butter 2 t. baking powder 

1 C. sugar 1 t. vanilla 

4 eggs 1 C. chopped pecans 

1 C. milk 1 C. brown sugar 

2^2 C flour 2 t. cinnamon 

Cream butter and sugar. Add well beaten eggs, 
milk, flour and baking powder sifted together, and 
vanilla. Pour batter thinly in pans. Mix pecans, 
brown sugar, and cinnamon, and spread on top 
of batter. Bake. 

Mrs. C. J. Dexter. 



Raisin Cake 2 C. sugar 3 t. mace 

V 2 C. butter % C. milk 

3 C. flour 3 eggs 

3 t. baking powder Raisins 

Chopped pecans 

Cream sugar and butter. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients and add alternately with milk to first 
mixture. Add well beaten eggs. Pour a layer of 
batter in pan. Sprinkle with chopped raisins and 
pecans. Repeat until the pan is % full. Bake in 
a slow oven % to % hour. 

118 



Pecan Cakes 



Frosting 

1 C. sugar 5 T. milk 

Pecans 

Boil sugar and milk 5 minutes. Remove from 
fire, flavor to taste, beat until white and creamy, 
and spread on cake. Decorate with pecans. 

Adelma S. Knowlen. 



1 t. soda 1 egg Spice 

1 C. water IV2 C. flour Date Cake 

1 pkg. dates V2 t. cloves 

1 T. butter V2 t. cinnamon 

1 C. sugar 1 C. chopped pecans 

Dissolve soda in water and pour over chopped 
dates. Cream butter and sugar, add beaten egg, 
mixed and sifted dry ingredients, pecans and date 
mixture. Beat well and bake. 

Minnie Guttmann. 



1 C. butter 1 C. milk Southern 

2 C. sugar 6 egg whites Silver Cake 
SV2 C. flour 1 C. chopped pecans 

3 t. baking powder 1 t. vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients four times and add alternately with 
the milk to the first mixture. Fold in stiffly beaten 
egg whites, pecans, and vanilla. Bake. 

Mrs. George Booth. 

V2 C. butter V2 C. finely cut citron Silver 

1 C. sugar V2 C. Sultana raisins Raisin Cake 

1% C. flour V2 C. chopped pecans 

1 t. baking powder V2 t. almond extract 

V2 t. salt V2 t. vanilla extract 

% C. grated cocoanut 5 egg whites 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually. Mix and 
sift dry ingredients four times, add slowly to first 
mixture, beating well. Add floured fruits, nuts, 
and flavoring. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites 
and bake slowly. 

Mrs. Edw. Hanke. 

119 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Pineapple 
Cake 



Spice and 
Fruit Cake 



1 C. sugar 

2 T. butter 

1 egg 

2 C. flour 

2 t. baking powder 
% t. salt 



1 C. milk 
Vz t. lemon 
i/2 t. vanilla 
% C. grated pineapple 
i/i C. shredded cocoanut 
% C. chopped pecans 



Cream sugar and butter, and add well beaten 
egg. Mix and sift dry ingredients 3 times and add 
alternately with the milk to the first mixture. Add 
flavoring, drained floured pineapple, pecans, and 
shredded cocoanut. Bake. 



1 C. conf. sugar 

2 T. butter 
% t. vanilla 
% t. lemon 



Frosting 

2 T. grated pineapple 
2 T. shredded cocoanut 
2 T. chopped pecans 
Hot milk 



Cream sugar and butter. Add flavoring, fruit, 
nuts and enough hot milk to make the right con- 
sistency to spread. 

Mrs. Ray E. Lar alette. 



1 C. sugar 
V4c C. butter 

3 eggs 
% C. milk 
2V2 C. flour 

2 t. baking powder 
% t. mace 



*4 t. nutmeg 
1 t. cinnamon 
Y2 t. cloves 
1 t. allspice 
% C. raisins 
% C. currants 
% C. pecans 



Cream butter and sugar. Add well beaten eggs, 
milk, mixed and sifted dry ingredients, fruit and 
nuts. Bake in a slow oven. 

Mrs. S. Moore. 



White V2 C. butter % C. pecans 

Loaf Cake 1 C. sugar % C. milk 

2 eggs IV2 C. flour 

IV2 t. baking powder 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, then the 
pecans, well beaten egg yolks, milk, and mixed and 
sifted dry ingredients. Add stiffly beaten egg 

120 



Pecan Cakes 



whites and bake. When baked, cover with 
whipped cream and sprinkle with pecans. 

Anna Belle Booth. 



1 C butter 2 t. baking powder Watermelon 

m C. sugar % G. pecans Cake 
1 C. milk 4 egg whites 

3 C. flour 1 t. vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar. Add milk alternately 
with flour mixed and sifted with dry ingredients, 
and stiffly beaten egg whites. Divide batter, color- 
ing % of it pink with red sugar or cake coloring. 
Flavor the rest with vanilla. Pour half of the 
white into a buttered pan. In the center pour half 
of the pink and place in this a thick row of pecan 
halves for seeds. Pour in the remainder of the 
pink and the white. Bake. 

Edna May Ewert. 



Melted butter Pineapple Upside Down 

1 C. brown sugar Cherries ^a* e 

Pecans 

Put a layer of melted butter *4 inch deep into 
a pan. Put a layer of brown sugar on top of the 
melted butter. Then make a layer of sliced pine- 
apple, cherries, and pecans, making a design. 
Pour the following cake batter on this : 

y 2 C. butter 2 C. flour 

IV2 C. sugar 2 t. baking powder 

3 eggs % C. milk 

Cream butter and sugar. Add well beaten egg 
yolks. Mix and sift dry ingredients and add alter- 
nately with milk to the first mixture. Fold m 
stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake and turn out up- 
side down. ^ T ■ 

Blanche Zach. 

121 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Spice 1 C. brown sugar 1 t. cinnamon 

Gingerbread 1 C. molasses 1 T. ginger 

1 C. shortening y 2 t. nutmeg 
3% C. bread flour % t. salt 

2 t. soda 1 C. sour milk 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Cream together sugar, molasses, and shorten- 
ing. Mix and sift dry ingredients and add alter- 
nately with the sour milk. Beat well. Add pecans 
and bake 40 minutes in moderate oven. 

Mina C. Ahrens. 



White 
Fruit Cake 



1 C. butter 
1 C. sugar 

1 C. milk 
2% C. flour 

2 t. baking powder 



1 C. pecans 
% lb. citron peel 
1 lb. raisins 

1 orange, juice and rind 
7 egg whites 



Cream butter and sugar. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients and add alternately with the milk. 
Add floured fruit, chopped nuts, and fold in stiffly 
beaten egg whites. Bake in a slow oven 2 hours. 

Mrs. R. L. Ligat. 



Chocolate 
Squares 



3 T. butter 
1 C. sugar 

1 egg 

2 oz. unsweetened chocolate 
V2 t. vanilla 



1/3 C. milk 
1 C. flour 
1 t. baking powder 



V2 t. salt 



V2 C. chopped pecans 



Melt shortening, add sugar and unbeaten egg, 
and mix well. Add melted chocolate, vanilla, milk, 
mixed and sifted dry ingredients, and pecans. 
Spread thinly on a greased shallow cake pan and 
bake in a slow oven 20 to 30 minutes. Cut into 2- 
inch squares before removing from pan. 

Lyle Evans. 

122 



Pecan Cakes 



1 C. sugar % t. cinnamon Spfced 

1 C. water % t. allspice Raism Cake 

% C. shortening % t. nutmeg 
1^ C. raisins t. ginger 

1% C. flour Citron peel 

% t. soda Orange peel 

y 2 t. salt Lemon peel 

y 2 t. cloves % C. chopped pecans 

Boil the first 4 ingredients together for five min- 
utes. Cool, add mixed and sifted dry ingredients, 
peels, and pecans. Bake in a slow oven 1 hour. 

Mrs. Jennie Eifert. 



1 C. sugar 1 t. vanilla extract Sponge Cake 

1 C. water 1 C. pastry flour 

5 eggs % C. chopped pecans 

1 t. lemon extract r k t. salt 

Boil sugar and water until it spins a thread. 
Add gradually to stiffly beaten egg whites and beat 
15 minutes. Add the well beaten egg yolks, 
extract, and sifted flour. Pour half of batter in 
pan, sprinkle with pecans, add remainder of 
batter. Bake from 45 to 55 minutes. 

Mamie Bosselman. 



2 C. sugar 1 t. allspice ^ite 

1 C. butter 1 t. cloves Spice Cake 

6 eggs 1 t. cinnamon 

1 t. vanilla 1 C. milk 

3 C. flour 1 C. citron 

2 t. baking powder 1 C. raisins 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Cream sugar and butter. Add well beaten egg 
yolks and flour. Mix and sift dry ingredients and 
add alternately with the milk to the first mixture. 
Add floured fruit, and nuts, and fold in stiffly 
beaten egg whites. Bake. 

V. Phillips. 

123 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



White and 
Gold Layer 
Cake 



Uncooked 
Fruit Cake 



% C. butter 
1% C. sugar 
1% C. flour 



White Cake 

2 t. baking powder 
1 t. vanilla 
% C. chopped pecans 

5 egg whites 



Cream butter and sugar. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients and add alternately with the milk to 
the first mixture. Add vanilla and pecans. Fold 
in stiffly beaten egg whites and bake in two layers. 



Gold Cake 

2 t. baking powder 
V2 C. boiling water 
Y2 t. vanilla 
% t. lemon extract 



5 egg yolks 
IV2 C. sugar 

V2 t. salt 
IV2 C. flour 

Beat egg yolks, add sugar and salt. Add flour 
and baking powder sifted together 3 times, water, 
and flavoring. Bake in 2 layers. Put white and 
gold layers together alternately with following 
filling : 



3 C. sugar 

1 C. boiling water 

3 egg whites 

1 C. chopped pecans 



Vz C. chopped raisins 
% C. chopped figs 
1 t. vanilla 
1 t. lemon juice 



Boil sugar and water until it threads. Pour 
gradually over stiffly beaten egg whites and beat 
until creamy. Add pecans, fruit and flavoring, 
and spread. 

Mrs. Gynith C. Shaw. 



1 C. grape juice *4 lb. 

1 C. blackberry juice V2 lb. 
Cinnamon bark Y2 lb. 
Few whole cloves % lb. 

^4 t. allspice % lb. 

y& t. nutmeg % lb. 

2 C. oatmeal 1% lb. 
IY2 C. shredded wheat % C. 

% lb. pecans 4 T. 



citron 

candied pineapple 

candied cherries 

figs 

dates 

currants 

seeded raisins 

honey 

olive oil 



Combine the fruit juices and add spices. Sim- 
mer until well flavored with spices. Strain 

124 



Pecan Cakes 



through cheese cloth. Put oatmeal and shredded 
wheat through a food chopper before measuring. 
Reheat the fruit juice to boiling point and pour 
over cereals. Cover and set away overnight. Add 
honey and olive oil to mixture. Combine nuts and 
fruit and blend thoroughly with mixture. Line 
pan with waxed paper. Pack the mixture in this, 
decorate top with pecan halves and cherries, and 
cover with waxed paper. Put in covered bread 
box and set in a cool place for several weeks or 
longer. Several days before cutting, wrap in cloth 
wet with grape juice. 

Alma Horton. 




1 C. sugar 
% C. water 

2 egg whites 



% C. chopped pecans 
6 chopped maraschino 
cherries 
% G. chopped pineapple 



Cherry Filling 



Boil sugar and water to 238° F. Pour over 
stiffly beaten egg whites and beat. Add nuts and 
fruit and beat until cool. Spread. 

Marie Flint McCall. 



1 T. butter 
1% C. sugar 



% C. strong hot coffee 
V2 t. vanilla 
1 C. grated pecans 

Cream butter, add sugar, coffee, vanilla, and 
pecans. 

Mrs. Caroline W. Trotter. 



Mocha 
Frosting 



Boiled icing % lb. candied cherries Fruit Filling 

% lb. orange peel ^4 lb. citron and Frosting 

1 C. pecans 

Divide icing into 2 parts, one of which is colored 
yellow. To one part add chopped fruit and pecans 
for filling. Cover the top of cake with plain icing 
and decorate with pecan halves. 

Alma Horton. 

125 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



2 bananas % t. salt 

1 T. lemon juice V2 C chopped pecans 

Powdered sugar 

Peel and mash the bananas. Add lemon juice^ 
salt, and pecans. Stir in sifted powdered sugar 
to make it of a consistency to spread. 

Mrs. Nira Woods. 



V2 C. butter 1 t. cloves 

1 C. sugar 1 t. allspice 

7 egg yolks IV2 C. raisins 

1 t. cinnamon 1 C. water 

1 C. pecans 

Cream butter and sugar, add well beaten egg 
yolks, and remaining ingredients. Cook in double 
boiler until thick, stirring constantly. 

Mrs. George Booth. 



1 C. sugar Vs C. raisins 

Ys C. water % C. cherries 

1 egg white Vs C. pineapple 

Vs C. figs % C. chopped pecans 

Boil sugar and water until it spins a thread. 
Beat egg whites until dry, add syrup gradually, 
beating until stiff and cool. Add nuts and fruit 
and spread. 

Mrs. J. P. Wheat. 



Juice and pulp of 1 orange 1 C. powdered sugar 

2 C. chopped pecans 

Cook orange and sugar together 3 minutes, cool 
and beat until it thickens. Add nuts and spread. 

Mrs. Nettie D. Mercer. 

126 



Pecan Cakes 



3 T. flour 1 C. sugar Banana 

Water y 2 C. chopped pecans Filling 

% C. butter 2 bananas 

Mix enough water with the flour to make a soft 
dough. Cook in an iron or steel skillet, stirring 
constantly until the dough is all on the spoon in 
the shape of a ball. Cream the butter and sugar 
and work into the paste. Add pecans, and mashed 
bananas. Spread. 

Mrs. Louis E. Raisler. 



IV2 C. sugar 3 egg whites 

% C. water 1 C. chopped pecans 

12 marshmallows % t. almond extract 

Boil sugar and water until it spins a long 
thread. Add cut marshmallows and let stand until 
marshmallows dissolve. Beat syrup into stiffly 
beaten egg whites. Add pecans and almond 
extract. 

Ruth Bee Kuhn. 



Marshmallow 
Frosting 



C. grated pineapple 
C. chopped pecans 



1 egg white 

2 C. confectioner's sugar 

Add sugar gradually to unbeaten egg white. 
Add pineapple and chopped pecans and beat until 
mixture is of the right consistency to spread. 

Mrs. Lillian Ross. 



Pineapple 
Frosting 



% C. grated pecans iy 2 C. confectioner's sugar Uncooked 

2 T. orange juice 1 T. grated orange rind Orange 

1 egg yolk 1 T. lemon juice Frosting 

Mix pecans with orange juice and let stand a 
few minutes. Beat the egg yolk until light and 
creamy. Add sugar, orange rind, lemon juice, and 
first mixture. Beat until frosting is stiff enough 
to spread. 

Catherine Richards. 

127 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Fudge 
Frosting 



2 oz. chocolate 
% C. butter 
1 C. milk 



2% C. sugar 
2 t. flour 
Y2 t. vanilla 
Y2 C. chopped pecans 



Melt chocolate over hot water. Gradually add 
butter and milk, stirring constantly. Bring to the 
boiling point and add the sugar. Boil until it 
reaches the soft ball stage. Cool slightly, add 
flour, and beat until of the right consistency to 
spread. Add pecans and vanilla. 

Mrs. E. M. Drake. 



Cherry Drops 1 C. butter 

Y2 C. sugar 
2 eggs 



2V 2 C. flour 

1 t. baking powder 
14 C. grated pecans 
Maraschino cherries 



Cream butter and sugar. Add egg yolks, mixed 
and sifted dry ingredients, and half of pecans. 
Mold a teaspoonf ul of the mixture into a ball, then 
flatten. Dip tops in unbeaten egg white, then in 
chopped pecans. Put *4 of a maraschino cherry 
on top of each cake, place on a greased pan, and 
bake 

Mrs. W. H. Covell. 



Chocolate 
Discs 



% C. sugar 
% C. butter 

1 egg 

2 T. milk 



Vs t. cinnamon 
V2 t. baking powder 
2% C. flour 
1 sq. chocolate 
V2 C. chopped pecans 



Cream sugar and butter, add egg and beat well. 
Add milk, mixed and sifted dry ingredients, finely 
shaved chocolate, and pecans. Work into a roll 
two inches thick. Cut-off slices *4 inch thick, 
place in greased pans, and bake. 

Mrs. N. Wilde. 

128 



Pecan Cakes 



2 egg whites 2 C. grated pecans Almond 

1 C. powdered sugar % t. almond extract Macaroons 

Beat egg whites until stiff. Add sugar, nuts, 
and flavoring. Drop from a teaspoon 2 inches 
apart on a greased tin. Let stand a few minutes, 
then bake in a slow oven. Do not remove from 
pan until cool. 

Mrs. Thos. W. Kennedy. 



1% C. sugar IV2 t. baking powder ^hite 

1/2 C. butter % C. milk Perfection 

% C. cornstarch 6 egg whites Cake 

IV2 C. flour Pecans 

Cream sugar and butter. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients and add alternately with milk to first 
mixture. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour 
a layer of batter into pan, then a layer of grated 
pecans, and repeat until batter is used. Bake. 

Mrs. James Buekley. 



1 C. sugar 2 T. flour Balls 

2 C. grated pecans 2 egg whites 

Mix together the sugar, pecans, and flour. Beat 
egg whites until stiff, add to mixture, and form 
into a firm paste. Form into balls, dust with con- 
fectioner's sugar, place on greased paper, and 
bake until light brown. 

Mrs. G. S. Badie. 



2 egg whites 2 C. brown sugar Brown Sugar 

2 C. chopped salted pecans Macaroons 

Beat egg whites until stiff. Slowly add the 
brown sugar and salted pecans. Drop from a 
teaspoon 1 inch apart on a greased baking sheet. 
Bake until medium brown in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Elzie Ayers. 

129 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Chocolate 2 sq. chocolate 1 can condensed milk 

Clusters 1 C. chopped pecans 

Melt chocolate, add milk, and cook until thick. 
Add nuts, drop from a teaspoon on a buttered pan 
and bake until brown. 

Mrs. Paulina Z. Brunt. 



Chocolate V2 C. butter 1 C. chopped pecans 

Drop Cakes 1 C. sugar % t. vanilla 

1 egg y 2 t. baking powder 

2 sq. unsweetened chocolate V2 C. bread flour 

Cream butter and sugar. Add well beaten egg, 
melted chocolate, pecans, vanilla, baking powder, 
and flour. Drop from a teaspoon on a buttered 
baking sheet, and bake 15 minutes. 

Mrs. Arlington Gorman. 



Chinese 3 eggs 1 C. flour 

Hardtack 1 C. sugar It. baking powder 

1 t. lemon juice 1 C. chopped pecans 

1 C. chopped dates 

Beat the eggs, add sugar, lemon juice, mixed 
and sifted dry ingredients, pecans, and dates. 
Bake until brown in a shallow bread pan. Remove 
from the oven and cut in narrow strips. 

Mrs. A. B. Olmore. 



Fig Cakes 1 C. butter 1 t. soda 

IV2 C. sugar 1 t. cinnamon 

3 eggs y 2 t. allspice 

3 C. flour 15 figs chopped 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Cream butter and sugar. Add well beaten eggs, 
mixed and sifted dry ingredients, figs, and pecans. 
Drop from a teaspoon on buttered baking sheet. 
Bake. 

Mrs. A. Fedder. 

130 



Pecan Cakes 



1 C. sugar 2 t. baking powder Citron Cakes 

1 C. butter 1 C. pecans 

3 eggs % lb. citron peel 

2 C. flour 1 t. vanilla 

Cream sugar and butter. Add well beaten eggs, 
mixed and sifted dry ingredients, chopped pecans, 
citron, and vanilla. Drop from a teaspoon on a 
buttered baking sheet and bake. 

Mrs. A. E. Reton. 



2 C. sugar 1 C. chopped pecans Citron 

V 2 C. boiling water & C. citron Meringues 

2 egg whites 1 t. vanilla 

Dissolve sugar in water. Boil without stirring 
until syrup will drop from a spoon in a thread. 
Pour slowly on to stiffly beaten egg whites and 
continue beating until thick and creamy. Add 
nuts, chopped citron, and vanilla. Drop from a 
teaspoon on a buttered tin and brown lightly in a 
moderate oven. 



3 eggs V2 T. cinnamon Citron Peel 

1% C. confectioner's sugar % lb. citron Cakes 
2 C. flour 1 C. chopped pecans 

Beat eggs, add sugar, flour sifted with cinna- 
mon, finely cut citron, and pecans. Drop from a 
teaspoon on a buttered baking sheet and bake. 

Mrs. E. J. Hodges. 



V 2 C. marshmallows V2 t. candied orange peel Fruit Top 

V 2 C. chopped pecans x k C. white grapes Saltines 

^4 C. maraschino cherries Saltines 

Whipped cream 

Combine cut marshmallows, pecans, chopped 
maraschino cherries, shredded orange peel, and 
sliced white grapes. Pile by spoonfuls on saltines 
and top with a teaspoon of whipped cream. 

Adelma S. Knowlen. 

131 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Filled 2 C. flour 1 C. milk 

Cookies % t. salt 24 sugared dates 

4 t. baking powder 24 marshmallows 

1 t. sugar % C. grated pecans 

2 t. butter 1 egg yolk 

Sift the first 4 ingredients together, cut in the 
butter, and add milk. Roll out thin, and cut out 
with a small round cutter. On each round place 
a sugared date, which has been stuffed with a 
marshmallow, and sprinkle with pecans. Turn 
half the dough over it. Pinch the edges and brush 
with egg yolk. Bake until brown. 

Odessa Williamson. 



Fruit Drops V2 C. butter 1V 2 C. flour 

% C. sugar V2 t. cinnamon 

IV2 eggs V± t. orange extract 

V2 t. soda % C. currants 

V2 T. hot water % C. raisins 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Cream butter and sugar. Add well beaten eggs, 
soda dissolved in hot water, mixed and sifted dry 
ingredients, fruit flavoring and pecans. Drop 
from a teaspoon on a buttered baking sheet, and 
bake. 

Agnes M. Fink. 



Date Rocks V2 C. sugar V2 T. hot water 

Vs C. shortening ^4 t. ground cloves 

V2 t. salt *4 t. cinnamon 

1 egg % C. flour 

V2 t. soda 25 dates 

2 C. chopped pecans 

Combine sugar, shortening, salt, and egg yolk. 
Add soda dissolved in hot water, spices, flour, 
chopped dates, pecans, and stiffly beaten egg 
white. Drop from spoon on a greased pan and 
bake. 

Mrs. Nellie B. Campbell. 

132 



Pecan Cakes 



1 C. sugar 1 t. powdered cinnamon Clerk 
3 eggs % t. ground cloves Bread 

2 sq. of chocolate 1 C. flour 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Cream together sugar and egg yolks. Add 
melted chocolate, mixed and sifted dry ingre- 
dients, pecans, and stiffly beaten egg whites. 
Spread % inch thick on a shallow tin and bake. 
While still warm, cut in oblong pieces 2i/ 2 inches 
long and % inch wide. 

Mrs. Ant. Khayat. 



2 eggs V2 C. flour Cocoanut 

1 C. sugar % t. salt Brownies 

% C. cocoa 1 box shredded cocoanut 

y 2 C. butter 1 t. vanilla 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Cream eggs and sugar. Melt the cocoa and 
butter and add to the eggs and sugar. Add the 
remaining ingredients. Bake in a shallow pan 
lined with oiled paper. When done, cut in bars. 

Gail R. Bell 



% C. sugar V2 t. cinnamon Fruit 

% C. butter 2 T. sour cream Spice Drops 

1 egg 1 C. rolled oats 

1 C. flour V2 C. raisins 

14 t. cloves 1% T. candied orange peel 

% t. soda IV2 T. candied citron peel 

14 t. salt IV2 T. candied lemon peel 

IV2 t. baking powder V2 C. pecans 

Cream sugar and butter and add beaten egg. 
Mix the dry ingredients, except the rolled oats, 
and sift. Add to first mixture alternately with 
cream. Add rolled oats and remaining ingredients 
and mix well. Drop from a teaspoon on a buttered 
baking dish and bake. 

Mrs. O. K. Farrell 



133 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Crullers 2 T. butter y 2 t. vanilla 

Vz C. sugar 2 C. flour 

1 egg iy 2 t. baking powder 

y 2 C. milk % C. chopped pecans 

Cream butter and sugar. Add slightly beaten 
egg, milk, vanilla, mixed and sifted dry ingre- 
dients, and pecans. Roll % inch thick and cut in 
strips 3 inches long and 1 inch wide and cook in 
deep fat. Roll in powdered sugar before serving. 

Mrs. C. J. Dexter. 



Date Bars 1 C. pecans 1 t. salt 

V2 C. dates 1 t. baking powder 

V2 C. raisins 1 t. cinnamon 

1 C. flour 2 eggs 

Combine pecans, dates, and raisins. Add mixed 
and sifted dry ingredients, mix well, and add 
beaten eggs. Spread y 2 inch thick in greased pans 
and bake slowly until firm and brown. While hot 
cut in bars 4 inches long and 1 inch wide, and 
roll in confectioner's sugar. 

Mrs. J. B. Butter. 



Honey % C. Crisco iy 2 C. flour 

Cookies % C. sugar 2 t. baking powder 

% C. honey y 2 t. salt 

Grated rind of y 2 lemon % C. chopped pecans 

V2 egg Sugar 

Cream Crisco and sugar, then beat in honey. 
Add lemon rind, well beaten egg, and mixed and 
sifted dry ingredients until of the consistency to 
knead. Knead the dough on a floured board, roll 
into a thin sheet, and cut into rounds. Place in a 
greased pan, brush over with slightly beaten egg 
white, sprinkle with chopped pecans, dredge with 
sugar. Bake till golden brown. 

Ivese L. Madison. 



134 



Pecan Cakes 



y 2 C. butter Vs t. baking powder Fruit Jumbles 

IV2 G. brown sugar V2 t. nutmeg 

2 eggs V2 t. cinnamon 

2 T. milk 1 C. raisins 

3 C. pastry flour 15 dates chopped 

1 t. soda Grated lemon peel 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Cream butter and sugar. Add lightly beaten 
eggs, milk, mixed and sifted dry ingredients, fruit, 
and nuts. Drop from a teaspoon on a buttered 
baking sheet, and bake. 

Mrs. Jas. L. Sullivan. 



V 2 C. butter % T. hot water Frozen 

14 C. sugar 2 C. flour Cookies 

% C. brown sugar ^4 t. salt 

1 egg V2 t. cinnamon 

V& t. soda x /4 t. nutmeg 

% C. chopped pecans 

Melt butter, add sugar, egg, soda dissolved in 
hot water, mixed and sifted dry ingredients, and 
pecans. Mold into a roll about 3 inches in diam- 
eter. Place in ice box two hours, then slice very 
thin and bake until brown. 

Elizabeth M. Townsend. 



2 sq. chocolate 1 t. vanilla Iced 

1 C. sugar V2 t. salt Chocolate 

% C. butter % C. flour Fingers 

1 egg % C. raisins 

V 2 C. chopped pecans 

Melt the chocolate over hot water and add 
sugar, melted butter, slightly beaten egg, vanilla, 
salt, flour, raisins and pecans. Spread about % 
inch thick on a greased pan and bake in a slow 
oven. When done, spread with chocolate icing 
and cut in strips. 

Mrs. I. M. Aiken. 



135 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Fruit 

Macaroons 



Doughnuts 



Japanese 
Chews 



2 egg whites 
V2 C. sugar 



1 C. chopped pecans 
V2 C. raisins 



% C. chopped candied cherries 

Beat egg whites until stiff. Add remaining 
ingredients, drop from a teaspoon on a greased 
pan and bake in a slow oven 1 hour. 

Mrs. H. A. Raybourne. 



V2 C. sugar y 2 t. mace 
2V2 C. flour 2 eggs 

2 t. baking powder 1 C. milk 

2 t. cornstarch 2 T. butter 

1 t. salt 14 C. broken pecans 

Mix and sift first 6 ingredients twice. Add well 
beaten eggs, milk, melted butter, and pecans. 
Roll on board, cut out, cook in deep fat, and drain 
on brown paper. 

Edith C. Lane. 



% C. flour 
1 t. baking powder 
% t. salt 



1 C. sugar 
1 C. chopped pecans 
1 C. chopped dates 
2 eggs 



Mix dry ingredients and add well beaten eggs. 
Spread on buttered tin as thin as possible and 
bake % hour. While warm, cut in squares, roll in 
balls, and then roll in granulated sugar. 

Mrs. Edith M. Dowell. 



Honey 3 egg whites % t. cinnamon 

Macaroons V2 C. sugar 1 grated lemon rind 

6 T. honey 2V 2 C. chopped pecans 

Beat egg whites until stiff. Gradually add 
sugar, honey, cinnamon, lemon rind, and chopped 
pecans. Toss on board dredged with C. of 
sugar and % C. flour, roll out, cut with a star 
cutter and bake in a moderate oven. 

Mary E. Rippman. 

136 



Pecan Cakes 



% C. butter V2 t. soda Hermits 

V 2 C. sugar V2 T. hot water 

1 egg 15 dates 

1 C. flour % lb. citron 
% t. cinnamon 1 C. chopped pecans 

Cream butter and sugar. Add well beaten egg, 
flour, cinnamon, soda dissolved in hot water, 
floured and chopped fruit, and pecans. Drop from 
a teaspoon on a buttered baking sheet and bake. 

Mrs. L. G. Riddell. 



1 egg V2 t. soda Honey Fans 

V2 C. sugar 2 C. flour 

1 C. honey % C. chopped pecans 

Beat the egg and mix well with the sugar and 
honey. Add soda, flour, and pecans. Mold in 
shape of fans, put in small greased pans, score 
with fork, and decorate with halved pecans. Let 
stand in warm place 3 hours. Bake in slow oven 
until brown. 

Mrs. M. L. Lott. 



V2 C. sugar % C. sour milk Raisin 

% C. butter 1 C. flour Drop Cakes 

1 egg V2 t. cinnamon 

% C, cocoanut % t. nutmeg 

1 C. uncooked oatmeal V2 t. baking powder 

% t. soda V2 C. ground raisins 

% C. chopped pecans 

Cream the butter and sugar. Add well beaten 
egg, cocoanut, and oatmeal. Mix and sift the dry 
ingredients and add alternately to the first mix- 
ture with the soda dissolved in the sour milk. 
Add the raisins and nuts and drop from a tea- 
spoon on a buttered baking sheet and bake. 

Mrs. Howard Roberts. 



137 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



1 C. strained honey 
1 C. sugar 
1 C. butter 
1 egg 



1 C. chopped pecans 

2 t. baking powder 
1 T. ginger 



iy 2 C. flour 



Combine honey, sugar, butter, and beaten egg. 
Add pecans and mixed and sifted dry ingredients. 
Drop from a teaspoon on a greased baking sheet 



Separate eggs and beat whites until stiff and 
add pecans. Beat together egg yolks and pow- 
dered sugar, add lemon rind and flour, and mix 
well. Beat into this the pecan whip. Drop from 
a teaspoon on a greased paper and bake in a 
moderate oven. E. Porter. 



2 egg whites 1 t. salt 

1 C. powdered sugar 2 C. chopped and grated 

1 T. flour pecans 

Beat egg whites until stiff. Add remaining 
ingredients and drop from a teaspoon on a but- 
tered baking sheet. Allow for spreading. Bake 
in a slow oven. Lucile M. Agard. 

y 3 C. butter 1% C. flour 
% C. sugar 3 t. baking powder 

2 eggs % t. salt 

% C. orange juice x k C. milk 

% t. grated orange rind % C. chopped pecans 

Cream butter and sugar. Add well beaten egg 
yolks, orange juice, and rind. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients and add alternately with milk to the 
first mixture. Add chopped nuts, stiffly beaten 
egg whites, and pour into greased and floured cup 
cake pans. Bake in a moderate oven 20 min. Ice 
with orange frosting. 



and bake. 



Mrs. Herbert Brown. 



3 eggs 

1 C. grated pecans 



1 C. powdered sugar 
Grated rind of 1 lemon 
V 2 C. flour 



Margie Thompson. 



138 



Pecan Cakes 



V2 C. butter 1 C. uncooked oatmeal Oatmeal 

V2 C. sugar y 2 t. soda Patties 

1 egg iy 2 t. cinnamon 

1 C. flour y 2 C. raisins 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Cream butter and sugar. Add well beaten egg, 
and remainder of ingredients. Make in little 
patties and bake in a slow oven. 

Mrs. E. T. Boynton. 



2 C. grated pecans 2 C. powdered sugar Spice Cookies 

1 egg white y 2 oz. cinnamon 

Chopped pecans 

Combine grated pecans, egg white, sugar, and 
cinnamon and mix thoroughly. Roll out and cut 
with a cookie cutter. Bake slowly on a pan lined 
with wax paper. When baked, cover with frost- 
ing and sprinkle with chopped pecans. 

Mrs. T. L. Dunlap. 



IV2 eggs 1 t. cinnamon Pepper Nuts 

1 C. brown sugar % t. salt 

1 C. flour y 2 t. cloves 

% t. baking powder 1% C. raisins 

a /4 t. soda 2 T. citron peel chopped 

y 2 C. pecans 

Beat egg whites and yolks separately. Com- 
bine, and add sugar, mixed and sifted dry ingredi- 
ents, raisins, citron, and pecans. Drop from a 
teaspoon on a buttered baking sheet and bake. 

Mrs. H. Velander. 



1 C. sugar 1 C. grated pecans Toast Cookies 

1 C. grated toast 1 egg 

Combine sugar, pecans, and toast. Add beaten 
egg, and mix thoroughly. Shape into cookies, 
place on waxed paper on a baking sheet and bake 
until brown. 

Mrs. George Raterink. 

139 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Marguerites 



Pineapple 
Marguerites 



Patrician 
Cakes 



1 C. sugar 3 T. shredded cocoanut 
% C. water V2 C. chopped pecans 

6 marshmallows % t. vanilla 

2 egg whites Saltines 

Boil sugar and water together until it spins a 
thread. Add the marshmallows cut in small 
pieces. Pour onto the beaten egg whites and con- 
tinue beating. Add cocoanut, nuts, and flavoring, 
and spread the mixture on saltines. Bake in a 
moderate oven until brown. 

Josephine Stambaugh. 



4 T. orange juice 1 C. chopped pecans 

1 C. sugar V2 C. cocoanut 

14 marshmallows V2 C. candied pineapple 

2 egg whites Saltines 

Cook the orange juice and sugar to the soft 
ball stage. Add finely cut marshmallows. When 
melted, add the well beaten egg whites, pecans, 
cocoanut and pineapple. Spread on saltines and 
bake until straw-colored. 

Mrs. Catherine Tarnutzer. 



2 C. brown sugar 

3 T. butter 
2 eggs 

1 C. flour 



1 t. baking powder 
1 t. vanilla 
1 t. lemon extract 
1 t. orange extract 



2 C. chopped pecans 



Cream sugar and butter. Add well beaten eggs, 
mixed and sifted dry ingredients, flavoring and 
pecans. Drop from teaspoon on buttered baking 
sheet and bake. Mrs. H. W. Merrill. 



Pumpernickle % C. shortening 

1 C. sugar 
1 egg 
2y 3 C. flour 



IV2 t. baking powder 
V2 t. salt 

1 C. chopped pecans 
1 C. milk 
1 t. vanilla 



Cream shortening and sugar and add well 
beaten eggs. Mix and sift dry ingredients, add 

140 



Pecan Cakes 



nuts and add alternately with milk to the first 
mixture. Add vanilla and bake. When cold, cut 
in slices i/2 inch thick and toast in the oven until 
slightly browned. Mrs. R. B. Stephenson. 

% C. sugar 1 C. flour Oatmeal 

% C. shortening Vz t. cinnamon Delights 

V2 C. sour cream % t. cloves 

y 2 t. soda V2 t. salt 

V2 egg x k C. raisins 

1 C. rolled oats % C. chopped pecans 

Cream sugar and melted shortening. Add soda 
dissolved in sour cream, well beaten egg, rolled 
oats, sifted flour and spices, pecans, and raisins. 
Drop from a teaspoon on a buttered baking sheet 
and bake. Mrs. A. Dresser, Jr. 

V 2 C. shortening V2 C. chopped dates Oatmeal 

V2 C. sugar V2 t. cinnamon Date Cakes 

1 egg V2 t. salt 

% C. sour milk 1 C. uncooked oatmeal 

1 t. soda V 2 t. vanilla 

1 C. flour V2 C. chopped pecans 

Cream sugar and shortening. Add well beaten 
egg, soda dissolved in sour milk, and the remain- 
ing ingredients. Drop by spoonfuls on greased 
baking sheet, allowing for spreading. Bake in a 
moderate oven 15 to 20 minutes. 

Mrs. J. W. Brown. 



IV2 C. brown sugar 1 t. cinnamon Spice Rocks 

% C. shortening 1 t. soda 

3 eggs 1 T. hot water 

2 C. flour 1 C. raisins or dates 

% t. salt 1 C. pecans 

Cream sugar and shortening. Add well beaten 
eggs, mixed and sifted dry ingredients, soda dis- 
solved in hot water, fruit, and pecans. Drop 
from a teaspoon on a buttered baking sheet and 
bake. Mrs. Louis Hilden. 



141 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Raisin Rocks 



Raspberry 
Marguerites 



Scotch Five 
O'Clocks 



Scottish 
Fancies 



V2 C. shortening 

1 C. brown sugar 

2 eggs 

3 C. flour 

1 t. baking powder 
1 t. cinnamon 



i/i t. nutmeg 
1 C. buttermilk 
1 t. soda 

V2 t. vanilla 

V2 C. raisins 

% C. chopped pecans 



Cream sugar and shortening. Add well beaten 
eggs, mixed and sifted dry ingredients, soda dis- 
solved in buttermilk, vanilla, raisins, and pecans. 
Drop from a teaspoon on a buttered baking sheet 
and bake. Mrs. E. Frylsman. 



1 egg white 
2V2 T. powdered sugar 
1 t. lemon juice 



1 C. chopped pecans 

2 T. raspberry jam 
Saltines 



Beat egg white until stiff and dry. Add pow- 
dered sugar, lemon juice, pecans, and raspberry 
jam. Pile by spoonfuls on saltines and bake 10 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Harry T. Fox. 



V2 C. shortening 
V2 C. sugar 
1 egg 

V2 C. uncooked oatmeal 
V2 C. uncooked bran 
1 C. flour 
V2 t. salt 



V2 t. cinnamon 

i/i t. cloves 

% C. sour milk 

V2 t. soda 

V2 t. vanilla 

V2 C. raisins, figs, or 
currants 



V2 C. chopped pecans 

Cream shortening and sugar. Add beaten egg, 
dry ingredients, soda dissolved in sour milk, 
vanilla, fruit, and pecans. Drop from a teaspoon 
on a buttered baking sheet and bake. 

Mary L. Sauerbier. 



l egg 

V2 C. sugar 

% T. melted butter 



% t. salt 
% 



C. chopped pecans 
C. rolled oats 



i/4 t. vanilla 



Beat egg until light, add sugar gradually, then 
stir in remaining ingredients. Drop from a tea- 

142 



Pecan Cakes 



spoon 1 inch apart on a greased baking sheet. 
Spread into circular shape with a knife first 
dipped in cold water. Bake in a moderate oven 
until brown. Mrs. George F. Jammer. 



% C. sugar 
% C. Crisco 

2 T. Karo syrup 
V2 t. soda 

1 T. hot water 



IV2 eggs 
V2 C. raisins 
V2 C. pecans 

1% C. flour 
V2 t. allspice 
V2 t. cinnamon 



Spice Drops 



Cream sugar and Crisco. Add syrup, soda dis- 
solved in hot water, well beaten eggs, and raisins 
and nuts mixed with flour and spices. Drop from 
a teaspoon on a greased baking sheet and bake. 

Mrs. H. W. Voigt. 



4 T. butter 1 t. cream of tartar Sour Milk 

1 C. sugar % t. nutmeg Doughnuts 

1 egg y 2 t. salt 

3 C. flour 1 C. sour milk 

1 t. soda 1 C. grated pecans 

Cream butter and sugar and add well beaten 
egg. Mix and sift dry ingredients 3 times and 
add alternately with the milk to the first mixture. 
Add pecans and mix well. Roll, cut out, and let 
stand 2 hours, and cook in deep fat. 

Mrs. Wm. M. Jones. 



% C. butter 1 C. flour Tea Cakes 

V2 C. sugar 1 t. baking powder 

1 egg % t. salt 

% t. almond extract 2 T. water 

% t. rose extract V 2 C. chopped pecans 

Cream the butter and sugar, add well beaten 
egg and flavoring and beat well. Add mixed and 
sifted dry ingredients alternately with the water, 
and pecans. Drop from a teaspoon on a buttered 
tin and bake. d t . L. B. Miller. 



143 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Shirley % C. butter 1 C. flour 

Bran Drops % C. brown sugar 2 t. baking powder 

1 egg x /4 t. salt 

2 T. milk % t. cinnamon 

% C. bran V2 t. lemon extract 

% C. chopped pecans 

Cream butter and sugar, and add the well 
beaten egg. Add milk, bran, and remaining dry 
ingredients mixed and sifted together, flavoring, 
and pecans. Drop by spoonfuls on a greased 
baking sheet, and bake. 



Southern 
Lizzies 



V2 C. brown sugar 
14 C. butter 
1 egg 
IV2 C. flour 
V2 t. soda 



y 2 t. cinnamon 
% C. chopped pecans 
V2 C. raisins 
1 T. citron peel 
2V 2 t. orange juice 
Pecan halves 



Cream sugar and butter. Add well beaten egg, 
mixed and sifted dry ingredients, pecans, fruit, 
and orange juice. Drop from a teaspoon on a 
buttered baking sheet, press half a pecan on top, 
and bake. 

Kathryn Prince. 



Yum-Yums 



V 2 t. salt 



% C. butter 



1 C. chopped dates 
1 C. chopped pecans 
V2 t. vanilla 



1 egg 
1 C. sugar 
1/2 C. milk 

1 C. flour 

2 t. baking powder 

Cream together the sugar and egg. Add milk, 

mixed and sifted dry ingredients, melted butter, 

dates, pecans, and vanilla. Spread in greased 

pan to 14 inch in thickness. Bake in a moderate 

oven 20 minutes. Turn out, cut in squares, and 

roll in powdered sugar. 

Mrs. Florence M. Potter. 

144 



CHAPTER VII 



PECAN CANDIES 

FUDGE 

FONDANT 

CARAMELS 

CREAMS 

PRALINES 

SALTED NUTS 

HARD CANDIES 



"Sweets 
to the Sweet" 



CHAPTER VII 



Pecan Candies 

The use of pecans in candies is no new discovery 
— although among the recipes which follow you 
may find nine out of ten with which you were 
previously unacquainted. 

Just as the pecan is the native American nut — 
America's finest contribution to the world's nat- 
ural food products — so the Pecan Praline is the 
native American candy, with a history as remark- 
able as this confection is delectable. Nearly two 
centuries ago the praline was famous around New 
Orleans; in a history of Louisiana written by Le 
Page du Pratz, a French explorer, and published in 
1758, the great value of the pecan to the French 
colonists is discussed and the praline (then made 
from wild pecan kernels) is most highly praised. 

Pralines, and other pecan candies originating in 
the Southland, have been most widely made and 
used in all sections of America and are making 
themselves known abroad wherever a supply of 
pecan nuts is available. For the pecan among all 
nuts is the one best fitted to use in the summer 
time. The addition of pecans to candies makes of 
candies a real food, better balanced and more 
healthful, in addition to imparting a delicious 
flavor. 

147 



Pecan candies can readily be made in the home, 
and being of known pure materials are more 
dependable. The fruit flavors are especially rec- 
ommended for children. 

In boiling sugar for confectionery, fourteen 
degrees of density are used by the professional 
candy maker. 



148 



Pecan Candies 



2 T. gelatine 1 C. sugar Apn cot 

y 3 C. fold water % C. water . Gum Drops 

Grated rind and juice 1 C. dried apricots 

of 1 orange 1 C. chopped pecans 

Juice of 1 lemon Powdered sugar 

Dissolve gelatine in cold water. Add grated 
rind and juice of orange, juice of lemon, sugar 
and water, and boil 10 minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Add chopped apricots and boil 10 min- 
utes more. Add pecans, pour in buttered pans, 
cut in squares, and roll in powdered sugar. 

Mrs. W. H. Smith. 



m C sugar 1% T. butter Butterscotch 

\ C! corn syrup t. salt Marshmallows 

% C. water % t. vanilla 

1 T. molasses 2 boxes marshmallows 

Pecan halves 

Mix sugar, corn syrup and water and stir until 
dissolved. Boil until brittle when tried m cold 
water. Add molasses and butter. Cook until it 
cracks in cold water, stirring to prevent burning. 
Remove from fire, add salt and vanilla. Dip 
marshmallows into mixture and press a pecan 
half on each one. 

Mrs. V. H. Marshall, Jr. 



1 C. brown sugar 1 C. white syrup gS£K 

3 T. cocoa 2 T. butter Caramels 

1 C. milk 1 t. vanilla 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Mix sugar and cocoa, dissolve in milk, add 
syrup and cook to hard ball stage. Remove from 
fire, add butter, vanilla, and pecans. Pour m 
buttered tin to depth of one inch and cut into 
cubes. Blanche Norman. 

149 



800 Proved Pecan Eecipes 



Brittle 2 lbs. granulated sugar 1 T. lemon juice 

1 C. water 2 C. pecan halves 

Boil sugar and water to brittle point. Add 
lemon juice. Spread pecan halves on buttered 
shallow tin and pour syrup over them. Let cool 
and mark off in strips. 



Caramel 2 C. brown sugar % t. salt 

Marshmallows 1 small can condensed milk V 2 t. vanilla 

1 T. syrup Marshmallows 

Grated pecans 

Boil sugar, milk and syrup until syrup reaches 
the hard ball stage. Add salt and vanilla. Dip 
marshmallows in mixture and roll in grated 

peCanS ' Mrs. B. W. LaHeist. 



Cherry Bars 1 T. water 1% C. confectioner's sugar 

1 t. vanilla 1 C. grated pecans 

1 egg white 1 C. maraschino cherries 

Add water and vanilla to unbeaten egg white. 
Work sugar into this gradually until it forms a 
stiff paste. Add pecans and cherries cut in small 
pieces. Knead, and roll out to % inch in thick- 
ness and cut in bars. ^ , 7 — m 

Ruth E. Tait. 



Butterscotch 1% C. sugar V 2 T. molasses 

Wafers Vs C. Karo % t. salt 

V2 C. water % t. lemon extract 

IV2 T. butter Pecan halves 

Put sugar, syrup and water in saucepan and 
stir until dissolved. Boil until it becomes brittle 
in cold water. Add butter and molasses and cook 

150 



Pecan Candies 



until it cracks in cold water. Stir during second 
cooking process to prevent burning. When crack 
stage is reached, remove from fire, add salt, and 
flavoring. Drop by small spoonfuls on well oiled 
tin and press a pecan half on each wafer. 

Mrs. Norma Hannes. 



% lb. chocolate % lb. marshmallows Chocolate 

1 C. pecan halves Marshmallows 

Butter a tin and spread small pieces of choco- 
late over the bottom. Heat until bottom is cov- 
ered. Put marshmallows and pecan halves over 
this. Heat until marshmallows begin to melt, 
pour remaining melted chocolate over this, and 
place pecans on top. Cool and cut in squares. 

Esther Ablin. 



IV2 C. sugar % C. chopped pecans Chocolate 

y 2 C. white syrup % t. vanilla or almond Covered 

y 2 C. cream extract *udge 

IV2 sq. unsweetened chocolate 

Boil sugar, syrup and cream until mixture 
forms a soft ball in cold water. Take from fire 
and beat until white and smooth. Beat in nuts 
and flavoring and pour into deep buttered tin. 
When cold, pour melted chocolate over it. Let 
stand until hard and cut in slices. 

Mrs. Charles Sternold. 



2 C. stoned dates 2 cakes snappy cheese g h eese _ , 

1 C. chopped pecans % C. brown sugar Stuffed Dates 

Mix pecans, cheese, and sugar, and use as a 
filling for the dates. 

Myrtle Minkler. 



151 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Cream 2 C. brown sugar 1 C. cream 

Penuche 1 C. white sugar 1 T. butter 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Cook first 4 ingredients until mixture forms a 
soft ball in cold water (238°). Remove from 
fire, add pecans, and beat well. Pour into a 
greased pan. 

Mrs. Mark Chapman. 



Chocolate %. C. butter 14 C. molasses 

Fudge 1 C. white sugar 2 sq. chocolate 

1 C. brown sugar iy 2 t. vanilla 

V2 C. cream 1 C. chopped pecans 

Melt butter in an aluminum kettle. Combine 
the sugar, cream and molasses. Add to the butter 
and boil 2i/ 2 minutes, stirring rapidly. Add 
chocolate and boil 5 minutes. Remove from fire, 
add vanilla and pecans. Stir until it thickens. 
Pour into buttered pans and set aside to cool. 

Myrtle Minkler. 



Chocolate % C. Karo syrup (red % t. vanilla 

Divinity label) 1 C. chopped pecans 

V2 C. water 1 small box cocoanut 

2 C. sugar 14 lb. candied cherries 

2 egg whites Bitter chocolate 

Cook syrup, water, and sugar until mixture 
reaches the crack stage. Pour syrup over stiffly 
beaten egg whites, flavor with vanilla, and beat 
until quite stiff. Add pecans, cocoanut, and cher- 
ries. When too stiff to beat longer, spread on 
buttered platter and pour melted chocolate over 
the top. When cold, cut in squares. 

Mrs. W. C. Fisher. 



152 



Pecan Candies 



2 C. white Karo 1 can condensed milk Caramels 

2 C. sugar 2 C. sweet milk 

Vz C. grated pecans 

Mix sugar, Karo, condensed milk, and % of 
sweet milk. Boil until it forms a soft ball in 
cold water. Add % of sweet milk again and boil 
to soft ball stage. Add remaining milk and boil 
until it comes to the same stage. Add pecans and 
pour in buttered pan. When cold, cut in blocks 
and wrap. 

Mrs. E. P. Stickney. 



2 C. white sugar 2 T. butter Chocolate 

1 C. brown sugar 1 t. vanilla Marshmallow 

1 C. milk 1 C. chopped pecans Fudge 

lb. chocolate X A lb. marshmallows 

Boil sugar, milk and chocolate until it forms a 
soft ball in cold water. Remove from fire and 
add butter and vanilla. Beat until stiff enough 
to spread, and add nuts. Cut marshmallows into 
quarters, place in a greased pan and pour fudge 
mixture over them. 

Mrs. E. P. Stickney. 



2 C. sugar 6 T. butter Cream 

y 3 C. white syrup 1% C. cream Caramels 

C. chopped pecans 

Mix sugar, syrup, butter, and half of the cream 
together thoroughly. Cook 5 minutes. Add 
remaining cream and cook to 240° F. Pour into 
buttered tin and let stand 24 hours. 

Rachel Lehman. 



153 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Cocoa Fudge 2 C. sugar 1 C. milk 

2 T. cocoa 1 T. butter 

2 T. white Karo V2 t. vanilla 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Boil sugar, cocoa, Karo and milk until it forms 
a soft ball in cold water (232° F.). Boil covered 
for first few minutes to allow steam to wash sugar 
crystals from the side of pan. Then uncover and 
stir while candy finishes boiling. Remove from 
fire, add butter, vanilla and pecans. Place pan 
in cold water, and beat until candy becomes 
creamy. Drop from a teaspoon on waxed paper 
or pour in tins and mark in squares when cool. 

Mrs. H. Hickerson. 



Fondant 
Covered 
Pecans 



y 2 t. vanilla 



1 C. confectioner's sugar 

2 T. boiling water Colorings 

Pecan halves 

Combine sugar with water, add vanilla, and use 
as many different colors as you prefer. Dip 
pecans in fondant. These may be used as a con- 
fection or to decorate cakes and salads. 

Mrs. David E. Wucherer. 



Fruit Paste V2 C. dates Grated rind of Y2 orange 

V 2 C. figs Orange juice 

V 2 C. seeded raisins Confectioner's sugar 

V2 C. grated pecans Granulated sugar 

Put fruits through food chopper, add pecans, 
orange rind, and orange juice if needed to soften 
mixture. Press out to one inch in thickness on a 
board and sprinkle with confectioner's sugar. Cut 
in squares, roll in granulated sugar and set aside 
to dry. 

Benlah Kicks. 



154 



Pecan Candies 



1 C. dates y 2 C. shredded cocoanut Date Balls 

1 C. grated pecans Syrup 

Put dates through food chopper, add pecans, 
and cocoanut, moisten with syrup, and mold into 
balls. 

Mrs. Chalmer Potts. 



2 C. sugar 2 C. stoned dates Date Loaf 

1 C. milk 2 C. chopped pecans 

Cook sugar and milk until it forms a soft ball 
in cold water. Remove from fire, add dates, and 
mash with a potato masher. Add pecans. Pour 
on a damp cloth, fold cloth over, and shape into a 
loaf. When cold, slice. 

Mrs. F. G. Beeler. 



Fondant (Standard) Marshmallows Fondant 

Grated pecans Marshmallows 

Melt fondant in a double boiler until it flows. 
Drop marshmallows into fondant, then drop the 
fondant covered marshmallows into the grated 
pecans. 

A. Philipp. 



2 T. butter 2 C. pecan halves Devilled 

4 t. salt Paprika Pecans 

Melt butter, add salt, and stir until dissolved. 
Add pecans and shake until well covered. Bake 
in a moderate oven for 10 minutes. Remove 
from oven, sprinkle with paprika, and pour out 
on brown paper. 

Mrs. G. A. Jones. 



155 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Fruit Balls % lb. raisins V2 lb. dates 

1/2 lb. figs 2 C. chopped pecans 

Powdered sugar 

Put fruits through food chopper, add pecans, 
and roll into small balls. Just before serving dip 
in powdered sugar. 

Hildegard Thornberg. 



Maple Kisses 2 C. maple syrup % C. cream 

I T. white syrup 1 C. pecans 

Mix syrups and cream. Cook slowly, without 
stirring, to soft ball stage. Remove from fire, 
set saucepan in pan of cold water and beat steadily 
until the mass adheres to a spoon in a lump. Turn 
out on board dusted with powdered sugar and 
knead with hands, working in finely chopped 
pecans all the while. Shape into small balls, and 
press a pecan half on each. 

Lois Lush. 



French 

Fondant 

Drops 



2 C. sugar 

2 T. corn syrup 



l 1 ^ C. water 

Confectioner's chocolate 

Pecan halves 



Place sugar, syrup and water over a slow fire 
and stir constantly until sugar is dissolved. Bring 
quickly to the boiling point. Place cover on the 
pan and boil vigorously for one minute. Remove 
cover and continue boiling without stirring, wash- 
ing down the sugar from inside of pan with a 
cloth, until it forms a soft ball in water, or 238° F. 
Pour the fondant on a platter that has been rinsed 
in cold water but not dried. When cooled to 100°, 
manipulate it with a spatula until white and 
creamy. Knead to a ball and put in a stone jar 

156 



Pecan Candies 



with a damp cloth under the cover. When ready 
to dip, form into balls, dip in confectioner's choco- 
late and place a pecan half on top of each one. 

Ruth Foreman. 



2 C. sugar 1 egg white Fruit 

y 2 C. corn syrup % C. chopped pecans Nougatmes 

1/2 T. water % C. chopped raisins 

14 C. crystallized cherries 

Cook sugar, syrup and water to 240° F. Cool 
slightly, pour mixture slowly over stiffly beaten 
egg white, stirring constantly. Add nuts, raisins, 
and cherries, and turn into oiled pan. When cold, 
cut into strips or squares. 

Mary E. Rippman. 



2 C . sugar 2 squares chocolate Fudge 

y 2 C milk 1 t- vanilla 

%■ C. Karo syrup 2 T. butter 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Cook sugar, milk, syrup and chocolate, until 
mixture forms a soft ball in cold water. Remove 
from fire, and add vanilla, butter, and pecans. 
Beat until creamy and pour in buttered pans. 

Mrs. Christ Cappas. 



2 C. sugar % t. cream of tartar Fruit Fudge 

IV2 C. cream % T. vanilla 

% C. syrup Vs C. chopped pecans 

2 T. candied cherries 

Mix sugar, cream and syrup and cook until it 
forms a soft ball in water. Add cream of tartar, 
vanilla, pecans and cherries. Beat until mixture 
is creamy and thick. Pour into well buttered pan. 

Madalene M. Worden. 

157 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Glace Dates 2 C. sugar Dates 

V2 C. water Pecan halves 

Juice of % lemon Cloves 

Remove pits from dates and insert a pecan half 
and a clove in each one. Boil sugar and water to 
brittle stage, remove from fire, place pan in a pan 
of hot water, and add lemon juice. Dip dates in 
hot syrup. Place on waxed paper. 

Mrs. Birch MacTuddy. 



Neapolitan Use "Cocoa Fudge" recipe, page 154, and any 
Fudge standard "French Fondant" recipe. 

When fudge is beaten until creamy, turn on 
platter that has been wet with cold water, and 
knead until soft. Press half of fudge into a 
square or oblong pan, cover with layer of fondant 
that has been tinted a delicate pink. Place 
remainder of fudge on top and press all together 
firmly. Let stand in mold short time, turn out 
on waxed paper, and cut in squares. 

Mrs. H. Hickerson. 



Honey 3 T. strained honey 1 C. brown sugar 

Squares 1 C. sugar y 2 C. cream 

2 T. hot water % t. vanilla 

Pecan halves 

Mix all except nuts in a saucepan and stir 
until sugar dissolves. Cook without stirring to 
hard ball stage. Remove from fire, add vanilla, 
pour into buttered tin and while warm mark into 
squares and press a pecan half on each square. 

Evelyn French. 

158 



Pecan Candies 



2 C. sugar Vs t. cream of tartar Glace Pecans 

1 C. boiling water Cold water 

Put sugar, boiling water, and cream of tartar 

in a saucepan, stir, place on fire, and bring to the 

boiling point. Boil without stirring until syrup 

begins to discolor. Wash off sugar adhering to 

side of pan. To do this, have a pan of cold water 

near at hand. Dip hand in cold water, then 

quickly wash off a small part of the sugar with 

tips of fingers. Repeat until all sugar on the side 

of the saucepan is removed. Remove saucepan 

from fire and place in a pan of cold water to stop 

the boiling instantly. Remove from cold water 

and place in a saucepan containing boiling water, 

where it should remain during dipping. Take 

nuts separately on a long pin, dip in syrup and 

place on waxed paper. If the syrup becomes too 

thick, place on fire, bring to the boiling point, and 

remove at once. . , f 

Alma H or ton. 



2 egg whites 1 C. sugar Kisses 

% C. chopped pecans 

Beat egg whites until stiff, and add sugar and 
pecans. Mold into small round balls and place on 
waxed paper. Dry out for 15 minutes in medium 

oven - Erma S. McMahan. 



% lb. dates % lb. dried peaches Parisian 

1 lb. raisins 2 C. grated pecans Sweets 

% lb. dried apricots Powdered sugar 

Put fruit through food chopper, add pecans, 
form into balls, and roll in powdered sugar. 

Eva Fay Emrick. 

159 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Maple 2 C. maple syrup *4 t. salt 

Creams 1 C. chopped pecans 

Boil maple syrup until it forms a soft ball in 
cold water (238°). Remove from fire, pour into 
a cold bowl, add salt, and beat until it creams. 
Add pecans, and drop from a teaspoon on oiled 
paper. 

Mrs. Anna Selkirk Norton. 



Log Cabin 1 C. brown sugar 1 C. cream 

Roll V 2 C. sugar 3 T. butter 

% C. maple syrup Corn syrup 

Chopped pecans 

Cover and cook the sugar, syrup, cream and 
butter for 5 minutes. Uncover and cook to soft 
ball stage. Cool for 15 minutes, then beat and 
roll in logs 1 inch thick and 3 inches long. Roll 
logs in corn syrup and then in pecans. 

Mrs. W. J. Miller. 



Orange % rind of 1 orange 1 C. cream 

Pralines Hot water 1 t. butter 

2Vz C. brown sugar Juice of 1 orange 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Cut orange rind in small pieces, pour hot water 
over it, and let stand until ready for use. Cook 
sugar, cream and butter until it thickens, add 
orange juice and the prepared rind. Cook until 
it forms a soft ball in water. Remove from heat 
and beat until it creams. Add pecans. Drop from 
teaspoon on a buttered plate. 

Nettie Burkholder. 



160 



Pecan Candies 



y 2 C. strong coffee 2 C. brown sugar Maple 

1 C. chopped pecans Penuche 

Boil coffee and brown sugar until syrup spins 
a thread (216°). Remove pan to a dish of cold 
water and beat mixture rapidly until it creams. 
Add pecans, pour into a warm flat tin and cut in 
squares. 

A. McCalmont. 



2 T. thick cream Confectioner's sugar Mint Balls 

6 drops peppermint essence Pecan halves 

Mix cream and peppermint and add sugar to 
form a thick paste. Make into small balls and 
press a pecan half on top. 

Margaret E. Cannon. 



2 C. sugar Vs t. cream of tartar Glace 

1 C. boiling water Pecan halves E ec ?*V 

Glace strawberries Baskets 

Put sugar, water and cream of tartar in a 
smooth saucepan, stir, place on fire, and heat to 
boiling point. Wash off syrup which adheres to 
sides of saucepan with a brush dipped in cold 
water, and boil, without stirring, to 310° F. or 
until syrup begins to discolor. Remove saucepan 
at once from fire and place in a larger pan of 
cold water to instantly stop the boiling. Remove 
from cold water and place in a saucepan of hot 
water. Dip nuts in syrup and fasten two together 
for the bottom of the basket. Place others 
upright around the edge for the sides of the 
basket. As soon as candy can be handled, pull 
until glossy, and shape to form a handle. Dip 
the ends in melted syrup and attach them to the 
sides of the basket. Fill with glace strawberries. 

161 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Maple 
Pralines 



Mocha 
Brittle 



Peppermint 
Creams 



Pecan 
Clusters 



2 C. sugar 
1 C. maple syrup 



V 2 C. milk 



2 T. butter 
V± t. cream of tartar 
2 C. chopped pecans 
1 t. vanilla 

Boil sugar, maple syrup and milk together until 
it forms a soft ball in cold water. Add butter 
and cream of tartar. Beat until creamy, add 
pecans and vanilla. Drop by spoonfuls on marble 
table or waxed paper. 

Mrs. N. H. Roy land. 



1 C. strong coffee y 2 C. corn syrup 

2 C. sugar % c> butter 

V2 C. pecan halves 

Combine first four ingredients and boil until 
syrup cracks in cold water. Grease a shallow pan 
and lay pecan kernels on the bottom. Pour syrup 
over nuts. When almost cool, mark in small 

Squares ' Mrs. I. E. Nickerson. 



2 C. sugar 
V2 C. milk 



1 t. essence of peppermint 
1 C. chopped pecans 



Boil sugar and milk 5 minutes. Remove from 
fire, add peppermint, set pan in cold water and 
stir until syrup begins to cream. Pour over nuts 
previously placed in a buttered dish. Cut in 
squares. May be made into rounds or fancy 
shapes and pecan halves placed on top. 

Mrs. Fred Zollinger. 



y± t. salt 
1 C. water 
x k lb. butter 



2 C. broken pecans 
1 C. sugar 
y% C. Karo syrup 

Heat pecans in oven to about 100° F. Combine 
sugar, syrup, salt, and water and boil to 300° F. 
Remove from fire and add pecans. Stir in butter 
and spread mixture on a greased pan or a marble 
top table. Separate nuts. j± m Philipp. 

162 



Pecan Candies 



o r suffar 1 T. butter Marshmallow 

1/ r ™ilk % C. marshmallows Fudge 

U C. corn syrup 
2 sq. chocolate 1 t. vanilla 

Cook sugar, milk, syrup and chocolate until it 
forms a soft ball in cold water. Remove from 
fire, add butter, and let cool. Beat m mar shmal- 
lows cut in small pieces, pecans, and vanilla. Four 
in buttered pans and cut m squares. 

Winifred Black. 



1 lb. brown sugar 1 T. butter Taffy 

1 p wn w 1 t. vanilla 

% C. c?rn syrup 1 C. chopped pecans 

Combine sugar, water, corn syrup and buttew 
and cook until syrup forms a firm ball m cold 
water. Remove from fire, let stand 5 minutes, 
and stir in vanilla and pecans Drop from tab e- 
spoon on wax paper or marble slab. When cold, 
wrap in wax paper. 

Mavis Kendrick. 



1 C. confectioner's sugar Pink coloring Rose Buds 

1 wh^P Green coloring 

1 foletavoring % C. pecan halves 

Add sugar gradually to egg white, stirring : con- 
stantly. Add flavoring and divide paste into t 
equalparts. Color first part pink and second 
Seen Force green portion through a pastry 
tube "forming leaves. On each of these place a 
Pecan half. Force pink portion through pastry 
tube to form rosebuds on the nuts. 

Elizabeth Thomas. 



163 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Pineapple 
Squares 



Pralines 



1 C. brown sugar 
1 C. white sugar 
% C. milk 



1 T. butter 

V2 C. grated pineapple 
V2 C. chopped pecans 



Boil sugar, milk and butter for a few minutes, 
add drained pineapple, and cook until it forms a 
soft ball in cold water. Beat until cool, add 
pecans, and continue beating until creamy. Pour 
in pan and cut in small squares. 

K. A. Miller. 



2 C. brown sugar 
% C. water 



fa C. butter 



2 C. chopped pecans 



Stir sugar, water, and butter together over a 
slow fire until the sugar is dissolved. Add pecans 
and boil until mixture forms a hard ball in cold 
water. Drop mixture on waxed paper, allowing 
it to spread out until about % inch in thickness 
and 4 inches in diameter. 

Flo Onida Williamson. 



Rolled 
Caramels 



Stuffed 
Dates 



2 C. sugar 1 C. butter 

% C. white corn syrup 1 pt. cream 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Mix sugar, corn syrup, butter and cream, and 
stir until it reaches the boiling point. Boil to a 
very firm ball stage and pour into a large, flat, 
buttered pan. Sprinkle with nuts and roll up. 
When cold, cut in % inch discs. 

Mrs. R. F. Kenyon. 



Dates 1 egg white 

Chopped pecans Sugar 

Stone dates and fill with pecans. Brush them 
with unbeaten egg white and roll in grated pecans 
mixed with sugar. 

Evelyn May Wadhams. 

164 



Pecan Candies 



2 T. butter 4 t. salt Salted 

2 C. pecan halves Pecans 1 

Melt butter, add salt, and stir until dissolved. 
Add pecans and shake until each half is well 
buttered. Place in a medium oven and bake 7 
minutes, or until a golden brown. Pour out on 
brown paper. 

Polly Cooper. 



1 egg white 1 t. salt Salted 

2 T. water 4 C. pecan halves Pecans II 

Add water to slightly beaten egg white. Add 
salt and stir until dissolved. Add pecans, shake 
until they are all well covered, and bake in a hot 
oven 11 minutes, stirring constantly. Pour out 

on brown paper. tt 

Mrs. Bertha S. Heady. 



2 T. butter 1 t. celery salt Salted 

2 C. pecan halves Pecans 111 

Melt butter, add pecans, and stir until they are 
covered. Brown in medium oven 7 minutes. 
Remove from oven, sift with celery salt, and pour 
out on brown paper. 

Mrs. R. D. Gillespie. 



2 C. brown sugar 1 C. water Seafoam 

1 t. cream of tartar 2 egg whites 

2 C. chopped pecans 

Stir sugar, cream of tartar, and water in sauce- 
pan until thoroughly dissolved. Boil until it 
forms a soft ball in cold water. Pour hot syrup 
over stiffly beaten egg whites and stand the bowl 
in ice water until the mixture begins to thicken. 
Add pecans and drop from a teaspoon on waxed 
paper. Mrs. Maude Lucas. 

165 



800 Proved Pecan Eecipes 



Penuche 



Stuffed 
Cherry 



Salted 
Pecan Men 



Wintergreen 
Creams 



2 C. brown sugar 
% C. milk 



1 T. butter 
% C. chopped pecans 
1 t. vanilla 



Boil sugar, milk and butter until mixture forms 
a soft ball in cold water (238°). Remove from 
fire and add nuts and vanilla. Beat until creamy, 
pour into greased tins, and cut in squares. 

Mrs. J. P. Wheat 



2 oz. sugar 
5 oz. grated pecans 

lemon 



Juice of V 2 



t. vanilla 
2 oz. confectioner's sugar 
% lb. glace cherries 

Rub sugar through a coarse sieve, add pecans, 
lemon juice, and vanilla. Form into small balls, 
and roll in sugar. Cut cherries in half and tuck 
a paste ball in each. May be rolled in sugar. 

Mrs. Nellie Skinner. 



Pecan halves 
Butter 



Salt m 

Raisins or candied cherries 



Salt the pecans by browning in butter. Spread 
on brown paper to drain off fat. Salt. Take 
toothpicks and make little men by sticking pecans 
on top for head, a large raisin in middle for body, 
with toothpicks for arms and legs, on the ends of 
which are added pecans for hands and feet. Can- 
died cherries may be used instead of raisins. 

Mrs. Caroline W. Trotter. 



2 T. thick cream Confectioner's sugar 

6 drops wintergreen Pecan halves 

extract Red vegetable coloring 

Mix cream and wintergreen and add sifted 
sugar to form a soft paste. Add coloring. Form 
into balls and press a pecan on each side or make 
into rounds and fancy shapes and place pecan 
half on each. ^ B ^ LaHeist. 

166 



CHAPTER VIII 



PECAN DESSERTS 

PUDDING 
CUSTARD 
ICE CREAM 
SHERBET 
SAUCES 




"The proof of the 
pudding is in the 
eating." 



PECAN AND 
CANTALOUPE 
SUNDAE 




PK 5 



CANTON 
PECAN 
SHERBET 




NEW ENGLAND 
PLUM PUDDING 
WITH 
PECANS 



PECAN 
MA RSHM ALLOW 
PARFAIT 




mm 



mm 




PECAN DESSERTS 



CHAPTER VIII 



Pecan Desserts 

Have you ever tasted pecan caramel ice cream? Desserts 

that are 

Have you ever made pecan refrigerator cake, or Different 
pecan Bavarian cream? If not, you have some 
pleasing surprises coming, for pecans fit into des- 
serts of all classes as few other natural products 
do. 

Strange, isn't it, how some women get the repu- Rightly 

fitted to 

tation for being superlative cooks as a result of the Meal 
using such desserts with judgment? Eealizing 
that the dessert is often the most remembered por- 
tion of the meal, they follow the meal with a 
dessert that is different from the average, yet 
appropriate in relation to the meal. Following a 
heavy meal, when people wonder, "Ought I really 
eat any dessert?" these thoughtful housewives 
serve a light, easily digested dessert, such as fruit, 
fruit ices or jellies, while they follow a light meal 
with heavy desserts, plum pudding or other heav- 
ier pudding or rich creams. 

169 



Frozen Pecan Desserts 
Freezing Freezing. Each type of freezer may vary 

Ice 

Cream greatly in its requirements as to the size of ice 

to be used and the proportion of salt. What is 
said here can therefore be only general in char- 
acter, and is to be considered in connection with 
the instructions regarding freezing which accom- 
panied your freezer when it was received from 
the maker, and with your own experience with 
your particular freezer. 

Obviously, the smaller you crack the ice, and the 
greater percentage of salt you use in the mixture 
the quicker your freezing results. But for storing 
ice cream and packing it to ripen, after you have 
removed the dasher, larger ice and less salt is 
required. It is only common sense also that if 
the freezing proceeds faster than the smoothing 
process (which results from the stirring up by 
the dasher, causing incorporation of air into the 
mixture) you will not get smooth, fine-textured ice 
cream, sherbet or water ice; therefore the mix- 
ture of one part salt to three parts of ice is gen- 
erally best, especially if you have chilled the 
ingredients in the refrigerator before putting 
them into the freezer. 

For frozen fruits, etc., where the mixture is 
coarser and the sugar content greater, one part of 

170 



salt to two of ice may be used in the freezing 
mixture, while for frappe and similar granular 
mixtures, equal quantities of ice and salt may be 
used in the freezing mixture. 

Remember that the finer the ice is cracked the Larger Ice, 
shorter its freezing usefulness. Therefore the ten- f 0 r Packing 
dency of the expert ice cream maker is to start 
packing very finely shaved ice around the lower 
portion of his freezer with ice cracked to the size 
of a chestnut above; and when the freezing is 
completed, and the dasher removed, all the water 
is drained off and larger ice packed around and 
above the freezer, with one part salt to four parts 
of ice. In this final packing process all air should 
be excluded (newspapers pressed down tightly on 
top of the ice above the freezer are excellent for 
the purpose) and the cream will continue to remain 
hard for two or three hours. 

CAUTION— Never fill your ice cream can more q 0 no t 
than three-fourths full, if you want satisfactory p^eMer 
results, even with water ices, where there is little to ° fu H 
or no gain in volume by the stirring (or paddling) 
during freezing. In the case of ice cream, where 
there is a very appreciable increase, fill your 
freezer little if any more than half full at the 
start. Chilling the ingredients in the refrigerator 
before freezing shortens the freezing time and 
assures better results. 

171 



What is an 
Ice Cream? 



A Water 
Ice? 



Moulded Mixtures may be slightly frozen before 
moulding. Pack solidly in chilled moulds and 
cover with buttered wax paper, buttered side up, 
and adjust cover. Repack in mixture of one part 
salt to four parts ice. 

Many of the mixtures frozen without stirring 
may be made in the drawers of an electric refrig- 
erator. Use special directions supplied with 
refrigerator. 

Ice creams, properly so called, are those mix- 
tures frozen with stirring, which include all 
creams except Parfaits, Bisques, and Mousses, 
which latter three are frozen (without stirring) 
in moulds packed in salt and ice. 

Water ices include fruit ices, sherbets, which are 
water ices with addition of gelatine or beaten egg 
whites ; f rappes, which are water ices frozen to a 
mush, and punch, which is made of spiced fruit 
juices. 



172 



Pecan Desserts 



The use of vegetable gelatine is suggested in 
place of animal gelatine. 



4 slices of pineapple 2 T. grated pecans Baked 

1 C. whipped cream Pineapple 

Bake pineapple in its own juice until a golden 
color. Pour off excess juice and in center of each 
slice place a spoonful of grated pecans mixed with 
whipped cream. 

Mrs. W. C. Fisher. 



8 bananas 2 C. grated pecans Baked 

3 T. butter Juice of 1 lemon Banana 

% t. salt % C. sugar Dessert 

Peel bananas. Melt butter, pour in a baking 
dish, and add the salt. Lay bananas in the dish, 
and sprinkle with pecans, lemon juice, and sugar. 
Bake until bananas are tender, basting frequently 
with the syrup in the pan. 

Mrs. Willis P. Rackley. 



Y2 envelope gelatine 1 C. boiling water Banana 

% C. cold water 4 T. lemon juice Whip 

Y2 C. sugar 1 C. banana pulp 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Soak gelatine in cold water for 5 minutes. Add 
sugar to boiling water, boil 1 minute, and add to 
softened gelatine. Cool. Add lemon juice to 
banana pulp and mash until blended. Beat the 
gelatine mixture until it is frothy and of about 
the thickness of whipped cream. Add banana 
pulp. Whip until blended, add pecans, and pour 
into molds. Chill and serve with whipped cream 
or on lettuce leaves with salad dressing. 

Mrs. A. J. Walter. 



173 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Apple Whip 4 sweet apples V2 C. chopped raisins 

1 C. grated pecans 1 egg white 

1 T. cream 

Grate apples and add pecans and raisins. Add 
cream to egg white and beat until stiff. Combine 
with first mixture. 

Mrs. Walter Jenson. 



Banana % c - su S ar 2 e Sg volks 

Custard 2 T. cornstarch 8 graham crackers 

1 t. vanilla 4 bananas 

3 C. milk 1 C. chopped pecans 

2 egg whites 

Combine first 5 ingredients and cook in double 
boiler until thick. Roll the graham crackers and 
place half in bottom of baking dish. Slice 2 of the 
bananas and place on top of crackers, then a layer 
of pecans, and a layer of custard. Repeat, cover 
with a meringue made of the stiffly beaten egg 
whites, and brown in oven. 

Mrs. Ralph Burton. 



Brown Betty 2 C. soft bread crumbs *4 t. cinnamon 

2 T. butter V2 t. nutmeg 

3 C. cooked apples V2 lemon, juice and rind 
V2 C. sugar % C. water 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Butter the bread crumbs. Add remaining 
ingredients to apples. Put % of the crumbs in 
bottom of buttered baking dish, % of the apple 
mixture, *4 of crumbs, remainder of apples, and 
remainder of crumbs. Bake until crumbs are 
brown. Serve hot with sugar and cream or hard 
sauce. 

Mrs. Sellers Love. 



174 



Pecan Desserts 



1 pkg. lemon Jello 1 small bottle maraschino Bavarian 

1 pt. boiling water cherries Cream 

1 C. whipped cream y± C. sugar 

V2 C. chopped pineapple V 2 C. chopped pecans 

1 doz. marshmallows 

Cut marshmallows, pineapple, and pecans fine. 
Add sugar and set aside. Add boiling water to 
Jello, and when cold, set dish in cold water or on 
ice and whip to consistency of whipped cream. 
Fold in whipped cream and fruit mixture. Turn 
into mold and put in cold place to harden. 

Mrs. Fred Greupner. 



V2 lb. sweet chocolate 4 eggs Chocolate 

2V 2 T. water y 2 lb. lady fingers Refrigerator 

2 T. sugar 1 C. chopped pecans Cake 

Whipped cream 

Melt chocolate in water in a double boiler. Add 
sugar. Beat yolks of eggs, add stiffly beaten 
whites, and add to chocolate. Arrange layer of 
lady fingers in well-buttered cake pan. Add layer 
of chopped pecans, then a layer of the chocolate 
mixture. Repeat twice. Put in ice box over- 
night and serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. W. H. Smith. 



% C. boiling coffee % t. salt Coffee 

14 C. milk 2 eggs Souffle 

Vs C. sugar 14 t. vanilla 

V 2 T. gelatine % C. chopped pecans 

Mix coffee, milk, sugar and gelatine in a double 
boiler and heat. Add salt and slightly beaten egg 
yolks, and cook until thick. Remove from heat, 
and add stiffly beaten egg whites, vanilla, and 
pecans. Mold, chill and serve with vanilla sauce. 

Mrs. Edwards A. Polwine. 



175 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Cake 2 T. butter 2 t. baking powder 

Sandwich 2 T. Crisco % C. pulverized sugar 

V 2 t. vanilla V2 C. thin cream 

% t. salt % t. lemon or orange 

2 eggs extract 
1% C. bread flour V2 C. grated pecans 

% C. cornstarch 1 T. granulated sugar 

Ice cream 

Cream butter with the Crisco. Add vanilla and 
salt. Break the eggs one at a time into the 
creamed fats, beating thoroughly after the addi- 
tion of each egg. Mix and sift the flour, corn- 
starch, baking powder and sugar, and add alter- 
nately with the cream to the first mixture. Add 
flavoring and pour into a baking tin lined with 
oiled paper. Sprinkle pecans and granulated 
sugar over the top of the batter. Cover with wax 
paper and bake. Cut the cake into 8 oblong slices 
and lay a small brick of vanilla ice cream between 
two slices of cake. Cover with chocolate sauce 
and sprinkle with chopped pecans. 

Hot Chocolate Sauce 
V2 C. sugar 2 sq. bitter chocolate 

2 T. boiling water x /4 C. standard fondant 

IV2 T. corn syrup V2 C. cream or milk 

V2 t. vanilla 

Boil sugar, water and syrup together until it 
forms a soft ball in cold water. Add hot syrup 
to melted chocolate. Then add fondant, cream and 
vanilla and take from fire and cool. 

Mrs. E. H. Rosenbaum. 



Grape Juice 2 C. grated rusks 1 pt. whipped cream 

Souffle 2 C. grape juice 1 C. chopped pecans 

Cover bottom of dish with a layer of crumbs. 
Add juice to moisten crumbs, whipped cream, and 
nuts. Repeat until all ingredients have been 
added. Set aside for 1 hour in a very cool place. 

Annie Larson. 

176 



Pecan Desserts 



% box gelatine 1%. C. boiling cider Cider Jelly 

i/ 2 C. cold cider 1 C. sugar 

y 2 C. chopped pecans 

Soak gelatine in cold cider for 5 minutes. Stir 
in boiling cider and sugar. When clear, add 
pecans and stand in a cool place until set. Serve 

with whipped cream. . 

Mrs. C. H. Griest. 



3 eg: cr S % lb. powdered sugar Cocoa Cream 

i/ 2 C. grated pecans Custard 

Beat yolks of eggs, add powdered sugar and stir 
until creamy. Add pecans and whites of eggs 
beaten stiff. Pour into 2 greased layer cake tins 
and bake in a slow oven for 30 minutes. When 
cool, cut in portions and serve with cocoa whipped 
cream. 

Cocoa Whipped Cream 

2 T. cocoa 

3 T. powdered sugar % C. whipping cream 

Combine sugar and cocoa with a little hot 
water. Add vanilla and cream, and whip until 
stiff enough to spread. 

Mrs. E. A. Richie. 



2 C water 4 T. cornstarch Cocoa 

1 T. butter % C. chopped pecans Custard 

% C. sugar 1 J 

3 T. cocoa Whipped cream 

Mix water and butter and bring to a boil. Com- 
bine dry ingredients and add, stirring constantly. 
Cook 8 minutes. Remove from fire, add pecans 
and vanilla and pour in molds. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

Mrs. E. L. Stodghill. 

177 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Cream Puffs 1 C. hot water y 2 C. butter 

% t. salt 1 C. flour 

4 eggs 

Heat water, salt and butter. As soon as it 
comes to a boil, add flour and stir about 5 min- 
utes. When cool, add eggs, one at a time, and 
beat thoroughly before adding another. When 
well mixed, drop by small tablespoonsful on but- 
tered pan, allowing room for them to spread. 
Bake. When cool, split and fill with cream. 

Cream 

2 T. cornstarch % C. sugar 
1 pt. milk V 2 t. salt 

3 eggs 1 C. grated pecans 

V2 t. vanilla 

Combine cornstarch with milk and cook in a 
double boiler until it begins to thicken. Beat 
together eggs, sugar and salt and add to milk. 
Cook a few minutes longer. Cool and add pecans 
and vanilla. 

Mrs. Minnie Holmes. 



Neapolitan 
Sponge 



5 egg whites 
1 C. sugar 
1 T. gelatine 
V2 C. water 
1 t. vanilla 



small bottle maraschino 

cherries 

Cocoanut 

T. cocoa 

C. chopped pecans 



Beat egg whites until stiff, and add sugar grad- 
ually. Heat gelatine and water to boiling point, 
pour over egg mixture and beat until blended. 
Flavor with vanilla. Divide in 3 portions. Color 
one pink by adding maraschino cherries with juice 
drained off. Put into mold and set on ice while 
mixing next layer. Use cocoanut for second layer 
and pour on over pink layer. For third, add cocoa 
and pecans. Keep on ice until ready to serve. 
Turn out and slice. 

Mrs. W. C. Fisher. 

178 



Pecan Desserts 



% lb. marshmallows 1 can cherries Fruit Cream 

1 pt. whipped cream 1 can sliced pineapple 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Cut marshmallows in cubes and soak 1 hour in 
whipped cream. Just before serving, add chopped 
fruit and roasted pecans. Mix thoroughly and 
serve on slices of Angel Food Cake. 

Professor M. Louise Menser. 



1 T. gelatine 2 T. chopped ginger Ginger 

Vs C. cold water 2 T. chopped candied Fruit Cream 
% C. milk pineapple 

% C. sugar 2 T. chopped candied 

1 egg white cherries 

2 T. chopped pecans % C. heavy cream 
2 T. chopped cooked prunes y± C. pecan halves 

Soak gelatine in cold water for 5 minutes. Heat 
milk and sugar in double boiler, add gelatine, and 
stir until dissolved. Remove from heat, and set 
in bowl of ice water, stirring occasionally. Fold 
beaten egg white, chopped pecans, and fruit into 
the thickened gelatine mixture, and add half of 
the whipped cream, turn into a mold, and set aside 
until firm. Unmold, and garnish with remaining 
whipped cream and pecan halves. 

Mrs. G. G. Milligan. 



3 eggs 1 t. baking powder Date Dessert 

1 C. brown sugar 1 t. vanilla 

1 C. flour 1 C. chopped pecans 

1 C. chopped dates 

Beat egg yolks, add sugar, flour, baking 
powder, vanilla, pecans and dates. Fold in well 
beaten egg whites. Bake in thin sheet in moder- 
ate oven. Serve warm with whipped cream or 
cold, crumbled in sherbet glasses. 

Mrs. H. E. Brigham. 

179 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Grape Float 1 T. gelatine 1 C. grape juice 

% C. cold water Juice of 1 lemon 

% C. sugar 3 egg whites 

% C. grated pecans 

Soften gelatine in cold water and dissolve by 
standing the dish in hot water. Dissolve sugar in 
fruit juices and strain gelatine into it. Set in a 
cool place until the mixture begins to thicken. 
Gradually add the well beaten egg whites and beat 
until the mixture is very light and stiff enough to 
hold its shape. Add pecans and serve. 

Mrs. W. Allen Hammond. 



Orange 

Bavarian 

Cream 



1 T. gelatine V 2 C. sugar 

V4r C. cold water y 8 t. salt 

1 C. orange juice 1 C. heavy cream 

Juice of V2 lemon y 2 C. chopped pecans 

Soak gelatine in cold water. Add strained fruit 
juice, sugar, and salt. Place over boiling water 
and stir until the gelatine melts and the sugar 
dissolves. Set in a cool place and stir until the 
mixture begins to thicken. Whip the cream and 
fold into the gelatine mixture. Add nuts, pour 
into molds, and let stand in a cool place until 
serving time. 

Mrs. W. W. Cutler. 



Maple Cream 1 C. maple syrup % C. cold water 

1 T. gelatine V 2 C. chopped pecans 

1 C. whipped cream 

Heat maple syrup to boiling point. Dissolve 
gelatine in cold water and add to maple syrup. 
Cool, add pecans and whipped cream. Let stand 
in the ice box 5 or 6 hours, and serve cold. 

Josephine M. Sullivan. 

180 



Pecan Desserts 



V 2 package lemon Jello V2 C. shredded cocoanut Jellied Cubes 

y 2 package strawberry Jello 1 C. chopped pecans 
y 2 lb. marshmallows IV2 C. whipping cream 

Dissolve Jello in boiling water and let stand 
until it is cold and firm. Cut in cubes, add halved 
marshmallows, shredded cocoanut, pecans, and 
sweetened and flavored whipped cream. 

Mrs. W. S. Shelby. 



IV2 C. granulated sugar 1 C. salted pecans Patrician 

1 C. whipping cream Cream 

Heat sugar until dissolved and of a rich caramel 
color, taking care not to scorch it. Stir in pecans 
and spread thinly in an unbuttered pan until cold. 
Crush brittle, mix thoroughly with whipped cream 
and serve in sherbet glasses topped with whole 
pecans. 

Mrs. George Shank. 



1/3 C. butter 1 C. chopped pecans E? tr i* ia * 

1 C. sugar Strawberry or raspberry Washington 

2 eggs jam Pie 
iy 2 C. flour % C. heavy cream 

IV2 t. baking powder 1 T. powdered sugar 

1 C. milk % t. vanilla 
1 t. vanilla 1 C. pecan halves 

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten egg yolks 
and beat for 5 minutes. Mix and sift flour and 
baking powder and add to first mixture alter- 
nately with milk. Add vanilla, chopped pecans, 
and fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake m 
layers. When cold, put the layers together with 
a thick layer of strawberry or raspberry jam and 
cover the top with the sweetened and flavored 
whipped cream. Decorate with pecan halves. 

W. Matic Jones. 



181 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Jellied 

Banana 

Dessert 



1 T. gelatine 2 T. lemon juice 

1 C. cold water 1 egg white 

% C. sugar 3 sliced bananas 

% C. orange juice 1 C. chopped pecans 

Soak gelatine in *4 C. of the cold water. Boil 
together the remaining % c. water with the 
sugar. Pour over soaked gelatine. When cool, 
stir in fruit juices. When gelatine begins to set, 
beat 5 minutes, then add egg white, sliced bananas 
and pecans. 

Cecelia Hahn. 



Pensacola 1 pt. double cream 9 lady fingers 

Pudding iy 2 doz. crystallized y 2 small can grated 

cherries pineapple 

V2 C. pecans 

Whip cream until stiff, sweeten, and flavor. On 
bottom of plain mold, sprinkle half of cherries, 
then add % of the whipped cream. Separate lady- 
fingers and lay closely on the layer of cream. 
Sprinkle with pineapple, remaining cherries, 
pecans, and add rest of the whipped cream. Cover 
with oiled paper, and pack in ice and salt for 4 
hours, using 3 parts of ice to 1 of salt. When 
frozen hard, turn out and slice. 

Mrs. J. S. Scott 



Pineapple 4 slices of pineapple 8 marshmallows 

Cream % C. grated pecans V 2 pt. whipping cream 

Candied cherries 

Cut pineapple in small pieces. Add pecans and 
chopped marshmallows. Whip cream and com- 
bine with other ingredients. Serve in sherbet 
glasses and top with candied cherries. 

Leila M. Snyder. 

182 



Pecan Desserts 



4 egg whites 
y 2 C. sugar 

1 T. gelatine 
Vz C. cold water 



y 2 t. vanilla 



C. grated pecans 
4 slices pineapple 
Ms C. pecan halves 
Whipped cream 



Pineapple 
Trifle 



Beat egg whites until stiff, and add sugar 
slowly. Dissolve gelatine in cold water, let come 
to a boil, whip slowly into egg whites, and add 
vanilla and grated pecans. Pour into a square 
mold and chill thoroughly. When ready to serve, 
cut into blocks, serve each on a slice of pineapple 
with halves of pecans around it and whipped 
cream on top. 

Mrs. Wm. M. Jones. 



y 2 pt. heavy cream % C. chopped marshmallows Peppermint 

14 lb.' peppermint stick % C. chopped pecans Dainty 
candy 

Whip cream until stiff. Add crushed candy, 
marshmallows, and pecans. Chill. 

Mrs. P. P. Harper. 



1 C. brown sugar 2 T. butter Sea Foam 

2 T. flour IV2 C. milk Custard 

1 t. salt 1 t. vanilla 

2 egg yolks 1 C. chopped pecans 

Combine sugar, flour, salt, egg yolks, butter, and 
milk, and cook in double boiler until thick. When 
cool, add vanilla and pecans. Decorate the top 
with sea foam icing. 

Icing 

2 C. brown sugar 1 T. lemon juice 

1 C. water 2 egg whites 

Combine ingredients and boil without stirring 
until syrup reaches thread stage. Pour over stiffly 
beaten egg whites and beat until cool. 

Mrs. W. T. Middleton. 



183 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Raspberry 1 pt. red raspberries y 2 C. chopped pecans 

Flummery y 2 pt. double cream 

Crush raspberries lightly with a fork. Whip 
cream and add berries and nuts. Serve in sherbet 
glasses with a whole raspberry as a garnish. 

Mrs. Leroy Brown. 



Refrigerator 1 C. butter 1 C. maraschino cherries 

Cake 2 C. sugar Juice of 1 orange 

2 eggs Juice of 1 lemon 

1 C. chopped pecans 1 lb. lady fingers 

y 2 pt. whipped cream 

Cream butter and sugar well and add the eggs 
one at a time. Add pecans, cherries, and fruit 
juice. Use a loose bottom cake pan. Line the 
sides of the pan with lady fingers, flat side next 
to the cake, and put a layer of lady fingers on the 
bottom of the pan. Spread % of the mixture, 
another layer of lady fingers, then a layer of 
whipped cream. Repeat until the pan is filled. 
Set in a refrigerator for 24 hours. Turn out of 
mold, decorate the top with mounds of whipped 
cream, and dot with cherries and pecan halves. 
The same decoration may be used around the edge 
of the plate. 

Mrs. N. H. Ragland. 



Rice and % C. rice % lb. marshmallows 

Pineapple % C. sugar y 2 C. grated pineapple 

Cream % t. salt y 2 C. whipped cream 

% C. chopped pecans 

Boil rice, drain, and add sugar, salt, and marsh- 
mallows. Stir until marshmallows are dissolved. 
Add pineapple. Set aside to cool. When ready to 
serve, add pecans, and whipped cream. 

Mrs. W. H. Covell. 



184 



Pecan Desserts 



4 apples 1 T. lemon juice Porcupines 

1 C. sugar 2 egg whites 

2 C. water Pecans 

Make a syrup of the sugar, water, and lemon 
juice. When boiling, drop in apples, which have 
been cored and pared, and cook until tender. 
Remove from syrup, cover with well beaten egg 
whites slightly sweetened. Cut pecans lengthwise 
in sharp pieces, stick in the egg white with the 
ends sticking out. Put in oven and brown lightly. 

Mrs. A. /. Allen. 



V 2 C. sugar V 2 C. chopped pecans Strawberry 

2 C. whipped cream 1 C. mashed strawberries Fluff 

Combine ingredients. Serve in sherbet glasses 
and garnish with whole strawberries and pecans. 

Mrs. H. 0. Davis. 



1 C. sugar % C. hot milk Washington 

1 C. flour 2 egg whites Pie 
V 2 t. salt Whipped cream 

3 t. baking powder Marshmallows 

Mix and sift dry ingredients 7 times. Add hot 
milk and beaten egg whites and bake in a moder- 
ate oven. When cold, split and fill with cooked 
custard. Top with whipped cream mixed with 
small pieces of marshmallows. 

Custard 

IV2 C. milk 1 t. baking powder 

2 eggs y 2 t. vanilla 

1 C. sugar V 2 C. salted pecans 

Mix milk, eggs, sugar, and baking powder and 
cook in double boiler until thick. When cool, add 
vanilla and pecans. 

Mrs. M. S. Picard. 

185 



800 Proved Pecan Eecipes 



.1. V_/ • lliilXii 

% C. sugar 




x /4 t. salt 
y 2 C. butter 
1 C. sliced strawberries 



V2 C. chopped pecans 



Beat eggs until stiff. Add milk, sugar, salt, 
and butter. Cook in a double boiler and stir until 
thick. Remove from fire. When cool, add straw- 
berries and half of pecans. Set on ice until 
chilled. Serve with whipped cream and sprinkle 
with pecans. 



Mix fruit, nuts and marshmallows. Fold in the 
cream beaten stiff and sweetened and flavored 
with vanilla. Serve in cantaloupe shells. Garnish 
with bits of bright jelly. 



Mrs. George Wilson. 



1 pt. cubed cantaloupe 

2 cubed oranges 

V2 C. chopped pecans 



12 cubed marshmallows 
1 C. heavy cream 
% C. sugar 



V2 t. vanilla 



Mrs. Grace L. Kendrick. 



186 



Pecan Desserts 



IV2 C. apricot pulp 1 t. vanilla . 

V2 C. powdered sugar % C. chopped pecans Apricot 

IV2 C. whipped cream Velvet 

Mix apricot pulp, sugar, vanilla, and pecans, 
and fold in whipped cream. Pour in mold, cover, 
and pack in 3 parts cracked ice to 1 part rock salt 
for 4 hours. 

Mrs. Mina Lowman. 



1 C. heavy cream 1 C. milk Banana 

IV2 bananas % C. sugar Ice Cream 

1 T. lemon juice % C. chopped pecans 

Whip cream, add mashed bananas, lemon juice, 
milk, and sugar. Mix well and when it begins to 
freeze, add pecans. 

Mrs. W. E. Rowe. 



% C. sugar 1 egg yolk Caramel 

1 pt. scalded cream % C. chopped pecans Ice Cream 

% C. glaced cherries 

Caramelize sugar and dissolve in scalded cream. 
Cool and add egg yolk. When partly frozen, add 
pecans and cherries cut in small pieces. 

Mrs. R. T. Wallace. 



% C. sugar 1 C. double cream Cherry 

% t. salt V2 T. vanilla Ice Cream 

Y2 egg 3 T. chopped pecans 

1 C. hot milk % C. maraschino cherries 

Mix sugar, salt, beaten egg, and milk. Cook in 
double boiler 20 minutes. When cool, add cream, 
and flavoring, and strain. Add cherries and 
pecans and freeze. 

Esther Drix. 



187 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Banana 1 pt. heavy cream *4 lb. marshmallows 

Mousse lVz T. orange juice V2 C. sliced bananas 

% C. sugar r A C. chopped pecans 

Whip cream until stiff. Add orange juice, 
sugar, chopped marshmallows, bananas, and 
pecans. Put in wet mold and pack in equal parts 
of salt and ice, and let stand 4 to 5 hours. 

Josephine Edwards. 



Baked Alaska 3 egg whites % C. grated pecans 

3 T. powdered sugar Sponge cake 

V 2 t. vanilla 1 qt. vanilla brick ice cream 

Beat egg whites until stiff. Add sugar grad- 
ually. Fold in vanilla and pecans. Cover a clean 
white board with white paper, place sponge cake 
on paper, and turn ice cream brick on to cake, 
having cake extend % inch beyond the cream. 
Cover cream with meringue mixture and spread 
it smoothly over ice cream. Place board on grate 
of a hot oven and brown meringue very quickly. 
Slip cake from paper and board to serving dish 
and serve at once. 

W. Matic Jones. 



Bisque 2 C. scalded milk x k t. salt 

Ice Cream 3 egg yolks % C. chopped pecans 

1 C. sugar 1 C. heavy cream 

% T. vanilla 

Make custard of milk, egg yolks, % C. sugar, 
and salt. Caramelize remainder of sugar, add 
pecans, and turn into buttered pan. Cool, pound, 
and pass through sieve. Add to custard, cool, and 
add whipped cream and vanilla. Freeze. 

Eva hind. 



188 



Pecan Desserts 



2 cantaloupes Peaches or pineapple Cantaloupe 

Pecan halves Ice cream Sundae 

Chopped pecans 

Chill halves of small cantaloupes. Stick sliced 
pecan halves around the edge, forming a fence. 
Put half a peach or, if melon is large, a slice of 
pineapple in center, add a scoop of ice cream, and 
sprinkle with chopped pecans. 

Mrs. A. C. McFadden. 



1 C. water 2 T. orange juice Canton 

14 C. sugar % C. maraschino cherries Sherbet 

Vs C. chopped preserved % C. whipped cream 
ginger 1 T. powdered sugar 

1 T. lemon juice 4 T. grated pecans 

Pecan halves 

Boil water, sugar, and ginger together 10 min- 
utes. Cool, add fruit juices and freeze slowly. 
When the mixture begins to congeal, stir in 
cherries, pecans, and whipped cream to which 
powdered sugar has been added. Continue to 
freeze until firm and smooth. Decorate with 
pecan halves. 

Mrs. A. B. Mathews. 



%■ C. sugar 1 C. whipped cream Cherry 

y 2 C. water V2 C. candied cherries Mousse 

IV2 egg whites % C. chopped pecans 

V 2 t. almond flavoring 

Cook sugar and water until it threads. Pour 
slowly over stiffly beaten egg whites. When cold, 
fold in whipped cream, candied cherries, pecans, 
and almond flavoring. Mold, and pack in ice and 
salt 5 hours. 

Mrs. Henry W. Slack. 



189 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Chocolate 
Mousse 



2 eggs V2 t. vanilla 

Ys C. sugar % t. salt 

V2 C. grated chocolate % C. grated pecans 

1 C. heavy cream 

Beat egg yolks until light, add sugar, chocolate, 
vanilla, salt, and pecans. Fold in whipped cream 
and stiffly beaten egg whites. Mold, pack in ice 
and salt, and let stand 4 hours, and serve. 

Mrs. I. M. Aiken. 



Chocolate 
Ice Cream 



V2 C. sugar 

% T. flour 

Vs t. salt 

1 egg 



1 C. thin cream 
IV2 sq. melted chocolate 



% T. vanilla 



1 C. grated pecans 
IV2 C. whipped cream 



Add sugar, flour, and salt to slightly beaten 
egg. Add this to thin cream and cook in a double 
boiler until mixture thickens. Add melted choco- 
late and when cool, add whipped cream, vanilla, 
and pecans. Freeze. 

Mrs. L. B. Sowers. 



Chocolate 
Fruit 
Ice Cream 



2 eggs 
V2 C. sugar 
1 C. milk 

V2 oz. sweet chocolate 
V2 C. whipped cream 



2 T. chopped dates 
2 T. chopped candied 

cherries 
2 T. raisins 
V2 C. chopped pecans 
V2 t. vanilla 



Beat yolks of eggs and add sugar. Gradually 
add to scalded milk. Add melted chocolate and 
cook in double boiler until mixture coats a silver 
spoon. Eemove from fire, add stiffly beaten egg 
whites, and when cold add whipped cream, fruit, 
nuts, and vanilla. Freeze. 

Mrs. L. B. Dobie. 

190 



Pecan Desserts 



1 C. milk 4 T. caramelized sugar Caramel 

% C. sugar 1 egg Bisque 

Vz T. flour 2 C. cream Ice Cream 

% t. salt % t. vanilla 

*/4 C. chopped pecans 

Scald milk in double boiler. Add sugar, flour, 
salt, and cook 20 minutes. Caramelize 4 T. sugar 
and add to hot milk. Beat egg slightly, add thick- 
ened milk, and cook 1 minute. Let cool and add 
cream and vanilla. Strain, add pecans, and freeze. 

Mrs. R. D. Carse. 



1 pt. cranberries Sugar Christmas 

2 C. chopped pecans Frappe 

Cook cranberries, strain, and add sugar cup for 
cup, and pecans. Freeze in moulds. 

Mrs. W. C. Grainfort. 



1 C. heavy cream 1 C. milk Coffee 

2 eggs 1 C. strong coffee Ice Cream 
1 C, sugar % C. chopped pecans 

Beat cream, eggs and sugar together. Add 
milk, coffee and pecans, and freeze. 

Mrs. Ray E. Laralette. 



1 qt. milk 1 t. almond extract French 

1 C. sugar 1 t. rose extract Ice Cream 

4 eggs 1 C. chopped pecans 

Scald milk, add sugar and eggs and cook until 
thick. When cold, flavor custard, add pecans, and 
freeze. 

Martha Moore. 



191 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Date 1 pt. milk 

Ice Cream V2 C. cream 

V2 C. sugar 

Combine ingredients 



y 2 pkg. chopped dates 
y 8 t. salt 

% C. chopped pecans 

and freeze. 

Mrs. Grace J5. Lang. 



Fruit IV2 C. sugar V2 T. vanilla 

Ice Cream 2 C. cream 6 maraschino cherries 

1 T. cornstarch % grated orange rind 

2 C. milk % C. chopped pecans 

Melt sugar. When slightly brown, add corn- 
starch mixed with i/ 2 C. cream. When cornstarch 
has cooked, add rest of cream. Cool and add other 
ingredients. Freeze. 

Ethel Harmon. 



Fruit 1 fresh or canned peach % bottle red cherries 

Milk Sherbet 1 orange % C. sugar 

1 lemon 2 C. milk 

% C. chopped pecans 

Cut fruits and nuts fine and add sugar, milk 
and pecans. Freeze. 

Grace McKeand. 



Golden 1 C. sugar Juice of 1 orange 

Ice Cream % C. water 2 C. chopped pecans 

V2 C. grated pineapple 1 qt. milk 

V 2 C. chopped apricots V2 T. flour 

1 T. Milk 

Boil sugar and water for 5 minutes. Add fruit 
and nuts. Scald milk, add flour, moistened with 
milk, combine with first mixture, cool and freeze. 

Mrs. J. P. Wheat. 



192 



Pecan Desserts 



1 qt. milk V2 T. vanilla or cherry juice Marshmallow 
% t. salt % C. cream Ice Cream 

2 eggs % C. chopped pecans 

% C. sugar Ys bottle maraschino cherries 

% T. flour Vz box marshmallows 

Add salt to milk and scald in double boiler. 
Beat eggs until stiff, then beat sugar in. Dissolve 
flour in milk and add to egg mixture. Stir into 
scalded milk and stir constantly until thick. Cool, 
add flavoring, and freeze. When it starts to 
freeze, add well beaten cream, pecans, cherries, 
and chopped marshmallows. 

Mrs. James Richard Stack. 



3 eggs IV2 C. heavy cream Maple 

% C. hot maple syrup % C. chopped pecans Parfait 

Beat eggs slightly and add maple syrup slowly. 
Cook until mixture thickens, cool, and add stiffly 
beaten cream and chopped pecans. Mold, pack in 
salt and ice, and let stand 3i/ 2 hours. 

Elizabeth C. Williams. 



1 can condensed milk 1 C. heavy cream Lemon 

1 C. milk 3 egg whites Ice Cream 

3 lemons % t. salt 

1 C. sugar % C. grated pecans 

Combine condensed milk and milk and bring to 
boiling point. Chill. Slice lemons, sprinkle with 
half the sugar, let stand 1 hour, then squeeze. 
Add remainder of sugar and stir until dissolved. 
Add to milk. Add whipped cream, stiffly beaten 
egg whites, salt, and pecans. Freeze slowly, pack, 
and let stand 1 hour before serving. 

Mrs. G. E. Lehman. 



193 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Marshmallow 1 pt. cream 1 C. cubed pineapple 

Mousse 1 lb. marshmallows 1 C. white grapes 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Pour cream over marshmallows. Let stand 4 
hours. Whip with an egg beater until smooth. 
Add drained pineapple, seeded grapes and pecans, 
and pack in ice until ready to serve. Sprinkle with 
pecans before serving. 

Mrs. Tom Teaman. 



Fruit Sherbet IV2 oranges 2 C. water 

IV2 lemons iy 2 C. sugar 

IY2 bananas y 2 C. chopped pecans 

1 C. grated pineapple 

Chop fruit, add water, sugar, and pecans, and 
freeze. Mrs. O. Brogden. 



Maple V 2 C. maple syrup 1 C. whipped cream 

Ice Cream 1 egg yolk y 2 c. milk 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Let maple syrup come to a boil. Pour slowly 
over well beaten egg yolk and cook slowly until 
thick. When cool, add to whipped cream. Add 
milk. When it begins to freeze, add pecans. 

Mrs. W. E. Rowe. 



Tutti Frutti 
Ice Cream 



1 egg 

% C. sugar 
x k pt. cream 
x /2 pt. milk 
y2 t. vanilla 



% C. grated pecans 

% C. chopped fruit, candied 

cherries, pineapple, and 

peels 



Beat egg well, add sugar and cream. Stir con- 
stantly until it is all well blended. Add milk, 
vanilla, pecans, and fruit. Freeze and pack. 

Mrs. Roy E. Poland. 

194 



Pecan Desserts 



% t. salt 
x k lb. marshmallows 



1 C. heavy cream 

2 T. powdered sugar 

1 t. vanilla 14 C. maraschino cherries 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Beat cream until stiff. Add sugar, vanilla, and 
salt. Cut marshmallows and cherries into small 
pieces and add. Turn into a mold and chill 
thoroughly. 

Alma H or ton. 



Marshmallow 
Parfait 



1 C. cream 
V2 C. sugar 

Juice and grated rind 
of V2 lemon 



% can grated pineapple 
*/i C. sugar 
1 C. chopped pecans 



Pineapple 
Ice Cream 



Combine cream and sugar and freeze. When 
nearly frozen, add lemon, pineapple, % C. sugar, 
and pecans. Finish freezing. 

Mrs. Isabel Keller. 



% C. sugar 2 T. lemon juice Pineapple Ice 

% C. hot water l C. crushed pineapple 

V2 C. cold water y 2 C. chopped pecans 

Mix sugar and hot water and boil until the 
syrup spins a thread. Add cold water, lemon 
juice, pineapple, and pecans. Freeze. 

Mrs. F. E. Hartstuff. 



1 ^ watermelon pulp and V f lemon Watermelon 

J / Uice x /2 C. grated pecans Sherbet 

V 2 C. sugar 1 egg white 

Add sugar, lemon juice, and pecans to water- 
melon. Partially freeze, and stir in stiffly beaten 
egg white. Finish freezing. 

I eel Alward. 

195 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Peach 7 peaches 2 T. grated cocoanut 

Ice Cream 1 C. powdered sugar % C. grated pecans 

1 T. lemon juice 3 egg whites 

1 C. whipped cream 

Cut peaches in slices, mash, and pass through a 
sieve. Add powdered sugar, lemon juice, cocoa- 
nut, and pecans. Chill for several hours. Fold 
in stiffly beaten egg whites and freeze slowly. 
When mixture begins to congeal, add whipped 
cream. 

Mrs. E. M. Drake. 



Raisin V2 C. raisins 1 C. heavy cream 

Ice Cream V2 C. grated pecans 1 pt. milk 

% C. orange juice % C. sugar 

1 t. vanilla 

Put raisins through food chopper, combine with 
pecans, and add orange juice. Combine with 
cream, milk, sugar and vanilla, and freeze. 

Mrs. B. W. LaHeist. 



Strawberry 1 pt. strawberries IY2 egg whites 

Ice 1 C. sugar % C. chopped pecans 

Crush strawberries, add sugar, unbeaten egg 
whites, and pecans. Freeze. 

Mrs. D. S. Weeks. 



Strawberry 1 pt. strawberries V2 C. milk 

Ice Cream 1 C. sugar 1% C. heavy cream 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Mash berries and press through sieve. Add 
sugar and let stand 1 hour. Mix with milk and 
whipped cream, add pecans, and freeze. 

Edna May Ewert. 

196 



1 



Pecan Desserts 



1V 2 C. thick cream 1 C. chopped pineapple Pineapple 

V2 C. powdered sugar Vanilla ice cream Parfait 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Whip cream until stiff and add sugar. Chill 
and fold in pineapple. Put rounds of vanilla ice 
cream in parfait glasses and fill with pineapple 
mixture. Sprinkle with chopped pecans and 
serve. 

Mrs. E. M. Drake. 



y 2 C. grape jelly 1 C. heavy cream Grape Sauce 

1 T. lemon juice % C. grated pecans 

Mix jelly and lemon juice; add to cream, and 
whip stiff. Add pecans and serve with ice cream. 

Mrs. Grace L. Kendrick. 



% C. maple syrup % C. heavy cream Maple 

2 T. butter % C. chopped pecans Cream Sauce 

Boil syrup and butter to 232° F. or until it 
forms a soft ball. Remove from fire and add 
cream slowly. Add pecans and serve hot. 

Mrs. Feroe C. Renter. 



2 sq. chocolate 1% C. sugar Chocolate 

2 T. butter 1 t. vanilla Sauce 

2 C. milk % C. chopped pecans 

Melt chocolate with butter. Slowly add milk, 
sugar and vanilla. Beat. Add pecans and serve 
hot with ice cream or pudding. 

Rebecca J. Slaymaker. 

197 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Fruit Sauce 2 oranges y 2 c. cherries 

¥? lemon V 2 C. powdered sugar 

% O. shredded pineapple 1 pt. red raspberries 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Mix the oranges, lemon, pineapple, cherries, 
and sugar together and chill a half day. When 
ready to serve, add the nuts and berries. Serve 
with ice cream. 

H. S. Boyd. 



Maple Sauce 1 pt. maple syrup 1 C. chopped pecans 

Bring maple syrup to boiling point, and add 
pecans. Serve hot over ice cream, preferably 
vanilla. 

Mrs. G. W. Divelle. 



Chocolate % C. cocoa 2 C. milk 

Pudding 1 C. sugar % t. salt 

1 C. bread crumbs 1 t. grated lemon rind 

2 egg yolks i/ 2 C. grated pecans 

Mix cocoa, sugar, and bread crumbs together 
and place in a moderate oven until dry. Beat egg 
yolks until light, add milk, salt, lemon rind, and 
pecans, and combine with first mixture. Bake in 
greased pan in a moderate oven 30 minutes. 

Anna Belle Booth. 



Apple Glace 3 apples 2 eggs 

4 T. butter i/ 2 C. sugar 

Y 2 C. raisins iy 2 T. cold water 
V2 C. chopped pecans % C. flour 

Y2 C. brown sugar 1 t. baking powder 

Melt butter in an aluminum pan. Peel apples 
and cut in eighths. Lay in rows in pan. Cook 
in butter until tender. Sprinkle with raisins, nuts, 

198 



Pecan Desserts 



and brown sugar and cook until sugar dissolves. 
Cool. Cover with spongecake batter and bake in 
moderate oven. Serve with whipped cream. 

Batter 

Beat yolks of eggs, add sugar, water, and flour 
mixed and sifted with the dry ingredients. Fold 
in stiffly beaten egg whites. 

Mrs. L. J. Smith. 



2 C. milk 2 eggs Banana 

% C. sugar % t. vanilla Custard 

% C. flour Vz C. chopped pecans 

% t. salt ii lb. vanilla wafers 

3 bananas 

Scald milk in double boiler, add sugar mixed 
with flour, and salt. Stir and cook until thick, 
cover and cook 15 minutes. Add egg yolks 
slightly beaten and cook 2 minutes longer. 
Remove from fire and beat into the well beaten 
egg whites. When cool, flavor with vanilla and 
add pecans. Arrange in alternate layers of 
wafers, sliced bananas, and custard. Serve with 
or without whipped cream. 

Mrs. E. L. Stodghill. 



1 C. stale bread crumbs 1 T. butter Bread Pudding 

2 C. milk Rind of "Vz lemon 
2 eggs V2 C. raisins 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Combine bread crumbs, milk, egg yolks, butter, 
lemon rind, raisins, and pecans. Bake. Cover 
with a meringue made from the egg whites and 
return to oven to brown. Serve with lemon sauce. 

Mrs. Maude Woolley. 

199 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Cherry 
Batter 
Pudding 



1 T. butter 
% C. sugar 



V 2 C. water 



1 C. cherries 

C. grated pecans 
1 C. flour 
1 t. baking powder 

Melt butter, add sugar, water, cherries, pecans, 
and flour sifted with baking powder. Bake in a 
moderate oven, and serve with sugar and cream. 

Mrs. F. M. Musselman. 



Apple Pudding 2 C. flour Milk 

V2 t. salt 2 C. chopped apples 

4 t. baking powder y 3 C. sugar 

4 T. sugar % £ # chopped pecans 

4 T. shortening 1 t. cinnamon 

Mix and sift first 4 ingredients. Cut in shorten- 
ing, and add milk enough to make a soft batter. 
Combine apples, sugar, pecans and cinnamon, and 
add to batter. Bake slowly in buttered pan until 
brown. Slice and serve with a hot sauce, cream, 
or ice cream. 

Mrs. H. A. Hobble. 



Rhubarb & C. butter % C. milk 

Batter V 2 C. sugar y 2 C. chopped pecans 

Pudding 1 egg iy 2 qts. chopped rhubarb 

IV2 C. flour 1 C. sugar 

2V 2 t. baking powder 1 C. light brown sugar 

1 T. butter 

Cream butter and sugar, add well beaten egg, 
mixed and sifted dry ingredients, milk, and 
pecans. Place rhubarb and sugar in a pan, pour 
batter over the mixture and bake. Turn out on a 
large platter. Cream the brown sugar and butter 
and spread over the top. 

Mrs. Mae E. Buckner. 



200 



Pecan Desserts 



Vz lb. dates 1 C. dry bread crumbs Date Pudding 

1 G. chopped pecans y 2 C. powdered sugar 

3 eggs 

Cut dates into small pieces. Add pecans, and 
mix with bread crumbs and powdered sugar. Add 
egg yolks and beat together until light. Add stiffly 
beaten egg whites. Pour into a glass baking dish 
and bake in hot oven 15 minutes. Serve with 
Snowflake Sauce. 

Snow flake Sauce 
V2 lb. butter 1 C. heavy cream 

1 C. powdered sugar Grated lemon rind 

Few drops of lemon juice 

Cream butter with sugar and add cream grad- 
ually. Flavor with lemon rind and juice. Keep 
sauce on ice until ready to use. 

Mrs. E. L. Boyd. 



1 qt. milk It. grated nutmeg Rice Pudding 

1 C. cooked rice y 2 C. chopped pecans 

2 eggs i/ 2 C. raisins 

4 T. sugar 

Heat milk very hot. Stir in rice, eggs, nutmeg, 
pecans, raisins, and sugar. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Mrs. Pearl Oleslager. 



1 C. cooked chopped prunes 1 t. vanilla Prune 
Vz C. sugar 1 T. melted butter Pudding 

1 C. chopped pecans y 2 C. dried bread crumbs 

V2 C. milk or prune juice 1 t. baking powder 

% t. salt 

Mix ingredients, pour into buttered baking 
dish, and place in pan of boiling water. Bake in 
moderate oven until firm. Serve hot or cold with 
plain or whipped cream. 

Pritchett Harrison. 

201 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Orange V2 C. bread crumbs 3 T. sugar 

Pudding 1 T. butter 1 orange, juice and grated 

1 C. scalded milk rind 

1 egg yolk V2 C. grated pecans 

Add bread crumbs and butter to scalded milk 
and soak for 30 minutes. Add egg yolk beaten 
with sugar, orange juice, and rind. Add pecans, 
pour into a buttered casserole, and bake in a 
moderate oven until firm. Serve with orange puff 
sauce. 

Orange Puff Sauce 
1 egg white V2 orange, juice and grated 

% t. salt rind 
Ys C. powdered sugar V2 lemon, juice 

Beat egg white and salt together until very stiff. 
Add sugar slowly, beating constantly, add grated 
rind and juice of orange and juice of lemon. 

Mrs. Wm. M. Jones. 



Steamed 

Chocolate 

Pudding 



V2 C. sugar 
1 T. butter 
1 egg 

1 sq. melted chocolate 
% C. milk 



1 C. flour 
1 t. baking powder 
1 t. vanilla 
% C. chopped pecans 
Whipped cream 



Cream sugar and butter, add well beaten egg, 
chocolate, milk, sifted dry ingredients, vanilla, and 
pecans. Pour into greased covered tin and steam 
2 hours. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Arthur G. Loiv. 



Snow Balls % C. butter lVs C. flour 

V2 C. sugar 1 t. baking powder 

% C. milk 2 egg whites 

Cream butter and sugar, add milk, and flour 
mixed and sifted with baking powder. Fold in 

202 



Pecan Desserts 



stiffly beaten egg whites. Steam in buttered cups 
35 minutes. Serve hot or cold with chocolate 
sauce. 

Chocolate Sauce 
1 sq. chocolate l egg yolk 

oi/ 1 m P° wdered su &ar y 2 t. vanilla 
2% T. milk y 2 c. chopped pecans 

Melt chocolate over hot water. Add y 2 C. sugar 
and milk. Add remaining sugar and egg yolk. 
Cook in a double boiler until it thickens. Remove 
from fire, add vanilla and pecans. Serve hot or 
cold. 

Mrs. Robert E. Woodward. 



2 C. stale bread crumbs y 2 C. 

% t. salt 2 T. 

V2 t. cinnamon y 2 C. 

% t. nutmeg % C." 

% t. cloves y 2 c. 

% C. hot milk y 2 c. 

2 eggs i/ 2 c! 

% C. sugar y 2 c. 



butter 
grape juice 
chopped figs 
raisins 

candied cherries 
citron 
currants 
chopped pecans 



New England 
Steamed 
Plum Pudding 



Mix bread crumbs with salt and spices, add hot 
milk and let stand until cool. Beat eggs, and add 
sugar and butter. Mix well, add bread crumbs 
with milk and grape juice. Add fruits and nuts. 
Pour into covered mold and steam 6 hours. Serve 
with hard sauce. 

Hard Sauce 

3 T. butter 1 T. boiling water 

1 C. powdered sugar 14 t. vanilla 

% t. lemon flavoring 

u Cream butter and sugar until light. Add boil- 
ing water, beating constantly. Add flavoring and 
cool on ice. 

Nell Dooley. 

203 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Lemon 1 C. soft bread crumbs % C. sugar 

Bread Pudding 2 C. scalded milk 1 lemon (juice and grated 

1 C. chopped pecans rind) 

% t. salt 2 egg whites 

2 egg yolks Cream or fruit sauce 

Mix first 7 ingredients. When well blended, cut 
and fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour 
into individual molds and bake 20 to 30 minutes. 
Serve hot with cream or fruit sauce. 

E. Leutemann. 



Steamed 

Carrot 

Pudding 



% C. 

% c. 

% c. 

% c. 

% c. 

% c. 

% t. 



grated carrots 
grated potatoes 
sugar 
molasses 
seedless raisins 
seeded raisins 
cinnamon 



^4 t. cloves 
y 8 t. ginger 
% t. baking powder 
% t. soda 
V 2 T. butter 
% C. chopped pecans 
Flour 



Combine ingredients and add enough flour to 
make a stiff batter. Steam 3 hours and serve with 



cream or sauce. 



Mrs. Ida C. Macfarlane. 



Peach 6 ripe peaches 2 T. sugar 

Cobbler % C. sugar % t. salt 

% C. chopped pecans 1 t. baking powder 

1 egg 1 C. flour 

% C. milk 

Peel and slice peaches. Butter baking dish and 
place peaches in bottom. Sprinkle with sugar and 
pecans. Cover with a batter made of the remain- 
ing ingredients. Bake 40 minutes in a moderate 
oven. Serve hot or cold with cream. 

Mrs. D. A. Drake. 



204 



Pecan Desserts 



1 T. butter % t. salt Steamed 

1 C. sugar 1 t. baking powder C ; nerry 

1 egg 1 C. milk Pudding 

1V 2 C. flour 1 C. grated pecans 

2 C. cherries 

Cream butter and sugar and add beaten egg. 
Mix and sift dry ingredients and add alternately 
with the milk. Add pecans and cherries. Steam 
2i/ 2 hours. Serve warm with cherry sauce. 

Cherry Sauce 

1 C. cherry juice % C. sugar 

1 C. water 2 T. flour 

Cold water 

Bring first 3 ingredients to a boil. Thicken 
with flour rubbed smooth with a little cold water. 

Mrs. Wm. M. Jones. 



2 eggs V2 t. soda Steamed 

1 C. brown sugar 1 t. baking powder Date Puddir 

y 2 C*. flour % C. chopped pecans 

% package dates 

Beat eggs slightly. Add sugar gradually, sifted 
dry ingredients, nuts, and chopped dates. Steam 
1 hour. Serve with a brown sauce. 

Mrs. George Fogel. 



2 C. flour 1 egg Steamed 

2 t. baking powder 1 C. milk i/H?? 

1 t. salt 2 C. cooked prunes Pudding 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Sift together flour, baking powder and salt. 
Add well beaten egg and milk. Fold in chopped 
prunes and add pecans. Steam 2 hours. Serve 
with hard sauce. 

Mrs. A. K. Presoda. 



205 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Tapioca % C. pearl tapioca 1 sliced banana 

Pudding 1 C. grated pineapple Sugar 

2 cubed oranges Grated pecans 

Whipped cream 

Soak tapioca over night in cold water. Cook in 
a double boiler. Mix fruit together and add sugar 
to taste. Blend fruit juice and warm tapioca. 
Add fruit. Fill sherbet glasses with pudding and 
put in a cool place. Just before serving, sprinkle 
with pecans and whipped cream. 

Ella Helena Chase. 



Tutti Frutti 2 eggs 1 C. bread or cake, diced 

Pudding i c. sugar 3 sliced bananas 

2 C. scalded milk 1 C. chopped pineapple 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Mix beaten eggs with sugar and add scalded 
milk gradually. Put bread, bananas, pineapple, 
and pecans in a pudding dish. Pour the first mix- 
ture over them. Set in a pan of water and bake 
in a moderate oven 45 minutes. Serve with a 
sauce. 

Mrs. Francis C. Williams. 



206 



CHAPTER IX 



PECAN ENTREES 

SOUFFLE 
CROQUETTES 
LOAF ENTREES 
PANNED ENTREES 
EGG DISHES 



"New dishes beget 
new appetite" 




PECAN ENTREES 



CREAMED CELERY 




CHAPTER IX 



Pecan Entrees 

The changed meaning of the word "entree" is in How the 
itself one of those straws which show which way S^^ ee » 
the wind is blowing — in the direction of the low 
protein diet. For the term "entree" originally Changed 
meant the dish prefacing or preceding the main 
course, and in this sense still applies in formal din- 
ners. But this prefacing dish was usually high in 
protein content; and the main dish was generally 
high in protein — is it any wonder that the insur- 
ance companies came to fear kidney diseases and 
excess protein ailments worse than they feared 
tuberculosis ? 

But now, in leading hotels, the term "entrees" The Main 
appears above the main protein dishes offered on ])jg£ em 
their menus. Seldom does one order an entree around 
and follow it by a beefsteak dinner, as in the which 
olden days. A change which is for the better, the Meal 
especially if the entree is a combination containing 1S Built 
a proper balance of protein and fat, such as 
pecans impart. 

Since it is the almost universal custom to build 
the meal around a central dish, why not use as 
that central dish one of the pecan entrees which 
follow? The pecan contains protein aplenty 
(11%) and protein of a superior character, as we 
have seen in Chapter II. 

Since peas, beans, milk, eggs, cheese, cereals, 
etc., all contain protein in varying proportion, we 
need have no fear of a lack of this tissue-building, 
tissue-repairing material. 



209 



Pecans contain fats — or oil — of the most palat- 
able, most easily assimilated type ; and are so rich 
in these fats that no other source of fat need be 
provided in the diet. Another advantage of these 
pecan entrees, with their finely flaked pecan par- 
ticles, is the laxative effect of the pecan fat. 



Simplify 

Meal 

Planning 



The question, "What shall we eat?" revolves 
most frequently around the main dish of the meal. 
When you answer that question with a pecan 
entree from the following pages, you not only 
simplify the meal planning and provide something 
different, but you also assure a proper balance of 
protein and fat, the needed content of mineral 
salts, and a vitamin content of the most desirable 
type. 

In Chapter XIV, on Menus, you will find 
suggestions for the use of these entrees in such a 
manner that they suggest a food balance calculated 
to maintain good health for the whole family. 



210 



Pecan Entrees 



IV2 C. cracker crumbs 2 T. butter Asparagus 

1 C. asparagus tips 2 C. milk Entree 

V2 C. grated pecans 1 t. salt 

4 T. flour 1 C. grated cheese 

Cut asparagus tips in two and combine with 
cracker crumbs and pecans. Make white sauce, 
melt butter and add flour and salt, add heated milk 
and liquid from asparagus and stir until smooth. 
Add grated cheese and remove from heat as soon 
as cheese is well blended with sauce. Pour sauce 
over dry ingredients. Bake in buttered casserole 
or ramekins, in slow oven until browned. 

Columbus Whatley. 



1 egg plant 2 T. butter Baked 

% C. bread crumbs 1 t. salt Egg Plant 

2 eggs % C. chopped pecans 

Pare and dice egg plant, soak in cold water and 
cook until tender. Drain and mash. Add remain- 
der of ingredients. Bake in a buttered baking 

dish until brown. . _ 

Mrs. K. Archer. 



V2 C. milk 14 t. salt Asparagus 

% C. flour y 2 C. grated pecans Tips in 

1 t. melted Crisco 1 bunch asparagus Timbale Cases 

1 egg 2 eggs 

Parsley 

Combine first 6 ingredients and beat smooth with 
egg beater. Heat timbale iron in deep Crisco, dip 
in batter, return to hot Crisco, cook until brown, 
remove, and drain. Fill with creamed asparagus 
tips, put spoonful scrambled eggs on top, and 
sprinkle with chopped parsley. 



211 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Baked Cereal 1 C. cooked cereal 1V 2 T. lemon juice 

and Cheese 1 C. grated cheese y 2 t. Worcestershire Sauce 

V2 C. milk % t. paprika 

1 t. sugar 1 T. chopped onion 

1 t. salt 1 T. butter 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Combine ingredients, cooking the onion slightly 
in the butter. Bake in buttered baking dish 
Serve with preferred sauce. Eva Lind. 



Asparagus 3 T. butter 3 eggs 

Souffle 3 T. flour 1 t. salt 

1 C. milk % t. paprika 

1 C. asparagus % C. grated pecans 

Make white sauce of first three ingredients. 
Mix with asparagus tips and put through sieve. 
Beat yolks of eggs until thick, add salt and 
paprika and add to the first mixture. Fold in the 
stiffly beaten egg whites and bake in a well 
greased baking dish. Bake for 30 minutes in a 
very slow oven, then turn off the heat and let the 
souffle stand in the oven for 10 minutes. 



Baked Bean 5 C. cooked beans % C. cracker crumbs 

Roast 2 T. butter 1 t. salt 

Stuffing 

2 C. bread crumbs % t. sage 

1 onion V2 t. salt 

1 T. butter 1 egg 

1 C. grated pecans 

Sauce 

1 T. flour % t. Vegex 

1 T. butter 1 C. bean water 

1 t. salt 

Puree beans, add butter, salt, cracker crumbs. 

212 



Pecan Entrees 



Line casserole or baking dish with three-fourths 
of the mixture. Make stuffing — soak bread 
crumbs in cold water and drain. Cut onion, saute 
in butter, add sage and salt. Add bread crumbs, 
egg, and pecans, and brown well. Fill form with 
mixture and cover with remainder of bean mix- 
ture. Bake until brown. 

Sauce — Melt butter, add flour, salt, dissolved 
Vegex and bean water. 

Mrs. Hanna Breckenridge. 



1 small onion 1 C. grated pecans Baked Rice 

1 sweet pepper 1 C. tomatoes 

1 T. butter 1 egg 

Yq C. cooked rice 1 t. parsley 

V2 C. bread crumbs % t. salt 

2 C. mashed potatoes 

Saute the onion and pepper in butter. Combine 
the remaining ingredients, reserving the potatoes. 
Add to first mixture, shape into loaf and bake in 
a covered, buttered baking dish 20 minutes. Cover 
with potatoes, dot with butter, and bake 20 min- 
utes longer. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Mrs. J. S. Brown. 



2 C. lentil pulp 1 C. bread crumbs Baked 

1 C. strained tomato 1 C. chopped pecans Lentils 

2 eggs % C. chopped celery 
1 t. salt 1 t. onion juice 

Combine pureed lentils with tomato. Add 
beaten eggs, salt, bread crumbs, pecans, celery, 
and onion juice. Bake in moderate oven. May 
be served hot or cold, in slices. 

Mrs. L. F. Fitzell. 



213 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Baked 8 medium sized tomatoes 2 T. butter 

Tomatoes V2 C. bread crumbs 1 T. chopped onion 

% C. celery y 2 C. chopped pecans 

1 t. salt 

Cut slice from stem end of tomatoes and remove 
pulp. Combine pulp with other ingredients, refill 
shells, dot with butter, and bake in moderate oven 
30 minutes. 

Mrs. L. N. Walker. 



4 C. pureed beans 1 T. butter 

1 C. strained tomato 1 C. bread crumbs 

1 egg 1 C. chopped pecans 

1 onion 1 T. parsley 

2 t. salt 

Combine the beans and tomato, add beaten eggs. 
Saute onion in butter and add bread crumbs. 
Combine with first mixture. Add pecans, chopped 
parsley and salt. Serve with Tomato Sauce. 

Mrs. Laura M. Michael. 



Bean and 
Tomato Loaf 



Bean Timbales % C. beans 

1 onion 
6 cloves 

12 peppercorns 

2 t. salt 



% C. bread crumbs 
V2 t. salt 
2 T. butter 
% C. chopped pecans 
Milk 



Soak beans overnight, drain, cover with fresh 
water, add onion, cloves, peppercorns, and salt. 
Cook until soft. Puree. Add bread crumbs, salt, 
butter, chopped pecans, and milk to moisten. Bake 
in buttered timbale molds set in pan of water. 
Remove from molds and serve with tomato or 
white sauce. 

Ida Holekamp. 

214 



Pecan Entrees 



6 sweet potatoes 1 C. corn syrup Candied 

3 T. butter % C. chopped pecans Sweet 

Cook the potatoes in salted water and cut in Potatoes 
halves lengthwise. Lay in buttered baking dish, 
spread with butter, and pour the corn syrup over 
them. Sprinkle with chopped pecans and bake, 
basting often. 

Mrs. Floyd J. Kingdon. 



4 C. canned tomatoes 1 C. chopped pecans Breaded 

1 C. bread crumbs % C. melted butter Tomatoes 

1 t. salt 

Put layer of salted tomatoes in buttered baking 
dish alternately with layers of pecans and but- 
tered bread crumbs, topping with the bread 
crumbs. Bake 20 minutes. 

Mrs. Wm. Duncanson. 



2 C. chopped celery 2 eggs Celery and 

1 C. bread crumbs Milk or celery stock Potatoes in 

1 C. mashed potatoes 1 C. chopped pecans Ramekins 

1 t. salt 2 T. chopped parsley 

Cook celery and drain. Add bread crumbs, 
mashed potatoes, beaten eggs, pecans and season- 
ing to celery. Add sufficient milk or liquid from 
celery to moisten. Bake in buttered ramekins. 

Mrs. H. E. Wieand. 



1 C. minced celery 1 T. melted butter Celery Patties 

V2 C. grated carrots 1 egg 

1 C. bread crumbs 1 t. salt 

4 T. flour 1 C. grated pecans 

Combine ingredients, having egg well beaten. 
Form into small cakes and brown in buttered pan 
in hot oven. Serve with a cream parsley sauce. 

Mrs. C. S. Justice. 



215 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Breaded 1 T. minced onion 1 C. bread crumbs 

Cheese Balls 1 T. butter 2 T. grated pecans 

1 C. grated cheese 2 T. lemon juice 

V2 t. salt 1 egg 

Cook the chopped onion in butter. Add to 
cheese, bread crumbs, and other ingredients. Add 
beaten egg white, shape into balls, dip in beaten 
egg yolk diluted with 1 T. water. Roll in bread 
crumbs, and brown in butter. Serve with tomato 
sauce. Mrs. Harry Ream. 



Casserole 8 medium-sized onions 1 C. chopped pecans 

Onions 1 C. bread crumbs 1 T. flour 

% t. salt 1 T. butter 

V2 t. paprika 1 C. milk 

1 T. butter y 2 t. salt 

Peel onions and boil whole in salted water. 
When cool, remove centers from onion, chop and 
combine with other materials. Stuff onion shells 
with mixture. Make white sauce of last 4 ingre- 
dients and pour over onions which have been 
placed in a buttered baking dish. Bake 30 

minutes. AT TT _ . 

Mrs. N. H. Ragland. 



Celery 1 small onion 3 T. flour 

Souffle V2 sweet green pepper 1 C. milk 

3 stalks celery 4 eggs 

3 T. butter 1 t. salt 

% C. chopped pecans 

Chop onion, pepper, and celery fine and saute 
in butter until soft. Melt butter, add flour and 
salt, blend thoroughly and add heated milk. Add 
to other ingredients and cool. Beat egg yolks and 
add salt, and chopped pecans. Add to first mix- 
ture. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in 
buttered casserole in pan of water in a moderate 
oven for 14 hour. 

Mrs. Floyd Avis. 



216 



Pecan Entrees 



Vf C. riee y 2 t. salt 

V2 C. chopped pecans 4 cooked beets 

Cream sauce 

Wash and steam rice. Add pecans and salt. 
Scoop the centers from beets, fill with the rice 
mixture. Stand in a baking pan and bake in a 
moderate oven for 20 minutes. Chop the beet 
taken from the center very fine, add to a cream 
sauce and pour around the beets just before serv- 
ing. Garnish with green peas. 

Mrs. John Dixon. 



1 C. milk 1 T. butter 

2 C. bread crumbs 1 t. salt 
1 onion 1 egg 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Moisten bread crumbs with milk. Add finely 
chopped onion, melted butter, pecans, salt, and 
well beaten egg. Mix thoroughly, shape in cro- 
quette molds. Cook in deep fat. Serve with 
Creole Sauce. MrSt St Ht street 



2 C. dry bread crumbs 
1 C. celery 

1 C. strained tomatoes 
1 T. chopped onion 



1 T. butter 
1 t. salt 
1 egg 

1 C. chopped pecans 



Combine bread crumbs, celery, tomatoes, onion 
sauted in butter, salt, well beaten egg, and pecans. 
Bake in buttered baking dish until brown. 

Mrs. W. J. Thayer. 



Beets Stuffe- 
With Rice 



1 C. grated cheese 
1 C. bread crumbs 
1 t. salt 



2 t. chopped onion 

3 T. lemon juice 
Vz C. chopped pecans 

Combine ingredients, adding milk if mixture is 
not of proper consistency to make into flat cakes. 
Pan broil and serve with tomato sauce. 

Mrs. M. L. Lott. 

217 



Bread Crum 
Croquettes 



Celery and 
Tomato Loaf 



Cheese 
Patties 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Casserole 
of Peas 



2 C. bread crumbs 

1 C. green pea puree 

3 T. butter 

1 small onion 

3 T. tomato catsup 

1 t. salt 



1 egg 

1 C. chopped pecans 

1 T. flour 

1 T. butter 

i/ 2 C. milk 

1 t. salt 



Make white sauce of last 4 ingredients and 
combine with other materials, having egg well 
beaten and onion sauted in butter. Bake in but- 
tered casserole until well browned. May be served 
with a sauce. B. S. Leeds. 



Casserole 
Macaroni 



1 C. cooked macaroni 
1 C. grated cheese 

1 T. chopped parsley 

2 T. chopped pimento 
1 T. onion juice 



2 t. salt 

% C. butter 
1 C. milk 

3 eggs 

1 C. grated pecans 



Beat the eggs, add the milk, and combine with 
other ingredients. Turn into a buttered casserole. 
Place on folds of paper in a pan of hot water and 
bake in a moderate oven % hour. Serve with a 
tomato sauce. 

Mrs. Jean Grief. 



Casserole 
of Rice 



2 C. hot cooked rice 

% C. chopped pecans 

2 T. butter 

2 T. flour 



% C. milk 
1 C. grated cheese 
V 2 t. salt 
% t. paprika 



Season rice with salt, paprika, and 1 T. butter 
and place in a vegetable dish. Make a white sauce 
with remaining butter, flour, and milk. When 
thick, add cheese and cook until creamy. Sprinkle 
pecans on rice and pour cheese sauce over all. 
Bake. Garnish with rings of stuffed olives and 
pecans. Mrs. F. O. Beitel. 

218 



Pecan Entrees 



1 C. cooked potatoes 1 onion Casserole of 

1 C. cooked spinach or peas 1 T. butter Vegetables 

1 C. cooked carrots 1 t. salt 

1 C. bread crumbs 1 C. chopped pecans 

1 egg Milk 

Combine ingredients, the onion cooked in but- 
ter, the egg well beaten, and the pecans added last, 
adding milk to moisten. Bake in buttered baking 
dish 30 minutes. Mrs E E PajuneUt 



1 medium sized cauliflower 1 T. chopped parsley Cauliflower 

2 T. butter 1 T. chopped pimento Polonaise 
2 T. flour % C. grated cheese 

1 C. milk y 2 C. grated pecans 
1 t. salt Bread crumbs 

Soak cauliflower, head down, in salted water. 
Tie in cheese cloth and cook in boiling salted water 
until almost tender. Break into flowerettes, put 
in buttered casserole, cover with white sauce to 
which pecans have been ;added, sprinkle with 
cheese and bread crumbs. Bake until brown. 
Cover with chopped parsley and pimento. 



4 C. sliced potatoes 1 t. salt Casserole 

2 C. milk 2 T. chopped onion Potatoes 

2 T. butter % C. cheese Au Gratin 

2 T. flour % C. grated pecans 

Peel and slice potatoes very thin. Make white 
sauce of butter, flour, salt, and milk. Put layers 
of potatoes in a buttered casserole, alternating 
with layers of grated pecans and cheese, sprinkled 
with chopped onion. Pour white sauce over mix- 
ture, sprinkle with bread crumbs, and bake. 

Maude Lundin. 



219 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Cereal and 
Cottage 
Cheese Loaf 



2 C. cottage cheese 
1 C. cooked cereal 
1 C. bread crumbs 



2 T. chopped onion 
1 t. salt 

% t. kitchen bouquet 



1 C. chopped pecans 

Combine ingredients, adding milk if mixture is 
too dry. Bake in a buttered pan until well 
browned. Turn out on platter, serve with a cream 
of tomato sauce, and garnish with parsley. 

Emma Kahl. 



Cereal 1 C. cooked cereal 1 t. salt 

Roast 1 C. bread crumbs 1 onion 

1 C. milk 1 T. butter 

% t. Vegex % C. grated pecans 

2 T. chopped olives 

Add milk in which Vegex has been dissolved to 
cereal. Add bread crumbs, onions sauted in but- 
ter, salt, olives, and pecans. Bake in a buttered 
pan in hot oven for 30 minutes. Serve with a 
mushroom sauce. 

Mrs. Sarah Miller. 



Corn Balls 1 C. corn Vz t. salt 

1% C. bread crumbs V 2 C. chopped pecans 

2 T. flour 1 egg 

Milk 

Combine ingredients, adding beaten egg last. 
Add milk to make mixture of consistency to shape 
into small balls. 

Tomato Sauce 

2 T. butter % t. salt 

2 T. flour % t. paprika 

2 C. strained tomato 

Melt butter, add flour, tomato and seasoning. 
Cook thoroughly. Put balls in buttered baking 
dish. Cover with sauce and bake 15 minutes. 

Marie Eulalie Moran. 

220 



Pecan Entrees 



1 medium sized cauliflower 1 C. milk Cauliflower in 

2 T. butter 1 t. salt Ramekins 
2 T. flour V2 C. chopped pecans 

2 T. chopped pimento 

Soak cauliflower, head down, in salted water. 
Tie in cheesecloth, cook in boiling salted water, 
separate into flowerettes. Put in buttered rame- 
kins, and add white sauce to which pecans and 
pimento have been added, and bake. 

Mrs. E. L. Van Hossier. 



1 C. finely chopped celery 2 T. butter 
% C. finely chopped pecans 2 T. grated onion 
1 X A C. bread crumbs 1 T. salt 

1 T. grated cheese 1% C. strained tomatoes 

2 eggs 

Add celery, pecans, bread crumbs, cheese, but- 
ter, onion, and salt to strained tomatoes. Mix 
well and add well beaten eggs. Bake in a buttered 
baking dish 35 to 40 minutes. Serve with a cream 
parsley sauce. Eva Lindt 



Celery and 

Tomato 

Entree 



1 C. bread crumbs y 2 t. poultry seasoning Celery in 

1 C. chopped celery 2 T. butter Potato Border 

1 C. grated pecans 1 C. milk 

Y2 t. onion juice Vs t. kitchen bouquet 

Chop celery, add bread crumbs, pecans, and 
seasoning. Add milk and melted butter. Mix 
thoroughly and bake in buttered pan. Turn out 
on platter and surround with a border of potato 
rosettes, made with a pastry tube. A cream 
parsley sauce may be served with this. 

Mrs. Wm. Kramp. 



221 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Cheese-Stuffed 4 large potatoes % C. grated pecans 

Potatoes % C. grated cheese 1 t. salt 

% C. milk 2 T. chopped parsley- 

Bake potatoes, cut in halves lengthwise. 
Remove inside, and mash, adding remaining 
ingredients. Beat until light, refill shells, leaving 
tops rough. Sprinkle with paprika and brown in 
hot oven. Mrs. Maude Gray. 



Cheese 
Fondue 



Cheese in 
Ramekins 



Corn Loaf 



1 C. hot milk 
1 T. butter 
salt 



% t. 



1 C. grated cheese 

1 C. bread crumbs 

2 eggs 

Vz C. chopped pecans 



Mix milk, butter, salt, cheese, and bread 
crumbs. Add the beaten egg yolks. Fold in the 
stiffly beaten egg whites and pecans. Bake in a 
greased baking dish placed in a pan of hot water 
in a moderate oven for 30 minutes. 

Winona Howard. 



V2 C. grated cheese 

1 C. bread crumbs 

2 T. chopped parsley 
2 T. lemon juice 



1 T. butter 

2 T. chopped onion 
1 t. salt 

% C. chopped pecans 



Add bread crumbs to grated cheese. Add onion 
cooked in butter and other ingredients. Milk may 
be used to moisten if mixture is too dry. Bake in 



buttered ramekins. 



Ruth E. Tait. 



1 T. chopped red pepper 

1 T. chopped green pepper 

2 eggs 
1 C. milk 

% C. chopped pecans 

Combine in order given, having eggs well 
beaten. Bake in buttered pan about 30 minutes. 

Eva hind. 



1 C. corn 
IV2 C. bread crumbs 
1 T. grated onion 
1 t. salt 
% t. paprika 



222 



Pecan Entrees 



% C. cooked Cream of It. salt Cereal Rolls 

Wheat y 2 t. thyme with Banana 

*4 C. bread crumbs 1 egg 

1 C. chopped pecans Bananas 

Combine ingredients, adding well beaten egg 
last. Shape in finger length rolls. Bake in but- 
tered pan. Peel bananas, cut in halves lengthwise 
and crosswise. Roll in flour, saute in butter, 
browning both sides. Serve on platter, alternating 
with rolls. Virginia Branfass. 



2 C. cottage cheese 2 T. butter Cottage 

3 C. bread crumbs % C. chopped pimentos Cheese Loaf 
1 t. salt 2 eggs 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Mix together cheese, bread crumbs, salt, and 
pimento. Add melted butter, well beaten eggs, 
and pecans. Bake in buttered casserole. Garnish 
with cut stuffed olives and pecans. 

Mrs. W. J. Thayer. 



6 T. butter 2 T. chopped parsley Croquettes 

6 T. flour 2 T. lemon juice with Tomato 

1 t. salt 1 C. bread crumbs Sauce 

IV2 C. milk 2 egg yolks 

1 C. grated pecans 

Make white sauce of first 4 ingredients. Cool. 
Add well beaten egg yolks and remaining ingre- 
dients. Mix thoroughly, shape in croquette molds, 
dip in egg white, cracker crumbs, and cook in deep 
fat. Drain on paper. 

Tomato Sauce 

2 T. butter Y 2 t. salt 

1 onion % t. mace 

2 T. flour 1 C. strained tomato 

Melt butter, add onion, brown, and add other 
ingredients, stirring constantly until thick. Serve 
on croquettes. Ree Roynane . 

223 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



2 C. corn % t. salt 

1 C. whole wheat bread 2 T. chopped green pepper 

crumbs Yz t. Vegex 

1 T. butter 2 eggs 

1 onion V2 C. milk 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Combine corn and bread crumbs. Add onion 
sauted in butter, dissolved Vegex, pepper, salt, 
beaten eggs, milk, and pecans. Bake in ramekins. 

Beulah Chamberlain. 



2 C. yellow cornmeal 1 egg 

2 T. butter 1 t. salt 

3 C. boiling water 1 C. grated pecans 

Add salt to boiling water. Stir in cornmeal, 
cook for 10 minutes, remove from heat, and add 
pecans, well beaten egg, and butter. Let stand 
24 hours. Slice, and cook in deep fat. Serve with 
maple syrup. Mrs. Geo. Stockfleth. 



1 can corn 1 T. flour 

1 C. milk l 1 /* t. salt 

2 eggs 1 C. chopped pecans 

Combine ingredients in order given, having 
eggs well beaten. Bake in buttered casserole, 
until firm. MrSt Jm Pm wheat. 



1 C. cottage cheese V2 t. sage 

1 T. milk Y2 t. salt 

1 T. chopped onion 1 C. bread crumbs 

1 T. butter Y2 C. chopped pecans 

1 egg white 

Combine cottage cheese with bread crumbs, 
sage, salt, chopped pecans, and milk. Add onion 
cooked in the butter. Form into croquettes and 
dip in beaten egg white, roll in cracker crumbs, 
and cook in deep fat. Mrs H Wm Donner. 



224 



Pecan Entrees 



2 C. cooked celery 2 T. flour Creamed 

y± C. chopped pecans 1 C. milk Celery in 

2 T. butter V 2 t. salt Croustades 

Vs t. paprika 

Drain cooked celery and combine with white 
sauce and pecans. Serve in croustades made by 
cutting stale bread into cubes and removing a 
square piece from center of each to form a case. 
Spread cases with melted butter and brown in a 
moderate oven. Garnish with parsley and pimento 
cut in fancy shapes. 

Mrs. F. N. Cossman. 



2 T. butter 1 t. salt Diced Potatoes 

1 T. flour 1 C. tomato soup with Tomato 

1 C. milk % C. chopped pecans Sauce 

% C. grated cheese 3 C. diced cooked potatoes 

Make white sauce of flour, butter, salt, and milk. 
Add grated cheese, remove from heat, add tomato 
soup and nuts. Pour over hot diced potatoes. 
Garnish with parsley. 

F. Brewster. 



2 T. butter 1 C. chopped pecans Cheese 

1 t. flour 3 eggs Souffle 

V 2 C. milk % t. salt 

1 C. grated cheese 1 t. paprika 

Melt butter in saucepan, add flour, and stir until 
smooth. Add milk, cheese, nuts, egg yolks, salt 
and paprika. Cook 3 minutes, stirring constantly. 
Let cool, fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour in 
buttered baking dish, set in pan of water, and 
bake 20 minutes. 

Mrs. L. L. Kerns. 



225 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Creole Sweet 6 sweet potatoes 3 T. butter 

Potatoes 1 t. salt 14 C. cream 

% t. nutmeg 14 C. grated pecans 

Marshmallows 

Bake potatoes, peel, and mash. Combine with 
other ingredients. Beat until light, place in but- 
tered baking dish, cover top with marshmallows, 
and bake until slightly brown. 

Feroe C. Remer. 



Creole Celery 2 C. bread crumbs 1 C. tomato juice 

1 C. chopped celery 2 T. chopped onion 

1 C. strained tomatoes 2 eggs 

4 T. chopped parsley 1 t. salt 

2 T. butter 1 C. chopped pecans 

1 lemon 

Toast whole wheat bread and grind fine. Add 
other ingredients, the egg well beaten. Bake in 
buttered baking dish for 30 minutes. Decorate 
with lemon. May be served with a sauce. 

Mrs. S. P. Ace. 



Escalloped 6 carrots (medium) y 2 C. cheese 

Carrots 1 C. cracker crumbs Milk 

1 C. chopped pecans 1 t. salt 

Vs t. paprika 

Cut carrots in rounds and cook in salted water. 
Put a layer of carrots in buttered baking dish, 
sprinkle with cracker crumbs, a layer of grated 
cheese, and a layer of chopped pecans. Repeat 
layers until dish is filled. Add salt and paprika 
and fill dish % full of milk. Bake in hot oven 
until well browned. 

Mrs. C. F. Chandler. 



226 



Pecan Entrees 



2% C. peas 

1% C. bread crumbs 

1 T. chopped onion 

2 T. butter 
1 egg 



1 T. parsley 
Vs t. paprika 
^4 t. nutmeg 

1 t. salt 

1 C. grated pecans 
Milk 



Green Pea 
Entree 



Puree peas and combine with other ingredients, 
adding sufficient milk to moisten. Bake in but- 
tered pan until brown. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Elizabeth C. Williams. 



1 medium sized cauliflower 1 C. milk Escalloped 
1 T. butter % C. bread crumbs Cauliflower 

1 C. cream y 2 C. chopped pecans 

1 t. salt 

Soak cauliflower, head down, in salted water. 
Tie in cheesecloth. Cook in boiling salted water 
to which milk has been added. Break into flower- 
ettes. Heat butter and cream, adding seasonings 
and pecans. Butter a baking dish and fill with 
layers of cauliflower, bread crumbs, and cream. 
Bake in hot oven. 

Theresa Lessmeister. 



1 t. salt Lentil 

1 t. poultry seasoning Patties 

2 eggs 

1 C. chopped pecans 
Milk 

Soak lentils overnight. Boil slowly until soft; 
mash, and cool. Add cracker crumbs, and onion 
sauted in butter, salt, seasoning, well beaten eggs, 
pecans, and milk to make mixture of consistency 
to form into patties. Saute in pan on top of stove 
or in oven. Serve with a piquant sauce. 

Edith V. Schliemann. 

227 



1 C. lentils 
1 C. cracker crumbs 

1 T. butter 

2 onions 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Escalloped 
Cabbage 



1 small cabbage 
4 T. butter 



1 t. salt 
1 C. milk 
V2 C. grated pecans 



Melt butter in skillet, add finely chopped cab- 
bage and salt. Cook slowly for 10 minutes with- 
out browning. Add milk, cook until almost dry, 
and add pecans. Garnish with pimento cut in 
fancy shapes. F Brewster. 

Marshmallow 3 C. mashed sweet potatoes 2 eggs 



Sweet 
Potatoes 



Escalloped 
Onions 



Glazed 

Sweet 

Potatoes 



1 C. milk 

2 T. sugar 



1 T. butter 
1 t. salt 
1 C. grated pecans 



Combine ingredients thoroughly. Bake in but- 
tered pan. Remove from oven, cover with marsh- 
mallows, and return to oven to brown. 

Mrs. H. S. Graham. 



8 medium sized onions 
V2 C. cracker crumbs 
1 C. chopped pecans 



1 T. butter 
1 T. flour 
1 C. milk 
V2 t. salt 



Boil onions in salted water. Make white sauce 
and add chopped pecans. Fill buttered baking dish 
with layers of onion and sauce. Sprinkle with but- 
tered cracker crumbs and bake. 

Agnes Volentine. 



6 sweet potatoes 4 T. water 

Vz C. brown sugar 2 T. butter 

V2 C. grated pecans 

Boil the sweet potatoes, peel, and cut in slices. 

Make a syrup by boiling the sugar, water, and 

butter together for 5 minutes. Lay the sliced 

potatoes in a buttered baking dish, pour the syrup 

over them, and sprinkle with pecans. Bake 1/2 

hour, basting frequently. TTr T 

Mrs. Wm. M. Jones. 

228 



Pecan Entrees 



1 C. lima beans 
% C. cracker crumbs 
6 T. milk 
1 t. salt 



V2 t. poultry seasoning 

1 T. lemon juice 

2 eggs 

1 C. chopped pecans 



Soak beans overnight. Cook in salted water 
until soft ; drain, and mash. Add cracker crumbs, 
milk, seasonings, lemon juice, beaten eggs, and 
pecans. Shape into cakes and pan brown in but- 
ter. Serve with sauted apple rings. 

Mrs. R. D. Carse. 



2 C. cooked lima beans 1 C. chopped pecans 

1 C. bread crumbs 1 t. salt 

2 esc£S V2 t. poultry seasoning 

6 T. milk 

Puree beans, add bread crumbs, beaten eggs, 
and remainder of ingredients. Shape into patties 
and saute in butter. May be served with or with- 
out a sauce. Dr. L. B. Miller. 



1 C. cracker crumbs 



V2 t. salt 



6 parsnips 
1 egg 

V2 C. grated pecans 

Boil or steam parsnips. Press through colander 
or sieve. Add other ingredients, form into patties, 
and saute in butter. Serve with parsley sauce. 

Beulah Chamberlain. 



2 eggs 
1% C. milk 

IV2 C. graham cracker 
crumbs 



1 C. chopped celery 

1 T. grated onion 

2 T. butter 
% C. chopped pecans 



1 t. salt 



Beat the eggs, add milk, cracker crumbs, celery, 
onion, melted butter, pecans, and salt. Bake in a 
buttered pan until well browned. Turn out on 
platter and surround with cream parsley sauce. 

Edith V. Schliemann. 



Lima Bean 
Cakes 



Lima Bean 
Patties 



Parsnip 
Patties 



Graham 
Cracker and 
Celery 
Entree 



229 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Mashed 6 sweet potatoes 1 T. butter 

Sweet 1 C. chopped pecans 1 t. salt 

Potatoes 1 C. chopped raisins 1 box marshmallows 

Boil sweet potatoes, remove skins, and mash. 
Add pecans, raisins, butter, and salt. Mix thor- 
oughly and put in buttered baking dish. Cover 
with marshmallows, and brown slightly in oven. 

Mrs. Philip Ehemann. 



Macaroni and 1 C. macaroni 
Cheese 1 C. grated cheese 

2 T. butter 

2 T. flour 



Mexican 
Bean Loaf 



1 t. salt 
1 C. milk 

V2 C. grated pecans 
Bread crumbs 



Panned Egg 
Plant 



Cook marcaroni until tender and rinse in cold 
water. Make white sauce with butter, flour, salt, 
and milk. Add grated cheese. Fill buttered dish 
with layers of macaroni, white sauce, and grated 
pecans. Cover with buttered bread crumbs. Bake 
in moderate oven. Alberta K. Winslow. 



1 C. beans 1 T. butter 

1 Mexican chili pod or 2 onions 
1 t. chili powder 1 t. salt 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Soak beans overnight. Remove seed from chili 
pod. Saute onions in butter. Combine with beans 
and chili, add pecans and salt. Put in bean pot, 
cover with boiling water, and cook slowly until 
done. MrSt Jm w. Kayser. 



1 egg plant 
1 egg 



V2 t. salt 
i/4 t. nutmeg 



C. grated pecans 

Soak sliced egg plant in cold water, remove, and 
dry. Dip in beaten egg and pecans to which sea- 
soning has been added. Saute in butter. 

Mrs. Joe Selbert. 



230 



Pecan Entrees 



1 onion 1 C. bread crumbs Mushroom 

2 T. butter V 2 t. salt Entree 
1 can mushrooms 1 C. chopped pecans 

V2 C. strained tomatoes Cream 

Cook onion in butter, add finely chopped mush- 
rooms, tomatoes, bread crumbs, nuts, and salt. 
Mix thoroughly, using cream or liquid from mush- 
rooms, as necessary. Bake in buttered casserole 
V2 hour. MrSa Dt St p ersont 



2 C. oatmeal V2 t. cinnamon Oatmeal Mush 

1 C. raisins 1 t. salt 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Steam oatmeal 4 hours. Add salt, raisins, and 
cinnamon. Steam 10 minutes, add pecans, turn 
into buttered pan and let stand 24 hours. Slice, 
and brown in buttered pan on top of stove or in 
oven. Serve with maple or corn syrup. 

Mrs. J. E. Hartman. 



8 onions % t. salt ^ u 

1 C. boiled rice 1 C. chopped pecans Stuffed with 

1 egg 1 C. tartar sauce Rice 

Boil whole onions in salted water. Remove 
outer skins and center. Save centers for sauce. 
Combine boiled rice, well beaten egg, nuts, and 
seasoning. Refill shells. Place in buttered baking 
dish, and bake 30 minutes. Serve with tartar 
sauce. 

Tartar Sauce 

1 T. lemon juice 1 T. Worcestershire Sauce 

U, t. salt % C. butter 

Onion pulp 

Heat lemon juice, salt, and Worcestershire 
Sauce over hot water. Melt butter and add with 
onion pulp to first mixture. 

Mrs. J. R. Towns. 



231 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Mexican Rice 1 C. milk 2 C. cooked rice 

Croquettes 2 T. flour 2 T. chopped pimentos 

2 T. butter y 2 C. chopped pecans 

1 t. salt 1 t. salt 

Make white sauce of first four ingredients. Add 

other materials. Shape into croquettes ,or balls, 

dip in egg white and bread crumbs, and cook in 

deep fat Mrs. E. L. Martin. 



Panned 2 C. mashed potatoes % t. paprika 

Potatoes 1 C. bread crumbs y 2 t. celery salt 

% C. milk 1 t. salt 

? f^gs V2 C. chopped pecans 

1 T. butter 4 T. butter 

Cook bread crumbs and milk to a paste and add 
to the potatoes. Add the butter, well beaten eggs, 
omitting one white, seasoning, and pecans. Shape 
into small cakes, dip in remaining egg white and 
crumbs, and chill for two hours. Place cakes in 
buttered pan and brown on top of stove or in oven. 

Alice Prive. 



Peas and 2 C. pea puree 4 T. flour 

Tomato Loaf 2 eggs 1 t. onion juice 

1 C. strained tomato 2 t. celery salt 

% C. cream 1 t. sage 

Y2 C. bread crumbs 1 t. salt 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Beat eggs, add to the puree, together with the 
other ingredients, adding the cream, salt, and 
pecans last. Bake in a buttered baking pan for 
30 minutes. Turn out on platter and garnish with 
a pimento cream sauce. 

Nellie Loomis. 

232 



Pecan Entrees 



6 tomatoes 2 T. butter Panned 

1 t. salt 1 C. sour cream Tomatoes 

Y2 C. flour y 2 C. grated pecans 

Cut tomatoes in half through stem, salt, and roll 
in flour. Melt butter in skillet, add tomatoes cut 
side down, and cook very slowly about 15 minutes. 
Add cream and nuts just before removing from 
heat. 

Mrs. Belle Lods Williams. 



2 C. mashed potato 1 t. onion juice Parsley 

1 egg 1 t. salt Potato 

2 T. parsley % t. nutmeg Croquettes 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Combine ingredients, shape into croquettes, dip 
in flour, egg white, and cracker crumbs. Cook in 
deep fat. 

Eula Phillips. 



4 parsnips 4 T. flour Parsnip-Rice 

2 eggs 1 t. salt Cakes 

1 C. cooked rice 1 C. grated pecans 

Boil or steam parsnips and put through a coarse 
sieve. Add beaten eggs and remainder of ingre- 
dients. Form into small cakes, thinning with 
milk if necessary. Bake in buttered pan until 
brown. Serve with tomato or celery sauce. 

Flo Onida Williamson. 



1V 2 C. peas 2 T. milk Patties of 

1 C. bread crumbs 1 T. butter Peas 

1 chopped onion 1 t. salt 

1 egg y 2 C. grated pecans 

Combine ingredients. Form into cakes, brown 
in buttered pan on top of stove or in oven. Serve 
with tomato sauce. 

Mrs. Delia Morris. 

233 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Peas and 2 C. mashed potatoes 1 T. chopped onion 

Potato C. cooked peas 1 t. salt 

Croquettes 1 egg % t. sage 

% C. chopped pecans 

Combine ingredients and form into balls. Dip 
in egg white, and bread crumbs. Cook in deep 
fat. 

Mrs. Catherine Mueller. 



Potato Puff 2 C. mashed potatoes 1 C. milk 

2 T. melted butter 1 t. salt 

2 eggs */i t. paprika 

1 C. grated pecans 

Beat potato and butter, add well beaten eggs, 
milk, seasoning, and grated pecans. Bake in but- 
tered baking dish until brown. 

Mrs. J. W. Kayser. 



Pineapple 

Sweet 

Potatoes 



6 sweet potatoes 

1 C. grated pineapple 

2 T. sugar 



2 T. butter 
1 C. chopped pecans 
Marshmallows 



Boil potatoes in salted water, remove skins, and 
mash. Add other ingredients. The mixture may- 
be thinned with pineapple juice if necessary. 
Bake in buttered baking dish, top with marsh- 
mallows, and brown. 

Gladys I. Tucker. 



Potato Hash 1 C. mashed potatoes 1 C. chopped pecans 

1 C. bread crumbs 4 T. butter 

1 t. salt 

Combine potatoes, bread crumbs, pecans, and 
salt. Melt butter in saucepan and pan brown 
potatoes, moistening slightly with water, and 
turning once. 

Mrs. C. L. Condrei. 

234 



Pecan Entrees 



4 large peppers 1 C. tomato juice Peppers 

2 T. melted butter 1 t. salt Stuffed with 

2 C. cooked rice % C. chopped pecans Rice 

Remove top and seeds from peppers and cook 
12 minutes in salted water. Combine other ingre- 
dients, and refill shells. Dot with butter, bake in 
buttered baking dish for 30 minutes in moderate 
oven. Garnish with pimento strips and serve in 
toast rings. 

Mrs. Mina Lowman. 



6 potatoes % C. grated cheese Potato 

2 T. butter 1 t. salt Balls 

V2 C. milk V2 C. grated pecans 

Boil potatoes, mash, add butter, hot milk, grated 
cheese, salt, and pecans. Beat until very light, 
shape into balls, dip in egg white and cracker 
crumbs. Place on buttered pan and brown in hot 
oven. Serve with sauce. 

Mrs. S. B. Connell. 



2 T. butter 1 C. green peas Platter of 

1 T. flour 1 C. grated pecans Vegetables 

1 C. milk 1 egg 

% C. chopped celery 1 T. onion juice 

2 C. whole wheat bread V2 t. sage 
crumbs 1 t. salt 

Make white sauce of first 3 ingredients and add 
chopped celery. Add other ingredients. Bake in 
an oval baking dish. Remove, and serve on 
platter surrounded with border of duchesse pota- 
toes, stuffed tomatoes, peppers, julienne carrots, 
peas and parsley. 

Mrs. E. H. Landry. 

235 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Potato Cakes 
with Peas 



1 C. mashed potatoes 2 T. chopped parsley 

1 C. bread crumbs 1 t. salt 

4 eggs 1 C. chopped pecans 

Combine ingredients, omitting the white of one 
egg. Mold into small cakes, dip in remaining egg 
white, and cracker crumbs. Place in buttered pan 
and bake in hot oven. Serve with green peas and 
tomato sauce. 

Mrs. L. Welwer. 



Potato 
Croquettes 



2 C. riced potatoes 



*4 C. cream 
1 t. salt 



% t. paprika 



% t. baking powder 
1 egg 
C. chopped pecans 



Mix ingredients, omitting egg white. Shape 
into croquettes, dip in egg white and bread 
crumbs. Cook in deep fat. Serve with cream of 
tomato sauce. 

Annie Bird. 



Potatoes on 4 large potatoes 2 T. chopped parsley 

the Half Shell 1 t. salt 1 T. butter 

V2 C. grated pecans 

Bake potatoes, cut in halves lengthwise without 
breaking skins. Remove inside and mash, adding 
seasoning and pecans. Refill shells, and brown in 
the oven. 

Mrs. C. M. Hitchcock. 



Potato Patties 2 C. mashed potato 1 T. butter 

% C. milk 1 t. salt 

1 egg V2 C. grated pecans 

Combine ingredients and beat until light. Form 
into small cakes, roll in bread crumbs, and bake 
in well buttered pan. 

236 



Pecan Entrees 



2 C. cooked red beans 1 chopped green pepper Red Bean 

2 C. bread crumbs 2 T. butter Loaf 

1 egg 1 t. salt 

1 C. chopped pecans Milk 

Melt butter, add bread crumbs, and remaining 
ingredients, adding sufficient milk to moisten. 
Bake in a pan or casserole. Serve with tomato 
sauce. 

Mrs. J. P. Wheat 



1 T. butter 1 t. salt Rice Balls 

1 T. flour y 2 C. grated cheese 

1 C. milk y 2 C. chopped pecans 

Cooked rice 

Make balls of rice, dip in egg white and bread 
crumbs. Cook in deep fat. Make sauce of remain- 
ing ingredients and serve with rice balls. 

E. Porter. 



2 C. cooked rice y 2 t. salt Rice and 

1 C. grated cheese 4 eggs Cheese 

V/s C. milk y 2 C. chopped pecans 

Mix the rice with the cheese and milk. Add 
salt, well beaten egg yolks, pecans, and stiffly 
beaten egg whites. Bake in a well buttered bak- 
ing dish for 25 minutes. 

Mrs. Wm. H. Martin. 



2 C. cooked rice 1 t. salt Rice Cakes 

3 T. butter 14 t. sage 
y 2 C. chopped pecans 1 egg 

Bread crumbs 

Combine ingredients, having egg well beaten. 
Use sufficient bread crumbs to form into patties. 
Bake in quick oven and serve with tomato sauce. 

Mrs. A. D. Ferguson. 

237 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Potato 
Topped Loaf 



Rice a 'la 
Carolina 



V 2 C. cooked rice 2 T. chopped green pepper 

%> C. bread crumbs 2 T. butter 

1 C. tomatoes 1 T. chopped parsley 

1 egg 1 t. salt 

V2 onion, chopped 1 C. grated pecans 

2 C. mashed potatoes 

Combine ingredients in order given, having egg 
well beaten. Place in buttered casserole, cover 
with mashed potatoes, dot with butter, and bake 
in slow oven. 

Mrs. T. R. Wellington. 



lYs C. rice 1 minced onion 

2 C. water 4 diced tomatoes 

1 C. diced celery % C. diced ripe olives 

1 chopped green pepper 2 t. salt 

% C. chopped pecans 

Wash rice. Let water come to a boil. Add rice 
and other ingredients except the pecans. Cook in 
double boiler until rice is soft. Add nuts and 
serve on platter garnished with red and green 



pepper strips. 



Lola Mace. 



Rice 

Croquettes 



Rice Patties 



2 C. cooked rice 
2 eggs 
1 t. salt 



*/i t. sage 



% t. thyme 
Bay leaf 
C. chopped pecans 



Mix ingredients thoroughly. Shape into cro- 
quettes, dip in egg white and bread crumbs and 
cook in deep fat. Serve on platter garnished with 
parsley and Creole Sauce. Mrs. C. E. Davies. 



1 C. grated pecans 

2 C. cold boiled rice 



1 egg 
1 t. salt 



Combine ingredients, shape into cakes, and 
saute in butter. Sprinkle with chopped parsley 
and serve with or without sauce. 

Mrs. L. B. Miller. 

238 



Pecan Entrees 



V2 C. chopped pecans 1 onion Rice Loaf 

V2 C. mashed potatoes 2% t. parsley 

Y2 C. cooked rice 2 T. bread crumbs 

1 grated lemon % t. paprika 

2 eggs 1 t. salt 

2 T. melted butter 

Combine ingredients in the above order, having 
eggs well beaten. Place in a baking dish and pour 
melted butter over the top. Bake 40 minutes. 

Mrs. Leo Schroeder. 



6 sweet potatoes 2 eggs Spiced Sweet 

2 T. butter 1 C. milk Potatoes 

V2 t. ginger 1 C. grated pecans 

Boil potatoes in salted water, peel, and mash. 
Add remaining ingredients, and bake in buttered 
baking dish until brown. 

Mrs. Wm. Harmon. 



1 C. sauer kraut 1 C. bread crumbs Sauer Kraut 

2 C. cold sliced potatoes % C. milk 
Y2 C. chopped pecans V2 t. salt 

Place alternate layers of potato, sauerkraut, 
bread crumbs, and nuts in buttered baking dish. 
Add milk and seasoning. Bake 30 minutes. 

Mrs. Sarah Alward. 



2 C. riced potatoes 3 T. cream Savory Potato 

1 t. salt 1 T. butter Croquettes 

1 small onion 1 egg 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Combine ingredients, shape into croquettes, dip 
in egg white and bread crumbs, and cook in deep 
fat. Serve with celery sauce. 

Mrs. H. Velander. 

239 



800 Proved Pegan Recipes 



Spanish 1 C. grated cheese V 2 C. chopped green pepper 

Cheese 1 C. bread crumbs 1 T. melted butter 

1 egg 1 onion 

V 2 t. salt V2 C. chopped pecans 

Add well beaten egg to cheese. Cook onion and 
pepper in butter. Add crumbs and stir until 
brown. Combine with first mixture. Moisten 
with milk. Bake in buttered pan. Serve with 
sauted tomatoes. 

Mrs. G. J. DeLitterest. 



Spinach Loaf 2 eggs 2 C. cooked spinach 

3 C. milk 4 T, melted butter 

3 C. rolled crackers 1 t. salt 

V2 C. grated pecans 

Beat the eggs, add the milk, crackers, and 
spinach. Stir in the melted butter and salt. Bake 
in a deep glass dish in a slow oven until fairly 
stiff (about 1 hour). 



Spanish Rice 



1 C. rice 

2 C. water 

4 large onions 
4 T. butter 
IV2 t. salt 



2 C. tomatoes 
1 C. pecans 

1 T. Worcestershire Sauce 
1 large green pepper or 
small bottle stuffed olives 



Boil rice in water for 15 minutes. Saute onions 
in butter and add to rice. Combine with other 
ingredients and bake slowly. 

Mrs. H. W. Donner. 



Spinach and 2 C. cooked spinach 1 egg 

Cheese Loaf 1 T. butter 1 C. grated cheese 

V 2 t. salt 1 C. grated pecans 

Cook spinach, chop, and add other ingredients. 
Bake in a buttered baking pan. Serve with a 
cheese cream sauce. Garnish with pimentos. 

Mrs. John N. McQuire. 



240 



Pecan Entrees 



4 large green peppers Y2 C. grated cheese Pecan 

1 C. cooked rice Y2 t. salt Pepper 

Y2 C. grated pecans Case 

Cut tops from peppers, remove inside, and 
allow peppers to stand in boiling water for 5 
minutes. Combine other ingredients and refill 
shells. Dot with butter, and bake in buttered pan, 
with small amount of water. Serve in toast rings, 
garnished with parsley and stuifed olives. 

Ella Mathews. 



4 large green peppers Y2 C. celery Steamed 

1 C. bread crumbs Y2 C. grated cheese Peppers 

3 hard cooked eggs 1 t. salt 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Cut tops from peppers, remove seeds and soak 
peppers in cold water. Combine other ingre- 
dients. Dry, and stuff shells, and steam 45 min- 
utes. Serve in toast rings. 

Alice H. Stewart. 



3 C. mashed potatoes V 2 t. salt Stuffed 

2 T. milk % t. onion Potato Loaf 

1 T. butter 1 egg white 

Combine ingredients, adding beaten egg white 
last. Reserve enough potato to cover top. Line 
buttered pan. Fill with following mixture and 
cover with potato top: 

% C. hot milk % C. chopped pecans 

% C. bread crumbs Y 2 t. salt 

1 egg yolk Ys t. paprika 

Pour hot milk over crumbs and cook in double 
boiler until thick. Cool, add beaten egg yolk, 
pecans, and seasoning. Bake in a hot oven until 
brown. 

Mrs. Henry E. Stetson. 

241 



800 Proved Pecan Eecipes 



Southern 
Candied 
Sweet 
Potatoes 



6 sweet potatoes 1 C. maple syrup 

3 T. butter y 2 C. chopped pecans 

Cook potatoes in salted water. Cut in halves 
lengthwise. Lay in buttered baking dish. Spread 
with butter, sprinkle with chopped pecans, and 
cover with maple syrup. Bake in a moderate 
oven, basting frequently. If preferred, pecans 
may be added just before serving. 

Myrtle Mischke. 



Sweet Potato 2 C. mashed sweet potatoes 2 eggs 

and Apple 1 T. butter V2 t. salt 

Puff 2 T. cream 1 C. stewed apples 

2 T. sugar V2 C. grated pecans 

Combine ingredients thoroughly. Bake in but- 
tered casserole. May be served hot or cold. 

Luna Huggins. 



Stuffed 1 C. grated cheese 2 T. butter 

Peppers 4 large green peppers 1 t. salt 

1 C. bread crumbs V2 C. milk 

1 T. grated onion V2 C. chopped pecans 

Remove stem end from peppers, and scrape out 
inside. Parboil peppers 2 minutes, drain and fill 
with mixture of remaining ingredients. Cover 
tops with grated cheese and bake in buttered pan 
20 minutes. R 0 xy Packer. 



Sweet Potato 2 C. mashed sweet potatoes 1 egg 
Croquettes 1 t. salt % C. chopped pecans 

2 T. butter Milk 

Combine ingredients, adding hot milk until of 
proper consistency to form into croquettes. Dip 
in egg white and crumbs, and cook in hot fat. 

Mrs. C. H. Cook. 

242 



Pecan Entrees 



1 head cabbage 1 t. salt Steamed 

2 T. butter 3 T. sugar Cabbage 
2 T. lemon juice V 2 C. pecans 

Shred cabbage and soak in cold water. Melt 
butter in a cooking vessel that can be tightly cov- 
ered. Add drained cabbage, lemon juice, salt, and 
sugar. Cover tightly and steam 1/2 hour. Add 
pecans before serving. Garnish with strips of 
red and green pepper. Mrs. R. E. Powers. 



4 large sweet potatoes 2 eggs Stuffed Sweet 

2 T. butter 2 T. sugar Potatoes 

V 2 C. milk Rind of 1 lemon 

% t. nutmeg % C. grated pecans 

Select well shaped potatoes of uniform size. 
Bake until slightly softened. Cut off tops and 
scrape out inside. Mash and add other ingre- 
dients. Refill skins and heat. 

Martha Schroeder. 



8 medium sized tomatoes 3 T. butter stuffed 
% C. cooked peas 1 t. salt Tomatoes 

1 C. bread crumbs % t. paprika 
1 egg 6 T. chopped pecans 

Cut slice from stem end of tomatoes and remove 
pulp. Cook pulp with peas, bread crumbs, egg, 
butter, and seasoning. Add pecans, and refill 
shells. Bake 30 minutes in hot oven. 

Mrs. G. L. Kendrick. 



6 sweet potatoes 4 T. cream Sweet Potato 

2 T. butter V2 C. ground pecans Cakes 

Cracker crumbs 

Boil in salted water, peel, mash, and add other 
ingredients. Shape into small cakes, roll in 
cracker crumbs, and bake in buttered pan until 
brown. 

Frances Galish. 

243 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Stuffed 4 small egg plants 1 T. butter 

Egg Plant V2 C. tomatoes 1 onion 

V2 C. bread crumbs V2 C. chopped pecans 

Cut egg plants in halves lengthwise, soak in cold 
water, and cook in boiling salted water. Remove 
pulp, leaving shells unbroken. Combine pulp with 
other ingredients. Refill shells, sprinkle with 
chopped onion, and bake 20 minutes. Serve with 
white sauce to which ^ C. grated pecans have 
been added. 

Beulah Chamberlain. 



Stuffed 1 small Hubbard squash 2 raw eggs 

Squash Salt V2 C. cooked macaroni 

1 C. cooked mashed beans 1 C. grated pecans 

1 C. bread crumbs % t. salt 

1 diced hard cooked egg V2 t. sage 

Peel squash, slice off top, scrape out seeds, and 
salt inside and out. Combine remaining ingre- 
dients, refill squash with mixture, put the top back 
on with toothpicks, and bake 1 hour. Serve hot 
with apple sauce. 

Mrs. R. S. Zinn. 



Stuffed 4 large potatoes 1 T. minced parsley- 

Potatoes 1 T. butter V 2 t. salt 

% C. grated pecans 1 egg white 

Bake potatoes, cut off tops, and scoop out potato, 
leaving skins unbroken. Mash and add butter, 
parsley, pecans, and salt. Add stiffly beaten egg 
white and beat until light. Refill shells, dot with 
butter, and brown in hot oven. 14 C. of milk or 
cream may be used in place of egg white. 

Marie Eulalie Moran. 



244 



Pecan Entrees 



8 Spanish onions 
1 C. bread crumbs 



V2 t. salt 



y 3 C. butter 

1 T. flour 

1 T. butter 

V2 t. salt 

1 C. milk 



1 egg 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Peel onions and boil whole in salted water. 
Cool, remove center from onions, leaving shell. 
Chop the centers. Combine with bread crumbs, 
butter and beaten egg. Make white sauce of the 
last four ingredients and combine with mixture. 
Add chopped pecans, stuff the onion shells, place 
in buttered pan, and bake in oven until brown. 

Dorothy Cooke. 



6 sweet potatoes 

1 T. sugar 

1 large apple 

% t. mace 



t. salt 
C. cream 

C. chopped pecans 
Marshmallows 
Whole pecans 



% 



Boil potatoes, adding sugar to water. When 
partly done, peel and slice. In buttered casserole 
place alternate layers of potatoes and apples, 
sprinkling with pecans and mace. Add cream, 
and bake. Remove from oven, cover with marsh- 
mallows, placing a whole pecan in the center of 
each. Brown in oven. 

Sadie D. Prather. 



Stuffed 
Onions 



Sweet Potato 
with Apple 



2 C. mashed sweet potatoes 1 C. grated cocoanut Sweet Potato 

1 egg V2 C. raisins Loaf 

V± C. milk V2 C. chopped pecans 

V2 C. melted butter 1 t. cinnamon 

6 marshmallows 

Combine ingredients, having egg well beaten. 
Place in buttered baking dish, arrange cut marsh- 
mallows over top or cover with meringue and bake 
in a slow oven 25 minutes. 

Nell Dooley. 

245 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Sweet Potato 6 sweet potatoes 
Puff X A C. cream 



Tomato 
Croquettes 



Sweet 
Potatoes 
in Ramekins 



2 T. butter 
1 t. cinnamon 
V2 C. chopped pecans 



Boil potatoes in salted water, mash, and add 

other ingredients. Bake in buttered baking dish 

until brown. _ _ TTr TTr _ _ 

Mrs. W. W. Howell 



2 tomatoes 

2 C. bread crumbs 

2 eggs 



1 t. onion juice 

1 t. salt 

2 C. grated pecans 



Combine ingredients, omitting one egg white. 
Shape into croquettes, dip in remaining egg white, 
then in bread crumbs, and cook in deep fat. 

Mrs. Wm. Kelley. 



6 sweet potatoes 
% C. milk 
V2 C. sugar 

1 T. butter 

1 t. salt 



% C. raisins 
Y2 C. chopped pecans 
% t. cinnamon 
% t. nutmeg 
Mayonnaise 



Cook potatoes until tender, drain, and mash. 
Beat in the milk, sugar, butter, salt, raisins, 
pecans, cinnamon and nutmeg. Put in buttered 
baking dish and bake 20 to 30 minutes. Remove 
from oven, cover with marshmallows, sprinkle 
with cinnamon, and return to oven until marsh- 
mallows soften. 

Mrs. E. A. Wells. 



Tomato Balls 2 C. bread crumbs 1 T. chopped onion 

2 C. cooked tomatoes 1 t. salt 

2 eggs 1 C. chopped pecans 

Combine bread crumbs with pecans, onion, salt, 
and beaten eggs. Form into small balls, place in 
buttered baking dish, cover with tomatoes, and 
bake 30 minutes. 

Icel Alward. 

246 



Pecan Entrees 



% C. butter % C. sugar Sweet Potato 

2 C. mashed sweet 1 egg with Raisins 

potatoes y 2 C. milk 

V2 C. cane syrup % C. chopped pecans 

Y2 t. allspice y 2 C. raisins 

V2 t. cinnamon % t. cloves 

Melt the butter in a skillet. Combine ingre- 
dients, adding beaten egg last. Pour the mixture 
into the hot pan with the butter, stirring until 
heated. Place the skillet in a moderate oven and 
bake until crusted around the edge and top. Turn 
under and let another crust form. Eepeat this 
twice, allowing the last crust to remain on the top 
and edges. Mrs c> A# Co(ypeT . 



2 C. cooked sweet potatoes V 2 C. raisins Sweet Potato 

1 t. salt V2 C. chopped pecans Souffle 

2 t. powdered sugar 2 egg whites 
2 T. cream IV2 T. butter 

Add salt, sugar and cream to potatoes. Beat 
thoroughly. Add pecans and chopped raisins. 
Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pile lightly in 
buttered baking dish, brush with melted butter, 
and bake in a pan of hot water until light and 
well browned. B.S.Leeds. 



l 1 /^ C. strained tomatoes 1 onion Tomato 

2 T. butter 2 T. chopped green pepper Rarebit 

2 T. flour V2 C. grated cheese 

1 t. salt 1 C. milk 

Ys t. paprika V2 G. chopped pecans 

Cook onion and pepper in butter. Add flour, 
seasoning, tomatoes, hot milk, and cheese. Add 
pecans just before removing from heat. Pour 
mixture over 4 slices of toast. Garnish with water 
cress. 

Ida R. Lindsay. 

247 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Tomato Loaf 1 C. chopped pecans 2 T. chopped onion 

with Cheese 1 T. butter 2 eggs 

Sauce 2 C. bread crumbs 1 C. cooked tomatoes 

V2 C. chopped celery 1 t. salt 

Cook pecans in butter until brown. Combine 
with other ingredients, beating eggs well. Bake 
in buttered baking dish 35 minutes. Serve with 
cheese sauce. 

Cheese Sauce 

2 T. butter V 2 t. salt 

2 T. flour y 2 C. grated cheese 

1 C. milk 

Make white sauce and add grated cheese just 
before removing from heat. 

Beulah Ricks. 



Tomato and 2 small onions 2 eggs 

Rice Loaf 4 T. butter 2 T. parsley 

1 C. cooked rice 1 t, salt 

2 C. tomatoes 1 t. Worcestershire Sauce 
1 C. bread crumbs y 2 C. chopped pecans 

Mashed potatoes 

Cook the onion in butter and add to rice and 
other ingredients, having eggs well beaten. Bake 
in a buttered baking dish with a covering of 
mashed potatoes. 

Mrs. W. Baumgartner. 



Devilled Eggs 4 eggs % t. Worcestershire Sauce 

1 T. butter 1 t. salt 

2 T. lemon juice 2 T. grated pecans 

Hard cook eggs, peel, cut in half lengthwise, 
remove yolks, and mash. Add other ingredients 
and refill whites. Garnish with parsley. 

Mrs. M. Carr. 

248 



Pecan Entrees 



2 C. tomatoes 
2 T. green pepper 
4 T. flour 
4 T. water 
% C. cheese 



1 t. salt 

1 C. boiling water 
V2 t. Vegex 

2 T. chopped onion 
V2 C. chopped pecans 

Toast 



Tomato Gum' 



Heat tomatoes. Add paste of flour and water, 
green pepper, salt, and grated cheese. Cook 
slightly. Add Vegex to boiling water and com- 
bine with tomato mixture. Simmer. Butter toast 
and sprinkle with chopped onions and pecans, 
pour tomato mixture over toast and garnish with 
olives and parsley. 

Mrs. Sarah Miller. 



4 hard cooked eggs 1 T. chopped pickle Stuffed Eggs 

V2 t. chopped onion 1 T. lemon juice 

2 T. grated pecans 

Remove shell. Cut eggs in halves lengthwise, 
remove yolks, and mash. Add other ingredients. 
Refill whites, and put halves together, holding 
them in place with toothpicks. 

Mrs. Lucy K. Wilkes. 



3 eggs 1 c. milk 

1 T. melted butter y 2 t. salt 

1 T. flour 6 slices of bread 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Hard cook eggs. Make a white sauce of the 
butter, flour, milk, and salt. Toast bread and 
arrange on a platter. Peel the eggs and slice on 
the toast. Add pecans to white sauce and pour 
over eggs and toast. 

Mrs. A. M. Hill 

249 



Creamed 
Eggs on 
Toast 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Vegetable 6 large carrots 2 T. butter 

Macedoine 4 large potatoes 1 t. salt 

1 C. milk y 2 C. grated pecans 

2 T. flour Bread crumbs 

Boil carrots until partly done. Peel, and cut 
into cubes. Peel and cut potatoes into cubes. 
Make white sauce of remaining ingredients, add- 
ing grated pecans just before removing from 
heat. Mix carrots and potatoes, arrange in but- 
tered casserole in layers, alternating with white 
sauce. Cover with bread crumbs and brown in 
the oven. D'Nola Freeman. 



Green Pepper 3 eggs 1 t. chopped onion 

Omelet 1 T. milk 1 T. chopped green pepper 

1 t. salt *4 C. grated pecans 

Separate eggs, beat yolks until creamy. Add 
salt, onion, and pepper. Fold in stiffly beaten 
whites, turn into buttered omelet pan. Cook over 
slow heat until set. Place in hot oven for four 
minutes. Turn out on platter, cover with pecans, 
fold over, and garnish with parsley. 

Anna Caldwell. 



Omelet 4 eggs 1 T. butter 

4 T. warm water 4 T. grated pecans 

V2 t. salt 

Separate eggs, beat yolks slightly, and add 
water and salt. Beat whites stiff and combine 
with yolks. Melt butter in omelet pan, pour in 
omelet, lower heat, and cook very slowly until set. 
Put in hot oven until firm, sprinkle with grated 
cheese and turn out on platter. 

Irene Hess. 



250 



Pecan Entrees 



f f2Z s ... % C. grated cheese Golden Rod 

1 y- m , llk V2 C. grated pecans Omelet 

% t. salt 2 T. butter 

Sauce 

2 C. cooked tomatoes 2 T. chopped parsley 

2 T. chopped onion 2 T. chopped green pepper 

Separate eggs, beat whites until stiff. Add 
yolks, beat slightly and add milk and salt. Turn 
into buttered omelet pan, cook over slow heat 
until set, place in hot oven until firm. Turn out 
on hot platter, with grated cheese and pecans in 
between. Serve with sauce. Cook onion, parsley 
and pepper in butter, add tomatoes, and pour over 
omelet. Garnish with parsley. 

Maude Lundin. 



I m vermicelli 1 c. bread crumbs Vermicelli 

3 T. butter 1 T. chopped parsley Loaf 

3 small onions y 2 t. poultry seasoning 

1 egg 1 t. salt 

V2 C. grated pecans 

Cook vermicelli in boiling water until tender 
and rinse in cold water. Saute onions in butter 
and add to vermicelli. Add well beaten egg, 
bread # crumbs, parsley, seasoning, and pecans. 
Bake in buttered pan in moderate oven 1 hour. 
Serve with brown sauce. 

Brown Sauce 

2 T. butter 14 t, salt 

1 t. chopped onion 1 C. water 

3 T. flour 1 t. Vegex 

Cook onion in butter, add flour and salt. Add 
water m which Vegex has been dissolved. Cook 
thoroughly and strain. 

Bertha G. MacFadden. 

251 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Eggs in Nests 4 eggs % t. paprika 

2 C. toasted crumbs 1 T. butter 

2 T. melted butter 2 T. flour 

V 2 t. salt 1 C. milk 

V2 C. chopped olives V2 t. salt 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Hard cook eggs, and remove yolks. Chop 
whites, add other ingredients, and combine with 
white sauce made from the last five ingredients. 
Put in buttered ramekins, make depressions in 
centers for egg yolks, and heat in oven. 

Mrs. Lucy Wakefield. 



Tomato and 

Cheese 

Omelet 



2 T. butter 
2 T. chopped onion 
2 T. chopped parsley 
V2 t. salt 
IV2 C. cooked tomatoes 



1 T. butter 
3 eggs 
V2 t. salt 
3 T. water 
6 T. grated cheese 



% C. grated pecans 

Melt 2 T. butter in skillet. Add onion, parsley, 
salt, and tomatoes. Simmer 15 minutes. Sepa- 
rate eggs, beat whites stiff, add yolks, water, and 
salt. Put in buttered omelet pan and cook over 
slow heat until set. Place in hot oven till firm. 
Remove to platter, sprinkle with grated cheese 
and pecans, spread with part of tomato mixture, 
fold over, and cover with remainder of mixture. 

D. A. Simmerman. 



252 



CHAPTER X 



PECAN PIES AND PASTRIES 

PIES 

DUMPLINGS 
PASTRIES 



"Most men are bet- 
ter judges of good 
pie, than of finely 
embroidered table 
linen." 



PECAN AND COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE 




CHAPTER X 



Pecan Pies and Pastries 

Think of the best pie or pastry you ever tasted ! Why should 

They be 

Think of it so hard that you can feel the crackle hard to 
of its flaky crust between your teeth, your mouth Dl ^ est? 
watering for more of the filling that seemed food 
fit for the gods. 

What is that favorite pie of yours ? Is it the 
Apple Strudel (or Apple Cake) of Pennsylvania 
and lower New York, with freshly sliced apples 
laid carefully on flaky crust, coated with sugar 
and cinnamon and with a rich custard filling every 
crevice ? 

Is it the fresh peach pie, or cherry pie of the Every 
fruit belts ; the blackberry or huckleberry of mid- has its 
summer, or the cranberry pie of the Thanksgiving pf™* 1 ** 5 
and Christmas season? 

Do you share the New Englander's love for 
squash pie or "pumpkin" pie ; or do you, with some 
southerners, class those pies, along with the 
Jerseyman's white potato custard, as only poor 
imitations of that southern delicacy — spicy, zesty 
sweet potato pie? 

255 



Did you ever taste pecan sweet potato custard? 

Are you like the man from the middle states 
who said that he would turn vegetarian if it 
weren't that he would have to do without mince 
pie, "because every one knows that nothing like 
mince pie can be made without meat and suet." 
Marvel of marvels, it is possible to make a pie 
that would woo even the strongest advocate of 
mince pie away from his first love, a pie that 
contains no suet, no meat, that requires no whisky 
nor other alcohol to aid digestion and give it zest ; 
yet which is made from Nature's selected fruit 
plus Nature's finest meat, the meats of the paper 
shell pecan. 

Try this pecan raisin pie, and the other pecan 
pies and pastries in this chapter, and notice how 
easy it is to get hubby home in time for dinner. 
For, despite the talk about pies and pastries being 
difficult to digest, they are for some reason the 
average American man's best answer to the ques- 
tion, "What shall we have for dessert?" 

A Few General Reminders 

Pastry flour* and best quality butter, or equal 
quantities of butter and a vegetable fat, make 
best pastry. Combine by cutting fat with two 
knives into sifted flour, to which salt has been 
added, until the mixture resembles coarse meal. 
Add cold water slowly until the mass adheres 

*See note on page 258 
256 



together, turn out on slightly floured board, cut 
off amount required for one crust, and roll lightly 
and in one direction only, until of desired thinness. 
Have ingredients cold, work lightly and rapidly 
with minimum amount of manipulation. 

Keep in covered dish in refrigerator if not all 
used immediately. 

If cooked filling is to be used, bake crust first 
by covering inverted pie pan with pastry, prick- 
ing with fork to allow escape of steam. 

If filling is uncooked, glaze bottom crust with 
beaten egg white diluted with one tablespoon of 
water, to prevent heaviness. Bake 30 to 45 min- 
utes in hot oven, using temperatures as given in 
standard temperature chart for different varieties 
of pies. 

Meringues should be made from chilled egg 
whites beaten on platter with egg whip or egg 
whisk until dish can be inverted without mixture 
falling off. Mix sugar and cream of tartar in 
proportion of two tablespoons sugar and one- 
eighth teaspoon cream of tartar for each egg white 
and add to egg whites, slowly beating in from 
below. Bake 15 minutes in cool oven. 



257 



Plain Pastry 

1V 2 C. pastry flour* % C. butter 

V 2 t. salt % C. vegetable fat 

i/4 C. (approx.) ice water 

Have ingredients cold. Sift salt and flour, cut 
in shortening with two knives. Add water slowly 
until mixture sticks together. Turn out on floured 
board and roll lightly on one side and in one 
direction only. Use ungreased pie plate — glass 
pie plates are preferred by many. 

*One objection to whole wheat flour 
for pie crust comes from the fact that 
the particles of bran in it make it very 
difficult to roll out and handle, without 
pulling the crust apart. 



258 



Pecan Pies and Pastry 



4 apples V 2 C. pecans Apple and 

% C. water Grated rind of 1 lemon Raisin Pie 

V2 C. sugar 1 T. lemon juice 

1 C. raisins 1 t. butter 

Cut apples into eighths, and cook with water 
and sugar until transparent. Drain, add raisins, 
pecans, lemon, and butter. Bake in a pastry shell 
with strips of pastry across the top. 

Mary Lemos. 



1 egg 2 T. butter Butterscotch 

1 C. brown sugar % t. salt Pie 

3 T. flour 1 t. vanilla 

1 C. milk 1 C. chopped pecans 

3 T. water Powdered sugar 

Combine egg yolk, sugar, flour, milk, water, 
butter, salt, and vanilla. Cook in double boiler 
until thick. Add pecans and pour in pie crust. 
Make meringue of egg white and powdered sugar 
and spread on top of pie. Brown in oven. 

Mrs. Paul Wagner. 



1 C. buttermilk 1 t. cloves Buttermilk 

1 C. sugar 1 t. cinnamon Pie 

2 egg yolks V 2 C. raisins 

1 T. butter % C. chopped pecans 

1 T. lemon juice 2 T. flour 

Combine ingredients and cook in double boiler 
until thick. Pour in baked crust, cover with 
meringue, and brown in oven. 

Meringue 

2 egg whites 2 T. sugar 

% t. vanilla 

Add sugar and vanilla to stiffly beaten egg 
whites. 

Mrs. E. T. Boynton. 

259 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Apple Pie 



4 sour apples Y% C. sugar 

3 eggs % C. chopped pecans 

Ys C. butter % t. nutmeg 

Cook the apples until soft. Rub through colan- 
der. Add beaten eggs, butter, sugar, pecans, and 
nutmeg. Bake between two crusts. 

Frances Reynolds. 



Apple 
Dumplings 



4 apples 
Y2 C. sugar 
Y2 t. cinnamon 



1 C. dates or prunes 
Y2 C. chopped pecans 

2 T. sugar 
Pastry 



Pare and core apples. Sprinkle with sugar and 
cinnamon and fill with fruit. Cut pastry in 6 
inch squares. Wrap each apple, dip in egg and 
roll in pecans and sugar. Bake, and serve with 
cream. Grace H. Thornton. 



Blueberry 
Pie 



1 C. sugar 

1 t. flour 

2 eggs 



3 C. blueberries 
1 C. grated pecans 
1 T. powdered sugar 
% t. vanilla 



Combine sugar, flour, and egg yolks. Add blue- 
berries, and pecans, and pour in an unbaked 
pastry shell. Dot with butter and bake. Cover 
with meringue made from the stiffly beaten egg 
whites, sugar, and vanilla. Brown in hot oven. 

Guarner Gray Jones. 



Banana 
Cream Pie 



Y2 C. sugar 
4V 2 t. flour 

Ys t. salt 
iy 2 C. milk 



2 eggs 
Y2 t. vanilla 

2 bananas 
Ys C. chopped pecans 



Cook first four ingredients in double boiler until 
thick and creamy. Pour into slightly beaten egg 



260 



Pecan Pies and Pastry 



yolks and return to fire for a moment. Remove 
and add vanilla. Slice bananas in a baked shell. 
Cool the cream and pour over the bananas. 
Sprinkle pecans over the cream and cover with a 
meringue. Brown in oven. 

Mrs. T. V. Baird. 



6 apples V2 C. dates Apple and 

% C. sugar V2 C. chopped pecans Date Pie 

% C. water Butter 

Pare, core, and halve the apples. Cook sugar 
and water to a syrup. Cook apples in syrup until 
transparent. Wash, stone, and chop dates. Line 
a pie plate with paste, put in a layer of dates and 
pecans. Cover with halves of apples, then the 
rest of dates and pecans. Add remaining syrup, 
dot with butter, cover with a top crust, and bake 
in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. J. S. Robb. 



IY2 C. flour 6 T. shortening Cherry Pie 

V2 t. salt 4 C. cherries 

3 t. baking powder *4 C. grated cheese 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Sift dry ingredients together. Cut in shorten- 
ing and add enough water to make a stiff dough. 
Roll out very thin on a well floured board. Line 
patty pans with pastry. Bake in a hot oven 15 
minutes. Fill with cherries, cheese, and nuts, and 
cover with hot syrup. 

Syrup 

Y2 C. sugar 2 C. boiling water 

1/2 C. cherry juice . 1 T. cornstarch 

Combine ingredients and cook until thick, stir- 
ring constantly. Pour over the tarts. Serve hot 
or cold. Mrs. Pearl Oleslager. 



261 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Cheese 1 C. flour % C. butter 

Straws 1 t. salt y 2 C. grated pecans 

1 C. grated cheese Milk 

Mix and sift flour and salt. Add cheese, cut in 
butter, add pecans and enough milk to make mix- 
ture of the consistency to roll. Roll out, cut in 
strips, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. E. J. Phelps. 



Chocolate 9 T. grated sweet chocolate % C. grated pecans 

Pie 2 C. milk 1 T. butter 

3 T. sugar 2 T. sugar 

2 T. cornstarch 1 t. orange juice 

2 eggs 2 T. grated pecans 

Melt chocolate over hot water. Pour scalded 
milk over melted chocolate, add sugar and bring 
to a boil. Add moistened cornstarch, well beaten 
yolks of eggs, pecans, and butter. Cook for 2 min- 
utes. Pour the custard in an unbaked pie crust 
and bake 15 minutes. Beat the egg whites until 
stiff, add sugar, orange juice and grated pecans. 
Cover pie with meringue and brown in oven. 

Eleanor Moran. 



Cranberry % C. chopped raisins 1 T. flour 

Pie 1 C. chopped apples V2 t. cinnamon 

1 C. chopped cranberries l 1 /^ C. sugar 
Ys C. chopped pecans Butter 

1 T. hot water 

Put a small amount of hot water over the 
raisins and let steam for 2 or 3 minutes. Then add 
to apples, cranberries, and pecans. Put the mix- 
ture in a pie crust. Mix flour, cinnamon and 
sugar. Scatter bits of butter generously over the 
fruit, sprinkle over the sugar mixture. Add hot 
water, cover with an upper crust and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

Mrs. M. M. Rose. 



262 



Pecan Pies and Pastry 



1 C. cooked carrots % t. mace Carrot Pie 

% C. brown sugar % t. nutmeg 

1 egg % t. salt 

1 C. milk V2 t. vanilla 

% t. cinnamon V2 T. butter 

% C. chopped pecans 

Put carrots through colander, and add remain- 
ing ingredients, having the egg well beaten. Bake 
in a pastry shell until set. When cold, top with 
whipped cream or ice cream. 

Mrs. Fred Whitney. 



V 2 C. butter 3 eggs Chess Pie 

1 C. brown sugar V2 T. thick cream 

V2 C. grated pecans 

Cream butter and sugar, add well beaten egg 
yolks, whipped cream, and pecans. Cover with a 
meringue made from the egg whites, and bake in a 
pastry shell. 

Irene F. Grover. 



Juice and grated rind 5 T. sugar Chiffon ^ 

of 1 lemon 1 T. water Lemon Pie 

5 T. water 2 T. grated pecans 

3 eggs 6 T. powdered sugar 

Add lemon juice and grated rind to water and 
boil. Beat egg yolks well and add 5 T. sugar and 
1 T. water. Stir boiling lemon juice and water 
slowly into egg yolks. Return to double boiler and 
cook until thick. Cool. Beat 2 egg whites very 
stiff and add 4 T. powdered sugar. Fold into other 
mixture and pour into baked crust. Brown 
slightly in oven, remove and add meringue made 
from remaining egg white, sugar, and pecans. 
Return to oven to brown slightly. 

Mrs. Hannah Breckenridge. 



263 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Cocoanut 3 eggs 2 C. milk 

Custard Pie % C. sugar % t. salt 

1 T. melted butter 1 can cocoanut 

IV2 T. grated pecans 

Beat the eggs. Gradually add sugar, butter, 
milk, salt, and cocoanut. Pour into a pie shell and 
bake in a moderate oven. 



Fruit Butter 2 eggs y 2 C. chopped pecans 

Pie 1 C. fruit butter y 2 C. milk 

1 T. sugar 

Beat yolks of eggs and add fruit butter, pecans 
and milk. Bake in a pastry shell. When done, 
cover with a meringue made of the stiffly beaten 
egg whites and sugar. Brown in oven. 

Emma J. Dunham. 



Custard Pie 2 C. cream % t. salt 

2 eggs 1 t. vanilla 

J /4 C. sugar 14 C. chopped pecans 

Scald cream and pour over slightly beaten eggs. 
Add remaining ingredients, and pour mixture into 
unbaked pie crust. Bake. 

Anita Knabe. 



. 1 C. chopped figs Grated rind and juice 

Pastries y 2 C. sugar of 1 lemon 

% C. chopped pecans 1 T. orange juice 

1 T. flour 1 t. melted butter 

Mix ingredients and beat well. Cut pastry in 
4 inch squares, put a T. of the mixture on V2 of 
each square, fold the other half over, and press 
the edges together. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Marie Eulalie Moran. 



264 



Pecan Pies and Pastry 



1 C. dates 1 T. flour Date Pie 

1 C. milk 2 T. sugar 

2 eggs 1 T. butter 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Chop dates, cover with water, and cook in 
double boiler until soft. Rub through a coarse 
strainer. Add milk, well beaten egg yolks, flour, 
sugar, melted butter, and pecans. Pour in a pie 
crust and bake 20 to 25 minutes in a moderate 
oven. Cover with a meringue made from the egg 
whites and 2 T. sugar. Brown in oven. 

Clara H. Fenton. 



2 eggs % t. nutmeg Date Spice 

% C. sugar 14 t. allspice Pie 

1 C. sour cream % t. cloves 

V2 T. bread crumbs y 2 C. dates 

% t. salt y 2 C. chopped pecans 

1 t. cinnamon y 2 C. cocoanut 

Beat eggs well. Add sugar, cream, bread 
crumbs, salt, spices, chopped dates, pecans, and 
cocoanut. Pour into a pie crust, sprinkle top with 
cocoanut and bake in a slow oven. 

Mrs. J. B. Porter, 



1 pt. heavy cream y 2 C. candied cherries Chantilly 
% C. sugar 6 dates Tarts 

2 t. vanilla 3 slices candied pineapple 
% t. salt 1 C. chopped pecans 

Pastry baskets 

Chill the cream and whip. Add sugar, vanilla, 
salt, chopped fruit, and pecans. Make baskets of 
plain pastry over large muffin tins. Braid 3 strips 
of pastry for handles and shape over custard cups. 
Fill pastry baskets with the cream and garnish 
with whole candied cherries. 

Reba A. Hobbs. 



265 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Mince Pie I 



2 C. chopped tart apples 
V2 C. raspberry preserves 

1 C. chopped pecans 
V2 C. raisins 
V2 t. cinnamon 



Y2 t. allspice 
V2 t. salt 

% C. brown sugar 
2 T. butter 
% C. lemon juice 



Cook ingredients together slowly for 1 hour, 
adding butter and lemon juice during last 5 min- 
utes of cooking. Bake between two crusts. 

Mrs. C. Klein. 



Mince Pie II 1 C. chopped tart apples V2 t. cinnamon 

V2 C. raisins % t. cloves 

% C. sugar % t. nutmeg 

% C. chopped pecans % t. salt 

V2 C. sour cherries 

Combine ingredients and bake between two 
crusts. 

Mrs. J. G. Gilbert. 



Cream Pie 



% C. sugar 

% C. flour 

% t. salt 

V2 C. cold milk 



2 C. hot milk 
2 eggs 

1 C. chopped pecans 



V2 t. vanilla 



2 T. powdered sugar 



Mix sugar, flour, salt, and cold milk until 
smooth. Add to hot milk, stirring constantly until 
mixture thickens. Cook in double boiler 20 min- 
utes. Add beaten egg yolks and cook 2 minutes. 
Add pecans and vanilla and pour into baked crust. 
Mix stiffly beaten egg whites with powdered sugar 
and spread over top. Sprinkle with pecans and 
brown in oven. 

Mrs. Grace Roop. 

266 



Pecan Pies and Pastry 



1 small can shredded 1 C. sugar Pineapple 

pineapple % t. salt Meringue Pie 

3 T. cornstarch 2 egg yolks 

% C. water 1 T. Crisco 

1 lemon, rind and juice V 2 C. pecans 

Put pineapple in double boiler. Mix cornstarch 
with water. Add to pineapple and stir until thick. 
Add grated lemon rind, sugar, and salt. Cover, 
cook 15 minutes. Beat egg yolks light, add to pine- 
apple. Add Crisco and lemon juice. Cook about 
2 minutes longer. Cool. Turn into baked shell, 
cover with 

Meringue 

Chill 2 egg whites. Beat until dry and stiff. 
Beat in 4 T. sugar. Spread over pie. Return to 
oven to brown. 



1 C. brown sugar iy 2 C. cooked pumpkin Pumpkin Pie 

V2 t. salt 3 eggs 

1 t. ginger 2^4 . C. milk 

1 t. cinnamon y 2 C. grated pecans 

1 T. melted butter 

Mix sugar, salt, and spice. Add pumpkin, eggs, 
milk, pecans, and butter. Pour into an uncooked 
pastry shell and bake slowly 1 hour. 

Sadie G. Ragsdale. 



V 2 C. raisins V 2 egg Fruit Pie 

% C. water y 2 t. flour 

V 2 C. sugar 1 C. chopped pineapple 

% C. chopped pecans 

Cook raisins in water until tender. Add other 
ingredients, stirring carefully until the mixture is 
thoroughly cooked through. Pour in a pastry 
shell, cover with top crust, and bake. 

Mrs. Frank P. Davis. 

267 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Grape Fruit 1 C. sugar l 1 ^ C. boiling water 

Meringue Pie 5 T. cornstarch X A t. salt 

% C. grapefruit pulp and 2 egg yolks 

juice Grated rind of 1 orange 

V2 C. grated pecans 

Mix sugar, cornstarch, and part of grapefruit 
pulp and juice. Add boiling water and salt. Stir 
until thick and smooth. Cook 10 minutes more in 
double boiler, then add rest of grapefruit. Beat 
yolks of eggs with orange rind and add to corn- 
starch mixture. Cook 2 minutes. Add grated 
pecans. Remove, and pour into baked crust. 
Cover with meringue and brown slowly. 



Cheese Strips % C. grated cheese 2 T. flour 

1 T. butter % t. paprika 

2 T. milk % t. salt 

2 T. grated pecans 

Cream cheese and butter. Add milk, and mixed 
and sifted dry ingredients. Knead till smooth. 
Roll thin and cut into strips 6 inches long and 1 
inch wide. Bake on a buttered sheet in a hot oven 
until brown. 

Miss Winona Howard. 



Mexican 1 C. sugar 2 eggs 

Praline Pie Y2 C. boiling water 1 t. vanilla 

% C. flour % t. salt 

IV2 C. orange juice 1 C. chopped pecans 

1 T. butter 2 T. powdered sugar 

Melt sugar and cook until a dark brown. Add 
water and cook until sugar is dissolved. Add 
flour, orange juice, butter, and beaten egg yolks, 
and cook until thick. Add vanilla, salt, and pecans. 
Pour into baked pastry shells. Cover with a 
meringue made of egg whites and powdered sugar. 

Myrtle Mischke. 

268 



Pecan Pies and Pastry 



1 egg y 2 C. sugar Pumpkin 

IV2 C. cooked pumpkin V2 t. cinnamon Meringue Pie 

1 C. milk V2 t. nutmeg 

V2 t. salt 

Beat egg and add remaining ingredients. Mix 
well and pour in unbaked pie crust. Bake. When 
cold, and ready to serve, top with the following : 

1 pt. whipped cream V2 C. cubed marshmallows 

Y2 C. diced pineapple % C. chopped pecans 

To the whipped cream add pineapple, marsh- 
mallows, and pecans. Mix together, and serve 
on pie. 

Mrs. G. E. Canten. 



1 C. plums 2 egg whites Plum Pie 

1 C. sugar % t. salt 

1 egg yolk y 2 C. sugar 

y 2 C. chopped pecans % t. vanilla 

Combine chopped plums with sugar, egg yolk, 
and pecans. Bake in a baked pastry shell for 10 
minutes in a very slow oven. Cover with meringue 
made of stiffly beaten egg whites, salt, sugar, and 
vanilla. Brown in oven. 

Antoinette E. Ford. 



Sliced peaches Seeded grapes Fresh Fruit 

Sliced pears V 2 C. sugar Pie 

Plums 1 T. butter 

V 2 C. grated pecans 

Line a deep pastry dish with crust. Fill with 
pared and sliced peaches, pears, plums, seeded 
grapes, and sugar. Dot with butter. Bake until 
fruit is tender. When cool, cover with a meringue 
into which the pecans have been beaten. Brown 
in oven. 

Myrtie H. Cover. 



269 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Maple 2 eggs V2 t. salt 

Custard 2 C. milk ^4 C. maple syrup 

Pie V2 C. chopped pecans 

Beat the eggs. Add remaining ingredients and 
pour in pie shell and bake. 

Mrs. Geo. Johnson. 



Fruit 1 C. raisins V2 C. chopped pecans 

Pastries V2 C. dates V2 C. sugar 

4 T. lemon juice 

Chop fruit and pecans, add sugar and lemon 
juice. Cut pastry in squares. Put a tablespoon 
of the mixture on each square. Wet edges, fold 
over to form triangles, prick holes with fork on 
upper side, and bake in hot oven. 

Grace Thornton. 



Molasses Pie 



C. sugar 
2 T. butter 
2 eggs 
2 T. flour 



^4 t. salt 

1 t. almond extract 
1 C. white Karo syrup 
IV2 C. chopped pecans 



Cream butter and sugar, add beaten eggs, flour, 
salt, extract, and syrup. Stir well. Add pecans, 
pour in a crust and bake % hour in a moderate 
oven. 

Mrs. Gus. O. Selbensen. 



Lemon Pie V2 C. butter 1 T. lemon juice 

1 C. sugar 1 T. orange juice 

3 eggs 1 C. chopped pecans 

2 T. sugar 

Cream butter and sugar, add egg yolks one at a 
time, fruit juice, pecans, and 2 stiffly beaten egg 

270 



Pecan Pies and Pastry 



whites. Pour in an unbaked crust and bake in a 
moderate oven 30 minutes. Cover with meringue 
made with remaining egg white and 2 T. sugar, 
and return to oven to brown. 

Fedora Creutzman. 



1 C. sugar 3 eggs Pineapple Pie 

2 T. cornstarch 1 T. butter 

1 C. cream 1 C. shredded pineapple 

% C. chopped pecans 

Cream the sugar and cornstarch. Add cream, 
eggs, melted butter, and pineapple. Cook in a 
double boiler until thick. Add pineapple juice and 
pecans. Pour in a baked crust and cover with 
whipped cream or meringue. 

Mrs. Louis E. Raisler. 



1 C. cooked rhubarb 1 C. sugar Rhubarb Pie 

2 T. flour 2 egg yolks 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Cook the rhubarb, flour, sugar, and egg yolks 
until thick. Stir in the pecans and pour into a 
baked crust. Cover with meringue and bake until 
brown. 

Mrs. N. H. Ragland. 



V2 C. butter Cinnamon Spiced Cheese 

1 cream cheese Sugar Straws 

1 C. flour 2 C. chopped pecans 

Knead butter, cheese and flour together. Roll 
out thin and sprinkle with cinnamon, sugar, and 
nuts. Fold over several times, cut into pieces 
about l 1 /^ inches wide and bake in floured pan. 

Mrs. Julius Peritz. 

271 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Orange Pie % C. sugar 1 C. orange juice 

2Y2 T. flour x k C chopped pecans 

IV2 t. butter 6 T. sugar 

2 eggs V2 t. lemon flavoring 

Combine sugar, flour, butter, egg yolks, and 
orange juice. Cook over hot water until thick. 
Cool, and add chopped pecans. Pour into a baked 
pastry shell and top with a meringue, using egg 
whites, sugar, and flavoring. Brown in oven. 

Theresa Lessmeister. 



Prune Pie V2 lb. prunes Whipped cream 

Cold water Chopped pecans 

Cover prunes with cold water and soak over- 
night. Cook until tender, remove pits, and 
sweeten to taste. Beat to a smooth paste, turn 
into a baked crust, and brown in the oven. Cover 
with whipped cream and sprinkle the top with 
chopped pecans. 

Mrs. Mae Buckner. 



Raisin Tarts 3 C. flour 1 C. sugar 

1 t. baking powder Grated rind of 1 lemon 

& t. salt Chopped pecans 

1 C. butter Chopped raisins 

3 egg yolks Chopped citron 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt together, and 
cut in butter. Beat the egg yolks with the sugar, 
flavor with lemon rind, and add this mixture to 
the flour. Knead lightly to a stiff dough. Rollout 
on floured board ^4 inch thick and cut into rounds. 
Line tins with the rounds of pastry and fill with 
pecans, raisins, and citron chopped together. 
Cover with strips of pastry and bake in hot oven. 

Mary E. Rippman. 

272 



Pecan Pies and Pastry 



2 T. butter 2 T. milk Strawberry 

Vz C. sugar V2 qt. strawberries Pie 

1 egg 1 C. powdered sugar 

1 C. flour V2 pt. heavy cream 

1 t. baking powder 2 T. powdered sugar 

% t. salt V2 C. grated pecans 

Cream butter and sugar. Add well beaten egg, 
mixed and sifted dry ingredients, and milk. Roll 
14 inch thick, line a pie pan, and bake in a hot 
oven. When cold, fill with sweetened straw- 
berries. Cover with whipped cream sweetened 
with powdered sugar. Sprinkle with pecans. 

Anna Hall. 



2 C. cooked sweet potatoes IV2 C. milk Sweet Potato 

2 eggs 1 t. cinnamon Pie 

2 T. butter V2 t. ginger 

% C. sugar V2 t. salt 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Put potatoes through a vegetable ricer. Beat 
eggs with sugar and butter until light. Add milk, 
potatoes, seasoning, and pecans. Turn into a 
pastry shell and bake until firm. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

Mrs. J. R. Barsalow. 



2 C raisins 1 T. grated orange rind Raisin Pie I 

IMs C. boiling water 1 T. grated lemon rind 

C. sugar 3 T. orange juice 

2 T. cornstarch 2 T. lemon juice 

% t. salt V2 C. chopped pecans 

Cook raisins in boiling water for 5 minutes. 
Add to sugar and cornstarch. Cook until thick. 
Remove from fire and add other ingredients. Bake 
between 2 crusts or omit top crust and decorate 
with pastry strips and pecans. 

Mrs. Dale Bracewell. 

273 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Raisin Pie II V2 C. raisins y 2 C. chopped pecans 

Vs C. butter 3 T. milk 

Y2 C. sugar 2 eggs 

Cook raisins for a short time in water to cover 
them. Do not drain. Add butter, sugar, pecans, 
milk, and well beaten egg yolks. Bake in a crust. 
Cover with a meringue made of the stiffly beaten 
egg whites, and brown. 

Mrs. Alice Williams. 



Lemon Tarts 3 T. butter Juice and grated rind 

V 2 C. sugar of 1 lemon 

3 eggs 1 C. grated pecans 

Pastry shells 

Cream butter and sugar. Add well beaten eggs, 
lemon juice, and rind. Cook slowly in double 
boiler until mixture is consistency of honey. Cool, 
add pecans, and fill tart shells. Cover with 
meringue or whipped cream. 

Guarner Gray Jones. 



274 



CHAPTER XI 



PECAN SALADS 

FRUIT 

VEGETABLE 

JELLIED 

SALAD DRESSINGS 



"He that follows 
Nature is never out 
of his way" 



CHAPTER XI 



Pecan Salads 

The increasing use of salads in the daily diet 
keeps pace with the greater interest in food study 
and the greater knowledge of food values. As 
Dr. Kellogg points out in his book, Colon Hygiene, 
uncooked foods are more proof against destructive 
bacteria in the process of digestion and their use 
therefore leads to better health and avoidance of 
intestinal ailments. 

In addition, fruits and vegetables eaten raw, 
provide valuable minerals, vitamins and cellulose 
and in no way are they so appealing to the appe- 
tite as in salads. But in general there is a grave 
lack in salads of protein and fat, unless you use 
the only concentrated source of protein and fat in 
purest form which it is safe to eat raw — pecan 
meats. 

Greens of great variety are available — lettuce, 
endive, watercress, escarole, pepper grass and 
romaine are preferred in various districts and at 
various seasons ; but the pecan is needed the year 
'round to make the salad a complete, balanced 
food. Use the recipes in this chapter ; or try add- 
ing pecans to your own favorite salads to increase 
their food value. Greens must be well washed, 
crisp, cold and dry. 

Salad dressings should be made of best oils 
obtainable, olive oil being most nutritious. The 

277 



Meet the 
Demand for 
Uncooked 
Foods 



The Safe 
Source of 
Uncooked 
Fat and 
Protein 



use of condiments, vinegar and mustard is prac- 
tically omitted in these recipes. Lemon juice, a 
beneficial acid, is substituted for vinegar, which 
is injurious in action. 

^ Combine salads quickly from prepared mate- 
rials, chill, and serve at once. 



278 



Pecan Salads 



4 red apples Stuffed olives Apple Bloom 

Celery Green mayonnaise Salad 

Chopped pecans Lettuce 

Core bright red apples, leaving enough of the 
core at the base to hold the apple intact after 
being slashed into 8 sections to fall apart just 
enough to suggest a flower. Fill the centers with 
a mixture of pecans, celery, and olives. Top with 
green mayonnaise. Place the apples in a nest of 
lettuce. 

Edna Pearl Wert. 



Red apples Salad dressing Apple m 

Cottage cheese Lettuce Sandwich 

Nutmeg Pecan halves Salad 

Wash and core apples. Cut in round slices. 
Put together sandwich fashion with cottage cheese 
salted to taste, and sweetened and seasoned with 
nutmeg. Serve on lettuce leaves. Garnish with 
pecans and pour salad dressing over all. 

E. Grace Nolte. 



4 bananas % C. heavy cream Flip Cups 

2 oranges 4 peaches 

1 C. grated pineapple Small bottle maraschino 

1 C. toasted pecan halves cherries 
V2 C. sugar 

Dice bananas. Add chopped oranges, pineapple 
and half the cup of pecans. Add sugar and half 
the beaten cream. Fill peach halves with this 
mixture. Add enough cherry juice to whipped 
cream to give pinkish tint. Top peach halves with 
cream. Make flower petals on the cream with the 
remaining half cup of pecans. Use a cherry for 
the center. 

Mrs. Jack Fields. 



279 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Asparagus 
Salad 



2 T. gelatine 
6 T. cold water 
V2 C. hot water 
1 can asparagus tips 



% C. grated cheese 
1 C. chopped pecans 
1 C. whipped cream 
Paprika 



Dissolve gelatine in cold water. Add hot water 
and let cool. Rub asparagus tips through sieve. 
Add other ingredients, beat thoroughly, and con- 
geal in molds. 

Mrs. Mamie Schnell. 



Asparagus 

Stuffed 

Tomatoes 



Y2 C. chopped pecans 
Mayonnaise dressing 



4 tomatoes 

1 bunch asparagus tips 

Remove pulp of the tomatoes. Fill cavity with 
tender asparagus tips and pecans marinated with 
mayonnaise. Serve on a crisp lettuce leaf and top 
with thick mayonnaise and pecans. 

Mrs. H. A. Hobble. 



Green Pea 
Salad 



2 C. cooked peas 
1 pimento 

V2 C. chopped pecans 



Mayonnaise 

1 t. salt 

2 hard cooked eggs 
Lettuce 



Mix peas, chopped pimento, and pecans with 
enough mayonnaise to hold it together. Add salt. 
Line salad dish with crisp lettuce leaves and pile 
the mixture in the center. Then place the sliced 
hard cooked eggs around the edge. 

Mrs. L. M. Rankin. 



Frozen 

Pineapple 

Salad 



V2 pt. whipped cream 
V2 G. mayonnaise 



Y2 C. chopped pecans 
V2 C. pineapple 



Combine ingredients and freeze. Pack until 
hard, and serves on lettuce leaves. 

Florence K. Bishop. 

280 



Pecan Salads 



% t. gelatine y 2 C. marshmallows Iced Fruit 

Hot pineapple juice 1 t. powdered sugar Salad 

% C. boiled salad dressing 2 T. lemon juice 

% C. whipped cream 1 T. cherry juice 

% C. pineapple y 2 C. apricots or peaches 

% C. maraschino cherries y 2 banana 

% C. chopped pecans 

Dissolve gelatine in hot pineapple juice. Chop 
fruit and marshmallows. Combine all the ingre- 
dients. Mold and pack in ice. 

Mrs. Pearl Harmon. 



1 orange 1 egg yolk Fruit 

Juice of y 2 lemon 3 bananas Cocktail 

Pineapple juice 4 slices pineapple 

,f T. water 1 small bottle maraschino 
% C. sugar cherries 

1 T. cornstarch y 2 C. chopped pecans 

Put juice of 1 orange and y 2 lemon in a cup, 
and fill the cup with pineapple juice. Add water 
and sugar and heat. Mix cornstarch with water, 
add beaten egg yolk and add to heated mixture. 
Stir until thick and smooth. Slice orange, 
bananas, and pineapple, add cherries, and mix 
with salad dressing and pecans. 

Mrs. Frank Den Beste. 



% C. watermelon "marbles" y 2 C. chopped pecans Fruit 

% C. cantaloupe "dice" 1 T. sugar 

y 2 C. peach "matches" % C. orange juice 

Cut watermelon in marbles with a French 
vegetable cutter. Cut cantaloupe in y 2 inch dice 
and the peaches in match-like strips. Combine the 
fruit and pecans, sprinkle with sugar and pour 
the orange juice over this. Stand on ice 3 hours 
at least and serve. 

Mrs. Wm. M. Jones. 



281 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Frozen % lb. cream cheese Vz C. stiffly beaten cream 

Cheese Salad % C. grated pecans 2 T. lemon juice 

1 pimento 2 T. chopped green pepper 

2 T. chopped celery 

Put cheese through food chopper with pecans 
and pimento. Fold in the cream, lemon juice, 
green pepper, celery, and season with salt. Put 
into molds and pack in salt and ice. Let stand for 
4 hours. Slice, and serve on lettuce leaves with 
French dressing. 

Mrs. Paul D. Tillett. 



Cucumber 4 cucumbers % C. chopped pecans 

Boat Salad 1 C. cottage cheese Lettuce leaves 

Salad dressing 

Peel cucumbers and place in salted water for 
short time. Then carve each cucumber so that it 
is a mere shell resembling a boat. Mix cottage 
cheese with pecans and *4 C. chopped cucumber 
pulp. Fill cucumber boats with the mixture, set 
on crisp lettuce leaves, and serve with salad 
dressing. 

Mrs. K. Skobis. 



afar* Salad % T. gelatine 1 t. horseradish 

u e 2 T. cold water Y2 minced green pepper 

14, C. boiling water 4 chopped stuffed olives 

1 C. chopped pecans 2 T. mayonnaise 

1 C. whipped cream 

Soften gelatine in cold water, then dissolve in 
boiling water. Mix other ingredients, except the 
cream, and stir in gelatine. Fold in the cream, 
pack in a mold, and let stand 2 hours or more. 
Serve on lettuce. 

Mrs. Herb Wood. 



282 



Pecan Salads 



cress 



V 2 C. cottage cheese % t. paprika 

1 t. salt 4 T. minced water 

2 T. chopped pecans 

Combine cheese, salt, paprika and watercress, 
mix thoroughly, and make into small balls. Roll 
in chopped pecans and serve on lettuce. 

Florence Tignor Fraim. 



Cottage 
Cheese and 
Watercress 
Salad 



1 pkg. pimento cheese V 2 C. chopped pecans 
3 oz. stuffed olives V 2 C. whipped cream 

4 slices of pineapple 

Combine mashed cheese, chopped olives, pecans, 
and whipped cream. Place in a mold and freeze. 
When frozen, unmold, slice, and place on a round 
of pineapple. Garnish with whipped cream and 
pecans. 

Mrs. A. J. Dennig. 



Frozen 
Pimento 
Cheese Salad 



1 T. gelatine 1 C. gingerale Gingerale 

V 2 C. cold water y 2 C. pecans Salad 

V2 C. hot water y 2 C. chopped apples 

Vik C. sugar V 2 C. chopped celery 

*4 C. crystallized ginger 

Dissolve gelatine in cold water. Add hot water 
and sugar and allow to cool. When partially con- 
gealed, add the ginger ale, nuts, apples, celery and 
ginger. Serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. 

Mrs. L. M. Rankin. 



3 cucumbers 1 C. chopped green olives Cucumber 

3 hard cooked eggs V 2 C. chopped pecans Salad 

Dice cucumbers and hard cooked eggs. Add 
olives and nuts. Serve in hearts of lettuce leaves 
and garnish with mayonnaise dressing. 

Mrs. D. B. Barnes. 



283 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Grape Salad White or green grapes Pecans 

Mayonnaise 

Select large white or light green grapes with 
tender skin. Remove them from the stem, wash, 
and take out the seeds, taking care to preserve the 
shape of the grape. Fill the center with pecan 
kernels. Arrange on lettuce leaves and serve with 
mayonnaise. 

Lois Lush. 



Frozen 1 t. gelatine IV2 C. fruits — bananas, 

Fruit Salad 1 T. cold water pineapple, oranges, 

V2 C. mayonnaise dressing peaches 

V2 C. whipped cream V2 C. chopped pecans 

Soak gelatine in cold water and dissolve over 
hot water. Add to mayonnaise and cream. Fold 
in fruit and pecans. Pack in sealed cans. Freeze, 
using 2 parts of ice to 1 part of salt. 

/. A. Dunn. 



Bean Salad 1 can kidney beans 3 cubed celery stalks 

4 chopped sour pickles V2 C. cabbage 

6 stuffed olives V2 C. chopped pecans 

2 chopped onions French dressing 

Mix ingredients and combine with French 
dressing. 

Helen Dorsett. 



Beet Salad 1 pkg. lemon Jello V2 C. chopped pecans 

1 small bottle stuffed olives 1 C. chopped beets 

Prepare Jello and add olives, pecans, and beets. 
Mold, and serve on lettuce with mayonnaise. 

Mrs. L. H. Stethers. 

284 



Pecan Salads 



4 bananas 1 egg Banana Salad 

Chopped pecans 1 T. sugar 

12 dates Lettuce 

Cut 6 balls from each banana with vegetable 
cutter or a teaspoon. Dip them in beaten egg 
white mixed with sugar, and roll in chopped 
pecans. Cut oval pieces from trimmings and use 
to stuff the dates. Arrange in lettuce nests and 
serve with maple syrup salad dressing. 

Dressing 

C. maple syrup y 8 t. paprika 

3 egg yolks y 2 T. lemon juice 

M t. salt y 2 C. heavy cream 

Heat syrup to boiling point. Pour slowly over 
well beaten egg yolks, beating constantly. Cook 1 
minute, stirring all the time. Remove from fire, 
cool, and add salt, paprika, and lemon juice. Just 
before serving, add the stiffly beaten cream. 

Mrs. A. D. Brown. 



2 C. shredded cabbage 2 chopped pimentoes Cabbage Salad 

1 C. sliced cucumbers y 2 C. mayonnaise 

y% C. chopped pecans 

Salt the cabbage and cucumbers. Mix and let 
stand % hour. Drain salt water off. Combine 
ingredients with mayonnaise and pecans. 

Nettie Bergman. 



*4 can apricots Juice and pulp of ^ Frozen Salad 

% can pineapple orange 
% can white cherries Juice of *4 lemon 

% C. chopped pecans 

Mix ingredients and freeze 3 hours in molds. 
Cut in slices and serve with mayonnaise. 

Mrs. W. E. Rowe. 

285 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Canton Salad 4 red apples % C. chopped pecans 

x /4 lb. crystallized ginger Mayonnaise 

Cut off tops of apples. Core and hollow out. 

Chop the apple taken from the shells and add 

ginger and pecans. Mix with mayonnaise and 
refill apple shells. Chill and serve. 

Mrs. J. B. Haltz. 



Combination C. lemon juice 3 halves of pears 

Salad \ x k C. fruit juice % banana 

1 T. gelatine % orange 

3 T. cold water % C. marshmallows 

i/4 C. sugar 1 egg 

% can pineapple % C. whipped cream 

V2 bottle maraschino V2 C. chopped pecans 

cherries 

Boil the fruit juices. Dissolve gelatine in cold 
water and add to boiling fruit juices. Let cool, 
add fruit, sugar, marshmallows and well beaten 
egg. When it starts to set, add whipped cream 
and pecans. Place in ice box until set. Serve on 
lettuce leaves. 

Gladys Gorham. 



Cottage Cottage cheese Mayonnaise 

Cheese Salad Celery hearts Paprika 

Pecans Stuffed olives 

Make cones by packing small ice cream dippers 
with a layer of cottage cheese around the inside. 
Chop fresh celery hearts and pecans fine, mix with 
mayonnaise and fill the remaining space in cones. 
Turn the screw of the dipper so that the contents 
will lie on a bed of lettuce. Dust with paprika, 
and garnish with stuffed olives. 

Agnes M. Fink. 

286 



Pecan Salads 



2 C. diced celery 1 C. chopped pecans Celery Salad 

6 chopped radishes 2 diced hard cooked eggs 

6 chopped olives Mayonnaise 

Cooked beets 

Blend ingredients well. Arrange in mounds in 
nests of head lettuce. Pour over each portion 1 T. 
dressing and garnish with grated egg yolk and 
beet. 

Mrs. Harold R. Peterson. 



1 C. cold potatoes, cubed 1 C. chopped pecans Celery and 

1 C. chopped celery Cream salad dressing Potato Salad 

4 hard cooked eggs y 2 t. salt 

% t. paprika 

Combine potatoes, celery, egg whites cut in 
strips, pecans, salad dressing, salt, and paprika. 
Place on a round platter, garnish with a wreath 
of small, crisp head lettuce leaves, and sift hard 
boiled egg yolks on top of the mound. 

Mispah Yankie. 



1 pt. cranberries 1 T. gelatine Cranberry 

1 C. sugar y 2 C cold water Salad 

1 C. water iy 2 C. diced celery 

2 C. chopped pecans 

Cook cranberries with sugar and water until 
the berries are soft. Press the juice through a 
sieve. Soften gelatine in % C. cold water and add 
to the hot cranberry juice, and stir until gelatine 
is dissolved. Pour a layer into a mold and when 
it is firm add a layer of celery and nuts. Repeat, 
having the last layer of jelly. When cold, cut in 
squares and serve with mayonnaise. Garnish with 
seeded Malaga grapes and crisp lettuce. 

Mrs. Glen F. Stewart. 



287 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Grapefruit 
Baskets 



2 grapefruit 

2 oranges 

1 lb. white grapes 



Cream mayonnaise 



6 pear halves 
1 C. chopped pecans 
' C. maraschino cherries 



Cut a medium-sized grapefruit in the form of a 
basket. Remove pulp from basket and also from 
remaining grapefruit. Peel oranges, remove 
tough membrane from sections. Remove seeds 
from grapes. Chop pecans, grapefruit and cher- 
ries. Fill basket with cream mayonnaise, place 
in center of salad dish, surround with salad mix- 
ture and pears. Use lettuce leaves as border. 

Mrs. J. G. Hess. 



Daisy Salad 



4 slices pineapple 
1 cream cheese 



1 C. pecans 
Salad dressing 



Use pecan kernels as centers for cheese balls 
about 1% inches in diameter. Roll balls in grated 
pecans. Put a T. of salad dressing on a lettuce 
leaf and place 3 cheese balls on the mayonnaise. 
Cut pineapple rings into 8 sections. Lay the sec- 
tions of the pineapple around these balls to look 
like daisies. 

H. S. Boyd. 



Fairy Salad % C. diced bananas V2 C. chopped pecans 

% C. white grapes % C. maraschino cherries 

% C. diced pineapple C. salad dressing 

% C. diced marshmallows 1 C. whipped cream 

Combine fruit, marshmallows and pecans. 
Dilute dressing with whipped cream. Serve on 
lettuce and garnish with cherries. 

Mrs. D. L. Miller. 

288 



Pecan Salads 



1 cucumber 1 t. salt Cucumber and 
5 T. cream cheese % C. grated pecans Cheese Salad 

2 t. thick dressing Lettuce 

Cut cucumber in half cross-wise. Scoop out 
seeds and pulp. Fill cavity with cream cheese 
moistened with salad dressing and salted. Press 
halves together firmly. Form remaining cheese 
into balls % inch in diameter and roll in pecans. 
Peel cucumber, score with a silver fork and chill. 
Cut in % inch slices, place on lettuce leaves, 
garnish with cheese balls, and serve with salad 
dressing. 

Mrs. M. J. Walsh. 



V 2 can grated pineapple V2 t. cornstarch Cream Fruit 

Juice of V2 lemon V 2 C. whipped cream Salad 

% C. sugar 1 C. chopped pecans 

1 egg r A lb. marshmallows 

3 bananas 

Drain pineapple. Add lemon juice, sugar, and 
well beaten egg to the pineapple juice. Add the 
cornstarch and cook in a double boiler until thick. 
Set aside to cool. When ready to serve, add 
whipped cream. Combine pineapple, pecans, 
chopped marshmallows and bananas and mix with 
the dressing. 

Mrs. J. R. Mitchell. 



1 pkg. dates 1 cream cheese Date Salad 

V 2 C. chopped pecans 1 small bottle cherries 

Remove stones from dates and fill with a mix- 
ture of pecans and cheese. Serve on lettuce leaves. 
Top with cherry and dot with mayonnaise dress- 
ing. 

Mrs. W. F. Richardson. 



289 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Egg Salad 6 diced hard cooked eggs 1 small diced celery stalk 

1 C. chopped pecans 1 t. salt 

1 small bottle stuffed olives Mayonnaise 

Combine ingredients and mix thoroughly with 
mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce leaf, garnish with 
mayonnaise and sprinkle lightly with paprika. 

Mrs. U. P. Brown. 



Fresh Fruit 1 C. whipped cream V 2 T. gelatine 

Salad Paprika 1 T. cold water 

1 t. salt 1 C. chopped pecans 

1 C. mayonnaise % C. fresh peaches 

% C. raspberries 

Add paprika and salt to whipped cream and mix 
with mayonnaise. Dissolve gelatine in cold water, 
and heat over hot water. Add pecans, chopped 
fruit and berries, and gelatine to first mixture. 
Mould, chill, and serve without dressing on a bed 
of shredded lettuce. 

Mrs. Wm. M. Jones. 



Keystone Vz C. chopped pecans 1 head of lettuce 

Salad Y2 C. chopped celery 4 stuffed olives 

V2 C. chopped apples 1 pimento 

C. dressing 1 bunch parsley 

Combine pecans, celery, and apples with the 
dressing. Slice lettuce through the heart. Allow 
1 round of the lettuce for each service and place 
the salad on this in the shape of a keystone. Out- 
line it with narrow strips of pimento and place 
the minced parsley on the outer edge of this. Place 
a stuffed olive, spray of parsley or slice of hard 
cooked egg in the center. 

Mrs. T. A. Bridgers. 

290 



Pecan Salads 



4 tomatoes 1 hard-cooked egg Luncheon 

1 small cream cheese French dressing Salad 

1 T. chopped parsley Boiled dressing 

2 T. chopped pimentoes V2 C. chopped pecans 

Cut a slice from the stem end of each tomato. 
Remove a portion of the pulp from the center, 
sprinkle with salt and invert on ice. To a small, 
mashed cream cheese add parsley, pimentoes, and 
chopped white of egg. Blend with French dress- 
ing. Fill tomato cavities with the mixture. 
Arrange on lettuce and pour a T. of boiled dress- 
ing on top. Put yolk of egg through a sieve. Put 
a t. of fluffed egg yolk on top of dressing and 
sprinkle pecans on top. 

Mrs. Sara Harman. 



1 C. diced cucumbers % C. shredded carrot Cucumber and 

1 C. diced celery % C. mayonnaise Celery Salad 

% C. chopped pecans 2 tomatoes 

% C. chopped green peppers Crisp lettuce leaves 

Combine cucumbers, celery, pecans, pepper, and 
carrots with mayonnaise. Pare tomatoes and 
slice on lettuce leaves. Put a mound of salad mix- 
ture on each slice of tomato. 

Anna V. Brown. 



*k can grated pineapple % C. cold water Jellied 
% C. sugar 1 T. gelatine Pineapple 

Juice of 1 lemon V2 C. chopped pecans Salad 

Mix pineapple, sugar, lemon juice, and cold 
water and let come to boiling point. Dissolve 
gelatine in cold water and stir into first mixture. 
Just before it congeals thoroughly, add pecans. 
Serve with mayonnaise. 

Mrs. M. Bass Brown. 



291 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Marshmallow 3 bananas V2 orange 

Fruit Salad V 2 C. white grapes V 2 C. chopped pecans 

1 C. pineapple % lb. marshmallows 

Cut bananas, grapes, pineapple, and orange into 
small cubes. Combine fruits with following salad 
dressing. Add nuts and cubed marshmallows just 
before serving. 

Salad Dressing 

2 egg yolks Juice of 2 lemons 

Juice of 1 orange 1 T. flour 

1 C. sugar 

Beat egg yolks with fruit juices. Add flour and 
sugar mixed together. Cook in double boiler until 
thick. Let cool and thin with cream. 

Mrs. R. T. Wallace. 



Loaf Cheese 1 T. gelatine 3 hard cooked eggs 

Salad 2 T. cold water % C. pimentoes 

% C. hot water 3 oz. stuffed olives 

V2 lb. cheese V2 C. chopped pecans 

Dissolve gelatine in cold water. Add hot water. 
Put cheese, eggs and pimentoes through a food 
chopper. Add sliced olives and pecans. Combine 
with gelatine mixture and mold. When cold, slice 
and serve. 

Bernice Lough. 



Lima Bean 1 can lima beans 1 onion 

Salad 2 stalks of celery 1 t. salt 

V2 C. chopped pecans % C. mayonnaise 

Pecan halves 

Combine ingredients, mix well, and serve on 
lettuce leaves. Garnish with pecan halves. 

Ruth B. Benton. 



292 



Pecan Salads 



1 T. gelatine 1% C. celery Jellied Celery 

3 T. cold water 1 C. chopped pecans Salad 

1 C. mayonnaise dressing Lettuce 

% C. heavy cream Paprika 

Soak gelatine in cold water. Dissolve over hot 
water. Add slowly to mayonnaise, and beat until 
well mixed. Fold in stiffly beaten cream, finely cut 
celery, and pecans. Season to taste. Turn into 
individual molds and chill. When ready to serve, 
turn out in nests of lettuce leaves and garnish with 
whole pecans and paprika. 

Margie Thompson. 



4 bananas V2 C. chopped pecans Log Cabin 

Orange juice 1 C. red cherries Salad 

y 2 C. chopped raisins 1 C. mayonnaise 

Peel and cut bananas in quarters. Divide in 
half lengths and soak in orange juice for half an 
hour. Place lettuce leaves on salad plates, arrange 
bananas log cabin style. Fill centers with the 
mixture of raisins, pecans, and cherries. Top 
with mayonnaise, and decorate with strawberries. 

Mrs. J. W. Brown. 



V 2 pkg. gelatine V2 C. chopped pecans Jellied Egg 

1 T. cold water X A C. chopped pickled onions Salad 

% C. hot water 2 T. lemon juice 

3 chopped hard cooked eggs % t. salt 

V2 can chopped pimento t. paprika 

1 chopped sweet pickle V2 C. mayonnaise 

Soak gelatine in cold water, add boiling water. 
Add eggs, pecans, pickles, pimento, onions, lemon 
juice, and seasoning. Let stand until cool. Stir 
in mayonnaise and chill. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. Wm. E. Osborne. 

293 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Jellied Fruit 2 T. gelatine % C. diced celery 

Salad 1 C. crushed pineapple V 2 C. chopped pecans 

% C. sugar y 2 can Bartlett pears 

2 apples Paprika 

Pecan halves 

Dissolve gelatine in 2 T. pineapple juice. Boil 
remaining juice from strained pineapple and add 
to gelatine. Add sugar. Mix diced apples, celery, 
pecans and half of pineapple. Pour over gelatine 
and mix thoroughly. Reserve a small amount of 
gelatine and put a spoonful in the bottom of each 
mold, then a half of pear, and fill up with mixed 
nuts and fruit. Serve on lettuce leaves with may- 
onnaise and garnish with pecan halves and 
paprika. 

Mrs. J. J. Kandor. 



Jellied Apple 1 pkg. lemon Jello 1 C. chopped tart apples 

balad 1 p t. boiling water 1 C. chopped pecans 

1 t. lemon juice 1 C. chopped celery 

Dissolve Jello in boiling water and lemon juice. 
Mix other ingredients and add to Jello. Cool in 
individual molds. Serve on lettuce with mayon- 
naise or French dressing. 

Mrs. R. J. Foreman. 



Pineapple 4 slices of pineapple y 2 C. chopped pecans 

balad 1 small can pimentos Mayonnaise dressing 

Place a slice of pineapple on lettuce leaf. Cut 
pimentos in strips and place 5 strips on the 
pineapple, even distances apart, one end of strip 
at center and the other end at outer edge. Fill 
center of pineapple with chopped pecans. Place 
spoonful of mayonnaise on top of the nuts. 

Mrs. L. B. Ray. 

294 



Pecan Salads 



1 T. gelatine 1 bunch fresh mint leaves Mint Jelly 

V 2 C. cold water 1 pt. lemon jelly 

1 C. boiling water 1 C. cooked peas 

14 C. lemon juice, % C. chopped pimentos 

% C. sugar % C. chopped pecans 

Soak gelatine in cold water for 5 minutes. Dis- 
solve in boiling water, and add lemon juice and 
sugar. Let mint leaves stand in warm jelly until 
it is well flavored. Add a little green vegetable 
coloring if desired. Cool, and when almost on the 
point of congealing, add peas, pimento, and 
pecans. Turn into molds, and when ready to serve, 
turn onto crisp lettuce leaves and garnish with 
watercress and cheese balls. 

Mrs. E. W. Williams. 



2 oranges % C. chopped pecans Orange 

1 banana V2 pkg. cherry Jello Jelly Cups 

Lettuce leaves 

Cut oranges in half. Take out centers and cut 
fine. Add bananas and pecans. Prepare Jello. 
When cold, add to mixture and fill orange cups. 
Chill and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. E. Fulton. 



1 pkg. lemon Jello 1 C. finely chopped pecans Perfection 

1 C. finely chopped cabbage V 2 C. stuffed olives Salad 
1 C. finely chopped celery Lettuce 

Mayonnaise 

Prepare Jello. When cool, add remaining ingre- 
dients. Mix well and pour into mold. Place in 
refrigerator. When ready to serve, remove from 
mold, and cut into required portions. Serve on 
lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. 

Hilda A. Kissner. 



295 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



8 canned peach halves % banana 
% C. maraschino cherries Mayonnaise 
2 T. chopped pecans Whipped cream 

Thoroughly drain peaches. Make a filling of 
cherries, pecans and mashed banana, and add a 
small amount of mayonnaise. Place % of the 
peach on a bed of crisp lettuce, put a spoonful of 
the filling in the half of peach and place the other 
half on top. Cover with mayonnaise and add a 
dash of whipped cream. Garnish with cherries. 

Ivese L. Madison. 



1 T. gelatine Juice of V 2 lemon 

% C. cold water % C. sugar 

1 C. boiling water 2 C. celery 

Juice of 1 orange 1 C. chopped pecans 

Green coloring 

Soak gelatine in cold water. Add boiling water 
and fruit juice. Color green with coloring. Add 
sugar and when entirely dissolved, strain. Pour 
into molds and when it begins to thicken, add 
pecans and celery. 

Anita Knabe. 



4 slices of pineapple 4 T. orange pulp 

4 pear halves *4 C. chopped pecans 

4 T. grapefruit 1 C. cherries 

Whipped cream salad dressing 

Make nests of heart leaves of lettuce. In each 
put a slice of pineapple, cover with half a pear and 
1 T. each of grapefruit and orange pulp. Cover 
with pecan bits and garnish with cherries. Serve 
with mayonnaise to which whipped cream has 
been added. 

Mrs. Jean Grief. 

296 



Pecan Salads 



V2 T. gelatine 14 can sliced pineapple Pineapple and 

1 T. cold water % small bottle maraschino Cherry Salad 

% C. hot water cherries 

Juice of 1 lemon % grapefruit 

Juice of pineapple % C. chopped celery 

and cherries % C. chopped pecans 

Soak gelatine in cold water 5 minutes. Add 
hot water and fruit juice. Cool slightly, add 
chopped fruit, celery, and pecans. Mold. 

Mrs. W. C. McCoy. 



3 peaches 4 T. crushed ice Patrician 

3 plums 4 T. powdered sugar Fruit 

1 pear 4 T. currant juice Cocktail 

V2 C. chopped pecans 4 T. raspberry juice 

Peel, seed, and cut peaches in quarters. Peel, 
seed and cut plums in halves. Add pears, peeled, 
cored, and cut in cubes, and pecans. Chill thor- 
oughly and serve in shallow glasses with 1 T. 
crushed ice, 1 T. powdered sugar, 1 T. currant 
juice, and 1 T. raspberry juice in each glass. 

Mrs. Jean Grief. 



1 t. gelatine 1 t. salt 

1 T. cold water y 2 C. grated pecans 

% lb. pimento cheese 2 green peppers 

5 T. cream Lettuce 

Soften gelatine in cold water and dissolve over 
hot water. Add this to the cheese which has been 
rubbed through a grater and made smooth and 
moist with cream. Add pecans. Stuff peppers 
with the mixture and place on ice. When cold, 
slice in thin rings and arrange on a bed of crisp 
lettuce. Serve with French dressing and place a 
pecan half on each ring. 

Mrs. J. Gemeinhardt. 

297 



Shamrock 
Salad 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Red Pear 4 canned pear halves 1 T. chopped stuffed olives 
Salad 2 T. cinnamon drops Cream 

1 Neufchatel cheese Paprika 

1 T. chopped pecans Salt 

Drain juice from pears. Add cinnamon drops 
to juice and boil until candies are dissolved. Add 
pears and simmer until they absorb the coloring. 
Drain from juice and chill. Mix cheese with 
pecans and olives, moisten with cream and add 
seasonings to taste. Roll in small balls. Serve 
half a pear and 4 cheese balls on lettuce leaf to 
each serving. Serve with mayonnaise dressing 
combined with a little whipped cream. 

Mrs. Winifred Hubbard. 



Rose Salad 4 slices of pineapple 1 large tomato 

Pink mayonnaise Pecan halves 

Place a slice of pineapple on lettuce leaves 
arranged on individual service plates. Fill the 
hole in the center with mayonnaise. Place a thin 
slice of tomato on top of each pineapple slice. 
Press a pink mayonnaise rose on top of the tomato 
slice and arrange nuts to represent calyx leaves on 
the edge. 

Flo Onida Williamson. 



Prickly Pear Lettuce Whipped cream or salad 

Salad 8 preserved pear halves dressing 

Pecans 

Turn out 2 halves of preserved pears with cut 
edges down on crisp lettuce. Cut pecans into 
narrow strips. Stick in straight rows until pear 
is completely covered. Fill halves with whipped 
cream or salad dressing. 

Mrs. J. B. Mainella. 



298 



Pecan Salads 



2 green peppers V2 C. chopped pecans Cheese-stuffed 

hi C. cream cheese Crisp lettuce leaves Pepper Salad 

Stuff peppers with a mixture of cheese and 
pecans. Chill, slice crosswise, and serve on 
lettuce. 

Mary G. Gloster. 



1 C. cooked peas 1 tomato Mixed 

V2 C. carrots V2 C. chopped pecans Vegetable 

y 2 C. beets V2 T. grated cheese Salad 

Mayonnaise 

Cube the carrots, beets, and tomato. Combine 
all the ingredients with mayonnaise and place 
about 2 T. on a crisp lettuce leaf on individual 
salad plates. Sprinkle with celery seeds and 
chopped parsley. 

Mrs. James H. Davis. 



4 cooked beets V2 C. chopped pecans Stuffed Beets 

1 C. chopped cabbage Dressing 

Remove centers from beets and arrange shells 
in lettuce leaves. Combine cabbage and pecans 
with mayonnaise and refill the beet cups. Sprinkle 
with finely cut beet pulp. 

Mrs. Mabel E. Miller. 



1 cucumber V2 C. chopped pecans Stuffed 

1 t. salt Mayonnaise Pepper Salad 

% t. onion juice 4 pepper shells 

i/2 G. chopped celery Lettuce 

Chop cucumber, add salt, and drain. When dry, 
add onion juice, celery, pecans, and mayonnaise. 
Fill pepper shells and chill. Serve on shredded 
lettuce. 

Ida Holecamp. 

299 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Potato 1 large head of lettuce 1 t. minced onion 

Salad I 3 C. diced cold potatoes 2 pickled beets 

% C. chopped pecans Mayonnaise 

Chopped parsley- 
Wash, drain, and shred the lettuce. Arrange in 
a mound in the center of the salad dish. Mix 
potatoes, pecans, and mayonnaise, seasoned with 
onion, and place around the lettuce. Cut the 
pickled beets into cubes or fancy shapes and stand 
around the base of the lettuce mound. Pour a 
little mayonnaise over the lettuce and sprinkle 
with chopped parsley. 



Potato 8 medium sized potatoes 4 small pickles 

Salad II 1 green pepper V2 small onion 

1 cooked beet % C. chopped pecans 

1 hard-cooked egg Lettuce leaves 

Mayonnaise 

Chop the cold boiled potatoes, pepper, beet, egg, 
pickles, onion, and pecans. Moisten well with 
boiled dressing and press into small bowls or cups. 
Place on ice to chill. Turn out in nests of lettuce 
leaves and garnish with rosettes of heart leaves of 
lettuce. 

Nelle Doneen. 



Potato and 

Vegetable 

Salad 



V2 C. diced cooked potatoes 
V2 C. cooked peas 
V2 C. cooked corn 



1 t. salt 



V2 C. chopped cabbage 



C. chopped celery 
C. chopped apples 
chopped onion 
C. chopped pecans 
Dressing 



Squeeze lemon juice over apples to keep them 
from discoloring. Mix all the ingredients together 
and combine with a salad dressing thinned with 
cream. Serve on lettuce. 

Alma Martin. 



300 



Pecan Salads 



Lettuce Mayonnaise dressing Star Vegetable 

Asparagus tips Olives Salad 

Peas Radishes 
Cubed carrots Pecans 

Parsley 

Place lettuce leaves on round platter. Arrange 
asparagus tips on lettuce, radiating from the 
center with tips at the outer edge. Put a mound 
of peas in the center of platter and arrange carrots 
around peas in the shape of a star. Outline star 
with mayonnaise dressing and decorate with 
olives, radish roses, pecan halves, and parsley. 



4 tomatoes 6 chopped ripe olives Staffed 

% C. chopped celery % C. chopped pecans Tomato Salad 

1 chopped onion 1 t. salt 

2 T. mayonnaise 

Pour boiling water over tomatoes and allow to 
stand 1 minute, drain, and peel. Hollow out the 
center and cut the pulp in small pieces. Mix with 
remaining ingredients and refill tomato shells, 
putting 1 t. of mayonnaise on top of each. Serve 
on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. H. A, Raybourne. 



4 tomatoes y 2 C. chopped pecans Tomatoes 

1 cucumber y 2 t. salt Stuffed with 

1 celery heart 2 T. mayonnaise Cucumber 

Cut a slice from the stem end of each tomato. 
Remove the seeds and pulp, sprinkle with salt, 
invert, and let stand i/ 2 hour. Combine tomato 
pulp, chopped cucumber, celery, and pecans. Add 
salt and mayonnaise. Stuff tomato shells with 
mixture and serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 

Thelma Crawford. 

301 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Tomato Jelly 2 C. thick tomato pulp 1 T. mushroom catsup 

Bay leaf *4 pkg. gelatine 

1 slice onion % C. cold water 

1 stalk celery Finely chopped cabbage 
% t. peppercorns Chopped pecans 

2 cloves Finely chopped red pepper 
1 t. salt Mayonnaise 

Cook tomato pulp, bay leaf, onion, celery, 
peppercorns, and cloves for 15 minutes. Season 
with salt and mushroom catsup. Soften gelatine 
in cold water and add tomato mixture. Strain 
into a wet ring mold. Unmold on serving dish, 
fill center with finely shredded cabbage, pecans, 
and pepper. Moisten with mayonnaise. 

Mrs. C. W. Miller. 



Tomato 4 green peppers 1 t. salt 

Shamrock Parsley 1 C. chopped pecans 

Salad 6 tomatoes Oil dressing 

Place 3 rings cut from pepper on each plate in 
the shape of a shamrock with a piece of parsley 
between each ring. Chop tomatoes and peppers, 
add salt, pecans and dressing, and fill the pepper 
rings with the mixture. 

Mrs. J. N. Esselstyn. 



Tomatoes 4 tomatoes V2 C. diced celery 

Stuffed with V2 C. chopped pecans Mayonnaise 
Celery Nasturtium leaves 

Cut slice from stem end of tomatoes and scoop 
out pulp. Combine pulp with pecans, celery, and 
mayonnaise. Fill centers of tomatoes, chill well, 
and serve on bed of nasturtium leaves with 3 
blossoms on side of plate. 

Mrs. Wm. J. Stephen. 
302 



Pecan Salads 



4 tomatoes 1 C. grated pecans Tomatoes 

% C. bread crumbs % t. salt Stuffed 

V2 C. grated cheese % t. paprika with Cheese 

Cut a slice from the stem end of tomatoes and 
carefully remove pulp from center. Mix bread 
crumbs, cheese, tomato pulp, pecans, salt, and 
paprika. Add mayonnaise and refill tomatoes 
with the mixture. Serve on individual plates in 
lettuce cups. Garnish with mayonnaise and pecan 
halves. 

Mrs. Chloe C. Grafton. 



4 tomatoes 1 T. minced green pepper Tomato 

Skin and chill tomatoes. Cut in small pieces, Cocktal 
add 1 T. minced green pepper, drain, and serve 
with cocktail sauce. 

Cocktail Sauce 

Vz C. chopped pecans 1 T. Worcestershire sauce 

V2 C. tomato catsup % t. salt 

% C. salad dressing 

Chill and serve 2 T. over the tomato pepper in 
cocktail glasses. 

Mrs. Wm. H. Martin. 



4 tomatoes V2 C. chopped pecans Tomatoes 

1% C. cooked lima beans 2 T. minced celery Stuffed with 

1 small grated onion 1 t. salt Lima Beans 

1 T. parsley French dressing 

Cut a slice from the top of each tomato and 
remove the pulp. Combine beans, onion, parsley, 
pecans, celery, and seasoning. Mix with French 
dressing and refill tomatoes with the mixture. 

Theresa Lessmeister. 



303 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Orange Cups 2 oranges % C. cherries 

V 2 can pineapple V2 C. powdered sugar 

1 banana 1 C. chopped pecans 

Strawberries 

Chop fruit in small pieces. Fill orange shells. 
Alternate the layers of fruit with layers of sugar 
and pecans. Garnish with strawberries, add the 
following dressing, and chill : 

1 T. maraschino liquid 2 T. lemon juice 
V2 C. granulated sugar 2 T. pineapple juice 

Mrs. Charles E. Ford. 



Uncooked 
Vegetable 
Salad 



1 C. grated raw, carrots 1 C. chopped pecans 
1 C. crisp cabbage Salad dressing 

1 C. cubed apples Lettuce leaves 

Pecan halves 

Combine carrots, cabbage, apples, and pecans 
with desired salad dressing. Serve on lettuce and 
garnish with pecan halves. 

D'Nola Freeman. 



Vegetable 1 C. shredded cabbage V2 pimento 

Salad 1 C. chopped celery V 2 green pepper 

V 2 C. shredded lettuce % C. whipped cream 

3 radishes V2 C. mayonnaise 

V 2 T. grated onion V 2 C. chopped pecans 

Mix cabbage, celery, lettuce, radishes, onion, 
pimento, and pepper. Add a small amount of the 
mayonnaise which has been mixed with the 
whipped cream. Chill, and add pecans, and 
remaining salad dressing. Serve in lettuce nests. 
Sprinkle finely chopped pecans over the top. 
Decorate with a radish rose or pimento cut in bits. 

Winifred M. Hubbard. 
304 



Pecan Salads 



3 C. watermelon cubes 4 T. chopped pecans Watermelon 
Powdered sugar 4 T. raisins Cocktail 

Lemon juice Mint leaves 

Cut balls from a melon with a potato cutter or 
cut in neat cubes. Sprinkle with powdered sugar 
and a little lemon juice. Add pecans and raisins. 
Chill, serve in cocktail glasses, and garnish with a 
sprig of mint. 

Mrs. Win. H. Martin. 



1 shredded head of lettuce Vs lb. marshmallows Watermelon 

40 strips of watermelon % C. chopped pecans Log Cabin 

y 2 can crushed pineapple 1 C. whipped cream Salad 

V2 C. pecan halves 

Cut watermelon strips 31/2 inches long and % 
inches wide each way to form a bar. Drain pine- 
apple. Cut marshmallows in *4 inch cubes. Chill 
cream and whip till stiff. Form lettuce as grass 
on the salad plates. Use 10 strips of watermelon 
for each salad. Form a log cabin on the 
lettuce with watermelon strips. Mix pineapple, 
marshmallows, and chopped pecans, and fill cen- 
ters of cabins with mixture. Lightly pile whipped 
cream on top to form the roof. Put pecan halves 
in rows on roof. 

Mrs. J. L. Divert. 



1 C. mayonnaise % C. grated toasted pecans Mayonnaise 

« DressinfiT 

Toast and grate pecans and add to mayonnaise. 

Iven L. Madison. 



305 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Boiled Salad 2 egg yolks % C. milk 

Dressing V2 t. salt % C. lemon juice 

%. T. sugar 2 T. butter 

1 T. flour i/4 C. grated pecans 

Beat egg yolks in the inner portion of a double 
boiler. Add salt, sugar and flour, and stir until 
well blended. Add milk, lemon juice and butter. 
Cook until the mixture begins to thicken, stirring 
constantly. Remove from heat, add pecans, and 
cool at once. 



Fruit *4 C. cherry juice Vz t. salt 

Dressing % C. pineapple juice 2 eggs 

% C. lemon juice V2 pt. whipped cream 

% C. sugar % C. grated pecans 

Mix cherry, pineapple, and lemon juice, sugar, 
and salt. Boil 3 minutes, remove from stove, beat 
in eggs well, add juice, put back on stove, and cook 
till it coats a spoon. When cool, add whipped 
cream and nuts. 

Mrs. Henry Matthews. 



Fluffy 1 egg yolk 1 T. lemon juice 

Mayonnaise Y2 t. sugar 1 C. olive oil 

Dressing % t. salt 1 T. boiling water 

% T. Worcestershire sauce 1 egg white 

1 T. grated pecans 

Beat egg yolk well. Add sugar, salt, Worcester- 
shire Sauce, and lemon juice, and beat well. Add 
olive oil first by teaspoonfuls and then tablespoon- 
fuls, beating constantly and rapidly. When all the 
oil has been used, add boiling water. Chill, and 
fold in stiffly beaten egg white and pecans. 



306 



Pecan Salads 



1 C. grated pecans V 2 C. currant jelly Cream Jelly 

1 C. mayonnaise Juice of V2 lemon Dressing 

/ 1 C. whipped cream 

Pound pecans to a paste. Add mayonnaise, 
jelly, lemon juice and whipped cream. 

Mrs. J. Bartel. 



1 green pepper 
1 red pepper 
1 onion 

V2 C. grated pecans 



IV2 C. olive oil 
x k C. lemon juice 
V2 C. sugar 
2 t. salt 



Chop peppers and onion very fine, add pecans, 
and put in a glass fruit jar. Pour in the oil, lemon 
juice, sugar and salt. Fasten the top on the can 
and shake vigorously until thick. 

Mrs. D. S. Weeks. 



French 
Dressing 



2 egg yolks 

3 T. sugar 

Juice of 1 orange 



Juice of 1 lemon 
1 T. butter 
1 C. whipped cream 



V2 C. grated pecans 

Beat egg yolks with sugar. Add orange and 
lemon juice. Cook in double boiler until thick. 
Add butter. When cold, add whipped cream to 
mixture and whip again. Add pecans. 

Cora Fischer. 



Fruit Salad 
Dressing 



2 T. tomato catsup 2 T. mayonnaise Russian 

2 T. chili sauce 1 T. water Dressing 

2 T. tomato juice or 1 hard-cooked egg yolk 

1 T. lemon juice and 2 T. grated pecans 

Combine ingredients and chill. 

Thomas J. Scanlon. 



307 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Sauce 2 T. capers 1 T. parsley 

Tartare 2 T. olives % T. onion juice 

2 T. gherkins 2 T. grated pecans 

1 C. mayonnaise 

Chop capers, olives, gherkins, and parsley very 
fine. Add onion juice and pecans and fold into 
mayonnaise. 



Thousand 

Island 

Dressing 



1 T. chili sauce 
1 C. grated pecans 
3 T. heavy cream 



V2 t. salt 



1 onion 

2 cold cooked beets 
1 hard-cooked egg 

V2 C. mayonnaise 

1 t. sugar 

Chop onion, beets, and eggs until very fine. 
Combine with mayonnaise, chili sauce, pecans, and 
heavy cream. Mix until well blended, add salt and 
sugar. Mix thoroughly and chill. 

Mrs. Wm. M. Jones. 



Vegetable 4 hard-cooked eggs 
Dressing y 2 p t. sour pickles 

1 onion 

% C. grated pecans 

Chop eggs, pickles 
remaining ingredients. 



V2 can pimento 

1 pt. catsup 

2 t. paprika 

1 C. mayonnaise 

onion and combine with 
Mrs. Oakes K. Ames. 



308 



CHAPTER XII 



PECAN SANDWICHES 
AND RELISHES 

FRUIT SANDWICHES 
VEGETABLE SANDWICHES 
CANAPES 
RELISHES 



"Now, good diges- 
tion wait on appe- 
tite, and health on 
both" 



CHAPTER XII 



Pecan Sandwiches and Relishes 

In these days of automobile outings, when the Needed 
repast is eaten close to Nature, the need for a auto outing, 
greater variety of sandwiches is clearly seen, school 
The school-child's lunch and the informal social chi Jd> lunch 

„ . _ _ and informal 

affair have also stressed the same need, until it affairs 
is now true that of sandwiches, canapes, etc., 
there is a variety far greater than our grand- 
parents or parents would have conceived possible. 



But the motorist or hiker's repast must contain Practically 
real nutriment, and it is this need that the pecan diet° mplete 
fills so well. If the pecan were of such pronounced 
flavor as some other nuts, it might soon become 
unwelcome, but it fortunately has a mild yet 
alluring flavor which, combined with its food 
nutritive merit, makes it the best source of protein 
and fat for the sandwich filling. Nor can its 
superiority in mineral salts and in vitamin be 

311 



overlooked, for these make a luncheon of pecan 
sandwiches (especially in whole wheat bread) 
practically a complete diet when supplemented by 
an apple, peach or other fresh fruit. 

Pecans combine ideally with cheese in sand- 
wiches and canapes, as well as in salads. 



312 



Pecan Sandwiches and Relishes 



2 mellow apples % C. mayonnaise Apple 

Crisp lettuce leaves 1 C. grated pecans Sandwiches 

Peel the apples and cut in thin round slices. 
Place a lettuce leaf on a slice of bread, dip the 
apple slices in the dressing and arrange on the 
lettuce. Sprinkle with pecans. Top with another 
slice of bread spread with mayonnaise. 

Brooke S. Ramey. 



V2 can mashed asparagus *4 c. thick mayonnaise Asparagus 
tips y 2 t. salt Sandwiches 

V2 C. thick white sauce V 8 t. paprika 

V2 C. grated pecans 

Combine ingredients and spread on slices of 
bread. 

Mrs. Martin H. Collins. 



1 C. chopped pecans Orange juice or Banana 

1 banana Pineapple juice or Sandwich 

V2 C. grape pulp Salad dressing Filling 

Mix pecans, banana, and grape pulp. Moisten 
with orange or pineapple juice or cooked salad 
dressing. 

Mrs. Fritz Fly. 



% lb. ground dates Brown bread Cheese 

1 C. grated pecans White bread and Date 

Lemon juice Cream cheese Sandwiches 

Combine dates and pecans and moisten with 
lemon juice. Place filling on a slice of buttered 
white bread and cover with a slice of brown bread. 
Over the brown bread spread a filling of cream 
cheese and top with a slice of white bread. Cut 
in triangular shapes. 

Mrs. H. Stuedemann. 



313 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Applebutter 
Sandwiches 



1 C. apple butter Vz C. chopped pecans 

Mix apple butter and pecans and spread on thin 
slices of bread cut in fancy shapes. 

Leola Howard. 



Butter 
Canapes 



Brown bread 



Apple butter 
Pecans 



Cut thick slices from a loaf of brown bread. 
Stamp into rounds with a biscuit cutter. Spread 
each round with apple butter. Place a pecan half 
in center and arrange a border of chopped pecans 
around the edge. Serve with cheese cubes. 

Elaine Rasch. 



Canape Stale bread Finely chopped olives 

Chopped pecans Mayonnaise 

Pimentos 

Cut stale bread in crescents. Saute a delicate 
brown in butter. Drain on brown paper. Mix 
equal parts of olives and pecans and moisten with 
mayonnaise to the consistency to spread. Spread 
bread with mixture and garnish with pimento. 

Mrs. H. M. Williamson. 



Cheese X A lb. cream cheese % C. grated pecans 

and Celery 3 pimentos % t. salt 

Sandwiches 3 stalks celery Mayonnaise 

Place cheese, pimentos, and celery in a bowl 
and chop fine. Add pecans, salt, and enough may- 
onnaise to moisten. Spread on buttered rye or 
white bread. A lettuce leaf may be used between 
the slices. 

Mrs. Maude Ewalt. 



314 



Pecan Sandwiches and Relishes 



Vz C. chopped dates % C. chopped preserved Canton 

Vz C. chopped pecans ginger Sandwiches 

Lemon juice Ginger syrup 

Mix ingredients, moistening well with lemon 
juice and ginger syrup. Spread between thin 
slices of buttered whole wheat bread. 

Mrs. Norma Hannes. 



Vz C. grated pecans Vz t. salt 

Vz C. ground carrots iy 2 T. salad oil 

1 t. lemon juice 

Use young, tender, and raw carrots. Combine 
ingredients and spread. 

Anabel R. Barber. 



Carrot 
Sandwiches 



1 C. chopped celery 
% C. chopped olives 



% C grated pecans 



Mayonnaise 



Combine ingredients and spread between thin 
slices of bread. 

E. P. Stickney. 



Celery 
Sandwiches 



Vz C. cold beans 



Vz C. grated pecans 



Vz C. grated cream cheese % t. olive oil 



Vz can pimentoes 



Vz T. mustard 



Combine ingredients, make a smooth paste, and 
spread between buttered rye bread. 

Mrs. Pearl Oleslager. 



Cheese and 
Bean 

Sandwiches 



1 C. grated pecans 1 t. horseradish Cheese and 

Vz lb. cream cheese French dressing Horseradish 

Combine ingredients, using enough French Sandwiches 
dressing to moisten. Use for canapes or sand- 
wiches. 

Lillian Bentham. 

315 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Cheese Butter Pimento cheese 

Canape Pecan halves 

Cream cheese with butter. Cut four circles 
from 4 slices of sandwich bread. Spread with 
cheese mixture and arrange four pecan halves in 
center to form the petals of a flower. Toast in 
oven. 

Mrs. C. W. Young. 



Cheese 
and Egg 
Sandwiches 



1 sour pickle or 
1 green pepper 
Yz lb. cream cheese 



3 hard-cooked eggs 
1 C. grated pecans 
Yz C. boiled salad dressing 



Put sour pickle or green pepper through the 
food chopper. Combine with cheese, eggs, pecans 
and dressing. Butter thin slices of white or 
graham bread and put together with the mixture. 

Mrs. E. W. Williams. 



Cheese 
and Olive 
Sandwiches 



Y± C. stuffed olives 



% t. salt 



C. riced cheese 
Cream or milk 
C. grated pecans 

Chop the olives. Add salt to cheese and mix to 
a smooth paste with a little cream or milk. Stir 
in the olives and pecans. Spread between thin 
slices of bread. 

Mrs. F. D. Bushey. 



Cheese % C. butter C. crushed pineapple 

and Pineapple Yz C. grated cheese % C. chopped pecans 

Sandwiches Cream butter and add cheese. Mix until smooth, 

add pineapple and pecans. Spread thin slices of 
bread with mayonnaise and mixture. Put 
together in pairs, trim off crusts and cut in 
triangles. 

Beth Lamson. 



316 



Pecan Sandwiches and Relishes 



1 cake of cream cheese 1 C. chopped pecans Che ese 

Milk % C. chopped celery and Pepper 

1 C. chopped green pepper Sandwiches 

Cream cheese with small amount of milk. Add 
pecans, celery, and pepper. Spread on buttered 
bread, and cut in desired shapes. 

Mrs. Caroline W. Trotter. 



1 C. seedless raisins Cloves Cn ? e ^ e . . 

V 2 C. grated pecans % t. salt and Raisin 

1 C. grated cheese % C. whipped cream bandwicn 

Grind raisins in food chopper. Add pecans, 
cheese, cloves, salt, and whipped cream. 

Mrs. Wm. Locke. 



1 C. cottage cheese 3 sprigs parsley Cottage 

1 t. salt % C. grated pecans £ hee , se . , 

Cream Sandwiches 

To the cheese add salt, parsley, and pecans. 
Add enough cream to make it of the consistency 
to spread. Spread on buttered graham or rye 
bread. 

Mrs. Lewis R. Salsbury. 



V 2 C. creamed butter 
1 C. grated pecans 
V 2 t. salt 



Lettuce 

Firm, ripe tomatoes 
Hard-cooked egg 
Olives 



Lettuce 
Sandwiches 



Mix butter, nuts, and salt. Spread thin slices 
of bread with mixture, cover with lettuce, a slice 
of tomato, then sliced hard cooked egg. Press 
together and cut into 3-corner shapes. Garnish 
with olives. 

Mrs. Arlington Gorman. 



317 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Cottage 
Cheese 
and Olive 
Sandwiches 



1 C. cottage cheese C. chopped pecans 

*4 C. chopped ripe olives 

Mix ingredients well and spread between slices 
of buttered bread. 

Mrs. E. W. Williams. 



Cream 
Cheese 
Sandwiches 



V2 doz. sweet pickles 
V2 C. grated pecans 



V2 C. cream cheese 
% T. butter 



Grind pickles and combine with other ingre- 
dients. Spread on buttered brown bread. 

Mrs. Hannah Breckenridge. 



Date ^ % lb. raisins % C. grated pecans 

Sandwich ^4 lb. dates Juice of Y2 orange 

Filling Juice of V2 lemon 

Grind raisins, and dates, add pecans, and mix 
with fruit juices. 

Mrs. F. D. Bushey. 



Egg 6 chopped hard-cooked eggs % t. paprika 

Sandwiches 2 T. chopped sweet pickles 1 t. salt 

2 T. chopped celery % C. mayonnaise 

1 C. grated pecans 

Mix ingredients until they are well blended and 
will spread easily. Use a silver knife and spread 
on buttered slices of graham bread. 

Mrs. E. Frylsman. 



Horseradish % C. chopped pecans % C. grated horseradish 

Paste Mayonnaise 

Combine pecans and horseradish with mayon- 
naise. Use for canapes or sandwiches. 

Mrs. Francis C. Williams. 

318 



Pecan Sandwiches and Relishes 



% C. butter Lettuce Club 

Pimento cheese Salad dressing Sandwich 

% C. chopped pecans Olives 

12 slices of bread Tomatoes 

Cream butter and add pecans. Cream the 
pimento cheese. Toast bread. Spread 1 slice with 
nuts and butter, put a teaspoon of dressing on a 
leaf of lettuce and place on the butter and nuts. 
Put on another slice of toast, spread with nut mix- 
ture, a teaspoon of dressing and a lettuce leaf. 
Spread third slice of toast with cheese and place 
the cheese side downward on the lettuce. Fasten 
firmly with 4 toothpicks and put an olive on the 
top of each toothpick. Place 2 slices of tomato on 
top of each sandwich. 

/. Louise Schwandt. 



lb. cream cheese 6 chopped dates Fruit Cheese 

% C. grated pecans Cream Sandwiches 

% C chopped raisins */4 t. salt 

Lettuce leaves 

Combine ingredients and spread on thin slices 
of buttered bread with lettuce leaves between. 

Nell Dooley. 



Tomatoes Lettuce hearts Mint Butter 

Cottage cheese Tartar sauce Sandwiches 

Chopped pecans 

Cut brown bread in thin slices, spread with mint 
butter (butter which has been wrapped in paraf- 
fin paper with sprigs of fresh mint leaves for 
several hours) . Fill with 2 wafer slices of chilled 
peeled tomato spread with cottage cheese and a 
heart of lettuce dipped in tartar sauce. Sprinkle 
each sandwich with chopped pecans. 

G. A. Drake. 



319 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Mosaic IY2 C. raisins Lemon juice 

Sandwiches 1 C. grated pecans Graham and white bread 

Put raisins through food chopper, add pecans 
and enough lemon juice to make a paste that will 
spread easily. Cut 3 slices each of graham and 
white bread. Spread one slice of white bread with 
the above paste, and cover with slice of graham 
bread. Spread with the paste and cover with slice 
of white bread. Make another stack beginning 
with the graham bread, spread with filling, cover 
with slice of white bread, spread with filling and 
cover with graham bread. Place under a weight 
till the filling sets, then cut in % inch slices. Pile 
slices together checkerboard fashion and let set 
again. Slice in % inch slices and serve. 

Mrs. A. H Hampton. 



Pepper Logs % C. grated pecans Boiled salad dressing 

2 T. minced green pepper 1 t. salt 

Combine ingredients, using enough salad dress- 
ing to make a paste. Remove crust from a very 
fresh loaf of bread, cut in thin slices, spread with 
mixture, and roll into logs. Use a toothpick to 
hold the edges in place. 

Mrs. F. O. Johnson. 



Pepper 3 tomatoes V2 C. chopped pecans 

Sandwiches 1 sweet pepper Mayonnaise dressing 

Lettuce 

Chop tomatoes, add chopped peppers, pecans, 
and a dash of mayonnaise. Place on lettuce leaf 
between thin slices of bread that have been spread 
with mayonnaise. 

Mrs. E. J. Deakins. 



320 



Pecan Sandwiches and Relishes 



1 sandwich loaf Lettuce Sandwich 

2 hard-cooked egg yolks Chopped olives Loaf 
Salad dressing 1 C. raisins 

2 hard-cooked egg whites V 2 C. water 

1 t. salt V2 C. sugar 

Cheese 1 T. flour 

Grated pecans 1 t. lemon juice 

Cut sandwich loaf the long way in slices V2 
inch thick or less. Butter on both sides, saving 
two slices which have been buttered on one side 
only. Use these for the top and bottom of the 
loaf. Between 2 of the slices place a filling made 
from the yolks of 2 eggs mixed with salad dress- 
ing. On top of this sandwich spread the whites 
of eggs chopped fine with dressing and sprinkle 
with salt. Place over it a buttered slice of bread. 
Spread with a layer of cheese and pecans mixed 
with salad dressing. Add another slice of bread. 
On this place lettuce leaves, chopped olives, and 
salad dressing. Cover with a slice of bread. 
Spread with a filling made by cooking raisins, 
water, sugar, flour and lemon juice together. 
Place the last slice of bread on top. Cover the 
whole loaf with cheese creamed with enough milk 
to make a fairly thick paste. Decorate with pecan 
halves. Roll in waxed paper and press under 
weight for an hour. Slice through the sections. 

Mrs. Frank Prideaux. 



12 slices thinly cut bread % glass spearmint jelly Spearmint 
1 T. softened butter % C. chopped pecans Sandwiches 

6 candied mint leaves 

Cut bread into shape resembling a mint leaf 
and spread slices with butter. Spread half of the 
pieces with mint jelly. Sprinkle with pecans. 
Join slices of bread and on top of each sandwich 
press a candied mint leaf and a pecan half. 

Mrs. L. Wistrand. 



321 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Raisin 2 C. raisins 2 T. lemon juice 

Sandwich % C. orange juice 1 t. salt 

Paste 1 C. grated pecans 

Wash and dry the raisins. Put through meat 
chopper, add fruit juice, salt, and pecans. Mix 
together until smooth. 

Mrs. Anna M. Richards. 



Raisin 
and Apple 
Sandwiches 



1 C. grated pecans 
1 chopped apple 



% C. ground raisins 



2 T. mayonnaise 

Combine ingredients and spread on sandwiches. 

Mrs. T. A. Rankin. 



Raisin 
and Celery 
Sandwiches 



3 A C. raisins 
% C. celery 



% C. pecans 
1 t. lemon juice 



Put raisins and celery through food chopper. 
Add pecans and moisten with lemon juice. Spread 
on slices of whole wheat bread. 

Mrs. Susan Burtch. 



Raisin 
and Date 
Sandwiches 



% C. seeded raisins 
Vz C. seeded dates 



% C. crystallized ginger 
1 C. grated pecans 



1 C. whipped cream 

Put raisins, dates, and ginger through food 
chopper, add pecans, and mix with whipped cream. 
Spread on thin slices of brown bread. 

Mrs. Martin Crook. 



Vegetable % C. green peas or beans % C. grated pecans 
Sandwiches % C. ground celery Salad dressing 

Mash peas or beans, combine with other ingredi- 
ents, and spread. 

Mrs. Mary S. Hazel. 

322 



Pecan Sandwiches and Relishes 



% C. grated pecans % C. chopped ripe olives Ripe Olive 

% C. chopped celery hearts % C. minced pimentoes Sandwich 

Salad dressing Paste 

Combine ingredients, using sufficient salad 
dressing to make mixture of the proper con- 
sistency to spread. 

Mrs. Frank McQuat. 



6 T. creamed butter *4 C. grated toasted pecans Spanish 

6 chopped ripe olives % t. salt Sandwiches 
chopped pimento 4 T. grated horseradish 

1 t. lemon juice 

Cream butter. Add olives, pimento, pecans, 
salt, and horseradish. When well blended, add 
lemon juice slowly, and spread. 

Mrs. Annie Hills. 



1 tomato 1 hard-cooked egg 

4 slices buttered toast Cucumber 
Salad dressing Pimento 

Pecan halves 

Place a slice of tomato on a small slice of but- 
tered toast and spread tomato with salad dress- 
ing. On the tomato place a thin slice each of 
hard-cooked egg, cucumber, and pimento. Top 
with a pecan half and surround the tomato with 
pecan halves. 

Alice C. Berghojf. 



Tomato 
Canape 



% C. chopped dates % C. chopped crystallized Tutti Frutti 

% C. grated pecans ginger Sandwiches 

"hk C. candied cherries % C. cream cheese 

% C. raisins Salad dressing 

Combine ingredients and moisten with salad 
dressing. Spread on slices of bread cut in fancy 
shapes. 

Dorothy Hahn. 

323 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Rose-Jam Rose leaves Y2 C. water 

Sandwiches Sugar 1 C. sugar 

Chopped pecans 

Pick over rose leaves without washing. Put 
through meat chopper, using finest knife. Mix 
with equal amount of sugar. Make syrup of 1 C. 
sugar and water. Boil syrup without stirring. 
While this is boiling, boil rose leaves and sugar, 
stirring constantly. At the end of 20 minutes, 
add jam to the syrup but do not stir. Spread 
thin slices of bread with soft butter, then with 
rose jam, and sprinkle with pecans. 

Juliana Clark. 



Cheese Balls 2 C. cottage cheese 

Y2 C. grated pecans 
1 t. salt 

Put eggs through 
ents. Roll into balls, 



1 T. melted butter 

2 hard-cooked eggs 
14 t. paprika 

ricer and combine ingredi- 
place on ice, and serve. 

Mrs. Lucy Wakefield. 



Cottage 1 lb. cottage cheese 1 T. minced olives 

Cheese Relish 2 T. cream 1 T. chopped pimento 

1 t. salt x /4 C. chopped pecans 

Add cream and salt to cheese and mash to a 
smooth paste. Dip small rectangular mold in cold 
water and line with waxed paper. Pack cheese 
in 3 layers, using olives, pimento, and pecans, as 
alternate fillings, having the top layer cheese. 
Chill, cut in slices crosswise, unmold on lettuce 
or cress and serve with French dressing. 

Miss Willie M. Bomar. 



324 



Pecan Sandwiches and Relishes 



% C. sugar 1 T. cinnamon drops Apple Relish 

% C. boiling water 4 apples 

^4 C. chopped pecans 

Boil sugar, water, and cinnamon drops together 
in a saucepan. Cover and peel apples and place 
in boiling syrup, turning them over several times 
as they cook, to be properly colored. When done, 
remove from syrup and fill cavities with pecans. 
Serve as a relish or as a breakfast dish with 
cream. 

Mrs. Wm. J. Stephens. 



1 cake of cream cheese V 2 green pepper Cream 
1 T. catsup y 2 C. grated pecans Cheese Relish 

t. grated onion 1 t. salt 

% t. paprika 

Mash cheese, add catsup, onion, chopped pepper, 
pecans, and seasoning. Form into balls, chill, and 
serve. 

Mrs. Caroline W. Trotter. 



1 C. pimento cheese % C. chopped pecans 

Combine cheese and pecans and mold into small 
squares. Place a pecan half on each of the 4 sides. 
Place in refrigerator until firm. 

Mrs. A. H. Suesens. 



Pimento 

Cheese 

Squares 



10 ripe tomatoes 1 lemon Tomato Relish 

2 lb. sugar 2 C. chopped pecans 

Peel tomatoes, cut in slices, add sugar and sliced 
lemon, and cook. When it begins to thicken, add 
pecans and cook slowly until done. 

Mrs. John Votery. 

325 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Jellied Relish % C. lemon juice 

1 C. sugar 

4 cloves 

1 T. gelatine 



% C. cold water 
1 C. boiling water 

V2 C. chopped pecans 
6 sweet pickles 



Boil lemon juice, sugar, and cloves together 5 
minutes. Strain cloves out. Soak gelatine in cold 
water, add boiling water, add sugar and lemon 
juice mixture. Let stand until it begins to set, 
then add pecans and sliced pickles. 

Mrs. Roy D. Spear. 



Spiced 

Tomato 

Relish 



1 qt. chopped green 

tomatoes 
1 qt. chopped apples 
Y2 lb. raisins 
1 C. chopped pecans 
Juice and grated rind 
of 3 oranges 



Juice and grated rind 
of 3 lemons 
3 C. brown sugar 
1 C. sweet cider 
1 t. cinnamon 

1 t. cloves 

2 t. salt 



Combine ingredients, cook until tender, and 
seal. 

Mrs. F. D. Kellison. 



2 T. cream 

Salted pecan halves 



Cheese Relish 2 cheeses 

Y2 t. salt 

/s t. paprika 14 c. grated 'salted" pecans 

. Cream together first 4 ingredients. Form into 
flat bon-bon shapes and press a salted pecan on 
each side. Roll edges in the grated pecans and 
chill. 

Mrs. E. A. Busby. 



Cream 1 pkg. cream cheese 

Cheese Balls 2 T. whipped cream 

1 C. chopped pecans 



1 t. chopped parsley- 
Paprika 
M t. salt 



Mix cream cheese with whipped cream, pecans, 
parsley, paprika, and salt. Roll into balls, decor- 
ate with parsley and pecans, and serve cold. 



Mrs. J. G. Hess. 



326 



CHAPTER XIII 



MISCELLANEOUS PECAN FOODS 

CONSERVES 
PRESERVES 
FRITTERS 
FANCY TOASTS 
SOUPS 



"Variety is the 
spice of life/ 9 



PECAN 
BREADED 




CHAPTER XIII 



Miscellaneous Pecan Foods 

"Who ever heard of pecans in soup," you may 
ask, "or pecan fritters, or pecan conserves, or 
pecan drinks"? 

Judging by the hundreds of recipes received 
for these and other pecan foods of an unexpected 
type, there must be many housewives who have 
not only heard of them, but who favor them 
strongly. 

From the great number of the most unusual —and for 

Every Meal 

pecan recipes received — which are not readily 
classified under the foregoing chapters — we have 
selected a few of those which after thorough test- 
ing and re-checking seem to most merit a place 
in such a recipe book as this. 

They suggest that different dish, which com- 

329 



"From Soup 
to Nuts" 



bines with the merit of being unusual the too 
often overlooked quality of being a real addition 
from the nutritive standpoint to one's cooking 
repertoire. 



330 



Miscellaneous Pecan Foods 



Cranberries Sugar Cranberry 

Chopped pecans Conserve 

Cook cranberries until soft. To each cup of 
berries, add 1 C. sugar. Cook until it jellies, then 
to each pint add y 2 C. chopped pecans. Cook 5 
minutes and seal. 

Mrs. K. O. Reinhart. 



3 C. ground carrots % t. cloves Carrot 

2 C. sugar 14 t. cinnamon Conserve 

Y2 lemon % t. allspice 

% C. chopped pecans 

Add sugar to ground carrots and let stand over 
night. In the morning, add sliced lemon and 
spices and cook in a double boiler till thick. Add 
pecans and cook 5 minutes more. 

/. Louise Schwandt. 



IY2 C. chopped pecans Juice and grated rind of Cranberry 
3 lb. cranberries 2 oranges and Raisin 

2V 2 lb. sugar 1 lb. seeded raisins Conserve 

Juice of 2 lemons y 2 lb. chopped citron 

V2 C. crystallized ginger 

Cook first five ingredients slowly for 10 min- 
utes. Add raisins, citron, and chopped ginger. 
Cook slowly until very thick, stirring often. 

Lucy Douglass. 



4 oranges 2 lbs. chopped raisins Currant 

6 lbs. currants 6 lbs. sugar Conserve 

1 C. chopped pecans 

Peel oranges, cook rind until transparent, 
dram, and chop. Cook currants and put through 
a sieve. Add orange pulp, rind, raisins, sugar, 
and pecans. Cook 20 minutes. 

Mrs. W. Howe. 

331 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Apricot 5 lbs. apricots Juice of 2 lemons 

Conserve 2 C. water 5 C. sugar 

4 C. raisins 2 C. chopped pecans 

Cut apricots in half and remove pits. Add 
water and cook slowly until the pulp may be easily 
pressed through a coarse strainer. Chop raisins, 
and add lemon and sugar to the apricot pulp. 
Cook slowly until a thick syrup is formed. Add 
chopped pecans. 

Isabelle D. Abren. 



Fig Conserve 1 qt. figs % C. water 

1V 2 lb. sugar Spices 
% C. candied orange peel 2 C. raisins 

2 C. chopped pecans 

Wash figs and cover with sugar. Let stand 4 
hours. Add water, spices, and orange peel. Cook 
until figs are tender. Add raisins and cook until 
very thick. Add pecans and cook 5 minutes. 

Mrs. H. C. Griffin. 



Gooseberry 
Conserve 



Grape 
Conserve 



1% qt. gooseberries 1 qt. sugar 

V2 qt. grated pineapple 1 lb. raisins 

4 C. chopped pecans 

Boil gooseberries in water until the skins burst. 
Add pineapple, sugar, and raisins. Boil until 
syrup begins to thicken. Add pecans, mix well 
and seal. 

Nell Dooley. 



7 lbs. grapes 
5 lbs. sugar 



4 large oranges 
3 lemons 
4 C chopped pecans 

Seed grapes. Use peel and pulp, add sugar, 
oranges, lemons, and pecans. Boil until thick. 

Mrs. G. W. Simons. 



332 



Miscellaneous Pecan Foods 



1 lb. grapes 
1 lb. sugar 



1 C. raisins 

Juice of 2 oranges 
1 C chopped pecans 



Wash grapes and remove pulp. Cook pulp a 
few minutes, then remove seeds by putting 
through a sieve. Put skins through a food 
grinder, and mix with pulp, sugar, chopped 
raisins, and orange juice. Cook until slightly 
thick, add pecans, and cook until mixture jells. 

Mrs. L. A. Lind. 



Grape 
and Raisin 
Conserve 



1 qt. gooseberries 1 pt. cherries 

1 pt. currants 1 can grated pineapple 

1 pt. raspberries 8 C. sugar 

4 C. chopped pecans 

Combine ingredients and cook very slowly until 
thick. 

Erskine Murray. 



Mixed Fruit 
Conserve 



2Y2 doz. small peaches 1 t. powdered cloves Peach 
1 T. cinnamon 2 C. brown sugar Conserve 

1 C chopped pecans 

Peel peaches, mash, and cook in a very little 
water. When soft, add sugar and spices and cook 
% hour. Add pecans and cook i/ 2 houY longer. 

Mrs. C. E. Bourdon. 



6 oranges 11 C. cold water Orange 

1 lemon 7 C. sugar Marmalade 

1 C chopped pecans 

Peel oranges, removing all white skin, and slice. 
Slice lemon with rind on. Cover oranges and 
lemon with cold water. Let stand 24 hours. Boil 
3 hours, add sugar and pecans and boil 1 hour. 

Mrs. Adam Holtslander. 

333 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Cherry 2 C. pitted cherries 1 orange 

Conserve 3 C. sugar V 2 C. chopped pecans 

Cook cherries and sugar until thick. Add 
orange peel cut fine, and pecans, and cook until 
it is well heated through. 

Minnie B. Huwald. 



Green Tomato 1 peck green tomatoes 1 lb. sugar 
Conserve 1 dozen oranges 1 lb. tomato juice 

4 C. chopped pecans 

Put tomatoes and oranges through the food 
chopper separately. Combine the pulps. Make a 
syrup of the sugar and tomato juice and boil until 
clear. Add pulp to this and boil until thick. Add 
pecans just before removing from the fire. 

Mrs. Carl McAllister. 



Pineapple 2 lbs. fresh pineapple 1 lb. sugar 

Conserve Juice of 2 limes % C. water 

or 1 lemon 1 C chopped pecans 

Remove skin and eyes from pineapple and cut 
in *4 inch cubes. Add fruit juice and water and 
simmer over a slow fire until fruit is transparent 
and the syrup is thick. Remove from fire and 
add pecans. 

Mrs. Walker C. Earle. 



Plum 2 lbs. blue plums 1 lb. chopped pecans 

Conserve 2 lbs. sugar Juice of 1 lemon 

Cut plums in small pieces. Cook first three 
ingredients slowly for two hours. Add lemon 
juice and seal. 

Mrs. G. L. Davis. 



334 



Miscellaneous Pecan Foods 



1 lb. figs Juice of 2 oranges Preserved Figs 

1 C. chopped pecans 4 T. sugar 

2 t. lemon juice Marshmallows 

Stuff figs with pecans. Bring lemon juice, 
orange juice, and sugar to a boil. Place figs in 
syrup and cook until figs are soft and syrup thick. 
Cut marshmallows over figs after putting in serv- 
ing dish. 

Ella Mathews. 



3 lbs. chopped plums 1 lb. chopped pecans Plum Jam 

3 lbs. sugar 1 lb. seeded raisins 

3 oranges Juice of 2 lemons 

Combine ingredients and cook until the mixture 
jells. 

Sarah L. Callaway. 



1 grapefruit Water Prince ef 

1 orange Sugar Wales 

1 lemon 1 C. chopped pecans Marmalade 

Put fruit through food chopper, cover with 
water, and let stand over night. Cook 20 min- 
utes, let cool, and stand over night again. Add 
1 C. sugar to each cup of fruit, cook 30 minutes, 
add pecans, and cook 5 minutes. 

Mrs. L. E. Haymaker. 



1 lb. prunes IV2 C. sugar Prune 

2 C. warm water % C. chopped pecans Conserve 
1 orange, grated rind and 

juice 

Soak prunes in 2 C. warm water over night. 
Remove seeds and cut prunes in small pieces. Add 
orange, sugar, and water from the prunes, and 
boil until quite thick. Add nuts and boil 5 min- 
utes more. 

Mrs. Leola Bullivant. 

335 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



6 lbs. rhubarb 1 lb. dried apricots 

8 lbs. sugar 4 C. cold water 

% lb. candied ginger 1 C. chopped pecans 

Strip rhubarb of skin and cut in short pieces. 
Mix with sugar and chopped candied ginger. Let 
stand 24 hours. Wash and quarter dried apricots 
and soak in cold water 24 hours. Combine the 
two mixtures, bring slowly to a boil and boil 1 
hour. Add pecans just before removing from 
heat. 

Cassandra 0. Phelps. 



4 lbs. rhubarb Sugar 
1 orange Juice of 1 lemon 

2 C. chopped pecans 

Prepare rhubarb as for sauce. Add thinly sliced 
orange. Measure and add % C. sugar to each cup 
of fruit and juice. Cook slowly about 45 minutes 
or until thick. Add lemon juice and pecans. 

Mrs. John A. Knaak. 



3 lbs. strawberries 3% lbs. sugar 

2 C. chopped pecans 

Wash, hull and drain berries. Add sugar and 
mash. Add nuts and cook over a slow fire until 
thick. 

Mrs. G. M. Forger. 



4 C. sugar 1 qt. strawberries 

1 C. water 1 C. chopped pineapple 

% C. chopped pecans 

Boil sugar and water together until a very thick 
syrup is formed.. Add berries and pineapple 
slowly. Cook until thick. Just before removing 
from stove add pecans and cook for one minute. 

Mrs. J. H. Grush. 



336 



Miscellaneous Pecan Foods 



3 lb. rhubarb 2 oranges Rhubarb and 

3 lb. sugar 1 small can grated pineapple Pineapple 

1 C chopped pecans Jam 

Cook rhubarb until tender, and add sugar. 
After it has boiled, add oranges that have been 
run through the food chopper — rind and pulp — 
and pineapple. Cook 10 minutes, add pecans, and 
cook 10 minutes longer. 

Mrs. A. Ariel Malsbary. 



4 apples 2 T. lemon juice Apple Rings 

Y2 C. grated pecans 1 t. cinnamon in Batter 

V2 C. sugar V2 t. nutmeg 

Powdered sugar 

Pare apples and cut in eighths or rings. Dip 
in grated pecans, sprinkle with sugar, lemon juice 
and spice. Dip in following batter, cook in deep 
fat, and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

1 C. flour % C. milk 

V2 t. salt 2 eggs 

1 T. butter 

Mix dry ingredients, add milk, beaten egg yolks 
and butter. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. 

Mrs. N. W. Voigt. 



3 bananas % t. salt Banana 

Y2 C. grated pecans % C. milk Fritters 

1 C. pastry flour 1 t. lemon juice 

1% t. baking powder 1 egg 

2 T. sugar 

Mash bananas, add nuts, flour sifted with bak- 
ing powder, sugar, and salt, milk, lemon juice, and 
beaten egg. Beat well, drop by spoonfuls into 
deep fat, drain on paper, and sprinkle with pow- 
der ed sugar. 

Mrs. Charles E. Ford. 

337 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Apple Fritters 1 C. chopped apples iy 2 t. baking powder 

V2 C. sugar % C. milk 

V2 t. salt 1 egg 

IV2 C. flour 1 C. chopped pecans 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add beaten egg, 
milk, apples and pecans. Drop by spoonfuls in 
deep fat, and drain on brown paper. 

Arabelle V. Medley. 



Apricot 1 C. flour 1 T. butter 

Fritters V2 t. salt 1 C. cooked apricots 

% C. water 1 T. sugar 

2 eggs V2 C. chopped pecans 

Combine ingredients, folding in the stiffly 
beaten egg whites last. Drop by spoonfuls in 
deep fat. Drain on brown paper. 

Mrs. C. N. Nelson. 



Bananas in 
Batter 



Orange 
Fritters 



4 bananas 2 T. grated pecans 

1 T. lemon juice Powdered sugar 

Remove skins from bananas. Cut in halves 
lengthwise and crosswise. Roll in pecans, sprinkle 
with lemon juice and powdered sugar. Dip into 
following batter, then cook in deep fat. 



iy 3 C. flour 
2 t. baking powder 



% t. salt 



% C. milk 
1 egg 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add milk and 
beaten egg. Mrs. N. W. Voigt. 



4 slices of bread 1 C. grated pecans 

1 C. orange juice 1 egg 

Remove crusts from bread and cut in strips 
2x4 inches. Drip bread in orange juice, then in 
grated pecans and beaten egg. Cook in deep fat. 
Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve hot. 

Mrs. K. Archer. 

338 



Miscellaneous Pecan Foods 



2 C. cooked cereal 1 t. baking powder Cereal 

2 eggs 2 T. flour Fritters 

1 t. salt y 2 C. milk 
V2 C. chopped pecans Flour 

Beat egg yolks, add milk, and combine with 
cereal. Beat until smooth, add salt and nuts. Sift 
baking powder with 2 T. flour and add to mixture. 
Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites and flour suffi- 
cient to make drop batter. Cook in deep fat. 

Marie Enlalie Moran. 



1 C. corn 1 t. salt Corn Fritters 

1 C. milk 21/2 C. flour 

1 egg 2 t. baking powder 

2 T. sugar 1 C. chopped pecans 

Combine ingredients, beat well, and drop by 
spoonfuls in deep fat. Serve with maple syrup. 

Mrs. Herbert N. Cook. 



1 C. dried prunes 2 t. baking powder Prune Fritters 

1 egg V2 C. flour 

V2 C. milk V2 t. soda 

% t. salt ^ 4 T. butter 

V2 C. chopped pecans 

Wash prunes in boiling water. Soak over night 
in cold water. Remove stones and cut in quar- 
ters. Beat the egg, add milk, salt, flour sifted 
with soda and baking powder, melted butter, and 
fold in prunes and pecans. Pour in buttered pan 
to depth of y% inch. Bake. Brush top with melted 
butter, sprinkle with powdered sugar, cut into 
squares, and serve hot. Mr ^ W m. M. Jones. 



4 slices bread Vq lb. cream cheese Cheese Toast 

% C. grated pecans 

Slice cheese thinly and place on slices of bread. 
Sprinkle with nuts, put in a hot oven, and toast. 
Serve hot. MrSt Nim Woods . 



339 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Breakfast 
Food 



1 part pecans 

2 parts dried fruit 

3 parts prepared bran or 



Corn flakes 
Wheat flakes 
Rice flakes 



Mix ingredients and put through a vegetable 
grinder. This mixture will keep indefinitely and 
may be used alone or with fruit or berries. 

Doctor A. J. Gerlach. 



Cheese and 1 T. butter 
Rice Toast 1 T. flour 

1 C. milk 



V2 C. cheese 

V2 C. cooked rice 

% C. chopped pecans 
V2 t. salt 



Make a white sauce of first three ingredients. 
Add cheese, cut in small pieces, and stir until 
melted. Add cooked rice, pecans, and salt. Serve 



on buttered toast. 



Mrs. L. F. Breiden. 



Cinnamon 4 slices bread 2 T. brown sugar 

Toast 3 T. butter 1 t. cinnamon 

2 T. grated pecans 

Remove crusts from bread, toast on one side, 
and cut each slice into 3 oblong pieces. Cream 
together butter, sugar, and cinnamon. Spread the 
untoasted side with the butter mixture and 
sprinkle with pecans. Put in the oven till sugar 
melts, and serve at once. 

Mrs. Edith C. Armbruster. 



Cocoa 4 t. cocoa 4 t. sugar 

2 t. grated pecans 4 T. milk 

Boiling water 

Combine first 4 ingredients and add sufficient 
boiling water for 4 cups. 

Mrs. J. D. Gambu. 



340 



Miscellaneous Pecan Foods 



% C. cream of wheat V2 C. raisins £* eam of 

4 C. boiling water % C. chopped pecans Wheat 

Add boiling water and raisins to the cream of 
wheat. Cook in double boiler about 20 minutes. 
Add pecans and serve with cream and sugar. 

Mrs. Minnie Holmes. 



4 slices bread 4 t. sugar Coffee Cake 

4 T. grated pecans loast 

Toast thin slices of bread on one side. Butter 
the other side, sprinkle with sugar and pecans and 
put back in oven to toast nuts. 

Mrs. E. M. Drake. 



3 lemons % C. raisins Mincemeat 

4 apples 1 C. chopped pecans 
2 C. currants 1% C. sugar 

1 t. spice 

Cook lemon peel in 2 waters until tender. Mash 
through a sieve. Chop apples, mix with the lemon 
pulp and juice, and add currants, raisins, pecans, 
sugar, and spice. Mix well and store in jars. 

Mrs. S. P. Velter. 



% C. water 1% C. sugar Pecan Powder 

2 C. chopped pecans 

Put water in pan, add sugar and stir until dis- 
solved. Add pecans and cook without stirring 
until it turns caramel color. Turn out on an oiled 
slab to cool. When cold, grind to a coarse powder. 
Keep in glass jars and use for desserts. 

Mrs. Mclntyre. 



341 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Filled Kisses 2 egg whites Whipped cream 

3 oz. powdered sugar y 2 C. grated pecans 

Beat egg whites until stiff, then very gently 
fold in powdered sugar. Fill a tablespoon with 
the mixture and turn on a sheet of white paper 
placed on a slightly damp board. Put in a cool 
oven for 20 minutes, then open the door and let 
stand 10 minutes longer, so as to form a thick 
crust. Remove from paper, take out the moist 
center carefully. When cold, fill with sweetened 
and flavored whipped cream to which pecans have 
been added. Put shells together with cream show- 
ing between the halves. 

Mrs. M. B. Luketic. 



Tomato 1 can tomato soup y 2 C. grated pecans 

Cheese Toast 1 small chopped onion 1 egg 

V 2 lb. American cheese 1 t. Worcestershire Sauce 

Heat soup in a double boiler. Add onion sauted 
in butter. When soup is hot, add cheese cut into 
small pieces. Add pecans, well beaten egg, and 
sauce. Mix thoroughly. Serve on toast, toasted 
crackers, or use cold as a sandwich filling. 

Mrs. Wm. M. Jones. 



Toast Sticks 6 slices of bread y 2 C. ground cocoanut 

2 eggs y 2 C. chopped pecans 

Trim crusts from bread and cut each slice into 

3 oblong pieces. Toast slightly. Dip bread into 
beaten eggs, then into cocoanut and pecans which 
have been mixed together. Place on greased pan 
and bake in hot oven until egg is well hardened 
and cocoanut delicately browned. 

Hubert Kucera. 



342 



Miscellaneous Pecan Foods 



1 lb. mild cheese * 1 T. flour Rarebit 

1 t. mustard Vz t. salt 

1 T. butter % C. milk 

1 C chopped pecans 

Mix ingredients in order given. When mixture 
is smooth, remove from fire and add pecans. 
Serve on toast or crackers. 

Mrs. Lawrence Smith. 



Pecans Warm water Malted Milk 

Cream 

Pulverize pecans, mix with warm water and 
add a little cream. If desired, a teaspoon of cocoa 
or chocolate may be added. 

May E. Reed. 



Crackers or wafers Salt Toasted 

Cheese Paprika Cheese Wafers 

Grated pecans 

Spread crackers or wafers with small quantity 
of cheese seasoned with salt and paprika and 
pecans. Brown in oven. M „.. N , w . Voigt . 



1 C. stewed tomatoes IV2 T. grated cheese Tomato 
V2 C. chopped pecans V2 C. whipped cream Delicacy 

4 slices buttered toast 

Mix tomatoes, pecans and cheese and cook 
slowly until cheese is melted. Stir in whipped 
cream, heat, and serve on toast. 

Beulah Chamberlain. 

343 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Stuffed Figs 1 lb. figs 1 C. chopped pecans 

*/4 C. grated orange rind 1% C. honey 

IV2 C. water 

Steam figs until tender. Open each one care- 
fully with a knife or scissors, scrape out the pulp, 
and mix with orange rind and pecans. Refill figs 
with mixture. Cook honey and water to a syrup 
and simmer the figs in this for 15 minutes. Turn 
into a jar and pour the hot syrup over them. 

Mrs. W. J. Thayer. 



Cream of 2 C. sweet corn % T. butter 

Corn Soup 1 qt. milk 2 T. flour 

2 t. salt V2 C. grated pecans 

Cut corn very fine, add to milk, and cook in 
double boiler 15 minutes. Add salt, butter mixed 
with cornstarch and pecans. Cook until it thick- 

ens - Mrs. Carl Gottlieb. 



Pea Soup 2 C. peas 1 C. grated pecans 

IV2 C. strained tomatoes 1 t. salt 

Cook peas until tender, rub through colander. 
Add tomatoes, pecans and salt. Reheat and serve. 

Mrs. J. A. Ellquist. 



Celery Soup 2 stalks diced celery 2 T. butter 

1 sliced onion 2 T. flour 

2 C. cold water 2 C. hot milk 

Vs t. salt % C. grated pecans 

Combine first four ingredients and simmer for 
an hour. Melt butter, add flour, and combine with 
hot milk. Add to first mixture, then add pecans. 

Mrs. C. M. Needbalske. 



344 



Miscellaneous Pecan Foods 



1 E?' , milk 1 strained tomatoes Tomato Bisque 

2 T. butter 1 t. salt with Cheese 

3 T. flour 1 C. grated cheese 

V2 C. grated pecans 

Heat milk. Blend butter and flour. Add hot 
milk slowly and stir smooth. Stir strained toma- 
toes into this. Add salt. Just before serving, add 
cheese and pecans. When serving, add a teaspoon 
of whipped cream to each plate. 



4 potatoes 1 t. salt Cream of 

1 S? 1 ?* 2 C. milk Potato Soup 

2 T. butter y 2 c. grated pecans 
2 T. flour 1 t. chopped parsley 

Boil potatoes with onion until soft. Remove 
onion, mash potatoes, add butter, flour, and salt. 
Add milk to 2 C. of the potato water, bring to boil- 
ing point, add potatoes and let come to a boil. 
Remove from fire and add nuts. Place a little 
parsley in each soup plate, pour in soup and serve. 

F. Brewster. 



I Bf* i? 1 ! 1 ^ 2 C ' s P in ach water Cream of 

1 T flour" J r , Spinach Sou » 

4 1. nour 1 C, whipped cream 

1 C. spinach 14 C. grated pecans 

Heat milk, blend with butter and flour, and 
cook until it thickens. Add strained spinach with 
water, and seasoning. Bring to a boil. Just 
before serving, stir in the whipped cream and 
pecans. 



345 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Potato Soup 2 potatoes IV2 C. water 

1 large onion 2 t. salt 

% sweet green pepper 2 chopped tomatoes 

2 T. grated pecans Y2 T. Worcestershire Sauce 

1 t. butter 

Boil ingredients together until potatoes and 
onion are tender. Just before serving, add butter. 

Grace H. Thornton. 



Frozen Soup 2 T. cornstarch % C. pineapple 

% C. cold water % C. grated pecans 

% C. sugar 1 C. grapefruit juice 

14 t. salt % C. pineapple juice or 
1% C. boiling water pulp 

Add cornstarch to cold water and stir until 
smooth. Add boiling water, sugar, and salt. Cook 
until clear. Add pecans and fruit juice or pulp, 
heat through, and remove from fire. Serve 

chilled. Mrs. Wilhemina Martin. 



Vegetable 4 C. milk Bay leaf 

Soup % C. grated pecans 2 C. tomatoes 

y 2 onion 2 t. sugar 

6 cloves Yz C. butter 

Sprig parsley V2 T. salt 

Scald milk with pecans, onion, cloves, parsley 
and bay leaf. Remove seasoning and strain 
through a sieve. Cook tomatoes with sugar, and 
rub through a sieve. Add tomato mixture to milk 
and pour over butter and salt. 

Mrs. Wm. M. Jones. 

346 



Miscellaneous Pecan Foods 



1 pt. spinach 1 C. milk Spinach Soup 

1 chopped potato 1 t. salt 

1 minced onion 1 T. flour 

1 T. rice % C. grated pecans 

Shred spinach, add potato, onion, rice, and 
water, and cook until well done. Add milk and 
salt, thicken with flour, and stir in pecans just 
before removing from fire. 

Agnes Volentine. 



1 C. grated pecans 1 t. salt Tomato Soup 

1 minced onion sugar 
1 pt. strained tomatoes 1 pt. hot water 

1 T. flour 

Cover pecans with water and simmer 1 hour. 
Combine tomatoes, onion, salt, sugar and hot 
water and cook in another utensil. Strain the nut 
liquid into the tomato mixture and thicken with 

^ our * Odessa Williamson. 



1 pt. strained tomatoes 1 t. sugar Tomato Bisque 

2 T. butter % t. baking soda 

2 T. minute tapioca IV2 pts. hot milk or cream 

1 t. salt % C. grated pecans 

To the tomatoes add butter, tapioca, salt, sugar, 
and soda. Cook 15 minutes in a double boiler. 
When ready to serve, stir the hot soup gradually 
into milk or cream which has been heated to the 
boiling point. 



1 pt. peas 1 T. flour Cream of 

1 pt. milk 1 t. salt Pea Soup 

1 T. butter % C. grated pecans 

Boil peas ; when soft, press through a colander. 
Heat milk in double boiler. Melt butter, add flour, 
and combine with hot milk. When thick, add 
strained peas and pecans. 

Mrs. S. M. Mosby. 

347 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Okra Soup 2 T. rice 2 C. stewed okra 

1 tomato 2 T. grated pecans 

1 onion 1 t. salt 

IV2 pt. water 

Boil rice, tomato, and minced onion in 1 C. 
water until rice is tender. Boil okra a few min- 
utes and put through colander. Add pecans and 
114 pt. of water. Boil 10 minutes and serve. 

Grace H. Thornton. 



348 



CHAPTER XIV 



BALANCED MENUS 

FOR 
SPRING 
SUMMER 
AUTUMN 
WINTER 



To live well — eat 
properly balanced 
foods. 



CHAPTER XIV 



Balanced Menus 

Now that you have read — and perhaps tested — 
a greater number of pecan recipes than you ever 
before knew were in existence, the question prob- 
ably arises in your mind, "What is their place in 
the menu? How can I use these pecan salads, 
these pecan entrees, these pecan breads, these 
pecan desserts, etc. to best advantage to assure a 
properly balanced diet for myself and my family?" 

The menus which follow are planned to answer 
that question for you as fully as it is possible to 
do so without an exact knowledge of those who 
constitute your family group, their type of activity 
and their food requirements. As a guide, these 
menus should be helpful in any home, if the policy 
of substituting foods of an equal or similar food 
value is pursued when it is necessary to make 
changes. 

Menu-making, after all, is the application of 
common sense plus scientific knowledge of food 
values and characteristics, to assure proper bal- 
ance. If changes are made from the menus which 
follow, keep these points in mind. 

Use whole grain cereals, plenty of fresh fruits 
and green vegetables, one uncooked vegetable and 
fruit each day, one pint of milk a day for adults, 
and one quart a day for children. 

If more than one vegetable is used in the meal, 
use one starchy and one green. 

Do not multiply starchy foods in the meal, such 

351 



as potatoes and beans, or potatoes and macaroni 
or rice. 

If pecans are omitted from the diet once or 
twice a week during the period when it is most 
difficult to secure a supply, do not overlook the 
necessity of providing increased proportions of 
the supplementary foods, such as eggs, cheese, 
milk, and vegetables, each of which supplies cer- 
tain food qualities which are present in a desirable 
form in pecan nuts. 

The ordinary food staples, such as butter, milk 
and cream should be added according to require- 
ment, larger amounts being necessary for those 
of arduous occupations. 

Suggestions for the Whole Year's Menus 

are readily worked out, using as a basis the 
luncheon and dinner menus which follow, covering 
twenty days in each of the four seasons, and the 
breakfast menus for the ten-day cycle, which 
affords a welcome relief from the ordinary break- 
fast monotony. While breakfasts are based 
largely on the use of staple fruits and cereals, the 
introduction of pecan dishes here is a pleasing and 
desirable change; while, for the noon meal and 
the evening meal, an even greater variety of 
dietary is made available. 

Where the noon meal is the heavy meal of the 
day, the dinner menu may be used at noon, and 
the menus classed as luncheon menus may be used 
for the evening meal, or supper. 

Pecan recipes are designated by an * showing 
that the recipe may be found in this book. Recipes 
not using pecans may be selected from a standard 
general cook book. 



352 



Balanced Menus 



Summer Menus 



Breakfast 
Orange Juice 



Corn Flakes 
Toast 



Milk 



Coffee 



Luncheon 

Creamed New Peas 
Hot Biscuits* 
Head Lettuce — Mayonnaise 
Iced Fruit Salad* 



Dinner 

Cauliflower Polonaise* 
Buttered New Potatoes 

Sliced Tomatoes 
Cherry Batter Pudding* 



Breakfast 

Cantaloupe 
Soft-cooked Eggs 

Coffee 



Toast 



Luncheon 

Macaroni and Cheese 
Vegetable Salad 
Sliced Peaches 



Dinner 

Stuffed Tomatoes* 
String Beans 
Hash Brown Potatoes 
Jellied Celery Salad* 
Raspberry Shortcake 



Breakfast 

Grapefruit 
Puffed Wheat 
Toast 

Coffee 



Milk 
Marmalade 



Luncheon 

Potato Patties* 
Cucumber Boat Salad 
Frozen Pineapple Dessert 



Dinner 
Goldenrod Omelet* 



Spinach 



Buttered Beets 



Keystone Salad* 
Creamy Rice Pudding 



Breakfast 

Sliced Bananas 
Bran Flakes 

Toast Coffee 



Luncheon 

Corn on the Cob 
Cottage Cheese Salad* 
Brown Raisin Bread* 
Plums 



Milk 



Dinner 

Potato Puff* Creamed Peas 

Stuffed Tomato Salad 
Cherry Pie* 



♦Recipe may be located in this book, by reference to Index. 

353 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Summer Menus 



Breakfast 

Orange Juice 
Date Muffins* 

Coffee 



Jam 



Luncheon 

Eggs in Potato Nests 
Celery and Radishes 
Orange Bavarian Cream* 
Small Cakes 



Dinner 

Stuffed Peppers* Buttered Carrots 
Mint Jelly Salad* 
Watermelon Sherbet 



Breakfast 

Fresh Apricots 
Grape Nuts Milk 
Toast Fruit Conserve* 

Coffee 



Luncheon 

Star Vegetable Salad* 
Orange Bread* Cheese Relish 
Peach Cobbler 



Dinner 

Stuffed Squash* 
Escalloped Potatoes Celery 
Pineapple Skillet Cake 



Waffles* 



Breakfast 

Raspberries 

Maple Syrup 

Coffee 



Luncheon 

Cheese Souffle* Potato Salad 

Steamed Cherry Pudding* 



Dinner 

Lima Bean Cakes* 
Creamed Carrots 
Pear Salad 
Cocoanut Custard Pie 



Breakfast 

Halved Oranges 
Poached Eggs on Toast 
Coffee 



Luncheon 

Cottage Cheese and 
Olive Sandwiches* 
Combination Salad 
Sliced Peaches Date Rocks* 



Dinner 

Baked Potatoes Creole Celery* 



Radishes 
Pineapple Parfait* 

♦Recipe may be located in this book, by reference to Index. 

354 



Balanced Menus 



Summer Menus 



Breakfast 
Egg Plums 



Shredded Wheat 
Toast 



Milk 



Coffee 



Luncheon 

Potatoes au Gratin 
Jellied Egg Salad* 
Graham Biscuits* 
Raspberries and Cream 



Dinner 

Baked Tomatoes* 
Buttered Rice Cucumber Salad 
Blueberry Pudding 



Breakfast 

Cantaloupe 
Cream of Wheat 

Toast Coffee 



Luncheon 

Green Pepper Omelet* 
Cabbage Salad 
Apple Dumpling 



Dinner 

Platter of Vegetables* 
Head Lettuce Salad 
French Dressing 

Pimento Cheese Relish 
Peach Ice Cream* 



Milk 



Luncheon 

Macaroni and Cheese 
Beet Salad* 
Lemon Ice 



Dinner 

Vegetable Macedoine* 

String Beans 
Stuffed Tomato Salad* 
Raspberry Charlotte 



Luncheon 

Spinach Souffle 
Hard-cooked Egg Garnish 
Creamed Potatoes 
Blueberries Sponge Cake* 



Dinner 

Rice Croquettes* 
Peas in Pattie Cases 
Shamrock Salad* 
Peach Melba 



♦Recipe may be located in this book, by reference to Index. 

355 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Summer Menus 



Luncheon 

Watermelon Log Cabin Salad* 
Frosted Pinwheel Rolls* 
Apple Pie* 



Dinner 

Panned Tomatoes* 
Lyonnaise Potatoes 
Coleslaw Cooked Dressing 
Snow Pudding Custard Sauce 



Luncheon 

Club Sandwiches* Radishes 
Date Pudding* 



Dinner 

Celery and Tomato Loaf* 
Baked Potatoes 
Lettuce French Dressing* 

Refrigerator Cake* 



Luncheon 

Eggs in Tomato Shells 
Hashed Brown Potatoes 
Orange Cups* 



Dinner 

Spanish Rice* 
Cauliflower Butter Parsley Sauce 
Cheese Crackers 
Strawberry Ice Cream* 



Luncheon 

Cheese in Ramekins* 
Stuffed Tomato Salad* 
Watermelon 



Dinner 

Stuffed Egg Plant* Potato Balls 
Watercress and Cucumber Salad 
Raspberry Batter Pudding 



*Recipe may be located in this book, by reference to Index. 

356 



Balanced Menus 



Summer Menus 



Luncheon 

Vegetable Salad* 
Cheese Biscuits* 
Apple Whip 



Dinner 

Peppers Stuffed with Rice* 
Creamed Carrots Celery 
Cherry Pie 



Luncheon 

Welsh Rarebit 
Fresh Fruit 
Lazy Daisy Date Cake* 



Dinner 

Stuffed Potato Loaf* 
Sugar Peas 
Celery Salad* 
Cantaloupe 



Lettuce 



Luncheon 

Eggs in Cream 

Vegetable Dressing* 
Bread Pudding* 



Dinner 

Watermelon Cocktail* 
Potatoes on the Half Shell* 
Creamed String Beans 
Peach Ice Cream 



Luncheon 

Spanish Sandwiches* 
Cream Cheese Balls* 
Blackberry Shortcake 



Dinner 

Creamed Celery in Croustades* 

Duchesse Potatoes 
Cucumber Slices on Mint Leaves 
Pineapple Pie* 



♦Recipe may be located in this book, by reference to Index. 

357 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Autumn Menus 



Breakfast 

Grapes 
Cream of Wheat 

Toast Coffee 



Milk 



Luncheon 

Eggs au Gratin 
Uncooked Vegetable Salad* 
Apple Pudding 



Dinner 

Bean and Tomato Loaf* 
Creamed Peas 
Head Lettuce Salad 
Neapolitan Sponge* 



Breakfast 

Orange Slices 
Corn Griddle Cakes* 
Maple Syrup 
Coffee 



Luncheon 

Cream of Celery Soup 
Apple Butter Raisin Biscuits* 
Cup Custard 



Dinner 

Celery in Potato Border* 
Cranberry Salad 
Snowballs Chocolate Sauce* 



Breakfast 

Stewed Prunes 
Scrambled Eggs on Toast 
Coffee 



Luncheon 

Potato and Vegetable Salad* 
Sal tines 

Sliced Peaches Date Loaf* 



Dinner 

Rice Loaf* Italian Beets 

Fruit Salad 
Chocolate Pie* 



Breakfast 
Grapefruit 
Bran Flakes 

Toast Marmalade 
Coffee 



Milk 



Luncheon 

Baked Beans 
Boston Brown Bread* 
Cabbage Salad 
Grape Sherbet 



Dinner 

Croquettes with Tomato Sauce* 
Baked Potatoes 
Celery 
Baked Banana Dessert* 



♦Recipe may be located in this book, by reference to Index. 

358 



Balanced Menus 



Autumn Menus 



Breakfast 

Apricots 
Puffed Wheat 
Bran Muffins* 



Milk 
Coffee 



Luncheon 

Cheese Omelet 
Hashed Brown Potatoes 
Stuffed Tomato Salad 
Saltines 



Dinner 

Escalloped Corn* 
Asparagus — Hollandaise Sauce 
Jellied Pineapple Salad* 
Orange Cup Cakes 



Breakfast 

Orange Juice 
Coffee Bread* 
Grapefruit Marmalade 
Coffee 



Luncheon 

Vegetable Soup 
Bean Salad* Hot Biscuits 

Apple Dumplings 



Dinner 

Breaded Tomatoes* 
Mashed Potatoes 
Head Lettuce Salad Cheese Straws 
Patrician Cream* 



Breakfast 
Sliced Bananas 
Corn Flakes 

Toast Jam 
Coffee 



Milk 



Luncheon 

Eggs in Croustades 
Tomato Shamrock Salad* 
Raisin Bread 



Dinner 

Cheese Stuffed Potatoes 
Creamed Celery 
Jellied Relish* 
New England Plum Pudding* 

* Recipe may be located in this book, by reference to Index. 



Breakfast 

Baked Apples 
Soft Cooked Eggs 

Coffee 



Toast 



Luncheon 

Sweet Potatoes in Ramekins* 
Spinach Toast Points 

Cider Jelly- 



Dinner 

Tomato and Rice Loaf* 
Buttered Peas 
Cabbage Salad 
Lemon Ice Cream* 



359 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Autumn Menus 



Breakfast 
White Grapes 



Oatmeal 

Toast 



Milk 



Marmalade 
Coffee 



Luncheon 

Apple Fritters* 
Creamed Potatoes 
Stewed Cranberries Small Cakes 



Dinner 

Red Bean Loaf* Glaeed Onions 
Celery Salad 
Grapefruit Meringue Pie* 



Waffles 



Breakfast 

Halved Oranges 

Maple Syrup 
Coffee 



Luncheon 

Tomato Cheese Toast* 
Head Lettuce Salad 
Chocolate Pudding' 



Dinner 

Panned Egg Plant* 
Baked Potatoes 
Apple Relish* 

Fruit Cup 



Rocks 



Luncheon 

Mexican Rice Croquettes* 
Sliced Tomatoes 
Banana Whip* 



Dinner 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes* 
Sauted Apple Rings 
Celery Salad 
Grape Float* 



Luncheon 

Oatmeal Mush* Maple Syrup 
Apricot Salad 
Kisses 



Dinner 

Vermicelli Loaf* 
Buttered Asparagus 
Head Lettuce Salad 

Cake Sandwich* 



♦Recipe may be located in this book, by reference to Index. 

360 



Balanced Menus 



Autumn Menus 



Luncheon 
Tomato Delicacy* 



Peaches 



Ring Rolls* 



Dinner 



Casserole Onions* 
Browned Potatoes 
Waldorf Salad 
Pineapple Meringue Pie* 



Luncheon 

Cream of Potato Soup* 
Bran Rolls* 
Dutch Apple Cake 



Dinner 

Baked Lentils* Turnips 

Grapefruit and Orange Salad 
Cider Jelly* Whipped Cream 



Luncheon 

Tomato Omelet* 
Fruit Salad Doughnuts* 



Dinner 

Casserole Potatoes au Gratin* 
Buttered Cauliflower 
Lettuce French Dressing 

Steamed Prune Pudding* 
Hard Sauce 



Luncheon 

Cornmeal Croquettes* Corn Syrup 
Asparagus Salad 
Apple Whip 



Dinner 

Spiced Sweet Potatoes* Spinach 
Tomato and Green Pepper Salad 
Cranberry Sherbet 



* Recipe may be located in this book, by reference to Index. 

361 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Autumn Menus 



Luncheon 

Creamed Eggs on Toast* 
Stuffed Date Salad 
Floating Island 



Dinner 

Patties of Peas* 
Escalloped Potatoes 
Jellied Olive Salad 
Orange Ice Cream 
Cherry Angel Cake* 



Luncheon 

Bananas in Batter* 
Apple Sandwich Salad* 
Cup Custard 



Dinner 

Tomato Loaf* Cheese Sauce 

Browned Parsnips 
Beet Salad 
Lemon Pie* 



Luncheon 

Vegetable Soup* 
Raisin Tea Ring* 
Fruit Cup 



Dinner 

Baked Rice* Glaced Onions 

Cranberry Salad 
Pensacola Pudding* 



Luncheon 

Rice Waffles* Maple Syrup 

Apricot Whip Cookies 



Dinner 

Stuffed Potatoes* 
Cauliflower au Gratin 
Glace Salad* 
Sea Foam Custard* 



*Recipe may be located in this book, by reference to Index. 

362 



Balanced Menus 



Winter Menus 



Breakfast 

Stewed Prunes 



Oatmeal 
Toast 



Milk 



Marmalade 
Coffee 



Luncheon 

Cream of Potato Soup 
Finger Rolls* 
Baked Apples Citron Cakes* 



Dinner 

Rice and Cheese* Italian Beets 

Celery 
Pumpkin Pie* 



Breakfast 

Orange Halves 
Shredded Wheat 
Poached Eggs 

Coffee 



Milk 
Toast 



Luncheon 

Escalloped Corn Cherry Bread* 
Fruit Salad 



Dinner 

Peas and Tomato Loaf* 
Potato Balls 
Cabbage Salad 
Pineapple Cream* 



Breakfast 

Stewed Apricots 
Cream of Wheat 
Whole Wheat Fruit Gems* 



Milk 
Coffee 



Luncheon 

Celery Patties* Baked Potatoes 
Cup Custard 



Dinner 

Baked Bean Roast* 
Buttered Asparagus 
Lettuce Salad 
Orange Puddings- 



Breakfast 

Grapefruit 
Cornmeal Waffles* Maple Syrup 

Coffee 



Luncheon 

Potatoes au Gratin 
Endive Salad 
Stewed Prunes Loaf Cake* 



Dinner 

Mushroom Entree* 
Creamed Peas in Timbale Cases 
Jellied Fruit 



* Recipe may be located in this book, by reference to Index. 

363 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Winter Menus 



Breakfast 

Baked Apples 
Grape Nuts Milk 
Toast Jam 
Coffee 



Omelet* 
Peaches 



Luncheon 

Celery- 



Scones* 
Marguerites 



Dinner 

Candied Sweet Potatoes* 
Cauliflower 
Beet Salad 
Cranberry Pie* 



Breakfast 

Stewed Peaches 
Puffed Wheat 

Toast Coffee 



Milk 



Luncheon 

Tomato Rarebit 
Orange Honey Biscuits* 
Tapioca Pudding* 



Dinner 

Baked Eggs in Croustades 
Mashed Potatoes Creamed Peas 
Lettuce Salad 
Chiffon Lemon Pie* 



Breakfast 
Orange Juice 



Schnecken Rolls* 

Coffee 



Marmalade 



Luncheon 

Asparagus Souffte* 
Combination Salad 
Fruit Ice 



Dinner 

Casserole of Vegetables* 

Lima Beans 
Spiced Tomato Relish* 
Apricot Shortcake 



Breakfast 
Apple Sauce 



Oatmeal 
Toast 



Milk 



Coffee 



Luncheon 

Cheese-Stuffed Potatoes* 
Celery 

Fruit Salad Small Cakes 



Dinner 

Onions Stuffed with Rice* 
Buttered Beets 
Jellied Salad 
Steamed Carrot Pudding* 



'Recipe may be located in this book, by reference to Index. 



364 



Balanced Menus 



Winter Menus 



Breakfast 

Sliced Oranges 
Soft-cooked Eggs 

Coffee 



Toast 



Luncheon 

Potato Croquettes* 
Creamed Carrots Bran Bread* 
Fruit Tartlets 



Dinner 

Green Pea Entree* Baked Cabbage 
Cranberry Sauce 
Orange Jelly 



Breakfast 

Sliced Bananas 
Corn Flakes Milk 
Raisin Muffins* Conserve 

Coffee 



Luncheon 

Creamed Spinach on Toast 
Log Cabin Salad* 
Spice Cake* 



Dinner 

Celery and Tomato Loaf* 
Baked Potatoes 
Head Lettuce Salad 
Thousand Island Dressing* 
Raisin Pie 



Luncheon 

Spanish Souffle 
Creamed Lima Beans 
Jellied Salad 



Dinner 

Breaded Cheese Balls* 

Escalloped Potatoes 
Ginger Fruit Cream* 



Luncheon 

Eggs in Potato Nests 
Graham Biscuits 
Peach Dessert* 



Dinner 

Rice a* la Carolina* 
Buttered Peas 
Cranberry Salad 
Cream Pie* 



♦Recipe may be located in this book, by reference to Index. 

365 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Winter Menus 



Luncheon 

Sweet Potato with Apple* 
Spinach 
Prune Pudding* 



Dinner 

Stuffed Onions* Mashed Potatoes 
Jellied Pineapple Salad 
Fruit Ice Cream* 



Luncheon 

Lentil Patties* 
Breaded Tomatoes 
Peach Delight* 
Small Cakes 



Dinner 

Baked Cereal and Cheese* 
Asparagus Toast Points 

Jellied Perfection Salad 
Washington Pie* 



Luncheon 

Corn Loaf* 
Mixed Vegetable Salad 
Cheese Straws 
Cocoa Custard* 



Dinner 

Southern Candied Sweet Potatoes* 
Sauted Apple Rings 
Head Lettuce Salad 
Jellied Banana Dessert* 



Luncheon 

Cream of Pea Soup* 

Fruit Salad 
Date Cake 



Croutons 



Dinner 

Spinach Loaf* 
Baked Potatoes 
Cottage Cheese Salad 
Cranberry Pie* 



♦Recipe may be located in this book, by reference to Index. 

366 



Balanced Menus 



Winter Menus 



Luncheon 

Cheese Rice Toast* 
Endive Salad 
Fruit Batter Pudding 



Dinner 

Mexican Bean Roast* 
Browned Carrots 
Jellied Tomato Salad — Saltines 
Fruit Cream* 



Luncheon 

Corn Balls Tomato Sauce* 

Hot Biscuits 
Preserved Figs* 



Dinner 

Canapes* 
Steamed Cabbage* 
O'Brien Potatoes 

Celery 
Apple Charlotte 



Luncheon 

Apricot Fritters* 
Cabbage Salad 



Cocoanut Custard 



Hermits 



Dinner 

Tomato Soup* 

Casserole of Rice* Wax Beans 
Orange Ice 



Luncheon 

Planked Poached Eggs 
Cherry Sauce 
Watermelon Cake* 



Dinner 

Fruit Cocktail* 
Creole Sweet Potatoes 
Brussels Sprouts 
Lettuce Salad 
Mince Pie II* 



♦Recipe may be located in this book, by reference to Index. 

367 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Spring Menus 



Breakfast 

Stewed Rhubarb 
Corn Flakes Milk 
Date Muffins Coffee 



Luncheon 

Asparagus on Toast 



is 



Radishes 
Banana Custard* 



Dinner 

Potato Hash* Buttered Carrots 
Head Lettuce Salad 
Orange Pie* 



Breakfast 

Orange Juice 
Scrambled Eggs 

Coffee 



Toast 



Luncheon 

Baked Cheese Dreams 
Sliced Tomatoes 
Brown Betty* 



Dinner 

Escalloped Cabbage* 
O'Brien Potatoes 

Celery 
Baked Pineapple* 



Breakfast 

Grapefruit 
Griddle Cakes* 

Coffee 



Honey 



Luncheon 

Baked Eggs in Cream 
Cinnamon Twists* Stewed Apricots 



Dinner 

Beets Stuffed with Rice* 
Buttered Peas 
Jellied Salad 
Lemon Tarts 



Breakfast 

Strawberries 
Cream of Wheat Milk 
Toast Coffee 



Luncheon 

Sweet Potato and Apple Puff* 
Head Lettuce Salad 
Stewed Rhubarb Fruit Drops* 



Dinner 

Cauliflower in Ramekins* 
Duchesse Potatoes 
Celery and Radishes 
Fruit Sherbet* 



*Recipe may be located in this book, by reference to Index. 

368 



Balanced Menus 



Spring Menus 



Breakfast 
Sliced Bananas 
Grape Nuts Milk 
French Toast Coffee 



Luncheon 

Rice Patties* 
Combination Vegetable Salad 
Cocoanut Custard 



Dinner 



Asparagus Entree* 
Baked Potatoes 
Cucumber 
Plum Pie* 



Breakfast 

Apricots 
Puffed Rice 
Hot Coffee Twists* 



Milk 
Coffee 



Luncheon 

Cheese Fondue* 
Sliced Tomatoes Saltines 
Chocolate Pudding 



Dinner 

Escalloped Onions* 
Spinach 
Potato Balls — Parsley Sauce 
Apple Salad 
Jellied Dessert 



Breakfast 
Sliced Oranges 
Corn Flakes 
Soft-cooked Eggs 

Coffee 



Milk 
Toast 



Luncheon 

Potato Salad II* Corn Cakes' 

Radishes 
Apple Tartlets 



* 



Dinner 

Steamed Peppers 
Creamed Carrots 
Head Lettuce Salad 
Strawberry Fluff* 



Breakfast 

Stewed Prunes 
Puffed Wheat Milk 
Toast Strawberry Jam* 

Coffee 



Luncheon 

Creamed Eggs on Toast 
Asparagus 
Fresh Fruit Salad* 



Dinner 

Cottage Cheese Croquettes* 
Creamed New Potatoes 
Stuffed Tomato Salad* 
Pineapple Pie 



*Kecipe may be located in this book, by reference to Index. 

369 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Spring Menus 



Breakfast 
Orange Juice 



Oatmeal 
Toast 



Milk 
Marmalade 



Coffee 



Luncheon 
Tomato Rarebit* Radishes 
Porcupines* Small Cakes 



Dinner 

Celery and Potatoes in Ramekins* 
String Beans 
Cabbage Salad* 
Strawberries and Cream 



Breakfast 

Grape Fruit 
Bran Flakes 
Breakfast Muffins* 

Coffee 



Milk 
Conserve 



Radishes 



Luncheon 

Casserole Macaroni 
Frozen Pimento Cheese Salad* 
Coffee Souffle 



Dinner 

Escalloped Cauliflower* 
Spinach Baked Potatoes 

Head Lettuce Salad 
Pineapple Trifle* 



Luncheon 

Grape Fruit Basket Salad* 
Fruit Bread* 
Lemon Sponge 



Dinner 

Asparagus Tips in Timbale Cases* 
Browned Potatoes 
Tomato Jelly* 
Fruit Ice 



Luncheon 

Cheese Patties* 
Apple Bloom Salad* 
Chocolate Cake 



Dinner 

Potato Cakes with Peas* 
Lettuce Salad Russian Dressing* 
Custard Pie 



•Recipe may be located in this book, by reference to Index. 

370 



Balanced Menus 



Spring Menus 



Luncheon 

Sandwich Loaf* 
Tomato Salad 
Rice Pudding 



Dinner 

Potatoes au Gratin 
Baked Egg Plant* 
Pistachio Salad* 
Rhubarb with Whipped Cream 



Luncheon 

Omelet 

Potato Salad Graham Biscuits 
Lemon Tarts* 



Dinner 

Rice in Pepper Cases* 
Cauliflower Hollandaise Sauce 
Radishes 
Jellied Cubes* 



Luncheon 

Prune Fritters* 
Strawberries and Cream 
Angel Cake* 



Dinner 

Baked Potatoes 
Tomato Croquettes* 
Green Pea Salad* 

Frozen Fruit 



Luncheon 

Tomato Bisque with Cheese* 
Cucumber Salad 
Apple Glace* 



Dinner 

Eggs in Nests* 



Asparagus 
Head Lettuce Salad 

French Dressing 
Rhubarb Shortcake 



♦Recipe may be located in this book, by reference to Index. 

371 



800 Proved Pecan Recipes 



Spring Menus 



Luncheon 

Vegetable Sandwiches* 
Devilled Eggs 
Cherry Roly Poly 



Dinner 

Spanish Cheese* New Peas 

Stuffed Beet Salad* 
French Ice Cream 



Luncheon 

Corn in Ramekins* 
Olives and Radishes 
Fruit Salad Gingerbread* 



Dinner 

Graham Cracker and Celery 
Entree* 

Mashed Potatoes Spinach 
Watercress Salad 
Banana Custard* 



Luncheon 

Loaf Cheese Salad 5 
Orange Fritters* 
Baked Apples 



Cream 



Dinner 

Casserole Macaroni* 
Cauliflower Parsley Butter Sauce 
String Bean Salad 
Baked Alaska* 



Luncheon 

Rice Cakes* Tomato Sauce 

Prickly Pear Salad* 
Macaroons 



Dinner 

Panned Potatoes* Julienne Carrots 
Tomato Salad 
Rhubarb Batter Pudding* 



♦Recipe may be located in this book, by reference to Index. 

372 



All recipes in this book, with but a few excep- 
tions under desserts and cakes, are based on the 
family of four as a standard unit. 

General directions prefacing the chapters are 
brief, and the recipes are stated in the shortest 
form consistent for clearness, materials used 
being listed in order of use as far as possible. 

Standard methods of level measurement are 
used throughout and should be followed to insure 
best results. 

The small letter t in any recipe therefore 
indicates level teaspoonful. 



The capital letter T indicates level table- 
spoonful. 



The capital letter C indicates level cupful. 



Fractions, such as Y2 T indicate one-half 
of a level tablespoonful. 



373 



INDEX 



Page 

Acknowledgment to Food 

Authorities VIII 

Alaska, Baked 188 

Almond Macaroons 129 

Sponge Cake 93 

Amino Acids 13 

Analysis of the Pecan 10 

Angel Cake 93 

Cherry 96 

Cocoa 100 

Fruit 106 

Apple Bloom Salad 279 

Date Pie 261 

Dumpling 260 

Fritters 338 

Glace 198 

Pie 260 

Pudding 200 

and Raisin Pie 259 

Relish 325 

Rings in Batter 337 

Sandwich 313 

Sandwich Salad 279 

Whip 174 

Applebutter Sandwich 314 

Applesauce Cake 95 

Raisin Cake 94 

Apricot Conserve -332 

Fritters 338 

Gum Drops 149 

Skillet Cake 94 

Velvet 187 

Asparagus Entree 211 

Salad 280 

Sandwich 313 

Souffle 212 

Stuffed Tomato Salad 280 

Tips in Timbale Cases 211 

Autumn Menus 358 



B 

Baked, Alaska 188 

Banana Dessert 173 

Egg Plant 211 

Lentils 213 

Pineapple Dessert 173 

Rice Entree 213 

Tomato Entree 214 

Baking of Cakes 91 

Baking Powder Breads 58 

Balanced Menus 351 



Page 

Banana, in Batter * 338 

Cake 94 

Cake, White 95 

Cream Pie 260 

Custard 174, 199 

Filling 127 

Fritters 337 

Frosting 126 

Ice Cream 187 

Mousse 188 

Salad 285 

Sandwich 313 

Whip 173 

"Barona" Cake 97 

Baskets. Glace Pecan 161 

Batter Pudding, Cherry 200 

Rhubarb 200 

Bavarian Cream 175 

Orange 180 

Beans, Baked Roast 212 

Lima Cakes 229 

Lima Patties .-229 

Mexican Loaf 230 

Red Loaf 237 

Salad 284 

Timbales 

and Tomato Loaf 214 

Beet Salad . : 284 

Beets Stuffed with Rice 217 

Beverages • 

Cocoa ** qIq 

Malted Milk *43 

Biscuits, Baking Powder 72 

Cheese 

Graham 'J 

Orange Honey .. <* 

Orange Short Cake 

Raisin '2 

Raisin Tea Ring 75 

Scones "J 

Short Cakes 7b 

Tea "\ 

Tea Cakes 76 

Marmalade 72 

Bishop's Bread 62 

Bisque Ice Cream .188 

Birthday Cake "'"oan 

Blueberry Pie 260 

Boiled Salad Dressing 306 

Boston Brown Bread 59 

Boston Steamed Bread 59 

Bran Flour 36 

375 



Page 

Bran Bread 60 

Buttermilk Bread 60 

Graham Bread 59 

Health Bread 61 

Molasses Bread 61 

Muffins 81 

and Raisin Bread 62 

Rolls 51 

Breads 39, 41, 57 

Breads, Classes of 37 

Bread-Making, Types of Flour 

for 35 

Bread, Baking Powder 57 

"Bishop's Bread" 62 

Boston Brown ..[[ 59 

Boston Steamed 59 

Bran 60 

Buttermilk 60 

and Graham ' " 59 

Health [ [ 61 

Molasses .!.*!!.' 61 

and Raisin 62 

Brown 

^uit :::::::::: i 

Orange 61 

Raisin 60 

New England !!!!!" 67 

Buckwheat 63 

Sherry ;;;;; 6 3 

Coarse Loaf 65 

Coffee 76 

Coffee Twists 77 

Cornmeal 61 

Cornmeal and Date ...... 65 

Cream of Wheat 64 

Date, Dark 63 

Loaf 63 

White 74 

and Graham 64 

Graham 62 

Graham and Date.. [ 64 

Maple Syrup 66 

Molasses 66 

and Rye 66 

Johnny Cake 66 

New England Brown 67 

Orange 62 

Brown 61 

Graham 68 

Peel - 64 

Philadelphia Dutch 67 

Prune 69 

Raisin I 68 

II 68 

Bishop's Bread 62 

and Cinnamon 67 

Rye 

Sultana Raisin 1 68 

Steamed, Boston 59 

Cornmeal 69 

Graham 70 

Raisin 69 

White I 70 

II 70 

III 70 

IV 71 



Bread (Continued) Pa^e 

V 7! 

Syrup 73 

Whole Wheat and Raisin 73 

Bread, Yeast 41 

"Christmas" 45 

Fruit ;;;; 45 

Graham 45 

and White . . . . . . ' " 46 

Oatmeal Fruit 46 

white i ; ; 46 

II 47 

Whole Wheat 47 

and Raisin 47 

Bread Pudding 199 

Lemon 204 

Breaded Tomato Entree. . ... .. .215 

Breadcrumb Croquettes 217 

Waffles 86 

Breakfast Muffins 81 

Breakfasts, Menus for 353 

Brittle 150 

Mocha . !l62 

Brown, Betty [174 

Bread [ 65 

Bread, New England 67 

Fruit Bread 65 

Orange Bread 61 

Raisin Bread 60 

Sugar Cake 96 

Brownies, Cocoanut 133 

Buckwheat Bread 63 

Building the Meal 209 

Buns, Butterscotch 50 

Hot Cross 52 

Raised 53 

Spice 53 

Butter Canapes 314 

Buttermilk Pie .259 

Butterscotch, Buns 50 

Coffee Cake (Yeast) 48 

Marshmallows f 149 

Pie 259 

Rolls 85 

Wafers 150 



C 

C (Abbreviation Explained) 373 

Cabbage, Escalloped 228 

Salad 285 

Steamed 243 

Cake 89 

Almond Sponge 93 

Angel 93 

Cherry 96 

Cocoa 100 

Fruit 106 

Apple-sauce 95 

Raisin 94 

Apricot Skillet 94 

Banana * 94 

White 95 

"Barona" 97 

Birthday 95 



376 



Cake (Continued) Page 

Brown Sugar 96 

Cake Squares 93 

Caramel 96 

Cereal Honey ! . . 98 

Citron [103 

Checkerboard 98 

Cherry 99 

Chocolate 98 

Date 97 

Mocha 115 

Layer I [ 99 

Layer II 100 

Potato ....102 

Spice 100 

Spice 102 

Squares 101 

Christmas 103 

Cocoa 101 

Potato 105 

Cocoanut 106 

Coffee (Yeast) 48 

Cracker, Graham 109 

Graham Raisin 117 

Raisin 116 

Date 105 

Chocolate 97 

Lazy Daisy Ill 

Squares 104 

Devil's Food 104 

"Donna Clara's Cake" 107 

Feather 108 

Fig 106 

Fruit 107 

Angel 106 

Dark 104 

Golden 108 

Mocha 114 

Uncooked 124 

White 122 

Gingerbread 110 

Gold, Bride's 109 

and White Layer 125 

Golden Fruit 108 

Graham Cracker 109 

Hawaiian Skillet 108 

Honey Ill 

Jelly Roll Ill 

Layer 110 

Chocolate I 99 

Chocolate II 100 

Chocolate Colonial 102 

Cocoa 105 

White and Gold .125 

Lazy Daisy Date Ill 

Lemon 110 

Lemon Sponge 112 

Loaf 112 

White 126 

Manheim White 112 

Mary Todd's Raisin 114 

Maple ..113 

Date 113 

Meringue 114 

Mocha 113 

Chocolate 115 

Fruit 114 

Raisin 115 



377 



Cake (Continued) Page 

Orange 115 

Oriental Fruitade 116 

Perfection, White 128 

Pineapple 120 

Squares 116 

Praline, Spanish 118 

Raisin H8 

Apple-sauce 94 

Cracker 116 

Gingerbread 117 

Graham Cracker 117 

Sandwich 176 

Silver, Raisin 119 

Southern 119 

Skillet, Apricot 94 

"Sonnental" 117 

Southern Silver 119 

Spanish Praline 118 

Spice 118 

Chocolate 102 

Potato 100 

Date 119 

Gingerbread 122 

and Fruit 120 

Raisin 123 

Rocks 141 

White 123 

Sponge 123 

Almond 93 

Lemon 112 

Squares 93 

Date 104 

Pineapple 116 

Uncooked Fruit 122 

Upside Down 121 

Watermelon 121 

White, Fruit 122 

and Gold Layer 124 

Loaf 120 

Perfection 129 

Spice 123 

Cake Fillings 125 

Banana 127 

Cherry 125 

Fruit and Frosting 125 

Orange „ 126 

Raisin 126 

Tutti Frutti 126 

Cake Frostingrs 125 

Banana 126 

Fruit and Filling... 125 

Fudge 128 

Marshmallow 127 

Mocha 125 

Pineapple 127 

Uncooked Orange 127 

Cakes (Small) 89 

Baking of 91 

Temperature 92 

Almond Macaroons 129 

Balls 129 

Bran Drops, Shirley 144 

Brown Sugar Macaroons 129 

Cherry Drops 128 

Chinese Hardtack 130 

Chocolate Clusters 130 

Discs 128 



Cakes, Chocolate (Continued) Page 

Drop Cakes 130 

Luncheon 78 

Squares 122 

Citron 131 

Meringue 131 

Peel 131 

Clerk Bread 133 

Cocoanut Brownies 133 

Corn 79 

Crullers 134 

Date Bars 134 

Oatmeal 141 

Rocks 132 

Doughnuts 136 

Sour Milk 143 

Fig 130 

Filled Cookies 132 

Frozen 135 

Fruit Drops 132 

Jumbles 135 

Spice Drops 133 

Top Saltines 131 

Griddle Cakes 79 

Hermits 137 

Honey Cookies 134 

Fans 137 

Gingernuts 138 

Iced Chocolate Fingers 135 

Iced Coffee 78 

Ingredients of 90 

Japanese Chews 136 

Macaroons, Almond 128 

Brown Sugar 127 

Fruit 136 

Honey 136 

Lemon 138 

Scottish Fancies 142 

Marguerites 140 

Pineapple 140 

Marmalade Tea 72 

Mixing of 9} 

Oatmeal Date J41 

Delights 141 

Patties 139 

"Orange Puff" Cakes 138 

Patrician J40 

Patties, Oatmeal 1^9 

Peppernuts }*>«{ 

"Pumpernickle" 140 

Raisin Drops 137 

Rocks 14^ 

Raspberry Marquerites 142 

Rocks, Date 

Raisin 142 

Spice 14:1 

Scotch Five o'Clocks 142 

Scottish Fancies 142 

Shirley Bran Drops 144 

Southern Lizzies 144 

Spice Cookies l«g 

Drops J* J 

Rocks • 141 

Tea 146 

Toast Cookies 139 

Yum-Yum 144 

Canapes 314 

Butter 314 



Canapes (Continued) Page 

Cheese 316 

Tomato 323 

Candied Sweet Potatoes 215 

Candy 147 

Apricot Gum Drops 149 

Butterscotch Marshmallows. .149 

Wafers 150 

Brittle 150 

Caramels 153 

Marshmallows 150 

Cherry Bars 150 

Cheese Stuffed Dates 151 

Chocolate, Caramels 149 

Covered Fudge 151 

Divinity 152 

Fudge 152 

Marshmallow 151 

Fudge 153 

Cocoa Fudge 154 

Cream Caramel 153 

Penuche 152 

Date Balls 155 

Loaf 155 

Devilled Pecans 155 

Fondant-covered Pecans 154 

Marshmallows 155 

French Fondant Drops 156 

Fruit Balls 156 

Fudge 157 

Nougatines ,..157 

Paste 154 

Fudge 157 

Glace Dates u .158 

Pecans 159 

Honey Squares 158 

Kisses 159 

Log Cabin Roll 160 

Maple Creams 160 

Kisses ....156 

Penuche .161 

Pralines 162 

Marshmallow Fudge 163 

Mint Balls 161 

Mocha Brittle 162 

Neapolitan Fudge .158 

Orange Pralines 160 

Parisian Sweets 159 

XPecan Baskets 161 

-•^Clusters 162 

Penuche .166 

Peppermint Creams 162 

Pineapple Squares 164 

Pralines 164 

History of 147 

Rolled Caramels 164 

Rose Buds 163 

Salted Pecans I 165 

II 165 

III 165 

Salted Pecan Men 166 

Sea Foam 165 

Stuffed Dates 164 

Stuffed Cherry 166 

Taffy .« 163 

Wintergreen Creams 166 

Cantaloupe, Stuffed 186 

Sundae 189 

378 



Page 

Canton Salad . 286 

Sandwiches . 315 

Sherbet 189 

Caramel Bisque 191 

Cake 96 

Ice Cream 187 

Marshmallows 150 

Caramels (Candy) 153 

Chocolate 149 

Cream 153 

Rolled 164 

Carbohydrates 3, 17 

Carrot Conserve 331 

Escalloped ...226 

Pie 263 

Pudding, Steamed 204 

Sandwiches 315 

Casserole, Macaroni 218 

Onions 216 

Peas 218 

Potatoes Au Gratin 219 

Rice 218 

Vegetables 219 

Cauliflower, Escalloped 227 

' in Ramekins 221 

Polonaise 219 

Celery, and Cheese Sandwiches. 314 

Creamed in Croustades 225 

Creole 226 

and Graham Cracker Entree.. 229 

J ellied Salad 293 

Patties 215 

Potato Border 221 

and Potato, Salad... 287 

in Ramekins 215 

Salad 287 

and Cucumber 291 

and Potato 287 

Sandwiches 315 

Souffle 216 

Soup 344 

and Tomato, in Ramekins. . .215 
Loaf 217 

Cereal and Cheese, Baked 212 

and Cottage Cheese Loaf 220 

Cream of Wheat ....341 

Fritters ,. 339 

Honey Cake 98 

Roast 220 

Rolls with Banana 223 

Chantilly Tarts 265 

Checkerboard Cake 98 

Cheese Balls, Breaded ...216 

Balls, Relish 324 

and Bean Sandwiches 315 

Biscuits 71 

Canapes 316 

and Celery Sandwiches 314 

Cereal, Baked with 212 

and Cucumber Salad 289 

and Date Sandwiches 313 

and Egg Sandwiches 316 

Fondue 222 

Frozen Pimento Salad 283 

Fruit Sandwiches 319 

and Horse Radish Sand- 
wiches 315 



379 



Cheese (Continued) Page 

Loaf, Spinach 240 

and Macaroni Entree 230 

and Olive Sandwiches 316 

Patties 217 

and Pepper Sandwiches.. 317 

and Pineapple Sandwiches. . .316 

and Raisin Sandwiches 317 

in Ramekins 222 

Relish 326 

Rice Entree 237 

and Rice Toast 340 

Sandwiches and Bean 315 

and Celery 314 

and Date 313 

and Egg 316 

and Olive 316 

and Pepper 317 

and Pineapple 316 

and Raisin 317 

Souffle 225 

Spanish 240 

Straws 262 

Spiced 271 

Strips 268 

Stuffed Dates 151 

Peppers 299 

Potatoes 222 

Toast 339 

Tomato Bisque with... 344 

Wafers, Toasted 243 

Chemical Leavening 57 

Cherry, Angel Cake 96 

Bars 150 

Bread 63 

Cake 99 

Conserve 334 

Drops 128 

Filling, Cake 125 

Ice Cream 187 

Mousse 189 

Pie 261 

Pudding, Steamed 205 

Stuffed 166 

Chess Pie 263 

Chews, Japanese 136 

Chiffon Lemon Pie ...263 

Chinese Hardtack 130 

Chocolate Cake 98 

Colonial Layer 102 

Date 97 

Layer I 99 

Layer II 100 

Mocha 115 

Potato 102 

Potato Spice .100 

Refrigerator 175 

Spice 102 

Squares .....101 

Caramels ..149 

Clusters 130 

Covered Fudge 151 

Discs 128 

Divinity 152 

Drop Cakes .'. .130 

Fingers, Iced 135 

and Fruit Ice Cream „..190 



Chocolate (Continued) Page 

Fudge 152 

and Marshmallow 153 

Ice Cream 190 

Luncheon Cakes 78 

Mousse 190 

Pie 262 

Potato Cake 102 

Potato Spice Cake 100 

Pudding 198 

Steamed 202 

Refrigerator Ca*ke 175 

Sauce 197 

Squares 122 

Christmas Bread 45 

Cake , 103 

Frappe 191 

Cider Jelly 177 

Cinnamon and Raisin Bread ... 67 

Rolls 49 

Toast 340 

Twists 75 

Citron Cake 103 

Cakes 131 

Meringue 131 

Peel Cakes 131 

"Clerk Bread" 133 

Club Sandwich 319 

Coarse Loaf 65 

Cobbler, Peach 204 

Cocktail, Fruit 281 

Patrician Fruit 297 

Tomato 303 

Watermelon Salad 305 

Cocoa 340 

Angel Cake 100 

Cake 101 

Cream Custard 177 

Custard 177 

Fudge 154 

Layer Cake 105 

Potato Cake 105 

Cocoanut Brownies 133 

Cake 106 

Custard Pie 264 

Coffee Bread (Baking Powder). 76 

Cake (Yeast) 48 

Butterscotch (Yeast) 48 

Iced 78 

Raisin (Yeast) 50 

Toast 341 

Ice Cream 191 

Souffle 175 

Twists • 77 

Cold Weather Menus 363 

Combination Salad 286 

Conserves 331 

Apricot 332 

Carrot 331 

Cherry 334 

Cranberry 331 

and Raisin 331 

Currant 331 

Fig 332 

Gooseberry 332 



Conserves (Continued) Page 

Grape 332 

and Raisin 333 

Green Tomato 334 

Mixed Fruit 333 

Orange Marmalade 333 

Peach 333 

Pineapple 334 

Plum 334 

Jam 335 

Preserved Figs 335 

Prince of Wales Marmalade. .335 

Prune 335 

Rhubarb 336 

Marmalade 336 

and Pineapple 337 

Strawberry 336 

Jam 336 

Stuffed Figs 344 

Cookies, Honey 134 

Spice 139 

Toast 139 

Corn Balls 220 

Cakes 79 

Escalloped w 224 

Fritters 339 

Loaf 222 

Ramekin 224 

Soup, Cream of 344 

Cornmeal Bread 61 

Croquettes 224 

and Date Bread 65 

Griddle Cakes 77 

Waffles 84 

Cottage Cheese and Cereal 

Loaf 220 

Croquettes 224 

Loaf 223 

and Olive Sandwiches 318 

Relish 324 

Salad 286 

Sandwiches 317 

and Watercress 283 

Cranberry Conserve 331 

Pie 262 

and Raisin Conserve 331 

Salad 287 

Cream, Banana Pie 260 

Bavarian 175 

Orange 180 

Caramels 153 

Cheese Balls 326 

Relish 325 

Sandwiches 31S 

of Corn Soup 344 

Fruit Salad 289 

Jelly Dressing 307 

Maple Dessert 180 

Patrician Dessert 181 

Pea Soup 347 

Penuche 152 

Pie 266 

Pineapple 182 

of Potato Soup 345 

Puffs 178 

of Spinach Soup 345 

of Wheat ...341 

Bread 0-1 

380 



Page 

Creamed Eggs on Toast 249 

Creams. Maple 160 

Peppermint 162 

Wintergreen 166 

Creole Celery 226 

Croquettes, Breadcrumb 217 

Cornmeal 224 

Cottage Cheese ...224 

Mexican Rice 232 

Parsley -Potato 233 

Potato 236 

Pea 234 

Rice 238 

Savory Potato 239 

Sweet Potato 242 

Tomato . . 246 

Sauce 223 

Crullers , 134 

Cucumber Boat Salad 282 

and Celery Salad 291 

and Cheese Salad 289 

Salad 283 

Currant Conserve 331 

Muffins 80 

Custard, Banana 174, 199 

Cocoa 177 

Cocoa Cream 177 

Cocoanut Pie 264 

Maple 270 

Pie 264 

Seafoam 183 

Strawberry 186 



I> 



Daisy Salad 288 

Date. Balls 155 

Bars 134 

Bread, and Cornmeal 65 

Dark 63 

Loaf 63 

and Graham 64 

White 74 

Cake 105 

Chocolate 97 

Lazy Daisy Ill 

Maple 113 

Oatmeal 141 

Spice 119 

Dessert 179 

Graham Gems .'. 81 

Ice Cream 192 

Loaf 155 

Muffins 79 

Pie 265 

Pudding 201 

Steamed 205 

Rocks 132 

Salad 289 

Sandwiches 318 

Spice Pie 265 

Squares .....104 



Page 

Dates, Cheese- Stuffed 151 

Glace 158 

Stuffed ........164 

Desserts 169 

Apple Whip 174 

Baked Alaska 188 

Banana 173 

Pineapple 173 

Banana Custard 174, 199 

Whip 173 

Bavarian Cream 175 

Brown Betty 174 

Cake Sandwich 176 

Cantaloupe Sundae 189 

Chocolate Refrigerator Cake. 175 

Cider Jelly 177 

Cocoa Cream Custard 177 

Custard 177 

Coffe Souffle 175 

Cream Puffs 178 

Date Dessert 179 

Directions for Freezing 170 

Fitted to the Meal 169 

Frozen 169 

Fruit Cream 179 

Ginger Fruit Cream 179 

Grape Float 180 

Juice Souffle 176 

Jellied Banana Dessert 182 

Cubes 181 

Maple Cream 180 

Neapolitan Sponge 178 

Orange Bavarian Cream 180 

Patrician Cream 181 

Washington Pie 181 

Pensacola Pudding 182 

Peppermint Dainty 183 

Pineapple Cream 182 

Trifle 183 

Porcupines 185 

Raspberry Flummery 184 

Refrigerator Cake 184 

Rice and Pineapple Cream.. 184 

Seafoam Custard 183 

Strawberry Fluff 185 

Custard 186 

Stuffed Cantaloupe 186 

Washington Pie 185 

Devilled Pecans 155 

Devil's Food Cake 104 

Diced Potatoes with Tomato 

Sauce 225 

Dinners, Menus for 353 

Dinner Rolls 48 

Directions for Making Pies and 

Entrees 209 

Directions for Making Salads.. 277 
Directions for Making Yeast 

Bread 43 

Sponge Method , 43 

Straight Dough Method 43 

Discs, Chocolate 128 

Divinity, Chocolate 152 

"Donna Clara's Cake" 107 

Doughnuts 136 

Sour Milk 143 

Drop Cakes, Chocolate 130 



381 



Page 

Drops, Cherry 128 

Raisin 137 

Dumplings, Apple 260 



E 

Egg Plant, Baked 211 

Panned 230 

Stuffed 244 

Egg and Cheese Sandwiches 316 

Salad 290 

Salad, Jellied 293 

Sandwiches ..318 

Eggs Creamed on Toast 249 

Devilled ....248 

in Nests 252 

Stuffed 249 

Entree, Meaning of... 209 

Entrees 209 

Asparagus 211 

Souffle 212 

Tips in Timbale Cases 211 

Bean, Baked Roast 212 

Lima Cakes 229 

Patties 229 

Mexican Loaf 230 

Red Loaf 237 

Timbales 214 

Tomato Loaf 214 

Beets Stuffed with Rice 217 

Cabbage, Escalloped 228 

Steamed 243 

Carrots, Escalloped 226 

Cauliflower, Escalloped 227 

in Ramekins 221 

Polonaise 219 

Celery Creamed in Crous- 

tades 225 

Creole 226 

Graham Cracker 229 

Patties 215 

Potato Border 221 

Souffle ..216 

Tomato in Ramekins 215 

Tomato 221 

Tomato Loaf 217 

Cereal Baked with Cheese 212 

Cottage Cheese Loaf 220 

Roast 220 

Rolls with Banana 223 

Cheese, Breaded Balls 216 

Cottage Croquettes 224 

Cottage Loaf 223 

Fondue 222 

Patties 217 

Ramekins 222 

Souffle 225 

Spanish 240 

Corn Balls 220 

Escalloped 224 

Loaf 222 

Ramekins 224 



382 



Page 



Croquettes, Breadcrumb 217 

Cornmeal ..224 

Parsley-Potato ....233 

Peas and Potato 234 

Potato 236 

Savory Potato 239 

Tomato Sauce 223 

Eggs Creamed on Toast 249 

Devilled 248 

in Nests 252 

Stuffed 249 

Egg Plant, Baked 211 

Panned 230 

Stuffed 244 

Lentils, Baked 213 

Patties 227 

Macaroni, Casserole 218 

Cheese 230 

Mushroom 231 

Oatmeal Mush 231 

Omelet 250 

Goldenrod 251 

Green Pepper ..250 

Tomato and Cheese 252 

Onions, Casserole 216 

Escalloped .......228 

Rice Stuffed ....231 

Stuffed 245 

Parsnips, Patties 229 

Rice Cakes 233 

Peas, Casserole 218 

Entree 227 

Patties 233 

Tomato Loaf 232 

Peppers, Rice in Cases 241 

Steamed 241 

Stuffed 242 

Stuffed with Rice 235 

Platter of Vegetables 235 

Potato, Balls 235 

Cakes with Peas ..236 

Casserole Au Gratin 219 

Cheese Stuffed 222 

Diced with Tomato Sauce.. 225 

Half- Shell 236 

Hash 234 

Loaf 238 

Panned 232 

Patties ..........236 

Puff 234 

Stuffed 244 

Stuffed Loaf 241 

Rice, Baked 213 

Balls 237 

Cakes 237 

Carolina 238 

Casserole 218 

Cheese 237 

Croquettes 238 

Loaf 239 

Mexican Croquettes 232 

Patties 238 

Spanish .240 

Tomato Loaf 248 



Page 

Sauerkraut 239 

Simplifying Meal-Planning ..210 

Spinach, Cheese Loaf 240 

Loaf 240 

Squash, Stuffed 244 

Sweet Potatoes, Apple 245 

Apple Puff 242 

Cakes 243 

Candied 215 

Creole 226 

Croquettes 242 

Glazed 228 

Loaf 245 

Marshmallow 228 

Mashed 230 

Pineapple ....234 

Puff 246 

Ramekins 246 

Raisin 247 

Souffle 247 

Southern Candied 242 

Spiced 239 

Stuffed 243 

The Main Protein Dish 209 

Tomato, Baked 214 

Balls 246 

Breaded 215 

Croquettes 246 

Gumbo 249 

Loaf 248 

Panned 233 

Rarebit 247 

Stuffed 243 

Vegetable, Casserole 219 

Macedoine 250 

Vermicelli Loaf 251 

Escalloped, Cabbage 228 

Carrots 226 

Cauliflower 227 

Corn 224 

Onions 228 



F 

Fairy Salad 288 

Fall Menus 358 

Fats 3, 15 

Feather Cake .108 

Fig Cake . 106 

Cakes 130 

Conserve 332 

Pastries 264 

Figs, Preserved 335 

Stuffed 344 

Filled Cookies 132 

Kisses 342 

Finger Rolls 49 

Flip Cups Salad 288 

Flour, Classes of 35 

For Bread-Making 35 

Composition of Wheat Kernel 35 

Varieties of Wheat 36 

Characteristics of.. 36 

For Bread 36 

For Pastry 36 

Classification of 36 



Page 

Fondant-covered Pecans 154 

Drops, French 156 

Marshmallows 155 

Fondue. Cheese 222 

Food Values 3 

Foreword IX 

Fractional Measurements 373 

Frappe, Christmas 191 

Freezing Ice Cream 169 

French Dressing 307 

Fondant Drops 156 

Ice-Cream 191 

Fresh Fruit Pie 269 

Salad 290 

Fritters, Apple 338 

Apple Rings 337 

Apricot 338 

Bananas 337 

in Batter 338 

Cereal 339 

Corn 339 

Orange 338 

Prune 339 

Frosted Pinwheel Rolls 51 

Frozen, Cakes 135 

Cheese Salad .^282 

Desserts 1(59 

Fruit Salad .'.WW 284 

Pimento Cheese Salad 283 

Pineapple Salad 280 

Salad 285 

Soup 346 

Fruit. Angel Cake 106 

g all s .156 

Bread 45 

Brown W 65 

Oatmeal W 46 

Butter Pie *264 

Cake :.io7 

P* rk 104 

Golden 108 

Mocha '114 

and Spice !!l20 

Uncooked 124 

White 122 

Cheese Sandwich ^319 

Chocolate Ice Cream ...190 

Cocktail 281 

Conserve 333 

Cream 179 

Ginger .179 

Cup 281 

Dressing 306 

Drops 132 

Filling and Frosting 125 

Frozen Salad 284 

Fudge 157 

Gems, Whole Wheat 83 

Ice Cream 192 

Iced Salad 281 

Jellied Salad 294 

Jumbles 135 

Macaroons 136 

Marshmallow Salad 292 

Milk Sherbet ...192 

Nougatines 157 



383 



Fruit (Continued) Page 

Paste 154 

Pastries 270 

Pie 267 

Salad Dressing 307 

Sauce 198 

Sherbet 194 

Spice Drops 133 

Fruits, Directions for Freez- 
ing 170 

Fudge 157 

Chocolate 152 

Chocolate-covered 151 

Chocolate Marshmallow 153 

Cocoa 154 

Frosting 128 

Fruit 157 

Marshmallow 163 

Neapolitan 158 



G 

Gems, Graham 80 

Graham Date 81 

Surprise 80 

Whole Wheat Fruit 83 

Gingerale Salad 283 

Ginger Fruit Cream 179 

Cake 110 

Gingerbread, Raisin 117 

Spice 122 

Glace, Baskets 161 

Dates 158 

Pecans 159 

Salad 282 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 228 

Gold Bride's Cake 109 

and White Layer Cake 124 

Golden Fruit Cake 108 

Ice Cream 192 

Goldenrod Omelet 251 

Gooseberry Conserve 332 

Graham, Biscuits 71 

Bread (Baking Powder) 62 

and Bran 69 

and Date 64 

Maple Syrup 66 

Molasses 66 

Orange 68 

and Rye 66 

Steamed 70 

Bread (Yeast) . . 45 

and White 46 

Cracker Cake 109 

Gems 80 

Maple Syrup Bread 66 

Molasses Bread 66 

Puffets (Muffins) 82 

and Rye Bread 66 

Grape, Conserve 332 

Float . 180 

Juice Souffle 176 

and Raisin Conserve 333 

Salad 284 

Sauce 197 

Graham Flour 36 



Page 

Grapefruit Baskets Salad 279 

Meringue Pie 268 

Green Pea Salad 280 

Pepper Omelet 250 

Tomato Conserve 334 

Griddle Cakes 79 

Cornmeal 77 

Rice 78 

Sour Milk 79 

Whole Wheat 81 

Gumbo, Tomato ...249 

H 

Hardtack, Chinese 130 

Hawaiian Skillet Cake 108 

Health Bran Bread 61 

Healthfulness of Pecan 30 

Hermits 137 

History of Pecan 7 

Honey Cake Ill 

Cereal Cake 98 

Cookies 134 

Fans 137 

Gingernuts 138 

Macaroons 136 

Orange Biscuits 73 

Squares (Candy) 158 

Horseradish and Cheese Sand- 
wiches 315 

Sandwiches 318 

Hot Cross Buns 52 

I iM 

Iced Chocolate Fingers 135 

Coffee Cake 78 

Fruit Salad 281 

Ice Cream 172 

Apricot Velvet 187 

Banana 187 

Bisque 188 

Caramel 187 

Bisque 191 

Cherry 187 

Chocolate 190 

and Fruit 190 

Coffee 191 

Date 192 

Freezing of 169 

French 191 

Fruit 192 

Golden 192 

Lemon 193 

Maple 194 

Marshmallow 193 

Peach 196 

Pineapple 195 

Raisin ....196 

Strawberry 196 

Tutti Frutti 194 

Ice Cream Sauces ..197 

Chocolate 197 

Fruit 198 

Grape 197 

Maple 198 

Cream 197 

384 



Page 

Ices 186 

Pineapple 195 

Strawberry 196 

Ingredients of Cakes 90 



J 

Jam, Plum 335 

Strawberry 336 

Japanese Chews 138 

Jellied, Apple Salad 294 

Banana Dessert 182 

Celery . .293 

Cubes 181 

Egg Salad 293 

Fruit 294 

Pineapple 291 

Relish 326 

Jelly Roll Ill 

Johnny Cake 66 

Jumbles, Fruit 135 



K 

Keystone Salad 290 

Kisses 159 

Filled 342 

Maple 156 



Laboratory Personnel VII 

Layer Cake 110 

Chocolate I 99 

Chocolate II 100 

Cocoa 105 

Colonial Chocolate 102 

Gold and White 124 

Lazy Daisy Date Cake Ill 

Lemon, Bread Pudding 204 

Cake 110 

Chiffon Pie 263 

Ice Cream 193 

Macaroons 138 

Pie 270 

Sponge Cake 112 

Tarts 274 

Lentils, Baked 213 

Patties < 227 

Lettuce Sandwich 317 

Level Measurements 373 

Lima Bean Cakes 229 

Patties ...229 

Salad 292 

List of Illustrations XIII 

Loaf, Cake 112 

Cheese- Salad 292 

Corn 222 

Potato 238 

Rice 239 

Sandwich 321 

Spinach 240 



Loaf (Continued) Page 

Sweet Potato 245 

Tomato 248 

Vermicelli 251 

White, Cake 120 

Log Cabin Roll 160 

Salad 293 

Watermelon Salad 305 

Luncheon, Chocolate Cakes 78 

Salad 291 

Luncheons, Menus for 353 



M 

Macaroni, Casserole 218 

Cheese 230 

Macaroons, Almond 129 

Brown Sugar 129 

Fruit 136 

Honey 136 

Lemon 138 

Scottish Fancies 142 

Macedoine, Vegetable 250 

Making Pies and Pastry 256 

Malted Milk 343 

Manheim White Cake 112 

Maple, Cake 113 

Cream Dessert 180 

Sauce 197 

Creams 160 

Custard Pie 270 

Date Cake 113 

Ice Cream 194 

Kisses 156 

Parfait 193 

Penuche 161 

Pralines ...162 

Sauce 198 

Marguerites 140 

Pineapple 140 

Raspberry 142 

Marmalade, Orange 333 

Prince of Wales 335 

Rhubarb 336 

Tea Cakes 72 

Marshmallow, Chocolate Fudge. 153 

Frosting 127 

Fruit Salad 292 

Fudge 163 

Ice Cream 193 

Mousse 194 

Parfait 195 

Sweet Potatoes 228 

Marshmallows, Butterscotch ..149 

Caramel 150 

Chocolate 151 

Fondant 155 

Mary Todd's Raisin Cake 114 

Mashed Sweet Potatoes. ...... .230 

Mayonnaise Dressing 305 

Fluffy 306 

Meal- Planning Simplified 210 

Measurements 373 

Menus 351 

Menu-Making 351 

385 



Page 

Menus, Balanced .351 

Autumn 358 

Spring 368 

Summer 353 

Winter .....363 

Meringue Cake 114 

Grapefruit Pie 268 

Pumpkin Pie 269 

Meringues, Citron 131 

Mexican Bean Loaf 230 

Milk, Fruit, Sherbet 192 

Mince Meat 341 

Mince Pie I 266 

JI 266 

Mineral Salts 3 

Mint Balls 161 

Butter Sandwiches 319 

Salad 295 

Miscellaneous Foods 329 

For Every Meal 329 

"From Soup to Nuts" 329 

Miscellaneous Pecan Foods 329 

Mixed Fruit Conserve 333 

Vegetable Salad 299 

Mixing of Cakes 91 

Mocha Brittle 162 

Cake 113 

Chocolate Cake 115 

Frosting 125 

Fruit Cake 114 

Raisin Cake 115 

Molded Frozen Desserts 171 

Molasses Bran Bread 61 

Graham Bread 66 

Pie 270 

Mosaic Sandwiches 320 

Mousses, Apricot Velvet 187 

Banan* 188 

Cherry 189 

Chocolate 190 

Marshmallow 194 

Muffins, Bran . . . 81 

Breakfast 81 

Chocolate Luncheon 78 

Corn Cakes 79 

Currant 80 

Date 79 

Graham 83 

Graham Gems 80 

Date Gems 81 

Puffets 82 

Raisin 82 

Surprise Gems 80 

Tea 82 

Whole Wheat 82 

Fruit Gems 83 

Mush, Oatmeal 231 

Mushroom Entree 231 



N 

Neapolitan Fudge 158 

Sponge 178 

New England Brown Bread 67 

Plum Pudding Steamed 203 

Nougatines, Fruit 157 



Page 

Nut Breads, Use of 41 

Nutritive Value of Pecan 29 



O 

Oatmeal Date Cakes 141 

Delights 141 

Fruit Bread 46 

Mush 231 

Patties 139 

Okra Soup 348 

Olive and Cottage Cheese Sand- 
wiches 318 

(Ripe) Sandwiches ..323 

Omelet 250 

Goldenrod 251 

Green Pepper 250 

Tomato and Cheese 252 

Onions, Casserole 216 

Escalloped 228 

Rice Stuffed 231 

Stuffed 245 

Orange, Bread 62 

Bavarian Cream 180 

Brown Bread 61 

Cake 115 

Marmalade Conserve 333 

Cups Salad 304 

Filling (Cake) 126 

Fritters 338 

Graham Bread 68 

Honey Biscuits 73 

Jelly Cups 295 

Peel Bread 64 

Pie 272 

Pralines 160 

Pudding 202 

Puff Cakes 138 

Short Cake 72 

Uncooked Frosting 127 

"Oriental Fruitade Cake" 116 



P 

Panned Egg Plant 230 

Potatoes 232 

Tomatoes 233 

Parfaits, Maple 193 

Marshmallow ...195 

Pineapple ..197 

Parisian Sweets 159 

Parkerhouse Rolls 52 

Parkin 86 

Parsnip Patties 229 

Rice Cakes » 233 

Paste Fruit 154 

Pastries 25§ 

Pastries, Apple Dumpling 260 

Chantilly Tarts 265 

Cheese Straws 262 

Strips 268 

Fig 264 

Fruit -.270 

Spiced Cheese Straws 271 

386 



Page 

Pastry Flour 36, 256 

Pastry, Plain 258 

Patrician Cakes 140 

Cream Dessert 181 

Fruit Cocktail 297 

Washington Pie 181 

Patties, Celery 215 

Cheese 217 

Oatmeal 139 

Parsnip ....229 

Potato 2.36 

Rice 238 

Peach Cobbler 204 

Conserve 333 

Delight Salad 296 

Ice Cream 196 

Pear Salad 296 

Prickly Salad 298 

Red Salad 298 

Peas, Casserole 218 

Entree 227 

Patties 233 

Potato Cakea with 236 

Potato Croauettes 234 

Soup 344 

Soup, Cream of 347 

Tomato Loaf 232 

Pecan, Baskets, Glace 161 

Clusters 162 

Devilled 155 

Fondant-covered 154 

Glace 159 

Powder 341 

Salted I 165 

II 165 

III 165 

Men 166 

Pecan, Tho 7 

Amino Acids in the 13 

A Replacement for Milk 14 

As a Body Regulator 29 

Assists Children's Growth.... 14 

A Valuable Staple Food 10 

Best Tissue-Building Material 15 

Calorie Value 10 

Carbohydrates 19 

Quality, not Quantity 19 

Fats 15 

Assurance Against Con- 
stipation 18 

Easy to Digest 16 

Easily Assimilated 17 

Healthfulness of 30 

Higher Food Talue of 12 

History of Use 7 

Mastication of 31 

Most Concentrated Food 11 

Nutritive Value of 29 

Percentage Analysis 10 

Popularity of 31 

By Indians 7 

De Soto 7 

Washington 8 

Purity of 28 

Jefferson 9 



Rich in Lime and Iron. 



21 



Pecan (Continued) Page 

The Low Protein Diet 11 

Vitamin Content 24 

Vitamin A 25 

Vitamin B 26 

Pensacola Pudding 182 

Penuche 166 

Cream 152 

Maple 161 

Pepper, and Cheese Sandwich. .317 

Log Sandwich 320 

Salad, Stuffed 299 

Sandwiches 320 

Steamed 241 

Stuffed 242 

Rice Cases 241 

Peppermint Creams .162 

Dainty Dessert .183 

Peppernuts 139 

Perfection Salad 295 

White Cake 128 

"Philadelphia Dutch" Bread... 67 

Physical Leavening 57 

Pies 255 

Apple 260 

and Date 261 

and Raisin 259 

Banana Cream 260 

Blueberry 260 

Buttermilk 259 

Butterscotch 259 

Carrot ..263 

Cherry 261 

Chess 263 

Chocolate 262 

Cocoanut Custard 264 

Cranberry 262 

Cream 266 

Custard 264 

Cocoanut 264 

Maple 270 

Date 265 

Spice 265 

Digestibility of 255 

Fruit 267 

Fresh 269 

Butter 264 

General Reminders 256 

Grapefruit Meringue 268 

Lemon 270 

Chiffon 263 

Tarts 274 

Maple Custard 270 

Meringue, Grapefruit 268 

Pineapple 267 

Pumpkin 269 

Mexican Praline 268 

Mince I 266 

II 26« 

Molasses 270 

Orange 272 

Pineapple 271 

Meringue 267 

Plain Pastry, Recipe of 257 

Plum 269 

Prune 272 



387 



Pies (Continued) Page 

Pumpkin 267 

Meringue 269 

Raisin I 273 

II 274 

Tarts 272 

Rhubarb 271 

Strawberry 273 

Sweet Potato "ili 

The Man's Favorite Dessert.. 256 

Pimento Cheese Relish 325 

Pineapple, Baked, Dessert 173 

Cake 120 

and Cherry Salad 297 

Conserve *>gj 

and Rhubarb 337 

Cream Dessert 182 

Frosting 127 

Ice 195 

Ice Cream 195 

Marguerites J*« 

Meringue Pie 2b7 

Parfait J97 

Pie 271 

Salad |94 

Frozen 

Jellied 291 

Squares (Cake) }J° 

Squares (Candy) lb* 

Sweet Potatoes fgf 

Trifle 1 °» 

Pinwheel Rolls 84 

Frosted |JJ 

Pistachio Salad 296 

Planning the Meal... 351 

Platter of Vegetables 235 

Plum Conserve 334 

11?.. :::::: :::::::::: :::::: v.fi 

"Porcupines" Dessert 185 

Potato, Balls 235 

Cakes with Peas. 236 

Casserole Au Gratin 219 

Cheese- Stuffed .. ; 222 

Cheese and, in Ramekins 215 

Chocolate Cake 102 

Spice Cake J00 

Cocoa Cake j£> 

Croquettes, Parsley g*6 

Pea .--.234 

Savory 

Diced, with Tomato Sauce... 225 

Half- Shell 236 

Hash 234 

Loaf 238 

Panned f*« 

Parsley Croquettes 

Patties 23b 

Puff 234 

Salad I 300 

Salad II fW 

Soup 846 

Soup, Cream of 340 

Stuffed 244 

Loaf 241 

Vegetable Salad .300 



Page 

Praline, History of 147 

Pralines 164 

Maple 162 

Mexican Pie 268 

Orange 160 

Preserved Figs 335 

Prince of Wales Marmalade. . .335 
Principles of Bread-Making.... 42 

Protein 3 

Protein Ration 4 

Prune Bread 69 

Conserve 335 

Fritters 339 

Pie 272 

Pudding 201 

Steamed 205 

Puddings, Apple 200 

Glace 198 

Banana Custard 174,199 

Bread 199 

Cherry Batter 200 

Chocolate 198 

Date 201 

Lemon Bread 204 

Orange 202 

Pensacola 

Plum, New England 203 

Prune 201 

Rhubarb Batter 200 

Rice 201 

Snow Balls 202 

Steamed, Carrot 204 

Cherry 205 

Chocolate 202 

Date 205 

New England Plum 203 

Prune 205 

Tapioca 20b 

Tutti Frutti 206 

Puffets, Graham »| 

Puffs, Cream 

Pumpernickel • : J™ 

Pumpkin Meringue Pie 2b9 

Pi e ^bT 

Purity of Pecan 28 



Q 

Quick Breads 57 

Healthfulness of gj 

Definition of 57 



R 

Raisin, and Apple Pie 259 

Applesauce Cake 94 

Biscuits £5 

and Bran Bread b£ 

Bread I 68 

II 68 

Brown 60 

and Cinnamon J>7 

Steamed •• 69 

Sultana , 68 



388 



Raisin (Continued) Page 

Cake 118 

and Celery Sandwich 322 

and Cheese Sandwich 317 

Coffee Cake 50 

Cracker Cake 116 

and Date Sandwich 322 

Drop Cake 137 

Filling (Cake) 126 

Gingerbread 117 

Graham Cracker Cake 117 

and Grape Conserve 333 

Ice Cream 196 

Mary Todd's Cake 114 

Mocha Cake 115 

Muffins 82 

Pie I 273 

Pie II 274 

Rocks 142 

Sandwich 322 

and Apple 322 

and Celery 322 

and Cheese 317 

and Date 322 

Silver Cake 119 

Spiced Cake 123 

Sultana Bread 68 

Tarts 272 

Tea Rings 75 

and Whole Wheat Bread 47 

Raised Buns 53 

Ramekins, Cheese in 222 

Corn 224 

Sweet Potatoes in 246 

Rarebit 343 

Raspberry Flummery Dessert.. 184 
Marguerites 142 

Refrigerator Cake 184 

Chocolate 175 

Relishes 311 

Apple 325 

Cheese 326 

Balls .... 324 

Cottage Cheese 324 

Cream Cheese 325 

Balls 326 

Jellied 326 

Pimento Cheese 325 

Spiced Tomato .326 

Tomato 325 

Rhubarb Batter Pudding 200 

Conserve) 336 

and Pineapple 337 

Marmalade . 336 

Pie 271 

Rice, Baked 213 

Balls 237 

Beets Stuffed with. 217 

Cakes .237 

Carolina 238 

Casserole 218 

Cheese 237 

Croquettes 238 

Griddle Cakes 78 

Loaf 239 

Mexican Croquettes 232 



389 



Rice (Continued) Page 

Parsnip Cakes 233 

Patties 238 

in Pepper Cases 241 

Peppers Stuffed with 235 

Pineapple Cream 184 

Pudding 201 

Spanish 240 

Tomato Loaf 248 

Waffles 85 

Ring Rolls 74 

Ripe Olive Sandwich .323 

Rocks, Date 132 

Raisin ....142 

Spice 141 

Rolled Caramels 164 

Rolls (Baking Powder) 74 

Butterscotch 85 

Pinwheel 84 

Raisin 85 

Ring 74 

Rolls (Yeast) 48 

Bran 51 

Cinnamon 49 

Dinner 48 

Finger 49 

Frosted Pinwheel 51 

Parkerhouse 52 

Potato Spiced 52 

"Schnecken" 54 

Rose Buds 163 

Jam Sandwich 324 

Salad 298 

Russian Dressing 307 

Rye Bread 69 

and Graham Bread 66 



S 

Salads 277 

Apple Bloom 279 

Sandwich 279 

Asparagus 280 

Stuffed Tomatoes 280 

Banana 285 

Bean 284 

Beet .....284 

Cabbage 285 

Canton 286 

Celery 287 

and Potato 287 

Cheese Stuffed Peppers 299 

Combination 286 

Cottage Cheese 286 

and Watercress 283 

Cranberry 287 

Cream Fruit 289 

Cucumber 283 

Boat ....282 

and Celery 291 

and Cheese 289 

Daisy .......... 288 

Date 289 

Dressings for — 277 

Egg 290 



Salads (Continued) Page 

Fairy 288 

Flip Cups 279 

Fresh Fruit 290 

Frozen 285 

Cheese 282 

Fruit 284 

Pimento Cheese 283 

Pineapple 280 

Fruit Cup 281 

Cocktail 281 

General Directions 277 

Gingerale 283 

Glace 282 

Grape 284 

Grapefruit Basket 288 

Green Pea 280 

Iced Fruit 281 

Jellied Apple 294 

Celerj 293 

Egg 293 

Fruit 294 

Pineapple . 291 

Keystone 290 

Lima Bean 292 

Loaf Cheese 292 

Log Cabin 293 

Luncheon 291 

Marshmallow Fruit 292 

Meet Demand for Uncooked 

Foods 277 

Mint 295 

Mixed Vegetable 299 

Orange Cups 304 

Jelly Cups 295 

Patrician Fruit Cocktail 297 

Peach Delight 296 

Pear 296 

Perfection 295 

Pineapple 294 

and Cherry 297 

Pistachio 296 

Potato I .300 

II 300 

and Vegetable 300 

Prickly Pear 298 

Red Pear 298 

Pimento Cheese 283 

Rose 298 

Source of Uncooked Fat and 

Protein 277 

Shamrock ...297 

Star Vegetable 301 

Stuffed Beet 299 

Pepper 299 

Tomato 301 

Tomato Cocktail 303 

Jelly .. 302 

Shamrock 302 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Cel- 
ery 302 

Cheese 303 

Cucumber 301 

Lima Beans 303 



Salads (Continued) Page 

Uncooked Vegetables 304 

Vegetable 304 

Watermelon Cocktail '.305 

Log Cabin 305 

Salad Dressings 277, 305 

goiled 306 

Cream Jelly 307 

Fluffy Mayonnaise .306 

French 307 

Fruit 306 

Salad 307 

Mayonnaise ...305 

Russian 307 

Sauce Tartar .308 

Thousand Island 308 

Vegetable 308 

Salted Pecans I.... 165 

II 165 

III .....165 

Salted Pecan Men 166 

Saltines, Fruit Top 131 

Salts, or Minerals 3 

Sandwiches 311 

Apple 313 

Applebutter 314 

Asparagus 313 

Banana .-. 313 

Butter Canapes 314 

Canape* 314 

Canton 315 

Carrot 315 

Celery 315 

Cheese and Bean 315 

and Celery ...314 

and Date 313 

and Egg 316 

and Horseradish 315 

and Olive 316 

and Pepper 317 

and Pineapple 316 

and Raisin 317 

Cheese Canape 316 

Club 319 

Cottage Cheese 317 

and Olive 318 

Cream Cheese 318 

Date ...318 

Egg 318 

Fruit Cheese 319 

Horseradish 318 

Lettuce 317 

Loaf 321 

Mint Butter 319 

Mosaic 320 

Pepper 320 

Logs , 320 

Practically a Complete Diet.. 311 

Raisin 322 

and Apple 322 

and Celery ..322 

and Date 322 

Ripe Olive 323 

Rose Jam 324 



390 



Sandwiches (Continued) Page 

Spanish 323 

Spearmint 321 

Tomato Canap§ 323 

Tutti Frutti 323 

Usefulness of ...311 

Vegetable 322 

Sauces 197 

Chocolate 197 

Fruit 198 

Grape 197 

Maple 198 

Cream 197 

Tartar 308 

Sauerkraut 239 

"Schnecken" Rolls 54 

Scones 77 

Sea Foam 165 

Shamrock Salad 297 

Sherbets. Canton 189 

Christmas Frappe 191 

Fruit 194 

Milk ....192 

Fruit Milk 192 

Watermelon 195 

Shirley Bran Drops 144 

Shortcake 76 

Orange 72 

Silver Raisin Cake 119 

Skillet Cake, Apricot 94 

Hawaiian 108 

Snow Ball Pudding 202 

"Sonnental" Cake 117 

Souffle, Asparagus 212 

Celery 216 

Cheese 225 

Coffee 175 

Grape Juice 176 

Sweet Potato 247 

Soups 344 

Celery 344 

Cream of Corn 344 

Pea 347 

Potato 345 

Spinach 345 

Frozen 346 

Okra 348 

Pea ..344 

Potato 346 

Spinach 347 

Tomato 347 

Bisque 347 

Cheese Bisque 344 

Vegetable 346 

Sour Milk Doughnuts 143 

Griddle Cakes 79 

Southern Candied Sweet Pota- 
toes 242 

"Lizzies" 144 

Silver Cake 119 

Spanish Praline Cake 118 

Rice Entree , 240 

Sandwich 323 

Spearmint Sandwich 321 

Spice Buns 53 

Cake llg 

White 123 

Cheese Straws 271 



Spice (Continued) Page 

Chocolate Cake 102 

Cookies 139 

Date Cake 119 

Drops 143 

and Fruit Cake 120 

Gingerbread 122 

Rocks 141 

Spiced Potato Rolls 52 

Raisin Cake 123 

Sweet Potatoes 239 

Tomato Relish 326 

Spinach Cheese Loaf 240 

Loaf 240 

Soup 347 

Sponge Cake 123 

Almond 93 

Lemon 112 

Neapolitan 178 

Spring Menus .. 368 

Squash, Stuffed 244 

Squares, Cake 93 

Chocolate 101 

Date 104 

Honey 158 

Pineapple 116 

Star Vegetable Salad 301 

Steamed Bread, Boston.. 59 

Cornmeal 69 

Graham 70 

New England Brown 67 

Raisin 69 

Cabbage 243 

Carrot Pudding 204 

Cherry Pudding 205 

Chocolate Pudding 202 

Date Pudding 205 

New England Plum Pudding. 203 

Peppers 241 

Prune Pudding 205 

Strawberry, Conserr* 336 

Custard 186 

Fluff Dessert 185 

Ice 196 

Ice Cream 196 

Jam 336 

Pie 273 

Straws, Cheese 262 

Spice .271 

Strips, Cheese 268 

Stuffed, Beet Salad 299 

Cantaloupe 186 

Cherry 166 

Dates 164 

Egg Plant 244 

Eggs 249 

Figs 344 

Onions 245 

with Rice 231 

Pepper Salad 299 

Peppers 242 

Potatoes 244 

Potato Loaf 241 

Squash 244 

Sweet Potatoes 243 

Tomato Entrees 243 

Salad 301 

391 



Stuffed (Continued) Page 

• Tomatoes with Celery Salad.. 302 

Cheese Salad 302 

Cucumber Salad ......... . .301 

Lima Beans Salad 303 

Suggestions for Menus 352 

Sultana Raisin Bread 68 

Summer Menus 353 

Sundae, Cantaloupe 189 

Surprise Gems 80 

Sweet Potato, Apple 245 

Apple Puff 242 

Cakes 243 

Candied 215 

Creole 226 

Glazed 228 

Loaf 245 

Marshmallow 228 

Mashed 230 

Pie 273 

Pineapple 234 

Puff 246 

Raisin 247 

Ramekins 246 

Souffle 247 

Southern Candied 242 

Spiced 239 

Stuffed 243 

Sweets, Parisian 159 



Tomato (Continued) Page 

Cocktail 303 

Croquettes 246 

Delicacy 343 

Gumbo 249 

Jelly Salad 302 

Loaf 248 

Panned 233 

Rarebit 247 

Relish 325 

Spiced 326 

Rice Loaf 248 

Shamrock Salad 302 

Soup 347 

Stuffed with Celery Salad.... 302 

Cheese Salad 303 

Cucumber Salad 301 

Lima Beans Salad .303 

Trifle, Pineappe 183 

Tutti Frutti, Cake Pilling 126 

Ice Cream 194 

Pudding 206 

Sandwich 323 

Twists, Cinnamon 75 

Coffee 77 

Orange Frosting 128 

Trytophane 13 



T 



T (Abbreviation Explained) 373 

t (Abbrevation Explained) 373 

Table of Contents XI 

Taffy 163 

Tapioca Pudding .206 

Tartar Sauce .....308 

Tea Biscuits 74 

Cakes 143 

Marmalade 72 

Muffins 82 

Temperatures for Cake-Baking 92 

Thousand Island Dressing 308 

Timbales, Bean 214 

Toast, Cheese 339 

and Rice 340 

Wafers 343 

Cinnamon 340 

Coffee Cake .341 

Cookies 139 

Sticks 342 

Tomato-Cheese 342 

Tomato Delicacy 343 

Tomato, Asparagus Stuffed 280 

Baked 214 

Balls 246 

Bisque 347 

with Cheese 344 

Breaded 215 

Canape 323 

and Celery Entree 221 

and Cheese, Omelet 252 

Toast 342 



U 

Uncooked Foods 277 

Uncooked Fruit Cake 124 

Vegetable Salad 304 

Upside-Down Cake 121 



Vegetable Salad, Mixed ...299 

Star 301 

Uncooked 304 

Vegetables, Casserole 219 

Dressing . .308 

Macedoine 250 

Platter of ...235 

Sandwich 322 

Soup ;..346 

Vermicelli Loaf 251 

Vitamin Content of the Pecan.. 24 
Vitamins 3 



W 

Wafers, Toasted Cheese 243 

Waffles, I 83 

II 84 

Breadcrumb 86 

Cornmeal 84 

Rice 85 



392 



Page 

Warm Weather Menus 353 

Washington Pie 185 

Patrician 181 

Watercress and Cottage Cheese 

Salad 283 

Water Ice 186 

Watermelon Cake 121 

Cocktail Salad 305 

Log Cabin Salad 30o 

Sherbet ..195 

Wheat Kernel, Composition or. 35 

Wheat, Varieties of 36 

White and Gold Layer 12o 

White Bread x(Baking Powder) . 
I 70 

ii :::: ™ 

III JO 

IV J} 

V 71 

Date"..' 74 

Syrup 16 

White Bread (Yeast) 

T 4o 

ii*::::::::: 47 

White Flour 36 



Page 

White Perfection Cake 129 

Spice Cake 123 

Whole Wheat, Bread (Yeast).. 47 
and Raisin (Baking Powder) 73 

Flour 36, 258 

Fruit Gems 83 

Griddle Cakes 81 

Muffins 82 

Raisin Bread (Baking Pow- 
der) 73 

Raisin Bread (Yeast) 47 

Wintergreen Creams 166 

Winter Menus 363 



Y 

Yeast Breads 41 

Nut Breads 41 

Pecans in 41 

Principles of Bread-Making.. 42 

Process of Making 43 

Yeast, How it Works 42 

Yum- Yum Cakes 144 



398 



