A Second Helping 

X. Matcel Boulestin 




HOTEL MAJESTIC PHILADELPHIA. 



nfe 



L 



A SECOND HELPING 



A 
SECOND HELPING 

or 
MORE DISHES FOR AMERICAN HOMES 



Ey 
X. MARCEL BOULESTIN 

fVith a Frontispiece by 
J. E. LABOUREUR 



NEW YORK : 

FREDERICK A. STOKES COMPANY 

PUBLISHERS 



Printed in Great Britain 



To my friend, 

A. H. Adair, 

voilh my thanks for his assistance in 

the recipes of some of the 

^' Imperial' ' Dishes. 



PREFACE 

This new collection of dishes is arranged on the 
plan followed in Simple French Cooking for 
English Homes. It contains, like its predeces- 
sor, a large number of really simple French 
dishes of daily usefulness, and a few more 
elaborate ones suitable for special occasions ; also 
some old English country recipes ^ and several 
curious colonial ones. Most of these are repro- 
duced by courtesy of Vogue, The Manchester 
Guardian and The Daily Express, and I hope that 
they will appeal, as apparently the first collection 
did, " to people who have a good cook, to those 
who only have a plain one and to those who have 
not got one at all." Should they fail to do so, I 
shall humbly, in the unforgettable words of 
Miss Ethel M. Dell, 

". . .to my judges make this one protest — 
A poor performance, but — I did my best." 

Most of the dishes in this book are meant for 
four or five people ; so that if you want to make 
them for more or for less, you increase or 
decrease the quantities proportionately. But, 

I "A widow has cold pie — nurse gives you cake, 
From gen'rous merchants ham or sturgeon take; 
The farmer has brown bread as fresh as day 
And butter fragrant as the dew of May, 
Cornwall squab pie, and Devon white pot brings 
And Lei'ster beans and bacon, food for kings ! " 

The Art of Cooking. 



Vll 



viii PREFACE 

needless to say, such dishes as Galantines, cold 
Bceuf en daube are for about eight or ten people 
or for several meals (they will keep for two or 
three days). Smaller ones would not be so 
good. 

The recipes for basic preparations, such as 
Consomme, Roux, Bechamel Sauce, Maitre dhotel 
Sauce, Court Bouillon, etc., are not given here 
as they have already appeared in " Simple 
French Cooking for English Homes." 



CONTENTS 



By Way of Hors d'oeuvre 








PAGB 

I 


Soups 








17 


Egg Dishes and Pilaffs . 








31 


Fish 








38 


Meat Dishes 








50 


Vegetables .... 








82 


Sweets and Jams 








. Ill 


Savouries .... 








135 


Exotic Dishes . , 








144 


Index 








153 



Celui qui revolt ses amis et ne donne aucun soin personnel 
au repas qui leur est prepar6 n'est pas digne d'avoir des amis. 

— Brillat-Savarin 

"... What hopes can there be of any Progress in Learning 
whilst our Gentlemen suffer their Sons at Westminster, Eaton 
and Winchester to eat nothing but Salt with their Mutton, and 
Vinegar with their Roast Beef upon Holidays? What Extensive- 
ness can there be in their Souls? Especially when upon their 
going thence to the University, their Knowledge in Culinary 
Matters is seldom enlarg'd, and their Diet continues very much 
the same and as to Sauces they are in profound Ignorance." 

Edmund King Letters to Dr. Lister 



BY WAY OF HORS D'CEUVRE 

I HAVE already remarked in my previous book 
on the mellowing influence of food on civilised 
beings. We know it : It is conducive to success 
and, which is more important, to happiness. 
This must not be overlooked even by dancers 
who jazz between courses, and by men who eat 
only for the sake of feeding. It was the opinion 
even in the days when Markham was writing his 
"English Housewife." "To speak then of the 
Knowledges which belong to our British House- 
wife — I hold the principal to be a perfect skill in 
Cookery. She that is utterly ignorant therein 
may not by the Lawes of strict Justice challenge 
the freedom of Marriage — because, indeede, She 
can perform but half her vow. She may love 
and obey but she cannot cherish and keepe her 
Husband." 

These are grave words, but not graver than 
the subject itself, I mean, not the British house- 
wife, but cooking, considered so to speak, from 
the higher point of view. Cuisine should be 
taken seriously first of all by the cook (obviously, 
that is if she is worthy of the name), and also by 
both hostesses and guests. 

Yet the income tax and the servant problem 
combine in making life complicated, and that is 
where the personal element comes in, tactfully, 
and changes what might have been an indifferent 



2 A SECOND HELPING 

dinner indifferently cooked, into a delicious one 
with just that touch of the ** unexpected " which 
makes for success. Therefore, the modern 
hostess should have that principal knowledge, 
which Markham values so highly, even if not for 
the ultimate end which he appraises. 

In fact, cooking — that is, real cooking, not just 
the plain roasting of beef and the boiling of 
potatoes and cabbage — is, as Meredith says in 
that curious manuscript written about 1850, "an 
occupation neither unbecoming or unworthy. . . 
We hope our fair readers will forgive us for 
telling them. Economy in a Wife is the most 
certain Charm to insure the affection and Industry 
of a husband. A small portion of the time which 
young Ladies sacrifice to torturing the strings of 
their piano/orie employed in obtaining Domestic 
Accomplishments, might not make them worse 
wives, or less agreeable companions to their 
Husbands." Although these Victorian virtues 
are perhaps a little less admired, the fact remains 
that many women do not really know much about 
" the conduct of the kitchen " and are entirely 
left to the merciless talent of their cook. 

It is not so, of course, in France, and it was 
not so centuries ago in England. We have the 
proof of this in many books, especially in the 
admirable "Closet" of Sir Kenelme Digbie. 
" My Lady Lasson," says he, " makes her finest 
minced Pyes of Neats tongues ; but she holdeth 
the most savoury ones to be of Veal and Mutton 
equal parts very small minced. Her finest crust 
is made by sprinkling the flour with cold water 
and then working the paste with little pieces of 
raw butter in good quantity. So that she useth 



BY WAY OF HORS D'CEURE 3 

neither hot water nor melted butter in them. 
And this makes the crust short and hght. After 
all the meat is seasoned and Plums and Citron 
peel, etc., is in the Coffin, she puts a little 
Ambered-sugar upon it. Then cover it with the 
Liddle and set it in the oven." 

It will be seen by this example that the 
maitresses de ntaison of these gone-by days knew 
not only how to order, but also how to make 
dishes. They could deal with " a Lusty Servant " 
and watch him, " his arms well washed, mix the 
honey and water together, labouring it with his 
hands at least an hour without intermission ; " 
they knew the virtues of herbs and roots, and if 
a dish was right, and why another was wrong. 
We cannot expect so much nowadays : life is 
not leisurely enough and the modern woman has 
other ambitions, but we can reasonably expect 
from her a little knowledge and some interest in 
domestic economy (or extravagance). 



How charming and instructive the lesser books 
of the 1830 period are! They are not over- 
powering like the works of the Giants ; they do 
not order, but they insinuate and enlighten, and 
as Max Beerbohm said (about Grego's drawings 
of the Brummel era), they have, indeed, the 
sentiment of style, and they reveal, with surer 
delicacy than does any other record, the spirit of 
the day. I was specially thinking, in writing 
this, of two little volumes, one cloth bound, by 
an English Police Magistrate, the other '• in the 
original calf" as the bookseller's catalogue says, 
by a Frenchwoman. 



4 A SECOND HELPING 

Needless to say, Mme. Aglae Adamson shows, 
at their best, the domestic virtues of the French, 
together with that almost uncanny common sense 
and that instinct of thrift so typical of the French 
bourgeoisie. Who else would, when giving an 
elaborate recipe for a pot-au-feu add " on ne doit 
point Jeter tecume derriere le feu, mats la mettre a 
part pour la soupe aux chiensV But hers is not 
only a cookery book. She deals with all the 
aspects of life in an ideal and practical country 
house. And there we have in profusion the 
valuable documents ; for if her advice about 
breeding rabbits is not particularly thrilling, her 
minute descriptions of the living rooms are re- 
markable. What an amusing reconstruction one 
could make of her dining-room, with its curtains 
of *^gros calicot avec une bordure d'indienne de 
couleur de trois on qiiatre pouces de large." Yet it 
is about clothes that she excels, that she reaches 
the heights ; there we have documents which 
show not only the fashion but the manners and 
the feelings of the period. 

Je voudrais dabord vous persuader de renoncer 
a ces longs corsets, qui, en vous faisant tenir comme 
une poupee empalee, vous privent de la souplesse qui 
est la grace. La vie a laquelle vous allez vous 
destiner, exigera beaucoup d'activite ; ilfaudra vous 
baisser pour cueillir des legumes, des Jleurs, arracher 
une herbe qui etouffe une plante che'rie, lever les bras 
tres haut pour atteindre un fruit. . . . Et comment 
(aire tout cela sans etre toujours a la torture, si vous 
etes emmaillotee dans voire corset ? " 

The modern woman, no doubt will smile when 
she sees what " beaucoup d'activite'' meant for the 
woman of 1830, according to dear Agla6; but 



BY WAY OF HORS D'CEUVRE 5 

Aglae had other qualities, she was alarmingly 
useful about the house and she knew everything 
about *^ I' education des canetons" and the proper 
treatment of servants. Perhaps her country 
house had the dulness of perfection. . . . 

In Thomas Walker's considerations on " The 
Art of Dining" we find, in a more literary form, 
the same common sense, also more thought and 
subtlety ; from the documentary point of view, 
his work is equally valuable. "At table, inter- 
course is prevented as much as possible by a 
huge centre-piece of plate and flowers, which cuts 
off about one-half the company from the other, 
and some very awkward mistakes have taken 
place in consequence, from guests having made 
personal observations upon those who were 
actually opposite to them. It seems strange that 
people should be invited to be hidden from one 
another. . . . When the company is arranged, 
then comes the perpetual motion of the attendants, 
the perpetual declining of what you do not want, 
and the perpetual waiting for what you do, or a 
silent resignation to your fate. To desire a 
potato and to see the dish handed to your next 
neighbour, and taking its course in a direction 
from you, round an immense table, with oc- 
casional retrograde movements and digressions, 
is one of the unsatisfactory occurrences which 
frequently take place. . . . With respect to wine, 
it is often offered when not wanted, and, when 
wanted, is perhaps not to be had till long waited 
for. It is dreary to observe two guests, glass in 
hand, waiting the butler's leisure to be able to take 
wine together, and then perchance being helped 
in despair to what they did not ask for ; and it 



6 A SECOND HELPING 

is still more dreary to be one of the two yourself. 
How different when you can put your hand on 
a decanter at the moment you want it ! " 

I wish I had been present at the little dinner 
given by this charming gentleman to a friend of 
his in the Temple and also at that other meal at 
Lovegrove's " where if you never dined, so much 
the worse for 3^ou." What a lesson in manners, 
what marvellous examples of English fare and 
habits, what choice of drinks, and, in spite of 
the rather large measure, what style about the 
whole thing ! 

"The dinner is to consist of turtle, followed 
by no other fish than whitebait, which is to be 
followed by no other meat but grouse, which are 
to be succeeded simply by apple fritters and 
jelly, pastry on such occasions being quite out 
of place. With the turtle, of course, there will 
be punch, with the whitebait champagne, and 
with the grouse, claret, I shall permit no other 
wines, unless perchance a bottle or two of port, 
as I hold variety of wines a great mistake. . . ." 
Which is all very noble and sound. 



We are no great eaters, any of us, and our 
dinners are short performances compared with 
those of the past centuries. The French peasant 
lives on very little, except on special occasions 
— weddings or harvest festivals — when he lets 
himself go, and " dines " from three o'clock till 
twilight, and drinks a corresponding quantity of 
wine. English servants, of course, consume an 
alarming quantity of "joints " and boiled 
vegetables ; but then, they will not touch any- 



BY WAY OF HORS D'OEUVRE 7 

thing else, either salad or those made-up dishes 
much appreciated upstairs ; and if the average 
Englishman generally consumes a " hearty " 
breakfast, on the other hand it will not in- 
frequently be found that for luncheon he eats 
next to nothing. 

The size of the dishes in "Gothic Cooking" 
was appalling and their number awe-inspiring, 
while the description of feasts in memoirs of the 
seventeenth century fills the modern man with a 
great deal of admiration and no little disgust ; 
but then, these were the days when the splendour 
of the Versailles galleries was only equalled by 
the filth of the staircases. Yet even more 
recently, in fact in the beginning of the nineteenth 
century, " big " dinners were the fashion and the 
rule. In a book published in Paris as late as 
1806, LArt de Faire la Cuisine pour Toutes les 
Fortunes, the author, who signs himself " Homme 
de Bouche" gives several specimens of menus ; 
the smallest, which is for twenty people, is fairly 
simple for the standards of the times, and I must 
say that the author ever so kindly admits that 
" il ne sera pas de rigueur de servir positivement 
tout ce qui y est indique'.'* The menu only 
contains : — 

Deux Potages 

Au Naturel 
Au riz, puree de racines 

Deux RelevIs 

Piece de Boeuf garnie 
Brocket a I'indienne 



8 A SECOND HELPING 

Dix Entrees 

Riz de Veau sautes 

Filets de volatile a la St. Garat 

Saute de filets de Perdreaux rouges 

Quenelles au consomme 

Petites touches 

Cotelettes de Veau piquees, glacees, sauce aux tomates 

Saute de Cotelettes d'Agneau 

Poulets a la chevalier 

Saute de filets de Merlans 

Carpefarcie, sauce italienne 

Deux Plats De R6ti 

Une poularde du Mans 
Cinq becassines 

Deux Flans 

Un gros Biscuit 

Un Buisson de petits gateaux 

Huit Entremets 

Gelee d' Orange 

Gelee de Marasquin 

Genoise 

Pets de Nonnes 

Chicoree a la creme 

Cardons a I'espagnole 

Chouxfleurs sauce brune 

Oignons glaces 

ViNGT-QUATRE ASSIETTES DE DeSSERT 

The recipes for these dishes are made up in 
the same lavish manner. For the potage au 
naturel you take eight or ten pounds of beef, 



BY WAY OF HORS D'CEUVRE 9 

eight fowls, four pounds of veal, and so on. Yet 
this was written at a time when cooking had 
grown less gross and more inspired, and when 
Brillat-Savarin, back from America, had 
published his subtle Physiologie du Gout; from 
which we must deduct that if we eat ever so 
much less it is not because we have better 
manners or have become less self-indulging, but 
simply because we are " through " more quickly, 
a disquieting confession of weakness suggestive 
of decadence.^ 

Of course, many people in the present day 
have a considerable capacity for eating, but in 
spite of isolated cases, modern appetites are 
much feebler than at the time when these menus 
were written. 



It is generally admitted that French people 
know what to eat, also that they sometimes do 
not eat quite as they should do, according to the 
English rules of " polite eating." Yet what is 
considered in England as bad table manners has 
often been carefully taught to the French child 
as perfectly good ones. The proof of this can 
be found in those strange books that have always 
been published in France, books about etiquette 
and politesse and savotr-vivre, and they make one 
wonder what kind of people are the keen readers 
of these manuals ; probably they correspond to 
the class of " genteel " people (in the sense which 
is now ascribed to that unfortunate and de- 

I, "Pour manger ume dinde truffce" — says the abbe Morelet 
**il convient d'etredeux,je ti'en use jamais aiitrement, aiusi j'en at 
une aujourd hut. Nous serons deux, la dinde et moi." 



lo A SECOND HELPING 

predated adjective) who, in England, hold a cup 
or a spoon with the fifth finger elegantly poised 
in the air. 

A certain manual for the use of the young 
contains in the chapter on table manners all 
sorts of rich and curious precepts : — 

On ne doit pas toujours tenir le couteau a la main. 

Le sel seprend avec la pointe du couteau qu'ilfaut 
avoir sain cTessuyer en le passant dans votre pain. 

Si votre soupe est trop chaude gardez vous bien de 
souffler pour la refroidir. 

Rien n'est plus incivil que de prendre quelque 
chose au plat avec la fourchette dont on se sert pour 
manger ; de lecher ses doigts, son couteau ou sa 
cuiller. . . . 

The author of the Apician Morsels also has 
something interesting to say on French manners 
and customs: he seems to think that even in 
those days (1829) they were very different from 
those of English people, and he devotes seven 
chapters to invitations, meals and " rules to be 
observed between the Inviter and Invitee." 

"At Paris they have several ways of deter- 
mining this affair (time of dinner) which is good 
to know, in order to arrive neither too soon nor 
too late. . . . Suppose then, the dinner to be 
named for five o'clock precisely, you must be at 
the spot b}"^ half-past five, where either the host 
himself, or some of his family, will do the honours 
of the waiting-room, which should be a well 
warmed saloon or chamber, according to circum- 
stances, in which the morning and evening papers 
ought to be present. 

" Half an hour after the appointed time, by the 
note of invitation, the master of the house arrives, 



/ 



BY WAY OF HORS D'CEUVRE ii 

a napkin under his arm, to announce that dinner 
is up." (Master of the house is no doubt a 
mistranslation of the word maitre d'hotel or 
majordome). ** From time to time, he who is 
nearest the door moves on in silence in order to 
pass into the dining-room ; the others pass in 
succession, without stopping ; the host closes the 
march, to accelerate those who are to follow. . . . 

" Two or three hours after dinner, the guests, 
silently and furtively, escape one by one. It 
would be as impolite to take your leave in a 
formal manner as not, in the course of eight days 
afterwards, at least, to pay what is called a visit 
of digestion." 

And the}^ were strict in those days, in England 
as much as in France, and our eleventh-hour 
notices would have shocked our author very 
much. He is very stern on the subject : "The 
person who invites is as strictly bound as the 
invited ; and under no pretext can he decline the 
invitation — cases of sudden indisposition, or 
imprisonment, being alone admissible under 
similar circumstances." 



The English habit of not talking about food 
strikes the foreigner, however long he may have 
stayed in England, as a very queer one — indeed, 
as a quite unnatural custom. It seems somehow 
so aloof and so ungrateful — that is, needless to 
say, if the dinner has been good (in other cases, 
on the whole, silence is better than any exhibition 
of peevishness or pained surprise). 

But think of a pleasant and successful dinner 
party of, say, twelve people ; try to visualise the 



12 A SECOND HELPING 

preparations : the hostess carefully supervising 
the menu : the cook up at dawn (at least, I like 
to think so) all eagerness and ingenuity, the 
kitchen-maid trying to peel the vegetables even 
better than she usually does ; the husband 
bringing up the wine after breakfast so that it 
should be chambre to perfection ; five women in 
their own houses wondering what to wear and if 
the meal will be up to the mark ; five men think- 
ing dreamily about that vintage port or that '65 
brandy they have a remembrance of being offered. 
Then, the last few moments before the curtain 
(or rather the kitchen lift) goes up : anxiety, 
peace, despair, hope, felt in turn with equal 
intensity, bring the cook to the verge of a nervous 
breakdown ; of course if ** they " are late the 
fillets of sole will be " burnt to a cinder, dear, 
and the cream sauce curdled ..." a strong cup 
of tea specially brewed by the faithful kitchenmaid 
brings her round. . . . And the meal, on a fail 
cies /olies, even primettrs sent by aeroplane from 
Paris. Then, not one word, not one about the 
whole affair. Dish after dish is carelessly eaten 
as if the performance was rather a bore, the tnot 
d'ordre being: not to pay any attention to any- 
thing so gross as food. 

In fact, twelve people *' upstairs " and at least 
four " downstairs " have been thinking of nothing 
else for some time and have, no doubt, immensely 
enjoyed the evening, yet they remain strangely 
and inhumanly silent. No one made a remark, 
even condescendingly, about that specially de- 
licious sauce, and even the Cheval Blanc 191 1 
was offered without any introduction. (No doubt 
it was drunk in beautiful old cut glass goblets, 



BY WAY OF HORS D'CEUVRE 13 

filled to the brim and entirely wrong for the 
wine). At least in France, you know what you 
are drinking and eating. It is true that the 
epicure who said that when you were eating a 
fine dish '* il fant en parler, avant, pendant, apres^' 
was perhaps slightlj' overdoing it. But one 
should talk about food and wine ; they taste 
better if j^ou do ; and there is no doubt that good 
food likes to be praised. 

The stars in the hair of the Blessed Damozel 
were seven, but the Arts in France are now 
nine: Peinture, Sculpture, Architecture, Gravure, 
Literature, Musique and Danse, Cinegraphie, 
Mode — and Cuisine. Cooking in fact is now 
treated with renewed respect and has become a 
topic of conversation as thrilling as the rate of 
exchange ; and, like the rate of exchange, this is 
one of the results of the war. 

The Frenchman, of course, was alwa3'S keen 
on good food and pardonabl}' proud of a cooking 
which had, at all times, an international reputa- 
tion. There were alwaj's man-ellous meals to 
be had either in the most famous Paris restaurant 
or in the smallest village inn. In those daj's no 
propaganda was wanted, no help needed, no 
warning necessar}'. But the immediate results 
of the war were two-fold ; a great number of 
chefs and cuisiniers were killed and a great 
number of foreigners began travelling in France, 
some of them being people who, before the war, 
would not have been able to do so. The hotel 
keepers and restaurant owners had to face the 
problem and to cope with this increase of visitors, 
while at the same time they were suffering from 



14 A SECOND HELPING 

a shortage of staff. So, many young men who 
were not sufficiently trained were engaged and 
promoted to the high rank of chefs, and French 
cooking began deteriorating on a large scale. It 
did not matter very much to the new travellers, 
because they themselves were not sufficiently 
trained in the appreciation of good food ; so that 
they unknowingly helped to bring about the 
decadence of cuisine in France. In many places, 
especially those patronised by tourists, indifferent 
and sometimes frankly bad cooking became 
alarmingly and increasingly the rule. It was 
not yet purposely done, but it was a dangerous 
step towards the fatal " good enough " policy. 
Something had to be done. 

It must be remembered that good cooking is 
to the Frenchman a serious question, not to be 
treated with levity. Indeed, everybody in 
France now realises as the gourmets of the old 
days did, that cooking and wines are things a 
country can be rightly proud of, not only for 
what they are, but for what they stand for, I 
mean, the finer civilisation. 

Listen to Laurent Tailhade about these 
pleasures of the table which are at the same 
time ^^ le premier besoin de la nature et le plus bel 
ornement des civilisations." 

" Le praticien en veste blanche, qui marmitonne 
les ragouts, enterine les sauces et conquiert sur 
Hephaistos la gloire des rotis, quand il ajoiite du 
poivre ou modere les epices, fomente, du meme coup, 
belle humeur et sociabilite. 

" Cest un grand poete, expert a creerdes emotions, 
grace au langage peremptoire des papilles gustatives. 

" // combine des saveurs, suscite des aromes. II 



BY WAY OF HORS D'GEUVRE 15 

degage le potentiel des truffes, les arcanes du gibier, 
comme d'autres elaborent wie sonate ou un sonnet. 
La cuisine pacificatrice eleve Fesprit, adoucit les 
moeurs. Elle fait jaillir I' eloquence des levres qu'elle 
a toucheesy 

I am told that many English people eat without 
even noticing what they are eating ; incredible 
as it may seem, it probably is true : even such a 
thing is possible in a country where one is not 
supposed to talk about food. Not so in France ; 
and now, thanks to the combined efforts of several 
important writers, well-known artists and gour- 
mets, and to the useful work done by dinner 
clubs and Comites Regionalistes, the real French 
cooking is not only regaining its old quality, but 
is also officially recognised : it is now protected, 
like " the rural beauties of England," freed from 
any international influence, so that it remains in 
its traditional purity what it was for centuries. 
The campaign goes on, hotel keepers are " told 
off," articles and books appear on the subject, 
politicians allude to it in their speeches, poets 
write verses in its honour ; finally the last two 
Salons d'Automne included amongst their shows 
a culinary section, in which each province worthy 
of being admitted on the glorious list showed 
the visitors its own good meal according to its 
own traditions. 

It is a great deal, but the important point is 
that rArt de la Cuisine is given at last the official 
recognition which the minor arts, like music and 
literature, have enjoyed for some Httle time. The 
late famous chef (whose name I cannot recollect), 
who talked of sculpture as " une des branches de 
la Patisserie" would feel intensely gratified. 



i6 A SECOND HELPING 

Indeed, even the damage done by motoring 
(hurried bad meals), is being repaired by motor- 
ing (hurrying to good meals), for men have been 
known to tour the provinces in search of inns 
famous or unknown, but perfect ; the Province 
triumphs over Paris, the "local dish " is exalted, 
and the Ninth Art stands on a high pedestal, 
crowned with, instead of laurel, bay leaves, 
thyme, cloves, and a little parsley — against a 
pathetic background of earthenware pots, copper 
saucepans, fruit and vegetables, designed by 
Dufy, Laboureur or Galanis. 

I can faintly see the statue of the old household 
god once more honoured. He is not awe- 
inspiring, and his is not an image carved in 
marble, for his face has never been seen. It is 
made of rough earth, of smoke, of fragrances — 
the ones he likes, which do not belong to the 
altar, but to the kitchen garden. He appears 
and disappears, he smiles, he dispenses happiness. 



SOUPS 17 



SOUPS 

This chapter contains many pleasant soups, 
simple, succulent and economical, mostly made 
of vegetables and, so to speak, for every day 
wear ; also, some more elaborate ones suitable 
for dinner parties. They are all, at least, worth 
trying, for as the Mock-Turtle used to sing : 
" Who would not give all else for two p 
'Ennyworth only of beautiful soup ? " 

SOUPE AU POISSON. 

Fish Soup. 

Most people usually associate the fish soup 
either with Marseilles or with America ; indeed, 
both the "bouillabaisse" and the "chowder" are 
well known and remarkably good when well 
prepared. But I came across some quite good 
fish soup at Boulogne last autumn during the 
famous " fish week," and I tasted a very pleasant 
one once in a small village near Dinard. Need- 
less to say, these dishes never appear on the 
menu of even the smallest hotel, probably because 
the patron thinks, rightly or wrongly, that they 
are not civilised enough for visitors; as a matter 
of fact, the food the patron and his wife have on 
a corner of the kitchen table is often better than 
the more elaborate dishes which are sent to the 
lable d'hote. 



l8 A SECOND HELPING 

The fish soup, which is very popular with 
Breton fishermen, is simple to make and very 
pleasant. It is very different from the Provencal 
dish of the same type, as no oil is used for the 
cooking and it does not contain crab, saffron, 
tomato or any of the ingredients which give the 
" bouillabaisse " its special flavour. You simply 
chop very fine and brown well in a good piece of 
the best butter what the Bretons call *^ des 
herbes" that is, spring onions and sorrel (about 
a handful), one carrot, one potato, a little parsley, 
chives and (unexpectedly) mint; add salt and 
pepper, boiling water, bring to the boil, put in 
some fish (it does not matter very much which 
as long as it is not a flat fish) and cook about 
twenty minutes. They eat it with bread and 
boiled potatoes, and as the man said all too 
modestly, " (^a aide a faire passer le pain.'' 

For a more civilised table, it will of course be 
better to pass it through a sieve, and remove the 
skin and bones of the fish before serving, but 
*' les herbcs " should be serv^ed with the pieces of 
fish. 

CONSOMME AUX HUITRES. 

Oyster Soup. 

Take a good-sized piece of beef, some bones 
with a marrow bone as well, and put them in a 
saucepan with salted water. Bring to the boil 
and skim carefully, after which add the following 
vegetables : three carrots, two onions, one leek, 
one turnip, and some parsley. The consomme 
should then simmer for five or six hours. Then 
skim it again very thoroughly and pass it through 
a fine sieve. 



SOUPS 19 

Poach the oysters for a few minutes in white 
wine, place them in the soup tureen and pour the 
consomme over them. 



POTAGE A LA BISQUE 

Put in a saucepan one onion, one carrot cut 
in sHces, a little parsley and thyme (all previously 
browned in butter), two pints of water, a glass of 
white wine, a tablespoonful of wine vinegar, a 
little brandy, and seasoning. Throw in your 
ecrevisses, about one dozen for five people (or 
small crabs if crayfish is not available, or a 
smallish lobster). Remove them when cooked, 
take all the eatable parts and pound them well. 
Meanwhile, cook a handful of rice in the stock ; 
when cooked pound it and add it to the flesh of 
the shell-fish. Pass this mixture through a fine 
sieve and add it to the stock which must be also 
carefully strained. Cook slowly for half an hour, 
add a little more white wine, a small piece of 
butter and cook, stirring occasionally till reduced 
to the required quantity. Just before serving 
" bind " it with cream and the yolks of two eggs. 
See that it is highly seasoned, and do not keep 
it waiting. It should have the consistency of 
fresh cream. 

POTAGE PRINTANIER 

This soup, as its name implies, is at its best in 
the spring. Get some carrots and turnips which 
have, then, all the charm of youth ; wash them 
well and scrape them lightly, their skin is very 
thin and will come off easily. Also get a white 



20 A SECOND HELPING 

cabbage, remove the outside leaves and use the 
heart only ; cut it in four quarters and the other 
vegetables in thin narrow slices ; add the white 
part only of two leeks, and cook all this very 
slowly in butter in a saucepan, keeping the lid 
on all the time. When tender, add some good 
consomme, the heart of a lettuce cut in four, a 
handful of fresh peas and a little chopped chervil. 
You should add consomme in sufficient quantity 
so that there is enough for your purpose when it 
has been reduced by one-third, as it should do, 
on a slow fire. See if it is properly seasoned 
and, just before serving, add in the yolk of one 
egg well beaten and mix it well with this pleasant 
mixture of spring vegetables. 

POTAGE PAYSANNE. 

This soup is simply a more civilised version 
of a peasant soup from the South of France, 
where, needless to say, they do not bother to 
pass the vegetable through a sieve as prescribed 
here; nor do they use cream for "binding" it, 
but only the yolk of an egg. 

Take two potatoes, two leeks, two onions, two 
carrots, two tomatoes, one turnip. Cut them in 
slices and fry them a few minutes in a table- 
spoonful of olive oil (or a little butter if you 
prefer). Then add one clove, a little parsley, 
salt, and coarsely broken pepper, and, little by 
little, hot water in sufficient quantity. It should 
cook about one hour, by which time it has 
reduced to the amount required. Then pass the 
vegetables through a sieve and add them to the 
soup, together with a tablespoonful of cream. 



SOUPS 21 

Mix well and cook a little longer. Just before 
serving add the yolk of an egg, stirring well. 
You can vary the taste of this soup by having 
more or less carrots, or adding celery or grated 
cheese. 

POTAGE AUX GAROTTES 

Garrot Soup 

Take one pound of small carrots, scrape and 
wash them well and put them into a saucepan 
with two pints and a half of cold water, salt, 
pepper, one or two onions, and a few bay leaves. 
If you have a ham bone to put in, it will give a 
good flavour to the soup. Bring the soup to the 
boil and let it simmer for three or four hours. 
Then remove the carrots and pass them through 
a sieve into a clean saucepan. Pour the soup 
over them through a strainer, add a cup of 
consomme or meat stock, cook a few minutes 
more, and just before serving " bind " the soup 
with the beaten yolk of an egg. 

PUREE DE GIBOURE 

Bean Soup 

This soup, which is of the "rustic" kind, is 
much appreciated by the inhabitants of the Basque 
country ; it is seldom made in the other parts of 
France. Soak some haricot beans for twelve 
hours (if they are dry ones) and put them in 
salted water with equal quantity of potatoes. 
Ghop together finely two shallots, two heads of 
garlic, olives and two leeks. Bring to the boil 



22 A SECOND HELPING 

and cook for at least three hours on a moderate 
fire. Pass through a sieve, add a little beefstock, 
a good deal of freshly ground pepper, and just 
before serving, if you like, the yolk of one egg. 
This soup should be neither too thick nor too 
clear. It has a pleasant taste. 



POTAGE A LA PUR£E DE MARRONS 

Chestnut Soup 

This is an old provincial recipe for chestnut 
soup ; it is rather out of the ordinary and a 
pleasant change from the better-known kind of 
soups. Take a pound of chestnuts (for five or 
six people), remove the outer skin and boil them 
in a narrow and deep saucepan in salted water 
till the water begins to boil, after which you can 
easily remove the thin skin ; then put at the 
bottom of a saucepan a clove, a bay leaf, a few 
small pieces of bacon, one large potato and a 
carrot cut in slices, salt and pepper ; over this 
the chestnuts and water, and cook them till they 
are soft. Drain them and pound them well, add 
a sufficient quantity of good stock, breadcrumbs 
(one slice of stale bread will do), the potato 
which has boiled with the chestnuts, and pass the 
whole thing through a sieve, so that it is as 
smooth as cream. Bring it to the boil and let it 
simmer a little while. Just before serving j^ou 
can, if you like, " bind " it with either cream or 
the yolk of an egg. It should be served with 
croutons crisply fried in butter, and the con- 
sistency should be that of an ordinary thick 
soup. The old recipe goes on giving a variation 



SOUPS 23 

on the same theme, in which vegetable stock is 
used instead of meat stock — for Fridays and 
other jours maigres. 

TAPIOCA AUX TOMATES 

Cut four or five tomatoes into slices and fry 
them in butter, with a chopped onion, for about 
fifteen minutes. Add salt and pepper and pass 
them through a sieve into a large saucepan. 
Add one quart of boiling water and let the soup 
simmer. About ten minutes before serving bring 
to the boil again and throw in two tablespoons- 
fuls of tapioca, stirring often so that the tapioca 
does not stick together, the fine granulated 
French kind being the best. 

POTAGE AUX HERBES MAIGRES 
Take a handful of sorrel, remove the stalks, 
and cut it very thin. Do the same to two 
lettuces and to a handful of chervil, and cook all 
these in butter till thoroughly soft and almost 
" melted " ; then add hot water, salt and pepper, 
bring to the boil, and let it simmer for half an 
hour or so. Just before serving " bind " it by 
adding the yolks of two eggs, stirring them in 
quickly. If both sorrel and chervil are un- 
obtainable, which sometimes happens in London, 
use instead spinach and parsley treated in the 
same fashion, but it should be remembered that 
spinach takes a little longer to cook than sorrel. 

TOURIN BORDELAIS 
Take two or three large onions, peel and wash 
them, and cut them into thin slices. Put into a 



24 A SECOND HELPING 

saucepan a tablespoonful of pork fat and melt it 
on a slow fire, add the onions, and cook them 
very gently until they are evenly cooked. Pour 
in about three pints of cold water, add salt and 
pepper, and boil for ten minutes. Then put the 
yolks of three eggs in a large cup with good 
stock, and mix well. Add this to the soup, stir 
it well, and serve before the soup has time to 
boil again, otherwise it would curdle. 

CREME DE RIZ 

Cook about two tablespoonsfuls of ground rice, 
just the quantity of milk necessary for the 
purpose, add a piece of butter the size of a large 
egg and cook it a few minutes. Add then about 
two pints of consoin77ie (prepared in the classical 
way with beef, veal bones and the usual vege- 
tables), and cook the whole thing for about 
three-quarters of an hour. Also cook in another 
saucepan a handful of vermicelli broken into 
very small pieces (it is better to cook it in 
consomme instead of water) and throw it in the 
soup at the last minute with a liaison of cream 
and 3'^olks of eggs. This soup should be rather 
highly seasoned. 

POTAGE DE GROUSE. 

Put in a saucepan carrots and onions sliced, 
parsley and two old partridges, from which you 
have removed the wings, also a few bones and 
bacon rind ; cook this for a few minutes on a 
moderate fire, then add water in sufficient 
quantity to allow for reduction, and a glass of 
white wine. Bring to the boil, skim well, add 



SOUPS 25 

the white of the partridges cut in small pieces, 
seasoning, and let it simmer for a couple of hours. 
Pass through a fine sieve and use this game 
stock for the grouse soup, which should be done 
in the following manner. 

Put the stock in a saucepan, add about one 
ounce of arrowroot previously mixed with a glass 
of sherry and a small quantity of same stock and 
bring to the boil. Take a grouse, remove the 
white flesh, roast it, put it in the stock and cook 
slowly for one hour or so. See that it is properly 
seasoned, pass through a sieve and pour the soup 
over the white flesh of the grouse, which mean- 
while has been cooked in butter and cut in thin 
slices. 

POTAGE ECOSSAIS. 

This soup is almost a stew. I had it once in 
France at the house of some friends who had 
treasured the recipe since about 1848. Strangely 
enough, it was mentioned to me, later, by a friend 
who said he used to have it at his people's in the 
North of Ireland ; they are of Scottish origin, 
like this soup, and like many other things in the 
North of Ireland. The coincidence is interesting, 
the soup quite delicious and easy to prepare. 

You take some good stock prepared in the 
classical wa}'^ and cook in it one (or two if there 
are many people) young chicken ; meanwhile you 
cook about a dozen leeks (they should be young 
and tender and white), you drain them well, then 
cut them in half, put them in a soup tureen with 
the members and breast of the chicken, nicely 
trimmed ; pour the soup over them and serve 
very hot. 



26 A SECOND HELPING 

CREME DE POIS VERTS. 
Pea Soup. 

Put in a saucepan, about a quarter full of 
water, the bones and carcase of a chicken together 
with two slices of very lean bacon, one onion, 
and a little mint. Add salt, bring to the boil, 
and keep simmering for about two hours and a 
half. Allow this to cool, and carefully remove 
the fat. In another saucepan boil one pound of 
fresh peas. When these are cooked pass them 
through a sieve. Stir in about half a pint of 
milk, mixing the peas and milk well ; add to it 
the yolk of one egg, well beaten. 

Pass through a strainer the stock first prepared, 
put it into a clean saucepan, and bring nearly to 
the boil ; then very slowly stir in the milk and 
peas mixing and bring to the boiling point once. 
Just before serving add a good tablespoonful of 
cream. 

POTAGE SANTE. 

Take a good piece of brisket of beef, place it in 
a large saucepan with sufficient cold water and 
bring to the boil. Skim well and add one large 
onion with one or two cloves stuck in it, salt and 
pepper, and one pound of carrots. Bring to the 
boil and keep boiling gently for about four hours 
and a half. Then carefully skim off as much of 
the fat as possible and remove the carrots. Pour 
the soup through a fine strainer, and return to 
the saucepan, adding the carrots, which should 
have been well mashed with a fork. Just before 
serving the soup " bind " it with the well-beaten 
yolk of an egg. 



SOUPS yj 

POTAGE AUX CONCOMBRES. I 

Cucumber Soup. 

Take a medium-sized cucumber, cut off the 
skin, leaving just a few shreds of it uncut. Then 
cut the vegetable into slices. Fry these in butter 
until brown, after which remove them. Then fry 
two sliced onions in the same way. 

Put these vegetables with the fat in which they 
were fried in a saucepan and cover with sufficient 
stock made from chicken bones, adding salt and 
some black pepper, also a little grated nutmeg, 
a few cloves, and one or two pimentos. Bring to 
the boil, and keep at boiling point for half an 
hour, after which strain carefully and return the 
soup to the saucepan with a piece of butter about 
the size of a matchbox. Just five minutes before 
serving add one tumblerful of milk and the 3^olks 
of two eggs well beaten, stirring well. Serve 
with little pieces of bread fried crisply in bacon 
fat. 

POTAGE AUX CONCOMBRES. II. 

Take two handsful of sorrel, remove the hard 
part from the leaves, wash these well and melt 
them in a saucepan with a small piece of butter. 
When cooked pour over it sufficient hot water, 
add salt and pepper, a little chopped parsley, and 
a cucumber cut in slices. After one hour or so 
mash all the vegetables through a sieve, return 
the puree obtained to the saucepan with the 
vegetable stock, let it simmer an Ave Maria 
while (as Sir Kenelme Digbie says), and just 
before serving bind with a yolk of ^gg and a 
little cream. 



28 A SECOND HELPING 

POTAGE A L'ALSACIENNE 

For this soup, you must have the liver, heart, 
and kidneys of a goose, to which you should add 
a quarter of a pound of pig's liver. Put these in 
a saucepan with a little water, and season with 
salt, pepper, some grated nutmeg, and the juice 
of half a lemon, adding also one onion and a little 
parsley. Let this simmer gently until quite soft, 
when the liver and so on should be removed and 
passed through a very fine sieve into the soup 
tureen. When you are ready to serve the soup 
pour into the tureen sufficient consomme, which 
should be previously prepared. 

POTAGE AU POTIRON 

Pumpkin Soup 

This soup is a favourite one with the Maltese. 
It is a real peasant soup and should be served 
with rough chunks of crusty black bread (which 
can be bought in any Italian shop in Soho). 
Have some good meat stock, add a little more 
water, four onions, three sliced tomatoes and six 
slices of pumpkin. Boil slowly until the 
vegetables are cooked. Remove the pumpkin 
and pass it through a sieve. Strain the soup 
and pour it over the puree of pumpkin. Stir it 
well and serve very hot. See that it is highly 
seasoned. 

ERWTENSOEP 
Dutch Pea Soup 

This is a classical Dutch soup and the recipe 
comes from the Port Van Clef, which is probably 
the most typically Dutch Restaurant in 
Amsterdam. 



SOUPS 29 

Take a pound of split peas, and soak them for 
twenty-four hours in seven pints of water. 
Prepare an oxtail soup, mix the whole lot, add 
celery, leeks, parsley, all chopped finely, 
seasoning, and cook for five hours on a slow fire, 
stirring often ; about two hours before serving 
add a few slices of smoked sausage. Serve 
without passing through a sieve. 

POTAGE D'ORGE A L'ALLEMANDE 

Barley Soup 

Take about a quarter of a pound of barley and 
wash it well in tepid water ; cook it for six hours 
on a very slow fire, stirring occasionally with a 
fork to prevent its " catching," and adding more 
hot water if it reduces too much ; also add salt 
and pepper and, just before serving, a cupful ot 
fresh cream and a good piece of butter. From 
that moment it is important that the soup does 
not reach the boiling point, so that the butter 
keeps its proper taste and does not turn to oil. 
Pour it in a soup tureen previously heated, and 
add a last little piece of butter, which will have 
melted by the time the soup reaches the dining- 
room. The consistency should be that of an 
ordinary thick soup. 

GARBURE 

The garbure is the traditional soup of the 
South, and it appears day after day on the tables 
of the Beam and of the Landes district. It can 
be made in many different ways, according to 
the part of the country or the time of the year, 



30 A SECOND HELPING 

but it always contains certain principal in- 
gredients, which are : cabbage, beans or potatoes, 
and pork in some form or other. 

Cook the haricot beans in salt water (about 
half a pound to one large cabbage), having 
previously soaked them if they are not fresh ones, 
then add the cabbage cut in small pieces, a few 
carrots, and boil on a quick fire. About one 
hour before serving add either a tablespoonful 
of bacon fat or a piece of bacon or pickled pork, 
salt, pepper, a bouquet of parsley, thyme, and bay 
leaf (it should be removed with the meat before 
serving) : add more boiling water if necessary. 
You can put in peas instead of haricots if you 
like, or broad beans when in season, and turnips. 
In fact, the cabbage is the foundation of the 
garbure, the pork gives it a special flavour, and 
the beans or potatoes, which should be reduced 
to a pulp, give it the necessary consistency. 



EGG DISHES AND PILAFFS 31 



EGG DISHES AND PILAFFS 

(EUFS BROUILLES AU SAFRAN 

Scrambled Eggs with Saffron 

Beat the eggs well (two for each person), add 
about a puddingspoonful of milk, salt and pepper, 
and beat again. Mix in a pan a little butter, a 
teaspoonful of concentrated beefstock, a pinch 
of saffron, and cook it for a few minutes ; then 
put in the eggs, stirring all the time. They 
should be done on a slow fire so that they 
remain light and creamy, and, of course, served 
the moment they are ready. 

(EUFS FARCIS 

Stuffed Eggs 

Take some hard boiled eggs, remove the shells 
and cut the eggs lengthwise in half; take two 
fillets of anchovy for each egg and chop them 
very fine with the yolks. Melt a good piece of 
butter in a small saucepan, put in the mixture, 
add salt, pepper, a few chopped chives, and cook 
till the butter has entirely disappeared, then fill 
the eggs with this mixture, and serve hot with 
tomato sauce. 

(EUFS LANDAISE 

Grill or fry a pork sausage and chop it finely, 
also fry in the fat onion and parsley chopped 



$2 A SECOND HELPING 

finely ; put all this in a fireproof dish and break 
your eggs over it, add salt and pepper, a little 
grated cheese ; begin cooking on the fire, finish 
quickly in the oven. The right proportion is 
one medium-sized sausage to two eggs. In some 
places they also fry with the rest one small 
tomato cut in small pieces (the pips should be 
removed). 

(EUFS A LA TRIPE 

Have some hard-boiled eggs and cut them in 
slices. Chop some onions (about two onions for 
three eggs and so on), cook them in butter, but 
do not let them get brown. Then add a pinch 
of flour, a little hot milk, salt, pepper, and a 
little grated nutmeg. Let it boil for a few 
minutes, stirring well ; put in your eggs and, 
five minutes before serving, a piece of fresh 
butter and a tablespoonful of cream. The sauce 
should have the consistency of cream. 

CEUFS WASHINGTON 

In summer time, when tomatoes are plentiful 
and good, the following egg dish will be found 
excellent. The quantity is one egg and one 
tomato for each person. The tomato must be as 
large as possible and not quite ripe. Clean it 
well and cut off about one quarter. Scoop out 
the inside, carefully removing the pips, and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Into each of 
these " cases " break one egg, add salt and 
pepper, a small piece of butter, a little parsle}^ 
a few mushrooms finely chopped together, and 
a few drops of olive oil. Put the tomatoes 



EGG DISHES AND PILAFFS 33 

in a buttered, fireproof dish and bake in a slow 
oven for twenty minutes, basting frequently. 
When served, the yolks of the eggs should be 
soft. 

(EUFS A LA B£ARNAISE 

First fry in pork fat an onion finely chopped, 
and then add a few sliced tomatoes, and in 
another pan fry (also in pork fat) two or three 
green peppers cut in pieces, using the kind which 
are not too strong. When these are lightly 
browned add them with sufficient salt to the 
other pan, which should then simmer for about 
one hour, when the contents will be ready to 
be served with eggs fried in butter. 

(EUFS CHASSEUR 

Peel and cut one small onion into thin slices 
and fry in butter until golden brown. Then cut 
one rasher of lean bacon into shreds and fry with 
the onion until it is quite crisp. Meanwhile boil 
two chickens' livers in equal parts of water and 
wine vinegar, adding a clove, one bay leaf, and 
some parsley. When the liver is cooked remove 
it, and pound together with the onions and bacon. 
Add salt and pepper. Cook one egg for each 
person en cocotte and cover with the above 
mixture. These eggs should also be served 
extremely hot. 

(EUFS EN ASPIC 

For each person use one egg, and first poach 
the eggs so that while the yolks must be soft the 
whites must be quite firm and set. 



34 A SECOND HELPING 

Place these in a fairly shallow serving dish, 
just deep enough to allow the eggs to be covered 
with the jelly. Season the eggs with salt and 
a little lemon juice. Then pour over the jelly, 
which has been flavoured with six tomatoes and 
passed through a fine strainer. The jelly must, 
of course, be made of calf s foot and bones, and 
not gelatine. Place the dish in a cool place to 
allow the jelly to set, and serve cold. 

CURRIED EGGS 

Take half a pound of onions, half a pound of 
tomatoes, one carrot, and two apples. Prepare 
these and cut into small pieces. Fry the onions 
first in butter until lightly brown. Add the other 
vegetables, putting some bacon fat into the pan. 
When these are nearly cooked put in one or two 
tablespoonfuls of curry powder according to 
taste, adding sufficient salt and two tablespoonfuls 
of brown sugar. Fry for another half-hour, 
adding more fat or butter if necessary. 

Just before pouring over the eggs which should, 
of course, be hard boiled first, add sufficient milk 
to the curry to reduce it to the consistency of a 
thick sauce. 

RISOTTO MILANESE 

There is no doubt about it, the revival of 
interest in food and cookery is spreading in all 
directions ; it is now the turn of Italy, and I see 
that no less a person than Alfredo Panzini, the 
author of Viaggio di un Povero Letterato and of 
the Lanterna di Diogene has been writing on the 
subject in Galleria, the monthly review edited by 



EGG DISHES AND PILAFFS 35 

Soffici, of the Fascist daily paper, Corriere Italiano. 
The article I have by me, entitled " Risotto e 
risotti," is an amusing disquisition on this famous 
Italian dish, not only as a dish, but as an im- 
portant ethnical symbol, so that the culinary 
details are curiously mixed up with unexpected 
remarks and digressions. But the recipe is 
there, if somewhat diluted, complete in its native 
splendour, as a recipe — besides what it stands 
for. 

The dominating colour is, of course, the rich 
deep yellow of saffron, for saffron is, so to 
speak, the crest of a risotto, which is for Lom- 
bardy what the macaroni is for Naples ; needless 
to say, other provinces boast of their rice dishes, 
in which there may be meat, or chicken, or fish, 
but the real article is the one Panzini describes, 
the risotti simple and proud in its "viscous 
compactness." 

" First take some onions, cut them in thin slices 
and fry them in the best butter till they are, not 
coal-black, but golden brown. Put into the 
frying pan a pound of rice. Do not wash it ; 
wash your hands, wash your face, wash your 
conscience, but do not wash the rice. The rice 
is no snob. Stir it over a slow fire and roast it 
well ; add a little wine and tomato puree, then 
about an ounce of marrow chopped fine. The 
secret of the real risotto is that the grain of rice 
preserves its soundness, its "entireness," although 
the dish as a whole is like a cream. Chopped 
marrow helps a lot there (in the days of Maria 
Teresa they sometimes used to put in pounded 
brains for the same effect) ; then make the whole 
thing a beautiful yellow with a tablespoonful 



36 A SECOND HELPING 

of saffron. To prevent the rice from burning 
add good stock in such quantity that it is entirely 
absorbed by the end of the cooking; then 
sprinkle with cheese. The risotto can be made 
more opulent with mushrooms and truffles." 

Such is Panzini's recipe, the result being a 
dish very different from the soft, sloppy rice one 
gets, alas, too often. 

PILAFF 

This pilaff, which comes from another part of 
the world, is also a very pleasant way of serving 
rice. Cook your rice according to your idea on 
the subject ; there are several schools — some 
people throw it in boiling water, some put it in 
cold water, some stir it, others do not. After 
many experiments I find that the most satisfactory 
way is the following : Having, snobbishl}^ washed 
the rice, put it in a saucepan with one onion, cut 
in two, salt and just enough cold water to cover 
it and a little more, bring to the boil, stir lightly 
with a fork, add more water ; a little later add 
for the third and last time more water in quantity 
sufficient for the rice to revolve freely when 
boiling ; see that it does not catch, and do not 
cook it too much. When it is cooked, of course, 
put it under the cold tap in a colander ; each 
grain should be separate. 

Melt some butter in a frying pan, put in your 
rice, salt and pepper, a teaspoonful of saffron, a 
pinch of curry powder, one sweet red pepper cut 
in small pieces, a handful of raisins (stoned and 
previousl}^ soaked) and whatever j'ou have by 
you in the way of" remnants " — pieces of turbot, 



EGG DISHES AND PILAFFS 37 

or lobster, or chicken, slightly warmed in butter. 
Stir well and serve very hot with the sauce 
called in France a Pindienne, although it is only 
vaguely Eastern in character. For all these 
pilaffs and risottos the best rice to use is really 
Carolina rice, the Patna variety being the best 
for the rice served as an accompaniment to curry. 

SAUCE A L'INDIENNE FOR PILAFFS 

Put in a small saucepan a tablespoonful of 
flour, a piece of butter the size of an t%^ and 
cook this over a slow fire, stirring all the time 
with a wooden spoon. When it is well melted 
and cooked (it must not get brown though) put 
in a teaspoonful of saffron, a pinch of curry 
powder, stir well again and cook a little more ; 
then add little by little a tumblerful of milk, salt, 
pepper and a little grated nutmeg, and cook, 
stirring often over a slow fire till it has the 
proper consistency, which is that of cream. It 
it is too thick add some more milk, and it 
necessary more seasoning ; the quantity of 
saffron is rather a question of taste, but in any 
case the flavour of curry powder should not be 
recognisable (it is the happy blending of spices 
which makes the sauce perfect) ; needless to say, 
it should be absolutely smooth, so if you are in 
doubt about it and if it looks in the least lumpy, 
it is better to pass it through a fine sieve ; a 
little piece of butter added at the last minute 
makes it more creamy still. 



38 A SECOND HELPING 



FISH 

TURBOT AU FOUR 

Baked Turbot 

Take a good sized turbot, clean it, and boil it 
in salted water until cooked. Remove the flesh 
from the bones and mince it finely, adding salt 
and pepper, the juice of a lemon, and some 
crushed nasturtium seeds, which may be ob- 
tained in bottles. Mix all this together with a 
little cream and place the mixture in a buttered 
fireproof dish, or, if you prefer it, in one little 
dish for each person. Sprinkle with bread- 
crumbs and bake in a quick oven until brown. 

TURBOT EN ASPIC 

Cook 3'^our turbot in a well-seasoned court- 
bouillon and let it get cold. Then remove it, 
drain it well and cut it in pieces of equal size 
(taking care to remove bones and skin). Put 
this in a dish and dispose on and around the fish 
a few capers, or slices of truffles, mushrooms or 
gherkins. 

Return the court-bouillon in which the turbot 
has been cooked and the head and bones of the 
fish to the fire, and boil it fast for about twenty- 
five minutes. Pass it through a fine sieve and a 
muslin; add a flavouring of either port, cham- 



FISH 



39 



pagne or hock when the liquid is only tepid, 
and pour it over the pieces of fish. Having 
previously tested the consistency of the jelly (by 
dropping a little on a cold plate where it ought 
to jellify after a few seconds), add a little gelatine 
if necessary, but the jelly should not be too stiff; 
needless to say, whatever wine you use for 
flavouring must be of the best quality. 

Salmon or salmon trout can be treated in the 
same way, and in that case claret can be used in 
the court-bouillon^ in the proportion of about half 
a bottle for a dish for six or eight people. 

COQUILLES ST. JACQUES 
Scallops 

This recipe, as well as the Filets de sole Regence, 
come from the famous Restaurant du Chapon Fin 
at Bordeaux. It is a delicious dish, and by far 
the best way of serving a shell fish already 
delicious, and which, judging from the prices it 
fetches at fishmongers, as compared with those 
of crab and lobster, seems unfairly despised in 
England. 

Wash the scallops well, boil them in salted 
water and chop the red part and the white part 
together with a tomato, a little onion, parsley, a 
few mushrooms, salt and pepper. Cook this for 
a few minutes in butter, bind it with a little 
Bechamel sauce, fill the shells with the mixture 
and brown in the oven. 

SOLE NORMANDE 
Take a fine sole, skin it and put in a fireproof 
dish with several pieces of butter, salt, pepper, 



40 A SECOND HELPING 

a little grated nutmeg and a glassful of good 
white wine. Bake it in a moderate oven for 
about half an hour, basting occasionally, then 
remove it and keep it warm while the sauce is 
being made. For this you want a few prawns 
(shelled), a dozen or so of mussels already 
cooked (which means simply boiling them for a 
few minutes in salt water with a bouquet, when 
they open and you can easily remove them from 
the shells), and the stock in which the mussels 
have been cooked. 

Put in a small saucepan all the gravy from the 
sole, two spoonsful of the mussel stock, the 
mussels and the prawns, cook it for a few 
minutes, bind it with butter in which you have 
cooked a little flour, cook a little more, add a 
small quantity of cream, pour the sauce over 
your sole and serve very hot. 

SOLE EN MATELOTTE 
This dish, although it has not the reputation 
of the sole normande, is a very favourite dish 
both in Brittany and Normandy. Skin the sole, 
put it in a fireproof dish, cover the sole with a 
mixture in equal parts of water and dry cider, 
salt, pepper, and a bouquet. Cook about twenty- 
five minutes, then put the gravy in a small 
saucepan, remove the bouquet^ bind as described 
above, pour it over the fish and sprinkle over it 
very fine brown breadcrumbs and serve at once. 

SOLE BRETONNE 
Skin the sole, remove the fins and slice it the 
whole length in the middle ; lift the fillets and 



FISH 41 

insert little pieces of salt butter worked with a 
little parsley and lemon juice. Cook it in butter 
in a frying pan, turning it once ; add before 
serving more salt, pepper and a little more 
lemon. This way of cooking a sole is very 
simple and delicious, being a little more than 
a fried one and a little less than a sole meuniere. 



SOLE COLBERT 

Choose a fine sole ; when cleaned, slice it in 
the middle lengthways on both sides and lift 
slightly the fillets ; also break the bone at both 
ends. Sprinkle it with a little flour, and dip it 
in an egg beaten with breadcrumbs. Fry it in 
very hot fat. When cooked and well drained, 
carefully remove the bone without breaking the 
fish, and fill the inside with some butter which 
you have "worked" with chopped parsley and 
lemon juice. 

FILETS DE SOLE D0R0TH£E 

The sole having been filleted, put in a small 
saucepan the head and bones, one onion in 
slices, one carrot, thyme, bay leaf, clove, salt 
and pepper, a glass of water and a glass of dry 
white wine, bring to boil, and reduce it on a 
slow fire for about twenty minutes. Pass it 
through a muslin and keep it warm. Sprinkle 
the fillets with salt and paprika and cook them 
in butter, then flambez them with a little good 
brandy ; mix together this butter and brandy 
and the sauce previously prepared, add small 
mushrooms, a glass of fresh cream, a little lemon 
juice, and pour it very hot over the fillets. It is 



42 A SECOND HELPING 

advisable for this dish, as for all dishes which 
are flambes, to use really good brandy, and not 
the kind generally sold as cooking brand}'^, which 
is useless for the purpose, having no strength 
and no flavour. 



FILETS DE SOLE R£GENCE. 

Take two fine soles and fillet them, roll each 
fillet, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cook 
them in a closed earthenware dish with a piece 
of butter the size of a walnut and a little dry 
white wine for about a quarter of an hour. 

Take about eighteen or twenty ecrevisses (or 
crayfish) and cook them in a saucepan also for 
a quarter of an hour with butter, salt, pepper, 
spices, half a glass of white wine and a liqueur 
glass of good brandy. 

Mix together both sauces in a small saucepan, 
let the mixture reduce, then bind it with four 
yolks of egg, add about a quarter of a pound 
of butter, so as to have enough sauce to pour 
over the fillets of sole and the ecrevisses. These 
should be arranged alternately in a circle, with 
a slice of truffle over each fillet. Put in the 
middle the tails (carefully removed from the 
shell) of the remaining ecrevisse and a few 
quenelles of fish. The sauce should be well 
seasoned. 

The quenelles should be prepared in the 
following manner: (i) Take some stale bread- 
crumb and soak it in milk, after which you 
reduce it to a pulp and " bind " it with the yolk 
of an tgg. (2) Add the same quantity of raw 
fish, carefully boned and skinned (pike is the 



FISH 43 

best, but whiting or cod will do as well), salt it 
and pound it all together for a few minutes; 
add, one by one, three more yolks of eggs, salt 
and pepper and mix well, then about half the 
quantity of fresh butter previously worked to a 
cream. All this should be thoroughly mixed 
and very smooth, and the consistency that of 
pastry batter. Sprinkle flour on a board, flatten 
the paste and cut it in regular pieces about three 
inches long and half an inch thick. Throw these 
in a saucepan full of boiling water, and cook 
them for ten minutes or so, when they are 
swollen and ready to use as garniture for the 
above dish. 

POISSON FARCI AU VIN BLANC 
Stuffed Fresh Water Fish with White Wine 

Take a good-sized carp, or a pike, and remove 
the head ; wash the fish and clean it and wipe 
the inside. Sprinkle it with salt and pepper, 
both inside and outside, and leave it in a cloth 
till the following day. 

Prepare the stuffing as follows : Streaky bacon 
and ham, a little cold roast veal, a small slice of 
stale bread, parsley, two shallots, salt and 
pepper, all passed through a sieve or a mincing 
machine ; add a drop of white wine and stuff the 
fish with this mixture. 

Put the fish in a fireproof dish, cover it with 
white wine and cook it in the oven. When it is 
about half cooked, sprinkle over it some of the 
stuffing and a few bread crumbs, and finish 
cooking, being careful to regulate the heat so 
that the wine sauce does not evaporate altogether. 



44 A SECOND HELPING 

HUITRES FRITES 

Fried Oysters 

Have some fine oysters carefully removed from 
the shells, dipped in milk and rolled in flour, and 
fry them in very hot fat. When they are a 
golden colour they are ready ; drain them well, 
sprinkle with salt and serve at once. 

HUITRES AU GRATIN 

Put in a small saucepan two shallots finely 
chopped and fry them slightly in butter ; then 
add parsley, two or three mushrooms chopped 
together very fine, bread-crumbs, salt and pepper, 
a little dry white wine, a small piece of fresh 
butter, and boil this for a few minutes. It should 
be rather thick. Open some large oysters, leave 
them in the hollow shell, and cover each of them 
with the above stuffing, sprinkle with bread- 
crumbs, add in each a little melted butter, and 
brown them in a moderate oven. 

HOMARD A LA CREME 

Lobster 

Have some slices of cooked lobster (properly 
cooked in a couri-bouillon)^ pour brandy over 
them and set it alight. Cook them in butter for 
a few minutes, add salt, pepper and paprika. 
Beat together the yolks of two eggs, a little cream 
and a " drop " of sherry or Madeira. Mix it well 
with the lobster and cook on a slow fire till the 
sauce thickens. Do not let it boil or it will 
curdle. 



FISH 45 

RAIE AUX CAPRES 

Skate with Caper Sauce 

Although skate is a fish which is rather 
despised and not much used in England (which 
seems a pity as it is cheap) it is very good when 
properly cooked. The following is a change 
from the classical beurre noir sauce. Get a piece 
of the skate with some of the liver, wash it well 
and put it in a saucepan with cold water. Add 
a pinch of salt, an onion cut in two, with a clove 
in each half, parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, and half a 
glass of vinegar. Bring this to the boil and cook 
it a few minutes, then add the liver and keep 
boiling for about another quarter of an hour. 
Take out the fish and liver, remove the skin, 
drain well, and serve with a caper sauce poured 
over. 

PETITS PATES AUX CREVETTES 

Prawn Patties 

Put the prawns in salted boiling w^ater and 
cook for a few minutes, then remove them and 
allow them to cool, when you must remove the 
shells and " beard." Place them in a dish to 
soak in about a wineglassful of sherry and a little 
lemon juice. Then make a light flaky pastry and 
line the little pate dishes with it. Into each of 
these put two or three prawns and a few slices 
of olive. Add a teaspoonful of the liquid in 
which the prawns have been soaking, together 
with a teaspoonful of the anchovy sauce described 
below. Then cover with a very thin piece of 
pastry cut to the right shape. Bake in a rather 



46 A SECOND HELPING 

quick oven until the pastry is cooked and nicely 
brown. These pates may be served either hot 
or cold. 

For the sauce aux anchois, take about three 
filleted anchovies and let cold water run over 
them for a few minutes. Dry them well and 
pound them to a pulp. Melt a good piece of 
butter in a small saucepan, stir in a little flour, 
cook for two minutes and add the anchovy, 
stirring well ; add milk or thin cream to bring 
it to the consistency of a thick sauce. 

ROUGETS NANTAISE 

Red Mullets 

Take some red mullets, once cleaned put them 
in a fireproof dish (having made a few cuts 
across both sides) with a little butter and cook 
them in the oven for about twenty minutes. Just 
before serving pour over them a sauce made as 
follows : put in a small saucepan two or three 
shallots chopped very fine, two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, two livers from the mullet, salt and 
pepper; bring to the boil and cook about ten 
minutes, after which you add a good piece of 
butter and cook a few seconds more. The 
mullets should weigh under half a pound each, 
and you must allow one for each person. 

HARENGS MARINES 

Marinade of Herrings 

Take twelve good herrings, clean them, open 
them, and cook them in the following way : 
Put three quarters of a pint of water with the 



FISH 47 

same quantity of dry white wine in a large flat 
casserole, adding half a pint of wine vinegar, a 
large onion, one or two carrots cut in slices, a 
little thyme and parsley, one bay leaf and coarsely 
ground black pepper. Cook all this for a quarter 
of an hour, put in your herrings, let them boil 
for about ten minutes, and get cold in the stock 
in which they have been cooked, removing them 
only just before serving. 

HARENGS GRILLES 

Grilled Herrings 

Take some fresh herrings, clean them well 
and paint them with olive oil or butter. Grill 
them for fifteen minutes and serve them with a 
sauce made of melted butter, a little vinegar, 
salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful of French mustard. 

You can also serve them with a more elaborate 
and thicker mustard sauce. ^ 

CABILLAUD A LA BRETONNE 

Cod 
Take a nice piece of cod (about two and a half 
pounds for six people), remove the skin and 
bones, and cut it into conveniently-sized pieces. 
Put them in a casserole with two tablespoonsfuls 
of olive oil and a pint of dry cider. Then work 
a piece of butter with flour and the following 
finely chopped : parsley, shallots, and a few 
mushrooms. Add this, together with salt and 
pepper, to the fish, and cook it on a quick fire 
until the fish is cooked and there is just enough 
of the sauce left to serve with it. 

I. See chapter on "Sauces" in "Simple French Cooking for 
English homes.'" 



48 A SECOND HELPING 

CABILLAUD FARCI 

Stuffed Cod 

Take about two pounds of the best part of a 
cod and clean it carefully, after which stuff it 
with the following mixture : A large handful of 
parsley, three onions chopped ver}- fine, two 
thin slices of bacon, fried and chopped. Mix 
these together with two raw eggs, then add 
sufficient breadcrumbs from stale bread to make 
the mixture of a firm consistency and stuff the 
fish. Bake in butter and bacon fat for about 
one hour and a quarter, basting occasionally. 

KARI DE CABILLAUD 
Curried Cod 
Put a piece of cod — ^just over one pound is 
sufficient for four people — into boiling salted 
water and cook for half an hour, when the cod 
should be removed, and after it is cold the bones 
must be taken out and the fish broken into little 
pieces. Meanwhile fry a few onions and some 
sliced carrots in bacon fat, and when the}'^ are 
nicely browned add two tablespoonfuls of Madras 
curry powder, salt, a little sugar, and a spoonful 
of sweet preserve. Mix all this well together 
and add a little milk, stirring hard. Cook for 
twenty minutes and then put in the cod. Cook 
again for about ten minutes, and serve with rice. 

MORUE AUX (EUFS 
Salt Cod 
Take about one pound and a half of salt cod 
and soak it in cold water for twelve hours, 



FISH 49 

changing the water two or three times. Put the 
fish in a saucepan with cold water, and boil it 
gently until cooked, when it should be removed, 
but kept hot. Then beat six eggs and put them 
in a frying pan, in which you have melted a good 
piece of butter. Cook them very slowly, stirring 
constantly so that the eggs do not "catch." 
Add the fish broken into little pieces, some more 
butter, the juice of half a lemon, pepper and 
some salt if neccessary. Stir lightly with a fork 
and serve immediately. If this dish is kept 
waiting the eggs will become leathery. 

BRANDADE DE MORUE 

Take some salt cod, wash it well in several 
waters and soak it for about twelve hours. 
Put it in a saucepan with cold water, bring 
it to the boil, cook it, and leave it about a 
quarter of an hour in the water in which it has 
cooked. Then drain it well, remove the bones 
and break the flesh in small pieces, pound them 
in a mortar. Put in a saucepan about two table- 
spoonfuls of good olive oil, add the pounded cod 
and cook it, stirring constantly with a wooden 
spoon. When it has boiled and started thicken- 
ing add alternately a little of the stock and a 
little olive oil, still stirring well, and about 
twenty minutes before serving, chopped parsley 
and pepper. Needless to say, chopped garlic is 
always added at the same time by the Southern 
French people, and it certainly gives the finishing 
touch to the brandade. 



50 A SECOND HELPING 



MEAT DISHES 

ROASTING GAME 

There are many pleasant ways of cooking 
game, and there is no reason why it should 
always be served roasted and with bread sauce. 
About roasting there are several things which are 
very important. A bird should be salted inside 
before roasting; it makes the whole difference 
to the taste of the meat ; also it should be 
wrapped up in very thin, fat bacon, and fre- 
quently basted. When it is served, in a carefull}' 
warmed dish, the gravy should be poured over 
it, and no stock of any kind added to this gravy, 
which must keep its own specific taste. The 
only way to make gravy, if necessary, is to pour 
a little salted hot water in the baking pan and 
scrape well the sides on which the essential and 
succulent juices of the meat have solidified. 



SALMIS DE PERDREAUX 
Salmis of Partridge 

Prepare the partridges as for roasting, and 
cook them, ten minutes only, in a hot oven. 
Carve them into five or six pieces, legs, wings, 
and breast, and put these in a casserole or in a 
saucepan. 



MEAT DISHES 51 

Chop the carcase, necks, livers, etc., put them 
in a small saucepan with a few chopped shallots, 
parsley, salt, pepper, a tablespoonful of good 
stock, a teaspoonful of tomato puree, a portglass- 
full of claret ; add the gravy from the roasted 
birds, cook it till reduced at least by half, pass 
through a fine sieve, skim off the fat, and pour 
the sauce obtained over the pieces of partridge 
with a few small mushrooms, a glass of Madeira, 
and let it simmer on a slow fire till well cooked 
in the casserole with the lid on. Serve with fried 
bread round the dish. 



SALMIS DE GIBIER 

Salmis of Game 

For this dish (which dates from the end of the 
eighteenth century, and which is called sahni de 
table a lesprit de vin, not because there was 
methylated spirit in the sauce, but because it was 
then done on the dining-room table over a spirit 
lamp) you want some roast game, either partridge 
or pheasant or grouse. Cut the bird in four 
parts, and prepare in the following manner : first 
brown one shallot or onion finely chopped in 
butter, then add the squeezed juice of a lemon, a 
glass of dry white wine, salt and pepper, and 
then the legs and wings of the bird. Cook till 
the meat is hot, by which time the sauce will 
have reduced to its proper consistency. It 
should be done on a moderate fire and with the 
lid on. You can, if you like, add bread crumbs 
over it, and put it one minute under the grill. 
It has a pleasant, sharp taste. 



52 A SECOND HELPING 

PERDRIX EN COCOTTE 
Braised Partridge 

Take one old partridge (or two according to 
number of people) ; when trussed singe it and 
fill the inside with good sausage meat (pork, 
streaky bacon and veal, highly seasoned). Sew 
the opening and tie over the bird a rasher of 
bacon. 

Put in a fireproof dish a layer of carrots, onions 
cut in small pieces, bits of bacon, any small 
bones you may have by you, and cook for twenty 
minutes or so. Remove it from the fire, and add 
a tablespoonful of good stock — and the partridge. 
Cook about one hour with the lid on. 

Meanwhile cook in butter a few small round 
onions and bacon cut in small cubes. This 
should be timed with the cooking of the bird so 
that both are ready at the same time. 

Remove the partridge, pass through a sieve 
the vegetables, bacon, etc., in which it has cooked, 
clean the fireproof dish, and put back into it the 
partridge; to which you add the gravy obtained, 
also the small onions and cubes of bacon previ- 
ously prepared. Let the whole thing simmer a 
little longer. 

PERDREAUX POELES 

Take some partridges (two for four people), 
singe them well, and fill them with the following 
mixture : two ounces of butter well worked with 
salt, pepper, and the juice of a lemon ; wrap them 
with slices of thin fat bacon tied round with fine 
string. Put some rashers of bacon, a few carrots, 
and one onion cut in slices in a deep fireproof 



MEAT DISHES 53 

dish ; the partridges over this ; over them slices 
of lemon and more bacon, and cook a good half- 
an-hour. Then remove the birds from the 
casserole and the string from the birds ; keep 
them hot. 

Squeeze through a sieve the bacon, lemon, 
vegetables, etc., over which the birds have been 
cooked, add a piece of butter, a glass of white 
wine, a pinch of flour ; cook a few minutes more ; 
put back the partridges in the casserole, and serve 
a few minutes later. See that the gravy is salty 
enough and pleasurably spicy. Should you have 
some bones of any game left over, you can make 
a sauce, and add it to the gravy in the casserole. 
Put the bones in a small saucepan with a few 
slices of carrots, two shallots finely chopped and 
one clove ; add some beef stock, bring to the boil, 
and cook on a slow fire till well reduced. Pour 
it over the birds through a sieve. 

FILETS DE PERDREAUX AUX 
BIGARADES 

Roast your partridge in the ordinary way (not 
forgetting to sprinkle the inside of the bird with 
salt, and to roast it between two rashers of fat 
bacon). Do not joint the bird, but carve away 
slices of the meat as you would do for a duck, 
and keep them hot. 

Make a white roux (about a pudding-spoonful 
of flour cooked in butter, to which you add a 
little veal or beef stock) ; add to it the broken 
bones of the partridge, salt, coarsely broken 
pepper, half a glass of dry white wine, the gravy 
from the roasted partridge, a little of the rind 



54 A SECOND HELPING 

(peeled off very thin) of an orange, and one bay- 
leaf Bring to the boil, let it reduce, pass through 
a sieve and skim off the fat. 

Fry some croutons; dispose your fillets of 
partridge on them, put them in a dish and cover 
them with your sauce, to which you have added 
a few minutes before the squeezed juice of an 
orange. 

FAISAN AU FOIE GRAS. 
Stuffed Pheasant au Foie Grab. 

Take a pheasant, truss it and singe it. Peel 
three or four truffles, cut them in small pieces, 
also cut three or four chicken livers ; put these 
in a small saucepan with a wineglassful of 
Madeira, salt and pepper ; boil the mixture for 
five minutes, then put it inside the pheasant, sew 
the opening, tie round it some very thin fat 
bacon and roast it, basting often. 

Fry in butter a slice of stale bread, slightly 
larger than your bird, and cover it with a thick 
layer oi pate de foie gras. When the pheasant is 
cooked; put it on the bed oi foie gras, and keep it 
hot. 

Skim off the fat from the gravy obtained in 
roasting the pheasant, pass it through a sieve, 
and put it in a small saucepan with one truffle 
finely chopped, a " drop " of Madeira (and, if a 
little short, some stock), boil two or three minutes, 
pour it over the pheasant, and serve very hot. 

Ll£VRE MARINE ROTI. 
Roast Hare. 
Put the hare (remove the legs if you like) to 
soak for three days in a marinade, prepared as 



MEAT DISHES 55 

follows : cut onions and carrots in thin slices, add 
salt, coarsely broken pepper, parsley, thyme, 
bay-leaf, a little garlic, a pint of water, two pints 
of wine vinegar. Then drain the hare well, warm 
it over the fire for a few minutes, insert with a 
larding-needle very thin pieces of streaky bacon, 
and roast in the ordinary way, basting often. 
Serve with either a sauce bordelaise or a sauce 
flamande. 

Sauce Bordelaise. 

Boil a pint of wine vinegar with three heads 
of garlic. When the garlic is cooked (in which 
case you can remove it if you are afraid of too 
strong a flavour) and the vinegar well reduced, 
add the hare's liver, boil it till soft, then mash it 
and add the blood, stirring all the time over the 
fire. Pass through a fine sieve and add to it the 
gravy from the roasted hare. 

Sauce Flamande. 

Melt some butter in a saucepan and put in four 
onions finely chopped, two cloves, a little nutmeg, 
a bay leaf, the liver, the heart and the blood from 
the hare. Add about a pint and a half of wine 
vinegar and water mixed in equal parts ; boil it 
very slowly for five hours, then pass through a 
sieve, add to it a tumblerful of good claret, a 
pinch of sugar ; bring to the boil again, and add 
a little potato flour. Cook a few minutes more. 

CIVET DE LIEVRE. I 

Jugged Hare 

Cut the hare in smallish pieces and fry them a 
few minutes in a saucepan. Put in another 



56 A SECOND HELPING 

saucepan a hac/ns m3.de with shallots, parsley and 
streaky bacon, cook a few minutes, then add a 
little flour, a tablespoonful of good stock, salt and 
pepper, a little grated nutmeg and a tumblerful of 
claret. Add the hare, stir well, and let it simmer 
with lid on at least three hours. Halfway through 
add the liver and the lungs of the hare, finely 
chopped, and a few minutes before serving add a 
few button mushrooms and a drop of brandy. 

CIVET DE Ll£VRE. II 
When preparing the hare keep all the blood, to 
which you add a little claret or vinegar so that it 
does not coagulate. Cut the hare in smallish 
pieces. 

Put in a saucepan some butter, a few small 
onions, and a rasher of streaky bacon cut in small 
pieces. When well browned remove onions and 
bacon, and use the same butter to fry the pieces 
of hare ; they should be fried for a few minutes 
only, after which 3'^ou add a little flour, salt and 
pepper, parsley, and a tumblerful of claret and 
stock mixed in equal parts. Add also the onions 
and bacon previously fried, also the pieces of 
hare, then the blood. Stir it well, put the lid on, 
and let it simmer for at least two hours and a 
half. Remove parsley before serving. 

The hare, to be good, should not weigh more 
than about six pounds, as the flesh of bigger 
hares is liable to be tough. 

TERRINE DE GIBIER 
Galantine of Game 
Take whatever game you have, either 
partridge, pheasant or hare, and carve nice fillets 



MEAT DISHES 57 

out of it ; also cut in thin slices some lean veal 
and pork, the proportions to be two of game to 
one of butcher's meat. On the other hand, 
prepare some mincemeat as follows : small pieces 
of game, streaky bacon, a few truffles, parsley, a 
little stale bread, onions and shallots, finely 
chopped. Rub through a fine seive, add salt and 
a good deal of pepper and, if you like, the yolk 
of one egg. 

Take a terrhte, grease it with pork fat, and 
dispose in it a layer of game and meat, then a 
layer of minced meat, and so on till full. 

Put in a small saucepan full of water the bones 
from the partridge or pheasant, one onion, and 
one carrot cut in slices, parsley, thyme, bacon 
rind, salt and pepper, also a calfs foot. Bring to 
the boil and let it simmer till well reduced, then 
pass through a sieve and keep it warm. 

Put your terrine into a double boiler and bake 
in a moderate oven for about two hours. When 
cooked, remove it and pour over it the gravy 
obtained by the boiling described above, which 
will eventually become a delicious jelly. Put a 
weight over the pate and keep it in a cool place 
for twelve hours. It will keep for weeks if you 
pour over it melted pork fat, after which you put 
on a piece of greased paper and the terrine lid. 

FAISAN A LA CHOUCROUTE 

The pheasant should be roasted in the ordinary 
way. Take about two pounds of sauerkraut, 
wash it and drain it well and put it in a casserole 
with half a dozen pieces of bacon, a dozen 
juniper berries (crushed) an onion, a clove, a 



58 A SECOND HELPING 

bouquet, a few slices of saitcisson or salami (without 
garlic), salt and coarsely broken pepper, a good 
piece of fat unsmoked bacon and two glasses of 
white wine. Cover the pot, cook about four 
hours in the oven, after which you remove from 
the pot the choucroiite (well drained), and the piece 
of bacon. Put them in a serving dish and dispose 
on this bed the pheasant surrounded by a few 
grilled sausages (the thin kind made of pork), 
the gravy from the bird being poured over the 
lot. In some parts of Belgium the pheasant is 
only partly roasted at first and put in the pot ot 
choucroute till ready ; a cream sauce is sometimes 
served with it. 

PURE£ DE LAPEREAU 
Pur£e of Rabbit 
A very good dish can be made with young 
rabbit. Bone it, and pound the flesh in a mortar, 
pass this through a fine sieve, add salt, pepper, 
a little nutmeg, a teaspoonful of tomato sauce, a 
little good stock, and boil it for a little while to 
the consistency of thick cream. Serve with fried 
croutons. 

RABBIT PIE 

The flesh of a rabbit is considered with a 
certain amount of suspicton, and one rarely finds 
it on polite dinner-tables. This prejudice is a 
very misguided one, for nothing can be more 
delicious than a good rabbit pie, either hot or 
cold. Choose two young rabbits, and if possible 
have them sent to you from Dartmoor. 

When the rabbits are skinned and cleaned, 
joint and bone them, put the pieces in a dish of 



MEAT DISHES 59 

cold water, leaving them to soak for about one 
hour. Then put them in a saucepan, and cover 
with cold water, adding salt and pepper, two 
onions, and a little sage. Bring to the boil, and 
keep boiling gently for about twenty minutes. 

Remove the pieces of rabbit and place in the 
pie-dish with chopped parsley, a few pieces of 
cooked bacon, and slices of hard-boiled eggs. 
Put in also about a dozen stuffed prunes, for the 
preparation of which see below, and mix all 
together, so that the contents of the pie are 
evenly distributed, adding a little salt and pepper. 
Pour in half a pint of good stock, and cover with 
the paste for the pie crust. 

Bake in a fairly quick oven until the pastry is 
cooked and nicely brown. 

STUFFED PRUNES 
The prunes must soak in water for two days, 
and then be thoroughly dried by folding them in 
a cloth. When this is done make a cut in each 
prune with a very sharp knife and remove the 
stones. Then prepare the following stuffing, 
the quantities, of course, depending on the 
number of prunes to be stuffed. 

Chop together some parsley and half an onion, 
and then add some fat bacon or pork finely 
minced. Add salt and pepper, and just sufficient 
breadcrumbs to bind the mixture, which is then 
ready for stuffing the prunes. 

OIE FARCIE 

Stuffed Goose 
It is well to remember that the time required 
for cooking a goose depends largely on the 



6o A SECOND HELPING 

stuffing ; a goose stuffed in the following manner 
should cook twenty-five minutes for every pound. 
The prunes used for the stuffing should, of 
course, have been soaked in cold water for two 
days previously. 

Take half a pound of lean pork and boil it in 
salted water until nearly cooked, after which it 
must be finely minced. Then fry in butter two 
or three chopped onions and add them to the 
pork. Season with salt and pepper and mix well, 
using the yolk of an egg to " bind " the stuffing 
together. Then take about twelve or fifteen 
prunes, slit them with the point of a sharp knife, 
remove the stones, and stuff them with some of 
the mixture to which a few chopped olives and 
roasted chestnuts have been added. Distribute 
the prunes among the stuffing, which is then 
ready. The bird should be stuffed at least a day 
before it is to be cooked. Spread plenty of pork 
fat over the goose with a knife and tie round it 
a paper greased with more fat. Baste frequently. 

POULET POEL£ PAILLARD 
Put in a saucepan one onion and one carrot 
cut in slices, a bouquet (of parsley, thyme, bayleaf), 
seasoning, a little butter and a young chicken, 
cook a few minutes on a moderate fire, then add 
a good glass of champagne, cook for about 
thirty to forty minutes, according to size. Then 
put the chicken in a cocotte, and add to the gravy 
in the saucepan a pint of cream. When thoroughly 
hot and well mixed pass the sauce through a 
muslin and pour it over the chicken in the cocotte. 
See that it is properly seasoned and serve with 
a pilaff of rice. 



MEAT DISHES 6i 

POULET SAUTE A LA CREME 
Joint a young chicken and put it in a casserole 
with about one ounce of butter, two small onions, 
thyme and a bay leaf. Salt and cook, with the 
lid on, on a moderate fire. When the chicken is 
nearly done, remove thyme, bay leaf and onions, 
add a pinch of flour and cook another ten minutes, 
stirring often. Then add one tablespoonful ot 
water, three of dry white wine, let it simmer and 
add little by little about one shillings's worth of 
cream ; cook again for about twenty minutes on 
a very slow fire, sprinkle with freshly ground 
pepper and serve. The addition of either small 
mushrooms or fonds d' artichauts is recommended, 
but not necessary. 

POULET LYONNAISE 
Take a plump young chicken, joint it and place 
the joints in a casserole in which you have melted 
plenty of butter. Cook on a quick fire, turning 
the joints often. Then add a quarter of a pound 
of mushrooms and a tomato cut in little pieces. 
Cook for a few minutes more and add a glass 
of dry white wine, a little beef juice, and a few 
drops of old brandy, season with salt and pepper, 
and cook for twenty minutes. Remove the pieces 
of chicken and keep them hot ; add to the sauce 
some chopped parsley, and if you like it, a tiny 
piece of finely chopped garlic, and let it reduce 
a little. Pour the sauce over the chicken and 
serve very hot. 

POULET AU BLANC 
Take a young chicken, joint it and put it in 
hot water with a bouquet, one carrot, one onion, 



62 A SECOND HELPING 

salt and pepper ; bring to the boil and when 
cooked put aside. Make a white roux in a small 
saucepan, add some of the stock, a little grated 
nutmeg, a squeeze of lemon and boil this till it 
thickens ; add a few small mushrooms and some 
button onions (previously cooked in stock). Put 
in a fireproof dish the pieces of chicken, the 
contents of the small saucepan and at the last 
minute a liason made of one tablespoonful of 
vinegar, a little milk, the yolk of an egg and a 
small piece of butter. Be careful it does not 
then reach the boiling point. 

POULET CREOLE 

Take a young chicken and joint it. Fry the 
pieces in butter till they are lightly browned. 
Also fry some sliced onion in butter, and when 
cooked add a tablespoonful of curry powder, a 
pinch of saffron, salt and a little sugar. Cook 
for about twenty minutes and add the pieces of 
chicken. Pound the kernel of a cocoanut with 
the milk of the nut, adding a little hot water. 
Pour this over the chicken and cook another 
quarter of an hour. Serve with rice either plain 
or with a sauce a I'indienne. 

FRICASSEE DE POULET 

This is a very good way of using up "remnants " 
of roast chicken. Cut whatever meat is left in 
small pieces and brown them in butter in a 
frying pan. Prepare a Bechamel sauce, pour it 
over the chicken, add a small glass of consomme 
and cook a few minutes more. Serve with 
croutons round the dish. 



MEAT DISHES 63 

COTELETTES D'AGNEAU AU FOUR 
Baked Lamb Cutlets 

Take two large onions, cut them in thin slices 
and cook them in butter for a few minutes only ; 
cut also in thin slices about half a pound of good 
potatoes (the long yellow kind being in this case 
preferable to the large white floury ones) ; put 
potatoes and onions in a well-buttered fireproof 
dish ; add salt and pepper and a claret glassful of 
beef stock. Cook for about one hour in a 
moderate oven. 

Take six lamb cutlets well trimmed and brown 
them in butter both sides, then bury them in the 
bed of potatoes and onions, adding here and 
there a few small pieces of butter, and finish 
cooking in the oven. You must put in the cutlets 
just at the right moment, so that they are nicely 
done just when the potatoes are getting a golden 
brown colour. It is also essential to put in the 
correct amount of beef-stock, which should have 
entirely disappeared when the dish is ready ; if 
you put too little, the potatoes will probably 
" catch " ; if you put too much they will be sodden 
instead of being in that state which is an agreeable 
mixture of softness and crispness. 

GIGOT D'AGNEAU AUX POINTES 
D'ASPERGES 

Roast Lamb with Asparagus 

Prepare a nice leg of lamb, place it in a 
casserole on a bed of carrots, onions, bacon rind 
and broken bones, and put the casserole on a 
slow fire for about twenty minutes, put it aside 



64 A SECOND HELPING 

a little while and then add a glassful of good 
stock, salt and pepper, cover it with buttered 
paper and cook it in the oven, basting often. 

Prepare a Bechamel sauce with very little milk, 
add to it the gravy from the braised lamb (having 
skimmed off the fat), some asparagus tips cooked 
in the ordinary way, and sautees in butter, and 
cover the lamb with this sauce. Have some 
more asparagus tips round the dish or at each end. 

GIGOT A L'ECOSSAISE 
Boiled Leg of Mutton 
Take a leg of mutton, wrap it in a cloth and dip 
it in boiling salted water, boil it on a quick fire for 
about two hours. At the same time prepare 
some boiled potatoes (cooked in their skins) and 
a nice white cabbage, which should be cooked in 
the following manner : put in a saucepan about 
a pound of bacon, thyme, parsley and bay leaf, 
and boil it for about one hour and a half, then 
put in the cabbage cut in six or eight parts and 
cook till tender. Serve your gigot surrounded 
with pieces of cabbage (well drained), potatoes 
(skinned;, thin slices of bacon and a butter sauce 
with chopped parsley. This is a good substantial 
dish more suitable for winter than for summer. 

GIGOT PRAVAZ 
Leg of Mutton Pravaz 
This dish was duly appraised, quite lately, at 
a Parisian dinner party. It was so called by the 
inventor (a distinguished French government 
official and poet) because the injection is made 
with a seringue de Praraz. 



MEAT DISHES 65 

Having secured a fine leg of lamb or mutton, 
prepare in a port glass the following mixture : 
two liqueur glasses of good brandy, one bay leaf, 
two cloves, one small piece of garlic, one sprig 
of thyme, six peppercorns coarsely broken — all 
this to soak undisturbed for twelve hours. Then 
take a hypodermic syringe for intra muscular 
injections (it should be large enough to contain 
the above, and the needle rather strong), and 
inject the solution very slowly in the meat in four 
or five places, taking care not to shake the de- 
posit at the bottom of the glass. The meat must 
then rest for at least two hours, to give the 
solution time to penetrate and flavour. The 
preparations finished, we come to the actual 
cooking of the piece. There are two ways : 

1. Boiled in the manner called in France a 
CAnglaise, for which you wrap the leg of mutton 
in a white cloth, put it in boiling water with salt, 
pepper (unbroken), carrots, onions, bayleaf, and 
cook it a quarter of an hour to the pound. 

2. Roasted on a bed of potatoes, onions, 
carrots, all sliced, and mixed together. 

The ideal vegetable dishes to serve with the 
'* Gigot Pravaz" are, for the boiled kind, di puree 
of white haricot beans ; for the roasted one, red 
haricot beans bourguignonne} 

GIGOT BRETONNE 
Take a good leg of mutton, spread some butter 
over it, and sprinkle it with salt and pepper. In 
Brittany they add a little piece of garlic near the 
bone, but that is a matter of taste. Roast the 
mutton in the ordinary way, basting it frequently. 

I. See chapter on Vegetables. E 



66 A SECOND HELPING 

Put in a saucepan some haricot beans which 
have been soaked in cold water for at least one 
night, with two large onions, salt and pepper 
and some thyme, parsley and a bay leaf tied 
together. Fill the saucepan nearly full with cold 
water, and cook the beans. In another saucepan 
put some butter, two shallots, and one tomato 
chopped, and let this simmer gently until it has 
the appearance of a thick cream, then add a little 
of the gravy from the mutton. Strain the beans, 
add them to this sauce, and let them simmer for 
a few minutes, after which put them in a fireproof 
dish with the mutton resting on top ; put this 
into the oven for ten more minutes, and serve. 

This sounds a rather complicated dish to make, 
but one has prepared vegetables as well as meat ; 
also it is well worth the trouble, being one of 
the most delicious country dishes of France. 

GIBELOTTE SAUTERNAISE 

Although a "gibelotte" is usually made of 
rabbit, this one, which is special to the Sauternes 
district, is made of mutton. It has the double 
merit of being very good and very useful, as it 
is a pleasant and unusual way of using up " left- 
over" roast mutton. Cut the mutton in small 
pieces (having first trimmed it well), and cook it 
in pork fat or butter. Chop two or three shallots 
and cook them for a few minutes in fat (they 
should be only very light brown), then mix the 
mutton and the shallots, add chopped parsley, 
salt and pepper, and a good glass of white wine 
and let it simmer gently for half an hour or so. 
It seems as if the mixture of all these ingredients 



MEAT DISHES 67 

is a particularly happy one, and, for instance, a 
*' gibelotte " made of beef is not nearly so good. 
It is so much appreciated by the people of the 
district that they sometimes buy mutton for the 
special purpose of having their "gibelotte" — 
which, as a matter of fact, is better made with 
meat already cooked, as was originally intended. 

MOUTON A LA BOURGEOISE 

This is an excellent method of using up some 
cold roast mutton, as it makes a delicious entree, 
and also renders the meat more tender. Cut 
the mutton into fairly thin pieces and brown 
them in butter, add shallots and parsley finely 
chopped. Cook for five minutes on a moderate 
fire, and add a tablespoonful of flour, which must 
be well mixed in. Then pour in a glass of water, 
add salt and pepper and cook for one hour. Ten 
minutes before serving stir in a tablespoonful of 
olive oil. This dish is at its best when served 
with grilled tomatoes. 

HACHIS DE MOUTON PORTUGAISE 

Prepare exactly as above, but add a table- 
spoonful of tomato puree — which can be bought 
in tins for a few pence if you do not want to 
make it with fresh tomatoes. Serve with stuffed 
tomatoes round it, the stuffed tomatoes prepared 
in the following manner: Cut the tomatoes in 
half, remove the seed, scoop out the flesh, and 
fill them with a mixture made of sausage meat, 
minced mushrooms, fried onions finely chopped, 
breadcrumbs moistened with tomato juice, and a 
little stock. Bake in the oven with a small piece 



68 A SECOND HELPING 

of butter over each tomato. This dish should be 
highly spiced and seasoned. 

HACHIS DE MOUTON AU GRATIN 

Again prepare as described before, with or 
without tomato puree, according to taste. Pre- 
pare a good puree of potatoes with hot milk and 
butter, and make a surround of it in a fireproof 
dish. Fill the inside with the minced mutton, 
sprinkle with breadcrumbs, add here and there 
a few pieces of butter, and bake in the oven till 
nicely brown. You can, if you like, paint the 
puree over with yolk of egg, but it is not 
necessary. 

RISSOLES DE MOUTON 

Mince the mutton finely. Brown in oil and 
butter mixed, three shallots finely chopped, add 
your minced meat, chopped mushrooms, a little 
puree of tomatoes, salt and pepper, and a drop 
of gravy or stock. Mix well. 

Prepare a batter for flaky pastry, roll it very 
thin, make little fritters filled with meat, and fry 
in very hot fat. Serve with fried parsley. 

For all the above dishes the skin should be 
carefully removed and only the nice lean parts 
of the roast mutton used. 

ESCALOPES DE VEAU A LA i 

PARISIENNE ^ 

Cut the veal into even sized pieces about half 
an inch thick, beat them, season them with salt 
and pepper, and brown them in butter on both 



I 



MEAT DISHES 69 

sides on a quick fire. Put the escalopes in a 
casserole with the butter, and add some chervil, 
parsley, and one or two shallots all finely chopped, 
and a little later some sliced button mushrooms. 
Stir in a tablespoonful of flour and a little stock. 
Allow all this to simmer gently for one hour, 
by which time the sauce should be a rich brown 
colour, 

COTES DE VEAU PAILLARD 
Take some nice veal cutlets, thin, white and 
tender, season them both sides with salt and 
pepper and brown them in butter. Put them in 
a fireproof dish, sprinkle them with a mixture of 
grated cheese and breadcrumbs and finish 
cooking them (well gratinees) in an oven or under 
the grill. 

For the sauce, put in a small saucepan one 
truffle finely chopped, a port glassful of Madeira 
wine, let it reduce by half, add a little good stock 
and butter and pour the sauce over the cutlets 
in the dish in which they have been cooked. 
See that they have been kept very hot. 

COTES DE VEAU A LA NORMANDE 
Either fry or grill the veal cutlets. Mix 
together in a small saucepan equal quantities of 
very good butter and fresh cream, melt it an 
bain-marie and. simply add salt and pepper. Serve 
with or over the cutlets. 

VEAU AU CITRON 

Take a good-sized piece of veal, trim it well 
and put it in a casserole with salt, pepper, a little 
chopped parsley, and no more than a pudding 



70 A SECOND HELPING 

spoonful of water. Add a sprinkling of cinnamon 
and nutmeg, keep covered and cook slowly. 
One hour afterwards add the juice of several 
lemons (about two lemons to each pound of veal) 
and go on cooking slowly with the lid on till 
ready. 

ROTI DE VEAU BRAISE 
Braised Veal 

Get a good piece of veal, preferably in the ribs, 
but see that the butcher does not cut it into chops. 
Bone it and trim it carefully, flatten it. If there 
is a kidney, place it in the middle, and, having 
sprinkled the whole thing both sides with salt 
and pepper, roll it like a galantine and tie it well. 
Brown it in butter. 

At the same time prepare in a buttered fireproof 
dish a bed of vegetables, carrots, onions cut in 
small pieces, a little bacon, and parsley finely 
chopped, water it with a glass of dry white wine, 
add a drop of vinegar and let j'^our veal rest on 
this. Bake in a moderate oven, basting often. 

Before serving squash the vegetables and pass 
the gravy obtained through a sieve ; remove the 
string, serve the veal, covered with the gravy. 



FOIE DE VEAU AU FOUR 

Baked Calf's Liver 

Cut the calfs liver — about one pound for four 
persons — into pieces and fry them in butter for 
a few minutes, turning them so that each side is 
nicely browned. Then prepare a seasoning with 
one thin slice of streak}- bacon, a little parsley, 



MEAT DISHES 71 

and one shallot, all chopped very finely. Add 
salt and pepper, spread the seasoning evenly in a 
fireproof dish and lay the slices of liver over it, 
adding the butter in which it was fried. Cover 
the dish with buttered paper and cook in a gentle 
oven for about fifteen minutes. 

COTES DE PORC 

Pork Chops 

Having grilled your pork chops (the}' should 
be quite dry and free from melted fat) serve them 
with either of the following sauces : — 

Sauce Robert. — Chop one onion, brown it in 
butter, add a pinch of flour, a tablespoonful or 
so of good beef stock, salt, pepper, a teaspoonful 
of French mustard, chives and parsley finely 
chopped, and cook about a quarter of an hour. 

Sauce Viable. — Chop one shallot and cook it 
in wine vinegar till the vinegar has reduced by 
half at least, then add a tablespoonful of brown 
roux, a little tomato puree, a tablespoonful of 
beef stock, same quantity of mushroom stock, 
salt and pepper, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. 
Let it reduce and pass through a fine sieve before 
serving. This sauce, very appetising in hot 
weather, should be highly seasoned. 

BCEUF EN DAUBE. I 

Braised Beef 

Take a piece of beef, lard it with strips of 
bacon sprinkled with salt and pepper, season it 
on all sides and soak it in claret (about three 



72 A SECOND HELPING 

quarters of a bottle would do for a piece of beef 
weighing about four pounds) for a couple of 
hours. Drain it well and fry it in butter so as 
to close the meat which should retain its juice 
during the lengthy process of braising. Put it 
in a saucepan, pour over it the wine used before, 
a liqueur glass of brandy, a cup of consomme, 
add a little grated nutmeg, a bouquet (one clove, 
parsley, thyme and bay leaf) two lumps of sugar, 
and bring to the boil. Then add a few onions 
cut in quarters, one calf s foot cut in small cubes, 
and let it simmer very slowly for at least eight 
hours ; at " half time " put in a few carrots cut in 
slices and previously fried in butter. When the 
cooking is finished put the beef on a serving dish, 
arrange the carrots around the meat and pour 
over it the gravy from which the fat must be 
carefully removed. It should be so soft that 
you can use a spoon for serving it (hence its 
other name : boeufd la cuiller). It is equally good 
hot or cold. 

BGEUF EN DAUBE. II 

Take three or four pounds of rump-steak, cut 
it in thin slices, beat and season them well. 
Prepare some hachis in the following way : one 
pound of pork, half fat, half lean, two onions, 
parsley, shallots and chervil, all finely chopped 
together and highly seasoned. On one slice of 
beef put a layer of mincemeat, then a few slices 
of bacon, then another slice of beef, and so on till 
you have used the whole lot, ending by a slice of 
beef. Having tied the piece all round with fine 
string, put it in a fire-proof dish on a bed of 



MEAT DISHES 73 

butter, bones, onion, and carrots (in slices), add 
the classical bouquet, a glass of water, salt and 
pepper, a little nutmeg, also a tablespoonful of 
tomato pur^e and a glass of dry white wine. 
Cook slowly about five hours with the lid on. 
When it is thoroughly cooked place the piece of 
beef in a deep dish, remove the string and pour 
over it, through a sieve, all the gravy, \yhich, 
when cold, will be a succulent jelly. It is ad- 
visable to make this dish a day before so that the 
meat is well flavoured. 

B(EUF BRAIS£ AUX PETITS POIS 

Take a nice piece of steak, season it with salt 
and pepper, and put it in a casserole with a piece 
of butter. Put the casserole on a very quick fire 
and cook the beef for about ten minutes, turning 
it frequently. Meanwhile have some new peas 
shelled (use the smallest you can get) and add 
them to the beef with more salt and pepper. 
Put the lid on the casserole and let it simmer very 
gently for about two and a half to three hours, 
keeping it covered all the time. 

FILET DE BCEUF PIQUE 

Fillet of Beef 

Take about two pounds of fillet, roll and tie it, 
lard it with strips of fat bacon and sprinkle it 
with salt and pepper on all sides. Cook the beef 
in a very quick oven for about three-quarters of 
an hour. The oven should be very hot when the 
beef is put in so that the meat will " close up " 
immediately, thus keeping in all the juice. 



74 A SECOND HELPING 

It is advisable for this dish, as indeed for all 
small roasts, to hang the meat in the oven, or, if 
impossible, to rest it on a grill standing in the 
baking tin, so that the heat acts evenly on all the 
sides of the meat. 



PETITS FILETS DE BCEUF GRILLES 

Take some medium-sized fillets of beef, not 
too thick, beat them well, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, paint them with butter and grill, if 
possible, over a glowing wood fire. Serve them 
with the following sauce : — 

Horseradish Sauce. — Peel and chop very finel}' 
two small shallots, fry them in butter till brown ; 
then add one ounce of grated horseradish, a 
tablespoonful of vinegar, some chopped parsley, 
salt and pepper. Cook slowly for ten minutes, 
after which add a claret glassful of cream. Cook 
it again till thoroughly hot, but do not bring it 
to the boil. 

ENTRECOTES RENNAISE 

Choose a good steak, weighing about one 
pound, sprinkle it with salt and pepper, paint it 
with a little melted butter, and grill it on both 
sides. 

Work about three ounces of butter with two 
shallots and some parsley chopped, adding salt 
and pepper. Spread this on the bottom of a dish, 
rest the steak on it, and put the dish, covered 
with a plate, on the top of a saucepan of boiling 
water for five minutes. Serve with a pur6e of 
potatoes. 



MEAT DISHES 75 

TOURNEDOS SAUT£S 

Take two or three fillets of steak, season them 
with salt and pepper and put them in a frying 
pan with a good piece of butter. Fry them on a 
quick fire and turn them so that each side is 
nicely browned. Place the pan on one side so 
that the beef does not cook any more, but is just 
kept hot ; then prepare the following sauce : 
Put a piece of butter (the size of an egg) in a 
saucepan with a tablespoonful of flour, salt and 
pepper. Cook on a very quick fire until brown 
and stir in a little stock. You may then add 
some chopped mushrooms (previously browned 
in butter) or some chopped olives according to 
your taste. Then put the fillets in the serving 
dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve very 
hot. 

BCEUF AU FOUR 

This is an excellent method of using any cold 
beef which may have been " left over." Take a 
well-buttered fireproof dish and line it with some 
fried onions. Add a layer of the beef chopped 
or minced and a layer of sliced boiled carrots. 
Fill the dish in this way with alternate layers of 
the meat and vegetables, leaving a little free 
space on top. Cover with a good puree of 
of potatoes or breadcrumbs, and place in a quick 
oven until nicely browned. 

B(EUF GRATINE 

Is also made with cold boiled beef. First 
chop some rather fat bacon, put it in a fireproof 
dish and melt it for a few minutes on the fire, 



76 A SECOND HELPING 

then add some small button mushrooms, onions, 
and parsley chopped, salt and pepper (and if you 
like it a tiny piece of garlic). Cut the beef in 
slices and put these on top of the vegetables, add 
some more of them and sprinkle with bread- 
crumbs. Pour over a glass of white wine and 
bake in a moderate oven until the dish is nicely 
browned. 

RAGOUT DE BCEUF 

The preliminary frying of the vegetables for 
this dish makes all the difference to it and gives 
it a flavour quite apart from that of an ordinary 
"stew." 

Clean and peel the following vegetables and 
then cut them into slices : three medium-sized 
carrots, three onions, and several tomatoes. 
Place them in an earthenware stewpan and fry 
them in olive oil — or butter, if you prefer it — 
until almost cooked. Meanwhile you should 
have browned your beef for a few minutes in 
butter. Add the meat to the vegetables, and 
then one tumblerful of cold water, salt and 
pepper. Let the ragout simmer gently for at 
least one hour and a half, keeping the lid on the 
pan. 

SAUCISSES AUX CHOUX 
Sausages with Cabbage 

Put a piece of bacon \ about half a pound in 
weight, in a large saucepan with water, broken 
pepper, salt and the classical bayleaf, thyme and 
parsley tied together ; cook it for about one 
hour and a half. Then remove it, if you are a 

1. The right thing to use is really pickled pork, or that kind 
of unsmoked bacon called in some parts of England "green." 



MEAT DISHES 77 

careful person and want to use it at its best for 
something else (or cold in the Irish peasant 
fashion) — or recklessly leave it in if you do 
not mind. Anyhow, the water is sufficiently 
flavoured by now for our purpose. Bring it 
once more to the boil and then throw in your 
cabbage, previously well washed and cut in 
smallish pieces. 

While the cabbage is cooking grill the sausages 
(the long French ones made of pork are the only 
possible ones for this dish) and keep them warm. 
Drain the cabbage well, add more salt and pepper, 
a little grated nutmeg, a small piece of butter, 
and put half of it in a fireproof dish, then the 
sausages on this bed, then the rest of the cabbage. 
Pour a cupful of good beef stock over it. Cook 
in a moderate oven with the lid on for about 
half an hour or so. This dish, if properly pre- 
pared, is quite delicious. 



SAUCISSES AUX HARICOTS 

Take about one pound of haricot beans, soak 
them twelve hours, cook them in cold water and 
a little salt for three or four hours ; then remove 
them and throw away almost all the water. Add 
a good piece of butter and keep the beans hot 
on a slow fire. Take some pork sausages, grill 
them or fry them, according to taste, and when 
cooked put them in a frying-pan together with 
the beans and the fat from the sausages. Fry 
the whole thing for a little while so that the 
beans are slightly browned and the fat evaporated. 
This dish should be well seasoned. 



78 A SECOND HELPING 

fricass£e de saucisses aux 
garottes 

Take some sausages — of the French kind, 
made of minced pork — and grill them (pricking 
them here and there with a sharp knife). Then 
take some carrots which have been previously 
parboiled, cut them in slices and finish cooking 
them in butter. When they are nicelj' fried, 
put them in a fireproof dish together with the 
sausages, a little chopped parsley, part of the 
fat from the sausages, a little fresh butter, a few 
drops of lemon juice, a wineglassful of dry white 
wine, and chopped shallots (previously fried in 
butter), salt and pepper. Cook the fricassee for 
a few minutes and serve in the same dish. 

ROGNONS FLAMBfiS 
Kidneys 
Take some kidneys and cook them in butter 
for a few minutes ; then cut them in thin slices, 
season with salt and pepper, pour over them a 
glass of brandy, set alight. Gook a little more, 
adding a little butter and a small quantity of 
French mustard (the kind that is flavoured with 
tarragone), stirring all the time. 

ROGNONS AU GENl£VRE 
Take a veal kidney, leave it whole and trim it, 
leaving only very little fat round it. Gook it for 
about half an hour in butter, in a fireproof covered 
dish, turning it frequently. About ten minutes 
before serving put in a few crushed juniper 
berries, salt and pepper, and a little consomme. 
Serve in the same dish. 



MEAT DISHES 79 

GALANTINE 

Take two pounds of lean beef, one pound of 
fat pork, and half a pound of very salt bacon. 
Boil these together in a large saucepan so that 
the meat is completely covered with water. 
When the meats are cooked remove and leave 
until quite cold, then mince them together, using 
the coarsest knife of the mincer. Add three 
onions and some parsley finely chopped, the 
yolks of three eggs, salt, and plenty of black 
pepper. Mix thoroughly and moisten with a 
little of the water in which the meat was boiled, 
form into the shape of a large sausage, and tie it 
in a piece of linen. Place in a steamer and cook 
for one hour. Do not untie the cloth until the 
sausage is quite cold. 

PATE DE CAMPAGNE 

Take two pounds of veal, one pound of streaky 
pork, a quarter of a pound of liver and mince it 
fairly fine together, but keep a few nice thin 
pieces of veal apart. Mix the mince well on the 
board, add one shallot and a little parsley 
chopped, spices and a good deal of salt and 
pepper. Butter a terrine, put in a layer of minced 
meat, a rasher of bacon, a slice of veal sprinkled 
with seasoning, another rasher, more minced 
meat and so on till the terrine is full. Cover 
with buttered paper and cook in a moderate 
oven for an hour and a quarter. Put a weight 
over it and let it grow cold. It will be better 
if made twenty-four hours before it is to be 
eaten. 



8o A SECOND HELPING 

VOL-AU-VENT FINANCI£RE 

Cut two or three truffles in small pieces, chop 
the peelings, put them in a small saucepan with 
a glass of Madeira, and let it reduce by half, Put 
in another saucepan a piece of butter the size of 
an egg, a tablespoonful of flour, and cook till 
brown ; add a tablespoonful of good stock, 
stirring all the time, then your truffles and 
Madeira, and mushrooms, coxcombs, quenelles, 
fonds dartichauts (all things which you can buy 
already prepared in jars), a few pieces of sweet- 
bread previously cooked in butter, and cook the 
whole thing a little while without bringing it to 
the boil. Fill with the mixture your vol-au-vents 
(the paste should be very light) which you have 
kept hot in the oven. 

FOIE GRAS AUX RAISINS 

Take 2ifoie gras (of duck, preferably), season it 
with salt, pepper and spices ; put in a saucepan 
a garniture of onions, carrots, parsley, thyme and 
bay-leaf, tie a thin piece of fat unsmoked bacon 
round \hefoie gras, put it on the vegetables, add 
a glass of port or Madeira, and cook with the lid 
on three-quarters of an hour on a rather slow 
fire, basting often. 

Move it to an earthenware casserole, skim the 
fat off the gravy, which should be poured through 
a strainer over the foie gras, add a handful of 
grapes (pips carefully removed), cook another 
twenty-five minutes on very little fire ; see that 
it is well seasoned, and serve with croutons round 
the dish. 



MEAT DISHES 8i 

This foie gras aux raisins, really exquisite, is 
probably one of the best dishes of the Bordeaux 
district. It can be made in the winter, when you 
can get fresh foie gras, and also the rest of the 
year with tinned ones. This is, of course, the 
foie gras preserved plain and not prepared as a 
pate, in fact the whole liver of the fattened duck ; 
it is large enough as a rule for eight to ten 
people. Some gourmets add one or two truffles 
during the cooking for flavouring, but remove 
them before serving, which is le comble dtt raffine- 
ment. 



82 A SECOND HELPING 



VEGETABLES 

VEGETABLE DISHES 

It is a great mistake alwa3^s to serve two 
vegetables as an accompaniment to a meat course. 
At least one vegetable, potatoes, is quite enough, 
and the practice both extravagant and monoton- 
ous of what clubs called " the vegetables of the 
day" (or what the cook calls "a second vege- 
table ") should be discouraged. Why have with 
any meat course, say, potatoes and either French 
beans, or spinach, or young carrots, plainly' 
boiled, simply because it is a habit ? It may be 
that the taste of these vegetables does not go 
specially well wuth the flavour of the meat dish ; 
it m^y be also that the flavour of these vegetables 
is not at its best when only plainly boiled. So 
why not make two courses instead of one and 
have, in the French fashion, a course of meat and 
potatoes and a separate vegetable course, both at 
their best ? It costs hardly a penny more and is 
far pleasanter, indeed it will excite even the most 
jaded appetite. 

Needless to say, the vegetables must be young 
and tender. It seems, somehow, a ghastly tragedy 
to see these admirable English raw materials 
cooked ever so primitively in plain water, or 
allowed to go till over-mature by a gardener, 
more anxious of size than of flavour. However, 
if we live in London we must be content with the 



VEGETABLES 83 

best we can get at the greengrocer's, but if we 
have a garden we must be firm and not be afraid 
of breaking the gardener's heart ; our peas must 
be small, our broad beans under age, and our 
lettuces gathered in their youth. 

They must also be specially prepared; boiling 
is only a preparation for the finished article, and 
the finished article is well worth the extra 
trouble. Simple as these dishes are we seem 
somehow far from the days when " sharp hunger " 
was the only seasoning of 

" Our Cambrian fathers sparing in their food. 
Their sallading was never far to seek, 
The poignant water-grass, or sav'ry leek ..." 

But then perhaps they felt about it as Nebu- 
chadnezar did according to that old Oxford prize 
poem : — 

'* Nebuchadnezar ate the rank green grass 
With herds of oxen and the savage ass, 

And murmured as he cropped the unwanted food. 
It may be wholesome, but it is not good." 

POMMES DE TERRE AU LARD 

Potatoes 

Cut in pieces about ten or twelve medium- 
sized potatoes (the yellow kind being for this 
dish better than white floury ones), dry them 
well and keep them wrapped in a cloth. Cut in 
small cubes a quarter of a pound of lean bacon 
and put them in a casserole with a good piece of 
butter. When they are getting brown add a 
tablespoonful of flour and mix well. Simmer 



84 A SECOND HELPING 

for a few more minutes, add a little stock, salt 
and pepper and the classical bouquet (to be 
removed before serving). Then put in the 
potatoes and cook them gently for about an hour 
or so till they are well done. Some people fry 
the potatoes a few minutes in butter before 
putting them in the casserole. There is some- 
thing to be said for this process. 

POMMES DE TERRE AU FROMAGE 

This is an old recipe for making potatoes with 
gratine cheese (the ordinary way being to cook 
potatoes, cut them in slices, mix them with a 
bechamel sauce sprinkled with cheese, and brown 
them in the oven). Boil your potatoes as usual 
in salted water, mash them well and add season- 
ing, also four eggs, one after the other, and mix 
well. Butter a fireproof dish, put in a layer of 
potatoes, then grated cheese, more potatoes, more 
cheese, and so on till the dish is full, finishing 
by a layer of grated cheese, breadcrumbs and a 
few pieces of butter. Brown in the oven. 

DEVONSHIRE FRIED POTATOES 

First boil the potatoes, then put a little fat in 
a pan and your potatoes ; chop them over the 
fire, shaking them well, add seasoning, and give 
them the shape of a flat cake about half the size 
of the frying pan. Put a plate over them. They 
should be fried over an even glowing fire till 
they begin to smoke ; by then they should be 
nicely browned. Turn them over in the plate 
and serve at once. 



VEGETABLES 85 

POMMES PAILLE 

Cut some yellow potatoes as thin as straw, dry 
them well, and throw them into a deep dish full 
of boiling fat. In a few minutes they will be 
crisp and golden, after which you drain them 
well and sprinkle with salt. 

PUREE DE POMMES SOUFFLEE 

Cook in salted water some white floury 
potatoes, drain them well, put them in a clean 
saucepan and dry them over the fire so that they 
are not watery. Mash them well — there must 
not be a single lump left — put in salt and pepper, 
a good piece of butter and a tablespoonful of hot 
milk. Beat this well and work it over the fire, 
add the yolks of two eggs and another table- 
spoonful of milk, more even if it looks too thick, 
then put in the whites of the two eggs well 
whipped. Mix thoroughly, and bake in a hot 
oven for about a quarter of an hour. 

Another attractive way of serving this dish is 
the following : Instead of boiling the potatoes, 
bake them in their skins in the oven, then cut 
them in two, scrape out the inside, prepare as 
described above and refill the empty skins with 
the puree instead of putting it in a dish. Finish 
baking in the same way. 

POMMES SICILIENNE 

First make a very good puree of potatoes, 

using, if possible, cream instead of milk. Then 

take a small orange, cut it into slices (using the 

rind as well), remove the pith and pips, dry each 



86 A SECOND HELPING 

slice in a cloth, fry them for a few minutes in 
butter, and chop them into little pieces. Fry 
also one or two finely chopped shallots and add 
them to the orange. Mix this well with the 
puree, add salt and pepper, and form into little 
balls. Place these in a buttered fireproof dish 
and bake in a quick oven for a few minutes so 
that the balls are nicely browned. 

The flavour of orange in this way of doing 
potatoes goes especially well with goose, in the 
same way that an orange salad is a good 
accompaniment to wild duck. 

BLACK POTATOES 
Boil or, better still, steam them in their skins. 
Then skin them and serve with melted butter, 
salt and pepper. They taste neither like a 
potato nor like a sweet potato, having a peculiar 
nutty flavour entirely their own. 

POMMES FRITES PAYSANNE 
Cut some potatoes in small cubes rather less 
than one inch square and fry them in very little 
fat (there should be no fat left in the pan at the 
end of the cooking) ; stir them well, and a few 
minutes before serving add chopped parsley, a 
little garlic chopped very fine, and salt. Serve at 
once. This method, which seems to be against 
all rules for frying potatoes, gives excellent 
results. 

RAW FRY 

In the Cornish villages this dish is usually 
made of turnips, potatoes and onions. Cut them 
in slices and fry them in butter till they are half 



VEGETABLES 87 

cooked, then add water, just enough to cover the 
vegetables, salt and pepper, a few small pieces 
of streaky bacon ; cover the frying pan and let 
the whole thing simmer till thoroughly cooked, 
by which time it should be fairly dry. 

SQUAB PIE 

The story goes that there was once an old 
man and his wife who lived quietly in their little 
cottage. They had a tiny garden in which he 
grew onions, leeks, potatoes, wallflowers and 
hollyhock, and she cooked some of these (not the 
flowers) for their modest meals. She never 
complained and he never grumbled ; they only 
quarrelled at dinner time because the one liked 
sweet pie, the other savoury pie ; and, as they 
were old people without money or children, their 
daily food was their only interest in life. So 
that the squabble about the pie became every 
day more noisy and passionate. In fact, they 
were on the verge of what the daily press would 
call a "domestic tragedy" when, one day while 
cooking the famous pie, the wife had an inspiration 
— why not mix the ingredients and make a com- 
bined pie, partly sweet, partly savoury ? The 
ingredients were good, thought she, the result 
ought to be good. Indeed it was, and so was 
born the " squab pie," and they lived happily for 
ever after, the old man, his wife and the squab 
pie — of which here is the genuine recipe : — 

Put in a pie dish leeks and potatoes cut in 
slices and a few pieces of either beef or mutton, 
salt, pepper and a Httle water, and cook on a 
moderate fire till it is partly cooked ; then add 



88 A SECOND HELPING 

apples cut in quarters, and sugar (it should be 
noticeably sweet), finish cooking, cover with 
pastry of a flaky kind, and bake the pie in a quick 
oven. The apples should be put in so that they 
are cooked precisely at the same moment as the 
meat and vegetables.^ 

CHOUX VERTS 

Green Cabbage 

Take some small green cabbages, boil them in 
salted water, drain them well, mash them 
thoroughly, add, over the fire, butter, salt, and 
pepper, aud what is usually called a ** drop " of 
vinegar. They are also excellent simply saute, 
in which case you begin by boiling them as 
before ; then remove them before they are com- 
pletely cooked, drain them well, and fry them in 
hot butter, and season just before serving. 

CHOUX A LA CR£ME 

Take a good-sized savoy cabbage, remove the 
coarse outer leaves and cut the cabbage into 
four pieces ; wash them well and cook them in 

I. Up till now I had not been able to discover in England any 
autochthonous dishes (excepting of course, the classical things 
like steak and kidney pie, lamb and mint sauce, and various 
steamed puddings) but now I have tasted some which are delicious, 
and no doubt there are more, somewhere in Yorkshire, maybe ; 
though when you ask an Englishman about these honest local 
dishes he is curiously reticent about, or ignorant of them. To 
the West of England, Devonshire or Cornwall, we are indebted 
for many things — fine butter, junket, Cornish pasties, saffron 
cakes and cream which, when made in the old-fashioned way 
(without a "separator"), is unique in flavour, richness and 
delicacy. It is also from the West Country that come Raw Fry, 
Squab Pie and Devonshire fried potatoes; they are only common 
dishes, but characteristic and really exceedingly pleasant. 



VEGETABLES 89 

boiling salted water till quite tender. Then 
remove the cabbage, drain off all the water, 
season it and put it in a serving dish with the 
following sauce poured over : Put a tablespoonful 
of flour in a small saucepan with a good piece of 
butter and cook it a little, then add a little milk, 
salt and pepper. Bring to the boil, stirring 
constantly, add a little more butter, and if too 
thick more milk ; also, just before serving, some 
fresh cream. 

CHOUX DE BRUXELLES A L'lTALIENNE 

Brussel Sprouts 
Wash and clean some Brussels sprouts, drain 
them well and cook them in boiling salted water 
on a quick fire for about a quarter of an hour. 
Meanwhile, put in a small saucepan a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, and a spoonful of flour 
and cook this for five minutes, stirring and 
mixing well ; add about a pint of milk, bring to 
the boil and let it thicken ; it is then time to add 
seasoning, a little grated nutmeg, the juice of a 
lemon and grated cheese. Then put your sprouts 
(well drained once more) in the sauce and cook 
a little more on a slow fire, bringing to the boil. 
Needless to say, it is no use being mean about 
the sauce, and the quantities given above, which 
would only do for a small quantity of sprouts 
should be increased accordingly. 

CHOUX-FLEURS MAITRE D'HOTEL 

Cauliflower 
Cook the cauliflower in boiling water with 
salt, and when almost cooked remove it, strain 



90 A SECOND HELPING 

carefully, and let the cauliflower dry in front of 
the fire for a few minutes. Melt a piece of 
butter in a casserole, add a little water, and 
bring to the boil. Break the cauliflower into 
little pieces, taking care that they are not 
squashed, and place them in the casserole. Season 
and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes, 
after which sprinkle with chopped parsley and 
serve. 

CHOUX-FLEURS FRITS I. 

Prepare and boil the cauliflower in the usual 
manner but remove it before it is too soft ; break 
it into pieces and soak these for about a quarter 
of an hour in half cold water, half vinegar, salt 
and pepper. Dip the pieces in a batter and fry 
them in the ordinary way. A tablespoonful of 
olive oil added to the batter two hours before it 
is to be used is a considerable improvement. 

CHOUX-FLEURS FRITS II. 

Boil a good-sized cauliflower in salted water, 
and when it is nearly cooked remove it carefully 
and dry it in front of the fire. Then break off 
the top into little pieces, and fry them in butter 
until nicely browned. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Add a few lumps of butter and serve 
at once. 

PUR£E DE NAVETS 

Mashed Turnips 

Peel and wash five or six turnips and cook 
them in boiling salted water; drain them well 



VEGETABLES 91 

first, chop and then mash them well with a fork. 
Melt a good piece of butter in a frying pan, add 
the turnips, well seasoned, and fry them for a 
few minutes, stirring well. You may add a little 
Devonshire cream just before serving ; it gives 
a pleasant mellow flavour to the turnips. 

GAROTTES NOUVELLES A LA 
POULETTE 

New Carrots 

Take some small new carrots, scrape them 
lightly, and cook them in salted boiling water ; 
drain them well and keep them hot. Put in a 
saucepan a piece of butter the size of an egg and 
a tablespoonful of flour ; cook this a few minutes 
and see there are no lumps. Then add a glass 
of water, a little milk, salt and pepper, and cook 
the sauce about a quarter of an hour. Just 
before serving stir in a yolk of egg, a little cream 
and chopped parsley, and pour it over the carrots. 
Needless to say the sauce must not reach the 
boiling-point after the addition of the yolk of egg. 

FRICASSEE DE GAROTTES I. 

Scrape some small young carrots and wash 
them well. Melt a good piece of butter in a 
frying pan ; when fairly hot put in the carrots 
and cook, shaking and turning them occasionally. 
When they are about three quarters cooked add 
a rasher of bacon, cut in very small pieces, and 
chopped parsley. Sprinkle with salt before 
serving. 



92 A SECOND HELPING 

FRICASS£E DE garottes II. 

Take a dozen smallish carrots, scrape and 
wash them well and cook them in boiling salted 
water. When they are tender remove and drain 
them well. Melt some butter in a saucepan, add 
two onions finely chopped and brown them ; 
add the carrots cut in pieces and sprinkle them 
with flour ; when it becomes brownish add stock 
(not too much, it should be a fairly dry dish), 
salt, pepper and a little chopped parsley ; simmer 
for about a quarter of an hour and serve. 

PETITS POIS AU LARD 

Peas with Bacon 

Cut in small dice two rashers of streaky bacon, 
put them in a saucepan with a few small onions 
(the " button " kind), add a pinch of flour, then 
a tablespoon ful of good beef stock, a glass of 
water, salt and pepper, bring to the boil, after 
which put in the peas to be cooked till tender. 
Serve very hot and without removing either 
onions or bacon. 

FEVES MAlTRE D'HOTEL 

Broad Beans 

Take some broad beans (they should be young 
and tender) and throw them in salted boiling 
water, to which you add a bouquet composed of 
the heart of a lettuce, parsley, and one small 
onion. Cook on a quick fire and drain well. 
Put in a saucepan a good piece of butter, a 



VEGETABLES 93 

tablespoonful of the water in which the beans 
have cooked, salt, pepper; bring to the boil, put 
in the beans and go on cooking for a few minutes. 
Just before serving add a little more butter, a 
teaspoonful of cream and chopped parsley. 



HARICOTS BLANCS P£RIG0URDINE 

Take some new haricot beans (the white kind 
is the best), shell them, and cook them in boiling 
water with salt and a bouquet of thyme and 
parsley. When they are nearly cooked throw 
away some of the water in which they were 
cooked and put in a little tomato puree, or better 
still, a few fresh tomatoes (previously cooked 
in butter and passed through a sieve), and let 
the whole thing cook slowly a little more. See 
that it is properly seasoned and remove the 
bouquet before serving. 

HARICOTS ROUGE BOURGUIGNONNE 

Wash and soak some red haricot beans, put 
in a saucepan one carrot, one onion, a piece of 
streaky pickled pork, and a good piece of butter. 
Brown well on a moderate fire, then add a good 
glass of claret, a teacupful of beef stock, salt, 
pepper, bouquet, the haricot beans and just 
enough water to cover them if necessary. Bring 
to the boil, and let it simmer actually for hours. 
Before serving cut the pork in small pieces, 
remove bouquet, carrot and onion. Some people 
let this cook slowly(with the lid on) in the oven 
for a whole day. 



94 A SECOND HELPING 

HARICOTS MANGE-TOUT 

Take some fresh haricot beans of the kind 
called mange-tout, the pod of which is still tender, 
although the bean has reached its normal size. 
Break off the ends, removing at the same time 
the stringy parts, then break them in two and 
wash them well. Prepare a saucepan of boiling 
water (with salt and a bouquet of parsley and 
thyme), throw your haricots in this and add to 
it the juice of some tomatoes (four to a pound of 
mange-tout), cooked in very little water and 
squeezed through a sieve. Let it reduce a good 
deal, and just before serving add a piece of fresh 
butter. 

In the south of France, instead of adding 
butter they add a small amount of bacon, parsley 
and garlic finely chopped together. The taste 
is delicious. But it must be remembered, if 
trying this Southern way, that the garlic which 
grows in the North is much more powerful than 
the one from the South, and very little of it is 
sufficient to give it the right taste. 

HARICOTS VERTS A LA LANDAISE 

French Beans 

Take a sufficient quantity of French beans and 
cook them in boiling salted water. When they 
are quite soft strain them thoroughly, and let 
them get cold. Then melt some butter in a 
frying pan, add the beans and some grated 
cheese, a mixture of Gruy^re and Parmesan 
being the best. Fry the beans for a few minutes, 
and serve very hot. This dish should really be 



VEGETABLES 95 

made with the mange-tout kind of bean, but as 
they are difficult to get in London the others 
make a good substitute, especially if you add a 
few haricot beans to the others in the frying pan, 
having, of course, soaked and boiled them before. 

HARICOT VERTS A LA CREME 
Do not cut the French beans after the English 
fashion, but break both ends, tearing off the part 
which is "stringy" and throw them in boiling 
water with salt and pepper. When cooked (they 
should be quite firm still) drain them well and 
keep them hot. 

Meanwhile you have cooked a wineglassful of 
red wine vinegar till reduced by one third, and 
also removed it from the fire. Now, in another 
small saucepan mix some cream and the yolks 
of two eggs ; cook this over a slow fire till it just 
begins to thicken, adding the vinegar little by 
little and stirring all the time. Pour this mixture 
over the French beans, mix well, season, add 
chopped parsley and cook for a few minutes 
more. Squeeze a quarter of a lemon over it just 
before serving. 

EPINARDS AU GRATIN 

Spinach 

Take some spinach ; wash and clean them 

well and cook them in salted boiling water; 

drain them well and put them in a fireproof dish 

with a good piece of butter, salt and pepper. 

Take about a quarter of a pound of mush- 
rooms, peel them and cook them in a small 
saucepan, with water, a little vinegar and a 



96 A SECOND HELPING 

small piece of butter. When cooked, chop them 
very fine. Add a teaspoonful of flour, a liqueur 
glassful of sherry and a tumblerful of milk. 
Cook for about twenty minutes, add a little cream 
if you like. 

Pour this over the spinach, sprinkle with 
breadcrumbs and grated cheese, with here and 
there a few small pieces of butter, and brown 
in the oven. 

EPINARDS EN BRANCHE 
Choose the finest leaves of spinach, roll a few 
together and tie them lightly with thread. Cook 
them in salted water, drain them well, remove 
the thread, but try to keep them whole. Pour 
melted butter over them, season and serve at 
once. 

LAITUES AU FOUR 
Baked Lettuce 
Take some lettuces and remove the outside 
green leaves. Throw them in salted boiling 
water and cook for a few minutes. Remove 
most of the water and finish cooking in a closed 
dish on a slow fire. Drain well and put them 
in a buttered fireproof dish, cover with a bechamel 
sauce, sprinkle with breadcrumbs and brown in 
the oven. 

PUR£E DE CHIC0R£E 

Chicory ^ 

As salad reduces to next to nothing in cooking, 

it is advisable to allow one chicory for each 

person ; wash it well, remove the outside leaves, 

and cook it for about half an hour in boiling 

I. The green curly kind used for salads. 



VEGETABLES 97 

water; put it under the cold tap and drain it 
well, chop it very fine. Prepare a roux in a 
saucepan, add the chicory, salt and pepper, and 
cook it on a slow fire for about a quarter of an 
hour. Add, one by one, a few small pieces of 
butter, then a little fresh cream, and serve either 
with fried bread or poached eggs over it. It 
makes a good entree for luncheon. 

CROQUETTES DE CELERI 

This is a very pleasant and useful way of 
serving celery, when though "in" it is not nice 
and white enough for eating raw. Wash and 
clean the celery in salted water, dry it well in a 
cloth, cut it in small pieces and cook it in boiling 
water, on a quick fire, for about a quarter of an 
hour. Drain it well and chop it fine. Then put 
it again in just enough water to cover it and boil 
it for about three-quarters of an hour under a 
buttered paper. Make a roux with flour and 
butter, add, little by little, about a cupful of hot 
milk, salt and pepper and cook till fairl}'^ thick, 
add the chopped celery and cook a little more. 
Then bind it with a yolk of egg (or two according 
to the amount of sauce made and celery used). 
Let it get cold ; it should then have the con- 
sistency of batter. Make little fritters, roll them 
in whipped egg, sprinkle with breadcrumbs and 
fry in very hot fat. 

CRONES DU JAPON 
Japanese Artichokes 
Once they are well scraped and washed, fry 
them in butter until they are a nice golden colour. 



98 A SECOND HELPING 

Drain them well, sprinkle with salt and serve at 
once. They can also be boiled like salsify and 
served with a sauce blanche to which you add a 
little chopped parsley and lemon juice or wine 
vinegar. 

ASPERGES GRATIN£ES 

Scrape and wash some green asparagus and 
cook them in salted boiling water. Prepare in 
a small saucepan the classical mixture of butter 
and flour, cook it a few minutes, add milk, let it 
thicken and pour it over the asparagus (using 
only the tender green part, cut in small pieces) 
in a fireproof dish. Sprinkle well with grated 
cheese (Parmesan and Gruyere mixed in equal 
parts) and brown in the oven. 

Asparagus tips are also very good cooked 
a la poulette in the manner described for young 
carrots. 

ASPERGES A LA ROYALE 

Cut the tips of a bundle of small green 
asparagus, cook them in salted water, drain them 
well and pass them through a sieve to obtain a 
puree. Put in a small saucepan a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut, and a puddingspoonful of 
flour ; mix well, add half a tumblerful of milk, 
salt, pepper and a little nutmeg. Bring to the 
boil, whipping all the time, put in the puree of 
asparagus and a little more butter. Let it 
simmer a little while and serve in a sauceboat 
as an accompaniment to large asparagus boiled 
in salted water. 



VEGETABLES 99 

ENDIVES POCHEES MEUNIERE 

This useful vegetable is with us for many 
months of the year ; it is equally delightful raw 
en salade or cooked either au jus or nature or 
maitre dhotel. It is better still done in the 
following manner, which must be scrupulously 
followed if complete success is desired : remove 
the outside leaves and wash the endives in cold 
water, put them flat in a fireproof dish with 
boiling water only up to a third of their height, 
add a little salt, the juice of a lemon and a small 
piece of butter. Cook them for a few minutes 
and cover them with a buttered paper the same 
size as the dish, and go on cooking slowly till 
they are tender. Drain them well and cook them 
in butter in a frying pan. They should be golden 
but not brown. See that they are well seasoned, 
add a little more lemon juice if you like, and 
serve very hot. I should like to say once more 
that the endives for which this recipe is given 
are the real endives, the large white kind, usually 
called by English greengrocers " chicory " or 
" Belgian endives." 



ENDIVES AU GRATIN 

Having boiled your endives as described above, 
put them in a fireproof dish, sprinkle with salt 
and lemon juice and cover them with a Bechamel 
sauce in which has been incorporated during 
the cooking grated cheese. Sprinkle with a 
good deal of grated cheese and brown in the 
oven. 



100 A SECOND HELPING 

SOUFFLE DE POTIRON 

Pumpkin Souffle 

Pumpkin — which is used by fairies to make 
coaches for Cinderellas and by the French 
peasants for soups — is, if properly treated, a 
delicious vegetable ; en souffle it is at its best. 
Take a pound of pumpkin, peel and clean it and 
put it in a saucepan with a tumblerful of salted 
water ; cook it for half an hour on a moderate 
fire, after which drain it well and mash it through 
a fine sieve. Add little by little about two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and a glass of milk ; mix well, 
and add to the mixture first about one ounce of 
butter and three tablespoonfuls of castor sugar 
(or more, according to taste), then the yolks of 
two eggs mixed with two teaspoonsfuls of kirsch 
(or brand}'), and last the two whites well whipped. 
Put the mixture in a well-buttered fireproof dish, 
sprinkle with sugar and cook in a moderate oven 
for about twenty minutes. Serve immediately. 

POTIRON GRATINE AU LARD 

Take four large slices of pumpkin, peel them, 
and carefully scrape away all the pips. Then 
boil the vegetable in water with plenty of salt. 
When cooked, remove it, draining off all the 
water and drying it in front of the fire. Then 
mash it well, adding pepper, and more salt if 
necessary. Meanwhile, some thin rashers of 
streaky bacon should have been crisply fried and 
broken into little pieces. When these ingredients 
are prepared, take a well-buttered fireproof dish 
and fill it with alternate layers of pumpkin and 
pieces of bacon. Pour over the dish the fat 



VEGETABLES loi 

obtained from frying the bacon, and sprinkle 
with breadcrumbs. Bake in a quick oven until 
nicely browned. 

COURGES FARCIES 

Stuffed Marrow 

Cut the marrows in half (the small green ones 
are better for this dish) and boil them in salted 
water until they are quite tender. Meanwhile 
the following mixture should have been prepared. 
Fry one or two tomatoes in butter and mash 
them with some grated cheese, a cupful of pork 
sausage meat, salt and pepper. Stir well and 
stuff the marrows with the mixture, then sprinkle 
them with breadcrumbs, add a few little pieces 
of butter, and bake them in a quick oven until 
nicely browned. 

CONCOMBRES 

Cucumbers 

Cucumbers are delicious when properly cooked. 
They should be cut in four or six pieces, peeled, 
cooked in hot water with salt and a little vinegar 
for about ten or fifteen minutes, and served with 
either a sauce a la poulette or maitre d'hotel 
(chopped parsley cooked with butter and lemon 
juice). They are very good cut in thin slices 
and fried. 

CONCOMBRES AU JUS 

Peel and cut the cucumbers as above, place 
them raw in a dish, sprinkle them with salt and 
add a few slices of onion. An hour later remove 



102 A SECOND HELPING 

the onions and drain the cucumbers, which you 
place in a saucepan over a bed of fat bacon, on a 
slow fire. Meanwhile, make a brown roux (flour 
and butter cooked as above but to the browning 
point, and the addition of stock and a little tomato 
sauce instead of water or milk), pour this over 
the cucumbers which should be cooked about 
half an hour on a slow fire. Serve the sauce, 
passed through a sieve, over the cucumbers. 

CONCOMBRES AU BLANC 

Take some cucumbers, peel them, cut them in 
two and remove the seeds, then cut them in 
pieces about two inches long and cook them in 
boiling water (with salt and a little wine vinegar) 
for about one hour. Drain them well and be 
careful not to break them. Put in a saucepan a 
good piece of butter and a tablespoonful of flour; 
cook a few minutes, stirring well with a wooden 
spoon ; add a glass of boiling water, salt and 
pepper, and boil this a few minutes till the sauce 
is the proper consistency, put in the pieces of 
cucumber, chopped parsley, a drop of lemon, 
bind with two yolks of eggs and serve at once. 
Some people use milk instead of water, and the 
addition of fresh cream at the last minute is very 
pleasant, though not necessary. 

CONCOMBRES FARCIS 

Peel some cucumbers, cut them in two or three 
pieces according to size, scoop out the inside, 
which you fill with a mixture made of a little 
cucumber flesh, one onion, one rasher of bacon, 



VEGETABLES 103 

a few mushrooms, one tomato, breadcrumbs, salt 
and pepper, all finely chopped together and 
cooked in butter. Place the cucumbers on a bed 
of bacon rind, onions and tomatoes in a fireproof 
dish, add meat stock, and cook on a moderate 
fire, finishing in the oven. Serve when the flesh 
is soft in an entree dish, and pour over them the 
gravy through a sieve. 

FARCE AUX MARRONS 

Chestnut Stuffing 

This stuffing is remarkably good for roast 
goose or duck. Take a quarter of a pound of 
onions, cut them in thin slices and cook them 
slowly in pork fat or butter till golden brown. 
Peel about a pound of chestnuts (both skins 
should be carefully removed), add them to the 
onions, also salt, pepper and a little more fat or 
butter. Cook very slowly till the chestnuts are 
reduced to a pulp and stir well before stuffing 
the bird. 

AUBERGINES FRITES 

This vegetable is not as well known in England 
as it is in other countries, though it can be 
obtained in London. In France the " aubergine " 
is a favourite vegetable, as it also is in tropical 
countries, where it is generally known as the 
"garden egg." The following recipe is one of 
the best methods of cooking the egg plant : — 

Remove the skin and cut the vegetable into 
very thin slices. Then prepare a batter as 
follows : Beat together two eggs and add half a 
teacupful of flour. Mix well so that the paste is 



104 A SECOND HELPING 

quite smooth, and add salt and pepper. Dip 
each slice of egg plant in the batter and fry in 
boiling lard until each fritter is brown and crisp. 
Serve very hot. 

AUBERGINES SAUT£ES. I 

This is a pleasant change from the classical 
stuffed aubergines or the plain fried ones. Cut 
them in thin slices, sprinkle them with salt and 
leave them on a plate for an hour or so. This 
will bring out the water they contain. Drain 
them well, fry them in a mixture of oil and pork 
fat, and keep them hot. Then cut a few tomatoes 
in quarters, fry them in very little of the same 
mixture, till soft, pass through a sieve and pour 
the sauce thus obtained over your aubergines. 
Cook the whole a few minutes longer, add pepper 
(more salt will not be necessary) and serve very 
hot. 

AUBERGINES SAUTEES. II 

Clean them, and cut them into pieces about 
two inches thick. Put a teacupful of olive oil in 
a frying pan, warm it, and put in the t%g plant : 
fry them until they are a golden colour, and add 
a shallot, some parsley, and a tablespoonful of 
breadcrumbs. Let this fry for two or three 
minutes more, shaking the pan all the time. 

S0UFFL£ DE ponds D'ARTICHAUTS 

Take about half a dozen artichokes (according 
to the size), remove all leaves, and leave only 
the heart, put them in cold water with a pinch of 



VEGETABLES 105 

salt and what is known as "a drop" of wine 
vinegar, bring to the boil, and cook about ten 
minutes. Drain them well, and finish cooking 
them in good beef stock. (They must be well 
cooked.) Drain again and pass them through a 
fine sieve. Put them in a saucepan with a little 
bechamel sauce, salt and pepper, a small piece of 
butter, a little grated nutmeg and a tablespoonful 
of cream. Add to this the whites of three eggs 
whipped to a stiff froth and slightly salted, put 
the mixture in a souffle dish, and bake like any 
other souffle — that is, about sixteen minutes. 
Serve at once. 

This dish could also be made with the other 
artichokes so dear to English households : I 
mean the ones which have no connection either 
with artichokes or with Jerusalem. But of course 
it would not compare with the real article. 

ARTICHAUTS A LA BARIGOULE 

Take some artichokes, cut olT three-quarters 
of the leaves and remove the smaller ones which 
are near the stalk. Put them in boiling water 
and cook them about ten minutes. Remove them 
and dip them in cold water. Then remove all 
the inside, leaving only the heart and the outer 
circles of leaves, and fill them with a mixture 
prepared as follows : — 

Put in a saucepan one onion, one shallot and a 
few mushrooms very finely chopped, a piece of 
butter the size of a small t.gg, a little olive oil 
and cook on a moderate fire about ten minutes ; 
then add parsley and a rasher of bacon chopped 
together, salt and pepper, a "drop" of white 



io6 A SECOND HELPING 

wine, a tablespoonful of beef stock, a teaspoonful 
of puree of tomatoes. 

Fill the artichokes with this mixture; place 
over each a very thin rasher of bacon and tie 
them with some thread. 

Put in a fireproof dish pieces of carrots and 
onions, one bay leaf, and whatever scraps of meat 
and small bones you have by 3'ou ; add a table- 
spoonful of beef stock. Place your artichokes on 
this bed and bring to the boil, keeping the dish 
covered. Put it aside a few minutes, remove the 
lid, baste the artichokes, cover them with oiled 
paper and finish cooking in a moderate oven, 
basting occasionally. 

When ready, remove the strings and bacon. 
Serve the artichokes covered with gravy obtained 
by squashing through a sieve all the ingredients 
in which they have cooked. 

I should like to add that this dish — which dates 
from the end of the XVlIIth century — is far 
more complicated to describe than to make ; in 
any case, it is well worth the trouble. 

MALTESE CURRY 

This is a dish for those who like onions, 
though when perfectly prepared the flavour of 
these is so blended with the other things that 
the existence of the onions is almost undiscover- 
able. Peel one pound and a half of onions and 
one pound of tomatoes. First fry the onions, 
cut in pieces, until well browned, in bacon fat — 
no other fat will produce the desired flavour — 
then add the tomatoes. When thoroughly 
cooked add salt and pepper and two or three 



VEGETABLES 107 

tablespoonfuls of curry powder. Mix it all well 
together and add a cupful of water. Cook 
slowly for one hour and a half. (It is a dry 
curr}'; there should be no liquid at the end 
of the cooking). Add one peach, two apricots 
cut in slices (or apples, or bananas) one or two 
sweet peppers if you like, and half an ounce of 
castor sugar. Cook quickly for ten minutes. 
If too dry add a little cream or milk, and just 
before serving break in three or four eggs and 
mix well with the curry, stirring very quickly 
so that there is no visible sign of the eggs in 
the dish. 

The result is a rich brown curry, at the same 
time hot and sweet, dry and soft, and better than 
any curry you can get in India or anywhere 
else.^ 

SALADE RHENANE 

This salad is usually served as hoi's cfcettvre. 
Chop together : two smoked fillets of herring, 
two cold boiled potatoes, one apple, a slice of 
roast veal or the wing of a roast chicken (also 
cold), a piece of beetroot, the heart of a lettuce, 
two or three gherkins and a few capers. Season 
with olive oil, red wine vinegar, salt and freshly 
ground pepper. 

SALADE DE CONCOMBRES AUX (EUFS 
DURS 

Take a good sized cucumber, peel it, cut it in 
very thin slices and put them in a flat dish ; 
sprinkle with a good deal of salt and let it rest 

I. So people tell me. I have never tasted real Indian curry — 
except in London. 



io8 A SECOND HELPING 

for about one hour and a half. The salt draws 
the moisture out of the cucumber, making it 
tender and digestible. Throw away the water 
which has come out and wash the slices of 
cucumber in water, otherwise they are likely to 
be too salt. Then dry them. 

By then your hard-boiled eggs should be 
ready; that is, cooked and cold. (Do not 
forget after they have been boiled to put them 
in cold water, otherwise the shell will be difficult 
to remove). Cut them in quarters and put aside 
two-thirds of the yolks ; these you crush with a 
fork and add to the salad dressing, which should 
be made as follows : melt the salt in the vinegar 
(red wine vinegar, of course), add pepper, oil 
(the best olive oil, of course) in the proportion 
of three tablespoonfuls of oil to two of vinegar. 
Beat all this well with the cucumber and hard- 
boiled eggs. Put the mixture in a salad bowl 
and dispose round it the white leaves from the 
hearts of several lettuces, over which you 
squeeze a little juice out of a lemon. 

It should be rememberd that the lettuce, 
having been well washed, must be equally well 
dried. Many good salads are spoilt by leaving 
the leaves wet with water. The best way is to 
use the wire basket specially made for that 
purpose ; or failing that, shake the leaves lightly 
in a thin dry cloth. 

SALADE DE POMMES AUX (EUFS DURS 

Boil, in their skins, about one pound of 
potatoes. It is essential to use the long yellow 
kind known as Dutch potatoes, the ordinary ones 



VEGETABLES 109 

being too floury for salad. Peel them and let 
them get cold. Also have some hard-boiled 
eggs, four being a good proportion for a pound 
of potatoes. Make the dressing as follows: salt 
and pepper, two tablespoonsfuls of wine vinegar, 
three and a half of best olive oil, chopped chervil 
and chives. Pound the yolks in this dressing, 
cut the whites in small pieces, the potatoes in 
thin slices and mix well. You can vary this 
salad a I'infini by adding chopped gherkins, fillets 
of anchovy, spring onions, cucumber or cold 
asparagus tips ; but any kind of green salad 
should be avoided, as it would get withered and 
yellow. 

POMMES EN SALADE 

Peel and remove the cores from as many 
apples as may be required, and cut them into 
slices about half an inch thick. Then shell half 
a pound of whatever nuts are in season and chop 
them into little pieces. Add a little chopped 
onion and parsley, and mix altogether with some 
pepper. Place in a salad bowl and pour over a 
mayonnaise sauce. 

SALADE DE PISSENLIT AUX 
BETTERAVES 
If you hare a garden you can easily grow 
dandelions. In fact you cannot help their 
growing. Cover them with a flat stone or a 
tile and they will get beautifully white. If you 
have not got a garden you can buy them in odd 
shops in London. Use only the hearts, add 
about same quantity of beetroot and dress with 



no A SECOND HELPING 

plain oil and vinegar, salt and pepper. It is really 
a very good winter salad, though it is not much 
thought of in England. 

I have the evidence in front of me; overpower- 
ing, laconical, badly printed evidence ; not the 
evidence of scientific books or literary treatises, 
but that of two unbiassed popular dictionaries. I 
have looked up the same plant in both languages, 
" pissenlit" which is in English " dandelion." The 
French dictionary, true to the racial character- 
istics says : ^^ genre de composees qui se mangent 
en salade'' ; but the English work, sharply 
and scornfully brushes aside the dandelion ; " a 
common plant with a yellow flower." 



SWEETS AND JAMS in 



SWEETS AND JAMS 

SWEETS 

Sweets are a comparatively modern invention. 
*' Our ancestors sweetened and garnished all 
with Honey, of which there are some remains : 
In Windsor Bowls, Baron Brack and large simnels 
sent for presents from Lichfield." In the treatise 
of ApiciusCielius, probably the earliest work on 
cookery known (and what we have of it is as 
apocryphal as parts of the " Satyricon ") according 
to Dr. Lister, " medecin Gourmand d' une reine 
Gourmande"^ and commentator of Apicius, the 
fifth book "is of Pease Porridge, under which 
are included Frumentary, Watergruel, Milk 
Porridge, Flumary, Stirabout and the like," 
which seems a very dull collection of sweets. 
Though it may be said that sweets are apt to be 
dull unless they are of a complication which is 
even worse than dullness. Puzzles are out of 
place at the dinner table and the choice of a 
sweet is conducive to extreme perplexity. 

All the following are of the simplest kind, and 
I have purposely refrained from including in this 
chapter any of those dishes of unrecognisable 
flavour which look like an imitation of something 
else, and these terribly strenuous /(i^c^s montees 
complicated, marvellous, awe-inspiring, jellified 

I. Queen Ann. 



112 A SECOND HELPING 

and crystallised, which are as difficult to make as 
they are to eat. 

COMPOTE DE POMMES A L'ANANAS 
Compote of Apples 
Peel and cut your apples in quarters in the 
ordinary way and cook them in cold water, the 
proportions to be about two pounds of apples, a 
tumblerful of water and a handful of lump sugar 
(more if the apples are very sour) to four or five 
people. By the time they are quite soft there 
should be very little water left, if any ; add a 
piece of butter the size of an egg, and cook a few 
minutes more. Then remove the compote from 
the fire, add two tablespoonfuls of pineapple jam, 
mix well and put the mixture in a serving dish. 
Serve very cold. 

COMPOTE DE POMMES AU CARAMEL 
Peel and cut in quarters some cooking apples 
and cook them in a tumblerful of water with half 
a vanilla pod, and about a quarter of a pound of 
sugar. When they are reduced to a pulp, add a 
good piece of butter, a tablespoonful of apricot 
jam, remove the vanilla pod (which can be washed 
in cold water and used again several times), and 
let the compote cool in a dish. Melt some sugar 
in a small saucepan till it becomes caramel, add a 
little water and pour it over the apples so as to 
cover the whole surface. Serve very cold. 

COMPOTE DE POMMES AUX MARRONS 

Prepare the apples as above, and when cold 

add three tablespoonfuls of chestnut jam or (if 



SWEETS AND JAMS 113 

this is not available) one pound of steamed 
chestnuts mashed through a sieve. Mix well. 
Whipped cream flavoured with vanilla or orange 
goes well with this. 

POMMES A LA NEIGE 

Take some good eating apples, peel them, put 
them into a fireproof dish with sugar, a little 
water, and a piece of butter. Cook them in the 
oven until they are soft. Then add a little kirsch 
and let the apples cool. Beat the whites of four 
eggs until very stiff, adding sugar and some 
whipped cream, and cover the apples with this 
mixture. Sprinkle with soft white sugar and 
serve. 

POIRES AU FOUR 
Baked Pears 

Take some fine sound pears, wash them, put 
them whole in a fireproof dish — they should 
stand in about half an inch of sugared water, and 
cook them very slowly in the oven until they are 
quite soft. By that time they will look quite 
" bloated " and just a little shrivelled after a few 
minutes exposure to the air. 

Take also another pear, peel it, cut it in 
quarters, and cook it in water to which you have 
added a sufficiency of sugar so that it becomes a 
thick syrup when cold. When the water is 
sufficiently reduced and flavoured, add a sherry 
glass of Cointreau or Grand Marnier and cook it 
a little more. Then pour the syrup through a 
muslin over your pears, mix it well with what- 
ever juice may be already in the dish, put back 



114 A SECOND HELPING 

in the oven for a few minutes, and put away to 
cool. Serve quite cold. 

It is also very pleasant to put in, instead of 
liqueur, a portglassful of good claret. 

P£CHES BARBARA 

Peaches 

Take some fine peaches, peel them, cut them 
in half, and cook them in water and sugar (and 
half a vanilla pod) till they are soft. The water 
should just cover them. When they are cooked, 
remove them, add a liqueur glassful of Grand 
Marnier to the juice, and go on cooking it till it 
is reduced to the consistency of thick syrup. 
Then remove the vanilla pod and let the syrup 
get tepid. 

Dispose the peaches in a hollow dish all round, 
and fill the centre with tomato jam, pour over the 
peaches the syrup, and " drape " them with cream 
flavoured with eau-de-vie de frambotses (or kirsch- 
wasser), whipped to a stiff froth, and sprinkle 
over the cream crushed pistachio nuts. 

The whipped cream to be done in the follow- 
ing manner : First beat a white of egg, then add 
fresh cream (about one shillingsworth for four 
people), whip till stiff, add the flavouring, whip 
a little more, then, and only then, add the castor 
sugar ; mix it well in but do not whip any more. 
Let the mixture rest half-an-hour in a cool place ; 
dispose it over the peaches, sprinkle with the 
crushed nuts, and keep on ice till wanted. If 
you have no tomato jam (which seems incredible) 
you may use quince jelly. You can treat pears 
in the same way. 



SWEETS AND JAMS 115 

MARMELADE DE PRUNEAUX 
Soak the prunes for twenty-four hours in 
water, then put them in a saucepan with cold 
water, bring to the boil, and cook for a few 
minutes. Throw away about half the water, and 
add about a pint of claret, sugar and half a vanilla 
pod. Cook very slowl}' for about two hours. 
Then remove the stones, pass the prunes through 
a fine sieve, and add some of the sj^rup so that 
the marmalade has the right consistenc3\ Put 
it in a deep dish, stand it on ice for at least one 
hour, and serv^e very cold. This sweet is very 
easy to make, quite cheap (the claret need not be 
a fine vintage), and really delicious. You can 
serve with it either whipped cream or French 
" biscuits a ta cuiller,'' or both. 

CROUTE AUX FRUITS 
This pleasant dish is easy to make and very 
effective. It can be simplified by buying the 
brioche ready made at one of the many French 
patisseries in town ; I am, however, giving the 
recipe for the brioche itself, as it seems a pity not 
to have it home-made in a country where most 
cooks make quite exceptionally good pastry. 

First stew some apples in very little water, and 
sugar, till reduced to a pulp ; also stew some 
pears cored and cut in halves in water flavoured 
with half a vanilla pod till they are soft (they 
should keep their shape) ; also chop very fine a 
few slices of pineapple. Mix together the 
chopped pineapple, the mashed apples, a table- 
spoonful of apricot jam, castor sugar, and add a 
port-glassful of good brandy. Fry slices of 
brioche in butter till they are nicely browned and 



ii6 A SECOND HELPING 

crisp ; put them standing up all round a souffle 
dish ; fill it half way up with your mashed fruit ; 
dispose the pears over it; sprinkle freely with 
castor sugar, add a few breadcrumbs and brown 
in the oven. It should be served flambe with 
brandy. It is, by the way, advisable in these 
days of 30 under proof spirits to warm the brandy 
before lighting it, otherwise it may not burn — a 
tragic failure on the dining table. 

Brioche. — To make the batter for the necessary 
brioche, use, say, one pound of flour and pass it 
through a fine sieve, take a quarter of it and 
make a heap on the board ; melt, in the middle, 
a small quantity of yeast with lukewarm water ; 
mix it gradually with the flour, adding water if 
necessary, so as to make a fairly firm mixture. 
Put it aside in a bowl, and keep it fairly warm. 

Work the rest of the pound of flour with a 
pinch of salt, two of sugar, a quarter of a pound 
of butter (well worked) and six eggs. Mix and 
beat this well for about twenty minutes on the 
board. Flatten it, add the quarter of pound 
previously put aside, and put the whole thing 
away in a bowl sprinkled with flour ; keep it at 
the same slightly warm temperature for six or 
seven hours ; it should rise to double its original 
size. Then put it once more on the board, work 
it a little while, let it rest a few minutes, and 
bake your brioche in a very hot oven, the crown 
shape being the best for your purpose. 

TARTELETTES BRETONNES 

Line some little tins with pastry of the "short " 
kind, and fill them with the following mixture : 



SWEETS AND JAMS 117 

About twelve small potatoes freshly boiled and 
well mashed, and some sugar and a little milk to 
bind ; then bake the tartelettes in a quick oven, 
and when they are cool paint them all over the 
top with whatever jam you may have. 

GALETTES DE BLE NOIR 
This dish is a great favourite both with the 
Bretons and with Americans, and I understand 
that the recipe for " buckwheat cakes " is very 
similar to the one for ** gaieties de ble notr." You 
mix in equal quantities, more or less, water milk 
and buckwheat flour and work it well together. 
Cook it in a frying pan as you do an ordinary 
pancake and serve it very hot with butter and 
sugar. The pancake should be fairly thin and 
the batter the consistency of thin cream. 

FAR LORIENTAIS 

This very simple entremets de famille is almost 
unknown and only made in that part of Brittany 
which lies between Quimper and Lorient. 
Although simple, it is considered rather difficult 
to make, but success is certain if these instructions 
are faithfully followed and if the milk is really 
hot and the oven kept very slow. 

All that is wanted for four to six persons is : 
A pint and a third of milk, a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, a quarter of a pound of flour and two 
eggs. Mix together the flour, the sugar and the 
eggs till the mixture is absolutely smooth, and 
add little by little, stirring all the time, the milk, 
which must be almost boiling. Pour this on a 
buttered fireproof dish, (neither too deep nor too 



ii8 A SECOND HELPING 

flat), and put in a few fine raisins, or if you prefer, 
fat prunes, sliced and stoned. Cook in a very 
slow oven for one hour or a little more. 

Is it necessary to add that the Bretons who 
use raisins think that their neighbours, who use 
prunes, do not know what cooking is and vice 
versa. This is as it should be, if one has any 
pride in one's cooking. 

KANOUGA 

Weigh two eggs in their shells, then have the 
same weight of sugar, of butter, and of grated 
chocolate. Melt the chocolate over the fire with 
very little water, then add in turn : the butter, 
the sugar, a tablespoonful of flour, the yolks of 
six eggs and their whites well whipped. Mix 
well and pour the mixture in a plain mould well 
buttered and cook au bain-marie for two hours 
and a half. It is preferable to prepare this sweet 
the day before and to keep it, in the mould, in a 
cool place. Serve either with whipped cream or 
with a rather thin custard flavoured with vanilla. 

ILK FLOTTANTE 

Take four eggs, beat the whites to a stiff froth, 
add four tablespoonfuls of castor sugar, put this 
in a tin mould previously coated with caramel 
and cook in the oven, au bain-marie, about twenty 
minutes. Make a liquid custard by boiling some 
milk flavoured with vanilla and sweetened, and 
adding the yolks, cooking on a slow fire till it 
thickens. Turn the whites out of the mould in a 
hollow dish, and pour the custard round it. 



SWEETS AND JAMS 119 

GATEAU AUX PISTACHES 

First make a boiled custard slightly thicker 
than usual and flavour it with vanilla. Then 
work together in a bowl a quarter of a pound 
each of crushed pistachio nuts, butter, and soft 
sugar. Pour in the custard gradually, and stir 
well so that the ingredients are thoroughly mixed. 
Line a mould with thin sponge biscuits, and pour 
in the mixture ; cover with more biscuits, put a 
weight on top, and place the mould in ice for an 
hour or so. It should be served very cold. 

FRITTATA 
One does not as a rule find many sweets in 
Malta, but this one, which is very popular with 
the Maltese, is a delightful and novel rendering 
of our " fritters," First make a batter with the 
following : Two ounces of flour, a quarter of a 
pound of butter, three ounces of coarse brown 
sugar, the yolks of four eggs, two liqueur glasses 
of brandy, half a pint of milk, and one table- 
spoonful of tomato jam. Mix well until the 
batter has reached the consistency of pancake 
batter. Then fry each frittata — half a teacup of 
batter for each — until very crisp. Drain off the 
fat well and sprinkle with brown sugar. Serve 
cold. They are especially delicious served with 
Devonshire cream. 

TARTE PORTUGAISE 

For this tart the pastry must be "short." 
When you have made your paste, cover the 
bottom and sides of a thin dish with it, having, 
of course, first buttered the dish. Put the dish 



I20 A SECOND HELPING 

in the oven and bake until the pastry is half 
cooked. Meanwhile, prepare the following mix- 
ture : Take a quarter of a pound of ground rice, 
one ounce of powdered almonds, three ounces 
of soft white sugar, and mix them together with 
a little milk. Then break in two eggs and stir 
vigorously until the mixture is quite smooth, 
when it is ready to be spread over the pastry. 
Sprinkle with a few chopped almonds and bake 
in a quiet oven for ten to fifteen minutes. 

GATEAUX DE POMMES DE TERRE 

For these little cakes one may use any freshly 
boiled potatoes which are left over. Mash the 
potatoes, adding a little flour, a pinch of salt and 
some coarse brown sugar, using a quarter of a 
pound of sugar to one pound of potatoes. Then 
add a handful of sultanas and some chopped 
candied peel. Mix well and moisten with a 
little milk. Roll lightly with a rolling-pin and 
form into little cakes. Place these on a well- 
buttered dish and bake in a moderate oven until 
the cakes are well browned. Serve very hot 
with cream. 

GALETTES AU RIZ 

First make a batter as you would for pancakes, 
but a little thicker. Then mix in some rice 
cooked in milk and water, and sweeten to taste. 
Have ready some boiling lard in a frying-pan, 
and pour into it one spoonful at a time, cooking 
each little cake separately- until it is nicely 
browned. Sprinkle them with soft sugar, and 
serve very hot and at once. 



SWEETS AND JAMS 121 

GATEAU DE RIZ EN MOULE 

Put a quarter of a pound of well-cleaned rice 
in a saucepan with half a pint of milk, a quarter 
of a pound of sugar, and the grated rind of an 
orange. Boil slowly until the rice is soft. Then 
add two beaten eggs, stirring hard. Take a 
well-buttered mould and cover the bottom with 
grated toast. Pour the rice mixture into this 
and cook au bain-marie for three-quarters of an 
hour. Allow the mould to cool a little, and then 
turn the contents into a dish. 

TIMBALES DE RIZ AUX FRUITS 

Cook some rice first in water, then add milk, 
sugar, and half a vanilla pod. When cold, add 
two eggs well beaten and mix them well with 
the rice, remove the vanilla pod and put a layer 
of rice in little souffle dishes (previously buttered) 
and then a layer of fruit ; slices of pears cooked 
in claret, a few brandied cherries (stoned) or any 
other cooked fruit you may have, another layer 
of rice, and sprinkle castor sugar on the top. 
Cook in the oven. It should be set, yet creamy 
and well flavoured ; it should not remind one of 
a nursery pudding. 

GATEAU AU CHOCOLAT 

The ingredients required for this simple sweet 
are : a quarter of a pound of grated chocolate, a 
quarter of a pound of castor sugar, two ounces 
of ground almonds, two ounces of butter, one 
ounce of flour and three eggs. The mould should 
be of the crown kind. Put the butter in a basin 



122 A SECOND HELPING 

and stir it till it becomes frothy, then add, in 
turn, first the yolks of the eggs, then the other 
ingredients, finishing by the whites whipped to a 
stiff froth. Butter some paper, put it in the 
mould, pour in the mixture and cook in a slow 
oven for about three-quarters of an hour. 

LAIT CUIT A LA CREME 
Fill a fireproof saucepan with milk and leave 
it about three days without even touching it ; 
then skim it, cut it in square pieces (it has then 
the consistency of junket) and cook it on a very 
little fire for about two hours so that it does not 
get really hot. Let it get cold, put in a hollow 
dish and cover it with a mixture of cream and 
milk. This laitage, which does not seem to be 
very well known, has a rather special taste, and 
those who like it like it very much. As for those 
who do not . . . 

PAIN DE GENES 
This excellent cake will be useful either for 
tea or served with a creme. Peel half a pound of 
almonds (and five or six bitter ones), pound them 
well ; add four eggs, one at a time, mix ; then 
two tablespoonsfuls of ground rice, a piece of 
butter the size of an ^gg (it is advisable to cut it 
in small pieces) and about three tablespoonsfuls 
of castor sugar ; mix well together, add a sherry- 
glassful of kirschwasser and mix well again. 
Prepare a tin lined with buttered paper — the flat 
kind for open tarts being the best shape — put in 
your batter and cook it in a hot oven for about 
twenty-five minutes ; let it get cold before you 
take it out of the tin. 



SWEETS AND JAMS 123 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

Make a shortcake in the ordinary way, a little 
less than two inches thick, and, before it is quite 
cold, break it gently in two. Then mash the 
strawberries with a fork, add sufficient sugar and 
some Devonshire cream (about a quarter of a 
pound to a pound of strawberries), and mix well. 
Spread some of the mixture over the first layer 
of shortcake, put over this the second half of the 
cake, and cover the top with more of the mixture. 

(EUFS A LA REINE 

For one pint of milk take six eggs, break them, 
and separate the yolks from the whites. Beat 
up the yolks and stir in the milk, adding sufficient 
soft white sugar. Pour this into a well-buttered 
souffle dish and bake in a very slow oven until 
the eggs and milk have set. Meanwhile, the 
whites should have been whisked until very stiff 
with a little soft sugar. Pour over the set yolks 
and milk a glass of good sherry, allowing a few 
minutes for this to soak in. Then spread over 
the whisked whites and brown in a quicker part 
of the oven. 

PLUM FOOL 

This is an excellent method of making use of 
any stewed fruit which may have been left over, 
and is very good when made with plums. 

Remove the stones from the cold, stewed 
plums, and then pass the fruit through a sieve 
into a dish. Add sufficient soft sugar, and then 
stir in some cream. The proportions should be 
a half quantity of cream to one of the fruit. Stir 



124 A SECOND HELPING 

well until the fruit and cream are thoroughly 
mixed. A little sherry or maraschino added will 
give a delightful flavour. 

SALADE D'ORANGES 
Take some of the freshest oranges you can get. 
Halve them and scoop out the insides. Carefully 
remove the pips and stringy parts and put the 
remainder in a mixing bowl. Then add some 
crushed strawberries and a few cherries. Mix 
with sufficient soft sugar and, if you like, a little 
maraschino. Fill each of the orange skins with 
the mixture and place on ice before serving. 

SALADE D'ANANAS. I 
Get a good-sized pineapple, as ripe as it is 
possible to get in England, and scoop out the flesh 
with a silver knife and fork ; also cut in small 
quarters two grapefruit, being careful there is 
none of the inner skin left. Sprinkle with sugar 
and pour over it a port glassful of maraschino. 
Let it stand for at least half an hour on ice in a 
a hollow dish. You should, of course, be careful 
not to waste the juice which has come out of the 
fruits during the initial operation. 

Serve well covered with the following crenie 
fouettee : fresh cream, to which you have added 
castor sugar and maraschino whipped to a stiff 
consistency. This should be served very cold 
and, as Brillat-Savarin says when describing a 
dish, "ow verra merveilles." 

SALADE D'ANANAS. II 
The following fruits only should be used in 
this salad, the great point of which lies in the 



SWEETS AND JAMS 125 

blending of flavours : one medium-sized pine- 
apple, three oranges, four bananas, the juice of 
half a lemon. 

Scoop out the inside of the pineapple pulp with 
a silver fork. Peel the bananas and oranges, 
removing the pips and inner skins of the latter. 
Mash these also and mix with the pineapple. 
Take the kernel of a very small cocoanut and 
chop fine — do not use desicated cocoanut — and 
stir with the fruit until all is thoroughly mixed. 
Add two tablespoonfuls of soft white sugar and 
the juice of the lemon. Stir lightly with a fork. 
Place in a glass dish and pack in ice for two 
hours before serving. 

ANANAS GLAC£ 

Take a fine ripe pineapple and cut the top off, 
about two inches from the little trimming of 
leaves ; scoop out all the flesh as neatly as 
possible, remove the hard parts, mix it with 
castor sugar and a portglassful of either kirsch- 
wasser or rum, or maraschino, according to taste, 
and put the mixture back in the pineapple, not 
forgetting to cut a slice off the bottom so that it 
can stand properly when you serve it. The 
pineapple should then remain about two hours, 
wrapped up in ice, with its top on. 

PRAISES A LA CREME AU KIRSCH 

This is the best of all the delightful ways of 
serving strawberries. Take a pound of straw- 
berries, clean them and cut them in two with a 
silver or ivory knife (the look of the dish is not 
at all spoilt by this process, and the fruit gets 



126 A SECOND HELPING 

more evenly sweetened). Also get some cream 
and whip it well, add sugar, a liqueur glassful of 
kirsch, half a dozen squashed strawberries, which 
will give the cream a pale pink colouring, and 
whip again. Sprinkle the strawberries with 
more sugar, and mix well with the whipped 
cream. Stand the dish on ice for about one hour 
before serving. 

FRAISES XENIA 

Take a bottle of strawberries in brandy and 
also one pound of fresh strav.'^berries ; mash the 
latter with a fork, and put them in a dish, pouring 
over one half of the juice from the preserved fruit. 
Whip half a pint of cream with the white of an 
egg, add sugar and the rest of the juice, mixing 
lightly. Cover the mashed strawberries with 
this cream, and decorate it with the brandy 
strawberries. Place the dish on ice for two 
hours before it is to be eaten, and serve with 
gaufrettes. 

BANANES AUX FRAMBOISES 

For this sweet, use six of the small Canary 
bananas, peel them, and cut each into four parts. 
Place them in a glass bowl and serve with the 
following cream poured over : Mash half a pound 
of raspberries into a pulp, adding sufficient soft 
white sugar. Then whip half a pint of cream 
and mix with the raspberries. This sweet can 
also be served in the winter, when you can 
substitute your own home-made raspberry 
" preserve " for the fruit itself 



SWEETS AND JAMS lay 

BANANES AU RHUM 
Cut the bananas in slices, soak them in rum 
for one hour, put them in a well buttered fire- 
proof dish, pour the rum over, sprinkle with 
sugar, stir lightly with a fork and bake in a 
moderate oven for twenty minutes. Serve hot 
or cold. 

BANANES CREOLE 
Put in half a pint of milk about eight lumps of 
sugar and bring to the boil ; when cold stir in 
the yolks of two eggs. Peel six bananas and 
scoop out the flesh of two sweet oranges (the 
pith and skin having been carefully removed) 
mash this together, add a little castor sugar, and 
beat it well with a fork till foamy. Then add it 
to the milk, and add last, the whites whipped to 
froth. All this to be put in a sou^e dish, baked 
an bain-marie till set and brown, and served at 
once. 

BEIGNETS D'ORANGE 
Cut the fruit in slices and remove the pips and 
skin from each slice. Have ready some batter 
made as for pancakes, to which one liqueur glass 
of brandy has been added. Then melt some 
butter in an enamelled pan. Put the orange 
slices one at a time into a cup with two table- 
spoonfuls of the batter, pour the contents of the 
cup into the pan, and fry for a few minutes. 
Remove each fritter and let the fat drain off. 
When all the fritters are cooked, put them in a 
chafing dish and flambez them by pouring over 
two tablespoonfuls of brandy and setting light to 
it. Shake the dish so that each fritter has its 
share of the flaming brandy. 



128 A SECOND HELPING 

Serve the fritters immediately the flame has 
died down. They should really be flambe on 
the dinner table. 

S0UFFL£ AUX BANANES 

Make a little bechamel sauce with well- 
sweetened milk perfumed with vanilla, and let it 
get cold ; take four eggs, stir the yolks in, then 
add the whites well whipped and three bananas 
either cut in thin slices (or, better still, made 
into a frothy puree). Put the mixture in a souffle 
dish and cook in the oven like any other souffle, 
about twenty minutes. 

SOUFFL£ A L'ORANGE 

Take four large, sweet oranges, remove the 
skin, pulp and seed, cut them into small pieces 
and put them in a souffle dish, with a tablespoonful 
of soft sugar. Then lightly beat the j'olks of 
four eggs and mix them with the fruit. Add the 
four whites, which should have been beaten to a 
very stiff froth, and stir with a fork. Bake the 
souffle in a quick oven for seven to ten minutes 
and serve immediately with cream. 

SOUFFL£ AU GINGEMBRE 

Take four pieces of preserved ginger about 
the size of a matchbox, chop them finely, and 
place them in a casserole with some of the syrup 
in which they are preserved. Add a tablespoon- 
ful of cream, a piece of butter, and some soft 
white sugar. Let this all cook gently for a few 
minutes, and then remove from the fire. Add 



SWEETS AND JAMS 129 

the yolks of six eggs, beating the mixture with 
a fork, after which let it stand in a cool place for 
three-quarters of an hour. Whip the six whites 
and add them to the mixture, stirring all together 
lightly. Then pour it into a buttered souffle 
dish, slip a thin knife once or twice round the 
inside of the dish and cook in a moderate oven 
for about fifteen minutes, when the souffle should 
have become nicely browned. Sprinkle with 
sugar and serve immediately. 

SOUFFLE CHINOIS 

Chop very fine about two ounces of ginger, 
mix it with two tablespoonfuls of fresh pineapple 
or pineapple jam (or preserved pineapple as a 
last resource). Cook a puddingspoonful of 
ground rice in about half a pint of milk, slowly, 
till it thickens. Add the yolks of four eggs, 
castor sugar and cook a little more, also on a slow 
fire. Let this get cold, then add the mixture of 
ginger and pineapple and the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Cook in a buttered souffle 
dish in the ordinary way. 

All these fruit souffles can be done without 
milk and ground rice, in which case you melt 
the sugar with the fruit and the juice, use more 
whites of eggs and no yolks. 

CREPES SUZETTE 

Put in a basin half a pound of flour, make a 
hole in the middle of the heap, add a pinch of 
salt, a little sugar, three eggs, one after the other, 
a glass of rum, brandy or curacao ; mix well and 



I30 A SECOND HELPING 

add warm water little by little till it is very 
smooth ; let this rest three hours, then add a 
glass of fresh cream, mix well again ; it should 
have the consistency of cream. Your batter is 
ready. 

Put in a frying pan a very small piece of 
butter ; when it is getting brown put in quickly 
a tablespoonful of the batter, move the pan so 
that it covers the whole bottom (it should be very 
thin) and cook on a quick fire, tossing once. 

Melt in a silver dish over a spirit lamp a piece, 
the size of a walnut, of the special butter you 
have prepared beforehand (butter well worked 
with castor sugar and the juice of an orange), 
put in your pancake, a liqueur glassful of brandy 
and one of curacao, set it alight, /lambez your 
pancake well, fold it in four, and serve at once. 

Such is the recipe for this exquisite dish " The 
best in Paris " — to quote Mr. A. B. Walkley — 
" used to be at Paillard's. To a friend who tells 
me they are very good at the St. James's Club, I 
reply : almost thou persuadest me to become a 
diplomatist." ^ 

PETITS POTS DE CR£ME 

These recipes are from an XVIIIth century 
cookery book. Take enough milk to fill eight 
little pots, put in three ounces of sugar and 
whatever flavouring you like, bring it to the boil, 
and let it get cold. Mix well with six yolks (or 
eight, if they are small), and pass it through a 
fine hair sieve. Fill your pots and cook au bain- 

I. I wish M. Boulestin had included a recipe for Crepes Suzetie 
{The Times, 25th July, 1922). Well, here it is now. 



SWEETS AND JAMS 131 

marie in the oven till the creme is set, about 
twenty minutes. You can flavour with all sorts 
of things — coffee, caramel, chocolate, vanilla, 
lemon, violet, pistacchio-nut, orange flowers, 
green tea, etc. You can also make it with plain 
black coffee, in which case it is advisable to pass 
several times through the sieve and to add one 
egg. Another curious way is to boil the coffee 
beans, freshly roasted and unground, with milk 
and cream, and let it grow cold, after which you 
add the eggs, prepare and cook as before. In 
the winter when the price of eggs is high,^ you 
can, if you wish, use less yolks and stir in some 
whites, but never more than two, otherwise the 
cremewould lose that softness which differentiates 
it from ordinary custard. 

OMELETTE AU KUMMEL 

Prepare the omelette in the ordinary way, and 
put in some tomato jam instead of ordinary jam. 
Place the omelette in a hot silver dish, sprinkle 
with sugar, using the rather coarse kind, and 
pass over it a red-hot salamander. Warm some 
kummel, pour it over the omelette, and set it 
alight. Be careful to keep the flame alive by 
stirring it with a spoon, otherwise the flavour of 
kummel will be overpowering ; prick the omelette 
occasionally with a fork. The flame must die 
out naturally in spite of your constantly stirring. 

I. " Eggs is eggs and eggs is dear." J. C. Squire). 



132 A SECOND HELPING 



JAMS 

CONFITURES DE BANANES 

The ingredients required are : one pound of 
ripe bananas, three cups of sweet orange juice, 
juice of one lemon, three quarters of a pound of 
white or brown sugar. Cut the bananas into 
slices one quarter-inch thick, add the sugar and 
the juice of oranges and lemon, boil slowly till it 
thickens and becomes a rich red colour. Care 
must be taken that the mixture does not catch. 

GRAPEFRUIT MARMALADE 
Take about four or five fruit, wash them well 
remove any black marks and take out the core 
and seeds. Do not remove the skin. Slice very 
thin, and to every three pounds of fruit add eight 
pints of water. Let it stand for twenty-four 
hours. Then throw off the water, add the same 
quantity of fresh, and boil till the chips are 
tender. Let it stand another twenty-four hours. 
Then weigh, and to every pound of juice allow 
one pound of granulated sugar. Boil the whole 
till it jellifies, and put in pots. 

CONFITURE DE CITROUILLE. I 
Take some pieces of pumpkin, peel and scrape 
them, removing the seeds ; weigh the pieces. 
Put in a preserving pan half their weight of 



JAMS 133 

sugar and a glass of white wine to each six 
pounds of sugar. Let this rest and melt an 
hour or so and add the pieces of vegetable ; cook 
two hours, stirring well. Then add one orange 
to each pound of sugar (skin and pips removed), 
and cook another hour. Fill your pots. 

CONFITURE DE CITROUILLE. II 
This is another way of making pumpkin jam. 
Cook six good-sized apples in three pints of 
water; press them in a fine cloth and put the 
juice in a jug (there should be about two pints). 
Cook in a saucepan without water or sugar, on a 
very slow fire, two pounds of pumpkin (scraped 
and peeled as before) and add the apple-juice 
little by little. It should be flavoured with either 
vanilla or lemon, according to taste, and cooked 
for at least five hours. 

CONFITURE DE COURGES 
Take some vegetable marrow, remove the skin 
and scrape the inside, cut it in small cubes. Put 
these in a pan, sprinkle with Demerara sugar 
(about one pound of sugar to six pounds of 
marrow) and let it rest a day. The following 
day put the water, which has oozed out, in a stew- 
pan and add three-quarters of a pound of sugar 
to each pint of juice. Put also about one quarter 
of a pound of bruised ginger (tied in a muslin 
bag), one rind of lemon and two ounces of chopped 
candied peel. Boil all this fast for ten minutes, 
then add the cubes and cook slowly for three 
hours. Remove lemon rind and ginger before 
putting the jam in pots. 



134 A SECOND HELPING 

GEL£E DE POMMES 

Crab-Apple Jelly 

Get some crab-apples, wash them well and 
cook them whole. They should be well covered 
with water and boiled for at least one hour. 
Take a large piece of flannel, tie it to the four 
legs of a stool placed upside down and pour in 
this straining cloth the contents of your sauce- 
pan. Leave it entirely undisturbed so as to have 
the juice quite clear. As it may take about 
twelve hours, the best plan is to do the cooking 
in the evening and let it strain the whole night. 
To each pint of the juice obtained add three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar, flavour with a 
vanilla pod and cook so that it becomes a jelly 
when cold — which you can find out in the usual 
way : that is, by putting a drop of the liquid on 
a cold plate ; if it jellifies after a second or two, 
it is cooked enough. 

CONFITURE DE POIRES 

Peel and cut the pears in four or eight sections 
according to size (they should be all of the same 
kind) and put them in cold water with a little 
lemon juice. Drain them, put them in a pre- 
serving pan with sugar (one pound and a half to 
each two pounds of pears). Start it on a very 
slow fire and stir well. Cook it for about 
twenty-five minutes after it has reached the boil- 
ing point ; the time of cooking, of course, rather 
depends on the kind of pears you are using. 
This jam can be flavoured with cinnamon or 
vanilla. 



SAVOURIES 135 



SAVOURIES 

It is always difficult to think of a new savoury — 
that is, one which is not either too banal or too 
freakish. Of course in French cooking there is 
no word to translate ** savoury," no doubt because 
the corresponding dish simply does not exist. 
Yet, if one looks up old cookery books, books 
published say from about 1700 — when cooking, 
emerging out of its grossness, became civilised 
and more subtle — up to about 1806, one finds 
under the heading Entremets, not only what are 
known now as " sweets " and " puddings," but 
practically all vegetable dishes (I mean the more 
elaborate ones, served separately, not the garni- 
tures for meat courses), also a certain number of 
dishes having bacon, mushrooms or cheese as 
basis, and which really correspond to the English 
savoury. 

These dishes are now used in France as 
Entrees, but there is no reason why in England 
they should not appear in their original place. 
It seems as if most of them were inspired by, or 
indeed copied from traditional dishes of the 
French provinces. There is about them an un- 
mistakable " local " flavour. 

CHAMPIGNONS AU LARD 
Mushroom Patties 
Wash and prepare some nice mushrooms and 
cook them in butter ; also cook some very thin 



136 A SECOND HELPING 

slices of streaky bacon about the same size as 
your mushrooms ; put each mushroom between 
two slices of bacon and enclose the whole in thin 
batter of the feuillete type used for vol-au-veni, 
and bake in the oven. 

CROtJTE AUX CHAMPIGNONS 

Clean and peel the mushrooms and put them 
in cold water and vinegar. Put in a saucepan 
just enough water to cover them and put them 
in when the water is boiling. Five or six minutes 
are enough. Drain them well. Put in another 
saucepan a little butter and olive oil and cook 
the mushrooms in this mixture for a few minutes; 
add parsley and chives finely chopped, salt and 
pepper, and serve very hot. 

CROQUE— MONSIEUR 

Melt a piece of butter the size of a walnut in a 
saucepan, and add, before it gets brown, little by 
little, and stirring well, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, then a teacup of boiling milk. Cook this 
mixture for a quarter of an hour, and let it rest 
ten minutes. Then add two eggs, pepper and 
salt, and a quarter of a pound of grated cheese, 
preferably Gruy^re and Parmesan, mixed in 
equal quantities. 

Cut small pieces of stale bread, about two 
inches square and half an inch thick, put on each 
a thin piece of lean ham and over it about a 
teaspoonful of the mixture previously described. 
Fry in very hot fat till golden brown (without 
turning them), drain well, sprinkle with a little 



SAVOURIES 137 

red pepper and serve at once. The best fat to 
use is that part of the beef fat which is round 
the kidney. 

CREPES AU FROMAGE 
Cheese Pancakes 

Cook four or five pancakes and put them 
aside. Mix well together in a basin some 
Gruyere grated very fine, a little salt, a teaspoon- 
ful of sugar, and the yolks of four eggs. When 
the mixture is quite smooth, pour a tablespoonful 
over one pancake, then another pancake, and so 
on, finishing by a pancake. Cut in quarters and 
cook in butter. Cover with melted butter before 
serving. 

The batter for the pancakes should be made 
in the following manner : Put in a basin a quarter 
of a pound of flour, make a hole in the middle, 
add a pinch of salt, two eggs, a liqueur glass of 
rum, mix well, and add warm water little by 
little, working the paste well till it is very smooth 
and the consistency of cream. Let it rest a few 
hours. To make the pancakes, put in a frying 
pan a small piece of butter ; when it is brown 
put in quickly a tablespoonful of batter, move 
the pan so that it covers the whole bottom (it 
should be as thin as possible) and cook both 
sides, tossing it. 

TARTE AUX OIGNONS. I. 
Onion Tart 
First make a light, flaky pastry and cook it 
until lightly browned in a round mould or a 



138 A SECOND HELPING 

fireproof dish. Then fry four rashers of thinly 
cut bacon so that they are very crisp and almost 
shrivelled up. Chop a few spring onions very 
fine and fry in the bacon fat until well browned. 
Break the bacon into very small pieces and 
mix with the onions. Beat four eggs together 
and add half a pint of milk, salt and pepper. 
Then mix in the bacon and onions. Pour this 
into the pastry and cook very slowly in oven till 
the inside of tart is firm and the top nicely 
browned. This should be served immediately it 
comes from the oven. 

TARTE AUX OIGNONS. II. 
Cut two medium-sized onions in thin slices, 
cook them slowly in butter, and as soon as they 
are soft squash them through a sieve. Cook 
about one ounce and a half of flour in milk, put 
in the mashed onions, one egg well beaten, salt 
and a little cream ; pour all this in an open tart 
of a flaky kind and add a few small cubes of 
boiled smoked bacon. Bake for three-quarters 
of an hour in a slow oven. 

TARTE AUX OIGNONS. III. 
Cut in thin slices three or four large onions, 
put them in cold salted water and bring to the 
boil on a quick fire. When they have cooked a 
few minutes more, remove them and drain them 
well. Put in a pan a quarter of a pound of butter, 
and when hot put in the onions and cook slowly 
till they are a light brown colour. Then add 
three rashers of bacon cut very small and 
previously cooked in butter. Mix together and 



SAVOURIES 139 

put aside till only tepid. Also mix together 
three eggs, four tablespoonfuls of cream, and add 
this to the onions and bacon. 

Prepare a thin pastry as above, bake it, then 
fill it with your mixture ; pour over it melted 
butter, and bake the tart till set and golden. 
Serve ver}' hot. 

(EUFS DURS AU FROMAGE. I. 

Stuffed Eggs 

Once your eggs are cooked and still hot, cut 
them in two, take out the yolks and mash them 
well with a little bechamel cream, a small piece 
of butter, grated cheese, seasoning, and one raw 
yolk of egg. Fill j'^our eggs with this mixture 
and put them in a fireproof dish. Pour over 
them what is left of the mixture, sprinkle with 
more grated cheese and brown in the oven. 
Serve at once. 

(EUFS DURS AU FROMAGE. II. 

Stuffed Eggs 

Remove the shells from four cold hard-boiled 
eggs. Cut in half and take out the yolks, which 
should be mashed with grated Parmesan and 
Gruyere cheese in equal parts, salt, pepper, 
grated nutmeg, and one or two drops of lemon 
juice. Mix well together, moisten with a little 
milk, and fill the whites with the mixture. There 
should be enough of it to cover the sides of the 
eggs also, so as to give back the egg its original 
shape. 



140 A SECOND HELPING 

(EUFS DURS"aUX ANCHOIS 

When the eggs are sufficiently boiled, put them 
in cold water until you are ready to use them. 
Shell and cut them in half, take out the yolks 
and stuff them with the following mixture well 
seasoned : Chop two fillets of anchovies and 
mash them with the yolks of the eggs, adding 
pepper, a little chopped parsley, and moistening 
with cream. 

(EUFS DURS AUX CHAMPIGNONS 

Boil the eggs quickly for at least ten minutes 
and then place them in cold water. When quite 
cold remove the shells and cut each egg in half. 
Take out the yolks and mash them with some 
cream, add salt and pepper. Then chop a little 
parsley and some of the small French mushrooms 
of the "button" variety cooked in butter and 
cold. Mix this with the yolks and cream and 
fill the whites of the eggs with the mixture, 
keeping a little of it to spread on little pieces of 
thin, crisp toast on which you serve the eggs. 

CfiLERI FARCI AU FROMAGE 

Stuffed Celery 

Get some nice white heads of celer}^, clean 
them well and remove the outer leaves. Open 
carefully the heart and stuff the hollow part of 
each leaf with Gorgonzola or Stilton mixed in 
equal parts with butter and well worked together. 
Press the ends of the leaves to give back the 
celery its natural shape, so that it looks as if it 



SAVOURIES 141 

were not stuffed at all. Put it flat on a dish, and, 
for serving, cut it across in slices about half an 
inch long. 

MACARONI AU GRATIN 
One may be inclined to treat this as a common- 
place dish, but if care and a little trouble are 
taken it can be rendered by no means ordinary. 
First boil your macaroni and then place in a large 
mixing bowl. Beat three eggs and mix well with 
the macaroni. Add some grated Parmesan and 
Gruyere cheese mixed in equal proportions. Stir 
well, and add pepper and a quarter of a pound ot 
cream. Butter a fireproof dish and put in the 
mixture, adding a few small lumps of butter, 
sprinkle with some more of the cheese, and bake 
until richly browned. 

BANANES GRATINEES 

Melt some butter in a fireproof dish, add salt 
and a little paprika and cook it for a few minutes, 
stirring well ; then put in some bananas, sprinkle 
with breadcrumbs and grated cheese (Gruyere 
and Parmesan mixed), add a few small pieces of 
butter here and there, and cook in the oven. 
One may like it or dishke it, but it is at least 
worth trying. It "grows "on some people like 
a bad habit. 

POINTES D' ASPERGES A L'lTALIENNE 
For this savoury one need only use the thin 
green asparagus. Cook them in salted boiling 
water, and then drain them well. Cut off the 
tops and place them in a buttered fireproof dish, 



142 A SECOND HELPING 

and sprinkle them with grated cheese, salt and 
pepper. Fill up the dish in the preceding 
manner, put a few extra lumps of butter on top, 
and brown in the oven or under the grill, or 
serve on toast, if you prefer. 

It can also be prepared in a different way : 
when the asparagus tips are cooked, fry them 
lightly in butter, put them in a small saucepan 
with a well-flavoured Bechamel sauce; mix well, 
cook a few minutes ; put on fried bread, sprinkle 
with grated cheese and brown in the oven or 
under a gas grill. 

TARTINES HOLLANDAISES 

Cut some stale brown bread in thin slices ; and 
put on one slice a layer of a mixture of two or 
three kinds of cheese (Gorgonzola, Camembert, 
Cheddar) and butter, then another slice of bread, 
and so on till the cake is about three inches thick. 
Press it well, and serve it across in slices. (In 
Holland the bread used for this is very black, 
very moist, the shape of a brick, and made, I 
understand, of rye flour. When cut it looks like 
a chocolate cake with layers of cream.) 

cr£me au lard 

Take about a quarter of a pound of grated 
cheese (gruy^re preferably) a tumblerful of fresh 
cream and one beaten egg. Mix well together, 
add two thin rashers of bacon crisply fried and 
broken in very small pieces, fill with the mixture 
little souffle dishes (one for each person), and 
cook in a moderate oven, about twenty minutes, 
till it is set and slightly browned. 



SAVOURIES 143 

FONDUE 

The necessary ingredients for this traditional 
Swiss dish are eggs, gruyere and butter, though 
some people improve on it by adding slices of 
truffles, satitees in butter or gravy from roast fowl. 
The important thing is that the proportions are 
right : to the weight of the eggs, whatever it is, 
you must have a third of that weight of grated 
gruyere and a sixth of good butter. First whip 
the whites, add one by one the yolks, then the 
butter in small pieces and last the grated cheese. 
Put this in a saucepan, add salt and a good deal 
of freshly ground pepper ; cook, stirring w^ell all 
the time till the mixture is properly thickened. 
It should be smooth, thick like good cream, and 
served at once very hot. 



144 A SECOND HELPING 



EXOTIC DISHES 

Every human being is, at heart, consciously or 
unconsciously, an explorer ; but many of the 
potential explorers have neither the means nor 
the time to go round the world in search of new 
sensations. In 1900, the whole world came to 
Paris for the Exposition Universelle, and every 
country sent their best products and the things 
they were most proud of for the enrichment of 
the visitor's knowledge. Foodstuffs, of course, 
were given a prominent position, since food plays 
an important part in the life of a nation. And 
there were restaurants too, where you could 
taste the national dishes and beverages of most 
countries. In 1924, at Wembley, there was no 
chance of tasting interesting colonial dishes — 
which was a pity — and we had to be content with 
looking at exotic fruit and vegetables preserved 
for the unnatural purpose of exhibition only, in 
forbidding bottles, where were imprisoned all 
flavour and aroma. 

There certainly is a special attraction in exotic 
cuisine. Indeed, it is often both delicious and 
unusual. It was very much in fashion about the 
year 1874 when Stephane Mallarme was writing, 
between the Faun and Herodiade, creole recipes 
in the Derniere Mode, under the pseudonyms of 
Une dame creole and Olympe, negresse. And they 



EXOTIC DISHES 145 

ought to be the fashion again, at least in England ; 
even the British Lion might, for one, give his 
favourite roast beef a rest and try a dish out of 
one of his tropical colonies. After all there are 
other things than curry over which the sun 
never sets. 

For those who are not incurious or afraid of 
unusual food the following recipes, which are 
quite simple and very good, may be of some 
interest. They come from the West Indies, 
where the genuine old country food is remarkable. 
In many cases substitutes can easily be found in 
England for some of the vegetables. 

BLACK POTATO SOUP 
Take three large black potatoes and boil them 
in about one quart of water with a piece of 
streaky bacon, an onion stuck with two cloves, 
thyme, parsley and a bay leaf Skim well and 
let the soup simmer for one hour, then remove 
the onion, seasoning and bacon; the latter can 
be used when cold. Mash the potatoes well and 
stir the soup thoroughly before serving. 

GOONGOO PEAS SOUP 
One quart of water, seasoning, one half-pint 
of dry goongoos, a quarter of a pound of salt 
beef or salt pork. Put the peas in cold water, 
and let them boil for two hours and a half with 
a sprig of thyme and a piece of skellion. Then 
rub through a colander till smooth and thick, and 
serve with sippets of dry toast. Add the salt 
pork about half an hour after the peas have been 
on the fire. (Small red beans can be used as 



146 ~ A SECOND HELPING 

substitute for the peas, in which case they should 
be soaked for about twelve hours in the ordinary 
fashion.) 

PUREE OF SWEET POTATOES 
Boil two or three large sweet potatoes in 
salted water, strain and mash them and put them 
in a clean saucepan with a piece of butter, salt 
and pepper. Stir well over the fire and add the 
grated flesh of half a small cocoanutand plenty of 
black pepper. Just before serving pour in suffi- 
cient milk to give the puree the consistency of 
thick cream and beat it for a minute with a fork. 

STUFFED BREAD FRUIT 
Take a nice " full " bread-fruit ("full" means 
just before it begins to get ripe), peel and parboil 
it whole in salted water. When cool, scoop out 
the core and a little of the fruit and fill with the 
mixture as follows : — 

Mince a quarter of a pound of fresh pork with 
a thick slice of raw ham and some chopped 
shallot blades, thyme, black pepper, and any 
other seasoning liked. Fill the cavity with this 
dressing and place the bread-fruit in the oven to 
bake. It must be kept erect. When baked, 
press slightlj% and butter while hot. 

MANGO FOOL 
Take six green mangoes and remove every 
particle of green peel, cut them into four, steep 
in clean water and throw stones away. Boil 
the fruit until perfectly tender, pulp and pass 
through a sieve. Sweeten to taste, and add very 



EXOTIC DISHES 147 

gradually, stirring all the time, as much milk as 
will make it the consistency of thick custard. 
Set on ice and serve very cold. A little port 
wine much improves the flavour. 

SAUCE MARTINIQUE 
Take a tablespoonful of finely chopped green 
pepper and mix it with four tablespoonfuls 01 
olive oil and two of wine vinegar. Add salt, 
black pepper and some chopped parsley. Put 
the sauce in a bottle and shake thoroughly 
before using. A similar sauce, called Sauce Papa 
comes from Reunion Islands, and another one, 
stronger still, with pounded red peppers, called 
Mazavaro from Mauritius Island. 

CCEUR DE PALMIER 
The Cceur de palmier is the terminal shoot of a 
certain palm tree and the most delicious of all 
the tropical delicacies. It only reaches us in 
tins, preserved "aw nahtrel" and is served either 
as a salad, plainly dressed with oil and vinegar 
salt and pepper, or hot with one of the sauces 
used for asparagus. 

GUAVA FOOL 
Take some guava (not in Jelly form) pass it 
through a hair sieve, whip it well and add to it 
the syrup contained in the tin, also cream if you 
like and sugar to taste. Serve very cold. 

"JAMAICAN COAT OF ARMS" 
Rice treated in this manner is an unusual 
change from the ordinary methods and most 



148 A SECOND HELPING 

useful as an entree. Wash and clean about one 
pound of rice well, and boil it so that when 
cooked it is not too soft. In fact each grain 
ought to be dry and separate from the rest. In 
another saucepan boil half a pound of small red 
beans. When both ingredients are ready proceed 
as follows : Take four large tomatoes, three 
onions, one plantain. Cut them in smallish 
pieces and fry in three ounces of butter till nicely 
brown. When this is done add the rice and the 
beans, salt and pepper, a small piece of butter, 
mixing the whole well with a fork. Cook it a 
few minutes more, and just before serving 
squeeze in the juice of half a lime, or, if unavail- 
able, the juice of a lemon. Serve very hot. 

The natives are inordinately fond of this dish, 
and it is said that when a negro leaves for some 
other country, he takes with him a large bag of 
the little red beans, almost enough in fact to last 
a lifetime. 

BAKED BANANAS 

Cover the inside of a fireproof dish with batter 
and sprinkle over it a quarter of a pound of 
Demerara sugar. Peel six bananas and place 
them in the dish again, sprinkling freely with 
sugar. Bake in a fairly hot oven for about 
twenty minutes. The correct way of serving 
this dish is with cocoanut milk, but as this is not 
easy to obtain, the following sauce will be found 
a good substitute : — 

Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan and 
put in one pint of milk. When nearly boiling, 
add sufficient sugar to sweeten the milk and 
three eggs well beaten. Bring very slowly to 



EXOTIC DISHES 149 

boiling point, stirring instantly. Place the sauce- 
pan on a cooler part of the stove where the heat 
is just sufficient to keep the contents hot. Put 
in four pieces of cocoanut about the size of a 
matchbox and let all stand for a quarter of an 
hour. Remove the pieces of cocoanut and serve 
with the bananas. 

SWEET POTATO PONE 

One large sweet potato, one tablespoonful of 
yam or of cocoa, one beaten egg, one tablespoonful 
of butter, half a cocoanut grated, milk, black 
pepper, two tablespoonfuls of sugar and water. 
To the sweet potato, boiled and grated, put a 
little grated yam or cocoa, the beaten egg, half a 
cocoanut grated and made into cocoanut milk (or 
else a little cow's or condensed milk), nutmeg, 
black pepper and two tablespoonfuls of brown 
sugar in a half a cup of water. Put in a cake tin 
and bake like a cake till brown. 

Cocoanut milk is made by grating a cocoanut, 
putting one tablespoonful of water to each nut, 
and straining the whole through fine muslin. 
The resulting milky fluid is always called in the 
West Indies " cocoanut milk " and is used instead 
of cream with puddings. It can be put on ice 
when it becomes thick, but must not be kept 
from one day to the next. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE 

Mix together one teacupful of sugar, one small 
pineapple, juiced and chopped, and one breakfast- 
cupful of water. Bring to the boil, then simmer 
for ten minutes. Stir into it a little gelatine 



150 A SECOND HELPING 

dissolved in water. When nearly cold whip two 
whites of eggs into it ; turn out, and serve with 
cream. 

PLANTAIN TARTS 

Take some very ripe plantains, boil them, and 
let them cool. Then mash them very smooth, 
sweeten to taste, and also add spice to taste. 
Then colour the mixture a deep red with the 
juice of a prickly pear squeezed out ; put on thin 
pastry, fold and bake. (Cochineal would do 
instead of prickly-pear). 

CASHEW CAKES 

Cream together half a pound of castor sugar 
and same quantity of butter. Add two eggs 
separately, then three quarters of a pound of 
sifted flour; lastly a handful of chopped cashew 
nuts. Bake on a tin sheet, dropping pieces about 
the size of a half-crown and put a whole nut on 
each. Bake in a hot oven. 



ELDER DEMPSTER PUDDING 

Make a bread-pudding in the usual way with 
two eggs, reserving the white of one. Mean- 
while peel, slice, and fry two ripe bananas. 
When the pudding is baked, spread the fried 
bananas on the top, grate a little nutmeg over 
them, make a meringue with the reserved egg 
white, and replace in the oven for the meringue 
to brown slightly. This is nicest eaten with 
cocoanut cream. 



EXOTIC DISHES 151 

S'KVEITCH FISH 

Take about two pounds of cod or any similar 
fish (the real thing is the famous mud-fish, which 
is not easy to get in Europe ; a substitute will be 
found equally good), and boil it in a court-bouillon. 
When cooked and cold, remove carefully the 
bones and skin, and place the flesh in layers in a 
deep serving dish. 

After each layer put in the following ingre- 
dients : a few very thin shces of onion and sweet 
peppers, a little red pepper, one or two cloves, a 
bay-leaf, salt and freshly-ground pepper ; also a 
few drops of the best olive oil. When the dish 
is ready, pour over the layers of fish a glassful of 
wine vinegar. It should stand for quite two 
hours, when it is ready for the appreciation of 
the guests. 

PEPPER-POT 

This dish is given here a litre de curiosite. 
Very likely it will not be of any use to Londoners, 
but it used to be a typical West Indian dish. 
One does not come across it very often now even 
in Jamaica, probably because people are not 
equal to the effort. There is no harm in trying. 

Take a small quantity each of kale, callalu, 
okroes, beef and salt pork ; a few tomatoes, one 
white coco, one " country pepper," thyme, skel- 
lion and onion to taste ; fresh meat bones. Put 
all on with two quarts water, having tied the 
callalu and kale together. When they are boiled 
tender rub them through a colander and return 
to the pot. Strain before serving. Shrimps or 
black crabs may be boiled with this. (Callalu is 
really spinach, and there are several kinds native 



152 A SECOND HELPING 

to the country; "country pepper" is the real 
article with the " pep " in it. It is so called to 
distinguish it from black pepper. Kale is another 
edible leaf.) 

Of this dish, it may be said, as the author of 
the Cuisinier Imperial, full of the finer traditions, 
puts it, that *^ quelques personnes aiment ce plat, 
qui est de fantaisie'' 



INDEX 



SOUPS j 

Fish soup, 17 

Oyster soup, 18 1 

Potage a la bisque, 19 I 

printanier, 19 j 

paysanne, 20 
Carrot soup, 21 
Puree de Ciboure, 21 
Chestnut soup, 22 ! 

Tapioca aux tomates, 23 
Potage aux herbes maigres, 23 
Tourin bordelais, 23 
Creme de riz, 24 
Grouse soup, 24 
Potage ecossais, 25 
Pea soup, 26 
Potage sante, 26 
Cucumber soup, I, 27 

11,27 
Potage a ralsacienne, 28 
Pumpkin soup, 28 
Dutch pea soup, 28 
Barley soup, 29 
Garbure, 29 

EGG DISHES AND PILAFFS 
Scrambled eggs with saffron, 31 
Stuffed eggs, 31 
Eggs landaise, 31 

a la tripe, 32 

Washington, 32 

bdarnaise, 33 

chasseur, 33 

en aspic, 33 
Curried eggs, 34 
Risotto milanese, 34 
Pilaff, 36 
Sauce a I'indienne for pilaffs, 37 



FISH 

Baked turbot, 38 
Turbot en aspic, 38 
Scallops, 39 
Sole Normande, 39 
en matelotte, 40 
bretonne, 40 
Colbert, 41 
Fillets of sole Dorothee, 41 

regence, 42 
Stuffed fresh water fish with 

white wine, 43 
Fried oysters, 44 
Oysters au gratin, 44 
Lobster a la creme, 44 
Skate with caper sauce, 45 
Prawn patties, 45 
Anchovy sauce, 46 
Marinade of herrings, 46 
Grilled herrings, 47 
Cod bretonne, 47 
Stuffed cod, 48 
Curried cod, 48 
Salt cod, 48 

Brandade of cod, 49 

I 

! MEAT DISHES 

I 

I Roasting game, 50 

Salmis of partridge, 50 
I game, 5 1 

j Braised partridge, 52 

Partridge poele, 52 
! Fillets of partridge aux bi- 
j garades, 53 
I Stuffed pheasant au foie gras, 54 

Roast hare, 54 
! with sauce bordelaise, 55 

with sauce flamande, 55 



153 



154 



INDEX 



MEAT DISHES— continued 

Jugged hare, I, 55 

11,56 
Galantine of game, 56 
Faisan a la choucroute, 57 
Puree of rabbit, 58 
Rabbit pie, 58 

Stuffed prunes for rabbit pie, 59 
Stuffed goose, 59 
Chicken poele Pail lard, 60 

saute a la creme, 61 

lyonnaise, 61 

au blanc, 61 

Creole, 62 
Fricassee of chicken, 62 
Baked lamb cutlets, 63 
Roast lamb with asparagus, 63 
Boiled leg of mutton a I'ecos- 

saise, 64 
Leg of mutton Pravaz, 64 

bretonne, 65 
Gibelotte sauternoise, 66 
Mutton a la bourgeoise, 67 

portugaise, 67 

au gratin, 68 
Rissoles of mutton, 68 
Escalopes of veal parisienne, 68 
Veal chops Paillard, 69 

normande, 69 
Veau au citron, 69 
Braised veal, 70 
Calf's liver au four, 70 
Pork chops sauce Robert, 71 

sauce diable, 71 
Braised beef, I, jl 

11,72 

with peas, 73 
Fillet of beef, 73 
Small fillets of beef with horse- 
radish sauce, 74 
Entrecdte rennaise, 74 
Toumedos sautes, 75 
Beef au four, 75 

gratine, 75 
Ragout of beef, 76 
Sausages with cabbage, 76 

with haricot beans, 77 



Sausages with carrots, 78 
Kidneys flambes, 78 
au genievre, 78 
Galantine, 79 
Pate de campagne, 79 
Vol-au-vent financiere, 80 
Foie gras aux raisins, 80 



VEGETABLES 

Potatoes with bacon, 83 

with cheese, 84 
Devonshire fried potatoes, 84 
Potatoes paille, 85 

sicilienne, 85 
Puree of potatoes soufflee, 85 
Black potatoes, 86 
Fried potatoes paysanne, 86 
Raw Fry, 86 
Squab pie, 87 
Green cabbage, 88 
Cabbage a la creme, 88 
Brussel sprouts a I'italienne, 89 
Cauliflower maitre d'hotel, 89 

fried, I, 90 

11,90 
Mashed turnips, 90 
New carrots a la poulette, 91 
Fricassee of carottes, 1, 91 

11,92 
Peas with bacon, 92 
Broad beans maitre d'hotel, 92 
White haricot beans perigour- 

dine, 93 
Red haricot beans bourguig- 

nonne, 03 
Haricots mange-tout, 94 
French beans a la landaise, 94 

a la creme, 95 
Spinach au gratin, 95 

au branches, 96 
Baked lettuce, 96 
Puree of chicory, 96 
Croquettes of celery, 97 
Japanese artichokes, 97 
Asperges gratinees, 98 
Asperges a la royale, 98 



INDEX 



155 



VEGETABLES— continued 

Endives pochees meuniere, 99 

au gratin, 99 
Pumpkin souffle, lOO 

gratine au lard, 100 
Stuffed marrow, 10 1 
Cucumbers, lOi 

au jus, 102 

au blanc, 102 

stuffed, 103 
Chestnut stuffing, 103 
Fried aubergines, 103 
Aubergines sautees, I, 104 

II, 104 
Artichoke souffle, 1 04 

a la barigoule, 105 
Maltese curry, 106 
Salade, rhenane, 107 

of cucumbers and eggs, 107 

of potatoes and eggs, 108 
Apple salad, 109 
Salad of beetroot and dandelion, 
109 

SWEETS AND JAMS 

Compote of apples with pine- 
apple, 112 

au caramel, 112 

with chestnuts, 112 
Apples a la neige, II3 
Baked pears, II3 
Peaches Barbara, II4 
Marmalade of prunes, II5 
Croute aux fruits, 1 15 
Tartelettes bretonnes, 1 16 
Galettes de ble noir, 1 17 
Far Lorientais, 1 17 
Kanouga, 1 18 
He flottante, 1 18 
Gateau aux pistaches, 119 
Frittata, 119 
Tarte portugaise, 1 19 
Giteaux de pomme de terre, 120 
Galettes au riz, 120 
Gateau de riz en moule, 121 
Timbales de riz aux fruits, 121 



Chocolate cake, 12 1 
Lait cuit a la creme, 122 
Pain de Genes, 122 
Strawberry shortcake, 123 
CEufs a la reine, 123 
Plum fool, 123 
Orange salad, 124 
Pineapple salad, I, 124 
II, 124 
glace, 125 
Strawberries a la creme au 
kirsch, 125 
Xenia, 126 
Bananas aux framboises, 126 
au rhum, 127 
Creole, 127 
Orange fritters, 127 
Banana souffle, 128 
Orange souffle, 128 
Ginger souffle, 128 
Souffle chinois, 129 
Crepes Suzette, 129 
Petits pots de creme, 130 
Omelette au kummel, 131 
Banana jam, 132 
Grapefruit marmalade, 132 
Pumpkin jam, I, 132 

11, 133 
Marrow jam, 133 
Pear jam, 134 
Crab apple jelly, 134 

SAVOURIES 

Mushroom patties, 135 
Croute of mushrooms, 136 
Croque-monsieur, 136 
Cheese pancakes, 137 
Onion tart, I, 137 

II, 138 

III, 138 

Stuffed eggs with cheese, I, 139 

11, 139 

anchovies, 140 

mushrooms, 140 
Stuffed celery, 1 40 
Macaroni cheese, 141 
Baked bananas, 141 



156 



INDEX 



SAVOURIES— continued 

Asparagus a I'italienne, 141 
Tartines hollandaises, I42 
Creme au lard, 142 
Fondue, 143 

EXOTIC DISHES 
Black potato soup, 145 
Goongoo peas soup, 145 
Puree of sweet potatoes, 146 
Stuffed bread fruit, 146 
Mango fool, 146 



Sauce martinique, 147 
Coeur de palmier, I47 
Guava fool, 1 47 
Jamaican Coat of Arms, 147 
Baked bananas, 148 
Sweet potato pone, 149 
Pineapple sponge, 149 
Plantain tarts, 150 
Cashew cakes, 150 
Elder dempster pudding, 150 
S' kveitch Fish, 151 
Pepper pot, 15 1 



^'1 



