PUBLICATION 492 ISSUED April. 1936 

HOUSEHOLD BULLETIN 3 REPRINT 

DOMINION OF CANADA, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 



WHY 
AND HOW TO USE MILK 




DAIRY AND COLD STORAGE BRANCH 




Published by authority of the Hon. JAMES G. GARDINER, Minister of.Agriculture 
Ottawa, Canada 



63o u 

C-3 



m 



l+l 



Agriculture 
Canada 



Canadian Agriculture Library 
Bibliotheque canadienne de I'agriculture 
Ottawa K1 A 0C5 



The strength of a nation depends on the health and strength of its individual 
members It matters not how wealthy a nation may become, how large its cities, 
how vast its armies and navies, if the health of its people is on the decline, it will 
rapidly perish and decay."— Sen;. Disraeli, Former Prime Minister of England 



■"P HIS is a message to you, Canadian women, for on you rests the responsibility 
1 of providing young Canadians with suitable food for health, and for 
mental and physical growth. The well-being of your family depends, in large 
measure, on the food which you give them to eat, and upon the welfare of your 
family depends the future welfare of the nation. 

Study your foods, and be able to make a wise choice in quality and quantitv 
There are many under-nourished children in Canada, but under-nourishment is 
not always the result of too little food, very often it is because of unsuitable 
food. 

Milk and dairy products are pre-eminent among the foods which nature 
provides. They are available in every part of Canada at comparatively low cost. 
They are nutritious, economical, easy to prepare, and can be served in an endless 
variety of ways. Give them a bigger place in the day's menus. This little book 
may help you. It is given to you in the hope that your family will benefit in 
better health, greater efficiency and the saving of money. 



essentkl'"'^ *A™»?*M n°°r ™ d n he che W«*-for growing children an 
Ottawa^' ' mer 6pUly MinisteT > Department of Health, 



DAIRY PRODUCTS 

Whole Milk Evaporated Milk 

Skim-milk Powdered Milk 

Buttermilk Cheese 

Condensed Milk Butter 
Ice Cream 

How much of your expenditure for food buys dairy products? Dr. Sherman, 
Columbia University, says the following is a wise division of each $10 spent:— 

Milk and its products (Butter, Ice Cream and Cheese) .$ 4 40 

Vegetables and Fruits 1 70 

Bread and Cereals 130 

Meat and Fisli 120 

Eggs ' 60 

Miscellaneous 50 

Sugar 30 

Total $10 00 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

3 teaspoons 1 tablespoon 

16 tablespoons 1 cup 

2 cups 1 pint 

4 cups 1 quart 

2 cups butter 1 pound 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 pound 

2§ cups brown sugar 1 pound 

4 cups flour 1 pound 

9 medium sized eggs 1 pound 



ABBREVIATIONS 



tap teaspoon 

tbsp tablespoon 

c cup 

pt pint 

o,t quart 

lb pound 



All measurements in these recipes are level. 



15244— lj 



THE VALUE OF MILK 

MILK and its products are indispensable to the growth of the child and to 
the health of the adult. For these, there is no substitute. For the infant, 
milk is a perfect food; for the growing child, milk and the products of the dairy 
are essential foods; and for adults, they are the most important foods. 

Food is not merely "something to chew." It must furnish material for the 
growth and repair of the body, material for body heat and energy and material 
for use by the body as regulating substances. Milk fulfils all these require- 
ments. It contains protein from which the body builds new cells and repairs 
worn-out tissues. It contains fat and sugar, which serve as a source of heat 
and energy for muscular activity, and it contains mineral matter which has a 
regulatory effect and which enters into the composition of the body, especially 
the bones and teeth. 

Not only does milk supply these demands, but it contains also the essential 
food factors, or vitamines. — Fat-soluble A, Water-soluble B, Fat-soluble E, and 
Water-soluble G, without which normal growth is impossible and without which 
the health of the adult cannot be maintained. 

On account of the amount of water in milk, it is often thought expensive by 
many who do not know its real food value. This is chiefly because it is in liquid 
form, and because it is often used as a beverage. Milk, however, has not as high 
a percentage of water as strawberries, turnips, tomatoes, oysters, and many other 
foods in solid form. About four-fifths of the human body is made up of water. 
Although milk contains such a high percentage of water, it is still an indispens- 
able food, because its solids have all the food essentials which entitle milk and 
milk products to the main place in the diet of the young and of the old. 

CREAM SAUCE 

THIN SODIUM THICK 

1 tbsp. bu 2 tbsp. butter 3 tbsp. butter 

1 tbsp. flour 2 tbsp. flour 3 or 4 tbsp. flour 

4 tsp. salt i tsp. salt i tap. salt 
Pepper Pepper Pepper 

1 e. milk 1 c. milk 1 e. milk 

METHODS OF MAKING 

Method No. 1: 

Melt butter, stir in flour and seasonings until smooth. Stir in the milk 
gradually and cook, stirring constantly, until it thickens. 

Method Xo. 2: 

Mix the flour smoothly with a little cold milk. Heat the rest of the milk 
in a double boiler. Add the flour and stir constantly until the mixture thickens. 
Add the butter and seasonings. 

Less butter will be required if Method No. 2 is followed. 

Thin cream sauce is the basis for cream soups and is used for milk toast. 

Medium cream sauce is used for creamed vegetables, fish, meat, etc. 

Thick cream sauce is the foundation for croquettes and souffles. 

CHEESE SAUCE 

Mate a medium cream sauce and to this add one-third cup of grated cheese. 
Reheat slowly until the cheese is melted. Serve at once with toast, macaroni, or 
poached eggs. *■ 



5 
EGG SAUCE 

Make a medium cream sauce and add one finely chopped, hard boiled egg. 
Serve with fish. 

PARSLEY SAUCE 

Make a medium cream sauce and to this add 3 tablespoons of finely chopped 
parsley. 

BREAD SAUCE 

1 c. milk 

$ c. stale bread crumbs 1 Pi ppi i coma 

2 or 3 slices onion 1 tbsp. butter 

i t-sf 

Scald the milk with the onion and pepper corns about five minutes. Remove 
pepper corns and onion and add the butter, bread crumbs, salt and pepper. Cook 
a few minutes longer and serve hot with boiled or roast fowl. 



PROTEIN IN MILK 

FROM the food which we eat, the body must obi am material for the forma- 
tion of new cells and repair of the worn-out tissues. This is supplied by 
protein. But all proteins are not alike in quality and it is. therefore, important 
to know the kind, as well as the amount, contained in our food-. 

Proteins are not simple substances, but are made up of chemical units called 
amino acids, which in turn differ in physiological value. These amino acids, 
eighteen in number, have been compared to the letters of the alphabet, for as in 
words, letters appear in different combinations, so the amino aeids occur in 
proteins, and the value of the protein depends on the amino acida rontained in it. 

Experiments by investigators in the science of nutrition show that when 
cereal grains are the only source of protein in the diet of growing animals, only 
about 30 per cent of the protein is used as building material by the body, but 
when the protein is supplied by milk alone, 65 per cent of the protein is utilized. 
Furthermore, when these two foods are used together, the milk proteins supple- 
ment those of the cereals, so that not only are the milk proteins utilized as 
before, but a much larger percentage of the cereal proteins. The deficiencies of 
other foods are counterbalanced by milk in the diet. "When we serve milk with 
cereal, with bread, or other foods made from grains, we are not only using the 
nutrients in milk, but are conserving for body uses much other protein which 
otherwise would be wasted. 

Casein and lactalbumin are the two proteins in whole milk and they are also 
found in skim-milk, buttermilk and cheese. The mother who gives her children 
plenty of milk either alone or in combination with other foods is supplying the 
best quality of building material for a sound and healthy body. 



"Milk and the leaves of plants are to be regarded as protective foods and 
should never be omitted from the diet. Milk is a better protective food than are 
the leaves, when used in appropriate amounts." — Dr. E. V. MeColbim, Professor of 
Biochemistry, Johns Hopkins University. 



U244 --■: 



CREAM SOUPS 

The basis of cream soups is a thin cream sauce, flavoured with vegetable 
pulp. 

Part of the liquid may be vegetable water instead of all milk. 

The vegetables may be freshly cooked, or any cold leftovers may be used. 
The vegetables should be pressed through a sieve or mashed evenly. Combina- 
tions of two or three vegetables may be used if the flavours blend. 

Cream of potato sou]) does not require as much flour on account of the 
large amount of starch in the vegetable. 

Special directions are necessary for cream of tomato soup on account of the 

aciditv of the tomato. 

CREAM OF VEGETABLE SOUP 

4 a ■ »it 

2 to 4 tbsp. butter Pepper 

4 c. milk 1 ('■ vegetable pulp 

Make a cream sauce of the first five ingredients, using Method No. 1 or 
No. 2. Into this, stir the vegetable pulp. Reheat if necessary. Serve hot. 

POTATO SOUP 

3 i H toP' »I* 

1 qt. milk !• '\v salt 
3 slices onion ['• pepper 

3 tfrsp. butler Few grams cayenne 

2 tbsp. flour 1 I 1, 

Cook potatoes in boiling salted water. When soft, drain and rub through a 
sieve. Scald the milk with the onion. Remove the onion and add milk slowly 
to the potato pulp. Mix the flour to a smooth paste with a little cold milk and 
stir this gradually into the hot mixture. Cook a few minutes, stirring constantly. 
Add butter and BeasoningB. Sprinkle with finely chopped parslev, if desired. 

SALMON SOUP 

1 qt. milk 4 tbsp. flour 

1 small can or i large can salmon 1 tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. bi Pepper 

Make a cream sauce using Method No. 2. Drain the oil from the salmon, 
mash evenly and add to the sauce. Serve hot. 

MINERAL MATTER TN MILK 

WE could not dispense with mineral matter in our food any more than we 
could dispense witli the protein which b so important as body building 
material. Mineral salts. or ash, of food, acts as body regulating substances. 
They also enter into the composition of the cells and are the chief constituents 
of certain parts of the body such as bones, teeth, etc. It is not possible to have 
a strong body without a strong firm skeleton any more than it would be possible 
to build a good house, without a satisfactory frame work. 

Chief of all the mineral materials for this purpose is calcium or lime and 
the ordinary mixed diet is very often deficient in this substance. Milk is richest 
of all common foods in lime and this factor alone would make it one of the most 
necessary foods in the child's diet. 

When the body is growing, the bones are being built longer and thicker and 
srtronger and the amount of lime required is in proportion greater than when the 
body has attained full growth. Fruit and vegetables, particularly green vege- 
tables, also contain lime, but the chief source is milk and its products with the 
exceptttm of butter, which has no lime. Lime is essential for strong bones and 
good hard teeth. 



Phosphorus is also present in milk. This mineral enters into all the cells 
of the body and is another substance in which a mixed diet is often deficient. 
The amount of dairy products which will supply lime in necessary quantities will 
also supply sufficient phosphorus for body needs. 

Milk does not contain much iron, but the amount present is readily 
absorbed and thoroughly utilized. The lime which is present in milk is believed 
to increase the body's ability to use iron. 



"By far the most practical means of insuring abundance of calcium in the diet 
is to use milk freely as a food." — Dr. Sherman, Columbia University. 



CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP 

4 tbsp. flour 
2 slices onion 4 (bsp. butter 

2 tsp. sugar 1 tsp. salt 

1 qt. milk Pepper 

Cook tomatoes, sugar and onion together for 15 minutes. Melt the butter 
and stir in the flour until smooth. Stir in the milk and seasonings and cook, 
stirring constantly, until thick. Press tomatoes through a sieve and stir slowly 
into the sauce. Serve at once. 

CHEESE SOUP 

1 qt. milk Yolks of 2 eggs 

2 or 3 slicea onion i c. grated cheese 

isp. butter 1 tsp. salt 

.' thap. flour Pi pper 

Scald the milk with the onion. Melt the butter in the top part of a double 
boiler and stir in the flour until smooth. Stir into this the heated milk and 
seasonings and cook in a double boiler, stirring constantly, until thick. Into 
this stir the beaten egg yolks. Cook one minute and add the grated cheese. 
Beat with a Dover egg-beater and serve at once. 

Egg yolks may be omitted, but make a richer, more delicious soup. 

CORN SOUP 

1 can corn 2 tbsp. bul 

1 pt. boiling water 2 tbsp. flour 

1 pt. milk 1 tsp. salt 

1 slice onion Pepper 

Simmer water, corn and onion for 20 minutes. Press through a sieve. Make 
a cream sauce of the remaining ingredients. Add the vegetable pulp, reheat if 
necessary and serve hot. One tablespoonful chopped parsley may be added. 

CROUTONS (To serve with soup) 

Cut stale bread into about one-third inch cubes. Put in a pan in the oven 
until slightly browned, or fry in deep fat. 

CHEESE CRACKERS 

Butter crackers sparingly and spread evenly with grated cheese. Place in 
a hot oven until the cheese is melted. 

CARBOHYDRATES IN MILK 

THE function of carbohydrates in food is to furnish heat and energy for the 
body to do its work. Starch and sugar belong to this class and in milk 
the carbohydrate is in the form of lactose or milk sugar. This, when separated 
from milk, can be bought on the market in the form of white powder resembling 
confectioner's sugar. In composition, it is somewhat similar to cane sugar, but is 
much less sweet and does not dissolve so readily. 

15244— 2J 



8 

Milk sugar is thought by many to have a special physiological value and, 
for this reason, is very often used for modifying cow's milk for artificially fed 
babies. 




"The cheapest, safest and best food for children is good clean milk." — Dr. Helen 
MacMurchy, Former Chief, Division oj Child Welfare, Department oj Health, 
Ottawa. 



CORN CHOWDER 



1 can corn 

4 c. potatoes cut in small cubes 

2 tbap. bacon fat or pork dripping 
1 slice onion 



1 !sp. suit 

Pepper 

4 c. scalded milk 
3 tbsp. butter 



Parboil potatoes five minutes in boiling water. Cook the onion and fat 
togt~ier for five minutes, stirring frequently. Drain potatoes and add to the 
onion ami fat. Stir in two cups of boiling water and cook all together until the 
potatoes are soft. Add the corn. Stir in the milk and butter. Season and serve 
hot. 



FISH CHOWDER 

A 11). sal; fish (coil or haddock) 2 tbsp. chopped union 

1 qt. milk 2 tbep. bacon fal or butter 

3 potatoes cu) in small cubes Pep] 

Cut the fish into small pieces. Soak in cold water about two hours and 
drain. Cook the onion and fat together a few minutes, stirring frequently. Add 
potatoes, tish and about two cups water. Cook until potatoes are soft, then add 
the milk. Season with pepper and serve hot. 

One pound of fresh fish may he used instead of salt fish. It is not necessary 
to soak fresh fish before cooking. 

VEGETABLE CHOWDER 

4 filiate: - _> :l,.( , !, utter 
3 medium sized carrots 3 tbsp. flour 

3 small onions 2 c. milk 

2 e. tomatoi - (canst <!) 2 tap. salt 

Cut potatoes and carrots into small cubes and cook carefully, in sufficient 
boiling water to cover, for 20 minutes. Chop the onion finely and cook with 
the butter about five minutes. Mix the flour to a smooth paste with a little cold 
milk. Add the onions and tomatoes to the cooked vegetables. Heat and stir 
into this the heated milk and seasonings. Stir in the flour and cook a few 
minutes longer. Serve hot. 

OYSTER STEW 

1 e. ny- ,. .salt 

2 c. milk Pepper 

1 ill-]', butter 3 tbsp. biscuit crumbs 

Strain the oysters over a bowl. Pick over and rinse with cold water. Add 
the crumbs and oyster liquid to the milk and heat in a double boiler. Add the 
butter, seasonings and oysters and cook until the oysters are plump and the 
edges begin to curl. Serve at once. 

VITAMINES IN MILK 

WITHIN the hist few years, investigators in nutrition have proven the 
presence in certain foods of essential factors which are indispensable to 
growth and to health. These tire railed vitamines and. although as yet not a 
great deal is known of them, some food experiments have shown that there are 
at least six kinds, all of which are present in milk. 

Fat-soluble A: Without this factor in the diet of children, normal growth 
and development of the body or of the mental powers is impossible. It is 
closely associated with the fats in certain foods and is also found in the 
leaves of green vegetables, in egg fat. and in the embryo of most seeds. 
Whole milk, cream and butter are rich in this vitamine, and even skim- 
milk contains a certain amount. This vital element is not contained in 
vegetable fats or lard. A small amount is found in beef suet. 

Water-soluble H: This second vitamine is found in milk. Eggs, fruit, 
whole grains, vegetables, and the green leaves of plants also contain it. The 
cow which feeds almost altogether on green feed concentrates in her milk 
the surplus from the leaves not required for her own maintenance. The 
milk wheih she produces contains much AVater-soluble B vitamine. 

Fat-soluble E: This vitamine is associated with normal reproduction. 
Tt is widely distributed among foods, grains (especially the germ), vege- 
tables, meat, whole milk, and butter being its best source-. 

Water-soluble (I: Vitamine G is a factor in the prevention of pellagra, 
and is also important for normal nutrition, growth and health. Milk, eggs, 
green vegetable-, meat (especially glandular organs) and yeast all supply 
this vitamine. 



10 

Water-soluble C a)id Fat-soluble D: Both these vitamines are necessary 
for the normal development of bones and teeth. Neither is abundant in 
milk, although both may be present in appreciable amounts, the latter being 
found in the butter-fat. Butter, cream, whole milk, egg yolk and liver are 
practically all the natural foods containing vitamine D. 



"If the true nutritive value of milk and its various products were fully realized, 
they would be more appreciated and much more freely used." — Pro}- R- Hurcourt, 
O.A.C., Guelph, Out. 



MILK TOAST 

1 c. milk 1 tbsp. butter 

1 tbsp. flour Few grains of 

Melt the butter. Stir in the flour until smooth and frothy. Stir in the milk 
and cook, stirring constantly, until thickened. Pour over squares of dry to 
Let stand a minute or two and serve hot. 

JUNKET 

1 Junket tablet 1 tbsp. cold w - Flavouring 

1 qt. milk 4 tbsp. sugar 

Dissolve the junket thoroughly in the cold water. Heat the milk until only 
lukewarm. Add the sugar and, when dissolved, stir quickly into this the dissolved 
junket tablet and flavouring. Pour into a glass dish and let stand in a warm 
place until set. Chill and serve. If the milk becomes too hot. let stand until 
lukewarm before adding the dissolved tablet. 

IVORY JELLY 

1 tbsp. granulated gelatine alia 

lie rich milk Few grains of 

2V tbsp. sugar 

Soak the gelatine in three tablespoons of the cold milk. Heat the rest of 
the milk. Add the sugar, salt and soaked gelatine. Strain. When cool, add the 
flavouring and pour into a cold, wet mould. Chill and servo with cream- or fruit 
juice. 

COCOANUT BLANC MANGE 

2 c. milk 4 tbap. sugar sp, vanilla 

5 tbsp. corn starch Salt shredded cocoanut 

Mix the corn starch, sugar and salt in a double boiler with enough cold milk 
to make a smooth paste. Stir into this the -raided milk and cook, stirring con- 
stantly, until it thickens. Let cook slowly for 15 minutes, stirring frequently. 
Remove from the fire, add vanilla and cocoanut. Pour into a cold, wet mould 
and chill thoroughly. 

To this recipe may be added, if desired, the yolk of one egg, or one whole 
egg. The egg white may be beaten until stiff and folded into the mixture when 
it has finished cooking. If an egg is used, a little less corn starch will be 
required. 

MILK WITH CEREAL 

Milk may be added to any cereal when it is being cooked. 

Put the cereal to cook in about half the amount of boiling sailed water 
usually used. Stir over the fire a few minutes, then place in a double boiler. 
Add enough skim-milk or whole milk to make up the other half of the liquid. 
Cook dowly and, when done, serve with milk. This makes a very palatable and 
nutritious cereal. Rice, oatmeal, rolled oats, com meal, cream oi wheat, etc., are 
delicious cooked in this-, wav. 



11 

DIGESTIBILITY OF MILK 

MILK is food in liquid form. As soon, however, as it reaches the stomach 
it is separated into curds and whey. The curd is chiefly the protein part 
of the milk and this is acted upon by the digestive juices and broken down into 
suitable form for absorption by the body. About 80 per cent of the protein in 
milk is casein, which is one of the most easily digested of any forms of protein. 
Lactalbumin, the other main protein in milk, is found in the whey and is believed 
by'Dr. Graham Lusk, of Cornell University, to be "as perfect a material for use 
in the service of growth as any protein known." 

The ease with which fats arc digested depends largely upon whether they 
melt at a high or low temperature. Butter fat requires but little heat to keep 
it in liquid form and partly for this reason is one of the most easily digested 
fats. It is then easy to understand why, apart from its special nutritive qualities, 
it is of particular value for invalids and children. 

Milk is more easily digested when taken in combination with other foods, 
except in the diet of babies. It is better to sip milk slowly rather than to take 
large amounts at once, as this will prevent the formation of hard curds in the 
stomach. 

The physiological value of any food does not depend entirely on its com- 
position, but rather on the amount of material contained which can be digested 
and converted into an avialable form for assimilation. 

All, or nearly all. the solids in milk are digested. There is do waste. 

BAKED CUSTARD 

2 c. milk i tsp. salt 

2 or 3 eggs Flavouring 

J c. sugar 
Beat the eggs slightly and add the sugar and salt. Stir in the heated milk 
slowly. Strain into a buttered mould or into small buttered cups. Add flavour- 
ing. Place the moulds in a pan of hot water, allowing the water in the outer 
dish to come almost to the top of the mould. Place in a moderate oven and 
bake until firm. This may be determined by running a silver knife through the 
custard; if the knife comes out clean, the custard is set. Remove at once. 

The water in the pan should not be allowed to reach boiling temperature, 
or the custard will curdle. 

For cup custards, one egg to one cup of milk is sufficient, A larger custard 
requires more eggs. 

This custard may be covered and cooked in a steamer over boiling water 
instead of baked in the oven. 

FLAVOURING FOR CUSTARDS (To one cup milk) 

Few gratings of nutmeg Grated rind of lemon 

Few drops vanilla 2 tbsp. strong coffee infusion 

1 tbsp. cocoa 1 tbsp. cu! 

CUSTARD SAUCE 

1 c. milk 1 egg 

1-V tbsp. sugar Flavouring 

Salt 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Beat the egg slightly and add the sugar 
and salt. Stir the hot milk into the beaten egg. Return to the double boiler 
and cook, stirring constantly, until the mixture is thick enough to form a coating 
on a cold spoon. Remove at once and strain into a cold dish. When cold, add 
the flavouring. 

If custard sauce has become slightly curdled, it may l>e remedied by beating 
vigorously with a Dover egg-beater. 

CUSTARD PIE 

2 eggs Salt 

li c. milk Flavouring 

3 tbsp. sugar 

Mix the ingredients as for baked custard. Fill an uncooked pie shell with 
the mixture and bake in a slow oven. 



12 
CARE OF MILK IN THE HOME 

THE consumer lias a right to demand clean milk. Dirty milk is not only 
disgusting, but sometimes dangerous. Very often, however, milk which 
has been carefully handled by the producer is spoiled by careless treatment in 
the home. " Cleanliness" should be the watchword of every person who has to do 
with milk, on the farm, in the dairy, during transportation, or in the home. 

When we consider some of the characteristics of milk, we cannot but realize 
the importance of proper care in handling it. Bacteria grow readily in milk 
and pasteurization is the method commonly adopted for the destruction of disease 
germs which may find entry into it. In many cities, pasteurization is compulsory, 
but if milk has not been pasteurized at the dairy, it can easily be done in the 
home. 

Because the growth of bacteria is more rapid in a warm temperature, milk 
should be kept as cool as possible. Below 50 degrees F. growth is retarded. In 
the home, a refrigerator is the most convenient way of keeping milk, but if a 
refrigerator is not used, it is a good plan to wrap the bottle in a wet cloth and 
stand it in a dish of cold water by an open window. The evaporation of the 
water will keep the milk cool. 

Milk should not be exposed to dirty or dusty air. In cities, the best way 
to buy milk is in bottles. If these are delivered early in the morning, a small 
covered box to hold the bottles will protect them from the sunlight and from 
prowling cats and dogs. 

Milk absorbs flavours easily and should not be placed near foods with a 
pronounced odour, such as onions, cabbage, fish, etc. 

If a refrigerator is used, the milk should be placed on the lower shelf and 
should always be kept closely covered. After the cap has been taken off the 
bottle, a satisfactory cover is an inverted tumbler. It is better to keep milk in 
the bottle, pouring out only enough for immediate use. If any of this amount 
remains, it should not be poured back into the bottle, as it will be of a higher 
temperature. As soon as the milk bottle is emptied, it should be rinsed in clear 
cold water, then washed and thoroughly scalded. All utensils, such as milk pails, 
separator, milk bottles, towels, etc, which are used in caring for milk should be 
kept scrupulously clean. Daily exposure to strong sunlight will aid in keeping 
them sweet and wholesome. 

BARLEY PI DDING 

1 qt. milk i c. sugar 
i c. barley Salt 

Wash the barley. Add the milk, salt and sugar and cook in a double boiler 
until the barley is tender. If desired, the pudding may be turned into a buttered 
baking dish and placed in the oven during the last half of the time required for 
cooking. 

RICE PUDDING 

6 tbsp. rioc 1 qt. milk i isp. salt 

2 eggs -ugar Flavouring 

Wash rice and put with the milk in the top part of a double boiler. Cook 
until soft. Beat the eggs and add the sugar. Stir into this the hot milk and 
return to the double boiler. Stir constantly until it thickens. Remove from the 
fire and add flavouring. The egg whites may be beaten until stiff and folded 
into the. mixture when it has finished cooking. 

The eggs may be omitted. If eggs are not used, eight tablespoons of rice 
will be required. A . 



13 

TAPIOCA CREAM 

i c. tapioca 2 eggs 

2 c. milk i c. sugar 1 tep. vanilla 

Soak the tapioca in lukewarm water about one hour. Scald the milk. Into 
this, add the strained tapioca and cook in a double boiler until the tapioca is 
clear and transparent. Beat the yolks of the eggs. Add the sugar and salt, and 
into this stir the milk and tapioca. Return to the double boiler and stir until 
it thickens. Remove, add flavouring and into this fold the stiffly beaten egg 

whites. Serve cold. 

SPANISH CREAM 



2 tbsp, tiranuhiii il gelatine 

3 c. milk 
Whiles of 3 < [ 
Yulks of 3 eggs 



J e. -ugar 

Salt 
1 t>]>. vanilla 



Soak the gelatine in the cold milk in the top part of a double boiler, then 
put over the heat until the gelatine is thoroughly dissolved. Beat the egg yolks, 
add the sugar and into this stir the scalded milk. Return to the double boiler 
and cook, stirring constantly, until thickened. Strain and set aside to cool. 
When the mixture begins to thicken slightly, fold in the stiffly beaten whites of 
the eggs and turn into a cold wet mould. Chill and serve with cream. 

If small moulds are desired, one tablespoonful gelatine will be sufficient. 

CREAM 

THE fat of milk is spoken of as butter fat, because it is from this that butter 
is made. Commercially, the fat is the most important constituent of milk 
and, although in whole milk the average is only between 3 and 4 per cent of the 
total, market milk is judged by the depth of the cream line or the amount of 
butter fat which it contaii 




"The Healthy fluid is the Cream Line of a Nation;' 



14 

The fat is in the form of -mall globules and when milk is perfectly fresh, 
the globules arc distributed evenly throughout it. If milk stands for some time, 
these globules, being lighter than water, rise to the top and form cream. The fat 
globules are not always the ^anie size, and are smaller in goat's milk than in 
cow's milk. Because of this, the cream rises very slowly in goat's milk. 

Cream is not pure fat, but really whole milk with' a very large percentage 
of fat. It contains some water, some protein, some mineral' matter and most 
of the Fat-soluble A vitamine. Valuable as are the other constituents, it is the 
vitamine contained which places butter fat mile high above any other fats U 
as food, particularly in the diet of the growing boy or girl. 

Give your child butter fat in whole milk, in cream and in butter. 

WHIPPED CREAM 

Cream for whipping should contain about 30 per cent butter fat. It is better 
between 12 and 24 hours old and will whip more easily if chilled to below 40 
degrees F. 

If the cream is too thin to whip, a small amount of sour cream, or about 
one-half teaspoon lemon juice to one cup of cream will help to remedy it. 
Cream should double its bulk when whipped. 

Both pasteurized and unpasteurized cream will whip. It may be flavoured 
with vanilla and powdered sugar. 

DEVONSHIRE CREAM 

Pour whole milk into a large pan and allow to stand until the cream has 
risen to the top. Scald the milk without disturbing the cream. Remove from 
the fire, and when cold the cream may be taken off in a thick clotted condition. 
It has a delicious nutty flavour. This is very popular in England. 

SOUR CREAM SALAD DRESSING 

Beat one cup sour cream until stiff. Add lemon or pineapple juice for 
flavouring. 

This is delicious served with fruit salad and may also be served with green 
vegetable salads. 

SALAD DRESSING 
i teP- saH Yolk- of 2 eg 

1 top. mustard x e vinegar or lemoa juice 

li U»p. s.lg;,.' 1 tbg| 

- t.bsp. flour | c . milk 

row grains cayenne 

Mix the dry ingredients and add the slightly beaten egg yolks Stir in the 
milk and cook, stirring constantly, until thick. Add the butter and stir in the 
vinegar or lemon juice very slowly. Strain and cool. 

1. One whole egg may be used instead of two egg yolks. 

2. The egg white may be beaten until stiff and folded into the dressing when 
cool. 

3. If desired, the dressing may be thinned with cream. 

LEMON RL1TER RALLS 

_ _ Mix one-half cup butter until soft and creamy and gradually add lemon 
juice to flavour. Form into round balls. If desired, mil in finelv chopped 
parsley. Serve with fish or broiled steak. 

BUTTER 

THERE is no real substitute for butter. Butter is made from cream and is 
80 *>er cent fat— not merely fat, but fat which contains the necessary 
factor, Fat-soluble A. No other fat, with the exception of cod liver oil and to 
some extent, beef suet, supplies this growth essential. For this reason, no other 
fat can take the place of butter. 



15 

Dr. E. V. McCollum by experimentally feeding animals of the same spe< 
and of the same age purified diets which differed only in the form of fat given. 
found that "growth could Lie secured only when the fat in the mixture was butter 
fat, whereas no growth could be secured when the butter fat was replaced by 
lard, olive oil or other vegetable fat." 

If other fats are used in place of butter for the children, more milk ami 
cream in their diet is essential. 

As a source of energy, one pound of butter is equal to 4-^ pounds beefsteak 
or 38 eggs, and although other fats sold as butter substitutes are equal in energy 
producing value, no substance which does not contain the vital growth element 
can substitute butter fat in the child's diet. 



"There is no substitute for butter fat." — Dr. Sherman, Columbia University. 



SKIM-MILK 

ALL the "good" of the milk is not taken off with the cream — far from it. 
Cream is whole milk with a high percentage of fat. Skim-milk is whole 
milk with most of the fat removed. It contains all the other constituents of 
milk — protein, milk sugar, mineral matter, Water-soluble B and G and even a 
little Fat-soluble A. It will build bone, blood and muscle as surely as will 
whole milk and is one of the cheapest sources of protein available. 

Protein foods are. as a rule, expensive, one exception being skim-milk ami 
its products, such as cottage cheese. One and a half quarts of skim-milk will 
supply as much protein as one-half pound of lean beef — compare the cost of 
these two articles. 

Skim-milk will at lowest cost also supply lime so necessary for the forma- 
tion of bone and teeth. The farmer i~ well aware of the worth of skim-milk 
and buttermilk in the feeding of young animals and this is pointed out by Prof. 
Harcourt as one great testimony to their nutritive value. 

It is not so delicious in flavour as whole milk, but it can be used in com- 
bination with other food materials in puddings, in cakes, in sauces, soups, etc. 
A little extra butter can be added to a recipe if desired. 

Skim-milk cannot altogether take the place of whole milk in the diet on 
account of the lack of sufficient Fat-soluble A, but remember that it is good 
food. Do not waste it. 

COTTAGE CHEESE 

2 qt. sour milk Pepper 

1 tsp. salt 3 t.bsp. cream 

Pour the milk into the top part of a double boiler and let stand in hot water 
until it separates into curds and whey. Strain through a double cheese cloth 
over a dish. Put the curd into a bowl, mix well and add the seasonings and 
cream. Cool and serve on lettuce leaves. 

One and one-half tablespoon of butter may be used instead of cream. 

The cheese may he formed into small round balls and rolled in finely 
chopped parsley. These make an attractive salad alone or in combination with 
vegetables or fruits. 

If cheese is preferred with sweets such as fruit juice or jam, the pepper 
may be omitted and less salt used. 

Cottage cheese with the addition of chopped nuts or chopped olives, makes 
a good filling for sandwiches. 



16 

TOMATO AND COTTAGE CHEESE SALAD 

Select medium sized ripe tomatoes. Peel and remove some of the pulp. 
Sprinkle with salt and fill with seasoned cottage cheese. Serve on crisp lettuce 
leaves with salad dressing. 

PINEAPPLE AND COTTAGE CHEESE SALAD 

Plait slices of pineapple on lettuce leaves. Place a ball or small mould of 
cottage cheese in the centre and garnish with chopped nuts or olives. This is 
delicious served with sour cream salad dressing. 

LEMON WHEY 

Add the juice of one lemon and five tablespoons of sugar to the whey which 
drains off the curd when making cottage cheese from one quart of milk." Strain 
and serve hot or cold. 

SPOON BREAD 
2 c. corn meal 1 tbsp. butter 

i tsp. salt 1 egg 

1 c. sour milk or buttermilk A tap. soda 

Mix the corn meal, salt and butter with enough warm water to make a 
smooth paste. Add the beaten egg and sour milk and soda. Beat until smooth. 
Pour into a hot well buttered pan and bake quickly in a hot oven. Serve hot 
with butter. 

SOUR MILK 

DO not throw away sour milk. All milk will sour naturally after a certain 
time. This is not a sign that milk is spoiled. The souring is due to harmless 
bacteria which act on the milk sugar, producing lactic acid. The acid acts on 
the protein and the milk gradually separates into curds and whey. The food 
value of milk is not destroyed because it has soured. It is a cheap and important 
source of protein and can be used to make many delicious dishes, such as cottage 
cheese, one pound of which contain- as much protein as one pound of meat. 
Who does not like sour milk biscuits and griddle cakes 

BUTTERMILK 

BUTTERMILK is the curdled milk which remains when butter is churned 
from cream. It can also be made from skim-milk by allowing it to sour 
naturally at ordinary room temperature until it curdles, then shaking vigorously 
until the curd is broken up. Cooling immediately will prevent further fermenta- 
tion and the development of objectionable flavours. A little cream may be added 
before serving if desired and the flavour will be very similar to old-fashioned 
buttermilk. Practically all commercial buttermilk is prepared from skim-milk 
and, chemically, there is no difference between this buttermilk and that which 
comes from a churn. From a dietetic standpoint, it is of equal importance. 

The food value of buttermilk is about the same as that of skim-milk or 
sour milk and, like skim-milk, it is a particularly cheap source of protein. It is 
easily digested and is often prescribed by doctors for babies with weak digestion 
and for older people as a beverage in certain disorders. The delicious flavour of 
buttermilk is far famed. 



"Milk is without doubt our most important foodstuff, because the composition 
of milk is such that when used in combination with other foodstuffs of either animal 

or vegetable origin, it corrects their dietary deficiencies.'' — Dr. E. V. McCoUum. 

"Farmers who Bell nil or nearly all their milk and cream to other ind let 

their own children go without, are wronging their childn n and di priving them of their 
indispcrJsable food — the only food th<y can thrive and grow strong on." — Dr. Helen 
MacMurchy, Former Chief, Child Welfurt Division, Department of Health, <> 



17 

SOUR MILK BISCUIT 

2 c. flour Bail 

2 tbsp. butter 1 tap. sugar 

i tsp. soda Sour milk to moist ■ ' i cup) 

Sift the dry ingredients. Cut in the butter evenly. Add the milk to make 
a stiff dough. Roll and bake in a hot oven about 15 minutes. 

The dough should be handled as quickly as possible and mixed only enough 
to blend the ingredients. 

SOUR MILK GINGER BREAD 

1 c. mol- 2 tsp. gil 

1 c. sour milk ]> tap. sail 

2J c. flour i tbsp. melted butter 

lj tsp. soda 

Mix soda with sour milk and molasses. Sift the dry ingredients and combine 

the two mixtures. Add the melted butter. Beat. Pour into a greased tin and 
bake in a moderate oven about 25 minutes. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD 

4 tbap. butter 2 tsp. cocoa 1 tsp. ginger 

c. sugar i c. sour milk i tsp. cinnamon 

1 egg li e. flour i tsp. salt 

1 c. molasses i tsp. soda 1 tsp. allspice 

Cream the butter. Add the sugar, beaten egg, molasses and milk. Sift 
together the dry ingredients and combine mixtures. Beat and bake in a moderate 
oven about 30 minutes. 

SOUR MILK GRIDDLE CAKES 

2\ c. flour H tap. soda 

j tap. salt 1 i -- 

2 c .sour milk 2 tbsp. melted butter 

Mix and silt the dry ingredients. Add the sour milk, melted butter and well 
beaten egg. Beat thoroughly and drop by spoonfuls on a hot greased girdle. 
When well puffed and cooked' on the edges, turn carefully and cook on the other 
side. 

Never turn a griddle cake twice or it will be heavy. 

WAFFLES 

i c. milk 

1 c. sour milk or buttermilk 1 egg yolk 

1| c. flour 1 egg white 

2i tsp. baking powder '- tbap. melted butter 

i tsp. soda 

Sift together the flour, baking powder, salt and soda. Combine sweet and 
sour milk. Add the unbeaten egg yolk and the sifted dry ingredients, then add 
the melted butter and beat thoroughly. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg white and 
cook on a hot greased waffle iron. Serve with lemon syrup or maple syrup. 

MILK POWDER 

NEARLY all milk powders are made from skim-milk, although recently some 
whole milk i> also being used for their manufacture. All, or almost all, 
of the water is removed, leaving only the milk solids. It is convenient and, in 
the case of skim-milk powder, keeps in good condition for a long time. 

Powders made from whole milk do not keep well, as it is difficult to prevent 
the butter fat from becoming rancid. If used while fresh, they can be diluted to 
very closely resemble original milk. 



18 

CONDENSED MILK 

CONDENSED milk ie whole milk from which much of the water has been 
evaporated and to which a certain amount of sugar has been added. 
It is a convenient product, especially useful where fresh milk is not avail- 
able. It is not bulky, can be easily carried and has excellent keeping qualities, 
partly due to the extra sugar added. 

Condensed milk can be bought in cans of various sizes and can be used, after 
dilution with water, in much the same way as whole milk. The high percentage 
of sugar makes it unsuitable as a permanent diet for babies. 

EVAPORATED MILK 

EVAPORATED milk is whole milk, less about one-half of the water and 
without the addition of extra sugar. It will keep indefinitely while 
unopened, but when exposed to the air should be treated as fresh milk. 

If these are the only forms of milk given to children for any length of time, 
it is important to add fresh fruit juice to the diet, as these contain the Water- 
soluble C which is probably destroyed in the process of evaporating water from 
milk in the manufacture of milk powder, condensed and evaporated milk. 

PASTEURIZED MILK 

THE object in pasteurizing milk is to destroy disease germs which may get 
into the milk either from a diseased cow or in some other way. The genus 
of tuberculosis, diptheria and other diseases are rendered harmless by proper and 
thorough pasteurization. Milk which has been pasteurized should not be kept 
longer than 24 hours before being used. In many cities, compulsory pasteuriza- 
tion ie in force as a safeguard of the public health. 

Milk can quite easily be pasteurized at home if it has not already been done 
at the dairy. No elaborate or expensive equipment is necessary. If milk is 
bought in bottles, pour out a little and replace the caps. Make' a hole in the 
paper cap of one bottle and through this insert a small glass dairy thermometer. 
Set the bottles on a clean folded towel in a tin pail and around this pour warm 
water until it reaches nearly as high as the top of the bottles. (If the bottles 
are placed directly on the bottom of the pail, or if very hot water is poured 
around them, there is danger of the glas- breaking.) Place the pail over a fire 
and heat until the thermometer in the bottle registers 145 degrees F. Remove 
from the fire and let the bottles stand in the water for 30 minutes, reheating if 
necessary to keep the temperature at 145 degrees F. After 30 minutes pour in 
cold water to replace the hot water around the bottles and cool the milk as 
quickly as possible to 50 degrees F. Keep as cold as possible until used. 

If there is no thermometer at hand, milk may be pasteurized in the same 
way by heating the water around the bottles until a little below boiling point, 
Let stand in this water for 30 minutes and replace by cold water as rapidly as 

ible. 

On the farm where milk is not bottled, it can be pasteurized in glass jars. 
The jars should first be thoroughly washed and sterilized. An ice box is best for 
k( eping milk. 

CHEESE 



"From the standpoint of the housekeeper, cheese is of importance because of its 
high nutritive value, particularly its high percentage of protein or muscle-forming 
materials, because of the ease with which it can be kept and prepared for the table, 
and because of its appetizing flavour and of the great variety of ways in which it can 
be served." — Dr. C. F. Languor! hy. United State* Department oj Affrieul 



For information regarding the food value of cheese and recipes for using it, 
refer to Bulletin "Why and How to T T s C Cheese." published by the Dairy and 
Cold Storage Branch, Department of Agriculture. Ottawa. 



19 




no leaving, Doggi - ice cream." 



ICE CREAM 

HAVE you thought of ice cream as merely a luxury? It is a real food. 
Besides containing all the nourishment of milk and cream, from which it 
is made, it is one of the most delicious desserte and a general favourite with 
young and old. It is oi special value in the sick room, because it tempts the 
appetite of the invalid and provides nourishment in a form that is easily digested. 
Do not forget the food value of ice cream. Serve it often. The children love it, 
and they, as well as the rest of your family, will benefit. 

Ice cream is on sale in most places, but if not available, it can be made at 
home without much trouble and with very little exp* 



SOME HINTS FOR MAKING ICE CREAM 

1. The can and dasher of the freezer should be -raided and cooled before 
pouring in the mixture to be frozen. 

2. The freezer crank should be turned steadily and evenly. 

3. Salt and ice are required for freezing. Snow may be used instead of ice 
and. if not readily acted on by the salt, can be remedied by pouring in one cup 
of cold water. 

4. About one-sixth as much salt as ice, by measure, is best for making 
smooth grained ice cream. • 

5. The mixture increases in hulk during freezing and, for this reason, the 
can should never be more than three-quarters full. 



20 



MILK SHERBET 



1 Qt. milk Juice of 3 lemon3 

li c. sugar 

Mix sugar and lemon juice and stir in the milk gradually. (The mixture 
will have a curdled appearance, but this will disappear in the freezing.) Pour 
into the freezer can, pack and turn until it freezes. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM, No 1 

1 qt. cream 1 tbsp. vanilla 

j c. sugar 

Add sugar and vanilla to cream. Freeze and serve. When the mixtu; 
partly frozen, crushed fruit may be added, such as strawberries, peaches, 
bananas, or shredded pineapple. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM, No 2 

3 c. scalded milk 1 c. sugar 

1 egg 3 c. thin cream 

1 tbsp. flour 1 tbsp. vanilla 

Mix the flour and sugar together, add the slightly beaten egg ami stir in the 
milk gradually. Cook over hot water about 15 minutes, strain and cool. Add 
the cream and flavouring. Freeze and serve. 

GINGER ICE CREAM 

To vanilla ice cream No. 2. add one-half cup finely chopped Canton ginger 
and three tablespoons ginger syrup, when the mixture is partly frozen. 

ORANGE ICE CREAM 

2 c. cream r to taste 
2 c. orange juiee 

Stir the orange juice and cream together. Add sugar and freeze. 

BITTERMILK ICE CREAM 

1 qt. buttermilk J e. orange or other fruit juice 

li C. sugar x c le mon j u j ce 

1 i nu 
Beat the egg thoroughly, then beat in the sugar and buttermilk until the 

sugar is dissolved. When the mixture is partly frozen, add the fruit juice and 

finish freezing. Repack and let stand one hour to mellow. 

MILK FOR INVALIDS 

PROPER diet is very important for healthy persons and it is doubly so in 
case of sickness and during convalescence. The amount of food and the 
form in which it is supplied play a large part in the recovery of the patient. 

Milk is of inestimable value in the sick room and as a rule is the main 
source of nourishment. It is always, or nearly always, procurable. It is inex- 
pensive, nutritious, easily digested and the variety of ways in which it can be 
served prevent the patient becoming tired of it. 

Wlien liquid diet alone is allowed, milk is the chief food served either in 
its natural state or in the form of thin gruels, thin soups, egg nogs, junket, jelly 
and ice cream. The last three forms very often appeal strongly to the capricious 
appetite ot an invalid, particularly if the patient is a child. Buttermilk. Kounii- 
and Peptonized Milk are sometime*? of special value in certain cases. 

If a more varied diet is permissible, other foods may be added, but milk 
should always hold the chief place. The cure of tuberculosis and many other 
diseases depends in large measure on a generous supply of pure, rich milk and 
eggs. 



21 

With the exception of cheese, milk and milk products are the most important 
foods in the invalid's diet. 

When preparing food for an invalid, remember that good food properly and 
attractively served aids immeasurably the progress toward renewed health. 



"The well-known dietary rule of a quart of milk a day for every child, already 
amply justified by practical results, has received additional support from several angles 
through the recent advances in our knowledge of the chemistry of nutrition." — Dr. 
Sherman, Columbia University. 



KOUMISS 

1 qt. milk 1 tbsp. lukewarm water 

J yeast cake H tbsp. sugar 

Dissolve yeast cake in the lukewarm water. Heat the milk until lukewarm. 
Add the sugar and the yeast cake. Fill thick glass bottles within about two 
inches of the top. Cork tightly and tie down the cork with strong twine. Shake 
thoroughly and let stand inverted for about six hours at a temperature of 80 
degrees F. Chill thoroughly. Serve the following day. 

PEPTONIZED MILK 

1 pt. fresh milk 1 tube FairchikTs peptonizing powder 

i c. cold water 

Put the powder and water into a sterilized bottle. Shake thoroughly and 
add the milk. Shake and place the bottle in water about 115 degrees F. Let 
stand 10 minutes, then place the bottle immediately on ice, or heat to boiling 
point. Either immediate and thorough chilling, or heating to boiling tempera- 
ture will check further digestion of the milk. Keep in a cold place until used. 

If allowed to stand longer than 10 minute- before being chilled or heated 
to boiling point, the milk will have a bitter taste. 

ALBUMENIZED MILK 

i c. milk 1 or 2 egg whites 

Add the egg whites to the milk and beat very slowly with a Dover egg- 
beater. Strain and flavour if desired. Serve cold. 

EGG NOG 

1 egg Flavouring 

3 c. milk Few grains salt 

2 tsp. sugar 

Beat the egg slightly and to this add the salt, sugar and flavouring. Stir 
in the milk. Strain and chill. The egg may be separated and the white beaten 
until stiff. Part of this may be folded into the egg and milk mixture and the 
remaining part piled lightly on the top. It may be sprinkled with a grating of 
nutmeg. 

OATMEAL GRUEL 

$ c. coarse oatmeal Salt 

\ c. oatmeal Milk or cream 

Add the salt to the water and, when boiling, stir in the oatmeal and cook 
over the fire stirring frequently for about five minutes. Put in a double boiler 
and let cook about two hours. Strain and add hot milk or cream. 

Left over porridge may be used if reheated, strained and diluted with milk 
or cream. 



22 

MILK FOR BABIES 

EVERY baby must have milk. It is the only food for the first nine months 
of life and after that age should be the chief food during childhood. 

Not only does milk sustain the life of the baby, but it promotes rapid 
growth. It is known that mother's milk is a perfect food, but sometimes for 
various reasons this must be substituted by other milk. Because cows are the 
most common of any milk producing animal, their milk is most used. But cow's 
milk differs somewhat from mother's milk. It must be modified to resemble it 
as closely as possible. Cow's milk contains less sugar and about three times as 
much protein. The deficiency in sugar can be made up by the simple addition 
of milk sugar or cane sugar. Diluting the milk will more nearly approximate 
the proportion of protein. A doctor will explain how this should be done. 

Mother's milk is best, but remember that babies must have milk, the purest, 
the cleanest and best available. The child is a most precious possession. 




23 



INDEX TO SUBJECTS 



Page 

Butter 14 

Buttermilk 16 

Carbohydrates in Milk 7 

Care of Milk in the Home 12 

Cheese 18 

Condensed Milk 18 

Cream 13 

Digestibility of Milk 11 

Evaporated Milk 18 

Ice Cream 19 



Page 

Milk for Babies 22 

Milk for Invalids 20 

Milk Powder 17 

Mineral Matter in Milk 6 

Protein in Milk 5 

Skim Milk 15 

Sour Milk 16 

Value of Milk 4 

Vitamines in Milk 9 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Page 

AJbumenized Milk 21 

Barley Pudding 12 

Biscuits 17 

Blanc Mange 10 

Butter Balls 14 

Cheese Crackers 7 

Chowders 8 

Cottage Cheese 15 

i n im: 

Devonshire 14 

Whipped n 

rds: 

Baked 11 

Sauce 11 

Pie 11 

Crouton 7 

Devonshire Cream 14 

Egg Nog 21 

Ginger Bread 17 

Griddle Cakes 17 

Gruel, Oatmeal 21 

Ice Cream 19 

Invalid Cookery 20 

Jelly, Ivory 10 

Junket 10 

Koumiss 21 



Page 

Lemon Whey 16 

Milk with Cereal 10 

Milk Sherbet 20 

Milk Toast 10 

Oatmeal Gruel 21 

Oyster Stew 9 

Pasteurized Milk 18 

Peptonized Milk 21 

Pie, Custard 11 

Rice Pudding 12 

Salads 16 

Salad Dressing n 

3aui es : 

Bread 5 

( iheese 4 

Egg 5 

Parsley 5 

Sherbet, Milk 20 

Soups 6 

jh Cream 13 

Spoon Bread 16 

Tapioca Cream 13 

Toast, Milk 10 

Waffles 17 

Whipped Cream 14 

Whey, Lemon 16 




OTTAWA 

J. O. PATENAUDE, I.S.O. 

PRINTER TO THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY 

1936 



