League of Nations 

The problem of nutrition. 
vol.1. Interim Report of the 
Mixed Committee on the problem 
of nutrition. 1956. 






LEAGUE OF NATIONS 



THE PROBLEM OF NUTRITION 



VOLUME I. 

INTERIM REPORT OF THE MIXED COMMITTEE 
ON THE PROBLEM OF NUTRITION 




. ' ; :■- ; 



LEAGUE OF NATIONS 

Publications dealing with the Problem of 

NUTRITION 

THE PROBLEM OF NUTRITION 

Vol. II. Report on the Physiological Bases of Nutrition drawn 
up by the Technical Commission of the Health 
Committee at the meeting held in London (November 
25th-2o,th, 1935), revised and amplified at the meeting 
held at Geneva (June 4th-8th, 1936). (Ser. L.o.N. 
P. 1936.ILB.4.) Price : U. $0.15 

In the press 

Vol. III. Nutrition in Various Countries. (Ser. L.o.N. P. 1936. 
ILB.5.) 

In preparation 

Vol. IV. Statistics of Food Production, Consumption and Prices. 

Documentation prepared by the International 
Institute of Agriculture, presented to the Mixed 
Committee on the Problem of Nutrition, June 1936. 

Published previously 

Nutrition and Public Health, by Et. Burnet aijd W. R. 
Aykroyd. (Off-print No. 2 from the Quarterly Bulletin 
of the Health Organisation, Vol. IV, No. 2, June 1935.) 
152 pages. Price : if- $0.50 

Nutrition considered in relation to Public Health and to 
Economic Conditions. "League of Nations Questions", 
No. 4. (Information Section Pamphlet.) 
24 pages. Price : C)d. $0.15 



LEAGUE OF NATIONS 
PUBLICATIONS DEPARTMENT 
GENEVA (Switzerland) 



L 



[Communicated to the Assembly, 
the Council and the Members of 
the League.] 



Official No.: A. 12. 1936. II. B. 



Geneva, June 24th, 1936. 



LEAGUE OF NATIONS 



1 ' » 



THE PROBLEM OF NUTRITION 



VOLUME I. 



INTERIM REPORT OF THE MIXED COMMITTEE 
ON THE PROBLEM OF NUTRITION 



Series of League of Nations Publications 

II. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL 

1936. H.B. 3. 



CONTENTS. 



Volume I. 

INTERIM REPORT OF THE MIXED COMMITTEE 
ON THE PROBLEM OF NUTRITION 

Page 

Preface by the Chairman of the Committee 5 

Introduction. 

1 . Action taken on the Decisions of the Last Assembly 7 

2. Character of the Present Report 10 

3 . Nutrition Statistics 11 

4. The Various Volumes of this Report 13 

Chapter I. — General Survey of the Nutrition Problem. 

1. Is there a Nutrition Problem ? 15 

2. The New Teachings of Science 17 

3 . The Health of the Child — the Kernel of the Problem 20 

4. Education and Popular Instruction 21 

(a) Doctors and Hygienists 22 

(b) Education of the General Public 23 

5 . Economic Considerations 24 

6. Agriculture 26 

7 . National Nutrition Policy and Social Welfare 26 

Chapter II. — Nutrition and Health. 

1 . Introduction 31 

2 . The Principles of Correct Nutrition 32 

3. " Energy-bearing " and " Protective " Foods 34 

4 . Special Dietary Needs of Different Classes and Age-groups . . 36 

(a) Expectant and Nursing Mothers 37 

(b) Infants 39 

S. d. N. 2.030 (F.) 2.250 (A.) 7/36. Imp. J. d. G. 



— 4 — 

Page 

(c) Early Childhood, Pre-school Age, Nursery-school Age . 43 

(d) School Age 44 

(e) Adolescence 48 

(/) Young Soldiers 49 

(g) Adults 50 

5 . The Modern Science of Nutrition and the London Report : The 

New Science of Nutrition 53 

6. Dietary Standards adopted in the London Report 55 

(a) Energy Requirements 56 

(b) Protective Foods, Mineral and Vitamin Requirements 57 

(c) Energy-bearing Foods 62 

7. Problems recommended for Further Study 64 

8. Principles of Government Action 66 

Chapter III. — Nutrition and Labour. 

(Survey of the Nutrition Problem by the International Labour 

Office) 69 

1 . Workers' Diets and Under-nourishment 70 

2 . Social and Labour Legislation 73 

Chapter IV. — Some Considerations on the Economic Aspects 

of the Nutrition Problem 77 

Chapter V. — Nutrition and Agriculture. 

1 . Malnutrition among Agricultural Populations 84 

2 . Improved Nutrition and Agricultural Production 87 

3. Can Agricultural Practice be adapted to meet the New 

Requirements of Better Nutrition ? 89 

4 . The Effects of Agricultural Adaptation on the Economics of 

Farming 92 

Chapter VI. — Preliminary Recommendations. . . 96 

Recommendations of the Mixed Committee on the Problem of 

Nutrition 97 



PREFACE BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE COMMITTEE. 

The marked interest which the last Assembly showed in 
nutrition was due, in the first instance, to the realisation of the 
possibilities of great improvements in public health and special 
betterment through better nutrition ; but, while these factors 
were undoubtedly uppermost in the minds of delegates, the 
interest displayed was also due to the fact that, through 
improved nutrition, it should be possible to contribute, first, 
towards a solution of national and international agricultural 
problems and, secondly, towards an improvement in the world 
economic situation. 

Any study of the evidence which can be collected from many 
sources and from many countries compels one to realise : 

The degree to which achievements in these sciences which 
can be applied to agriculture have increased man's control 
over nature and therefore his powers of producing food ; 

The possibilities which this increase in power of production 
opens up for improving the standard of living and general 
well-being of all nations. 

Any study of the world as it is, simultaneously brings one 
face to face with economic difficulties which have to be overcome 
if mankind is to derive full advantage from the potential 
abundance which science can make readily available. 

One is, indeed, forced to realise that there is as great need for 
constructive economic thought as for further immediate progress 
in science. 

At the conclusion of its first meeting, the Mixed Committee 
realised that it would be quite impossible for it to cover the 
immense field which its terms of reference required in time 
to present a comprehensive report to the 1936 Assembly. 

It therefore decided on an interim report and hopes to be 
in a position to continue the study of the many aspects of its 
task and to present a comprehensive report to the Assembly at 
a later date. 



— 6 — 

It hopes that even this interim report will, however, make 
clear to the Assembly that, through national and international 
action towards improved nutrition, it should be possible to go 
some distance towards securing in part the heritage which all 
men are entitled to claim — namely, the possibility of the full 
enjoyment of the achievements of science. 

It is not inappropriate to conclude this brief introduction 
to this report with a quotation from the final presidential 
address of Sir Frederick Gowland Hopkins, the late President of 
the Royal Society of Great Britain, who, referring to the 
prospective work of the Mixed Committee, said : 

" Policies concerned respectively with the production, transport, 
distribution and consumption of foods will all, we may hope, 
be discussed. They seem to be the very proper business of the League, 
and, if discussion goes deep enough and is frank enough, it may well 
do no small service to the interests of peace itself." 

ASTOR, 

Chairman of the Mixed Committee 
on the Problem of Nutrition. 



INTERIM REPORT OF THE MIXED COMMITTEE 
ON THE PROBLEM OF NUTRITION. 



INTRODUCTION. 

i. Action taken on the Decisions of the Last Assembly. 

During the last thirty years or so, and especially since the 
great war, there has been a growth of interest in nutrition 
questions in consequence of social and scientific developments. 
Accordingly, the question of nutrition was taken up several 
years ago by the Health Organisation of the League of Nations, 
which found it desirable to make enquiries in certain countries. 
A report published in its Quarterly Bulletin in June 1935 by 
two of its members, Dr. E. Burnet and Dr. Aykroyd, aroused 
widespread interest. 

At the meeting of the Assembly in September 1935, following 
a request made by twelve delegations, there was a full 
discussion of this problem in relation to public health on the 
one hand and economic and social organisation on the other. 

On being referred to the Second Committee, this problem 
formed the subject of a three-day debate, in which twenty 
delegations took part. As a result of these discussions, the 
Assembly adopted the following resolution : 

' The Assembly, having considered the subject of nutrition in 
relation to public health and of the effects of improved nutrition on 
the consumption of agricultural products, urges Governments to 
examine the practical means of securing better nutrition and requests 
the Council : 

" (1) To invite the Health Organisation of the League of Nations 
to continue and extend its work on nutrition in relation to public 
health ; 

(2) To instruct the technical organisations of the League of 
Nations, in consultation with the International Labour Office and 
the International Institute of Agriculture, to collect, summarise 
and publish information on the measures taken in all countries 
for securing improved nutrition ; and 



— 8 — 

" (3) To appoint a Committee, including agricultural, economic 
and health experts, instructed to submit a general report on the 
whole question, in its health and economic aspects, to the next 
Assembly, after taking into consideration, inter alia, the progress 
of the work carried out in accordance with paragraphs (i) and (2) 
above." 

In June 1935, moreover, the nineteenth session of the 
International Labour Conference had unanimously voted the 
following resolution : 

" Seeing that nutrition adequate both in quantity and quality 
is essential to the health and well-being of the workers and their 
families ; 

" And seeing that in various countries evidence has been brought 
forward to show that large numbers of persons, both in town and 
country, are not sufficiently or suitably nourished ; 

" Seeing, moreover, that an increase in the consumption of 
agricultural foodstuffs would help to raise standards of life and relieve 
the existing depression in agriculture : 

' The Conference welcomes the attention drawn by the Director 
in his report to the problem of nutrition and requests the Governing 
Body to instruct the Office to continue its investigations of the problem, 
particularly in its social aspects, in collaboration with the Health 
and Economic Organisations of the League of Nations, the 
International Institute of Agriculture and other bodies capable of 
contributing to its solution, with a view to presenting a report on the 
subject to the 1936 session of the Conference." 

* 
* * 

To give effect to the first paragraph of the Assembly resolution, 
the Health Committee appointed a Technical Commission, 
which held its first session in London from November 25th to 
29th, 1935, and set forth its findings in document C.H.1197, 
entitled " Report on the Physiological Bases of Nutrition ". 

To give effect to the second paragraph of that same resolution, 
the Secretary-General, in November 1935, requested Govern- 
ments to forward to the Secretariat, in the form of a general 
statement, any information which appeared to them to have 
a direct bearing on the improvement of nutrition. He drew 
the special attention of Governments to a number of parti- 
cular questions : 

(a) The practical measures taken by the central Government and 
by the local authorities to ensure an improved dietary for various 



— 9 — 

population groups, such as : mothers and infants, school-children, 
inmates of institutions, industrial workers and agricultural labourers, 
unemployed, persons in receipt of relief, etc. ; 

(6) The work of private organisations (co-operative societies, 
employers' and workers' associations and the like) in the same field; 

(c) The means at the disposal of the public authorities for testing 
the prevailing level of nutrition, more especially with a view to 
ascertaining whether certain parts of the population are under- 
nourished ; 

{d) The methods employed for the collection of information on 
nutrition and the form in which such information is compiled (by 
occupational groups, income groups, etc.) ; 

(e) The dietary standards laid down for certain groups of persons 
whose food is provided by the public authorities — e.g., army, navy, 
employees and workmen, inmates of institutions, etc. ; 

(/) Action taken by public authorities or private organisations 
to disseminate among the public a knowledge of the principles and 
practice of rational nutrition. 

To give effect to paragraph (3) of the Assembly resolution, 
the Council set up the Mixed Committee on the Problem of 
Nutrition, which held two sessions in February and June 1936 
under the chairmanship of Lord Astor. x Members of the 



1 Composition of the Mixed Committee : 
The Viscount Astor, Member of the House of Lords, Chairman of the Milk-in-Schools Advisory 

(Chairman.) Committee (under the Milk Marketing Board) ; formerly Parliamentary 

Secretary to the Ministry of Food and later to the Ministry of Health. 
Baron G. Acerbo, President of the International Institute of Agriculture ; former Minister ; 

(Representing the Dean of the Economic and Commercial Faculty in Rome University. 

International Institute of 
Agriculture.) 
Professor Thure Bjoerkman, Secretary-General of the Royal Agricultural Academy, Stockholm. 
M. C B. Bramsnaes, Director of the National Bank of Denmark ; former Finance Minister, 

(Representing the Copenhagen. 

International Labour Office.) 
M. Ramon Cantos, Former Deputy in the Cortes, Madrid. 

M. Leon Dupriez, Secretary-General of the Belgian Economic Recovery Office ; Professor 

of Political Economy at Louvain University ; Director of the Institute 
of Economic Sciences at Louvain, Belgium. 
Dr. L. Feierabend, President of the Grain Monopoly, Prague. 

M. Casimir Fudakowski, Senator ; former President of the Polish Federation of Chambers of 

Agriculture ; Vice-President of the International Agricultural 
Commission ; Member of the Economic Committee of the International 
Institute of Agriculture, Warsaw. 
M. Enrique J. Gajardo, Head of the Permanent Bureau of Chile at the seat of the League of Nations. 

(Representing the Child 
Welfare Committee.) 
M. Jules Gautier, Vice-President of the International Agricultural Commission, Paris. 

Continued on the next page 



— 10 — 

Technical Commission of the Health Committee, and 
representatives of the International Labour Office and of the 
International Institute of Agriculture sit on the Mixed 
Committee, whose title emphasises the diversity of the interests 
bound up in the problem of nutrition. 

2. Preliminary Character of the Present Report. 

After its first session, the Mixed Committee was able to 
obtain some idea of the extent and complexity of the questions 
into which it had to enquire. 

The problem of nutrition is by no means identical in 
all countries. There are considerable differences between 
communities, both in the degree and nature of malnutrition 



Continued from previous page : 

M. Edo Markovic, General Manager of the Privileged Joint Stock Company for the Export 

of Products of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, Belgrade. 
Professor E. V. McCollum, Professor of Biochemistry, School of Hygiene and Public Health, Johns 

Hopkins University, Baltimore, United States of America. 
Mr. F. L. McDougall, Economic Adviser to the Australian Government, London. 

Professor Dr. Ed. Mellanby, Secretary-General of the Medical Research Council, London. 
M. G. de Michelis, Ambassador ; Senator ; Member of the National Research Council, etc., 

Rome. 
Professor Edwin G. Nourse, Director of the Institute of Economics, Brookings Institution, Washington. 
Dr. Carlos A. Pardo, Commercial Counsellor at the Argentine Legation in Switzerland, Berne. 

M. H. Queuille, Senator ; former Minister of Agriculture and former Minister of Public 

Health, Paris. 
M. van Rijn, Vice-President of the International Institute of Agriculture, Rome. 

(Representing the Internatio- 
nal Institute of Agriculture.) 
M. Stevens, Engineer; Inspector of Agriculture ; Head of the Agricultural and Economic 

Information Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, The Hague. 
Miss Faith Williams, Chief of the " Cost of Living Division", Department of Labour, Washington. 

(Representing the Interna- 
tional Labour Office.) 



M. Halbwachs, Professor at the Sorbonne, Paris, took the place of Miss Faith Williams at the first 
session, and of M. Bramsnaes at the second session. 

M. Jan Wszelaki, Economic Counsellor at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Warsaw, took the place of 
M. Fudakowski at the first session. 

Mr. Warren C. Waite, Professor at Minnesota University (United States of America), and Mr. Harold 
B. Rowe, of the Brookings Institution, Washington, took the place of Professor Nourse, the former at the 
first session and the latter at the second session. 

M. de Michelis and Baron Acerbo did not attend the second session. 

The representatives of the International Institute of Agriculture were assisted by : 

M. Auge-Laribe, representing France and the French colonies on the Permanent Committee 

of the Institute. 
M. Brizi, Secretary-General of the Institute. 

M. Dore, Head of the Bureau of General Statistics. 

Dr. Pavlovsky, Head of the Bureau of Economic and Social Studies. 



— II — 

and in the extent to which the national resources would allow 
of improvements. In every country, therefore, there is a problem 
to be solved, a defect to be corrected, a task to be undertaken. 

On consideration of the studies and investigations so far 
undertaken by the Secretariat of the League (especially the 
Health Section), the International Labour Office and the 
International Institute of Agriculture, the Mixed Committee 
has been forced to recognise that it is impossible to cover at the 
outset the vast field of work embraced by the terms of reference 
given to it by the Assembly. 

Knowledge of the conditions and of the means of action 
available in Europe and in countries of Western civilisation is 
already sufficient to enable a practical study of nutrition to be 
begun at once. In the Far East, in Asia and in Africa, however, 
preliminary investigations need to be undertaken, and hence the 
enquiries instituted on behalf of the Mixed Committee have been 
limited so far to the countries of European and Western civilisa- 
tion. Arrangements for investigations in tropical regions and Far- 
Eastern countries have already been started by the League 
Health Organisation, and the Mixed Committee desires to 
draw the Assembly's attention to this fact and hopes that the 
Governments concerned will give their full support to this work. 

The Committee has accordingly decided to lay before the 
1936 Assembly a preliminary report, but hopes to be in a 
position to submit a general report to a later Assembly. 

Since it is clear that the whole nutritional question depends 
upon the relation of adequate nutrition to public health, the 
Mixed Committee decided that, in this interim report, it 
was essential to study this aspect of the problem as fully as 
circumstances permitted. It has therefore devoted a major part 
of this report to Nutrition and Health (see Chapter II). It has 
only been able to place on record its preliminary observations 
on the economic and agricultural aspects of the problem, but 
hopes to be in a position to elaborate them in its final report. 

3. Nutrition Statistics. 

The Mixed Committee has found it necessary to give special 
attention to the availability of adequate statistical information, 



12 



desiring that its findings and recommendations should be based 
upon a firm foundation. 

Accordingly, the Mixed Committee enlisted the help of the 
International Institute of Agriculture, and set up a Sub- 
Committee on Nutritional Statistics, which met at the 
International Institute of Agriculture in March 1936. * 

Statistical evidence is of special importance for the 
measurement of the adequacy or deficiency of the nutrition 
of different categories of persons in any country ; for estimating 
the trend of national consumption of different foodstuffs and 
changes in popular dietary habits ; for estimating the additional 
demand for food products which would be entailed by an 
improvement in the prevailing level of consumption in any 
country. 

Unfortunately, the Sub-Committee found that nutrition 
statistics are very often incomplete or defective, and that this 
is especially true of some kinds of food, such as milk, vegetables 
and fruit, with the consumption of which the Committee's 
enquiries are most closely concerned. 2 

In spite of these difficulties, the Sub-Committee asked the 
International Institute of Agriculture : 

(a) To furnish such information as exists on the consumption 
of cereals, sugar, meat, milk and other dairy products, poultry and 
eggs, fresh vegetables and fruit ; 

(b) To show as far as possible the trends of production, 
consumption and prices of these products in those countries for which 
reasonably complete statistics are available ; 



1 The report of the Sub-Committee will be found at the end of Volume III. 

2 It is shown, for example, that, while the statistics for the production of cereals are fairly complete, it is 
difficult to obtain good statistics of consumption. The data on sugar production and consumption are 
adequate. Those on such an essential commodity as milk, on the contrary, are very imperfect, as very few 
countries possess regular annual returns of milk production. The total production figures are often arrived at 
indirectly from the number of milch cows and the estimated average yield per cow. As these yields vary 
greatly, the margin of error in these statistics is serious. The absence of adequate production statistics 
makes it impossible to obtain reliable estimates of national consumption. Statistics on butter and cheese are 
slightly more satisfactory than those on milk, but they are nevertheless inadequate. There are reliable 
statistics on poultry and eggs for only a very small number of countries. The statistics on potato 
production are fairly complete and accurate, but it is difficult to obtain statistics of consumption. It is 
very difficult to obtain statistics of the production of fresh vegetables, as such large quantities are grown 
in gardens. The position with regard to certain vegetables, such as onions and tomatoes, is more satisfac- 
tory in a few countries which produce large quantities. The consumption of exotic fruits can be estimated 
from the foreign trade figures ; only rudimentary information is available for apples, pears, etc. 



— 13 — 

(c) To obtain municipal data on the quantities of milk and fresh 
vegetables entering large cities and to utilise these data to supplement 
the information referred to under (a) and (6) ; 

(d) To continue its established policy of improving agricultural 
statistics, giving special attention to the deficiencies in the material 
now available on the protective foods 1 , and to draw the attention 
of each Government to the particular directions in which improvement 
is desirable ; 

(e) To collect data bearing on the financial aspects of the assistance 
received by the national agriculture of various countries and on the 
effects of such assistance on the production, imports and exports of 
foods ; 

(/) To collect and study wholesale and retail prices, particularly 
of the protective foods, and to relate such price data to the trends in 
production and consumption in various countries. 



4. The Various Volumes of this Report. 

This report to the Assembly comprises four volumes : 

Volume I, Interim Report of the Mixed Committee on the 
Problem of Nutrition (the present volume), is the report proper, 
embodying the suggestions made by the Mixed Committee to 
the Assembly and giving a general idea of the problems involved. 

Volume II, Report on the Physiological Bases of Nutrition, 
contains a report drawn up by the Technical Commission of 
the Health Committee. 

This Commission first met in London in November 1935. 
The conclusions arrived at were submitted to the first session 
of the Mixed Committee and formed the starting-point of its 
consideration of the scientific aspect of the nutrition problem 
(see Chapter II below). This is now presented in a revised and 
amplified form as a result of a meeting held by the Technical 
Commission in June 1935. 

Volume III, Nutrition in Various Countries, gives the 
substance of the actual data received by the Committee, 
including the essential portion of the information contained 



1 See Chapter II. 



— 14 — 

in the replies of certain Governments to the Secretary-General's 
Circular Letter of November 30th, 1935. It also contains a 
survey of developments in popular dietaries in a number of 
countries since the war. 

In addition, there will be found in this volume the report of 
the Sub-Committee appointed by the Mixed Committee to 
examine the available statistical material concerning the 
consumption of foodstuffs. 

Volume IV, Statistics of Food Production, Consumption 
and Prices : A Documentation prepared by the International 
Institute of Agriculture, contains a valuable documentation 
assembled by the Institute at the request of the Mixed Committee, 
reviewing the available statistics of food production, 

consumption and prices. 

* 
* * 

Reference may also be made to the report submitted by 
the International Labour Office to this year's session of the 
International Labour Conference, entitled " Workers' Nutrition 
and Social Policy " ,* a brief account of which will be found in 
Chapter V below. This report makes an important contribution 
to the material now available for the study of the nutrition 
problem. 



1 International Labour Office : Studies and Reports, Series B (Social and Economic Conditions), No. 23 : 
" Workers' Nutrition and Social Policy ", Geneva, 1936, 249 pages. 



Chapter I. 

GENERAL SURVEY OF THE NUTRITION PROBLEM. 



i. Is there a Nutrition Problem ? 

Leaving the more backward countries out of account for the 
time being, we have to ask at the outset of this enquiry whether 
there is, in fact, in the countries of Europe and those of Western 
civilisation in other continents a general or widespread deficiency 
in popular nutrition. 

Evidence on this question has been received from many sources. 
First of all should be mentioned the authoritative statement 
of the Technical Commission of the Health Organisation. The 
members of this Commission express their agreement with the 
conclusions of the Burnet-Aykroyd report that " deficiencies 
in important nutrients are a common feature of modern diets 
and that these deficiencies usually occur in the protective foods 
(foods rich in minerals and vitamins) rather than in the energy- 
giving foods (proteins, fats and carbohydrates) ". 

Governments' replies to the questions submitted to them by 
the Secretariat contain much information as to the state of 
nutrition in a large number of countries. This information has 
been amplified by statements received from members of the 
Mixed Committee on Nutrition, while more detailed examination 
of the results of special studies and scientific investigations 
has been made by the International Labour Office. In some 
countries, investigations of great importance have recently 
been undertaken. The volume of available information is thus, 
in the aggregate, considerable and comprehensive. The evidence 
that inadequacy of diet is widespread is conclusive. Malnutrition 
is manifest in the prevalence of rickets, scurvy, poor musculature, 
teeth of poor structure, anaemia, chronic fatigue, poor condition 
of the skin and subnormal growth and weight, to mention the 
more easily observable symptoms. 

In examining the evidence, it is at once clear that the nutri- 
tion problem takes very different forms according to the 



— 16 — 

circumstances of particular countries. There is, unfortunately, 
in many countries a nutrition problem due to the world crisis 
and the diminution of normal economic and commercial 
activity, resulting in widespread distress. 

Over large areas of both agricultural and industrial countries 
are to be found distressed groups of population, especially 
where the incidence of the depression has been most severe. This 
is true even in such well-to-do countries as the United Kingdom 
and the United States of America. 

Defective nutrition among wide sections of the population 
is not, however, limited to countries or areas specially affected 
by the economic crisis, such as impoverished urban communities 
or depressed agricultural areas. In the light of modern know- 
ledge, it is abundantly clear that in no country does the whole 
population attain the standard scientifically desirable in the 
interests of health. Much exact information exists as to dietary 
habits of different sections of the population in a number of 
individual countries, and on the basis of such evidence it is 
manifest that defective nutrition is to be found among large 
sections of the population even in well-to-do countries, with the 
inevitable consequence of the prevalence of deficiency and the 
unsatisfactory standard of physique of the population as a 
whole. The high proportion of rejections on physical grounds 
of recruits for the army, even in well-to-do countries, is a typical 
illustration of a situation which prevails widely. 

In the United States of America, it was thought, until recently, 
that the standard of life was high, especially having regard to recent 
improvements in the popular dietary, more especially with regard to 
the consumption of milk and other protective foodstuffs. Nevertheless, 
recent enquiries by scientific workers have shown that a number of 
persons are insufficiently fed and a much larger number badly fed. Even 
in 1928-29, which was a period of great prosperity, most families were 
living on inadequate diets. Since the economic depression, the position 
has become worse. 

In the United Kingdom, a recently published report 1 on the adequacy 
of diet in relation to income shows that, dividing the population into 
six groups according to income, the average diet of the lowest income 
group, representing 10% of the total population, is inadequate for 
perfect health in all of the constituents considered. The diet of the next 



" Food, Health and Income ", by Sir John Boyd Orr (Macmillan). 



— i 7 — 

group, representing 20% of the population, is adequate only in total 
proteins and total fat. The third group, containing another 20% and 
living at a better income level, has a diet adequate in energy value and 
protein and fat ; but even the diet of this group is, on the average, 
below the standard in mineral and vitamin constituents. 

It thus appears that, in the United Kingdom, the diet of at least 50% of 
the population falls short of the desirable standard ; and it is estimated 
that to raise the consumption of this low-income half of the population 
merely to the level of the next group would require an increase of 16% in 
the amount of milk consumed, 15% in that of butter, 18% in eggs, 12% 
in meat, as well as a 25% increase of expenditure on fruit and vegetables. 
Even then the diet would leave room for considerable improvement. 

The analysis of family budgets carried out by the International 
Labour Office, the results of which are published in " Workers' 
Nutrition and Social Policy ", demonstrates the existence of 
similar conditions in other countries. 



2. The New Teachings of Science. 

During the last thirty years, scientific research in the field 
of nutrition has led to findings of great significance. In November 
1935, these findings were reviewed by a technical international 
Commission of physiologists convened by the Health 
Organisation of the League, which reached full agreement on 
certain principles and recommendations as to the composition 
of a rational diet. The conclusions arrived at, which are explained 
in greater detail in the chapter which follows, constitute a 
scientific formula for an optimum standard of human diet, which 
incorporates the results of modern research and is intended 
to provide an adequate supply of nutritive elements for all the 
physiological requirements of the human body. 

It is known, for example, that there are twelve inorganic 
mineral elements which play an important part in human 
nutrition, since their absence produces definite deficiency 
diseases. Then there are the vitamins, substances which exist 
in the human body in minute quantities, but have a highly 
important influence on health. There are at least nine of these 
vitamins, and the absence of any one gives rise to a specific 
disease characteristic of defective nutrition. 



— i8 — 

For these reasons, special emphasis is laid by modern 
teaching on the great importance of certain " protective " 
foods — that is, foods rich in the elements necessary to 
prevent the incidence of the specific maladies referred to. 
These protective foods consist mainly of products of dairy 
farming and of the market garden, and include meat, milk, 
eggs, cheese, vegetables, fruit and potatoes. Assuming that 
adequate provision is made in the composition of the diet for 
the supply of these protective foods, energy-bearing foods, such 
as cereals, vegetables, fats and sugar, are recommended for 
supplementary use so as to make up the calorie requirements 
of a complete diet. Of all the protective foods, milk is regarded 
as of outstanding importance, since it is a food containing most 
or all of the materials necessary for growth and for the 
maintenance of life, and provides these in a form ready for 
immediate utilisation by the human body. 1 

The ill-effects of improper feeding are of special gravity in 
the case of pregnant women and children. One reason for this 
is obvious — namely, that there is a greater need for good 
nutritional material during the period of growth than for the 
maintenance of a fully grown person. Even more important 
is the fact that tissues and organs of the body are often badly 
constructed if a proper supply of essential chemical substances, 
such as are present in protective foods but are deficient in energy- 
bearing foods, are not supplied during the period of rapid 
growth. Some of these defects are not only serious but 
irreparable, even when followed by a period of proper feeding. 
Individuals may, and often do, bear the stigma of defective 
feeding in childhood throughout life. 

As the new knowledge now available becomes widely 
diffused and its significance to individual health and national 
prosperity is realised, it is certain that progressive changes in 
the existing dietary practices of many countries will be brought 



1 " Milk contains the energy-giving nutrients, protein, fat and carbohydrate ; all the known essential 
vitamins ; calcium, phosphorus, iron, sulphur, iodine, magnesium, potassium, sodium, chlorine and copper, 
some of the physiological roles of which are known ; and a number of other elements, present only in minute 
amounts, such as manganese, zinc and fluorine, the exact functions of which are not fully understood, but 
which would seem to be as necessary for normal nutrition as any of the other constituents." — See 
" Memorandum by the Advisory Committee on Nutrition on the Nutritive Value of Milk ", 'issued by the 
Ministry of Health and the Secretary of State for Scotland, March 1936. 



— 19 — 

about through the gradual development of popular demand in 
the directions indicated by science as desirable. This may, 
indeed, lead to strengthening the demand for bread made 
from the less highly milled cereals and for the liberal use of 
potatoes, on account of their protective contents. On the other 
hand, less importance may be attached to the use of sugar, 
which contains no vitamins or mineral salts, while, indeed, its 
excessive consumption diminishes the appetite for more 
important protective foods. It must be realised that instinct 
and appetite alone cannot be regarded as reliable guides in the 
choice of food. 

Much work and time will be required before these scientific 
principles can be fully applied. The principles themselves 
are not worked out in terms of dietary practice, and 
in many cases alternative sources exist from which to secure 
particular necessary elements. Practical application, therefore, 
must vary widely, according to the conditions which exist 
in different countries and communities, and the different 
resources in food supplies possessed by the inhabitants of 
different regions. 

The objective must be, not to attempt to prescribe a single 
type of diet for all the peoples of Europe and other countries of 
Western civilisation, but to promote the development of 
agricultural production along the lines which science makes 
possible, having regard to differences of soil, climate, etc., with 
a view to providing the most efficient food supply, taking into 
consideration the traditional dietary habits of the people. 

There are, of course, very wide contrasts in the customary diets 
in different parts of the world, consideration of which will serve 
as a reminder of the extent of man's primary dependence upon local 
food supplies. The extent of this variety of practice is illustrated 
by information summarised in Volume III of this report. 

It is known, for instance, that Esquimaux can live on nothing but 
meat foods — on condition, however, that they consume all parts of the 
animal, the liver, the kidneys, the brain, the glands, the blood, etc., 
as is also the habit of beasts of prey. It is an established fact that 
the human body cannot subsist solely on the muscular parts which 
contribute most of the meat commonly consumed in temperate climates. 

In Arabia, another type of limited diet is found. Here 70% of the 
energy requirements are supplied by sour milk ; to this basic food, there 
is added from time to time a small quantity of barley, a few dates, or 



— 20 — 

the like. The Bedouins scarcely ever eat meat, yet are well able to 
subsist on their limited customary diet — indeed, their teeth are far better 
than those of Europeans, since the requisite protective elements are all 
provided. 

Again, the populations of the hot countries of Asia, which know no 
cereals other than rice, are able to subsist on their diet by adding certain 
foodstuffs such as cabbage or bamboo shoots, a few figs, eggs and pork, 
thereby making up for the deficiency of calcium, vitamin A and protein 
which characterises the cereals. Such a dietary is, however, far from 
ideal. In these countries, the physical resources of the women are 
severely taxed by childbirth ; the mothers' milk is of poor quality 
and infant mortality exceedingly high. Furthermore, such races have 
been observed to age rapidly and have a comparatively short average 
length of life. 

These instances are extreme examples of possible wide 
divergencies of diet. They illustrate, however, the wide limits 
of dietary which are compatible with existence. 



3. The Health of the Child — the Kernel of the Problem. 

Many of the most difficult problems affecting adult nutrition 
at the present time arise in large measure from the effects 
of the economic crisis in areas, whether industrial or agricultural, 
which are impoverished by reason of commercial dislocation 
and trade restrictions. Viewing the nutrition question as a 
whole, however, the greatest emphasis deserves to be laid 
on one particular aspect — namely, the nutrition of children. 
The national interest which attaches to securing an adequate 
diet for young children springs from the fact, now fully 
recognised, that only by adequate nutrition in the earliest 
years of life can the health and full development of the 
future citizen be assured. Pregnant women, nursing mothers, 
infants and young children must be considered from a 
nutritional standpoint as the most vulnerable portion of the 
population, in the sense that damage inflicted in childhood 
by bad food cannot be subsequently repaired. 

It is definitely established that many of the ill-effects which 
result from deficient diet in childhood, such as rickets, bad teeth 
and nutritional anaemia, are avoidable by adequate provision 
of ordinary foods, the most important of which is milk. There is 



— 21 — 

abundance of experimental evidence to show that milk is the 
most valuable food known for promoting health and growth 
in children and in preventing characteristic ailments due to 
nutritional defects. Observations on the development of children 
receiving additional milk show the definite improvement in 
health and in the rate of growth which is attained if the principles 
of rational nutrition are observed. An abundant supply of 
milk is therefore an essential item in the diet of children in order 
to secure a sound physique and good health. There is, 
unhappily, no less abundant evidence that very few countries, 
if any, have as yet attained the standard which secures to the 
child population as a whole this essential basis for sound 
nurture. 

In the light of these facts, attention should chiefly be 
concentrated on ensuring adequate nutrition for the young. 
Remedial treatment for the older age-groups, who must 
often be regarded as " damaged goods ", must also have its 
place in the planning of a nutritional campaign ; but it is the 
preventive rather than the curative aspect of the problem which 
should be given the first place. From a national standpoint, 
the cost of the investment so made in the health of the children 
will be more than compensated by the improved vigour and 
physique of the adult population. 



4. Education and Popular Instruction. 

Ignorance of the principles and main features of the modern 
science of nutrition is one of the commonest causes of deficiencies 
in nutrition. That is abundantly proved by the information at 
the Committee's disposal. Ignorance is prevalent, not only 
among the poorer classes of the population, where it aggravates 
the ill consequences of lack of resources ; investigations made 
in the wealthiest countries have revealed the fact that defective, 
inadequate or ill-considered nutrition exists, and that even 
among the wealthier classes there is ill-considered nutrition 
due to inadequate knowledge. 

In the Committee's opinion, effective teaching and propaganda 
are likely to produce important and rapid results. The changes 



— 22 — 

that have taken place in recent years in the dietary habits of 
a number of countries bear witness to this. 

The work of spreading knowledge may be conducted through 
many and widely different agencies and by widely different 
means (universities, elementary schools, secondary schools, 
schools of domestic science, demonstrations in various forms, 
publications, wireless, cinema, etc.). The means adopted in 
any country will have, therefore, to be carefully co-ordinated 
if satisfactory results are to be obtained. The central authority 
referred to in the introductory chapter of this report will have 
an important part to play in this respect. 

Exchanges of ideas and experience on an international scale 
could do much to improve the methods of the individual 
countries. The Mixed Committee considers that it would be 
desirable to organise meetings for this purpose, perhaps with 
the collaboration of appropriate international institutions 
which possess an organisation enabling the public at large to 
be reached. 

The methods followed will naturally vary according to 
the characteristics of the particular country. Nevertheless, 
experience shows that the progress of science can gradually 
be embodied in dietary habits and practices by the following 
means : 

(a) Doctors and Hygienists. 

Until quite recently, in most faculties of medicine, very 
little space was allotted to nutrition in the curriculum of the 
basic sciences and clinical medicine. In clinical medicine, the 
student learnt little more than the diagnosis and treatment 
of the most characteristic diseases of the digestive organs and 
the principal diseases of nutrition, such as diabetes and gout. 
Only for the nutrition of infants was an adequate place found 
in medical training. The teaching of preventive medicine, and 
hence also instruction in nutrition as a form of preventive 
medicine, is still in its initial stages. 

The time has now come to introduce rational nutrition into 
curricula and examinations. This should be possible without 
unduly taxing the resources of either. It is to-day recognised 
that physiology (with biophysics and biochemistry) is the 



— 23 — 

fundamental basis of medicine, and there is a tendency to give 
this subject ampler treatment. More attention should be devoted 
than in the past to questions relating to protective and energy- 
bearing foods, vitamins and the modern science of nutrition, and 
practical applications should be found for theoretical knowledge. 

Clinical instruction may include, not merely characteristic 
nutritional diseases, but also pre-morbid conditions and the 
general effects of malnutrition — in short, the nutritional aspect 
of preventive medicine. The student can be initiated into the 
technique of dietary surveys, family budgets, and the adjustment 
of family incomes to nutritional requirements. In nutrition, 
as in the other branches of curative and preventive medicine, 
medical practitioners must be sufficiently well trained to be 
effective agents of progress in the family and in the community 
at large. 

The fundamental education of students must be such that, 
with additional knowledge which they can acquire in advanced 
courses, they can become useful advisers as medical officers to 
schools (elementary, secondary, and higher), public institutions 
(hospitals, sanatoria, the army, prisons, etc.), industrial and 
commercial concerns, and private associations, and can help 
to give instruction in household management. 

A doctor wishing to specialise in nutritional hygiene should 
be able to obtain the advanced instruction he needs. This 
instruction should be partly scientific (in the form of laboratory 
research) and partly social (in the form of statistics and, 
especially, surveys of population groups). 

In the sphere of social hygiene, specialised visiting nurses 
exist in many countries as intermediary agents between the 
doctor and the general public. Their role can easily be extended 
to the sphere of nutrition. The instruction given in nursing- 
schools should make them capable of giving practical advice 
on the choice of food, the way in which it should be cooked, etc. 

(b) Education of the General Public. 

This should begin in the primary school, with elementary 
instruction in physiology in a very simple form. The child 
should be taught the nutritive value of the principal foodstuffs 



— 24 — 

(milk, bread, green vegetables, fruit) ; school meals will teach 
him dietary habits based on reasons of health. This instruction 
and these habits will quickly spread from the school to the 
family. 

Secondary schools, special schools (domestic economy, 
vocational schools, etc.) should take account in their curricula 
of this essential factor of social progress. 

There is no need to enumerate the methods of reaching the 
general public. They are of many kinds and are well known. 
The public can be given pamphlets, books, propaganda articles 
in the Press ; it can listen to lectures and wireless talks, and can 
be shown posters, pictures and films. The aim should be to 
make recent discoveries in the science of nutrition available to 
everyone in a simple form ; to spread such teaching among ever 
wider circles and gradually to convert the results of scientific 
researches from current opinions into daily habits. By these 
various means, the housewife will be taught how to choose food 
and how to prepare wholesome meals which are suited to the 
physical needs of her family and are at the same time economical. 

5. Economic Considerations. 

The Committee proposes to deal more fully with the economic 
and agricultural aspects of the problem of nutrition in its final 
report. It has thought it desirable, however, to insert two brief 
chapters on these subjects in this interim report (see Chapters 
IV and V below), though these are not intended to do more than 
indicate the nature of the economic and agricultural problems 
that arise for study. 

As has been stated above, the nutritional adequacy of the 
diets of various groups of population is mainly dependent upon 
the income of those groups. The purchasing power of every 
individual is a function at once of his money income and of 
the level of prices. A fall in retail prices might, therefore, be 
expected to improve nutrition. This would, indeed, be so if 
the reduction in retail prices was due to a reduction in the 
costs of distribution. But in recent years that fall has been 
due, to a very large extent, to the general economic depression 
and, in particular, to the depression in agriculture. It has been 



— 25 — 

accompanied by a still greater reduction in income of many 
classes of the population, and this, in turn, has led to serious 
malnutrition amongst certain classes. 

A question which has often attracted attention and which 
has become accentuated by the effects of the depression is 
the large margin or spread which is often found to exist betwen 
the wholesale and the retail prices of given commodities. 
Examples of abnormal margins are not hard to find in any 
country, whether due to permanent or to temporary conditions. 
Such contrasts have become more prominent in recent years 
in consequence of the fall in wholesale prices due to the crisis 
— at a time when charges for transportation, handling and 
marketing, rent of retail shops and other overhead costs have 
remained stationary or have changed but little. The glaring 
contrasts in value which are often brought to notice create 
a popular discontent shared by producer and consumer. 
The aim must be to secure the better organisation of the 
machinery of distribution so as to ensure that the consumer 
enjoys the benefit of the lowest possible price consistent with 
the adequate remuneration of producer and distributor. 

There remain a number of difficult questions as to the influence 
of economic policy in any country upon the level of food prices, 
especially where measures of a fiscal or protectionist character 
intended to restore and maintain agricultural prosperity are 
the accepted basis of national policy. Attention has been 
drawn to the very wide differences which exist between the cost 
of particular food materials and products in different countries, 
a fact which seems to suggest that consumption in certain 
communities is restricted, since they are deprived as a result 
of such policies of the benefits of abundant and cheap 
supply. 

This particular aspect of the nutrition problem is an important 
one, and its proper understanding is essential in a study of 
the influences which impede nutritional progress. Clearly, 
every effort must be made to harmonise the policy of promoting 
production with the policy of safeguarding nutritional interests, 
for policies which limit the abundance of food supplies at low 
prices must in the long run react unfavourably upon producers. 
It should be very seriously considered whether some of the 



— 26 — 

resources at present devoted to the encouragement of production 
might not beneficially be directed towards stimulating increased 
consumption. 

6. Agriculture. 

A widespread improvement in the nutrition of the general 
population cannot but affect the demand for food materials 
and, therefore, agricultural activity, national and international. 
This is a region in which much careful investigation is required 
before sound conclusions can be reached. Scientific progress 
and improvement in agriculture make it possible to bring 
about rapid and important developments, and new methods 
and new processes are available to facilitate the adaptation 
of agricultural technique. Changes in demand or augmented 
demand for particular products will have important reactions 
on national agriculture, particularly since the forms of food to 
which attention is specially directed consist of products which 
by their nature are especially suitable for local production. 
Fresh milk, fresh vegetables and fresh fruit are clearly best 
produced in the neighbourhood of the market where they will 
be consumed. It is no less significant that the characteristic 
structure of agriculture in densely populated countries is as 
a rule particularly well suited for the development of production 
of this character. Should this movement spread, therefore, 
and lead to a substantial change in agricultural structure, it 
may help to bring about, in some measure, the restoration of 
international trade in foodstuffs which can be more 
advantageously and economically secured by importation. This 
aspect of the nutrition problem has thus many encouraging 
features. 

7. National Nutrition Policy and Social Welfare. 

The economic interests of the community as a whole are 
bound up in maintaining the standard of physical efficiency 
among the people and laying the foundations of the health 
and well-being of future generations. Moreover, there is a 
definite social and political interest in the accomplishment 
of this task, owing to the well-ascertained relationship between 



— 27 — 

the deficiency of food and especially of protective foods and 
social unrest. 

The relief of destitution, sanitation and education have 
long been recognised as social obligations. Remedies for 
unemployment, whether by insurance, by direct maintenance 
or by the provision of work, have in more recent times become 
one of the leading preoccupations of Governments. At the same 
time, there has been a great extension of the public medical 
services, together with action to promote industrial welfare, 
better housing and the care of maternity and childhood. 
Progressively, stress is laid on preventive as contrasted with 
curative treatment for social maladies. 

This vast network of national endeavour has for its underlying 
aim the promotion of individual well-being. More and more 
clearly it is seen that rational nutrition is a primary requirement. 
A new emphasis has thus been given to the nutrition aspect 
of the social problem, and the recent advances made by the 
science of nutrition have given a new specific direction to the 
campaign for social betterment. 

It is now beginning to be realised that, in order to secure a 
proper co-ordination and direction of the public activities 
involved, it is necessary that the campaign for better nutrition 
should take its place as an integral part of national policy. 

A national nutrition policy requires the supervision of some 
central authority having special responsibility for this matter, 
in order to utilise to the best advantage the teachings of science 
and to apply them in the practical field. There must be co-opera- 
tion between bodies engaged in research on the one hand and 
authorities and organisations responsible for the administration 
of public assistance and for education and popular instruction 
on the other. There must equally be co-ordination of action 
in the economic field, so that measures affecting the supply 
of food may be brought into harmony with nutritional 
requirements. On this side of its work, the authority should 
be entitled to be consulted in matters affecting agricultural 
policies and the importation of foodstuffs. An effective means, 
for example, of bringing nutrition and national economic policy 
into harmony would be to empower the authorities responsible 
for the conduct of nutrition policy to help in an advisory capacity 



— 28 — 

whenever a Government is about to take important economic 
decisions affecting nutrition. 

The campaign for improved nutrition launched at last year's 
Assembly would have an excellent prospect of achieving its 
object if Governments, when called upon to take important 
decisions affecting production and trade — both national and 
international — should henceforward concern themselves as 
much with maintaining the nutritional basis of public health 
as with safeguarding the legitimate interest of producers. 

At its first session, in February 1936, the Mixed Committee, 
being convinced of the great importance of central responsibility 
and direction, adopted and gave publicity to the following 
recommendation : 

" In view of the importance of carrying on the studies and researches which 
can best safeguard human health by means of a better nutritional hygiene, the 
Mixed Committee hopes that, in as many countries as possible, suitable means 
will be found for centralising the documentation, information and measures for 
the improvement of nutrition in order to gain a better knowledge of the influence 
which has been and may be exercised in the different countries by the scientific 
results already achieved. With this end in view, wherever organisations adapted 
for this task do not yet exist, it is hoped that national committees or other suitable 
bodies will be set up under the authority of the Government, or in relation with 
the latter, and in liaison with the scientific institutions, in order to investigate on 
a national plane : 

" (i) What centres for the study of and scientific research into human 
nutrition are already in existence. 

" (ii) What action is proposed and what steps appear to be desirable for the 
development of these studies or researches. 

" (iii) What application has been made of the scientific findings already 
established, in particular : 

" (a) By instruction in the form of lectures, travelling exhibitions, radio, 
etc. ; 

" (b) By instruction in domestic economy ; 

" (c) By the education of doctors, teachers or stewards, military supply 
service officers, hotel-keepers, etc. ; 

" (d) By the supervision of diets in educational establishments, barracks, 
public relief institutions, in which a rational diet may be introduced by a decision 
of the public authorities ; 

" (e) By the distribution of certain foods to children ; 

" (f ) By any other action taken up by the State or by occupational or other 
groups. 



29 — 



" (iv) What should be done in future to improve the nutrition of the country. 

" (v) The probable consequences, and particularly the new requirements 
from the point of view of the food supplies of their country (reduction or increase 
in the consumption of certain products), of the application of a normal dietary 
drawn up in accordance with the Technical Commission's conclusions. " 1 

The Mixed Committee has not attempted to give definite 
advice as to the lines which this policy should follow in 
the various countries. That must necessarily depend on 
circumstances, administrative methods and national traditions. 

Once it has been recognised that one of the collective duties 
of the State is to exercise general supervision over the nutrition 



1 In some countries, there is already a central authority or body responsible, in some degree, for advising 
upon or directing the different activities in the sphere of national nutrition. As examples and without 
attempting to give a complete list, the following organisations may be mentioned : 



United Kingdom : 

Bulgaria : 

Denmark : 

United States 
of America: 



Italy: 
Mexico : 
Poland : 
Sweden : 

Since the Mixed 
to set up national 

Australia: 



Canada : 
Finland : 
France : 



India : 
Netherlands : 



Uruguay : 
Yugoslavia: 



Advisory Committee on Nutrition. 
Rational Nutrition Commission. 
Advisory Nutrition Committee. 

Department of Agriculture : Bureau of Home Economics. 

Department of Labour : Bureau of Labour Statistics and Children's Bureau. 

Department of the Treasury : Public Health Service. 

National Research Council. 

Nutrition Research Institute. 

Polish Health Association. 

Social Board. 

Committee was constituted, it has been learned that several other countries have decided 
nutrition committees or councils. 

The Commonwealth Government has established an Advisory Committee to examine 
the existing diet of the various sections of the population, collect data, and report 
upon any defects in Australian conditions and possible remedies. 

The Government of Canada has set up an Interdepartmental Committee to consider 
questions arising out of the League enquiry on nutrition. 

The Government has appointed a Committee of Enquiry in the matter of improving 
the popular diet and increasing the consumption of home agricultural produce. 

The French Government has set up a National Committee for the Study of Nutrition, 

consisting of four commissions — a scientific commission, a commission on education 

and practical application, an economic commission, a commission on the inspection 

and control of foodstuffs. 
The Government is contemplating the establishment of a Nutritional Advisory Board. 
Consideration is being given to the advisability of establishing a mixed official committee 

representing various public services which will deal with the related questions of 

nutrition, agriculture and public health. 
A National Committee for Rational Nutrition has been created. 
The Ministry of Social Policy and Public Health has established a National Committee 

to study the nutrition problem. This Committee consists of representatives of the 

authorities concerned and of private organisations. 



— 30 — 

of the people as a whole, and especially to guarantee to those 
groups in which the damage inflicted by malnutrition has the 
most serious consequences the minimum of nutrition required, 
an appropriate organisation is obviously needed to carry out 
those tasks in close co-operation with the Government of the 
country. 

The duties of those bodies which the Mixed Committee 
advocates are essentially national. It is obvious, however, that 
their existence in a large number of countries could be extremely 
useful as a basis for international collaboration. 



Chapter II. 

NUTRITION AND HEALTH. 



i. Introduction. 

The progress made in medical science and hygiene in the 
second half of the nineteenth century led Governments to 
the realisation that great possibilities of improvement in national 
health were within the reach of mankind. The knowledge 
of the infective nature of many maladies indicated ways of 
stamping out epidemic disease. Means were discovered 
of making the human environment more healthy and of fortifying 
the body by physical training, which became increasingly 
popular. It was confidently hoped that the ancient ideal 
of mens sana in corpore sano would become the heritage of all 
human beings if the work thus begun was pursued further 
with devotion and enthusiasm. 

But this very work has revealed the extent of the ills which 
it has to cure. In spite of the application of the knowledge 
of medicine and hygiene, the physical condition of a large 
part of the human race is still far below the accepted 
standard, and the more recent advances in medical science have 
established the fact that this inferiority is largely due to imper- 
fect nutrition. 

In the great war, nations which were obliged to enroll large 
numbers of very young soldiers were appalled at the poor quality 
of the recruits that were presented for service. Medical inspection 
of schools revealed then and still reveals a large number of 
sickly children below the normal standard of development for 
their age. The considerable decline in infant mortality in some 
countries only renders more impressive the persistence of high 
infant mortality in others. Certain epidemics display a 
destructive power that seems due, not solely to the virulence of 
the infective agent, but also to a lack of resistance in the 
population attacked. 



— 32 — 

At the same time, the discoveries of the last thirty years 
leading to the " newer knowledge of nutrition ' show with 
ever-increasing certainty that inadequate nutrition plays an 
important part in infant mortality and can account for the 
excessive proportion of under-developed school-children and 
adolescents and the poor health and small output of a large 
number of workers. Deficiencies in diet and diseases of nutritional 
origin can be observed, not only among urban populations, 
but also among dwellers in country districts, and not only 
in poor or primitive countries, but also in the rich nations with 
an old and highly developed civilisation. 

Interest having thus been awakened as to the importance 
of correct nutrition for the public health, investigation of 
the existing conditions has spread to every quarter of the 
globe, the results of which have created the suspicion that a 
large part, possibly the greater part, of humanity may be 
ill-fed or underfed. 

2. The Principles of Correct Nutrition. 

The diet must supply the necessary substances for the growth 
and repair of the organism and energy for the production of 
animal heat and muscular work. The organism being in 
some respects comparable to a heat-machine which converts 
fuel into calories, its energy requirements may be estimated 
in calories. The fuel or energy needs of the body are supplied by 
the fats, carbohydrates and proteins of the diet, the proteins 
having the additional function of building new tissue for the 
growing animal and of repairing tissue wastage in the adult. For 
these purposes, the proteins contained in animal foods are of 
better quality than those contained in foods of plant origin, the 
proteins of milk, eggs and glandular animal tissues (liver, 
kidney) being specially valuable. The diet should contain a 
certain proportion of foods providing " good " protein, and it is 
usually held that about 50% of the protein in a diet should be of 
animal origin. 

Recent nutritional research has stressed the great importance 
of other essential food elements, vitamins and minerals, which are 
also indispensable, though required in relatively small quantities. 



— 33 — 

Vitamins. 

The vitamins, of which about ten have been differentiated, 
have been called food hormones, * the conception being that, 
in the economy of the body, they direct the correct utilisation 
of the other dietary elements. A long list of diseases, including 
rickets, osteomalacia, 2 beri-beri, pellagra, dental caries, 
scurvy, ophthalmia, are now known to be of nutritional 
origin and to be caused partly or wholly by deficiency of one 
or more of the vitamins. The vitamins have been extensively 
studied in the last twenty years, some have been isolated in 
the pure state, while, of the nature and function of others, 
knowledge is still very imperfect. The principal vitamins, all 
of which are necessary to promote growth and maintain health, 
have been classified as follows : 

Vitamin A (fat-soluble). — Deficiency of vitamin A is 
manifested by certain skin diseases and eye affections, 
including night blindness, and corneal ulcer leading to total 
blindness. Populations deprived of vitamin A have a high 
death rate due to infections of the lungs and intestines. 

Vitamin B Complex (water-soluble). — The different 
constituents of this group are concerned with prevention 
and cure of beri-beri, pellagra and possibly also of sprue and 
some forms of anaemia. 

Vitamin C (water-soluble). — Necessary for prevention 
of scurvy. 

Vitamin D (fat-soluble). — Required for correct utilisation 
of calcium salts and phosphates in the nutrition of the 
growing and adult skeleton, for prevention of rickets, osteo- 
malacia and dental disease. Vitamin D can be taken in the 
food (in egg-yolk or fish or liver oils) and is also synthesised in 
the skin by the action of certain of the sun's rays which, in 
temperate regions, are present only in summer, but are 
abundant and powerful in their action in tropical and 
Southern-European countries. 



1 From a Greek word meaning " messenger ". Hormones are thus chemical messengers. 

2 Osteomalacia is a disease in which the bones of adults become largely composed of osteoid tissue 
which contains very little calcium and is therefore soft. Great deformity of these bones may result. 



— 34 — 

The nutritional diseases mentioned above are, except in 
the case of rickets, the outcome of long-continued severe 
deprivation of the vitamins in question. It is perhaps even 
more important to emphasise, however, that a less severe 
deprivation in time or extent or a partially inadequate intake 
of these essentials may involve ill-defined and disabling 
departures from health of which the causes may remain 
undiagnosed. 

Minerals. 

Recent researches have revealed the great importance of an 
adequate amount, and a correct balance, of essential minerals 
in the diet. Of these, calcium, phosphorus, iron and iodine 
have a special interest. Since a large proportion of the human 
body is composed of calcium phosphate, forming the skeleton 
and teeth, the need for ample supplies of calcium and phosphorus 
is self-evident. A smaller but necessary supply of iron is required 
for nutrition of blood elements and prevention of anaemia, and 
a minute provision of iodine is also necessary for the prevention 
of simple goitre or increase in size of the thyroid gland. 

3. " Energy-bearing " and " Protective " Foods. 

A useful division of foods into two classes has been made 
— (1) the protective foods, those chiefly valuable for providing 
minerals, vitamins and " good " protein, and (2) the non- 
protective foods, chiefly valuable as energy-providers. Lack of 
calories causes starvation, lack of protective foods causes various 
" deficiency " diseases which may develop in spite of an abundant 
calorie intake. 

The table given opposite contains a rough classification of some 
of the commoner types of foods into these two classes and shows 
their relative value as vehicles of energy, good protein, minerals 
and the more important vitamins. 

Among the most important protective foods are the dairy 
products, especially milk. Then the glandular animal tissues 
{e.g., liver) and eggs; "fat" fish, green vegetables and fresh 
fruit are also very rich in vitamins and minerals. Finally, 
there are certain fats (butter and cod-liver oil) of special value 



— 35 



Nutritive Value of Foods. 



Food 


" Good " 
protein 


Minerals 


Vitamins 
A B C D 


Milk 

E Eggs 

E Liver 


+ + 
+ + 

+ + 
+ + 


+ + + 
+ + 
+ + 

+ + 


+ + + + \ 
+ + — — 

+ ++ — ++ 

+ ++ — + j 


E Fat fish (herrings, 
etc.) 


+ 




+ + — ++ 1 


Green vegetables, 
salads 

Raw fruit, fruit 
juices 


+ 


+ + + 
+ + + 


+ + ++ — [ 
+ * + + + — \ 


Cod-liver oil ... . 


— ■ 


— 


+ - — +0 
+ + + — — + + + 


Yeast 

Meat (muscle) . . . 
Root vegetables, tubers 


_l_ 
i 


+ 

JL 


- ++ - ~ / 

+ JL - \ 

+ * -1- + 


Legumes (dry peas, 

lentils) 

E Cereals, bread (whole- 

E Cereals, bread (white) 
E Cereals, rice (polished) 
E Nuts 


i 
1 


_L 


JL + — — 


E Sugar, jam, honey. . 

E Margarine, olive oil 
and other vegetable 
oils 






:::: 



Highly 

protective 

foods 



Less 
protective 
and non- 
protective 
foods 



E = foods of high energy or caloric value. 
4- + + signifies very rich. 
+ + signifies rich. 
+ signifies present. 
_L signifies present in small amount or traces. 
— signifies absent. 

signifies in summer, when the cows are on pasture. 
* signifies if yellow in colour. 



-36 - 

for providing vitamins A and D. Vitamin D, which is sparsely 
distributed in ordinary foodstuffs, is a vital necessity for young 
children living in temperate climates or in industrial regions 
where sunlight is scarce, especially in winter. 

Among the prominent energy-giving foods are the fats, the 
cereals and sugar. The ordinary mixed diet should form a 
collection of protective and non-protective foods supplying the 
requisite energy for the body's activity and containing all the 
necessary protective elements in a correct balance. An unlimited 
number of different diets could be composed, all of which would 
satisfy this nutritional ideal. According to the variation in the 
food supply in different climates and under different 
cirumstances, so the problems of correct nutrition will in practice 
be met by a large variety of different food combinations. The 
principles of correct nutrition, however, remain the same. 

4. Special Dietary Needs of Different Classes and 

Age-groups. 

Study of the incidence of nutritional disease has demonstrated 
the general principle that, where a specific dietary deficiency 
exists, evidence of its effects will be first apparent in those 
individuals who are subjected to special physical strain. 

If the protective elements are adequate in a diet, the needs 
for support of extra manual work can easily be met by additional 
non-protective foods, such as fats and carbohydrates, from which 
the additional energy can be obtained. Where the supply of 
protective elements is inadequate, physical strain will often 
make the defect manifest. Thus, in the history of arctic 
exploration, where the diet lacked the antiscorbutic elements, 
men performing hard manual work have frequently been the 
first to sicken of scurvy. In the East and West Indies, where 
the diet consists too exclusively of polished rice and is lacking in 
B vitamins, beri-beri frequently attacks expectant and nursing 
mothers as well as gangs of coolies performing heavy work. 
Where the diet is deficient in calcium salts and phosphates 
(as, for example, in Northern China and North- West India), 
it is chiefly the child-bearing women who suffer from 
osteomalacia, although the men are also affected if the 



— 37 — 

deficiency is very severe. Special need for protective food arises 
in cases of expectant and nursing mothers, who have to perform 
extra nutritive functions in addition to nourishing their own 
bodies. Growing children also require an abundance to provide 
nourishment for their growing tissues and the younger the child 
the greater the need for the protective foods. In these cases, 
there is special need for an adequate mineral and vitamin 
supply and for " good " protein. The results of deficiency may 
remain latent for some length of time in a manner analogous to 
the incubation period of an infective disease of low virulence, 
such as tuberculosis. Malnutrition, especially in children, 
affects, not only the physical health, but the mental development. 
It is a great evil at all ages, but there are specially sensitive 
periods when the organism is growing ; such are found in uterine 
life, in early childhood and in adolescence, when the ill-effects 
of faulty nutrition are much more serious and may even be 
irreparable. 

(a) Expectant and Nursing Mothers. 

There is good reason to believe that a large amount of sickness 
and disability associated with child-bearing, and the high 
mortality rates of pregnant women, could be substantially 
reduced by improved feeding of these women. During pregnancy 
and lactation, the mother has not only to be supplied with all 
the nutritional factors necessary for her own health, but has also 
to sustain the extra burden of having to provide many essential 
chemical substances for the development of the growing 
embryo and foetus. It is undoubted that many modern diets 
are deficient in certain chemical substances and bring about 
much ill-health to the mother as well as defective development 
and diminished resistance of the foetus and infant. One of the 
commonest defects in modern civilised diets is a faulty mineral 
supply leading to disordered calcium metabolism, so that the 
mother has to sacrifice the calcium salts of her own bones for 
the developing offspring. This deficiency may be so great as 
to result in osteomalacia, but, whereas this is rare in European 
countries, smaller defects in calcium metabolism are undoubtedly 
common. This is evident in the increased tendency to dental 
caries in women at these times. Other distressing complaints 



-38 - 

during pregnancy, which are apparently related to the defective 
calcium nutrition, include muscle soreness and weakness, and 
the consequent inability to perform ordinary daily activities, 
which is generally not relieved by rest during the day or on 
retiring at night ; also, the inability to sit or lie long in 
one position, a condition often associated with intervals of more 
definite muscle spasm and contractions which may be quite 
severe. In an investigation made in America on 576 cases of 
pregnancy, 1 316 complained of symptoms of this nature. In 
almost all these cases, relief followed the administration of 
additional calcium and vitamin D. It must be remembered that, 
between the twenty-eighth week of pregnancy and full term, 
the maternal organism has to supply to the foetus as much as 
25 grammes of calcium and 15 grammes of phosphorus, amounts 
which ought to be provided by a sufficient intake of milk and 
other protective foods in her diet. Similarly, a nursing mother 
also provides as much as 0.4 gramme of calcium daily to her 
infant, which, over a period of months, causes a large drain on 
her own supplies unless she is receiving an abundant amount in her 
food. In a Norwegian investigation, eleven women out of sixteen 
were found in a condition of negative calcium balance towards 
the end of pregnancy — that is to say, these women were losing 
more calcium from their body than was provided in their food, 
and this negative balance could only be made positive by 
increasing the daily calcium intake to 1.6 gramme by providing 
them with about two pints of milk a day. Other sources of 
vitamin D, such as cod-liver oil or egg-yolk, also had a powerful 
effect in improving this condition. 

Another substance which is likely to be deficient in the diet 
of pregnant women is iron, of which the maternal organism 
has to supply a relatively large quantity to the foetus. A large 
proportion of women of child-bearing age suffer from simple 
anaemia, and this condition is exaggerated by pregnancy and 
lactation. Thus, in an investigation made at a hospital in London, 
rather more than 50% of nursing mothers had a haemoglobin 
content of the blood of less than 80%. This common deficiency 
can be repaired either by giving iron salts in pregnancy or, 



1 Am. J. Obstet. & Gynecol. 



— 39 — 

better still, by giving foodstuffs rich in iron, such as meat, 
egg-yolk and vegetables. 

It is well known, also, that a deficiency of iodine in the diet 
of pregnant women may be of great significance. It is true that 
only small quantities of iodine are necessary to supply the 
demands of the offspring at this time, but this minimum is 
essential to prevent cretinism and goitre, and ordinary foodstuffs 
are so deficient in iodine that it is sometimes impossible to ensure 
even this small amount. In some countries in Central Europe, 
this difficulty is overcome by giving iodised salt in food — that 
is to say, sodium chloride containing i part of sodium iodide in 
200,000 parts of sodium chloride. As regards natural foodstuffs, 
sea fish is the only rich source of iodine and, where procurable, 
this ought to be included in the diet of all pregnant women once 
or twice a week. Otherwise, it is essential to add iodised salt 
to the food. 

There is evidence that vitamins are commonly deficient in 
the diet of pregnant women. The commonest deficiency is 
probably that of vitamin D ; vitamins A and C are also ingested 
in deficient amount in many instances. These dietetic defects, 
except in the case of vitamin D, can be readily overcome by 
including such protective foods as milk, eggs, green and other 
vegetables and fruit in the diet. Where there is lack of sunshine, 
vitamin D can be provided in abundance in the form of cod- 
liver oil or of some preparation of the vitamin itself. 

Although it is true that our knowledge of feeding in pregnancy 
and lactation is elementary, it can be said with some 
assurance that, in regard to the health of both mother and 
offspring, an increase in the protective foodstuffs would have 
a large effect in eliminating many of the ills of pregnancy. 

(b) Infants. 

The importance of breast-feeding. — Complete breast-feeding 
of infants is of very great importance. It is cheaper, simpler 
and cleaner than artificial feeding and, in the case of a properly 
fed mother, the benefits brought to the infant are great. 
Impressive evidence on this point was supplied by a large- 
scale enquiry reported from the Infant Welfare Centre of Chicago, 



— 40 — 

in which 20,061 infants attending the centre between the years 
1924-1929 were closely followed up for the first nine months 
of each infant life. Of these, 48.5% were wholly breast-fed, 
43% partially breast-fed, and 8.5% wholly artificially fed. The 
artificial feeding was carried out on a definite plan, and all the 
infants — artificially fed and otherwise — were attended at 
intervals by the officials of the centre. The mortality rates of 
these different groups of infants were as follows : 

Number of infants Total deaths Percentage of 

deaths of infants 

Wholly breast-fed . . . 9,749 *5 0.1$ 

Partially 8,605 59 °-7 

Artificially fed 1 >7°7 x 44 8.4 

It will be seen that the mortality rate among the artificially 
fed infants is fifty-six times greater than that among those 
completely breast-fed. The difference in the death-rate 
between these classes of infants was largely due to deaths 
following respiratory infections and, to a less degree, gastro- 
intestinal and other infections. Thus, whereas only four out 
of 9,749 of the breast-fed infants died of respiratory infections, 
eighty-two out of the 1,707 artificially fed infants died from this 
cause. 

No clearer evidence could be obtained to enforce the 
advantages of breast-feeding as compared with artificial 
feeding. Similar impressive evidence on the value of breast- 
feeding was afforded by the enquiry of the League of Nations 
into the causes of infant mortality in six European countries 
and four South-American countries, which also demonstrated 
the part played by bad feeding in infant mortality. Where this 
mortality was low, the digestive troubles usually caused by 
defective feeding were rare ; where it was high, digestive troubles 
were very prevalent — they were the outstanding cause of death, 
and it is by reducing them that mortality can be reduced. 
Conversely, where breast-feeding was general, the " nutritional 
peril " was usually small ; where artificial feeding predominated, 
it was great. But, although the superiority of breast-feeding 
over artificial feeding with cow's milk has been demonstrated, 



— 41 — 

breast-fed infants may yet be improperly nourished if, in 
addition to their mother's milk, they are given other untimely 
or unwholesome food, or do not receive the necessary vitamins 
in the form of supplementary foods. 

The increased frequency of respiratory, gastro-intestinal and 
other infections in artificially fed infants and the resulting greater 
mortality can be ascribed to two causes. One is the " food peril " 
itself, which may be due to the infected milk of an artificial diet 
or to the irritating and indigestible nature of other constituents, 
and the other is the diminished degree of resistance to infection 
produced in infants fed on artificial diets as compared with 
those receiving mothers' milk. 

Common nutritional defects of infants. — The necessity for 
proper feeding of the nursing mother in order to allow the 
maintenance of her own health, to ensure the presence in her 
milk of a good supply of all the essentials for the infant's health 
and development, and even for the continuation of an abundant 
milk secretion, has been mentioned above. In breast-feeding 
under good conditions, the need for giving supplementary 
dietetic substances to the infant is diminished. In most cases, 
however, it is advisable to include cod-liver oil to supply 
additional vitamins A and D and iodine, and some form of 
vitamin C, such as orange juice. 

Infants at birth have an abundant supply of iron stored in 
their livers and, in the period of milk-feeding, these stores are 
gradually used up so that the haemoglobin in the blood is reduced 
from 100% at birth to about 70% at the age of three months. 
This can be regarded as a physiological type of anaemia, as it 
occurs in practically all infants, both breast and artificially 
fed, although the fall is more severe and the recovery during 
subsequent months less in artificially fed than in breast-fed 
infants. The administration of iron to these infants will raise 
the haemoglobin level to 77% and upwards in the period from 
5 to 12 months of age. In untreated infants, the haemoglobin 
will generally drop from 70% at 5 or 6 months of age to 65% 
at 12 months of age. It has also been shown that the 
infants with low haemoglobin in their blood have a much higher 
sickness rate due to infections than those receiving iron. The 
need for including iron-containing foods, such as egg-yolk or 



— 42 — 

some form of iron itself, into the diet of infants over 6 months 
seems evident. 

Even in the case of breast-fed infants, it may be desirable to 
give dietary supplements, but the need varies according to the 
climate. Thus, infants born in the tropics and exposed to much 
sunshine may need no extra vitamin D. Where infants are not 
so exposed it is of great importance that the diet should have 
a high calcifying value from birth onwards to ensure perfect 
calcification of the developing teeth and the proper growth of 
the jaws, preventing subsequent irregularities of the teeth. 
Such a diet will also prevent rickets and osteoporosis * and ensure 
the formation and growth of good bones. 

In the case of the artificially fed infant, the inclusion of 
vitamin D and other specific protective substances is of much 
greater importance. Such infants ought always to be given 
cod-liver oil, orange juice, or some other product rich in vitamin 
C, also egg-yolk, because the common illnesses of infants, such 
as rickets, defective formation of teeth and anaemia, are much 
more frequently found in artificially fed than in breast-fed 
children, while gastric and respiratory infections in the former 
are much more likely to be severe and even fatal. 

There is a common practice nowadays of including cereal 
and cereal products in the diet of young infants. The 
immediate effect of giving such foodstuffs is often apparently 
beneficial, as indicated by the increase in weight. The modern 
teaching of nutrition, however, is against giving cereals before 
8 months or so, and even then only small amounts should be 
given. Many cereal products are very poor in vitamins and 
available mineral elements and their inclusion in the diet 
limits the intake of milk and other protective foods. There 
is also evidence that they actually are harmful in the sense 
that they increase the demand for vitamins A and D and 
calcium and that their own calcium and phosphorus content are 
not available for the formation of bone in the growing organism 
under some circumstances. Thus a rapidly growing infant 
nourished with cereals is more liable to suffer from defects of 
calcification of the bones and teeth than one on a diet of milk 



1 Osteoporosis is a condition of the bones in which the substance which gives them hardness — i.e., calcium 
phosphate — diminishes. Such bones easily fracture. 






— 43 — 

and other protective foods only. It is probable also that the 
consumption of cereals by these young infants diminishes 
their resistance to broncho-pneumonia, intestinal and other 
infections. 

The enquiry made by the League of Nations into the causes 
of infant mortality referred to above made it clear that the 
pernicious combination of poverty and ignorance was largely 
responsible for the malnutrition of infancy, as, indeed, for that 
seen in other stages of human life. 



(c) Early Childhood, Preschool Age, Nursery-school Age. 

As a rule, maternal and infant welfare institutions do not yet 
follow the child beyond the end of its second year, and there is 
consequently a gap in the health supervision between infancy 
and school age. Yet that is the time when malformations of the 
bones, dental defects and abnormalities of the pharynx appear. 
They will be discovered by the school medical officer, but it will 
then be too late to prevent and, in some cases, to remedy them. 
It is desirable to prevent these causes of chronic ill-health as 
far as possible by procuring improved feeding of children in 
these early years, both by extending the application of social 
services and infant welfare institutions forwards, or of the 
school medical services backwards to this age, and by increasing 
the knowledge and means of poor parents for better feeding of 
their offspring. 

By the time children enter school, at the age of 5, large 
numbers show some form of physical defect and, although 
there is no proof that all of these defects could have been 
avoided by improved feeding, there is good evidence that many 
would not have developed under such conditions. In a recent 
enquiry (1931) in London schools, it was revealed that, among 
children of 5 years of age, there were from 67% to 88% of cases of 
abnormalities of the bones, 67% to 82% (according to the 
gravity of the symptoms) of cases of adenoids, enlarged and 
septic tonsils, and other disorders of the pharynx, 88% to 93% 
having badly formed or decayed teeth. There is evidence that the 
defective bone formation and much of the dental decay among 



— 44 — 

these children would have been avoided by the inclusion in 
their diet of large quantities of the protective foods, such as 
dairy products, and therefore less reliance upon bread and other 
cereals. How serious and widespread may be the defects in the 
feeding of children at this age can be seen in the following 
example : in 192 1, in a city in the United States, out of 6,015 
children of pre-school age, 90% were found to be receiving an 
inadequate diet according to current standards, 57% never 
received any fresh milk, 16% no milk of any kind, 59.5% no eggs, 
60% practically no fruit, 50% no vegetable other than potatoes. 
As an aggravating circumstance, these dietary deficiencies were 
accompanied by a lack of proper rest or sleep. Is it any wonder 
that so many of the children beginning school life show physical 
defects and mental inactivity ? 

It is just at this age that there is great need to maintain the 
resistance of children at the highest possible level against the 
ravages of the infectious diseases to which they will be exposed, 
such as measles and scarlet fever, and especially their sequelae, 
broncho-pneumonia, middle-ear disease and nephritis. These 
diseases, if they do not kill, often leave the child with some 
chronic disorder which disables it for life. It is, for instance, at 
this age that deafness often has its starting-point owing to 
infection of the ear following measles and scarlet fever. Below 
the age of 3 years, measles is a particularly deadly disease, and 
there is suggestive but not conclusive evidence that the high 
mortality rate at this and older ages could be reduced by better 
nutrition of such children. 



(d) School Age. 

In the early years of school life, many of the children are 
already " damaged goods ". They frequently show evidence of 
previous defective feeding and lack of care in deformity of the 
bones of the limbs, chest and head, in bad dental structure often 
associated with decay, in deafness to a greater or less degree, 
in running ears, septic tonsils and adenoids, and in simple 
goitres. These indications of disease are not generally, however, 
from the present medical point of view, regarded as evidence of 



— 45 — 

malnutrition and, indeed, there is no definite proof that some 
of them — e.g., running ears, enlarged and septic tonsils — would 
have been prevented by proper feeding from early life, although 
this is probable. 

Malnutrition is usually diagnosed in school-children on the 
basis of subnormal growth and weight and general sickly 
appearance of the child. Nothing is more important than that 
a new attitude should be adopted towards this problem, for 
whereas such results of improper feeding as subnormal 
growth and weight and undefined general ill-health can 
usually be rapidly improved by better feeding conditions, 
the more chronic conditions due to earlier defective dieting 
cannot be so easily remedied, but continue to act as a handicap 
throughout life. The system of medical inspection of children 
that is now generally established under State control in different 
countries must be sadly handicapped so long as it has to deal 
with many children who come under its control from the 
beginning in a pathological state. Prevention rather than 
treatment of disease must be more and more emphatically 
stressed and, so far as this can be procured by better feeding, 
this ought to be done. 

Even, however, on the present basis of diagnosis, there is 
abundant evidence of malnutrition in school-children. From 
20 to 30% of school-children were found to be under-nourished 
in the poor quarters of Paris ; in some cases, the only 
meal the children had during the day was that provided by the 
school canteen. Such cases are reported as frequent in 
Yugoslavia. In Poland, according to a recent estimate, 25% 
of school-children are ill-nourished in certain regions, 7% are 
threatened with tuberculosis, while additional meals should be 
given to at least 50% (according to documents received by the 
Mixed Committee). In the United States, 7% million school- 
children were under-nourished in 1933, according to a statement 
by the Secretary of Agriculture. 

In 1917, according to specialists in rickets, nearly all the 
children of the negro population of New York were suffering 
from this disease ; 83% in Connecticut in 1923 ; 434% in 
the villages in the north of Norway in 1931 ; 33 to 67% in 
two northern counties of Sweden. Rickets is still an important 



- 46 - 

social disease in England, although the discovery of its aetiology 
and means of prevention is gradually causing its reduction. 
As regards dental caries, the enquiries carried out in various 
European countries have shown it to be present in from 50 to 
95% °f the children examined. In a recent enquiry undertaken 
in Norway, only 160 out of 25,000 school-children examined 
possessed perfect sets of teeth. According to the English report 
mentioned above, out of 3,303,983 children examined in 1933, 
2,263,135 needed dental treatment. 

It is true that all these observations have not been based on 
uniform tests and that the state of ill-health of children likewise 
depends on other causes : sequelae of previous infectious diseases, 
faulty hygiene in the home and inadequate amount of sleep 
and exercise in the open air. 

So far as greater height and weight, muscular strength, general 
vitality and more vigorous activity are concerned, there is 
definite proof that much can be done by improved feeding of 
school-children. The evidence is of two kinds : first, derived 
from observations in which diets of school-children in boarding- 
schools have been constant over a period of years and then 
changed over a further period of years ; and, secondly, from 
experiments in which milk or some other supplement has been 
added to the dietary over a period of months, and the effect of 
this change on the children noted. An example of the first of 
the experiments is seen in one English Public School, where the 
diet was closely controlled over the years 1913 to 1933. Between 
the periods 1919-20 and 1928-29, there was a substantial 
increase in milk consumption, butter was substituted for 
vegetable margarine and there was a decreased consumption 
of bread. Associated with these changes in the diet, the average 
height of boys of 11 years of age increased from 4ft. 6.65m. to 
4ft. 7.33m. and that of boys of 15 years of age increased from 
5ft. 2.89m. to 5ft. 3.97m. There was a correspondingly large 
increase in weight of these children during the period of improved 
feeding. Curiously, two other improvements in general condition, 
probably due to increased milk consumption, were observed 
which are of great significance — namely, (a) a great decrease 
in fractures of bones in accidents, and (b) a decrease in 
rheumatism and rheumatic conditions. 



— 47 — 

The effect of adding milk and other supplements to the diet 
for a period of one year was, according to an English writer, 
equally dramatic in its action. A pint of milk added daily to 
what was considered a good diet in an institutional boarding- 
school caused in boys of 6 to n years old an increase of 2.63 
inches in height and of 6.98 lb. in weight as compared with 
increases of only 1.84 inches and 3.85 lb. by similar boys who did 
not receive the supplement of milk. It was also remarked that 
there was much less illness among the extra-milk children, 
especially naso-pharyngeal catarrh, a reduced tendency to 
chilblains, a better condition of the skin, while the children were 
more high-spirited and irrepressible, which may or may not 
be regarded as a good change, but at least indicates that their 
nervous system had shared with the rest of the body in the 
stimulating effect of the milk. Burnet and Aykroyd have given 
accounts of other similar experiments on adding milk to the diet 
of school-children, and it may be taken as completely proved 
that the addition of milk to the diet of school-children would 
greatly increase their average height, weight, strength, vitality 
and general health. 

Since school-children do not develop rickets or bone 
deformities, but only carry the stigma of earlier attacks of 
this disease, it is often assumed that they do not require so 
much milk to supply calcium as in earlier years. There is an 
element of truth in this idea, but only an element. The bones 
and teeth of school-children are growing and calcifying rapidly, 
and defective calcification of bones makes itself obvious by the 
ease with which they break. The frequency of bone fracture is 
a great social problem in some countries, especially in industrial 
countries, and deserves more attention than it receives, and 
there is little doubt that this trouble would be greatly reduced 
by the consumption of larger quantities of milk and other 
protective foods. 

Another important problem of child health is the tendency, 
during the school age, to contract acute rheumatism with its 
tragic associates, chorea, heart disease (rheumatic endocarditis), 
one of the commonest causes of chronic disability, ill-health 
and early death in some countries. If the greater consumption of 
protective foods can reduce these distressing conditions — 



- 4 8 - 

and there is some suggestive evidence that it can do so — 
a great blessing would be conferred on mankind. 

Compulsory education has been generally adopted throughout 
the civilised world. It is agreed that large numbers of school- 
children are not mentally or physically capable of profiting by 
this universally accepted recognition of the social obligation 
to educate the mind of every individual. Might it not be as 
well to make such children more physically and mentally fitted 
to benefit fully from these educational facilities by assuring 
that their nutritional needs are fully satisfied ? 



(e) Adolescence. 

The state of nutrition among adolescents is much less 
accurately known than among school-children. All authorities 
on the subject are, however, agreed that, under normal conditions 
of life, this is one of the most crucial periods. The rapid rate 
of growth of the adolescent makes abundant and efficient 
nutrition particularly important and yet this is a period when 
the State ceases to show a maternal interest in his physical 
well-being. There is evidence that, even in the case of boys and 
girls entering good employment at the age of 14 or 15 with 
reasonably good physique, they suffer much deterioration by 
the age of 18, a condition which is largely due to insufficient 
and unsuitable food eaten during this period. 

This is the age when the most serious cases of pulmonary 
tuberculosis occur. Every tuberculosis specialist is convinced 
that the appearance of tuberculosis before the twentieth year is 
due to two main causes : overwork and malnutrition. 

Although the general incidence of tuberculosis has been 
decreasing in many countries gradually during the past 100 
years, and especially during the past thirty years, it is a 
distressing fact that this rate of reduction does not occur to the 
same extent in the case of adolescent and young adult people. 
Indeed, in young women there has been an increase in 
tuberculosis during recent years in some countries. This state of 
affairs has been ascribed by some to the modern habit of 
"slimming", by others to the greater expenditure dictated by 



— 49 — 

modern habits of life on clothes, which leaves too little money 
for the purchase of proper food. Whatever may be the real 
explanation, it is undoubted that many adolescents in all 
countries, but particularly in industrial countries, are being 
improperly nourished at the present time and are suffering in 
consequence. Efforts of an educative nature ought to be taken 
to make adolescent boys and girls realise that the best health 
and the fullest physical and mental development is only possible 
if their dietary contains an abundance of the protective 
foodstuffs. 

(f) Young Soldiers. 

Military service claims young men at the end of adolescence, 
before they are fully mature. The rejection as unfit of a 
proportion of the men called up is not evidence that malnutrition 
is the only cause of their rejection, but military doctors do, in 
fact, assert, on their knowledge of the facts, that malnutrition 
is one of the main causes. In Belgium, as a result of the 
examination of 49,000 recruits in 1931, it was found that physical 
fitness had declined as compared with pre-war statistics, and 
among the causes (increase in school work, unemployment, 
excessive championship-hunting in sports), the defective feeding 
of children during the war and the increase in the incidence of 
diseases of the digestive tract are ranked first. In Denmark, 
a third of the recruits present a combination of symptoms 
known as " Danish disease " (flat feet, varicose veins, pains in 
the extremities and cramp in the calf of the leg). In Finland, 
notwithstanding the very high level of athletic attainments, 
21% of recruits are rejected, and doctors attribute this to general 
malnutrition among the poorer classes. In Poland, where there 
is a mass of evidence to show the vast extent of malnutrition, 
the proportion of recruits rejected amounts to 50%. It is a 
pity that the examination of recruits is not made more use of 
as a means of enquiry into malnutrition. How can we help 
being alarmed when we learn that, in the army of a large 
European nation, the proportion of men rejected for physical 
unfitness has risen, between 1923 and 1932, from 45.25 to 67.78 
per thousand ? 



— 50 — 

(g) Adults. 

Every fresh enquiry, in town or country, reveals either patent 
or latent malnutrition. 1 

The recent history of the high incidence of malnutrition among 
adults seems to be identified with that of unemployment. If 
unemployment has not augmented the evil of malnutrition 
to the extent that might have been expected, it is because 
malnutrition has been held in check by the development of 
Public Health Services. The effect of unemployment relief is 
reflected in an improvement in the diet of the unemployed. On 
the one hand, expenditure of energy and food requirements 
were diminished, and, on the other, when large-scale social 
organisations take care of the unemployed, the latter's diet, 
though less abundant, is often more rational. 

It would be a mistake to believe that, generally speaking, 
unemployment produces no harmful effects. Its effects are to 
be sought, not so much among the adult unemployed as among 
their growing children. For more than two years now, in the 
United States of America, the Children's Bureau has been 
collecting information of different kinds from various sources 
which proves that the depression is having an increasingly bad 
effect on the nutrition and health of children. Thus, according 
to the New York City records, the percentage of school-children 
in a bad state of nutrition rose between 1929 and 1932 from 16 
to 29 in Manhattan and from 13 to 23 in the Bronx. 
At Philadelphia, among young children under 6 years of age 
examined at the " Community Health Center ", the figure rose 
from 11 (1928-1930) to 24 (in 1932). 

The ravages caused by rickets, the most serious deficiency 
disease in countries of the temperate zone, have been described 
above in the section on children. It is in adult women, however, 



1 In the United States of America, according to a recent communication from the Cost-of-living Division 
in the Ministry of Labor, of 209 families examined in the North-Atlantic States, 14% were found to be under- 
nourished "from every point of view". In Yugoslavia, the so-called "passive" regions, which produce 
neither wheat nor other vegetable foodstuffs, are suffering to a great extent from malnutrition owing to the 
exiguity of their purchasing power. Among certain classes of workers, wages are not sufficient to provide 
an adequate dietary, particularly when there are not enough wage-earning members of the family. In certain 
districts in Northern Sweden, where agricultural production is scanty and foodstuffs are scarce, a deficiency 
of vitamins has been observed. Cases of anaemia and scurvy are not infrequent. 



— 5i — 

that one of the most serious disabilities of rickets becomes 
manifest, although the cause of the trouble has really started in 
the young and adolescent stages of life. The condition referred to 
is contracted or rickety pelvis, a defect frequently found in 
women in industrial centres. The small size and deformed shape 
of the pelvis in such women prevents the easy birth of the 
infant. A greater call on surgical interference is therefore made 
in child-birth under such circumstances, and this not only means 
greater distress to the mother, but also an increase in the liability 
of these women to puerperal fever, one of the commonest causes 
of death after child-birth. This is one of the best examples that 
can be given of the importance of prevention when dealing 
with a common and widespread disorder. The problem of the 
large number of deaths associated with child-birth is rousing 
much interest in some countries. Surely an essential point 
in any attempt to diminish this serious state of affairs is first to 
ensure fully developed and perfectly formed pelvis bones in 
child-bearing women by proper feeding of female children and 
adolescents. If this were attained, surgical help in child-birth 
would be much less needed and there would undoubtedly be 
a diminution in maternal mortality. 

Another deficiency disease, pellagra, still plays havoc in 
temperate countries and causes 3,000 deaths a year in Roumania 
and 4,000 in the United States of America. If complete data 
were available, deficiency diseases, whether patent or latent, and 
their sequelae, would probably be found to occupy a far more 
important place in the annals of malnutrition than at present 
appears. Certain diseases which were thought to have been 
stamped out or to have become very rare are again making 
their appearance. In connection with the privations caused by 
the war, Danish doctors noted a sort of recrudescence of diseases 
of the eye caused by nutritional deficiencies, including a 
deficiency in vitamin A : thickening and opacification of the 
cornea, and weak vision, particularly at dawn and dusk. These 
symptoms would be detected more frequently if they were 
looked for more often. 

There is considerable evidence of the influence of defective 
feeding on the tuberculosis death rate. The figures must be 
treated with caution, because in most cases other physical and 



— 52 — 

mental causes are present, such as overcrowding, slums, overwork 
and worry. But no doctor who has had any experience of 
tuberculosis will deny the influence of diet upon the outset, 
progress and also the prevention and cure of this disease. 
Moreover, there have been, in the recent history of Europe, 
during and after the war, certain sad exceptional periods 
distinguished — unenviably — by food restrictions with which 
have coincided a very marked recrudescence of tuberculosis 
mortality : in the United Kingdom as from 1915, in the 
Netherlands as from 1916 and in French Flanders during the 
enemy occupation ; in Germany, during the war and during 
the inflation period of 1922-23. A few months after the cessation 
of the restrictions or blockade, the death rate fell to its pre-war 
figure. Generally speaking, it had been higher in the towns than 
in the country, because the country population could grow their 
own food and thus were not affected by some of the restrictions. 
In Denmark, the tuberculosis death rate, which had been steadily 
falling before the war, increased a little during the war as a result 
of food restrictions, although at that time there was no housing 
shortage. Subsequently, after the war, the tuberculosis death 
rate resumed its downward trend in spite of a prolonged housing 
shortage ; circumstances had dissociated two of the causes 
of tuberculosis mortality — housing and nutrition — and had 
demonstrated the outstanding importance of the latter. 

Tuberculosis in industrial centres, although diminishing in 
incidence, is still one of the great killing diseases. It must also 
be remembered that, although this disease is being gradually 
reduced, the rate of reduction is much smaller in adults than it 
is in children. In fact, in dealing with adolescents, it was pointed 
out above that the incidence of tuberculosis in young women 
(15-25) and to a less extent in young men has actually increased 
in some years during the past decade. Apart, however, from 
adolescence, the death rate due to tuberculosis in the adult is 
still very high, and it may be hoped that a wider adoption of 
the teachings of the present report by adults will bring about a 
substantial decrease in incidence, together with a corresponding 
fall in the death rate. Bronchitis, like tuberculosis, is a more 
deadly disease among poor people than among the well-to-do, 
in contrast to the greater frequency with which diabetes mellitus 



— 53 — 

and appendicitis occurs among those with more money to 
spend. The position as regards the question of some relationship 
between bronchitis in the adult and malnourishment is similar to 
that of tuberculosis — that is to say, there is only suggestive, 
but not established, evidence of a direct correlation. Here again, 
therefore, it is possible that an increase in the consumption 
of protective foods, especially by poor people, would reduce the 
incidence and death rate due to this disease. 

Though further enquiries will be necessary to establish the 
influence of certain given foodstuffs on human susceptibility or 
resistance to infection, there can be no doubt as to the general 
value of a proper diet in increasing resistance to disease. 

5. The Modern Science of Nutrition 
and the London Report. 1 

The New Science of Nutrition. 

In determining human dietary standards, physiologists 
in the past have generally devoted their attention to minimum 
requirements. Such was the usual standpoint of Governments 
and administrations when called upon to fix the rations for 
bodies of workers, or to feed large masses of soldiers and 
civilians in war, or when obliged to assist the unemployed 
and their families during the time of industrial depression. 

The idea of an optimum diet, on the other hand, has been 
developed and brought into pre-eminence by modern science. 
An optimum diet is one which provides for the full development 
of the individual for efficiency without exhaustion and for 
his resistance to disease. 

The standard for adequate nutrition, like the standard for 
hygiene in general, cannot be limited to that required for 
the prevention of avoidable diseases by means of a minimum 
or barely adequate diet ; the business of adequate nutrition 
is to create health by means of the optimum diet. 

Many of the well-recognised vitamin-deficiency diseases — such 
as scurvy, rickets, beri-beri, pellagra — are caused by severe, 



1 The London Report on "The Physiological Bases of Nutrition" by the Technical Commission of the 
Health Committee in November 1935. It has since been revised and amplified and in this form is reproduced 
as Volume II of the present report (see Introduction). 



— 54 — 

prolonged deficiency of one or other of the essential protective 
vitamins. Except for rickets, they are, fortunately, of relatively 
rare occurrence in temperate regions, and their full manifestation 
can usually be prevented by a minimal intake of the appropriate 
preventive factors. Much more common are the latent states of 
malnutrition, which may give rise to no visible disease — states 
which might be called pre-rickets and pre-osteoporosis, pre-pella- 
gra, pre-beri-beri, pre-cariesorthe formation of teeth of imperfect 
architecture. The opportunity that lies before the science of 
preventive nutritional medicine rests upon the knowledge 
that these states exist and upon the proof of the necessity 
for striving after optimum nutrition rather than minimum 
nutrition. 

In this connection, it has been observed that nutritional 
research will exercise a greater influence in preventive medicine 
by increasing the vitality of the human species, with all that 
that implies, than by preventing the frank " deficiency diseases ". 
The importance of this fact has not yet been fully recognised. 
The health of the individual, in the majority of cases, is 
destroyed, not so often by severe attacks of illness (which 
are more in the nature of accidents), as by the gradual 
action of persistent but unrecognised causes, of which one of 
the most important is a badly composed dietary. This is 
one cause of inferior physical development and nervous 
instability, of lack of recuperative power and endurance, and 
consequently of cumulative fatigue and lack of resistance to 
tuberculosis and other infections. Moreover, the diet largely 
influences the rate at which the organism ages and consequently 
the duration of life. 

Preventive action against such nutritional diseases as scurvy, 
rickets and beri-beri, although superficially more impressive, 
is probably of less importance to the human race than the 
acquisition and application of such knowledge as will also 
improve the general condition and well-being of every man, 
woman and child, through the better choice, provision and 
utilisation of foodstuffs. 

Such are the principles underlying the work of the Commission 
of Physiologists appointed by the Health Committee which 
held its first session in London at the end of November 1935. 



55 — 



6. Dietary Standards adopted in the London Report. 

The Assembly resolution of 1935 recommended that the 
technical organisations of the League should make a study of 
nutrition in its relation to public health, labour, agriculture, 
trade and social progress. The basis of this work being the 
science of nutrition, it was necessary to obtain a pronouncement 
from nutritional experts as to the nutritional needs of the human 
being in the course of its development, from conception to 
the adult age. This pronouncement is contained in the report 
of the London Commission. 

The question of human nutritional requirements has been 
under the close consideration of physiologists during the last 
three-quarters of a century, their conclusions being based 
either : (1) on the average spontaneous consumption of 
population groups ; (2) on statistics of food production and food 
imports and exports for a nation or a city ; or (3) on direct 
experiment with calorimetry on animals and human beings. 
The answers given by the scientists are matters of importance 
for public health, labour, agriculture, trade and public and 
private finance, and have been both numerous and varied. 
This circumstance has been a matter of amusement at times 
to the layman, but a source of anxiety and difficulty to the 
medical men and administrators who have to prescribe for 
individuals and to feed communities and masses of the 
population. Opinions regarding the necessary number of calories 
follow two tendencies : one towards the maximum and the other 
towards the minimum requirements. 

In the London report, the two aspects of nutrition, the 
quantitative and qualitative, described in the Introduction 
to this memorandum, and the fundamental importance of 
protective foods, are brought out by the division of the report 
into two parts : I — dealing with energy, protein, and fat 
requirements ; II — dealing with mineral and vitamin 
requirements. In both parts, the dominant idea is the needs 
of the human being during development. At the beginning of 
life, the child is inseparable from the mother, and additions, 
not only of energy, but also of protein and of all protective 



- 56 - 

elements, are prescribed for pregnant women, nursing mothers, 
infants, children and adolescents. 



(a) Energy Requirements. 

The human race is not made up of arithmetical units, but 
of adults, adolescents and children of both sexes ; of childless 
women, pregnant women and nursing mothers ; of workers 
both manual and sedentary, and of idlers. If the ration for 
an adult male (and, even so, what type of male adult is 
meant ?) is taken as unity, what is the proper fraction for a 
woman, or for a child at different ages, or for an adolescent 
at different stages of growth ? In other words, what coefficient 
is to be used for conversion of the standard to the appropriate 
figures for each class ? There are in existence a score of scales 
of coefficients among which physiologists and hygienists can 
choose. The need is now felt, however, for a common scale 
which will allow of uniformity in national and international 
comparisons. The question was considered by the Rome 
Conference of Experts (1932), but only a provisional 
solution was reached. The questions of the standard calorie 
ration for the male adult and of the scale of coefficients were 
therefore dealt with at the London meeting. 

Instead of adopting a mean figure representing the needs 
of an adult man performing an average but indeterminate 
output of work, the Commission fixed a basic figure representing 
the requirement for maintenance to which supplements are 
to be added for work, growth, pregnancy and lactation. This 
basic figure represents the need of the average adult, male 
or female, living an ordinary everyday life in a temperate 
climate and not engaged in manual work. The needs of such 
an adult are stated to be met by 2,400 calories net [i.e., after 
deducting waste in cooking and at table) per day. Most 
authorities have agreed upon this figure for the type of adult 
under consideration ; and it so happens that the figure is 
convenient for calculation on a basis of 100 calories per hour. 
Conditions and age being equal, no difference is made between 
the sexes. 



— 57 — 

As the amount of muscular effort varies with the occupation 
and the number of hours of work, it is convenient to calculate 
the supplements on an hourly basis. Four grades of work are 
distinguished — light, moderate, hard and very hard — within 
which it will be possible for hygienists and engineers to place 
any given form of work. 

(b) Protective Foods, Mineral and Vitamin Requirements. 

In Part II of the London report, stress is laid on the need 
for protective foods. These are expressed in everyday terms 
as milk, butter, cheese, eggs, meat, potatoes, fresh green 
vegetables and fresh fruit. Sunlight is also reckoned as a 
protective nutritional agent, because it generates vitamin D 
in the organism. 

Milk. 

The need for milk in the human dietary. — The use of the milk 
of cows and other mammals in the diet of the human race is as 
old as the history of mankind, and during the long ages in which 
it has been thus used its value has ever been highly esteemed. 
A land " flowing with milk " was the ideal of pastoral tribes 
in ancient times and will still remain the ideal, if the correct 
nutrition and health of the people receive due consideration. 

The value of milk is well demonstrated by a survey of the 
dietary habits of the different native races inhabiting the world. 
Fine physique, good health and virility are usually seen in races 
where milk has an important place in the diet, as, for example, 
amongst the Arabs and other races inhabiting South-Western 
Asia and South-Eastern Europe. The contrast in health, 
strength and stamina is proverbial between the Hill tribes of 
India, who partake largely of milk, and those dwelling in the 
plains, where the diet is more exclusively vegetarian and consists 
largely of cereals. 

Modern scientific research has entirely confirmed the empirical 
conclusions drawn from human experience as to the dietary 
value of milk. Milk, which is designed to afford complete 
nutrition to the mammalian young, is known to contain all 



- 5 8- 

the factors needed for satisfatory nutrition, combined in a 
suitably proportioned mixture of : 

(i) Protein of good quality, 

(2) Fat, 

(3) Carbohydrate, 

(4) Mineral salts, 

(5) Vitamins. 

In this respect, milk is the nearest approach we possess to a 
perfect and complete food, and no other single food is known that 
can be used as a substitute. If this had not been so, milk would 
long ago have disappeared from the dietary of civilised peoples, 
especially of those dwelling in cities. For milk is not only the 
most nutritious, but is also the most inconvenient, and at times 
may be a dangerous foodstuff. For its high nutritive value 
makes it also a perfect medium for the growth of other organisms, 
including bacteria. In other words, milk will not " keep ", and 
an elaborate organisation is needed to bring it regularly to the 
consumer in a fresh condition. Apart from the bacteria concerned 
with the " natural " processes of souring and putrefaction, milk 
may also act as a vehicle for the spread of the germs of definite 
disease, such as tuberculosis, diphtheria, typhoid and scarlet 
fevers. The reason why, in spite of these drawbacks, we continue 
to include milk in our diet is because its value is unique and we 
cannot do without it. 

The nutritive value of milk. — (i) The proteins contained in 
milk, lactalbumin and casein, possess a high nutritive value, since 
the amino-acids of which they are composed make them especially 
suited to supply the requirements of growth in the young, as 
well as of maintenance in the adult. 

(ii) The carbohydrate is present in milk in a soluble form, 
as milk-sugar. 

(iii) The fats of milk are present in an emulsion of different 
fats of low melting-point. Milk-fat, when separated as butter, 
is the most digestible and acceptable fat known to us and is a 
source of the vitamins A and D. 



— 59 — 

(iv) Minerals : cow's milk is one of the foods richest in 
salts, especially in calcium salts and phosphates. These two 
minerals are essential constituents of every cell in the body, 
so that an adequate supply is necessary for the maintenance 
of health at all ages. An abundant provision is specially 
necessary for the growing child, to support the growth of the 
bony tissues and teeth. The amount of lime in cow's milk 
(1.5 — 2 parts per 1,000) is only equalled by that contained in 
some green vegetables. In milk, however, the lime salts are 
present in a form specially easy of absorption. 

(v) Vitamins: while the nutritive value of cow's milk 
depends to some extent on the diet and management of the cow, 
yet the nature and proportion of the protein, carbohydrate, 
fat and salts it contains are maintained with remarkable 
constancy over a wide range of variation in the type of feeding 
adopted. There is, however, more variation in the vitamin 
content, and the highest value in this respect is only found in the 
milk of cows which are exposed to the rays of the sun and fed on 
their natural diet of fresh green herbage— i.e., on pasture in the 
summer ; nevertheless, winter milk remains a valuable foodstuff 
in this respect. It is true that the amount of the antirachitic 
vitamin D, so essential for the growing child, is much reduced 
in winter milk. 

Vitamin D, however, whose physiological function is to 
secure the retention in the body of the lime salts and phosphates 
ingested in the food, acts with much greater economy when these 
salts are present in abundance in the diet. In many climates 
in the winter, therefore, when, owing to the lack of sunshine, 
the growing child is unable to synthesise vitamin D for itself, 
an abundant supply of milk is specially needed, for the salts 
thus supplied will enhance the action of the diminished amount 
of vitamin D present in the milk and other articles of food. 

The composition of the proteins of milk makes them specially 
adapted for the support of growth in young organisms and gives 
them a definite supplementary action towards those of cereals, 
which are inferior in nutritive value. Milk, it is recommended, 
should represent a large proportion of the diet at every age. 
The London report approved the tendency displayed in certain 



— 6o — 

countries to increase the consumption of milk to as much as 
one litre per day for pregnant women and nursing mothers, and 
to provide a comparatively large quantity for infants, children 
and adolescents. For these classes, it strongly recommends free 
or cheap milk distribution. It calls attention to the nutritive 
value of skim milk, which, although it has lost its fat and fat- 
soluble vitamins, retains many other valuable nutrients. It 
therefore deplores the way in which this valuable food is wasted 
in many countries. Of other milk products, cheese retains the 
proteins of milk, a large proportion of the calcium salts and 
vitamins, while butter is the most digestible and generally 
nutritious fat in the modern dietary. 

Eggs. 

Eggs are important as a source of good protein and of valuable 
minerals, including iron ; the fat contained in the yolk is a 
rich source of most vitamins, especially of the B vitamins, also 
of the antirachitic vitamin D, which is otherwise sparsely 
distributed in foodstuffs. 

Meat. 

Meat has a special value as a source of protein and iron. 
Its popularity is chiefly due to its appetising and stimulating 
properties ; but, from the nutritional point of view, the protein 
of ordinary muscle meat is inferior to that of eggs or milk. 
The glandular tissues, on the other hand — liver, kidney, sweet- 
bread (pancreas) — are among the most highly nutritious foods 
we possess, as regards the character of the protein, the mineral 
and vitamin content. They are also rich in a substance which 
stimulates the formation of red blood-cells in the bone marrow. 

Green and Leafy Vegetables. 

Green leafy vegetables are rich in the B vitamins and in 
vitamin A ; they are also among the richest sources of the 
antiscorbutic vitamin C. Since this vitamin is sensitive to heat, 
the dietary value of uncooked salads is obvious. 

The abundance of minerals and vitamins in green vegetables 
and the special character of the protein, although present in 



— 61 — 

small quantities, make them of great value, especially as 
supplementary foods to a diet containing cereals. Just as 
among pastoral communities the defects of a cereal diet may 
be corrected with milk and dairy products, so, under other 
circumstances, correction can be obtained by green vegetables. 
In the densely populated regions of Southern China, for example, 
where animal foods cannot be raised, the deficiencies of the 
rice diet are largely repaired by the abundance of vegetables 
eaten. 

Fruit. 

The special nutritive value of fruit depends on high vitamin C 
(ascorbic acid) content. Different fruits vary greatly in their 
vitamin C content, the richest being citrus fruits {e.g., oranges 
and lemons). Tomatoes are also valuable : grapes are relatively 
poor. 

The total absence of vitamin C from the diet results in scurvy. 
In this serious condition, haemorrhages may occur in all parts 
of the body, often accompanied by intense pain ; the gums are 
swollen and the teeth loosened. With infants and children, 
serious lesions occur in the bony tissues. Florid scurvy is 
developed under conditions of severe dietetic restriction ; 
but there is evidence that a less severe deficiency may lead to 
a departure from good health, the cause of which is not easily 
diagnosed. 

Vitamin C is readily destroyed by heat, so that fruit jams 
and preserves usually contain none. It is probable that preserved 
fruits, however, may possess a dietary value due to their mineral 
content. Oranges, again, are rich in calcium salts, while grapes 
are rich in iron, and fruits generally may have a special value 
in supplying mineral constituents to those on otherwise restricted 
diets. Fruits having a yellow colour — e.g., oranges and tomatoes 
— are often useful sources of vitamin A owing to their carotene 
content. 

Cod-liver Oil. 

The importance of cod-liver oil was stressed in the London 
report as a source of vitamin D for infants and growing children, 
especially for those living under climatic, seasonal and social 



— 62 — 

conditions where sunshine is limited. It is also a valuable source 
of iodine and vitamin A. 



(c) Energy-bearing Foods. 

The London report sets out some specimen diets for various 
age-groups up to the age of 5 years and for mothers. In these, 
the report so arranged the protective foods as to yield 
approximately 1,400 calories per head without the inclusion 
of any cereals, fats or sugar. These would have to be added as 
required to satisfy the energy requirements of any individual, 
as distinct from his essential mineral and vitamin requirements. 

In their general recommendations, the experts, in the London 
report, emphasised the following views : 

" Although a simplified diet may be so constituted from 
a few protective foods as to be satisfactory, it is a general 
principle that variety in diet tends to safety, provided it 
contains a sufficiency of the protective types of food 
materials." 

" White flour in the process of milling is deprived of 
important nutritive elements. Its use should be decreased and 
partial substitution by lightly milled cereals, and especially 
by potatoes, is recommended. The consumption of an excessive 
amount of sugar is to be condemned, and in this case also 
partial replacement by potatoes is urged." 

It will be noted that the London report recommends the 
modification in many countries of the proportions hitherto 
occupied in dietaries by the three foods named. 

Cereals. 

Cereals form a most convenient and acceptable food of high 
energy value and for centuries they have been the staple food 
of the great Asiatic and Mediterranean civilisations. Their 
value is self-evident ; but, in Europe especially, partly because 
of the increased availability of protective foods, their 
consumption has tended to diminish, except under conditions 
of heavy manual labour or because of limitations in income. 
At the same time, cereals are being consumed more and more 



- 63 - 

widely in a highly milled form. The report suggests that bread 
should be made more protective by restoring to the flour, as far 
as possible, the special nutritive principles contained in the husk 
and germ of the grain, particularly the vitamin B group. This 
recommendation, issued at a moment when the question of 
different kinds of bread is being discussed in every European 
country, is of great importance both for economic as well as 
for hygienic reasons. 

Sugar. 

In the last thirty years, sugar has become one of the 
cheapest forms of calories and the consumption has increased 
manifold in many European countries, especially among the 
poorer sections of the populations. In the United Kingdom, 
it has been estimated that a fivefold increase in average con- 
sumption has taken place during the last hundred years. Refined 
sugar, like highly milled cereal products, provides energy 
without any protective elements. An excessive proportion of 
sugar in the diet is especially bad for children, whose instinct 
to eat it seems altogether out of proportion to its nutritional 
qualities, since it occupies the place which should be filled by 
protective foods. It also spoils the appetite for the latter, which 
are even more necessary during the period of growth than in 
adult life. 

Potatoes. 

Special attention is called to the value of the potato as a 
food rich in calories and in starch and is particularly suited to 
substitute sugar and cereals in the modern European diet. 
The introduction of sugar and white flour to populations in 
remote districts has been followed by the occurrence of dental 
disease previously unknown. Examples are found among the 
inhabitants of Iceland, among Esquimo and native Indian tribes 
in Alaska and Western Canada and among the races inhabiting 
Northern Scandinavia. A large proportion of potatoes in the 
diet encourages no such predisposition to dental disease as is 
the case with cereals ; populations showing relative freedom 
from dental disease with high consumption of potatoes are found 
in certain islands of the Hebrides, in rural Finland and in Poland, 
and in Tristan da Cunha, in which island at the present time 



- 6 4 - 

potatoes form a large proportion of the dietary, and dental caries 
is a rarity. Potatoes are also a valuable source of iron and 
vitamin C, and one of particular value, because they retain a 
high proportion of their vitamin C content after cooking. 

7. Problems recommended for Further Study. 

The London report is no more than the physiological basis 
of the concerted work conducted by the technical organisations 
of the League of Nations. It requires to be amplified by a 
series of practical investigations into nutrition in its relation 
to public health. 

Among the problems earmarked in the report, some represent 
an extension of the questions that could not be fully discussed 
at the first session : minimum vitamin, mineral and fat 
requirements ; nutritive value of the various proteins, of various 
cereals according to the degree of milling, and sugar. The other 
questions form an integral part of the subject-matter of the 
London proceedings — namely, the nutritive requirements of 
the human being from conception up to adult age. They cannot 
be separated from it. The economist and the agriculturist 
have been provided with the needful data, but the application 
of the London report to nutritional hygiene is not possible 
without a study of these supplementary problems. 

1. Nutritive food requirements during the first year of life 
(or infancy). 

2. The extent to which diets in common use fall below the 
standards recommended in this report. 

This involves the comparison of requirements as defined in 
the London report with resources available to mankind for 
their satisfaction. 

3. Assessment of nutritional state, especially that of children. 

These are the lines upon which the London report should 
be further expanded. Such a plan of work must necessarily 
be carried out internationally. The principles laid down in 
the report will be applied in different countries and will need 



- 65 - 

adaptation to a variety of populations, conditions, resources 
and forms of social life. Leaving aside the question of institutions 
and economic conditions, the rations as denned in the report 
will, for practical purposes, have to be expressed in terms of 
the foodstuffs which are customary in each country. The 
Commission which met in London accordingly decided that its 
report would be communicated for study to representative 
scientific institutions of various countries, which would, in 
turn, seek the advice of specialists interested in the various 
aspects of nutrition : internal medicine, pediatrics, school 
hygiene, preventive medicine, etc. It has thus organised an 
extensive scientific consultation on the bases laid down in 
the report and on the problems which it has recommended 
for further study. 

The institutions consulted are of three kinds : 

(i) National academies, academies of medicine and 
academies of science — this applies to Belgium, France, the 
Netherlands and Spain ; 

(2) National scientific research councils — this applies to 
the United Kingdom, the United States of America and 
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics ; 

(3) National nutrition commissions, already in existence 
and prepared to undertake this co-operation (Denmark, 
Italy) or specially set up for the purpose (Norway, Sweden). 
These commissions consist of physiologists, clinicians and 
hygienists. 

Exchanges of views between the League of Nations Health 
Organisation and these institutions have led to an extension 
of the programme of work referred to them. 

Among the specifically scientific questions recommended 
for study in the London report, it is natural that each institution 
should select those which are of immediate interest to it, because 
they correspond to health and social requirements or because 
they are being specially studied by certain scientists. 

The problems which are noted as the most important and 
most urgent are nutritive food requirements in infancy, tests 
for the assessment of the state of nutrition, and the comparison 



— 66 — 

of requirements with available resources. On this last point, 
it does not seem probable that any findings can be arrived at 
in the near future, since this is a question which requires a 
staff trained in the conduct of social enquiries, time and money. 
So far as concerns the other two, however, which constitute 
the plan of immediate work, the Health Organisation will 
arrange for international technical consultations by commissions 
of experts. 

These consultations will, in addition, cover a number of 
questions which, although not expressly mentioned in the 
appended list of the London report, have been implicitly raised 
by the proceedings of the Commission and the text of its report, 
among them the problem of milk. 

Concerted international action would greatly stimulate the 
development of rational nutrition. An enormous mass of 
information on nutrition is available in the world, but it is 
fragmentary, heterogeneous and frequently devoid of scientific 
basis. As will be seen, many institutions have been created to 
improve nutrition, but some are working by empirical methods 
and have not yet been brought into line with the modern science 
of nutrition. So far, it is very difficult for the hygienist to 
ascertain the real state of nutrition. It is from a comparison 
of requirements and resources that the most instructive 
knowledge will be derived. Laboratory research and statistics 
are essential, but enquiries among particular groups of the 
population are still more so. If any slogan were required for 
use at the present time, it could only be this : " Enquiries and 
still more enquiries ". 



8. Principles of Government Action. 

Nutrition has become an essential part of public health 
work. Gradually, under pressure of circumstances, Governments 
have adopted measures of protection and assistance in regard 
to food supply. 

It is now recognised that care for popular nutrition is a task 
no less essential for the public health services than, for instance, 
the campaign against tuberculosis. 



- 6 7 - 

From an examination of existing institutions and the large 
volume of information communicated to the Mixed Committee, 
it is already possible to discern the general direction of effort 
in the field of nutrition for the purpose of safeguarding and 
improving public health. 

The natural role of the State is to be responsible for legislation 
and general direction and control ; the local authorities are 
principally responsible for executive action ; and private 
initiative in general for the various activities which may be 
classed as social service. Just as there are supreme National 
Defence Councils and National Economic Councils, so there 
should also be a National Food Council. This Council would 
study food problems and their influence on social life. 

There is no civilised country without its food legislation, its 
food inspectors, and its laboratories for analysing foodstuffs. 
The object in view was for a long time mainly to enforce fair 
trading (prevention of adulteration), but has come more and 
more to be the protection of health by the verification of nutritive 
values according to recent scientific discoveries. Staple and 
widely consumed foodstuffs — bread, milk and tinned foods — 
are already subject to special health regulations. Pharmacological 
preparations of vitamins should be officially assayed and passed. 
The regulations for the proper preservation of foodstuffs might 
well be collected in a " Food Code ". 

The Government should be kept informed of the position as 
regards production and consumption by its general and special 
statistical services. To ascertain and compare the food 
requirements, the food resources and the state of health of the 
people considered in relation to their actual food intake, it 
must depend upon enquiries into population groups and their 
family budgets. These enquiries should form the basis of the 
country's food policy, just as in some countries they are the 
basis for the fixing of wages. They should be carried on 
constantly, so as to provide " nutrition indices ' continually 
reflecting changing conditions. 

Apart from the direct action taken in health institutions 
(health centres, milk dispensaries, consultation and other 
clinics, holiday camps, etc.), the State should encourage, direct, 
legislate for, and superintend the application of scientific methods 



— 68 — 

of proved efficacy. For motherhood, there is need for an 
additional supply of protective foodstuffs, especially milk, 
for pregnant women. For infants, the lessons of the new science 
of nutrition should be applied both to breast feeding and to 
artificial feeding. When necessary, milk, and school meals — 
which should include protective foodstuffs, especially milk — 
should be provided for children of pre-school and school age 
in order to prevent irreparable malformation and physical 
deficiency. For other classes of the community who may need 
it, assistance should be given partly in the form of food. 



Chapter III. 

NUTRITION AND LABOUR. 

Survey of the Nutrition Problem by the International Labour Office. 



In its report issued in June 1936, entitled "Workers' Nutrition 
and Social Policy ", the International Labour Office surveyed 
the problem of adequate nutrition for workers in considerable 
detail. It is therefore unnecessary to consider the problem at 
length here. All that will be presented here is a brief summary 
of some of the most significant findings of the report of the 
International Labour Office. 

The report begins with a consideration of the physiological 
relationships between food consumed and work performed. 
The attempt is made to evaluate various dietary standards 
that have been put forward for the benefit of workers engaged 
in particular types of work. The conclusion is reached that this 
field of enquiry is still in an undeveloped state and that a 
considerable amount of exploration and study remain to be 
done before definitive results can be formulated. 

The International Labour Office report then goes on to survey 
the " facts on workers' diets ". This part of the report is based 
on family budget enquiries and on statistics of national 
consumption of certain foodstuffs. The consumption of the 
main classes of food by workers' families in different countries 
at different income levels is examined ; the nutrition problems 
of special workers' groups — such as agricultural workers, native 
labour, and unemployed workers during the recent depression — 
are briefly surveyed. Although it is recognised that the 
statistical data are insufficient for arriving at definite conclusions, 
a number of broad generalisations (discussed below in some 
detail) are stated. 

In two succeeding chapters, the report considers the productive 
capacity of agriculture to meet the requirements of an adequate 
diet and sketches the social and economic aspects of the problem. 
The general conclusions reached are, first, that the actual and 



— 70 — 

potential productive capacity of agriculture is sufficient to 
assure a higher level of diet for the workers ; and, second, that 
the fundamental question involved is that of raising the 
purchasing power of the working population. It is pointed 
out that much of the workers' expenditure, other than for food, 
is usually of a type that cannot be lowered or postponed. 
Though the available evidence shows that, as the workers' 
purchasing power increases, their food purchases provide diets 
of increasing nutritive value, there is keen competition for 
the workers' earnings between food expenditures and other 
budgetary expenditures, such as housing, customary pleasures 
or cultural activities. Consequently, improvement of nutrition 
standards is closely related to the improvement of living 
standards generally. 

After this general survey, the report devotes two chapters 
to social legislation in its bearing upon dietary standards and to 
existing agencies for improving popular nutrition. In the latter 
chapter, the organisation and activities of public, semi-public 
and private agencies dealing with nutrition are briefly described. 

For the present purpose, two questions will be treated here : 
first, What light do family budget enquiries throw upon 
the dietaries of workers in different countries and at different 
levels of the income scale ? Secondly, What approaches have been 
made by social and labour legislation towards improving the 
nutrition of workers ? 

i. Workers' Diets and Under-nourishment. 

Statements concerning the dietaries of workers in different 
countries and at different income levels cannot but be provisional 
and approximate at best. Such statements are based largely 
on family budget enquiries, whose statistical and other 
limitations are carefully considered in the International Labour 
Office report. Regardless of these limitations, the data do permit 
some broad generalisations which are summarised below. 

National Differences in Workers' Diets. 

The first important conclusion which emerges from an analysis 
of family budget enquiries is that the dietaries obtaining among 



— 7i — 

workers in different countries are in definite relation to national 
standards of living. In countries where the general standard 
of consumption may be assumed to be relatively high, workers' 
dietaries tend to approach closer to approved nutritional 
standards than in countries where the general standard 
of consumption may be assumed to be relatively low. More 
specifically, the consumption of bread and cereals by workers, 
with due allowance for national tastes and habits, tends on the 
whole to be higher in industrially less advanced countries and 
to be lower in the more advanced countries ; meat and fish, on the 
one hand, and milk, milk products and eggs, on the other, show 
an opposite tendency ; fats and margarine manifest no clear 
trend ; the same applies to fruits and vegetables in general. 

Workers' Diets at Different Income Levels. 

The data available for the various countries studied show that 
daily calorie consumption tends to increase as workers advance 
along the income scale. It is significant that the calorie 
consumption at the lowest income levels in a number of countries 
falls below the London standard of 2,400 calories (net) daily. 
Thus, the budgetary enquiries among Polish workers indicate 
a rise from 2,200 calories in the lowest income group to 3,140 
calories in the highest. Preliminary figures from a small sample 
taken from the large study now under way in the United States 
of America show that workers in the lower income groups 
obtain only 2,130 calories daily. The calorie intake for German 
workers ranges from 2,530 to 3,190 ; for Swedish workers, the 
variations take place on a higher level, from 3,120 to 3,480 
calories. 

Although the materials available for analysis are meagre, they 
seem to point towards the conclusion that the majority of 
low-income workers consume an insufficient quantity of calories 
to satisfy physiological requirements, on the basis of the 
standards set up by the Technical Committee of the Health 
Section of the League of Nations. 

The conclusions which may be drawn concerning the adequacy 
of protein intake by workers are entirely approximate. If 70 
grammes per day per adult male weighing 70 kgs. may be 
regarded as a satisfactory minimum standard, then the intake 



— 72 — 

of protein by workers in the lowest income group falls below 
such standard in many countries. The available data also 
suggest that, within each country, the consumption of animal 
proteins varies directly with the worker's income, while 
the consumption of vegetable proteins remains relatively 
constant. 

Available data on fat consumption are scarce. They indicate 
that fat consumption by workers varies directly with income. 
Only a few budget enquiries contain data on the consumption 
of carbohydrates. Those data lead to conflicting results. In 
Sweden, it would seem that consumption of carbohydrates 
remains somewhat constant at different income levels. In the 
United States of America, on the contrary, the preliminary 
figures show that the consumption of carbohydrates rises 
appreciably with income. 

The data on the consumption of particular foodstuffs by 
workers show that the quantity of foodstuffs consumed rises 
with increasing income and that the dietaries become more 
varied as workers advance along the income scale. At the same 
time, more adequate amounts of the protective foods are 
introduced into the diet. Almost all the family budget 
enquiries examined reveal a considerable rise in the consumption 
of meat and fish by workers as the income scale is ascended. The 
expansion is marked in all countries, but particularly so in the 
relatively poor countries. The consumption of fats and margarine 
by workers varies inversley with income. In general, it would 
seem that, at the very lowest level of income, workers concentrate 
their dietaries on bread and cereals ; with the first increases 
above this level, more cheap fats and meat are consumed ; 
with further increases in income, butter is introduced into the 
diet. 

The data on the consumption of milk, milk products and eggs 
reveal the same tendency as the data on the consumption of 
meat and fish. Consumption rises very definitely with rising 
income. The poorer the country, the greater the spread between 
the quantities of milk, milk products and eggs consumed by 
workers at the bottom and at the top of the income scale. 

The data on fruits and vegetables are difficult to interpret, 
because this group contains some of the most important 



— 73 — 

protective foods — fresh fruits and green vegetables — as well 
as some of the most bulky energy-yielding foods, such as 
potatoes and other root crops. In a general way, it appears 
that, as workers obtain larger incomes, they shift from bread 
and cereals to potatoes and other root crops for the satisfaction 
of their energy requirements. With regard to green vegetables, 
there is a marked tendency for consumption to increase with 
rising income. Even more marked is a similar tendency in the 
consumption of fresh fruits. 

To sum up, the family budget studies brought together in 
the International Labour Office report indicate two important 
facts. First, that the consumption of protective foodstuffs 
increases greatly with increasing incomes, whereas the 
consumption of cereals remains more or less stationary. Workers' 
families with low incomes evidently find the protective foods 
too expensive and cannot afford them. The question of income 
is thus at the root of the workers' nutrition problem. 

Second, an examination of the diets of the different income 
groups among workers shows that, on the basis of the London 
standards, the average diet in the lower income groups is 
inadequate for good health. The inference is that, among such 
groups especially, there is both malnourishment and under- 
nourishment. 

The above statements are based on data which relate to 
the consumption of food among employed workers. A priori, 
therefore, it might be expected that unemployed workers during 
the depression of the last few years have found it impossible 
to maintain satisfactory dietary standards. In fact, such few 
studies as are available for analysis indicate in general that, 
with some exceptions owing to special measures of social policy, 
such has been the case. 

2. Social and Labour Legislation. 

There are four main ways in which social and labour legislation 
touches directly or indirectly on the problem of workers' 
nutrition : 

First, the amount and regularity of the worker's income— 
during periods when he has a job — are determined in part by 



— 74 — 

legislation which relates to the fixing of minimum wages and 
of family allowances, to the promotion of collective bargaining, 
to the forms in which and the intervals at which wages shall 
be paid, etc. 

Second, the amount and regularity of the worker's income 
— during periods when he is out of a job — are determined in 
part by legislation which relates to insurance or relief in case 
of unemployment, invalidity, old age, etc. 

Third, working conditions proper, as they relate to the meal 
periods during the work-day and the circumstances under which 
such meals are taken, are a frequent subject-matter of legislation. 

Fourth, arrangements under which the employer is fully 
or partially responsible for the worker's board are also subject 
to a certain amount of legislative control. 

A consideration of nutrition standards does not, as a rule, 
enter directly into the legislative control of wages, insurance 
benefits or relief allowances. At the most, such legislative control 
aims at assuring a " living wage " or a " reasonable wage ". 
These are concepts which assume levels of nutrition actually 
existent rather than ideal standards. In principle, however, the 
legislative safeguarding of workers' incomes provides one of the 
fundamental conditions of adequate nutrition in so far as 
purchasing power is an important determinant of the worker's 
food consumption. 

A more direct concern with nutrition enters into the legislation 
which aims at the abolition or the strict control of the " truck 
system ". Basic to this legislation is the belief that the worker 
will be better paid if paid in cash rather than in food ; and that 
he will be better fed if free to buy at his own will rather than 
restricted to shops dictated by the employer. 

Direct nutritional objectives are also manifest in the laws 
which require that workers be permitted a pause (or pauses) 
for a meal (or meals) ; that the pause or pauses be of not less 
than a certain minimum duration (half an hour, an hour, 
an hour and a half, etc.) ; that sanitary and adequate facilities 
for taking meals be provided by the employer (in certain 
establishments, industries or districts where midday meals at 
home would not be practicable), etc. The importance of such 
legislation cannot be over-stressed. In almost all countries, the 



— 75 — 

routine of the worker's meals is adjusted to the routine of the 
workplace. Unless a proper balance be struck between the two, 
the worker's dietary is bound to be adversely affected. 

Many groups of workers, finally, receive part of their wages 
in food. This is true of agricultural labourers in general, native 
labourers in particular, domestic servants, hotel and restaurant 
employees, and seamen. The nutritional problems of such 
workers are frequently the subject-matter of direct legislative 
control. So far as agricultural labourers, domestic servants, 
and hotel and restaurant employees are concerned, the legislative 
control tends to be couched in general terms : such workers 
are to receive " reasonable " amounts of " wholesome ' and 
" substantial ' food. With regard to native labourers and 
seamen, however, the legislative control tends to be much 
more definite : it often specifies the actual foods and the actual 
amounts which shall serve as the minimum basis. While such 
legislation may be misapplied and give rise to abuses, the 
principle involved is in accord with protective social policy. 

The survey of existing labour and social legislation in its 
bearing on the improvement of workers' nutrition leads to two 
principal conclusions : first, except in a few special cases 
(regulation of the truck system and of working conditions ; 
native labour and seamen), legislation does not attack the 
problem of nutrition directly or in detail. Second, such efforts 
as have been made to deal with nutrition in fixing minimum- 
wage standards, setting the terms of collective agreements, or 
devising scales of insurance benefit and relief allowances, 
are based on an empirical approach rather than on scientific 
studies. 

In brief, the gaps between available knowledge on nutrition 
and the application of this knowledge in legislative practice 
are very wide indeed. The problem is to bridge these gaps and 
to bring legislation and public agencies to bear directly upon 
the groups of workers — low income and unemployed for the 
most part — whose diets are deficient in quantity and quality. 
It is a task of relating action for improving workers' nutrition 
to the general problem of social policy. 

* 
* * 



- 7 6- 

The report concludes with an analysis of the educational, 
research and social-economic problems involved in improving 
levels of nutrition to the desired standards. These problems 
call first of all for action on a national plane. But international 
co-operation is indispensable in order that efforts to improve 
workers' nutrition may be in harmony with the needs of world 
economy. It is pointed out that such international measures 
are part of the general programme of the International Labour 
Organisation for raising living standards in all countries as a 
condition sina qua non of social justice and peace. 



Chapter IV. 

SOME CONSIDERATIONS ON THE ECONOMIC ASPECTS 
OF THE NUTRITION PROBLEM. 



It is not necessary to stress the relationship between income 
and adequacy of nutrition. It is, indeed, obvious that the greatest 
single cause of defective nutrition in any community is poverty 
and the ignorance which is often associated with poverty. 
Elsewhere in this report, emphasis is laid on the importance 
of disseminating knowledge as to the principles of rational 
nutrition, and promoting the improvement in dietary practice 
by educational methods and by public propaganda. But such 
advice might well seem somewhat ironical if recognition were 
not first accorded to the fact that defective nutrition is, in the 
great majority of cases, a consequence of inadequate family 
resources. The examination of family budgets giving records 
of household expenditure for sections of the community at 
different levels of income demonstrates conclusively that a 
rise in income is accompanied by improvement in diet, and 
particularly in the direction of a balanced and more rational 
diet. 

It must, however, be borne in mind that the protective 
foods, the generous supply of which is essential, are relatively 
costly. It is thus clear that the improvement of nutrition is 
associated with the maintenance and improvement of the general 
level of income. Even without effecting any changes in the 
level of national income or in its distribution, however, some 
measure of improvement in the standard of nutrition may be 
attained by better organisation of supplies, by education and 
by other methods. 

In recent years, the standard of living in large areas of 
the world has been reduced owing to the effect on income of 
the economic depression and owing, further, to the restrictions 
on the international movement of goods which have been 



- 7 8- 

imposed during the years of depression. To restrict the power 
of any people to obtain their foodstuffs at the lowest prices 
compatible with the maintenance of agricultural supplies must 
of necessity adversely affect that people's nutrition. The two 
first essentials of a sound economic policy directed towards 
improved nutrition are the absence of the restrictions on the 
supply of foodstuffs that tend to raise prices and provision 
against avoidable fluctuations in the availability of supplies. 

To each individual, however, the availability of supply 
is a function at once of the physical production of foodstuffs 
and of his own income. A sudden drop in the general price- 
level is likely to reduce incomes. In consequence, policy must 
be directed at once towards stability of general prices (so long 
as the prices in any country are not clearly out of reasonable 
relationship with those in the rest of the world) and adequate 
food supply. The price at which food is obtainable in any 
modern community is dependent upon international influences, 
as well as upon the productivity of domestic agriculture. It is 
therefore necessary to examine both these aspects in any enquiry 
directed to ascertain how the intervention of public authorities 
can most effectively operate to bring about improvement in 
nutritional standards. 

The dislocation of international trade which resulted from the 
crisis fell with exceptional severity upon agricultural exporting 
countries. One of the outstanding features of the depression 
was the disproportionate fall in the prices of agricultural products, 
leading to a restriction of purchasing power in agricultural 
communities and, consequently, to a limitation of the intake 
of industrial products. In three years, the price of leading 
products in the world market fell from the 1929 level by more 
than 50%, a development which might at first blush appear an 
ideal one for securing an abundant food supply through 
international trade. But, in fact, many industrial communities 
were unable to purchase their necessary supplies of foodstuffs 
owing to their inability to sell their products to the impoverished 
agriculturists. Industrial workers fell into unemployment ; 
agricultural produce went into stocks, not into consumption. 

Again, in many countries, the excessive fall of the price of 
agricultural products forced Governments to adopt policies 



— 79 — 

intended to safeguard the interests of national agriculture. 
To this end, access to the national market was restricted by duties, 
prohibitions and quotas, reacting still more severely on the 
exporting countries and on world prices. Indeed, as the 
application of these measures has been intensified and extended, 
the very term " world prices " becomes misleading. There 
can only be world prices when there are world markets. But 
the world has been divided into a series of national markets 
largely isolated from one another and characterised in their 
isolation by widely different levels of food prices. In agricultural 
countries, those farmers whose production did not consist 
mainly of mixed crops for their personal consumption have 
suffered severely from their inability to sell their produce at 
remunerative prices and therefore to buy the necessities of life. 
In industrial countries, where agricultural prices have been 
kept above the levels ruling elsewhere in an endeavour to protect 
domestic agriculture, the town workers have suffered at once 
from unemployment, due to the loss of foreign trade, and from 
the relative dearness of foodstuffs. 

It is not the intention of the Committee to enter into any 
criticism of commercial or agricultural policies. Conditions 
since 1929 have been exceptional, and the difficulties with which 
Governments have found themselves faced have been very 
real. The Committee desires, however, to draw attention to 
certain of the effects of these policies upon national nutrition. 
Unfortunately, the impediments imposed upon the international 
movements of foodstuffs have had seriously adverse effects 
on nutrition, even where the aggregate food consumed has not 
diminished. Sound nutrition demands a mixed diet. When 
prices of staple foodstuffs are high or when incomes are low, 
the consumer is forced to abandon the purchase of the more 
costly foods in favour of those which satisfy at the lowest price 
the immediate claims of his hunger. But it is exactly the 
foodstuffs which are in most countries relatively more expensive 
that constitute the group of protective foodstuffs. Again, 
few countries enjoy a climate or are so agriculturally organised 
that they are able to produce all the classes of foodstuffs 
requisite for sound nutrition. In many cases, restrictions have 
been imposed on the import of products which are expensive 



— 80 — 

to produce at home, with the result that the domestic consumer 
has been forced to forgo products that the most elementary- 
principles of sound nutrition demand he should enjoy. 

From the standpoint of national policy, it is thus necessary 
to emphasise the need for balancing the interests of the poorer 
consumers in matters of cheap and abundant food supply 
with the interests of producers. The facts as to the wide 
contrast between the prices in different countries for certain 
leading articles of food — for example, butter 1 — show that the 
existing situation is unsatisfactory from the standpoint of 
the consumer. 

Emphasis has been laid on these aspects of the depression 
and on the harmful effects of certain of the policies that have 
been adopted in recent years, because they are of immediate 
and, perhaps, to-day, of predominant importance. It must 
not be assumed, however, that malnutrition results from the 
depression. Amongst certain groups of population the depression 
has intensified the ill ; it has not caused it. Adequate nutrition 
cannot be assured by a policy directed exclusively towards 
countering the effects of the depression. The need for a 
constructive nutritional policy will not cease when the last 
signs of the depression have disappeared. 

The level of food prices must depend primarily on the operation 
of agricultural and trade policies. There are, however, other 
methods for alleviating the defects of nutrition caused by the 
reaction of food prices on consumption. There are, for example, 
various forms of direct action by which the State or public 
authorities can bring the supply of essential food products 
within the reach of the low-income and impoverised sections 
of the community. At the same time, there is a vast field for 
activity in the attempt to promote better market organisation 
and to bring producer and consumer into closer contact. 

As was stated at the beginning of this chapter, the main 
cause of malnutrition is poverty. Malnutrition can never be 



1 See "Workers' Nutrition and Social Policy", International Labour Office, 1936, pages 112 and 113 : 
" The ' world price ' of butter in the year 1934 was 1.72 Swiss francs per kilogramme. In Italy, the price 
was 3.03 Swiss francs ; in France, 3.55 Swiss francs ; in Germany, 3.79 Swiss francs ; and in 
Switzerland, 4.75 Swiss francs. The differences between these national prices and the world price of 1.72 
Swiss francs must be attributed to the effects of tariffs, quotas and other restrictions." 



— 8i — 

overcome when poverty is its principal cause, except by 
increasing the income of the poor. The income of the poor may 
be increased directly by an increase in national production, 
whether that results from the application of a sound economic 
policy or from increased knowledge of the art of production. 
It may be increased indirectly by public assistance, whether 
that be afforded in cash or in kind or in such a combination of 
these two as is constituted by rendering essential foodstuffs 
available to the poor at specially low prices. 

When public assistance is afforded in kind or by means of 
price privileges, it is of the greatest importance that it should 
be guided by sound nutritional precepts and that those foodstuffs 
should be selected of which the lack is the most real. 

The case of milk deserves special attention in this connection. 
Milk is of outstanding importance, not only because of its 
unique significance for the diet of children, but also because 
of its high protective value for general consumption. The 
supply of milk, moreover, is a matter which inevitably must 
engage the attention of public authorities and be submitted 
to careful control in order to establish a high standard of purity. 

The problem of the margin between the price received by the 
agricultural producer and the price paid by the housewife is 
one of long-standing prominence in connection with discussions 
on food supply. It has often attracted attention from 
Governments and been made the subject of official investigation, 
in the hope of suggesting remedies for the glaring anomalies 
that may often be discerned where the original and final price 
for a particular article of food are compared. l 

Governments have from time to time endeavoured to check 
an increase in retail prices by measures of direct control. 
Experience has gone to show that such direct control, to be 
effective at all, requires to be so far-reaching and intensive as 
to lead to what is tantamount to a monopoly of sale and 
distribution, and frequently to the rigid allocation of orders 
amongst the various producing units. Economies in organisation 
may be effected and overhead costs reduced ; but, on the other 



1 The question of price margin between the producer and the consumer was studied by the Economic. 
Committee of the League of Nations in 1930 and 1931 (see " The Agricultural Crisis", document C. 239. M. 105 
1931. II.B, Vol. II). 



— 82 — 

hand, there is a grave danger that the whole system of control 
may tend to raise rather than lower prices to the consumer, for 
the costs of the less efficient producers and distributors tend to 
become the standard for the whole market. Maximum costs tend 
to become standard costs and to determine the minimum 
prices. 

This whole problem of price control is an extremely complex 
one on which it would be as unwise to dogmatise as unsafe to 
generalise. But the evidence before the Committee seems to 
indicate that, as a general rule, measures designed to reduce costs, 
whether by lowering import duties, reorganising distribution or 
facilitating the adoption of improved methods of production, 
are more likely to achieve the desired object of reducing prices 
to the consumers without prejudice to the efficient producer or 
distributor than are measures of direct control or central price 
fixation. 

This is a question where detailed and patient investigation 
is essential if useful results are to be achieved. It is natural 
that, in a market for perishable goods where the supply is 
variable, the most efficient marketing system should occasionally 
break down owing to the undue concentration of supplies at 
a particular point or at a particular period. It is not with such 
abnormalities that this enquiry is principally concerned, but 
with the divergencies between wholesale and retail prices which 
are of a stable and normal character in markets for essential 
food supplies. There is a widespread belief that the cost of 
handling, transport and distribution forms in many cases a 
disproportionate element in the final price. This is especially 
noticeable at a time when agricultural depression has reduced 
the wholesale price and the return to the producer is inadequate. 
In such circumstances, the problem cannot be lightly passed 
over and, in view of its outstanding importance to the interests 
of sound nutrition, it is desirable that continuous attention 
should be directed towards it. What is required is patient 
investigation which will build up the necessary volume of 
practical knowledge as to existing systems of marketing, from 
which it will be possible to deduce conclusions as to 
improvements and remedies for maladjustments in the existing 
system. In general, it will be found that there is a very large 



- 8 3 - 

field of action in which remedial measures may be applied, 
having for their object the creation of more adequate marketing 
facilities or the encouragement of more efficient marketing 
organisation. 

One important method of making food available at reduced 
prices is that of reducing the services provided by the distributor. 
This can be secured by charging special prices for sale across 
the counter for cash, thus eliminating the costs of credit trading, 
door-to-door delivery, etc. This allows the price of the commodity 
sold over the counter to be lowered much closer to its cost of 
production, and the people whose purchasing power is too low 
to afford purchase at full retail price can obtain the commodity 
at a substantially reduced cost. 1 

Again, in countries where standards of reference for grading 
foodstuffs according to quality have been developed by 
Government agencies, certain foods, graded by men trained 
and supervised by the Government, are sold with labels phrased 
in terms of the specifications with which they have been graded. 
The practice has possibilities : on the one hand, for promoting 
efficiency in the marketing of farm products, and, on the other, 
for effecting economies in consumer purchasing which would not 
otherwise be possible. 2 

Finally, reference must be made to the influence, in this field 
of action, exercised by producers' and consumers' co-operatives. 
These organisations, in many countries, achieve a considerable 
measure of success in their endeavours to reduce the cost of 
goods to the consumer. 3 



1 In Northern Ireland, for example, a scheme such as this is in existence for the sale of milk. By this means, 
after a certain hour, milk is made available at less than half the normal price charged when delivered. 

See also in Volume III, chapter V (United Kingdom), the account of an experiment conducted at Bishop 
Auckland by the Potato Marketing Board. 

2 In Canada, grading of fresh and canned fruits and vegetables according to Government standards has been 
very successful in decreasing distribution costs, and in making possible consumer education as to the cheapest 
way of buying an adequate diet. In the United States, Government standards have recently been established 
for grading meat, butter, eggs, potatoes, a few other vegetables and some fruits. 

3 See, for example, Volume III, Chapter V, under France, Italy, etc. 



Chapter V. 

NUTRITION AND AGRICULTURE. 



i. Malnutrition among Agricultural Populations. 

In considering the relationship of the problem of nutrition 
to agriculture and the implications that the new teaching on 
the subject may have for the agriculturist, it is necessary to 
bear in mind that, in the world as a whole, the agricultural 
producers are at the same time the main consumers of foodstuffs. 
Even in European and other countries with what is termed a 
Western civilisation, agriculturists constitute a large and 
important section of the total community — in many cases 
exceeding one-half of the whole population. 

The prosperity of the farmers, peasants and agricultural 
workers is therefore an essential element in any policy directed 
towards improved nutrition. 

Further, countries exporting agricultural produce and the 
agricultural elements in other countries constitute one of the 
main markets for industrial products. Depression in agriculture 
is reflected in unemployment in industry. Nutritional stan- 
dards, therefore, will not be improved, but worsened, by 
policies which fail to maintain sound economic conditions 
in agriculture. 

Before approaching the question of the possible repercussions 
of changes in popular nutrition on the interests of agricultural 
producers, therefore, it is well to remind ourselves that those 
who live by farming are not necessarily immune from the risks of 
malnutrition. The old saying, " Peasants have always enough 
to eat ", is belied by the almost tragic situation of large masses of 
the rural population, particularly in Eastern Europe, living 
on land which either can only supply them with food during 
part of the year, or produce crops intended, not for personal 
consumption, but for sale. Such agriculturists have always 
been obliged to purchase elsewhere the additional food they 



- 85 - 

require. They were able to do so as long as the proceeds from 
their sales or the income from their minor industries remained at 
a reasonable level. 

The distress among agricultural populations has, of course, 
been greatly intensified as the result of the crisis ; and this is 
true of communities in relatively rich countries no less than in 
the relatively poor. To-day the situation is such that bare 
nourishment — not to speak of rational nourishment — is often 
problematical ; and this state of affairs has lasted for several 
years, with disquieting results to general health and 
particularly to the health and growth of children. 

By way of example, reference may be made to countries 
so widely different as Yugoslavia and the United States of 
America. 

Yugoslavia contains certain regions which are able not only to 
supply themselves with vegetable products but even to engage 
in export ; other regions, however, do not produce sufficient food 
(particularly wheat), and the people secure a bare living by 
breeding nondescript live-stock or growing miscellaneous 
products for export, such as tobacco, wine, wood, medicinal 
herbs, etc. The population of these latter regions, called 
" passive " from the point of view of nutrition, lives for the 
most part in a state of under-nutrition on account of its feeble 
purchasing power resulting from the fall in the value of its 
exports. 

This state of affairs has for long been in existence and formerly 
the population resorted to emigration as a remedy. The 
emigrants helped their families by sending them money from 
abroad. These contributions amounted until 1929 to about 
one thousand million dinars per annum, most of this money 
being sent to the poorer regions. Contributions from abroad 
have since fallen to about 120 million dinars per annum. This 
fact, coupled with the impossibility of emigrating, has caused 
great hardship in these areas, particularly from the point of 
view of nutrition. 1 

Turning to the sharply contrasted circumstances of a country 
such as the United States of America, we find a situation, as 



1 For a fuller account see Vol. Ill, page 63. 



— 86 — 

described by the Federal Emergency Relief Administration, 
in some degree analogous to the foregoing : 

"The relief situation as shown by a sample study of nine 
major agricultural areas in February 1935 presents striking 
differences among the areas and reflects clearly the severity 
of conditions existing either temporarily or permanently in 
these areas. Effects of the drought are particularly noticeable 
in certain sections and a permanent condition such as exists 
in the Lake States cut-over 1 area has forced on the relief rolls 
almost 40% of the rural families in that area. This study also 
brings out the unfavourable position of non-farm families as 
compared with farm families ; the unfavourable status of the 
tenant and share-cropper groups as compared to the owner- 
operator group is also disclosed. 

" Out of 5,200,000 households (cases) receiving emergency 
relief under the general relief programme in February 1935, 
it is estimated that there were about 1,900,000, or 36%, located 
in rural areas, and 188,000, or 4%, in small towns of 2,500 to 
5,000 population." 2 

The state of privation thus depicted is due in large measure 
to the catastrophic fall in agricultural prices ; and this in turn 
has been an obstacle which still bars the way to the return to 
a normal condition of international trade. The agricultural 
crisis is intimately linked with the international commercial 
crisis, and the essential basis for the restoration of the purchasing 
power of the farming community is to be sought in increased 
demand and a rising level of prices. 

In the face of this general depression, which so seriously 
affected the agricultural community, Governments almost 
throughout the world adopted special measures in the endeavour 
to protect the agriculturist from the effects of the slump in 
prices and the growth in the burden of debt due to that slump. 
Certain of the measures adopted have, unfortunately, by 
blocking the channels of trade, increased the ills it was intended 
to avert or to cure. 



1 Deforested. 

2 Monthly Report of the Federal Emergency Relief Administration for July 1935, page 31. 



- 8 7 - 

2. Improved Nutrition and Agricultural Production. 

Attention has been concentrated chiefly on the question 
of the surplus productive capacity which at present encumbers 
the activities of certain branches of agriculture in many 
countries and of the surpluses which are at present choking 
the market in certain products. This situation presents, 
undeniably, a problem of great immediate importance. 
But the utilisation or reduction of such temporary gluts as 
may exist at the present moment by no means exhausts 
the potential importance for agriculture of a dissemination 
of better dietary habits. While the problem of surpluses, in 
itself closely linked up with under-consumption, * is of a more 
or less casual nature, the position is quite different as regards 
the deep and permanent effects which dietary changes, as 
conceived by scientists, may have on the actual structure of 
agriculture, more especially in all the countries where the 
economic system offers the features usually met with in 
Western-European countries. 

The Mixed Committee has received overwhelming evidence 
that there is ample scope, even in Western Europe and the United 
States of America, for a great increase in the consumption of 
many forms of food, while in the world as a whole there is need 
for the increased consumption of all foods. This evidence is 
fully supported by the information contained in the report of the 
International Labour Office. 2 There can, therefore, be no doubt 
that the real interest of nations demands, not a restriction of 
agricultural production, but the discovery of means whereby 
the real needs of each community for the health-giving foods 
may be correlated to the undoubted power of agriculture to 
produce all that is necessary for abundant health. 



1 " These expressions (over-production and under-consumption) which have been so loosely used in speaking 
of the economic depression obviously correspond to purely relative notions. The fact that to-day, in the 
countries of Europe as a whole, more meat or more butter is produced than was being produced before the 
war does not prove that this increased production could not be absorbed if the mass of the population, which 
has also increased, found itself in a normal economic situation. One need only think of the millions of people 
who are unemployed or under-fed to realise that the disparity between supply and demand must to a large 
extent be attributed to the falling-off in the number of persons possessing the wherewithal to purchase the 
commodities in question at the high prices kept up by the protectionist system. " (See " Considerations on 
the Present Evolution of Agricultural Protectionism ", document C.178.M.97.1935.II.B.) 
2 " Workers' Nutrition and Social Policy ", International Labour Office, 1936. 



— 88 — 

The Committee, in this interim report, is not attempting to 
put forward any general solution of either national or world 
agricultural problems. More information is required before 
that can be attempted. Nevertheless, the effects upon agriculture 
that would follow from the adoption by many countries of 
sound national nutritional policies would be so considerable 
that the Mixed Committee has felt it desirable to indicate 
certain of those effects now, if only by way of illustration. 

Hygienists have come to the conclusion that, if, particularly 
in countries with Western civilisation, there is to be the necessary 
physical strength and health, it is essential that all classes of 
the population, and primarily children and young people, should 
be able to consume regularly certain quantities of " protective 
foods ". Fresh milk and fresh vegetables are nearly always 
produced and sold on the spot or within a comparatively 
limited area, and the same may be said of many fruits and of 
a great deal of dairy products, eggs and fresh meat. It follows 
from this fact that an increased demand for such produce 
would probably be met in the main by the output of national 
agriculture, and that, on the other hand, countries would 
probably resort to a greater extent to international and, more 
particularly, inter-continental trade to satisfy the demand for 
certain other products, such as cereals, sugar and frozen or 
chilled meat. 

Moreover, it is a striking fact that an increased output 
precisely of the protective foods just referred to would fit in 
admirably with the typical agricultural structure of European 
countries with a mixed economic system 1 where the rural 
population consists mainly of small landed proprietors and 
small farmers. Such conditions are hardly favourable to the 
large-scale production of single crops (wheat, maize, etc.), 
which is better suited to the conditions in countries in the 
Eastern belt and oversea countries ; they are, on the other 



1 " Nor must it be forgotten that the agricultural system of the older countries already existed, practically 
in its present distribution, at a time when the world movement of agricultural products was non-existent and 
when, consequently, the particular development of that agriculture corresponded to essentially local 
requirements. The peasant class in those countries still retains this former character, as regards both 
distribution and manner of living — a fact which places it in a position of relative inferiority in relation to 
oversea countries and often even in relation to certain Eastern-European countries, especially for big-scale 
production." (See " Considerations on the Present Evolution of Agricultural Protectionism ", document 
C.I78.M.97.I935-II.B.) 



-89- 

hand, very favourable to small-scale production such as is 
needed to meet the varied requirements of modern nutritional 
hygiene. 

It is therefore probable that, if the dietary advocated by 
hygienists could be extended to the bulk of the population, 
local agriculture in those countries would be called upon to 
supply much larger quantities of protective foods. It would 
be very useful if it were found possible to estimate the extent 
of the changes which such an evolution might bring about in 
the various categories of agricultural production in particular 
countries and consequently in the areas which would in future 
be devoted to different crops. Much additional information 
is, however, needed before such calculations can be made. 
To mention only one obstacle, the " optimum " dietary is 
at present only expressed as a scientific formula. The general 
rules of nutrition have not yet been translated into national 
or local dietaries, and, even if they were, it would still be a 
moot point to what extent the new requirements would be 
met by national agriculture and to what extent by importation. 
This must depend on climate, soil, degree of agricultural 
specialisation, etc. The Mixed Committee hopes to go further 
into this question in its next report. It may at once be asserted, 
however, that an increased demand for protective foods would 
be calculated to introduce into agriculture, particularly in 
countries of the Western-European type, changes which would 
add to the prosperity of the agricultural community. 



3. Can Agricultural Practice be adapted to meet the 
New Requirements of Better Nutrition ? 

The question next arises whether the agricultural 
transformation considered above can be brought about, and 
especially whether it can be brought about at a rate 
corresponding to the contemplated changes in dietary practice. 
In other words, is agriculture, and more particularly the 
agriculture of Europe, in a position to respond to an increasing 
demand for protective foods ? Fortunately, the Committee 
finds itself able to reply to this question in a very positive way. 



— 9 o — 

Although the application of science to agriculture occurred 
later than to manufacturing industry, the effects have been 
cumulative. It would be difficult to say which branches of 
science have had the greatest effect upon agricultural 
production. Advances in agricultural engineering have reduced 
costs through mechanisation, increased knowledge of the nature 
of soils has made fertilisation more effective, the art of animal 
breeding is being fortified by the science of genetics. Perhaps 
the most spectacular advance, however, is due to the work 
of the plant-breeder. Owing to the patient endeavours of many 
workers in many lands, new varieties of economic plants are 
constantly being evolved. As a result, higher-yielding strains, 
resistant to plant diseases, are replacing other types of wheat, 
maize, sugar-cane or beet, root crops, fruit trees, or vegetables. 

The work of Dutch plant-breeders in Java resulted in doubling 
the yield of sugar-cane per acre, with the result that the island's 
production was increased by 100% without any increase in the 
area devoted to sugar. 

New varieties of early-maturing wheat have enlarged the 
wheat belts of Canada by enabling the crop to be harvested 
further and further north ; at the same time, drought-resistant 
types have made wheat-growing possible in the drier parts 
of the Middle West of the United States of America, Russia 
and Australia. 

The achievements of the plant-breeder on grasses and fodder 
crops are even more important so far as the supplies of 
protective foods are concerned. The selection and crossing 
of grasses, clovers, lucernes and other fodder crops are 
continually making possible the increase in the number of 
cattle or sheep carried on farms. Thus, in New Zealand, over 
the last three years, production of butter and meat has increased 
enormously without any material extension of the acreage on 
which the flocks and herds are depastured. 

Farmers are conservative people, and the lag between scientific 
discovery and the full utilisation of the resultant improvements in 
agriculture may often be as long as one or two decades; but, 
with the spread of agricultural education, increased production 
now follows new discoveries with increasing rapidity. There 



— 91 — 

is certainly now no doubt that world agriculture can respond 
to increases in world demand for food as rapidly and as fully 
as there is any prospect of that demand arising. 

While this is certainly true of world agriculture, can the same 
be claimed of the national agriculture of the various countries ? 
Here the answer must be somewhat different. In almost every 
country there are possibilities of great further increases in the 
yield of crops, of pastures and from farm animals. Where 
farming has been carried on in an intensive way with a wide 
utilisation of scientific discoveries, the possibilities of further 
spectacular advances are less striking than where agricultural 
methods have been extensive rather than intensive or have 
remained traditional ; but, even in Denmark or New Zealand, 
there is still room for higher efficiency, while in most countries 
it would be no exaggeration to claim that the full utilisation 
of the already fully ascertained results of science could immensely 
increase production. 

One most important economic aspect of the improvements 
in plant and animal breeding must not be overlooked — namely, 
the effects upon cost of production. Experience has shown that 
better yielding and more resistant types cost no more to grow 
and harvest or tend than the poorer varieties. General speaking, 
marked reductions in agricultural costs follow from the utilisation 
of the breeder's work. 

All national agricultures can therefore be expected to respond 
to increased demand by increased production, but it is not 
necessary to envisage that countries must obtain the whole 
of their requirements from their own soil. Indeed, if the 
nutritional campaign is to achieve its full effects on public 
health and to assist towards a revival of world trade, then a 
most important factor must be that Governments should 
exercise a wise discrimination in regard to the types of farming 
they will encourage in their own countries. 

Here we find a task which Governments might well refer to 
their National Nutritional Councils. 

The Councils might survey the national food consumption, 
compare this with the levels of consumption which science has 
demonstrated to be necessary for health, consider how far the 
national agriculture can be relied upon to make up the 



— 9 2 — 

deficiencies at reasonable cost, and how far it would suit the 
general national economy to rely upon importation. 

The Committee thus foresees a gradual reorientation taking 
place in the agriculture of the industrial countries. With the 
growth of demand for the protective foods, farmers will produce 
more milk, more vegetables, more eggs and will become less 
concerned over the price of wheat or of sugar. 

The outlook is one which Governments will welcome; for a 
state of affairs is foreseen in which national agriculture will 
be fully maintained or, indeed, increased, while there will be 
room for increased importation and hence for the export of 
manufactures. Apart from this general reorientation of 
agricultural policy and practice, the Committee considers that 
there is room for special arrangements between organised 
producers in different countries based on the seasonal differences 
in periods of production. A northern country could arrange 
to obtain supplies of vegetables from a southern one during 
early spring and herself become the exporter at a later part of 
the season. 

The Committee attaches the utmost importance to this whole 
question of the organisation of national and world agriculture 
to meet the national and world needs for adequate supplies of 
food at reasonable prices and proposes to study the whole subject 
more fully in order to place more information before theAssembly 
in its next report. 



4. The Effects of Agricultural Adaptation 
on the Economics of Farming. 

There can be little doubt that the progress of science and its 
technical application makes it possible to modify agricultural 
practice and to increase the output of particular products. The 
question remains, however, whether this adaptation will not 
necessitate important economic and financial adjustments. 
This aspect of the problem merits the most careful study 
by the countries concerned ; meanwhile, it is difficult to 
reach a general conclusion, having regard to the very different 
conditions which are found in different countries. It can, 



— 93 — 

however, be said that expert opinion unanimously holds that 
fairly wide possibilities of substitution exist in most European 
countries, specially adapted for the production of the foodstuffs 
in which we are interested, and that such substitution would not 
have a harmful and disturbing effect provided, of course, that 
it were carried out gradually, by a natural process, 
contemporaneously with the changed demands of consumers. 

It must, nevertheless, be realised that farmers in many 
countries, but especially in those with limited financial resources, 
will be handicapped in their endeavours to adjust their 
production to changes in demand owing to the lack of capital. 

In almost every country in the world, the return on capital 
invested in agriculture is too low to attract sufficient money 
to enable the farmer to make adequate use of scientific 
improvements. The recognition of this state of affairs led to 
both the League of Nations and the International Institute of 
Agriculture studying the question of agricultural credit, and 
the question of the foundation of an international agricultural 
credit bank has been considered by the League of Nations. 

The Committee has not been able as yet to study how far 
the factor of inadequate capital may handicap farmers in 
carrying out their part in the nutritional campaign, but it 
proposes to obtain information on this aspect and hopes to present 
its conclusions in its next report. 

Closely allied to this question of agricultural credit is the 
possibility that producers' co-operative organisations might play 
a useful part in facilitating the reorientation of production 
towards the protective foods through the financial assistance 
they afford to farmers. This question, too, the Committee hopes 
to be able to study more closely. 

Further, to the extent that foods of animal origin, such as 
eggs, meat and dairy produce, took the place of other 
production, there would be a fresh demand for vegetable produce 
for use as seed or fodder, over and above that intended for 
direct human consumption. Thus, a human diet involving a 
larger proportion of foods of animal origin would entail a wider 
demand for the produce of the soil, a demand which, as it could 
and probably would have to be met by the products of 
agricultural exporting countries, might tend to improve the 



— 94 — 

situation of those countries and to improve international trade 
in certain agricultural products. 

The question might be asked whether a shift of consumption 
in the direction of protective foods might not be detrimental 
to the production of cereals and other energy-producing foods 
which, as should not be forgotten, have for centuries constituted, 
and still constitute, the basic dietary of populations of the 
Mediterranean type. 

From the purely economic standpoint, the reply might be 
given that, if a change of production is the result of a spontaneous 
development in taste and if it is not thwarted by an agricultural 
policy opposed to such a development, the change from one 
form of production to another will be made only in so far as the 
farmer finds it to his interest to do so. x 

From the standpoint, again, of a country's food supplies, 
it is perfectly well known that there need never be any difficulty 
in meeting through world trade a demand for cereals which 
is not fully covered by national agriculture. This would have 
the advantage, first, of promoting trade between the various 
countries and continents, and, secondly, 2 of maintaining the 
efficacy of such a reasonable system of Customs protection as 
the European countries would probably think it necessary 
to maintain. 



1 The transformation which occurred in Denmark, from a country still exporting cereals in 1880 into a 
country with a large export trade in milk products and meat, is an example which merits careful examination. 
This transformation has made necessary a great increase in the supply of feeding-stuffs for cattle, a demand 
which has been met by an ever-increasing importation of cereals and oil-cake accompanied by a marked 
intensification of domestic cultivation. 

The area devoted to cereals remains to-day, as in 1880, 41% to 42% of the agricultural area ; but the area 
under root crops has risen from less than y 2 % to 14% of the agricultural area, while the area under fallow 
has almost disappeared. The importance of the land under green crops — clover and grass — in the crop- 
rotation system reached its maximum at the end of the nineteenth century. To-day, these areas do not form 
more than 22% of the agricultural area. Since the war, the cultivation of permanent grass crops has been 
developed on land not coming within the area of crop rotation. 

The yield of all crops, reckoned in crop-units, increased between 1880-1884 and 1929-1933 by 163%, a 
development greatly accelerated in the last ten years. The yield of crops other than cereals has risen in these 
fifty years by 240%, though this has not prevented an increase in cereal crops of 70%. 

The exportation of agricultural products has developed as follows : 

Condensed milk 
Butter and cream Bacon Eggs 

(Millions of kilos) (millions) 

1881-1885 14 8 60 

1931 172 19 376 980 

2 " . . . agricultural protection far more than industrial protection must be moderate if it is to be really 
effective." (See "Considerations on the Present Evolution of Agricultural Protectionism", document 
C.178. M.97.I935-H.B.) 



— 95 — 

To the extent that demand tends to be transferred from 
energy-producing foods to protective foods, the prices of these 
two categories will not fail to adjust themselves in the same 
proportion. This adaptation will, in itself, act as an effective 
regulator of production. 

In conclusion, there are good reasons for believing that the 
trend of dietary habits, particularly in countries with a Western 
civilisation, towards a larger consumption of protective foods 
would coincide with a parallel evolution of agricultural 
production, which would in all probability benefit the rural 
populations of the various countries, and might also greatly 
contribute to a resumption of normal economic relations between 
the nations. 



Chapter VI. 

PRELIMINARY RECOMMENDATIONS. 



The Mixed Committee, as the previous chapters show, has 
directed its attention during the past year, in the main, to one 
part of its terms of reference — namely, Nutrition in Relation 
to Public Health. Its observations about the economic and 
agricultural aspects are of necessity preliminary. On the 
other hand, the Committee attaches great importance tot he 
beneficial effects upon agriculture and trade which this movement 
may have. It proposes to go more fully into this side of the 
question in a later report. 

Abundant evidence has been laid before the Committee 
to show that improved nutrition can bring about notable 
advances in human well-being, and, secondly, that the peoples 
of many countries, in so far as their financial circumstances 
permit, are tending to adopt more rational diets, with consequent 
beneficial effects. If, however, this welcome trend towards 
better nutrition is left without public guidance and assistance, 
many years must elapse before the mass of the people of any 
nation derive full benefit from the discoveries of science. 
Happily, it is within the power of Governments to accelerate 
this movement and thus to secure for the rising generation the 
physical benefits to which it is entitled. Public expenditure to 
this end might well be regarded as a premium paid on behalf of 
the whole community with every prospect of recouping the sums 
spent, not only directly in savings on medical services and 
assistance of many kinds, but by increasing the national assets 
by securing a healthier and more vigorous people capable of 
happier lives and increased productivity. 

No one studying the ample documentation summarised 
in Volume III of the present report can fail to be struck by 
the interest already aroused in numerous countries by questions 
relating to nutrition. In submitting its report and 
recommendations, the Mixed Committee has been inspired 



— 97 — 

by the desire to maintain and foster this interest, to make it 
universal and to stimulate the movement for better nutrition 
through international action. 



RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE MIXED COMMITTEE ON THE PROBLEM 

OF NUTRITION. 

The Mixed Committee, while recognising the importance of the economic aspects 
of the nutrition problem, the fuller treatment of which it desires to reserve for 
a later report, submits to the Assembly the following preliminary recommendations, 
in the hope that, if they are approved by the Assembly and accepted by Governments, 
they will make a real contribution to the improvement of nutrition. 

In order to promote endeavours to secure an adequate provision for all their 
people of necessary and, more especially, of protective foods, the Mixed Committee 
suggests to the Assembly to recommend that Governments should : 

(1) Encourage and support in every possible way the further scientific study 
of nutrition problems with a view to ascertaining the optimum nutrition for each 
country, due consideration being given to differences of national economic 
structure, of climate and of available sources of supply ; 

(2) Take all appropriate measures to ensure that the latest information abont 
nutrition is included in the teaching of medical students and that medical 
practitioners, medical officers of health, district nurses, etc., have such information 
constantly brought to their notice ; 

(3) Conduct a vigorous policy of education on popular nutrition for the 
instruction of the general public in this subject ; 

(4) Support the Health Organisation of the League of Nations, not only in 
the work of its technical committees, but also in its endeavours in the field of 
public health and preventive medicine to promote the application of modern 
nutritional science for the benefit of the different age and occupational groups of 
the population ; 

(5) Facilitate and promote international co-operation in education and 
propaganda and in the exchange of information, and, in particular, encourage 
all appropriate international organisations to lend their help ; 

(6) Consider what steps should be taken, whether at the public charge or 
otherwise, to meet the nutritional needs of the lower-income sections of the 
community, and, in particular, the means by which they might ensure that adequate 
supply of food, especially safe milk, should be made available for expectant and 
nursing mothers, infants, children and adolescents ; 

(7) Consider what further steps might be taken to meet the nutritional needs 
of adults, unemployed or otherwise in distress. 

(8) With a view to giving the fullest possible effect to national propaganda and 
educational efforts for the improvement of popular nutrition : 



- 9 8 - 

Take all possible steps to make food supplies, and especially protective foods, 
so far as possible, available at prices within the reach of all classes of the 
community, while at the same time safeguarding the interests of the producers ; 

Take steps to improve and cheapen the marketing and distribution of 
foodstuffs in both industrial and rural districts, and, with these objects in view : 

Encourage collaboration between co-operative and other forms of producers' 
and consumers' organisations; 

(9) With a view to assuring purity of food and in the interest of public health, 
promote, so far as possible, the international unification of the technical analysis 
and control of foodstuffs, and of the control of preparations sold primarily for 
their vitamin content on the basis of the work being conducted on standardisation 
of biological products ; 

(10) Set up standards of reference and specifications for grading foods of 
all kinds according to quality ; 

(11) Consider whether any modification of their general economic and 
commercial policy is desirable in order to ensure adequate supplies of foodstuffs, 
and, in particular, to assist the reorientation of agricultural production necessary 
to satisfy the requirements of sound nutrition ; 

(12) Co-ordinate the work done by different authorities which affects the 
nutrition of the people and, in the absence of a central authority, set up a special 
body for this purpose, in order to secure unity of policy and direction ; 

(13) In order, inter alia, to as certain how far existing national dietaries fall 
short of the new standards of nutrition, collect information on food consumption 
by families of different occupational groups at different income-levels as well as 
on the distribution of the population by family income ; 

(14) Consider to what extent and by what means their national statistics 
of the supply and consumption of individual foods might be improved ; 

(15) Assist the International Institute of Agriculture in collecting information 
regarding supply, national consumption and prices of foodstuffs. 

* * 

Furthermore, the Mixed Committee invites the Assembly to recommend the 
Governments concerned to give their full support to the Health Organisation in 
its enquiries into the widespread malnutrition which exists in the tropics and 
certain Far-Eastern countries. 






AUTHORISED AGENTS FOR THE PUBLICATIONS 

OF THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS 



RGENTINE 

Libreria " El Ateneo ", calle Florida, 
371, Buenos Aires. 

USTRALIA (Commonwealth of) 

H. A. Goddard, Ltd., 255a, George 
Street, Sydney. 

USTRIA 

Manz'sche Verlags- und Universi- 
tatsbuchhandlung, Kohlmarkt 20, 
Vienna I. 

2LGIUM 

Agence Dechenne, Messageries de 
la Presse, S.A., 16-22, rue du 
Persil, Brussels. 

KJVIA 

Arno Hermanos, Calle Illimani, Nos. 
10-20, La Paz. 

tAZIL 

;< Livraria Allema ", Frederico Will, 
rua da Alfandega, 69, Rio de 
Janeiro. 

JLGARIA 

Librairie Franchise et Etrangere, 
J. Carasso & Cie., Bd. " Tsar 
Osvoboditel ", No. 8, Sofia. 

JVADA 

League of Nations Society in Canada, 
124, Wellington Street, Ottawa. 

IILE 

Carlos Niemeyer, Libre 
Cas. 293, Valparaiso. 

[INA 
Commercial Press, Ltd., Sales Office, 
211, Honan Road, Shanghai. 

LOMBIA 

Libraria Voluntad S.A., calle Real, 
Nos. 297-301, Bogota, 

BA 

La Casa Belga, Ren6 de Smedt, 
O'Reilly, 59, Havana. 

ECHOSLOVAKIA 

Librairie F. Topic, n, Narodni, 
Prague. 



DANZIG (Free City of) 

Georg Stilke, Buchhandlung, Lang- 
gasse 27, Danzig. 

DENMARK 

Levin & Munksgaard, Publishers, 
Norregade 6, Copenhagen. 

ECUADOR 

Victor Janer, Guayaquil. 
EGYPT 

G.M.'s Book Shop, 116, Sharia Emad 

El Din (Opp. Davies Bryan), 

Cairo. 

ESTONIA 

Akadeemiline Kooperatiiv, Ulikooli 
Tan. 15. Tartus. 

FINLAND 

Akateeminen Kirjakauppa, Keskus- 
katu 2, Helsinki. 

FRANCE 

Editions A. Pedone, 13, rue Soufflot, 
Paris (V e ). 

GERMANY 

Carl Heymanns Verlag, Mauerstrasse 
44, Berlin, W.8. 

GREAT BRITAIN, NORTHERN IRELAND 
AND THE CROWN COLONIES 

George Allen & Unwin, Ltd., 40, 
Museum Street, London, W.C.i. 

GREECE 

" Eleftheroudakis ", Librairie inter- 
national, Place de la Constitution, 
Athens. 

GUATEMALA 

Goubaud & Cia., Ltda., Sucesor, 
Guatemala. 

HAITI 

Librairie-Papeterie Mme. D. Viard, 
angle des rues du Centre et des 
Casernes, Port-au-Prince. 

HUNGARY 

Librairie Grill, Dorottya utca 2, 
Budapest. 

ICELAND 

Peter Halldorsson, Reykjavik. 



■ 








INDIA 

The Book Company, Ltd., College 
Square, 4/4A, Calcutta. 

League of Nations (Indian Bureau), 
Improvement Trust Building, 
Esplanade Road, Bombay, I. 

IRISH FREE STATE 

Eason & Son, Ltd., 79-82, Middle 
Abbey Street, Dublin. 

ITALY 

S. A. Editrice G. C. Sansoni, Viale 
Mazzini 26, Florence. (114). 

JAPAN 

League of Nations Tokio Office, 

Marunouchi C.-13, Tokio. 
Maruzen Co., Ltd., (Maruzen- 

Kabushiki-Kaisha), 6, Nihonbashi 

Tori-Nichome, Tokio. 
Mitsukoshi Limited, Surugacho, 

Nihonbashi, Tokio. 

LATVIA 

Latvijas Telegrafa Agentura " Leta ", 
Kr. Barona iela, 4, Riga. 

LUXEMBURG (Grand-Duchy of) 

Librairie J. Schummer, Place Guil- 
laume, 5, Luxemburg. 

MEXICO 

Central de Publicaciones, S.A. (Antes 
Agenda Misrachi), Edificio " La 
Nacional ", Av. Juarez 4, Mexico, 
D.F. 

NETHERLANDS 

Martinus Nijhoff, Boekhandelaar- 
Uitgever, Lange Voorhout 9, The 

Hague. 

NETHERLANDS INDIES 

Algemeene Boekhandel G. Kolff & 
Co., Batavia-Weltevreden. 

NEW ZEALAND 

Messrs. Whitcombe & Tombs, Ltd., 
Booksellers, Christchurch. 
NORWAY 

Olaf Norli, Universitetsgaten, 24, 
Oslo. 

PANAMA 

Isidro A. Beluche, Apartado 755, 
Avenida Norte No. 49, Panama. 

PARAGUAY 

Libreria Inter nacional Santiago 
Puigbonet, Casilla de Correo 581, 
Asuncion. 



POLAND I 

Gebethner & Wolff, ulica Zgoda 1 
Warsaw. 

PORTUGAL 

J. Rodrigues & Cia., Rua Aur 
186-188, Lisbon. 

ROUMANIA 

" Cartea Romaneasca ", 3-5, Bo 
Regele Carol I, Bucharest, 

SOUTH AFRICA (Union of) 

Maskew Miller, Ltd., 29, Adderl 
Street, Cape Town. 

SPAIN 

Libreria Bosch, Ronda Universidf 
n, Barcelona. I 

Libreria Internacional de Ron 
Alcala, 5, Madrid. 

SWEDEN 

C, E. Fritze, Hofbokhandel, Fre 
gatan, 2, Stockholm. I 

SWITZERLAND 

Librairie Payot & Cie, Genei 
Lausanne, Vevey, Montrei 
Neuchatel, Berne and Basi 

Hans Raunhardt, Buchhanc 
Kirchgasse 17, Zurich, I. 

TURKEY 

Librairie Hachette, Succursah 
Turquie, 469, Av, de lTn 

Eendance, Boite postale 22 
STANBUL. 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

World Peace Foundation, 8, W 
40th Street, New York, N. 
and 40, Mt. Vernon Street, Bost< 

Mass. 

VENEZUELA 

Libreria Alejandro d'Empai 
Traposos a Col6n, 36, Aparta 
postal 274, Caracas. 

YUGOSLAVIA (Kingdom of) 

Librairie Geca Kon S.A., 12 1 

Knez Mihailova, Belgrade. 
Librairie de l'Universite et de l'A' 

demie Yougoslave, St. Kugli, Hi 

30, Zagreb. 
Knjigarna " Schwentner ", Pres 

nova ulica, Ljubljana. 



For other Countries, apply j 
PUBLICATIONS DEPARTMENT OF THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS 

GENEVA (Switzerland). 







University of Toronto 
Library 




Acme Library' Card Pocket 
LOWE-MARTIN CO. Limited 




1 




League of Nations 

The problem of nutrition. 
vol.2. Report on the physiologicaj 
bases of nutrition ... 1956. 



%A 




LEAGUE OF NATIONS 



THE PROBLEM OF NUTRITION 



VOLUME II 

REPORT ON THE 
PHYSIOLOGICAL BASES OF NUTRITION 

drawn up by the 

Technical Commission of the Health Committee 

at the meeting held in London (November 2^th~2gth, 1935), 

revised and amplified at the meeting held at Geneva 

(June 4th-8th, 1936) . 










LEAGUE OF NATIONS 



Publications dealing with the Problem of 

NUTRITION 



';ed she 



THE PROBLEM OF NUTRITION 



Interim Report of the Mixed Committee on the Problem 
of Nutrition. (Ser. L.o.N. P. 1936.II.B.3.) 

Vol. III. Nutrition in Various Countries. (Ser. L.o.N. P. 1936. 
II.B.5.) 

In preparatir 

Vol. IV. Statistics of Food Production, Consumption and Prices. 

Documentation prepared by the International Institute of 
Agriculture, presented to the Mixed Committee on the 
Problem of Nutrition, June 1936. 



Published previously 

Nutrition and Public Health, by Et. Burnet and W. R. 
Aykroyd. (Off-print No. 2 from the Quarterly Bulletin of 
the Health Organisation, Vol. IV, No. 2, June 1935.) 
152 pages. Price: 2/- $0.50 

Nutrition considered in relation to Public Health and to 
Economic Conditions. " League of Nations Questions ", 
No. 4. (Information Section Pamphlet.) 
24 pages. Price: 6d. $0.15 



LEAGUE OF NATIONS 

PUBLICATIONS DEPARTMENT 

GENEVA (Switzerland) 



L 



i 



[ ^hTcrcta d n^h h eM A e S X^f <**» N °' A. 12 (a). I93 6,I.B. 

the League.] 

Geneva, June 24th, 1936. 
LEAGUE OF NATIONS 

THE PROBLEM OF NUTRITION 



VOLUME II 



REPORT ON THE 
PHYSIOLOGICAL BASES OF NUTRITION 



drawn up by the 

Technical Commission of the Health Committee 

at the meeting held in London (November 2^th-2gth, 1933), 

revised and amplified at the meeting held at Geneva 

(June 4th-8th, 1936) . 



Series of League of Nations Publications 

II. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL 

1936. II. B. 4. 



INTRODUCTION 

For ten years, the Health Organisation of the League has been 
engaged in the study of nutrition in relation to public health. 
The following have been the main stages of the work: 

In 1925, upon the proposal of the Yugoslav delegation, the Assembly (sixth 
session) requested the Health Committee to study " the methods to be recommended 
in the interests of public health for the regulation of the manufacture and of the 
sale of food products." 

In October 1928, at the thirteenth session of the Health Committee, Professor 
Leon Bernard asked, on behalf of the French Government, for nutrition to be 
placed on the programme of work of the Committee. 

In 1926, the Health Section published a collection of memoranda on the physiology 
of nutrition and its applications by Professor T. Saiki, Director of the Imperial 
Institute of Nutrition of Tokyo, and his assistants (" Progress of the Science of 
Nutrition in Japan ", document C.H.523). 

In 1927, Professor T. Saiki, under the auspices of the Health Organisation, 
gave a series of lectures on nutrition in the United States of America, Argentine, 
Brazil and Chile. The same year, the Chief of the Department of Applied Science in 
the Institute of Tokyo came to study problems of nutrition in the United Kingdom 
with Professor Mellanby, and afterwards in different institutes and laboratories 
of Europe. 

In 1926-27, the Health Section arranged for the visit of the late Professor Egerton 
Grey of the University of Cairo to the Tokyo Institute, and published in 1928 his 
valuable report entitled " The Food of Japan " (document C.H.861). 

In 1 93 1, the Health Committee organised a collective tour to study the 
supply of milk in the United States. Two of the participants, Professor R. Burri 
and Dr. G. S. Wilson, summarised their observations in memoranda published in the 
Quarterly Bulletin of the Health Organisation, Vol. I, Nos. 1 and 4. At the same time, 
the hygiene of milk was studied by Professor J. Parisot in the Department of 
Meurthe-et-Moselle (Quarterly Bulletin, Vol. Ill, No. 4). 

In 1932, the Government of Chile requested the collaboration of the League of 
Nations in a study of popular nutrition in that country. The preliminary studies led 
to a double enquiry — economic and medical — which was begun in 1935. 

In October 1932, at its nineteenth session, the Health Committee decided to 
undertake the study of the effects of the economic crisis on public health, with 
particular reference to conditions of under-nutrition produced by the crisis. In 
the Quarterly Bulletin was published in 1933 a study by Dr. Mackenzie on the 
administrative machinery by which the nourishment of the poor is assured in the 
United Kingdom (Vol. II, No. 2) and a study by Dr. W. R. Aykroyd on " Diet 
in relation to Small Incomes " (Vol. II, Nos. 1 and 2). 

In 1932, two Conferences of Experts were convened in connection with the studies 
on nutrition. They did not only deal with the conditions brought about by the 
economic crisis, they also considered the fundamental data of the problem and dealt 
with the principles of an adequate diet. 

(a) The Conference of Experts at Rome (September 1932) considered the 
question of dietary standards and drew up a scale of family co-efficients for inter- 



S.d.N. 2080 (F.) 2250 (A.). 7/36. Imp. Kundig. 



— 4 — 

national use in order that the enquiries on the state of nutrition in various countries 
might be made comparable. 

(b) The Conference of Experts in Berlin in December 1932 considered the 
physical standards and the clinical and physiological methods best calculated to 
detect states of malnutrition. 

The reports of these two Conferences were published in the Quarterly Bulletin, 
Volume I, No. 3, and Volume II, No. 1. They may be considered precursors to 
the report of the London Conference which is published hereafter. 



In 1934, in view of this work and of all the documentation 
collected, the Health Committee, when drawing up its three- 
year programme of work, decided that a general report on 
nutrition should be made (see document C. 233. M. 97. 1934, page 12). 
The preparation of this report was entrusted to Dr. E. Burnet 
and Dr. W. R. Aykroyd, who carried out a series of enquiries 
in different countries (United Kingdom, France, United States, 
Denmark, Sweden, Norway, and the U.S.S.R.) on the special 
institutions of nutrition policies of these countries. This report was 
drawn up in the early part of 1935, and published in the Quarterly 
Bulletin (Vol. IV, No. 2, June 1935). 

This report, which was specially intended for health administra- 
tions, deals with the position of nutrition in public health and 
preventive medicine. 

Nutrition in relation to health is one of the most important aspects of preventive 
medicine, and the recent progress in the science of nutrition makes it essential 
for public health to develop along new lines. 

Nutrition is put forward, not only as a physiological problem, but also as an 
economic — agricultural, industrial and commercial — problem. 

Health workers are appealing to the economists for the realisation of their plans. 
Economists beginning to be guided by the lofty aims of preventive medicine. The 
time will soon be over when commercial agreements and Customs measures are 
applied without consideration for the requirements of the masses and of public health. 

The plan indicated by the table of contents at the beginning of the report appears 
at first sight to be somewhat complicated. In reality it is very simple and hinges 
upon three main questions: 

(1) What are the nutritional needs of the human being ? How can they be recognised ? 
How can it be determined whether they are being satisfied ? (Dietary 
standards and physical standards.) 

(2) What resources are available to meet nutritional requirements ? (Food available ; 
production; distribution; preservation.) 

One chapter emphasises the relationship between nutrition and economy, based 
on examples taken with respect to four fundamental foods of great importance; 
meat, milk, bread and fats. 

(3) How best to utilise the resources available in order to meet these requirements ; 



Nutrition has already been recognised as a means of protecting maternity and 
childhood, of controlling the deficiency diseases (rickets, dental caries, anaemia, 
pellagra, beri-beri) and of ensuring the regular development of the human being in 
its various surroundings; in the urban centres, rural districts, or the colonies. 

Certain countries, as, for example, the U.S.S.R., have already organised extensive 
public or collective nutrition, including preventive or curative diets. 

In order to formulate adequate diets, it is necessary first to consider the 
various nutritional types. 

It is no longer necessary to consider whether Governments should intervene in 
connection with nutrition because in point of fact such intervention has existed for a 
considerable time. The report gives examples of organised nutrition. 

The report not only does not omit, but rather emphasises on each page, the 
economic conditions in relation to adequate nutrition. It concludes with this 
statement: " Production, distribution and consumption have hitherto been consi- 
dered mainly as economic problems without sufficient regard to their effect on 
public health, but the effect of the economic depression has directed attention to the 
gap which almost everywhere exists between dietary needs as determined by 
physiology and the means of satisfying them under existing conditions. The general 
problem of nutrition as it presents itself to-day is that of harmonising economic and 
public health development." 

In another part of the report (see Chapter on Nutrition and Poverty) , the authors 
have not overlooked the psychological aspect of the question. If salaries are, so to 
speak, the " iron law " in regard to nutrition, it is not sufficient to increase them 
in order to do away with all nutritional deficiencies which accompany poverty; 
it is also necessary (and not only amongst the poor) to develop education : education 
of medical men, of health workers, of mothers, and of the whole population from 
infancy upwards; the education of those engaged in teaching the public, and the 
education of the public itself. 

The report by Drs. Burnet and Aykroyd was published at a 
time when the social problems of housing and nutrition were 
definitely occupying the foremost position in pubhc health. Con- 
tinuing the work carried out by the Rome and Berlin Conferences, 
it thereby met the preoccupations arising out of the protracted 
economic depression. It contained the essential elements for a 
general discussion of the practical problems of nutrition in relation 
both to public health and to economic recovery. It was therefore 
natural that it should be used as a basis of discussion when the 
delegations of twelve Governments at the sixteenth Assembly of 
the League (September 1935) requested that nutrition should be 
placed on the agenda. 

The discussion in the Second Committee of the Assembly was introduced by 
Mr. Bruce (Australian delegate), who stressed the necessity for marrying agriculture 
and public health in the interests of the latter; of increasing the consumption of 
protective foods as a remedy for malnutrition and the agricultural crisis, and of 
changing the incidence of State protective subsidies so that they should serve 
to increase consumption rather than to restrict production. He pointed out the 



— 6 - 

necessity for reducing the wide gap between wholesale and retail prices and of 
reducing the costs of distribution. 

The following points emerged from the discussion: 

(0 An increase of production supplies the Governments with further means 
for improving public health; 

(**) This can be done by expanding the work that they have already begun 
in the field of nutrition; 

(Hi) This constitutes a direct and practical means of attacking the problem 
of agricultural surpluses and the consequent fall in prices. 

On consideration of the report of Lord De La Warr (United 
Kingdom), the Assembly adopted the following resolution: 

" The Assembly, 

" Having considered the subject of nutrition in relation to public health and 
of the effects of improved nutrition on the consumption of agricultural products, 
urges Governments to examine the practical means of securing better nutrition 
and requests the Council: 

(i) To invite the Health Organisation of the League of Nations to 
continue and extend its work on nutrition in relation to public health; 

" (2) To instruct the technical organisations of the League of Nationsl 
in consultation with the International Labour Office and the Internationa, 
Institute of Agriculture, to collect, summarise and publish information on 
the measures taken in all countries for securing improved nutrition and, 

(3) To appoint a Committee, including agricultural, economic and health 
experts, instructed to submit a general report on the whole question, in its 
health and economic aspects, to the next Assembly, after taking into consi- 
deration, inter alia, the progress of the work carried out in accordance with 
paragraphs (1) and (2) above." 



* 
* * 



At the same time, the International Labour Office, which had 
been informed of the general plan of the Burnet-Aykroyd report, 
had given proof of its interest in the report. The Mixed Advisory 
Agricultural Committee (which ensures liaison between the 
International Labour Office and the International Agricultural 
Institute of Rome), the International Committee for Inter-co- 
operative Relations (which is a private organisation for liaison 
between agricultural and consumers' co-operatives, under the 
chairmanship of the Director of the International Labour Office), 
had expressed their desire to co-operate in studying the question of 
the nutrition of workers. When the nineteenth International Labour 
Conference was held in June 1935, its attention was drawn to the 
problems of nutrition in the report by the Director of the Inter- 
national Labour Office, and by statements by Sir Frederick 



— 7 — 

Stewart, Miss Paterson and Miss Grace Abbot (Government 
delegates of Australia, New Zealand and the United States of 
America. The following resolution was unanimously adopted: 

Seeing that nutrition adequate both in quantity and in quality is essential to 
the health and well-being of the workers and their families; 

" And seeing that, in various countries, evidence has been brought forward 
to show that large numbers of persons both in town and country are not sufficiently 
or suitably nourished : 

" Seeing, moreover, that an increase in the consumption of agricultural foodstuffs 
would help to raise standards of life and relieve the existing depression in agri- 
culture: 

" The Conference welcomes the attention drawn by the Director in his report 
to the problem of nutrition and requests the Governing Body to instruct the Office 
to continue its investigation of the problem, particularly in its social aspects, in 
collaboration with the Health and Economic Organisations of the League of Nations, 
the International Institute of Agriculture and other bodies capable of contributing 
to its solution, with a view to presenting a report on the subject to the 1936 session 
of the Conference." 



At its twenty-second session (October 1935), the Health Com- 
mittee considered the report by Drs. Burnet and Aykroyd and 
specifically discussed the hygienic aspects of the problem. It was 
decided that members of the Committee should forward and 
recommend the report to their national administrations. After 
having stressed the necessity for educating medical practitioners, 
public health workers and the public in the field of nutrition, the 
Health Committee adopted the following resolution: 

" The Health Committee, 

" Being of opinion that these studies may be a useful contribution to public 
health progress, and would be the logical development of its former activities in 
this field: 

" Requests the Bureau to constitute an expert committee of twelve members 
at most, with the following terms of office: 

" (1) To consider the suggestions contained in the Health Organisation's 
report, or formulated when this report was examined by the Health Committee 
and during the Assembly discussions on the matter (document A. 61.1935); 

" (2) To select such questions of practical importance as might usefully 
be studied internationally and to classify them by order of priority; 

" (3) To submit a first report to the Co-ordination Committee set up in 
accordance with the third paragraph of the Assembly resolution of September 
25th, 1935. This report would be the basis for the work to be carried out in 
co-operation by the technical organisations and international institutions 
mentioned in the above resolution." 



— 8 — 

In accordance with this resolution, a list of questions for inves- 
tigation, arranged in order of priority, was drawn up on the basis 
of the report for submission to the Technical Commission. 

The discussions of the Assembly and of the Health Committee 
made it appeal that health experts were to be asked to take the 
first step by defining the nutritional needs of the human being 
in the course of its development from conception to the adult age 
— i.e., the physiological basis for adequate nutrition. It would 
then be the duty of the Health Organisation and of the other 
technical organisations, to consider the appropriate means for 
their practical application. 



The Technical Commission appointed by the Health Committee 
is composed as follows: 

A ustria. 

Professor A. Durig, Professor of Physiology at Vienna University. 

United Kingdom. 

Professor E. P. Cathcart, Professor of Physiology, Glasgow University; 
Professor E. Mellanby, Secretary-General of the Medical Research Council. 

Professor of Physiology at the Royal Institution, London ; 
Sir John Boyd Orr, Director of the Imperial Bureau of Animal Nutrition, 

Rowett Institute, Aberdeen. 

France. 

M. J. Alquier, Secretaire general de l'lnstitut scientifique d 'hygiene alimen- 
taire, Directeur de l'lnstitut national agronomique, Paris; 

Professor Andre Mayer, Professor of Physiological Chemistry at the College 
de France; 

Professor L. Lapicque, Professor of Physiology at the University of Paris, 
Faculte des sciences, Sorbonne, Paris. 

Italy . 

Professor Filippo Bottazzi, Member of the Royal Academy of Italy, Professor 
at the University of Naples. 

Scandinavian States. 

Professor A. Hojer, General Director of Health Services, Stockholm ; 
Professor C. Schiotz, Professor of Hygiene at the University of Oslo; 
Professor L. S. Fridericia, Professor of Hygiene at the University of 
Copenhagen. 



— q — 

Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 

Professor B. Sbarsky, Director of the Central Nutrition Institute, Moscow. 

United States of America. 

Professor E. V. McCollum, Professor of Biochemistry, Johns Hopkins Uni- 
versity, Baltimore; 

Dr. Mary Swartz Rose, Department of Nutrition, Columbia University, New 
York; 

Dr. W. Sebrell, Chief of the Department of Nutrition, National Institute of 
Hygiene, Washington, D.C. 

* 

* * 

Dr Harriette Chick, Lister Institute, London, Technical Secretary of the 
International Conference on the Standardisation of Vitamins, was invited 
to take part in the Commission's work. 



The Technical Commission held its first meeting in London 
from November 25th to 29th, 1935. Professor Edward Mellanby 
was elected Chairman. The outcome of its discussions was the report 
known as the London Report (C.H.1197, December 6th, 1935). 

As contemplated in the third paragraph of the Health 
Committee's resolution (mentioned on page 7), the report was 
communicated to the Mixed Committee for the Study of the 
Problem of Nutrition, appointed by the Council of the League 
(under the third paragraph of the Assembly resolution of 
September 25th, 1935, see above, page 6). 

At the first session of the Mixed Committee, Professor 
Mellanby and Professor McCollum, delegates of the Technical 
Commission of the Health Committee, commented on the report. 
As regards nutrition and public health, the report served as a 
basis for the discussions of the first two sessions of the Mixed Com- 
mittee (February 10th to 16th and June 4th to 7th, 1936) and for the 
chapter on " Nutrition and Public Health " in the preliminary 
report drawn up by the Mixed Committee for the next Assembly 
of the League of Nations. 

Furthermore, since the report will have to be applied in different 
countries and to be adapted to varying geographical, economic and 
social conditions, the Commission communicated it for study to 
representative learned societies and social studies institutions in 
different countries, with a view to procuring through them the 
advice of specialists and administrators interested in the various 



— 10 — 

aspects of nutrition — internal medicine, public health and social 
medicine, pediatrics, school hygiene, etc. 
These institutions are of three kinds: 

i. Academies of Medicine, Academies of Science and Scientific 
Commissions: 

Igium : Royal Academy of Medicine. 
United Kingdom : Medical Research Council. 

France : Academy of Medicine. 

Italy : National Research Council. 

Netherlands : Academy of Science. 

Spain : Madrid Academy of Medicine. 

U.S.S.R.: Scientific Research Council. 
United States 

of America: National Academy of Science. 

2. Commissions whose competence covers nutritional problems: 

United Kingdom : Advisory Committee on Nutrition, responsible to the 

Ministry of Health and the Secretary of State 
for Scotland. 

Denmark : Advisory Committee on Nutrition. 

Norway : Norwegian Committee on Nutrition. 

3. National Councils specially set up for the study of nutritional 
problems and for co-operation with the League of Nations: 

France : National Committee for the Study of the Problem of Nutrition. 
Sweden: Royal Committee on Nutrition. 

Some of these institutions have set up commissions and 
sub-commissions, each with its own rapporteur, and have divided 
the problems recommended for further study among them, according 
to the relative importance of such problems within the national 
sphere and to the work already undertaken by the Health Services 
and national laboratories. 

The report was also communicated to the health administrations 
of all countries, who were informed at the same time of the place and 
importance of the report in the general scheme of the work under- 
taken by the League of Nations to improve nutrition, as well as 
of the studies recommended to the national institutions. 

The report was submitted to the Health Committee (twenty-third 
session, April-May 1936) and to the Council (May 1936) of the 
League of Nations. In its report to the Council, the Health 
Committee expressed the opinion that the Mellanby Commission 



— II — 

should meet again to take note of the conditions in which the report 
could be applied in the different countries and to take the necessary 
steps to continue the studies. Among the new problems recom- 
mended for consideration, it mentioned the following as of special 
importance for the continuation of the studies: (a) assessment 
of the nutritional state particularly in children; (b) nutritive food 
requirements during the first year of life. It felt that these two 
questions should be examined by experts (school medical inspectors, 
pediatrists, etc.), and it requested the Director of the Health Section 
to arrange for a consultation on each of these points. 

Through information communicated in the academies and 
published in their bulletins, through direct contact with the various 
institutions mentioned and with many members of public health 
services, through numerous articles in medical reviews as well as 
in the general Press, the Commission has received much evidence of 
the importance universally attached to the London report and of 
the desire that the Commission's work should be pursued. The main 
idea underlying the report, the expression of the new science of 
nutrition, in regard to protective foods and supplementary energy- 
yielding foods, special requirements during maternity and growth, 
and the adoption, not of the indispensable minimum, but of the 
optimum diet as the standard now held to be necessary has met 
with general approval. 

The various reports contained observations either on certain 
details, or on matters of doctrine. The latter are as follows: 

(i) The basic caloric allowance: The 2,400 calories per day 
for adults not engaged in manual work with supplements 
reckoned per hour according to the type of work ; 

(2) The coefficients for calculating calories and proteins 
according to age and sex, particularly as regards maternity 
(pregnant and nursing women), infancy, growth; 

(3) Special requirements during puberty; 

(4) The question of official control of fish-liver oils and 
vitamin preparations. 

The observations communicated were examined at the Technical 
Commission's second session, held at Geneva from June 4th to 8th, 



— 12 — 

1936 under Professor Mellanby's chairmanship. The following 
attended (see pages 8 and 9): Professor E. P. Cathcart, Miss 
Harriette Chick, Professor L. S. Fridericia, Professor A. Hojer, 
Professor L. Lapicque, Professor Andre Mayer, Professor E. V. 
Mi (mi 1 i m, Sir John Boyd Orr, Professor B. Sbarsky, 
Dr. W. Sebrell and Dr. M. Svvartz Rose. 

While maintaining and confirming its fundamental principles, 
which were unanimously approved, the Commission examined 
all the observations most carefully. 

It believes that all were discussed and even answered. 
A certain number ceased to be relevant by reason of the 
Commission's findings on fundamental points. 

One question of primary importance concerning milk was added 
to the problems recommended for further study. 

The outcome of the work is the second edition of the London 
report, printed below. 

This document was communicated to the meeting of the Bureau 
of the Health Committee held at Moscow on June 22nd, 1936, and 
was transmitted to the Mixed Committee, which added it to the 
documentary material submitted to the Assembly. 

It was sent, like the first report, to the health administrations 
and scientific and technical institutions, academies, commissions 
and national councils mentioned on page 10. 

The next session of the Technical Commission will be held at the 
beginning of 1937, when studies of these national institutions and 
laboratories carried out in accordance with the programme 
recommended in the report, will be examined. 

The London report, revised and amplified as provided for 
at the Commission's first session, constitutes the technical basis 
for the work to be undertaken or pursued in co-operation by the 
technical organisations of the League of Nations and the other 
international institutions mentioned in the Assembly resolution. 



PART I. 
ENERGY, PROTEIN AND FAT REQUIREMENTS. 

All the figures on which the Commission has agreed are 
average values and it is essential that they should be interpreted 
in the light of this fact. 



1. Calorie Requirements. 

(#) An adult, male or female, living an ordinary everyday life 
in a temperate climate and not engaged in manual work is taken 
as the basis on which the needs of other age -groups are reckoned. 
An allowance of 2,400 calories net 1 per day is considered adequate 
to meet the requirements of such an individual. 

(b) The following supplements for muscular activity should be 
added to the basic requirements in [a) : 2 



Light work : 
Moderate work : 
Hard work : 
Very hard work : 



up to 75 calories per hour of work. 

75-150 
150-300 
,, 300 calories and upwards per hour 
of work. 



(c) The energy requirements for other ages and for mothers 

can be obtained from the following table of coefficients : 

Age (years) Coefficient Calories 

1-2 0.35 840 

2-3 0.42 1,000 

3-5 0.5 1,200 

5-7 0.6 1,440 



1 The term " net calories " refers to the amount of energy available from the 
food actually assimilated. 

2 For statistical purposes, to be comparable with previously adopted standards, 
6oo calories may be taken as an avearge supplement for muscular work. 



Coefficient 


Calories 


0.7 


1,680 


0.8 


1,920 


0.9 


2,160 


1.0 


2,400 


1.0 


2,400 



— M 

Age (years) 

7-9 

9-11 

11-12 

12-15 2 

15 and upwards . . . 

The muscular activities characteristic of every healthy child 
and adolescent necessitate additions to the basic requirements 
shown in (r). It is suggested that the activities of children of 
both sexes from 5-11 years be considered as equivalent to light 
work, of boys from 11-15 years as moderate work and of girls 
from 11-15 upwards as light work. 

Women : 

Pregnant 

Nursing 



Coefficient 


Calories 


1.0 


2,400 


1.25 


3,000 



Allowance must also be made for women engaged in household 
duties, whether pregnant or not; these have to be reckoned as 
equivalent to light work for eight hours daily. 

The requirements for babies under 1 year are difficult to 
specify except in terms of body -weight; the following allowances 
are considered adequate : 



Age (months) 

0-6 ... 


Calories per kilogramme 
of body -weight 

100 


6-12 . . . 


90 



2. Protein Requirements 

In ] 

below 



In practice, the protein intake for all adults should not fall 
slow 1 gramme of protein per kilogramme of body -weight. 



1 The needs of puberty are covered by giving the child of 12-15 years a calorie 
allowance corresponding to a coefficient of i, with appropriate supplements for 
muscular activity and a protein allowance of 2.5 grammes per kilogramme of body- 
weight. 



— i5 — 

The protein should be derived from a variety of sources, and it is 
desirable that a part of the protein should be of animal origin. 

During growth, pregnancy and lactation, some animal protein 
is essential, and in the growing period it should form a large 
proportion of the total protein. 

The following allowances of total protein are recommended : 

Age (years) Grammes per kilogramme 

of body-weight 

1-3 3.5 

3-5 3.0 

5-12 2.5 

12-15 1 2.5 1 

15-17 2.0 

17-21 1.5 

21 and upwards .... 1.0 

Women : 

Pregnant — 0-3 months 1.0 

4-9 months 1.5 

Nursing 2.0 

3. Fat Requirements. 

Fat must be a constituent of the normal diet, but the data at 
present available do not suffice to permit a precise statement of 
the quantity required. The high content of vitamins A and/or D 
in certain fats justifies their use in liberal amounts. 

4. The Influence of Climate on Dietary Requirements. 

In cold climates, the energy -content of the diet may need to be 
increased. Where climatic conditions or social customs do not 
permit of exposure to sunshine, vitamin D should be supplied 
in the diet. 



1 See footnote i, page 14. 



PART II. 

MINERAL AND VITAMIN REQUIREMENTS. 

5. The Commission recognises the fact that the deficiencies 
of modern diets are usually in the protective foods (foods 
rich in minerals and vitamins) rather than in more strictly 
energy -bearing foods (rich in calories). 

The term protective food denotes a foodstuff which is 
especially rich in those nutrient principles, " good " protein, 
vitamins or minerals, in which the principal foods of any geo- 
graphic area are deficient. 

Thus — e.g., in the United States of America, where the chief 
constituents of the daily diet are usually white bread and other 
foods made from white flour — sugar and muscle meats, milk 
and the leafy vegetables form the most important protective foods. 

In other regions where the protein content of the diet is either 
too low or of poor quality (e.g., Asiatic diets consisting chiefly 
of polished rice or soja bean, with a small quota of green vege- 
tables), meat would provide a highly valuable protective food. 

In yet other areas where the diet consists almost exclusively 
of cooked or dry foods, fresh fruits and/or vegetables might be 
the most important protective food. 

Among the protective foods are, first and most important, milk 
and milk products (including butter), eggs and glandular tissues ; 
then green-leaf vegetables, fruit, fat, fish and meat (muscle). 
Among the energy -bearing foods of little or no protective power 
are sugar, milled cereals and certain fats. 

Of energy-giving foods, unmilled cereals are not rich in protec- 
tive nutrients and the more they are refined the less is their 
protective power. Many fats, especially when refined, possess 
little or no protective constituents. Refined sugar is of value only 
as a source of energy ; it is entirely devoid of minerals and vitamins . 



— 17 — 

The increasing habit in certain countries of large sugar con- 
sumption tends to lessen the amount of protective foods in the 
diet and is to be regarded with concern. 

In cases where energy values are equal, protective foods 
should always be preferred. 



6. Requirements of Pregnancy and Lactation. 



The Commission has attempted to define the quantitative needs 
of protective foods for perfect nutrition in terms of the require- 
ments for the pregnant and nursing woman. She should be 
regarded as the member of the population needing the greatest 
"protection" in order to ensure adequate physical endowment 
for the child at birth and optimum nutrition during infancy. 

The greatest difficulty in arranging such a diet is to provide 
adequate calcium, phosphorus, iron and vitamins B v B 2 , G 
and D. 

7. Milk, whole or skimmed, is a rich source of calcium salts 
and phosphates and of vitamin B 2 , also a good source of vitamin B x ; 
milk fat is an excellent source of vitamin A. Eggs contain vitamins 
A, B x , B 2 and D and are rich in iron. The proteins of milk and 
eggs are not only themselves of the highest nutritive value, but also 
improve the utilisation of the protein contained in cereals and 
vegetables. Milk has an additional advantage in that the abundance 
and availability of its calcium salts and phosphates enhance 
the effect of any vitamin D derived from other articles of diet or 
from sunshine. Milk, although itself poor in iron, renders more 
effective the iron contained in the diet. 

8. Ordinary diets are usually inadequate in vitamin D and, 
except in sunny seasons and sunny countries, a small daily ration 
of cod-liver oil or other fish-liver oil rich in vitamin D is to be recom- 
mended in the diet of the pregnant and nursing mother and in 
that of the growing child. Fish -liver oils are also the richest 
known natural sources of vitamin A and are important sources 



— 18 — 

of iodine. In goitrous regions, where sea-fish are not available, 
the provision of extra iodine in the form of iodised salt or in some 
other way is recommended. 

9. An extended dietary use of the potato is recommended 
to replace part of the sugar and highly milled cereals in the ordi- 
nal} diet. Potatoes provide extra vitamin C and more readily 
available calcium and phosphorus than are present in cereals. 
Potatoes also yield more iron and B vitamins than milled cereals. 

The above paragraph applies to countries where potatoes are 
abundant, but it is of general application, due account being 
taken of local resources. 



10. Requirements of Other Adults and Children. 

In Tables I -VI, some simple schedules have been prepared to 
show how a selection of common protective foods will ensure safe 
intakes of the necessary protein, minerals and vitamins for a 
pregnant and nursing woman and for infants and children of 
ages up to 14 years. These are based on investigations made 
in the United Kingdom, the United States and Scandinavian 
countries, and are put forward to indicate how the dietary prin- 
ciples set forth in this report could be put into practice where these 
foods are available. In every locality, it will be necessary to 
discover the selection of food materials which is best adapted to 
national dietary habits and resources, and at the same time 
conforms to the needs of pregnancy, lactation and growth. 

No attempt is made to lay down a detailed dietary programme, 
or to suggest the wide choice of protective and energy -yielding 
foods, whose selection will be influenced by availability, appetite 
and economic cost. Attention should, however, be directed to the 
value of the lightly milled cereals as a further source of iron and 
vitamin B x , and of butter in preference to other common fats, 
because of its rich content of vitamin A. 

The protective foods in Table I are arranged to yield approxi- 
mately 1,400 calories without inclusion of cereals, fats or sugar; 



- i 9 — 

these can be added as required to satisfy the energy requirements 
of any individual. For adults other than the pregnant and nursing 
woman, the amount of protective foods might be reduced, if 
necessary, for economic reasons. For growing children, however, 
the maintenance of a high proportion of protective foods should 
be the aim. 

In Tables II -VI, schedules are drawn up on the above 
basis for age-groups 0-1, 1-2, 2-3, 3-5, 5-7 and 12-14 years. 
Since the rate of growth of a child decreases with advancing age, 
it will be noted that the amounts of protective foods are not greatly 
increased for the older groups. 



11. General Recommendations. 

A. Although a simplified diet may be so constituted 
from a few protective foods as to be satisfactory, it is a general 
principle that variety in diet tends to safety, provided it 
contains a sufficiency of the protective types of food materials. 

B. White flour in the process of milling is deprived of 
important nutritive elements. Its use should be decreased and 
partial substitution by lightly milled cereals and 
especially by potatoes is recommended. The consumption 
of an excessive amount of s u g a r is to be condemned, as it 
tends to lessen the proportion of protective foods. 

C. Milk should form a conspicuous element of the diet at all 
ages. The Commission commends the tendency manifested in 
some countries to increase the daily intake up to one litre per day 
for pregnant and nursing women, as well as to provide an 
abundant supply for infants, children of all ages and adolescents. 
The practice of providing milk either free or at a reduced 
price to these groups is highly recommended. 

The ration of milk indicated in Tables I -VI provides from 
100-75 % of the total calories during the first years of life, de- 
creasing to about 50% at 3-5 years and to about 25% at the age 



— 20 — 

of puberty. For the older groups, some portion of the milk or 
meat may be replaced by cheese. 

The Commission desires to draw attention to the high nutritive 
value of skimmed and separated milk, which, 
although deprived of its vitamin A through removal of the fat, 
retains the protein, the B and C vitamins, the calcium and other 
mineral elements. The Commission deplores the large wastage 
in many countries of this valuable food. 

D. Fresh vegetables and /or fruit should always be constituents 
of the normal mixed diet. Adequate provision of the vitamins 
other than vitamin D can be readily accomplished by inclusion 
in the diet of optimum amounts of protective foods. 

E. The Commission emphasises the need for provision of 
extra vitamin D, wherever and whenever sunshine is not 
abundant, especially in the period of growth and during pregnancy. 
Where the appropriate rich foods are not available, only such 
vitamin preparations as are officially con- 
trolled and approved should be permitted. The indis- 
criminate use of irradiated foods, except in the case of milk, is 
deprecated. 



12. Problems recommended for Further Study. 

A. Assessment of the nutritional state of children. 

B. Nutritive food requirements during the first year of life. 

C. Minimum vitamin and mineral requirements. 

D. Minimum fat requirements. 

E. The nutritive and " supplementary " values of the different 

protein-containing foods, to determine to what extent 
and in what forms animal protein is necessary for 
growth and health. 

F. The relative nutritive value of different cereals according 

to the degree of milling. 



— 21 — 

G. The extent to which the increasing consumption of sugar is 
detrimental to health. 

H. Influence of climate on food requirements. 

I. The extent to which diets in common use fall below the 
standards recommended in this report. 

J. The optimum amounts of milk required at different ages. 



— 22 — 



TABLE 
DIETARY SCHEME FOR THE 



A. Protective Foods. 



Food 



Amount 



Protein 



Calcium 



Phos- 
phorus 



Iron 



Grammes 



Iodine 



Milligrammes 



MILK 



MEAT (or fish or poultry) 



EGGS (one) 



CHEESE (c) 



Green and Leafy 
VEGETABLES 



POTATOES . . 
LEGUMES, Dried 
COD-LIVER OIL 



An available source of Vita- 
min C (from raw fruits and 
vegetables) 



Total yield 



1,000 


32 


1.2 


0.9 


2.4 


120(a) 


22 


— 


0.3 


5.0 


2(«i) 


50 


6 


— 


0.1 


1.5 


30 


8 


0.3 


0.2 


0.4 


100(d) 


1 


0.1 


— 


1.2 


250 


6 


— 


0.2 


2.0 


10(e) 


2 


— 


— 


0.2 


3.5 












77 


1.6 


1.7 


10.2 



0.02- 
0.05 



Richest 
source 



Ade- 
quate 



B. Supplementary energy -yielding foods by means of which the individual's 



CEREALS as needed 
Highly milled . . 

or 
Whole grain . . 



250 (/) 


28 


__ 


0.2 


2.5 


250(g) 


— 


0.1 


0.9 


9.0 



FATS as needed. 
SUGAR as needed. 



1 The estimates are based on data in Sherman's " Chemistry of Food and Nutrition", 
fat. The figures for vitamins, however, are converted to international units and must be 



23 — 



REGNANT AND NURSING WOMAN. 



/itamin 


Vitamin 


Vitamin 


Vitamin 


Vitamin 








A 


Bi 


B 2 


C 


D 


Calories 




Remarks 


Intern 


ational 




International 








Ur 


lits 




Units 








Rich 


Good 


Rich 


Poor 


Poor 


660 


(a) 


Calculations for lean meat. 


1,000- 


(50-75) 














3,000) 
















Poor 


Poor (b) 


Rich 


Poor 


None 


240 


K) 


One-half calculated as avail- 
able iron. 


Rich 


Good 


Rich 


None 


25-40 


70 


(b) 


Except glands (liver and kid- 


1,000- 


(about 












neys) and pork muscle. 


1,300) 


15) 














Rich 


Poor 


Good 


Poor 


Poor 


125 


(c) 


Calculated as cheddar 


(800- 














cheese. 


1,000) 
















Rich 


Good 


Good 


Poor 


None 


30 


(d) 


Estimated on basis of 1 / 3 


1,000- 














cabbage, 1 / 3 lettuce, */, 


1,500) 














spinach. 


Poor 


Good 


Good 


Good 


None 


250 






Poor 


Good 


Good 


None 


None 


35 


w 


Calculated as beans. 


Rich 


None 


None 


None 


Rich 


30 






1,800- 








(about 








3,500) 






To yield 
250- 
500 


300) 








Over 


Over 


Ade- 


Over 


About 


1,440 




5,000 


150 


quate 


500 


300 









nergy requirements can be met. 



Rich 








1,000 


(about 










250) 








1,000 



(/) Calculated as white flour. 
(g) Calculated as whole wheat. 



:h edition, 1933. Tn « figures for milk are calculated for a content of 3.2% protein and 3.5% 
:garded as rough approximation only. 



— 2 4 — 

Infants to 1 year. 

Breast-feeding is strongly recommended during the first 8-9 months 

of life. Even when the mother's diet and condition of life are suited for 
satisfactory lactation, the infant should receive supplements of (i) fresh 
fruit anil or vegetable juice to provide antiscorbutic vitamin C and 
(ii) whenever abundant sunshine is not available, a small daily ration of 
cod-liver oil of good quality, increasing gradually to 6 grammes daily, 
to provide vitamin D. 

Artificial feeding. When breast-feeding is not possible, the basis of the 

infant's diet should be milk supplemented by an adequate amount of 
substances rich in vitamins A, G and D. In cases where only partial breast- 
feeding is practicable, the supplementary diet should consist of milk and 
other suitable protective foods. Milk should always be pasteurised or 
raised to the boil to obviate the risk of milk- borne infections. 

Prevention of anaemia. The infant's reserves of iron salts being small 

and usually exhausted before the sixth month and milk being deficient in 
this essential dietary element, the addition to the diet of all infants of small 
amounts of foods rich in iron is advocated from an early age. Foods recom- 
mended are egg yolk, if tolerated by the infant, or purees of green vegetables 
or carrots; in special cases, direct administration of iron salts may be 
ordered by the physician. 

Premature infants, whether breast-fed or artificially fed, have even 

greater need than normal infants for supplementary vitamin and mineral 
additions to the diet. These should be begun in the first days after birth. 
Artificial vitamin D concentrates should only be given under medical 
supervision, in order to avoid the risk of over-dosage. 

Cereals. The practice of giving cereal foods before the age of 6 months 

is not advised; after this age, the use of potatoes, suitably prepared, is 
advocated, as a partial or complete substitute for cereals. 

Fat. Milk containing 3-3.5 % fat is recommended as most generally 

suited for infant feeding, since large amounts of fat tend to interfere with 
digestion and to cause fat intolerance. 



— 25 — 

TABLE II. 
Children, age 1-2 years (840 calories). 

Food Amount Calories Protein 

(grammes) (grammes) 

A. Protective Foods. 

MILK 750 490 24 

1 EGG (or equivalent, as 30 gram- 
mes meat or fish or liver, if 

available) 48 70 6 

Green leafy VEGETABLES .... 30-60 15 — 

POTATO (or CARROT) 30 30 — 

COD-LIVER OIL 3 30 — 

635 30 

B . Supplementary Energy-yielding Foods . 

FATS (butter, if possible) 7 50 — 

CEREALS (calculated as bread). . 50 150 7 

Total 835 37 



TABLE III. 
Children, age 2-3 years (1,000 calories). 

Food Amount Calories Protein 

(grammes) (grammes) 

A. Protective Foods. 

MILK 1,000 660 32 

1 EGG (or equivalent, as 30 grammes 
meat or fish or liver, if available) 48 70 6 

Green leafy VEGETABLES .... 30-60 15 — 

POTATO (and other root vege- 
tables) 50 50 1 

COD-LIVER OIL 3 30 — 

A source of vitamin C (raw vege- 
table or fruit). 

825 ~~39 

B. Supplementary Energy-yielding Foods. 

FATS (butter, if possible) 10 75 — 

CEREALS (calculated as bread) 50 150 7 

Total 1,050 46 



— 26 — 

TABLE IV. 
Children, age 3-5 years (1,200 to 1,300 calories). 

Food Amount Calories Protein 

(grammes) (grammes 

A. Protective Foods. 

MILK 1,000 660 32 

1 EGG (or equivalent, as 30 grammes 
meat or fish or liver, if available) 48 70 6 

Green leafy VEGETABLES .... 60-100 20 2 

POTATO (and other root vege- 
tables) 100 100 2 

COD-LIVER OIL 3 30 — 

A source of vitamin C (raw vege- 
table or fruit). 

880 42 

B. Supplementary Energy-yielding Foods. 

FAT (butter, if possible) 15 110 — 

CEREALS (calculated as bread) . . 75 225 11 

Total 1,215 53 

TABLE V. 

Children, age 5-7 years (1,400 calories). 

Food Amount Calories Protein 

(grammes) (grammes) 

A. Protective Foods. 

MILK 1,000 660 32 

EGG 48 70 6 

MEAT, FISH, LIVER or CHEESE. .30 40 6 
Green leafy VEGETABLES .... 100 30 3 
POTATO (and other root vege- 
tables) 150 150 3 

COD-LIVER OIL 3 30 — 

A source of vitamin C (raw vege- 
table or fruit). 

980 50 

B. Supplementary Energy-yielding Foods. 

FATS (butter, if possible) 20 150 — 

CEREALS (calculated as bread) . . 100 300 14 

Total 1,430 64 



— 27 — 

TABLE VI. 

Children, age 12-14 years (2,600 calories (girls), 
3,200 calories (boys)). 

Food Amount Calories Protein 

(grammes) (grammes) 

A. Protective Foods. 



MILK 1,000 660 32 

1 EGG 48 70 6 

MEAT or FISH or LIVER or 

CHEESE 90 120 18 

Green leafy VEGETABLES .... 250 75 7 

POTATO (and other root vege- 
tables) 300 300 6 

GOD-LIVER OIL 3 30 — 

A source of Vitamin G (raw 
vegetable or fruit). 

1,255 69 

B. Supplementary Energy -yielding Foods. 

FATS (butter, if possible), cereals and other foods to furnish total 
calories as required. 



* 



AUTHORISED AGENTS FOR THE PUBLICATIONS 

OF THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS 



ARGENTINE 

Libreria " El Ateneo ", calle Florida, 371, 
Buenos Aires. 

AUSTRALIA (Commonwealth of) 

H. A. Goddard Ltd., 255a, George Street, 
Sydney. 



AU 



STRIA 

Manz'sche Verlags- und Universitatsbuch- 
handlung, Kohlrnarkt 20, Vienna I. 



BELGIUM 

Agence Dechenne, Messageries de la Presse, 
S.A., 16-22, rue du Persil, Brussels. 

BOLIVIA 

Arn6 Herrnanos, Calle Illiraanf, Nos. 10-20, 
La Paz. 



IL 



Livraria Alleraa ", Frederico Will, rua da 
Alfandcga, 69, Rio de Janeiro. 







BULGARIA 

Librairie Francaise et Etrang6re, J. Carasso 
& Cie., Bd. '* Tsar Osvoboditel ", No. 8, 
Sofia. 

CANADA 

League of Nations Society in Canada, 124, 



I 



Wellington Street, Ottawa. 

GHILE 

m Carlos Niemeyer, Libreria Universal, Cas. 
293, Valparaiso. 

CHINA 

Commercial Press Ltd., Sales Office, 211, 
Honan Road, Shanghai. 

COLOMBIA 

Libreria Voluntad S. A., calle Real, Nos. 
297-301, BogotA. 

CUBA 

La Casa Belga, Rene de Smedt, O'Reilly, 59, 
Havana. 

CZECHOSLOVAKIA 

Librairie F. Topic, 11, Narodni, Prague. 



DANZIG (Free City of) 

Georg Stilke, Buchhandlung, L ie 27, 

Danzk;. 

DENMARK 

Levin & Munksgaard, Publishers, Norre- 
gade 6, Copenhagen. 

ECUADOR 

Victor Janer, Guayaquil. 

EGYPT 

G.M.'sBook Shop, 116, Sharia Emad El Din 
(Opp. Da vies Bryan), Cairo. 

ESTONIA 

Akadeemiline Kooperatiiv, Ulikooli Tan. 15, 
Tartus. 

FINLAND 

Akateeminen Kirjakauppa, Keskuskatu 2, 
Helsinki, 

FRANCE 

Editions A. Pedone, 13, rue Soufflot, 
Paris (V"). 

GERMANY 

Car] Heymanns Verlag, Mauerstrasse 44, 
Berlin, W.8. 

GREAT BRITAIN, NORTHERN IRELAND 
AND THE CROWN COLONIES 

George Allen & Unwin, Ltd., 40, Museum 
Street, London, W.C.t. 

GREECE 

" Eleftheroudakis ", Librairie internatio- 
nale, Place de la Constitution, Athens. 

GUATEMALA 

Goubaud & Cia., Ltda., Sucesor, Guate- 
mala. 

HAITI 

Librairie-Papeterie Mme. D. Viard, angle 
des rues du Centre et des Casernes, Po 

au-Prince. 

HUNGARY 

Librairie Grill, Dorottya utca 2, Budapest. 

ICELAND 

Peter Halldorsson, Reykjavik. 







INDIA 



• 



IRISH FREE 



tddle Abl 






ITALY 

JAPAN 

Maruno 

.bushiki- 
ichome, 



Surugac.ho,Nih 



LATVIA 






LUXEMBURG (Grand-Duchy of) 

Lib luramer, PI laume, 5, 



MEXICO 

Ce 



\ gen- 
Nacioua.1 ", 
4, Mexico, D.F. 



NETHERLANDS 

Marti nus Nijhoff, Boekhan 
Lange Voorhout g. The 



-Uitg- 



NETHERLANDS INDIES 

Algemeene Boekbandel G. Kolff & Co., 
Batavia-Weltevreden. 

NEW ZEALAND 

Messrs. Whitcombe & Tombs, Ltd., Book- 
rs, Christchurch. 

NORWAY 

Olaf Norli, Universitetsgaten, 24, Oslo. 

PANAMA 

Isidro A. Beluche, Apartado 755, Avenida 
Norte No. 49, Panaj. 



PARAGUAY 



Santiago Puif 
1. Asunci6n. 



3LA 

& Wolff, ulica Zgodj 
Warsaw. 



PORTUGAL 

Lisbon. 






Rua Aurea il 



ROUMANIA 

i Romaneasca », 3-5, Boul. 
;arest, I. 

SOUTH AFRICA (Union of) 

• Miller, Ltd., 29, Adderley 
Cape Tow 

SPAIN 

a Bosch, Ronda Universida 

\RCELONA. 

1 Internacional de Romo, Ale 

\DRID. 

SWEDEN 

C. E. Fritze, Hofbokhandel, Fredsga 
Stockhol ■ 

SWITZERLAND 

Librairie Payot & C ,e , Geneva, Laus 
V'evey, Montreux, Neuchatel, " 
and Basle. 

Hans Raunhardt, Buchhandlung, 
gasse 17, Zurich, I. 

TURKEY 

Librairie Hachette, Succursale de 
469, Av. de l'lndependance, Boite ; 
2219, Istanbul. 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

World Peace Foundation, 8, We 
Street, New York, N.Y., and 
Vernon Street, Boston, Mass. 

VENEZUELA 

Librerfa Alejandro d'Empaire, Trai 
Col6n, 36, Apartado postal 274, O 

YUGOSLAVIA (Kingdom of) 

Librairie Geca Kon S.A., 12, rue 

Mihailova, Belgrade, 
Librairie de 1'Universite et de YA 

Yougoslave, St. Kugli, Ilica, 30, 
Knjigaraa" Schwentner ", Presernov 

Ljubljana. 



For other Countries, apply: 

PUBLICATIONS DEPARTMENT OF THE LEAGUE OF NATIO 

GENEVA (Switzerland). 



£ 




w 

H 

< 

Q 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 



Acme Library Card Pocket 
LOWE-MARTIN CO. Limited 



MPhy 



League of Nations 

The problem of nutrition, 
vol.3. Nutrition in various 
countries. 1956. 







Y- 



LEAGUE OF NATIONS 



THE PROBLEM OF NUTRITION 



VOLUME III. 



NUTRITION IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES 




- <l 



LEAGUE OF NATIONS 

Publications dealing with the Problem of 

NUTRITION 

THE PROBLEM OF NUTRITION 

Just out : 

Vol. I. Interim Report of the Mixed Committee on the Problem 
of Nutrition. (Ser. L.o.N. P. 1936.II.B.3.) 

Price : 2/- $0.50 

Vol. II. Report on the Physiological Bases of Nutrition drawn 
up by the Technical Commission of the Health 
Committee at the meeting held in London (November 
25th-29th, 1935), revised and amplified at the meeting 
held at Geneva (June 4th-8th, 1936). (Ser. L.o.N. 
P. 1936.II.B.4.) Price : 6d. $0.15 

In preparation 

Vol. IV. Statistics of Food Production, Consumption and Prices. 

Documentation prepared by the International 
Institute of Agriculture, presented to the Mixed 
Committee on the Problem of Nutrition, June 1936. 
(Ser. L.o.N. P. 1936.II.B.6.) 

Published previously 

Nutrition and Public Health, by Et. Burnet and W. R. 
Aykroyd. (Off-print No. 2 from the Quarterly Bulletin 
of the Health Organisation, Vol. IV, No. 2, June 1935.) 
152 pages. Price : 2/- $0.50 

Nutrition considered in relation to Public Health and to 
Economic Conditions. "League of Nations Questions", 
No. 4, (Information Section Pamphlet.) 
24 pages. Price : 6d. $0.15 

LEAGUE OF NATIONS 
PUBLICATIONS DEPARTMENT 
GENEVA (Switzerland) 



L 



[Commnnicated to the Assembly, 
the Council and the Members of 
the League.] 



Official No.: A. 12 (b). 1936. H. B. 



Geneva, June 24th, 1936. 



LEAGUE OF NATIONS 



I ) 



THE PROBLEM OF NUTRITION 



VOLUME ni 



NUTRITION IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES 



Series of League of Nations Publications 

n. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL 

1936. II.B. 5. 



CONTENTS. 



NUTRITION IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 



POST-WAR DEVELOPMENTS IN THE FIELD OF NUTRITION 

Page 

General Observations 17 

Union of South Africa 17 

Child Nutrition in Cape Colony ; 18 

Australia : 

Territory of Papua : 

General Survey 19 

Mandated Territory of New Guinea : 

Nutrition of the Indigenous Population 20 

Austria : 

General Observations 20 

Conditions in Carinthia 21 

Conditions in Other Provinces 22 

Belgium 23 

United Kingdom 24 

Bulgaria 27 

Czechoslovakia : 

The Effects of Unemployment on Nutrition 27 

Sub-Carpathian Russia 30 

Finland 31 

France : 

Principal Foodstuffs 32 

Variety and Improvement : Changing Habits 36 

Hungary 39 

Italy : 

Improvement in Nutrition 40 

Measures to promote Independence of Outside Supplies ... 42 

By-products and Substitutes 42 

S. d. N. 2.030 (F) 2.250 (A.) 7/36. Imp. du J. de G. 



— 4 — 

Page 

Measures to encourage the Consumption of Certain Products 43 

An Emergency Dietary 43 

A Standard Mixed Diet 43 

The Feeding of Children 44 

Rules for a Rational Diet 44 

Latvia : 

Production of Foodstuffs 45 

Consumption of Foodstuffs 52 

Increase in the Consumption of Foodstuffs, 1931-1935. . . 34 
Interdependence of Exports of Foodstuffs and Other Branches 

of Latvian Economic Life 57 

Netherlands 58 

Netherlands East Indies 59 

Curasao 60 

Siam : 

Prevailing Level of Nutrition 60 

Switzerland 61 

Consumption of Foodstuffs in Switzerland 61 

Turkey 62 

Yugoslavia : 

General Remarks 63 

The Nutrition Problem in Districts which are not Agriculturally 

Self-supporting 63 

* 
* * 

A SURVEY OF THE MEASURES TAKEN IN CERTAIN 
COUNTRIES BY GOVERNMENTS, PUBLIC AUTHORITIES AND 

NATIONAL ORGANISATIONS TO BRING ABOUT AN 
IMPROVEMENT IN THE NUTRITION IN VARIOUS SECTIONS 

OF THE POPULATION. 

Chapter I. 
Measures taken on behalf of Mothers and Infants. . 69 

Union of South Africa 70 

Argentine Republic 70 

Australia : 

Federal Capital Territory : 

Mothercraft Centres 70 

The State of New South Wales : 

Food Distribution to Children of Unemployed 70 



— 5 



Page 



The State of Victoria : 

Baby Centres 70 

The State of Tasmania : 

Child Welfare Associations 71 

The State of Western Australia 71 

Territory of Papua 71 

Mandated Territory of New Guinea 71 

Austria 72 

Belgium 72 

United Kingdom 72 

Bulgaria 74 

Estonia 74 

Finland 74 

France 75 

Iraq 75 

Italy 76 

Netherlands 76 

Poland 76 

Roumania 77 

Switzerland 78 

United States of America 78 

Yugoslavia 78 

Chapter II. 

Measures taken on behalf of Children of School Age 

AND Young People 80 

Union of South Africa ^^ 80 

Argentine Republic : 

x\ction by Central Authority 80 

Action by Local Authorities 81 

Australia : 

New South Wales : 

Child Endowment 82 

Ascertainment of Malnutrition 82 

The State of Victoria : 

Care of Schoolchildren 82 

The State of Western Australia 83 

Federal Capital Territory 83 

The State of South Australia 83 



_ 6 — 

Page 

Austria : 

The Feeding of Children 83 

Meals for Schoolchildren 84 

Meals at Kindergarten Schools 84 

Milk Rations for Children of the Unemployed 84 

Food Packets 84 

Means of ascertaining the State of Nutrition 85 

Belgium 85 

United Kingdom : 

Medical Inspection 86 

School Meals (England and Wales) 87 

Milk in Schools 88 

School Meals in Scotland 88 

Bulgaria 9© 

Czechoslovakia 9° 

Denmark 9° 

Estonia 9° 

France 91 

Italy 91 

Latvia : 

Feeding of Pupils in Riga Schools 91 

Netherlands 92 

Poland 92 

Roumania 93 

Switzerland 94 

Turkey 94 

United States of America 95 

Uruguay 95 

Yugoslavia 95 

Nutrition of Elementary Schoolchildren 96 

Children's Hostels 96 

Secondary Schools and Colleges 96 

Protection and Nutrition of Apprentices and Young Workers 97 



Chapter III. 



Measures taken on behalf of Adults, Unemployed, etc. 98 

Argentine Republic : 

Canteens 98 

Unemployed 98 



— 7 — 



Page 



Australia : 

The State of New South Wales : 

The Living or Basic Wage 99 

The Level of Nutrition 99 

Table I 100 

Table II loi 

Employees and Workmen of Public Authorities loi 

Unemployed Persons in receipt of Relief 102 

Outdoor Relief 102 

Relief Work of Private Organisations 103 

The State of Victoria : 

Industrial Workers and Agricultural Labourers 104 

Unemployed Persons 104 

The Federal Capital Territory 104 

Industrial Workers 104 

Unemployed Persons in receipt of Relief 105 

The State of Western Australia 105 

The State of South Australia 105 

Austria : 

The " Winter Aid " Fund for the Relief of Necessitous Families 107 

United Kingdom 109 

Czechoslovakia : 

Relief of Unemployment 109 

Denmark 112 

Estonia 112 

Finland 112 

France 113 

The Nutrition of Persons benefiting under Social Insurance 

Schemes 113 

Nutrition of the Unemployed 114 

Hungary 115 

Italy : 

Assistance to the Unemployed and to Poor Families .... 116 

Statistics of Relief Work 116 

Assistance given by Insurance Institutions 117 

Workers' Canteens 117 

Hostels 117 

Latvia : 

Influence of Government Measures against Unemployment on 

the Consumption of Foodstuffs 118 

Improvement in the Living Conditions of Agricultural Workers 119 

Improvement of Nutrition in Latgale 119 



Page 

Poland 1 20 

Sweden 122 

Switzerland 122 

Turkey 123 

United States of America 124 

Uruguay 128 

Venezuela 128 

Yugoslavia 128 

Feeding the Unemployed 129 

Chapter IV. 

Army and Navy Dietaries 129 

Union of South Africa 130 

Austria 131 

Belgium 132 

United Kingdom • 133 

Czechoslovakia 135 

Estonia 135 

Finland 136 

France 137 

Iraq 137 

Italy 137 

Latvia 140 

Poland 140 

Sweden 142 

Switzerland 143 

Turkey 144 

United States of America 144 

Yugoslavia 146 

Chapter V. 

Measures to enable Particular Categories of Consumers 

TO OBTAIN Foodstuffs at Reduced Prices 147 

Union of South Africa : 

Scheme for encouraging Consumption of Surplus Milk and 

Butter 147 

Milk and Cheese 148 

Butter 149 



— 9 — 

Page 

United Kingdom ,. 150 

Bulgaria 152 

Czechoslovakia 153 

France : 

Agricultural Production Associations 154 

Consumers' Co-operatives 155 

Private Traders 155 

Italy : 

Food and Wages 156 

Contracts stipulating Payment of Part Wages in Kind ... 156 

Contracts stipulating the Supply of Food 157 

"Metayage" 157 

Family Allowances 158 

Moderating Influence on Foodstuffs Prices 158 

Control of Prices in general 158 

Corporative Action with regard to Prices among Factory 

Workers 159 

Factory Stores 159 

Function of Consumers' Co-operatives 159 

Effects on the Market Price 160 

The '' Provvida " 160 

Netherlands : 

Netherlands East Indies 161 

Poland 161 

Switzerland , 162 

Uruguay 162 

Yugoslavia : 

Price Variations 162 

Price Control 163 

Chapter VI. 

Measures for ensuring the Quality of Foodstuffs. . 164 

Argentine Republic 164 

Austria : 

" Codex Alimentarius Austriacus " 164 

Supervision of the Trade in Foodstuffs 165 

Belgium 166 

United Kingdom 166 

Food and Drugs (Adulteration) Act, 1928 166 

Public Health Acts 167 

Milk Standards . . 169 



lO 

Page 

Bulgaria 172 

Denmark 1 73 

France I73 

Laws and Regulations : 

Regulations relating to the Fitness of Food for Human 

Consumption 173 

Regulations for the Detection and Punishment of Fraud 180 
Organisation of Supervision : 

Supervision in respect of Fitness for Consumption 181 

Detection and Punishment of Fraud : Functions of the 

Ministry of Agriculture 185 

Organisation of Certain Special Systems of Supervision. . 187 

Strengthening the Supervisory Organisation ........ 190 

Italy 190 

Public Health Officers 191 

Provincial Laboratories of Public Health 191 

Public Health Legislation on Foodstuffs 192 

Quality of Commodities for Sale 192 

Mexico 193 

Poland 194 

Roumania i94 

Switzerland I95 

Turkey 196 

Uruguay ^9^ 

Yugoslavia 196 

Chapter VII. 

Research, Education and Popular Instruction 197 

Union of South Africa 197 

Argentine Republic : 

The Municipal Institute of Nutrition in Buenos Aires .... 198 

Scheme for establishing Public Canteens 199 

Research 200 

Popular Instruction 201 

Australia : 

The State of New South Wales : 

Testing the Prevailing Level of Nutrition 201 

Education 202 

The State of Victoria : 

Education 202 



— II — 

Page 

The State of "Western Australia 203 

The Northern Territory 203 

Territory of Papua 203 

Mandated Territory of New Guinea : 

Nutrition of Indentured Natives 204 

Austria : 

Education 205 

Belgium : 

Education 205 

Popular Instruction 206 

United Kingdom : 

The Ministry of Health and Other Government Departments 206 

The Advisory Committee on Nutrition 207 

Work of the Ministry of Health (England and Wales) .... 207 

Activities of the Medical Research Council 208 

Research Work on Nutrition being carried out by Local 

Authorities with the Assistance of the Ministry of Health 209 

Milk Nutrition Committee's Investigation 209 

Investigations into Food Consumption in relation to Income 210 

Investigation by the Department of Health (Scotland). . . 211 

Nutrition Publicity (Scotland) 211 

Popular Instruction carried out by Private Organisations . . 211 

Nutrition Instruction in Schools (England and Wales) .... 213 

Nutrition Instruction in Schools (Scotland) 214 

Bulgaria 214 

Canada 215 

Denmark : 

Advisory Nutrition Committee 215 

Education 215 

Research 215 

Estonia 216 

Finland 216 

Research 216 

Education 217 

Popular Instruction 217 

France : 

National Committee for the Study of Nutrition 218 

Scientific Research : 

Existing Centres for Study and Scientific Research concerning 

Human Nutrition 219 

Proposals and Desiderata for the Development of Studies and 

Scientific Research regarding Human Nutrition 219 



Page 
Education and Popular Instruction : 

Application of the Results obtained by Scientific Research 

with a View to Advanced Instruction on Nutrition. . . 220 

Dissemination of Information on Nutrition 222 

Italy : 

Commission for the Study of Nutritional Problems .... 233 

Testing the Standard of Nutrition by the Public Authorities . . 234 

1929 Enquiry 234 

Enquiry into Bread-making in Sardinia 235 

Enquiry in the Province of Littoria 235 

Enquiry at Rhodes and elsewhere 236 

Enquiry from the Social Point of View 236 

Popular Instruction 237 

Latvia : 

Teaching Nutrition in Schools 237 

Campaign to stimulate the Consumption of Milk 239 

Campaign on behalf of Sugar 240 

Improvement in the Quality of Wheaten Bread 240 

Mexico -40 

Nutrition Research Institute 241 

Netherlands : 

Research 241 

Popular Instruction 242 

Education -^43 

Netherlands East Indies : 

Research 243 

Popular Instruction 244 

Poland : 

Research 244 

Education -45 

Roumania : 

Research 246 

Education and Popular Instruction 246 

Siam 

Popular Instruction 246 

Sweden : 

Research in Matters of Nutrition 247 

Education -4^ 

Popular Instruction 248 



— 13 — 



Page 



Switzerland : 

Popular Instruction 249 

Education 250 

Turkey 250 

Popular Instruction 250 

United States of America : 

Measures for the Improvement of Nutrition undertaken by 

the Public Health Service 250 

Enquiries into Family Expenditure on Food 253 

Nutrition of Children 254 

Education in Nutrition 256 

Popular Instruction 257 

Programme for an Under-nourished Child, 2 to 16 Years of Age 257 
American National Red Cross Organised Activities in 

Nutrition 258 

Uruguay 259 

Department of Nutrition and Dietetics 259 

National Commission for Rational Nutrition 260 

Research Work 260 

Education 261 

Popular Instruction 262 

Yugoslavia : 

Research 262 

Education 262 

Popular Instruction 263 



* 
* * 



REPORT OF THE SUB-COMMITTEE ON FOOD STATISTICS 
OF THE MIXED COMMITTEE ON THE PROBLEM 

OF NUTRITION. 

General Remarks 265 

Report 265 

Food Supply Statistics 266 

Cereals 266 

Sugar 266 

Milk 267 

Other Dairy Products 267 

Meat 267 

Poultry and Eggs 268 

Vegetables 268 

Fruit 268 



— 14 — 

Page 

Prices 268 

Financial Assistance to Agriculture 269 

Conclusion : Requests to the International Institute of Agri- 
culture 269 

Annex 269 



NUTRITION IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 



POST-WAR DEVELOPMENTS IN THE FIELD OF NUTRITION. 



GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 

In order to throw light on the state of popular nutrition in its economic 
aspect, the Secretariat has endeavoured to bring together some 
information on variations which have occurred in the consumption 
of foodstuffs in a number of countries. 

Taking a general view of countries like the United Kingdom, France, 
Switzerland, Belgium and the Netherlands, the question of general 
food shortage is not a matter for anxiety. Thanks to their wealth and 
their highly developed communications and widespread facilities for 
distribution, these countries are not exposed to the danger of scarcity. 
It is true that, among industrial or agricultural workers who have 
been particularly hard hit by unemployment or trade depression, 
large numbers may be underfed as the result of lack of purchasing 
power, in spite of the considerable efforts made to assist them. For the 
great majority of the population, however, the nutrition problem 
— though at first a problem of income — is in the main a problem of 
quality, balance of diet, hygiene and education. 

If in these countries the dietary is bad, it is due less to any deficiency 
of diet than to the fact that it is ill-balanced and incomplete, containing, 
perhaps, an excessive proportion of certain substances, while at the 
same time deficient in important constituents. Very appreciable progress 
seems nevertheless to have been made, in spite of the limitations imposed 
since the war by economic difficulties, and it would be valuable to be 
able to show to what extent these current changes in consumption 
are in the direction of more rational nutrition. 

In other countries, the necessity for providing means of subsistence 
for distressed sections of the population or for whole areas of the country 
is the primary purpose of endeavour. Where widespread poverty and 
distress have resulted from the destruction of trade and the loss of 
employment which the economic crisis brought about, the question 
is not one of establishing an ideal nutrition, but of securing sufficiency. 
The same is often true in more backward countries. 

Evidence both from advanced and from less prosperous communities 
will be found among the particulars which follow. 

Union of South Africa. 

The Health Department of the South African Government employs 
a field staff of medical officers and health inspectors continuously engaged 
in investigating health conditions in various parts of the country. 



— i8 — 

Their reports deal with health matters in general, including conditions 
of nutrition. Certain of the local authorities also employ full-time 
medical officers of health. From the reports of these officers, the Union 
Health Department is able to keep itself reasonably well informed 
of the prevailing level of nutrition in various areas and sections of the 
community. 

In addition to the reports furnished by officers of health, special 
investigations into nutrition conditions have been made at various 
times. Chief among these may be mentioned the investigation of the 
Carnegie Commission carried out in 1930-31 into the Poor White Problem 
in South Africa. Volume IV of the report of that Commission deals 
with the physical condition of the poor white and is concerned ver)^ 
largely with the nutrition of these people. Of the two million Europeans 
in the Union, approximately 300,000 were found to fall into the classi- 
fication "poor whites", and practically without exception all of these 
were found to be definitely malnourished. These "poor whites" belong 
very largely to the rural agricultural class. 

Of the 6 million Bantus in the Union, very useful information is 
obtained from the condition on recruitment for the gold-mining industry. 
The natives go to the mines for a contract period of nine months 
and then return to the native reserves. There is, therefore, a large 
labour turnover. Of the adult male natives presenting themselves to 
the recruiting agencies in the reserves, more than half are rejected as 
physically unfit for work on the mines chiefly for reasons of malnutrition. 

Of those taken on, most arrive on the mines in an under-nourished 
condition. The mines appreciate this fact and deliberately allow them 
a period of rest with unlimited food to bring them into a condition 
in which they can safely be put on to hard work underground. This 
malnourished condition of the natives in the reserves must be attributed 
very largely to the almost exclusive maize diet. There is a great 
preponderance of starch with insufficient protein, fat and vitamin. 
The dietary standard laid down for native labourers on the gold-mines 
by Government regulation includes a number of foodstuffs intended 
to correct these deficiencies. 

Child Nutrition in Cape Colony. 

The state of child nutrition in the Cape Province as a whole is fairly 
satisfactory, according to investigation made by the Medical Inspector 
of Schools. 

There are areas, however, where conditions are not good. Certain 
" poor white " settlements have a fairly high percentage of malnourished 
children, but of late years the condition has improved very much, 
especially in the older settled areas. Many cases also are found in some 
of the Karroo dorps, where extreme poverty prevents the children getting 
enough to eat. This state of affairs is always much aggravated during 
years of severe drought. There is likewise much malnutrition on some 



— 19 — 

of the diamond diggings, where want is extreme. In some fishing 
villages, too, especially where much salt fish is consumed, the percentage 
is higher than it should be, and in most areas where the ground is poor 
in quality and the people live on restricted and monotonous diet largely 
carbohydrate in character. 

There had been considerable improvement in some areas, where a 
better and more generous diet has been introduced into indigent 
boarding-houses. The chief needs are more milk and dairy products 
generally, especially in the areas where calcium and phosphorus are 
deficient. In these areas, too, the eating of tinned fish, bones and all, 
is to be encouraged because of the calcium phosphate in these bones. 

The Cape Province is supposed to be an agricultural country, but there 
is insufiicient consumption of dairy products in far too many homes. 
This is due to economic reasons, and is aggravated by the high price 
of dairy products generally. 



Australia. 
Territory of Papua. 

General Survey. 

In the Territory of Papua, a dependency of Australia, there is a native 
population of about 300,000 natives and about 1,000 Europeans inhabiting 
some 92,000 square miles of territory. The territory in great part consists 
of hills and swamps. The mountains rise to heights over 13,000 feet. 

For the most part, the native population still lives in villages and 
subsists mainly on the produce of their gardens. Apart from the work 
they do on the roads and as carriers for the Government, their life on 
the whole is very much what it must have been before the advent of 
Europeans. However, some pay tax varying from 105. to £1 per year 
and have to contend at times with the introduction of influenza and the 
consequent respiratory infections which everywhere seem to follow it. 
In most areas, the population is undoubtedly increasing, but, in some 
few, the population appears to be stationary or even diminishing. From 
the European point of view, all the rural villages must be suffering from 
a deficiency of protein. From time to time, they may get kangaroo 
meat or an occasional pig, either wild or tame, but the amount cannot 
be very great. Nevertheless, for the most part, the rural natives, even 
if at times under weight, do not appear to be in bad physical condition. 
The native food comprises sago, sweet-potatoes, taro, bananas, and 
various roots described as yams or taitu. The coastal people are better 
off in view of their ability to get fish, crabs and shell-fish in varying 
amounts. 

In the western part of the territory, much sago is eaten. Cases of 
beriberi occur and the occurrence of infantile beriberi is suspected. 



20 

Mandated Territory of New Guinea. 

Nutrition of the Indigenous Population. 

Village natives live under conditions which have varied extremely 
slightly from those existing prior to European invasion, which, in some 
areas, has existed for forty or fifty years, in others only a few years, 
and in others where the influence of European culture has been only 
sufficient to curb tribal warfare. 

Nutritional problems of the non-indentured portion of the population 
must, therefore, be considered under subheadings, which are mainly 
environmental. Before subdividing the study of diet from the point 
of view of environment, it must be understood that the native population 
is largely vegetarian — the staple diet is mainly carbohydrate, whether 
it is kau-kau (sweet-potato), taro, sac-sac (sago), tapioc (tapioca) or 
pit-pit. Later introduction of coconuts in coastal areas has considerably 
improved the dietetic balance. 

All protein and fatty foods (other than the small amounts of these 
contained in the local carbohydrate diet) are considered luxuries, and 
are added to the staple diet when available, whether they consist of 
fish in the coastal regions, pigs in all regions, kapuls (squirrels), flying 
foxes and muruks (cassowaries) in the interior, and coconuts and galip 
nuts in areas in which they grow. 

Many green vegetables are eaten in all parts of the territory, but 
the variety is so diverse in different areas that tabulation is difficult, 
each section of tribes having its own list of bush plants and leaves which 
are recognised as a necessity for addition to the local diet. 

In spite of the apparent shortage of proteins and fats, the average 
diet in villages is sufficient for the physical well-being of its inhabitants. 
Famines are almost unknown, and only occur in mountain areas in 
rare times, in which droughts destroy the crops, or in river-beds, where 
occasional floods wash away the gardens. 

The universal prevalence of malaria, framboesia and filaria (especially 
malaria) has much more influence on the morbidity and (especially 
infant) mortality than any shortage of food. The universal occurrence 
of tropical ulcers may, as has been stated, be of dietetic origin, but 
statistical figures since 1930 show an incidence in village population 
of only 2.7%. 

Austria. 

General Observations. 

The Federal Ministry for Social Welfare considers that the nutrition 
enquiry initiated by the League of Nations should not be regarded as 
concerned with medical or health questions in the narrower sense of 
the term, but that the problem under discussion is substantially an 
economic one. For, if there is any question of difficulty or impossibility 
of obtaining food supplies when foodstuffs of every quality and in ample 



21 

quantity are available for all classes and ages of the population, the 
inference must be that the means for purchasing the necessary food 
are lacking. If, on the other hand, the supply of foodstuffs and the 
purchasing power are adequate, then the nourishment will also be 
adequate — a nourishment in keeping with current views and varying 
in different countries with their habits and customs. 

Moreover, provided that nourishment is sufficient, an adequate 
supply of vitamins is in normal circumstances guaranteed, and only 
in abnormal circumstances is any corrective necessary. It has been 
indisputably proved that a freely selected mixed diet as customary 
in Austria contains, as a rule, all the necessary substances in quite 
sufficient quantity to meet the real requirements in vitamins. Valuable 
constituents of a complete diet, such as fruit, vegetables and black 
bread, are always available in the market, and anyone who has the 
requisite means can procure them. 

These general questions have been studied by the Salzburg Provincial 
Administration, which considers that, in Austria, measures to improve 
the dietary of individual groups only would by no means solve the 
general problem. This problem is, in fact, so closely linked up with the 
economic circumstances of the State that it can even be regarded as 
reflecting the economic situation. The proper nutrition of the population 
can therefore only be expected when a State's economic situation is in 
perfect order, when industrial and wage-earning conditions are normal 
and unemployment in the State only affects the percentage which 
experience shows to be unavoidable even when economic conditions 
are absolutely normal. 

Other vital conditions may be equally important. In this connection, 
reference may be made here to the extremely impressive reports of the 
Carinthian Provincial Administration, which throw a vivid light on 
the hardships of the life of mountain peasants from their youth up, 
and especially the children. 

Conditions in Carinthia. 

In this province, under the " Winter Aid " and Youth Welfare schemes, 
efforts have been made in recent years to help mothers and infants, 
schoolchildren and unemployed breadwinners, chiefly those no longer 
entitled to relief. The most comprehensive assistance, designed to ensure 
that the needy section of the population is provided, in particular, 
with the necessary food, is that given by the " Winter Aid " fund. 
Out of a total population of 407,145, 21,995 persons were brought under 
this scheme of assistance between October ist, 1934, and September 
30th, 1935. All these persons lacked even the bare necessaries of food. 
For the most part, they consisted of large families of the unemployed, 
and persons no longer entitled to relief. These necessitous persons 
were, under the auspices of the Federal, provincial and communal 
" Winter Aid " schemes, supplied with foodstuffs, chiefly meat, also 



12 

sausages, milk and cheese, and, to a smaller extent, with money and 
fuel, to a total value of 997,517 schillings. Apart from this relief, orders 
for the issue of foodstuffs to expectant mothers and women in childbirth 
were also issued by the Maternity and Infant Welfare Centres of the 
Provincial Youth Office. 

In recent years, the provincial administration in Carinthia has devoted 
special attention, particularly in mountain district schools, to 
encouraging the introduction and development of midday meals and 
soup-kitchens in schools. In 1933, for instance, only 35,165 out of 
75,079 schoolchildren in Carinthia received a hot midday meal ; of 
the remaining children, 22,306 had no hot midday meal, 3,601 no 
midday meal at all, and the other children had only an insufficient meal. 
The reason for such defective feeding of schoolchildren is, partly, the 
really serious distress prevalent among peasants in the mountains and 
unemployed lumbermen and, partly also, the remoteness of country 
schools. In 1933, only 22,985 of the above total school population of 
Carinthia lived near the school itself ; 20,770 children had an hour's 
journey to and from school, 13,779 one to two hours' journey, 5,103 up 
to three hours, 1,436 four hours and 530 a journey of over four hours 
(there and back). The provincial authorities endeavoured to obviate 
the resultant danger to the health of the schoolchildren by issuing 
warm clothing and footwear to specially necessitous cases and by 
promoting arrangements for school meals and soup-kitchens. 

In the educational year 1934-35, sixty schools in the province had 
feeding-schemes. Under these schemes, altogether 278,140 rations 
(soup, milk-dishes, milk, cocoa, etc., and one slice of bread each) were 
issued free to needy children. 

Conditions in Other Provinces. 

According to reports from the Innsbruck Municipal Health Authority, 
there are still many children who come to school in the morning without 
breakfast. In previous years, milk was served to schoolchildren during 
intervals between lessons, either free or for payment, at all Innsbruck 
schools. Since the school year 1934-35, the free supply of milk has had 
to be stopped almost entirely, and even the consumption of paid school 
milk has greatly decreased. 

In the food of larger sections of the population in Styria, a general 
shortage of fats and albumen is noticeable, as, owing to the rise in 
prices, these constituents cannot always be purchased. On the other 
hand, the population seems to be fairly well supplied with vegetables. 

There are in Styria so-called labour camps for nursing mothers where 
women who would otherwise be obliged to return to heavy work within 
a short period after childbirth are maintained for a time and are occupied 
on lighter tasks. 

In connection with the organisation of morning meals for children, 
many local group-leaders and school authorities in rural communes 



— 23 — 

have complained of the difficulty of bringing the poorest of the poor 
children into this work. In the country, it is often impossible to tell 
from the children's dress or other outward signs which homes are the 
poorest. The greatest care had therefore to be taken not to give children 
the impression that some of their number are being preferentially 
treated. For instance, on grounds of upbringing, a cup of cocoa should 
not be offered to a group of quite poor children, because even the children 
of somewhat better-off parents in the same school receive only a plain 
country breakfast at home. Country children often appreciate a cup 
of cocoa or a roll and butter much more than their ordinary morning 
meal. If everyone were given cocoa or white bread with butter or cheese, 
the quite poor children would in many places be distinctly better off 
than the less needy children, who could not be admitted to its benefits. 
Considerations such as these are universally heeded. Thus, poor families 
with numerous children are frequently given vouchers for obtaining 
foodstuffs, by which means assistance can be offered without reacting 
unfavourably on their upbringing. 

Belgium. 

In Belgium, according to a study of consumption indices from 1897 
to 1933, ^ made by M. Dupriez and M. Borboux, the consumption of 
wheat has declined relatively to that of the last pre-war years. This 
is the inevitable corollary of the increased consumption noticeable 
in most of the more expensive products. 

Except for coffee, the demand for groceries has risen, but very 
unequally. The rise since 1928 has been unusually rapid. The tremendous 
fall in the price of colonialproducehasobviously proved a great stimulus 
to consumption. 

The consumption of exotic fruit has been going up by leaps and 
bounds since 1927. The development of the trade in oranges, and 
especially in bananas, has been extraordinary, the volume of the latter 
increasing sixfold in the course of a few years. This growth in the sale 
of exotic fruit has a considerable effect upon the nature and variety 
of the dietary. In the case of meat, the general trend of the indices is 
regular, but this general appearance conceals important changes in 
regard to the kind of meat consumed. The replacement of beef by 
pork may be noted. In 1932, however, a strong reaction set in. Cost 
price and sale price respectively play a considerable part in these 
variations. 

No progress is recorded in the beverage group, which means that, 
allowing for the increase of the population, there has, in effect, been a 
fall in consumption. 

To sum up, the tendency towards the diversification of the foods 
consumed is obvious. Groceries are highly popular, while the 
consumption of bread is declining. 



'Bulletin oj the Institute oj Economic Science of the Louvain University. 



— 24 — 

As regards other foodstuffs, indices are lacking for farm produce — 
butter, milk, eggs — which are all home-produced, as well as for home- 
grown vegetables and fruit. One might wonder whether there is not a 
fall in the consumption of these unrecorded items. This does not appear 
to be the case. It is, in fact, generally held that the home consumption 
of eggs has definitely increased. Similarly, it would be contrary to all 
past experience for the sale of butter to decline in favour of margarine 
during a period of marked price depreciation. Finally, it is not to be 
supposed that, with the low price-levels at present prevailing, vegetables 
and fruit will be neglected, considering that vast supplies have been 
thrown on the market owing to the restrictions placed on foreign trade. 
It would appear that the consumption of potatoes has fallen sharply ; 
but what the rising indices indicate is precisely a displacement of 
consumption from the commoner kinds to the more varied and 
comparatively expensive kinds of food. 

United Kingdom. 

The official attitude towards the problems of nutrition and public 
health in England and Wales may be illustrated from the last report 
which was issued by Sir George Newman as Chief Medical Officer of 
the Ministry of Health, reviewing the situation in 1933. 

" Starvation is not doubt extremely rare in England, yet, although 
the population as a whole is obviously much better nourished than 
in former daj'S, there can be no doubt that many people suffer by 
starving the body of certain constituents of a wholesome and sufficient 
dietary. The evidence of this is indisputable, and can be witnessed 
b}- all men who see cases of undernourishment, of anaemia, of rickets 
or of dental decay. The availability and cheapness of certain articles 
of food is, of course, partly responsible for their wide consumption 
as compared with proteins, animal fat and fresh fruit and vegetables. 

" The effects of inadequate ingestion of single food constituents 
would depend on the role played by the particular food factor in the 
living body. The individual constituents which are most likely, 
so far as our knowledge goes, to be deficient in human diets in this 
country are protein of high biological value, calcium, iron, and the 
essential vitamins A and D. There is, however, good reason to believe 
that deficiencies are rarely single, and the manifestations of human 
malnutrition are generall}^ a combination of the effects of deficiencies 
in two or more food factors." 

On the other hand, attention is directed to the difficulty of isolating 
the effects of food deficiencies from those resulting from other factors 
and a danger in attributing to malnutrition conditions which have their 
origin in composite causes : 

" The effects of industrial depression on populations fall into two 
broad categories — material and psychological ; and, of the two. 



— 25 — 

the latter is perhaps the more serious. Lack of money, might, of course, 
lead to malnutrition, but so also might a lowering of parental 
efficiency. From their numerous studies of diet and social conditions 
amongst different classes extending over several years, Paton, 
Cathcart and their colleagues were not able to find any constant 
relation between family income and health ; but they did find a 
fairly definite positive correlation between health and parental 
efficiency ; and, since local authorities have the facilities for free 
distribution of food to necessitous people, it would seem that parental 
inefficiency may manifest itself in unwise spending of money, the choice 
of improper and badly cooked food, or in excessive wastage of food 
and other commodities, or it may be reflected in the inadequate 
general care and cleanliness of the children. In no respect is parental 
control of greater importance to the child than in the insistence 
on adequate and regular hours of sleep." 

The problem of under-nourishment in young children is a special 
one which has natvirally been the subject of continuous study : 

" Since the early days of school medical work, more than thirty 
years ago, we have known of a national problem of child malnutrition, 
and, since 1910, of its acuteness among children below school age . . . 
In 1 910, it was stated that ' defective nutrition stands in the forefront 
as the most important of all the physical defects from which school- 
children suffer ' . . . 

Happil}', as the result of various forms of public action (including 
school-feeding and the provision of milk to the babies at the Child 
Welfare Centres), the percentage of ' malnutrition ' among entrants 
and elder children has fallen to a quarter or less of the earlier incidence. 
In 1910, London recorded 11%, which in 1933 had fallen to less than 
I %. The very standard of examination for nutrition, like the standard 
of cleanliness, has risen bej'-ond recognition." 

On the other hand, an enquiry carried out in 1934 t>y the regional 
medical staff into the effects of unemployment upon health led to 
indecisive conclusions, although, in sixteen areas out of sixty-six, 
substantial ill-effects were reported ; 

The evidence is that malnutrition is not a prominent feature, 
nor that it is widespread or increasing. It is chiefly reported from the 
most depressed area — e.g., the Tyneside and other dockyard areas 
on the north-eastern seaboard ; but even in these areas it does not 
appear to be a common condition effecting more than a small 
proportion of the adult population, whilst its almost total absence 
is a noteworthy and encouraging feature of the reports from South 
Wales. With the exception of one of the sixty-six replies, there is 
no indication of any increase in the prevalence of malnutrition during 
the past year, and the importance attaching to that one reply is 
qualified by the fact that the writer is not prepared to attribute the 
malnutrition to unemployment." 



— 26 — 

The final conclusions of the review point to steady improvement 
in the nutritional and other habits affecting the popular health of 
England and Wales : 

" The reason why the nutritional condition of the people is better 
than it used to be is due {a) to their more physiological living (fresh 
air, exercise, rest, cleanliness, clothing, common sense and sobriety), 
which gives them a body which functions properly and possesses and 
circulates a healthy and oxygenated blood, and (b) to the improvement 
in the variety and content of their dietary, and to the greater 
availability of its essential constituents. The modern organisation 
of transport by land and sea, which brings food promptly and 
regularly to our shores from all parts of the world, has modified 
our former insular diet, and people are becoming accustomed to the 
advantages of a mixed and variegated diet. Having little or no 
interest in doctrines and theories concerning " proteins ", " calories ", 
or "vitamins", they prefer food which they like and which suits 
them, and, happily, they are learning to like the " protective foods " 
— milk, eggs, fish, fruit and fresh vegetables. Further, the purchasing 
power of wages increased in 1933 ; our food supply is becoming 
cheaper, more available and more varied ; and official returns indicate 
substantially increased expenditure upon, and increased consumption 
of, food (including an enormously increased consumption of oranges, 
apples, bananas, vegetables, eggs, fish and dairy products). Thus, 
for more than twenty years the nutrition of the people has been steadily 
improving, in response to changing habits and desire, to extending 
commercial facilities and to economic availability." 

As noted in the foregoing survey, there has been in the United Kingdom 
a notable increase in the annual consumption of certain foodstuffs as 
compared with the years before the war. According to estimates of 
the Market Supply Committee for current consumption per head of 
population as compared with authoritative estimates for earlier years, 
the increase has been as follows : 

Estimated Annual Consumption {in lb.) per Head in the United Kingdom. 

1909-1913 1924-1928 1934 1934 percentage of 

1909-1913 

Fruit 61 91 115 188 

Vegetables (other than 

potatoes) 60 78 98 164 

Butter 16 16 25 157 

Eggs (in numbers) . . 104 120 152 146 

Cheese 7 g 10 143 

Margarine 6 12 8 133 

Sugar 79 87 94 119 

Meat 135 134 143 106 

Potatoes 208 194 210 loi 

Wheat flour 211 198 197 93 



-- 27 — 

It will be observed that the increase is most marked in relation to 
some of the " protective " foodstuffs, whereas wheat flour, meat and 
potatoes are comparatively stationary. In several cases, the advance 
recorded in the last decade is remarkable. On the other hand, while 
it is difficult to give strictly comparable figures for milk consumption, 
the evidence suggests that there has been, as compared with pre-war 
years, a slight falling-off in the consumption per head of liquid milk 
and rapid growth in the consumption of condensed milk, leaving the 
aggregate unchanged. The average consumption of milk per head is 
estimated as half a pint per day or under. Butter consumption has 
expanded fast. 

Bulgaria. 

Like most countries, Bulgaria has been hard hit by the general 
economic depression and by the crisis in agricultural production in 
particular. But, apart from the fact that any economic crisis, by reducing 
the income of the individual, exercices an unfavourable effect on the 
dietary of a nation, other causes independent of the present crisis make 
it impossible for the masses in Bulgaria to obtain a rational and adequate 
dietary, either from the point of view both of quality or from that of 
nutritive value. The following are the principal of these causes : 

(i) Ignorance of the Bulgarian population as a whole as to the 
importance of nutrition from the standpoint of health and working 
capacity ; 

(2) The large number of religious fast days, when by tradition 
the Bulgarian people have a very plain diet containing practically 
no fats or albumins ; 

(3) The unequal distribution of crops in the various parts of 
the country, which makes it necessary for the inhabitants of the 
non-fertile mountain regions to pursue forms of agriculture from which 
they obtain only products of inferior quality and quantity. 

As the result of enquiries and researches carried out by the Hygiene 
and Chemistry Institutes of the Sofia Medical Faculty and by the 
Services of the Public Health Directorate, the dietary of the Bulgarian 
people, and particularly of the rural population, was found to be 
inadequate and defective. This faulty nutrition has a deplorable effect 
on the working capacity of the people and on their health, particularly 
in the case of children. 

Czechosloyakia. 

The Effects of Unemployment on Nutrition. 

In Czechoslovakia, acocrding to studies made by Dr L. Feierabend, 
certain fundamental changes in nutrition have been brought about by 
unemployment. The data relating to the nutrition of the unemployed 



— 28 — 

have nowhere been compiled in the manner which the problem demands. 
They only relate, indeed, to a proportion of the total number of 
unemployed fathers of families and cannot therefore be regarded as 
of general application. It may, nevertheless, be of interest to describe 
the changes in nutrition which have latterly been observed in 
Czechoslovakia. To compare the influence of unemployment on the 
fall in the standard of nutrition, it is necessary to consider the average 
for the country as a whole and see how it differs from that of the families 
of unemployed. From this difference it will be possible to draw 
conclusions regarding the losses sustained by the national economy 
as the result of under-consumption. 

The observations carried out by the Social Institute of the 
Czechoslovak Republic may be taken as a basis. Unfortunately, the 
data collected relate to a relatively small number of unemployed families 
and the observations only relate to a period of four consecutive weeks 
(February). This period has been used as the basis of an estimate 
for a period of fifty-two weeks. 

Where reference is made to consumption among the unemployed, 
this means among families assisted by the State's measures of food 
distribution. The consumption of families has also been traced in 
connection with the length of the period of unemployment and 
consumption in families subsidised in other ways. It is more convenient 
for the purposes of this enquiry to use data relating only to the 
consumption of unemployed families in receipt of food vouchers, as 
this is the most general form of relief and that enjoyed by the majority 
of the unemployed, and to limit the enquiry to the articles most widely 
consumed. 

Losses through Under-consumption on the part of 554,000 Unemployed 
in 1932 and 738,000 Unemployed in 1933. 



Under-consumption of : 

Beef 

Pork 

Pork fat 

Sugar 

Wheaten flour 

Beer 

Total 

The above figures of the losses sustained by the national economy 
are based on the number of fathers of families. We should not be far 
wrong in estimating the losses caused by under-consumption on the 
part of all the unemployed in Czechoslovakia in 1932, reckoning each 
family as consisting, on an average, of four members, at approximately 



1934 

CzechosIo\'ak 


1933 
Czechoslovak 


crowns 


crowns 


27,962,000 


34,433,000 


20,951,000 


26,077,000 


33,810,000 


41,695.000 


7,284,000 


9,805,000 


6,608,000 


22,125,000 


4,586,000 


7,612,000 


111,201,000 


141,747,000 



29 — 



445 niillion Czechoslovak crowns, and in 1933 at 564 million Czechoslovak 
crowns. 

The national economic loss is in reality much greater. In so far as 
beer and sugar are concerned, the reduced consumption of coal and 
other adjuncts to manufacture and incidental expenses must also be 
taken into consideration. The unemployed, however, have reduced 
their consumption, not merely of the above-mentioned commodities, 
but also of all other commodities, as is shown by the following table : 

Anmial Consumption of the Families observed. 



Beef 

Pork 

Veal 

Mutton 

Smoked meat . . . 
Horse-fiesh .... 

Poultry 

Game 

Porkbutchers' wares 

Pork fat 

Butter 

Lard 

Bacon 

Artificial fats .... 

Milk 

Eggs ........ 

Flour , 

Flour pastes . . . . , 

Bread , 

Confectionery . . . . 

Meal 

Rice 

Potatoes 

Leguminous vegetables. 
Stewed prunes . . . . 

Sugar 

Roasted coffee . . . . 
Malted coffee . . . . 

Chicory 

Salt 

Beer 

Wine 

Rum . 

Other beverages . . . 







During 


During 








employment 


unemployment 




f or • — 




m 1931 


m 1932 


percentage 


kg. 


II. 31 


5.72 


— 


49-4 


it 


10.66 


6.89 




35-4 






1.82 


— 




100. 






0.91 


0.52 




42.9 






2.99 


2-34 




21.7 






0.39 


0.52 


+ 


79-3 






2.21 


— 




100. 






1. 17 


1.04 




II. I 






8.58 


6.50 




24.2 






II. 31 


5.89 




47-1 






4.03 


3.12 




22.6 






0.52 


1.56 


+ 


300.0 






0.78 


0.26 




66.7 






4.81 


5.85 


+ 


21. 6 


litres 


178.23 


170.82 




4-2 


number 


146.64 


99-97 




31-8 


kg. 


67.47 


52-91 




21.6 


) > 


0-39 






100. 


1 1 


109.33 


113-49 


1 


3-8 


9 f 


15-34 


7.41 




51.7 


i J 


4.42 


5-07 


+ 


14.7 


> 1 


5.85 


5.33 




8.9 


f > 


147.68 


181. 61 


+ 


23.0 


y 1 


3-51 


3-38 




3-7 


> > 


2.73 


0.52 




80.9 


7 t 


29.12 


11.83 




59-4 


> r 


0.52 


0.52 






t f 


5.33 


4.03 




24.4 


r 9 


2.25 


2.21 




1.8 


> y 


4.16 


7.41 


+ 


78.1 


litres 


44.20 


II. 31 




74-4 


> > 


0.26 







100. 


>> 


0.65 


0.65 








i» 


0.26 


0.26 







_ 30 — 

According to the above table, there has been an increase in 
consumption among the unemployed of the following articles : horse- 
meat, lard, artificial fats, salt, potatoes and, to a slight extent, meal. 
The consumption of bread has increased almost imperceptibly. The 
consumption of all other articles of food has decreased, more particularly 
wine, poultry, stewed prunes, beer, bacon, sugar, confectionery, etc. 

Under-consumption decreases all possibility of further production 
and also reduces the chance of renewed employment. It is under- 
consumption which is the root cause of the continued depression. To 
break the vicious circle, two possibilities are open : increase consumption 
and thus promote the employment of labour, or else increase employment 
and thus stimulate consumption, and, as consumption increases, bring a 
greater and greater number of the unemployed into the process of 
production. These two methods have been employed in all countries. 
The grants made to the unemployed increase consumption, but they 
have no other economic effects ; new wealth is not created. The other 
method — that is to say, the increase of employment by so-called 
productive relief — is much more profitable, as, at the same time, 
new wealth is created through the construction of buildings, streets 
and roads, the improvement of waterways, etc. In the majority of 
cases, the unemployed are paid a wage in return for their labour. This 
practice does not, however, guarantee that consumption will increase 
to the desired extent. To remedy this state of affairs even partially, 
a proportion of the wages might possibly be paid in kind (foodstuffs). 
The advantage of such a proceeding would be that the necessary 
foodstuffs could be bought in large quantities at lower prices and that 
the grants in kind might thus be increased in quantity. 

Sub-Carpathian Russia. 

Special attention has been devoted to nutrition problems in Sub- 
Carpathian Russia, which is chiefly agricultural, but is still being 
developed on primitive lines. 

There is overproduction of meat, wine and fruit, but a serious shortage 
of farinaceous products ; and, even with a normal harvest, as much 
as 4,000 wagon-loads of cereals have to be imported. Maize, the 
traditional and almost exclusive diet of the population, is the chief 
farinaceous product. It covers more than half of the arable soil in 
Sub-Carpathian Russia. 

The question has been under consideration for some years of replacing 
part at least of the maize consumption by other native cereals. Much 
propaganda is carried on to popularise rye and nutritive bread ; it 
will be some time, however, before this meets with success. The people 
in the uplands prefer maize, one reason being that maize meslin, which 
is used to make porridge (polenta, tokan), leaves no waste and can be 
ground as required in small quantities by hand. Barley, on the contrary, 
has to be ground in large quantities at the mill, often situated at a 
distance, and is used only for breadmaking. 



— 31 — 

Special attention is being devoted to the question of replacing maize 
to some extent by barley which, after being converted into groats 
might be substituted in various forms for maize meslin, in making 
porridge. The results, however, have not been very satisfactory. 

By reason of its limited financial resources, the population of Sub- 
Carpathian Russia, 90% of which consists of farmers, is reduced to 
purchasing products of the soil and cereals ; for the people have only 
their cottages, a little grazing-land and a few domestic animals. 
For the rest, they are obliged to earn their living by forestry and other 
occupations. That is why special nutrition measures have been 
instituted in the country during the last few years. The object is to 
supply the population with the maize which they require, at reasonable 
prices, within reach of all, these prices being officially fixed and uniform 
throughout the country, whatever the distance. These measures, 
organised by the competent authorities, have proved satisfactory. 
Persons unable to earn their living and without other sources of income 
are given what maize they require free of charge. 

Finland. 

The Finnish people have won a worldwide reputation through their 
successes in the field of sport, but their powers of endurance in the toil 
of daily life are no less celebrated. The general physical standard must 
therefore be regarded as very high. None the less, expecially among 
the poorer classes, there is a good deal of physical debility as well as 
defects and social diseases which are directly or indirectly responsible 
for a considerable reduction of efficiency. 

One of the most serious difficulties encountered in Finland is under- 
nourishment among the poorer classes. There are, for example, a 
considerable number of pregnant women who do not receive sufficient 
food or a diet suited to their condition. Moreover, especially in industry, 
where women are being more and more freely employed, under- 
nourishment makes them less able to produce healthy children ; indeed, 
many such women die prematurely. Infant mortality, too, is still very 
high in Finland owing to defective nutrition. It has also been shown 
that the prevalent dental diseases are mainly due to dietetic deficiencies. 
A great many children, again, are neither adequately nor suitably fed, with 
the result that such diseases as rickets, which has disastrous effects, 
not only on the child's physical condition, but also on his mental powers, 
and tuberculosis in its various forms, anaemia and diseases of the digestive 
organs, are widespread. A continually increasing amount is being spent 
b}^ the Government, the communes, and the children's parents on the 
prevention and treatment of these diseases — not to mention the 
consequent waste of labour and educational expenses. 

One of the results of these nutritional deficiencies is that, directly 
or indirectly, some 21% of the young men who present themselves at 



— 32 — 

army recruiting offices have to be rejected. Manj' students also have to 
break off their studies or pursue them less vigorously. 

All these circumstances involve a considerable waste of vital force 
in a small nation, quite apart from the fact that those who are fit to 
work have to spend an unnecessarily large proportion of their earnings 
on keeping and feeding those who are unfit to work or unable fully 
to earn their living. 

The primary cause of this position in regard to the nutrition of the 
greater part of the people is that the diet is not sviitable in its constituents, 
and is not adjusted to differences in age, health, occupation and natural 
conditions. The great majority of the people still belong to a class 
earning very low wages, so that for financial reasons thay have to be 
satisfied with a diet which is insufficient in quantity and often too 
monotonous. 



France. 



Principal Foodstuffs. 

As far as may be judged from the statistics, which are very incomplete, 
it would appear that the people of France are consuming less bread 
and cereal foods and less meat than formerly. On the other hand, 
they are consuming more milk products, butter and cheese, fresh 
vegetables and fruit, and even more fresh fish. 

It is a fact generally accepted on the strength of data available from 
the past that, at the end of the nineteenth century, the average 
Frenchman consumed about 250 kilogrammes of bread per year ; from 
the investigations carried out in 1934 by the Societe scientifique d'hygiene 
alimentaire et d'alimentation rationnelle, it would appear that, in 
Paris, the average per capita consumption scarcely exceeds 120 kilo- 
grammes of bread each year. It may be assumed that the quantity 
of bread consumed by the rural population is greater ; nevertheless, 
the decline in the general consumption of bread has been so marked 
that it may be regarded as having fallen by at least 25% since the 
beginning of the century. 

During the second half of the last century, the consumption of meat 
had very greatly increased. According to the estimates of the Office 
national de renseignements agricoles, it amounted, round about i860, 
to 1,200,000 tons, and to more than 2,000,000 tpns round about 1910, 
or averages of 26 and 50 kilogrammes respectively per head of population, 
half of those quantitites consisting of beef. 

Since the war, meat consumption has varied considerably. After 
the end of the war, there was a marked increase in the consumption 
of butcher's meat in the country districts, whereas, in the cities, 
consumption appeared to be on the decline. Taken as a whole, therefore, 
consumption was more or less stable. There would, however, appear 



Beef 


Mutton Total, including 
horse-flesh 
(Thousands of tons) 


Pork 


888 


96 




1,032 


383 


866 


106 




1,024 


360 


794 


107 




950 


372 


777 


106 




939 


376 


858 


IIO 




1,023 


334 


917 


109 




1,077 


314 


908 


114 




1,064 


310 


849 


114 




1,003 


296 



— 33 — 

to have been a slight increase since 1933, bringing consumption up to 
the level of the years 1927 and 1928. 

Generally speaking, consumption of meat does not appear to have 
decreased as the result of the depression. Taking advantage of the fall 
in retail prices, the urban consumer has not only maintained but increased 
his consumption, which is greater than in the years of prosperity. 

On the basis of the statistics compiled by the Association generale 
des producteurs de viande, the Bulletin de la Confederation nationale 
du commerce et des industries de l' alimentation (April 1935) gives the 
following table : 



1934 

1933 

1932 

1931 

1930 

1929 

1928 

1927 

As, however, the population of France has increased by approximately 
two millions since 191 3, the consumption of meat may be regarded 
as having slightly decreased in the last twenty years — a fact which 
would, to some extent, explain the disequilibrium between supply and 
demand on the national market. 

The consumption of fresh fish shows marked progress, although 
fish is of only secondary importance in the diet of a great part of the 
people of France. 

The increase in the consumption of fish must be due to improved 
means of communication and improved organisation of the fishing 
industry. The amount of French and foreign fish supplied to consumers 
in France in 1913 was estimated at 230 million kilogrammes. In 1934, 
despite a decline in imports and an increase of 25% in exports, the 
corresponding figure was 313 million kilogrammes, which represents 
an increase of 36% in twenty years. 

The consumption of fish could be still further increased ; the average 
consumption per head per annum is no more than 7 kilogrammes, 
or 135 grammes per week. Furthermore, this average is only reached 
through the inclusion of certain large towns and coastal regions ; at 
Rouen, for example, according to M. Altazin, President of the Federation 
nationale des commergants en poisson, the average consumption is 
41.5 kilogrammes ; at Nantes, 30 kilogrammes ; at Paris (where the 
quantities received at the halles rose from 52 million kilogrammes in 
1913 to 62 millions in 1930), 15 kilogrammes. 

Appreciable progress may be observed in the consumption of milk 
products. 



— 34 — 

In 1913, the amount of French-produced milk supplied to consumers 
did not exceed 128 million hectolitres ; in 1934, according to the 
estimates of the Confederation generale des producteurs de lait, it must 
have risen to 150 million hectolitres. During that period, the amount 
of milk for consumption as such increased by 4 million hectolitres, 
that of milk for butter-making by 7 million hectolitres, and that of milk 
for cheese-making by 6 million hectolitres. 

According to M. Dupont d'Isigny, the per capita consumption of 
butter in France rose from 3 kilogrammes in 1913 to 5.16 kilogrammes 
in 1 93 1. Even assuming a fall in consumption as a result of the 
depression, progress as compared with the pre-war period would still 
be very marked. 

It is important to note that, in France, the consumption of margarine 
and similar products has always been very low, scarcely exceeding an 
average of 200,000 quintals, as compared with 2 million quintals of 
butter. The question of margarine has given rise to a great deal of very 
interesting controversy, into the details of which, however, it is impossible 
to enter. So far, margarine has escaped the thunders of Parliament, 
because it uses up almost the whole of the nation's edible suet, so that 
the prohibition of margarine would have a very serious effect upon 
live-stock prices. 

Cheese production would also appear to be on the increase. In 1934, 
that industry used 24 million hectolitres of milk, as against 20 millions 
in 1931, 18.6 millions in 1928 and 17.5 millions a few years earlier. 

With its consumption averages of 80 litres of milk per head per year, 
5 kilogrammes of butter and 6 kilograinmes of cheese, France no doubt 
remains very far behind certain other European countries. ^ These 
figures, however, indicate remarkable progress in a relatively short 
time. The consumption of milk and butter might, nevertheless, be still 
further increased without much difficulty. 



' Compare the figures published by the Federation of the Netherlands Milk Industry showing consumption 
per head per annum in the following fifteen countries during 1935 : 



France . 
Germany 
England 
.\ustralia 
Austria . 
Belgium . 
Canada . 
Denmark 
United States 
Finland . . 
Italy . . . 
Norway . . 
Netherlands 
Sweden . . 
Switzerland 



Litres of milk 
per day 


Kilogrammes of 
butter per annum 


Kilogrammes of 
cheese per annum 


0.22 


4-9 


6.1 


0.41 


7.9 


4.7 


0.24 


10.7 


4-3 


0.22 


12.7 


1.8 


0.57 


2.8 


1.5 


0.26 


II. 


30 


0.66 


13.8 


1.5 


0.72 


9.6 


5-9 


. 60 — . 80 


8.1 


2.0 


1.40 


9.5 


1-4 


0.13 


1.2 


5-5 


0.63 


6.0 


4.8 


0.30 — 0.40 


5-7 


7.2 


0.80 


7.2 


5-5 


0.60 — 1. 00 


6.2 


10.4 



— 35 — 

It must be noted that 400,000 pots of yoghourt — which was scarcely 
known in France twenty years ago — are supplied in Paris each day, 
and consumption is constantly increasing. " Champagne-milk " (full- 
cream milk aerated with carbonic acid, with a small percentage of fruit 
juice added) is now available for those who do not like ordinary milk, 
and was consumed in immense quantitites during the course of last 
summer. 

The consumption of fresh fruit has developed very rapidly. Ten 
years ago, the amount of table grapes consumed was only about 750,000 
quintals ; in 1929, it had already risen above a million quintals ; while 
in 1934, which was an exceptional year, production exceeded 2,100,000 
quintals. It may be assumed that the amount consumed in 1935 exceeded 
1.5 million quintals, which would mean that, during the last ten years, 
consumption has doubled. 

As regards other fresh fruit, pre-war consumption would appear 
to have fluctuated between 3 and 4 million quintals. In 1935, it is believed 
to have exceeded 10 million quintals, which figure is approximately 
the average for the years 1930 to 1935. 

Much more fruit is being eaten. According to the Confederation 
nationale des industries d'alimentation, the consumption of fresh fruit 
in France has increased by more than a third, as compared with the 
period before the war. As regards Mediterranean and colonial citrous 
fruits, consumption has more than doubled, while there has been an 
enormous increase in the case of bananas and other exotic fruits. The 
consumption of fruit per head of population was estimated at 31.5 
kilogrammes for 1933, and 38.3 kilogrammes for 1934, whereas the 
pre-war average was only 20 to 25 kilogrammes. Thus, the French 
figures now almost approximate to the English figures, which were 
40 kilogrammes for 1933, and 43 kilogrammes for 1934. 

The quantities of fruit and vegetables received at the Paris halles, 
which in 191 3 amounted to 303 million kilogrammes, are now double 
that amount — 630 millions in 1929 and 677 millions in 1930. 

The increase in the consumption of fruit is unquestionably due to 
new food habits encouraged by the medical profession, but it is also 
to be attributed to the importation of constantly increasing quantities 
of colonial fruits, and more particularly citrous fruits. The quantities 
of fresh fruit imported into France rose from 2 million quintals in 191 3 
to 6 million in 1935, of which citrous fruits accounted for 1,228,000 and 
3 million quintals respectively. In general, the statistical material 
points to the conclusion that the consumption of fresh table fruit has 
increased two and a half times in the last twenty years. 

As regards the consumption of fresh green vegetables, early vegetables 
and potatoes, reliable data is not available. Consumption would appear 
to have remained at its former level. Greater quantities of French 
beans appear to be eaten ; above all, there has been a very great increase 
in the variety of vegetables consumed. In most parts of the country, 
tomatoes used only to be cultivated by professional gardeners ; the 



— 36 — 

peasant was content with potatoes, cabbages, carrots and lettuce. 
France now imports 40 million francs' worth of endives from Belgium, 
and there has been a phenomenal extension in the cultivation of this 
vegetable in the north of France. The varieties of canned vegetables 
are now much more numerous. 

Since 1804, when Nicolas Appert, a humble cook in the Rue des 
Lombards in Paris, introduced a new process of preserving food by heat, 
the preserving industry has made enormous strides in France. At the 
present day, approximately 30,000 million cans of preserved foodstuffs 
are consumed annually in all parts of the world. 

To give an idea of the quantities of tomatoes preserved, it is enough 
to say that, in France alone, approximately 100 million kilogrammes are 
canned each year. A single automatic canning-machine seals from two 
to three thousand cans per hour. There are days when some factories 
handle 200,000 kilogrammes of fresh tomatoes. 

As regards green peas, a single machine is capable of shelling as 
much as 5,000 kilogrammes per hour without crushing or damaging 
the peas. 

Preserved fruits also play a highly important part in nutrition. 

Variety and Improvement : Changing Habits. 

From the foregoing facts, it may be concluded that, in the space 
of little more than a generation, appreciable changes have taken place 
in the diet of a large part of the population of France. The changes which 
we have noted point to better and more rational nutrition. 

It cannot be denied that the dietary of the masses of the people is 
much more varied than before the war. There is abundant proof of 
this. In 1 91 3, the catalogues of the railway stores departments consisted 
of one page ; they now consist of twenty-five pages and include articles 
the prices of which customers formerly thought prohibitive. Perusal 
of the books of these departments before the war and to-day lead to 
the same general conclusions in regard to the food consumption of 
railway workers as those drawn from other available statistics and 
observations. 

The Ministerial Decree of September ist, 1853, regarding the feeding 
of secondary-school pupils, which is still in force, stipulated that " boiled 
beef shall not be served for lunch more than three times a week " ; 
if any head of a school to-day allowed boiled beef to be served three times 
a week it would be certain to give rise to criticism and unpleasantness. 
Pot-au-feu (roughly, hot-pot) has completely fallen from favour, as has 
rago-Cit (stew) ; according to the administrative rules issued in 1934, 
the latter are to be " exceptional " in lycees. 

Foreign women settling in Paris are struck by the important part 
played by beefsteak or chops in the diet of workers and their families. 
They express surprise at the speed with which Parisian women get 
their cooking done. This is a very far-reaching social change. More 
particularly the woman, whether she is engaged outside the home in 



— 37 — 

remunerative employment — which is frequently the case — or whether 
she prefers to devote herself to other occupations, spends as little time 
as possible in the kitchen. Slow cooking has given way to quick, 
" accelerated " cooking, consisting of hastily prepared roasts or grills. 
There has been lively controversy in the last few years regarding the 
" inferior cuts ", the discarding of which raises the price of meat. 

It is a fact that it is the better and dearer cuts of meat which are 
sought after. People prefer eating less provided that the quality is 
better. The preparation of a pot-au-feu, a ragoUt, a blanquette, or a dish 
with an elaborate sauce, takes hours and requires supervision, seasoning 
and the addition of vegetables requiring long preparation. Current 
preference cannot, however, change the fact that a carcass provides — in 
addition to meat for roasting — a high proportion of inferior cuts for 
which there is no demand, and which have therefore to be sold at 
insufficiently remunerative prices. The loss is made up by the higher 
price of steak : " beefsteak has to be sold at a higher price to bring in 
the money the butcher has lost through the failure of the demand for 
stewing-meat ". 

Senator Beaumont, President of the Senate Committee on Stock- 
Breeding, lays great stress on this " stupidity " of the consumer ; out 
of 200 kilogrammes of beef, there are approximately 3 kilogrammes of 
fillet steak. Everyone wishes to buy fillet at 30 francs a kilogramme, 
whereas stewing meat costs only i franc : " in this way, large quantities 
•of excellent meat become unsaleable ". 

The National Meat Committee notes that " tons of good meat from 
the inferior cuts are sold off at low prices to canning firms ". The lard 
has to be disposed of for industrial use. 

In the same connection, the Bulletin de la Confederation nationale des 
commerces et des industries de V alimentation (September 1935) draws 
attention (on page 18) to the changing tastes of customers in the matter 
of porkbutchers' wares. There is an increasing demand for pork from 
which the fat has been removed and for lean ham. Yet, whether wanted 
or not, there will always be a great deal of fat in pork. Since the purchaser 
will no longer take the fat cuts, the price of the latter falls, and the 
price of those cuts which are in demand shows a corresponding rise. 
As a result, ham, which can be consumed without further preparation, 
is relatively dear. 

Similarly, cod is despised, its place being taken by haddock. Canned 
lobster, which was formerly a great luxury, is becoming more and more 
popular. 

There is a growing desire for hors-d'ceuvre and dessert, a taste which 
has become much more widespread through the growth of the restaurant 
habit. At school, children no longer eat a piece of bread with a stick 
of chocolate to help it down ; as a rule, they bring bread and butter 
with jam. There has been an upward trend in all respects. This is a 
matter of imitation, a social development which has been made possible 
by the extension and improvement of means of transport. 



— 38 — 

That which is true of nutrition is also true of clothing. The corduroy 
trousers which used to be the rule among railway workers have now 
almost entirely disappeared. The vogue of silk stockings is well known. 

The same tendency is even more apparent in the matter of housing, 
which is of capital importance to nutrition. There is an all-too-sweeping 
generalisation : " The workman either eats or drinks ". If he does not 
drink too much, he eats more and is more exacting in regard to his food. 
Now there is less drinking than before the war ; on this, employers 
and employees are all in absolute agreement. People are drinking less, 
and therefore eating better food — much better than before the war. 

Ordinary wine is drunk to a less extent ; similarly, less beer is being 
drunk. The consumption of beer in France has shown a marked falling 
off. From 18,300,000 hectolitres in 1930, it fell to 16,700,000 hectolitres 
in 1934, and to approximately 15,500,000 hectolitres in 1935. "^ The 
miners of the north have forsaken the enormous flagons of beer which 
they were in the habit of drinking on leaving the mine. Less beer 
is being drunk ; above all, fewer aperitifs and alcoholic drinks. 

The cause of this general decline is in the main to be found in the fact 
that less time is spent in public-houses ; the working-classes visit 
these establishments less frequently, and, above all, do not remain 
there as long. 

This is a result of the spread of the cinema, where drinking is not 
allowed ; and also of the development of open-air sports and games. 
Another cause is the development of the wireless, which hire-purchase 
systems make particularly attractive and which keeps the worker 
at home. At the same time, homes have become more comfortable 
and less gloomy. Certain workmen's suburbs, which used to look like 
barracks (or even prisons), look to-day, more particularly in the north 
of France, like small holiday resorts, with neat cottages standing in 
their own gardens. 

From the point of view of the nutrition of the working-classes, the 
importance of environment cannot be exaggerated. The proper 
environment is a separate family home, a cheerful dwelling, where the 
woman can attend to her housekeeping, with gas in the kitchen and 
washing facilities, where the man can read, amuse himself and while 
away his time, and where the children can do their homework. The 
only alternative is the public-house, with porkbutchers' wares for food, 
which, though very dear, are very convenient. 



' In France, the consumption of wine in 1934 was 68 million hectolitres ; the consumption of cidsr, 7 
millions. 

In 1934. the consumption of beer in the following countries was : 

Millions of hectolitres 

United States 50.0 

Germany 36.8 

England 25.4 

France 16.7 

Belgium 13.8 

World total 185.0 



— 39 — 

Thirty years ago, there were many railway labourers at St. Denis 
who drew a daily wage of 5 francs ; they paid 50 centimes for a bed, 
and in winter, when it was dark at 5 o'clock, they used to drink absinthe 
until dinner and bedtime ; their normal allowance would be six absinthes 
at 30 centimes each. The lodging-house keeper used to contrive to put 
off supper as long as possible, by which time they had scarcely any 
further interest in it. 

Lodging-houses of the very worst type abounded — always with a 
bar, through which it was necessary to pass. Nowadays, they are not 
so numerous. Even the bistro (cheap caf6 or public-house) has changed. 
The days of the " Assommoir " are over. In place of the ill-lighted 
zinc counter, which was until recently the rule, the bistro is always 
introducing new attractions and appearances of luxury ; well lit, well 
heated, smart, with imitation mahogany everywhere, his premises now 
cost him from 60,000 to 100,000 francs. 

Our remarks have in the main been confined to conditions in Paris. 
It would appear, however, that, in general, they would also apply to 
the rest of the country, rural districts as well as towns, though allowance 
will have to be made for very great differences as between the various 
districts. 

A detailed enquiry would make it possible to be more specific. 

In Bresse, for example, the peasants lived fifty years ago on a kind 
of maize porridge and milk products ; meat was eaten only once a 
week. In other parts of the country, however, a great deal of meat 
was being eaten even before the war, as pork formed the basis of the 
family diet. Nowadays, in Bresse, people consume much less maize 
and milk products and much more meat. 

The depression has even had the effect of increasing the consumption 
of meat among the peasants, who are unwilling to sell their stock at 
very low prices. Everywhere there has sprung up a highly developed 
system of exchange. Milk is converted into butter and cheese, which 
are sold. Furthermore, transport facilities make it possible to market 
large quantities of milk in the great centres, to which it could not formerly 
have been brought. Before the war, the Paris milk supplies were all 
obtained within a radius of 120 kilometres. To-day, milk is also obtained 
as far afield as Charente, Burgundy and, since the return of the Saar 
to Germany, Moselle. The daily consumption of the Paris market is 
estimated at 1,200,000 litres of milk, which is obtained from about 
twenty French departments. 

Hungary. 

The Hungarian Institute of Public Health made an investigation 
in 1933 covering the whole country, in order to estimate the effect of 
the economic crisis upon public health. The institute reached the 
conclusion in December 1934 that the crisis had caused a reduction in 
the standard of life for all, without distinction of class. Except in the 



— 40 — 

case of the unemploj^ed, however, public health had not, in general, 
been markedly impaired, although certain specialised studies on the 
weight of new-born infants, on the growth of schoolchildren from poorer 
families, and on the spread of dental caries, seemed to point to a measure 
of decadence in the physical condition of the people. 

Italy. 

Improvement in Nutrition. 

According to the data published by the Central Statistical Institute 
on the calorie supplies represented by Italy's food products, the daily 
amount available for an average man was 2,985 calories during the 
pre-war period 1910 to 1914. There has been a material improvement 
in the last few years (in spite of the depression), the figure reached 
being 3,291 calories, which, again, is slightly lower than that of the 
four years preceding the present depression (3,350 calories per day per 
average rnan during the period 1926 to 1930). 

Since the pre-war period, the weight of the products of animal origin 
has increased to such an extent that the increase in the available supplies 
for the latter period as compared with the pre-war period consists 
almost entirely of calories of animal origin, which have risen from 
120,000 per average man per annum to 160,000. A similar improvement 
has taken place in the supplies of proteins, fats and carbohydrates. 

Taking as basis the physiological composition of the " proper ration " 
determined by Bottazzi (100 grammes of proteins, 75 grammes of fatty 
substances, and 540 grammes of carbohydrates), the average ration 
at present available in Italy (108 grammes of proteins, 71 grammes of 
fatty minerals and 537 grammes of carbohydrates) shows only a 
negligible shortage of fats, which, owing to the special conditions of 
the climate, does not give any ground for alarm. 

To conclude this first broad survey reference may be made to a few 
main indices showing the quantitative variations which have occurred 
in the last few years in the supplies of certain food products. It has 
been found that the supplies of wheat flour per head in 1929 to 1933 
(taking 1910-1914 = 100) were 1 14.91 ; the corresponding figure for 
rye flour was 104.65, and those for maize flour and rice were 93.72 
and 92.20 respectively. This decline is explained by the reduction in 
consumption of maize and rice in the agricultural districts (Piedmont, 
Lombardy, Venetia and Emilia), where the rural classes have changed 
over from a monotonous to a more varied diet with greater physiological 
value. 

The increase in foods of animal origin observed above is confirmed 
by the following indices, which, compared with a basic figure of 100 
for the period 1910 to 1914, show still more clearly the evolution which 
has taken place in Italy as regards the consumption of meat. The index 
for beef was 146.93, for mutton and goat's meat 127, for pork 170, and 



— 41 — 

for horsemeat 245. On the other hand, there were declines for salted 
and prepared meats (61.48) and for game and poultry (77.02). But 
these two figures, which seem to indicate a general reduction, are in 
realit}^ due to the fact that the statistics of these products have declined 
on account of the growing tendency of the rural classes to consume these 
products themselves, whereas previously they had considered them as 
luxuries which they sold in the markets in order to obtain money to 
buy other goods and meet more urgent requirements (clothes, medicines, 
doctors' fees, etc.). 

The same improvement in the standard of living of the rural classes 
accounts for the decline in the statistics for marketed eggs (84.30). 

The same series of indices reveals the increase which has occurred 
in the last few years in the supplies of fresh fruit (110.53), citrous fruits 
(143.77) and bananas (300). 

The increase in the food supplies of animal origin has been greatly 
assisted by the development of the fishing industry in Italy, as a result 
of which the index for fresh and frozen fish is 354.55. There has also 
been a considerable increase in the consumption of milk (112.52) and 
natural butter (194.92), which has been subsituted on a constantly 
increasing scale for other fats previously in general use. 

Another point to be noticed is the reduction in alcoholic beverages 
(index, 78.20 for wine, 85.78 for beer and 78.38 for alcohol), showing 
the good effects of the " Dopolavoro " organisation, which, by 
encouraging workers to spend their hours of leisure in sports grounds and 
places of instructive and educational recreation, has largely contributed 
to a reduction in the consumption of these beverages in public premises, 
while developing their consumption in the family, which in the past 
had been too often disturbed and poisoned by the alcoholism of one of 
its members. 

After this general survey, let us see the results of this evolution of 
food conditions in Italy, as revealed by certain indirect indications. 

The death rate clearly shows the contribution made by improved 
nutrition to the gradual and considerable decline in deaths which has 
occurred in the last few yars. As compared with an average of 19 deaths 
per 1,000 inhabitants during the five years 1910 to 1914. the figures 
for the Fascist era are as follows : 1922, 18 ; 1923, 17 ; 1924, 17. i ; 
1925,17.1; 1926,17.2; 1927,16; 1928,16; 1929,16.5; 1930,14.1; 
1931, 14.7; 1932, 14.7; 1933, 13-6; 1934. loi- 

These beneficial results shown by the figures for the last few years 
are confirmed by the progressive reduction in infant mortality during 
the first year of life, which is often due to a defect in the mother's 
nutrition. In 1927, deaths during the first year of life were 120 per 1,000 
live births ; in 1928, 120 ; in 1929, 125 ; in 1930, 106 ; in 1931, 113 ; 
in 1932, no ; in 1933, 100 ; and, in 1934, 95. 

These results of the better conditions of living in general and of better 
nutrition in particular will be appreciated at their true value when it 
is considered that the increase in food supplies available for the national 



— 42 — 

community is largely due to agricultural labour and technique, which, 
with unshakable faith and determination, have obtained and will 
increasingly obtain from the soil of Italy all the vital energy which it 
can supply to feed its numerous and laborious population. This is not 
mere rhetoric, as is shown by the following series of indices regarding 
the total agricultural production of Italy. Taking the production of 
1922 as 100, that of 1929 was 139.3 ; that of 1930, 129.8 ; that of 1931, 
123.4 ; that of 1932, 162.5 ; that of 1933, 147.9; and that of 1934, 153. 

Measures to promote Independence of Outside Supplies. 

The fundamental problem of national independence of outside supplies 
has been faced and completely solved in the case of bread, a staple 
foodstuff for which Italy was previously dependent on other countries. 
The " Wheat Battle " which was inaugurated in 1925 has enabled the 
Italian people to face without anxiety the contingency of all foreign 
wheat supplies being cut off. The wheat harvest in Italy has increased 
as follows since 1920 (in thousands of quintals) : 

1920 38,466 1929 70.795 

1924 46,306 1931 66,520 

1926 65,548 1933 81,252 

1927 53.291 1935 74.500 

Similar action is being taken successfully — particularly in connection 
Avith the present situation — to make the country independent of foreign 
supplies of other foodstuffs. There is, for example, the campaign to 
encourage the consumption of rice, the production of which has very 
considerably increased in Italy, part of the crop being exported. 
Similarly, efforts are being made to induce the public to consume more 
home-grown fruit and vegetables instead of meat, which has hitherto 
had to be imported from abroad. The very satisfactory results obtained 
show the effectiveness of the methods adopted. 

By-products and Substitutes. 

Special attention has recently been paid to the utilisation of by- 
products and food substitutes, the idea being to make full use of the food 
value of agricultural produce and to supply the poor with cheap, 
wholesome food. 

Thus, steps have been taken, or are shortly to be taken, for the 
utilisation of animal fat as seasoning, of oil from the residue of olives, 
of cheese mixed with animal fat and of butter from skimmed milk, etc. 

The measures taken have in no case led to the disappearance or to a 
scarcity of the genuine or choice articles, but have merely added new 
products to those already in the market. 



— 43 — 
Measures to encourage the Consumption of Certain Products. 

Even before the application of sanctions had forced Italy to encourage 
or discourage the consumption of certain products, efforts had been 
made to guide and concentrate consumption on the food products 
which afford Italians greater economical or biological advantages. We 
would mention, for instance, the campaigns to increase the consumption 
of fruit, vegetables, grapes, milk, dairy products, etc. Highly satisfactory 
results have thus been obtained through propaganda and special 
legislative measures (relative to transport, the operation of markets, etc.). 

According to the Central Statistical Institute, the consumption of 
vegetables per head has risen from 32.13 to 39.21 kg. between the five 
years prior to the war and the five years 1928-1932 — an increase of more 
than one-fifth ; the consumption of fresh fruit (except oranges and 
lemons) has risen from about 4 million to 12 million quintals ; the 
consumption of fresh grapes has, in five years, risen from 2 % to 5 rnillion 
quintals. 

It is therefore certain that the dietary of Italians has changed in the 
direction of a larger consumption of vegetables and fruit, a change which 
is approved by hygienists, particularly when climatic conditions are 
taken into consideration. This general change of habits has proved 
particularly valuable from the point of view of food supplies in the 
period of sanctions, as it has enabled the consumption of meat to be 
limited and a large debit item in the balance of trade to be cancelled out 
without any inconvenience for the Italian population. 

An Emergency Dietary. 

This whole movement was developing in a spirit of co-operation and 
national confidence when the day came for Italy to organise her 
resistance to the front of sanctionist nations. In this emergency, Italy 
was anxious to replace or restrict the consumption of imported goods 
while at the same time providing the population with an appropriate 
and adequate diet. 

During this emergency regime, progress in the direction of a steady 
improvement in nutrition has, of course, been checked ; nevertheless, 
the organisation was ready to meet the difficult requirements of the 
situation without its being necessary to requisition foodstuffs or to 
introduce ration-cards. The Secretary of the Party, through his " Order 
Sheet", which reaches the smallest villages, having regard to the 
nutritional difficulties created by the sanctions, laid down the following 
guiding principles for a national diet dictated by circumstances : 

A Standard Mixed Diet. 

I. Only a mixed and varied diet provides the human organism 
with all the body-building and energy-giving elements which it 
requires. Consequently, the principal meal of the day should consist 



— 44 — 

of varied foods of vegetable origin in such quantities as can be wholly 
supplied by national production. 

2. Carbon is needed in the daily diet, which should therefore 
contain mineral salts and vitamins ; these elements are essential to 
meet the requirements of the adult organism and the organism during 
the period of growth. 

3. Cereals (wheat, rice, maize, barley, rye) constitute the staple 
elements of Italian diet ; they are consumed in the form of alimentary 
pastes, soups, "polenta", etc. They need to be supplemented, however, 
by other elements containing the nutritive principles which cereals 
lack or contain only in small quantities. The daily diet should therefore 
include at least one of the following elements : milk, dairy produce, 
eggs, meat, fish, vegetables, fruit. 

The Feeding of Children. 

4. Children should be given each day : [a) fresh milk (which 
has first been boiled — in places where there is no "milk centre") or 
preserved milk ; (6) orange, lemon or tomato juice, in addition to the 
ordinary elements specially suitable to their age. 

5. The diet of persons engaged in manual work should be more 
plentiful and contain a larger quantity of carbohydrates (bread, 
alimentary pastes, rice, vegetables, etc.) than that of persons leading 
a sedentary life. 

6. In allocating each week the sum to be spent on food for the 
household, the following rules should be followed : cereals and 
vegetables, not more than 30 to 35% ; foodstuffs of animal origin 
(meat, fish, milk, dairy produce, eggs), at least 25 to 35% ; fats 
(bacon fat, butter, lard, margarine, oil), at least 7 to 10% ; vegetables 
and potatoes, not more than 10 to 20% ; fruit, from 14 to 16%. 

7. The adoption of the continuous working time-table has made it 
necessary for families to change their dietary habits ; if they have 
larger breakfast, the cold meal at midday can be smaller. The chief 
meal can be taken in the early hours of the evening. 

Rules for a Rational Diet. 

8. The following rule might be adopted for feeding a family ; 
at each meal, milk for the children and bread for everyone ; each 
day, cereals for all (alimentary pastes, rice, etc.), potatoes, tomatoes 
or oranges and lemons ; one or two dishes of green or other vegetables, 
fruit, butter, bacon fat, lard, oil, margarine, sugar. From twice to 
four times a week, vegetable or tomato salad for all, dried vegetables, 
eggs (especially for children), meat, fish, cheese. The Commission 
for the Study of Nutritional Problems has prepared a few specimens 
of cheap bills of fare on these lines, which will shortly be distributed 
with the pamphlet containing the general rules for rational and 
economical nutrition, using home-produced foodstuffs. 



— 45 — 

These orders have been made widely known. The subject is dealt 
with by wireless in the form mentioned above whenever an opportunity 
arises. There is a special section for rural propaganda, the " Ente Radio 
Rurale " (Rural Radio Institution). The heads of the Syndical 
Organisation give wireless talks on these subjects to their comrades. 
The " Luce ", a cinematograph organisation, informs and instructs 
the people on these matters and thus helps to achieve the common 
object. 

Latvia. 

Production of Foodstuffs. 

Remarkable changes have taken place in the production of foodstuffs 
during the period 1930-1935. Until then, a large part of the foodstuffs 
consumed in Latvia was imported from abroad — for example, breadstuffs 
(rye and wheat), nearly the whole of the sugar consumed, and large 
quantities of eggs and salted herrings. During the years of world 
economic depression, the Latvian Government, chiefly owing to its 
desire to help the farmers, who were suffering severely from the crisis, 
and partly also in order to improve the balance of foreign trade, enacted 
a number of laws for the purpose of encouraging home production of 
foodstuffs and restricting the importation of these commodities. The 
measures taken by the Government have had the following results : 

Bread-making Cereals. 

Although Latvia is an agricultural country, the home-grown crops of 
breadstuffs did not suffice up to 1930 to cover the needs of home 
consumption. For many years in succession, large quantities of rye and 
wheat had to be imported to feed the towns (and to some extent also 
the country districts of Latgale). Thus, in the five harvest years from 
1923-24 to 1927-28, imports of breadstuffs remained comparatively 
stable, varying only slightly on either side of 100,000 tons per annum, 
rather more than half of which was rye and the remainder wheat. During 
these years, foreign breadstuffs accounted for about 30% of Latvia's 
total cereal consumption. In 1928, the excessive humidity and the 
floods caused a very bad harvest in Latvia, which led to an increase in 
imports to 217,000 tons for the 1928-29 harvest year (the harvest year 
being reckoned from August ist to July 31st following) and to 166,000 
tons for 1929-30. 

Beginning with the 1930-31 harvest year, the situation was completely 
transformed. In 1930, the harvest was a very good one. Already during 
the previous years, the Latvian farmers had found considerable difficulty 
in dispo-sing of their crops, for which they obtained only very low prices, 
since the import of rye was free and the Customs duties on foreign wheat 
extremely low. The position of the farmers became particularly critical 
in 1930. Owing to the fall of prices on the world market, the price of 
cereals imported into Latvia also underwent a remarkable decline during 
that period. 



— 46 — 

In order to enable farmers to sell their cereals and obtain a satisfactory 
price, the Government enacted, in August 1930, "Measures for the 
control of the market in breadstuffs ". The Government bought rye 
and wheat from the farmers at prices fixed by it in advance and resold 
the grain to the flour-mills. The same procedure was adopted during 
succeeding years. The result was not only an increase in the area sown 
(particularly with wheat), but also an improvement in the yield per 
hectare. The total harvest reached a volume which made importation 
of foreign cereals superfluous. In 1930-31, 54,000 tons were still 
imported, and 30,000 tons in 1931-32 ; but, in 1932-33, all imports of 
bread-making cereals ceased. For the last four years, therefore, Latvia 
has been self-supporting in breadstuffs. 

That production has increased to such an extent that home-grown 
cereals not only suffice for the needs of home consumption and industry, 
but leave a considerable surplus for export. In the period 1923-1927, 
the total consumption of breadstuffs in Latvia for feeding the population, 
and also to some extent for sowing, fodder and industrial requirements, 
has reached an average of 400,000 tons per annum (rye and wheat). 
But the 1932 harvest produced 440,000 tons ; that of 1933, 540,000 tons ; 
that of 1934, 630,000 tons ; that of 1935, 540,000 tons (364,000 tons of 
rye and 177,000 tons of wheat). There was, therefore, a large surplus 
for exportation. In 1934, Latvia exported 46,834 tons of rye and 2,379 
tons of wheat, and, in 1935, 88,425 tons of rye and 65,749 tons of wheat. 
In a space of a few years, Latvia has been converted from an importer 
to an exporter of breadstuffs. 

An interesting point in connection with the production of breadstuffs 
is the great increase in the production and con.sumption of wheat. Owing 
to an increase in the area sown and the yield per hectare, the total wheat 
harvest rose from 60,000 tons in 1925 to 183,000 tons in 1933, 219,000 
tons in 1934 and 177,000 tons in 1935, and has therefore trebled in less 
than ten years. The consumption of wheat (particularly white wheat 
bread) has increased in relation to the total consumption of breadstuffs 
both in the towns and in the countryside. 

The last few years have witnessed a large production of breadstuffs 
in Latvia. And yet the consumption of bread in the towns has not only 
not increased, but has even declined, while the consumption of animal 
products — meat and, to some extent, also dairy products — has 
considerably increased. 



Meat. 



The number of farm animals has continually increased, even during 
the years of depression, as is shown by the following table. 

Agricultural censuses were held in Latvia in 1929 and 1935, so that 
the data for these years are more accurate than for the others, for which 
estimates have been made. 



— 47 













Cattle 


Milch cows (included 

in previous 

column) 


Pigs 


Sheep 


1 928 960,600 




535,000 


1,090,400 


1929 










978.400 


721,200 


382,200 


905.500 


1930 










1,026,300 


728,400 


522,700 


872,900 


1931 










1,116,900 


745,200 


712,100 


923,100 


1932 










1,153.100 


784,300 


581,600 


984,000 


1933 










1,155,800 


802,900 


585.900 


1,114,300 


1934 










1,157,600 


807,100 


686,400 


1,208,900 


1935 










1,272,200 


874,600 


801,800 


1,345,000 



The number of farm animals is now greater than before the depression. 
The same remark applies to sheep, the number of which was declining 
before the depression but which greatly increased during the years of 
crisis. The production of fodder has consequently been expanded. This 
has had the result of increasing the production of meat. The number of 
animals sold by farmers to feed the population of the towns and the 
average weight of these animals have risen, as is shown by the following 
figures : 

Number of Animals slaughtered in the Towns, and of Animals slattghtered 
in the Country and sold in the Toivns. 





1927-1930 

Annual average 


1931-1934 
Annual average 


1934 


1935 


Cattle . . . 


121,000 


133,000 


152,000 


151,000 


Calves . . . 


286,000 


271,000 


291,000 


288,000 


Pigs . . . 


188,000 


287,000 


315,000 


345.000 


Sheep . , . 


200,000 


158,000 


202,000 


225,000 



A particularly large increase is to be observed as regards pigs sold by 
farmers. Nearly all these pigs are consumed in the Latvian towns, for 
only 36,000 were exported in 1935 (barely 2,000 tons of bacon to the 
United Kingdom, and various small quantities elsewhere). 

Latterly, animals have also been better fattened. The weight of 
the animals slaughtered at the municipal slaughter-houses of the city 
of Riga has been as follows : 





192; 

Live weight 


M930 

Dressed 


I93I-1933 

Live weight Dressed 


1935 

Live weight 


Dressed 




average 


carcass 


average carcass 


average 


carcass 




Kg. 


average 
Kg. 


average 
Kg. Kg. 


Kg. 


average 
Kg. 


Cattle . . 


324 


162 


372 186 


394 


197 


Calves . . 


53 


32 


61 37 


65 


39 


Pigs . . 


119 


95 


133 106 


139 


III 


Sheep . . 


40 


20 


40 20 


39 


20 



The average weight of animals slaughtered has greatly increased in 
the last few years. 



— 48 — 

The increase in the number of animals sold by farmers and in the 
average weight of the meat of these animals has been followed by an 
increase in the quantity of meat sold by farmers. 

Meat sold by Fanners and consumed m the Towns. 



Beef . . 

Veal . . 

Pork , . 

Mutton . 

Total 



1927-1930 

Annual 

average 

Tons 

19,600 
g,200 

17.900 
4,000 

50,700 



1931-1934 

Annual 

average 

Tons 

24,700 

10,000 

30,400 

3,200 

68,300 



1934 

Tons 
27,300 
11,000 
32,500 

3.900 
74,700 



1935 

Tons 
29,700 
11,200 
38,300 

4.500 

83,700 



Nearly all the meat sold by the farmers has been consumed in Latvian 
towns. Latvia has only exported about 2,000 tons of bacon per annum 
during the periods in question. 

As compared with the pre-depression years, the consumption of meat 
has increased in the towns by 50 to 60%. This is due to the extra- 
ordinary fall in meat prices. 

It should also be observed that the town population has hardly 
increased at all in Latvia in the last few years. At the time of the 1930 
general census, there were 693,000 inhabitants in the towns, and, in 
1935, the figure was 710,000, making an increase of about 2%. Thus, 
the extraordinary increase in meat consumption in the towns in the 
period 1 931 -1935 applies, not only to the total quantity of meat 
consumed, but also to the quantity of meat consumed per head of the 
population in the towns. 

During the same period, the consumption of meat also increased in the 
country districts. This general increase in meat consumption in the 
towns and country also shows that meat production has considerably 
grown in Latvia in the last five or six years. 



Dairy Products. 

In 1929-30, milk production in Latvia amounted to 1,304,000 tons 
(these data refer to the period May ist-April 30th). During the next six 
years, the number of milch cows increased, the figure rising from 721,000 
at the 1929 agricultural census to 874,000 at the 1935 census (an increase 
of 21%). The average yield of milk per milch-cow has also risen. Thus, 
while in 1929-30 the average yield of milch-cows inspected by the live- 
stock control companies was 2,461 litres of milk (with a fat content 
of 3.86%, making 94 kg. of milk fat or 108 kg. of butter), in 1933-34 
the yield was 2,567 litres of milk with a fat content of 3.89% making 
100 kg. of milk fat or 115 kg. of butter. Thus, the average yield of milk 
per cow increased by 4%, and the quantity of fat or butter contained 
in the milk by 6.4%. 



— 49 — 

Owing to the increase in the number of milch-cows and in the average 
yield per cow, it may be calculated that the quantity of milk produced in 
1935 amounted to about 1,640,000 tons, with a slightly greater fat content. 

In 1929, exports of Latvian butter amounted to slightly less than 
15,000 tons, and, in 1935, to slightly less than 17,000 tons. In 1929, 
360,000 tons of milk were used, and 410,000 tons in 1935, for the 
production of exported butter. The consumption of unskimmed milk 
in Latvia (in the form of milk, butter, cream, cheese, curds and other 
milk products) may therefore be estimated at about 940,000 tons in 
1929, and at about 1,230,000 tons in 1935. Thus, the consumption of 
milk and dairy products in Latvia increased by 30% during the period 
1930-1935. At the same time, the average consumption of milk and dairy 
products per head of the population followed the same upward curve ; 
for, from 1930 to 1935, according to the general census, the population 
of the country only increased by 2.6% — from 1,900,000 to 1,950,000. 



Eggs and Poultry. 

According to the data of the agricultural census of 1929, the number 
of poultry in Latvia was as follows : 

Fowls 1,853,653 

Geese 59, 700 

Ducks 84,142 

Turkeys 18,516 

Total 2,016,011 

Subsequently, a census of farmyard poultry was taken only in the 100 
most representative communes (there are 517 communes altogether 
in Latvia). In these 100 communes, the figures obtained in 1934 were 
greater than those of 1929 by 63% in the case of fowls, 104% for geese, 
138% for ducks and 275% for turkeys. On the assumption that the 
number of head of poultry followed the same course in the other 
communes during the years 1929-1934, the approximate number of 
poultry in Latvia in 1934 m^iy be estimated as follows : 

Fowls 3,000,000 

Geese 120,000 

Ducks 200,000 

Turkeys 70,000 



Total (in round figures) . 3,400,000 

The production of eggs, on the basis of the figures of the 1929-30 
agricultural census, amounted during this period to 134,000,000 per 
annum; 131,000,000 were used to feed the population of towns and 
country (the remaining 3 millions being utilised for hatching). On the 
assumption, again, that the production of eggs increased in the same 



— 50 — 

proportion as the number of poultry, it must have been about two- 
thirds greater in 1934 than in 1929 — i.e., about 218 millions per annum. 
The consumption of eggs increased in Latvia to almost the same extent — 
i.e., by 67% — for the importation of eggs, which has now ceased but 
which amounted in 1929-30 to 8,586 cases, or 12.4 million eggs per 
annum, hardly affects the figure. There have been no imports in recent 
years, and Latvia is now self-supporting in this respect. The export 
of eggs is trifling ; 1,038 cases in 1933, 464 in 1934 and 1,778 in 1935. 

In the years 1929-1934, the consumption of poultry increased in 
about the same proportion as the number of fowls and the production 
of eggs — i.e., by about 67%. Compared with the consumption of beef, 
veal, pork and mutton, that of poultry is trifling. Thus, while the 
quantity of meat derived from domestic animals sold by farmers and 
consumed by the population of the towns amounts to over 80,000 tons 
per annum, that of poultry thus consumed does not exceed 1,000 to 
1,500 tons. The farmers sell and the town population consumes about 
700,000 fowls (including pullets and cockerels), 40,000 ducks, 40,000 
geese and 15,000 turkeys per annum. 

Fish. 

Before the depression, the first place in Latvia's fish consumption 
was occupied by herrings. From 1925 to 1927, 16,000 tons were 
imported per annum. In 1930, herring imports amounted to 19,000 tons ; 
but, in 1934, it amounted to 9,000 tons and, in 1935, to 10,000. In the 
last few years, the consumption of herrings has seriously declined, owing 
to restrictions on imports and to the fact that the price of herrings has 
fallen much less than that of meat, thus making them relatively dearer 
for the great mass of consumers. 

The production of the Latvian maritime fisheries in the last few years 
has been as follows : 

Tons 

1924-1930 (average) .... 10,461 

1931 9,284 

1932 10,024 

1933 13,892 

1934 11,496 

In the years 1933 and 1934, the production of sea fisheries greatly 
increased as compared with that of the years 1931-1932 and 1924-1930. 
The chief fish caught was the small Baltic herring, of which the catch 
was 7,236 tons in 1934 '< next come flounders and turbot (1,904 tons in 
1934), cod (806 tons), etc. 

The quantity of fresh-water fish caught is estimated at 3,500 tons per 
annum. 

Nearly all the product of the fisheries is consumed within the country. 
Latvia exports only small quantities of fish and tinned fish. In 1934, 



— 51 — 

for example, she exported 311 tons of fish and 635 tons of tinned fish, 
the figures for 1935 being 118 tons and 926 tons respectively. 

In the last few years, the consumption of fish has slightly declined in 
Latvia, a fact due to the decrease in the consumption of herrings caused, 
in its turn, by the increase in the consumption of meat. 

Srigar. 

Before the world depression, the consumption of sugar in Latvia 
steadily increased, reaching an average of about 50,000 tons per annum 
in the years 1929 and 1930. This consumption declined during the years 
of depression, for, the price not having fallen, sugar had become 
comparatively a more expensive foodstuff. In 1934, the Sugar Monopoly 
sold 42,314 tons, but, in 1935, only 41,382 tons, these being the amounts 
of sugar consumed in Latvia. 

Even in 1929-30, nearly all the sugar consumed in Latvia was imported 
from abroad. In the last few years, thanks to Government support, the 
cultivation of the sugar-beet and the sugar industry have developed to 
such an extent that all the sugar necessary for national consumption 
is produced within the country from Latvian beet. In 1935, sugar 
ceased to be imported ; the same will be the case during the current 
year and in the future. 

The area under sugar-beet was 14,398 hectares in 1934, ^.nd the crop 
was 336,000 tons of beetroot. 

Fruits and Vegetables. 

In 1930, the apple crop amounted to about 121,000 tons, that of pears 
to 5,500 tons, and that of plums to 3,500 tons. Statistical data are not 
available for cultivated berries (cherries, gooseberries, red currants, 
strawberries and raspberries) and wild berries (bilberries and 
cranberries). Crops of fruits and berries, moreover, vary greatly from 
one year to another. In 1930, for example, the crop was quite a good one. 
The number of fruit trees is continually increasing, which also leads to 
an increase in the fruit crop. 

The export of fruit is trifling. The importation of fresh and dried 
fruits (oranges, lemons, grapes, etc.) averaged 7,000 tons in 1929-30 (in 
the previous years, it was much smaller owing to the higher Customs 
duties). In 1934, imports of fruits and berries barely exceeded 1,000 
tons. 

The cultivation of various vegetables is constantly increasing in Latvia. 
This applies chiefly to the cultivation of vegetables in greenhouses in 
the neighbourhood of Riga (green salad, cucumbers, lettuces, tomatoes, 
radishes). 

The production of honey averaged 1,090 tons per annum in the period 
1925-1934 and amounted to 1,416 tons in i933 and 1,134 i^ i934- 



— 52 — 

The fixed prices guaranteed to farmers for their products in proportion 
to the cost of production, and the stable market on which they can rely, 
constitute an important factor which has largely contributed to the 
development of the production of the principal foodstuffs in Latvia. 
The efforts of the farmers to recoup themselves for the losses suffered 
as a result of the decline in the prices of some of their products (meat, 
for example) have also exercised a certain influence. 



Consumption of Foodstuffs. 

Nutrition of the Town Population. 

In 1930, the towns of Latvia had 693,000 inhabitants and the country 
districts 1,207,000 ; while, in 1935, the town population amounted to 
710,000 inhabitants and that of the country districts to 1,240,000. 

The consumption of foodstuffs by the town population is estimated on 
the basis of statistical data regarding family budgets collected by the 
Government Statistical Office for the year 1926-27 (April to April), 
more recent data being lacking. The data thus collected relate to families 
living a steady life — i.e., endeavouring to live rationally within their 
income. In view of the complexity of the nutrition question, the 
Government Statistical Office only drew up figures for the four months 
of January, April, July and October, which are typical of the four 
seasons they represent. The figure for the average monthly consumption 
throughout the year was obtained by taking the arithmetical mean of 
consumption during the four months mentioned above. 

In compiling data on family budgets, public officials, school-teachers, 
employees of sickness insurance funds, etc., were classed as intellectual 
workers, while the different kinds of artisans, workers and labourers formed 
the group of manual workers. The manual workers whose expenditure 
on food was noted chiefly belonged to the category of skilled workers. 

Further, the family budgets were divided into other groups — namely, 
city of Riga and provincial towns. The city of Riga had 377,000 
inhabitants in 1930, or more than half the total number of town-dwellers 
in Latvia. 

The families whose expenditure was noted had the following average 
income per unit of consumption : 1 



' The needs of an adult man are taken as the unit of consumption ; the units are reckoned proportionately 
as follows : 

Age Male Sex Female Sex 

Up to 2 years 0.3 0.3 

2 to 6 years 0.4 0.4 

6toioyears 0.5 0.5 

10 to 12 years 0.6 0.6 

12 to 13 years 0.7 0.6 

13 to 15 years 0.8 0.7 

15 to 17 years 0.9 0.8 

Over 17 years l.o 0.8 



53 





In Riga 
Lats 


In other towns 
Lats 


Intellectual workers . . 


132.17 


no. 10 


Manual workers . . . 


77.84 


69.19 



An average household has 2 14 units of consumption. 
Out of the total expenditure of a family, food accounts for the following 
proportions : 





In Riga 

/o 


In other towns 

% 


Intellectual workers . . 


32.3 


35.6 


Manual workers . . . 


48.2 


43.3 



At Riga, the expenses of the intellectual worker, who chooses the 
more costly foodstuflfs, exceed those of a manual worker by 16% per 
calorie on an average, while in the other towns this percentage even 
reaches 28 °o. Compared with manual workers, intellectual workers 
consume less cereal products and more meat, fish and other produce. 

In the towns, the consumption of certain foodstuffs has greatly 
increased in the last five years. This applies particularly to meat and 
dairy products, with the consequence that there has been a decline in 
the consumption of bread. 

Nutrition in Rural Districts. 

The data on this subject are less detailed than those which have been 
collected with regard to the nutrition of town-dwellers. In any case, 
the dietary of the rural population is more frugal than that of the town- 
dwellers. All the data regarding the dietary of the rural population have 
been taken from the material possessed by the rural accountancy service 
of the Government Statistical Office. In the rural households which 
keep accounts, the principal foodstuffs consumed on an average per 
adult 1 during one year were as follows (these data refer to the economic 
year beginning on May ist) : 



Products 


1929-30 


1930-31 


1931-32 


1932-33 


1933-34 


1927-1932 
average 




Kg. 


Kg. 


Kg. 


Kg. 


Kg. 


Kg. 


Rye 


I53-I 


146.9 


129.3 


122.7 


142.9 


149.8 


Wheat . . . 


72.3 


86.3 


89.7 


87.6 


94.2 


79.1 


Barley . . . 


58.0 


63.7 


70.8 


78.2 


69.0 


56.3 


Peas, beans, etc. 


7.0 


II. 6 


9-9 


10.5 


10. 


8.6 


Potatoes . . . 


263.2 


274.4 


303-5 


294.2 


279.1 


259.8 


Full milk . . 


2X8.1 


306.9 


305-0 


339-3 


380.5 


302.9 


Skimmed milk 


417-7 


363-0 


324-9 


391-9 


316.9 


343-7 


Butter . . . 


9.6 


II .1 


II .0 


II-5 


9.8 


9.6 


Pork 


48.2 


57.4 


71.0 


62.0 


59-9 


55.1 



' Children below 5 years of age are counted as 0.3 of an adult, from 5 to ro years as 0.5, from 10 to 15, 
0.8, and over 15, i. 



— 54 — 

Products 1929-30 1930-31 1931-32 1932-33 1933-34 1927-1932 

average 

Kg. Kg, Kg. Kg. Kg. Kg. 

6.2 4,8 5.1 6.3 6.7 7.2 

8.0 8.8 12. 9 18,4 16.4 II. 4 

77 75 81 94 96 69 

1.4 2.0 2.1 2.0 2.2 1.5 

— 36.0 31. I 20.6 26.9 28.0 

— 22.0 19.5 15.9 18.6 19. I 

— 12.4 6.6 2.5 5.9 12.6 



Mutton . . . 
Beef and veal . 
Eggs (number) 
Honey . . . 
Sugar . . . . 

Salt 

Herrings . . . 



In recent years, the consumption of wheat has considerably increased 
in the rural districts, owing to the extension of the cultivation of that 
cereal. An increase is also to be noted in the consumption of full milk 
and of beef and pork. The same applies to the consumption of eggs 
and honey in the country districts. On the other hand, a decline is to 
be observed in the consumption of sugar and herrings. Not being able 
to obtain these products, the farmer restricted his consumption of them 
during a time when his income and purchasing power were reduced. 



Increase in the Consumption of Foodstuffs, 1931-1935. 

Dr. K. Ulmanis, head of the Latvian Government, has, for a long 
time past, been untiring in his efforts to provide a stable market for 
Latvian agricultural products, while also guaranteeing adequate prices 
corresponding to the cost of production. These ideas are described 
in Dr. K. Ulmanis' work entitled " How to reconstruct our Agriculture 
and make it more productive ", which appeared as early as 1929 — i.e, 
on the eve of the world economic crisis. This work contains a carefully 
defined programme of agrarian policy. Subsequently, and particularly 
in the last two years — i.e., since the National Government has been in 
power — this programme has been fully applied. The importation of 
agricultural products which can be cultivated at home completely 
ceased during the period 1930- 1935. The Government has guaranteed 
fixed prices and a sure market for the following products : wheat, 
milk delivered at the dairies {metairies), bacon, linseed, sugar-beet. 
The Government itself buys large quantities of wheat and also the whole 
flax and sugar-beet crops. 

As we have seen above, this activity on the part of the Government 
has resulted in an extraordinary increase in agricultural production. 



Course of Retail Prices. 

The big fall in prices during the years 1931, 1932 and 1933 proved 
a powerful stimulus to increased production of foodstuffs. 



53 



Average Retail Prices in Latvian Towns {in lats per kg.) 

1928 

Rye bread 0.34 

White bread .... 0.73 

Barley meal 0.53 

Dried peas 0.48 

Potatoes 0.14 

Pork 1.75 

Smoked pork .... 2.20 

Mutton 0.95 

Beef with bones (for 

soup) 0.95 

Veal 0.79 

Lard 2.57 

Dead fowls (each) . . 2.40 

Full milk (per litre) . . 0.21 

Curds 0.51 

Sour cream 1.93 

Dutch cheese .... 2.56 

Unsalted butter . . . 3.49 

Eggs (each) 0.13 

Rye in grains (100 kg.) 29.95 
Wheat in grains 

(100 kg.) 35.91 31.54 27.07 24.59 25.51 25.72 20.95 16.85 



In the last four years, the foodstuff prices, as far as agricultural 
products are concerned, have for the most part fallen by 50% and even 
more as compared with the prices prevailing during the last years before 
the depression. The extraordinary fall in the prices of agricultural 
products led farmers to develop production, in order to recoup themselves 
by an increase in the quantities of products for sale. This extension 
of production led to a large increase in the consumption of animal 
products (meat) and dairy products, particularly in towns, but also 
in the countryside. As compared with the years 1927-1930, the 
consumption of meat by town-dwellers in 1934-35 showed an increase 
of 50 to 60% (per head). In the towns, the increase in the consumption 
of meat and dairy products has been encouraged by the extraordinary 
fall in the prices of these products, which has greatly exceeded the fall 
in income and wages of inhabitants in the towns. In particular, the 
production and supply of meat in the towns during the years of 
depression were so great that prices had to fall enormously to adjust 
themselves to the purchasing power of the town population, whose 
income had declined. 



19^9 


1930 


1931 


1932 


1933 


1934 


1935 

(December) 


0.32 


0.25 


0.28 


0.28 


0.25 


0.21 


0.20 


0.69 


0.66 


0.64 


0.61 


0.58 


0.52 


0.49 


0.49 


0.39 


0.36 


0.33 


0.31 


0.29 


0.26 


0.61 


0.50 


0.36 


0.32 


0.30 


0.28 


0.26 


0.15 


0.08 


0.07 


0.05 


0.05 


0.04 


0.04 


2.21 


1.89 


1. 10 


0.79 


0.96 


0.93 


0.80 


2.73 


2.41 


1.56 


113 


1-25 


1.22 


1.06 


1-25 


I-3I 


0.94 


0.61 


0.61 


0.61 


054 


1. 19 


1.23 


0.91 


0.50 


0.48 


0.50 


0.48 


1. 01 


1. 01 


0.68 


0.46 


0.46 


0.48 


0.49 


2.87 


2.49 


1.85 


1-52 


1.60 


1-57 


1-34 


3.22 


325 


2.78 


1.90 


1.76 


1.76 


1. 81 


0.22 


0.20 


0.17 


0.13 


0.12 


O.II 


0.12 


0.53 


0.48 


0.39 


0.30 


0.27 


0.28 


0.29 


1.82 


1.65 


1. 21 


0.94 


0.89 


0.88 


0.91 


2.66 


2.44 


2.06 


1.63 


1.46 


1.50 


1.44 


3.53 


2.94 


2.31 


1.78 


1.77 


1-74 


1. 91 


0.14 


0.12 


O.IO 


0.08 


0.08 


0.08 




5.47 


17.20 


20.85 


22.20 


20.09 


15.87 


13.29 



— 56 — 

Course of Wages. 

In the Riga industrial undertakings, the average remuneration ^ 
of workers in all branches was as follows : 

1930 1933 1934 1935 

(December) 

Skilled workers : 

Men 100 77.4 75.0 78.6 

Women 100 86.4 86.4 88.6 

Unskilled workers : 

Men 100 79.7 79.7 84.7 

Women 100 90.9 90.9 93-9 

As compared with the year 1930, the average wages ^ of industrial 
workers at Riga have declined by 6, 11, 15 and 21%, whereas the index 
of the cost of foodstuffs consumed by Riga workers has been as follows : 

1930 100 1934 69 

1931 89 1935 (December) . 62 

1932 75 1936 (January) . . 56 

1933 74 

A worker's family which spent 10 lats, for example, in 1930 on a 
certain quantity of various products could have bought the same 
quantity in 1934 for 6.90 lats — i.e., a reduction of 31%. In December 
1935, the same quantity of products cost only 6.20 lats, or 38% less, 
while, in January 1936, it could be obtained for 5.60 lats, or a difference 
of 44% compared with 1930. Thus, in the case of foodstuffs, the cost- 
of-living index shows a much more rapid decline than wages. Hence, 
workers, like the other inhabitants of the towns, have been able to buy 
and consume a much greater quantity of foodstuffs than previously. 

The general index of the cost of living for Riga workers (which, apart 
from food, includes rent, heating, lighting, clothing, etc.) has also 
fallen much more than their wages. 

General Index of Cost of Living for Riga Workers. 

1930 100 1934 72 

1931 91 i935( December) . . 69 

1932 79 1936 (January) . . 66 

1933 76 

Compared with the index of the cost of food, the general index of 
the cost of living has declined less rapidly, and the prices of clothes, 
rent, etc., have fallen less than those of foodstuffs. 



* Net average wages per hour (inoluding overtime pay and piece-work, but excluding payments to sickness 
and unemployment insurance funds). 

* About two-thirds of the total number of Latvian industrial workers are employed in industria 
undertakings at Riga. 



— 57 ^ 

Interdependence of Exports of Foodstuffs and Other Branches 

OF Latvian Economic Life. 

In 1935, Latvia exported butter to the value of 18 14 million lats ; 
breadstuffs (wheat and rye), about 9 million lats ; bacon, 2 million lats ; 
other meat, half a million lats ; pork, 3 % million lats ; making a total 
of 33 million lats, representing one-third of the total Latvian exports 
(98.7 million lats). In addition, canned fish and confectionery are also 
exported. 

Since 1930-31, exports of agricultural produce, formerly free, have 
been considerably hampered by various import restrictions introduced 
by certain manufacturing (and other) countries in Europe. For instance, 
exports of butter to Germany, which had gradually risen from nil in 
the first years of Latvia's independence to 15,000 tons in 1930 (worth 
47 million lats), fell rapidly from 1931 onwards. The reason was the 
increased Customs duties on imports of butter into Germany and an 
even stricter system of quotas on exports of this article. In this way, 
exports of Latvian butter to Germany fell to 10,000 tons in 1932, 
6,000 tons in 1933 and 1934, ^^^d even below 5,000 tons in 1935, o^ to 
one-third of the former level of exports. Latvia's economic situation 
was further greatly affected by the extraordinary fall in butter prices. 
In 1929, Latvian butter commanded 4 lats per kg. in Germany ; in 
1934, only 1.20 lat ; and, in 1935, 1.36 lat. Latterly, exports of Latvian 
butter tend to find their way to the United Kingdom, notwithstanding 
the extremely low prices paid there (70 centimes per kg. in 1934 ^^^ ^ l^it 
in 1935). Since 1932, the United Kingdom has also introduced import 
duties on Latvian butter, so that the free import of butter to that 
market has been substantially hampered. A smaller quota has also 
been imposed in the United Kingdom on imports of Latvian bacon, 
which reacts unfavourably on the development of pig-breeding in Latvia. 
That is why exports of bacon to the United Kingdom are limited to 
2,000 tons per annum. 

These import restrictions on the chief Latvian exports have done 
serious damage to Latvian agriculture. The extraordinary fall in the 
prices of agricultural produce for the export market has entailed a 
price reduction of 50% and even more on the home market. Thus, 
in 193 1, farmers sold their produce for 70 million lats less than in 1930, 
the difference being equal to almost one-third of the total income of 
Latvian agriculture before the depression. The fall in the purchasing 
power of Latvian farmers has greatly affected national industry, and 
trade and transport have also suffered. As a result, in 1930 and 1931, 
about 40,000 wage-earners, or more than 20% of all the persons earning 
wages before the depression, lost their employment in industry, trade 
and transport, while wages were simultaneously greatly reduced. 
The fall in taxpayers' incomes was also felt by the revenue. Farmers 
have fallen into debt, their total obligations amounting to 300 million 
lats. The prices of many agricultural products having fallen to an 



— 58 — 

extraordinarily low level, while debts and interest rates remained 
stationary, it became extremely difficult, not to say impossible, to settle 
the amounts owed. 

To remedy these various difficulties, the Government has adopted 
the following means : export bounties on agricultural produce, facilities 
for farmers as regards the repayment of their debts, opening of the home 
market to agricultural and industrial products, and, lastly, restrictions 
on imports of industrial and agricultural articles. 

The heaviest export bounties were paid on butter. Up to September 
1st, 1935, they cost the Government about 65 million lats. Bacon 
exports have also been stimulated by bounties. The purchase in 1934 
and 1935, at fixed prices, of the heavy crop of bread stuffs (rye and wheat) 
and their subsequent export at much lower prices must have entailed 
very heavy losses for the Government. 

The Government has given farmers various facilities for payment 
of debts, reducing the interest rates on State loans, extending for several 
years the time-limits for paying the claims of the State Agricultural 
Bank and cancelling altogether certain classes or parts of loans given 
by the State. Forced sales of the property of farmers have been 
suspended. At the same time, a minimum quota of inalienable 
agricultural property has been established, so that cases of farms being 
sold by auction have become very rare. Furthermore, many short- 
term loans have been extended at a cost to the Government of 20 million 
lats. 

Since the end of 1931, imports of industrial and agricultural products 
have been cut down more and more so as to enable Latvian farmers 
to increase their income. Of recent years, Latvia has been unable to 
buy abroad the same amount of industrial articles as before the 
depression, and has therefore had to limit imports by putting quotas 
on the goods in question. These import restrictions have also been 
necessary in order to give employment to unemployed factory workers. 
As a result of the fall in foreign imports and the exhaustion of stocks 
of foreign manufactured articles, national industry has, in fact, been 
able to extend its output considerably. 

Much of Latvia's output of foodstuffs being exported abroad, her 
prosperity and the state of her finances, agriculture, industry and 
commerce largely depend on the volume of these exports and the prices 
secured. Accordingly, the level of prosperity of Latvia's population 
and, eo ipso, the improvement of her nutrition, are closely bound up 
with the extent of the market provided for Latvian exports in 
manufacturing countries and the prices paid there for her products. 

Netherlands. 

The consumption of fats has fallen off by 8% since 1932. Nume- 
rous families receive margarine coupons, and the use of this is 
•widespread. 



- 59 — 

Canned and minced meat is provided for unemployed persons, and 
those who need it. It is, however, comparatively little used. The 
consumption of meat has fallen off by 50%. On the other hand, 
vegetables are very cheap, and the consumption is very large. The 
price of fish has fallen considerably, and the population has the benefit 
of the reduction. 

Bread is still the principal foodstuff in the case of indigent persons. 

Enquiries made at The Hague and Utrecht have yielded the following 
results : Bread which is not sold at once but is still fresh is sold at half 
the price for ordinary bread, with the result that it is preferred by 
certain sections of the public. Some 70% of the bread consumed is 
without milk content. The quantity of albumen is from 300 to 1,000 
grammes per head per day. The larger the family, the greater the 
quantity of bread consumed. 

The decline in the use of milk is regarded as regrettable, as 
diminishing the quantity of animal albumen and vitamins consumed. 

Generally speaking, it may be said that nutrition has suffered to a 
certain extent, and that the value in calories of the food consumed 
has fallen off by some 4% in a number of families. But the figures are 
still well above the minimum level, which may be put at 2,500 calories. 
It may therefore be said that nutrition has not as yet suffered from this 
very slight falling-off. The physical condition of the population has not 
yet been affected, and public health does not, in general, leave anything 
to be desired. Contagious diseases are extremely rare, and even endemic 
diseases, such as scarlet fever and diphtheria, do not give ground for 
anxiety. The death rate from tuberculosis — though that does not 
constitute a reliable criterion— continues to decline. From 6.8 per 10,000 
inhabitants in 1932, it fell to 6 in 1933 and to 5.4 in 1934. The total 
mortality of the population in recent years has fluctuated between 
9 and 8.4 per 1,000. 



Netherlands East Indies. 

The medical officers attached to the large agricultural and other 
undertakings see that the diet of the workers is sufficient to keep them 
in physical condition. To this end, these medical officers frequently 
consult the Public Health Service and study the findings of scientists 
who have carried out researches in this field. 

The Government medical service supervises the nutrition of the 
employees of the large and small undertakings who are supplied with 
food by the employers. As soon as cases of diseases such as beriberi 
or scurvy occur, steps are taken to improve the diet. The Government 
services do not merely ascertain whether the population is under- 
nourished, but endeavour to prevent famine by giving the people advice 
in regard to agriculture, stock-raising, fishing. 



6o — 



Curacao. 



Although the nutrition of Cura9ao has never been specially studied, 
it may be said that the diet is for the most part irrational and inadequate. 
Its main defetcs are : {a) the insufficient use of fats ; (6) the use of bad 
kinds of fats ; (c) the lack of vitamins due to the inadequate consumption 
of fresh meat and fresh vegetables. 

Generally speaking, the population dislikes vegetables, apart from 
certain kinds which are only available for a short season. Moreover, 
it is sometimes difficult to obtain fresh vegetables and fruit. 

As the rainfall in the Leeward Islands is very low, the population, 
which is unable to obtain fruit and vegetables regularly, has become 
accustomed to foodstuffs which are easily procurable and can be 
preserved. The people therefore feed on maize flour (foencki) and salt 
meat or fish, and eat very little fresh meat, fresh fish or fat. 

The Government is endeavouring to improve nutrition by encouraging 
the growing of such vegetables as the population will eat, by reducing 
as far as possible the price of fresh meat, milk and butter, facilitating 
the distribution of wholesome foodstuffs, and stimulating propaganda 
on behalf of rational nutrition. 

The Government's efforts have already brought about an improvement. 

Siam. 

Prevailing Level of Nutrition. 

The Kingdom of Siam, with a population of approximately 12,000,000, 
has different dietetic customs according to localities and cultures. 
The people that have had a higher education possess dietetic customs 
different from the others. The population of Northern and Eastern 
Siam consume foods, including rice, which are totally different from 
those of the people of Central and Southern Siam. Also, people living 
in the city or town area eat foods which are different from those consumed 
by the rural population. 

In 1930-31, Professor Carl C. Zimmerman, Ph.D., of Harvard 
University, conducted a survey of the prevailing standard of nutrition 
of the Siamese people. This survey has shown that the rural inhabitants 
of Eastern and Northern Siam consumed mainly glutinous rice, while 
the Central and Southern peoples eat chiefly non-glutinous rice. The 
people consuming glutinous rice receive energy value of about 2,500 
calories per day, while those whose main diet consist of non-glutinous 
rice receive about 2,000 calories per day. It is of interest to note, also, 
that people consuming non-glutinous milled white rice usually live near 
rivers, canals and the sea-coast and enjoy the beneficial effects from the 
consumption of fish and sea food. 

Besides rice, which is the main food of the country, the rural population 
also consumes daily varying quantities of other foods, but in rather 
somewhat small quantities. Hardly any milk or other dairy produce 



— 6i — 

is utilised at all. The old tradition of teaching people, and particularly 
the young, to eat plenty of rice ond only a very small quantity of protein 
food has played great havoc among the rural population. Although 
in the case of the city and town population this old tradition is slowly 
losing ground, protein deficiency is an urgent national problem in Siam. 

Of all the vitamin deficiency diseases, beriberi causes the greatest 
number of deaths, and in 1935 claimed a mortaihty of 1,857. 

Another problem arises from the fact that the city and town population 
consumes an over-abundance of fat in both animal and vegetable forms, 
while the rural population does not partake of a sufficient amount of 
fat. Along with the campaign to combat protein deficiency, the 
department will also carry out systematic propaganda to increase the 
consumption of fat among the rural population. 



Switzerland. 

The following particulars are taken from agricultural statistics and 
estimates published by the Swiss Peasant's Secretariat at Brugg. 

Consumption of Foodstuffs in Switzerland. 

Annual Consumption per Head of Population. 

Bread cereals 

Potatoes 

Wine 

Meat 

Eggs 

Honey 

Household milk .... 

Cheese 

Butter 

Sugar 

Coffee 

Citrous fruits 

Swiss Fat Supplies: Total Consumption {in thousands of quintals). 

Animal fats and oils ^ . . . 
Vegetable fats and oils . . 

Total 468 612 649 694 





1911 


1934 


kg. 


134 


149 


kg. 


127 


98 


litres 


56 


48 


kg. 


56 


54-8 


number 


100 


158 


kg. 


0.6 


0.8 


kg. 


280 


251 


kg. 


II. I 


8.5 


kg. 


5-1 


7.1 


kg. 


23-7 


44-3 


kg. 


2.8 


3-4 


kg. 


3-4 


II. 



1923 


1931 


1933 


1934 


347 


378 


388 


413 


121 


234 


261 


281 



1 Not including the production or consumption by peasants producing their own requirements. 



62 



Total Constitnption of Vegetables in 193 1 (in thousands of quintals). 



French beans .... 350 

Green peas 170 

Cabbage 770 

Spinach and seakale beet 160 

Lettuce 385 

Carrots 100 

Radishes 55 

Celery 65 

Leeks 70 



Salsify 

Common beetroot . 

Onions 

Rape-cole 

Cucumbers .... 

Tomatoes 

Other vegetables 

Total consumption 



30 
60 

215 
80 

60 

no 

215 



2,895 



Turkey. 



Turkey is primarily an agricultural country, the peasants {i.e., the 
agriculturists) representing, according to the 1935 census, as much 
as 83% of the total population. The great majority of the population 
is therefore self-supporting in the matter of food, with the result that 
the food supply of the Turkish peasant may be said to be unaffected 
by the world crisis of over-production. The food problem in Turkey is 
not a consequence of over-production, but, on the contrary, is due to 
shortage of products. 

In certain districts in Turkey, where the climatic conditions are 
unfavourable, production is curtailed or, on occasion, completely 
prevented by drought, the result of which is temporary hardship for 
the districts concerned. 

Otherwise, the Turkish peasant has never been the victim of under- 
nutrition as a result of the world economic crisis ; but the fall of prices 
as a result of over-production throughout the world has naturally 
had its effect on the Turkish market. The peasant has not always been 
able to market his produce at a satisfactory price, and this has prevented 
him from acquiring a number of articles on which he normally expends 
what money he has. The peasant's purchasing power, that is to say, 
has been curtailed, and the urban districts have felt the effect of this 
curtailment. The urban population (consisting mainly of traders, 
industrial workers and, above all, home workers) is comparatively 
hard hit, in spite of the fall in prices as a result of over-production, 
and is compelled, in consequence, to restrict its food and other 
requirements. 

It cannot, however, be said that there is any food problem in Turkish 
cities and small towns of the kind which is found in other countries. 
The food problem with which the present enquiry is concerned is a 
consequence, generally speaking, of unemployment. The large number 
of unemployed and the marked reduction of their purchasing power 
lead, as the studies of the League of Nations Committee concerned 
show, to some irregularity in regard to nutrition and critical conditions 



— 63 — 

in connection with the marketing of produce. In Turkey, on the other 
hand, there is no question of unemployment, particularly in recent 
times. 

Yugoslavia. 

General Remarks. 

Yugoslavia is an agricultural country where industry is only just 
beginning to develop. Having no important industrial centres or large 
numbers of factory workers, she has been spared the major shocks 
which the depression caused in most industrial countries by forcing 
States to assist millions of the unemployed in order to preserve social 
peace. On the other hand, the difficulties experienced by the rural 
population of Yugoslavia are due to the low prices of agricultural 
produce, excessive taxation and debt. These burdens, however, do not 
affect the actual food of the population, except in the poorer areas : 
Montenegro, Herzegovina, Dalmatia, part of Bosnia and, to some extent, 
Croatia and Slovenia. Less importance is therefore attached to the 
question of popular nutrition in Yugoslavia, a mainly agricultural 
country, than would be attached to it in manufacturing countries. 
Where an acute need was felt, the question was usually solved by local 
action. As this work is not done systematically and is not centralised, 
it is, of course, difficult to gather the information relating to the subject. 

The Nutrition Problem in Districts which are not Agriculturally 

Self-supporting. 

According to the statistics for 1932, out of 343 districts in Yugoslavia 
with 14,049,738 inhabitants, there are 129 districts with 4,566,985 
inhabitants in which more than 50% of peasant families have not 
sufficient food to await the next harvest and in which, therefore, 
nutrition is very inadequate. It is true that, in 1932, the wheat crop 
showed a heavy deficit on account of blight, a disease which is very 
widespread, especially in the producing districts. It cannot be said, 
however, that the above facts indicate an exceptional or temporary 
position, and it should be borne in mind that, in Yugoslavia, if the 
wheat harvest is inadequate, or if it fetches a high price, wheat is replaced 
by maize as the food of the population. Thus, while there was a shortage 
of wheat in the year to which these particulars relate, it was compensated 
by an abundant maize crop. As against a reduction in the wheat crop of 
7»o57.583 quintals in 1932, as compared with the average for 1930- 
1934, the maize crop showed a surplus of 7,556,100 quintals as compared 
with the average for the same period. These particulars may be taken 
as an approximate index of the standard of living of a considerable 
part of the Yugoslav peasants. 

For the purpose of comparing the above particulars with the general 
agricultural statistics, we might divide the territory of these 129 districts 



— 64 — 

into two separate groups. In one group, comprising 46 districts with 
2,042,705 inhabitants, the land would, in view of the extent and fertility 
of the cultivated area, suffice to feed the entire population living in 
them. But, on account of the impoverishment of a great part of the 
population and the existence of a well-to-do class in these districts, 
most of the inhabitants have too little land or no land at all. On the 
other hand, the well-to-do possess more land than they require for their 
vital needs. The other group comprises the districts which are not 
agriculturally self-supporting — that is to say, those in which the 
cultivable land is over-populated or too poor to feed the population 
living upon it. This second group consists of 83 districts with 2,524,280 
inhabitants. In a country like Yugoslavia where the agricultural 
depression has greatly reduced the purchasing power of the rural 
population and thus considerably restricted its possibility of satisfying 
its needs on the market, the arable land is one of the principal sources 
of food supply. Wherever this source is inadequate, the population 
is necessarily placed in a very difficult position. This is the case in the 
districts which are not agriculturally self-supporting. 

More detailed examination shows that, except for the banovine of 
Vardar, in which the density of the population is uniform, the districts 
which are not self-supporting in all the other banovines ^ are less densly 
peopled than the others. But, if we compare the area of the cultivated 
land with the total area, the position is quite different, as will be seen 
from the following data : 



Banovine 



Area 



Total 
Hectares 



00s 

— J3 si 

o ^- 



c 5 



Arable land 
Hectares 



-^ *j tc 

Hoc 

.2 £ o 
■o ffl a 

J3 .2 M 
■" ja ^ 

?? ^"^ 
O "^ 



Percentage of 

arable land in 

relation to the 

total area 



*J ^ tjD 

O O c 

U5 o o 

O •" 



•So 
0-5 

0) 2 



Percentage 
arable land per 
100 inhabitants 



J2 ^ bB 

o o .c 
V, t o 

3 






tn 



>a ^ 






c c 

OJ o 



Drave . 
Save . . 
Verbas . 
Primorje 
Drina . 
Zeta . . 
Morava . 
Vardar . 



575,700 


1,622,900 


885,300 


3,916,000 


542,900 


2,080,100 


1,161,500 


2,005,100 


869,000 


2,779.100 


1,988,800 


3,057,100 


337,400 


2,573,100 


474,100 


3,738,900 



62,926 
120,827 
116,521 
135,342 
139,716 
124,327 

65,358 

94,334 



306,625 
1,218,859 
630,168 
249,047 
788,883 
287,069 

717,313 

858,289 



10.93 


18.89 


25.26 


13.64 


3113 


32.55 


21.46 


30.30 


62.96 


11.65 


12.42 


27.12 


16.07 


28.39 


40.77 


6.25 


9-39 


23.98 


19-37 


27.88 


40.29 


19.89 


22.96 


47.62 



26.83 
44.40 
61.36 

27 20 
4950 
31.70 

49-50 

53-84 



It is therefore only in the non-self-supporting districts of the banovine 
of Verbas that the percentage of arable land per 100 inhabitants is greater 
than the average for the whole banovine ; on the other hand, the yield 



iThe banovine in Yugosla\ia is the largest administrative unit. 



— 65 — 

is smaller. Otherwise, there is less arable land in all the districts which 
are not self-supporting, as compared both with the area as a whole 
and with the population. On comparing these districts with the banovine 
of the Danube, which is known as the granary of Yugoslavia and in 
which 66.43% of the total area is arable (in the districts which are not 
self-supporting, the minimum is 6.25% and the maximum 21.46%) 
and which contains 86.6 hectares of arable land per 100 inhabitants 
(in the districts which are not self-supporting, the minimum is 23.98 
hectares and the maximum 62.96 hectares), it will be seen how great 
is the shortage of arable land in these districts. 

In the districts which are not agriculturally self-supporting, the arable 
land is not only limited in quantity in relation to the population, but 
is also inadequate in quality ; it is generally classified as poorer and as 
less fertile than in the other districts of the same banovines. Thus, the 
bano vines of Vardar, Drave, Zeta and Primorje, taken as a whole, 
provide much less wheat and maize per head of the population than 
would be required for their food even if the entire maize crop was used 
for feeding the population. But, as other articles are produced to a 
larger extent in these banovines, with the exception of the districts 
which are not self-supporting, the population procures the indispensable 
foodstuffs by selling these articles. 

In the districts which are not self-supporting, the yield of all the 
cereals produced is not even one kilogramme per inhabitant per day. 
The figures include, however, even barley and oats, which are not 
used for human food in the richer districts of Yugoslavia. The production 
of cereals in these districts, therefore, is far from sufficient for the needs 
of the population. 

Apart from bread, there are two vegetable products which play a 
very important part in the food of the rural population, especially 
in the poorer districts of the country — i.e., the potato and the 
cabbage. 

Cabbage production is only sufficient in the districts which are not 
self-supporting in the banovines of Drave and Save. There is also an 
abundant production of potatoes in these districts as compared with 
the districts which are not self-supporting in the other banovines, and 
especially in those of Morava and Vardar, where it is definitely 
inadequate. On comparing the above figures with the yield of wheat 
and maize in the districts which are not self-supporting in the banovines 
of Drave and Save, it will be observed that the lack of bread is to some 
extent made up by potatoes. 

In the banovines where the grain production is insufficient, cattle 
and industrial plants are of great importance ; after them come wine 
and fruit. By selling these products, the rural population in question 
is enabled to purchase consumption products which its own land 
does not produce in sufficient quantity. 

These forms of production are more developed in the richer 
districts than in the districts which are not self-supporting. The latter 



— 66 — 

take a greater share in the production of the following commodities : 
in the banovine of Verbas, plums ; in the banovine of Primorje, feverfew, 
wine, olives and Mediterranean fruits ; in the banovine of Drave, 
apples and nuts ; in the banovine of Zeta, feverfew and figs ; in the 
banovine of Morava, wine. But, if these figures are compared with the 
production of wheat, maize and potatoes in these poorer districts, 
it will be seen that the somewhat larger production of these articles 
is far from making good the low yield of substantial food products. 
This is strikingly evident in the districts which are not self-supporting 
in the banovine of Vardar, in which the production of tobacco is only 
one-tenth of that of the other districts, while no opium or cotton is 
produced. These articles, however, are of great importance for the 
banovine of Vardar, especially tobacco and opium. 

The figures for cattle-breeding^which show that the number of 
almost all kinds of live-stock (except pigs) is greater in the districts 
which are not self-supporting than in the other districts — might lead 
to wrong conclusions unless we also consider the production of fodder. 

It is noteworthy that, in all cases, except in the banovines of Drave 
and Save, the cultivation of fodder is of small importance. Without 
such cultivation, however, there can be no question of raising a good 
breed of live-stock. With the exception of the banovine of Drave and 
a part of the banovine of Save, in which live-stock is predominantly 
raised in stalls and stables, the other banovines have only mountain 
cattle of a poor breed, fed solely in the fields and on hay. 

In poor years, both cattle and human beings suffer in these districts. 
A worse effect is that cattle of such poor race and so badly fed give 
very little milk, while their value as meat is very low on account of 
the distance from the consumption centres. 

In considering the above facts, it must be borne in mind that, in the 
districts . which are not self-supporting, for instance, an ox does not 
weigh more than 150 to 200 kg. live weight, while it reaches 450 to 
600 kg. in the self-supporting districts. 

The exact position with regard to the nutrition of the inhabitants 
in these poorer districts of Yugoslavia, or rather their under-nourishment, 
can only be ascertained by exact methods — that is to say, by 
investigating life in the families. Such investigations have, however, 
only been made for a very small number of families, and cannot be 
regarded as applicable to regions as large as the districts which are not 
self-supporting. There are, however, indications of other kinds. The 
results of recruiting, for example, which grow constantly worse in these 
districts, show that the nutrition is inadequate. In this connection, 
we may also mention the low sanitary standard of the people in these 
districts, in which tuberculosis is particularly widespread. 

These facts are sufficient to show the gravit)' of the problem in these 
districts. The inhabitants, who usually live isolated in the mountains 
at a distance from the main roads and railways, suffer in two ways ; 
first, from the penury of nature in their districts, and, secondly, from 



— 67 — 

the necessity of making good the shortage of certain foodstuffs by 
the sale of those of which they have less need. This state of affairs 
is aggravated by the fact that most of the inhabitants are on such 
a low level of civilisation that they have scarcely begun to think of 
co-operative societies, by means of which they could sell their products 
to better advantage and improve their position. The products which 
they sell and buy have to bear heavy transport costs and middlemen's 
profits. As an illustration, we may state that, in the remote districts 
of the banovine of Zeta (Montenegro), a lamb costs only 3 to 5 dinars, 
as against 40 to 50 dinars at Belgrade, while the price of maize is 100% 
higher, and that of wheat 75% higher, than in the producing districts. 
A year ago, sixty to eighty eggs were sold for 10 dinars in the villages, 
while only twenty were obtainable for 10 dinars at Belgrade. 

Before the depression, various families in the districts which are not 
self-supporting made up for the shortage of their foodstuffs by money 
received from members of the family who had emigrated or who worked 
in the country itself, either in the forests or in industry, or who were 
employed in the large towns. The depression, however, has greatly 
reduced these sources of income and rendered them inadequate. The 
sums received from Yugoslav emigrants, for instance, amounted 
until 1929 to about 1,200,000,000 dinars a year, while they are now 
only 120,000,000. The forestry industry in Yugoslavia, which is also 
suffering from the depression, is in a state of stagnation ; this affects, 
in particular, the districts which are not self-supporting, since the large 
forests are situated in these districts — namely, in the banovines of 
Drave, Save, Verbas and Drina. The resulting poverty is of two kinds : 
a reduction in the possibility of employment and a decrease in wages. 
From 1930 to 1935, the average wages of forest workmen were : 

Year Dinars per month 

1930 688.00 

I93I 651.60 

1932 558.88 

1933 ........ 527II 

1934 500.22 

1935 491-75 

It will be seen that, in 1935, a forest workman earned scarcely more 
than 16 dinars per day. The table of earnings of a sawmill worker 
during the same period shows that the wages were barely sufficient to 
maintain life : 

Year Dinars per month 

1930 990.00 

I93I 918.00 

1932 801.88 

1933 602.17 

1934 481-83 

1935 479.39 



— 68 — 

In 1930, therefore, the daily earnings of a sawmill worker were much 
higher than those of a forest worker, while in 1935 they were lower. 
The only explanation of this fact is that the earnings of a forest worker 
cannot be lowered under the present level, since his work is harder 
than that of a sawmill worker. The gradual reduction in the earnings 
of the forest worker as opposed to the sudden reduction in the earnings 
of the sawmill worker shows that this assumption is well founded. In 
order to estimate the above particulars at their true value, it should be 
remembered that the timber industry was already in a state of depression 
in 1930, and that the difference between the earnings before the 
depression and at the present time is greater than appears from the above 
table. Naturally, the workers in the districts which are not self-supporting 
who work as employees only during the season, principally in agriculture, 
have difficulty in effecting any savings and in sending a little money 
to their struggling families. 

The problem of the districts that are not self-supporting is one of a 
large number of highly complicated problems with which Yugoslavia 
is faced. It is difficult to foresee the outcome. One thing is, however, 
certain : agriculture cannot serve as a basis for any radical change. 
Capital is not available to exploit the mineral wealth and the waterfalls. 
The only means of rescuing the inhabitants of these districts from famine 
would be to employ them in industry and its auxiliary branches. 



A SURVEY OF THE MEASURES TAKEN IN CERTAIN 

COUNTRIES BY GOVERNMENTS, PUBLIC AUTHORITIES 

AND NATIONAL ORGANISATIONS TO BRING ABOUT AN 

IMPROVEMENT IN THE NUTRITION IN VARIOUS 

SECTIONS OF THE POPULATION. 



CHAPTER I. 

MEASURES TAKEN ON BEHALF OF MOTHERS AND INFANTS. 

All civilised nations regard social hygiene as founded upon the welfare 
of mothers and children, and that, in turn, as based on rational feeding. 
The principle is universally recognised ; the means of putting it into 
effect (clinics, milk dispensaries, etc.) vary from country to country. 

Union of South Africa. 

(a) The larger local authorities in the Union of South Africa 
(Johannesburg, Cape Town, Pretoria, etc.) have for many years been 
conducting maternity and child welfare clinics for necessitous persons. 
At these, instruction is given by health visitors and medical officers in 
food values and feeding methods ; at most of them, food is issued in the 
form of fresh and dried milk, cod-liver oil and malt and, in some instances, 
meals are provided free to nursing mothers. 

(b) In many of the smaller towns where local authorities are not 
strong enough financially to conduct welfare clinics, national women's 
organisations run maternity and child welfare centres on similar lines 
to those of the larger local authorities. Such organisations are the 
National Council of Women (which operates throughout the whole 
Union), Afrikaanse Christelike Vroue Vereniging (Cape Province), 
Suid-Afrikaanse Vroue Federasie (Transvaal), Oranje Vroue Vereniging 
(Orange Free State) and the Natalse Christelike Vroue Vereniging (Natal). 

Argentine Republic. 

In June 1935, the Municipal Institute of Nutrition set up a social 
service for supervising and protecting healthy individuals (see Chapter 
VII). This service has a canteen which supplies food to pregnant 
women and nursing mothers whose means are too slender to provide 
them with an adequate diet. This is not regarded as charity but as 
social assistance. Assistance may be either partial or extend to the whole 
family, food being supplied to one or more of the other members of 
the family, as may be necessary to provide them with a rational diet 



— 70 — 

in accordance with the advice given by the Institute. This service is 
attached to the Consultation Service for the Nutrition of Healthy 
Persons. 

Australia. 

Federal Capital Territory. 

MOTHERCRAFT CENTRES. 

Advice on dietetics is the principal function of a fully trained nurse 
at the mothercraft centres. The total attendances have reached about 
4,000 per annum. Further, clinic emulsion of cod-liver oil is given to the 
necessitous, and, where these have an inadequate milk supply, a free 
issue of milk is arranged. Ante-natal dietetic advice is given to mothers, 
and the centres are generally a source for the dissemination of information 
on " protective foods ". Children over one year of age are utilising the 
service provided by the mothercraft centres to an increasing extent. 
For the year 1934-35, 1,000 such visits were made. A second nurse is 
being appointed to supervise the health of the pre-school child by 
visiting all homes, district by district, throughout the year. Dietetic 
inadequacies will be corrected and the Department of Health has 
available funds for the provision of extra milk for children when required. 

Weight charts are kept of all infants attending the mothercraft centres. 
In the examination of schoolchildren, particulars of general nutrition, 
weights and heights are taken, together with a full examination, inclusive 
of noting the signs of any deficiency diseases. On the whole, the children 
are overweight as compared with the table prepared for children of New 
South Wales over a wide experience. 

Tlie State of New South Wales. 

Food Distribution to Children of Unemployed. 

In order to supplement the diet of individuals who are dependent upon 
unemployment relief work or gratuitous food or clothing relief, and who, 
for any special reason, require extra nourishment, certain provision is 
made to meet such requirements. 

Expectant and nursing mothers, infants requiring special foods, 
children showing evidence of under-nourishment or convalescing from 
illness may, on presentation of satisfactory medical certificates, obtain 
extra foods, such as milk, eggs, green vegetables, cod-liver oil, etc. 
The cost to the Government of such additional foods approximates 
;{8o,ooo annually at the present time. 

The State of Victoria. 

Baby Centres. 

In Victoria, there are 150 baby health centres which are subsidised 
by the State Health Department and local authorities, at which expectant 
mothers and mothers with infants can obtain advice without charge. 



— 71 — 

The centres are under medical control and their advice is largely on 
the matter of diet and nutrition, the babies being weighed on each 
attendance and the weights being recorded on a card. Local authorities, 
by special grant, empower the nurse-in-charge to issue to mothers or 
children orders for dried milk powder or cow's milk in cases of under- 
nutrition. 

No Government or municipal provision is made for medical supervision 
of children between 2 to 5 years. A voluntary organisation known as the 
Kindergarten Union has established creches and kindergartens in all 
poorer-class districts in the metropolis. These institutions have a medical 
staff and undernourished children receive special attention. All children 
attending kindergartens have meals provided, which always include a 
ration of milk. 

The State of Tasmania. 

Child Welfare Associations. 

In Tasmania, the Child Welfare Associations at Hobart and 
Launceston, supported by Government aid, take practical measures to 
provide milk to mothers and infants in necessitous circumstances, and 
arrangements are being made to supply under-nourished schoolchildren 
throughout the State with milk daily. 

The State of Western Australia. 

In the case of persons in Western Australia in receipt of State relief, 
special additional relief for the purpose of providing extra milk to 
pregnant women and nursing mothers is given. 

Territory of Papua. 

In Papua, assistance to mothers, infants and schoolchildren remains 
mostly in the hands of the various missions, which are subsidised by the 
Government for this and other purposes. 

Mandated Territory of New Guinea. 

In New Guinea, attempts are being made by the missions (assisted 
by the Administration) to encourage expectant mothers and mothers 
of new-born children to attend clinics for treatment and advice, but 
progress is slow owing to native suspicion of interference with any 
variation of their own methods of dealing with {i) midwifery, by other 
than their own village midwives ; (n) supplementary diet of infants, 
other than that of the universal custom of use of foster-mothers, and 
carbohydrate foods masticated by the mothers or foster-mothers before 
being given to the infants. 

Attempts are also being made, but with little success, to change the 
practice of mothers of newly born infants returning to work in the 
gardens a day or two after delivery and working all through the lactation 
period. 



— 7^ — 

Austria. 

In Vienna, expectant mothers, if they or their families are on the 
welfare register, receive coupons for cheap milk (half a litre at lo groschen 
instead of the usual 23 groschen), from the seventh month of pregnancy 
onwards. There are at present 600 women in receipt of such coupons. 

(Certain additional particulars will be found in Chapter III below, 
page 107.) 

Belgium. 

In Belgium, the Law of September 5th, 19 19, instituting the " Oeuvre 
nationale de I'enfance " (National Child Welfare Organisation), made 
provision for the feeding of very young children (milk dispensaries), 
and also for the establishment of canteens for mothers, at which a 
rational and substantial meal was supplied to nursing and expectant 
mothers in indigent circumstances. These nutritional institutions were 
a continuation of the organisations set up during the war period, when 
nutrition in general was conspicuously defective. Their fortunes 
fluctuated as the attendance at these institutions gradually dwindled 
and in many places finally disappeared altogether. The canteens for 
mothers were wound up in 1927. 

The only organisations which continued to operate were a certain 
number of milk dispensaries ; but these, too, lost much of their value. 
At present, they still continue in certain places, but in a slightly different 
form. Milk is no longer distributed there, its place being taken by 
" special diets " prepared in accordance with the prescriptions of the 
medical officers in charge of infant clinics. 

In recent years, great efforts have been made, with satisfactory 
results, to enable the population, and the mothers on the registers of 
the infant clinics in particular, to procure properly treated and supervised 
milk. 

The supervision is exercised by the State services and those of the 
larger communes, and applies first to producers and secondly to retailers. 
Laboratory analyses make it possible to supply pure milk to institutions 
and individuals, either through the milk retailers or through the 
numerous dairies, the installation of which is constantly improving. 

As a special contribution towards the welfare of children suffering as 
a result of the economic crisis, the " Oeuvre nationale de I'enfance" 
has authorised the infant clinics to give such clients as have the best 
claims gifts of foodstuffs during the winter months, of which condensed 
milk is one of the chief. 

United Kingdom. 

(fl) In England and Wales, the local maternity and child welfare 
authorities (which comprise the councils of all administrative counties 
and county boroughs and of certain non-county boroughs, urban 
districts and rural districts) have power, by virtue of the Maternity 
and Child Welfare Act, 1918, to make arrangements, with the sanction 
of the Minister of Health, for providing extra nourishment for expectant 



— 73 — 

and nursing mothers, and for children under the age of 5 years who are 
not being educated in schools recognised by the Board of Education. 
Such arrangements, which apply where extra nourishment is required 
on grounds of health, are encouraged as a desirable ancillary provision 
of the maternity and child welfare service. In April 1930, local authorities 
who had undertaken this service with the Minister's approval were given 
a free hand to extend this form of provision to such an extent and in 
such manner as they might think desirable. 

Since 1929-30, there has been a large expansion of attendances at 
centres and ante-natal clinics. The attendances of children under 5 at 
centres increased, in England and Wales, from 7,173,782 in 1931 to 
8,049,900 in 1934 '' the attendances of women at ante-natal clinics from 
728,897 to 971,343, and the number of women attending them from 
204,472 to 253,108. In October 1934, local authorities were reminded 
of the powers which they possess to assist expectant and nursing 
mothers by the supply of milk, and were recommended to make full 
use of those powers. Milk may be supplied free or at less than cost 
price, according to the means of the applicant determined by a scale 
of income suitable to the circumstances of the locality ; and it may 
be supplied in the form of liquid or dried milk, the latter usually being 
supplied at infant welfare centres. 

At the end of 1934, out of 422 maternity and child welfare authorities 
in England and Wales, 393 were supplying milk free or at less than cost 
price to expectant mothers, 397 to nursing mothers and 398 to children 
under 5. A large proportion also supply foods other than milk, and some 
make arrangements for the supply of meals to expectant mothers and 
young children. Health visitors are also available to give advice to 
mothers on the feeding of children, and instruction is also given at 
maternity and child welfare clinics individually and collectively. 

Arrangements for the supply of milk and other foods are also made by 
charitable organisations, but the number of such organisations cannot 
be stated. 

(6) Local authorities in Scotland have all framed schemes of 
arrangements for maternity and child welfare. These schemes are 
financed partially from local rates and partially by means of a Government 
grant paid as part of a general Exchequer grant. The schemes of 
arrangements have all received the sanction of the central Department 
of Health. These schemes include provision for : 

(i) Health visitors who give instruction in suitable dietaries in the 
homes ; 

(n) Maternity and child welfare clinics, where, by talks, practical 
demonstrations and the distribution of leaflets, advice in proper 
nutrition is given ; 

{Hi) Food and milk to be given in necessitous cases under medical 
advice. Special attention is given to cases of malnutrition, rickets, 
etc. Cod-liver oil, malt and ultra-violet ray treatment may also be 
provided in suitable instances. 



— 74 — 

Bulgaria. 

The health centres attached to almost all the urban or rural health 
services in Bulgaria give advice and consultations free of charge on the 
care of children and their food in particular. The charitable organisations 
attached to the stations, and also the municipal authorities, assist poor 
mothers and children by distributing milk and foodstuffs. 

Estonia. 

Under the Social Assistance Law now in force in Estonia, the local 
communal administration undertakes to supply poor mothers with 
food during the ninth month of pregnancy and the six months of 
lactation following childbirth. Food is distributed to poor mothers and 
infants through the maternity consultation centres, of which there are 
now twenty-five. 

Finland. 

In Finland, the consultation centre in connection with the Government 
Clinic for Women gives instruction in matters relating to the dietary 
of mothers. The Exhibition of Workers' Welfare and Assistance, which 
is permanently open at Helsinki and has a travelling section in the 
industrial areas, has a special branch for nutrition questions, where the 
proper feeding of infants is explained orally and graphically. The 
Government allots grants to private societies working in the field of child 
welfare, and also for the improvement of the dietary of mothers and 
infants. 

In each of about 300 communes there is a nurse, who, when visiting 
families and consultation centres dealing with the care of infants, gives 
instruction to mothers in the care of children and also in dietary questions. 
In connection with these consultation centres, several communes have 
organised maternity departments for the benefit of expectant mothers, 
and these also give advice as to the proper feeding of mothers. Some 
communes and industrial establishments have vocational schools where 
girls are taught, in addition to the ordinary curriculum, the theory and 
practice of cookery and the care of small children. Future mothers and 
nursemaids are thus able to obtain an elementary knowledge of the 
subject. 

Some private societies and some industrial establishments maintain, 
like the communes, infants' consultation centres, to which a nurse and 
doctor are attached. The chief of these are two societies covering the 
whole country — the General Mannerheim League for Child Welfare 
and the People's Health Foundation — which maintain a large number of 
consultation centres and nurses' homes at their local sections throughout 
the country. 

The societies have also arranged courses for mothers in the care of 
children and diet. Pamphlets dealing with these questions have been 



— 75 — 

distributed in the people's homes by midwives and nurses. A committee 
appointed by the General Mannerheim League to frame a special diet 
for pregnant women is now engaged in composing a pamphlet on the 
question. 

The milk-distribution societies maintain centres at which, as in the 
centres already mentioned, advice is given to mothers ; milk mixtures 
ready for use are also distributed to poor mothers. There are also 
children's homes for mothers and children leaving maternity hospitals, 
where the mother and her child may remain as long as a fortnight, the 
mother being allowed to go out to work. The homes teach the mothers 
the proper way to prepare food. 

France. 

In a number of towns in France, milk dispensaries have been organised 
under medical supervision. Trained nurses prepare perfectly sterilised 
milk diluted according to the ages of the infants. The milk is subjected 
to regular bacteriological examination, and is sold to the parents at the 
lowest possible prices, often at prices below cost price, or even given 
gratuitously. Advice in the feeding of infants is given free. These milk 
dispensaries are dependent on donations, subsidies and the service of 
voluntary workers. 

Milk dispensaries of this kind are very numerous in the coal-mining 
districts of Northern France, where thousands of children benefit by them. 
Dairies are attached to them in which the milk is handled under the most 
hygienic conditions for feeding to new-born infants and older children. 
Various companies [e.g., the mines in Lens and Bethune) run farms with 
a view to securing pure milk. 

The expansion of social institutions like the milk dispensaries has 
been checked by the operation of social insurance, which provides 
allowances for mothers and children. Many employers have been 
compelled, in practice, to cease to contribute to work of this kind, 
since the Health Insurance Funds, to which they contribute, give their 
members an allowance for milk. 

Indigent children are received in day nurseries, where they are given 
food, under medical supervision, suitable to their state of health. 

Iraq. 

In Iraq, infant and child welfare clinics are established in the larger 
centres of population and are gradually being extended. Instruction 
in the feeding of infants and children is an important feature of these 
clinics. It is recognised that such work should be extended throughout 
the country and should penetrate, not only into the smallest villages, 
but also into the tribes. Trained women personnel for such work is a 
matter of slow growth in this country, but the necessity for this work is 
recognised. 



— 76 — 

Italy. 

In Ital5^ the National Maternity and Child Welfare Organisation has 
devoted attention to the problem of the nutrition of mothers and 
children, both as a collective problem and in its individual application. 

As regards individual assistance, that organisation entrusts to the 
medical ofHcers in charge of its pediatric and obstetric centres, established 
in thousands of communes, the task of giving, where necessary, useful 
advice in the matter of nutrition, even prescribing in certain cases special 
foodstuffs, which are distributed free by the welfare committees in 
each commune, to supplement the ordinary dietary of assisted persons. 
This includes the distribution of food tickets, cows' milk obtained 
according to specific regulations, powdered milk of national manufacture, 
breadcrumbs, alimentary pastes, semolina of rice or wheat (instead 
of flour), beet sugar, fruit juice (orange, lemon, grape, peach, pear, etc.), 
tomatoes, olive oil, malt, for the preparation, with sugar, of cows' milk. 

Milk, fresh or in powdered form, put up in bottles by the milk 
dispensaries, is of special importance. It supplements breast-feeding when 
necessary or, when absolutely necessary, replaces it. 

For collective purposes, the organisation has decided to adopt four 
types of dietaries for children and adolescents from 3 to 15 years receiving 
assistance in special institutions. This decision is the result of exhaus- 
tive studies by highly competent physiologists. 

The organisation has arranged for different types of meals which are 
provided in its kitchens for mothers and for pregnant or nursing 
women. These meals represent about 1,500 to 2,000 calories and 
correspond to the requirements of persons who can already obtain a 
certain dietary, simple though it be, in their own families. 

Similarly, much care has been devoted to the nutrition of children after 
weaning, in the day nurseries, with the object of supplementing the 
dietary which they obtain in their family. For infants, the calorie 
requirements in the form of foodstuffs must be calculated in proportion 
to the weight of the body in each particular case. 

The National Maternity and Child Welfare Organisation also concerns 
itself with the distribution of meals (soup and bread) for children of 
pre-school age attending infant schools ; it contributes directly towards 
the expenditure, which is on a vast scale. 

Netherlands. 

There are almost everywhere in the Netherlands dispensaries for 
pregnant women, infants at the breast and other young infants. Private 
societies distribute milk and eggs to indigent women in childbirth. 

Poland. 

There are 225 health centres in Poland under the Ministry of Public 
Assistance which include sections for maternity and infant welfare ; 
other welfare centres have been set up independently. 



— 77 — 

Milk dispensaries, of which there are 396, represent one of the most 
important forms of welfare activity. They prepare, on the instructions 
of the doctor, food mixtures (milk mixed with water and sugar) or 
medicinal mixtures (Moro, Klein-Schmidt, albumenised milk, etc.), 
and issue milk at the rate of half a litre per day per head. Some sections 
also supply such foods as fat, coffee, sugar, etc. 

The centres are attended by 121,500 children and 16,500 mothers, 
and, during 1934, 3. 403. 000 litres of milk were distributed to mothers 
and infants. 

There are also in Warsaw many small local organisations, such as 
the Association for Infant Welfare, which feeds about 330 children 
in four sections, and also organises creches in factories. 

Very good work has also been done by institutions in the nature of 
mutual provident organisations. The " Railwayman's Family " is 
one of the most active. During the year 1934-35, this organisation 
fed 900 children in the eight principal railway centres, by giving 166,336 
free meals, apart from money grants to very poor widows. 

Under an Order of the Ministry of Social Assistance, all undertakings 
employing one hundred women or more are obliged to maintain creches. 
During the day (from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.), the children are fed either in 
the creche or by their mothers, who visit them for the purpose. In 
1935, there were thirty-seven creches in State factories and forty- 
four creches in private factories. The number of women employed 
was 28,968 and the number of children in the creches 610. 



R 



oumania. 



The nutrition of mothers and young children is watched over by 
child doctors at consultation centres established by dispensaries and 
hospitals, which are visited by healthy as well as by sick children. 
Home visits are paid by nurses, who give advice on feeding. Similar 
consultations are held at schools of child welfare in maternity homes 
and obstetrical wards. There are special child dispensaries in the towns 
of Bucharest, Cluj, lassi and Timishoara. 

The number of children whose nutritional condition is thus supervised 
is very small by comparison with the numbers throughout the country 
which escape control. The district doctor, in whose charge these children 
come, has to look after a population varying from 10,000 to 37,000 
persons, and the result is that health control is inadequate or non- 
existent for the great majority of Roumanian children, especially in 
the country. 

The care of abandoned children is a matter for the State which has 
seven centres for child protection and is about to establish four new 
ones. Each centre has an institvite and a home colony in which the 
children can be placed. More than 3,000 children are maintained in 
these centres and colonies. 



— 78 — 

The Child Welfare Institute at Bucharest established by Royal Decree 
is charged with the responsibility for co-ordinating the activities of 
the State and private organisations, which operate on lines parallel to 
the State undertakings. Among these the Principele Mircea Society 
and the Association for Housewives carry on important work for child 
protection, as well as a whole series of other bodies. 

For working mothers, creches are established in certain places near 

factories. 

Switzerland. 

< 

The number of philanthropic associations for mothers and infants at 
the breast is very large. 

In almost all cities there are (in addition to dispensaries and maternity 
hospitals) nurseries which receive and rear infants, infant homes and 
creches, to which working mothers can entrust their children during the 
day, together with milk distribution centres, which prepare food for 
infants with careful attention to quantities, and which give free advice, 
etc. 

All these organisations are under medical supervision. They are 
financed by donations and grants and frequently by modest contributions 
from the parents of the children concerned, while they command the 
services of volunteer workers. 

United States of America. 

In the United States, assistance to mothers and infants has been 
developed for a number of years through the activity of the Federal 
Children's Bureau working in the States through the child hygiene 
divisions and in local areas through infant welfare agencies. This work 
will be further expanded under the Social Security Act. 

Certain relief agencies, both public and private, have at times 
distributed a part of their relief in kind. This has been especially true 
of milk and milk products, and local welfare agencies have frequently 
had funds for distribution of milk to children and nursing mothers. 
Studies show the improvement in the nutritive value of diets as well 
as an increase in the total amount of food consumed with such food 
distribution (see also Chapter VII, page 257). 

Yugoslavia. 

Homes for Infants and Young Children. 

Six of these homes were opened before the war by the Government 
and by private persons ; three were opened during the war and twenty- 
one after the war. 

The modern homes for infants and mothers are the following : 

Home for Infants and Mothers of Her Majesty Queen Marie, at 
Ljubljana, with 30 cots for infants ; it is subsidised by the Government 
and by private associations. 



— 79 — 

Home of the Mothers' Union at Belgrade, with 90 cots for infants 
and young children ; it is maintained at the expense of the Government 
and of private associations. 

Municipal Home for Mothers and Children at Zagreb, connected 
with the Municipal Dispensary for Children and Children's Colonies ; 
it has 37 cots for infants ; 

Government Home for Mothers and Infants at Novi Sad, with 16 
cots for infants. 

Section of the Working Women's Refuge at Belgrade for mothers and 
infants, with 12 cots for the latter. 

In addition, there is a consulting clinic at Belgrade belonging to the 
Russian Red Cross, for children up to the age of 14 years. 

The National Women's Association at Split has a milk kitchen and 
a consulting clinic for mothers. 

The " Crust of Bread " at Novi Sad has a dispensary, a kitchen and 
a day-nursery for children. 

The Home for Railway Employees at Zagreb contains twenty-five 
cots for children up to the age of 2 years ; it is maintained by private 
persons. 

The Home for Foundlings at Split, with 12 cots, belongs to the 
Government Hospital. 

The Home of the Mother's Union at Sarajevo is subsidised by the 
municipality. It also receives unmarried mothers in an advanced state 
of pregnancy. 

Homes for Young Children. 

The Orphanage of Jelacic, with 120 cots, has a section for children 
from 5 to 7 years. It is maintained at the cost of the Banat. 

Similarly, the Banat Home for Children at Ljubljana has two sections, 
one for children from i to 3 years and the other for children from 3 to 
7 3^ears, with 20 cots. 

The Children's Home, " Srpska Majka " at Belgrade receives children 
from 3 to 7 years. It contains 40 cots and is maintained at the cost 
of the " Srpska Majka " (Serbian mother) Association and the town 
council. This association has, in addition, three consulting clinics in 
the villages. 

There are seventeen other children's homes which admit young 
children and children of school age. 

The former Foundlings Home, with 45 cots, principally admits 
illegitimate children. 

There are also 102 orphanages for children of school age, 84 of which 
are private and 18 governmental, housing 4,800 children from 6 to 
16 years. 

The milk kitchens are mostly connected with consulting clinics for 
mothers and with polyclinics. There are eleven in Yugoslavia. 



— So — 

The Milk Distributing Centre was founded by French soldiers from 
the Salonika front. It is subsidised by the French and Yugoslav 
Governments. 

There are also many day nurseries for infants and young children, 
especially at Belgrade, Zagreb and other large towns. Similar 
institutions are beginning to be established in the villages. 



CHAPTER II. 

MEASURES TAKEN ON BEHALF OF CHILDREN OF SCHOOL 

AGE AND YOUNG PEOPLE. 

In a number of countries, children attending school can obtain food 
from school canteens, school kitchens or school soup kitchens. These 
are usually provided or subsidised by the municipal authorities for the 
benefit of children of parents in indigent circumstances, or parents who 
are prevented by their work from giving proper midday meals to their 
children. 

Milk distribution, which was originally the simplest form of school 
meals, is tending to become the most usual form for the supply 
of additional food, since milk has been recognised to possess exceptional 
qualities as a protective food. Milk distribution has shown the effects 
of a rational diet on the physical and mental development of the child. 

Union of South Africa. 

A governmental scheme for supplying poor children with free milk 
was inaugurated in November 1935. About 12,000 children in the 
peninsula (boys and girls, European and coloured) each received half 
a pint of milk a day 

The scheme will gradually be extended to all the schools in the 
peninsula. By the time the whole scheme is in operation throughout 
South Africa next year, it is estimated that 425,000 children will 
participate in the distribution of the milk. This means that the 
consumption of milk by these children will total more than 5,000,000 
gallons a year.^ 

Argentine Republic. 

Action by Central Authority. 

The National Council for Education has, for a long time past, organised 
free canteens, at which lunches are served to poor children. Institutions 
for supplying them with milk, bread and hot drinks have been in existence 
for more than thirty-five years. 



^ See below, Chapter V, page 147. 



— 8i — 

Dr. Ramon J. Carcano, who was at that time Director of the National 
Council for Education, undertook the systematic organisation of these 
activities and gave a great impetus to the movement ; the Municipal 
Institute of Nutrition drew up a nutrition manual for schools, and 
enlisted the co-operation of the military garrisons in the Argentine. 
This was in 1932 ; on August 4th of that year. Law No. 11597 was 
promulgated, which provided funds by means of a tax on the prizes 
won at horse-races at the national race-course, the yield from which 
is over one million pesos. In 1932, these funds were sufficient to feed 
6,800 schoolchildren ; last year, more than 10,000 children were fed 
in twenty school canteens and two canteens for mothers. According 
to the data for last year, meals were given to 3,936 children in the 
barracks in various parts of the Republic. 

In the schools run by the State, there are co-operative societies 
supported by the local inhabitants, which organise the distribution 
of milk, etc. ; according to the 1932 figures, the services of these 
co-operative societies were utilised by 93,899 children in the Federal 
capital alone. 

The Central Authority provides holiday colonies for weakly children, 
of whom over 30,000 are sent to the sea or the mountains each year, 
where they are given board and lodging during the summer months. 
Similar holiday colonies are run by the Central Authority for the children 
of army officers. 

Action by Local Authorities. 

The municipality of the city of Buenos Aires also runs nine holiday 
colonies for weakly children, which are open during the three summer 
months. They have accommodation for 12,000 children, which enables 
more than 30,000 to benefit each year. The children remain in the colonies 
during the day and receive three meals — breakfast, lunch and dinner — 
free of charge. 

The municipality also runs three children's canteens, open all the 
year round, each of which can accommodate 150 children, and day 
nurseries with accommodation for 200, where mothers can leave their 
children for the whole day. 

Decree No. 7279, promulgated on December 31st, i935> provided 
for the establishment of a canteen with accommodation for 500 children 
in each of the nine municipal holiday colonies. These canteens are 
reserved for primary schoolchildren of both sexes ; in accordance with 
the decree, the first three canteens must be opened within ninety days 
in the poorest parts of the town. 

The Public Assistance Department of Buenos Aires possesses a seaside 
colony at Necochea, which admitted about 3,500 children this season. 

The Government of the province of Buenos Aires has established 
at La Plata a holiday colony with accommodation for 250 children, and 
another at Tandil, with accommodation for 150 children. The local 
municipality and the co-operative associations have jointly organised 



— 82 — 

the following holiday colonies : at Avellenada, with accommodation 
for Soo children ; at Quilmes, for 200 ; at Sierra de la Ventana, for 
120 (this is a residential colony) ; at Lomas de Zamora, for 200, and at 
San Isidro, for 105 children. 

The school boards of certain provinces run public canteens at which 
lunches are served free of charge to poor schoolchildren. The largest 
one is that organised by the school board of the province of Buenos 
Aires. 

Australia. 

The State of New South Wales. 

Child Endowment. 

Within the Commonwealth industrial jurisdiction and that of all 
States except New South Wales, the living wage is based on the 
requirements of man, wife and two or three children. But the industrial 
law of New South Wales prescribes man, wife and one child as the family 
unit on whose requirements the living wage shall be determined. And 
the State, in recognition of the limitation thus implied, pays child 
allowances without distinction of occupational grade. When such 
payments are made, the income limits are strict. The total income, 
including the child allowances paid by the State, may not exceed the 
living wage plus 5s. for each dependent child in excess of one. 

Ascertainment of Malnutrition. 

For many years, the state of nutrition of schoolchildren has been closely 
investigated by the medical staff of the Education Departement. In the 
course of a routine medical examination of 80,000 children in the 
metropolitan district of Sydney by the school medical officers, the 
incidence of notifiable malnutrition was 1%. In a recent intensive survey 
of 2,658 children, the incidence in two schools was found to be 2.3% 
and 1.2% respectively. Such instances of malnutrition are, of course, 
not necessarily due to lack of food, but may be due to the interaction of 
a number of factors, such as ignorance of parents, unsatisfactorj'^ selection 
of foodstuffs, neglect of hygienic requirements, constitutional or other 
defects, causing inability to assimilate food, or even the presence of 
some disease. 

The State of Victoria. 

Care of Schoolchildren. 

All children attending Government and State schools are medically 
examined at regular intervals by Government school medical officers. 
Cases of anaemia and malnutrition are noted and reported to the teacher 
for special attention. The Government has for several years given a 
subsidy to provide for an issue of milk to schoolchildren during the winter 



— 83 — 

months. " Mothers' Clubs", which are associations of the children's 
mothers, have collected funds and devoted them largely to supplementing 
this milk ration for children who showed signs of malnutrition. 

The State of Western Australia. 

The means by which the State authorities in Western Australia have 
been able to gain a general view of the presence or otherwise of 
malnutrition amongst children has been the medical examination of 
schoolchildren by departmental officers, and this has not brought to Ught 
undue prevalence of malnutrition amongst children. It is possible, 
however, that parents have frequently deprived themselves of proper 
food in order that the children shall not suffer. Any cases of malnutrition 
are notified to the parent by the medical officer, when discovered. 

The principle of supplying free milk to children in schools has not yet 
been adopted, but approximately 4,000 eight-ounce bottles of milk 
are delivered at metropolitan schools daily at a cost of ^d. per week to 
each child. 

Federal Capital Territory. 

The regular medical inspection of schoolchildren is carried out by 
the medical officer of health, and all defects, including cases of children 
who are more than 10% under weight, are reported to their medical 
advisers or the hospital for treatment. In 1935, the figures for the two 
largest schools as compared with the New South Wales Education 
Department's height-weight table indicate that the " entrants " boys 
were slightly over % lb. over weight ; the "entrants" girls i lb. under 
weight ; the "leavers " boys 4 lb. over weight ; and the " leavers" girls 
I lb. over weight. Although no free issues of food are made, advice by 
pamphlet is available on nutrition, the " protective " foods being 
stressed. 

The State of South Australia. 

During recent years, when unemployment was heavier than usual, 
some philanthropic institutions provided a hot meal for needy 
schoolchildren, and, in connection with some of the State schools, 
parents who are able pay a small sum each week, which is supplemented 
by the " Mothers' Clubs ", to enable a supply of milk to be given to 
infant children each day. 

Austria. 

The Feeding of Children. 

Practical measures are taken by provincial and local authorities in 
Austria, and also by private organisations, in the endeavour to ensure the 
feeding of children. 

In the Federal capital, Vienna, these activities take many forms : 



— 84 - 

Meals for Schoolchildren. 

Every weekday, and even during the holidays, children of school age 
are given a hot ready-prepared midday meal of meat and vegetables 
and a sweet, or meat with bread and a sweet in sixty-two canteens 
situated on school premises. A few children who have left school also 
share these meals. Most of the children receive the food free of charge. 
The average number of participants is 8,200. Similarly, about 900 
children are given a midday meal of the same type in three large 
municipal homes. 

In addition, schoolchildren who attend homes conducted by 
associations are allowed by the Vienna municipality grants of money, 
graduated according to their parents' earnings, which are paid to the 
organisations conducting the home and from which these organisations 
supply the children with a hot midday or afternoon meal. On October 
1st, 1935, about 5,300 children were receiving such relief. 

Meals at Kindergarten Schools. 

In ninety-two municipal kindergartens, about 4,000 children from 
3 to 6 years of age receive every working-day a breakfast of cocoa and 
rolls and a two-course lunch of a size suited to their age. Most of the 
children are given the food free, or on payment of only a few groschen. 

Milk Rations for Children of the Unemployed. 

Children of the unemployed who are on the registers (Zustandig) 
of Vienna receive during their first year of life half a litre of milk free 
daily, if the wage-earner has been at least twenty weeks out of work. 
About 1,800 children are at present benefiting by such relief. 

Food Packets. 

As part of the current monthly poor relief given by the Vienna 
municipality to children at home, "food packets" are distributed 
containing : y<i kg. of flour, i kg. loaf sugar, 14 kg. lard, ^ kg. wheat- 
meal or I kg. first quality beans. A family receives up to seven food 
packets monthly, according to the number of children. On an average, 
25,800 packets are issued per month. Large families receive, once a year, 
in addition to the above regular relief, a larger allowance, part of which 
is usually given in the form of food. 

(Some particulars of assistance given in other parts of Austria will 
be found in the next chapter, pages 107 and 108). 



— 85 — 

Means OF ascertaining the State of Nutrition. 

In the Federal capital, Vienna, statistics are available regarding the 
level of nutrition as ascertained on inspecting children in compulsory 
schools and municipal kindergartens. The condition is classified as 
" good ", " average " and " bad ". The following were the results 
of investigations recently made : 



Year 


Good 

% 


Average 
% 


Bad 

% 


1925-26 .... 


23.6 


50-5 


259 


1928-29 .... 


26.4 


49 


24.6 


1930-31 .... 


30.8 


45-6 


23.6 


1932-33 .... 


32.8 


45 


22.2 


1934-35 .... 


31 


46 


23 



Children up to 6 years of age belonging to the poorer population and 
the wards of the Youth Office have their state of health and nutrition 
regularly tested by doctors at the maternal welfare centres. Similarly, 
expectant mothers belonging to the poorer sections of the population 
are kept under supervision at the consultation centres for expectant 
mothers. 

Older children (from 6 to 14 years of age) at child welfare institutions 
are given breakfast, midday meal and supper, and in the middle of the 
morning and afternoon they receive bread, the average daily ration 
of which is 250 grammes of black bread and 70 grammes of white. 
A special point is made of food that is rich in vitamins (extra fresh 
fruit). The daily supply of food, including bread, has, on an average, 
2,000 to 2,300 calories of nutritional value. The diet of younger children 
is similar to that of the older children, 1,600 calories being the average 
nutritional value per head per day. In the case of this category, a special 
point is made of food that is as rich as possible in vitamins (green 
vegetables, fruit, etc.). 

The provincial administration in Carinthia makes a special point 
of ascertaining the level of nutrition of children below school age and 
those of school age ; most of the former are dealt with at the maternal 
welfare centres and kindergartens, while all children of school age are 
inspectsd in the schools. In view of the conditions obtaining in the open 
covmtry, it is extremely difficult to cover the rest of the population, and 
particularly to grade them by groups according to occupation and 
income. 

Medical inspection of children is also carried out at public health 
centres and by school doctors in other provinces. 

Belgium. 

In Belgium, school meals were instituted on a general scale during the 
war in the communes of the occupied territory. All schoolchildren 
received a couqiie (sweet roll), which was greatly appreciated in the 



— 86 — 

prevailing bread shortage. Some communes went further and gave the 
children, in addition, a complete midday meal. The Law of September 
5th, 1919, instituting the National Child Welfare Organisation (Oiuvre 
nationale de I'enfance), retained the principle of school meals, and also 
made provision for canteens for delicate children. 

As the economic situation changed and bread again became plentiful, 
the national couque lost its value and was gradually abolished in the 
majority of communes. In 1923, school meals were given only in certain 
places, and the Government accordingly struck out of the budget the 
grants made for the purpose, retaining only the grants for special food 
for delicate children. The grants for this latter purpose were abolished 
on financial grounds at the end of the school year 1930-31. There still, 
however, remain some thirty canteens for delicate children in large 
cities (Brussels, Charleroi, etc.). Their cost is met by the communes, 
with the aid, in many cases, of charitable organisations. 

From replies received by the Belgian Government from twenty 
large communes, it appears that ten communes supply a complete meal; 
three, a milk ration ; two, milk and soup ; one, soup and bread ; one, 
milk and a complete meal. As a rule, the meals are provided both for 
delicate and for necessitous children, in public and private schools 
alike. In certain communes, the delicate children receive more 
abundant meals than the necessitous children. 

The distribution is frequently free in the case of necessitous children. 
In other cases, there is a special scale under which it is possible to 
determine the degree of indigence of the children. The children of 
unemployed workers come under the scheme of free distribution. 

The position in regard to school meals in the commune of Ixelles, the 
school canteens of which are regarded as a model, may be taken as an 
example. The following are admitted to the school meals and to the 
canteens for delicate children : children from 3 to 14 years of age 
attending free schools, children of over 14 years of age who continue 
to attend a free primary school, young people under 18 years of age 
attending a free vocational school, and children from 3 to 14 years of 
age who are excused school attendance by a medical inspector. 

Down to the end of December 1927, the local committee organising the 
food distribution never asked for any contribution on the part of the 
children attending the canteens ; but since that date, a small charge 
has been made. 

United Kingdom. 

Medical Inspection. 

The Education Act lays upon local education authorities the duty of 
medically inspecting all public elementary schoolchildren at least three 
times during their elementary education — on admission to school, on 
their attaining the age of 8 years, and on their attaining the age of 



— 87 — 

12 years. School medical officers supply the Board of Education with a 
return of all defects, including malnutrition, found at these inspections. 
The Board also recommends that school medical officers should 
supplement these inspections by periodical nutritional surveys of all 
children not receiving meals, and that those receiving meals should be 
kept under medical supervision. 

In Scotland, there is a routine medical inspection of schoolchildren 
in three selected age groups — 5 to 6, 9 to 10, and 13 years — while children 
attending beyond the age of 14 years receive examination. This medical 
examination includes the assessment of the state of nutrition of the 
individual. Heights and weights are recorded and an assessment of the 
nutritional standard is made. 

School Meals (England and Wales). 

Since 1906, local educational authorities have had the power to provide 
meals for children attending public elementary schools who are unable 
by reason of lack of food to take full advantage of the education 
provided for them. These powers are defined in Sections 82-85 of the 
Education Act, 1921. Meals are supplied free to children whose parents 
are necessitous ; but, if the parents can afford it, they are expected to 
pay the whole or part of the cost. 

The method of selecting the children has varied in different areas from 
selection solely by the application of an income test to selection by the 
authority's medical officers. The Board has emphasised the view that 
selection by reference to an incoine test alone is not justifiable, and that 
regard should be had to the special circumstances of the child. The 
need of a child for feeding should not be considered only upon an 
application from the parent ; the authority should themselves take 
steps to ascertain what children are in need of feeding, by inviting reports 
from the members of the School Medical Service or the Public Health 
Service, from teachers, school nurses, school attendance officers and 
others in regular contact with the children from day to day. Provision 
may properly be made for any child who shows any symptoms, 
whether educational or physical, however slight. Whatever methods 
of selection may be adopted, all children selected should be seen by the 
school medical officer, who will recommend the nature and extent of the 
supplementary feeding required and any other appropriate treatment, 
and will keep under review the condition and progress of all children 
receiving meals. The Board further recommends that authorities should 
consider the advisability of holding periodical nutritional surveys at 
which all children not receiving meals would be passed under review. 

The meals supplied by local education authorities vary from one area 
to another. The most usual provision is of a midday dinner, but some 
of the authorities provide breakfasts, dinners and teas. Elsewhere, 
supplementary nourishment is given in the form of milk or cod-liver oil 
and malt extract. The total number of children getting meals, of 
whatever kind, is about 400,000. 



— 88 — 

Milk in Schools. 

Much evidence has been accumulated in recent years of the value of 
a supplementary ration of milk in addition to the ordinary diet, both for 
normal and malnourished children. For a number of years, most valuable 
work was done by the National Milk Publicity Council in encouraging 
the drinking of milk by schoolchildren. Under the auspices of this 
Council, arrangements were made directly between the teachers and the 
dair^-men, the local education authority taking a benevolent interest 
but accepting no financial responsibility. This movement received a 
great impetus on the introduction, in October 1934, o^ 'the Milk in 
Schools Scheme, under the auspices of the Milk Marketing Board. It 
was decided as part of the Government's policy for the utilisation of 
surplus milk to place the sum of ;^5oo,ooo at the disposal of the Milk 
Marketing Board in each of the years 1934 ^^^ i935 to be employed 
mainly in a scheme for supplying schoolchildren with milk at a halfpenny 
instead of a penny for one-third of a pint. The scheme came into force 
on October ist, 1934, ^^d. at once almost trebled the number of children 
receiving milk on payment in the schools by the extension of 
arrangements on a voluntary basis similar to those previously promoted 
by the National Milk Publicity Council. There was also at the same time 
a great expansion in the free provision of milk meals made by local 
education authorities under the Education Act, 192 1. At the end of 
March 1935, some two and a half million scholars in elementary schools 
were paying for a daily ration of milk. To this should be added over 
130,000 children or young persons paying for their ration in schools other 
than elementary, and some quarter of a million children receiving milk 
free — a total not far short of 3,000,000. It may be added that the scheme 
was also extended to junior instruction centres recognised by the 
Ministry of Labour, and a number of authorities have availed themselves 
of its benefits for the boys and girls attending these institutions. 

Close attention is given to the character of the milk supplied, especially 
with regard to pasteurisation and the nutritive value of differing 
quantities. Investigations are now being carried out by a special body 
composed of representatives of the public departments and authorities 
concerned, including the Medical Research Council and the Rowett 
Research Institute, to study the effects of the feeding of different amounts 
of raw or pasteurised milk to children receiving : (a) no milk ; (&) one 
pint of pasteurised milk ; (c) two-thirds of a pint of pasteurised milk ; 
{d) two-thirds of a pint of raw milk. This investigation is being conducted 
by four full-time medical officers in elementary schools in about five 
selected areas. 

School Meals in Scotland. 

Under the Milk Act, 1934, Milk Marketing Boards in Scotland have 
framed schemes of arrangements which have been approved by the 
Secretary of State for Scotland for the supply of milk to schoolchildren 



— 89 — 

throughout the school year. Approximately 400,000 children out of a 
total number of 800,000 receive one-third of a pint of Grade A (Tuberculin 
Tested) milk each school day (200 days in a year) at a cost of a halfpenny 
where they are able to pay, and free in necessitous cases. At four 
juvenile instruction centres, milk is supplied under the same conditions 
to young persons attending the centres. 

The Education (Scotland) Act, 1908, empowers education authorities 
to provide accommodation, apparatus, equipment and service for the 
preparation and supply of meals to pupils attending schools within their 
district. Section 6 of the Act places upon education authorities the duty 
of providing meals in cases where a child is unable to take full advantage 
of the education provided owing to lack of food, if the parent is unable by 
reason of poverty or ill-health to make sufficient provision and the 
authority is satisfied that such provision will not be made by voluntary 
agencies. 

The provision which authorities are empowered to make is not limited 
to necessitous children, but may cover any or all of the children 
attending any school. Where the school attended is at a considerable 
distance from the pupils' homes, education authorities often find it 
advantageous to make arrangements for the provision and supply of 
meals and to charge pupils whose parents are not necessitous a sum 
sufficient to meet the cost of the food supplied to them, no account being 
taken of the cost of preparation and service. 

The following statement gives the number of children provided for 
and the number of meals supplied for the year ended July 31st, 1935 • 

Number of Number of 

children meals 

(a) Meals primarily for children suffering 

from lack of food 25,100 5,895,500 

{b) Meals primarily for other children as a 

matter of convenience 29,200 3,209,600 

For the most part, the provision made consists of one meal at midday. 
In some areas, the meals under (6) above are supplied during the winter 
months only. 

The nature of the midday meal varies from a simple meal of soup 
and bread to a well-balanced meal of two complete courses with a 
different menu for each day of the week. 

In addition to the provision of meals indicated above, the education 
authorities are responsible for the provision of supplements to diet, 
such as cod-liver oil, extract of malt, etc., for debilitated children, as 
part of the medical services, and also for arrangements for a daily 
supply of milk to children in the schools. 

There are about eighty residential schools for boys and girls in England 
and Wales which are under the control of the Home Office and are 
approved for the reception of children and young persons sent to them 
by courts under approved school orders. The schools are of three grades : 



— 90 — 

junior, 10-15 years; intermediate, 13-17 years; and senior, 15-19 
years. 

The average in these schools includes half a pint of whole milk per boy 
or girl per day. Some senior and intermediate country schools maintain 
a good standard of health with one-eighth of a pint or little over ; but 
comparatively few stand as low as this, three-quarters to four-fifths of 
a pint is the usual allowance, whilst some of the junior schools use a full 
pint per head. 

Bulgaria. 

In Bulgaria, free dining-rooms for schoolchildren have been opened. 
The poorer children and, when possible, all the children attending the 
elementary schools take their meals there. 



Czechoslovakia. 

(For distribution of milk to the children of unemployed persons, see 
next chapter, page no). 

Denmark. 

In Denmark, the communal authorities are entitled under social 
legislation to arrange for school meals during the winter months, and this 
is done to an increasing extent. 



Estonia. 

The dietary of children in Estonia is in the hands of iocal relief 
committees. Nutrition centres have been set up in which children can 
obtain one hot meal a day eaten on the spot. Food in the dry state is sent 
to children who cannot come to the centre themselves, owing to their 
being too young, on account of sickness, or for any other reason. As 
unemployment declined, exceptional relief measures were reduced. 

The following numbers of children were fed in this way : 1931-32, 
26,010 ; i932-33» 28,694 ; 1933-34. 9,589 ; 1934-35. 6,074. The relief 
scheme for the period 1935-36 provides for the feeding of 4,580 children. 

Schoolchildren can obtain a meal at school during the recreation 
interval. The children pay full price, or 50%, or the meal may be given 
free at the expense of the school, according to the parents' situation. 

Among the private organisations participating in the provision of 
food to children may be mentioned, in particular, the child welfare 
societies, which provide daily, throughout the year, hot meals for some 
of the poorer children. The organisations for collective assistance are 
chiefly active in the matter of relief for adults ; they distribute food to 
adults through their nutrition centres, or provide parcels of dry foods. 



— 91 — 

France. 

In France, the distribvition of milk is a matter for the municipalities, 
not the State. In the north of France, there has been milk distribution 
for two years past in many schools, 25 centilitres being given at the 
morning break and the same in the afternoon. In certain schools, this 
distribution has been in existence for two years past, the parents 
contributing in varying degrees. The cup of milk tends to take the place 
of sweets, which some of the children used to bring in their pockets 
for their " tea " {i.e., in break). 

Italy. 

School assistance in the form of food naturally varies according to 
local requirements, the class of school, the season and the circumstances 
of the children. 

It is provided by provincial committees of the National Balilla 
Association, through the School Welfare Committees. 

To take an example, the Rome School Welfare Committee has arranged 
two types of school meal, one for open-air schools attended by children 
who need special care owing to tuberculous antecedents in the family 
(this scheme provides complete meals), and the other for elementary 
schools (only soup with rice or macaroni, etc., and bread). This latter 
meal is served free of charge to children in the first grade, while those in 
the second and third grades pay contributions of 0.30 and 0.50 lira 
respectively. 

In the present case of schools under the Rome School Welfare 
Committee, the schemes have been drawn up with the approval of the 
Rome Health Bureau, and special agreements have been made. There 
are numerous agreements between the authorities of the National 
Balilla Association, the local School Welfare Committees, and the 
municipal authorities. The " Ente Opere Assistenziali " (Organisation 
of Assistance Associations) of the Fascist Party also concerns itself in 
this work, both directly and by contributing to this form of assistance 
in consideration of such special circumstances as unemployment or 
poverty due to other causes. 

In some of the larger centres, the School Welfare Committee also 
arranges — chiefly in summer — camps in the mountains or by the seaside 
on the same lines as those organised by other Fascist bodies. These 
camps follow schemes of diet in which particular interest is taken because 
the public authorities attach the highest importance to the rational 
feeding of children. 

Latvia. 

Feeding of Pupils in Riga Schools. 

-The Riga municipality has arranged for hot meals to be distributed 
to pupils in all elementary schools. In 1935, the total number of 
elementary school children in Riga was 30,740, of whom 19,397 shared 



— 92 — 

these common meals. Of these 19,397 schoolchildren, 11,407 were fed 
free at the cost of the municipality. The total number of rations 
distributed in 1935 was 3,315,014, of which 1,902,192 were given free. 
The cost of a ration is about 15 centimes. The distribution of hot meals 
costs the Riga municipality about 300,000 lats a year. The School 
Board decides when meals are to be given free. 

Netherlands. 

Meals are given to schoolchildren in the autumn and winter where 
required. The number varies greatly. At The Hague at the present time, 
there are only some 160 children in receipt of free meals at the expense 
of the municipality. In other towns — for example, Amsterdam — the 
number of meals given to schoolchildren is very much larger. 

Poland. 

In Poland, the Ministry of Public Worship and Education is the 
central authority which co-ordinates assistance to schoolchildren through 
regional authorities (kuratorinnis) and heads of schools. Special parents' 
committees are set up for the purpose of organising additional meals in 
schools. 

The necessity of giving more effective protection to the health of 
schoolchildren (particularly the problem of their dietary) is a pressing 
problem all over Poland. 

Investigations made in schools have shown the necessity for feeding 
from 40% to 50% of the children. 

The feeding of children is organised by school boards, parents' 
committees, local authorities, special committees and social organisations. 

The distribution of additional food to schoolchildren is not organised 
on a uniform basis, as the extent of this form of assistance depends upon 
the funds appropriated and the initiative of school committees, parents 
and philanthropic societies. Feeding of schoolchildren is limited almost 
entirely to the towns and industrial centres, except in special cir- 
cumstances as on the occasion of floods and bad harvests in certain 
areas. An important contribution to this form of activity is made by 
the social assistance authorities. 

The necessary financial resources for this work are supplied by the 
Government authorities, more particularly by the district authorities, 
the Ministry of Social Welfare, the Labour Fund, local administrative 
grants, and by collections organised in secondary schools on behalf of 
elementary schools. 

The feeding of elementary school children is designed mainly for the 
poorest children who suffer from anaemia (numbering 25%) and for 
children with a predisposition to tuberculosis (7%). Foods, sweet 
drinks, and especially milk, are distributed. 

In urban schools, food is given systematically^ chiefly during the 
winter. In country schools, the children are given soup (equivalent 
to 130 calories) and bread before harvest-time. 



— 93 — 

The following are a few figures : 

(i) The Warsaw School Board spends 500,000 zloty in feeding 
from 25,000 to 30,000 children (25% of the total child population) 
annually. 

(2) The Lodz Citizens' Committee feeds 25% of all children. 

(3) The Crakow Voivodeship, 30,000 children. 

(4) In Upper Silesia, 300,000 zloty are spent on 25,000 elementary 
and 4,000 secondary school children. 

(5) In Poznan, 9,000 children are fed. 

(6) In Polesia, there are 528 centres, where 9,400 children are 
fed ; similar work is done in other districts. 

During the holiday months, the Summer Camp and Day Camp 
Organisations look after the feeding of poor children by supplying them 
with food daily, either free of charge or for a nominal payment. 

The average nutrition standards required by the Ministry of Social 
Welfare in educational establishments are as follows : 

Article of food 14-18 years 7-14 years 3-7 years 

(grammes) (grammes) (grammes) 

Bread 500 400 300 

Milk 200 400 400 

Sugar 50 40 30 

Meat 90 70 30 

Eggs ^number) i/, 1/, 1/, 

Bacon 25 20 15 

Fat 20 10 5 

Butter 15 4 4 

Peas 60 40 22.5 

Groats 150 125 80 

Flour 15 10 7 

Potatoes 500 400 200 

Vegetables, fruit 150 120 70 

Roumania. 

In nearly all towns there are school centres maintained by the State, 
the commune or the department where midday and morning meals are 
provided. Thus, in Bucharest, there are eighteen canteens and child 
centres where more than 2,000 children are fed. Similarly, the 
Department of Ilfov maintains seven canteens. Owing to want of 
resources, the work of the canteens is restricted. In the city schools, 
only 10% of the children receive a hot meal, and in the country hardly 
any, though the need is great. 

Periodical medical inspection of children is carried on by the district 
doctors. Investigations by Dr. Banu in 1930 on 2,149 children of school 



— 94 — 

age from both urban and rural districts showed that in 41% the state 
of nutrition was below the normal ; the urban children showed the effects 
of under-nutrition more than the rural children. 

Switzerland. 

In Switzerland, the distribution of milk in schools at 10 a.m. has been 
organised on a large scale, supported by extensive propaganda. 

In 156 places in Switzerland, schoolchildren receive pasteurised milk 
in bottles of 2 decilitres at 10 o'clock in the morning. The milk is sucked 
through a straw. The experiment, which is carried on under the auspices 
of the Swiss Milk Commission, is carefully followed by the doctors. 
It would seem to have given good results in practically every instance. 

The milk supplied to the schools by the local milk organisations is 
sold to the children at 10 centimes the bottle ; but many pay less, or 
are given the milk free. 

The difference is refunded to the milk organisations by the local 
authorities. In the city of Basle, for instance, in 1934, 7,232 
schoolchildren regularly received milk (representing 45% of all Basle 
schoolchildren). 

Of this number, 3,890 paid in full, 3,202 paid in part, and only 140 
received the milk free. 

In addition to the distribution at 10 o'clock, there is, in some towns at 
any rate, a free distribution of milk and bread at 4 p.m. to children who 
remain in the schools to prepare their lessons (day boarders) — that is 
to say, generally, children whose parents work at a distance from their 
homes. 

There are also school kitchens or school soupcanteens in the majority 
of urban areas of any size. These are generally organised by philanthropic 
groups in the refectories of the school buildings, which are handed over 
or fitted up for the purpose by the municipalities. The children receive 
a full midday meal free of charge or for a small payment (not exceeding 
50 centimes a day). 

Holiday settlements are organised on the same principle. They 
generally command the use of dwellings which are well fitted up in 
pleasant surroundings, mostly in the mountains. 

Further, orphans throughout Switzerland receive the necessary care 
and attention to enable them to complete their apprenticeship to trades 
under suitable moral and physical conditions. 

Turkey. 

There has been a comparatively large extension of the efforts to 
provide poor schoolchildren in cities and small towns with a midday 
meal. Midday meals were served regularly to 5,223 children in different 
urban centres in 1935. A great part of these meals were provided by the 
Red Crescent Society, and others by the Child Welfare Society. In the 



— 95 — 

dispensaries established by the State or by the Society for the Campaign 
against Tuberculosis, foodstuffs are distributed free of charge. In 1935, 
the Child Protection Society arranged for the distribution of 64,751 
litres of milk in different towns. 

In 1934, some investigations were made in the elementary schools 
into the nutrition of children from 7 to 12 years of age. The method 
consisted in weighing the children. According to the results obtained, 
the level of nutrition was found to be very satisfactory. In some villages, 
the index number sometimes exceeded 100. No other method has hitherto 
been applied. 

Rations in secondary boarding-schools and vocational schools are the 
following : 

Grammes 

Bread 600 

Meat 350 

Fish 200 

Rice 80 

Butter 70 

Sugar no 

Potatoes 225 

Dried vegetables ... 120 

Salt 20 

Cheese 45 

Milk 150 

Green vegetables . . . 250-300 

Fruit 200 

United States of America. 

In the United States, the improvement of the dietary of schoolchildren 
has been developed through the schools. As a part of the relief activity 
in the States, school lunches have been supplied to children from 
families on relief or to definitely under-nourished children who could be 
certified as in need of the extra food supplied (see also Chapter VII, 
pages 254-256). 

Uruguay. 

The Uruguayan Child Welfare Association runs at its own expense 
eleven refectories, where children of school and pre-school age are given 
a rational and properly balanced dietary. 

Yugoslavia. 

In Yugoslavia, the school authorities are responsible for the running 
of school kitchens organised in the primary schools. School kitchens in 
which indigent pupils can get breakfast and lunch are organised in the 
principal cities with the help of private enterprise. In the villages and 
smaller towns, they are less frequent owing to the absence of material 
resources or philanthropic institutions of any importance. 



— 96 — 

Nutrition of Elementary Schoolchildren. 

The Primary Schools Law of December 9th, 1929, makes the School 
Committees responsible for organising school kitchens and child welfare 
work, and the Law of September 12th, 1930, dealing with the health 
of schoolchildren, enacts that " in any school, whenever it is found that 
the children are badly fed, there shall ... be opened a school kitchen 
for feeding the pupils." Under the regulations, the policlinics supervise 
the school kitchens, while the school medical officers select the pupils 
who need to be fed in the school kitchens and also control the kitchens 
from the medical point of view. These efforts are supplemented, 
on an even wider scale, by private initiative. Thus, 532 school kitchens 
have been opened (year 1932-33), feeding 30,540 children daily. 

In addition to these school kitchens, Queen Marie has opened eleven 
canteens for feeding schoolchildren. These canteens have been set up 
in the biggest educational centres at Belgrade, Zagreb, Skoplje, Ljubljana 
Sarajevo, Split, Cetinje, Celje, Maribor, Plevlje, Krizevci; 2,000 children 
are fed daily in these canteens. In 1934, ^^^ instance, 477,852 meals 
were served. 

The Red Cross, with the Junior Red Cross, has also set up school 
kitchens for feeding schoolchildren. The data for 1934-35 show that 
the Red Cross possessed 637 kitchens, at which 34,615 schoolchildren 
were fed daily. 

In all, 67,155 children are supplied with meals through these agencies, 
the total number of elementary school pupils being 1,300,000. 

Children's Hostels. 

There are in Yugoslavia 102 children's hostels, 84 of which are 
maintained by private organisations and 18 by the State. These 
hostels together contain 4,800 children between the ages of 6 and 16. 
Of these hostels, 50 were founded by religious (mainly Catholic) bodies, 
which provide for their needs. 



Secondary Schools and Colleges. 

The Ministry of Public Instruction has opened a number of State 
hostels with the object of supplying food to indigent secondary-school 
pupils. Education and board are free in all these hostels. The banovines 
also organise hostels on lines similar to those of the State hostels. The 
budgets of the State and of the banovines further provide appropriations 
in each year for the maintenance and education of indigent secondary- 
school pupils. Private initiative is also active in this direction : and in 
this connection reference must be made in the first place to the support 
of the Royal House. The King Alexander Home for secondary-school 



— 97 — 

pupils, for example, educates and maintains a large number of indigent 
pupils free of charge. Hostels and school kitchens are also provided for 
indigent secondary-school pupils by parents' associations and school 
associations and a variety of cultural and humanitarian organisations 
such as the Red Cross, the " Education Society ", the women's leagues 
and religious associations. 

There are many needy students in the Yugoslav universities. Most 
of the students come from poor districts, and their impecunious families 
can give them very little help ; a large number of students are entirely 
dependent on outside aid. This aid mostly takes the form of meals in 
canteens, either free of charge or at a very low cost. The canteens are 
supported mainly by public donations. 

For indigent students' there is the King Alexander I Students' Home 
in Belgrade, which provides for the entire maintenance of some 500 
students on payment of a small fee. The buildings of the home were 
erected by King Alexander I. The Ministry of Public Instruction 
provides an annual grant of 800,000 dinars for the cost of maintenance 
of the home, and the home is also in receipt of a monthly grant of 50,000 
dinars for bursaries for poor students to pay for their maintenance. 

At Belgrade, there are four students' canteens, at which 600 students 
are fed daily. At Zagreb, there are two canteens, at which 430 students 
are fed. At Ljubljana, the Students' Aid Society pays, in various 
kitchens, for the feeding of thirty-six students, while the banovine 
provides for twenty-five more. At Skoplje, the Students' Mess Society, 
aided by the professors and the inhabitants of the town, provides meals 
for needy students. 



Protection and Nutrition of Apprentices 
AND Young Workers, 



Of the various private, official and semi-official associations concerned 
with the protection of young workers, the " Privrednik " societies of 
Belgrade and the " Hrvatski Radisa " society of Zagreb deal particularly 
with the improvement of nutrition. 

The " Hrvatski Radisa " society has existed since 1903 and 
the " Privrednik " society since 1897. The latter has a home which can 
accommodate ninety to ninety-six apprentices, for whom their employers 
pay 300 dinars a month. Up to the present, 29,300 apprentices have 
received the hospitality of the " Privrednik ". At the present time, 
4,000 apprentices are placed under the supervision of the society and have 
obtained work through its good offices. 

Various proposals are being studied in order to ensure effective 
protection for apprentices, especially in their relations with their 
employers as regard food and clothing. 



— 98 — 

CHAPTER III. 

MEASURES TAKEN ON BEHALF OF ADULTS, UNEMPLOYED, 

ETC. 

The State usuallj' recognises the obligation to provide for the physical 
subsistence for indigent persons and for sections of the population 
in temporar}' need of assistance. This work takes many forms, but the 
assistance given to necessitous families in the matter of food supply 
is of capital importance. 

The growth of unemployment has in many countries led to the 
organisation of elaborate and costly measures for the relief and main- 
tenance of families thus deprived of their normal means of livelihood. 
This relief often takes the form of distribution of food in addition to 
grants of money. 

Argentine Republic 

Canteens. 

Certain institutions under the Central Authority run cheap canteens 
for workers ; there are nine of these canteens, and they are able to serve 
approximately 2,000 meals per day. 

The canteens run by the Public Welfare Society are financed indirectly 
by the grants made by the Welfare Society to various institutions. 

The canteens run by private organisations are of two kinds : those 
which supply food free of charge to persons who apply for it and those 
which supply it at a low price. 

In Buenos Aires, there are twenty-six institutions which together 
distribute each day 1,736 free meals and 2,446 half-price meals, making 
a total of 4,182 meals per day. 

Many large industrial establishments supply lunches (and, in a few 
cases, dinners) at cost price in the canteens attached to the workshops. 
As a rule, the cost of running these canteens is borne by the works. 
There are two types of canteens : canteens with fixed bills of fare 
and automatic bars ; among the latter, special mention should be made 
of the bar attached to the Anglo Cold Storage Establishments. As a 
general rule, the meals supplied by these employers' organisations are 
of excellent quality and the price charged is much less than their real 
value. It usually represents the cost of the raw materials and part 
of the cost of preparing and serving the meals. 

There are, in the capital, sixteen organisations which together 
distribute each day 5,202 half-price meals and 395 meals which are 
fully paid for, making a total of 5,597 meals per day. 

Unemployed. 

There is a National Committee for Combating Unemployment (Law 
1 1 896) under the Ministry of the Interior; since 1930, this Committee has 
given board and lodging at Puerto Nuevo to the unemployed who come 
there. It is at present assisting 2,500 persons in winter and 1,500 in summer. 



— 99 — 

Australia. 
The State of New South Wales. 

The Living or Basic Wage. 

The essential pivot of the social machinery for ensuring satisfactory 
nutrition of the Australian population is the living or basic wage. The 
laws of the Commonwealth and of the separate States provide systems 
of industrial regulation of working-hours, conditions and wages, which 
cover employees working for daily and weekly wages, and also those 
employed at quite high rates of salary — for example, as high as £750 
per annum in the State of New South Wales. 

The wage rates of the industrial awards determined by the tribunals, 
and of the agreements made under their imprimatur, conform to the 
principle that the worker for wages shall not normally receive less than 
a living wage as calculated in terms of the Australian standard of living, 
account being taken of the sex and average family responsibilities of 
the worker. For example, wage rates in New South Wales for the building 
trades include an addition to, or a loading of, the living wage for 
unfavourable weather in the case of open-air workers, together with 
additions or " margins " for average skill according to the craft of the 
worker. 

The Level of Nutrition. 

The food or nutrition allowance is a primary element of the 
fundamental living or basic wage rates, below which no worker may 
be employed (except in rare cases under special permit issued on account 
of proved physical disability), the other primary elements of the living 
wage being shelter, clothing, fuel and light and miscellaneous 
requirements. 

Examination of the cost of adequate nutrition of wage-earners has 
been conducted at frequent intervals since 191 9 by the New South 
Wales industrial authority, which was the Board of Trade till 1926, 
and since that date the Industrial Commission. A parallel examination 
was made in 1920 by a Federal Commission of Enquiry, afterwards 
called the Basic Wage Commission. 

The composition and energy value of the weekly dietary scales used 
to exemplify adequate nutrition for a family consisting of man, wife 
and three average children by the New South Wales Board of Trade 
in 1 91 9 and by the Basic Wage Commission in 1920 are shown in Tables I 
and II. 

On the basis of very lean meat (giving one calorie per gramme), the 
Board of Trade scale provides 3,600 calories a day for the man, 2,900 
for the wife and 1,700 for the average child under 14 years of age, if 
the total consumption is shared according to Atwater's coefficients 
of the relative energy requirements of men, women and children ; 
or 3,100, 2,600 and 2,000 calories a day for the man, wife and average 
child respectively, if the shares be allotted according to Lusk's coefficients, 
which are more generous for the children. Consumption of the same 
allowance by weight of lean or medium fat meat, instead of very lean 



lOO 

meat, gives 6% to 12% more calories, while reducing the protein 
allowances by 3% to 5%. Even so, the lowest daily protein allowance 
(derived by consumption of medium fat meat) is 115 grammes for the 
man, and the table shows that 45% of this is first-class protein. 

The figures in Table I refer to foods as purchased by the consumer ; 
all refuse, such as bone, skin and parings, is allowed for in the 
computation of amounts of nutrients and energy value. 



Table I. — New South Wales Board of Trade, 1919. 

Composition and Energy Value of Weekly Dietary Scale for Man, Wife 

and Three Children. 

Amount of nutrients 

Quantity Protein Fat Cjirbohydrate Energy value 

lb. lb. lb. lb. Calories 

Bread 20 1.600 0.200 10.000 22,440 

Meat : 

(i) Very lean ^ . 16 2.720 0.432 — 6,880 

or (2) Lean 2 . . . 16 2.480 1.696 — 11,760 

or (3) Medium fat ^ 16 2.368 2.896 — 16,640 

Butter 1Y2 0015 1-275 — 5,405 

Oatmeal 3 0.483 0.216 2.025 5.580 

Milk 18 * 0.594 0.720 0.900 5,850 

Sugar 4 — — 4.000 7,440 

Jam I o.oio — 0.500 945 

Treacle 2 0.048 — 1.386 2,580 

Rice 2 0.160 0.006 1.580 3,260 

Peas 2 5 0.492 0.020 1.240 3,310 

Potatoes 14 ^ 0.252 0.014 2.058 4,340 

Raisins i 0.023 0.030 0.685 i,445 

Tea 1/2 — — — — 

Suet I 0.047 0.818 — 3,540 

Flour 4 0.532 0.060 2.908 6,660 

Condiments — ' — — — — 

Fruit and vegetables . 9^ 0.117 0.036 0.972 2,160 

Total in lb. (i) 1 . . . — 7.093 3.827 28.254 81,735 

(2) 2 . . . — 6.853 5.091 28.254 86,615 

(3)^ • . • — 6.741 6.291 28.234 91,495 

■ On the basis of Atwater's analysis for very lean beef. As i kilogramme = 2.205 'b., approximately, 
the energy value of such meat is less than i calorie jjer gramme. This does not refer to item a. 

• On the basis of Atwater's analysis for lean beef. Energy value, i.5 calories per gramme. 

' On the basis of Atwater's analysis for medium fat beef. Energy value, 2.8 calories per gramme. 

* Seven quarts is the quantity stated in the dietary scale. See Bulletin of Living Wage (Adult Males), 1918, 
page 31, and Board's Declaration of October 8tb, 1919. 

' Taken as dried peas. 

' 2o°o allowed for parings. If the potato is cooked in its skin, the energy value of 14 lb. is 5,600 calories. 

' Three pennyworth allowed in the dietary scale ; of little or no energy value. 

» Represents the simi of 2s. 6d., converted at about 3d. per lb. The analysis is for parsnips ; grapes, plums, 
beans, etc., have high energy values ; cabbage has a low energy ; the energy value of parsnips seems to be a 
rough mean for average fruit and vegetables. 



lOI 



Table II. — Federal Basic Wage Commission, 1920. 

Composition and Energy Value of Weekly Dietary Scale for Man, Wife 

and Three Children. 



Items 



Quantity 



Bread 20 lb. 



Flour 

Oatmeal 

Rice 

Sage and cornflour 

Eggs 

Milk 

Sugar 

Jam 

Treacle 

Butter 

Beef 1 

Mutton 

Fish 

Bacon 

Fruit (fresh) .... 

Raisins 

Currants 

Potatoes 

Onions 

Vegetables 

Tea 

Coffee 

Total per week . 
Per man per day 



3 ., 

1 1/2 lb. 

Vz ,. 

V2 .> 
I dozen 

7 quarts 
5 ^2 lb. 
2 



Vt 



2 

8 

4 
2 

8 

V4 

V4 
II 

8 



^2 



Protein 
Grammes 

726 

JIG 

18 

18 

81 

270 

5 
5 

9 

550 

236 

167 

22 

18 

3 
2 

90 

3 

33 



Fat Carbohydrates Calories 
Grammes Grammes 



108 

49 
I 
I 

65 
317 



769 

521 

434 

39 

136 

7 

3 

2 

5 
I 

8 



4,762 

1,020 

460 

179 

179 

397 

2.444 

452 

143 



435 
90 

71 
734 

37 
147 



2,523 
109 



2,481 
107 



11.550 
500 



23.520 

4.953 

2,787 

816 

826 

922 

5,688 

10,230 

1,890 

608 

7,208 

7,100 

5,000 

1,052 

1. 173 
1,928 

407 
320 

3.421 

174 
800 



80,823 
3.499 



The New South Wales Industrial authority found that, in practice, 
the costs of the foregoing two dietary scales, although of slightly different 
composition, are usually and in the long run about equal. Hence they 
have been used indifferently as the basis of the nutrition allowances 
in the living wages determined by the New South Wales tribunal for 
males and females, adaptation to families with less than three children 
being made by means of coefficients of relative energy requirements 
of men, women and childern. 

Employees and Workmen of Public Authorities. 

Public authorities, central and local, in employing labour, are subject 
to the same industrial laws as private employers. For example, in the 
Arbitration Act of New South Wales it is specifically provided that wage- 



1 Mean of lean and moderately fat beef. 



— 102 — 

rates, hours, conditions of employment by the Crown and by such 
authorities as the Commissioner for Railways, the Water, Sewerage 
and Drainage Boards, whose powers are derived from the Crown, must 
not be less favourable to the employee than under the awards and 
agreements operative in private employment. 

As these awards and agreements, being based on the living and basic 
wages, already secure adequate nutrition, it would be a work of 
supererogation for the public authorities, in their capacity of employers, 
to concern themselves directly with the nutrition of their employees. 

Unemployed Persons in receipt of Relief. 

The Emergency Relief Work Scheme at present in operation in New 
South Wales provides for a scale of relief work for the benefit of 
unemployed persons, payments varying according to the " permissible 
income " from all other sources. The rates of payment for relief work 
have been based throughout the period of its operation upon the living 
wage for the time being operating in New South Wales, the current rates 
being referable to the present State living wage of £^ 85. bd. The rates 
are as follows : 

Classification 

Adult male (without depen- 
dents) 

Man and wife 

Man, wife and i child . . . 
Man, wife and 2 children 
Man, wife and 3 children 

It is clear that the fortnightly scale of relief earnings provides full 
nutrition according to the Industrial Commission's standard. Those 
who are unable to get any employment otherwise than on the relief 
works will probably suffer shortage of such requirements as clothing 
and miscellaneous items of normal expenditure, though this is, to some 
small extent, mitigated by periodic distribution of clothing and footwear 
by the Department of Government Relief. 

Outdoor Relief (Food, Clothing, etc.). 

Persons in necessitous circumstances who are not provided for by 
any unemployment relief scheme above mentioned are granted food 
relief. The cost of this service to the New South Wales Government, 
at the present time, approximates ;^i, 000,000 per annum. Generally 
speaking, any unemployed person who is registered for employment 
at a Government Labour Exchange may make application for food 
relief. It is not essential for applicants or their families to be absolutely 



Fortnightly 
permissible 

income 
£ s. d. 


Fortnightly 

relief work 

earnings 

£ s. d. 


Total possible 
fortnightly 
earnings 
£ s. d. 


I 5 





I 


3 


II 


2 


8 II 


2 





2 


I 





4 


I 


2 10 





2 


11 


3 


5 


I 3 


3 





2 


14 


8 


5 


14 8 


3 5 





3 


I 


6 


6 


6 6 



— I03 — 

without income to become eligible for this form of assistance. Incomes 
varying with the family group are allowed, the present permissible 
amounts being as follows : 

Per fortnight 

£ s. 

Single person i 5 

Married couple 20 

Married couple with i child 2 10 

Married couple with 2 children 3 o 

Married couple with 3 children 3 5 

with an increase of 5s. per fortnight for each subsequent child. 

A scale of relief appropriate to his family group is allotted to the 
applicant, and he is then required to indicate the names and addresses 
of his tradesmen — grocer, butcher, baker and milkman — and the various 
amounts he wishes to spend with each. Orders on the tradesmen to 
the extent indicated by the recipient are then posted to the tradesmen 
concerned, who subsequently present the orders to the Government 
for payment. 

The value of the food relief provided varies with the size of the family. 
The appropriate scales and their values are as set out below : 

Per week 
s. d. 

Single person 6 6 

Married couple 10 9 

Married couple with i child 16 9 

Married couple with 2 children 19 9 

Married couple with 3 children 22 9 

plus 3s. for each additional child. 

In order that the unemployed may receive full value for their food 
orders, a Departmental Committee periodically fixes the maximum 
prices which may be charged by tradesmen for the various foodstuffs. 
The food orders, in numerous instances, form a major part of tradesmen's 
businesses. They are eagerly sought, as, with the Government backing, 
there is no prospect of bad debts arising, and the orders can be turned 
into cash without delay. The orders may also be assigned to wholesalers 
and others, and, in practice, are very extensively so assigned. 

Periodical distributions of boots and clothing are made to recipients 
of food relief and emergency relief workers. 



Relief Work of Private Organisations. 

In view of the centrally operated living and basic wage systems plus 
child endowment, there is normally little room left for private charitable 
activities. Co-operative societies in Australia have no special 
association with nutrition. The friendly societies disburse sick pay, 
funeral expenses, etc., and a few trade unions pay unemployment 



— I04 — 

allowances for a limited period. But the activities of the Central 
Governments, State and Federal, outlined above, retard and make 
almost unnecessary the development of provision of " benefits " by 
such private associations. Indeed, the searching investigations made 
when determining the degree of eligibility of an applicant for employment 
or assistance under the Government relief work scheme tends to 
discourage decentralised mutual-aid associations. 

Employers' associations, as such, are not concerned with the nutrition 
of employees. There is little room (certainly none in New South Wales) 
for family or child endowment schemes organised by employers such 
as are found in certain other countries. In New South Wales, the State 
system has covered this field since 1927. 

The State of Victoria. 

Industrial Workers and Agricultural Labourers. 

No provision is made for an improved dietary for these classes of 
workers. Industrial workers are protected against under-nutrition by 
the legal provision of a minimum wage, and this wage is calculated 
to provide a reasonable standard of living for a man, wife and three 
children. 

Agricultural labourers in the great majority of cases have their meals 
with their employer and his family and partake of the same food, so 
that the problem of under-nutrition scarcely arises. 

Unemployed Persons. 

Unemployed persons in Victoria are not issued food rations, but an 
allowance in money which enables them to purchase food according 
to their individual taste. The payments are on a definite scale — the 
minimum allowance is for single men, married men receiving an extra 
grant for their wife and each child. In cases of hardship through special 
family circumstances, sickness, etc., religious and philanthropic societies 
supplement the official grant with orders for milk, groceries, etc. 

The Federal Capital Territory. 

The population of the Federal Capital Territory in 1933 was 8,947. 
The administration of the territory is under the jurisdiction of the 
Minister of the Interior, assisted by a partly elected and partly nominated 
Advisory Council, the Department of the Interior employing most 
workers who are not permanent public servants. This department 
works in unison with the Canberra Relief Society, the expenditure of 
which is subsidised by the Government to the extent of two-thirds (over 
the past five years). 

Industrial Workers. 

Award rates are payable to industrial workers in the territory, these 
being more than sufficient for an adequate diet, when permanent work 
is available, except in certain instances. Where the employee has a 
very large family and is unable to provide sufficient food of the right 



— I05 — 

type, assistance is granted by the Canberra Relief Society. When 
permanent work is unavailable, these employees come under the heading 
of intermittent relief workers. 

Unemployed Persons in receipt of Relief. 

The Department of the Interior provides work for the unemployed 
to the extent of at least one week in three for married men, and one 
week in five for single men. At Christmas and midwinter, about a 
month's regular work is provided. For those unable to work, ration 
orders are given for an adequate, well-balanced diet for non-workers. 
Butter and, except in the case of single men, milk orders are given in 
all cases. Recipients may substitute certain foods at their discretion, 
and vegetable seeds may be purchased. 

If for any reason a person's income for the previous four weeks is 
below a certain fixed amount, which varies with the size of the family, 
then extra work is granted to the value of the appropriate ration scale, 
and payment is made in cash. These amounts are as follows : 

Married couples : £ s d 

With or without one child 400 

With 2 or 3 children 540 

With 4 children 660 

With 5 children 790 

With 6 children 8 10 10 

With 7 children 915 o 

The State of Western Australia. 

There is evidence that, in Western Australia, single men on sustenance 
show a fair proportion of individuals who have suffered and are suffering 
from malnutrition, probably because in many cases they have had to 
prepare their own meals and provide for themselves, with the result 
that meals have been prepared in a haphazard way without due regard 
to a proper choice of diet and with a view to the saving of trouble in 
preparation. This has resulted in an undue number of cases which 
have become more or less unemployable by reason of chronic gastric 
trouble, duodenal ulcer, and other evidences of malnutrition. 

Luncheon-rooms are provided for employees at a certain number of 
large emporiums and Commonwealth Departments, probably with 
distinct advantage. 

The State of South Australia. 

The Central Board of Health reports that it has no evidence to indicate 
that certain parts of the population are under-nourished. The scale 
of rations issued to unemployed and their families is regarded as a high 
one and under such conditions there should be no likelihood of under- 
nutrition occurring. Further, statistics do not indicate any mortality 
or morbidity arising as a definite result of under-nutrition. 



— io6 — 

The following is the scale of rations issued to unemployed : 

Relief for one week for an adult : 

Groceries 2/5. 

Bread 3 loaves. 

Meat 3 % lb. 

Vegetables 6d. 

Relief for one week for a married couple : 

Groceries 4/10. 

Bread 6 loaves. 

Meat 7 lb. 

Vegetables i/-. 

Relief for one week for children : 

All invididuals over their thirteenth birthday: Full adult ration. 

Children over 9 years and up to 13 yers of age : 

Meat 2 1/2 lb. 

Bread 3 loaves. 

Milk 3 14 pints. 

Vegetables 3d. 

Groceries 2/1. 

Children over 6 years and up to 9 years of age : 

Meat 2 lb. 

Bread 2 14 loaves. 

Milk sYz pints. 

Vegetables 3d. 

Groceries 1/9. 

Children over 3 years and up to 6 years of age : 

Meat I lb. 

Bread 2 loaves. 

Milk 7 pints. 

Vegetables 3d. 

Groceries 1/5. 

Children from first birthday up to three years to age : 

Meat 1/2 lb. 

Bread i loaf. 

Milk 7 pints. 

Vegetables 3c/. 

Groceries 1/3. 

Nursing mother to receive i ^ pints of milk per day in addition to 
her usual ration, until the baby is weaned. 

Babies artificially fed up to the age of 6 months to receive 25 ounces 
of milk per day, i 1/4 ounces of sugar, and orange juice to the value of 



— I07 — 

^/^rf. per day. From 6 months to 12 months, 1 14 pints of milk per day 
and id. per day for fruit and vegetables, Y^ lt>. sugar and 14 1^. some 
cereal per week. 

At the end of February 1936, there were 10,000 males, 5,000 females 
and 9,000 children being issued with rations. 

Austria. 

The " Winter Aid " Fund for the Relief of Necessitous Families. 

The large-scale campaign which the Federal Government has been 
conducting for several years with a view to assisting the needy sections 
of the population during the winter (" Winterhilfe der Bundesregierung ") 
is closely associated with the problem of nutrition. 

Thus, in the Federal capital, Vienna, needy persons whose hardships 
are accentuated by the winter are supplied by this means with food 
and means of protection against the cold. Distribution during the season 
1934-35 was as follows : 

Supply of Foodstuffs. — The expenditure was 2,067,244.20 schillings. 
The quantities of food supplied were : 

1,043.300 tons of flour ; 

521.650 tons of sugar ; 

260.825 tons of vegetable fat ; 

521.650 tons of beans. 

Orders for Meals. — 136,027 books of food coupons for 1,654,822 meals 
were issued. On an average, 14,800 persons were fed daily. 

Breakfasts. — Meals were supplied for children consisting of a quarter 
of a litre of cocoa and milk and 15 decagrammes of rye bread ; 200,104 
quarter-litres of cocoa and milk and 66,517 loaves of bread were issued. 
By this means, 13,400 children on an average were given a hot breakfast 
daily. In 1936, the number of schoolchildren rose to 22,000. 

Tinned Food. — In 1934-35, 127,400 tins of gulyds were issued under 
the auspices of the Vienna " Winter Aid " Fund. 

Free Milk Distribution. — Parents with one child, mothers who were 
the sole support of one or two children, aged persons, invalids, expectant 
mothers and convalescents, if suffering special hardship, receive from 
the Welfare Of&ce milk coupons (half a litre per head). Altogether, 
50,000 coupons are issued monthly. 

Among the large-scale activities carried on in Vienna by private 
organisations all the year round may be mentioned : 

The foodstuffs, midday meals, and " convent soup " distributed by 
the " Caritas " Institute of the Archbishopric of Vienna and its affiliated 
convents, associations and organisations. 



— io8 — 

The " Josefstische ", which supply needy adults with hot meals to 
be taken home and which are shared by the children also. About 24,000 
persons are served daily by this agency. 

The " Elisabethtische ". This organisation supplies hot meals, 
particularly to the destitute middle-class. According to the 1934-35 
report, the beneficiaries number 5,960. 

In addition, some 700 organisations, societies and authorities make 
large-scale distributions at Christmas. 

Similar practical efforts are made in Upper Austria, partly through 
the " Winter Aid " Fund in the case of persons receiving relief, and 
parth' through school milk schemes in the case of schoolchildren. 
Most of the school centres in the province have soup-kitchens, which 
furnish a nourishing hot meal to schoolchildren having a long journey 
to school and therefore being unable to return homeat midday for a meal. 

The " Winter Aid " Fund in Upper Austria supplied large quantities 
of foodstuffs free of charge or at reduced prices to persons in receipt 
of relief, while the value of the foodstuffs distributed by various agencies 
in the province amounted to 140,000 schillings. In principle, relief 
was given in the form of local produce bought out of the money received. 
First place was taken by periodical issues of food parcels or daily supplies 
of food. 

The City of Linz Welfare Ofifice distributes additional food weekly 
in the city itself to persons in receipt of relief, and during the winter 
months about 1,200 children are fed four times a week at ten municipal 
soup-kitchens. They receive cocoa, vegetables or thick soup. There is, 
in addition, a scheme for the suppl}' of free milk to various schools 
which distributes daily, free of charge, a quarter of a litre of hot milk 
as a morning meal to 2,000 schoolchildren. 

In the Province of Salzburg, arrangements exist for supplying infants 
and schoolchildren with pure milk. For the mothers themselves, however, 
only limited provision is made to the extent of the help afforded by 
maternal welfare centres. The working population is, by means of the 
" Winter Aid " schemes, given fairly generous help, particularly in 
Salzburg ; unmarried and childless couples receive a copious midday 
and evening meal, while married persons with children are issued food 
parcels. 

In Styria, the Maternal Welfare Department of the Fatherland 
Front now arranges for better food for mothers by the issue of food 
allowances to needy women one month before and one month after 
childbirth. The allowances consist of parcels of flour, fat, rice, groats 
and sugar, and also of tinned foods and free milk cards. 

In general, efforts have for years past been made to improve the food 
of infants and children by supplying helpful advice through the Public 
Health Centres. In Styria, this action is conducted on uniform lines 
and at the present time embraces about 80% of the total population. 
Parallel action is taken in the provinces of Tyrol and Vorarlberg. 



— I09 — 

United Kingdom. 

The allowances made by the Unemployment Assistance Board to 
unemployed persons within the scope of the Unemployment Assistance 
Act are normally made in the form of cash, and recipients are generally 
free to spend their allowances as they think fit. Allowances may be 
increased where the need for extra nutrition is proved. In cases of 
difficulty where the allowances granted are being misapplied, the Board 
exercises its powers to pay the allowance partly in kind, so as to ensure 
that a due proportion is devoted to food. 

The Board is represented on the Advisory Committee for Nutrition 
and is also in touch with other departments on matters which arise 
from time to time — e.g., in connection with the disposal of surplus 
foodstuffs to the lower-paid and unemployed industrial classes. 

In England and Wales, outdoor relief is afforded by local authorities 
in accordance with the provisions of the Poor Law Act, 1930, and the 
Relief Regulation Order, 1930. This relief is given either in the form 
of cash payments, enabling the persons applying to provide a sufficient 
amount of suitable food for themselves and their dependents or in the 
form of orders on tradespeople. 

It may be said generally that, in dealing with applications for outdoor 
relief, the authorities pay particular regard to the need for extra 
nourishment in special cases. 

In Scotland, with regard to persons, including able-bodied unemployed 
persons, who apply for poor relief, the statutory duty of the local 
authority is to provide needful sustentation. Needful sustentation is 
not defined by statute and, in practice, the interpretation of these words 
has varied from time to time in the past with changing standards of 
living among the population as a whole. Local authorities, in affording 
needful sustentation by way of outdoor relief {i.e., relief in cash or, 
rarely, in kind), aim at giving sufficient to enable the applicant and his 
dependants to maintain health and enjoy reasonable comfort. In granting 
outdoor relief, however, no conditions are laid down as to the methods 
of its disbursement. The local authorities have special regard to cases 
where there is exceptional need, and allowance would always be made 
in respect of extra or special nourishment certified by the authority's 
medical officer to be necessary. 

Czechoslovakia. 

Relief of Unemployment. 

Unemployment in Czechoslovakia is still at the same level as in 
1933. At the end of 1935, there were 700,000 unemployed, but any 
tendency to increase has been checked by capital expenditure and 
productive relief measures for the benefit of the unemployed. These 
measures can be divided into three main groups : 



— no — 

(i) General productive measures for the benefit of the unemployed, 
consisting of State subsidies to public building contractors ; 

(2) " Territorial " action, consisting of loans or subsidies for large- 
scale works which are already being subsidised out of other public 
funds ; 

(3) Subsidies granted to public utility institutions for works 
involving capital expenditure. 

The total amount granted for productive relief work for the benefit 
of the unemployed is 126 million crowns. This has enabled autonomous 
administrations, public utility institutions and State undertakings to 
carry out work costing over i milliard crowns, and to give employment 
to nearlv 200,000 persons. 

The execution of public works has an indirect influence on the nutrition 
of the unemployed, who once again become producers and consequently 
consumers, since they are in receipt of a regular income. A similar result 
is obtained by subsidies for housing. To enable the largest possible 
number of unemployed workmen to be engaged, fiscal facilities are 
granted for the repair or rebuilding of old houses and State subsidies 
for the construction of new ones. 

Direct measures to improve the nutrition of the unemployed may be 
divided into nine groups : 

1. State measures for feeding the unemployed come first. 
Unemployed persons not entitled to unemployment benefits under 
the Ghent system, towards which the State grants a subsidy, receive 
a weekly allowance of 20 crowns if they are fathers of a family and 
10 crowns if they are unmarried. Although this allowance is not 
large, it has placed an enormous burden on the State. In 1933, 
237,905,300 crowns were expended ; in 1934, 212,587,150 ; and, in 
1935, 284,431,420. 

2. The distribution of milk to children of the unemployed and 
fathers of families in part-time employment ; in so far as funds permit, 
every child receives half a litre of milk per day. This quantity is 
distributed to all children whose fathers are unemployed, even if the 
latter are in receipt of some other unemployment benefit. The milk is 
bought in various districts at different prices. For the last three 
years, 1933-1935, the average purchase price was 1.40 crown. In 
1933, the expenditure involved was 22,200,000 crowns, and 15,860,000 
litres of milk were purchased. In 1934, the outlay was 27,500,000 
crowns, and approximately 19,643,000 litres of milk were purchased. 
In 1935, the expenditure was 29,622,000 crowns, and approximately 
21,158,700 litres of milk were purchased. 

3. These State measures for feeding the unemployed are 
supplemented by the distribution of bread, which is made in the 
districts where there is most unemployment. Unemployed persons 



— Ill — 

in these districts who are entitled to State relief obtain — if they have 
a family — two loaves a week, each weighing 1.5 kg. Unmarried 
persons obtain one loaf a week. In 1935, this distribution involved 
an expenditure of 6,512,465.05 crowns ; in 1934, 34,280,619.45 crowns ; 
and, in 1933, 58,725,896 crowns. 

These three relief measures have been applied continuously since 
193 1. The beneficiaries obtained their rations in bulk at intervals 
of five weeks. 

4. Each winter the unemployed receive a supply of coal which 
is either bought by the State or given to them by the colliery owners. 
During the winter 1935-36, 1,900 truck-loads of coal were distributed 
free of charge to the unemployed. 

5. Funds are granted each year by the Government for " Christmas 
relief ", to which unemployed persons and part-time workers who 
are fathers of families are entitled. Before Christmas, these persons 
receive warrants for foodstuffs, which are distributed by the 
Unemployed Food Relief Service. Persons with one or two children 
receive warrants representing a value of 20 crowns ; persons with 
three children, 30 crowns ; and persons with four or more children, 
40 crowns. In 1935, 6 million crowns were expended for this purpose. 

6. Clothing is distributed in winter to the children of the 
unemployed and to partly employed persons who are fathers of a 
family. The expenditure amounts to 3 million crowns per year. 

7. A sum of 2 million crowns, which was later increased to 3 
millions, has been provided for feeding the children of the unemployed 
in winter. This service is run by the State and was inaugurated in 
1935- 

8. Since 1933, a sum of 5 million crowns a year has been allocated 
for the purpose of supplementing communal relief to the unemployed. 

g. Winter relief for the unemployed was introduced during 
the winter 1935-36. A sum of 54 million crowns has been appropriated 
for this purpose. This exceptional relief takes the form of the 
distribution of foodstuffs in kind to the unemployed living in districts 
where there is most unemployment and who are entitled to relief 
out of the State Fund for Feeding the Unemployed. These include 
young persons over 16 if the breadwinner of the family is not in 
regular employment ; persons in receipt of unemployment benefit 
under the Ghent system, when the State allowance does not exceed 
the value of the foodstuffs granted by the State Fund for Feeding 
the Unemployed ; seasonal workers who were unemployed for half 
the season during the previous year or who have been out of work for 
three consecutive months. The foodstuffs distributed were : 16,518 



112 

quintals of fat, 41,409 quintals of flour, 13,586 quintals of sugar, 
21,865 quintals of hulled barley and 8,236 quintals of barley coffee ; 
lastly, 3,175 truck-loads of potatoes were distributed to unemployed 
persons. 

In the case of benefits granted to the unemployed under the Ghent 
system, the State subsidy amounts to nearly twice as much as the 
subsidy paid by the trade union. The following sums were paid to the 
unemployed under this system : 

Year Crowns 

I931 201,850,912.75 

1932 365,724,694.45 

1933 535,098,746.00 

1934 309,887,628.45 

1935 300,557,170.00 

Denmark. 

Danish social legislation provides for financial assistance to all sections 
of the population that are in want on account of unemployment, illness, 
etc., and thus ensures that the population as a whole is at all times able 
to obtain the foodstuffs necessary for the maintenance of life. 

Estonia. 

In Estonia, assistance, in the form of food, for minors, unemployed 
persons incapable of heavy manual labour and indigent unemployed 
persons capable of work was carried out by nutrition centres serving 
one hot meal a day, or distributing foods in the dry state weekly. In 
1931-32, relief in this form was given to 6,837 minors and unemployed 
persons incapable of heavy work, and to 9,747 unemployed persons 
capable of work. The corresponding figures for 1932-33 were 7,670 and 
15.327 respectively. 

As unemployment declined, the feeding of the indigent unemployed 
was suspended. Persons who had fallen into indigence as the result 
of unemployment were assisted through the sale of rye from the State 
granaries to the communal administrations at 50% below market prices. 
The communes were free to distribute this rye in the form of relief to 
assisted persons, or to sell it at low prices to the unemployed and to 
indigent persons unable to buy rye at market prices ; 3,257 tons of rye 
from the State granaries were sold in this way. 

Finland. 

In Finland, all the big employers now see to it that food is obtainable 
at reasonable prices, even in the remotest spots by men engaged in 
timber felling and floating. The law on the housing of lumbermen 
requires the employer to provide a cooking-stove in the huts. Two of 



— 113 — 

the largest companies in the timber industry have decided to help their 
employees by establishing eating-houses and providing a cook and the 
necessary equipment. 

In recent years, the special inspector of the Ministry of Social Affairs 
has devoted great attention to the question of the provision of food for 
men working in the forests, and has compiled statistics of the prices of 
the foodstuffs most commonly used by timber-workers in different parts 
of the country. 

The rules of the public assistance institutions, which have to be 
sanctioned by the prefects, prescribe that every institution must have 
a diet-sheet framed jointly by the management of the institution and 
the visiting doctor. The district public assistance inspectors, who are 
appointed by the Government, see that the institutions adhere to their 
diet-sheets and exercise general supervision over the dietary. 

The out-relief provided by communal Public Assistance Boards is 
often given in kind, in the form of food ; otherwise in cash. 

In all these activities, the communal Public Assistance Boards are 
required to observe the general rule laid down in Section i of the existing 
Public Assistance Act — namely, that the applicant must be given 
whatever maintenance and care he needs. 

France. 

The public authorities are fully empowered not merely to supervise, 
but to guide dietary practice in connection with certain very diverse 
and large categories of the population — soldiers and sailors, school- 
children and persons in receipt of relief in public institutions. 

In these circumstances, the authorities concerned should not encounter 
any great difficulty in applying to these various categories of the 
population any more rational dietetic methods. 

On the other hand, there are certain equally numerous categories 
whose diet is not yet governed by any special rules, in particular, 
persons benefiting under social insurance schemes and the unemployed. 

It is proposed to consider what steps may be taken to improve the 
diet of these persons both in quantity and quality. 

The Nutrition of Persons benefiting under Social Insurance 

Schemes. 

The number of assured persons in France is at present 8,800,000. 
In view of its magnitude, the question has been raised whether it is 
possible under existing regulations to exercise a guiding influence on 
the diet of these persons. 

Neither the Organic Law of April 5th, 1928, on Social Insurance nor 
the texts for the application of that law make any specific reference to 
the nutrition of insured persons. The fund has, however, very wide 



— 114 — 

powers of guardianship, in that insurance covers the risks of illness, 
invalidity, old age and death and takes into account family charges and 
maternity. 

Very important benefits are accorded to mothers. One of these is 
in connection with the feeding of the child. Under Article 9, § 5, of 
the Decree-Law of October 30th, 1935 : 

" An insured woman who is duly certified by the medical officer 
to be incapable through physical incapacity or disease of feeding 
her child at the breast may, if the child is brought up by her in her 
own home, be granted, for the period and to the extent indicated 
by the doctor, coupons for milk the value of which shall not in any 
circumstances exceed 60% of the bonus for breast-feeding. " 

These provisions show that the social insurance funds can take certain 
action in connection with the nutrition of their insured persons. Could 
not the following paragraph be interpreted in the same way ? 

" An insured person or person entitled to benefit whose state of 
health necessitates preventive care or who is suffering from a disease 
that does not incapacitate him for work shall be granted, if necessary, 
for a period not exceeding two years, special benefits, the maximum 
amount of these and the conditions under which they may be granted 
being defined by the internal regulations of the fund." 

In whatever way these texts are interpreted, it is a recognised 
fact that the various funds must endeavour to prevent sickness amongst 
their insured persons. Should not an adequate and rational diet be 
regarded as one of the essential factors of such protection .-' 

The regional unions of the distributing funds are responsible for the 
organisation and prevention of sickness among their insured persons. 

These unions are in process of formation (their creation was prescribed 
by Decree-Law of October 30th, 1935). 

The Directorate-General of Social Insurance will draw the attention 
of these unions, as soon as they have been established, to the part 
played by nutrition in the prevention of disease. 

Thus, methods by which the diet of persons benefiting under social 
insurance schemes may be improved both in quantity and quality 
will be carefully studied. These studies will probably lead to practical 
conclusions of the highest interest. 

Nutrition of the Unemployed. 

It is a known fact that unemployment has not been so serious in 
France as in certain other important countries. The number of 
unemployed is about 300,000. This figure is, however, high enough to 
have warranted the adoption of special measures to assist this part of 
the population. 

In this connection, the State has only intervened indirectly. 
Unemployment funds have been established in the various departments 



— 115 — 

and communes, the State merely contributing, under conditions laid 
down in a Decree of December 28th, 1926, to the expenditure contracted 
by these communities. At law, the unemployed are entitled only to a 
relief grant. In principle, these grants are not necessarily made in the 
form of money ; they may be in kind — in the form of meals, for instance. 
But, in point of fact, the unemployment funds rarely avail themselves 
of this option. 

Several funds adopted the system of distributing the total amount 
of the grant in the form of food coupons ; but this gave rise to various 
malpractices, such as the sale of the coupons by the unemployed, so 
that the Ministry of Labour does not encourage this form of relief. 

The Central Administration does not advise the distribution of 
foodstuffs, on account of the difficulty of supervision and the possibility 
of fraud. Moreover, it is feared that such distribution might place 
unemployed persons in an excessively favourable position as compared 
with employed persons. 

These few details show that the official unemployed relief 
organisations do not give thought to the nutrition of the unemployed. 
Certain communities, however, such as the city of Paris, in addition 
to numerous supplementary optional benefits, grant to their unemployed 
certain benefits in the matter of foodstuffs. 

For instance, a decision of the municipal council of March 30th, 1931, 
lays down that the children of unemployed persons shall be admitted 
free of charge to elementary-school canteens. The city of Paris also 
allows unemployed persons to take their meals in the " people's soup- 
kitchens ". 

On the other hand, most of the numerous private organisations 
engaged in assisting the unemployed distribute foodstuffs, raw or 
prepared food (meals or soup, to be eaten on the spot or taken away). 

It would seem, therefore, that, as matters stand, action with a view 
to improving the nutrition of the unemployed in France must be taken 
through the intermediary of the private organisations, unless a more 
detailed study of the question reveals the necessity of inviting the public 
authorities to reconsider the desirability of distributing relief in kind 
to the unemployed. 

Hungary. 

In Hungary, in recent years, many factories have set up kitchens 
and canteens in order to improve the nutrition of the workers. At 
midday and in the evening, these canteens provide meals at cost, the 
price being roughly equivalent to an hour's wages. 

Mine-workers are still more fortunate in that these enterprises have 
shops in which the workers can buy foodstuffs and clothing at reduced 
prices by means of vouchers. Further, the miners live for the most 
part in workers' colonies where they can raise cows, pigs and poultry. 

Bo t the mines and the factories organise courses in domestic economy 
for the women workers. 



— ii6 — 

Italy. 

Assistance to the Unemployed and to Poor Families. 

In Italy, apart from certain special institutions for the relief 
of particular classes of individuals (the aged, the sick, orphans, etc.)^ 
the public authorities have for some years now given assistance to certain 
classes of the unemployed or indigent families, inter alia, in the form of 
food. 

The " Ente Opere Assistenziali " (Institution for Relief Organisations) 
of the Fascist Party, or, as the case may be, the insurance institutions,. 
look after unemployed persons and all persons who for any reason find 
themselves in a situation which justifies the granting of relief. In winter- 
time, soup kitchens are set up in several towns, which give one meal a 
day to persons whose circumstances entitle them to receive it. The 
composition of these meals was investigated by the Committee for the 
Study of Problems of Nutrition of the National Research Council. 
They were found to be equivalent generally to about 1,300 calories. 
The Party thus supplied each unemployed person and each member of 
his family with about one-half of the amount of energy needed by them 
per day. 

Assistance is given on the strength of the relief vouchers issued by 
the F.P.R.O.A. to the heads of indigent families, and is based on tested 
rules of hygiene and physiology, without at the same time overlooking 
the equally important factors of local custom and the most suitable 
dietary. 

Statistics of Relief Work. 

In 1933, the Relief Organisation, which co-ordinates the work of alt 
the previous existing organisations by increasing their resources and 
developing their action, assisted on an average 2,328,924 persons daily. 
In the same year, it distributed 46,333,335 meals through soup kitchens 
and, in other forms, supplied 72,218,536 food rations in kind and 
4,813,981 litres of milk. For 1934, when 2,884,000 persons on an average 
were assisted daily, the statistics are more complete : 

Soup kitchens : 

Bread and soup (rations distributed) 33,286,148 

Meat and vegetables (rations distributed) . . . 1,322,122 

Milk (cups) 1,790,417 

Food distributed in kind : 

Rations distributed 

Wheaten flour 12,556,674 

Maize flour 10,564,213 

Bread 29,204,425 

Alimentary pastes 13,701,912 

Vegetables 17,128,811 

Rice 13,883,420 



— 117 — 

Rations distributed 

Bacon 7,781,171 

Tomato sauce . 2,950,452 

Meat 890,186 

Potatoes 4,087,610 

Oil 4,168,696 

Milk 5,263.598 

Sugar 757,866 

Eggs 217,508 

Coffee 186,662 

5cAoo/ mea/s (rations distributed) 9,347,473 



Assistance given by Insurance Institutions. 

The Social Welfare Institute, which administers all social insurance 
except accident insurance, has drawn up for the various classes of 
assisted persons charts laying down the food ration. Special charts 
have, similarly, been drawn up for the sanatoria managed by the 

Institute. 

Workers' Canteens. 

Another innovation is the workers' canteen, which enables workers 
to obtain an ample and well-prepared hot meal at a very low cost 
served during the midday interval in appropriate and comfortable 
premises. Workers are thus enabled to recover the calories necessary 
for further productive work. 

These canteens are to be found in almost all large and medium- 
sized undertakings, some of which themselves issue hot soup at their 
own cost. Other canteens, on the other hand, are almost entirely 
managed by the local workers' union. Such, for example, is the case of 
the canteens of the General Electricity Company at Milan or the harbour 
workers at Genoa. 

Hostels. 

Other industrial undertakings — particularly textile firms — have 
introduced hostels for young workers of both sexes whose families have 
no relatives in the place where they work. At these hostels, they 
receive three meals a day, prepared in accordance with an appropriate 
dietary, the cost of board and lodging being very low. 

On the advice of the factory doctor or social assistant, the 
managements of certain firms have rations of milk, eggs and chocolate 
distributed each day to working-girls and young women in delicate 
health and to mothers nursing their infants in the factory nursery. 



Ii8 



Latvia. 

Influence of Government Measures against Unemployment 
ON THE Consumption of Foodstuffs. 

The decline in the prices of agricultural products, both on the world 
market and within the country, resulted in a material reduction in the 
income and purchasing power of the Latvian farmer in 1931 and 1932. 
As farmers and their familier form half the total population of Latvia, 
the decline in their purchasing power has had a considerable influence 
on industry, trade and the other branches of the economic life of the 
country. Hence, industrial, commercial and transport undertakings 
have been obliged to curtail their activities and to dismiss part of their 
employees. For this reason, the number of workers insured with the 
sickness insurance funds ^ declined from 180,000 in 1930 to 141,000 in 

1932. 

In order to relieve unemployment, the Government organised public 
work (preparation of timber in the State forests, levelling of the ground 
for road construction, work on the railways, etc.). The organisation 
of these public works entailed the following expenditure on the part 
of the State and municipalities : 9.8 million lats during the financial 
year 1932-33, 8.9 million lats in 1933-34, ^.nd 7.3 million lats in 1934-35. 
Grants were also made to unemployed women having small children 
and to other categories of unemployed. 

Among the Government's various activities in the campaign against 
unemployment, special mention should be made of its efforts to employ 
the workers in industry and in certain other branches. It is thanks to 
Government intervention that industry was able to extend its activities 
and thus to increase the number of employed workers. This was achieved 
by the Government's agrarian policy, which guaranteed farmers fixed 
prices for their products and gave them a stable and a wider market. 
In this way, the income and purchasing power of the farmers increased, 
which had a favourable effect on industry, commerce and other branches 
of economic life. The Government's industrial policy also contributed 
to the development of industry. By the limitation of imports of industrial 
products (the quota system), local industry was enabled to produce 
a whole series of articles which before were wholly or for the most part 
imported from abroad. 

The steps taken by the Government in the agricultural and industrial 
fields have led to the complete disappearance of unemployment in 
Latvia. Towards the end of 1935, the sickness insurance funds included 
181,000 insured workers, or about the same number as before the 
economic depression, as compared with 145,000 at about the end 
of 1932 — i.e., three years ago. Hence, during this period, the number 
of wage-earners increased by 36,000. The income of these 36,000 newly 



All wage-earners are insured with these funds, with the exception of farmers and public officials. 



— 119 — 

employed persons may be estimated at 35,000,000 lats (the average 
wage of industrial workers of either sex is approximately 1,000 lats 
per annum). With the members of their families, the newly employed 
persons total about 60,000, whose consuming power has considerably 
increased. This accounts for the increase in consumption of foodstuffs 
in the towns of Latvia. 

Improvement in the Living Conditions of Agricultural Workers. 

Thanks to Government action to increase agricultural production 
and protect agriculture, the situation of Latvian farmers has considerably 
improved in the last few years. The cultivation of cereals and of sugar- 
beet and flax having greatly increased, new opportunities of 
employment are being provided, leading to a rise in the wages of 
agricultural workers. At the same time, the farmers, whose income has 
increased thanks to the stabilisation of prices and the extension of 
marketing facilities, are well able to pay higher wages. Thus, the 
situation of the agricultural workers has greatly improved, and the same 
applies to their nutrition. 



Improvement of Nutrition in Latgale. 

The region of Latgale, which has about 500,000 inhabitants, possesses 
certain special economic features, since its historical past has not been 
the same as that of the other districts of Latvia. At the time of the 
formation of the Latvian State, the land was divided into numerous 
scattered lots, which enormously complicated its cultivation. Until 
recently, the number of illiterate persons was considerable (a large 
percentage of the population is of Russian and Polish nationality). 

The rural population of Latgale is approximately twice as dense and 
the birth rate there is much greater than in the other regions of Latvia. 
Agricultural technique is much less developed there than elsewhere. 
Accordingly, agricultural production in Latgale was at a very low level, 
and the consumption of foodstuffs per head was materially less than in 
the other districts. This applies particularly to meat and dairy products. 
Nevertheless, the last five or six years have brought improvements to 
this part of Latvian territory also. The agrarian reform divided the vil- 
lage lands into individual holdings and established numerous new farms 
on ground previously belonging to large estates. In this way, the agrarian 
structure has become much more rational and the Latgalian farmer has 
had full scope to develop production and thus increase his income. 
The State has spent large sums on raising the level of education, and 
already the number of illiterate persons has materially decreased. 
Large sums have also been spent in the form of loans to farmers. 

Thanks to all these measures, agricultural production has materially 
increased in Latgale. The total rye crop, as compared with that of the 



I20 

pre-depression years, has increased by about 50%, while the percentage 
increase in the wheat crop has been still greater. The output of animal 
products — meat and milk — also shows a considerable increase. The 
consumption of foodstufifs in Latgale has accordingly improved 
considerably. 

Poland. 

In Poland, the fundamental law on public assistance of September 
1923 makes the communes responsible for maintaining all necessitous 
persons unable to provide for their own needs. This obligation extends 
to all persons having resided not less than one year in the commune 
concerned. It is this fundamental law which is the basis of all measures 
of assistance adopted by the Ministry of Social Assistance and executed 
by the communes and local authorities subordinate to it. 

Persons receiving assistance under this law are examined by the 
authorities from the social, economic and frequently medical points 
of view. Assisted persons are everywhere found to be in a state of 
under-nutrition. Their numbers are considerable. At Warsaw, in 1933, 
they numbered approximately 80,000 (20,000 families), or 7% of the 
population. The state of under-nutrition is detected either by the medical 
services (doctor, visiting nurse) or by the assistance service (social 
workers) . 

The nutrition measures which form part of social assistance are in 
the hands of the autonomous authorities, which keep in touch with the 
social organisations. 

As an example may be mentioned the work of the autonomous 
administration of the city of Warsaw. 

The centres issue cards entitling the holder to various benefits. The 
principal forms of assistance in the matter of nutrition are : (a) meals, 
(fe) distribution of bread, {c) distribution of milk and cod-liver oil for 
children. 

Apart from direct nutrition, families to be assisted receive money 
grants, the greater part of which is obviously spent on improving the 
dietary. 

Meals consist of meat soup, with vegetables and bread. The price 
per meal is about 52 grosz for intellectual workers and about 23.5 grosz 
for physical workers. During the budgetary year 1934-35, 966,800 
meals were provided for 21,522 persons. The bread is baked by the 
mechanical bakery of the town and is distributed to the persons 
indicated by the centres. There is no distribution of flour. 

The Labour Fund Law of March 19th, 1933, enacts that " the purpose 
of the Labour Fund is to supply work or the means of livelihood to the 
unemployed who have no other way of earning a living, chiefly by the 
organisation of public works or works of public importance ". 

The Labour Fund, which has a much larger budget than the 
institutions above mentioned, and at the same time has such permanent 
sources of income as the special taxes on salaries and wages, consumption. 



— 121 

etc., can conduct a much more methodical campaign against 
unemployment taken as a whole and for a protracted period. 

Primarily in accordance with the stipulations of the law, the Labour 
Fund, in principle, regards it as necessary to provide for the unemployed 
by means of public works. But it could not disregard immediate 
assistance in the shape of food and fuel, as (i) such relief was less 
expensive ; (2) public works could only be conducted on a very limited 
scale in winter, owing to weather conditions, and winter is precisely 
the hardest time for the unemployed. 

The Labour Fund spent the following amounts from 1933-34 ^^ 
1935-36 on organising work and relief : 

1933-34 193+-35 1935-36 

(estimates) 
(In thousands of zioty) 

Public works 49,891 81,638 88,400 

Immediate relief. . . . 32,088 19,664 17,500 

The credits used by the Labour Fund were supplied to it either in 
cash or in the form of certain articles of food sold in bulk, for which 
central purchasing had to be resorted to. In this way, big reductions 
were obtained on the purchase prices. Coal and sugar were the chief 
of these articles. 

The Labour Fund issued only general organising instructions ; the 
actual relief was given by the Labour Fund's local committees. Close 
collaboration with the local population enabled the voivodeship 
committees to secure, in addition to the budget appropriations, large 
sums by organising street collections and other public demonstrations. 
The actual funds thus collected by committees amounted, in 1934-35, 
to 11,720,000 zloty, which brought the cost of immediate relief in that 
year to the aggregate amount of 31,366,000 zloty. Collections made from 
the local, and particularly the agricultural, population brought in 
numerous gifts of food, such as potatoes, cereals, etc. 

The immediate relief organised by voivodeship committees in 1934-35 
was extended to a number of persons (unemployed and members of their 
families) varying between 445,000 in August 1934 and 828,000 in March 

1935- 

In addition to articles of food, the unemployed received, particularly 
in winter-time, certain amounts of coal and wood, and, in some isolated 
cases, clothing, underclothes, soap, medicine, etc. The relief given in the 
form of food, however, was more than 90% of the total immediate relief 
given. 

The average expenditure monthly on immediate relief was 20 zloty 
per family. This is, of course, a small figure ; but, as large savings were 
made in purchasing the products and relief was limited almost entirely 
to the distribution of food, it was possible with this amount to give 
the unemployed sufficient supplies to tide over the most critical period 
of unemployment. 



122 



Sweden. 



In Sweden, the ofificial activity for rendering aid has mainly been so 
organised as to secure, by the organisation of public works, an income 
for the unemployed person large enough to procure for him a barely 
adequate living. In cases where aid cannot be arranged in this way, 
assistance is given in cash or in kind, or in both. Assistance in kind is 
sometimes given in the form of one or more meals per day. Nutritional 
control of these meals hardly ever takes place. In certain particularly 
stricken areas, the Government has also resorted to the distribution of 
food rations direct to necessitous persons. Unemployment having been 
considerably reduced during the last years, unemployment assistance 
is seldom now given in kind. 

Meals to persons under the care of the public assistance authorities 
are supplied by the municipal authorities, which exercise such control 
as they deem necessary. 

Extensive aid to necessitous persons is rendered, in the form of free 
meals, by private or semi-private institutions, such as the Salvation 
Army and other welfare institutions. 

Switzerland. 

In Switzerland, certain municipalities have set up kitchens for 
unemployed and indigent persons, in which necessitous families and 
individuals are given three free meals a day. The equipment and the 
food are supplied by the municipalities, which appoint the responsible 
staff. The kitchens of the city of Lausanne, for example, distributed 
196,926 meals in November 1935. 

In many Swiss towns, there is a private organisation, approved by the 
authorities, for temporary relief, which is known as the " Kilo Week " 
or " Le Kilo du Chomeur ". At certain times, groups of philanthropic 
workers make a general round of the population, collecting any gifts 
in cash or in kind which they can get. The gifts are sifted and inspected 
by the Public Health Service before being distributed, as and when required. 
This organisation has made it possible to make very considerable 
distributions of food, groceries, vegetables, potatoes, etc. 

A whole group of philanthropic organisations is concerned with the 
distribution of food. The work varies in importance and character from 
one place to another. Frequently, it is not confined to the distribution 
of food ; but, under different forms and different names, the objects 
are the same. 

In Switzerland, in the absence of any Federal system of old-age 
insurance (the principle of which has been accepted, though no steps 
have yet been taken to put it into force), there is an organisation for the 
relief of the aged which collects donations and gives assistance to old 
people. The city of Zurich has introduced a system of relief for the aged 
in the form of an annuity payable to all persons who have been resident 



— 123 — 

in the city for a certain number of years and, at the age of 65, are without 
means of subsistence. 

The unemployed benefit by the particularly effective relief measures 
adopted by the authorities. As in other countries, the continuance of 
the economic depression has meant the exhaustion of unemployment 
insurance benefits in the case of a large number of workers who have been 
unemployed for too long a time. To prevent these workers and their 
families gradually becoming destitute, the authorities grant daily cash 
allowances adapted to local circumstances. 

In several branches of national activity which are especially hard hit 
by the economic depression, such as the embroidery industry, the clock- 
making industry, the hotel industry and certain branches of agricultural 
production, the authorities have also given temporary financial relief 
to employers and entrepreneurs. 

Turkey. 

In Turkey, since the foundation of the Republic, the extensive public 
works, the varied building programmes and the policy of developing 
and expanding industrial enterprise have given rise to a labour shortage. 
At the sowing and harvesting seasons, when the majority of the 
population is working for its own account, public works and industrial 
enterprises sometimes suffer from a shortage of hands. On the other 
hand, the food problem, which is a result of the special climatic conditions 
in certain parts of Turkey, at times assumes such proportions that 
the authorities are compelled to take vigorous action to contend with 
it. Amongst the measures adopted and at present in operation may 
be mentioned the modernisation of agricultural methods, the extension 
of irrigation in districts affected by drought, the establishment of 
agricultural institutions, farm-schools and establishments for the 
improvement of seeds, the encouragement of new crops with due regard 
to conditions of soil and climate, the encouragement of stock-raising 
and the improvement of stock, and the reduction of taxation on live- 
stock. 

The Government has also taken steps to facilitate the marketing of 
surplus production and in this connection particular interest attaches 
to the situation created by the operation of the Grain Protection Law, 
which makes provision for the purchase of grain by the State (at a 
reasonable price determined in advance) out of the proceeds of a tax 
on flour not required by the peasant for his own consumption, the 
object being to enable him to market his produce and to protect him 
from speculators. Thanks to the action taken by the Government in 
this direction, large stocks of grain have been accumulated in up-to-date 
grain elevators erected out of the proceeds of the flour tax. 

Similarly, the Government programme of developing industry, and, in 
particular, the importance assigned to agriculture, has enabled the 
peasant to market his produce, and has led to a remarkable increase in 



— 124 — 

the output of a number of agricultural products — e.g., sugar and textiles. 
The recently opened sugar and textile factories have revived beet- 
growing in the country and have greatly increased the cultivation 
of cotton. The results in the shape of improved nutrition of the 
population are obvious. 

Among the efforts being made by the Government and by societies 
and committees under Government supervision with a view to improving 
the food conditions should be mentioned the large quantities of grain 
which have been distributed by the Government and the Agricultural 
Bank to necessitous cultivators, partly as a loan and partly as a free 
gift. In the year 1935, 31,070 tons of grain were distributed in different 
districts out of the stocks purchased at a fair price from peasants unable 
to sell their produce in the open market. The Red Crescent Society 
has further distributed 107 tons of foodstuffs. 

The attempts made to provide the workers of the great industrial 
establishments with rational and healthy food have given substantial 
results. The draft Labour Law, which is at present being considered, 
contains special provisions for improving the canteens of factories in 
which healthy food will be supplied to the workmen. 

Many of the factories working under State control supply food to the 
workmen and apprentices free of charge. 

In the State educational establishments which receive boarders, 
the food satisfies all requirements. 

Co-operative societies are being actively organised in order to improve 
food conditions for officials and workers in general. 

United States of America. 

The practical measures towards ensuring improved dietaries for various 
population groups in the United States have, in general, taken the form 
of education, supplemented in some cases by direct distribution of 
food either to the family or to individuals through school lunch or other 
feeding programmes. The largest direct distribution of food has been 
undertaken through the Federal Surplus Relief Corporation. 

Relief clients have for the last several years received in many cases, 
in addition to cash stipends, surplus foods made available to State 
relief agencies by the Federal Surplus Relief Corporation, established 
by Federal law to take off the market certain foods declared to be surplus, 
and make them available for distribution in non-competitive channels. 

The Federal Surplus Relief Corporation was created to help solve the 
paradox of hunger and destitution existing in a country with huge 
agricultural surpluses. Several years of agricultural surpluses in terms 
of effective demand had depressed prices to unprofitable levels and 
created a serious problem of agricultural destitution. At the same time, 
millions of people on relief stood in need of these products. Accordingly, 
the Federal Surplus Relief Corporation was created to serve as the 
instrument through which price-depressing surplus commodities might 



— 125 — 

be removed from the open market, processed and distributed to relief 
clients in such forms as foodstuffs and clothing. 

Because the Federal Surplus Relief Corporation was set up to 
accomplish the dual purpose of agricultural and unemployment relief, 
it operated in close alliance with the Agricultural Adjustment 
Administration and the Federal Emergency Relief Administration. 

The commodities which the Corporation distributes to State relief 
administrations are received from a number of separate sources. 

1. The Agricultural Adjustment Administration has given to the 
Corporation large quantities of commodities purchased under its crop 
and price adjustment programme. The Agricultural Adjustment 
Administration has also donated to the Corporation large numbers 
of cattle, sheep and goats which it purchased as a part of the drought 
relief programme. 

2. The Corporation, acting as agent for the States, has purchased 
surplus commodities for relief distribution. While these purchases are 
made by the Corporation through its division of procurement, they are 
paid for by funds granted to the States by the Federal Emergency 
Relief Administration, but transferred to the Corporation. 

3. Local crop purchases constitute a third source of commodities 
distributed by the Corporation. These purchases are made directly 
by the State relief administrations situated in the crop-surplus areas. 
The purchases are closely supervised by the Corporation, however, and 
paid for by funds specifically granted to the States by the Federal 
Emergency Relief Administration for that purpose. 

4. In addition to the commodities purchased, some surplus foodstuffs 
have been given to the Corporation by individual growers or groups of 
growers. This action was taken by the growers in preference to allowing 
the products to spoil. In these instances, the gathering of the surpluses 
is usually undertaken as a work-relief project. 

In short, the Federal Surplus Relief Corporation itself purchases only 
a part of the goods which it distributes, the function of purchasing 
surpluses being divided among the Agricultural Adjustment 
Administration, the Federal Surplus Relief Corporation, and the local 
relief administrations. 

The transportation and storage of all these commodities is primarily 
a problem of the Federal Surplus Relief Corporation alone. The 
processing of the commodities is sometimes done for the Corporation 
under contract and sometimes by the work divisions of the State 
Emergency Relief Administrations in collaboration with the Corporation. 
Distribution to State commodity distribution centres is a Federal 
Surplus Relief Corporation duty ; but, while the Corporation generally 
supervises and advises on the actual distribution to relief clients, the 
responsibility for successful distribution rests with State relief officials 
after the commodities have been delivered to them by the Corporation. 
Because no funds are appropriated directly to the Federal Surplus 



126 



Relief Corporation, all costs incurred by it for purchasing, processing or 
transporting commodities are paid by Federal Emergency Relief 
Administration allotments to the Corporation out of the funds granted 
to the States. 

The following statement shows the quantities and costs of certain 
foodstuffs distributed by the Corporation. The table is in no sense a 
statement of all surplus-commodity expenditure to date, but it does 
include the full cost of certain surplus commodities turned over to the 
States by the Corporation for distribution. 



Quantities and Estimated Value of Certain Commodities 
the States and Territories by the Federal Surplus Relief 

(October 1933 to July 31st, I935-) 

Commodity Quantity 



Apples (dried). . . 
Apples (fresh) , , . 

Beans 

Butter 

Beef (boned) , . . 
Beef (canned) . . 
Beef (fresh) . . . . 
Beef (tongues). . . 

Cabbage 

Cereal foods . . . 

Cheese 

Cocoa 2 

Flour 

Fruit (citrous). . . 
Goat-meat (canned) 

Lard 

Meal (corn) ^ . . . 
Milk (condensed) ^ 
Milk (evaporated) . 
Milk (dry skim) . . 
Mutton (canned) 
Pork products. , . 
Potatoes (white). . 
Potatoes (sweet). . 

Rice 

Salmon (canned) ^ . 
Sausage ^ 



lb. 



bags 
lb. 



bushels 
lb. 



885,350 

9,497,664 

6,871,380 

69,128,380 

19,889,824 

221,353.418 

35,106,167 

2,798,104 

36,476,639 

20,296,440 

17,998,827 

128,000 

147.095.357 
194.935 
777,600 

23.874.398 

790,000 

790,000 

37.595.200 

8,688,100 

20,741,770 

297,610,059 

239,427,800 

111,871 

50,372,880 

768,000 

384,000 



distributed to 
Corporation. 1 

Total 
expenditure 
Dollars 

121, 000 

106,755 

265.975 

16,681,504 

177,767 

9,287,282 

150,170 

23,616 

91.476 
1,179,227 
3,090,247 

10,829 
3,360,866 

59.301 

1,161,848 
20,140 

58,712 
1,961,632 

525.275 

2,438,316 

23,000,147 

1,504,761 

69,418 

2,147.396 
66,612 
46,946 



' Includes commodities purchased by the Federal Surplus Relief Corporation and the Agricultural 
Adjustment Administration, local surpluses purchased by State Relief Administration under Federal Surplus 
Relief Corporation purchase authority and reshipments of commodities turned over to the Federal Surplus 
ReUef Corporation by the State Emergency Relief Administration. 

- Shipments to Porto Rico. 



127 



Commodity Quantity Total 

■""■ expenditure 

Dollars 

Sugar lb. 9,000,000 372,180 

Syrup gallons 1,143,295 570.853 

Veal (boned) lb. 113,587 5,418 

Veal (canned) ,, 20,804,247 2,024,476 

Veal (fresh) ,, 85,761,375 160,929 

Veal (tongues) ,, 521, 573 947 

Out of 5,200,000 households (cases) receiving emergency relief under 
the general relief programme in February 1935, it is estimated that there 
were about 1,900,000, or 36%, located in rural areas and 188,000, or 
4%, in small towns of 2,500 to 5,000 population. The ratio of rural 
relief cases to all relief cases appears to have changed very little since 
October 1933. 

The relief situation as shown by a sample study of nine major 
agricultural areas in February 1935 presents striking differences among 
the areas and reflects clearly the severity of conditions existing either 
temporarily or permanently in these areas. Effects of the drought are 
particularly noticeable in certain sections, and a permanent condition 
such as exists in the Lake States cut-over areas has forced on the relief 
rolls almost 40% of the rural families in that area. This study also 
■ brings out the unfavourable position of non-farm families as compared 
with farm families. The unfavourable status of the tenant and share 
cropper groups as compared to the owner-operator group is also disclosed. 

Agricultural labourers and farm families have been reached through 
the Agricultural Extension Service. In many States, special educational 
programmes have been prepared to reach the agricultural labourers and 
tenant farmers, both directly and indirectly. Home production 
programmes suited to the different areas have been worked out and an 
effort made to help the agricultural worker directly through education 
in wise food choice. In some areas, the landlords have made land 
available for the production of food. The extension programme has 
done much in the way of improving the diet of independent farm 
families with the same type of education and the stimulation of home 
production of food for family use. The decrease in the incidence of 
pellagra in the South is in large part attributable to the educational 
programmes undertaken by the State extension service. 

The unemployed and persons in receipt of relief have been reached, as 
indicated above, by distribution of cash and relief in kind, and by 
educational programmes. In every State, there have been educational 
programmes in nutrition set up under the Emergency Relief 
Administration, advising the clients in food selection as well as educating 
them in the use of the commodities distributed. 

There has been little work done with the industrial workers as such, 
except as they have been reached by welfare agencies, private industries 
or educational groups of their labour organisations. In general, there 
has been less direct work with them than with other groups. 



128 



Uruguay. 

For unemployed persons and persons in receipt of relief, the 
Government of Uruguay has instituted public kitchens in various parts 
of the capital, where food can be obtained very cheaply by indigent 
persons. 

In certain industrial establishments, the employers have arranged 
for the staff to receive economical and rational meals, and the National 
Commission for Rational Nutrition, in the course of its visits, appreciated 
the sound composition of those meals from the standpoint of the quantity 
and quality of the various foodstuffs. 

In the private field should be mentioned the efforts of social assistance 
and welfare institutions, which maintain cheap canteens. 



Venezuela. 

In the child welfare centres in Venezuela, established under the 
Ministry of Health, Agriculture and Education, sterilised milk is given 
to children. This milk is the subject of a daily bacteriological test. 

The special centres of the Red Cross organisation distribute meals to 
poor mothers. 

Yugoslavia. 

Inthe year 1931-32, when the poorerregionsof Yugoslavia suffered from 
drought, the State sent to them, through the Privileged Exportation 
Company, 2,076 wagons, each of 10 tons, of wheat and 1,138 wagons of 
maize. 

At the end of October 1935, further action was taken to assist the 
" passive " areas. The Government voted a credit of 20 million dinars, 
and, in January 1936, a further sum of 8 million dinars, to provide 
food for the impoverished inhabitants of those areas. With the help of 
these funds, the Privileged Export Company has so far despatched 
1,156 trucks of maize to the areas in question. 

This assistance is given free of charge — as in the year 1931-32— only 
to persons disabled for work. All other persons are required to pay for 
the assistance by taking part in public works arranged by the banovine 
concerned. 

In addition to supplying direct aid in the form of food, the Government 
indirectly helps to supply the " passive " areas by lowering transport 
rates. On October ist, 1935, for instance, the railway rate for the carriage 
of maize over distances exceeding 500 km. — which chiefly affected the 
areas in question — was reduced by from 15% to 31%. In addition to 



129 — 

these privileges, the Ministry of Social Welfare issues permits for the 
free carriage of wheat and fodder. 



Feeding the Unemployed. 

There are 120,000 unemployed in Yugoslavia. Legislation makes it 
incumbent on the labour exchanges to assist the unemployed. For this 
purpose, the departmental offices of social insurance levy a subscription 
of 6 per mille on employed workmen's wages, half of which is paid by 
the workmen and the other half by the employers. These subscriptions 
produce about 22 million dinars per annum. The labour exchanges have 
had to make certain restrictions in the matter of granting relief, so 
that only a given number of workmen can obtain benefit, and that 
for a limited time. The feeding of the unemployed therefore falls mainly 
on municipal and banovine authorities and on private organisations. 
The task of feeding Belgrade unemployed falls on the Central Committee 
for Unemployed Relief, consisting of representatives of the central and 
regional authorities, workmen's associations and private societies. 

From January 7th to April loth, 1934, this committee issued to the 
unemployed 206,831 hot meals. This food was supplied to 5,582 persons. 
In addition, the " Daily Bread " Society issued, on presentation of the 
committee's identity card, bread to 3,304 unemployed workmen and 
office employees. Between December i6th, 1934, and April 14th, 1935, 
the committee distributed 284,187 hot meals. The food was supplied 
to 10,489 persons. 



CHAPTER IV. 



ARMY AND NAVY DIETARIES. 

Apart from the case of unemployed and indigent persons and persons 
in receipt of relief, the feeding of adults is not normally regarded as a 
matter for direct Government action as regards quantity or quality. 
There are, however, notable exceptions to this rule, inasmuch as there 
are collective bodies in all countries, such as armies, which the State 
has to feed, as well as public institutions with boarders. 

Such special cases as the dietary of prisons, hospitals and the like do 
not fall within the scope of this study. 

The question of the feeding of the armed forces has always, by reason 
of its importance and of the technical difficulties involved, been the 
object of careful supervision and of special action. 



— 13° 



Union of South Africa. 



The scale of rations in the Union Defence Forces for all ranks 
(European members), excluding Union cadets, is as follows (full ration 
for soldier, one-half ration for wife and one-quarter ration for each male 
child under i6 and each female child under i8 years of age, with a 
maximum of six children) : 



Ration (daily scale) 

Bread i lb. 

Mealie meal 2 oz. 

Fresh meat i lb. 



Vzoz 

V2 . 

5 , 

Salt Vs . 

Pepper 764 . 

Potatoes 12 , 



Tea. 

Coffee 
Sugar 



Vegetables. 



10 



Dried fruit 2 ,, 

Butter 2 ,, 

Cheese i ,, 

Jam 2 ,, 

Milk, fresh % pint 

Flour V2 ^^^ 

Bacon 2 ,, 



Boer beskuit or rusk 

(weekly) i/^ lb. 



Equivalent 



2 OZ. 



Wamo meal 

or Oatmeal .... 

Sausage or liver at equi- 
valent money value. 

Cocoa 2/4 oz. 

Cocoa '/« ,. 



Sweet-potatoes . . . 12 oz 
or Rice in lieu of 6 oz. 1^4 
or Samp in lieu of 
6 oz 4 , 

Dry beans in lieu of 

5 oz 2 , 

or Lentils in lieu of 
50Z. I , 

Fresh fruit twice 
weekly 4 , 



1/4 lb. packet jelly 
powder once weekly. 

Milk, condensed (nomi- 
nal lb.) 1/4 lb. 

Pearl barley ^4 ^^^ 

Fish fresh once weekly 4 ,, 
or 

Eggs, excepting days 
on which fish is 
issued 1 14 eggs. 



— 131 — 



Anstria. 



In Austria, the daily rations prescribed for soldiers in permanent 
garrison quarters have, on an average, a nutritive value of 3, 300 calories, 
made up as follows : 



Foodstuffs 



Quantity in 

grammes, 

except liqtiids 



Average nutritive value 



Meal 



Coffee, roasted . . . 
Barley or malt coffee 

Fig coffee 

Sugar 



4 
6 

5 
20 



Milk (centilitres) 20 

Bread 

Beef 



Vegetables 



Fat. . 
Cheese 
Jam , 
Sugar 



Legumes . . . 
Potatoes. . . . 
Kitchen flour. . 

Rice 

Pickled or fresh. 



Cooking 
requisites 



Salt 

Vinegar (centilit.) 
Condiments . . . 
Soup greens, pow- 
dered 

Onions, fresh . . . 



600 
160 

40 
250 

70 
60 
40 
50 
50 
10 

15 
20 

o. 

o. 

I 
15 



Breakfast 



Per day 



Midday 

meal and 

evening 

meal 



Calories 

Rubner's 

system 



221 



2 
5 



Nem 
Pirquet's 
system 



331 



1.340 


2,010 


287 


431 


107 


161 


208 


312 


234 


351 


198 


297 


8 


12 


442 


663 


166 


249 


22 


53 


60 


go 



3 

7 



Total 3,300 4.950 



The daily rations of soldiers engaged on field exercises and assistance 
work away from their garrison quarters are increased by 582 calories 
in the form of a snack which the soldiers take with them in the field. 

During manoeuvres and strenuous exercises in high mountain districts, 
the daily rations are further increased by 100 grammes of beef (nutritive 
value, 180 calories), to allow of a more copious evening meal. 

The cookhouses are not strictly tied to the " standard rations " 
as given above. The bill of fare, which is drawn up in consultation with 
a cookhouse committee on which the men are represented, should, on 
the contrary, and as far as the available funds allow, be varied, 
wholesome, palatable and in accordance with the men's wishes, provided 
always that the food served has the same nutritive value as the standard 
rations. Only the prescribed rations of meat, milk and cheese may not 
be replaced by other foods, in the interests of the marketing of home 



— 132 — 

agricultural produce. Soldiers who for service reasons are unable to 
take their meals in the ordinary mess receive a cash allowance 
representing i 14 times the estimated cost of the rations, since individual 
meals (in inns, etc.) prove more expensive. 

Apart from the above-mentioned standard rations, the following 
may also be issued to troops for various special reasons : 

{a) An additional bread ration of 200 grammes daily (nutritive 
value, 447 calories), which is served out to the members of the military 
assistance corps (young men), as new recruits are frequently under- 
nourished and the early stages of training involve great physical 
strain . 

(6) An additional food allowance equivalent to the value, as fixed 
from time to time, of 300 calories issued to those engaged in field 
work in the pioneer service, the support companies, etc. 

(c) An additional health allowance representing the actual cost 
of I gramme of ordinary household tea, 30 grammes of sugar and 2 
centilitres of rum per day when the Army Medical Corps officially 
recognises the outbreak of an epidemic. 

At the Theresa Military Academy, the rations are governed by the 
same rules as in the case of the ordinary troops. As during the academic 
year, however, the cadets are constantly under a special physical 
and mental strain, they are allowed an extra food grant equal to twice 
the above additional food allowance (cost of 600 calories). 



Belgium. 

In Belgium, the following are the food rations of the private soldier 

(a) Ordinary ration : 

Fresh or frozen meat 300 grammes 

Bread 600 grammes 

Coffee 10 grammes 

Chicory 5 grammes 

Milk 2 centilitres 

Margarine 25 grammes 

Rice or peas or beans or alimentary pastes . 25 grammes 

Salt 20 grammes 

Pepper 1/4 gramme 

Potatoes 1,200 grammes 

Fresh vegetables, a varying quantity. 

approximate cost 20 centimes per day. 
Fats and condiments used in the preparation 

of the above, approximate cost 20 

centimes per day. 



(b) 



— 133 — 

Field ration^ 

Fresh or frozen meat 450 grammes 

Bread 750 grammes 

Coffee 25 grammes 

Lard or magarine 40 grammes 

Sugar 30 grammes 

Chicory 

Rice or peas or beans or alimentary pastes . , 

o ,, f Same as ordinary 

Pepper! \ \\ '.'.'.'. \\ '.'.'.. W ' ^ ""^^^^^ 

Potatoes 



United Kingdona. 

The Navy's Food. 

The naval standard ration, and certain extra issues allowable in 
special circumstances, are as follows : 

(i) Standard ration : 

Oz. daily 

Bread 10 

Fresh meat 8 

Vegetables 16 

Sugar 2 

Tea % 

or Coffee 2 

Chocolate 14 

Condensed milk ^j^ 

or Fresh Milk 5 (i.e. 1/4 pint). 

Jam, pickles or marmalade i 

Preserved meat or salmon 4 (On one day in 

harbour or two 
days at sea, 
weekly.) 
Condiments as required. 

In addition : 

Spirit ration : Rum, one-eighth pint daily, or " grog money " in 
lieu. 

Plus messing allowance. This allowance stands at present at j.jd. 
a day on the home station. 



— 134 — 

(ii) Extra Issues : 

(i) On duty in engine-room : 

Oz. daily 

(a) Oatmeal 2 

Sugar 14 

or 

(b) Lime Juice i 

Sugar I 

(2) Employment of exceptional character involving heavy extra 
work such as coaling, etc., or men exposed by their duties to unusually 
severe weather : 

Oz. daily 

Bread or biscuit 8 

Preserved meat 6 

(rt) Soluble chococolate i/^ \ Plus ^4 ^^• 

or / sugar and 14 

[b) Tea '^U i ^^- conden- 

or I sed milk 

(c) Coffee 1/2 / 

or 
{d) One of the issues in paragraph {i) 
above. 

The ration is supplemented by a money allowance for the purchase 
of additional foodstuffs according to the requirements of individual 
messes. In ships where messing is conducted on the general messing 
system, a full dietary is provided by the Accountant Ofi&cer. Four meals 
are provided — viz., breakfast, dinner, tea and supper — and the quantities 
in the standard ration may be varied as considered desirable, expenditure 
being regulated by an appropriate daily money allowance per man 
victualled. 

Regular reports from the Fleet on the messing of the personnel 
ensure that a standard is maintained that is fully adequate in all respects. 
The approximate total calorie value of the sailor's dietary is 4,000 
calories. 

Dietary of the Army. 

The dietary standard of the soldier is based on a ration of 3,800 calories 
gross, provided by approximately 130 grammes each of proteins and 
fat and 500 grammes of carbohydrates ; about 60% of the proteins is 
derived from animal sources. Certain articles of the diet are issued in 
kind and the balance is purchased out of a cash allowance to provide 
variety and a suflBiciency of accessory food factors. 

To assist units in obtaining full value from the rations, a specimen 
diet-sheet is prepared and issued quarterly by an expert catering officer, 
who works in close liaison with the Hygiene Branch at the War Office. 



— 135 — 

With the same object, messing officers and cooks of units are trained 
in the subject at the Army School of Cookery. 

For troops serving at overseas stations (except India, where they are 
not administered by the War Office), a standard of feeding equal to 
that obtaining in this country is aimed at. 



Czechosloyakia. 

The experience of the Czechoslovak Military Administration has been 
as follows : 

The administration fixed dietary standards on the basis of practical 
requirements and scientific research. Apart from meat, the soldier's 
ration consists entirely of agricultural products, so that the army 
consumption of such commodities is a large one. The Czechoslovak 
soldier's ration is sufficient for any man engaged in hard work. 

The military units fix their bill of fare, as prescribed in the regulations, 
according to the customs of the district and the habits of the men, and 
also the local possibilities of purchase, but always with strict regard to 
the above-mentioned regulations. The diet must not be monotonous 
and must in any case be of the prescribed caloric value. 

The Army Administration sees that the dietary contains a sufficient 
quantity of vitamins, including, therefore, foodstuffs in which they are 
present (milk, fresh vegetables, fat, etc.). 

The energy-forming nutritive value of an army ration is quite 
adequate, as is proved by the sound health of the army. 



Estonia. 

In fixing the dietary, the authorities in Estonia have borne in mind the 
need for variety. The composition of the daily ration must be such as 
to compensate physically for the loss of energy in the organism, and at 
the same time to build up that organism and promote its development. 
In the preparation of food, the guiding principle has been to safeguard 
the nutritional value as far as possible, particularly in the matter of 
vitamins. The dietary of each army unit is composed weekly, with the 
assistance of an army doctor. 

There are two forms of army dietary : the ordinary and the increased 
standard. The ordinary standard applies in the various units and 
military institutions and the increased standard in military schools and 
in the Air Force. The standard in hospitals is 40% and in sanatoria 50% 
higher than the ordinary standard. The daily dietary, according to the 
ordinary standard, contains 91 to 108 grammes of albumins, 61 to 80 
grammes of fat, and 550 to 600 grammes of carbohydrates — i.e., 3,300 
to 3,500 calories net. 



— 136 - 

Finland. 

In Finland, the ordinary ration which forms the basis of the army's 
diet comprises the following quantities of various foodstuffs : 

Grammes 

Rye bread, dry 450 

Beef , fresh (dead weight) 120 

Pork, fresh (dead weight) 50 

Baltic herring, pickled 50 

Butter 40 

Peas 50 

Oatmeal 100 

Potatoes 800 

Lump sugar 40 

Full-cream milk 0.5 litre 

Calculating the value of those foodstuffs at current market prices, 
and adding a certain sum in cash for groceries and other necessaries 
(at present 7% of the total cost price of the standard ration), we arrive 
at the amount of the daily subsistence allowance within the limits of 
which each unit can arrange its dietary as it thinks fit. This system has 
the advantage of making it possible to keep very close to the fluctuations 
in local prices, and also leaves each unit full latitude to provide the 
precise kinds of food customary in the area from which the men are 
recruited. 

Although units have considerable latitude in framing their dietary, 
it has been thought well to lay down certain general practical rules 
dealing with dietary physiology : 

(i) The diet must be based on a fortnightly diet-sheet drawn up 
in advance, showing the bill of fare for each day ; 

(2) The nutritive value of the daily ration must average 3,800 
calories net, and must in no case be less than 3,500 ; 

(3) In its chemical composition, the dailj^ ration must observe 
the proper physiological proportions ; 

(4) The dietary must conform to seasonal changes, so that more 
foodstuffs containing calcium hydrates are eaten in summer, and in 
winter more fats, full-cream milk, raw foods and foodstuffs rich in 
vitamins ; 

(5) The diet must be so arranged that the men receive adequate, 
well-prepared, palatable and sufficiently varied meals. 

The amount of the daily subsistence allowance may be influenced 
by special conditions in certain units and establishinents. For example, 
the allowance is increased by 10% in warships at sea, and by 15% in 
military hospitals. 



— 137 



France. 



In France, the various regimental authorities have a considerable 
latitude in their purchases and commonly select " protective " foodstuffs. 
Bills of fare of the meals are submitted for approval to army doctors 
(see Chapter VII, below, pages 231 et seq.). 



Iraq. 

The standard diet for the Iraq army, both for officers and for men, is 
as follows : 



Bread (wheat) 

Rice 

Meat (generally mutton) 

Milk 

Butter fat (Ghee) . . . 
Fresh vegetables . . . 
Dry vegetables .... 

Lentils 

Fruits 

Sugar 

Jams 

Salt 

Tea 

Tomato juice 

Lemon juice 

Pepper and curry . . . 



Italy. 

AIrmy. 



Soldiers 
Grammes 


Officers' school 

{18-25 years) 

Grammes 


600 


600 


200 


300 


150 


300 




50 


40 


105 


330 


500 


150 




80 






150 to 500 




60 




40 


23 


28 




3 


15 


15 


I 


2 




I 



Various improvements have been made during the past few years. 
The soldier's ration no longer presents the terrible monotony of former 
years, and the food has also gained in nutritive value. 

The improvements made consist in : (i) the replacement twice 
a week, at the first meal, of meat by farinaceous dishes or rice with 
vegetables plus a ration of table cheese, thus utilising a product with 
which the country is well provided ; (2) the consumption once a week, 
during certain periods of the year, of a ration of " dentale " (fish 



- 138 - 

preserved in oil) ; (3) the supply of milk with the morning coffee ; (4) the 
introduction of a " free day " — i.e., once a week the various corps and 
sections, instead of receiving the normal meat ration for their men from 
the stores, are given a sum with which they may purchase foodstuffs 
on the local market (poultr}-, fish, beef, pork, etc.), endeavouring as 
far as possible to suit the tastes of the men ; (5) increase in the quantity 
of green vegetables in the composition of the military ration, and hence 
increase in the vitamin content. 

The innovations introduced have raised the total protein content, 
more particularly of proteins possessing the greatest value (cheese, 
milk), which is very important when it is considered that the army 
consists largely of young men who are still growing. The same applies 
as regards the proportion of fats, which has almost reached the quantity 
of 75 grammes fixed during the war by the Inter-Allied Scientific 
Commission. 

Thus, the present ration for garrison troops supplies the soldier with 
about 3,200 calories per day. When the troops have harder work to 
perform (camps, manoeuvres, etc.), or find themselves in peculiar climatic 
conditions, they are given a special supplementary ration of certain 
foodstuffs which form part of the normal ration. Thus, a soldier taking 
part in field manoeuvres obtains about 3,700 calories from his ration, 
while a soldier stationed in the mountains receives about 4,100. 

In the military schools and regimental schools, where there is a mess, 
the dietary is more varied. Usually, each school command draws up 
a list for the two meals for each day of the week, and this list is approved 
by the competent health authorities in order to preclude physiological 
or sanitary disadvantages. 

The food ration in East Africa is designed to meet all contingent 
physiological requirements ; it appears to be sufficiently varied, if one 
takes into account the special conditions of supply. The vitamin content 
is ensured by the systematic distribution of lemons, oranges and other 
fruit. 

The individual reserve ration (biscuit, 400 grammes ; tinned meat, 
200 grammes) supplies a number of calories below the normal ration. 
This is also the case in many other armies. It may be noted, however, 
that this ration is consumed only in exceptional circumstances and for 
a fairly limited time (one or two days). A scheme is under consideration 
for including in the reserve ration a tin of prepared soup, which would 
raise the number of calories by about 500. 

The dietary of the troops is subject to permanent supervision. The 
condition and state of preservation of the various foodstuffs are 
inspected at the time of purchase and when actually employed in 
the units. When large quantities of foodstuffs are purchased, steps 
are taken to make sure of their content in certain fundamental chemical 
substances. In the various units, the Food Inspection Commission 
supervises the working of the Commissariat, and the Inspector of 
Sanitary Services exercises supervision in all matters relating to 



— 139 — 

hygiene. In this connection may be mentioned the strict supervision 
that is exercised over the health of persons attached to the different 
branches of the Commissariat, with special reference to infectious 
diseases whose seat is in the intestines (detection of possible carriers). 

Navy. 

Similar criteria have determined the composition of the navy ration. 
Since the application of sanctions, it may be noted, meat has been 
stopped on Tuesdays, until further notice. With the sum representing 
the cost of the ration of 250 grammes of meat for that day, the commands 
must purchase on the market fresh fish or eggs or tinned tunny or 
" dentale ". The composition of the ration admits of changes, as the 
command, instead of purchasing part of the foodstuffs specified in the 
list, can always purchase other foodstuffs with the sum provided 

The distribution of the supplies specified in the list is effected daily 
by the Royal Marine Stores for men on shore, and by the Naval 
Commissariat for vessels of the navy. The Naval Commissariat depots 
obtain fresh supplies periodically from the naval bases' stores. 

Air Force. 

The composition of the rations, studied and introduced in the air 
force with certain additions and modifications, shows that it constitutes 
for individuals serving under very varied circumstances and conditions 
a perfect dietary, which corresponds both qualitatively and 
quantitatively to the requirements of the organism. 

The power of discretion whereby commands may replace certain 
commodities by others more suited to the season and to local conditions 
has always permitted of providing a wholesome, ample and palatable 
diet. 

All foodstuffs for the mess, which must satisfy certain technical 
requirements laid down in the special regulations, are subject to strict 
inspection at the time of purchase. 

In order to provide for members of the forces, and to some extent 
also for the civilian personnel, wholesome, adequate and properly 
prepared food with that minimum of comfort which the austere and 
fatiguing conditions of camp life — often remote from all ordinary human 
habitations — allow, special canteens have been established at all the 
service air ports and at the Royal Aeronautical Academy. 

Efforts in two other directions should also be mentioned^ — namely, 
the co-operatives and the farms established in practically all military 
airports. The co-operatives make it possible for the men to procure all 
kinds of provisions cheaply and of good quality ; the farms are engaged 
in vegetable and fruit growing and the raising of poultry for the benefit 
of the personnel of the air ports, who are thus able to enjoy a more 
varied diet. 



140 



Latvia. 



Nutrition Standards in the Latvian Army. 



The following table shows the quantity of foodstuffs consumed by a 
soldier in the Latvian army in a month : 



Product 



Standard 

of con- 
sumption 

Grammes 



Content and calorific value 



Albumens 
Grammes 



Fats 
Grammes 



Carbohy- 
drates 
Grammes 



Other 
sub- 
stances 
Grammes 



Calorific 
value in 
kilo-calo- 



Rye bread 

Wheat bread 

Fresh beef 

Salt pork 

Salted small herrings 

Fresh fish 

Tinned fish 

Fresh milk (as an ingredient) . . 

Curds 

Eggs (each) 

Bacon 

Barley meal or pearl barley . . . 

Peas 

Macaroni 

Wheat flour 

Potatoes 

Carrots 

Turnips 

Beetroot 

Fresh cabbage 

Sauerkraut 

Dried apples 

Prunes 

Starch 

Cranberries 

Salt 

Onions 

Pepper 

Coffee 

Milk (for coffee) 

Sugar 

Total for one month (31 days) 
Average per day , . . 



18,600 
6,200 
4,500 

1,485 

120 

550 

120 
4,120 

240 

0.25 

2,170 

1,710 

1,260 

360 

570 

15,350 

2,o5o 

500 

300 

930 
3,040 

100 

30 
30 

160 
620 
620 

6.2 

310 

1,860 

1,240 



1,186.68 
53940 
554-85 
318.53 

22.72 

66.22 

21.65 

123.60 

41.16 

1-57 

210.92 

197-51 

293.58 

63.06 

62.70 

307-— 

24-31 

6-95 

3-93 

14.14 

41.04 

1.42 

0.58 

0.26 

o.io 

8.06 

13-42 

55-80 



4,182.16 
134-91 



78.12 

57-66 

216.45 

399-32 

8.53 

1.27 

17-94 

123.60 

2.76 

1.50 

i;643-78 

37-79 

23-44 
7-39 
7-35 

23-03 
5-97 
0.90 
0.30 
1.40 

10.34 
0.75 
0.15 
0.02 



0.87 

4-34 

55-80 



10,131.42 

3,252-52 

11.70 



1.38 

193-64 

9.48 

0.08 

1,193-58 

662.76 

418.32 

416.10 

3,202.01 

186.64 

36.85 

20.40 

38.78 

85.42 

58.88 

15-95 
24.20 
21.70 

58.53 

10.42 

87-42 

1,233.80 



2, 730.77 
88.09 



21,371.98 
689.42 



630.54 

159-34 

523-80 

188.— 

16.97 

29.91 

21.18 

37-08 

3-— 
0.13 

116.75 

41-73 

103.83 

4-32 

5-70 

317-75 

55-62 

10.90 

5.61 

19.07 

124.34 

7-67 

5-27 

0.19 

3-30 

7-94 

257-67 
16.74 



2,713-65 
87.54 



47,128.68 

16,083.42 

4.335.30 

5,019.60 

172.48 

283.25 

261.24 

2,448.10 

233.30 

20.75 

16,151.74 

6,054.94 

4,138.97 

2,042.43 

2,031.48 

14,602.46 

920.61 

187-95 
102.33 
229.99 
608.61 
254-21 

69.13 
100.46 

93-47 

281.05 

138.11 
i,i05.2r 
5,058.58 



130,157-85 
4,198.64 



Poland. 



The army of Poland has its own nutrition standards. In peace-time, 
there are four basic food rations and four supplementary rations, 
established according to the relevant provisions. The minimum standards 
are taken as a basis and may be augmented in the various units as the 



— 141 — 

result of economical management or special grants. The composition 
and caloric value of the various basic rations and supplementary rations 
is as follows : 



PQ 






< i: 



■is 6 
< 



« « 






« o 5 - 
H 2 S ^ 



.A .2 






2 d 

a .2 



o 



•5 z 



d 



■d 
o 
o 



M M I I I 2 M I M I I I I I I M I I I I 



MM 



M M M " M I M M I 



J " M M M I M M M M I 



M M M M M I M M M M M M I 



in in 

d d 



MM 



I ^ I 



6 d 



o o 
o o 



o o 

Tj- o 



6 6 



O 

o 

00 



I 1 



10 m 
d 



O 



2 a 



W 



o 



d 
O 



•a 



05 ^ 



d X 

4J 0) 



o 



-a 



a 






O <L) 



S 1/2 m 



^ C "^ 

fci jg J3 -s 



CD 



X: 
a 

Q^ ^^ t-l M ^.^ ^u — ' ""^ ^-i i"j >-l 



g » 



1 I S. 

- s s 

a o > 

j3 ja 13 



o n d 60 i; 



— lL (-« (-^ 



S3 

0) 

d 



10 >0 ^x 00 C^ O 



m vO .tN. 00 0> O 



fO Th m 



n C< M CI M N 



Men serving in the navy receive on land the food rations and, if 
necessary, the extra rations allowed to the land army. Sailors on board 
ship always receive the extra ration for men performing heavy work 
and the anti-epidemic allowance, in addition to ordinary rations. 



142 — 



Sweden. 



In the Swedish army, the direct responsibility for the victualling of 
a military unit lies with the commanding officer, assisted by the 
commissary (quartermaster) of the regiment. They attend to the 
necessary purchases of provisions and must see to it " that the men get 
such food as is liked, and is good and plentiful, and all the necessary 
variety ". 

In each military unit, a non-commissioned officer is appointed 
superintendent of the kitchen, as such serving directly under the 
quartermaster. It devolves on the superintendent of the kitchen to 
receive and be responsible for all articles of food, to superintend 
the men's kitchen and to be responsible for the preparation and 
distribution of the food. 

The price of portions per man and day is calculated in accordance with 
an index established by the King, the s.c. normal-portion-estimate. 
As a minimum for the supply of provisions per day, there are fixed 3,675 
calories ; as the upper limit, 3,900 calories. Under circumstances of 
special exertion, the dietary is adapted accordingly. 



Bread : 

Spiced bread 
Soft coarse . 
Dry .... 

Biscuits . . 
Soft wheat . 
Bread in reserve 

Fish : 

Fresh 

Herring, pickled. 
Dry fruit . . . . 
Vegetables . . . , 
Groats 



Example of a Weekly Dietary Estimate. 

August-October November-April 



Dairy products : 

Milk (0.8% fat) . 

Unskimmed milk 

Skimmed milk . 

Cream 

Butter .... 

Cheese .... 

Flour 

Roots 

Of which potatoes 
Juice and jam. . . 
Sugar treacle . . . 



420 grammes 

360 

490 

570 



225 
125 

145 

822 
300 



1.53 litre 
2.5 .. 

0.9 ., 
0.12 ,, 

440 grammes 

310 

245 

4.265 

3.100 
820 

378 



560 grammes 

420 

490 

35 
490 

20 

225 
125 
105 
340 
235 

0.6 litre 
315 ., 
0.9 ,, 
0.1 ,, 

465 grammes 

380 

210 
2,900 
2,250 

735 

327 



May- July 

520 grammes 

360 

490 

35 ., 
595 

20 

225 
150 
105 
109 
270 

1.5 litre 

1.6 „ 
2.0 ,, 
o.ii ,, 

465 grammes 

150 

292 
2,280 
2.250 

935 

278 



Meat : 

Preserved meat . 
Dripping . . . 

Blood 

Pork, uncured 
Pork, cured. . . 

Bacon 

Mutton .... 
Brawn (from veal) 
Pork sausage . . 
Sausage, to be fried 

Suet 

German sausage 
Fresh beef . . . 
Sausage (Swedish) 

Various articles of 
food : 



— 143 - 

August-October 

200 grammes 
425 



250 
125 
150 



250 



November-April 

200 grammes 

60 
100 
120 
370 
175 



100 

125 

25 

30 

275 



May- July 

200 grammes 

40 
100 

250 



175 

175 

25 
100 

150 
250 



Chocolate (for 


the 














army) . . . 








20 




20 


9 » 


Coffee .... 




70 


9 1 


60 




70 


t t 


Tea 




I 


t f 


I 








Tomatoes . . 




200 


t f 










Almonds . . 




6 


1 1 


10 








Eggs (each) . . 




1-4 




2.4 




4-3 




Macaroni. . . 












70 


1 t 


Peas 








180 




90 


t » 


Calories, per day. 




3.721 




3,800 


3 


,680 




Albumen, grammes 














per day . , . 


. 


112 




124 




115 





The regimental doctor assists the commanding officer in examining 
questions concerning portion estimates and the like. He examines each 
dietary estimate and attests the examination. The dietary estimates 
are also controlled from a medical point of view by the doctor of the 
army division. The Health Section of the Army Board has a final right 
to examine the estimates. 

Very similar regulations are in force in the navy. 



Switzerland. 

The dietary of the army in Switzerland is designed to correspond as 
closely as possible to the dietary of civil life, the short periods of service 
precluding any systematic adaptation to a different system. Observations 
have been made mainly in connection with the training courses for 
recruits (nine to fifteen weeks, according to the arm in question). 



— 144 — 

The Swiss military ration, consisting of four main elements, is as 
follows : 

(i) Bread ration, 500 grammes. The ration is not distributed 
individually. The men help themselves as they please. It is found 
that the average consumption does not exceed 500 grammes. 

(2) Meat ration, 250 grammes. The meat (cow or ox beef) is 
replaced once a week by other meat of equivalent monetary value 
and is once a week omitted from the dietary. The 250 grammes ration 
is found perfectly adequate. 

(3) Cheese ration, 70 grammes. Available as required. The ration 
is found ample. 

(4) Vegetable portion, value 42 to 46 centimes. The portion 
includes, in addition to fresh or dried vegetables, milk, coffee, chocolate 
and tea. Experience shows that a daily expenditure within the limits 
given is ample for all requirements. 

The above observations were made on recruits (ordinarily of 20 to 21 
years of age) from all parts of Switzerland. 

Turkey. 

In Turkey, army rations are drawn up in accordance with laws and 
decrees in force. The rations of a soldier in peace-time are the following : 

Grammes 

Bread 900 

Meat 250 

Rice or threshed wheat (boulgour) . 150 

Butter 20 

Salt 20 

United States of America. 

The army ration is prescribed by the President under the provisions 
of Section 40, Act of February 2nd, 1901. The Filipino ration is prescribed 
by the Secretary of War under the provisions of Section 36, Act of 
February 2nd, 1901, as amended by the Act of May loth, 1926. 

It is the duty of the officers of the (Subsistence Department) Quarter- 
master Corps, under the direction of the Secretary of War, to issue 
to the army such supplies as enter into the composition of the ration. 

The following kinds of rations are provided : 

(i) The garrison ration ; 

(2) The Filipino ration ; 

(3) The travel ration ; 

(4) The field ration ; 

(5) The reserve ration. 



145 



Garrison Ration. — The garrison ration is that prescribed in time 
of peace for all persons entitled to a ration, except under specific 
conditions for which other rations are prescribed, and consists of the 
following : 



Meat : i 2 



Oz. 



Bacon 2 

Beef, fresh ^ 10 

Chicken, fresh 2 

Pork, fresh 4 

Eggs, fresh (each) i 

Dry vegetables and cereals : 

Beans 0.5 

Rice 0.6 

Rolled oats 1.5 



Fresh vegetables : 

Beans, string, canned . 

Corn, canned 

Onions 

Peas, canned 

Potatoes 



3 

2 
2 
2 
10 
Tomatoes, canned 2 

Fruit : 

Apples, canned 1.5 

Jam or preserves 0.5 

Peaches, canned 1.2 

Pineapple, canned 1.2 

Prunes 0.3 



Beverages : Oz. 

Coffee, roasted or roasted 

and ground 2 

Cocoa 0.3 

Tea 0.05 

Milk : 4 

Milk, evaporated i 

Milk, fresh 8 

Lard : 

Lard 0.64 

Lard substitute 0.64 

Butter 2 

Flour, wheat ^ 12 

Baking powder 0.09 

Macaroni 0.25 

Cheese 0.25 

Sugar 5 

Cinnamon 0.014 

Flavoring extract 0.02 

Pepper, black 0.04 

Pickles, cucumber 0.16 

Salt 0.5 

Sirup 0.5 

Vinegar 0.16 



The dietary of the United States navy is fixed by law : 

" Section i. — The navy ration issued to each person entitled thereto 
shall consist of the following daily allowance of provisions : Eight 
ounces of biscuit or twelve ounces of soft bread or twelve ounces of 
flour ; twelve ounces of preserved meat or fourteen ounces of salt or 



^ In Alaska, the beef component will be increased by io%, the bacon component by 33>/3% and the vegetable 
component by 20%. 

- On Thanksgiving Day and on Christmas Day, the meat component will be as follows : Tm:key, drawn, 
25 ounces ; turkey, undrawn, 28 ounces. 

^ Alternate for and hind quarters. 

* In the Philippine Islands and at remote stations where it is impracticable to procure fresh milk, the milk 
allowance will be 6 ounces of evaporated milk. 

5 When it is impracticable to bake soft bread, or if for any reason it is more economical to purchase than 
to bake it, soft bread will be a component in lieu of an equal quantity of flour. 



— 146 — 

smoked meat or twenty ounces of fresh meat or fresh fish or poultry ; 
twelve ounces of dried vegetables or eighteen ounces of canned 
vegetables or forty-four ounces of fresh vegetables ; four ounces of 
dried fruit or ten ounces of canned fruit or six ounces of preserved fruit 
or sixteen ounces of fresh fruit ; two ounces of cocoa or two ounces of 
coffee or one-half ounce of tea ; four ounces of evaporated milk or one 
ounce of powdered milk or one-half pint of fresh milk, together with 
one ounce and six-tenths ounces of butter, one and six-tenths ounces of 
cereals or rice or starch foods, one-half ounce of cheese, one and 
two-tenths ounces of eggs, one and six-tenths ounces of lard or lard 
substitute, two-fifths of a gill of oils or sauces or vinegar, five ounces 
of sugar and such quantities of baking powder and soda, flavouring 
extracts, mustard, pepper, pickles, salt, syrup, spices and yeast as 
required. 

" Section 2. — Any article comprised in the navy ration may be 
issued in excess of the authorised quantity, provided that there be 
an under-issue of the same value in some other article or articles. 

" Section 3. — The Secretary of the Navy is authorised to increase 
the above-stated allowances on those vessels having an allowed 
complement of less than one hundred and fifty men and subsisting 
on a ration allowance, when, in his opinion, such vessels are operating 
under conditions which warrant such increases. 

" Section 4. — The Secretary of the Navy is authorised to fix the 
limit of the cost of rations on destroyers, submarines, mine-sweepers, 
tugs, aircraft and other vessels subsisted under the direction of 
commanding officers." 

The Bureau of Supplies and Accounts is responsible for the purchase 
and preparation of food, and the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, through 
its medical officers, is charged with the responsibility of inspecting the 
food with respect to qualitv, manner of preparation and serving. 

Yugoslavia. 

In Yugoslavia, the problem of the feeding of the recruits for the army 
and navy has been settled by the establishment of a table of the different 
foodstuff's which go to make up the soldier's daily ration. 

The table has been compiled, having regard to particular national 
tastes and customs, with a view to providing sufficient variety while 
at the same time affording full nutritive value corresponding to the 
physical effort demanded by military service. 

The table provides for the daily supply of the following foodstuffs, 
subject to minor variations : 

I kilogramme of bread (of pure wheat flour) ; 

0.3 kilogramme of fresh meat (beef, mutton or pork) ; 



— 147 — 

O.I2-O.I5 kilogramme of dry cooking foodstuffs (haricot beans, 
rice, lentils, peas, semolina, etc.) ; or 

0.4-0.75 kilogramme of fresh vegetables (vegetable marrows, 
spinach, beans, cabbages, kale, potatoes, etc.) ; 

0.02 kilogramme of fat or oil ; 

0.056 kilogramme of condiments, various (salt, pepper, flour, vinegar) ; 

0.04-0.1 1 5 kilogramme of hot drink for the midday meal (coffee, 
tea, soup, etc.). 

The above quantities of all these products taken together represent 
some 3,500 calories. 

In addition to these normal and regular daily rations, provision is 
made for the supply of improved rations (additional meat, fat or cooked 
foods), or for the distribution of supplementary rations (pies of all kinds, 
tinned meat, cheese, etc.), in certain exceptional cases — e.g., in connection 
with epidemics, or at times when specially severe labour is required on 
fortifications, ships, etc. 

A variety of national dishes is prepared from the foodstuffs above 
mentioned. 

CHAPTER V. 

MEASURES TO ENABLE PARTICULAR CATEGORIES OF 
CONSUMERS TO OBTAIN FOODSTUFFS AT REDUCED PRICES. 

The present section will be confined to mentioning a few cases in 
which public authorities or private undertakings take steps to enable 
a category of consumers to obtain goods at reduced prices. It will not 
attempt to review systems of price control in general. 

Union of South Africa. 

Scheme for encouraging Consumption of Surplus Milk and Butter. 

The dairy industry of the Union of South Africa has expanded very 
considerably during the past few years, and production has evinced a 
consistent tendency to increase. The outcome has been that the stage 
of surplus production was reached some years ago, and, in order to 
ensure a reasonable return to the producer, steps had to be taken to 
remove the surplus from the inland market. 

Legislation was therefore enacted in 1930 to provide for the 
establishment of a Dairy Industry Control Board, which was vested, 
inter alia, with the power of determining what quantities of butter and 
cheese should be exported compulsorily from time to time under a 
system of bounty, in order to relieve the internal market from the 
depressing effect of the surplus production, with due regard to the 
Union's own requirements. The Board was at the same time also 



— 148 — 

empowered to make all possible efforts to increase the local consumption 
of dairy products. 

In view of the ever-increasing production of dairy products, the 
comparatively low level to which the prices had declined on the oversea 
market, the fact that indigent persons in the Union could not always 
afford to buy sufficient quantities of these health-promoting foods, 
especially during periodic droughts when scarcity sometimes obtained, 
and the fact that the efforts of the Board to increase local consumption 
met with little success, the Government decided, in 1935, upon an 
attempt to stimulate internal consumption of dairy products in a 
direct manner by means of a State-aided butter and milk scheme. 

Whilst the scheme will undoubtedly augment the local outlet for 
dairy products, it is still largely in the nature of an experiment, the 
effects of which are difficult to predict. That it cannot absorb the 
surplus ot the dairy industry is clear ; nor is it without elements of 
danger, inasmuch as the presence of supplies in excess of those which 
can be absorbed by competitive demand tends to depress local price- 
levels. 

On the other hand, the plan has two advantages, since, while ensuring 
a supply of health-promoting food to the indigent section of the Union's 
population, it presents an opportunity to approach the marketing 
problem from a new angle — namely, that of subsidising local consumption 
instead of export. 

To finance the scheme, the Union Parliament voted £93,000 for the 
financial year 1935-36, and it is expected that a considerably larger 
amount will be placed on the estimates for 1936-37. 

The administration of the scheme has been entrusted to the Dairy 
Industry Control Board, and falls into two parts : 

(i) The distribution of milk and cheese to children ; and 
(2) The distribution of butter to charitable institutions. 

Milk and Cheese. 

The arrangements for the distribution of milk and cheese are briefly 
as follows : 

1. The milk used is, as far as possible, drawn from existing supplies 
now used in rural areas for cheese and butter, and, in urban areas, 
from the surplus milk on the liquid market. 

2. In certain areas and at certain times, it is difficult to provide 
milk. In such cases cheese, otherwise intended for export, is rationed 
to children. 

3. The quantity of milk supplied to each child is limited to not 
more than half a pint per day ; in the case of cheese, to one ounce per 
child per day. 



— 149 — 

4- The milk or cheese is supplied on every school day of the school 
year. 

5. The milk is delivered at the schools, and is usually distributed 
amongst the children before or during the morning break, and is 
consumed at the time of supply. Where facilities are available, only 
pasteurised milk is used. 

6. The scheme applies to all children in primary classes and to 
indigent children in secondary classes. Milk is also distributed to 
pre-school children through charitable organisations. 

7. The parents of schoolchildren who are in a position to do so are 
expected to contribute 2s. per quarter towards the cost of milk 
supplied to each of their children. Payment is, however, not obligatory. 

8. It is estimated that at present about 100,000 children are 
receiving a daily ration of milk and about 100,000 a daily ration of 
cheese. It is further estimated that, as soon as the scheme is in full 
operation, about 350,000 children will benefit in this way. 

Butter. 

The distribution of butter through charitable organisations, which 
are normally unable to buy such products at ruling market prices, is 
encouraged by making supplies available at low cost : 

1. Charitable institutions and organisations approved by the 
Board are supplied with butter for consumption, or distribution, at 
a price of gd., 8d. and jd. per pound for first, second and third grade 
butter, respectively, over and above any quantity purchased by such 
institutions and organisations in the ordinary course. 

2. Butter is supplied free or at a lower rate than mentioned in 
paragraph i to such charitable organisations of a specially deserving 
nature, as may be approved by the Board. 

3. If it appears that any deserving institutions, such as schools, 
hostels and hospitals, etc., are prepared to take butter in excess 
of the quantities normally consumed by them, such additional 
butter is supplied to them at export parity price — i.e., the price which 
such butter would have realised had it been exported. 

4. The cost of carrying out the above scheme is borne by the Union 
Government. The Dairy Industry Control Board, however, contributes 
an amount equal to that which it would have been obliged to spend 
in bounty on such butter had it been exported, less the cost of 
administration and less a reasonable margin to cover the risk of any 
such butter finding its way into ordinary trade channels, in 
displacement of normal sales. 

It is estimated that, on the present basis, about 750,000 lb. of 
butter will be distributed under this scheme, and, according to reports, 
it is giving very satisfactory results, especially in respect of the supply 
of milk to schoolchildren. 



— 150 — 

United Kingdom. 

In the exceptional circumstances of the war, it was found necessary 
to introduce by gradual stages a wide system of State control of food 
supplies and prices and of the machinery of food distribution. The 
system that was evolved was peculiar to the special conditions of the 
war and was gradually liquidated after the termination of the war ; 
but the general increase of prices which took place during and since the 
war, and the greater instability of prices in the years immediately 
following the war as compared with the pre-war period, left public 
opinion keenly sensitive on questions relating to prices charged for the 
necessaries of life. 

The Profiteering Act of 191 9 gave the Board of Trade power to 
investigate prices, costs and profits of articles of common use, and to fix 
maximum prices, and made the charging of prices giving unreasonable 
profits an offence punishable by fine or imprisonment. This Act, as 
amended by subsequent Acts, remained in force for a period of less than 
two years. Under the Acts, the Board of Trade was enabled to establish 
local profiteering committees and to delegate their powers, except 
powers of price-fixing, to those committees. A number of enquiries 
were made by Standing Committees appointed under the Acts into 
various trades dealing with food and other commodities. Summarising 
this experience in his book on " British Food Control ", Sir William 
Beveridge stated that the total number of complaints investigated by 
the 1,800 profiteering committees during twenty months for which the 
Act operated was 4,700, and, of these, 75% were dismissed as irrelevant. 

In December 1922, the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries set up 
an important enquiry into the distribution and prices of agricultural 
products by appointing a Committee, under the Chairmanship of Lord 
Linlithgow, " to enquire into the methods and costs of selling and 
distributing agricultural, horticultural and dairy produce in the United 
Kingdom, and to consider whether, and if so by what means, the 
disparity between the price received by the producer and that paid by 
the consumer can be diminished". 

The Committee produced, in 1933, reports on milk and milk products, 
fruit and vegetables, meat, poultry and eggs, cereals, flour and bread and 
a final report. In its final report, the Committee emphasised the need 
for continuous investigation into food marketing and distribution. 
It said that its investigations had led it to the conclusion that the spread 
between producers' and consumers' prices was unjustifiably wide. 
" Taken as a whole, distributive costs are a far heavier burden than 
society will permanently consent to bear." 

In November 1924, the Royal Commission on Food Prices was 
appointed under the chairmanship of Sir Auckland Geddes. The 
Commission made a report in April 1925, which contained, in addition 
to a general section on food prices, sections containing the results of 
their investigations into bread, flour, wheat and meat. The Commission 



— 151 — 

recommended the establishment of a Food Council, and, in view of this 
recommendation, it did not extend its enquiries to other commodities, 
as it thought that the Food Council might carry on that work. 

The Food Council was appointed by the Prime Minister in July 1925 
to consider questions relating to the supply and price of articles of food 
of general consumption. It is not a statutory body and has no 
compulsory powers. It has made ad hoc investigations from time to 
time into various commodities, and its reports have been published. 
One example of its work is found in the drawing-up, after enquiries into 
bakers' accounts, of a scale of maximum bread prices in relation to 
flour prices. While this scale is not universally observed, it is generally 
followed by the London bakers' associations and sets a standard for 
bread prices in other parts of the country. 

The Council has produced twenty-one reports, of which nine have 
been concerned with bread, one with flour, three with milk, two with 
tea, two with meat, one with fish and one with market-garden produce. 

Reference may be made to an experiment in the distribution 
of potatoes at special prices conducted by the Potato Marketing Board 
in Bishop Auckland. This Board, the authority which regulates the 
supplies of potatoes in the United Kingdom, decided, in January 1935, 
to undertake a short local experiment in the distribution of potatoes in 
order to test the possibility of disposing of surplus supplies at specially 
low prices for consumption by necessitous families in such a way as not 
to disturb the normal operations of retail trade. Bishop Auckland, a 
small town in the coal-mining area of County Durham, where the greater 
part of the population are workers with small incomes and where 
unemployment is severe, was selected as a suitable centre. Vouchers 
were issued through the Employment Exchange to those who were 
unemployed or receiving public assistance, and these entitled the holders 
to purchase potatoes for domestic use at a favourable price. 

It was fully realised that the restriction of the benefits to unemployed 
persons was artificial, that a number of those who were in employment 
and who had a large number of dependents might be living at as low a 
level of income. But the Board was primarily concerned, not with 
social relief in Bishop Auckland, but with an experiment to ascertain 
facts, and the restriction referred to provided an easy means of identifying 
a large number of those whose purchasing power was at a low level. 
Moreover, information was available regarding their number and the 
dependents of each man's family, while the fact that every one of them 
called once or twice weekly at the local Employment Exchange facilitated 
contact and communication. The town of Bishop Auckland contains 
some 19,000 persons, and there are approximately 5,000 male insured 
workers. Of this number, 2,437 (48%) were unemployed and they had 
1,594 adult and 2,205 juvenile dependents, making 6,236 in all. To these 
persons (representing 33% of the population) a supply of potatoes was 



— 152 — 

made available for eight weeks (February, March 1935) ^^ ^ specially 
reduced price. To qualify for this suppl}-, prospective purchasers had 
to obtain a voucher from the Employment Exchange, visit a local 
retailer to get this voucher stamped, then proceed to a central warehouse, 
taking their own bag or other container, and pay cash. 

The reduction in price was 3^. per 14 lb. from an existing price of 
yd., already an abnormally low price. Thus, a family consuming 21 lb. 
weekly would save the difference between 10 14^- and 6d., or 4-%^. 
per week. The quantities in which these cheap supplies were available 
were limited to each family as follows : 

Lb. per week 

For men with wife and i child 21 

For men with wife and 2 to 4 children 42 

For men with wife and 5 to 8 children 63 

Of the full number of 20,929 vouchers issued by the Employment 
Exchange, 19,405 were utilised. 

During the period of the experiment, the normal sales of potatoes in 
the retail shops fell by 40%, but the total consumption in the whole 
area rose by no less than 96%. Even if allowance is made for the stocks 
left on hand and for the fall in sales by fried-fish shops, the increase is 
still 69%. 

This experiment definitely .showed that, in a town having a high 
proportion of low-level incomes, and even at a time when prices were 
already exceptionally low, the consumption of an article like potatoes, 
the demand for which is usually regarded as inelastic, is, under certain 
conditions, responsive to a fall in price to a remarkable degree. The 
experiment also showed that, if there are cheap surplus supplies available 
which it is desired to dispose of without disturbing the general price 
structure, it is possible to devise machinery whereby the retailers' contact 
with their consumers is maintained, even if such supplies are not sold 
from their existing shops. 

Bulgaria. 

In Bulgaria, the Directorate for the Purchase and Export of Cereals, 
by fixing for agricultural products prices which, though not very high, 
are at all events stable, has safeguarded the rural population against 
price speculation and thus banished one very serious danger that 
threatens every agricultural producer — the danger that he may be 
obliged to sell his products for a song. On the other hand, thanks to 
the granaries established by the Directorate throughout the country 
and to the agricultural co-operative societies, the rural population, 
when threatened with famine after a poor harvest, can obtain effective 
assistance either through the Agricultural and Co-operative Bank or 
through the " Public Calamities Fund ". Assistance is in the form of 
cereals, which are distributed for consumption or sowing. 



— 153 — 



Czechoslovakia. 



On July 2oth, 1935, the Government of Czechoslovakia stated that 
it would take steps to prevent any advance in the price-level of flour and 
bread. The various State departments at once ascertained the prices 
of flour paid on July 15th, both wholesale and retail, and these prices 
served as a basis for the publication of the maximum prices of fiour 
in the different districts. The fixing of prices had another advantage 
— i.e., the various grades of flour were to some extent standardised. 
Flour-mills were thus prevented from increasing their sales by offering 
products of an inferior quality at a lower price. Prices have been kept at 
the same level because the Government authorised the Czechoslovak 
Wheat Company to supply the mills with sufficient quantities of old 
wheat and rye at a reduced price. This made it impossible for the millers 
to raise their prices. 

The price of bread was stabilised by similar means, thanks to the 
establishment of the Millers' Union, which helped to keep the prices 
of flour uniform. 

It was also found necessary to arrange for a sufficient supply of potatoes 
at a low price. A large quantity is used for the manufacture of alcohol. 
In order to ensure an adequate supply for the population, when the 
potato crop was rather less plentiful than the average, a part of the 
barley stocks were sent to the alcohol distilleries, and a large part of the 
potato crop was thus kept for direct consumption. The stability of the 
market price-level was ensured by an arrangement with producers ; 
after September 15th, there was practically no fluctuation in the price 
of potatoes in the agricultural markets, although the crop was 20% or 
30% smaller than last year's crop. The quantity of potatoes required 
for the unemployed was set aside by the association for the marketing 
of potatoes, and an increase in prices in the various districts where the 
demand is greatest and prices are most likely to rise was thus prevented 
in the interest of the unemployed, who would otherwise have had to do 
without potatoes. This association arranged for potatoes to be supplied 
to the poorest classes of the population at cost price. To prevent heavy 
transport charges on potatoes for the unemployed, the Ministry of 
Railways made a reduction of 40% on those consignments ; 3,000 
truck-loads— i.e., 10,000 kilogrammes of potatoes — were thus obtained 
for the unemployed. The quality of the potatoes was satisfactory in the 
case of the first 2,000 truck-loads ; 14,000 truck-loads were stopped 
because the quality did not come up to the required standard. 

Various measures have been taken to ensure an adequate supply of 
meat and animal products for the unemployed ; in particular, imports 
of fatted pigs have been increased considerably. During the first ten 
months of 1935, 155,000 fat pigs were imported, whereas during the 
whole of 1934 only 80,000 entered Czechoslovakia. Although these 
imports were prejudicial to the interests of home producers, the 
Government did not hesitate to take this step in order that the price- 



— 154 — 

level of animal products might be kept comparatively low. For the 
same reason, the import duty on pork fat was reduced to 90 crowns 
for raw pork fat and 120 crowns for lard, the normal import duty being 
360 crowns per 100 kilogrammes. 

France. 

Agricultural Production Associations. 

Agricultural production co-operatives and syndicates are now devoting 
special attention to quality. In the matter of vegetable products, the 
National Federation of Co-operatives and syndicates of fruit-growers, 
market-gardeners, horticulturists and producers of other agricultural 
products has recently, for the purpose of improving and supervising 
quality, adopted a series of measures which have proved effective from 
the outset. 

These measures are of two kinds : general, with a view to establishing 
liaison with certain national organisations having a specified range of 
action ; and particular, in that they are peculiar to the co-operative 
movement itself. 

As examples of the first category, we may mention the increasingly 
close co-operation with the National Federation for the campaign against 
farm and garden pests. The joint study of increasingly important 
documentary material greatly facilitates the campaign against these 
pests by the institution of better methods of defence and the growing 
of good-quality fruit and vegetables. 

As a national measure, the National Federation of Co-operatives has 
created a national mark which is affixed to goods packed in co-operative 
workshops. These workshops ai"e subject to supervision as regards 
methods of packing, and the mark is granted as a reward for the 
maintenance of satisfactory conditions. 

The extension of this practice has been made possible by the 
establishment of central co-operative packing-stations working for 
numerous producers in neighbouring communes or for syndicates. 

Various enquiries have shown that a regularly uniform packing cannot 
be obtained in small or homecraft industries, and that a mark will only 
engender confidence when it stands for some regular and reliable method 
of work in connection with a large volume of important products. 

As a result of this effort and the relations which have been established 
with consumers' co-operatives, only those producers' co-operatives 
which accept the control of the National Federation are allowed to 
tender to the wholesale warehouse of the co-operatives of France. 

It should also be mentioned that the National Federation advises its 
affiliated groups regarding the choice of fruit-trees for planting, the choice 
of varieties, the distribution of grafts and second grafting. Finally, the 
creation of syndicates for the defence of appellations of origin also 
provides a possibility of protecting quality. 



— 155 — 

In the matter of products of animal origin, the agricultural 
co-operatives and syndicates have also been very active. Live-stock 
breeding syndicates have, by the introduction of pedigree registers, 
contributed to the improvement of stock. Numerous steps have already 
been taken to improve French live-stock. The Law of July 7th, 1933, on 
bovine tuberculosis applied through the intermediary of agricultural 
co-operatives, has made it possible to put a stop to the use of, or dealings 
in, tuberculous cattle. The main result of this will be healthier meat 
and milk. 

In the matter of milk products, the efforts of the production 
associations have achieved incontestable results. The quality of the 
milk delivered for consumption and its purity have been very appreciably 
improved. The quantity of good milk produced has also increased. The 
filtering and pasteurisation of milk and cream, payment according to 
fat content, the establishment of markets and the development of 
supervisory syndicates for dairy products show what great progress has 
been made. 

In the case of vinicultural co-operatives, better wine-making methods 
have secured similar results. 

Consumers' Co-operatives. 

These voluntary associations of consumers are in a unique and 
privileged position, in that they are in direct and permanent contact 
with their members, whose needs they know and whose tastes they can 
form. 

Already on their own initiative they have endeavoured to improve 
the standard of living of their members and, in particular, to ameliorate 
the conditions of nutrition. 

The consumers' co-operative societies have employed divers methods 
to achieve this purpose. In the first place, they have sought to increase 
the purchasing power of their members by reducing overhead expenditure 
in such a way as to enable them to allow considerable discount. Moreover, 
by the improvement of commercial methods, good quality products 
are supplied to members. Group purchases are made by the wholesale 
house of the co-operatives of France. The introduction of a registered 
trade-mark that may be used if the quality and the make-up of the goods 
is satisfactory constitutes and even greater guarantee for consumers. 

Finally, this system has made it possible, through the intermediary 
of small branches, to reach even the most remote country districts and 
thus bring to the rural population products formerly unknown or 
delivered under unsatisfactory conditions. 

Private Traders. 

Industrial and commercial concerns have in their respective domains 
seconded the efforts to improve the conditions in which foodstuffs 
reach the consumer. 



— 156 - 

The reduction of overhead expenses and diminution of waste makes 
it possible, as a result of lower selling prices, for greater numbers of the 
less weathy citizens to procure more abundant foodstuffs in greater 
variety. 

Moreover, a wider choice of products, improvements in the waj' in 
which these products are offered to the public, the possibility of 
purchasing smaller packets, etc., the good name acquired by the quality 
of a large number of national trade-marks — we need only quote, for 
instance, the production and preservation of milk products, pork- 
butchers' wares, biscuits, chocolates, etc. — also help, in some cases, to 
stimulate consumption. 

A large part of the population now possesses a far wider marketing 
range than hitherto, particularly in rural and industrial districts, and 
these facilities are constantly being extended through the wholesale 
trading organisations which supply retailers in small townships and 
country districts, and through the close network of stores or branches 
founded by general food supply firms and chain store organisations, 
which were the real initiators of this system of distributing a large 
variety of products widely throughout the country. 

The policy of the trade associations and federations in the food 
branch, which is co-ordinated by the National Confederation of the 
Food Trade and industry, is to reduce as far as possible the overhead 
charges and costs of foodstuffs before they reach the public and to see 
that the poorer classes obtain the benefit of abundant production. 

Italy. 

Food and Wages. 

The problem of the diet of the working-classes calls for practical 
measures of various kinds which find their natural field of development 
in the trade unions and corporations. Generally speaking, two different 
policies have been followed. When, as occurs under many agricultural 
contracts, part of the wage is paid in products directly used to feed the 
labourer, efforts to improve the dietary are made through the trade 
unions on the basis of the collective contract. If, on the other hand, 
even though a money wage is paid, the terms of employment involve the 
consumption of meals on the employers' property, it is a common custom 
in agricultural work for the employer to supply all or part of the worker's 
meals. In such cases, several collective contracts lay down rules for the 
protection of the worker's interests as regards the quality and price 
of the food supplied. 

Contracts stipulating Payment of Part Wages in Kind. 

This is a very important form of contract. Under it, not only does the 
worker, as it were, share in the production in order to enjoy certain 
benefits but he has also the possibility of using for himself and his 
family the part of those products which he received as wages and which 



— 157 — 

are usually staple commodities. The consumption of these products, 
therefore, means a considerable saving to the worker on the amounts 
which he would otherwise have to spend on buying them. 

Of the numerous collective contracts of this class, mention may be 
made of that enacted for the Province of Turin. 



Contracts stipulating the Supply of Food. 

Many collective contracts stipulate the supply of food to agricultural 
labourers. There are rules under which the employer must give 
the labourer a certain daily ration of wholesome, nourishing and good- 
quality food. These measures aim at guaranteeing the worker a sufficient 
supply of food capable of giving him the necessary energy to do his 
work, and at the same time protecting him from possible abuses as 
regards the quality of the foodstuffs supplied. 

Contracts of this are stipulated, for instance, for labourers engaged 
in the rice harvest ; under such contracts, the employer, in addition to 
a money wage, also supplies the food. On holidays, the employer pays 
the whole cost of the food, while on working-days the cost is borne by 
the labourers, the employer deducting a small amount (i lira) from the 
wages. 

In addition to the supply of food, measures have been taken on the 
initiative of the " Ufficio Nazionale Monda " to set up hutments, 
convenient and healthy shelters, refectories and day nurseries for the 
children of working mothers. Thanks to these measures, men returning 
from work find their dinner ready in healthy and comfortable 
surroundings. As an example of this type of collective contract, we may 
mention that of the Province of Vercelli. Steps have likewise been taken 
to organise the supply of food to shepherds, and particularly those 
moving about from one pasture to another. Similar measures have been 
adopted in the case of workers employed in oil-mills and on the harvesting 
and threshing of wheat, etc., for whose benefit the supply of food, 
wholly or partly at the employer's expense, has been made compulsory. 

Under almost all these contracts, provision is made for the supply 
of wine in moderation — that is to say, in quantities sufficient to make 
the meal wholesome and complete. 

" Metayage ". 

To enable workers' families to secure the best possible nutrition, 
efforts are being made to do away with the employment of agricultural 
workers as day labourers and the more general adoption of the 
metayage system of husbandry, by which the conditions of workers 
and their families are improved, not only because it ensures the necessary 
minimum of subsistence and stability, but also because it gives workers 
a direct share in the products of their labour, foodstuffs included. 
The gradual extension of the metayage system, which has long been 



- 158 - 

established in the fertile regions of Central Italj?, has been effected 
either through the adaptation of the systems obtaining on land already 
under cultivation or through its application to the agricultural workers 
who, with their families, have been settled on the land made available 
by the immense work of land reclamation undertaken and carried out 
by the Fascist Government under the name of " total reconditioning ". 

Family Allowances. 

In the last place, the desire to improve the nutrition of workers, 
suggested another measure of a general character which deserves 
mention : the introduction of " family allowances " through which 
workers' wages, instead of following an invariable and identical scale 
for all those belonging to the same category, is increased in proportion 
to the size of the families which they have to support. 

Moderating Influence on Foodstuff Prices. 

In Italy, the possibility of increasing the purchasing power of workers 
in general through measures to keep down the cost of foodstuffs is an 
aim which is pursued by the combined efforts of the State and the various 
corporative organs. 

Control of Prices in general. 

The regulation of the prices of staple commodities is effected by the 
competent corporative organisations and by the Fascist Party in such 
a way as to prevent abuses and excessive price increases, while at the 
same time guaranteeing an equitable profit to all economic interests. 

Such regulation is achieved in two ways : 

[a) By fixing maxima for the retail prices of the chief articles of 
food (bread, flour, pastes, meat, oil, butter, cheese, dried fish). These 
maxima are fixed periodically (as a rule, every fifteen days) by 
authorities set up in accordance with the corporative principle — that 
is to say, by provincial intersyndical committees, which base their 
decisions on the information and cost prices indicated by a central 
price committee presided over by the secretary of the Fascist Party 
and made up of representatives of all the employers' and workers' 
confederations ; 

(&) By the discipline of the members of the various commercial 
categories grouped in their syndical organisations. 

It is, indeed, the traders' syndical organisation which follows price 
movements, and, on detecting excessive or unwarranted rises, intervenes 
either by persuasion or disciplinary action or by requesting the 
Government to take the appropriate economic measures. 



— 159 — 

Corporative Action with regard to Prices among Factory 

Workers. 

To the Government belongs the credit of having broken in Italy the 
vicious circle of wage increases consequent upon price increases, and price 
increases consequent upon wage increases, while at the same time 
endeavouring to reduce the cost of living. This action, which was carried 
out by the Confederation of Industry, with Government encouragement, 
began early in 1925 with the creation in all industrial centres of industrial 
supply organisations and stores serving one or more factories. 
Approximately one thousand firms are connected with the industrial 
supply centres at Milan and Biella, which have an average monthly 
turnover of ten million lire. 

Factory Stores. 

The monthly turnover of factory co-operatives and co-operatives 
common to several undertakings reaches approximately the same total. 
The influence of such stores on local prices is immediate and appreciable. 
According to the calculations of the meeting of statistical experts at 
Milan in July 1920, the savings thus effected each month by a working- 
class family of five persons (two adults and three children) on the fifteen 
most essential articles of food amounted to 142.50 lire during the first 
year of operation of one of the above-mentioned industrial supply 
organisations. 

These factory stores, which were set up during an abnormal period 
in our economic development, still exercise a steadying influence on 
the market and are widely and freely patronised by their special public. 
They have, indeed, become implanted in the habits of working-class 
families, whom they supply with good quality goods at reasonable 
prices. There are at present approximately 2,500 undertakings which 
have their own stores or which are connected with industrial supply 
organisations. 

Function of Consumers' Co-operatives. 

The development of the consumers' co-operative movement in Italy 
is closely connected with certain special conditions governing the food 
supply. The latter presents different aspects, both hygienic and economic, 
according to whether it affects agricultural or industrial centres and an 
agricultural or industrial population. 

The agricultural population needs a frugal but wholesome diet, 
which is excellent in the metayage areas but is more modest in the districts 
in which the system of daily hire and paid agricultural labour prevails. 
In all cases, the nutrition of the agricultural population is exclusively 
based on local agricultural produce, except in the mountain districts. 

The importance of the consumers' co-operative movement, on the 
basis of the sales per head of the population, is therefore greatest in 
the industrial provinces. It is less marked, on the other hand, in the 



— i6o — 

Marches, Umbria, Latium, the Abruzzi and the whole of southern 
Italy, Sicily and Sardinia. 

In the mountain districts, where it is more difficult to supply the 
population with food, and where, owing to their situation at a distance 
from the main routes of traffic, commercial competition is less keen 
and capitalist commercial speculation is easier, the consumers' co- 
operative has an extremely important double function : the technical 
function of improving supplies by the substitution of co-operative 
initiative for individual and capitalist initiative, which is found to be 
inadequate ; and the economic function of eliminating speculation, 
which is easy in connection with the distribution of foodstuffs. 

Effects on the Market Price. 

The Italian consumers' co-operatives really succeed in reducing the 
cost of foodstuffs and increasing the relative purchasing power of 
workers' wages. In support of this assertion, it may be added that, in 
order not to confine their economic action solely to their members, 
they also sell to non-members ; and they aim at selling at the lowest 
possible price rather than at paying dividends to their members in 
proportion to purchases made during the financial year. 

The sums which the Italian co-operative societies distribute at the 
end of the year to consumers in proportion to their purchases are modest. 
Members are rarely paid more than 2% on their purchases ; but the 
profit derived by consumers from prices below those usually prevailing 
in trade is much greater. 

The " Provvida ". 

Lastly, mention should be made, in connection with the regulation 
of prices, of the part played by the consumers' co-operatives and the 
" Provvida ", an organisation for the supply of foodstuffs administered 
by the Ministry of Communications. 

The special food administration, "La Provvida", was instituted by 
Royal Decree dated March 5th, 1925, under the authority of the 
Communications Ministry, for the purpose of taking over and improving 
the activities hitherto entrusted to several co-operative societies of 
minor importance which existed among the staff of the Ministry. 

The aims of La Provvida are : 

(i) To lower prices by offering staple foodstuffs direct to the 

consumer, by eliminating costs of middlemen, advertisements, 

etc., which burden ordinary commerce, and the excessive profits 

(frequent in numerous cases) of the speculator ; 

(2) To ensure for increasingly wide circles of the population a 
supply of hygienically supervised foodstuffs, thus indirectly combating 
the growing use of substitutes and counterfeits, and the substitution 
of goods of inferior quality at the moment of sale ; 

(3) To perform charitable and relief work by setting aside for 
these purposes the greater part of the net profits, 



— i6i — 

Constituted on this basis, the " Provvida ", which began operations 
with two retail shops, had 327 all over Italy by June 30th, 1935. The 
sales of these shops to consumers amounted to 3,700,000 lire in 1924-25 
and 264,063,434 lire in 1934-35. They sold 567,000 kilogrammes in 
1924-25 and 92,667,499 kilogrammes in 1934-35. 

During these ten years, the " Provvida " paid a total of 44,000,000 
lire to charitable organisations. It now possesses a complete organisation 
for supplying the population, and its development is deliberately kept 
within reasonable limits so as not to injure free trade ; but, as any 
member of the " Dopolavoro " may buy at the " Provvida ", it represents 
all that a Government can do under a system of entirely free trade to 
give the masses an opportunity of buying food of excellent quality at 
a moderate price. 

These direct results of the institution and the necessity of taking into 
account the competition of free trade, as well as the indirect pressure 
exercised by the possibility of a greater development of the " Provvida ", 
contribute to a remarkable degree towards regulating the trade in 
foodstuffs by providing a hygienic and cheap diet for the less well-to-do 
classes and by protecting them against those artificial shortages of 
goods which, when created in regard to staple foodstuffs, have very 
serious effects on the general welfare. 

Netherlands. 
Netherlands East Indies. 

In normal times, neither the Government of the Netherlands Indies 
nor the local authorities take practical measures to distribute foodstuffs 
to various groups of the population. If necessary, they are distributed 
by charitable organisations. In cases of famine due to the failure of 
the rice crop, the deficiency is made good by the import of rice from 
Siam, India or Indo-China. The imported rice is distributed at a low 
price or free of charge to the population of the districts affected by the 
famine. These cases are exceptional, and the distribution of foodstuffs 
is purely local and temporary. 

Poland. 

In Poland, the Decree of the President of the Republic on " the 
supplying of the market with staple commodities " is the basis for control 
of the prices of the most important articles of food. The daily prices 
must be approved by the administrative authorities, whose aim it is 
to put down speculation. All the essential foodstuffs — bread, meat, 
sugar, fat, dairy produce, etc. — fall within the scope of this law. 

Improvements in the food of factory workers are mainly due to 
the private initiative of the concerns which organise, in factories and 
workshops, kitchens and restaurants where meals are issued to the 
staff either free of charge or at a low price. 



l62 



Switzerland. 

In several Swiss towns there are popular kitchens — some of them very- 
old-established — frequently financed by foundations of various kinds, 
which serve meals at cost price. In certain instances, the price is even 
further reduced through the assistance of voluntary workers, more 
particularly on the administrative side. Reference may be made to : 

(a) The popular kitchens at Geneva, where a complete meal 
can be obtained for from 70 to 80 centimes ; 

(6) The Soci6t6 vaudoise de consommation at Lausanne which 
issues monthly cards at a cost of 30 francs, entitling holders to one 
full meal each day ; 

(c) The workers' clubs, of which twenty-five have been founded 
in Switzerland, where a satisfactory meal can be obtained for from 
40 to 50 centimes. 

The Confederation grants a subsidy, to encourage the slaughter of 
cows for beef, to cantons and communes willing to supply the meat 
thus obtained to necessitous persons at reduced prices. In practice, 
this system is based upon the co-operation of stock-breeders, who sell 
their stock at low prices, while satisfying the requirements of the 
veterinary regulations ; of the butchers, who, in return for very small 
remuneration, undertake slaughtering, cutting-up and sale under official 
supervision, and, in the last place, of the general body of taxpayers, 
who bear part of the financial burden. It would appear that this system 
is likely to develop. The Canton of Geneva, for example, at present 
issues 40,000 vouchers, each representing 2 kilogrammes of meat, in 
the main to unemployed persons with families dependent upon them. 
The cost of such vouchers is 1.60 franc. 

Uruguay. 

Municipal departments are responsible for seeing that foodstuffs are 
sold at low prices. The cheapness of foodstufts is a fundamental factor 
in Uruguay, where no problems of defective states of nutrition due to 
underfeeding arise and where, among sick children, in classical cases 
of inadequate and protracted artificial nutrition, it is exceptional to find 
clinical deficiency syndromes. 

Yugoslavia. 

Price Variations. 

The price situation in Yugoslavia is highly complicated. Yugoslavia 
consists partly of rural producing and exporting areas and partly of 
areas and towns which have to buy their food, especially vegetables. 
Consequently, there is a great difference between the prices obtained 



— i63 — 

for wheat by the peasants who grow it in the north-east (the Vojvodina, 
which is the granary of the country) and by those in the west and south- 
west — Southern Croatia, Dalmatia, Bosnia, Herzegovina and 
Montenegro — who buy it from those more fertile areas. So wide is the 
difference that, in Montenegro, for example, the retail price of maize 
is 1 00%, and that of wheat 75%, more than in the producing areas. 

Owing to the low prices of agricultural produce on the world markets, 
the Government is endeavouring, with the help of the Privileged Export 
Company, to keep them high enough for the Yugoslav peasants who work 
for the market to make a profit. The main reason for this is the wide 
gap between the prices of agricultural and industrial products in 
Yugoslavia. Notwithstanding these efforts, the gap is still very wide ; 
for instance, the price of a Sack plough in Germany represents 3.30 
quintals of wheat, whereas in Yugoslavia it represents 9 quintals of 
wheat. 

From another point of view, however, the Government's policy of 
increasing agricultural produce prices would be against the interests of the 
people of the " passive " areas, whose economic condition is such 
that they could not maintain an adequate dietary even if prices were 
equal to those on the world markets. 

There is also another point. Distribution is inadequately organised, 
and communications are bad, especially in the rocky and " passive " 
areas. The absence of consumers' co-operative societies is very seriously 
felt ; the}'- are hardly worth mentioning, except in the north-west 
(Slovenia), the only other important one being the Government Officials' 
Co-operative Supply Association, which has 80,000 members, 
representing with their families 300,000 people in all. 

Price Control. 

In order to protect the consumers against excessive increases in the 
price of foodstuffs, the Law of November 5th, 1931, authorises the police 
to fix maximum prices for the retail sale of foodstuffs and articles of 
prime necessity in the shops concerned and for their consumption in 
cafes and restaurants. Retailers of articles of prime necessity and 
owners of cafes and restaurants must post up their prices in such a 
manner that they can be easily seen by the purchasers and guests. 

For the same purpose, the law to prevent the high cost of living and 
illegal speculation, of December 30th, 1921, provides that any person 
selling foodstuffs in shops, on the market or in any other place must 
indicate the price of each article, either jointly or separately, in such 
a manner that the prices are visible to all. 

Breaches of this provision are punishable by three months' im- 
prisonment and a fine of 10,000 dinars. 

The law prohibits the storing of foodstuffs with a view to withdrawing 
them from the market in order to raise prices ; breaches of this rule 
are punishable by six months' imprisonment and a fine of 50,000 dinars. 



— 164 — 

The law prohibits sellers from asking a price higher than that which 
would provide a normal and legitimate commercial profit, which may 
not in any case exceed 25%. Breaches are punishable by three months' 
imprisonment and a fine of 10,000 dinars. Persons who give false measure 
or reduce the portions of foodstuffs for sale are liable to the same penalty. 

Multiple resale and illicit speculation intended to increase the price 
of foodstuffs are forbidden, as well as any agreements between producers 
or middlemen with the object of raising the price of goods. It is 
forbidden to re-purchase foodstuffs which have already been sold on 
the same market the same day. Merchants and dealers must effect 
their sales and purchases for the purpose of providing retailers with 
fresh supplies after the hour fixed for retail sales at the same place. 

It is forbidden to purchasse from any person carrying foodstuffs to 
the market and selling them on the way with the intention of depriving 
the market of the goods, or reducing the quantity offered for sale in 
order to raise prices. 

Large fines are imposed for breaches of these rules. 



CHAPTER VI. 

MEASURES FOR ENSURING THE QUALITY OF FOODSTUFFS. ^ 

The State intervenes in nutrition by the institution of a public service 
for the prevention of adulteration and the supervision of the quality 
of foodstuffs. 

Argentine Republic. 

The Health Boards of each province deal with problems relating to 
the supervision of foodstuffs, and two Food Codes have been promulgated : 
one for the province of Buenos Aires and the other for that of Santa 
F6. The capital of the Republic submitted its Code for examination 
to a Commission set up two years ago by the Municipal Administration. 
Imported foodstuffs are supervised by the National Chemical Laboratory, 
and foodstuffs consumed in the City of Buenos Aires by the Municipal 
Chemical Laboratory. 

Austria. 

" Codex Alimentarius Austriacus ". 

In Austria, the " Codex Alimentarius Austriacus " is intended to 
serve as a technical guide for the supervision of foodstuffs. The first 
edition was issued in 1891, in the time of the former Austro-Hungarian 
monarchy. A new edition of the Codex for Austria is nearly completed. 



1 See also the report published by the League in 1930 : " Survey of the direct and indirect means at the 
disposal of foreign buyers to enable them, in a number of countries, to ascertain the quality of the goods 
acquired by them ". Document C.624.M.246.1930.II. 



- i65 — 

The various parts of the nutrition code are classified on uniform 
lines. A list of legal provisions precedes each of the following chapters : 
(i) Description, (2) Taking Samples, (3) Testing (Analysis, etc.), (4) 
Findings, (5) Rules for the Trade, (6) Utilisation of Products not fit 
for Human Consumption. 

The nutrition code has not the force of law, like a Government Decree, 
but provides a criterion for institutions responsible for examining and 
testing foodstuffs, both from the chemical and the health points of 
view, and is also often consulted by the interested branches of 
industry. 

This code, which is kept up to date by means of supplements, is a 
basis for the uniform and effective supervision of the foodstuffs trade 
in Austria. 



Supervision of the Trade in Foostuffs. 

Transactions in foodstuffs in general are governed by the Foodstuffs 
Act of January i6th, 1896. The trade in margarine, wine and home- 
made wine is dealt with in special legislation (1901, 1925, 1929). On 
the basis of these Acts, numerous regulations have been issued relating 
to their enforcement. 

Under the Foodstuffs Act, Government analytical institutes have 
been set up for the technical analysis of foodstuffs and certain 
commodities in general use. Such " Federal Institutes for the Analysis 
of Foodstuffs " now exist in Vienna, Graz and Innsbruck. 

In addition, the Agricultural Chemical Experimental Stations in 
Vienna and Linz have been commissioned to act as special Government 
analytical institutes. Among provincial institutions may be mentioned 
the Carinthian Provincial Experimental and Analytical Institute for 
Foodstuffs at Klagenfurt and the Vorarlberg Provincial Chemical 
Experimental Institute at Bregenz. 

The Government analytical institutes are obliged to make a technical 
analysis of foodstuffs and certain commodities in general use at the 
request either of the authorities or law courts or of private individuals, 
and to issue reports and expert opinions thereon. If, in this connection, 
an analytical institute suspects the existence of a criminal offence, it 
must notify the Public Prosecutor accordingly. 

The Margarine Act enacts provisions for the trade in margarine, 
oleo-margarine and other artificial fats. It is forbidden, in particular, 
to market admixtures of butter and the above-mentioned fats, and it 
is further directed that margarine may be sold only if during manufacture 
a certain admixture is added for purposes of identification. Furthermore, 
the fats referred to may be marketed only in containers distinguished 
by a conspicuous coloured band marked with the name of the 
manufacturer and a description of the contents. In retail trade, the 
paper wrapper must also have the coloured band. 



— i66 — 

The provisions of the Wine Act aim at preventing the adulteration 
of wine, miist and fruit-wine : but exceptions are made for fruit-juices, 
mead (honey-wine) and medicinal wines. 

To meet the demand for specialists with academic and practical 
qualifications for performing independently the duties laid upon public 
analytical institutes by the Foodstuffs Act, the Ministerial Decrees 
of October 13th, 1897, August ist, 1900, and May 24th, 1909, define 
the basic features of the curriculum to be followed and examinations 
to be passed by food inspectors. 

Under the Ministerial Decrees of May 25th, 1908, and August 22nd, 
1922, courses of study for the training of sanitary and food inspectors 
were opened at the Federal Institute for Foodstuff Analysis. 

Belgium. 

In Belgium, measures have been taken to regulate the sale of certain 
products available for consumers. The majority of these measures 
have been taken under the Ro3'al Decree of February 26th, 1935, to 
ensure Fair Trading in Agricultural Products and Garden Produce, 
or under the Ministerial Order of May 21st, 1935, for the Regulation 
of the Sale of Certain Fruits and Vegetables. 

The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for the prevention of 
adulteration. The work is carried out through inspectors and assistant 
inspectors of the Service for the Inspection of Foodstuffs. In addition 
to their main duties — i.e., the detection and punishment of food 
adulteration — these officials and agents assist by advice in the work 
of improving the standard of foodstuffs offered to the public. 

United Kingdom. 

In England and Wales, several statutes, and the regulations made 
under them, deal with the composition and purity of articles of food 
and drink. Their execution mainly rests with specified classes of local 
authorities. The Ministry of Health, however, exercises inflvience upon 
the administration of the statutes and regulations by such means as 
the issue either of circular or special letters of advice, and the publication 
of special reports. Further, under the Local Government Act, 1929, 
a comprehensive survey of the administration by local authorities of 
their public health services is periodically carried out by medical officers 
of the Ministry'. 

The principal provisions of the statutes and regulations which are 
mainly relevant in the present connection are briefly indicated below. 

Food and Drugs (Adulteration) Act, 1928. 

This Statute, which consolidated a number of earlier Acts, contains 
two main prohibitions ; 



— 167 — 

(i) The sale of an article of food which has to the knowledge 
of the vendor been rendered injurious to health ; and 

(2) The sale to the prejudice of the purchaser of an article of food 
differing from that demanded. 

By a further provision, a person prosecuted may plead as a defence, 
broadly speaking, that he purchased the article under a written warranty 
that it was such as was demanded by his customer ; that he had no 
reason to believe that it was otherwise at the time he sold it ; and that 
he sold it in the same state as when he purchased it. 

The Act contains certain special provisions relating to milk, and also 
empowers the Minister of Agriculture to make certain regulations as to 
the constituents of milk, butter and other articles. It also contains a 
number of special provisions for the protection of the public against 
fraud in connection with the sale of butter, margarine and cheese. 

Articles of food are not defined in the Act, with certain partial 
exceptions, and where no definition is prescribed by statute the decision 
whether a particular article falls within the definition of the name 
under which it was sold rests, in the event of a dispute, with the court 
of summary jurisdiction before which proceedings are taken. The court 
decides this on the evidence before it ; and its decision on the question 
of fact is not binding on another court. The result has, however, been 
that standards of composition have become generally recognised for very 
many articles. Reports on a number of special points in relation to the 
composition of food have also been made by the Ministry of Health. 
The recommendations made in these reports, though of course not 
authoritative in law, have to a large extent been adopted by the courts 
in deciding cases which have come before them. 

The local authorities who enforce the Act must appoint public analysts, 
whose appointment and removal are subject to the approval of the 
Minister of Health. Enforcement is, in general, effected by means of 
the purchase of samples from a retailer by an officer of a local authority. 
The officer divides the sample into three parts, one being sent to the 
public analyst for analysis, one given to the retailer to enable him to 
have an independent analysis made, and the third retained so that it 
may, if necessary, be sent to the Government Chemist. 

Public Health Acts. 

(a) Public Health Act, 1875, and Public Health Acts Amendment Act, 

1890. 

Officers of the appropriate local authority may inspect and examine 
any article of food exposed for sale or deposited for preparation for sale 
for human consumption, and, if the article appears to be diseased, 
unsound, unwholesome or unfit for food, it may be seized and taken 
before a Justice of the Peace. The latter may condemn it and order 



— i68 — 

it to be destroyed or so disposed of as to prevent it from being used 
for human food. The vendor may also be fined or imprisoned. 

These Acts also include provision for the erection of public slaughter- 
houses by local authorities, the licensing of private slaughter-houses, 
and the making of bye-laws for slaughter-houses. 

(b) The Public Health Act, igz^. 

Requirements are prescribed for shops, etc. (other than premises 
coming within the scope of Regulations under the Act of 1907 referred 
to below), where food is sold or prepared for sale relating to sanitation, 
ventilation and cleanliness, and requiring the occupier to take all 
reasonable steps to prevent risk of contamination to the food. 

The statutes referred to in (a) and (b) above, do not apply to London, 
but similar measures are in force under special codes of legislation relating 
to London only. 

(c) The Public Health {Regulations as to Food) Act, 1907. 

This Act empowers the Minister of Health to make regulations for 
the prevention of danger to public health from the importation, 
preparation, storage and distribution of articles of food and drink 
intended for sale for human consumption. Several series of regulations 
have been made under the powers conferred by this Act and other Acts. 

(d) Public Health {Preservatives, etc., in Food) Regulations, 1925-1927. 

These regulations prohibit the addition of preservatives, as defined 
in the Regulations, to any article of food or drink, and the importation 
of food or drink containing added preservative, except within specified 
limits in the case of certain scheduled articles, some of which must be 
labelled to show the preservatives which they contain ; restrictions are 
also placed on the sale of preservatives ; and a further schedule contains 
a list of colouring matters which are prohibited. 

(e) Public Health (Condensed and Dried Milk) Regulations. 

An amendment to the Act of 1907 enabled the Minister to make 
regulations with regard both to the labelling of these articles and to the 
amount of milk-fat and milk-solids they must contain. Regulations 
for this purpose were made accordingly in 1923 (amended in 1927). 

(f) Public Health {Meat) Regulations, 1924. 

These Regulations contain requirements as to notices to be given to 
the local authority when animals are to be slaughtered for human 
consumption (so as to facilitate the work of meat inspection), and 
relating to other matters in connection with slaughtering. They provide 
also for a voluntary scheme of meat marketing, by the local authority's 



— i6g — 

officers, and they contain detailed provisions for cleanliness and 
avoidance of contamination of meat in shops and stalls, and in the 
transport and handling of meat. 

(g) Public Health {Imported Food) Regulations, 1925, and Amending 

Regulations, 1933. 

These Regulations make all imported foods subject to examination 
at the port of entry, and to seizure and condemnation if found to be 
unfit for human consumption. Further, it is an offence to import for 
sale for human consumption any article of food which has been examined 
by a " competent authority " and not found at the time of examination 
to be fit for human consumption. The Regulations also contain special 
provisions relating to imported meat (derived from cattle, sheep, swine 
or goats). The importation of certain kinds of meat is unconditionally 
prohibited and the importation of other specified kinds of meat is 
prohibited unless accompanied by an official certificate of the country 
of origin which has been recognised by the Minister as affording 
satisfactory evidence that the meat has been derived from an animal 
which was free from disease at the time of slaughter, and that it has 
been dressed or prepared and packed with all necessary precautions 
for the prevention of danger to public health. 

(h) Shell-fish. 

Contamined shell-fish beds have been in several places brought under 
control either by orders made by sanitary authorities under the Public 
Health (Shell-fish) Regulations, 191 5 (now replaced by the Public 
Health (Shell-fish) Regulations, 1934), o^ by special series of regulations 
applying to particular fisheries, made by the Minister of Health under 
the Act of 1907. 

The general effect of the orders is that no shell-fish from the area 
concerned may be distributed for sale for human consumption unless 
they have been relaid in clean salt water for a specified time. The effect 
of the regulations is similar ; they prohibit the sale of the shell-fish 
for human consumption unless they have been subjected to an approved 
process of sterilisation (heat treatment) or cleansing. Local authorities 
have power under an Act of 1932 to provide apparatus for cleansing 
shell-fish. 

Milk Standards. 

Milk and Dairies Acts, etc. 

Special provisions relating mainly to the cleanliness and safety of 
milk are contained in the Milk and Dairies (Consolidation) Act, 1915, 
the Milk and Dairies (Amendment) Act, 1922, and the Milk and Dairies 
Order, 1926. Their general object is to secure cleanliness in milk 
production and its freedom from disease, both bovine and human. 
Reference may be made more particularly to the following : 



— lyo — 

So far as the health and inspection of cattle are concerned, the 
administration of the Acts and Order rests with county and county- 
borough councils ; in other matters with the local sanitary authorities. 

The medical officer of health of a county or county borough may 
have the cows on any farm or dairy in the area examined by a veterinary 
surgeon if he suspects that tuberculosis is likely to be caused by the 
consumption of their milk, and he must do this if he receives a notice 
from the medical officer of health of another area in which the milk 
is consumed that tuberculosis is likely to be caused by such milk. 
Local authorities have power to stop the supply of milk if they have 
sufficient evidence that it is likely to cause tuberculosis. 

It is also an offence to sell the milk of a cow which has given tuberculous 
milk or is suffering from certain forms of tuberculosis or from other 
specified diseases, if the vendor has received notice from an officer of a 
local authority or could, by the exercise of ordinary care, have known 
that the cow had given tuberculous milk or was suffering from 
tuberculosis. 

Power is given to the appropriate local authorities to make routine 
veterinary examinations of all dairy cattle in their districts, and such 
examinations must be carried out by qualified veterinary surgeons. 

A medical officer of health of a local sanitary authority has power 
to stop the supply of milk from a dairy, where he has evidence of 
infectious disease being attributable to the milk from that dairy. Further, 
if a medical officer of health suspects that any persons having access 
to milk or milk vessels are suffering from an infectious disease, or have 
recently been in contact with anyone so suffering, he may examine 
them and, if necessary, forbid them, for a specified period, to take 
any part in the production, etc., of milk. 

The Public Health (Prevention of Tuberculosis) Regulations, 1925, 
contain provisions for preventing any person who suffers from 
tuberculosis of the respiratory tract from being engaged in connection 
with a dairy, in employment which involves the milking of cows or the 
handling of milk vessels ; and the Public Health (Infectious Diseases) 
Regulations, 1927, contain provisions for preventing the employment 
of carriers of enteric fever or dysentery infection in any trade concerned 
with the preparation or handling of food or drink for human 
consumption. 

All persons carrying on the trade of cowkeeper or dairyman, and all 
farms and dairies, must be registered with the local sanitary authority, 
and the authority may refuse or revoke the registration of retail 
purveyors of milk if satisfied that danger to public health is involved. 

The Milk and Dairies Order, 1926, contains detailed provisions for 
securing cleanliness in premises and methods, including requirements 
respecting the adequate ventilation and water supply of dairies and 
cowsheds, and provisions for the protection of milk vessels from 
contamination and the use of clean clothing by milkers and distributors. 
Other provisions relate to the construction of the floors of cowsheds 



— lyi — 

and to their cleansing and lime-washing, and requirements are laid 
down for preventing the contamination of milk in transit. 

Under the Milk (Special Designations) Order, 1923, ^ a system has been 
set up by which licences are granted for the production and sale of milk 
under special designations. The special designations of milk at present 
are as follows : 



Certified Milk. — Raw milk from cows which have passed a 
veterinary examination and a tuberculin test ; it must be bottled 
on the farm, and not contain more than 30,000 bacteria per c.c. or 
any coliform bacillus in i/io c.c. 

Grade A [Tuberculin Tested) Milk. — Raw milk from cows which 
have passed a veterinary examination and a tuberculin test ; it may 
be bottled either on the farm or elsewhere. It must not contain more 
than 200,000 bacteria per c.c. or any coliform bacillus in i/ioo c.c. 

Grade A Milk. — Milk from cows which have passed a veterinary 
examination ; it may be bottled either on the farm or elsewhere. 
The milk may be raw or pasteurised ; if raw, it must conform with 
the bacteriological standard for Grade A (Tuberculin Tested) Milk ; 
if pasteurised, with that for Certified Milk. 

Pasteurised Milk. — Milk which has been heated and retained at 
a temperature of 145° to 150'^ F. for at least thirty minutes and does 
not contain more than 100,000 bacteria per c.c. 

It is vinlawful to use any of these designations or any similar 
designation for milk unless the appropriate licence has been obtained. 

Licences for the sale of milk under the special designations are at 
present granted by the Minister of Health to producers of Certified 
and Grade A (Tuberculin Tested) Milk ; by county council and county 
borough councils, and in a fe-w special instances by local sanitary 
authorities, to producers of Grade A milk ; and by local sanitary 
authorities to pasteurising establishments and for graded milk sold 
from premises other than the place of production. 



1 Under the Milk (Special Designations) Order, 1936, operating as from June ist, 1936, the designations 
" Certified " and " Grade A (Tuberculin Tested) " are replaced by the one designation " Tuberculin Tested " 
and the designation "Grade A" is replaced by the designation "Accredited". The designation 
" Pasteurised " is retained. 

The conditions applicable to the production and sale of Tuberculin Tested milk are substantially the same 
as those for Grade A (Tuberculin Tested) milk ; it is, however, permissible to pasteurise Tuberculin Tested 
milk and sell it as " Tuberculin Tested Milk (Pasteurised) ". The conditions for Accredited milk are similar 
to those for Grade A milk, but, if pasteurised, the milk must be sold simply as ' ' Pasteurised " milk. 

The Minister of Health ceases to be a licensing authority and his functions in this respect are transferred 
to local authorities. 



— 172 — 

In Scotland, under the Milk (Special Designations) Order (Scotland), 
1930,^ a system which has been placed under the administration of local 
authorities has been set up for the granting of licences for the production 
of " Certified ", " Grade A (Tuberculin Tested) ", " Grade A " and 
" Pasteurised " milk. It is illegal to use any of these special designations 
or any similar designation for milk unless the appropriate licence has 
been obtained. 

Certified Milk is raw milk produced from cows which have passed 
the double intradermal test for tuberculosis twice yearly and a clinical 
veterinary examination three times a year. The milk is bottled on the 
farm, must contain a minimum of 3.5% of butter-fat, and not more 
than 30,000 bacteria per c.c. or any coliform bacillus in i/io c.c. at any 
time before delivery to the consumer. 

Grade A {Tuberculin Tested) Milk is raw milk produced from cows 
under similar conditions to certified milk, but it may be bottled on the 
farm or elsewhere. It must contain a minimum of 3.5% butter-fat 
and not more than 200,000 bacteria per c.c. or any coliform bacillus 
in i/ioo c.c. at any time before delivery to the consumer. 

Grade A Milk is raw milk from cows which have passed a clinical 
veterinary examination not less than three times a year. It may be 
bottled either on the farm or elsewhere, may be sold raw or pasteurised, 
and must contain a minimum of 3.5% butter-fat. If sold raw, it must 
conform to the bacteriological standard for Grade A (Tuberculin Tested) 
Milk ; if sold pasteurised, with the bacteriological standard for Certified 
Milk. 

Pasteurised Milk is milk which has been heated and retained at a 
temperature of 145° to 150° F. for at least thirty minutes and does not 
contain more than 100,000 bacteria per c.c. 

Bulgaria. 

In Bulgaria, the Public Health Directorate, with the assistance of 
the veterinary authorities, exercises very strict supervision over the 
production of and trade in foodstuffs, so that the possibility of bad 
or adulterated products being sold is reduced to a minimum. 



^ Under the Milk (Special Designations) Order (Scotland), 1936, operating as from October ist, 1936' 
the designation " Grade A (Tuberculin Tested) " will be replaced by the designation " Tuberculin Tested "> 
and the designation "Grade A" will be replaced by the designation "Standard". The designation 
" Pasteurised " will be retained. 

The conditions applicable to the production and sale of Tuberculin Tested milk will be substantially 
the same as those for Grade A (Tuberculin Tested) milk ; it will, however, be permissible to pasteurise 
Tuberculin Tested milk and sell it as " Tuberculin Tested (Pasteurised) ". The conditions for " Standard " 
milk will be similar to those for Grade A milk, but, if pasteurised, the milk must be sold simply 
as " Pasteurised " milk. 



— 173 — 

Denmark. 

Denmark possesses a highly developed system of inspection of animal 
foodstuffs, especially dairy produce and meat products, as part of an 
effective campaign against animal diseases — in particular, bovine 
tuberculosis. 

France. 

The National Nutrition Committee ^ has collected information regarding 
the regulation and organisation of the supervision of foodstuffs. This 
information is intended to throw light on the means at the disposal of 
the public authorities for supervising the quality of the foodstuffs 
supplied to the general public and to persons belonging to various units 
(army, navy, educational establishments, charitable or public assistance 
institutions ; hospitals, homes, asylums, sanatoria, etc.). 

It has also studied what steps might be taken to render this supervision 
more effective. 

The National Nutrition Committee has likewise considered what means 
could be employed, within the framework of the present organisation, 
by the public authorities or certain bodies to improve nutrition, both in 
quantity and in quality, and to give effect to the guiding principles laid 
down by the scientific committees. 

Laws and Regulations. 

Regulations relating to the Fitness of Food for Human Consumption. 

(a) Governing Foodstuffs in general. 

The supervision of foods with regard to fitness for consumption 
is based on the Law of April 5th, 1884, on Municipal Organisation, 
Article 97 of which provides that : 

" The object of municipal administration is to ensure order, security 
and public health. It comprises, in particular . . . the inspection 
of goods sold by weight or measure to ensure that the correct quantity 
is supplied and of foodstuffs offered for sale to ensure that they are 
fit for human consumption." 

Moreover, under Article 99 : 

" The powers vested in the mayor shall not debar the prefect from 
taking, in respect of all communes in the department, or certain of them 
whenever no action has been taken by the municipal authorities, such 
steps as may be necessary to maintain public health, security and 
order. 

" This right may only be exercised by the prefect in respect of a 
single commune after the mayor has been ordered to take action and 
has failed to do so." 



1 For the French National Nutrition Committee, see page 218. 



— 174 — 

These provisions have been reproduced in the Law on Public Health 
(February 15th, 1902, Article 2) and in the Law of August 5th, 1908. 

Moreover, as regards the supervision of foodstuffs at Paris, the Law 
of April qih, igoj, amending the Law of February 15th, 1902, stipulates 
that the Prefect of Police at Paris shall " continue to . . . ensure the 
application of the laws and regulations regarding the sale and offering 
for sale of foodstuffs which have been adulterated or are tainted ". 



(b) Governing Certain Foodstuffs in particular. 

I. The first regulations in regard to the fitness of meat for human 
consumption are several centuries old. The main texts are as follows : 

Old Laws : 

Edict of January 30th, 1350. 

Edict of December 19th, 1403. 

Letters Patent of Henri II (February 1587). 

Parliamentary Decree of March 28th, 1589. 

Parliamentary Decree of February 23rd, 1602. 

Letters Patent of June ist, 1782. 

Letters Patent of August 26th, 1783. 

Order of September 2nd, 1806. 

Ordinance of March 25th, 1830. 

Law of March 27th, 1851. 

Law of July 21st, 1881. 

Present Laws : 

Under the Law of June list, i8g8, communes were for the first time 
required to organise a service for the supervision of slaughter-houses, 
cattle-markets and knackers' yards. Although the sole object of these 
provisions was to prevent epizootic diseases, they have actually served 
as a basis for the establishment of meat inspection services in a large 
number of places. 

The same law prohibits the offering for sale of meat obtained from 
animals suffering from cattle plague, glanders, anthrax, swine erysipelas 
and rabies (Articles 43 and 44). 

The Decree of October 6th, ig04, lays down the conditions under which 
meat obtained from animals suffering from contagious pleuro-pneumonia 
of cattle (Article 32), tuberculosis (Article 47) and anthrax (Article 78) 
may be sold. 

Article 477 of the Penal Code provides that damaged, tainted and 
harmful foodstuffs shall be confiscated and destroyed. 

[The Law of August 1st, igo^, on the Punishment of Fraud applies 
to meat and meat products ; these two last-named texts are, however, 
general and relate to all classes of sales.) 



— 175 — 

The Law of January 8th, igo^, provided the communes with the means 
of organising the supervision of the wholesomeness of meat and the 
upkeep of public slaughter-houses, for which purpose taxes were 
introduced. These were amended by the Law of January 8th, 1921, and 
are as follows : 

Meat prepared in a municipal slaughter-house, 0.05 franc per kg. 
net ; 

Meat prepared in a private slaughter-house, 0.03 franc per kg. net ; 
Meat coming from elsewhere, 0.03 franc per kg. net. 

The circular of July 5th, 1908, emphasised the necessity for oganising 
this supervision and requested the mayors to organise it in accordance 
with the provisions of the above-mentioned law. 

The Decree of Augtist 24th, igo8, deals with various details regarding 
the use of public slaughterhouses, and in the circulars of December ist, 
1908, and April 15th, 1910, the necessary instructions were given for 
the application of the Law of January 8th, 1905, and the Decree of 
August 24th, 1908. 

The Decree of July i8th, igij, provides the municipalities with the 
means of collecting the legal taxes by a simple method in places which 
have no scales — namely, the tax per head of slaughtered animals based 
on a scale included in the text of the Decree. 

The circulars of June 27th, 1914, July 9th, 1917, and May ist, 1923, 
contain further instructions for the organisation and exercise of 
supervision. 

Under the Law of July "jth, igjj, the work of organisation, begun under 
previous laws, was continued, and meat inspection was made 
compulsory. For this purpose : 

[a) The display, circulation, sale and direct or indirect use for 
human consumption of fresh and frozen meat not bearing the stamp 
testifying to its wholesomeness were prohibited (Article 12) ; 

{b) The inspection of industrial slaughter-houses was entrusted 
to agents appointed by the Minister of Agriculture ; 

(c) The prefects were required to take upon themselves the duties 
of the mayors and to inspect the meat in communes which have not 
considered it necessary to set up an inspection service ; 

{(i) Meat offered for sale without the necessary stamp was to be 
confiscated and sold for the benefit of the commune or the State. 

The Decree of September 2gth, igj^, lays down the conditions under 
which the law is to be applied and summarises these as follows : 

" No matter where the animal is slaughtered, no portion of the meat, 
offal and by-products may be exempted from inspection from the 
point of view of its fitness for human consumption." 



- 176 — 

It is now the duty of the public authorities effectively to ensure the 
general inspection of meat offered for sale and they have the means of 
doing so. 

2. Purity of Milk. — The regulations relating to the purity of milk 
date back to the Decree of March 25th, 1924, the main provisions of 
which are reproduced below : 

" A. The following may not be regarded as suitable for human 
consumption : 

" (i) Milk obtained from animals suffering from diseases, a list 
of which will be issued by Decree of the Minister of Agriculture after 
consulting the Advisory Committee on Epizootic Diseases ; 

" (2) Coloured, dirty or malodorous milk ; 

" (3) Milk obtained from an animal within one week after 
calving, and, in general, milk containing colostrum ; 

" (4) Milk obtained from ill-nourished animals which are 
obviously exhausted (Article 2). 

" B. Under Article i of the Law of August ist, 1905, the possession 
without any legitimate reason, the display, offering for sale or sale 
for human consumption of milk which is unfit for this purpose, or 
milk obtained by mixing milk fit for consumption with milk which 
is unfit for that purpose (Article 3), are regarded as attempts to 
defraud the public. 

" Article i of the Law of August ist, 1905, also prohibits 
the possession without any legitimate reason, display, offering for 
sale or sale : 

" Under the designation of pasteurised milk, of milk from which 
all pathogenic microbes have not been removed by a method 
approved by the Supreme Council of Public Health of France 

" Under the designation of ' sterilised milk ', of milk containing 
live germs." 

In application of Article 2 of the Decree of March 25th, 1924, the 
Committee on Epizootic Diseases, after a lengthy and careful 
examination, proposed that the following provisions should be adopted : 

" (i) Milk obtained from animals suffering from one of the following 
diseases may not be regarded as fit for human consumption : 

" Tuberculosis, 

" Undulant fever, 

" Anthrax, 

" Symptomatic anthrax, 

" Gas gangrene, 

" Cattle plague, 

" Pleuro-pneumonia, 



— 177 — 

" Rabies, 

" Cow-pox, 

" Foot-and-mouth disease, 

" Cachexia, 

" Fever, 

" A marked disorder of the lacteal secretion, 

" Mammitis, 

" Metritis, 

" Enteritis, 

" Poisoning, 

" Pulp disease, 

" Draff disease, 

" Abscesses and furunculosis of the udder or teats. 

" (2) In the case of undulant fever, anthrax, symptomatic anthrax 
gas gangrene, cattle plague, pleuro-pneumonia, rabies, fever, cachexia, 
a marked disorder of the lacteal secretion, mammitis, poisoning, pulp 
disease, draff disease, abscesses and furunculosis of the udder or 
teats, the milk may not be used for human consumption under any 
pretext and in any form whatsoever. 

" In the case of tuberculosis, cow-pox, foot-and-mouth disease, 
metritis and enteritis, the milk, if it is perfectly normal in appearance, 
may be used for consumption after pasteurisation or sterilisation and 
subject to the reservations laid down in the last two paragraphs of 
Article 3 of the Decree of March 25th, 1924." 

This text has been submitted for examination to the Supreme Council 
of Public Health of France. 

The Law of July 2nd, ig35, for the organisation and improvement of 
milk markets makes a further contribution towards the supervision of 
the purity of milk. Its chief provisions are given below : 

(i) Milk for consumption or the manufacture of a milk product 
may only be offered for sale if it has been obtained from milch animals 
that are perfectly healthy. 

(2) The Government shall grant a special stamp to producers who 
voluntarily accept official veterinary and medical inspection (Article 4). 

(3) Milk sold raw must be sold direct by the producer to the 
consumer, subject to the reservations and conditions laid down in 
Article 5. 

(4) Milk which does not comply with the provisions of Articles 
4 and 5 of the Law may only be sold for human consumption if it has 
been properly pasteurised. 

(5) Departmental milk committees may be set up by decree of the 
Minister of Agriculture at the request of the departmental committees 
concerned ; the functions of these committees are laid down in the 
circular of September 14th, 1935. 



- 178 - 

The body of provisions referred to above represents a decided advance, 
and an important step forward towards the compulsory supervision of 
the health of milch animals. 

3. Purity of Drinking-water. — Article i of the Law of February 
15th, 1902, provides that : 

" In every commune, the maj'^or is required, in order to protect 
public health, to draw up, after consulting the municipal council, 
and in the form of municipal decrees embodying health regulations : 

"... provisions relating to the supply of drinking-water." 

Article 10 deals with the protection of springs, wells and conduits 
conveying drinking-water from an underground sheet of water, and lays 
down conditions for the establishment of a protective zone. 

Article 21 provides that " the Departmental Health Councils and the 
Health Commissions must be consulted regarding . . . the supply of 
drinking-water to built-up areas ". 

Under Article 22 (amended by the Law of April 7th, 1903), the Prefect 
of the Seine is responsible for the catchment and distribution of the water. 

In accordance with Article 24, the Prefect of the Seine is to be assisted 
in carrying out these functions by the Seine Public Health Council. 

Article 25 provides that the Supreme Public Health Council shall deal 
with all questions affecting public health. It must in every case be 
consulted regarding public works for the supply of water to towns of 
over five thousand inhabitants. It is specially responsible for supervising 
the water supply of towns when the catchment area of such water lies 
outside the limits of their respective departments. 

Lastly, Article 28 enumerates the penalties inflicted on persons who : 

" As a result of neglect or carelessness, defile public or communal 
works for the catchment or conveyance of drinking-water ; any 
person who, as a result of neglect or carelessness, allows excrement 
or any other substance harmful to health to enter spring-water, 
fountains, wells, tanks, pipes, aqueducts or public reservoirs shall 
be punished by the penalties laid down in Articles 479 and 480 of 
the Criminal Code." 

In accordance with this article : 

" Persons leaving the carcasses of animals, butchers' offal, manure, 
foecal substances and animal residue in general which is liable to 
putref}^ in clefts, pits, swallets or hollows of any kind, other than the 
pits required by recognised establishments, shall be liable to the same 
penalties. 

" Persons voluntarily committing any similar act shall be liable 
to the penalties laid down in Article 257 of the Penal Code." 

4. Fitness of Oysters and Shell- fish for Hiinian Consumption. — The 
conditions under which the fitness of oysters for human consumption 
is ensured are laid down in a Decree of July ^ist, 1923. 



— 179 — 

At the time of transport, supervision is exercised in accordance with 
the following provisions : 

" Proof that the oysters have been obtained from healthy beds must 
be furnished to the agents responsible for supervision, at their request. 
For the purposes of this supervision, special documents must be 
attached to each package." 

Consignments of oysters to be put back into the beds are subject to the 
same formalities. 

The supervision of the sale of oysters intended for consumption is 
exercised in accordance with the existing laws and regulations already 
mentioned in the present report : 

Law of April 5th, 1884, on Municipal Organisation ; 
Law of August ist, 1905, on the Detection and Punishment of 
Fraud. 



In addition, any handling of the oysters liable to render them 
unwholesome is prohibited, and, in particular : 

(i) Watering or washing the oysters, for the purpose of cleaning 
the shells, with polluted seawater, such a harbour water or fresh water 
not fit for drinking, such as the water of rivers, canals or streams into 
which refuse or waste water flows, or drinking-water with the addition 
of salt (tainted kitchen salt, such as salt which has been used for the 
transport or preservation of fish or any other commodity) ; 

(2) The cooling or preservation of oysters with ice unfit for 
consumption ; 

(3) The storage of oysters in boxes, bags or baskets submerged 
along quays or in places liable to contamination ; 

(4) The opening of oysters with dirty tools or appliances ; 

(5) The washing of open oysters ; 

(6) The preservation in dirty water of oysters removed from their 
shells. 

Consequently, oysters treated by any of the methods described above 
must be seized and destroyed as dangerous to public health. 

Mention must be made here of the essential provisions of this Decree, 
which provides for the supervision of the production, transport, sale 
or importation of fiat oysters. 

As regards production, " only establishments owning oyster-beds 
recognised as healthy maj^ despatch oysters for consumption or sell 
them direct ". 



— i8o — 

The list of these establishments is drawn up by the Minister in charge 
of the Merchant Marine after an enquiry by the Scientific and Technical 
Office for Maritime Fisheries. This list may be modified at any time. 

The Fisheries Office is responsible for carrying out periodical 
inspections for the purpose of ascertaining that the establishments on 
the list in question comply with health requirements. 

Moreover, by Decree-Law of October 2,0th, igj^, adopted on the motion 
of the Minister for Public Health, relating to the protection of drinking- 
water and oyster-beds, the provisions of the Decree of July 31st, 1923, 
were extended to cover natural beds and shell-fish establishments. 

It also makes the establishment of a protective zone around all these 
establishments compulsory. 

The conditions of application of this Decree will be specified in the 
Public Administration Regulations now in course of preparation. 

Regulations for the Detection and Punishtnent of Fraud. 

The supervision of foodstuffs is based on the Law of August ist, 1905. 

Not only does this law provide for the punishment of any fraud 
regarding the nature, origin and quantity of the goods sold, but it also 
provides severe penalties for any adulteration of commodities used for 
the consumption of men or animals. 

Penalties of imprisonment (varying from one month to one year) 
and a fine (from 100 to 5,000 francs) may also be imposed on any persons : 

(a) Who display, offer for sale or sell foodstuffs which they know 
to be adulterated, tainted or poisonous ; 

(b) Display, offer for sale or sell, with a knowledge of the 
purpose for which they are intended, products employed for the 
adulteration of commodities intended for human consumption. 

Moreover, if the adulterated or tainted substance is harmful to the 
health of human beings or animals, the penalty will be imprisonment 
(three months to two years) and the fine imposed from 500 to 10,000 
francs. 

(c) Persons who are merely in possession of commodities intended 
for human or animal consumption " which they know to be adulterated 
tained, or poisonous ". 

This law is thus of primary importance from the point of view of the 
protection of public health. The conditions under which it was to be 
applied to various foodstuffs were laid down in a series of later texts. 

These dealt with : 

Fats and oils ; 

Various beverages (cider and perry, liquors and syrups, beer, 
hydromel) ; 
Vinegar ; 
Sugar, confectionery, chocolate ; 



— I8l — 

Pork-butcher's wares, fruit, vegetables, fish and preserves ; 

Wines and spirits ; 

Dairy produce ; 

Butter and margarine, etc. 

Organisation of Supervision. 

Supervision in respect of Fitness for Consumption. 

The municipal authorities are responsible for satisfying themselves 
as to the fitness of foodstuffs for human consumption. Various 
administrative authorities are entrusted with the application of the 
regulations relating to this supervision. These are, as the case may be : 

[a) The Ministry of Public Health, in respect of all foodstuffs in 
general and drinking-water in particular ; 

{b) The Ministry of Agriculture (veterinary services) in respect 
of foodstuffs of animal origin — meat, milk ; 

(c) The Ministry of Merchant Marine (Maritime Fisheries Office) 
in respect of oysters and shell-fish. 

Functions of the Ministry of Public Health. 

In accordance with the legislation referred to above, ^ the municipal 
authorities are responsible for supervising, in respect of their fitness 
for consumption, foodstuffs offered for sale and drinking-water in 
particular. Provisions relating to this supervision must be included in 
the municipal health regulations promulgated in each commune by 
municipal decree, in application of Article i of the Law of February 
15th, 1902. (These regulations have, however, been given a departmental 
character by Decree-Law of October 30th, 1935 — that is to say, in future 
they will be promulgated by the prefect and will apply to all the 
communes in the department.) 

Article ig of the Law of February 15th, igo2, also provides that : 

" In towns of 20,000 or more inhabitants and in communes of not 
less than 2,000 inhabitants, where there is a hydropathic establishment, 
a municipal service responsible, under the authority of the mayor, 
for the application of the provisions of the present law shall be set 
up under the name of the Health Office." 

The mayors discharge their functions in regard to health under the 
supervision of the prefectural administration. In this connection, the 
same law provides (Article 19) that : 

" If the prefect, with a view to giving effect to the present law, 
considers that a supervisory and inspection service should be organised, 
this may only be done by decision of the general council regulating the 
details and budget of the service." 



' Law of April 5th, 1884 ; Law of February 15th, 1902. 



— l82 — 

The setting up of a service of this kind has just been made compul- 
sory in each department by Decree-Law of October 30th, 1935. 

The Ministry of Public Health (Department of Hygiene and Assistance) 
supervises the application of all health measures relating to the fitness 
of foodstuffs for human consumption under the health regulations 
(Fifth Bureau) or regulations for the prevention of epidemic diseases 
due to impure food (Sixth Bureau). 

This administration appoints and arranges for the supervision of 
approved laboratories for the analysis of drinking-water. 

In exercising these various functions, the Central Administration of 
Public Health consults the Supreme Council of Public Health, which is 
responsible, in particular : 

For studying the health regulations ; 

For giving advice as to the choice of approved laboratories for the 
analysis of drinking-water and for their supervision ; 

For advising upon public sanitation works or works for the supply 
of water to towns of over 5,000 inhabitants ; 

For studying any questions referred to it by the Minister. 

We would mention that the Minister has the right to submit to the 
Academy of Medicine questions relating to foodstuffs in the same way 
as any questions affecting the protection of public health in general. 

Result of the Supervision exercised under the Authority of the Minister 
for Ptiblic Health. 

(a) Supervision of Foodstuffs in general. — This supervision is 
exercised more or less strictly according to the means at the disposal 
of the municipal administrations. While it is very thorough in towns of 
over 20,000 inhabitants which possess a special health organisation, it 
is necessarily more rudimentary in smaller towns and in small communes 
which are obliged to apply to the special departmental services 
(departmental health inspectorates). 

The recent measures promulgated (substitution of departmental 
health regulations for municipal regulations, compulsory establishment 
in each department of an inspection and supervisory service) will give 
the prefectural administrations greater authority and more extensive 
means of action, and will enable the supervision of foodstuffs to be 
made closer. 

(b) Supervision of Drinking-water . — The supervision exercised 
in France is very strict. Pollution by feed water is exceptional. On the 
other hand, pollution by water stated by the health authorities to be 
unfit for drinking is still too frequent. These accidents are attributable, 
not to inadequate supervision, but to the fact that a water-supply 
complying with all the conditions desirable from the point of view of 



- iS3 - 

health is not available everywhere. It is for this reason that, 
notwithstanding budgetary difficulties, considerable efforts are being 
made to increase the supply of drinking-water. 

Functions of the Ministry of A griculture : Veterinary Services. 

(a) Organisation of Meat-inspection Services. — The vast majority 
of municipalities introduced supervision in regard to the fitness for human 
consumption of meat prepared in their locality or brought into it (Law 
of April 5th, 1884), without waiting for the compulsory provisions of 
the Law of July 7th, 1933. 

In the towns, permanent inspection is ensured by one or more 
veterinary officials attached to the service. 

In Paris, in particular, a service consisting of fifty-two veterinary 
officials ensures the regular supervision of all establishments engaged 
in the meat industry or trade. 

In smaller places, both public and private slaughter-houses are under 
the supervision of veterinary surgeons, assisted by local officials. 

These services, which were organised under the Laws of April 5th 
1884 (Article 97), June 21st, 1898 (Article 63), January 8th, 1905, and 
January 8th, 1921, are placed under the supervision of the Departmental 
Director of Veterinary Services, who " proposes to the prefect such 
measures as are necessary to ensure the application of the laws and 
regulations relating to the fitness for human consumption of foodstuffs 
of animal origin and the suppression of fraud " (Decree of May 3rd, 
1923, Article 5). 

All these services are under Government supervision. 

'' The directors of the veterinary services and veterinary officials, 
veterinary inspectors of fairs and markets, slaughter-houses and 
knackers' yards are placed under the authority of the inspectors- 
general of the veterinary services (Article 11 of the above-mentioned 
Decree), who are themselves under the Chief of the Veterinary Service 
at the Ministry of Agriculture." 

The inspection services have been instrumental in obtaining the 
withdrawal from consumption of large quantities of meat, as shown by 
the figures in the reports regularly submitted by the chiefs of the 
departmental services. 

For the Seine Department alone, the Slaughter-house Inspection 
Service effected, in 1934, 113,000 seizures, covering 2,230,000 
kilogrammes of meat. 

(b) Supervision of Milk. — This supervision devolves, according 
to their respective functions and powers, upon the officials of the service 
for the suppression of fraud, the public health and veterinary services, 
who are responsible for the application of the regulations referred to 
above. 



— i84 — 

In addition to these various forms of supervision, certain municipalities 
have taken steps to provide the population as a whole or a certain part of 
it with milk of good quality. 

For instance, the city of Bordeaux, in conjunction with the Girondist 
Federation of Child Welfare Associations, has succeeded in producing 
pure raw milk for babies. The cost price of this milk is rather high, and 
the town is therefore obliged to sell it at a loss to families unable to pay 
the full price. This example deserves to be followed. 

Nancy has also organised a system of supervision for the purpose of 
providing the public with clean milk, and this has been willinglj^ accepted 
b}^ producers and sellers. 

Similarly, Versailles has introduced the supervision of milk in shops, 
and has supplemented this by inspection during transport. 

Lyons and St. Etienne each have a model dairy, over which strict 
supervision is exercised, and which supplies institutions, municipal 
da}- nurseries and private child welfare organisations. 

We would also mention that certain municipalities (Strasburg, for 
instance) run municipal dairies. Strict supervision is exercised to ensure 
that the milk distributed by those dairies is pure. 

Lasth', it should be noted that the big milk companies carefully check 
the quantities of milk offered for sale, both before and after pasteurisation 
at their collecting centres. Special supervision of byres and of the 
conditions under which the milk is collected have also been instituted 
by them. 

Inspection of Covered and Open Markets. — In all the large towns the 
municipalities have organised, in accordance with the Laws of April 
5th, 1884, and February 15th, 1902, inspection services of covered and 
open markets. These services are responsible, in particular, for the 
supervision of certain foodstuffs (for instance, eggs and mushrooms). 

Functions of the Ministry of Merchant Marine [Maritime Fisheries 
Office). 

A special service of this ofhce is responsible for supervising the 
wholesomeness of oysters and shellfish, in accordance with the provisions 
of the Decrees of July 31st, 1923, and October 30th, 1935, to which we 
have already referred. 

For this purpose, regional inspection services, placed under the 
supervision of an inspector-general for the hygienic supervision of 
oysters and shellfish, have been organised all along the coast. 

Eight areas have been established. 

These services include inspectors, deputj' inspectors, supervisors and 
laboratories. 

Analyses are also made in Paris, at the Central Laboratory of the 
Fisheries Office. 

Results. — This service has been strengthened year by year, and 
the creation of new posts of inspectors is now proposed. The results of 



- i85 ~ 

this supervision can already be regarded as satisfactory, at all events 
so far as oysters are concerned. 

The provisions of the Decree-Law of October 30th, 1935, mentioned 
above, will enable strict supervision to be exercised over shellfish from 
the point of view of their wholesomeness. 

Detection and Punishment of Fraud : Functions of the Ministry of 

A griculture . 

Service for the Detection and Punishment of Fraud in France. 

The Service for the Detection and Punishment of Fraud was set up 
by Decree of April 24th, 1907, with a view to the application of the Law 
of August 1st, 1905, on the suppression of fraudulent practices in the 
sale of commodities, and particularly the adulteration of foodstuffs, 
beverages, agricultural produce and medicaments. 

A corps of inspectors for the detection and punishment of fraud 
(attached to the Chief of the Service) was accordingly established by 
Decree of October 21st, 1907. This corps makes expert enquiries and 
serves as a link between the Central Administration and the prefectural 
services for the suppression of fraud. 

Another Decree of January 17th, 1908, set up a Central Laboratory 
for the Detection and Punishment of Fraud at Paris, mainly for the 
purpose of carr5dng out scientific researches in connection with the 
detection of fraud, giving directions to local laboratories where the latter 
apply to it for advice, and, lastly, of analysing one portion of the samples 
taken in the Parisian area, the other portion being analysed by the 
Laboratory of the City of Paris, which has been approved for that 
purpose. 

The number of approved laboratories and agents in connection with 
the service has since been increased. 

The functions of the laboratories are local, inasmuch as they are 
responsible for the analysis of samples taken in the departments or 
" arrondissements " under their supervision ; but there are certain 
special laboratories which handle samples from the whole of France. 
Samples of preserves, for example, wherever taken, are all sent to the 
Preserves Laboratory of the Ministry of War. Similarly, seed samples 
are all sent to Paris to the Seed-testing Institute, and samples of 
resinous products to the Laboratory for the Analysis of Resinous 
Products at Bordeaux. 

Article 11 of the Law of August ist, 1905, on the detection and 
punishment of fraudulent practices in the sale of commodities and food- 
stuffs and agricultural products provides that public administration 
regulations shall be promulgated regarding the measures to be taken 
to give effect to that law, particularly as regards : 

(i) The sale, offering for sale, displaying and possession of the 
foodstuffs, beverages, substances and products to which the law 
applies ; 



— iSo — 

(2) Marks and inscriptions, indicating either the composition or 
the origin of the goods or regional appellations and special vintages, 
which buyers may require to be entered on the invoices, packings, or 
on the products themselves, as a guarantee on the part of the sellers, 
and also the outside or visible indications required to ensure that the 
description under which the goods are sold or offered for sale is correct ; 

(3) The formalities for the taking of samples and the analysis of 
suspect goods by the approved laboratory and a laboratory selected 
by the seller ; 

{4) The selection of the methods of analysis for the purpose of 
establishing the composition, constituents and content in valuable 
principles of the products, or detecting their adulteration ; 

{5) The authorities competent to take steps to discover and 
establish infringements of the law, and their right to collect information 
from the various public administrations and transport agents. 

The drawing-up of these draft public administration regulations has 
been entrusted to two commissions, one dealing with beverages and the 
other with foodstuffs. 

Both commissions were appointed by agreement between the Minister 
of Agriculture and the Minister of Commerce and Industry, by Decrees 
of November 15th and December 12th, 1905. 

With a view to the application of the fourth paragraph of Article 11, 
a Permanent Technical Commission responsible for determining the 
analytical methods to be employed and specifying both their method of 
application and the manner in which their results are to be interpreted, 
was set up by Decree of December 15th, 1905. 

As the outcome of the work of these various commissions, which was 
itself based on the decisions and recommendations of the International 
Congresses for the Suppression of Fraud held at Geneva (September 
1908) and Paris (October 1909), a large number of regulations have been 
adopted giving effect to the Law of August ist, 1905, particularly as 
regards wine, sparkling wine, brandy, various beverages, sugar factories, 
confectionery, preserves, milk and milk products. 

The Service for the Detection and Punishment of Fraud is therefore 
responsible, not only for supervising the observance of these regulations, 
but also for supervising the execution of the provisions of special laws 
relating to butter, fertilisers, spirituous liquors and poisonous substances. 
It must endeavour to detect fraudulent practices and the adulteration 
of these products and also of medicinal products and mineral waters. 

Lastly, it must also supervise the application of the laws for the 
protection of appellations of origin, and, in particular, endeavour to 
detect fraud and falsification as regards the origin of the products. 

The Service for the Detection and Punishment of Fraud is also 
entrusted with the supervision of prices, and must see to the public 
posting up of the prices of foodstuffs, and of grain and flour coming on 
the market. 



- iS7 - 

Products offered for sale are inspected by means of the taking of 
samples and analyses. 

Every year, some 40,000 samples of foodstuffs, beverages and 
agricultural products are taken in the whole of France. Suspect samples 
are reported to the judicial authorities, and the courts are then called 
upon to inflict on the guilty parties the penalties by law provided. 

Since the establishment of the service, the situation has certainly 
improved considerably. The grosser forms of adulteration are becoming 
more and more rare ; but the progress of science has placed new weapons 
in the hands of the adulterators. Adulteration is now more scientific, 
and consequently more difficult to detect, particularly where the 
supervision cannot be exercised at the place of manufacture. 

International co-operation is therefore highly desirable for the purpose 
of combating adulteration more effectively. Such international action 
would imply the conclusion of a convention embodying more definite 
directions in connection with the specification of the composition 
of certain foodstuffs, and the definition of licit and illicit trade 
practices, together with the steps to be taken in the event of the 
detection of adulteration. 

Organisation of Certain Special Systems of Supervision. 

Dietetic Supervision in the Avmy {Home Troops). 

Appropriate steps are taken for the inspection of each article of food 
as it arrives, both by the supply services and by the various units. 

The general rules already mentioned are strictly applied in the army. 

Finally, information is given concerning the steps taken to ensure that 
foodstuffs shall contain the proper proportion of so-called protective 
sub.stances (minerals and vitamins). General instructions issued by the 
Ministry of War specify the proportion of these substances that the 
various articles of food should contain. The best average daily ration 
for the various units, living under ordinary conditions, is thus 
established. 

Dietetic Supervision in the Army {Colonial Troops). 

The general principles observed for inspection in the home army are 
also applied in the colonial army. Certain special points concern the 
diet of soldiers serving in the colonies. 

Dietetic Supervision in the Navy. 

A detailed memorandum on this subject is preceded by certain 
information on the sailors's diet : 

(a) On shore service or in surface vessels ; 

(6) In submarines. 



— i88 — 

It sets out the methods of inspecting the various foodstuffs destined 
for the various branches and draws attention to the severity and 
efficacy of this inspection. 

Dietetic Sitpervision in Hospitals and Hostels. 

Article 7 of the Organic Law of August 7th, 1851, leaves it to the 
Administrative Commission " to direct and supervise the internal and 
external services of hospitals and similar establishments ". 

Article 8 (4) specifies that the Commission " shall, subject to the 
approval of the Prefect, establish the rules governing both internal 
and external services and health . . ." 

One of the main aims of the internal rules is to regulate diet and food 
supplies. 

The model set of rules adopted by the Conseil Superieur de I'Assistance 
Publique and communicated to prefects in a circular, dated March 31st, 
1926, gives very precise indications on this subject. 

The steward and the doctor in charge of the case are responsible 
respectively for food supplies and the patient's diet. 

Under Article 10 of the model rules, the steward's duties are : 

(i) To purchase, store and preserve foodstuffs and furniture of 
every kind ; 

(2) To distribute these foodstuffs and articles. He shall carry out 
these duties under the supervision of the Managing Board. 

Furthermore, under Article 12, doctors and surgeons must record, 
in a special register, their prescriptions and the diet ordered for each 
patient. After each visit, they must sign this register. 

Chapter 10 of the rules is devoted to dietary questions. 

Questions of diet are decided, in the hospital or hostel by the Managing 
Board, " in agreement with the medical staff of the establishment ". 
No change may be made until the medical staff has been consulted, the 
opinion of such staff being expressly annexed to the " Board's decision 
transmitted to the Prefect for approval ". ^ 

The Ministerial Circular makes the following comments on this article, 
which indicate certain aspects of the patient's diet to which attention 
should be paid : 

" The circular of June 26th, 1924, drew your attention to the 
desirability of increasing the consumption of fish in public institu- 
tions. 

" The report of the Inspector-General for the year 1925 refers to the 
economy effected by one national assistance establishment as a result 



1 This decision must include a description, in the form of a table, of the dietary regime which the hospital 
administration has prepared, in the light of its own experience, within the framework of the theoretical table 
attached to the model rules. 



— i89 — 

of adopting frozen meat. The same document contains observations 
applicable to all hospitals, concerning benefits in kind accorded to 
the staff, particularly in the matter of foodstuffs." 

A plan of meals and diets is also given in the model rules. 
Article 52 is of special interest. It is worded as follows : 

" Every day the steward shall, in agreement with the supervisor 
of the kitchen, draw up the menu of the various meals for the following 
day. This menu must be submitted previously to the medical officer 
of the institute ; it shall then be posted up in the kitchen and a copy 
shall be kept in the stewards' office." 



Dietetic Supervision in Sanatoria. 

Article 21 of the Decree of August loth, 1920, concerning the creation, 
working and supervision of sanatoria, lays down that : 

" In public sanatoria, special regulations drawn up by the 
Supervisory Committee on the proposal of the chief medical officer 
in charge, after submission for approval to the representative of 
the body which maintains the establishment, shall provide for the 
organisation and working of the internal services . . . These rules 
shall make provision for all questions concerning . . . food supplies 
and diet. A general model set of rules shall be prepared by the 
Ministry of Health Assistance and Social Welfare to serve as a guide 
to the various bodies in the preparation of their own rules." 

In public sanatoria, the chief medical officer in charge shall exercise 
dietetic supervision. Article 16 of the Decree lays down that : 

" The chief medical officer in charge shall be generally responsible 
for the conduct of the establishment. He shall be in charge of the 
internal administration." 

Article 17 states, however, that a steward-controller shall be 
responsible for accountancy in the matter of foodstuffs and supplies. 
In this connection, it may be noted (Article 18) that : 

" Laws and regulations concerning the general administration of 
hostels and charitable institutions, particularly as regards . . . 
the supervisory and managerial duties of the steward-controller . . . 
shall be applicable to public sanatoria, save in so far as they may be 
contrary to the foregoing provisions." 

Preventoria are not yet subject to the rules governing sanatoria. 
The Decree-Law of October 30th, 1935, however, concerning the 
reorganisation of departmental health services, lays down that all the 
establishments concerned in the protection of public health shall be 
placed under the supervision of the departmental health inspector. 



— I90 — 

In this way, definite rules will be established for the management of 
these institutions. Special rules may be laid down to govern the diet 
of the inmates. 

Holiday camps are also placed under the supervision of the 
departmental health inspectors. 

Furthermore a model set of rules, which must be observed by all 
establishments in receipt of subsidies, has been prepared by the Ministry 
of Public Health. 

There also exists a dietetic supervision in homes and charitable 
institutions, in elementary education establishments and in secondary 
education establishments. 



Strengthening the Supervisory Organisation. 

(a) General Supervision. 

As has been already stated, though a very close watch is kept on 
all foodstuffs throughout France, effective supervision is much more 
difficult in the case of imported foodstuffs. Hence the need for inter- 
national rules. 

(b) Special Forms of Supervision. 

It has been shown that an extensive supervisory network exists in 
France. The supervision of foodstuffs of the most varied character 
has been taken in hand. There are, however, certain foodstuffs which 
call for special treatment, such as irradiated foostuffs, which have 
become very popular of late. 

Special rules, the principles of which are explained in a separate note, 
will have to be prepared to meet this case. 

On the other hand, the fitness for human consumption of certain 
products like milk can be better ensured by preventive measures than by 
subsequent supervision. It is reasonable to suppose that the quality 
of milk will improve in proportion to the knowledge of hygiene acquired 
by producers. This, then, is a case for the educational propaganda 
undertaken by the Ministry of Health. 

Italy. 

Supervision of everything connected with human food in Italy is 
by law under the Ministry of the Interior, which exercises its powers 
through central and local authorities. 

The central authorities are the Directorate-General of Public Health 
and the Public Health Institute. Both are directly under the Minister 
of the Interior. The Directorate initiates the measures considered 
necessary, and is responsible for the execution of such measures through 
the provincial and communal public health authorities. The Institute, 



— 191 ~ 

which is a purely technical organisation, is a centre for study and 
research, and also for the checking of disputed analyses of the provincial 
Laboratories of Public Health and Prophylaxy. 

The local organisation is similar to the central organisation. In each 
province there is a provincial medical officer and a provincial veterinary 
officer, both of whom are directly under the Prefect ; and in each 
commune there is a public health of&cer, assisted where necessary 
by other ofi&cials, medical and veterinary officers, and chemists, all of 
whom are directly under the Podesta (Mayor). 

In divisions of communes which the public health officer cannot 
cover, his powers are exercised by the local medical officer under the 
instructions of the Podesta. 

Each province has also a Provincial Laboratory of Public Health 
and Prophylaxy organised on the lines of the Public Health Institute 
— i.e., on a purely technical basis. These laboratories serve as research 
centres, and also undertake analyses as required by the provincial 
and communal public health authorities. 

The supervision of the hygienic quality of foodstuffs thus operates 
from the centre through the provincial public health authorities down 
to the most remote and distant communes and villages. 



Public Health Officers. 

The public health officers constitute the basis of the organisation 
for health supervision, and their powers in regard to the hygiene of 
foodstuffs are extensive. 

Directly or through the stafE under them, they supervise the production 
and sale of foodstuffs. They keep a watch on the health of the sta£E 
employed in the manufacture and sale of foodstuffs by periodical visits 
of inspection. They propose to the Podesta the measures required for 
the production of hygienic food conditions, and it is their duty to 
inform the provincial medical officer of health of any circumstances of 
a serious character. 



Provincial Laboratories of Public Health. 

The public health officers are assisted in their work by the Provincial 
Laboratories of Public Health and Prophylaxy. The latter are organised 
on wholly up-to-date lines, and represent one of the most important 
achievements of the Fascist regime in the matter of public health and 
the hygiene of food in particular. 

These laboratories have bateriological and chemical departments 
through which they are in a position to check the hygienic condition 
of foodstuffs on strictly scientific lines, and to bring to light any 
adulteration made possible by the development of technical science. 



— 192 — 

Public Health Legislation on Foodstuffs. 

In addition to the reform of the staff and institutions connected 
with the supervision of food hygiene, far-reaching improvements have 
been made in the legislation on this subject. 

Until 1922, almost the only legislative enactments with regard to 
food hygiene were contained in the old Public Health Code No. 636, 
of August ist, 1907, and in the Special Regulations for the Supervision 
of the Hygiene of Foodstuffs, Beverages and Objects of Domestic Use, 
No. 7045, of August 3rd, i8go. 

Since 1922, the private initiative of producers and traders has been 
regulated in the public interest. 

In addition to the hygienic control of slaughter-houses, the operation 
of the greater part of the food-producing industries has been made 
conditional on the obtaining of previous authorisation from the public 
health authorities. The latter are not allowed to give such authorisations 
unless they have first ascertained that the hygienic conditions of the 
premises, machinery and staff employed in the industry concerned are 
perfectly satisfactory. 

The hygienic control of milk has been extended and improved by 
the institution in the principal centres of " Centrali del Latte " under 
the public authorities, for the centralisation and distribution of milk. 

The hygienic control of shops has also been tightened up by the 
institution of an expert personnel of sanitary inspectors, food inspectors, 
etc., and special conditions have been laid down for the keeping of shops. 
Tradespeople are compelled, for example, to keep foodstuffs in suitable 
receptacles and not to expose them to contact with flies (Law No. 858 
of March 29th, 1928, and Decree of the Head of the Government of 
May 20th, 1928), and so on. 



Quality of Commodities for Sale. 

In a number of cases the quality of products for sale has been defined 
— e.g., the condition of flour, the maximum of humidity in the making 
of bread and alimentary pastes, the minimum grading of alcohol in 
wine, the minimum percentage of dry residue in syrups and syrup 
beverages, and the minimum percentage of fat and of thin residue in 
milk for direct consumption. The milk supply and the production 
of meat and the meat trade have been organised and regulated. 
Regulations on food extracts are about to be issued. 

The main principles of the new regulations with regard to foodstuffs 
are the subordination to the public interest of private interests of 
industrialists and traders, the activities of the latter being regulated 
by authority, the extension of the powers of public health authorities, 
and the establishment of organisations and institutions for the 



— 193 — 

attainment of the objects which the Government has set itself in the 
matter of food hygiene. ^ 

Mexico. 

The General Office of Nutritional Hygiene puts into force special 
regulations relating to foodstuffs. Through its section dealing with 
regulations, it revises and improves existing measures as far as possible, 
so as to ensure the effective supervision and control of all foodstuffs. 
The section will study existing regulations, draw up new ones where 
necessary and see that they are effectively applied in the various parts 
of the country, by adapting them to the real requirements of public 
health, in accordance with the general efforts to improve living 
conditions, especially among the rural and working classes. This section 
will also reply to enquiries and give its opinion on all questions relating 
to nutritional hygiene, with the technical co-operation of all the other 
services or offices of the department. 

The Food Registration Section will be responsible for the registration 
of foodstuffs, beverages, etc., sold in containers or special packings, 
whether coming from abroad or manufactured or prepared in Mexico, 
and also for analysing those products with a view to authorising their 
consumption. 

The Veterinary Hygiene Section will study all questions relating 
to veterinary hygiene in its bearing on human health and of general 
interest to the country, particularly questions relating to imports. 



1 See in particular, the following legislative enactments : 

I. The Public Health Code (Royal Decree No. 1265, of July 27th, 1934, published as a Supplement in 
Ordinary to Official Gazette No. 186, of August gth, 1934-XII). 

'"2. Regulations for the Hygienic Supervision of Meat (in Official Bulletin, No. 7-8, of March nth, 1929- 
VII). 

3. Regulations for the Hygienic Supervision of Milk for Direct Consumption (Royal Decree No. 994, 
of May gth, 1929). 

4. Regulation of Varieties of Flour and Bread (Law No. 368, of March 17th, 1932). 

5 . Regulation of the Sale of Alimentary Pastes (Law No. 874, of June 22nd, 1933). 

6. Wines, vermouths and aperitifs : Legislative Decree No. 2033, of October 15th, 1925 (Articles 13, 
13 and 15) ; Legislative Decree No. 1225, of September 2nd, 1932 (Article 11) ; Regulation No. 1361, of 
July ist, 1926 (Article 61) ; Legislative Decree No. 1696, of November 9th, 1933 ; Legislative Decree 
No. 745, of April 8th, 1935 ; Regulation No. 2164, of October 4th, 1935. 

7. Vinegars : Legislative Decree No. 1225, of September 2nd, 1932 (Article 18). 

8. Oils : Legislative Decree No. 2033, of October 15th, 1929 (Articles 20 ff.) ; Legislative Decree No. 
1314, of October 5th, 1933 (Articles 2 ff.) ; Regulations No. 1361, of July ist, 1926 (Article 73). 

9. Butter : Legislative Decree No. 2033, of October 15th, 1925 (Article 26) ; Legislative Decree No. 
381, of April 6th, 1933 (Article 2). 

10. Lard : Legislative Decree No. 2033, of October 15th, 1932 (Article 31). 

II. Margarine : Legislative Decree of February 15th, 1934 (Article 290). 

12. Cheese : Legislative Decree No. 2033, of October 15th, 1932 (Article 32) ; Legislative Decree No. 
1752, of November 30th, 1933. 

13. Fruit juices, syrups and preserves : Legislative Decree No. 1225, of September 2nd, 1932 (Article 14). 

14. Food preserves prepared with vegetable substances : Legislative Decree No. 501, of February 8th, 

19^3- 

15 . Concentrated Tomato Sauce Extract : Legislative Decree No. 1260, of August 25th, 1932. 
16. Preserved Fish : Legislative Decree No. 1548, of July 7th, 1927. 



— 194 — 

As regards local activities, the service will be responsible, as in the 
past, for supervising the production, handling, transport, sale and 
distribution of foodstuffs, beverages, etc., within the Federal District. 
For this purpose, the various questions will be divided up as follows : 

(i) Questions coming within the province of the Veterinary 
Hygiene Section : 

Sanitary inspection of slaughter-houses, including the inspection 
of the meat and viscera of animals of various kinds authorised 
to be killed for public consumption in the slaughter-houses and 
factories manufacturing meat products in the Federal Districts ; 

Sanitary inspection of shops ; supervision of butchers' shops 
and shops for the sale of poultry, game, fish, shell-fish, etc. ; 

Sanitary inspection of poultry offered for sale in the market ; 

Sanitary inspection of byres ; 

Tuberculin-testing service, which comprises the sanitary control 
of animals to be used for the production of guaranteed milk, by 
means of the tuberculin-test and the careful examination of the 
animals themselves, with a view to eliminating tubercular animals ; 

{2) Questions relating to milk and milk products — namely, the 
inspection of pasteurising plant and the sale and distribution of local 
milk and milk products, and of milk and milk products coming from 
other districts ; 

(3) Questions relating to " pulque " ; sanitary inspection ; the 
transportation and sale of " pulque " ; 

(4) Sanitary inspection of any foodstuffs or beverage not referred 
to in the foregoing paragraphs, including its production, handling 
and sale. 

There will also be offices to attend to the formalities connected with 
the licensing of establishments producing and selling foodstuffs and 
beverages and with infringements of the regulations, and also with 
licences to bring in, transport and distribute those articles. 

Poland. 

The Ministry of Social Assistance, which deals with all public health 
questions, including that of rational feeding, has a Food Control Board 
attached to it, which also conducts enquiries into popular nutrition 
and researches into nutrition from the health standpoint. 

Roumania. 

(a) In Roumania, the law for the protection of health lays down 
that all foods and food ingredients supplied for consumption must be 
of good quality, and not adulterated nor tainted. Special reference 
is made to milk. The controlling authorities are the sanitary inspectors- 



— 195 — 

general, the chief medical officers in the departments, the chief medical 
officers in municipalities, the medical officers in rural and urban districts 
and the laboratory chemists and doctors. 

The control of meat in slaughter-houses and of animals destined for 
human consumption is carried out by veterinary officers. 

(6) There is a law providing for veterinary supervision, and for the 
control and sanitary regulation of slaughter-houses, as well as of stabling 
and of animals intended for use as human food. 

(c) Regulations are laid down for the control of articles of food 
and drink — in particular, specifying the conditions to be fulfilled in 
the case of milk, powdered milk, etc. 

{d) There are legal regulations for veterinary sanitary control. 

Switzerland. 

The campaign against poor quality foodstuffs and for the protection 
of public health is the subject of a whole series of regulations extending 
to meat, meat preparations and other foodstuffs, as well as to a number 
of articles in common use, into the manufacture of which substances 
liable to have an injurious effect on the human body have occasionally 
entered. 

In conformity with Swiss political conditions, the supervision is 
divided between the Confederation and the cantons. Generally speaking, 
the Federal authorities supervise imports, while the cantonal authorities 
supervise internal production, though on similar lines. 

Meat and meat preparations must satisfy the requirements of the 
Veterinary Department, as laid down more particularly in : 

(fl) The Ordinance concerning the slaughter of livestock, inspection 
of meat and trade in meat and meat preparations of January 29th, 
1909 ; 

(6) The Ordinance regulating the supervision at the frontier of 
meat and meat preparations imported into Switzerland of January 
29th, 1909. 

Foodstuffs and common objects subject to supervision are inspected 
with a view to their quality and compliance with the legal rules contained 
in such regulations as : 

(c) The Ordinance concerning cantonal inspectors of foodstuffs 
of January 29th, 1909 ; 

{d) The Ordinance concerning chemists for the analysis of foodstuffs 
of September 27th, 1919 ; 

[e) The Ordinance regulating trade in foodstuffs and diverse 
common objects of May 26th, 1936 ; 



— 196 — 

(/) The Regulations for the taking of samples of foodstuffs and 
common objects of April i6th, 1929 ; 

(g) The Ordinance regulating the supervision at the frontier of 
foodstuffs and common objects of October 28th, 1932. 

Turkey. 

Very considerable efforts are being made to regulate the consumption 
of food products on sound and hygienic lines. The Turkish Penal Code, 
published in 1926, contains, for the first time in Turkey, provisions with 
regard to the purity of foodstuffs. The Public Health Law which came 
into force in 1930 has again been concerned with this important problem, 
which it has erdeavoured to solve on entirely up-to-date lines. 
Successive executive measures and instructions have served to fill up 
gaps in the legislation on the subject. Special attention has been devoted 
by the authorities to the milk question. 

Uruguay. 

Since its " Organic Law " was issued on January 12th, 1934, the 
Ministry of Public Health has given serious attention to the problem 
of national nutrition. Chapter IV : " Police Supervision of Foodstuffs ", 
includes among the functions of the said Ministry the " deterinination 
of the conditions to be complied with by the foodstuffs put on the 
market and regulations concerning their quality and purity ". It is 
laid down that this supervision it to be carried out by " officials of 
the Ministry, without prejudice to any action taken by the municipal 
authorities and the Customs offices concerned. " 

In Uruguay, milk forms the subject of a special Act and of municipal 
regulations governing supply and distribution ; and pure milk is now 
available for consumption in the capital and in certain places inland, 
as the result of pasteurisation and strict supervision. 

In this connection, a study is now being made on the basis of 
publication No. 5 of the Pan-American Health Office — i.e., Model 
Decree concerning Milk — of national regulations to serve as a basis 
for the communal and departmental authorities in the application of 
measures for the improvement of milk for consumption. The regulations 
on the subject will thus be standardised. 

Yugoslavia. 

In Yugoslavia, to protect the public health and insure wholesome 
food for the population, the Law on the Supervision of Foodstuffs of 
February 8th, 1930, brings under public control foodstuffs and beverages 
of all kinds, including the appearance, taste and colour of spices, 
and the instruments used, or to be used, for manufacture, weighing, 
packing, preserving or consignment. 



— 197 — 

The object of the supervision is to : 

(i) Insure that the quality of fresh or treated foodstuffs is 
wholesome ; 

(2) Prevent contagious or parasitic diseases from being transmitted 
through the medium of foodstuffs ; 

(3) Prevent poisoning or other effects injurious to health as a 
result of the use of foodstuffs or of the instruments, tools or receptacles 
required for their manufacture, packing, preserving or consignment ; 

(4) Prevent counterfeiting and adulteration of foodstuffs in a 
manner injurious to health ; 

(5) Prevent injury to the nutritive value of foodstuff's or beverages 
of any kind. 

CHAPTER VII. 

RESEARCH, EDUCATION AND PUBLIC INSTRUCTION. 

Side by side with the relief organisations' activities, an intense 
propaganda has been conducted to study this problem and to draw 
the attention of the public and of scientists to the importance of the 
question of nutrition and also to promote effective application of the 
measures suggested by experts. Patience is an essential factor in 
modifying the tastes and habits of a people. With modern technique, 
however, amazing results can be achieved by popular education and 
propaganda. 

Union of South Africa. 

In South Africa, the Health Department of the Central Government 
employs a medical inspector and a number of nurse-lecturers in its 
child welfare section. These officers continually travel about the country 
instructing groups of mothers and others in infant health and more 
particularly infant feeding. 

The South African Red Cross Society and the South African National 
Council for Child Welfare do much health educative work, including 
instruction on nutrition throughout the Union. The latter organisation 
employs full-time trained women health visitors for this work. 

Various missionary societies have hospitals and clinics in backward 
native areas and are doing valuable educative work. 

Propaganda work with regard to disseminating among the public 
a knowledge of the principles and practice of rational nutrition is 
continuously being done by the officers of the Central Government, 
local authorities and charitable organisations enumerated above. 
This work is being done by such officers along with numerous other 
health duties, and it cannot be claimed that instruction regarding 
nutrition is spreading at all rapidly, particularly among the " poor 
whites " and Bantus, where it is most needed. 



— 198 — 

Argentine Republic. 

The Municipal Institute of Nutrition in Buenos Aires. 

The Municipal Institute of Nutrition in Buenos Aires is the only 
institution in the country for the study of the social and technical 
problems bearing on popular nutrition. It is subsidised by the Central 
Government with the help of credits provided for under Law No. 11912. 

The Institute consists of the following branches : 

(1) A hospital consisting of (a) wards for men, women, children 
and infants, 100 beds in all ; (6) outpatients' departments for men, 
women, children and infants ; (c) nutrition services with canteens ; 
(d) canteens for outpatients ; (e) clinical analysis laboratories ; 

(2) A Municipal School of Dietetics, comprising two years' study 
at the university ; 

(3) The Chair of Clinical Medicine at the Faculty of Medicine 
of Buenos Aires, occupied by Professor Escudero ; 

(4) Food research laboratories ; 

(5) A section for supervising and protecting healthy individuals, 
to which we shall refer later. 

In September 1935, the Institute set up a section known as the 
" Section for assisting and protecting Healthy Persons ", the cost of 
which is met out of the credits provided for under Law No. 119 12. 
This section consists of eight sub-sections, for the services of which 
no charge whatever is made. 

The first sub-section supervises the health, nutrition and work of 
pregnant women who apply to it (obstetrical treatment is excluded) ; 
when the family's means are insufficient to ensure proper nutrition, 
food is provided at the Institute's canteen. 

The second sub-section supervises the health, nutrition and work of 
nursing mothers and, where necessary, supplies them with food. 

The third sub-section supervises the normal growth and healthy 
development of children on the register and gives advice as to their 
food, rest and mental and physical work. 

The fourth sub-section supervises the health of persons of both 
sexes and gives them advice on the subject of physical labour in relation 
to bodily health. 

The fifth sub-section advices upon diet with due regard for the 
age, work, physical condition and economic situation of the persons 
concerned. It draws up a family dietary based on the income, work, 
age and sex of the members of the family. 



— 199 — 

The sixth sub-section gives confidential information to persons 
intending to marry and tells them whether they are suffering from 
communicable diseases. It tells married people suffering from parasitic 
affections which can be passed on to children how to prevent inherited 
disease and counteract the effects of such heredity. 

The seventh sub-section supervises the nutrition of healthy children 
from birth until they reach the age of four and ascertains whether 
their mental and physical development is normal. 

The eighth sub-section will be inaugurated shortly. 

This last-named sub-section will be supplemented, in July 1936, 
by the setting-up of an establishment for supplying infants who need 
it with human milk in sterilised bottles containing 10 c.cm. This milk 
will be supplied free of charge to children whose parents are not in 
receipt of more than the minimum wage. The milk will be bought 
from mothers who are feeding their child at the breast, under the 
Institute's supervision ; only the surplus which can be taken without 
depriving the child will be purchased ; it will be taken and preserved 
according to aseptic methods. 

The grants made for the purchase of milk are quite small ; they are 
never large enough to cover the family's expenses, which must be met 
by regular work. 



Scheme for establishing Public Canteens. 

In his articles published in the Pvensa, of Buenos Aires, in 1931, and 
reproduced in his book on nutrition, Professor Escudero set forth the 
reasons — technical, economic and social — why public nutrition services 
should be set up under the municipalities for the purpose of providing 
the population with meals at the cost price of the raw materials or of 
the preparation of those meals. The general establishment of such 
services would solve an important economic and social problem in 
connection with the feeding of the poorest section of the urban 
population. It would save them the necessity of preparing meals for 
themselves and would enable them to obtain them at much less than 
their present cost. Housewives would be able to devote to other 
productive occupations the time spent in preparing meals, and mal- 
nutrition, with its serious consequences, would be avoided. 

The Institute has decided to set up these public canteens so far as 
its resources permit, for demonstration purposes and with a view to 
encouraging the establishment of similar canteens in every district. 

The system of public canteens and the establishment of a sufficient 
number of canteens for patients who are resuming work would solve 
the most serious problem raised in connection with the nutrition of 
the workers. 



200 

Canteen for Patients who are resuming Work. 

When a patient leaves the hospital in order to take up a normal 
life again, his diet requires special care. He does not lose touch with 
the hospital, and attends the canteen. In 1922, Professor Escudero 
set up a canteen for patients whose case-record cards show that they 
need a special diet. These patients come to the canteen at meal-times, 
and resume their work, which enables them to provide for the livelihood 
of their families. 

The Argentine is probably the first country to have established this 
form of social assistance to sick persons on their return to normal life. 
The general adoption of this system throughout the municipality was 
proposed in 1934. 

Canteens attached to Municipal Schools. 

In application of Decree No. 7279, the Municipal Institute of Nutrition 
has set up a school nutrition service for the sole purpose of looking after 
children who attend the canteens. This nutrition service is under the 
authority and technical supervision of the Director of the Institute. 
It also possesses a staff of pediatricians who are responsible for selecting 
the children. Under-nourished children and those who are suffering 
from disorders due to inadequate or defective nutrition are singled 
out. These children are provided each day with lunch having a net 
caloric value of 1,250 calories. During the winter months, three canteens, 
each with accommodation for 500 children, will be established and others 
will be set up later until there is accommodation for 4,500 children. 
These children will also be placed under the supervision of the 
Government and the Physical Education Department, which will 
supplement the measures taken bv the Institute. 

Research. 

A Neiv Use for Hard Wheat. 

The Work of the Municipal Institute of Nutrition is not confined 
to propaganda ; it is also endeavouring to solve the technical problem 
of the economical nutrition of the population. It has been laid down 
as a principle that the concept of popular nutrition should be based, 
not on the actual diet of the people, but on diets making full use of 
local products. 

In this connection, the Institute has considered bv what means hard 
corn, the most perfect type of which is wheat, can be utilised direct 
as a substitute for dried vegetables, which are imported and which, 
if home-grown, work out at a higher price. The problem has been dealt 
with from the economic, technical and industrial standpoints. For 
some time past, corn prepared according to the formula specified by 
the Institute has been on the market. The six outer cellulose layers 
are removed by a special process, leaving the grain and protein layer, 
which constitute the nutritive value of the corn, intact. 



20I — 

A pamphlet on wheat, containing recipes for the preparation of 
various dishes for which wheat is used, has been published. This 
utilisation of hard wheat has the advantage of creating a new demand, 
without reducing the sale of bread cereals, which cannot be used in 
this form. Hard wheat is used solely for the manufacture of alimentary 
pastes. 

Popular Instruction. 

A campaign to disseminate the principles of rational nutrition was 
begun some time ago. Last year, a series of popular lectures on the 
following subjects was inaugurated : 

(i) A rational hospital dietary : determination of the rational 
form of nutrition in hospitals, in accordance with the general nutri- 
tional principles laid down by Professor Escudero ; 

(2) The risks to which consumers of the milk sold at Buenos 
Aires are exposed : essential precautions ; hygienic requirements ; 
advice as to how these risks may be avoided ; 

(3) The importance of milk as an article of diet : why it is so 
valuable and why it should be consumed in large quantities ; 

(4) The value of meat for the prevention and treatment of anaemia 
due to defective nutrition, and of the iron contained in meat ; 

(5) The nutrition of pregnant women : characteristics of this 
condition ; advice as to the most suitable and economical diet ; 

(6) Why animal albumen should be consumed daily : demons- 
tration of the medical advantages ; 

(7) Cheap dietaries for workers : analysis of the dietaries of 
sixty families and of their means : how their diet can be improved 
within the limits of those means ; 

(8) Influence of vitamins A and D on the growth of the child. 

Australia. 

(For living-wage standards, see Chapter III, page 99.) 

The State of New South Wales. 

Testing the Prevailing Level of Nutrition. 

The general average nutrition of the inhabitants is tested by periodical 
examination of the protein content and calorific value of the calculated 
■per capita consumption of the principal foodstuffs. The last public 
examination was made by the Industrial Commission in 1932, by 
roethods similar to those used in " The National Diet ", and with 
satisfactory conclusions. The nutrition allowance was compared with 



202 

the average diet of the Ford Motor Company's employees in Detroit, 
as analysed by the International Labour Office, the results being 
published under the title " International Enquiry into Costs of Living ", 
Geneva, 1931. The Commission at the same time examined the vexed 
question of the relative requirements of men, women and children of 
different ages. It found, incidentally, that, in comparison with the newer 
standards of calorie requirements laid down by recent authoritative 
works, the Atwater coefficients used by the Commission in conjunction 
with a standard allowance of 3,500 calories a day for an average man 
gave adequate total nutrition for its statutory family of man, wife 
and one child (as prescribed by the Legislature in 1929 in conjunction 
with child endowment). 

Education. 

In the schools of New South Wales, from the kindergarten up to 
the senior grades of the primary schools, children are taught the value 
of proper food and healthful diet. In the domestic science schools, 
special attention is devoted to the study of home economics (including 
food and diet), which is included as one of the subjects in the 
Intermediate Certificate Examination. Lectures on food and nutrition 
are also included as a part of the course in hygiene which is taken by 
all students passing through the Teachers' College. 

The Department of Health of the State of New South Wales issues, 
gratis, from time to time, pamphlets on nutrition in non-technical 
language. An example which has a wide circulation is issued under the 
title " Food and Nutrition ". 



The State of Victoria. 

Education. 

Much work has been done by both public authorities and private 
organisations in this State by : 

(i) Lectures to expectant mothers on diet given by doctors and 
nurses at baby health centres. Talks are also given to mothers on the 
diet of infants and young children. 

(2) In State schools, health instruction, including dietetics, is 
given as a part of the ordinary school curriculum. 

(3) Classes for older girls in food values and the preparation 
and cooking of food have been established at all schools of domestic 
economy. 

(4) The Better Farming Train, which reaches all portions of the 
State, includes a trained lecturer on infant welfare and an instructress 
in cooking, who lectures to country women on diet and the preparation 
of food. 



203 — 

(5) Wireless talks to schoolchildren are given by a medical expert 
in all health matters, including dietetics. 

(6) General broadcast talks are given to the public on dietetics 
by medical experts. 

(7) Pamphlets and articles in the daily Press are issued on 
dietetics by health departments and by such associations as the 
Health Association of Australia. 

The State of Western Australia. 

Educative pamphlets upon food requirements and diet have been 
issued in large numbers by the Health Department of Western Australia, 
and in regard to infants and young children also by the Infant Health 
Association. Lectures and broadcasts also assist in this direction. 

The Northern Territory. 

The Administration maintains a medical service throughout the 
territory, which concerns itself, inter alia, with the health and welfare 
of the population, and reports on any action necessary to correct defects 
from time to time detected. 

The organisation of the medical service provides the only means in 
the territory of testing the prevailing level of nutrition, and investigations 
have been carried out in respect of certain groups of aboriginals, persons 
in institutions, schoolchildren and persons in receipt of Government 
relief. It so happens that the general dietary of the white population 
in the territory is for the most part adequate. Deficiencies in the supply 
of milk and vegetables are at the present time the subject of investigation. 
It is anticipated that a report will be made to the Administrator in 
the immediate future. Pre-natal and infant welfare clinics are maintained 
in Darwin for the guidance of mothers of all races. 

Information is collected in two ways : 

(i) Study of the individual from the pre-natal period until death, 
this procedure being rendered possible by the organisation and 
practice of the Medical Service. 

(2) Direct enquiry into the dietary of different races and groups 
of people collated from details furnished by individuals. 

Territory of Papua. 

The Papuan Native Labour Regulations empower the Commissioner 
for Native Affairs to order an employer to provide special diets for 
indentured native labourers showing signs of deficiency diseases, such 
as beriberi, scurvy, tuberculosis or pneumonia ; detailed supplementary 
diets are prescribed in such cases. 



204 — 

For the medical and health service, the Government maintains three 
fully qualified Government medical officers, six European medical 
assistants, forty-three travelling native medical assistants and, at the 
European and native hospitals, thirty native attendants. A European 
medical assistant is employed both at Port Moresby and at Samarai. 
The forty-three travelling native medical assistants have, for the most 
part, received a six months' training under the chief medical officer, 
followed by a six months' course of study at the School of Public Hisalth 
and Tropical Medicine in Sydney, Australia. The work of these native 
assistants is highly appreciated by the district officers and public. 
They work under and report directly to the chief medical officer and are 
visited by the travelling European medical assistants. 

The Government medical officers, the Government medical assistants 
and the native medical assistants do their best to disseminate the 
principles and practice of rational nutrition along the lines of the 
knowledge of vitamins. But it must be admitted that the great difficulty 
is that of supplying the correct foods. The missions do valuable work 
in instilling into the natives the more correct methods of the feeding 
of infants and of the pregnant and nursing mothers. But modern 
methods are pretty well impossible as a rule, due to the lack of financial 
resources and the consequent difficulty in getting adequate foods in 
accordance with relatively expensive European standards. 

Mandated Territory of New Guinea. 

Nutrition of Indentured Natives. 

With the exception of labourers in the goldfields area, where the 
indentured natives are living at altitudes of from 3,000 to 7,000 feet 
above sea-level, and where the mortality from pneumonia, influenza 
and dysentery is very high, the improvement in stamina and physique 
of natives during their terms of contract where they have regular 
working hours, balanced diet, and prompt medical treatment of active 
or latent tropical diseases is most obvious, and a very strong justification 
for the system of indentured labour. 

The diet is, on the whole, adequate. The absence of beriberi — except 
very few cases in prison camps, etc. — shows sufficiency of vitamin B. 
Fats, especially in other than coastal districts, are deficient, causing 
need for much bulky carbohydrates. The planting of extra coconut 
groves in inland areas is being encouraged. 

The influence of the indentured labourers, returning after three-year 
contracts to villages in the interior, in educating the population in the 
growing of a more varied diet is becoming more and more noticeable. 

The Agricultural Department gives instruction in the rotation of 
crops, and both this department and the missions distribute various 
seeds, thus gradually adding to the variety of the diet and increasing 
its vitamin value. 



— 205 — 

Austria. 

Education. 

In Austria, as regards the education of the people in the principles 
of rational nutrition, the Public Health Department of the Federal 
Ministry of Social Administration possesses a collection of lantern- 
slides, which are lent on request to those interested. These collections 
are frequently borrowed by doctors in all parts of the country for public 
or school lectures. 

The Austrian Red Cross Society has an extensive range of exhibits, 
including fine pictorial representations of the various food products 
and their calorie content, and the composition of rational dietaries. This 
material is shown at travelling exhibitions. The last exhibition was 
held at Salzburg in October 1935. 

Explanations of the principles and practice of rational nutrition 
are given, more particularly at elementary and secondary schools and 
in special courses organised by various economic organisations, such 
as Chambers of Agriculture. 

Belgium. 

Education. 

In Belgium, the Ministry of Agriculture has taken various steps to 
ensure an improved dietary for the rural population, to which reference 
may be made. In field schools of agricultural domestic economy, young 
girls receive practical and theoretical training on the choice and 
preparation of food and on the facts of the science of human nutrition. 
Short courses are also organised for farmers' wives and older girls. 

There is a service of domestic economy advisers in agricultural districts. 
These advisers have the diploma of agricultural domestic economy 
teachers. Their main object is to give the farmers' wives and housewives 
in rural districts such information as they may require with regard 
to the rational and economic feeding of their families, and also in regard 
to the upkeep and purchase of clothing and furniture. 

The service of domestic economy advisers also makes it its business 
to discover the districts in which there is an opening for courses or 
lectures on domestic economy. The advisers organise propaganda, 
attend lessons, etc. 

A higher-training college has been established for the study of 
agricultural domestic economy, and subsidies are granted to six similar 
institutions of a private character. The object is to prepare a body of 
picked women capable of improving social conditions among the rural 
population, and to train teachers of agricultural domestic economy, 
who acquire the title of qualified agricultural domestic economy 
teachers. The period of study is three years. Teaching is both practical 



— 2o6 

and theoretical. The different branches of the science of nutrition 
predominate in the programme of study and are thoroughly taught. 
Young girls also learn the special methods of giving lessons in cookery. 

Subsidies are also granted to some forty middle schools of agricultural 
domestic economy, at which the pupils are children of 12, 13 and 14 
years of age. 

In addition, a large number of popular courses in agricultural domestic 
economy are organised with the help of subsidies, as well as lectures 
and demonstration lessons relating to nutrition among groups of farmers' 
wives and agricultural housewives. 

Popular Instruction. 

In Belgium, there has been an intensive propaganda to promote the 
consumption of milk. The propaganda takes the form chiefly of posters, 
articles in newspapers and " Milk Days " or " Milk Weeks ". Private 
organisations have also done much to improve conditions of nutrition 
in the countryside. Groups of farmers' wives often arrange for lectures 
and demonstration lessons in cookery for their members. 

Fish days consist in demonstrating the manner of gutting, cleaning 
and preparing cheap fish, and explanations of the nutritive value and 
manner of using fish. 

The National Federation of Avicultural Societies organises each year 
an " Egg Week ", during which a competent training staff shows the 
public a number of different ways of preparing eggs and using them for 
food. The public can purchase the dishes at cost price. 

The State Agricultural Experts' Service has co-operated in the 
propaganda to increase the consumption of Belgian milk and fruit. 

United Kingdom. 

The Ministry of Health and Other Government Departments. 

Nutrition in England and Wales is primarily the concern of the 
Ministry of Health as the central department responsible for the health 
of the people as a whole (in Scotland, of the Department of Health 
for Scotland). The chief functions of the Ministry in this respect fall 
into two parts : supervision of the administration by local authorities 
of the legislation designed to safeguard the purity and wholesomeness 
of the food supply, and educational and propaganda work with a view 
to disseminating knowledge of food values and the needs of the human 
body. The latter function is exercised through the agency of local 
authorities and their public health staffs, as well as by the information 
which is directly made available by the Ministry. The Minister of 
Health is responsible for bringing before Parliament such legislation 
as may be necessary under these heads. 

The Board of Education (in Scotland, the Department of Health) 
supervises the work done by local education authorities in England 



207 — 

and Wales, including the administration of the school medical service, 
for which the Minister of Health has Parliamentary responsibility. 

A number of other Government Departments are actively concerned 
in work concerning nutrition. The Medical Research Council, for 
instance, has committees dealing with such matters as quantitative 
problems of human nutrition and accessory food factors and dental 
diseases ; the Food Investigation Board of the Department of Scientific 
and Industrial Research has committees dealing with practical questions 
of food manufacture ; and the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries 
undertakes research on nutrition questions in connection with the 
agricultural and marketing policies of the Government. The Ministry 
of Health keeps in close touch with all these activities. 

The Advisory Committee on Nutrition. 

In order to be in a position to give authoritative advice and to conduct 
propaganda to enable the public to benefit from the results of the 
steady progress made in scientific research, an Advisory Committee 
on Nutrition was appointed in 1931 " to advise the Minister of Health 
on the practical application of modern advances in the knowledge of 
nutrition ". 

The Advisory Committee on Nutrition, reconstituted and enlarged, 
was reappointed in 1935 by the Minister of Health and the Secretary 
of State for Scotland " to enquire into the facts, quantitative and 
qualitative, in relation to the diet of the people and to report as to any 
changes therein which appear desirable in the light of modern advances 
in the knowledge of nutrition ". This Committee numbers amongst 
its members leading scientific authorities, physiologists, statisticians 
and economists. 

Work of the Ministry of Health (England and Wales). 

Since its foundation in 19 19, the Ministry of Health has always 
insisted upon the vital importance of nutrition as a fundamental factor 
in personal and public health. Two principal means are available to 
them. First, the education of the community in the choice of suitable 
food, and, secondly, the safeguarding of foods from deficiency in 
composition, from adulteration and from contamination. 

The annual reports of the Ministry and of their chief medical officer 
contain much information on nutrition, both of a scientific and a popular 
character. 

In 192 1, the Ministry published a report entitled " Diet in Relation 
to Normal Nutrition ". The object of this report was to afford useful 
information to medical officers of health, physicians, teachers and 
others who have opportunities for spreading scientific knowledge 
amongst the people. Also in 1921, the Ministry, in conjunction with the 
Medical Research Council, made arrangements for exhaustive 



— 2o8 — 

investigations b}^ Dr. Corry Mann, extending over four years, into 
the nutritive value of milk as compared with other foodstuffs. The 
results demonstrated the unique value of milk. In 1932, the Ministry 
published two reports made by the Advisory Committee on Nutrition, 
" Diets in Poor Law Children's Homes " and " The Criticism and 
Improvement of Diets ". In 1932, the Ministry issued a circular based 
on recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Nutrition, drawing 
attention to the incidence of nutritional anaemia in infancy, and of 
rickets and dental diseases, suggesting measures whereby these conditions 
may be combated, and pointing out the value of milk in the dietary 
of growing children. 

Activities of the Medical Research Council. 

Research work on nutrition has been very actively pursued in the 
United Kingdom during the last quarter of a century. These 
investigations, necessarily expensive, have been supported from public 
funds provided by the Government through the Medical Research 
Council. 

The following are the main heads under which research has been done : 

{i) Experimental investigations into the part played by various 
constituents of diet, notably vitamins and mineral salts, in maintaining 
full health and normal growth. 

(ii) Clinical and pathological studies of diseases due in whole 
or part to deficiency of particular food substances. 

{in) Practical trials, on numbers of human beings, of the effects 
of improving the diet by the addition of specific constituents. 

(iv) Fundamental research into the origin, distribution, chemical 
nature and physiological activity of the different vitamins. 

{v) Work directed towards the standardisation of vitamins so 
that amounts of these may be quantitatively expressed both in 
further research and in practical therapeutics and dietetics. 

{vi) Analyses of various foodstuffs in common use to determine 
their composition, including their content of vitamins and mineral 
elements. 

{vii) Surveys of different sections of the population to ascertain 
what dietaries are in actual use. 

There are few problems in nutrition that have not, at one time or 
another, received the attention of investigators working for the Medical 
Research Council. The subjects of the following reports will illustrate 
the fundamental nature of much of the work which has been done in 
the United Kingdom : Nutrition and Rickets, Nutrition and Teeth, 
Nutritional Anaemia, The Value of Milk, Vitamins, The Standardisation 



— 2og — 

of Vitamins, Composition of Foodstuffs, Nutritional Surveys into the 
Actual Diets of Different Sections of the Population. 

The important additions to knowledge which have been secured 
by these means in the United Kingdom and elsewhere have provided 
a new basis for action aimed at improving nutrition. 

Research Work on Nutrition being carried out by Local 
Authorities with the Assistance of the Ministry of Health. 

Two types of family dietary studies are undertaken, quantitative 
and qualitative. Their object is to ascertain the nature of the diets 
consumed by people in different parts of the country. The quantitative 
studies are conducted in a strictly quantitative manner and therefore 
throw light on the amounts of different foods eaten as well as on the 
family budgets. The qualitative studies give precise information only 
in so far as the nature and not the amount of the constituents of the diet 
is concerned ; but, in regard to certain particulars such as milk, they 
can be relied on to give fairly accurate quantitative information. 

A quantitative study has recently been carried out on sixty-nine 
working-class families in Newcastle-on-Tyne. Another quantitative 
study is at present proceeding in the West Riding of Yorkshire. Two 
qualified dieticians are engaged on this work and they have at present 
studied the diets of 155 families. This study has included workers 
engaged in various industries, including mining, railway works, 
ironworks, transport, textiles and farming. 

Qualitative dietary studies are proceeding in Leeds and Glossop. 

Milk Nutrition Committee's Investigation. 

The investigation sponsored by the Milk Nutrition Committee set 
up in accordance with arrangements made under Section 11 of the Milk 
Act, 1934, is proceeding at present in Luton, Wolverhampton, Burton- 
on-Trent, Renfrewshire and Huddersfield. About 8,000 children aged 
5-14 years, in four groups of about 2,000 each, are included in the enquiry. 
The children were divided at random into the following four groups in 
accordance with the supplements they were to receive : 

(i) The control group — the children in which receive biscuits once 
daily. 

(2) This group receives one-third of a pint of pasteurised milk once 
daily. 

(3) This group receives one-third of a pint of pasteurised milk 
twice daily. 

(4) This group receives one-third of a pint of raw Grade A milk 
twice daily. 

All the supplements are given free. Before the supplementary feeding 
began, the children were submitted to a preliminary medical examination, 



2IO 

consisting of clinical examination, physiological tests and physical 
measurements. The supplementary feeding is to continue for at least a 
year, and medical examinations are to be carried out every three months. 
Four full-time medical officers specially instructed in the method of 
examination are conducting the practical part of the investigation. 

Investigations into Food Consumption in relation to Income. 

Investigations into the food consumption of the population of the United 
Kingdom at different income levels in 1934 have been undertaken by 
the Market Supply Committee in conjunction with the Rowett Research 
Institute. A report based on this work, entitled " Food, Health and 
Income : A Survey of Adequacy of Diet in Relation to Income ", was 
made available in proof form for the first session of the Mixed Committee 
and has since been published by Sir John Orr. 

The report finds that the expenditure on food in the United Kingdom 
amounts to £1,075,000,000 per week out of a total income of 
£3,750,000,000, or about gs. per person per week out of an average 
weekly income of 30s. Meat and fish account for over 32% of the food 
expenditure ; bread and cereals for less than 9%. Meat, fish, eggs, milk 
and cheese, which are the sources of animal protein, account for nearly 
half the total expenditure. Vegetables, other than potatoes, contribute 
less to the total than sugar, though they are more important for health. 
With the exception of wheat, flour and potatoes, there has been a 
substantial increase in the consumption of most of the principal foods 
since before the war. 

An examination of expenditure at different income levels leads to the 
conclusion that the consumption of bread and potatoes is practically 
uniform throughout the different income groups. Consumption of 
milk, eggs, fruit, vegetables, meat and fish rises with income. Thus, in 
the poorest group, the average consumption of milk, including tinned milk, 
is equivalent to 1.8 pint a head a week ; in the wealthiest group, 5.5 
pints. The poorest group consumes 1.5 egg a head a week; the wealthiest, 
4.5 eggs. The poorest spend 2.4^?. on fruit ; the wealthiest, is. 8d. 

From these facts, the important inference is drawn that the degree of 
adequacy for health increases as income rises. The average diet of the 
poorest group, comprising 4,500,000 people, is, by the standard adopted, 
deficient in every constituent examined. The second group, comprising 
9,000,000 people, is adequate in protein, fat and carbohydrates, but 
deficient in all the vitamins and minerals considered. The third group, 
comprising another 9,000,000, is deficient in several of the important 
vitamins and minerals. Complete adequacy is almost reached in the 
fourth group, and in the still wealthier groups the diet has a surplus 
of all constituents considered. 

A review of the state of health of the people of the different groups 
suggests that, as income increases, disease and death rate decrease, 
children grow more quickly, adult stature is greater and general health 
and physique improve. 



211 



Investigation by the Department of Health (Scotland). 

In 1930. the Department of Health for Scotland conducted an 
experiment in Lanarkshire into the effect of an additional daily milk 
ration on the growth of schoolchildren. Some 20,000 children were 
included in the investigation, 10,000 of the children receiving daily 
a supplementary ration of three-quarters of a pint over a period of four 
months, the remaining 10,000 serving as controls. The results 
demonstrated that the addition of milk to the diet of children has a 
striking effect in improving physique and general health and increasing 
mental alertness. A report on the experiment was published by the 
Department of Health in 1930. 

The Department published, in 1934, ^ report on milk consumption 
in Scotland prepared by Dr. Leighton and Dr. McKinlay as a result 
of an enquiry into the average amount of liquid milk consumed in 
Scottish households. It was ascertained that there was great variation 
in the amounts consumed in different localities. In large burghs, the 
figures are, in the aggregate, lower than in county districts. In individual 
burghs, they vary from 0.27 pint per head per day in Hamilton to 0.7 
pint per head per day in Perth, In counties, the variation is also great, 
from 0.3 in Lanark to 1.03 in Aberdeen. The averages of the aggregates 
are for : {i) large burghs, 0.417 ; (ii) counties, exclusive of large burghs, 
0.55 ; and {Hi) Scotland as a whole, 0.479 pint per head per day. 

Nutrition Publicity (Scotland). 

By means of " Health Weeks ", model dietary sheets and specimen 
meals, an endeavour is made to interest and educate the public in 
Scotland in the elements of nutrition. Lectures are given on the subject 
and leaflets distributed. 

Instruction is also given through the maternity and child welfare 
authorities and education authorities. 

A good deal is being done by private organisations and commercial 
firms to extend a knowledge of proper nutrition among the public. 
Many daily and weekly newspapers and journals also give advice. 
Commercial organisations — e.g., the Scottish Milk Marketing Board — 
have issued recipe booklets showing how their particular products may 
best be utilised in the daily dietary. In addition, the Scottish Milk 
Marketing Board employs a propaganda woman officer, who addresses 
meetings with a view to interesting the public in the use of milk. 

Popular Instruction carried out by Private Organisations. 

There are numerous private bodies devoted to the education of the 
public in the interests of national nutrition. The following are examples : 

(a) The Central Council for Health Education was formed in 1927, 
the Society of Medical Officers of Health being largely instrumental in 



— 212 — 

establishing it. It acts as a central body to co-ordinate the methods 
and activities of the numerous voluntary bodies who deal with particular 
aspects of health education. It assists local authorities in carrying out 
health education, and in organising " Health Weeks " and exhibitions. 
It publishes a monthly journal entitled Better Health, which local 
authorities frequenth'^ use as a basis of a local health paper by 
incorporating local information of services available and articles of 
special interest to their areas. 

(b) The British Broadcasting Corporation. — A large amount of work 
has already been done by the British Broadcasting Corporation in 
relation to public health propaganda, in which the Ministry of Health 
has been associated. Practical advice on diet and health and on cookery 
is systematically broadcast, especially for the benefit of housewives, 
and leaflets are published. 

(c) The National Milk Publicity Council. — The National Milk 
Publicity Council was formed in 1920 '' with a view to the inauguration 
of a campaign on national lines to instruct the public as to the value of 
pure milk ". The Council is principally composed of representatives of 
the various organisations in the milk industry, but it also includes 
representatives of Government departments and of such bodies as the 
Society of Medical Officers of Health. The Council has carried on its 
work by means of publicity in the general and technical Press, by the 
issue of leaflets, recipe lists and cinema films, by broadcasting, by the 
encouragement of clean milk competitions and displays and 
demonstrations at health exhibitions, and by general lectures and 
addresses at factories, welfare centres and schools and under the auspices 
of associations such as the Boy Scouts, temperance societies and women's 
institutes. 

The National Milk Publicity Council includes in its activities 
propaganda with a view to encouraging the sale at collieries and factories 
of half and one-third pints of milk as a daily milk service for employees. 
The scheme has now been adopted in a considerable number of collieries 
and in factories of very varied types. 

Besides the " milk in schools " campaign, the Council arranges for 
lectures and cooking demonstrations to women's clubs and infant welfare 
centres, propaganda by films, organisation of intensive campaigns during^ 
Health and Baby Weeks, etc., a campaign for increased consumption of 
milk in workshops, factories and mines, the distribution of pamphlets, 
posters, etc., and lectures by travelling cinema vans. 

(d) The British Medical Association. — As one of its widespread 
activities, the British Medical Association set up a Committee in 1933 
to determine the minimum weekly expenditure on foodstuffs which must 
be incurred by families of varying size if health and working capacity 
are to be maintained, and to construct specimen diets. Following upon 
the report of this Committee, made in 1933, which contained detailed 



— 213 — 

lists of foodstuffs and of the quantities required per week by individuals 
and families, the Association issued a booklet in 1935 transposing the 
lists of raw foodstuffs into receipts and menus for family diets, which 
was published under the title of " Family Meals and Catering ". 
Broadcast talks are now being given on this booklet. 

(e) The People's League of Health. — This body has, since its inception 
in 1917, devoted much attention to food, its constituents and proper 
proportion and value to the human body, the best methods of cooking 
and the effects of improper diet. The League has issued in simple 
explanatory form pamphlets on " Diet in its Relation to Health ", 
" Vitamins — What to eat and why ", and has instituted an annual series 
of lectures by members of the medical profession and others. 

(f) National Federation of Women's Institutes. — This Federation 
represents 300,000 country women living in the smaller villages of 
England and Wales. The subject of nutrition has lately occupied an 
important place in their educational programme, and, early in 1935, a 
National Conference was arranged with a view to arousing further 
interest in the subject amongst their members. The Federation has 
arranged courses in cookery and food values for students who already 
possess some knowledge of this subject and who are prepared to 
undertake teaching work in women's institutes. Lectures and 
demonstrations in cookery and domestic economy form an important 
part of their activities. 

(g) Scottish Federation of Women's Rural Institutes. — The institutes 
associated in this National Federation have a membership of 50,000 
women living in the small towns, villages and rural districts of Scotland. 

Through the county federations, the subject of improved nutrition 
among the people is receiving special attention, and lectures and 
demonstrations in cooking and domestic economy form an important 
feature of the individual institute's activities throughout the year. 
Particular stress is laid on the incorporation of home-produced foodstuffs 
in the dietary — e.g., eggs, fruit, vegetables and dairy products, which 
are derived from local sources, such as smallholdings and allotments. 
In some areas, special short courses have been arranged through the 
education authorities in the cooking of home products and their food 
values. 

The Scottish Federation has started as a national movement a " Guild 
of Housewives ", qualification for admission being the result of tests 
and examinations in cooking and knowledge of nutritional values. 

Nutrition Instruction in Schools (England and Wales). 

The instruction of the pupils attending the various types of schools 
in the principles and practice of rational nutrition is allied to the general 
instruction given in domestic subjects, including cookery. Domestic 



— 214 — 

instruction is given to about 90% of girls over 11 years of age in the 
public elementary schools. About 80% of the girls in grant-earning 
secondary schools receive some such instruction, chiefly between 12 
and 14 years of age. There is fairly extensive provision in evening classes, 
some 90,000 persons taking instruction in cookery and allied subjects. 

Nutrition Instruction in Schools (Scotland). 

Steps have been taken to extend and intensify the teaching of cookery 
and related subjects in Scottish schools. 

Practically every girl before leaving school at the age of 14 years has 
had a course of domestic science, and girls are encouraged to take cookery 
as one of the subjects for the Day School Certificate (Higher) before 
leaving at the end of 15 years. 

In 1933-34, there were 14,622 pupils (out of 93,535 on the roll) in 
the secondarj^ departments and 689 in the primary departments who 
received instruction in cookery in 1935, out of 251 secondary schools. 
Within recent years, an interesting development in many secondary 
schools has been the institution of intensive courses in domestic science, 
varying from two to twelve hours per week during that part of the last 
year of the secondary course following upon the leaving-certificate 
examination, for pupils who have not previously studied that subject 
during their secondary course. 

Of a total continuation class enrolment for the session 1934-35 of 
about 140,000, the number of students enrolled in cookery classes was 
I 7' 799- For the most part, the instruction given was of a plain, useful, 
everyday character, adapted to the needs of the students concerned. 
The purpose of these classes was to give instruction in courses of a 
shorter and more informal type than the regular cookery classes, and as 
far as possible under actual home conditions. In particular, the needs 
of the small cultivator, in whose diet vegetables necessarily play an 
important part, were considered in the conduct of these classes. 

Bulgaria. 

A Commission is attached to the Directorate-General of Public Health 
for the study of all questions relating to rational nutrition. The results 
of these studies will be published and the Commission's recommendations 
and conclusions will supply the guiding principles in carrying out the 
work undertaken by the Directorate-General of Public Health. 

The Directorate-General has expressed the opinion that a more general 
knowledge of nutrition questions would help to increase the consumption 
of the country's food products of vegetable and animal origin. It is 
onh/ necessary to mention the excellent results obtained b}^ propaganda 
for encouraging the consumption of grapes, as a result of which the 
consumption of fresh grapes has increased every year, as has production. 
Reference should be made to the very successful efforts of the services 
of the Ministry of Agriculture and State Domains, which does useful 



— 215 — 

work in the matter of nutrition through the medium of its own organs 
and of the institutes under its direction. 

Steps are taken to supplement education in the matter of health 
by means of lectures by doctors, wireless lectures, Press articles, popular 
scientific publications, posters, etc., one of the principal subjects being 
rational nutrition. 

Canada. 

In Canada, voluntary organisations, local welfare units and city health 
departments, in addition to provincial Departments of Agriculture and 
Federal departments concerned with the marketing of special products, 
such as fish, etc., all carry on a constant educational programme. These 
programmes, which are not closely co-ordinated, are based on professional 
and technical knowledge. 

Denmark. 

Advisory Nutrition Committee. 

In Denmark, the Public Health Department has, for long devoted 
attention to public nutrition, and in particular to the defects which 
have appeared in recent years. With a view to carrying on work in 
this respect on the best possible basis, the department arranged for 
the appointment, on December 13th, 1935, by the Ministry of the 
Interior, of a special expert nutrition committee to give advice to the 
department. This committee consists of Danish experts on nutrition 
and foodstuffs. 

Education. 

There are in various parts of the country a number of domestic science 
schools which are an outcome of the Danish People's High School 
(Folkshojskole) and are usually conducted on similar lines. In these 
schools, attention is also given to the nutrition aspect of domestic science. 
In addition, there are domestic science training colleges for women 
teachers, at which, naturally, instruction is also given in the science of 
nutrition. 

Lastly, a number of private associations and bodies (housewives' 
associations, domestic science associations, agricultural associations 
and smallholders' associations) have appointed special consulting experts 
in domestic science to advise the members of the associations on all 
questions relating to house-keeping, including the problem of nutrition. 

Research. 

Under Law No. 159 of May nth, 1935, a domestic science board has 
now been appointed to co-operate with organisations working on 
subjects of interest for domestic science from the point of view of 
nutrition, health and technical and economic questions. It also arranges 



2l6 

for research work either in co-operation with the institutions and 
organisations concerned or in its own laboratory, if such a laboratory 
is established. The board can also have research carried out at such 
other laboratories as it may select. The board is to publish the results 
of its work. 

The Public Health Department is represented on this board, especially 
for the purpose of looking after the board's public health work, which 
relates principally to nutrition problems. 

Estonia. 

In Estonia, the principles and practice of popular nutrition are 
disseminated through the medium of the following organisations : 

(i) Maternity and infant consultation centres, where mothers 
and educationists receive directions and instruction on the nutrition 
of infants and young children and there is a periodical inspection in 
order to watch over the development of children ; 

(2) The Estonian Health Museum, which organises exhibitions 
and conferences on health and popular nutrition ; 

(3) Universities for the people, women's organisations, domestic 
science schools, etc., which organise various popular courses and 
lectures on nutrition. 

Finland. 

The extent to which food bulks in the national economy is illustrated 
by the fact that the Finnish people spend on food more than half the 
national income, which is estimated at about 20,000 million marks. In 
the poorer families, food accounts for two-thirds of the household 
expenses, but, in the well-to-do families, for only one-third or a quarter. 
Calculated per consumption unit, food costs from 8 to 12 marks a day 
in workers' and peasants' families. For example, in those farms where 
accounts are kept, the figure was 7.83 marks a day in 1932, though it 
had been 10.88 marks a day in 1928. In the poorest working-class 
families, the average daily cost of food was 10.05 marks in 1928. 

Research. 

The Central Union of Agricultural Societies now has a Domestic 
Economy Committee, which is preparing for an extensive enquiry in 
thousands of families in order to ascertain what foodstuffs are given 
preference by the agricultural population and what is their value from 
the standpoints of physiology, cookery and prices. The Marttas societies 
have also made limited enquiries in this field, and the Agricultural 
Economy Research Bureau of the Department of Agriculture has 
investigated the farmers' diet in connection with its enquiries into the 
possibility of making agriculture pay. 



217 — 

Education. 

Instruction in the subject of human diet may be said to be better 
organised than scientific research into the same subject, for schools of 
domestic science and institutes of domestic economy have existed for 
some decades. In 1934, there were 42 of these establishments, with 278 
teachers and 1,826 pupils. The annual Government grant to these 
schools approaches seven million marks. Domestic economy is also 
taught in the People's Institutes, and to some extent in the secondary 
and elementary schools. In 1933, there were 57 People's Institutes, with 
2,026 pupils, of whom 1,950 were girls. In the same year, there were 216 
secondary schools for girls, with 26,236 pupils. The number of rural 
elementary schools was 5,368, with 227,946 pupils, of whom 111,883 
were girls. The urban elementary schools comprised 1,603 classes, with 
a total of 52,127 pupils, of whom 25,413 were girls. Lastly, there are now 
253 school medical officers and 163 school nurses, who also give advice 
on dietary questions. 

The institutions which teach domestic economy, however, reach only 
a small fraction of the total number of housewives ; greater importance 
attaches to the advice given on the subject by certain organisations. 
These include the Marttas Society, which has about 60,000 members, 
and the women's sections of the agricultural societies, which comprise 
nearly 40,000 " women agriculturists ", together with the women's 
organisations of the smallholders' societies, the communal domestic 
economy committees, and the Socialist women's domestic economy 
sections. Their work for the introduction of a rational diet is becoming 
more and more effective every year. 

So far as children are concerned, the Union of Agricultural Clubs has 
undertaken to give advice on diet. The Union now has nearly 25,000 
girl members. 

PopuL.\R Instruction. 

For nearly three years past, the Ministry of Agriculture has been 
devoting its attention to problems of popular nutrition ; it has printed, 
among other papers, instructions for advisers in domestic economy, 
and has published a cookery book for the use of the poorer families. 
Hundreds of thousands of marks have also been spent on stimulating 
the consumption of agricultural produce, especially the products of 
stockbreeding The grants to household economj^ and domestic science 
institutions have also been increased. 

All this, however, is not enough ; it is urgently necessary to undertake 
extensive action with a view to raising the standard of popular nutrition 
and directing the agricultural production of the country into channels 
which will, as far as may be possible, allow of an appropriate dietary 
based on home produce. 



— 2l8 — 

France. 

National Committee for the Study of Nutrition. 

The French Government has always taken a deep interest in social 
questions and had the welfare of its important agriculture at heart. 
It has therefore given close and unceasing attention to the various aspects 
of the problem of nutrition. 

Nevertheless, past and present research and action in this complex 
matter would seem to have been lacking in co-ordination — a fact which 
the depression has clearly brought out. 

It was to make good this defect, while at the same time complying 
with a suggestion of the ISIixed Committee on Nutrition, set up by the 
Council of the League of Nations, that a National Committee for 
the Study of Nutrition was set up on the intiative of M. Paul-Boncour, 
Minister of State and Permanent Delegate of France to the League of 
Nations. 

The National Committee for the Study of Nutrition held its first 
meeting on April 2nd, 1936, with M. Paul-Boncour in the chair, assisted 
by the Minister for Public Health, and M. Queuille, former Minister 
and representative of France on the Mixed Committee at Geneva. 

The Committee consists of representatives of the Prime Minister's 
Office, the Government departments concerned (Public Health, 
Agriculture, Commerce, National Education, War, Navy, Colonies, 
Labour, Finance, Foreign Affairs and Public Works) and of the chief 
scientific, agricultural, labour and commercial organisations, etc., 
specially concerned with the problem of nutrition. 

Taking the view that its task was twofold — to co-operate effectively 
with the League of Nations and to collect all such material as might be 
useful to the latter, and to lay down the main lines of a national 
nutrition policy in accordance with the present state of scientific 
knowledge, the possibilities of educating public opinion, economic 
considerations and the possibilities of effective supervision, the 
Committee entrusted the preparatory work in these various respects 
to four commissions : 

(i) A scientific commission, presided over bj- M. Andre Mayer, 
professor at the College de France (Alme. Randoin, laboratory director 
at the School of Advanced Studies, Rapporteur) ; 

(2) A commission on education and practical application, presided 
over by M. Luc, Director-General of Technical Education (M. Paul 
Devinat, Inspector-General, Rapporteur) ; 

(3) An economic commission, presided over by M. Jules Gautier 
(M. Vimeux, Secretary-General of the National Federation of 
Agricultural Mutual Benefit and Co-operative Societies, Rapporteur) ; 

(4) A commission on the inspection and control of foodstuffs, 
presided over by M. Serge Gas, Director of Public Health (Dr. Xavier 
Leclainche, Rapporteur). 



219 — 

Scientific Research. 

Existing Centres for Study and Scientific Research concerning Human 

Nutrition. 

The following centres have been in existence in France since 1922 : 

(i) A Nutrition Research Centre in Paris, which is under the 
authority of both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Scientific 
Nutritional Hygiene Society (recognised as being of public utility 
by the Law of July 7th, 1904). This centre comprises three research 
laboratories : 

(a) A nutritional physiology laboratory ; 

{b) A bio-energetics laboratory ; 

(c) An experimental station for research on the nutrition of 
live-stock ; 

(2) Research laboratories under the authority of the Ministry of 
National Education (faculties of science and medicine, College de 
France, School of Advanced Studies, Conservatoire national des Arts 
et M6tiers), in various university towns, more particularly Paris, 
Lyons, Marseilles and Strasburg. 

(3) A centre for instruction on the subjects of foodstuffs attached 
to the Conservatoire national des Arts et Metiers. 

Proposals and Desiderata for the Development of Studies and Scientific 
Research regarding Human Nutrition. 

Although for the purpose of surveys and enquiries regarding nutrition 
the laboratories specialising in nutritional research have always kept 
in touch with the Academy of Medicine — which since November 1935 
has been responsible for collecting the opinions of technical experts 
interested in the various aspects of the nutrition problem — the researches 
of all these laboratories have hitherto been independently conducted. 

Proposals are at present under consideration in France for the creation 
of a new organisation to make use of all the existing possibilities— that 
is to say, to group the laboratories in question, co-ordinate their efforts 
and supply them with funds, while at the same time naturally leaving 
each of them in enjoyment of the independence of mind which is necessary 
for scientific research. 

Considered as a whole, the new organisation would represent a National 
Institute of Nutritional Hygiene, to which would be directly attached : 

(i) A national centre for research and advanced teaching with 
regard to rational nutrition, which would be formed by the extension 
of the present Research Centre ; 

(2) The various laboratories working under the Ministry of 
National Education. 



220 

This organisation would be able to undertake the study of all scientific 
questions relating to nutrition problems in France and her colonies. 

The creation of such a national centre would, moreover, be of the 
greatest value in ensuring the co-ordination of the various forms of 
instruction in the science of nutrition. 

Education and Popular Instruction. 

Application of the Results obtained by Scientific Research with a View 
to Advanced Instruction on Nutrition. 

I. There are at present two institutions in France specialising in 
advanced nutrition studies : the Foodstuffs Centre of the Conservatoire 
national des Arts et Metiers and the Scientific Nutritional Hygiene 
Society. 

(a) Foodstuffs Centre of the Conservatoire national des Arts et Metiers. 

In 1932, a Foodstuffs Centre was set up at the Conservatoire national 
des Arts et Metiers by agreement between the latter and the Union of 
Wholesale Provision Dealers' Societies. The purposes of this centre 
are : 

(i) To set on foot investigations of all kinds regarding foodstuffs, 
their origin, physical and chemical characteristics, composition, 
industrial uses and place in normal and therapeutic diets ; the centre 
possesses a laboratory specially equipped for such work ; 

(2) To make known the results obtained through such research by 
a series of lectures. 

Thus interpreted, the teaching given appears as the extension of 
certain courses already given at the Conservatoire — i.e., the courses in 
agriculture and agricultural production, mineral chemistry, agricultural 
and biological chemistry and industrial chemistry. At the request, 
however, both of the students themselves and of the trade associations, 
the Conservatoire has decided to introduce as a preliminary to the session 
proper, a course of instruction designed to prepare students for the 
specialised studies which are to follow. 

The lecturers are chosen from among the scientific authorities most 
highly qualified in matters of rational nutrition. 

The courses are public and are, in principle, intended for members 
of the staffs of provision and catering firms. 

Half of those attending the courses are drawn, however, from other 
circles and include : students at the universities and schools of higher 
studies, B.A.'s, pharmacists, agricultural engineers, veterinary surgeons, 
chemical engineers, etc. 

A certificate is already awarded to those who have regularly attended 
the courses and successfuUv passed the final examination. 



221 

(b) Scientific Nutritional Hygiene Society. 

Like the Foodstuffs Centre, tliis society, which was founded in 1904 
and declared to be of public utility, is intended for both the study and 
teaching of the sciences in their application to nutrition. For this 
purpose, it organises theoretical courses and, unlike the Foodstuffs Centre, 
practical classes for both normal and dietetic cookery. 

The courses consist of ninety-eight hours of instruction annually and 
pupils are charged a fee. These courses are followed each year by some 
twenty pupils of various origins, half of whom belong to the Higher 
Normal School of Technical Education (Science-Domestic Economy 
Department). 

The Scientific Nutritional Hygiene Society possesses well-equipped 
laboratories, which can also be used for teaching purposes. 

2. The Ministry of Agriculture also evinces keen interest in the 
dissemination of knowledge so closely concerning the country's 
agricultural economy. It subsidises the Scientific Nutritional Hygiene 
Society, which is under its patronage. 

Even though they do not form the subject of special courses, questions 
of nutrition are dealt with in the schools of advanced studies under the 
Ministry of Agriculture, and more particularly at the National Agronomic 
Institute, the National Schools of Agriculture (microbiology, zootechnics, 
agricultural technology, fruit nutrition and aquiculture) at the National 
School of Agriculture, Versailles (the cultivation of fruit trees) and at 
the National School of National Industries, Douai (sugar production, 
brewing and distilling). 

3. In the last place, it may be pointed out that the Ministries for 
War and the Navy have for their own purposes instituted courses of 
advanced instruction in nutrition at the higher supply service (Army) 
and Commissariat (Navy) Schools and at the practical training-schools 
of the army and naval health services. 

4. In conclusion, it may be said that, at the present time, properly 
organised advanced teaching on nutrition does not exist in France. 

The Foodstuffs Centre and the Scientific Nutritional Hygiene Society, 
though unconnected with each other, have identical aims. The pupils 
attending their courses are both heterogeneous in origin and too few 
in number. 

The public authorities are at present engaged in an attempt to improve 
the teaching of nutritional hygiene ; to ensure greater coherence between 
the establishments controlled by the Department of National Education ; 
to provide stricter supervision of the instruction given ; to work out 
schemes for systematic advanced teaching of nutrition under the 
Directorate-General of Technical Education, which is the department 
most interested in its development ; to create and organise the profession 
of dietetician ; and, in the last place, to ensure by administrative action 



and the necessary publicity that the courses shall benefit a wider public 
and one more likely to derive advantage therefrom. 

At the same time, the authorities are anxious to encourage in every 
way the assistance given by outside bodies, such as the trade 
organisations and centres of scientific research. 



'&' 



Dissemination of Information on Nutrition. 

3. The rules of scientific nutrition cannot be applied unless 
appropriate instruction is given, in the first place, to the housewives 
of to-day and to-morrow, and, in the second place, to the various 
categories of persons responsible for collective catering. 

The dissemination of such knowledge, therefore, requires the 
organisation of instruction in household management and also of 
technical instruction. 

Instruction in Household Management. 

6. Instruction in household management is designed to supply 
future housewives with the theoretical and practical knowledge 
necessary to enable them to perform their various home duties. 

Such instruction is given in a practical form both by the State and by 
private organisations. 

Public Education. 

7. State instruction in household management is at present given in 
the educational establishments under the authority of the Department 
of Elementary Education, the Department of Secondary Education, 
the Ministry of Agriculture and the Directorate-General of Technical 
Education. 

(a) Elementary Education. — 8. The Directorate of Elementary 
Education has always been aware of the importance of domestic economy 
teaching in the establishments under its control. The instructions of 
June 2oth, 1923, regarding the new syllabus of studies for elementary 
schools include the following : 

" In girls' schools instruction in household management should 
occupy an important place. By combining the various classes included 
in the syllabus, it is possible to devote one half-day each week to the 
teaching of household management and kindred subjects." 

Or again : 

" School-mistresses are aware how important it is for the good of 
France that its children should be preserved to it, intelligently looked 
alter, safeguarded and protected against disease. They should therefore 
devote themselves wholeheartedly to the education of those who will 
be the mothers of the future." 



— 223 — 

Such teaching is of an essentially practical character, and theory- 
is only included to explain practice, or to imbue the girls with love for 
the home and for the modest and yet noble domestic tasks which they 
will be called upon to perform. 

Similar aims are evident in the syllabus of the higher elementary 
schools and teachers' training schools. 

9. This insistence upon really practical domestic economy instruction 
has grown more pronounced in the last few years. In the large towns, 
and particularly in the Department of the Seine, suitably equipped 
classrooms under specially qualified mistresses have been opened. 

In the rural areas, the Department of Elementary Education has 
made an attempt, in conjunction with the Ministry of Agriculture, to 
develop continuation courses in household management, and in these 
classes teaching on nutrition has come to occupy a very important 
place. The co-operation of the Department of Technical Education 
under the Decree of June 1934 makes it possible to carry on such 
instruction in the continuation classes. 

10. The extension of the school age would have an excellent effect 
upon the development of training in household management, which 
might then be introduced throughout the country. 

Although the children are too young for their mistresses to inculcate 
any but the very simplest ideas, at least in the elementary schools, 
the spreading of practical knowledge, even in the most modest homes, 
could not in the long run fail to exert an excellent influence on the 
methods of housewives. 

In this connection, the elementary schools — even without the 
specialisation which could scarcely be expected of them — can make a 
vital contribution to the improvement of public health, particularly 
in the matter of nutrition. 

(b) Secondary Education. — 11. Domestic economy is not included 
in the secondary-school syllabus. Nevertheless, as the result of local 
initiative, optional classes in cookery and household management 
have been organised in certain of the girls' lycees. 

(c) Agricultural Instruction. — 12. Domestic agricultural training 
is at present given either in the fixed or travelling schools of rural 
housekeeping or in temporary classes, with a short term of instruction 
in special subjects, such as domestic economy and cookery. Nutrition 
teaching occupies an important place in the syllabuses of all such 
classes. 

In schools of rural housekeeping, the syllabus generally followed 
is that of the National School at Coetlogon, after adaptation to the 
social background and average intelligence of the pupils. 

Such instruction is of an essentially practical nature ; the pupils 
take their midday meal in common and, in the boarding establishments, 
the evening meal also. They prepare their meals themselves under the 



— 224 

supervision of the instructor, after studying its composition and deciding 
upon the bill of fare. They then calculate the cost, which is shared 
among them. 

In the continuation courses in rural housekeeping given by women 
teachers holding the certificate in rural housekeeping awarded by the 
Ministry of Agriculture, instruction on nutrition is given in accordance 
with a general syllabus drawn up by the Minister for Agriculture. 
In these classes, the midday meal is taken in school whenever possible ; 
it is prepared by the pupils, who share the cost. 

Remarkable results have been obtained in certain rural areas by the 
travelling schools of domestic science, which, unquestionably, have 
already contributed to the improvement of local habits in the matter 
of nutrition. 

(d) Technical Education. — 13. Since 1920, and particularly 
since 1925, when the scheme for the extension of technical education 
was first introduced, the Directorate-General of Technical Education 
has always given training in household management its closest attention. 

It has planned such training on the most comprehensive lines, 
considering it as an indispensable means of reconciling the home duties 
of women with their outside work and also, through instruction in 
mothercraft and well-balanced nutrition, as a means of maintaining 
and improving the health of the race. 

14. At the end of the war, domestic economy teaching was almost 
unknown in France, but its introduction was brought about almost 
spontaneously through the reconstruction of the devastated areas. 
During the war, the distribution of food to the inhabitants of the occupied 
departments had necessitated their organisation, and this was continued 
for the purposes of reconstruction. For the permanent organisation 
of such instruction, however, guidance had to be sought abroad, more 
particularly in Belgium and Switzerland, and from the material collected 
it was possible to perceive along what lines such instruction should be 
organised. Provisional syllabuses were drawn up and tested by 
experience. The teaching staffs made use of the data thus collected, 
and, after a period of experiment, worked out the essential principles 
of teaching household management as given to-day. 

An " Educational Week ", organised in connection with the Domestic 
Arts Exhibition in 1927, made it possible to collate the results of this 
initial period, to deduce a body of general principles and thus to codify, 
as it were, the new domestic science teaching. Booklets were issued for 
the guidance of teachers in the organisation and management of their 
classes. 

15. The programme thus drawn up in the light of experience includes 
every aspect of " housekeeping " and questions of nutrition are given 
an important place. It combines practical work with theory and each 
practical exercise is preceded by a short lesson. 



225 — 

The teachers endeavour to avoid curtailing or stultifying such teaching 
and to prevent its coming to consist of no more than a few commonplace 
recipes or falling to the level of little girls' play. Their aim is to see 
that it is not confined to the narrow limits of the school-building, but 
that, on the contrary, emphasis is laid upon its practical importance, 
its reality, its moral and social value. To make it accessible to all and 
to facilitate its introduction into all types of home, such teaching is 
given in the most varied forms, according to the age, occupation, means, 
general education and mode of life of the persons for whom it is intended. 

The minimum age of pupils is 14 and the programme of work is both 
rational and carefully adapted to the pupils' capacity. 

16. For the application of this programme of teaching, the 
Directorate-General of Technical Education has introduced three types 
of organisation. Training in household management is thus provided, 
not merely for school pupils, but also for working and peasant women, 
girls and young women of the middle-classes. 

(a) The first type consists of practical schools for girls. 

Apart from the schools already in existence, new schools specially 
intended for instruction in household management have been opened 
and model domestic training organisations with special classrooms 
with the necessary equipment have been set up in as many as possible 
of the public technical schools. The courses are open, not merely 
to pupils of the schools, but also to outside pupils. Any body wishing 
to organise instruction in household management may there obtain 
the necessary information. 

(6) In all the communes where women's occupational courses 
are already in existence, the Directorate-General of Technical 
Instruction, in agreement with the municipal authorities, has studied 
and carried out the organisation of classes for the benefit of outside 
pupils, as well as of the regular pupils of the schools. 

It has helped with the installation of special equipment or even 
with the erection of genuine schools of household management, open 
to pupils of all schools without discrimination. 

(c) It was from the outset apparent that, in order to obtain 
conclusive results, an attempt must be made to place the pupils in 
conditions approximating as closely as possible to everyday life. 

With a view to giving the most practical teaching possible, the 
Directorate-General of Technical Education decided to build model 
houses identical with the workmen's dwellings built in the neighbour- 
hood. Five of these model houses are already in use. 

17. The result of these efforts may be summarised as follows : 

At the present day, teaching in household management in France is 
given in all the girls' practical schools of commerce and industry, and. 



— 226 

in Paris, in all the municipal vocational schools. In addition, there is 
a private household management school under the Department of 
Technical Education, the pupils of which may obtain scholarships from 
the authorities. 

The importance of the various schools of household management 
and the progress made since 1927 may be judged from the following 
table : 



Number of classes 
Number of pupils 



1927 


1935 


27 


55 


1.434 


5.465 



The State's efforts in the course of the last ten years to organise 
genuine domestic economy teaching is proof of the great benefits to be 
derived from this form of education. The training of the housewife, 
the maintenance of the unity of the family, the protection of the national 
stock against alcoholism and infantile mortality — such are the valuable 
results of this new departure. 

18. There exists therefore in France an effective means of 
disseminating among members of the public knowledge regarding 
rational nutrition. In practice, it is sufficient to give schoolteachers 
general instruction in accordance with the most recent scientific data 
to secure the wide dissemination of genuinely useful knowledge. 

The way has been prepared, the system perfected, and methods well 
tried by experience, so that all that is now required is a more definite 
policy, and the appropriation of more ample funds to give the work 
new impetus. 

This would all be easier if the activities of the authorities at present 
concerned in the development of domestic economy teaching in France 
were more effectively co-ordinated. 

The creation of a body to co-ordinate and supervise the various 
forms and syllabuses of domestic economy teaching is, moreover, under 
consideration. Such a body would be especially well qualified for 
promoting the dissemination of methods of rational nutrition among 
the general public. 



Private Education. 

19. Apart from official action, the Directorate-General of Technical 
Education has endeavoured to promote the foundation of schools of 
household management by occupational organisations. To this end, the 
Permanent Commission of the Higher Technical Education Council 
has authorised the appropriation of sums equivalent to 10% of the 
amount of the fees due from all apprentices taking household 
management courses. 



227 

The progress achieved as the result of this measure was, in the first 
place, inconsiderable ; State propaganda in the form of model courses, 
lectures and the constant collection of up-to-date material was 
nevertheless bound to bear fruit. 

Such propaganda was actively supported by the associations specially 
created for the purpose of assisting the development of this new type 
of education. The French Federation for Domestic Economy Teaching 
contributed to the work, and even endeavoured to extend it to the 
French colonies. 

Bodies of all kinds have gradually but systematically brought into 
being organisations, the numbers and efficiency of which are constantly 
increasing. 

20. Among the more important, we may mention the activities 
of the mining companies. All the more important companies in the 
central areas of France have set up courses on household management. 
Unfortunately, it is difficult to give exact particulars of the number 
of pupils and the results obtained. 

In the mines of the Pas de Calais, there are at present sixteen centres 
for the teaching of household management, attended by 978 girls or 
young women. 

The railway companies have also made valuable efforts in the same 
direction. The P.L.M. Company has organised four domestic economy 
centres. It subsidises the Family Domestic Training Office, which 
organises courses on household management for the wives and daughters 
of railway employees in all the larger towns along the company's lines. 

The State Railway Company has founed fourteen centres of the same 
kind for the daughters of the railway employees ; it has also organised 
special courses for adults and married women. 

The P.O. -Midi Company and the Northern Company have created 
fifteen courses with 500 pupils and twenty-two courses with 330 pupils 
respectively. 

In this connection, it should be mentioned that the Caisse de 
Compensation of the Paris region has organised more than 100 courses, 
followed by 1,700 pupils, and that the Office familial menager has also 
the same number of pupils. 

21. The total amount represented by the exemptions from the 
a.pprenticeship tax granted to finance classes on household management 
is between i and i^ million francs, not inclusive of the Department of 
the Seine. 

Many strenuous attempts have therefore already been made to organise 
private classes in household management. 

Promoted in general by the State, they have all been successful, thanks 
to its example and support. 

22. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that the geographical 
distribution of these centres is not governed by any general plan, and 
certain areas are still entirely unprovided for. 



— 228 



Furthermore, the public authorities should be empowered to establish 
the necessary supervision over such private classes, so that training in 
household management may be kept up to its present level of efficiency. 

Here, too, co-ordination must be introduced, though without 
interfering with private initiative. 



Training of Teachers. 

23. The practical value of nutrition teaching in PYance depends upon 
the training of the instructors. 

In the absence of a policy based upon scientific data and guiding 
principles common to all grades of education, the training of instructors 
must at present be admitted to be somewhat unequal. 

(i) Elementary Education. — 24. The elementary-school teachers are 
trained in the teachers' training colleges. In the latter, the three years' 
syllabus includes one hour's instruction in domestic economy, comprising 
not less than twenty lessons of one hour each of instruction in nutritional 
hygiene (types of water, drinks, food, puericulture). Four hours a week 
are spent on household work during each of the three years of the course. 

It should be noted that the official instructions emphasise the 
importance to be attached to these subjects. It may be added that 
specially qualified teachers are trained at the National School at 
Coetlogon, and at the Agricultural Institute, Toulouse. Furthermore, 
the scheme for the reform of the training colleges at present under 
consideration provides that much more time shall be devoted in the 
time-table and syllabus to the training in domestic economy of future 
schoolteachers. 

(2) Rural Education. — 25. The staff responsible for instruction in 
rural housekeeping is recruited from former certificated pupils of the 
National School of Agriculture for Girls and the Higher Training 
Department for Domestic and Agricultural Teaching at Coetlogon, 
near Rennes. At the Coetlogon School, there is a special Department 
of Nutrition and Cookery. The main heads of the syllabus of this 
department are to be found in the annex. 

(3) Technical Education. — 26. The teaching staff of the household 
management schools under the Department of Technical Education 
is trained at the Vocational School at Limoges, which trains teachers 
for the domestic science schools of the city of Paris ; at the Municipal 
Domestic Science School in the rue Belleyme, where staff is trained for 
the same schools ; at the National Vocational School, Poligny, and at 
the Department of Technical Education's Higher Training School. 

As an example, we may point out that the pupils of the latter school 
re selected and trained as follows : 



229 ■ 

Entrance to the school is by competitive examination, and all 
candidates are required to hold either the higher elementary certificate, 
the baccalaureat, or the secondary leaving certificate. Apart from studies 
designed to improve their general education, their first year at the school 
includes a period of two weeks at the Porchefontaine-Versailles Crdche, 
and they attend classes and lectures at the Scientific Nutritional 
Hygiene Society. The second year includes four hours weekly of 
instruction in domestic science, with practical work in one of the city 
of Paris vocational schools. 

It should be noted that teaching posts at the practical schools of 
commerce and industry can only be obtained by teachers having 
followed the above course of training and in possession of the teaching 
diploma (science, domestic subjects section). The former pupils of the 
Limoges Vocational School or the Municipal Domestic Science School 
in the rue Belleyme are only eligible for posts in the city of Paris schools 
or in private establishments. 

(4) Private Education. — 27. The teachers responsible for household 
management teaching in private schools possess the most various 
qualification, and, as their classes are not under State supervision, 
it is impossible to give any reliable account of their previous training. 

28. It is highly regrettable that the training of future teachers 
should be so very different, even when their pupils are likely to be of the 
same standard of intelligence. The best means of changing this state 
of affairs would be the drawing-up of a syllabus by the Directorate- 
General of Technical Education and the other authorities concerned in 
conjunction with the research institutes and higher educational 
authorities. This syllabus should be compulsory for all teachers of 
domestic subjects. It should lead up to a diploma and be supplemented 
by practical work whenever possible. 

Proposals to this effect are at present under consideration. They 
may perhaps be put into effect in connection with the reform of higher 
nutritional studies referred to above. 



Vocational Training. 

29. Vocational training, at least within the scope of the present 
report, has a number of highly different aspects. 

In the first place, the Department of Technical Education has set up 
a special school for hotel-keeping, at which not only the administrative 
staffs, but also chefs and their assistants are trained. 

Furthermore, the army and naval authorities who are responsible 
for the feeding of soldiers and sailors have long been careful to instruct 
officers in their duties in this respect and to train the necessary specialised 
cooks. 



— 230 — 

It is these two cases which furnish the best example of the methods 
of vocational training in the matter of nutrition which are, or at least 
would be, widely applied in other quarters also. • 

Training in Hotel-keeping. 

30. The Central Board for Technical Instruction has opened practical 
schools for hotel-keeping in the districts which derive a large proportion 
of their income from tourists. 

The chief concern of the teachers here is not to impart the rules of 
systematic, normal or dietetic nutrition, but rather to train pupils for 
carrying out the professional duties of hotel-keeping, to make them, when 
they leave school, useful assistants who will latter become good managers. 

In these practical schools, the teaching has the same features as in all 
public technical training schools. It is devised to give the pupils both a 
general education and professional training. It is based on the 
experimental method and keeps in permanent touch with the profession. 
During the holidays, the pupils of the school work as paid apprentices in 
the big health resorts, watering-places or climatic stations. 

The course of study lasts for three years and terminates with an 
examination conferring the " Brevet d'Enseignement Hotelier ", first 
class. 

A second-class " Brevet " may also be subsequently conferred under 
certain circumstances. 

31. The training given is thus a sound one. At the same time, 
it has to be admitted that theoretical instruction in French, arithmetic, 
tourist and hotel geography, modern languages and political economy, 
does not leave sufificient room for the teaching of the science of nutrition. 

Though some of the practical training is concerned with cooking, 
its purpose would seem to be to teach the pupils to prepare certain dishes 
rather than to impart the principles of rational nutrition. 

The dissemination of these principles by means of technical training 
in hotel-keeping would therefore entail a change in the curriculum. 

The Central Board for Technical Instruction is prepared to take this 
step. It had already intended, in organising the new Paris school for 
hotel-keeping, to allow for the interest at present taken in dietetics. 

It is certainly essential for France, a country of health resorts, to be 
able in the future to give the persons visiting its various health resorts 
as sound guarantees as other countries for the observance of the diets 
prescribed by doctors. A great effort will have to be made in this 
direction to bring back to France visitors who have been rendered more 
exacting by the attention paid to them elsewhere. 



1 .At the request of the Minister of National Education, the Minister of Public Health set up, by a Decree 
dated June 3rd, 1934, a special commission to study the progress made in the matter of hygiene in the public 
secondary educational establishments. 

This commission drew up rules subsequently communicated to the heads of all such establishments. 

The inspectors-general of secondary education are responsible for their strict application. 



— 231 — 

It should not, however, be forgotten that, while training in hotel- 
keeping may, owing to the professional quality of its pupils, be an 
excellent means of disseminating knowledge of the methods of nutritional 
hygiene, and though the hotel providing special diets must occupy 
a larger place in the profession, the average hotel-keeper will always have 
to cater for the wishes and tastes of his customers. 



Army. . 

32. One of the duties of the Army Supply Service is to control and 
administer the supplies department. It has always been anxious to 
give the rank and file the benefit of the scientific progress made in the 
hygiene of food within the limits, of course, of the funds available. 
It has therefore made a point of carrying out research into the nutrition 
of the troops, teaching officers of the Supply Service and medical and 
regimental officers the essential principles of a healthy, rational and 
palatable dietary, of selecting and training cooks, organising competent 
and effective supervision of the quality of foodstuffs and the value of the 
bills of fare compiled by the officers in charge of the commissariat. 

This brief survey need not do more than indicate the measures taken 
by the National Defence Department to give both officers and men in 
charge of the commissariat the knowledge necessary for the rational 
feeding of the troops. 

(a) Instruction given to Officers. — 33. This instruction is given : 

(i) At the Higher Army Supply Service School ; 

(2) At the Training School of the Army Medical Service ; 

(3) In military colleges. 

The training given at the Higher Supply Service School is intended for 
captains admitted to the school by examination who, on graduating, are 
drafted to the Supply Officers Corps. 

The study of foodstuffs is one of the chief subjects in the curriculum. 
Two Army Supply Service officers qualified by reason of their duties 
at the General Inspectorate of Supplies are responsible for the training 
of pupils. Their teaching is supplemented by a lecture on preserved 
meat given by the Army Veterinary Surgeon, Director of the Laboratory 
for Research and Inspection of Army Tinned Foods, and by visits paid 
to manufacturing concerns. 

The programme also includes lessons on the theory of nutrition and 
foodstuffs. At present it comprises six lectures and two practical lessons 
on hygiene and energetics. 

To this training, given under the auspices of the General Inspectorate 
of Supplies, should be added that given by the Director of the Tinned 
Food Research Laboratory to veterinary lieutenants attached to factories 
producing tinned meat for the army. 



— 232 — 

34- At the Training School of the Army Medical Service (Val-de- 
Grace), the physiological principles of nutrition and their application 
to the army play a leading part in the nutrition courses given to 
lieutenants in the Army Medical and Army Pharmaceutical Service in 
view of their duties as technical advisers to the Army Command. 

During their year of training at the Army Medical Service Training 
School, army pharmacists are given practical lessons daily in the 
analysis of foodstuffs. 

Lastly, as bills of fare have to be compiled by the officers commanding 
units, it is necessary for regimental officers to know, if not the physiology 
and chemistry of nutrition, at any rate the practical conclusions to which 
these sciences lead. These conclusions are expounded during the course 
on army hygiene given in military colleges. 

(b) Training of Cooks. — 35. Army cooks are trained as follows : 
in each command area the General commanding the area organises a 
cookery training course. 

The course lasts for three months and the training is essentially 
practical. The lessons are given by the head cook of a corps, under the 
supervision of a specially qualified officer. 

Verbal instruction includes four lectures by the officer and two by 
an army veterinary surgeon. 

At the end of the course, the pupils are classified, on the basis of an 
examination, as cooks or assistant cooks. 

Since 1909, there has been in existence a " Handbook of Garrison 
Military Cookery". This handbook, which has been repeatedly brought 
up to date, includes about 200 recipes. Each recipe is set out in quantities 
sufficient for 100 men. 

Navy . 

36. As in the army, the naval authorities are faced with two tasks : 

(t) To train officers to supervise and run messes ; 

(n) To instruct the staff responsible for preparing meals. 

(a) Training of Officers. — 37. Since to the Paymaster generally 
falls the important task of running the mess, the School of Paymasters 
gives its pupils special training on this subject. 

They are given instruction in dietetics and how to recognise the 
suitability of foodstuffs for human consumption. They work for various 
periods in the victualling services and are also shown the practical tests 
to which all foodstuffs are subjected. 

Naval officers who may have to run messes are also given this training, 
both at the " Ecole Superieure de la Marine " and in the training-ships. 

Naval surgeons attend special courses on nutritional hygiene at the 
Bordeau.x Faculty of Medicine, and the " Ecole Principale " of the 
Medical Service. 

At the " Ecole d'application " at Toulon they also attend a course of 
naval hygiene, several lessons of which are devoted to nutrition questions. 



— 233 — 

These students also visit the slaughter-houses and victualling services. 

Naval pharmaceutical chemists are trained at the Bordeaux Faculty 
of Medicine, and receive special instruction in the analysis of foodstuffs, 
in the form of lectures and practical work organised by the " Ecole 
Principale " of the medical service. 

Moreover, at the Toulon " Ecole d 'application ", pharmaceutical 
chemists study for a period in the foodstuffs laboratory, attend lectures 
and practical demonstrations and participate, like naval surgeons, in 
instructional visits. 

(b) Training of Cooks. — 38. Since 1926, cooks have been recruited 
in the navy among men who have already had experience, and who, after 
passing a test, receive a cook's certificate, or among conscripts or 
volunteers who, after suitable training, obtain the same certificate. 

39. Though some knowledge of rational nutrition is indispensable 
among the officers responsible for management, there is probably little 
utility in imparting such knowledge to those who have to deal with the 
actual cooking. 

The latter will always have to act on instructions received from their 
superiors. The training of these superiors is therefore the most important 
point. In the case of both hotels and restaurants, the managers are those 
who must be trained in the first place, if sound dietetical principles are to 
be popularised. This is the lesson we can learn from the policy followed 
by the army and navy. 

40. Military and naval experience leads to the belief that the public 
authorities should insist on an equally thorough theoretical and practical 
training for all officials responsible in any way for the feeding of children 
or adults : bursars of public schools, lycees and boarding-schools, 
directors or managers of hospitals, hostels, etc. 

All these persons should be obliged to follow a course of studies and 
obtain a certificate similar to that which, it is proposed, all staff engaged 
in teaching domestic science must in future possess. 

If this common-sense step were taken, a reform in the more advanced 
teaching of dietetics would become all the more reasonable and necessary. 



Italy. 

Commission for the Study of Nutritional Problems. 

The most far-reaching and thorough investigation into nutrition is 
that made on the initiative of the National Research Council (a public 
institution serving as a supreme technical council of the State), which 
set up a special commission, instructed to study nutritional problems 
from both the experimental and social standpoints. His Excellency 
Filippo Bottazzi, Academician of Italy, Director of the Institute of 
Physiology in the University of Naples, is Chairman of the Commission. 



— 234 — 

This Commission, which set to work in 1927, first ascertained what 
progress had been made in Italy in nutritional studies and then outlined 
a plan for research into these developments with a view to remedying 
any deficiencies. 

Testing the Standard of Nutrition by the Public Authorities. 

This work, to which the Directorate-General of Public Health has 
contributed both directly and indirectly, was entrusted more especially 
to a number of other public and private bodies, in co-operation with one 
another and with the Central Statistical Institute and various local 
institutions. For the most part, it was carried out through the 
complicated network of political and corporative bodies which are 
concerned with the question of nutrition from the standpoint of either 
production or consumption. 

Some signs or results of good or bad nutrition are brought out in 
statistics. Here, by means of its tables, the Central Statistical Institute 
supplies the authorities with proof either of the actual facts or of the 
extent to which the measures they have taken have been effective. Thus, 
the statistics show that both the general and special death rates for some 
of the diseases more particularly attributable to under-nourishment or 
malnutrition, such as pellagra or rickets, have fallen considerably, 
especially during the last twenty-five years. Similarly, the tables showing 
the expectation of death of children up to 5 years of age confirm that 
progress has been made in infant welfare, particularly in the matter of 
nutrition. 

Several enquiries had been made since the constitution of the Kingdom 
of Italy into the standard of nutrition of the Italian people, but the 
methods employed were not giving reliable results. The Commission 
for the Study of Nutritional Problems, in co-operation with physiologists, 
hygienists and economists, therefore decided to undertake an extensive 
survey of the dietary of the different classes of the population in Italy 
by means of the family booklet method, which, despite the many 
criticisms levelled at it, is still the method most likely to produce 
satisfactory results. 

1929 Enquiry. 

The enquiry was made by professors of physiology in the university, 
who were able to obtain the help of their assistants and of some of the 
students in the Faculty of Medicine. Before the survey was begun, very 
thorough preparations were made and the political organisations of the 
regime (Federal Secretaries, Political Secretaries of the Fighting Fascisti), 
the economic syndical organisations (especially the confederations of 
industrial and agricultural workers and the Employers' Confederation), 
doctors and health officers, primary-school teachers and parish priests 
were invited to assist. 



— 235 — 

The enquiry lasted one month, from April to May 1929. During this 
time, the local representatives paid visits from time to time to the 
families to whom the booklets had been issued. For the rest, assistance 
was given and supervision exercised daily by the doctors and health 
officers, primary-school teachers and students of the Faculty of Medicine. 
In spite of these measures, about 50% of the booklets were not kept 
correctly and could not be used. The remainder, however, give a fairly 
accurate picture of the nutrition of the different classes in Italy in 1929. 
The data relating to this enquiry were published in the " Monographs 
on the Study of Nutritional Problems ", a review issued by the National 
Research Council, the purpose of which is explained by its title. Owing 
to its wide circulation among competent persons, it is of valuable 
assistance in improving nutrition in the country. 

Enquiry into Bread-making in Sardinia. 

A specially important factor in Italian nutrition is the quality of the 
cereals from which bread is made. In order to obtain accurate information 
on this matter, the Commission for the Study of Nutritional Problems 
decided, in 1929, to make a special enquiry into the making of bread, 
and selected Sardinia as a field for research. The results showed of 
what cereals bread is usually made and what kinds of bread are most 
popular. It was also found that leguminous flour, chestnuts, etc., were 
sometimes added to cereal flour in making wheaten bread. The 
Commission thought it advisable to extend the Sardinian enquiry to 
the rest of the country. The information collected is being sifted and 
co-ordinated. 

Enquiry in the Province of Littoria. 

The 1929 enquiry served the Commission for the Study of Nutritional 
Problems as a guide for future research. It has decided, as a result of 
the lessons learnt from this experiment, to make various changes in 
the family booklet hitherto in use. A new booklet has therefore been 
prepared for the enquiry into nutrition which will shortly be made in 
the Province of Littoria in order to ascertain the quantity and quality 
of the diet of the population which immigrated from various Italian 
provinces, and to follow the changes brought about in the dietary customs 
of each as a result of the influence of persons with different customs and 
of the special agricultural conditions of the area. 

Since the object of this research is mainly biological, the enquiry 
into nutrition must be accompanied by an anthropological investigation 
if it is to be really useful. For this reason, the Commission intends to 
make an anthropographical survey of the whole population in the 
Province of Littoria. This investigation will be carried out by a special 
staff under Professor Sergio Sergi, Director of the Anthropological 
Institute of the University of Rome. 



236 



Enquiry at Rhodes and elsewhere. 

In 1933, a special enquiry into nutrition was made throughout the 
Island of Rhodes by means of a special questionnaire relating to the 
kind of food generally consumed in the island. The results of this 
enquiry are being sifted and co-ordinated. 

A nutritional and anthropological enquiry is being carried out in 
certain parts of Sardinia to ascertain in what way the physical 
characteristics of the inhabitants (height, constitution) have been 
influenced by dietary practices. 



Enquiry from the Social Point of View. 

While the investigations referred to above serve to ascertain the 
present standard of nutrition in order to raise it if necessary, economic 
and social surveys serve to show whether for some reason or other such 
conditions as are present are likely to prevent this standard from being 
maintained or raised. That is the object of the observations made by 
the Central Statistical Institute on the basis of the data supplied by the 
corporative and other bodies on the cost of living, price-levels and, 
consequently, the wage-curve. 

In recent years (the last six years) real wages in industry have increased 
by 8.83%, while there has been very little change in agricultural wages. 

Generally speaking, there has been a considerable improvement in the 
average standard of nutrition of town-dwellers, particularly workers, in 
recent years. This is because, under the corporative organisation, the 
working-classes can bring more influence to bear on the economic and 
social policy of the Government in fixing wages, controlling prices and 
adopting social measures. 

Thus, the economic and financial policy of the regime has had 
considerable influence on the national food budgets, because the 
moderating influence brought to bear on prices, especially through the 
competent organs of the Fascist Party from 1929 to 1934, has helped 
to lower the cost of living. As a matter of fact, the national index numbers 
for the cost of living as a whole have fallen sharply, and the fall is even 
more pronounced if the national index of food prices is taken by itself. 

National Index Number for the Cost of Living. 

Year 

1929 

1930 

I931 

1932 

1933 

1934 



General 


Food 


93-88 


95-97 


90.71 


90.60 


81.91 


79.10 


78.05 


74.10 


74-71 


70.17 


70.89 


66.94 



— 237 — 

Popular Instruction. 

The question of national nutrition is one of those which is engaging 
the closest attention of the Government. Side by side with the research 
and relief organisations' activities, an intensive campaign has been 
conducted to draw the attention of the public and of scientists to the 
importance of this problem, and to promote effective application of the 
measures suggested by experts. 

In view of the national importance of the question, this campaign is 
not the task of a speciiic service, but is pursued in common by all 
the organisations of the State, the Fascist Party, the co-operative 
institutions and the competent special associations. 

Close co-operation is being established between the bodies engaged in 
research and those engaged in practical action. The results achieved by 
the former, exerting their full influence through the executive orders 
given by the political authorities, are carried into effect by all — the cen- 
tral and subordinate organs of the co-operative system, the secretaries of 
the different trade unions, the relief institutions and the local authori- 
ties. The permanent framework on which propaganda must be based 
being thus available and its efficiency being assured, the public autho- 
rities can use it for all the steps it wishes to take, whether they are of a 
general or individual character. 

Latvia. 

Teaching Nutrition in Schools. 

Since 1928, two lessons a week are devoted to domestic science in the 
two upper classes of primary schools. ^ Until recently, the teaching thus 
given was defective and superficial, as specialised teachers, the necessary 
educational equipment (text-books and materials) and suitable premises 
were lacking. When the National Government came into power, radical 
changes were made. The Riga Municipality now sees that every school 
has a well-equipped kitchen and a special domestic science class-room. 
The Riga municipal budget allocates special funds for this purpose. 
Similarly, the necessary instructions have been given to the communal 
authorities to have primary schools in the country gradually fitted up, 
within three or four years, with the necessary household equipment 
(crockery, various household requirements, table and kitchen linen) 
costing about 100 to 150 lats. In future, it will be obligatory for every 
school-building scheme to include provision for a special kitchen. 

Most (about three-fourths) of the domestic science course is devoted 
to teaching the utilisation and preparation of food, the rest of the time 
available being reserved for related subjects (care of the house, clothes, 
etc.). 

At secondary schools, one domestic science lesson is given weekly, 
while at the institutions for the training of teachers the curriculum of 
the last two classes includes two domestic science lessons a week. 



1 The lessons are givea to girl pupils only. 



- 238 - 

The Government arranges for the training of teachers specialised in 
domestic science. Thus, there is a provision that, in secondary schools, 
domestic science can be taught only by graduates of the Kaucminde 
School of Domestic Science. Special training-courses are organised for 
elementary-school teachers who have to give lessons in domestic science. 
One domestic science text-book has already been issued and is soon to 
be followed by several others. 

Domestic science teaching in schools is based on the principle that food 
must be prepared in a healthy and economic manner. By means of a well- 
organised system of household training, the Government is endeavouring 
to improve public health and to prevent food wastage in homes. The 
Government realises the great importance, from the standpoint of public 
health and political economy, of disseminating the principles and practice 
of rational nutrition and has even considered increasing the number of 
lessons devoted to this subject. 

Latvia has several special domestic science schools, which in 1934 ^^^ 
302 children and twenty-one teachers. Domestic science teaching also 
plays an important part in the special Government schools of agriculture 
and domestic science. At the domestic science schools for girls, where 
the course covers one year and a half, the programme includes lessons in 
rational nutrition, preparation of meals, household accounts, utilisation 
of fruit, etc. The practical training comprises the equipment of a kitchen 
and the cooking of various foods, including pastries, and also the 
preservation of food products, serving meals, etc. The aims of domestic 
science schools may be epitomised by the following national saying, 
which forms the motto on the prospectus of one of the Government 
schools of domestic science : 

" Learn to keep house ! The hand of the farmer's wife can empty 
the barn faster than the farmer's cart can fill it." 

In Latvia, the senior domestic science school is that of Kaucminde, 
with a two years' course and about seventy pupils from 18 to 21, most 
of them belonging to farmers' families. During its twelve years' existence, 
this school has been attended by about 320 students and the annual 
number of graduates is now thirty-two. 

Domestic Science Courses. 

Outside the schools, domestic science training is at present given 
mainly by the Latvian Chamber of Agriculture, which has a special 
domestic science section. Before the Chamber was established in 1935, 
this work was done by the Latvian Central Agricultural Society. There 
are special societies for household supervision in country districts ; 
in 1934-35 they numbered twenty-one, with 443 rural households under 
their control. The Chamber of Agriculture has at its disposal thirty- 
five domestic science teachers, each of whom is responsible for 
supervising from fifteen to thirty households. The teachers visit these 
households and give advice, particularly on food products. They also give 



— 239 — 

courses and lectures at the request of rural organisations. In addition, 
the Chamber of Agriculture has fifteen travelling teachers, who confine 
themselves solely to organising training courses and lectures. This 
number is supplemented by five district teachers with similar duties. 
All these teachers are paid partly by the State and partly by private 
organisations. 

Latterly, a new form of imparting a knowledge of domestic science 
has come into vogue — viz., the cookery competitions organised by the 
Riga domestic science schools. 

The domestic science courses for women engaged in agriculture are 
usually devoted to special subjects — -e.g., the preparation of meat and 
vegetables, various handicrafts, weaving, dressmaking, household 
technology (dyeing, bleaching, furniture repairs, home decoration, etc.). 

Domestic science is also taught to the " Young Farmers ", a very 
large organisation whose members are mainly recruited from young 
country people. 

Campaign to stimulate the Consumption of Milk. 

With a view to giving farmers a bigger market in Latvia itself (the 
possibilities of selling abroad being very limited and the prices very low), 
the Ministry of Agriculture, the Central Dairy Society (the chief 
organisation for the export of and trade in butter) and various firms 
dealing in dairy products organised a " Milk Week " in the spring of 
1935- A large number of posters and pamphlets were distributed 
explaining in a graphic way the great importance of milk and its by- 
products for public health. The pamphlets also contained various recipes 
for preparing milk dishes. 

Similar propaganda was carried on at the same time through articles 
in the local Press and broadcast talks. The success of this propaganda 
week is proved by the following figures supplied by the twelve largest 
firms dealing in dairy products (including the Central Dairy Society 
already referred to) : 



Dairy products sold 



In October 1934 



In 
schools 



In State 
institutions 



In 
municipal 
institutions 



In October 1935 



In 

schools 



In State 
institutions 



In 

municipal 
institutions 



Milk, litres 

Butter, kg 

Sour cream, kg. . . . 
Whipped cream, kg. 

Curds, kg 

Buttermilk, litres . . 
Kefir, bottles . . . . 



30.403 


45,549 


3,505 


46,609 


80,194 


2,101 


9,645 




2,986 


29.792 


1,992 


666 




2,682 


7.328 


595 


733 


— 


584 


1. 313 


625 


839 




864 


2,055 


542 


496 


175 


880 


3,185 


97 


651 




181 


1,464 



5.038 



1. 000 



— 240 — 

It will be seen that the propaganda week led to a considerable rise 
in the consumption of dairy products in schools and the Government 
and municipal institutions. The same is true as regards the consumption 
of dairy products at home, although exact figures are lacking. 

Campaign on behalf of Sugar. 

In Latvia, the production of and trade in sugar are a State monopoly. 
In order to increase the consumption of sugar and enable farmers to 
increase the acreage under sugar-beet, the Sugar Monopoly Department 
organised a huge campaign in 1935 on behalf of this product. Forty 
thousand copies of a 16-page pamphlet were distributed, giving a brief 
description of the important part played by sugar in public health as 
an article of mass consumption, and advice on its use in the household, 
and 300,000 copies of a special propaganda publication were distributed 
in country districts in order to acquaint farmers with the importance 
of sugar in nutrition. This publicity was followed up by Press articles 
and numerous lectures (some of them broadcast). 

There are no exact figures showing the results of this sugar campaign. 
Shortly before it opened, the price of sugar was raised 5 centimes per 
kilogramme. It is true that, in 1935, the consumption of sugar fell by 
2% as compared with 1934 '• but there is reason to suppose that, but 
for the campaign, the consumption would have fallen even more heavily 
as a result of the rise in price. In 1936, the consumption of sugar tends 
to remain steady, if not to increase. Moreover, the fall in sugar 
consumption in 1935 was also due to the fact that, as the fruit and berry 
crop was rather poor, substantially less was made into jam. 

Improvement in the Quality of Wheaten Bread. 

On August 25th, 1934, 'tbe National Government issued regulations 
concerning the quality of rye flour and bread. Flour mills, flour 
merchants and bakers are forbidden to mix rye flour with bran, lower- 
grade flour or any other substitutes. As a result, the quality of rye 
bread has improved, while the price remains the same, for compulsory 
provisions were issued at the same time fixing the retail price for rye 
bread at a maximum of 0.20 lat per kilogramme. The Ministry of 
Agriculture sees that these provisions are strictly observed. 



Mexico. 

The Government of the United States of Mexico has devoted constant 
attention to the question of improving the nutrition of the masses of 
the people by promoting the consumption of home-grown agricultural 
products. The Department of Public Health endeavours to spread 
among the public a knowledge of the principles and practice of rational 
nutrition. 



— 241 — 

It will be the object of the Federal District Service and of the service 
dealing with general questions as far as possible to induce the public 
by persuasion to follow more closely the rules of health in the matter 
of food and drink. Educational campaigns will accordingly be organised, 
as being preferable to the mere inspection of foodstuffs with a view to 
detecting infringements of the rules. 

The Mexican Government has also striven to improve the living 
conditions of the working and rural classes, by enacting laws such as the 
Labour Law and the Minimum Wages Law, under which they are assured 
of higher wages and are thus able to obtain the necessities of life, and 
particularly foodstuffs, more easily. 

Nutrition Research Institute. 

On January loth, 1936, there was set up, under the Department 
of Public Health, a General Office of Nutritional Hygiene, including 
among its activities a Research Institute on Popular Nutrition, which, 
by studying existing data and the information collected in various parts 
of the country, will endeavour to ascertain the dietary habits, 
requirements and mode of life of the inhabitants and the sources from 
which they obtain their food and drink. It will propose changes with a 
view to improving nutrition by the fuller use of natural resources within 
the limits of the individual's means and will do its utmost to increase, as 
far as possible, the quality of local production. 

It is proposed, through the Research Institute, to establish standard 
regional dietaries which would enable workmen and peasants, without 
spending more than they do at present, to obtain a better diet which 
would satisfy physiological requirements and lead to an improvement 
of the race and a better output. 

Netherlands. 

Research. 

Consideration is being given to the expediency of setting up an 
Interministerial Commission, consisting of representatives of the various 
public services concerned with nutrition questions, the Ministry of 
Agriculture and Fisheries, the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and 
Shipping, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education, 
Art and Science and the Board of Government Commissioners. 

As complaints are heard from time to time of malnutrition among a 
section of the schoolchildren, especially those from social classes which 
are suffering from the economic depression, the Netherlands Government 
proposes to organise an enquiry throughout the country. A Com- 
mission of Experts has been appointed by the Ministry of Social 
Affairs to decide upon the method of conducting the enquiry. 

Every other year, the Netherlands Pharmaceutical Society and the 
Netherlands Chemical Society organise a conference on the chemistry 



— 242 — 

of foodstuffs. The latest conference, which was held at Dordrecht in 
April 1936, discussed the nutrition of the Netherlands population, 
and had before it some important papers : " Nutritional Requirements " 
(by Professor B. C. P. Jansen) ; " Symptoms by which Under- 
nourishment and Malnutrition may be recognised " (by Professor 
L. K. Wolff) ; " Application of Statistical Methods to Enquiries into 
the State of Nutrition " (by Dr. J. H. van Zanten) ; " Examples of 
Home Feeding and Institutional Feeding ". 



Popular Instruction. 

In the Netherlands, the campaign for the improvement of nutrition 
is conducted partly by the public authorities on grounds of hygiene 
and public health, and partly by the organisations for the marketing 
of agricultural and milk products with a view to encouraging the 
consumption of such products. 

The campaign conducted by the Central Bureau for Public Sales 
of Vegetables and Fruits dates from 1924. It is conducted mainly by 
means of cookery-books, pamphlets by teachers in domestic economy 
schools and other specialists, which are distributed free by shops and at 
exhibitions. Demonstrations of cookery are given at various exhibitions 
for the benefit of the cause. The campaign also makes use of 
advertisements at exhibitions and fairs, advertising motor-cars and 
luminous advertisements, electric clocks, advertisements on paper bags, 
notices in newspapers, broadcast lectures and films. 

The world depression has been the occasion of special propaganda 
efforts in connection with milk products. The consumption of milk 
products has hitherto been comparatively slight in the Netherlands, 
and the Crisis Bureau for Milk Products (Crisis-Zuivelbureau) has 
endeavoured to encourage consumption of these products in the home 
market. A special propaganda section has been formed, with thirteen 
propaganda centres, ten of which are in the provinces (one being for the 
provinces of Gelderland and Overijsel combined), and three for the 
cities of Amsterdam, The Hague and Rotterdam. The campaign is 
organised with the aid of various State and communal institutions, 
doctors, domestic economy experts and associations, public health 
services and the Press. An Advisory Committee for Scientific Research 
is in process of formation. The campaign is conducted by means of : 

(a) Advertisements, wrappers, photographs, cookery demonstrations, 
circulars and pamphlets ; 

{b) The organisation of propaganda days or weeks for milk products, 
with preparation of the ground by means of posters, films, etc., and 
the organisation of stands at fairs ; 

(c) The distribution of milk products to mothers and wet-nurses, 
schoolchildren and unemployed in receipt of relief. 



— 243 — 

(d) In several provinces there were already provincial committees 
making propaganda to encourage the consumption of milk bread, 
before the propaganda centres were set up. In the Frisian Islands, 
for example, this propaganda had been very successful. Enquiries 
show that the percentage of milk bread to the total of bread consumed 
increased from 20% to 60%, and in some districts even to 70% and 
80%. The provincial committees set up a large number of local 
committees. The Crisis-Zuivelbureau made use, wherever possible, 
of these existing organisations, on the principle that the parties 
concerned should pay for the propaganda. The provincial committees 
agree with this principle, and are at present co-operating with the 
propaganda centres of the Crisis-Zuivelbureau. The latter organisation 
has also approached the bakers' organisations and a co-operative 
organisation of consumers with a view to encouraging the consumption 
of milk bread. 

Education. 

Under the auspices of the Netherlands Ministry of Public Instruction 
and the Ministry of Social Affairs, committees have been set up to 
instruct housewives in the use of raw materials for food and the methods 
of preparing food in a nourishing and palatable form. In 1935, some 
400 cookery courses were given in the country, and in the towns the 
population is given instruction by means of cookery demonstrations and 
pamphlets. A semi-official committee made two grants in 1935 of as 
much as 18,000 guilders for this purpose, and increased the amount 
in 1936 to 28,000 guilders. 



Netherlands East Indies. 

Research. 

The public authorities in the Netherlands Indies are in a position to 
ascertain the prevailing level of nutrition. If certain groups of the 
population or certain districts are under-nourished, this fact is duly 
noted by the Local Government, the Public Health Service or the 
Department of Economic Affairs. There are Local Government officials. 
Government medical officers and agricultural experts in all parts of 
the archipelago, and their knowledge of the facts enables them to form 
a good idea of the sources of income, reserves of foodstuffs, commonest 
diseases, general living conditions, etc. , of the population in their districts. 

In 1933, all the unattached Government medical officers and the 
medical officers attached to the Local Governments were instructed to 
pay special attention to the level of nutrition in their districts. This 
enquiry was instituted in connection with the tenth Congress of the 
Far-Eastern Association of Tropical Medicine. 

Special mention should also be made of the work of the " Instituut 
voor wetenschappelijk onderzoek der Volksvoeding en de met haar 
samenhangende problemen in Nederlandsch-Indie ", which was 



— 244 — 

established on September 21st, 1934, and receives a subsidy from the 
" Koningin Wilhelmina Jubileum Stichting ". This institution promotes 
chemical, medical, economic and social researches in the field of nutrition. 
To this end it receives as much co-operation as possible ; inter alia, from 
the Medical Laboratory and Advanced School of Medicine, the Central 
Leprosy Institute at Batavia, the Chemical Laboratory and the 
Department of Economic Affairs. At the present time, the " Instituut 
voor Volksvoeding ", mentioned above, has instituted researches in 
Griss^e, where the influence of nutrition on leprosy is being studied. 
Local investigations have shown that, on the whole, nutrition is adequate, 
but that a more rational diet could be obtained at the same price. 

In 1929, Professor Donath compiled tables regarding the nutritive 
value of all kinds of foodstuffs, and, in particular, specifically native 
foodstuffs. These tables have been brought up to date at regular 
intervals between 1929 and 1935. They have been published in the 
Medical Year-Book for the Netherlands Indies and are in the hands of 
nearly all doctors. Thanks to the efforts of the institute for popular 
nutrition (Instituut voor Volksvoeding), new series of tables relating to 
the value of foodstuffs have been compiled, based on the researches of 
the chemical laboratory at Buitenzorg and the medical laboratory at 
Batavia. 

Researches have recently been undertaken at the request of the 
" Koninklijke Paketvaart Maatschappij " to establish the vitamin 
content and the nutritive value of the rations issued to that company's 
native sailors. 

Popular Instruction. 

The medical and health propaganda service is endeavouring, by means 
of popular education, to ensure more rational nutrition — for instance, by 
displaying wholesome and hygienic foodstuffs at the fairs, in certain 
centres, etc. In the large towns, the communal and local public health 
services are co-operating in this work. 



Poland. 



Research. 

The annual consumption per head of population of the principal articles 
of food in Poland is calculated on the basis of the country's total 
production and sales on the provision market. Certain facts are known 
regarding the consumption of the urban and rural populations ; 
consumption has therefore been separately calculated for each 
voivodeship or group of voivodeships. Research is in progress regarding 
cereals, meat and potatoes, due regard being had to regional divisions. 



— 245 — 
Consumption statistics per head of population for 1934 were as follows : 

Kg. 

Potatoes 932 (highest figure in Europe) 

Rye 159 (highest figure in Europe) 

Wheat 51 (lowest figure in Europe) 

Sugar 9.8 

Coffee 0.2 

Rice 1.4 

Meat 18.61 

An enquiry carried out in respect of four wage-groups showed that 
only a very small proportion of the budget of working-class families 
(four persons) is spent on food — viz.: 





Group 
Zloty per annum 


Spent on food 
% of the total 


(a) 


1,527 


66.1 


(b) 


2,386 


60.1 


{0) 


3.230 


54-9 


(d) 


4.995 


44.6 



The annual consumption of the chief articles of food (men) was : 





Bread 
Kg. 


Potatoes 
Kg. 


Milk 
Litres 


Butter 
Kg. 


Eggs 
Kg. 


Meat 
Kg. 


Fats 
Kg. 


Sugar 
Kg. 


Fruit 
Kg. 


(a) 


172.2 


169.7 


38.7 


I.O 


0.7 


1973 


8.1 


II. 7 


2.1 


(b) 


146.6 


204.0 


77-4 


1-7 


2.2 


32.6 


13.6 


20.6 


8.3 


(c) 


156.0 


204.7 


93-4 


2-4 


3-5 


50.9 


157 


22.8 


10.3 


id) 


122.3 


193-6 


125.0 


3.6 


7.0 


69.2 


14.0 


29.6 


28.5 



This very inadequate dietary is, nevertheless, luxurious compared 
with that of the unemployed. 



Education. 

The Polish Health Association has a food rationalisation section with 
a domestic economy institute. The object of this section is to make a 
scientific study of nutrition problems, and to disseminate a knowledge 
of these problems by means of lectures, exhibitions and publications 
(articles in the bi-monthly review Public Health and articles in the daily 
Press). 

Propaganda on rational nutrition is carried on in towns and villages 
by various scientific and social institutions, which arrange courses 
on domestic economy, lectures, talks, etc. 

Instruction on rational nutrition is given in schools of all types, and 
attention is drawn to the importance of health and to the nutritive 
value of the various foods in the growth of the human body. 



— 246 — 

Cooking and how to prepare food rationally are taught in the 
elementary schools for girls (Forms 6 and 7), when suitable premises 
are available. 

The syllabuses of all vacational schools for girls include a yearly 
domestic course, dealing extensively with the problem of rational 
family nutrition. There are 108 special domestic schools of three kinds 
— primary, secondary and higher — in which nutrition problems are 
treated fully. 

Ronmania. 

Research. 

Among investigations of nutritional diseases may be mentioned the 
work undertaken at Osoi in the model village of Tomesti, which formed 
part of the activities of the Institute of Health at lassi. The study was 
concerned with nutrition in the commune of Osoi, where it was found that 
maize formed an important element of food. It was observed, also, that 
there was little meat or protective food such as milk and vegetables. 

Education and Popular Instruction. 

Education and propaganda are carried on in the child welfare 
dispensaries, where mothers receive advice on infant feeding, and this 
is supplemented by the visiting nurses. There are schools of housekeeping 
where teachers are trained, and courses on housekeeping in the 
professional and higher schools where children learn the preparation 
of food and to distinguish good from poor quality. They are also taught 
the nutrition value of different foods. 

There is a National Milk Committee affiliated with the International 
Milk Federation. This committee takes all possible steps to stimulate 
the production and improvement of this important food as well as milk 
publicity. 

Siam. 

Popular Instruction. 

Public health education is important as a means of improving the 
standard of nutrition. To achieve this object, the Department of 
Public Health has distributed pamphlets, leaflets and posters to schools 
and has also given advice through the public health nurses to mothers 
in regard to suitable feeding for themselves and their children. Further- 
more, the display of public health motion-pictures dealing with nutrition 
is being contemplated with a view to raising the standard of national 
nutrition. The Siamese Red Cross Society is also carrying out general 
health propaganda for improving nutrition. 



— ^47 — 

Sweden. 

Research in Matters of Nutrition. 

An extensive social-hygienic investigation was carried out in the 
provinces of Vasterbotten and Norrbotten during the years 1929-1931, 
at the instigation of the former head of the Medical Board, Director- 
General Nils Hellstrom. 

The chief aim of this investigation was to discover the relation between 
the deficiency in the diet existing in these provinces and certain 
conditions of ill-health, mainly the reduction in certain functions of the 
stomach (achylia), colitis and anaemia, which appeared to be more 
prevalent in those districts. The result of this very extensive 
investigation has so far been published only in Swedish. A translation 
into English is in preparation. A large number of special investigations 
on a more restricted clientele have been carried out by private 
practitioners — as, for instance, the late M. C. A. H. Ljunggren, M.D. 

In the account of an investigation published in the year 1933 
concerning the influence of dietetic and hygienic conditions on the health 
of forest labourers, the Social Board and the Medical Board have put 
forward certain suggestions for the improvement of the preparation 
of food for forest labourers and lumber-floaters during their stay in the 
forests. A thorough analysis was made of the diet and the health 
conditions of these workmen. The investigation resulted in a recom- 
mendation that educational propaganda should be inaugurated 
— and directed, not only towards the workers, but their employers — 
that a handbook should be compiled on the organisation and upkeep 
of common camp-kitchens for forest labourers, and that short courses 
of instruction should be arranged for persons wishing to take employment 
as housekeepers or cooks in lumber-camps. 

The chief sources of information as to the composition of the Swedish 
diet are the household investigations carried out by the Social Board. 
These are : "The Cost of Living in Sweden, 1913-1914 " ; "The 
Consumption of Foodstuffs in Households of People of Small Means 
during the Years 1914 and 1916 " ; " The Consumption of Foodstuffs 
in the Households of People of Small Means during the Years 191 4" 
1918 " ; " The Cost of Living in the Rural Areas of Sweden in the Year 
1920 " ; " The Cost of Living in the Cities and Industrial Centres about 
the Year 1923 " ; " Living Conditions and Household Habits in the 
Cities and the Industrial Centres about the Year 1932 " ; " Living 
Conditions and Household Habits of Workers in the Rural Districts 
about the Year 1933 ". These investigations, which form a part of the 
Official Statistics of Sweden, contain a summary in French. It is mtended 
to make such investigations every ten years. 

The household investigations referred to are carried out in the 
following manner : To a large number of families — usually over a 
thousand — very detailed housekeeping books are supplied, which are to 



- 248 - ■ 

be kept during a whole year. In the preparation of the material thus 
obtained, knowledge is gained as to the distribution of the expenditure 
on the different items, and, as regards foodstuffs, the quantities purchased 
of the different kinds. The composition of the diet can then be considered 
with reference to the size of the family, degree of prosperity, the 
occupation of the head of the family, etc. 

The investigations mainly concern households of the working-classes 
and the lower grades of the public service. A first examination of this 
material from the point of view of the physiology of nutrition has been 
carried out by the Social Board. A more thorough analysis is at present 
in preparation. 

Education. 

Government action in this sphere includes the training of female 
teachers for school-kitchens who are charged — especially in the primary 
and middle-stage schools — with the teaching of kindred subjects. A 
special volume of about loo pages entitled " Norrlandskvinnornas 
hjalpreda " (The Norrland Housekeeper's Guide) has been very widely 
distributed in the homes, mainly through the intermediary of the 
Governors' offices, in the north of Sweden. This volume is chiefly 
intended for the homes in the rural districts of the north, but its contents 
are also of use beyond the borders of the provinces for which it was 
compiled. Broadcasting instruction is also given on these matters, 
partly by lectures, serial or individual. 

Popular Instruction. 

In addition to its other humanitarian activities, the Swedish Red 
Cross has made propaganda for better diet by arranging exhibitions 
and publishing pamphlets. One of these pamphlets, entitled " Var 
foda och folkhalsan " (Our Food and the Public Health) has been 
distributed in the municipalities on the northern border, thanks to 
Government subsidy and through the intermediary of the Board of 
Education. Many other organisations undertake similar activities. 
The Taxpayers' Association (which is advocating sound expenditure of 
private as well as public money) has published several pamphlets and 
short articles dealing with a diet properly composed from the point 
of view of nutrition. The Co-operative Federation undertakes 
propaganda in the same direction in its paper The Consumers' Gazette 
(circulation 500,000 copies), by publishing books on the subject, by 
arranging study circles, by the so-called Women's Guild Movement, 
and by " housekeepers" evenings " arranged by the co-operative 
societies, at which demonstrations are arranged to show the proper 
preparation of food. A large number of associations for housekeepers 
and other similar societies, as well as the people's educational movement 
in general, include dietetic courses in their programmes. Finally, 
propaganda is made bj' private persons — as, for instance, medical men. 



— 249 — 

Switzerland. 

Popular Instruction. 

In Switzerland, the growing of dessert fruits is warmly encouraged. 
The Federal Alcohol R6gie gives subsidies for the improvement of 
orchards. Fruit-picking, for marketing in the towns, is organised in 
certain cantons with the assistance of the public authorities — for 
example, in the Valais. 

Several forms of propaganda for the consumption of food products 
of Swiss origin are educational in character and aim at promoting the 
economic interests of producers. The organisations devoting special 
attention to the problem of rational nutrition include : 

The Swiss Hygienic Society, with headquarters at Basle ; 
The Swiss Hygienic Alliance, with headquarters at Basle ; 
The Swiss Milk Commission ; 
The Bread Conference ; 

The " Cartel romand d'Hygiene sociale et morale ", with head- 
quarters at Lausanne. 

Under the auspices of the Health Committee of the " Cartel romand 
d'Hygiene sociale et morale ", propaganda is at present being carried on 
to encourage the consumption of milk, dairy products, non-fermented 
fruit- juice and wholemeal bread. 

A Bread Commission of hygienists, chemists and representatives of 
the milling and baking industries under the direction of the Federal 
Public Health Department has been constituted with a view to finding 
a formula for a " People's bread ". The idea is to make more rational use 
than is the case at present in the majority of breads in current 
consumption, and white bread in particular, of the constituent elements 
of the grain, so as to supply the human body with those parts which are 
necessary for the maintenance of its efficiency, and above all, certain 
vitamins found mainly in the husks and bran. The bread-type problem 
is closely connected with the problem of dental decay, the frequency of 
which in Switzerland seems to be due, in part at any rate, to defects of 
nutrition. 

Reference should be made in this connection to the vigorous 
propaganda carried on in certain parts of Switzerland in favour of the 
consumption of raw foods. As raw foods retain their vitamins intact, 
whereas cooking destroys or alters them, their influence on certain 
diseased conditions may be excellent, and rational publicity in this 
direction is able to render real services. 

Active propaganda is being carried on in the matter of dairy products, 
in order to advertise their nutritive qualities. The Swiss Propaganda 
Office at Berne, the Swiss Milk Committee, the Swiss Commercial 
Expansion Centres at Zurich and Lausanne take an active part in this 
propaganda. 



250 

Education. 

In Switzerland, instruction in domestic economy is highly developed, 
but, as in the majority of countries much, still remains to be done. As a 
general rule, indeed, the education of girls scarcely ever concerns itself 
with the essential tasks of the mistress of a house. Not only does it neglect 
domestic economy, but economy of every kind. Instruction in domestic 
economy teaches girls to examine and choose foodstuffs, to prepare meals 
and manage their houses as economically as possible. They acquire habits 
of cleanliness and good taste, so that they are subsequently able to make 
their homes attractive, and, in addition, they receive valuable instruction 
in hygiene and the care of infants. The courses are also designed to 
counteract certain prejudices which are deep-rooted in many parts of 
the country. 

Turkey. 

To establish standardised nutrition in a country like Turkey, where 
customs and climatic conditions vary greatly, is a complex problem 
which it is practically impossible to solve. Enquiries have naturally 
been made into the method of nutrition of the various classes of the 
population. The results have merely served to confirm the particulars 
already known. The question of nutrition in the towns was placed 
on the agenda of the fourth National Congress of Medicine held at 
Ankara in September 1931, and was the subject of long discussion. 

Popular Instruction. 

The public authorities and private organisations have not found it 
necessary to undertake propaganda regarding the general principles and 
conditions of nutrition. 

In accordance with the provisions of the Public Health Law, health 
teaching is comp)ilsory in all the educational establishments. Apart 
from such instruction and some broadcast lectures, we have not yet 
established any organisation for encouraging the habits of rational 
nutrition among the masses. 

United States of America. 

Measure-s for the Improvement of Nutrition undertaken by the 

Public Health Service. 

The nutrition work of the United States Public Health Service 
(U.S. Treasury Department) has been confined almost entirely to research 
work. This is being carried on along two different lines : 

I. The Office of Nutrition Investigations, which conducts experimental 
laboratory studies on various nutritional problems. — In the past, 
the work of this office has consisted mostly of studies on pellagra, since 



— 251 — 

the control of this disease is an important problem in the United States. 
In addition to laboratory research, this office has held clinics, presented 
papers on pellagra to medical societies, and prepared exhibits for the 
dissemination of the new information acquired about this disease. 

II. The Office of Field Investigations of Child Hygiene has made 
extensive field studies on large groups of children. The latest study 
now in progress includes details of nutritional status and correlates 
physicians' examinations, incidence of illness, with growth in height 
and weight and nutrition estimates on a group of about 5,000 school- 
children. This office, in co-operation with agencies in various States, 
undertakes investigations of growth, nutrition and health status of 
children in different areas of the United States. The results of some of 
the more recent of these studies indicate that, in a selected small city, 
the average weight of children in the years 1921-1927, as compared with 
May 1933, presents no consistent or statistically significant differences. 
Classification of children in three groups {{a) those from families of the 
unemployed, {b) those from families part-time employed and {c) those 
from families of the regularly employed) shows approximately the same 
differences in the weight of children as generally found in different 
socio-economic classes. It is concluded, therefore, that there has been 
no obliteration nor widening of class differences during the period of 
the depression. 

A study of the relative change in height and weight during 1 929-1 933 
of urban children from (i) families that remained in comfortable 
economic circumstances during the entire period, (2) families that 
remained poor and (3) families comfortable in 1929 but poor in 1933 
shows that young children from families that had become poor failed 
by approximately 2% to attain the weight of the children of the group 
as a whole. The conclusion is drawn, so far as growth in weight of this 
sample of children from urban wage-earning families is concerned, 
that it is children from families whose incomes have fallen to a low level 
who have been affected by the economic depression. 

A study of the diets of low-income families surveyed in 1933 in nine 
scattered localities in the United States, based on records of a week's 
food supply, indicates an average energy value of the food supply nearly 
20% below the adequate standard of 3,000 calories per day per adult 
male unit for families in five cities with a weekly income of less than 
$2 per person, and about one-fourth of these families had less than 
2,200 calories daily. The calorie supply was similarly low for families 
in New York City with incomes less than $4 weekly per person. Relief 
families, except those on work relief in New York City, had a higher 
average supply of calories than the poorest non-relief groups, but 25% 
in the five cities and 29% in New York had less than 2,200 calories per 
adult male unit. The average caloric value of the food supply of families 
at the lowest income levels in the other three communities equalled 
or exceeded the adequate standard, owing to the general use of large 
quantities of fat meat, flour or other cereal foods and sugar. 



252 

A greatly diminished use of milk, vegetables and fruits was associated 
with lower incomes in all the communities in the study. In the five 
cities, the average supply of milk purchased by families with income 
less than $2 per capita per week was one-third less than minimum 
requirements, and average amounts of fresh and canned vegetables 
and fruits were about equal to minimum needs. Bread and cereals 
were also used in smaller amounts than is recommended for a low-cost 
diet. On the other hand, amounts of meat and fish, eggs and sugary 
foods purchased, though less than amounts purchased by higher-income 
families, exceeded the quantities recommended for an adequate low-cost 
diet. The result was a dietary low in calcium and vitamins. 

In New York City, the average dietary of the lowest-income families 
included adequate quantities of fresh and canned vegetables and 
minimum amounts of milk. However, the period of canvass in New 
York City extended later into the spring season than did that in the 
five cities. In these families which had a food supply with less caloric 
value than the minimum need, the use of such cheap high-caloric foods 
as bread and cereals, dried legumes and potatoes was less than is 
recommended for a low-cost diet. 

The families in the mining towns of West Virginia and the cotton-mill 
villages of South Carolina whose weekly income was less than $2 per 
person purchased less than half the requirements for milk in a restricted 
diet and also used too little fruit. The average amount of fresh and 
canned vegetables reported by families in the mining towns was below 
minimum requirements, and that for mill-village families approximately 
equalled the minimum requirements. 

In Birmingham, the food supply of the lowest-income families was 
deficient chiefly in milk. 

The United States Public Health Service furnishes medical service 
for the Office of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior, and 
this office is attempting to improve the nutrition of the American 
Indian. Efforts are being made to give Indian children in boarding- 
schools and in day-schools a balanced ration in conformity with 
budgetary allotments. It has been observed that the Indian children 
in boarding-schools gain in weight and are physically much better 
after a sojourn in the school than at the time of arrival. It is believed 
that the boarding-school diets are largely responsible. The same thing 
is true of day-school pupils to whom hot lunches are furnished. Hot 
lunches are common throughout the Indian day-schools. The field 
personnel, as a part of the regular public health programme, stress 
the importance of nutrition and proper diet through their health 
educational work and the extension division is teaching Indian pupils 
to can and preserve foods, which is regarded as an important phase 
of the question and is being carried out on a large scale. 

The problem of the Indian boarding-school is to provide food for 
optimal nutrition at a moderate cost. Usually adequate nutrition will 
be indicated by the normal growth of the children in weight and height. 



— 253 — 

the best index of good health and good nutrition during childhood. 
The fact that the Indian boarding-school feeds the children only ten 
months out of twelve must be considered when planning the diet. 
Many of the children report to school in poor physical condition. Cases 
of malnutrition are not unusual ; because too great a change in diet 
may cause illness when the children first come to school, they must 
be watched carefully during the period of adjustment and new foods 
added to the diet gradually. On the other hand, new foods may not 
be readily accepted by the children, and much educational work is 
necessary in carrying out the nutritional programme. 

The Indian day-school has another problem, because, in the day- 
school, children have only the noon meal five times a week. Even 
greater care, therefore, must be taken in planning this meal, because 
the meals provided at home are often inadequate for growing children. 
The meals eaten at school must supply growth and protective foods 
to supplement the home diet, and should not be a repetition of foods 
eaten at home, even though the children may not accept new foods 
at once. 

Enquiries into Family Expenditure on Food. 

For more than forty years, the Department of Agriculture has 
concerned itself with the content, cost and nutritional adequacy of 
American diets. Information on family food expenditures and on food 
consumption patterns has also been collected by the Bureau of Labour 
Statistics and other public and private agencies. However, many of the 
studies made in the past are not useful in making a complete summary 
of food consumption, because the data have not been published in 
sufficient detail. 

Estimates of consumption based on ten studies made during the period 
1913-1933 have been analysed by Dr. Hazel K. Stiebeling, of the 
Bureau of Home Economics, and the results have been compared with 
a detailed analysis of seventy-three selected winter dietary records 
collected in 1934-35 in cities of the North Atlantic region. The latter 
are a part of a current nation-wide study of the disbursements of wage- 
earners and salaried workers, being conducted by the United States 
Bureau of Labor Statistics. 

As part of its 1934-1936 investigation of the disbursements of families 
of wage-earners and low-salaried workers, the Cost of Living Division 
of the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics is collecting supervised 
weekly records of family food purchases. These records are being made 
at each season of the year in many cities scattered over the country. 
The primary purpose of the study is to secure data basic to the 
construction of satisfactory seasonal indexes of food costs. In order 
to make the data useful also for evaluating the economy and nutritional 
adequacy of the diets, the data include, in addition to records of food 
purchases, inventories of the food on hand at the beginning and end of 
the week, records of edible and non-edible waste, and information 



— 254 — 

regarding some of the factors affecting food habits and needs, such as 
income, food-buying procedures, occupation, as well as the number, 
age, sex, weight and height of persons consuming the food. 

It is found that, with increasing per capita expenditures for food, 
the families studied in 1934-35 tend to buy more food, and more 
expensive food. The increases in the quantities purchased were most 
pronounced in the case of milk, meats, eggs, fruits and vegetables (other 
than potatoes and dried legumes). At the three expenditure levels 
studied in detail, about the same average prices were paid for milk, 
eggs, potatoes and dried legumes ; but at the higher expenditure levels 
more expensive forins, as well as larger quantities, were purchased of 
other vegetables, fruits, meats, fats, sweets and grain products. 

The winter diets of wage-earner's families in the North Atlantic 
region were relatively lower in grain products, eggs and the succulent 
fruits and vegetables, according to a study made in 1935-36, than are the 
estimates of year-round consumption based on studies made during 
1913-1933. More potatoes, dried legumes, citrus fruit and meat, poultry 
and fish were included in winter diets ; this might be expected, since 
these foods are usually cheaper in the winter than at other seasons. 
The consumption of milk, fats and sugars is quite comparable in the 
two sets of figures. 

The nutritive value of the winter diets of North Atlantic wage-earners 
improved as expenditures for food increased. The more expensive diets 
had the higher vitamin and mineral values. But, if at each expenditure 
level the food was eaten in the proportions reported and in quantities 
just sufficient to satisfy energy requirements, the quality of the diets at 
the two lower expenditure levels would leave much to be desired. They 
would be comparatively low in minerals and vitamins, especially in 
calcium, and vitamins B and C, as judged by present knowledge of 
nutritional needs. Diets can be reinforced in these factors by careful 
food selection. To do so without adding to food expenses requires a 
knowledge of food values in relation to food prices. 

Nutrition of Children. 

In order to combat the effects of the economic depression on the health 
and welfare of children, the Secretary of Labour, in October 1933, 
convened a Child Health Recovery Conference. As a result of this 
conference, the Children's Bureau of the United States Department 
of Labour prepared a physical examination record blank, together with 
instructions for its use, which many communities used in their attempts 
to locate under-nourished children. 

For more than two years the Children's Bureau has been accumulating 
from many sources evidence of various kinds — some statistical, some 
reports of small groups of cases, some opinions of individuals — tending 
to show that the depression is having a very real and increasingly severe 
effect on the health and nutrition of children. 



— 255 — 

It is, of course, obvious that the figures from one community are not 
necessarily applicable to another, and because the effects of privation 
are demonstrable in one region it does not necessarily mean that they 
exist in another. But the sum of the evidence at hand points to the 
fact that the nutritional condition of children in many communities 
is showing increasingly serious effects of the long periods of 
unemployment and want. Striking corroboration of this was given at 
the recent conference of State and provincial health officers of North 
America when replies to a questionnaire sent out by its child-hygiene 
committee were reported. These showed that twenty-two of thirty- 
nine State health officers considered the nutritional needs of children 
as the needs outstanding above all others. 

A report issued in July 1933 gives the following indications as to the 
nutrition of children of school and pre-school age : 

" Reports of malnutrition among children of school age have come 
from a number of cities. The figures from New York City, as given 
in the Weekly Bulletin of the Department of Health for November 
26th, 1932, supplemented by a personal communication from the 
city health commissioner, show an increase in malnutrition among 
schoolchildren in the Borough of Manhattan from 16% in 1929 to 
29% in 1932, and an increase in the Borough of the Bronx from 13 to 
23% during the same period." 

In other words, the proportion of schoolchildren in these districts 
of New York City who showed malnutrition at the end of 1932 was 
nearly twice as high as the proportion four years before. More than 
300,000 New York City children were examined each year. The 
percentage of malnutrition found in each of six consecutive years is 
shown in the following table : 

New York City . 

Another example from the Community Health Centre of Philadelphia, 
where children coming under the care of certain Jewish welfare 
organisations are given careful physical examination, shows that, in 
this group, malnutrition has increased among children of school age 
(6 to 16 years) from an average of 30% of those examined from 1928 to 
1930 to 42% of those examined in 1932. 

Information with regard to the condition of pre-school children is 
no more encouraging. In New York City, the East Harlem Nursing and 
Health Service has reported that steady improvement in the nutrition 
of pre-school children attending its clinics took place from 1923 until 
1931, at which time only about 13% of those examined were found to 
be under-nourished. During 1932, however, the amount of malnutrition 
doubled, and 24% of the children examined showed the effects of poor 
nutrition. The work has been under the direction of the same 
pediatricians since 1923. 



1927 


1928 


1929 


1930 


1931 


1932 


C3-5 


13-6 


13-4 


16. 1 


17.0 


21 . 1 



— 256 — 

In Philadelphia, among children under 6 years of age examined at 
the Community Health Centre, the percentage of malnourished children 
shows a definite rise — from 11% in the period 1928 to 1930 to 24% 
in 1932. In this age-group, there is an increase of more than 100% in 
the amount of malnutrition. 

From even the fragmentary information available, it is probably quite 
safe to estimate that to-day somewhere in the neighbourhood of one- 
fifth of all pre-school and school children in the United States are showing 
the effects of poor nutrition, of inadequate housing, of lack of medical 
care, and, in many cases, the effect of the anxiety and the sense of 
insecurity that prevails wherever there is no work. In some regions, 
without question, the proportion of below-par children is far greater than 
this, reaching truly appalling figures ; in others, where conditions have 
been more favourable or where the effects of unemployment have been 
more satisfactorily mitigated through relief measures, the proportion 
is possibly lower. 

At the present time, the Children's Bureau is conducting a study of 
the physical fitness of schoolchildren in New Haven, Connecticut. 
Its purpose is to attempt to compare and evaluate the various methods 
of estimating the physical fitness and nutritional condition of 
schoolchildren now in use by school physicians, nurses and teachers, or 
recommended for such use. 



Education in Nutrition. 

Public authorities have assumed major responsibility for an 
educational programme in nutrition. The Extension Service has a 
nutrition programme in every State, co-ordinated by a nutrition specialist 
from Washington working through the nutrition specialists in the States, 
and extended down into more than 1,350 counties through the home 
demonstration agents. 

Nutrition is taught in the schools in a so-called " integrated " home 
economics programme in the lower grades and directly in junior and 
senior high schools. In many States, classes for mothers are an important 
form of adult education. 

The Foods and Nutrition Division of the Bureau of Home Economics, 
and the home economics divisions of many State experimental stations 
and private institutions have conducted studies in human nutrition. 
The results of these studies have contributed largely to the development 
of educational programmes in wise food choice. 

The American Red Cross has for many years had a nutrition 
programme. Under this agency, educational work in nutrition in different 
areas has been stimulated, and in some cases local chapters have made 
available nutrition workers for the local community. The American 
Child Health Association has stimulated both research and educational 
work in the field of child hygiene. 



— 257 — 

The Millbank Foundation and the Association for improving the 
Condition of the Poor in New York, the Elisabeth McCormick Memorial 
Fund in Chicago, and the Heller Foundation in California are examples 
of local foundations that have done both research and educational work 
in nutrition and have worked very closely with Governmental agencies. 

Popular Instruction. 

The Bureau of Home Economics of the Department of Agriculture 
publishes, not only technical bulletins reporting results of nutrition 
and diet studies, but popular bulletins which may be used directly 
or in modified form by individuals or organisations for educational 
work. Many of the States and private organisations prepare their own 
bulletins. In addition to the printed publications, a weekly news release 
known as The Market Basket is distributed to a number of newspapers 
in the various States. Radio talks are prepared and distributed to be 
broadcast from local stations, and a talk on nutrition is given weekly 
over a national network. Charts and film-strips are available for 
educational work. 

The Children's Bureau has, since its establishment, distributed 
literature containing information as to the planning of adequate diets 
and the value of certain foods for pregnant women and for children. 
These publications include bulletins in which certain sections deal with 
diet during pregnancy, and with the feeding of the infant and child, as 
well as special pamphlets on milk and other foods and on nutrition. 
Large numbers of these publications have been distributed : " Pre- 
natal Care ", 3,769,969 ; " Infant Care ", 8,478,780 ; " Child Care and 
the Child from i to 6 ", 3,114,619; "What is Malnutrition ? " 70,000; 
"Milk, the Indispensable Food for Children", 31,000; "Why drink 
Milk ? " 365,000. 

Other leaflets outlining adequate family food budgets have been 
prepared in co-operation with the Bureau of Home Economics of the 
United States Department of Agriculture. These leaflets deal with 
" Emergency Food Relief and Child Health ", " How to spend your 
Food Money ", " Family Food Budgets for the Use of Relief Agencies ". 
They are used chiefly by relief agencies and other social agencies working 
with children. A " Programme for an Undernourished Child, 2 to 16 Years 
of Age ", of which approximately 700,000 copies have been distributed, 
may be quoted by way of illustration : 



" Programme for an Under-nourished Child, 2 to 16 Years of Age. 

" The diet miist include the following protective foods : 

" Milk. — One quart of whole milk daily, either fresh or prepared 
by diluting evaporated or dried milk. To this may be added other 



— 258 — 

milk products, such as dried skim milk, cream and cheese. Milk is 
indispensable in the child's diet. 

" Butter. — On bread or other foods. 

" Egg. — One daily. 

" Vegetables. — At least one serving daily of a green leafy vegetable 
and one serving of some other coloured vegetable : spinach, turnip- 
tops, beet-tops, cabbage, kale, chard ; carrots, green beans, peas, 
beets, tomatoes (fresh or canned, squash). 

" Many vegetables may be used raw, such as cabbage, carrots 
(grated), lettuce, celery, watercress, tomatoes. Other vegetables, 
such as turnips, onions, parsnips, cauliflower, may be used, but not 
to the exclusion of green leafy or other coloured vegetables. 

" Fruit. — At least one serving daily of a fresh fruit. Oranges, 
bananas, apples, or other fresh fruit in season. Cooked dried fruits, 
such as raisins, prunes, apricots and peaches, are valuable foods and 
should be used frequently in addition to fresh fruits. Other cooked 
fruits may be given. 

" Cod-liver oil. — Two to four teaspoonfuls daily, especially in the 
north temperate zone. 

" In addition, other energy and body-building foods : 

" Bread. — Two or three times a day ; whole-grain bread at least 
once a day. 

" Cereals. — Hot cooked cereal once or twice a day, served with 
milk or cream. 

" Starchy vegetables. — Potatoes, sweet-potatoes, rice, barley, 
macaroni or hominy once a da3^ 

" Meat or fish. — Fresh lean meat or fish once a daj^ if possible." 

" The foods recommended for under-nourished children are the 
same for any age group ; but the older child, especially the child 
in his teens, needs larger quantities of each food than does the j^ounger 
child. Under-nourished children of all ages should have a quart of 
milk ; children in their teens may drink more." 

American National Red Cross Organised Activities in Nutrition. 

In an effort to improve existing health conditions, to combat 
malnutrition, and to safeguard the physical welfare of the family, Red 
Cross Chapters conduct organised activities in nvitrition. A Nutrition 
Consultant is maintained at national headquarters to whom Chapters 
may refer problems relating to these activities. 



259 — 



Nutrition A ctivities. 



[a) Programmes in nutrition utilising the services of a well qualified 
nutritionist on a full-time or part-time paid basis are conducted as 
a part of a general health programme in a community. The type of 
nutrition work developed depends upon the health and nutritional 
needs of the community and Chapter funds. 

(6) Food and nutrition classes are offered as short-time low-cost 
projects with an instructor authorised by national headquarters serving 
on a volunteer or paid basis. The instructor must be a graduate from 
an accredited school in home economics with satisfactory teaching 
experience. These classes provide practical instruction on adequate 
diets at minimum and moderate costs, the wise spending of food dollars, 
meal planning and the proper methods of preparing foods. 

Nutrition in the Service Programmes of Red Cross Chapters. 

Assistance is given by the Nutrition Consultant to public health nurses 
and home hygiene and care of the sick instructors, home service and 
civilian home service secretaries on effective ways of applying nutrition 
which will enable them to render a broader social and health service 
to their families. 

Local home economists in Red Cross Chapters are invited to serve 
on such Chapter Committees as Nutrition, Disaster Preparedness, Home 
Service, Civilian Home Service and Canteen in an effort to further 
safeguard the health and nutrition of the families for whom the Chapter 
has assumed responsibility. 

Uruguay. 

The services of the Ministry of Health which deal with the problem 
of nutrition are the Department of Nutrition and Dietetics and the 
National Commission for Rational Nutrition. 

Department of Nutrition and Dietetics. 

Created in 1934, this Department is responsible for the organisation 
of rational nutrition throughout the ramifications of the Ministry's 
work, for establishing a national nutrition index based on data regarding 
various groups, classes and communities. 

In the current year, the Department has reorganised the dietaries 
of the hospital services of the Public Health Department. In the first 
place, it laid down health rules for staff handling foodstuffs, for meal- 
times and for the standardisation of diets so as to harmonise the dietetic 
prescriptions with the practical resources of the kitchens and their 
staff. The good results of this work have already been noted at the 
Pasteur Hospital. 



— 26o 

The Department is at present organising an enquiry to determine 
the nutrition coefficient of the country. For this purpose, it is preparing 
a family nutrition record card to be filled in with particulars as to 
total monthly income, the number of members of the family, and giving 
detailed daily menus. 

The enquiry will, as the preliminary step, be confined" to the capital ; 
the cards will be distributed to various official and private institutions, 
having a large staff which will be instructed how to fill them in. Thus, 
in a short time, documentary material will be collected relating to at 
least 5% of the population of the capital. 

The Department is also continuing the dietetic reorganisation begun 
at the Pasteur Hospital. When this has been terminated, all the hospital 
services of the Public Health Department will benefit bv the results. 

The Department is also preparing a publication on " Foodstuffs and 
Nutrition " which will be used as a textbook for the courses in nutrition 
and dietetics at the School of Social Service. This publication will 
be widely circulated and will thus assist the popular educational work 
undertaken by the Commission for Rational Nutrition. 



National Commission for Rational Nutrition. 

This organisation, which plays an active part in spreading knowledge 
of nutrition, has been attached to the Ministry of Public Health. From 
April 1935, it has been in command of funds to enable it to carry out 
an extensive scheme covering various aspects of the problem of popular 
nutrition. 

The Commission consists of an executive sub-committee, and an 
advisory sub-committee composed of experts in nutrition, national 
economy, agriculture, banking, etc., whose opinion is sought whenever 
any problem arises that comes within its technical competence. 

The Commission has included the following points in its programme 
of action for the immediate future : 

(a) Continuation of popular education in the principles of 
rational nutrition ; 

{b) Effective participation of the Ministry of Public Health 
in the control of milk and in the organisation of similar services 
prescribed in the organic law concerning the inspection of foodstuffs. 

Research Work. 

In the domain of science, there has been established in the Ministry 
of Health a Laboratory for biological research in matters of nutrition ; 
in this Laboratory, which is attached to the Commission on Rational 
Nutrition, the scientists of the country continue their fundamental 
and permanent work of determining the composition and nutrient value 



26l - — 

of national products, the knowledge of which is becoming gradually' 
more complete, and also carry out researches to serve as the basis of 
technical improvements for the benefit of the whole community. 
The Laboratory has already published data connected with experiments 
concerning " Poisonous Varieties of Mushrooms in Uruguay ", the 
" Influence of Vitamin A on the Growth of the Fur of White Rats ", 
the " Action of Diphtheria Toxin on Vitamin C of the Tissues ", 
" Hypervitaminosis A ", the " Pathology of Equine Scurvy ", the 
" Vitamin C Content of Foodstuffs in Uruguay ", " Vitamin C in the 
Diet of Infants ". 

It is intended to publish during the year a first series of results obtained 
in connection with the " Chemical Composition of Foodstuffs ". The 
Laboratory will continue its research work in the various branches of 
experimental dietetics, in particular " Vitamins ", " Avitaminosis ", 
" Fluorisis ", the " PH of the Soil and Vegetable Growth ", the 
" Nutrient Value of Cereals and Native Vegetables ", etc. The plan 
to attach an experimental kitchen to the Laboratory as an important 
adjunct to dietetical research will also be carried out this year. At 
present, consideration is being given to the possibility of using the 
technical services of the Agronomic Section of the Ministry of Public 
Health with a view to improving equipment and alimentary products 
in public health establishments. 

Education. 

Educational propaganda has been conducted with a view to inculcating 
into the population definite ideas on a properly balanced dietary and the 
necessity for consuming, in addition to protein foods, such as meat — of 
which the country has ample supplies — also vegetables, fruits, etc. 
The propaganda pamphlets issued by the Commission for Rational 
Nutrition and the important nutrition exhibitions and various series 
of lectures which are broadcast every year throughout the country are 
of importance in this connection. 

In 1935, the Official Broadcasting Service organised two series of 
lectures on modern problems connected with the nutrition of infants 
and schoolchildren, the role played by fruits and vegetables in human 
nutrition, the pasteurising and hygienic preservation of milk, nutrition 
and physical development, etc. 

In educational circles, future schoolmistresses are required under 
the regvilations to follow a course of domestic economy, which includes 
theoretical and practical lessons on the composition of foodstuffs and 
their preparation ; these courses are given by trained teachers. Lessons 
on the preparation and food value of a standard bill of fare are also 
included in the curriculum of a number of private schools. 

The School of Rational and Economic Dietetics gives mothers 
theoretical and practical training in the preparation of foodstuffs and 
their composition at the milk dispensaries in various parts of the capital ; 



— 262 — 

this training is in the charge of a specialised woman dietician. Similar 
courses, with the same educational objects, are also given by the 
Uruguayan Red Cross and a number of private institutions. 

In 1936, at the School of Social Service, a course on nutrition and 
dietetics for nurses was begun. In the first year, lectures will be given 
concerning the composition and properties of foodstuffs and the general 
preparation of dietaries ; in the second year, the students will study 
special dietetics. This course is accompanied by numerous practical 
demonstrations and the lectures are given by the technical members 
of the Commission on Nutrition. 

Popular Instruction. 

Propaganda compaigns have been organised to encourage the con- 
sumption of Uruguayan fruit and honey. 

The third " People's Nutrition Exhibition " is being prepared. This 
exhibition, as in previous years, will be a demonstration of the country's 
resources in the production of natural and prepared foodstuffs, and will 
also provide an excellent opportunity for disseminating the essential 
principles of rational nutrition. 

Yugoslavia. 

Research. 

There is a special State organisation in Yugoslavia in connection 
with public health which covers all questions of hygiene and medico- 
social problems. The public health institutes and institutions are 
engaged on a thorough study of all these questions. 

Statistical material with regard to nutrition is assembled by the 
Central Health Institute at Belgrade, the Public Health School at 
Zagreb and other public health institutions. The material is derived 
from direct enquiries by special experts regularly visiting the homes 
of the rural population, or is based on the reports of reliable observers 
(schoolmasters or peasants) instructed to note daily the dietary standard 
in each house in the villages. 

Education. 

The domestic economy schools in the country for women and 3'oung 
girls are founded and maintained by the Ministry of Public Instruction 
and by a number of private women's associations, by the Central Health 
Institute at Belgrade, the Public Health School at Zagreb and other 
public health institutions throughout the country. 

The teaching staff for such schools and courses are trained at the 
higher domestic economy school at Stari Futog, which is attended by 
eighty students. There are 497 domestic economy schools and courses, 
all permanent. Many of them are maintained by the State, while a 



— 263 — 

smaller number are maintained by the banovines. There are also 
travelling courses, where the municipalities ask for them ; the 
municipalities in such cases have to take a share in their maintenance. 
In 1935, in the different banovines, there were 104 courses of this kind 
with 2,333 pupils. There are also a considerable number of private 
schools and courses of domestic economy. 

Popular Instruction. 

Permanent health exhibitions have been organised at the health 
institutes of Zagreb and Belgrade, and there are similar exhibitions 
also in the fifty public health institutions. They are of an itinerant 
nature and move from village to village, carrying an ample supply 
of propaganda material in favour or rational nutrition. They are well 
attended ; all schoolchildren and soldiers are required to visit them. 

The Yugoslav Temperance Association organises " fruit weeks " 
every year in towns of a certain size, during which propaganda is carried 
on to encourage the consumption of fruit. 



REPORT OF THE SUB- COMMITTEE ON FOOD STATISTICS 
OF THE MIXED COMMITTEE ON THE PROBLEM 

OF NUTRITION. 



General Remarks 

In accordance with the decision taken by the Mixed Committee 
on the Problem of Nutrition at its first session in February 1936, the 
Sub-Committee on Food Statistics held a meeting at the International 
Institute of Agriculture, Rome, on March 13th to i6th, 1936, under 
the Chairmanship of M. J. J. L. van Rijn. 

The purpose of the meeting was : 

{a) To enable the Mixed Committee on the Problem of Nutrition 
to obtain as clear a picture as possible of the statistical material 
available on the production, human consumption and prices, including 
the trends in recent years, of foodstuffs (cereals, sugar, milk and other 
dairy products, meat, poultry and eggs, fresh vegetables and fruit), 
with special reference to the " protective " foods ; 

(b) To suggest the directions in which Governments should be 
urged to improve their statistical information in this field. 

The Sub-Committee also discussed the collection of data concerning 
the extent and purpose of the financial assistance received by national 
agriculture directh^ or indirectly from Governments and/or other public 
authorities. 

REPORT. 

The Sub-Committee considered the moment opportune for drawing 
attention to statistics of food consumption and for stimulating the 
interest of Governments in view of the fact that, during the year, both 
the annual Conference of the International Labour Organisation, 
the Assembly of the League of Nations and the General Assembly of 
the International Institute of Agriculture would discuss questions 
of nutrition in relation to agriculture. Moreover, the meeting of 
representatives of Government statistical services, which the International 
Institute of Agriculture proposes to call this year for the purpose of 
preparing for the World Agricultural Census of 1940, might provide 
the means of taking practical steps towards realising some of the measures 
proposed in this report. 

The Sub-Committee decided to exclude from its consideration, at 
this stage, the position in Asiatic and tropical countries. 



— a66 — 

Food Supply Statistics. 

The Sub-Committee considered for each of the principal groups of 
products the available statistics of production, of imports and exports, 
of stocks, of supplies used for purposes of non-human consumption, 
and also the information available from household budget enquiries 
as to the actual quantities of food purchased for household consumption. 
In view of the difficulties encountered in obtaining the quantities of 
certain foodstuffs actually used, the Sub-Committee recognised that 
household budget enquiries had considerable value in supplementing 
and correcting the information available from statistics of national 
production and trade. Such enquiries form, moreover, the only means 
of showing how food consumption varies in different social classes of 
the community. The Sub-Committee therefore hopes that the Inter- 
national Labour Office will continue to make available the results of 
such enquiries and to urge Governments which have not conducted 
such enquiries in recent years to do so. 

Cereals. 

It was considered that production statistics for cereals were fairly 
complete and reliable. Consumption statistics, on the other hand, 
were very difficult to obtain. They can, in some cases, however, be 
obtained from production, trade and stocks figures, after allowance 
has been made for quantities utilised for seed and animal feeding. 
Of these items, statistics for stocks are not, in most cases, available, 
though it can be said that, in recent years, there has been some 
improvement in the collection of these data. Another difficulty is the 
uncertainty as to the quantity fed to animals, which varies greatly 
as between different countries and from one year to another. 

It was recognised that a more solid basis for estimating human 
consumption of cereals might be provided by adequate milling statistics. 
As a general rule, these statistics are not at present sufficiently complete, 
while in many countries they are not available. 

The Sub-Committee came to the decision that the Governments of 
countries in which statistics of cereal stocks and production of flour 
are not collected should be urged to compile them, while those which 
do compile such statistics already might be asked to improve them and 
to make them more regular and comprehensive. 

The Sub-Committee's attention was drawn to the fact that an 
exhaustive report on human consumption of wheat had been prepared 
by the International Wheat Advisory Committee. 

Sugar. 

The available data on production, imports and exports of sugar are, 
apart from some gaps in the figures of stocks, sufficiently accurate and 
complete in most countries to provide a satisfactory basis for estimating 
human consumption. 



— 267 — 



Milk. 



The statistics of milk production were recognised to be very 
unsatisfactory. Very few countries possess regular annual data of milk 
production, and the reliability of these data is often doubtful, as the 
total production figures are normally arrived at indirectly from the 
number of milk cows and the estimated average yield per cow. 

The absence of adequate production statistics makes estimates of 
national consumption of milk in most cases impossible. A basis for 
judging the trend to consumption may, however, be obtained from the 
quantities entering certain towns, and the Sub-Committee expressed 
the desire that, in order to supplement national consumption data, 
an attempt should be made to make use of such data. At the same time. 
Governments should be urged to collect or to improve their national 
statistics of milk production and consumption. 

As regards condensed milk, statistical data of production and con- 
sumption can be obtained fairly easily, as factory output and exports can 
be ascertained reasonably closely and the countries where this commodity 
is produced in substantial quantities are few in number. It is, however, 
desirable to ascertain whether there are other countries which are of 
importance as condensed-milk producers and for which statistics are 
at present lacking or incomplete. 

Other Dairy Products. 

For butter and cheese, the statistical position is somewhat better 
than for milk, because data on production exist for a larger number 
of important producing countries. However, statistics are not always 
comprehensive, since, in many cases, they do not include production 
on farms, but are confined to factory production or to co-operative 
dairies. Improvements in the statistical data collected by the 
Governments are considered highly desirable in this branch, in view 
of the great importance of these products. 

Meat. 

The technical difficulties of a statistical study of the production 
and consumption of meat were discussed. It was agreed that a starting- 
point for estimating production could be found in slaughter-house 
statistics, but that it would be necessary to have uniform data, not only 
for the numbers of animals slaughtered, but also for the actual weight 
of meat produced. Moreover, slaughter-house statistics should be 
supplemented by reliable estimates of other slaughterings. It was 
considered desirable to urge Governments to improve their collection 
of meat production statistics in this sense, or to start collecting them 
where they are not at present available. For this purpose, it would be 
useful to furnish Governments with examples of the methods adopted 
in countries where these statistics are best organised. 



— 268 — 

Poultry and Eggs. 

Regular statistics of poultry and egg production exist in very few 
countries. The chief difficulty in compiling statistics of this branch 
of production arises out of the small-scale character of a large proportion 
of the poultry industry. 

At the same time, the importance of this rapidly growing branch 
of production is such that an improvement in its statistics is considered 
highly desirable. 

Vegetables. 

The statistics of potato production may be considered fairly complete 
and accurate, but they cannot supply a reliable basis for estimating 
human consumption, because the quantities used for feeding to animals 
and for industrial uses vary greatly according to countries and from year 
to year. 

For fresh vegetables in general, the difficulty of obtaining complete 
statistics of production was recognised to be particularly great owing 
to the large quantities grown in small home gardens and allotments. 

In the case of some products, such as onions and tomatoes, for which 
there exist sufficiently complete production statistics for several 
important producing countries, the position is somewhat better. For 
other vegetables, a possibility of approximately estimating the trends 
of consumption can be found in the use of municipal data on quantities 
brought to market in some large cities. 

Frit it. 

For those fruits, such a citrous fruits or bananas, for which most 
European countries depend upon imports, trade figures supply a 
satisfactory basis for estimating actual consumption. For other fruits, 
such as apples, pears, etc., there exist only scattered data of very unequal 
value. 

For apples, in the case of those countries whose exports represent 
a substantial part of total production, the trend of production can be 
obtained from the trade figures. 

In recent years, a certain improvement in fruit production statistics 
has been noted in some countries, and, though the special difficulty 
of compiling these statistics is recognised, the Sub-Committee considered 
it highly desirable that this example should be followed by other 
countries. 

Prices. 

It was agreed that statistics of prices, particularly of those relating to 
the productive foods, should be collected and studied. These prices 
should be related as far as possible to the trends during recent years 
in various countries, including changes in production and consumption. 
A comparison of wholesale and retail prices should also be made both 
nationally and for the principal importing countries. 



— 269 — 

Financial Assistance to Agriculture. 

The Sub-Committee discussed the desirability of a study of the 
financial aspects of the various measures of assistance received by 
agriculture in different countries and of the effects of such measures 
upon the development of the production, imports and exports of foods 
in the countries concerned. Such a study was considered very useful 
and the Sub-Committee recommended that it should be undertaken. 

Conclusions : Requests to the International Institute of Agriculture. 

In conclusion, the Sub-Committee decided to ask the International 
Institute of Agriculture : ^ 

(a) To furnish such information as exists on the consumption 
of cereals, sugar, meat, milk and other dairy products, poultry and 
eggs, fresh vegetables and fruit ; 

(6) To show as far as possible the trends of production, consumption 
and prices of these products in those countries for which reasonably 
complete statistics are available ; 

(c) To obtain municipal data on the quantities of milk and fresh 
vegetables entering certain large cities and to utilise these data to 
supplement the information referred to under (a) and {b) ; 

{d) To continue its established policy of improving agricultural 
statistics, giving special attention to the deficiencies in the material 
now available on the protective foods, and to draw the attention 
of each Government to the particular directions in which improvement 
is desirable ; 

(e) To collect data bearing on the financial aspects of the assistance 
received by the national agriculture of various countries and on the 
effects of such assistance on the production, imports and exports 
of foods ; 

(/) To collect and study wholesale and retail prices, particularly 
of the protective foods, and to relate such price data to the trends 
in production and consumption in various countries. 

* 
* * 

Annex. 

Memorandum by the Chairman on the Need for investigating 

THE Effects of a Widespread Improvement of Popular 

Nutrition upon the Demand for Agricultural Products. 

During the discussions in the Sub-Committee, the question was 
raised whether an attempt should not be inade to indicate by a few 



1 The results of the enquiries undertaken in accordance with these requests are contained in Volume IV 
of the report of the Mixed Committee entitled, " Statistics of Food Production, Consumption and Prices." 



— 270 — 

examples the extent to which the demand for agricultural products 
might be increased, if it were found possible to effect improvements 
in nutrition on the lines advocated by the hygienist and the physiologist. 
From the hvgienic standpoint, it should not be difficult to convince 
the authorities in the different countries of the great social importance 
of improvements in nutrition, alike for Governments and for the great 
mass of the population. 

From an economic standpoint, it appeared desirable that a connection 
should be established between the movement which the League of 
Nations desires to organise and the agricultural departments and 
associations in the different countries. 

The Sub-Committee's report indicates the statistical information 
which is available and which might be introduced into the Mixed 
Committee's preliminary report, and formulates recommendations 
to be made bv the League to the Governments and to municipal 
authorities for the improvement and completion of their statistics, 
particularlv as regards the production and the consumption of protective 
foods. 

The Sub-Committee was unanimously of opinion that it is highly 
important that certain statistical information should be collected, 
having reference to the probable consequences of an improvement in 
nutrition on the demand for agricultural food products. In present 
conditions, it is, as a matter of fact, impossible for the time being to 
give a complete and accurate statistical picture in this regard, or to 
consider the question from a world point of view. It is, however, believed 
to be possible to present certain illustrations indicating the probable 
increase in demand which would follow on the adoption of an optimum 
regime of nutrition by the majority of the population in different 
countries. If it were successfully demonstrated to all w'ho are principally 
interested in an increase in the demands for agricultural, horticultural, 
animal and dairy products, how and to what degree an improved 
nutrition would in the end lead to an increase in consumption and 
therefore to an increase in demand for such products, the collaboration 
alike of agricultural authorities, of farmers and of the rural population 
would be ensured. Such collaboration would be beneficial, not only 
from the moral as also the social standpoint, but also in view of 
propaganda for better feeding in the rural areas. 

Such are the reasons w'hich have led the Sub-Committee to request 
the International Institute of Agriculture to add a special appendix 
on this subject to the statistical information to be supplied b}- the 
Institute to the Mixed Committee. To this end, an endeavour should 
be made to select two or more countries as to which the documentation 
available is sufficient to make it possible to arrive at a satisfactory 
conclusion. It is considered that, in addition to statistical documentation 
on production, consumption and stocks, a valuable source of information 
is to be found in the information on family budgets for certain groups 
of consumers collected by the International Labour Office. 



— 271 — 

Fruit Preserves. 

It has also been considered that it might be desirable to investigate 
the question to what extent fresh fruits are converted into the form 
of jams and marmalades, for it has been suggested that, by such 
conversion, it is possible that the protective value of the fruits may be 
destroyed. The Institute will endeavour to obtain some information 
on this subject. 



>< 



AUTHORISED AGENTS FOR THE PUBLICATIONS 

OF THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS 



ARGENTINE 

Librerla " El Ateneo ", calle Florida, 
371, Buenos Aires. 

AUSTRALIA (Commonwealth of) 

H. A. Goddard, Ltd., 255^., George 
Street, Sydney. 

AUSTRIA 

Manz'sche Verlags- und Universi- 
tatsbuchhandlung, Kohlmarkt 20, 
Vienna I. 

BELGIUM 

Agence Dechenne, Messageries de 
la Presse, S.A., 16-22, rue du 
Persil, Brussels. 

BOLIVIA 

Arn6 Hermanos, Calle Illimani, Nos. 
10-20, La Paz. 

RAZIL 

" Livraria Allema ", Frederico Will, 
rua da Alfandega, 69, Rio de 
Janeiro. 

ULGARIA 

Librairie Fran9ai3e et Etrang^re, 
J. Carasso & Cie., Bd. " Tsar 
Osvobpditel", No. 8, Sofia. 

H NADA 

League of Nations Society in Canada, 
124, Wellington Street, Ottawa, 

UTiLE 

Carlos Niemeyer, Libreria Universal, 
Cas. 293, Valparaiso. 

CFtNA 

Commercial Press, Ltd., Sales Office, 
211, Honan Road, Shanghai. 

C IMBIA 

Libraria Voluntad S.A., calle Real, 
Nos. 297-301, Bogota. 

C) A 

La Casa Belga, Rene de Smedt, 
O'Reilly, 59, Havana. 

HOSLOVAKIA 

I J.ibrairie F. Topic, 11, Narodni, 
Prague. 



DANZIG (Free City of) 

Georg Stilke, Buchhandlung, Lang- 
gasse 27, Danzig. 

DENMARK 

Levin & Munksgaard, Publishers, 
Norregade 6, Copenhagen. ' 

ECUADOR 

Victor Janer, Guayaquil. 
EGYPT 

G.M.'s Book Shop, 116, Sharia Emad 

El Din (Opp. Davies Bryan), 

Cairo. 

ESTONIA 

Akadeemiline Kooperatiiv, tjlikooli 
Tan. 15. Tartus. 

FINLAND 

Akateeminen Kirjakauppa, Keskus- 
katu 2, Helsinki. 

FRANCE 

Editions A. Pedone, 13, rue SouflBlot, 
Paris (Ve). 

GERMANY 

Carl Heymanns Verlag, Mauerstrasse 
44, Berlin, W.8. 

GREAT BRITAIN, NORTHERN IRELAND 
AND THE CROWN COLONIES 

George Allen & Unwin, Ltd., 40, 
Museum Street, London, W.C.i. 

GREECE 

" Eleftheroudakis ", Librairie Inter- 
nationale, Place de la Constitution, 

Athens. 

GUATEMALA 

Goubaud & Cia., Ltda., Sucesor, 
Guatemala. 

HAITI 

Librairie-Papeterie Mme. D. Viard, 
angle des rues du Centre et des 
Casernes, Port-au-Prince. 

HUNGARY 

Librairie Grill, Dorottya utca 2, 
Budapest. 

ICELAND 

Peter Halldorsson, Reykjavik. 



INDIA 

The Book Company, Ltd., College 
Square, 4/4A. Calcutta. 

League of Nations (Indian Bureau), 
Improvement Trust Building, 
Esplanade Road, Bombay, I. 

IRISH FREE STATE 

Eason & Son, Ltd., 79-82, Middle 
Abbey Street, Dublin. 

ITALY 

S. A. Editrice G. C. Sansoni, Viale 
Mazzini 26, Florence (114). 

JAPAN 

League of Nations Tokio Office, 

Marunouchi C.-13, Tokio. 
Maruzen Co., Ltd., (Maruzen- 

Kabushiki-Kaisha), 6, Nihonbashi 

Tori-Nichome, Tokio. 
Mitsukoshi Limited, Surugacho, 

Nihonbashi, Tokio. 

LATVIA 

Latvijas Telegrafa Agentura " Leta ", 
Kr. Barona iela, 4, Riga. 
LUXEMBURG (Grand-Duchy of) 

Librairie J. Schummer, Place Guil- 
laume, 5, Luxemburg. 

MEXICO 

Central de Publicaciones, S.A. (Antes 
Agenda Misrachi), Edificio " La 
Nacional ", Av. Juarez 4, Mexico, 
D.F. ' 

NETHERLANDS 

Martinus Nijhoff, Boekliandelaar- 
Uitgever, Lange Voorhout g, The 
Hague. 

NETHERLANDS INDIES 

Algemeene Boekhandel G. Kolff & 
Co., Batavia-Weltevreden. 
NEW ZEALAND 

Messrs. Whitcombe & Tombs, Ltd., 
Booksellers, Christchurch. 

NORWAY 

Olaf Norli, Universitetsgaten, 24, 
Oslo. 

PANAMA 

Isidro A. Belviche, Apartado 755, 
Avenida Norte No. 49, Panama. 

PARAGUAY 

Libreria Internacional Santiago 
Puigbonet, Casilla de Correo 581, 
Asuncion. 



POLAND 

Gebethner & Wolflf, ulica Zgodal 
Warsaw. 

PORTUGAL 

J. Rodrigues & Cia., Rua 
186-188, Lisbon. 

ROUMANIA 

" Cartea Rom&neasck ", 3-5, B<^ 
Regele Carol I, Bucharest, ] 

SOUTH AFRICA (Union of) ^ 

Maskew Miller, Ltd., 29, Adderle 
Street, Cape Town. 

SPAIN ^ 

Libreria Bosch, Ronda UniversidJ 

II, Barcelona. 
Libreria Internacional de Roi 

Alcala, 5, Madrid. 

SWEDEN 

C. E. Fritze, Hofbokhandel, Fre 
gatan, 2, Stockholm. 

SWITZERLAND 

Librairie Payot & Cie, Genev/ 
Lausanne, Vevey, Montreux 
Neuchatel, Berne and Basle 

Hans Raunhardt, Buchhandlung 
Kirchgasse 17, Zurich, I. 

TURKEY 

Librairie Hachette, Succursale d 
Turquie, 469, Av. de I'lndd 
pendance, Boite postale 2215 
Istanbul. 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

World Peace Foundation, 8, 
40th Street, New York, N.Y. 
and 40, Mt. Vernon Street, Boston 

Mass. 

VENEZUELA 

Libreria Alejandro d'Empaire 
Traposos a Col6n, 36, Apartad( 
postal 274, Caracas. 

YUGOSLAVIA (Kingdom of) 

Librairie Geca Kon S.A., 12 ru 

Knez Mihailova, Belgrade. 
Librairie de I'Universit^ et de I'Aca 

demie Yougoslave, St. Kugli, Ilica 

30, Zagreb. 
Knjigarna " Schwentner ", Pres 

nova ulica, Ljubljana. 




i 



For other Countries, apply : 
PUBLICATIONS DEPARTMENT OF THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS 

GENEVA (Switzerland). 



University of Toronto 
Library 





Acme Library Card Pocket 
LOWE-MARTIN CO. Limited 




