PUBLICATION 501 ISSUED APRIL. 1936 

HOUSEHOLD BULLETIN 2 FIRST REVISION 

DOMINION OF CANADA, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 



HONEY AND SOME OF THE 
WAYS IT MAY BE USED 



630.4 
C212 
P 501 
1936 
c.2 



By 

C. B. G00DERHAM 

AND 

M. L. HEENEY 



1*1 



Agriculture and Agriculture el Canadian Agriculture Library 

Agri-Food Agroalimentaire Bibliolheque canadienne de I'agnculture 

Canada Canada Ottawa K1 A 0C5 




BEE DIVISION 
DOMINION EXPERIMENTAL FARMS 



§ 



Published by authority of the Hon. JAMES G. GARDINER. Minister of Apiculture 
Ottawa, Canada 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



Page 

The use of honey in home cooking * 

Breads and rolls '_ 

Honey bread 

Honey Graham l>rcad 

c 

Swedish tea ring 

Parker house rolls 

( lakes and cookies 

Honey date rake ' 

Honey fruit cake 

Honey chocolate cake 

Honey raisin and spice cake 

Honey angel cake 

Honey pound cake 

Honey cake 

( tineerbread 

Cocoanul macaroons 

Honey ice box cookies 

Honey sour cream cookies .. 

Honey oatmeal cookies with date filling ll 

Honey hermits 

Honey snaps 

Honey nut squares _ 

Honey eocoanut stacks 

Honey date bars 

Honey drop cookies 

Candy and confections 

Honied peel 

Honey divinity fudge 

Honey chocolate fudge 

Honey pulled taffy 

Honied fruit stripe 

Pies, puddings and ice cream 

Honey lemon pie 

Honey pumpkin pie 

Honey cracker pie 

Chocolate pie filling 

Honey pecan pie 

Honey steamed pudding * 5 

Honey Graham pudding 15 

Steamed date pudding 

Steamed chocolate pudding 

Honey plum pudding 

Honey junket 

Honey orange custard 

Honey baked custard le 

Honied baked apples 

Honey vanilla ice cream * ' 

Honey strawberry ice cream " 

Honey chocolate ice cream .' 

15258—2 



TABLE OF CONTENTS— Concluded 

Page 

Muffins, doughnuts, etc 17 

Oatmeal muffins 17 

Honey muffins 17 

Hot honey bran cakes 18 

Honey steamed brown bread 18 

Honey nut and date bread 18 

Honey doughnuts 18 

Breakfast fruits sweetened with honey 18 

Marmalade and fruit butters 19 

Honey orange and carrot marmalade 19 

Honey orange syrup 19 

Honey apricot butter 19 

Honey prune butter 19 

Honey sandwich fillings 19 

Honey and peanut butter 19 

Honey and nut 19 

Honey and cheese 20 

Honey fruit and nut spread 20 

Miscellaneous 20 

Honey boiled icing 20 

Chocolate paste 20 

Chocolate sauce 20 

Hot and cold chocolate 20 

Canning 20 



HONEY 

AND SOME OF THE WAYS IT MAY BE USED 

By 
C. B. GOODERHAM, B.S.A., Dominion Apiarist 

AND 

M. L. HEENEY, Specialist in the Cooking and Preserving of Foods 

Before the introduction of cane sugar, honey was apparently the most 
common sweet available for human consumption. In very early times man 
discovered the bees' habit of storing, in their nests, large quantities of a sweet 
and delectable substance that could be taken from them and used as food. 
Since those early days it has also been learned that the bees themselves could 
be housed in specially constructed boxes (hives) and be made to work more 
efficiently for the benefit of man, so that to-day the production of honey has 
become a fascinating and profitable enterprise. It may surprise many of our 
readers to know that during the year 1931 Canada alone produced 29,666,097 
pounds of this delicious sweet. 

Honey is the nectar of flowers gathered by the honeybees and ripened by 
them within their hives. The ripening process consists of evaporating the 
excess moisture from the nectar and of certain changes in the chemical nature 
of the sugars it contains. 

A well-ripened honey contains approximately 17-2 per cent moisture, 75 
per cent sugars, and small quantities of protein, dextrin, minerals and certain 
volatile substances that give to it its aroma and flavour. Honey may, therefore, 
be classified as a concentrated solution of sugar having a distinctive flavour and 
aroma, and being this, it belongs to that class of foods which supplies heat and 
energy to the body and must not be compared with such foods as meat, eggs, 
etc., that are used to repair body tissues. 

The sugars found in honey are: fruit sugar (levulose), grape sugar 
(dextrose), and cane sugar (sucrose). The latter is present in small amounts 
only. 

Levulose and dextrose are invert sugars, sometimes called predigested 
sugars. Invert sugars are the result of the breaking down or digestion of cane 
sugar (sucrose), a process that must be performed by the digestive system before 
such sugar can be assimilated by the body. In honey this process of digestion 
has been completed; therefore the sugars in honey arc immediately available for 
assimilation without placing a heavy tax on the digestive system. For this 
reason honey is especially adapted as food for children and those suffering from 
impaired digestion. 

Levulose is a non-granulating sugar and is the sweetest sugar so far found 
in nature. As this sugar is usually the predominating one found in honey, the 
latter has a slightly greater sweetening power than an equal amount of sucrose. 

Dextrose is a rapid granulating sugar and has less sweetening power than 
sucrose. This sugar is predominant in commercial syrups. 

Although the mineral content of honey is very small, it is worth noting that 
such elements as lime, iron, and others that are necessary to the well-being of 
the human body are present. 

Honey varies in colour from water white to a very dark brown according 
to the kind of flowers from which it is gathered. Colour, however, does not 

5 

15258—24 



6 

affect its food value in any way. The difference in colour is caused by certain 
substances, in tbc nectar of different flowers, that absorb the rays of light in 
varying degrees. 

The flavours of honey vary just as much as it- colour and there is no diffi- 
culty in finding a flavour to stiit the most discriminating taste. As a rule the 
lighter the colour of honey the more delicate is its flavour; therefore when honey 
is to be substituted for sugar in cooking, it is the light-coloured honeys that are 
recommended, hut where it is used as a substitute for jams, marmalades, etc., 
each and every colour or flavour has its advocates. Flavour is essential to the 
enjoyment of food and for this reason honey with its many delicate flavours 
should have a very special appeal. 

All Canadian honey granulates sooner or later, depending largely upon the 
proportion of the two invert sugars it contains. The greater the proportion of 
levulose to dextrose, the longer will the honey remain in liquid form. Low 
temperatures also hasten granulation, while high temperatures retard it. Honey 
sold in glass containers is usually heated when packed for the purpose of keeping 
the honey liquid for as long a period as possible. Rapid granulation usually 
produces a fine texture, while slow granulation tend- to coarseness. Granulation 
is not an indication of adulteration, as many people seem to think, but it is 
rather a sign of purity. 

Granulated honey can be brought back to its liquid form by standing the 
container in water and heating it to 150 degrees Fahrenheit. A higher tempera- 
ture than that is likely to darken the colour of the honey and drive off aroma 
and flavour. As soon as the honey has become liquid, cool it as rapidly as 
possible, hut do not put it into the refrigerator. 

Honey absorb- moisture from the air and loses aroma and flavour rapidly; 
:t should not he left uncovered any longer than is necessary. Keep 
extracted honey in a cool, dry place, but homy in comb should he stored where 
it is warm and dry. 

It has already been stated that honey varies in some of its characteri-i 
therefore it has been found necessary to classify and grade it according to it- 
colour and quality. The colour classes most commonly used are "White," 
"Golden," "Amber," and "Dark." Colour, however, does not affect the food 
value of honey; from the nutritional standpoint, all have equal value, but the 
flavour of the darker coloured honeys is usually much stronger than in lighter 
coloured honeys. The quality grades of honey are Nos. 1, 2 and 3. indicating 
texture, density, flavour, etc. The lighter coloured and highly graded honeys 
are especially adapted for table use and are usually more expensive than the 
dark or low graded honey, a fact that must be taken into consideration by the 
city housewife when purchasing honey for cooking purposes. The lower grades 
of honey are equally as good as the higher grades when used as a substitute for 
sugar in cooking, but the dark, strongly flavoured honeys should be avoided 
when delicate flavours are desired in the finished product. 

To the country housewife, especially those who produce their own honey, 
value is usually of secondary importance, the question being "Can we use the 
honey we produce, but cannot sell, in place of sugar which we have to buy?" 
It is for them this pamphlet is primarily written. 

The most common way of using honey is to substitute it for jams, jellies, 
marmalades, etc., but as it is a concentrated solution of sugar it may be readily 
used in many other ways as a substitute for sugar with pleasing results, as Miss 
Heeney has shown in the following pages. 



THE USE OF HONEY IN HOME COOKING 

Honey may be used in home cooking as a substitute for sugar or molasses 
with delightful results, provided certain general rules are closely adhered to. 
Perhaps the chief advantage of using honey, especially in cakes, cookies, etc., 
is that they will remain moist for a much longer time than if sugar alone is used; 
bread, cakes, cookies, etc., in which honey is used in place of sugar will 
keep moist for long periods of time without any deterioration of flavour; in fact, 
the latter usually improves with a reasonable length of storage. A direct substi- 
tution of all honey for sugar may he made in cases where the amount of sweetening 
material is small, such as in muffins, bread, etc. In cakes, cookies, pies, etc., 
where greater sweetening is necessary, other things must be taken into con- 
sideration when using honey. Honey and sugar differ in their chemical com- 
position. Sugar is a straight sweet containing no moisture or acid, while honey 
(■•insists of different types of BUgar in solution with water, and contains a certain 
degree of acidity. The following rules are based on experimental work that has 
been done with honey in cooked fond-, and by following these general rules any 
recipe may be adapted to the use of honey: — 

1. Measure honey always in the liquid form. If it is granulated, heat over 
warm water until liquid. 

2. For every cup of honey used, reduce the liquid called for in the recipe 
by one-fifth. 

3. One cup of honey is as great in sweetening power as one cup of sugar. 

4. Use i to ^ teaspoon of soda to each cup of honey. 

5. Increase the amount of salt by £ to \ teaspoon. 

6. When substituting honey for sugar in cake, reduce the liquid of the recipe 
by one-fifth and use half honey and half sugar. Fruit cake is an exception to 
this rule and all honey may be used. 

7. In milk puddings, pie fillings, etc.. add the honey with the thickening 
agent — e.g., flour, cornstarch, etc. 

The following recipes have been thoroughly tested and proved by the writer 
in the Central Experimental Farm kitchen at Ottawa: — 

Bread and Rolls 

HONEY BREAD 

2 cups boiling water J yeast cake dissolved in 

2 tablespoons butter \ cup lukewarm water 

2 tablespoons honey 6 cups sifted flour 

2\ teaspoons salt 

Put honey, butter and salt in a large bowl, pour on boiling water; when luke- 
warm add dissolved yeast cake and five cupa of flour, then stir until thoroughly 
mixed, using a knife or mixing spoon. Add remaining flour, mix, and turn on 
a floured board, leaving a clean bowl; knead to mix ingredients until mixture 
is smooth, elastic to touch and bubbles may be seen under the surface. Some 
practice is required to knead quickly. Return to bowl, cover with a clean cloth 
and board or tin cover, let rise overnight in temperature of 65 degrees Fahren- 
heit. In the morning cut down, toss on board slightly floured, knead to dis- 
tribute air, shape into loaves or biscuits, place in greased pan, having pans 
nearly full. Cover, let rise again to double its bulk and bake in a hot oven. 
This recipe will make a loaf of bread and a pan of biscuits. 



HONEY GRAHAM BREAD 

1 cake yeast 2 tablespoons melted butter 

1 cup milk scalded and cooled 4 cups Graham flour 

4 tablespoons honey 1 cup sifted bread flour 

1 cup lukewarm water 1 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve yeast in lukewarm liquid, add honey, shortening and milk. Then add 
flour and salt gradually until dough is formed that can be handled. Knead 
thoroughly, being sure to keep dough soft. Cover and set aside in a warm 
place to rise for about 1£ hours. When double in bulk turn out on board and 
mould into loaves. Place in well-greased bread pan, and cover and let rise 
for about £ hour. Bake one hour. 

SWEDISH TEA RING 

-^ cup shortening % cup cold water 

i cup honey 1 egg 

^ cup boiling water ^ teaspoon salt 

I yeast cake 3 cups unsifted bread flour 

Cream honey and butter thoroughly and add the boiling water. Allow this 
mixture to cool and add yeast cake which has been dissolved in cold water. 
Stir until well mixed and add the beaten egg. Combine the flour and salt and 
sift the mixture. Blend thoroughly, cover the bowl with waxed paper and 
place in the refrigerator overnight, or until ready to use. 

Roll one-half of the above mixture into an oblong sheet about \ inch thick 
on a lightly floured board. Spread with two tablespoons of softened, but 
not melted butter and sprinkle with the following mixture: ^ cup brown sugar, 
\ teaspoon cinnamon, J cup each of blanched chopped almonds, strips of citron 
peel and washed raisins. Roll up like a jelly roll. 

Trim the ends and join to form a ring. Cut with scissors at intervals of 
about one inch from the outside to within one-half inch of the centre and turn 
each section lightly to the side. Brush the surface with egg white and allow to 
rise for two hours at room temperature. Bake for thirty minutes in a hot oven 
400 degrees Fahrenheit, 

The remainder of the dough may be used for a Swedish Tea Braid. 

Cut off three pieces of mixture of equal size and roll, using the hands, in 
pieces of uniform size, then braid. Put on a buttered sheet, cover, let rise, 
brush over with yolk of one egg, slightly beaten and diluted with one-half 
tablespoon of water and sprinkle with finely-chopped blanched almonds. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

1 cake yeast 5£ cups flour 

2 cups scalded milk l| teaspoons salt 
2 or 3 tablespoons honey J cup butter 

Dissolve yeast and honey in lukewarm milk. Add butter and half the 
flour. Beat until perfectly smooth, cover and let rise in a warm place until 
double in bulk (about 1 hour). Add salt and sufficient flour to make a dough 
that can be handled. Knead well, place in a greased bowl, cover and let rise 
until double in bulk. Roll out one-half inch thick, cut with a three-inch biscuit 
cutter, crease through centre with a dull-edged knife and fold over. Place in 
a well-greased shallow pan, cover and let rise until light (§ hour). Bake ten 
minutes in a hot oven. *" 



Cakes and Cookies 



HONEY DATE CAKE 



1 cup dates 

1 cup boiling water 

£ cup honey 

| cup brown sugar 

^ cup butter 



^ teaspoon salt 



3 teaspoons baking powder 
\ teaspoon soda 
1 egg 

1 cup chopped walnuts 

2 cups flour 



Cook dates with water, remove from fire, and cool. Add honey and brown 
sugar. Cream butter, add beaten eggs, then add date mixture. Add sifted dry 
ingredients and nuts. Bake in a buttered pan in a moderate oven 350 degrees 
Fahrenheit for 50 minutes. 



HONEY FRUIT CAKE 



1 cup butter 

1 cup honey 

6 eggs 

\ cup sour milk 

\ cup molasses 

1 lb. raisins 

1 lb. currants 

\ lb. almonds 

^ lb. glace cherries 



2 cups flour 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 teaspoon soda 

\\ teaspoons cinnamon 

\ teaspoon mace 

| teaspoon cloves 

| teaspoon allspice 

| cup grape juice or 

\ cup brandy 



1. Wash currants and raisins, dry. 

2. Blanch almonds, dry, cut in half. 

3. Cut cherries in half. 

4. Cream butter, add honey and egg yolks, creaming all thoroughly. 

5. Add sour milk and molasses. 

6. Measure and sift dry ingredients, sprinkle some of the flour on fruit and 
nuts. 

7. Add grape juice or brandy and sift in dry ingredients, mix thoroughly. 

8. Stir in floured fruit and nuts and mix very thoroughly. 

9. Line tins with at least eight thicknesses of paper, fill two-thirds full of 
mixture. 

10. Bake in a slow oven for about two hours. 



HONEY CHOCOLATE CAKE 



\ cup honey 

1 cup butter 

2 squares unsweetened 

chocolate 
2\ cups of any good cake flour 
\ teaspoon soda 



1 teaspoon vanilla 
^ cup brown sugar 
1 egg 

1 cup milk 

\ teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons baking powder 



Cream butter well with honey and sugar, add egg and beat well, then add 
melted chocolate. Add sifted dry ingredients and milk alternately. Bake in a 
moderate oven (350 degrees Fahrenheit). 



10 



HONEY RAISIN' AND SPICE CAKE 



1 cup brown sugar \ teaspoon nutmeg 

1 eup honey i teaspoon mace 

1 cup butter 4 cups flour 

2 eggs 2 teaspoons soda 

i teaspoon allspice 1 cup sour milk 

H teaspoons cinnamon 1 cup raisins 

1 teaspoon ginger \ teaspoon salt 

Cream butter well with honey and sugar, add eggs one at a time, and beat 
well. Add sour milk and dry ingredients sifted several times. Add raisins 
mixed with a little flour last. Bake in a moderate oven about one hour (Tem- 
perature 325 to 350 degrees Fahrenheit.! 

HONEY ANGEL CAKE 

h CU P fruit sugar i cup flour 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar ± teaspoon salt 

6 egg whites 1 teaspoon flavouring 

i cup honey 

Sift sugar five times. Sift flour five times. Combine and add ^ teaspoon 
cream of tartar. Sift five times again. Partially beat egg whites, add remaining 
cream of tartar, and salt, finish beating. Add honey to egg whites slowly, fold 
in dry ingredients carefully. Lastly add flavouring. Pour into an ungreased 
angel rake pan and start in a very slow oven, then increase the heat. 

HONEY POUND CAKE 

1 cup shortening 2 cups pastry flour 

1 cup sugar $ teaspoon ginger 

■f cup honey ^ teaspoon cinnamon 

4 eggs (beaten separately) | teaspoon soda 

i teaspoon lemon flavouring 

Cream the butter and sugar to a light cream. Beat egg volks until lemon- 
coloured and add to the first mixture, then add honey. Sift the flour with the 
spices and soda and add to the other mixture. Fold 'in stiffly beaten white* of 
eggs and flavouring. Beat five minutes. Put in a warm tin with high sides and 
bake for an hour in a moderate oven, 300 to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. 

HONEY CAKE 

h cup butter l cup Irn ik 

2 cup honey jl teaspoon vanilla 
-V cup sugar 2 cups cake flour 

2 e S8 s 3 teaspoons baking powder 

I teaspoon salt 

Sift the dry ingredients. Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, creaming it 
thoroughly with the fat. Add honey gradually and blend with butter and 
sugar. 

Beat egg yolks and add to first mixture. Add vanilla to milk. Add sifted 
dry ingredients alternately with the milk, beating just enough to mix ingredients 
Fold in Stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into a tin eight inches square and bake 
in a moderate oven about 350 degrees Fahrenheit, 



11 



OINOERBREAD 



i cup butter | cup honey 

| cup brown sugar 1 egg 

V cup sour milk 1 teaspoon soda 

i teaspoon salt 1^ cups of any good cake flour 

2 teaspoon ginger ', teaspoon cinnamon 

' teaspoon cloves 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Cream butter with honey and sugar thoroughly. Add egg and mix well. 

Add sour milk and dry ingredients which have been sifted. Bake in a moderate 

oven about 375 degrees Fahrenheit for 25 minutes. 

COCOA N IT MACAROON s 

1 egg white H cups shredded cocoanut 
i cup honey } teaspoon salt 

Beat egg white until stiff, gradually add honey, beating constantly. Con- 
tinue until mixture peaks. Fold in salt and cocoanut. Drop from a sp'oon on a 
well-greased cookie sheet, bake in a moderate oven until golden brown. 

HONEY ICE BOX COOKIES 

\ cup butter 1 egg 

i CU P honey \ cup brown sugar 

-A cups flour i cup dipped walnuts 

S teaspoon soda | teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream honey and sugar with butter, add egg. mix well. Add dry ingredients, 
then nuts and vanilla. Shape in a loaf, cover with waxed paper and chill. Slice 
off and bake in an oven 400 degrees Fahrenheit for 10 to 12 minutes. 

HONEY SOUR CREAM COOKIES 

2 l 'ggs 1 cup shortening 
W cups brown sugar 1 cup honev 

i cup sour cream 1 teaspoon soda 

5} cups flour 1 cup nuts i walnuts) chopped 

J teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream shortening, sugar, honey and eggs thoroughly. Add sour cream, then 
sifted dry ingredients, walnuts and vanilla. Drop by spoonfuls on greased cookie 
sheet and bake at 350 degrees Fahrenheit for 12 to 15 minutes. 

HONEY OATMEAL COOKIES WITH DATE FILLING 

i CU P butter 1 cup fine oatmeal 

\ cup honey 1 teaspoon salt 

1 e SR \ teaspoon almond flavouring 

H cups flour l teaspoon soda 

Cream butter, honey and egg well. Add sifted dry ingredients and flavour- 
ing. Chill, roll and cut with a cookie cutter. Bake in a hot oven 7 or 8 minutes 
until a delicate brown. As soon as the cookies are cold, spread with date filling 
and put together. 

Date filling 
1 cup dates \ cup of water 

Simmer slowly until dates are tender and smooth enough to spread easily. 



12 

HONEY HERMITS 

. § cup butter 2\ cups flour 

1 cup honey \ teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 
2 tablespoons milk \ teaspoon soda 

2 cups rolled oats 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
\ cup walnuts 1 cup raisins 

Cream butter and honey thoroughly with eggs. Add milk, oatmeal and 
sifted dry ingredient?, stir in nuts and raisins. Drop from a teaspoon on an oiled 
cookie sheet. Bake in a moderate oven (350 degrees Fahrenheit) for about 20 
minutes. 

HONEY SNAPS 

\ cup honey £ cup butter 

1 cup sifted pastry flour § cup granulated sugar 

1 teaspoon vanilla \ teaspoon salt 

Heat the honey to boiling point, add the butter and let melt. Carefully 
add the mixed and sifted dry ingredients, combining so that there are no lumps, 
add flavouring and drop from a teaspoon on to a well-buttered baking sheet. 
Bake in a slow oven, 300 degrees Fahrenheit, for 10 to 15 minutes, or until thin 
and bubbly and nicely browned. 

Remove from the oven, allow to cool a little, just enough that the wafers 
may be pulled from the baking sheet, and roll with the top side out. If the 
wafers become too hard to roll, place the baking sheet in the oven for a few 
minutes. 

HONEY NUT SQUARES 

1} cups flour i cup honey 

3 tablespoons brown sugar 2 egg whites 

\ cup butter 1 cup cocoanut 

| eup brown sugar 1 cup chopped walnuts 

| teaspoon - 2 tablespoons flour 

■i teaspoon vanilla 

Rub first three ingredients together to make a crumb mixture. Pat into 
shallow pan and cook in a moderate oven about 10 minutes, or until light brown. 
Beat egg whites stiff, add honey and brown sugar gradually, beat until mixture 
peaks, fold in other ingredients. Spread this over crumb mixture and cook about 
40 minutes in a slow oven, when top should be golden brown. 

HONEY COCOANUT STACKS 

To 1 stiffly beaten egg white add 2 tablespoons of cornstarch and one- 
half cup of warm honey. Stir in 2% to 3 cups of cocoanut. Cook in a double 
boiler for 10 minutes. Let cool, when the mixture may be easily formed into 
small stacks. Bake at a low temperature, 275 to 300 degrees Fahrenheit, until 
delicately browned. 

HONEY DATE BARS 

1^ cups flour \ cup honey 

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon vanilla 

\ teaspoon salt \ cup nuts 

3 eggs 1 cup dates or other dried 
* \ cup sugar fruit 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt. Beat eggs, add sugar, honey and vanilla. 
Mix well and stir in dates and nuts. Combine with sifted dry ingredients. Place 



13 

in a shallow pan about \ inch deep. Bake 20 minutes at 350 degrees Fahrenheit. 
When cool cut in strips and roll in powdered sugar. 

HONEY DROP COOKIES 

1 cup honey \ teaspoon cloves 

i cup butter 1£ cups flour 

1 egg \ teaspoon soda 

1 cup raisins \ tablespoon hot water 



teaspoon cinnamon 



Heat the honey and butter until the butter melts. While the mixture is warm 
add the spices. When cold, add the egg well beaten, the soda dissolved in water, 
raisins and the flour to make a dough to hold its shape. Drop by spoonfuls on a 
buttered tin and bake in a moderate oven. 

CANDY AND CONFECTIONS 

HONIED PEEL 

Remove peel from oranges and grapefruit in quarters. Soak overnight in a 
soda solution, using one teaspoon of soda to each quart of water. Next day 
drain and cook the peel in fresh water until tender. Remove from the water, 
drain and soak in a weak honey solution overnight. Next day cook in full 
strength honey until clear, remove from the honey and allow to dry. 

To dry, the peel may be placed on a tray in a slightly warm oven, with the 
oven door left open. 

To Coat the Peel. — Make a sugar solution in the proportions of 2 cups 
sugar to 1 cup water, boil for about five minutes. Remove from the stove and 
beat until frothy, dip each piece of dried peel in this solution. Remove and 
allow to dry. then store. 

HONEY DIVINITY FUDGE 

2 cups sugar 2 egg whites 

i cup honey pinch of salt 

$ cup water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

nuts and cherries 

Stir honey, sugar and water until sugar is dissolved. Boil together until a 
thread at least six inches long will spin. Pour over stiffly beaten egg white-, 
beating all the while. Beat until thick and the shine disappears. Add nuts or 
cherries and vanilla. Drop by spoonfuls on waxed paper and let set. 

HONEY CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

2 cups sugar 1 cup nuts 

1 square unsweetened -J cup honey 

chocolate (cut up fine) 1 cup evaporated milk 
i teaspoon salt butter the size of walnut 

Boil sugar, chocolate, salt and milk five minutes. Add honey and cook to 
the soft ball stage, 238 degrees Fahrenheit. Add nuts and butter, cool. Beat 

until creamy. 

HONEY PULLED TAFFY 

1 cup brown sugar 2 tablespoons butter 

1 cup honey few grains salt 

■J cup water ^ teaspoon vanilla 

Boil sugar, honey and water to 288 degrees Fahrenheit, add butter, salt 
and vanilla. Pour on a buttered platter, cool until it can be handled, pull until 
light in colour, cut in pieces. 



14 



HONIED FRUIT STRIPS 



Remove peel from oranges and grapefruit in quarters. 
Cut into strips with a pair of scissors. 
Soak overnight in a weak brine solution. 

Bring to the boil three times, using fresh water each time, then cook until 
tender. 

Soak overnight in a weak honey solution. 

Cook in honey until clear. Drain. 

Roll in coarse granulated sugar, dry. store. 



PIES, PUDDINGS AND ICE CREAM 

HONEY LEMON PIE 

1 lemon, juice and rind f cup honey 

4 to 5 tablespoons of corn- \ teaspoon salt 

starch 2 eggs 

-V cup cold water 1 tablespoon butter. 

1 cup boiling water 

Mix cornstarch and salt with cold water, add honey, stir well. Add boiling 
water and cook in double boiler until taste of raw starch lias disappeared. 
Remove and add lemon juice and rind, add part of cooked mixture to the egg 
yolks, then combine both. Return to the double boiler for three or four minutes 
to cook egg. Remove from fire and add butter. Place in a baked pie shell. 
Cover with meringue made by adding slowdy £ cup fine granulated sugar to two 
stiffly beaten egg whites. Cook in a slow oven, 250 degrees to 275 degrees Fahren- 
heit, until golden brown. 

HONEY PUMPKIN" PIE 

1^ cups steamed pumpkin -V teaspoon salt 

1 cup honey 3 eggs 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 cup milk 
\ teaspoon ginger \ cup cream 

Mix ingredients in order given and bake in one crust. 

HONEY CRACKER PIE 

14 Graham crackers 1 teaspoon sugar 

\ cup melted butter 1 teaspoon flour 

Roll Graham crackers and combine with other ingredients. Pat into pie 
tin, saving out two tablespoonfuls to sprinkle over meringue. 

Filling 

2 tablespoons cornstarch 2 egg yolks 
£ teaspoon salt 2 cups milk 

\ cup honey 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix first three ingredients with a little water in the top part of a double 
boiler, Then add scalded milk to this mixture. Cook until there is no taste of 
raw starch. Then add the cooked mixture slowly to the beaten egg yolks and 
cook for three minutes. Cool slightly, add vanilla, and pour into cracker shell. 



15 

Meringue 

Beat egg whites until stiff, add one-half cup fine granulated sugar gradu- 
ally. File lightly over filling and sprinkle with remaining cracker crumbs. Bake 
at 325 degrees Fahrenheit for about 30 minutes until meringue is golden brown. 

CHOCOLATE PIE FILLING 

2 cups milk 2 squares unsweetened chocolate 
J cup honey I melted I 

1 tablespoon butter 2 egg yolks 

3 tablespoons cornstarch easpoon salt 

Blend cornstarch with a little cold milk in the top of a double boiler, add 
honey, add rest of the milk scalded. Cook until there is no taste of raw starch. 
Beat egg yolks, add melted chocolate, butter and salt. Add the hot mixture 
to this gradually, return to the double boiler and cook for three minutes. Pour 
into a cooked pie shell and cover with meringue made with two egg whites beaten 
stiff and one-half cup of sugar added gradually. Cook in a moderate oven 
until meringue is golden brown. 

HONEY PECAN PIE 

i,p honey \ teaspoon salt 

3 eg \ teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup pecans or other nuts \ teaspoon almond extract 

Beat the eggs until frothy, add honey a little at a time. Stir in extra 
nut- and -alt. Pour into an uncooked pie shell. Hake 10 minutes at 375 degl 

irenheit. reduce to a moderate oven at 325 degrees Fahrenheit and cook until 
filling is set. 

HONEY STEAMED PUDDING 



1 egg well beaten 1 cup flour 

j cup honey 1 cup raisins 

J cup butter \ cup milk 

\ cup bran \ teaspoon soda 

\ teaspoon salt 



Mix honey and fat, add well-beaten egg and milk, add bran and raisins and 
fold in sifted dry ingredients. Place in a greased mould, cover tightly. Steam 
for two hours. 

HONEY GRAHAM PUDDING 

4 tablespoons butter 1 egg 

i cup honey 14 cups Graham flour 

\ cup brown sugar \ teaspoon soda 

| cup milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup raisins 

Mix in order given and steam two hours in a well-buttered mould. 

STEAMED DATE PUDDING 

3 tablespoons butter \ teaspoon salt 

| cup honey i teaspoon allspice 

^ cup brown sugar i teaspoon nutmeg 

1£ cups flour I teaspoon cinnamon 

I teaspoon soda .' pound chopped dates 

I cup milk 1 egg 



16 

Cream butter, sugar, honey and egg thoroughly, add dates. Sift dry 
ingredients and add alternately with the milk. Pour into a well-buttered mould 
and steam for two hours. 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

3 tablespoons butter 2£ cups flour 

^ cup honey 4$ teaspoons baking powder 

\ cup brown sugar 2+ squares chocolate (unsweetened) 

1 egg i teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream butter, honey, sugar and egg thoroughly, sift dry ingredients. Melt 
chocolate and add to creamed mixture. Add sifted dry ingredients and milk 
alternately, add flavouring. Pour into a well-buttered mould and steam for two 
hours. 

HONEY PLUM PUDDING 

1 cup beef suet 4 teaspoon salt 

1 cup bread crumbs | teaspoon cloves 

V cup honey I teaspoon cinnamon 

1\ pounds raisins 2 well beaten eggs 

if pounds currants \ cup milk 

1 cup blanched almonds | teaspoon grated nutmeg 

\ cup citron peel 

1 level teaspoon soda dissolved in 1 tablespoon hot water 

Flour fruit from 1 pint of flour. Mix remainder as follows, well beaten eggs, 
honey, spices, salt and milk. Stir in fruit, peel, nuts, bread crumbs and suet 
after each other, putting in soda last and enough flour to stick together. Place in 
a mould with tight-fitting cover and steam for 2 hours. 

HONEY JUNKET 

1 pint lukewarm milk 1 tablespoon honey 

oon vanilla 1 junket tablet 

Few grains salt 

Follow directions for making junket as given on each box of junket tablets, 
substituting honey in place of sugar. 

HONEY ORANGE CUSTARD 

2 eggs 1 cup milk 

3 teaspoons flour 2 tablespoons water 

4 tablespoons honey \ teaspoon salt 

Juice and grated rind of 1 orange 

Beat egg yolks, add grated orange rind. Make a smooth paste of flour and 
water, add honey, combine with egg yolks mixture. Beat egg whites stiff, add 
milk to yolk mixture and fold in whites. Oven poach for 45 minutes at 275 to 
300 degrees Fahrenheit. 

HONEY BAKED CUSTARD 

5 eggs \ teaspoon cinnamon 
\ cup honey \ teaspoon salt 

^ 4 cups scalded milk 

Beat eggs slightly, add other ingredients, mix thoroughly, pour into custard 
cups. Oven poach in a-moderate oven until firm. 



17 



HONIED BAKED APPLES 



Wash and remove core, pare the upper half of the apple and mark with the 
prongs of a fork. Place apples in a baking dish with a little boiling water. Put 
a teaspoon of honey and a small piece of butter in each core. Baste frequently 
while cooking. 

HONEY VANILLA ICE CREAM 

3 cups thin cream £ teaspoon vanilla 

$ cup honey Few grains salt 

Heat cream, honey and salt to the scalding point over hot water. Remove 
and cool, add vanilla and freeze. 

HONEY STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

| pint cream 2 tablespoons honey 

\ pint milk 2 tablespoons sugar 

| pint strawberries Few grains salt 

Scald the cream and milk, add honey, sugar and salt, stir to dissolve honey 
and sugar. Cool, add mashed strawberries. Freeze using 1 part salt to 8 parts 
ice. 

HONEY CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

1^ squares unsweetened choc- 3 cups thin cream 

olate ^ teaspoon vanilla 

\ cup hot water Few grains salt 
| cup honey 

Melt the chocolate in the top of the double boiler, add the hot water to form 
a paste, then add the honey and salt. To this mixture add the cream and bring 
to the scalding point over hot water. Remove, cool, add vanilla and fr< 

Muffins, Doughnuts, etc. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup oatmeal 

i cup honey 1 j cups flour 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 egg 4 teaspoons baking powder 

\ cup chopped walnuts 

Beat egg until light, add honey and milk, beat well. Measure butter and 
melt, add to egg mixture. Mix flour, salt and baking powder, sift, and add wal- 
nuts and oatmeal. Turn wet ingredients into dry ones and stir vigorously until 
dry ingredients are well dampened. Fill muffin tins two-thirds full and bake in 
a hot oven for 20 minutes. 

HONEY MUFFINS 

1 cup Graham flour 1 cup milk 

i cup white flour 1 egg 

i cup honey 3 tablespoons bu1 

1 teaspoon salt 5 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add milk gradually, egg well beaten, honey and 
melted butter. Bake in a moderate oven in buttered gem pans for 25 minutes. 



18 

HOT HOMEY BRAN CAKES 

2 tablespoons butter I cup raisins 

-V cup lioney 1 cup flour 

2 eggs 3 teaspoons baking powder 

| teaspoon salt 11 cups crumbled bran 

2 tablespoons milk 

(.'ream the butter, add the honey, mix well. Add the eggs slightly beaten, 
then the raisins and milk. Sift flour, salt and baking powder twice, then add to 
the batter. Lastly stir in the bran. Bake in muffin tins at 350 degrees 
Fahrenheit. 

HONEY STEAMED BROWN" BREAD 

J cup honey 2 cups sour milk 

1 egg 1 cup white flour 

1 teaspoon salt 2\ cups Graham flour 

2 teaspoons soda I cup raisins 

Beat egg well, add honey and sour milk and beat well. Add sifted dry 
ingredient- and raisins, mix. Pour into greased moulds, cover and steam for 
three hours. 

HONEY NIT' AND DATE BREAD 

\\ cups chopped dates 1 egg 

1 cup boiling water \ cup honey 

1 teaspoon soda 2 tablespoons brown sugar 

K cup walnuts 3 cups flour 

3 teaspoons butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 

£ teaspoon salt 

Place dates in saucepan with soda and boiling water, cook for five minutes. 
Cool. Cream butter thoroughly, add honey, sugar and egg. Then add cooled 
e mixture anil nuts. Stir in sifted dry ingredients. Bake in a loaf tin about 
50 minutes in a slow oven. 

HOXEY DOUGHNUTS 

1 large cup of milk £ cup sugar 

4 tablespoons honey 1 tablespoon butter 

1 egg 1 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons cream of tartar 1 teaspoon soda 
Flour \ teaspoon nutmeg and 

^ teaspoon ginger 

Cream butter, sugar and honey thoroughly, gradually beat in egg, add milk 
alternately with soda and cream of tartar, sifted with two cups of flour and 
\ teaspoon nutmeg and ^ teaspoon of ginger. Add one tablespoon of boiling 
lard out of the pot prepared for frying. Then add enough flour to make a stiff 
dough. Roll and cut out and fry in deep fat at 375 degrees Fahrenheit. 

Breakfast Fruits Sweetened with Honey 

All fruits to which sweetening is added for serving are delightful with honey. 
Grapefruit 

Halve, core and section grapefruit as usual. Allow two or three tablespoons 
of honey to pour in a fine thin stream on the fruit. Let stand 15 to 30 
minutes before serving. 



19 



Marmalade and Fruit Butters 

HONEY ORANGE AND CARROT MARMALADE 



Take six medium-sized, sweet navel oranges (skins only) and put through 
a meat £inderTsin g the fine knife. To this add an equal quantity of carrot 
Sreoared in the same way. To each cup of the above combined ingredients add 
two ?cups of water and soak overnight Simmer for two hours, remove from 
?ove and Sd the grated rind and juice of six lemons. Let stand overnight again 
aTsimteT until I good jelly test* is obtained. Then to ea ch cup of the pu P 
mixture add one cup of honey and \ cup of sugar, boil to 222 degrees *ahrenneit, 
lpt pnnl sliehtlv. then pour into sterilized jars. , 

All honey may be used in place of part honey and part sugar, but this makes 
a ^eter marmalade^ ^ ^ ^ ^ lp 

mixture S it coo and add one tablespoon of alcohol, mix and let stand for a 
SwSnutes. A thick jelly like substance will form, if the pulp has had sufficient 
simmering. 

HONEY ORANGE SYRUP 

Take the juice from the oranges used in making orange and carrot marmalade 
To each cup of unstrained juice add one cup of sugar and the grated rm d of 
half an orange and half a lemon tied in a muslin bag. Boil all together at 217 
degrees Fahrenheit for five minutes. Remove from the stove and add \ cup 
UquTd [honey and the juice of half a lemon to each cup of unstrained juice used. 
Pour into sterile bottles and cap at once. 

This makes a very delightful drink for children and should be used in the 
proportion of one to two tablespoons to a glass of cold water. 

HONEY APRICOT BUTTER 

Soak two pounds of dried apricots overnight. Cook until tender and put 
thronah a sieve the small amount of juice should not be strained off. To each 
cup of p^lp add f cup liquid honey, and to the whole. amount add the juice and 
grated rind of one lemon. Boil twenty minutes, stirring constantly. Pour into 

Steri Two p a oun a ds d of Se apricots should yield about five cups of pulp and this amount 
should ma P ke five one pound jars of apricot butter The coarse waste that will 
not go through the sieve may be used for an apricot batter pudding. 

HONEY PRUNE BUTTER 

«!n«k the nrunes overnight. Next morning remove the pits and tie them in a 
cheefeclotJ ba'g Cook%he g prunes until tender, having the pits in the kettle 
whUe the prunfs are cooking. Remove the pits and sieve the prunes To each 
Tup of prune pulp, add three-quarters of a cup of honey, boil for twenty minutes, 
storing constantly. Remove from fire, pour into sterilized jars and seal. 

HONEY SANDWICH FILLINGS 

The following may be spread on lightly buttered white or Graham bread. 

HONEY AND PEANUT BUTTER 

Mix equal parts of honey and peanut butter. 

HONEY AND NUT 

Combine very finely chopped nuts with honey and mayonnaise. 



CAL/BCA OTTAWA K1A 0C5 



20 3 9073 00225740 2 

HONEY AND CHEESE 

Add enough honey to cream cheese or grated hard cheese to spread easily. 

HONEY FRUIT AND NUT SPREAD 

Two tablespoons each of finely chopped dates, nuts and crystallized ginger 
and enough honey and butter to make an easily spread mixture. 

Miscellaneous 

HONEY BOILED ICING 

1 cup honey \ teaspoon vanilla 

2 egg whites Few grains salt 

Boil the honey to 238 or 240 degrees Fahrenheit. Pour slowly over the well 
beaten egg whites, stirring constantly. Add salt and vanilla and beat until cool 
and thick enough to spread. 

CHOCOLATE PASTE 

Melt three squares unsweetened chocolate, to this add one cup of honey, 
stir well and pour into a jar, cover and set away in a cool dry place. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

To be served hot on ice cream or cold on other desserts. 

\ cup chocolate paste Few grains salt 

\ cup milk i teaspoon vanilla 

1 tablespoon butter 
Boil the above ingredients together for about five minutes. Serve hot or cold. 

HOT CHOCOLATE OR COLD CHOCOLATE 

Add 3 tablespoons of hot water to 1 tablespoon chocolate paste, blend well 
and add \ cup of milk and a few grains of salt. Heat in the top of a double 
boiler. Leave out the last step if you wish to serve a cold drink. 

CANNING 

Experiments have been conducted on the use of honey in canning with the 
following results: — 

The fruits used were strawberries, raspberries, peaches, pears and plums. 
The cold pack method of canning was employed, that is, the fruit was prepared, 
packed raw in the jars, covered with honey syrup, partially sealed and processed 
in a water bath the required length of time. 

It is necessary to make the syrup first. The proportions used for straw- 
berries and plums are one part by measure of honey to one and one-half parts 
by measure of water boiled and skimmed. For peaches, pears, and raspberries 
use one part by measure of honey to two parts by measure of water, boiled and 
skimmed. 

Fruits canned in honey syrup by the above method kept equally as well as 
those canned in sugar syrup. They also compared favourably as to colour, 
texture and general appearance. Raspberries and strawberries were not as bright 
in colour as those canned in sugar syrup. 

The flavour of honey was more noticeable in the syrup on the mild fruits than 
on the plums. 

Ottawa: Printed by J. O. Fatenacde, I.S.O., Printer to the King's Most Excellent Majesty, 1936. 



