PUBLICATION 493 ISSUED APRIL. 1936 

HOUSEHOLD BULLETIN 4 REPRINT 

DOMINION OF CANADA, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 



WHY AND HOW 

TO 

USE CHEESE 




Cut a 10-pound cheese in half. Paraffin the freshly cut end of one-half ud put away 

for future use. Scoop from the other half the amount required each 

day and then turn upside down when not in use. 



DAIRY AND COLD STORAGE 
BRANCH 




f^9- 



Published by authority of the Hon. JAMES G. GARDINER, Minister of Agriculture 
Ottawa . Canada 



q ^3 
c2 



l+l 



Agriculture Canadian Agriculture Library 

Canada Bibliotheque canadienne de I'agriculture 

Ottawa K1 A 0C5 



HISTORICAL 

f~^ IIEESE has been used as a food for man since prehistoric times and its 
^ manufacture is one of the oldest, of the technical arts. It is an important 
article of diet in nearly all civilized countries. 

The early French settlers in Canada brought the art of making cheese from 
France. Certain families on the Island of Orleans still make a peculiar type of 
cheese for which the process has been handed down from generation to generation 
for possibly 300 years. 

The United Empire Loyalists brought with them from the United States 
a knowledge of the manufacture of the Cheddar type of cheese into different 
parts of Ontario over 100 years ago. 

All cheese was made on farms in Canada until the year 1864, when the 
first cheese factory was started in Oxford county, Ontario. Another factory 
was opened in Missisquoi county, Quebec, in the following year. The factory 
system has so many advantages that it was quickly adopted and in a few 
years the making of cheese on farms was practically abandoned. There are 
now cheeese factories in every province, but about 97 per cent of the cheese is 
still produced in Ontario and Quebec. The total production of cheese in Canada 
in 1932 was 120,524 : 243 pounds valued at $11,379,922. 



All measurements in these recipes are level. 



CHEESE SAUCE 

MfeSr ftr;^ cheese 

i tsp. salt J c - mllk 

Method No. 1 : Melt the butter and stir in the flour and seasonings until 
smooth and frothy. Stir in the milk gradually and cook stirring constantly 
until it thickens. Just before serving, add grated cheese. Stir until melted and 
serve hot. 

Method No. 2: Mix the flour smoothly with a little cold milk Heat the 
rest of the milk in a double boiler. Add the flour and stir constantly until the 
mixture thickens. Add butter and seasonings and, just before serving, add the 
grated cheese. Less butter will be required if this method is used. 



CHEESE SOUP 

4 c. milk I tsp- salt 

2 or 3 slices onion Speck pepper 

2 tbsp. butter * ':&**** ±lf e 

2 tbsp. flour Yolks of 2 e 88 8 

Scald milk with the onion, then remove the onion. Melt the butter in the top 
part of a double boiler. Stir in the flour until smooth. Stir into this the heated 
milk and seasonings and cook in a double boiler, stirring constantly until thick. 
Into this stir the beaten egg yolks. Cook one minute and add the grated cheese. 
Beat with a Dover egg beater and serve at once. 

Egg yolks may be omitted, but make a richer and more delicious soup. 



WELSH RAREBIT 

1 tbsp. butter i tsp- salt , , 

I tbsp. flour i tsP- mustard 

T c milk Few grains of cayenne 

| lb. cheese Toast or crackers 

Grate the cheese or chop finely. Melt the butter. Stir in the flour and 
seasonings until smooth, then pour in the milk and cook stirring constantly, 
until it thickens. Add the cheese and, as soon as it is melted, pour over toast 
or crisp crackers on a hot platter. 

A rarebit should be smooth and creamy. Soft mild flavoured cheese is best, 



TOMATO RAREBIT 

2 tbsp. butter \ c. 8 rated cheese 

2 tbsp. flour I ^g 

i c. milk Salt 

i c. stewed tomatoes Mustard 

i tsp. soda Pepper 

Melt the butter. Stir in the flour until smooth. Stir in the milk and cook, 
stirring constantly, until thick. Strain the tomatoes, stir m the soda and, as soon 
as it has finished frothing, stir into the sauce. Add the slightly beaten egg. 
Cook one minute, then add the grated cheese and pour over toast. Serve at once. 

15246-11 



KINDS OF CHEESE 

CHEESE is made from whole milk, skim-milk, or milk which is partially- 
skimmed. It is also made from cream and whole milk to which cream is 
added. There are probably about 250 different kinds of cheese made throughout 
the world and new types are introduced from time to time. . 

The different kinds or types made are roughly divided into hard or pressed 
cheese, and soft or unpressed. Another class is the mouldy or blue-veined cheese, 
like Stilton, Roquefort, Gorgonzola, etc. The hard varieties include Cheddar. 
Cheshire, Swiss, Edam and other less known varieties. Among the soft varieties, 
the most prominent are Camembert, Brie, Limburger, Pont ITEveque, Gervais, 
Neufchatel, and many kinds of cream cheese. 

The hard, or pressed, varieties are slow in ripening. Some of them, like 
Cheddar, Swiss or Cheshire, do not reach prime condition until they are about 
a year old. Soft varieties are usually made in small sizes and ripen more 
quickly. Some kinds, such as cottage cheese (made from sour milk), cream 
cheese and Neufchatel are ready for use almost as soon as made. 

In the making of all cheese, with some minor exceptions, rennet is used as 
a coagulating agent. The factors which influence texture and flavour and thus 
produce the different types, are the age of the milk at the beginning of the 
process, the degree of heat employed at different stages, the amount of moisture 
retained, the time of salting and the handling of the curd during the early part 
of the process. The texture depends largely on the amount of moisture retained, 
while the flavour is determined by the kind of fermentation which is encouraged. 



ENGLISH MONKEY 

1 c. stale bread crumbs 1 egg 

1 c. milk I tsp. mustard 

1 tbsp. butter i tsp. salt 

i c. mild cheese Few grains of cayenne 

Add the milk to the bread crumbs in a saucepan and let stand about 15 
minutes. Add butter and seasonings. Heat slowly and stir in the slightly 
beaten egg. Cook one minute and add the grated cheese. As soon as the 
cheese is melted, pour over toast or crisp crackers on a hot platter. 



CHEESE PUDDING 

1 c. stale bread crumbs 2 tbsp. butter 

1 c. grated cheese i tsp. mustard 

2 c. milk Salt 
2 eggs 

Beat the egg slightly. Add the milk, cheese, bread crumbs and melted 
butter. Turn into a well greased baking dish and let stand about 10 minutes. 
Set in a pan of hot water and bake in a moderate oven until the pudding is 
firm. Small squares of bread may be used instead of the bread crumbs. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

2 tbsp. butter Yolks of 3 eggs 

3 tbsp. flour Whites of 3 eggs 

i c milk Few grams of cayenne 

J tsp. salt i c - cheese, grated 

Make a cheese sauce, using butter, flour, milk and cheese. Season. Add 
the beaten egg yolks and, when the mixture is cold, fold in the stiffly beaten egg 
whites. Pour into a buttered baking dish and bake 20 minutes in a slow oven. 
Serve at once. 

CHEESE FONDUE 

1 c. milk Yolks of 2 eggs 

1 c. soft stale bread crumbs i tsp. salt 

1 cup grated cheese 1 tbsp. melted butter 
Whites of 2 eggs 

Soak the bread crumbs in milk a few minutes and add the cheese and 
beaten egg volks. Season and add the melted butter. Fold in the stiffly beaten 
egg whites. ' Pour into a buttered baking dish and bake in a moderate oven about 
20 minutes. 

CHEESE ROULETTES 

2 c. mashed potatoes Salt 

i c. milk Pepper 

4 tbsp. grated cheese 

Add the milk, cheese and seasoning to the mashed potatoes and beat until 
light. Drop bv spoonfuls on a greased pan. Brush the potatoes with beaten 
egg and brown "in a moderate oven. These may be served alone or with creamed 
or baked fish. 



CANADIAN CHEESE 

CANADIAN cheesemakers confine their activities almost wholly to the 
Cheddar type. It is practically the only kind made in the factories. It 
is made in various sizes ranging from 5 and 10 pounds up to 80 or 85 pounds. 
The 10 pound cheese are often wrongly called "Stilton," or "Canadian Stilton." 
Stilton cheese is a mouldy variety and very unlike Cheddar. A few genuine 
Stilton cheese are made at the Dominion Experimental Farm at Agassiz, B.C. 
The Trappist monks at Oka, Que., make a cheese of medium texture and pro- 
nounced flavour which is known as "Oka" cheese. The agricultural colleges and 
government departments make a comparatively small quantity of cream and 
other soft varieties, and there are a few private makers of these types of 
cheese. 

There is another class of cheese on the Canadian market put up in jars, 
packets and in small loaves, which is only cheddar cheese ground up and to 
which extra fat and flavouring material is sometimes added. 

Cottage cheese is prepared in many households from sour skim-milk without 
the addition of rennet. It is a delicious and wholesome food and should be much 
more extensively used than it is. It is easily and quickly made and requires 
no special apparatus for making small quantities for family use. (See directions 
on page 10.) 



CHEESE CROQUETTES 

i c. milk J c. grated cheese 

3 tbsp. butter i tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. flour 1 tsp. onion 

Make a thick sauce using butter, flour and milk. Add seasonings and 
grated cheese and, as soon as the cheese is melted, remove from the heat. When 
quite cold, form into small balls or cut in squares. Roll in bread crumbs, in 
beaten egg and in crumbs again. Fry in deep fat, or brown very carefully in a 
small amount of fat. Serve with tomato sauce. 

One finely chopped, hard cooked egg may be added to the sauce, or one- 
third of a cup of cooked rice. 

The egg in which the croquettes are rolled should be beaten very slightly 
and 2 tablespoonfuls of water added. 



MACARONI AND CHEESE 

1 c. macaroni 4 tbsp. flour 

2 qts. water 1 c. grated cheese 
2 tsp. salt i tsp. salt 

2 c. milk Pepper 

3 tbsp. butter 

Add the salt to the water. Put over the heat and, when boiling rapidly, 
drop in the macaroni broken into pieces about 1 inch in length. Boil rapidly 
until the macaroni is tender, then drain through a sieve. Pour cold water over 
the macaroni in the sieve to prevent it sticking together. Make a sauce of the 
remaining ingredients and into this stir the macaroni. Serve hot. This may 
be put in a baking dish, sprinkled with buttered crumbs and baked in the oven 
until browned on the top. 



TO BUTTER CRUMBS 

Melt \ tablespoonful butter in a saucepan. Add \ cup dry bread crumbs 
and stir lightlv with a fork. 



DELMONICO POTATOES 

2 c. milk i c. grated cheese 

4 tbsp. butter Cold boiled potatoes cut in small 

4 tbsp. flour cubes 

Make a cheese sauce using milk, butter, flour and cheese. Put a layer of 
potatoes in a buttered baking dish. Add a layer of sauce and repeat these 
layers until the dish is full. Cover with buttered crumbs and re-heat in oven. 



BAKED RICE AND CHEESE 

Put a layer of cooked rice on the bottom of a buttered baking dish, sprinkle 
with salt and add a layer of cheese sauce. Repeat these layers, spread with 
buttered bread crumbs and re-heat in the oven. Stewed tomatoes may be added 
to this recipe. 



THE ADVANTAGES OF CHEESE AS A FOOD 

THE manufacture of cheese does not impair the nutrients in the milk from 
which it is made. Almost all the protein of the milk is present in cheese 
and if the cheese is made from whole milk, almost all the butter fat, with the 
associated fat soluble vitamin which is indispensable to growth and mental 
development. It also contains some of the water soluble vitamin and most of 
the mineral matter so necessary for building bones and teeth. One pound of 
cheese contains nearly all the protein and fat in one gallon of milk. By weight, 
its composition is approximately one-third protein, one-third fat and one-third 
water. 

Cheese is a very concentrated form of food and. compared with other protein 
foods, is economical. One-half pound of cheese contains about as much nourish- 
ment as one pound of moderately lean beef, while there is no waste such as there 
is in meat. Its small bulk makes it convenient to handle or to store. With 
proper care, cheese will keep a long time in good condition and the many ways 
in which it can be served give variety to the diet which includes a great deal of 
this food. From the standpoint of the housekeeper, one of the greatest advan- 
tages is that it can be served in its natural state, without any time, labour or ex- 
pense required for heating, cooking or preparing it for the table. 

In many European countries, cheese is one of the most important foods. A 
labourer at hard manual work finds a noonday meal of bread and cheese suffi- 
cient to maintain health and strength for his work and it provides a high 
percentage of body building substance needed by the growing girl or boy. In 
this country, cheese is used more for its flavour than as a main dish of a meal, 
but it could very advantageously be given a more important place in Canadian 
dietaries. It can be procured almost anywhere and at all seasons of the year. 

Cottage cheese is different in flavour from Cheddar cheese. It forms one of 
the cheapest sources of protein necessary for body building. It is made from 
skim-milk and is an excellent way to utilize small quantities of sour milk 
which otherwise would bo wasted. 



BAKED CHEESE AND TOMATOES 

nt <h?f Ct fi + m ' r ^ tomat °es. Cut a thin layer from the top and scoop out part 
of the tomato. Fill with equal amounts of grated cheese and bread crumbs; 
replace the layer on the top and bake in a hot oven. Serve hot. 

CREAMED CABBAGE WITH CHEESE 

Chop cooked cabbage finely and put a layer in a buttered baking dish. 
Cover with cheese sauce. Repeat these layers until the dish is full. Spread with 
buttered bread crumbs and serve hot. 

The cheese sauce may be added to the cabbage and served without putting 
in the oven, or without adding bread crumbs. 

CORN AND CHEESE TIMBALES 

: egg ... 8 tbsp. grated cheese 

J c ' mi,k . 1 tsp. salt 

1 c. corn, canned Pepper 

Beat the egg. Add the milk, corn, grated cheese and seasoning. Pour into 
greased pans. Set in a pan of hot water and bake in a slow oven until firm 
(about 30 minutes). 1 tablespoonful finely minced pimento may be added. 

CHEESE OMELET 

i tu 88 u j i_ Few grains of cayenne 

Salt 3 tbsp - grated cheese 

Beat the eggs slightly. Add ± teaspoonful melted butter, seasonings and 
grated cheese. Melt the remaining butter in a smooth pan. Heat the pan and 
pour in the mixture. Cook at a low temperature without stirring. Spread with 
grated cheese, then fold and sprinkle grated cheese over the top Serve at 
once. y 

SCALLOPED EGGS WITH CHEESE 

4 hard cooked eggs (chopped) 3 tbsp. butter 

l^fl I c. grated cheese 

4 tbsp. flour Buttered bread crumbs 

i Mak « a cheese sauce using the milk, butter, flour and grated cheese. Put 
la yer of buttered bread crumbs on the bottom of a buttered baking dish. Add 
one-half the eggs and pour over this about one-half the sauce. Repeat, using 
the remaining eggs and sauce and cover the top with buttered bread crumbs 
i*ut in a hot oven and cook until the crumbs are brown. 

CREAMED EGGS AND CHEESE 

3 hard cooked eggs 3 tbsp butter 

4t C b£ ,lk flo Ur i a c t grated cheese 

Pm ,^ ake f. chee ;e sauce and to this add the finely chopped hard cooked eggs. 

I? JPJ ? Ce E ° f t0aSt a ^ d Serve hot - If desired < ™ ] y th e whites of the eggs may 
be added to the sauce, the yolks pressed through a sieve and sprinkled over 



10 



S 



COTTAGE CHEESE 

OME years ago, cheesemaking was a part of the work on many farms. 
While Cheddar cheese is now made almost entirely in factories where labour- 
saving devices and trained cheesemakers make a more uniform product, there are 
still certain kinds of cheese which can be made on the farm without very much 
labour and without a great deal of experience. 

Cottage cheese, which is made from skim-milk, is the only kind which can 
be made satisfactorily in small quantities. For this reason, it is the one which 
the housekeeper attempts and which is of special interest to her. The process 
of making is so simple and so little time is required that it is one of the most 
convenient ways of utilizing small quantites of milk which otherwise might be 
wasted. 

If a quart of milk sours, it need not be wasted, for with very little labour 
it can be made into a nutritious, palatable and very economical dish. Milk 
which has soured very slowly, or is stale, should not be used, as it is apt to impart 
a bitter flavour to the cheese. Cottage cheese should be eaten within a day or 
so after it is made. Its mild flavour makes it suitable for combining with fruits 
and vegetables to make delicious salads. 

Method: Put the soured milk in a pan and set over hot water until it 
separates into curds and whey. Strain through a double cheese cloth over a dish. 
Put the curd in a bowl, mix well, season with salt and pepper and add a little 
cream or butter. Chill and serve. 

The milk should not be allowed to heat above luke-warm temperature, or 
the curd will be tough. 

Cottage cheese may be formed into small round balls and rolled in finely 
chopped parsley. These make an attractive salad alone or in combination with 
vegetables or fruits. 

If cottage cheese is preferred with sweets, such as fruit juices or jam, less 
salt and no pepper should be used for seasoning. 

The whey which drains from the curd in making cottage cheese may be 
used as a beverage if sweetened with sugar and flavoured with lemon juice. It 
should be strained and chilled before serving. 



11 

BAKED EGGS WITH CHEESE 

4 eggs Salt 

i c. grated cheese Pepper 

1 c. buttered bread crumbs 

Break the eggs into a buttered baking dish or into ramekins. Bake in a 
hot oven until cooked around the edges. Cover with seasoned cheese, then spread 
the top with buttered bread crumbs. Re-heat and serve hot. 



CHEESE BISCUITS 

2 c. flour i tsp. salt 

4 tsp. baking powder i c. milk (about) 

2 tbsp. lard or butter i c. grated cheese 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt together and rub in the fat evenly. 
Add the grated cheese and enough milk to make a soft dough. Roll, cut in shapes 
and bake in a hot oven. The dough should be handled as quickly as possible and 
mixed only enough to blend the ingredients. 



CHEESE STRAWS 

1 c. flour Salt 

4 tbsp. lard Cold water 

2 tbsp. butter Grated cheese 

Add the salt to the flour and into this cut the fat evenly. Add enough cold 
water to make a stiff dough. Chill and roll out one-quarter of an inch thick. 
Sprinkle one-half with grated cheese. Fold, pressing the edges of the dough firmly 
together. Fold again and roll out one-quarter of an inch thick. Sprinkle with 
cheese and repeat. Cut in strips about 5 inches long and one-third of an inch 
wide. Bake about 8 minutes in a hot oven. Serve with soup or salad. This 
is a good way of using left over pie paste. 



CHEESE CRACKERS 

Butter crackers sparingly and spread evenly with grated cheese, allowing 
about 2 teaspoons of cheese to each cracker. Sprinkle with salt. Place in a hot 
oven until the cheese is melted. Serve with soup or salad. 



CHEESE CANAPES 

Toast slices of bread about one-third of an inch thick. Sprinkle with a thick 
layer of grated cheese seasoned with salt and pepper. Place in a hot oven 
until the cheese is melted. Serve at once. The bread may be cut in different 
shapes, such as strips about 2 inches wide, or in circular shapes. 



CHEESE AND TOMATO SALAD 

Select medium sized ripe tomatoes. Peel and remove some of the pulp. 
Sprinkle with salt and fill cavities with seasoned cottage cheese, or grated cheddar 
cheese. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves with salad dressing. 



12 



DIGESTIBILITY OF CHEESE 

CHEESE is made easier of digestion by combining it with other foods. When 
eaten with bread, or other starchy food, such as potatoes or macaroni, it 
forms one of the most satisfactory food combinations and one which will not be 
difficult of digestion for most people. If eaten at the end of a heavy meal, as is 
common custom, it may tax the digestive organs, but if eaten as the main dish 
at a meal which is finished with a light dessert, it is not likely to cause any 
digestive disturbance. 

When used in cooking, care should be taken that the cheese is not heated to 
too high a temperature, as heat will toughen protein foods and make them harder 
to digest. Cheese is very thoroughly digested. It is all, or nearly all, used by 
the body to build new tissues and to provide energy for the body to do its work. 

For invalids and for young children, a large amount of cheese is not recom- 
mended, but for older boys and girls, as well as adults, it is one of the best 
muscle builders and one which is entitled to a larger place in our menus. 



USE OF CHEESE IN THE DIET 

ALTHOUGH cheese may be served without any further preparation, it can 
be used in cooking in many different ways. It does not lose its flavour 
or nutritive value in cooking, but it should be borne in mind that cheese will be 
harder to digest if subjected to a high temperature. Because cheese is a highly 
concentrated protein food, it should be combined and eaten with starchy foods 
such as bread, and the addition of vegetables and juicy fruits to the menu is 
advisable. Accompanying dishes should not contain much fat, as cheese has a 
very high percentage. 

The composition of cheese makes it a suitable substitute for meat or fish. 
If served in quantity, it can well replace these more expensive foods in many 
meals and should be used in this way rather than as a supplement to them. The 
diet will thus remain well balanced and the cost will be considerably less. 



13 



CHEESE AND OLIVE SALAD 



Put Cheddar cheese through a meat chopper or grate finely. Mix with a 
little cream and season with salt and pepper. Mix this with" finely chopped 
olives. Mould into small balls or rolls and arrange on crisp lettuce leaves. 
Serve with salad dressing. Chopped parsley or lettuce mav be sprinkled over 
the top. 

Cream cheese or cottage cheese may be used for this salad and are equally 
delicious in flavour. 

POTATO AND CHEESE SALAD 

Mix finely chopped or grated cheese with cold potatoes cut in cubes. Season 
with salt and pepper and moisten with salad dressing. Place by spoonfuls on 
lettuce leaves and serve cold. 

Chopped celery, finely minced onion or pimento in small pieces may be 
added and give variety to the salad. 

CHEESE AND CELERY SALAD 

Wash celery thoroughly and crisp by placing on ice or in very cold water. 
Mix cream cheese or grated Cheddar cheese with salt and finely chopped nuts. 
Moisten with a little salad dressing or cream. Dry the celery and fill the hollow 
part with the cheese mixture. Serve on lettuce leaves. The celery may be cut 
into 2-inch pieces before placing on the lettuce. 

PINEAPPLE AND CHEESE SALAD 

Place slices of canned or raw pineapple on lettuce leaves. Put a ball or 
small mould of cottage cheese in the centre and garnish with chopped nuts or 
olives. Serve with salad dressing. Sour cream dressing is delicious with this 
salad. Cream cheese may be used for this salad, or mild cheddar cheese grated 
and moistened with a little cream or salad dressing. 

FRUIT AND CHEESE SALAD 

Moisten cottage cheese, cream cheese or grated mild Cheddar cheese with 
cream or salad dressing. Add finely chopped nuts if desired. Form into small 
balls and fill cavities of large peaches cut in half, firm pears or large cooked 
prunes. Serve on lettuce leaves with salad dressing. 

ASTORIA SALAD 

4 large figs 8 i arge dates 

1 tsp. lemon juice Almonds 

Soft cheese 

A< ?{? t !l e lemon ^ uice to the cheese and scason with salt. Beat smoothlv. 
Chop the dates, figs and almonds together. Add the cheese mixture and beat 
thoroughly. Form into moulds or balls and serve on lettuce leaves with some 
sour cream salad dressing or mayonnaise. 



14 



HOW TO BUY AND KEEP CHEDDAR CHEESE 

CANADIAN Cheddar cheese is made in various sizes from small cheese weigh- 
ing 5 and 10 pounds to large cheese weighing 80 pounds. It can be secured 
at all seasons of the year and in almost any quantity. Many people prefer to buy 
only what is needed for a few days at a time and, in that case, there is no diffi- 
culty in keeping it. Those who live some distance from a shop can buy it in 
large amounts and. with proper care, keep it in good condition for considerable 
time. 

For the average family a 10-pound cheese is usually a convenient amount 
to buy at one time. One-half of the cheese may be preserved for future use by 
covering the freshly cut side with a thin layer of paraffin wax and keeping it 
in as cool a place as possible until required. The other half will keep fresh and 
moist if put on a flat plate or sheet of waxed paper with the freshly cut side 
down. When serving, it is better to scoop out the amount required with a small 
spoon or knife, leaving the outer edge uncut. The cheese should be turned 
upside down on the plate as soon as the meal is over and put away in the coolest 
place available. This will prevent the cheese from becoming hard or dry and 
there will be no danger of it moulding. 

A 5-pound cheese is a convenient shape and size for family use. This will 
keep very satisfactorily if a thin layer is cut off the top and the cheese inverted 
on a plate. 

If cheese is allowed to become hard and dried out, it is not spoiled and 
should not be wasted. It can be grated and used in cooking. If very dry, 
cheese will keep well if put in a clean, dry, glass jar and it is just as valuable 
for cooking as fresh moist cheese. It will usually have a more pronounced 
flavour than fresh cheese and this is often desirable when combining it with 
other foods. 



The annual consumption of cheese in the United Kingdom is estimated at about 
13 pouncte per capita. In Canada it is not over 3J pounds per capita. 



15 



DEVILLED EGGS WITH CHEESE 



4 hard cooked eggs Salt 

Grated cheese Pepper 

i tsp. mustard 1 tap. vinegar 

Cut the eggs in halves and remove the yolks. Mash the yolks and add 
the cheese, vinegar and seasonings. Make into small balls resembling yolks 
and refill the whites. Arrange on lettuce leaves and serve with salad dressing. 
These mav be served hot with cheese sauce. 



BREAD FOR SANDWICHES 

Bread for sandwiches should be cut with a sharp knife, so that the edges 
of the bread will not be rough or uneven. It should not be more than one- 
quarter of an inch thick. 

Crusts may be removed if desired, but are often left on. 

Brown or whole wheat bread may be used instead of white bread. Brown 
bread combines well with cheese. 

BUTTER FOR SANDWICHES 

Butter should always be mixed until soft and creamy before spreading on 
bread for sandwiches, it can then be spread more evenly and without danger 
of breaking the bread. 

CHEESE PASTE FOR SANDWICHES 

1 c. grated cheese A little onion juice or grated onion 
i c. tomato catsup i tsp. salt 

2 ttosp. chopped nuts Pepper 

Mix ingredients together and beat well. Spread between slices of bread 
cut thin. This will be sufficient paste for about twenty-four sandwiches. 

CHEESE AND JELLY SANDWICHES 

Cut slices of bread thinly. Butter sparingly and spread one slice with a 
layer of cottage, cream or grated cheese. Spread the other slice with jelly. 
Press together and cut in desired shapes. 

These may be toasted in a hot oven before serving, if desired. 

Jam may be used instead of jelly. 

TOASTED CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Cut fresh bread in slices about one-eighth of an inch thick. Remove the 
crusts and butter very sparingly. Spread with grated cheese and sprinkle with 
a little salt. Put the slices together to form a sandwich and press firmly. Roll 
and fasten with tooth picks. Bake in a hot oven until the bread is slightly 
browned. Serve at once. 

The sandwiches need not be rolled, but cut in desired shapes and toasted 
in the oven in the same way. 

Instead of placing in the oven, they may be browned by placing on a pan 
greased slightly with bacon fat or butter. 



Other publications of the Dairy and Cold Storage Branch relating to 
the food value of dairy products 

(Available for free distribution) 

Why and How to Use Skim-milk. 

Why and How to Use Cream. 

Why and How to Use Cottage Cheese. 

Why and How to Use Buttermilk. 

Milk Drinks. 

Why and How to Use Milk. 

Home-made Frozen Desserts. 

An Argument in the Kitchen (A playlet for children, in one act). 

The Care of Milk in the Home. 

Why Pasteurize Milk. 

School Lunches. 



Othwa: Printed by J. O. Pajenavde, ISO.. Printer to the King's Most Excellent Majesty, 1938. 



