



mi 



^^ 



MA 



^^ph 



y 



NUTRITION 



Final Report of the Mixed Committee 
of the League of Nations 



ON 



THE RELATION OF NUTRITION 

^O HEALTH, AGRICULTURE AND 

ECONOMIC POLICY 



\ j# iK A p: ^ 

1 



^^Y^f^ 



/ 



Geneva, 1937 



Published previously : 



THE PROBLEM OF NUTRITION 



General report on humaa nutrition presented \q the 1936 Assembly 
by a Mixed Committee forjthe Study of Problems of Nutrition set up 
by the Council of the League. It includes the following four volumes: 



VOLUME I. 

Interim Report 
of the Mixed Committee on the Problem 

of Nutrition. 

(Ser. I, ..I.N. P. 1936.II.B.5). 
98 pages. 2/- $0.50 

A general survey of the pi>>blem of nutrition and of the conclusions 
arrived at by experts concerning the connection between rational 
nutrition and public health. 

The economic depression has led to the appearance, in various regions, 
of numerous " deficiency " diseases. Malnutrition is not, however, 
entirely the fault of povert}': it exists as a chronic condition in every 
country, even in districts where the standard of living has not been 
lowered in other respects. The report reveals thai there is not a single 
country where the entire population enjoys a standard of nutrition adequate 
for the maintenance of health. 



VOLUME II. 
Report on the Physiological Bases of Nutrition 

(Ser. L.O.N. P. 1936.II.B.4). 
27 pages. 6d. $0.15 

A statement of the standards of nutrition agreed upon, after consulting 
experts, by the Technical Commission of the League Health Committee. 

^t defines the food requirements of different categories of the popu- 
jn under normal conditions and in certain special cases (physical 
k of a tr5dng nature, expectant and nursing mothers) in calories, in 
;ein, in fats, in vitamins and in mineral elements. Special attentior 
lid to children. 



[Communicated to the Assembly, Official No. : A. 13. 1937.II.A. 

the Council and the Members 
of the League.] 

Geneva, August 14th, 1937. 



NUTRITION 



Final Report of the Mixed Committee 
of the League of Nations 



ON 



THE RELATION OF NUTRITION 

TO HEALTH, AGRICULTURE AND 

ECONOMIC POLICY 



Series of League of Nations Publications 

II. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL 
1937. II.A. 10. 



— 3 — 



Final Report of the Mixed Committee of 

the League of Nations on the Relation of 

Nutrition to Health, Agriculture 

and Economic Policy. 



Contents. 



Part I. 

Page 

Chapter i. — Introductory 9 

Chapter 2. — A Ckntury of Progress in Nutrition and Public Health 24 

Chapter 3. — Summary and Conclusions: 

A. Summary of the Report 32 

B. Methods of Improving Nutrition 34 

Recognition of Nutrition as a National Problem 35 

National Nutrition Committees 35 

Education 38 

Income Level and Distribution 39 

Social Provision 41 

School Meals 42 

Dietary Policies in Public and Private Provision of Food Needs . 44 

C. The Adaptation of Agriculture 44 

Food Supplies and Food Prices 49 

D. Future Work of the League of Nations in Nutrition 51 

Recommendations put forward by the Mixed Committee on the 

Problem of Nutrition in its Interim Report 54 

S. d. N. 2,160 (F.) 4,350 (A.) 8/37. Imp. Kundig. 



— 4 



Part II. 

Page 
Nutrition and Health : 

1. Introduction 59 

2. The Principles of Correct Nutrition 6o 

3. " Energy-bearing " and " Protective " Foods 63 

4. Special Dietary Needs of Different Classes and Age-groups .... 65 

(a) Expectant and Nursing Mothers 66 

{b) Infants 68 

(c) Early Childhood, Pre-school Age, Nursery-school Age .... 72 

{d) School Age 73 

{e) Adolescence 77 

(/) Young Soldiers 78 

{g) Adults 79 

5. The Modern Science of Nutrition and the London Report: The 

New Science of Nutrition 82 

6. Dietary Standards adopted in the London Report 84 

(a) Energy Requirements 85 

(b) Protective Foods, Mineral and Vitamin Requirements ... 86 

(c) Energy-bearing Foods 91 



Part III. 



Chapter i. — Recent Trends in Food Habits: 

A. Introductory 97 

B. Trends in the Consumption of Various Groups of Food 99 

Cereals 10° 

Sugar 107 

Meat 109 

Fish "2 

Poultry and Eggs "4 

Dairy Products i^S 

Vegetable Oils 121 

Vegetables 124 

Fruit 126 

C. General Summary of Consumption Trends 133 

D. Factors determining Observed Trends in Food Consumption Habits 141 



— 5 — 

Page 
Chapter 2. — Agriculture and Nutrition: 

A. Introductory ' 151 

B. The Problem of Agricultural Adaptation 152 

C. Obstacles to Agricultural Adaptation 163 

D. Recent Changes in Agricultural Methods 173 

E. EflEect of Improved Nutrition on Agriculture 178 

Chapter 3. — Food Prices and Consumption 185 

Chapter 4. — ■ Factors influencing Food Prices: 

A. Introductory 204 

B. Efficiency and Cost of Production 204 

C. Commercial Policy 206 

D. Price and Production Control 226 

E. Distribution Costs 231 

Chapter 5. — The Relation of Income to Nutrition 240 

A. Relation of Income to Total Food Expenditure 241 

B. Relation of Total Food Expenditure to Nutrition 246 

C. Income Elasticity of Demand for Various Foods 256 

D. Influence of Size and Age of Family 260 

E. Adequacy of Income for Nutrition 265 

F. Determinants of Income 268 

Chapter 6. — • The Relation of Education to Nutrition: 

A. Introductory 280 

B. Scope for influencing Consumption through Education 280 

C. Measures for spreading Information on Rational Nutrition .... 290 

Chapter 7. — Evidence of Malnutrition in Certain Countries . . 296 

United States of America and Western Europe 297 

Union of South Africa and Australia 307 

Central and Eastern Europe 310 

Asia 317 

Colonial Areas 3-^° 

List of Tables and Diagrams 323 



V 



PART I. 



Chapter 1. — Introductory. 

2. — A Century of Progress in Nutrition and Public 

Health. 

3. — Summary and Conclusions. 



Chapter 1. 

INTRODUCTORY. 

I. The Mixed Co mmittee on the P roblem of Nutrition was set 
up under a resolution of the sixteenth Assembly in 1935 to study 
both the health and economic aspects of the nutrition problem. 
It consists of agricultural, economic and health experts and includes 
also representatives of the Advisory Committee on Social Questions, 
the International Labour Organisation and the International 
Institute of Agriculture.^ 



1 The composition of the Committee was as follows: 

The Viscount Astor (Chairman), member of the House of Lords, Chairman 

of the Milk-in-Schools Advisory Committee (under the Milk Marketing 

Board) ; formerly Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Food and 

later to the Ministry of Health. 
Baron G. Acerbo (representing the International Institute of Agriculture), 

President of the International Institute of Agriculture; former Minister; 

Dean of the Economic and Commercial Faculty in Rome University. 
Professor Thure Bjoerkman, Secretary-General of the Royal Agricultural 

Academy, Stockholm. 
M. C. V. Bramsnaes (representing the International Labour Office), Director 

of the National Bank of Denmark; former Finance Minister, Copenhagen. 
M. Ramon Cantos, former Deputy in the Cortes, Madrid. 
M. Leon Dupriez, Secretary-General of the Belgian Economic Recovery Office; 

Professor of Political Economy at Lou vain University; Director of the 

Institute of Economic Sciences at Louvain, Belgium. 
Dr. L. Feierabend, President of the Grain Monopoly, Prague. 
M. Casimir Fudakowski, Senator; former President of the Polish Federation 

of Chambers of Agriculture; Vice-President of the International Agricultural 

Commission; Member of the Economic Committee of the International 

Institute of Agriculture, Warsaw. 
M. Enrique J. Gajardo (representing the Child Welfare Committee), Head 

of the Permanent Bureau of Chile at the seat of the League of Nations. 
M. Jules Gautier (deceased November 24th, 1936), Vice-President of the 

International Agricultural Commission, Paris. 
M. Edo Markovic, General Manager of the Privileged Joint Stock Company 

for the Export of Products of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, Belgrade. 
Professor E. V. McCollum, Professor of Biochemistry, School of Hygiene and 

Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, United States of 

America. 
Mr. F. L. McDougall, Economic Adviser to the AustraUan Government, 

London. 
Sir Edward Mellanby, Secretary-General of the Medical Research Council, 

London. 

\_Note continued on page 10 



— 10 — 

The Assembly resolution made express provision for the co- 
operation of these two last-mentioned organisations, in view of 
the nature of their activities and interests. 

2. The Assembly resolution resulted from a growing recognition 
of the importance of taking active measures to improve nutrition 
to which expression was given by a number of delegates during 
the debate on the subject. It was thought that the time had come 
for the League of Nations to make a thorough investigation of the 



M. G. DE MiCHELis, Ambassador; Senator; Member of the National Research 

Council, etc., Rome. 
Professor Edwin G. Nourse, Director of the Institute of Economics, Brookings 

Institution, Washington. 
Dr. Carlos A. Pardo, Commercial Counsellor at the Argentine Legation in 

Switzerland, Berne. 
M. H. QuEuiLLE, Senator; former Minister of Agriculture and former Minister 

of Public Health, Paris. 
M. VAN RijN (representing the International Institute of Agriculture), Vice- 
President of the International Institute of Agriculture, Rome. 
M. Stevens, Engineer; Inspector of Agriculture; Head of the Agricultural 

and Economic Information Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, 

The Hague. 
Dr. Faith Williams (representing the International Labour Office), Chief 

of the " Cost of Living Division ", Department of Labour, Washington- 



M. Halbwachs, Professor at the Sorbonne, Paris, took the place of Dr. Faith 
Williams at the first session, and of M. Bramsnaes at the second session. 

M. Jan WszELAKi, Economic Counsellor at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, 
Warsaw, took the place of M. Fudakowski at the first session. 

Mr. Warren C. Waite, Professor at Minnesota University (United States of 
America), and Mr. Harold B. Rowe, of the Brookings Institution, Washington, 
took the place of Professor Nourse, the former at the first session and the latter 
at the second session. 

M. DE MicHELis and Baron Acerbo did not attend. 

M. Aug6-Laribe, representative for France and the French colonies on the 
Permanent Committee of the International Institute of Agriculture, attended as 
substitute at the first session, and replaced Baron Acerbo at the third. 

Miss Charlotte Whitton, Director of the Canadian Welfare Council, Representa- 
tive of the Advisory Committee on Social Questions, which absorbed the Child 
Welfare Committee in January 1937, replaced M. Gajardo at the third session. 

M. J. L. DE la Loma y Oteyza, chief of the Statistical, Economic and Agricul- 
tural Policy Section at the Ministry of Agriculture, took the place of M. Cantos 
at the third session. 

Professor Bjoerkman, M. de Michelis, Dr. Pardo and M. Stevens were 
unable to attend the third session. 

The representatives of the International Institute of Agriculture were on one 
or more occasions assisted by: 

M. Brizi, Secretary-General of the Institute; 

M. Dore, Head of the Bureau of General Statistics; 

Dr. Pavlovsky, Head of the Bureau of Economic and Social Studies. 



II 



work being carried out in the interest of improved nutrition in a 
number of countries, this investigation to cover at once the dietetic 
and economic aspects of the problem. 

3. The world had just experienced the evils of a long and severe 
economic depression. The production of all kinds of foodstuffs 
had been steadily increasing; markets were glutted and producers 
were faced with ruin ; at the same time, careful enquiries in a number 
of countries had shown how extensive was the failure to satisfy 
normal nutritional requirements. Indeed, while owners of food 
stocks were unable to find remunerative markets, some parts of 
the world were suffering from famine; in others, large sections of 
the population were suffering from serious malnutrition. This 
malnutrition, moreover, was not confined to the poorest classes. 
Wherever this state of affairs was found to exist, it caused the 
most serious apprehension, not merely on humanitarian grounds, 
but also because of its possible effect upon the social structure 
and internal peace of the countries concerned.- 

4. Hence the question naturally arose whether it was not the 
duty of the public authorities to assume the responsibilities inherent 
in a " nutrition policy " ; to elaborate such a policy and apply it 
in such a manner as at once to benefit agriculture and promote 
public health; to combat malnutrition and, in so doing, to afford 
some measure of relief to the agricultural depression, especially 
by increasing the consumption of the so-called " protective " foods 
which enable men, women and children to obtain full physical and 
mental development, at the same time increasing their resistance to 
many diseases {e.g., scurvy, beri-beri, rickets and other bone defects; 
dental caries; tuberculosis and bronchial pneumonia, which so 
often develop from measles, whooping-cough and other children's 
diseases ; and also to such conditions as anaemia, night-blindness, etc.) . 

5. Although the concern of Governments in improved 
nutrition is by no means new, action has in the past general^ 
been limited in scope. In the discussions of the seventeenth 
Assembly, it was suggested that it was the duty of the 
public authorities to extend their sphere of action. This new 
conception was due to research conducted over a long series 
of years by individuals in a number of countries. Since 1925, 
it has received an impetus from the Health Organisation of the 



— 12 — 

League of Nations, which has been engaged upon enquiries, 
conducted frequently on the spot, in regard to the state of nutrition 
in various parts of the world. These investigations, which were 
gradually extended from one question to another, culminated 
in 1935 in a general report on nutrition ^ which attracted consider- 
able attention. This report, which was the work of Dr. E. Burnet 
and Dr. W. R. Aykroyd, was intended primarily for national health 
authorities, and was devoted in the main to a consideration of the 
importance of nutrition in public health and preventive medicine. 
Its authors came to the conclusion that nutrition was no longer an 
exclusively physiological problem and that henceforward, it must 
be a matter of concern to both public health officers and economists. 

6. The Assembly's intention, in deciding upon an international 
enquiry into this matter, was not to supply the Governments with 
ready-made or uniform solutions, but rather to enable them to 
work out solutions for themselves by adapting such conclusions 
as might be reached by the Mixed Committee to conditions in their 
respective countries. The Assembly also desired to put public 
opinion in possession of the most recent information on this subject 
and to draw the attention of public authorities to a task which, if 
somewhat neglected in the past, is likely to demand more and more 
of their attention. 

7. The Mixed Committee entered upon its duties in February 
1936; the first session was held from February loth to i6th and the 
second from June 4th to 7th, 1936. Its initial findings were recorded 
in an ^nterim^report, which is briefly analysed in paragraphs 12 
and 13 below. 

8. The International Labour Office had already taken up 
the problem of nutrition and had examined certain of its aspects 
from its own particular point of view. In pursuance of a resolution 
adopted at the nineteenth session of the International Labour 
Conference (June 1935), it published in May 1936 a general report 
on " Workers' Nutrition and Social Policy ".^ 



^ Published in Volume IV, No. 2, June 1935, of the Quarterly Bulletin of the 
Health Organisation. 

2 " Workers' Nutrition and Social Policy " : Studies and Reports (Social and 
Economic Conditions), No. 23, International Labour Office, Geneva, 1936. 
249 pages. 



— 13 — 

In this report, emphasis is laid on the fact that " large numbers 
of the working population, not only in impoverished or depressed 
areas, but even in the most advanced industrial countries, are inade- 
quately nourished. Such malnourishment and under-nourishment 
are not the result merely of temporary dislocation due to an indus- 
trial depression, though a depression usually has an aggravating 
influence. It is a condition found among many employed workers 
in times of normal business activity. " The report enquires into 
the causes of this state of affairs. It describes what has been done to 
mitigate it. 

9. The Mixed Committee found this report of the greatest 
value in regard to one of the most important points in its own 
programme of work. It also made use of a great variety of material 
obtained from a number of different sources. Some thirty countries 
supplied information regarding the state of nutrition of their own 
people and the action taken in this connection by public or other 
authorities. This material,^ which related to countries of different 
social and economic structure, enabled the Committee to view the 
problem from different angles. 

10. At the request of the Mixed Committee, the International 
Institute of Agriculture at Rome also conducted a special study 
on production, consumption and price statistics, which was 
published as Volume IV of the Committee's interim report. By the 
terms of the Convention that established it, that Institute is spe- 
cially qualified to represent agricultural interests in any attempt to 
secure a harmonious adjustment between production and consump- 
tion. Its general assembly already mentioned laid stress upon the 
fact that it was in the farmer's true interest to satisfy the consumer's 
needs, as regards both quantity and quality ; it urged the Permanent 
Committee of the Institute to neglect no single aspect of the 
nutrition problem as it affects agriculture, and especially to study 
its possible influence on agricultural production, the division of 
crops, the feeding of the peasant classes, the supplying of markets, 
etc. For this general survey, which entails a study of present 
conditions in the hope of discerning future trends, statistical 
material is an essential basis. Unfortunately, that material is far 



1 League of Nations: " The Problem of Nutrition ", Vol. III. 



— 14 — 

from complete; the International Institute of Agriculture is doing 
its utmost to make good this deficiency. 

11. The Committee had also before it the results of the enquiries 
conducted by the Health Organisation of the League of Nations. 
In addition to the Burnet-Aykroyd report referred to above, special 
mention must also be made of another document of first import- 
ance — namely, the " Report on the Physiological Bases of Nutri- 
tion ", drawn up by a Commission of scientists of worldwide repu- 
tation. The findings of this report form the scientific basis of the 
Committee's work ; they set out the principles of rational nutrition 
in the present state of scientific knowledge, and specify the nutri- 
tional requirements of the individual at the various stages of his 
development. It has been rightly said that the work of this Com- 
mission constituted an important date in the history of the science 
of nutrition. 

12. In June 1936, shortly before the Assembly, the Mixed 
Committee published its interim report in four volumes. The 
report proper (Volume I) ; the " Report on the Physiological 
Bases of Nutrition " (Volume II) ; " Nutrition in Various Countries " 
(Volume III), which is a digest of the information supplied by the 
countries concerned or obtained from other sources; " Statistics 
of Food Production, Consumption and Prices" (Volume IV), 
compiled by the International Institute of Agriculture, Rome. 

13. The Committee considered it expedient to submit this 
interim report before completing the whole of its investigations, 
as it was anxious to focus attention at once on certain aspects 
of the problem and to stimulate action. The report was accordingly 
devoted primarily (i) to explaining the new conceptions which, in the 
opinion of scientists, should govern human nutrition and to showing 
the effects of disregarding these rules and (ii) to the framing and 
exposition of a series of recommendations which it suggested might 
constitute the general guiding principles of national nutrition 
policies. In framing these recommendations, it made it clear that 
they were not intended to be more than suggestions which would 
require to be adapted to national conditions. 

The economic and agricultural aspects of the problem, referred 
to briefly in the interim report, were reserved for fuller treatment 
later. The present report is primarily concerned with them. 



— 15 — 

14- The report submitted in 1936, although only provisional 
aroused very general interest. The welcome given to it by public 
opinion, to judge from the Press comments in many countries, 
shows the importance attached to this question, with which the 
tranquillity of the world is so closely linked. The Mixed Committee's 
work came at the right moment and strengthened the efforts of the 
many national organisations which are trying to initiate action 
along these lines or to further such action where it is already being 
taken. 

15. The seventeenth Assembly endorsed the guiding principles 
of policy put forward by the Mixed Committee and recommended 
their adoption by Governments. At the same time, it decided 
to give a fresh impetus to the studies undertaken, both those 
devolving on the Mixed Committee and those of a more specialised 
nature which fall to the Health Organisation. Among the recom- 
mendations endorsed was one to " co-ordinate the work done by 
different authorities which affects the nutrition of the people 
and, in the absence of a central authority, to set up a special body 
for this purpose in order to secure unity of policy and direction ". 
With a view to co-ordinating the activities of these committees 
— some of which had already been set up — the Assembly suggested 
that it might be well to arrange for an exchange of views and 
experience between their leading members. 

16. A meeting of representatives of a number of National 
Committees was accordingly held at Geneva from February 22nd 
to 26th, under the chairmanship of Lord Astor. The agenda was 
confined to the following points : 

1. Status and composition of National Committees; 

2. Work already done and in progress; methods to be 
employed in order: 

{a) To assess the state of nutrition of the national 

population ; 
(&) To spread the principles of improved nutrition 

among the population. 



— i6 — 

Each of these points afforded an opening for interesting 
discussions. Those present at the meeting described what had been 
done in their respective countries to introduce new food-consump- 
tion habits, to improve the state of public health and maintain the 
improvement when secured. A wide variety of methods has been 
employed, but there is general agreement on the need for spreading 
a knowledge of the value of protective foods and of the importance 
of a correct balance in the daily diet. Much striking evidence 
was produced of the effect of such a balance on health and growth, 
especially in the case of children, but there is equally abundant 
and striking evidence that an " optimum condition " is rare, not 
to say exceptional. 

17. The composition and status of National Committees vary 
in different countries; indeed, rigid standardisation would make 
them unadaptable to national conditions. The members of the meet- 
ing unanimously agreed, however, that those bodies should be so 
constituted as, in the Assembly's words, " to secure unity of policy 
and direction ". One essential condition for this seems to be that 
they should be incorporated in the State administrative organisa- 
tion. A National Committee that depends entirely on private 
initiative for its driving power and its finances, as some do, is 
undoubtedly not in a position to perform its functions satisfactorily. 

On the other hand, National Committees are likely to be greatly 
strengthened by the addition of members who are not Ministers 
of State or State officials. 

In some countries, the creation of non-Governmental committees 
alongside the official National Committee may prove of real value. 

18. It is plain that a national nutrition policy must be based 
on periodical enquiries into food-consumption habits. The methods 
generally employed to determine the state of nutrition of the 
population were discussed at length and a number of principles 
and rules for guidance embodied in an aide-memoire which will, 
it is hoped, be elaborated by a technical committee of the League's 
Health Organisation. As long ago as 1926, the International Labour 
Office held a conference of labour statisticians, and published a 
report on methods of securing and analysing data on consumption 
of food and other goods and services by workers. The expert mem ■ 
bers of the Committee advising the International Labour Office 



— 17 — 

on nutrition have recently recommended to the Governing Body 
of that Organisation to arrange for a further international discussion 
on the subject in collaboration, especially, with the experts of the 
League Secretariat and of National Nutrition Committees. The 
Committee attaches importance to effective co-operation between 
these organisations in order to improve the methods used in such 
investigations and, in the interest of international comparisons, 
to secure their greater uniformity. 

19. Since the publication of the Mixed Committee's interim 
report, the Health Organisation of the League of Nations has 
undertaken a series of relevant studies. It is thus making a valuable 
contribution to our knowledge of the general problem, the scientific 
aspect of which still offers great openings for research. 

20. The authors of the report on " The Physiological Bases of 
Nutrition " already mentioned recommended, when submitting 
their conclusions, the following ten problems for further studv: 



I 



Assessment of the nutritional state of children. 



2. Nutritive food requirements during the first year of life. 

3. Minimum vitamin and mineral requirements. 

4. Minimum fat requirements. 

5. The nutritive and " supplementary " values of the different protein- 
containing foods, to determine to what extent and in what forms animal 
protein is necessary for growth and health. 

6. The relative nutritive value of different cereals according to the degree 
of milling. 

7. The extent to which the increasing consumption of sugar is detrimental 
to health. 

8. Influence of climate on food requirements. 

9. The extent to which diets in common use fall below the standards 
recommended in this report. 

10. The optimum amounts of milk required at different ages. 

This list was later amplified by a proposal for special investiga- 
tions on the subject of milk, more particularly the additional 
nutritive effects of the reciprocal action of the dietetic elements 
contained in milk on the one hand, and cereals and potatoes on the 
other. 

21. The first of the subjects mentioned above — assessment of the 
nutritional state of children — was considered at a meeting of experts 
held in Geneva in December 1936. These experts recommended 



— i8 — 

several types of enquiry according to the number of children whose 
state of nutrition was to be examined. 

As a first type of enquiry, aiming at the rapid classification 
of a large number of individuals, they suggested that cards should 
be compiled showing age, sex, physical appearance, weight, height, 
and the results of a simple clinical examination. A second type of 
enquiry, involving more thorough examinations and covering a 
smaller number of individuals, includes, in addition to the tests 
employed in the first type, an economic and social investigation 
(more especially into the diet of the family and the child), a thorough 
medical examination, and a series of tests, particularly tests for 
latent predeficiency in vitamins A, C and D. A third type of enquiry 
aims at the scientific study of the influence of a quantitatively or 
qualitatively deficient diet on all the functions of the organism, 
both physical and mental. Enquiries of all these kinds are now 
being conducted in certain countries. In Sweden, they are to cover 
50,000 children; in Czechoslovakia, 10,000; and in Austria, 20,000. 
Similar investigations have also been in progress for some time in 
the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Poland and 
Norway. 

22. A second group of experts, which consisted chiefly 
of pediatrists, devoted its attention to determining the nutritional 
requirements during the first year of life, more especially in calories, 
proteins, carbohydrates, fat, mineral salts and vitamins. It set out 
its findings on the length of the period of breast feeding and of 
artificial feeding, on the administration of orange-juice, tomato-juice 
and cod-liver oil, and on the use of cereals, broth, vegetables and 
eggs in the diet of infants. 

23. The experts of the Health Organisation decided, moreover, 
to arrange for the study of the following three questions: 

(a) Has the daily administration of more than 750 c.c. of cow's milk to 
children between six months and one year any unfavourable influence on the 
nutritive exchanges and, in particular, on the absorption of calcium and iron ? 

{b) What are the differences between the action of an artificial preparation 
of an irradiated sterol and that or irradiated milk, when quantities containing 
the same number of international units of vitamin D are administered ? 

(c) Is it desirable to provide systematic preventive treatment against 
anaemia for all children between four months and one year by the adminis- 
tration of an iron salt ? 



— 19 — 

All the other problems mentioned in points 3 to 10 above are 
being studied by scientific institutions and learned societies in a 
number of countries. This procedure has been adopted in order to 
allow of full consideration being given to differences in geographical, 
economic and social conditions. 

24. Finally, experts in several countries have studied the 
methods adopted for providing the population — more particularly 
nursing mothers, infants at the breast and children — with an 
abundant supply of milk which, as a result of the technical super- 
vision of its production and the methods of preservation and 
distribution, can be relied upon to be pure. 

These studies are a continuation of those which have been on the 
Health Organisation's programme for the past six years and on 
which several publications have already appeared.^ 

The report on the investigations of these experts, which will be 
issued shortly, considers the milk problem in its various aspects 
- — nutritional, economic, social, veterinary and medical, all of which 
must be borne in mind in attempting to define a national milk 
policy. 

The results of these studies on such an essential food as milk 
constitute, in regard to a large number of countries, a source of 
information the value of which can scarcely be overrated. 



* 



25. The International Labour Organisation, for its part, 
was not inactive. Two resolutions adopted at the Conference 
at Santiago de Chile in January 1936, which was attended by 
the American States Members of that Organisation, recommended 
a series of studies and surveys on the nutrition of workers. In June 
1936, the International Labour Conference (twentieth session), 
after discussing the Office's initial report on " Workers' Nutrition 



1 " Milk Hygiene in the Department of Meurthe-et-Moselle ", by J. Parisot, 
P. Melnotte and L. Fernier [Quarterly Bulletin of the Health Organisation, 
Vol. Ill, No. 4). 

" The Milk Supply of North-American Cities ", by R. Burri (Switzerland) 
[Quarterly Bulletin of the Health Organisation, Vol. I, No. i). 

" The System of Grading Milk in the United States of America ", by Dr. G. S. 
Wilson (London) [Quarterly Bulletin of the Health Organisation, Vol. I, No. 4). 



— 20 — 

and Social Policy ", expressed the view " that the nutrition of the 
workers should be considered as one of the most important problems 
which the International Labour Organisation has to solve ". At 
the same time, it invited the International Labour Office to continue 
its studies in this field. 

26. Several other international organisations have shown 
by their discussions and expressed in resolutions the importance 
attached by them to the Mixed Committee's work and their 
desire to co-operate. As already mentioned, a representative 
of the Advisory Committee on Social Questions sits on the Mixed 
Committee. A delegate of the International Committee on Inter- 
co-operative Relations was also asked to attend the proceedings 
of the Mixed Committee in 1937. The reports of this Committee 
on Inter-co-operative Relations described the efforts which 
co-operative organisations have employed to enlighten and guide 
their members, both consumers and producers, on nutrition ques- 
tions. We desire to draw attention to the help which these bodies 
can give to public authorities in their efforts to promote nutrition 
and to suppress fraud. The League's Advisory Committee on Social 
Questions has, in execution of the seventeenth Assembly's decision, 
placed on its agenda the study, in collaboration with the Health 
Organisation and the International Labour Office, of the social 
effects of malnutrition on children of both rural and urban popula- 
tions. The International Commission of Agriculture, at a meeting 
held in July 1936 at Oslo, stressed particularly the economic 
importance of the problem and the need for a thorough study of the 
food position of the agricultural populations in connection with 
agricultural depression and unemployment. Lastly, the General 
Assembly of the International Institute of Agriculture, held in 
October 1936, decided to strengthen its collaboration with the 
Mixed Committee and laid down the lines of its own work and 
investigations on the subject of nutrition. 

27. The Mixed Committee has also received ample evidence 
of the close attention paid to its work by many private organisations 
and associations. 

28. All these various bodies and interests, inspired by a common 
aim, have given valuable support to the Mixed Committee. The 
latter can regard its task as completed if its conclusions furnish 



— 21 — 

all those interested in the problem with a basis for a working 
programme designed to secure greater health and prosperity. 

29. The Mixed Committee held its third and final session from 
April 12th to 17th, 1937, and approved the contents of its final 
report. It charged a Drafting Committee with the task of final 
editing; the Drafting Committee met from June nth to 13th, 1937, 
and approved the report in its present form. 

30. This final report is, like the interim report, mainly concerned 
with conditions in Europe and countries with a Western civilisation. 
If it proved necessary for the Committee to exclude Asia, Africa 
and tropical countries generally from its detailed studies, this was 
not due to any belittling of the importance of the question in those 
areas. On the contrary, the Committee considers that the problem 
is particularly acute in these parts of the world and calls for 
urgent attention. But it found from the outset of its work that it 
would encounter insurmountable difficulties, in present circum- 
stances, in obtaining adequate documentation in the time at its 
disposal. Moreover, as explained below, the Committee understands 
that appropriate initial measures are being taken by the Health 
Organisation with a view to promoting a full consideration of the 
problem of nutrition in the Far East. 

The Governments of these countries or those responsible for their 
administration are faced with an immense task. Hundreds of 
millions of persons dwell in these parts of the world. It is notorious 
that a large proportion of them live in a stage of continual malnu- 
trition; but up to the present very little systematic information 
on this point has been collected. Studies have, however, recently 
been initiated. Thus, the Government of the United Kingdom is at 
the moment pursuing an extensive enquiry into the state of 
nutrition in the colonial territories under its authority. Moreover, 
an international Governmental Conference on Rural Hygiene in 
Eastern Countries will meet in August of this year in Bandoeng 
(Java) under the auspices of the Health Organisation of the League 
of Nations. This Conference has adopted nutrition as one of the 
most important points on its agenda. The League Organisation is 
thus actively engaged upon the problem of nutrition in Eastern 
and tropical areas. 



— 22 — 

31. Within the limits defined in the preceding paragraph, 
the Mixed Committee has set out in this final report its views 
on the nutrition problem as a whole, in its health as well as in 
its economic and agricultural aspects. The physiological side of 
nutrition, which constitutes the basis of the Mixed Committee's 
work, had already been dealt with exhaustively in the interim 
report, but it was felt that the final report should be complete 
in itself; accordingly, the section of the interim report dealing with 
nutrition and health has been reproduced with such minor modi- 
fications as recent research has made necessary (Part II of the 
Final Report). In addition, desirous of setting the present move- 
ment towards better nutrition in its correct perspective in relation 
to improvement in public health generally, the Mixed Committee 
has very briefly summarised the evidence of the remarkable improve- 
ment in health conditions which has occurred in certain countries 
during the past two generations, and has endeavoured to indicate the 
part which better nutrition has played in this improvement and 
the part which it may be expected to play in further improvement 
in the future. (Part I, Chapter 2). 

32. In accordance with the instructions of the seventeenth 
Assembly, however, the bulk of this report deals with the economic 
and agricultural aspects of the nutrition problem. Believing that 
Governments, in considering their nutrition policies, would wish 
to know whether the changes in diet recommended by modern 
physiology were likely to involve any important break in con- 
sumption and production habits, the Committee has devoted a 
considerable part of this report (Part III, Chapters i and 2) to 
tracing the recent tendencies in food-consumption habits and in 
agricultural production. It has endeavoured to analyse the 
factors responsible for the changes observed and has studied the 
effect of improvements in agricultural methods on food supply, 
the effect of better feeding on agriculture and the obstacles to 
agricultural adaptation. 

The general conclusions reached are that food habits in Western 
communities have been tending to change in the right direction, 
and that not only world agriculture but also the various national 
agricultural systems should benefit from the increased demand resul- 
ting from an extension of the movement towards better nutrition. 

The problem of food prices is analysed in Part III, Chapters 3 



— 23 — 

and 4, where consideration is given to the effect of prices on 
consumption and to the effect on prices of efficiency of production, 
commercial and marketing pohcy and distribution costs. In 
Chapter 5, the Committee has analysed the role of income in 
determining nutritional levels, and in the next chapter it has 
devoted its attention to the part which education in the principles 
of correct nutrition plays and can play in determining food habits. 
In Chapter 7, evidence is presented to prove that, in spite of 
the gradual improvement in nutrition which has been traced in 
earlier chapters, malnutrition remains to-day a serious threat to 
health and weU-being. The Committee shows that, in countries 
of the most diverse social structure and general plane of hving, 
appreciable sections of the population are, for one reason or 
another, faihng to secure enough of the foods which the modern 
science of nutrition regards as essential for health and efficiency. 

33. As already indicated, this report is divided into three parts. 
Part I includes, in addition to this Introduction, the broad outUne 
of trends in public health referred to in paragraph 31 above, and, 
in Chapter 3, the conclusions reached by the Mixed Committee. 
This first part is intended to provide, in brief summary form, a 
statement of League activity in connection with nutrition, an 
outline of the results of the enquiry conducted by the Mixed 
Committee, and an account of the conclusions which it reached as 
a result of its studies and deliberations. Part II contains a 
revised reproduction of the section of the interim report which 
dealt with nutrition and health. Part III deals mainly with the 
agricultural and economic aspects of the problem and with the 
evidence of malnutrition in a number of countries. 

It is beheved that this division of the report will prove convenient ; 
the Mixed Committee expresses the hope that those concerned 
with the formulation and administration of nutrition policy will 
give careful attention to the detailed analysis contained in Parts II 
and III as well as to the broad generahsations of Part I. 



24 



Chapter 2. 

A CENTURY OF PROGRESS IN NUTRITION 
AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

1. Before proceeding to a full consideration of the problems of 
nutrition, it may be interesting to examine the part that nutrition 
has played in the increase in population and general improvement 
in public health and welfare during the last century or century and 
a half. 

2. Until the latter half of the eighteenth century, the population 
of Western Europe appears to have remained for many centuries 
on balance almost stagnant. Periods of normal growth of the 
population were constantly interrupted by famine and pestilence. 
Any increase was therefore halting and uncertain. The population 
of France, for instance, estimated at 20 millions in the thirteenth 
century, was about the same at the beginning of the eighteenth, 
although fluctuating widely in the intervening centuries. 

3. Towards the end of the eighteenth and beginning of the 
nineteenth centuries, important changes occurred. In the first 
place, fluctuations in population were reduced and the trend became 
definitely upwards. Thus, whereas the population of England and 
Wales had only increased by some 700,000 in the no years preceding 
1714, between 1801 and 1901 it increased by 23.6 millions, in spite 
of large-scale emigration. The population of France, stationary 
for so long, increased by 11. 4 millions, while in Europe as a whole 
the increase was even more striking. In the hundred years ending 
in 1900, the population of Europe grew from 187 millions to about 
400 millions, to reach probably not far short of 520 millions in 
1933- 

4. This enormous increase in population was not due to a rise 
in the birth rate, but to a considerable although gradual decline 
in the death rate; a marked extension took place in the average 
span of life of the individual. The expectation of life at birth for 



— 25 — 

the average German increased between the 1870's and 1924-1926 
from 35 years to 56. The Enghshman's average length of Ufe 
increased from 41 to 55.6 years between the 1870's and 1920-1922, 
and has since increased still further. A similar tendency was to be 
observed in the other countries of Western civilisation. 

5. Not only did population grow rapidly and the average 
expectation of life rise, but general health and physique improved 
at the same time. The incidence and fatality of many diseases fell 
off progressively during the nineteenth century, and there was 
undoubtedly an increase in stature. In those countries of Northern 
and Western Europe where conscription has existed since the 
beginning of the nineteenth century, measurements of hundreds of 
thousands of young men are taken each year. The average based 
on these measurements shows a striking though gradual increase. 
In Sweden, the average stature increased between 1840 and 1926 
by over 3 inches (8 cm.). In Denmark, the same increase took 
place between 1840 and 1913. In Norway, the increase was 4 inches 
(10 cm.) between 1800 and 1900, and, in the Netherlands, about 
5 inches between 1850 and 1907.^ 

A similar phenomenon has been observed among both male and 
female students at American universities. 

6. This improvement in vitality and physique was not the 
result of chance or natural selection. Two main influences appear 
to have been largely responsible. On the one hand there was a 
rapid growth of wealth, resulting mainly from advances in scientific 
knowledge and its application; the consequent technical progress 
in industry and agriculture, particularly through the introduction 
of machinery; improvements in transport — roads, canals, railways 
and steamships; and the development of banking and credit. 
The national income began to increase much faster than hitherto 
and the social conditions — housing, clothing, cleanliness, nutrition 
and education — of the lower-income groups were gradually im- 
proved. The developments which accompanied and followed the 
agricultural and industrial revolutions made available increased 
supplies of commodities of all kinds and particularly of food. The 
first chapter of Part III of this report gives statistics showing the 



1 Wroczynski, C. : " Physique and Health ", Bulletin of the Health Organisation, 
League of Nations, Vol. VI, No. 3, 1937. 



— 26 — 

rise in the quantity and variety of foods consumed during recent 
generations. Fresh fish, meat, fruits and vegetables became 
available throughout the year and to larger sections of the 
population. The national diet was supplemented by hitherto rare 
or unknown foods from distant lands. 

7. In addition to this improvement in economic welfare, 
important advances wers made in sanitation and medical knowledge. 
Even before the development of modern medicine and the new 
science of bacteriology gave a clearer understanding of the nature 
and causation of disease, sanitation, personal and public cleanliness 
and vaccination against smallpox had contributed much towards 
the reduction of sickness and death rates. 

8. There was thus an improvement both on the "positive" 
side in building up health, physique and resistance against illness 
generally, and on the " negative " side in controlling and preventing 
diseases. 

We can obtain some idea of the relative importance of the 
two main groups of factors — the economic and medical — in bringing 
about the improvement in general health and the resulting decrease 
in mortality rates during the last hundred years by observing the 
times at which these changes took place. It is thus important to 
note that the population increase and decline in the death rate from 
a number of diseases (especially tuberculosis) had started and got 
well under way before the new medical and bacteriological disco- 
veries had been made or applied. This suggests that the social 
and economic progress which had been gradually taking place since 
the time of the industrial revolution played an important and per- 
haps dominant role. It has been seen that the rise in economic 
prosperity resulted, in particular, in an improvement in diet, but it 
was not possible at the time to understand fully the connection 
between the dietary changes and the decline in mortality. 

9. Meanwhile, however, developments were taking place in 
the science of nutrition which have helped to throw some light on 
the nature of the relation between diet and health. 

For a hundred years after Lavoisier had first studied man as a 
machine capable of using the energy of food for his own activities, 
most attention was fixed on this energy aspect of nutrition. In these 
years, it was also found that some protein in the food was essential 



— 27 — 

for growth and existence and that certain mineral and other 
inorganic elements were also necessary. 

In the present century, this quantitative aspect of food was 
supplemented by discoveries which indicated the great qualitative 
difference in the natural value of foodstuffs independently of their 
total protein, fat and carbohydrate content. Thus, proteins were 
found to differ, those of milk and meat having greater value to the 
body than the protein of cereals. The discovery of vitamins 
emphasised this qualitative aspect of dietetics and, in particular, 
made men realise that food, in addition to supplying the material 
for energy and growth, held a dominant position in regard to health 
and disease. 

In the first place, it was found that a number of diseases, whose 
causes were hitherto unknown or merel}^ suspected, were due to 
dietetic errors. Rickets with its bony deformities, one of the scourges 
of Western civilisation, and beri-beri, a scourge of the rice-eating 
communities of the East, were shown to be dietetic in origin and 
easily preventable. Similarly, it was shown that scurvy, which 
caused such great losses in merchant ships on long voyages, could 
also be prevented and. cured by the right type of food. The list has 
been rapidly extended, and it is now known that manv common 
defects in bone structure which render fracture frequent and are 
not obvious to ordinary examination are due to wrong feeding, 
especially in infancy and childhood. The structure and regularity 
of the teeth and the growth of the jaws were found to depend on 
the diet of early life, and the occurrence of dental decay was 
evidently correlated with this defective structure. The drain on the 
pregnant mother of substances in her body during pregnancy 
and lactation were shown to call for good feeding during these 
periods in order to maintain her health. It also became apparent 
that defective feeding often reduced the resistance of individuals to 
infection, so that the properly fed child or adult might either escape 
some types of infection altogether or not succumb to the more 
serious complications that sometimes follow. Thus resistance to 
many of the serious infections of infancy and childhood, including 
tuberculosis, was found to be affected by diet. Some defects of the 
eyes — as, for instance, night-blindness — were also shown to be 
dietetic in origin and could be easily prevented and cured. Indeed, 
it became clear that many organs of the body might become defective 



— 28 — 

in structure and a large number of conditions of ill-health be brought 
about by diets which hitherto have been regarded as satisfactory. 
An understanding of these facts made it possible to classify food- 
stuffs into two main categories: one of foods which are mainly 
energy giving, such as cereals, fats, sugar, etc. ; the other of protec- 
tive foods rich in vitamins and mineral salts, such as milk, green 
vegetables, raw fruit, cod-liver oil, etc. An adequacy of both 
categories of foods was found to be necessary in order to secure 
optimum health, physique and resistance to disease. 

10. Recent observations and experiments have confirmed these 
important discoveries of the prominent role played by nutrition 
in developing health and physique. The world war afforded a 
striking demonstration of the effects of a deterioration in diet, 
when other factors (housing, sanitation, medical knowledge, etc.) 
were practically unchanged. The general death rate, and especially 
the death rate from tuberculosis — a still more sensitive index of 
nutrition conditions — rose in all countries (belligerent and others) 
where food restrictions were imposed on the population. The 
greatest rise occurred when and where the restrictions were most 
severe. The food-producer on the land suffered less than the 
city dweller, because he could always keep some foodstuffs for 
his own use. On the other hand, the inmates of prisons, asylums, 
etc., suffered most because they had no possibility of supplementing 
the official rations. 

In Germany, while the rise in the tuberculosis death rate 
from 1914 to 1918 was but 23% in the agricultural State of Bavaria, 
it was as much as 65% in Berlin. In Roubaix and Tourcoing, 
two industrial towns of occupied Northern France, the rates rose 
by 101% and 183% respectively. 

11. A further illustration is afforded by the effects of war-time 
food shortage on children. Their special food requirements for 
growth render children particularly sensitive to dietary deficiencies. 
Failure to achieve normal growth can easily be measured. This 
has been done for the school-children of Berlin. Those born and 
brought up during the war were definitely stunted. Thus, the 
children born in 1918 who entered school in 1925 were 2 to 2^ 
inches (6 to 6.5 cm.) smaller and 2 to 3 lb. (i to i^ kg.) lighter 
than those who entered school in 1933. The difference was even 



— 29 — 

greater for children leaving school (aged 13-14); it was from 
2/4 to 3 1/4 inches (6 to 8 cm.) in height and from 8 to 12 lb. (4 to 
5.5 kg.) in weight. In Leipzig, similarly, the average height 
of boys increased by 3 1/2 inches (7.5 cm.), that of girls by 
4Y2 inches (10,5 cm.), from 1918 to 1933. 

12. Additional evidence has been provided by recent experi- 
ments showing the rapid gain in stature and weight of children 
resulting from the addition to their usual diet of a school meal, 
or even of a glass of milk daily. Thus, in a boys' home near 
London, a gain of 7 lb. (more than 3 kg.) in weight and of 2.63 inches 
(6.7 cm.) in height in a year was recorded for boys who received 
half a litre (a pint) of milk daily in addition to the ordinary diet; 
others not receiving the additional milk gained only 3.89 lb. 
(1.7 kg.) and 1.84 inches (4.7 cm.) during the same period. 

The milk therefore accounted for an extra gain of 43% in height 
and 81% in weight. Similarly, milk given twice daily in Paris to 
school-children for six months resulted in a 40% extra gain of 
weight in boys and 65% in girls, as compared with children who 
had not received additional milk (1.67 kg. against 1.19 kg. in boys; 
1.63 against 0.99 kg. in girls). 

Many similar experiments might be cited from Japan, New 
Zealand, Norway, Scotland, the United States of America, etc. 

Moreover, the bodily gain was as a rule accompanied by a 
reduction of minor ailments and infections and by a definite 
improvement in vitality and in school results. 

13. Other striking examples, such as the suppression of beri- 
beri — a disabling and often fatal illness among the coolies of 
Malaya — ^by the mere addition to their usual diet of a cheap 
vitamin B extract, provided further confirmation of the close 
relation of food to health. 

14. Despite these impressive instances of what can be and has 
been achieved through positive correction of the diet, it is essential 
to realise that our knowledge of nutrition and of the other sciences 
on which public health policy must be based is not static, but is 
constantly progressing. From time to time, new discoveries are 
made which may not only add to our knowledge, but may also 
modify the emphasis to be placed on facts already known. Such 
discoveries will be studied by the Technical Commissions of the 



— 30 — 

Health Organisation of the League. As new knowledge is accepted 
and made known by scientific bodies, it will be part of the function 
of the National Committees to consider the poUcies best adapted 
for its apphcation. 

15. Even without further discoveries, however, there is, 
immense scope for the application of existing knowledge. 
For instance, the fact that improvements in stature are still taking 
place in a number of countries and that a large proportion of 
recruits are still rejected on account of physical defects indicates 
that, although progress has been real, there is still great room for 
improvement. 

16. Moreover, an examination of vital statistics in various 
countries shows large differences in mortality rates both as between 
different countries and between richer and poorer districts in the 
same country. Thus the death rates in New Zealand and the 
Netherlands, for instance, are less than one-third of those prevailing 
in some countries of South America, Africa or Asia; and in some 
cities, as London, Berlin and Paris, general mortality rates in poor 
districts are 50 % higher than in the wealthier ones, while tubercu- 
losis mortality is often four times as high in the former as in the 
latter, and the corresponding proportion of infantile mortality is 
as 2 to I. 

Similarly, the corrected ^ general mortality rate in a depressed 
area such as Merthyr Tydfil (South Wales) exceeds that of a well- 
to-do district such as Epsom and Ewell by 166 %.2 

17. There is no doubt that improvement in social conditions, 
and especially in the feeding of the population in these poorer 
countries, boroughs and districts, would bring about a considerable 
increase in health and save many lives. 

18. Elsewhere in this report the importance of nutrition in the 
prevention of disease and in the growth and health of the child 
and the adolescent has been clearly set out. Here we have shown 
how nutrition has played its part in the present stage of human 



1 The corrected rate is a rate in which due allowance has been made for variations 
in the age composition of the population. 

2 Computed from figures in " The Registrar-General's Statistical Review of 
England and Wales for the Year 1935 ", Part I, H.M. Stationery Office, London, 
1936. 



— 31 — 

progress in countries of Western civilisation. From what has been 
said, it is clear that, if Governments can achieve for their peoples 
adequate levels of food consumption, further progress, in no way 
less spectacular than that achieved during the nineteenth century, 
can be made in increasing the quantity and raising the quality of 
human life. Not only will national expenditure on hospitals for 
the treatment of sickness be thereby greatly reduced, but improved 
health will certainly be accompanied by increased efficiency and a 
rise in material welfare and happiness. Medical science has already 
made great strides in the control of disease: in this advance, the 
science of nutrition has participated, but the application of the 
" Newer Knowledge " has only just begun. If the hope which 
nutrition holds out can be transformed into a reality, entirely new 
perspectives will be opened up for the improvement of human 
welfare. 



— 32 



Chapter 3. 

SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS. 

A. Summary of the Report. 

1. The problem of nutrition necessarily varies widely from one 
part of the world to another. In some countries, an adequate 
diet is probably within the reach of the majority of the population; 
in others, practically all live but little above bare subsistence level. 
In some countries, food prices are relatively low; in others, they 
are high in relation to incomes. The League, through its Health 
Organisation, is making a special study of conditions in the Far 
East and certain other regions where the level of national income is 
generally low. Until these data are available, it is impossible to 
draw sound conclusions as to the nature of the nutritional problems 
in the Far East. We have therefore devoted our attention mainly 
to Europe, the British Dominions, South America and the United 
States of America. 

2. On account of differences in local and national conditions, 
nutrition policies must vary in different areas. But the ultimate 
goal must be everywhere the same: to ensure that all sections of 
the population obtain an adequate diet. By an adequate diet 
we mean one which includes sufficient of the energy-bearing and 
protective foods for optimum health. 

3. We have tried in the body of our report to show that the 
tendency towards better nutrition in the countries with which we 
have dealt is natural and strong; but that the movement is checked 
and obstructed at certain points, and requires to be directed and 
accelerated. 

4. We have argued ^ that food habits, at least in many parts 
of Western communities, have gradually been tending to change 
in the right direction; and have adduced statistical evidence to 
show that these communities, on the whole, are now consuming, 



^ See Part III, Chapter i. 



— 33 — 

in addition to the indispensable foods of high energy value, more 
milk and dairy products, more fruit and more vegetables than a 
generation ago. 

5. This improvement in the general level of nutrition has 
resulted in part from a better understanding of dietary needs, in 
part from a general increase in income and prosperity and in ease 
of transport, and in part from improvements in the methods of 
production and in the distribution of agricultural products. It is 
impossible to differentiate clearly between the influence of agri- 
culture on demand by the provision of cheaper and higher-quality 
food and the influence of enhanced demand on agriculture. Where 
the incentive has originated rather in increased demand, agriculture, 
as we have endeavoured to show,^ has, under the influence of 
remunerative prices, successfully adapted itself. The further 
changes which we may expect to result from the success of the 
present movement towards better nutrition must necessarily be 
gradual, and should, if wisely directed, be of great benefit to agri- 
culture by increasing the demand for almost all classes of agricul- 
tural products. 

6. The movement towards better nutrition has made consider- 
able progress, but it has not gone nearly far enough. Poverty and 
ignorance remain formidable obstacles to progress j^ the disparity 
between food prices and incomes ^ increases the difliculty experien- 
ced by the poorer sections of the community in obtaining an adequate 
supply of the proper foods. We have shown * that, in countries 
of the most diverse economic structure and general level of con- 
sumption, appreciable sections of the population are, for one reason 
or another, faihng to secure the food which is essential to their 
health and efficiency. The evidence that has been made available 
in recent years points to the conclusion that, as a result of insuffi- 
cient purchasing power, or as a result of the imperfect distribution 
of resources between food and other objects of expenditure, or 
through ignorance of food values or carelessness and indifference, 
or as a result of the maintenance of food prices at levels involving 



1 See Part III, Chapter 2. 

2 See Part III, Chapters 5 and 6. 

3 See Part III, Chapters 3 and 4. 
* See Part III. Chapter 7. 



— 34 — 

hardships to large sections of the community, or other causes, 
millions of people in all parts of the globe are either suffering from 
inadequate physical development or from disease due to malnutri- 
tion or are living in a state of subnormal health which could be 
improved if they consumed more or different food. That this 
situation can exist in a world in which agricultural resources are 
so abundant and the arts of agriculture have been so improved 
that supply frequently tends to outstrip effective demand remains 
an outstanding challenge to constructive statesmanship and 
international co-operation. 

7. The movement towards better nutrition in the past has been 
largely the result of the unconscious and instinctive groping of men 
for a better and more abundant life. What is now required is the 
conscious direction of the natural tendency towards better nutrition. 
Such direction constitutes policy. Nutrition policy, if it is to be 
successful, must be directed towards achieving two distinct, though 
mutually dependent, aims. Its primary concern is with consump- 
tion : with bringing the foods which modern physiology has shown 
to be essential for health and physical development within the 
reach of all sections of the community. But, in addition, it must 
also concern itself with supply. Changes in demand involve changes 
in supply; increased demand, increased supply. Nutrition policy 
must take into account the necessity for facilitating the adaptation 
of agriculture and possibly of commerce to changes in demand and 
of increasing supply as demand expands. We discuss separately 
these two aspects of nutrition policy in the sections which follow. 



B. Methods of improving Nutrition. 

8. Conditions determining food production, distribution and 
consumption differ too widely to permit of detailed suggestions 
being put forward for the improvement of nutrition equally appro- 
priate for all countries. We must confine ourselves to enunciating 
certain general principles and to making specific suggestions of 
more limited applicability. We have already expressed our views 
concerning the general principles of policy that should be pursued 
in the recommendations contained in our interim report. These 
recommendations were adopted by the seventeenth Assembly and 



— 35 — 

communicated, on its authority, to all Governments. In the light 
of our further studies on the problem of nutrition, we desire to 
reaffirm our belief in the general policy expressed in those recom- 
mendations. Such more specific suggestions as we wish to add in 
the present report cannot, for the reasons we have just indicated, 
so appropriately be summarised in the form of a series of recommend- 
ations. They require to be considered by each nation in the light 
of the evidence we adduce, and in the setting of the conditions we 
have described or of the conditions prevailing in each individual 
State. We hope, however, that the body of our report will be 
studied by all national authorities, and that the factors affecting 
nutrition which need further analysis will be considered in the 
light of national conditions. We further hope that the general 
principles and the suggestions which we set out in this chapter will 
be applied in each country. 

Recognition of Nutrition as a National Problem. 

9. For nutrition policy to be effective, the problem must be 
recognised as one of primary national importance. During the 
past half century, standards of sanitation and housing have under- 
gone remarkable changes in certain parts of the world; conditions 
which are to-day regarded as intolerable were fifty years ago 
considered normal. These standards are reflected in the greater 
welfare of the people. The present generation is effecting a similar 
change in its standards of nutrition. But the importance and future 
benefits of these new standards of nutrition to health and general 
well-being are not yet sufficiently widely recognised. It lies with 
Governments, supported by enlightened public opinion, to take 
the lead. There is no country in which conditions could not be 
improved with more Government help and direction; there is no 
country in which further measures to awaken or stimulate public 
opinion are not imperatively required. If Governments play their 
parts in giving a lead to the movement, private agencies may be 
expected to follow with their distinctive contributions. 

National Nutrition Committees. 

10. In our interim report, we suggested that a national nutrition 
policy requires the guidance of some central authority with special 



-36- 

responsibility in order to utilise to the best advantage the teachings 
of science, interpret them in the hght of national conditions and 
suggest means for their practical application. In making this 
suggestion, we were especially influenced by the many-sidedness 
of the problems of nutrition and by the necessity for co-ordinating 
economic and social action with new physiological teachings. 

11. We are now more than ever convinced of the necessity for 
bringing together scientists, economists, agricultural experts, 
consumers' representatives, teachers and administrators in National 
Nutrition Committees. If, as we hope, our own deliberations have 
been in some degree useful, it is largely due to the fact that the 
Mixed Committee has grouped together persons of diverse expe- 
rience who have viewed the problem of nutrition from different 
angles — whether of health, of labour, agriculture, economics and 
finance, social welfare, co-operation or administration. It is our 
firm conviction that through National Committees adequately 
representative of the various elements that go to constitute this 
complex problem the most useful progress can be made. 

12. One of the most important tasks of National Committees 
is, in our opinion, to ascertain the prevailing food-consumption 
habits and nutritional status of all sections of the population. 
Our own conclusions are based upon sample surveys covering a 
limited range of families ; more accurate and detailed investigations 
are required. We have been particularly impressed with the scar- 
city of reliable information regarding the food consumption of 
rural populations; the paucity of the data has, indeed, prevented 
us from dealing with the nutritional problems of this important 
section of the community in sufficient detail. Several National 
Committees have already taken steps to ascertain facts, quanti- 
tative and qualitative, about the diets of their people; and we hope 
that this will be done elsewhere. 

13. A further aspect of the work of National Committees on 
which we would lay particular stress is the interpretation of the 
general rules of rational nutrition in the light of national conditions. 
These general rules are necessarily in terms of calories, proteins, 
vitamins, minerals, etc. It is an important function of the National 
Committees to translate these into terms of specific foods, having 
due regard to the alternative sources from which the different 



— 37 — 

nutrients can be obtained, the consumption habits of the people, the 
character of national and local production, the prices of the various 
foods, etc. 

14. Further, the question of the relationship between food prices 
and incomes, with which we have been able to deal only in very 
general terms, is clearly one which requires detailed examination in 
each country, with a view to ascertaining the point at which an 
equilibrium can be struck between the interests of the consumer, 
those of the domestic producer and the social and economic structure 
of the State. These few examples of the type of work which, in 
our opinion, can be appropriately carried out by National Nutrition 
Committees will serve to show how useful and extensive can be 
their activity. 

15. We are convinced of the utility and importance of National 
Nutrition Committees for still another reason. Since our original 
recommendation in February 1936, such Committees have been 
established in a considerable number of countries. The representa- 
tives of some of these Committees, as well as of some which had 
been set up earlier, met at Geneva for an informal exchange of views 
and experiences in February 1937. We have had the advantage of 
hearing a detailed and interesting report on this meeting, and have 
been much impressed both by the amount and fruitfulness of the 
work being done to-day in different countries and by the value of 
the exchange of views which took place. We venture to recommend 
later in our report that the League should arrange at suitable 
intervals for further meetings of representatives of appropriate 
groups of National Committees in the future. 

16. While stressing as strongly as we do the importance of 
National Nutrition Committees, we are fully conscious of the 
fact — indeed, we consider it fundamental — that the ultimate 
responsibility for the nutrition and health policy of a nation must rest 
with that nation's Government. National Committees, aided where 
necessary by outside advice, can, however, exercise an important 
influence on policy, both directly through their influence on 
Governments and indirectly through their influence on public 
opinion. For the latter important influence to be operative, it is 
essential that publicity should be given to their reports and findings 
and that they should be able to initiate investigations, etc. 



-38- 

17- We have no desire to lay down a doctrine on the constitution 
and functions of National Committees; these must vary with differ- 
ences in the administrative practice and traditions of each country. 
We urge, however, that the Committees be so constituted as to 
give them a maximum of influence. To this end, it may be suggested 
that they should be consulted on matters of economic, social 
and educational policy affecting food consumption, and that 
they should publish periodic reports on the state of nutrition 
and the aspects of nutrition policy to which they attach importance. 

Education. 

i8. We have shown in Part III of our report ^ that food- 
consumption levels depend primarily upon two factors — the 
amount of real income at the disposal of the family or individual, 
and the intelligent use of that income to meet food requirements. 

19. Where income is adequate, the problem is one of education; 
but where resources fall below the limits of reasonable living 
standards, adequate nutrition cannot be secured even by the most 
scientific expenditure of those resources. Especially in the present 
decade, when in Western industrial countries alone millions of idle 
workers and their dependants are added to the population which, 
because of social, physical or mental handicap, is more or less 
permanently dependent on social assistance, the limits of 
educational efforts must be clearly recognised. 

20. We have, however, shown ^ that there is some scope for 
improvement in the dietary habits of even the lower income 
groups through educational means. Surveys conducted in more 
than one country have revealed that, in families spending the 
same amount of money per head on food, some secure adequate 
diets while others do not. A feature of nutrition policy should 
therefore invariably be the dissemination of nutritional information 
among public authorities, voluntary services administering social 
aid, school-teachers and others in a position to influence food 
habits. The first step must be to educate those responsible for 
education and the administration of social aid. 



^ See Part III, Chapters 5 and 6. 
- See Part III, Chapter 6. 



— 39 — 

21. The information thus disseminated should set forth the 
minimum nutritional needs of different age-groups and should 
include instruction on alternative sources of the nutritive elements. 
Efforts should particularly be directed towards impressing upon 
public assistance authorities the ultimate costliness in ill-health 
and bad physique of inadequate food allowances. 

22. It is further of importance to emphasise the relation of 
adequate shelter and clothing, fresh air, sunshine, exercise and 
living conditions generally to the measures of nutrition policy 
taken to develop the general health of the people. But proper feed- 
ing, especially in early life, remains the first objective. We would 
lay particular stress on the desirability of close co-operation among 
the agencies interested in nutrition, in health generally, and in the 
administration of social aid. 

23. Through whatever agency it may be disseminated, all 
nutritional information must be adapted to the habits and resources, 
not only of each country, but also of the particular groups by 
whom it is to be utilised in the individual home. The problems 
of rural populations are widely different from those of industrial 
workers. Education, if it is to be useful, must be practical, and 
it must cover all classes of the population — rural and urban, 
wage-earners and salaried classes. It should include information 
on alternative diets in terms of actual foods, on the preparation 
of diversified menus within limited income ranges. It should be 
devoted to arousing that interest in child and family welfare 
which, so far as incomes permit, will assure nutritionally adequate 
food consumption within such homes. 

24. Moreover, arrangements should be made to inform all 
those working in the same field of successful local experiments 
for supplementing diet. We have in mind, for example, the 
distribution of certain foods at reduced prices to low-income 
groups, the organisation of garden allotments and the produtcion 
or manufacture of foods on co-operative lines. 

Income Level and Distribution. 

25. Capacity to purchase the foodstuffs needed for adequate 
nutrition is determined by the size of real income in relation to 



— 40 — ■ 

the needs of the persons dependent on that income. As we have 
shown in the body of our report, ^ and as the study ^ of the Inter- 
national Labour Office has pointed out, what is significant in this 
connection is not merely the average level of incomes, but also 
their distribution. Although, for example, the average level of 
individual incomes in industrialised countries is relatively high, 
large sections of the population are so poor, owing to the inequality 
of the distribution of the national income, that they are unable 
to purchase the requirements of a proper diet. Studies of food 
consumption at different income levels prove that malnutrition is 
most prevalent amongst those groups of the population, urban or 
rural, whose incomes per head are lowest. 

26. The lower incomes may rise as a result of their recipients 
either sharing proportionately in a general increase in the national 
income or obtaining a greater share in existing or increased totals. 
Although it is unnecessary to stress the desirability of adding to 
the total sum of goods and services available for consumption, it 
is worth recalling that the problem is not solely one of distribution. 
But at any given moment the possibility of rapid progress by the 
method of increasing the total resources available is necessarily 
limited. Measures designed to protect or increase the share at 
the disposal of the lower-income groups have therefore been 
adopted in many countries. 

27. It is not our intention to examine in any detail the methods 
which may be adopted to raise the level of incomes in such lower- 
income groups; but reference may be made to certain general 
principles that have been widely followed in seeking a solution to 
this problem. Since incomes in these groups consist in the main 
of earnings from employment, efforts have been made to safeguard 
these earnings to the fullest extent. Machinery for the fixing of 
minimum wages and legislation providing for the fuU and regular 
payment of the wages fixed or agreed on have, where adopted, 
performed an important function in securing to wage-earners an 
adequate living. For those whose incomes from employment are 
interrupted, whether as a result of iUness or accident, or in con- 
sequence of involuntary unemployment, systems of social insurance 



^ See Part III, Chapter 5. 

2 " Workers' Nutrition and Social Policy ", pages 114 ^. 



— 41 — 

have been adopted in many countries. Family allowances or 
other supplementary measures have improved the position of 
large families which, as we have shown/ are in particular danger 
of malnutrition. Where such systems are lacking or have proved 
inadequate, Governments have in recent years afforded direct 
relief in various forms, especially to the unemployed. Were it 
not for such measures, the nutritional state of large sections of 
the populations of industrial States would be even more seriously 
defective than it is to-day. We desire therefore to emphasise the 
great importance of the extension of such social legislation for 
the protection and improvement of the health of the people. 

Social Provision. 

28. But the problem of malnutrition is urgent. Each genera- 
tion begets its successor and passes on its heritage of disease and 
structural malformation. Sufficient security against the risks of 
malnutrition is not achieved in any country. For this reason, 
many Governments — and, indeed, precisely those Governments 
which have done most to promote social legislation — have adopted 
measures of direct assistance in order to supplement the diets of 
the more exposed sections of the community. 

29. Such measures have been very properly directed especially 
to preventing malnutrition in childhood. The damage done by 
faulty feeding in the pre-natal period, in childhood and in ado- 
lescence cannot be repaired later in Hfe. In our interim report, 
we stated that the health of the child was the kernel of the problem; 
we reiterate and emphasise this view. 

30. We strongly urge, therefore, that the efforts already being 
made to improve nutrition by public and private health and welfare 
authorities in maternity and child-welfare centres, in schools and 
elsewhere should be encouraged and strengthened by all possible 
means. 

31. Of special importance is the adequate consumption of milk 
by infants, children, adolescents and expectant and nursing mothers. 
At several points of our report we have referred to the high nutritive 



See Part III, Chapter 5 . 



— 42 — , 

properties of this food. Its value is unique; it is indispensable; 
more than any other food it contains the elements essential for 
life and growth. It has no satisfactory substitute and it is in itself 
the nearest approach we possess to a complete food. In our 
opinion, one of the most important immediate practical steps that 
can be taken, and has in certain cases already been taken, by 
Governments to raise the standard of health of the growing genera- 
tion is to arrange for the free or cheap distribution of safe milk 
to children of school and pre-school age. The danger of malnu- 
trition exists for children of most income-groups. We have shown ^ 
that, where there are many children in the family, the milk con- 
sumption per head tends to be low, even when the family income, 
and income per head, is relatively high. These facts should be 
borne in mind when schemes for the social provision of milk for 
school-children, or for initiating an educational campaign, are under 
consideration. 

32. We refer below to the important part which school meals 
play in nutrition in childhood. Here we wish to point out that 
schemes of social provision have been directed, not only to ensuring 
that the nutritional requirements of children should be more 
adequately covered, but have, in certain cases, also taken account 
of the regular need for the addition of protective or other foods 
to the diet of certain particularly exposed sections of the adult 
community. In addition to such permanent provision, we would 
draw attention to the measures adopted in certain countries for 
the distribution to necessitous famihes of surplus supplies of food 
products. a 

School Meals. 

33. We have already, in our interim report, referred to the 
importance of adequate nutrition during the school years as well 
as in early childhood. We pointed out that, while compulsory 
education had been generally adopted throughout the civihsed 
world, large numbers of school-children were not mentally or 
physically capable of profiting by it. We therefore put the 
question whether, as a corollary to the provision of educational 



1 See Part III, Chapter 5. 



— 43 — 

facilities, steps should not also be taken to ensure that the nutri- 
tional needs of such children were fully satisfied, so that they would 
be more physically and mentally fitted to benefit from the oppor- 
tunities afforded them. 

34. Conditions affecting the nutrition of school-children differ 
so widely from one part of the world to another that it is not 
possible to make detailed recommendations of general application. 
We wish, however, to draw special attention to the fact that in 
several countries the diet of school-children is being supplemented 
by the regular provision of free or cheap meals at schools. The 
" Oslo breakfast " ^ is a well-known example : this meal consists 
of uncooked protective foods and is served to the children before 
the day's work. The cost of this form of supplementary feeding 
for children is relatively low, and the results appear to be very 
satisfactory. We are of opinion that, in countries and communities 
where action by the central or local authorities appears to be called 
for, careful consideration should be given to this method of 
improving the nutrition of school-children. Wherever meals are 
provided for children at school, we wish to emphasise the import- 
ance of their being prepared in accordance with the most recent 
teachings of nutritional science. 

35. Our attention has been drawn to the fact that, even in 
certain countries where most progress has been made in spreading 
knowledge of the correct principles of nutrition, the meals regularly 
provided to children attending private boarding-school are some- 
times seriously defective: in some instances, milk and fresh fruit 
are not included (or only in quite inadequate amounts) as part of 
the ordinary dietary, but are treated as " extras " for which 
supplementary payment is required. 

We beheve that, in boarding-schools and similar institutions, the 
findings of modern science should be used in determining the diets 
and, that where this has not already been done, careful enquiry 
should be made into the adequacy of the diet at present given in 
such institutions. 



1 This consists of milk, bread or biscuits, butter and raw fruit or vegetables. 
It has the important advantage of requiring no cooking or preparation at the 
school. 



— 44 — 

Dietary Policies in Public and Private Provision of Food Needs. 

36. Every modern State is directly responsible for the feeding 
of large numbers of people, whether in schools, in hospitals, in 
charitable and benevolent institutions, in relief centres, or in various 
State services, such as the army and navy. Moreover, there is a 
growing tendency for private industries to develop canteens and 
restaurants where the workers take or supplement their midday 
meal. We hope that, where public and private authorities are 
responsible for the provision of meals, they wiU ensure that diets 
adequate in all nutrient constituents are provided. 



37. We have up to this point concentrated our attention 
on the consumption side of the nutrition question. We must 
now turn to production and distribution. Questions of food 
supply and price are important from two points of view: first, 
from the point of view of the producer of food, whose standard 
of living is largely dependent on the prices he obtains; and, 
second, from the point of view of the purchaser of food, whose 
purchasing power is dependent on the ratio of food (and other) 
prices to money income. It is convenient to consider these two 
aspects of the problem jointly in the next section. 



C. The Adaptation of Agriculture. 

38. Improved nutrition must immediately or in a short lapse 
of time prove of general benefit to agriculture and fishing. Better 
nutrition means an increase in the demand for foodstuffs; and an 
increase in the demand for foodstuffs imphes greater agricultural 
activity. Certain adjustments in agricultural production will no 
doubt be required; adjustments are always required whenever 
social progress occurs. It would, however, be a mistake to exagge- 
rate the magnitude of these adjustments. The change in dietary 
habits to which we look forward will be steady and gradual : it will 
not occur in a day. Moreover, the majority of the protective food- 
stuffs (milk, vegetables, etc.) are of a perishable character, so 



— 45 — 

that they must necessarily be produced not far from their place 
of consumption. As these foods come to play a more prominent 
part in national diets, therefore, their production will offer a natural 
stimulus and protection to domestic agriculture. But the energy- 
bearing foods still remain, and will remain, the basis of the diet: 
they play an essential role in human nutrition. We have dealt in 
this report only with European and certain other countries of 
Western civilisation. If the inadequacy of the diet of the lower- 
income groups in these countries, even as regards energy-bearing 
foods, be considered, it is clear that an improvement in the nutrition 
of these classes should benefit the arable farmer ; if the world prob- 
lem of nutrition be viewed as a whole, the enormous scope for 
increase in the consumption and production of cereals and certain 
other foodstuffs valued chiefly for their energy-yielding qualities 
becomes at once apparent. 

While national agricultural systems will thus benefit by the 
growth in the demand particularly for the more perishable protec- 
tive foods, countries producing for export will benefit, as the 
primary needs of the poorer classes for energy-producing and less 
perishable protective foods are more adequately satisfied. 

39. We have argued ^ that agriculture has adapted itself 
successfully — albeit not without some difficulty — during the past 
twenty-five years to changes in the structure of demand, in parti- 
cular where increased demand has expressed itself in higher prices. 
The adaptation required in the future will not involve a rapid 
transformation of the whole structure of agricultural systems, 
but merely the gradual change in and expansion of production to 
meet the new requirements. Policy must be directed towards 
helping the orderly expansion of agriculture and its adaptation 
to the changing demand. 

40. All adaptation and expansion, whether in industry and 
commerce or in agriculture, requires capital; but in most countries 
industry and commerce have far readier access to capital to assist 
them in their adjustments than has agriculture. In considering the 
agricultural aspects of the nutrition problem, we desire, therefore, 



1 See Part III, Chapter 2. 



-46- 

to emphasise at the outset the need for an improvement in agricul- 
tural credit. We have not been able to make an exhaustive study 
of the questions of agricultural assurance and credit. The question 
of long-term agricultural credit is one which the Financial Organi- 
sation of the League has already considered, and to which the 
Financial Committee has reverted in its last report. Furthermore, 
the International Institute of Agriculture has concerned itself in 
the past, and will, we understand, concern itself still further in the 
future, with the problem of agricultural indebtedness, insurance 
and credit, especially medium- and short-term credit. We hope 
that the appropriate national authorities will, in framing their 
general nutrition policy, give weight to the necessity for developing 
agricultural credit institutions in countries where adequate 
machinery does not already exist. 

41. We also attach great importance to the encouragement and 
development of agricultural co-operation. The services which 
co-operation has rendered to producers and consumers alike are 
well known. Adjustments which are difficult for an individual 
producer may be facilitated by the joint action of many producers. 
Improvements in methods, the joint use of machinery, access to 
scientific knowledge, information regarding market conditions, 
the rational organisation of marketing — these are only a few 
of the benefits which have been derived from agricultural co- 
operative societies. These organisations should be strengthened 
and developed in countries where they already exist and established 
in countries where they do not exist. 

42. The State and agricultural organisations can help the 
adaptation of agriculture through the education of farmers. We 
have in mind not only the spread of knowledge about agricultural 
methods and processes — an important element to which we refer 
below — but also the dissemination of information regarding the 
general trends in the demand for foods which are likely to result 
from better nutrition. By educating agriculturists to the import- 
ance of increasing, where possible, their output of protective 
foods, the State can contribute at once to an improvement in 
agriculture itself (through, for example, the enriching effect of. 
animal husbandry on the soil) and to an improvement in nutrition 
We are also convinced of the necessity for teaching farmers, so 



— 47 — 

far as soil and climate allow, to grow more of the protective foods 
for their own use. 

43. The adaptation of agriculture to changed requirements 
can, however, be impeded as well as facilitated by State action. 
Thus tariffs and other forms of trade restriction may, if excessive, 
so affect prices as to draw farmers into the production of foods 
for which demand is shrinking and consequently prevent them 
from expanding their production of foods the consumption of 
which it would be desirable to increase. Subsidies to consumption, 
on the other hand, may provide equally valuable assistance to 
agriculture and at the same time serve to promote, rather than 
impede, the necessary adjustments. Protection to the farmer can 
often be given most effectively, and without prejudice to nutri- 
tional standards, by improving methods of agricultural production 
and distribution — by keeping the farmer currently informed of 
the latest discoveries of science and of market developments, by 
combating animal disease, by facilitating the purchase of better 
seed, by watching over fodder and fertiliser prices, by improving 
transport facilities, by strengthening the agricultural credit system, 
and by stimulating national consumption. Improvements in 
agricultural methods result in high yields per acre, while measures 
of artificial stimulation frequently bring under cultivation inferior 
land and may result in lower yields. 

44. An effective method by which Governments or private 
bodies may encourage improved efficiency in agriculture is through 
the development of schemes for recording output. The value of 
such schemes may be enhanced by combining them with local or 
national competitions, which serve to arouse the interest of indivi- 
dual farmers and result in a rapid spread of information regarding 
new and successful technical methods and in their early and 
general application. 

45. In view of the importance attached by nutritional experts 
to an increased consumption of fish and fish-liver oils, the develop- 
ment and preservation of sea fisheries by national and international 
action would constitute a valuable contribution to nutrition policy. 

46. The orientation which should be given to commercial 
policy in the light of nutritional requirements is a very complex 
problem. Many interests are involved, and the most careful analysis 



-48- 

and study are required before action can be taken. We have 
tried to throw some light on the problem in our remarks on the 
elasticity of demand.^ It should be clearly understood that the 
demand for protective foods cannot be greatly increased if the 
price of the energy-bearing foods is high in relation to incomes. 
Indeed, the demand for high-quality protective foods may, in 
such circumstances, be considerably increased by reducing the 
prices of the energy-producing foods. This problem requires 
most careful study in each country, for the solution which is 
correct in, for instance, a rich country or one where natural con- 
ditions favour diversified farming may well be wrong for a poor 
country or where natural conditions are unfavourable. 

47. If steps are taken to facilitate changes in agricultural 
production, European as well as non-European agriculture will 
derive great benefit from the movement towards better nutrition. 
Not the least of these benefits will be the improvement in the 
nutrition of the agriculturist himself. We have reported ^ on the 
paradoxical fact that the producer of food in Europe is not seldom 
badly nourished. In certain countries, this must be ascribed in 
part to the fact that he has been encouraged to concentrate his 
productive resources on one or two crops. Now, better nutrition 
always means more diversified nutrition. This diversification of 
demand implies a reciprocal diversification of agriculture, especially 
more dairy and fruit farming and more vegetable-growing. Under 
the technical conditions of cultivation which prevail in Europe, 
diversification is likely in many cases, though not of course always, 
to affect the individual farm as well as national agricultural 
systems. In short, as the movement towards better nutrition 
spreads and grows, individual agriculturists will be encouraged to 
produce more of the valuable foods mentioned above, and their 
own state of nutrition will in consequence rise. In this connection, 
we may repeat that we attach special importance to the education 
of the small farmer to the nutritive value of dairy produce, veget- 
ables and fruits, so that, whilst directing his chief efforts to 
production for sale, he wiU at the same time realise the importance 



^ See Part III, Chapter 3. 
2 See Part III, Chapter 7. 



— 49 — 

of providing, where conditions allow, foods of high nutritive value 
for consumption in his own household. 

Food Supplies and Food Prices. 

48. Farmers and consumers alike frequently complain of the 
wide discrepancy between the selling price of foodstuffs at the 
farm and their price at retail. This margin is composed of trans- 
port and distribution costs and taxes. It is clearly not possible 
for us to form an opinion concerning the justification of the com- 
plaints to which we have referred; but we would draw attention 
to the fact that certain authorities have been able to reduce the 
margin of cost as a result of the careful scrutiny of its component 
parts and the adoption of appropriate measures whenever the cost 
of transport and distribution proved excessive. ^ 

49. In view of the perishable nature of many protective 
foodstuffs, special attention has been paid in certain countries 
• — rightly, in our opinion — to improving refrigeration and storage 
facilities and to the organisation of quick and adequate transport 
at low rates. 

50. At the retail stage of distribution, the problem of margins 
is particularly complicated and difficult to analyse. In many 
countries, special committees have from time to time been set up 
to investigate it ; but their findings have more often than not been 
inconclusive. It is, indeed, difficult to assess the cost or value of 
the services with which some retailers of food provide their 
customers — cleanliness, variety, attractiveness of presentation, 
credit, delivery. There are grounds for believing, however, that 
the volume of turnover might be increased in certain areas, were 
the retail margin per unit reduced, without any loss of profit to 
the retailer. 

51. In many countries, the consumers' co-operative movement 
has resulted in an appreciable reduction in margins, both to its 
own customers and — through its competition — to those of private 
retail establishments. Elsewhere non-credit shops, where the 



' See Part III, Chapters 2 and 4. 



— 50 — 

consumer does not pay for delivery which he does not require, 
nor for bad debts incurred by retailers on sales to their customers, 
have resulted in lower prices. In most countries on the Continent 
of Europe, special markets, where the grower of fruit or vegetables 
keeps his own stall, help to eliminate or reduce both overhead 
costs and excessive middlemen's profits. 

52. A major factor affecting the prices of foodstuffs to the 
consumer in some industrial States is constituted by taxes on 
imports. Such taxes are imposed in most countries mainly to 
protect agriculture — revenue taxes with their corresponding excise 
being generally limited in number. It is for each Government to 
weigh for itself the claims of agriculture for protection and of the 
consumer for cheap food. It is not sufficient that the food supplied 
should be normally plentiful; its supply must also be assured. 
The problem of agricultural commercial policy is thus one of 
considerable complexity . 

53. We have given in the body of our report ^ examples of 
comparatives prices of certain foodstuffs in different countries. 
After all allowance is made for differences in local qualities, no one 
can study these tables without being struck by the very wide 
discrepancy in prices that exists to-day even between neighbouring 
States. Governments of all countries with disproportionately high 
prices of any valuable food should, we suggest, consider very 
carefully whether there are imperative reasons for depriving large 
sections of the community, whether they be wage-earners or others 
with relatively low incomes, of the advantages of cheap food which 
are enjoyed by other countries. 

54. While each country must decide on its own commercial 
policy, there is one principle the universal acceptance of which 
we would urge — namely, that adequate nutrition be one of the 
factors determining such policy. The advice of nutrition and 
social-economic experts should, in our opinion, be sought whenever 
a question of agricultural or commercial policy arises. The National 
Nutrition Committees which we have recommended would appear 
to provide a useful channel through which this advice might be 
obtained. 



See Part III, Chapter 4. 



— 51 — 

D. Future Work of the League of Nations in Nutrition. 

55. During the months which have elapsed since the Assembly 
of the League of Nations decided, in September 1935, to appoint 
a Committee to submit a general report " on the whole question 
of nutrition, in its health and economic aspects ", there have been 
a remarkable growth of public interest in nutrition and a greatly 
increased realisation of its importance. 

56. The problem of nutrition is, indeed, eminently suitable for 
international collaboration and consultation. As, however, con- 
ditions vary so radically in different parts of the world, collabora- 
tion might well at the present stage take place within continental 
or regional groups, where the problems are similar. For this 
reason, we are pleased to be able to state that the Health Organi- 
sation of the League of Nations has convened for August 1937 
an Inter-Governmental Conference on Rural Hygiene in Far- 
Eastern Countries at which a special commission on nutrition, 
including some of the foremost experts of Asiatic countries, will 
be constituted. We are also glad to note that the seventeenth 
Assembly of the League of Nations decided on the convocation of 
an Inter-Governmental Conference on Rural Hygiene in Latin- 
American Countries, at which, we understand, nutrition questions 
will be discussed. 

57. In addition to preparing these consultations, the Health 
Organisation will, as we have observed in the introductory chapter, 
continue its useful work of acting as an international clearing-house 
of information on nutritional questions. Moreover, having already 
laid down an agreed international scale of the calorie requirements 
of the two sexes at different ages of life, it is now proceeding to 
consultations with a view to setting up international standards 
of requirements of vitamins, minerals and other nutrients. It 
will also conduct and stimulate research along other important 
lines. 

58. We have been informed also that, in accordance with the 
wish expressed by the Fifth Committee of the seveenteenth 
Assembly, the League of Nations Advisory Committee on Social 
Questions plans, in collaboration with other competent bodies, to 



— 52 — 

pay special attention to the social aspects of malnutrition among 
children (whether or not cared for in their own families) in both 
urban and rural areas. We welcome this further evidence that 
the League will continue and extend its activity in this field. 

59. At our first meeting, we recommended the creation of 
National Nutrition Committees to originate and co-ordinate policy 
in this field. As a result, committees have been set up in several 
countries and we have been informed that they are in process of 
being established in others. A first meeting of the representatives 
of some of these committees was held under the auspices of the 
League of Nations early this year. As we have already stated, 
the exchange of views which took place was particularly fruitful. 
Those participating acquired information regarding the methods 
of nutritional investigation and education used in other countries 
which, in their opinion, will prove to be of great service to them in 
dealing with their own national problems. It therefore appears to 
us desirable that periodic meetings should be held, under the 
auspices of the League of Nations, of the representatives of the 
committees of countries whose nutrition problems are broadly 
similar in character. 

60. We have already referred ^ to the contribution which 
the competent international organisations can make and are 
making to the study of various aspects of the nutrition problem; 
there is, in our view, scope for further fruitful collaboration between 
these organisations and the National Nutrition Committees. We 
desire here to draw attention to a few additional possibilities of 
effective collaboration. The first relates to the methods used in 
ascertaining the food-consumption habits of the various populations ; 
we attach great importance to the improvement of these methods 
and to the securing of a higher degree of international uniformity.^ 
The second relates to the collection of other data required by the 
National Nutrition Committees in order to develop a national nutri- 
tion policy. Such a policy must be based, not on generalities, but 
on specific foods, and must take account of the food-consumption 



1 See Chapter I, paragraphs 8, 10, 11, 19 to 24, 25, 26, 27, and also paragraphs 40, 
54, 55 and 56 above. 

^ See Chapter I, paragraph 18. 



— 53 — 

habits and economic resources of the various peoples; it 
requires abundant information regarding, not only existing food- 
consumption habits, but also the nutritive values of different foods, 
nutritional requirements and food prices. It is our view that 
the competent organs of the League of Nations, in collaboration 
with the International Labour Office and the International Institute 
of Agriculture, could make a valuable contribution to the task of the 
National Committees by informing them of the methods successfully 
employed in the collection and analysis of this information. Finally, 
we would express the hope that, if the National Nutrition 
Committees publish periodic surveys of nutrition policy in their 
respective countries, the competent organs of the League of 
Nations will, from time to time, incorporate the information 
contained in these reports and other pertinent material from the 
several countries in a review designed to show the progress of 
nutrition policy in the various parts of the world. 



In presenting this final report on the economic and agricultural 
aspects of the nutrition problem, we have discharged the duty 
laid upon us by the sixteenth and seventeenth Assemblies. 

We have not attempted to provide ready-made solutions for a 
problem which is infinitely complex. As a result of our studies and 
discussions, we have been able to submit certain general principles 
for the consideration of Governments. The facts that we have 
adduced in this, our final report, confirm and, we venture to believe, 
substantiate the recommendations we put forward in our interim 
report; these recommendations are annexed hereto. 

The malnutrition which exists in all countries is at once a 
challenge and an opportunity: a challenge to men's consciences 
and an opportunity to eradicate a social evil by methods which 
will increase economic prosperity. 



— 54 



RECOMMENDATIONS PUT FORWARD BY THE MIXED COMMITTEE 
ON THE PROBLEM OF NUTRITION IN ITS INTERIM REPORT. 

The Mixed Committee, while recognising the importance of the 
economic aspects of the nutrition problem, the fuller treatment of 
which it desires to reserve for a later report, submits to the Assembly 
the following preliminary recommendations, in the hope that, if 
they are approved by the Assembly and accepted by Governments, 
they will m.ake a real contribution to the improvement of nutri- 
tion. 

In order to promote endeavours to secure an adequate provision 
for all their people of necessary and, more especially, of protective 
foods, the Mixed Committee suggests to the Assembly to recommend 
that Governments should: 

(i) Encourage and support in every possible way the further 
scientific study of nutrition problems with a view to ascertaining 
the optimum nutrition for each country, due consideration being 
given to differences of national economic structure, of climate 
and of available sources of supply; 

(2) Take all appropriate measures to ensure that the latest 
information about nutrition is included in the teaching of medical 
students and that medical practitioners, medical officers of health, 
district nurses, etc., have such information constantly brought to 
their notice; 

(3) Conduct a vigorous policy of education on popular nutrition 
for the instruction of the general public in this subject; 

(4) Support the Health Organisation of the League of Nations, 
not only in the work of its technical committees, but also in its 
endeavours in the field of public health and preventive medicine 
to promote the application of modern nutritional science for the 
benefit of the different age and occupational groups of the 
population ; 

(5) Facilitate and promote international co-operation in edu- 
cation and propaganda and in the exchange of information, and, 
in particular, encourage all appropriate international organisations 
to lend their help ; 



— 55 — 

(6) Consider what steps should be taken, whether at the pub He 
charge or otherwise, to meet the nutritional needs of the lower- 
income sections of the community, and, in particular, the means 
by which they might ensure that adequate supply of food, especially 
safe milk, should be made available for expectant and nursing 
mothers, infants, children and adolescents; 

(7) Consider what further steps might be taken to meet the 
nutritional needs of adults, unemployed or otherwise in distress. 

(8) With a view to giving the fullest possible effect to national 
propaganda and educational efforts for the improvement of popular 
nutrition : 

Take all possible steps to make food supplies, and especially 
protective foods, so far as possible, available at prices within 
the reach of all classes of the community, while at the same 
time safeguarding the interests of the producers; 

Take steps to improve and cheapen the marketing and 
distribution of foodstuffs in both industrial and rural districts, 
and, with these objects in view: 

Encourage collaboration between co-operative and other 
forms of producers' and consiuners' organisations; 

(9) With a view to assuring purity of food and in the interest 
of public health, promote, so far as possible, the international 
unification of the technical analysis and control of foodstuffs, and 
of the control of preparations sold primarily for their vitamin 
content on the basis of the work being conducted on standardisation 
of biological products; 

(10) Set up standards of reference and specifications for grading 
foods of all kinds according to quality; 

(11) Consider whether any modification of their general eco- 
nomic and commercial policy is desirable in order to ensure adequate 
supplies of foodstuffs, and, in particular, to assist the reorientation 
of agricultural production necessary to satisfy the requirements of 
sound nutrition; 

(12) Co-ordinate the work done by different authorities which 
affects the nutrition of the people and, in the absence of a central 



-56- 

authority, set up a special body for this purpose, in order to secure 
unity of pohcy and direction; 

(13) In order, inter alia, to ascertain how far existing national 
dietaries fall short of the new standards of nutrition, collect infor- 
mation on food consumption by families of different occupational 
groups at different income levels as well as on the distribution of 
the population by family income; 

(14) Consider to what extent and by what means their national 
statistics of the supply and consumption of individual foods might 
be improved; 

(15) Assist the International Institute of Agriculture in collecting 
information regarding supply, national consumption and prices of 
foodstuffs. 



Furthermore, the Mixed Committee invites the Assembly to 
recommend the Governments concerned to give their full support 
to the Health Organisation in its enquiries into the widespread 
malnutrition which exists in the tropics and certain Far-Eastern 
countries. 



PART II. 



Nutrition and Health. 



NUTRITION AND HEALTH. 



I. Introduction. 

The progress made in medical science and hygiene in the 
second half of the nineteenth century led Governments to 
the realisation that great possibilities of improvement in national 
health were within the reach of mankind. The knowledge 
of the infective nature of many maladies indicated ways of 
stamping out epidemic disease. Means were discovered 
of making the human environment more healthy and of fortifying 
the body by physical training, which became increasingly 
popular. It was confidently hoped that the ancient ideal 
of mens sana in corpore sano would become the heritage of all 
human beings if the work thus begun was pursued further 
with devotion and enthusiasm. 

But this very work has revealed the extent of the ills which 
it has to cure. In spite of the application of the knowledge 
of medicine and hygiene, the physical condition of a large 
part of the human race is still far below the accepted 
standard, and the more recent advances in medical science have 
established the fact that this inferiority is largely due to imper- 
fect nutrition. 

In the great war, nations which were obliged to enroll large 
numbers of very young soldiers were appalled at the poor quality 
of the recruits that were presented for service. Medical inspection 
of schools revealed then and still reveals a large number of 
sickly children below the normal standard of development for 
their age. The considerable decline in infant mortality in some 
countries only renders more impressive the persistence of high 



— 6o — 

infant mortality in others. Certain epidemics display a 
destructive power that seems due, not solely to the virulence of 
the infective agent, but also to a lack of resistance in the 
population attacked. 

At the same time, the discoveries of the last thirty years 
leading to the " newer knowledge of nutrition " show with 
ever-increasing certainty that inadequate nutrition plays an 
important part in infant mortality and can account for the 
excessive proportion of under-developed school-children and 
adolescents and the poor health and small output of a large 
number of workers. Deficiencies in diet and diseases of nutritional 
origin can be observed, not only among urban populations, 
but also among dwellers in country districts, and not only 
in poor or primitive countries, but also in the rich nations with 
an old and highly developed civilisation. 

Interest having thus been awakened as to the importance 
of correct nutrition for the public health, investigation of 
the existing conditions has spread to every quarter of the 
globe, the results of which have created the suspicion that a 
large part of humanity may be ill-fed or underfed. 

2. The Principles of Correct Nutrition. 

The diet must supply the necessary substances for the growth 
and repair of the organism and energy for the production of 
animal heat and muscular work. The organism being in 
some respects comparable to a heat-machine which converts 
fuel into calories, its energy requirements may be estimated 
in calories. The fuel or energy needs of the body are supplied by 
the fats, carbohydrates and proteins of the diet, the proteins 
having the additional function of building new tissue for the 
growing animal and of repairing tissue wastage in the adult. For 
these purposes, the proteins contained in animal foods are of 
better quality than those contained in foods of plant origin, the 
proteins of milk, eggs and glandular animal tissues (liver, 
kidney) being specially valuable. Foodstuffs rich in animal 
protein have sometimes been called body-building foods. The 
diet should contain a certain proportion of foods providing 
" good " protein, and it is usually held that about 50% of the 
protein in a diet should be of animal origin. 



— 6i — 

Recent nutritional research has stressed the great importance 
of other essential food elements, vitamins and minerals, which are 
also indispensable, though required in relatively small quantities. 

Vitamins. 

The vitamins, of which about ten have been differentiated, 
have been called food hormones, ^ the conception being that, 
in the economy of the body, they direct the correct utilisation 
of the other dietary elements. A long list of diseases, including 
rickets, osteomalacia, ^ beri-beri, pellagra, dental caries, 
scurvy, ophthalmia, are now known to be of nutritional 
origin and to be caused partly or wholly by deficiency of one 
or more of the vitamins. The vitamins have been extensively 
studied in the last twenty years, some have been isolated in 
the pure state, while, of the nature and function of others, 
knowledge is still very imperfect. The principal vitamins, all 
of which are necessary to promote growth and maintain health, 
have been classified as follows : 

Vitamin A (fat-soluble). — Deficiency of vitamin A is 
manifested by impairment of vision, which, in a severe form, 
results in night blindness, and not infrequently in corneal 
ulcer, leading to blindness. Populations receiving inadequate 
vitamin A have a high incidence of kidney stones, bronchitis 
and other lung diseases, and impairment of function of the 
intestinal tract. 

Vitamin B Complex (water-soluble) . — Two components of 
this complex have been isolated from natural foods, and 
chemical studies have resulted in their synthesis. These are 
vitamin Bi and lactofiavin. 

Vitamin Bi deficiency is the cause of beri-beri, which, 
among rice-eating peoples, constitutes a major health problem. 
The primary injury is to the nervous system. This vitamin 
is now being synthesised in a number of countries. It is 
noteworthy that physicians are reporting favourable response 
by many patients who suffer from poor appetite and neuritis 
following administration of this vitamin. This suggests that 



* From a Greek word meaning "messenger". Hormones are thus chemical messengers. 
2 Osteomalacia is a disease in which the bones of adults become largely composed of osteoid tissue 
which contains very Httle calcium and is therefore soft. Great deformity of these bones may result. 



— 62 — 

even in a country with ample food resources, faulty selection 
of food may result in this specific form of malnutrition. 
There is strong evidence that human dietaries in many 
parts of the world are more or less deficient in vitamin Bj, 
although beri-beri is absent. 

Lactofiavin is the greenish-yellow pigment in whey, and 
was first prepared in pure form from whey. It occurs in 
liver, kidney, yeast and in many yellow vegetable products. 
It has been synthesised in the laboratory. Lactofiavin is 
the chemical name for vitamin Bg. It is an indispensible 
nutrient since animals deprived of it sicken and die. The 
study of the effects of a deficiency of this substance has 
not progressed far enough to reveal much information 
concerning the nature of the physiological damage which 
occurs through its privation. 

The remaining components of the B complex at present 
unidentified are concerned with the prevention of pellagra, 
and possibly sprue ^ and acrodynia, ^ and certain forms of 
anaemia. 

Vitamin C (water-soluble). — This is necessary for 
prevention of scurvy. Although scurvy is now relatively rare, it 
is evident that sub-clinical scurvy is relatively common. The 
health of the blood vessels is greatly dependent upon an 
adequate supply of vitamin C, as are also the structures in the 
pulp cavity of the living tooth. It is shown that animals which 
have been somewhat depleted of their reserves of vitamin C, 
but not sufficiently to induce scurvy, are much more sensitive 
to injury by bacterial poisons produced during infections, 
than are animals whose body store of the vitamin is ample. 
Doses of bacterial poisons which are tolerated with impunity 
by animals with adequate reserves of vitamin C, cause injury 
to the arteries of animals with no reserves of this substance. 
Increased susceptibility to certain infections is also caused 
by depletion of the store of the vitamin in the tissues. It is 
used up much more rapidly during fever, as in tuberculosis, 
than under normal conditions of health. Every year, new 



1 Sprue is a disease associated with gastro-intestinal disorder, and is generally accompanied by anaemia. 

2 Acrodynia is a disease characterised by pricking pains and other disturbances of secretion in the palm a 
of the hands and soles of the feet, associated with reddening of the skin. 



- 63 - 

evidence comes to light showing the importance of taking 
daily an adequate amount of vitamin C as a measure for 
safeguarding the health. 

Vitamin D (fat-soluble). — This is required for correct 
utilisation of calcium salts and phosphates in the nutrition of 
the growing and adult skeleton, for prevention of rickets, osteo- 
malacia^ and dental disease. Vitamin D can be taken in the 
food (in egg-yolk or fish or liver oils) and is also synthesised in 
the skin by the action of certain of the sun's rays which, in 
temperate regions, are present only in summer, but are 
abundant and powerful in their action in tropical and 
Southern-European countries. 

The nutritional diseases mentioned above are, except in 
the case of rickets, the outcome of long-continued severe 
deprivation of the vitamins in question. It is perhaps even 
more important to emphasise, however, that a less severe 
deprivation in time or extent or a partially inadequate intake 
of these essentials may involve ill-defined and disabling 
departures from health of which the causes may remain 
undiagnosed. 

Minerals. 

Recent researches have revealed the great importance of an 
adequate amount, and a correct balance, of essential minerals 
in the diet. Of these, calcium, phosphorus, iron and iodine 
have a special interest. Since a large proportion of the human 
body is composed of calcium phosphate, forming the skeleton 
and teeth, the need for ample supplies of calcium and phosphorus 
is self-evident. A smaller but necessary supply of iron is required 
for nutrition of blood elements and prevention of anaemia, and 
a minute provision of iodine is also necessary for the prevention 
of simple goitre or increase in size of the thyroid gland. 

3. " Energy-bearing " and " Protective " Foods. 

A useful division of foods into two classes has been made 
— (i) the protective foods, those chiefly valuable for providing 
minerals, vitamins and " good " protein, and (2) the non- 



» See footnote, page 6i. 



- 64 



Nutritive Value of Foods. 



Food 


" Good " 
protein 


Minerals 


Vitamins 
A B C D 


Milk 

Cheese 

EEggs 

E Liver 


+ + 
+ + 
+ + 
+ + 


+ + + 
+ + 
+ + 
+ + 


+ + +0 +0 1 

+ + — — 
+ ++ — ++ 
+ ++ — + 


E Fat fish (herrings, 
etc.) 


+ 




+ + — + + 

+ + ++ — 
+ * + ++ — 


Green vegetables, 
salads 

Raw fruit, fruit 
juices 


+ 


+ + + 
+ + + 


E Butter 

Cod-liver oil ... . 






+ _ _ +0 

+ + + — — + + +/ 


Yeast 

Meat (muscle) . . . 
Root vegetables, tubers 


+ 

+ 


+ 


- + ± - 

+ * + + — \ 


Legumes (dry peas, 

lentils) 

E Cereals, bread (whole- 
meal) 

E Cereals, bread (white) 
E Cereals, rice (polished) 
E Nuts 


+ 


± 


— + '— — 

.L + - - 


E Sugar, jam, honey. . 

E Margarine, olive oil 
and other vegetable 
oils 










Highly 

protective 

foods 



Less 

protective 

foods 



Non- 
protective 
foods 



E = foods of high energy or caloric value. 
-|- -I- -I- signifies very rich. 
-f- + signifies rich. 
-|- signifies present. 
_J_ signifies present in small amount or traces. 
— signifies absent. 

signifies in summer, when the cows are on pasture. 
* signifies if yellow in colour. 



- 65 - 

protective foods, chiefly valuable as energy-providers. Lack of 
calories causes starvation, lack of protective foods causes various 
" deficiency " diseases which may develop in spite of an abundant 
calorie intake. 

The table given opposite contains a rough classification of some 
of the commoner types of foods into these two classes and shows 
their relative value as vehicles of energy, good protein, minerals 
and the more important vitamins. 

Among the most important protective foods are the dairy 
products, especially milk. Then the glandular animal tissues 
{e.g., liver) and eggs; "fat" fish, green vegetables and fresh 
fruit are also very rich in vitamins and minerals. Finally, 
there are certain fats (butter and cod-liver oil) of special value 
for providing vitamins A and D. Vitamin D, which is sparsely 
distributed in ordinary foodstuffs, is a vital necessity for young 
children living in temperate climates or in industrial regions 
where sunlight is scarce, especially in winter. 

Among the prominent energy-giving foods are the fats, the 
cereals and sugar. The ordinary mixed diet should form a 
collection of protective and non-protective foods supplying the 
requisite energy for the body's activity and containing all the 
necessary protective elements in a correct balance. An unlimited 
number of different diets could be composed, all of which would 
satisfy this nutritional ideal. According to the variation in the 
food supply in different climates and under different 
cirumstances, so the problems of correct nutrition will in practice 
be met by a large variety of different food combinations. The 
principles of correct nutrition, however, remain the same. 

4. Special Dietary Needs of Different Classes and 

Age-groups. 

Study of the incidence of nutritional disease has demonstrated 
the general principle that, where a specific dietary deficiency 
exists, evidence of its effects will be first apparent in those 
individuals who are subjected to special physical strain. 

If the protective elements are adequate in a diet, the needs 
for support of extra manual work can easily be met by additional 
non-protective foods, such as fats and carbohydrates, from which 



— 66 — 

the additional energy can be obtained. Where the supply of 
protective elements is inadequate, physical strain will often 
make the defect manifest. Thus, in the history of arctic 
exploration, where the diet lacked the antiscorbutic elements, 
men performing hard manual work have frequently been the 
first to sicken of scurvy. In the East and West Indies, where 
the diet consists too exclusively of polished rice and is lacking in 
B vitamins, beri-beri frequently attacks expectant and nursing 
mothers as well as gangs of coolies performing heavy work. 
Where the diet is deficient in calcium salts and phosphates 
(as, for example, in Northern China and North-West India), 
it is chiefly the child-bearing women who suffer from 
osteomalacia ^ although the men are also affected if the 
deficiency is very severe. Special need for protective food arises 
in cases of expectant and nursing mothers, who have to perform 
extra nutritive functions in addition to nourishing their own 
bodies. Growing children also require an abundance to provide 
nourishment for their growing tissues and the younger the child 
the greater the need for the protective foods. In these cases, 
there is special need for an adequate mineral and vitamin 
supply and for " good " protein. The results of deficiency may 
remain latent for some length of time in a manner analogous to 
the incubation period of an infective disease of low virulence, 
such as tuberculosis. Malnutrition, especially in children, affects 
not only the physical health, but also the mental development. 
It is a great evil at all ages, but there are specially sensitive 
periods when the organism is growing ; such are found in uterine 
life, in early childhood and in adolescence, when the ill-effects 
of faulty nutrition are much more serious and may even be 
irreparable. 

(a) Expectant and Nursing Mothers. 

There is good reason to believe that a large amount of sickness 
and disability associated with child-bearing, and the high 
mortality rates of pregnant women, could be substantially 
reduced by improved feeding of these women. During pregnancy 
and lactation, the mother has not only to be supplied with all 
the nutritional factors necessary for her own health, but has also 



See footnote, page 5i. 



- 67 - 

to sustain the extra burden of having to provide many essential 
chemical substances for the development of the growing 
embryo and foetus. It is undoubted that many modern diets 
are deficient in certain chemical substances and bring about 
much ill-health to the mother as well as defective development 
and diminished resistance of the foetus and infant. One of the 
commonest defects in modern civilised diets is a faulty mineral 
supply leading to disordered calcium metabolism, so that the 
mother has to sacrifice the calcium salts of her own bones for 
the developing offspring. This deficiency may be so great as 
to result in osteomalacia, but, whereas this is rare in European 
countries, smaller defects in calcium metabolism are undoubtedly 
common. This is evident in the increased tendency to dental 
caries in women at these times. Other distressing complaints 
during pregnancy, which are apparently related to the defective 
calcium nutrition, include muscle soreness and weakness, and 
the consequent inability to perform ordinary daily activities, 
which is generally not relieved by rest during the day or on 
retiring at night ; also, the inability to sit or lie long in 
one position, a condition often associated with intervals of more 
definite muscle spasm and contractions which may be quite 
severe. In an investigation made in America on 576 cases of 
pregnancy, 316 complained of symptoms of this nature. In 
almost all these cases, relief followed the administration of 
additional calcium and vitamin D. 

In a Norwegian investigation, eleven women out of sixteen 
were found in a condition of negative calcium balance towards 
the end of pregnancy — that is to say, these women were losing 
more calcium from their body than was provided in their food, 
and this negative balance was made positive by increasing 
the daily calcium intake by providing them with about two 
pints of milk a day. Other sources of vitamin D, such as 
cod-liver oil or egg-yolk, were also effective in improving this 
condition. 

Another substance which is likely to be deficient in the diet 
of pregnant women is iron, of which the maternal organism 
has to supply a relatively large quantity to the foetus. A large 
proportion of women of child-bearing age suffer from simple 
anaemia, and this condition is exaggerated by pregnancy and 
lactation. Thus, in an investigation made at a hospital in London, 



— 68 — 

rather more than 50% of nursing mothers had a haemoglobin 
content of the blood of less than 80%. This common deficiency- 
can be repaired either by giving iron salts in pregnancy or^ 
better still, by giving foodstuffs rich in iron, such as meat, 
egg-yolk and vegetables. 

It is well known that a deficiency of iodine in the diet of 
pregnant women may be of great significance. Only small 
quantities of iodine are necessary to supply the demands of 
the offspring at this time, but this minimum is essential to 
prevent prenatal abnormality of the thyroid gland, which 
predisposes the child to simple goitre, and, if sufficiently severe, 
to cretinism, and ordinary foodstuffs are so deficient in iodine 
that it is sometimes impossible to ensure even this small amount. 
In some countries in Central Europe, this difficulty is overcome 
by giving iodised salt in food — that is to say, sodium chloride 
containing i part of sodium iodide in 200,000 parts of sodium 
chloride. As regards natural foodstuffs, sea fish is the only rich 
source of iodine and, where procurable, this ought to be included 
in the diet of all pregnant women once or twice a week. 
Otherwise, it is essential to add iodised salt to the food. Japan 
is the only country which is free from goitre (about one case per 
million of population). This is due to its high consumption of 
foods of marine origin, all of which contain iodine. 

There is evidence that vitamins are commonly deficient in 
the diet of pregnant women. The commonest deficiency is 
probably that of vitamin D ; vitamins A and C are also ingested 
in deficient amount in many instances. These dietetic defects, 
except in the case of vitamin D, can be readily overcome by 
including such protective foods as milk, eggs, green and other 
vegetables and fruit in the diet. Where there is lack of sunshine, 
vitamin D can be provided in abundance in the form of cod- 
liver oil or of some preparation of the vitamin itself. 



(b) Infants. 

The importance of breast-feeding. — Complete breast-feeding 
of infants is of very great importance. It is cheaper, simpler 
and cleaner than artificial feeding and, in the case of a properly 



- 69 - 

fed mother, the benefits brought to the infant are great. 
Impressive evidence on this point was suppHed by a large- 
scale enquiry reported from the Infant Welfare Centre of Chicago, 
in which 20,061 infants attending the centre between the years 
1924-1929 were closely followed up for the first nine months 
of each infant life. Of these, 48.5% were wholly breast-fed, 
43% partially breast-fed, and 8.5% wholly artificially fed. The 
artificial feeding was carried out on a definite plan, and all the 
infants — artificially fed and otherwise — were attended at 
intervals by the officials of the centre. The mortality rates of 
these different groups of infants were as follows : 

Number of infants Total deaths Percentage of 

deaths of infants 

Wholly brea.st-fed . . . 9.749 15 0-i5 

Partially 8,605 59 o-7 

Artificially fed 1.707 I44 8.4 

It will be seen that the mortality rate among the artificially 
fed infants is fifty-six times greater than that among those 
completely breast-fed. The difference in the death-rate 
between these classes of infants was largely due to deaths 
following respiratory infections and, to a less degree, gastro- 
intestinal and other infections. Thus, whereas only four out 
of 9,749 of the breast-fed infants died of respiratory infections, 
eighty-two out of the 1,707 artificially fed infants died from this 
cause. 

No clearer evidence could be obtained to enforce the 
advantages of breast-feeding as compared with artificial 
feeding. Similar impressive evidence on the value of breast- 
feeding was afforded by the enquiry of the League of Nations 
into the causes of infant mortality in six European and 
four South-American countries, which also demonstrated 
the part played by bad feeding in infant mortality. Where this 
mortality was low, the digestive troubles usually caused by 
defective feeding were rare ; where it was high, digestive troubles 
were very prevalent — they were the outstanding cause of death, 
and it is by reducing them that mortality can be reduced. 
Conversely, where breast-feeding was general, the " nutritional 
peril " was usually small ; where artificial feeding predominated, 



— 70 — 

it was great. But, although the superiority of breast-feeding 
over artificial feeding with cow's milk has been demonstrated, 
breast-fed infants may yet be improperly nourished if, in 
addition to their mother's milk, they are given other untimely 
or unwholesome food, or do not receive the necessary vitamins 
in the form of supplementary foods. 

The increased frequency of respiratory, gastro-intestinal and 
other infections in artificially fed infants and the resulting greater 
mortality can be ascribed to two causes. One is the " food peril " 
itself, which may be due to the infected milk of an artificial diet 
or to the irritating and indigestible nature of other constituents, 
and the other is the diminished degree of resistance to infection 
produced in infants fed on artificial diets as compared with 
those receiving mothers' milk. All milk which is given to 
bottle-fed infants should be boiled. 

Common nutritional defects of infants. — The necessity for 
proper feeding of the nursing mother in order to allow the 
maintenance of her own health, to ensure the presence in her 
milk of a good supply of all the essentials for the infant's health 
and development, and even for the continuation of an abundant 
milk secretion, has been mentioned above. In breast-feeding 
under good conditioub, the need for giving supplementary 
dietetic substances to the infant is diminished. In most cases, 
however, it is advisable to include cod-liver oil to supply 
additional vitamins A and D and iodine, and some form of 
vitamin C, such as orange juice. Where this is not available, 
the juice from grated raw potato, cabbage, carrots or turnips 
will serve equally well. Great care should be exercised that the 
vegetables be thoroughly washed, and the hands should be 
thoroughly clean before preparing the juice. 

Infants at birth have an abundant supply of iron stored in 
their livers and, in the period of milk-feeding, these stores are 
gradually used up so that the haemoglobin in the blood is reduced 
from 100% at birth to about 70% at the age of three months. 
This can be regarded as a physiological type of anaemia, as it 
occurs in practically all infants, both breast and artificially 
fed, although the fall is more severe and the recovery during 
subsequent months less in artificially fed than in breast-fed 
infants. The administration of iron to these infants will raise 



— 71 — 

the haemoglobin level to 'J'J^ and upwards in the period from 
5 to 12 months of age. In untreated infants, the haemoglobin 
will generally drop from 70% at 5 or 6 months of age to 65% 
at 12 months of age. It has also been shown that the 
infants with low haemoglobin in their blood have a much higher 
sickness rate due to infections than those receiving iron. The 
need for including iron-containing foods, such as egg-yolk or 
some form of iron itself, into the diet of infants over 6 months 
seems evident. 

Even in the case of breast-fed infants, it may be desirable to 
give dietary supplements, but the need varies according to the 
climate. Thus, infants born in the tropics and exposed to much 
sunshine may need no extra vitamin D. Where infants are not 
so exposed it is of great importance that the diet should have 
a high calcifying value from birth onwards to ensure perfect 
calcification of the developing teeth and the proper growth of 
the jaws, preventing subsequent irregularities of the teeth. 
Such a diet will also prevent rickets and osteoporosis ^ and ensure 
the formation and growth of good bones. 

In the case of the artificially fed infant, the inclusion of 
vitamin D and other specific protective substances is of much 
greater importance. Such infants ought always to be given 
cod-liver oil, orange juice, or some other product rich in vitamin 
C, also egg-yolk, because the common illnesses of infants, such 
as rickets, defective formation of teeth and anaemia, are much 
more frequently found in artificially fed than in breast-fed 
children, while gastric and respiratory infections in the former 
are much more likely to be severe and even fatal. 

There is a common practice nowadays of including cereal 
and cereal products in the diet of young infants. The 
immediate effect of giving such foodstuffs is often apparently 
beneficial, as indicated by the increase in weight. The modern 
teaching of nutrition, however, is against giving cereals before 
8 months or so, and even then only small amounts should be 
given. Many cereal products are very poor in vitamins and 
available mineral elements and their inclusion in the diet 
limits the intake of milk and other protective foods. There 



1 Osteoporosis is a condition of the bones in which the substance which gives them hardness — i.e., calcium 
phosphate — diminishes. Such bones easily fracture. 



— 72 — 

is also evidence that they actually are harmful in the sense 
that they increase the demand for vitamins A and D and 
calcium and that their own calcium and phosphorus content are 
not available for the formation of bone in the growing organism 
under some circumstances. Thus a rapidly growing infant 
nourished with cereals is more liable to suffer from defects of 
calcification of the bones and teeth than one on a diet of milk 
and other protective foods only. It is probable also that the 
consumption of cereals by these young infants diminishes 
their resistance to broncho-pneumonia, intestinal and other 
infections. 

The enquiry made by the League of Nations into the causes 
of infant mortality referred to above made it clear that the 
pernicious combination of poverty and ignorance was largely 
responsible for malnutrition in infancy, as, indeed, for that 
seen in other stages of human life. 



(c) Early Childhood, Preschool Age, Nursery-school Age. 

As a rule, maternal and infant welfare institutions do not yet 
follow the child beyond the end of its second year, and there is 
consequently a gap in the health supervision between infancy 
and school age. Yet that is the time when malformations of the 
bones, dental defects and abnormalities of the pharynx appear. 
They will be discovered by the school medical officer, but it will 
then be too late to prevent and, in some cases, to remedy them. 
It is desirable to prevent these causes of chronic ill-health as 
far as possible by procuring improved feeding of children in 
these early years, both by extending the application of social 
services and infant welfare institutions forwards, or of the 
school medical services backwards to this age, and by increasing 
the knowledge and means of poor parents for better feeding of 
their offspring. 

By the time children enter school, at the age of 5, large 
numbers show some form of physical defect and, although 
there is no proof that all of these defects could have been 
avoided by improved feeding, there is good evidence that many 
would not have developed under such conditions. In a recent 



1^ 



enquiry (1931) in London schools, it was revealed that, among 
children of 5 years of age, there were from 67% to 88% of cases of 
abnormalities of the bones, 67% to 82% (according to the 
gravity of the symptoms) of cases of adenoids, enlarged and 
septic tonsils, and other disorders of the pharynx, 88% to 93% 
having badly formed or decayed teeth. There is evidence that the 
defective bone formation and much of the dental decay among 
these children would have been avoided by the inclusion in 
their diet of large quantities of the protective foods, such as 
dairy products, and therefore less reliance upon bread and other 
cereals. How serious and widespread may be the defects in the 
feeding of children at this age can be seen in the following 
example : in 1921, in a city in the United States, out of 6,015 
children of pre-school age, 90% were found to be receiving an 
inadequate diet according to current standards, 57% never 
received any fresh milk, 16% no milk of any kind, 59.5% no eggs, 
60% practically no fruit, 50% no vegetable other than potatoes. 
As an aggravating circumstance, these dietary deficiencies were 
accompanied by a lack of proper rest or sleep. Is it any wonder 
that so many of the children beginning school life show physical 
defects and mental inactivity ? 

It is just at this age that there is great need to maintain the 
resistance of children at the highest possible level against the 
ravages of the infectious diseases to which they will be exposed, 
such as measles and scarlet fever, and especially their sequelae, 
broncho-pneumonia, middle-ear disease and nephritis. These 
diseases, if they do not kill, often leave the child with some 
chronic disorder which disables it for life. It is, for instance, at 
this age that deafness often has its starting-point owing to 
infection of the ear following measles and scarlet fever. Below 
the age of 3 years, measles is a particularly deadly disease, and 
there is suggestive but not conclusive evidence that the high 
mortality rate at this and older ages could be reduced by better 
nutrition of such children. 

(d) School Age. 

In the early years of school life, many children are 
already " damaged goods ". They frequently show evidence of 



— 74 — 

previous defective feeding and lack of care in deformity of the 
bones of the limbs, chest and head, in bad dental structure often 
associated with decay, in deafness to a greater or less degree,, 
in running ears, septic tonsils and adenoids, and in simple 
goitres. These indications of disease are not generally, however, 
from the present medical point of view, regarded as evidence of 
malnutrition and, indeed, there is no definite proof that some 
of them — e.g., running ears, enlarged and septic tonsils — would 
have been prevented by proper feeding from early life, although 
this is probable. During the past fifteen years, the effectiveness 
of the provision of iodine in preventing goitre has been 
demonstrated on a large scale in several areas. 

Malnutrition is usually diagnosed in school-children on the 
basis of subnormal growth and weight and general sickly 
appearance of the child. Nothing is more important than that 
a new attitude should be adopted towards this problem, for 
whereas such results of improper feeding as subnormal 
growth and weight and undefined general ill-health can 
usually be rapidly improved by better feeding conditions, 
the more chronic conditions due to earlier defective dieting 
cannot be so easily remedied, but continue to act as a handicap 
throughout life. The system of medical inspection of children 
that is now generally established under State control in different 
countries must be sadly handicapped so long as it has to deal 
with many children who come under its control from the 
beginning in a pathological state. Prevention rather than 
treatment of disease must be more and more emphatically 
stressed and, so far as this can be procured by better feeding, 
this ought to be done. 

Even, however, on the present basis of diagnosis, there is 
abundant evidence of malnutrition in school-children. From 
20 to 30% of school-children were found to be under-nourished 
in the poor quarters of Paris ; in some cases, the only 
meal the children had during the day was that provided by the 
school canteen. Such cases are reported as frequent in 
Yugoslavia. In Poland, according to a recent estimate, 25% 
of school-children are ill-nourished in certain regions, 7% are 
threatened with tuberculosis, while additional meals should be 
given to at least 50% (according to documents received by the 



— 75 — 

Mixed Committee). In the United States, 7 14 million school- 
children were under-nourished in 1933, according to a statement 
by the Secretary of Agriculture. 

In 1917, according to specialists in rickets, nearly all the 
children of the negro population of New York were suffering 
from this disease ; 83% in Connecticut in 1923 ; 43.4% in 
the villages in the north of Norway in 1931 ; 33 to 67% in 
two northern counties of Sweden. Rickets is still an important 
social disease in England, although the discovery of its aetiology 
and means of prevention is gradually causing its reduction. 
As regards dental caries, the enquiries carried out in various 
European countries have shown it to be present in from 50 to 
95% of the children examined. In a recent enquiry undertaken 
in Norway, only 160 out of 25,000 school-children examined 
possessed perfect sets of teeth. According to the English report 
mentioned above, out of 3,303,983 children examined in 1933, 
2,263,135 needed dental treatment. Dental caries frequently 
result in abscesses at the roots of the teeth. From these abcesses, 
disease-producing organisms frequently enter the blood and 
set up infectious processes in the joints, kidneys and other 
sites. Dental caries lays the foundation for much serious ill- 
health. 

It is true that all these observations have not been based on 
uniform tests and that the state of ill-health of children likewise 
depends on other causes : sequelae of previous infectious diseases, 
faulty hygiene in the home and inadequate amount of sleep 
and exercise in the open air. 

So far as greater height and weight, muscular strength, general 
vitality and more vigorous activity are concerned, there is 
definite proof that much can be done by improved feeding of 
school-children. The evidence is of two kinds : first, derived 
from observations in which diets of school-children in boarding- 
schools have been constant over a period of years and then 
changed over a further period of years ; and, secondly, from 
experiments in which milk or some other supplement has been 
added to the dietary over a period of months, and the effect of 
this change on the children noted. An example of the first of 
the experiments is seen in one English Public School, where the 
diet was closely controlled over the years 1913 to 1933. Between 



- 76- 

the periods 1919-20 and 1928-29, there was a substantial 
increase in milk consumption, butter was substituted for 
vegetable margarine and there was a decreased consumption 
of bread. Associated with these changes in the diet, the average 
height of boys of 11 years of age increased from 4ft. 6.65in. to 
4ft. 7.33in. and that of boys of 15 years of age increased from 
5ft. 2.89in. to 5ft. 3.97in. There was a correspondingly large 
increase in weight of these children during the period of improved 
feeding. Curiously, two other improvements in general condition, 
probably due to increased milk consumption, were observed 
which are of great significance — namely, {a) a great decrease 
in fractures of bones in accidents, and {b) a decrease in 
rheumatism and rheumatic conditions. 

The effect of adding milk and other supplements to the diet 
for a period of one year was, according to an English writer, 
equally dramatic in its action. A pint of milk added daily to 
what was considered a good diet in an institutional boarding- 
school caused in boys of 6 to 11 years old an increase of 2.63 
inches in height and of 6.98 lb. in weight as compared with 
increases of only 1.84 inches and 3.85 lb. by similar boys who did 
not receive the supplement of milk. It was also remarked that 
there was much less illness among the extra-milk children, 
especially naso-pharyngeal catarrh, a reduced tendency to 
chilblains, a better condition of the skin, while the children were 
more alert and high-spirited. Burnet and Aykroyd have given 
accounts of other similar experiments on adding milk to the diet 
of school-children, and it may be taken as completely proved 
that the addition of milk to the diet of school-children would 
greatly increase their average height, weight, strength, vitality 
and general health. 

Since school-children do not develop rickets or bone 
deformities, but only carry the stigma of earlier attacks of 
this disease, it is often assumed that they do not require so 
much milk to supply calcium as in earlier years. There is an 
clement of truth in this idea, but only an element. The bones 
and teeth of school-children are growing and calcifying rapidly, 
and defective calcification of bones makes itself obvious by the 
ease with which they break. The frequency of bone fracture is 
a great social problem in some countries, especially in industrial 



__ 77 — 

countries, and deserves more attention than it receives, and 
there is little doubt that this trouble would be greatly reduced 
by the consumption of larger quantities of milk and other 
protective foods. 

Another important problem of child health is the tendency, 
during the school age, to contract acute rheumatism with its 
tragic associates, chorea, heart disease (rheumatic endocarditis), 
one of the commonest causes of chronic disability, ill-health 
and early death in some countries. If the greater consumption of 
protective foods can reduce these distressing conditions — 
and there is some suggestive evidence that it can do so — 
a great blessing would be conferred on mankind. 

Compulsory education has been generally adopted throughout 
the civilised world. It is agreed that large numbers of school- 
children are not mentally or physically capable of profiting by 
this universally accepted recognition of the social obligation 
to educate the mind of every individual. Might it not be as 
well to make such children more physically and mentally fitted 
to benefit fully from these educational facilities by assuring 
that their nutritional needs are fully satisfied ? 

(e) Adolescence. 

The state of nutrition among adolescents is much less 
accurately known than among school-children. All authorities 
on the subject are, however, agreed that, under normal conditions 
of life, this is one of the most crucial periods. The rapid rate 
of growth of the adolescent makes abundant and efficient 
nutrition particularly important and yet this is a period when 
the State ceases to show a maternal interest in his physical 
well-being. There is evidence that, even in the case of boys and 
girls entering good employment at the age of 14 or 15 with 
reasonably good physique, they suffer much deterioration by 
the age of 18, a condition which is largely due to insufficient 
and unsuitable food eaten during this period. 

This is the age when the most serious cases of pulmonary 
tuberculosis occur. Every tuberculosis specialist is convinced 
that the appearance of tuberculosis before the twentieth year is 
due to two main causes : overwork and malnutrition. 



- 78 - 

Although the general incidence of tuberculosis has been 
decreasing in many countries gradually during the past loo 
years, and especially during the past thirty years, it is a 
distressing fact that this rate of reduction does not occur to the 
same extent in the case of adolescent and young adult people. 
Indeed, in young women there has been an increase in 
tuberculosis during recent years in some countries. This state of 
affairs has been ascribed by some to the modern habit of 
"slimming", by others to the greater expenditure dictated b}?^ 
modern habits of life on clothes, which leaves too little money 
for the purchase of proper food. Whatever may be the real 
explanation, it is undoubted that many adolescents in all 
countries, but particularly in industrial countries, are being 
improperly nourished at the present time and are suffering in 
consequence. Efforts of an educative nature ought to be taken 
to make adolescent boys and girls realise that the best health 
and the fullest physical and mental development is only possible 
if their dietary contains an abundance of the protective 
foodstuffs. 

(f) Young Soldiers. 

Military service claims young men at the end of adolescence, 
before they are fully mature. The rejection as unfit of a 
proportion of the men called up is not evidence that malnutrition 
is the only cause of their rejection, but military doctors do, in 
fact, assert, on their knowledge of the facts, that malnutrition 
is one of the main causes. In Belgium, as a result of the 
examination of 49,000 recruits in 1931, it was found that physical 
fitness had declined as compared with pre-war statistics, and 
among the causes (increase in school work, unemployment, 
excessive championship-hunting in sports), the defective feeding 
of children during the war and the increase in the incidence of 
diseases of the digestive tract are ranked first. In Denmark, 
a third of the recruits present a combination of symptoms 
known as " Danish disease " (fiat feet, varicose veins, pains in 
the extremities and cramp in the calf of the leg). In Finland, 
notwithstanding the very high level of athletic attainments, 
21% of recruits are rejected, and doctors attribute this to general 



— 79 — 

malnutrition among the poorer classes. In Poland, where there 
is a mass of evidence to show the vast extent of malnutrition, 
the proportion of recruits rejected is extremely high. It is a 
pity that the examination of recruits is not made more use of 
as a means of enquiry into malnutrition. How can we help 
being alarmed when we learn that, in the army of a large 
European nation, the proportion of men rejected for physical 
unfitness has risen, between 1923 and 1932, from 45.25 to 67.78 
per thousand ? 

(g) Adults. 

Every fresh enquiry, in town or country, reveals either patent 
or latent malnutrition. ^ 

The recent history of the high incidence of malnutrition among 
adults seems to be identified with that of unemployment. If 
unemployment has not augmented the evil of malnutrition 
to the extent that might have been expected, it is because 
malnutrition has been held in check by the development of 
Public Health Services. The effect of unemployment relief is 
reflected in an improvement in the diet of the unemployed. On 
the one hand, expenditure of energy and food requirements 
were diminished, and, on the other, when large-scale social 
organisations take care of the unemployed, the latter's diet, 
though less abundant, is often more rational. 

It would be a mistake to believe that, generally speaking, 
unemployment produces no harmful effects. Its effects are to 
be sought, not so much among the adult unemployed as among 
their growing children. For more than two years now, in the 
United States of America, the Children's Bureau has been 
■collecting information of different kinds from various sources 
which proves that the depression is having an increasingly bad 
effect on the nutrition and health of children. Thus, according 



1 In the United States of Axnerica, according to a recent communication from the Cost-of-living Division 
in the Ministry of Labor, of 209 families examined in the North-Atlantic States, 14 % were found to be under- 
nourished "from every point of view". In Yugoslavia, the so-called "passive" regions, which produc- 
neither wheat nor other vegetable foodstuffs, are suffering to a great extent from malnutrition owing to the 
exiguity of their purchasing power. Among certain classes of workers, wages are not sufficient to provide 
an adequate dietary, particularly when there are not enough wage-earning members of the family. In certain 
districts in Northern Sweden, where agricultural production is scanty and foodstuffs are scarce, a deficiency 
of vitamins has bee n observed. Cases of anaemia and scurvy are not infrequent. 



— So- 
to the New York City records, the percentage of school-children 
in a bad state of nutrition rose between 1929 and 1932 from 16 
to 29 in Manhattan and from 13 to 23 in the Bronx. 
At Philadelphia, among young children under 6 years of age 
examined at the " Community Health Center ", the figure rose 
from II (1928-1930) to 24 (in 1932). 

The ravages caused by rickets, the most serious deficiency 
disease in countries of the temperate zone, have been described 
above in the section on children. It is in adult women, however, 
that one of the most serious disabilities of rickets becomes 
manifest, although the cause of the trouble has really started in 
the young and adolescent stages of life. The condition referred to 
is contracted or rickety pelvis, a defect frequently found in 
women in industrial centres. The small size and deformed shape 
of the pelvis in such women prevents the easy birth of the 
infant. A greater call on surgical interference is therefore made 
in child-birth under such circumstances, and this not only means 
greater distress to the mother, but also an increase in the liability 
of these women to puerperal fever, one of the commonest causes 
of death after child-birth. This is one of the best examples that 
can be given of the importance of prevention when dealing 
with a common and widespread disorder. The problem of the 
large number of deaths associated with child-birth is rousing 
much interest in some countries. Surely an essential point 
in any attempt to diminish this serious state of affairs is first to 
ensure fully developed and perfectly formed pelvis bones in 
child-bearing women by proper feeding of female children and 
adolescents. If this were attained, surgical help in child-birth 
would be much less needed and there would undoubtedly be 
a diminution in maternal mortality. 

Another deficiency disease, pellagra, still plays havoc in 
temperate countries and causes 3,000 deaths a year in Roumania 
and 4,000 in the United States of America. If complete data 
were available, deficiency diseases, whether patent or latent, and 
their sequelae, would probably be found to occupy a far more 
important place in the annals of malnutrition than at present 
appears. Certain diseases which were thought to have been 
stamped out or to have become very rare are again making 
their appearance. In connection with the privations caused by 



— 8i — 

the war, Danish doctors noted a sort of recrudescence of diseases 
of the eye caused by nutritional deficiencies, including a 
deficiency in vitamin A : thickening and opacification of the 
cornea, and weak vision, particularly at dawn and dusk. These 
symptoms would be detected more frequently if they were 
looked for more often. 

There is considerable evidence of the influence of defective 
feeding on the tuberculosis death rate. The figures must be 
treated with caution, because in most cases other physical and 
mental causes are present, such as overcrowding, slums, overwork 
and worry. But no doctor who has had any experience of 
tuberculosis will deny the influence of diet upon the outset, 
progress and also the prevention and cure of this disease. 
Moreover, there have been, in the recent history of Europe, 
during and after the war, certain sad exceptional periods 
distinguished — unenviably — by food restrictions with which 
have coincided a very marked recrudescence of tuberculosis 
mortality : in the United Kingdom as from 1915, in the 
Netherlands as from 1916 and in French Flanders during the 
enemy occupation ; in Germany, during the war and during 
the inflation period of 1922-23. A few months after the cessation 
of the restrictions or blockade, the death rate fell to its pre-war 
figure. Generally speaking, it had been higher in the towns than 
in the country, because the country population could grow their 
own food and thus were not affected by some of the restrictions. 
In Denmark, the tuberculosis death rate, which had been steadily 
falling before the war, increased a little during the war as a result 
of food restrictions, although at that time there was no housing 
shortage. Subsequently, after the war, the tuberculosis death 
rate resumed its downward trend in spite of a prolonged housing 
shortage ; circumstances had dissociated two of the causes 
of tuberculosis mortality — housing and nutrition — and had 
demonstrated the outstanding importance of the latter. 

Tuberculosis in industrial centres, although diminishing in 
incidence, is still one of the great killing diseases. It must also 
be remembered that, although this disease is being gradually 
reduced, the rate of reduction is much smaller in adults than it 
is in children. In fact, in dealing with adolescents, it was pointed 
out above that the incidence of tuberculosis in young women 



— 82 — 

(15-25) and to a less extent in young men has actually increased 
in some years during the past decade. Apart, however, from 
adolescence, the death rate due to tuberculosis in the adult is 
still very high, and it may be hoped that a wider adoption of 
the teachings of the present report by adults will bring about a 
substantial decrease in incidence, together with a corresponding 
fall in the death rate. Bronchitis, like tuberculosis, is a more 
deadly disease among poor people than among the well-to-do, 
in contrast to the greater frequency with which diabetes mellitus 
and appendicitis occurs among those with more money to 
spend. The position as regards the question of some relationship 
between bronchitis in the adult and malnourishment is similar to 
that of tuberculosis — that is to say, there is only suggestive, 
but not established, evidence of a direct correlation. Here again, 
therefore, it is possible that an increase in the consumption 
of protective foods, especially by poor people, would reduce the 
incidence and death rate due to this disease. 

Though further enquiries will be necessary to establish the 
influence of certain given foodstuffs on human susceptibility or 
resistance to infection, there can be no doubt as to the general 
value of a proper diet in increasing resistance to disease. 

5. The Modern Science of Nutrition 
AND THE London Report. ^ 

The New Science of Nutrition. 

In determining human dietary standards, physiologists 
in the past have generally devoted their attention to minimum 
requirements. Such was the usual standpoint of Governments 
and administrations when called upon to fix the rations for 
bodies of workers, or to feed large masses of soldiers and 
civilians in war, or when obliged to assist the unemployed 
and their families during the time of industrial depression. 

The idea of an optimum diet, on the other hand, has been 
developed and brought into pre-eminence by modern science. 



1 The London Report on "The Physiological Bases of Nutrition " by the Technical Commission of the 
Health Committee in November 1935. It was subsequently revised and amplified and reproduced as 
Volume II of the interim report of the Mixed Committee on Nutrition (1936). 



- 83 - 

An optimum diet is one which provides for the full development 
of the individual for efficiency without exhaustion and for 
his resistance to disease. 

The standard for adequate nutrition, like the standard for 
hygiene in general, cannot be limited to that required for 
the prevention of avoidable diseases by means of a minimum 
or barely adequate diet ; the business of adequate nutrition 
is to create health by means of the optimum diet. 

Many of the well-recognised vitamin-deficiency diseases — such 
as scurvy, rickets, beri-beri, pellagra — are caused by severe, 
prolonged deficiency of one or other of the essential protective 
vitamins. Except for rickets, they are, fortunately, of relatively 
rare occurrence in temperate regions, and their full manifestation 
can usually be prevented by a minimal intake of the appropriate 
preventive factors. Much more common are the latent states of 
malnutrition, which may give rise to no visible disease — states 
which might be called pre-scurvy, pre-rickets and pre- 
osteoporosis, pre-pellagra, pre-beri-beri, pre-caries or the 
formation of teeth of imperfect architecture. The opportunity 
that lies before the science of preventive nutritional medicine 
rests upon the knowledge that these states exist and upon the 
proof of the necessity for striving after optimum nutrition rather 
than minimum nutrition. 

In this connection, it has been observed that nutritional 
research will exercise a greater influence in preventive medicine 
by increasing the vitality of the human species, with all that 
that implies, than by preventing the frank " deficiency diseases ". 
The importance of this fact has not yet been fully recognised. 
The health of the individual, in the majority of cases, is 
destroyed, not so often by severe attacks of illness (which 
are more in the nature of accidents), as by the gradual 
action of persistent but unrecognised causes, of which one of 
the most important is a badly composed dietary. This is 
one cause of inferior physical development and nervous 
instability, of lack of recuperative power and endurance, and 
consequently of cumulative fatigue and lack of resistance to 
tuberculosis and other infections. Moreover, the diet largely 
influences the rate at which the organism ages and consequently 
the duration of life. 



- 84- 

Preventive action against such nutritional diseases as scurvy, 
rickets and beri-beri, although superficially more impressive, 
is probably of less importance to the human race than the 
acquisition and application of such knowledge as will also 
improve the general condition and well-being of every man, 
woman and child, through the better choice, provision and 
utilisation of foodstuffs. 

Such are the principles underlying the work of the Commission 
of Physiologists appointed by the Health Committee which 
held its first session in London at the end of November 1935. 



6. Dietary Standards adopted in the London Report. 

The Assembly resolution of 1935 recommended that the 
technical organisations of the League should make a study of 
nutrition in its relation to public health, labour, agriculture, 
trade and social progress. The basis of this work being the 
science of nutrition, it was necessary to obtain a pronouncement 
from nutritional experts as to the nutritional needs of the human 
being in the course of its development, from conception to 
the adult age. This pronouncement is contained in the report 
of the London Commission. 

The question of human nutritional requirements has been 
under the close consideration of physiologists during the last 
three-quarters of a century, their conclusions being based 
either : (i) on the average spontaneous consumption of 
population groups ; (2) on statistics of food production and food 
imports and exports for a nation or a city ; or (3) on direct 
experiment with calorimetry on animals and human beings. 
The answers given by the scientists are matters of importance 
for public health, labour, agriculture, trade and public and 
private finance, and have been both numerous and varied. 
This circumstance has been a matter of amusement at times 
to the layman, but a source of anxiety and difficulty to the 
medical men and administrators who have to prescribe for 
individuals and to feed communities and masses of the 
population. Opinions regarding the necessary number of calories 



_ 85 - 

follow two tendencies : one towards the maximum and the other 
towards the minimum requirements. 

In the report of the Technical Commission, the two aspects of 
nutrition, the quantitative and qualitative, and the fundamental 
importance of protective foods, are brought out by the division of 
the report into two parts : I — dealing with energy, protein and 
fat requirements ; II — dealing with mineral and vitamin 
requirements. In both parts, the dominant idea is the needs 
of the human being during development. At the beginning of 
life, the child is inseparable from the mother, and additions, 
not only of energy, but also of protein and of all protective 
elements, are prescribed for pregnant women, nursing mothers, 
infants, children and adolescents. 



(a) Energy Requirements. 

The human race is not made up of arithmetical units, but 
of adults, adolescents and children of both sexes ; of childless 
women, pregnant women and nursing mothers ; of workers 
both manual and sedentary, and of idlers. If the ration for 
an adult male (and, even so, what type of male adult is 
meant ?) is taken as unity, what is the proper fraction for a 
v/oman, or for a child at different ages, or for an adolescent 
at different stages of growth ? In other words, what coefficient 
is to be used for conversion of the standard to the appropriate 
figures for each class ? There are in existence a score of scales 
of coefficients among which physiologists and hygienists can 
choose. The need is now felt, however, for a common scale 
which will allow of uniformity in national and international 
comparisons. The question was considered by the Rome 
Conference of Experts (1932), but only a provisional 
solution was reached. The questions of the standard calorie 
ration for the male adult and of the scale of coefficients were 
therefore dealt with at the London meeting. 

Instead of adopting a mean figure representing the needs 
of an adult man performing an average but indeterminate 
output of work, the Commission fixed a basic figure representing 



— 86 — 

the requirement for maintenance to which supplements are 
to be added for work, growth, pregnancy and lactation. This 
basic figure represents the need of the average adult, male 
or female, living an ordinary everyday life in a temperate 
climate and not engaged in manual work. The needs of such 
an adult are stated to be met by 2,400 calories net {i.e., after 
deducting waste in cooking and at table) per day. Most 
authorities have agreed upon this figure for the type of adult 
under consideration ; and it so happens that the figure is 
convenient for calculation on a basis of 100 calories per hour. 
Conditions and age being equal, no difference is made between 
the sexes. 

As the amount of muscular effort varies with the occupation 
and the number of hours of work, it is convenient to calculate 
the supplements on an hourly basis. Four grades of work are 
distinguished — light, moderate, hard and very hard — within 
which it will be possible for hygienists and engineers to place 
any given form of work. 

(b) Protective Foods, Mineral and Vitamin Requirements. 

In Part II of the London report, stress is laid on the need 
for protective foods. These are expressed in everyday terms 
as milk, butter, cheese, eggs, meat, potatoes, fresh green 
vegetables and fresh fruit. Sunlight is also reckoned as a 
protective nutritional agent, because it generates vitamin D 
in the organism. 

Milk. 

The need for milk in the human dietary. — The use of the milk 
of cows and other mammals in the diet of the human race is as 
old as the history of mankind, and during the long ages in which 
it has been thus used its value has ever been highly esteemed. 
A land " flowing with milk " was the ideal of pastoral tribes 
in ancient times and will still remain the ideal, if the correct 
nutrition and health of the people receive due consideration. 

The value of milk is well demonstrated by a survey of the 
dietary habits of the different native races inhabiting the world. 



-87- 

Fine physique, good health and virihty are usually seen in races 
where milk has an important place in the diet, as, for example, 
amongst the Arabs and other races inhabiting South- Western 
Asia and South-Eastern Europe. The contrast in health, 
strength and stamina is proverbial between the Hill tribes of 
India, who partake largely of milk, and those dwelling in the 
plains, where the diet is more exclusively vegetarian and consists 
largely of cereals. 

Modern scientific research has entirely confirmed the empirical 
conclusions drawn from human experience as to the dietary 
value of milk. Milk, which is designed to afford complete 
nutrition to the mammalian young, is known to contain all 
the factors needed for satisfatory nutrition, combined in a 
suitably proportioned mixture of : 

(i) Protein of good quality, 

(2) Fat, 

(3) Carbohydrate, 

(4) Mineral salts, 

(5) Vitamins. 

In this respect, milk is the nearest afpvoach we possess to a 
perfect and complete food, and no other single food is known that 
can he used as a substitute. If this had not been so, milk would 
long ago have disappeared from the dietary of civilised peoples, 
especially of those dwelling in cities. For milk is not only the 
most nutritious, but is also the most inconvenient, and at times 
may be a dangerous foodstuff. For its high nutritive value 
makes it also a perfect medium for the growth of other organisms, 
including bacteria. In other words, milk will not " keep ", and 
an elaborate organisation is needed to bring it regularly to the 
consumer in a fresh condition. Apart from the bacteria concerned 
with the " natural " processes of souring and putrefaction, milk 
may also act as a vehicle for the spread of the germs of definite 
disease, such as tuberculosis, diphtheria, typhoid and scarlet 
fevers. The reason why, in spite of these drawbacks, we continue 
to include milk in our diet is because its value is unique. 
Evaporated milk, dried whole milk and dried skim milk are 
more economical than fresh milk and have been found extremely 



— 88 — 

useful in areas with inadequate dairy herds, where the quality 
of the fresh milk used in their production has been properly 
safeguarded. 

It is true that it is possible to secure a fully adequate diet 
except in infants and young children without the inclusion of 
milk. This is shown, among other examples, by the physical 
perfection of the peoples of certain islands of the Pacific when 
they lived under primitive conditions. They ate a wide variety 
of vegetable foods, supplemented with fish, turtles, shell-fish, 
etc. But such foods as were available to them are not available 
to people subsisting on the agricultural products of Europe 
and the Americas. In these geographical areas, the products 
designated as protective foods must be made available in greater 
abundance for the protection of health. 

Another reason why the importance of milk is stressed for 
these populations is that milk production on a large scale is 
economically sound in large areas, not only because of its unique 
value as a food, but also because dairying conserves soil fertility 
to a greater degree than does most other types of agriculture. 

The nutritive value of milk. — (i) The proteins contained in 
milk, lactalbumin and casein, possess a high nutritive value, since 
the amino-acids of which they are composed make them especially 
suited to supply the requirements of growth in the young, as 
well as of maintenance in the adult. 

(ii) The carbohydrate is present in milk in a soluble form, 
as milk-sugar. 

(iii) The fats of milk are present in an emulsion of different 
fats of low melting-point. Milk-fat, when separated as butter, 
is the most digestible and acceptable fat known to us and is a 
source of the vitamins A and D. 

(iv) Minerals : cow's milk is one of the foods richest in 
salts, especially in calcium salts and phosphates. These two 
minerals are essential constituents of every cell in the body, 
so that an adequate supply is necessary for the maintenance 
of health at all ages. The amount of lime in cow's milk (1.5 — 2 
parts per 1,000) is only equalled by that contained in some green 



- 89 - 

vegetables. In milk, however, the lime salts are present in a 
form specially easy of absorption. 

(v) Vitamins: while the nutritive value of cow's milk 
depends to some extent on the diet and management of the cow, 
yet the nature and proportion of the protein, carbohydrate, 
fat and salts it contains are maintained with remarkable 
constancy over a wide range of variation in the type of feeding 
adopted. There is, however, more variation in the vitamin 
content, and the highest value in this respect is only found in the 
milk of cows which are exposed to the rays of the sun and fed on 
their natural diet of fresh green herbage — i.e., on pasture in the 
summer ; nevertheless, winter milk remains a valuable foodstuff 
in this respect. It is true that the amount of the antirachitic 
vitamin D, so essential for the growing child, is much reduced 
in winter milk. 

Vitamin D, however, whose physiological function is to 
secure the retention in the body of the lime salts and phosphates 
ingested in the food, acts with much greater economy when these 
salts are present in abundance in the diet. In many climates 
in the winter, therefore, when, owing to the lack of sunshine, 
the growing child is unable to synthesise vitamin D for itself, 
an abundant supply of milk is specially needed, for the salts 
thus supplied will enhance the action of the diminished amount 
of vitamin D present in the milk and other articles of food. 

The composition of the proteins of milk makes them specially 
adapted for the support of growth in young organisms and gives 
them a definite supplementary action towards those of cereals, 
which are inferior in nutritive value. Milk, it is recommended, 
should represent a large proportion of the diet at every age. 
The report of the Technical Commission approved the tendency 
displayed in certain countries to increase the consumption of 
milk to as much as one litre per day for pregnant women and 
nursing mothers, and to provide a comparatively large quantity 
for infants, children and adolescents. For these classes, it 
strongly recommends free or cheap milk distribution. It calls 
attention to the nutritive value of skim milk, which, although 
it has lost its fat and fat-soluble vitamins, retains many other 
valuable nutrients. It therefore deplores the way in which this 



— 90 — 

valuable food is wasted in many countries. Of other milk 
products, cheese retains the proteins of milk, a large proportion 
of the calcium salts and vitamins, while butter is the most 
nutritious fat in the modern dietary. 

Eggs- 

Eggs are important as a source of good protein and of valuable 
minerals, including iron ; the fat contained in the yolk is a 
rich source of most vitamins, especially of the B vitamins, also 
of the antirachitic vitamin D, which is otherwise sparsely 
distributed in foodstuffs. 

Meat. 

Meat has a special value as a source of protein and iron. 
Its popularity is chiefly due to its appetising and stimulating 
properties ; but, from the nutritional point of view, the protein 
of ordinary muscle meat is inferior to that of eggs or milk. 
The glandular tissues, on the other hand — liver, kidney, sweet- 
bread (pancreas) — are among the most highly nutritious foods 
we possess, as regards the character of the protein, the mineral 
and vitamin content. They are also rich in a substance which 
stimulates the formation of red blood-cells in the bone marrow. 

Green and Leafy Vegetables. 

Green leafy vegetables are rich in the B vitamins and in 
vitamin A ; they are also among the richest sources of the 
antiscorbutic vitamin C. Since this vitamin is sensitive to heat, 
the dietary value of uncooked salads is obvious. 

The abundance of minerals and vitamins in green vegetables 
and the special character of the protein, although present in 
small quantities, make them of great value, especially as 
supplementary foods to a diet containing cereals. Just as 
among pastoral communities the defects of a cereal diet may 
be corrected with milk and dairy products, so, under other 
circumstances, correction can be obtained by green vegetables. 
In the densely populated regions of Southern China, for example, 
where animal foods cannot be raised, the deficiencies of the 
rice diet are largely repaired by the abundance of vegetables 
eaten. 



— 91 — 

Fruit. 

The special nutritive value of fruit depends on high vitamin C 
(ascorbic acid) content. Different fruits vary greatly in their 
vitamin C content, the richest being citrus fruits [e.g., oranges 
and lemons). Tomatoes are also valuable : grapes are relatively 
poor. 

Vitamin C is readily destroyed by heat, so that fruit jams 
and preserves usually contain none. It is probable that preserved 
fruits, however, may possess a dietary value due to their mineral 
content. Oranges, again, are rich in calcium salts, while grapes 
are rich in iron, and fruits generally may have a special value 
in supplying mineral constituents to those on otherwise restricted 
diets. Fruits having a yellow colour — e.g., oranges and tomatoes 
— are often useful sources of vitamin A owing to their carotene 
content. 

Cod-liver Oil and Other Fish-liver Oils. 

The importance of cod-liver oil was stressed in the report of the 
Technical Commission as a source of vitamin D for infants and 
growing children, especially for those living under climatic, 
seasonal and social conditions where sunshine is limited. It is 
also a valuable source of iodine and vitamin A. Cod-liver oil 
contains 85 to 100 international units of vitamin D per gramme. 
The liver oils of the halibut, tuna and of the percomorph fishes (of 
which the perch is the common type) contain extraordinary 
quantities of the vitamin. The percomorph liver oils contain as 
high as 100,000 I.U. per gramme. Although these oils are much 
less abundant than cod-liver oil, their high potency in vitamin D 
makes them effective in very small doses, and they are important 
sources of this nutritive factor. 

(c) Energy-hearing Foods. 

The report of the Technical Commission sets out some specimen 
diets for various age-groups up to the age of 5 years and for 
mothers. In these, the report so arranged the protective foods as 
to yield approximately 1,400 calories per head without the 



— 92 — 

inclusion of any cereals, fats or sugar. These would have to be 
added as required to satisfy the energy requirements of any 
individual, as distinct from his essential mineral and vitamin 
requirements. 

In the general recommendations in its report, the Technical 
Commission emphasised the following views : 

" Although a simplified diet may be so constituted from 
a few protective foods as to be satisfactory, it is a general 
principle that variety in diet tends to safety, provided it 
contains a sufficiency of the protective types of food 
materials." 

" White flour in the process of milling is deprived of 
important nutritive elements. Its use should be decreased and 
partial substitution by lightly milled cereals, and especially 
by potatoes, is recommended. The consumption of an excessive 
amount of sugar is to be condemned, and in this case also 
partial replacement by potatoes is urged." 

It will be noted that the report of the Technical Commission 
recommends the modification in many countries of the 
proportions hitherto occupied in dietaries by the three foods 
named. 



Cereals. 

Cereals form a most convenient and acceptable food of high 
energy value and for centuries they have been the staple food 
of the great Asiatic and Mediterranean civilisations. Their 
value is self-evident ; but, in Europe especially, partly because 
of the increased availability of protective foods, their 
consumption has tended to diminish, except under conditions 
of heavy manual labour or because of limitations in income. 
At the same time, cereals are being consumed more and more 
widely in a highly milled form. The report suggests that bread 
should be made more protective by restoring to the flour, as far 
as possible, the special nutritive principles contained in the husk 
and germ of the grain, particularly the vitamin B group. This 
recommendation, issued at a moment when the question of 



- 93 — 

different kinds of bread is being discussed in every European 
country, is of great importance both for economic as well as 
for hygienic reasons. 

Sugar. 

In the last thirty years, sugar has become one of the 
cheapest forms of calories and the consumption has increased 
manifold in many European countries, especially among the 
poorer sections of the populations. In the United Kingdom, 
it has been estimated that a fivefold increase in average con- 
sumption has taken place during the last hundred years. Refined 
sugar, like highly milled cereal products, provides energy 
without any protective elements. An excessive proportion of 
sugar in the diet is especially bad for children, whose instinct 
to eat it seems altogether out of proportion to its nutritional 
qualities, since it occupies the place which should be filled by 
protective foods. 

Potatoes. 

Special attention is called to the value of the potato as a 
food rich in calories and in starch and is particularly suited to 
substitute sugar and cereals in the modern European diet. 
The introduction of sugar and white flour to populations in 
remote districts has been followed by the occurrence of dental 
disease previously unknowii. Examples are found among the 
inhabitants of Iceland, among Esquimo and native Indian tribes 
in Alaska and Western Canada and among the races inhabiting 
Northern Scandinavia. A large proportion of potatoes in the 
diet encourages no such predisposition to dental disease as is 
the case with cereals ; populations showing relative freedom 
from dental disease with high consumption of potatoes are found 
in certain islands of the Hebrides, in rural Finland and in Poland, 
and in Tristan da Cunha, in which island at the present time 
potatoes form a large proportion of the dietary, and dental caries 
is a rarity. Potatoes are also a valuable source of iron and 
vitamin C, and one of particular value, because they retain a 
high proportion of their vitamin C content after cooking. 



PART III. 



Chapter 1. — Recent Trends in Food Habits. 

2. — Agriculture and Nutrition. 

3. — Food Prices and Consumption. 

4. — Factors influencing Food Prices. 

5. — The Relation of Income to Nutrition. 

6. — The Relation of Education to Nutrition. 

7. — Evidence of Malnutrition in Certain Countries. 



— 97 — 

Chapter 1. 

RECENT TRENDS IN FOOD HABITS. 



A. Introductory. 

1. The remarkable progress made during the past century 
in transport, refrigeration and finance has greatly influenced the 
dietary habits of Western peoples. Before these developments, 
the nature of the diet was of necessity determined mainly by 
local resources, being largely animal in pastoral communities and 
becoming increasingly vegetarian with the development of tillage. 
There were marked seasonal variations in human food con- 
sumption. As a result of the technical revolution in transport and 
the development of international trade, the diet of all peoples 
became more diversified, adequate and stable. 

2. With the progress of science, the influence of national 
conditions has played a continually smaller role. The applica- 
tion of science to agriculture in the course of the nineteenth century 
resulted at once in the extension of the cultivation of food crops 
to new areas and in more intensive exploitation — greater yields 
per acre and per beast — and an increase and improvement in 
varieties produced. At the same time, methods of handling and 
preparing foods were improved. 

3. In consequence of these changes, the character of the food 
problem itself was altered. Throughout many parts of the world, 
it practically ceased to be a problem of hunger and became rather a 
problem of nutrition. It is, of course, impossible to say exactly when 
this transition occurred; the process was gradual and imperceptible. 
It is, however, sufficient to compare our present preoccupations 
about the qualitative adequacy of diets (their animal protein, 
vitamin and mineral content) with the famines which decimated 
whole communities even as late as the first half of the nineteenth 
century, to realise the enormous progress that has taken place. 

4. These technical advances have been accompanied by a 
change, perhaps as revolutionary in nature, in the science of 



-98- 

nutrition. The importance of rational feeding in building the 
bones, teeth and body in general as well as in maintaining good 
health has been brought into the foreground of scientific discussion. 
New criteria of food values have been set up ; a beginning has been 
made in popularising the new knowledge ; and the selection of foods 
on the basis of the new criteria has become a matter of public 
concern. 

5. Until the scientific discoveries of the past fifty years which 
led to the development of " the new science of nutrition ", the food 
problem was regarded as primarily a quantitative one. Stress was 
laid chiefly on the energy requirements of the body, supplied by the 
fats, the carbohydrates and the proteins of the diet. 

6. The new science of nutrition adds much to the older teachings, 
but it does not supplant them. Cereals and other energy-bearing 
foods retain the important place in human nutrition formerly 
attributed to them. The modern science attaches special importance, 
however, to the necessity for supplementing diets which are largely 
based on the energy-bearing foods with adequate amounts of the 
so-called " protective " foods — a term originally coined by a 
member of the Mixed Committee ^ to designate certain foods 
particularly rich in vitamins and mineral salts. The protective 
foods on which special emphasis is laid are milk and its derivatives, 
including butter; green vegetables; fruit; eggs; glandular tissues; 
fat fish; and, for certain sections of the community, muscle meat. 
Cereals, sugar and certain fats other than butter are important 
chiefly as sources of energy. This classification of foods is, of course, 
general. The protective foods on which stress will be laid in any 
particular country necessarily depends upon food-consumption 
habits, local resources, etc.^ 

* 

7. Governments, in considering their nutrition policies, will 
no doubt wish to know whether the changes recommended by 
modem physiology involve revolutionary disturbances in food 



^ Dr. E. V. McCoLLUM in " The Newer Knowledge of Nutrition " (4th Edition, 
New York, 1929). 

2 See also League of Nations: " The Problem of Nutrition ", Vol. II — " Report 
on the Physiological Bases of Nutrition, estabhshed by the Technical Commission 
of the Health Committee" (Geneva, 1936). 



— 99 — 

habits or whether, on the other hand, their populations have 
already been tending to change their consumption in the required 
direction. Moreover, it is necessary to consider the power of 
agriculture to adjust itself to such changes in the demand for 
food as may result from encouraging the movement towards 
better nutrition. For these reasons, it has been thought conve- 
nient to trace the changes which have taken place in food habits 
since the technical changes referred to above began to exercise 
a real influence on diet, and, in the second place, to examine the 
part that agriculture has played in connection with these changes 
in food consumption. This historical survey should enable us to 
set the present movement towards better nutrition in its proper 
perspective: to show that ground has already been gained before 
setting out what remains to be accomplished ; to show what changes 
in agriculture have already taken place before considering what 
changes may in the future be required; and to indicate what has 
helped and what has hindered the movement in the past before 
making suggestions as regards the future. 

B. Trends in the Consumption of Various Groups of Food. 

8. In default of adequate statistical material, the analysis 
which follows must be illustrative rather than exhaustive. For the 
same reason, it deals mainly with Western countries. 

9. It will be shown in subsequent paragraphs that the 
improvement in the dietary of Western nations which has taken 
place during the past generation has involved, as counterpart 
to the increased consumption of certain protective foods, a reduction 
in the per caput consumption of certain foods valued mainly for 
their energy-producing qualities, notably the cereals. This fact has, 
not unnaturally, caused some concern in certain agricultural circles, 
who fear that, as a result of the development of the movement 
towards better nutrition and the increase in consumption of the 
protective foods, there will be a continuous shrinkage in the demand 
for cereals. 

The Mixed Committee has examined this question at some length 
and has come to the conclusion that an aU-round improvement in 
nutritional standards would result in a considerable increase in the 
total world demand for high-grade cereals, and this for several 



— 100 — ■ 

reasons. As has already been stated in paragraph 6 above, the 
energy-bearing foods remain the basis of the dietary: as nutrition 
improves, these will be supplemented and by no means displaced 
by the protective foods. Moreover, it is clear that the first and most 
urgent aim of nutrition policy must be to do away with under- 
nourishment in the absolute sense — i.e., deficiency of calories — 
where it exists; this unquestionably involves increased consump- 
tion by a considerable number of people in various countries of the 
foods of high energy value, notably cereals. It is a well-established 
fact that persons suffering from a serious deficiency of calories 
are not able to derive full benefit from the high nutritive properties 
of the protective foods. Furthermore, in certain Far-Eastern and 
other countries, a qualitative improvement in diet would probably 
take the form, in the first instance, of the substitution of a cereal 
more compatible with health, such as wheat, for those of lower 
nutritive value, such as maize and rice. In view of the large 
populations and the extent of under-nourishment in these countries, 
this factor may be expected to play an important role in the develop- 
ment of the demand for higher-grade cereals as purchasing power 
gradually increases. Finally, in so far as improved nutrition in 
Western countries entails a greater consumption of foods of animal 
origin, it also involves an increased demand for cereals for use as 
animal feeding-stuffs. 

10. These considerations should be borne in mind in reading 
the paragraphs which follow, and, in particular, it should not be 
supposed that, because a reduced per caput consumption of certain 
foods has resulted from the improvement in consumption habits in 
certain classes in some countries, the total demand for these foods 
would fall with a worldwide improvement in nutritional standards. 

Cereals. 

11. Cereals constitute the principal source of energy in the world's 
diet and for centuries have been the staple food of the great Asiatic 
and Mediterranean civilisation.^ The relative importance of the 
different cereals in the various parts of the world depends upon 
conditions determining production, on price, purchasing power. 



1 See F. C. Kelly : " Wheat ", a report prepared for the Wheat Advisory 
Committee (mimeographed, London, 1936). 



lOI 

custom and taste. In Asia, rice remains, along with millet, the basis 
of the diet ; yield in calories per acre is high and rice is the preferred 
cereal of the population. Elsewhere, wheat has gradually gained 
supremacy. Wheat, at one time the bread only of the wealthy, 
has been increasingly demanded by the lower-income groups of the 
population as their standard of living improved. It has replaced 
coarse grains, such as rye, oats and barley. 

In the United Kingdom, this change was fully effected in the 
nineteenth century; in most other Western countries, it began later 
than in the United Kingdom and was effected more gradually. 
It was, of course, hastened by the import of cheap wheat in large 
quantities from non-European countries in the last quarter of the 
nineteenth century and by the introduction of new and more 
productive methods of cultivation in Europe to meet this 
competition. These developments not only caused a shift from other 
cereals to wheat, but also released purchasing-power for increased 
consumption of other foods. To-day the trend in Europe is almost 
universally away from the other cereals to wheat, but rye is still 
important in a group of countries in Central, Eastern and North- 
Eastern Europe (Germany, Austria, Czechoslovakia, Poland, the 
Scandinavian and the Baltic States) and maize is extensively used 
in certain countries of South-Eastern Europe (particularly Yugo- 
slavia and Roumania) and in parts of the United States of America. 

12. The Food Research Institute of Stanford University has 
made the following estimate of post-war changes in the per caput 
utilisation of the three principal food cereals in the world as a 
whole, excluding Russia: 

Table I. 

" World " Per Caput Utilisation of Principal Bread Cereals 1909-1914 

AND i923-i933.a 

Kilogrammes Change 



Wheat .... 

Rye 

Rice 

Total . . . 176.63 160.30 — 16.33 — 9-2 

a Taken from "Wheat Studies of the Food Research Institute", Vol. XH, No. 10: "World Wheat 
Utilisation since 1885/86 ", by M. K. Bennett (Stanford University, California, 1936). Figures are given 
in bushels of 60 lb. in the original; converted into kilogrammes at the rate of i lb. = 0.4536 kg. (i kg. 
= 2.2 lb.). 



1909/10 
to 

I9I3/I4 


1923/24 

to 

1932/33 


Units 


Percentages 


97.16 


93.62 


— 3-54 


— 3-6 


30.21 


2395 


— 6.26 


— 20.7 


49.26 


42-73 


- 653 


— 13-3 



— 102 — 

The figures refer to total utilisation, including seed and animal 
feed as well as human food. The compiler of the figures is of opinion 
that the per caput animal-feed use of wheat and rye together 
" almost certainly increased between pre-war and post-war years ", 
while per caput seed use cannot have changed appreciably; he 
estimates that the fall in the world average per caput human-food 
use of all three cereals may well have exceeded io%. 

13. Many reasons go to explain this decline in the average 
per caput food use of cereals in post-war years. The most important 
is undoubtedly the general rise in the standard of living. Cereals are 
a relatively cheap food, and as incomes rise they tend to be replaced 
in the diet by more expensive foods: ^ the net result is a greater 
diversification in the diet. Propaganda favouring greater consump- 
tion of the so-called " protective " foods has been another influence 
operating in the same direction. With the increasing mechanisation 
of industry, less muscular energy is expended and the need for 
concentrated foods of high energy value has been reduced. 
Moreover, as will be shown in detail below, sugar has directly 
and successfully competed with cereals as a source of energy. 
Other commodities (for example, milk and fats) have competed 
indirectly; and the ordinary bread in use in some Western countries 
now contains a higher proportion of milk and of fats, as well as 
of sugar, than was the case a generation ago. 

14. The absolute decline in the food use of bread cereals would 
appear to have been greatest in the countries where the great 
bulk of the cereal consumption consists of wheat. These are, in 
general, the countries with the highest levels of living; as incomes 
rose, there was a partial substitution of more expensive non-cereal 
foods for wheat. In countries where rye or maize was the principal 
cereal, there has, on the other hand, been a tendency towards their 
displacement by wheat. The relative importance of cereals and of 
wheat in the national diet of certain countries before the war is 
illustrated in the following table : 



^ For detailed evidence on this point, see Diagram II in Chapter 5 below. 



— 103 



Table II. 

Wheat and Other Cereals in Diet of Certain Countries 

BEFORE THE WaR." 

Percentage Percentage Percentage 

Country of total calories of total calories ^j ^^g^t jn 

derived rom derived from total cereals 

cereals wheat 

United States 34 26 75 

United Kingdom 35 31 89 

Germany 39 16 40 

France 55 50 91 

Italy 64 47 73 

Russia 73 19 26 

Japan 87 6 7 

a. Figures apply to the years just before the war and were secured from compilations carried out during 
the war, largely for the purpose of determining the basis of rationing. Data are taken from " Wheat Studies 
of the Food Research Institute ", Vol. V, No. 4 : " The Place of Wheat in the Diet " (Stanford University, 
California, 1929). Post-war figures of the percentage of total calories derived from cereals would in all 
cases be lower than those shown above. 

The pre- and post-war tendencies in the 'per caput food use of 
wheat in the country where wheat accounted for the bulk of cereal 
intake before the war are given in Table III below. 



I894-I899 


1909-1914 
Kilogrammes 


1929-1934 


216.4 


219.6 


190.0 


126.3 


162.2 


171. 2 


151-3 


153-2 


134-7 


145.6 


140.2 


100.2 



Table III. 

Per Caput Wheat Consumption.'* 



France 

Italy 

British Isles 

U.S.A 

a Based on " Wheat Studies of the Food Research Institute ", Vol. XI, No. 7, and Vol. XII, No. 10 
Given in bushels of 60 lb. in the original; converted into kilogrammes at the rate of 1 lb. = 0.4536 kg. 
(i kg. = 2.2 lb.). 

The fall in the food use of wheat was already in progress in 
the United States before the war. Between the end of the century' 
and the most recent period shown, average consumption fell by 
about a third. At the same time, the per caput consumption of 
cornflour, the only other cereal at all widely used in the United 
States, fell even more sharply (from 47 kg. in 1899 to 9 kg. in 1927). 



— I04 — 

Total cereal consumption, which is estimated ^ to have provided 
1,500 calories per head daily in 1899, does not now provide much 
more than 850 calories per head per day. In the United Kingdom, 
the tendency is in the same direction, though not quite so marked. 
A recent study ^ suggests that the proportion of total calories 
derived from cereals fell from about 35% — as shown in Table II — 
before the war to 30% in 1924-1928. 

15. Post-war tendencies in the per caput consumption of 
wheat in certain countries are shown in Diagram I below: ^ 



Diagram 1. 

Per Caput Food Use of Wheat in Various Countries. 



BUSHELS 



BUSHELS 



7.0 



6D 



5.0 



AO 



3.0 



70 



W 



JAPAN -KOReA 



"YOUGOSLAVIE 
YUGOSLAVIA 




'"^AFRlQuf DU SUD"*^ 

SOUTH AFRICA ^inlaNDE 
FINLAND 



7.0 



eo 



so 



4.0 



30 



2D 



1.0 



o R 



1921 1924 1927 1930 1933 1921 1924 1927 1930 1933 
-24 -27 -30 -33 -36 -24 -27 -30 -33 -36 



1921 1924 1927 1930 1933 
- 24 - 27 - 30 - 33 - 36 



1 Based on " Wheat Studies of the Food Research Institute ", Vol. V, No. 4. 

2 A. W. Flux : " Our Food Supply before and after the War ", in Journal of 
the Royal Statistical Society, 1930. It should be noted that the pre-war figures relate 
to Great Britain and Ireland and the post-war figures to Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland. The exclusion of the Irish Free State from the post-war figures would tend 
to invalidate the comparison with the pre-war figures to whatever extent the food 
habits of the inhabitants of the Irish Free State differ from those of the inhabitants 
of the rest of the British Isles. As, however, the population of the Irish Free State 
in 1924-1928 averaged about 3 million persons, compared with over 45 millions in 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, it is clear that differences in food habits of 
considerable magnitude would be needed to affect the averages seriously. 

^ Diagram taken from " Wheat Studies of the Food Research Institute ", 
Vol. XII, No. 10. 



— 105 — 

To attempt to interpret each of these curves would be beyond 
the scope of the Mixed Committee's task. It may, however, be 
pointed out that the countries in the first group, which include all 
with a consistent downward trend, are — with the exception of 
Denmark and Japan — countries where wheat is the preferred 
cereal and — with the possible exception of Japan — countries with 
high levels of real income. Hence it is reasonable to suppose that 
the decline in wheat consumption represents either a decline in 
total calorie intake per head or the displacement of wheat by 
other (perhaps more highly protective) foods. 

The second group, consisting of those in which per caput consump- 
tion either rose continuously or rose and then remained fairly 
stable, includes certain Northern and Eastern European countries 
in which rye is the staple cereal ; it is likely that the rise in wheat 
consumption represents largely the displacement of rye. 

The third group consists of countries where per caput wheat 
consumption rose up to 1930 and fell thereafter. In most of these, 
another cereal is still largely used: rye in Finland, Germany, 
Austria and Czechoslovakia, and maize in Roumania and 
Yugoslavia. The increase in average wheat consumption in the 
earlier years of the post-war period probably represents chiefly 
the displacement of other cereals, and the subsequent decline, a 
retreat to the cheaper cereals owing to the depression. 

16. The trend movements in the human consumption of 
cereals other than wheat have already been dealt with to some 
extent by implication in the preceding paragraphs, and, in default 
of adequate statistical material, it is difficult to add much to the 
facts already stated. In most countries of Northern, Central and 
Eastern Europe, there appears to be a secular tendency for wheat- 
bread to replace rye-bread: Table I above shows a much greater 
decline in the average per caput utilisation of rye than of wheat. 
In these countries, however, as well as in Western Europe and the 
United States, it seems likely that the average per caput consumption 
of all bread cereals has tended to decline, rye consumption falling 
off by more than wheat consumption rose. Unfortunately, the 
statistics of the fodder use of rye and maize in countries where 
these cereals are widely used for human consumption are in most 
cases too defective to enable this supposition to be put to the test 



— io6 — 

of rigid statistical verification. For Germany, however, statistics 
are available which show a declining total bread consumption and 
an increasing share of wheat in the aggregate. The following table 
shows the use of flour per head of the German population during the 
years indicated: 

Table IV. 

Per Caput Use of Wheat Flour and Rye Flour in Germany. "* 

Rye flour Wheat flour Total flour 

Kg. % Kg. % Kg. 

I9I2/13 65.4 54 56.3 46 121. 7 

1924/25 58.1 53 50.7 47 108.8 

1927/28 49-3 47 54-6 53 io3-9 

a Taken from Berickte uber Landwirtschaft, Vol. 27: " Umstellung des deutschea Getreidebaus " (Berlin, 
1930)- 

In Finland, where rye is used almost exclusively for human 
consumption, the -per caput utilisation fell from about 175 to about 
125 kg. between 1909-1913 and 1926-1928, while the per capiit 
utilisation of wheat rose from 40 to 50 kg. In Denmark and Norway, 
the per caput utilisation of rye for all purposes fell during this period 
by more than that of wheat increased, while, in Sweden, wheat 
appears to have gained about as much as rye lost. Almost all the 
countries for which data are available show a smaller per caput 
utilisation of rye for all purposes in recent years than before the 
war. In view of the general increase in animal husbandry, it is 
probable that the greater part of this decline was due to a falling-off 
of human consumption. 

17. In Europe, maize is extensively used as the principal 
bread cereal of part of the population only in Roumania, Yugoslavia 
and parts of Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Italy and Poland. 
The use of maize inadequately supplemented by foods supplying 
nutrients in which it is deficient has been shown to be the cause of 
pellagra — a serious disease. In Italy, this disease was very wide- 
spread at the beginning of this century, but an extensive public 
health campaign has been successful in reducing the death rate 
from pellagra from 10.7 per 100,000 in 1900 to 0.2 per 100,000 in 



— 107 — 

1928. ^ The campaign included propaganda against excessive maize 
consumption and against its production under conditions which do 
not permit it to ripen completely, the prohibition o^ the sale of 
" spoiled " maize and the establishment of rural bakeries and 
soup-kitchens with the object of supplying a nutritious diet including 
wheat bread. 

As the maize eaten by the rural population is also produced by 
them, no accurate records of consumption are available and it is 
not possible to measure exactly the trend of consumption for the 
parts of the populations concerned. The tendency for wheat 
consumption to rise in these countries does, however, make it 
appear likely that maize consumption has been reduced, and this 
supposition is confirmed by such partial indications as are available. 
According to figures supplied by the Roumanian Union of Agri- 
cultural Chambers, the average consumption of polenta, or maize 
bread, fell from about 140 kg. per head in the Old Kingdom before 
1916 to about 68 kg. per head in 1936. 

Maize is also extensively eaten in certain parts of the United 
States. 2 The efforts to combat pellagra in regions where this is the 
principal cereal have been directed principally to supplementing the 
maize diet with yeast, milk and lean meat, and not to replacing 
maize with another cereal. 



Sugar. 

18. The decline in the use of cereals in most Western countries 
during the present century has been associated with a remarkable 
rise in the consumption of sugar. Sugar is exclusively a fuel food : 
it is completely free of fat, protein, vitamins or mineral elements. 
It is valued chiefly for its ease of assimilation, its taste and for the 
flavours it imparts to other foods. The substitution of sugar for 
cereals as a source of energy thus involves a loss of valuable nutritive 
properties ; on the other hand, the rise in the consumption of sugar 
is partly due to increased use of fruit, which is richer in these 
properties than cereals. 



1 W. R. Aykroyd: "Pellagra", in "Nutrition Abstracts and Reviews". 
Vol. 3, 1933. 

2 See also Chapter 7, paragraph 8. 



— io8 — 

19. The increase in the consumption of sugar during the 
past century is one of the most remarkable changes in food habits 
which have occurred, and illustrates perhaps better than any other 
single index the rise in the standard of comfort. Sugar has been 
extracted from cane from very early times, but it was not until 
the end of the eighteenth century that the process of manufacturing 
sugar from the juice of the sugar-beet was discovered. In Europe, 
the sugar-beet industry was first established in France with State 
assistance under Napoleon; everjrwhere it has been fostered by 
Governments. World production of beet sugar is estimated to have 
increased from 3.8 million tons in 1893/94 to 8.9 million tons in 
1913/14 and II. 5 million tons in 1930/31. The increased competition 
of sugar-beet led to very important technical improvements in 
the cane-sugar industry and world production of cane sugar 
rose from 9.8 million tons in 1893/94 to 19.6 and 29.2 million tons 
in the two later campaign years mentioned above. ^ 

It is a noteworthy fact that up to the present the desire of the 
State to assure large domestic supplies of foods of prime necessity 
has resulted principally in the encouragement of the production 
of foods of high energy value, notably cereals and sugar. As a 
result of these developments, the sugar changed, in countries with 
a high standard of living, from a luxury enjoyed only by the 
wealthy to a necessity of life even for the lowest income groups 
of the population. In 1821, the people of the United States consumed 
3.6 kg. of sugar per head; by the middle of the century the amount 
had risen to 13.6 kg.; in 1900 it was 30.2 and in 1928 over 47 kg. 
per head. Average consumption in the United Kingdom is esti- 
mated to have quintupled in the course of the past century; in 
France, average fer caput consumption increased from 1.33 kg. 
in 1817-1821 to about 11 kg. at the beginning of the century and 
20 kg. in 1920-1930; and in Germany it rose from 3 kg. per head 
in 1850 to nearly 14 kg. in 1900. 

20. The trend of per caput consumption during the present 
century is illustrated in Table V. 



1 Estimates of Dr. Gustav Mikusch, Vienna. 



109 



Table V.« 

Per Caput Sugar Consumption in Various Countries. 

Kg. of raw sugar 



Denmark 
U.S.A. . 



England . 



Switzerland . 
Sweden ... 
Netherlands . , 
Belgium . . . , 
France . . . , 
Germany . . , 
Austria . . . . 
Czechoslovakia 



Hungary 
Russia . 



Poland . . 

Spain . . . 
Italy . . . 
Yugoslavia 



1900/01 


1913/U 


1928/29 


234 


45-7 


56.1 


30.3 


37-7 


540 


44-5 


42.4 


45-9 


243 


32.2 


431 


17.9 


26.0 


39-9 


20.1 


22.8 


31.0 


10.7 


151 


27.9 


16.6 


21.9 


24.6 


139 


21. 1 


26.1 
311 


■ 8.1 


12.9 


28.0 
135 


■ 6.5 


II-5 


9.0 
13-5 


4-5 


6.7 


12.8 


2.8 


5-3 


9-7 
5.5* 


' Die Deutsche Zuckerwirtschaft " (Berlin, 1931). 



b Figure furnished by Dr. E. Markovic, member of the Mixed Committee 

21. The great increase and high level of sugar consumption in 
certain countries have caused some concern to students of the 
physiological aspects of nutrition. ^ The Health Organisation of the 
League of Nations will shortly proceed to consultation and study 
designed to determine the amount of sugar consumption which must 
be regarded as excessive. At the same time, an examination of Table V 
shows a wide range of sugar consumption in different countries ; and 
there is no reason to doubt that in many parts of the world there is 
scope for a considerable increase in the consumption of this food. 

Meat. 

22. Meat is valuable as a source of tissue-forming protein 
and of iron, and is also valued on account of its appetising and 
stimulating properties. The glandular tissues — liver, sweetbread, 
kidneys — are highly nutritious, particularly as regards the character 
of the protein and the mineral and vitamin content. 



^ See League of Nations: "The Problem of Nutrition", Vol. II — - "The 
Physiological Bases of Nutrition " : " The increasing habit in certain countries of 
large sugar consumption tends to lessen the amount of protective foods in the 



diet and is to be regarded with concern ". 



— no — 

23. The production of meat is widely distributed throughout 
the world ; indeed, meat is second only in importance to wheat as a 
staple food. World trade is confined within relatively narrow limits. 
The trade in beef and mutton is largely a movement from the 
southern to the northern hemisphere, while world trade in pig meat 
is largely confined to the northern hemisphere. The movement of 
meat from Europe is entirely dependent upon refrigeration: 
chilling or freezing. The Argentine Republic is by far the most 
important exporter of beef, with Australia, Uruguay and New 
Zealand following. The depletion of European live-stock during the 
war resulted in an increase in the relative importance of foreign 
supplies in European consumption; but European herds have 
grown considerably in the past ten years and the volume of beef 
entering international trade has declined. On the other hand, there 
was an increase in the trade in mutton and pig meat up to 1931. 
New Zealand is the principal exporter of mutton and lamb, followed 
by Australia and the Argentine Republic, while Denmark is the 
main exporter of pig meat. The United Kingdom is the principal 
market for imported meats of all kinds and, in addition, imports live 
cattle from the Irish Free State. 

24. No clear trend in total meat consumption can be discerned 
on the basis of the available statistical material. Table VI below 
compares the average fer caput consumption of certain meats in a 
number of countries in 1909-1913 and 1925. 

Table VI. 



Estimated Annual Per Caput Consumption of Certain Meats, 

I9I3 AND IC 
Kilogrammes b 



1909-1913 AND 1925.'* 



Beef and veal 


Lamb 
and mutton 


Pig 


meat 


Total meat 


1909- 
1913 


1925 


1909- 
1913 


1925 


1909- 
19x3 


1925 


'9°9- 1925 
1913 ^^ 


63.5 


85-3 


65.3 


34-9 


— 


— 


— — 


29.9 


32.7 


14.I 


12.2 


150 


19. 1 


59.0 64.0 


31.8 


32.2 


3-2 


2-3 


28.1 


30.8 


630 65.3 


16.8 


17.2 


0.9 


0.9 


313 


25-9 


49.0 44.0 


14. 1 


20.4 


0.9 


0.5 


— 


15-4 


— 36.3 


14. 1 


15-4 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— — 



New Zealand . 
United Kingdom 
United States . 
Germany . . . 
Belgium .... 
Netherlands . . 

a Data are taken from Imperial Economic Committee " Cattle and Beef Survey " (London, 1934) and 
" Mutton and Lamb Survey " (London, 1935). 

b Given in pounds in the original; converted into kilogrammes at the rate of i lb. = 0.4536 kg. 



— Ill — 

The figures for the United Kingdom and the United States 
suggest that total meat consumption was somewhat higher in 
1925 than before the war. It was lower in Germany; but it will 
be seen from the table given in the following paragraph that the 
pre-war level had been reached again by 1929. Consumption of 
meat in France has been estimated ^ at 27 kg. per head in 1909 
and 34 kg. per head in 1929. 

25. For more recent years more complete estimates (in some 
cases very rough) of meat consumption are available. These are 
summarised in Table VII below: 



^Table VII. 

Estimated Annual Pev Caput Consumption of Meat (in Kilogrammes) 

1925-1929 and 1930-1934." 





Total meat 


i 


Beef and veal 


Mutton 
and lamb 


Pork, 
and 


bacon 
lard 




1925- 
1929 


193a 
193. 


1925- 
1929 


1930- 
1934 


1925- 
1929 


1930- 
1934 


1925- 
1929 


1930- 
1934 


New Zealand . . 


106.7 * 


103.6* 


60.3* 


53-9 


35-8 


41.8 


10.5 


8.7 


Australia .... 


107.2 


91 


5 


69.0 


46.2 


30.0 


37-3 


8.2 


8.0 


Canada 


69.1 


65 


3 


309 


27-5 


2.8 


3-1 


35-4 


34-7 


United Kingdom . 


62.4 


63 


7 


31-5 


29.1 


12.3 


13-9 


18.6 


20.7 


United States '" . . 


62.1 


61 


2 


24.0 


23.6 


2.7 


3-2 


35-4 


35-4 


Denmark .... 


47.0 


52 


4 


21.9 


26.4 


— 


— 


25-1 


36.0 


Germany .... 


49.8 


51 





17.1 


16. 1 


0.8 


0.6 


31-9 


34-3 


Switzerland . . . 


44-7 


47 


2 


25.6 


255 


0.7 


0.6 


18.8 


21. 1 


Netherlands . . . 


42.5 


45 


6 


20.0 


17.9 


0.4 


0.5 


22.1 


27.2 


Belgium 


38.3 


40 


8 


19-3 


17.9 


2.7 


2-4 


16.3 


20.5 


Sweden 


38.7 


36 


I 


19.0 


14.0 


0.7 


I.I 


19.0 


21.0 


Norway 


31.0 


33 


I 


14.4 


14-7 


5-5 


5-4 


II. I 


13.0 


Czechoslovakia . . 


34-2 


33 


3 


13-3 


12.5 


3-4 


3-3 


170 


17-5 


France 


403 


39 





235 


20.9 


30 


2.6 


13-8 


15-5 


Poland 


18.0 


18 


7 


6.9 


7-3 


03 


0.2 


10.8 


II. 2 


Italy 


18.9 


16 


3 


11.8 


9.8 


1.6 


1-3 


5-5 


5-2 



a League of Nations: " The Problem of Nutrition ", Vol. IV — " Statistics of Food Production, Consump- 
tion and Prices " (revised by the International Institute of Agriculture on the basis of information and 
modifications received from Governments). 

b Veal not included. 

c The figures for the United States are not revised. Revised figures for federally inspected meats only 
(representing about 60 to 70% of the total) have been received, and are as follows: 



Beaf and veal . . . . 
Mutton and lamb . . 
Pork, bacon and lard 



I925-I929 

Kg. 


1930-1934 
Kg. 


20.2 


17.8 


1-9 


2.4 


25.8 


25-5 



Total 



47-9 



45-7 



1 By the Office des Renseignements agricoles. 



112 — 



Perhaps the most striking feature of this table is the extremely 
wide range in the estimated meat consumption of different countries. 
To take but two examples, it is estimated that in 1930-1934 average 
meat consumption was almost seven times greater in New Zealand 
than in Italy and twice as high in the United Kingdom as in 
France. 

26. To a greater extent than is the case of many other foods, 
statistics of the average per caput consumption of meat are likely 
to conceal large differences in the consumption of different sections 
of the population. This is true also of the figures showing changes 
in per caput consumption. For example, a comparison of Tables VI 
and VII above suggests that total meat consumption per head in the 
United Kingdom, the United States and Germany (the three coun- 
tries for which pre-war figures are available) changed but little 
between 1909-1913 and 1930 1934. It seems highly probable that 
this virtual stability in average meat consumption results from the 
fact that certain sections of the population which formerly ate little 
or no meat have, in post-war years, greatly increased their meat 
consumption, while other sections of the population, which formerly 
ate meat to excess, reduced theirs. 

27. Changes in the consumption of individual meats are much 
more marked than changes in the consumption of meat as a whole. 
The consumption of the individual meats in the different countries 
appears to depend largely on conditions of production, and (as is 
shown in some detail in Chapter 4 below) relatively small changes 
in price cause considerable shifts in demand. These shifts represent 
the substitution of the cheaper for the more expensive meats: the 
demand for meat as a whole does not show great flexibility. In the 
post-war period, there was, in most countries, a switch from beef 
consumption to mutton and pork, but in certain cases these 
tendencies have been reversed in recent years. 

Fish. 

28. Sea foods are especially valuable on account of their iodine 
content, which is greater than that of land plants or the flesh of land 
animals. The demonstration of the unique qualities of fish oils as 
a source of vitamins A and D suggests the importance of fat fish 



— 113 — 

in the diet.^ The outstanding fat fish are salmon, shad, herring, 
biitterfish and mackerel. 

In particular, the value of the high content of fat-soluble vitamins 
in the livers of some fish is becoming increasingly recognised. But 
there is still much scope for the expansion of preparations of these 
substances — particularly from the livers of halibut and tunny-fish, 
where the necessary vitamins are highly concentrated. 

29. Such statistics of fish production and consumption as 
are available disclose no very marked trend movement. For 
the United Kingdom, the average fer caput consumption has been 
estimated at about 18. i kg. a year in 1909-1913 and the same in 
1924-1928.2 This is a much higher figure than in the United States, 
France or Germany. For the United States, consumption in post- 
war years would appear to have averaged no higher than 6.8 kg. 
per head.^ In Germany, average per caput fish consumption rose 
from 8.4 kg. a year in 1909-1913 to 9.5 kg. a year in 1930-1931.* 
Consumption in France in 1927-1934 fluctuated between 7.5 
and 8.2 kg. per head per year; in Italy, consumption is about 5 kg. •; 
in Switzerland, only 2.7-3 kg.; and in Denmark, about 11.3 kg. 

30. It is difficult to resist the conclusion that there is scope for 
a large increase in fish consumption. In recent years, considerable 
progress has been made in fishing methods, particularly through 
the substitution of mechanically propelled craft for sailing vessels 
and the application of wireless telegraphy to trawlers. Improve- 
ments in the technique of canning, refrigeration and drying extend 
the area of consumption and compensate in some degree for the 
irregular nature of the catch of this highly perishable food. Methods 
of refrigeration have improved remarkably during the past twenty 
years and, as a result of research work at present in progress, further 
improvements may be confidently expected. Progress has also 
been made in marketing methods, but much remains to be done in 



1 McCoLLUM and Simmonds: " The Newer Knowledge of Nutrition " (4th ed., 
New York, 1929). 

2 A. W. Flux, op. cit. 

3 U.S. Department of Commerce, Domestic Commerce Series, No. 38 — 
" Apparent Per Capita Consumption of Principal Foodstuffs in the United States " 
(Washington, 1930). 

* Berichte iiber Landivirtschaft, Vol. 88 — " Deutschlands Nahrungs- und 
Futtermittelversorgung " (Berlin, I933)- 



— 114 — 

this direction. In particular, transporting the inedible portions 
of fish frequently adds unnecessarily to costs on retail markets, 
and in many countries the retail price of fish seems very high when 
compared with the price received for the catch and with the 
relationship between retail and wholesale prices of other foods. 
This is no doubt also partly due to the instability of wholesale 
prices resulting from the irregularity of the supply. The retailer 
tends to protect himself by fixing the retail price at a point at which 
he is covered against severe rises in wholesale prices. 

Poultry and Eggs. 

31. Statistics of poultry consumption are difficult to obtain 
and are of doubtful reliability, on account of the widespread 
practice of poultry-keeping among cottagers in all countries. There 
has been a marked increase in the number of specialised poultry 
farms since 1900, and it is not open to doubt that in most countries 
the consumption of poultry has tended to rise in post-war years. 
The amounts received at four great urban markets in the United 
States rose from 97 milhon kg. in 1920 to nearly 181 million kg. 
in 1931 and, though it declined in subsequent years, still amounted 
to nearly 136 million kg. in 1935. Consumption per head is estimated 
at 5.9 to 6.4 kg. In Germany, poultry consumption is estimated 
to have risen from 1.2 kg. per caput in 1925 to 1.8 kg. in 1930 and 
to have remained at 1.6 kg. thereafter. In Switzerland, consump- 
tion of poultry was estimated at i.i kg. per head in 1921, 2 kg. per 
head in 1932 and 1.9 kg. per head in 1934. In the United Kingdom, 
the consumption of poultry rose steadily from 1.5 kg. per head 
in 1925 to 2.3 kg. per head in 1934. In Canada, where the consump- 
tion of poultry has long been relatively high, the same tendency 
is apparent — consumption rising from 4.3 kg. per head in 1925 
to 5 kg. in 1930 and to 8.4 in 1936. 

32. Eggs are a food of special merit; not only are they high 
in energy value, but they are an important source of " good " 
protein, minerals (especially iron) and certain vitamins. It is 
therefore satisfactory to be able to record that there has been a 
marked upward tendency in the consumption of eggs in recent 
years. This is illustrated in the following table of estimated annual 
consumption per head: 



— 115 — 

Table VIII. 

Estimated Annual Per Caput Consumption of Eggs.'* 

1925-1929 1930-1934 

Canada 295 * 285 * 

Belgium 241 236 

United States 251 '^ 252 '^ 

United Kingdom 149 172 

Switzerland 126 157 

France 123 149 

Germany 124 129 

Italy 112 119 

Sweden 90 no 

Austria 93 98 

Denmark 98 in 

a From League of Nations: " The Problem of Nutrition ", Vol. IV — " Statistics of Food Production, 
Consumption and Prices ", documentation prepared by the International Institute of Agriculture (Geneva, 
1936). 

b Gross figures (no deduction for eggs intended for incubation, wastage, etc.). 

c Figures corrected by U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

The only countries included in the above table which did not 
share in the upward trend of recent years are Canada and Belgium ; 
in these countries, egg consumption was already very high in the 
earlier period. 

Dairy Products. 

33. Milk is the nearest approach we possess to a complete food. 
It contains all the materials essential for the growth and mainte- 
nance of life in a form readily assimilable by the body : the energy- 
giving nutrients (protein, fat and carbohydrate) ; all the known 
essential vitamins; calcium, phosphates and other minerals salts. 
Experiments carried out on animals and observations of the effect 
of milk consumption on the growth of children and health of chil- 
dren and adults have established beyond any doubt its very high 
nutritive qualities. Of the milk products, cheese retains the proteins 
of milk and a large proportion of the calcium salts and vitamins; 
butter retains the fat-soluble vitamins of milk and is the most 
digestible and generally nutritious fat in the modern dietary. 
Separated or skim milk retains all the constituents of milk except 



— ii6 — 

fat and is therefore rich in protein, calcium, phosphorus and the 
water-soluble vitamins. 

34. The valuable nutritive properties of milk have been known 
from early times and there has been a steady expansion in the 
production and consumption of milk, so that to-day the cash value 
of the world's production of milk exceeds the cash value of any 
other farm crop. 

During the past fifty years there has been a worldwide increase 
in the production of milk. The growth of dairying has, indeed, been 
one of the most remarkable features of recent world agricultural 
development, and the upward trend of milk production has been 
accentuated during the past decade. The increase in output has far 
exceeded the growth in population and has coincided with well- 
considered efforts in many countries to direct public attention to 
the special nutritive virtues of milk and other dairy products. At 
the same time, in many parts of the world, public control and 
inspection have resulted in higher standards of cleanliness and a 
greater assurance of safety in the consumption of whole milk. As a 
result of all these ca\ises, there has been a marked and general 
increase in the consumption of milk and milk products since at 
least the beginning of the present century. 

35. It is not possible to say what proportion of world milk 
production is consumed in liquid form and what proportion in the 
form of butter, cheese, etc. It is generally assumed that rather 
more than half is consumed as whole milk, though the proportion 
naturally varies widely from country to country. The statistics 
of consumption of dairy products as a whole leave much to be 
desired, but they show clearly that the broad trend of consumption 
has been upward. 

For the United Kingdom, total supplies of all dairy produce 
are estimated ^ to have increased from 5,200 to 5,500 metric 
tons (in terms of fluid milk) between 1909-1913 and 1924-1928; 
dairy produce accounted for nearly 20% total calorie intake 
(about 600 calories per head per day) in the latter period, compa- 
red with 16% (less than 500 calories per head per day) in the 
earlier period. Slightly less than half the dairy-product calories 



^ A. W. Flux, op. cit. 



— TI7 — 

of the latter period were derived from whole milk, slightly more than 
half from butter and cheese and a small amount from condensed 
milk. For Germany, the daily per caput consumption of dairy 
products is estimated ^ to have yielded 515 calories in 1909-1913 
and 541 calories in 1931-1932. In the United States, the average 
per caput consumption of dairy products is estimated ^ to have 
increased from 363 to 408 kg. (in terms of whole milk) at the end of 
the nineteenth century to 455 kg. in 1926. Pearl estimated ^ 
that, in the years 1911-1916, 15% of the energy value of the food 
eaten by the American people was derived from dairy products 
and the proportion in post-war years must be considerably higher. 

36. According to the most recent statistics,* the average 
per caput consumption of liquid milk in the United States rose 
steadily from 144 litres in 1923 to 154 litres in 1929 and fell back 
somewhat in subsequent years. 

The statistical data relating to liquid milk consumption in the 
United Kingdom are unsatisfactory. The Linlithgow Commission, 
reporting in 1923, expressed the opinion that the consumption 
of milk had almost doubled within the previous forty years. As 
total population increased by 46% during this period, this would 
involve an average increase of about a third in per caput consump- 
tion. According to an unofficial estimate,^ consumption per head 
in Great Britain rose by 33 % between 1890 and 1907/8, or at the 
rate of 1.8% per annum; and by an average of just under 1% a 
year since 1924/25, to 100 litres in 1930/31. Consumption per head, 
therefore, appears to have increased less rapidly after than before 
the war; the figure of 100 litres per head is about two-thirds of 
the American and one-third of the Finnish consumption. This 
slackening in the rate of growth of consumption of liquid milk 
after the war is no doubt partly connected with the relatively high 
retail price of milk. In the year ending September 1931, the retail 
price of milk was nearly 75% above the pre-war level, while the 
cost-of-living index was 50% higher and the average retail prices 
of foods other than milk 30% higher. 



^ Berichte iiber Landwirtschaft, Vol. 89, op. cit. 

^ U.S. Department of Commerce, op. cit. 

3 Raymond Pearl: "The Nation's Food" (Philadelphia and London, 1920) 

* Supplied by the U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

5 Ruth L. Cohen, " The History of Milk Prices " (Oxford, 1936). 



— ii8 — 

It must also be borne in mind that milk has not been generally 
regarded as a food in the United Kingdom, but as an adjunct to 
other foods. In recent years, steps have, however, been taken to 
popularise the consumption of whole milk as a beverage, and there 
are now several hundred milk-bars in London alone. 

The trend of milk consumption is also upwards in France, though 
the average remains very low in that country. In recent years, 
" champagne-milk " (full milk, carbonised and flavoured \vith 
fruit-juice) has been consumed in considerable quantities and the 
consumption of yoghourt is increasing rapidly. Propaganda in 
favour of whole-milk consumption has made great headway in 
certain countries of Northern Europe. In the Netherlands, for 
example, the institution of the milk-bar has become increasingly 
popular during the past few years, and the consumption of milk 
and cream per head has been roughly estimated to have risen 
from 77 litres in 1930 to 145 litres in 1932 and 127 litres in 1934. 
In Latvia, the consumption of milk and dairy products increased 
by 30 % between 1930 and 1935, while population rose by only 2 ^ %. 
In Denmark, where the high nutritive properties of milk have also 
been extensively advertised, the consumption is estimated to have 
risen from 100 litres per head in 1926 to 186 litres in 1934. No figures 
are available of the total consumption of liquid milk in Finland, but 
family budget enquiries conducted there in 1928 showed that town 
workers and their families consumed as much as 282 litres per head. 
In Sweden, the figure in 1932/33 was over 136 litres per head. 

37. The fresh milk consumed in the world is largely of domestic 
production; but during the past fifty years — and particularly 
during the past decade — there has been a remarkable expansion 
in the international trade in butter and cheese. 

38. The post-war development of the international trade in 
butter is briefly summarised below. The figures relate to exports. 

Table IX. 

World Exports of Butter. 

In thousands of quintals. 

1909-1913 (average) . . 3,251 1932 5. 508 

1924-1928 (average) . . 4,585 1933 5-590 

1929 5. 121 1934 5.920 

1930 5,336 1935 6,041 

1931 5.753 



— 119 — 

World exports of butter were almost twice as high in 1925 as in 
the pre-war quinquennium. This increase was largely directed 
to the British market, where imports (which had already doubled ^ 
in the last fourteen years of the nineteenth century) rose from a 
yearly average of about 2,032,080 quintals just before the war to 
about 2,870,000 quintals in 1924-1926, 3,175,000 quintals in 1929 
and 4,826,200 quintals in 1935. Per caput consumption must have in- 
creased very rapidly in the years preceding the war. Consumption was 
officially estimated ^ at 6.9 kg. per head in 1907 and 7.4 kg. per head 
in 1925 ; the figure rose steadily to 8.0 kg. in 1929 and 11.4 kg. in 1935. 

In the United States, which is the world's largest butter producer, 
butter consumption appears to have remained, on the whole, fairly 
stable at about 8 kg. per head for at least the last twenty-five years. 

Germany is the largest European producer of butter and the 
second largest importer in the world. Production was greatly 
increased after the war and butter consumption per head, according 
to a private estimate,^ rose from about 6.2 kg. before the war to 
7.6 kg. in 1927. This latter estimate may be high, but the available 
statistics leave no doubt that the tendency of consumption was 
distinctly upwards after 1925. 

39. The pre- and post-war per caput consumption of butter 
in a large number of countries has been privately estimated and, 
without subscribing to the accuracy of the figures given, it is of 
interest to examine the tendency they reveal: 



Table X. 

Pre- and Post-War Annual Per Caput Consumption of Butter.* 



Canada 

Australia .... 
United Kingdom . 
United States . . 
Germany .... 
Sweden 



a Berichte iiber Landwirtschaft, Vol. 22 
(Berlin, 1930). 



Kg. per head 
Pre-war Post-war 

12.6 13.6 Denmark 

1 1.6 13.4 Switzerland 

7.7 8.2 Netherlands 

7.7 8.0 France. . . 

6.7 7.6 Russia . . . 

7.5 7.2 Italy . . . 

Weltproduktion und Welthandel 



Kg. per head 
Pre-war Post-war 



8.0 

5-5 
7.6 

3-9 

2-3 

I.I 



5-7 
5-4 
51 
4.0 
2.6 
i.o 



der Molkereierzeugnisse " 



^ From 1,500,000 to 3,300,000 cwt. between 1886 and 1900. 

2 Report of the Imperial Economic Committee on Dairy Produce (London, 
1926-1936). 

3 Berichte iiber Landwirtschaft, Vol. 22 — " Weltproduktion und Welthandel 
der Molkereierzeugnisse" (Berlin, 1930). 



— 120 — 

The post-war figures relate to 1927. The only countries to show 
a marked decline in per caput butter consumption are Denmark 
and the Netherlands, where the consumption of margarine has 
considerably increased. In most other countries there was a fairly 
well-marked increase in butter consumption. The tendency of 
consumption during the past decade is shown in the following 
table : 

Table XI. 

Estimated Per Caput Consumption of Butter since igas."^ 



New Zealand . 
Irish Free State . 
Canada .... 
Australia ... 
United Kingdom 
Denmark ... 
Belgium .... 
United States . 
Germany ... 
Switzerland . . , 
Netherlands . . . 
France . . . . , 
Italy 



1925 
Kg. 

151 



12.4 

13.0 

7.2 

5-6 

8.0 
5-2 
50' 

5-6 
4.4 

1.2' 



1929 
Kg. 

16.3 

17.8 



13 
13 

8 

5 

7 
7 
7 
5 
5 
5 
I 



1932 
Kg. 

16.3 



13.8 

131 

9.8 

8.5 

10.4 

8.2 

7-4 
6.5 
8.2 
6.1 
1. 1 



1935 
Kg. 



18.8 ' 
14.0 
14.I' 
II.4 
9.4 
8.2 

7.8 

7-5 
6.9 
6.3 
5-8 
1.2 ' 



a League of Nations: " The Problem of Nutrition ", Vol. IV — " Statistics of Food Production, Consump- 
tion and Prices ", documentation prepared by the International Institute of Agriculture (revised) (Geneva, 
1936). Given in pounds in the original; converted into kilogrammes at the rate of i lb. = 0.4536 kg. The 
figures for 1935 are taken from " Dairy Produce ", Imperial Economic Committee, London, 1936. 

b 1934. c 1921. d 1926. 



A general upward trend is clearly apparent from the above table. 
The only significant exceptions are recent declines in Belgium 
and the Netherlands. 

The decline in consumption in these countries is, in all likelihood, 
largely due to the growing industrialisation of butter manufacture. 
So long as butter remained a cottage industry, the small farmer 
consumed some part of what he produced. With the growth of 
specialised dairies, however— a development which undoubtedly 
brought great benefits to the industrial population — the farmers of 
many countries frequently tended to give up entirely the home 
manufacture of butter, sell almost all their liquid milk, and buy 
margarine instead of butter for their own use because it is cheaper. 



121 



40. The consumption of cheese has tended to increase shghtly 
in most countries during the past decade: 



Table XII. 



Estimated Per Caput Consumption of Cheese." 



Switzerland 
Netherlands 
Germany . 
France . . 
Denmark . 
Italy . . . 



1925-29 
Kg. 

9-9 
51 
50 
51 
5-2 
4.6'^ 



1930-34 
Kg. 



1925-29 
Kg. 



United Kingdom 
New Zealand . . 
Belgium . . . . 

U.S.A 

Australia . . . . 
Canada 



2.0 

2.8* 

2.1 

1-7 
1.6 



1930-34 
Kg. 

4-3 
3-5 
2.9 
2.1 
1.8 
1.6 



a League of Nations: " The Problem of Nutrition ", Vol. IV — " Statistics of Food Production, Consumption 
and Prices ", documentation prepared and revised by the International Institute of Agriculture. 
Given in pounds in the original; converted into kilogrammes at the rate of 1 lb. = 0.4536 kg. 
b 1929. c 1926-1929. 



Vegetable Oils. 

41. At least thirty different trees and plants have been used to 
produce oil on a commercial scale. Of the vegetable oils used for 
human consumption, olive oil, cottonseed oil, linseed oil, coconut 
oil, corn oil, palm-kernel oil, soya-bean oil and ground-nut oil are 
among the most important. In recent years, sunflower seed has 
become of increasing importance. The special dietary property of 
the vegetable oils lies in their very high energy value ; they do not 
contain vitamins and mineral matter. 

42. Statistics of the production of the various oilseeds and nuts 
are too incomplete to enable the trends in production to be mea- 
sured accurately; and as a large but unknown part of production 
is used for purposes other than human consumption — such as in the 
manufacture of soap and for industrial purposes — it is, as a rule, 
impossible to trace the trends in human consumption.^ Production 
of many of the oilseeds and nuts is high in Asia and Africa and olive 
oil is extensively produced and consumed in the Mediterranean 
countries. The principal import markets for oilseeds are France, 
Germany, the Netherlands and Italy, and the United Kingdom, 
United States and Japan are also important markets. The crushed 
seed, etc., which is left when the oil is extracted from the seed or 



^ See Imperial Economic Committee 
1936). 



" Vegetable Oils and Oilseeds " (London, 



122 

plant is a very important by-product, the oil cake or meal serving 
as food for live-stock or as fertiliser. 

43. The total utilisation of vegetable oils has increased 
remarkably during the past thirty years and, from such fragmentary 
indications as are available, it would seem likely that the human 
consumption has also risen in most Western countries. Vegetable 
oils have tended to some extent to displace animal fats as shorten- 
ings and cooking fats. As early as the i88o's, lard was adulterated 
with cottonseed oil, and later lard substitutes were manufactured 
from oleostearin and cottonseed oil, and more recently the process 
of hydrogenation has enabled solid and tasteless cooking-fats 
to be produced from cottonseed, maize, soya-bean and other 
oils alone. Moreover, the increasing use of salads and fruits, to 
which reference is made below, has also involved an increase in the 
use of salad oil, chiefly olive oil and also refined, deodorised and 
decolorised cottonseed oil.^ 

44. Vegetable oils are consumed as such mainly in the form 
of olive oil, which is widely used in the Mediterranean countries, 
and margarine, which is extensively used in most parts of the world 
as a butter substitute. The composition, and in consequence the 
dietary value, of margarine is different in different countries. 
The general tendency seems to be to increase the proportion of 
vegetable matter and reduce the proportion of animal matter used 
in its manufacture. 2 Thus, in the United States, packing-house 
fats were more important than vegetable fats until 1919, but since 
then the reverse has been true; coconut oil and cottonseed oil 
predominate. In Belgium, Denmark, Germany, the United Kingdom 
and the Netherlands, vegetable oils are also a more important 
constituent of margarine than are animal oils; in Northern Europe, 
however, there has been a tendency in recent years to make greater 
use of whale oil and other marine oils, but these still remain rela- 
tively unimportant. In the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, 
Norway and some other countries, the manufacturers of margarine 
have, latterly, produced margarine containing the vitamin A 
and vitamin D equivalent of butter. 



^ See " Recent Economic Changes ", Vol. I (New York, 1929). 

2 See Katherine Snodgrass: " Margarine as a Butter Substitute" (No. 4 of 
Fats and Oils Studies of Food Research Institute, Standford University, California, 
U.S.A.). 



— 123 — 

45- The following table shows the post-war changes in per caput 
consumption of margarine in several countries: 

Table XIII. 

Estimated Per Caput Consumption of Margarine.'' 



Denmark ... 
Norway .... 
Netherlands . . 
Germany . . . . 
Sweden . . . . , 
United Kingdom 
Belgium . . . . , 



France . . . 
United States 



I9I3 

Kg. 


1924. 
Kg. 


1926 
Kg. 


1930 
Kg. 


1936 
Kg. 


15.0 


20.7 


22.5 


22.8 


19-5 


10.9 


16.0 


17-5 




.... 


2.0 


7-1 


8.5 


8.9 


5-4 


3-6 


5-6 


6.5 


7-9 


5-6 


4-5 


5-6 


6.0 


.... 


.... 


3-5 


5-4 


6.0 







1-5 


3-4 


4-5 


5-4 


4.2 


0.4 


0.7 


1.0 


.... 


.... 


0.7 


I.O 


1.0 


1.2 


0.9 '' 


<en from U.S. Department of Agriculture, 


" Foreign Crops 



and Markets ", May 14th, 1928. Those for 1930 and 1936 are from official national sources. 
b 1933. 

There is a large range of variation in the consumption of 
margarine in different countries. Consumption is exceptionally 
high in Denmark, where it rose from i kg. per head in 1888 to 
II 14 kg. per head in 1908 and 22% kg. per head in 1930. Part 
of the post-war increase was at the expense of butter, as is shown 
in Table IX above, but, none the less, average butter consumption 
in Denmark remained quite high in comparison with that in 
neighbouring countries. The total consumption of fat in Denmark 
is remarkable high; the fact that this is composed to so large an 
extent of margarine must be largely attributed to the special 
structure of the agricultural system. The skim-milk by-product 
of the dairy industry is used as feed for the pigs, and in addition 
vegetable oilseeds are imported in large quantities. The oil is used 
(along with skim milk) to manufacture margarine and the oilcake is 
used as animal feed. In recent years, vitamin-A deficiency has been 
observed in Denmark and certain circles have aimed at increasing 
the home consumption of butter. 

Margarine consumption is also high in Norway, where the dairying 
industry is not very extensive ; the margarine used in this country 
is vitaminised. It is also considerable in the Netherlands, a dairying 
country, where the consumption of butter is not high. Similar 
factors to those mentioned for Denmark operate here ; much of the 
oilseed imported comes from the Netherlands Indies. Of the other 
countries included in Table XII, special reference need be made 



— 124 — 

only to France and the United States, where consumption is very 
low. In certain parts of France, olive oil is extensively used as such 
and other vegetable oils are largely used in cooking. The consump- 
tion of butter is relatively low. Margarine is used chiefly as a 
cooking-fat rather than a spread. The low consumption may be 
due in part to the legislation against colouring. 

46. The relationship between butter consumption and margarine 
consumption is an interesting and important subject worthy of more 
detailed analysis than it has hitherto received. It has been shown 
above that, during the past generation, the consumption of both 
has increased in several countries; it would appear, therefore, that 
the demand for edible fats is elastic in terms of income and per caput 
consumption tends to rise with increasing wealth. The type of fat 
used appears to depend upon conditions of production and upon 
purchasing power in relation to the relative prices of the various 
substitutes. The price of butter is of particular importance; when 
it fell in recent years, there was in most countries a considerable 
substitution of butter for the less nutritive margarine.^ 

Vegetables. 

47. Recent nutrition teaching has attached special importance 
to increasing the consumption of vegetables, particularly green 
leafy vegetables, such as spinach, cabbage, salads, etc. They are 
rich in the B vitamins and in vitamin A, and are among the most 
important sources of the anti-scorbutic vitamin C; they are very 
rich in important minerals. 

48. Estimates of vegetable production and consumption are 
notoriously unreliable. Even where the area under vegetables is 
known, the yields vary a great deal from year to year, so that 
estimates of output based on area are subject to an unusually 
wide margin of error. Moreover, the recorded statistics of area 
under vegetables generally exclude kitchen-gardens; in the case 
of vegetables, a small plot of ground intensively cultivated has a 
very large yield, so that the omission is important. Under the 



^ Compare the recent movement of butter and margarine consumption shown 
in Table X and XII above. See also Chapter 5, Table XVI, below. In the United 
Kingdom between 1924 and 1934, margarine consumption fell by one-third, while 
butter consumption increased by 57% ; these movements coincided with a fall 
in the price of butter of 48% (cf. Orr: " Food, Health and Income ", page 18). 



— 125 — 

pressure of necessity during the war, the practice of keeping 
vegetable gardens in villages and even cities as well as on farms 
was stimulated in almost all countries. This practice survived after 
the war (although the growing urbanisation of certain countries 
has, perhaps, tended to limit its importance) and undoubtedly 
resulted in an improvement in the quality of the diet. 

49. After making all necessary allowances for the imperfection 
of the statistics, there remains no doubt that, since the war, there 
has been a very large increase in the consumption of vegetables in 
all Western countries. The nutritive qualities of this food have 
been increasingly recognised. Production has tended to become 
more specialised, qualities have been standardised, transport 
facilities improved and marketing better organised. In addition, 
these factors, together with the development of particularly early- 
and late-maturing strains, have contributed much towards the 
reduction of seasonal fluctuations in the consumption of vegetables. 
Special mention must be made of the work of the Producers' and 
Consumers' Co-operative Organisations in improving the quality 
of fruit and vegetables marketed. ^ In all these fields, however, much 
remains to be done, as will be shown later. 

50. A few examples may be quoted to illustrate the recent 
increase in the consumption of vegetables. In the United States, 
figures are available for car-lot shipments of the principal vegetable 
crops by years since 1920. These figures do not include shipments 
by motor, which have become increasingly important, so that they 
probably understate the rate of increase of consumption. 

Table XIV. 

Car-lot Shipments of Vegetables in the United States." 

Snapbeans Carrots Celery Cucumbers Lettuce 

1920 1.473 1,602 10,859 3,689 13,788 

1925 5.133 3.427 20,514 8,492 36.509 

1930 9.559 12,392 25,490 7,663 55.718 

1935 10,076 12,384 19. Ill 5.279 45.669 

Onions Green Peas Potatoes Spinach Tomatoes 

1920 29,473 — 185,176 2,891 18,394 

1925 30.796 2,707* 241,523 7,919 28,254 

1930 40,281 7,294 252,411 9,636 33.578 

1935 30.467 7.966 201,893 5.606 23,318 

a Taken from U.S. Department of Agriculture Year-Books of Agriculture and Agricultural Statistics. 
ft 1926. 



I International Labour Office: " The Co-operative Movement and Better 
Nutrition ". Studies and Reports, Series B, No. 24. Geneva, 1937. 



— 126 — 

The annual -per caput consumption of vegetables other than 
potatoes is estimated ^ to have risen from 58 kg. in 1919/20-1923/24 
to 69 kg. in 1934/35, while the consumption of potatoes fell slightly. 
In the United Kingdom, the consumption of fresh vegetables other 
than potatoes it estimated ^ to have risen from 27.2 kg. per head in 
1909-1913 to 35.4 kg. in 1924-1928 and 44.5 kg. in 1934; consump- 
tion of potatoes shows little net change. The consumption of fresh 
vegetables other than potatoes was estimated ^ at nearly 54 kg. 
per caput in Germany in 1927, and about 43 kg. per caput for the 
city population. For the post-war period, there was a significant 
increase in the consumption of tomatoes, lettuce, cauliflower and 
cucumbers; on the other hand, consumption of cabbage shows no 
increase and consumption of potatoes a slight decline. In France, 
as in other countries, there has been an increase in the variety of 
vegetables consumed. Tomatoes have become increasingly popular, 
endives are cultivated as well as imported in large quantities and 
more beans are eaten than before the war. In some of these countries 
(and no doubt the same is true for others for which statistics are 
not available), vegetables have come to be used less as a source of 
energy than as a source of refreshment. This explains in part the 
increase in consumption of tomatoes, lettuce, celery and cucumbers, 
and the decline or stability in the consumption of potatoes and 
other bulk}^ vegetables. It is worthy of note that the vegetables 
whose consumption has increased most require little, if any, time 
in cookmg, which has no doubt been an additional factor in popular- 
ising their use, particularly where the housewife is also a wage- 
earner. The growth of the canning industry has also played an 
important part in this connection. 

Frvtit. 

51. One of the most remarkable and encouraging changes in 
consumption habits since the beginning of this century is the very 
large increase in the use of fruit. The significance of this develop- 



^ U.S. Dept. of Agriculture, Bureau of Agricultural Economics: " Looking 
Forward on Agricultural Policy" (Washington, 1936). 

2 A. W. Flux, op. cit.; and J. B. Orr: " Food, Health and Income " (London, 

1936). 

3 Berichte iiber Landwirtschaft, Vol. 69 — " Gemiise, Obst und Siidfriichte im 
Deutschen Reich", by Dr. Ludwig Samuel (Berlin, i933)- 



— 127 — 

ment from a nutritional standpoint is scarcely to be overrated. 
Along with milk and vegetables, certain fruits rank high in the 
list of protective foods, being important sources of vitamins and 
mineral elements. 

52. The increased consumption of the citrus and other sub- 
tropical fruits is especially striking. The high medicinal value of 
the lemon has long been known; its antiscorbutic qualities were 
responsible for the provision in the British Merchant Shipping Act 
(1867) requiring ships sailing for countries where lemon or lemon- 
juice is not available to carry enough lemon-juice to provide each 
member of the crew with i oz. per day. The orange was introduced 
into South-Western Europe much later than the lemon and its 
cultivation lagged much behind. International trade in oranges 
developed later than that in lemons, only beginning towards the 
middle of the nineteenth century; the grapefruit was practically 
unknown until the present century. 

53. The following table shows the world trade in citrus fruits 
and in bananas in 1928-1930, compared with before the war: 

Table XV. 

World Trade in Citrus Fruits and Bananas." 

Yearly average 



and ^^^^' 
aandarines demons citrus fruits 


All 
citrus fruits 


Bananas 


In thousands of quintals 






8,079 2,735 17 


10,831 


9.553 


13,634 2,774 504 


16,891 


21,044 



I909-I9I3 .... 

I928-I930 .... 

a Taken from Berichte ilber Landwirtschaft, Vol. 68 — " Weltproduktion und Welthandel an frischen 
Siidfruchten ", by Ritter and Guttfeld (Berlin, 1933). 

The statistics for individual countries show that the consumption 
of sub-tropical fruits has increased most, and is highest, in the 
United States of America, the British Dominions, the United 
Kingdom and the countries of Western Europe.^ The development 
in the United States is shown in the following table : ^ 



^ The consumption of oranges and tangerines is also relatively high in Japan. 

2 Taken from U. S. Department of Commerce, Domestic Commerce Series, No. 38 : 
" Apparent Per Capita Consumption of Principal Foods in the United States " 
(Washington, 1930). 

Given in pounds in the original ; converted into kilogrammes at the rate of 
I lb. = 0.4536 kg. 



Kg. 


Kg. 


6.5 


9.8 


1.8 


2.4 


0.4 


2.5 


9.2 


10.4 



— 128 



Table XVI. 

Per Caput Consumption of Citrus Fruits and Bananas 
IN the United States. 

1899 1909 1926 

Kg. 

Oranges 3.0 

Lemons 1.4 

Grapefruit — 

Bananas 5.7 

The large increase in the consumption of the citrus fruits went 
hand in hand with an educational campaign of the medical profes- 
sion and extensive advertising on the part of the distributors. 
In the United Kingdom, the same tendency is apparent, as is shown 
in the following figures of imports: 

Table XVII. 

Imports of Citrus Fruits and Bananas 
into United Kingdom.* 

1909-1913 1924-1928 1929-1933 1935 

In thousands of tons 

Oranges 283 389 508 513 

Grapefruit — 13 36 60 

Lemon and other citrus fruits 43 62 75 67 

Bananas 102 190 240 305 

a Data from Imperial Economic Committee: " Fruit Supplies in 1935 " (London, 1936). 

Changes in German imports of oranges, lemons and bananas since 
before the war are shown below. 



Table XVIII. 

Imports of Citrus Fruits and Bananas into Germany.* 

1911-1913 1930-1932 1933-1935 

In thousands of tons 

Oranges 137 284 254 

Lemons 37 72 69 

Bananas 36 112 86 

a Data from Imperial Economic Committee: " Fruit Supplies in 1935 " (London, 1936) 



— 129 — 

In spite of the decline during quite recent years, orange and 
lemon imports were nearly twice as great in the last period shown, 
and banana imports more than twice as great as before the war. 
Examples of the same tendency could be multiplied. Thus, the 
average fer capita consumption of oranges in the Netherlands rose 
from 2.6 kg. (including mandarines) in 1902-1906 to 9.35 k^. 
(excluding mandarines) in 1933 ; and of lemons, from 0.54 to 0.91 kg.^ 
In 1913, Sweden imported 6.25 million kg. of oranges; in 1929, she 
imported 15.5 million kg. and, in 1934, 34.8 million kg. Imports 
of bananas rose from 1.15 million kg. in 1913 to 13.3 milUon kg. 
in 1929, and then fell back to 7.3 million kg. in 1934. Belgian im- 
ports of exotic fruits, which had already risen from 12,000 to 31,000 
tons between 1900 and 1913, amounted to 60,000 tons in 1929 
and 117,000 in 1931. In recent years, the French consumption of 
citrus fruits has also increased remarkably; since 1929, imports 
of oranges have more than doubled. 



Table XIX. 

Imports of Citrus Fruits and Bananas into France.* 



Oranges . 

Mandarines 

Lemons 

Bananas 

a Data from Imperial Economic Committee: " Fruit Supplies in 1935 

54. The underlying strength of the tendency towards greater 
consumption of citrus fruits in Western and Central Europe is shown 
in the fact that, in most countries, the movement continued even 
after the economic depression set in in 1929. The estimated per 
capita consumption of citrus fruits and bananas ^ in 1925-1929 
and 1930-1934 is shown below. 



1929 


1932 1935 
In thousands of tons 


103 


198 222 


26 


39 40 


19 


24 29 


126 


221 152 


1935 


" (London, 1936). 



1 Data from " Jaarcijfers voor Nederland " issued by Centraal Bureau voor 
de Statistiek. 

2 The dietetic value of citrus fruits and bananas is not identical; they are, 

however, frequently not separated in trade statistics and are therefore grouped 

toRether in Table XX. 

9 



— 130 — 

Table XX. 

Estimated Per Caput Consumption of Citrus Fruits 
AND Bananas." 

1925-1929 1930-1934 

Kg. Kg. 

United Kingdom 15.6 19.4 

Belgium 5.4 12.5 

Netherlands 8.9 12.9 

France 5.7 11. 5 

Switzerland 6.7 10.7 

Norway 7.2 9.5 

Sweden 4.0 6.9 

Germany 5.5 7.0 

Denmark 4.3 5.5 

Czechoslovakia 2.1 3.1 

a Data from League of Nations: " The Problem of Nutrition ", Vol. IV — " Statistics of Food Production, 
Consumption and Prices ", documentation prepared and revised by International Institute of Argiculture 
(Geneva, 1936). 

Given in pounds in the original; converted into kilogrammes at the rate of i lb. = 0.4536 kg. 

55. Consumption of citrus fruits and bananas is very much 
smaller in the countries of Eastern and South-Eastern Europe. 
In Poland, where there was for many years an import prohibition 
on oranges, consumption of citrus fruits and bananas was only 
0.6 kg. per head per year in 1925-1929 and 0.5 kg. in 1930-1934. 
In Yugoslavia, the consumption of citrus fruits and bananas was 
0.8 kg. in 1925-1929 and 0.7 kg. in 1930-1934. The Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics imports practically no southern fruits. In these 
countries, as well as in Lithuania and Bulgaria, the consumption 
of lemons (chiefly as an adjunct to tea) is as high as, or higher than, 
the consumption of oranges. 

56. In the great majority of countries, the increase in the 
consumption of citrus fruits in recent years has not taken place 
at the expense of other fresh fruit. On the contrary, there is every 
indication that the consumption of fresh fruit has also risen mark- 
edly and perhaps over an even wider area. Unfortunately, with 
the statistics at present available,^ it is not possible to make an 



1 Few countries publish annual figures of fruit production, and for those that do 
so it is impossible to determine to what extent the figures include fruit grown in 
private gardens, whether attached to farmhouses or private dwelling-houses. 
Moreover, the task of estimating fruit consumption is complicated by the utilisation 
of wine grapes for consumption as fruit and by the practice of distilling or drying 
other fruits, especially plums. Figures of apple and pear production may include 
cider fruit to an unknown extent. 



— 131 — 

accurate estimate of the fer caput fruit consumption in a large 
number of countries; it is to be hoped that improvements will be 
effected in this respect in the near future. The upward trend is, 
however, unmistakable. During the past decade, there has been a 
strong development of interest in fruit-growing and an increase 
in almost all the countries in the amount of land under orchard. In 
addition, even in those few countries where aggregate production 
has not increased (or, perhaps better, where no increase is recorded 
in the official statistics), there has been a considerable increase 
in the production of commercially marketable fruit. In addition 
to the growth of farm orchards, there has been a marked develop- 
ment of commercial orchards in many countries ; the trees have 
been more carefully tended ; varieties have been adapted to modem 
marketing requirements and the average level of quality has been 
much improved. 

57. The fact that the average per caput consumption of fresh 
fruit has increased substantially during the present generation 
forms so striking a part of ordinary experience that it hardly 
requires the confirmation of statistical evidence. In the next chapter, 
figures are given to show the large increase in the production of 
fruit in recent years. For the present, it will suffice to quote a few 
typical examples of changes in per caput consumption. 

Thus, in Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the total supplies 
of fruit available for consumption (not including cottage-garden 
produce and consumption on farms) was 1,864,000 metric tons in 
1924-1928 compared with 1,271,000 metric tons in Great Britain and 
Ireland in 1909-1913.1 As the population was the same in the two 
periods, 2 this represents an apparent rise of nearly 50% in per caput 
consumption — from 27.7 kg. to 41.3 kg. per head. The available 
statistics ^ suggest a further increase of the consumption of fresh 
fruit of more than 15% between 1924-1928 and 1934. In the United 
States, although to some extent at the expense of apple consump- 
tion, the consumption of other fresh fruit increased from about 



1 Data from A. W. Flux: " Our Food Supply before and after the War" in 
Journal of Royal Statistical Society, 1930. 

2 It should be noted that the pre-war figures relate to Great Britain and Ireland 
and the post-war figures to Great Britain and Northern Ireland, thus excluding the 
Irish Free State. See footnote ^ on page 106 above. 

^ Imperial Economic Committee: " Memoranda on Fruit Supplies ". 



— 132 — 

23 kg. per head at the beginning of the century to nearly 45 kg. 
per annum in 1923-1927.^ The consumption of grapes in France 
has doubled within the past ten years and the consumption of other 
fresh fruit rose from 3 to 4 million quintals in 1913 to over 10 million 
quintals in 1935. Consumption per head of fresh fruit in France is 
to-day two or three times as high as before the war. In Italy, the 
' consumption of fresh fruit other than citrus fruit, which was 
privately estimated ^ at 16 kg. per head in 1910-1914, is officially 
estimated ^ at 28 kg. per head in 1926-1930 and 38 kg. per head in 
1931-1934. The pre-war figures are not directly comparable with the 
more recent ones, but there seems little doubt that the upward trend 
disclosed since 1926 was already under way before that year. 

58. Not only have people been eating more fruit in recent years 
than formerly, but they have also been able to spread their increased 
consumption more evenly throughout the year. This partial elimi- 
nation of seasonal fluctuations in fruit consumption represents 
distinct progress towards better nutrition. It has been accom- 
plished through an extension of the area from which fruit supplies 
are drawn, through development of the technique of refrigeration 
and the speed of transport and through the growth of the canning 
industry. It must be observed, however, that preservation by 
the ordinary canning process generally eliminates the ascorbic 
acid (vitamin C) found in fresh fruit; but this fact, if recognised 
by the manufacturers, can be overcome by the addition of synthetic 
ascorbic acid. 

One example will be sufficient to show the importance of new 
sources of supply in reducing seasonal variations in fruit consump- 
tion. Twenty-five years ago, it was virtually impossible to buy 
oranges in Europe between the end of April and the beginning 
of December; to-day, with the extension of cultivation to the 
southern hemisphere, they are obtainable the whole year round. 
Hitherto the United Kingdom has been the chief European market 
for summer oranges. In 1935, for example, that country imported 
40% of her total imports of oranges during the seven-month period 
from May to November, while France imported 25% of her total 
imports and Germany less than 10% of hers during these months. 



^ U.S. Department of Commerce, loc. cit. 

2 Estimate of Dr. Lorenzo Spina quoted in Annuario Statistico Italiano, 1935. 

^ Annuario Statistico Italiano, 1936. 



133 



C. General Summary of Consumption Trends. 

59. The principal facts which emerge from the preceding 
detailed analysis can be briefly summarised. In all Western countries, 
the average diet of the population has become increasingly diversi- 
fied during recent decades. There has been a tendency (stronger 
in some countries than others, but everywhere present) for the 
consumption of dairy products, eggs, fruit and vegetables to 
increase; and the great staples, such as cereals and potatoes, have 
come to constitute a smaller proportion of human foodstuffs. The 
fact that a larger proportion of total calorie requirements has been 
derived from the higlily protective foods represents a great nutri- 
tional advance and shows that there is a natural tendency on the 
part of consumers to act upon their better knowledge of the 
importance of rational nutrition so far as economic circumstances 
permit. The only important tendency disclosed in the detailed 
analysis which can be regarded as an exception to this general 
statement is the increasing consumption of sugar in certain countries 
where the level of consumption is very high. 

60. Figures relating to the average consumption of the entire 
population are, of course, not necessarily typical for different income 
and population groups. It is shown in Chapter 5 that there are 
very wide differences in the consumption of certain foods by families 
with different incomes per head. These differences are necessarily 
concealed in a national average. The true significance of an average 
figure differs considerably for the various products; it is greater, 
for example, for cereals and potatoes than for meat, vegetables 
and other protective foods, the consumption of which is known to 
be much higher in families of high incomes than in those where 
means are restricted. 

61. The data available, however, suggest that all classes have 
shared in the general improvement in dietary habits. A few examples 
will illustrate the improvement in workers' diets. A study ^ has 
recently been made of the food habits of relatively small groups of 



^ Medical Research Council, Special Report Series, No. 218: " A Dietary Survey 
in Terms of the Actual Foodstuffs consumed ", by E. P. Cathcart and 
A. M. T. Murray (London, 1936). 



— 134 — 

working-class families in Glasgow in 1911 and 1933; average income 
per head was about the same in the two periods, account being 
taken of the rise in the cost of living. In 1933, three-quarters of 
the families ate fresh fruit, while none did in 1911. In 1933, three- 
quarters of the families ate leafy vegetables, while less than half did 
in 191 1. More families also ate eggs in the later year, but, on the 
other hand, consumption of fresh milk fell and butter tended to 
be displaced by margarine. 

A more satisfactory comparison of working-class diets in different 
periods can be made for Belgium, where various official budgetary 
studies have been carried out since before the end of the last 
century. According to these surveys,^ the average monthly con- 
sumption of an adult male ^ has changed as follows: 



Table XXI. 

Evolution of Food Consumption of Families of Manual Workers 

IN Belgium. 

(Consumption per adult male per month.) 



Beef 

Pork 

Bacon 

Fat 

Eggs 

Milk 

Butter .... 

Bread 

Potatoes . . . 

Coffee 

Chicory .... 
Sugar 

a Whole milk. 

b Lump sugar. 

c Fresh and frozen meat. 

d Butter and margarine. 



1 891 
Kg. 


1910 
Kg. 


1921 
Kg. 


1929 
Kg. 


1929 as 0/ 
of 1891 


1.84 


I-5I 


2.12 '^ 


1.83 


99-5 


0.20 


0.85 


0-73 


0.68 


338.6 


0.41 


0.76 


0.69 


0.64 


154-8 


0.32 


0.95 


0.78 


0.47 


147.2 


0-37 


0.65 


1.09 


0.84 


255-1 


3-95 


6.91 " 


9.29 


12.09 


318.1 


1.27 


1.38 


1.87'* 


I.91 


149-7 


1.29 


20.22 


19-52 


16.73 


78.5 


9-33 


21.80 


21.48 


18.72 


96.8 


0.45 


0.59 


0.72 


0.57 


126. 1 


0-45 


0.44 


0.62 


0.48 


108.8 


0.20 


0.50 * 


1.50 


1-25 


620.8 



^ See Max Gottschalk: "Budgets ouvriers en 1891 et en 1929", in Revue 
sociologique, 1931, and the " Purchasing Power of Belgian Workers ", in 
International Labour Review, June 1932. 

2 For the scale of nutritive requirements according to age and sex used in these 
studies, see Chapter 5, page 241, scale h (i adult male = 3.5 consumption units). 



— 135 — 

The most notable trends (apart from the remarkable increase in 
sugar consumption) are the continuous rise in the consumption 
of milk, butter and eggs, the steady fall in bread consumption 
and the post-war decline in the consumption of potatoes. Figures 
available for food expenditure show that the percentage spent on 
vegetables other than potatoes doubled between 1891 and 1929 
{from 2.4 to 4.8%) and that considerable amounts were spent on 
fruit in 1929, while none reached the worker's table in 1891. In 
considering these figures (and those given later in this paragraph), 
it should be borne in mind that 1929 (and the preceding years) 
represent a period of relative prosperity, when it might be expected 
that workers would be in a position to buy unusually large amounts 
of the higher-priced foods. There appears, however, little reason 
to doubt that the principal changes shown do indeed reflect genuine 
long-run changes in food-consumption habits. For the superior diet 
of 1929, the Belgian worker had to pay out a smaller fraction of his 
total income than his father paid in 1891. The relative increase in 
the consumption of the protective foods was particularly striking 
for the workers with the lowest incomes, though the absolute 
amount of their consumption remained, of course, lower than that 
of the better-paid workers. 

Recent trends in food habits of industrial workers in Sweden are 
illustrated in the following figures, which show the annual consump- 
tion per consumption unit ^ of families covered by the budgetary 
enquiries of 1914, 1923 and 1933 : 

Table XXII, 

Evolution of Food Consumption of Manual Workers in Sweden. 

(Consumption per consumption unit per year.) 

1914 1923 1933 

Meat kg. 25.9 27.3 27.7 

Full milk litres 196.2 254.2 225.1 

Skim milk litres 68.3 18.1 7.9 

Butter kg. 9.6 11. i 11. 7 

Margarine kg. 6.2 6.4 10.9 

Eggs number 134.2 189. i 241.5 

Bread, flour, etc kg. 135.3 124.5 100.5 

Potatoes kg. 94-5 ii7-2 105.2 

Sugar kg. 25.5 30.3 36.5 

1 For scale used in computing consumption units, see page 241, scale d. 



— 136 — 

Attention is especially directed to the steady increase in the 
consumption of eggs and butter. The consumption of full milk 
was very much higher in 1923 than in 1914, but fell somewhat 
in the next decade. Figures for fruit and vegetable consumption 
are not available, but there is no doubt that much larger quantities 
of these foods are eaten now than before the war. 

Official budgetary enquiries conducted among the working 
population of Oslo before and after the war give the following data 
for annual consumption per consumption unit : ^ 



Table XXIII. 

Evolution of Food Consumption of Manual Workers in Norway. 

(Consumption per consumption unit per year.) 



1912/13 1927/28 

Meat kg. 36.2 55 ' 

Fish kg. 24.9 53 

Full milk litres 86.5 158 

Skim milk litres 103.6 33 

Butter kg. 7.6 3 

Margarine kg. 14.5 23 

Eggs kg. 4.8 II 

Bread, flour, etc kg. 162.3 I35 

Potatoes kg. 79. 5' 98 

Other vegetables kg. 9.4 20 

Fresh domestic fruit kg. 2.8 3 

Oranges, etc kg. 4.2 12 

Sugar kg. 20.4 25 



The superiority of the post-war diet is apparent; especially 
noteworthy is the large increase in the consumption of full 
milk, eggs, vegetables other than potatoes and southern 
fruit. 

The average daily consumption of industrial workers ^ in Germany 
before and after the war has been estimated ^ as follows : 



1 For scale used in computing consumption units, see page 245, scale d. 

2 For scale used in computing consumption units, see page 245, scale k. 

3 From Carl von Tyska: " Ernahrung und Lebenshaltung des Deutschen 
Volkes " (Berlin, 1934). 



— 137 — 

Table XXIV. 

Evolution of Food Consumption of Manual Worki rs 

IN Germany. 

(Consumption per adult male per day.) 

1907/8 1927/28 

Meat grammes go-ioo 126 

Milk litre 1/3-I4 14 

Butter grammes 30 16 

Other fats grammes 10-15 39 

Eggs number l/g-l^ 1^ 

Cheese grammes 10-15 13 

Fish grammes — 18 

Bread grammes 450 307 

Potatoes grammes 500 421 

Vegetables grammes — 85 

Sugar grammes ... 45 

Calories 2,900-3,500 2,866 

The pre-war figures are stated to be less reliable than those 
for 1927/28, which are taken from the official budgetary enquiry. 
Apart from the fall in butter consumption, the changes which are 
suggested by the above table are in the direction of a more varied 
and better balanced diet. 

62. It is clear, from the examples given in the preceding 
paragraph (which do nothing more than confirm the evidence of 
general observation and experience), that the average diet of the 
urban working-classes of Western countries has tended, in post-war 
years, to include larger amounts of the " protective " foods. The 
same is undoubtedly true of Western agricultural communities. 
Thus, there has been a substantial rise in the meat consumption 
of agricultural labourers in France and the United Kingdom since 
the war, and this increase is but one aspect of an all-round improve- 
ment in the dietary. In Belgium, at the beginning of the present 
century, workers lived largely on bread and potatoes; only very 
small quantities of meat and butter were eaten and little or no 
fruit or vegetables. To-day, meat is eaten at least once a day, 
butter twice a day and vegetables daily. ^ According to the farm 



^ Delos: " Traite d'^conomie rurale " (Brussels, 1934). 



— 138 — 

accounts furnished to the Swiss Peasants Union, consumption on 
farm households shows considerable changes since before the war: 
milk consumption per " adult male " rose from 422 litres in 191 1 
to 475 litres in 1932 ; meat consumption from 53 to 64 kg. ; and the 
consumption of potatoes fell from 277 to 224 kg. In Sweden, 
official studies of the food habits of agricultural workers carried out 
in 1920 and 1933 gave the following data on annual consumption 
per "normal household" (3.3 consumption units) ^: 

Table XXV. 

Evolution of Food Consumption of Agricultural Workers 

IN Sweden. 

(Consumption per normal household per year.) 

1920 1933 

Meat kg. 89.2 98.8 

Herrings kg. 28.4 15.5 

Whole milk litres 866.6 895.2 

Skim milk litres 440.6 234.3 

Butter kg. 25.7 23.2 

Margarine kg. 6.6 33.4 

Cheese kg. 5.0 14.6 

Eggs number 264 535 

Bread, flour, etc kg. 562.0 508.5 

Potatoes kg. 597.3 568.5 

Coffee kg. 16.2 17.6 

Sugar kg. 80.5 120.9 

63. Accurate statistical data regarding the food-consumption 
habits of the salaried and professional groups are not readily 
available, but there is no doubt that, during recent decades, in- 
creasing attention has been paid to the nutritive properties of 
different foods and the diet has become better balanced and more 
rational. An interesting illustration of the effect which the spread 
of knowledge concerning the correct principles of nutrition can have 
on food habits is provided in a recent survey ^ of the diet of school- 
boys at Christ's Hospital, an English boarding-school, at different 
dates. The consumption of different foods per boy per day in 1913 
and 1932 is shown below. 



1 For scale used in computing consumption units, see page 245, scale d. 

2 Friend and Schultz: " The School-boy " (London, 1935). 



— 139 — 

Table XXVI. 

Evolution of Food Consumption in an English 
Boarding-school. 

(Consumption per boy per day.) a 

1913 1932 

Kg. Kg. 

Bread o-370 0.270 

Jam, sugar, syrup 0.054 0.112 

Fresh vegetables and fruit 0.070 0.150 

Meat (fresh) 0.170 0.161 

Corned beef — 0.016 

Bacon 0.022 0.016 

Sausages 0.013 0.013 

Fish 0.037 0.039 

Fish-cake — 0.012 

Meat-pie — 0.009 

Eggs — 0.003 

Milk (pints) 0.152 0.337 

Butter 0.035 0.040 

Cheese 0.006 0.006 

a Given in pounds in the original; converted into kilogrammes at the rate of i lb. = 0.4536 kg. 

The outstanding features of this comparison are the increased 
stress placed on the consumption of milk and fresh fruit and 
vegetables, and the consequent decline in bread consumption. 
The 1932 diet is more varied than the pre-war diet and richer 
in all the essential nutritive elements. 

64. It is, perhaps, worth observing at this point that, if the 
preceding analysis makes it clear that the diet of most Western 
countries has improved very considerably during the past twenty 
or thirty years, and if it shows that consumption habits have been 
tending to change along the right lines, it affords nevertheless no 
grounds for complacency. Evidence is adduced later in this report 
to show that, even in those countries where the improvement in 
dietary habits has been most marked, the diet of a substantial 
portion of the population remains deficient in essential nutritive 
elements. A problem of malnutrition unquestionably exists even in 
the countries of highest general planes of living, and in others less 
fortunately placed the evil is more widespread. 

65. The examples quoted in the preceding discussion of 
consumption trends have been largely drawn from the United States, 



— 140 — 

the British Empire, and the States of Western and North- Western 
Europe; Httle has been said about the trend of consumption in 
Central or Eastern Europe. The statistical data relating to these 
countries are too incomplete to permit of any generalisations. 

From such partial indications as are available, it would seem that 
(in the towns, at any rate), the trend of consumption is broadly 
similar to that observed in Western countries — namely, towards a 
greater consumption of fresh fruit, vegetables and dairy products. 
Thus, in Latvia, the fer caput consumption of milk and dairy 
products increased by nearly 30% between 1930 and 1935 ; alcohol 
consumption has fallen very notably. The per caput consumption 
of eggs increased by nearly two-thirds between 1929 and 1934. The 
number of fruit-trees is constantly increasing and so also is the culti- 
vation of vegetables, particularly greenhouse vegetables (tomatoes, 
green salads, lettuce, radishes, etc.), in the neighbourhood of Riga. 
The same tendencies appear to prevail in the other Baltic States. 

In Poland, the consumption of milk and milk products, though 
still low, appears to be increasing ; it is estimated to have risen from 
182 litres per head in 1927-1929 to 227 litres in 1930-1934. In 
Roumania, the consumption of eggs is estimated to have risen from 
about 80 per head in 1926/27 to no per head in 1933; the rise was 
partly due to the loss of export markets. The number of fruit-trees 
has grown in recent years, and the production of vegetables 
increased by nearly a third between 1927 and 1933. Natural 
conditions for these crops are favourable and there is reason to 
believe that great progress could be made along these lines. 

In Yugoslavia, the area under fruit (other than plums) and vine 
and under vegetables has been tending to expand. Statistics 
available for Zagreb suggest that, during the past quinquennium, 
there has been a slight but noticeable increase in per caput consump- 
tion of fruit and vegetables in that city; it is believed that, through 
educational means, the production and consumption of these foods 
by the population in country districts could be greatly increased. 
In Bulgaria, a successful attempt has been made to encourage 
fruit cultivation, and the area under fruit has increased remarkably 
during the past decade. The area under vegetables has also increased 
and per caput consumption appears to have risen by alout 50%. 
At the same time, the consumption of meat in the principal towns 
has shown an upward movement. 



— 141 — 

66. The figures quoted in the preceding paragraph must, 
however, be treated with reserve. In these countries, the peasants 
constitute the bulk of the population and live on what they produce 
themselves. What is consumed on the farms frequently escapes the 
recorded production statistics. Rural habits of consumption change 
less rapidly than urban. They are more dependent on local pro- 
duction, and the food consumed in country districts is often less 
varied, less refined and more bulky than that consumed in the towns. 
Generally, one or at most two staples constitute the bulk of the diet ; 
and, when economic circumstances permit, an increase in consump- 
tion is directed in the first instance towards more of the same foods 
rather than towards different foods. 

The problem of influencing the food habits of the bulk of the 
population of the peasant States of Europe is therefore different 
from that encountered in Western countries. 



D. Factors determining Observed Trends in 
Food-consumption Habits. 

67. The changing content of the diet of Western countries 
is not an accident; it corresponds to a genuine change both in 
physiological requirements and in the power to satisfy them. The 
principal cause of this change is the reduction in the expenditure 
of muscular energy brought about, on the one hand, by the increased 
mechanisation of industry and agriculture and the reduction in 
hours of work and, on the other hand, by the rise in the proportion 
of the population engaged in commerce, trade, clerical work and 
other quasi-sedentary occupations. Simultaneously this mechani- 
sation of production has increased output per head and raised the 
purchasing power of all classes of the population. 

68. By and large, labourers doing heavy manual work obviously 
spend more energy than do machine-tenders or ofiice-workers ; 
the energy spent in work must be provided by food, and it is 
natural that the substitution of machinery for manual work 
should be reflected in changed habits of food consumption. The 
growing mechanisation of industry is so important a part of the 
ordinary experience of our times that it is not necessary to insist 
further on the point. Closely connected with it is the change in the 



— 142 — 

occupational distribution of the gainfully employed population 
of almost all countries. An ever smaller fraction of the population 
is engaged in the primary industries of agriculture, forestry, etc., 
and a constantly increasing proportion in manufacturing, trade, 
transportation, clerical and professional occupations. 

In the United States of America, for example, the percentage of 
gainfully occupied persons of 16 years and over engaged in agricul- 
ture and allied occupations fell from zj.i.2 in 1890 to 21.3 in 1930, 
while the percentage engaged in trade and transportation, clerical 
service, domestic and personal service, public and professional 
service rose from 30.7 to 48.1.^ In the United Kingdom, the per- 
centage of the occupied male population over 10 years of age 
engaged in agriculture is estimated ^ to have fallen from 12 to 7% 
between 1891 and 1931, while the proportion engaged in transport, 
occupations other than general industry, and unoccupied rose from 
34 to 51%. In France, the proportion of the productive population 
engaged in agriculture, forestry and fishing fell from 45 % in 1906 
to 37% in 1931, while the proportion engaged in trade, professional 
and public service rose from 18.7 to 22.3%.^ In Germany, 36.4% 
of the production population were engaged in agriculture in 1895 
and 28.9% in 1933; trade and transport and public and adminis- 
trative service accounted for 17.6% at the end of the century 
and 26.8% in 1933.3 

Not only is agricultural work more arduous than the work 
connected with trade and transportation, clerical service and the 
professions (the relative importance of which increased notably), 
but to a large extent it is performed out of doors at all seasons 
and therefore requires greater food consumption to maintain con- 
stant body temperature as well as to provide more muscular energy. 
Furthermore, the introduction of mechanical methods has tended to 
replace physical labour in agriculture as well as in industry in 
Western countries, so that the average agricultural worker now 
probably expends less muscular energy than did the average 
agricultural worker of forty years ago. 



^ Figures compiled from " Recent Social Trends ", Report of the President's 
Research Committee (New York and London, 1933). 

2 Economist (London), November 3rd, 1934. 

3 Official census records. 



— 143 — 

69. In addition to the growing mechanisation of industry 
and the changed occupational distribution of Western countries, 
other influences have also had their effect on food requirements. 
The improvement in housmg has reduced the amount of food re- 
quired to keep the body at a constant temperature. The increased 
use of automobiles and the development of rapid transport within 
cities and towns had reduced the amount of walking. Less energy 
is spent in moving about, and less food is required to provide the 
energy for this purpose. On the other hand, the growing vogue 
of outdoor sports and physical exercise involves an increase in 
muscular effort and exposure to cold. 

70. Changes in the character of work and life in modern civili- 
sation have resulted, then, in changes in food requirements. It has 
been shown above that the general tendency of consumption has 
been to adapt itself to these changed requirements — less of the staple 
foods of high energy value are eaten, and more of the lighter fruits 
and vegetables and more dairy products. It remains now to indicate 
briefly how this change in food habits was possible. The foods which 
have tended to figure more largely in the diet are more expensive 
than those they have displaced and the modern diet of Western 
countries, better adapted though it is to the changed circumstances, 
undoubtedly costs more than the diet of forty years ago. 

71. To answer this question in detail would be to write the 
economic history of the standard of living — a task which clearly 
cannot be undertaken here. It will suffice to state that the same 
factors which changed food requirements in Western countries 
simultaneously tended to provide the increased purchasing power 
necessary to buy the more expensive diet. The mechanisation of 
industry raised the productivity of labour ; capital formation and 
technical progress made possible a higher output of goods of all 
kinds. The exchange of goods was facilitated by important develop- 
ments in transport, national and international, and in credit systems. 
The growth of international trade — up to 1929 — reduced the import- 
ance of national sources of supply. 

72. This general growth in national income has been reflected 
in higher real wages of almost all classes of industrial workers. 
Moreover, in many parts of the world the State has played an 



— 144 — 

important role in improving the economic position of the lower-income 
sections of the community. Through unemployment insurance, 
minimum-wage laws, old-age pensions and other social services, the 
working-class income of many countries has been substantially 
increased and made more secure against cyclical fluctuations. Where 
this has occurred, it has, no doubt, been an important influence 
making for better nutrition. In a number of countries, indeed, 
the State has directly affected the nutrition of certain sections of 
the population by the direct provision of food, especially to 
school-children. 

73. In addition to the general rise in national income and the 
tendencies making for redistribution of income in favour of the 
working-classes, another factor contributing to better nutrition 
in most Western countries has probably been the decline in the 
average size of the family. Food resources have, in many countries, 
tended to become more plentiful in relation to population. In a 
later chapter ^ the intimate connection between the size of family 
and the standard of nutrition is shown in detail. 

74. The important part which agriculture has played in the 
movement towards better nutrition is reserved for fuller discussion 
in the next chapter. At this point, however, attention may be 
drawn to one fact of special importance. Much of the improvement 
in nutrition which has taken place in the past has been due to a 
gradual or sudden decline in the prices of certain protective foods, 
which has removed them from the class of luxury products avail- 
able only to the wealthy and put them within the monetary reach 
of the mass of consumers. This fall in prices has been due to 
improvements in the art of production, of processing and distri- 
bution, or the deliberate cultivation, through lower prices, of the 
market represented by the lower-income groups of the com- 
munity. 

A few examples may be quoted to illustrate the point. It has been 
shown above that, since the beginning of this century, and particu- 
larly during the past decade, a remarkable increase has occurred in 
the consumption of bananas and citrus fruit in most countries of 
Western Europe. In 1900, a banana was in the nature of a luxury: 



1 See Chapter 5, paragraphs 19 to 24. 



— 145 — 

a delicacy for adults and a reward for good behaviour in children. 
In 1900, a banana was retailed in London for twopence; in 1937, 
for a penny or less. In 1937, the retail price of foods as a whole was 
50 % higher than at the beginning of the century. Imports of 
bananas into the United Kingdom rose from an average of slightly 
more than 2^/2 million bunches a year in the five years 1900-1904 
and about 6^/4 million bunches in the quinquennium immediately 
preceding the war to 15 million bunches in 1929 and over 20 million 
bunches in 1935. 

More recently still, the same phenomenon can be observed for 
grapefruit. As recently as 1930, grapefruit were sold in Geneva 
at 1.20 to 1.50 francs by the few retailers who handled it. To-day 
grapefruit in no way inferior in quality are to be found in every 
grocer's shop at 20 centimes. The retail price of grapefruit in the 
United Kingdom averaged 6d. in 1920-1923, 5^. in 1924-1928, 
4y2<^- in 1929 and ^d. in 1935. Imports into the United Kingdom 
were 1,200 tons in the first period, 13,100 tons in 1924-1928, 
27,150 tons in 1929 and 59,500 tons in 1935. 

75. Butter is another case in point. It has been shown above 
that in most Western countries there has been an upward tendency 
in butter consumption since the beginning of the century and that 
this tendency was much accelerated after 1929. The upward ten- 
dency during the first period must be ascribed partly to the intro- 
duction of factory methods of manufacture with the resulting 
economies of specialisation and large-scale production. The increase 
since 1929 is largely due to the sharp fall in butter prices, which has 
resulted in the substitution of butter for less nutritious but cheaper 
table-fats by the working population of many countries. Between 
1929 and 1934, for example, the retail price of butter in the United 
Kingdom fell by 45 % and per caput consumption increased by 45 %. 
In France, the retail price fell by nearly 25 % and per caput 
consumption increased by 25 %. 

76. In addition to the economic and technical factors responsible 
for the trend towards a more varied diet, the education of consumers 
has also played an important part. Since the development of the 
" new science of nutrition ", public and private agencies in many 
parts of the world have disseminated among a constantly increasing 
section of the population a knowledge of the nutritive values of 

10 



— 146 — 

different foods. This movement has gone farther in some countries 
than in others. It has, perhaps, reached its highest development 
in the United States, where various Governmental agencies, the 
medical profession, private associations and commercial interests 
have for many years been urging the public to eat more fruit, 
more vegetables and to drink more milk on account of their special 
nutritive properties. 

If progress in education in other countries has been less 
sensational, it has nevertheless been substantial. During the past 
decade, the public health authorities of almost all European States 
have laid growing stress on the dissemination of nutritional know- 
ledge among all classes of the population. The efforts of the public 
authorities in this direction have in many cases been ably assisted 
by private organisations. The amount of space which the news- 
papers of the United Kingdom, the British Dominions and the 
Continent of Europe now devote to the discussion of food problems 
and values and to the publication of balanced menus is a striking 
testimony to the growth of public interest in these questions. 

77. Though much has already been accomplished towards the 
education of the consumer, a great deal remains to be done. Every 
fresh enquiry into the nutritional state of a population shows that, 
with the same money expenditure on food, some housewives are 
able to provide a diet of far greater nutritive value than others. 
In all sections of the community, education in the principles of 
nutrition- — adopted to individual circumstances and taking due 
account of dietary habits and preferences — could do much to raise 
the level of nutrition. 

78. The question of education is treated in detail later in this 
report.^ Here it is sufficient to show, by means of a few examples, 
the degree to which ignorance either of the importance of nutrition 
to health or of the principles of correct nutrition continues to 
militate against rational food habits, even in countries where most 
progress has been made. An outstanding case is the use of white 
bread. During the past fifty years, the use of white bread of fine 
texture has become increasingly general among all sections of 
Western communities; in some countries, a social stigma has even 
come to be attached to the consumption of coarser bread. The 



^ See Chapter 6. 



— 147 — 

processes of milling were changed for this and other reasons (for 

example, the fact that white flour keeps better than less highly 

milled flour), in order to remove from the grain anything which 

would give the bread a dark colour or a coarse texture. This involved 

removing the bran and the germ from the grain — precisely those 

portions of the grain richest in mineral matters, as is shown in the 

following table: 

Table XXVII, 

Mineral Composition by Weight of Wheat 
AND Wheat Products.'' 

Ash constituents in percentage of edible portion. 

Whole Wheat Wheat Wheat 

wheat flour (white) bran germ 

Potassium 0-473 0.115 1.217 0.296 

Sodium 0.039 0.060 0-I54 0.722 

Calcium 0.045 0.020 0.120 0.071 

Magnesium .... 0.133 o.oiS 0.511 0.342 

Phosphorus .... 0.423 0.092 1.215 1-050 

Chlorine 0.068 0.074 0.090 0.070 

Sulphur 0.181 0.177 0.247 0.325 

Iron 0.005 o.ooi 0.008 

« From H. C. Sherman: "Chemistry of Food and Nutrition", Appendix B, Table 61 (4th ed., 
New York, 1933). 

When bread is made with flour that has been excessively milled, 
much of the valuable mineral elements of the grain fails to find 
its way into the bread. ^ 

For those able to afford a liberal diet, an abundance of green 
vegetables, fresh fruit and milk are more important and richer 
sources of mineral matter than wheat bran and wheat germ. But 
where dietaries are found to be deficient, minerals are, as a rule, 
among the main nutritive elements which fall below standard ; the 
insistence on white bread keeps total mineral intake from being as 
high as it might be at the same level of food cost. It is of interest 
to observe that, in the United States, there is now, as a result of 
education, a reverse tendency away from white bread and towards 
whole-wheat bread. Moreover, the manufacturers of breakfast 
cereals have in recent years been tending to add the embryo of the 
grain to their products on account of its high nutritive value. 



^ Some authorities, including Sir Edward Mellanby, member of the Mixed 
Committee, hold that the presence of certain mineral salts in large quantities in 
cereals prevents the absorption by the body of other mineral salts ; it would therefore 
be necessary to recognise that the figures given in the above table of the amount 
of mineral matter present do not necessarily reflect accurately the amount which 
can be absorbed by the body. 



— 148 — 

79- Meat provides another important illustration of the scope 
for education. Since the war, there has been an increasing tendency 
for housewives in Western countries to concentrate on the 
" superior " cuts of meat, suitable for grilling or rapid roasting, and 
to neglect the allegedly " inferior " cuts suitable for stewing or 
boiling. It would appear that the nutritive value of these latter 
cuts is in many cases not inferior to that of the " prime " cuts. This 
development is partly due to an increased taste for steaks and 
chops, and partly to the fact that their preparation requires a 
minimum of time. The entry of women into industry and the 
development of interests outside the kitchen has put a premium on 
foods which can be quickly prepared. The concentration of demand 
on the " superior " cuts has inevitably resulted in a rise in their 
price relatively to other cuts; the quantity of the prime cuts on a 
beast does not change with fashion. The figures given below show 
the retail prices of various cuts of meat in three different countries 
before and after the war. 

Table XXVIII. 

Retail Prices of Various Cuts of Meat. 



United States of America. 



Sirloin steak. 
Plate roast . 



July 
1914 



59-5 
28.0 



August 
1934 

(Cents per lb.) a 
72-5 
22. 9 



August 
1936 



84.2 
31-7 



Percentage 

change 
July 1914- 
Aug. 1936 

+ 41-5 
+ 132 



Ribs of beef . . 
Thin flank . . . 
Leg of mutton . 
Breast of mutton 



Great Britain. 

July 1914 



British 



July 1936 
(Pence per lb.) a 
10 131/2 

6^2 7 

10I/2 15 

61/2 jVi 



Percentage change 
July 1914-1936 



+ 35-0 
+ 7-7 
+ 42-9 
+ II-5 



a I lb. 



France. 

July July 

I9I4 1935 

(Francs per kg.) 

Beefsteak 3.80 20.65 

Flanks 1.70 7.10 

Filet of veal 3.60 21.10 

Breast 2.20 9.40 

= 0.4536 kg. 



Percentage change 
July 1914-1935 



+ 443 

+ 318 

+ 486 

+ 327 



— 149 — 

The table shows that prices of " prime cuts " have risen much 
more than those of other cuts. It is clear that consumers' preferences 
have changed ; and that with the same money expenditure on meat 
it is possible to get more food value than is now obtained through 
concentrating on the " prime " cuts. 

80. As a final example of the harmful effects of prejudice and 
ignorance on food habits, the case of skimmed milk is worth men- 
tioning. Before the war, considerable quantities of skimmed milk 
were consumed by the industrial working population of European 
cities. Since the war, more full milk has been consumed, and this is, 
of course, desirable. But a prejudice appears to have developed 
against skimmed milk in many countries, which has resulted in a 
decline in its consumption even by those not able to afford the 
more expensive full milk. In Sweden, for example, budgetary 
studies of industrial city and town workers show that the average 
consumption of whole milk rose from 194 to 223 litres per consump- 
tion unit between 1914 and 1933 — an increase of 29 litres — while 
average consumption of skimmed milk fell from 68 to 8 litres — a 
decline of 60 litres. The same is true of other countries. 

It is highly desirable that the consumption of whole milk should 
increase and every effort should, of course, be made to accomplish 
that end. But it is unfortunate that the prejudice against skimmed 
milk has, in certain cases, resulted in a reduction of total milk 
consumption. The special nutritive value of milk lies in its mineral 
and protein content, and this is in no way reduced through the 
removal of the butter-fat. On the contrary, pint for pint, skimmed 
milk contains more calcium, more phosphorus, more sulphur, more 
iron and more protein (though, of course, fewer calories) than full 
milk. Skimmed milk is much cheaper than whole milk, as the 
presence of the butter-fat raises the price, and could fall well within 
the reach of many who do not now buy full milk in adequate 
quantities. Even greater advantage is, perhaps, to be obtained 
from increased consumption of dried skimmed milk, either in 
cooking or as an addition to liquid whole milk. From the point 
of view of the consumer, there is no waste attached to dried milk: 
it is not perishable and its price is not raised through high distri- 
bution costs. A widespread understanding of the properties and 
uses of dried and skimmed milk would be of great advantage to the 
nutrition of the community. 



— 150 — 

8i. In concluding this summary of the factors responsible 
for current trends in dietary habits, reference should perhaps 
be made to the decline in the consumption of alcoholic spirits. The 
following table shows, in litres of pure alcohol, the officially esti- 
mated per caput consumption of distilled spirits in various countries 
in selected years since the beginning of the present century: ^ 

Table XXIX. 

Per caput Consumtion of Distilled Spirits. 

1900 1905 igio 1913 1918 1920 1925 1930 1933 

Denmark 7.02 6.34 5.65 4.81 1.12 1.54 2.07 2.14 2.19 

France 4.58 3.52 3.54 3.92 ... 2.01 2.70 2.80 2.61 

Germany 4.40 3.70 2.80 2.80 0.60 0.70 0.99 0.75 0.77 

Italy 0.62 0.77 0.70 0.67 0.48 1. 01 0.63 0.44 0.28 

Belgium 4.72 2.83 2.58 2.78 ... 1.25 1.44 1.59 1.37 

Netherlands .... 4. 11 3.69 • 2.63 2.60 1.60 2.58 i.io 1.31 1.21 

Norway 1.58 1.25 1.61 1.82 ... ... 0.25 1.15 0.96 

United Kingdom . . 2.88 2.44 1.50 1.74 0.80 1.22 0.83 0.65 0.56 

United States . . . 2.46 2.68 2.70 2.84 1.66 0.42 a a a 

Sweden 4.35 3-55 3-3o 3-45 0.60 3.00 2.20 2.40 2.45 

3 Figures not available. 

In almost all cases, the post-war figures are much lower than 
the pre-war. There seems little reason to doubt that the decline 
in the consumption of spirits has played a part of appreciable 
importance in the movement towards better nutrition. Its effects 
on nutrition have been both indirect and direct: indirect, through 
making purchasing power available for consumption of more 
nutritious items of diet (though it must be pointed out that the 
increased taxation of spirits in post-war years has made this 
influence less important than appears from an examination of the 
above table) and through helping to raise standards of labour 
efficiency; and direct, because the light refreshments, such as fruit, 
fruit-juice, ice-cream, used in place of distilled liquor, frequently 
have special claims to nutritional virtue. 



^ Annuaire statisfique de la France, I935- 



151 — 



Chapter 2. 

AGRICULTURE AND NUTRITION. 



A. Introductory. 

T. In the previous chapter, it has been shown that during the 
past generation certain well-defined changes have taken place in 
the food-consumption habits of Western countries. The average 
diet has become increasingly diversified and in consequence better 
balanced. Consumption of fruit, vegetables and dairy products 
has almost everywhere shown a marked upward tendency, while 
the consumption of cereals has tended to decline and, in countries 
where consumption was fairly high, the average fer caput 
consumption of meat has also fallen. 

2. The question now arises: How has agriculture adapted itself 
to these changes in demand ? It is hardly necessary to insist on the 
importance of this question. The success of the present nutrition 
initiative would involve an appreciable change in the food-consump- 
tion habits of all countries. This change will, of course, not take 
place in a day ; it will occur gradually and (it is to be hoped) conti- 
nuously, as the newer knowledge of nutrition is disseminated over 
wider groups of the population, as the general level of income rises, 
and as special action is taken by the State or private associations 
to improve the nutrition of particular groups of the population. 
But, even though the change in food habits may be gradual, it may 
none the less be profound ; and it is therefore necessary to consider 
the capacity of agriculture to adapt itself to the changes in demand 
which would result from the general adoption of food habits more 
closely in line with the teachings of the modem science of nutrition. 
No one would desire that this nutrition endeavour should introduce 
new elements of instability and maladjustment into a world which 
can already count too many; least of all would it be desired to 
introduce factors of instability into the agricultural world, which 



— 152 — 

is only now beginning to recover from long and difficult years of 
depression. 

3. Fortunately for the purpose of this analysis, the changes 
which have already taken place in food habits (and which have 
been traced in detail in the previous chapter) are, for the most part, 
changes in the right direction. The movement towards better nutri- 
tion does not, therefore, involve the initiation of new and revolu- 
tionary processes, but rather the acceleration and facilitation of 
processes already in being. Valuable light will therefore be thrown 
on the capacity of agriculture to adapt itself to such changes in 
food habits as are needed in the future by examining the part which 
agriculture has played in the changes which have taken place in 
the past. 

4. In the section which follows, an attempt is made to state, 
in general terms, the nature of the problem of agricultural adapta- 
tion, and in Section C an analysis is made of some of the obstacles 
to adaptation. The role of agriculture in improving nutrition is, 
however, positive as well as merely adaptive; accordingly, Sec- 
tion D is devoted to a summary of recent changes in agricultural 
methods — in order to bring out some of the major influences tending 
to increase and improve the supply of foods. Finally, in Section E 
an attempt is made to assess, in general terms, the effects on 
agriculture of the present movement towards better nutrition. 



B. The Problem of Agricultural Adaptation. 

i.. 

5. The increased production and the changes in its structure 
which constitute the counterpart of the shifts in food consumption 
traced in the preceding chapter originate in part on the side of 
supply and in part on the side of demand. In some cases, the 
initiative has come from the producers, who developed the output 
of certain foods, improved their quality and proceeded to create 
a market through advertising, price reductions, etc. In other cases, 
the initiative has come from the side of consumers: as a result of 
changes in taste or requirements, certain foods were increasingly 
demanded, their production became relatively profitable and 
agriculture adapted itself to this circumstance. 



— 153 — 

6. If accurate historical statistics of supplies and of prices were 
available, an attempt could be made to measure the relative 
influence of the demand and the supply factors in particular cases; 
but, as these are not generally available, it must be sufficient here 
to indicate the nature and complexity of the problem. One of the 
most striking examples of changes in consumption originating 
apparently on the side of increased and improved supplies is that 
of citrus fruits. Production of these fruits was greatly intensified 
and extended in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, 
the producers carried out an active campaign to educate the public 
to the nutritive value of orange juice, etc. ; demand was stimulated, 
and this led to a further development of production. In the pre- 
ceding chapter, reference has also been made to the effect of 
increased supplies on prices and consumption of bananas. At the 
beginning of the present century, only Canary bananas were im- 
ported into the United Kingdom; they retailed at about 2d., the 
supply was limited and they were sold only in the more expensive 
fruit-shops and not consumed at all by the masses. About 1901, 
with the development of production in the West Indies, large 
quantities of bananas were imported from that source. Demand, 
however, was lacking, as the populace had little experience of 
bananas and had not acquired a taste for them. In consequence, 
they were sold for a time at the unrenumerative price of 2 for i ^^. , 
with the result that a general market was developed, taste for the 
fruit grew and demand rapidly increased. In Section D of this 
chapter, many examples are given of improvements in agricultural 
methods, which reduced the cost of producing food, improved their 
quality and brought about increased consumption. 

7. Such examples make it clear that the changes in consumption 
habits traced in the preceding paragraph had their origin, in part, 
in changes in agricultural enterprise and methods. It would, 
therefore, not be legitimate to argue that the changes in production 
which formed the counterpart of the changing structure of food 
consumption represents exclusively the successful adaptation of 
agriculture to changed conditions of demand; and that policies 
designed to change food habits need not therefore concern them- 
selves with the capacity of agriculture to make the necessary adap- 
tation of production. Nor would it be legitimate to lose sight of 
the fact that the profound changes in conditions of food supply 



— 154 — 

and demand which occurred during the past decades involved 
certain agricultural systems in serious dislocation. Indeed, the 
increased competition of non-European agriculture imposed an 
extraordinary burden of adjustment and adaptation. In view 
of the difficulties in the way of adaptation (difficulties which are 
analysed in the next section of this chapter), it must be regarded as 
surprising that agricultural systems were able to adjust themselves 
as well as they have done ; and that they have been able to reorien- 
tate production along lines which permitted the notable improve- 
ment in nutritional levels recorded in the previous chapter to be 
accomplished. This adjustment, however, was not without its costs 
and difficulties. Individual producers who were faced with increased 
competition or with a shrinking market for certain products, and 
who were unable for one reason or another to turn to other crops 
for which demand was expanding, were placed in a position ot great 
difficulty and hardship. When demand declined or prices fell to 
unrenumerative levels, the investment of capital and of long and 
arduous hours of labour failed to yield a return commensurate 
with that obtained in other occupations. The reorientation of 
production along new lines involved the loss of existing capital 
fixtures, the introduction of a new routine of cultivation, a break 
with the old methods. Even where capital was available to facilitate 
the process of adaptation, the adaptation itself not infrequently 
created new disequilibria. One example will suffice as an illustration. 
To meet the increased competition of overseas grain during the last 
quarter of the nineteenth century, mechanical methods were widely 
adopted in grain production in certain parts of Europe. The dis- 
placement of the horse by the machine during the early twentieth 
century led to a reduction in the demand for oats and other fodder 
crops and involved the producers of these crops in difficulties; many 
peasants, unable to sell their fodder crops, returned to more 
primitive methods of cultivation. On the other hand, there seems 
little doubt that the relative abundance of fodder crops resulting 
in part from this displacement was one of the factors stimulating 
animal husbandry and poultry-farming and so contributed indi- 
rectly to the increased consumption of the products of these 
branches of agriculture. 

8. The brief considerations of the preceding paragraph are, 
perhaps, sufficient to make it clear that those whose task is to 



— 155 — 

safeguard the interests of agriculturists may reasonably ask that 
the effort of agricultural adjustment and adaptation which the 
present movement towards better nutrition involves should be 
clearly defined; and that, at the same time as steps are taken to 
raise nutritional levels, steps should also be taken to facilitate the 
adaptation of agriculture to the changes in the structure of demand 
which may result. 

9. In attempting to define the effort of adaptation required of 
agriculture, particular stress must be laid on two points. The first 
is that nutrition policy does not involve a rapid transformation 
in the existing structure of national agricultural sy sterns. The 
changes in demand which occur will of necessity be slow and 
gradual ; the reorientation of production will be a long-run and not a 
revolutionary process. The second point is that, as nutrition policy 
moves towards its objective of an adequate diet for all, there will 
be an increase in the demand for all classes of agricultural products. 
Some groups of foods will, no doubt, benefit more than others; and 
it is likely that the demand for the protective foods will rise more 
rapidly than the demand for those consumed chiefly for their high 
energy value. 

But, notwithstanding the considerable improvements effected 
in recent decades, the problem is not merely one of the qualitative 
composition of diets. For those fortunately placed whose general 
level of consumption is high, considerations of quality and compo- 
sition of diet are, of course, of primary importance; and for these, 
improved nutrition means principally an increase in the consump- 
tion of protective foods. It is an unfortunate fact, however, that 
under-nourishment in the absolute sense still exists. Not only is it 
endemic in parts of Asia and Africa, where the general level of 
national income is low; it is found in Europe and America, and 
even in countries with the highest levels of income. 

Clearly, the first aim of nutrition policy must be to ensure that 
all sections of the population have enough calories. It would be 
folly to allow the legitimate stress which is placed on malnutrition 
to obscure the existence of an equally real and perhaps even more 
pressing problem of under-nutrition. If man cannot live by bread 
alone, neither can he live by butter without bread. Energy require- 
ments must first be met if full benefit is to be derived from the 
protective foods. Exact data on existing deficiencies in energy 



- 156 - 

requirements are not available, but there is no doubt that a consider- 
able increase in the consumption of foods of high energy value 
— such as cereals, vegetable oils and, in certain countries, sugar — 
would be required in order to bring the calorie content of the diet 
of certain sections of the population of a very large number of 
countries up to standards of adequacy. For a long time to come, it 
appears likely that, taking the world as a whole, the increase in the 
demand for the energy-bearing foods among these population 
groups will — if nutrition policy achieves its objective — much more 
than counterbalance the fall in demand for them which accompanies 
the qualitative improvement in the diet of those who are already 
securing an adequate quota of calories. 

10. Still other factors will tend to increase the demand for cereals 
in the future. One is the growth of population, which is still conti- 
nuing in many countries. Not only does this growth involve an 
absolute increase in the energy requirements of the world as a whole, 
but it also tends to offset the relative reduction in the demand for the 
energy-bearing foods which will accompany an improvement in 
nutritional levels in countries where the level is already quite high. 
Moreover, sight should not be lost of the fact that increased con- 
sumption of the protective foods of animal origin will involve an 
increased use of cereals as animal feeding-stuffs. 

11. It is clear, therefore, that nutrition policy by no means 
requires a drastic shift from the production of energy-bearing foods 
to the production of protective foods. Nor does it require that 
agriculture should produce protective foods in advance of the 
market — i.e., before a demand at renumerative prices exists. 
What is required is rather that, as the movement towards better 
nutrition grows and spreads and as the demand for the protective 
foods in countries where the general plane of living is already high 
increases, national agricultural systems should gradually adapt 
themselves to the changing structure of demand and concentrate 
an increasing proportion of their productive resources on the protec- 
tive foods. The best proof that agriculture is able to adapt itself 
to the expansion in demand for the protective foods lies in the fact 
that it is already doing so. The new tendencies in agricultural 
production in many countries are a clear illustration of this fact; 
in the paragraphs which follow, statistics are quoted to show the 



— 157 — 

extent to which certain national agricultural systems have been 
tending to increase their output of foods of high protective value. 

12. A striking example is the increased attention which has 
been paid to dairy-farming in recent decades. In this field, Denmark 
provides the classic illustration of the adaptation of agriculture to a 
new situation. Formerly a cereal-exporting country, Denmark 
deliberately shifted the basis of her system to dairying and animal 
husbandry when the overseas competition in cereals rendered their 
production for export unprofitable in the eighties of the last 
century. The success with which this transformation was accom- 
plished is so well known that it is unnecessary to quote details. 
It was facilitated by the high standard of education and spirit of 
co-operation among farmers, and its success was partly due to 
favourable natural conditions and to the close proximity of 
Hamburg and London, the main consuming markets. One aspect 
of the transformation is, however, worth stressing: far from this 
change in the structure of the Danish agricultural system resulting 
in a reduction in cereal cultivation, its effect was, on the contrary, 
to create a new demand for cereals (for animal feed) and so increase 
output. This is illustrated in Table I below: 

Table I. 

Evolution of Danish Agriculture.'' 

A. Dairying. 

1870 

Number of dairy cows 808,000 

Average milk yield per cow (kg.) 1.35° 

Total milk production (million kg.) .... 1,100 

Butter exports (million kg.) 10 

B. Arable Farming ; Harvest. 

(Yearly average in millions of crop units). 

1880-1884 1910-1914 1929-1933 

Corn 23.6 29.1 41.8 

Roots and potatoes 1.8 18.6 30.5 

Grass 15. i 21.9 34.2 

Total 40.5 69.6 106.5 

a Data taken from the Agricultural Council, Denmark — Agriculture (Copenhagen, 1935). 



1900 


1934 


,075,000 


1,716,000 


2,200 


3,200 


2,500 


5.400 


61 


150 



- 158 - 

In 1933, 50% of the cultivated area of Denmark was under 
grain. The percentage is among the highest in Europe and compares 
with 45% in 1 88 1. These figures make it clear that the encourage- 
ment of animal husbandry is by no means inconsistent with the 
desire to maintain a large proportion of land under cereals in order 
to be able to feed the domestic population in the event of a national 
emergency. Further reference is made to this important point in 
the following section. 

13. If the example of Denmark is classic, it is by no means 
unique. Table II below shows that there has been a universal 
advance in milk production during the past decade. 

Table II, 

Estimated Milk Production per Annum. "^ 

Average production per annum of milk. 
(In millions of litres.) 

1925-1929 1930-1934 1934 or 1933 

Austria 2,010* 2,480*^ 2,540 

Belgium 2,760 2,970 3.050 

Denmark 4.300 5,200 5,000 

Finland 2,210 2,310 2,450 

France 13.370 14.320 15.230 

Germany 19,240 23,160 23,300 

Netherlands 3.800 "^ 4.410 4.690 

Norway 1.230 1.320 1,360 

Poland 8,500 9.050 9,020 

Sweden ....... 4,020 4.510 4,5io 

Switzerland 2,710 2,740 2,800 

United Kingdom. . . 6,140 6,700 7.140 

Canada 6,410 6,980 7,200 

United States .... 42,970 46,120 46,030 

Australia 3,640 4.570 5,210 

New Zealand .... 2,900 3,920 4,280 

a Lea^e of Nations: " The Problem of Nutrition ", Vol. IV — " Statistics of Food Production, Consump- 
tion and Prices ", documentation prepared by the International Institute of Agriculture (Geneva, 1936). 

b 1923 and 1927. c 1930 and 1934. <^ Rough estimate based on 1921-1930 daily herd. 

14. The tendency for agricultural systems to pay increasing 
attention to dairy-farming is further reflected in the increase in the 
proportion of dairy cows in herds, which is shown in Table III 
below. 



— 159 — 

Table III. 

Proportion of Dairy Cows in Herds." 



Australia . . . 
Canada .... 
Denmark ... 
France .... 
Germany * . . 
United Kingdom 
United States . , 



a Based on data published in Imperial Economic Committee: " Cattle and Beef Survey " (London, 1934). 



I9I3 

% 


1923 

% 


1933 

% 


18.0 


173 


243 


41.2 


39-6 


42.3 


53-2'^ 


51-3 "^ 


56.5 


52.7 


531 


54-2 


53-9 


56-2'^ 


56.8 


38.7 


44.1'^ 


42.2 


36.7^ 


34-5'^ 


38.6 



b 1932. 
c 1914. 
d 1924. 



e Percentage of all cows to total cattle. 
/ 1909-1913. 



15. Another striking example of the newer tendencies in 
agricultural production to which attention may well be drawn is 
the growth of poultry-breeding. Table IV below shows the changes 
in the number of hens in certain European countries since 1913 : 



Table IV. 

Number of Hens.'* 

(In millions.) 

1913 1926 

Austria — 5.7 

Belgium 12. i* — 

Denmark 15.0 '^ 18.5 

Germany 64.0 ' 67.8 

Great Britain and Northern 

Ireland 38.3 48.3 

Irish Free State 14.2 16.5 

Netherlands 9.8 * 15.0 

Yugoslavia — 13.7 

a Data furnished by International Institute of Agriculture. 

b 1910. c 1929. d 1914. e 1933. / 1912. g 1924. 



g 



1930 


I934 


5-9 


8.7 


18.2'' 





22.1 ^ 


26.6 


88.1 


85.9 


61.9 


78.5 


18.2 


16.0 


24.6 


34-5 


16.3 


17.9 



16. The increase in the output of eggs was even greater than 
these figures suggest, as there has been a steady increase in the 
number of eggs per la5ning hen. 



1926 


1934 


2,354 


2,070 


1,140 


1,478 " 


4,6oo '^ 


6,200 


1,527 


3,io8 


215 


414 


412 


536 


1,159 


1,136 


295 


440'^ 


1,600 


2,250 



— 160 — 

Table V. 

Production of Eggs.'* 

(In millions.) 

1913 

Belgium 960 

Denmark 796 * 

Germany 4,100 

England and Wales .... 944 

Scotland 177 

Northern Ireland — 

Irish Free State 816 

Switzerland 203 

Yugoslavia — 

a Data furnished by International Institute of Agriculture. 
6 1914. c 1927. d 1933. 

17. In some ways, the most striking of the newer tendencies in 
agriculture is the recent development of horticultural production 
in all parts of the world. In all countries, the past decades have 
witnessed a remarkable expansion in the commercial production 
of fruit and vegetables. Thus, in Germany, the area under market 
gardens rose from 116,000 hectares in 1913 to 137,000 hectares in 
1927 and 158,000 hectares in 1934. In England and Wales, the area 
devoted to vegetables rose from 74,540 hectares in 1925 to 92,550 
in 1930/31 1 — an increase of about 25%. In France, market- 
garden crops covered 325,000 hectares in 1927 and 371,000 hectares 
in 1934. In the Netherlands, the total area of family allotments and 
of market gardens producing for sale increased from 49,740 hec- 
tares in 1913 to 62,185 hectares in 1926 and 67,620 hectares in 1934. 
In the United States, the area under vegetable crops for sale 
doubled from 1919 to 1929, rising from 576,390 to 1,137,800 
hectares. 2 

18. The extension of the area of cultivation of citrus fruits and 
the improvements effected in their quality have been mentioned 
above. Until about 1880, consumption was low and production was 
limited to Portugal, the Portuguese islands and the Mediterranean 
littoral. About the year mentioned, the United States and West 



1 I.e., from about 185,000 to about 230,000 acres. 

2 I.e., from about 1,450,000 to about 2,850,000 acres. 



— i6i — 

Indies became large producers, chiefly for American consumption; 
Mediterranean production continued to expand. During the past 
thirty years, production has been extended to the southern hemi- 
sphere ; Brazil, the Argentine and South Africa have greatly extended 
the area under citrus fruit and have supplied the European market 
with the " summer orange ", thus helping to reduce the seasonal 
fluctuation in the consumption of this important fruit. Production 
for domestic requirements has also been extended in South-Eastern 
China, Southern Japan and Australia. It is worth stressing the fact 
that the widening of the area under cultivation has not been at the 
expense of the traditional producers. On the contrary, exports 
of oranges from Spain rose from 817,000 dozen in 1886 to 2,600,000 
in 1900 and 11,000,000 dozen in 1930; Italian exports of both oranges 
and lemons were twice "as high in 1930 as in 1900. More recently, 
Palestine has greatly increased its importance as a producer; the 
area under oranges and lemons increased from an average of 
5,340 hectares in 1925/26-1930/31 to 17,500 hectares in 1933/34, 
and exports of all citrus fruits rose from 2.7 million boxes in 1929/30 
to 7.3 million boxes in 1934/35. 

The adaptability of production is illustrated, not only in this 
expansion, but also in the change which occurred in the South of 
France in the latter part of the nineteenth century from the 
cultivation of oranges for fruit (which could no longer compete 
successfully with the increased imports from Spain) to the special- 
ised cultivation of orange-blossoms and other blossoms for manu- 
facture into perfume. During the past ten years, the increased 
consumption of fruit in France and the increased competition of 
synthetic perfumes have resulted in a marked tendency towards 
the growing of peach and apricot trees in this region. 

19. In most countries of the temperate zone, the area under 
orchard and the production of fruit have been greatly increased 
in recent years. Moreover, important improvements have been 
effected in methods of production and marketing, and the quantity 
of commercially marketable fruit has risen more rapidly than the 
frequently imperfect data available for area under cultivation 
or total production suggest. The increase in the production of 
marketable fruit has made great headway in the United States, the 
Argentine and the British Dominions, but also in the United 
Kingdom and on the continent of Europe farm orchards are being 

11 



— l62 — 

steadily displaced by commercial orchards planted with improved 
varieties.^ The statistics available do not permit of an accurate 
summary of the extent of the recent changes, but the trend towards 
increased fruit production is very general. Thus, in England and 
Wales, the area under fruit was 275,000 acres in 1925 and 322,000 
acres in 1935.^ Not only has production been extended in Kent, the 
traditional garden of England, but new land has been brought under 
orchard in East Anglia and other parts of the southern half of 
England. In France, the production of fruit (excluding table grapes 
and production in private gardens) is estimated to have increased 
from less than 300,000 tons before 1927 to over 600,000 tons after 
1933. In the Netherlands, the area under commercial fruit rose 
from 71,000 acres in 1925 to 87,000 in 1934,^ and the area under 
market gardens increased from 62,000 to 75,000 acres.* In Norway, 
the number of fruit-trees is officially estimated to have increased 
by more than 10% between 1924 and 1934. In Roumania, the 
increase in recent years has been even more striking. 

20. In certain countries of Central and South-Eastern Europe, 
the State has intervened to help and accelerate the process ; and it 
is worth examining briefly the measures taken in one or two of 
these countries. In Bulgaria, for example, the difficulties encoun- 
tered in selling cereals abroad led first to an increase of the produc- 
tion of tobacco for export; but, when tobacco prices fell during the 
recent depression, the peasants turned more and more to the produc- 
tion of other high- value products, principally vegetables and fruit. 
The initiative in this change in the structure of production lay 
with the producers and exporters, but since 1933 it has been 
encouraged by the authorities. Regulations have been issued for the 
control of the quality, state of preservation, freshness, packing, etc., 
of fruit and vegetables destined for export ; and the success of these 
measures is witnessed in the figures for exports. Between 1929 and 
1935, the quantity of fresh grapes exported rose from 2,100 tons 
to 34,000 tons; dried plums increased from 336 tons in 1927 to 
9,900 tons in 1935; tomato exports rose from 195 tons in 1931 to 



1 See Imperial Economic Committee: "Fruit" (London, 1936). 

2 I.e., from about 110,000 to about 130,000 hectares. 

3 I.e., from about 28,000 to about 35,000 hectares. 
* I.e., from about 25,000 to about 30,000 hectares. 



— i63 — 

2,500 tons in 1935, apple exports increased from 219 tons in 1930 
to 4,900 tons in 1935. The fact that this development took place 
in so short and unfavourable a period is a striking testimony 
to the capacity of agriculture to adapt itself to changed con- 
ditions of demand. 

Hungary affords another interesting illustration of State 
assistance in fruit production. In 1929, a National Committee of 
Pomology was created at the Ministry of Agriculture to decide 
what types of fruit could be economically produced in the various 
parts of the country. The State established three public nurseries 
which distributed young trees, and regional orchards were estab- 
lished under State supervision in all parts of the country, where 
courses in fruit-tending were given to farmers and labourers. 
The Ministry of Agriculture, moreover, granted from 1933 to 1936 
subventions and loans for the establishment of orchards to land- 
owners of 20 to 50 jochs; and fruit-packing courses were also held. 
An ordinance of 1934 grants tax exemption for a certain period to 
newly planted orchards. The number of fruit-trees in Hungary is 
estimated to have increased from 14.2 millions in 1929 to 15.3 
millions in 1935; the increase was particularly notable for 
plum-trees, peach-trees and apple-trees. 

21. The success of these various Government measures, designed 
to assist the adaptation of agriculture and improve agricultural 
methods, suggests that the reorientation of agricultural production 
towards an increase in the supply of protective foods might be 
further materially assisted by suitable State action. In particular, 
attention may be drawn to schemes adopted in some countries for 
recording the results obtained by farmers; the milk yield per cow, 
the efficient conversion of feeding- stuffs into pork or beef, egg yields, 
etc. The adoption of such schemes on a local or even parochial 
basis, especially where combined with competitions and substantial 
prizes, may stimulate the interest of individual farmers in the impro- 
vement of agricultural methods and help to accelerate and spread the 
application of improved methods, once they have been discovered. 

C. Obstacles to Agricultural Adaptation. 

22. The problem of agricultural adaptation has been posted 
in the previous section. It has been argued that, if nutrition 



— 164 — 

policy moves forward on a broad front, there will result an increase 
in the demand for all classes of agricultural products — energy- 
bearing foods, protective foods and fodder crops alike. It has been 
suggested that, in countries where the general level of consumption 
is already relatively high, the success of the present nutrition endea- 
vour is likely to entail a relatively greater increase in the demand 
for the protective foods than for the energy-bearing foods. The pro- 
blem of agricultural adaptation in these countries may therefore 
be regarded as that of gradually reorientating production along the 
lines of a greater emphasis on the output of protective foods. On 
account of their perishable nature, many of these foods cannot enter 
into international trade, and a large increase in consumption is 
dependent upon domestic production. Statistics have been quoted 
to show that the current tendency in agricultural production in 
many countries is to pay increasing attention to dairying, poultry- 
breeding and horticultural production, and thus to increase the 
supplies of these highly nutritive products. 

23. It is necessary to recognise, however, that there are 
obstacles in the way of the desired reorientation of agricultural 
production. The present section is therefore devoted to the enumera- 
tion of some of these obstacles and to a description of the efforts 
which have been made in the past to overcome them. Those 
obstacles to adaptation which have their origin rather in State 
policy than in natural conditions, however, are reserved for 
consideration in Chapter 4. 

24. Perhaps the most serious lie in natural factors — soil and 
climate — and in technical organisation, which in some cases 
tends to limit the degree to which changes in production can be 
brought about. The importance of these factors in determining 
the character of the foods at present being produced differs greatly 
in the various parts of the world. Natural and technical factors 
are probably less important in Western Europe than in certain 
overseas countries. In the latter, vast areas of land are available; 
wheat is produced at relatively low cost through extensive methods, 
and cattle can (in the southern hemisphere) graze on open land 
throughout the greater part of the year, thus minimising the cost of 
handling, housing and feeding stock. The types of cultivation in 
these countries producing for export can be presumed to reflect 



- i65 - 

broadly the comparative efficiency and cheapness with which 
the different crops can be produced in the given natural conditions. 
These natural conditions limit the alternative opportunities. 
To take but one example, the possibility of turning from wheat to 
other crops in Western Canada is limited by the climate. The long 
cold winter, lasting for about seven months, necessitates the hou- 
sing of live-stock ; green pasture lasts for only a few months and may 
be destroyed by drought. But, even in Western Canada, there has 
been a tendency to produce more live-stock and more poultry and 
vegetables in recent years — a tendency which has been reinforced 
by the partial closing of foreign markets for wheat. 

25. In most of Western Europe, natural conditions frequently 
play a less important part in determining the character of produc- 
tion, which is, indeed, sometimes ill adapted to the nature 
of the soil, the climate and the technical conditions of cultivation, 
such as the size of the farm. Here the obstacles to the adaptation 
of agriculture to the new consumption trends have been partly the 
special mentality of the peasant, partly the form of existing capital 
investment and partly the protection afforded to certain types of 
produce. Agriculture throughout a large part of Europe is less a 
form of economic enterprise than a way of life: in this respect, it 
differs radically from some overseas countries. Attachment to 
the soil and a tradition of cultivation is handed down from one 
generation to another; the peasant is frequently conservative 
in his outlook. Once the production of an individual farm is planned, 
it is difficult to change, and change may involve new capital expen- 
diture and the partial loss of existing capital fixtures. Furthermore, 
individual producers may at times be unaware of general market 
trends and have no inducement to concentrate on one crop rather 
than on another. In this field. Governments have an important task 
to perform in informing producers of the trends in consumption 
and in facilitating the necessary changes in production. 

26. Special importance must, moreover, be attached to the 
part which the Agricultural Co-operative Organisation can play 
(and has already played) in this connection. It would, indeed, be 
difficult to exaggerate the contribution of these organisations to- 
wards the adaptation and improvement of agriculture and conse- 
quently to improved nutrition. The shift in the basis of Danish 



— i66 — 

agriculture referred to in the preceding section would scarcely 
have been possible had it not been for the high spirit of co-operation 
among the farmers of that country. " Beginning with the care and 
feeding of stock, the upkeep of cattle-sheds, etc., the producers 
assume very strong obligations by adhering to the rules and regula- 
tions of the co-operative dairy to which they belong. But this is not 
enough. The incessant improvement of the best methods must rest 
on increasingly exact observations which call for special knowledge 
and sometimes costly apparatus. Further, such observations must 
be recorded and examined. All this constitutes a task for which 
producers were not long in recognising that they had neither time 
nor always the necessary qualifications. They therefore delegated 
it to ' inspection societies ', the first of which was founded in 1895. 
To-day there are several hundred such societies, all created and 
financed on co-operative principles by the producers themselves. 
It is thanks to these societies that it has been possible gradually 
to eliminate diseased cattle, to select the breeds and animals with 
the highest yield, to improve feeding-stuffs, etc. In a general 
way, their activities, often closely combined with those of the 
stock-breeding co-operative societies, have been and still are decisive 
for all technical progress of dairy production." ^ 

Through scientific research and experiment, through improvement 
of animal and vegetable species, through improvements in methods 
of production, through training and education, through the encou- 
ragement of emulation and through disciplinary action and super- 
vision, the agricultural co-operatives of many countries are doing 
much to orientate production along certain lines and to improve and 
guarantee the quality of the products placed on the market.^ 

27. The evidence goes to show, however, that farmers in 
general have adapted themselves not unreadily to changes in 
demand with considerable rapidity when these changes have 
expressed themselves in a modification of the relative prices of 
different types of agricultural products. When such price changes 
are checked by compensatory Governmental measures, the induce- 
ment to the farmer to alter his production is removed and nutritional 



^ See International Labour Office : " Workers' Nutrition and Social Policy " 
(Geneva, 1936), page 163. 

^ See International Labour Office: " The Co-operative Movement and Better 
Nutrition" (Geneva, 1937). 



— 167 — 

levels may suffer in consequence. This aspect of the problem of 
agricultural adaptation is dealt with in a later chapter, as 
it cannot be separated from the problem of relative prices. 
Certain other factors affecting the response of agriculture to 
changes in demand may, however, conveniently be considered 
first. 

28. In Eastern Europe, where the nutrition problem is most 
important for the peasant population, a major obstacle in the way 
of improvement is the low level of output and, in certain countries, 
the high density of the agricultural population. The agrarian 
reforms which took place after the war divided up big estates into 
smaller units which were generally better adapted to intensive 
animal husbandry than to cereal cultivation. To some extent, there 
has been a favourable change in the character of production ; but the 
lack of financial resources has prevented the movement towards 
animal husbandry from going very far. Where cereals continue to 
form the principal crop on the small estates, yield per man engaged 
in agriculture and yield per acre remain low, as the methods in 
use are frequently primitive. The suggestion is frequently made that 
the growth of industrialisation will raise nutritional levels in these 
Eastern-European States by reducing the number of people who 
draw their sustenance from the soil. The gradual improvement of 
methods of cultivation and the tendencies already in progress 
towards diversification of production will also serve this end. 

29. Lack of capital resources must be counted among the 
most important hindrances to increased diversification of agri- 
culture and increased agricultural efficiency. This is more espe- 
cially true of the peasant States of Eastern Europe, where the 
rate of capital accumulation is low; but the statement applies as 
well to Western countries. A capital outlay is required to acquire 
live-stock, to house them and to buy fodder crops for them where 
cereals are not grown and green pasture is not available. Fruit-trees 
do not bear for two to six years, and resources must be tied up for 
this period. Efficient methods in arable farming generally involve 
the use of some machinery or machine-made implements and 
capital outlay for other purposes. In many countries, credits are 
not readily available for these purposes, or available only at rates 
which lay a very heavy burden on the borrower. In 1930, the 



— i68 — 

Sub-Committee on Agricultural Credit of the Commission of 
Enquiry for European Union expressed the view that : 

" Lack of capital was one of the major factors which prevented 
the agriculturist from changing from those crops of which there 
was at present an excess to those the consumption of which was 
tending to incrase. Moreover, all measures aimed at raising the 
standard of living in those European countries where the standard 
is at present relatively low must help to increase the demand for 
the higher-value agricultural products, such as meat, milk, fruit, 
etc. The granting of credit, and more especially the granting of 
credit where rates of interest are now abnormally high, would 
therefore help, on the one hand, to bring about those changes in 
production and, on the other, that increase in demand which are 
alike necessary for a general improvement in agricultural conditions. 
They would also certainly have the effect of increasing the pur- 
chasing power of agriculturists, and particularly their demand for 
industrial products." 

30. Up to the present, this analysis has been concerned with the 
obstacles in the way of the adaptation of production to the new 
consumption trends. These have been shown to be natural condi- 
tions, the conservatism of producers, commercial policy and penury 
of capital. Brief reference must now be made to another group of 
factors, connected with the marketing and distribution of foods, 
which have prevented the production and consumption of the 
protective foods from increasing more rapidly than it has done. 

31. The quality of certain of the protective foods at present 
put on the market in some countries leaves much to be desired. 
Milk is the most important example, because, though it is one of the 
best foods available, it can also be the most dangerous. Quite apart 
from the varying nutritional value and chemical composition of 
milk (which depends upon the breed of cows, methods of feeding 
and methods of maintenance), there are the separate problems of its 
cleanliness and its safety. The question of quality is important also 
for eggs, fruit and vegetables. The consumer of eggs wants a guaran- 
tee of freshness ; many countries have imposed standards of quality 
based upon an examination of egg contents by candling. The 
quality of fresh fruit and vegetables is more immediately apparent 
to the consumer. In recent years, the consumer has become more 
meticulous in his demands; attractiveness of appearance and 
uniformity of size and quality have become increasingly important. 



— 169 — 

Certain countries have imposed grading schemes, but, in others, 
fruit and vegetables of very different degrees of quahty and attrac- 
tiveness are placed indiscriminately on the market; and the 
uncertainty which results in the mind of the purchaser necessarily 
discourages the development of regular habits of consumption. 
It is clearly in the interests of producer and consumer alike that 
standards of quality should be laid down and that prices should bear 
some relation to these standards. Not only does this give the con- 
sumer a greater guarantee that he is getting merchandise of the 
quality he chooses to pay for, but it also provides a greater incentive 
to producers to improve the quality of their output. In this field 
also, an important contribution has been made by agricultural 
co-operative societies. Desirable as improvements in quality are, 
however, the tendency among distributors in some countries to lay 
too much emphasis on appearance and elaborate packing is one 
to be deprecated; it often renders nutritionally valuable fruit and 
vegetables unnecessarily expensive, and sometimes leads to the less 
attractive but wholesome products being eliminated altogether 
instead of being sold at reduced prices. 

32. The perishable nature of many of the protective foods is a 
formidable obstacle to the rational organisation of the market, and 
must therefore be regarded as an obstacle to the reorientation of 
agricultural production. Many protective foods must be disposed 
of as soon as they are ripe, and the market is not always in a 
position to absorb the quantities coming forward at prices remunera- 
tive to the producer.^ Prices to the producer fluctuate widely, 
not only in different seasons, but also in much shorter intervals, 
even at times in the course of a day; and there are frequently 
large differences between the prices which a commodity will fetch 
in different markets of the same country.^ This adds an element 
of speculation to the production of fruit and vegetables, which has 
probably prevented the tendency towards this form of cultivation 
from going farther than it has gone. 

33. In recent years, however, great advances have been made 
in refrigeration, cooling and storage ; and it is to be expected that, as 



^ See paragraph 30 in Part II, Chapter i, above, on fish marketing. 
2 United Kingdom Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries: Economic Series 
No. 25 — " Vegetable Marketing in England and Wales " (London, 1935) • 



— 170 — 

further progress is made along these Hnes and as the methods already 
known are brought into general use, the problem of the perishability 
will tend to become less important and its significance as an obstacle 
in the way of agricultural reorientation accordingly reduced. 

It is only necessary to recall the part which refrigeration and 
chilling have played in regularising the supplies of meat to realise 
the possibilities. Until the invention of refrigeration by Carre 
in 1861, meat had either to be sold within a few days of slaughter, 
regardless of market conditions, or " cured ". With the introduction 
of refrigeration, winter conditions were artificially created in 
packing-houses throughout the whole year and packing could be 
carried on without interruption. Refrigerated meat could be kept 
in the cool chamber for several weeks and marketed in good 
condition and orderly fashion. The subsequent application of the 
process to railway and ocean transport did away with distance as a 
factor in meat supplies.^ 

Latterly, refrigeration has been successfully applied to 
horticultural produce in many countries. In the United States, for 
example, growers and distributors, in co-operation with railway and 
steamship companies, have developed facilities making possible the 
shipment of produce for great distances under controlled tempera- 
ture and humidity conditions, and it is estimated that over 
two-thirds of all horticultural produce shipped by rail and by water 
are handled under these conditions. Extensive terminal cold- 
storage warehouses have been established at the larger and 
moderate-sized marketing centres; such warehouses have also 
been set up in the larger producing areas, where fruit and vegetables 
can be held under best conditions during the harvesting rush or 
stored pending the development of a favourable market. 

The application of pre-cooling at the point of origin has reduced 
the amount of refrigeration required in transit. Preservation has 
also been achieved through freezing, and important research is now 
being carried out which seems destined, in time, to make freezing 
a standard technique in fruit and vegetable preservation. During 
the past few years, the freezing method of preserving peas has been 
used commercially in London. 



^ See United Kingdom, Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Economic Series 
No. 6: " Report on the Trade in Refrigerated Beef, Mutton and Lamb " (London, 
1925)- 



— 171 — 

Refrigeration and cold storage have been used to an increasing 
extent in recent years in Western Europe. Striking progress has, 
for example, been made in Italy in the establishment of regional 
and local centres of pre-cooling; a large cold store was erected at 
Verona in 1931 and the State Railway system is well equipped to 
transport perishable goods in excellent preservation. In France, 
the necessary installations have to some extent been set up in 
Provence, the Rhone valley and Roussillon and railway refrigeration 
has been made available in these districts. In the Netherlands, 
two cold-storage houses with capacity of 500,000 kg. each have been 
established in the fruit-producing region of Betuwe; in Sweden, 
there are several large refrigeration plants near the principal 
fruit-growing districts, and in recent years many small pre-cooling 
stations have been set up by berry-growers. In Germany, a begin- 
ning has also been made: experiments carried out in 1931 showed 
that asparagus could be successfully stored for eight weeks, and the 
price realised at the end of the period was one-third higher than at 
the time of purchase. In Switzerland, interesting experiments have 
been carried out, inter alia, by the Station federale d'essais viticoles 
et arboricoles, at the cold-storage plant established at the Geneva 
railway terminus in 1932. In the Argentine, all fruit destined to be 
exported in refrigerated chambers has to be subjected to pre-cooling 
for anything up to twenty-four hours before loading. In general, 
the use of cold preservation of fruits and vegetables is at its begin- 
ning in Western Europe, the United States and South America, 
and is scarcely known in Central and Eastern Europe. 

34. Substantial advances have also been made in canning 
methods in recent years and the industry shows a remarkable 
growth throughout the world. The canning and drying of fruit and 
vegetables, the manufacture of jam and fruit-juice, the brining and 
pickling of vegetables are all worthy of mention as technique 
tending — along with refrigeration and cold storage — to reduce 
the commercial hazard in producing perishable foods and to 
afford consumers a more uniform supply at more reasonable prices. 

35. The importance of adequate and economical transport 
facilities for fruit and vegetables has been referred to above. In the 
opinion of many, the great expansion of fruit and early vegetable 
culture in France during the past half-century is largely due to 



— 172 — 

the railways. Schedules are fixed with the needs of producers 
and the market in view; thousands of specially ventilated express 
wagons have been constructed; end-of-season rates are given on 
certain vegetables consigned to the Paris market; at least one 
company has set up an agricultural research department to dissemi- 
nate scientific knowledge and has distributed plants and seeds 
free of charge. In certain European States, on the other hand, no 
special facilities whatever exist for the transport of perishable 
goods; ordinary goods vans are used and quality and appear- 
ance are frequently seriously impaired by the time the commodities 
reach their destination. 

36. The question of transportation charges is obviously impor- 
tant ; in some countries, these appear to be very high in relation to 
the product's value and to limit the development of consumption. 

37. Of still greater importance is the whole question of the 
organisation of distribution and marketing. A wide range of 
problems enters into consideration in this connection, and it is not 
possible at this point to do more than briefly indicate some of the 
more important. Reference has already been made to the desira- 
bility of improved methods of grading ; in addition to the advantages 
already mentioned, the easy identification of produce on the basis of 
grades would be of great assistance to the wholesale and retail 
trader and would eliminate waste arising from the purchase of 
unsaleable goods which prejudice the consumer and for which, 
ultimately, he must pay. Methods of packing must also be men- 
tioned in this connection. In many countries, a large proportion 
of fruit and vegetables is marketed loose. They are handled several 
times before they reach the consumer, and each handling increases 
the risk of deterioration both of quality and of appearance. When 
containers are used, they are frequently overloaded and sometimes 
include low-grade material which cannot be sold but adds to the 
cost of transport. 

38. The organisation of the wholesale and retail trade varies 
widely in different countries and it is difficult to make any generali- 
sations in this field. The complaint is frequently heard that the 
number of middlemen handling food products is excessive, that 
retailers' margins are high and that the wide spread which fre- 
quently exists between the price the producer gets and the price 



— 173 — 

the consumer must pay is a factor of major importance in restricting 
consumption. 

39. In the present sections have been enumerated some of 
the more important obstacles to the adaptation of agriculture to 
the new consumption trends. Attention has particularly been 
directed to the importance of natural conditions, lack of capital, 
tradition, low level of agricultural technique and the perishability 
of certain of the protective foods; and an account has been given 
of some of the attempts being made to overcome certain of these 
obstacles and so assist agriculture in its task of adaptation. One 
particularly important obstacle — namely, Government policy — 
has been reserved for separate treatment in a later chapter.^ 



D. Recent Changes in Agricultueal Methods. 

40. The general conclusion to which the preceding sections 
points is clear. By and large, agriculture shows an inherent capacity 
to meet new requirements as they develop. Obstacles, both natural 
and artificial, do no doubt exist; but the analysis of their nature 
suggests that, given wise and sympathetic consideration, many of 
these obstacles can be overcome. There need, therefore, be no 
serious misgivings regarding the capacity of agriculture to adapt 
itself to the changes in consumption habits which will result from 
an acceleration of the movement towards better nutrition. 

41. This statement, however, minimises the part which 
agriculture has played in the considerable improvement in nutri- 
tional standards which has already taken place; and it gives not 
even an approximate idea of the capacity of agriculture to contribute 
to the improvement in food-consumption habits which may be 
expected in the future. For the contribution of agriculture and 
agricultural science has been positive as well as merely adaptive. 
Through the application of new methods to the production of foods, 
yields have been increased, qualities have been improved, new 
varieties have been invented. If the economic problems with which 
the world is faced to-day are to some extent problems of abundance 
rather than of scarcity, it is thanks in part to the inventive genius 



^ See Chapter 4 below. 



— 174 — 

of those who have concerned themselves with agricultural methods 
and to the enterprising spirit of those who have applied them. 
The application of science to agriculture has produced a technical 
revolution parallel to, though less spectacular than, the industrial 
revolution. 

42. Recent technical changes have been mainly of two kinds: 
the use of mechanical processes instead of hand labour, and the 
application of biology and chemistry to agriculture. Mechanical 
processes have, up to the present, been most conspicuously 
successful in connection with grain production. For tilling and 
ploughing, the mechanical tractor is in common use in the United 
United States and Canada. The number of tractors in use in the 
United States rose from 246,000 to 920,000 between 1920 and 1930; 
at the same time, the number of horses fell from 17.2 to 12.9 milhons. 
Until the invention of the reaper and binder, one man could cut 
grain by scythe at the rate of about an acre a day, or by horse-drawn 
reaper at the rate of less than 10 acres a day. The reaper and binder 
reduced the costs of cereal harvesting greatly ; it came into general 
use in the United States in the i88o's. In the 1890's, the combine 
harvester began to be used in that country, and by the outbreak 
of the war its use was general. With the aid of this machine, two 
men can harvest 50 acres of wheat per day. The combine harvester 
is most adapted to countries where grain is grown on large holdings 
and where the standing crop is ripe and completely dry at harvest 
time. At present it is most commonly used in the United States, 
the Argentine, Australia and parts of Canada and the Union of 
Soviet Socialist Republics. In 1918, fourteen combine harvesters 
were at work in Kansas; by 1929, the number had risen to 25,000. 
The use of these mechanical methods is most common in the 
countries of extensive grain cultivation. The following table shows 
the total mechanical and animal power estimated to be available 
to agriculture in the United States, for example: 

Table VI. 

Total and Mechanical Horse-power in the United States. 



Year horse-power 



^ . , Horse-power 

^°'^^' contributed by 

mechanical power 



{ooo.ooo's) , „,*\ 

* ' ' (000,000 s) 

1910 27.9 6.8 

1920 37-5 i6-2 

1930 70-5 53-3 



— 175 — 

But the trend towards mechanisation of agriculture is evident 
elsewhere; it is of course partly responsible for the general decline 
in agricultural populations referred to in the preceding chapter. 
Thus, in the United Kingdom, the number of horses used for 
agricultural purposes fell from 807,000 in 1913 to 386,000 in 1935; 
6,400 tractors were sold in 1935, compared with 3,800 in 1931. 
Where labour is abundant and the farm unit small, manual processes 
continue to predominate. Thus, according to figures published 
by the Roumanian Ministry of Agriculture,^ 36.6% of the peasant 
properties of that country are entirely without animal traction, 
to say nothing of mechanical traction. The countries where mechani- 
sation has gone farthest are those in which agricultural labour is 
(or has in the past been) scarce in relation to land. 

43. The use of mechanical processes has been most striking 
in tilling, ploughing and the harvesting of grain, but most branches 
of agriculture have been affected. Thus, haymaking devices, 
milking machines, beet-lifters, fruit and egg graders and planting 
machines are becoming more and more widely used. 

44. The application of the biological and chemical sciences 
to agriculture has given even more far-reaching results than 
the application of mechanical processes. A classic example is 
the breeding of Marquis wheat in Canada just before the war. This 
grain ripens up to ten days earlier than those previously in use, and 
it has enabled the frontier of wheat cultivation to be pushed 
100 miles north and is estimated to have added 100 million acres 
to the potential wheat-belt of Canada alone. Through further crossing 
and selection, still earlier maturing varieties, notably Garnet 
wheat, have been developed in recent years. In other countries, 
notably Australia, the United States and the Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics, similar results have been obtained, particularly 
in the development of drought-resistant breeds of wheat. The 
effect of these developments has been enormously to increase the 
world's potential wheat reserves. 

45. Another striking example of plant breeding is the crossing 
of a wild cane with a cultivated variety in Java; the resulting 
hybrid (the famous P.O.J. No. 2878) had a yield 15 to 20% higher 



1 Quoted in Epica, February 19th, 1937. 



— 176 — 

than any variety previously known. The use of this cane has, with 
careful husbandry, increased the yield of sugar on the island to as 
high as 6 tons per acre, as compared with an average of 16 cwt. 
per acre in 1840-1843. Striking progress has also been made in the 
technique of sugar-beet cultivation. 

46. Examples of the work of the plant-breeder could be 
multiplied almost at will. Not only in rye, maize and rice, but 
also in fruit and vegetables, varieties have been produced which 
have greatly increased yields or improved quahty with little or no 
additional cost. In the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, for 
example, varieties of fruit have been developed which grow to 
maturity in cold northern climates. In the United States, experi- 
ments have been conducted in the breeding of citrus fruits with a 
view to selecting strains with the richest vitamin contents. 
Especially noteworthy from the point of view of the potential 
supply of the protective foods of animal origin is the selection and 
crossing of grasses, clovers, lucernes and other fodder crops. 
Elsewhere, pasture plants have been produced with two or three 
times the feeding value of natural pastures. Through the cultivation 
of varieties which grow early in the spring and late in the autumn, 
the grazing season has been extended. Moreover, in recent years, 
important progress has been made in drying young grass for 
winter feeding. The process of haymaking has been long known 
to be wasteful of feeding value, including vitamins and minerals; 
an official enquiry has estimated the loss in nutritive value 
involved in making grass into hay at £5 million annually for 
Great Britain. The same enquiry estimates that, in order to 
obtain the nutritive value of a ton of dried grass by buying other 
feeding-stuffs, it would be necessary to pay £7 ids., while the cost 
of producing a ton of fresh grass is estimated at about £2. It is 
obvious that there is a considerable margin to pay for the cost 
of drying, and in future the use of this process may become im- 
portant. In Denmark, strains of mangolds have been bred with 
extremely high solid-matter content and nutritive value, and the 
bad strains, consisting largely of water, have been forced out of 
cultivation. A great advantage of scientific advances in connection 
with grass and other fodder crops is that they enable the output of 
the protective foods to be increased without recourse to new land. 



— ^n — 

47. One aspect of the work of the plant-breeder the importance 
of which can scarcely be exaggerated is that the principal cost 
which it involves is the original non-recurring one of research. 
Once the desired strain has been developed, the seeds are scarce 
and relatively costly only for a few crop seasons; when the new 
seed gains general acceptance and use, it costs no more than the 
older, less productive strains. No capital outlay is therefore involved 
in the utilisation of scientific discoveries in this field. 

48. In the field of animal husbandry, breeding and feeding 
have greatly increased food output per animal. As a result of 
research and experimental work in animal nutrition, precise stand- 
ards are now available for live-stock feeding. The application of 
up-to-date methods has given remarkable results wherever it 
has been attempted. Table I above shows, for example, that in 
Denmark the average annual milk yield per cow rose from 1,350 
litres in 1870 to 2,200 litres in 1900 and 3,200 litres in 1934; 
at the same time, the butter-fat content also increased. In England 
and Wales, the average yield of cows recorded by the milk-recording 
societies increased from 599 gallons in 1918/19 to 700 gallons in 
1932/33.^ In New Zealand, the average production of butter-fat 
per cow, which had increased by about 25 lb. between 1901 and 
1920, increased by 69 lb. between 1920 and 1934. In Estonia, 
average annual output per cow rose from 2,015 litres in 1923/24 
to an average of 2,500 litres in 1933, and in Finland the increase 
was even greater. So far as meat production is concerned, the 
progress of the past century can be summarised in the statement 
that the carcass dressed weight of a two-year-old animal to-day is 
equivalent to that of a five-year-old beast a hundred years ago. 
Great progress has also been made in poultry-breeding; it is 
estimated that between 1913 and 1934 the average annual output 
per hen rose from 80 to 90 eggs in Germany, from 80 to 115 in 
Belgium, from 75 to 120 in England and Wales and from 100 to 124 
in the Irish Free State. 

49. Reference should perhaps also be made to the work of the 
chemist and bacteriologist in maintaining and increasing soil 
fertility, to the work of the entomologist in combating plant disease, 



^ I.e., from about 2,725 to about 3,200 litres. 

12 



— 178 — 

and to the work of the geneticist in improving breeds and of the 
veterinary surgeon in reducing animal disease. But the examples 
already given are sufficient to indicate the extent to which agri- 
culture and agricultural science have contributed to the 
improvement in nutritional standards. 

50. Steady progress is being made in the dissemination and 
application of scientific information. The International Institute of 
Agriculture is charged with an important task in arranging for the 
international exchange of scientific research. Governments and 
educational institutions in all countries are paying increasing atten- 
tion to the necessity for acquainting the individual farmer with the 
results of scientific research. Useful work in this field is performed by 
national organisations such as the Imperial Agricultural Bureaux 
of the British Commonwealth, and by various technical journals 
engaged in the constant review of scientific literature affecting 
agriculture. The agricultural co-operative movement in certain 
countries is also making an important contribution along the same 
lines. But in many countries the machinery of education is inade- 
quate, and important results could be achieved through the expendi- 
ture of relatively small sums of money in encouraging the adop- 
tion of proved methods and processes. Even if, during the next 
five years, no further new discoveries were made, but intensive 
national efforts were concentrated on securing the application of 
existing knowledge, the results on agricultural prosperity and 
nutritional standards would be enormous. 

E. Effect of Improved Nutrition on Agriculture. 

51. World agriculture and national agricultural systems cannot 
fail to gain from the acceleration of the movement towards better 
nutrition. The improvement in the quantity and quality of diets 
which nutrition policy aims to accomplish involves an increase in 
the demand for all classes of agricultural products. There is every- 
where among consumers a latent demand for additional food to 
ensure optimum health; and everywhere among producers the 
capacity to supply these additional needs exists. It is not possible 
to estimate accurately how the demand for each individual food 
will be affected. In some countries, where the level of national in- 
come is low, improvement in diet will take the form principally of 



— 179 — 

increased consumption of foods of high energy value. In others, 
where average income is high, the stress will be more particularly 
on the protective foods. 

But, even in these countries, recent studies of consumption suggest 
that appreciable sections of the population are not at present consum- 
ing enough of the energy-bearing foods, and that there is a latent 
demand for them as well as for the protective foods. Moreover, 
in countries where the stress is placed on the qualitative composi- 
tion ot diets, this generally involves an increase in the consumption 
of foods of animal origin; this, in turn, implies an increased demand 
for cereals and other products of arable farming for use as feeding- 
stuffs. It is therefore clear that all branches of agriculture will 
benefit from the steps which are taken to bring national diets 
closer to the norms laid down by modem physiology. 

52. The information at present available regarding national 
food -consumption habits is not sufficient to form the basis of 
an accurate judgment of the extent to which consumption falls 
short of standards of adequacy. Estimates have, however, recently 
been made which illustrate how profound would be the beneficial 
effects on agriculture if all sections of the population of two coun- 
tries where the general level of consumption is already high were 
adequately fed. For the United Kingdom, it has been calculated ^ 
that, if the food consumption of the whole population were raised 
to the level of the top 10%, this would involve an increase in the 
demand for milk of 80%; for butter, of 41%; for eggs, of 55%; 
for meat, of 29% ; and increased expenditures on fruit and vege- 
tables of 124 and 87% respectively. For the United States, it has 
been estimated ^ by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics that the 
land (exclusive of grazing-lands) required to produce diets of speci- 
fied nutritive contents ranges from 1.2 acres per head per year for 
a " restricted diet for emergency use " to 2.1 acres for a " liberal 
diet ".^ The latter figure is 10% higher than the average acreage 
used to produce the type of food apparently consumed during 
1927-1931. It is obvious that the figures quoted in this paragraph 



'^ J. B. Orr: " Food, Health and Income " (London, 1936). 

2 See U.S. Dept. of Agriculture, Circular No. 296: " Diets at Four Levels of 
Nutritive Content and Cost ", by Hazel K. Stiebeling and Medora M. Ward 
(Washington, 1933). 

3 For the content of these diets, see Chapter 5, paragraph 14, below. 



— i8o — 

must be treated with reserve; none the less, they illustrate the 
extension of agricultural activity which would result from the 
success of nutrition policy. 

53. As the movement towards better nutrition spreads and 
grows, certain adjustments will be called for in national agricultural 
systems. Diversification of diet involves diversification of agricul- 
tural production. As the highly protective foods (dairy products, 
fruit and vegetables) tend to constitute a larger proportion of the 
national diet, in countries where the general level of consumption 
is already relatively high, there will be a tendency to shift from the 
production of the staples to the production of these foods. Many of 
them, such as liquid milk and some fruits and vegetables, cannot, 
owing to their nature, enter largely into international trade; 
and all national agricultural systems are consequently likely 
to be directly affected by the changing structure of domestic 
demand. 

The commodities with an upward trend of consumption are, 
characteristically, high-value goods. Per unit of land used or 
per unit of capital invested, they bring a higher return to the 
producer than the foods of high energy value. This is particularly 
the case wherever the greater part of the agricultural land is 
held in small holdings ill adapted to mechanised low-cost methods 
used in the production of cereals on the extensive holdings of the 
non-European countries. These small holdings are, on the other 
hand, very well adapted to animal husbandry and the more 
intensive cultivation of fruit and vegetables. Soil fertility is, 
moreover, increased through the farmland manure which forms an 
important by-product of animal husbandry. 

54. The diversification of production which would result, 
and has already resulted, from national agricultural systems 
adapting themselves to the new consumption trends not only 
involves a concentration on higher- value crops: equally impor- 
tant is the fact that it involves the spreading of risks and conse- 
quently an increased guarantee of agricultural stability. A very 
striking feature of recent years has been the persistence with 
which the demand for fruit and vegetables in most countries 
increased, even in the years of deepest depression. The strength 
of the underlying trend ol the new food habits could not be more 



— i8i — 

convincingly demonstrated. The price of no product is immune from 
the general downward sweep which occurs during a period of 
economic depression ; but it is obvious that commodities for which 
the underlying trend of demand is upwards are in a less exposed 
position than others. During the recent economic depression, the 
prices which the producers of many countries received for liquid 
milk for human consumption, for fruit and for fresh vegetables fell 
both later and less than the prices of the staple foodstuffs. To quote 
only one example, the following table shows the annual movements 
of the prices received by farmers in the United States for various 
types of farm products along with the general index of farm prices : 

Table VII. 

Indices of Prices Received by Farmers in the United States. 

(1929 = 100). 

General Fruits Commercial] Dairy 

index truck crops " products 

1930 ^^ 86 115 94 87 

1931 60 70 79 69 

1932 45 58 68 53 

1933 48 52 70 53 

^ I.e., market vegetables. 

These figures suggest that diversification not only tends to 
raise agricultural income, but also increases the likelihood of its 
being maintained during cyclical fluctuations. 

55. Moreover, the nutrition of the producer himself is directly 
improved through this diversification. In the technical conditions 
of cultivation prevailing in a large part of Europe, a diversification 
of agriculture is likely to result largely from individual farms 
increasing the variety of their output, and the increase in the 
variety of crops produced will make possible an increase in the 
variety of the diet of the farmer and his household. It would be 
difficult to exaggerate the necessity for this development. 

Elsewhere in this report, statistics are given to show the low level 
of nutrition prevailing among those engaged in agriculture in 
several parts of the world. The data available are unfortunately 
fragmentary and it is to be hoped that they will be improved 
in the near future ; the Health Organisation of the League is taking 
steps, in conjunction with national administrations, to enquire into 



— l82 — 

rural nutrition in several countries. Enough is, however, already 
known to make it clear that — paradoxical though this seems — the 
deficiencies in the diet of the millions of persons engaged in primary 
tood production are by no means less important than of those 
engaged in industrial occupations. The disproportion between the 
prices which the small peasant receives for the crops he puts on 
the market and the prices he must pay for his modest purchases of 
industrial goods is frequently so great that, when he concentrates 
his productive resources on one or two crops, he is unable to 
supplement his monotonous and one-sided diet by purchasing other 
food. Any steps which are taken to increase the number of crops 
produced on such small farms cannot but have a beneficent effect 
on the producers' nutritional status. In some cases, natural 
conditions limit the variety of crops which can be produced, but 
in others conditions are favourable to the production of foods 
which are notoriously deficient in rural diets. Through education 
and instruction, much could be done to improve the diet of rural 
populations in this way. 

56. Agriculture may expect to derive still other benefits 
from the movement towards better nutrition. In most Western- 
European States, rural depopulation is viewed with considerable 
misgiving and there is a widespread desire to stop the efflux of 
young people from the country to the towns. The economical 
production of dairy produce and of fruit and vegetables requires 
more labour per unit of land than does the economical production 
of cereals. Most grains, once sown, require but little attention until 
harvesting. In dairy-farming, on the other hand, labour is contantly 
employed in feeding, milking, etc. Vegetables also require much 
attention. Mixed farming is thus admirably adapted to the family 
structure of the farm so common in many parts of the world, 
and a policy of encouraging and facilitating the transition to this 
form of agriculture, where it is technically possible, would serve 
the additional purpose of making it possible for larger numbers of 
people to draw sustenance and profit from agricultural pursuits. 

57. Such a policy of facilitating the adaptation of European 
agricultural systems to the new consumption trends may well 
bring advantages also to the countries which, through their natural 
or technical conditions, are best adapted to produce the great staple 



- i83 - 

foodstuffs. A greater concentration of national agriculture on 
suppljang the increased domestic requirements of liquid milk, fruit, 
vegetables, eggs, etc., which would result from an improvement in 
nutritional standards may lead to an expansion of international and 
intercontinental trade in cereals, sugar, chilled and frozen meat, 
and butter, with mutual profit to the producing and the consuming 
countries. 

58. The objection is sometimes raised that a deliberate policy 
of diversification of farming might result in increased dependence 
on foreign supplies of essential foodstuffs in case of national emer- 
gency, and that therefore encouragement should be confined to the 
production of the high-energy foods, such as the cereals and sugar- 
beet. It is undoubtedly true that, per unit of land, a larger number 
of calories for human purposes can, in normal circumstances, be 
derived from sugar-beet and cereals than from the highly protective 
foods. Certain considerations, however, weigh on the other side. 
In particular, it must be observed that dairy-farming and cereal 
production are not necessarily mutually exclusive alternatives. 
The method of feeding the animals is the determinant factor. Under 
the method of " arable animal husbandry " in use in Denmark, the 
animals are partly fed with cereals which each individual farmer 
grows himself. It has been shown in Table I above that the change 
from cereal exporting to specialised dairy production in Denmark 
involved no reduction in the total production of cereals. Domestic 
cultivation was indeed intensified, though the type of cereals 
and the purpose for which they were produced changed. The 
natural and technical conditions of cultivation {e.g., the amount of 
rainfall in relation to evaporation, the size of holdings) suggest 
that " arable animal husbandry " can be much more widely 
extended to other European countries. 



59. The present chapter has covered a wide field in general terms. 
It has been argued that agriculture shows an inherent capacity to 
adapt itself to the changes in the structure of demand, but that 
certain factors tend to impede such adaptation. The most impor- 
tant influence, other than climate and soil, determining agricultural 
production — namely. Government measures designed to influence 



— i84 — 

the prices obtained by the produce — has been left for consideration 
in the next chapter. It has also been argued that not only world 
agriculture as a whole, but also the various national agricultural 
systems, will benefit greatly from an extension of the movement 
towards better nutrition. The effect of the factors hitherto ana- 
lysed in general terms on nutritional levels remains to be discussed 
in detail. The increased food consumption which it is the object 
of nutrition policy to encourage depends ultimately (measures 
of social assistance apart) upon the real purchasing power of the 
consumer and upon his knowledge of the nutritive value of the pro- 
tective foods and willingness to apply this knowledge. Real 
purchasing power is a function of prices on the one hand and income 
on the other. The next chapter is devoted to a consideration of the 
relationship between prices and consumption, and Chapter 4 to an 
analysis of the influence on prices both of commercial and fiscal 
policy and of the natural long-run factors affecting production and 
distribution. In Chapters, an analysis is made of the role of income 
in determining nutritional levels, and the influence of education 
is analysed in Chapter 6. 



i85 



Chapter 3. 
FOOD PRICES AND CONSUMPTION. 

1. The purpose of nutrition policy is to direct consumption, 
both quantitatively and qualitatively, along the lines which the 
new science of nutrition has indicated as being conducive to health 
and efficiency. A necessary prerequesite for such policy is a 
knowledge of the factors mainly responsible in determining con- 
sumption levels and the state of nutrition. Among these factors, 
it is clear that food prices, incomes and the level of nutritional 
knowledge play a dominant role. The influence of incomes and 
nutritional knowledge is reserved for separate treatment in Chap- 
ters 5 and 6. The present chapter is devoted to an examination 
of the role of food prices in determining consumption levels, while 
the following chapter indicates some of the main factors influencing 
food prices on the supply side. 

2. The general theoretical relation of prices to consumption is 
familiar in the form of the " law of demand ". A change in the 
price of any commodity tends to set up two kinds of demand 
reactions. In the first place, it affects the real income of consumers 
— raising purchasing power if the price falls, or reducing purchasing 
power if the price rises. The purchasing power thus gained or 
lost may lead to an increase or decrease in the consumption, not 
only of the article whose price has changed, but also of any other 
articles according to the consumers' scales of desires. In the second 
place, a change in the price of one commodity alters its cheapness 
or dearness relatively to other commodities prices of which have 
not changed, or not changed to the same extent. This second 
influence is particularly important in the case of commodities for 
which efficient substitutes are readily available. 

3. Price elasticity ^ of demand consists, therefore, of two com- 
ponents: income elasticity — i.e., changes in demand resulting from 



1 I.e., the ratio of proportionate change iu demand to proportionate change in 
price. 



— i86 — 

changes in income — and elasticity of substitution — i.e., changes in 
demand resulting from changes in relative prices. Chapter 5 
furnishes data regarding the first element. The analysis made in 
that chapter shows that, in general, the income elasticity of demand 
is greater for protective foods than for those supplying mainly 
energy; or, in other words, that consumers, as their incomes rise, 
tend to increase consumption of protective rather than of non- 
protective foods. This fact would suggest that the price elasticity 
of demand for the protective foods is, on the whole, probably 
greater than for the non-protective foods, except in so far as the 
elasticities are modified by possibilities of substitution. If, for 
instance, prices of non-protective foods as a whole fall (relatively, of 
course, to incomes and other prices), it is not to be expected that 
their consumption will increase very rapidly, but rather that the 
purchasing power released will be spent mainly on the protective 
foods which have a higher elasticity of demand. On the other 
hand, if the price of only one non-protective food — say, of one 
cereal — falls in a country where more than one cereal is in common 
use, a considerable increase in its demand may arise from the sub- 
stitution of this cereal for the others whose prices have not fallen; 
in addition, there may be an increase in the demand for protective 
foods due to the purchasing power set free. 

4. The above considerations regarding price elasticities of 
demand are deduced indirectly from information concerning 
income elasticities. It is also possible, however, to assess directly 
the importance of prices in guiding consumption by concrete 
calculations of price elasticities of demand — i.e., the proportionate 
change in amounts purchased which, on the average, correspond 
to given proportionate changes in price. Such calculations of 
demand elasticities are clearly of central importance for nutrition 
policy, in particular as regards agriculture. Information in this 
field is at present very restricted, mainly owing to the inadequacy of 
consumption statistics, to which attention has already been drawn. 

5. A very rough illustration of the relation between retail 
prices and per caput consumption of butter, milk and eggs in a few 
countries during the ten years 1925-1934 is given in Diagram I. ^ 



1 Based on League of Nations: " The Problem of Nutrition ", Vol. IV. — 
" Statistics of Food Production, Consumption and Prices ", documentation prepared 
by the International Institute of Agriculture (Geneva. 1936). 



— i8y — 



Diagram I. 

Prices and Consumption of Butter, Eggs and Milk. 

(1925 = 100.) 

A Real price. B Consumption. 



150 

140 
130 

120 

no 
1CX) 

90 

110 
100 

90 
SO 
ISO 
ISO 
140 
130 
120 
HO 

90 

SO, 

70 
180 

i-'O 

160 

150 

14.0 

I30 

120 

no 
100 

90 
60 

70 

60 















BEUR 


RE 


- BUTTER 














roAurF 












4 


^ 


III II 

CI I1CQ.P -C\A/IT7Cm Akir\ 


















8 


y 
















<LL.r 


M.« 


"IW 




( 


/ 










/ 


f 






















/" 




*V 










O- 


/ 
















^ 


,''" 


_^.*" 












4 


P" 


'.• 


\ 


*^ 




,/— 




_ 


^' 


<^" 








A 


^ 


_^ 


^ 


^' 


^ 


•• 








H/ 








V 








*^ 






































































^^>I 






B 








^ 


''r-p^ 


^ 


"" 






- 


ET/i 


1 i 
JS-UNIS-U.S.A 




N 


A 




p- 






1 ! 




^ 



1 1 1 
.ALLEMAGNE- 


1 1 
GERMANY _ 


















^^ 


,»-«• 


■*«» 


._ 


,^ 










4 


'B 














> 




















/ 


















/ 


















^ 


K. 
























"N 


St 






__^ 


X 



































Aj 






~N 


ETH 


rS-E 
ERL 


AS 
AND 








' ' 


V 




b 




r 

/ 




^> 


s 






1 






B, 


r 


















/ 












7^ 




,*••" 






























/ 

c 




















X 


^^ 






■% 


S^ 






/^ 


V 












N 


^^ 


y 













































































^• 


>~, 


_ 


— ^•' 1 


- 


_, 


► ^^* 


.«•■ 


--''■ 










>> 






"\ 


V^ 












_CANA 


)A 




V 


^^ 


^ 





- 























^ar\\ 


yAi 1 


klC. 










/ 


/- 


1 rvumuwii. uiii 

UNITED KINGDOf 

1 1 1 


^ 






1' 
















/»' 


y 
















6/ 


/ 
















^X 


*' 














_^^ 


,^' 


--%. 

















-^ 


^ 


^ 


V 




















A^ 


"^ 


-N 


V 




















N 


s 



















A 




-D/ 


>NEt 


MR 


K-[ 


lEN 


^AP 




i 
1 




\ 


wN 


1 
1 




















1 


















I 

1 




















1 
1 


















.5^ 










• 


r^^ 


^N 


> 














\ 






















^ 


^ 


-^ 


s.. 


A 






















^^ 






















\ 


. y 


/ 


















s/ 





ISO 
140 
130 
120 
no 
100 
90 

no 
100 

90 

ao 

160 

150 
I40 
130 
120 

no 
100 

90 

80 

70 
180 

170 

160 

ISO 

140 

130 

120 

no 
100 

90 

eo 

70 

60 



1925 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 341925 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 

SON 7330 



— i88 



Diagram I (continued). 

Prices and Consumption of Butter, Eggs and Milk. 

(1925 = 100.) 
A Real price. B Consumption. 



130 

120 

110 

1CX) 

90 

80 

70 

MO 

liO 
120 
no 
100 
90 
80 
120 

no 
100 

90 
60 

130 
120 
no 
1CX) 

QO 
60 
70 



OEUFS-EGGS 



n \ \ 1 r 

ETATS-UNIS-U.S.A.. 










LAIT- 


-MILK 






1 1 1 

ETAT5-UMIS-U.S.A 


. 




















B 


r< 


*^ 




>. 




^^ 


"^ 


"" 


_^ 


< 






^ 

























































ROYAUMc-UNl 
UNITED KINGDOM. 



, .• 



/ B 



^■'> 




^•.^- 



1 

r AM A r\A 


















.nil 


<->!/<" 






B 










^' 


,^' 


,"" 








* 


•-4_. 




^ 


M 




^ 


. ^ 


A 




















^ 


>— ' 


''^ 




«» 






ALLEMASNE -GERMANY 




Xt= — 



130 
120 
no 
100 

90 
SO 

70 
14 O 

130 
120 

no 
100 

90 
so 

120 
no 
100 

90 

80 

130 

120 

no 

100 

90 

80 

70 

1925 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 1925 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 

5DN 7b30' 

























FRA 


NCE 










































/^ 




A 

^4 




^ 




— 






/ 






»''" 




.— 


— 


V 
1 


k< 


ry 


^i 


^"^ 


B 












•' 



















i 

CMICCP 


1 1 1 

-^\A/IT7CDi Akir 


















B_ 




^ 


^ 


— 




^-^ 


»,^.»— . 


^m^' 


:p< 


*^ 








^ 


sx'^ 




A 






""*• 


■•^ 









































































A 












^'. 


»^ 






^ 


^ 


■^fc. 






^- 


^ 




«_ 


t>! 


,B 




"1 


S. 


Al 1 


EM^ 


&(^KI 


P -r. 


.PDk 


^AN 


V 


'"*• 


»^« 


- 






z. t 


iLKn 


T 









Influences on consumption other than price are disregarded, and 
the retail price of each commodity has been deflated by an index 
of all retail food prices. The price curve, that is to say, does not 
show the changes in the actual retail prices of the commodities in 
question, but in the relationship between their prices and the 
prices of all foods; in short, it shows the changes in the " relative " 



— iSg — 

and not the " absolute " clearness of the foods covered. In spite 
of over-simplification and of the roughness of the national con- 
sumption estimates, a fairly clear negative price elasticity — an 
inverse relation between prices and consumption^can be seen in 
most cases. The elasticity appears, on the whole, to be greater, 
and the correlation better, in the case of butter than in that of 
milk and eggs, probably owing to the greater possibilities of sub- 
stitution in the former case. It may be noted that elasticity of 
demand for butter tends to be less in countries, such as Canada, 
where the per caput consumption is already high and where the 
main substitute, margarine, is not available. 

A clear relation between prices and consumption of oranges and 
bananas in Sweden is shown in Diagram II below. ^ 

Diagram II. 

Prices and Consumption of Oranges and Bananas 
IN Sweden. 

(1932 = 100.) 

A Consumption of bananas. 

B Consumption of oranges. 

C Price of bananas I deflated by total 

D Price of oranges / food cost index. 



140 
130 
120 
110 
ICX> 
90 
60 

70 
60 







B 


— — 




/^ 




A 


V 






-i 




^^ 






"^ 1 


\ 


v^'^H-a^ 




N 


Jt>^\^ 











140 
130 
120 

no 
100 

90 
so 

70 

60 



1932 1933 1934 1935 

SON 7326 



Similarly, the effect of prices on the consumption of milk, beef, 
pork, sausages and sugar by families of workers in Vienna can be 
seen distinctly in Diagram III. The consumption data have 
been obtained from family consumption studies of the Chamber of 



1 Data taken from Statistik Arsbok, 1936. Net imports were used for con- 
sumption. 



— igo — 

Labour and relate to twenty-two identical families which kept 
records continuously from 1927 to 1934; the prices are those 
actually paid on the average as ascertained by dividing the expen- 
diture incurred by quantities purchased, and they have been 
deflated by the cost-of-living index for Vienna.^ 

Diagram III. 

Prices and Consumption: Workers' Families in Vienna (1927-1934). 

(1927 = 100.) 
A Real price. B Consumption. 



1201 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 [ 1 1 1 j 1 1 1 j120 

110- — -A — -^— B 1,0 

90 D :>s,^5k^ _5t _ — ^^ 90 

60 ^ ^ — \ 60 

70 SAUCISSE -SAUSAGE PORC- PORK-\iSii— 70 

60' 1 ' ' L- — I ' ' J ' ' ^ '— — ' ' ' ' ' 6Q 

i20| — I — I — I — - — I — I — I — 1 1 — r — I — 1 — I — 1 — \ — I — 1120 

^.A^ LAIT-MILK 

110 V^ py 1 — ^ — I no 

N I 1 1 1 \ 1^**^! 

so ^kr I 1 1 1 1 1 l y ^r — |130 

70 ^*^B iSUCRE-SUCAR A^^ 120 

60 i^ ^ ^B '"^ 

40 BOEUF-BEEF ^^ii/" *~ ^*^ 

30' ' ' ' ■ ' ' ' ' ^ ' ' ' ' ' ' ^ ' SO 

1927 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 1927 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 

5DN 7327 



6. Another rough indication regarding price elasticities can be 
obtained from observations in local communities of prices and sales 
of large, well-established retail stores, which serve a substantial 



1 " Kammer fiir Arbeiter und Angestellte in Wien ", Wirtschaftsstatistisches 
Jahrbuch, 1936, Table 169. 



— igi — 

proportion of the demand of a district. The following examples 
supplied by local consumers' co-operative stores in Austria provide 
some interesting evidence on the relation of retail prices to sales 
of a few foodstuffs. 

Table I. 

Prices and Sales in Co-operative Stores (Austria). 

Consumers' Co-operative in Lower Austria. 

1934 1935 

Prices Sales Prices Sales 

Schillings Kg. Schillings Kg. 

Apples 0.34 68,700 0.55 45.500 

Beans (Wachtelbohnen) . . 0.53 6,200 0.48 9.400 

Apple jam 1.80 720 1.60 1,360 

Flour 0.72 355.600 0.74 332,300 

Consumers' Co-operative in Carinthia. 

Lard 2.53 62,048 2.60 59,643 

Vegetable fat and dripping 1.84-2.00 7,995 i-79-i-87 16,459 

Salad oil 1.35 80,649 1.34 86,652 

Maize 0.36 314.323 0.^8 292,825 

7. A number of investigations concerning the elasticity of 
demand for certain foodstuffs have been made with more refined 
statistical tools. Table II ^ gives a summary of the results of a 
few such investigations. When an elasticity is shown as i, it 
means that it has been found that a reduction of, say, 10% in 
price led, on the average, to an increase of about 11% in demand, 
such that the total value of sales remained always constant; and 
similarly in the case of an increase in price. When an elasticity is 
greater than i, it means that the proportionate change in demand 
was found to be greater than the proportionate change in price, 
so that a fall in price led to an increase, and a rise in price to a 
decrease, in the total value of sales; where it is less than i, the 
opposite was found to be true. 

8. In view of the small number of calculations relating to any 
one commodity, and of the divergencies in time, place and method 
of the calculations, caution is required in drawing conclusions from 
the above table. It may be noticed, however, that, of the pro- 
tective foods included, fresh eggs showed a very high elasticity of 



1 Professor J. Tinbergen, " L'^lasticite de la demande des produits des industries 
agricoles ", Congrfes international des Industries agricoles, Scheveningen, i937- 



192 — 



00 ^ 

d 



hi O h-t ^ 



W 



c S: 



be £ 



o lo 



M d ^ 



m 

00 



o 



■ 




' 


s?' c 


, 


ii rt 




3 w^ 


so 








O 



a 



8 



.S B 
•a c; 

m o 



tn 

(U 

o 

'in 








'0 


d 









u 


•I— 1 




c 2 


+-> 




"" a 


.2 




Ul 0) 






'-' u 


*^H 


IS 

s 




a! ^ 


03 
> 


B 


^ rt 






Ui 


"rt 



Q s 



X! 



k^ 



s 
cs 



3 
O 
C/3 



o 



C T3 
O D 
tn tn 

o 

HO 



o 

P N 

V 

T GO 

o ^ 



o 

M 
I 



t/I 


'u 



03 
tn 

o 



tn 
C 
O 



> 



O 4) 
tn en 

TO ^ 



l-i C^ 

o 
. <^ 



o 

0\ 



13 

03 
^3 



O 



en 

<u 
o 



Oh tUO '-^ 

'^ -^ -^ rt 
> 






o 



T3 
C 
03 

6 
o 



03 , 



o 
O 






03 . 



S 
o 



S o 



O o 



13 

c 

o3 



X) 1-1 

d -^ 

tn O 
•Hi 
bo d 

•^B 

1^ "-I 

™ <l; 

aj 1) 

•a 13 



+j x) 



,C/3 



rQ bo 
d-^ 






> 
u 

3 

o 

bO 
03 
o3 



I 






M 
c^ 



I I 

d M 



o 



to 



d 
d 
o 
o 

bo^ 

d -^ 
.3 > 

<u +-> 

B ^ 
o o 

•s§ 

o 

^ 9, 
o <i^ 

o lu 

o3 (V) 
-g bO 



-d 

03 <^ 

bo 

r 03 

S ^ 

o . 

ts 2" 



o 

ON 



ON 



d 
o 

-M 
-M 
P 

6 

bo 

-o.S 

C3 1^ 



1: o 

Ph tn 
O 






d 
o 



bo u 
d O 



13 

d 

03 

<D 
<U 



O ^HH 



^1 ^ 

Ph 03 
• - <u 

d 



x) 



o 

Pi c3 
• - tU 

§5 






N 
H 

1-1 
u 



<u 
o 
'C 

P< 

s 

o 
o 
d 



d 



Cn t^ 

O M 



U-) vo o m 



03 






X 
d 



T3 

S a; 

S (=^ 

:d 0! 

oj in 

X3 O 

d -f! 

£i ^ 

H 



ID ' 

bo. 
oj ^ 
P( 

<^ 

0^ 



WWW 



o< 



CM 

CM 

ON 



ON 



CM 
CM 

ON 



0) 

Q 

13 

d 

o3 



M O 



o 





ro 


^ 


ro 


CO 


M 


s; 


ro 


(N 


r^ 


ro 


S 


■«s» 


ON 


ON 


ON 


On 


<D 





tH 


M 


M 


M 





s 

03 



bO 

d 



tn 

8^ 

>N 55 

T3 o3 

ct! X) 

^ bo 
tn 'O 



Ph 



3 
P- 

d 

3 



^n^ W 









CO d < -^ 

H 



ro 
ro 

ON 



CM 

ON 



ON 
M 

r 
O 

<3N 

tM 



CO 

On 



ON 

00 



" h tn 

K O <u 

o t;? .y 

ffi Ph 



ro 
to 

ON 



ro 

CM 

On 






3 





d 


•0 
3 




>^ 














Pi 


j3 









!3 


(]J ►/" 


s 


•^ 3 


c 


HS 





> 



■a 
■ c 

■« S 





tn 


m 




X) 


X) 


>. 


d 


d 


4^ 


^ 


o3 


c 


;h 


'u 


3 


tU 


4) 





rd 


-d 



(D 



<u 



d 

/3 



W 






tn 
bO 
bo 
m 



W 



tn 


tn tn 


X) 


X) TO 


d 


d d 


^ 


_rt _rt 






TI 


Tl Tl 


<u 


D <U 


rd 


43 43 


-(-> 


-t-> +-» 


<u 


o; OJ 


^ 


^2; 



,a MH 03 

U <D bo 

O <U 3 

Ph pq c/2 



Ph §^ c/:i "^ 



pp 



tn tn t3 

XI X) O d 

d d -*^ rt 

03 03 



u u 

43 43 

aj D 
^2 



iH U 

3 3 
O O 

q3 q3 

O O 

+-' +-1 
o3 03 

4-> -1-1 

o o 

(In Ph 



tn 






tn 

a; 

-M 

03 

-M 

3 aj 
13 -I-' 
bo-g 



tn 

aj 

o! 

XI 
+-> 
'd 

U 



in 

<D 
+-■ 

03 
-(-> 
CAl 

73 
aj 

'd 



aj 

03 
+-> 
CAl 

13 
0) 
-l-J 

'd 

P 







d 











iH 


H-t 


4s^ 


3 


03 


a; 


IH 


bo 


0) 





p 


pq 


CM 


S 


m 



i-i 

u 
O 
> 



3 ^ 
'be d 



pq 



tn 

OJ 

o 



-M bo t; 

o 3 3 

Ph c/} m 



d 

'n 

PQ 

o3 
a» 

o 



0) 
OJ 

f-] 
U 



•^ 1-1 



'd o 

c <u 
c3.2 

3 I- 

o.> 

1 2 

(8 O, 



— 193 — 

demand, and butter an elasticity of about i in both examples. 
The relatively high meat elasticities are probably related to the 
considerable substitution possibilities. Of the non-protective foods 
included, sugar shows a fairly low elasticity in two out of the 
three examples, and potatoes even show a positiveel asticity— 
i.e., a rise or fall in price was found to be accompanied by a move- 
ment of consumption in the same direction. Other calculations 
regarding non-protective foods have been made by Professor 
ScHULTZ,^ which show, on the whole, low price elasticities; he 
obtained the following elasticities for wheat, sugar and potatoes 
in the United States at three consecutive periods: 

1875-1895 1896-1914 1915-1929 

Wheat 0.13 o.oi 0.27 

Sugar 0.38 0.27 0.31 

Potatoes 0.66 0.27 0.31 

In every case except one covered in the table on page 191 a 
negative elasticity was found — i.e., a fall in price led, ceteris paribus, 
to an increase in the amount demanded, and vice versa. The one 
exception was the very small positive price elasticity for potatoes 
already mentioned. Apart from the possibility of a change in tastes, 
this could be explained by the fact that a fall in the price of potatoes 
enabled Belgian workers to satisfy their most pressing hunger more 
cheaply than before, so that money became available for the partial 
replacement of potatoes by other foods. Similarly, a rise in potato 
prices involves a fall in real income, and may be accompanied by the 
increase in the relative or absolute consumption of potatoes, which 
is a not unusual accompaniment of a reduction in real income. - 

9. Several different methods of establishing demand curves are 
represented in the above list. Most calculations have been based 
on national consumption figures and retail (or occasionally whole- 
sale) prices. Two, however, have made use of family budget data; 
families with " equivalent incomes " (established by means of a 
special cost-of-living index ^ have been selected from successive 



1 Professor H. Schultz: "The Shifting Demand for Selected Agricultural 
Commodities, 1875-1929 ", Journal of Farm Economics, April 1932. 

2 An analogous case of a positive price elasticity for margarine in Germany was 
pointed out by Singer and Ross [Inst. d'Hyg. de I'Univ. all. de Prague, t. II, 1932). 

3 The method of calculating equivalent incomes at different periods is described 
by H. Staehle in " A Development of the Economic Theory of Price Index 
Numbers ", Review of Economic Studies, June 1935. 

13 



— 194 — 

family budget enquiries, and the relation between retail prices and 
the consumption of these families has been observed. This method 
makes it possible to calculate the elasticities of demand pertaining 
to different income groups, which is likely to be of more importance 
for nutrition policy than the elasticity for the market as a whole; 
the method is, however, applicable only in countries where extensive 
family budget studies have been made at fairly close intervals, 
since otherwise changes in taste may obscure the true price elasticity. 

10. In explaining the consumption of any particular article 
of food, other factors besides its own price may play an important 
role. Among the main factors to be taken into account are the 
distribution of families by income and the prices (or supplies) of 
goods whose consumption is related to that of the commodity in 
question. Changes in tastes leading to a long-term shift in the 
whole demand curve may be taken into account, either by intro- 
ducing " time " as a specific variable or by eliminating a trend 
in other variables.^ 

11. The diagram on the opposite page shows total demand 
curves for butter and cheese in the British market, after the influence 
of income has been eliminated : ^ 

The studies made showed that, during the period covered, 
whatever the price prevailing, arise or fall in the price of butter of id. 
per lb. decreased or increased demand, on the average, by the same 
absolute amount — 39,000 cwt. — and that a rise or fall in the price of 



^ Cf. Henry Schultz: " The Shifting Demand for Selected Agricultural Com- 
modities, 1875-1929 ", Journal of Farm Economics, April 1932. 

2 From R. Cohen, " The History of Milk Prices ", Oxford, 1936. Data covering 
the years from 1923 to 1933 yielded the following multiple correlation equations: 

Pg = 20.0374 — 0.002559 Qjj -f- 0.1634 M 
and Pp = 23.4626 — 0.007496 Qp -j- 0.17544 M 

where P and P represent the price in pence per lb. of salt butter and cheese 
respectively; Q and Q the total supplies of butter and cheese in thousand cwt. 
and M an index of spending power (1933 = 100). To obtain the influence of price 
on consumption by itself, the 1933 value of the purchasing power index was inserted 
in each equation, and the retail prices from 1923 to 1933 corrected to allow for changes 
in purchasing power during the period. The resulting demand curves were 

Pb = 372780 — 0.002559 Qg 
and P^ = 41.0067 — 0.007496 Q^ 



— 195 — 

cheese of id. per lb. decreased or increased demand, on the average, 
by 133,000 cwt. Since the change provoked by a given change in 
price remained constant whatever the absolute level of consumption, 
it is obvious that the elasticity [i.e., relation of proportionate change in 
demand to proportionate change in price) was greater when total 
consumption was relatively low (and prices high) than when total 
consumption was relatively high (and prices low). It may be 
presumed that the greater the consumption the nearer has satia- 
tion-point been reached, so that the less is the inducement to 
increase purchases as a result of lower prices, and conversely the 
greater the tendency to reduce purchases as a result of higher prices. 



Diagram IV. 

Relation between Retail Prices and Total Supplies of Butter and Cheese 
WHEN Spending Power is maintained as in 1933 (United Kingdom 1923-1933). 



BEURRE -BUTTER 



FROMAGE -CHEESE 




PRICE 
d perib 



»|<J23 






>y^^ 


• iQ26 


- 


1924, ^S 


V #"'25 
^^^ « 1928 






i920^^ 


• 1930 . 




• 10?7 ^ 


S«I932 


1 


• 1931 


.933, 

1 



14 



12 



10 



'5 6 7 6 9 10 n 

Quantites disponibles en millions de Cwt 



3.6 3,8 40 

Totol supplies in Cwt (000,000's) 



12. Little exact information is available regarding the elasticity 
of demand for milk, but, in general, the response of consumption 
to changes in price has been found to be fairly low. In New York 
City between 1919 and 1924, it was recorded that eleven decreases 
of I cent per quart in the retail price of the staple type of milk 
retailed (an average price change of 61/2%) were followed by 



— 196 — 

average increases in the sales of six of the largest distributors of 
only 0.6% of normal sales; in the same period, ten price increases 
of I cent (representing an average price change of 7%) were fol- 
lowed by decreases of sales of only 0.4% of normal sales. It 
appeared, however, that, when the price rose above a certain 
level (about 17 cents per quart), a sudden increase in elasticity 
occurred; a price rise of 2 cents to 18 cents per quart was on one 
occasion followed by a decline in consumption by 6.5 % of the normal 
level, and a rise in price of i cent (also to 18 cents) was on another 
occasion followed by a fail of 5 % in demand.^ 

13. So far as can be gathered from the very sparse data avail- 
able, the elasticity of demand for liquid milk in England appears 
to be somewhat greater than that in the United States. This is 
probably related to the relatively low per caput consumption in the 
former country. " A number of large retailers state that the spring 
fall of id. a quart usually stimulates their sales by anything from 
5 to 20%, this increase being lost again in winter ".^ Part of this 
reaction may be due to a seasonal change in demand unrelated 
to price. 

The Milk Reorganisation Commission Report ^ expresses some 
doubts regarding the apparent inelasticity of demand for milk 
in England. It points out that the long-term effects of price 
changes are probably greater than suggested by the recent main- 
tenance of demand in the face of an increase in milk prices. 

" Any increase in the retail price of milk is bound to be a matter 
of moment to consumers, and particularly to those whose budget 
allowed for only a small quantity of fresh milk even before the 
rise in price. The price increases have necessarily had their 
greatest effect on the poorest consumers — that is, on those whose 
consumption was already far below the general standard for the 
country ".^ 



1 H. A. Ross: "The Demand Side of the Milk Market". Bull. 450, Cornell 
University Agricultural Experiment Station, 1927; quoted in R. Cohen, " A Survey 
of MUk Marketing Schemes and Price Policies", Univ. of Cambridge, Dept. of 
Agriculture, Farm Economics Branch Report No. 20, 1933. 

2 R. B. Forrester: "The Fluid Milk Market in England and Wales". Min. 
of Agriculture and Fisheries, Economic Series, No. 16, 1927, page 109. 

^ Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Economic Series No. 44, 1936. 
'Op. cit., pages 109 and no. 



— 197 — 

"The [Consumers'] Committee has expressed to us the opinion 
that a reduction in the price of milk would lead to increased con- 
sumption and that, in view of the benefits that such increased 
consumption would have on the health of the community, every 
endeavour to this end should be made." 

It would nevertheless appear that, in view of the vital impor- 
tance of assuring an adequate level of milk consumption, too much 
reliance should not be placed on price policy as a means of stimulat- 
ing demand. Other methods, in particular publicity and free or 
subsidised distribution of milk to certain sections of the community, 
may be called for to supplement and reinforce the policy of reducing 
milk prices. 

14. The availability of substitutes for fresh milk and cream, 
such as condensed or dried milk and tinned cream, may tend to 
increase their elasticity of demand. An example of the sub- 
stitution of skimmed for full milk following a price increase is 
reported from a local Consumers' Co-operative Society in Graz, 

Austria. 

Table III. 

Prices and Sales of Full and Skimmed Milk (Graz, Austria). 





Full milk 






Skimmed 


milk 








Price 


Sales 


Price 




Sales 






Groschen 


Litres 


Groschen 




Litres 


1933 


. . . . 


36 


230,000 


10 




— 


1934 


. . . . 


42 


112,000 


10 




1.635 


1935 


.... 


42 


81,000 


10 




4,204 


1936 


. . . . 


42 


79,000 


10 




12,222 



15. The importance of the elasticity of substitution in another 
sphere may be illustrated by the reactions of consumers to changes 
in the relative prices of various meats. ^ Beef, mutton and pork 
serve roughly similar purposes, both from the point of view of 
nutrition and from that of the palate. The responses of consumers 
to changes in meat prices in the United States and in Canada are 
shown in Diagram V below. 

16. The more perfect the substitute, the greater the elasticity 
of demand. Diagram VI shows the influence on consumption 
of movements in the relative price of two sorts of butter (almost 
perfect substitutes) sold in the United Kingdom. 



^ See also Part III, Chapter i, paragraph 27, above. 



— 198 — 



Diagram V. 

Prices and Consumption of Various Meats. 

Prices deflated by total 
food cost index: 
A Beef and veal 
B Pork 
C Mutton and lamb 

(1922 = 100.) 



Consumption : 
D Beef and veal 
E Pork 
F Mutton and lamb 







130 
120 
1 1 
lOO 

90 

60 
70 

SON 

7316 


. 40 

i30 
120 
1 lO 
lOO 

00 

80 
















-^'''^ 






CI 














/^ 


v.// 


kp 


"~" 


"^^ 














/ 




A 




















/ 




/^ 


V 
















i 


/ 


/ 




\ 
















/ 




y 




\ 


V 






,•••■• 


\ 




X — 


^^ 


^ 


a^ 


B 




\ 


E 





• 
> 


\ 






i^: 


<^ 


^: 


... 'N 


.V. 


...-N^ 


V 




^s=: 




t^^' 


;1J> 


f-*^ 




> 


s. 


\ 




\ 


^. 


/ 




• 








<^v 


• 








v^ 


-y 






\ 


\ 






\ 


\ 
















v_ 








\ 


^ * 


/ 


















— ^m MM 


-^^ 


C^^. 
























"^* 




























1922 1923 1924 1925 1926 1927 1926 1929 1930 1931 1932 1933 



Prices deflated by total 
food cost index: 
A Beef 
B Veal 
C Pork 



Consumption : 
D Beef and veal 
E Pork 



{1925 = 100.) 



100 



90 



80 



CANADA 




100 



ao 



1925 1926 1927 1928 1929 1930 1931 1932 1933 1934 son 



— 199 — 

It appears that, whenever the price of Danish and Dutch butter 
rises relatively to that from Australia and New Zealand, the butter 
imports from Denmark and the Netherlands show a relative fall and 



Diagram VI. 

Prices and Consumption of Empire and Foreign Butter 
IN THE United Kingdom. 

Average of prices of Danish and Dutch butter 



B 



Average price of all butter. 
Butter imports from Denmark and the Netherlands 
Total butter imports. 




Average of price of Australian and New Zealand butter 
Average price of all butter. 
Butter imports from Australia and New Zealand 
Total butter imports. 



1 I O 

lOO 

90 
50 

40 

30 



'_ x^ C '_ 



^r^ — -rs x::^' : 



I 1 o 

lOO 

90 
50 

40 

30 



1922 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 1936 

S0N7314 



those from Australia and New Zealand a rise ; the contrary movement 
follows a fall in the relative price of Danish and Dutch butter. 
The fact that, in spite of the good correlation, the elasticity is not 
higher implies that consumers either do not regard European and 
Australasian butter as exactly the same commodity, or else that 
they are slow to react to changes in relative prices. 



— 200 — 

17- The influence of prices on consumption is of importance in 
connection with seasonal differences in diet. Certain foods, parti- 
cularly those of high nutritive quality, such as dairy products, 
fruit and vegetables, are subject to considerable seasonal fluctuations 
in supply and price. The result is frequently to produce variations 
in the consumption of important nutrients which by no means 
correspond to changes in physiological requirements. 

Diagram VIII shows the seasonal movement of the prices paid 
and of the consumption of butter and eggs by workers and officials' 
families in Prague. ^ It may be noted that more extreme seasonal 
fluctuations appear in the butter consumption of workers than in 
that of officials. 

It would appear possible to iron out to some extent excessive 
seasonal movements in consumption by improved methods of 
conservation and storage and by spreading information both 
regarding these techniques and regarding seasonal price movements. 

i8. The responsiveness of consumption to changes in prices 
may be different according to the direction in which the change 
takes place. Situations may arise where, for instance, a small 
reduction in price leads to a considerable expansion of consumption, 
but where a subsequent rise in price is not followed by a corre- 
sponding fall in consumption. The reason may be that a habit has 
been formed, so that deprivation of the commodity has become a 
greater hardship than before the pleasures of increased consumption 
had been tasted. 

19. It is clear that elasticity of demand in general can be 
influenced to a considerable degree by nutritional education of 
consumers. It may be expected that, as a realisation of the 
essential nature of the nutritive qualities of protective foods 
becomes widespread among the consuming public, not only will 
the absolute amount of their consumption increase, but also its 
elasticity will become less — i.e., consumption will be less likely 
to fall off as a result of small rises in price. So long as fruit and 
fresh vegetables are regarded as delicacies, and butter merely as 
a slightly better tasting equivalent to margarine, one may expect 
a sharp shrinkage in demand to follow a rise in the prices of these 



^ From Mitteilungen des Statistischen Staatsamtes der T schechoslowakischen 
Republik, 1 93 1, Nos. 33-36. 



— 201 — 

Diagram VII. 

Seasonal Movement of Prices and Consumption: 
Butter and Eggs. 

Czechoslovakia. 

Consumption per consumption unit for: 

A Officials. C Workers. 

Price paid by : 

B Officials. D Workers. 



160 

150 

140 

130 

120 

no 

lOO 

90 

SO 

70 

eo 

50 
160 

150 

140 

150 

120 

no 

100 

90 

SO 

70 

60 

50 

















r OPI 'CC 


-EGO*^ 










P 


^ 






V./C 
















'r- 


.N 


1 


















/> 


• 
1 


\ 


\. 
















\^ 


// 

Mm 






MN 






..—• • 





,.••• 

-^ 




■\ 


p 






c\,| 


\-. 


..-" 

V-"^ 


»'"'" " 










\ 






.?••-: 


:^ 












/ 


V 


'»*nt^< 


«-i;^ 






1 


'. 




j« 


^/ 




















^ 





















































m 


EURP 


>C _ B 


;ui 1 


cn 




Z-' 


IK 










Ol 


cc "E 


cR 


> 


/ 


i^ 


^ 


















y 


< 

/ 


\ 

• 


\ 


















/ 


i 

• 

/ 


V 

• 


\ 














.*•••' 


->! 


r 

,D 


• 

/ 




> 
ft 


\ 






\ 





;^ 


*•* 


r^-. 


>> 


I' 




rl 


•\r 


' 


^ 




^ 


-*^ 






S":< 


^^- 


9 ^* 




1 ^^ 
















/ 






1 


^^^•^ 














• 

/ 


r^ 










"""^ 


•^ 


•«. 




/*"** 


^ _!-«« 


**»• 
















^ 


■^•' 























IV 



VI VII VIII IX 



XI XII 

SON 



160 
150 
140 
130 
120 

no 

100 

90 

SO 

70 

60 

SO 
160 

150 

140 

130 

120 

no 
too 

90 
60 
70 
60 
50 

7324 



— 202 — 

commodities; but, if it is realised that these foodstuffs serve to 
build up resistance to disease and promote general health in a 
way that other, cheaper foods do not, efforts will be made, in so 
far as incomes permit, to meet a rise in their prices by economising 
on other less vital expenditures. 

In short, with an expansion in the consumption of protective 
foods to more nearly adequate levels, and with the spread of 
nutritional knowledge, it may be expected that the elasticity of 
demand for protective foods will grow to resemble more closely 
that of the non-protective foods. 

20. The elasticity of demand is dependent partly on the level 
of income.^ The type of dependence will, however, vary according 
to the nature of the commodity. In the case of most foodstuffs, 
where satiation tends to be reached at relatively low incomes, it 
may be expected that elasticity will decrease with increasing con- 
sumers' incomes. For commodities for which efficient substitutes 
are available, however, elasticity might be greater for higher 
incomes, where expenditure is spread over a larger range of items, 
thereby increasing the scope for substitution. ^ 

21. The fact that elasticity of demand for protective foods is 
likely to be higher among the lower-income groups of the commun- 
ity, and that it is precisely these groups which are in most danger 
of malnutrition, suggests that consideration should be given to 
the possibility of discriminating prices as a means of stimulating 
consumption in certain cases. It may be that a small reduction 
in the general price of milk would not lead to an appreciable 
expansion of consumption, while a somewhat larger reduction 
applied to a small section of the market whose milk consumption 
was particularly inadequate might have better results, at the same, 
or even less, cost to producers or to the State. This consideration 
has led authorities in several countries to supply milk at much 
reduced prices to children in schools, to nursing and expectant 
mothers, or to the unemployed. For instance, a scheme for 



1 It is for this reason that particular importance should be attached to methods 
of calculating the elasticity of demand, such as that mentioned in paragraph 9 
above by means of which the elasticities referring to specific income levels 
can be obtained. 

2 Cf. BowLEY and Allen: " Family Expenditure" (London, 1935. page 125). 



— 203 — 

supplying milk to children and mothers in a depressed area 
(Rhondda Valley) in Wales at 2d. per pint is financed by reducing 
the distributors' margin from lod. to M. per gallon and granting 
a subsidy of 3 ^<^. per gallon from the Commissioner for the Special 
Areas. In the Netherlands, preserved meat, margarine, fresh 
vegetables and fish have been distributed to the unemployed at 
prices considerably below those ruling in the market. In the United 
States, the principle of " class prices " has been introduced in 
several fields of the economy. 

Price discrimination may be financed by subsidy, by charging 
higher prices on part of the sales, or by a differentiation of presenta- 
tion or of the service of distribution. Thus, bread or milk may 
be sold more cheaply over the counter than when delivered at the 
door. 



— 204 — 

Chapter 4. 

FACTORS INFLUENCING FOOD PRICES. 



A. Introductory. 

1. In the previous chapter, some indications have been given 
of the influence of food prices on consumption ; it remains now to 
consider the main factors determining the level of food prices. 

2. In general, price may be regarded as an index of the degree 
to which potential demand for a commodity can be satisfied by the 
available sources of supply. The previous chapters have shown 
the influence of a number of factors affecting the potential demand 
for certain foodstuffs (for example, movements of incomes, an 
increased desire for " protective foods " and a relative or absolute 
decrease in the demand for non-protective foods) and, at the same 
time, other factors affecting the availability of supplies (for example, 
technical progress in production and transport, developments in 
commercial policy, etc.). These influences on the supply and 
demand side have reacted mutually on one another through the 
medium of price. In Chapters 5 and 6, the income and education 
influences on the demand side are discussed. In the paragraphs 
which follow, a brief account is given of the factors determining 
the conditions of supply of foodstuffs. These may be roughly 
classified under four heads : technical costs of production ; commer- 
cial policy; production and price policy; and costs of distribution 
(including marketing and transport). 

B. Efficiency and Cost of Production. 

3. In Chapter 3, it has been demonstrated that lower food 
prices to the consumer {i.e., cheaper calories) tend — money incomes 
and other things being equal — to result in an increase in the 
consumption of protective foods, while higher food prices are 
likely to have the opposite effect. It by no means follows from this 
demonstration, however, that the way to secure a general all-round 
improvement in nutritional standards is to force down the price 



— 205 — 

which farmers and other producers of primary foods get for their 
products to non-economic levels. Farmers also eat; and no one 
would wish that they should eat less or worse in order that the 
industrial population eat better. Moreover, from the point of 
view of general welfare, the prosperity and purchasing power of 
the buyers of food are intimately bound up with the prosperity of 
the producers of food. If the latter have their incomes cut through 
reductions in price uncompensated by reductions in cost, they are 
clearly less able to buy industrial goods; and the employment, 
income and nutrition of industrial workers are likely to be adversely 
affected. If cheap food were in itself a panacea, the years 1930 to 
1933 would have represented a millennial period in many countries. 

4. It may therefore be taken as axiomatic that a comprehensive 
and well-considered nutrition policy should not be of a nature to 
cause losses to food producers, nor should its effect be to force the 
prices of food products below levels which cover the costs ^ of the 
marginal producer whose output is required to meet current 
demand and give him a fair return on his labour and investment. 

5. The income of the producer depends upon the relationship 
between the price he obtains, his costs of production, including 
fixed charges and taxation, and his volume of sales. The return 
to the farmer will fall if prices decline as a result of " external " 
factors or if costs are increased. One of the main factors bringing 
about the drastic fall in agricultural prices during the depression 
was the cumulative falling-off of monetary demand; it would seem 
to be an important task of policy to prevent excessive fluctuations 
in producers' prices originating in this way. Among the factors 
tending to increase costs in recent years, special reference must 
be made to the burden of taxation. Fiscal policy necessarily plays 
an important part in influencing producers' costs and consequently 
food prices. Where a fall in prices is due, not to a shrinkage of 
demand, but to increased production accompanied by a reduction 
in costs, no loss to the producer is involved. On the contrary, 
the consumption of his product is likely to rise with the reduction 
in price: more will be sold and the return to the producer will be 
increased. 



^ The problems raised by the differences in costs of production in differen 
countries are reserved for separate treatment in the next section. 



— 206 — 

6. It is therefore clear that, from the point of view of nutrition 
poHcy, as well as from the point of view of the interests of 
agriculture, great importance is to be attached to any steps 
which can be taken to increase the efficiency of food production 
and distribution and so enable food prices to be lowered without 
reducing the net return to the producer. The factors determining 
efficiency and cost of production are varied and complex; and it 
is not possible to do more than stress the importance of this question 
here. In the previous chapters, several examples have been given 
of remarkable improvements in agricultural methods which have 
occurred in recent decades. The effect of these improvements is 
to reduce costs and make greater supplies available at a given 
price than previously. There remains great scope for the appli- 
cation of scientific knowledge and the increased use of fertilisers 
in agriculture in practically all parts of the world. Through 
encouraging improvements in agricultural technique. Governments 
and agricultural co-operative societies can make an important 
contribution to raising general nutritional levels.^ In this con- 
nection, the education of the agricultural population is of primary 
importance. The countries where the greatest advances in effi- 
ciency have been made in recent years are those, such as Denmark, 
where the standard of education among the rural population attains 
a very high level. 

C. Commercial Policy. 

7. In addition to efficiency of production, the conditions under 
which foreign food supplies are allowed to enter national markets 
constitute an important influence on food prices. These conditions 
as expressed through commercial policy, determine the extent to 
which such benefits as can be obtained from the international division 
of labour in food production may be enjoyed by consumers in general. 

8. It would go beyond the scope of this report to attempt to 
give a detailed account of the development of the international 
trade in foodstuffs and of the interferences with that trade. 
Differences in the efficiency and cost of agricultural and other 



^ For an exposition of the important part played by agricultural co-operative 
societies in increasing the output and improving the quality of certain foods, see 
International Inter-Co-operative Committee: " The Co-operative Movement and 
Better Nutrition " (published by International Labour Office, Geneva, 1937). 



— 207 — 

torms of primary production in different parts of the world led 
to a great expansion of the trade in basic foods in the course of 
the nineteenth century and early twentieth century; with the 
development of transport and refrigeration, supplies could be 
drawn from parts of the world where natural or technical conditions 
were most favourable. It has been argued in Part III, Chapter i, 
above that this broadening of the area of supply was one of the 
principal factors accounting for the improvement in nutrition 
standards in Europe. One need only consider the influence which 
the international trade in wheat, meat, butter and citrus fruits 
exercised on the standards of consumption in some countries to be 
impressed with the importance of this factor. 

9. In many European countries, however, the cheap foreign 
supplies were regarded as threatening the stability of domestic 
agricultural S3^stems, and protective tariffs against food imports 
began to spread on the Continent in the last quarter of the nineteenth 
century. Thus, the German tariff of 1879 imposed greatly increased 
duties on grain and live-stock. A moderate tariff instituted in 
France in 1881 soon gave way to higher duties on wheat, other 
cereals, flour, live-stock and meat. Italy, Austria-Hungary and 
Switzerland all protected their agricultural systems. The United 
Kingdom stood clear of the protectionist movement until recent 
years. Denmark, maintaining a system of free trade except for 
cheese, shifted from cereal to dairy production and animal hus- 
bandry; her example was followed by the Netherlands — where 
low duties were imposed on food imports, while grains, feeding-stuffs, 
bacon, pork and mutton were admitted free — and, to a lesser 
extent, by Belgium, where a low tariff was imposed, favouring 
live-stock. Towards the beginning of the present century, world 
prices of agricultural produce started to rise rapidly, and there 
was no noticeable increase of agricultural protection in Europe in 
the decade preceding the great war. 

10. Though agricultural protection is not a new phenomenon, 
food duties in pre-war and immediate post-war Europe must be 
characterised as moderate compared with the situation which has 
developed during the past decade. Not only have import restric- 
tions become much more severe in the countries which formerly 
afforded a limited protection to their food-producers, but the 



— 208 — 

United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Denmark and Belgium have 
abandoned their traditional low-tariff or free-trade policies. 

It is difficult to set an exact date to the beginning of the present 
phase of agricultural protection in Europe: the principal develop- 
ment occurred during the period of economic depression beginning 
in 1929 ; but the tendency can be discerned as early as 1925. When 
Germany regained her full tariff autonomy in that year, she reim- 
posed high duties on food imports, and these were continually 
raised during the next four years. French duties on agricultural 
products were raised in 1926 and 1927; Italy reimposed a wheat 
duty in 1925, which was raised in subsequent years. 

II. After the middle of 1929, restrictions began to multiply and 
spread. The facts regarding the recent development of agricultural 
protection are so well known that it is unnecessary to recount them 
in detail. The Economic Committee of the League of Nations has 
recently studied this question, and the following passages are 
extracted from its report : ^ 

" For several years after the close of hostilities, Europe continued to import 
considerable quantities of agricultural products — particularly cereals and meat — ■ 
her return to her former productive capacity having been retarded by a series of 
concomitant causes, such as the Russian revolution and numerous agrarian reforms. 

" But directly her producing capacity was again restored, about 1925, the balance 
between supply and demand was broken; prices were already on the downgrade, 
and the full force of the collapse was felt from 1930 onwards. 

" Exporting countries with a surplus of goods had to bear the full shock of this 
catastrophe, against which they possessed only one means of defence — a useful 
means at first, but one which was later to constitute an additional danger — namely, 
to slow down the marketing of their crops by accumulating stocks. 

" On the other hand, agricultural producers in the importing countries with a 
shortage of crops were obliged to appeal to their Governments and to national 
solidarity in order to escape the contagion. This means they have used, and 
abused: the introduction of duties two or three times higher than world prices, 
ever stricter rationing, the progressive reduction to close upon vanishing-point 
of the proportion of foreign products admitted in the various preparations, bounties 
for production, export bounties, ' schemes ', monopolies and various other forms 
of planned economy. 

" These Draconian measures, which, quite apart from the disorder which they 
caused in the delicate and complex mechanism of the balance of international 
accounts, tend to create as many different price regimes as there are protectionist 
countries and thus delay a return to the essential system of non-watertight 



^ League of Nations, Economic Committee: " Considerations on the Present 
Evolution of Agricultural Protectionism " (Geneva, 1935). 



— 209 — 

compartments, were followed by a whole series of difficulties, perhaps less serious but 
almost as irksome. Quotas have to be allocated as between the countries; hence 
the danger of discrimination. Quotas have to be allocated as between the traders, 
and allocation is necessarily synonymous with delay, confusion, error, abuse, de facto 
monopoly and sometimes corruption. The whole body of sanitary measures, 
applied with the utmost severity, creates a suspicion that those measures have 
economic objects, and one cannot understand why international co-operation, 
which is making such strides in the matter of human hygiene, should remain 
powerless in regard to animal hygiene. 

" The consequence of all these measures, applied more particularly by the big 
industrial countries, was naturally a big-scale reduction, amounting in some cases 
to the total exclusion, of agricultural imports, and that more particularly in the 
case of products — such as wheat, meat and butter — playing a fundamental part 
in the economic life of the producing countries. 

" Had it achieved its object, it would be difficult indeed to criticise [this policy] ; 
but facts are to hand which prove that this exaggerated policy of protectionism, 
spreading from one country to another, is tending to prolong the depression which 
it was designed to combat and to prejudice the interests of the classes that it aimed 
at protecting. In its present extreme form, it no longer has anything in common 
with a moderate protectionism, which is quite compatible with the normal func- 
tioning of international trade. 

" With the advent of the economic depression which set in in 1929, the majority 
of countries, threatened by the complete breakdown of international economic 
equilibrium, sought a remedy in the application of methods which were useful 
only when they did not exceed certain limits. There thus ensued, first, a progressive 
increase of duties, followed by the establishment of a system of restrictions practi- 
cally excluding all imports of certain important agricultural commodities. 

" The inevitable consequences of these methods were not slow in making them- 
selves felt. Several important countries which in previous years had still imported 
large quantities of wheat and other cereals increased their production so as fully 
to cover their requirements. Often, indeed, they found themselves with large 
excess amounts, which led to the collapse of prices and obliged the Government to 
dip into State funds again in order to constitute stocks, give bonuses for denatura- 
tion, export, etc. Milliards are being spent in this way because, having benefited 
for a long time by artificially increased prices, the farmers have naturally been 
led to increase by every possible means a production thus privileged. 

" On the basis of post-war experience, it is safe to afi&rm, without fear of contra- 
diction, that an industrial country, which always requires to maintain the closest 
relations with other countries, will never be in a better position than if it succeeds, 
by means of moderate protection, in keeping the prices of the chief agricultural 
commodities, and particularly wheat, at a reasonable level which will prevent 
over-production and enable it to retain the ample possibilities in regard to agri- 
cultural imports. This policy is undoubtedly the wisest, both in time of peace 

and in anticipation of possible conflicts." 

14 



— 210 — 

12. The principal motives behind the recent increase in res- 
trictions on food imports have been the desire to defend national 
agricultural systems and maintain the farmers' income; the safe- 
guarding or improvement of trade — in some cases with a view to 
securing an export surplus in order to pay the service of foreign 
debts, and in others to protect the foreign-exchange reserves and 
prevent currency depreciation; the desire for economic self-suffi- 
ciency (autarchy) ; revenue considerations, especially in the case 
of duties on colonial products, such as tea and coffee; and, finally, 
retaliation against foreign tariffs or against dumping. 

13. The methods adopted for protecting agriculture have under- 
gone a considerable evolution during recent years. Before the 
war, and up to 1929, tariffs were the principal method used in 
restricting imports. In recent years, not only have tariffs been 
raised to record levels in most European importing countries, but 
they have also been supplemented by other and more drastic 
methods of restricting imports which insulate domestic price-levels 
more completely from the movement of world prices. Among 
the most important of these direct methods are quantitative res- 
trictions on imports in the form of quotas or contingents. Rarely 
used before the depression, this type of restriction became increas- 
ingly important after the financial crisis of 1931. Its use was most 
general in the countries maintaining their currencies at the gold 
parity without exchange control, and quotas were applied to a 
wide range of foodstuffs in F^rance, the Netherlands, Switzerland 
and Poland. Since the devaluation of the currencies of the first 
three countries, there has been some tendency to enlarge certain 
quotas and allow more foreign goods to be imported in order to 
prevent too rapid a rise in the cost of living; the quota system is, 
however, maintained. 

14. Another method of restriction which has become quite 
common in parts of Europe in recent years is the licensing of imports, 
which is sometimes used in connection with the quota system and 
sometimes as an independent method of administrative protection. 
Under this method, a Government licence is required in order to 
import. In the United Kingdom, a licensing system is in force in 
connection with the meat quotas; in France, it is used in connection 
with the wheat quota and milling regulations; in Czechoslovakia, 



— 211 — 

the licensing of imports of wheat and rye is in the hands of the Grain 
Monopoly. 

15. It is not necessary to describe here all the methods of agri- 
cultural protectionism, such as milling regulations, sanitary regula- 
tions and import monopolies. Special reference must, however, 
be made to exchange control. Originally imposed to control 
capital flight and prevent exchange depreciation, the official control 
of foreign-exchange transactions has become a protective device 
of great severity and effectiveness in certain European countries. 
Closely connected with exchange control is the system of clearing 
agreements; the tendency of these agreements is to equalise trade 
between the two countries concluding them, even at the cost of one 
country buying goods at relatively high prices. Though they are 
intended as an alleviation of exchange control, they may, therefore 
have the effect of raising food prices to the consumer of the food- 
importing country. 

Effects of Agricultural Protectionism. 

16. The effects of the restrictions on the international trade 
in food are of two kinds: first, on the volume of trade, prices and 
consumption and, second, on the volume and kind of production 
and the structure of domestic agricultural systems. 

It can easily be shown that trade restrictions must normally 
increase consumers' prices under the conditions of supply and 
demand that usually prevail for foodstuffs — i.e., conditions under 
which (i) an increase in price leads to a reduction of demand 
and (2) increased supplies are forthcoming only at higher prices.^ 



^ Fig. I. — Domestic 
supply. 



Prix. 
Price 




Fig. 2. — Foreign 
supply. 



Fig. 3. — Demand and total 
supply. 







D represents the demand curve of the importing country, S^^ its domestic supply 
curve (Figure i) for the commodity in question, and S^ the foreign supply curve 

\Note continued on following page . 



— 212 — 

It is not possible to demonstrate with scientific accuracy this obvious 
relation in concrete cases, because commercial policy is only one 
of several factors influencing prices. The relation does, moreover, 
not necessarily hold in all cases in the long run ; it is possible that 
temporary protection may facilitate the development of more 
efficient home production and thus eventually reduce prices. 



Table I. 

Retail Prices of Foods, in Swiss Francs. 









October 


1936 


• 
















Beef 




Pork 






















» 




Milk, 
unskim- 








Countries 


Wheat 


First 


Second 


First 


Second 




Fresh 


Fresh 


Dried 


(unweighted averages) 


flour 


quality quality quality quality 


Bacon 


med 


butter 


eggs 


peas 




(kg.) 


(kg.) 


(kg.) 


(kg.) 


(kg.) 


(kg.) 


(litre) 


(kg.) 


(units) 


(kg.) 


Argentine (Buenos Aires) 


0.28 


0.98 


0.86 


0.97 


0.88 


0.95 


0.17 


1.70 


0.05 


1.75 


Australia (2 towns) . . 


0.32 


1.46 


— 


1. 61 


— 


2.38 


0.42 


2.65 


0.09 


0.70 


Austria (2 towns) . . . 


0.60 


2.27 


1. 91 


2.64 


2.03 


2.36 


0.34 


3-74 


0.13 


0.80 


Belgium (Brussels) . . . 


— 


3-67 


1-59 


2-93 


1.80 


1.80 


0.22 


3.05 


0.13 


0.50 


Canada (6 towns) . . . 


0-39 


1. 81 


1. 17 


2.13 


1.98 


2.95 


0.42 


2.78 


0.12 


— 


Czechoslovakia (2 towns) 


0.43 


2.21 


1.74 


2.21 


1.78 


2.45 


0.24 


2.69 


O.II 


0.60 


Denmark (Copenhagen) . 


0.30 


2.29 


1.30 


1. 41 


— 


2.49 


0.31 


2.61 a 


O.II 


— 


Estonia (2 towns) . . . 


0.33 


0.86 


0.59 


1.04 


0.96 


1. 12 


0.14 


1.89 


0.05 


0.33 


France (5 towns) . . . 


0.64 


3-88 


1-53 


3.01 


3.09 


1-93 


0.30 


3-31 


0.17 


0.67 


Germany (5 towns) . . 


0.82 


— 


2.88 


— 


2.89 


3-89 


0.40 


5-40 


0.21 


1.22 


Great Britain (6 towns) 


0.37 


2.50 


1.27 


2.73 


2. — 


2.97 


0.53 


3.31 


0.16 


0.45 


Hungary (Budapest) . . 


0.23 


1.99 


1.64 


1.42 


1.28 


1.64 


0.22 


2.26 


0.08 


0.43 


Latvia (Riga) 


0.42 





53 


I 


01 


1.29 


0.14 


1.79 


0.09 


0.38 


Netherlands (4 towns) . 


0.47 


2.47 


2.19 


2.12 


1.49 


1.65 


0.23 


389 


0.12 


0.51 


New Zealand (3 towns) 


0.32 


1.36 


1. 13 


1-53 


1.53 


2.37 


0.32 


2.30 


0.09 


— 


Poland (3 towns) . . . 


0.41 


I 


14 


I 


16 


1.30 


0.17 


2.47 


0.08 


0.29 


Sweden (3 towns) . . . 


0.45 


2.26 


1.76 


2-34 


— 


2.41 


0.25 


2.98 a 


0.14 


0.46 


Switzerland (4 towns) . 


0.34 


3.28 


2.95 


3-55 


— 


3.88 


0.31 


4.76 


0.12 


0.60 


United States (8 towns) 


0.47 


2.73 


2.01 


3.48 


2.88 


4.01 


0.56 


3.91 


0.15 


0.87 


Yugoslavia (5 towns) 


0.29 


1.22 


0.92 


1.52 


1.22 


1.46 


0.25 


2.75 


O.IO 


I. — 


a Salted butter. 























Continuation of note on preceding pageJ] 

(Figure 2). In Figure 3, S is the total supply curve, formed by a horizontal 

addition of S and S„ and shows the amount of both home and foreign production 
forthcoming at various prices. Under conditions of free trade, the price will be PN, 
and consumption ON, determined by the intersection of the national demand curve 
with the total supply curve. If a specific tariff is imposed, the foreign, and therefore 
also the total, supply curve will be shifted upwards to the left {i.e., at any given 
price, a smaller amount will be brought on the market) to S'^ and S'^ ^ ^ respectively. 
Price is raised to P' N' and consumption reduced to ON'. An ad valorem duty can 
similarly be shown to raise price and reduce consumption. In the case of a quota, 
the foreign supply curve becomes perpendicular S''^, and the total supply curve 
S" runs parallel to the home supply. Price is raised to P" N" and consumption 

reduced to ON". In the case of an absolute import prohibition, the total supply 
curve becomes identical with the home supply ; price becomes P'" N'", and consump- 
tion only ON'". The effects of trade restrictions on a commodity of which there is 
no home supply is a special case of the above and can also be shown to involve 
price-raising and restriction of consumption. 



— 213 — 

17. In order to illustrate the extent of the differences in the retail 
prices of food in various countries, the table ^ above is given showing 
the prices of certain foods in twenty countries in October 1936. 

It is, of course, not to be expected that retail prices would be 
identical in all countries. Even if there were complete freedom 
of trade, the cost of transport and retailing would result in differ- 
ences. Moreover, there must be considerable differences in the 
quality of some of the foods represented in the above table. But 
these factors cannot account for the enormous international price 
discrepancies revealed in certain cases. These must be due in 
large measure to the restrictions which have been placed in the way 
of the international movements of food. 

18. The following table compares, for the world as a whole, 
the changes in the quantum of food production and international 
trade in foods since 1929. The indices are computed by the 
Economic Intelligence Service of the League of Nations. 

Table II. 

World Production of, and Trade in. Foodstuffs. 
(1929 = 100.) 

Production International 
of primary trade in 

Year foodstuffs foodstuffs 

1930 102 

I93I ICO 

1932 100 89 

1933 102 83 

1934 ^°^ ^2 

1935 loi 85 

1936 103 85 

World production of primary foods remained consistently above 
the 1929 level in subsequent years, while the quantum of inter- 
national trade in foods fell by as much as 15 % between 1929 and 
1933 and showed little or no recovery thereafter. These divergent 
movements reflect considerable changes in the geographical distri- 
bution of food production. The protection given to domestic 
producers stimulated food production in Europe, while the loss 

1 The prices on which this table is based are pubHshed in national currencies in 
the International Labour Review, March 1937. They have been converted to Swiss 
francs at the average rates of exchange prevailing in October 1936. In the case of 
Germany, the official rate of exchange has been used ; this has, of course, the effect 
of making the figures for that country relatively high. 



— 214 — 



of export markets resulted in some contraction of production in 
certain other parts of the world. The movements of primary food 
production and changes in the continental distribution are summar- 
ised below: 

Table III. 

World Production of Primary Foodstuffs, by Continents. 

Production of primary Geographical distribution of pro- 

foodstuSs duction of primary foodstufis 

(1925-1929 = loo) (Per cent of world production) 
1932 1935 1929 1932 1935 

Europe, excluding U.S.S.R. . . 

North America 

Asia 

Latin America 

Oceania 

Africa 



107 


115 


37-5 


38.9 


40.0 


100 


90 


21.0 


20.9 


18.8 


105 


lOI 


15-6 


16.0 


15-4 


100 


lOI 


8.2 


8.3 


8.4 


130 


133 


2.6 


3-2 


3-3 


116 


122 


2.2 


2.4 


2-5 



The main fact brought out in the above table is the steadily 
increasing importance of Europe as a centre of food production. 
The rise in European production is mainly due to the increased 
output in the industrial States which normally import a large part 
of their food requirements. The quantum of food imports into 
Germany, for example, was nearly 45 % less in 1935 than in 1929, 
and this decline was replaced — at least in part — by domestic pro- 
duction. Similarly, Italy imported over 40% less food in 1934 
than in 1929 and domestic production was greatly increased. 

19. From the point of view of nutrition, the significance of this 
shift in the geographical distribution of food production lies in the 
fact that the industrial States of Europe are unable to produce food 
of the type formerly imported as cheaply as the exporting countries. 
The consumer is therefore forced to pay a higher price for food than 
would be the case if a larger proportion were drawn from abroad ; 
and this higher price must, inevitably tend to restrict the consump- 
tion either of the particular foods affected or of other foods. 

20. In order to demonstrate that food prices have been kept at 
relatively high level in the countries which have restricted imports, 
it is not sufficient to concentrate attention merely on the absolute 
level of those prices, as they are influenced by other factors, such 
as currency policy and the general economic development, as well 
as commercial policy. It is preferable to study the relationship 
between food prices and other prices in order to show how the 
purchasing power of goods in general over food has changed. The 



— 215 — 

following table shows the yearly changes in the ratio of wholesale 

prices of food to wholesale prices of other commodities ^ in a 

number of countries — four of which export food and six of which 

are net importers. The relationship between the two series in 

1929 is taken as 100, and when the figures given are less than 100, 

that means that food prices were relatively low — i.e., that the 

purchasing power of other goods over food was greater than in 

1929, and vice versa. 

Table IV. 

Index of Cost of Food in Terms of "Other Commodities" at Wholesale. " 

(1929 = 100.) * 

Food-exporting countries 
Year Canada United States Denmark Australia 

1930 86 .97 98 91 

1931 77 94 89 69 

1932 72 85 87 68 

1933 76 80 87 66 

1934 84 85 87 71 

1935 86 100 91 74 

1936 90 96 79 

Food-importing countries 
United France Germany Italy Czecho- Switzerland 
Year Kingdom b Slovakia 

1930 IOC 105 103 109 III 115 

1931 lOI 125 116 122 108 125 

1932 103 146 123 143 106 118 

1933 95 125 119 126 125 112 

1934 94 ^°9 ^-^ ^^3 ^^^ ^°^ 

1935 96 108 120 128 113 105 

1936 96 124 119 118 133 113 

a Official price indices are used in each case. 

For the United States, the United Kingdom, Italy, Czechoslovakia and Switzerland, group indices of 
food prices have been available; for the other countries (except France), sub-groups showing price movements 
of particular categories of foods have been combined, without weighting, into a general index. For France, 
an index of agricultural products was used. These various indices were then divided by indices taken to 
represent the prices of commodities other than food. For the United Kingdom, France and Italy, indices 
of prices of industrial goods were available and were used. For the other countries, the sub-groups of the 
wholesale-price index relating to commodities other than food were combined, without weighting, into a 
general index. The indices thus arrived at were divided into the indices of food prices, both being based 
on 1929 = 100. For Italy, the food and non-food indices refer to primary products. 

b For the United Kingdom, 1930 = 100. 

On account of differences in the methods by which the various 
national indices are constructed, no attention should be paid to 
small differences in the figures in the above table. But the large differ- 
ences between the "real cost" of food in the exporting countries and 
in those importing countries which have sharply restricted imports 
can undoubtedly be taken as reflecting the fact that, in the latter, 



1 See footnote " to the table. 



— 2l6 — 

food prices to the consumer have been kept at relatively high levels 
as a result of the protection afforded domestic producers. 

21. In order to illustrate in greater detail the effect of trade 
restrictions on food prices, it will be sufficient to take three examples 
of somewhat different types of food : wheat (a food of high energy 
value), maize (important as fodder crop as well as human food) 
and butter (a food of high protective value). 

22. Of all the foods entering international trade, wheat has 
been the most subject to Governmental interference and control 
in recent years. Tariffs have been raised, import quotas and 
licensing systems imposed and domestic production directly sub- 
sidised in most European States. Thus, in France, the duty on 
wheat was raised from 35 to 83.20 francs per 100 kg. between the 
beginning of 1929 and the beginning of 1936; wheat can only be 
imported under licence, and millers must mix certain proportions 
of domestic with foreign grains. In Italy, the duty on wheat was 
raised from 40 to 75 lire per 100 kg. in the same period; milling 
regulations have been in force since 1931, and wheat can be 
imported only under licence. In Czechoslovakia, import duties 
were raised ; a Grain Monopoly was established with power to license 
imports ; milling regulations were imposed. In 1934 and subsequent 
years, an import duty of 2S. per quarter was imposed on foreign 
imports into the United Kingdom. 

The following table shows the changes which have taken place 
in world trade in wheat and flour in recent years : 



Table V. 

World Trade in Wheat and Flour, in Thousands 
OF Metric Tons. * 

Net exports 



Argentine 

Canada 

Australia 

U.S.A 

European exporters. 

U.S.S.R 

Others 

World total . . 



1926/27- 
930/31 

4.450 

7.990 

2,660 

4,170 

1,150 
890 
400 



1934/35 
4.930 

4.470 
2,910 
b 

1,270 

50 

990 



21,710 14,620 



U.K. and Irish Free 
State 

Italy 

Germany 

France 

Other European 
countries .... 

European total 



Net imports 
1926/27- 
1930/31 



6,260 
2,100 
1,830 
1.275 



1934/35 

5.900 

330 

275 
c 



5,200 3,670 



a From International Institute of Agriculture: " World Agricultural Situation in 1934/35 
b Net import of 180,000 metric tons. 
c Net export of 460,000 metric tons. 



16,670 10,180 
(Rome, 1936). 



— 217 — 

The above table shows that the restriction of imports has been 
particularly severe in Italy, Germany and France. Together, these 
three countries account for about 70 % of the decline in world net 
exports between the two periods shown. 

The effect, indeed the object, of Governmental intervention in 
the wheat trade is to ensure that the domestic producer obtains 
a higher price than that prevailing on world markets. The following 
table shows the recent changes in the price of wheat in four countries 
which normally export wheat and six countries which normally 
import it: 

Table VI. 

Wholesale Price of Wheat in Cents (Gold Parity) 
PER Bushel of 60 Lb. (27.216 Kg.) 

Exporting countries 
J Argentine Canada Hungary United States 

J anuary ^^ America 

1929 115-40 120.37 117-59 120.63 

1930 123.63 129.51 115-49 122.00 

1931 51-99 53-62 66.17 79.25 

1932 43-64 51-26 63.31 57.51 

1933 39-28 38.86 53.10 48.26 

1934 33-03 38-18 27.78 55.67 

1935 33-72 47-37 52.31 63.50 

1936 54.99 50-00 52.47 68.93 

1937 5932 7297 67.45 80.84 

Importing countries 
f United Kingdom Italy France Germany Switzerland a 

J anuary (Manitoba) 

1929 150.57 193-21 164.64 135-55 221.73* 

1930 152.62 194-79 146-05 159.50 221.55* 

1931 75-IO 149-41 184.55 167.48 209.79* 

1932 66.96 150.00 178.51 147.47 201.75 

1933 52.83 155-66 115-85 119-85 194-18 

1934 51-73 123.31 132.71 120.63 189.38 

1935 56.35 130.24 82.87 131.66 177.94 

1936 62.23 145-90 90.17 132.45 178.73 

1937 90.05 104.86 111.04 134.49 125.35 

a Price paid to the producer. 
b Yearly average. 

The effect of high wheat prices in stimulating production in the 
protected markets is referred to below. Their effect on the quan- 
tity of bread consumed is probably not very great, but, on the 
other hand, the impact of high bread prices on general nutritional 



— 2l8 — 

levels must be considerable. The poorer sections of the working 
population of modern industrial communities may spend as much 
as 20 % of their total food expenditure on bread or bread products. 
When the price of bread goes up, or when it is maintained at a 
relatively high level at a period when money incomes are falling, 
more of their income must be spent for this necessity of life and 
less is available for other foods. In these circumstances, their 
purchases of supplementary foods are likely to be restricted. In 
short, the demand for bread is inelastic, and a relative increase in 
its price is equivalent to a reduction in real income. The following 
chapter shows in detail how a reduction in income results in a 
decline in the consumption of the protective foods and deterioration 
of the diet. These effects of high wheat prices on bread-consumers 
must be weighed against their influence on the incomes and 
consumption of wheat-producers. 

23. Since 1933, with the growth and spread of the desire for 
economic self-sufficiency, restrictions have been placed, not only 
on international movements of cereals for human consumption, 
but also on trade in fodder crops. In France, to take but one 
example, imports of maize amounted to 9.6 million quintals in 
1932; a quota of 3.7 million quintals was imposed in 1933, and by 
1935 this had been reduced to 2.1 millions. For oats, the 1935 
quota was 25,000 quintals compared with imports of 1.2 millions 
in 1932; for barley, 195,000 compared with imports of 2.3 million 
quintals in 1932. Some of the principal changes in. the world trade 
in maize are summarised below : 



Table VII. 

World Trade in Maize, in Thousands of Metric Tons. " 

Net imports 
1926-1930 1931-1933 1934 

Producing coun- 
tries 2,800 s.gyo 1,950 

Italy 660 510 160 

France .... 740 980 630 

Czechoslovakia. 300 390 210 

Non-producin g 

countries . . . 5,750 7,150 6,030 

United Kingdom 1,790 2,660 3,120 

Netherlands . . 1,150 1,500 1,000 

Germany . . . 1,080 510 390 

a International Institute of Agriculture, loc. cit. 
b Roumania, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and Hungary. 





Net exports 




1926-1930 1931-1933 1934 


Argentine . . . 


5,870 7,280 5,470 


Danubian coun- 




tries * . . . . 


1,440 1,830 1,360 


United States. . 


520 130 80 


World total . . 


9,010 10,490 8,470 



— 219 — 

Where imports have been restricted, the domestic price has, of 
course, risen above world levels. The nutritional significance of 
artificially high prices for fodder crops lies in the fact that these 
are a raw material of the animal husbandry industry; and when 
fodder prices are raised, this naturally tends to raise the price of 
milk, butter, meat and other valuable human foods. It is perhaps 
worth raising the question whether the protection of domestic 
production of cereals for human consumption could not by some 
means be prevented from increasing the cost of producing foods 
particularly valuable from the standpoint of nutrition. 

24. Since 1930, the trade in butter in most countries has been 
severely curtailed through high import duties and quantitative 
restrictions. The German import duty on butter, which was 
RM 27.50 per 100 kg. before November 1930, was increased by 
stages to RM 75 per 100 kg.; the State exercises a monopoly of 
dairy marketing and there is a monopoly tax almost as high as the 
duty. Import quotas on butter are fixed from month to month. 
In France, the minimum duty on butter in the last quarter of 1936 
was 728 francs per 100 kg. ; quota restrictions have been in force 
since 1931 and there is a licence tax of 200 francs per 100 kg. 
Imports of butter into Belgium have been restricted by quota 
since 1932 (except for the period October 1935-March 1936); the 
duty is 161 francs per 100 kg. and the licence tax 750 francs per 
100 kg. The general duty on imports of butter into Italy is 
500 lire per 100 kg. In Switzerland, there is an import duty of 
20-30 francs per 100 kg. plus a supplementary duty of 100 francs. 
A system of quotas has been in force since 1931 and there is an 
import monopoly. 

Recent changes in the trade in butter are shown below: 

Table VIII. 

World Trade in Butter, in Thousands of Metric Tons. " 

Net exports Net imports 

1926-1930 1934 1926-1930 1934 

Denmark 150 150 United Kingdom . 305 485 

New Zealand ... 75 130 Germany 120 60 

Australia 40 no Switzerland ... 8 0.3 

Netherlands .... 45 35 Europe 439 563 

Sweden 20 25 

World 475 590 

a International Institute of Agriculture, loc. cit. 



— 220 — 

In spite of increased restrictions, the world trade in butter was 
higher in 1934 than in 1926-1930; but this was entirely due to 
greatly increased imports into the United Kingdom, where the 
sharp fall in butter prices led to a striking increase in consumption 
Imports into Germany fell by half, and were also sharply reduced 
in most of the minor importing countries. Many butter-exporting 
States subsidised exports in this period by taxing the domestic 
consumer of butter or liquid milk. In this way, the price to the 
consumer was kept relatively high in certain of the exporting as 
well as in most of the importing States. 

Table IX. 

Retail Price of Butter, October 1936. 
(In Swiss francs per kg.) 

Exporting countries Importing countries 

Estonia 1.89 Czechoslovakia 2.69 

New Zealand 2.30 Belgium 3.05 

Denmark " 2.61 United Kingdom 3.31 

Australia 2.65 France 3.31 

Sweden "■ 2.98 Switzerland 4.76 

Netherlands 3.89 Germany 5.40 

a Salter butter. 

It has been shown earlier, in Part III, Chapter 3 above, that the 
demand for butter is elastic and that consumption has increased 
markedly in countries where the price has been relatively low. The 
new science of nutrition attaches special importance to the con- 
sumption of milk and dairy products, and it is clear that the policy 
of heavy import duties in the importing countries and export boun- 
ties collected by a tax on domestic consumption in the exporting 
countries militates against the desired increase in consumption ; the 
consumer pays at both ends. The question may be raised whether 
the sums spent in subsidising exports from certain countries could 
not, with greater profit — at least from the standpoint of nutrition — 
be spent in subsidising the domestic consumption of liquid milk 
and/or butter. 

25. The effects of agricultural protection on agriculture itself 
are naturally different in the exporting and the importing countries. 
The restriction of the world market tends to depress the price and 
income which the producer in the exporting country obtains for his 



— 221 — 

product, and so to have a deleterious effect on his standard of 
nutrition. The consumer in the exporting country will (if there is 
no Government intervention designed to keep domestic prices above 
world levels) be able to obtain certain foods cheaper than would be 
the case if more of the total production could be sold abroad ; and 
this fact will, other things being equal, tend to increase his con- 
sumption in cases where the demand is elastic. The recent increase 
in the consumption of butter in Denmark may be quoted as an 
example of this type of reaction. As already observed, however, 
certain exporting countries have taxed the domestic butter con- 
sumer in order to subsidise butter exports. The following table ^ 
shows the differences in March 1935 in the wholesale price of butter 
for domestic consumption in certain exporting countries and the 
price at which butter from the same countries was quoted on the 
London Provision Exchange: 

Table X. 

Wholesale Price of Butter in Certain Home Markets and in London, 

March 1935. 

(In Swiss francs per 100 kg.) 

Country of origin 

Argentine 

Australia 

Denmark 

Netherlands 

a April. 

The table makes it clear that the domestic consumer of butter 
in certain exporting countries has to some extent been subsidising 
consumption in the United Kingdom. 

The demand for cereals, on the other hand, appears to be 
inelastic ; and the sharp fall in domestic prices in certain export 
markets which took place in recent years — and which was partly 
cause and partly effect of the trade restrictions — led to no increase 
in the domestic consumption of cereals as a whole, so that there 



Average monthly 
quotation in 
home market 


Average monthly 
quotation of London 
Provision Exchange 
for butter from 

country indicated 


80 « 


107 


160 


105 


74 


146 


298 


112 



1 From C. M. Wright: "Butter as a World Staple" in Index (Stockholm), 
November 1935. 



. — 222 — 

was no direct nutritional gain to set off against the farmer's loss. 
Moreover, the income of the non-farming food-purchasing section 
of the community in countries exporting food is partly dependent 
on the ability to sell industrial goods to the domestic farming 
population ; and the contraction of farm income which results from 
trade restrictions necessarily tends to reduce also the income of 
other sections of the population, and so to affect adversely their 
level of nutrition. 

26. The effects of commercial policy on the quality of the 
nutrition of the protected agricultural population of food-importing 
countries are not easily determined. It has been shown above 
that the effect of trade restrictions is to keep food prices in the 
protected markets at relatively high levels, and it has been argued 
that this tends to limit the purchases of food-purchasers in these 
countries. Conversely, the high domestic prices mean that the 
income of the domestic farmers who sell the protected foods tends 
to be higher than would be the case if more foreign supplies were 
allowed in, and if they continued to produce these same products. 

If, however, protection and high prices lead to so great an increase 
of domestic production that all domestic requirements are covered 
and there is a surplus available for export, the control of the 
domestic price will be endangered. The rapid fall in the price of 
wheat in France when an export surplus was produced in 1933 
provides a good illustration of this danger. It is, of course, clear 
that the high domestic price increases the income of producers in 
the domestic market only in so far as they are producing for sale. 
Where production of the protected crops is on a subsistence basis, 
price is of much less importance, and certain types of agricultural 
protection may even tend to reduce the income of some sections 
of the agricultural commodity. For example, in many European 
States which have imposed severe restrictions on imports of grain 
crops, grain is sold chiefly by the farmers with relatively large 
estates. The small farmer generally produces grain only for his 
own requirements and sells chiefly animal crops. For him, the 
protection of grain crops may mean higher fodder prices — i.e., 
higher raw-material costs. 

It is therefore necessary, in considering the effects of particular 
trade restrictions on agricultural income and prosperity in the 
protected markets, to distinguish sharply between the interests of 



— 223 — 

the various sections of the agricultural population, which may at 
times be quite divergent. Moreover, it is also necessary to take 
into account the effect of these policies on the general level of 
economic prosperity, on which the fortunes of domestic agricultural 
systems are everywhere closely dependent. The maintenance of 
food prices at relatively high levels in industrial countries may have 
an injurious effect on the export trade by keeping labour costs 
high and reducing competitive capacity in international markets. 
Furthermore, the growth of industrial protection in the food- 
exporting States is the inevitable counterpart to the growth of 
agricultural protection in the food-importing States. 

27. Through their influence on relative prices, tariffs and other 
trade restrictions make certain types of agricultural production 
more profitable than others, and producers consequently tend to 
concentrate, so far as natural conditions permit, on the more 
profitable lines. In this way, there is a tendency for unsuitable 
land to be brought under cultivation and for average yields to be 
reduced. An illustration is afforded by the recent history of wheat 
production in Europe. Figures have been quoted in Table VI 
above to show that since 1929 the tariffs imposed on wheat have 
kept its price relatively high in certain European markets. The 
extent to which producers have reacted to this situation is illustrated 
in the following table, showing the changes in the acreage under 
wheat in different parts of the world : 

Table XI. 

Area Harvested to Wheat, in Millions of Hectares. * 



Average 
1926-1930 


1931 


1932 


1933 


1934 


47.8 


46.2 


47-7 


43-2 


38.8 


19.6 


20.3 


20.9 


21.6 


21.6 



Four great exporting countries * 
European importing countries . . . 

a From International Institute of Agriculture: " The World Agricultural Situation in 1934/35 " (Rome, 
1936), page 54. 

b Argentine, Australia, Canada and United States. 

While the great exporting countries, where wheat is produced 
by mechanised low-cost methods, reduced their acreage by 9 million 
hectares, or nearly 20%, between 1926-1930 and 1934, the European 
importing countries increased theirs by 2 million hectares, or 10%. 
The significance of this shift in production from the standpoint 



— 224 — 

of nutrition has already been indicated. The increase in the 
area under wheat in the importing countries of Europe is also 
significant from the point of view of the adjustment of agriculture 
to the trends in consumption outlined in earlier chapters. As 
wheat prices have been kept relatively high, the economic induce- 
ment to go over to other cultures has been lessened, and this despite 
the fact that the trend of wheat consumption is down and the trend 
of consumption of certain other foods upwards. It is, of course, 
impossible to say what the structure of European agricultural 
systems would be if the protection given them were less or of a 
different character. Protection has been given, not only to the 
producers of cereals, but also, for example, to butter and meat 
producers. Domestic production of these latter foods has been stimu- 
lated, though possibly to the detriment of domestic consumption. 

28. What, then, is the role of commercial policy in connection 
with nutrition ? From the preceding analysis, it appears that any 
quota tariff, tax or trade restriction whose effect is to raise the 
price which the consumer must pay for any food (or even non-food) 
is likely to have an adverse effect on his nutritional standards. If 
the price of cereals (or other foods of high energy value) is raised, 
or kept high when incomes are falling, the consumption of cereals 
(or the other foods of high energy value) is not likely to be much 
affected, as the first desire of the consumer is to satisfy his hunger ; 
and, even though bread prices are kept high, bread generally still 
remains the cheapest means of doing this. The consumer does not 
eat less bread, but he pays more for what he eats. This is equiva- 
lent to a reduction in his real income ; and, as he is forced to curtail 
his expenditure on other foods, the consumer will (as is shown in 
detail in the next chapter) restrict his purchases of the higher-priced 
protective foods which are essential for health and efficiency. 

If, on the other hand, commercial policy results in relatively high 
prices of the protective foods, the adverse effect on the amounts 
consumed is even more direct. In the first place, as in the case of 
cereals, the high prices mean a reduction in real income which is 
likely to be followed by a general redistribution of food expenditure 
in a way inimical to sound nutrition. Moreover, the demand for 
many of the protective foods has been shown to be elastic — i.e., to 
change rapidly in proportion to changes in price. A rise in 
their price is likely, therefore, to result in a direct restriction 



— 225 — 

in their consumption and the substitution of cheaper and less 
nutritious foods. It has, for example, frequently been observed 
that, when the price of butter rises relatively to that of margarine, 
the consumption of butter falls and that of margarine increases. 

29. The considerations of the preceding paragraph are confined 
to the influence of trade restrictions on the level of nutrition of the 
food-purchasing public. Important though these considerations 
are, they are not the only ones determining agricultural policy. 
Nor is it urged here that these considerations should necessarily be 
decisive in any concrete case : to give them sole weight would be to 
neglect the interests of food-producers and result in a radical 
transformation in the economic structure of certain States which, 
for social, political and military reasons, could not be undertaken. 
It is essential to balance the interest of the farmer, who is at once 
producer and consumer of foodstuffs, against those of other workers, 
who are consumers only. Moreover, liberty of international 
commercial transactions is' necessarily bound up with the inter- 
national mobility of capital and labour; it would seem clear that 
no considerable increase in the international movement of commodi- 
ties can be expected without a corresponding increase in the 
international movement of the factors which produce them. 

It cannot, however, be too strongly urged that, in framing their 
commercial and general economic policy. Governments should give 
due weight to these considerations of a nutritional order. If they 
have not always done so in the past, this is at least partly due to the 
fact that the importance of adequate nutrition as a factor influencing 
health and efficiency has not been fully realised. With the know- 
ledge which has been gained in recent decades, it is now apparent 
that irreparable harm can be done through faulty diet ; and it is to 
be hoped that this knowledge will influence Governments more 
than hitherto when they are contemplating measures whose effect 
will be to raise food prices to the consumer and so restrict his 
consumption. It is pleasant to be able to record that the know- 
ledge of the importance of adequate nutrition has recently influenced 
the commercial policy of at least one country: in February 1937, 
the Estonian import duties on fruit were very substantially reduced. 
In introducing this measure, the Estonian Minister of Commerce 
explained that its purpose was to increase the consumption of 
fruit and so improve the nutrition of the Estonian people. 

15 



— 226 — 

30. If considerations of nutrition are kept in mind, it may be 
possible to devise means which will assist national agricultural 
systems without exerting an adverse effect on consumption levels. 
The appropriate means will depend upon the circumstances of each 
particular case, and it is not possible to give concrete indications 
here. From the standpoint of nutrition, it would seem that 
measures for the expansion of consumption are preferable to 
measures which restrict imports or production. Through such 
measures (which may, in certain cases, involve subsidies to con- 
sumption collected through the general taxing power of the State) 
it may be found possible to encourage both the production and the 
consumption of protective foods. The structure of national agri- 
cultural systems may, through these means, be encouraged to 
develop along the lines on which consumption should change — with 
benefit both to producers and to consumers. Particular attention 
may be drawn to the possibility of the cheap or free distribution 
of certain foods to certain sections of the community — such, for 
example, as the distribution of milk to school children and expectant 
and nursing mothers. The possibilities with regard to milk are 
particularly important, as this is a food of unique nutritional value 
and one which cannot, in its nature, enter into international trade 
to any great extent. Here the interests of nutrition and national 
agricultural systems clearly coincide, and it would seem that 
greater use might be made of this fact by many countries in framing 
their agricultural policies. What is true of milk holds in only 
slightly less degree of certain other commodities, such as fresh 
fruit and vegetables. The methods of subsidising consumption 
present greater difficulties in these cases, but examples have been 
quoted above to show that, in certain cases, successful techniques 
have been divised. It is obviously impossible to make specific 
recommendations here; it is sufficient to express the opinion that 
the problem of devising methods which will assist domestic agri- 
cultural systems without harming nutritional levels is worthy of 
the most earnest consideration on the part of Governments. 

D. Price and Production Control. 

31. Commercial policy is not the only instrument which has 
been used deliberately to control the supply and prices of foodstuffs. 



— 227 — 

Intervention by the State or by voluntary organisations of pro- 
ducers has been directed in several cases towards a deliberate 
restriction of production with a view to raising prices. In other 
cases, production has been stimulated by subsidies or other means 
in an attempt to increase self-sufficiency in foodstuffs. Finally, 
State intervention in regard to food prices has sometimes been 
undertaken to protect consumers against a rise in prices resulting 
from devaluation, or from scarcity due either to natural or to 
artificial causes. 

32. Measures directed towards raising food prices by restriction 
of production have been undertaken mainly by exporting countries 
which have lost a considerable part of their export markets. Inter- 
vention in such cases is designed to assist the process normally 
brought about, after the lapse of time, by the forces of the market. 
These forces, which tend in other sections of the economy to 
eliminate unprofitable enterprises through the price and profit 
mechanism, are notoriously slow and ineffective in the sphere of 
agriculture. Farmers may continue to produce at a loss for many 
years, and even, in some cases, meet falling prices by an increase 
in output in the attempt to maintain gross receipts. The result is 
a further fall in prices, particularly where the normal outlets are 
artificially cut off by trade restrictions. In such cases. State action 
has been taken to bring about a reduction in output, in the hope 
that prices may be raised once more to remunerative levels. 

An outstanding example of such measures was the agricultural 
adjustment programme introduced in the United States in 1933. 
Benefit payments and compensation were paid to producers who 
undertook to reduce the acreage of wheat and corn planted and the 
production of hogs; in addition, an emergency programme of pur- 
chasing sows and pigs for slaughter removed considerable supplies 
from the market. These measures, aided by a severe drought, led 
to a certain rise in prices. Following the rise in world prices 
and a succession of dry seasons, the measures introduced in 
1936 after the Agricultural Adjustment Act had been decla- 
red unconstitutional laid more emphasis on diversification and 
balancing of production with a view to soil conservation than on 
restriction. 

An extensive programme of production restriction was applied 
also in the Netherlands to meet the difficulties of marketing 



— 228 — 

agricultural commodities at remunerative prices, both abroad and 
in the home market. Thus, the area sown to wheat on any given 
farm was restricted to one-third of its arable land. Potato pro- 
duction was limited by the imposition of a fee of 30 florins per 
hectare for permission to cultivate. Cattle and hog production 
was reduced by the limitation of the number of calves and hogs 
allowed per farm, as well as by the purchasing of inferior cows 
and of hogs for slaughter and distribution to the unemployed. 
The hatching of eggs was allowed only by those with incubation 
permits. Production of vegetables and small fruits was compul- 
sorily reduced by percentages varying from 10 to 75 according to 
the areas cultivated. Cheese production was, moreover, reduced 
by a voluntary agreement. 

In Denmark, also, meat prices were raised by the buying-up and 
slaughtering of surplus cattle, and steps were taken to assist the 
reduction of pig production after the limitation of the British 
market through quotas. 

These examples are sufficient to illustrate the type of State 
intervention which has been applied by exporting countries to the 
problem of agricultural surpluses arising mainly from the loss of 
export markets. 

33. The measures of production control employed to improve 
the situation of farmers in importing countries serve a somewhat 
different purpose. They are generally employed in combination 
with import restrictions for the purpose of creating a relative 
scarcity in the domestic market : the control of prices due to tariff 
or quota regulations may become ineffective if it encourages too 
great a compensatory expansion of domestic production. 

Some measures of output control in the United Kingdom may 
be classed under this head. The marketing scheme designed to 
increase the profitability of potato and hop production are based 
on the limitation of supply: in the case of potatoes, by fines on 
increased acreage and, in the case of hops, by prohibiting any 
increase beyond strict quotas, reinforced by the limitation of 
imports. For wheat, the full assistance secured under the Wheat 
Act (1932) has, up till 1937, been paid only on a limited output 
(27,000,000 cwt.). The milk and hog marketing schemes, on the 
other hand, have led to a considerable increase in production; in 
the case of milk, this has meant mainly an increase of milk sold 



— 229 — 

for manufacturing purposes, assisted by heavy subsidies and volun- 
tary agreements limiting the imports of processed milks. 

The policy in regard to wheat prices in France arose from a situa- 
tion half-way between the two above considered. French wheat 
production normally covered about 75% of domestic requirements. 
A bumper crop in 1932/33 led to a surplus which threatened to 
produce a violent fall in prices. This was not considered as a 
permanent problem requiring acreage reduction, but an emergency 
calling for an immediate control of existing supplies. Two types 
of measures were applied: the purchase of wheat for purposes of 
denaturing ^ and export, and the development of storage facilities 
and a carry-over system, with a guaranteed minimum price. The 
latter method has been maintained as a means of evening out 
undue price fluctuations. 

34. A further type of price control which has been applied for 
the benefit of farmers in some of the wheat-exporting countries 
in Eastern Europe is that of a monopoly organisation employing 
discriminating prices in the home market and for export. Thus, 
the Central Grain Purchasing Bureau in Bulgaria buys and sells 
grain in the domestic market at high fixed prices and exports at 
world parity prices. A similar policy is carried out by the 
Privileged Export Company in Yugoslavia. 

35 . Another measure employed for the benefit of wheat farmers 
in a number of countries is the compulsion of domestic millers to 
employ a given proportion of domestically produced wheat, thus 
increasing its market and normally tending to raise the price of 
bread. 

36. In the later stages of the production of foodstuffs, price- 
raising measures are more frequently the result of voluntary mono- 
polistic organisations of processers or retailers for the purpose of 
fixing minimum prices. The attitude of the State towards such 
policies is generally less sympathetic than in the case of the primary 
producers ; this is partly due to the fact that agricultural production 
is being encouraged in many countries as part of a national policy 
of self-sufficiency or for other social or economic reasons, and partly 



^ I .e., rendering unfit for human consumption. 



— 230 — 

because the conditions of processing and retailing are more mobile 
and susceptible to the working of market forces, and therefore 
require less State assistance, than in the case of primary production. 
In some countries, however, an attempt has been made to improve 
the situation of retailers by a limitation of their number through 
licensing systems. 

'>)']. Finally, mention must be made of intervention applied to 
the price system for the benefit of consumers. Such intervention 
has, on the whole, been less frequent than measures designed to raise 
prices to the producer. Recent examples are, however, afforded 
by the steps taken in certain countries — for example, Belgium, 
Czechoslovakia and France — to prevent currency devaluation from 
resulting in speculation in food and an unwarranted rise in the cost 
of living. 

Germany probably offers at present the most extreme example 
of food-price regulation outside the Soviet system. Prices are there 
fixed both with a view to encouraging production by improving the 
returns to producers and, at the same time, for the purpose of pro- 
tecting consumers from the effects of the relative scarcity resulting 
from increased monetary demand and the drastic exclusion of 
imports. Thus minimum prices are established for the sake of 
producers and maximum prices combined in some cases with 
rationing, both for the benefit of consumers and as a means of 
directing consumers' choices in accordance with the general economic 
programme. The result has been a severe cutting-down of margins 
earned by intermediaries between the primary producer and the 
ultimate consumer. 

38. The above examples serve to indicate the high degree to 
which prices may be affected by State intervention or by mono- 
polistic organisation of the market. It would be out of place to 
enter here into the merits and demerits of such interventions in 
particular cases. It is important, however, to emphasise, from the 
point of view of nutrition policy, that a powerful weapon for the 
influencing of nutrition standards lies at the disposal of Govern- 
ments in the form of price and production control, and that, 
whenever this weapon is called into action for one purpose or 
another, the interests of nutrition should be given particular 
weight. 



— 231 — 

E. Distribution Costs. 

39. The last link in the chain leading from producer to consumer 
is the distribution stage. The costs of distribution are periodically 
—particularly during the depression phase of the business cycle — 
subject to attacks from the side both ot consumers and of pro- 
ducers. The producer calls for a reduction in distributors' margins 
as a means of raising the price obtained for his produce, while the 
consumer hopes thereby to reduce the prices which he has to pay 
at retail. 

40. In recent decades, there has been a notable increase in most 
countries in the proportion of the population engaged in distribu- 
tion. This is no doubt to be explained largely by the extension of 
the services supplied by distribution — more rapid and frequent 
delivery, improved packing, etc. ; it may be due in part, however, 
to the fact that the recent striking rise in productivity per head 
which has characterised most branches of production has not been 
accompanied by a corresponding movement in all branches of 
di.stribution. 

41. Interesting data comparing the changes in efficiency of 

production and distribution in German consumers' co-operative 

societies are given by the Central Union of Consumers' Co-operative 

Societies.! 

Table XII. 

Value of Sales per Person engaged in Distribution 
OR Production. 

Year 

1903 

1904 

1909 

1914 

1925 

1926 

1927 

1928 

1929 

1930 

1931 



Distribution 


Production 


RM. 


RM. 


23.778 


14,121 


22,771 


12,277 


23.761 


16.055 


19.427 


23,027 


19,849 


25,607 


22,660 


28,390 


24.403 


30,987 


25.285 


36,199 


26,812 


37,836 


28,143 


41.340 


28,572 


40,182 



* Year-Book, 1932. 



Farm 

value 

$ 


Retail 

value 


$ 


Margin 

%of 
farm value 


United States 

earnings per hour 

of wage-earners 

(1926 = too) 


134 


252 


118 


88 


44 


272 


514 


242 


89 


102 


170 


374 


204 


120 


91 


195 


415 


220 


113 


102 


88 


270 


182 


207 


81 


150 


345 


195 


130 


91 



— 232 — 

42. The United States Department of Agriculture has recently 
published figures ^ showing the estimated retail value and equivalent 
farm value of quantities of fifty-eight foods purchased annually 
by a typical American working-man's family: 

Table XIII. 

Farm and Retail Value of Typical Food Selection in U.S.A. 



Year 

1913 

1920 

1922 

1929 

1932 

1936 

43. Various enquiries, official and unofficial, have been made 
into the costs of distribution generally with a view to determining 
whether these costs are excessive. 

The National Economic Council in France reported in 1933 on 
the distribution of foodstuffs in the following terms: 

" I . Our internal prices are high : the considerable fall in the costs of production 
during the years 193 1 and 1932 was not followed in every case by a corresponding 
fall in wholesale prices, nor, in particular, in retail prices. 

" 2. For certain commodities, the selUng-price has been burdened by costs 
disproportionate to the value of the product; the excessive number of middlemen 
and distributers reduces the profits for each one, and obliges them to distribute 
their costs over too small a volume of sales. 

" 3. The margin of profit gained by the middlemen varies considerably from 
one product to another. The National Economic Council was unable to find 
reasons to justify these substantial differences in percentages. 

" The National Economic Council was unanimous in recognising the inadequacy 
of the organisation of the distribution of foodstuffs." ^ 

The Linlithgow Committee, which reported in 1923 on the 
marketing of milk, fruit, vegetables, meat, poultry and eggs in 
the United Kingdom, concluded that the cost of distribution of 



1 See U.S. Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Agricultural Economics: 
" Looking Ahead on Agricultural Policy " (Washington, December 1936). 

2 Conseil National Economique : " La Repartition des Denrdes alimentaires " . 
(Paris, 1933) 



— 233 — 

these commodities was too high. " Taken as a whole, distributive 
costs are a far heavier burden than society will permanently consent 
to bear ". The Geddes Committee, which reported in 1925, found 
that margins had been reduced and that the average profits were 
not excessive in the meat trade, though somewhat high in the 
retail baking industry.^ 

44. Both the absolute and relative costs of distribution have 
shown everywhere a marked increase; caution must, however, be 
exercised in drawing conclusions regarding the scope for reducing 
distribution costs from a study of the nominal margins between 
producers' and consumers' prices. In the first place, the increase 
in distribution costs can be explained to a considerable extent by 
the extension of the services expected of and provided by distri- 
buters. Consumers have become more particular; the standards 
of quality and service demanded from distributers have been 
raised. The conditions of production and distribution of foodstuffs 
are expected to reach a higher level of cleanliness, and human 
handling of foods has to be reduced to a minimum; the premises 
where food is retailed to the public have become more hygienic, 
and at the same time more elegant and luxurious. The goods are 
frequently delivered standardised and packed, so that the consumer 
can be sure that he is obtaining food of a uniform quality and 
weight. In the case of many staple foodstuffs — bread, milk, 
meat, etc. — he is no longer content to fetch them from the market 
or retail store, but expects them to be delivered to his door, once 
or even twice a day. All these improved services necessarily 
involve increased costs. 

Although many of these developments have been of undoubted 
benefit to the consumer, there has, at the same time, been an 
unfortunate tendency in some countries for the over-development 
of standardisation and elaborate packing to deprive poorer people 
of access to plain but wholesome products. The demand on the 
part of many consumers for cheaper goods with less distributive 
services has led to the extensive development in some of these 
countries of cash-and-carry food stores. 

45. In a recent study - of the costs of milk distribution in 



^ First Report of the Royal Commission on Food Prices, Vol. I, 1925. 
2 R. B. Forrester : " Milk Price Margins " . Empire Marketing Board, 5 1 . (London, 
1932.) 



— 234 — 

several cities, the author found that the size of the margin was 
clearly related to the quality of the product and the service pro- 
vided. The absolute margins between prices received by producer 
and paid by consumer are shown below: 

Table XIV. 

Milk Margins in Various Cities. 
(In pence per imperial gallon.) 

London ii^/^-ii^j^ 

Glasgow gi/s-io^/s 

Berlin 6V4 

Hamburg 6 

Copenhagen 9-10 

Paris and suburbs 5- 5^/3 

New York 18V2 

Chicago 19 

The high margins in New York and Chicago were found to 
correspond to high-quality hygienic and delivery services, 3.5% 
normal butter-fat content, compulsory pasteurisation and universal 
free delivery in bottle containers. The next group — London, 
Glasgow and Copenhagen — was stated to provide the best standards 
of hygiene and delivery among the European cities represented. 
The low margins in Berlin, Hamburg and Paris were stated to 
correspond to a lower degree of hygienic preparation, lower butter- 
fat content and delivery in bottle containers only on payment of 
an extra charge. The above rough correlation between quality 
and cost is not intended to suggest that economies in the distribu- 
tive processes cannot be achieved; it is merely intended as a 
warning against the use of absolute margins as an index of the 
scope for such economies. 

46. In a study on the distribution of certain fruits in France, 
the author remarks : " The margin which surprises the uninitiated 
causes much less astonishment to anyone who considers the 
numerous processes to which the product is subjected. Economic 
functions are not imposed by the will of men, but by the nature 
of things; and every stage of preparation inevitably involves costs. "^ 



1 Andre Berard : " Du Producteur au Consommateur ". 



— 235 — 

47- Not only are the so-called margins frequently to be regarded 
rather as payments for special services, but, in addition, it must 
be remembered that the size of the margin is necessarily dependent 
on the rate of turnover and the value of the product. Many of 
the costs of distribution are fixed, and, if sales shrink rapidly as 
during a depression, these costs have to be spread over a smaller 
volume of sales, so that the unit burden is necessarily increased. 

48. The following table shows the movements of farm prices 
and margins on retailing, processing, wholesaling and live-stock 
marketing of all meats in the United States in the years 1925, 
1930 and 1934: 

Table XV. 

Values and Margins of All Meats in the United States. " 



Value at retail 

Margin for retailing . 
Value at wholesale . . . 

Margin for wholesaling 
Value at plant 

Margin for processing 
Market value of live-stock 

Margin for Uve-stock marketing 
Farm value of live-stock .... 



b Includes processing tax 1.4 cents = 8'/2% of retail value. 



1925 

Cents 


0/ 

/o 


Cents 


1930 

/o 


1934 
Cents 


/o 


24.6 


100 


23-7 


100 


17.2 


100 


5-2 


22 


5-6 


24 


5-2 


30 


19.4 


78 


18. 1 


76 


12.0 


70 


I.I 


4 


1.0 


4 


1.0 


6 


18.3 


74 


17. 1 


72 


1 1.0 


64 


3-7 


15 


3-7 


15 


3-94 


23 


14.6 


59 


13-4 


57 


71 


41 


i.o 


4 


0.9 


4 


0.9 


5 


13-6 


55 


12.5 


53 


6.2 


36 


jnsumers' 


Meat DoUar ? " 


Chicago, 


1936. 





Even before the rapid fall in the price of live-stock, the farmer 
received only slightl}^ more than half of the consumer's meat dollar. 
During the economic depression, when the farm value of live-stock 
fell violently, the various margins also fell absolutely but very 
much less rapidly, so that their share in the consumer's meat 
dollar was much increased. 

49. The organisation of distribution varies so widely from 
country to country and from industry to industry that it would 
not be possible to make statements or recommendations in regard 
to distribution costs which could lay claim to general validity. 
The number of middlemen required to accomplish the transfer of 
products from the primary producer to the ultimate consumer 



— 236 — 

varies with the size and density of the population, with the nature 
of processing and the retaihng and deHvery services provided, with 
available transport facilities and with other locally differentiated 
factors. Moreover, credit facilities and such systems as that of 
retailing by mail order are developed to very different degrees in 
different countries. For reasons of this kind, it is possible here 
only to indicate in quite general terms the directions along which 
improvements in the organisation of distribution appear to have 
taken place and to be still possible in a number of countries. 

In general, certain stages of distribution appear to offer consider- 
able scope for economies of large scale. The saving on transport 
and handling costs resulting from centralisation of distribution 
over large areas, even if not over whole national markets, can be 
seen in the relative economy and success of co-operative and 
State schemes for the marketing and distribution of agricultural 
products and foodstuffs. Economies have been effected in this 
way also in the holding of stocks at various stages, in the elimina- 
tion of wasteful competitive advertising, in rents for warehouses, 
processing plants and retail premises, and in costs of collection 
and delivery. 

The contribution of producers' and consumers' co-operative 
organisations to nutrition policy through the reduction of marketing 
and distribution costs, and the consequent increase of farmers' 
and consumers' purchasing power, has been described in the report 
on " Workers ' Nutrition and Social Policy " of the International 
Labour Office.^ 

" In one form or another, the object is always to increase the consuming capacity 
of the members. 

" This result is achieved by the co-operative organisations in two different ways: 
they either try to reduce the cost of the economic services they render to a mini- 
mum, or they make the price demanded for these services coincide as closely as 
possible with their actual cost free from all superfluous charges. 

" To reduce the cost of their services, the federal structure of the organisations 
enables them and the small economic units of which they are composed to benefit 
by financial, administrative and technical concentration in the same way as any 
large undertaking. In addition, they can make use of other methods that are 
special to the co-operative movement. 

" The most usual, and in any case the most obvious, means by which the price 
charged for the services rendered is made to coincide with the actual cost is the 



1 Op. cit., Chapter VII, Section 4. 



— 237 — 

retund of ' surpluses ' in whatever form this may take. This method, in effect, 
confers additional purchasing power on the members of the distributive societies. . . 
" The savings effected by the agricultural co-operative societies in their marketing 
activities result in higher prices for the products of the farmers belonging to the 
societies. Thus farmers, who, it should be remembered, are also consumers, find 
their earnings increased and are able to get nearer to the best level of nutrition." 

The co-operative organisations have tended, moreover, to reduce, 
by competition, distribution costs and consumers' prices in other 
sections of the economy. In some countries, they have been 
particularly effective in combating the influence of monopolies 
and cartels on retail prices of important foodstuffs.^ 

In the case of large-scale non-co-operative enterprises, there is a 
danger that the considerable scope for economies of distribution 
may be counterbalanced by monopolistic exploitation. A large- 
scale centralised distributing organisation may be in a position 
both to drive a hard bargain with the primary producer, who is 
forced to get rid of his produce at any price offered, and at the same 
time to charge high prices to the consumers unchecked by the 
undercutting of competitors. In the case of such organised distri- 
bution, control may be necessary to secure that the economies of 
large scale are enjoyed by producers and consumers, and not 
merely used to build up monopoly profits for the distributer. 

The fact that wages and salaries normally constitute the largest 
single element in distribution costs suggests that considerable scope 
for cost reduction may be offered by labour-saving devices such as 
mechanisation, or the elimination of handling processes. Mechani- 
sation normally calls for considerable capital investment which is 
usually worth while only where distribution is organised on a large 
scale. The fact that mechanisation has been applied less in the dis- 
tributive than in the productive sections of the economy may be 
largely due to the persistence of relatively small units in the 
former. 

A reduction of the number of processes, the familiar " elimina- 
tion of middlemen", has been effected in some cases by the estab- 
lishment of large central markets where producer and consumer 
(or retailer) can meet and themselves perform some of the services 
usually supplied by middlemen. In many centres on the Continent, 



^ Cf. H. Stolpe: "Co-operation and Monopolies in Sweden", International 
Labour Review, July 1928. 



— 238 — 

distribution of foodstuffs at retail takes place several times in the 
week in market-halls or open market-places at prices substantially 
lower than those charged in retail shops. This procedure clearly 
eliminates or reduces considerably such costs as rent, transport, 
handling, packing, etc. Other efforts which have been applied in 
the same direction include retailing and delivery by producers, and, 
at the retailing end, non-credit retail stores, which eliminate 
credit costs and bad debts, and where, in some cases, a certain 
amount of self-service in the shop and the transport to his home 
are performed by the purchaser himself. 

A high proportion of the margin of distribution is necessarily 
due to transport costs. These have, in some cases, been improved 
by efficiency of packing and loading, which economises space, and 
also by large-scale organisation, which has eliminated duplication 
and the carrying of goods over unnecessary distances between 
producer and consumer. 

Another important cost element consists of rents. The concentra- 
tion of stocks and the reduction in the number of retail stores 
have, in some countries, contributed to the cutting-down of this 
element. On the other hand, it has sometimes been found desirable 
to increase stocks of commodities of which the supply is irregular, 
in order to stabilise prices both to producers and consumers and 
thereby to reduce the cost of the risk factor. 

Finally, particular attention is being paid to the problem of 
waste; attempts are made to reduce waste through the immediate 
elimination of spoilt goods, through increased use of refrigeration 
and cooling during storage, transport and retailing, and through 
better distribution of shipments as to both time and place. 

In the United States and in some other countries, methods of 
intensive market research have been developed with a view to 
forecasting local demand, so as to avoid the shipment of goods 
to a market where remunerative sales cannot be assured. 

50. It has been possible here to mention only a few of the points 
at which efforts for reducing distribution costs are being applied. 
The problem calls for detailed investigation in particular countries 
and industries. One of the essential conditions for such investigations 
is clearly the development of more exact cost-accounting by those 
engaged in distribution. In this connection, the promotion of the 
collection of distribution-cost statistics by the Economic Institute 



— 239 — 

for Small Traders in the Netherlands may be mentioned as a success- 
ful attempt to deal with this problem.^ 

51. A particularly important field calling for improved methods 
of distribution is offered by the milk trade. A plentiful, regular, 
cheap and hygienic milk supply is one of the main essentials of 
satisfactory nutrition. A special problem arises from the fact that 
production is subject to greater seasonal fluctuations than consump- 
tion, yielding a summer " surplus " of milk which has to be disposed 
of outside the liquid market, and consequently at lower prices; 
organisation of the liquid-milk market is therefore bound up with 
that of various milk products. The complex problem of milk 
distribution seems to call for regional or national organisation. 

52. It is clear that an improvement in the efficiency of the 
distribution of foodstuffs must be a primary element in nutrition 
policy. Certain steps have already been taken in the establishment 
of consumers' committees and the periodic setting-up of Govern- 
ment commissions of enquiry to give special consideration to 
consumers' interests in connection with distribution. Too often, 
unfortunately, action has stopped short at this point. Anomalies 
have been pointed out, excessive margins discovered, and sugges- 
tions made for improved organisation; it is essential that these 
preliminary analyses of the defects of the existing system should 
be followed by an active policy of reform and reorganisation. 



1 Cf. F. L. Van Muiswinkel: " Distribution Cost Statistics for the Retailer ". 
International Congress for Scientific Management, London, 1935. 



240 — 



Chapter 5. 



THE RELATION OF INCOME TO NUTRITION. 



1. In the two preceding chapters, an attempt was made to 
indicate the relationship between prices and consumption and to 
analyse the factors determining the price of food to the consumer. 
The quality of nutrition, however, depends upon the amount of 
money available for food in relation to food prices, and the wisdom 
and intelligence with which it is spent. The present chapter and that 
which follows will accordingly be devoted to an analysis of the roles 
of income and education in determining nutritional levels. 

2. The data on which the following analysis is based refer 
almost exclusively to urban populations. This is due not to an 
under-estimation of the importance of the problem of the nutrition 
of agriculturists, but to the less dominant role played by money 
income in determining farmers' consumption, owing to the pro- 
duction of food for family consumption on the farm. The follow- 
ing figures relating to three Canadian provinces illustrate the 
importance of this factor even in a country where farming is 
conducted largely on a market and not a subsistence basis : 

Table I. 

Percentage Values of Leading Food Groups produced on the Farm 



AND PURCHASED, I934. 



Alberta 
(523 households) 
Produced 



Meats 

Butter and cheese 

Flour 

Canned goods . . 



on farm 

87 
89 

43 

ID 



Purchased 

13 
II 

57 
90 



Ontario 
(512 households) 
Produced 



on farm 
72 
64 
21 
21 



Purchased 

28 
36 
79 
79 



Saskatchewan 
(639 households) 
Produced 



on farm 

91 

90 

27 

6 



Purchased 

9 
10 

73 
94 



a British Commonwealth Scientific Conference, Canadian Preparatory Committee: Report of the Sub- 
Committee on Nutrition. Ottawa, August 1936. 



An analysis of the problem of the nutrition of farm families is 
confronted by particular difficulties owing to the scarcity of records 



— 241 — 

of the home consumption of foods produced on the farm. At the 
same time, it is along the hnes of such production for family con- 
sumption, and its guidance in accordance with the directives 
furnished by nutritional science, that the most hopeful approach 
to the problem of the nutrition of farm families lies. 

3. To ascertain the role of income in determining nutrition, two 
main types of investigations may be employed. First, by examining 
data on family living classified according to income classes the 
changes in consumption which accompany changes in income may 
be ascertained and the nutritional implications of those changes 
examined. Secondly, the cost of minimum adequate diets which 
have been laid down by nutrition authorities may be compared 
with the sums available for expenditure on food in various classes 
of the community and with the allowances available for food by 
those in receipt of relief assistance. 



A. Relation of Income to Food Expenditure. 

4. It is an almost universal rule of experience that, in the family 
of the average worker, the total sum spent on food increases with 
total income. This may be illustrated by the following figures from 
the family expenditure studies in Poland (1928) and in Belgium 
(1928/29). 

Table II. 

Food Expenditure and Total Income. 



Income 



Zloty 

599 and below. 
600-899 . . . . 
900-1,199 . . . 
1,200 and over 



Poland.^ 



Per consumption unit c 



Average 

expenditure 

on food 

Zloty 

345 

452 

465 
712 



Income 

Francs 

Under 200 
200-300 . 
300-400 . 



Belgium. " 



Per quet c 



400 and over. 



Average 
expenditure 
on food 

Francs 

126 
169 
201 
225 



a Statystyka Polski, Tome XL, zeszyt i. Warszawa, 1930. 

b Armand Juli.v: " Resultats principaux d'une enquete sur les budgets d'ouvriers et d'employ^s en 
Belgique (1928/29) ", Dull, de VJnstitut international de Statistique, XXVIII, 1934. 

c The consumption unit is a device for rendering comparable observations from families of different types 
— i.e., different size, age and sex composition. A scale of relative consumption requirements of individuals 
of different ages and sexes is used to convert the data obtained from the original observations relating to 

[Continued on following page. 

16 



— 242 — 

5. Expenditure on food is influenced, not only by the limitations 
of total income, but also by habits, tastes and conventional stand- 
ards of living, which again vary with occupation, degree of urbani- 
sation and family type. In general, wage-earners spend a larger 
proportion of their income on food, and less on " keeping up appear- 
ances", clothes, rent, furniture, etc., than do clerical or professional 
families receiving similar incomes. The influence of the type of 
employment on the proportion of total expenditure devoted to food 
can be seen in Diagram I on page 245, which shows the sums spenton 
food by different general occupational groups having the same 
income per " consumption unit ".^ 

Wage-earners generally pay less rent than clerical and professional 
families with the same income. In a German enquiry (1927/28), it 
was found that wage-earners generally lived in smaller apartments 
than professional families, although the quality, as measured by 
the proportion of rent to floor or air space, was about the same in 
different occupational groups with the same incomes. The import- 
ance of rents in determining the amount of income available for 
food has frequently been emphasised. In Stockton-on-Tees, 
England, it was found that workers' families which were transferred 
from slum dwellings to a modern housing estate suffered seriously 
in health as compared with those who remained in the slums, owing 
to the necessity for paying a larger proportion of their incomes for 

rContinuation of footnote from preceding page. 

different families into comparable units. For example, in scale (a) below, the consumption requirements 
of a child aged 5 are taken as equal to half the requirements of a grown man. 

In practice, a number of different scales of requirements have been used, but most of them have been 
based on calorie requirements only. In fact, however, the relative requirements of the various nutrients 
do not bear a fixed proportion to the requirements of calories throughout all ages or for both sexes. The 
application of a calorie requirement scale to the intake of proteins, minerals and vitamins and of specific 
foodstuffs, or for the purpose of classification into income groups, has therefore a distorting effect on the 
results. Exact scales of requirements for various nutrients have not yet been internationally agreed upon ; 
the degree of distortion can, however, be gauged to some extent from the table given in footnote a on page 253 
which indicates the differences between the relative requirement scales used by the U.S. Bureau of Home, 
Economics, for calories, for various minerals and vitamins and for the cost of adequate diets generally. 
Unfortunately, most studies on family living from which the illustrative matter of this chapter is drawn suffer 
from the distorting effects of applying calorie requirement scales only; it has been necessary to make use of 
this material in default of better. The question of establishing scales of relative requirements for various 
nutrients is at present being studied by the Technical Commission on Nutrition of the Health Organisation 
of the League of Nations, and it is to be hoped that future family living studies will be able to take advantage 
of the work of that Commission. 

In the material quoted in this chapter, a number of different scales of relative calorie requirements have 
been used. A reference table of these different scales is given below; in subsequent examples, the particular 
scale used is always indicated. In Table II above, the scale used for the Polish data is (a), and that of the 
Belgian data (b). In the latter, a " quet " represents the requirements of a child under i year. 

[Continued on following page. 



^ The scales c and d respectively are employed for conversion into consumption 
units in the data for Czechoslovakia and Sweden. For the German data, scale / 
is used for food consumption, and an average of / and g (non-food requirements) 
for income. 



— 243 — 

rent, and in consequence not having enough available for an 
adequate diet.^ 

The effects of rent restriction (Mieterschutz) on total food 
expenditure can be seen from the table on the next page, taken 
from a Czechoslovak enquiry into family living (1929/30). ^ 

[Continuation of footnote from preceding page. 

On the question of the degree of difference involved in the use of different calorie scales, see International 
Labour Office: " Workers' Nutrition and Social Policy ", page 41. 

Various Scales used for Consumption Units. 



Age 


Male Female 


M 


F 




M 




F 


M 


F 


M 


F 




M F 


Year" ' 


, 




, 


^ 




, 






, 










. 


0.25 




1.0 






0.1 






0.15 




0-43 






0.50 


I . 


0.25 




I.I 






0.1 






0.15 




0.43 






0.50 


2 . 


0.40 




I. 2-1. 5 






0.1 






0.15 




0.43 






0.50 


3 • 


0.50 




1.2-1.5 






0.1 






0.15 




0.43 






0.50 


4 . 


0.50 




1. 2-1. 5 






0.2 






0.40 




0.43 






0.50 


5 . 


0.50 




I. 2-1. 5 






0.2 






0.40 




0.43 






0.50 


6 . 


0.50 




I. 6-1. 9 






0.2 






0.40 




0.43 






0.50 


7 ■ 


0.50 




I. 6-1. 9 






0-3 






0.75 




0.80 






0.50 


8 . 


0.60 




I. 6-1. 9 






0.3 






0.75 




0.80 






0.50 


9 . 


0.60 




I. 6-1. 9 






0-3 






0.75 




0.80 






0.50 


10 . 


0.60 




2.0-2.3 






0.4 






0.75 




0.80 






0.75 


II . 


0.60 




2.0-2.3 






0.4 






0.90 




0.80 






0.75 


12 . 


0.70 




2.0-2.3 






0.4 






0.90 




0.80 






0.75 


13 • 


0.70 




2.0-2.3 






0.5 
0.5 






0.90 
0.90 




0.80 

0.80 
0.95 






0.75 


14 . 


. 0.85 0.75 
. 0.85 0.75 


2.4-2 
2.4-2 


.6 2.4-2 
.6 2.4-2 


.6 
6 


0.75 


15 • 


0.7 




0.6 


I.O 


0.90 


I 


00 0.90 


16 . 


. 0.85 0.75 


3-5 


2.4-2 


6 


0.7 




0.6 


I.O 


0.90 




0.95 




I 


00 0.90 






adult 






17 . 


. 0.85 0.75 


3-5 


30 




0.9 




0.7 


I.O 


0.90 


1. 00 


90 


I 


00 0.90 


18 . 


. 1. 00 0.85 


3-5 


30 




0.9 




0.7 


I.O 


0.90 


1. 00 


90 


I 


00 0.90 


19 • 


. 1. 00 0-85 


3-5 


3-0 




I.O 




0.8 


I.O 


0.90 


1. 00 


90 


I 


00 0.90 


20 . 


. 1. 00 0.85 


3-5 


3-0 




I.O 




0.8 


I.O 


0.90 


1. 00 


90 


I 


00 0.90 




g 




h 








i 






;■ 








* 


Age 


M F 




M 


F 




M 




F 


M 




F 




M 


F 


Years 
. 


, 






, 




,^ 


















. 


0.20 




0.47 








0.20 






0.15 








0.2 


I . 


0.20 




0.47 








0.25 






0.20 








0.2 


2 . 


0.20 




0.54 








0.30 






0.30 








0.3 


3 • 


0.20 




0.59 








0.35 






0.35 








0.3 


4 • 


0.20 




0.59 








0.45 






0.40 








0.4 


5 . 


0.20 




0.59 








0.50 






0.45 








0.4 


6 . 


0.30 




0.60 








0.53 






0.50 








0.5 


7 . 


0.30 




0.60 








0.57 






0.55 








0.5 


8 . 


0.30 




0.71 








0.60 






0.60 








0.6 


9 ■ 


0.30 




0.71 








0.63 






0.65 








0.6 


10 . 


0.50 




0.80 








0.66 






0.70 








0.7 


II . 


0.50 




0.80 








0.70 






0.75 








0.7 


12 . 


0.50 




0.90 








0.73 






0.80 








0.8 


13 • 


0.50 
0.50 
0.70 




0.90 








0.76 
0.80 






0.85 
0.90 








0.8 


14 . 


1. 00 
1. 00 


"83 

83 


I.O 
I.O 


0.8 


15 ■ 


0.83 





.80 


1. 00 


c 


.90 


0.8 


16 . 


0.70 




1. 00 


83 




0.86 





.80 


1. 00 


c 


.90 




I.O 


0.8 


17 . 


0.70 




1. 00 


83 




0.89 





80 


1. 00 


c 


.90 




1.0 


0.8 


18 . 


0.70 




1. 00 


83 




0.93 





83 


1. 00 





.90 




I.O 


0.8 


19 . 


0.70 




1. 00 
1. 00 


83 
83 




0.96 

1. 00 






.86 
.86 


1. 00 
1. 00 




c 


.90 
.90 




I.O 
I.O 


0.8 


20 . 


1. 00 0.90 
5o 


0.8 


Over ( 




0.8 





























^ McGoNiGLE and Kirby, " Poverty and Public Health " (London, 1936) . 
2 Mitteilungen des Statistischen Staatsamtes der Tschechoslowakischen Republik, 



1934, Nos. 31-34. 



— 244 — 



Table III. 



The Effects of Rent Restriction on Food Expenditure (Czechoslovakia). 

Percentage expenditure on food: 



Incomes 
Kr. 


Workers 


Salaried 


employees 




Officials 


With 

rent 

restriction 


Without 

rent 
restriction 


With 

rent 

restriction 


Without 

rent 
restriction 


With 

rent 

restriction 


Without 

rent 
restriction 


Under 16,000 . 


. 61 


53 


54 


52 


55 




48 


16,001-30,000 . 


• 55 


51 


50 


45 


44 




40 


30,001-60,000 . 


• 50 


50 


57 


41 


38 




36 


Over 60,000 . . 


. 








22 




22 



A somewhat similar investigation relating to German workers in 
the textile, brewing and metal industries was made in 1931.^ This 
investigation showed that the level of consumption of the inhabit- 
ants of new houses was more adversely affected by the depression 
than that of the inhabitants of old houses. Moreover, scarcity 
of old dwellings prevented the return of workers from new to old 
apartments as a result of falhng income. 

The following table relating to these groups of workers in Germany 
shows the movement of the " real income available for consumption" 
{i.e., earnings minus wage tax, insurance premiums and rent) as 
compared with 1913 (= 100) : 



Table IV. 

Income available for Consumption by Inhabitants of Old and New Houses 

(Germany). 



Textile industry (1913 = 100) : 
Skilled workers (male) .... 
Assistants (male) 

Brewing industry (1913/14 = 100) : 

Brewers 

Drivers 

Assistants 

Metal industry (1913/14 = 100): 

Skilled workers 

Semi-skilled workers 

Assistants 



1930 

Old New 
ouses houses 


May 
Old 

houses 


1931 
New 
houses 


(September) 






100 81 


97 


77 


103 84 


93 


74 


(1930) 






lOI 82 


105 


82 


117 95 


120 


95 


116 94 


118 


91 


(October) 






88 71 


85 


68 


91 75 


89 


71 


93 74 


91 


72 



^ By Dr. Franz Furth. See Wirtschaftskurve, Heft III, 193 1. 



245 



Diagram I. 

Amounts spent on Food by Different Occupational 
AND Income Groups. 

A Workers. 

B Officials. 

C Workers and lower officials. 

D Middle-class families. 



DEPENSES D-ALIMENTATION 
PAB UNITE DE 
CONSOMMATION 



EXPENDITURE 
ON FOOD PER 
CONSUMPTION UNIT 



500 
400 
500 
200 

TOO 







■ 












»^^* 


^ 








^^^^ 


■^ 




sf^ 


=i- 




^-^- 

1^^ 


•^ 






































Al 


.EM/ 


\/lKIE 


-*1C 


y»^A 


hA'^' 


) 








AL 


AbNt 











700 900 1100 1300 1500 1700 

000 lOOO 1200 1400 1600 



500 

400 

300 

200 

100 
O 



600 
400 
200 













Sui 


— 

D 




_ 


^ 


r-- 


1 ^^ 


•*• 


















1 1 12 

SUEDE -SWEDEN i 

1 1 I 1 







600 
400 
200 



i I I 



J \ I 



600 1000 1400 1600 2200 J600 

600 1200 1600 2000 2400 



5COO 
4000 
3000 
20OO 
1000 




TCHECOSLOVAQUIE - CZECHOSLOVAKIA 



:3) 



2000 

1000 

O 

3000 5000 7000 9000 1 1000 13000 

400O 6000 6000 iOOOO 12000 

OEVENU PAR UNITE DE CONSOMMATION 

INCOME PER CONSUMPTION UNIT SON 7SiS 



(i) Einzelschriften zur Statisiik des Deutschen Reiches, No. 22. 

(2) Sociala Meddelanden, No. 12, 1934- 

(3) Mitteilungen des Statistischen Staaisamtes der Tschechoslowakischen RepubUk, 193I; Nos. 43-44. 



— 246 — 

It is evident from the examples given in this paragraph 
that a pohcy directed towards improving nutrition standards 
must at the same time take into account other essentials of liveli- 
hood. 

There are in every community certain generally accepted norms 
of consumption in respect of housing, clothing, recreation, etc., 
as well as in respect of food. Although it might be theoretically 
possible to attempt to raise one of these norms at the expense of 
the others, it would be difficult and, in most cases, undesirable to 
do so. Adequate shelter, clothing and recreation are also essential 
for well-being and health. It would therefore appear that the 
more hopeful approach is that of attempting to raise the absolute 
amount of incomes and to secure a more nutritionally desirable 
distribution of food expenditures. 

6. Owing to differences in local prices, taxation levels, etc., the 
sums available for expenditure on food out of identical incomes tend 
to vary as between different localities, and particularly as between 
urban and rural areas. 

7. Apart from these various external influences — of occupation 
and community interests, the level of rents, the size of towns, etc. 
— there is a general tendency governing the relation between 
income and food expenditure: as income rises, the absolute sum 
spent on food increases, but the percentage of income so spent falls. 
Bearing in mind the reservations regarding the external influences 
indicated above, a lower proportionate expenditure on food can 
normally be regarded as a symptom of a higher plane of 
living, both for consumers and, to some extent, for the economy 
as a whole. 

B. Relation of Total Food Expenditure 
TO Nutrition. 

8. The influence of total food expenditure on nutrition is a 
double one: improvements both in the quantity and quality of 
diet generally accompany a higher outlay on food. 

9. The purely quantitative aspect may be seen from the follow- 
ing examples: 



247 



Table V. 

The Relation of Income to Calories, Protein and Fat Consumption. 

Sweden. * 

Workers and lower officials : 

Daily consumption per consumption unit b 
Income per consumption unit Calories Proteins Fats 

Kr. Grammes Grammes 

Below 700 3.120 85 1X2 

700-1,450 3,480 95 134 

1,450 and over .... 3.840 104 152 

Germany. '^ 

Workers : 

Annual income Daily consumption per consumption unit a 
per consumption unit Calories Proteins 

RM Grammes 

Under 800 2,530 69 

800-1,000 2,771 77 

1,000-1,200 2,858 82 

1,200-1,500 2,966 87 

1,500 and over 3.193 95 

United Kingdom. * 

Daily consumption per head of 
Income per head per week Calories Proteins Fats 

Shillings Grammes Grammes 

Up to 10 2,317 63 72 

10-15 2,768 76 99 

15-20 2,962 84 IIO 

20-30 3. 119 89 121 

30-45 3.249 94 131 

Over 45 3,326 98 142 

a Sociala Meddelanden, 1935, No. 3 (6io families). 

b Scale d. 

c Einzelschriften zur Statistik des Deuischen Reiches, No. 22, Teil I, page 95. 

d Scale / for consumption and average of / and g for income. 

e Estimates given in " Food, Health and Income ", by Sir John Boyd Orr, page 34. 

10. The improvement in the quaUty of diet which usually 
accompanies an increase in total food expenditure is to be explained 
by the fact that the more nutritive or protective foods are almost 
always more expensive as sources of energy than foods of less 
nutritive value. The first consideration must necessarily be to 
secure a minimum quotum of calories, at least sufficient to still 
the pangs of hunger. Where income is restricted, this quotum of 
calories will be obtained from the cheapest available sources; and 
this, unfortunately, sometimes precludes the procuring of enough 



— 248 — 

animal proteins, minerals and vitamins, which are chiefly derived 
from the foods which are relatively expensive as sources of calories. 
The following table gives the cost of purchasing 100 calories of 
different foodstuffs in Switzerland (1936), Belgium (1932), Italy 
(1933) and Denmark (1936). 



Table VI. 



Cost of 100 Calories obtained from Various Foods. 



Switzerland (1936)." 



Centimes 

Flour (wheat) 1.04 

Sugar 1.07 

Oatmeal 1.29 

Barley 1.30 

Bread 1.48 

Rice 1.59 

Macaroni 1.68 

Potatoes (by 100 kg.) . . 2.28 

(by 1 kg.) . . . (3.04) 

Lard 2.36 

Prunes (dried) 3.58 

Cocoa 4.09 

Milk 4.37 

Bacon 5.23 

Apples* 6.08 

Butter 6.12 

Beans 7.63 

Cheese 7.83 



Centimes 

Pears '' 8.85 

Carrots * io-39 

Cabbage * 10.90 

Pork II. 41 

Honey ii-75 

Peas 11.96 

Eggs, foreign * 12.06 

Eggs, home produced '' . . (i4-5i) 

Mutton 13-36 

Oranges * 14.92 

Bananas '' 18.56 

Spinach '' 23.21 

Tomatoes, home produced * 23.80 

Tomatoes, foreign * . . . (26.42) 

Veal 25.00 

Cod 48.57 

Chicken 63.39 



Belgium (1932).' 



Bread . . 
Lard . . 
Potatoes 
Margarine 
Butter . 
Milk . . 



Franc 
0.06 
0.12 
0.13 
0.18 
0.24 
0.28 



Fresh beef . 
Pork cutlets. 
Fruit . . . . 
Vegetables . 
Eggs . . . . 



Franc 

0.77 

0.83 

o.go 

0.95 
1. 00 



a Calculated on the basis of scale of calorie values given in Sherman : " Chemistry of Food and Nutrition " 
(Appendix B), and official retail-price statistics (La Vie Economique) . 
b Prices during the cheapest quarter. 
c E. J. BiowooD and G. Roost: " L'Alimentation rationneUe ". Brussels, 1934, page 229. 



— 249 — 

Table VI (continued). 



Italy (1933) •" 

Beans and other dried veget- 
ables 

Maize flour 

Figs and dried prunes . . 

Rice 

Chestnuts 

Wheat flour 

Potatoes 

Butter 

Sugar 

Milk 

Fresh fruit 

Citrus fruit 

Pork 

Green vegetables 

Cheese 

Beef 

Mutton, goat 

Eggs 

Bananas 

Fresh and frozen fish . . 



Denmark (1936). 



Centesimi 

2.06 
2.74 
3.01 

4-15 
4-31 
4.67 
8.21 
15.00 
15.69 
1586 
20.60 
25.88 
28.41 
30-51 
33-34 
34-59 
39.82 
48.05 
84.16 
87.21 



Bread (rye, black) . 

Sugar (half refined) 

(cut) .■ . . . 

Potatoes 

Vegetable margarine 

Rice 

Oatmeal 

Lard 

Dried peas .... 
Bread (white) . . . 

Butter 

Prunes ...... 

Milk 

Fresh herrings. . . 

Eggs 

Beef (fore-quarter) . 
Veal (fore-quarter) . 
Beef (hind-quarter) 

Cod 

FUet (beef ?) . . . 



0re 

0.8 
i.o 
1.4 
1.4 

1-5 
1.6 
1.8 
2.1 

2.5 

2.8 

30 
3.8 
4.4 
8.8 
8.8 
9-7 
2-3 
2.4 

4-4 
6.7 



3 Annuario St-xtistico Italiano, 1935, page 164. 

b Statistiske Efterretninger, No. 4, February 6th, 1929, page 30; and Annuaire statistique danois, 1936, 
page 95 (publication of the Statistical Department). 

In spite of minor differences, it will be seen that, in most cases, 
the sources of " good protein " and foods rich in mineral and 
vitamin content tend to concentrate at the more expensive end of 
the scale. This applies particularly to fruit, vegetables, meat, 
fish and eggs; while dairy products, also highly "protective", 
occupy an intermediate position. 

It should not be thought, however, because the protective foods 
tend to be expensive as sources of calories, that they are expensive 
foods. On the contrary, Table VII below shows that they are 
relatively cheap as sources of minerals and vitamins — nutrients to 
which the new science of nutrition attaches particular importance. 
The table, which is taken from an American study ^ covering 



1 " Nutritive Value of Diets of Families of Wage-earners and Clerical Workers 
in North Atlantic Cities, 1934/35 " in Monthly Labor Review (Washington, Julv 
1936). 



— 250 — 

employed wage-earners in North Atlantic cities in the winter of 
1934/35, compares the proportion of their total food expenditure 
which these families allotted to seventeen different groups of food, 
and the proportion of their total consumption of calories and various 
nutrients derived from these groups of foods. 



Table VII. 

Average Distribution of Expenditures among, and Percentage of Nutritive 
Values secured from, Specified Groups of Food (United States). 

(Families spending $2.38 to $3.00 weekly per food-cost unit. "*) 



Percentage furnished of: 



Percentage 
of food 



Food group 

Eggs 

Milk, cheese, ice-cream . . . 

Butter, cream 

Other fats 

Meats, poultry, fish .... 

Sugar and sweets 

Bread and other baked goods 
Ready-to-eat cereals .... 
Flour and other cereals . . 
Potatoes, sweet potatoes . . 
Dred legumes, nuts .... 

Tomatoes 

Citrus fruit 

Leafy, green, yellow veget- 
ables 

Other vegetables 

Other fruits 

Miscellaneous items .... 

Total 

a See footnote a, page 253. 
b Less than i/ioo of i %. 



money 
allocated 

4.96 
12.14 

7-57 
2.96 

25.51 

4.21 

13-80 

0.53 
3-28 
1.47 

1. 32 

1.49 
315 

389 
3-43 

3.88 

5-91 



Calo- 
ries 

1.69 

9-79 

932 

7.82 

12.91 

12.37 

19-93 

0.69 

9.63 

5-82 

2.90 

0-34 
1.05 

0.82 
1.04 

2.77 
I. II 



Pro- 
tein 

4.88 

15-96 

0.42 

0.51 

36.17 

0.15 

16.90 

0.74 

9.62 

4-37 

5-26 

0.38 

0.51 

1.42 
1. 00 
0.69 
1.02 



Cal- Phos- 
cium phorus 



2.73 

60.67 

1-44 

o.io 

2-73 
2.09 
9-32 
0.44 
2.27 
3-38 
3-41 
0.47 
3.00 

3-38 
2.79 
1.42 

0.35 

TOO 



4.07 

26.40 

0.77 

0.68 

24.58 

0-34 
11.70 

2.43 
7.00 
7.80 
6.75 
0.61 
0.88 

2.26 

1-73 
1-54 
0.46 



Iron 

6-33 
6.06 

0.52 

0.73 

31-83 
2-59 

11.28 

1-53 
6.31 
II. 41 
8.70 
0.64 
1.84 

3-72 

2.08 

4-14 
0.29 



Vita- Vita- 
min A min B 



6.04 
13.90 
16.00 
0.84 
7.14 
o 

2.83 
0.02 
0.64 
2.60 
0.22 
9-52 
0.56 

33-70 
1.28 
4-63 
0.07 



2.83 

12.42 

0.16 

O.OI 

37-42 

O 

4.67 

1.04 
2.40 

13-41 
8.67 

1-99 

5-27 

4.16 
1-57 
3-75 
0.23 



Vita- 
min C 

o 

5-28 

o 

o 

0.67 

o 

0.52 

o 

O.II 

22.83 
o 

7.82 
29-56 

12.76 

8.12 

12.33 

(b) 



Vita- 
min G 
(Ba) 

5-33 
34-23 

0.43 

1.06 
32.22 

o 

5-II 
0.46 
0.12 
7.18 
0.80 
0.60 
3-30 

3-69 
1.23 
3-86 
0.38 



II. The improvement in diet which accompanies rising income 
is, then, chiefly due to the fact that calories are purchased from 
more varied and expensive sources which are usually, although not 
always, more nutritive. The price paid per 10,000 calories in 
Sweden by families with different incomes per head is shown in the 
following figures : 



— 251 — 



Table VIII. 



Relation of Income to Price of Calories. 



Sweden (1933)." 
Income per consumption unit b 
Kr. 

Workers : 

Below 700 

700-1,450 

1,450 and over 

Middle-class families : 

1,005-1,530 

1.530-2,585 

2,585 and over 

a Sociala Meddelanden, 1935, No. 3, page 188. 
b Scale d. 



Cost of 

10,000 calories 

0re 



250 
310 
369 



295 
373 
442 



12. A very rough measure of the nutritive quahty of a diet is 
given by the proportion of calories and proteins derived from animal 
and vegetable sources. In the following examples (Table IX), 
taken from the German and Polish family budget enquiries, a 
steady increase in the percentage both of proteins and calories 
derived from animal sources will be seen to accompany a rising 
income per consumption unit. 



Table IX. 

Nutritional Analysis of Diets of German and Polish Workers. 



Polish Workers (1927). ** 



Protein 



Total expenditure 

per consumption unit b 

Zloty 

Below 600 

600-899 

900-1,199 

1,200 and over .... 

a " Budget des families ouvrieres, 1927 "• Statystyka Polski, Tome XL, zeszyt i. 
b Scale a. 



Animal 
Grammes % 


Vegetable 
Grammes % 


12.9 25.65 


37-4 74-35 


24.0 37.21 


40.5 62.79 


32.1 42.97 


42.6 57.03 


44.6 52.97 


39.6 47.03 



— 252 — 



Below 600. . . 
600-809 . . . . 
900-1,199 . . . 
1,200 and over 



Table IX (continued). 



Calories 



Anima 

326.8 

575-7 
756.1 

987.8 


1 
% 
13.68 

20.28 

23-95 
29.84 


Vegetable 

% 

2.061.4 86.32 

2,263.0 79.72 
2,400.3 76.05 

2.322.5 70.16 



German Workers (1927/28). 



Protein 



Annual income 

per consuraptlon unit 6 

RM. 

Under 800 . . 

800-1,000 . . . 

1,000-1,200 . . 

1,200-1,500 . . 

1,500 and over 



Animal 

% 

Under 800 895 35.38 1,635 

800-1,000 1,036 37.39 1,735 

1,000-1,200 1,104 38.63 1,754 

1,200-1,500 1,219 41.10 1,747 

1,500 and over 1,313 41.12 1,880 

a Einzelschriften zur Statistik des Deutschen Retches, No. 22. 

b Scale / for protein and calorie intake; average of scales / and g for incomes. 



Animal 
Grammes % 


Vegetable 
Grammes % 


30.7 


44.62 


38.1 55.38 


38.2 


49.42 


39.1 50.58 


42.7 


52.01 


39-4 47-99 


48.5 


56.07 


38.0 43.93 


55-5 


58.30 
( 


39-7 41-70 
Calories 



Vegetable 

% 
64.62 
62.61 
61.37 
58.90 
58.88 



13. A more exact analysis of the nutritive value of diets pur- 
chased at different food expense levels has been made for certain 
employed wage-earners and low-salaried clerical workers in the 
United States in 1934-1936 by the Bureau of Home Economics, 
Department of Agriculture.^ The following table shows per 
" nutrition unit " ^ the average annual energy value and content 
of various nutritive elements consumed by families with different 
food expense levels in the North Atlantic region, December 1934- 
February 1936. 



^ " Diets of Families of Wage-earners and Low-salaried Clerical Workers living 
in Industrial Communities in Three Regions of the United States, 1934-1936." 
Bureau of Home Economics, February 1937. (Mimeographed.) 

2 Bureau of Home Economics scales. See footnote, page 253. 



253 — ■ 



Table X. 



Relation of Income to Intake of Calories and Various Nutrients 

(United States). 

(Value per nutrition unit.) * 



Weekly food 
expenditure 

per food 
cost unit b 



1-33-1 -99 

2.00-2.66 

2.67-3.32 

3-33-3-99 
4.00-4.66 



E^^gy Protein Calcium ^^"V. 
value pnorus 

Calories Grammes Gramme Grammes Gramme 



Iron 



2,540 
2,960 

3,370 



64 
74 



0.440 
0.546 
0.663 



1.08 0.0114 
1.25 0.0133 
1.47 0.0155 



Vita- Vita- Vita- Vita- 
min min min min 
A Bi C G(B2) 
lutemational units c Sherman 
units 

5,740 100 800 470 

7,700 120 1,150 580 

9,380 150 1,400 700 



3,830 98 0.737 162 0.0173 11,760 170 1,750 820 
4,130 116 0.841 1.87 0.0203 15,820 200 1,950 950 



a A " nutrition unit " is taken by the Bureau of Home Economics to represent 3,000 calories, 70 grm. 
protein, 68 grm. calcium, 1.32 grm. phosphorus, 0.015 grm. iron, 8,400 International units vitamin A (= about 
6,000 Sherman units), 150 International units vitamin Bx {= about 600 Sherman units), and 600 Sherman 
units vitamin G (B2). The following scales of relative requirements for different ages and sexes have been 
used for comparing the content of calories and various nutrients in the diets. 



Individuals 


Cost 


Energy 


Pro- 


Cal- 


Phos- 


Iron 


Vita- 


Vita- 


Vita- 


Vita- 


by age and sex 


value 


tein 


cium 


phorus 


min 


min 


min 


min 
















A 


Bi 


C 


G(B2) 


Child under 4 years . . 


60 


40 


70 


150 


80 


40 


75 


40 


70 


75 


Boy 4-6; girl 4-7 .. . 


70 


50 


80 


150 


80 


50 


75 


50 


70 


75 


Boy 7-8; girl 8-10 . . 


90 


70 


100 


150 


80 


70 


90 


70 


70 


90 


Boy 9-10; girl ir-13 . 


95 


80 


no 


150 


90 


80 


90 


80 


80 


90 


Boy ri-12; girl 14-19. 


100 


83 


iro 


150 


90 


90 


roo 


83 


90 


100 


Boy i3-r5 years . . . 


iro 


100 


iro 


130 


100 


100 


100 


roo 


roo 


100 


Boy r6-i9 years . . . 


ri2 


120 


no 


130 


100 


100 


TOO 


120 


r20 


100 


Woman 20-74 years . 


95 


(To be 


100 


130 


roo 


100 


100 


roo 


roo 


roo 


Man 20-74 years . . . 


100 


deter- 


100 


100 


100 


100 


roo 


100 


100 


100 


Over 75 years .... 


90 


mined 

daily) 



















6 A " food cost unit " is a consumption unit based on the cost of adequate diets for individuals of different 
ages and sexes as shown in the table in footnote a. 

c The content of these diets in respect of vitamins A, B and C was expressed, in the original document 
from which this table is taken, in terms of Sherman units, as follows: 

Weekly food expenditure 
per food cost unit 



1. 33-1.99 
2.00-2.66 



2-67-3-32 
3-33-3-99 
4.00-4.60 



^tamin 


Vitamin 


Vitamin 


A 


B(Bi) 


C 


4,roo 


400 


80 


5,500 


490 


115 


6,700 


580 


140 


8,400 


680 


175 


11,300 


790 


195 



Owing to the fact that Sherman units and International units are computed according to quite different 
principles, no exact conversion is possible. The Sherman units for vitamins A, Bj, C and G (B2) are biological 
units, based on the biological response of animals — a response subject to great variation under apparently 
similar conditions of experiment. The International units for Vitamins A, Bj, C and D, on the other hand, 
are based upon the vitamin activity of standard, stable materials, appropriately chosen for vitamins A, Bx, 
C and D respectively, these standard materials in suitable dosage being simultaneously included in every 
test as standards of comparison. The expression of the quantities of vitamins A, Bx and C in terms of Inter- 
national units in the above table are based on the following approximate conversion coefficients computed 
by Dr. Harriette Chick, of the Lister Institute: 

Vitamin A: i Sherman unit equivalent to 1.4 International units 
Vitamin Bx: „ ,, „ „ „ 0.25 „ „ 

Vitamin C: „ „ „ „ ,, 10 



No international standard or unit at present exists for vitamin G (B2). 



— 254 — 

Both quantitatively and qualitatively, an improvement takes 
place as the total food expenditure per food-cost-unit increases. 

Similar data relating to European urban families in South 
Africa ^ are given below in Table XI. 

Table XI. 

Constituents of Food consumed per Man-unit * per Day 
(Union of South Africa). 

Proteins (grammes) 
Annual family , ' v 

i°'=°°i'= „.„ <^.^^e^ Vegetable ^ , , Fats ,^f^°- 

Milk ammal °j . Total , __ > hydrates 

products P^°'^"'=t^ (grammes) (g,^;,^^,,) 

Up to £125 6 30 65-67 101-103 60-68 626-633 

;^I25-;^I50 6 32 60-61 98-99 59-66 561-569 

£150-1^75 7 31-32 58 96-97 63-72 551-557 

;^I75-;^200 8 36-37 61-62 105-107 70-78 581-594 

;^200-/225 II 35-36 53-55 99-102 74-82 531-542 

£i-z^-£z^o 14 41-42 57-59 112-115 93-105 585-600 

£2SO-£2j5 12 39-40 55-56 106-108 85-97 529-544 

;^275-/300 15 39-41 56-57 110-113 91-102 543-560 

;^30o-/325 15 41-43 56-58 112-116 95-108 550-569 

;^325-/35o 17 44-46 57-60 I 18-123 106-121 569-592 

/350-£375 17 45-47 57-59 119-123 108-121 566-588 

i;375-;^400 16 42-45 55-57 X13-118 102-115 539-562 

;^40o-;^425 17 45-47 56-58 1 18-122 107-122 555-577 

;^425-;£450 17 43-46 56-58 116-121 108-122 556-581 

A50-;^475 ...... 17 47-50 56-58 120-125 109-124 553-580 

i;475-;^5oo 16 51-54 56-58 123-128 1 10-125 561-588 

;^5oo-;£525 17 49-51 52-55 118-123 III-X25 530-557 

;^525-;^550 18 50-54 55-58 123-130 114-129 543-573 

£55°-£575 17 49-51 52-55 118-123 1 12-127 544-571 

;^575-;^6oo 18 50-54 58-60 126-132 117-131 558-587 

Average all groups . 15 43-45 56-58 114-118 98-110 554-574 

a Consumption-unit scale k; cf. page 243. 

. , t :i.. Calcium Phosphorus Iron 

Annual family ^^^_ ^^^ ^^^^^.^^ 

income x \ \ 

grammes) grammes) grammes) 

Up to ;^I25 494-507 1,643-1,685 22-23 3.576-3.683 

;^I25-;^I50 481-494 1,560-1,603 21-22 3.301-3.395 

;^i50-;^i75 494-503 1,529-1,560 20-21 3,282-3,396 

;^I75-;£200 592-612 1,672-1,740 22-23 3.502-3,647 

;^2oo-/225 673-688 1,641-1,696 21-22 3.323-3.453 

;^225-r250 851-872 1.857-1,933 23-24 3.791-3.975 

;^250-;^275 758-776 I.731-I.795 22-23 3.453-3.634 



^ Union of South Africa, Office of Census and Statistics, 1937: " Enquiry into 
the Expenditure of European Families in Certain Urban Areas, 1936 ". 



— 255 — 

Table XI (continued) 

Amiual family ^alcium Phosphorus Iron 

income * ' '*' ^™^^" *™'"'' Calories 

grammes) grammes) grammes) 

£275-£3oo 875-897 1,812-1,893 22-23 3.577-3,759 

;^3oo-/325 895-918 1,896-1,984 24-25 3.655-3.864 

;^325-/35o 998-1,023 1,975-2,073 24-26 3,868-4,113 

i;350-i^375 997-1.022 1,990-2,086 25-26 3,875-4,101 

;^375-/40o 952-977 1,868-1,965 23-25 3,681-3,912 

/40o-;^425 1,012-1,034 1,967-2,058 24-26 3,823-4,056 

;£425-/450 1,037-1,064 1,954-2,059 24-26 3,821-4,066 

;^450-i;475 1,048-1,075 2,013-2,125 25-26 3,837-4,092 

;^475-/50o 987-1,015 2,018-2,134 25-26 3.893-4,156 

;£50o-;^525 1,054-1,082 1,976-2,090 25-26 3,751-4,009 

;^525-;^550 1,081-1,110 2,044-2,175 25-27 3,844-4,116 

;^550-£575 1,013-1,040 1,966-2,079 24-25 3,815-4,074 

£575-£^oo 1,105-1,135 2,088-2,210 26-28 3,956-4,216 

Average all groups . 914-934 1,877-1,970 24-25 3,710-3,913 

14. To illustrate further the point that the inferior composition 
of the diets obtained by the lower-income groups is largely neces- 
sitated by the exigencies of the price system, it may be interesting 
to cite some diets worked out by the Bureau of Home Economics 
in the United States as the best available at different costs. ^ 



Four Diets at 



Table XII. 

Varying Levels of Cost and 
(United States). 



Nutritive Content 



Flour, cereals lb. 

Milk or equivalent quarts 

Potatoes lb. 

Dried beans, peas, nuts .... lb. 

Tomatoes, citrus fruits lb. 

Leafy, green and yellow vegetables lb. 

Dried fruits lb. 

Other vegetables and fruits ... lb. 
Fats (butter, oils, bacon, salt pork) lb. 

Sugars lb. 

Lean meat, poultry, fish .... lb. 
Eggs dozens 



Restricted 
diet for 
emergency 
use 


Adequate 

diet at 

minimum 

cost 


Adequate 

diet at 

moderate 

cost 


Liberal 
diet 


240 


224 


160 


100 


155 


260 


305 


305 


165 


165 


165 


155 


30 


30 


20 


7 


50 


50 


90 


no 


40 


80 


100 


135 


10 


20 


25 


20 


40 


85 


210 


325 


45 


49 


52 


52 


50 


35 


60 


60 


30 


60 


100 


165 


8 


15 


15 


30 



^ Stiebeling and Ward : " Diets at Four Levels of Nutritive Content and Cost ". 
U.S. Department of Agriculture, Circular 296. 



— 256 — 

Optimum diets of the four types described in Table XII were cal- 
culated to cost respectively $6i, $85, I140 and $165 per head per 
year at 1931/32 retail prices. 

The percentage of calories obtained from the various foods are 

as shown in Table XIII. 

Table XIII. 

Percentage of Calories from Various Sources in the 
Four Standard Diets. 

Restricted Adequate Adequate 
diet for diet at diet at Liberal 

emergency minimum moderate diet 

use cost cost 

Bread, flour, cereals .... 43 35 24 15 

Milk 12 18 19 19 

Fruit, vegetables 14 15 18 18 

Fats 17 17 18 18 

Sugars 9 7 9 9 

Lean meat, fish, eggs ... 5 8 12 21 

It can be seen that, in the opinion of the authors of these diets, 
the most intelligent distribution of expenditure requires those with 
very low incomes to rely largely on bread, flour and cereals as 
sources of calories; and that it is only as income available for 
expenditure on food rises that it is considered advisable to draw a 
larger proportion of calories from highly nutritious foods such as 
milk, fruit, vegetables, meat, fish and eggs. 

C. Income Elasticity of Demand for 
Various Foods. 

15. The effects of rising income on the consumption of various 
foodstuffs have been clearly shown in the report on " Workers' 
Nutrition and Social Policy " of the International Labour Ofhce 
(Chapter III, Section 3).^ It is there demonstrated (see Diagram II 
opposite) that the consumption of bread and cereals tends to fall with 
increasing income, and that the consumption of fats (in particular 
margarine) shows the same tendency, though less distinctly, 
whereas the consumption of meat, fish, milk products, fruit and 
vegetables all rise steadily with rising incomes. 



1 " Workers Nutrition and Social Policy ". Studies and Reports, Series B, 
No. 23 (Geneva, 1936). 



Diagram II. '^ 

Quantities of Foods consumed in Different Income Groups. 
(Consumption in the highest income groups in each case = loo.) 

Cereals and bread Meat and fish, etc. 




— Sweden 

- Poland 



Note. — The roman figures indicate income groups. 



g 

Norway 
Czechoslovakia 
U. 3. A. 
Unit. Kingdom 



a From International Labour Office: "Workers' Nutrition and Social Policy". Studies and Reports, 
Series B, No. 23 (Geneva, 1936). 



17 



— 258 — 

i6. Some examples, from the United States, Sweden and the 
Union of South Africa, may serve to illustrate the diversity of 
the reactions to increased income in the case of different food groups. 

Table XIV. 

Relation of Economic Status to Demand for Particular Foods. 

United States of America (1935).* 

Relative per caput consumption by families with annual 
expenditure per consumption unit b of: 

$500 
Under $300 $300-1399 $4oo-$499 and over 



Fruits, fresh, and juices . . 
Fresh (non-leafy) vegetables. 

Leafy vegetables 

Meats, poultry, fish 

Eggs 

Cheese 

Butter and substitutes . . . 
Milk, cream and ice-cream . 

Potatoes 

Bread 



% 


% 


0/ 

/o 


0/ 

/o 


100 


181 


202 


258 


100 


124 


185 


249 


100 


116 


195 


189 


100 


122 


150 


168 


100 


134 


145 


168 


100 


138 


75 


150 


100 


124 


124 


133 


100 


130 


128 


125 


100 


no 


117 


117 


100 


88 


90 


82 



a Faith Williams: " Food Consumption at Different Economic Levels ", Monthly Labqur Review, April 
1936. Based on records of 181 families of wage-earners and lower-salaried clerical workers from represen- 
tative cities in New England, U.S.A., spring 1935. 

b The consumption-unit scale employed is a composite one, based on relative expenditures of persons 
of different ages and sexes on food and clothing, and expenditure per caput on other items. 



Cream 

Fresh vegetables . 

Butter 

Fruit 

Eggs 

Meat and bacon . 

Fish 

Full milk .... 

Cheese 

Bread 

Potatoes .... 
Margarine .... 



Sweden (1933).* 

Relative consumption per 
with income per 

Workers and lower officials 



consumption unit b by families 
consumption unit of: 

Middle-class families 



Below 
700 kr. 

/a 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 



700- 
1,450 kr. 

% 

300 

167 

151 
150 
146 
126 

133 
120 
119 
III 

108 

94 



1,450 kr. 
and over 

% 

405 
233 
205 

195 
171 

163 
152 
132 
129 
126 
no 
82 



1,005- 
1,530 kr. 

% 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 



i>530- 
2,585 kr. 

% 

164 

132 

131 

152 

135 
III 
102 
104 
102 

137 
104 

99 



2,585 kr. 
and over 

% 

181 

204 

171 

194 

163 
130 

128 
106 

"5 

123 

119 

92 



a From Sociala Meddelanden, No. 12, 1934. 
b Scale d. 



259 — 



Table XIV (continued) 
Union of South Africa (1936).* 

Relative consumption per consumption unit b 
by families with incomes of: 



Bacon 

Eggs 

Milk (fresh) 

Cheese 

Fish (fresh) 

Vegetable and fruit (value) 

Butter 

Jam and syrup 

Meat (fresh) 

Potatoes 

Oatmeal, rice, maize meal 

Sugar 

Bread and flour 

Tea and coffee 

Milk, condensed 



to £175 


£325-£40o 

0/ 


£525-£6oo 


100 


1,830 


2,230 


100 


596 


822 


100 


390 


430 


100 


322 


372 


100 


235 


333 


100 


246 


314 


100 


186 


206 


100 


190 


204 


100 


112 


112 


100 


99 


92 


100 


96 


88 


100 


92 


88 


100 


74 


70 


100 


71 


59 


100 


42 


15 



a Union of South Africa, Office of Census and Statistics, 1937 : " Enquiry into the Expenditure of European 
FamiUes in Certain Urban Areas, 1936 ". 
b Scale k. 

In each case, important increases are to be seen in fruit, vege- 
tables, dair}' produce, meat and eggs; all these changes improve 
the quality of the diet. 

17. Changes may also be observed in the composition of the 

separate groups of food in response to rising income. As regards 

the relative consumption of different fats, an improvement in 

nutritional quality is normally found to accompany increased 

expenditure. 

Table XV. 

Relation of Income to Quality of Fat Consumption 
AMONG German Workers" (1927/28). 

(Percentage expenditure on various fats.) 

Annual income per consumption unit b 



Butter ....... 

Crude fat 

Lard and dripping . . 

Margarine 

Oil and vegetable fats. 

a Einzelschriften zur Statistik des Deutschen Retches, No. 22. 

b Average of scales / and g for income; scale / for fat expenditure. 



Under 


RM 800- 


RM 1,000- 


RM 1,200- 


RM 1,500 


RM 800 


1,000 


1,200 


1,500 


and over 


26.6 


37-1 


43-3 


52.4 


62.4 


3-9 


4.1 


3-2 


2.8 


2.4 


16.2 


14.2 


14.0 


10.8 


9.6 


47.1 


38.5 


32.8 


28.3 


193 


6.2 


6.1 


6.7 


5-7 


6.3 



— 26o — 

i8. In the case of bread, the influence of rising income is often 
contrary to the proscriptions of nutritional experts. Thus, in a 
number of countries, consumers with higher food expenditure 
purchase a larger proportion of refined white bread and less of the 
more nutritious wholemeal breads. In the Scandinavian countries, 
however, the contrary tendency is usually to be observed. 

D. Influence of Size and Age of Family. 

19. As most food purchasing is conducted for the family house- 
hold as a whole, not only the family income, but also the number 
of persons and the composition of the family are of importance in 
determining the adequacy of nutrition. 

20. A clear correlation is normally to be found between the size 
of families and both family income and income per consumption 
unit. In general, the larger the family the larger is family income, 
but the smaller is the income per consumption unit. The first 
relation arises from the greater earning possibilities of members 
of the family other than the head, while the second is due to the 
necessity for dividing an income, normally derived at least mainly 
from one source, among an increased number of family members. 
The effect of a larger family in increasing family income is generally 
more marked among workers than among middle-class families, 
where the age at which children begin to earn tends to be higher 
and where their earnings are generally small in relation to those of 
the head of the family. 

21. The influence of an increase in the number of young children 
on consumption per consumption unit is, for the main part, similar 
to that of a decrease in income: both quantity and quality of 
diet tend to fall ^ so long as income is not adjusted to meet the 
increased needs. As in the case of a reduction of income, the 
necessity for supporting a more numerous family on a given income 
generally leads to an increase in the proportion of total expenditure 
devoted to food, but a decrease in the absolute food expenditure 
per consumption unit.^ 



1 Cf. Einzelschriften zur Statistik des Deutschen Reiches, No. 22, page 72. 

2 Mitteilungen des Statistischen Staatsamies der T schechoslowakischen Republik, 
1933. Nos. 199-207. 



— 26l — 

The accompanying table indicates the effect of size of family on 
individual consumption among certain Czechoslovak workers.^ It 
can be seen that, with an increase in the number of children, the 
unit consumption of butter, milk, eggs, cheese, fruit and vegetables 
tends to fall, while that of bread, potatoes and artificial fats show 
the opposite tendency; in short, if income is unchanged, when the 
size of a family increases, diet appears to become more filling but 
less nutritious. 

Table XVI. 

Relation of Family Size to Consumption per Consumption Unit <* 
OF Various Foods among Czechoslovak Workers (Seventy-nine Families). 



Family income: B( 
Number of consumption 

units: 


;low 16,000 Kr. 


16,001-30,000 K 


r. 


30,001-40,000 Kr. 


1.8-2.5 


2.6-3.4 


1.8-2.5 2.6-3.4 3-6-4-3 4-6-4-7 5-9-6.I 4-3-4-4 5-o 5-6-6.2 


Butter . 


. . kg. 


5-63 


3-8i 


7-5 40 


3-9 


1.4 


0.4 5.6 4.8 2.0 


Milk . . 


. Utre 


217 


182 


238 189 


146 


114 


117 179 161 130 


Eggs . . 


number 


224 


134 


237 226 


136 


69 


135 177 160 122 


Cheese . 


crowns 


37 


20 


45 38 


22 


18 


24 30 42 25 


Fruit . . 


crowns 


132 


62 


142 122 


61 


83 


36 152 loi 86 


Vegetables 


crowns 


109 


86 


123 96 


81 


37 


47 71 91 55 


Potatoes 


. . kg. 


126 


86 


89 114 


76 


117 


114 67 136 137 


Bread . . 


• • kg. 


88 


96 


86 120 


117 


171 


116 106 127 133 


Artificial it 


It. . kg. 


2.6 


30 


2.3 3-5 


2-5 


8.6 


5.6 1.4 0.7 6.9 


a Scale c. 

















Similarly, from the German family budget enquiry it appeared 
that families with four children spent per consumption unit 75% 
less on butter, 60% less on eggs, 64% less on fruit, 54% less on 
vegetables, 52% less on meat and meat products and 54% less 
on fish than families with the same income but without children. 
On the other hand, they spent 37 % more on black bread (but 35 % 
less on white bread), 26% more on potatoes and 71% more on 
margarine. 2 

22. Where the income is inadequate and the family large, there 
is thus particular danger of nutritional deficiencies. This is the more 
disturbing in view of the emphasis laid by nutritional experts 



1 Mitteilungen des Statistischen Staatsamtes der Tschechoslowakischen Republik, 
1931, Nos. 225-229, page 1862; see also ibid., 1933, Nos. 199-207, page 1570. 

2 Tyszka : " Ernahrung und Lebenshaltung des Deutschen Volkes " (Berlin, 
1934). page 40- 



— 262 — 

on the particularly ill effects of malnutrition on the young. The 
reassuring doctrine that " with every mouth is born a pair of hands " 
is cold comfort for parents with a large family of small children 
whose mouths require feeding, but whose hands are not yet capable 
of contributing anything towards the process. The danger of 
malnutrition seems particularly serious in such cases. 

23. Perhaps the most significant feature of the deterioration 
of nutrition to be found in large families among the lower-income 
groups is the decline in the consumption of milk. Milk has been 
established by nutrition experts to be not only the most valuable 
element in the diet of children, but also an element for which no 
substitute has been found. A decline in milk consumption by 
young children is therefore practically synonymous with a deterio- 
ration in their nutrition. 

In an enquiry into the milk consumption of 1,000 poor families 
attending infant welfare centres in Durham, England, the average 
weekly quantity of fresh milk purchased per head was found ^ 
to decrease steadily with an increase in the size of the family. 

Table XVII. 

Relation of Family Size to Milk Consumption. 
(Durham, England.) 

Av. fresh milk Av. fresh milk 

Number purchased per head Number purchased per head 

in family per week in family per week 

Litres Litres 

2 0.74 8 0.17 

3 0.40 9 0.17 

4 0.28 10 0.15 

5 0.23 II 0.15 

6 0.23 12 o.ii 

7 0.23 

A similar tendency among workers in Czechoslovakia can be 
seen from Table XVI above, and the same phenomenon was shown 
in an enquiry covering 9,728 families in fifty-nine cities of the 
United States in 1936.^ All the families consisted of two adults 



1 Mrs. C. H. Burns : " Study of Milk Consumption in County Durham ", Journal 
of State Medicine, Vol. XLI, No. 7. 

2 " A Survey of Milk Consumption in Fifty-nine Cities in the United States." 
Consumers' Counsel Division Agricultural Adjustment Administration, Dept. of 
Agriculture, June 1936. 



— 263 



and varying numbers of children; an almost constant decrease in 
per caput milk consumption is seen to accompany an increase in 
the number of children. 

Table XVIII. 

Relation of Family Size to Milk Consumption 
(United States: Fifty-nine Cities). 



Children 
in family 


Weekly consumption 

per head of whole 

milk and whole-milk 

equivalent of 

evaporate milk 

Litres 


Children 
in family 


Weekly consumption 

per head of whole 

milk and whole-milk 

equivalent of 

evaporate milk 

Litres 


. . . . 


.... ^ 


15 
48 

33 

97 


6 . . . . 

7 . . . . 

8 . . . . 


. . . . 1.82 


I . . . . 


. . . . 'K 


. . . . 1.70 
. . . . 1.66 


2 . . . . 


. . . . ^ 


3 • • • • 


2 


9 . . . . 


. . . . 1.68 


4 . . . . 


2 


60 


ID ... . 


. . . . 1.39 


5 . . . . 


.... 2 


19 







The following table shows the per capiit milk consumption in 
families in MinneapoHs, U.S.A., of varying composition. They 
are classed in two different groups according to income per head, 
so that the direct relation of family size to milk consumption (and 
not only the indirect effect exercised through income) may be 



seen. 



Table XIX. 

Relation of Family Size to Milk Consumption 
(Minneapolis, U.S.A.). 

(In litres per head per day) 



Number 
of children 


Per 


caput income below $300 
Number of adults 




Per caput income $300-1599 
Number of adults 




2 


3 


4 5 


I 


2 


3 




4 


5 





0.39 


0.42 


0.36 0.30 


0.62 


0-54 


0.45 




0.41 


0.38 


I 


0.48 


0-43 


0.43 0.38 





0.60 


0.53 




0.51 


— 


2 


0.56 


0.46 


0.43 0.43 





0.59 


0.55 




0.53 


— 


3 • 


0.51 


0-43 


0.39 — 





0.62 


— 




— 


— 


4 • 


0.49 


0.60 








— 


— 




— 


— 


5 • 


0.47 


— 








— 


— 




— 


— 



z\ general tendency can be seen for the consumption of milk per 
head to increase in families containing a larger, and to decrease 



1 Waite and Cox : " Study of the Consumption of Dairy Products in Minneapolis, 
1934." University of Minnesota, Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin 311, 



October 1934. 



— 264 — 

in those containing a smaller, proportion of children to adults. 
The tendency corresponds to the prescriptions of nutrition experts, 
and, like other such prescriptions, is more clearly to be discerned 
in the higher than in the lower income group. 

24. It has been shown above that nutrition in large families 
tends to be inferior to that of smaller families, owing to the reduc- 
tion of income per consumption unit which normally accompanies 
an increase in the size of the family. In a recent enquiry in Sweden, 
it has been suggested that large families tend to enjoy less adequate 
nutrition than small families, for other reasons in addition to the 
reduction of income per head usually involved.^ The following 
table shows the consumption of three family type groups containing 
respectively the following number of consumption units: i.g (fami- 
lies without children), 2.8 (families with two children under 
7 years) and 4.1 (families with two or three children, one or more 
15 years or over). The income per consumption unit varies within 
relatively narrow limits. 

Table XX. 

Relation of Family Type to Consumption of Calories 
AND Various Nutrients (Sweden). 

Consumption units" per family 1.9 2.8 4.1 

Income per family kroner 2,559 3.640 5.750 

Income per consumption unit . . . kronor i,347 1,300 1,401 

Calories 3,732 3,393 3,304 

Calories (animal) 1,711 i,575 1,502 

Proteins grammes 100 97 94 

Animal proteins grammes 62 60 57 

Fat grammes 146 134 130 

Butter-fat grammes 65 62 58 

Carbohydrates grammes 461 420 393 

Calcium grammes 1.27 1.29 1.09 

Phosphorus grammes 1.90 1.89 1.70 

Iron milligrammes 18 17 16 

a, Scale e. 

From this table, it would appear that, even when income per 
consumption unit is similar, an increase in the size of family is 
accompanied by a decreased consumption of practically all nutrients. 



1 Dr. Ernst Abramson: " Preliminary Report on the Composition of Swedish 
Diets." Stockholm, 1937. 



— 265 — 

If the tentative results of the Swedish investigation are confirmed 
by other investigations elsewhere, it will serve to reinforce the 
conclusion already reached that particular attention, through 
family allowances, provision of supplementary food, education and 
other means, must be paid to the question of nutrition of children. 

E. Adequacy of Income for Nutrition. 

25. The preceding sections have been mainly directed towards 
demonstrating the influence of income on actual consumption. An 
alternative approach to the question of the relationship between 
income and nutrition is to compare the minimum cost of adequate 
diets in various countries with the incomes actually available for 
the purchasing of such diets. A study along these lines requires a 
close acquaintance with local conditions, available foodstuffs, 
relative prices, climate, occupations, family composition and earn- 
ings, level of non-food expenditure, etc. Unfortunately, not many 
such studies appear to have been made; an interesting example 
may, however, be cited from Stockton-on-Tees, in the north of 
England.^ 

Family expenditure accounts were collected from 141 employed 
families selected as representative of their class. The irreducible 
expenses on non-food items (rent, fuel and light, insurance, doctor, 
household ustensils and cleaning, clothing, subscriptions, etc.) were 
subtracted from net income (wages minus statutory deductions 
for unemployment and health insurance) in order to calculate the 
weekly sums available per man value for food purchase. The result 
is shown in the following table: 

Table XXI. 

Distribution of Family Income and Food Expenditure per Man Value 

(Stockton-on-Tees, England). 

„ ., . n/ r Sums available for food 

Familv income % oi cases . i ^ 

•^ '"^"'"^ /o " v.00^0 purchase per man value a 





25S.-355. 


33 


4s. 3d. 




35S.-45S. 


28 


4s. 4^. 




45S--55S. 


22 


4s. 11^. 




55S--65S. 


12 


5s. gYzd, 




70s. -80s. 


5 


8s. lYzd. 


a Scale h. 









1 McGoNiGLE and Kirby, op. cit. 



— 266 — 

These figures may be compared with the cost of a specimen diet 
laid down by the British Medical Association as the minimum 
requisite to maintain health and working capacity. Such a diet 
was calculated to cost 7s. per man value, at retail prices ruling at 
Stockton-on-Tees in June 1935. From the above table, therefore, 
it appears that a large proportion of the families included in the 
enquiry had not enough money available for expenditure on food 
to purchase what is considered to be a minimum adequate diet. 
It is impossible to say to what extent this sample is representative 
of the general situation in Great Britain. Sir John Orr (in Chadwick 
Lecture, 1934) estimated the number of those living " near or 
below the threshold of adequate nutrition " as a result of deficiency 
of income as about 10 millions; McGonigle and Kirby ^ even 
regard this as an understatement. 

An indication of the situation in the United States is given by 
Stiebeling and Ward in connection with their calculation of diets 
at various cost levels. The cheapest diet — " restricted diet for 
emergency use " — cost, as 1931/32 retail prices, $61. The diet 
was intended to provide minimum nutritive requirements, allowing 
little safety margin, and not recommended for use over long periods. 
It is stated that this diet had a higher retail value than the food 
which could be purchased out of the relief allowances received by 
the unemployed during 1931-1933. It was further added that, 
" unfortunately, many families find it necessary, even in normal 
times, to live for long periods on supplies of food less plentiful and 
less well balanced than the restricted diet here suggested for emer- 
gency use ". 

The following preliminary results of an enquiry conducted by 
the Bureau of Labour Statistics shows the percentages of representa- 
tive samples of families of employed wage-earners and lower- 
salaried clerical workers which spent sufficient on food to obtain 
the " adequate diet at minimum cost " recommended by the Bureau 
of Home Economics. The prices with which the quantities of the 
adequate diet were weighted were average prices; it is possible that, 
by careful shopping, these foodstuffs could have been obtained at 
less than average prices. 



^ op . cit., page 191. 



267 



Table XXII. 

Percentage of Families with Annual Food Expenditures Large enough 
TO buy the Bureau of Home Economics " Adequate Diet at Minimum Cost ". 



Region, 
citv and State 



North Atlantic: 
Boston, Mass. . 
Buffalo, N.Y. . 
Manchester, N.H. 
New York, N.Y. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Portland, Me. . 
Scranton, Pa. . 

East North Central: 
Cincinnati, O. . 
Cleveland, O. . 
Detroit, Mich. . 
Indianapolis, Ind 
Milwaukee, Wise. 

West North Central 
Denver, Colo. . 
Kansas City, Mo. 
Minneapolis and 
St. Paul, Minn. 
St. Louis, Mo. . 

Pacific : 

San Francisco . 
Seattle, Wash. . 

Southern : 

Baltimore, Md.. 
Birmingham, Ala. 
Houston, Tex. . 
Jacksonville, Fla. 
Memphis, Tenn. 
Mobile, Ala. . . 
New Orleans, La. 
Norfolk- 
Portsmouth, Va. 
Richmond, Va. 

a In most of the cities included in the investigation, some of the data apply to months before and after 
the year indicated in this column, but in all cases, except New York City, more than 50% of the data apply 
to the year given. 

b Bureau of Home Economics adequate diet at minimum cost for a man at moderate work in the year 
to which the greater part of the expenditure figures apply. 

c Number of adult equivalents per family measured in terms of adequate-food-cost units, based on relative 
cost of adequate diet at minimum cost for persons of different age and sex. 



Year 
ending a. 


Cost of 

adequate 

diet b 

$ 


Number of 
families 

White Negro 


Percentage of families spending 

per adult c equivalent: 

Enough for Not enough 

adequate diet b for adequate 

diet b 

White Negro White Negro 


. 28.n.35 


122.25 


516 




73-6 




26.4 




29.11.36 


125-35 


450 




76.9 




23.1 




. 3i-Vni.34 


116.56 


146 




63.0 




370 




• 3I.V.35 


130.30 


897 


100 


87-3 


64.0 


12.7 


36.0 


• 30X1.34 


120.18 


498 


lOI 


75-3 


39.6 


24.7 


60.4 


. 30.XI.34 


116.40 


346 


97 


67.6 


38.1 


32.4 


61.9 


29.11.36 


131-17 


153 




49-7 




50.3 




• 30. XI. 34 


122.26 


231 




72.7 




27-3 




29.11.36 


127-39 


352 


xoo 


81.8 


42.0 


18.2 


58.0 


■ 31V.36 


126.84 


490 




80.0 




20.0 




. 28.n.35 


102.00 


598 




89-5 




10.5 




1. 29.11.36 


120.14 


203 


lOI 


67.0 


29.7 


33-0 


70-3 


. 29.11.36 


120.43 


446 




76-5 




23-5 




. 28.11.35 


1 1 1.04 


295 




83-1 




16.9 




29.11.36 


125.48 


357 


103 


56-9 


37-9 


43-r 


62.1 


29.11.36 


123.92 


504 




67-5 




32-5 




29.11.36 


125.68 


401 


106 


76.8 


46.2 


23.2 


53-8 


31V.35 


127.84 


446 




85-9 




14.1 




. 28.11.35 


115.27 


352 




80.4 




19.6 




29.11.36 


128.65 


419 


107 


68.0 


243 


32.0 


75-7 


L. 30. XI. 34 


118. 01 


202 


lOI 


56.9 


15-8 


43.1 


84.2 


29.11.36 


120.22 


258 




67.4 




32.6 




• 3iVni.35 


127.66 


178 




65-7 




34-3 




. 30.XI.34 


112.53 


194 


94 


62.4 


27.7 


37-6 


72-3 


. 28.n.35 


113.31 


146 


94 


50.7 


12.8 


49.3 


87.2 


• 30.XI.34 


107.03 


318 


83 


67.6 


30.1 


324 


69.9 


1. 29.11.36 


128.02 


162 


109 


63.6 


21. 1 


364 


78.9 


. 30.XI.34 


118.51 


193 


96 


55-4 


20.8 


44.6 


80.0 



— 268 — 

Apart from the possibility of reducing non-food expenditure — 
which, as already indicated, is usually restricted — it can be seen 
that considerable proportions of the employed population, and 
particularly of the negro families, in most of these towns were 
suffering from malnutrition owing to insufficiency of income. Pro- 
bably the proportion whose diets actually were defective was 
considerably greater, since many of the families may have been less 
skilful in apportioning their food expenditure than is assumed by 
the Bureau of Home Economics. 



F. Determinants of Incomes. 

26. The preceding sections of this chapter have shown that 
income exercises a considerable injfluence on nutrition, particularly 
among the lower-income groups, where, even in countries with the 
highest planes of living, it is in some cases so restricted that the 
purchase of an adequate diet becomes an economic impossibility. 

27. Two classes of income influences may be distinguished: 
those affecting the size of the national dividend as a whole, and 
those affecting its distribution among different groups of income- 
receivers. 

28. The factors determining national income may again be 
separated into two distinct classes. In the first place, there are 
the secular, long-term influences — the degree of economic develop- 
ment, the availability of natural resources, accumulation of capital, 
efficiency of labour, etc. The effects of the secular rise in national 
income and in the general plane of living on food-consumption 
habits have been indicated in Chapter I. 

29. The trend of growth in the national income has, unfor- 
tunately, seldom taken the form of a smooth, uninterrupted pro- 
cess. It has been characterised by alternating advances and 
recessions, a wave-like movement which towards the end of the 
nineteenth century had become familiar in all the more developed 
industrial countries as the phenomenon of the " business cycle ". 
The second type of determinant of the total national income, which 
may be characterised as " business-cycle influences ", affects the 
efficiency of the utilisation of available resources— z.e., the degree 



— 269 — 

to which the long-period maximum of the national income is 
approached at any given moment of time. 

30. The effects of the depression on adequacy of nutrition are 
not easy to determine. The violent shrinkage in the total mone- 
tary income in most countries during the recent depression was 
nowhere reflected in a general reduction of consumption corre- 
sponding in degree. One of the characteristic features of the crisis 
was the disproportionate fall in the prices of agricultural products, 
including foodstuffs. Hence the power to purchase food was, in 
most cases, diminished far less than the nominal money income of 
the community. In fact, an examination of the total national 
consumption of various foods during the depression years reveals 
scarcely any evidence of the general impoverishment prevailing. 
The reduction in food prices, combined with the long-term trend 
towards an increased consumption of protective foods, tended to 
counteract and outweigh the effects of reduced money incomes. 
Moreover, the unprecedented extent of public assistance during 
the recent depression modified considerably the effects of unem- 
ployment on national consumption. 

31. The accompanying chart for the United States shows that 
food prices fell by as much as the money earnings of employed 
factory workers between 1928 and 1933 (Diagram XII). This 
situation related, of course, only to workers who were continuously 
employed during this period. 



Diagram III. 

Food Costs and Weekly Earnings of Industrial Workers (1928-1936). 

A Food-cost index (Bureau of Labor Statistics). 

B Weekly earnings index (National Industrial Conference Board). 




— 270 — 

In some other countries — for instance, in Belgium — the fall in 
food prices was even considerably greater than the reduction in 
the earnings of employed workers.^ 

32. For Great Britain, an index of wage-earners' purchasing 
power calculated by Professor Sargant Florence shows an almost 
continuous rise from 1929 to 1935.^ The index ((4) of Table XXIII) 
is composed of the estimated sum of the incomes of employed and 
unemployed workers divided by an index of the cost of living. 
A substitution of the Ministry of Labour food-price index for the 
general cost-of-living index reveals an even greater rise in wage- 
earners' food-purchasing power (5). Moreover, a comparison with 
the movement of the working population (6) disclosed that the 
food-purchasing power per head also showed a steady upward 
movement. 

Table XXIII. 

Indices of Workers' Purchasing Power (Great Britain). 



Year 



1929 
1930 

1931 
1932 

1933 
1934 
1935 



Total 
working- 
class 
money 
income 
(I) 

lOO.O 

97.8 

95-9 
92.7 
94.0 

97-3 
100.6 



Cost of 
living 



(2) 
100. 

96.3 
90.0 

87.8 

85-4 
86.0 

87.2 



Retail 

food 

prices 

(3) 
100. 

94.2 
85.1 
81.8 

77-9 
79.2 
80.8 



General 

purchasing 

power 

(I)-^(2) 
(4) 

100.0 
101.5 
106.6 
105.6 

IIO.O 

113. 1 

II5-4 



Food- 
purchasing 
power 

(i)-f(3) 
(5) 

100 
104 
"3 
"3 
121 
123 
125 



Occupied 
population 
(employed 
and unem- 
ployed) 
(6) 

100. 

102.3 

105.4 
105.6 
106.6 
107.4 
108.4 



33. These figures suggest that the main incidence of the worst 
burden of the depression was on the unemployed, farmers and 
other primary producers. The fact that average national con- 
sumption, or even the average consumption of wage-earners, 
suffered no decline during the recent depression does not imply 



^ Cf. Dupriez: " Salaires, prix et consommation dans la conjoncture ^conomique 
de la Belgique depuis 1920 " : Beitrage zur Konjunkturlehre. Institut fiir Konjunk- 
turforschung, Hamburg, 1936. 

2 " Index of Working-class Purchasing Power ", Journal of Political Economy, 
October 1936. 



— 271 — 

that the depression was without its deleterious effects on the state 
of nutrition. The maintenance of the plane of living of those who 
remained in employment was counterbalanced by the sharp fall 
in the incomes of those who became unemployed; and the fall in 
food prices, which enabled consumers to maintain consumption 
standards in spite of falling money incomes, meant serious 
deprivation for farmers, whose purchasing power was reduced 
and who were compelled to sell a larger proportion of their 
output in order to obtain their necessary fixed money require- 
ments, and could thus retain smaller quantities for their own 
consumption. 

34. The effects of unemployment on nutrition in Austria and 
in Czechoslovakia are indicated by the following tables. The 
considerable fall in butter, fruit and vegetable consumption should 
be particularly noted. 

Table XXIV. 

Annual Consumption per Consumption Unit** of Employed 
AND Unemployed Workers' Families in Vienna (1934).^ 



Food 



Black bread kg. 

Pastry, etc kg. 

Whole milk litre 

Skimmed milk litre 

Cheese kg. 

Butter kg. 

Margarine and vegetable fats . . kg. 

Lard (melted) kg. 

Lard (unmelted) kg. 

Meat other than horsemeat . . . kg. 

Horsemeat kg. 

Fish kg. 

Eggs Number 

Vegetables kg. 

Potatoes kg. 

Fruit kg. 

a Scale i. 

b Wirtschaftsstatistisches Jahrbuch, 1936, page 292. 



Sixty-nine 
families 

(including 
the nineteen 
unemployed 

families) 


Nineteen 

families 

(unemployed) 


Ratio of 

second 

column to 

first 

% 


80.25 


92.41 


+ 15-2 


15-72 


7-37 


— 53-1 


148.17 


94-32 


— 36-3 


8.75 


17.19 


+ 96.5 


3.21 


2.80 


— 12.8 


390 


2.06 


— 47.2 


2.82 


2.24 


— 20.6 


2.27 


4.10 


+ 80.6 


1371 


10.45 


- 23.8 


41.01 


26.16 


— 36.2 


0.68 


1.91 


+ 181.0 


1-59 


0.62 


— 61.0 


189 


116 


— 38-6 


48.57 


4035 


— 16.9 


55-67 


59-35 


+ 6.6 


48.27 


30.69 


— 36-4 



— 272 — 



Table XXV. 



Food Consumption per Consumption Unit'* of Thirteen Czechoslovak 
Families during Periods of Employment and Unemployment.* 



During 

employment, 

February 1931 


During 

unemployment, 

February 1932 


Ratio of 

second column 

to first 


2.32 


2.58 


+ 


II. 2 


0.23 


— 


— 


1 00.0 


0.36 


0.30 


— 


16.6 


0.71 


0.66 


— 


7.0 


0.05 


O.IO 


+ 


1 00.0 


0.43 


0.35 


— • 


18.6 


s 14.28 


13-83 


— 


3-2 


r 12.22 


1503 


+ 


23.0 


509 


4.89 


— 


3-9 


10.32 


9.99 


— 


3-2 


2.25 


2.31 


+ 


2.7 



Food 

Meat kg 

Poultry kg 

Butter kg 

Pork fat kg 

Lard kg 

Artificial fats kg 

Milk litres 

Eggs number 

Flour, etc kg 

Potatoes kg. 

Sugar kg 

a Scale c. ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 

b From Dr. Kollar, Dr. Rezny and Dr. Necasova-Poubova : " Der Einfluss der Krise auf Familien 
beschaftigungsloser Arbeiter in der Tschechoslowakischen Republik", Table 13. Prague, 1933. 

A deterioration in the quality of diets has been seen to accompany 
an increasing period of unemployment. The table given below 
shows the daily consumption per consumption unit ^ of proteins, 
fats and carbohydrates by families of Czechoslovak workers who 
had been unemployed for one to three months, four to twelve 
months, and over a year, respectively, in February 1932.^ 

Table XXVI. 



Effect of Duration of Unemployment to Nutrition 
(Czechoslovakia) . 

Period of unemployment 







1-3 months 


4-12 months 


over I year 


Protein : 










Animal . . 


grammes 


41 


33 


25 


Vegetable . 


grammes 


44 


47 


44 


Total . 


grammes 


85 


80 


70 


Fat 


grammes 


93 


85 


62 


Carbohydrates . 


grammes 


497 


514 


476 



^ Scale c. 

2 From " Der Einfluss der Krise auf Familien beschaftigungsloser Arbeiter in 
der Tschechoslowakischen Republik ", Prague, 1933. 



— 273 — 

Particularly striking is the drastic reduction in fat consumption 
and in the consumption of animal protein; the latter is especially- 
harmful in the case of children. 

35. A study was made by the United States Children's Bureau 
in the autumn of 1934 of the effects of the depression on 259 families 
in five selected cities ^ : 87 % of the families were found to be living 
on reduced incomes (unemployment or wage cuts) : 49% were living 
on half or less than half of previous income; and 73% were living 
on three-quarters or less. 

" Nearly every family that had suffered reduction in income mentioned the 
cutting-down of diets as one of the greatest hardships they had had to endure. The 
quantity and quality of meat had been lessened, eggs had been cut out and 
margarine had been substituted for butter; but the more serious deprivations 
seemed to be in the matter of fruits, vegetables and milk. 

" Enquiry as to the amount and kind of fruits and vegetables used during the 
week prior to the study showed that in 6i% of the families there was a lack of 
sufficient vegetables containing essential diet elements. In 20% of the families, 
the diet was almost totally deficient in respect to green vegetables and fruit, the 
chief articles of diet in these families being bread, beans and potatoes, with 
possibly cabbage once or twice a week, but no other green vegetables and no fruit. 
A still higher percentage of inadequate diets was found among the eighty-nine 
families that were on relief at the time of the study, 79% of this group lacking 
some of the essentials in fruits and vegetables, as compared with 52% of those: 
not on relief. In 26% of the relief families and 17% of the non-relief families, 
the diet was almost entirely lacking in these respects. 

" Fifteen per cent of the families on relief at time of interview and 6% of those 
not on relief bought no milk, fresh or canned, during the previous week: canned 
milk only was used by 25% of the relief families and by 13% of the non-relief 
families."^ 

36. An investigation conducted by the Municipal Bureau of 
Statistics of Amsterdam ^ enables a comparison to be made between 
the diets and living conditions of families of employed and unem- 
ployed workers in Amsterdam during the five months October 1934- 
February 1935. The families concerned were similar as regards 
composition, the occupation of the head of the family and the 
districts, and even streets, in which they lived. While the 



1 H. F. Lenroot: " Children of the Depression ", Social Service Review, June 

1935- 

2 Op. cit., page 226. 

3 Statistische Mededeelingen van het Bureau van Statistik der Gemeente Amsterdam, 
No. 105. Amsterdam, 1937. 

18 



— 274 — 

employed families received an average income of 35.77 florins per 
week, the average incomes of the unemployed amounted to 19.09 
florins, of which 14.03 florins consisted of unemployment assistance. 
Average weekly expenditure of the unemployed families was found 
to be 19.30 florins, implying an average deficit of 0.21 florin per 
week. The proportion of total income spent on food was sur- 
prisingly low — only 41.1%, as compared with 35.7% among the 
employed families. This was due to the relative fixity of non- 
food expenditure, in particular rents, which constituted 30.7% 
of the expenditure of the unemployed, as against only 18.3% for 
the employed. The reduced consumption of some important 
foods is shown in the following table : 

Table XXVII. 

Nutrition of Employed and Unemployed in the Netherlands: 
Expenditure per Consumption Unit " per Week. 



Milk 

Cheese 

Meat 

Fats 

Vegetablfes 

Fruit 

a Scale /. 

The decline in the quality of diet resulting from unemployment 
is, moreover, indicated by the fact that the employed families 
spent, on an average, 1.71 cents per 100 calories, while the unem- 
ployed spent only 1.07 cents. 

37. In addition to the unemployed, the second important group 
whose plane of living in general, and of nutrition in particular, was 
very much lowered during the depression was the farmers. The 
fact that the price of farm products fell much farther and more 
violently than the prices of the commodities which farmers require 
to buy meant a severe curtailment of their purchasing power. On 
the one hand, less money was available for the purchase of such 
food as was not produced on the individual farm, and, on the other 
hand, in areas where farmers consumed largely their own produce. 



Unemployed 
(cents) 


Employed 

(cents) 


24-5 


38.2 


1-9 


7-3 


16.0 


62.3 


32.5 


58.8 


"•5 


21.3 


2.4 


20.7 



— 275 — 

a larger proportion of agricultural output had to be sold on the 
market in order to procure the necessary money for taxes, interest 
payments and other pressing demands, so that less remained for 
home consumption by the farmers and their families. 

38. Besides the size of the national income and its fluctuations 
in the course of the business cycle, an important role in nutrition 
is exercised by the manner in which the national income is distri- 
buted among the population as a whole. A high average income 
and food supply is of little comfort to those below the average 
who are unable to purchase sufficient food to maintain health and 
efficiency. 

39. There is, unfortunately, little information available regard- 
ing the distribution of income in most countries, and nowhere in 
a form which enables the sums spent on each individual to be easily 
calculated. 

Some indication of the situation in the United States in 1929 
(an exceptionally prosperous year) can be gathered from the 
estimates of the distribution of income by families (two or more 
persons) computed by the Brookings Institution. ^ 

Of the 21,674,000 non-farm families in the country, 2,735,000 
(or 12.6%) were estimated to have an income of under $1,000 
per year, and spend on the average only $350 on food; another 
7,197,000 families (or 30%) had an income of $i,ooo-|i,5oo per 
year, of which an average of $490 was devoted to food. Since the 
" adequate diet at minimum cost " of the Bureau of Home Econo- 
mics was computed, at 1929 prices, to cost approximately $500 
per year for an average family, it seems clear that at least 12% 
of all non-farm families, and probably a great many more, had, 
even in 1929, incomes insufficient to procure them an adequate 
diet. 

Of the 5,800,000 farm families, 25% had incomes under $500 
per year, and another 30%, incomes of $500-$!, 000 per year. 
(Farm incomes included allowances, at farm prices, for farm 
products consumed on the farm and for the rental value of farm 
homes.) The first group consumed, on the average, food valued 
at only $250 per year, and the next group food valued, on the 



^ " America's Capacity to consume ", Washington, 1934. 



— 276 — 

average, at $400. The cost of an adequate diet was no doubt less 
for farm families; but 25% of all farm families in the United 
States in 1929 consumed food valued at only $250 per family, and 
it seems unlikely that they could have obtained a physiologically 
satisfactory diet. 

The United States Bureau of Labour Statistics is at present 
engaged on a study of the distribution by income in 1936 of all 
families (including husband and vAie) in certain towns of the 
United States. The Works Progress Administration has prepared 
an estimate of the cost of a maintenance budget for a family of 
four, for which the food costs were based on the Bureau of Home 
Economics adequate diet at minimum cost. The following table 
shows the percentage of white and negro families with incomes too 
low to purchase the Works Progress Administration maintenance 
budget : 

Table XXVIII. 



Town 



Percentage of families (including 

husband and wife) with annual 

incomes in 1935/36 less than required 

to purchase Works Progress 

Administration maintenance budget 

White faraiUes Negro families 



Butte, Mont 35.4 

Chicago, 111 37.0 

Columbia, S.C 28.5 

Columbus, 29.2 

Denver, Colo 41.0 

Mobile, Ala 38.8 

Omaha, Nebr 38.5 

Portland, Ore 39-8 

Providence, R.I 43.2 

Atlanta, Ga 34.4 

a Including sales tax where levied. 



90.7 

78.4 

92.3 



89.6 



Average annual 

cost of maintenance 

budget 

(four persons) 



1,283.69 

1.352.35" 

1,187.70 

1,174.61'* 

1,242.23 

1,125.07 

1.253-97 
1,217.97 
1,242.01 
1,263.68 



It is clear that more than a third of the white families, and 
almost all of the negro families, in most of these towns had incomes 
in 1936 insufficient to secure the Works Progress Administration 
maintenance budget. 

An attempt has been made by Mr. Colin Clark ^ to give a rough 
estimate of the distribution of the incomes available per head of 



1 " National Income and Outlay." London, 1937. 



— 277 — 

the population of the United Kingdom. The following table 
summarises his results: 

Table XXIX. 

Distribution of Population according to Weekly Income per Head 



(United Kingdom). 



Income per head 
per week 



Up to IDS. 
IO5.-155. 
15s. -20s. 
20s. -30s. 
30s. -40s. 
Over 45s 



All persons 

% 

13-7 
16.9 
16.5 

253 

19.4 

8.1 



Children 
under 14 

% 

25-3 
26.7 
20.2 
19.0 
7-3 
1-5 



According to Sir John Orr/ those with an income of under los. 
per week per head spent an average of 4s. per week on food, while 
the next group, with an income of 10S.-15S. per head per week, 
spent on the average 6s. per week on food. There figures may be 
compared with the costs of the British Medical Association standard 
diet, valued at July 1936 prices and adjusted to meet the recom- 
mendations regarding milk of the Technical Commission of the 
Health Committee of the League of Nations : ^ 



Table XXX. 

Cost of Standard Diets for Persons of Different Ages 
(United Kingdom). 

Age Male Female 

Over 70 4s. id. 4s. id. 

14-70 6s. gd. 5s. gd. 

6-14 5s- 5d- 5s- 5d- 

Under 6 3s. lod. 3s. lod. 

It is impossible to make a direct comparison between the figures 
relating to the distribution of the population according to expendi- 
ture per head and those relating to costs of standard diets which 
differentiate according to age and sex. A rough indication of the 
adequacy of funds available for family living, and therefore for 



1 " Food, Health and Income." London, 1936. 

2 R. F. George: "A New Calculation of the Poverty Line", Journal of the 
Royal Statistical Society, 1937, Part I. 



— 278 — 

food expenditure, may be obtained by taking the cost of an ade- 
quate diet for a typical family consisting of a married couple, one 
child aged 6-14 and one child under 6, and comparing it with actual 
incomes and expenditure on food according to the estimates of 
M. Clark. A standard diet for such a family would cost 21s. gd. 
per week; whereas, from Mr. Clark's figures, it appears that families 
of this composition in the lowest income group devote only 16s. per 
week to food, and cannot therefore obtain a diet of the British 
Medical Association standard (adjusted). Families and individuals 
spending at this level are estimated to constitute 13.7% of the 
population of the United Kingdom. 

It may be sufficient to cite these estimates relating to the United 
States and the United Kingdom, where the general level of national 
income is relatively high, to indicate the importance of the distri- 
bution of income for the question of nutrition, and to suggest the 
even greater importance which it may have in relatively poorer 
countries. 

40. A number of different measures has been applied for the 
purpose of raising or supplementing the incomes of those in the 
lower-income groups. 

The various methods of regulating wage incomes — free collective 
bargaining, official recognition of the results of collective bar- 
gaining, their compulsory extension to workers in other spheres, 
the fixing of minimum wage rates for public authorities, for private 
industry and particularly for home work, family allowances, etc. — • 
are discussed at length in several reports of the International Labour 
Office.^ Such measures have undoubtedly contributed towards 
improving the levels of consumption of employed labour; the 
standards of living at which they aim, however, seldom take into 
specific account the essential requirements laid down by nutritional 
experts, and are generally based rather on existing levels of con- 
sumption or wage rates, which may be far from adequate from a 
nutritional point of view. 

In addition to measures designed to raise the incomes of em- 
ployed labour, considerable progress has been achieved in attempting 



1 Cf. International Labour Office: Studies and Reports — " Workers' Nutrition 
and Social Policy", Chapter VI (Series B, No. 23); "Minimum-wage-fixing 
Machinery " (Series D, No. 17); " Family Allowances " (Series D, No. 13). 



— 279 — 

to secure a certain stability of consumption by those who are 
unable to find emplo5nTient, whether for economic or physical 
reasons. Many countries have established schemes of social 
insurance to provide against the worst hardships of unemployment ; 
sickness, invalidity, old age, etc. As in the case of minimum-wage- 
fixing, however, insufficient account seems to be taken in general 
of nutritional requirements in the fixing of benefits to be paid under 
these schemes. " As a rule, social-insurance cash benefits are very 
modest. It could hardly be argued that they were fixed, in any 
countries, by taking genuine account of the costs of a minimum 
standard of living. The amounts of benefits paid in various 
countries represent a compromise between the maximum financial 
obligations it was not desired to exceed and the actual benefits 
it would have been desirable to give. Thus it cannot be main- 
tained, as a general proposition, that the cash benefits payable 
under social-insurance plans provide sufficient and rational nutri- 
tion for insured workers and their families. " ^ 

Other more positive measures for improving incomes of unem- 
ployed workers have been applied through the various methods of 
employment creation introduced in most countries during the 
recent economic depression; public works, employment and other 
forms of subsidies, tax remissions, cheap money policies, etc. In so 
far as such measures have helped to stimulate general economic 
activity, they have not only contributed to raise the incomes of 
those for whom additional employment was provided, but have 
at the same time increased the national income as a whole. 

Finally, the various forms of social provision of essential foods 
to particularly exposed sections of the population may also be 
regarded as measures designed to attack directly the problem of 
low incomes in relation to malnutrition. Where such measures 
are practicable, as in the case of the distribution of milk to pregnant 
and nursing mothers and the provision of milk or meals for school- 
children in schools, they form a particularly effective method of 
coping with the danger of malnutrition. 



1 International Labour Office: " Workers' Nutrition and Social Policy ", page 128 



— 28o — 

Chapter 6. 
THE RELATION OF EDUCATION TO NUTRITION. 



A. Introductory. 

1. In the preceding chapter, it has been sho^vn that income 
plays an important part in determining the nutritional adequacy 
of diets. It is, however, obvious that income is not the only 
influence. The connection between money expenditure and the 
level of nutrition is not a rigid one; there is an infinite number of 
ways of spending a given sum of money on food, and clearly some 
distributions of expenditure will give better results, from a nutri- 
tional standpoint, than others. This means, in short, that through 
publicity and education it is possible to influence habits of food 
consumption and induce consumers to distribute their food expendi- 
ture in a way which will secure for them a diet more adequate 
in essential nutritive properties than that which they now obtain 
with the same money outlay. Indeed, as has been shown in 
Part III, Chapter i, education and propaganda have already 
exercised a profound and beneficial influence on food habits in 
many countries. 

2. Current discussions of nutritional problems frequently tend 
to stress either income or education as the main determinant of 
the state of nutrition, and to minimise the role of the factor which 
is not stressed. These two factors, however, are not alternatives, 
but joint determinants, though it is, of course, obvious that 
income will prove the more important factor to those with most 
restricted means, while education is important for all sections of 
the community. 

B. Scope for influencing Consumption through Education. 

3. To ascertain the general nature of the relation between 
expenditure on food and the quality of the diet purchased, it was 
sufficient to observe the relationship between average food expendi- 
ture in successive income groups and the corresponding average 



— 28l — 

consumption of various foods. In order to determine the scope 
for influences on consumption other than income, the same bud- 
getary material can be used, but, in this case, attention must be 
concentrated, not on the average food consumption of the various 
income groups, but on the differences in the consumption of 
individual families within any given income group. If these 
differences are considerable, then it is obvious that the relationship 
between income and consumption is not rigid and that it is therefore 
possible to exert an effective influence on consumption through 
education or propaganda without touching incomes. If, on the 
other hand, differences in the consumption of individual families 
within an income group are not great, consumption standards 
may be assumed to be directly dependent on expenditure, and the 
possibility of consumption being influenced by purely educational 
means is inconsiderable. 

4. Some interesting studies illuminating the point have been 
made by the Bureau of Home Economics in the United States. 
Actual diets purchased by nearly 900 families living at different 
levels of expenditure on food were classified as A, B or C diets,^ 
and the distribution of A, B and C diets corresponding to these 
different levels were found to be as follows: 

Table I. 

Quality of Diets at Different Levels of Food Expenditure 
IN THE United States. * 

Weekly food expenditure Percentage Percentage of diets classed as: 

per food cost unit b of records , ' > 

ABC 

$i.33-$i.99 37 4 35 61 

$2.67-$3-32 51 35 59 6 

l4.oo-$4.66 12 77 20 3 

a From Hazel Stiebeling: " Diets of Families of Employed Wage-earners and Low-salaried Clerical 
Workers living in Industrial Communities in Three Regions of the United States, 1934-1936 ". Bureau of 
Home Economics, Washington, February 1937. 

b " Food cost units " are based on the relative cost of adequate diets for individuals of different ages and 
sexes. Bureau of Home Economics scale. See footnote, page 253, Part III, Chapter 5. 



^ An A diet is one which meets average minimum requirements with a wide 
margin of safety in all respects; it furnishes, per adult consumption (nutrition) 
unit (see footnote, page 253, Part III, Chapter 5), 68 grammes or more of protein, 
0.68 gramme or more of calcium, 1.32 grammes or more of phosphorus, and 0.015 
gramme or more of iron per day. A B diet is one which meets average minimum 
requirements in all respects with an uncertain margin of safety; it provides, per 

[Continued on following page. 



— 282 — 

It is obvious that, as the level of food expenditure per head 
increases, there is a tendency for the quality of the diets to improve. 
In the lowest expenditure group, as many as 6i% of the diets 
are classed as unsatisfactory; but, since 35% of those spending a 
similar amount on food managed to secure a class B diet, it may 
be concluded that no very exceptional skill or conditions were 
required for obtaining adequate nutrition at that food-expenditure 
level. In other words, if the 61 % in the C class were to learn 
how the 35 % in the B class distributed their food expenditure, 
they could presumably obtain an adequate diet, even without any 
increase in income. The fact that only 4% of diets in the lowest 
income group reached the A standard suggests that rather excep- 
tional housekeeping skill was required; it is probable, however, 
that, if they were once let into the secret, at least some of those 
attaining only B diets might be enabled to reach the A level by 
education in domestic economy and the principles of nutrition. 
In the next two income groups, there seems no reason why all 
could not be instructed sufficiently to enable them to reach the 
A standard; in any case, the fact that 6% and 3% respectively 
are found in the C class in the two upper income groups can 
clearly be accounted for only by ignorance, and not by limitation 
of economic means. 

5. A similar analysis was applied to farm families, 544 records 
extending over the period 1917-1932 being used and adjusted to 
allow for changes in prices.^ Seven income groups were considered; 
in the lowest, the annual per caput money value of food was 
under $32, while in the highest it ranged from $193 to $226. Here, 
none of the lowest group (which comprised only 2 % of all records) 
obtained a grade A diet, and less than 10% obtained grade B, 
which suggests that, at least among this section of the farming 
population, malnutrition could be accounted for almost exclusively 
on economic grounds. The proportion of C diets decreases as 



[Continuation of footnote from preceding page. 

nutrition unit, 45 grammes or more of protein, 0.45 gramme or more of calcium, 
0.88 gramme or more of phosphorus, and o.oi gramme or more of iron. Finally, 
a C diet is one which fails in one or more respects to meet minimum average require- 
ments — i.e., it provides for one or more of the nutrients mentioned less than the 
amounts specified for diet B. 

1 U.S. Department of Agriculture: Agricultural Outlook Charts — " Farm 
Family Living and Summaries ". (Washington, 1936.) 



— 283 — 

incomes rise, but a certain number of inadequate diets are to be 
found even in the fourth group, whose food was valued at between 
$97 and $129 per head per year; over half of this group secured 
A diets. Clearly, education might help to improve these few 
C diets, since expenditure was sufficient to procure A diets without 
any abnormal managing skill. The same fact applies to the 
B diets in the top three income ranges, where over 70% of the 
families in each case managed to reach the A standard. 

6. The nutritive composition of the diets of families within 
the same food-expenditure group also varies widely. Table II, 
on the next two pages, shows an analysis of diets of seventy-three 
families divided into three such food-expenditure groups. 

Adequate allowances of the various nutrients recommended by 
the Bureau of Home Economics are appended to indicate the 
degree to which these requirements are met in the different income 
groups. It will be seen that, even in the lowest income group, 
where insufficiency is found in most nutrients, there are some 
diets which attain the required standards (except in the case of 
calcium); while in the second group, where adequacy is reached 
in a considerable proportion of cases, there are still some cases of 
insufficiency in respect of each nutrient (cases of inadequate 
calcium intake appear even in the highest class) . These deviations 
again suggest that considerable improvement could be effected by 
educational methods. 

7. An analysis of a recent Swedish investigation into family 
living 1 reveals similar evidence of the scope for nutritional educa- 
tion. Although the average intake of various nutrients and of 
calories increased with increasing income, considerable dispersion 
was found in each income class, the dispersion in each class being 
about as great (measured by the coefficient of variation ^) as was 
found for the whole population. Moreover, the relatively satis- 
factory level of the mean intake of most nutrients even in the 
lowest income class examined suggested that at least the greater 
part of the inadequate diets was to be explained by lack of skill 
in management and ignorance rather than by inadequate income. 



^ Ernst Abramson: " Preliminary Report on the Composition of Swedish 
Diets." Stockholm, 1937 (mimeographed). 

„ ^ „ . . . . standard deviation 

^ Coefl&cient of variation = . 

mean 



— 284 — 



Table II. 



Distribution of Food Records, by Nutritive Content per Nutrition Unit " 

PER Day, Winter Diets, 1934/35, in North Atlantic Region * (Families of 

Employed Wage-earners and Clerical Workers). 









9 


I 





8 


ID 


I 


13 


6 


3 


12 



Number of records from families 

Suggested whose weekly per capita food 
requirements Item expenditure was: 

$i.20-$i-8o $2.38-$3-oo $3.57-84.17 

Energy value: 

Under 2,400 calories .... 9 

2,400-2,699 7 

2,700-3,299 2 

3.300 3.300-3,599 3 

3,600 calories and over ... 2 

Protein : 

Under 45 grammes 2 

45-69 grammes 13 

70 70-99 grammes 8 

100-119 grammes o 

120 grammes and over ... o 



19 



10 



Total 



31 









2 


2 





15 


6 


I 


35 


8 


4 


12 





9 


9 



Calcium : 



0.68 



Under 0.30 gramme . . 


• • 3 








3 


0.30-0.44 gramme . . . 


• • 13 


5 





18 


0.45-0.69 gramme . . . 


• • 7 


15 


3 


25 


0.70-0.99 gramme . . . 


. . 


15 


7 


22 


I gramme and over . . 


. . 


I 


4 


5 



1.32 



Phosphorus : 

Under 0.88 gramme 
0.88-1. 31 gramme . 
1.32-2 grammes . . 



2 grammes and over . 



6 








6 


14 


10 





24 


3 


24 


8 


35 





2 


6 


8 



0.15 



Iron: 



Under o.oi gramme . 
0.01-0.0149 gramme . 
0.015-0. 0199 gramme . 
0.02 gramme and over 



5 








5 


14 


14 





28 


4 


15 


4 


23 





7 


10 


17 



a Bureau of Home Economics scales of relative nutritional requirements. See footnote, page 235, Part III, 
Chapter 5. 

b " Nutritive Value of Diets of Families of Wage-earners and Clerical Workers in North Atlantic Cities, 
1934/35 ". Monthly Labor Review, July 1936. 



— 285 — 

Table II (continued). 



Suggested 
requirements 



Item 



Number of records from families 

whose weekly per capita food 

expenditure was: 

$i.2o-$i.8o $2.38-$3.oo $3-57-$4i7 



Vitamin A: 

Under 3,000 International 

units " 

3,000-5,500 International units 

4,000-5,500 5,500-11,000 Internat. units . 

11,000 International units and 

over 

Vitamin B (Bj) : 

Under 70 International units "' 
70-125 International units . 
125-200 125-200 International units . 
200-250 International units . 
250 International units and 
over 

Vitamin C: 

Under 500 International units'* 
500-750 International units . 
700-1,000 750-1,000 International units 
1,000-1,500 Internat. units . 
1,500 International units and 
over 

Vitamin G (Bg) : 

Under 300 Sherman units 
300-499 Sherman units . . . 
500-750 500-749 Sherman units . . . 

750-999 Sherman units . . . 
1,000 Sherman units and over 



o 
15 
17 



o 
o 

8 



2 
6 
9 
5 



I 

12 

10 

o 

o 



o 

I 

4 

15 

16 



o 

4 

22 
8 
2 



o 
o 
o 

2 
12 



O 

o 

I 
9 
4 



Total 



5 
23 
32 

13 



2 








2 


5 


6 





21 


3 


17 


I 


21 


3 


II 


4 


18 



II 

2 

7 
13 

22 

29 



I 
16 
33 

17 
6 



a The data relating to vitamins A, Bi and C in the above table have been roughly converted from Sherman 
into International units by means of conversion coefficients computed by Dr. Harriette Chick and given 
in footnote c on page 253. The suggested requirements and classifications in the original table were 
as follows: 



Suggested requirements: 



3,000-4,000 



500-750 



75-100 



The frequencies then remain the same. 



Vitamin A: 

Under 2,000 Sherman units 
2,000-3,999 Sherman units 
4,000-7,999 Sherman units 
8,000 Sherman units and over. 

Vitamin B (Bi): 

Under 300 Sherman units 
300-499 Sherman units 
500-749 Sherman units 
750-999 Sherman units 
1,000 Sherman units and over. 

Vitamin C: 

Under 50 Sherman units 
50-74 Sherman units 
75-99 Sherman units 
100-149 Sherman units 
150 Sherman units and over. 



— 286 — 

The following analysis of the vitamin content of diets at three 
income-levels shows that, although the sub-standard percentage 
decreased with increasing income, even in the lowest group, a 
large proportion of the sample secured an adequate intake ; and 
the mean intake of each vitamin was above the standard, suggesting 
that by skilful education it should not be hard to eliminate the 
sub-standard percentages altogether. 

Table III. 

Vttamin Intake in Different Income Groups (Sweden). 

Income group: 1,500-3,000 crowns 3,000-5,000 crowns 5,000 crowns and over 

Vitamin: A Bi B2 C A Bi B2 C A Bi B2 C 

Mean a intake .... 4,131 328 684 58 4,374 320 658 61 5,017 308 658 67 
Percentage below 

standard b 43 32 39 21 32 36 47 i6 12 44 47 8 

a The mean values for the different income groups have been rendered comparable by standardising the 
populations in regard to distribution of different family t>'pes. 
b The following standards were employed: 
Vitamin 

A 4,000 International units 

Bi 300 International units 

B2 650 Sherman-Bourquin units 

C 50 milligrammes of ascorbic acid. 

8. The fact that the above examples have been taken from 
countries with relatively high planes of living must not be taken 
to imply that scope for education does not exist also in poorer 
communities. 

Confirmation of the thesis that nutritional education can play 
an important part in determining health standards was provided 
by an investigation into " Poverty, Nutrition and Growth " 
among slum children in Scotland, published in 1926.^ Here, the 
factor of " maternal efficiency " was found to be more closely 
correlated to the nutritional condition of the children than income 
(per person), air-space (a measure of overcrowding) or the health 
of the mother. A significant correlation was found between 
maternal efficiency and physique of children from i to 4 years in 
Glasgow, Edinburgh and Dundee. It was supposed that the other 
factors, such as housing conditions, the size of the family and the 
health of the mother, although not directly related to the 



1 Medical Research Council: Special Report No. loi — " Poverty, Nutrition and 
Growth." 1926. 



— 287 — 

nutritional state of the children, probably exercised an indirect 
effect through their influence on the maternal efficiency factor. 
Maternal efficiency cannot be exactly defined; but the very close 
agreement found among the various investigators taking part in the 
study appeared to justify a statistical classification of mothers as 
either good and efficient with houses and children well cared for, or 
bad and inefficient with children and houses badly cared for. The 
quality of " maternal efficiency " thus determined would seem to 
be an element susceptible to considerable improvement by educa- 
tional means. 

9. An attempt has been made in Czechoslovakia to show the 
possibility of improving the quality of workmen's diets without 
increasing total expenditure on food, and taking into account, as 
far as possible, existing food habits and preferences.^ The actual 
food consumption recorded ^ by ten workmen's families (each 
containing five members) in 1930/31 was taken as the basis. The 
diet was found to be adequate as regards calories, but deficient in 
proteins and with a low mineral and vitamin content. The 
changes proposed consisted chiefly of substantial increases in the 
consumption of milk and milk products and of fruit and vegetables ; 
to compensate for these increases in cost and quantity, it was 
suggested that some more expensive cuts of meat should be replaced 
by cheaper ones and by fish; fat and sugar consumption should 
be reduced, flour to some extent replaced by potatoes, and alcohol 
entirely eliminated. Table IV, on the following page, shows the 
principal changes recommended. 

The cost of the recommended diet was calculated to be about 
the same as that of the original. The authors of the study 
conclude that, " for the sum actually spent on food, the worker 
could procure a physiologically satisfactory diet ", and that it is 
the task of popular health education to provide him with the 
knowledge required to achieve this. 

10. The importance of education and its power to contribute 
towards the solution of the nutrition problem is naturally greater 



^ M. Cakrtova, H. Pelc, M. Podzimkova-Rieglova: " Essai pour I'etablisse- 
ment d'un type de regime alimentaire pour une famille ouvrifere." Les Travaux de 
rinstitut d'Hygiene de I'Etat, No. 3. (Prague, 1936.) 

2 State Statistical Bureau enquiry into family living. 



— 288 



Table IV. 

Comparison of Actual and Recommended Diets at Equal Cost 

(Czechoslovakia) . 

Quantities (kg.) Difference 

Food Actual Recommended Kg. % 

Meat 94.90 88.66 — 6.24 — 6.6 

Eggs 22.56 22.56 0.00 0.0 

Fish 4-00 10.81 + 6.81 + 170.3 

Total 121.46 122.03 + 0.57 + 0.5 

Milk 446.50 853.11 +406.61 + 9I-I 

Sour milk (Caillebotte) . . . 538 22.45 + 17.07 + 317.3 

Cheese 5-38 5-85 + 0.47 + 8.7 

Total 457-26 881.41 + 424-15 + 92.8 

Fats 67.53 60.65 — 6.88 — 10.2 

All animal foods . 646.25 1,064.09 + 417.84 + 64.7 

Cereals 20.47 25.12 + 4-65 + 22.7 

Flour 199-70 178.51 — 21.19 — 10.6 

Flour products, bread, etc. . 338.34 338.34 0.00 0.0 

Total 558.51 541-97 — 16.54 — 3.0 

Cabbage 93-i6 147-64 + 54-48 + 58.5 

Fruits (fresh and preserved) . 63.45 117-63 + 54-i8 + 85.4 

Potatoes 320.00 353-83 + 33-83 + 10.6 

Legumes 4.50 7.52 + 3.02 + 67.1 

Total 481. II 626.62 + 145-51 + 30-2 

Sugar and sweets 120.55 102.15 — 18.40 — 15.3 

Spices 36.83 34-97 — 1-86 — 5-i 

Alcoholic drinks 128.81 0.00 — 128.81 _ loo.o 

All vegetable foods 1,325.81 1,305.71 — 20.10 — 1.5 

All foods .... 1,972.06 2,369.80 + 397-74 + 20.2 



— 289 — 

in the higher-income ranges. Education can mitigate the evil 
among lower-income groups, but not remove it. Thus the corrected 
diet of the Czechoslovak worker cannot be obtained by those 
whose incomes do not suffice for the original diet. It was estimated 
that only 20% of the workers in the country, or 40% of those 
who were in a position to marry (the figure for Prague was judged 
to be higher — 60 to 70%),^ could support a family of five members 
at that level. 

Table V. 

Estimated Annual per Caput Consumption of Various Foods in Different 

Countries (Average 1930-1934) "•. 



Austria 

Belgium 

Czechoslovakia . . 
Denmark .... 

Finland 

France 

Germany .... 

Italy 

Netherlands . . . 

Norway 

Poland 

Roumania .... 

Sweden 

Switzerland . . . 
United Kingdom . 

Canada 

United States . . 
Australia .... 
New Zealand . . 



Milk 
and cream 

Litres 


Butter 
Kg. 


Meat 
Kg. 


Eggs 
Number 


Imported 
citrus fruits 
(1934) 
Kg. 


200 * 


2.8 * 


— 


98 


4.0 


79 


9-4 


41 


236 


9.2 


155 


— 


33 


115 


2.7 


164 


8.0 


62 


III 


3-7 





— 


27 


41 


— 


105 


6.0 


34 


149 


8.4 


107 


7-4 


51 


129 


5-1 


34 


I.I 


16 


119 




117 


7-4 


46 


134 


7-5 




— 


33 


124 


7-7 


. — 


— 


19 


no 


0.5 


— 


— 




IIO'^ 


0.7 




— 


36 


no 


6.0 


263 


6.5 


47 


157 


91 


95^ 


10. 


64 


172 


131 


, — 


13-9 


65 


285 


— 


146 


8.1 


62 


199 


— 


100 


13-4 


91 


— 


— 


128 


17.7 


104 


240 


— 



a League of Nations: " The Problem of Nutrition ", Vol. IV — " Statistics of Food Production, Consump- 
tion and Prices ", documentation prepared by the International Institute of Agriculture (Geneva, 1936), 
revised. Data given in pounds in the original; converted into kilogrammes at the rate of i lb. = 0.4536 kg. 

b 1934. c 1930. d 1933. 



II. Not only as between different income groups in one country, 
but also as between different countries, the scope for effective 
nutritional education varies. The results of educational campaigns 



^ op. cit., page 19, note. 



19 



— 290 — 

by themselves are likely to be most satisfactory in countries where 
the general plane of living is fairly high. Education is, of course, 
of great importance in poorer countries also, but it is possible to 
improve the state of nutrition by educational means only within 
the limits set by the prevailing levels of national income and its 
distribution — limits which, in poor countries, may be far below 
those nutritionally desirable. 

12. Even in countries of more or less similar planes of living, 
however, striking differences are to be found in the per caput 
consumption of many of the important foodstuffs (see Table V). 
This suggests the existence of considerable scope for improvement 
of national health standards through nutritional education as well 
as through changes in prices. 

Attention has already been drawn, for instance, to the relatively 
low milk consumption in Great Britain compared with that of 
other countries on roughly similar planes of living; clearly, this 
country should be able to afford a higher rate of milk consumption 
if made fully aware of the nutritional advantages involved. In 
the same way, the butter consumption of some of the important 
dairying countries seems remarkably low; in some cases, moreover, 
it is accompanied by a high margarine consumption, suggesting 
an insufficient realisation of the superior nutritive value of butter. 

C. Measures for spreading Information on 
Rational Nutrition 

13. A great deal of progress has already been made in most 
parts of the world in the dissemination among the public of a 
knowledge of the correct principles of nutrition. 

14. Detailed information on the various measures adopted in 
different countries has already been presented by the Mixed 
Committee in Volume III of its interim report.^ A number of 
different methods is there disclosed, corresponding to some extent 
to the differences in social, political and economic organisation 
and the particular nutritional problems of the individual countries. 



1 League of Nations: "The Problem of Nutrition", Vol. Ill— " Nutrition in 
Various Countries ", 1936. 



— 291 — • 

The organs responsible for the spread of nutritional information 
vary from country to country. In some, the State plays the main 
role; in others, voluntary or private commercial organisations 
are more active. The national branches of the Red Cross have 
prepared exhibitions, arranged lecture courses and published 
pamphlets in a number of countries. Women's institutes also have 
organised conferences and arranged for demonstrations and lectures 
on cooking and food values in the local branches. Co-operative 
organisations have published articles and books on various questions 
related to popular nutrition. 

In addition to such educational campaigns based mainly on 
nutritional considerations, propaganda for the consumption of 
particular foodstuffs has been carried out by producers' organisa- 
tions and marketing boards. In the case of " milk weeks ", 
" egg v/eeks ", " fish weeks ", or the promotion of the consumption 
of fruit and vegetables, the nutritional arguments run entirely in 
line with the economic interests of producers. In other cases, 
the encouragement of consumption for commercial reasons may 
not receive so ready a blessing from the nutritionist experts. It 
is clear that an understanding among the general public of the 
principles of rational feeding is necessary in order to enable it to 
distinguish " true " from " false " nutritional propaganda. 

15. Systematic education in the principles of sound feeding 
must be carried out within the framework of the given adminis- 
trative and educational system. A primary necessity is the 
education in nutritional questions of public health authorities, and 
particularly those responsible for the administration of relief. 
Another essential step is the education of all mothers, more 
especially those who are pregnant or nursing, on the best diets 
for themselves and their children. Such instruction is being given 
in a great many countries through infant welfare centres and 
followed up by further advice through health visitors in the homes. 

General education in the preparation and marketing of food is 
provided in most countries in the domestic science lessons for 
girls in elementary and secondary schools. The value of these 
lessons depends largely on the nature of the instruction in the 
principles of nutrition given to the teachers themselves during 
their period of training. Increasing attention is being devoted to 
this important pivot of general nutrition education. Additional 



— 292 — 

possibilities are offered by evening classes and adult schools where 
lectures on cookery and dietetics are normally provided. It is 
important that such instruction should emphasise the importance 
of the correct preparation as well as the correct selection of foods. 

16. In addition to the instruction of the housewife of the 
present or future, particular importance attaches to the nutritional 
education of those responsible for collective feeding — in schools, in 
institutions, and in the army and navy. Growing attention has 
already been devoted to nutrition in these fields in most countries, 
and steps are even being taken to instruct hotel and restaurant 
managers in the newer knowledge of nutrition. 

17. The main channels for spreading information to the general 
public have been special pamphlets, articles in the daily Press and 
in technical or popular periodicals, broadcast talks (which are of 
special use in reaching scattered populations), lantern lectures, 
film strips and, in some cases, the distribution free or at reduced 
prices of important foods such as milk, with a view to increasing 
their popularity and establishing the habit of their consumption. 

18. Especially useful are suggestions for various diets providing 
all necessary nutritive elements and calculated to fit different 
expenditure levels. An interesting type of popular nutritional 
education by means of diagrams may be cited from the United 
States. Diagram I is part of a series of diagrams prepared 
by the Bureau of Home Economics of the Department of Agri- 
culture showing roughly how i cent's worth of different foods 
compare in essential nutrients. The quantities of the various 
nutrients obtained for i cent (at July 1936 prices) are expressed 
in shares of the total requirements of the nutrient in question 
for a normal adult male (thirty such shares make up total require- 
ments for twenty-four hours). The diagram is given merely as an 
example of an effective form of popular nutritional education, and 
not as scientifically accurate general information. It is, in fact, 
impossible for such a diagram to give more than a very rough and 
general guide, owing to the wide variations in the nutritive content 
of particular foods according to quality, condition of freshness, 
whether raw or cooked, the method of preparation, the parts 
actually consumed. The value of the diagram lies in its attempt 
to translate abstract technical nutritive requirements into concrete 



— 293 — 



Diagram I. 



How A Cent's Worth of Different Foods compare in Essential Nutrients. 

(United States, July 1936.) 



CALORIES--- 
PROTEINE --- 

CALCIUM 

PHOSPHORE 

PER 

VITAMINES A- 
VITAMINES B- 
VITAMINES C- 
VITAMINES G- 



CALORIES-- 
PHOTEIN--- 
CAUCIUM -- 
PHOSPHORL 

IRON 

VITAMIN A- 
VITAMIN B- 
VITAMIN C- 
VITAMIN G- 



paTnTblanc) 

I BREAD (WHITE ) * I 
{AT ABOUT 8CENTS PER POUND) 



I I SUCRE 1 1 

I SUGAR ] 

I AT ABOUT S'/J CENTS PER POUND) 



TOMATE3 (CONSERVES) 

TOMATOES (CANNED) 
AT ABOUT 9 CENTS PER 19-OUNCE CAK 



I PAIN COMPLET I 

BREAD (WHOLE WHEAT)' 

(AT ABOUT 9CENTS PER POUND) 



\ I OEUPS I 

I EGGS I 

(AT ABOUT 31 CENTS PER DOZEN) 



I POMMES 

I APPLES 1 I 

( AT ABOUT 5 '/2 CENTS PER POUND) 



CALORIES ■ ■ 
PR0TE1NE-- 
CALCIUM -- 
PHOSPHORE 

PER- - 

VITAMINES I 
VITAMINES i 
VITAMINES I 
VITAMINES I 



CALORIES 

PROTEIN 

CALCIUM 

PHOSPHORUS 

IRON 

VITAMIN A--- 

VITAMIN B 

VITAMIN C- - 
VITAMIN G--- 



~1 RIZ (SLANCi ^ 

RICE (WHITE) 

[ AT ABOUT 8'/ 2 CENTS PER POUND) 



COTELETTES DE PORC 

PORK CHOPS 

(AT ABOUT 3i* CENTS PER POUND) 



I ORANGES I 

(AT ABOUT 1 CENTS PER POUND) 



POMMES OE TERRE (BLANCHES) 

POTATOES (WHITE ) 
(AT ABOUT 3CENTS PERPOUNO) 



I LAIT (COMPLET) i 

MILK (WHOLE ) 
(AT ABOUT 12 CENTS PER QUART) 



PBUNEAUX SECS 

I PRUNES (DRIED) I 
( AT ABOUT 9 CENTS PER POUND) 



CALORIES --- 
PR0TE1NE-- 

CALCIUM 

PHOSPHORE 
FER 
VITAMINES A- 
VITAMINES B- 
VITAMINES C- 
VITAMINES G- 



CALORIES ■ -• 

PROTEIN 

CALCIUM 

PHOSPHORUS 

IRON 

VITAMIN A--- 
VITAMIN B --■ 
VITAMIN C -- - 
VITAMIN G--- 



I HARICOTS SECS I 

DRIED NAVY BEANS 

(AT ABOUT 6 CENTS PER POUND) 




i POIE DE BOEUF I 

LIVER (BEEF) 

( AT ABOUT 25 CENTS PER POUND 1 



I EPINARDS 

I I SPINACH I I 

I AT ABOUT 7 CENTS PER POUND ) 



SAINDOUX 

I LARD 1 

(AT ABOUT re CENTS PER POUND) 



I SAUMON(ROSE) I 

SALMON ( PINK) 

(AT ABOUT 13 CENTS PER POUND) 



CALORIES--- 

PROTEINE 

CALCIUM 

PHOSPHORE 

FER -- 

VITAMINES A- 
VITAMINES B- 
VITAMINES C- 
VITAMINES G- 



BEURREI 

I BUTTER I 

(AT ABOUT 3S CENTS PEOPOUND) 



FROMAGE 
i 1 CHEESE I 

(AT ABOUT 27 CENTS PER POUND) 



i 



GAROTTES 
CARROTS I 

(AT ABOUT SCENTS PERP0Uf4D) 



I I CHOUX I I 

I (CABBAGE I 

(AT ABOUT «, CENTS PER POUND) 



O 5 10 15 20 25 300 5 10 15 20 



»AU LAIT- MADE WITH MILK 



NOMBRE DE PARTS 



2S 30 5 10 15 20 25 iO 

NUMBER OF SHARES sdn 7331 



— 294 — 

quantities of familiar foods at current prices, so as to give a 
practical guide to housewives with restricted means in the purchase 
of inexpensive nutritive diets. 

19. Instruction is sometimes given as to the best method of 
adjusting diets to the seasonal changes in relative prices and in 
available foods or to special emergencies, so that the maximum 
nutritive value for the minimum cost may always be obtained. 
Further, detailed information is furnished in some countries on 
methods of supplementing diets or reducing their cost through 
home garden produce and home preservation of various foods. 
It is essential that national nutrition authorities should adapt the 
general nutritional information provided to the situation in the 
various regions of the country — both as regards the particular 
foods available, the relative prices of the alternative sources of 
the same nutrients and the level of income of the population 
concerned. Where imported foods are not easily accessible, the 
best substitutes from a nutritional point of view should be indicated. 

20. Detailed accounts of the effect on nutrition of education 
measures actually adopted are, unfortunately, scarce. The report 
by a nutritionist on three years' work in a rural community of 
New York State may, however, be cited by way of example. ^ 
An enquiry was made in 1927 among ninety-three families whose 
diets had been surveyed at the beginning of an educational cam- 
paign in 1924, and in almost all cases an improvement was noted. 
Twenty-two families reported an increased use of milk, and forty- 
eight that they had been using more vegetables of various kinds; 
thirty-eight increased the use of green vegetables and fifty-three 
were eating more raw vegetables. Many families living on farms 
had been stimulated to plant gardens and provide themselves with 
an abundant supply of green vegetables. Instruction had been 
given in the storing of green vegetables for winter use, and this 
practice was found to have spread considerably. Forty-eight 
families reported that they ate more fruit; forty-seven, more 
tomatoes; thirty-five, more whole-grain cereals; fifty, more whole- 
grain bread; and thirty-three, more eggs. At the same time, 
forty-one families reported a decline in meat consumption. 



^ Ruby McOdell: " Improving the Dietary Habits of a Rural Community." 
(Milbank Memorial Fund, New York, 1929.) 



— 295 — 

The improvement in health following these dietary changes was 
recognised by the families themselves. 

There had been no special nutrition education of individual 
families, and an attempt was made to find which part of the 
general nutrition programme had been the most effective in bring- 
ing about the changes registered during the three years of the 
campaign. Forty-nine families attributed the changes to the 
lectures organised by the Home Bureau; thirty-two said that the 
influence had come through the instruction received by the children 
in the schools; and thirty-four attributed the main influence to 
the public health nurses. 

An interesting feature brought out by this enquiry was the 
changes in the types of goods kept in the country food stores 
which followed the increased demand for protective foods. " Local 
stores, in order to supply the insistent demand for certain essential 
foods, were forced to add to their regular stock such things as 
green vegetables, fruit and whole-grain cereals, which in the past 
many of them had supplied erratically or not at all." As a result 
of a talk on the nutritive value of the cabbage, a merchant in 
one community sold a carload of cabbages in a week, whereas 
that quantity had normally lasted him one month. 

21. It would be of great use for future organisers of campaigns 
of nutritional education if they could have more such data on 
the effects of past efforts, and particularly on the methods of 
education which had been found to yield the best results. 



— 296 — 



Chapter 7. 
EVIDENCE OF MALNUTRITION IN CERTAIN COUNTRIES 

1. In previous chapters of this report, two conflicting sets of 
tendencies have been revealed, one of which (the general rise in 
national incomes, and particularly real labour incomes, the spread 
of knowledge regarding correct principles of nutrition and scientific 
progress in agriculture) has made for a marked improvement in 
nutrition, while the other (the persistence, in many parts, of poverty, 
ignorance and factors artificially raising food prices) has prevented 
the improvement from going so far as could be wished. The net 
result of these conflicting tendencies in the different countries is 
the level of nutrition as it exists to-day. It would be desirable 
to give at this point a description of the prevailing level of nutrition 
in different parts of the world, in order to illustrate the real scope 
and significance of the present problem of malnutrition. 

2. Unfortunately, with the information at present available, 
it is impossible to do so. Statistics of the average national con- 
sumption of various foods, based on figures of production and trade, 
would be misleading for this purpose, as they conceal the differences 
— ^which the preceding chapters have shown to be wide — between 
the food consumption of the various income and social groups. 
A great many studies of the food-consumption habits and nutri- 
tional standards of particular groups of individuals and families 
have been made, but the number of individuals and families included 
in the sample is generally so small, and drawn from so restricted 
an area or population group, that it would be extremely dangerous 
to generalise on the results of these studies. Moreover, different 
norms have been used by different investigators in assessing the 
nutritional status of the population groups they have examined, 
so that any international comparison is, at the present time, out 
of the question, and even national studies must be treated with 
extreme caution. 



— 297 — 

The paucity of the information available is to be deplored, as 
it is obvious that an accurate knowledge of the facts must form 
the basis of a sound nutrition policy. At the present stage of the 
movement towards better nutrition, the collection of information 
on food consumption habits and nutritional standards is a funda- 
mental and pressing need. Within the past year, two groups of 
experts, meeting under the auspices of the League of Nations, 
have made important contributions in this field. One group, 
which met at Geneva in December 1936 to consider methods of 
assessing the state of nutrition of children and young people, 
decided to recommend three types of enquiries applicable to different 
requirements. Discussion of the question of the methods appro- 
priate to general surveys of the food-consumption habits of a 
nation as a whole occupied a considerable part of the time of the 
representatives of national Nutrition Committees who met at 
Geneva in February 1937. It is to be hoped that use will be made 
of the results of these various discussions by public and private 
authorities and that the information at present available regarding 
food-consumption habits and nutritional status will become 
progressively more complete and reliable. 

3. For the present, it is therefore necessary to limit this expo- 
sition to a few examples of the nutritional situation, drawn from 
different parts of the world. It is necessary to emphasise that 
the paragraphs which follow do not purport to give a comprehensive 
picture, but merely to show that the problem of malnutrition is a 
real one and that it exists in countries of the most diverse social 
structure and stage of economic development. 

United States of America and Western Europe. 

4. In the United States, Sweden and the United Kingdom, 
attempts have been made during the past two years to study 
and analyse in detail the food-consumption habits of large and 
representative groups of the population. As it happens, these are 
all countries where the general plane of living is relatively high.^ 



1 It is hardly necessary to substantiate this statement, but substantiation can 
be found in the figures of per caput consumption of different foods published in 
League of Nations: " The Problem of Nutrition," Vol. IV — " Statistics of Foo- 
Production, Consumption and Prices ". (Geneva, 1936.) 



— 298 — 

5- Records of food consumption of a very large number of 
families have recently been collected by the United States Bureau 
of Labor Statistics for the purpose of revising cost of food indices. 
A preliminary analysis of the content, nutritional adequacy and 
economy of a selection of these diets has been made by the Bureau 
of Home Economics. When the analysis of the material collected 
by the Bureau of Labor Statistics is completed and when the 
results of the study of consumer purchases (co-operatively under- 
taken by the Bureau of Home Economics, Bureau of Labor 
Statistics, National Resources Committee and Works Progress 
Administration) are available, it will be possible to assess with a 
high degree of accuracy the adequacy of diets in the United States 
as a whole. The preliminary material already published throws, 
however, a considerable amount of light on the food habits and 
nutritional state of the population groups to which it relates. 

Records relating to the food expenditure (at various periods 
from 1934 to 1936) of 2,746 families of wage-earners and clerical 
workers living in four different sections ^ of the country showed 
the following percentage distribution of food expenditure per person 
per year: ^ 

Table I. 

Distribution of Families according to Annual Food Expenditure per Head 

(United States). 

Food expenditure Percentage distribution 

per person per year of the 2,746 families 

1. Under $32 o 

2. $32465 2 

3- l65-$97 14 

4. $97-1129 28 

5. $i29-$i6i 25 

6. $i6i-$i93 15 

7. $i93-$226 8 

8. $226-$258 4 

9. $258-1290 2 

10. $290 and over 2 



100 



1 New England, Middle Atlantic, East South Central (white families and negro 
families) and Pacific. 

2 Adjusted to March-May 1935 price-levels. See Hazel K. Stiebeling: " Food 
Consumption of Urban and Village Families at Different Levels of Food Expendi- 
ture " in Journal of Home Economics, January 1937. 



— 299 



Table II. 

Distribution of 897 Dietary Records according to Grade of Diet by Level 
OF Expense for Food, Region and Colour of Family (United States). 

Level of expense for food, Number Percentage of diets classified as: 

region, and colour of family of records Grade A Grade B Grade C 

I . Families spending $1.33 to $1.99 per food 

cost unit " per week for food (group 3 of 

Table I): 

North Atlantic, white 117 2 37 61 

Pacific, white 21 10 33 57 

East South Central \ ^^^'" " " ' " "^ 6 35 59 

negro .... 83 4 31 65 



{ 

Total or average 335 4 35 61 



2. Families spending $2.67 to $3.32 per 
head cost unit per week for food 
(group 5 of Table I) : 

North Atlantic, white 253 27 65 8 

Pacific, white 132 39 57 4 

East South Central f ^^^'^ ' " " " ^3 55 43 

I negro .... 18 55 28 17 



Total or average 456 35 59 6 

3. Families spending §4.00 to $4.66 per 
food cost unit per week for food 
(group 7 of Table I) : 

North Atlantic, white 69 77 19 4 

Pacific, white 37 78 22 o 

Total or average 106 77 20 3 

4. Groups I, 2 and 3 above combined: 

North Atlantic, white 439 28 50 22 

Pacific, white 190 44 47 9 

East South Central ■! .... / - 3 4 

negro .... loi 13 31 57 



{ 
{ 



Total or average { .... / 3 4/ 

negro .... loi 13 31 57 

All families covered 897 29 45 26 

a See footnote b page 253. Adjusted to 1935 retail food prices. 



— 300 — 

One-sixth of the famiHes included in this sample were spending 
less that $97 per head per year for food. Of this sixth of the 
population covered, it is remarked that " families spending at these 
low levels are very likely to have diets deficient in one or more 
nutritive factors; in fact, about two-thirds of those spending 
between $65 and $97 per capita per year for food had diets which 
failed to meet average ' minimum requirements ' in one or more 
respects " } Nearly 30% spent between $97 and $129 per head 
per year for food; " the diets of most of these families tend to 
meet average requirements, but have an uncertain margin for 
safety ". The families spending more than $129 per head per 
year could, with careful selection and preparation of food, obtain 
a fully adequate diet ; but it was found that only half of the group 
spending from $193 to $226 per head " had diets providing a 
generous margin of safety in all nutritional essentials ". 

6. The nutritive content of the diets of 897 families falling in 
level-of-food-expense groups 3, 5 and 7 of Table I, was analysed. 
The distribution of the dietary records according to grade of diet, 
by level of expense for food, region and colour of family is shown 
in Table II on the preceding page.^ 

The last line of this table shows that, of the 897 families, 29% 
had grade A diets, 45 % grade B diets and 26 % grade C diets. ^ In 
other words, nearly three-quarters of the observed population had 
diets which are regarded as falling short of the optimum: their 
intake of one or more essential nutrients fell below the standard 
considered necessary for health and efficiency or failed to provide 
the requisite " margin of safety ". 

Nearly 90 % of the observed negro population had diets classified 
as B or C; for the white population, the percentage was almost 70. 
A higher proportion of the population of the Pacific region obtained 
A diets than of the North Atlantic or East South Central regions. 
This is partly due to the fact that more of the observed families 
of the Pacific region fell in the higher level-of-expense-for-food 



^ Ibid., page lo. 

2 From an unpublished study by Hazel K. Stiebeling: " Diets of Families of 
Wage-earners and Low-salaried Clerical Workers living in Industrial Communities 
in Three Regions of the United States, 1934-1936." (Mimeographed, Washington, 
February 1937.) Reproduced by courtesy of the author. 

3 For the precise definition of the nutritive contents of the three grades of diet, 
see first footnote on page 281. 



— 301 — 

groups ; it may also be due in part to lower food prices. It will be 
observed that within any given region and level-of-expense-for-food 
group there is a wide distribution in the character of the diet 
obtained by different families. 

7. Analyses of the material collected by the Bureau of Labor 
Statistics on food-consumption habits of non-urban families have 
not yet been published. The Bureau of Home Economics has, 
however, recently analysed the results of a number of studies made 
by, different investigators between 1917 and 1932.^ The per captd 
money value of the food consumed ^ by the 544 families covered in 
the different studies was adjusted to 1935 price-levels to render 
them roughly comparable. The percentage distribution of the 
records according to level of money value of food per head and type 
of diet obtained is shown below : 

Table III. 

Distribution of Farm Family Diets according to Grade of Diet, by Value 

OF Food (United States). 

Annual money value Percentage Percentage distribution by grade 

of food per head of records of diet 

ABC 

1. Under $32 2 o 9 91 

2. $32-165 17 4 50 46 

3. $65-197 34 26 56 18 

4. $97-$i29 30 55 41 4 

5. $i29-|i6i 12 74 26 o 

6. $i6i-$i93 4 90 10 o 

7. $i93-f226 I 87 13 o 

On account of the methods used, the results are, of course, less 
reliable than those quoted in the previous paragraph for industrial 
workers. They suggest, however, that the incidence of malnutri- 
tion is at least as great in rural as in urban communities; in both 
cases, an appreciable fraction of the population is, for one reason 
or another, failing to secure a diet deemed adequate for health and 
efficiency. 

8. Assessments of the nutritional status of children in the 
United States made at various periods in recent decades have 



^ U.S. Department of Agriculture: Agricultural Outlook Charts, 1937 — " Farm 
Family Living and Summaries." (Washington, November 1936.) 

2 Food produced and consumed on the farm was valued at wholesale prices 
prevailing in the nearest market. 



— 302 — 

revealed a considerable degree of malnutrition. It must, however, 
be emphasised that the standards used are not uniform in the 
different studies, and in some cases the classification is largely based 
upon the personal appreciation of the investigator. The examples 
which follow are quoted merely with a view to demonstrating the 
existence of malnutrition, and cannot be taken as necessarily 
reflecting accurately its extent. 

In a summary ^ of thirteen investigations, each involving thou- 
sands of children, carried out between 1906 and 1924, the average 
percentage suffering from malnutrition on the basis of clinical 
examination was judged to be 22.3. In seventeen investigations 
carried out during 1918-1924, weight in relation to height was used 
as a criterion of nutritional status, and 32.7% were judged to 
be malnourished. In a clinical examination of several hundred 
New York school-children made in 1933, the nutrition of more than 
a third of the children was rated as " poor " or " very poor ".^ 
Investigators have found a high prevalence of rickets among 
children; writing in 1921, Hess and Unger said that " fully three- 
fourths of the infants in the great cities, such as New York, show 
rachitic signs of some degree ".^ 

Of the deficiency diseases attacking adults, pellagra is to be found 
in the United States. Nearly 7,000 deaths from this disease were 
recorded in 1928, or 6.1 per 100,000 inhabitants. By 1933, the 
number of deaths had fallen to less than 4,000, or 3.1 per 100,000 
inhabitants. Pellagra is practically confined to the Southern States, 
where maize is the staple cereal; in 1930, the pellagra death rate in 
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi and 
Arkansas was 29.4 per 100,000 inhabitants. 

9. An analysis has recently been made of the nutritional content 
and adequacy of the diets of Swedish wage-earners, low-salaried 
employees and members of the " middle class ".■* The original 
data on food consumption were obtained in connection with the 



1 Roberts: "Nutrition Work with Children" (1927). 

2 KisER and Stix: " Nutrition and the Depression " in Quarterly Bulletin of the 
Milbank Memorial Fund, October 1933. 

3 See Burnet and Aykroyd: "Nutrition and Public Health", in Quarterly 
Bulletin of the Health Organisation of the League of Nations, June 1935. 

* Ernst Abramson: " Preliminary Report on the Composition of Swedish 
Diets." Stockholm, 1937 (mimeographed). 



— 303 — 

Social Board's investigation of living conditions and household 
habits made in 1933; they relate to the year November 1932- 
November 1933. Of the household records thus made available, 
1,245 were analysed on behalf of the Swedish National Nutrition 
Committee. The average calorie value of the diets was found to 
exceed 3,500 calories; their average protein content was about 
100 grammes, the fat content 140 grammes and the carbohydrate 
content 425 grammes. Average calcium content was over i gramme 
per day, phosphorus content around 1.85 grammes and iron content 
17 milligrammes. There were, however, wide differences in the 
consumption of different income and family-type groups and 
considerable deviations in the value of the individual diets within 
each homogeneous group. A detailed analysis was made of the 
material to determine how large a proportion of the various popula- 
tion groups failed to secure adequate intake of various nutrients. 
The results are shown below : 

Table IV. 

Percentage of Dietaries below Standard in respect 
TO THE Specified Nutrients (Sweden). 

Protein Calories Calcium Phosphorus Iron 
0/ 0/ 0/ 0/ 0/ 

/o /o /o /o /o 

All families 3.1 15.4 2.1 4.6 23.0 

Workers 2.9 12.7 2.2 2.9 22.1 

Salaried employees 2.9 16. i 2.7 4.4 23.3 

Middle class 3.4 17. i 2.0 4.0 24.8 

Middle part of Sweden (Svealand) . 2.4 13.3 1.9 3.4 22.1 
Southern part of Sweden (Norra 

Gotaland) 2.4 15.4 1.5 2.7 27.1 

Southernmost part of Sweden (Sodra 

Gotaland) 4.3 17. i 5.2 4.7 18.9 

Northern part of Sweden (Norrland) 3.3 14.9 i.o 2.7 23.9 

The standards of adequacy adopted are 3,000 calories per con- 
sumption unit per day, 70 grammes of protein, 0.68 grammes of 
calcium, 1.32 grammes of phosphorus and 15 milligrammes of iron. 
It will be observed that 15% of the observed population failed 
to secure this standard of calorie intake and nearly a quarter of 
the population failed to secure the " norm " of iron intake. Further 
calculations showed that 27% of all the dietaries were deficient 
in vitamin A (4,000 International units was taken as standard), 



— 304 — 

36% were deficient in vitamin B^ (300 International units) and as 
many as 43% were deficient in vitamin Bg (650 Sherman-Bourquin 
units), while 14% were deficient in vitamin C (50 milligrammes 
of ascorbic acid taken as standard). 

10. During the years 1929-1931, an extensive social-hygienic 
investigation was carried out in certain parts of Sweden in an 
attempt to discover the relationship between diet and the high 
incidence of certain diseases (gastric and intestinal disturbances, 
anaemia, etc.) among the agricultural population of the coast 
district of the north of Sweden.^ Their isolation and difficulties 
in disposing of their products render the diet of this population 
monotonous and lacto-cereal, with herring used largely as a condi- 
ment. Vegetables and fruit are scarcely eaten; wood-berries are 
available, but they are eaten only to a limited extent and hardly 
ever preserved for winter use. The investigation showed that there 
was an intimate connection between the one-sided structure of 
the diet and the diseases referred to, and that the incidence of 
these diseases was very much less among the forest workers of 
the same region, whose diet includes pork, reindeer meat, sausage, 
game and fish, as well as milk and potatoes. 

11. In Norway, periodic measurements have been made of 
the weight and height of school-children of different social groups. 
The following table shows the figures concerning children 14 years 
old at different periods: 

Table V. 

Height and Weight of School-children at State 
AND Private Schools (Norway). 







State 


schools 






Private 


schools 




Boys 
Height Weight 
Cm. Kg. 


Girls 

Height Weight 

Cm. Kg. 


Boys 
Height Weight 
Cm. Kg. 


Girls 

Height Weight 

Cm. Kg. 


1920 . . 


148.2 


38.5 


150.6 


41.8 


1535 


42.4 


154.9 44.9 


1925 . . 


150.5 


40.0 


152.4 


42.4 


1559 


43-8 


155-9 45-9 


1930 . . 


I53-I 


42.6 


154-9 


45-5 


157-4 


45-5 


158.5 48.2 


1935 • • 


1550 


43-6 


157-3 


47-3 


162.7 


50.0 


161. 2 50.1 



^ Martin Odin: " Certain Kinds of Diet in connection with Diseases among 
Various Groups of Population in Various Parts of Sweden ", Acta Medica Scandi- 
navica (Upsala, 1934). 



— 305 — 

Two points in this table are of great interest. One is the steady 
increase in the height and weight of school-children in Norw^ay in 
1935: this is unquestionably connected with the improvement in 
food-consumption habits to which reference has been made in 
Part III, Chapter i. The second point of interest is the considerable 
difference which exists between the heights and weights of children 
of the same age but of different income groups. This may also be 
mainly attributed to the difference in their food consumption. 

12. For the United Kingdom, the most comprehensive survey 
of the state of nutrition available is that made by Sir John Boyd Orr 
and his colleagues in 1936.^ The data used were collected by the 
Market Supply Committee ^ and have been accepted by the 
Advisory Committee on Nutrition of the Ministry of Health as 
substantially correct. They were based upon 1,152 dietary records 
collected by various investigators between 1932 and 1935. " They 
include an undue proportion of families in the industrial north, of 
families with small incomes and relatively large numbers of depend- 
ants. Moreover, they were not distributed seasonally throughout 
the year, but tended to be concentrated in the spring and early 
summer months . . . the actual quantities and values of the 
different items in the family dietary would no doubt be somewhat 
altered if a collection of family budgets thoroughly representative 
of the whole country were available." ^ 

A series of estimates was made of the distribution of the whole 
population according to income and food expenditure per head; 
and these estimates were used in conjunction with the dietary 
records of the observed families falling within the different level-of- 
food-expenditure groups to form the basis of a generalised picture 
of the nutritional state of the population as a whole. The conclu- 
sions reached in this way were that the average diet of the 10% 
of the population with lowest incomes was " inadequate for perfect 
health in all the constituents considered " ;* that the diet of the next 



^ J. B. Orr: " Food, Health and Income." (London, 1936.) 

2 Published in the Journal of Proceedings of the Agricultural Economics Society. 

3 J. B. Orr: " Food, Health and Income", pages 61-62. 

* Standards adopted for a " moderately active man " were 3,000 calories, 67 
grammes of protein, 0.68 gramme of calcium, 1.2 grammes of phosphorus. 15 milli- 
grammes of iron, 5,600 International units (= about 4,000 Sherman units) of 
vitamin A and 1,000 International units (= about 100 Sherman units) of vitamin C 
per day. 

20 



— 3o6 — 

poorest 20% was " adequate only in total proteins and total fat " ; 
that the next 20% had a diet " adequate in energy value, protein 
and fat, but below standard in minerals and vitamins"; that the 
next 20% were " adequate in iron, phosphorus and vitamins, but 
probably below standard in calcium " ; that the next 20% " had 
an ample margin of safety in everything with the possible exception 
of calcium " ; and that in the 10% of the population with highest 
incomes, the standard requirements were exceeded in every case. 

13. The same study records the height of males of the same age 
in different social groups, and considerable differences are disclosed. 
" These differences in height are in accordance with what would be 
expected from an examination of the diets in common use in these 
classes. In the lower-income groups, the diet is relatively deficient 
in the constituents " required for growth. Too high a proportion 
of the diet consists of carbohydrate rich foods, which contain very 
little bone- and flesh-forming material ".^ Experiments carried 
out in Scotland in 1927 with a view to determining the effect of 
supplementing the diet of school-children with milk showed that 
the rate of growth of those receiving additional milk was about 
20% greater than in those not receiving additional milk. " The 
increased rate of growth was accompanied by a noticeable improve- 
ment in health and vigour ".^ With regard to the incidence of 
diseases known to be connected with diet, it is stated that rickets 
has " markedly decreased in recent years ". On the other hand, 
" about 80% of the deciduous teeth of British children are imper- 
fectly developed. Since this defect may be established before 
birth, it may in part be due to dietary deficiency in pregnancy. 
But the fact that the incisors, which are in the most advanced 
state of development at birth, are usually better calcified than the 
later-developed molars suggests that the dietary deficiency may be 
even greater in early childhood than before birth ".^ 

The Advisory Committee on Nutrition for Great Britain wrote 
in its first report, published in the spring of 1937: 

" Although much has been achieved, much still remains to be done before the 
general health and physique of the population reach the optimum level. It must 



^ Op. cit., page 41. 

2 Op. cit., pages 47-48. 

3 Op. cit., page 42. 



— 307 — 

not, for example, be overlooked that, in 1935, tuberculosis was still responsible 
for 32,903 deaths (England, Scotland and Wales), 6.1% of the total mortality, 
or that the mortality rate from all causes in children aged i to 4 years, favourable 
as is its trend, is distinctly higher than that of certain other countries, notably 
Norway, Sweden and the Netherlands. Moreover, the numerous milk feeding 
experiments which have been carried out demonstrate how physique in childhood 
might be improved. There is thus ample room for further progress, and we believe 
that the improvements in diet referred to will play an important part in attaining 
this end." 



Union of South Africa and Australia. 

14. In South Africa, a recent Government report ^ contained 
the following comments on the diets of European families in certain 
urban areas: 

" It is unlikely that many cases go short of calories. The proportions of protein, 
fat and carbohydrate are within what are generally considered to be normal 
limits. . . . The intake of minerals gives no cause for alarm, except in the case 
of calcium in the lower-income groups. . . . Values of the order of 0.5 gramme 
per day show a real poverty of this element that cannot be satisfactory, especially 
as the average family contains several children who have a special need of calcium. 
For pregnant and lactating women, this amount is grossly inadequate. A mono- 
tonous diet, such as that of poorer groups, is very liable to serious deficiencies: 
deficiencies of a mineral constituent, a vitamin or an amino-acid, or, more prob- 
ably, a subtle combination of several deficiencies, no one of which would be very 
serious by itself; deficiencies which produce a subnormal condition rather than a 
recognisable pathological state ; deficiencies which are not revealed by an analysis 
of the diet into its constituents or by any other theoretical consideration of the 
items in the diet. 

" The position regarding the consumption of milk is highly unsatisfactory. It 
is to be deplored that there should be such a falling-off of money spent on milk 
from the richer to the poorer classes. More than half the families in the poorer 
groups never see milk — families containing several children whoh ave as pecial need 
of milk. It is very unlikely that many of these families are escaping from serious 
nutrition deficiencies." 

15. An Advisory Council on Nutrition was established in 
Australia in February 1936 and presented its first report ^ in 
September of that year. On the general state of nutrition of the 



^ " Report on the Enquiry into the Expenditure of European Families in Certain 
Urban Areas, 1936." Union of South Africa, Office of Census and Statistics. 
Pretoria, 1937. 

2 League of Nations Mixed Committee on the Problem of Nutrition, document 59, 
September 4th, 1936. Reply to C.L.202.1935. 



- 3o8 — 

population, the Council reported that " no evidence is avail- 
able ... of any general or gross under-nourishment of the 
population. To this general statement, however, certain excep- 
tions must be made. It is known that in some of the capital cities 
rickets exists amongst the children. . . . Evidence of an in- 
definite nature was placed before your Council that ' pre-scorbutic ' 
conditions are to be found amongst the children of the remote 
interior districts of the continent, where vital food elements are 
not available. It is known that in certain localities, which are 
restricted in area and few in number, goitre occurs as an endemic 
disease... Some evidence of an inconclusive character was before 
your Council pointing to the possibility of some calcium deficiency 
in the diet of the people of the Brisbane area ; and some phosphorus 
(or calcium) deficiency in the diet of the residents of Western 
Queensland (and perhaps also of other interior districts of 
Australia) ". 

In regard to the consumption of certain individual articles o 
food, the Council reported: " It is undeniable that the people o 
Australia are not consuming as much milk as would be physio- 
logically beneficial. This applies with especial force in the case of 
infants, children, pregnant women and nursing mothers." Meat 
consumption was reported to be high. Attention was drawn to 
a disquieting feature — " a deeply-rooted prejudice in Australia 
against the eating of internal organs — brains, heart, liver, kidney 
and sweetbreads. These contain special food factors which render 
them specially valuable as foods ". A similar prejudice against 
all cheaper cuts of meat was reported and deplored. 

In regard to fruit and vegetables, the Council stated that " the 
present cost very gravely restricts their consumption as food over 
a considerable portion of the Commonwealth ". In the case of 
bread, the Council expressed its deep concern at the " low level of 
quality reached by much of the bread made in Australia ", and its 
opinion that " wheat flour is not now being so used that the 
maximum food value or even the maximum aesthetic value is being 
obtained from it ". The Council advised that " the use of lightly 
milled cereals and of potatoes should be increased. An extension 
in the use of the latter should be made at the expense of sugar as a 
source of carbohydrates ". The Council declared that the consump- 
tion both of fish and eggs could and should be much extended. 



— 309 — 

Some evidence regarding nutritional diseases in Melbourne may 
be derived from a report on an examination of 1,009 pre-school 
children in 1936. The Emerson height-weight standard was taken 
as an approximate guide to the state of nutrition. In 1934 and 
1935, 26.4 and 25 % respectively of all the children showed evidence 
of malnutrition in that they were 7 % or more below the Emerson 
standard. It was stated in the report on the examination: " Many 
of the children are definitely stunted and, although the weight is 
enough for their small height, they are obviously undersized. One 
is justified in believing that, with better diet and hygienic condi- 
tions, more light, air and good food, the average of these Australian 
children would be higher. 

" The lack of balance, in the diet, due perhaps to the practice 
of appeasing the hunger of growing children with excess of carbo- 
hydrate, is another disquieting feature. The pale, puffy, even 
slightly overweight child, with continual catarrh, colds and chronic 
bronchitis, came to be such a familiar type that it could be 
recognised as it came through the door. 

" The increasing evidence of malnutrition with age is very 
marked. At 2 years of age, 16% were under weight, at 3 years 
18%, at 4 years 23%, and at 5 years 43% were malnourished." 

The incidence of dental caries at different ages among the pre- 
school children examined was as follows: 

Table VI. 

Caries at Different Ages among Pre-school Children 
(Melbourne, Australia). 

Percentage of children 
Age with carious teeth 

2-3 years 14 

3-4 years 33 

4-5 years 55 

5-6 years 76 

" In regard to rickets, 3 % of the children presented definite cases, 
and another 15% showed such signs as knock-knees, bossy fore- 
heads, depressed or malformed chests, prominent abdomens. 

" Many children, by the pallor of their skins and mucous mem- 
branes, appeared to be anaemic. Of eighty children who were 



— 310 — 

regarded as definitely anaemic, thirty were also under weight and 
regarded as malnourished. Seven were over weight, but not there- 
fore well nourished, as in many of these cases one found a protein 
deficiency and carbohydrate excess in the diet." 

Central and Eastern Europe. 

i6. The examples of the preceding paragraphs, drawn as they 
are from countries where the general plane of living is high, leave 
no possible doubt that, even in the most advanced countries of 
Western civilisation, a serious problem of malnutrition exists. In 
countries with lower general income-levels, it is likely that the 
evil is even more widespread. In the agricultural regions of Central 
and Eastern Europe, where farming is largely on a subsistence 
basis, the peasant eats what he cultivates himself; and very often 
he cultivates mainly one or two cereals and/or potatoes and cabbage 
or beans and pays little or no attention to those additional cultures 
which would supplement his intake of minerals and vitamins. 
Frequently, the consumption of meat in peasant households is 
restricted to one pig per year, which is slaughtered at Christmas. 
Natural conditions sometimes set rigid limits to the crops which 
can be produced, but in some cases these conditions are favourable 
to production of a type which would relieve the monotony of the 
diet and supply essential nutrients at present lacking. The low 
level of agricultural technique (connected in part with the lack 
of capital) and, in some cases, the excessive parcellation of the 
land and high or increasing population density are important 
factors militating against better natrition. Another factor worthy 
of mention is the disproportion which frequently exists between 
the prices which the peasant receives for the products he sells and 
the price he must pay for his modest purchases of industrial goods. 

17. Very little exact information is available regarding the 
nutritional status of the population of Central and Eastern 
Europe, and conditions vary so much from one region to another 
that it would be extremely dangerous to generalise on the basis 
of fragmentary data. There is, however, enough information to 
make it clear that, paradoxical though it appears, a serious 
problem of malnutrition (in some cases, perhaps, even under- 
nutrition) exists among a section of the population of Central and 



— 311 — 

Eastern Europe engaged in food production. A few examples will 
be sufficient to establish this fact. Thus, in the so-called " passive " 
regions of Yugoslavia (which include 2^4 rnillion people), the land 
is too unfertile to feed the large number of people on it;^ the 
yield of wheat and maize is low, the breed of live-stock is poor 
and the relatively small quantities of fruit grown are generally 
sold to provide the cash required for essential industrial goods and 
taxes. The exact nutritional status of the inhabitants of these 
regions has not been analysed, but the results of recruiting are 
stated to indicate the inadequacy of nutrition; tuberculosis is 
widespread. 

i8. A detailed analysis was made of the diets of twenty-two 
peasant families living in Osoi, a village in Moldavia (Roumania), 
during the winter and spring of 1933/34 and 1934/35. These 
families represented different economic levels, but seventeen of the 
twenty- two contained members who suffered from pellagra in 1933, 
and, in three others, cases had been recorded during 1931/32.^ 

The following table gives the average daily consumption per 
consumption unit ^ of various foods during five different periods 
of the year. The periods are as follows: 

Period 

1. Pre-Christmas fast (November 3oth-Deceinber 24th, 1933). 

2. Post-Christmas time (December 25th, 1933-February i8th, 1934). 

3. Lent (February I9th-March 28th, 1934). 

4. Post-Easter time (April 8th-June 8th, 1934). 

5. St. Peter's fast (June 4th-June 21st, 1934). 

Diet varied considerably as between fasting and non-fasting 
periods. During the seven weeks' Lenten fast and the six weeks' 
pre-Christmas fast no animal food is allowed, and during Passion 
Week vegetable fats, such as olive oil, are also forbidden. Children 
under lo do not normally observe these fasts, and, in fact, usually 
consume more milk, butter and eggs during these periods, since 
there is more available for them. The diet during periods 4 and 5 
was supplemented by the addition of whole wheat {cf. greatly 
increased consumption of brown bread). 



1 See League of Nations: "The Problem of Nutrition", Vol. III. (Geneva, 
1936.) 

2 W. Aykroyd, I. Alexa and J. Nitzulescu " Study of the Alimentation of 
Peasants in the Pellagra Area of Moldavia (Roumania) ", Archives roumaines d. 
pathologic experimentale et de microbiologie. (Paris, December 1935.) 

3 See footnote, page 243, scale k. 



312 — 



Table VII. 

Principal Foods consumed at Five Different Periods by Twenty-two 
Families in Osoi (Moldavia, Roumania). 

(In grammes per International consumption unit " per day.) 

\Vhole yellow maize 

Refined wheat flour 

Bread (brown) 

Bread (white) 

Rice 

Milk (whole) 

Buttermilk and sour skimmed 

milk 

Cream and butter 

Cheese 

Eggs 

Meat (all kinds) 

Beans (dry) 

Beans (string) 

Potatoes and root vegetables . 
Green vegetables. Sauerkraut, 

pickles 

Onions 

Dried fruits 

Fresh fruits 

Lard and bacon 

Olive oil 

Sugar 

a See footnote, page 241, scale k. 

The nutritional content of these diets is shown in the following 
table : 

Table VIII. 

Analysis of Diets of Twenty-two Peasant Families in Osoi (Roumania). 



Period i 


Period 3 


Period 3 


Period 4 


Period 5 


762 


645 


773 


276 


350 


40 


79 


53-5 


60 


8.9 


43 


39 


25.2 


745 


760 


9 


7.8 


6.9 


4 


5 


16 


10 


5-5 


6.1 


6 


II 


16 


19.2 


179 


217 


51 


9-9 


7-5 


52.4 


63.2 


— 


1-3 


0-5 


51 


8.9 


0.7 


15 


I 


20.4 


30.8 


0-5 


7-9 


6.6 


40 


12.7 


341 


93-9 


134 


68.9 


57-2 


86 


25 


86.9 


19 


15 


■ — 


— 


— 


0.27 


16.6 


59 


21.3 


54-2 


139 


0.22 


78.5 


71 


112. 2 


33-5 


32.1 


12 


9.6 


173 


2.9 


0.02 


21 


3-7 


5-7 


0.14 


— 


0.8 


03 


• 0.1 


27.4 


220 


0.03 


15 


1-7 


14.8 


2.8 


10 


0.4 


8.4 


4.6 


3-6 


1.6 


3-4 


30 


9-7 


1-3 



Average daily intake of: 

Calories per International con- 
sumption unit 3,941 3.657 

Proteins per Hawley consump- 
tion unit "... grammes 86 83.6 

a Hawley scale for protein and mineral requirements: 

Child under 6 

Child 6-9 

Girl 10-12 

Girl 13-14 

Boy 10-14 

Girl 15-17 

Youth 15-17 

Woman 18-60 

Man 18-60 



Period i Period 2 Period 3 Period 4 



Period 5 



3,886 3,995 4,090 

85.65 102.4 105 



0.8 
i.o 
1.2 
1-3 
1-3 
1.2 
1.0 
0.8 
1.0 



;riod i 


Period 2 


Period 3 


Period 4 


Period 5 


45 


63.8 


49-5 


69 


58.1 


726 


613.6 


717.2 


698.2 


739 


0.28 


0.34 


0.28 


1.03 


1. 195 


2.24 


1-93 


2.18 


. 2.06 


2.27 


0.025 


0.0197 


0.024 


0.0193 


0.0215 


74.27 


68.8 


74-9 


25-36 


30.2 


67.91 


60.77 


67-45 


20.23 


24-95 


403 


20.18 


3.02 


19 


18 



— 3^3 — 

Table VIII (continued) 

Average daily intake of: 

Fats per International consump- 
tion unit .... grammes 

Carbohydrates . . . grammes 

Calcium per Hawley consump- 
tion unit .... grammes 

Phosphates .... grammes 

Iron grammes 

Percentage of calories from maize 

Percentage of proteins from maize 

Percentage of animal proteins 

From this table, it appears that the calorie content of the diets 
was adequate in all seasons; the protein intake was sufficient in 
quantity but inadequate in quality, particularly during fasting 
periods; fat intake was low and carbohydrate intake very high; 
calcium consumption was well below standard (0.68 grammes, 
according to Sherman), except during the period where home- 
produced milk and cheese were available and where supplementary 
wheat was administered; the phosphate and iron contents were 
adequate in all periods — the latter mainly owing to the consump- 
tion of beans. As regards vitamins, the main deficiency is in 
vitamin Bg. (The lack of vitamin D in the diet appears to be 
compensated by the outdoor life.) The diet of periods 1-3 is said 
to be " probably a typical pellagra-producing diet, resembling in 
its general composition the diets consumed throughout the pel- 
lagrous districts of Roumania and other pellagrous districts in 
Eastern and Northern Europe, Southern Russia and Egypt. The 
most striking feature is its high percentage of maize. In general, 
the habitual diet of the families studied is deficient in vitamin Bg 
and calcium and in protein of high biological value. Intake of 
protective foods — e.g., milk and green vegetables — is small ".^ 

A study 2 recently made of the consumption during one year of 
fifty families of the village of Dragus, in Transylvania (Roumania), 



^ op. cit., page 422. 

2 D. C. Georgesco, of the Central Institute of Statistics: " Considerations sur 
I'alimentation paysanne en Roumania " in " Melanges "; D. Gusti: Archives pour 
la Science et la Reforme Sociales (Bucharest, 1936). 



— 314 — 

estimated the average daily consumption per " consumption unit " 
at 4,344 calories, 121 grammes of protein, 82 grammes of fat and 
781 grammes of carbohydrate. These figures are not based upon 
direct observation, but are estimated on the basis of amounts of 
foods produced, fed to animals, purchased, etc. It was found upon 
analysis that 83% of the total calorie consumption was derived 
from foods of vegetable origin {43% from maize and 32% from 
wheat and rye) and only 17% from meat, milk, butter, eggs and 
other foods of animal origin. Of the proteins, 78 % were found to 
be of vegetable origin and 22 % of animal origin. The consumption 
of milk is stated to be relatively high in the village in comparison 
with other regions, but the author concludes that " it is beyond 
dispute that the nutrition of the peasant population studied is 
qualitatively inadequate from the point of view of protein content 
and quantitatively inadequate from the point of view of fat 
content ". A similar study carried out in the village of Cornova, 
in Bessarabia, showed that consumption of animal protein was only 
17% of the total (97 grammes per head per day). 

Pellagra is found in the parts of Roumania where maize is the 
chief article of diet. According to Aykroyd,^ some 5 to 6% of 
the population of the villages of Moldavia which he visited in 1933 
suffer from pellagra every spring. Figures supplied by the 
Roumanian public health authorities show the following mortality 
from pellagra during the years 1930-1933: 

Table IX. 

Death Rate from Pellagra in Roumania. 

Year 

1930 

1931 

1932 

1933 

In the opinion of Burnet and Aykroyd, " these figures certainly 
represent an understatement, for many deaths actually due to 
pellagra which first invalided the patient are ascribed to terminal 
causes ". 



Deaths 




Death rate 


from pellagra 


per 


100,000 inhabitants 


2,087 




II. 7 


2,075 




II. 4 


1,964 




10.7 


2,800 




15.0 



^ See Burnet and Aykroyd: op. cit. 



— 315 — 

ig. It is stated ^ regarding the nutritional position in Hungary 
that " the diet of the Hungarian agricultural worker is quantita- 
tively and qualitatively far below requirements for work ". The 
staple food is bread, flour dishes, dried beets and beans, potatoes, 
cabbage, bacon, very rarely beef or mutton and occasionally pork 
for those who can afford it. " There is hardly any consumption 
of milk, eggs, poultry, butter, green vegetables, fruit (except 
water-melons) and sugar". The diet as a whole is characterised 
as " rich in vegetable proteins and carbohydrates, but poor in 
animal proteins, in vitamins A, C and D and in minerals ". The only 
difference in the diet of the very poor and the better-off peasants 
is said to be the use of more fat and meat by the better-off. Rickets, 
dental caries and latent hypovitaminosis are stated to be prevalent ; 
and the excessive consumption of carbohydrates is said to lead 
frequently to gastro-enteritic disturbances. A study of the diet of 
day-labourers in Budapest made by the same author in 1934 
resulted in the conclusion that it was similar to that of the agri- 
cultural labourers and " equally inadequate ". 

20. Observations made in certain rural areas of Czechoslovakia 
have revealed striking deficiencies in the diet. Thus, in Sub-Car- 
pathian Ruthenia, maize is the " traditional and almost exclusive 
diet of the population ".^ A study made by the State Institute 
of Public Health of nutrition in certain agricultural regions of 
Slovakia found that, though milk was in common and abundant 
use, its quality " did not satisfy even minimal requirements " ; 
apart from milk, cereals were found to be the main constituent of 
the diet. Fruit is not eaten to any great extent, and the only 
vegetable of importance, apart from potatoes, is cabbage. Of the 
three districts examined in detail, it was found that in Drava the 
diet was " far from satisfactory from a qualitative point of view " ; 
in Liptov, the diet was " one-sided " ; and it was only in Turiec 
(where more meat, fruit and vegetables were eaten) that the diet 
was found to be adequate. 

21. In parts of Poland, particularly in the east, the food of 
the peasantry consists almost exclusively of rye and potatoes. The 



1 By Dr. L. Scheff-Dabis, Assistant Director of the Metropolitan Health 
Laboratory, Budapest. 

2 League of Nations: " The Problem of Nutrition ", Vol. Ill, page 30. 



— 3i6 — 

rural population density is extremely high and the results of 
recruiting are stated to show a high percentage of physically unfit. 
No comprehensive assessment of the nutritional status of the rural 
population is available. Certain details are, however, available 
regarding urban workers. An official investigation ^ of the bud- 
getary accounts of 192 families of industrial workers made in 1927 
showed a total calorie intake of 2,856 calories per consumption 
unit per day, with the intake of the lowest income group less than 
2,400 calories. Protein intake was 65.6 grammes, of which 
25.4 grammes of animal origin (13 grammes in the case of the 
lowest income group); fat intake, 53.7 grammes; and carbohydrate 
intake, 507.9 grammes. 

22. The conclusion which must be drawn from the evidence of 
the preceding paragraphs (fragmentary and incomplete though that 
evidence is) is distressingly clear. There can be no possible doubt 
that the problem of malnutrition is a real one and that it calls 
urgently for solution. In every country for which detailed informa- 
tion is available, it has been found that an appreciable proportion 
of the population is, for one reason or another, not getting enough 
of the foods which the modern science of nutrition considers 
necessary for health and efficiency. In some cases, the deficiencies 
in the diet have been shown to result in manifest disease. Even 
where this does not occur, there is reason to believe that millions 
of people in all parts of the world are not enjoying the degree of 
health and vigour which could be theirs with proper nourishment. 
To assess the cost of malnutrition — ^whether in human terms, 
through disease and sub-optimal health, or in economic terms, 
through loss of efficiency and the money spent in attempting to 
repair the damage done by faulty nutrition — would be an impos- 
sible task. The cost is incalculable; and there can be no doubt 
that, beside it, the cost of the measures which can be taken to 
improve nutritional standards — through education, through the 
lowering of food prices, through direct social provision or through 
other means — would appear insignificantly small. 



^ Statistique de la Pologne: " Budgets des families ouvriferes, 1927 ". (Warsaw, 
1930-) 



— ?>'^7 — 
Asia. * 

23. The problem of nutrition in Asia falls outside the scope of 
this study, but it may be of interest to add here a few extracts 
from the report ^ of the Preparatory Committee of the Inter- 
governmental Conference of Far-Eastern Countries on Rural Hy- 
giene, which will meet, under the auspices of the Health Organisation 
of the League of Nations, in Java in August 1937. 

" Investigations into the state of health of the peoples of the East, no matter 
what their starting-point, lead back invariably to the question of nutrition. 

" The prevailing opinion is that the state of nutrition of the populations of 
rural districts is not wholly satisfactory in any of the Asiatic countries. It is 
thought that, of the 1,150,000,000 inhabitants of that continent, not less than 75% 
have a diet below the standards fixed by European science. From various publi- 
cations, and from the information that the Committee collected during its tour, 
it appears that a large part of the population is living on the border-line of the 
minimum requirements, while millions are even below that level. 

" These statements should, however, be accepted with some caution, because 
an examination of the studies so far made in Asia shows that few accurate statistics 
are available. ... 

" Everything produced is always quickly consumed, and, so far from there 
being a limitation of crops, the dominant question everywhere is how to increase 
them. An exception may be made as regards a few articles intended for the world 
market, such as sugar and copra. 

" At present, the suggestions made (with a view to improving nutrition) are too 
often based merely upon individual enquiries on the spot or observations from 
Europe, and consequently they frequently prove to be quite wrong or economically 
impracticable. In Europe and America, for instance, one suggested means of 
improvement is to increase the consumption of milk, eggs, butter, meat, vegetables 
and fruit; but, in most Asiatic countries, any considerable developments in regard 
to the first three items are out of the question. In Asia, therefore, entirely different 
solutions will have to be sought. 

" Some efforts in this direction have already been made. The soya bean and the 
foods prepared from it, including soya milk, have been one of the most important 
subjects of study in recent years. But a local acquaintance with the food problems 
of the Far East justifies the assumption that big improvements in the composition 
of the diet can be brought about by other means. . . . 

" Carbohydrates form, throughout Asia, the chief ingredient in the daily fare. 
So far as they are digestible, they serve exclusively as sources of energy. . . . 
Although an excess of carbohydrate absorption may not be a bad thing in itself, 
the quantity of vitamins and mineral substances required by the organism in 
such circumstances is also apt to be greater. This is important for the study 
of the beriberi question. 



^ League of Nations, Health Organisation: " Intergovernmental Conference of 
Far-Eastern Countries on Rural Hygiene : Report by the Preparatory Committee " 
(document C.H.1234 — Ser. L.o.N. P. 1937. III. 3). Geneva, 1937. 



— 3i8 — 

• 

" In the case of most Asiatic peoples, the daily protein intake is very small. 
Of those proteins, from 80% to 95% are vegetable. It is only in the diet of the 
relatively prosperous classes that animal proteins predominate . . . the per- 
centage of protein in the food of inhabitants of the tropics ought not to be too 
large. 

" Another question is whether a better grouping of proteins can be obtained 
by selection of different soils or of particular manures. A great deal can be done 
for these countries by proper collaboration between the different experts. . . . 

" The quantity of fats consumed by the various peoples of the Far East is much 
smaller than in Europe, and, further, the fat is mainly of vegetable origin. 

" In some countries, the proportion of vegetable fat amounts to 95%. A more 
detailed study of conditions as regards vegetable and animal fats is desirable if 
the question of nutrition in Asia is to be fully understood. 

" Beri-beri, the first known form of vitamin deficiency, is localised mainly in 
Asia. Now that we know how to prevent it, adequate measures have been taken 
in most countries. In the majority of countries, it occurs only sporadically. 
Indeed, beri-beri has never been widespread among rural populations; it is connected 
rather with towns, armies, shipping, prisons, schools and large undertakings — in 
short, places where catering is collective. 

" According to the data we have collected, pellagra does not play an important 
part in any of the Asiatic countries. 

" For the sunny countries of Asia, rickets does not constitute a problem of any 
importance, at all events where there are no particular habits of life or circumstances 
which preclude exposure to the sun. 

" Wherever a detailed study of the teeth has been made in the countries of 
Eastern Asia, particularly among children and young persons, the findings have 
been unsatisfactory. Caries is commoner than was once thought. 

" The real cause lies in the diet. 

" In recent years, it has become more and more evident that various forms of 
anaemia may be due to an unbalanced or insufficient diet. . . . These forms 
of anaemia are found particularly among women, and more especially pregnant 
women. ... If the question of the influence of diet on the composition of the 
blood has already proved of great importance for European and American countries, 
how much greater must its importance be in Asia, where diseases such as malaria, 
ankylostomiasis, kala-azar and others constitute a far-reaching menace to that 
most important element of life, the blood ? These diseases have a powerful ally 
in under-nourishment, which undermines the power of resistance of whole groups 
of the population. 

" Infant mortality is exceptionally high in all Asiatic countries. In several 
of them, it accounts for more than half the total mortality. It is true that the 
statistics are still far from reliable, except for Japan, but that the position is 
unfortunately as stated is beyond question. If the cause is sought, the direct or 
indirect significance of the factor of nutrition immediately comes into 
prominence. 

" Accordingly, the question of milk and foodstuffs to replace milk is of the 
greatest importance in Asia. The study of soya milk is being conducted on these 
lines; at the same time, attention has been unduly fixed on this, and the search 



— 319 — 

for other resources which might be discovered through collaboration with 
agricultural and veterinary services has been correspondingly neglected. Closer 
attention should be given to improved milk powders and varieties of sour milk. 
This would be a highly desirable task, particularly for health centres. A great 
deal can be done with relatively simple and inexpensive means. In another respect, 
infants have certain advantages in Asia: in sunny countries, they can be exposed 
daily to ultra-violet rays, so that there is very little likelihood of their being 
infected with bovine tuberculosis ; and countries with abundant fruit and vegetables 
throughout the year provide an inexpensive supplementary diet of bananas, 
citrus fruit juice, etc. 

" In several countries, however, diseases of the respiratory organs in children 
and young persons are common, and it seems hardly likely that diet is not to 
some extent accountable. There is clear evidence to show that, when food is 
scarce or unobtainable, the number of fatal cases of lung disease greatly increases. 
More exact data are urgently required on this point. . . . 

" Recently, evidence has been obtained which seems to show that the (vitamin) B 
complex also has considerable influence, especially on certain skin diseases. This 
is important, because it is precisely in the East that the B complex requires constant 
control in the diet. 

" In Asia, sick children are in great danger of incurring vitamin- A deficiency. 
In Europe, a sick child, particularly if suffering from intestinal troubles, is placed 
on a diet consisting largely of milk. In Asia, the place of milk is often taken 
by gruel; vegetables are withheld, so that the child's food is almost devoid of 
vitamin A. . . . 

" Lastly, investigations have been made into the part played by diet in various 
other diseases, such as tuberculosis, leprosy and the innumerable leg ulcers that 
are found in Oriental countries. 

" As regards the first, a great deal of work has been done in Europe, and it has 
been proved that under-nourishment plays a prominent part in the development 
of tuberculosis. As regards the connection between nutrition and leprosy, various 
investigations have been made in recent years, and some definite results seem 
to have been arrived at; but these investigations are still only in their initial 
stage. 

" As for the large leg ulcers, the general view at present is that diet plays a 
predominant part. Their occurrence is said to be attributable not so much to 
the absence of a particular vitamin as to general under-nourishment. 

" In agricultural areas in Europe, it is found that 50 or 60% of the earnings of 
the working-class is spent on food. In Asia, the percentage is much higher. 
The subject has been very little studied, but the available data show that there 
are large areas where this proportion is 90% or even higher. Now, the possibility 
of improving the diet in quantity and in quality depends upon the state of the 
family finances. If 80 or 90% of the budget has to be spent on the most essential 
food — and such is undoubtedly the case in many parts of Asia — all efforts must be 
directed to reducing prices and to teaching the people wisdom in the choice and 
preparation of their food. 

" In such cases, any recommendation to improve the diet — for example, by 
increasing the consumption of milk and eggs — is quite useless; the proper course 



— 320 — 

is to find which of the foodstuffs approximate nearest to the food value of these 
articles. Progress along these Unes has already been made in some countries by 
introducing the use of the soya bean and its derivatives, and in other countries 
by stimulating the consumption of fish and fish pastes. . . . 

" A well-fed and healthy population is vital to every country for its development 
and future. But, in all Asiatic countries, only relatively trifling sums are 
allocated to the detailed study of national nutrition or to attempts to 
improve it. . . . 

" The growth of the population and the ensuing increased importance of adequate 
nutrition will certainly help to wean most Governments from this shortsighted 
policy. The assertion often made by the authorities that very primitive peoples show 
an unfailing intuition in regard to their food supply in time of need is obviously 
exaggerated, and, indeed, is contradicted by practical experience. A small measure 
of intuition there certainly is, but it can easily be overrated. . . . 

" The aim must be so to organise the work as to obtain the most efficient 
collaboration of all who are able and willing to take part in it. We have in mind 
co-operation of chemists, both analytical and synthetic, physiologists, physiological 
chemists, speciaUsts in internal medicine, pediatricians, gynaecologists — in short, 
representatives of almost all branches of medicine and hygiene; and, in addition, 
agriculturists expert in the growing of fruit and vegetables, veterinary surgeons 
and, lastly, statisticians and economists. 

" It is certain that, in Asia, international collaboration in this field is urgently 
needed." 

Colonial Areas. 

24. The information at present available regarding the diet of 
native populations of colonial areas is not sufficient to form the 
basis of a comprehensive picture. In April 1936, the British 
Colonial Secretary addressed a circular letter on the subject of 
nutrition to the Governments of His Majesty's colonial possessions, 
directing their attention to the importance of the problem and 
requesting that a comprehensive survey of the position be made in 
each dependency. When these surveys have been made, much 
more information will no doubt be available regarding nutrition in 
colonial areas. For the present, however, it is necessary to rely 
on the observations of independent investigators.^ 

25. Conditions, of course, differ widely in different colonial 
areas, but a recent careful analysis of the available material led 
to the conclusion that colonial populations in general are under- 



1 Certain observations have been collected by Burnet and Aykroyd in " Nu- 
trition and PubUc Health " {Quarterly Bulletin of the Health Organisation of the 
League of Nations, June 1935) ; the present section is based on that document. 



— 321 — 

nourished.^ In certain parts of Africa, the native is now always 
assured of a regular and constant food supply; after a good crop, 
he may enjoy a liberal diet for a time and, after a poor crop, he 
may fast. It is stated that the diets of native populations in 
African, Asiatic and Oceanic colonies tend, in spite of local differ- 
ences, to show the same defects: " they are often insufficient in 
quantity and unsatisfactory as regards quality, in that they contain 
inadequate amounts of animal protein, mineral salts and vitamins. 
As a result, resistance to infection is low and infant mortality high. 
It is scarcely fanciful to ascribe the low birth rate observable in 
certain parts of Africa and Asia to dietary deficiency ". 

26. The protein intake of native populations in the tropics and 
the East is usually low. " All protein and fatty foods " in the 
mandated territory of New Guinea " are considered luxuries," ^ 
and " the staple diet is mainly carbohydrate ". Formerly, 
according to information supplied to the Mixed Committee by the 
Australian Government in 1936, " cannibalism was a definite ad- 
junct to the protein diet, and this is not to be wondered at, consider- 
ing the extreme scarcity of almost all forms of game in the territory" 
(of New Guinea) . In the territory of Papua, the protein supply of the 
rural villages is occasionally supplemented with kangaroo-meat or 
pig, " but the amount cannot be very great ". 

Pastoral tribes are better off in this respect than those engaged 
in tillage. Thus, the Masai in British East Africa, who live mainly 
on meat, milk and blood, have a protein intake of 100-200 grammes 
daily. The bulk of the diet of most native African populations is, 
however, composed of cereals. Thus, in Morocco, it has been 
observed that increased prosperity results in the substitution of 
wheat for barley, meat consumption remaining low. In South 
Africa, maize forms a large part of the native diet and there is an 
" insufficiency of meat, milk, grain and vegetables ". There is a 
prejudice in favour of white maize, which is deficient in vitamin A; 
" mealie food " also lacks vitamin C and, " as a result, native 
labourers often arrive in mines in a state of latent scurvy, which is 
cured (in spite of heavy work output) by the liberal diet supplied 
in the mines ". The diet of the African native is generally deficient 



^ op. cit., page 126. 

2 League of Nations: "The Problem of Nutrition", Vol. Ill, page 20. 

21 



— 322 — 

in animal fat ; the fats most commonly consumed in many districts 
are palm oil and peanut oil. 

27. In considering the incidence of deficiency diseases in native 
populations, account must be taken, not only of diet, but also of 
the profound changes in the character of the life and work of many 
native peoples during the past fifty years. Work on roads and 
railways and porterage work have " disturbed the easy traditional 
routines of the native and often subjected him to unaccustomed 
physical strain ". According to one authority, the effects of mal- 
nutrition became noticeable in the natives of Morocco only when 
they were engaged in regular work on European lines. 

28. " Disease and ill-health due to vitamin deficiency are common 
throughout the tropics and the Far East. Xerophthalmia exists in 
Uganda and Kenya. Night-blindness and keratomalacia, due to 
vitamin-A deficiency, have been observed in many parts of Asia and 
Africa. Other manifestations of vitamin-A deficiency, affecting the 
mouth and the skin, have been noted in Ceylon and West Africa and 
probably exist in many other regions. Adult and infantile beri- 
beri, closely related to vitamin-Bj deficiency, are found wherever 
milled rice is used as staple cereal ; many observers have commented 
on the waste and danger involved in the decortication of rice 
consumed by native populations. Scurvy has been observed 
among native adults in South and East Africa. Deficiency of 
vitamin E may play a part in reducing fertility in many tropical 
and Eastern countries. Apart from the recognised food-deficiency 
diseases, there can be little doubt that a vast amount of ill-health 
in the tropics and the East is due to the consumption of a diet 
deficient in vitamins and other food factors." ^ 



^ Burnet and Aykroyd: op. cit., page 129. 



323 



LIST OF TABLES AND DIAGRAMS. 



Part II. 

Nutrition and Health. 



Table : 

Nutritive Value of Foods 



Page 
64 



Tables : 



II. 

III. 
IV. 

V. 
VI. 

VII. 

VIII. 

IX. 

X. 

XI. 

XII. 

XIII. 

XIV. 

XV. 

XVI. 

XVII. 

XVIII. 

XIX. 

XX. 

XXI. 

XXII. 
XXIII. 
XXIV. 



Part III. 

Chapter i. — Recent Trends in Food Habits. 

" World " per Caput Utilisation of Principal Bread Cereals 

1909-1914 and 1923-1933 loi 

Wheat and Other Cereals in Diet of Certain Countries before 

the War 103 

Per Caput Wheat Consumption 103 

Per Caput Use of Wheat Flour and Rye Flour in Germany ... 106 

Per Caput Sugar Consumption in Various Countries 109 

Estimated annual per Caput Consumption of Certain Meats, 

1909-1913 and 1925 no 

Estimated Annual per Caput Consumption of Meat 1925-1929 

and 1930-1934 Ill 

Estimated Annual per Caput Consumption of Eggs 115 

World Exports of Butter 118 

Pre- and Post-War Annual per Caput Consumption of Butter . . 119 

Estimated per Caput Consumption of Butter since 1925 .... 120 

Estimated per Caput Consumption of Cheese 121 

Estimated per Caput Consumption of Margarine 1 23 

Car-lot Shipments of Vegetables in the United States .... 125 

World Trade in Citrus Fruits and Bananas 127 

Per Caput Consumption of Citrus Fruits and Bananas in the 

United States 128 

Imports of Citrus Fruits and Bananas into United Kingdom . . 128 

Imports of Citrus Fruits and Bananas into Germany 128 

Imports of Citrus Fruits and Bananas into France 129 

Estimated per Caput Consumption of Citrus Fruits and Bananas 130 
Evolution of Food Consumption of Families of Manual Workers 

in Belgium 134 

Evolution of Food Consumption of Manual Workers in Sweden 135 

Evolution of Food Consumption of Manual Workers in Norway 136 

Evolution of Food Consumption of Manual Workers in Germany 371 



— 324 — 

Chapter i. — Recent Trends in Food Habits (continued). 

Tables (continued). Page 
XXV. Evolution of Food Consumption of Agricultural Workers in 

Sweden 138 

XXVI. Evolution of Food Consumption in an English Boarding-School 139 

XXVII. Mineral Composition by Weight of Wheat and Wheat Products 147 

XXVIII. Retail Prices of Various Cuts of Meat 148 

XXIX. Per Caput Consumption of Distilled Spirits 150 

Diagram : 

I. Per Caput Food Use of Wheat in Various Countries 104 



Tables : 



I. 

II. 

III. 

IV. 

V. 

VI. 

VII. 



Chapter 2. — Agriculture and Nutrition. 



Evolution of Danish Agriculture 157 

Estimated Milk Production per Annum 158 

Proportion of Dairy Cows in Herds 159 

Number of Hens i59 

Production of Eggs 160 

Total and Mechanical Horse-power in the United States .... 174 

Indices of Prices received by Farmers in the United States ... 181 



Chapter 3. — Food Prices and Consumption. 

Tables : 

I. Prices and Sales in Co-operative Stores (Austria) 191 

II. Calculations of Elasticity of Demand 192 

III. Prices and Sales of Full and Skimmed Milk (Graz, Austria) . . 197 

Diagrams : 

I. Prices and Consumption of Butter, Eggs and Milk 187 

II. Prices and Consumption of Oranges and Bananas in Sweden . . 189 
III. Prices and Consumption: Workers' Families in Vienna (1927- 

1934) 190 

IV. Relation between Retail Prices and Total Supplies of Butter and 
Cheese when Spending Power is maintained as in 1933 (United 

Kingdom, 1923-1933) i95 

V. Prices and Consumption of Various Meats 198 

VI. Prices and Consumption of Empire and Foreign Butter in the 

United Kingdom 199 

VII. Seasonal Movement of Prices and Consumption: Butter and 

Eggs 201 



— 325 — 



Chapter 4. 



Factors influencing Food Prices. 



Tables : 

I. 

II. 

III. 

IV. 

V. 
VI. 

VII. 

VIII. 

IX. 

X. 

XI. 

XII. 

XIII. 

XIV. 

XV. 



Page 

Retail Prices of Foods, in Swiss Francs 212 

World Production of, and Trade in. Foodstuffs 213 

World Production of Primary Foodstuffs, by Continents .... 214 
Index of Cost of Food in Terms of " Other Commodities " at 

Wholesale 215 

World Trade in Wheat and Flour, in Thousands of Metric Tons 216 
Wholesale Price of Wheat in Cents (Gold Parity) per Bushel of 

60 lb. (27.216 kg.) 217 

World Trade in Maize, in Thousands of Metric Tons 218 

World Trade in Butter, in Thousands of Metric Tons 219 

Retail Price of Butter, October 1936 220 

Wholesale Price of Butter in Certain Home Markets and in 

London, March 1935 221 

Area harvested to Wheat, in Millions of Hectares 223 

Value of Sales per Person engaged in Distribution and Production 231 

Farm and Retail Value of Typical Food Selection in U.S.A. . . 232 

Milk Margins in Various Countries 234 

Values and Margins of all Meats in the United States 235 



Chapter 5. — The Relation of Income to Nutrition. 
Tables : 

I. Percentage Values of Leading Food Groups produced on the 

Farm and purchased, 1934 240 

II. Food Expenditure and Total Income 241 

III. The Effects of Rent Restriction on Food Expenditure (Czecho- 
slovakia) 244 

IV. Income available for Consumption by Inhabitants of Old and 

New Houses (Germany) 244 

V. The Relation of Income to Calories, Protein and Fat Consump- 
tion 247 

VI. Cost of 100 Calories obtained from Various Foods 248 

VII. Average Distribution of Expenditures among, and Percentage 
of Nutritive Values secured from. Specified Groups of Food 

(United States) 250 

VIII. Relation of Income to Price of Calories 251 

IX. Nutritional Analysis of Diets of German and Polish Workers . . 251 
X. Relation of Income to Intake of Calories and Various Nutrients 

(United States) 253 

XL Constituents of Food consumed per Man-unit per Day (Union 

of South Africa) 254 

XII. Four Diets at Varying Levels of Cost and Nutritive Content 

(United States) 255 



326 



Chapter 5. — The Relation of Income to Nutrition (continued). 

Tables (continued). Page 

XIII. Percentage of Calories from Various Sources in the Four Standard 
Diets 256 

XIV. Relation of Economic Status to Demand for Particular Foods . 258 
XV. Relation of Income to Quality of Fat Consumption among 

German Workers (1927-28) 259 

XVI. Relation of Family Size to Consumption per Consumption Unit 
of Various Foods among Czechoslovak Workers (Seventy-nine 

Families) 261 

XVII. Relation of Family Size to Milk Consumption (Durham, England) 262 
XVIII. Relation of Family Size to Milk Consumption (United States: 

Fifty-nine Cities) 263 

XIX. Relation of Family Size to Milk Consumption (Minneapolis, 

U.S.A.) 263 

XX. Relation of Family Type to Consumption of Calories and Various 

Nutrients (Sweden) 264 

XXI. Distribution of Family Income and Food Expenditure per Man 

Value (Stockton-on-Tees, England) 265 

XXII. Percentage of Families with Annual Food Expenditure Large 
enough to buy the Bureau of Home Economics Adequate Diet 
at Minimum Cost 267 

XXIII. Indices of Workers' Purchasing Power (Great Britain) .... 270 

XXIV. Annual Consumption per Consumption Unit of Employed and 
Unemployed Workers' Families in Vienna (1934) 271 

XXV. Food Consumption per Consumption Unit of Thirteen Czecho- 
slovak Families during Periods of Employment and Unemploy- 
ment 272 

XXVI. Effect of Duration of Unemployment on Nutrition (Czecho- 
slovakia) 272 

XXVII. Nutrition of Employed and Unemployed in the Netherlands: 

Expenditure per Consumption Unit per Week 274 

XXVIII. Percentage of Families (White and Negro) with Inadequate 

Incomesin Various Towns (United States) 276 

XXIX. Distribution of Population according to Weekly Income per Head 

(United Kingdom) 277 

XXX. Cost of Standard Diets for Persons of Different Ages (United 

Kingdom) 277 

Diagrams : 

I. Amounts spent on Food by Different Occupational and Income 

Groups 245 

II. Quantities of Foods consumed in Different Income Groups . . . 257 
III. Food Costs and Weekly Earnings of Industrial Workers (1928- 

1936) 269 



327 — 



Chapter 6. — The Relation of Education to Nutrition. 

Tables: Page 

I. Quality of Diets at Different Levels of Food Expenditure in the 

United States . 281 

II. Distribution of Food Records, by Nutritive Content per Nutri- 
tion Unit per Day, Winter Diets, 1934/35, in North Atlantic Re- 
gion (Families of Employed Wage-earners and Clerical Workers) 284 

III. Vitamin Intake in Different Income Groups (Sweden) .... 286 

IV. Comparison of Actual and Recommended Diets at Equal Cost 
(Czechoslovakia) 288 

V. Estimated Annual per Caput Consumption of Various Foods in 

Dififerent Countries (Average 1 930- 1 934) 289 

Diagram : 

I. How a Cent's Worth of Different Foods compare in Essential 

Nutrients (United States, July 1936) 293 



Chapter 7. — Evidence of Malnutrition in Certain Countries. 

Tables : 

I. Distribution of Families according to Annual Food Expenditure 

per Head (United States) 298 

II. Distribution of 897 Dietary Records according to Grade of Diet 
by Level of Expense for Food, Region and Colour of Family 

(United States) 299 

III. Distribution of Farm Family Diets according to Grade of Diet, 

by Value of Food (United States) 301 

IV. Percentage of Dietaries below Standard in respect to the Speci- 
fied Nutrients (Sweden) 303 

V. Height and Weight of School-children at State and Private 

Schools (Norway) 304 

VI. Caries at Different Ages among Pre-school Children (Melbourne, 

Australia) 309 

VII. Principal Foods consumed at Five Different Periods by Twenty- 
two Families in Osoi (Moldavia, Roumania) 312 

VIII. Analysis of Diets of Twenty-two Peasant Families in Osoi 

(Roumania) 312 

IX. Death Rate from Pellagra in Roumania 314 



VOLUME III. 
Nutrition in Various Countries. 

(Ser. L.O.N. P. 1936.ILB.5). 
271 pages. 5/6 $1.40 

This volume contains a survey of steps recently taken by Governments, 
public authorities and national organisations in some twenty countries 
to improve the nutrition of different classes of the population. 

It shows the variations in the consumption of foodstuffs during 
recent years, both in advanced, and in less prosperous, communities. 



VOLUME IV. 

Statistics of Food Production, 
Consumption and Prices, 

(Ser. L.O.N. P. 1936.II.B.6). 
no pages. 3/- $0.75 

A preliminary investigation undertaken by the International Insti- 
tute of Agriculture at Rome into current statistical data concerning 
the production, consiunption and prices of protective and other foods 
(milk and milk products, meat, eggs and poultry, fruit and vegetables, 
cereals and sugar). It discusses the steps taken by some of the principal 
agricultural States to give financial assistance to agriculture, and gives 
an analytical review of the situation in various countries for which data 
are available. In addition, it contains a series of statistical tables 
relating to production and consumption, and to wholesale and retail 
prices. 

Despite its provisional character, this volume represents the first 
real effort to assemble and classify the somewhat fragmentary statistical 
information collected up to the present time on the vital question of 
protective foods. It reveals certain gaps in these statistics, and em- 
phasises the necessity of amplifying them on an international basis. 



Further see: 

Qtcarterly Bulletin of the Health Organisation, Vol. IV, No. 2, June 1935, 
containing an article by Et. Burnet and W. R. Aykroyd, entitled 
Nutrition and Public Health. 

Quarterly Bulletin of the Health Organisation, Vol. V, No. 3, September 
1936, which deals only with the problem of nutrition. 

Price of any of these numbers ; 2/6 $0.65 



AUTHORISED fAGENTS FOR THE PUBLICATIONS 

OF THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS 



calle 



• n, A. 

Street, 



Uni- 
20, 



ARGENTINE — Libreria " El Ateneo 

Florida 371, Buenos Aires. 
AUSTRALIA (Commonwealth of) — 

Goddard. Ltd., 255a, George 

Sydney. 
AUSTRIA — Manz'sche Verlags- uiid 

versitatsbuchhandlung, Kohlmarkt 

Vienna I. 
BELGIUM — Agence Dechenne, Messageries 

de la Presse, S.A., 16-22, rue du Persil, 

Brussels. 
BOLIVIA — Arn6 Hermanos, Galle Illimanf, 

Nos. 10-20, La Paz. 
BRAZIL — " Livrarfa Allema ", Frederico 

Will, rua.da Alfandega, 69, Rio de Janeiro. 
BULGARIA — Librairie FraiiQaise et Etran- 

g6re, .T. Garasso & Cie., Bd. " Tsar Osvobo- 

ditel ", No. 8, Sofia. 
CANADA — League of Nations Society in 

Canada, 124, Wellington Street, Ottawa. 
CHILE — Carlos Niemeyer, Libreria Uni- 
versal, Cas. 293, Valparaiso. 
CHINA ■ — Commercial Press Ltd., Sales 

Office, 211, Honan Road, Shanghai. 
COLOMBIA — Liberia Voluntad S.A., calle 

Real, Nos. 297-301, BogotA. 
CUBA — La Casa Belga, Ren6 de Smedt, 

O'Reilly, 59, Havana. 
CZECHOSLOVAKIA — Librairie F. Topic, 1 1 , 

Narodni, Prague. 
DANZIG (Free City of) — Georg Stilke, 

Buchhandlung, Langgasse 27, Danzig. 
DENMARK — Levin & Munksgaard, Pub- 
lishers, N0rregade, 6, Copenhagen. 
ECUADOR — Victor Janer, Guayaquil. 
EGYPT — G.M.'s Book Shop, 116, Sharia 

Emad El Din (0pp. Davles Bryan), Cairo. 
ESTONIA — Akadeemiline Kooperativ, t}li- 

kooli Tan. 15, Tartus. 
FINLAND — Akateeminen Kirjakauppa, 

Keskuskatu 2, Helsinki. 
FRANCE — Editions A. Pedone, 13, rue 

Soumot, Paris (V«). 
GERMANY — Carl Heymanns Verlag, Mauer- 

strasse 44, Berlin, W'.8. 
GREAT BRITAIN. NORTHERN IRELAND 

AND THE CROWN COLONIES — George 

Allen & Unwin, Ltd., 40, Museum Street, 

London W.C.I. 
GREECE — " Eleftheroudakis ", Librairie 

internatlonale, Place de la Constitution, 

Athens. 
GUATEMALA — Goubaud & Cia., Ltda., 

Sucesor, Guatemala. 
HAITI — Lihrairie-Papeterie Mme. D. Viard, 

angle des rues du Centre et des Casernes, 

Port-au-Prince. 

HUNGARY — Librairie Grill, Dorottya 

utca 2, Budapest. 
ICELAND — Peter Halldorsson, Reykjavik. 
INDIA — The Book Company, Ltd., College 

Square, 4/4 A, Calcutta. 
League of Nations Indian Bureau "Zainab 

Manzil",Churchgate Reclamation, Bombay. 

IRISH FREE STATE — Eason & Son, Ltd., 

79-82, Middle Abbey Street, Dublin. 
ITALY — S. A. Editrice G. C. Sansoni. Vlale 



JAPAN — League of Nations Tokio Office, 

Marunouchi-C.-13, Tokio. 

Maruzen Co., Ltd. (Maruzen-Kabushiki- 

Kaisha), 6. Nihonbashi Tori-Nichome, 

Tokio. 

Mitsukcshi Limited, Surugacho, Nihon- 
bashi, TOKIO. 
LATVIA — Latvijas Telegrafa Agentura 

" Leta ", Kr. Barona iela, 4, Riga. 
LITHUANIA — Kooperacijos Bendrov6 

•• .Spaudos Fondas ", Laisvte A16ja, 62, 

Kaunas. ^ 
LUXEMBURG (Grand-Duohy of) — Librairie 

J. Schummer, Place Guillaume, 5, Luxem- 
burg. 
MEXICO — Central de Publicaciones S.A. 

(Antes Agenda Misrachi), Ediflcio " La 

Nacional ", Avenida .Tuarez 4, Mexico, D.F. 
NETHERLANDS — Martinus Nijhoff, Boek- 

handelaar-Uitgever, Lange Voorhour, 9, 

The Hague. 
NETHERLANDS INDIES — Algemeene 

Boekhandel G. Kolff & Co., Batavia- 

W'eltevreden. 
NEW ZEALAND — Messrs. Whitcombe & 

Tombs, Ltd., Booksellers, Chbistchurch. 
NORWAY — Dial Norli, Universitetsgaten, 

24, Oslo. 
PALESTINE — Leo Blumstein, Book and 

Art Shop, 48, Nahlath Benjamin Street, 

P.O.B. 91, Tel-aviv. 
The Palestine Educational Co., Messrs. 

B. Y. & W. A. Said, Jaffa Road 98 & 100, 

P.O.B. 84, Jerusalem. 
PANAMA ~ Isidro A. Beluche, Apartado 755, 

Avenida Norte No. 49, Panama. 
PARAGUAY — Libreria Internacional San- 
tiago Puigbonet, Casilla de Correo, 581, 

Asuncion. 
POLAND — Gebethner & Wolff, ulica Zgoda 

12. Warsaw. 
PORTUGAL — J. Rodrigues & Cia., Rua 

Aurea 186-188, Lisbon. 
ROUMANIA — " Cartea Romaneasca ", 3-5, 

Boul. Regele Carol I, Bucharest, I. 
SOUTH AFRICA (Union of) — Maskew 

Miller, Ltd., 29, Adderley Street, Cape 

Town. 
SPAIN — Libreria Bosch, Ronda Unlversidad, 

11, Barcelona. 
Libreria Internacional de Rome, Alcala, 5, 

Madrid. 
SWEDEN — C. E. Fritze, Hofbokhandel, 

Fredsgatan, 2, Stockholm. 
SWITZERLAND — Librairie Payot & Cie., 

Geneva, Lausanne, Vevey, Montreux, 

Neuch.vtei,, Berne, Basle. 
Hans Raunhardt, Buchhandlung, Kirch- 

ga.sse 17, Zurich, I. 
TURKEY — Librairie Hachette, Succursale 

de Turquie, 469, Av. de I'lndfipendance, 

Boite postale 2219, Istanbul. 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA — Columbia 

University Press, International Documents 

Service, 2960, Broadway, New York N.Y. 
VENEZUELA — Libreria Alejandro d'Em- 

paire, Traposos a Col6n 36, Apartado 

postal 274. Caracas. 
YUGOSLAVIA (Kingdom of) — Librairie Geca 

Kon S.A., 12, rue Knez Mihailova, Bel- 

GRAtiE. 

Librairie de I'Universit^et del'Acad^mie 
YouKoslave, St. Kugli, Ilica, 30, Zagreb. 

Knjigarna " Schwentner ", Presernova 
ulica Ljubljana. 



Mazzini 26, Florence (114) 

For other countries, apply: 
PUBLICATIONS DEPARTMENT OF THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS, 

GENEVA (Switzerland). 



I 
if. 

I 




University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 



Acme Library Card Pocket 
LOWE-MARTIN CO. Limited 




r 



k 



