The Art of 



COOKING - 
SERVING 




WITH 549 TESTED CRfSCO RECIPES 



HOW TO USE THIS BOOK 

To find a desired recipe use Alphabetical Index, 
page 244. 

"Success Secrets/' at the beginning of each chapter, 
show you how to avoid failures in cooking. Be sure 
to read them. 

"How to Plan Your Meals," page 39, tells you all 
the important facts you need to know about nutrition. 

Turn to page 220 for seasonable family menus; to 
page 232 for menus for special occasions. 

When in doubt about how to set your table correctly 
look up the rules in Chapters I and II. 

Are your meals in a rut? The appliances on pages 35 
to 38 make old dishes new. 

You will find tables of weights, measures and cooking 
temperatures on pages 241 to 243. 

Recipes for church suppers, serving fifty or more 
persons, are on pages 204 to 211. 



CAUTIONS 

Make all measurements level. Read recipes over 
carefully before starting to work. 



The Art of Cooking and Serving 




"Plum "Pudding (Page 194) Pumpkin Pie (Page 184) 

z^Cince Pie (Page 183) 



Thanksgiving "Desserts 



<^<&««&<&^(^? < &«»& >< 6^«& > 



THE ART OF 

Qoking and Serving 



^Procter & (gamble 

CINCINNATI, OHIO 



Crisco is the registered trade-mark 
of a shortening manufactured by 
The Procter & Gamble Company 



Copyright 1037 

by The Procter & Gamble Co. 

Cincinnati 

Printed in U.S.A. 
271-T 



ACKNOWLEDGMENT . 

The accessories shown in our photographs of correctly set tables were supplied by the following famous 
shops in New York: The Gorham Company — Solid silver; Ovington Brothers Company — 
Plated silver, china and glass; James McCutcheon and Company — Linen; Josiah Wedgewood 
and Sons — China; Joseph Heinrichs — Brass samovar; Stern Brothers — Furniture, ship 
model and screen. 



FO%£WO%!T) 



HOMEMAKERS, it would appear, are in need 
of a brief, authentic reference book on modern 
cooking and serving. Though our standards 
of living are higher today than they ever were, they 
are simpler, for common sense and the new knowl- 
edge about health have shaped them. The lavish, 
formal table customs of twenty or even ten years 
ago now seem pretentious and out of date. 

With these facts in mind this book has been written. 
Besides information on nutrition and table service, it 
contains more than five hundred recipes, all of which 
were carefully tested before they were permitted a 
place here. The majority of them call for Crisco — but 
there are recipes for foods, too, in which no shorten- 
ing is used, because it is desired that this book shall 
be a rounded-out cooking guide of the greatest pos- 
sible value to the average homemaker. 



0^^^>-^^^^^^ 



CONTENTS 

Foreword 

Table Service in the Servantless House .... 1 

Table Service in the House with a Servant ... 25 

Helpful Cooking Equipment 34 

How to Plan Your Meals 39 

Deep Fat Frying 44 

Soups 62 

Cereals and Cheese 70 

Eggs 76 

Fish 81 

Meat and Poultry 87 

Vegetables 102 

Meat, Fish and Vegetable Sauces 113 

Quick Breads 117 

Yeast Breads 129 

Salads 136 

Sandwiches 144 

Cakes and Cookies 149 

Pastry 172 

Desserts and Sauces 188 

Candy 199 

Large Quantity Cooking 204 

Specialty Dishes 212 

Spring-Summer Menus 220 

Autumn-Winter Menus 226 

Menus for Special Occasions 232 

Index — What to Serve and How to Serve it . . . 235 

Time Tables and Charts 241 

Index 244 



GOOD NEWS OF A GRAND NEW CRISCO 



CRISCO is an old friend to most women who have begun 
housekeeping in the past 25 years. A friend whose famil- 
iar blue and white wrapper has been seen in their kitchens 
for years and is there today — the most popular shortening 
on the market. 

Of course, improvements have been made from time to time 
in Crisco. But many good cooks don't realize that today a new 
kind of Crisco is being made and sold which surpasses anything 
produced before — a genuinely super-creamed Crisco. This new 
Crisco has all the fine qualities of the old Crisco plus many 
new advantages. You will find it now, at your dealers, in the 
same familiar blue and white wrapped can. 

CUTS CREAMING TIME IN HALF 

New, super-creamed Crisco has been creamed and blended 
over and over again at the spotless Crisco factory to make it 
the lightest, fluffiest shortening ever made. You know what 
an arm-tiring task it used to be to blend a shortening with 
the sugar in making a cake. You could stir and stir, and it 
wasn't until you were practically worn out that the mixture 
was ready for the flour and milk. 

Suppose it is a whole egg cake you are making. All you have 
to do is to measure your Crisco and sugar directly into your 
mixing bowl, break in your eggs — or yolks as the recipe may 
state — and stir briskly. In less than half a minute you will 
find the ingredients are thoroughly blended together and ready 
for the addition of flour and milk. Quite different, isn't it, 
from the old method of first creaming up a hard, stiff" shortening, 
then adding the sugar little by little and finally beating in 
the eggs? 

MAKES RICH TENDER PASTRY 

You'll be surprised to find this new super-creamed Crisco 
mixes so lightly and smoothly, so easily, with flour it gives 
your pastries a real rich, creamy lightness . . . makes them 
meltingly tender. 



Good cooks are discovering everywhere that pies made with 
new Crisco are more digestible too. Their tender, flaky light 
crust, free from sogginess, is the answer. 

CRISP AND GREASELESS FRIED FOODS 

Everyone wants crisp and greaseless fried foods . . . light 
and easy to digest. This new super-creamed Crisco won't 
smoke at proper frying temperatures. It forms a crisp, tender 
crust on the surface of the food, sealing it instantly, so that 
no grease can soak in, and the fine delicate flavor of the food 
itself is preserved. Crisco fried foods are crisp on the outside, 
tender and well cooked on the inside — really digestible. More 
and more good cooks are using Crisco for deep frying and pan 
frying as well as for their cakes. 

FIT FOR DELICATE STOMACHS 

Doctors and nurses as well as some 11,000,000 good cooks 
and Crisco enthusiasts find that Crisco foods agree with delicate 
digestions. If you haven't tried the improved new super-creamed 
Crisco, you can't imagine how light and easy to digest fried 
foods and pastry can be. 

KEEP IT ON THE PANTRY SHELF 

There is no need to keep Crisco in the refrigerator. It keeps 
sweet on the pantry shelf, and, kept at room temperature, is 
always ready for cake or pie making and for frying. Crisco used 
for frying can be strained and used over and over again. 

TRY NEW CRISCO SEE FOR YOURSELF 

Naturally, you'll want to find out for yourself just how 
Crisco has been improved. You'll want to test out the new 
Crisco in your own kitchen with these recipes. All we ask is 
that you will give the new Crisco a real trial not only for cakes 
or pastry, but for cookies, biscuits, fritters, deep fat frying 
and pan frying — for everything you cook and bake. The 3-lb. 
can with its lower price per pound, is the economical size to buy. 

Home Economics Dept. 



CHAPTER I 



Table Service 
in the Servantless House 

THREE things a meal must be when you are your own 
cook and waitress: it must be nourishing, it must be 
reasonably easy to prepare and it must give your family 
pleasure in the way it is served. 

Since well-bred people avoid display, especially display that 
is out of keeping with their means, the mistress of the servant- 
less house does not attempt the formalities of table service 
observed by the Richest-Family-in-Town. The old proverb 
that advises us to bite off only as much as we can chew applies 
very aptly to serving. It is a sign of good taste to do only as 
much as we can do well, and to leave the extreme expressions of 
style to those who have money and servants to carry them out. 

The intelligent woman fits her service to her pocketbook and 
strength. Certain fundamental rules she observes to the letter, 
of course, but beyond that she is given a wide latitude to work 
out her own taste and convenience. She may choose, for in- 
stance, to bring broiled chops to the table in a covered earthen- 
ware casserole, instead of on the platter which matches her 
dinner set, but what sane person would find fault with this 
method when it is the only way of keeping the food piping hot 
on the long journey from her particular kitchen? 

This matter of serving hot foods hot and cold foods cold 
happens to be one of those fundamental rules which no woman 
who aspires to be a good housekeeper can make light of. It 
just has to be done, however it is accomplished. 

Quite as hard and fast is the edict about clean linen and 
shining silver. Better never to use anything but doilies, and 
keep them immaculately fresh, than to cover the table for even 
one meal with a cloth having a single spot on it. In many 

[1] 




For breakfast in the house without a maid you will put the fruit course on 
the table before your family assembles. The fruit plate or saucer is 
placed on the breakfast plate 



homes of wealth tablecloths, as a matter of fact, are no longer 
seen; lace or even linen runners and place mats have sup- 
planted them. This type of linen demands a well-finished table 
top, of course, either of paint or of natural wood smoothly 
polished. Probably the latter is the more practical, as hot 
dishes will not mar it if it is left unvarnished and rubbed down 
frequently with oil or wax. 

Table silver will always be bright if washed in hot suds made 
with Ivory Soap and dried at once with a soft clean towel. 
Silver polish should be kept close to the kitchen sink so that 
stained pieces may be rubbed up after each meal. This plan 
consumes only a few extra minutes each day, but how it reduces 
the labor of the weekly silver cleaning! 

Just one more adamantine law. Each place, or cover, as one 
sometimes sees it called, must be carefully set with the knife 

[2] 



The Jervantless ^ouse 



at the right of the place plate and the fork at the left. The 
sharp edge of the knife must be turned toward the plate and 
the fork must be placed with its prongs pointing upward. 
The water glass takes its stand about one inch above the point 
of the knife, while the bread-and-butter plate goes to the op- 
posite side of each place just above the fork. The small butter 
knife is placed on the bread-and-butter plate, either across the 
top or the right-hand edge. 

This is the skeleton arrangement of a place. Additional 
silver and glass is added to it according to the meal and the 
kinds of food to be served, and a napkin always puts in its ap- 
pearance, sometimes on the plate, at other times to the left of 
the fork. But these are details which are easily remembered 
once you understand the reasons for them. And it is high 
time to discuss them now. 

BREAKFAST 

In most households breakfast, on week days at any rate, is a 
scramble with everyone coming down at the last minute and 
wanting to be waited on at once. But it is the meal, too, that 
starts the day right or wrong for each member of the family 




A breakfast place 



4 The *Art of Rooking and Serving 

and so you, the homemaker, manage to have the table looking 
pretty, to wear your most serene manner and to serve food that 
looks absolutely irresistible. 

If the condition of your table top permits, you will use a 
small breakfast cloth or a runner and place mats, which may be 
all white or embroidered or woven in gay colors. Their variety 
is infinite, ranging all the way from an excellent quality of 
brightly checked gingham to a hand-woven linen embellished 
with lace and Italian cutwork. The napkins are small, match- 
ing the color of the cloth or runner. 

For the center of the table a bowl or vase with just a few 
flowers of the garden variety is better than a tight mass of 
formal hothouse flowers. Or fruits of several kinds piled 
together in a bowl make a colorful decoration. When neither 
fruit nor flowers are available you may devise a charming center- 
piece of some tiny ferns combined with a bit of partridge vine 
or other colored woodsy thing in a low bowl or delicate wicker 
basket. 

At each place is a plate — breakfast size — a knife, fork, bread- 
and-butter plate, butter knife and a water glass. Here again, 
you see, is our skeleton place arrangement. 

But you are going to have grapefruit or baked apple for your 
first course. You will need a spoon for it — so lay it at the right 
of the knife. If you have children you will certainly serve 
cereal. A dessert spoon is the generally accepted implement for 
this food. Put it between the knife and fruit spoon. Boiled 
eggs would necessitate the addition of a teaspoon. This tea- 
spoon would be given the place next to the knife, and the cereal 
and fruit spoons would be moved to the outside places, since it 
is considered more convenient for silver to be laid in the order 
of its use — the fork, spoon or knife for the first course being 
found on the outside of the row, while the pieces for the last 
course are on the inside, nearest the plate. 

If you pour the coffee at the table, as you probably will want 
to do, you will lay a teaspoon on each saucer before you pass it. 

For breakfast in the house without a maid you will put the 
fruit course on the table before your family assembles, so as to 



The Jervantless ^/ouse 



save yourself as many steps as possible after the meal has begun. 
The fruit plate or saucer will be placed on the breakfast plate. 
And just here the reason becomes perfectly evident as to why 
the breakfast napkin, neatly folded, must repose at the left of 
the place, just beside the fork. If it were put on the plate it 
would be covered by the dish of fruit! 

The coffee service is beside your place. An electric perco- 
lator is a wonderful possession, permitting, as it does, the coffee 
to be made on the table. But if one is not so fortunate as to 
own this convenient device, the coffee is strained in the kitchen 
into a well-heated china or silver coffee pot and brought to 
the table. 

Toast or hot bread is usually served on a bread tray or in a 
basket which has been lined with a fresh napkin large enough to 
fold over the contents and keep them warm. 

Alcove breakfasting for the small family is more and more 
popular as our form of living becomes condensed and simplified, 
and the breakfast alcove is being added to many new houses and 
apartments. The alcove is part of, or very close to, the 
kitchen and it makes the serving of the meal a much easier affair. 

The setting of the alcove table is the same as that of the 
ordinary breakfast table, but one has to beware of crowding. 
It is well to call into play the tea-wagon or a small table on 
which the extra things may be placed. The used plates may 
be put out of sight on the lower shelf of the tea-wagon. 

And, by the way, a tea-wagon is one of the best servants the 
servantless house can have. It may be trained to carry things 
to and from the kitchen under your guiding hand, or to stand 
faithfully beside the dining room table holding fresh china and 
silver for the last course on its upper shelf, and amiably receiv- 
ing used plates on its concealed under shelf. 

With a small family one may vary the breakfast, or the 
luncheon either, in many ways. The mistress of a perfectly 
charming little house in the country has a way of surprising 
her family occasionally by serving breakfast or luncheon on her 
spotless marble-topped kitchen table, which looks out over an 




There are all sorts of alluring breakfast sets 



expanse of green lawn. I shall never forget one breakfast 
there in her kitchen when I was a week-end guest in the Spring. 
We had golden popovers and home-made marmalade for break- 
fast and I looked out upon a glory of white and pink apple 
blossoms on the wide-spreading apple tree that presses close to 
the house. The kitchen is as immaculate as a drawing-room 
and its blue-and-white freshness adds to one's appetite. To 
achieve such an effect with a kitchen breakfast one cannot be 
a cluttery person. 

Another homemaker frequently transfers breakfast on a warm 
day to the side porch with its lovely view of the winding river 
and the white church spire sailing out of the trees on the oppo- 
site bank. All three of her family lend a hand at the carrying 
and for the extra steps there is a soul-satisfying half-hour of 
matchless peace and beauty. 

ENTERTAINING AT BREAKFAST 

When there are guests for breakfast one may add a few special 
touches as a tribute to the festive occasion. Dressing up the 
fruit by serving it in baskets made of the shell of the grapefruit 

[6] 



The ^ervantless ^/ouse 



or orange, or scooping melon out in balls and serving it in 
sherbet glasses, or laying a handful of luscious red strawberries 
on a bed of fresh grape or nasturtium leaves, enlivens the first 
course; while eggs baked in individual casseroles or an omelette 
garnished with parsley or mushrooms give a "company" air 
to a quite simple meal. 

More and more it is becoming a custom when one has guests 
to serve breakfast on a tray either in the bed-room or down- 
stairs — in winter, before an open fire, in summer, on the porch. 
It gives a guest— usually it is a woman who welcomes this 
pleasant little courtesy — a bit more freedom about her hour of 
waking and in the end it is much more convenient for the host- 
ess, permitting her to send her family off about their day's 
work and to get her own duties well under way. 

There are all sorts of alluring breakfast sets, costly and in- 
expensive, but the important point is that everything should 
match and that the tray should not be a conglomeration of odd 
bits of china. One needs, of course, a small cream pitcher and 
sugar bowl, a covered dish for toast, a tall glass for orange 
juice, which is preferable to the orange served whole, or an 
individual fruit dish and a small tea or coffee pot. A very 
small vase with one flower is a touch that completes the tray 
breakfast, the keynote of which should be daintiness. 

THE FAMILY LUNCHEON 
The homemaker who from choice or necessity serves dinner 
at night has need of all her ingenuity in making the mid-day 
luncheon an inspiring meal. Nearly always there are left- 
overs to be used up and only a woman with a glowing imagina- 
tion and the true housekeeping instinct can make them look 
and taste enticing. 

Everything must be done to make the luncheon table at- 
tractive. There should always be a pretty centerpiece and, as 
at breakfast, the low bowl with a few flowers in a holder in the 
Japanese fashion or a bowl of gaily assorted fruit is better than 
the more pretentious centerpiece. In one household where the 
mistress "can make anything grow" a succession of tulips, 




The informal type of table covering is the only correct thing for luncheon 
and no end of variety is possible 



daffodils and narcissi is kept blooming indoors throughout the 
winter and the vivid blossoms in a deep-toned blue or an ivory 
bowl make a lovely bit of color in the center of the table when 
all the world outside is gray. 

The informal type of table covering is the only correct thing 
for luncheon and no end of variety is possible. Pretty luncheon 
cloths or sets of runners are being made now of all sorts of 
materials besides linen — of checked ginghams, or of a fine 
quality crepe or even of closely woven straw and grass. 

The table is set with the silver necessary to the meal. If 
soup or bouillon in cups is the first course, the bouillon spoon 
will be placed at the right of the knife, just as the fruit spoon 
was for breakfast. The salad fork, if needed, will occupy the 
place immediately to the left of the plate, with the meat fork 
beyond it, following the rule that the last piece to be used shall 
be nearest the plate. 

f8] 



The Jervantless ^ouse 



If layer cake or pie happens to be the dessert, an extra fork 
will be required and this may either be placed before each 
person just before the dessert is served or it may be put on the 
table in the beginning, in which case it will take up its position 
next the plate, causing the salad and meat forks to be shifted 
to the left. Theoretically, silver for the last course is not sup- 
posed to be placed on the table until the time comes to serve 
that course, but such a ruling is very sensibly modified for 
the maidless house. 

Comfortingly enough, it is no great blunder, either, to serve 
soup in plates at an informal family luncheon, though for a 
formal one only cups with double handles (bouillon cups) would 
be possible. Soup in plates demands a soup spoon, of course, 
so place it to the right of the meat knife and omit the bouillon 
spoon. 

When the family assembles, the soup will be at each place, 
in plates as hot as they can be made, or in summer icy cold 
cantaloupe or fruit cocktail will substitute for it. If there is 
no introductory dish, then the main course will be on the table 
so that the housewife may sit down with the rest of the family 
and stay seated. If the dessert is one that does not need to be 




(<t^*# 




A lunch ton place 




S K ° 



The ^ervantless J^fovsE 11 

kept hot it should be placed on the serving table or tea-wagon 
before the meal begins and served from there. 

Where there are small children requiring something different 
from the regular menu, it is a good plan to supply their plates 
in the kitchen and bring them in ready for immediate consump- 
tion, so saving the children's patience and one's own steps. 

In some households there are children of an age sufficiently 
dependable to be trained as waitresses (or butlers). A wise 
mother will encourage her girls and boys to assume this share 
of the family responsibilities, and will cultivate their pride in 
doing their task well and in saving her so many steps. 

ENTERTAINING AT LUNCHEON 

There is no happier way of entertaining one's women friends 
than at luncheon. (Men, as a rule, are not devotees of this 
pleasant indoor sport.) 

Naturally if one has no maid one does not attempt a luncheon 
on a very large scale, although in nearly every community it 
is possible to draft for the occasional gala meal a helper who 
will either stay in the kitchen or help out as waitress. But let 
us suppose the worst; no "accommodator" is available, and 
you, in your one person, must perform in the triple role of 
cook-waitress-hostess. 

The first consideration is to choose a menu that will be as 
delightful as possible without presenting undue complications 
in serving. Dishes with "trailers" or sauces, gravies and condi- 
ments must be sternly foregone, but a simplified service does 
not mean that the food cannot be both delicious and interest- 
ing. When you next contemplate a luncheon you will find the 
menu on page 232 helpful, since it purposely avoids the pit- 
falls not foreseen by the unwary. 

It goes without saying that you will do all your marketing 
and as much preparation of the food as is possible on the day 
before the party. 

For a formal luncheon the tabic is spread with the hand- 
somest luncheon cloth, or runners and place mats, or center- 



The ^ervantless ^ouse 13 



piece and doilies that the hostess possesses. (A large white 
damask cloth is suitable only for dinner.) A handsome bowl 
or vase in the center holds some of the more delicate varieties 
of garden or hothouse flowers arranged loosely, their stems cut 
at uneven lengths, so that the effect is of grace and fragility 
rather than of the profuse costliness which fairly shrieks at 
one's guests: "count-me-there-are-two-dozen-of-me." 

If the table is very long and narrow it may be necessary to 
place two smaller bowls of the same flowers between the central 
bowl and the ends of the table. Or if the table is large and 
square you may want as many as four small vases ranged around 
the bigger one. Small dishes, or compotes, of salted nuts and 
candy complete the table decorations and it is needless to say 
that these compotes must be placed on the table in positions 
symmetrically related to the centerpiece and to each other, not 
plumped down anywhere with irregular intervals between them. 

For a small luncheon there is no real need of place cards, 
but you may choose to have them because of the festive touch 
they give. Where to put them depends upon the type of card 
you choose. The most conservative card is a small plain white 
oblong which is placed on top of the folded napkin at the left 
side of each place. But there are others which are designed to 
cling to the edge of the water glass or to the individual container 
for salted nuts. The most important point to remember in 
the choice of your place cards is that if decorated they must 
harmonize with your general color scheme. 

In entertaining either at luncheon or dinner it is the better 
part of wisdom not to string out the silver in a bewildering row 
at each place but to have the dessert spoons brought on when 
the last course is served. Put all extra silver on the serving 
table or tea-wagon in advance of the luncheon. 

When your guests come into the dining-room they find the 
first course on the service plates, half a grapefruit, melon, 
a cocktail or bouillon. When they are ready for the next 
course you will rise quietly, remove the used plates but not the 
service plates and carry them two at a time into the kitchen 
or pantry. 



14 The *Art of Rooking and Jerving 

From the last trip you will return with hot plates for the 
main course. Long before the luncheon you will have arranged 
with one of your guests, probably an intimate friend, to be a 
sort of assistant hostess, and so you have given her the place 
opposite your own at the other end of the table. Now you take 
away her service plate and put the hot plates in front of her. 
Then you bring on the main dish and place it before her to 
serve. 

While she is performing this duty you are free to refill the 
glasses and gather up each service plate as it is replaced by the 
hot plate. If there are vegetables to be passed, try to have one 
of the two-compartment dishes which may be bought either in 
china or Sheffield Plate. They make serving wonderfully 
expeditious. 

When your guests have been supplied with meat and vege- 
tables you will be free to sit down. A plate or small basket of 
bread may be passed from hand to hand around the table as it 
is needed, and jelly, nuts and relish may fare likewise. 

At the end of this course you will remove the used plates, 
taking one in each hand, but never piling them. Strict etiquette 
demands that you replace the used plate with a fresh service 
plate which would give way in a moment to the salad plate. 
But in a servantless house such a plan is not practical and, 
therefore, the place in front of each guest will be bereft of a 
plate for a few moments until you can fill it again with the 
salad plate. 

If tea or chocolate is to be served it is probably more suc- 
cessful for the hostess to pour it at the table from the prettiest 
service she can beg, borrow or buy, rather than to bring it in 
from the kitchen in cups. 

Finger bowls with a doily beneath are brought in on dessert 
plates. Each guest lifts the finger bowl, together with the 
doily, and places it on the table at her left, leaving the plate 
ready for the dessert. This may be ice cream in sherbet 
glasses brought in from the kitchen on a small tray, or it may 
be a delicate custard of some sort served by the hostess in glass 
saucers at the table, or an especially delicious tart or cake may 




A few of the many good designs to be found in the higher grades of 

china. From left to right: a handsome service plate for the formal 

dinner; a plain gold band design in Lenox china; a pleasing pattern 

in English china; a tea plate in solid color with center decoration 




In less expensive china or ware it is always safe for the housewife to 
choose of fine old patterns which have stood the test of time 




In excellent taste are these attractive flower and fruit holders of 

Spanish ware, white IVedgewood, silver, opalescent glass and 

Italian pottery 





Nothing so contributes to a pleasant dinner hour as a pretty table. 

The centerpiece may be a little more elaborate than for luncheon. The 

cloth is smooth and spotless 



be the ending to the luncheon — this last would be served on 
the dessert plates, of course. 



THE FAMILY DINNER 

The family dinner should be the clearing house for the best 
of the day's experiences of each member of the family. Dinner 
should be a relaxing meal, an end of the day affair to which 
each person contributes his most cheerful and amusing "yarns." 
On no account must it be the place where the day's troubles 
and disappointments are unloaded. 

A pretty table is the first requirement for a pleasant dinner 
hour. The centerpiece may be a little more elaborate than for 
luncheon. The cloth is smooth and spotless — of white damask 
that reaches almost to the floor — and a thick white "silence" 
cloth is stretched smoothly under it. (Runners and place mats 

[16] 



The Jervantless ^Touse 



17 



of linen or lace are also suitable.) Candles, which should never 
be used for luncheon, are perfect for dinner, casting a golden, 
flattering glow on objects and people. Such little touches 
as these make dinner a ceremony which warms the soul to 
think about all day. 

For the rest, everything is much as it is at luncheon. While 
at a formal dinner you would not use the small bread-and- 
butter plate you would, no doubt, have difficulty in making 
your family subscribe to this principle when they are alone. 
So by all means let them have this very wholesome food and 
the equipment necessary to its use. A detail photograph of a 
correctly set dinner place is shown below. 

The carving will, of course, be done on the table and in 
many households the homemaker will do well to see that the 
carver does not give all the choicest pieces to the rest of the 
family while keeping the toughest, least attractive scraps for 
himself. Not infrequently fathers are quite as unselfish as 
mothers! 

Vegetables may be kept hot in covered dishes during the 
meal. Just before dessert is placed on the table all salt and 
pepper holders, bread-and-butter plates and condiment dishes 




if 



A detnil photograph of a correctly set family dinner table 










& sT fc "5', 

o o s *^ 
o .S 






S v. 

OS Svq 



1 *"5 

- § 

*» 'Si *-» 

• *» ^ s* 



r-s* s 






'H (1, V U 



The Jervantless ^Touse 19 

are removed, the cloth is crumbed with a folded napkin and 
plate, and the water glasses are refilled. 

ENTERTAINING AT DINNER 

To the woman with no maid entertaining at dinner is the 
very ultimate test of skill. Where more than two guests are 
added to the usual family it is wise to have some help if it can 
be obtained, but without help it is possible to achieve a success- 
ful dinner by careful planning. There is much that may be 
done in the morning to clear the tracks and keep the last hours 
from being rushed. 

The dessert may nearly always be prepared in advance; if it 
is to be ice cream from a caterer it is even more easily disposed 
of. The vegetables may be cleaned and partly prepared in the 
morning, the salad washed and put on ice, salad dressing made, 
often the soup may be made and reheated just before the meal. 
The dishes may all be wiped and laid out and a working plan 
fully organized so that the hostess may face the dinner hour 
calmly. 

For her table she uses her best linen cloth and her best em- 
broidered napkins. The centerpiece is a handsome silver or 
porcelain vase or a fragile aflfair of engraved or colored glass. 
Flowers may be arranged in it by mid-afternoon, and they must 
harmonize in color with the decorations of the dinner china 
and dining-room. Four single candlesticks or two candelabra 
will supply all the light that is needed on the table. 

Salted nuts and candies are in small dishes placed at orderly 
intervals on the cloth. Each place is laid at an exactly equal 
distance from the adjoining places, for here, too, order is the 
first law. 

On the serving table extra plates, finger-bowls and water 
pitcher are all set out, the last two to be filled just before dinner 
is announced. 

When the guests enter the dining-room they find the first 
course on the table. For the hostess without a maid the best 
choice for a first course is probably a cold food like fruit, 



The Jervantless ^/ouse 21 

oysters or an hors d'oeuvre, since none of these will lose any of 
its palatability during the slight delay which occurs while the 
guests find their places. The plate on which the first course 
is served rests on the service plate and the napkin (folded as in 
the illustration on page 17) lies at the left of the place. 

The wise hostess plans a menu that requires the minimum 
of passing. Vegetables are a part of some meat dishes, as 
chicken casserole, but when they must be passed separately 
the two or three compartment dish will be found of the greatest 
help. It should be presented to each guest from his left side 
and he should be allowed to help himself. 

For the dinner of small proportions it is both pleasant and 
convenient to serve the coffee in the living-room. The host 
may take the coffee things in on a tray on which the cups and 
saucers and sugar bowl have been arranged in advance. It is a 
pleasant final ceremony, especially if there is a big wood fire 
around which everyone can gather. 

AFTERNOON TEA 

For the woman without a maid no form of entertaining is 
more practical than the gathering together of two or three 
choice friends over a cup of tea. It involves no wear and tear 
of preparation, she can express her very innermost yearnings 
of daintiness and it comes at the most leisurely hour of the day. 

Everywhere afternoon tea is wedging into popularity — with 
hot tea served in the winter and iced beverages in the summer. 
It calls for the simplest accompanying dainties if you invite 
only two or three friends, and if you have no maid you w r on't 
attempt more than eight or ten guests even in your most ex- 
pansive mood. For such an occasion you will press a close 
friend into service to help with the passing and replenishing 
of the tea cups. 

The more intimate and individual an afternoon tea, the more 
delightful it is. Mrs. Armington, who is one-fourth American 
and three-fourths English, always brings her pot of tea from 
the kitchen with the tea all brewed — a special blend of her own, 
by the way — and serves with it nothing but the crispest, thin- 




For the woman without a maid no form of entertaining is more prac- 
tical than the gathering together of two or three choice friends over a 
cup of tea 



nest pieces of buttered toast and delicious home-made jam. 
Everything is so perfect that one would never think of wanting 
anything else — which is as well, since it is all she ever serves. 
Needless to say she rarely invites more than four guests at 
once for the very first mandate of tea is that a guest shall have 
a real chance to chat with her hostess. 

Everything that one has for tea, unless it is toast, usually 
may be prepared ahead so that there is no need for flutter. 
Ordinarily it seems simpler to bring the hot water in from the 
kitchen and coax it to a final boil in an alcohol or electric kettle. 
If you have inherited or been presented with a silver service 
you are fortunate, but a samovar or a copper kettle serves 
splendidly. You have out, of course, your most delicate cups 
and saucers, a pretty white tea-cloth covers the tea table, 

[22] 



The Jervantless J^ouse 23 

and the cream pitcher, sugar bowl, plates, small napkins, a 
strainer, a tea caddy and teaspoons complete the list of inedible 
necessities. 

A tea wagon is invaluable in saving steps but a prettily 
arranged tray on a small firm table looks really more interest- 
ing. If you own a nest of small tables, distribute them among 
your guests, keeping the largest one for the tea tray. 

In summer, tea on the porch is very much the same, except 
that iced tea or punch is served. The preparation of the 
beverage necessarily takes place behind the scenes where the 
ice may be cracked and the tea or ginger ale or grape juice poured 
in. Then everything is brought in on a tray, the beady pitcher 
sprigged with mint, the cakes and sandwiches. It is a little 
more of a ready-made affair, but it gives the hostess that much 
more freedom once she settles herself with the tray. The 
iced drink is a peculiarly American development, and conse- 
quently being without old-world traditions almost any variation 
and accompaniment that one likes is correct. 

SUNDAY NIGHT SUPPER 

The very term, "Sunday night supper" has a special flavor 
of its own. Immediately it conjures up freedom from the usual 
routine. Often the man of the family who has secret yearnings 
to cook has his chance on Sunday night, and turns out something 
staggering to the imagination of the family. One nationally 
known literary man has made almost as much of a reputation 
among his intimate friends for his Welsh rarebit as for his novels 
of contemporary life. Almost anything is likely to go into the 
making of it, while his wife stands by in apprehension. But the 
result without fail is delightful. 

In no way can a family more truly express hospitality than 
by giving a standing invitation to their friends to "drop in" for 
Sunday night supper. Especially can the family without a 
maid entertain easily in this way, making the Sunday evening 
at home an occasion of real delight to their friends. 




For the dinner of small proportions it is both pleasant and con: 
to serve coffee in the living room. The host can carry the coffee 
things in on a tray on which everything but the coffee has been ar- 
ranged in advance 



The dining table should be prettily set and lighted with 
candles. If there are a number of guests it is best to serve 
the meal "buffet" style — that is, the food is placed on the table, 
the guests help themselves and carry off their plates to small 
tables (card tables with luncheon cloths will do) scattered 
through the dining room and possibly the living room. 

The fare usually consists of cold meat, salad, a hot food 
prepared in the chafing dish, or scalloped potatoes, or Boston 
baked beans or spaghetti with a wonderful Italian sauce, 
brought very hot from the kitchen. Tea and coffee are avail- 
able and there are lots of hot rolls or biscuits. The dessert may 
be layer cake or cream puffs or delicate home-made tarts. 
Someone, usually the host or hostess, replenishes the hot dish 
and biscuits from time to time, but with this exception very 
little service is necessary. It is an easy and a delightful way 
to gather together a number of friends who "mix" well. 

If the guests are few on Sunday night the dining table will 
be set just as it is for luncheon and everyone will sit down at a 
regular place. 

[24] 



CHAPTER II 



Table Service 
in the House with a Servant 

THE house with a maid! What delectable pictures of 
faultless service it conjures up to the young housekeeper 
not yet saddened by experience. But the older home- 
maker is deceived by no such illusions. Rare indeed is the 
perfect maid; if she exists our friends are the lucky possessors, 
and such as fall to our lot need training and endless encourage- 
ment. 

But one can transform an untidy, inexperienced girl into a 
well-groomed, professional servant if one is patient and kind 
and fair. She will never be able to accomplish the work of three 
people — nor even as much as one, if that one happens to be her 
mistress, all of whose love and interest are naturally enough 
centered upon the household. 

Any maid worth having wants to look her best in the dining- 
room and to wait on table properly. She should be supplied 
with well-fitting uniforms of washable cotton for the morning, 
of black or gray material for the evening, with plenty of white 
aprons and collars and cuffs. 

There are two distinct forms of serving a meal. That which 
has gradually gained favor in this country is the Russian style 
by which everything is brought in from the kitchen and pre- 
sented to each person at the table, who serves himself. The 
dish is then carried to the serving table or pantry until wanted 
again. Except in homes where there is more than one servant 
or where the family is very small a compromise is usually 
effected between this and the second form of serving where the 
roast, bread, celery and any other small dishes are placed upon 
the table. Vegetable dishes are presented at the left and all 
plates are set down and removed from the right. The maid 

[25] 





Uniforms from Lord Iff Taylor, New York 



The correctly dressed maid wears this finely striped percale 
uniform in the morning {green, pink or blue) with collar, cuffs 
and large apron of white cambric. In the afternoon and eve- 
ning she appears in this attractive uniform of suede-rayon {black, 
gray, deep blue or maroon) with dainty collar, cuffs and apron 
of patterned organdie 



The j#busE with a Servant 27 



holds a dish on the palm of her left hand, with a folded napkin 
beneath it. 

Where there is but one maid several small dishes, such as 
olives, celery and sauces, may be passed at one time on a tray. 
A meal must be served without long pauses and it is better to 
compromise with the formal code of serving than to go through 
the agony of seeing the last relative or guest supplied just as 
the first one finishes. 

THE FORMAL LUNCHEON 

The setting of a luncheon table is very much the same 
whether one has a maid or not, charm being the object rather 
than ceremoniousness. The table can be colorful in its appoint- 
ments and permits of far more individuality than for dinner. 

In the last chapter we went into the matter of centerpieces 
and decorations. If the luncheon is a small affair, one may 
place upon the table besides the nuts and bonbons, the dishes 
of relishes and the rolls or bread to be passed by the guests to 
one another. 

Each place is laid with a service plate, the prettiest the hostess 
has, and with the necessary knives and forks with the single 
exception of the dessert fork and spoon. A small napkin 
matching the cloth or runner is folded and laid on the service 
plate. A bread-and-butter plate with small butter knife is 
placed at the left side of the place just beyond the forks. Butter 
may be placed on the plate but, preferably, it is served by the 
waitress while the guests are eating the first course. The water 
glass is at the tip of the knife. 

The moment the guests are seated the first course is served — 
soup, oysters or hors d'oeuvre, being placed on the service 
plate. This plate remains until the main course, when it is 
removed and a hot plate from the kitchen is substituted. 
Except when the salad plate is removed and the table is cleared 
and crumbed in preparation for the dessert course, there is 
always a plate of some kind before the guest. 

With the bringing in of the dessert service, everything is 
removed from the table except the candies and nuts. The 



77^ dinner party, whether it be a small affair of half a dozen 
people, or stretches the table to the last limit of extra leaves, will 
always be the entertainment par excellence in our social calendar 



dessert plates usually have been gotten ready beforehand with 
the spoon or fork, or both, on them. The finger bowl with 
doily beneath is always on the dessert plate. One or two small 
blossoms or flower petals are often seen in the finger bowl. 

Luncheon usually consists of not more than four courses and 
unless there is bridge afterwards it is a short affair, the guests, 
unless they are intimate friends, making their adieus by three 
o'clock. 

THE FORMAL DINNER 

The dinner party, whether it be a small affair of half a dozen 
people, or stretches the table to the last limit of extra leaves 
and brings out the reserves of the family china and silver, will 
always be the entertainment par excellence in our social calen- 
dar. Served in the glow of candlelight, with men and women 

[28] 



The J^ouse with a Jervant 



29 



of congenial tastes together, there is a sparkle about it that no 
other form of entertainment can ever quite rival. 

As befitting the more formal meal a dinner expresses a certain 
stateliness and dignity in its appointments. What guest is 
not subtly flattered to know that the yellow gleam of candles 
in the silver candelabra shines upon one's best silver and prized 
Wedgewood and that the tea roses in the bowl in the center of 
the table have been especially selected to give him pleasure? 

Seat your guests with thought as to which ones "match up" 
well, plan the best dinner of which your house is capable, and 
then settle back with a calm mind to contribute the very best 
of yourself to the great event. 

A place at the dinner table is set very much as it is for 
luncheon except that there is no bread-and-butter plate, that 
some extra knives or forks are seen and that the napkin is a 
large one to match the cloth. If there are any other beverages 
to be served than water, the extra glasses are arranged in a 
semi-circle to the right of the water glass. 




A place at the dinner table is set very much 
as it is for luncheon except that there is no 
bread-and-butter plate y that some extra 
knives or forks are added and that thr 
kin is a large one y matching the cloth 




The roast is carved in the kitchen, then skillfully put together again 
so that its appearance is not harmed. It is then brought in and offered 
to each guest who serves himself 




All serving dishes are presented at the left side of the person seated, 
fork and spoon are needed for convenience 




V 



Vegetables are a part of some meat dishes, as they are in the case of 
this planked steak, garnished and ready to be carried to the table 




The salad course may be arranged in a pretty salad howl and passed for 
each person to help himself 



32 The <^rt of Rooking and Serving 

For a dinner of more than eight it is almost necessary to 
have two maids and a double service, each dish of food being 
exactly duplicated. For a small dinner use the divided dish in 
which two vegetables can be offered at one time. Each dish 
when it is brought in is passed first to the hostess. 

If there are two maids one serves one side of the table and 
the other the opposite side and usually they vary the ends at 
which they begin so that one guest is not every time left until 
the last. At a formal dinner things are passed but once; at a 
smaller affair they may be passed twice. 

How to serve the meat course is entirely a matter for indi- 
vidual choice. If a hostess abides by the letter of the law of 
fashion the roast is carved in the kitchen, then skillfully put 
together again so that its appearance is not harmed. It is 
then brought in and offered to each guest who serves himself. 
But even with a retinue of servants some households prefer to 
have the carving done at table, and there is no good reason why 
this should not be done. 

Coffee is usually served in the living-room. In very formal 
houses the women would leave the men in the dining-room to 
drink their coffee and to smoke, while they went to the draw- 
ing-room for their coffee. (It would have to be called a drawing- 
room in such a house!) There the men would join them later. 
But in these informal days comparatively few houses follow 
this plan. 

THE LARGE TEA 

The formal reception as a form of entertaining has been 
relegated to the past along with bustles and hips and ping-pong 
and has been replaced by the jollier, less formal afternoon tea. 
This may be of any proportions from the two or three intimates 
gathered together over a small tea table to the large affair 
introducing a society bud. 

For the larger functions the dining-room table is laid with a 
pretty cloth, the tea service is at one end, and if men are invited, 
a service of coffee is surely at the other. (If just women are 
coming, chocolate might be provided instead.) If the time is 




For the larger tea the dining room table is laid with a pretty cloth, the 
tea service is at one end, and if men are invited, a coffee service is surely 

at the other 



summer, the table is usually out on the veranda or on the lawn, 
and the tea becomes an even less formal affair. 

But for an indoor tea, the shades are drawn and the table 
is lighted with candles. There is a handsome centerpiece of 
flowers, and both on the table and the sideboard or buffet are 
small dishes of various kinds of candies and salted nuts so that 
a guest may help herself. Dishes of small and delicious sand- 
wiches and cakes are either on the table within easy reach or 
they are passed by maids or by friends who are assisting. 

The tea or coffee service is presided over by an intimate 
friend of the hostess who usually knows most of the guests and 
says something agreeable to them as they pause beside her. 
While there are irreverent men who call this kind of party a 
"tea-fight" it will always be dear to the hearts of women, who 
find it an easy as well as a satisfactory way of dispensing 
hospitality. 

[33] 



CHAPTER III 



Helpful Cooking Equipment 

A FTER you have the indispensable "pots and pans" for 

l\ your kitchen and it's a question of what to add next, do 
JL A>you sometimes wonder what to buy? 

Or perhaps you realize that the preparation of food is a lot 
more trouble than it should be. When you begin to look around 
for ways and means to make it easier, do you know which of 
the up-to-date devices save labor? 

Or possibly you're a thrifty housewife who doesn't like to 
see food wasted, and yet that old casserole has been so over- 
worked the family sighs on seeing it. What you need is a new 
baking dish or a few individual ones to give those unavoidable 
left-overs an appearance of exciting novelty. 

On the other hand, you may have solved these particular 
difficulties and want to know just what equipment you will need 
to add attractive, original touches and tempting garnishes to 
your dishes. A little "dressing-up" will often make the simplest 
food a delight to the eyes of your family and friends. For in- 
stance, potatoes — most prosaic of foods! — take on a new interest 
when you cut them with a fancy cutter before frying them; a 
plain pudding or molded dessert prepared in a fancy mold gains 
a prestige it never had before; and the most easily made vege- 
table, meat or fish salad becomes a party dish if a few fancy-cut 
garnishes of beet, pimento or green pepper are added. 

Whatever your problem this chapter will help you. It has 
many suggestions from the most efficient equipment for deep 
fat frying to the latest implements for making fancy cake 
icings and the vegetable garnishes. 

This does not mean that you will need them all, but certain 
of them you will surely want, and a few minutes of "eye" 
shopping here will save you many hours of wearisome looking 
in the stores. 

[34] 




For Accurate Results: Standard measuring cups and spoons; a spatula for 
making measurements level; an oven thermometer to insure perfect baking 
if you have no oven regulator; a glass thermometer to give correct tempera- 
tures of boiled mixtures, candy, yeast bread dough, etc., and kitchen scales 
for weighing meats and poultry to determine length of cooking time 




For Mixing Cakes, Breads and Pastries: Nesti of bowls in gla- 

or enamel; large and small sifters; spatula and knife for cutting Crisco into 
flour for pastry; large and small rotary beaters and wire whisks for h< 
eggs; plain and slotted mixing spoons; wooden spoons and a rolling pin 



jT\ 




For Deep Fat Frying: An iron kettle (round or square bottomed); a wire 
basket for draining and lifting out cooked food; a deep-fat thermometer to 
gauge correct temperature of fat; a long handled spoon and wire dipper for 
lifting food from fat if no basket is used; a fork for removing food from 
basket; a shallow pan lined with unglazed paper on which to drain food, and 
a bowl, strainer and cheesecloth to use in clarifying Crisco after each frying 




For Baking Breads, Muffins and Popovers: A flat pan for biscuits, rolls 
and scones; loaf and square pans for yeast, quick loaf and cornbread; 
muffin or gem pan and fancy cornbread pan and iron pans for popovers 




For the Fancy Touch: Back row — a batter forcer with perforated change- 
able ends for making ornamental cookies; a pastry tube with fancy tips to 
make decorative frosting, whipped cream or Duchess potato garnishes, and 
for shaping French doughnuts, eclairs and cream puffs; an icing gun and tips 
for making ornamental frostings; fancy cutters for cookies and sandwiches. 
Front row — a pastry jagger; a pie-crust cutter-and-marker and patty pans 




For Molded Salads, Desserts and Ices, Steamed Breads and Puddings: 
Covered molds with center tubes for steaming breads and puddings; covered 
melon and ring molds for frozen desserts and salads; and open molds — large, 
individual, border, fluted or in designs for molding desserts and jellied salads 




Other Indispensable Tools: A small grater; pan lifter; set of small fancy 
cutters for vegetable garnishes; a broad spatula for lifting cookies, turning 
fried foods, etc.; an apple corer; strawberry huller; snip for removing pine- 
apple eyes; knife sharpener; brush for greasing pans; pair of scissors for shred- 
ding lettuce, etc., and a board for kneading bread, rolling out pastry, etc. 




Casseroles and Baking Dishes: Large-size casseroles of glass, porcelain and 
earthenware; individual scallop shell, casseroles, baking dishes and custard 
cups in which foods can be cooked and served 




For Baking Cakes, Pies, Tarts and Cookies: Layer cake pans with and 
without removable bottoms; plain and fluted tube pans; glass loaf and shallow 
cake pans; small muffin tins; enamel pie pan; open-end cookie sheet; fluted 
tart shell tins; a Mary Ann shortcake pan and a wire rack for cooling cakes 




For Preparing Vegetables and Garnishes: Front row, left to right — a 
Julienne knife for making Julienne potatoes; an egg sheer; two types of slicers 
for making shoestring or lattice potatoes and potato chips; small scoops for 
making melon and potato balls; vegetable fork and paring knives. Back 
row — a Handy slicer for vegetables; a Roller mincer for parsley, onions, etc.; 
large and small chopping bowls and knives; a rice boiler and potato ricer 



CHAPTER IV 



How to Plan Your Meals 

DON'T you sometimes wonder what you have to show 
( for the time and thought you spend on the family 
meals? Three meals a day, seven days a week — on 
and on, year after year! No business man cares to "plod 
away" unless his work gains significance, and why should you, 
you may have thought resentfully. Yet yours more than any 
other occupation has compensations to offer. 

Look at your children's rosy cheeks and happy dispositions; 
your husband's good health, the general feeling of content and 
happiness that pervades your home. All these are a result of 
your thought and planning, and surely they are worth all the 
energy they cost. 

And you have accomplished all this in spite of the bewildering 
technical information hurled at your devoted head when all you 
needed to know were a few large embracing facts. 

Here they are, then! 

The body needs food for these purposes: (1) To build new 
bone and tissue, (2) to supply energy, (3) to regulate the proc- 
esses of digestion, elimination, respiration and so forth. 

Just which foods are best equipped to do this work are shown 
in the following table: 

WHAT FOODS DO FOR YOU 
These build Bone and Tissue 
Proteins Minerals 

Eggs Poultry Fruits Eggs 

Milk Legumes Vegetables Cereals 

Cheese (peas, beans Meats 

Meat and lentils) Milk 

Fish Nuts 

[39] 



40 T'he zAkt of Rooking and Serving 

These supply Energy 

Fats Carbohydrates — (Starch and Sugar) 

Crisco Cereal foods — breakfast cereal, 

Salad oil rice, hominy, macaroni, 

Cream and butter potatoes 

Nuts Sweets — sugar, candy, sweet 

Fatty meats, bacon, desserts, molasses, syrups, 

sausage, etc. honey 

These regulate Your Body's Processes 
Roughage Mineral Matter 

Coarse breads and cereals Fruits 

Vegetables Vegetables 

Fruit Meats 

Nuts Milk 

Eggs 

Vitamins 
Milk and eggs Raw vegetables (celery, 

Cooked green leafy vegetables tomatoes, cabbage, etc.) 

(chard, spinach, beet tops,etc.) Fruits 

Water 

Do you see how simple this chart makes menu planning? 
Be sure to give your family a food from each of these classifica- 
tions at least once a day if you want them to have a well 
balanced diet. 

An even easier guide to complete nutrition is what is known 
as the "protective diet." Leading physiological chemists have 
proven beyond a doubt that a quart of milk, a cooked leafy 
vegetable and some raw vegetable food in each person s diet 
each day are a complete protection against under-nourishment. 

To make this statement a more practical guide to the plan- 
ning of meals let's say that everyone should eat twice each day 
a salad of some uncooked fruits or vegetables, once each day a 
liberal serving of a cooked green vegetable, and in addition 
not less than a pint (if possible, a quart) of milk or its equivalent. 



JTOW TO 7*LAN YOUR cJWEALS 41 



The reasons for this choice of foods are several. In the first 
place, salads contain vitamins in considerable amounts. Most 
of them also encourage chewing, which helps to keep the teeth 
in good condition. 

The cooked leafy vegetables contain important vitamins, as 
well as necessary mineral elements. 

The milk supplies lime and calcium and other mineral con- 
stituents of the body and is rich in the health-producing vitamin 
A. There are also proteins of high quality. Milk is the only 
food which can adequately supply certain building material for 
the growing child. 

And, so, if this protective scheme is followed, you can serve 
whatever other foods you choose. It does not deprive your 
family of their favorite dishes. 

The "protective diet" is not expensive because the most 
nutritious vegetables are often quite low priced. Green cab- 
bage, for instance, contains all three vitamins and the important 
mineral salts. It is also valuable for its "roughage" qualities, 
which keep the intestines scoured out and in a healthy condition. 
Other cheap but nutritious vegetables are spinach, kale, toma- 
toes, yellow turnips, yellow squash and carrots. These are all 
within the scope of every family's budget and one or another 
of them should not fail to appear on the menu every day. 

If you have raw fruit for breakfast or serve it as dessert for 
luncheon or dinner you need not have two salads that day; 
one will be sufficient. The point is to get some raw food into 
your diet, and salads seem a safe and popular way of getting it. 

In some localities salad greens, such as lettuce and romaine, 
may not be obtainable at all seasons, but fortunately cabbage, 
one of the most nutritious and economical salad plants, can 
always be had. It is delicious shredded and served very crisp 
and cold with cooked or mayonnaise dressing. Or it can be 
used as the foundation for other more hearty salads. 

It may sound more difficult to carry out the "quart of milk" 
schedule, but when you consider the many ways other than 
drinking that milk can be included in the diet, it is not 60 
formidable as it sounds. Cereals use lots of milk, as do cream 



42 The c/rt of Rooking and Serving 

soups. Vegetables, meat and fish served in white sauce are 
a means of getting a little into the diet and there are many- 
desserts such as baked custards, blanc mange, ice creams, 
tapioca, rice and bread puddings, which are made almost 
entirely of milk. 

Evaporated milk, diluted with water, or milk powder may- 
be substituted for fresh milk in cooking if desired, but will not 
take the place of whole milk as a beverage for children. 

Besides providing proper nourishment the ideal meal should 
furnish variety in flavor, texture, form and color. Eye appeal 
is almost synonymous with appetite appeal, and a meal con- 
sisting of cream of celery soup, creamed chicken, mashed 
potatoes, cauliflower and baked custard might fulfill all nutri- 
tion requirements but would be so monotonous in appearance 
that it would completely fail in its mission. Some sharp 
contrast in flavor, like currant jelly, and in texture, like crisp, 
green lettuce, would add much to the interest of this meal. 

When there are left-overs to be used up, plan to disguise 
them. Souffles and croquettes are not recognizable as Sunday's 
roast, and crisp fritters with cheese sauce will be spurned by no 
one even if they are the survivors of last night's vegetables. 
And whenever your ingenuity fails look into this little book for 
friendly help. 

{Seasonable menus will be found on pages 220 to 231. They 
are based on the j ore going principles and will prove suggestive 
both j or hot and cold weather.} 




To measure flour or any dry ingredient accurately heap up the 
material in a cup and then level it off with a knife or spatula 




To measure quarter or half spoonfuls of 
Crisco or dry ingredients when one d 
possess a set of measuring spoons s 
in Chapter III, level off an ordinary spoon- 
ful with a knife, cut lengthwise through the 
center to make a half spoonful, and again 
crosswise {as shown in illustration) for a 
quarter spoonful 



CHAPTER V 



Deep Fat Frying 



FRYING is the one phase of cooking of which the average 
housewife has still a lot to learn. Either she fries food 
haphazardly, ignorant of the scientific principles back of 
the process, and with sad results to her family's digestions; or, 
believing that all fried foods are indigestible, she veers to the 
other extreme and entirely avoids frying. 

Of deep fat frying she oftens knows nothing. And yet 
foods, properly fried, have a savor and delicacy which almost 
no other form of cooking can develop, and they hold no terrors 
for the digestion. In that one word, "properly," lies the 
whole secret. 

One cannot speak of frying without differentiating between 
the two forms of frying, sauteing and frying in deep fat. 
They are two distinct methods, each with its fine points. 
Sauteing is cooking in a small amount of hot fat; deep fat fry- 
ing means cooking in a kettle of hot fat, in which the food is 
immersed. In both of these forms of frying the French are 
past masters and this is one of the reasons why their food has 
such delicacy, flavor and variety. 

The sauteing method is frequently used to sear over the out- 
side of meat and poultry which are to be cooked in water, as 
for stews, fricassees and meat pies, the hot Crisco causing a 
coating to be formed over the surface which prevents loss of 
flavor in the process of stewing or simmering. Fish cakes, 
hash and fried eggs are just a few of the familiar foods cooked 
by this method. Fritters and croquettes may also be sauteed if 
preferred, but the appearance is not quite so perfect as when 
cooked in deep fat and the food is more likely to absorb Crisco, 
so the latter method is recommended in this book. 

[44] 




Roil the food to be fried in crumbs y then dip it into beaten egg, and 
once again in the crumbs 



Certain fish cut in small pieces, such as fillets, and thin fish, 
like butter fish, are usually sauteed instead of cooked in deep 
Crisco. Just as for deep frying the Crisco should be hot — but 
not smoking — when the food is put into it. 

To wipe out that bugaboo of the indigestibility of anything 
that is fried, one must keep in mind two cautions, first — as t<> 
the kind of fat used for frying and the way it is used; second 
as to the preparation of the food to be fried. A fact to be 
learned by heart is that when fat begins to smoke it begins to 
decompose. It then tends to become less digestible and to lose 
some of its nutritive value. Crisco does not smoke at proper 
frying temperatures. There is no reason, therefore, why it 
should be heated to the decomposition point. 

In frying, the hot Crisco seals the surface of the food im- 
mediately, thereby preventing sogginess and grease soaking. 
Crisco fried foods are crisp and crusty on the surface, well 
cooked inside. They are readily digestible not only because 
they are properly cooked but because the new super-creamed 
Crisco in itself is readily digestible. 

Various fine points are worth remembering in preparing food 
to be fried in deep fat. "Egging and crumbing/' for instance, 

[45] 




When rolling out doughnuts take care to have dough stiff enough so 

that you will need very little flour on the board, as this extra flour is 

likely to cook off in frying fat and discolor it 



prevent fat from being absorbed by the food, because heat 
coagulates egg proteins and quickly forms a protective coating 
through which grease cannot penetrate. Such foods as oysters, 
scallops, croquettes and cutlets are always dipped in egg and 
crumbs before frying. 

The egg for this purpose should be beaten slightly and mixed 
with two tablespoons of water. For the crumbs use dried 
bread, rolled out and sifted, or you can buy crumbs in a pack- 
age if you have no stale bread on hand. Roll the food to be 
fried in the crumbs, then dip it into the egg mixture and roll 
again in crumbs. This makes a heavy coating and a crisp, 
tender outside crust is formed when the food comes in contact 
with hot Crisco. A second important point is that foods for 
frying should be as dry as possible before they are put into the 
kettle. If you soak French fried potatoes in cold water before 
frying — as you should to remove some of the starch — dry them 
thoroughly in a clean towel before dropping them into the 
Crisco. This makes them wonderfully crisp and tender. 

The vessel for deep fat frying should contain enough Crisco 
to float the food without being so full that it will bubble over. 
Also it is essential to drain all fried foods as they are taken 

[46] 




Be sure Crisco is the proper temperature before putting in the dough- 
nuts. It may be necessary to reheat the fat before starting each batch 



from the hot Crisco. This is easily done by dropping them 
into a pan lined with unglazed paper. 

With these few definite facts in mind a housewife can suc- 
cessfully add to her culinary program a number of dishes which 
lend a welcome variety to the family menus. Not only does 
deep fat frying open up new and interesting avenues in cook- 
ing, but it offers ways for subtly disguising and utilizing left- 
overs which the family might otherwise reject. It is a very 
economical process as well, because it means short cooking with 
a consequent saving of time and fuel. And one more point in 
its favor — food immersed in hot fat has all of its juices closed in 
and so retains its full flavor. 

Crisco which has been used for frying is not discarded but 
may be used again and again without losing its sweetness. It 
should be cooled rather rapidly, not left to simmer indefinitely 
on the back of the stove. On the other hand it should not be 
plunged into the ice box, but merely set in some cool pi 
When partly cooled, it should be strained through a fine sieve 
or cheesecloth to free it from any particles of 1 

[471 




Pour a little of the timbale batter in a cup {fill about half full). Dip 

the heated timbale iron into it until the iron is nearly covered with 

the batter^ then dip immediately into the hot fat. (See recipe for 

Swedish Timbales, page 61) 



Iflater any taste or odor should be discerned in Crisco which 
has been used for frying, it is safe to prophesy that particles of 
food, which should have been carefully strained out, have been 
left in it to become stale and rancid. 

Clarify Crisco more thoroughly by occasionally melting it 
over a gentle heat. When melted drop in slices of raw potato, 
allowing them to cook slowly until brown. The potato, being 
porous, will absorb small particles of food material. The 
Crisco should then be strained through a double thickness of 
cheesecloth and allowed to cool quickly. The fact that Crisco 
can be used so many times makes it very economical. 

One should not keep Crisco in the ice box. It does not be- 
come rancid in average temperature. 



SUCCESS SECRETS 

1. Never allow Crisco to get hot enough to smoke. 

2. Do not fill frying kettle more than two-thirds full of Crisco. 

3. Allow Crisco to heat gradually, starting it in a cold utensil. 

[481 



Deep /at /ryinc 



49 



4. Use a wire basket, fitting loosely into the kettle, to lift 
food in and out of the hot fat. A long handled slit spoon 
or skimmer will serve the purpose if you haven't a basket. 

5. Do not attempt to cook too much food in the fat at one 
time. Always test the temperature of the fat just before 
adding each batch of food. 

6. When food is cooked remove it immediately and drain 
on unglazed paper to absorb any excess fat. 

7. Always strain Crisco after using; then cool it quickly. 

8. Be sure that all food to be fried, which has been previously 
washed or soaked in cold water, is thoroughly dried. 

9. When testing the temperature of hot fat with a thermom- 
eter hold it in the center of the kettle so that the mercury 
bulb is covered but does not touch the bottom. 

10. If a thermometer for testing temperature of fat is not 
available, use the following tests with a cube of soft bread : 



TEMPERATURE 


BREAD TEST 


KIND OF FOOD 


340°F.-375°F. 


Cube of bread turns 
light brown in 50 
to 60 seconds 


Uncooked mixtures as 
doughnuts and fritters, 
also small pieces of raw 
foods, as oysters, 
clams, etc. 


375°F.-400°F. 


Cube of bread turns 
light brown in 40 to 
50 seconds 


Previously cooked 
mixtures as croquettes, 
fish cakes, also French 
fried potatoes, potato 
chips 



11. Cook frequently in deep, hot Crisco. It is an economical 
method of cooking, as well as a means of bringing delicious, 
digestible foods to your table. 



50 The <s/rt of Rooking and Jerving 



APPLE FRITTERS 

1 cup flour 1 2 teaspoon salt 
\}4 teaspoons baking powder }o cup milk 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 egg 

5 or 6 tart apples 
Mix and sift flour, baking powder, sugar and salt. Add milk and well-beaten 
egg. Mix well. Pare and core apples. Cut in sections. Dip each piece of 
apple in the batter and fry in deep hot Crisco until brown. Drain on unglazed 
paper and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

BANANA FRITTERS 

Peel bananas. Cut through lengthwise and again in pieces 13^2 to 2 inches 
long. Follow recipe for Apple Fritters. 

PINEAPPLE FRITTERS 

Cut pineapple in suitable sized pieces. Follow recipe for Apple Fritters. 

PEACH OR APRICOT FRITTERS 

Cut halves of peach or apricot in quarters. Follow recipe for Apple Fritters. 

ORANGE FRITTERS 

Separate sections of orange. Follow recipe for Apple Fritters. 

FRIED BANANAS 

Remove skins from 5 bananas, cut in halves lengthwise and crosswise. Sprinkle 
with salt and lemon juice. Dip in flour, then in slightly beaten egg, diluted 
with 2 tablespoons water. Roll in fine crumbs and fry in deep hot Crisco 
3 or 4 minutes or until brown. Drain on unglazed paper. Serve with roast 
meats. 

CHEESE BALLS 

}/2 pound grated American cheese Y% teaspoon salt 

2 cups soft bread crumbs Few grains cayenne 

3 eggs ^ 1 egg 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 2 tablespoons water 

} 2 cup dry bread crumbs 
Mix cheese, crumbs, 3 beaten eggs, Worcestershire sauce, salt and cayenne. 
Form into balls. Dip in slightly beaten egg diluted with water, roll in crumbs 
and fry in deep hot Crisco until a delicate brown. Drain on unglazed paper. 
Serve hot with Tomato Sauce (page 116). 



Deep /at Jurying 51 



FRIED CREAMS 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon Crisco 

Y2 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

6 tablespoons flour % cup tine dried bread crumbs 
J4 teaspoon salt 1 egg 

2 cups scalded milk 2 tablespoons water 

Beat 2 eggs and add sugar, flour, salt and milk. Mix well and cook over hot 
water until thick, stirring constantly. Remove from fire, add Crisco and cool 
slightly. Add vanilla. Pour into a small greased pan to % inch thic \ 
Put in ice box over night. Cut into pieces 2 inches long and 1 inch wide. Roll 
each piece in crumbs, dip in beaten egg diluted with water and roll again in 
crumbs. Fry in deep hot Crisco until a delicate brown. Drain on unglazed 
paper. Serve with powdered sugar or maple syrup. 



CROUTONS 

Cut stale bread in thick slices. Remove the crust and cut bread in small 
cubes. Drop in deep hot Crisco and fry until a delicate brown. Remove with 
a skimmer and drain on unglazed paper. Serve a few croutons in each portion 
of soup. 



CROUSTADES 

Cut stale bread in 2J/£ inch slices, and the slices in squares, oblongs or circles. 
Scoop out the centers with a fork leaving cases 34 inch thick. Fry in deep hot 
Crisco until a delicate brown. Drain on unglazed paper. Fill with creamed 
vegetables, meat or fish. 



FRENCH CRULLERS 

4 tablespoons sugar 1 teaspoon grated orange rind 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup hot watt r 

4 tablespoons Crisco 1 cup flour 

3 eggs 

Put sugar, salt, Crisco, orange rind and water in a saucepan. Bring to the 
boiling point, add flour and mix well. Cook until thick, stirring constantly. 
Cool slightly. Add one egg at a time, beating hard after each egg is added. 
Press through a pastry bag, using a rose tube, onto a well-greased sqtu 
heavy paper, one at a time. Turn paper upside down to let cruller drop into 
deep hot Crisco and fry 6 to 7 minutes or until will puffed up and a delicate 
brown in color. Ice with Confectioners' Frosting (pa 

This recipe makes 18 crullers. 



52 The c/rt of Rooking and ^erving 



DOUGHNUTS 

}/% cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1J/2 tablespoons Crisco J/g teaspoon cinnamon 

1 egg }/$ teaspoon clove 
J£ cup milk t$ teaspoon mace 

2 cups flour ]/2 teaspoon salt 

Cream sugar and Crisco together. Add well-beaten egg and milk and mix 
well. Mix and sift flour, baking powder, cinnamon, clove, mace and salt. 
Add to the rirst mixture and mix thoroughly. Turn out on slightly floured 
board and roll to l /i inch thickness. Cut with a doughnut cutter and fry in 
deep hot Crisco until a delicate brown. Drain on unglazed paper. Sprinkle 
with confectioners' sugar before serving. 
This recipe makes 24 doughnuts. 



RAISED DOUGHNUTS 

% cup sugar 1 yeast cake 

3 tablespoons Crisco 2 tablespoons lukewarm water 

1 teaspoon salt 5 cups flour 

1 cup scalded milk 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon nutmeg 
Add sugar, Crisco and salt to the scalded milk. When lukewarm add the 
yeast cake mixed with warm water. Add enough flour to make a sponge 
(about 2 cups). Set in a warm place to rise. When light add well-beaten eggs, 
nutmeg and enough flour to make a soft dough. Cover and let rise until double 
in bulk. Knead until free from large air bubbles. Roll out on a slightly 
floured board to l /i inch thickness. Cut with a doughnut cutter, cover and set 
in a warm place to rise again until double in bulk. Put them top side down in 
deep hot Crisco. Fry on one side, turn and fry on the other side. When a 
delicate brown remove from fat and drain on unglazed paper. Just before 
serving sprinkle with confectioners' sugar. 
This recipe makes 30 doughnuts. 



PRUNE DOUGHNUTS 

Follow recipe for Raised Doughnuts. After the second rising, roll out on a 
slightly floured board to }/g inch thickness. Cut with a cooky cutter. Put a 
teaspoon of prune mixture in the center of one round. Moisten edge, cover 
with another round and press edges together. Cover and set in a warm place 
to rise until double in bulk. Fry in the same way as Raised Doughnuts. 



PRUNE MIXTURE 

Soak x /2 pound prunes over night. Cook until soft. Drain off liquid. Remove 
stones and cut in small pieces. Add the grated rind of 1 lemon and 2 teaspoons 
of lemon juice. 



Deep JFat Jurying 53 



JELLY DOUGHNUTS 

Follow recipe for Raised Doughnuts. After the second rising, roll out on a 
slightly floured board to }/$ inch thickness. Cut with a cooky cutter. Put 1 
teaspoon currant jelly in the center of one round, moisten edges with water 
and place another round on top. Press edges lightly together. Cover and 
set in a warm place to rise until double in bulk. Fry in the same way as 
Raised Doughnuts. 
This recipe makes 24 doughnuts. 

FRIED PIES 

Follow recipe for Plain Pastry (page 178) made with }/£ cup Crisco. Roll out 
pastry to }/$ inch thickness. Cut in large circles. Put a tablespoon of seasoned 
apple sauce in center of pastry. Moisten edges with cold water. Fold over 
so as to make a semi-circle. Press edges together with tines of a fork. Fry in 
deep hot Crisco until a delicate brown. 

BEEF CUTLETS 

2 cups chopped cold beef 1 cup very thick white sauce 

}/2 teaspoon onion juice 1 egg 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 2 tablespoons water 

% cup fine bread crumbs 
Put beef through meat grinder. Add onion juice, parsley, and hot White 
Sauce (page 113), and mix well. Season more if necessary. Chill. Form into 
cutlets. Roll in crumbs, dip in slightly beaten egg diluted with water, and roll 
again in crumbs. Fry in deep hot Crisco about 5 minutes. Drain on un- 
glazed paper. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

2 cups chopped cold chicken 1 cup very thick white sauce 
2 tablespoons finely chopped celery 1 egg 

Few grains nutmeg 2 tablespoons water 

% cup fine bread crumbs 
Put chicken through meat grinder. Add celery, nutmeg and hot White Sauce 
(page 113), and mix well. Season more if necessary. Chill. Form into cro- 
quettes or cutlets. Roll in crumbs, dip in slightly beaten egg diluted with 
water, and roll again in crumbs. Fry in deep hot Crisco about 5 minutes. 
Drain on unglazed paper. 

(J/£ cup chopped cooked mushrooms may be added to this recipe if desired.) 

EGG CROQUETTES 

Follow recipe for very thick White Sauce (page 113). Add to it 4 hard D 
eggs, chopped fine, l A teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley. Chill. 
Shape into croquettes, of any size or form. Roll each in fine dried I 
crumbs, dip in well-beaten egg diluted with 2 tablespoons cold water, and roll 
again in crumbs. Fry in deep hot Crisco until a delicate brown. Drain on 
unglazed paper. Serve hot with Cheese Sauce (page 114) or Tomato Sauce 
(page 116). 



54 The <^rt of £ ooking and Jerving 



LAMB CROQUETTES 

2 cups chopped cold lamb 1 egg 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley 2 tablespoons water 

1 cup very thick white sauce % cup fine bread crumbs 

Put lamb through meat grinder. Add parsley, and hot White Sauce (page 113), 
and mix well. Season more if necessary. Chill. Form into croquettes. 
Roll in crumbs, dip in slightly beaten egg diluted with water, and roll again in 
crumbs. Fry in deep hot Crisco about 5 minutes. Drain on unglazed paper. 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES 

2 cups cold lobster 1 cup very thick white sauce 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 1 egg 

2 tablespoons finely chopped celery 2 tablespoons water 

% cup fine bread crumbs 
Chop lobster, add parsley, celery and hot White Sauce (page 113), and mix 
well. Season more if necessary. Chill. Form into croquettes or cutlets. 
Roll in crumbs, dip in slightly beaten egg diluted with water, and roll again in 
crumbs. Fry in deep hot Crisco about 5 minutes. Drain on unglazed paper. 

SALMON CROQUETTES 

2 cups cold salmon 1 cup very thick white sauce 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley 1 egg 

Y2 teaspoon lemon juice 2 tablespoons water 

% cup fine bread crumbs 

Flake salmon, add parsley, lemon juice, hot White Sauce (page 113), and 

mix well. Season more if necessary. Chill. Form into croquettes or cutlets. 

Roll in crumbs, dip in slightly beaten egg diluted with water, and roll again in 

crumbs. Fry in deep hot Crisco about 5 minutes. Drain on unglazed paper. 

VEAL CROQUETTES 

2 cups chopped cold veal 1 egg 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley 2 tablespoons water 

1 cup very thick white sauce % cup fine bread crumbs 

Put veal through meat grinder. Add parsley and White Sauce (page 113), and 
mix well. Season more if necessary. Chill. Form into croquettes. Roll in 
crumbs, dip in slightly beaten egg diluted with water, and roll again in crumbs. 
Fry in deep hot Crisco about 5 minutes. Drain on unglazed paper. 

SOFT SHELL CRABS 

Remove the eyes and the stomach (the soft portion under the eyes) if this 
has not already been done. Wash and dry the crabs. Dip in flour seasoned 
with salt and pepper. To one egg add 2 tablespoons water and beat slightly. 
Dip crabs in egg, then in fine, sifted bread crumbs and fry in deep hot Crisco 
5 to 8 minutes. Drain on unglazed paper. Serve with parsley and slices of 
lemon. 



Deep ^at jurying 55 



FRIED CLAMS 

1 pint clams Flour 

Salt 1 egg 

Pepper 2 tablespoons water 

cup cracker or stale bread crumbs 

Pick over clams and remove pieces of shell. Dry between towels. Sprinkle 
with salt, pepper and flour. Dip in slightly beaten egg diluted with water, 
and roll in crumbs. Fry in deep hot Crisco about 5 minutes. Drain on un- 
glazed paper. 

FRIED CLAMS IN BATTER 

1 pint clams 34 cup milk 

2 eggs 34 CU P clam liquor 
1 teaspoon salt 1 cup flour 

y$ teaspoon pepper 3^ teaspoon baking powder 

Pick over clams and remove pieces of shell. Dry between towels. Beat eggs, 
and add salt, pepper, milk and clam liquor. Mix and sift the flour and baking 
powder, add the liquid mixture and beat until well mixed. Dip clams in the 
batter, and fry in deep hot Crisco about 5 minutes. Drain on unglazed paper. 



CLAM FRITTERS 

1 cup flour }4 CU P milk 

34 teaspoon salt 34 CU P c lam juice 

J/g teaspoon pepper 1 dozen clams, cleaned and 

2 eggs chopped 

1 teaspoon melted Crisco 

Mix and sift flour, salt and pepper. Add beaten eggs, milk and clam juice 
and mix until smooth. Add Crisco ar>d clams and mix well. Drop by table- 
spoons in deep hot Crisco and fry about 5 minutes or until brown. Drain on 
unglazed paper and serve with Tartar Mayonnaise (page 140). 



CODFISH BALLS 

6 medium sized potatoes 

2 cups shredded salt cod m pepper 

up milk 

Pare potatoes and boil in unsalted water. Drain and mash. Add codfish 
and unbeaten eggs, one at a time, and mix wcD. Add pepper and milk and 
beat until mixture is light and fluffy. Drop by tablespoons in deep hot Crisco 
and cook 10 to 12 minutes or until brown. Drain on unglazed pa; 
very hot. 

This recipe makes about 24 hsh balls. 



56 The <^rt of Rooking and Serving 



FRIED EELS 

Skin eels. Split down middle and clean. Cut in 3 inch lengths and wipe dry. 
Roll in crumbs, dip in slightly beaten egg diluted with 2 tablespoons water, and 
roll again in crumbs. Fry in deep hot Crisco 6 to 8 minutes. Garnish with 
parsley and slices of lemon. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

1 pint oysters Flour 

Salt 1 egg 

Pepper 2 tablespoons water 

J/2 cup cracker or stale bread crumbs 
Pick over oysters and remove pieces of shell. Dry between towels. Sprinkle 
with salt, pepper and flour. Dip in slightly beaten egg diluted with water and 
roll in crumbs. Fry in deep hot Crisco about 5 minutes. Drain on unglazed 
paper and serve hot with Tartar Mayonnaise (page 140). 

FRIED OYSTERS IN BATTER 

1 pint oysters }/i cup milk 

2 eggs 34 CU P oyster liquor 
1 teaspoon salt 1 cup flour 

Y% teaspoon pepper 3^ teaspoon baking powder 

Pick over oysters and remove pieces of shell. Dry between towels. Beat 
eggs and add salt, pepper, milk and oyster liquor. Mix and sift flour and 
baking powder and stir the liquid into it. Beat until well mixed. Dip oysters 
in batter. Drop in deep hot Crisco and cook about 5 minutes. Drain on 
unglazed paper and serve hot, garnished with parsley and slices of lemon. 

OYSTER FRITTERS 

1 cup flour 34 CU P m ilk 

34 teaspoon salt 34 CU P oyster liquor 

3^8 teaspoon pepper 1 dozen oysters, cleaned and 

2 eggs chopped 

1 teaspoon melted Crisco 
Mix and sift flour, salt and pepper. Add beaten eggs, milk and oyster liquor. 
Mix until smooth. Add Crisco and oysters and mix well. Drop by tablespoons 
in deep hot Crisco and fry about 5 minutes or until brown. Drain on un- 
glazed paper. 

FRIED SCALLOPS 

1 quart scallops Flour 

Salt 1 egg 

Pepper 2 tablespoons water 

% cup fine bread or cracker crumbs 
Wash scallops and dry between towels. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour. 
Dip in slightly beaten egg diluted with water and roll in crumbs. Fry in deep 
hot Crisco about 5 minutes. Drain on unglazed paper and garnish with slices 
of crisp bacon and watercress. 



Deep /at Drying 



FRIED SMELTS 

13^2 pounds smelts 1 egg 

Salt 2 tablespoons water 

Pepper ? 4 cup fine bread crumbs 

Wash the smelts and make a slight opening at the gills with a sharp knife or 
scissors. Draw them between the thumb and finger from tail to head to press 
the intestines out at the gill opening, keeping the fish whole. Wash and dry 
and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Dip in crumbs, then in slightly beaten ep£ 
diluted with water, and again in crumbs. Fry in deep hot Crisco 3 to 5 min- 
utes. Drain on unglazed paper and serve with Tartar Mayonnaise (paj:e 140). 



FRENCH FRIED CALVES LIVER 

Soak 1 pound calves' liver in salt water % hour. Scald with boilinp water. 
Drain and cut in 3 inch strips. Moisten with French Dressing (pap 
let stand 1 hour. Drain. Dry, and fry in deep hot Crisco 3 to 5 minutes. 
Drain on unglazed paper. Garnish with crisp bacon and serve hot. 

VEGETABLE FRITTERS 

\% cups flour l A cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt l A cup cooked carrots, chopped 
Few grains pepper V± cup cooked peas 

3}/£ teaspoons baking powder l /i cup cooked lima beans 

2 eggs 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

2 tablespoons melted Crisco 

Mix and sift flour, salt, pepper and baking powder. Beat eggs and add milk. 
Add to the flour mixture and beat thoroughly. Add carrots, peas, lima beans, 
parsley and Crisco and mix well. Drop by tablespoons into deep hot ( 
and fry until a delicate brown. Drain on brown paper. Serve hot with 
Cheese Sauce (page 114). 



FRIED CARROTS 

Cut off small tips of cooked carrots. Cut in halves or quarters, accord 
the size of the carrot. Dip pieces in milk, and roll in flour until thor< 
covered. Fry in deep hot Crisco until a delicate brown. Drain on unglazed 
paper. Sprinkle with salt and serve hot. 



FRENCH FRIED ONIONS 

Cut 4 or 5 Bermuda onions in thin slices. Fry in deep hoi 
Drain on unglazed paper. Sprinkle with salt. 




'Parsnip Puffi (Recipe on page 60) 




8gg Qroquettei (Recipe on page 53) 



Deep J^at jurying 59 



POTATO PUFFS 

3 medium sized potatoes 2 egj 

Y2 CU P boiling water 1 teaspoon salt 

Y2 cup Crisco I jj teaspoon pepper 
3^ cup flour Few grains nutmeg 

Pare potatoes and cook in boiling salted water. When done put through a 
ricer or coarse sieve. Put water and Crisco over the rire and bring to boiling 
point. Add flour and cook, stirring constantly until the mixture leaves the 
sides of the pan. Cool. Add eggs one at a time, beating well after ea h egg 
is added. Add potatoes to this mixture with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Season 
more if necessary. Drop by tablespoons in hot Crisco and fry 8 to 10 minutes 
or until brown. Drain on unglazed paper. 
This recipe makes 9 puffs. 



FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 

Pare 5 or 6 potatoes. Cut in strips 3^2 mc b thick and soak in cold or ice water 
1 hour. Drain. Dry between towels and fry in deep hot Crisco until a delicate 
brown. Drain on unglazed paper. Sprinkle with salt. 



SARATOGA CHIPS 

Pare 5 or 6 potatoes. With a sharp knife or potato cutter cut in very thin 
slices, crosswise. Soak in cold or ice water J^ to 1 hour. Drain. Dry be- 
tween towels and fry in deep hot Crisco until a delicate brown. Drain on 
unglazed paper. Sprinkle with salt. These may be served hot or cold. 



SHOESTRING OR JULIENNE POTATOES 

Pare 5 or 6 potatoes. Cut in 34 inch strips making them as uniform as possible 
in size and length. Soak in cold or ice water ^ to 1 hour. Drain. Dry be- 
tween towels and fry in deep hot Crisco until a delicate brown. Drain on 
unglazed paper and sprinkle with salt. 



POTATO SURPRISE 

2 cups seasoned mashed potato 1 egg 

1 cup cooked peas 2 tablespoons w 

}/2 cup thick white sauce 1 cup fine dry bread crumbs 

Form potato into cups, molding them in the palm o{ the band and patting the 
potato to an even thickness. Add the peas to the White Sauce (page 1 1 ; 
place a spoonful of the mixture in the center o\' each one ami .lose the hand 
around it, putting a little mashed potato on top to entirely cover the peas. 
Roll balls in crumbs, then in beaten egg diluted with water, and again in 
crumbs. Fry in deep hot Crisco until brown. 



60 The cyfRT of Rooking and Serving 



POTATO FRITTERS 

3 cups hot mashed potato Few grains pepper 

2 tablespoons Crisco 2 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 teaspoon sugar 2 eggs 

To the potatoes add Crisco, salt, sugar, pepper, flour and parsley. Add beaten 
egg yolks and mix well. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Drop by table- 
spoons in deep hot Crisco and fry 5 to 8 minutes or until a delicate brown. 
Drain on unglazed paper. Serve hot. 

FRENCH FRIED SWEET POTATOES 

Parboil 4 or 5 large sweet potatoes for 10 minutes. Peel and cut in strips, 
3 inches long. Fry in deep hot Crisco until a delicate brown. Drain on un- 
glazed paper. Sprinkle with salt. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES 

2 cups hot mashed sweet potato 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 tablespoons Crisco 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon salt Y2 CU P ^ ne bread crumbs 
3^8 teaspoon pepper 2 tablespoons water 

Mix sweet potato with Crisco, salt, pepper, sugar and one well-beaten egg. 
Beat well. If mixture is too stifT, add a little hot milk. Shape into croquettes. 
Roll in crumbs, dip in beaten egg diluted with water, and roll again in crumbs. 
Fry in deep hot Crisco until brown and drain on unglazed paper. 
A nice accompaniment to baked ham. 

PARSNIP PUFFS 

5 parsnips Few grains pepper 

3 tablespoons milk 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons Crisco, melted 2 tablespoons water 

1 teaspoon salt }/£ CU P dried bread crumbs 
Cook parsnips in boiling salted water until tender. Drain and mash and add 
milk, Crisco, salt and pepper. Add one beaten egg. Set aside to cool. Shape 
into small balls. Roll in crumbs, then in beaten egg diluted with water and 
again in crumbs. Fry in deep hot Crisco until brown. Drain on unglazed paper. 

FRIED RICE CAKES 

2 cups boiled rice Yl teaspoon salt 

1 egg Few grains nutmeg 

2 tablespoons flour 3^2 CU P hue bread crumbs 
1 teaspoon baking powder 1 egg yolk 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 tablespoons water 

Mix rice, beaten egg, flour, baking powder, sugar, salt and nutmeg. Mix well. 
Form into balls. Roll in fine bread crumbs, then in beaten egg yolk diluted 
with water, and again in crumbs. Fry in deep hot Crisco until a delicate brown. 
Drain on unglazed paper and serve with jelly, Cheese Sauce (page 114), or 
Tomato Sauce (page 116). 



Deep /at Jurying 61 



SWEDISH TIMBALES 

1 cup flour ;3 cup milk 

Y2 teaspoon salt 1 egg 

Y2 teaspoon sugar 1 tablespoon melted Crisco 

Mix and sift the flour, salt and sugar. Add milk gradually and slightly beaten 
egg. Add melted Crisco and beat until mixture is smooth. Put a little batter 
in a cup. Put timbale iron in melted Crisco and heat Crisco until hot enough 
for frying. Remove iron from the Crisco and dip in batter nearly to top. (See 
page 48.) Return again to the hot Crisco and fry 1 to 2 minutes or until batter 
is a delicate brown. If iron is too hot or too cool the batter will drop off the iron. 

This recipe makes 18 to 20 small timbales. 



CHAPTER VI 



Soups 



THERE are two good reasons for serving soup. First, 
soup can be an appetizer to stimulate the appetite and 
aid digestion; and second, it can be an actual part of the 
meal, in which case it must be high in nutritive qualities. The 
real value of soup lies in this second use. 

To the first or appetizer group belong the clear soups, con- 
sommes and bouillons. The latter would be served as the first 
course of a heavy dinner or luncheon. In the second or nutri- 
tive group are included all the milk and cream soups, bisques 
and chowders which are intended to accompany lighter meals 
or to be served as a main course for luncheon or supper. 

Many American housewives throw away the water in which 
vegetables are cooked. In this water mineral elements and 
valuable vitamins are held in solution, and when you throw it 
away you are actually disposing of a certain amount of health. 
So, save it, and use it later for cream soups. 

The best method of making cream soup is to combine the 
desired vegetable stock with a white sauce of the proper con- 
sistency. A most delicious white sauce, rich and absolutely 
smooth, is made with the new super-creamed Crisco. Crisco, 
melted, blends easily with flour so that as the milk is added an 
even-textured sauce results. And is there anything worse than 
lumps of "thickening" in soup? 

The following recipes for cream soups have been worked 
out in chart form to make them easy for you to use. If you 
learn to make one of these soups well, you will be able to make 
all of them well and to add others of your own choosing if you 
like. Almost any combination of left over vegetables and the 
water in which they are cooked may be prepared in the same 
way. 

[62] 




Qhcese 'Balls (Recipe on page 5c) 




fried Qarrott (Recipe on 



64 The c/rt of Rooking and Serving 

SUCCESS SECRETS 

1. Never throw away the water in which meat or vegetables 
are cooked — save it for soup. 

2. Save small amounts of left over vegetables. They may 
be combined and cooked together to make delicious 
cream soups. 

3. Prepare your cream soups ahead of time and reheat them 
just before serving in a double boiler. This will relieve 
you of so much "last minute" cooking. 

4. In blending ingredients for white sauce be sure that Crisco 
and flour are well mixed before adding the liquid. 

5. Mutton is too strongly flavored to be used as a basis for 
soup stock. Disguise it by combining it with other meats 
and vegetables whenever it is to be used. 

6. Use the tougher cuts of meat for soup making, such as 
shoulder, neck, flank, tail and shin. These parts are 
better flavored as w-ell as more economical to buy. 

7. Keep your stock pot perfectly sweet and clean. Empty it 
often, wash thoroughly and let stand in the sun to dry. 

8. Serve soup very hot in heated soup plates or bouillon cups. 



THIN WHITE SAUCE 

2 tablespoons Crisco 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour J/g teaspoon pepper 

2 cups milk 
Melt Crisco, add flour, salt and pepper and mix well. Add milk slowly and 
bring to the boiling point, stirring constantly to avoid lumping. Keep hot 
over boiling water until ready to combine with vegetable mixture. 

MEDIUM WHITE SAUCE 

2 tablespoons Crisco 1 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons flour y% teaspoon pepper 

2 cups milk 
Melt Crisco, add flour, salt and pepper and mix well. Add milk slowly and 
bring to the boiling point, stirring constantly to avoid lumping. Keep hot 
over boiling water until ready to combine with vegetable mixture. 



Jours 65 



CREAM SOUPS 
Made with Thin White Sauce 

Cream of Corn Soup. Cook 2 cups fresh cooked or canned corn with 1 cup 
water, 1 slice onion, 1 teaspoon sugar and l 4 teaspoon salt in a saucepan 20 
minutes. Press through a sieve, mix with the white sauce and add 1 ] L > table- 
spoons chopped parsley. Serve hot. 

Cream of Pea Soup. Cook 2 cups fresh cooked or canned peas with 1 ] 
water, 1 o teaspoon sugar, }± teaspoon salt and 1 slice onion in a saucepan 15 
minutes. Press through a sieve and add to the white sauce. Serve hot. 
Cream of Cauliflower Soup. Cook 1 small head of cauliflower, broken into 
pieces, 1 stalk celery, cut in pieces, 1 slice onion, l /2 teaspoon salt in enough 
water to cover until cauliflower is tender. Strain and save l'_» cups 
Press cauliflower through a sieve and add with the stock to the white sauce. 
Serve hot. 

Cream of Asparagus Soup. Cook 1 bunch of asparanus with 2 table- 
spoons chopped onion and l o teaspoon salt in boiling water until tips are 
tender. Strain and save l 1 ■£ cups stock. Cut off tips, press through a 
and add pulp and stock to the white sauce. Serve hot. 

Cream of Potato Soup. Cut 3 medium-sized potatoes in halves and cook 
with 1 slice onion, 1 stalk celery, cut in pieces, and J2 teaspoon salt in 3 cups 
boiling water. When tender, strain and save 2 cups stock. Press potatoes 
through a sieve and add stock and pulp to the white sauce. Sprinkle with 3 
tablespoons chopped parsley. Serve hot. 

CREAM SOUPS 
Made with Medium White Sauce 

Cream of Tomato Soup. Cook 2 cups stewed or canned tomatoes. 

water, 2 teaspoons sugar, 2 whole cloves, }£ teaspoon salt and 1 tablespoon 

chopped onion in a saucepan 20 minutes. Strain and add x \ teaspoon soda. 

Stir well and pour into the hot white sauce. Serve immediately. 

Cream of Celery Soup. Cut into small pieces the tops and stalks of 1 

small bunch of celery. Put in a saucepan with 5 cups cold water, ] 

salt and 1 slice onion and cook until celery is tender. Press through I 

use IY2 cups strained liquid. Add to the hot white sauce. Serve hot. 

Cream of Onion Soup. Slice 4 medium-sized onions, ^dd 2 cup 

teaspoon salt and Yt teaspoon pepper. Cook until onions are tender. 

through sieve and use 2 cups liquid. Add to hot white nua hot. 

Cream of Spinach Soup. Wash and pick over 1 quart spir k with 

}4 teaspoon salt and 3 cups boiling water for 20 minutes, i gh a 

sieve and use 2^ cups liquid and pulp. Add to the hot white n 

Cream of Mushroom Soup, red 1 pound mushrooms, usinj 

stems. Slice thin and cook with ] £ teaspoon salt and 3 CUDfl boiling water for 

20 minutes. Press through a sieve and use 2 ] L » cups liquid and pulp. Add 

with Y2 cup cream to the hot white sauce. Serve hot. 

Cream of Watercress Soup. Wash and cut tine leaves of 1 bunch f 

cress, reserving 2 tablespoons to sprinkle on the sou: spoon 

salt and 2 cups water for 10 minutes. Add liquid to the hot white sauce. 

Serve hot. 



66 



The *Art of Rooking and Serving 



LOBSTER BISQUE 

Remove meat from a 2-pound cooked lobster (see Boiled Lobster, page 84). 
Add 23^ cups cold water to the shell and claws and cook 25 minutes. Drain 
and reserve 2 cups stock. Cut lobster meat in small pieces. Add lobster and 
stock to 2 cups medium white sauce (page 64). Heat and serve immediately. 



CLAM 

2 dozen clams 
Liquor from clams 
}/% cup celery, cut in pieces 
2 tablespoons parsley, chopped 
2 tablespoons Crisco 



BISQUE 

5 tablespoons flour 
1 teaspoon salt 
Y% teaspoon pepper 
1 cup thin cream 
1 cup milk 



Strain liquor from clams through cheesecloth and add enough water to make 
2 cups liquid. Remove all particles of shell and chop clams fine. Cook clams, 
celery, parsley and liquid together 10 minutes. Press through a sieve and keep 
hot. Melt Crisco, add flour, salt and pepper and mix to a smooth paste. Add 
cream and milk and bring to boiling point, stirring constantly. Add the 
strained clam liquid. Serve immediately. 



CONSOMME 



4 pounds fowl 

2 pounds knuckle veal 

2 pounds beef 

4 quarts water 

1 tablespoon salt 
}/2 cup carrots, cut in pieces 
3^2 cup onions, cut in pieces 
}/2 cup celery, cut in pieces 



1 teaspoon peppercorns 

2 whole cloves 
1 allspice berry 

1 small bay leaf 

2 sprigs parsley 
1 sprig thyme 

1 sprig savory 
1 sprig marjoram 



Clean, disjoint and cut up fowl. Saw knuckle bone in pieces and cut up veal 
and beef in small pieces. Put in a covered soup kettle and add water. Let 
stand 1 hour to draw out juices. Put over the fire and bring quickly to the 
boiling point. Reduce heat at once to simmering and cook 6 or 7 hours. Add 
salt, vegetables and seasonings the last hour of cooking. Strain. Remove any 
fat when cold. Season more if necessary and clear by the following method: 

Put cold stock in a saucepan and add 2 slightly beaten egg whites. Put 
over fire and stir constantly until it boils. Boil 5 minutes. Let stand until it 
settles. Strain through 2 thicknesses of cheesecloth. Heat thoroughly and 



serve witn toasted cracKers. 


BOUILLON 






3J^ pounds beef, chopped 




2 stalks celery 




3J^ quarts water 




Y2 bay leaf 




1 onion 




2 cloves 




1 carrot 




6 peppercorns 




1 sprig parsley 




1 teaspoon salt 




Use beef from lower round. 


Put it in saucepan 


with water and let 


stand 


1 hour. Place over the fire in 


1 covered pot and br 


ing to boiling point. 


Skim. 


Reduce heat and simmer 3 hours. Chop onion, carrot, parsley, celery and add 



Jours 67 



to soup with the bay leaf, cloves, peppercorns and salt. Let simmer an hour 
longer. Strain into a bowl and cool quickly. This stock will not jelly as no 
bones are cooked with it. When ready to serve, remove fat and clarify by 
method used in Consomme. 

CHICKEN SOUP 

1 fowl 1 sprig parsley 

4 quarts water 1 teaspoon salt 

}/2 onion 6 peppercorns 

3 stalks celery }/£ cup rice 

Dress and cut the fowl in pieces and put into a saucepan. Add water, cover 
and bring to the boiling point. Reduce heat and simmer slowly 3 hours. Add 
onion, celery, parsley, salt and peppercorns. Cook for another hour. Take 
out fowl, strain stock and cool. Remove fat when cold. Cut \]/^ cups meat 
from the breast in small cubes and add to the soup. Steam the rice in 2 cups 
water in a double boiler about 30 minutes. Add to the soup. Season more if 
necessary and serve with crisp crackers. 

This soup may also be made from a chicken carcass but will not be as rich 
a stock. 

TOMATO PUREE 

1 quart fresh tomatoes 1 slice onion 

2 cups water or meat stock 3^ teaspoon salt 
}/2 bay leaf }/g teaspoon pepper 

2 stalks celery 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 sprig parsley 1 tablespoon Crisco 

2 tablespoons flour 
Wash and cut tomatoes in quarters, add water (or stock), bay leaf, celery, 
parsley, onion, salt, pepper and sugar and cook slowly until tomatoes are soft. 
In another saucepan melt Crisco, add flour and mix well. Add tomato mixture 
and stir until thick. Press soup through a fine sieve. Reheat over boiling 
water. Season more if necessary and serve with crisp croGtons. 
Canned tomatoes may be used in this recipe. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP 

2 cups black beans 1 teaspoon salt 

2 quarts water Y% teaspoon pepper 

3 tablespoons Crisco Few grains cayenne 
1 small onion 2 tablespoons Hour 

1 carrot 3 tablespoons v. 

2 stalks celery 1 hard-cooked egg 
2 sprigs parsley 1 lemon 

Soak beans over night. Drain. Put Crisco in saucepan, slice onion into it 

and cook slowly 5 minutes. Add the beans, water, sliced carrot, celery, parsley, 

salt, pepper and cayenne. Simmer slowly 3 or 4 hours. Add more 

if necessary. Press through a sieve. Reheat over boiling water Mix Hour 

and water to a smooth paste and add, stirring constantly until soup is thick 

and smooth. More seasoning may be added if needed 

sary. Chop egg fine or mash with a fork and add to soup. Cut lemon in thin 

slices and serve a slice in each soup plate. 



68 The ^rt of Rooking and Jerving 



SPLIT PEA SOUP 

1Y cups dried split peas 1 onion, sliced 

3 quarts water 2 cups scalded milk 
Ham bone 2 tablespoons Crisco 

Y teaspoon peppei 
Wash and pick over peas and soak over night. Drain. Add water, ham bone 
and onion. Cover and cook slowly 3 hours or until peas are soft. Press 
through a sieve. Add milk, Crisco and pepper and heat thoroughly. 

GERMAN VEGETABLE SOUP 

Y2 cup dried lima beans 2 potatoes, sliced 

Y2 cup dried peas 2 onions, sliced 

2 tablespoons barley 1 white turnip, diced 

2 tablespoons rice 1 cup stewed or canned 

2 tablespoons kidney beans tomatoes 

2 quarts cold water 1 teaspoon salt 

Y2 cup celery, cut in pieces Y teaspoon pepper 

1 ham bone or 1 frankfurter 
Wash beans, peas, barley, rice and kidney beans and soak over night in cold 
water. Bring to boiling point. Add celery, potatoes, onions, turnip, tomatoes, 
salt and pepper. Simmer slowly 2 hours. Add water as it cooks away. 
About half hour before serving add ham bone and more seasoning if necessary. 
Remove bone before serving. This soup should be quite thick and is a meal 
in itself. 

CLAM CHOWDER 

1 dozen clams \Y teaspoons salt 

4 tablespoons chopped onion Y teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons Crisco 4 cups scalded milk 

3 cups cooked potatoes, cut in cubes 2 tablespoons flour 

Strain liquor from clams and set it aside. Clean and pick over clams, removing 
all particles of shell. Chop fine and put into a saucepan with the liquor. Cook 
10 minutes. Fry onion in Crisco until a delicate brown and strain Crisco into 
the clams. Add potatoes, salt, pepper and milk and bring to the boiling point. 
Mix flour with a little cold water to make a smooth paste and add to the chow- 
der. Stir gently until it thickens. Serve at once. 

OYSTER CHOWDER 

1 dozen oysters 13^ teaspoons salt 

4 tablespoons chopped onion Y% teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons Crisco 4 cups scalded milk 

3 cups cooked potatoes, cut in cubes 2 tablespoons flour 
Strain liquor from oysters and set it aside. Clean and pick over oysters, 
removing all particles of shell. Chop fine and put into a saucepan. Fry onion 
in Crisco until a delicate brown and strain Crisco into the oysters. Add pota- 
toes, salt, pepper and milk and bring to the boiling point. Mix flour with a 
little cold water to make a smooth paste and add to the chowder with the 
oyster liquor. Stir gently until it thickens. Serve at once. 



croups 69 



CORN CHOWDER 

4 tablespoons chopped onion 4 cups milk 

3 tablespoons Crisco 1^ teaspoons salt 

3 cups cooked potatoes, cut in J/g teaspoon pepper 

34 inch slices Few grains cayenne 

2 cups cooked or canned corn 6 small pilot crackers 

Fry onion in Crisco until a delicate brown. Strain Crisco into a saucepan. 
Add potatoes, corn, milk, salt, pepper and cayenne. Bring to the boiling point. 
Serve a cracker in each portion of soup. 



CHAPTER VII 



Cereals and Cheese 

MANY homemakers do not realize that certain other 
foods furnish the same amount of nourishment as 
meat. 

Cheese and milk are the two most valuable foods which may 
be substituted for meat in the meatless menu as they are rich 
in protein, the element usually supplied by meat. But to give 
them variety it is necessary to combine them skillfully with 
other things. 

The cereal foods lack just the elements which milk and cheese 
contain and are therefore well suited to combine with them, 
especially if fat is added to make up for the lack of meat fat. 
Crisco, which is a pure vegetable fat, supplies this deficiency 
and helps to make a perfectly balanced dish of real nutritive 
value. 

Some of the recipes in this chapter are for "one-dish meals" 
and if followed by a light salad of greens or fruit they will 
supply the full amount of nourishment for one meal. Among 
those which will be found most appetizing are baked samp 
and cheese with tomato sauce, Italian spaghetti and Mexican 
cheese. 

For your convenience a chart giving directions for cooking 
the most familiar breakfast cereals has been included in this 
chapter. 

SUCCESS SECRETS 

1. Buy cereals in small quantities and keep in tightly covered 
jars or cans. 

2. After five minutes of cooking over direct fire place cereal 
in a double boiler and cook until done. 

[70] 



Qe reals and ^heese 



71 



3. Save your cereal left over from breakfast! Mold or slice 
it and fry in hot Crisco. Serve with syrup as a dessert 
for luncheon or supper. 

4. Use cheese more often in your menu. It is a concentrated 
source of protein (building food) and in combination with 
other foods makes a good substitute for meat. 

5. Serve "one-dish" meals occasionally to your family. They 
save fuel and labor and are an economical way of using 
left over food material. 

6. Cheese cooked at too high a temperature becomes tough 
and leathery. Bake dishes containing cheese in a moder- 
ate oven or over hot water. 



GENERAL RULES FOR COOKING CEREALS 



Kind of Cereal 


Amount 


Water 


Salt 


Method of 
Cooking 


Time 


Coarse — 
Oatmeal 
Samp 
Cracked Wheat 


1 cup 


4 cups 


1 tea- 
spoon 


Steam — 
(double-boiler 

or 
fireless cooker) 


3 hours or 
over night in 
fireless 
cooker 


Rolled — 
Hominy 
Rolled Oats 


1 cup 


3 cups 


1 tea- 


Steam — 
(double-boiler) 


1 hour 


Fine — 

Wheatena 
Cream of Wheat 
Farina, etc. 
Cornmeal 


1 cup 


4 cups 


1 tea- 
spoon 


Steam — 
(double-boiler) 


1 j hour 



1. Sprinkle dry cereal slowly into actively boiling salted water, stirring 
constantly. 

2. Cook directly over fire for 5 to 10 minutes or until cereal thickens slightly, 
stirring occasionally to prevent lumping. Finish cooking as directed ab 

3. Consult chart for quantity and length of time required for cooking. 



72 The <>/fRT of Rooking and Serving 



FRIED HOMINY 

Sprinkle 1 cup hominy into 3 cups actively boiling salted water, stirring con- 
stantly. Cook directly over fire until thick, stirring occasionally to prevent 
lumping. Put in double boiler or over hot water and cook 30 minutes. Pour 
into a greased mold. When cold, cut in thin slices. Dip in slightly beaten 
egg mixed with 1 tablespoon cold water, then in flour. Fry slices in a small 
amount of Crisco until a delicate brown. 

BOILED MACARONI 

Cook macaroni in boiling salted water until tender. Drain in sieve or colander. 
Pour boiling water over the macaroni to prevent sticking. Keep hot over 
hot water. 

Spaghetti and noodles are cooked the same way. 

MACARONI AND CHIPPED BEEF 

EN CASSEROLE 

4 cups cooked macaroni 2 cups thin white sauce 

1 cup chipped beef 34 CU P bread crumbs 

Put a layer of macaroni in a greased baking dish or casserole, then a layer of 
chipped beef and a layer of White Sauce (page 113). Repeat until all the 
ingredients are used. Sprinkle top with seasoned bread crumbs and bake in 
hot oven (400 degrees F.) 20 to 25 minutes. 

BAKED NOODLES, CHEESE AND HAM 

4 cups cooked noodles % cup grated cheese 

1 cup ham, cut fine 2 cups thin white sauce 

Put a layer of noodles in a greased baking dish. Sprinkle with ham and cheese, 
then cover with a layer of White Sauce (page 113). Repeat until all the ingre- 
dients are used. Sprinkle top with cheese. Bake in hot oven (400 degrees F.) 
20 to 25 minutes. 

BOILED RICE 

Wash 1 cup rice and soak in a quart of water over night. Drain. Add slowly 
to lj^ quarts boiling salted water and boil until soft, about 30 minutes. Stir 
occasionally while cooking, using a fork to avoid breaking the kernels. Drain 
in a sieve. Pour boiling water over it to prevent sticking. Put into the pan 
in which it was cooked, cover and let stand over hot water 5 minutes. 

STEAMED RICE 

Wash 1 cup rice and soak in a quart of water over night. Drain. Add slowly 
to 23^ cups boiling salted water. Boil 5 minutes. Steam over boiling water 
until tender, stirring occasionally with a fork. 






^EREALS AND ^HEESK 73 



RICE AU GRATIN 
3 cups cooked rice 1 cup grated cheese 

13^ cups thin white sauce 
Put a layer of rice in a greased baking dish. Sprinkle with cheese and cover 
with a layer of hot White Sauce (page 113). Repeat until all the ingredients 
are used, having a layer of cheese on top. Bake in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 
20 to 25 minutes. 

BAKED SAMP AND CHEESE 

WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

2 cups cooked or canned tomatoes Few grains cayenne 

2 tablespoons chopped onion 3 tablespoons Crisco 

2 cloves 2 tablespoons flour 

Y2 teaspoon salt 2]/£ cups cooked samp 

1 tablespoon sugar Yl cup grated cheese 

Y cup bread crumbs 
Cook tomatoes, onion, cloves, salt, sugar and cayenne together slowly 20 
minutes. Strain. Melt 2 tablespoons Crisco, add flour and mix well. Add 
the strained tomato juice and bring slowly to the boiling point, stirring con- 
stantly. Put a layer of samp in a greased baking dish. Add a layer of cheese 
and a layer of tomato sauce. Repeat until all the ingredients are used. Sprinkle 
top with crumbs and dot with small bits of Crisco. Bake in a hot oven (400 
degrees F.) 25 minutes, or until crumbs are brown. 

BAKED SPAGHETTI 

Y2 pound spaghetti 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons Crisco Y teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon chopped onion Y teaspoon paprika 

2 tablespoons chopped green pepper 2 teaspoons sugar 

2 cups tomatoes 1 cup grated cheese 

Cook spaghetti in boiling salted water until tender. Drain. Melt Crisco, 
add onion and green pepper and cook until soft. Add tomatoes, salt, pepper, 
paprika and sugar and cook 10 minutes. Mix spaghetti with sauce. Add Y 
cup cheese. Put in a greased baking dish, sprinkle the top with remaining 
cheese and bake in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 20 to 25 minutes or until cheese 
is brown. 

ITALIAN SPAGHETTI 

1 onion, sliced thin tablespoons Crisco 

4 tablespoons chopped green pepper 1 can tomato paste 

Y pound mushrooms, chopped 1 ] •_> cupa 

Y pound chopped beef poon salt 

Y pound spaghetti 
Fry onion, green pepper, mushrooms and meat in Crisco until a delicate brown, 
stirring constantly. Add tomato paste, water and salt and cook 20 minutes. 
Cook spaghetti in boiling salted water until tender. Drain. a hot 

platter and pour the hot sauce over it. 



74 The c/rt of Rooking and Jerving 



CHEESE DREAMS 

Cut thin slices of bread and trim off crusts. Sprinkle thin slices of American 
cheese with salt, paprika and cayenne and put between two slices of bread. 
Cut in halves and dip in a mixture of 1 beaten egg, Y2 CU P milk and 34 teaspoon 
salt. Fry in hot shallow Crisco until brown on both sides. Drain on unglazed 
paper and serve hot. 

CHEESE FONDUE 

\^2 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups soft bread crumbs J/g teaspoon pepper 

3 eggs }/8 teaspoon paprika 

V/2 cups grated cheese 1 tablespoon melted Crisco 

Pour milk over the bread crumbs. Add beaten eggs, cheese, salt, pepper, 
paprika and Crisco. Mix well. Pour into greased individual baking dishes 
and bake in moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 20 to 25 minutes. 



MEXICAN CHEESE 

2 tablespoons Crisco Few grains cayenne 

2 tablespoons chopped green pepper 1 cup strained tomato juice 

2 tablespoons flour 1 cup cooked or canned corn 

1 teaspoon salt 13^ cups grated cheese 

3^ teaspoon mustard 1 egg 

Melt Crisco, add green pepper, and cook until soft. Add flour, salt, mustard 
and cayenne and mix well. Add tomato juice slowly and cook until thick, 
stirring constantly. Add corn and cheese and cook until cheese is melted. 
Remove from fire. Beat the egg well and pour the hot sauce on it. Mix well. 
Serve hot on toast. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

1 cup grated cheese 3 egg yolks 

1 cup very thick white sauce 3 egg whites 

Add the cheese to the hot White Sauce (page 113), and stir until melted. Cool. 
Add the beaten egg yolks. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into a 
greased baking dish. Stand in a pan of warm water and bake in a moderate 
oven (325 degrees F.) 50 to 60 minutes. 



RING-TUM-DIDDY 

}/2 pound grated American cheese Few grains cayenne 

H teaspoon salt 1 can tomato soup 

Toasted crackers 

Melt cheese in a saucepan over a slow fire. Add salt, cayenne and tomato 
soup. Stir until well mixed and heat thoroughly. Serve on toasted crackers. 






£ereals and £ heese 75 



WELSH RAREBIT 

2 tablespoons Crisco Few grains cayenne 

2 tablespoons flour 1 cup thin cream 

Ji teaspoon mustard 1 cup grated cheese 

Yl teaspoon salt 1 egg 

Toast 
Melt Crisco. Add flour, mustard, salt and cayenne and mix well. Add cream 
slowly and bring to the boiling point, stirring constantly. Add cheese and stir 
until melted. Remove from fire. Beat the egg well and pour hot sauce on it. 
Mix well. Serve hot on toast. 



CHAPTER VIII 



E ii S 



EGGS are an important source of iron, phosphorus and 
vitamins, but they are not a complete food in themselves 
and should be used in combination with other foods which 
supplement them. 

When eggs are used as a breakfast dish — scrambled, fried, 
baked, poached or in an omelet — their possibilities are merely 
begun. With a cream sauce and a few hard cooked eggs one 
has the makings of an endless range of luncheon and supper 
dishes. An ingenious cook will add anything to eggs from 
minced green pepper or pimento to cheese and mushrooms and, 
presto, with a pretty garnish she has something to be proud of. 

A hostess famous for her salads always introduces hard 
cooked eggs as a finishing touch and as an emergency measure 
usually keeps one or two on hand ready cooked. Eggs offer 
any number of possibilities for salads. 

In soups, eggs are a bit of culinary wisdom everyone should 
cultivate. A raw egg added at the last minute, or a chopped 
hard cooked egg lends both flavor and nourishment to soup. 

New super-creamed Crisco is the ideal fat to use in egg dishes 
of all kinds because of its delicate flavor. For frying, scrambling 
or making omelets eggs properly cooked in Crisco are apt to be 
more easilv digested than when cooked in a fat which burns easilv. 



SUCCESS SECRETS 

For "hard cooked" eggs allow them to stand for twenty to 
thirty minutes in water kept just below the boiling point. 
For "soft cooked" eggs allow them to stand from five to 
eight minutes. Never allow the water in which eggs are 
cooked to reach the boiling point, as it makes the white 
tough and leathery. 

[76] 



£ggs 77 

2. The whites of eggs beaten until stiff and "folded in," as 
for omelets and souffles, make the mixture puff up and 
become light. 

3. Include eggs frequently in your menu. They are especi- 
ally valuable as a body building food because of the 
protein and mineral matter they contain. 

4. Use only strictly fresh eggs for boiling and poaching. 

5. Test eggs for freshness: (a) if they rattle when shaken 
they are stale, (b) When placed in a glass of water a 
perfectly fresh egg will sink to the bottom, a half stale 
one will rise slightly at one end and if very stale it will 
float. 

6. Buy eggs when they are plentiful and cheap, and put 
them away in water glass solution, or pack them in saw- 
dust against the season when the price is high. 

7. Use Crisco, instead of butter, for all egg cookery. Eggs 
require slow cooking and butter is apt to burn before they 
are done, making them unsightly and indigestible. 

8. Wash dishes in which eggs are cooked first in cold water 
to loosen the egg, then in hot water. 

9. Keep eggs in a cool place, but not in the refrigerator unless 
in a covered dish, because their porous shells readily 
absorb odors. 



FRIED EGGS 
Heat an iron frying pan and put enough Crisco in it to cover the bottom ot the 
pan generously. When melted drop eggs into it. Fry slowly until the white 
is set. Serve hot. If a harder yolk is desired the eggs may be turned 
cooked on the other side. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

6 eggs MUt 

l / 2 cup milk H teaspoon p 

1 tablespoon Crisco 
Heat eggs slightly and add milk, salt and pepper. ! : 
Melt Crisco and pour in the egg mixture. Cook slowly, stirring constantly 
with a fork until creamy. Serve hot on toast. 



78 The zArt of Rooking and Serving 



SHIRRED EGGS 

Grease individual custard cups. Cover bottom and sides with dried bread 
crumbs. Break eggs into a saucer, one at a time, and carefully slip into the 
custard cups. Sprinkle with a little salt and pepper. Cover top with well 
seasoned crumbs. Bake in a slow oven (275 degrees F.) 15 to 20 minutes or 
until the egg white is firm and the crumbs are a delicate brown. 

FRENCH OMELET 

6 eggs ?4 teaspoon salt 

} 2 cup milk }$ teaspoon pepper 

l}o tablespoons Crisco 
Beat eggs slightly, just enough to blend yolks with whites. Add milk, salt and 
pepper. Melt Crisco and pour in the egg mixture. Cook slowly and prick 
up with a fork until it thickens. Fold and turn out on a hot platter. 

CHEESE OMELET 

Follow recipe for French Omelet. Sprinkle }£ cup grated cheese on the omelet 
and put in a very hot oven (475 degrees F.) until cheese melts. 

PUFFY OMELET 

5 egg yolks Few grains cayenne 

1 teaspoon salt 5 tablespoons hot water 
Few grains pepper 5 egg whites 

1 tablespoon Crisco 
Beat egg yolks until thick and add salt, pepper, cayenne and hot water. Mix 
well. Fold in lightly the stiffly beaten whites until thoroughly blended. Melr 
Crisco in an iron frying pan or omelet pan. Pour in the egg mixture and 
spread evenly. Cook over a slow fire, moving the pan occasionally so as to 
distribute the heat evenly. When a delicate brown underneath put in a 
moderate oven (550 degrees F.), and bake 10 to 15 minutes or until top is firm. 
Fold and serve on a hot platter. Garnish with parsley. 

JELLY OMELET 

Follow recipe for Puffy Omelet. Beat 1 o cup jelly with a fork to the right con- 
sistency for spreading. As soon as the omelet is baked spread quickly with the 
jelly and fold. Serve immediately. 

SPANISH OMELET 

2 tablespoons Crisco 3 tablespoons chopped celery 

3 tablespoons chopped green pepper }± cup chopped mushrooms 
3 tablespoons chopped onion *± teaspoon salt 

1 large tomato Few grains pepper 

Few grains cayenne 
Melt Crisco, add green pepper and onion and fry slowly until soft. Peel 
tomato, and cut in small pieces. Add tomato, celery, mushrooms, salt, 
pepper and cayenne to the first mixture. Cook over a low fire until the tomato 
is tender. Follow recipe for Puffy Omelet. Put the hot tomato mixture on one- 
half of the omelet and fold over. Garnish with parsley. Serve immediately. 



£ggs 79 



EGG FLUFF 

1 slice of bread y 2 tablespoon Crisco, melted 

Milk y 2 teaspoon salt 

4 eggs Few grains cayenne 

Break bread in pieces and put in a cup. Fill the cup with milk. Pour into a 
bowl and add beaten eggs, cayenne, salt and Crisco. Fill greased custard 
cups % full and bake in a moderate oven (325 degrees F.) about 30 minutes. 
Serve at once. 

EGG SOUFFLE 

3 egg yolks 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 cup medium white sauce 3 egg whites 

Add beaten egg yolks to the hot White Sauce (page 113), and add the parsley. 
Cool. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Put into a greased baking dish. 
Set in pan of hot water and bake in a moderate oven (325 degrees F.) 45 to 
50 minutes. Serve immediately. 

CURRIED EGGS 

Follow recipe for medium White Sauce (page 113), adding % teaspoon curry 
powder and 1 teaspoon chopped onion to the melted Crisco. Add 3 sliced 
hard cooked eggs. Heat thoroughly and serve on toast. 

DEVILLED EGGS 

6 hard cooked eggs }/$, teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons Crisco Spread 3^8 teaspoon mustard 

1 tablespoon vinegar Few grains cayenne 

Cut eggs in halves lengthwise. Put yolks in a bowl, add Crisco Spread (page 
145), vinegar, salt, mustard and cayenne and mash to a smooth paste. Fill egg 
whites with the mixture. Serve with cold cuts of meat. 

GOLDEN EGGS 

6 hard cooked eggs Toast points 

\}/2 cups thin white sauce 2 teaspoons chopped par 

Separate yolks from whites. Chop whites fine and add to the hot White 
Sauce (page 113). Pour sauce into a platter and arrange toast points around 
edge. Press egg yolks through a sieve over the sauce and sprinkle with parsley. 
Serve immediately. 

SCALLOPED EGGS 

6 hard cooked eggs 1 ] £ cup* soft bread crumbs 

}/i teaspoon salt 2 cups thin wh 

Chop eggs fine and add salt. Put a layer of crumbs in the bott 
baking dish. Add a layer of egc and one of White 

until all the ingredients are used, having a layer of crumbf on top. Hake in a 
moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 20 minutes or until crumbs ..u brown. 



80 The c/rt of Rooking and Serving 



BAKED EGGS IN TOMATO SAUCE 

2 cups cooked or canned tomatoes Few grains pepper 

1 slice onion 2 tablespoons Crisco 
}/2 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons flour 

2 teaspoons sugar 6 eggs 

J^ cup grated American cheese 
Cook tomatoes, onion, salt, sugar and pepper together 20 minutes. Press the 
pulp through a sieve, discarding seeds. Melt Crisco, add flour and mix well. 
Add the tomato juice slowly and bring to the boiling point, stirring constantly. 
Pour the sauce into six individual baking dishes. Break eggs, one at a time, 
into a cup and slip carefully into each dish. Sprinkle with cheese. Bake in a 
moderate oven (325 degrees F.) 15 minutes or until eggs are firm. 



BAKED EGGS WITH CHEESE SAUCE 

Put a thin layer of Cheese Sauce (page 114), in the bottom of a greased baking 
dish or individual baking dishes. Break eggs, one at a time, into a cup and 
drop carefully on the sauce. Cover them with another layer of cheese sauce. 
Sprinkle top with well-seasoned soft bread crumbs. Bake in a moderate oven 
(325 degrees F.) 15 to 20 minutes or until the egg whites are firm and the 
crumbs are brown. 



EGGS AND SPINACH EN CASSEROLE 

\}/2 cups cold chopped spinach 6 eggs 

1 cup cheese sauce 
Put 4 tablespoons well-seasoned spinach in bottom of individual baking dishes. 
Drop a raw egg on top of each. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Cover with 
Cheese Sauce (page 114). Cook in a moderate oven (325 degrees F.) 15 to 20 
minutes or until eggs are set. 

EGGS AND MUSHROOMS EN CASSEROLE 

\i pound mushrooms Few grains pepper 

13^2 cups water Few grains cayenne 

1 tablespoon Crisco 1 cup milk 

4 tablespoons flour 6 hard cooked eggs, sliced 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons dried bread crumbs 

Wash mushrooms, drain and peel, and remove stems. Cook stems and peelings 
together in the water 15 minutes. Strain liquid into a cup. Slice mushrooms 
and fry slowly in the Crisco until tender. Mix flour, salt, pepper and cayenne 
together and add milk slowly to make a smooth paste. Add the cup of mush- 
room stock and cook over a slow fire, stirring constantly until thick. Add 
mushrooms. Put a layer of eggs in a casserole then a layer of the mushroom 
mixture. Repeat this process until all the ingredients are used. Sprinkle top 
with crumbs. Bake in a moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 20 minutes or until 
crumbs are brown. 



H 

nrp low 



CHAPTER IX 



Fish 

AVE you ever wondered why fish has been called 
"brain food?" There is no actual foundation in fact 
for such a statement. But because most kinds of fish 
are low in energy-producing materials (fats, carbohydrates) and 
rich in general health materials (proteins, vitamins) they arc- 
considered good food for people who live sedentary lives. Fish 
is also easily digested, and so persons who do not get sufficient 
exercise to digest more hearty food can readily take care of well- 
cooked and temptingly served fish. 

Wherever it can be had at low cost, fish should be used 
frequently to help furnish the protein requirements of the 
family. It may be a little more trouble to prepare and require 
a little more care than a lamb chop, still the difference in price 
and the pleasing variety added to the menu make it quite worth 
the extra effort. 

Fish appears on the market fresh and preserved by freezing, 
canning, salting and smoking. One must be careful in select- 
ing fish that it is perfectly fresh, as it decomposes readily. 

If one is not fortunate enough to live in a locality where she 
can purchase fresh fish, storage fish is almost always available 
and, if it has been properly preserved, is even more reliable than 
"uncertain" fresh fish. Cold storage fish should never be pur- 
chased unless frozen solid and fully enclosed in a jacket ol 
When it comes home from the market put it in a covered pan 
in the ice box and allow it to thaw gradually, but Jo not soak 
it in w T ater. Use it as soon as possible after it has thawed out. 
Salted and smoked fish are always available, as arc also g 
brands of canned fish. 

The preparation and cooking of fish is simple and quickly 
accomplished and if properly prepared at the market it requ 

[81] 



82 The <^rt of Rooking and Jerving 

very little attention by the cook. Whole fish should be care- 
fully washed in plenty of cold water, while sections, such as 
fillets and slices, should be wiped with a clean damp piece of 
cheesecloth. 

As most fish is deficient in fat it should be cooked so that fat 
enters into its preparation in some way. In every case Crisco 
"just fills the bill." In baking, bits of Crisco dotted over the 
top make it rich and tender; in broiling, the pan rubbed with 
Crisco keeps the fish from sticking; and for deep fat frying and 
sauteing, cooking in the new super-creamed Crisco is the best 
possible means of securing delicious, easily digested sea food. 



SUCCESS SECRETS 

1. Fish, as a source of tissue-and-bone-building material, is 
cheaper than meat. Substitute it once or twice a week 
for the ever-present roast and stews. 

2. When boiling white fish add a little vinegar or lemon juice 
to the water to keep the flesh white and firm. 

3. Narrow strips of muslin, greased with Crisco and put across 
the bottom of the pan in which fish is to be baked, make 
it easy to remove the fish from the pan without breaking. 
The ends of the strips must extend beyond the fish. 

4. In selecting fish remember that (a) fresh fish should not 
give off an offensive odor, (b) the eyes of fresh fish should 
be bulgy, bright and shiny, (c) the flesh of fresh fish should 
be firm and the gills reddish in color. 

5. When fish comes from the market remove it from the 
paper and, if it has not been cleaned, clean it at once. 
Wash and salt it slightly and put in a covered dish. 

6. Keep fish in a part of the refrigerator from which odors 
cannot be carried to other foods. 

7. Cook fish as soon as possible after it comes from the 
market. 

8. See Chapter V for additional fish recipes. 






j^ish 83 



SAUTEED BUTTERFISH 

Wipe the fish with a damp cloth. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour. Cook 
in a small amount of Crisco in a frying pan 8 to 10 minutes or until brown on 
both sides. Sprinkle with chopped parsley and juice of half a lemon. Garnish 
with watercress and serve with slices of lemon. 

BOILED CODFISH 

1 tablespoon Crisco 2 quarts water 

1 stalk celery, chopped 3^ bay leaf 

1 small onion, chopped 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 small carrot, chopped 1 teaspoon salt 

1 sprig parsley, chopped aspoon pepper 

2J/£ pounds codfish 
Melt Crisco, add celery, onion, carrot and parsley. Cook 2 minutes, stirring 
frequently. Add water, bay leaf, vinegar, salt and pepper and bring to boiling 
point. Wrap fish in cheesecloth, and drop into the boiling water. Reduce 
heat and simmer 50 minutes. Remove cheesecloth from the fish and serve 
on hot platter garnished with parsley. Serve with Egg Sauce (page 115). 

CREAMED CODFISH 

3 cups cooked cud, flaked 2 tablespoons chopped parsley 

2 cups medium white sauce 1 tablespoon chopped pimento 
Heat the flaked fish in the White Sauce (page 113). Add parsley and pimento 
and more seasoning if necessary. Serve on hot toast with baked potatoes. 

SAUTEED CODFISH 

Remove the skin and backbone and cut fish in square pieces. Season with 
salt and pepper and roll in fine cornmeal or cracker crumbs. Cook in a small 
amount of Crisco in a frying pan 8 to 10 minutes or until brown on both sides. 
Drain on unglazed paper and serve with Tartar Mayonnaise (page 140;. 

STUFFED HADDOCK 

1 haddock about 4 lbs.) 1 teaspoon chopped onion 

2 tablespoons Crisco 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 
\]/2 cups bread crumbs : poon salt 

2 tablespoons chopped sour pickle } % teaspoon pepper 
1 teaspoon chopped capers aspoon paprika 

Wipe fish with a damp cloth and remove head and tail. Split down the middle, 
clean, remove backbone and as many other bones as possible. Season with 
salt and pepper. Melt Crisco and add bread crumbs, pickle, capers, onion, 
parsley, salt, pepper and paprika. Mix well. Put this stuffing between the 
two halves of fish, sandwich style. Put in a baking pan with * 2 cup water, 
brush top with melted Crisco, sprinkle with salt and pepper and bake in moder- 
ate oven (350 degrees F.) 50 to 60 minutes. Baste occasionally while baking 
with melted Crisco. 



84 The zArt of Rooking and Serving 



HALIBUT STEAK 

Wipe slices of halibut with a damp cloth, sprinkle with salt and pepper and 
dust with fine cracker crumbs. Cook in a small amount of Crisco in a frying 
pan 8 to 10 minutes or until brown on both sides. Drain on unglazed paper. 
Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon and serve with Hollandaise Sauce 
(page 115). 

STUFFED HALIBUT STEAK 

1 dozen oysters 1 cup bread or cracker crumbs 

2 tablespoons Crisco, melted }/& teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley Y% teaspoon pepper 

2 slices halibut, cut from the middle of fish 
Drain oysters. Add Crisco, parsley, crumbs, salt and pepper and mix well. 
Wipe the fish with damp cloth. Place one slice on a greased piece of muslin. 
Sprinkle with salt, pepper and lemon juice and spread with the oyster stuffing. 
Place second slice on top and brush with melted Crisco. Put in a baking pan 
with a little water. Bake in moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 40 to 50 minutes. 
Baste frequently with melted Crisco. Remove to hot platter, garnish with 
potato balls, parsley and slices of lemon. Serve with Hollandaise Sauce (page 
115) or Bearnaise Sauce (page 114). 

BOILED LOBSTER 

Take the live lobster by the back and plunge it in boiling salted water, head first. 
Have water deep enough to cover. Reduce heat and simmer 35 to 40 minutes. 
Remove from the water and cool. Turn lobster on back and make a cut with 
a sharp knife from point under head to tail, through the shell. Take out the 
large intestine which runs the length of the tail. (This is often colorless.) 
Crack the claws so that the meat may be easily removed. 

Serve ice cold in the shell with cold Hollandaise Sauce (page 115), or Mayon- 
naise Dressing (page 140). 

BAKED MACKEREL 

2 tablespoons Crisco 34 teaspoon salt 

1 cup bread crumbs J/g teaspoon pepper 

1 teaspoon chopped onion 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

1 teaspoon chopped capers 33^ to 4 pounds mackerel 

Melt Crisco. Add crumbs, onion, capers, salt, pepper and parsley. Wash the 
fish and wipe with a damp cloth. Stuff and tie together. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper and spread with melted Crisco. Bake in moderate oven (350 
degrees F.) 50 to 60 minutes. Baste often with Crisco and water. 

BROILED OYSTERS 

Dry 24 oysters with a clean soft cloth. Heat broiler and grease well, using 
melted Crisco. Dip oysters in melted Crisco, then in dried bread crumbs, and 
arrange on broiler. Broil about 3 minutes. Have ready 6 slices of toast, cut 
in uniform pieces. Moisten toast with hot oyster juice. Place 4 broiled 
oysters on each slice of toast and season with salt, pepper and a few drops of 
lemon juice. 



jFish 85 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

2 tablespoons Crisco 1 teaspoon salt 

\]/2 cups soft bread crumbs }/$ teaspoon pepper 

30 oysters 3^ CU P m ilk 

Y2 cup oyster liquor 
Grease baking dish with Crisco and cover bottom with a layer of crumbs. On 
this put 10 oysters. Sprinkle each layer with salt and pepper and dot with 
small bits of Crisco. Repeat this process until all the ingredients are used, 
having a layer of crumbs on top. Pour the milk and oyster liquor over it and 
bake in moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 30 minutes. Serve with slices of 
crisp bacon. 

FRIED PICKEREL 

Wipe the fish with a damp cloth. Leave whole or cut in pieces of uniform size. 
Sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour. Cook in a small amount of Crisco in a 
frying pan 20 to 30 minutes, according to size of fish. Serve with lemon and 
parsley. 

BOILED SALMON 

1 tablespoon Crisco 2 quarts water 

1 onion, chopped Y2 bay leaf 

1 stalk celery, chopped 1 teaspoon salt 

1 sprig parsley, chopped }/$ teaspoon pepper 

1 carrot, chopped 1 tablespoon vinegar 

2Y2 pounds salmon 
Melt Crisco, add onion, celery, parsley and carrot. Cook for 2 minutes, stirring 
frequently. Add water, bay leaf, salt, pepper and vinegar and bring to boiling 
point. Wrap salmon in cheesecloth and drop into the boiling water. Reduce 
heat and simmer 30 minutes. Remove cheesecloth and serve fish on hot 
platter. Garnish with lemon, cut in fancy shapes, and parsley. Serve with 
Parsley Sauce (page 115). 

SCALLOPED SALMON 

1 cup thick white sauce 1 tablespoon chopped green pepper 

13^ cups cold flaked salmon 34 teaspoon paprika 

1 cup soft bread crumbs 
To the hot White Sauce (page 113), add salmon, green pepper and paprika. 
Mix well. Put in greased ramekins or a large baking dish. Sprinkle with 
fine bread crumbs. Bake in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 20 minutes, or until 
crumbs are brown. 

BROILED SALMON STEAK 

Moisten slices of salmon with French Dressing (page 139), and let stand for 1 
hour. Put in a broiler and broil on both sides. Brush while cooking with 
1 tablespoon melted Crisco, using a little at a time. Cook 12 to 15 minutes. 
Remove to hot platter. Season with salt, pepper and juice of 3^ lemon and 
sprinkle with 1 tablespoon chopped parsley. Serve with Bearnaise Sauce 
(page 114). 



86 The c^rt of Rooking and Serving 



BROILED SHAD 

Wash, remove head and tail from shad, clean and split down the back. Remove 
backbone with as many other bones as possible. Place skin side down on a 
greased broiler, spread with melted Crisco and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Broil 20 to 25 minutes, depending on size of fish. Remove to hot platter and 
garnish with watercress and slices of lemon. Serve at once. 



SHAD ROE 

Wash and dry the roe, using care not to break the skin. Sprinkle with salt, 
pepper and flour. Melt 2 tablespoons Crisco in a frying pan. When hot, put 
in the roe and cook slowly until brown on one side. Turn and brown on the 
other side. A cover may be put over the frying pan to keep the Crisco from 
spattering. Cook from 20 to 30 minutes. Garnish with lemon and parsley 
and serve very hot with crisp bacon. 



SHRIMP AND RICE, BAKED 

2 cups cooked shrimp, cut in pieces }/$ teaspoon pepper 

2 cups cooked rice Few grains cayenne 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley 2 cups medium white sauce 

}/2 cup dried bread crumbs 
Mix shrimps, rice, parsley, pepper, cayenne and White Sauce (page 113). Pour 
in a greased baking dish and sprinkle with crumbs. Bake in a hot oven 
(400 degrees F.) 20 to 25 minutes or until crumbs are brown. 



FILLET OF SOLE (FLOUNDER) 

\}/2 pounds fillets of flounder z /± cup fine bread crumbs 

Salt 1 egg 

Pepper 2 tablespoons water 

Wipe fillets with a damp cloth. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Dip in crumbs, 
then in slightly beaten egg diluted with water and again in crumbs. Cook in a 
small amount of Crisco in a frying pan 8 to 10 minutes, or until brown on both 
sides. Garnish with lemon and parsley and serve with Tartar Mayonnaise 
(page 140). 

BAKED WEAKFISH 

Wash fish, wipe with damp cloth, and sprinkle inside with salt and pepper. 
Cut gashes across the skin. Spread fish with Crisco and sprinkle with salt, 
pepper and J^ teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. Place fish in a baking pan on a 
strip of muslin greased with Crisco. Bake in a moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 
allowing about 15 minutes to the pound. Remove from the muslin to a hot 
platter. Garnish with lemon and parsley. The fish may be filled with a 
bread stuffing if desired. 



CHAPTER X 



Meat and "Poultry 

DO YOU know that about one-third of the money spent 
on food in the United States is spent for meat? This 
seems a high percentage but it is probably due to the 
fact that so many of us demand the expensive roasts, steaks 
and chops. Fortunately there is just as much nourishment in 
the cheaper cuts of meat as in the expensive cuts, and if they 
are properly cooked they will be deliciously tender and palat- 
able. 

The recipes in this chapter call frequently for the cheaper 
cuts, and if you follow them you cannot help but notice the 
difference in your butcher's bill at the end of a month. 

In cooking meats you aim for two things. First, you want 
to keep all the juices in the meat, and secondly, you want the 
tissues to grow tender. Juices will not run out of a piece of 
meat if the outside is first seared over by exposure to a very 
hot fire; then the heat should be reduced and the meat cooked 
rather slowly for the remainder of the required time if you want 
to avoid toughness. 

During the process of roasting, the meat should be basted 
frequently to keep it moist and to concentrate the flavors in 
the meat itself. The tougher meats, and in fact any meat or 
fowl which is to be cooked in water, should not actually boil. 
It should simmer or cook very slowly just below the boiling 
point. Slow cooking loosens the connective tissues while the 
more rapid cooking hardens and toughens them. 

When cooking roasts it is best not to put any water in the 
pan at first. If the meat has not enough fat to make liquid for 
basting, Crisco will be found a great help. Basting lean meats 
with Crisco makes them juicy, tender and deliciously flavored. 
Meats basted with Crisco are brown and have a delicately crisp 
outside covering. 

[87] 



88 The c/rt of Rooking and Serving 

As poultry is frequently lacking in fat it is sometimes neces- 
sary to add extra fat when roasting it. The skin of chicken and 
turkey should be rubbed over with Crisco before being put in 
the oven and then the bird should be basted frequently, more 
Crisco and a little water being added as the pan becomes dry. 

SUCCESS SECRETS 

1. When meat comes from the market remove it from the 
paper and place it in the ice box on a china or enamel plate. 

2. Do not put meat into water to wash it. Wipe with a 
clean, damp cloth before cooking. 

3. Do not pierce the meat with a fork while it is cooking; 
this lets out the juices. 

4. To draw out the flavor of meats, as for broths, start the 
cooking in cold water, bringing slowly to the boiling point. 

5. To keep flavor and juices in meat expose it to extreme 
heat first, then reduce the temperature and cook more 
slowly. 

6. Cook the tough and cheaper cuts of meat very slowly and 
for a long time. 

7. Baste meat and poultry often while roasting. 

8. Learn to make appetizing, nourishing dishes of the cheaper 
cuts of meat. 

9. Use the internal organs of beef and lamb — liver, kidneys, 
heart and sweetbreads — to increase the vitamins in your 
diet. 

10. Serve Yorkshire pudding with roast beef, dumplings with 
stew and fried apples with pork to give your meat course 
"the perfect touch." 



ROAST BEEF 



Wipe the meat with a clean damp cloth. Do not wash it. Dredge with flour. 
Place in roasting pan and put J£ teaspoon salt, J4 teaspoon pepper and 2 table- 
spoons Crisco in the pan. Put in a very hot oven (500 degrees F.) for 15 to 20 
minutes. Reduce heat to hot oven (400 degrees F.) and cook, allowing. 8 to 10 
minutes to a pound for standing roast and 10 to 12 minutes for a rolled roast, 
if it is wanted rare. Baste frequently. Do not add water to the roast. Serve 
with Yorkshire Pudding (page 101). 



<JftfEAT and Poultry 89 



BRAISED BEEF 

23^ pounds lower part of rump 3 tablespoons Crisco 

1 teaspoon salt J^ cup carrots, cut in slices 

¥% teaspoon pepper Y2 cup onions, cut in slices 

3 tablespoons flour 3^ CU P celery, cut in pieces 

2 cups boiling water 
Wipe meat with a clean damp cloth and cut in 3 inch cubes. Sprinkle with 
salt, pepper and flour. Put Crisco in frying pan and when hot add the meat 
and brown slightly. Put meat in a baking dish, add carrots, onions, celery 
and water. Cover tightly and bake in a moderate oven (325 degrees F.) 3 hours 
or until meat is tender. Thicken the stock with a little flour mixed to a smooth 
paste with water. 

POT ROAST A LA MODE 

4 pounds beef (round) 3^ CU P carrots, cut in cubes 

1 teaspoon salt H cup celery, cut in pieces 
J/g teaspoon pepper H cup turnip, cut in cubes 

2 tablespoons flour 3^ bay leaf 

2 tablespoons Crisco Sprig of parsley 

Wipe meat with a clean damp cloth. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour. 
Melt Crisco in a frying pan and brown the surface of the meat. Put meat in a 
saucepan, add carrots, celery, turnips, bay leaf and parsley. Add boiling 
water to half cover the meat. Cover and simmer slowly about 4 hours, until 
meat is tender. Put meat on a hot platter. Strain liquid from the vegetables 
and put them around the meat. Thicken the stock with a little flour mixed 
to a smooth paste with cold water. Add more seasonings, if necessary. 

BEEF STEW 

1 small onion 3 cups water 

2 tablespoons Crisco 6 small onions 

2 pounds beef, top round 13^2 cups sliced carrots 

5 tablespoons flour Y% teaspoon pepper 

3 medium-sized tomatoes 13^ teaspoons salt 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley Few grains cayenne 

3^ cup water 
Slice onion and cook slowly in Crisco 5 minutes. Cut beef in uniform pieces. 
Sprinkle with 2 tablespoons of the flour and a little salt and pepper. Brown 
meat in the Crisco, turning often. Add tomatoes, parsley and water and cook 
slowly about 1 hour. Add onions and carrots, salt, pepper and cayenne and 
cook 1 hour longer. Thicken gravy with 3 tablespoons flour and ]^ cup water 
mixed to a smooth paste and bring to the boiling point. Serve hot. 

ROLLED FLANK STEAK 

Select a flank steak weighing about \ l /2 pounds. Wipe meat with a clean damp 
cloth. Sprinkle with salt. Spread Poultry Stuffing (page 101) on meat. Roll 
like a jelly roll and fasten ends together with skewers. Put in a baking dish 



90 The (s>4rt of Rooking and Serving 



and add 1 cup boiling water. Brown in a very hot oven (500 degrees F.) 15 
minutes. Cover and cook slowly in a moderate oven (325 degrees F.) 1 hour or 
until meat is tender. Remove to a hot platter. Thicken the stock with a 
little flour mixed to a smooth paste with cold water. Slice meat and serve 
with the gravy. 

SWISS STEAK 

2 pounds beef, round 1 small onion, chopped 

Y2 cup flour 2 tablespoons Crisco 

Yz teaspoon salt 34 cup chopped green pepper 

Y teaspoon pepper 1 cup stewed or canned tomatoes 

1 cup boiling water 
Wipe meat with a clean damp cloth. Cut in 2 inch square pieces. Mix flour, 
salt and pepper together. Pound flour into the meat with a wooden potato 
masher. Brown onion and meat in the Crisco. Add green pepper, tomatoes 
and water. Cover and cook slowly 2 hours or until meat is tender. The stock 
may be thickened more with a little flour mixed to a smooth paste with cold 
water. 

BEEFSTEAK PIE 

2 pounds chuck steak 1 cup cooked carrots, cut in cubes 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups cooked potatoes, cut in cubes 
}/$ teaspoon pepper 1 cup cooked celery, cut in pieces 

2 tablespoons flour 6 cooked medium-sized onions 

3 tablespoons cold water 2 tablespoons Crisco 

Wipe meat with a clean damp cloth, cut in 1 inch cubes and sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Cover meat with boiling water and simmer for 1 hour or until 
meat is tender. Put the meat in a baking dish. Thicken the stock with the 
flour mixed to a paste with the water. Add carrots, potatoes, celery and 
onions. Pour the gravy over it and dot with Crisco. Add more seasoning if 
necessary. Cover top with Plain Pastry (page 178). Bake in a quick oven 
(450 degrees F.) 10 minutes. Reduce the heat to a moderate oven (325 degrees 
F.) and bake 20 to 25 minutes. 

HAMBURG BALLS 

1 pound round steak, ground 34 CU P milk 

2 eggs 2 tablespoons chopped onion 
% cup soft bread crumbs 1 tablespoon Crisco 

1 teaspoon salt 13^ tablespoons flour 

Y teaspoon pepper 1% cups boiling water 

Mix meat, beaten eggs, bread crumbs, salt, pepper and milk together. Fry 
onion in Crisco until a delicate brown and add to the meat mixture. Form 
in small flat circular cakes and sprinkle with flour. Fry on both sides in a 
small amount of Crisco until brown. Remove the cakes to a hot platter. Add 
flour to the Crisco in the pan and cook until a delicate brown, stirring con- 
stantly. Add water and bring to the boiling point, mixing well. Pour around 
the meat balls. 



zMeat and Poultry 91 



SCALLOPED BEEF 

3 cups chopped cold cooked beef \ x /2 cups medium white sauce 
1 tablespoon chopped parsley 13^ cups soft bread crumbs 

1 teaspoon onion juice 
Mix beef, parsley and onion juice with the White Sauce (page 113). Put a layer 
of crumbs in the bottom of a greased baking dish and cover with layer of 
meat and sauce. Repeat the process until all the ingredients are used, having 
a layer of bread crumbs on top. Bake in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 15 to 20 
minutes or until crumbs are brown. 

HASH 

Chop cold roast beef, or steak, and add an equal amount of chopped cold cooked 
potatoes. Season with salt, pepper, onion juice and a few drops Worcestershire 
sauce. Moisten with a small amount of water. Melt a little Crisco in a 
frying pan, add meat mixture and spread evenly. Cover and fry slowly until a 
delicate brown on the bottom. Fold over like an omelet and turn out on a hot 
platter and garnish with parsley. Serve with Tomato Sauce (page 116) if 
desired. 

CREAMED BEEF ON TOAST 

3^2 pound dried beef 2 cups medium white sauce 

Pour boiling water over the dried beef to remove some of the salt. Drain. 
Follow the recipe for White Sauce (page 113), using 34 teaspoon salt in place of 
% teaspoon called for in the recipe. Add the beef and heat thoroughly. Serve 
on hot platter garnished with toast points. 

ROAST LEG OF LAMB 

Wipe leg of lamb with a clean, damp cloth. Rub with Crisco and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Put in a roasting pan with a little water and 1 teaspoon 
Worcestershire sauce. Bake in a very hot oven (460 degrees F.) for 15 min- 
utes. Reduce the temperature to a moderate oven (350 degrees F.) for remain- 
ing time, allowing 15 to 20 minutes per pound. Baste every half hour, adding 
more hot water if necessary. Remove lamb to a hot platter. Pour off the 
fat leaving 2 tablespoons in the pan. Add 4 tablespoons flour and cook until 
brown. Add 2 cups hot water and bring to the boiling point, stirring constantly. 
Cook 5 minutes longer. Season with salt and pepper. Serve with the lamb. 

STUFFED SHOULDER OF LAMB 

1 shoulder of lamb 2 cups soft bread crumbs 
Salt 1 teaspoon chopped mint 
Pepper 1 tablespoon chopped celery leaves 

2 tablespoons chopped onion % teaspoon salt 

5 tablespoons Crisco 3^8 teaspoon pepper 

Have the shoulder blade removed. This leaves a pocket for the stuffing. 
Wipe meat with a clean, damp cloth, spread with 2 tablespoons Crisco and 
sprinkle the pocket and surface of the lamb with salt and pepper. Fry onion 



92 The ^rt of Rooking and Serving 



in 3 tablespoons Crisco until a delicate brown. Add bread crumbs, mint, 
celery leaves, salt and pepper. Mix well. Fill pocket with stuffing. Put in 
a roasting pan and add a little hot water to cover bottom of pan. Bake in a 
very hot oven (460 degrees F.) 15 minutes. Reduce the heat to a moderate 
oven (350 degrees F.) for remaining time, allowing 15 to 20 minutes per pound. 
Baste every half hour, adding more hot water if necessary. 

CURRIED LAMB AND RICE 

2 : 2 pounds lamb, shoulder l 1 ^ tablespoons curry powder 

2 tablespoons Crisco 2 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons water 

1 s teaspoon pepper 3 cups boiled rice 

Wipe lamb with a clean, damp cloth. Cut into medium-size pieces and re- 
move the fat. Melt Crisco in a frying pan, add lamb and cook until a delicate 
brown. Cover with boiling water. Add salt, pepper and curry powder mixed 
with a little cold water. Cover and simmer for about 2}4 hours or until lamb 
is tender. Make a smooth paste of the flour and water and add enough to 
thicken the liquid. Mound hot rice in center of a hot platter and pour the 
curried lamb around it. 

IRISH STEW 

3 pounds lamb (forequarter) 3 cups potatoes, cut in cubes 
1 cup carrots, cut in cubes 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup turnips, cut in cubes J § teaspoon pepper 

1 onion, sliced 
Wipe meat with a clean, damp cloth, and cut in 2 inch square pieces. Put in a 
kettle, cover with boiling water and cook slowly for l l /o hours or until tender. 
Add carrots, turnips, onion, salt, pepper and cook for 30 minutes. Add pota- 
toes and cook 15 minutes longer. Thicken with a little flour mixed to a paste 
with cold water. 

LAMB EX CASSEROLE 

3 cups cold cooked lamb, cut in pieces 1 cup cooked potato balls 
1 tablespoon Crisco 8 small onions, cooked 

1 cup cooked carrots, cut in cubes Left over gravy 

Brown lamb in Crisco. Put in a baking dish. Add carrots, potato balls and 
onions. Add left over gravy and enough hot water to moisten. Season with 
salt and pepper. Cover and bake in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 20 to 25 
minutes. 

SCALLOPED LAMB 

2 cups cooked lamb, cut in small pieces 1 cup soft bread crumbs 

2 cups medium white sauce 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Mix lamb and White Sauce (page 113), together. Put a layer of lamb in a 
greased casserole or baking dish, add a layer of bread crumbs and sprinkle with 
parsley. Repeat this process until all the ingredients are used, having a 
layer of crumbs on top. Bake in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 20 to 25 minutes 
or until crumbs are brown. 



<JfrfEAT and Poultry 93 



SHEPHERD S PIE 

Chop cold cooked lamb and moisten with left over gravy. Put in a casserole 
or baking dish and dot with small pieces of Crisco. Cover with hot Mashed 
Potatoes (page 109). Spread top with beaten egg yolk mixed with 2 teaspoons 
cold water. Bake in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 20 minutes or until brown. 
For individual pies bake in small ramekins or custard cups 15 minutes. 

MINCED LAMB ON TOAST 

Chop cold cooked lamb in small pieces. Follow recipe for medium White 
Sauce (page 113). To \]/2 cups meat add 1 cup sauce, and 1 teaspoon chopped 
parsley. Serve on hot toast. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON 

Wipe meat with a clean, damp cloth. Put in a kettle and cover with boiling 
water. Cover the kettle and bring quickly to the boiling point. Boil 10 
minutes and skim. Simmer slowly until tender. When half done add salt. 
Serve with Caper Sauce (page 114). 

ROAST STUFFED VEAL 

Select a shoulder of veal and have it boned. Wipe with a damp cloth and 
stuff with Poultry Stuffing (page 101). Put in a baking pan, spread with Crisco 
and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Brown in a very hot oven (500 degrees F.) 
15 minutes. Add 1 cup water. Reduce heat to a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 
and cook until done, allowing 25 to 30 minutes per pound. Baste occasionally, 
adding more water when necessary. 

INDIVIDUAL VEAL CUTLETS 

2 pounds veal cutlet 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons water 

J/g teaspoon pepper 2 tablespoons Crisco 

% cup dried bread crumbs 1 cup hot water 

Cut veal into 6 pieces. Wipe with a clean, damp cloth, and sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Roll in bread crumbs, dip in well-beaten egg diluted with water 
and roll again in crumbs. Melt Crisco in an iron frying pan. Put in the cutlets 
and brown on both sides. Add the hot water and simmer until tender, about 
45 to 50 minutes. Remove them and thicken the stock with a little flour 
mixed to a smooth paste with cold water. Pour the sauce over the cutlets. 

VEAL LOAF 

3 pounds raw, lean veal, chopped V/2 teaspoons salt 
% cup cracker crumbs Y% teaspoon pepper 

1 egg 1 tablespoon chopped onion 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley J/g teaspoon nutmeg 

2 tablespoons melted Crisco }/£ cup milk 

Mix veal, cracker crumbs, beaten egg, parsley, Crisco, salt, pepper, onion and 
nutmeg together. Moisten with milk. Pack in a greased small loaf pan. 



94 The ^rt of Rooking and Jerving 



Spread top with Crisco. Bake in a moderate oven (525 degrees F.) 1 hour. 
Prick top with fork to allow meat to absorb the Crisco. Baste occasionally 
with melted Crisco and a little hot water. Serve hot with Tomato Sauce 
(page 116), or cold with catsup or pickles. 

VEAL PIE 

2 ! 2 pounds knuckle of veal 2 cups water 

1 teaspoon salt J 2 cup sliced carrots 

3 s teaspoon pepper 2 tablespoons chopped parsley 

2 tablespoons Crisco 2 tablespoons flour 
2 slices onion }± cup water 

2 cups celery, cut in pieces Plain pastry 

Cut meat from the knuckle in small pieces (keep bone to use in making soup 
stock). Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Melt Crisco, add onion and cook 
slowly 5 minutes. Remove onion from pan and put in the veal. Cook until 
meat is brown, stirring frequently. Add celery and water, cover and simmer 
until meat is tender. Add a little water to the meat as liquid boils away. Add 
raw carrots and parsley and more salt and pepper if necessary. Cook 20 min- 
utes longer. Thicken with the flour and water mixed to a smooth paste. Put 
in a baking dish and cover with Plain Pastry (page 17S). Bake in a quick oven 
(450 degrees F.) 15 to 20 minutes or until brown. 

CURRIED VEAL AND RICE 

Follow recipe for Curried Lamb and Rice (page 92), using three pounds of veal 
(knuckle) instead of the lamb. 

VEAL SOUFFLE 

4 egg yolks 2 cups cooked ground veal 

13 2 c^ps very thick white sauce l o teaspoon salt 

4 egg whites 
Add beaten egg yolks to the hot White Sauce (page 113), and mix well. Add the 
veal and salt. Cool, and fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Put in a 
greased casserole or baking dish set in a pan of hot water and bake in a moder- 
ate oven ^525 degrees F. 50 to 60 minutes. 

CROWN ROAST PORK 

Select the choicest ribs from two loins of pork. Scrape fatty portions from the 
bone between the ribs as far as the lean meat and trim off. Shape both pieces 
in a semi-circle having ribs outside and sew pieces together to form a circle 
or crown. Trim ends o^ bone evenly and put small cubes of salt pork on 
them to prevent the bones from burning. Put roast in a roasting pan and add 
ip hot water. Spread with softened Crisco and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Bake in a very hot oven (460 degrees F.) 15 minutes, reduce the heat 
to a moderate oven 550 degrees F^ and bake until well done, allowing 20 to 25 
minutes per pound. Baste even,' 15 minutes while cooking, adding more hot 
water if necessary. 



(JWeat and Poultry 95 



PORK CHOPS EN CASSEROLE WITH POTATOES 

7 medium-sized potatoes }/% teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons flour 3 tablespoons Crisco 

1 teaspoon salt 3 cups milk 

6 pork chops 
Wash and pare potatoes and cut in thin slices. Put a layer in a greased baking 
dish and sprinkle with flour, salt and pepper. Dot with small bits of Crisco. 
Add another layer of potatoes and seasoning and repeat until all the ingredients 
are used. Pour the milk over it. Lay pork chops on top. Bake in a moderate 
oven (325 degrees F.) 1 to 1*^ hours or until potatoes are tender. 



STUFFED PORK TENDERLOIN 

2 pork tenderloins Salt 

2 cups poultry stuffing Pepper 

Crisco 
Have each loin split but not cut through. Open out flat. Sprinkle one loin 
with salt and pepper. Cover the other with Poultry Stuffing (page 101). Put 
the two together and tie securely. Spread with Crisco and sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Bake in a moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 50 to 60 minutes. 
Baste often with Crisco melted in hot water. Garnish with Fried Apple Rings 
(page 101). 

SAUSAGES AND SWEET POTATOES 

2 pounds sweet pocatoes J4 CU P water 

}/2 cup sugar 2 tablespoons Crisco 

x /l cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

1 pound sausages 
Parboil sweet potatoes 15 minutes. Peel and slice in strips like French fried 
potatoes. Put in a greased baking dish. Put sugar, brown sugar, water, 
Crisco and salt in a saucepan and boil 3 minutes. Pour syrup over the sweet 
potatoes. Bake in a moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 30 to 40 minutes. Put 
sausages on top of potatoes. Cook one-half hour longer or until potatoes and 
sausages are tender. 

SAUSAGE TURNOVERS 

1 cup sausage meat 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

1 cup chopped ham 1 egg 

1 cup cooked rice Plain pastry 

Cook sausage meat in a frying pan, slowly, stirring constantly until done, but 
not browned — about 10 minutes. Drain off the fat. Add ham, rice and 
Worcestershire sauce and mix well. Add well-beaten egg. Roll Plain Pastry 
(page 178) very thin and cut in 4 inch squares. Put 2 tablespoons of the meat 
mixture in the center of each square. Moisten edges with water and fold over 
to form triangles. Press edges together with tines of a fork, and prick the 
tops. Bake in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 15 to 20 minutes. 



96 The zArt of (7 ooking and Serving 



BAKED VIRGINIA HAM 

Put ham in a deep pot, cover with cold water and bring to the boiling point 
quickly. Reduce heat and simmer 2 or 3 hours or until tender. Take from 
pot and remove the skin. Cover with brown sugar and stick whole cloves 
into the ham about 2 inches apart. Sprinkle with fine bread crumbs. Put in 
a roasting pan with 3^ CU P water. Brown in a moderate oven (350 degrees 
F.) 25 to 30 minutes. 

BROILED HAM 

Spread thin slices of smoked ham with Crisco and sprinkle generously with 
brown sugar. Broil in a very hot oven (550 degrees F.) 10 minutes or until 
heated thoroughly. Serve with Fried Bananas (page 50). 

HAM SOUFFLE 

Follow recipe for Veal Souffle (page 94), using 2 cups ground cooked ham 
instead of the veal and omitting the salt. 

BEEF KIDNEY STEW 

2 beef kidneys 3 medium-sized potatoes 

2 tablespoons Crisco 1 cup stewed or canned tomatoes 

2 cups water 1 teaspoon salt 

1 small onion, sliced J^ teaspoon paprika 

2 cups sliced carrots 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
Soak kidneys in cold water 1 hour. Drain. Pour boiling water over them to 
blanch. Remove tubes and skin and cut in pieces. Sprinkle with salt, pepper 
and flour. Melt Crisco in frying pan and saute kidneys until brown. Add 
water, onion and carrots. Cover and cook slowly for 30 minutes. Add pota- 
toes, cut in slices, tomatoes, salt, paprika and Worcestershire sauce. Cook 
20 to 30 minutes longer or until potatoes are tender. 

STUFFED HEART EN CASSEROLE 

1 beef heart ingredients for sauce 

1 cup dried bread crumbs 

1 tablespoon melted Crisco * C HP stewed or canned tomatoes 

1 slice onion, chopped 1 suce onion 

1 teaspoon sugar M teaspoon salt > 

2 tablespoons stewed or canned <^ teaspoon paprika 

tomatoes /2 CU P celery, cut in pieces 

Yi teaspoon salt * tablespoon Crisco 

}/$ teaspoon pepper 
Soak the heart in cold water 1 hour. Remove the muscles and arteries and 
every particle of blood. Parboil for 20 minutes. Make a stuffing of the bread 
crumbs, Crisco, onion, sugar, tomatoes, salt and pepper. Fill the heart with 
this mixture and tie securely. Place in a covered casserole. Mix the ingre- 
dients for the sauce and pour over the stuffed heart. Dot with Crisco and bake 
in moderate oven (325 degrees F.) for 3 hours. Add more hot water as liquid 
cooks away. Thicken the gravy, if desired, with a little flour and water mixed 
to a smooth paste. 



cJWeat and Poultry 97 



BOILED BEEF TONGUE 

1 fresh beef tongue 2 sprigs parsley 

1 carrot, sliced H bay leaf 

1 onion, sliced H teaspoon peppercorns 

2 stalks celery, cut in pieces 2 cloves 

2 teaspoons salt 

Wash tongue thoroughly. Put in a deep kettle. Cover with water and add 
carrot, onion, celery, parsley, bay leaf, peppercorns, cloves and salt. Bring 
quickly to the boiling point. Reduce heat and simmer slowly 3 hours or until 
tongue is tender. Remove from the pot. Cut off the throat part and remove 
skin from tongue. Serve hot with Almond and Raisin Sauce (page 114). The 
tongue is delicious cut in slices and served cold. The meat from the throat 
end makes good hash and the water in which it is cooked is rich soup stock. 

SAUTEED LAMB KIDNEYS 

6 small lamb kidneys Y% teaspoon pepper 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons flour 

1 tablespoon Crisco 

Soak kidneys in cold water 1 hour. Pour boiling water over them to blanch. 
Drain and remove tubes and skin. Cut kidneys in halves and then in quarters. 
Sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour. Melt Crisco in frying pan and saute 
kidneys until tender. Serve on toast with crisp bacon. 

BRAISED LIVER 

2 cups celery, cut in small pieces }/± cup water 
\}/2 pounds liver (unsliced) 8 small carrots 

1 teaspoon salt 8 small onions 

Y% teaspoon pepper 2 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons Crisco Bacon 

Put celery in bottom of a greased covered casserole or baking dish. Sprinkle 
liver with salt and pepper. Put it on top of celery and dot with bits of Crisco. 
Add the water and cover. Bake in a moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 45 minutes 
or until liver and celery are tender. Cook carrots and onions in a small amount 
of boiling salted water until tender and put them in the casserole. Save 
vegetable stock, thicken with the flour mixed to a smooth paste with a little 
cold water, and pour over the liver. Cook 15 minutes longer. Serve hot with 
crisp bacon. 

BREADED SWEETBREADS 

2 pairs sweetbreads 3^ teaspoon salt 

1 sprig parsley 1 cup fine dry bread crumbs 

1 stalk celery 1 egg 

2 tablespoons water 

Soak sweetbreads in salt water 1 hour. Drain. Put in saucepan with parsley, 
celery and salt and enough water to cover. Bring to boiling point. Reduce 



98 The *Art of Rooking and Jerving 



heat and cook slowly 30 minutes. Cool in the stock in which they are cooked. 
Remove fat and connective tissue from the sweetbreads and cut in uniform 
pieces. Dip in crumbs then in slightly beaten egg diluted with water and again 
in crumbs. Fry in deep hot Crisco until brown. Drain on unglazed paper. 

ROAST CHICKEN 

Singe, dress, wash and wipe with a clean, damp cloth a young roasting 
chicken. Stuff with Poultry Stuffing (page 101). Tie securely in shape, with 
wings and legs close to the body. Spread with melted Crisco and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Put in a quick oven (450 degrees F.) 15 minutes. Add 
1 cup water. Reduce heat to moderate oven (350 degrees F.), and cook until 
done, allowing 15 minutes to a pound. Baste often, adding more hot water if 
necessary. Serve with Giblet Gravy (page 100). 

ROAST CAPON 

Prepare and cook the same as roast chicken. Oyster Stuffing (page 100) is nice 
with capon. 

FRIED CHICKEN 

Select 2 young frying chickens weighing about 23^ to 3 pounds each. Clean, 
singe and disjoint. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and roll in flour. Melt 
enough Crisco in a large iron frying pan to have it about 1 inch deep. When 
hot place the pieces of chicken in it. Cover and fry slowly until a delicate 
brown, turning the pieces occasionally. This will require about 30 minutes. 
Remove chicken to a hot platter. Garnish with parsley. 

FRICASSEE CHICKEN 

Dress, clean, singe and disjoint a year-old fowl. Sprinkle with salt and pepper 
and roll in flour. Melt enough Crisco to cover bottom of a large iron frying 
pan. Put in the chicken and fry on both sides until a delicate brown. Remove 
to a saucepan and cover with boiling water. Cover and cook slowly until the 
chicken is tender, allowing about 20 minutes per pound. When half done add 
salt and pepper. Remove the chicken to a hot platter and sprinkle with a 
little chopped parsley. Make a gravy of the stock, thickened with a little 
flour mixed to a smooth paste with cold water. 

CHICKEN PIE 

Dress, clean and singe a fowl. Put in a saucepan with boiling water to cover. 
Add a sliced carrot, 1 stalk celery, 1 sprig parsley and 1 slice onion. Bring to 
the boiling point; cover and simmer until fowl is tender, allowing about 30 
minutes to the pound. When half done season with salt and pepper. Remove 
skin of the fowl and cut meat from the bones, keeping it in large pieces. Put in 
a baking dish. Boil chicken stock down to 3 cups, strain and skim off most of 
the fat. Mix 4 tablespoons flour to a smooth paste with cold water and add to 
the stock. Bring to the boiling point, stirring constantly, and add to the 
chicken, with J^ pound mushrooms sliced and sauteed in 2 tablespoons Crisco. 
Cover with Plain Pastry (page 178). Bake in a quick oven (450 degrees F.) 
15 minutes or until crust is brown. 



zJWeat and Poultry 99 



CHICKEN POT PIE 

4 pounds roasting chicken Dumplings 

6 medium-sized potatoes 2 tablespoons Crisco 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons flour 

Y% teaspoon pepper 
Clean, singe, wash and disjoint chicken. Put in a saucepan, add enough hot 
water to cover and bring to the boiling point. Cover and cook slowly until 
chicken is about tender. Add potatoes, salt and pepper and cook until pota- 
toes are soft, about 20 minutes. Place Dumplings (page 101) on top of the 
chicken and potatoes. Cover tightly and cook 10 minutes longer until dump- 
lings are light. Remove chicken, potato and dumplings to a hot platter. 
Melt Crisco, mix with the flour to a smooth paste, add to the stock and bring 
to the boiling point. Serve with the chicken. 

AMERICAN CHICKEN CHOP SUEY 

2 cups cold chicken }/% teaspoon pepper 

1 cup cooked celery 1 tablespoon Crisco 

\}/2 cups cooked rice 2 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon salt 1J^ cups chicken stock 

Cut chicken and celery in thin strips before measuring. Mix them with the 
rice, salt and pepper. Melt Crisco, add flour and mix well. Add stock slowly 
and bring to the boiling point, stirring constantly. Add the chicken mixture 
and heat thoroughly. One cup of cooked mushrooms may be added. 

AMERICAN PORK CHOP SUEY 

Follow recipe for American Chicken Chop Suey, using cooked pork instead of 
the chicken. 

ROAST DUCK 

Dress, singe, wash and wipe a roasting duck. Stuff with Celery and Olive 
Stuffing (page 100). Tie securely in shape with wings and legs close to the body. 
Spread with melted Crisco and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Put in a quick 
oven (450 degrees F.) for 15 minutes. Add 1 cup water. Reduce heat to 
moderate oven (350 degrees F.) and cook until done, allowing 20 minutes to a 
pound. Baste often, adding more hot water if necessary. Serve with apple 
sauce. 

ROAST GOOSE 

Select a young goose not over 6 or 7 months old. Singe, dress, wash and wipe 
dry. Tie securely in shape, with wings and legs close to the body. Rub the 
cut surface of an onion over the skin. Spread with Crisco and sprinkle inside 
and out with salt, pepper and powdered sage. Reserve the neck, gizzard and 
liver and simmer in just enough water to cover, to make the gravy. The goose 
need not be stuffed unless a stuffing of mashed potatoes is used. Put in a 
quick oven (450 degrees F.) for 15 minutes. Add 1 cup water. Reduce heat 
to 350 degrees F., and cook until done, allowing 20 minutes to the pound. 
Baste often, adding more hot water if necessary. Serve garnished with roasted 



100 The *Art of Rooking and Serving 



apples or Fried Apple Rings (page 101). To make the gravy follow recipe 
for Giblet Gravy below. 

ROAST TURKEY 

Singe, dress, wash and wipe the turkey with a damp cloth. Slip back the skin 
from the neck and cut off neck close to body. The skin will turn back and keep 
in the stuffing. Cut off the tips of wings and cook neck, wings, gizzard and 
liver in water to cover, to use for the gravy. Fill the turkey with Chestnut 
Stuffing below. Tie in shape with wings and legs close to the body. Spread 
with melted Crisco and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Put in a roasting pan 
in a quick oven (450 degrees F.) for 15 minutes. Add 1 cup water. Reduce 
heat to moderate oven (350 degrees F.) and cook until tender allowing 15 to 
20 minutes to the pound. Baste often, adding more hot water if necessary. 
A 10 pound turkey will cook in about 3 hours. 

GIBLET GRAVY 

Pour off the fat from the pan in which the poultry has been roasted, saving 
4 tablespoons. Add 3 tablespoons flour and stir until it browns. Measure 
water in which the giblets were cooked and add enough water to make 3 cups. 
Add to the browned flour and stir until smooth and thickened. Add liver, 
gizzard and heart, chopped fine. Season with salt and pepper. Reheat and 
serve in hot gravy boat with the poultry. 

CELERY AND OLIVE STUFFING 

3 cups soft bread crumbs 34 teaspoon pepper 

1 cup chopped celery 3^ teaspoon paprika 

3^ cup chopped olives Few drops onion juice 

1 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons Crisco 

}/2 cup hot water 
Mix bread crumbs, celery, olives, salt, pepper, paprika and onion juice. Moisten 
with Crisco, melted in hot water. Mix thoroughly. 

CHESTNUT STUFFING 

3 cups soft bread crumbs 3 tablespoons Crisco 

1 teaspoon salt 34 cup hot milk 

\i teaspoon pepper 2 cups boiled French chestnuts 

Mix bread crumbs, salt and pepper. Moisten with Crisco, melted in the hot 

milk. Chop the chestnuts rather fine and add to the bread crumb mixture. 
Mix thoroughly. 

OYSTER STUFFING 

3 cups soft bread crumbs 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 teaspoon salt 25 oysters (1 pint) 

}/$ teaspoon pepper 2 tablespoons Crisco 

Few drops onion juice 34 cup oyster juice 
Mix crumbs, salt, pepper, onion juice and parsley. Clean oysters, removing 

particles of shell, and add to the crumbs. Moisten with Crisco melted in 
hot oyster juice. Mix thoroughly. 



cJWeat and Poultry 101 



PEANUT STUFFING 

3 cups soft bread crumbs J/g teaspoon pepper 
% cup chopped peanuts 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

3^2 teaspoon onion juice 2 tablespoons Crisco 

1 teaspoon salt 3^ CU P stock or water 

Mix bread crumbs and peanuts. Add onion juice, salt, pepper and parsley. 
Moisten with Crisco melted in hot stock or water. Mix thoroughly. 



POULTRY STUFFING 

1 small onion 1 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons Crisco Y% teaspoon pepper 

3 cups soft bread crumbs 1 teaspoon poultry seasoning 

Slice onion and fry in Crisco until a delicate brown. Add bread crumbs, salt, 
pepper and poultry seasoning and mix well. 



FRIED APPLE RINGS 

Wash, core apples and cut in */i inch slices. Dip slices in sugar. Fry in a 
small amount of Crisco until apples are tender. Sprinkle with salt. Serve 
with roast pork. 

DUMPLINGS 

2 cups flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons Crisco 

% cup milk 

Mix and sift flour, salt and baking powder. Cut in Crisco with a knife or rub 
in with the finger tips. Add milk to make a soft dough. Drop on top of 
chicken or meat stew, cover closely and steam 15 to 20 minutes without remov- 
ing the cover. 



YORKSHIRE PUDDING 

1 cup flour 1 cup milk 

¥2 teaspoon baking powder 2 egg yolks 

}/2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon melted Crisco 

2 egg whites 

Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt. Add milk, beaten egg yolks and 
Crisco. Mix well. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Cover the bottom 
of an earthenware baking dish with drippings from roast beef. Pour the batter 
into the baking dish. Bake in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) about 20 minutes. 
Baste with drippings from the roast after it is well risen. Cut in squares and 
serve on platter with the roast. 



CHAPTER XI 



Vegetables 

IN THE chapter on nutrition it was explained how important 
a part vegetables play in the diet. But remember when 
you buy vegetables that price is no indication of food value. 
Cabbage, for instance, a vegetable which can be obtained at 
almost any season of the year and in almost any locality at a 
low price, is one of the most valuable foods we have, whereas 
mushrooms, almost the highest priced of vegetables, have very 
little food value. 

The homemaker must learn to cook the cheaper vegetables 
in novel and appetizing ways. Cabbage, turnips, squash and 
carrots hold many surprises for the family of the good cook. 
Try some of the recipes in this chapter and see! 

Most vegetables should be cooked as quickly as possible and 
in very little water so that their nutritious substances will not 
be boiled away. Boiling vegetables in a large quantity of 
water is no longer considered the best way. The only excep- 
tions to this rule are potatoes, dried beans and peas and the 
other starchy vegetables which should be cooked slowly in 
plenty of water. Whenever any water is left from cooking 
vegetables save it and use it for soup (page 62). 

Vegetables contain very little fat. Potatoes, indeed, are 
mostly starch and dry eating unless fat in some form is added 
to them. When served with sauces made of Crisco, or mashed 
and beaten up to a fluff with Crisco and hot milk, or scalloped 
with Crisco dotted over the top, or prepared in any of the 
ways suggested in this chapter, the potato takes a new lease 
on life and grows in popularity. 

Not only does the new super-creamed Crisco add food value 
to vegetables with which it is cooked but, in the recipes where 
certain vegetables are sauteed, or cooked in a small amount of 

[102] 



Vegetables 103 



Crisco, a most delicious flavor is developed which cannot be 
obtained by any other method of cookery. Hot Crisco brings 
out their most delicate characteristics and makes them tempt- 
ingly crisp and tender. 

SUCCESS SECRETS 

1. Buy vegetables in their season. Out of season they lack 
flavor and are expensive. 

2. Don't buy vegetables that are old or wilted, moldy or 
over-ripe. 

3. Buy green vegetables in small quantities as you need 
them. Buy winter vegetables in larger amounts, if you 
have space to store them. 

4. Soak green vegetables in cold water to make them fresh 
and crisp. Soak potatoes in cold water to make them 
mealy when cooked. 

5. Wash all vegetables carefully in cold water before cooking. 

6. Cook vegetables in boiling salted water quickly. Use as 
little water as possible. 

7. Don't allow potatoes to stand in water after they are 
cooked. Drain immediately and keep hot over water. 

8. Include vegetables in your diet every day; they are neces- 
sary to good health. 

9. Save small amounts of left over vegetables for salads, 
soups, fritters or croquettes. 



ASPARAGUS BEARNAISE 

Wash a bunch of asparagus and scrape the lower stalks. Cut the stalks an 
even length. Divide them in individual portions according to the number to 
be served and tie in bunches. Cook in boiling salted water 25 to 35 minutes. 
Drain. Untie and serve each bunch on a slice of toast with Bearnaise Sauce 
(page 114). 

BAKED BEANS 

2 cups dried beans l}/£ teaspoons salt 

}/± cup molasses Y% teaspoon pepper 

% teaspoon mustard 2 cups hot water 

2 tablespoons Crisco 
Wash and pick over beans and soak over night. Drain. Cook slowly in 
boiling salted water about \]4 hours. Drain and put in a greased covered 



104 The cyfRT of Rooking and Serving 



baking dish or bean pot. Mix molasses, mustard, salt, pepper and water 
together and pour over the beans. Dot with small bits of Crisco. Cover and 
bake in a moderate oven (325 degrees F.) 3 hours or until beans are soft. Un- 
cover the last half hour to allow the beans to brown. Serve with slices of 
crisp bacon or broiled sausages. 

STRING BEANS 

Remove strings from green or wax beans. Cut through lengthwise and then 
in halves crosswise. Cook in a small amount of boiling water until tender, 
adding a little salt during the last few minutes of cooking. Drain and serve 
at once. 

Left over beans may be reheated in medium White Sauce (page 113). 

BEETS PIQUANTE 

1 tablespoon Crisco 1 tablespoon sugar 
34 cup water 1 teaspoon salt 

34 cup vinegar }/$ teaspoon pepper 

6 small beets 
Cook beets in boiling salted water until tender. Melt Crisco and add water, 
vinegar, sugar, salt and pepper and bring to the boiling point. Remove skins 
of beets. Slice and reheat in sauce. Serve very hot. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS 

Wash and clean 1 quart of Brussels sprouts and remove any withered leaves. 
Soak in cold salt water for 1 hour. Drain. Cover with boiling salted water 
and cook 20 to 25 minutes in uncovered saucepan. Drain and heat in 1% 
cups medium White Sauce (page 113). 

CABBAGE 

Cut a cabbage in quarters and let stand in cold water until crisp. Shred and 
discard the hard core. Cook in a small amount of boiling salted water 20 
minutes. Drain and season with salt and pepper. 

DIFFERENT CABBAGE 

5 tablespoons Crisco }/± cup water 

6 cups finely shredded cabbage 1 tablespoon sugar 
34 cup milk or cream 34 teaspoon mustard 

3^ teaspoon salt 
Melt Crisco and fry cabbage in it slowly 10 to 15 minutes. Mix milk, water, 
sugar, mustard and salt together and add to the cabbage. Mix well and 
heat thoroughly. 

SCALLOPED CABBAGE 

3 cups cooked shredded cabbage 1 cup soft bread crumbs 

2 cups medium white sauce 3^ cup grated cheese 

Mix cabbage and White Sauce (page 113) together. Put a layer of cabbage in 
a greased baking dish, add a layer of crumbs and repeat process until all the 
ingredients are used. Sprinkle with cheese. Bake in a hot oven (375 degrees 
F.) about 20 minutes or until brown. 



Vegetables 105 



STEAMED CARROTS 

Wash and scrape small carrots and cut in thin slices. Allow 1 tablespoon 
Crisco to \}/2 cups carrots. Melt Crisco, add carrots, 1 tablespoon chopped 
onion and season with salt and pepper. Cover and steam over a low fire until 
tender. Serve hot. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN 

Soak cauliflower in cold water H hour. Cook in boiling salted water until 
tender. Drain. Put in a baking dish and pour 2 cups medium White Sauce 
(page 113) over it. Sprinkle with Y2 cup grated cheese. Bake in a hot oven 
(375 degrees F.) 25 to 30 minutes. 

CREAMED CELERY 

1 large bunch celery % teaspoon salt 
\}/2 tablespoons Crisco Y% teaspoon pepper 

3 tablespoons flour % CU P celery stock 

% cup milk 
Wash celery thoroughly and cut in x /i inch lengths. Boil in salted water 
50 to 60 minutes or until tender. Drain and reserve % cup of the stock. 
Melt Crisco, add flour, salt and pepper. Add the milk and celery stock and 
bring to the boiling point, stirring constantly. Add the celery and heat 
thoroughly. 

The creamed celery may be put in a baking dish, sprinkled with crumbs and 
grated cheese and baked 20 minutes in a moderate oven (350 degrees F.). 

BAKED CORN 

2 tablespoons Crisco 1 tablespoon sugar 
\}/2 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk }/% teaspoon pepper 

2 cups cooked or canned corn 2 eggs 

Melt Crisco, add flour and mix well. Add milk gradually and bring to the 
boiling point, stirring constantly. Add corn, sugar, salt and pepper and heat 
thoroughly. Remove from fire, add well-beaten eggs and pour into a greased 
baking dish. Bake in a moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 25 minutes, or until 
corn is firm. 

GREEN CORN FRITTERS 

2 cups corn Few grains pepper 

1 egg 1 tablespoon Crisco, melted 

1 teaspoon sugar J4 cup flour 

Y2 teaspoon salt Y teaspoon baking powder 

Score the corn with the tines of a fork and scrape kernels from the cob with 
back of a knife. Add beaten egg, sugar, salt, pepper and melted Crisco. 
Mix and sift flour and baking powder, add to first mixture and mix well. Melt 
a little Crisco in frying pan. When hot, but not smoking, drop batter into it 
by tablespoons and fry on both sides until brown. Drain on unglazed paper. 
Serve immediately. 



:;. The *Akt of Rooking and Jerying 



CUCUMBERS, SWEET AND SOUR 

I m: :-:■:.:-: I.-.m: 1 t^ y-.-lk 

2 1 

4 .i.:Lt ;.:_-:,-. :...— 3t 

: ^ :_: ~iitr .-; :t2:iccr.: -i.: 

'- -_ : _: i : _: :rei~ 1 j ' 

1 ; rti::o: :. :i: nui 

Men !-••:•:.. n: innr. i" .: fry _-.-.:. i- :t„:i:t :::~ - A:: e. :t £ 

-bed and cncmiibcis bfovned. Mix j 
n:. :i".:. nerner ir : :i:r.£2 A;: ::■ 
;-r :,r.-: :: :: . ferve . 

EGGPLANT AU GRATI 
lbrgei 

1 :ti.::o:- :i *. 1 i: !r* :•:■:•-: Jr 

:i': e i,i" : . i.r. : i~: : _ i : ~. :..::: ^ :•: £ . ~ :•:..."!• ;i.":i ~i: 
_:i.. - ~e... i - : ~i.. : r. r_: i .iyer :r. i r:ii:i iiii.r.i' :.f." 
:"rt:t. :i". i-erner i~ : :iyer.re ir i : : *. ~:r :~i.. :.*: :: . 
V".; price::.: _"". . i.. r.'.e .":":: t~*. . : ire .:c. ."i". r. I - i . i • er :: 
::i: .- i : : : :vt: e-A lerreei ; 11 -.-_--: : r _rc.l :reeie ; 

FRIED EGGPLANT 

? i r e :- z e i\r; 1.2.-. : i r. i : _ : :.r. : r... r. : "_ : e •« :i::l: —.it. e i 1 : i - : 
i - e. £.-:__- -.! :-:~ .e i :' ire ;_ :ef r_r. : _: _/r2.r in !.:_:; in 
■oBiir- Dip m tMcfiily beaten egg dilntrd with 2 table spoons wan 

--.-- '- _ :e_ii :■:•:-. fill i~ : : . *ei • :•:--. r :e::er C i '• e r ~ :r 
ir_- : 5 :7 ;- re: In::: rrim = :i II : 

KOHLRABI 

~"i:.- m: :ire in: :_: :.r :r..r. f_:rf LA-tr ~-.:'r :•: Ari; filierl ~irer : 
ow cif-q rJ anal tender, about 40 minu i rs . Drain and heat i 

£i_:e ri.re II; iri;.;: ~:re .:' r.t 1^5.2 r/. 

BAKED MACEDOINE 

1 : ; :_:• rc-.'.rf n:e 
1 bard cooked egg, chopped 

. 11 1 .r: ri'i r. :.". : iti rirs.ey 

- :e2:~CCT.: :i.I 

: - •::-:•: ii.~iii.ef 1 ; ■ 

. : _ : : :•: £t 2 : : m 1 1 

- - :_: r*2ie: - e-e: e 

~e ; _l An -:~i-:c: ly : ;*:: _:.n. ~.i:_re -.r.:£erf L.;-ry A:: urn. me. 
tii 1 * 1 :c::" ":: : .: r. 2 : 2£_ "2 : • r. . f 7. n r.£ . e : " e e : e 1 ~ e r 1 " e * : : i~ z 
bake in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 20 ininu i rv Any combination of cooked 

*' 1 1' : * 1 1 t • . : L" :>:c . ~. 1 n. : 1 . : r. n 1 1 : ... n 1 it 2 ~. -. 1 r : i r r : 1 : ~ 2 ■ 1 e 
r'irine 




Vegetables 107 



ONIONS SAUTE 

2 tablespoons Crisco 1 teaspoon salt 

6 large white onions Y% teaspoon pepper 

J/g teaspoon paprika 
Melt Crisco in a frying pan. Slice onions into it. Add salt, pepper and 
paprika and mix well. Cover tightly and cook slowly about 35 minutes, 
stirring occasionally to prevent burning. 



STUFFED ONIONS 

6 large white onions Y% teaspoon pepper 

% cup chopped meat 2 tablespoons melted Crisco 

Yl teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons tomato catsup 

J4 cup fine bread crumbs 
Parboil onions 15 minutes and drain. Mix meat, salt, pepper, Crisco and 
catsup. Remove centers from onions and fill with the meat mixture. Arrange 
in a baking dish, cover and bake in a moderate oven (350 degrees F.) about 
I hour. Remove cover, sprinkle tops with crumbs, dot with small bits of 
Crisco and bake until crumbs are brown. 



PARSNIPS SAUTE 

Wash the parsnips and boil in salted water until tender, about 40 minutes. 
Scrape off the skins. Cut in slices and sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour. 
Fry in a small amount of Crisco until a delicate brown. 



STUFFED PEPPERS 

6 green peppers 2 tablespoons Crisco, melted 

1 cup chopped tomatoes Y teaspoon salt 

1 cup minced cold meat Y teaspoon pepper 

1 cup cooked rice (or bread crumbs) 1 teaspoon chopped onion 

Cut a piece from the stem end of each pepper and remove seeds and partitions. 
Put peppers in boiling water and parboil 5 minutes. Mix well together the 
tomatoes, cold meat, rice, Crisco, salt, pepper and onion and fill the peppers 
with the mixture. Put in a baking dish with a cup of hot water or stock. 
Bake in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 30 to 40 minutes. 
Almost any combination of vegetables makes a good stuffing for peppers. 



POTATOES AU GRATIN 

Put a layer of cold potatoes, cut in cubes, in a greased casserole or baking dish, 
sprinkle with grated cheese, salt and pepper. Dot with small bits of Crisco. 
Repeat the process until the desired quantity is prepared. Pour over enough 
milk to almost cover top layer and sprinkle with cheese. Bake in a hot oven 
(400 degrees F.) 20 to 25 minutes. 



108 The ^rt of Rooking and Jerving 



BAKED POTATOES 

Select medium-sized potatoes. Wash with a vegetable brush to remove all 
particles of dirt. Soak in cold water 1 hour. Bake in a hot oven (400 degrees 
F.) 40 to 50 minutes or until soft. Rub skins with Crisco to soften them. 
Serve at once as they become soggy if allowed to stand. 

BOILED PARSLEY POTATOES 

Wash potatoes and let stand 1 hour in cold water. Pare and cook in boiling 
salted water until soft. Drain and keep hot until ready to serve. Do not 
cover them. Sprinkle with chopped parsley. 

DUCHESS POTATOES 

Select potatoes of uniform size, wash, pare and let stand in cold water 1 hour. 
Cook in boiling salted water until tender. Drain off all the water and force 
through a potato ricer. To 3 cups hot riced potatoes add 2 tablespoons Crisco, 
1 teaspoon salt, few grains paprika and the beaten yolks of 3 eggs. Force 
through a pastry bag into different shapes such as pyramids, roses, circles. 
Brush over with a beaten egg yolk diluted with 1 tablespoon water. Bake in a 
moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 15 minutes or until a delicate brown. This is 
an excellent garnish for planked steak or fish. 

FRANCONIA POTATOES 

Wash potatoes and let stand in cold water 1 hour. Pare and parboil 10 min- 
utes. Drain and put in pan with roast % of an hour before roast is done. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Baste them when meat is basted and bake 
until soft and well browned. 

GERMAN FRIED POTATOES 

Wash and pare potatoes and slice very thin. Soak them in cold water 1 hour. 
Drain and dry thoroughly. Put a small amount of Crisco in a frying pan. 
Add the potatoes, sprinkle with salt and cover with a tight fitting lid. Fry 
slowly until tender and brown, turning occasionally to prevent burning. 
A very easy and quick way to cook raw potatoes. 

HASHED BROWNED POTATOES 

Melt 2 tablespoons Crisco in a frying pan. Add 2 cups finely chopped cold 
potatoes, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 3^ teaspoon salt and few grains pepper. 
Mix thoroughly, then allow the potatoes to brown on the under side. Fold over 
like an omelet. Serve immediately. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES 

Slice 1 small onion thin and fry in 1 tablespoon Crisco until a delicate brown. 
Add 2 cups cold boiled potatoes, cut in J4 mcn slices. Sprinkle with J^ tea- 
spoon salt and few grains cayenne. Let potatoes brown on the under side, 
fold over and turn out on hot platter. Sprinkle with 1 teaspoon chopped 
parsley. 



Vegetables 109 



MASHED POTATOES 

Select medium-sized potatoes. Wash, pare and let stand in cold water 1 hour. 
Cook in boiling salted water until tender. Drain off all the water and mash 
with a potato masher or force through a ricer. To 6 potatoes add 2 tablespoons 
Crisco, 1 teaspoon salt, few grains pepper and 4 tablespoons hot milk. Beat 
with a fork until creamy. Pile lightly in a hot serving dish and sprinkle with 
finely chopped parsley. Serve immediately. 

POTATO CAKES 

Shape cold mashed potatoes in small flat circular cakes. Sprinkle with flour. 
Fry on one side until a delicate brown in a small amount of Crisco, turn and 
fry on the other side. 

A good way to use left over potatoes. 



SCALLOPED POTATOES 

Wash, pare and cut potatoes in thin slices. Soak in cold water Y2 hour. Put 
a layer of potatoes in a greased baking dish, sprinkle with salt, pepper and 
flour and dot with small bits of Crisco. Repeat the process until all the pota- 
toes are used. Add enough hot milk to almost cover top layer. Bake in a 
moderate oven (325 degrees F.) 1 to V/2 hours. 



POTATO SOUFFLE 

3 cups hot mashed potatoes 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 
2 tablespoons Crisco 1 teaspoon onion juice 

1 teaspoon salt 3 egg yolks 
Few grains cayenne 3 egg whites 

Mix potatoes, Crisco, salt, cayenne, parsley and onion juice together. Add 
beaten egg yolks and mix well. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Put in 
greased baking dish, set in a pan of water and bake in a moderate oven (350 
degrees F.) 50 to 60 minutes. Serve immediately. 

STUFFED BAKED POTATOES 

6 medium-sized potatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons Crisco Y% teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons hot milk y% teaspoon paprika 

Wash potatoes with a vegetable brush and soak in cold water 1 hour. Bake 
in hot oven (400 degrees F.) 40 to 50 minutes. Cut a cross in the side of each 
potato skin and turn back corners. Scoop out the potatoes with a spoon, being 
careful not to break the skins. Mash and add Crisco, milk, salt, pepper and 
paprika. Beat until light and creamy. Fill the potato skins with the mashed 
potato. Dot each one with a small bit of Crisco and return to the oven to 
brown. If desired, potatoes may be sprinkled with grated cheese before 
putting in oven. 



110 The c/rt of Rooking and Serving 



GLACE SWEET POTATOES 

Select medium-sized potatoes. Scrub with a vegetable brush to remove all 
particles of dirt. Cook in boiling water until tender. Drain off water and 
remove the skins. Cut in halves, lengthwise, and put them in a greased 
shallow pan. Make a syrup by boiling % cup sugar, }/$ cup water and 1J^ 
tablespoons Crisco 5 minutes. Pour this over the sweet potatoes. Bake in a 
hot oven (400 degrees F.) 20 minutes or until a delicate brown, basting occa- 
sionally with the syrup. 



SWEET POTATOES, SOUTHERN STYLE 

Select medium-sized potatoes. Scrub with a vegetable brush to remove all 
particles of dirt. Cook in boiling salted water until tender. Drain off water 
and cool. Remove skins and cut in 34 mcn slices. Put a layer of potatoes in 
a greased baking dish. Sprinkle with brown sugar and salt and dot with 
small bits of Crisco. Add 34 cup hot water. Cover and bake in a hot oven 
(400 degrees F.) 20 minutes. 



SPINACH AND EGG 

2 pounds spinach }/g teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons Crisco 1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon chopped onion 2 chopped hard cooked eggs 

34 teaspoon mustard 3^ cup spinach water 

6 slices bacon 

Pick over spinach and wash thoroughly. Cook in saucepan using only the 
water which clings to the leaves. Add 3^ teaspoon salt. When tender, drain 
and chop. Melt Crisco, add onion, mustard, pepper and salt. Cook until onion is 
slightly browned. Add spinach, eggs and spinach water. Heat thoroughly. 
Garnish with crisp bacon. 



BAKED SQUASH 

Small Hubbard squash 1 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons Crisco }/% teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons chopped onion Y% teaspoon paprika 

2 tablespoons chopped green pepper 34 CU P fi ne bread crumbs 

Cut squash in pieces, pare and cook in boiling salted water to cover about 30 
minutes or until tender. Drain well and mash. Melt Crisco, add onion and 
pepper and cook slowly about 5 minutes. Add onion, green pepper, salt, 
pepper and paprika to the squash. Mix well and turn into a greased baking 
dish. Sprinkle with crumbs, salt and pepper and bake in a hot oven (400 
degrees F.) 20 to 30 minutes. 



Vegetables 111 



SQUASH SAUTE 

Pare summer squash and cut in uniform pieces. Sprinkle with salt, pepper 
and flour. Dip in slightly beaten egg, diluted with 2 tablespoons water, then 
in fine dry bread crumbs. Fry in small quantity of Crisco 6 to 8 minutes. 
Brown on both sides. 

BAKED STUFFED TOMATOES 

2 cups soft bread crumbs 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons Crisco 
J/8 teaspoon pepper 6 tomatoes 

Mix bread crumbs with salt, pepper, 1 tablespoon sugar and 2 tablespoons 
melted Crisco. Cut thin slice from stem end of tomatoes and remove a little 
of the center. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and sugar. Fill with the stuffing. 
Dot with small bits of Crisco and bake in a moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 
1 hour. 

BAKED TOMATO EN CASSEROLE 

2 Spanish onions 1 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons Crisco }/$ teaspoon paprika 

2 cups cooked or canned tomatoes }/$ teaspoon pepper 

Cut onions in slices and fry in Crisco until a delicate brown. Add tomatoes, 
salt, paprika and pepper. Mix well. Put in a baking dish and cook in a quick 
oven (410 degrees F.) 1 hour, stirring occasionally. Serve on slices of toast. 

FRIED TOMATOES, CREAM GRAVY 

3 tablespoons Crisco 13^ teaspoons salt 

4 tablespoons flour J/g teaspoon pepper 
2 tablespoons sugar 4 large tomatoes 

2 cups milk 
Melt Crisco in frying pan. Mix flour, sugar, salt and pepper. Cut tomatoes 
in Y2 inch slices. Dip in flour mixture and fry in Crisco until brown. Remove 
to a hot platter. Put the milk in the pan and bring to boiling point, stirring 
constantly until it thickens. Add a little salt, if necessary. Pour over the 
tomatoes and serve hot. 

FLUFFY YELLOW TURNIP 

2 tablespoons Crisco 1 tablespoon sugar 
1 tablespoon chopped onion Y% teaspoon pepper 

3 cups yellow turnips, mashed Few grains cayenne 
1 teaspoon salt 2 egg yolks 

2 egg whites 
Melt Crisco, add onion and fry until a delicate brown. Add turnips, salt, 
sugar, pepper, cayenne and mix well. Add beaten egg yolks. Fold in the 
stiffly beaten egg whites. Put in a greased baking dish and bake in a hot oven 
(400 degrees F.) 20 to 25 minutes. 

Left over turnips may be used in this recipe with less seasoning. 



CHAPTER XII 



Meat, Fish and Vegetable Sauces 

TO CHOOSE the right sauce to serve with the right meat, 
fish or vegetable is no mean accomplishment and the 
housewife who is noted for her good table will be found 
to be something of an authority on sauces. She knows that 
for certain boiled fish and for mutton, caper sauce is a decided 
success; for fried fish, tartar sauce is the proper thing; for 
asparagus, Hollandaise; for beefsteak and fillets of beef, mush- 
room sauce, and so on through the various dishes which can be 
made culinary masterpieces with skillful handling. 

There are two secrets in the making of good sauces! One is 
the way in which the fat and thickening are blended with the 
liquid, and the second is the manner in which the flavorings 
are added to the sauce. If the vegetables, such as onion, 
parsley and chive, used for flavoring sauces are first browned in 
Crisco, a decided flavor is brought out. If, on the other 
hand, a very subtle flavor is wanted the seasoning vegetables 
should be added to the sauce when it is completely made. 
Bland foods like asparagus need the more rich, highly seasoned 
sauces, while foods of pronounced flavor, like mutton, are best 
with a sauce the flavor of which is sharp and obvious. 

The other secret, that of carefully combining the liquid with 
the fat and thickening, is what gives the sauce its smooth texture 
and well-cooked flavor. The starchy taste of uncooked flour 
in a sauce is inexcusable. 

Sauces made with the new Crisco have a delicacy of flavor and 
texture which only Crisco can give them. Hollandaise made with 
Crisco will be a boon to the housewife who has hitherto felt she 
could not make it because so much butter was required. 

The Crisco chart for W hite Sauce on next page will be found 
of great help in varying your menus without too much work 
and worry. 

[1121 



<£ A U C E S 



113 



SUCCESS SECRETS 

1. Serve hot sauces very hot and cold sauces very cold. 

2. Use the Crisco chart for white sauce. It is made to 
simplify your cooking, as white sauce is the foundation 
for any number of delicious dishes. 

3. Blend Crisco, flour and seasonings thoroughly before add- 
ing liquid. 

4. Never serve a lumpy sauce. If it isn't perfectly smooth, 
strain it before serving. 

5. Choose the right sauce to serve with the right food — 
richer sauces for the plainer dishes and simple sauces for 
the rather rich foods. 

6. A perfect sauce is an aid to digestion and a good source of 
nourishment. 

7. To draw out the flavor of vegetables used for flavoring 
sauces (onions, parsley, carrots, etc.) saute them first in 
a small amount of Crisco. 



CHART FOR WHITE SAUCE 



Ingredients 


Thin 


Medium 


Thick 


Very Thick 


Crisco 


1 tablespoon 


1 tablespoon 


1 tablespoon 


2 tablespoons 


Flour 


1 tablespoon 


2 tablespoons 


3 tablespoons 


4 tablespoons 


Salt 


% teaspoon 


% teaspoon 


% teaspoon 


% teaspoon 


Pepper 


Ye teaspoon 


Yt teaspoon 


Y$ teaspoon 


Ye teaspoon 


Milk 


1 cup 


1 cup 


1 cup 


1 cup 



Melt Crisco, add flour, salt and pepper and mix well. Add milk slowly and 
bring to the boiling point, stirring constantly to avoid lumping. Place over 
hot water until ready to use. 



114 The ^rt of Rooking and S EKYlNG 



USES FOR WHITE SAUCE 

Thin To cream starchy vegetables such as potatoes. To make 

cream soups (page 65). 

Medium To cream non-starchy vegetables such as carrots, onions, 

peas, cauliflower, etc. To make cream soups (page 65). 
To cream chicken, salmon, oysters, etc. 

Thick To prepare scalloped dishes. 

Very Thick: To make croquettes and souffles. 

ALMOND AND RAISIN SAUCE 

2 tablespoons Crisco 1 cup raisins 

4 tablespoons flour M CU P almonds, cut in strips 

3 cups meat stock 1 tablespoon sugar 

J<4 cup vinegar 

Melt Crisco, add flour and mix well. Add stock and stir until it thickens. 
Stir in raisins, almonds, sugar and vinegar. Season with salt and pepper if 
necessary. 

Adds a new piquancy to boiled tongue. 

BEARNAISE SAUCE 

34 cup Crisco Few grains cayenne 

4 egg yolks 1 tablespoon tarragon vinegar 
3>9 teaspoon salt Y2 teaspoon onion juice 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Mix Crisco and beaten egg yolks together. Add salt and cayenne and cook over 
hot (not boiling) water until thick, stirring constantly. Add vinegar and onion 
juice and cook 20 minutes, still stirring. Remove from fire and add parsley. 
Serve immediately. 

Particularly good with halibut or other fish steak. 

CAPER SAUCE 

1 tablespoon Crisco }/$ teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons flour 1 cup mutton stock or fish stock 
J 2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons capers 

Melt Crisco, add flour, salt and pepper and mix well. Add stock and bring 
to the boiling point, stirring constantly. Add capers. Serve hot with boiled 
lamb, mutton, or any white fish. 

CHEESE SAUCE 

Follow recipe for medium White Sauce. Add Y2 cup grated cheese and stir 
until melted. Serve hot. 

A rich, hearty sauce for bland vegetables or fish. 



^AUCES 115 



CUCUMBER SAUCE 

Grate a medium-sized cucumber. Drain. Season the cucumber pulp with 
salt, pepper and 2 teaspoons vinegar. 

This sauce is very delicious and will improve any kind of fish. 

EGG SAUCE 

Follow recipe for medium White Sauce. Add 1 chopped hard cooked egg and 
1 teaspoon chopped parsley. Serve hot. 
An easily made sauce that is good with any fish. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

}4 cup Crisco H CU P hot water 

J^ teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

2 egg yolks Few grains cayenne 

Cream Crisco and salt together. Add beaten egg yolks and mix well. Add 
water gradually and cook over hot water, kept below boiling point, stirring 
constantly until the sauce thickens. Add lemon juice and cayenne and cook 
one minute. Remove from the fire and serve at once. If mixture curdles, add 
a tablespoon of cream and beat thoroughly. This sauce may also be used cold. 
This is very delicious and much less expensive than when made with butter. 
Serve with fish or vegetables. 

MOCK HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

2 egg yolks 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

1 cup thick white sauce Few grains cayenne 

Add beaten egg yolks to the hot white sauce and mix well. Bring slowly to the 
boiling point, stirring constantly. Remove from fire, add lemon juice and 
cayenne. 

Serve hot wherever Hollandaise would be good. It is much easier to make. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE 

Wash, peel and remove stems of % pound of mushrooms. Cut mushroom caps 
in thin slices and fry in 13^2 tablespoons Crisco 5 minutes. Add 2 tablespoons 
flour and mix well. Put the stems and peelings in a saucepan, cover with 
water and simmer for 15 minutes. Strain. Add 3^2 CU P mushroom stock and 
3^ cup milk to the mushrooms and bring to the boiling point, stirring con- 
stantly. Season with salt and pepper. 

You'll like this especially well served with beef. 

PARSLEY SAUCE 

Follow recipe for thin White Sauce and add 3 tablespoons chopped parsley. 
This gives a touch of color and a delicate flavor to boiled fish. 



116 The c/rt of Rooking and ^erying 



SPANISH SAUCE 

2 tablespoons Crisco Few grains pepper 

13^ tablespoons chopped onion 1 cup strained tomato juice 

2 tablespooons flour 3 tablespoons cooked ham, chopped 

]/2 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons cooked celery, chopped 

Few grains cayenne 2 tablespoons cooked carrots, chopped 

Melt Crisco, add onion and fry until a delicate brown. Add flour, salt, cayenne 
and pepper and mix well. Add tomato juice and bring slowly to the boiling 
point, stirring constantly. Add ham, celery, and carrots. Serve hot. 
Use this with a simple meat dish when you want a different flavor. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

2 cups cooked or canned tomatoes Few grains cayenne 

1 teaspoon sugar 3 peppercorns 

2 whole cloves 2 tablespoons Crisco 
1 teaspoon salt 1J^ tablespoons flour 

Cook tomatoes, sugar, cloves, salt, cayenne and peppercorns together slowly 
for 20 minutes. Strain. Melt Crisco, add flour and mix well. Add the 
tomato juice slowly and bring to the boiling point, stirring constantly. 
A tasty way to use tomatoes with meat. 



CHAPTER XIII 



Quick Breads 

QUICK BREADS, or hot breads as they are sometimes 
| called, are breads which may be prepared in a very 
short time and are intended to be served at once while 
» they are fresh and hot. Keeping them for any length 
of time spoils their flavor and lightness. 

Because they can be prepared so quickly and because there 
are endless delicious recipes and variations for them which 
can be easily followed, quick breads have become a very popu- 
lar part of the daily menu. In the South many families serve 
them at every meal and do not consider a menu complete 
without hot bread in one form or another. Spoon bread and 
popovers are among their favorites, while in the New England 
states brown bread and doughnuts hold sway. 

Although hot breads are quickly and easily made there are 
certain principles which must be learned for the very best 
results. These are: use good materials, measure accurately, 
mix carefully and bake properly. 

To have a good product we must use good material. In using 
the recipes in this chapter you will discover that the new super- 
creamed Crisco gives a tender, well-browned crust, imparts a de- 
licious nutty flavor, and makes a particularly rich dough. Use it, 
too, for greasing the pans so that your muflins will not stick. 

There are two general methods of combining the ingredients 
for quick breads. They differ in the way in which the shorten- 
ing is added. In one case, unmelted Crisco is worked into the 
dry ingredients and the liquid then added gradually. This 
method is used for soft doughs of the baking powder biscuit 
type. The other method is used for thin mixtures, or batters, 
such as muflins, waffles, griddle cakes and popovers. For these 
Crisco is melted and added last, after the dry ingredients and 
liquid have been mixed together until free from lumps. 

[117] 




Ghicken Tie (Page 98) 



'Baking 'Powder Biscuits (Page 12.2) 




£~iveet SiCilk Cjriddle (zakes (Recipe on page 127) 




The old method of guessing at the heat of your oven is too uncertain. 

If you have no oven regulator an oven thermometer placed on the 

baking shelf will tell you just when to put in your biscuits 



The handling of hot bread mixtures has a great deal to do 
with the success or failure of the finished product. Soft doughs 
should be handled as little as possible — only enough to mix the 
ingredients thoroughly. Muffin mixtures should be beaten 
only enough to make them smooth. Too much beating makes 
the muffins coarse grained and full of holes. Popovers, on the 
other hand, which depend upon the air beaten into them to 
make them "pop," should be very thoroughly beaten after all 
the ingredients are combined. 

The next and very important point is the baking — which 
may "make or break" your reputation as a cook. If possible 
get an oven regulator; you have only to set it and then forget 
your oven until the time is up. Or next best, buy an oven 
thermometer for two dollars and look at it occasionally to see 
that it stays at the proper temperature. The old method of 
guessing at the heat of your oven is too uncertain and you will 
find that a heat regulator of some kind will soon pay for itself 
in saving food material from burning and yourself from worry. 

[1191 




Shaping a Cojfee Ring — Place Cofee Ring on a large greased pan 
and cut gashes two inches apart around outside edge with scissors, 
spread each section as shown above 



SUCCESS SECRETS 



1. Use level measurements. 

2. Sift flour before measuring. 

3. Collect all ingredients before starting to mix. 

4. Grease pans with Crisco before beginning to mix. 

5. Regulate oven for temperature given in recipe. 

6. Bake quick breads as soon as mixed, with the exception 
of a few loaf breads (see recipes). 

7. Keep baking powder tightly covered in a cool, dry place. 

8. Break eggs just before using and beat according to direc- 
tions. 

9. Handle baking powder doughs as little as possible. 

10. Serve quick breads as soon as possible after they are baked, 
with the exception of loaf breads which should cool before 
slicing. 

[120] 



X 

Z 

M 



C 

h 

u 









CO 


09 










CO 










CO 






i§ 












L c 










z 


to 




3 




Q 






JS o 










CO 


D, 




-Q C 


ps 










- -2 








D. 


~ 




a a. 






Da 






ps a 








3 


< 


^ 




4-* CO 


<- CO 




09 




- 


■M CO 








u 


p4 


r-i 




r^ 


-* 










c-> 
















CO 


09 










CO 
















1 r- 












if 










CO 


CO 




^ o 


i 2 




~ 














H 


D. 




-O O 


rs 


PJ 









- ^Q O 






c 


D 


~ 




rt Cx, 


CD — 


0, 


cx, 






PS Cm 










Z 


o 




4-» CO 


4^ CO 




K 






•*-- CO . 






u 






r^ 




<N 


«* 










r^ 






X 








CO 


-O 










CO 










CO 






1 r- 












i§ 










[1] 


CO 




^ 5 


i o 



















5 


a 




-Q O 


PS o 


r: 







& 




Cm 






04 


a 




nl D. 


CL> — 




c. 






PS Cm 




3 






'-> 




4-» CO 


U v. 




s. 




t 


■4-- CO 




U 






pg 


e^ 




^ 


<* 










ro 




^^ 












CO 


en 










CO 










a 






Jj§ 


§ 










1 C 










o 


ex, 




-Q O 


ps 


pj 








- -Q O 


c 










~ 




rt D. 


O C 




CX, 






PS O. 


3 








5 


'-' 




■»-" CO 


4- CO 




'y: 






4-i c/: 


U 










•^ 




co 


LO 










m 


'""' 








j 






CO 


J-. 










CO 










< 






Jig 


i o 




1 

CO 






Jig 










s 


ex 


ex. 


_Q O 


PS o 


pj 






- ^2 O 










z 


~ 


3 


ra o. 


CD CX 


l 






PS Cm 










c* 


u 


u 


4-> c/: 


i~> co 






L 


4-> CO 










c 




^H 


C^ 


-& 










CO 










u 


































-O 


CO 










CO 










z 






i§ 


I 5 











k% 










< 


a c 


_Q O 


PS o 


pj 









- Jl O 










ei 


~ ZJ 




PS cx, 


CD CX, 


l 








PS Cm 










n 


u c 




4-> CO 


4m cc 




s. 




E 


4-> CO 












MM f— 1 




C* 


IT) 








con 
















CO 


CO 










CO 










J < 






1 1— 

^ 5 


i o 







• 




i§ 










O H 


Cx, cx 




_Q O 


PS O 


pj 


c 




B* 










as i 


~ ~ 




PS o. 


CD CX, 










PS Cm 










c> o 




*-> CO 


4— CO 




Cfl 






4J CO 










T-H »— 




rs 


uo 










CO 
















CO 


CO 










CO 
















1 r- 












Jig 










z 


ca 




^ 5 


i o 




~ 














< 


Di 




-G c 


k o 


pj 









- J2 O 










~ 




PS c 


CD CX, 










PS D. 










u 




*- ca 


4- :o 




s- 






4-- (^ 












P-) 




C^J 


<-*• 










cn 










CO 




















no 








H 




















CD 








Z 


4-' 


"73 
















-J^ 








H 


ps 


cd 




P< 












O 










' i ^ 






X 










•a 


o 








S 


CD ^ r- 


c 




'- C 










CD 


cv 


CO 






a. 


z 


LOUR 

Whit 
Who 

w 


1 

U 


< 


a o 

"^ Cm 

< — 


4 




a 


u 

- 


CD CD 


M 

O 


w 

5 

Cm 

M 


■ 
r- 

b 


2 

< 




fc 




c/a 


X 


x 




(xl 


s 


O 


c2 


CC 


y 


C- 



— ^1 

I 2 

— o 

pi es 

. CO 

U 






8* 



"^ CO 

< B 
to 



PS 



r~ 






[121 



122 The <^rt of Rooking and Jerving 



BLUEBERRY TEA MUFFINS 

}4 cup Crisco 5 teaspoons baking powder 

Yz cup sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs Yi cup milk 

2 cups flour Y2 cup blueberries 

Cream Crisco and sugar together. Add beaten eggs and mix well. Mix and 
sift 1J/2 cups flour, baking powder and salt and add alternately with the milk 
to the first mixture. Dredge blueberries with Y2 cup flour and stir in lightly. 
Bake in greased muffin pans in hot oven (400 degrees F.) 25 to 30 minutes. 
This recipe makes 12 muffins. 

SALLY LUNN 

follow recipe for Blueberry Tea Muffins, omitting the berries and using only 4 
teaspoons baking powder. Bake in a greased cake pan in a hot oven (400 degrees 
F.) 20 to 25 minutes. 

APPLE GEMS 

134 cups scalded milk 1 egg 

4 tablespoons Crisco 1 cup flour 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Yi cup yellow cornmeal 1 teaspoon salt 

YY2 cups apples, chopped fine 
To the scalded milk add Crisco, sugar and cornmeal. Mix well. Add beaten 
egg, flour, baking powder and salt. Add apples to the batter and beat thor- 
oughly. Drop into greased gem or muffin pans and bake in a moderate oven 
(350 degrees F.) 25 to 30 minutes. 
This recipe makes 12 to 14 gems. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS 

2 cups flour Y2 teaspoon salt 

4 teaspoons baking powder 4 tablespoons Crisco 

% cup milk (variable) 
Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt. Cut in Crisco with a knife or rub 
in with the finger tips. Add milk gradually and mix to a soft dough. Roll out 
on a slightly floured board to 3^ inch thickness. Cut with a biscuit cutter. 
Bake in a quick oven (450 degrees F.) 10 to 15 minutes. 
This recipe makes 12 biscuits. 

CHEESE BISCUITS 

Follow directions for Baking Powder Biscuits and add J^ cup grated cheese 
before adding the milk. 

EMERGENCY BISCUITS 

Follow the recipe for Baking Powder Biscuits using one cup milk. Drop by 
tablespoons into a greased pan. 



^uick Breads 123 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

Follow recipe for Baking Powder Biscuits. Roll out to 34 inch thickness. Cut 
with a large cooky cutter. Spread with melted Crisco. Fold over double and 
press edges together lightly. 



OATMEAL BISCUITS 

1J^ cups flour 13^2 teaspoons salt 

1 tablespoon sugar 13^ cups uncooked rolled oats 

7 teaspoons baking powder 4 tablespoons Crisco 

% cup milk 

Mix and sift flour, sugar, baking powder and salt. Mix in the rolled oats. 
Cut in Crisco with a knife or rub in with the finger tips. Add milk gradually 
and mix to a soft dough. Turn out on floured board and roll, or pat, to % 
inch thickness. Cut with biscuit cutter. Brush tops with milk and bake in 
quick oven (450 degrees F.) 15 to 20 minutes. 
This recipe makes 14 to 16 biscuits. 



SOUR MILK BISCUITS 

2 cups flour 2 tablespoons Crisco 

3 teaspoons baking powder 3^ teaspoon soda 
1 teaspoon salt % cup sour milk 

Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt. Cut in Crisco with a knife or rub 
in with the finger tips. Mix soda with the sour milk. Add slowly to the flour 
mixture and mix to a soft dough. Roll out on a slightly floured board to 3^ 
inch thickness and cut with a biscuit cutter. Bake in a quick oven (450 degrees 
F.) 10 to 15 minutes. 
This recipe makes 12 biscuits. 



SWEET POTATO BISCUITS 

2 cups flour 13^ teaspoons salt 

6 teaspoons baking powder 3 tablespoons Crisco 

2 tablespoons sugar 13^2 cups sweet potatoes, mashed 

% cup milk 

Mix and sift flour, baking powder, sugar and salt. Cut in Crisco with a knife 
or rub in with the finger tips. Work the sweet potatoes into the flour mixture. 
Add milk and mix to a soft dough. Roll out on a slightly floured board to 
l /2 inch thickness. Cut with a biscuit cutter. Bake in a quick oven (425 
degrees F.) 15 to 20 minutes. This dough will keep for several days if wrapped 
in wax paper and placed in the ice box. 
This recipe makes 14 to 16 biscuits. 



124 The zAkt of Rooking and Serving 



SCOTCH SCONES 

2 cups flour 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons Crisco 

5 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs 

H cup milk 
Mix and sift flour, salt, baking powder and 1 tablespoon sugar. Cut in Crisco 
with a knife or rub in with the finger tips. Add the beaten eggs (reserving 1 
egg white for the tops). Add milk and mix to a soft dough. Roll out on a 
slightly floured board to 3^ inch thickness and cut in diamond shaped pieces. 
Brush with white of egg and sprinkle with the remaining tablespoon of sugar. 
Bake in a quick oven (425 degrees F.) 10 to 15 minutes. 
This recipe makes 10 to 12 scones. 



SHORTCAKES 

2 cups flour 2 tablespoons sugar 

5 teaspoons baking powder 34 cup Crisco 

1 teaspoon salt % cup milk 

Mix and sift flour, baking powder, salt and sugar. Cut in Crisco with a knife 
or rub in with the finger tips. Add milk gradually and mix to a soft dough. 
Roll out on a slightly floured board to 3^ inch thickness. Cut with a large 
cooky cutter. Bake in a quick oven (425 degrees F.) 15 minutes. Break apart 
and put sliced and sweetened fruit or crushed berries between and on top of 
cakes. Serve with whipped cream. 
This recipe makes 8 shortcakes. 



POPOVERS 

1 cup flour 1 cup milk 

34 teaspoon salt 2 eggs 

1 tablespoon melted Crisco 
Mix and sift flour and salt. Add milk gradually. Add beaten egg and Crisco. 
Beat batter five minutes with a Dover egg beater. Pour batter into greased 
hot iron popover pans or hot greased earthen cups. Bake in a hot oven 
(400 degrees F.) 30 minutes. Reduce heat to a moderate oven (325 degrees F.) 
and bake 15 minutes. Do not open oven door for the first 15 minutes of baking. 
This recipe makes 8 to 10 popovers. 



CORNBREAD 

13^2 cups milk 2 eggs 

1 cup cornmeal 13^ teaspoons baking powder 

13^ tablespoons Crisco Y 2 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons sugar 
Scald the milk and pour over the cornmeal and Crisco. Cool. Add beaten 
eggs, baking powder, salt and sugar and mix well. Pour into a greased shallow 
pan and bake in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 25 to 30 minutes. 



j2>uick Breads 125 



NUT BREAD 

3 cups flour 1 egg 

3 teaspoons baking powder 13^ cups milk 

1 cup sugar 1 cup nuts, cut in pieces 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 cup raisins 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons melted Crisco 

Mix and sift flour, baking powder, sugar, cinnamon and salt. Beat egg and 
add milk. Stir liquid into flour mixture and mix well. Add nuts, raisins and 
Crisco. Pour into bread pan, let stand 3^ hour and bake in moderate oven 
(325 degrees F.) 50 to 60 minutes. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD 

1 cup white flour 3^ CU P sugar 

1 cup whole wheat flour 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup cornmeal H cup molasses 

1J/2 teaspoons salt 13^2 CU P S buttermilk 

2 tablespoons melted Crisco 
Mix flour, whole wheat flour, cornmeal, salt and sugar together. Mix soda 
with the molasses and add with the buttermilk to the flour mixture. Add 
Crisco and mix well. Fill a greased pudding mold % full and steam 3 hours. 

RAISIN BROWN BREAD 

Follow recipe for Steamed Brown Bread. Add 3^ cup floured raisins and use 
14 cup sugar instead of 3^ cup sugar. 

SPOON BREAD 

1 cup cornmeal 1 egg 

% cup boiling water Y2 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup buttermilk 

1 tablespoon sugar 13^ tablespoons melted Crisco 

Put the meal into a bowl and pour the boiling water over it. Cover. Let 
stand until cool. Add salt, sugar, and beaten egg. Dissolve soda in buttermilk 
and add to the batter. Mix well. Add melted Crisco. Pour into a deep 
greased baking dish and bake in a hot oven (375 degrees F.) 30 to 35 minutes. 

WHOLE WHEAT NUT BREAD 

2 cups whole wheat flour 5 tablespoons brown sugar 
1 cup flour ]/2 cup molasses 

1 teaspoon soda % cup milk 

3 teaspoons baking powder J^ cup water 

2 teaspoons salt 1 cup walnuts, cut in small pieces 

2 tablespoons melted Crisco 
Mix whole wheat flour, flour, soda, baking powder, salt and sugar together. 
Add molasses, milk and water and mix well. Add nuts and Crisco and beat 



126 The *Art of Rooking and Serving 



thoroughly. Pour into a greased loaf pan and let stand 20 minutes. Bake in 
a slow oven (500 degrees F.) 1 to 1J^ hours. 



COFFEE CAKE 

3 cups flour } 2 cup Crisco 

2 cups brown sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon salt 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon cinnamon ?4 cup milk 

Mix and sift flour, salt, sugar and cinnamon. Cut in Crisco with a knife or 
rub in with the finger tips. Reserve 1 cup of this mixture to sprinkle on top of 
cake. To the remainder add the baking powder and mix well. Add the 
beaten eggs and milk and beat thoroughly. Pour into two greased layer cake 
pans and sprinkle top with crumbs reserved for this purpose. Bake in a hot 
oven (400 degrees F.) 20 to 25 minutes. 



COFFEE RING 

3 cups flour }i cup Crisco 

*3 cup sugar _ 1 egg 

5 teaspoons baking powder ?X cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt ? 4 CU p raisins 

1 2 cup nuts, chopped 

Mix and sift flour, sugar, baking powder and salt. Cut in Crisco with a knife 
or rub in with the hnger tips. Add beaten egg and enough milk to make a 
soft dough. Roll out to }± inch thickness into a rectangular-shaped piece. 
Spread lightly with softened Crisco, sprinkle with raisins and nuts and 1 table- 
spoon sugar. Roll like a jelly roll lengthwise. Bring ends together to make 
a circle and press together. Put on a large greased pan and cut gashes around 
outside edge with scissors, 2 inches apart. Bake in a moderate oven (550 degrees 
F.) 25 to 50 minutes. Spread top with Confectioners' Frosting (page 169). 



DAINTY ROLLS 

2 cups flour 1 egg 

4 teaspoons baking powder J o cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt Crisco 

2 tablespoons sugar Seedless raisins 
} 2 cup Crisco Chopped nuts 

Sugar 

Mix and sift flour, baking powder, salt and sugar. Cut in Crisco with a knife 
or rub in with the finger tips. Add beaten egg and enough milk to make a 
soft dough. Roll out on slightly floured board to J£ inch thickness and cut in 
3 inch squares. Spread each lightly with softened Crisco. Sprinkle with 
raisins, nuts and a little sugar. Roll like a jelly roll and press ends together. 
Brush tops with yolk of egg diluted with 1 teaspoon water. Bake in a hot oven 
(400 degrees F.) 20 minutes. 



j^uick Breads 127 



RAISIN ROLLS 

2 cups flour % cup milk 

5 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon melted Crisco 

1 teaspoon salt H cup raisins 

2 tablespoons sugar 34 cup chopped nuts 

3 tablespoons Crisco 3^ teaspoon cinnamon 

Mix and sift flour, baking powder, salt and 1 tablespoon of sugar. Cut in 
Crisco with a knife or rub in with the finger tips. Add milk gradually and mix 
to a soft dough. Roll out on a slightly floured board. Brush over with the 
melted Crisco. Sprinkle with raisins, nuts, 1 tablespoon sugar and the cinna- 
mon. Roll like a jelly roll and cut in % inch slices. Put in a greased baking 
pan, cut side down, and bake in a quick oven (425 degrees F.) 15 minutes. 
Serve hot. 
This recipe makes 8 rolls. 

BUTTERSCOTCH ROLLS 

Follow recipe for Raisin Rolls. Line a deep greased pan with 1 cup brown sugar 
creamed with 2 tablespoons Crisco and 1 tablespoon cold water. Lay the rolls 
on this mixture. Bake in a hot oven (375 degrees F.) 20 to 25 minutes. Turn 
biscuits out on a plate and serve hot. 

SWEET MILK GRIDDLE CAKES 

2 cups flour 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups milk 
1}^ teaspoons baking powder 1 egg 

1 tablespoon melted Crisco 
Mix and sift flour, salt, baking powder and sugar. Add milk, well-beaten egg 
and Crisco and mix well. Drop by tablespoons on a hot griddle greased well 
with Crisco and brown on both sides. Serve hot with marmalade or honey. 

SOUR MILK GRIDDLE CAKES 

2 cups flour 2 cups sour milk 
1 teaspoon salt 1 egg 

1 teaspoon soda 1 tablespoon melted Crisco 

Mix and sift flour and salt. Dissolve soda in the sour milk and add to the 
flour mixture. Add beaten egg and Crisco and mix well. Drop by tablespoons 
on a hot griddle greased well with Crisco and brown on both sides. Serve hot 
with maple syrup or jam. 

WHOLE WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 

% cup whole wheat flour 2 tablespoons sugar 

134 cups flour \]/2 cups milk 

3 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon melted Crisco 

Mix whole wheat flour, flour, baking powder, salt and sugar together. Add 
milk, beaten egg and Crisco and mix well. Drop by tablespoons on a hot 



128 The cyfRT of ^ ooking and curving 



griddle, greased well with Crisco and brown on both sides. Serve hot with 
powdered sugar or maple syrup. 

WAFFLES 

2 cups flour 1 tablespoon sugar 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1)4 cups milk 

1 teaspoon salt 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons melted Crisco 

Mix and sift flour, baking powder, salt and sugar. Add milk and beaten egg 
yolks and mix well. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Add Crisco. Heat 
waffle iron thoroughly on one side, then turn and heat other side. Grease well 
with Crisco. Put a little of the waffle mixture in the center. The mixture 
will spread when the iron is closed. Brown on one side, turn and brown on the 
other. Serve with maple syrup, honey or marmalade. 



CHEESE WAFFLES 

Follow recipe for Waffles, adding 3^2 cup grated cheese to the waffle batter. 



CHAPTER XIV 



Yeast Breads 

IN THESE busy days many of us buy our bread at the 
corner grocery because we think we have no time for 
bread baking. But if you could be sure that within three 
hours after you had first set your dough to rise you could take 
the golden brown, crusty loaves from the oven would you be 
willing to bake at home? 

According to the new "quick method" of bread making you 
can make your sponge in the morning and have hot bread 
within three hours — in time for luncheon! For about 30 or 40 
minutes of this time you will have been occupied with the 
bread making; during the remainder of the three-hour period 
you will have been free to go about your other duties. 

Of course more yeast is required by this new method than 
by the old, over-night process, but the flavor is actually better 
than that of bread which uses less yeast. 

To make bread by the recipes in this chapter will take about 
three hours, as has been said. In the short process of bread 
making the all-important thing to watch is your temperature. 
Keep the dough at 80 degrees or 82 degrees Fahrenheit during 
the time it is rising, as this is the temperature best suited to 
yeast growth. Use an ordinary dairy or candy thermometer, 
put it into the dough and cover with a clean cloth. If the room 
is cool, place the bowl in a pan of warm water. 

The ingredients essential to a good bread are flour, yeast, 
salt, sugar, liquid and shortening. The flour best suited to 
bread making is one which contains a large amount of gluten, 
for gluten produces a dough that is elastic and spongy. The 
yeast may be either compressed or dry. Among various yeasts, 
Fleischmann's Compressed Yeast stands out as one of high 
quality. Furthermore, it can be bought in practically every 
store. The liquid may be either milk, water, or half milk and 

[129] 




yugh at 80 to 82 degrees F. during the time it is 
er y put it into the dough, and cover with a clean 
rt warm enough place bowl in a pan of warm 
e hot water occasionally to regulate temperature 



half water. Bread made with whole milk is, of course, more 
nutritious and should be used whenever possible. 

A little salt is usually added to improve the flavor and 
regulate the fermentation, but too much retards the action of 
the yeast. Sugar adds flavor and helps to give a delicate brown 
crust. It also h ightly the action of the yeast, so use 

some and help the yeast along! 

Shortening used in bread must be the very best, because on 
it depends th ty of crumb, the tenderness or toughness of 

the crust, and the keeping qualities and flavor of the loaf. 

Crisco makes the crust tender, the crumb flaky and improves 
the keeping qualities of bread. 

[130] 



Teast Breads 131 



A "nutty" flavor is given to the crust if, just before it comes 
from the oven, it is rubbed over with melted Crisco. 



SUCCESS SECRETS 

1. Use level measurements. 

2. Sift flour before measuring. 

3. Be sure to scald milk used in bread making. 

4. Dissolve yeast in lukewarm water — hot water will kill the 
yeast and prevent bread from rising. 

5. To prevent a hard surface forming on the dough while 
rising, brush lightly with melted Crisco and cover with 
a clean cloth. 

6. Knead dough thoroughly; the first time to blend the ingre- 
dients and the second time to distribute the gas bubbles 
produced by the yeast. 

7. Use little or no flour on the board for second kneading. 
Extra flour added at this time takes from the lightness of 
the finished loaf. 

8. Keep bread dough at even temperature during mixing 
and rising — 80 degrees to 82 degrees Fahrenheit is the 
ideal temperature for yeast to grow. 

9. After baking remove bread immediately from the pan, 
place on cake cooler and cover lightly with clean towel. 

10. Never wrap bread tightly or put it in bread box while 
hot — moisture will collect on the surface and it will not 
keep well. 

11. Watch baking carefully — too hot an oven makes a heavy 
loaf, too slow an oven a loaf of coarse, uneven texture. 



132 The ^rt of Rooking and Serving 



BREAD 

(Over-Night Process) 
1 cup milk 2J^ teaspoons salt 

1 cup water 1 yeast cake 

3 tablespoons Crisco J4 cup lukewarm water 

2 tablespoons sugar 6 or 7 cups flour 

Heat milk and water and add Crisco, sugar and salt. When lukewarm add the 
yeast cake dissolved in the warm water. Stir in 3 or 4 cups of flour and beat 
thoroughly. Cover and set in a warm place to riscover night. In the morning 
add enough flour to make a firm dough. Knead on a slightly floured board 
until smooth and elastic to touch. Cover and set in a warm place to rise until 
treble in bulk. Knead again. Shape in loaves and put in greased bread pans. 
Cover and let rise again in warm place until double in bulk. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven (350 degrees F.) 50 to 60 minutes. 

BREAD 

(Quick Process) 

1 cup milk 13^ teaspoons salt 

2 tablespoons Crisco 1 yeast cake 

\}/2 tablespoons sugar 2 tablespoons lukewarm water 

2 or 3 cups flour 
Heat milk and add Crisco, sugar and salt. When lukewarm add the yeast 
cake dissolved in warm water. Add 1 cup of flour and beat thoroughly. Cover 
and set in a warm place to rise until light, about 1 hour. Add enough flour to 
make a firm dough. Knead on a slightly floured board until smooth and elastic 
to touch. Cover and set in a warm place to rise until treble in bulk. Knead 
again. Shape in a loaf and put in a greased bread pan. Cover, set in a warm 
place and let rise until double in bulk. Bake in a moderate oven (350 degrees 
F.) 50 to 60 minutes. 

To be sure of perfect results read introduction to this chapter carefully, 

RAISIN BREAD 

(Quick Process) 
1 cup milk 1 yeast cake 

3 tablespoons Crisco 2 tablespoons lukewarm water 

4 tablespoons sugar 4 to 5 cups flour 
1 teaspoon salt 1 cup raisins 

Heat milk and add sugar, Crisco and salt. When lukewarm add the yeast 
cake dissolved in warm water. Add 2 cups of flour and beat until smooth. 
Cover and set in a warm place to rise for about 1 hour. Add the raisins and 
enough flour to make a firm dough. Knead until smooth and elastic to touch. 
Cover and set in a warm place to rise until double in bulk. Knead until free 
from air bubbles. Put in a greased loaf pan, cover and "set in a warm place 
to rise until double in bulk. Bake in a moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 50 to 
60 minutes. 

To be sure of perfect results read introduction to this chapter carefully. 



Teast Breads 133 



WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 

(Quick Process) 

1 cup milk 1 yeast cake 

2 tablespoons Crisco 2 tablespoons lukewarm water 
4 tablespoons sugar 2 cups flour 

1 teaspoon salt 13^ to 2 cups whole wheat flour 

Heat milk and add Crisco, sugar and salt. When lukewarm add the yeast 
cake dissolved in the warm water. Add the flour and beat until smooth. 
Cover and set in a warm place to rise for about 1 hour. Add the whole wheat 
flour and knead until it is elastic to touch and does not stick to an unfloured 
board. Cover and set in a warm place to rise until double in bulk. Knead 
again until free from air bubbles. Put in a greased loaf pan. Cover and 
set in a warm place to rise until double in bulk. Bake in a moderate oven 
(350 degrees F.) 50 to 60 minutes. 

To be sure of perfect results read the introduction to this chapter carefully. 



COFFEE CAKE 

(Quick Process) 
Yl cup milk 1 yeast cake 

3 tablespoons Crisco 2 tablespoons lukewarm water 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 to 2]/^ cups flour 

1 teaspoon salt 1 egg 

3^ cup brown sugar 

Heat milk and add Crisco, sugar and salt. When lukewarm add the yeast 
cake dissolved in warm water. Add % cup flour and beat thoroughly. Cover 
and set in a warm place to rise until light — about 1 hour. Add beaten egg 
and brown sugar and enough flour to make a firm dough. Knead on a slightly 
floured board until smooth and elastic to touch. Cover and set in a warm 
place to rise until double in bulk. Knead again. Pat dough into a greased 
pan to }/2 inch thickness. Cover and set in a warm place to rise until light. 
Brush top with melted Crisco, sprinkle with 1 teaspoon cinnamon and 2 table- 
spoons brown sugar. Bake in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 15 to 20 minutes. 
To be sure of perfect results read the introduction to this chapter carefully. 

COFFEE ROLLS 

(Quick Process) 
1 cup milk 1 yeast cake 

J4 cup Crisco 2 tablespoons lukewarm water 

J4 cup sugar 4 to 5 cups flour 

1 teaspoon salt 2 eggs 

Heat milk and add Crisco, sugar and salt. When lukewarm add the yeast 
cake, dissolved in warm water. Add \Yo cups flour and beat well. Cover 
and set in a warm place to rise. When double in bulk add the beaten eggs and 
mix well. Add enough flour to make a firm dough. Knead on a slightly 



134 The ^rt of Rooking and ^erving 



floured board until smooth and elar . :h. Cover and set in a « 

to rise until double in bulk. E :es of 

dough, shape in balls and flatten with hands, like biscuits. Fit into a greased 
loaf f^ -ntil treble in bulk. Brush tops with me. 

and sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon, mace and chopped raisins. Bake in a hot 
oven (400 degree : 2 : : ] minutes. 

To be sure of perfect results read the introduction to this chapter carefully. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

Ji iac Process) 

1 ;ups milk :-:i*r;;r.> >:='.: 

. : :^?lespoons sugar 4 tablespoons lukewarm water 

6 to 7 cups flour 

Heat milk and add C Alien lukewarm add the yeast 

cakes dissolved in warm water. Add 2 cups flour and beat thoroughly. Cover 
and set in a warm place to rise until light — about 1 J^ hours. Add enough 
flour to make a firm dough. Knead on ^ J . cm red board until smooth 

and elastic to tc u :r.a warm place to rise until double in bulk. 

i again. Roil the dough I 2nd cut with a large round 

cutter. Brush :o. Mark through the center 

with the back of a knife and fold over. Place rolls on 2 
1 inch apa: - and set in a warm place to rise until double in size. Bake 

in a hot oven (400 degrees F to 20 minutes. 

This recipe makes 2 J^ dozen rolls. 

To be sure of perfect results read the introduction to this chapter carefully. 



DINNER ROLl> 

Follow recipe for Parker House rolls. Roll dough to ^j inch thickness. Cut 
with a small round cooky cutter. Place rolls in a greased shallow pan 1 inch 
apart. Continue as for Parker House rolls. 
This recipe makes 3 dozen rolls. 



CLOVER LEAF ROLLS 

Follow recipe for Parker House rolls. Pull off small bits of the dough after 
the third rising. Shape in small balls. -Sn pans and put 3 balls 

in each pan. Continue as for Parker House rolls. 
This recipe makes 5 dozen rolls. 




TktriTi frod Cake (Recipe on page 15-) 




■J)Cother\ Tea Cakes (Recipe on page |£J 



CHAPTER XV 



Salads 

IF WE are going to serve salads to our family as often as 
we should — at least once a day according to good health 
rules — we shall have to give a little time and thought to 
keeping the salad course out of the rut. 

Salad greens must be carefully washed several hours before 
the meal and put in the ice box or some other cool place to 
become crisp. A small bag made of cheesecloth is very con- 
venient for holding the washed lettuce and if you keep it filled 
you will always have a supply of fresh, crisp greens on hand in 
case of an emergency meal. 

When you separate a head of lettuce or Romaine don't dis- 
card the outer leaves. Wash and chill them with the rest of 
the head and use them, shredded, for the foundation of another 
salad. You will find a pair of scissors very convenient for 
shredding salad greens. 

The other ingredients of the salad, whether they be meat, 
fruit or vegetables, should be just as carefully prepared and as 
thoroughly chilled as the greens. Marinate them first. Mari- 
nating means to moisten thoroughly with French dressing and 
let stand for a time — a half hour to an hour — in a cold place in 
order that the food may absorb some of the flavor of the 
dressing. 

Among the salads which you can serve for special occasions 
are the molded salads. They are very popular on any occasion, 
but for the buffet supper, Sunday night tea or bridge party 
when you want to get everything ready before the guests 
arrive, you will find them a blessing and your guests will vote 
them a great treat. 

Both the cooked and pineapple dressings are especially good 
with these more delicate salads as well as with any of the fruit 

[1361 




T(Jfh C a ^ e ( Rec ip e on P a g e 1 Sl) 




J)ilrer ('ake (Recipe on page 155) 



138 The ^"rt of Rooking and Serving 

salad combinations. New super-creamed Crisco gives just the 
right touch — a delicate flavor and a smooth, velvety texture. 



SUCCESS SECRETS 

1. Include at least one salad in your menus every day. 

2. Keep a supply of fresh, carefully washed salad greens in 
a clean cheesecloth bag in your ice box. 

3. Do not discard the outer leaves of a head of lettuce or 
Romaine. Shred them and use for the foundation of 
another salad. 

4. Chill thoroughly all ingredients used for salads, such as 
meat, fish, vegetables and fruit. 

5. Apples, bananas and pears turn dark after slicing, so 
prepare them at the last minute. Or cover them with 
French dressing or lemon juice to prevent them from 
discoloring. 

6. Don't think you have to make up a fresh supply of salad 
dressing for every meal at which a salad is served. Any 
of the dressings given in this chapter, except those to 
which whipped cream is added, will keep for several days, 
if kept in a covered jar in the ice box. 

7. Don't put the dressing on salad until immediately before 
serving. It wilts the greens. 

8. Be particular about the appearance of your salad. Remem- 
ber many of us "eat with our eyes." 

9. Vary your salad course frequently by using crisp shredded 
cabbage instead of lettuce for the foundation. 

10. Don't always use the same dressing on the same salad! 
Dress up an old salad with one of the new dressings in 
this chapter. 

11. Don't think salads have to be elaborate to be good. Any 
of the following are easy to prepare and delicious served 
with an appropriate dressing: hearts of lettuce, watercress, 
chicory, Romaine, shredded lettuce and endive, sliced pine- 



e^ALADS 



139 



apple and cream cheese balls, sliced cucumber and water- 
cress, stuffed celery and hearts of romaine, shredded 
cabbage and peanut, grapefruit and orange. 



COOKED SALAD DRESSING 



^/2 teaspoon mustard 
\]/2 teaspoons salt 
13^ teaspoons sugar 
\Yi tablespoons flour 
Y% teaspoon paprika 
Mix mustard, salt, sugar, 
beaten egg and mix well. 



Few grains cayenne 
1 egg 

1 cup milk 

4 tablespoons vinegar 
1J^ tablespoons Crisco 
flour, paprika and cayenne together. Add the 
Add milk and vinegar and cook over hot water 



until thick. Add Crisco and stir until melted. 

Whipped Cream Dressing — To the foundation recipe add 3^ cup whipped 
cream. Fold in lightly. 

Tarragon Dressing — In the foundation recipe use only 2 tablespoons vinegar 
and add 2 tablespoons tarragon vinegar. Add 2 tablespoons chopped onion 
and 2 tablespoons chopped parsley. 

Horseradish Dressing — To the foundation recipe add 3 tablespoons prepared 
horseradish. 

Celery Dressing — To the foundation recipe add }/± cup chopped celery, 2 
tablespoons chopped green pepper and 2 tablespoons chopped red pepper. 



FRENCH DRESSING 

1 cup salad cil 1 teaspoon sugar 

3 tablespoons vinegar }/g teaspoon pepper 

1 teaspoon salt Y% teaspoon paprika 

Mix oil, vinegar, salt, sugar, pepper and paprika together and beat thoroughly. 
Or, put all ingredients in a glass jar and shake well. 

Lemon French Dressing — In the foundation recipe, substitute 3 tablespoons 
lemon juice for 2 tablespoons of the vinegar. 

Chiffonade French Dressing — To the foundation recipe add x /i cup chopped 
cooked beets and one chopped hard cooked egg. 

Thousand Island French Dressing — To the foundation recipe add }/i cup 
chopped green pepper, 2 tablespoons chopped stuffed olives, 1 tablespoon 
chopped parsley and 2 tablespoons chopped onion. 

Curry French Dressing — To the foundation recipe add y$ teaspoon curry 
powder, mixed with the seasonings. 



140 The i/rt of Rooking and Serving 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

1 egg yolk % teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons vinegar }/g teaspoon pepper 
}4: teaspoon mustard 1 cup salad oil 

Beat egg yolk and add 1 tablespoon vinegar. Add mustard, salt and pepper 
and mix well. Drop oil a teaspoonful at a time into the egg mixture, beating 
constantly until 3<a cup oil is added. Then add it in larger quantities, beating 
thoroughly after each addition. As the mixture thickens, add the remaining 
vinegar a little at a time. (Half lemon juice and half vinegar may be used.) 
Keep in a cool place. 

Fruit Salad Mayonnaise — To the foundation recipe add }/$ cup whipped 
cream. Fold in lightly. 

Russian Mayonnaise — To the foundation recipe, add 34 cup Chili sauce and 
2 tablespoons chopped green pepper. 

Piquante Mayonnaise — To the foundation recipe, add J4 cup chopped sour 
pickle and 2 tablespoons chopped pickled onions. 

Tartar Mayonnaise — To the foundation recipe, add 2 tablespoons chopped 
sour pickle, 2 tablespoons chopped stuffed olives, 1 teaspoon capers and 
2 tablespoons chopped parsley. 

Red Mayonnaise — To the foundation recipe, add 34 teaspoon paprika and 
34 cup catsup. 

Cucumber Mayonnaise — To the foundation recipe add 34 cup grated well- 
drained cucumber. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD 

Cook 1 bunch of asparagus in boiling salted water 25 to 35 minutes or until 
tender. Drain and cool. Cut off the stalky ends leaving the tender tips. 
Marinate tips in French Dressing. Chill. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves with 
Thousand Island French Dressing. 

Canned asparagus may be used instead of fresh. 

CHICKEN SALAD 

To 3 cups of diced cold chicken add 234 cups chopped celery. Season with 
salt and pepper and marinate in French Dressing. Chill. Moisten well with 
Mayonnaise Dressing and mound in salad dish. Garnish with lettuce and 
sprinkle 1 tablespoon capers over the chicken. Decorate with olives or radish 
roses and slices of hard cooked egg. 

RUSSIAN EGG SALAD 

6 hard cooked eggs 2 tablespoons chopped cooked ham 

1 tablespoon chopped green pepper J4 teaspoon salt 
3 tablespoons Chili sauce 34 teaspoon pepper 

34 teaspoon paprika 
Cut eggs in halves lengthwise and remove yolks. Mash them and add green 
pepper, Chili sauce, ham, salt, pepper and paprika. Mix well. Refill whites 



^ALADS 141 



of eggs and place on a bed of chopped cabbage. Serve with Cooked Salad 
Dressing. Any other meat may be used in this recipe. 



HAM SALAD 

2 cups diced cold ham 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 teaspoon chopped onion 1 tablespoon chopped pickle 

2 hard cooked eggs, chopped 

Mix ham, onion, parsley, pickle and eggs. Marinate in French Dressing and 
chill. Garnish with lettuce and strips of pickle. Serve with Mayonnaise 
Dressing. 

POTATO SALAD 

5 medium-sized potatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

\]/2 cups celery, cut in pieces }/$ teaspoon paprika 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley 1 hard cooked egg 
J^ teaspoon chopped onion Stuffed olives 

Wash and boil potatoes in salted water. Drain, and let cool with skins on. 
Remove skins and cut in small dice. Marinate in French Dressing and chill. 
Just before serving, add celery, parsley, onion, salt and paprika, and moisten 
with Mayonnaise Dressing. Garnish with lettuce, slices of hard cooked egg 
and olives. 



MACEDOINE SALAD 

1 cup cooked peas 1 cup celery, cut in small 
1 cup cooked carrots, cut pieces 

in cubes 1 cup cooked string beans, 
1 small cauliflower, cooked cut in pieces 

Marinate peas, carrots, celery and string beans in French Dressing. Chill 
thoroughly. Separate cauliflower into small flowerets and marinate separately 
in French Dressing. Arrange cups of heart leaves of lettuce on a platter and 
pile vegetables lightly in them. Put a border of cauliflower around the edge of 
platter and garnish with strips of red and green pepper. 



SALMON SALAD 

2 cups cooked or canned salmon J^ cup celery, cut in pieces 

1 cup chopped cucumber, drained Y2 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley Y% teaspoon pepper 

Flake the salmon and remove bones. Add cucumber, parsley, celery, salt and 
pepper and mix well. Moisten with Mayonnaise Dressing. Mound in center 
of salad dish on crisp lettuce leaves. Garnish with Mayonnaise, slices of 
cucumber and hard cooked egg. Sprinkle 1 teaspoon capers over the salmon. 



142 The c/rt of Rooking and Jerving 



STUFFED TOMATO SALAD 

6 medium-sized tomatoes 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

2 cups cooked shrimps J^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup celery, cut in pieces Y% teaspoon pepper 

Mayonnaise 
Put tomatoes in boiling water for a moment to loosen skins. Peel and chill. 
Cut slices from the stem end and scoop out some of the pulp. Cut shrimps in 
pieces and add celery, parsley, salt and pepper. Moisten with Mayonnaise 
Dressing. Fill the tomatoes with the shrimp mixture. Garnish with a spoon- 
ful of Mayonnaise and a whole shrimp. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 
Crab meat may be used in place of shrimps. 

JELLIED TUNA FISH 

% 1 tablespoon lemon juice Y% teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 2 cups flaked tuna fish 

1 cup chopped celery 1 tablespoon gelatine 

Y2 teaspoon salt 34 cup water 

1 cup cooked salad dressing 
Add lemon juice, parsley, celery, salt and pepper to the flaked fish. Soak 
gelatine in cold water 5 minutes and dissolve over hot water. Add to the 
Cooked Salad Dressing and mix with the other ingredients. Pour into molds 
which have been dipped in cold water. Chill. Unmold, garnish with lettuce 
and serve with sliced cucumbers. 

JELLIED VEGETABLE SALAD 

2}/i tablespoons gelatine 34 cup sugar 
34 cup cold water 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup boiling water 1 cup celery, cut in pieces 

3 tablespoons vinegar 1 cup shredded cabbage 
3 tablespoons lemon juice 1 cup cooked peas 

Soak gelatine in cold water 10 minutes and dissolve in boiling water. Add 
vinegar, lemon juice, sugar and salt. Stir in the vegetables and mix thoroughly. 
Turn into a mold (or individual molds) dipped in cold water. Chill. Remove 
from mold to a bed of crisp lettuce leaves. Serve with Cooked Salad Dressing 
and garnish with celery curls and radish roses. 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD 

3 tablespoons gelatine 24 teaspoon salt 
3^ cup cold water 2 teaspoons sugar 

2J^ cups canned tomatoes 1 small onion, sliced 

2 whole cloves Few grains cayenne 

Soak gelatine in cold water 10 minutes. Cook tomatoes, cloves, salt, sugar, 
onion and cayenne together 15 minutes. Add gelatine and stir until dis- 
solved. Strain. Turn into individual molds which have been dipped in cold 
water. Chill. Remove from molds to cups of crisp lettuce leaves arranged 
on individual salad plates. Garnish with Cucumber Mayonnaise. 



C^ALADS 143 



WALDORF SALAD 

3 cups diced apples 3^ cup walnuts, cut in pieces 

1 cup celery, cut in pieces % cup mayonnaise dressing 

Mix apple, celery and nuts and moisten with Mayonnaise Dressing. Arrange 
on crisp leaves of lettuce and garnish with whole nuts and candied cherries. 



Salad Accompaniments 

CHEESE FINGERS 

1 cup flour ]/2 teaspoon salt 

}/2 teaspoon baking powder 2 tablespoons Crisco 

J/g teaspoon cayenne 4 tablespoons grated cheese 

Water 

Mix and sift flour, baking powder, cayenne and salt. Cut in Crisco with a 
knife or rub in with finger tips. Add cheese and enough cold water to hold 
mixture together. Roll out on floured board to 34 inch thickness. Cut in 
very thin strips with a knife or pastry jagger. Bake in a hot oven (400 degrees 
F.) 20 minutes. 

This recipe makes about 50 fingers. 



CHEESE STRAWS 

Roll out Plain Pastry (page 178) to Y% inch thickness. Sprinkle with salt, 
cayenne and grated American cheese. Fold in 3 layers. Roll out again, 
spread and roll as before. Cut in strips Y inch wide and 4 or 5 inches long. 
Bake in hot oven (400 degrees F.) 5 or 6 minutes. 



CHEESE CREAM PUFFS 

1 cup boiling water Y% teaspoon salt 
34 cup Crisco Few grains cayenne 

l /2 cup flour Y2 cup grated American cheese 

2 eggs 

Heat water and Crisco to boiling point. Add flour, salt and cayenne, stirring 
constantly and cook until mixture leaves sides of pan. Add cheese and mix 
well. Cool. Add unbeaten eggs one at a time, beating well after each egg 
is added. Drop by teaspoons on a greased pan, making small balls. Cook in 
moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 30 to 40 minutes. 
This recipe makes 48 puffs. 



CHAPTER XVI 



Sandwiches 

THERE is an interesting bit of culinary history which 
tells us that the sandwich was named after the English 
nobleman by whom it was invented. The fourth Earl 
of Sandwich was so industrious a gambler that he wouldn't 
leave the card table even to eat. So he devised this new form 
of eating — the portable meal! 

If the story is true we owe him a debt, for sandwiches are a 
convenient and delicious food for school lunches, afternoon 
teas, picnics and motor parties. They even are becoming a 
''square meal" when made of hot meat and thick, rich gravy. 

Bread for sandwiches should be a day old so that it will not 
crumble when cut. For the daintier sandwiches it should be 
sliced very thin and the crusts cut off. It may then be cut 
with fancy shaped cutters, or diagonally, or in narrow finger- 
length oblongs. 

A quarter of an inch is not too thick for bread to be sliced 
for hearty sandwiches, and unless the crust is hard it need not 
be removed. In cutting bread keep the slices in the order in 
which they come from the loaf so that they will fit evenly when 
put together with the filling between. 

Instead of spreading your bread with butter try the new 
Crisco Spread — the first recipe in this chapter. It is a delicious 
spread for all kinds of sandwiches and much less expensive 
than butter! It has about the same consistency as mayon- 
naise dressing and is very much like it in flavor. One great 
advantage of Crisco Spread is that it may be kept in the ice box 
in a glass jar indefinitely. It is always ready for the hungry 
school boy's afternoon sandwich or the unexpected caller for 
whom you want to make a cup of tea. Less filling is needed 
to make sandwiches savory and appetizing if plenty of Crisco 

[144] 



Sandwiches 145 



Spread is used on the slices of bread. It also helps to keep 
them fresh and moist. 

If sandwiches are prepared some time before they are to 
be served, they should be wrapped in wax paper or, better still, 
covered with a damp cloth or napkin. 

The open sandwich is a rather new idea and offers opportunity 
for great variety. It consists of a single slice of bread, usually 
cut in a fancy shape, spread with Crisco Spread and daintily 
garnished. Canapes are open sandwiches made with highly 
seasoned fillings such as caviar or anchovy and are served as 
the first course at dinner or luncheon. 

SUCCESS SECRETS 

1. Use bread twenty-four hours old for sandwiches. 

2. Slice bread very thin for dainty sandwiches. 

3. Spread sandwiches with Crisco Spread instead of butter. 

4. Always keep a supply of Crisco Spread in the ice box. 

5. Get your sandwich filling ready before you cut the bread. 

6. Cover sandwiches with a clean damp cloth if they are 
prepared in advance of serving time. 

7. Serve a hearty sandwich occasionally for luncheon or 
supper. It is a good way to use up left over meat and gravy. 

8. Vary your luncheon sandwich by making it of toast. 



CRISCO SANDWICH SPREAD 

1 cup Crisco Few grains cayenne 

1 egg yolk 1 teaspoon salt 

\i teaspoon mustard 3^2 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

J/g teaspoon paprika 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

2J/2 tablespoons vinegar 
Cream Crisco. Add egg yolk slowly and beat well. Mix mustard, paprika, 
cayenne, salt, Worcestershire sauce and lemon juice together and stir into the 
first mixture. Add vinegar, beating in a little at a time. Mix thoroughly. 

This will keep in a cool place for several weeks. If it becomes hard, warm 
slightly and beat to proper consistency. 



146 The <i/rt of Rooking and Jerving 



CHEESE AND PICKLE SANDWICH 

Cut thin slices of white or graham bread and trim off crusts. Spread lightly 
with Crisco Spread. Make a filling of 1 cup grated cheese, 4 tablespoons 
chopped sweet pickle and enough Mayonnaise Dressing to moisten. Spread 
between two slices of bread. Cut in fancy shapes. 
Any home-made pickle or relish may be used. 

CHICKEN SALAD SANDWICH 

Cut thin slices of white bread and trim off crusts. Spread lightly with 
Crisco Spread. Make a filling of cold cooked chicken, cut in small cubes, and 
half the quantity of finely cut celery, seasoned with salt and pepper and mois- 
tened with Mayonnaise Dressing. Spread between two slices of bread. Cut in 
halves diagonally. 

CLUB SANDWICH 

Cut white bread in % inch slices and toast on one side. Spread untoasted 
side with Crisco Spread. Lay a crisp lettuce leaf on the bread and spread with 
Mayonnaise Dressing. On top of lettuce put layers of sliced chicken, sliced 
tomatoes and crisp bacon or cold ham. Season well with salt and pepper and 
cover with top piece of toast. Cut in halves diagonally. 

EGG AND OLIVE SANDWICH 

Cut thin slices of white or whole wheat bread and trim off crusts. Spread 
lightly with Crisco Spread. Chop 2 hard cooked eggs fine, add % cup chopped 
olives and enough Mayonnaise Dressing to moisten. Spread between two slices 
of bread. Cut in fancy shapes. 

HOT HAM SANDWICH 

Cut slices of white bread and trim off crusts. Spread lightly with Crisco 
Spread. On one slice arrange a slice of ham and a thin slice of cheese and put 
another slice of bread on top. Mix % cup milk, 1 beaten egg and }/£ teaspoon 
salt together, dip sandwich in it and saute in hot Crisco until brown on both 
sides. Drain on unglazed paper. Serve hot. 

LETTUCE SANDWICH 

Cut thin slices of white or whole wheat bread and trim off the crusts. Spread 
lightly with Crisco Spread. Lay a crisp leaf of lettuce on a slice of bread, 
spread with Mayonnaise Dressing and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Cover 
with another slice of bread and cut sandwich in halves diagonally. Serve 
at once. 

BROILED LUNCHEON SANDWICH 

Cut white bread in 34 inch slices and trim off crusts. Spread lightly with 
Crisco Spread. Cover bread with thin slices of American cheese. Then put 
slices of tomato on the cheese and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Lay 2 strips 
of bacon over the top. 



Sandwiches 147 



Place under the broiler and cook 6 to 8 minutes or until cheese is melted and 
bacon crisp. 

NUT AND RAISIN SANDWICH 

Cut thin slices of white or graham bread and trim off crusts. Spread lightly 
with Crisco Spread. Make a filling of 1 cup chopped raisins and 34 cup chopped 
nuts moistened with Mayonnaise Dressing. Spread between two slices of bread* 
Cut with round cooky cutter. 

PEANUT BUTTER SANDWICH 

Cut thin slices of white or rye bread and trim off crusts. Spread one slice 
with peanut butter and the other with Crisco Spread. Put together and cut 
in halves diagonally. 

PICKLED WALNUT AND CHEESE SANDWICH 

Cut thin slices of white or whole wheat bread and trim off crusts. Spread 
lightly with Crisco Spread. Mash 3 pickled walnuts to a paste with 34 pound 
of sharp or snappy cheese. Moisten with Mayonnaise Dressing and spread 
between two slices of bread. Cut with cooky cutter in round or fancy shapes. 

SARDINE SANDWICH 

Cut thin slices of white or graham bread and trim off crusts. Spread lightly 
with Crisco Spread. Drain the oil from one can of sardines and remove skin 
and bones. Mash to a paste and moisten with a little lemon juice. Spread 
between two slices of bread. Put a crisp leaf of lettuce on top the sardine 
mixture, just before serving. Cut in halves diagonally. 

CANAPE DIAGONAL 

Cut bread in J4 inch slices and cut in oblong pieces \ l /2 inches wide and 4 inches 
long. Toast on one side. Spread other side lightly with Crisco Spread. 
Cover with a thin layer of anchovy paste. Sprinkle with yolks of hard cooked 
eggs pressed through a sieve. Cut anchovies in very thin slices and place 
them diagonally across the bread. Put a 34 inch border of chopped hard 
cooked egg whites around the edge of each piece. 

CAVIAR CANAPE 

Cut bread in }4 inch slices and cut in oblong pieces 1J/2 inches wide and 4 
inches long. Toast on one side and spread other side lightly with Crisco 
Spread. Cover with caviar mixed with a little finely chopped onion. Around 
the edge put a 34 inch border of yolks of hard cooked eggs pressed through a 
sieve. Lay a Y% inch strip of green pepper in the center. 

CANAPE SUPREME 

Cut bread in \i inch slices and cut in circles with a cooky cutter. Spread one 
side lightly with Crisco Spread, cover with highly seasoned or snappy cheese 



148 The <^rt of Rooking and Serving 



mashed to a smooth paste. Place an anchovy in the center of each and put a 
34 inch border of finely chopped hard cooked eggs around the edge. 

CHEESE AND OLIVE CANAPE 

Cut bread in 34 inch slices and cut in circles with a cooky cutter. Toast one 
side. Spread other side lightly with Crisco Spread. Cover with cream cheese 
moistened with Mayonnaise Dressing. Put a slice of stuffed olive in the center 
and put a 34 inch border of finely chopped stuffed olives around the edge. 

WIDE OPEN SANDWICHES 

1 cup ham, chopped 2 tablespoons chopped sour pickle 

1 hard cooked egg, chopped Few grains pepper 

2 tablespoons chopped green pepper Finger rolls 

Mix together ham, egg, green pepper, pickle and pepper. Moisten with 
Mayonnaise Dressing. Split rolls. Spread both halves lightly with Crisco. 
Spread and cover with some of the ham mixture. Decorate tops with thin 
slices of pickle and strips of green pepper. Serve open. 



CHAPTER XVII 



Cakes and Cookies 

HAVE you ever wondered where all the cake recipes come 
from? Every cook book you look over has a chapter 
on cakes and each recipe looks different! 

But if you study these recipes carefully you will find that they 
are not so different after all and that they are really only varia- 
tions of two kinds of cakes, those made with shortening and those 
made without shortening. If we learn the general method of 
mixing these two kinds of cake it is easy to follow all recipes. 

Cakes made with shortening are probably the most popular, 
so let us discuss first the rules for mixing them. Step number 
one consists in blending together the shortening and the sugar. 
If this is done thoroughly the texture of the cake will not be 
grainy. This process is called "creaming," and is done by 
pressing Crisco and the sugar against the sides of the bowl 
with the back of a wooden or metal mixing spoon until the 
mixture is of a smooth creamy consistency. New super-creamed 
Crisco is so soft and smooth that it actually cuts creaming time 
in half. 

In many cases, particularly in batters containing- whole eggs 
or yolks, the eggs can be mixed directly with the sugar and 
Crisco. This is possible only with a shortening that is as soft 
and creamy as the new super-creamed Crisco. It is desirable not 
only because it simplifies the mixing process, but also because of 
the water in the eggs which provides a solvent for the sugar, and 
thereby helps to produce a more perfectly blended mixture. 

The flour is sifted, measured and mixed with any other dry 
ingredients such as salt, baking powder and spices. 1 his flour 
mixture is then added to the Crisco mixture, put it is not all 
put in at once. First, some of the flour goes into the mixing 
bowl, then some of the milk called for by the recipe and after 
each addition the ingredients in the bowl are beaten well. When 
all the flour and milk are in, the batter should have a final beat- 

[149] 




The first step in cake making consists of blending together the shorten- 
ing and the sugar. This process is called "creaming" and is done by 
pressing Crisco and sugar against the sides of the bowl with the back 
of a wooden spoon until the mixture is of a smooth creamy consistency 

ing, lasting from one minute for a plain cake to three minutes 
for a rich one. When not beaten long enough a cake has a 
porous, open texture with large holes; on the other hand too much 
beating makes a close-grained, tough cake. 

The method for mixing the other kind of cakes, those without 
shortening, starts by separating the yolks from the whites of 
the eggs. For sponge cakes the yolks are beaten until thick, 
then the sugar added gradually and last the beaten whites, flour 
and flavoring are folded in. 

Sponge and angel cakes require a slower oven than cakes 
made with shortening — from 320 to 340 degrees, depending 
upon the depth of the pan in which they are baked. 

For baking any kind of cake an oven thermometer should be 
used instead of trusting to the "feel" of the oven. We are not 
all equally sensitive to heat and what may feel "slow" to one 
person may feel "medium" to another. An accurate tempera- 
ture for baking cake is next in importance to careful measure- 
ments of the ingredients which go into it. A cake baked in 
too slow an oven rises over the sides of the pan and has a coarse, 
open texture, while one baked in too hot an oven becomes solid 
and close-grained with a hard crust. 

[ 150 1 




Loosen cake from pan by slipping a knife around the edge between 

the cake and the pan, then invert pan and allow cake to cool on a wire 

rack so that the air can circulate around it 



Cakes should be allowed to cool on a wire cooler so the air can 
circulate around them. When turned out on a bread board, or 
other solid surface, moisture condenses and makes them wet 
and sticky. 

As soon as cake is cool it may be frosted or "iced" and put 
away in a tin cake box in a cool place. The care of cakes after 
baking is an important factor in their keeping — the longer they 
are exposed to the air the more quickly the cake dries out. 

Of the cakes made with shortening the plainer ones should 
be used the same day, or at least by the following day. Layer 
cakes which are put together with soft "fillings," how r ever, and 
the richer cakes, made with more Crisco and more eggs, will 
keep fresh for several days. 

Not only do cakes made with new super-creamed Crisco keep 
well but they have a light, delicate, even texture and a delicious 
flavor. Crisco blends very easily with sugar in the first step of 
cake making. 

Even in extremely hot weather when it seems desirable to keep 
Crisco in the refrigerator (at all other times it should be kept at 
ordinary room temperature) no difficulty in mixing will be en- 

[1511 




As soon as cake is cool it may be frosted or "iced." Use a spatula 

to spread on the frosting; and a pastry bag — if you have one — to 

frost small cakes and put fancy touches on large ones 

countered. Super-creamed Crisco does not become hard and 
brittle in cold weather or under refrigerator conditions, but on 
the contrary keeps its creamy consistency and is always ready 
to measure and mix without preliminary conditioning. 

If you once make your cakes with the new super-creamed 
Crisco by the following recipes you will never make them with 
anything else. And think of the money you save by not having 
to use butter. 



SUCCESS SECRETS 

1. Use level measurements. 

2. Sift flour before measuring. 

3. Gather all ingredients together and grease cake pan with 
Crisco before starting to mix cake. 

4. Cream Crisco and sugar together thoroughly — on this de- 
pends a good-textured cake. 

5. Beat cake batter from one to three minutes, after all the 
ingredients are in. Rich cakes require longer beating than 
plain cakes. 

6. Don't let cake batter stand around after mixing. Have 
oven at correct temperature and put cake in at once. 

[ 152 ] 



£akes and Rookies 153 

7. When baking without a thermometer, or oven regulator, 
divide the baking time into quarters, as: 

1st quarter — Cake batter should rise. 

2nd quarter — Cake should continue to rise 

and begin to brown. 
3rd quarter — Rising should be completed and 

cake continue to brown. 
4th quarter — Cake should "settle" and shrink 

from pan. 

8. When cake is done — 

(a) It will spring back when pressed lightly 
with the finger. 

(b) It shrinks from the sides of the pan. 

9. Cool cake quickly — on wire rack — but do not let it dry 
out. 

10. Frost cake as soon as cool. 

11. Keep left over egg whites covered and in a cool place so 
that they will not dry out. 

12. Plan to use up plain cakes quickly as they become stale 
sooner than rich cakes made with several eggs and plenty 
of Crisco. 

// you have a favorite cake recipe of your own calling for batter, 
use Crisco instead and double the amount of salt. If no salt is 
called for use one-quarter teaspoon to each cup of flour. 



RICH CAKE 



% cup Crisco 3 teaspoons baking powder 

13^ cups sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

4 eggs : i cup milk 
3 cups flour 2 teaspoons vanilla 

Cream Crisco, sugar and egg yolks together. Mix and sift flour, baking pow del 
and salt and add alternately with the milk to the first mixture. Fold in stiffly 
beaten whites. Add vanilla. Bake in greased cup cake pans in a quick oven 
(425 degrees F.) 20 minutes, or in 3 layer cake pans in a hot oven (400 d< 
F.) 25 minutes. Spread layers and top of cake with Boiled Frosting 11 to 
which has been added J/£ cup chopped raisins, J/£ cup chopped candied clu-rru I 
and J/£ cup chopped nuts. 



154 The ^Akt of Rooking and Jerving 



ALMOND CAKE 

Follow recipe for Rich Cake. Add Y2 cup blanched almonds and Y CU P candied 
cherries, cut in thin strips. Substitute Yi teaspoon almond flavoring for Y2 
teaspoon of the vanilla. Bake in a greased loaf pan in a moderate oven (350 
degrees F.) 60 to 80 minutes. 

R A I S I N CAKE 

Follow recipe for Rich Cake. Add % cup raisins mixed with a little of the 
flour. Bake in a greased loaf pan in a moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 60 to 80 

minutes. 

NUT CAKE 

Follow recipe for Rich Cake. Add 1 cup English walnuts, cut in pieces and 
mixed with a little of the flour. Bake in a greased loaf pan in a moderate 
oven (350 degrees F.) 60 to 80 minutes. Any kind of nuts may be used in 
this recipe. 

CURRANT SPICE CAKE 

Follow recipe for Rich Cake. Add 1 teaspoon cinnamon, Y2 teaspoon clove, 
Y teaspoon nutmeg and Y± cup currants. Mix these with the flour before 
adding. Bake in a greased loaf or round pan in a moderate oven (350 degrees 
F.) 60 to 80 minutes. 

Cover with Boiled Frosting II. 

LAYER CAKE 

}-3 cup Crisco 3 teaspoons baking powder 

% cup sugar J 2 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs up milk 

\Yi cups flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream Crisco, sugar and eggs together. Mix and sift flour, baking powder 
and salt and add alternately with the milk to the first mixture. Add vanilla 
and beat thoroughly. Bake in 2 greased layer cake pans in a hot oven (400 
degrees F.) 20 to 25 minutes. Cool. Put layers together with any cream filling 
(chocolate, pineapple, lemon, orange or cocoanut). Ice top with Confectioners' 
Frosting. 

QUICK CAKE 

1 cup sugar : 4 cup melted Crisco 
V/2 cups flour 2 eggs 

2 teaspoons baking powder Milk 

V2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix sugar, flour, baking powder and salt and sift three times. Put Crisco in 
measuring cup, add eggs and fill cup with milk. Add liquid to the sifted flour mix- 
ture. Add vanilla and beat thoroughly. Bake in 2 greased layer cake pans in hot 
oven (400 degrees F.) 15 to 20 minutes. Cool. Put layers together and ice 
top with Quick Frosting. This cake may also be baked in greased muffin pans. 



£akes and Rookies 155 



MOTHER'S TEA CAKES 

3^ cup Crisco 1J/2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 
}/£ teaspoon salt J/£ cup milk 

2 eggs Y2 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream Crisco, sugar, salt and eggs together. Beat until light and soft. Mix 
and sift flour and baking powder and add to the first mixture alternately with 
the milk. Add vanilla. Beat thoroughly and pour into well-greased shallow 
baking pan. Bake in hot oven (375 degrees F.) 30 minutes. When partly cool, 
dust with powdered sugar, cut in squares and serve while warm. 

GOLD CAKE 

J/2 cup Crisco 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon salt 
8 egg yolks J/£ cup milk 

V/2 cups flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream Crisco and sugar together. Add well-beaten egg yolks. Mix and sift 
flour, baking powder and salt and add alternately with the milk to the first 
mixture. Add vanilla and beat thoroughly. Bake in 2 greased layer cake pans 
in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 20 minutes. When cool, put layers together 
and ice top and sides with honey frosting. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 

}/2 cup Crisco 1 teaspoon salt 

1/^ cups sugar 1 cup milk 

2J/2 cups cake flour 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

2 teaspoons baking powder 4 egg whites 

Blend Crisco and sugar until light. (No creaming is needed with super-creamed 
Crisco.) Sift flour, baking powder, and salt together. Add alternately with the 
milk. Add lemon juice and then the beaten egg whites. Pour into two round 
layer pans (9-inch) rubbed with Crisco and dusted with flour, and bake in a 
moderate oven (350°F.). When cool, spread Lady Baltimore Filling between 
layers. Ice with Boiled Icing. 

Lady Baltimore Filling 
z /i cup chopped raisins } 2 CU P drained and chopped 

% cup chopped walnuts maraschino cherries 

l /l cup chopped steamed figs 34 CU P icing 

Mix chopped fruit and nuts together. Add one-quarter cup of icing prepared 
for top. Blend thoroughly. 

Boiled Icing 
2 cups sugar J^ cup water 

3^ cup light corn syrup 2 egg whites 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
Cook sugar, corn syrup, and water, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Boil to 
242°F., or until syrup forms a soft ball in cold water. Pour this syrup ov< 
whites beaten stiff. Beat constantly until mixture holds its shape. Add vanilla. 




(^urrant £pke fake (Recipe on page 154) 




^nicker "Doodles (Recipe on page 158) 



£*akes and Rookies 157 



ORANGE CAKE 

% cup Crisco 3 teaspoons baking powder 

\}/2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

3 eggs % cup orange juice 

3 cups flour 34 CU P water 

Cream Crisco, sugar and egg yolks together. Mix and sift flour, baking powder 
and salt and add alternately with the combined orange juice and water to the 
first mixture. Stir in beaten whites. Pour into 3 greased layer cake pans and 
bake in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 20 to 25 minutes. Cool. Spread Orange 
Icing II between layers and on top of cake. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE 

3^$ cup Crisco 3 squares unsweetened chocolate 

1 cup sugar 13^2 cups flour 

2 eggs 23^2 teaspoons baking powder 
% cup milk 1 teaspoon salt 

13^ teaspoons vanilla 
Cream Crisco, sugar and eggs together. Cook the milk and chocolate, cut in 
pieces, over a slow fire, stirring until thick. Cool. Mix and sift flour, baking 
powder and salt and add alternately with the chocolate to the first mixture. 
Add vanilla and beat thoroughly. Bake in 2 layer cake pans in moderate oven 
(3 50 degrees F.) 25 to 30 minutes. Cool. Spread Marshmallow Frosting 
between layers and on top. Sprinkle with chopped nuts. 

MARBLE CAKE 

% cup Crisco 1 teaspoon salt 

13^ cups sugar 1 cup milk 

4 eggs 2 teaspoons vanilla 

3 cups flour 2 squares unsweetened chocolate 

3 teaspoons baking powder 34 cup ml ^ 

Cream Crisco, sugar and egg yolks together. Mix and sift flour, baking powder 
and salt and add alternately with 1 cup milk to the first mixture. Add vanilla 
and egg whites beaten until light and fluffy but not stiff. Blend thoroughly. 
Divide the batter in halves. Melt the chocolate over hot water with 34 cup 
milk and add to one-half of the batter. Put batter into a greased loaf pan using 
a spoonful of chocolate mixture and one of the white, alternately, until all is 
used. Bake in a moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 60 to 80 minutes. 

DATE CAKE 

% cup Crisco 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

13^ cups brown sugar 3^ teaspoon nutmeg 

4 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 

334 cups flour 13^ cups dates, stoned and cut 

5 teaspoons baking powder in small pieces 

% cup milk 
Cream Crisco, sugar and egg yolks together. Mix and sift flour, baking pow- 
der, cinnamon, nutmeg and salt and add alternately with the milk to the first 



158 The ^rt of Rooking and Jerving 



mixture. Stir in well-beaten egg whites. Add dates and mix well. Pour into 
a greased tube or loaf pan and bake in a moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 50 to 
60 minutes. Cool. This cake may be frosted, if desired. 

GINGER CAKE 

5 tablespoons Crisco H cup sour milk 

Y% cup sugar 1% cups flour 

1 egg 2 teaspoons ginger 

Yl cup molasses 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 teaspoon soda H teaspoon salt 

Cream Crisco, sugar and egg together. Stir in molasses. Dissolve soda in the 
sour milk. Mix and sift flour, ginger, cinnamon and salt together and add 
alternately with the sour milk to the first mixture. Pour into a greased shallow 
pan and bake in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 25 to 30 minutes. Serve hot with 
whipped cream. 

SNICKER DOODLES 

3^ cup Crisco 1 tablespoon hot water 

1 cup sugar 23^ cups flour 

2 eggs J^ teaspoon salt 
}^ cup seeded raisins % teaspoon clove 
3^ cup currants 3^ teaspoon mace 

3^ cup nuts 13^ teaspoons cinnamon 

1 teaspoon soda % cup sour milk 

Cream Crisco, sugar and egg yolks together. Add raisins, currants and nuts, 
cut fine. Add soda, dissolved in hot water. Mix and sift flour, salt and spices 
and add alternately with the sour milk to the first mixture. Fold in one stiffly 
beaten egg white. (Save other white for frosting.) Pour into well-greased 
muffin pans and bake in a hot oven (375 degrees F.) 15 to 20 minutes. 
This recipe makes 18 medium-sized cup cakes. 

Frosting 

1 egg white Confectioners' sugar 

2 tablespoons sweet cream 34 teaspoon mace 

Add cream to unbeaten egg white and mix well. Add sugar, a little at a 
time, until frosting is the right consistency to spread. Add mace and mix well. 

COFFEE FRUIT CAKE 

1 cup Crisco 4 cups flour 

2 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon salt 
4 eggs 1 teaspoon clove 

1 cup strong coffee 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 teaspoon soda 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 cup molasses 1 pound currants 

1 pound raisins 
Cream Crisco and sugar together. Add eggs one at a time, blending in thor- 
oughly. Stir in coffee. Add soda mixed with molasses. Mix and sift flour, 
salt and spices. Add enough of the flour mixture to the fruit to keep it from, 



£akes and Rookies 159 



sticking together. Add the remainder to the first mixture. Add fruit and mix 
thoroughly. Line bottom of a large pan with several layers of greased brown 
paper and grease sides of pan. Pour in the cake batter and bake in a very slow 
oven (250 degrees F.) 2 to 3 hours. A small pan of water in the oven helps to 
keep the cake from burning during the long cooking. 

MOLASSES CAKE 

3^ cup Crisco 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Yl cup sugar 34 teaspoon clove 

3 eggs 34 teaspoon mace 

% teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon salt 

% cup molasses 3^ CU P milk 

2 l /i cups flour 3^ cup raisins 

Cream Crisco, sugar and egg yolks together. Add soda, mixed with the 
molasses. Mix and sift flour, cinnamon, clove, mace and salt, and add alter- 
nately with the milk to the first mixture. Stir in beaten whites. Dredge the 
raisins lightly with flour and stir in lightly. Pour into a greased loaf pan and 
bake in a moderate oven (330 degrees F.) 50 to 60 minutes. 

POUND CAKE 

1 cup Crisco 2 cups flour 

V/i cups sugar 1J^ teaspoons salt 

5 eggs 3^8 teaspoon mace 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
Cream Crisco and sugar together. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after 
the addition of each egg. Add the flour, salt and mace. Add vanilla and beat 
thoroughly. Bake in a greased tube pan or loaf pan in a moderate oven (350 
degrees F.) 60 to 80 minutes. 

BREAD CRUMB CAKE 

3 egg yolks 1 cup soft bread crumbs 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

3 tablespoons cold water 1 tablespoon melted Crisco 

% cup walnuts, cut in small pieces 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 egg whites 
Beat egg yolks until thick and lemon colored. Add sugar and water. Add 
the nuts, bread crumbs, baking powder and Crisco and mix well. Add vanilla 
and fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in 2 greased layer cake pans in a 
hot oven (400 degrees F.) 15 to 20 minutes. When cool, spread whipped cream, 
sweetened and flavored, between layers and on top of cake. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

}/2 cup Crisco 1 cup thick apple sauce 

V/2 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

1 egg 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 teaspoon soda l A, teaspoon clove 

\}/2 to 2 cups flour 
Cream Crisco, sugar and egg together. Dissolve soda in apple sauce and add. 
Sift salt, cinnamon and clove with part of the flour and add to the first mixture. 




^Potato fakes (Recipe on page 109) 




(§panhh Omelet (Recipe on page 78) 







*& 




m : 


^ 




- -»* ^"^^^ 





Dutch Apple C a ^ e ( R ecipe on page 190) 




nipple fritters (Recipe on page 50) 



162 The ey^RT of Rooking and Jerving 



Add enough more flour to make a fairly stiff batter. (The amount depends 
upon the thickness of the apple sauce.) Pour into a greased loaf pan and bake 
in moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 50 to 60 minutes. 1 cup raisins may be 
added to the batter. 

GRAHAM CRACKER CAKE 

3^ cup Crisco 2 doz. graham crackers 
1 cup granulated sugar (2 cups crumbs) 

3 eggs 2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 cup milk 1 cup chopped nuts 

}/% teaspoon salt 
Cream Crisco and sugar together, beat yolks of eggs till light and add to this. 
Then add milk. Roll the crackers fine. Mix baking powder with cracker crumbs, 
add this to other mixture together with salt and chopped nuts. Last add beaten 
whites of eggs. Bake in 2 layers in oven 375 degrees F. When cool spread 
whipped cream, sweetened and flavored, between layers and on top of cake. 

ANGEL CAKE 

8 egg whites 1 cup pastry flour 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar y± teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat egg whites slightly. Add cream of tartar and beat until stiff. Add the 
sifted sugar gradually, beating constantly. Fold in the flour and salt which 
have been sifted together 4 times. Add vanilla. Pour into a tube pan and 
bake in a moderate oven (325 degrees F.) 50 to 60 minutes. Turn upside down 
on a cake cooler and let stand until the cake drops out. 

SPONGE CAKE 

6 egg yolks 6 egg whites 

1 cup sugar 1 cup flour 

\]/2 tablespoons lemon juice ]/2 teaspoon salt 

Beat egg yolks until thick and lemon colored. Add sugar gradually and con- 
tinue beating. Add lemon juice and fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites. 
Fold in the flour and salt, mixed and sifted together. Pour into a tube pan 
and bake in a moderate oven (325 degrees F.) 50 to 60 minutes. 

CHOCOLATE ROLL 

4 egg whites 1 cup flour 

]/2 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

4 egg yolks y 2 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons cold water 1 cup cream 

4 tablespoons cocoa 2 tablespoons confectioners' 

Yl teaspoon vanilla sugar 

Beat egg whites until stiff. Add sugar gradually, beating constantly. Add 
beaten egg yolks and water. Mix and sift cocoa, flour, baking powder and salt 
and fold into the first mixture. Line a long shallow pan with greased paper. 
Pour the batter into the pan. Bake in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 15 to 20 



£akes and Rookies 163 



minutes. Turn out on a damp cloth and cool slightly. Spread with the stiffly 
beaten cream sweetened with confectioners' sugar and flavored with vanilla. 
Roll like jelly roll. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

SOUR CREAM CAKES 

1 tablespoon Crisco 3^ cup sour cream 

1 cup sugar 1% cups flour 

2 eggs \]/2 teaspoons salt 

3^ teaspoon soda 3^ teaspoon cream of tartar 

}/$ teaspoon mace 
Cream Crisco, sugar and oggs together. Beat until very light. Dissolve soda 
in sour cream. Mix and sift flour, salt, cream of tartar and mace, and add 
alternately with the cream to the first mixture. Beat thoroughly. Bake in small 
greased cup cake pans in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 15 to 20 minutes. 
This recipe makes about 18 small cakes. 

CUP CAKES 

^2 cup Crisco 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup sugar J^ teaspoon salt 

3 eggs 3^ cup milk 

1% cups flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream Crisco, sugar and eggs together. Mix and sift flour, baking powder 
and salt and add alternately with the milk to the first mixture. Add vanilla 
and beat thoroughly. Pour into greased muffin or cup cake pans and bake in 
quick oven (375 degrees F.) 15 to 20 minutes. 
This recipe makes 15 to 20 cakes. 

FILLED CUP CAKES 

Follow recipe for Cup Cakes. When cool split in halves crosswise and remove 
portion of the cake. Fill center with stiffly whipped cream, flavored and 
sweetened. Put halves together and ice all over with Boiled Frosting I or 
Creamy Chocolate Frosting. 

FILLED CHOCOLATE CAKES 

Follow recipe for Devil's Food Cake. Bake in small, greased cup cake pans in 
a quick oven (425 degrees F.) 15 to 20 minutes. While hot remove a square 
from the top of each cake and substitute a marshmallow in place of the cake 
removed. Ice with Boiled Frosting I. 

SUGAR COOKIES 

% cup Crisco 13^ teaspoons salt 

1/4 cups sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 eggs Grated rind 1 orange 

3 cups flour 1 tablespoon orange juice 

Cream Crisco, sugar and eggs together. Mix and sift flour, salt and baking 
powder and add to the first mixture. Add orange rind and juice and mix to a 
smooth dough. Chill. Roll out thin on slightly floured board and cut with 
cooky cutter. Sprinkle with sugar and bake in a moderate oven (325 degrees 
F.) 12 to 15 minutes, This recipe makes about 60 cookies. 



164 The ^rt of Rooking and Jerving 



SAND TARTS 

Follow recipe for Sugar Cookies. Use 1 teaspoon vanilla for flavoring instead 
of orange juice and rind. Cut into diamonds or squares and brush with white 
of egg. Sprinkle with sugar, dust with cinnamon and decorate with a blanched 
almond in center. 

SPICE COOKIES 

Follow recipe for Sugar Cookies. Sift 3^8 teaspoon clove, 34 teaspoon nutmeg 
and Y2 teaspoon cinnamon with the flour. Use 1 teaspoon vanilla flavoring 
instead of orange juice and rind. 

FILLED COOKIES 

Follow recipe for Sugar Cookies. Roll out cooky dough very thin and cut into 
circles. Put a small teaspoon of jam in the center of one circle. Cover with 
another circle of dough, pressing the edges firmly together. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES 

Follow recipe for Sugar Cookies. Add Y2 CU P cocoa, moistened with 3 table- 
spoons hot water or coffee, when the eggs are added. Use 1 teaspoon vanilla 
flavoring instead of orange juice and rind. 

PEANUT COOKIES 

Follow recipe for Sugar Cookies. Add 1 cup finely chopped peanuts to the 
cooky dough. 

COCOA NUT COOKIES 

Follow recipe for Sugar Cookies. Add 1 cup shredded cocoanut to the cooky 
dough. 

RAISIN COOKIES 

Follow recipe for Sugar Cookies. Press 4 Sultana raisins in each cooky before 
baking. Sprinkle with sugar. 

NUT COOKIES 

Follow recipe for Sugar Cookies. Brush with egg white, before baking, and 
sprinkle with sugar and chopped nuts. 

MOLASSES CRISPS 

34 cup Crisco % cup molasses 

Y2 cup sugar 1 cup flour 

% teaspoon salt 
Melt Crisco, add sugar and molasses and bring to boiling point. Cool slightly 
and add flour and salt. Drop by teaspoons 2 inches apart on a greased sheet. 



£akes and Rookies 165 



Cook in moderate oven (325 degrees F.) 15 minutes. Remove from the pan 
when beginning to cool and turn quickly around the finger to form rolls. 
This recipe makes about 36 cookies. 

HERMITS 

1 cup Crisco XYl teaspoons salt 

13^ cups sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon allspice 

Yi teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon clove 

2 teaspoons water 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

3 cups flour \Y> cups raisins 

Y cup nuts, cut in pieces 
Cream Crisco, sugar and eggs together. Dissolve soda in water and add. 
Mix and sift flour, salt and spices and add to the first mixture. Add raisins 
and nuts and mix thoroughly. Drop by teaspoons on greased pans. Bake in 
moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 15 to 20 minutes. These cookies improve on 
keeping in stone crock or cooky jar. 
This recipe makes about 70 hermits. 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

\}/2 cups rolled oats Y teaspoon cinnamon 

Y cup brown sugar J/2 teaspoon soda 

% cup white flour 34 CU P boiling water 

1 teaspoon salt Y2 CU P melted Crisco 

Mix oats, sugar, flour, salt and cinnamon together. Add soda, dissolved in 
boiling water, and Crisco. Mix well. Chill. Roll out thin on slightly floured 
board. Cut with cooky cutter and bake in moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 
12 to 15 minutes. 
This recipe makes about 30 cookies. 

LACE WAFERS 

2 tablespoons Crisco Yi teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup sugar 2Yi cups rolled oats 

2 eggs 2Yi teaspoons baking powder 
Y2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Y teaspoon maple or almond flavoring 
Cream Crisco, sugar and eggs together. Mix salt, nutmeg, rolled oats and bak- 
ing powder. Add to the first mixture and mix thoroughly. Add flavoring. 
Drop by teaspoons on greased pans, two inches apart. Bake in a moderate 
oven (350 degrees F.) 12 to 15 minutes. 
This recipe makes about 60 cookies. 

DATE BARS 

1 cup stoned dates 1 tablespoon melted Crisco 

1 cup nuts 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 cup powdered sugar 4 tablespoons flour 

2 eggs Y teaspoon salt 

Put dates and nuts through food chopper. Add sugar and beaten eggs and 
mix well. Add melted Crisco, lemon juice, flour and salt and mix thoroughly. 



166 The ^Art of Rooking and Serving 



Spread evenly in a greased shallow pan, having mixture 34 inch deep. Bake 
in a moderate oven (325 degrees F.) about 30 minutes. While hot cut in strips 
and roll in powdered sugar before serving. 

CHOCOLATE INDIANS 

% cup Crisco 3^ cup flour 

1 cup sugar 1 cup walnuts, cut in pieces 

2 eggs 2 squares unsweetened chocolate 
1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream Crisco and sugar together. Add beaten eggs, salt and flour. Add nuts, 
melted chocolate and vanilla and mix well. Spread evenly in a greased shallow 
pan, having mixture 34 inch deep. Bake in a moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 
20 to 25 minutes. While hot cut in squares. 

MARGUERITES 

Follow recipe for Boiled Frosting I. Add 1 cup of chopped nuts and 1 table- 
spoon melted Crisco. Beat the mixture until it will hold its shape. Drop 
by teaspoons on soda or salted crackers. Bake in a moderate oven (350 
degrees F.) 15 minutes or until a delicate brown. 

ALMOND MACAROONS 

3 egg whites 3^ lb. finely chopped almonds 
1 cup sugar 10 drops almond extract 

1 tablespoon melted Crisco 

Beat egg whites. Add sugar gradually, beating constantly. Add almonds, 
flavoring and Crisco. Mix well. Drop by teaspoons on wet paper which has 
been placed on inverted pan or bread board. Bake in slow oven (275 degrees F.) 
30 to 40 minutes. 

This recipe makes about 45 macaroons. 

Frostings and Fillings 

BOILED FROSTING I 

1% cups sugar 2 egg whites 

}/2 cup water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cook sugar and water together, stirring until the sugar is dissolved. Boil 
without stirring to 238 degrees F. (or until the syrup forms a soft ball when 
tested in cold water). Pour over the stiffly beaten egg whites and beat con- 
stantly until the mixture holds its shape. When cool add vanilla. 

BROWN SUGAR FROSTING 

Follow the recipe for Boiled Frosting I, substituting brown sugar for the white 
sugar and cook until 240 degrees F. is reached. 



£ake$ and £V>ok 167 



MAPLE SUGAR FROSTING 

the recipe for Boiled Frosting I, substituting maple sugar, broken into 
small pieces, for the white sugar. 1 3 4 cups maple sugar weighs about 12 ounces. 

HONEY FROSTING 

Follow the recipe for Boiled Frosting I. After the syrup has been beaten into 
the etj^ whites add } 4 cup honey. 

COCO A X U T MARSH M ALLOW F R O S T I N G 

Follow the recipe for Boiled Frosting I. Add 1 ;up marshmallows cut in small 
pieces and 1 o cup shredded cocoanut. 

BOILED FROSTING II 

2 :ups sugar jp water 

nip light corn syrup gg whites 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cook sugar, syrup and water together, stirring until ^ugar is dissolved. Boil 
without stirring to 244 degrees F. or until syrup forms a rather hrm ball when 
tested in cold water;. Pour this syrup slowly over the stiffly beaten egg whites, 
beating constantly. Continue beating until mixture holds its shape. Add 
vanilla. This frosting will keep in a covered jar in a cool place. If it becomes 
hard on standing, add a very small amount of hot water and beat well. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

Follow the recipe for Boiled Frosting II, adding 5 squares of melted unsweetened 
chocolate after all the syrup is added. 

LADY BALTIMORE FROSTING AND FILLING 

Follow the recipe for Boiled Frosting I. Divide the frosting in halves and 
reserve a half for top and sides of cake. To the remainder (to be used Im 
the layers*, add 

1 cup chopped raisins l^ CU P chopped citron 

1 cup chopped walnuts 1 cup chopped figs 

:up blanched and chopped almonds l ± cup chopped candied cherries 

ORNAMENTAL FROSTING 

ups sugar 2 egg whites 

jp water : 4 teaspoon cream of tartar 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cook sugar and water together, stirring until the sugar is dissolved. Boil 

without stirring to 240 degrees F. (or until the syrup forms a rather firm ball 
when tested in cold water). Pour the syrup slowly over the stiffly beaten egg 
whites, beating constantly. Place the bowl of frosting in a pan of hot 

and beat until there is a slight scraping noise along the sides of the bowl and 

the frosting holds its shape. Spread between layers and on top of cake. Re- 
some to force through a pastry bag to decorate top of cake. 



168 The ^rt of Rooking and Serving 



QUICK FROSTING 

1 cup sugar 1 egg white 

J 4 cup water ] 2 teaspoon vanilla 

Put sugar, water and unbeaten egg white in saucepan and cook over boiling 
water. Beat constantly until frosting is the proper consistency to spread. 
Add vanilla. 

APPLE SNOW FROSTING 

1 cup sugar 1 egg white 

J4 cup water 1 apple, grated 

1 o teaspoon vanilla 
Cook sugar and water together, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Cook to 240 
degrees F. ^or until it forms a rather firm ball when tested in cold water >. Pour 
syrup gradually over the stiffly beaten egg whites. Add apple and continue 
beating until the mixture will hold its shape. Add vanilla. 

CARAMEL FROSTING 

3 cups brown sugar 1 cup milk 

\/2 teaspoon salt 1 2 cup chopped pecan or 

2 tablespoons Crisco walnut meats 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
Put sugar, salt, Crisco and milk over the hre and stir until sugar is dissolved, 
and then only occasionally to prevent burning. Cook to 256 degrees F. or 
until it forms a soft ball when tested in cold water). Cool slightly. Add nuts 
and vanilla. Beat until the frosting is the proper consistency to spread. 

CREAM MAPLE FROSTING 

1 pound maple sugar J£ cup cream 

Break sugar into small pieces. Add cream and cook, stirring until the sugar is 
dissolved and then only occasionally to prevent burning. Cook over a slow 
fire to 238 degrees F. ^or until it forms a soft ball when tested in cold water). 
Remove from hre and beat until it will hold its shape. 

CREAMY CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

1 : 2 c ups milk 1^2 cups powdered sugar 

4 squares unsweetened chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Few grains salt 
Cook milk with chocolate, cut in pieces, over a slow hre, stirring until thick and 
smooth. Add sugar and cook again until very thick, stirring constantly. 
Cool and add vanilla and salt. 

FUDGE FROSTING 

\]/2 cups brown sugar % cup evaporated milk, or milk 

l}4 cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 squares unsweetened chocolate Yf> teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon Crisco 
Cook sugar, chocolate cut in pieces, and milk together, stirring constantly until 
sugar is dissolved and then on] tonally to prevent burning. Cook to 



£akes and Rookies 169 



238 degrees F. (or until it forms a soft ball when tested in cold water). Add 
Crisco, vanilla and salt, and beat until it is the proper consistency to spread. 

MARSHMALLOW FROSTING 

J/2 pound marshmallows 1 egg white 

1 cup sugar J/2 teaspoon vanilla 
% cup water Few grains salt 

Cut marshmallows in pieces and melt over hot water. Cook sugar and water 
together to 240 degrees F. (or until the syrup forms a rather firm ball when 
tested in cold water). Pour the syrup slowly over the stiffly beaten egg whites 
and beat until stiff. Add melted marshmallows and beat until smooth and 
thick enough to spread. Add vanilla and salt. 

CONFECTIONERS' FROSTING 

V/2 tablespoons Crisco 3 tablespoons milk or cream 

V/2 cups confectioners' sugar % teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
Cream Crisco, add sugar gradually and cream together thoroughly. Add 
enough milk or cream to make the frosting the proper consistency to spread. 
Add salt and vanilla and mix well. 

MOCHA FROSTING 

Follow the recipe for Confectioners' Frosting, adding 2 tablespoons cocoa and 
using strong coffee in place of milk. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

Follow the recipe for Confectioners' Frosting, adding 2 tablespoons melted 
chocolate, or 3 tablespoons cocoa, to the sugar. 

ALMOND FROSTING 

Follow the recipe for Confectioners' Frosting, adding % teaspoon almond 
flavoring and using Y2 teaspoon vanilla instead of 1 teaspoon. 

ORANGE FROSTING I 

2 cups confectioners' sugar 3 tablespoons orange juice 

Grated rind of 1 orange 
Mix sugar, orange juice and rind together. Beat until smooth. 

LEMON FROSTING 

Follow the recipe for Orange Frosting I, using lemon juice and rind instead of 
the orange juice and rind. 

ORANGE FROSTING II 

1 egg Grated rind of */£ orange 

Juice of }/£ orange 4 cups confectioners' sugar 

Beat egg and add orange juice and rind. Add enough confectioners' sugar to 

make it the right consistency to spread. Beat until smooth. 



170 The cl^rt of {7 ooking and Serving 



BANANA FILLING AND FROSTING 

1 cup cream 1 cup banana pulp 

}/2 cup confectioners' sugar Y2 teaspoon vanilla 

Few grains salt 

Beat cream until stiff and add sugar. Fold in banana pulp, vanilla and salt. 

CREAM FILLING 

Y z cup sugar 1 egg 

3 tablespoons flour 1 cup milk 

}/$ teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix sugar, flour and salt. Add beaten egg. Add milk and cook over boiling 
water until thick. Cool and add vanilla. Spread between layers of cake. 

COFFEE FILLING 

Add 2 tablespoons ground coffee to the milk, and bring to the boiling point. 
Strain. Follow the recipe for Cream Filling. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING 

Follow the recipe for Cream Filling. Melt 1 square unsweetened chocolate in 
the milk and add 34 cup extra sugar. 

FRUIT FILLING 

% c up finely chopped figs }/£ cup sugar 

}/2 cup finely chopped dates Y2 cup boiling water 

J4 cup finely chopped raisins 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

Mix figs, dates and raisins. Add sugar, water and lemon juice and cook over 
hot water until thick. Spread while hot between layers of cake. 

ORANGE FILLING 

1 cup sugar 34 cup orange juice 

5 tablespoons flour Grated rind of 1 orange 

}/$ teaspoon salt 3^ cup water 

1 egg J/2 tablespoon Crisco 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Mix sugar, flour and salt together. Add the beaten egg, orange juice, rind 
and water. Cook in a double boiler or over hot water until thick. Add Crisco 
and lemon juice and mix well. Cool and spread between layers of cake. 

LEMON FILLING 

Follow the recipe for Orange Filling, using }/± cup lemon juice and grated rind 
of 1 lemon instead of the orange juice and rind. 



£akes and Rookies 171 



PINEAPPLE FILLING 

Y 2 cup sugar 1 egg 

4 tablespoons flour 1 cup pineapple, cut in pieces 

}/g teaspoon salt % cup pineapple juice 

1 tablespoon Crisco 

Mix sugar, flour and salt. Add beaten egg, pineapple and juice. Cook in a 
double boiler or over boiling water until thick, stirring constantly. Add 
Crisco and mix well. Cool and spread between layers of cake. 



FEATHERWEIGHT CAKE 

This recipe is published here in answer to a special demand for it by many of 
our old Crisco customers with whom it has been popular for many years, as an 
inexpensive but delicious plain white cake. 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 
Y2 CU P Crisco % cup milk 

2 cups flour 3 egg whites 

3^ teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream Crisco with sugar until the mixture is very light. Mix and sift flour, 
salt and baking powder, and add alternately with the milk to the first mixture. 
Fold in egg whites which have been beaten until stiff but not dry. Add vanilla. 
Turn batter into two greased layer pans. Bake in a moderate oven (350° 
F.). Ice with any desired icing. 



CHAPTER XVIII 



Pastry 



THE proof of the pudding is in the eating and the proof 
of the pastry, too. There are pastries and pastries, all 
built on the same simple foundation of flour, shortening 
and water with a dash of salt, yet varying in results all the way 
from the young bride's first soggy pie to the experienced house- 
wife's light-as-thistledown puff paste. 

Two important principles underlie pastry making. They are 
short and easily remembered. In colloquial language they are, 
"Keep the water out" and "Get the air in." In other words, 
pastry that is made with too much water is tough and hard, 
while pastry that is kneaded and prodded and crushed beneath 
a rolling pin makes a fine substitute for shoe leather. 

So when you make pastry use the smallest amount of liquid 
that will hold the ingredients together. 

Then handle it quickly and gently. There is an old ballad 
which goes: 

"Would you gain the tender creature 
Gently, softly, kindly treat her," 
and pastry is just like that. A heavy touch spoils everything. 
Air must be worked into pastry, not forced out of it, for when 
the heat of the oven is applied the air will expand and make a 
light, air-filled crust. 

Closely related to the question of liquid in pastry is the amount 
and kind of shortening used. Generally speaking, the less water 
and the more shortening, the more tender the pastry will be. 

Flakiness is somewhat dependent on the temperature of the 
shortening. If a very flaky crust is desired, the Crisco should be 
thoroughly chilled before using. Instead of melting and con- 
tributing its share of moisture to the dough, it remains in tiny 
pieces which melt only in the heat of the oven and produce the 

[172] 




-m^ 




Be sure the ingredients for pastry are very cold. Cut the Crisco into 

the flour with a knife until the flour appears mealy, that is, until the 

Crisco is cut into very fine pieces and is thoroughly mixed through 

the flour 




In making Puff Pastry, most of the Crisco, instead of being cut into 

the dough is shaped into a flat circular piece and rolled and folded 

in, in order to enclose as much air as possible. (See Puff Paste 

recipe, page 179) 



174 The c/rt of Rooking and Jerving 

much-desired "shortness." Some people find it worth while to 
keep a small can of Crisco in the refrigerator just for this purpose. 

If a short, mealy crust is preferred it is better not to chill the 
Crisco, but rather to work it into the flour in its natural soft, 
creamy state. Whether you chill it or not, you will find that the 
new super-creamed Crisco makes all pie crust more delicious and 
digestible, more tender and easier to cut. 

There are two classes of pastry — plain pastry and puff pastry. 
In the latter most of the shortening instead of being cut into 
the dough is rolled and folded in. Puff pastry is more compli- 
cated than plain pastry. It is a de luxe product which the 
novice may hesitate to undertake, but once the art of making 
it is acquired, it offers all sorts of delightful possibilities and 
adds very much to a housewife's prestige as a cook. 

The baking of pastry plays a very important part in its success. 
The colder the pastry when it goes in the oven, the flakier it will 
be. The oven should be hot enough to start it rising quickly, 
then the heat reduced for the remainder of the time in order 
that the filling may be thoroughly cooked. The upper crust of 
covered pies should be pricked to allow the steam to escape. 
The edges may be trimmed with a sharp knife and a fancy edge 
made by pinching with the fingers, or you may buy a little 
cutter that trims and makes a fancy edge at the same time. 

When you are baking the empty shell for an open pie be very 
careful not to stretch the pastry as you lay it over the pan. 
Ease it in gently and trim it off a little beyond the edge of the 
pan to allow for shrinkage. Prick the bottom and side with a 
fork so that it will not blister while baking. 



SUCCESS SECRETS 

1. Use level measurements. 

2. Sift flour before measuring. Use a reliable pastry flour 
if you cannot make good pastry with ordinary bread flour. 

3. All pastry ingredients must be very cold. 

4. Use only enough water to hold ingredients together. On 
this depends the tenderness of the pastry. 




When baking the empty shell for an open pie be careful not to stretch 

the pastry as you lay it over the pan. Ease it in gently and trim it of 

with a sharp knife a little beyond the edge of the pan 




Patty shells or tarts may be made of plain or puff pastry. Cut 

rounds of pastry and bake over the bottom of inverted pans; or line 

tart pans with the pastry and prick bottom and sides With a fork 




Qranbcrry 'J{oll (Recipe on page 191) 




(grandmother s zApplc Qroiv\ C\jst (Recipe on page 190) 




^Broivn 'Betty (Recipe on page 193) 




zAppIe Delighti (Recipe on page 190) 



17S The vfRT of Rooking and Jerving 

5. Handle pastry as little and as quickly as possible. Do not 
knead it with the hands. 

6. Roll pastry out with a light, quick motion of the rolling pin. 

7. Dust the board with flour when necessary, but use no more 
flour than is absolutely necessary to keep pastry from 
sticking. 

8. Brush the lower crust of juicy fruit pies with white of egg 
before putting in the filling. It prevents a soggy under crust. 

9. Bake pastry shells without filling) in a quick oven. Prick 
them well with a fork so crust will not blister while baking. 

10. Cool pastry shells before putting the filling in. 

11. Crisco is the best shortening for pastry because it will 
remain solid at ordinary room temperature. The fat for 
good, flaky pastry should be cut through the flour into 
very tiny particles and never allowed to melt before it 
reaches the oven. 

12. Pastry will keep in the ice box covered with wax paper 
for two or three days — or even longer in cold weather. 



PLAIN PASTRY 



2 cups flour 2 1 CU p Crisco 

5i teaspoon sal: Cold water 

Mix and sift Bour and sal:. Cut in the Crisco with a knife. Add only wa:e: 
enough to hold the ingredients together. Do not knead. Divide dough 
parts and roll out thin on a slightly floured board. Line a pie pan with one- 
half the pastry. Pinch pastry with the fingers to make a fancy edge and prick 
bottom and sides with a fork. Bake in a very hot oven (460 degrees F. > 10 to 
i: minutes. Foi st pie, line pie pan with pastry, put in a filling, cover 

with and bake as directed for pi 

If a less rich pastry is desired, use only Y* cup Crisco. 

DANISH PASTRY 

2J^ cups flour % cup Crisco 

\Yl teaspoons sal: 1 egg 

Ice water 

ift flour and salt. Cut in Crisco with a knife. Add beaten egg and 
only enough water, a few drops a: a time, to make the paste hold together. 



Pastry 179 



Chill. Break off small pieces of paste, roll out on floured board to Y% inch 
thickness and fit over inverted muffin pans. Trim to fit. Prick with a fork 
and bake in a quick oven (425 degrees F.) 10 to 15 minutes. 

FLAKY PASTRY 

2 cups flour ^ cup Crisco 

1 teaspoon salt Cold water 

Mix and sift flour and salt. Cut in 2 tablespoons of the Crisco with a knife. 
Add enough water to make a stiff dough. Roll out in an oblong piece on a 
slightly floured board and dot with bits of Crisco, using ^ the remaining quan- 
tity. Fold over ends to the center and fold again to make 4 layers. Press 
ends together and roll out. Dot again with Crisco, fold and roll. Repeat 
this process a third time. Chill thoroughly. 

This pastry may be used wherever plain pastry is called for. 

PUFF PASTE 

2 cups flour V/2 teaspoons salt 
1 cup Crisco Water 

Mix and sift flour and salt. Cut in 2 tablespoons of the Crisco with a knife. 
Add only enough water, a few drops at a time, to make the paste hold together. 
Knead the dough 5 minutes, cover and chill. Roll out to 34 inch thickness, 
keeping the paste a little wider than long and corners square. Place remaining 
Crisco, softened and shaped into a circular piece in center of one-half of paste. 
Fold other half over it, pressing edges firmly to enclose as much air as possible. 
Fold right side over and left side under the enclosed Crisco. Chill. Roll out, 
keeping the paste always rectangular in shape and rolling away from you. 
Fold ends towards center, making 3 layers. Chill. Roll out, fold again, chill 
and repeat process 4 times. (Paste is better made the day before it is baked 
and should be icy cold when put in the oven.) 

PATTY SHELLS 

Roll out Puff Paste to 34 inch thickness. Cut with a round cutter, floured. 
Remove centers from Y2 of these circles with a smaller cutter. Wet the edges 
of the whole circles and place the rings on them. Brush the tops carefully 
with slightly beaten egg mixed with 1 tablespoon water, taking care not to 
moisten the sides. Chill in ice box until paste is stiff. Bake in a hot oven 
(400 degrees F.) about 20 minutes. Bake the small centers in a quick oven 
(450 degrees F.) 10 minutes and use them as tops after the shells are filled. 

TART SHELLS 

Roll out Puff Paste to yi inch thickness. Fit over inverted pie, muffin or patty 
pans. Prick bottom and sides all over with fork. Place on a baking sheet 
and bake in a quick oven (425 degrees F.) 15 to 20 minutes. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS 

Roll out Plain Pastry to l /& inch thickness. Cut in large circles. Cut tart 
apples in thin slices, and put a small amount in the center of each circle of pastry. 



180 The <L/fRT of Rooking and Serving 



Sprinkle with sugar and a little nutmeg and dot with a small bit of Crisco. 
Moisten edge of pastry with water. Bring opposite edges to the center and 
press tightly together. Prick top to allow the steam to escape. Bake in a 
quick oven (425 degrees F.) 10 minutes. Reduce the heat to a moderate oven 
(350 degrees F.) and bake 15 to 20 minutes. 

PEACH DUMPLINGS 

Follow recipe for Apple Dumplings, using peaches instead of apples, and a few 
drops of lemon juice instead of nutmeg. 

BERRY DUMPLINGS 

Follow recipe for Apple Dumplings, using berries instead of the apples. Mix 
the berries with a little flour to thicken the syrup. Omit the nutmeg. 

APPLE PIE 

5 or 6 large tart apples 1 tablespoon Crisco 

Plain pastry J4 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup sugar Y% teaspoon cinnamon 

Wash, pare and cut apples in quarters. Remove cores and slice thin. Line 
a pan with Plain Pastry and put apples into it. Pour sugar over them and dot 
with bits of Crisco. Sprinkle with nutmeg and cinnamon. Moisten edge of 
pastry, cover with a top crust, trim and press edges together. Prick top to 
allow steam to escape. Bake in a quick oven (425 degrees F.) 10 minutes. 
Reduce heat to moderate oven (325 degrees F.) and bake 25 minutes. 

ONE CRUST APPLE PIE 

4 large tart apples 1 tablespoon Crisco 

J^ cup sugar Plain pastry 

Few grains nutmeg Whipped cream 

Wash, pare and core apples and cut in thin slices. Put them in the bottom 
of pie pan and sprinkle with sugar and nutmeg. Dot with small bits of Crisco. 
Roll Plain Pastry thin and fit over the apples. Trim off edge of the pastry and 
press with fingers or fork to make a fancy edge. Prick top to allow steam to 
escape. Bake in a quick oven (425 degrees F.) 10 minutes. Reduce heat to 
a moderate oven (325 degrees F.) and bake 20 minutes. Cool. Turn out up- 
side down on a serving dish. Cover with whipped cream, sweetened and 
flavored. 

COBBLESTONE PIE 

4 large tart apples 1 tablespoon Crisco 

Plain pastry J^ teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup sugar }/g teaspoon cinnamon 

Wash, pare and cut apples in quarters. Remove the cores. Line a pie pan 
with Plain Pastry, pinch with fingers to make a fancy edge, and fit apples into 
it to represent cobblestones. Pour the sugar over them and dot with small 



Pastry 181 



bits of Crisco. Sprinkle with nutmeg and cinnamon. Bake in a quick oven 
(425 degrees F.) 10 minutes. Reduce the heat to moderate oven (325 degrees 
F.) and bake 20 minutes, or until apples are tender. 



BLUEBERRY PIE 

23^2 CU P S blueberries 1 cup sugar 

Plain pastry 2 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Wash and pick over blueberries. Drain. Line a pie pan with Plain Pastry. 
Mix sugar, flour and lemon juice with blueberries. Turn into the pie pan and 
moisten edge of pastry with water. Cover with a top crust, trim and press 
edges together. Prick top with a fork to allow the steam to escape. Bake in 
a quick oven (425 degrees F.) 10 minutes. Reduce the heat to moderate oven 
(350 degrees F.) and bake 20 minutes. 



CHOCOLATE PIE 

Plain pastry 1 cup sugar 

2 squares unsweetened chocolate 2 tablespoons soft bread crumbs 

3 eggs }/2 cup chopped nuts 

1 cup cream 

Line a pie pan with Plain Pastry and pinch with fingers to make a fancy edge. 
Cut chocolate in pieces and melt over hot water. Beat eggs well and add 
sugar, bread crumbs and melted chocolate. Mix well. Pour into the pie pan. 
Bake in a hot oven (375 degrees F.) 20 minutes, or until filling is firm. When 
cold, sprinkle with chopped nuts. Spread with whipped cream and decorate 
with cherries and whole nuts. 



CHOCOLATE CREAM PIE 

2 tablespoons Crisco J4 teaspoon salt 

6 tablespoons flour 2 egg yolks 

\}/2 cups milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 squares unsweetened chocolate 2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar 

% cup sugar 2 egg whites 

Baked pie shell 

Melt Crisco. Add flour, milk, chocolate (cut in pieces), sugar and salt, and 
bring slowly to the boiling point, stirring constantly until thick and smooth. 
Remove from the fire and add beaten egg yolks and vanilla. Pour into a 
baked pie shell (see Plain Pastry). Cover with a meringue made by beating 
the confectioners' sugar into the stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in a moderate 
oven (325 degrees F.) 15 minutes or until a delicate brown. 

Whipped cream may be used instead of the meringue. 



182 



The cv^rt of Rooking and Serving 



CREAM PIE 



1 tablespoon Crisco 
8 tablespoons flour 

Ys cup sugar 
34 teaspoon salt 

2 egg yolks 



1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar 
2 cups milk 

2 egg whites 
Baked pie shell 



Melt Crisco. Add flour, sugar, salt, milk and beaten egg yolks and cook over 
hot water until thick, stirring constantly. Add vanilla. Pour into a baked 
pie shell (see Plain Pastry). Cover top with a meringue made by beating the 
confectioners' sugar into the stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in a moderate 
oven (325 degrees F.) 15 minutes, or until a delicate brown. 



CUSTARD PIE 

1)^2 tablespoons flour 2 cups scalded milk 

4 tablespoons sugar Y2 teaspoon vanilla 

J/g teaspoon salt Few grains nutmeg 

2 eggs Plain pastry 

Mix flour, sugar, salt and well-beaten eggs together. Add the scalded milk, 
vanilla and nutmeg. Line a pie pan with Plain Pastry and pinch with fingers 
to make a fancy edge. Pour in the custard mixture and bake in a quick oven 
(425 degrees F.) 10 minutes. Reduce heat to a slow oven (300 degrees F.) and 
bake 20 minutes, or until custard is firm. When done, a silver knife, inserted, 
will come out clean. 

COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE 

Follow recipe for Custard Pie. Add 34 cup dried cocoanut to the custard 
mixture. 

DEEP DISH HUCKLEBERRY PIE 

Wash and pick over 3 cups huckleberries. Drain. Mix with 1 cup sugar, 
2 tablespoons flour, 1 teaspoon lemon juice and a few grains salt. Put berries 
in a deep pie plate. Cover with Plain Pastry, trim and press with fingers or 
fork to make a fancy edge. Prick top with fork to allow the steam to escape. 
Bake in a quick oven (425 degrees F.) 10 minutes. Reduce heat to moderate 
oven (325 degrees F.) and bake 25 minutes. 



LEMON MERINGUE PIE 



13^ tablespoons Crisco 
8 tablespoons flour 

1 cup sugar 

14: teaspoon salt 

2 cups water 



2 egg yolks 
Juice of 1 lemon 
Grated rind of 3^ lemon 
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar 
2 egg whites 
Baked pie shell 

Melt Crisco, add flour, sugar, salt, water and beaten egg yolks. Mix well. 
Cook over hot water until thick, stirring constantly. Remove from fire, add 
lemon juice and rind and mix well. Pour into the baked pie shell. (See Plain 



•Pastry 183 



Pastry.) Cover top with a meringue made by beating the confectioners' sugar 
into the stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in a moderate oven (}25 degrees F.) 
15 minutes or until a delicate brown. 
The same tilling may be used for lemon tarts. 

MINCEMEAT 

2 pounds lean meat, cut from round 1 tablespoon cinnamon 

1 pound suet, chopped fine J 2 tablespoon mace 
5 tart apples, cut in small pieces J £ tablespoon cloves 

3 pounds raisins } - 2 tablespoon allspice 

2 pounds currants 2 teaspoons nutmeg 

3 ounces citron, cut in pieces 1 tablespoon salt 

}± ounce candied orange peel 2 pounds brown sugar 

J 4 ounce candied lemon peel 1 quart hard cider 

1 pint grape juice 

Cover meat with boiling water and simmer until tender. Let cool in the liquor. 
When cold remove meat from pot and chop tine. (Save broth for soup.) Add 
suet and apples to the meat with the raisins, currants, citron and chopped 
orange and lemon peel. Mix spices, sugar and salt, and add to the meat mix- 
ture. Add cider and grape juice, mix thoroughly, and cook slowly for 2 hours. 
Stir frequently to prevent burning. Seal in sterilized, air-tight jars. When 
ready to make pies, add more cider or grape juice, if additional liquid is needed. 
This recipe makes 8 quarts mincemeat. 

M I N C E PIE 

Line a pie pan with Plain Pastry. Fill pie pan 73 full of mincemeat and moisten 
edge of pastry. Cover with a top crust, trim and press edges together. Prick 
top crust with a fork to allow the steam to escape. Bake in a quick oven 
(425 degrees F.) 10 minutes. Reduce heat to hot oven (400 degrees F.) and 
bake 20 minutes. 

MOCK CHERRY PIE 

2 cups cranberries, coarsely chopped 1 cup sugar 

1 cup seeded raisins teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons flour 1 tablespoon Crisco 

Plain pastry 

Mix cranberries and raisins. Add flour, sugar and salt. Line a pie pan with 
plain pastry, and fill with the cranberry mixture. Dot with small bits of Crisco. 
Moisten edge of pastry, cover with a top crust, trim and press edges together. 
Prick the top with a fork to allow the steam to escape. Bake in a quick oven 
(425 degrees F.) 10 minutes. Reduce heat to hot oven (375 degrees F.) and 
bake 25 minutes. 

PEACH PIE 

Remove skins from 8 peaches and cut in thin slices. Cook with l $ cup water 
for 10 minutes. Add sugar to taste (according to the tartness of the peaches). 



184 The zAkt of Rooking and Jerving 



Line a pie pan with plain pastry and pour the filling into it. Dot with small 
bits of Crisco. Moisten edge of pastry, cover with a top crust and press 
edges together. Prick top with a fork to allow steam to escape. Bake in a 
quick oven (425 degrees F.) 10 minutes. Reduce heat to moderate oven 
(350 degrees F.) and bake 15 to 20 minutes. 

PINEAPPLE PIE 

Y2 cup flour 2 cups cooked or canned pine- 
1 cup sugar apple, cut in small pieces 

34 teaspoon salt 3 egg yolks 

% cup pineapple juice 3 tablespoons confectioners' sugar 

1 cup hot water 3 egg whites 

1 tablespoon Crisco Baked pie shell 

Mix flour, sugar and salt together. Add the pineapple juice and water and 
bring slowly to the boiling point, stirring constantly. Cook 15 minutes over 
hot water. Remove from fire, add Crisco and well-drained pineapple. Pour 
this mixture on the beaten egg yolks and mix well. Pour the filling into a 
baked pie shell (see Plain Pastry). Cover with a meringue made by beating 
the confectioners' sugar into the stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in a moderate 
oven (325 degrees F.) 15 minutes or until a delicate brown. 
This filling may be used for pineapple tarts. 

ORANGE PIE 

Follow recipe for Pineapple Filling using orange juice and pulp instead of pine- 
apple juice and pineapple, adding 1 tablespoon lemon juice just before pouring 
over the beaten egg yolks. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

Plain pastry 1*4 teaspoons cinnamon 

2 cups cooked and strained pumpkin J<4 teaspoon cloves 
1 cup milk J4 teaspoon ginger 

3 egg yolks J<4 teaspoon nutmeg 
}/2 cup sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

3 egg whites 
Line a pie pan with Plain Pastry and pinch with fingers to make a fancy edge. 
Mix the pumpkin and milk together. Add the beaten egg yolks. Add the 
sugar mixed with the cinnamon, clove, ginger, nutmeg, and salt. Mix well. 
Fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Turn into the pie pan. Bake in a 
quick oven (450 degrees F.) 10 minutes, reduce heat to hot oven (375 degrees F.) 
and bake 20 minutes longer or until the filling is firm. 

RHUBARB PIE 

3 cups rhubarb 2 tablespoons flour 

Plain pastry Y% teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs 

Peel rhubarb and cut in one-half inch pieces before measuring. Line a pie 
pan with Plain Pastry. Mix sugar, flour, salt and beaten eggs. Add to the 






Pastry 185 



rhubarb and pour into the pie pan. Moisten edge of pastry with water. 
Cover with a top crust, trim and press edges together. Prick top with a fork 
to allow steam to escape. Bake in a quick oven (425 degrees F.) 10 minutes. 
Reduce heat to a moderate oven (325 degrees F.) and bake 25 to 30 minutes. 

APRICOT TARTS 

Turn the contents of 1 can of apricots into a saucepan with Yi cup sugar and 
cook slowly until apricots are slightly transparent, about 20 minutes. Remove 
apricots and cook syrup until thick. Bake tart shells of Danish Pastry. Just 
before serving place an apricot in each baked tart shell. Pour a little of the 
syrup over it. Garnish with whipped cream. 



BANBURY TARTS 

34 cup chopped raisins 1 tablespoon flour 

34 cup chopped dates 1 egg 

34 cup chopped figs Juice of 1 lemon 

34 cup chopped nuts Grated rind of 1 lemon 

1 cup light brown sugar Plain pastry 

Mix raisins, dates, figs and nuts, sugar and flour together. Add beaten egg, 
lemon juice and rind. Mix well. Roll out Plain Pastry to 3^8 inch thickness 
and cut in pieces 3 inches square. Put a little of the mixture on each piece. 
Moisten edges with cold water, fold over diagonally and press edges together 
with tines of a fork. Bake in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 15 to 20 minutes 
or until pastry is brown. 

FRIED BANBURY TARTS 

Follow recipe for Banbury Tarts, using Plain Pastry, made with Y cup Crisco. 
Fry in deep hot Crisco 10 minutes or until brown; Drain on unglazed paper. 
Sprinkle with confectioners* sugar. Serve hot. 



BUTTERSCOTCH TARTS 

1 cup brown sugar 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

1 tablespoon Crisco 1 egg yolk 

2 tablespoons water Y2 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoon confectioners' sugar 

1 egg white 
Boil brown sugar, Crisco and water together until sugar is dissolved. Mix 
milk, cornstarch and beaten egg yolk together and add to the sugar syrup. 
Cook over hot water until thick, stirring constantly. Cool. Add vanilla. 
Pour into baked Tart Shells. Decorate tops with meringue made by beating 
the confectioners' sugar into the stiffly beaten egg white. Bake in a moderate 
oven (325 degrees F.) 15 minutes or until a delicate brown. 
This recipe fills 6 tarts. 



186 The *Art of Rooking and Serving 



GOOSEBERRY TARTS 

Wash 4 cups of gooseberries and drain. Cook slowly with 1^£ cups sugar and 
yi cup water until berries are tender, stirring constantly until sugar is melted. 
Add 1 tablespoon Crisco and 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind. Cool. Pour into 
baked Tart Shells. Garnish with whipped cream, flavored and sweetened. 

PEACH TARTS 

Remove skins and slice peaches thin. Cook in a small amount of water until 
tender. Drain liquid from peaches. To 1 cup liquid add % cup sugar and 
cook until thick. Cool. Just before serving put peaches in a baked pie shell 
(see Plain Pastry) and pour the syrup over the peaches. Cover with whipped 
cream, flavored and sweetened. 

COCOANUT DATE STRIPS 

Plain pastry 3 tablespoons brown sugar 

2 tablespoons Crisco 3 tablespoons cocoanut, shredded 

Y% teaspoon salt 34 cup chopped dates 

Make up half the recipe for Plain Pastry. Roll out on slightly floured board 
in rectangular sheet about 34 inch thick. Spread with softened Crisco and 
sprinkle with salt. Mix sugar, cocoanut and dates and sprinkle over one-half 
the pastry. Fold over the other half and cut into strips 1 inch wide, making 
them uniform in length. Bake in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 10 to 15 minutes. 
Left over pie trimmings may be used in making these dainty pastries. 

FRUIT PASTRIES 

Roll out Plain Pastry to 34 inch thickness. Cut in circles. Put a tablespoon 
of fruit filling in center of 1 piece of pastry, moisten the edge and cover with 
another circle. Press edges firmly together with tines of fork. Bake in a quick 
oven (425 degrees F.) 15 to-20 minutes. 

FRUIT FILLING 

3^ cup chopped raisins 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

34 cup chopped figs 2 tablespoons brown sugar 

34 C "P chopped nuts 2 tablespoons corn or maple syrup 

Mix the raisins, figs and nuts. Add the lemon juice, sugar and syrup and 

mix well. 

PEANUT CREAM PASTRIES 

2 tablespoons flour 1 cup milk 

34 cup sugar J/£ teaspoon vanilla 

Y% teaspoon salt Plain pastry 

1 egg Chopped peanuts 

Mix flour, sugar and salt. Add beaten egg and milk. Cook over hot water 
until thick, stirring constantly. Cool. Add vanilla. 



Wastry 1S7 



Roll out Plain Pastry to J4 inch thickness. Cut in square, round or rectan- 
gular shaped pieces. Prick with a fork and bake in a quick oven (450 degrees F.) 
12 to 15 minutes. Cool. Serve 2 as a portion, with the custard filling 
between and on top of pastries. Sprinkle thickly with chopped peanuts. 

PUMPKIN FANCHONETTES 

Cut large circles from Plain Pastry rolled to J^ inch thickness. Fit into small 
fluted pans. Pinch with fingers to make a fancy edge. Fill with pumpkin pie 
filling. Bake in quick oven (425 degrees F.) 15 to 20 minutes. Garnish before 
serving with a spoonful of whipped cream. 



CHAPTER XIX 



Desserts and Sauces 

DESSERT is the topping off of the meal, and the family's 
I hunger having been satisfied, the homemaker is justi- 
fied in giving rein to her imagination for this course. 
The recipes in this chapter are, some of them, practical; others 
are a bit of fluff. But they are all good. 

If the first part of your meal consists of rather heavy food 
you will choose one of the lighter desserts, Bavarian cream, 
pineapple sherbet or boiled custard pudding. Pie or pudding 
would be a bad aftermath for a hearty feast, although on high 
days and holidays some latitude would be permissible. For the 
ending of a light meal your children (including your husband!) 
would rejoice at brown Betty or steamed chocolate pudding. 

Fruits have become more and more popular as desserts since 
we realized their very real value as a food. Yet, having learned 
this lesson, we are apt to depend upon the fresh fruits and to 
neglect the dried fruits which are available in all places and at 
all seasons. Made into steamed puddings, whips, sherbets, 
jellies, tapioca and cornstarch combinations they lend endless 
variety to your dessert repertory. 

A sauce gives even the simplest pudding a festive air and the 
housewife who wants to be ready for the unexpected guest or 
to keep her family's appetite whetted will learn how to make 
some of the good pudding sauces. Sauces are either hard or 
liquid, the latter offering many varieties with a basis of fruit 
juices, egg, cornstarch, chocolate, or caramel. 

Crisco may be used successfully in any of these and makes 
a rich, delicious sauce; and the nicest part about it is that you 
can make a large enough quantity to satisfy the sweetest tooth 
in your household without going bankrupt for butter. 

[188] 



Desserts and ^auces 189 

SUCCESS SECRETS 

1. Choose a light dessert to serve after a hearty meal. 

2. Serve cold desserts thoroughly chilled; hot desserts very hot. 

3. Unmold a gelatine dessert before serving. To do so 
loosen the edge slightly with a pointed knife, then turn 
upside down on the plate or platter on which it is to be 
served. 

4. Don't have gelatine mixtures too stiff. When too much 
gelatine is used the dessert will be tough and rubbery. 

5. Cook custards over hot water, stirring constantly. If 
custard separates, remove it from the fire and beat with 
an egg beater to "bring it back" again. 

6. Do not fill the molds for steamed puddings more than 
three-quarters full as the mixture will rise in the can. 

7. Keep the water boiling in the vessels in which you steam 
puddings. If more water is needed during the cooking 
add boiling water. 

8. Vary the same desserts by garnishing with whipped cream, 
marshmallows or chopped nuts, or serving with a differ- 
ent sauce. 



COTTAGE PUDDING 

J4 cup Crisco 3 teaspoons baking powder 

% cup sugar Y2 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs % cup milk 
234 cups flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream Crisco, sugar and eggs together. Mix and sift flour, baking powder and 
salt and add alternately with the milk to the first mixture. Add vanilla and 
beat thoroughly. Pour into a greased pan, having batter 1 inch deep in pan. 
Bake in a hot oven (400 degrees F.) 20 to 25 minutes. Cut in squares and 
serve with Lemon or Custard Sauce. This batter may also be baked in muffin 
pans and served as individual portions. 

CHOCOLATE COTTAGE PUDDING 

Follow recipe for Cottage Pudding. Add lJ/£ squares melted, unsweetened 
chocolate, or V$ cup cocoa mixed to a smooth paste with hot water. 



190 The ^rt of Rooking and Serving 



FRUIT COTTAGE PUDDING 

Follow recipe for Cottage Pudding. Add % cup berries or chopped fruit, well 
drained and mixed with a little of the flour. 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE 

Follow recipe for Cottage Pudding. Arrange thinly sliced apples in rows on 
top of batter. Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and dot with small bits of 
Crisco. Bake in a moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 45 minutes or until apples 
are tender. 

APPLE DELIGHTS 

2 cups flour 34 CU P Crisco 

\}/2 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup milk 

3^ teaspoon salt 1 egg 

6 soft ripe apples 
Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt. Cut in Crisco with a knife. Add 
milk and beaten egg and mix well. Drop tablespoons of batter into well 
greased muffin pans. Peel apples, cut in halves and take out cores. Put on 
top of batter, cut side up, and fill the holes with sugar. Bake in a hot oven 
(400 degrees F.) 25 minutes or until apples are tender. Serve hot with sweet- 
ened whipped cream, dusted with cinnamon. 
This recipe makes 12 delights. 

GRANDMOTHER'S APPLE CROW'S NEST 

4 medium sized tart apples 34 teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour 34 cup sugar 

2 teaspoons baking powder 3 tablespoons Crisco 
1J4 teaspoons cinnamon 34 CU P milk: (about) 

Slice apples into a greased pie pan and dot with bits of Crisco. Sprinkle with 
sugar and cinnamon. Mix flour, baking powder, salt and sugar and sift twice. 
Cut in Crisco with a knife. Add enough milk to make a soft dough. Spread 
over apples. Bake in hot oven (400 degrees F.) 25 minutes or until apples are 
tender. Turn out on a plate, upside down. Mix 3^ cup sugar and 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon and stir into apples with a fork. Serve hot with whipped cream* 
Dust over cream with a little cinnamon and a few finely chopped nuts. 

ROLY-POLY PUDDING 

2 cups flour 5 tart apples, sliced 

4 teaspoons baking powder 3^ teaspoon cinnamon 
1 teaspoon salt 3^ teaspoon nutmeg 

5 tablespoons Crisco 3^ cup sugar 

3^ cup milk 
Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt. Rub in 3 tablespoons Crisco with 
finger tips. Add milk and mix to a soft dough. Turn out on floured board 
and pat into oblong shape. Spread with remaining 2 tablespoons softened 
Crisco. Cover with a layer of thinly sliced apples and sprinkle with cinnamon, 



Desserts and Jauces 191 



nutmeg and sugar. Roll lengthwise like jelly roll, and bake in a moderate 
oven (350 degrees F.) 30 to 40 minutes. Cut in slices and serve hot with 
Lemon Sauce. 

CRANBERRY ROLL 

23^ cups flour 2 tablespoons Crisco 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt Y2 to % cup milk 

Y cup sugar 2 cups whole cranberries 

Mix and sift flour, baking powder, salt and sugar. Cut in Crisco with a knife. 
Add beaten egg and milk enough to make a rather soft dough. Roll out on 
slightly floured board to Y2 inch thickness. Spread surface with Crisco and 
cover with cranberries. Roll up, handling it lightly. Place in center of a well 
greased pan. Brush top and sides of the roll with melted Crisco. Put in a 
quick oven (450 degrees F.); when it begins to brown reduce heat to moderate 
oven (350 degrees F.) and bake about 45 minutes longer. Cut in slices and 
serve with Lemon Sauce or Hard Sauce. 

PEACH BASKET TURNOVER 

2 egg yolks 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup sugar Y2 teaspoon salt 

3^3 cup hot water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 egg whites 1 cup brown sugar 

1 cup flour 2 tablespoons Crisco 

1 can sliced peaches, drained 
Beat egg yolks and Y2 cup sugar together until light. Add hot water and re- 
maining sugar and beat 5 minutes. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Mix 
and sift flour, baking powder and Y teaspoon salt. Add to first mixture and 
mix well. Add vanilla. Cream brown sugar and Crisco, add peaches and 34 
teaspoon salt, and put in a shallow greased baking pan. Pour cake batter 
over the mixture and bake in hot oven (400 degrees F.) 45 minutes. Turn out 
on a platter and serve with the fruit juice and whipped cream. 

BREAD PUDDING 

2 eggs % cup sugar 
\Y cups soft bread crumbs Y teaspoon salt 

3 cups scalded milk Y teaspoon vanilla 

1 tablespoon Crisco Y2 cup nuts, cut in pieces 

Beat eggs, add bread crumbs, milk, Crisco, sugar and salt and mix well. Add 
vanilla and nuts. Pour into a greased baking pan and bake in a moderate 
oven (325 degrees F.) 45 minutes or until firm. Serve hot or cold with whipped 
cream. 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING 

Follow recipe for Bread Pudding and add 3 squares melted unsweetened choco- 
late. Serve with whipped cream. 



192 The 5/rt of Rooking and Jerving 



BLUEBERRY PUDDING 

34 cup Crisco 2 teaspoons baking powder 

% cup sugar M teaspoon salt 

1 egg }/2 cup milk 

234 cups flour 1 cup blueberries or huckleberries 

Cream Crisco, sugar and egg together. Mix and sift flour, baking powder and 
salt. Reserve 34 cup to flour blueberries. Add the remainder alternately with 
milk to the first mixture. Beat thoroughly. Stir in the blueberries. Pour 
into a greased shallow pan and bake in moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 40 to 45 
minutes. Cut in squares and serve hot with Lemon Sauce. 

RICE PUDDING 

3 tablespoons rice 34 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons sugar Few grains nutmeg 

2 tablespoons Crisco 4 cups milk 

Wash and drain rice. Add sugar, Crisco, salt and nutmeg and stir into the 
milk. Put into a pudding dish and bake in a slow oven (275 degrees F.) 
2 hours. Stir occasionally during the first hour of cooking. Serve hot or cold. 
3^2 cup raisins may be added to this recipe. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING 

34 cup cornmeal 3^ teaspoon salt 

5 cups milk 3^8 teaspoon ginger 

34 cup molasses }/£ teaspoon cinnamon 

1 tablespoon Crisco 
Mix cornmeal with 1 cup milk. Scald the remaining milk in a double boiler, 
or over hot water. Add cornmeal, molasses, salt, ginger, cinnamon and Crisco 
and mix well. Pour into a greased baking dish and cook in a slow oven (275 
degrees F.) 2 hours. Serve with cream or Custard Sauce. 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

1 tablespoon Crisco 13^2 teaspoons baking powder 

% cup sugar 3^ teaspoon salt 

1 egg }/2 cup milk 

13^ cups flour 2 squares unsweetened chocolate 

Cream Crisco, sugar and egg together. Mix and sift flour, baking powder and 
salt and add alternately with the milk to the first mixture. Beat thoroughly. 
Add melted chocolate and mix well. Fill greased pudding mold % full, cover 
tightly and steam 1 hour. Serve with whipped cream. 

STEAMED MOLASSES PUDDING 

1 egg 13^ cups flour 

% cup molasses Y2 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon soda 1 cup raisins 

3^ cup water 2 tablespoons melted Crisco 

Beat egg and add molasses. Dissolve soda in water and stir into the egg 
mixture. Sift flour and salt, add and beat thoroughly. Dredge raisins with 



Desserts and Jauces 193 



flour and stir in lightly. Add Crisco. Fill greased pudding mold % full, 
cover tightly and steam 134 hours. Serve with hot Foamy Sauce. 

STEAMED FIG PUDDING 

}/$ cup Crisco 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Yz cup sugar 3^ teaspoon salt 

2 cups bread crumbs }/± teaspoon cinnamon 
134 cups scalded milk 34 teaspoon clove 

3 eggs 34 teaspoon nutmeg 
J4 cup flour Y2 CU P chopped figs 

3^ cup Sultana raisins 
Cream Crisco and sugar, add bread crumbs and scalded milk. Mix well. 
Cool. Add beaten eggs. Sift flour, baking powder, salt and spices together, 
and mix w T ith figs and raisins. Add to the first mixture and stir well. Fill 
greased pudding mold % full. Cover tightly and steam 3 hours. Serve with 
Custard Sauce. 

BROWN BETTY 

3 cups dried bread crumbs }/$ teaspoon nutmeg 

3 cups sliced tart apples % teaspoon cinnamon 

3^ cup brown sugar Y2 teaspoon salt 

3^ cup white sugar 3 tablespoons Crisco 

}/2 cup water 
Put a layer of bread crumbs in the bottom of a greased baking dish and cover 
with a layer of apples. Mix sugar with nutmeg, cinnamon and salt. Sprinkle 
apples with part of the sugar mixture and dot with small bits of Crisco. Repeat 
the process until all the ingredients are used, having a layer of crumbs on top. 
Dot with Crisco. Pour the water over it and bake in moderate oven (350 
degrees F.) 45 to 50 minutes. Serve with Foamy Sauce. 

MOCK PLUM PUDDING 

% teaspoon soda 2 tablespoons chopped citron 

1 cup grated raw potato 2 tablespoons chopped orange peel 

1 cup grated raw carrot 2 tablespoons melted Crisco 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

}/2 cup chopped nuts 3^ teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup raisins Few grains clove 

Stir soda into the raw potato and mix well. Add carrot, sugar, flour, nuts, 
raisins, citron, orange peel, Crisco, salt and spices. Mix thoroughly. Fill 
greased mold % full. Cover tightly and steam 2 hours. Serve with Marsh- 
mallow Sauce. 

BOILED CUSTARD 

2 cups rich milk 3 tablespoons sugar 
1 tablespoon Crisco Y2 teaspoon vanilla 

3 egg yolks Few grains salt 

Scald the milk and Crisco in double boiler or over hot water. Beat egg yolks 
and sugar together until light. Pour scalded milk on the eggs and sugar and 



194 The ^Art of Rooking and Serving 



stir until well mixed. Return to boiler; cook until custard coats the spoon, 
stirring constantly. Remove at once from fire. Cool; add vanilla and salt. 
Custard must be very carefully cooked. If not cooked enough it will be too 
thin, and if cooked too much it will separate. 

MACAROON CUSTARD 

Follow the recipe for Boiled Custard. Add 34 pound crumbled macaroons just 
before removing from the fire. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

BAKED CUSTARD 

2 eggs 2 cups scalded milk 

2 tablespoons sugar 3^ teaspoon vanilla 
Few grains salt Few grains nutmeg 

Beat eggs, add sugar and salt. Add scalded milk, vanilla, and nutmeg. Mix 
well. Pour into custard cups. Set cups in pan of hot water and bake in a 
slow oven (300 degrees F.) 25 minutes. Test with silver knife. When it is 
done, the custard will not stick to the knife. 

COCOANUT CUSTARD 

Follow the recipe for Baked Custard, allowing 1 teaspoon of cocoanut to each 
cup custard. 

PLUM PUDDING 

34 cup Crisco 3 eggs 

1 cup sugar % cup scalded milk 

3 cups soft bread crumbs 2 tablespoons chopped orange peel 
1 teaspoon baking powder 2 tablespoons chopped lemon peel 
1 teaspoon salt 13^ cups raisins 

34 teaspoon nutmeg 34 CU P currants 

3^2 teaspoon cinnamon 34 CU P chopped figs 

34 teaspoon mace J^ cup nuts, cut in pieces 

34 teaspoon clove 3^ CU P g ra P e juice 

Cream Crisco and sugar together, add bread crumbs, baking powder, salt 
and spices. Add beaten eggs and mix thoroughly. Add scalded milk. Add 
orange and lemon peel, raisins, currants, figs, nuts and grape juice to the first 
mixture, and beat thoroughly. Fill greased pudding mold % full, cover tightly 
and steam for 4 hours. Serve with Orange or Hard Sauce. 

VANILLA BLANC MANGE 

3^ cup sugar 3 cups scalded milk 

3 tablespoons cornstarch 2 egg yolks 

3 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 

34 teaspoon salt 2 egg whites 

Mix sugar, cornstarch, flour and salt together. Add milk and mix well. Cook 
over boiling water until thick, stirring constantly. Cover and cook 15 minutes 
longer. Remove from fire, pour on the beaten egg yolks and cook 2 minutes 



Desserts and ^auces 195 



longer over boiling water, stirring constantly. Add vanilla and fold in stiffly 
beaten egg whites. Pour into a large mold or individual molds which have 
been dipped in cold water. Chill. Serve with fresh fruit or Chocolate Sauce. 

CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE 

Follow recipe for Vanilla Blanc Mange. Add \Y squares melted unsweetened 
chocolate with the milk. Serve with whipped cream. 

LEMON JELLY 

23^ tablespoons gelatine 2 cups boiling water 

Y2 cup cold water Yl cup lemon juice 

1 cup sugar Grated rind of Yi lemon 

Soak gelatine in cold water 5 minutes. Add sugar to gelatine and pour the 
boiling water on it, stirring until dissolved. Add lemon juice and rind and mix 
well. Strain through cheesecloth into a mold. Chill thoroughly. Serve plain 
or with Custard Sauce. 

PLAIN BAVARIAN CREAM 

23^ tablespoons gelatine Few grains salt 

Yi cup cold milk \Y cups scalded milk 

3 egg yolks 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Y cup sugar Y pint cream, whipped 

Soak gelatine in the cold milk 5 minutes. Beat egg yolks, sugar and salt 
together until light. Add scalded milk and stir until well mixed. Cook in 
double boiler or over hot water, stirring constantly, until mixture coats the 
spoon. Add gelatine and stir until dissolved. Set in pan of cold water and 
stir until mixture begins to thicken. Add vanilla and fold in whipped cream. 
Turn into a mold which has been dipped in cold water. Chill until firm. 

SPANISH CREAM 

Follow the recipe for Bavarian Cream, folding in the stiffly beaten whites of 
three eggs instead of whipped cream. 

LEMON ICE 

4 cups water Juice of 4 lemons 
2 l /i cups sugar Juice of 1 orange 

Grated rind of 1 lemon 
Boil water and sugar together 10 minutes. Strain the lemon and orange juice 
into the sugar syrup. Add grated rind and mix well. Cool. Turn into freezer 
and freeze, using 1 part rock salt to 5 parts finely cracked ice. Turn freezer 
constantly until mixture stiffens. Remove dasher from freezer and repack, 
using 1 part salt and 3 parts ice. 

ORANGE ICE 

4 cups water Juice 6 oranges 

2 cups sugar Juice 1 lemon 

Grated rind of 1 orange 
Boil water and sugar together 10 minutes. Strain the orange and lemon 
.mice into the syrup. Add grated rind and mix well. Cool. Turn into fi 



196 The syfRT of Rooking and Serving 



and freeze, using 1 part rock salt to 5 parts finely cracked ice. Turn freezer 
constantly until mixture stiffens. Remove dasher from freezer and repack, 
using 1 part salt and 3 parts ice. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET 

4 cups water 2 cups shredded pineapple 

13^ cups sugar Juice of 1 lemon 

1 egg white 
Boil water and sugar together 10 minutes. Drain pineapple and add with the 
lemon juice. Cool. Turn into a freezer and freeze, using 1 part rock salt to 
5 parts finely cracked ice. When partly frozen fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. 
Turn freezer constantly until mixture stiffens. Remove dasher and repack, 
"sing 1 part salt and 3 parts ice. If canned pineapple is used, only half the 
amount of sugar will be needed. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM 

4 cups rich milk Few grains salt 
3 eggs 1 cup sugar 

1 tablespoon vanilla 
Scald milk in a double boiler or over hot water. Beat eggs, salt and sugar 
together until light. Pour the scalded milk over them and stir until well 
mixed. Return to boiler and cook until the mixture coats the spoon, stirring 
constantly. Remove from fire and cool. Add vanilla. Turn into a freezer 
and freeze, using 1 part rock salt to 8 parts finely cracked ice. Turn freezer 
constantly until mixture stiffens. Remove dasher and repack, using 1 part 
salt and 3 parts ice. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

Follow recipe for Vanilla Ice Cream, adding 3 squares melted unsweetened 
chocolate and Y2 CU P extra sugar with the scalded milk. 

FRENCH ICE CREAM 

2 cups milk 1 cup sugar 

5 egg yolks 2 cups cream 

Few grains salt 1 tablespoon vanilla 

Scald the milk in a double boiler or over hot water. Beat egg yolks, salt and 
sugar together until light. Pour the scalded milk on them and stir until 
well mixed. Return to boiler and cook until the mixture coats the spoon, stir- 
ring constantly. Remove from fire, add cream and stir well. Cool. Add vanilla. 
Turn into a freezer and freeze, using 1 part rock salt to 8 parts finely cracked 
ice. Turn freezer constantly until mixture stiffens. Remove dasher and 
repack, using 1 part salt and 3 parts ice. Serve with chocolate sauce. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM 

Follow recipe for French Ice Cream, adding % CU P strong black coffee. 



Desserts and Jauces 197 



CUSTARD SAUCE 

1 cup milk 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 egg yolks 3^8 teaspoon salt 

34 teaspoon vanilla 
Scald milk in double boiler or over hot water. Beat yolks, sugar and salt 
together until light, and pour scalded milk on them. Return to boiler and cook 
until mixture coats the spoon, stirring constantly. Chill and add vanilla. 

To make a fluffy sauce, reserve 1 egg white, beat stiff and add to the custard 
just before taking from fire. 

COCOANUT SAUCE 

Follow recipe for Custard Sauce, adding 3^2 cup shredded cocoanut. 

FOAMY SAUCE 

34 cup sugar 1 egg yolk 

2 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons sherry flavoring 

Y2 teaspoon salt Few grains nutmeg 

1 cup milk 2 egg whites 
Mix sugar, flour and salt together. Add milk and beaten egg yolk and cook 

over hot water until thick. Add flavoring and nutmeg. Fold in the stiffly 
beaten egg whites. 

LEMON SAUCE 

}/2 cup sugar 1 cup boiling water 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 tablespoons Crisco 

Y% teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

1 egg yolk 
Mix sugar, cornstarch and salt. Add boiling water slowly, stirring constantly. 
Boil 5 minutes. Take from the fire and add Crisco, lemon juice and beaten 
egg yolk. 

ORANGE SAUCE 

Follow recipe for Lemon Sauce, substituting 1 cup orange juice for the water. 

COFFEE SAUCE 

Follow recipe for Lemon Sauce, substituting 1 cup hot coffee for water and 
omitting lemon juice. Add 34 teaspoon vanilla. 

HOT CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

134 cups milk 1 cup powdered sugar 

2 squares unsweetened chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 
Y2 tablespoon Crisco }/% teaspoon salt 

Cook milk, chocolate and Crisco over a slow fire and stir until chocolate melts 
and the mixture is thick. Add sugar and cook until it thickens again, stirring 
constantly. Add vanilla and salt. 



198 The zAkt of Rooking and Serving 



HOT MARSHMALLOW SAUCE 

1 cup sugar }± pound marshmallows 

Yl cup water 1 tablespoon sherry flavoring 

J 9 teaspoon vanilla 

Put sugar and water in a saucepan. Place over the fire and stir until sugar is 
dissolved. Cook without stirring until the sugar will spin a thread when 
dropped from the tip of a spoon (23$ degrees F.). Add marshmallows which 
have been softened in the oven, but not browned. Beat until sauce is smooth. 
Add flavoring. Keep hot over water. If too thick, thin with a few drops of 
boiling water. 



CHAPTER XX 



Candy 



AMERICANS spend something over seven dollars per 
L\ capita each year for candies and confections, and the 
A \ candy shops increase and flourish. The skilled candy- 
maker consequently has a real asset at her command, whether 
she uses it commercially or merely to give pleasure to her 
family and friends. 

Home-made candy does not mean amateur candy. If one 
takes the trouble to master a few of the bed-rock rules of candy- 
making, luck gives way to assured success. 

A thermometer is essential if you go in for candymaking 
on any scale, because cooking to just the right temperature is 
the first principle of success. 

Fudge with its variations is by all odds the most popular of 
home-made candies and anyone can acquire the simple art of 
making it. Just be careful not to overcook it and you will have 
a smooth, creamy candy, instead of the grainy kind from which 
we have all suffered. If a little corn syrup is added — about 
two tablespoons to two cups of sugar — an unusually nice 
texture will result and the fudge will keep fresh longer. 

Let the candy cool before beating it, because beating it when 
it is very hot also tends to make it grainy. 

Crisco used in candy gives delightful results and you can 
use large quantities without extravagance. A little salt should 
be added to the candy. 

Home-made confections always make a much-appreciated 
gift. There are any number of varieties such as caramels, nut 
brittles and even fudge and penuchi which can be made in 
advance of the last of the Christmas rush. 

[199] 




A thermometer is essential if you go in for candyrjiaking, because 
cooking to just the right temperature is the first principle of success 



SUCCESS SECRETS 



1. Cook candy in a perfectly smooth saucepan large enough 
to allow it to "boil up." 

2. Cook creamy candies without stirring after the sugar has 
dissolved. 

3. W ash down sugar crystals from side of pan with cheese- 
cloth wrapped on a fork and dipped in cold water. 

4. Cool creamy candies before beginning to beat. This will 
prevent sugaring. 

5. For taffies and brittles stir only enough to keep candy 
from burning. 

6. Use a candy thermometer, if possible; if not, drop a little 
of the mixture into cold water and test as follows: 

Soft Ball 236 to 240 degrees F. 

Firm Ball 242 to 248 degrees F. 

[200] 



Candy 201 

Hard Ball 250 to 265 degrees F. 

Brittle 270 to 290 degrees F. 

Very Brittle 295 to 310 degrees F. 

7. Fudge and Penuchi kept in tightly covered cans will 
remain fresh for two weeks. 

8. Wrap caramels as soon as they are cold. 

9. Heat nuts before using to give them a sweet flavor. 

10. Break nuts for candy instead of chopping them. When 
chopped the fine particles cloud the candy. 



CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

2 cups sugar 3 squares unsweetened chocolate 

% cup milk 2 tablespoons Crisco 

2 tablespoons corn syrup 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Put sugar, milk, syrup and chocolate, cut in small pieces, into a saucepan and 
stir until sugar is dissolved. Cook slowly until the temperature is 236 degrees 
F., or until mixture forms a soft ball when tested in cold water. Remove 
from fire and add Crisco. When lukewarm, add vanilla and beat until thick. 
Pour into greased shallow pan. When cold cut in squares. 

CHOCOLATE MARSHMALLOW FUDGE 

Double the recipe for Chocolate Fudge. Pour one-half the fudge into a greased 
square pan and lay marshmallows on it. Pour the other half over them. 
When cool cut in squares. 

CHOCOLATE NUT FUDGE 

Follow recipe for Chocolate Fudge. Just before pouring into pan add % cup 
nuts, broken in pieces, and mix well. 

CHOCOLATE COCOANUT FUDGE 

Follow recipe for Chocolate Fudge. Just before pouring into pan add % cup 
dried cocoanut. 

PENfCHI 

2 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

^2 cup evaporated milk }/g teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons Crisco 1 cup nuts, broken in pieces 

Cook tugar and milk together in a saucepan, stirring until the sugar is dissolved. 
Continue to cqok slowly, stirring constantly until 2 is reached, 



202 The i/rt of Rooking and Serving 



or until mixture forms a soft ball when tested in cold water. Add Crisco. Cool 
slightly, add vanilla, salt and nuts and beat until creamy. Pour into a greased 
pan and when cold cut in squares. 

MEXICAN KISSES 

Follow recipe for Penuchi, substituting l o cup candied cherries, cut in pieces, 
for 1 o cup of the nuts. Continue beating until it will hold its shape. Drop by 
teaspoons on waxed paper. 

SANDWICH PENUCHI 

Follow recipes for Fudge and Penuchi. Pour fudge into a greased shallow pan. 
Spread with a layer of Penuchi. Cool and cut in squares. 

VANILLA CAR A MELS 

2 cups sugar l l o cups milk 
1 cup brown sugar J^ cup Crisco 

1 cup light corn syrup 2 4 teaspoon salt 

1 cup condensed milk 13^ teaspoons vanilla 

Cook sugar, corn syrup, condensed milk and milk together in a saucepan, 
stirring constantly until the sugar is dissolved. Cook slowly, stirring occa- 
sionally to prevent burning, until the temperature is 248 degrees F., or until 
mixture forms a firm ball when tested in cold water. Remove from fire, add 
Crisco, salt and vanilla and mix well. Pour into a greased pan. When cold 
remove from pan, cut in cubes and wrap each caramel in waxed paper. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

Follow recipe for Vanilla Caramels, cooking 5 squares unsweetened chocolate, 
cut in pieces, with the other ingredients. 

MAPLE NUT BRITTLE 

2 cups nuts, broken in pieces ?4 cup water 

1 ! 2 cups maple sugar, cut in pieces 2 tablespoons Crisco 

1 : 2 cups light corn syrup }i teaspoon salt 

Brown nuts slightly in the oven. Cook sugar, syrup, and water together in a 
saucepan, stirring until the sugar is dissolved. Add Crisco. Continue cooking 
without stirring until the temperature is 290 degrees F., or until syrup becomes 
brittle when tested in cold water. Add nuts and pour on an inverted greased 
pan in a very thin sheet. Do not scrape the bottom and sides of the saucepan. 
Break into pieces. 

COCO AN UT BRITTLE 

Follow recipe for Maple Nut Brittle. Add 2 cups dried cocoanut instead of 
the nuts. 



£>NDY 203 

MOLASSES MINT TAFFY 

2 cups molasses }/g teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons vinegar Y2 teaspoon soda 

\ x /l tablespoons Crisco 7 drops oil of peppermint 

Cook molasses and vinegar in a saucepan slowly, stirring constantly, until the 
temperature is 270 degrees F., or until syrup becomes brittle when tested in 
cold water. Remove from fire and add Crisco, salt and soda. Stir until 
mixture ceases to foam. Pour into a greased pan. When cool enough to pull 
pour the peppermint in the center of the candy and draw the corners toward 
the center. Remove from pan and pull until light in color and firm. Roll 
into a thin rope. Cut in pieces and wrap in waxed paper. 

POPCORN BALLS 

1J4 cups sugar % cup water 

134 cups brown sugar 1 tablespoon Crisco 

Y2 CU P light corn syrup 33^2 Quarts popped corn 

1J4 teaspoons salt 
Put sugar, brown sugar, syrup and water in a saucepan, stirring until sugar is 
dissolved. Add Crisco and continue cooking without stirring until the tem- 
perature 240 degrees F. is reached, or until mixture forms a soft ball when 
tested in cold water. Put popped corn in a large bowl and sprinkle with salt. 
Pour the hot syrup over it and mix thoroughly. Shape in small balls, wrap in 
wax paper. 

SALTED ALMONDS 

Blanch Y2 pound shelled almonds in boiling water and remove skins. Put 1 
teaspoon Crisco in a pie pan and place in a hot oven (375 degrees F.). When it 
is melted put the almonds into it and stir until well coated with Crisco. Cook 
until a delicate brown, stirring often so that they may brown evenly without 
burning. Drain on unglazed paper and sprinkle with salt. Do not enclose in 
box or tin until perfectly cold. 

Almonds may also be browned in deep Crisco, drained and salted. 



CHAPTER XXI 



Large Quantity Cooking 

IT OFTEN happens that it is the busiest housewife who is 
called on most frequently for "outside" duties such as taking 
charge of church suppers, class luncheons or the men's club 
dinner. 

A difficulty likely to confront her at the outset is the lack 
of adequate oven and stove-top space for cooking for fifty or 
more persons. So she must plan the menu with this in mind. 
Questions like marketing, serving, and collecting china, silver 
and linen for such a hungry mob fade into insignificance before 
the actual cooking! 

If, then, lack of equipment or cooking space is a factor she 
must plan a meal for which part of the food may be prepared 
beforehand. Such things as pies, cakes and doughnuts may be 
made outside and brought in at serving-time. The menu 
should consist of at least one hot dish and a hot beverage, and 
if it is possible to bake hot biscuit or rolls, they will cause 
blessings to be showered on your head. The rest of the food 
may be cold — salads, cold meats, relishes and desserts, of which 
last ice cream and pie know no rivals. 

The planning and ordering for a large number of people 
should be done as far ahead as practicable so that materials 
will be on hand and any gaps filled before the last minute. If 
roasts or hams are to be served they may be partly cooked the 
day before, the hams boiled and prepared with spices and sugar 
for a final baking. Beans may always be baked the previous 
day and reheated with no loss of flavor or delicacy. Macaroni 
dishes may be made ready for the oven, and vegetables may be 
prepared for boiling early in the day and allowed to soak in 
cold water. The ingredients for salad may be prepared and 
left in the ice box to chill. 

[204] 



^arge Quantity Rooking 

Although most recipes may be doubled with very satisfactory 
results it is not always possible to increase them successfully 
in any larger proportion than that. There are many scientific 
reasons for this and it is well to realize that a fresh start must 
be made with a reliable recipe which has been worked out on a 
larger scale. 

In large quantity cooking the ingredients should be of the 
best grade or the finished product will tell the tale. Crisco is 
an invaluable ally in the church or club kitchen. It may be 
bought in large cans and kept over from one affair to the next 
without danger of becoming rancid. 



SUCCESS SECRETS 

1. Plan menus with reference to the equipment available 
and the amount of stove space on which to cook. 

2. Do as much preparation as possible the day before. 

5. Use large shallow pans rather than deep ones for baking 
and so hasten the proces 

4. Bake cakes in large sheets — allow them to cool in the pan, 
frost, and cut in squares for serving. 

5. Keep a new clothes boiler for making coffee. To serve, 
dip out with large pitcher and fill cups before putting 
them on the saucers. 



VEGETABLE SOUP 

5 gallons water 2 cups rice 

3 quarts cooked or canned tomatoes 6 onions 

34 cup salt _ quarts eel 

3 teaspoons pepper 3 quarts potatoes 

2 bay leaves 1 quart carrots 

2 cups Crisco 1 pint turnips 

Put water and tomatoes in a large soup kettle. Add seasonings, Crisco and 
rice. Chop vegetables fine, add and cook slowly 2 hours. Add more seasoning 
if necessary. Do not strain. 

Any meat or vegetable stock may be used instead of part of the water. 

This recipe makes about 50 to 60 servings. 



206 



The c^rt of Rooking and Serving 



MASHED POTATOES 



15 pounds potatoes 
1J^ quarts milk (scalded) 



34 cup salt 

}/$ cup melted Crisco 



Wash and pare potatoes and boil or steam until tender. Mash until free 
from lumps and add milk, salt and Crisco. Beat until light. Serve imme- 
diately. 
This recipe makes about 50 servings. 



BAKED BEANS 



4 quarts pea beans 
34 cup soda 

1 cup molasses 
}/2 cup sugar 



2 teaspoons mustard 
2 teaspoons paprika 
6 tablespoons salt 
2 cups Crisco 
3 quarts hot water 



Soak beans over night. Drain. Cover with water, add soda and cook slowly 
until almost tender. Drain. Add molasses, sugar, mustard, paprika, salt, 
Crisco and hot water. Bake in shallow pans in a moderate oven (325 degrees 
F.) 1 to Y/2 hours. 
This recipe makes about 75 servings. 



WHITE SAUCE 

2 cups Crisco 1 teaspoon pepper 

3 cups flour 1 teaspoon paprika 
34 cup salt 5 quarts milk 

1 quart water 

Melt Crisco and add flour, salt, pepper and paprika. Mix well. Scald milk 
and water. Add a little at a time to the flour mixture, stirring constantly to 
prevent lumping. Cook, stirring until thick and smooth. 
This recipe makes 6 quarts of sauce. 



MACARONI AND CHEESE 



5 pounds macaroni 
2 gallons water 
34 cup salt 



6 quarts thin white sauce 
2 pounds cheese, cut in small pieces 
1 quart soft bread crumbs 
]/2 cup Crisco 

Break macaroni in pieces. Cook in boiling salted water until tender. Drain. 
Add white sauce and cheese to the macaroni. Put in greased shallow baking 
pans. Cover with crumbs and dot with small bits of Crisco. Bake in 
moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 50 to 60 minutes. 
This recipe makes about 50 servings. 



£arge Quantity Rooking 



207 



CHICKEN A LA KING 



6 quarts cooked chicken* 

1 small can pimento, chopped 

2 tablespoons salt 
2 teaspoons pepper 



4 tablespoons parsley, chopped 

1 pound mushrooms 

2 tablespoons Crisco 

3 quarts white sauce 



Cut chicken in cubes before measuring. Add pimento, salt, pepper and pars- 
ley. Peel mushrooms, slice thin and cook in Crisco 10 minutes. Add them 
with the white sauce to the chicken mixture. Heat over boiling water. Serve 
on toast or in patty shells. 

This recipe makes about 50 servings. 

*(4 or 5 six pound fowls will give 6 quarts cooked meat.) 



CHICKEN SALAD 



4 quarts cooked chicken, cut in small pieces 
4 quarts celery, cut in small pieces 
1 tablespoon salt 



1 teaspoon pepper 

2 quarts salad dressing 
8 hard cooked eggs 



Mix chicken, celery, salt and pepper. Moisten with French Dressing and let 
stand several hours. Mix with Boiled Salad Dressing or Mayonnaise Dressing. 
Serve on lettuce leaves and garnish with slices of hard cooked eggs. 
This recipe makes about 50 servings. 

POTATO SALAD 

8 quarts potatoes 2 tablespoons salt 

13^ quarts celery, cut in small pieces 3^ CU P chopped parsley 

Wash and pare potatoes and cut in cubes. Cook in boiling salted water until 
tender. Drain and cool. Add celery, salt and parsley. Moisten with French 
Dressing and let stand several hours. Place on lettuce leaves and garnish with 
Mayonnaise Dressing and stuffed olives. 
This recipe makes about 50 to 60 servings. 



BOILED SALAD DRESSING 

V% teaspoon cayenne 



J4 cup salt 
3 quarts milk 
% cup Crisco 
134 quarts vinegar 



13^ cups flour 
34 cup cornstarch 
\]/2 cups sugar 
2 tablespoons mustard 
1 teaspoon paprika 

8 eggs 

Mix flour, cornstarch, sugar, mustard, paprika, cayenne and salt together. 
Mix to a paste with a little of the milk. Scald remaining milk with the Crisco 
in a double boiler or over hot water. Add the first mixture to the milk gradually 
and cook until smooth and thick, stirring constantly. Pour on to the beaten 
eggs. Return to the fire and cook 3 minutes. Add vinegar a little at a time 
beating after each addition. Stir until dressing is well mixed and blended. 
Cool. 

This recipe makes 43^ quarts of salad dressing. 



208 The h/rt of Rooking and ^erving 



BAKING POWDER BISCUITS 

6J^ quarts flour % cup baking powder 

}/2 cup salt 3 cups Crisco 

2 quarts milk 

Mix and sift flour, salt and baking powder together. Cut in Crisco with a 
knife or rub in with the finger tips. Add milk slowly to make a soft dough. 
Roll out on slightly floured board to % inch thickness and cut with a biscuit 
cutter. Put on a greased baking sheet and bake in a quick oven (425 degrees 
F.) 10 to 15 minutes. 
This recipe makes about 100 biscuits. 



SOUTHERN CORNBREAD 

2 quarts flour 33^ cups cornmeal 

}/2 cup sugar 6 eggs 

% cup baking powder V/2 tablespoons soda 

4 tablespoons salt \}/2 quarts buttermilk 

1 cup melted Crisco 

Mix and sift flour, sugar, baking powder and salt. Stir in cornmeal and mix 
well. Add beaten eggs. Add soda, dissolved in buttermilk and Crisco. Beat 
thoroughly. Bake in greased shallow pans in quick oven (425 degrees F.) 
35 minutes. 

This recipe makes about 50 servings. 



CHOCOLATE CAKE 

1 cup Crisco 4 tablespoons baking powder 

6 cups sugar 2 cups milk 

9 egg yolks 9 squares unsweetened chocolate 

8 cups flour 1 tablespoon vanilla 

23^ teaspoons salt 9 egg whites 

Cream Crisco, sugar and egg yolks together. Mix and sift flour, salt and baking 
powder and add alternately with the milk to the first mixture. Add melted 
chocolate and vanilla and beat thoroughly. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. 
Pour into greased shallow pans and bake in a moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 
20 to30 minutes. When cool cover with any desired frosting. 
This recipe makes about 50 servings. 

APPLE PIES 

Pie Crust 

6 pounds flour 3 pounds Crisco 

4 tablespoons salt Water 

Mix and sift flour and salt. Cut in Crisco with a knife or rub in with finger 
tips. Moisten with just enough cold water to hold the mixture together. 
Chill thoroughly. Roll out thin on a slightly floured board. 



^arge Quantity Rooking 



209 






Pie Filling 

16 pounds tart apples 7 pounds sugar 

2 tablespoons cinnamon 1 cup flour 

Y2 cup Crisco 

Pare and core apples and cut in thin slices. Add cinnamon, sugar and flour 
and mix well. Line pie pans with pastry and fill with apple mixture. Dot 
with Crisco. Cover with top crust, trim and press edges together to make a 
fancy edge. Prick top to allow steam to escape. Bake in a quick oven (425 
degrees F.) 10 minutes, reduce heat to moderate oven (350 degrees F.) and bake 
20 to 30 minutes. 

This recipe makes 14 pies. 



GINGER SNAPS 



1 cup molasses 
1 cup Crisco 
1 cup sugar 
1 teaspoon soda 



4 cups flour (about) 



2 tablespoons water 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 teaspoons ginger 
1 teaspoon salt 



Heat molasses, Crisco and sugar together until Crisco is melted. Cool. Add 
soda dissolved in water. Sift cinnamon, ginger and salt with part of the flour. 
Stir into the first mixture and then add the rest of the flour gradually until 
dough is stiff enough to roll. Chill. Roll on slightly floured board until very 
thin. Cut with a cooky cutter and bake in a moderate oven (325 degrees F.) 
10 to 12 minutes. 
This makes about 100 cookies. 



COFFEE 

8 cups ground coffee 



FOR IOO 



PERSONS 

18 quarts water 



Tie the coffee in thick cheesecloth bags, leaving plenty of room for coffee to 
swell. Let stand in the water several hours. Bring slowly to boiling point 
and boil 5 minutes. Remove the bags and keep coffee hot for serving. 



COCOA FOR IOO PERSONS 



3 cups cocoa 

4 cups sugar 
V2 teaspoon salt 



1 quart warm water 

2 quarts boiling water 
16 quarts hot milk 



Mix cocoa, sugar, salt and warm water together until smooth. Add boiling 
water and boil 10 minutes. Pour into the hot milk, bring to boiling point, 
stirring constantly, and beat with an egg beater for a few minutes. Keep hot 
over boiling water. Serve with whipped cream. 



210 



The o/rt of Rooking and Serving 



CHOCOLATE FOR IOO PERSONS 



2 pounds chocolate 

3 pounds sugar 



]/2 teaspoon salt 



4 quarts boiling water 
16 quarts hot milk 



Melt chocolate, add sugar and boiling water and stir until smooth. Boil 10 
minutes. Add salt. Pour into the hot milk. Beat well with an egg beater 
and keep hot over boiling water. Serve with whipped cream. 



HOW TO PREPARE FOR FIFTY PERSONS 



Desserts 


Ice Cream 


Amount Needed 

6 quarts (brick) 

or 
8 quarts (loose) 




Steamed Puddings 


8 quart mold 
2 quarts sauce 




Strawberry Shortcake 


*Biscuit dough 
6 quarts berries 
23^2 CU P S sugar 

1 quart whipped cream 


Meat 


Meat Pie 


10 pounds stew meat 
1 quart potatoes, cut in pieces 
*Biscuit dough 




Hamburg Steak 


10 pounds meat 
2 cups bread crumbs 
1 quart stock or milk 




Hash 


6 quarts chopped meat 
4 quarts chopped potatoes 
3 quarts stock or water 




Roast Lamb 


16 pounds 




Roast Beef 


16 pounds 




Roast Chicken 


25 pounds 




Creamed Chicken 


6 quarts chicken, cut in cubes 
3J^ quarts white sauce 



*Recipe given in this chapter. 



^arge Quantity Rooking 



211 



HOW TO PREPARE FOR FIFTY PERSONS 



Salads 


Chicken 


Amount Needed 
4 quarts chicken, cut in cubes 
4 quarts celery, diced 
*2 quarts salad dressing 




Fish 


4 quarts flaked fish 
4 quarts celery 
*2 quarts salad dressing 




Fruit 


7 quarts prepared fruit (drained) 
*1 quart salad dressing 


Soups 




4 gallons 


Vegetables 


Creamed Peas 
(or any creamed 
vegetable) 


5 quarts peas 
*2J^ quarts white sauce 




Scalloped Potatoes 


8 quarts sliced potatoes 
3 quarts milk 




*Mashed Potatoes 


15 pounds potatoes 
13^ quarts milk 




*Macaroni and Cheese 


5 pounds uncooked macaroni, 
broken in pieces 
*6 quarts white sauce 
3 cups grated cheese 



*Recipe given in this chapter. 



CHAPTER XXII 



I 



Specialty Dishes 

N THE heart of every true homemaker lies the desire to 
be a good hostess. It is as natural as the desire to be 
beautiful! 



There are still occasions and meals that call for formality 
and ceremony, but they are becoming more and more rare. 
Whether you aspire to entertain formally or merely to gather 
a few congenial friends around your table or hearth, or perhaps 
just to give your family a special treat once in a while when you 
have a little extra time, you will want to be able to prepare 
some one food superlatively well. 

Perhaps you have a "knack" for cooking desserts, or meats 
or salads, or hearty, heartening vegetables. Or perhaps you 
are a terribly busy person who has budgeted your time so 
carefully that you can give only a few minutes to "very special" 
cooking. 

Whichever you are, you will find in this little chapter some 
one specialty dish that appeals to you. We have selected one 
or two that are appropriate for Sunday night suppers, for after- 
noon teas, for party luncheons, a man's dinner, chafing dish 
parties, weddings and birthdays. Each of them is delicious 
and not at all hard to prepare. 



[212] 



Specialty Dishes 213 



PLANKED STEAK 

The steak should be V/i inches thick. Put on a broiler well greased with Crisco. 
Spread steak with Crisco and season with salt and pepper. Broil over a quick 
fire about 12 to 15 minutes, turning every few minutes. Heat the plank, 
grease with Crisco and put the steak on it. Put Duchess Potatoes (page 108) 
around the edge with a pastry tube. Arrange Stuffed Onions (page 107) and 
Baked Stuffed Tomatoes (page 111) around steak. Brush tops of potatoes and 
onions with beaten egg yolk, diluted with 1 tablespoon milk. Place in a hot 
oven (400 degrees F.) and cook about 6 to 8 minutes to brown the potatoes 
and finish cooking the steak. Take from the oven and arrange hot cooked 
carrots, string beans and peas inside the potato border. 
Serve at once with Mushroom Sauce (page 115). 



PLANKED BLUEFISH 

Fish plank 2 tablespoons Crisco 

Blue fish (3Y to 4 lbs.) Y2 teaspoon salt 

Y% teaspoon pepper 
A fish plank should be made of hard wood, about 16 inches long and 12 inches 
wide. Heat plank very hot and grease with Crisco. Remove head and tail 
of fish. Split and clean. Place on the plank, skin side down. Spread with 
melted Crisco and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place under the broiler 
and cook 15 to 20 minutes, depending upon the size of the fish. Decorate with 
Duchess Potatoes (page 108) put through a pastry bag. Return to oven and 
cook until potatoes are brown. Garnish top of fish with chopped parsley and 
slices of lemon. Arrange hot cooked carrots, creamed Brussels sprouts and 
pickled beets cut in fancy shapes, inside the potato border. Serve from the 
plank. 

LOBSTER PATTIES 

Follow recipe for Boiled Lobster (page 84). Crack claws and remove meat. 
Discard the stomach which lies under the head, also the woolly gills. Save the 
fatty green substance and coral (if any) to mix with the meat. Pick out all the 
meat and cut in uniform pieces. To 2 cups of lobster add 2 cups Medium 
White Sauce (page 113) using 1 cup thin cream in place of 1 cup of the milk and 
heat thoroughly. Add 1 tablespoon chopped parsley and 1 well-beaten egg 
yolk before taking from the fire. Serve in Patty Shells (page 179). Garnish 
with watercress. 

SHRIMP NEWBURG 

2 tablespoons Crisco Yi cup cream 

V/2 tablespoons flour Y cup milk 

% teaspoon salt 2 cups cooked shrimps 

Few grains cayenne 2 egg yolks 

1 tablespoon sherry flavoring 
Melt Crisco, add flour, salt and cayenne and mix well. Add cream and milk 
gradually and bring to the boiling point, stirring constantly. Add shrimps. 



214 ■.:-::- -_^7 :<:n:- am Azrv;\g 



Just before serving add the beaten egg yolks and flavoring. Serve on rounds 
of Puff Paste (page 179). Garnish with parsley and thin strips of pimento. 



SWEETBREADS B E C H A M E L 



: ? 2i:s 



All ri" c .ry 27.1 ?rl~.z~. rH '/ 

(page 51) or on points of toast. 



1 :_? >:: :^ 
1 cup rich milk 

: :i: .^: : :r. zhrrrei rirsiey 
1 e~.c yrlk 

r. Drain. Put in saucepan with 
to cover. Bring to boiling point. 
Strain off and measure the stock, 
i the sweetbreads and cut them in 
stir until blended. Add milk and 
ids and keep hot over hot water. 
Ere :::'.;-. Serve in Cro-s:aies 



AR TICHOKES HOLLANDAISE 

Cut stem and tough outside leaves from French artichokes. Remove the 
thistle-like center or "choke/ 9 Soak in salted water H hour. Boil about 25 
minutes in salted water to which 1 tablespoon vinegar has been added. Drain. 
Serve with HoDandaise Sauce (page 115). 
These may be served cold with cold HoDandaise. 



B R : : ■; h e 



1 :_? rr.i'.k 
J£ cup Crisco 

: ; :up sugar 
1 : : :eisr; ;-s sal: 



". ye:?: :iEe 

1 zii.tsz :>:*> LEe-^irm ^::er 
3 eggs 

1 :r25?::r. :err.:r. e>:::i:: 
4 : : :o 5 :u?s £:_: 

Heat milk and add Crisco, sugar and salt. When lukewarm add the yeast 
cake dissolved in warm water. Add 1 cup flour and beat thoroughly. Cover 
it. i --: .-. i -:::-. r.:;e :; r.se -~:E E^E: — 1 E:_:. Aii :r2:er. e^> 27.2 lerr.rr. 
extract and enough flour to make a firm dough. Knead on a slightly floured 
board until smooth and elastic to touch. Roll out to J£ mcn thickness into a 
rectangular shape. Spread lightly with melted Crisco. Fold edges to the 
center arid fold again. Cover and set in a warm place to rise until fight. Cut in 
pieces H inch wide. Twist each piece from the ends in opposite directions. 
Bring ends together and press into center of strip. Put on a greased pan 1 
inch apart. Cover and set in a warm place to rise. Bake in a hot oven (400 
degrees F.) 15 to 20 minutes. While hot spread with 2 cups confectioners* 
sugar moistened with a little milk and flavored with vanilla. 
This recipe makes about 24 brioche. 




The characteristic shape of French Brioche is obtain 

small pieces of dough in opposite directions, bringin 

and pressing them into center of strip 



ORANGE BISCUITS 



2 cups flour 
4 teaspoons baking p 
} 2 teaspoon salt 



4 tablespoons Crisco 

iespoon grated orange rind 
^ cup milk 



Juice of 1 ora: 

Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt. Cut in Crisco with a knife or 
rub in with the ringer tips. Add orange rind and enough milk to make a 
soft dough. Roll out on a slightly floured board to Yo inch thickness. 
Cut with a biscuit cutter. Dip loaf sugar in orange juice. Put a piece 
of sugar on each biscuit. Bake in a quick oven (425 degrees F.) 10 to 15 
minu 

(Cut with a small cutter, these biscuits are most attractive for afternoon 
tea.) 

This recipe makes 12 



FRUIT SAL A D 



1 grapefruit 1 banana 

3 oranges ices pineapple 

Yl pound Malaga g: 

Peel grapefruit and oranges. Remove sections, discarding the white mem- 
brane. Cut banana and pineapple in small pieces. Skin grapes and remove 
seeds. Mix all the fruit together. Drain. Pile lightly on heart leaves of 
lettuc vith Pineapple Dressing. 

[215] 



216 The ^rt oe Rooking and Serving 



PINEAPPLE DRESSING 

4 tablespoons flour 1 tablespoon Crisco 

3 tablespc 2 eggs 

Juice from 1 can sliced pineapple 1 cup cream, whipped 

Mix flour and sugar, adding pineapple juice a little at a time, until the mixture 
will pour. Heat remaining juice and add flour mixture. Cook directly over 
fire, stirring until slightly thickened. Place over hot water, add Crisco and 
well-beaten eggs. Cook again until quite thick, stirring constantly. Chill. 
Fold in whipped cream just before serving. 



COFFEE MOUSSE 

3^ cup powdered sugar 
Few grains salt ip strong coffee 

1 tablespoon mocha essence 
Whip the cream, sugar and salt together until stiff. Add coffee and mocha 
essence and mix well. Turn mixture into a mold. Cover tightly. Pack in 
1 part rock salt to 3 parts finely cracked ice and let stand 4 or 5 hours. Serve 
with whipped cream. 



CHOCOLATE MOUSSE 

Follow recipe for Coffee Mousse, using 2 ounces melted unsweetened chocolate 
instead of coffee. Add 1 teaspoon vanilla instead of mocha essence. 



FRUIT MOUSSE 

Follow recipe for Coffee Mousse and add two cups slightly sweetened, chopped 
and drained fruit and 1 teaspoon vanilla, omitting the coffee and mocha essence. 



MOCK NESSELRODE PUDDING 

2J-0 tablespoons gelatine 5£ cup chopped raisins 

1 cup cold milk 10 macaroons, rolled 

4 egg yolks 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Ji cup sugar J^ teaspoon almond extract 

aided milk i :ablespoons sherry flavoring 

4 egg whites 
Soak gelatine in cold milk 5 minutes. Beat egg yolks and suga ici and 

pour the scalded milk on them. Put in a double boiler, or over hot water 
and cook, stirring constar.: staid ;:a:s the spoon. Add gelatine and 

milk and stir until dis Take from the fire and add raisins, macaroon 

crumbs, vanilla, almor.i extra: berry flavoring. Mix well. Fold in 

stiffly beaten egg whites. Se: in a pan of i and beat until thick. Pour 

into a mold which has been dipped in cold water and chill thoroughly. Turn 
out of mold onto a plate and decorate with whipped cream and Maraschino 
cherries. 



Specialty 'Dishes 217 



CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE 

2 tablespoons Crisco 3 squares unsweetened chocolate 

3 tablespoons flour 3 tablespoons hot water 
1 cup milk 3 egg yolks 

Yi cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Y2 teaspoon salt 3 egg whites 

Melt Crisco, add flour and mix well. Add milk gradually and bring to the 
boiling point, stirring constantly. Add sugar, salt and melted chocolate which 
has been mixed with the hot water. Cool. Add egg yolks and beat well. 
Add vanilla and fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into a greased 
baking dish. Set in a pan of hot water and bake in a moderate oven (325 
degrees F.) 50 to 60 minutes. Serve immediately with Custard Sauce (page 197), 
or whipped cream. 

CREAM PUFFS 

Y2 cup Crisco \Yi cups flour 

1 cup water 5 eggs 

Put Crisco and water in a saucepan and bring to the boiling point. Add flour 
and mix well. Cook 2 minutes, stirring constantly. Cool. Add eggs one at a 
time beating after each egg is added. Beat for 5 minutes. Drop by table- 
spoons on a greased shallow pan 2 inches apart. Flatten with back of spoon 
into circles, leaving center a little thicker. Bake in a moderate oven (350 
degrees F.) 30 to 35 minutes. Cool. Make a slit with a sharp pointed knife 
near the bottom of the puff and fill with Cream Filling (page 170), or whipped 
cream. 



ECLAIRS 

Follow the recipe for Cream Puffs. Press the dough through a pastry bag on- 
to a greased shallow pan, making strips 4 inches long and 1 inch wide and 
keeping them 2 inches apart. Or bake in greased lady finger pans. 



MERINGUE CAKE 

6 egg whites 1 teaspoon vinegar 

2 cups sifted granulated sugar Few grains salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat egg whites until stiff, add sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, then vinegar, 
salt and vanilla, beating constantly (about 30 minutes altogether). Covi r 
bottom of 2 round pans with 2 layers of wet wrapping paper. Pour in the egg 
mixture and bake in very slow oven (250 degrees F ) 45 minutes to 1 hour. 
Serve with preserved fruit, whipped cream or ice cream between the la 
and whipped cream on top. 

This meringue may be made in individual portions. 



218 The ?/rt of Rooking and ^erving 



BIRTHDAY CAKE 

Y cup Crisco 1 teaspoon salt 

\]/2 cups sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 

3 eggs % cup milk 

234 cups flour 1 teaspoon almond extract 

Cream Crisco, sugar and eggs together. Mix and sift flour, salt and baking 
powder and add alternately with the milk to the first mixture. Add almond 
extract and beat thoroughly. Pour into a greased tube pan. Wrap a button, 
thimble, ring and dime in separate pieces of wax paper and put into the cake 
batter. Bake in a moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 50 to 60 minutes. Cover 
and decorate with Ornamental Frosting (page 167). 

WEDDING CAKE 

Y pound Crisco 1 tablespoon mace 
% pound brown sugar Y tablespoon ginger 

6 eggs Y tablespoon clove 

Y cup molasses 3 pounds raisins 
1 cup grape juice 1 pound currants 

Y pound flour Y pound lemon and orange peel, 
13^2 tablespoons cinnamon chopped 

Y pound citron, chopped 

Cream Crisco and sugar together. Add the beaten eggs, molasses and grape 
juice and mix well. Mix and sift flour, cinnamon, mace, ginger and clove. 
Add enough of the sifted flour mixture to the fruit to keep it from sticking 
together. Add remaining flour and fruit to the first mixture and beat thor- 
oughly. Line bottom of a large round pan with greased paper and grease 
sides of pan. Pour mixture into it and bake in a very slow oven (225 degrees 
F.) 3 to 4 hours. A small pan of water in the oven helps to keep the cake from 
burning during the long cooking. Ice and decorate with Ornamental Frosting 
(page 167). 



ROLLED PECAN WAFERS 

Y cup Crisco 4 tablespoons flour 

1 cup brown sugar Y CU P pecans, chopped 

2 eggs Y2 teaspoon salt 

Y teaspoon maple flavoring 

Cream Crisco and sugar together. Beat in eggs, one at a time. Stir in flour 
and mix well. Add nuts, salt and flavoring. Drop by teaspoons on greased 
cooky sheet about 5 inches apart. Spread out very thin with back of spoon. 
Bake in slow oven (300 degrees F.) 10 to 12 minutes. Remove with a spatula 
or broad-bladed knife and roll while hot over round handle of wooden spoon. 
If the cookies get too cool to roll, reheat in oven. (If difficulty is found in roll- 
ing, they may be served as wafers.) 
This recipe makes about 36 rolls. 



Specialty Dishes 



219 



SCOTCH FANS 

1 cup Crisco 2J4 cups flour 

% cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

1 egg yolk 

Cream Crisco and sugar together. Add flour and salt and knead until in- 
gredients hold together. Roll out on slightly floured board to J4 inch thick- 
ness. Cut in circles with large fluted cooky cutter, then cut each circle in 3 fan 
shaped pieces. Brush with egg yolk diluted with 1 tablespoon water. Bake 
in a slow oven (300 degrees F.) 15 to 20 minutes. 
This recipe makes about 30 fans. 



HAZELNUT COOKIES 



J4 pound sweet chocolate 
J4 pound finely chopped hazelnuts 
}/i pound finely chopped almonds 
% cup powdered sugar 



2 egg whites 
\i teaspoon cinnamon 

Few grains ground clove 
2 tablespoons melted Crisco 



Melt chocolate over hot water. Add chopped nuts and sugar and mix well. 
Add stiffly beaten egg whites, spices and Crisco. Mix well. Chill. Roll out 
thin, a small quantity at a time, on slightly floured board. Cut with cooky 
cutter. Place on greased pans and bake in moderate oven (325 degrees F.) 
12 to 15 minutes. 
This recipe makes about 50 cookies. 



CHAPTER XXIII 



Spring-Summer Menus 

^UNDAY 
Breakfast 

Stewed Rhubarb 
Puffed Rice 
Popovers Marmalade 

Coffee Cocoa 

Dinner 

Roast Spring Lamb, Mint Sauce 

New Potatoes Green Peas 

Watercress Salad 

Lemon Ice Sand Tarts 

Coffee 

Supper 

Stuffed Tomato Salad 

Baking Powder Biscuit Cottage Cheese 

Berries Silver Cake 

Tea Milk 

cJ^fONDAY 
Breakfast 

Blueberries 

Shredded Wheat 

Crisp Bacon Toast 

Coffee 

Luncheon 

Jellied Tuna Fish 
Cheese Biscuit Potato Chips 

Fruit Salad, Pineapple Dressing 
Tea Milk 

Dinner 

Minced Lamb en Casserole 
Radishes Steamed Brown Rice 

String Beans 
Romaine Salad, Tarragon Dressing 
Baked Custard, Caramel Sauce 

[220] 



^PRING-^UMMER JfrfENUS 221 



Tuesday 

Breakfast 

Cantaloupe 

Bran Flakes 

Sauteed Lamb Kidneys Toast 

Coffee Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Cream of Tomato Soup 
String Bean Salad Sardine Sandwiches 

Sliced Peaches Cup Cakes 

Tea Milk 

Dinner 

Broiled Beefsteak 
French Fried Potatoes Baked Stuffed Tomatoes 

Endive Salad, Celery Dressing 
Blueberry Pudding, Foamy Sauce 

Wednesday 

Breakfast 

Fresh Apricots 

Wheatena 

Poached Eggs on Toast 

Coffee Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Cheese Fondue 

Cabbage Salad Sour Milk Biscuit 

Peach Jam 

Milk Iced Tea 

Dinner 

Cream of Watercress Soup 

Beefsteak Hash, Mushroom Sauce 

Parsley Potatoes Baked Corn 

Pineapple Sherbet 

Nut Cookies Coffee 

Thursday 

Breakfast 

Sliced Watermelon 

Puffy Omelet 

Toast Marmalade 

Coffee Cocoa 



222 The c/rt of Rooking and Serving 



Luncheon 

Creamed Beef on Toast 

Tomato Salad 

Brown Sugar Cookies Iced Cocoa or Milk 

Dinner 

Chicken Chop Suey 
Corn Fritters Crisp Rolls 

Asparagus Salad 
Peach Shortcake Coffee 

j^RIDAY 
Breakfast 

Blueberries 

Hominy 

Shirred Eggs Bran Muffins 

Coffee Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Rice Cakes, Cheese Sauce 
Fresh Peas Popovers 

Waldorf Salad, Whipped Cream Dressing 
Iced Cocoa Milk 

Dinner 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 

Broiled Mackerel 

Scalloped Potatoes Swiss Chard or Beet Tops 

Sliced Cucumbers 

Cottage Pudding, Lemon Sauce 

Coffee 

Saturday 

Breakfast 

Oranges 
Corn Flakes 
Crisp Bacon Coffee Ring 

Coffee Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Italian Spaghetti 

Heart of Lettuce Salad Emergency Biscuit 

Raspberries 

Milk Iced Tea 



JPRING-^UMMER <lM E N U S 223 



Dinner 

Cream of Pea Soup 

Veal Cutlets Mashed Potatoes 

Steamed Carrots 

Chocolate Layer Cake 

Coffee 

^UNDAY 
Breakfast 

Pears 
Wheatena 
Waffles and Honey 
Coffee Cocoa 

Dinner 

Roast Duck 

Currant Jelly Celery 

Parsley Potatoes Brussels Sprouts 

Lettuce Salad 

Vanilla Ice Cream, Fresh Strawberries 

Coffee 

Supper 

Jellied Vegetable Salad 
Scotch Scones Olives 

Sliced Peaches and Cream 
Marble Cake Milk Cocoa 

c^fONDAY 
Breakfast 

Blackberries 

Puffed Wheat 

Poached Eggs on Toast 

Coffee Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Cheese Souffle 

Fried Tomatoes Graham Gems 

Strawberry Jam 

Milk Iced Cocoa 

Dinner 

Rolled Flank Steak 
Potato Puffs Different Cabbage 

Cucumber Salad 
Deep Huckleberry Pie Ch< 

Coffee 



224 The cyfRT of Rooking and Serving 



Tuesday 

Breakfast 

Cantaloupe 

Fried Eggs and Bacon Toast 

Coffee Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Corn Chowder 
Egg Plant au Gratin 
Bran Muffins Honey- 

Cocoa Milk 

Dinner 

Duck with Rice en Casserole (left-over) 

String Beans Baked Stuffed Tomatoes 

Watercress and Radish Salad 

Peach Basket Turnover 

Coffee 

Wednesday 

Breakfast 

Orange Juice 

Shredded Wheat 

Spanish Omelet Corn Muffins 

Coffee Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Broiled Luncheon Sandwich 

Asparagus Salad 

Strawberries and Cream Nut Cookies 

Milk or Iced Cocoa 

Dinner 

Boiled Salmon with Horseradish Sauce 

Lyonnaise Potatoes Beets Piquante 

Green Pepper Salad 

Macaroon Custard Pudding 

Coffee 

Thursday 

Breakfast 

Plums 

Hominy 

Egg Fluff Toast 

Marmalade 

Coffee 



^PRING-^UMMER J^ENUS 225 



Luncheon 

Creamed Chicken on Toast 

Emergency Biscuit Currant Jam 

Iced Cocoa 

Pecan Cakes 

Dinner 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Veal Loaf with Mushroom Sauce 

Scalloped Potatoes Green Peas 

Grapefruit and Orange Salad 

Coffee 

J^RIDAY 
Breakfast 

Strawberries and Cream 

Codfish Balls 

Toast 

Coffee Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Russian Egg Salad 

Nut Muffins Cocoa 

Caramel Custard 

Dinner 

Broiled Bluefish 

Baked Stuffed Tomatoes French Fried Potatoes 

Cucumber Salad 

Cherry Pie 

Saturday 

Breakfast 

Pears 

Shredded Wheat 

Boiled Eggs Muffins 

Coffee Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Scalloped Fish in Ramekins (Left Over) 

Baking Powder Biscuit Tomato Salad 

Iced Tea Cookies 

Dinner 

Braised Sweetbreads on Toast 

Creamed Potatoes Baked Summer Squash 

Heart of Lettuce Salad 

Molasses Cake, Whipped Cream 

Coffee 



CHAPTER XXIV 



Autumn- Winter Menus 

Sunday 

Breakfast 

Orange Juice 

Sausages Baked Potatoes 

Griddle Cakes and Maple Syrup 

Coffee Cocoa 

Dinner 

Roast Beef, Yorkshire Pudding 
Franconia Potatoes Baked Squash 

Olives Currant Jelly- 

Asparagus Salad, Thousand Island Dressing 
Butterscotch Pie 
Coffee 

Supper 

Shrimp Newburg 

Sweet Pickles Scotch Scones 

Canned Peaches 

Caramel Layer Cake 

Tea 



(^rfONDAY 

Breakfast 

Baked Apples 
Cream of Wheat 
Shirred Eggs Plain Muffins 

Coffee Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Cream of Tomato Soup 
Macaroni and Cheese Fruit Salad, Pineapple Dressing 

Tea Milk 

Dinner 

Shepherd's Pie 

Steamed Carrots Spinach Salad, French Dressing 

Clover Leaf Rolls 

Spanish Cream Coffee 

[226] 



Autumn-Pinter J^Tenus 227 



Tuesday 




Breakfast 




Oranges 
Oatmeal 

Bran Muffins 
Coffee 


Crisp Bacon 
Grape Jam 
Cocoa 


Luncheon 




Corn Chowder 
Cabbage and Celery Salad 
Stewed Peas 

Dinner 


Parker House Rolls 
Peanut Cookies 


Virginia Baked Ham Potato Souffle 

Creamed Parsnips 

Pickle Relish 

Rice Pudding with Raisins 

Coffee 


Wednesday 


Breakfast 




Stewed Prunes 
Wheatena 

Toast 

Coffee 


Scrambled Eggs 
Marmalade 
Cocoa 


Luncheon 




Ham Souffle (Left Over) 

Baking Powder Biscuit Waldorf Salad 

Tea Milk 


Dinner 




Lamb Chops 
Sweet Potatoes, Southern Style 

Mint Jelly 
Pumpkin Pie 

Coffee 


Scalloped Cabbage 
Cheese 


Thursday 




Breakfast 





Bananas 

Shredded Wheat Griddle Cakes and Honey 

Coffee Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Egg and Spinach en Casserole 

Grapefruit Salad Rice Muffins 

Tea Milk 



228 The h/rt of Rooking and Serving 



Dinner 

Braised Liver with Bacon 

Mashed Potatoes Baked Stuffed Onions 

Heart of Lettuce Salad, Russian Dressing 

Dutch Apple Cake, Lemon Sauce 

Coffee 

^RIDAY 

Breakfast 

Grapes 
Cornmeal Mush Puffy Omelet 

Toast Coffee Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Cream of Potato Soup 

Baked Macedoine Stewed Apricots 

Oatmeal Cookies 

Tea Milk 

Dinner 

Baked Stuffed Haddock 

Potato Puffs Spinach and Egg 

Celery and Nut Salad 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding, Custard Sauce 

Coffee 

Saturday 

Breakfast 

Grapefruit 
Farina 
Toast Marmalade 

Coffee Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Creamed Haddock (Left Over) 
Baked Potatoes 
Cornmeal Muffins Grape Jam 

Tea Milk 

Dinner 

Baked Beans Steamed Brown Bread 

Pineapple and Cheese Salad 

Lady Baltimore Cake 

Coffee 



Autumn-Pinter <JfrfENus 



229 



Coffee 



^UNDAY 
Breakfast 

Grapefruit 

Fried Scallops 

Waffles and Syrup 

Dinner 



Cocoa 



Roast Chicken, Chestnut Stuffing 

Celery Cranberry Jelly 

Potato Puffs Cauliflower au Gratin 

Heart of Lettuce Salad 

Vanilla Ice Cream, Chocolate Sauce 

Coffee 



Supper 

Cheese Rarebit on Toast 



Baking Powder Biscuit 



Apples 



Coffee 



Hermits 

cJftfONDAY 
Breakfast 

Crisp Bacon 
Toast 



Stewed Apricots 
Milk 



Wheatena 



Cocoa 



Plain Muffins 
Tea 



Luncheon 

Egg Croquettes, Cheese Sauce 

Milk 
Dinner 

Chicken Pot-Pie (Left Over) 



Jam 



Cranberry Jelly 

Sweet Potato Croquettes Scalloped Cabbage 

Grapefruit Salad 

Cottage Pudding, Chocolate Sauce 

Coffee 

Tuesday 

Breakfast 



Bran Flakes 



Fried Smelts 

Cornmeal Muffins 

Coffee Cocoa 



230 The zArt of Rooking and Serving 



Luncheon 

Chicken Soup 
Salmon Salad, Cooked Dressing 

Waffles, Maple Syrup 
Tea Milk 

Dinner 

Veal Cutlets 

Parsley Potatoes Eggplant au Gratin 

Celery Cranberry Sauce 

Lemon Meringue Pie 

Coffee 

Wednesday 

Breakfast 

Sliced Oranges Oatmeal 

French Omelet 

Toast Jam 

Coffee Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Baked Green Peppers, 

Stuffed with Veal and Tomato (Left Over) 

Sweet Potato Biscuit 

Apple Sauce Molasses Cake 

Dinner 

Curried Lamb with Rice 

Vegetable Fritters Pickle Relish 

Lettuce Salad 

Roly-Poly Pudding, Foamy Sauce 

Coffee 

Thursday 

Breakfast 

Stewed Figs Puffed Rice 

Crisp Bacon 

Toast 

Coffee Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Oyster Chowder 

Whole Wheat Muffins 

Cabbage and Green Pepper Salad 

Doughnuts 
Milk Tea 



d^fUTUMN-^INTER Jftf E N U S 231 



Dinner 

Beef Kidney Stew, Dumplings 

Glace Sweet Potatoes Asparagus Bearnaise 

Cranberry Jelly Celery 

Chocolate Souffle 

Custard Sauce 

Coffee 

J^RIDAY 
Breakfast 

Stewed Prunes 

Codfish Balls Muffins 

Coffee Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Cheese Souffle 

Emergency Biscuit 

Jam 

Tea Milk 

Dinner 

Fillet of Sole, Tartar Sauce 

Potato Souffle Baked Stuffed Tomatoes 

Romaine Salad, Horseradish Dressing 

Cocoanut Layer Cake 

Coffee 

Saturday 

Breakfast 

Bananas Cream of Wheat 

Scrambled Eggs and Bacon 

Toast 

Coffee Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Ham Salad, Cooked Dressing 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

Cake 

Tea Milk 

Dinner 

Pork Chops and Sweet Potatoes en Casserole 

Baked Squash 

Tomato Jelly Salad 

Apple Fritters with Lemon Sauce 

Coffee 



CHAPTER XXV 



Menus for Special Occasions 
Thanksgiving 

Fruit Cocktail 

Celery Olives 

Cream of Corn Soup with Crisp Crackers 

Roast Turkey, Chestnut Stuffing 

Mashed Potatoes Baked Stuffed Onions 

Cranberry Sauce 

Pumpkin Pie Cheese 

Coffee 

(Christmas 

Oysters on Half-Shell 

Stuffed Celery Ripe Olives 

Cream of Mushroom Soup 

Bread Sticks 

Roast Goose or Duck, Fried Apples 

Glace Sweet Potatoes Creamed Cauliflower 

Dinner Rolls Currant Jelly 

Heart of Lettuce Salad 

Mince Pie French Ice Cream 

Nuts Mints 

Coffee 

£\)MPANY dCUNCHEON WITHOUT A (JftfAID 

Fruit Cocktail 

Chicken Pie Potatoes Julienne 

Scotch Scones Currant Jelly 

Romaine Salad 

Meringue Cake 

Coffee Salted Nuts 

Company dCuNCHEON with a JfrfAiD 

Cream of Mushroom Soup 
Sweetbreads Bechamel Potatoes Surprise 

Asparagus Hollandaise 

Lettuce and Cucumber Salad Parker House Rolls 

Mock Nesselrode Pudding 

Salted Almonds Coffee 

[232] 



^PECIAL -JfENUS 233 



^OMPANY ©INNER WITHOUT A JftfAID 

Oysters on Half-Shell 

Consomme 

Planked Steak 

Hearts of Lettuce Salad Dinner Rolls 

Celery 

Fruit Mousse Coffee 

Mints Salted Nuts 

Company ©inner with a cJ^Taid 

Canapes 

Bouillon 

Filet of Sole, Tartar Sauce 

Parsley Potato Balls 

Roast Capon Creamed Peas in Timbale Cases 

Dinner Rolls Cranberry Jelly 

Watercress and Endive Salad 

Orange Ice 

Coffee Mints 

Picnics — J^Totor Punches 

Cold Fried Chicken 

Chopped Watercress Sandwiches 

Vegetable Salad Egg and Olive Sandwiches 

Coffee or Tea in Thermos Bottle 

Orange Layer Cake 



Cold Ham and Tongue 
Potato Salad Pickles 

Buttered Rolls Hot Coffee 

Fruit Cake 

^AMPFIRE PARTIES 

Broiled Steak 

Baked Potatoes 

Rolls Doughnuts Coffee 



Broiled Bacon Sandwiches 

Scrambled Eggs Roasted Corn 

Coffee Fruit 

Cake 

^HURCH ^UPPERS 

Oyster Stew 
Baked Beans Asparagus Salad 

Ice Cream and Cake 
Coffee 



234 The c/rt of Rooking and Serving 



^HURCH ^UPPERS — {Continued) 

Macaroni and Cheese 

Parker House Rolls Tomato Salad 

Apple Pie 

Coffee 



Chicken a la King 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

Hearts of Lettuce with Russian Dressing 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Coffee 



Potato Salad 

Cold Baked Ham Southern Cornbread 

Chocolate Cake with Whipped Cream 

Coffee 



CROSS INDEX 



What to Serve and How to Serve It 



BREAKFAST 



Main Dishes 

Fried Scallops 56 

Fried Eels 56 

Fried Smelts 57 

Calves' Liver 57 

Fried Hominy 72 

Scrambled Eggs 77 

Shirred Eggs 78 

Fried Eggs 77 

French Omelet 78 

Puffy Omelet 78 



Egg Fluff 79 

Saute Butterfish 83 

Creamed Codfish 83 

Shad Roe 86 

Beef Hash 91 

Creamed Beef on Toast 91 

Minced Lamb on Toast 93 

Broiled Ham 96 

Braised Liver 97 



LUNCHEON 



Egg and Casserole Dishes 

Curried Eggs 79 

Golden Eggs 79 

Scalloped Eggs 79 

Baked Eggs in Tomato Sauce. ... 80 

Baked Eggs with Cheese Sauce. . . 80 

Eggs and Spinach en Casserole. . . 80 

Eggs and Mushrooms en Casserole 80 

Egg Croquettes 53 

Macaroni and Chipped Beef en 

Casserole 72 

Baked Noodles, Cheese and Ham. 72 
Baked Samp and Cheese with To- 
mato Sauce 73 



Italian Spaghetti 73 

Baked Spaghetti 73 

Cheese Dreams 74 

Cheese Fondue 74 

Mexican Cheese 74 

Cheese Omelet 78 

Jelly Omelet 78 

Spanish Omelet 7^ 

Egg Souffle 79 

Cheese Souffle 74 

Ring-Tum-Diddy 74 



Fish 

Soft Shell Crabs 54 

Fried Clams 55 

Fried Scallops 56 

Fried Oysters 56 

Fried Smelts 57 

Fried Clams in Batter 55 

Fried Oysters in Batter 56 

Clam Fritters 55 



Oyster Fritters 56 

Creamed Codfish 83 

Boiled Lobster 84 

Broiled Oysters 84 

Scalloped Salmon 85 

Shad Roe, Broiled 86 

Shrimp and Rue, Baked 



[235] 



:5c 



The ^Trt of Rooking an? Serving 



L l" N CHEO N 



Meat 

Be-e:"5tea 



Pic. . 

B2::>. 

Beef 



Veal 

Veal 

CUTT 

Veal 



rr.ei Bee:* :r. ^ci>: . 
:ec Lirr.7 :r. i :i>: . 

Loaf 

Pic 

::: V :: ; lr .z R:;e 



i Casserole 

Sweet Potatoes 



90 
91 

-: 
-5 

91 
91 
93 

c 5 
~4 
-4 
-4 
?5 
-5 



Si-si^e I jrr.^vers 95 

Broiled Ham .96 

Ham Souffle .96 

Beef Kidney Stew. . .96 

Stuffed Heart en Casserole 96 

Sauteed Lamb Kidneys 97 

Braised liver. . . ... 97 

Fried Chicken. .98 

Chicker. Pie ^ 

Chicken C:::„e::es 55 

Lamb Croquettes 54 

Veal C::-e::es 54 

Beef Cutlets 53 



Salads 



Ru><: 

Hsrr. 



^lad. .140 

igg Salad.. .140 

id .141 

ic Salad .141 



Potato Salad... .141 

Salmon Salad. . . 141 

S:-jrTei . ;-:.-:;■ Saiai 142 

Waldorf Salad. 



Hearty Sandwiches 



Cr.i; 
He: 



.146 
.146 
.146 



Broiled Luncheon Sandwich 146 

Sardine Sandwich 147 



Fish 

Bc;:ei c 



DINNER 



Ifish 83 

Sauteed Butterhsh 83 

Sauteed Codfish 83 

Stuffed Haddock 83 

Halibut Steak 84 

Stuffed Halibut Steak 84 

Baked Mackerel 84 



Fried Pickerel 5 : 

Boiled Salmon .85 

B:;:'ee 5i!r:;n 5:r2K 55 

B:c:lei 5~- 5: 

Filet of Sole (Flounder) 86 

Baked Weakfish 86 

Planked Bluefish 213 



Meat 

Roast Beef 88 

Braised Beef .89 

Pot Roast a la Mode 89 

BeefStew 89 

Rolled Flank Steak. .89 

Swiss Steak 90 

Beefsteak Pie 90 

Hamburg Balls 90 



Scalloped Beef 91 

Roast Leg of Lamb. .91 

Stuffed Shoulder of Lamb 91 

Curried Lamb and Rice 92 

Irish Stew .92 

Lamb en Casserole. . . .92 

Shepherd's Pie ... 95 

Boiled Leg of Mutton . 95 



^HAT TO ^ERVE AND Jfo W TO ^ERVE IT 237 



DINNER (Continued) 



Meat (Continued) 

Roast Stuffed Veal. 93 

Veal Cutlets, Individual 93 

Veal Loaf 93 

Veal Pie .: 94 

Curried Veal and Rice 94 

Crown Roast Pork 94 

Stuffed Pork Tenderloin 95 

Baked Virginia Ham 96 

Beef Kidney Stew 96 

Stuffed Heart en Casserole 96 

Boiled Beef Tongue 97 

Breaded Sweetbreads 97 

Roast Chicken 98 

Roast Capon 98 

Fried Chicken 98 



Fricassee Chicken 98 

Chicken Pie 98 

Chicken Pot Pie 99 

American Chicken Chop Suey. ... 99 

American Pork Chop Suey 99 

Roast Duck 99 

Roast Goose 99 

Roast Turkey 100 

Chicken Croquettes 53 

Veal Croquettes 54 

Lamb Croquettes 54 

Beef Cutlets 53 

Planked Steak 213 

Sweetbreads Bechamel 214 



DESSERTS 



Pastry 

Apple Dumplings 179 

Peach Dumplings 180 

Berry Dumplings 180 

Apple Pie 180 

One Crust Apple Pie 180 

Cobblestone Pie 180 

Blueberry Pie 181 

Chocolate Pie 181 

Chocolate Cream Pie 181 

Cream Pie 182 

Custard Pie 182 



Cocoanut Custard Pie 182 

Deep Dish Huckleberry Pie 182 

Lemon Meringue Pie 182 

Mince Pie 183 

Mock Cherry Pie 183 

Peach Pie 183 

Pineapple Pie 184 

Orange Pie 184 

Pumpkin Pie 184 

Rhubarb Pie 184 



Puddings 

Cottage Pudding 189 

Chocolate Cottage Pudding 189 

Fruit Cottage Pudding 190 

Dutch Apple Cake 190 

Roly-Poly Pudding 190 

Peach Basket Turnover 191 

Blueberry Pudding 192 

Bread Pudding 191 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 191 

Rice Pudding 192 

Baked Indian Pudding 192 

Brown Betty 193 



Steamed Chocolate Pudding 192 

Steamed Fig Pudding 193 

Steamed Molasses Pudding 192 

Plum Pudding 194 

Mock Plum Pudding 193 

Boiled Custard 193 

Macaroon Custard 194 

Baked Custard 194 

Vanilla Blanc Mange 194 

Chocolate Blanc Mange L9S 

Plain Bavarian Cream 

Spanish Cream 195 



238 The cyfRT of Rooking and Serving 



DESSERTS (Continued) 



Frozen Desserts 

Lemon Ice 195 

Orange Ice 195 

Pineapple Sherbet 196 

Vanilla Ice Cream 196 

Cakes 

Rich Cake 153 

Almond Cake 154 

Lady Baltimore Cake 155 

Pound Cake 159 

Angel Cake 162 

Sponge Cake 162 



Chocolate Ice Cream 196 

French Ice Cream 196 

Coffee Ice Cream 196 



Chocolate Roll 162 

Filled Cup Cakes 163 

Filled Chocolate Cakes 163 , 

Cream Puffs 217 

Eclairs 217 

Meringue Cake 217 



AFTERNOON TEA 

Bread and Sandwiches 

Blueberry Tea Muffins 122 



Orange Biscuits 215 

Scotch Scones 124 

Nut Bread (for sandwiches) 125 

Raisin Brown Bread 125 

Butterscotch Rolls 127 

Cheese Fingers 143 

Cakes and Pastries 

Banbury Tarts 185 

Gooseberry Tarts 186 

Apricot Tarts 185 

Cocoanut Date Strips 186 

Fruit Pastries 186 

Peanut Cream Pastries 186 

Almond Cake 154 

Nut Cake 154 

Angel Cake 162 

Sponge Cake 162 

Sour Cream Cakes 163 

Filled Cup Cakes 163 

Filled Chocolate Cakes 163 

Candy 

Chocolate Fudge 201 

Chocolate Marshmallow Fudge. . .201 

Chocolate Nut Fudge 201 

Chocolate Cocoanut Fudge 201 



Cheese Cream Puffs 143 

Egg and Olive Sandwich 146 

Lettuce Sandwich 146 

Nut and Raisin Sandwich 147 

Pickled Walnut and Cheese 

Sandwich 147 

Wide Open Sandwich 148 



Sand Tarts 164 

Spice Cookies 164 

Filled Cookies 164 

Chocolate Cookies 164 

Cocoanut Cookies 164 

Raisin Cookies 164 

Nut Cookies 164 

Molasses Crisps 164 

Lace Wafers 165 

Chocolate Indians 166 

Marguerites 166 

Almond Macaroons 166 



Penuchi... 201 

Mexican Kisses 202 

Caramels 202 

Salted Almonds 203 



^HAT TO ^ERVE AND ^/bw TO JeRVE IT 239 



COMPANY SUPPER 



Hot Dishes 

Oyster Chowder 68 

Lobster Bisque 66 

Cheese Dreams 74 

Cheese Souffle 74 

Welsh Rarebit : 75 

Eggs and Mushrooms en Casserole 80 

Egg Souffle 79 

Broiled Oysters 84 

Hollandaise Sauce 115 

Scalloped Oysters 85 

Soft Shell Crabs 54 

Fried Clams in Batter 55 



Fried Oysters 56 

Lobster Patties 213 

Shrimp Newburg 213 

Sweetbreads Bechamel 214 

Chicken Croquettes 53 

Artichokes Hollandaise 214 

Potato Surprise 59 

Asparagus Bearnaise 103 

Green Corn Fritters 105 

Stuffed Peppers, Baked 107 

Stuffed Tomatoes, Baked Ill 



Salads and Salad Accompaniments 

Fruit Salad, Pineapple Dressing. .215 Jellied Vegetable Salad 142 

Chicken Salad 140 Cheese Fingers 143 

Stuffed Tomato Salad 142 Cheese Straws 143 

Jellied Tuna Fish 142 Cheese Cream Puffs 143 

Breads 

Blueberry Tea Muffins 122 

Scotch Scones 124 

Shortcakes 124 

Popovers 124 

Butterscotch Rolls 127 

Waffles 128 



Sandwiches 

Chicken Salad Sandwich 146 

Club Sandwich 146 

Cakes and Pastry 

Meringue Cake 217 

Cream Puffs 217 

Eclairs 217 

Rolled Pecan Wafers 218 

Scotch Fans 219 

Hazelnut Cookies 219 



Coffee Cake 126 

Coffee Rolls 133 

Brioche 214 

Orange Biscuits 215 

Swedish Timbales 61 

Broiled Luncheon Sandwich 1 !6 



Lady Baltimore Cake 155 

Devils' Food Cake 157 

Chocolate Roll 162 

Filled Cup Cakes 163 

Filled Chocolate Cakes 163 

Filled Cookies 164 

French Crullers 51 



SCHOOL AND PICNIC 

Breads 

Bran Muffins 121 

Blueberry Tea Muffins 122 

Nut Bread for Sandwiches 125 

Steamed Brown Bread 125 

Raisin Brown Bread 125 



LUNCH BOX 



Raisin Rolls 127 

Butterscotch Rolls 127 

Parker House Rolls (yeast) 134 

Coffee Cake (yeasi; 133 



240 



The zAkt of Rooking and Serving 



SCHOOL AND PICNIC LUNCH BOX (Continued) 



Sandwiches 

Cheese and Pickle Sandwich 146 

Chicken Salad Sandwich 146 

Egg and Olive Sandwich 146 

Lettuce Sandwich 146 



Peanut Butter Sandwich 147 

Pickled Walnut and Cheese 

Sandwich 147 



Nut and Raisin Sandwich 147 Sardine Sandwich 147 



Cakes 

Ginger Cake 158 

Molasses Cake 159 

Cup Cakes 163 

Devils' Food Cake 157 

Sugar Cookies 163 

Chocolate Cookies 164 

Candy 

Popcorn Balls 203 

Molasses Mint Taffy 203 



Raisin Cookies 164 

Hermits 165 

Peanut Cookies 164 

Doughnuts 52 

French Crullers 51 



Chocolate Fudge. 201 

Sandwich Penuchi 202 



Roasting 



Kind of Food Temperature Time 

Beef — uncovered roaster. 

Rare 500° F. first 20 minutes 8-12 minutes per lb. 

reducing to 400° F. for 
. remaining time. 

Medium 500° F. first 20 minutes 12-15 minutes per lb. 

reducing to 400° F. for 
remaining time. 

Well done 500° F. first 20 minutes 15-20 minutes per lb. 

reducing to 400° F. for 
remaining time. 

Chicken 450° F. for 15 minutes 15 minutes per lb. 

reducing to 350° F. for 
remaining time. 

Lamb (leg) (shoulder). .460° F. for 15 minutes 15-20 minutes per lb. 

reducing to 350° F. for 
remaining time. 

Pork 460° F. for 15 minutes 20-25 minutes per lb. 

reducing to 350° F. for 
remaining time. 

Poultry 450° F. for 15 minutes 20-25 minutes per lb. 

reducing to 350° F. for 
remaining time. 

Veal 500° F. for 15 minutes 20-25 minutes per lb. 

reducing to 400° F. for 
remaining time. 



Broiling 



Chicken. Split in half 15-20 minutes 

Lamb Chops 10-12 minutes 

Shad, Bluefish, etc. (split for broiling) 18-20 minutes 

Steak 1 Rare 8-10 minutes 

1 inch thick J Well-done 10-15 minutes 

[2411 



Boiling 



Vegetables 

Asparagus 20-25 minutes 

Beans (Lima) 30-40 minutes 

Beans (string) 45-50 minutes 

Beets (young) 45 minutes (or more) 

Brussels Sprouts 20-25 minutes 

Cabbage (shredded or quartered) 15-20 minutes 

Carrots (young) 15-20 minutes 

Carrots (old) 30-40 minutes 

Cauliflower 20 minutes 

Corn (green) 15-20 minutes 

Kohlrabi 30-40 minutes 

Parsnips 30-40 minutes 

Peas (fresh) 20-30 minutes 

Potatoes 20-30 minutes 

Onions 30-40 minutes 

Spinach 15-20 minutes 

Squash (summer) 15-20 minutes 



Meat (Cook just below boiling point) 

Chicken per pound 15-20 minutes 

Corned Beef per pound 30-40 minutes 

Fowl per pound 20-30 minutes 

Ham per pound 18-20 minutes 

Mutton per pound 15 minutes 

Pot Roast per pound 35-40 minutes 



Fish 

Cod per pound 8-10 minutes 

Haddock per pound 10 minutes 

Halibut per pound 10-15 minutes 

Salmon per pound 10-15 minutes 

[242] 



Table of Equivalent Measures 

3 teaspoons = 1 tablespoon 
16 tablespoons =1 cup 

]/2 cup =1 gill 

2 cups =1 pint 

2 pints =1 quart 

4 quarts = 1 gallon 

Table of Weights and Measures 

21^ cups Crisco 1 pound 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 pound 

(2 tablespoons — 1 ounce) 

2 cups butter 1 pound 

(2 tablespoons — 1 ounce) 

4 cups flour 1 pound 

(4 tablespoons — 1 ounce) 

3 cups cornmeal 1 pound 

2 cups rice 1 pound 

2 cups dry beans 1 pound 

5 cups coffee (ground) 1 pound 

8 cups tea (dry leaves) 1 pound 

(2 ounces — 1 cup) 
1 cake (8 squares) chocolate Y2 pound 

4 cups cocoa (dry) 1 pound 

4 cups shelled walnuts 1 pound 

(1 pound walnuts in shell equals about Yl pound shelled) 
1 cup raisins or currants 1 pound 



Temperature Chart 

Very slow 225° to 250° 

Slow 250° to 300° 

Moderate 300° to 350° 

Hot 350° to 400° 

Quick 400° to 450° 

Very hot 450° to 550° 

Broil 600° 

[243 1 



INDEX 



Almonds, Salted 203 

Apple Gems 122 

Apple Rings, Fried 101 

Apple Sauce Cake 159 

Apple Pie (see Pies) 

Bananas, Fried SO 

Bananas, Fritters 50 

Beef (see Meats) 

Birthday Cake 218 

Breads, Quick, Introduction to 

Chapter 117 

Success Secrets 120 

Biscuits, Baking Powder 122 

Cheese 122 

Emergency 122 

Oatmeal 123 

Orange 215 

Sour Milk 123 

Sweet Potato 123 

Bread, Corn 124 

Nut. 125 

Raisin Brown 125 

Steamed Brown 125 

Spoon 125 

Whole Wheat Nut 125 

Coffee Cake 126 

Ring 126 

Griddle Cakes, Sour Milk 127 

Sweet Milk 127 

WholeWheat 127 

Muffin, Berry 121 

Blueberry Tea 122 

Bran 121 

Cornmeal 121 

Nut 121 

Plain 121 

Raisin 121 

Rice 121 

WholeWheat 121 

Gems, Apple 122 

Popovers 124 

Rolls, Butterscotch 127 

Dainty 126 

Raisin 127 

[244 



Rolls (Continued) 

Parker House 123 

Sally Lunn 122 

Scones, Scotch 124 

Shortcakes 124 

Waffles, Plain 128 

Cheese 128 

Breads, Yeast, Introduction to 

Chapter 129 

Success Secrets 131 

Bread (quick process) 132 

Bread (over night process) 132 

Raisin 132 

WholeWheat 133 

Rolls, Clover Leaf 134 

Coffee 133 

Dinner 134 

Parker House 134 

Brioche 214 

Coffee Cake 133 

Croustades 51 

Croutons 51 

Ciakes, Introduction to Chapter . . 149 

Success Secrets 152 

Almond 154 

Angel 162 

Apple Sauce 158 

Apple (Dutch) 190 

Birthday 218 

Bread Crumb 158 

Chocolate Roll 162 

Coffee Cake 126 

Coffee Fruit 158 

Cup 163 

Cup, Filled 163 

Filled Chocolate 163 

Date 157 

Devil's Food 157 

Featherweight 171 

Ginger 158 

Gold 155 

Graham Cracker 162 

Layer 154 

Lady Baltimore 155 



/NDEX (Continued) 



245 



Cakes (Continued) 

Marble 157 

Meringue 217 

Molasses 158 

Nut 154 

Orange 157 

Pound 158 

Quick 154 

Raisin 154 

Rich 153 

Snicker Doodles 158 

Sour Cream 163 

Spice (currant) 154 

Sponge 162 

Tea, Mother's 155 

Wedding 218 

Cake Fillings (see Fillings) 
Frostings (see Frostings) 
Canapes (see Sandwiches) 
Candy, Introduction to Chapter. .199 

Success Secrets 200 

Almonds, Salted 203 

Brittle, Cocoanut 202 

Maple Nut 202 

Caramels, Chocolate 202 

Vanilla 202 

Fudge, Chocolate 201 

Chocolate Cocoanut 201 

Chocolate Marshmallow 201 

Chocolate Nut 201 

Mexican Kisses 202 

Penuchi, Plain 201 

Sandwich 202 

Popcorn Balls 203 

Taffy, Molasses Mint 203 

Cereals, Introduction to Chapter. 70 

Success Secrets 70 

Breakfast, Chart for Cooking 

of 71 

Hominy, Fried 72 

Charts, How to Prepare for 

50 Persons 210 

Muffins 121 

Temperature 243 

White Sauce 113 

Cheese, Introduction to Chapter. . 70 

Success Secrets 70 

Balls 50 



Cheese (Continued) 

Biscuits 122 

Cream Puffs 143 

Dreams 74 

Fingers 143 

Fondue 74 

Mexican 74 

Rarebit, Welsh 74 

Ring-Tum-Diddy 74 

Souffle 74 

Straws 143 

Chop Suey, American Chicken. . . 99 
Pork Chop 99 

Chowders, Clam 68 

Corn 69 

Oyster 68 

Clams (see Fish) 

Coffee Ring 126 

Cookies, Introduction to Chapter. 149 

Success Secrets 152 

Almond Macaroons 166 

Chocolate 164 

Chocolate Indians 166 

Cocoanut 164 

Date Bars 165 

Filled 164 

Hazelnut 219 

Hermits 165 

Lace Wafers 165 

Marguerites 166 

Molasses Crisps 164 

Nut 164 

Oatmeal 165 

Peanut 164 

Pecan Wafers, Rolled 218 

Raisin 1(>4 

Sand Tarts 164 

Scotch Fans 219 

Spice 164 

Sugar 163 

Crabs (See Fish) 

Creams, Fried 51 

Croquettes, Chicken 

Egg 53 

Lamb 54 

Lobster 54 

Salmon 54 

Sweet Potato 60 

Veal 

Crullers, French 

Custards (see Desserts) 



246 



The ^Akt of Rooking and Serving 



Deep Fat Frying, Introduction 

to Chapter 44 

Success Secrets 48 

Desserts, Introduction to 

Chapter 188 

Success Secrets 189 

Cold 195 

Blanc Mange, Vanilla 194 

Chocolate. 195 

Cream, Bavarian 195 

Spanish 195 

Custards, Baked 194 

Boiled 193 

Cocoanut 194 

Macaroon 194 

Jelly, Lemon 195 

Meringue Cake 217 

Pineapple Dressing 216 

Puddings, Bread 191 

Chocolate Bread 191 

Mock Nesselrode 216 

Rice 192 

Hot, Chocolate Souffle 217 

Puddings, Blueberry 192 

Bread 191 

Chocolate Bread 191 

Brown Betty 193 

Chocolate, Steamed 192 

Cottage 189 

Chocolate Cottage 189 

Fruit Cottage 190 

Cranberry Roll 191 

Delights, Apple 190 

Dutch Apple Cake 190 

Fig, Steamed 193 

Grandmother's Apple 

Crow's Nest 190 

Indian, Baked 192 

Molasses, Steamed 192 

Peach Basket Turnover. . . 191 

Plum 194 

Plum, Mock 193 

Rice 192 

Roly-Poly 190 

Dessert Sauces, Chocolate, Hot.. .197 

Cocoanut 197 

Coffee 197 

Custard 197 

Foamy 197 

Lemon 197 



Desserts (Continued) 

Marshmallow, Hot 198 

Orange 197 

Doughnuts, Plain 52 

Raised 52 

Prune 52 

Jelly 53 

Duck, Roast 99 

Dumplings, Apple 179 

Berry 180 

Peach 180 

Steamed (for Stews) 101 

Eclairs 217 

Puffs, Cream 217 

Eggs, Introduction to Chapter. . . 76 

Success Secrets 76 

Baked in Cheese Sauce 80 

Baked with Tomato Sauce 80 

Croquettes 53 

Curried 79 

Devilled 79 

Fluff 79 

Fried 77 

Golden 79 

Omelet, Cheese 78 

French 78 

Jelly 78 

Puffy 78 

Spanish 78 

Scalloped 79 

Scrambled 77 

Shirred 78 

Souffle 79 

and Mushroom en Casserole. . . 80 

and Spinach en Casserole 80 

Equipment, Helpful Kitchen 34 

Fillings (Cake) 166 

Banana 170 

Chocolate 170 

Cream 170 

Coffee 170 

Fruit 170 

Lady Baltimore 167 

Lemon 170 

Orange 170 

Pineapple 171 

Fish, Introduction to Chapter. ... 81 
Success Secrets 82 



/NDEX (Continued) 



247 



Fish (Continued) 

Bluefish Planked 213 

Butterfish, Saute 83 

Clam Bisque 66 

Clams, Fried , 55 

Fried in Batter 55 

Fritters 55 

Cod, Boiled 83 

Creamed 83 

Fish Balls 55 

Saute 83 

Crabs, Soft Shell 54 

Eels, Fried 56 

Haddock, Stuffed 83 

Halibut, Steak 84 

Stuffed. 84 

Lobster Bisque 66 

Boiled 84 

Croquettes 54 

Patties 213 

Mackerel, Baked 84 

Oysters, Broiled 84 

Fried 56 

Fried in Batter 56 

Fritters 56 

Scalloped 85 

Pickerel", Fried 85 

Salmon, Boiled 85 

Broiled Steak 85 

Croquettes 54 

Scalloped 85 

Sauces (see Sauces) 

Scallops, Fried 56 

Shad, Broiled 86 

Shad Roe, Broiled 86 

Shrimp and Rice Baked 86 

Newburg 213 

Smelts, Fried 57 

Sole, Fillet of 86 

Weakfish 86 

Fritters, Apple 50 

Banana 50 

Clam 55 

Orange 50 

Oyster 56 

Peach or Apricot 50 

Pineapple 50 

Potato 60 

Vegetable 57 

Frostings, Almond 169 

Apple Snow 168 



Frostings (Continued) 

Banana 170 

Boiled 1 166 

Boiled II 167 

Brown Sugar 166 

Caramel 168 

Chocolate 167,169 

Cocoanut Marshmallow 167 

Confectioners' 169 

Cream Maple 168 

Creamy Chocolate 168 

For Snicker Doodles 158 

Fudge 168 

Honey 167 

Lady Baltimore 167 

Lemon 169 

Maple Sugar 167 

Marshmallow 169 

Mocha 169 

Orange 1 169 

Orange II 169 

Ornamental 167 

Quick 168 

vxoose, Roast 99 

Griddle Cakes, Sour Milk 127 

Sweet Milk 127 

WholeWheat 127 

Hearts, Beef, Stuffed 96 

Helpful Cooking Equipment 34 

Hominy, Fried 72 

How to Prepare for Fifty Persons. 2 10 
How to Plan Your Meals 39 

Ice Creams, Chocolate 196 

Coffee 196 

French 196 

Vanilla 196 

Mousse, Chocolate 216 

Coffee 216 

Fruit 216 

Ices, Lemon 195 

Orange 195 

Pineapple Sherbet 196 

Internal Organs (see Meats) 

J elly, Lemon 195 

Jvidneys, Beef Stew 96 

Lamb, Sauteed 97 



248 The zArt of Rooking and Serving 



•Lamb (see Meats) 

Left-Overs, Beef, Scalloped 91 

Cauliflower au Gratin 105 

Chicken Croquettes 53 

Chicken Salad Sandwich 146 

Club 146 

Codfish Balls 55 

Creamed Beef on Toast 91 

Fried Hominy 72 

Fried Rice Cakes 60 

Fritters, Vegetable 57 

Hash 91 

Lamb Croquettes 54 

Lamb en Casserole 92 

Lamb Minced on Toast 93 

Lamb Scalloped 92 

Macaroni and Chipped Beef. . . 72 

Macedoine, Baked 106 

Noodles Baked with Cheese 

and Ham 72 

Potatoes au Gratin 107 

Rice au Gratin 73 

Salmon Croquettes 54 

Samp and Cheese Baked with 

Tomato Sauce 73 

Shepherd's Pie 93 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 60 

Tomatoes en Casserole Ill 

Veal Croquettes 54 

Veal Souffle 94 

Liver, Calves' (see Meats) 

Lobster (see Fish) 

Macaroni, Boiled 72 

with Chipped Beef en Casserole. 72 

Meals, How to Plan Your 39 

Meats, Introduction to Chapter. . 87 

Success Secrets 88 

Accompaniments, Dumplings . . 101 

Fried Apple Rings 101 

Giblet Gravy 100 

Yorkshire Pudding 101 

Beef, Braised 89 

Creamed on Toast 91 

Cutlets 53 

Hamburg Balls 90 

Hash : 91 

Pot Roast a la Mode 89 

Roast 88 

Scalloped 91 



Meats, Beef (Continued) 

Stew 89 

Steak, Beefsteak Pie 90 

Rolled Flank 89 

Swiss 90 

Planked 213 

Internal Organs 96 

Beef, Heart, Stuffed en Cas- 
serole 96 

Calves' Liver, French Fried.. 57 

Calves' Liver, Braised 97 

Kidney Stew 96 

Lamb, Kidneys, Sauteed. ... 97 

Sweetbreads, Bechamel 214 

Sweetbreads, Breaded 97 

Tongue, Boiled 97 

Lamb, Croquettes 54 

Curried with Rice 92 

en Casserole 92 

Leg, Roast 91 

Minced on Toast 93 

Scalloped 92 

Shepherd's Pie 93 

Stew, Irish 92 

Stuffed Shoulder 91 

Mutton, Boiled Leg of 93 

Pork, Chop Suey, American 99 

Chops, en Casserole 95 

Crown Roast 94 

Ham, Baked Virginia 96 

Broiled 96 

Souffle 96 

Sausages and Sweet Potatoes. 95 

Sausage Turnovers 95 

Tenderloin, Stuffed 95 

Poultry (see Poultry) 

Veal, Croquettes 54 

Curried with Rice 94 

Cutlets 93 

Loaf 93 

Pie 94 

Souffle 94 

Stuffed, Roast 93 

Sauces (see Sauces) 
Stuffings (see Stuffings) 
Menus, Seasonable 220 

for Special Occasions 232 

Mousse (see Ice Creams) 

Muffins, Apple Gems 122 

Berry 121 

Blueberry Tea 122 



/NDEX (Continued) 



249 



Muffins (Continued) 

Bran 121 

Cornmeal 121 

Nut 121 

Plain 121 

Raisin 121 

Rice 121 

Sally Lunns 122 

WholeWheat 121 

Mutton, Boiled Leg of (see Meats) 

Noodles, Baked with Cheese 

and Ham 72 

Omelets (see Eggs) 

One Dish Meals, Beef Hearts 

Stuffed en Casserole 96 

Eggs and Mushrooms en Cas- 
serole 80 

Eggs and Spinach en Casserole. . 80 

Eggs Baked with Cheese 80 

Eggs Baked with Tomato 

Sauce. 80 

Macaroni and Chipped Beef en 

Casserole 72 

Macedoine, Baked 106 

Mexican Cheese 74 

Noodles, Baked with Cheese 

and Ham 72 

Pork Chops en Casserole 95 

Samp, Baked with Cheese and 

Tomato Sauce 73 

Sandwich, Broiled Luncheon. . .146 

Sandwich, Club 146 

Shrimp and Rice 86 

Spaghetti, Italian 73 

Tomatoes, Baked, en Casserole. Ill 
Oysters (see Fish) 

i ancakes (see Griddle Cakes) 

Pastry, Introduction to Chapter.. 172 

Success Secrets 174 

Danish 178 

Flaky 179 

Plain 178 

Puff 179 

Patty Shells 179 

Tart Shells 179 

Cream Puffs 217 



Pastry (Continued) 

Dumplings (see Dumplings) 

Eclairs 217 

Tarts (see Tarts) 

Tea Pastries (see Tea Pastries) 

Pies, Apple (covered) 180 

Apple (one crust) 180 

Blueberry 181 

Chocolate 181 

Chocolate Cream 181 

Cobblestone 180 

Cocoanut Custard 182 

Cream 182 

Custard 182 

Deep Dish Huckleberry 182 

Fried 53 

Lemon Meringue 182 

Mince 183 

Mincemeat 183 

Mock Cherry 183 

Orange 184 

Peach 183 

Pineapple 184 

Pumpkin 184 

Rhubarb 184 

Popovers 124 

Pork (see Meats) 

Potatoes (see Vegetables) 

Poultry, Introduction to Chapter 87 

Success Secrets 88 

Accompaniments, Dumplings. . 101 

Giblet Gravy 100 

Capon, Roast 98 

Chicken, Chop Suey 99 

Croquettes 53 

Fried 98 

Fricassee 98 

Pie 98 

Pot Pie 99 

Roast 98 

Duck, Roast 99 

Goose, Roast 99 

Turkey, Roast 100 

Stuffing (see Stuffing) 
Puddings (see Desserts) 

Yorkshire 101 

Quantity Cooking, Large, Intro- 
duction to Chapter 204 

Success Secrets 205 



250 The ?^rt of Rooking and Serving 



Quantity Cooking (Continued) 

Apple Pies 208 

Beans, Baked 206 

Biscuits, Baking Powder 208 

Cake, Chocolate 208 

Chicken a la King 207 

Chicken Salad 207 

Chocolate for 100 Persons 210 

Cocoa for 100 Persons 209 

Coffee for 100 Persons 209 

Cornbread, Southern 208 

Ginger Snaps 209 

How to Prepare for Fifty Persons,210 

Macaroni and Cheese 206 

Potatoes, Mashed 206 

Potato Salad 207 

Salad Dressing, Boiled 207 

Sauce, White 206 

Soup, Vegetable 205 

rvarebit, Welsh (see Cheese) 

Rice, au Gratin 73 

Boiled.... 72 

Cakes, Fried 60 

Steamed 72 

Rolls (see Breads) 

Oalads, Introduction to Chapter. 136 

Success Secrets 138 

Accompaniments, Cheese Straws 143 

Cheese Cream Puffs 143 

Cheese Fingers 143 

Asparagus 140 

Chicken 140 

Fruit 215 

Ham 141 

Jellied Tomato 142 

Jellied Tuna 142 

Jellied Vegetable 142 

Macedoine 141 

Potato 141 

Russian Egg 140 

Salmon 141 

Stuffed Tomato 142 

Waldorf 143 

Salad Dressing, Cooked 139 

Celery. 139 

Horseradish 139 

Tarragon 139 

Whipped Cream 139 



Salad Dressing, French 139 

Chiffonade 139 

Curry 139 

Lemon 139 

Thousand Island 139 

Salad Dressing, Mayonnaise 140 

Cucumber 140 

Fruit 140 

Piquante 140 

Red. 140 

Russian 140 

Tartar 140 

Pineapple 216 

Sally Lunn 122 

Samp and Cheese Baked with 

Tomato Sauce 73 

Sandwiches, Introduction to 

Chapter 144 

Success Secrets 145 

Broiled Luncheon 146 

Canape, Caviar 147 

Cheese and Olive 147 

Diagonal 147 

Supreme 147 

Cheese and Pickle 146 

Chicken Salad 146 

Club 146 

Crisco Sandwich Spread 145 

Egg and Olive 146 

Hot Ham 146 

Lettuce 146 

Nut and Raisin 147 

Peanut Butter 147 

Sardine 147 

Walnut (pickled) and Cheese.. 147 

Wide Open.... 147 

Sauces, Introduction to Chapter. .112 

Success Secrets 113 

For Meat, Fish and Vegetables. 113 

Almond and Raisin 114 

Bearnaise 114 

Caper 114 

Cheese 114 

Cucumber 115 

Egg 115 

Giblet Gravy 100 

Hollandaise 115 

Hollandaise, Mock 115 

Horseradish 139 

Mushroom 115 

Parsley 115 



INDEX (Continued) 



251 



Sauces for Meats, etc. (Continued) 

Spanish 116 

Tartar 140 

Tomato 116 

White, Chart for 113 

Uses for 114 

For Desserts and Ice Creams. . 197 

Chocolate (hot). 197 

Cocoanut 197 

Coffee 197 

Custard 197 

Foamy 197 

Lemon 197 

Marshmallow (hot) 198 

Orange 197 

For Soups 64 

Scallops 56 

Scones, Scotch 124 

Shortcakes 124 

Soups, Introduction to Chapter. . 62 

Success Secrets 64 

Black Bean ' 67 

Bouillon 66 

Chicken 67 

Clam Bisque 66 

Clam Chowder 68 

Consomme 66 

Corn Chowder 69 

Cream Soups, Asparagus 65 

Cauliflower 65 

Celery 65 

Corn 65 

Mushroom 65 

Onion 65 

Pea 65 

Potato 65 

Spinach 65 

Tomato 65 

Watercress 65 

German Vegetable 68 

Lobster Bisque 66 

Oyster Chowder 68 

Sauces for 64 

Split Pea. 68 

Tomato Puree 67 

Spaghetti, Baked 73 

Italian 73 

Stuffing, Celery and Olive 100 

Chestnut 100 

Oyster 100 



Stuffing (Continued) 

Peanut 100 

Poultry 100 

Sweetbreads, Bechamel 214 

Specialty Dishes, Introduction to 
Chapter 212 

1 able Service in The Servantless 

House 1 

Table Service in The House 

with a Servant 25 

Table of Equivalent Measures.. . .243 
Table of Weights and Measures. . 245 

Tarts, Apricot 185 

Banbury 185 

Butterscotch 185 

Fried Banbury 185 

Gooseberry 186 

Peach 186 

Sand... 164 

Tea Pastries, Cocoanut Date 

Strips 186 

Fruit Pastries 186 

Peanut Cream 186 

Pumpkin Fanchonettes 187 

Temperature Chart 243 

Timbales, Swedish 61 

Time Tables for Cooking 

Meats 241,242 

Cereals 69 

Fish 241,242 

Vegetables 242 

Tongue, Beef 97 

Turkey 100 

Vegetables, Introduction to 

Chapter 102 

Success Secrets 103 

Artichokes, Hollandaise 214 

Asparagus, Bearnaise 103 

Beans, Baked 103 

String 104 

Beets, Piquante 104 

Brussels Sprouts 104 

Cabbage, Plain 104 

Different 104 

Scalloped 104 

Carrots, Creamed 114 

Fried 

Steamed 105 



252 



The *Art of Rooking and ^erving 



Vegetables (Continued) 

Cauliflower au Gratin 105 

Creamed 114 

Celery, Creamed 105 

Corn, Baked 105 

Fritters 105 

Cream Sauce for Vege- 
tables 113,114 

Cucumbers, Sweet and Sour. . . 106 

Eggplant au Gratin 106 

Fried 106 

Fritters 57 

Hominy, Fried 72 

Kohlrabi..... 106 

Macaroni, Boiled 72 

Macedoine, Baked 106 

Onions, Creamed 114 

French Fried 57 

Stuffed 107 

Saute. 107 

Parsnips, Puffs 60 

Saute 107 

Peppers, Stuffed 107 

Potatoes, au Gratin 107 

Baked 108 

Cakes 109 

Chips, Saratoga 59 

Creamed 114 

Duchess. 108 

Franconia 108 

French Fried 59 

Fritters 60 

German Fried 108 

Hashed Brown 108 

Julienne 59 

Lyonnaise 108 

Mashed 109 

Parsley 108 



Vegetables (Continued) 

Puffs 59 

Scalloped 109 

Shoestring 59 

Souffle 109 

Stuffed Baked 109 

Surprise 59 

Potatoes, Sweet, Croquettes 60 

French Fried 60 

Glace 110 

Southern Style 110 

Rice, au Gratin 73 

Boiled.. 72 

Fried Rice Cakes 60 

Steamed 72 

Samp 73 

Spaghetti, Baked 73 

Italian 73 

Spinach and Egg 110 

Squash, Baked 110 

Saute Ill 

Tomatoes, Baked Stuffed Ill 

Baked en Casserole Ill 

Fried, Cream Gravy Ill 

Turnips, Fluffy Yellow Ill 

Veal (see Meats) 

Waffles, Plain 128 

Cheese 128 

Wedding Cake 218 

Weights and Measures 228 

Welsh Rarebit 75 

White Sauce, Chart for 113 

For Soups 64 

X east Breads (see Breads) 
Yorkshire Pudding 101 



