IMHT 

jjtrt, \fthz m Scfoook 



FIFTH EDITION 






ft 




PREPARED BY DEPARTMENT OF HOME ECONOMICS 

NATIONAL LIVE STOCK AND MEAT BOARD 



f 



From the collection of the 



n 
z m 



o PreTinger 

v Jjibrary 

p 



San Francisco, California 
2008 



Ten JLe/dAoi/i/jL OVl 

I1IHHT 



FIFTH EDITION 






Published by the 

National Live Stock and Meat Board 

Department of Home Economics 

407 South Dearborn Street 

Chicago, Illinois 

Copyright, 1940 
National Live Stock and Meat Board 



cJable of (contents 



LESSON PAGE 

I. Meat, Physical Structure and Chemical Composition 1 

II. The Nutritive Value of Meat 7 

III. Feeding the Family for Health 20 

IV. Identification and Selection of Meat 30 

V. Methods of Meat Cookery — Roasting ■_ 54 

VI. Methods of Meat Cookery — Broiling and Panbroiling . 67 

VII. Methods of Meat Cookery — Braising 75 

VIII. Methods of Meat Cookery — Stewing and Simmering 82 

IX. Meat Specialties. Lard, and Sausage 91 

X. The Art of Carving -102 

National Live Stock and Meat Board 122 





INERT 

LESSON NUMBER ONE 

TYleat — [Physical Structure and Chemical Composition 



MEAT is the flesh of any animal used for food. In the broad use of the 
term this includes the flesh of fish, shellfish, poultry, and game, as 
well as that of mammals, but in commonly accepted usage meat applies 
only to the edible parts of mammals raised for food. A cut of meat as 
it comes from the meat market includes muscle tissue, connective tissue, 
fat, and bone. Edible glands and organs also are classed as meat. The 
kinds of meat are: (1) Beef from cattle, (2) veal from calf, (3) pork 
from hog, and (4) lamb and mutton from sheep. 

The Structure of Meat 

An understanding of the structure of meat is important to an under- 
standing of the methods used in cooking. 

Muscles. Muscles are of two types: (1) The striated or voluntary 
and (2) the smooth or involuntary. The heart muscle is striated, but 
involuntary and sometimes is classed as a third type or striated cardiac 
muscle. Skeletal muscles vary in length, in depth, and in thickness. Each 
muscle is surrounded by connective tissue which is called the epirnysium 
or muscle sheath, which may vary in thickness over different parts of the 
muscle. Some muscles taper at the end or ends and are attached to the 
bones by tendons; others spread out or dwindle near the end and are 
attached to the bones by bursas, tendonous sheaths. 

The muscle is composed of bundles of fibers or muscle cells held 
together by connective tissue. These bundles are called fasciculi and the 
surrounding connective tissue is the perimysium. The size of the bundles 
varies in different muscles in the same animal and in different species. The 
thickness of the fiber, the size of each fasciculus, and the connective tissue 



2 TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 

binding them determine the grain of the meat. When the fibers and the 
bundles are small, the meat has a fine grain. 

The muscle fibers which make up the bundles are elongated, multinucle- 
ated cells which have an outer covering known as the sarcolemma. These 
cells vary in size but have an average length of about one inch and an 
average diameter of about 0.05 inch. Age, sex, and fattening change the 
appearance of the muscle cells. 

Connective tissue. The connective tissue which forms the walls of the 
muscle fiber, which binds the muscle fibers into bundles, which surrounds 
the muscles, and which makes up the tendons and ligaments is of two 
kinds — the yellow and the white. Yellow connective tissue is composed 
chiefly of the protein, elastin, which is not made tender in cooking. An 
example of yellow connective tissue is the ligament which runs from the 
head along the backbone. It may be observed in a cut from the chuck rib 
or the rib. White connective tissue is composed largely of the protein, 
collagen, which is softened and made tender by cooking. The total amount 
of connective tissue in a cut depends upon the exercise which the muscles 
have received and upon the age of the animal. Exercise and age increase 
the amount of connective tissue. In the lessons on methods of meat cookery, 
it will be seen that connective tissue determines to a great extent the method 
of cooking, because the amount and character of the connective tissue are 
related to the tenderness of the cut. 

Fat. All meat contains fat. It forms an exterior covering. It is deposited 
between muscles; between bundles of fibers; between cells or within the cells. 
Some of it is stored in quantities large enough to be seen, as in the external 
covering, and in deposits around the heart and kidney. Some of it is dis- 
tributed in very minute particles throughout the muscles or the lean. This 
intermingling of fat and lean is called marbling. Fat increases flavor and 
helps to retain the moisture of the muscles. 

Effect of fattening on physical composition. Lean, fat, and bone are 
(he constituents making up the physical composition. The relative propor- 
tions of these three constituents change as the animal puts on fat. The per- 
centage of lean and bone decreases and the percentage of fat increases. With 
this decrease in percentage of bone, the edible portion of the cut is greater. 
For example, the bone in the rib cut from a very lean animal has been 
shown to be about 25 per cent as contrasted to about 14 per cent in the rib 
cut from a very fat animal. 

Not only does fattening increase the edible portion, but there is a tendency 
for the more-demanded cuts to increase and the less-demanded to decrease. 
(See Table 1.) The deposit of external, internal, and marbling fat increases 
not only the w r eight of various cuts, but it also improves flavor and quality, 
making the meat juicier and tenderer. A well-finished (well-fatted) animal 
will yield a higher percentage of rib and loin. Table 1 shows that well- 
fatted beef animals produce 31.3 per cent rib and loin as contrasted with 



STRUCTURE A ND COM POSITION 3 

27.2 per cent from a thin animal. Commercially, the well-finished animal 
is more valuable than one with little finish. 

Relation of structure to tenderness. Tenderness is one of the factors 
by which palatability of meat is judged; and tenderness is determined by 
structure. Some cuts of meat are tender and have a fine grain; others are 
less tender and are coarser in grain. Tenderness is influenced by the age 
of the animal, the amount and character of the connective tissues, and the 
deposition of fat within the muscles, within the bundles of fibers, or within 
the cells. The muscles of the neck, legs, shoulders, and around the joints 
are from those parts of the animal which received the most exercise and. 
consequently, these muscles have developed thickened cell walls and denser 
connective tissue. 

At the same time, however, these muscles have developed a large amount 
of extractives, the flavor substances in meat. 

The condition of the animal, that is in the degree of finish, is another 
factor related to tenderness and texture of the meat. The meat from a well- 
finished animal is superior to that of one lacking in finish. The less-tender 



Table 1 — Yield of Standard Wholesale Cuts 1 of Beef in Percentage 
of Carcass, According to Commercial Grade" 1 



Cuts 



Fore quarter 

Chuck and necks . 
Trimmed chuck 
Neck 

Plate and brisket . 

Fore shank 

Rib 



Hind quarter 

Whole round 

Rump 

Round 

Hind shank 

Whole loin 

Loin — loin end and short loin. 

kidney knob 

Kidney 

Kidney fat 

Flunk 



Common 



Per Cent 

51.5 

27.7 
26.1 

1.6 
10.2 

4.9 

8.7 

48.5 
27.2 

3.2 
20.1 

3.9 
18.5 
17.2 

1.3 

0.4 

0.9 

2 H 



Medium 



Per Cent 

51.5 
26.4 
25.0 

1.4 
11.5 

4.6 

9.0 

48.5 
25 I 

3.5 
18.4 

3.5 
19.6 
17.4 



Good 



Per Cent 

51.5 

25.4 
24.1 

1.3 
12.6 

4.3 

9.2 



48.5 

24.1 

3.7 

17.1 

3.3 

20 . 5 

17.7 

2.8 

0.3 

2.5 

3 9 



Choice 

and 
Prime 



Per Cent 

51 . 5 
23.6 
22.5 
"l.l 
14.4 

3.9 

9.6 

48.5 
22.0 

4.0 
15.2 

2.8 
21.7 
18.0 

3.7 

0.3 

3.4 

4.8 



These figures prepared by the Bureau of Home Economics of the United States 
Department of Agriculture are based on data from the Missouri and Illinois Agri- 
cultural Experiment stations. 

1 Standard Chicago Cuts. 

2 Figures refer to typical animals from each grade. 

3 Shoulder clod is included. 



4 TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 

cuts from a high grade carcass may be more desirable than the so-called 
select cuts from a low grade carcass. 

It should be pointed out that the less-tender cuts may be made tender and 
palatable by proper methods of cooking. It is equally possible to ruin the 
tenderest cut by the wrong method. These points will be discussed in detail 
in the lessons dealing with the specific methods of meat cookery. 

Composition of Meat 

The nutritive value of meat depends upon its food constituents. Meat 
contains proteins, fats, inorganic constituents (minerals), carbohydrates, 
nitrogenous and non-nitrogenous extractives, pigments, enzymes, vitamins, 
and water. 

Protein. Protein is one of the most important constituents of muscle. 
For this reason meat is classed among the best sources of protein. The 
amount of protein in any particular cut varies, especially with a change in 
fat content. As the fat increases, the percentage of protein in relation to the 
whole cut decreases. Usually 15 to 20 per cent of the edible portion is protein. 

There are two types of protein in meat: (1) Protoplasmic or muscle cell 
proteins, myosin and myogen and (2) connective tissue proteins, collagen 
and elastin. The proteins of the plasma are often called soluble proteins 
because they are soluble in certain concentrations of salt solution. They are 
coagulated by heat. The insoluble proteins form about 15 to 20 per cent of 
the proteins of meat. 

Muscle cell proteins contain all of the amino-acids needed for tissue build- 
ing. The connective tissues lack certain important amino-acids and so are 
called incomplete proteins. Gelatin, which is obtained from collagen by 
hydrolysis, is completely lacking in two essential amino-acids and contains 
two others in amounts too small for good nutrition, hence gelatin is an 
incomplete protein. 

Fats. The amount of fat varies in different cuts from the same animal 
and in the same cuts from different animals. It is difficult, therefore, to give 
the exact percentage of fat in any one cut, but the fat content of meat cuts 
probably would be included in a range of 5 to 30 per cent. Fat is found in 
the cell nuclei and the fluids of the cells as lipoid substances, sterols, and the 
more unsaturated fatty acids. These are important in cell metabolism. 

Minerals. Meat contains most of the minerals needed for good nutrition. 
It is rich in iron and in phosphorus. It is low in calcium, although there is 
some evidence that if the bone is cooked and served with the meat, the avail- 
able calcium is greater. Copper also is present in meat, especially liver, 
though the amount is small. Sodium chloride is present in meat and this is 
the inorganic salt which is predominate from the standpoint of flavor. The 
charts on pages 12, 14, and 17 list common foods in the order of their 
importance as sources of calcium, phosphorus, and iron. 



STRUCTURE AND COMPOSITION 5 

Carbohydrates. The carbohydrate found in muscle tissue is glycogen. 
which is stored chiefly in the liver. 

Non-nitrogenous extractives. Lactic acid, from the standpoint of 
amount found in the muscles, is the most important non-nitrogenous extrac- 
tive. Glycogen is changed to lactic acid. After meat is dressed, the quantity 
of lactic increases because the change from glycogen to lactic acid is not 
reversible, as it is in living muscle. 

Nitrogenous extractives. The muscles contain nitrogenous extractives in 
varying amounts and of varying quality, dependent upon the age, exercise, 
feeding, and species of the animal. These are end-products of protein 
metabolism such as creatine, creatinine, purines, and other products. The 
distinctive flavor of meat is due to these products. The flavor is more pro- 
nounced in meat from mature animals. The difference in flavor between 
veal (from a young animal) and beef (from a mature animal) illustrates 
the effect of age on the quality and quantity of the extractives. Different 
cuts from the same carcass vary in flavor. The greatly exercised muscles 
are especially rich in extractives. A well-finished piece of meat will contain 
more extractives than one of poor finish. Pork is lacking in extractives, the 
flavoring substances being present in the fat rather than in the muscles. This 
is an example of how different species vary in nitrogenous extractives. 

Pigments. The pink or red color of meat is due to the hemoglobin of 
the blood still present in the tissues and to the hemoglobin of the muscle. An 
older animal will have more muscle hemoglobin than a young one. This is 
the reason beef is darker than veal. Some muscles from the same animal may 
contain more hemoglobin than others. The amount of muscle hemoglobin 
differs with the species — pork muscle containing less than beef, for example. 

When first cut, beef will be dark purplish-red. After exposure to the air, 
the cut surface will become bright red. This color change is due to the oxi- 
dation of the hemoglobin to oxyhemoglobin. After a period of time the 
color of the meat becomes dark again. 

Enzymes, alkalies, acids, and heat act upon hemoglobin and oxy- 
hemoglobin and various decomposition products are formed. Hematin is 
one of these products formed by heat. The changes in color during cooking 
are due to the effect of heat on the pigments. Oxyhemoglobin is coagulated 
around 64° Centigrade — beef cooked to this temperature is considered 
medium. When cooked beyond this point, hematin is produced, bringing 
about the grayish-brown color of well-done meat. 

In beef which has been ripened the change in color usually occurs at a 
lower temperature. According to Lowe, 1 this may be due to the fact that 
enzymes and acid have acted on the hemoglobin so that hematin is formed at 
lower temperatures. 



1 Lowe, Belle, Experimental Cookery, John Wiley and Sons. 



6 TENLESSONSONMEAT 

Vitamins. Vitamin A is found in the fat of meat and especially in liver. 
Factors of the vitamin B complex are found abundantly in meat. 

Enzymes. Ferments or enzymes are found in meat. Among these are 
proteolytic enzymes which act on protein ; the amyloytic enzymes which act 
on carbohydrates, and the lipolytic enzymes which act on fats. The action 
of the enzymes continues during storage and brings about many desirable 
changes in dressed meat. 

Ripening. For example, the action of proteolytic enzymes on proteins 
is in part responsible for the increased tenderness and juiciness of ripened 
meat. Ripening or aging of meat is brought about by hanging in cold storage 
for a period of time, at a temperature of about 36° Fahrenheit and with a 
fairly low relative humidity so that the surface of the meat will dry out. In 
general practice, beef is the only kind of meat which is ripened. For this 
purpose ribs, loins, and hind quarters of well-finished beef are used. Some 
consumers prefer lamb which has been aged. Pork, on the other hand, is 
preferred not ripened. Veal does not possess the fat necessary for ripening. 

The extent to which meat is ripened depends upon personal preference. 
Unless a "high" flavor is liked, 15 to 20 days will produce the desired flavor 
and tenderness. Experiments carried on by the United States Department of 
Agriculture showed that holding lamb in cold storage from 7 to 10 days 
increased tenderness, but further storage added little to the tenderness and 
a storage of more than 20 days decreased tenderness. 

Ripening is responsible for certain differences in cooking as well as in the 
cooked product. 

Lowe 1 reports that roasts cooked to an internal temperature of 135° 
Fahrenheit were bright red when held from 5 to 10 days; but roasts held in 
storage from 10 to 60 days became increasingly grayer. After 60 days there 
was little or no red color in the roast when cooked. 

The worker found also that both fat and lean of ripened roasts brown more 
readily during cooking than unripened roasts. 

Alexander and Clark 2 found that legs of lamb which had been ripened 
showed less shrinkage and also cooked in less time than unripened legs. 

Water. All meats contain water. According to Moulton," the lean of 
beef contains about 73 per cent water. The water content of a side of beef 
varies with degree of fatness. According to Chatfield 4 , this variation is 
from 47 per cent in very fat beef to 66 per cent in very thin beef. 



1 Lowe, Belle. Experimental Cookery, John Wiley and Sons. 

2 Alexander, Lucy M., and Clark, Nancy Griswold, Shrinkage and Heat Penetration 
During the Roasting of Lamb and Mutton as Influenced by Carcass Grade, Ripening 
Period, and Cooking Method. Technical Bulletin No. 440, United States Department of 
Agriculture (1934). 

-MoiLTON, Robert. Meat Through the Microscope, University of Chicago Press, 
Chicago (1929). 

4 Chatfield, Charlotte, Proximate Composition of Beef, Circular 389 (1926). 



IHgi LESSON NUMBER TWO 



m 



of lie I lutrittve Value of 1 1 teat 



THE BODY is made up of many chemical elements which are being used 
up constantly and so, if health is to be maintained, they must as con- 
stantly be replaced. A diet which supplies all of the essential elements in tho 
right proportion to meet the needs of the body without overworking any 
part of it is known as an adequate or normal diet. 

The adequate diet will provide a sufficient supply of: 

Protein for building and repairing body tissue. 

Calories for heat and energy. 

Minerals for building bones, teeth, blood, etc.. and for regulating the 
processes of the body. 

Vitamins for promoting growth and protecting health. 

Bulk for aiding in the elimination of body waste. 

What does meat contribute to the adequate diet? What essential ele- 
ments does meat furnish to replace those used up by the body? In study- 
ing the chemical constituents which enter into the composition of meat, the 
role it plays in good nutrition will be understood. 

Meat Proteins 

Protein comes from the Greek word, proteios, meaning "holding first 
place." Hence, by its very definition the importance of protein foods is 
shown. Protein is essential to all life, both plant and animal. Life cannot 
exist without it. Plants are able to build their protein from air, sunshine, 
and soil, but animal bodies cannot do this; they must depend upon their 
food to furnish the proteins necessary for building, repairing, and main- 
taining body tissues. The characteristic constituent of meat is protein: 
hence the first contribution which meat makes to the adequate diet is 
protein for building and repairing body tissues. 

Essential amino-acitls. Proteins are made up of different combinations 
of amino-acids. Many of these may be synthesized, or manufactured, by the 
body, provided the food supplies the necessary elements. Others cannot: 
these are called essential amino-acids and must be furnished bv the foods 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 



PROTEIN 



SELECTED 
SERVING n /.. 

u,t>iefbrt,ons yua/ily 
4oz •••" 



RELATIVE AMOUNT of PROTEIN 




it * it GOOD QUAIITX PROTEIN 

if.-k FAIR QUALITX PROTEIN 

if POOR QUALITX PROTEIN 



Fig. 1. 



NUTRITIVE VALUE OF MEAT 



FINAL PROTEIN VALUES OF A SERVING OF SOME COMMON FOODS* 



l l moTtiN commit* Twrooo 

V7Z\ POOTIIN DICtfTIO 

ES3J POOTIIN USIO BKXOGKALVAU* 

■Mi r IN Al POOTIIN VAUUf 



CALCULATED FROM FIGURES 

TAKEN FROM 

THE BIO<MEMI5TRYOF THE AMINO ACIDS' 

HHMITCHEU I TS.HAMILTON 




Fic. 2. 



which contain them. Proteins containing essential amino-acids are superior 
to those which do not and are said to be of higher biological value. 

Biological value of meat proteins. The chart on page 8 shows that, 
from the standpoint of quantity, meat furnishes more protein per average 
serving than any other class of foodstuffs. But even more important is the 
fact that meat proteins are of high biological value. This means, simply, 
that meat proteins are efficient in building and repairing body tissues. As 
was pointed out in Lesson One, the muscle proteins of meat are complete 
proteins. They contain all the amino-acids, sometimes called "building 
stones," which are essential to good growth, and these amino-acids appear 
to be in approximately the proper proportion for good nutrition. Vege- 
table proteins, on the other hand, have been shown to be lacking in 
essential amino-acids. It was formerly taught that peas and beans could 
be substituted for meat, but it has been found that these two legumes furnish 
protein of low biological value. The belief, therefore, that all proteins, 
regardless of their source, are equal in value is no longer held. Mitchell 1 
makes this point clear in the following statement: 

"Even vegetable foods such as dried (navy) beans and cocoa, which are relatively rich 
in crude protein, are unimportant as sources of protein because of the enormous losses 
of nitrogen in the course of their utilization in digestion, or in metabolism, or both. 
Their high content of protein is deceptive and the conclusion that such foods are 'meat 
substitutes,' though frequently heard, must be considered erroneous. 

"Among animal foods it is evident that meats and meat products are preeminent as 



1 MITCHELL, II. II.. Protein Values in Nutrition, Journal of Home Economics. March. 
1927. 



Ill 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 



CALORIES 



SELECTED 

SERVING 
Edible Pari 'ioii. 

4oz 402 



RELATIVE NUMBER of CALORIES 




Fig. 3. 



NUTRITIVE VALUE OF MEAT 11 

BOurces of protein. Although the biological value of animal tissue proteins (nitrogen) 
is appreciably lower than those of eggs or milk, the higher content of proteins in animal 
tissues, either on the fresh or dry basis offsets or more than offsets their greater Losses in 
metabolism." 

The chart at the top of page 9, based on figures taken from Mitchell 1 , 
shows the marked superiority of animal proteins over vegetable proteins. 
The first column (white) shows the grams of protein in one serving of the 
food; the second column (light bars) the amount digested; the third column 
(heavy bars) the amount utilized; and the last column (black) the amount 
after allowances have been made for all possible losses, thus giving the final 
protein value. Although vegetables may have a high protein content, as in the 
case of navy beans and cocoa, they are less valuable as sources of protein 
because their proteins are not well utilized by the body. 

Supplementary relations among proteins. No one food furnishes 
all of the protein requirement. Good nutrition demands that this mixture 
of proteins furnish the essential amino-acids. ft has been estimated that 
more than 40 per cent of the protein in the American dietary comes from 
the cereal grains. If this is true, there is insufficient protein of good 
quality in the diet, because, according to present standards, at least two- 
thirds of the protein should be of animal origin. The cereal grain proteins 
are "incomplete proteins," therefore, other sources of protein must be 
depended upon to make up their deficiencies, or to supplement them. In 
this combination of proteins, each protein enhances the value of the other. 
This is known as the "supplementary relation among proteins." Naturally 
two proteins lacking the same amino-acids will not be able to supplement 
each other. The extent to which a protein supplements other proteins is a 
measure of its value. Meat proteins are especially valuable in that thev 
enhance or supplement to a marked degree the cereal grain proteins. 

Meat is unexcelled as a source of protein because: (1) It has a high 
protein content; (2) its proteins are "complete proteins," and (3) its 
proteins have the ability to supplement the incomplete proteins which are 
secured from other sources. 

Energy Value of Meats 

While meat is classified as a protein food rather than as an energy food, 
it does furnish energy. The amount of carbohydrate, in the form of 
glycogen, is so small as to be insignificant as a source of energy. But 
since all meats contain fats in greater or lesser degree, meat has a caloric 
value varying with the degree of fatness. Fat is lost during cooking or the 
visible fat may be cut away before eating, and so the caloric value of the 
meat consumed will depend upon the method of cooking and the personal 
preference of the individual. If all the visible fat is eaten, meat adds 



1 Mitchell, H. H., The Biochemistry of the Amino- Acids, The Chemical Catalogue 
Co., Inc. 



12 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 



CALC I U M 




Fie. 4. 



NUTRITIVE VALl E <> F MEAT 13 

materially to the energy content of the diet, but because the visible fat may- 
be removed, meat fits equally well into the low-caloric diet. The chart on 
page 10 shows the relative importance of meat as a source of energy. 

Minerals 

Meat is a valuable source of certain essential minerals. The three mineral 
elements in which the average diet is most likely to be deficient are calcium, 
phosphorus, and iron. 

Calcium. Meat is not a good source of calcium, as a study of the 
Calcium chart on page 12 will show. It is interesting to note that meat can 
be made to yield more calcium by the method of cooking. Williams 1 reports 
that if meat is cooked with the bone, in the presence of a small amount 
of acid, the amount of calcium from the dish may be increased as much as 
25 to 34 per cent and an individual serving may furnish from 15 to 25 
per cent of the daily calcium requirement. 

Phosphorus. Meat is the richest source of phosphorus, as a study of 
the Phosphorus chart on page 14 will show. Foods of animal origin rank 
higher than foods of vegetable origin as sources of phosphorus, and meats, 
based on average servings, furnish as much as or more than the other foods 
of animal origin, with liver at the very top of the list. 

Iron. Lean meat is a rich source of iron in a highly available form. 
By "highly available" is meant that the iron furnished by meat is well 
utilized by the body. It will be noted that beef liver heads the list of iron- 
rich foods shown on the Iron and Copper chart, on page 17, but pork 
liver contains three times as much iron as beef liver, while calf and lamb 
liver contain only three-fourths as much as beef. Liver, therefore, of all 
types, is valuable for its iron content. 

Copper. It has been found that iron is better utilized when even a 
very small amount of copper is present. The stars on the chart indicate 
the foods which contain copper. The value of meat in building hemo- 
globin may be related to the fact that it furnishes copper as well as iron. 

Vitamins 

Meat has been considered generally to be unimportant as a source of 
vitamins; however, meat does contain many of the recognized vitamins. 
Vitamin A is associated with most animal fats and with glandular organs. 
The chart on page 18 shows that liver is an excellent source of vitamin A. 

Meat also contains appreciable amounts of the water-soluble vitamin, 
or those factors grouped in the vitamin B complex, which are: (1) 
Thiamine, (2) riboflavin. (3) nicotinic acid, (4) vitamin B 4 , (5) vitamin B,. 



'Williams, Jessamine C, Calcium in Meat Cooked ivith Arid. Food Research Vol. 1 
(1936). 



II 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 



PHOSPHORUS 



SELECTED 
SERVING 

EdlblePorb 



RELATIVE AMOUNTo/ PHOSPHORUS 




Fic. 5. 



NUTRITIVE VALUE OF MEAT 



15 



and (6) factor W. Elvehjem 1 says: 

"Meat and meat products are important sources of the six known members of the 
vitamin B complex." 

Meat, especially lean pork, is known to be a rich source of vitamin B x 
(thiamine), which is recognized as being essential to human nutrition. 
Mickelsen et al 2 state : 

"Therefore even though meats are used in the diet to the extent of only 7 per cent, they 
are capable of supplying one-third of the vitamin Bi needs. When meat such as pork is 
used, the proportion of the day's requirement thus supplied is correspondingly increased." 

Day 3 says: 

"Lean meats are among the most important food sources of riboflavin for man." 

Elvehjem 1 states: 

"This food (meat) is one of the richest natural sources of nicotinic acid." 

Digestibility of Meat 

The value of any food depends not only upon the nutrients it furnishes, 
but also upon the completeness with which those nutrients are utilized by 
the body. As has been shown above, 
meat proteins are well utilized by the 
body. The same is true of the fat. As 
a class, all common fats are easily and 
almost completely digested, and the 
slight differences are not significant. 
The chart on this page shows the diges- 
tability of fats from animal and vege- 
table sources. Whatever differences 
there are appear to be related to the 
melting point of the fat. Those fats 
which have a melting point around 
body temperatures are easily emul- 
sified in intestinal digestion. 

Fats are not changed much in the 
stomach and tend to retard the diges- 
tion of other foods. A meal containing 
considerable fat remains longer in the 
stomach. This characteristic of fats 
gives a "staying power" to the meals, thus delaying hunger. 

Because meat is so completely digested it does not add bulk to the diet. 

Palatability and Satiety Value 

Meat has two distinctive qualities which add to its value as a 
These are palatabilitv and satiety value. 

Palatability. The great palatability of meat is due to the extractives 
which give it its characteristic flavor; its texture, for meat supplies variety 



DIGESTIBILITY 

OF 

EDIBLE FATS 

e Ai e 

LARD Al^ ANIMAL FATS 

^Aftm HYDROGE HATED ^BiBm 
nil VEGETABLE OILS B 



VEGETABLE FATS 



BASED ON CI0U»es (IOM LANGWOITHY 

19 ANIMAL (ATS - (101 TESTS) 

33 VEGETABLE FATS ■ (156 TEST)) 

21 NYMOGENATB0 VEOETABLt FATJ - (79 TESTS) 

BUTTCB (BUSTS) 

LAID 19 TESTS) 



food. 



'Elvehjem, C. A. Personal Communication, May, 1939. 

-Mickelsen, Olaf, Waisman, H. A., and Elvehjem, C. A. The Distribution of Vitamin 
IP (Thiamin) in Meat and Meat Products. Journal of Nutrition. Vol. 17. No. 3. 1939. 
'•Day. Paul L. Personal Communication, May, 1939. 



16 TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 

in texture as no other food does; and its aroma. The aroma and appear- 
ance of a well-cooked piece of meat act as a stimulant to the digestive 
juices, and the flavor of the meat is extended to the blander foods served 
with it, making them more palatable. Nutritionists agree that it is good 
judgment to eat foods which taste good, for such foods are essential to 
efficient digestion. The development of flavor depends upon the processes 
of cooking. A certain amount of fat also is essential to palatability. 

Satiety value. The extractives also contribute to the satiety value 
of meat, which means the feeling of satisfaction after partaking of food. 
The old saying "it sticks to the ribs" is another way of expressing the same 
thought. Meat possesses this quality to a greater extent than any other 
food. The satiety value of an article of food can be measured in two 
ways: (1) By the length of time the food remains in the stomach and 
(2) by the amount of gastric activity it produces. Both these factors con- 
tribute to the satiety value of meat. The fat content tends to retard diges- 
tion in the stomach and extractives stimulate the flow of digestive juices. 

The great importance of meat as a food is due not only to its ability to 
build and repair tissues and to furnish energy, but also to the quality of pro- 
ducing physiologic activity in the stomach. 

In estimating the value of a food, these three factors should be taken into 
consideration: (1) The nutrients it contributes to the balanced diet; (2) 
its satiety value, for, while any food will relieve hunger pangs temporarily, 
others produce a sense of well-being for a longer period of time; and (3) the 
savory value or palatability, for, unless a food is liked, it probably will not 
be eaten. 

The food value of meat may be summarized as follows: It furnishes protein 
of highest quality; it is an excellent source of iron and phosphorus and it 
contains copper; it supplies needed vitamins; it is high in energy value; it 
is one of the most palatable of foods; and it ranks highest of all foods in 
satiety value. 

Correction of Certain Fallacies 

Sometimes ideas or theories are advanced which have no foundation in 
fact and when the facts are known these ideas proved to be fallacies. 
Several such fallacies have existed about meat; these have been disproved 
as will be pointed out in the following paragraphs. 

Meat does not cause disease. In the past, many erroneous beliefs were 
held regarding meat as a contributing cause to disease. Meat has been 
blamed for a long list of diseases such as kidney trouble, high blood 
pressure, cancer, hardening of the arteries, gout, etc. A review of the 
scientific literature reveals an ever-growing mass of evidence to prove that 
meat is not in any way responsible for the various ills ascribed to meat 
eating in an earlier day. Indeed, meat is shown to be of decided value in 
the treatment and cure of some of the verv diseases it was once said to 



NUTRITIVE VALUE OF MEAT 



17 



IRON and COPPER 



SELECTED 
SERVING 
fc/t&/efbrfio/>. 

4oz ••• 



RELATIVE AMOUNT q/ IRON 




7oz • 

I0LO&S 



Fic. 6. 



18 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 



VITAMINS 

Common Foods as Sources of Vi-tamins 





Not determined but present in small amounts, t A portion of the vitamin C is destroyed in cooking. 
§ Evaporated milk diluted with an equal amount of water has the same value as pasteurized milk. 

(1) Thiamine: 1 microgram = V3 International Unit 

(2) Riboflavin: 1 microgram = '/ 3 Sherman-Bourquin T'nit 

(3) Ascorbic Acid : 1 milligram = 20 International I'nits 



Fig. 



NUTRITIVE VALUE OF MEAT 



19 



PERCENTAGEOFTHEDAILY REQUIREMENT OF 

PROTEIN.CALORIES.PHOSPHORUS&IRON 

FURNISHED BYAN AVERAGE SERVING OF 
SOME COMMON FOODS 

25 PERCENT 



20- 



15- 



10- 



5- 



lEGGSMHW 
CHEESE 



MILK 
■CHEESEI 

IBHEHOEGCS 



IMIIKi 
CHEESEI 

IBRERDI 



cause. Authorities agree that no known disease, at least, is caused by eating 
meat, even in large amounts. 

Pork is completely digested. The statement often is heard that "pork 
is hard to digest." This is not true. Being somewhat fatter than other meats, 
it may remain in the 
stomach a longer period, 
but pork, in common 
with all meats, is well- 
utilized by the body. 
Comparative tests re- 
ported by the United 
States Department of 
Agriculture showed that 
pork was digested 
slightly more rapidly 
than turkey, in the same 
time as chicken, and a 
little more slowly than 
beef and lamb. The dif- 
ferences between the 
various meats were so 
slight as to be insignifi- 
cant. 

Veal is not difficult 
to assimilate. It has 

been said that veal is 
hard to digest and should 
never be given to those of 
delicate digestion. Sci- 
ence has dispelled this 
fallacy, for in feeding 
experiments with both 
animals and humans it 
has been found that even very young veal digests as rapidly and completely 
as beef and that it has no undesirable digestive effects. 

Red meat versus white meat. It is often said that white meats may 
be given to invalids and convalescents, while red meats should not; or that 
fowl may be permitted, but meat forbidden. McCollum and Simmonds 1 
state that there is no evidence to support this view. 

1 McCollum, E. V., and Simmonds, Nina, Food, Nutrition, and Health, Lord Balti- 
more Press, Baltimore (1925). 



PROTEIN CALORIES PHOSPHORUS 



IRON 



|j|| LESSON NUMBER THREE f 



m 



cfeedtng the cfami/y for cHealth 



NUTRITION is not an abstract science. Good nutrition is the first es- 
sential to good health and, because this is true, feeding the family 
becomes the most important task of the homemaker. In order to perform 
this task intelligently, she must have a knowledge of what constitutes good 
nutrition. In other words, she must know what foods adequately meet body 
needs for growth, maintenance, and repair. 

Malnutrition is the reverse of good nutrition, and its cause is a diet 
which does not meet needs for growth and repair of body tissues. Such a 
diet may be inadequate or insufficient in amount. Faulty food habits con- 
tribute to malnutrition. Eating between meals the foods which destroy the 
appetite for regular meals, hurried or irregular meals, and the omission 
of meals are all faulty food habits and for the sake of good health should 
be corrected. Insufficient or inadequate food probably accounts for mal- 
nutrition among the low income groups, but bad food habits are respon- 
sible for this condition among high income groups, and, unfortunately, 
malnutrition is all too common in homes where the food budget is not 
limited. This shows that foods sufficient in quantities to appease hunger 
and satisfy appetite are not necessarily foods which insure good nutrition. 

The Normal Diet 

How is the homemaker to go about her task of providing meals which 
adequately meet the nutritional needs of her family? She must plan each 
day's meals so that they include the foods which furnish all the dietary 
essentials. In Lesson Two the essentials of an adequate diet were given : 
Protein, energy foods, minerals, vitamins, and bulk. Meals must be planned 
to include foods which furnish these essentials. 

Most foods contribute more than one essential food element. In the pre- 
ceding lesson, for example, meat was shown to be lacking only in calcium, 
certain vitamins, and in bulk. Other foods, likewise, are valued for more 
than one nutrient. In planning the adequate diet, it is necessary to know 
the best sources of the essential nutrients and the amounts needed to meet 
the requirements of the body. 

20 



FEEDING THE FAMILY F () K HEALTH 21 



Provision for Protein Requirement 

Protein is needed for repair and replacement of body tissue, or for main- 
tenance, in the adult. In addition to protein for maintenance, children 
must have protein for growth. The growing child needs two to three times 
as much protein as the adult per unit of body weight, and at least two- 
thirds of it should be of animal origin. 

Sources of protein. The foods of animal origin which furnish proteins 
of high biological value are: Meat, eggs, fish, poultry, milk, and cheese. 
Similar foods of vegetable origin are: Cereals, legumes, nuts, tubers, and 
root vegetables. The proteins of vegetable origin are incomplete proteins, and. 
therefore, cannot be depended upon as the sole source of protein in the diet. 

Protein allowance. Scientists are not in complete agreement as to the 
amount of protein required for optimum health, but it is generally con- 
ceded that a liberal protein allowance is best. McCollum and Simmonds' 
draw the conclusion from their investigations that a liberal protein allow- 
ance maintains vigor for the longest period of time. McLester 2 points out 
that, while it is possible to go along for a time on the minimum protein 
intake, a liberal supply of high quality protein is most desirable. He sug- 
gests an intake of about 100 grams daily for an adult, including meat and 
milk in first place. 

The generally accepted minimum protein requirement for an adult is 
0.6 gram per kilogram of body weight. Below this standard good health 
cannot be maintained. The optimum protein intake is still a question. Just 
how much more should be provided as a margin of safety has not been 
established. The standard of one gram per kilogram of body weight has 
been accepted by some, but the trend is toward a higher level of 1.25 to 1.5 
grams per kilogram. For young children 2 to 3 grams per kilogram of 
body weight is the generally accepted standard, until they pass the rapidly 
growing stage when the amount needed for growth becomes less until the 
standard for an adult is reached. 

Vegetarian diet. It is possible to live on a strictly vegetarian diet, but 
it is not easy to do so and maintain the body in the highest state of effi- 
ciency. The reason why it is difficult is because a strictly vegetarian diet 
(the so-called vegetarian diet often includes eggs and milk) is almost 
bound to be low in quantity and quality of its protein. 

From the standpoint of good nutrition a mixed diet is desirable. Nature 
has equipped man for a mixed diet, as is shown by his teeth and his diges- 
tive apparatus. A vegetable diet will be greatly improved by the addition 
of even small amounts of meat. This is a point which should not be over- 



^IcCollum, E. V., Orent-Keiles, Elsa, and Day, Harry G., The Newer Knowledge 
of Nutrition, 5th ed. The Mac.Millan Co., New York (1939). 

2 McLESTER, James, Nutrition and Diet in Health and Disease. W. B. Saunders Com- 
pany. Philadelphia (1939). 



22 TENLESSONSONMEAT 

looked when, for economic reasons, the diet consists largely of vegetable 
foods. When the amount of protein in the diet is restricted, it is especially 
important that the protein be of high quality. 

Energy Requirement 

Energy is defined as the "capacity for doing work." Foods supply the 
fuel which creates heat and energy. Proteins, carbohydrates, and fats all 
serve as fuel to the body, but it is carbohydrates and fats which usually are 
classed as energy foods. The fuel value of foods is measured by the calorie, 
which is a unit of heat. A calorie is the amount of heat required to raise 
one kilogram of water one degree Centigrade, or one pound of water four 
degrees Fahrenheit. Proteins and carbohydrates produce four calories per 
gram and fats nine calories per gram. The fuel value of a food may be 
calculated if the composition is known. 

Carbohydrates. Sugar and starches are the carbohydrates. At least a 
portion of the calories must come from the carbohydrates because fats are 
not completely oxidized without them, or as it has been stated, "fats burn 
in the fire of the carbohydrates." 

The foods which furnish sugar are: Sugar, molasses, syrups, honey, can- 
dies, fresh and preserved fruits, and desserts. 

The sources of starch are: Cereals, breads, cakes, cookies, and starchy 
puddings, potatoes and other starchy vegetables. 

Fats. The foods which furnish fats are: Bacon and salt pork, fat of 
meats, lard and other cooking fats, butter and cream, and salad-oils. 

Fats formerly were valued only as sources of heat and energy, but it is 
known now that some fats are carriers of important vitamins. And recently 
certain fats have assumed even greater importance, for it has been found 
that they furnish essential fatty acids which the body cannot manufacture, 
and so must get them from the fats which contain them. Lard is one of the 
richest sources of these acids, linoleic and linolenic. 

Individual energy requirement. The energy requirement of the indi- 
vidual depends upon several factors. Age, size, and sex influence energy 
requirement. Activity increases the energy requirement. The same individ- 
ual's requirement will vary with his activity. Children have a much higher 
requirement per unit of body weight than an adult. An active child will re- 
quire more calories than one of the same size and age who is not active. 
The energy requirement, based upon these factors, can be estimated. A 
knowledge of the approximate caloric value of foodstuffs will enable one to 
calculate fairly accurately whether the diet is adequate in this respect. 

Mineral Elements 

Minerals have several important functions in the body. They are needed 

in body building, forming a large part of the bones and teeth. In smaller 

amounts they enter into the composition of the muscles, cells, etc., and 

they help in regulating body functions. They are necessary to preserve the 



FEEDING THE FAMILY FOR HE A L T 1 1 23 

approximate neutrality of the fluids of the body. In these and other ways 
minerals act as bod) regulators. 

Some of the minerals found in the body are present in very small 
amounts, but all are essential to life itself. Definite standards have been 
established for some of the minerals. Others are present in such minute 
quantities that standards for the amounts needed for optimum nutrition have 
not been determined. The three minerals in which diets are most likely to 
be deficient are calcium, phosphorus, and iron. The dietary requirements for 
these three minerals have been determined. 

Calcium. In combination with phosphorus, calcium builds the bones and 
teeth. Functioning of calcium in this respect is dependent upon maintain- 
ing the proper ratio between phosphorus and calcium and the presence of 
vitamin D. Too little calcium in the diet of the child under two causes a 
disease called rickets in which the bones do not harden properly and de- 
formities result. Calcium is needed for growth. The optimum calcium intake 
for an adult is .68 gram and for a child 1.0 gram per day. Milk, cheese, 
fruits and vegetables provide calcium in the diet. 

Phosphorus. Phosphorus compounds are essential to all the tissues of 
the body. Phosphorus is a constituent of every cell; it contributes largely to 
the bony structure; it is found in organic union w ith proteins, fats, and carbo- 
hydrates: it aids in the work of the various glands. Rickets may be caused 
by a deficiency of phosphorus, as well as by a deficiency of calcium. 

Studies have shown that diets frequently are too low in phosphorus, and 
so care should be taken to see that foods furnishing this mineral are used. 
The optimum requirement for the adult is 1.3 grams daily, while the child 
probably needs more than this. Meat, milk, cheese, fish, nuts, legumes, and 
whole cereals are sources of phosphorus. 

Iron. Iron is found in the body in very small amounts, but its uses are 
very important. It is an essential constituent of the hemoglobin, and is 
necessary in carrying oxygen from the lungs to the body tissues and in 
carrying carbon dioxide back to the lungs. Oxygen is needed "to make the 
fire burn." It oxidizes foodstuffs and releases their energy. When there is 
an insufficient supply of iron in the diet, the hemoglobin falls below nor- 
mal and nutritional anemia results. An adequate supply of iron is essential 
in the prevention and cure of this type of anemia. Dietary studies have 
shown that iron-rich foods are used in insufficient amounts; for this rea- 
son more of these foods should be included in the diet. 

The daily iron requirement for an adult is 12 milligrams, and two serv- 
ings of meat daily will furnish about half of this amount. Other foods which 
are good sources of iron are shown on the chart on page 17. 

Vitamins 

Vitamins are essential for health and growth. If these food accessories 
are lacking in the diet, disease will result. At least six vitamins which are 



24 TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 

recognized to be of significance in human nutrition have been obtained in 
pure form. Their chemical structure also is known. Studies indicate that 
there are many others, but these have not been identified sufficiently to 
make it profitable to discuss them here. 

Vitamin A. Vitamin A is a fat soluble vitamin, which promotes growth, 
builds general resistance and is necessary to normal functioning of the 
eyes and to the prevention of severe inflammation of the eye, known as 
xerophthalmia. Vitamin A is found in cod liver oil, eggs, butter, milk, liver, 
and other glandular meats, and, to a lesser extent, in muscle meats. 

Vitamin B complex. The food accessory which was known first as 
vitamin B now is recognized as being of a multiple nature, and is termed 
the vitamin B complex. The exact status of the various factors which 
make up the vitamin B complex is in a chaotic state, because of the 
many studies now in progress. On this point Sebrell 1 says: ''The field is 
being investigated so actively at the present time that it is almost impos- 
sible to make any conclusive statement concerning the identity of factors 
which have not been chemically isolated." 

The present status of the vitamin B complex, therefore, permits only a 
mention of the factors now generally accepted. The three now known to 
be significant in human nutrition are: 

(1) Thiamine (vitamin BJ. This factor is sometimes called the "appe- 
tite vitamin" because it creates a desire for food. A marked loss of weight, 
due to loss of appetite, may be caused by a deficiency of thiamine. Thiamine 
is needed for growth; it aids in the utilization of carbohydrates; it pro- 
motes the health of the body cells ; and prevents the disease called beriberi. 

(2) Riboflavin. This is the factor of the vitamin B complex which for- 
merly was known as vitamin B 2 or vitamin G, but is not the factor which 
prevents pellagra, as was formerly thought. The one undisputed physiologic 
role of riboflavin is that it is related to the oxidation processes of the cell. 

(3) Nicotinic acid. This is the factor which prevents and cures pellagra, 
possessing the function formerly ascribed to vitamin G. 

Other factors of the vitamin B complex which are being studied at the 
present time are vitamin B 4 , the anti-paralytic factor: vitamin B , the anti- 
dermatitis factor ; and factor W, the growth factor, but the relation of these 
factors to human nutrition has not been established definitely as yet. 

Vitamin C. This vitamin is essential to growth and good health. A defi- 
ciency of vitamin C results in a disease called scurvy. This vitamin is pres- 
ent in fresh fruits and vegetables, the citrus fruits being excellent sources. 
Vitamin C is easily destroyed by cooking: for this reason uncooked fruits 
and vegetables should be a part of the daily diet. 



Sebrell, W. H.. Vitamins in Relation to the Prevention and Treatment of Pellagra. 
Journal of the American Medical Association, Vol. 110. No. 20 (1938). 



FKEDING THE FAMILY FOR HEALTH 



25 



Vitamin D. Vitamin D is called the 
"sunshine vitamin" because it may be 
absorbed directly from sunshine. Fish 
liver oils are the richest known source. 
It is present in some foods, but in 
amounts too small to be significant. 
By means of irradiation vitamin D may 
be added to foods, and this is being 
done in a number of cases. 

Vitamin D is essential to the proper 
utilization of calcium and phosphor- 
us, and to the prevention of rickets. 

Bulk 
The indigestible framework, cellu- 
lose, of fruits and vegetables furnishes 
bulk which is necessary to the elimina- 
tion of waste. 

Meat in Menu Planning 

It is a usual practice to plan the meal 
around meat. It is sound judgment to 
do so because meat supplies many nutr 



PERCENTAGE OF DAILY ADULT 

NUTRITIONAL REQUIREMENTS' 

FURNISHED BY ONE SERVING 
OF MEAT 




PROTEIN CALORIES CALCIUM PHOSPHORUS IRON 



Fic. 8. 
ients essential to the balanced meal. 



Nutrients contributed by meat. The normal diet for a moderately 
active adult of average size is: 80 grams of protein, 2,500 calories, .63 gram 
of calcium, 1.3 grams of phosphorus, and 12 milligrams of iron. The 
chart on this page shows that one four-ounce serving of meat will supply 
24 per cent of the protein, 14 per cent of the calories, 15 per cent of the 
phosphorus, and 20 per cent of the iron. A serving of meat this size also 
will furnish a large percentage of the necessary factors of the vitamin 
B complex and some vitamin A. 

Appetite appeal. In addition to its nutritive value, meat has an im- 
portant place in meal planning because of its appetite appeal; for meat, 
more than any other food, possesses the quality of making the meal in- 
teresting. The aroma and appearance of well-cooked, attractively served 
meat dishes stimulate the appetite and make all meals enjoyable. 

Variety in the meat dish. If the meat dish is different, the whole meal 
seems to have variety, even though the accompanying dishes are much the 
same as those served the day before. Care should be taken, therefore, to 
make use of a wide variety of meats. All the cuts of meat should be utilized, 
not alone for the sake of economy but for variety as well. Also in selecting 
different kinds and cuts of meat, one instinctively serves the vegetables, 
sauces, etc., which go well with that particular meat dish. 



26 TENLESSONSONMEAT 



Meat in the Child's Diet and in Special Diets 

In the light of research meat has assumed an importance in special diets 
not formerly ascribed to it. 

Meat in the diet of the child. At what age should meat be included 
in the child's diet? While all nutrition authorities do not agree on this 
point, there is a trend toward an earlier use of meat in children's diets. 
Meat may be included in the diet as early as eight months, when it is given 
in the form of crisp bacon and scraped beef. By the end of the first year 
finely ground meats may be used, and as the child grows older, the amount 
and number of servings may be increased. A publication from the Chil- 
dren's Bureau, United States Department of Labor, makes the following 
statement regarding the need for and the use of meat in the diet of the 
young child: 

"Meat and fish supply valuable proteins, minerals, and vitamins. At the beginning of 
the second year, small servings of tender meat — beef, chicken, lamb, or liver, boiled, 
broiled, or roasted, and finely minced should be given at least three times a week. By 
the time the child is eighteen months old, he may have meat or fish every day. As the 
child's ability to chew increases, he may be given larger pieces of meat, but it must 
always be tender. Veal, ham, or pork, properly cooked, may be given to the child over 
four." 1 

Liver is used with excellent results in child feeding because of its high 
quality protein, its rich content of iron and other minerals, and its vitamins. 
Liver has been shown to stimulate appetite and so is useful in the diet of 
children who are "difficult" about eating enough food to meet body needs. 

All meats for young children should be simply prepared by roasting, 
broiling, or simmering and should not be served with rich sauces. 

Because the protein requirement of the growing child is greater per 
unit of body weight than that of the adult, it is very difficult to provide 
sufficient protein without a liberal supply of meat. 

Protein requirements for children. Children require at least twice 
as much protein per pound of body weight as do adults. Many authorities 
are recommending an even higher standard. The Nutrition Committee of the 
League of Nations advises this higher standard for young children, almost 
three times as much per pound of body weight as is required by the adult. 

Effect of too little protein. The effects of a diet deficient in protein 
may not be obvious for some time, but the result is most disastrous if con- 
tinued for any length of time, especially in children. They are not only below 
par, both mentally and physically, but their growth may be permanently 
stunted. 



^The Child from One to Six, Publication No. 30, Children's Bureau, U. S. Department 
of Labor (1931). 



FEEDING THE KAMI L Y FOR H E A L T 1 1 27 

Effect of a high protein intake. Although some persons have advo- 
cated a protein intake to barely meet the requirement, the advantages of a 
higher protein intake have been so clearly demonstrated by experimental 
work that it seems inadvisable to place any upper limit on the protein allow- 
ance, provided the diet meets all requirements. Children's diets are more 
likely to be inadequate in protein than too abundant. 

Meat in the reducing diet. A nutrition problem of considerable im- 
portance has arisen with the present-day fashion for slender figures. If 
health is to be maintained, the reducing diet adopted must be one that 
furnishes all the essential nutrients. The safe reducing diet is the normal 
diet with a low caloric value. The fat of the body then will be burned to 
supply the energy needed. 

High-protein, low-caloric diets have been demonstrated clinically to be 
very satisfactory in a reducing program; especially when meat is the chief 
source of protein. 1 Such a diet prevents protein losses, increases the rate at 
which the fat is burned, and provides valuable nutrients besides protein. 
The quality of the protein is of special importance when the diet is re- 
stricted as is the case in reducing. 

Often in planning a reducing diet, the satiety value of the foods included 
is completely overlooked. This gives rise to an unsatisfied feeling which is 
reflected in the disposition of the person who is reducing. McLester 2 points 
out that for this reason meat, which has greater satiety value than any 
other food, should provide most of the protein in the reducing diet. 

It is obvious that reducing should not be entered into carelessly, and 
without competent medical direction. The growing girl who chooses a 
reducing diet neither wisely nor well is taking grave chances with her future 
health. She runs the risk of so lowering her resistance that she is an easy 
prey to disease. McLester 3 advises the inclusion of liberal amounts of meat 
in restricted diets because it is "the best blood builder," to prevent the 
anemia which so frequently appears in those on greatly restricted diets. 

Overweight may be due to an organic condition which only a physician 
can diagnose, and so a physician's counsel is essential before going on a 
reducing diet. Even where there is no organic cause for overweight, rational 
diet stiil should be the rule. 

Meat in the weight-gaining diet. The most satisfactory weight-gaining 
diet is the normal diet in which both the protein and the calories are in- 
creased. High protein has been found to be valuable in weight-gaining 
diets because the body is protected against protein losses and because it 

1 Campbell, Leo K., Personal communication. 

-\I< Lester, James. Nutrition and Diet in Health and Disease, W. B. Saun.ler< Com- 
pany, Philadelphia (1939). 
3Ibid. 



28 TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 

furnishes the material for building and repairing tissues. In clinical 
studies, Campbell 1 found a high-caloric, high-protein diet, with meat as the 
main source of protein, highly satisfactory in weight-gaining. 

The underweight person, of course, should be guided in his diet by the 
physician, just as the overweight person should. 

No general rules for dieting will fit every case, for each individual may 
present a different problem. 

Dietary Importance of Meat in Disease 

One of the most important contributions of the science of nutrition to 
human well-being is the discovery of the benefit of different foods under 
certain pathological conditions. Research of the past few years has revealed 
the value of meat in the prevention and treatment of certain diseases. 

Meat and anemia. It has been said: "There has been but little signifi- 
cant advancement in the therapy of pernicious anemia from the time that 
Addison described it in 1855, until the publication in 1926 of the discovery 
by Minot and Murphy that liver contains a principle which stimulates red 
blood cell formation.*' This discovery, after three-quarters of a century 
without any real progress having been made, ranks in importance with the 
discovery of insulin in the treatment of diabetes. 

The work of Drs. Minot and Murphy of Boston with pernicious anemia 
patients was based on the experimental work with dogs by Dr. George 
Whipple and co-workers. Whipple's investigation showed that an animal 
makes good its losses after a severe hemorrhage more quickly if given an 
abundance of meat, and more recent investigations have demonstrated the 
great value of liver in this respect. Liver and other glandular meats are 
valuable in pernicious anemia because they are important sources of iron 
and copper and also because they apparently contain some unidentified 
substance which aids in the building of red blood cells, as well as in hemo- 
globin formation. 

With an inadequate supply of iron in the diet or when the iron is not well 
utilized, the hemoglobin falls below normal and anemia results. This type 
of anemia is nutritional and differs from pernicious anemia: however, the 
results of Whipple's and Minot's and Murphy's work can be applied to 
both types of anemia. 

The small amount of iron stored in the baby's body at the time of birth is 
exhausted at about six months and from then on the food eaten must furnish 
all the iron. Scraped beef, beef juice, and other foods rich in iron should 
be fed along with the milk, which constitutes the great part of the infant's 
diet, or anemia will result. In nutritional anemia muscle meat, as well as 
the glandular meats, is valuable in hemoglobin formation. 



'Campbell, Leo K., Personal communication. 



IDENTIFICATION A NI) SELECTION 29 

Meat and pellagra. Pellagra is a disease which occurs in areas where 
the diet is lacking in fresh meats, milk, eggs, and leafy vegetables. An 
adequate diet is the most satisfactory way to prevent and cure this disease. 
SebrelT says: "If every normal person received enough of the foods contain- 
ing the pellagra-preventive vitamin there would be no endemic pellagra. This 
means eating such foods as lean meat, milk. fish, and a variety of vegetables 
containing the pellagra-preventive vitamin." This is the factor of the vitamin 
B complex which has been identified as nicotinic acid. 

Meat in kidney disease. The present diet in kidney disease is in striking 
contrast to the theory of diet formerly held. It is generally believed now that, 
except in certain acute cases, the protein must be increased so that the 
food protein will cover not only the needs of the body, but also make 
up the protein loss through the kidneys. In effect, most doctors are feeding 
protein at a higher level in cases of nephritis and other kidney disorders 
than that required by the normal person. And meat, because of the high 
quality of its protein, may be included in such diets. McLester- points out 
this fact in the following: 

"It should be recalled that deposit protein and that used for the replacement of wear 
and tear make no demand on the excretory organs and therefore cannot injure the kid- 
neys, and that this fact applies to the larger part of the protein eaten by any person 
who has suffered from protein shortage. In other words, the increased amount of pro- 
tein food now recommended for the patient with Bright's disease can have no direct 
influence on the kidneys; it is used entirely for purposes of replacement, and in this 
manner makes for recovery." 



'Sebrell, W. H., Vitamins in Relation to the Prevention and Treatment of Pellagra, 
Journal of the American Medical Association, Vol. 110, No. 20 (1938). 

2 McLester, James, The Diet in Bright's Disease, Journal of the American Medical 
Association, Vol. 99 (1932). 



§JH LESSON NUMBER FOUR §£ 

S/aentificatton ana Selection of illeat 



SUCCESSFUL meat cookery begins in the meat market, because the right 
cut must be selected for any particular method of preparation. Prac- 
tices of making retail cuts differ in various sections of the country and the 
names given to the retail cuts are not the same in all localities; therefore, 
the homemaker will be a more intelligent meat buyer if she is able to 
recognize the different retail cuts by appearance as well as by name. She 
can buy more economically if she knows how to prepare and serve attrac- 
tively all cuts of beef, veal, pork, and lamb. She should have also a knowl- 
edge of the characteristics of quality. 

How to Judge Quality in Meat 

There are several important factors which determine the quality and 
palatability of meat. Tenderness and flavor are the consumers' measure of 
quality. The United States Department of Agriculture and several State 
Agricultural Experiment stations are engaged in a cooperative project, 
known as the "National Cooperative Meat Investigations," the purpose of 
which is to determine how quality and palatability are affected by such 
factors as age, breed, sex, feed, etc. There are certain characteristics which 
the homemaker can train herself to recognize so that she will know that 
the meat purchased has the quality which she demands. 

Meat Grades. With the growth of this country and with the increase in dis- 
tance between the centers of production and consumption, there arose the 
necessity for the standardization of meat and meat products on the basis of 
quality. About 1916 the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, United States 
Department of Agriculture, in cooperation with other agencies, began de- 
veloping practical standards for classes and grades of meat as a part of the 
Department of Agriculture's standardization program for live stock and 
other farm products. In 1917, tentative standards for classes and grades of 
beef were offered for meat market reporting purposes. These standards 
have been the basis for Federal meat grading since that service was started 
in 1923. The packers have their own systems of grading meat according to 
quality, based on the same factors. 

Such systems make it possible for buyer and seller to carry on their 
transactions intelligently through the use of mutually understood terms in 

30 



IDENTIFICATION AND SELECTION 31 

describing the product in question. It is not possible within the limits of 
this text to discuss in detail the systems of classifying and grading. The 
reading list at the end of this book includes excellent references on the 
subject. The consumer will find it helpful to understand the factors which 
are the basis of grading meat. These are: Conformation, finish, and quality. 

Conformation. The term conformation covers the general build, form, 
shape, contour or outline of the carcass, side, or cut. Good conformation 
implies a plump, stocky, or blocky carcass with short neck and shanks, full 
loins, deep, plump rounds, well-fleshed ribs, and thick shoulders, as con- 
trasted to ranginess and angularity. This means that the retail cuts will be 
shapely, have full muscles, and a large percentage of edible meat to bone. 

Finish. Finish refers to the quality, color, and distribution of fat. Best 
finish implies a smooth, even covering of fat over most of the exterior 
surface of the carcass — a layer about three-quarters of an inch thick over 
the top of the ribs and loin is considered sufficient, a much thinner covering 
over the interior surface of the ribs, and liberal deposits between the large 
muscles and between the muscle fibers. The intermingling of fat with lean 
gives the cut surface of the meat a streaked appearance, called marbling. 

Quality. The term quality refers to certain characteristics of the flesh and 
the fat contained in the flesh. It is related primarily to the firmness and 
strength of muscle fiber and connective tissue, since these affect the tender- 
ness of the meat. It also involves the amount, consistency, and character of 
the juices and extractives, for these influence the palatability. The texture 
of the meat is related to quality. Quality is influenced by marbling. Best 
quality implies a well-marbled lean, fine grain, with a color typical of the 
particular meat being judged. 

Grading and stamping. Federal grading and stamping and packer 
branding of fresh meats were inaugurated in 1927. The Federal grade stamp 
and the packer brand indicate the quality of the meat. The systems of 
classifying and grading meats, discussed above form the basis of the prac- 
tice of marking meat and meat products for quality. At first, grading and 
stamping under the Federal grading service was limited to beef, but now 
includes lamb, veal, pork. This practice of marking meat for quality is 
designed as an aid to the consumer in buying meat. The stamp or brand 
is put on in such a way that all major retail cuts are marked. 

Federal Meat Inspection 

The stamp of quality discussed in the preceding paragraph must not be 
confused with the round purple stamp which is the symbol of Federal 
inspection. This round purple stamp is the guarantee that the meat is from 
federally inspected animals and is wholesome. All meat and meat products 
which are processed by packers engaged in interstate commerce are subject 
to Federal inspection. Meat and meat products which are not sold outside 
the state where they are processed come under the jurisdiction of state and 



32 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 



local inspection laws. The ink used in putting on the inspection stamp is 
a pure vegetable dye and absolutely harmless, as is also the case with brand 
or grade stamp. It is not necessary to cut these stamps away before cooking. 

Meat Cutting Methods 

Although methods of making retail cuts vary in different markets, the 
principles underlying all methods are the same. The thin pieces are sepa- 
rated from the thick, chunky pieces and the tender portions are separated 
from the less-tender portions of the carcass. This is necessary since different 
methods of cooking must be used to get the best results in the meat dish. 

How to Know and Use Cuts 

By studying the charts and tables on the following pages and by visiting 
the meat market, the student will learn to identify the different retail cuts 
of beef, veal, pork, and lamb. As was pointed out in Lesson One, the less- 
tender sections are those where the muscles have received the most exercise, 
and the tender cuts are made up of muscles which have received little ex- 
ercise. If, therefore, the meat buyer knows the location of the cut, she will 
know whether it is one of the tender or the less-tender cuts and will select 
the cooking method accordingly. 

Beef Cuts 

Beef is the flesh of mature animals of the bovine species (cattle). The 
chart on page 36 shows the wholesale and retail cuts into which a side of 
beef is cut. The wholesale cuts are the divisions which are made to separate 
the thin portions from the thick and the tender portions from the less- 
tender. The wholesale cuts are divided into retail cuts. 

Making beef cuts. The beef carcass is split in two, lengthwise, into 
what are called sides; a side of beef is, therefore, a half of a beef carcass. 
For convenience in handling and loading into refrigerator cars, beef sides 
are divided into fore quarters and hind quarters. According to the Chicago 
method, this division is made between the 12th and 13th ribs, leaving one 
rib on the hind quarter. One rib is left on the hind quarter according to 
the New York method. According to the method of cutting in Boston, three 
ribs are left on the hind quarter, while in Philadelphia, the side is divided 
so that all the ribs are on the fore quarter. The methods of removing the 
wholesale cuts differ from the Chicago method also. The chart on page 36 
shows the Chicago method of making wholesale and retail cuts. The following 
discussion is based on this method, which is widely used. 

The shape of the bones in the wholesale and retail cuts is one of the best 
means of identification of the cut. By studying the charts on pages 37, 43, 
47, and 51 one will learn the location, structure, and names of the bones 
present in each wholesale cut. Compare these charts with the charts on the 
opposite pages. By observing the way the retail cuts are made with refer- 
ence to the direction of the bone, one may learn the shape and amount of 



IDENTIFICATION AND SELECTION 33 

bone in each retail cut. For example, the long round leg bone is present in 
the round of beef. The round steak is cut across this bone, therefore, a round 
steak contains a small, flat round bone. It will be noted that the principal 
difference in the bones of beef, veal, pork, and lamb is their variation in size. 

How to judge quality in beef. While the factors of conformation, 
finish, and quality are applied in grading all meat animals, there are indi- 
vidual differences which distinguish each. Beef of good quality has a smooth 
covering of brittle, creamy fat over most of the exterior and a much thinner 
covering over the interior surface of the ribs; there also will be liberal 
deposits of fat between the larger muscles and a generous distribution along 
the connective tissue and between the muscle fibers. In other words, it is 
well marbled. The lean is firm, velvety in appearance, and fine in grain. The 
bones in young beef are porous and red; in older animals white and flinty. 

Veal Cuts 

Veal is the flesh of calves from three to twelve weeks of age, weighing 
from 40 to 300 pounds. Veal from milk-fed calves weighing about 125 
pounds and from six to eight weeks old is considered the most desirable. 

Veal cuts are from one-third to one-half as large as the same cuts of 
beef. The size of the carcass determines the method by which it is divided 
into wholesale cuts. It may be cut into fore and hind saddles by dividing 
between the 12th and 13th ribs, the ribs being numbered from front to back. 
The hind saddle consists of the unsplit legs or rounds, and the untrimmed 
loins; the fore saddle is made up of the two fore quarters, unsplit. Or the 
carcass may be split in half lengthwise and then each side cut across in much 
the same way as the side of beef is cut. This is done by the retailer who buys 
the whole carcass. (See Veal chart on page 42.) 

How to judge quality in veal. The lean of veal is light grayish pink 
in color. The meat is very fine in grain, fairly firm, and velvety in texture. 
Veal, being from a young animal, does not have as much finish as beef; 
it has very little fat and this is clear, firm, and white; veal has no marbling. 
The bones are porous and red and the ends of some of them are still pliable. 

Lamb Cuts 

Lamb refers to the flesh of the young ovine animal (sheep). Mutton 
is the flesh of the mature sheep. There is no definite age at which lamb 
becomes a yearling or mutton. There are certain features which are char- 
acteristic of each group; these differences are the results of changes which 
occur at different stages of maturity in the animal. Age produces changes 
in the character, color, and consistency of the flesh and the bone, and, to a 
lesser extent, in the consistency and character of the fat. According to 
available figures, about 93 per cent of sheep is marketed as lambs and 
yearlings and about 7 per cent as mutton. 



34 TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 

Over half of the lamb carcasses are divided into cuts before reaching 
the retail market. Lamb carcasses are seldom split into sides, but, like veal, 
are divided into fore and hind saddles, each one being about 50 per cent 
of the weight of the carcass. Or another method is to divide the carcass into 
four smaller wholesale cuts: Legs, loin, hotel rack, and stew. The term stew 
is a common trade name and refers to the fore saddle with hotel rack removed. 

How to judge quality in lamb. The hardness and color of the bones 
are good indications of age. Redness in bones indicates a young animal, 
whiteness indicates age. The ''break joint" is the most reliable indication 
of age. In young lambs the fore feet are taken off at the break joint. This 
joint has four well-defined ridges which are smooth, moist, and red. As 
the lamb approaches the yearling stage, the bones become harder and white; 
the break joint retains some of the saw tooth effect, but is harder and more 
porous. When the mutton stage is reached the break joint cannot be broken 
and the fore feet are taken off at the round joint, below the break joint. 

In lamb the color of the flesh varies from light to dark pink. As the 
animal grows older, the color deepens. In yearling lamb, it will be medium 
pink to light red, and in mutton light to dark red. 

Lamb fat is softer than that of yearling or mutton. It is creamy white or 
slightly pink in color. The fat of yearlings is whiter and a little more brittle 
than lamb fat, and mutton fat is still whiter and more brittle. 

Pork Cuts 

Pork is meat of hogs. Most pork comes from relatively young animals, 
usually from seven to twelve months of age. Pork carcasses are classified 
according to the use to be made of the cuts, since one type is best suited 
for sale as fresh pork, another for cured and smoked meats. 

Making pork cuts. Practically all pork is divided into cuts in the 
packing plant. About 30 per cent is sold fresh, the rest is cured by various 
methods, rendered into lard, or manufactured into sausage. (See Lesson 
Nine.) Demands of the trade influence the method of cutting and determine 
what particular cut is to be made. No hard and fast rule of cutting is fol- 
lowed. One kind of a cut may be made one day and the next day the 
market value of lard or the demand for other cuts may necessitate making 
different ones. Nor can pork cuts be classed as those which are always sold 
fresh and those which are always sold cured, because practically every pork 
cut may be cured, and, under certain conditions, is cured. Also some of the 
cuts which are usually cured are available as fresh pork. 

Lard and sausages also are important pork products. 

How to judge quality in pork. In general, the pork produced in the 
United States is quite uniform, so there are fewer grades than in other 
meats. The color of young pork is a grayish pink, changing to a delicate 



IDENTIFICATION AND SELECTION 35 

rose in the older animal. In pork, due to the uniformity of marketing age, 
there are only moderate differences in color. The flesh is relatively firm 
and fine grained, and free from excessive moisture. The lean is well 
marbled and covered with firm white fat. 

Preservation of Meat 

Meat may be preserved for future use in a number of ways: 

1. Canning is one way. Fresh meats and some of the meat specialties are 
canned, both commercially and in the home. 

2. Curing is an important method of preserving meat. There are several 
methods of curing meat and each produces a characteristic product. Sodium 
chloride or common salt is the essential ingredient used in all methods of 
curing. Other ingredients, such as sugar and spices, are used chiefly for 
flavor. After curing some meats are smoked and are then classed as smoked 
meats. The smoking process aids in preserving meat. It also adds a pleasant 
flavor. Ham and bacon and some sausages are cured and smoked. Dried beef 
is cured, smoked, and dried. Corned beef is cured or corned, but not smoked. 

3. Meat is chilled quickly and held under refrigeration at 32° -36° F. 

4. Meat may be kept for long periods by freezing and keeping in a frozen 
condition. The freezing is done at a temperature of from -5° to -15° F., or by 
a quick or rapid freeze at a much lower temperature of from -25° to -50° F. 
Freezing does not affect the quality of the meat. 

Care of Meat in the Home 

When meat is received from the market, it should be unwrapped and 
wiped or scraped off— but never washed — and stored immediately in the 
coldest part of the refrigerator. The meat should be placed on a clean, dry 
plate or shallow dish, uncovered or lightly covered. The reason for not 
closely covering meat stored in the refrigerator is that a little drying of the 
surface is desirable, because it retards bacterial growth. The meat may be 
lightly covered by placing a piece of waxed paper loosely over the top. 

Cooked meats should be covered, because the surface has been dried out 
during cooking and further drying in the refrigerator is undesirable. 

Smoked meats, such as ham and bacon, should be kept in a dark, cold 
place. When preparing bacon, only the amount required should be re- 
moved from the refrigerator. If the package or container is taken out and 
allowed to stand at room temperature while the meal is prepared, moisture 
will condense on it and lessen the keeping qualities of the bacon. 

The packer and the retailer keep meat under the best possible storage 
conditions, so that it will reach the consumer in the best possible condition. 
But from the time of delivery until the meat is cooked, keeping meat under 
proper storage becomes the homemaker's responsibilitv. 



36 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 



•at Cuts and How to Cook Th< 

BEEF CHART 

Re tail Cuts Re tail Cuts 

Wholesale Cuts 




Oi'ound Beef Heel of Round 

-Boost or Broil — Braise or Simmer- 




Hind ShanK 

• Soup or Simmer ■ 




Rolled Flank Flank Stew 

B raise Stew 




Flank Stea,k F, ^ e S + + s eaK 



© 



Plate Rolled Short 

Boiling Beef Plate Ribs 

simmer or Braise 






Beef BrisRet Corned Beef 

Simmer 




KnucRle Ci'ossCut 

Soup Bone ForeShanR 

Soup or Braise 

1 





Round Steak Top Round Bottom Round 

Braise (Swiss SteoR) 




Rolled Rump Rump Roast 

Braise or Roost 




Sirloin SteaR Pin Bone Sirloin Steak 

Bi'oit or Panbi'oil 




Porterhouse T Bone Club 
Steak Steak Steak 

Broil or Ponbroil 




Standing Rolled Rib 

Rib Roast Rib Roast SteaR 

Boost 



- Broil - 




Blade SteaR Blade Pot Roast 




Triangle Boneless ChucR Snouloer 
Pot-Roast Pot-Roost Fillet 



English Cut Arm Pot Roast 

Braise 



Arm SteaR 



Rolled NecR Boneless NecR 

Braise or stew 



Fic.9. 



IDENTIFICATION AND SELECTION 



BEEF CHART 



Location, Structure 
and Names of Bones 



HOCK BONES^X; 

tarsal bone 

HIND SHANK BONE 
tibia 



STIFLE JOINT 

SHANK KNUCKLE BONE 

.iferior extremity of femur 

KNEECAP 
patella 

ROUND BONE 
femur 

RUMP KNUCKLE BONE 

Superior extremity of femur 



RIB CARTILAGES 

costal cartilages 



TIP OF BREASTBONE-. 

xiphoid cartilage 

BREASTBONE 

sternum 
sternebrae I to 7 



SHANK 



olecranon process ... 



SICKLE ] tnfenorexlrem 
BONES [of humerus 



FORE SHANK BONES 



\rad 



tna 
radius 




, AITCH or 
/ RUMP BONE 

ischium 

, HIP BONE 



► pelvis 



^TAIL BONE 
'/' caudal vertebrae I C 2 

_-- BACKBONE 
/ sacrum 

sacral vertebrae I to 5 

SLIP JOINT 

sacro-diac diarthrosts 

^> BACKBONE 

/ lumbar vertebrae I to 6 

, ' spinous process 
'' _*■ transverse process 

' - body of lumbar vertebra 

*"* CHINE BONE 

bodies of cervical, thoracic, 
lumbar and sacral vertebrae 

^FEATHER BONES 
\ spinous processes 

) BACKBONE 
/ thoracic vertebrae / (o 13 

'--- BLADEBONE CARTILAGE 
scapular cartilage 

.---BLADEBONE 
scapula 



-- RIDGE BONE 

spine of scapula 

? NECK BONE 

' cervical vertebrae 1 to 7 

--ATLAS 

1st cervical vertebra 

--ARM KNUCKLE BONE 
superior extremity of humerus 



Fig. 10. Solid lines indicate Chicago stvle of dividing carcass into wholesale cuts. 



38 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 

Table 2 — Identification 



Wholesale 
Cut 


Description of Wholesale Cut 


Retail Cuts 


Hind Quarter 
Round 


Hind leg — large amount of lean in proportion 
to fat and bone. One of less-tender sections. 
Cut into steaks. In some markets cut across 
face of round; in others separated into "top" 
and "bottom," named from position when 
round is on cutting block. When sold as "top" 
and "bottom" round, the sirloin tip usually is 
removed before the round is divided into these 
two sections. 


Round steak 
Top round steak 

Bottom round steak 
Sirloin tip 
Heel of round 
Hind shank 


Rump 


Wedge-shaped cut weighing 10-15 pounds and 
containing about 30 per cent bone. These 
bones are the aitch or rump bone, tail bone, 
and the knuckle joint. To facilitate carving, 
bones are partially or wholly removed. Juicy 
and tender. 


Rolled rump pot-roast 
Standing rump pot-roast 

Steaks 


Loin End 


The portion of the loin, adjacent to and just 
ahead of the round and rump. Separated from 
the short loin at the pin bone. Contains por- 
tions of backbone and hip bone. Cut into 
steaks which differ in shape, size and amount 
of bone. Sirloin steaks are named from shape 
of bones. The shape of the bones changes be- 
cause each steak is cut across a different sec- 
tion of the hip bone. 


Wedge-bone sirloin 
Round-bone sirloin 
Double-bone sirloin 

Pin-bone sirloin 


Short Loin 


The section which lies between loin end and 
rib; contains half of backbone and 13th rib. 
There are two muscles characteristic of this 
section — one large muscle above the T-bone 
and a small one, the tenderloin, below. Ten- 
derest section of side; lean fine in grain. 


Porterhouse (cut from 
end nearest Loin 
End) 

T-bone (name taken 
from shape of bone) 

(T-bone and porter- 
house used more or 
less interchangeably) 

Club or Delmonico 



Continued on 



IDENTIFICATION AND SELECTION 39 

and Use of Beef Cuts 



Identifying Characteristics of Retail Cuts 


Cooking Methods 


Round or oval in shape with small round bone. One large 

muscle, three smaller ones. 
Most tender portion of round. Is one large muscle. 

Not so tender as top round. Distinguished from top round 
by having two muscles. 

Triangular cut ; usually contains kneecap. 

Boneless cut from above hind shank. Weighs 4-6 pounds. 

Has very little fat and is least tender cut from round. 
Bony, considerable connective tissue, rich in extractives. 


Braise 

Braise 

Broil (from high quality 
beef) 

Braise 

The round is used for 
Swiss or Spanish steak. 

Roast, Braise 

Braise as pot-roast 
Stew 

Soup 

Stew 


Boneless roll. 

Triangular in shape; contains portion of aitcli bone and 
tail bone. Knuckle bone has been removed. 

Small surface, triangular. 


Braise 

Roast (from high quality 

beef) 
Braise 
Roast (from high quality 

beef) 
Braise 
Broil (from high qualitv 

beef) 


Largest of sirloin steaks. Some of muscles cut with grain. 

Contains wedge-shaped bone and part of backbone. 
Somewhat smaller. More muscles cut across grain. The 

wedge-shaped bone has changed to a round bone. 
The two bones which form the double bone lie adjacent to 

each other. The round bone has changed to the longer of 

the two. 
Lies next to the porterhouse. Contains the pin bone which 

is the forward end of hip bone. 


Broil 
Panbroil 

(These methods are used 
for all sirloin steaks) 


Large mu«cle above T-bone: tenderloin muscle is largest 
in this steak. Large deposit of fat between (lank end and 
tenderloin. Cut across the grain. 

Somewhat smaller in area than porterhouse. Tenderloin 
muscle gradually growing smaller. 

Triangular-shaped: smallest steaks in short loin. Tender- 
loin has practically disappeared. 


Broil 
Panbroil 

(These methods are used 
for all steaks from 
Short Loin l 



following page 



40 


TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 

Table 2 — Continued 


Wholesale 
Cut 


Description of Wholesale Cut 


Retail Cuts 


Flank 


A triangular, thin, practically boneless cut — 
may contain small end of 13th rib. Coarse in 
grain. One of less-tender cuts. 


Flank steak — only one 
in a side. 

Stew meat 


Fore Quarter 
Rib 

Often called 
"prime ribs." 
This is in- 
correct, as 
"prime" re- 
fers to grade. 


Consists of 7 ribs, 6th-12th. Tender, juicy. Eas- 
ily identified by rib bone and large muscle, 
called the "rib-eye," which decreases in size 
from the 12th rib forward. The face of the 
roast increases in size because the outer, 
less-tender muscles increase in size and num- 
ber. 


Standing rib roa9t 

Blade rib roast 

Folded rib roast 

Rolled rib roast 

Rib steak 
Short ribs 


Chuck 


Consists of blade or rib section of 5 ribs, the 
neck and the shoulder arm. Muscles are small 
and run in different directions. Juicy and well- 
flavored. Most tender portion is in rib section 
nearest the rib cut, i. e., 4th and 5th ribs. Con- 
tains rib bones, backbone, neck bone, shoulder 
blade, and arm bone. This is largest wholesale 
cut in fore quarter. 


Blade roast 
Blade pot-roast 

Arm pot-roast 

English cut 
Blade steak 
Arm steak 
Neck 


Fore Shank 


Considerable bone and connective tissue, vary- 
ing amounts of lean. 


Soup bones 
Cross-cut shank 


Brisket 


Portion that lies below the chuck. Layers of 
fat and lean. Contains rib ends and breast 
bone. Well-flavored fat and lean. 


Fresh brisket 
Corned brisket 


Plate 


Portion which lies under the ribs. Contains ends 
of ribs, layers of lean and fat. Cut across ends 
of ribs to make short ribs. 


Short ribs 

Plate "boiling" beef 

Boneless roll 



IDENTIFICATION AND SELECTION 
from preceding page 



41 



Identifying Characteristics of Retail Cuts 


Cooking Methods 


Oval-shaped, boneless steak weighing % to Wi pounds. 

Muscles run lengthwise; usually scored to shorten 

muscle fibers. Less-tender cut. 
Boneless, coarse fibers. 


Braise 

Stuff and braise 

Stew 


Contains usually two or more rib bones. The "rib-eye" is 

largest in the 1st rib cut which contains the 12th rib 

numbering from the neck back. 
Face of roast is larger than 1st rib cut. More and larger 

muscles, but smaller "rib-eye." Contains portion of 

shoulder blade cartilage. 
Ribs are sawed through, folded down over the large 

muscle and tied in shape. 
Bones are removed and the thin portion rolled around 

"rib-eye" and tied securely. 
Contains "rib-eye" and may contain rib bone. 
Cut from ends of ribs, layers of lean and fat. 


Roast 

Roast 

Roast 

Roast 

Broil, Panbroil 
Braise, Roast 


Contains 4th or 5th rib; portion of blade bone is thin 

strip separating the muscles. 
Same as above. In pot-roasts nearer neck blade bone is 

shaped like the figure seven due to a ridge running along 

outer surface. 
Has a round bone and 3-5 rib ends. A small round muscle 

near the round bone is surrounded by connective tissue. 
A rectangular piece cut across 2 or 3 chuck ribs. 
Contains part of shoulder blade: may have rib. 
Round bone and ends of ribs. Cut thick for Swiss steak. 
Contains vertebrae. 


Roast (from high quality 

beef) 
Braise 

Braise 

Braise 
Braise 
Braise 
Stew 


Contain shank bone and knuckle. 
Small pieces cut across shank bone. 


Soup 
Stew 
Braise 


Layers of lean and fat. Presence of breast bone sure indi- 
cation that cut is from brisket. 
Usually boned before corning. 


Cook in water 

Braise 

Cook in water 


Contains rib ends, layers of fat and lean. 

Cut across plate between ribs. 

Absence of "rib-eye" distinguishes this cut from rolled rib. 


Braise, Stew 
Cook in water 
Cook in water 







42 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 



>at Cuts and How t© CooK Tito 

VEAL CHART 

Retail Cuts Retail Cuts 

Wholesale Cuts 




Rolled Veal c . iv rhicken 
Shoulder Roast <-'»y tnicnen 



-Roost or Braise ■ 



-Braise 



Vea I Fore Sha n h Vea I Patties 

Simmei Braise 1 



Fig. 11. 



IDENTIFICATION AND SELECTION 



VEAL CHART 



Location, Structure 
and Names of Bones 



^-tarsal bones 
- - fibular 
taisal bone 



pelvis-* 



AITCH or , 
RUMP BONE \ 
ischium 

HIP BONE » 
ilium \ 



TAIL BONE^, 
caudal vertebrae I £ 2 

BACKBONE 

sacrum 
sacral vertebrae I to 5 



SLIP JOINT ... 
sacro-iliac diarlhrosis 



BACKBONE ^ 

lumbar vertebrae I to 6 \ 



spinous process ^ n n 
transverse process -^""-V 
body of lumbar vertebra ~^.^'~~-J\ 

CHINE BONE''" 

bodies of cervical, thoracic, 
lumbar and sacral vertebrae 



FEATHER BONES -„.. 
spinous processes 

BACKBONE/ 

thoracic vertebrae I to 13 \ 

BLADEBONE CARTILAGE ^ 
scapular cartilage 

BLADEBONE---.^ 
scapula 



RIDGE BONE 

spine of scapula 

NECK BONE 

cervical vertebrae I to 7 

ATLAS - 
hi cervical vertebra 

ARM KNUCKLE BONE 

superior extremity of humerus 

Fig. 12. 




•HOCK BONES 



HIND SHANK BONE 
tibia 



STIFLE JOINT 



SHANK KNUCKLE BONE 
inferior extremity of femur 

KNEECAP 

patella 

ROUND BONE 

femur 

RUMP KNUCKLE BONE 

superior extremity of femur 



- RIB CARTILAGES 
cos(a/ cartilages 



- TIP OF BREASTBONE 
xiphoid cartilage 

> BREASTBONE 

sternum 
sternebrae I to 7 



- olecranon process) SHANK 

■ / ■ , . > KNUCKLE 
-menor extremity? 

of humerus J 



~~- ulna 



►FORE SHANK BONES 



44 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 

Table 3 — Identification 



Wholesale 
Cut 


Description of Wholesale Cut 


Retail Cuts 


Round or leg 


Corresponds to beef round, rump, and shank. 
Large percentage of lean meat in proportion 
to bone. Veal round is divided into retail cuts 
in much the same way as beef round, and so 
the cuts are simi.lar in shape, bone and muscle 
structure. Legs from small carcass may be sold 
as whole or half legs. 


Leg roast — whole or half 
from small carcass 

Veal round roast 

Veal round steak or 
cutlet 

Heel of veal round 

Shank 

Veal rump roast 

Boneless rump roast 


Loin 


Corresponds to loin end and short loin of beef. 
Contains kidney which may be cut with roast 
or chops. Usually cut into steaks and chops, 
but may be used as roast. Contains part of the 
hip bone, 13th rib, and lumbar and sacral 
vertebrae. 


Sirloin veal steak 
Loin chops 

Kidney chops 

Loin roast 


Breast 


Corresponds to brisket, plate, and flank of beef. 
Long, flat cut containing breast bone and rib 
ends. Flank end, boneless. 


Pocket roast 
Veal riblets 


Rib 


Corresponds to rib of beef. Contains 7 ribs, back- 
bone, and the "eye" muscle. Tender, juicy. 


Rib chops 

Rib roast 
Crown roast 


Shoulder 


Corresponds to beef chuck. Contains 5 ribs, 
backbone, the blade and the arm bones. Ten- 
der, juicy meat. Often boned and rolled for 
roasts. 


Blade steak 
Arm steak 
Blade roast 
Arm roast 
Rolled shoulder 


Shank 


Contains considerable bone and connective tis- 
sue. Varying amounts of lean. Rich in gelatin- 
forming substance. 


Soup bone 



IDENTIFICATI N A M) S E L E CT I ON 

and Use of Veal Cuts 



45 



Idkntifyinc Characteristics of Retail Cuts 


Cooking Methods 


Whole leg— see description of wholesale cut; half leg will 
consist of either rump or shank, section. 

Any desired size. Contains small round leg hone. 

Has the same muscle structure and oval shape of a beef 
round steak; has small round bone. 

Wedge-shaped boneless piece — same as in beef. 

Considerable bone and connective tissue. 

Contains aitch or rump bone, and usually knuckle bone. 

Roll weighing SVi-'iVj pounds. 


Roast, Braise 

Roast, Braise 
Braise 

Braise 
Broth 

Roast, Braise 
Roast, Braise 


Corresponds to sirloin beef steak. 

Correspond to porterhouse and T-bone steaks, with one 

large muscle and the tenderloin. 
Loin chops cut with kidney from rib end of loin; flank is 

wrapped around. 
Usually cut to contain kidney. Will contain backbone and 

the large muscle with tenderloin beneath. 


Braise 
Braise 

Braise 

Roast 


Flank end removed. Pocket cut in from side or flank end 
for stuffing. Contains rib ends and breast bone. Re- 
sembles beef brisket in shape. 

Breast bone and flank removed and breast separated into 
riblets by cutting between the ribs. 


Roast, Braise 

Stew 
Braise 


Contain rib bone and "eye. v Chops cut between ribs do not 

have rib bone. 
Similar to standing rib of beef. 
Shaped like a crown — rib ends "Frenched." 


Braise 

Roast 
Roast 


Contains part of shoulder blade: may have rib. 
Contains round bone and ends of ribs. 
Resembles blade steak, cut thick. 
Resembles arm steak, cut thick. 
Boneless roll. 


Braise 
Braise 

Roast, Braise 
Roast, Braise 
Roast, Braise 


Contains shank bone and knuckle. 


Simp 
Jellied veal 



46 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 



of Cuts and How t© Cook Th< 

LAMB CHART 

Retail Cuts Whofesa/e Cu t s Reta,f Cufs 




Fig. 13. 



IDENTIFICATION AND SELECTION 



47 



LAMB CHART 



AITCH BONE 
ischium 

pelvis- 

HIP BONE 

ilium 



TAIL BONE 
caudal vertebrae 1 to 6 

BACKBONE 

sacrum 

sacral vertebrae I to 4 

SLIP JOINT 

sacro-diac dtarthrosts 



BACKBONE *-.._ 

lumbar vertebrae I to 7 \ 

spinous process v v 
transverse process * "x 
body of lumbar verlebra-.J'^. 

CHINE BONE--"' 

bodies of cervical, thoracic, 
lumbar and sacral vertebrae 

FEATHER BONES -^ 
spinous processes 

BACKBONE <■''' 
thoracic vertebrae 1 to 13 \ 

BLADEBONE CARTILAGE-./ 
scapular cartilage 

BLADEBONE--... 

scapula 



RIDGE BONE 
spine of scapula 

NECK BONE 

cervical vertebrae 1 to 7 

ATLAS -- 
1st cervical vertebra 

ARM KNUCKLE BONE'' 

superior extremity of humerus 

1 •'!(.. II. 




Location, Structure 
and Names of Bones 



1st phalangeal bone] LOWER 
metatarsal bone I HIND 
tarsal bones [ SHANK 

fibular tarsal bone J BONES 

BREAK JOINT 



HIND SHANK BONE 
tibia 



STIFLE JOINT 

SHANK KNUCKLE BONE 
inferior extremity of femur 

KNEECAP 
patella 

LEG BONE 

femur 

RUMP KNUCKLE BONE 

superior extremity of femur 



RIB CARTILAGES 
costal cartilages 



TIP OF BREASTBONE 
xiphoid cartilage 

BREASTBONE 

sternum 
sternebrae 1 to 7 



olecranon process] SHANK 
KNUCK 
j BONES 

BREAK JOINT 



inferior extremity | KNUCKLE 
of humerus J ' 



radius 

metaci 
carpal bones 



FORE SHANK BONES 
LOWER 



metacarpal bone\ 



FORE SHANK 
BONES 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 

Table 4 — Identification 



Wholesale 
Cut 


Description of Wholesale Cut 


Retail Cuts 


Hind Saddle 
Leg 


Corresponds to round, rump, and hind shank of 
beef. Has large proportion of lean meat. Is 
economical. Tender, juicy. The leg may in- 
clude the loin end to increase the size, or it 
may be cut short by removing the sirloin end 
— this being cut into chops or boned out for a 
small roast. 


French style leg 
American style leg 
Sirloin roast 
Leg steaks 
Sirloin chops 


Loin 


Corresponds to short loin of beef. The loin is 
split along the backbone. Each side contains 
half of the T-shaped vertebra bones, and the 
13th rib. Meat is high in quality with very 
little waste. 


Loin chops 

Kidney chop 
English chop 

Loin roast 


Fore Saddle 
Rack 


Sometimes the term rack is used to mean whole 
fore saddle, and rib section is known as hotel 
rack. Contains 9 pairs of ribs. Split in center 
and cut into rib chops. Tender, juicy meat. 


French lamb chops 

Rib chops 
Crown roast 


Shoulder 


Corresponds to chuck of beef. Contains 3 pairs 
of ribs, backbone, shoulder blade, and arm 
bone. Muscles run in several different direc- 
tions. Meat is tender, juicy, and well-flavored. 
Often boned and rolled or boned and left flat 
for dressing; or cut into shoulder chops from 
rib side and arm side. Shoulder may include 
shank and brisket end of breast. 


Shoulder chops 

Square cut shoulder 

Rolled shoulder 
Cushion shoulder 

Mock duck 

Neck slices 


Breast 


Corresponds to plate, brisket, and shank of 
beef. Contains the ends of 12 pairs of ribs and 
the shank bones and breast bone. There are 
two breasts cut from each carcass. Narrow 
thin strip of meat, may be boned and rolled. 


Rolled breast 
Pocket roast 
Lamb riblets 






I D E N T 1 F ICATION AND SELECTION 49 

and Use of Lamb Cuts 



Identifying Characteristics of Retail Cuts 


Cooking Methods 


Shank bone is "Frenched," that is, meat is removed from 
end of bone. Has leg, shank, aitch, and hip bones. 

Meat is peeled back, shank bone is removed and shank 
meat tucked back under fell and pinned in place. 

Sirloin end is removed before legs are divided; is boned 
and tied. 

Round cut with small round bone. 

Correspond to sirloin beef steaks. 


Roast 

Roast 

Roast 

Broil, Panbroil 

Broil, Panbroil 


Contain T-shaped bones; correspond to porterhouse, 

T-bone, and club steaks. 
Kidney cut with chop. 
Cut across the undivided loin. Backbone removed and 

chop skewered into shape. 
Contains backbone and usually the kidney. 


Broil, Panbroil 

Broil, Panbroil 
Broil, Panbroil 

Roast 


The meat has been removed from the end of bone. Con- 
tain eye muscle. 
Same as above, except have not been "Frenched." 
Rib ends are "Frenched" and the ribs shaped and fastened 
into a "crown." 


Broil, Panbroil 

Broil, Panbroil 
Roast 


If cut from rib side, contain rib bone and portion of blade 

bone. If cut from arm side, contain small round bone 

and rib ends. 
Square, flat piece with two faces corresponding to arm 

and blade chops; neck removed. 
Boneless roll. 
Boned and left flat. Sewed on two sides. One may be left 

open for dressing; then skewered or sewed. 
Blade and arm bones removed, but shank bones left in. 

Shaped like a duck. 
Round slice with neck vertebra in center. 


Broil, Panbroil 

Roast 

Roast 
Roast 

Roast 

Braise 


Alternate layers of lean and fat. 

Pocket between ribs and lean, opening along side or at 

flank end. 
Breast bone and flank removed and breast cut between 

ribs. Each small piece contains the end of a rib bone. 


Braise 
Braise, Roast 

Slew 



50 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 



uts and How to Cook Th 

PORK CHART 

Retail Cuts Retail Cuts 

Wholesale Cuts 




Boston Style Rolled 

Butt Boston Style Butt 

Roast 



Fresh Shoulder HocR Arm PorR SteaR 

Simmer Braise 



Fig. 15. 



IDENTIFICATION AND SELECTION 



51 



PORK CHART 



Location, Structure 
and Names of Bones 



AITCH BONE , 
ischium \ 



HIP BONE , ^ 
ilium v \ 



TAIL BONE*-^ 

caudal vertebrae I to 4 \ 7i* 

I %k * y ' \s^ w 

BACKBONE >.„ [\| \ 

sacrum 
sacral vertebrae I to 4 

SLIP JOINT — 
sacro-iliac diarthrosis 

BACKBONE c'' 
lumbar vertebrae 1 to 7 v 

spinous process «.„ \ 
transverse process •.«.*"'^ 
body of lumbar vertebra -_ 

CHINE BONE' 

bodies of cervical, thoracic, 
lumbar and sacral vertebrae 

FEATHER BONES-. 

spinous processes 

BACKBONE <' 

thoracic vertebrae I to J4 \ 

BLAPEBONE CARTILAGE -.. 
scapular cartilage 

BLADEBONE--- 

scapula 

RIDGE BONE--- 
spine of scapula 

NECK BONE'--- 
cervical vertebrae 1 to 7 

ATLAS" 

1st cervical vertebra 

ARM KNUCKLE BONE -" 
superior extremity of humerus 

Fie. 16. 




foes 

phalangeal bones 
dew claws 
metatarsal bones 
tarsal bones 
fibular tarsal bone 



HIND 
fFOOT 



HIND SHANK BONES 



STIFLE JOINT 

SHANK KNUCKLE BONE 

inferior extremity of femur 

KNEECAP 

patella 

LEG BONE 

femur 

RUMP KNUCKLE BONE 

superior extremity of femur 



RIB CARTILAGES 

costal cartilages 



TIP OF BREASTBONE 

xiphoid cartilage 

BREASTBONE 

sternum 
sternebrae 1 to 6 

olecranon process! ri_i ANK 

inferior extremity (-KNUCKLE 
of humerus J BONES 

:.'•: : 1 

radius\ ?ORi - SHANK BONES 



carpal bones 
metacarpal bones FORE 
dew claws r FOOT 

phalangeal bones BONES 



52 


TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 

Table 5 — Identification 


Wholesale 
Cut 


Description of Wholesale Cut 


Retail Cuts 


Fresh Pork 
Ham 


Corresponds to hind shank, round and rump of 
beef, with tail bone, or sacral and caudal ver- 
tebrae, removed. The muscles are tender and 
juicy and there is a layer of fat over the out- 
side just under the skin. Large proportion of 
lean to fat and bone. 


Fresh ham roast 

Fresh ham butt 
Center cut roast 
Rolled ham roast 
Fresh ham shank 
Center cut steaks 


Loin 


Corresponds to rib, short loin and loin end of 
beef. Fat covering. Contains backbone, upper 
portion of ribs, hip bone, and portion of blade 
bone. Extends from shoulder to ham. The 
"eye" muscle extends full length. The portion 
of the loin which corresponds to full loin of 
beef contains the tenderloin muscle. Tender- 
loin sometimes stripped out and sold sepa- 
rately. Tender, juicy, and well-flavored. 


Center cut loin roast 

Ham end loin roast 

Shoulder end loin 

roast 
Loin pork chops 
Rib chops 

Tenderloin 


Spareribs 


Ends of the ribs which have been removed from 
the bacon strip. Very little lean meat and it 
is between the bones. 


Spareribs 


Boston 
Butt 


Section of pork shoulder which compares to 
blade bone and neck sections of beef chuck. 
Contains part of blade bone. 


Boston butt 

Boneless Boston butt 
Blade steaks 


Picnic 
Shoulder 


The lower portion of the shoulder and includes 
the fore leg down to a little above the knee 
joint. Contains arm, knuckle, and shank 
bones. The hock may be cut off and the bones 
removed and picnic shoulder made into a roll 
or cushion roast. 


Fresh picnic roast 
Arm steaks 

Cushion style picnic 
Rolled picnic 
Hock 


Feet 


Little meat, considerable bone. Delicate flavor. 


Pig's feet 


Smoked Pork 
Ham 


Fresh ham which has been cured and smoked. 
Comes to market as regular ham with the skin 
on, or skinned ham. 


Whole ham 
Half ham 
Ham slice 


Loin 


Tenderloin and bones removed ; loin strip, cured 
and smoked. Sold as Canadian style bacon. 


Canadian style bacon 
Sliced 


Bacon 


Comes from section corresponding to flank and 
plate of beef. Spareribs are removed leaving 
boneless piece, the bacon strip. It is trimmed, 
squared, sugar-cured and smoked. 


Breakfast bacon 
Sliced bacon. 


Smoked 
Boneless 
Shoulder Butt 


Eye muscle of fresh Boston butt; cured and 
smoked. 


Cottage roll. 


Picnic 

Shoulder 


See description of fresh picnic. 


Smoked picnic 



IDENTIFICATION AND SELECTION 
and Use of Pork Cuts 



53 



Identifying Characteristics of Retail Cuts 


Cooking Methods 


Rather heavy layer of fat under skin (skin or rind may be 

removed 1 . Lean is grayish white. 
Adjacent to loin. Contains aitch bone and part of leg bone. 
Face is oval. Small round bone. 
Boneless roll. 

Wedge-shaped piece. Contains shank bones. 
Oval shape with small round bone. 


Roast 

Roast 

Roast 

Roast 

Roast, Cook in Water 

Braise 


Eye muscle and portion of tenderloin. Contains backbone 

and may contain ribs. Layer of fat over outside. 
Contains "eye" muscle and portion of the tenderloin. 

Bones are the hip bone and backbone. 
Contains portion of blade bone, ribs and backbone. No 

tenderloin muscle. 
Have both "eye" muscle and tenderloin and T-shaped bone. 
Only the "eye" muscle. There will be a rib bone in each 

chop if cut thick; cut thin, every other chop will have 

no rib bone. 
Long, tapering round muscle, weighs about %-% pound. 


Roast 

Roast 

Roast 

Braise 
Braise 

Braise, Roast 


Ends of rib bones and small amount of lean. 


Roast, Braise 
Cook in Water 


Made by trimming fat from shoulder butt. Contains blade 

bone. Muscles run in both directions. 
Made by boning Boston butt. 
Cut from Boston butt. Contain section of blade bone. 


Roast 

Roast 
Braise 


Contains arm bone. Looks like a small fresh ham. 

Oval at one end and squared off at other. Small round 

bone. 
Square, boneless roast sewed around. 
Boned and rolled. 
Wedge-shaped piece. Contains portion of fore shank bones. 


Roast 
Braise 

Roast 
Roast 
Cook in Water 


Easily recognized by shape. 


Cook in Water 


Characteristic shape. Mahogany brown exterior. 
Characteristic pink color of lean, round bone. White fat. 
Oval-shaped slice with small round bone. 


Bake (roast) 

Bake 

Broil, Panbroil. Braise 


Boneless strip. Lean is light pink. Exterior is brown color. 
Slice cut thin. Is "eye" of loin. 


Roast (in piece) 

Broil, Panbroil (in slice* 


Thin, oblong slab; mahogany color; fat side covered with 

rind. 
Thin long slice, streaked with lean and fat. 


Broil. Panbroil 


Boneless roll, weighing 3 to 5 pounds. 


Bake 


Same as fresh picnic except for characteristics due to 
smoking. 


Bake 






Wm LESSON NUMBER FIVE |J£ 

TYLetkods of Tfleat Cookery — (Roasting 



T 



HE METHOD used in cooking meat depends on the cut to which it is 
to be applied. The tender cuts with a minimum of connective tissue are 
cooked by methods which cannot be used successfully in cooking those 
cuts which have any considerable amount of connective tissue. The cuts 
with the least connective tissue come from those parts of the animal which 
received the least exercise. These muscles lie along the backbone and may 
be called the supporting muscles. The greatly exercised muscles, or the 
muscles of locomotion, are in the leg, the shoulder, the neck, and the flank. 
The muscles of these cuts have developed thickened muscle walls and large 
amounts of connective tissue, and consequently they must be prepared by 
different methods than those used for the cuts with little connective tissue. 
Fundamentals of meat cookery. Fundamentally, there are only two 
principles involved in cooking meat: (1) Dry heat and (2) moist meat. 
The tender cuts are cooked by dry heat because they contain little connective 
tissue, but moist heat is required to make tender those cuts which contain 
much connective tissue. There are exceptions to this general rule as will 
be seen in the discussion which follows on cooking the specific kinds of 
meat. Certain inherent characteristics of beef, veal, pork, and lamb make it 
necessary to modify the methods in order to get the best results. 

Methods of meat cookery. There are three methods of preparing meat 
by dry heat: (1) Roasting, (2) broiling, and (3) panbr oiling. There are 
just two methods of cooking meat by moist heat: (1) Braising and 
(2) cooking in water. The discussion of each of these methods is based on 
investigations carried on over a period of years. 

Results of Experimental Roasting 

To roast is to cook by dry heat before a fire or over hot stones or metal : 
now, especially when said of meats, it means to cook in an oven. Originally 
roasting meant to cook before a hot fire, the meat being on a spit and 
turned frequently. Sometimes a Dutch oven was used; not the heavy cov- 
ered kettle now known as a Dutch oven, but an iron or tin oven with one 
side open to the fire. Now the term roast has come to be applied to meats 

54 



COOKERY METHOD — ROASTING 55 

or poultry cooked by dry heat in the oven, thus it is synonj tnous with bake: 
but bake is seldom used in speaking of meat cookery, except in the case of ham. 

Fundamentals of roasting. Modern methods of roasting are based 
on the results of intensive studies. The following paragraphs set forth the 
most important, and they explain the reasons for the procedure followed 
in roasting meats of all kinds. 

Oven temperatures. It has been found that the temperature of the oven 
is an important factor in getting the best results. A moderately low tem- 
perature (300 o -350° F.) for the greater part of the cooking period should 
be used, because: (1) The roast is uniformly done throughout: 1 2) the 
cooking losses are decreased; (3) the meat is more palatable; (4) the 
roast is plump and full; and (5) the bones and fat are not charred. 

A high oven temperature for all or most of the roasting period causes: 
(1) Excessive shrinkage; (2) uneven cooking; (3) charring and shrunken 
fibers; and (4) decreased juiciness. 

An oven thermometer or an oven regulator is necessary in order to con- 
trol the oven temperature. The illustrations on page 56 show the effect of 
oven temperature. 

Searing. The practice of searing meat was based on the theory that the 
coagulation of the protein on the surface in browning formed a coating 
which prevented the escape of the meat juices and thus decreased cooking 
losses. This has been proved to be a fallacy because meat which is seared, 
whether at the beginning or the end of the roasting period, loses more than 
meat which has not been seared. This loss is due to fat loss rather than to 
the loss of juices. The old idea of "searing to keep in juices" has been 
discarded in the light of present knowledge. Searing develops aroma and 
flavor in the outside slices and a brow ner color. In some experiments, how- 
ever, the roasts which were not seared were more attractively browned than 
those which were seared. The flavor of the interior slices is not improved by 
searing. The color of the drippings is a richer brown. 

Basting. The practice of basting (moistening the surface with drippings 
or some other liquid) is not necessary. Child 1 reports that pork roasts which 
were not basted were judged a little higher than those which were basted. 
The roast should be placed in the pan with the fat side up, then as the 
meat cooks the fat will melt over and into the roast, thus doing the basting. 

Fat may be added if the meat is very lean. A layer of fat such as slices 
of bacon or salt pork or pounded-out fat may be placed over the top. 
Or the fat may be inserted into the lean by means of a larding needle. The 
fat is cut into strips called lardoons and the practice is known as larding. 
Larding increases the juiciness of the meat. 

Salting. When meat should be salted has been a moot question. The 
statement has been made that salt draws out juices and, therefore, it should 



iCHiLD, Alice M., Selection and Use <>< Pork Cuts. University <>f Minnesota \izriciil- 
tnral Experiment Station Bulletin 251 (1929). 



56 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 







» WWWWWW— W illi ii mm ■ 1 1 ■! 





Fic. 17. Effect of Temperature in Roastinc. 77ie two standing ribs (top) were taken 
from the right and left sides of a beef carcass and weighed the same. The same ribs 
(center) after roasting, those at left roasted at 450° F., and those at right at 300° F., both 
to an internal temperature of 140° F. Note the difference in appearance of cooked roasts 
and in color and amount of drippings from each (below). 



COOKERY MET HOD — ROASTING 57 

be added after the meat is done. It is true that salt does draw out juices, but 
in a roast there is little exposed surface, and so not much juice can escape 
and that little is lost to the drippings, giving added flavor without loss of 
nutritive value. It also has been said that the salt penetrates better if 
added in the beginning. Experiments have shown, however, that salt pene- 
trates less than half an inch below the surface. It appears, therefore, that 
it is not important when salt is added to a large piece of meat. 

Covering. A roast should be cooked in an uncovered pan, because other- 
wise it is not a roast. If the roasting pan is covered, the moisture escaping 
from the meat will surround it and the meat will be cooked by moist heat. 

Adding water. Roasts cooked without added water were judged to be 
juicier and better flavored than those to which water was added. The only 
reason for adding water was to keep the drippings from becoming overly 
brown for good gravy. A moderate oven temperature makes it unnecessary 
to add water because the drippings do not char. 

Adding flour. In testing pork roasts, it was found the unfloured roasts 
were a little more desirable than the ones which were floured. The latter 
are more likely to scorch. The drippings from the floured roasts were a 
more attractive brown, but the same results may be obtained by browning 
flour in the drippings when making gravy. 

Roasting time. The time required to roast depends on these factors: 
(1) The oven temperature, (2) the weight, (3) the shape of the roast. 
(4) the degree of doneness, and (5) the composition of the meat. 

The person who cooks meat successfully must have some means of 
telling when the roast has reached the desired degree of doneness. The 
almost universal practice in the home is to allow so many minutes per 
pound. This is referred to as the time-weight relation. In experimental meat 
cookery absolute accuracy is necessary; therefore, the internal temperature 
of the roast is the gauge of degree of doneness, and a meat thermometer is 
used to tell when the proper temperature is reached. Meat thermometers 
are now generally available for household use. 

Limitation of time-tables for roasting. Time-tables for roasting are 
based on the time-weight relation. The time per pound given in these 
tables represents the average cooking time for a great many roasts cooked 
under exactly the same conditions. Every time-table should point out that 
"minutes per pound" are only approximate, for the following reasons: 

Temperature. Unless the time-table specifies the oven temperature and 
unless this temperature is used, minutes per pound are worth very little 
as a guide to doneness. If the temperature of the oven is higher than the 
time-table says it should be, less time will be required than that indicated. 
If a lower temperature is used, it will require more minutes per pound. 

Shape of roast. The shape of the roast influences the rate of heat pene- 
tration. Boned and rolled rib roasts of beef have been found to require 
ten to fifteen minutes more per pound than standing ribs, roasted at the 



58 TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 

same temperature. Chunky beef roasts with the bones cut short require 
several minutes more per pound than the average, and those with long 
bones several minutes less than the average. The way a leg of lamb is 
trimmed at the market influences the cooking time. 

Size of roast. In general, a small roast requires more minutes per pound 
than a large roast. 

Composition. The proportion of lean and fat affects the cooking time. 
Fat in a liquid form is a good conductor of heat, but a poor conductor in 
the solid form. The rate of heat penetration is retarded in fat meat be- 
cause the connective tissue in the more solid fat and the interior fat re- 
mains unbroken, thus keeping the fat globules from touching each other. 

Ripening. Meat which has been ripened requires less time to roast than 
an unripened roast. 

Degree of doneness. The degree to which the roast is cooked influences the 
cooking time. A well-done roast requires more time per pound than a rare 
or medium-done roast. 

These factors which have a direct bearing on cooking time have been 
discussed in some detail in order to make clear why time-tables for roast- 
ing cannot be absolute. In looking back over these factors it will be noted 
that there are some which the homemaker can control and others which 
she cannot. She can control temperature. She can know the size. She can 
tell something about the shape of the roast and she can add or subtract 
minutes per pound accordingly, provided she knows that it makes a differ- 
ence. She cannot know to what extent the meat has been ripened and she 
cannot judge very exactly the composition of the roast. She has very little 
control over the amount of trimming in the meat market: certainly it will 
not always be the same. 

It seems clear, therefore, that the woman who depends on time-tables in 
meat cookery, even though she follows directions faithfully, cannot hope 
to secure uniform results every time. One or another of these factors may 
introduce a variable over which she has no control, or of which she is 
unaware. If a time-table does not do what is expected of it, why have a 
time-table? This is an obvious question. But a guide which works fairly 
well is better than no guide at all. and besides it is necessary to know 
about when the roast should go in the oven to be done at mealtime. 

The meat thermometer. The thermometer was used first in testing 
the doneness of meat in the early investigations at the University of Illi- 
nois. In experimental meat cookery it is necessary to have some means of 
always getting the same degree of doneness and also to have terms which 
mean the same to one worker as to another. What one person considers 
medium-done beef, for example, may not mean quite the same to some 
one else; but an internal temperature of 160° F., is a definite fact, not an 
individual opinion. Through experiment it has been learned to what in- 
ternal temperature a roast of beef must be cooked to be rare, medium, or 



COOKERY M E T II I) — ROAST IN G 



59 




Fig. 18. Measure the distance to the center of the 

largest muscle in order to know how far to insert 

the thermometer into the roast. 



well-done; what the prop- 
er temperature is for pork, 
lamb, and veal. The dif- 
ferent meats show different 
internal temperatures when 
done to the desired degree. 
(See Table 7.) 

There are several types 
of thermometers on the 
market but they are all 
used in the same way. The 
thermometer is inserted in 
the roast so that the bulb 
reaches the center of the 
largest muscle. Care should 
be taken so that the ther- 
mometer does not touch 
bone or fat. As the heat from the oven penetrates the meat, the temperature 
at the center gradually rises and this rise is registered on the thermometer. 
When the thermometer registers the internal temperature which indicates 
doneness for the particular kind of meat, the roast is removed from the oven. 

Temperature rise after removal from oven. If a roast is not cut imme- 
diately upon removal from the oven, it will continue to cook — the tem- 
perature at the center will continue to rise. The cooking may go on from 
thirty to forty-five minutes with a rise of as much as 15°-20° F. It is con- 
ceivable that a roast taken from the oven at 140° F., the internal tempera- 
ture indicating rare beef, may cook to medium-done before it is cut. 

The amount of cooking which takes place after removal from the oven 
depends upon two factors: (1 ) The degree of doneness of the meat and 
(2) the oven temperature. The greater the degree of doneness, the less the 
rise in temperature after removal from the oven. The higher the oven 
temperature, the greater the rise after removal from the oven. In order to 
have the same degree of doneness in roasts, they must be taken from the 
oven at lower internal temperatures as the oven temperature is increased. 



Shrinkage of Meat During Cooking 

The question of shrinkage in meat during cooking is one of consider- 
able practical importance, because shrinkage affects appearance, palata- 
bility, nutritive value, and the number of servings. It is important, there- 
fore, that shrinkage in cooking be kept as low as possible consistent with 
an attractive and palatable product. Shrinkage is the difference between 
the weight of the meat before it is cooked and its weight after cooking. 
Losses which occur during cooking are of two kinds: (1) Evaporation loss 
and (2) drippings loss. 



60 TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 

Evaporation loss. The evaporation of water and other volatile sub- 
stances is termed evaporation loss. This loss is determined by subtracting 
the weight of cooked meat plus drippings from the weight of raw meat. 

Drippings loss. The drippings which collect in the pan are called 
the drippings loss. The drippings are made up of fat, water, salts, and 
extractives. The weight of the roast subtracted from the weight of the 
roast plus the weight of the drippings equals the drippings loss. Evapo- 
ration loss plus drippings loss equals total cooking loss. 

The drippings, of course, are not a total loss, because they are eaten in 
the form of gravy or used in cooking. The browned meat juices which 
exude from the meat into the pan give richness and flavor. 

Causes of shrinkage. There are two factors which have been shown 
to influence cooking losses. Both of these factors may be controlled; there- 
fore, it lies within the power of the cook to hold cooking losses to a mini- 
mum. These two factors are: (I) Temperature of the oven, (2) the degree 
of doneness of the roast. 

Oven temperature. Increased oven temperature consistently increases 
cooking losses, both by evaporation and by drippings. Drippings losses 
increase proportionately more than evaporation losses. 

Degree of doneness. The more thoroughly the meat is cooked the greater 
is the shrinkage. That is, a well-done roast beef will show greater total 
cooking losses than a rare roast beef. Overcooking should be avoided both 
from the standpoint of economy and of flavor of the meat. 

Roasting 

From the results of experimental studies the following rules for roast- 
in**, which apply to all kinds of meat, may be formulated: 

1. A moderately low oven temperature should be used. 

2. Searing does not keep in juices and, therefore, is unnecessary. 

3. The roast should be placed in the pan fat side up, thus eliminat- 
ing basting. 

4. A roast may be salted before or after cooking. 

5. A roast should never be covered. 

6. Water should not be added. 

7. Flouring a roast is unnecessary. 

3. A meat thermometer is the only accurate means of telling when a 
roast is done. 

The rules of roasting given above apply to beef. veal, pork, and lamb, 
but there are certain variations in roasting the different kinds of meat, as 
will be noted in the directions for roasting each. 



COOKHK V M KTIIOD-ROASTIN C 



61 



The Committee on Cooking and Palatabilty Methods of the National 
Meat Investigations Project gives two methods which will produce a highly 
satisfactory roast. These are: (1) The searing method, and (2) the con- 
stant temperature method. 

Cuts Cooked by Roasting 

In selecting a roast, the choice is made from among the tender cuts 
which are of the right shape and size for this method of cooking. Table 6 gives 
the cuts which are suitable for roasting. 



Table 6 — Cuts Cooked by Roasting 



Beef 


Veal 


Pork 


Lamb 


Rib 

Standing 
Rolled 
Chuck ribs 

(of good quality ) 


Leg 

Loin 

Shoulder 

Boned and rolled 
Boned and stuffed 


Ham 

Fresh 

Smoked 
Loin 
Picnic shoulder 


Leg 

Loin 

Shoulder 

Boned and rolled 
Boned and stuffed 


Tenderloin 




Fresh 


Ribs 


Rump 
Top round 

(of good quality ) 




Smoked 
Boston butt 
Crown roast 


Crown roast 



Roasting Beef 

Whether the searing method or the constant temperature method is 
used in roasting beef, the objective is to obtain the ideal roast for the de- 
sired degree of doneness. 

Beef roast. Beef is served rare, medium, and well done. 

Rare beef. The ideal rare roast beef will have a nicely browned ex- 
terior and the cut slice will be a uniform rose red in color, with a narrow 
layer of gray at the outer rim. There will be an abundance of red juice. 

Medium-done beef. A roast of beef cooked to the medium-done stage 
will be attractively browned and the cut slice will have changed from rosy 
red to light pink throughout. The gray layer at the outer edge may be a 
little deeper. The juice will be lighter in color. 

Well-done beef. In well-done beef, the exterior will be brown and the 
slice will be a grayish brown throughout. There will be less juice, which 
is colorless or slightly yellow. The roast cooked to this stage will not be 
so full and plump as roasts cooked to a lower internal temperature. 

Constant temperature method. Season standing ribs of beef with 
salt and pepper. Place fat side up in an open roasting pan. A rack is not 
necessary because the bones form a rack. Insert a meat thermometer so 
that the bulb reaches the center of the rib-eye. Place in oven preheated 
to 300° F., and maintain this temperature throughout the roasting period. 



62 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 




Standing Rib Roast of Beef. 




Beef Rump Roast. 




Boned and Rolled Shoulder of Veal. 
Fig. 19. Cuts Cooked i:v Roasting. 



For small roasts the oven temperature 
should be 350° F. The roast should be 
removed from the oven when the ther- 
mometer registers the desired degree of 
doneness— 140° F., for rare; 160° F., 
for medium; and 170° F., for well-done. 
(See Table 7.) 

Rolled roasts should be turned every 
half hour, so they will cook more evenly. 
A rack should be placed under a rolled 
roast during cooking. 

Searing method. Preheat the oven 
to 450°-500° F. Place roast fat side up 
in an open roasting pan and brown for 
twenty to thirty minutes. Then reduce the 
oven temperature to 300° F., by turning 
down the regulator and opening the oven 
door for a few minutes. Continue to cook 
at this temperature until the thermometer 
registers the desired degree of doneness. 

Roasting Veal 

In cooking veal, two inherent charac- 
teristics must be considered: (1) Lack of 
fat and (2) abundance of connective tis- 
sue. Veal is tender because it is the flesh 
of a young animal, but it contains consid- 
erable connective tissue, and so requires 
long, slow cooking to make it tender. It 
formerly was thought that veal could not 
be cooked by true roasting because of this 
fact; however, experiments have shown 
that by using the constant temperature 
method veal may be roasted successfully. 
The deficiency of fat may be made up by 
larding the roast. 

Ideal roast veal. Well-cooked roast 
veal will have a reddish brown even color 
on the exterior. The interior will be gray- 
ish white and the juice will run onto the 
platter. Veal should never be cooked un- 
til it is crumbly, but should be firm, 
thoimh tender. 



COOKERY METHOD 



K OA STING 



63 



Constant temperature method. 

Season with salt and pepper. Place on a 
rack in a shallow, open roasting pan. 
Insert meat thermometer so that bulb 
reaches center of the thickest muscle. 
Place in oven preheated to 300° F. Cook 
at this constant temperature until the 
meat thermometer registers 170° F. (See 
Table 7 on page 65.) 

Roasting Fresh Pork 

Pork should always be thoroughly 
cooked in order to develop fully the rich 
flavor. The temperature of the oven 
should be moderately low for the greater 
part of the cooking period so that the 
roast will be well done, without drying 
and hardening the surface. 

Ideal pork roast. A pork roast should 
be a uniform brown, the crust should be 
crisp, but not hard. On carving, the inside 
should be grayish white, without a tinge 
of pink. The slices should be firm, juicy, 
and tender, but not crumbly or dry. The 
juice on the platter should be a delicate 
yellowish brown, without a pink color. 

Constant temperature method. A 

loin roast needs no rack, but shoulder 
roasts or fresh hams should be placed on 
a rack. 

Rub the roast with salt and pepper. 
Place in open roasting pan with fat side 
up. Insert a meat thermometer so that the 
bulb reaches the center of the thickest 
muscle. Place in oven preheated to 350° 
F.. and cook at this temperature until the 
meat thermometer reads 185° F. 

Searing method. Place the roast in 
oven preheated to 475° F. Sear for about 
fifteen or twenty minutes, or until uni- 
formly browned. Then reduce the oven 
temperature quickly to 350° F., and con- 
tinue to cook at this temperature until 
the meat thermometer registers 18.5° F. 




Smoked Ham. 




Crown Roast of Lamb. 



Loin of Pork. 




Leg of Lamb, 




Square Cut Lamb Shoulder. 

Fic. 20. Cuts Cooked by Roastinc. 



64 TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 



Baking Smoked Pork 
Smoked pork cuts may need some preparation before cooking, depend- 
ing on the cut and the method of curing. High grade commercial hams 
need not be soaked or precooked. Shoulder cuts and home-cured hams may 
be improved by soaking overnight. A very recent development in processing 
hams has necessitated a modification of the cooking methods, since this new 
type of ham requires a shorter cooking period. Directions giving cooking 
time, etc., accompany the new hams and should be followed, otherwise the 
ham is likely to be overcooked. The searing method is not used in baking ham. 

Ideal smoked pork roast. The ideal smoked pork roast will have a 
uniform dark golden brown on the exterior and a nicely glazed surface. 
The interior will be pink, firm, juicy, and tender. The juice will be yellow- 
ish tan or almost colorless. 

Constant temperature method. Scrub the ham well and place on a 
rack in an open roasting pan, with the skin side up. Insert meat thermom- 
eter. No water should be added. Place in oven preheated to 300° F., and 
bake at this temperature until the meat thermometer reads 170° F., or the 
temperature given in the directions which accompany the hams requiring 
less cooking. Take the ham from the oven, remove rind (if any) and cover 
the ham with brown sugar or any desired mixture for making a glaze. Return 
ham to oven and brown. 

Roasting Lamb 
All lamb cuts are tender, therefore, with the exception of the neck and 
breast, all large cuts may be cooked satisfactorily by roasting. Lamb is served 
well done and medium. The searing method or the constant temperature 
method may be used. The fell, that thin papery covering over the lamb. 
does not affect the flavor of the meat and need not be removed. The leg of 
lamb keeps its shape better and cooks in less time if the fell is not removed. 

Ideal lamb roast. Well-prepared roast lamb will be plump and juicy 
with the outside crisp and golden brown. The juice of lamb roasted to the 
medium stage will be faintly pink, the juice of well-done lamb is light 
brown. The interior will be a grayish brown throughout and it will be 
tender. Lamb should always be served either piping hot on hot plates or 
cold, but never lukewarm. 

Constant temperature method. Rub with salt and pepper. Place leg 
of lamb with the skin side down and the fat side up on a rack in an open 
roasting pan. Insert meat thermometer. Place in oven preheated to 300 D 
F., and maintain this temperature for the entire time. Remove the roast 
when the meat thermometer reads 175° F.. for medium and 180° F., for 
well-done lamb. 

Rolled shoulder roasts should be turned every twenty to thirty minutes 
to insure even cooking. 



COOKERY METHOD 



ROASTING 



65 



Table 7- 


— Time-Table for Roasting 




Roast 


\\ KIGHT 


Oven 
Tempera- 
ture 
Constant 


Interior 

Temperature 

When Hi: moved 

From < )\ in 


Approxi- 

\i i ii 

Time Per 

Pound 


Beef 


Pounds 
6-8 


Degrees F. 
300 


Degrees F. 
140 
160 
170 


Minutes 
18-20 




22-25 
27-30 


Standing ribs (1 rib) 


1.8 


350 


140 
160 
170 


33 
45 

50 




6-8 


300 


140 
160 
170 


32 




38 

48 




5-8 


300 


150-170 


25-30 








5-7 


300 


150-170 


25-30 






Pork — fresh 


3-4 

12-15 

3-4 


350 


185 
185 
185 


35-40 


Whole 


15-20 


Ends . 


45-50 








12-14 
4-6 
4-6 


350 
350 
350 


185 
185 
185 


30-35 




40-45 


Cushion 


35-40 






Pork butt 


4-6 


350 


185 


45-50 








10-12 


350 


185 


30-35 






Pork — smoked 


10-12 
10-12 

6 

6 

3 

3 


300 
300 
300 
300 
300 
300 


170 

160 
170 
160 
170 
170 


25 




15 


Half 


30 




20 


Shank end 


40 


Butt end 


45 








2-4 


300 


170 


35 






Picnic 


3-10 


300 


170 


35 






Lamb 

Leg 


6^-7^ 
3-4 

4H-5M 
3-4 


300 
300 
300 
300 


175-180 
175-180 
175-180 
175-180 


30-35 


Shoulder — Boiled 


40-45 
30-35 




30-35 






Yi; \ i. 

Leg roast 


7-8 

4^-5 
2^-3 
7 
5 


300 
300 
300 
. 300 
300 


170 
170 
170 
170 


25 




30-35 


Hack — 4-6 ribs 


30-35 


Shoulder 


25 




170 









Oven temperatures for the constant temperature method were selected because they give 
results comparable to the searing method in browning, amount of shrinkage, and in roast- 
ing time per pound. This tabic serves as a guide, therefore, in roasting by either method. 



66 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 



Searing method. Follow instructions given above, but place in oven 
preheated to 450°-500° F., instead of 300° F. Sear at the high temperature 
for twenty to thirty minutes, then reduce the temperature quickly by leav- 
ing the oven door open a few minutes and turning the regulator back to 
300° F. Continue cooking at this temperature to desired doneness. 

Comparison of Two Roasting Methods 

The roasting method selected depends upon individual preference. The 
fat and the outside slices may be more attractively browned if the sear- 
ing method is used, although in some instances the roast cooked by the 
constant temperature method may have a better appearance. 

The advantages of the constant temperature method are: (I) Requires 
less attention; (2) fuel costs are lower; and (3) there is less spattering of 
fat in the oven. 

Starting in Cold Oven 

There is considerable interest in starting the roast in a cold oven. \ ery 
little experimental work has been reported on this method of roasting. 
Child 1 reports that fresh pork roasts started in a cold oven required about 
two minutes more per pound and that the roasts showed an evaporation 
loss 5 per cent greater than roasts given an initial sear. Smoked hams 
started in a cold oven had about the same cooking loss as those started in 
an oven preheated to 250° F. The baking time for the cold start was about 
two minutes per pound more. 

Cooking Frozen Meats 

In studies on roasting frozen beef and pork cuts, Child and Paul J found 
that palatability is not affected by freezing. The temperature at which the 
meat is thawed does not make any difference in the palatability of the 
meat. The cooking time is less for frozen roasts which have been thawed 
than for unfrozen roasts. 

Frozen roasts may be placed in the oven or frozen steaks in the broiler 
without thawing. The cooking time is longer for the frozen cut than for 
the unfrozen. Frozen beef and pork roasts require about fifteen minutes 
more per pound than unfrozen roasts. Frozen beef steaks and pork chops 
require ten to fifteen minutes more than comparable unfrozen cuts. Ex- 
cept for the cooking time, there is no difference in the methods of cooking 
frozen and unfrozen cuts. 

Whether the meat is thawed before cooking is optional. Thawing may 
be done at room temperature or in the refrigerator. Thawing in the re- 
frigerator takes several hours longer but the cooking losses are less. There 
is very little difference in cooking losses between unfrozen roasts and those 
thawed in the refrigerator. 

JChild, Alice M., Selection and Use of Pork Cuts. University of Minnesota Agricul- 
tural Experiment Station Bulletin 254 <1929>. 

2 Child, Alice M., and Pail. Pauline, Effect of Thawing and Cooking Frozen Pork 
and Beef, University of Minnesota Technical Bulletin 125 (1937). 



HH LESSON NUMBER SIX |T 

Illetnoas of 1 1 teat Cookery — [Broiling ana LPanoroiling 



THE TWO OTHER methods used in cooking the tender cuts are broiling 
and panbroiling, and these are used for the tender steaks and chops. 
The objectives in broiling and panbroiling are the same — to produce 
steaks and chops with an attractively browned exterior, a plump full ap- 
pearance and juicy interior of the desired degree of doneness. 

Results of Experimental Broiling 

To broil means to cook by direct heat or to grill. Broiling may be done 
over hot coals or under a gas flame or an electric unit. 

Fundamentals of broiling. Studies on broiling, together with other 
meat cookery investigations, have established certain fundamentals which 
have made it possible to standardize broiling methods within limits. The 
type of equipment used may necessitate some modification of the method. 
This will be discussed in greater detail under specific methods. 

Temperatures for broiling. Formerly, it was generally accepted that 
broiling should be done at a high temperature, thus making this method 
of meat cookery an exception to the rule that meat should be cooked at 
moderately low temperature for all or most of the cooking time. Experi- 
ments on steaks have shown, however, that a moderately low broiling 
temperature is best for the following reasons: 

1. The steak will be uniformly cooked throughout. 

2. There will be less shrinkage. 

3. There will be a higher percentage of edible meat. 

4. The steaks will be more tender. 

5. The appearance will be more attractive. 
0. There will be no charring of bone or fat. 

7. Less attention will be required. 

8. There will be less smoking. 

9. Fuel consumption will be less, although cooking time is longer. 
The best results in broiling are obtained if the temperature at the top 

of the steak is about 350° F., during all or most of the cooking period. 

Searing. A steak may be seared if a very brown, crisp exterior is pre- 
ferred. After searing long enough to develop the desired color and crisp- 
ness. the temperature of the broiling oven should be reduced. 

67 



68 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 




Fig. 21. A thermometer inserted into a thick steak is 

the best way to tell when it has reached the desired 

degree of doneness. 



A constant moderate 
temperature of about 350° 
F., may be used for the en- 
tire time and this method 
has been found to have cer- 
tain advantages, which are : 

1. Results of some ex- 
periments indicated 
that unseared steaks 
were more palatable. 

2. Less watching is re- 
quired with constant 
temperature method, 
as the steak need be 
turned but once. 

3. There is less smoke 
in kitchen. 

The searing method may be the most satisfactory for thin steaks and chops. 

Salting. Salt may be added just as the steak is placed on the platter or 
the first side may be salted after it is browned and the steak is ready to 
turn. The salt should not be added before browning because steaks and 
chops have relatively large exposed surfaces and the fact that salt does 
draw out juices must be considered in this case. 

Broiling time. The time required to broil steak or chops depends upon: 
(1) Thickness of cut and surface area, the steak with the larger surface 
taking somewhat longer; (2) the broiling temperature; and (3) degree 
of doneness desired. As in roasting time-tables are only a guide. 

Meat thermometer. The meat thermometer may be used to test the done- 
ness of the steak and chops which are an inch or more thick. The thermom- 
eter is inserted horizontally so that the bulb reaches the center of the 
largest muscle of the steak or the largest chop. The meat should be so 
placed in the oven that the thermometer may be read easily, and care 
should be taken in turning to protect the thermometer. After turning, it 
may be necessary to adjust the thermometer so that it may be read. (See 
time-table for broiling.) 



Cuts Cooked by Broiling and Panbroiling 

Table 8 lists the cuts which may be cooked by broiling and panbroiling. 
Beef steaks and lamb chops should not be cut too thin for best results in 
broiling. Steaks are cut from one to two inches thick. Lamb chops, too, 
may be cut this thick, although a chop three-quarters of an inch thick 
may be broiled successfully. A cut which is too thin will be done clear 
through before the exterior is sufficiently browned and thus there is an 



COOKERY METHOD 



BROILIN G 



69 



undesirable drying out. Cuts for panbroiling may be cut somewhat thinner. 
It will be noted that there are no fresh pork cuts or veal cuts listed as 
being suitable for broiling. 

Why fresh pork is not broiled. Although pork chops and pork steaks 
are tender and contain very little connective tissue, broiling and panbroil- 
ing are not the best methods for cooking them. Pork requires thorough 
cooking to bring out its full flavor. Comparative tests showed that braised 
pork chops were more desirable from the standpoint of aroma, texture, 
tenderness, and flavor of the lean than were chops broiled to the same in- 
ternal temperature. 

Why veal is not broiled. Veal is not broiled or panbroiled because 
it is deficient in fat and because of the abundance of connective tissue 
which requires long slow cooking in moist heat to make it tender. Veal, 
too, should be braised. 

Methods of Broiling 

As in roasting, the searing or the constant temperature method may be 
used in broiling and the choice will depend upon what one desires in 
broiled meat. Personal preferences differ — what one likes may not suit 



Table 


8- 


— Cut 


s Cooked by Broiling an 


d Panbroiling 


Beef 


Lamb 


Pork 


Sirloin steaks 
fin-bone 
Round-bone 
Wedge-bone 
Double-bone 

Porterhouse steak 

Club steak 






Shoulder chops 
Rib chops 
Loin chops 
English lamb chops 
Steaks from the leg 
Ground lamb patties 


Ham slice 

Bacon 

Sausage 


Rib steak 










Tenderloin (fillet m 


gn 


in) 






Chuck steak 

(of good quality) 
Ground beef patties 











another, but in order to formulate a method for broiling, or, for that mat- 
ter, any cookery procedure, it is necessary to define the product which is 
accepted generally as the ideal or standard. The individual can find 
through experience how to modify the methods to obtain the result desired. 

Beef steaks. Beef steaks are liked rare, medium, and well done. Steaks 
cooked to these degrees of doneness may be described as follows: 

Rare. The ideal rare steak will have an even brown exterior with a very 
thin grayish brown layer immediately underneath. The interior will be 
uniformly rose red throughout. It will be tender and there will be an abun- 
dance of red juice. The steak will be puffy and full. 



70 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 




W edge-bone Sirloin Steak. 




Porterhouse Steak. 




Center Cut Ham Slices. 
Fie. 22. Cuts to Broil. 



Medium. The ideal medium-done steak 
will have the same even brown exterior, 
with no charring of bone or fat. The gray- 
ish brown layer will be a little deeper, 
but with a moderately low temperature, 
the interior should be uniformly light 
pink. There will be less juice and it will 
be lighter in color. The steak will be 
plump. 

Well-done. A steak broiled to the well- 
done stage will be brownish gray through- 
out. There will be very little juice, yel- 
lowish in color. The steak will be 
shrunken in appearance. From the stand- 
point of both appearance and flavor, it is 
not desirabe to cook steak to this degree 
of doneness. 

Lamb chops. Lamb chops are liked 
well done or slightly toward the medium. 
The ideal medium-done lamb chop or 
steak will be evenly browned on the ex- 
terior, with the fat a light golden brown. 
The interior will be juicy and grayish 
brown with a tinge of pink. The chop will 
be tender and puffy. The well-done chop 
will have no trace of pink. 

Bacon. Broiled bacon should be crisp, 
but not brittle, and the slice may lie flat 
or be curled. The fat should be clear and 
have no white spots. Personal preference 
will dictate just how crisp bacon should 
be. in fact, some would rather not have it 
crisp at all. 

Ham slice. Broiled ham should be 
delicately browned on the exterior with 
golden brown fat. The interior will be 
pink, juicy, and tender; it should never 
be hard and dry. 

Constant temperature method for 
steaks and chops. Preheat the broiler, 
with the oven door closed, to 350° F.. 
about ten minutes. In experimental work 
the oven regulator should be set at 



COOKERY METHOD 



I'. ROILING 



71 



350° F., and a thermometer placed on 
the rack to measure the temperature at 
that point. In household practice the reg- 
ulator will be set to "broil." Slash the fat 
edge in several places to prevent curling. 
Insert meat thermometer and place steak 
or chops on broiler rack. Place broiler 
pan in position with the top surface of the 
meat about three inches from source of 
heat. If the depth of the broiler does not 
permit this much space, it will be neces- 
sary to reduce the temperature accordion 
to the amount of space between the meat 
and the source of heat. (See page 73.) 
The temperature at the top of the steak 
should be 350° F. Turn steak or chops 
when the upper side is nicely browned. 
The meat will be about half done and the 
thermometer will register an internal 
temperature of 100° F., for rare to me- 
dium steaks; and 135° F., for medium to 
well-done lamb chops. Before turning the 
meat, pull out the broiler pan and add 
salt. Turn the meat carefully with fork 
inserted in fat. Adjust the meat thermom- 
eter so that it can be read easily. Continue 
broiling at the same broiler temperature 
until the internal temperature indicates 
that the desired degree of doneness has 
been reached. These internal tempera- 
tures are the same as for roast beef and 
lamb. Serve at once on a very hot platter. 
Approximate time is given in Table 9. 

Searing method. Set the oven regu- 
lator to "broil" and preheat until the 
broiler is very hot. (The preheating pe- 
riod will vary with the range. The newer 
ranges come up to temperature very rap- 
idly and so it is best to follow the direc- 
tions given by the manufacturer on this 
point.) A thermometer may be used, but 
it requires careful handling because of 
the many turnings necessary with this 
method. Slash the fat edge and place 
steak or chops on broiler rack and slip 




Ham fhitt Slices. 





F reached Lamb Chops. 




Loin Lamb Chops. 






English Lamb Chop. 




Shon I tier Lamb ('hops. 
Fig. 23. Cuts to Broil. 



72 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 
Table 9 — Time-Table for Broiling* 



Cut 



Beef 

Chuck steak — 1 inch 
\Yi inches 



Rib steak — 1 inch. 

1 Yi inches 

2 inches 



Club steak— 1 inch. 

1Y inches 

2 inches 



Sirloin steak — 1 inch. 

1 Y inches 

2 inches 



Porterhouse steak — 1 inch. 

1 Y2 inches 

2 inches 



Ground beef patties 

1 inch thick by 3 inches . 



Lamb 

Shoulder chops — 1 inch. 

1 Y2 inches 

2 inches 



Rib chops — 1 inch . 

\Y inches 

2 inches 



Loin chops — 1 inch. 

1 Yl inches 

2 inches 



Ground lamb patties 
1 inch by 3 inches . 

Pork 

Ham slice 

Yi inch 



1 inch 

Ham slice — tendered 

Yi. inch 

1 inch 

Bacon 



Weight 



Pounds 



2Y 
4 

IY2 

2 

2\i 
1 

IH 
VA 

3 

*Y 

2 

2Y 

3 



4 ounces 



3 ounces 
6 ounces 

10 ounces 

2 ounces 

4 ounces 

5 ounces 

3 
5 
6 



4 ounces 



1Y2-2 



\Yl-2 



Approximate 
Cooking Time 



Rare 



Minutes 



24 
40 

15 
25 
35 

15 

25 
35 

20 
30 
40 

20 
30 
40 



15 



Lamb chops 

are not served 

rare 



Ham always 
cooked well done 



Medium 



Minutes 



30 
45 

20 
30 
45 

20 
30 
45 

25 
35 
45 

25 
35 
45 



25 



12 
18 

22 

12 
18 

22 

12 
18 

22 



18 



20 (well done) 
25-30 



10-12 
16-20 

4-5 



*This time-table is based on broiling at a moderate temperature (350°F.). Rare 
steaks are broiled to an internal temperature of 130 C F.; medium to 160°F. Lamb chops 
are broiled to 170°F. Ham is cooked well done. The time for broiling bacon is influenced 
by personal preference as to crispness. 



COOKERY MET HOD— BROILING 73 

into position, so that top of meat is one and one-half to two inches from 
source of heat. Brown on both sides and then reduce the heat; in a gas heated 
broiler by turning down the flame or placing broiler pan in lower position; 
in an electric broiler by moving the broiler pan to a lower position. Turn 
the meat occasionally to insure uniform cooking. The broiling time is about 
the same as for the constant temperature method. 

Combination broiling and roasting method. Preheat the broiler to 
500° F. Insert meat thermometer into steak or chop. Place meat on broiler 
rack so that top is two to three inches from source of heat. Sear the meat 
for five minutes on each side, turning once. When sufficiently browned, trans- 
fer meat on pan to oven preheated to 250° F., and roast until thermometer 
registers desired doneness. This method requires a little longer, but, after the 
searing period, requires less attention. Also it is a good method to use when 
cooking very thick steak or chops to the well-done stage, since by true 
broiling it is difficult to cook to this stage without undue charring and 
drving out of the surface. 

Broiling ham. A moderately low temperature should be used in broil- 
ing ham slices. Cut the fat edge in several places to prevent curling. Pre- 
heat the broiler so that temperature at top of ham slice will be about 350° F., 
and place the ham slice on the broiler rack so that the top surface is about 
three inches from the source of heat. Turn when the slice is slightly brown 
and about half done. Continue broiling at this temperature. The time re- 
quired depends on the thickness of the slice and the type of ham. 

Broiling bacon. Place cold slices of bacon on cool broiler rack. Place 
rack three inches below the source of heat. Maintain temperature of broiler 
at 325° -350° F. Turn frequently. Remove when bacon is light brown and 
evenly crisped. 

To Secure Moderate Temperature 

Electric broiler. Broiling in an electric range may necessitate some 
modification of the method used, depending on the type of broiler. If the 
range is of the two-unit type or if it has one unit which can be adjusted, 
getting the proper distance of three inches between the top of the meat and 
the unit presents no difficulty. With this distance a constant moderate 
temperature is assured. 

If the unit is not adjustable and if the broiler compartment does not 
permit three inches between the top of meat and the unit, it is apparent 
that moderate temperature broiling is out of the question for thick steaks 
and chops. In this case it is advisable to use the combination broiling and 
roasting method described above, or it is possible after browning on both 
sides, to set the regulator back to 350° F.. and close the broiler door, the 
current will be alternately on and off. The meat should be turned frequently 
to insure even cooking. This is essentially the searing method. 



74 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 



Gas broiler. If the broiler is too shallow to permit three inches between 
the tip of the flame and the top of the steak, the gas should be turned down. 
The homemaker will learn how to adjust the flame so that the broiler tem- 
perature of about 350° F., will be maintained. 

Panbroiling 

In panbroiling, the heat is transmitted to the meat from the hot metal 
of the frying-pan rather than directly as in broiling. A heavy frying-pan 
should be used and may or may not be preheated. It may be lightly rubbed 
with fat, but this is not necessary because fat from the meat will cook 
out almost at once. In panbroiling ground patties, it is well to rub the pan 
with fat first. Panbroiling is a convenient method to use for a few chops 
or a small steak. 

Method. Place the meat in the frying-pan. Brown first on one side 
and then on the other. Reduce the temperature and turn the meat as often 
as necessary to insure even cooking. Turn off the fat as it accumulates in 
the pan. Do not cover the pan and do not add water. Definite times for 
panbroiling cannot be given. To test the doneness, cut a small gash close 
to bone near the end of the cooking period and note the color of the meat. 

Frying 

To fry means to cook in fat — (1 ) in a small amount of fat and (2) in 
a deep layer of fat, also called deep-fat frying. This definition shows that 
in frying either a large or a small amount of fat is used. Meat or other 
food cooked in a small amount of fat is said to be fried; doughnuts cooked 
in deep fat also are said to be fried. 

Fry and panbroil frequently are used interchangeably, or at least the 
distinction is not drawn as finely as it should be. There is an inclination 
to say of any meat cooked in a frying-pan that it is fried. For example, it 
is a common practice to brown certain cuts in a small amount of fat. then 
cover the pan and continue to cook until the meat is tender, and call it 
frying. This, of course, is not frying at all, but braising, because when the 
pan is covered, the meat is surrounded by steam and the process is exactly 
the same as that used in cooking a pot-roast. 

Although most cuts of meat are cooked by other methods than frying be- 
cause these methods give the best results, there are some who do fry such 
cuts as thinly cut round steak, veal steak and chops, liver, and, sometimes, 
pork chops. The procedure is to brown the meat quickly in a small amount 
of added fat and then to continue to cook, uncovered, at a reduced temper- 
ature. This method results in a crisply browned exterior which is not ob- 
tained if the pan is covered. There will be some sacrifice of tenderness to 
flavor in this method. 



Wm& LESSON NUMBER SEVEN m 

1 1 letnoas of 1 1 ieat Cookery — {Braising 



BRAISING is one of the two methods of cooking by moist heat and is 
used in the preparation of those cuts containing considerable con- 
nective tissues. The moist heat softens the collagen (one of the connective 
tissue proteins). As will be explained later, pork and veal steaks and chops 
also are cooked best by braising. Sometimes cuts which are tender enough 
to cook by dry heat, are braised for the sake of variety. 

To braise means to brown meat in a small amount of added fat. then to 
cover and cook slowly in juices from the meat or in a small amount of 
added liquid. This added liquid usually is water, but it may be milk, 
cream, meat stock, dilute vinegar, or juices from vegetables. 

Examples of Braising 

In seeking to simplify and standardize the terms used in meat cookery, 
it was found in manv cases that several terms were used to express the 
same principle. There are many popular meat dishes which are prepared 
by browning in fat, adding a small amount of liquid and cooking slowly in 
a covered kettle; in other words, they are braised. A few typical examples 
will illustrate this point. 

1. A pot-roast is cooked by braising, in this case often called "pot-roast- 
ing." Pot-roast is a large piece of meat cooked by braising. Sauerbraten, beef 
a la mode, smothered beef, casserole roast are only other names for pot- 
roasts which have certain distinguishing characteristics. 

2. A fricassee is made from small pieces of meat cut up as for stew and 
cooked by braising. 

3. Swiss steak, smothered steak. Spanish steak, beef and veal birds are 
other examples of meat dishes prepared by braising. 

4. Pork and veal chops and steaks are cooked by braising. 

5. Meats cooked en casserole are braised. 

Results of Studies on Braising 

There have been fewer studies on braising than on roasting and broiling. 
but manv of the fundamentals established in studying other methods of 
meat cookery may be applied to braising. 

75 



76 TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 

Fundamentals of braising. Regardless of the cut, the desired result 
in braising is to produce a meat dish which is richly browned, with well- 
developed flavor and aroma, and which is tender and juicy. The procedure 
followed is designed to bring about these results. 

Developing flavor. In cooking the less-tender cuts long enough to make 
them tender, there is of necessity some loss of meat flavor, and in braising 
the flavor is developed or increased in several ways. 

The meat often is floured, especially smaller cuts such as steaks or chops, 
or for fricassee. The flavor of browned flour and browned drippings is 
very pleasant and the gravy, which is an important accompaniment of 
braised meats, is rich and of a good color. 

Beef and veal cuts may be larded to increase the flavor and juiciness. 

Sometimes meat is soaked in a well-seasoned mixture of oil and vinegar. 
This mixture is called a marinade and the procedure is marinating. Sauer- 
braten is an example. The theory that the acid also has a tenderizing effect 
on the connective tissue may be questioned, but flavor is added. 

Herbs, spices, and vegetables may be cooked with the meat to add flavor 
and give variety. 

Browning develops flavor and aroma in braising just as it does in roast- 
ing or broiling. The rich brown color is typical of well-prepared braised 
dishes. This is one of the most important steps and care should be taken 
to brown the meat well on all sides before adding the liquid. Some cuts 
such as pork chops have fat edges, and the fat cooks out, so added fat is not 
necessary. In browning very lean cuts, fat must be added. 

Adding liquid. There may be enough juices drawn from the meat so that 
none need be added. In any event only a small amount of liquid should be 
added at a time, as the color and appearance of both meat and gravy are 
much better if the liquid in the kettle is kept to the minimum. More can be 
added if it cooks away. 

Comparative studies on braising pork chops with and without water 
showed that the chops braised without water were more desirable from the 
standpoint of aroma, texture, tenderness, quantity and quality of juice, 
and flavor of the lean. There was no difference in cooking time or cooking 
losses between the two methods. 

Scoring and pounding. Cutting the meat fibers, which is called scoring, 
and pounding the less-tender beef steaks, such as flank and round, breaks 
the connective tissue. A shorter cooking time will be required, therefore, 
to make them tender. 

Cooking temperature. After browning, the temperature should be reduced 
and the cooking continued at a temperature so low that the liquid will not 
boil. In this long slow cooking in moist heat, the connective tissue is 
hydrolized (softened) and the meat becomes tender. A high temperature, 



COOKERY METHOD 



BRAISING 



77 



on the other hand, dissolves the connective tissue to a point where it will 
no longer hold the muscle fibers together and the meat will be stringy and 
difficult to slice. A high temperature causes increased shrinkage and dries 
out the meat. 

Cooking time. A pot-roast, weighing three to five pounds, requires forty 
to fifty minutes per pound to reach an internal temperature of 170° -200° F. 
In braising, the total cooking time must not only be long enough to reach 
this internal temperature, but sufficient time must be given to soften the 
connective tissue. It should be remembered, therefore, that internal tem- 
perature and time of cooking are both concerned in making the less-tender 
cuts tender. 

Braising in the oven. A pot-roast or other braised meat dish may be 
cooked in the oven. This may be convenient when the oven is to be used 
for cooking other foods at the same time, but if the meat only is to be 
cooked, it is more economical of fuel to cook on a surface burner. The 
method is the same in either case, and the term bake should not be used to 
designate meat dishes cooked in moist heat, even though the cooking takes 
place in the oven. Sometimes the term, surface burner roasting, is used 
when cooking a pot-roast on top of the range, but this is not true roasting, 
because the kettle is covered and there is moisture present. 

Cuts Cooked by Braising 

Many beef cuts are cooked by braising, because thev contain considerable 
amounts of connective tissue. Pork must be cooked thoroughly in order to 
bring out the rich flavor. For this reason small cuts of pork such as steaks 
and chops are better if cooked by braising instead of by broiling or pan- 
broiling. (See Lesson Six.) The abundant, though tender, connective tissue 

Table 10 — Cuts Cooked by Braising 



Beef 


Pokk 


Lamb 


Veal 


Neck 


Rib chops 


Breast 


Breast 


Fore shank 


Loin (-Imps 


Neck slices 


Steak 


Chuck 


Shoulder steaks 


Shank 


Rib chops 


Brisket 


Tenderloin 


Shoulder 


Loin chops 


Plate 


Steaks from leg 


Shoulder chops 


Shoulder chops 


Short rihs 


Heart 


Heart 


Shoulder 


Flank steak 


Liver 


Kidney 


Cuts from leg 


Heel of round 


Kidney 


Liver 


Heart 


Round steak 






Kidney 


Rump 






Liver 


Oxtails 








Heart 








Kidney 








Liver 









TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 




Blade Pot-roast of Beef. 




Veal Rump Pot-roast. 




Rolled Breast of Lamb. 

Fk;. 24. Cuts Cookeu b\ Buaisinc. 



present in veal and the lack of fat, make 
braising the best method for cooking veal 
steaks and chops. Table 10 gives a list of 
the meat cuts which should be or may be 
cooked by braising. 

Methods of Braising 

The aim in braising is to produce a 
piece of meat which is evenly browned 
on the exterior, tender and juicy, with no 
stringiness. Meat cuts which are braised 
are always cooked to the well-done stage 

Pot-roasts. Use a heavy iron or alumi- 
num kettle which has a tight fitting lid. 
Heat the kettle very hot with high heat. 
Add about two tablespoons of fat, unless 
there is considerable fat on the meat it- 
self. The meat may be floured before 
browning, if desired. Brown well on all 
sides. Season with salt and pepper and 
add any other desired seasoning. Add a 
small amount of liquid, not more than 
one cup : more may be added later, a little 
at a time. Slip a rack under the meat, as 
this keeps it from becoming too brown 
and hard on the underneath surface. 
Cover closely, reduce the temperature 
and continue cooking until the meat is 
tender. 

The procedure is the same if the cook- 
ing is to be done in the oven. Preheat the 
o\en to 500° F., and brown the meat, or 
brown on top of the range and then trans- 
fer to the oven which has been preheated 
to 300° F., add liquid, cover, and con- 
tinue cooking at this temperature until 
the meat is tender. 

Steaks. There are several beef steaks 
which come from the less-tender sections; 
these should be braised. It is a common 
practice to pound flour into the beef 
steaks which are to be cooked by this 
method in order to break the connective 



COOKERY METHOD 



BRA IS 1 NG 



79 



tissue. Cutting the fibers criss-cross or 
scoring is done also for the same pur- 
pose. In many markets, cube steaks are 
sold. These are small steaks which have 
been scored by a cubing machine. 

Heat a heavy frying-pan very hot and 
add a little fat. Dredge steak well with 
seasoned flour and brown on both sides. 
Add a little liquid and cook, covered, at a 
reduced temperature until the steak is 
tender. If a rack has not been placed 
under the steak, it will be necessary to 
turn it frequently so that it will cook 
evenly. Add more liquid, a little at a time, 
as needed. 

Veal steaks usually are floured or they 
may be breaded. (See method for breaded 
chops. ) It is not necessary to pound or 
score veal steaks. The method of braising 
is the same as given before for beef. Sour 
cream or tomato juice may be used as 
the liquid, and are especially good with 
veal. Sour cream adds fat which the veal 
needs, and the acid of both sour cream 
and tomatoes adds flavor and may in- 
crease tenderness. Veal chops are cooked 
like veal steaks. 

Steaks, spread with dressing and rolled 
and tied into shape, or small pieces made 
into beef or veal birds are simply varia- 
tions of steaks cooked by braising. Beef 
flank steak is excellent stuffed. 

Breaded chops. Pork and veal chops 
and steaks may be breaded before brais- 
ing. Season the meat with salt and pep- 
per. Dip in flour, then in beaten egg. 
and then turn the chops or steaks around 
in fine cracker crumbs which should 
cover them completely. The breaded 
chops may be placed in the refrigerator 
to chill before cooking. The coating will 
stick better. Brown the chops in hot 
lard to a golden brown. Reduce the heat; 




Bee! Flank Steak. 




Veal Round Steak or Cutlet. 




- - 



Sirhiin Veal Steak. 




Pork Shoulder Steak. 

Fig. 25. Steaks Cooked by Braising. 



80 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 




■ <& 
Lamb Neck Slices. 
Fig. 26. Chops Cooked by Braising. 



add just enough liquid to create steam 
around the meat. Cover and continue to 
cook slowly until the meat is tender. 
When cooking a large number of breaded 
chops, it saves time to brown them in 
deep fat and then transfer them to anothei 
utensil for the rest of the cooking. 

Pork chops. Heat heavy frying-pan 
until very hot. Add about one tablespoon 
of fat, or if the chops have a good cover- 
ing of fat, place the chops with the fat 
edge down. This browns the fat and, at 
the same time, enough fat is cooked out 
of the chops to grease the frying-pan. 
Brown chops nicely on both sides. Do not 
add any water. Reduce the heat, cover 
closely, and cook slowly until the chops 
are thoroughly done. Turn the chops oc- 
casionally so that they will cook uni- 
formly. 

Pork tenderloin, cut in slices and flat- 
tened out with a cleaver, called Frenched, 
is cooked in the same way. 

Table 11 gives approximate cooking 
time for braising various cuts. 



Gravies and Sauces 

The gravy or sauce is a very important 
part of the well-braised meat dish, be- 
cause in cooking by moist heat, there is a 
certain amount of flavor lost to the drip- 
pings. By using the drippings to make 
gravy, the meat flavor, and also the nu- 
trients which are in the drippings, are 
conserved. 

Directions for making gravy. 

Drain off excess fat, retaining two table- 
spoons for each cup of gravy required. 
Add two tablespoons of flour for each two 
tablespoons of fat. Blend the flour and 
the fat and stir until it becomes a rich 
brown, being careful it does not burn. 



COOKERY METHOD 



BRAISING 



Bl 



Since the flour will not brown after the liquid has been added, any browning 
must be done before. Usually the drippings will be brown enough to give 
the gravy an attractive color without further browning after the flour has 
been added. Add one cup cold liquid for each two tablespoons of flour. 
It is more difficult to make gravy with hot liquid, because the flour cooks 
before the gravy can be stirred smooth. The liquid may be water, milk, or 
meat stock. Stir constantly until the liquid boils and the flour is cooked. 
Season with salt and pepper. 

The proportions of fat and flour to liquid are the same as those in 
medium white stock. 

Sometimes the flour is blended with a little liquid before adding to the 
meat juices. This method of making gravy is used when it is a question of 
thickening the liquid in which the meat was cooked, as in stews. 



Table 11 — Timc-Table for Braising 



Cut 


Average Weight 
or Thickness 


Approximate 
Cooking Time 


Beef 

Pot-roast 


3-5 pounds 

1H-2 Y inches 

2 inch cubes 

Yi inch (x 2 in. x 4 in.) 

Pieces (2 in. x 2 in. x 4 in.) 

% inch 

Y-% inch 

%-\Y inches 
2-3 pounds 

%-\ pound 
Y% inch 
% inch 

2-3 pounds 
13^-2 pounds 
% inch 
Y% pound each 

3-4 pounds 

2-3 pounds 

Yi inch (x 2 in. x 4 in.) 

Y-% inch 

Y-% inch 

Y-% inch 

Y-% inch 


3-4 hours 


Swiss steak 


2-3 hours 


Fricassee 


13-^ hours 


Beef birds 

Short ribs 

Round steak 


13^ hours 
\Y hours 
45-60 minutes 


Stuffed steak 


\Y hours 


Pork 

Chops 


45-60 minutes 


Spareribs 

Tenderloin 

Whole 


13^ hours 
45-60 minutes 


Fillets 


30 minutes 


Shoulder steak 


30-45 minutes 


Lamb 

Breast — stuffed 


13^-2 hours 


Breast — rolled 

Neck slices 


13-^-2 hours 
1 hour 


Shanks 

Veal 

Breast — stuffed . ' 

Breast — rolled 


1-1 Y hours 

13-^-2 hours 
13/6-2 hours 


Birds 


45-60 minutes 




45-60 minutes 


Chops — breaded 


45-60 minutes 


Steaks or cutlets 


45-60 minutes 


Shoulder chops 


45-60 minutes 







IH LESSON NUMBER EIGHT ||| 

7/lelnoas of llleat Cooxery — Looking in vi/ater 



COOKING in water is the method used in preparing both stews and 
large pieces of meat. This term has been adopted by the Committee on 
Preparation of the National Cooperative Meat Investigations. According 
to former terminology, stewing was used to designate the method for cook- 
ing meat cut into small pieces and cooking in water, or simmering, desig- 
nated the preparation of large pieces such as ham, corned beef, etc. The 
only difference between stewing and simmering is the size of the pieces of 
meat and not in the cookery principle. It is a moist heat method and used 
in the preparation of the less-tender cuts although tender cuts also are 
cooked in water. 

Stews 

A stew is a dish made of small, uniform pieces of meat simmered in 
liquid, with or without vegetables. 

Stews offer an opportunity for introducing variety into the menu since 
there are so many different combinations of meats and vegetables as well 
as ways of serving. The secret of a successful stew is to cook it properly 
and to serve it attractively. 

Cuts for Steivs 

One of the advantages of this method of cooking is that the thin irregular 
sections of beef, lamb, and veal may be divided into small uniform pieces, 
usually about two-inch cubes; sometimes into cubes as small as one inch. 
Pork is not used in stew. Table 12 lists the cuts which may be used in mak- 
ing stews. The illustrations on page 83 show how some of these cuts look 
before thev have been made into stew meat. 

An attractive way to cut lamb or veal breast for stew is to have the 
breast bone removed and then cut down between the ribs, making uniform 
pieces called riblets. This manner of cutting does away with bone splinters. 

Methods for Making Steivs 

Stews should be made in a utensil with a tight fitting lid. There is less 
danger of scorching if the kettle is fairly heavy. An aluminum or iron 
Dutch oven may be used, as may a casserole: the latter is convenient when the 
cooking is to be done in the oven. 

82 



STEWING AND SI M M E R I N G 



83 



Variety in stews. There are a great 
number of ways of adding variety to 
stews: The procedure in cooking, the sea- 
soning, the combination of vegetables, the 
accompaniments, and manner of serving. 

Type of stew. There are two types of 
stew: (1) Broun stew and (2) light stew. 
In the former the meat is browned before 
the water is added, and in the latter it is 
not browned. 

Seasoning. By the judicious use of sea- 
sonings, infinite variety may be obtained. 
Some of the herbs and spices used in sea- 
soning stews are: Bay-leaf, celery seed 
and celery salt, parsley, thyme, marjo- 
ram, cloves, pepper-corns, and curry 
powder. The vegetables cooked with the 
meat vary the flavor. 

Vegetables. Different combinations of 
vegetables may be used with quite differ- 
ent results. Cabbage, cauliflower, Brus- 
sels sprouts, onions, celery, green pep- 
pers, tomatoes, lima, navy, and string 
beans, potatoes, peas, turnips, and many 
others give ample opportunity to serve 
distinctive stews. The vegetables should 
be uniform in size or cut uniformly. 

In selecting the vegetable to go into a 
stew thought should be given to color, 
shape, texture, and flavor. Color con- 
trasts make a more attractive platter. Con- 
trasts in shape may be obtained by cut- 
ting carrots in lengthwise, instead of 
crosswise strips, and celery in three or 
four-inch lengths. Vegetables of different 
texture should be chosen; for example, 
potatoes and turnips or rutabagas have 
very much the same soft texture and need 
the crispness of carrots, celery, or string 
beans. Turnips, cabbage, onions, Brussels 
sprouts all have a strong flavor, therefore, 
not more than one or two of these should 
be used at one time. 





Breast of Veal. 




Breast of Lamb. 




Heel of Beef Round. 

Fig. 27. Cits Used for Stews. 



84 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 



Accompaniments. Dumplings, baking powder biscuits, noodles, spa- 
ghetti, and macaroni may be served as accompaniments with stew. In this 
case, potatoes need not be included, as any of these will take the place of 
a starchy vegetable. 

Manner of serving. The attractiveness of a stew depends not only on 
cooking it properly, but on the manner in which the dish is served. 
Arrangement of meat and vegetables on the platter should be made with 
an eye to harmony of color and shape. The stew may be cooked in a 
casserole and topped with pastry or baking powder biscuits, for a meat 
pie is really a stew. 

Brown stew. The pieces of meat may be floured or unfloured. Brown 
the meat well in hot fat. Season with salt and pepper. Add water, just to 
cover. The water may be either hot or cold. Cover and cook at a simmering 
temperature until the meat is tender. It will require one and one-half to 
two hours. If vegetables are cooked with the meat, they should be added 
just long enough before serving to insure their being done. Remove the 
vegetables and meat. Arrange on a platter. Thicken the liquid with flour 
smoothed in water. Serve the gravy in a separate dish. 

Light stew. A light stew is made in exactly the same way as a brown 
stew except that the meat is not browned. 

Cooking in Water 

Whether large or small pieces of meat are being cooked, the water in the 
kettle should be kept at a simmering temperature which is about 185° F. 
Meat should never be boiled. 

Table 12 — Cuts Used for Stews 



Beef 


Lamb 


Veal 




Fore shank 




Neck 


Neck 




Neck 




Breast 


Breast 




Brisket 




Shoulder 


Shoulder 




Plate 




Flank 


Flank 




Short ribs 




Kidney 


Kidney 




Chuck 










Flank 










Heel of round 








Kidney 











Results of Studies on Cooking in Water 

Fundamentals of cooking in water. The experimental work on cook- 
ing in water has been done on smoked hams. Some of the results are given 
in the following paragraphs. 



STEWING AND SIMMERING 



85 



Temperatures. The reason for maintaining a simmering temperature 
when cooking in water is the same as for a low temperature in any other 
method of meat cookery. Boiling meat for the long period required in this 
method would dissolve the connective tissue completely, leaving nothing 
to hold the muscle fibers together; consequently the meat becomes stringy 
and dry and impossible to carve in nice slices. Excessive coagulation ot 
the protein squeezes out the meat juices and with them the meat flavors. 
Food value is lost to the water, and, since the broth is not always used, 
soluble salts and protein are not conserved in the gravy, as in the case in 
braising and stewing. 

Cooking period. The time required to cook ham by simmering depends 
upon the way the ham was processed. The internal temperature usually 
given in time-tables for cooking ham is 170° F. The temperature mentioned 
refers to hams cured and smoked according to methods which formerly were 
used entirely. However, many hams now on the market are smoked to a higher 
internal temperature, and thus they are made tender. Obviously this ham 
requires less cooking by the housewife than was formerly the case. The house- 
wife should ascertain at the retail market which type of ham she has pur- 
chased and if it is the one described above, cook it according to the directions 
which accompany it. (See Table 14 for time of cooking.) 

Cooking losses. Hams lose less weight in simmering than by any other 
method. The temperature at which hams are cooled affects the shrinkage. 
Studies showed that hams cooled at 35° F., gained slightly in weight, while 
those cooled at room temperature, 70°F., lost nearly 9 per cent. 

Cuts Cooked in Water 

In general, cooking in water is used to a greater extent in the prepara- 
tion of cured pork and beef cuts than for fresh cuts. While fresh beef is 



Table 13 — Large Cuts Cooked in Water 



Beef 


Pork 


Veal 


Fresh 


Cured 


Neck 


Neck 


Whole ham 




Shank 


Half ham 


For Jellied Veal 


Heel of round 


Shoulder 




Plate 


Picnic shoulder 


Heart 


Brisket 


Cottage butt 


Tongue 


Short ribs 


Spareribs 




Cured or Corned 


Fresh 




Rump 


Spareribs 




Plate 


Heart 




Brisket 






Tongue 







86 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 




Smoked Picnic Shoulder. 




Cross Cut Beef Shank. 




Beef Ilrisket. 

Fie. 28. Cuts Cooked in Water. 



cooked in water, braising is the more ac- 
ceptable method because it develops a 
better flavor and a more attractive ap- 
pearance. Lamb is seldom cooked by this 
method and veal only as a preliminary 
step in making jellied veal. Some of the 
organs, such as tongue and heart of all 
meat animals, are cooked in water. (See 
Table 13.) 



Cooking Large Cuts in Water 

Meat cooked in water should be tender 
and juicy and should hold together when 
sliced. 

The kettle used for this purpose should 
be large enough so that the meat cut will 
be completely immersed in water. 

Some cured cuts may need to be soaked 
for several hours before cooking. This is 
true of corned beef, home-cured hams, 
and smoked shoulder cuts of pork. High 
grade commercial hams need no soaking. 

Smoked pork cooked in water. 

Place the cut in a kettle filled with water 
to cover the meat. Simmer until the meat 
is tender. 

When done, the surface of the cut may 
be covered with brown sugar and flour, 
or other mixture for glazing, and placed 
in oven to brown. 

If the ham or other smoked pork is to be 
served cold without a glaze, it should be 
cooled in its liquor. 

Pressure cooker. Place the smoked 
pork cut on a rack with the rind side up. 
Add two cups of water for a 24-quart 
pressure cooker. The heat should be regu- 
lated so that a constant pressure of ten 
pounds is maintained. After the pressure 
reaches ten pounds it will require twelve 
to fifteen minutes for each pound. 



S T EWING AND SI M M K III N G 



87 



Corned beef. Soak the corned beef for twelve hours. Cover with water 
and cook at a simmering temperature. It will require three to four hours 
for a piece weighing four to six pounds. 

Fresh beef cuts. Place the meat in water and maintain a simmering 
temperature until the meat is tender. Cooking at a boiling temperature for 
ten minutes at the beginning is unnecessary because it does not prevent the 
escape of juices, as was formerly believed. Various vegetables, herbs and 
spices may be added to enhance flavor. 

Table 14 gives approximate time for cooking in water. 



Table 14 — Time-Table for Cooking in Water 



Cut 


Average 
Weight 


Approximate 

Time 

Per Pound 


Ham 


Pounds 

12-14 

10-12 

6-8 

12-14 

10-12 

6-8 

4-8 

4-6 

4-6 


Minutes 
20 




25 


Half 


30 


Ham * 


15 




20 


Half 


25 




45 




40-50 




40-50 







*Hams now on market which require shorter cooking period due to method 
of processing. 



Making Soup 

Cooking in water is the method used in making soup or meat stock. The 
purpose is to obtain a rich broth by extracting as much flavor as possible 
from the meat. It should be remembered that the meat used in making 
soup retains much of its food value and may be used as any left-over meat 
by supplying flavor through the addition of seasonings. The broth con- 
tains soluble proteins, fat, minerals, and gelatin. The gelatin gives the broth a 
jelly-like consistency and adds body and richness. Some of the fat is 
absorbed in the broth, the rest may be skimmed off. 

The place of soup in the diet depends upon its quality of stimulating 
the appetite and increasing the flow of the digestive juices rather than upon 
its actual food value. This is the reason for serving soup at the beginning 



88 TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 

of the meal. The water content of all kinds of soups is high and the food 
value is low. When meat and vegetables are served with the broth, the food 
value of the soup is increased. 

Cuts Used in Soup Making 

The less-demanded cuts should be used in soup making not only because 
these cuts are economical, but because they are rich in extractives and con- 
tain collagen and bone. Gelatin is formed by the action of hot water on the 
collagen and the softer part of the bones. Veal has less extractives and fat and 
so it usually is cooked with beef in order to obtain broth with a rich flavor. 
The broth from beef cuts, such as plate, brisket, and short ribs may be 
used as soup, but as a rule these cuts are not purchased for making soup, 
but for a meat dish. The shank is desirable for soup making because there 

Table 15 — Cuts for Making Soup 



Beef 


Veal 


Lam it 


Neck 

Fore shank 
Knuckle bone 
Hind shank 


Neck 

Shank 

Breast 


Neck 

Shank 

Breast 



are more tendons near a joint and these tendons contain collagen, which 
is converted into gelatin. The bones also contain collagen, especially those 
of a young animal, such as veal. Smoked ham shanks often are used to 
flavor bean or pea soups; otherwise pork is not used in soup making. (See 
Table 15 for cuts used in soup making.) 

Methods of Making Soup Stock 

Soup stock is used as the base of many soups and gravies, and sauces 
as well. Since the object is to make a rich, highly flavored stock, as much 
meat as possible should be cut from the bone before cooking. Soaking 
the meat in cold, salted water before cooking is sometimes recommended 
in order to extract more of the meat flavor. This probably accomplishes 
very little, and so is unnecessary. Usually it is recommended that the meat 
be put on in cold water and brought gradually to a simmering tempera- 
ture. Analyses of broth started in cold water and in boiling water showed 
that the composition of the two broths is very much the same. The tempera- 
ture of the water at the start appears to make very little difference in the 
results obtained. 

Seasonings for soups. Vegetables, herbs, and spices are used to sea- 
son soup stock. These are given below. All are not used in the preparation 
of every kind of soup; however, in households where it is the practice to 
make soup stock, a supply of herbs and spices should be kept on hand. 






STEWING AND SIMMERING 89 

Herbs and spices: Allspice, bay-leaf, celery salt, chives, cloves, mace, 
marjoram, parsley, paprika, black and white pepper, onion salt, savory, 
sweet basil, and thyme. 

Vegetables or soup greens: Celery, carrots, beans, peas, green peppers, 
onion, tomatoes, potatoes, okra. 

Vegetables may be cut in small cubes or in matchdike strips, called 
Julienne. When cut Julienne, the vegetables usually are cooked separately 
until just tender and then added to hot, clarifisd stock. Vegetables should 
never be cut coarsely, especially if they are to be served in the soup, as in 
vegetable soup. 

There are three types of soup stock which differ in the kind of meat 
used, the seasonings, and to a certain extent in the method of preparation. 

Brown stock. Brown stock is made from beef or other meat which has 
been browned. This gives color to the stock and helps develop flavor. 

To make brown soup stock, cut the meat from the bone and brown. 
Place both meat and bone in salted water and simmer for three or four 
hours to extract as much flavor and meat juices as possible. The seasonings 
and vegetables may be added with the meat, but the vegetables will have 
a better flavor and color if they are added after the meat fibers begin to 
fall apart. 

White stock. White stock is made from veal or chicken or a combina- 
tion of the two. The meat is not browned and the stock is seasoned deli- 
cately. Otherwise it is made in the same way as brown stock. 

Lamb or mutton stock. In making this stock the lean and bone of 
either lamb or mutton may be used, but most of the fat is discarded. Part 
of the meat mav be browned. Lamb stock is called broth, and is the basis 
of Scotch broth. The meat is cut in cubes and served in the broth with 
barley and vegetables. Scotch broth is a hearty soup and is quite thick. 

Clear soups. Soup stock contains flocculent material which is largely 
coagulated proteins. If the stock is to be used for a clear soup or a spark- 
ling soup, it must be clarified. 

Bouillon. Bouillon is made from brown soup stock, freed of fat, sea- 
soned with herbs and spices, and clarified. 

Consomme. This is a clear soup, usually made from a combination of 
two or more kinds of meat, such as beef, veal, and fowl. It is highly sea- 
soned, strained, and clarified. 

Jellied soup. Bouillon or consomme may be served cold as jellied soup. 
Meat with bone should be used in making stock for jellied soup, because 
of the large amount of connective tissue in and near the bone, which is 
converted into gelatin on heating. Veal shank is excellent for making 
jellied soups because, being from a young animal, the bones contain more 
collagen. Gelatin to make a one per cent solution may be add to bouillon 
or consomme which will not jell. 



90 TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 

Sparkling soup. A sparkling soup is one which has been clarified very 
carefully, according to directions given below. 

How to Clarify Soup Stock 

To make a clear soup, the stock should be strained through several thick- 
nesses of cheese cloth. It should be cooled very rapidly to prevent spoilage. 
Upon cooling the fat will solidify into a cake on top of the broth. In this con- 
dition it is easily removed and may be used for frying or seasoning vegetables. 

In making a sparkling soup the stock must be clarified still further. 
Remove the cake of fat from the stock and wipe with a warm damp cloth 
to get off the extra bits of fat. Add the white of one egg, beaten slightly, 
and the crumpled shell to the cold stock. This will clarify at least one 
quart. Heat slowly to the boiling point, stirring constantly. As the egg 
white coagulates, it collects the fine particles which would go through the 
cheesecloth. When the boiling point is reached, stop stirring and boil for five 
minutes. Strain again through several thicknesses of warm, damp cheesecloth. 

Care of Soup Stock 

Since it is the usual practice to make soup stock for several meals, care 
should be taken to keep the remainder from spoiling, because it sours 
readily. After straining, the stock should be cooled quickly in an un- 
covered container; then it should be covered and stored in a cold place. 
The cake of fat which forms over the surface will exclude the air and 
retard spoilage. This fat should not be removed until stock is to be used. 

If the soup stock is to be kept more than two days, it should be boiled 
for a few minutes, then cooled and returned to the refrigerator. This will 
sterilize the stock and it will keep for a day or so longer, or it may be 
preserved by canning. 



1 



LESSON NUMBER NINE %jg& 

llleat Specialties, Sausages ana JLard 



Meat Specialties 

THE TERM meat specialties is applied to those edible parts of beef, 
veal, pork, and lamb which cannot be classed with the regular cuts. 
They are known variously as "extra edible parts," "fancy meats," "meat 
sundries," etc. (See Table 16.) 

The use of the different meat specialties is recommended because they 
offer a means of introducing variety into meals. They are economical. 
They contribute the same essential food elements found in muscle meats, 
and in some cases are extraordinary sources of certain nutrients. 

Methods of Cooking 

The methods of preparing meat specialties are determined by their par- 
ticular characteristics. Because of their physical structure, they do not fall 
naturally under the head of those which may be cooked by moist heat or 
those which may be cooked by dry heat, as do muscle meats. Also some 
preparation preliminary to cooking usually is necessary. 

Brains and Sweetbreads 

Brains and sweetbreads are much alike in tenderness and texture. They 
require the same preliminary preparation and are cooked and served in 
the same ways. Brains and sweetbreads do not keep well, therefore, they 
should be used soon after they are purchased. If not. they should be pre- 
cooked. This pre-cooking is often called parboiling, but since a tempera- 
ture below the boiling point is used, pre-cooking is the more exact term. 
For some methods of cooking, and if used soon after purchase, pre-cooking 
is not necessary. 

Sweetbreads are the thymus glands of beef, calf, and lamb. They consist 
of two parts, the heart sweetbread and the throat sweetbread. As the beef 
animal matures, the thymus gland disappears; beef sweetbreads, therefore, 
come from young beef. 

Pre-cooking. Soak brains or sweetbreads in cold water. Remove mem- 
brane. Simmer for fifteen minutes in water to which one teaspoon of salt 

91 



92 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 



and one tablespoon of lemon juice or vinegar have been added for each 
quart of water used. Drain and drop into cold water. The acid helps to 
keep them white. The brains or sweetbreads are thoroughly cooked, and 
any further preparation is for the purpose of attractive service. 

Further preparation. There are a number of ways in which brains 
may be prepared after pre-cooking: (1) Broken into small pieces and 
scrambled with eggs; (2) reheated in a rich cream sauce or a well- 
seasoned tomato sauce; (3) dipped in egg and crumbs and fried in a small 
amount of fat or in deep fat until a delicate golden brown; (4) made into 
croquettes; (5) in salad; (6) dipped in melted butter and broiled. 

Sweetbreads may be used in much the same way as brains. They are 
often creamed with chicken or veal. They are used in salads. 

Table 16 — Meat Specialties 



Name 


Characteristics 


Cooking Methods 


Brains 

Calf, Lamb, 
Pork, Beef 


Very tender, soft in consistency. 


Pre-cook 
Cream 
Scramble 
Fry 


Hearts 

Calf, Lamb, 
Pork, Beef 


Muscular organ wbicb has had con- 
siderable exercise. Beef heart larg- 
est. Boneless, high percentage edible. 


Stuff and braise 
Cook in water 


Kidneys 
Calf, Lamb, 
Pork, Beef 


Considered great delicacy. Veal kid- 
neys sometimes cut with chops; lamb 
kidneys sometimes enclosed in Eng- 
lish chops. Or all may be sold sepa- 
rately. 


Cook in water 

Stew 
Broil 


Liver 

Calf, Lamb, 
Pork, Beef 


Beef liver largest and less tender than 
others. All have same high food 
value. 


Braise 

Fry 

Broil 


Oxtails 
Beef 


Well-flavored. Considerable bone. 


Soup 
Braise 


Sweetbreads 
Calf, Beef, 
Lamb 


Great delicacy. Tender. Thymus gland 
of calf, young beef and lamb. Divided 
into two parts: Heart and throat 
sweetbreads. 


Braise 

Fry 

Broil 


Tripe 
Beef 


First and second stomachs of beef. 
Smooth and honeycomb tripe; latter 
preferred. May be purchased fresli. 
pickled, or canned. 


Pre-cook 
Broil 
Fry 


Tongue 

Calf, Lamb, 
Pork, Beef 


Beef and Calf tongue are both a desir- 
able size for household use. Pork 
and lamb tongues are usually sold 
in a ready-to-serve form. Tongue 
may be purchased fresh, pickled, 
corned, or smoked. Boneless, high 
percentage of lean meat. 


Cook in water 



SPECIALTIES, SAUSAGES, AND LARD 



<J3 



Preparation without pre-cooking. Both brains and sweetbreads may 
be cooked by braising without pre-cooking. They are soaked as usual and 
membranes removed. They are floured or rolled in cracker crumbs and 
browned in fat, then covered and cooked slowly for about twenty minutes. 

A popular method 
of serving braised 
sweetbreads is with 
ham under glass, 
& called sous cloche. 




m& 



" _,'. --r 



Fic. 29. Brains: (left to right) Lamb, pork, veal, beef. 



Hearts and 
Tongues 

Both heart and 
tongue are parts 
which have received 
considerable exer- 
cise and, therefore, are the least tender of the meat specialties. For this 
reason, heart and tongue require the same cooking methods. 

Calf, lamb, and pork hearts are tenderer than beef heart. They also are 
smaller. One beef heart is sufficient for the average family. A lamb heart 
will make a good individual serving; pork heart will serve one to two per- 
sons, and a calf heart will serve two. Calf and beef tongues are desirable 
from the standpoint of size. Pork and lamb tongues are small and usually 
are sold ready to serve. Tongue is sold fresh, pickled, corned, or smoked. 

Preparation for cooking. Heart should be washed thoroughly in 
plenty of warm wa- 
ter. Some of the ar- 
teries and veins may 
be cut away. Soaking 
in sour milk helps to 
lviake the heart ten- 
der. Tongue, too, 
should be washed 
thoroughly in warm 
water. Smoked or 
pickled tongue 
should be soaked for 
several hours before Fig. 30. Sweethueads: Cleft to right) Lamb, veal, beef. 




Cooking heart. Cooking in water and braising are the two methods 
used in preparing heart. 

Cooking in water. Cover heart with water to which one teaspoon of salt 
for each quart of water has been added. Cook at a simmering temperature 
(185°F.) until tender. Beef hearts require about three to three and one- 
half hours and veal, lamb, or pork hearts about two and one-half hours. 



94 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 



Braising. Brown the heart on all sides in a small amount of fat. Add a 
very small amount of liquid. Season with salt and pepper, cover closely, 
and continue cooking at a low temperature, either in a moderate oven 
(350°F.) or on top of the range. It will require one and one-half to two 
and one-half hours for lamb, calf, and pork hearts, and two and one-half 
to three and one-half hours for beef. The hearts may be stuffed with a 
savory bread dressing before braising. 

Cooking tongue. 
Cooking in water or 
simmering is the 
method by which 
tongue is always pre- 
pared. After tongue 
is cooked by this 
method, it may be 
reheated, either 
whole or sliced, in 
a spicy sauce. 

Cooking in water. 
Cover fresh tongue 
with salted water 
(one teaspoon salt for each quart of water). Spices and vegetables may be 
added for seasoning. Cover and cook at a simmering temperature (185°F.) 
until tongue is tender. It will require three to four hours for a large beef 
tongue. 

After the tongue is tender, remove the skin and cut away the roots. 
Plunging the tongue into cold water after cooking helps to loosen the skin. 
If the tongue is to be served cold, it should be cooled in the water in which 
it was cooked as it will be juicier. 




Fig. 31. Tongues: (left to right) Beef, veal, pork, lamb. 



Liver 

Liver is tender, but like the other meat specialties requires some prepara- 
tion for cooking. 

Preparation for cooking. If liver is to be cooked in a large piece 
by braising, it should be soaked in cold, salted water for a half hour and 
the outside membrane should be peeled off. Pork and lamb liver should be 
scalded before cooking; beef and calf liver need not be. 

If liver is to be ground or chopped, it should be dropped into boiling 
water and simmered gently for a few minutes. This makes grinding much 
easier. Liver patties, wrapped in bacon and broiled, and baked liver loaf 
are two excellent ways of preparing liver. 

Sliced liver, which is to be broiled, should be dipped in melted butter or 
marinated in a well-seasoned French dressing, made with one part vinegar 
to two parts oil. 



SPEC! \ III I. S, SAUSAGES, AND LARD 



95 



Cooking liver. Liver may be prepared in a number of different ways. 
Braising. Dredge with flour a piece of liver of the desired size. Brown 
in bacon fat. Add desired seasonings. Cubed vegetables, such as carrots, 
celery, and onion, may be cooked with the liver. Place the vegetables in a 
casserole with the liver on top. Add one-half cup of liquid, cover and cook 
on top of range or in a slow oven (300° F.), about thirty minutes per pound. 

Sliced liver may 
be braised also. Dip 
the slices, cut one- 
half inch thick, in 
flour. Season with 
salt and pepper. 
Brown on both sides 
in hot lard or bacon 
drippings, reduce 
the temperature, 
cover the frying-pan, 
and cook until ten- 
der, about twenty 
minutes. 

Broiling. Have 

liver sliced one-half 

to three-fourths inch 

thick. Broil at a moderate temperature, just long enough to change color. 

It requires about three minutes to each side. 

Squares of liver alternated with squares of bacon may be threaded onto 
a skewer and broiled. This is called en brochette. 

Deep fat frying. Have the liver cut in long, thin strips. Marinate for 
thirty minutes or longer in French dressing (two parts oil to one part 
vinegar). Fry in deep fat, hea f ed to 360°F., until nicely browned. The 
iiver may be dipped in egg and crumbs before frying. 

Frying. Sliced liver may be fried in a small amount of fat. This method 
gives very good results, if done carefully. Too long cooking and too high a 
temperature harden liver and destroy its flavor. 

Have the liver sliced one-half to three-fourths inch thick. Roll in sea- 
soned flour and place in a frying-pan with a small amount of fat. After 
the liver is nicely browned on both sides, reduce the temperature and con- 
tinue cooking until the liver is done. It does not take much more time than 
is required to brown it. It is better to cook beef liver by braising than by 
frying, because it is less tender than the other livers. 




Fie. 32. Hearts: (left to right) Lamb, pork, veal, beef. 



Kidneys 

Kidneys are prized highly by the epicure. Kidney stew, steak and kidnev 
pie, and many other kidney dishes have become famous. The chef recog- 



96 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 




Fig. 33. Livers: Top left, lamb; bottom left, beef; top right, 
pork; bottom right, veal. 



nizes the value of the delicacy and flavor of kidneys and the housewife 
can profit by his example and use kidneys more frequently in her menus. 

Preparation for 
cooking. The kid- 
neys should be 
washed and the outer 
membrane removed; 
then split through 
the center and the 
fat and heavy veins 
removed. Marinat- 
ing in a well-sea- 
soned French dress- 
ing will improve 
them in flavor. 

Methods of 
cooking. Beef kid- 
ney is less tender 
than veal, pork, or 
lamb kidneys and so should be cooked by moist heat — by cooking in water 
or braising. The others are tender enough to be broiled. 

Cooking in water. Prepare beef kidneys and place in water to cover. 
Cook at a simmering temperature until tender, about one hour. The water 
should be changed several times during cooking. The kidneys may be 
served in a well-seasoned sauce, or they may be dipped in egg and crumbs 
and fried in deep fat. 

All kidneys are excellent in stew, either alone or in combination 
with beef. 

Split the kidneys or slice thin. The latter makes a more attractive stew. 
Chop an onion and cook gently in fat. Roll the pieces of kidney in flour 
seasoned with salt, pepper, and paprika. Brown the kidney in the fat. 
Add water or brown stock to just cover, cover the kettle, and simmer 
gently until the kidney is tender, about forty-five minutes. Add small 
potatoes or potato balls about twenty minutes before serving time. 

Creole Kidney is a highly seasoned stew. Steak and kidney pie is another 
form of stew. The stew is transferred to a casserole and topped with pastry 
or baking powder biscuits, then placed in a hot oven (450° F.) and baked 
about fifteen minutes. English steak and kidney pie is made by cooking the 
meat for the entire time, about two hours in puff paste or short pie crust. 
Broiling. Prepare kidneys and marinate them for an hour in French 
dressing or brush with melted butter. Run the split kidney onto a skewer 
to hold flat. Broil about five minutes on each side. 

Each half of small kidneys or sections of beef kidney may be wrapped 
in slices of bacon before broiling, or they may be broiled en brochette. 



SPECIALTIES, SAUSAGES, AND LARD 



97 



Tripe 

Tripe is the muscular inner lining of the stomach of meat animals. Honey- 
comb tripe which is the lining of the second stomach of the beef is considered 
the most desirable. There is also plain or smooth tripe and the pocket honey- 
comb tripe which is shaped like a pocket and is the end of the second stomach 
lining of beef. It is smooth outside and the inside is honeycombed. Tripe may 

be purchased fresh, 
pickled, or canned. 
Fresh tripe is always 
cooked before sell- 
ing, but it needs fur- 
ther preparation. 
Cured tripe requires 
a shorter cooking 
time. 




Tripe is cooked in 
water at a simmering 
temperature until 
tender. It will re- 
quire at least an 
hour. Cooking in wa- 
ter is preliminary to 
all ways of serving: 
(1) With a well-seasoned tomato sauce, (2) brushed with melted butter and 
broiled, (3) spread with dressing and baked, (4) dipped in fritter batter 
and fried in deep fat. (5) creamed, (6) as an ingredient in pepper pot, 
which is a thick soup. 



Fk.. 34. Kidneys: Left, beef; top center, pork; bottom center 
lamb; right, veal. 



Oxtails 

Method of Cooking. Oxtails, while they have considerable bone, also 
have a goodly proportion of meat and are very rich in flavor. Oxtails re- 
quire long, slow cooking in moist heat to make them tender and are pre- 
pared in two ways. 

Soup. Chop the oxtails at each joint and wash in three or four waters. 
Make as any soup stock. The pieces of oxtail are served in the soup which 
contains barley, in addition to the usual vegetables and seasonings. 

Braising. Wash the oxtails and chop at each joint. Roll the joints in flour 
seasoned with salt and pepper. Brown well in hot lard. Add onion or other 
seasoning, vegetables, and spices. Bay-leaf and cloves are often used. After 
browning well on all sides, add a cup of water and one of tomatoes. Cover 
closelv and simmer three or four hours until the meat falls from the bones. 



98 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 



£ 



e 

3 

e 



^ 



^ 



- 
< 



V 43 J _' 

M S C ? 

E 3 "« £ 

o - g c 

>/3 -a t. 
.— ? c « 

M B « g 

o 

-3 



43 51 
O o 

2 ° E 

U O t' u 

i.s1* 






.S3 ed 

— ft: — 



■J 9 B 



-3 c 



-3 (43 w tC 



43 - c "2 

-a 3 o c 



3 g 



,5 u ac 



i.g'S S 



43 £ 


s^ 


s 


-3 CO 




m 


43 > 


■£. 43 

2-Q 


CO 


43 ^ 


43 






E co 


c 


"3.2? 


V 


sr^ 


£ E 


c 


« 







43 £ 



-, E 

43 CO 



fl »* ^ 

5 e >h 



1 o £ 2 






_C N 

-a "O * \n 

1) V'r V 
T3T) t ft 

w<<0< 



tf 



3J-0 3 

« — < O 43 

1-, - - _T 

fcCQCjS 



3 S: 43 



S & 8 

M 43 l- ... i^ rt *> 

"3 u 43 S uS M 

_ 43 a u c -o «> 

C"$ 4J ft 3 fe C 

43 o o m _c Jj co 



E 


s 






43 


b£ 




CO CO 

.3-3 


_ 




* 


en 

3 




-a-o 




c 


CJ 


CO 

co 


: 






























13 m 43 .£ £ .3 


eo 

a. 



S « « « £ 

Ja S* °-£ « 
H_l ft-s £.3 

3J= "CJ o 

-» °-S en" ~ 

"3.2? «•£, 

3 S-|2 g. 



03 r. .3 C e 

>*- •"' = "3 j- 
= ft cc_^ 

"?=■=§ 

Jo OlCt/j CO ^ 









B^= ft 1 



5 E 



— -3 c 

CO cj x co 



3 3^ 
o So 

rl » ^ 

? -2 -3 eu 

•/. £ (1 

"? '> =« " 
- ._ — 

^c2£ 

CO O S 

.i* cjp: 

.2 H sr 

3 co co 



-2 4-' 

4) ft U 

> 43 CO 

C 4- "o 

t' v ft 

^ — . 

C3 — O 



CO .ft 

_ E^ 

" CO 43 



_ - _U 43 ra co •- 



S — * 



C/3 



eu -a 
ii 43 

CO-^ 



^ w ft= 






;cj-c- 3 



QJ CO 



3 43 

CO | 



C/5 



>> CO CO 



CJ 



SPECIALTIES, SAUSAGES, AND LARD 99 



Sausages 

Sausage making is a very old art. It was known in the days of Confucius, 
the Chinese sage; and it was mentioned by the Greek poet, Homer, in the 
Odyssey. Down through the ages, different countries have made their con- 
tribution to these widely used meat products. The great variety available 
todav is due to the fact that each nation made sausages to suit its particular 
taste, and according to the limitations of climate and seasoning materials. 
As trade lanes were opened up with the Orient, new spices were brought 
back to Europe and were used in making sausages. The type of sausages 
made in the various countries of the Old World was determined very 
largely by climatic conditions. In southern Europe, sausages with extra 
keeping qualities were demanded, and this led to the development of dry 
sausages. On the other hand, the northern countries developed smoked and 
cooked sausages, because in a colder climate, these types would keep. 

The origin of many sausages is seen in their names: Bologna originated 
in Bologna, Italy; Genoa, Salami, Milano, Sorrento, Berliner, Frank- 
furter, and many others have names which associate them with cities. 

The manufacture of sausage is an important part of the packing industry. 
Pork alone, or combined with beef, is made into a great variety of sau- 
sages. In modern sausage manufacture, sausages fall under four heads: 
(1) Fresh pork sausage, (2) smoked sausage, (3) dry sausage, and (4) 
cooked specialties. In all sausages, the meat is ground, finely or coarsely, 
seasoned with various spices, and smoked, cooked, or otherwise treated, 
according to the kind. Table 17 gives the classification of sausages with a 
few- examples of the many varieties which are available. 

Lard 

About 15 per cent of the average pork carcass is rendered into lard. 
Rendering means to melt out the fat from the fatty tissues. The fatty 
tissues are cooked to break down the fat cells and drive off the moisture 
so that the resulting product, lard, is pure fat, free from connective tissue 
and containing very little moisture. 

Classification of lard. Lard is classified according to the part of the 
animal from which the fat comes and the process of rendering. 

Kettle rendered leaf lard. Leaf lard only is used. It is rendered in a 
steam- jacketed open kettle at a temperature of 230° -250° F. This lard has 
excellent keeping qualities and pleasing flavor. The texture is firm and 
grainy. It is light in color. 

Kettle rendered lard. This is made from back fat and leaf fat, usually in 
equal amounts. It is rendered in an open kettle at 240°-260°F. This lard 
has good keeping qualities. The color is light, but is likely to be a little 
darker than kettle rendered leaf lard. 



100 TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 

Prime steam lard. This type of lard is made from killing and cutting 
fats. It is rendered in a closed tank under steam pressure of from 30 to 50 
pounds. The temperature at which the lard is rendered is about 285°F. 
Most of the lard on the market falls under this classification. 

Neutral lard. Neutral lard is rendered at a very low temperature of 
about 120°F. It is made entirely from leaf fat. It is used almost entirely 
in the manufacture of oleomargarine. 

Dry rendered lard. This is essentially a kettle rendered lard except that 
a closed container is used and usually under reduced pressure. This method 
of making lard gives a product which has a fine flavor and excellent keep- 
ing quality. 

The texture in lard varies with the way in which it is cooled. Smooth 
lard is chilled rapidly by rotating a refrigerated drum in melted lard. 
Grainy lard is cooled slowly in what is called a "settling tank,''' and is 
allowed to chill in the container. 

Food Value of Lard 

Energy value. Lard is valued as a source of energy. Being 100 per cent 
fat, it furnishes more than 4,000 calories per pound, therefore, even a 
small amount of lard used in making a food product increases the energy 
value of that product. 

Digestibility. Lard is easily digested and is almost completely utilized 
by the body. Lard is 97 per cent digestible, which is the same as butter. 

Essential unsaturated fatty acids. Recent investigations have revealed 
that lard possesses nutritional value heretofore unrecognized. It has been 
found to contain essential unsaturated fatty acids. A deficiency of these 
unsaturated fatty acids in the diet results in retarded growth and certain 
skin conditions. Lard has been found to be superior to hydrogenated fats 
in this respect. 

Lard, therefore, is valuable in the diet because it is: 

1. An excellent source of energy. 

2. Easily digested 

3. Almost completely utilized 

4. A rich source of essential fatty acids 

Culinary Uses of Lard 

Lard has many uses as a cookery fat. It has an advantage over many other 
fats in that it has a wide plastic range, which simply means that lard is 
pliable and can be worked over a wide range of temperatures. It may be 
removed from the refrigerator and used immediately as it is not brittle. 

Deep fat frying. The smoking point of good lard is above 380° F., 
although this will vary with the kind of lard, the number of times it has 
been used, and the care it has received. No food needs a higher temperature 



SPECIALTIES, SAUSAGES, AN D LARD 101 

than 380° F., and many can be fried at a much lower temperature. While 
its smoking point is a little lower than that of some other fats used in deep 
fat frying, lard will show less change from time to time while being used, 
especially if care is taken not to overheat it. 

Overheating causes the formation of acrolein which has an irritating 
effect on the eyes and nose and throat. The frying life of the fat also is 
shortened. When fat is heated to the smoking point, decomposition is tak- 
ing place, therefore, the smoking temperature should never be used as an 
indication that the fat is hot enough for frying. The best way to test the 
temperature of the fat is a thermometer. Lacking a deep fat thermometer, 
use the bread cube test: Drop a one-inch cube of bread in hot lard. Fat at 
350° F., will brown bread cube in not less than one minute; at 360° F.. 
will brown in one minute; and 370° F., in about 40 seconds. 

After each use, lard should be strained through cheesecloth to remove 
any food particles. To remove very fine particles, the lard should be 
clarified by putting slices of raw potato into the kettle of cold lard and 
heating gradually until the potato is well browned, and then straining. 
When not in use the lard should be covered and stored in a cool place. 

Frying. Lard is used for frying foods such as eggs, potatoes, and other 
foods which are cooked in a small amount of fat. 

Pastry. Lard has been proved by experience and by experiment to have 
a greater shortening value than any of the plastic fats. Since the value of 
a fat for pastry making is measured in terms of its shortening power, lard 
is widely used in pies and other pastries. Lard not only produces a tender, 
but a flaky crust as well. For this reason it is valued in pastry making. 

Cakes. Recent studies on the use of lard in cake making have demon- 
strated that white cakes of fine texture and flavor can be made with lard by 
modifying the method of mixing the cake. Lard cakes have excellent keeping 
qualities, remaining moist for several days. 

Modified method for mixing lard cakes. In the modified method the pro- 
cedure is: (1) Cream the lard and sugar with a little milk (the addition of 
the milk makes creaming easier), reserving one- fourth of the sugar to beat 
with the egg whites; (2) stir egg yolks into rest of the milk (this varies from 
the usual practice of adding the eggs to the creamed sugar and lard) ; (3) 
beat egg whites until stiff and dry and add the remaining one-fourth of sugar 
and beat until the sugar just disappears: If) sift the salt (lard contains no 
salt as does butter) , flour, and baking powder together three times; I 5) add 
part of flour first, then milk and flour alternately in usual way; (6) fold 
in egg whites carefully. 

Other uses for lard. Lard may be used as the shortening in main 
other baked products. Among these are: Biscuits, hot breads, bread, cookies, 
and sriddle cakes. 



MS LESSON NUMBER TEN | 

c/Ae Ctr/ cy Carving 



MASTERY of the art of carving is an accomplishment which adds 
much to the charm and graciousness of dining. The history of carv- 
ing is a long and interesting one; and it was once a task reserved for those 
of noble lineage. The very tools which the carver uses have a background 
of history and romance. The knife, the fork, and the spoon today are simple 
household necessities, but with their story is linked many a change in food 
habits and social customs. Man has not always used these articles at the 
table. Forks have been in everyday use for less than three hundred years in 
England and America. Forks were not common in New England of colonial 
days. In property schedules of those pioneer days no mention was made of 
forks prior to 1700. When forks were introduced into England from Italy, 
they were regarded as effeminate and those who used them were derided 
with the saying, "fingers were made before forks." 

Spoons were used earlier than forks, but the host did not provide them 
for his guests. Each one brought his own spoon with him, attached to the 
scabbard which held his knife and which a little later was to hold a fork. 
The guest whose spoon was of silver was privileged to sit at the upper part 
of the table, "above the salt." If his spoon was of pewter, his place was lower. 
Probably in this custom was the origin of the old saying, "he was born with 
a silver spoon in his mouth." 

In medieval times, it was part of every young nobleman's education to 
carve and wait on table. In those days, carving was a duty and privilege 
belonging to the men exclusively, for the ladies did not appear at the banquet 
table. The work of the carver was especially important at ceremonious feasts. 
A gentleman of noble rank always performed this task and he carefully 
followed the rules. He had to be very skillful a\ ith the knife since there were 
no forks, and etiquette decreed that the meat be touched as little as possible 
with the fingers. The great roasts of beef and pork and mutton were carved 
at side tables and the choicest portion was served to those of highest rank. 
Later, it became the custom to place the food on the banquet table in 
order to make a great display of bounteous elegance, and the lady of the 
house took her place at the head of the table and carving fell to her lot. 
She considered this duty a great honor and took it very seriously. The frill on 
the lamb chop or the leg bone of ham or lamb may be traced back to one 

102 



THE ART OF CARVING 103 

of the niceties which were added when ladies first began to carve. Having 
no forks to steady the roast, the hostess of those days cut a piece of paper 
and fastened it around the bone end of the roast. 

The art of carving took on new prestige and, like other arts, it had its 
professors. In the life story of one great lady the author told that she took 
carving lessons three times a week so that she might be perfect when she did 
the honors at her father's table. And in order to perform this duty, she was 
forced to eat her own dinner an hour or two beforehand, for in her day, 
the mistress of the mansion had to carve every roast with her own hands. 
It was said, "Every joint was carried up to her in turn to be carved by her 
and her alone; since the peers and knights were not bound to offer their 
assistance. As for the crowd of guests, the most inconsiderable among them, 
if suffered through her neglect to help himself to a slice of mutton placed 
before him, would have chewed it in bitterness and gone home an affronted 
man." 

Then custom changed and it again became the fashion for the man of 
the house to do the carving. Thus carving and serving meat always has 
been and is to this day a symbol of hospitality, and so it is important, from 
that standpoint alone, that some member of the household be proficient 
in this art. 

Depending upon the style of service, carving is done either at the table 
or in the kitchen. Regardless of where it is done or who does it, careful 
carving adds to the attractiveness of the meat dish. 

Styles of service. There are three styles of service. The one used de- 
pends upon the occasion and the family's mode of living. Convenience 
and ease in carrying it out will dictate the homemaker's choice. 

Russian style. The Russian service is used only for formal meals and 
in households where there are trained servants There are two ways of 
serving food in the Russian style: (1) Individual plate service and (2) 
platter service. In the former, the plates are arranged attractively in the 
kitchen and placed before each one at the table by the waitress. In platter 
service, the waitress passes the food on appropriate platters or in serving 
dishes and each one helps himself. In either case, second helpings are 
offered by the waitress. 

For this style of service, the carving is done in the kitchen and arranged 
on the platter. Sometimes with roasts, such as ham or leg of lamb, the 
pieces are put back in the original shape. This requires considerable skill 
on the part of the carver. 

English style. This style of serving meals doubtless is a survival of 
those days when the English gentleman or lady personally served the 
guests. All the food is placed on the table for the main course and is served 
by the host and hostess. The host carves and serves the roast and the vege- 
tables which accompany the meat course. A member of the family sitting 



104 



TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 



at his right may assist him by serving vegetables or gravy. The table is 
cleared after the main course and salad, dessert, and coffee are placed in 
turn before the hostess who serves them. In this type of service, the plates 
and accompaniments are passed by members of the family, or by the maid. 

Since this style of service can be handled nicely without a maid, it is 
often referred to as "family service" or "informal service." 

Compromise style. As its name indicates, this style of service is a com- 
bination of the Russian and the English. It is less formal than the Russian 
but not so informal as the English, and a waitress is required. Some courses 
are served from the kitchen, but the main course is served by the host 
who does the carving. The waitress places the heated plates directly in 
front or at the left of the host who carves the meat. She stands at his left 
and holds a plate within easy reach for him to place upon it the meat, 
vegetables, and gravy. She then passes the filled plate, returns for a second 
and so on until all are served. The waitress passes the rolls and relishes. 
Salad and dessert may be served by the hostess or brought in from the 
kitchen on individual plates and served by the waitress. 

Setting the carver's place. The carver should have plenty of space 
and the platter, plates, and carving tools should be conveniently placed. 
Water glasses and vegetable dishes should be placed so that they will not 
be in his way. The platter is placed directly back of the dinner plates which 
are in front of the carver. The dinner plates may be placed conveniently to 
the carver's left and he removes two or three at a time and places them in 
front of himself. The vegetable dishes are at his right unless necessary to 
place one or more to his left. These should be placed either on a line parallel 
with the length of the table or at right angles to it, never on a slant. 

The platter should be two or three inches larger all around than the 
meat served on it. It may be convenient to have a second hot platter at 
hand on which to lay the slices of meat as they are carved. Garnishes should 




Fie. 35. The proper arrangement of the carver's place at the dinner table. 



THE ART OK CAR V 1 N G 105 

be such that they do not need to be removed or pushed to one side while the 
carving is being done. 

The carving knife and fork sometimes are placed at the right of the 
platter, with the fork, tines up, nearest the platter, and the knife just to 
the right of the fork with the cutting edge toward the fork. In the interests 
of sj mmetry, it is better to place the fork at the left of the platter and the 
knife at the right. The steel should not appear at the table; whetting the 
knife should be done in the kitchen before hand. The drawing on page 
104, shows the details of setting the carver's place. 

Good tools are necessary. Even the most expert carver cannot do his 
best unless he has good tools, well kept, with which to work. Carving sets 
are manufactured in a variety of shapes of blades and handles. The style 
chosen is a matter of personal preference, but the blade should be of fine 
quality steel, carefully forged and tempered so that it will take and hold 
an edge. 

Carving sets— consisting of knife, fork, and steel — come in different 
sizes. There is a large size with a nine-inch blade, used for large roasts and 
turkeys. A smaller size with an eight-inch blade also is available. This size 
is suitable for roasts and small fowl. The forks have a guard to protect 
the hands of the carver. The guard should be up when the knife is being 
drawn toward the carver. The steel is used to give a keen edge to the knife. 
A steak set consists of a knife with a six-inch blade and a fork with or 
without a guard. A knife with a long blade, called a roast beef slicer, is 
liked by many for carving this particular roast. A fork with the tines 
widely spread may be used instead of the ordinary fork to hold the roast 
in place. A large set for roasts and fowl and a steak set will meet the needs 
of the average family. 

Knives must be sharp. No one can carve satisfactorily without a sharp 
knife. The carving knife should be sharpened as often as is necessary and 
the carving set should be kept separate from the rest of the kitchen cutlery 
in order to keep the edge of the knife in good condition. It is wise practice to 
wash the carving set separately and replace after using in the box in which 
it was purchased. 

How to use the steel. The steel is used to keep the knife in condition 
and there is a technique to handling it. The steel should be held firmly in 
the left hand, thumb on top of the handle, with the point held upward and 
slightly away from the body. With the knife in the right hand, place the 
heel of the blade (where the blade enters the handle) against the top of 
the steel on the side farthest from the body. With a quick swinging motion 
of the wrist and forearm the blade is brought down and across the steel 
toward the left hand, continuing this motion until the point of the blade 
has passed over the steel. Then the knife is again brought into position, but 
this time on the side of the steel nearest the body, and with the same motion 



106 



TEN LESSONS ON .MEAT 



drawn across the steel. This 
brings both sides of the blade 
in contact with the steel. A half 
dozen strokes on each side will 
be sufficient, as a rule. Do not 
bear too heavily on the knife 
nor hold it at too great an angle 
— the edge of the knife should 
make about a 25-degree angle 
with the steel. 

A few points for the 
guest. The guest should ap- 
pear absolutely unconscious of 
the efforts of the carver. Even 
the most skilful will lose his 
confidence if he finds himself 
the focus for all eyes. The tact- 
ful hostess will engage the in- 
terest of the others so that the 
act of carving will not cause a 
pall of silence to settle over the 
company. If one's preference 
is asked, it should be stated, un- 
less one feels that others will 
make the same choice. 

Principles of Carving 

Learning to carve need not 
be a difficult task, if a few sim- 
ple principles are mastered. It 
requires practice and a knowl- 
edge of muscle structure and 
the location of the bones and 
joints. 

The host should not be called 
upon to carve meat which is 
either underdone or overdone. 
The former requires too much 
exertion and in the latter, neat 
slices cannot be made, because 
the connective tissue has been 
dissolved and the muscle fibers 
fall apart. Either eventuality is 
most disconcerting; therefore, 




Fig. 36. Steeling the Knife. Showing 
the proper position of hands, knife and 
steel in truing up the knife in prepara- 
tion for carving. 



THE ART OF CARVING 107 

successful carving really begins with proper cooking. When possible, skew- 
ers and string should be removed in the kitchen. This cannot be done with 
rolled roasts, of course. 

Knowledge of anatomy. The necessary knowledge of the location 
of bones and joints and the directions in which the muscle fibers run can 
be acquired by studying the meat cuts before as well as after cooking. If 
all meats were boneless, carving would be a very simple matter, but since 
this is not the case, the carver must learn the position of the bones he will 
encounter, so that he may cut around them with dexterity in order to get 
the largest and neatest slice. 

Knowing the direction in which the muscles run is essential, because, 
in making a slice the carver should cut across the grain, wherever possible, 
as this shortens the fibers and makes a more desirable serving. In carving 
most cuts such as roasts and pot-roasts, carving across the grain may be 
accomplished by making the slices parallel to the cut surface, because 
the meat retailer cuts across the grain in preparing the cut at the market. 
Steaks, however, are carved with the grain. 

To make neat slices. After the first incision is made in carving a 
slice of meat, the angle at which the knife is held should never be altered, 
or a jagged uneven slice will result. In all carving, each stroke with the 
knife should be drawn the full length of the blade, eliminating the sawing 
motion. This gives an attractive, smooth slice. The most attractive slice is 
the one cut just the right thickness for the particular kind of meat being 
carved. A paper-thin slice seems ungenerous; too thick a slice lacks appe- 
tite appeal. Good carving, then, means knowing where to make the first 
cut, and then to continue to make parallel cuts until enough portions have 
been secured to serve everyone. 

The carver should learn to carve neatly without scattering bits of meat or 
spattering gravy over the tablecloth. Care should be taken to divide the meat 
in such a manner that each person is served equally well. If there is not 
enough of the choicest portion for everyone without using the less desirable 
part, the host should serve some of each on every plate. 

The meat which remains uncarved should not be jagged and rough, but 
should be inviting enough to tempt one to a second helping. If the carving 
is neatly done, the portion of the roast which has not been cut will be attrac- 
tive. It also will be in a more usable condition for serving at another meal. 

Although getting as many attractive servings as possible is the objective 
in all carving, the way this is accomplished differs with the various cuts. The 
details of carving the different cuts are given on the following pages. The 
methods suggested for carving some of the cuts are a decided departure from 
established procedure, but the carver who adopts them will find that they 
are not a departure from principles. These methods have been worked out 
very carefully in order to find the easiest way to secure the maximum num- 
ber of servings, uniform in size and attractive in appearance. 



108 



[Porterhouse Steak 






As was stated previously, in making re- 
tail meat cuts in the market, it is the prac- 
tice to cut them across the grain of the 
meat, in so far as possible. This is true of 




steaks as well as roasts. This means, of 
course, that in carving a steak the slices 
are cut with the grain instead of across it. 
Steaks, however, are cut relatively thin so 
the fibers are not very long in any event 
and they are tender: therefore, cutting 
across the grain is less important than 
with large pieces of meat, such as roasts 
and pot-roasts where cutting with the 
grain would give long fibers. 



THE ART OF CARVING 109 

The method of carving a porterhouse steak is given below. 

1. The first step is to separate the meat from the bone, as shown in the 
first illustration. The carver holds the steak steady by inserting the fork to 
the left of the large muscle and with the point of the steak knife cuts the 
meat from around the bone, making the cut as close to the bone as possible. 
The bone should be removed to one side of the platter so that it will not 
interfere with making the slices. 

2. With the fork still in position, and with the knife at right angles to 
the original position of the bone, the carver cuts slices about one inch 
in width, beginning at the bone end, as shown in the second illustration. 
Thus the tenderloin and the large muscle are cut at one and the same 
time. It may be necessary, however, in order to serve each person a portion 
of tenderloin, to cut thinner slices from this muscle. A slice of the tenderloin 
and the wide muscle should be served to each. 

3. Unless the number to be served makes it necessary, the flank end of 
the steak is not carved but is used in some attractive left-over at another 
meal. If it is served, it should be cut across the width, as shown by the 
dotted lines in the third illustration. The fibers which run lengthwise in this 
part of the steak thus are shortened, making a more desirable serving. 

Carving Other Steaks 

Sirloin steaks. Carving a sirloin steak is essentially the same as carv- 
ing a porterhouse steak. The bone is removed by cutting down close to it with 
the point of the knife. The steak is then cut into slices about one inch in width. 
In carving any steak, the width of the slice is determined by the number 
to be served. In sirloin steaks the direction of the muscles changes and 
the direction of the knife should change so that the fibers are cut as short 
as possible. 

Carving a pin-bone sirloin steak is much easier if the pin bone is removed 
at the market and the flank end ground and inserted in the cavity left by 
removing the bone. This not only makes carving easier but it solves the 
problem of the flank end because grinding this portion cuts the connective 
tissue and the flank end is made just as tender as the rest of the steak. 

Round steak. A round steak is cut much thinner as a rule than porter- 
house or sirloin steaks and so in carving, wider portions are served. The 
individual portions usually are cut about two inches wide and three or four 
inches long. The natural divisions between muscles will be a guide in carving 
round steak. 

Swiss steak. A Swiss steak is two or more inches thick and so in carving 
individual servings are cut thinner than is the case with round steak. 

Chuck steak. In the blade steak, the same bones are present that are in 
the blade pot-roast. These bones are removed and the steak cut in thin slices. 
Study the instructions for carving a blade pot-roast on page 113. The illus- 
trations show the muscle structure and the bones which must be removed. 



110 



Standing IKib LKoast 

When buying a standing rib roast, have the backbone separated from 
the ribs by sawing across the ribs close to and parallel to the backbone. 
The backbone may be removed easily after roasting. This should be done 
in the kitchen. With the backbone removed carving is much easier because 
it leaves only the rib bones from which the slices must be loosened. 

1. The roast is placed before the carver with the cut surface up and the 
rib side to his left. The carver firmly inserts the fork, with the guard up, 
between the two top ribs. Beginning at the outside edge at the large end 
of the roast, the knife is drawn across the roast to the rib side. 

A slice about three-eighths of an inch thick makes an attractive serving. 

It may be somewhat thicker or thinner, ac- 
cording to personal preference. 




Fig. 38. 

2. The slice is loosened by cutting 
along the bone with the tip of the 
knife. 

3. As each slice is cut it is steadied 
with the fork and lifted on the blade 
of the knife to one side of the platter 
or, if platter is not large enough, to 
another hot platter placed near the 
carver to receive the slices as they 
are made. 



Ill 



(Rolled (kit (Roast 




In carving a rolled rib roast, the im- 
portant consideration is to make even 
slices which are uniform in thickness. 
To accomplish this care should be taken 
not to alter the direction of the knife in 
making the slices. 

The rolled rib roast is held by cords. 
Obviously these cords cannot be removed 
in the kitchen; if they were the roast 
would fall apart. Good carving, there- 
fore, so far as a rolled rib roast is con- 
cerned, necessitates cutting and dispos- 
ing of the cords neatly. Only one cord 
is severed at a time as it is reached in 



112 TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 

making the slice. The cord is cut with the point of the knife, loosened with 
the fork and removed to one side of the platter. 

1. The roast is placed on the platter with the smaller cut side up and 
the larger side down so that the meat will rest firmly. The carver holds 
the roast steady by inserting the fork at the extreme left side an inch or two 
below the top of the roast, as shown in the first illustration. The guard on the 
fork should be up as it is in all cases when the carver is cutting toward 
his left hand. As the slices are made, the carving fork is taken out and 
moved downward from time to time as necessary. 

In making the slice the carver draws the knife from right to left across 
the surface of the roast. The thickness of the slice depends upon personal 
preference, and will vary from an eighth of an inch for a thin slice to 
three-eighths of an inch for a thick one. 

2. As each slice is carved, it is lifted on the blade of the knife and stead- 
ied with the fork as it is placed to one side of the platter or to another hot 
platter or plate provided for this purpose. Enough slices should be carved to 
serve all those at the table before serving any of the guests. 

Carving Other Boneless Cuts 

Tenderloin. The tenderloin, being boneless, presents no problems in 
carving except to cut even slices. The carver should hold the meat with 
the fork grasped in the left hand. Beginning at the large end. the tenderloin 
is cut across in slices a little less than one-half inch thick. 

Tongue. The tongue should be trimmed before bringing to the table. 
It is placed on the platter with the large end to the right and the rounded 
side toward the carver. The fork is inserted in the top and thin parallel 
slices are cut straight down across the grain, beginning at the large end of 
the tongue. This gives lengthwise slices from the small end. 

Beef brisket. Place boned beef brisket on the platter with the flat side 
down and with the larger end to the right of the carver. The general direction 
of the muscle fibers is parallel to the length of the platter. 

With the fork inserted in the top of the brisket and to his left, the carver 
cuts straight down to the platter making slices not more than one-eighth of 
an inch in thickness. These slices are cut across the grain of the meat. 

Boned and rolled shoulder roasts. Veal and lamb shoulders are 
boned and rolled for roasts. These roasts are placed on the platter with the 
cut surface at right angles to the platter. The carver makes the slices by cut- 
ting from the top of the roast down to the platter, allowing each slice to fall 
back as it is made. Boned and stuffed shoulder roasts are carved in the same 
fashion, down through the meat and the dressing. 



113 



(Blade (Pot-(Roast 



A blade pot-roast contains at least one 
rib and a portion of the blade bone. In 
the relatively long cooking period the 




Fig. 40. 
connective tissue which binds the bones 
to the muscles is softened to such an ex- 
tent that these bones are loosened and 
may be slipped out quite easily. In 
which case it is just as well to remove 
them before the pot-roast is placed on 
the platter; then the carver has only the 
task of making attractive servings from 
a boneless piece of meat. 

The chief problem in carving a blade 
pot-roast, whether the bone is in or not, 
is to make attractive slices across the 
grain of the meat. There are several 
muscles the fibers of which run in dif- 



114 TEN LESSONS ON MEAT 

ferent directions. Because of this and because of the bones which may be 
in the pot-roast when it reaches the table, it is not possible to carve a slice 
parallel to the cut surface as one does in carving a rib roast. A very satis- 
factory method of carving a blade pot-roast is given below. 

1. Holding the pot-roast firmly with the carving fork inserted into the 
left, and following the natural dividing line between muscles, the carver 
removes a small section of the pot-roast, separating the meat from the blade 
bone, if it has not been removed in the kitchen. The first illustration shows 
the carver cutting one section, by running the carving knife along the 
division between two muscles and between muscle and bone. 

2. The carver inserts the fork in the piece just separated and with the 
knife on the top surface, as shown in the second illustration, he turns the 
meat so that the surface which was in a horizontal position is in a vertical 
position. The grain of the meat is now parallel with the platter and the 
carver can easily cut slices across the grain. 

3. With the fork inserted in this smaller portion of the pot-roast, as 
shown in the third illustration, the carver cuts slices down to the platter. 
These slices should be cut about one-fourth to three-eighths of an inch in 
thickness. Two or three slices, depending upon the original thickness of 
the pot-roast, should be served to each person. 

When one section of the pot-roast has been carved in this fashion, 
another section is carved in like manner. 

Carving Other Cuts 
Shoulder arm pot-roast. The shoulder arm pot-roast contains three 
to five rib ends and a small round bone. If a thick cut is to be served, 
the procedure is much the same as in carving a blade pot-roast. The bone is 
removed and smaller portions of the meat made following the natural divid- 
ing line between the large muscles. The portion containing the rib ends may 
be served with the bone in, as many persons prefer a piece of meat with the 
bone in. If a relatively thin slice has been cooked as a pot-roast, it may be 
carved across the entire width of the meat as one would carve a steak, except 
that the slices should be cut about one-eighth to one-fourth inch thick. 

Rump pot-roast. If the rump is boned and rolled, it is put on the 
platter so that the flat side is down with the large end to the right of the 
carver. As in the rolled rib roast, the cords which tie it are not removed 
until each is reached in slicing. Beginning at the large end, thin slices are 
cut across the grain down through the pot-roast. The direction of the knife 
will be about parallel with the cords. 

Stuffed breast of lamb and veal. The breast bone should be removed 
in the market to facilitate carving. The meat is placed on the platter with the 
rib side down and the meaty side up. The carver inserts the fork firmly in 
the meat and cuts straight down, from back to front between each two ribs. 



115 



[Roast JLoin of Lrork 



It is much easier to carve a pork loin 
roast if the backbone is separated from 
the ribs. This is done at the market 
by sawing across the ribs close to and 
parallel to the backbone. 

1. The backbone becomes loosened 
during roasting and is easily removed 




Fie. 41. 



before the roast is placed on the p latter. 
The first illustration shows the roasted 
loin of pork. Note that the backbone 
is falling away from the rib. 

2. The roast has been placed fat side 
down on a bread board or other surface 
suitable for cutting. A fork is inserted 
between the rib bones to hold the roast 
firmly. The backbone is removed by cut- 
ting close to the backbone and parallel 
to the ribs, as shown in the second illus- 



116 TEN LESSONS ON. MEAT 

tration. With this preparation in the kitchen. ser\ ing a loin roast at the table 
is a simple task for the carver. 

3. The roast is placed on the platter so that the rib ends are up and 
the platter is placed before the carver so that the rib side is toward him. 
There are two good reasons for placing the roast before the carver in this 
fashion. In the first place those at the table see the more attractive side of the 
roast. And in the second place it is much easier for the carver to follow the 
direction of the rib bones, which is his guide in making the slices. All of the 
rib bones are not absolutely perpendicular to the platter; some of them slant 
somewhat as will be seen by studying the direction of the ribs shown in 
the accompanying illustrations. 

In carving roast pork, it should be borne in mind that the servings are 
particularly tempting if the slices are cut fairly thin. The roast is held 
firmly with the fork. Since in making the slice the knife is not drawn 
toward the carver's left hand, it is not necessary that the guard be up. 
The carver draws the knife as close as possible to the left side of the first 
rib. In making the second slice, the knife is drawn as close as possible to 
the right side of the second rib. The third slice will be cut close to the 
left side of the third rib, the fourth close to the right side of the fourth 
rib, proceeding thus until enough slices have been cut to serve everyone 
at the table, before any of the plates are passed. If there is a long interval 
between passing the individual plates, the food becomes cold while the guest 
waits for the others to be served. This is embarrassing to guest and hostess 
alike. The first serving will contain a rib bone; the second serving will be 
boneless; the third will contain a rib, and so on. Every other slice made will 
be boneless. It is not necessary to lift the slices to one side of the platter: 
instead they are allowed to fall back as they are cut off. 

The slices thus made will be of the right thickness to give the most 
attractive serving. With a large loin of pork it is possible to cut two bone- 
less slices between each two ribs. With a small loin, the slice may be thin 
enough if the cut is made between each two pairs of ribs, especially if 
personal preference indicates a serving somewhat thicker than that ordi- 
narily carved. Two slices usually are served to each person. 



117 



Crown [Roast of JLamb 




Fie. 42. 

A crown roast of lamb or pork which 
has been prepared properly at the mar- 
ket is very easy to carve. In fact, the 
carver proceeds in much the same man- 
ner as in carving a pork loin roast. 

The carver steadies the crown roast 
by inserting the fork to the left between 
the ribs. He then makes the slices by 
cutting through the center between each 
two ribs. 

One chop and a portion of dressing, or vegetables that may be used to fill 
the center of the crown, are served to each person. A whole head of cauli- 
flower frequently is placed in the center of the crown. This makes a very 
attractive service, but before carving, the cauliflower should be placed to 
one side of the platter, otherwise it will interfere with the carving operations. 

The crown roast of lamb or pork is suitable for the special occasion. 
It lends itself to many garnishes and may be served with a number of 
different accompaniments. 



118 



[fioast JLeg of JLamb 




Fig 43. 

Strange as it may seem, carving in- 
structions have never taken into consid- 
eration the fact that both right and left 
legs must be carved, yet it is obvious 
that there will be a difference in the 
position of the two as they lie on the 
platter The roast should be examined 
in the kitchen so that it may be placed 
before the carver in the position most 
convenient for him. On one side of the 
leg bone is a large meaty section which 
is known as the cushion. It is from this 
section that the most desirable servings 
are obtained. On the other side of the 
leg bone is a thinner meaty section. The 
leg of lamb should be placed before the 
carver so that the shank bone is to his 
right and the thinner meaty section to- 
ward him. In carrying out these direc- 
tions for placing the roast before the 
carver, it will be found that the same 
side of the roast will not always be 
uppermost. This is because sometimes 
it will be a left leg and other times a 
right one. In the case of a right leg, the 
inside will be up, as shown in the first 
illustration; but with a left leg the out- 
side will be up. 



Til E ART OF CAK\ ING 



119 



The shank bone has been removed in making the American style leg of 
lamb, therefore, it is not present as a guide for placing on the platter, but 
the end of the leg from which it has been removed is smaller and so this 
end should be to the carver's right. Otherwise the conditions for placing 
on the platter and for carving are exactly the same. 

With the roast in the proper position before him, the carver proceeds 
in exactly the same way with the carving regardless of whether the leg is 
light or left. His chief concern is to make the most desirable servings. 
Understanding the location of the bones 
will be a great help. The chart on this 
page shows the bone structure. The lines on 
the chart represent the direction the knife 
will follow in making the slices. Note the 
relation of these lines (slices) to the bones. 

1. The carver inserts the fork firmly in 
the large end of the leg and carves two or 
three length-wise slices from the thin side 
nearest him. This makes a flat surface on 
which the roast will stand firmly while 

carving the "cushion" or thick portion which yields the best slices. 

2. The leg of lamb then is turned so that it rests firmly on the cut sur- 
face. With the fork inserted in the left of the roast, and beginning at the 
shank end of the leg. the carver makes the first slice down to the leg bone. 
He continues to make slices until the aitch bone is reached. The slices should 
be about one-fourth to three-eighths of an inch thick. 

3. With the fork still in place, the carver runs the knife parallel to the 
les bone to free the slices all at one time. 




Fie. 44. Diagram of leg of lamb. 
showing bone structure and direc- 
tion of slices in carving. 



120 



CsCirvmg a Viz hole uia 



m 



Carving a whole ham presents 
some of the same problems as carv- 
ing a leg of lamb. It has the same 
bone and muscle structure and right 
and left hams must be considered. 
But since a baked ham is always 
decorated in some way, it can only 
be placed on the platter with the 
fat side up. The shank end of the 
ham should be to the carver's right, 
the same as in carving a leg of lamb. 
But, because the ham cannot be 
turned over, sometimes the thin side 
of the ham will be nearest the 
carver and sometimes farthest from 
him, depending on whether the ham 
is a right or a left one. The method 
of carving a right ham will be the 
same except that the first few slices 
will be removed from the side farth- 
est from the carver. The small dia- 



Fig. 45. 




T H E A K T O F C A RVING 



121 



gram (Fig. 46) shows the direction of the knife in making the slices. Il 
also shows the bones which are encountered in carving a ham. 

1. The fork is inserted to the left. Two or three slices are cut parallel 
to the length of the ham from the side nearest the carver. Or if the ham 
being carved is a right one. these slices would be removed from the side 
farthest from the carver. 

2. The ham is then turned so that it rests on this cut surface. Holding 
the ham firmly with the fork, a small wedge-shaped piece is cut from the 
shank end. This facilitates making the slices and releasing them from the 
bone after they are made. The carver then proceeds to cut thin slices down 
to the le.g bone, until the aitch bone is reached. 

3. With the fork still in place to 
steady the ham, the slices are released 
from the bone by running the knife 
along the bone and at right angles to 
the slices. 

4. If more servings are required, the 
ham is turned back in its original po- 
sition on the platter with the fat side 

up and the slices are carved at right ^ % Diagram of who le ham, showing 
angles to the bone. These slices are structure and direction which knife follows 
not so large as those from the cushion '" carving. 

section, but thev make attractive servings for second helpings. 




Carving a Half Ham 

The shank end half ham is not so difficult to carve because the only bone 
in it is the round bone and the carver can see the bone from the face of the 
ham. Beginning at the face of the ham (cut surface) slices are carved down 
to the bone; then the knife is run parallel to the bone to free the slices. After 
the top side is carved, the ham is turned over and the second side is carved 
in the same way. 

If the butt or loin end of the ham is used, carving will be much easier, 
if the aitch bone is removed at the market. The face of the ham should be 
toward the carver's right. Beginning at the top, thin slices are cut from the 
face of the ham. Half ham is placed before the carver fat side up with the 
face to his right. Slices are made by cutting down to the bone. These are 
removed by cutting along the bone at right angles to the slices. The carver 
will find it easier to make only two or three slices at a time and remove these, 
rather than to make all the slices and attempt to separate them from the bone 
at one time. 



122 



I la t to rial JLtve Stock and ffleat {Hoard 



THE NATIONAL LIVE STOCK AND MEAT BOARD is a non-profit 
organization, representing all branches of the live-stock and meat in- 
dustry — live-stock growers and feeders, marketing agencies, meat packers, 
and meat retailers. 

Since it was founded in Nineteen Twenty-two, the Board has carried on 
an extensive educational program, based on researches related to produc- 
tion problems, the place of meat in nutrition, and meat cookery. The Board 
has the cooperation of the L T nited States Department of Agriculture, the 
several state agricultural experiment stations, educational institutions, and 
organizations within the industry. 

The Board inaugurated the National Cooperative Meat Investigations 
Project, and has continued its interest in and support of this great cooperative 
endeavor. The cooperators in the national project are: Bureaus of Agricul- 
tural Economics, Animal Industry, and Home Economics of the LTnited States 
Department of Agriculture; and several of the state agricultural experiment 
stations. Through their researches, these institutions have made contribu- 
tions which are of inestimable value to the live-stock grower and feeder, the 
processor, the retailer, and the homemaker. Their findings have been the 
foundation of much of the educational work of the Board. 

Working through the National Research Council, the Board has established 
fellowships for research on the nutritive value of meat. Among the studies 
sponsored by the Board are included: "Meat for blood regeneration." "Meat 
for rearing the young," "The iron content of meat," "Nutritive value of types 
of lard," "Meat in the gaining diet," "Meat in the reducing diet," "Effect of 
a high protein diet," "Vitamin content of meat." Through these and other 
studies, the Board has been instrumental in adding materially to the science 
of nutrition. 

The Board, because it is in close contact with all education and research 
on the subject of meat, is able to provide teachers and students of home 
economics with the latest authentic facts about meat, both in nutrition and 
in meat cookery. This is the purpose of Ten Lessons on Meat, and it is 
fitting that grateful acknowledgement be made to the workers whose studies 
have made this textbook possible. 



123 



[Bibliography 



Alexander, Lucy M., and Yeatman, Fanny Walker, Cooking Beef 
According to the Cut, United States Department of Agriculture Leaflet 

17 (1927). 

, Lamb as ) <>u 

Like It, United States Department of Agriculture Leaflet 28 1 1923) . 

_., and Clark, Nancy Griswold. Shrinkage and Heat 

Penetration During the Roasting of Lamb and Mutton as Influenced by- 
Carcass Grade, Ripening Period and Cooking Method, Technical Bulletin 
No. 440, United States Department of Agriculture (1934). 

Bell, Viola M., and Helser, M. D.. Essentials in the Selection of Meat 
for Students of Home Economics. John Wiley and Sons, New York (1930) . 

Chatfield, Charlotte, Proximate Composition of Beef, Circular 339. 
United States Department of Agriculture (1926). 

Child, Alice M., Selection and Use of Pork Cuts, University of Minnesota 
Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin 254, (1929). 

, Using Meat Specialties, University of Minnesota Agri- 
cultural Extension Division Circular 52 (1937). 

, and Paul, Pauline, Effect of Thawing and Cooking 

Frozen Pork and Beef, University of Minnesota Agricultural Experiment 
Station Technical Bulletin 125, (1937) . 

Cline, Jessie Alice. The Use of Lard in Cookery, University of Mis- 
souri Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin 335 (1934). 

, Trowbridge, E. A.. Foster. M. T.. and Fry, Hazel E.. 

Hon- Certain. Methods of Cooking Affect the Quality and Palatability of 
Beef, Missouri Agricultural Station Bulletin 293 (1930). 

Davis, W. C, and Whalin, C. V., Market Grades and Classes of Dressed 
Beef, United States Department of Agriculture Bulletin 1246 (1927). 

, and Harris, C. M., Market Grades and Classes of Dressed 

Veal and Calf Carcasses, United States Department of Agriculture Circular 
103 (1930). 

, Market Classes and Grades of Yearling Beef. United States 

Department of Agriculture Circular 208 < 1932) . 

, and McCarthy. B. F.. Market Classes and Grades of Pork- 
Carcasses and Fresh Pork Cuts, United States Department of Agriculture 
Circular 288 (1935). 

Edincer. A. T., The Physical Composition of a Lean, a Half Fat. ami a Fat 
Beef Carcass and the Relative Cost of the Nutrients Contained in Each. 
Research Bulletin No. 83. Missouri Agricultural Experiment Station I 1925 i . 

, Carcass Comparisons of Mature and Immature Steers. Re- 
search Bulletin No. 117, Missouri Agricultural Experiment Station, 1 1928) . 



124 

Gardner, Kelsey B., and Adams, Lawrence A., Consumer Habits and 
Preferences in the Purchase and Consumption of Meat, United States De- 
partment of Agriculture Bulletin 1443 (1926). 

Halliday, Evelyn G., and Noble, Isabel T., Hows and Whys of Cook- 
in g, 2nd ed. University of Chicago Press (1933) . 

Harris, Florence LaGanke, Everywomans Complete Guide to Home- 
making, Little, Brown and Co., Boston, ( 1936 ) . 

, and Hazel H. Huston, The Home Eco 

nomics Omnibus, Little. Brown and Co., Boston, (1935). 

Hazeltine, Marjorie. and Dow, Ula M., Good Cooking Made Easy 
and Economical, Houghton-Mifflin Company (1933). 

Lanman, Faith R., McKay, Hughina, and Zuill, Francis, The Family's 
Food, J. B. Lippincott, Chicago (1931) . 

Latzke, Esther, and Leeby, Constance, Veal in Variety, North Da- 
kota Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin 239 (1930). 

Lord, Isabel Ely, Everybody's Cookbook, Henry Holt and Company. 

Lowe, Belle, Experimental Cookery, John Wiley and Sons, New York. 

MacLeod, A. L., and Nason, E. H., Chemistry and Cookery, McGraw- 
Hill (1930). 

McCollum, E. V., and Simmonds, Nina, Food, Nutrition, and Health. 
Published by the authors (1925). 

, Orent-Keiles, Elsa, and Day, Harry G., The Neiver 

Knowledge of Nutrition, 4th ed. The MacMillan Co., New York (1939). 

McLester. James S., Nutrition and Diet in Health and Disease, W. B. 
Saunders Co. (1939). 

Mitchell, H. H.. and Hamilton, T. S., The Biochemistry of the Amino 
Acids, American Chemical Society Monograph Series, The Chemical 
Catalog Co., Inc.. New York (1929). 

Nelson, P. Mabel, and Lowe, Belle, Use of Lard as a Household Fat. 
Iowa State College Extension Service (1937). 

Robertson, Helen, Merry Mixer Cook Book. Frederick A. Stokes and 
Company ( 1937). 

Rose, Mary Swartz, The Foundation of Nutrition, The MacMillan Co. 

Sherman, Henry C. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition, 4th ed. The 
MacMillan Co. (1932). 

Stanley. Louise, and Cline, Jessie Alice, Foods: Their Selection and 
Preparation, Ginn and Company, Boston (1935). 

Lard, Institute of American Meat Packers ( 1 934 I . 

Food and Nutrition News. National Live Stock and Meat Board. 

Meat in Menu Planning. National Live Stock and Meat Board. (1937). 

Nutrition and the Importance of Meat, National Live Stock and Meat 
Board, (1937). 

Weight Gaining, National Live Stock and Meat Board, (1937). 

Weight Reduction with Safety and Comfort, National Live Stock and 
Meat Board, (1934). 



o//?c/< 



ex 



Anemia, meat in diet for 28 

Bacon, how to broil 70 

Beef, cuts of 32-33 

quality 33 

identification and uses 36-41 

carving 109-114 

cooking 61, 62, 69-70, 72-79 

Brains, how to cook 91-93 

Braising 75-81 

cuts cooked by 77 

Branding, packer 31 

Broiling 67-74 

cuts, cooked by 69 

Calcium, sources of 12 

in meat 13 

Carbohydrates in meat 5 

Care of meat 35 

Carving 102-121 

Composition of meat 4-6 

Connective tissue 2. 3. 54, 75 

Cooking in water 85-87 

cuts for 85, 86 

Cooking meat, methods of. . .54-101 

roasting 54-66 

broiling and panbroiling. . .67-74 

frying 74 

braising 75-81 

cooking in water 82-90 

sundries 89-97 

Copper 13, 14 

Crown roast, description of 49 

how to carve 117 

Cuts of meat, identification and 

selection 30-53 

Diet, the normal 20-25 

child's 26-27 

reducing 27 

gaining 27-28 

Digestibility, of meat 15 

of pork 19 

of veal 19 

of lard 100 

Energy, meat as source of. . 10. 1 1, 13 
requirement 22 



Enzymes 6 

ripening due to 6 

Extractives 5 

Fat, in meat 2, 5 

effect of, on physical structure. . 3-4 

Frying 74 

deep fat 101 

use of lard in 101 

Grades of meat 30-31 

grading and stamping 31 

Gravies and sauces, how to make 

80-81 

Ham, baking 64 

broiling 73 

how to carve 120-121 

Heart, how to cook 93-9-1 

Iron in meat 4. 13, 17, 23 

Kidney disease, meat and 29 

Kidneys, how to cook 97-98 

Lamb, cuts of 33-34 

quality 33 

identification and uses 46-49 

cooking. . . .64. 66. 69, 70, 77, 82 

Lard, classification of 99-100 

food value of 100 

culinary uses of 100-101 

Liver 13, 15, 17 

cooking of 94-95 

Meal planning, meat in 25 

Minerals 

4.7.12,13,14,17,22-23 

Muscles 1-2 

Palatability of meat 15-16 

Panbroiling 74 

Pellagra, meat and 29 

Phosphorus 4, 13, 14 

Pigments in meat 5 

Pork, digestibility of 19 

cuts of 34-35 

quality 35 

identification and uses 50-53 

cooking of 63-64. 80 



Preservation of meat 35 

Pressure cooker, ham cooked in. . 86 

Proteins in meat 4 

biological value of 9, 11 

supplementary relation among 11 

sources of 21 

allowance 21 

Ripening 6 

Roasting 54-66 

cuts cooked by 61, 62, 63 

Satiety value 16 

Sausages, classification of. . .98, 99 

Searing 55, 62, 63, 71-72 

Shrinkage 59-60 

Soup stock, making 87-88 

cuts used in 88 

kinds of 89-90 

to classify 90 

care of 90 

Specialties 91-97 



Stews 82-85 

cuts for 83, 84 

Structure of meat 1-4 

Thermometer, how to use in meat 
cookery 58-59, 68 

Temperatures, in meat cookery . . 

55, 56, 57. 59 

Tenderness, relation of structure 

to 3 

Time-tables, limitations of . . . .57-58 

for roasting 65 

for broiling 72 

for braising 81 

for simmering 87 

Tongue, how to cook 93 

Tripe, how to cook 97 

Veal, cuts of 33 

quality 33 

identification and use 42-45 

cooking 62, 69, 79, 84, 85, 88 

Vitamins 13, 18, 23-25 



Additional Copies 

Of Ten Lessons on Meat May Be Procured from the 

National Live Stock and Meat Board 

407 South Dearborn Street 

Chicago, Illinois 

at 
10 Cents the Copy 






