PUBLICATION 536 

HOUSEHOLD BULLETIN 10 



ISSUED APRIL, 1940 
REVISION 



DOMINION OF CANADA, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 



CANNED 
FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 



for 



VARIETY IN EVERYDAY MEALS 



EDITH L. ELLIOT 



MARKETING SERVICE 




.olishod by authority of the Hon. James G. Gardiner, Minister of Agriculture 

Ottawa, Canada 



2-4:40 



■ * ■ Agriculture Canadian Agriculture Library 

I ™ ■ Canada 



Bibliotheque canadienne de I'agriculture 
Ottawa K1 A 0C5 



f/ f0 



r\ 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2012 with funding from 

Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada - Agriculture et Agroalimentaire Canada 



http://www.archive.org/details/cannedfruitsvegeOOelli 



Canned Fruits and Vegetables 

Give Variety to Every-day Meals 

" Every day use two vegetables other than potatoes. Every day use two 
fruits, one raw and one cooked." This is a well-known slogan often quoted by 
dietitians. If this rule is to be followed there must be a plentiful supply of 
canned fruits and vegetables on the pantry shelf. 

These of course may be put up at home in glass jars or may be commercially 
canned products. 

These methods of storing foods in airtight, sterilized containers have 
obliterated the differences of seasons. Due to present methods fruits and 
vegetables served out of the can are often fresher and more healthful than 
so-called " fresh " products. 

At one time the work of canning fruits and vegetables was done entirely 
in the home. To-day the home-manager must decide for herself whether this is 
still her best plan. The modern homemaker, to be truly efficient must weigh 
values, social as well as economic. Knowing the conditions under w T hich fruit 
and vegetables are packed in cans in Canada, she must determine whether it is 
good buying to use the commercially canned products or to continue to do her 
own. 

If home canned fruits and vegetables are used, the housewife knows exactly 
what has gone into each jar. In the case of commercial canned products it is 
also possible to know exactly what the contents of each tin will be if the buyer 
understands the regulations regarding these products in Canada and buys 
accordingly. 

- Perfect maturity, together with the method of exhausting air before sealing, 
assures minimum injury to vitamin content. 

REGULATIONS REGARDING CANNED FRUIT AND VEGETABLES 

IN CANADA 

The Government of Canada, under the Meat and Canned Foods Act of 
1907, and regulations made thereunder, enforces laws which ensure quality in 
all commercial canned fruit and vegetables sold in Canada. This Act, as it 
pertains to fruit and vegetables and their products, is administered by the 
Fruit and Vegetable Division of the Department of Agriculture at Ottawa. 

All canning factories which do interprovincial or export trade are inspected 
by government-appointed inspectors for sanitary conditions and the products 
are inspected for quality. 

The Pure Food Laws of Canada state: " Canned fruits and canned vege- 
tables are sound products made by sterilizing clean, sound, properly matured 
and prepared, fresh fruit or vegetables by means of heat, and keeping the same 
in suitable, clean containers, closed hermetically or otherwise, and to conform 
in name to the particular fruits or vegetables used in their preparation." 

No adulterant, preservative or artificial colouring matter may be used in 
commercial canned fruits or vegetables, the only added ingredients being pure 
water, sugar and salt. 

Tomatoes may have no added water, and the juice must be the juice from 
the particular lot of tomatoes. 

99263—1* 




Checking Weight. Laboratory at Ottawa. 



BUYING 

Cans of many sizes and shapes are on the market. However, it is com- 
paratively easy to select that which contains the correct amount for the special 
need. All cans of fruits and vegetables have a round stamp on the label with 
fluid ounces of contents plainly printed. 




CHERRIES 

CHOICE 
QUALITY 

HEAVY SYRUP 





The grade of quality of contents of can is also declared on the label. 
There are four grades of quality: — 
Fancy Quality. — Highest grade — as nearly perfect as possible — packed from 

sound, clean fruit or vegetables, at perfect maturity and free from blemishes, 

of good colour and uniform size. The workmanship must be good; the 

liquid must be clear. 
Choice Quality. — Allows slight variation in size, colour and maturity, but must 

be packed from fruit or vegetables which are sound, clean and free from 

blemishes — liquid fairly clear. 

Standard Quality. — All fruit or vegetables must be of good quality and good 
maturity, although they need not be uniform in colour or size. Liquid 
must be fairly clear. 

Sub-Standard Quality. — Packed from clean, sound fruit or vegetables which 
need not be uniform in maturity, colour or size. 

Always buy by the quality mark. 

Canned peas and beans have the size stated on the label. No. 1 is a very 
small bean or pea, No. 2 larger, and the size increases as the number. The size 
in no way depends on the quality nor the quality on the size. 
Canned Fruits and also Graded for Syrup: — 
I. Heavy Syrup. 
II. Light Syrup. 

III. Unsweetened or without sugar. 

IV. Packed with — % sugar. 

Always read the label carefully before buying. Know the quality and insist 
on Canadian products. Buy the quality best suited to your needs. The cheaper 
grades sometimes may be used to advantage as food value does not vary 
according to grade. 

It is not necessary to aerate foods on opening the can before serving. 




Inspection for Quality. Laboratory at Ottawa 



STORAGE 

Canned foods should be kept in a moderately cool temperature. Avoid 
e near radiators, furnaces or stoves. 

Properly processed canned foods will keep indefinitely without spoilage 
as long as nothing happens to the can to make it leak. 

\ dented can does not indicate spoilage, but should be examined to assure 
absence of breaks or leaks. 

Unless rust has penetrated the tin, it does not indicate spoilage. 

Freezing of canned goods does not render them unwholesome, and usually 
does not detract from their appearance. Many delicious desserts can be made 
by freezing canned fruits. With foods of creamy consistency freezing may 
cause curdling or separation of water, but the normal appearance is usually 
restored by heating. 

Canned fruits and vegetables may be safely left in the can after opening. 
The modern type of can has overcome the difficulty of injurious reaction taking 
place. However, if storing in the refrigerator for any length of time, it is more 
satisfactory to remove the contents to a covered dish. 

Ptomaine poison cannot develop from canned fruits or vegetables, with the 
possible exception of ripe beans, but there has never been a case proved to come 
from this source. 

Spoilage may always be detected by swelling of the can, discoloration or 
unpleasant odour of the contents and such food should always be discarded. 

NUTRITIONAL VALUE 

Greatest dietetic value is reached only when the product is fully matured 
on the plant. Fruits or vegetables harvested when under-ripe never become 
perfect nutritionally. Such products as spinach, asparagus, green peas, berries, 
etc., which may be stored successfully only by refrigeration, canning or drying, 
lose flavour and nutritive value sometimes within a few hours after picking if 
exposed to the air. Commercial canned products are canned at perfect maturity 
and within a few hours of harvesting. 

Sealed in cans from which air is exhausted and sterilized a short time at 
high temperature, flavour is high and injury to vitamins is minimum. Mineral, 
carbohydrate and any protein content are unaffected in the canning process. 

Feeding tests carried out with canned foods which had been stored for 
three years have shown that practically no reduction of vitamin content occurred 
during storage. 

The nutritional value of canned foods is, therefore, excellent. 

USES 

The housekeeper who serves meals " out of the can " has discovered the 
secret of variety at all seasons. Canned foods, like fresh foods, soon lose their 
appeal if served daily just as they come from the container. Provide variety 
by using combinations, either with other vegetables and fruits or with other 
foods for flavour. The possibilities are many. 

WAYS OF SERVING CANNED VEGETABLES 

Canned Vegetables as they come from the can are surprisingly good if 
turned, liquor and all, into a skillet and allowed to boil rapidly until nearly all 
the liquor is boiled away. Then the vegetable may be seasoned w r ith butter, salt 
and pepper and served at once. Never wash canned vegetables before using. 

The liquid contains valuable mineral salts. Precious flavour may also be lost 
in so doing. Use the liquid from the vegetables in sauces or soups if it is not 
desirable to serve it with the vegetable. 



If used for salads they should be drained and thoroughly chilled, the liquor 
being saved for soups or sauces. This is simply the water in which the food is 
cooked, and contains mineral salts which are valuable. 

Exposure to air destroys flavour and injures vitamin C. If necessary to 
store part of contents of a can, keep covered in the refrigerator. 

Canned foods are satisfactory for the diet of children. 

Pureed or strained foods are those products which, in addition to the usual 
treatment accorded canned foods, are forced through a fine meshed sieve making 
them suitable for young children. 

RECEIPTS FOR USE WITH CANNED VEGETABLES 

Asparagus with Cheese Sauce: — 

One No. 2 can of asparagus heated in the can; drain, reserving the liquid, 
and arrange on buttered toast. Pour over it the following sauce: — 

2 tbsp. butter 2 tbsp. flour 
•J cup asparagus liquor £ cup milk 
£ cup grated cheese \ tsp. salt. 

Melt the butter; add flour and blend until smooth; gradually add the liquid 
and stir until thickened; cook gently for a few minutes, then add cheese and 
salt. After the sauce is poured over sprinkle with paprika. Serve at once. 

Escalloped Asparagus — 

1 No. 2 can asparagus 2 tbsp. butter 

1 cup bread crumbs pepper and salt. 

\ cup milk 

Drain the asparagus. To the liquor add milk, butter, pepper and salt. 
Arrange alternate layers of asparagus and bread crumbs. Pour the liquid over 
all. Bake at 500° F. for 15 minutes — serves six. 

String Beans with Lemon Butter — 

Juice of i lemon . 3 tbsp. butter 

2^ cups beans salt and pepper. 

Heat the beans according to general directions given previously; melt the 

butter; add salt and pepper and very slowly stir in lemon juice; pour over beans 

just before serving — serves six. 

String Beans with Tomato Sauce — 

2J cups beans 2 tbsp. butter 

1 cup tomato juice 2 tbsp. flour. 

Drain the liquor from beans. To the liquor add tomato juice and boil down 
until 1 cup remains. Melt butter. Add flour. Slowly add the hot liquid, stir- 
ring until thickened and smooth. Season with salt and pepper. Arrange a layer 
of beans in a casserole. Add a layer of sauce — repeat. Over the top, sprinkle 
buttered crumbs. Heat thoroughly and serve at once — serves four. 

Bean Loaf — 

3 cups baked beans 1 egg (slightly beaten) 

1 cup bread crumbs i cup rolled walnuts 

2 tbsp. tomato catsup 1 tsp. salt, a little pepper. 
Mash the beans, add other ingredients in order given. Mould into a loaf 

and bake in a greased pan 30 minutes. Serve hot with tomato sauce or slice 
when cold — serves six. 



8 

Bean Salad — 

2 cups baked beans 
1 cup chopped celery 
1 tsp. chopped onion. 
Served on lettuce with Thousand Island dressing — serves six. 

Beet Jelly Salad — 

1 cup finely chopped canned beets 
1 cup finely chopped apple 
1 cup finely chopped celery 
1 cup prepared lemon jelly. 
Mix all together, pour into moulds. When set serve on lettuce — serves six. 

Beets with Piquante Sauce — 

2\ cups beets 1 tbsp. vinegar 

drained and chopped 1 tsp. grated horseradish 

1 tsp. sugar 2 tbsp. butter 

^ tsp. salt 1 tsp. minced onion. 

Heat \ cup beet juice — add other ingredients; boil up once; add beets and 
serve when hot — serves four. 

Carrots — 

Canned carrots and canned peas may be heated and served together, sea- 
soned with butter, pepper and salt. 

Carrot Salad — 

Small carrots arranged on lettuce and sprinkled with chopped green pepper. 
served with mayonnaise make an attractive salad. 

Concordia Carrots — 

Two and one-half cups of carrots heated in the liquor, then drained and 
arranged in the serving dish are served with the following sauce: — 

2 tbsp. butter 1 cup carrot liquor 
1 tsp. onion chopped 2 tbsp. flour 

finely 2 tsp. lemon juice 

1 tsp. sugar \ tsp. mustard. 

Melt butter, add flour, blend until smooth, add liquid, stir until thickened, 
add other ingredients, pour over hot carrots and serve at once — serves four. 

Cauliflower with Cheese — 

Arrange cauliflower in a baking dish, sprinkle generously with grated cheese, 
salt and paprika. Heat thoroughly. 

Cauliflower Custard — 

Arrange 2 cups cauliflower in a baking dish; around it pour a custard 
made from 1 egg, 1 cup of milk, \ tsp. salt. Over the top sprinkle buttered crumbs 
and garnish with finely chopped pimiento. Bake \ hour in oven at 325° F. — 
serves six. 

Corn and Bean Scallop — 

1 cup beans 1 tbsp. minced green pepper 

1 small onion 1 tsp. minced pimiento. 

2 cups corn 

Fill a baking dish with alternate layers of beans and corn, sprinkle each 
layer with salt, .peppers, onion and pimiento. Cover the top with buttered 
crumbs. Bake ^ hour at 325° F. — serves six. 



Corn and Tomato— 

2 cups corn 1 cup tomatoes 

1 cup bread crumbs 3 tbsp. butter 

1 tsp. sugar J tsp. salt; pepper. 

Mix all together and turn into a baking dish. Lay strips of bacon over the 
top. Bake at 325° F. until bacon is cooked — serves four. 

Corn Custard — 

1 cup canned corn \ cup milk 

1 egg salt and pepper 

Beat the egg well. Add corn, milk and seasonings. Turn into a buttered 
baking dish, and bake until set — serves four. 

Peas — 

A sprig of mint heated with a can of peas gives a pleasant and unusual 
flavour. 

Pea Loaf — 

| cup cracker or bread 1 egg 

crumbs . 2 tbsp. chopped nuts 

1 cup peas 1 tbsp. sugar 

1 tbsp. butter 2 tbsp. milk 

Press the peas through a colander or coarse sieve, beat the egg slightly, add 
milk, then mix with other ingredients. Press into a greased mould. Bake 
i hour. Serve hot with the following: — 

Carrot Sauce — 

2 tbsp. butter \ cup finely chopped 

1 cup carrot liquor carrots 

2 tbsp. flour salt and pepper. 

Melt the butter; add flour; stir until blended; add liquid gradually; stir 
until thick and smooth; add carrots; re-heat. Garnish with whole peas. 

Peas in Tomato Jelly — 

2 cups tomatoes \ tsp. sugar 

1 stalk celery or a little 1 tsp. minced onion 
celery salt % tsp. salt 

\ tsp. pepper 
Cook all together 10 minutes and strain. Soak 2 tbsp. gelatine in \ cup 
cold water 10 minutes, then pour the hot tomato mixture over it. When gelatine 
is dissolved add 2 cups peas. Pour into wet moulds and when set and very 
cold serve on lettuce — serves six. 

Spinach Mould — 

2 cups canned spinach 1 tbsp. melted butter 
2 eggs well beaten salt and pepper 

Mix all ingredients together, turn into a greased baking dish or individual 
moulds. Bake 20 minutes at 325° F. Turn out before serving. This may be 
served hot or may be used cold as a salad — serves four. 

Spinach with Cheese — 

2 cups canned spinach 2 tbsp. butter 

1 cup grated cheese salt and pepper. 

1 cup bread crumbs 
Arrange alternate layers of spinach, cheese and crumbs in a baking dish; 

season, having the top layer of crumbs dotted with butter and bake 15 minutes 

at 500° F. — serves four. 



10 

Tom Mo R ^rebit — 

1 cup tomatoes i cup grated cfoees 

2 eggs salt and pepper 

Heat tomatoes in a double boiler. Add eggs which have been well beaten, 
then add cheese and seasonings. Stir until mixture is thick and smooth. Serve 
on toast or crackers — serves four. 

Tomato Rice — 

2 cups tomato juice J cup rice 

1 tap. minced onion 2 tbsp. butter 
J cup chopped celery J tap. salt. 

Heat tomato juice in a double boiler. Add celery, onion, rice and salt and 
cook, stirring often until rice has absorbed the tomato. Serve as a vegetable. 
Serves four. If desired as a supper dish add \ cup grated cheese when rice is 
cooked and heat until cheese is melted — serves four. 

Tomato Sauce — 

2 cups canned tomatoes 1 tbsp. sugar 
1 bay leaf 1 tsp. salt 

1 small onion 1 tbsp. pimiento 

2 cloves 

Cook all together 10 minutes, then strain; melt 3 tbsp. butter or heat 3 tbsp. 
olive oil. Add 3 tbsp. flour, then strained juice. Cook until smooth and 
thickened. 

VEGETABLE MIXTURES 

Vegetable Chowder — 

1 cup canned corn 1 cup canned peas 

1 cup canned beans 2 cups canned tomatoes 

1 small onion, minced 2 potatoes, diced 

\ tsp. salt i tsp. pepper. 
i tsp. celery salt 
Cook all together until potatoes are tender. Add J cup cream or rich milk 
and serve at once — serves six. 

Vegetable Casserole — 

1 cup canned peas 1 cup canned corn 

2 cups canned tomatoes 1 cup bread crumbs. 
Arrange vegetables in layers, sprinkling each layer with salt and pepper 

and bread crumbs. Dot the top with butter or lay strips of bacon over. Bake 
20 minutes at 350° F. — serves six. 

Scrambles — 

Any left-over vegetable may be used for scrambles, allowing 1 egg to 1 cup 
of vegetables. Beat the egg slightly, add vegetable and turn into the greased 
skillet. Stir until the egg is cooked and the mixture slightly brown — serves two. 

FRUITS DESSERTS 

Fruits are particularly adaptable in making desserts for every day in the 
year. Canned fruits may be used to replace the fresh product in almost every 
case. In most of the recipes other fruits may be substituted for those given. 

Apples — 

Although apples may be stored successfully throughout the year there are 
times when a supply of canned apples either in the jar or tin fills an emergency 
need; most recipes requiring apples may be made from the canned product. 



11 

Apple Custard — 

2 cups well cooked apples pressed through a sieve 

4 tbsp. sugar 

2 eggs well beaten. 
Turn into a buttered baking dish; bake until set; cool and serve with 
whipped cream. Garnish with red currant jelly — serves four. 

Apple Crumb Pudding — 

| cup brown sugar f cup flour 

^ cup butter 3 cups cooked apples. 

Place pieces of apple or apple sauce in bottom of a baking dish. Rub the 

other ingredients together until crumbly. Spread over the apples and bake in 

a hot oven 400° F. for 25 minutes — serves six. 

Apricot Fluff — 

2 cups canned apricots 2 eggs 

^ cup apricot juice \ cup milk 

3 tbsp. sugar 

Press the apricots through a fruit press or coarse sieve. Into this fold the 
2 egg whites stiffly beaten. Chill thoroughly. 

Make a custard sauce using fruit juice, milk, sugar and 2 egg yolks. Chill 
and serve with the apricot mixture. 

Apricot Cream — 

2 cups canned apricots i cup juice. 

1 cup whipping cream 
Press apricots and juice through a coarse sieve. Whip the cream and fold 
in apricot pulp. Turn into a mould, pack in ice and freeze. This dessert is 
easily made in the electric refrigerator. 

Blueberry Roll — 

Make a rich baking powder biscuit dough using: — 

1 cup flour 2 tsp. baking powder 

\ cup milk \ tsp. salt 

\ cup shortening 1 cup drained blueberries. 

Roll dough out to \ inch thickness. Spread with drained blueberries and 
roll up like a jelly roll. Place in a baking pan and bake 20 minutes at 450° F. 
Heat the blueberry juice and serve as sauce. 

Cherry Mould — 

Cut stale bread in thin slices and trim off the crusts. Prepare a jelly 
using: — 

1 cup boiling water, 1 cup juice from canned cherries. 
1 package cherry jelly powder. 
Dip slices of bread in the jelly mixture and use them to line a cold, wet 
mould or bowl. Fill in the centre with drained cherries. Place more bread over 
the top. Pour over any remaining jelly mixture and set in a cool place until 
firm. Turn out and serve with whipped cream or custard sauce. 

Peach Dreams — 

Use one 16-oz. can fancy peaches. On a baking dish place halved peaches 
round side down. In each hollow place a marshmallow. Put in the oven until 
the marshmallow is softened and golden brown. Remove and chill. Make a 
sauce using 3 tbsp. sugar, 2 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. cornstarch and juice from the 
peaches. Melt butter, add sugar. Stir until slightly browned. Add peach syrup 
which has been heated. Boil together until sugar is all dissolved. Mix corn- 
starch with a little cold water, add boiling syrup, cook until clear; cool. 
Arrange peaches in sherberl glasses. Pour sauce over and serve very cold. 



12 

Peach es w i hi Junket — 

In the bottom of sherbert glass place \ peach. Pour plain junket over. 
When set chill and serve. 

Peach Tapioca — 

1 cup tapioca 3 cups water 

1 cup juice from canned J tsp. salt 

peaches 1 cup sliced canned peaches. 

Soak tapioca in the water over night. Add peach juice and cook in a double 
boiler until clear — about one hour. Add peaches and turn into a cold, wet 
mould. Chill; turn out; serve with cream or custard — serves six. 

Pear Porcupines — 

Colour red the syrup from 1 can of pears. Bring the pears to a boil in this 
syrup and allow to stand until cool, when they should be coloured a soft pink. 
In individual serving dishes place four tbsp. custard sauce. Stick the round 
side of each pear half with blanched browned almonds and place the pear in 
the custard. Chill and serve. 

Pineapple Rice — 

Cook in the double boiler ^ cup rice with 2 cups milk. When cooked add 
1 cup shredded or diced pineapple and allow to cool. Just before serving fold 
in 1 cup whipped cream — serves six. 

Pineapple Cake — 

4 tbsp. butter 2 eggs 

4 tbsp. sugar ^ cup pineapple juice 

1^ cups flour sifted with 2\ tsp. baking powder. 

•J cup drained, shredded or cubed pineapple. 
Cream the butter and sugar together; add well beaten egg yolks, then pine- 
apple juice and flour sifted with baking powder. Adding these a small portion 
at a time, alternately, making a better textured cake. Fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites and add the pineapple which has been dredged with flour. Bake. 

Plum Puffs — 

In the bottom of individual moulds place 3 canned plums. Cover with juice 
and over them pour the following batter: — 

2 cups pastry flour sifted with 3 tsp. baking powder, 
1 egg, -J cup sugar, f cup milk, 3 tbsp. butter. 

Cream, butter and sugar. Add egg, then milk and sifted flour alternately. 
Steam or bake at 350° F. for 25 minutes. Serve with hard sauce. 

Strawberry Custard — 

1 cup strawberry custard 3 eggs 

1 cup milk 

Place strained berries in the bottom of a baking dish. Pour the custard 
mixture over the fruit and bake until set, having the baking dish set in a pan 
of water. When cold turn out before serving. 

Raspberry Trifle — 

2 cups stale cake crumbs 1 cup raspberries 
2 cups raspberry juice 1 tbsp. gelatine 

2 tbsp. cold water 
Soak gelatine in cold water. Heat berry juice and pour over. Arrange 
cake crumbs and berries in a serving dish. Pour hot jelly mixture over. Set 
aside to harden. Chill and serve with custard sauce — serves six. 



Full information regarding regulations controlling commercial canned fruits 
and vegetables is given in the Meat and Canned Foods Act, copies of which may 
be obtained by writing the Fruit and Vegetable Division Marketing Service, 
Department of Agriculture, Ottawa. 

OTHER PUBLICATIONS 

Canadian Grown Apples 

Canning Fruits and Vegetables 

Jams, Jellies and Pickles 

Salads that are Different 

Canadian Vegetables for Every Day 



Ottawa: Printed by J. O. Patenaude, I. >.()., Printer to the King's Most Excellent Majesty, 1 040. 



CAUBCA OTTAWA K1A 0C5 



3 9073 00230273 7 



