The Soldier 
and his Food 



& 

Dedicated to the Women of the United States 
in the belief that the story of the Army of the 
United States is of great interest to them as citi- 
zens and of deep concern to them as Mothers, 
Wives, and Sisters of the Soldiers 



PREPARED BY 
THE WOMEN'S INTERESTS SECTION 
WAR DEPARTMENT, BUREAU OP PUBLIC RELATIONS 

19 4 2 



Other Pamphlets 
in this Series 

The Soldier and His Religion 
Tlic Soldier and His Health 
The Soldier and His Uniform 
The Soldier and His Housekeeping 
The Soldier and His Recreation 



dnttto statu ooveKKwewt p«wrac oraca, wahunqtok. 1942 



The Soldier 
and his Food 



* 

"How's the food?" 

This is one of the first questions the civilian asks 
the soldier. 

"The chow's swell," a large number of the men will 
reply enthusiastically. 

"It's okay," some of the more epicurean eaters 
will say. 

And of course, there will always be a few who 
grouse- — 4 * Awful .' * 

Whatever the individual answer may be, the Army 
answer, based on statistics, is satisfactory: During his 
first few months at camp, the average trainee gains 
between 6 and 10 pounds. A boy is not likely to put 
on weight, if he is not getting enough to eat. 

He is getting enough to eat. Our American soldier 
is better fed than any other fighting man in the world 
today. He is also better fed than at least 60 percent 
□f the civilian population of the United States. The 
"V*' of his daily diet includes both variety and vitamins. 



Science and Savor 
Uncle Sam is, today, an outstanding nutritionist. 

His first assistant in this field is Miss Mary I. Barber, 
food consultant to the Quartermaster Corps; and her 
associate is Mrs. Meryl P. Stone. Both these women 
are experienced dietitians. They appreciate the value 
of a well-balanced meal. They also know the merit 
of a well-cooked meal. 

They combine these two goals. They seek to give 
the soldier pie "like mother used to bake " and the 
vitamins the doctor ordered. 

Nutrition has joined the Army. Its new military 
rank is giving it new civilian recognition. 

"It is too bad," says Miss Barber, "that War was 
the gun which starded American women out of die 
complacent certainty that their families were well 
fed." 

But the gun did sound. The physical examina- 
tions, and the resultant rejections, of thousands of 
young men summoned for service, focused attention 
on the nutritional deficiencies of many an American 
diet. 

"The impact of this newly aroused interest in better 
nutrition," she continues, "should be so forceful that 
it will be felt forever throughout the world." 

Lt. Col. Paul P. Logan, of the Quartermaster Corps, 
adds other confident words: 

"Because of the research in the Subsistence Labora- 
tory, under the supervision of Col. Rohland Isker, 



2 



and the planning by the Quartermaster Corps,, the 
United States Army is having one of the greatest 
experiences of our generation — the correct feeding of 
\y 2 million men three times each day. In my opinion, 
this experience in correct eating on such a grand scale 
will have a definite effect on national eating habits 
and national economy after the war." 

Definition of Terms 

In any discussion of Army food, there is frequent 
reference to "mess" and "ration" and other military, 
culinary terms. It will be helpful to define them. 

Mess is not a soldier's slang for a meal he does not 
find appetizing. It is an ancient and honorable 
term in any man's dictionary. It comes from the 
old French word "mis" meaning to place on the 
table. That, in turn, traces its lineage to the Latin 
"missus" which means a course at a meal. In the 
Army, mess means the whole meal, or, in wider 
use, all meals. 

Ration was originally defined as the money value of 
a soldier's food for one day. Today the term has 
been expanded to mean the soldier's food issue. 

Garrison Rations are defined as peacetime rations. 
They are ones usually fed soldiers at Army post or 
camp. 

Field Rations are those fed the soldier under real, 
or simulated, combat conditions. They are divided 
into several categories, to be discussed later. 



3 



Iron Rations. This is the popular term for food 
that comes in cans and is taken along by the soldier 
on long marches when there is not time nor oppor- 
tunity to cook on a held range. 

Costs T Calculations, and Contents 

Costs 

Today's soldier eats at the finest Army mess in the 
world. His individual ration costs Uncle Sam 48 
cents a day, or $175.20 a year, an all-time high in 
Army budgeting. In World War I, the daily cost of 
feeding a soldier was 26 cents. 

During 1941, as the number of new soldiers rose to 
a million and a half, their daily food bill rose to some- 
thing like S720,000. Of this sum, more than $100,000 
went every day for the purchase of fruits and vege- 
tables, rare delicacies in past wars. Even in the Army 
mess of 1917, very little fruit was served, except the 
inevitable prunes. 

Calculations 

The average healthy, hungry soldier eats about 5% 
pounds of food a day. This radon contains about 
4,500 calories, which is an estimated 1,500 to 3,000 
more than many a well-fed civilian adult receives. 

Medical studies indicate that many American diets 
are deficient in calcium and phosphorus. But not 



4 



the soldier's. His daily ration of milk is a certain 
safeguard against that lark. 

The vitamin A in butter and milk is good for the 
eyes. Milk also contains the important vitamin Bjj 
and valuable minerals, fats, and carbohydrates. 

Contents 

This technical talk of calories is all right for the 
Army dietitian; but the average soldier would rather 
have beans than vitamins. He does not want to eat 
a carbohydrate, "whatever that is." And he thinks 
it is pretty foolish— all this fuss over a "well-balanced" 
meal. But he usually comes back for seconds. 

To provide a week of "well-balanced" meals for one 
soldier, the mess sergeant is likely to have a grocery 
list of peacetime rations that reads something like 
this, for the basic items: 

Weekly Requirements per Man 

6% lbs. of meats, of which a half is probably beef, 
veal, and lamb; a third pork, ham, and bacon; 
with the rest poultry and fish. 

7 eggs. 

V/i pints of fresh milk, 1% lbs. of evaporated milk, 
plus cheese and ice cream; with a total fluid milk 
equivalent of over a pint. 

Over a pound of butter and other fats. 

Sji lbs. of bread, cereals, and other grain products. 

5 lbs. of potatoes. 

5 lbs. of fresh and canned vegetables. 

lbs. of tomatoes, citrus fruits, and other fruits. 



5 



There will, of course, be appropriate seasonal and 
geographical variations, since the Army, whenever 
possible, eats "locally" and with proper regard for 
what is in the market. 

Let us break down this grocery list into some of its 
individual items. 

Meat. Meat is the backbone of the Army menu. 
Fresh, salted, dried, and canned meats— all are used. 
It is served twice, sometimes three times, a day. 
Roasts and stews predominate. The reason for this, 
the Quartermaster realistically points out, is that 
even Army regulations cannot find a whole carcass 
made up solely of steaks or lamb chops. The basic 
meats used are beef, pork, lamb, ham, and bacon. 

Fruits and Vegetables. After a few weeks in 
camp, the boys who wanted only hominy with their 
meat begin to tuck away fruits and vegetables with a 
zest. They are provided with an ample amount of 
each, both fresh and canned. The average menu 
calls for at least two pieces of fruit or the equivalent 
fruit juice a day. It also lists two vegetables, in addi- 
tion to potatoes, and specifies that one of them should 
be leafy. 

Ice Cream. In garrison the Army serves ice cream, 
on the average, twice a week; oftener if the weather 
is hot, or the climate warm. 

Every now and then comes along the complaint 
that the soldiers are not getting it, at a certain camp, 
on Sunday, the nation's traditional ice cream and 



6 



cake day. Investigation will probably show that, if 
they are not getting it on Sunday, it is because Sunday 
is "free" day at camp. Many of the men are invited 
out for dinner. A thoughtful mess sergeant will, 
therefore, often choose to serve the "fancy" meal in 
midweek when the majority of men can be there to 
enjoy it. 

Coffee. Some like it with chicory; some like it 
black; but all the soldiers seem to like coffee. In 
order to insure it the best flavor, the Army roasts it 
at the last possible moment. For instance, in the 
Chicago Quartermaster Depot, which supplies 17 
Midwestern States, coffee is shipped in green: stored 
until just a few hours before roasting and then sent to 
the field. 

Mess Call 

The new recruit, the experienced "top Sarge" — 
they both think that the sweetest music in the Army 
is mess call. But they never hear more than its first 
few notes. The rest is drowned out by the scurry and 
scramble of hungry men rushing to get to the tabic as 
soon as possible. 

An old Army adage points out that: "A soldier 
never misses a meal, but he sometimes postpones 
one." That is true for marching men. For men in 
barracks, however, there is an unwritten but powerful 
law: A meal must never be iate, not a minute, not a 
second late. 



■i«24S e -« 1 



7 



In his zeal to be punctual, the Army cook sometimes 
starts his meal too soon. This, says Miss Barber, may 
be the explanation for the occasional complaint that 
the food is overdone. 

The average mess feeds about 200 men. An officer 
often eats with the men, to be able to give first hand 
evidence about the quality of the cooking, the quan- 
tity of the servings. The meal may be served cafeteria 
or family style. The men go back for seconds, or even 
thirds, as long as they last. Extra bread, coffee, 
water, etc., are brought to the table, amid good 
natured banter, by waiters especially signed to this 
job. 

In tfie Army, eating is a serious business. It is also 
a gay and noisy business. The mess hall is likely to 
be a bedlam of crockery and cudery in action; of con- 
tinual, and never silent, spooning and pouring; of 
shouted chatter; of the clumping of the waiter's boots 
across the floor. And, over in the far corner, the 
inevitable quartet harmonizing "The White Cliffs of 
Dover." 

The table talk is vivid, and to the point. 

"Gimme me some cat beer," summons the waiter 
with the jug of milk. 

"Irish grapes" refers, of course, to white potatoes. 

And when a soldier announces he is going to get 
"seconds on kennel rations" he means but one 
thing—he wants another helping of meat loaf. 

The meal takes 10, 15 minutes; 20 if it's a special 



8 



feast day. When it's over, the men rush out of the 
hall, just as they had rushed into it, only not so fast. 

Food Preferences and Prejudices 

The food faiths in the Army mess hall arc almost as 
strong as the religious faiths in the Army chapel. 

The soldier of Scandinavian ancestry must have his 
coffee; the soldier with British background wants his 
roast beef. There are the usual racial preferences for 
spaghetti, for Irish stew, for highly seasoned foods. 

There are also definite regional as well as racial 
tastes. The poor mess sergeant has a difficult time 
making the Yankee stationed down in Dixie take to the 
sacred corn bread. The native sons of Florida and 
Massachusetts agree that fish is fine; but argue long 
and loyally over the merits of the fish from their 
respective States. 
Sometimes it is possible to make a food convert. 

Michigan's "Patsy" 

For example: When the men from the 94th Coast 
Artillery, many of them from northern Michigan, were 
sent down to Camp Davis, N. C, they took along their 
cherished recipe for "Patsy" or "walking meat pie"— 
a sturdy dainty introduced into Michigan's mining 
communities by Englishmen a number of years ago. 
Similar to meat pie, its folds of stiff crust are filled with 
meat and potatoes, with carrots and peas, with celery 



9 



and beans and spices; in fact, as the lads from Michi- 
gan instructed the Army cook "Just put in anything in 
the kitchen that isn't fastened down." 

The result was a triumph for "Patsy," in the South 
as well as in the North. 

Oklahoma's Food Fiesta 

Today's soldier in training eats well. But nobody 
tries to tempt his appetite. The Army cook has all he 
can do, just to cook. He has neither the time nor the 
desire to coax or cajole. 

But sometimes, in the spirit of fun and with an 
appreciation of the value of such a survey, an Army 
official will conduct an experiment— sort of a gourmet's 
Gallup Poll. 

This happened at Fort Silk Okla., not so long ago. 
Lt. Col. I. A. Kurtz, the commanding officer at the 
Reception Center, asked every member of the Perma- 
nent Reception Center Personnel (mainly recruits) 
to submit his ideal menu for a day. 

"The sky's the limit" was the unofficial word. 

"But see that it's a well-balanced meal "was the 
official suggestion. 

The result was a remarkable collection of food data, 
revealing and helpful. Certainly, the soldiers asked 
for delicacies, but delicacies which were, for the most 
part, neither extravagant nor exotic. First in popular 
demand was "a big. juicy steak and a slab of apple pie." 



IO 



Many of the men listed fruit juices and pics and 
shrimp cocktail, and avoided buffalo steaks and caviar. 
Some of the men had amusing and amazing choices. 

One man wanted "lots of lettuce for breakfast." 

Another pined for a mushroom -omelet at least once 
a day; still another yearned for lobster for lunch. 
Double-deck pumpkin was a filling suggestion. 

After the menus had been submitted, the Center held 
a food fiesta for 10 days, during which time the mess 
sergeant used every suggested item when it was at all 
possible to do so. 

The idea of such a fiesta has been copied, with equal 
success, in other camps. 

Nation's Mixing Bowl 

The Army is a huge mixing bowl; never more so 
than at the table. 

The boy who has been brought up on pasteurized 
milk and fresh vegetables out of season may sit next to 
the boy who was raised on fat back and turnip greens. 
The boy from Michigan may sit opposite the boy from 
Mississippi. 

Such a variety of tastes would present a problem to 
a cook in a boarding house or at a church supper. 
Ask the mother of five children with finicky appetites 
if she does not have her troubles. The Army has to 
please the palates of a million and a half men from all 
parts of the country and all walks of life. 

II 



General Favorites 



There are, however, certain food items that are 
popular from Maine to Texas. 

Pie is a universal favorite. Apple pie first; then 
cherry and peach. The pies are baked in large rec- 
tangular pans. Each "sheet" is cut into 70 squares. 
The cook says these pieces taste just as good as the 
traditional triangle; but the boys insist they prefer 
pic with points. 

Steak is popular. All the boys like bacon and eggs. 
Doughnuis disappear rapidly. Soldiers eat more meat 
and bread than any other food. Coffee is the favorite 
drink, with iced tea a close second in summer. 

And beans — there is still a sentimental attachment 
to beans. There is a story going the rounds at nearly 
every camp — about the mother who wrote her son 
asking what special delicacy she could send him. He 
wrote back two words — "Baked Beans." 

/few Verm Old 

Veteran mess sergeants, weaned on hard tack and 
"bully beef" of World War I, find it hard to believe 
times have changed from the old days when the Army 
cook could fix any food, so ran the saying, "so long as 
it was beans." 

There have been many culinary changes. 

Today's trainee eats salad and often likes it. The 
new soldier drinks half a pint of milk a day and likes 
it; the old-timer preferred canned milk. Your old 

12 



"regular" could not have been hired, they say, to eat 
cooked breakfast foods. The 1942 soldier is partial 
to these cereals. 

The new Army is also eating more than the old 
Army. Virtually ail the old Army recipes have had 
to be revised, with their portions increased to match 
the appetite of the new recruits. Dietitians explain 
that the new Army is made up of younger boys who 
arc still growing and need more food. They get it. 

When the boys complain, as a few do, that they are 
not getting enough to eat, they really mean they are 
not getting enough of the food they have been used 
to. That is Miss Barber's explanation, based on a 
detailed survey. 

recruit who skipped the mess' regular meals of meat 
and potatoes and carrots and salad and banana pud- 
ding, and so on, to go to the post exchange every 
mealtime and eat a couple of hamburgers and a "hot 
dog'* or two. His peacetime job had kept him on the 
road much of the time, and he had formed the custom 
of eating his meals at roadside diners. 

Cook or Chef 

The old "regular" sometimes jests that the Army 
cook he used to know has been streamlined into a 
"chef." He may be right. 

The modern Army cook goes to the School for 
Bakers and Cooks and is put through a stiff course> 



13 



during which he learns to be not only cook and 
butcher and baker but also something of a nutritionist 
and a food economist. 

He has to know the right answers for questions like 
these: 

"What is a calorie?" 

"Define yeast" 

"What is the food value of milk?" 
"Name the vitamins in the B complex," 
He is also laught the fine points of quartering beef 
and lamb, and is trained to acquire a surgeon's dex- 
terity with a carving knife. 

"The Army Cook" 

"The Army Cook" is not a person; it is a book, 
probably the most widely read book in the rArmy. It 
is the official textbook of the "Bakers and Cooks'' 
schools. First written years ago, it has been brought 
up to date to tit changing food habits. 

The first half of the book is a text on foods and 
equipment. 

The second half contains more than 300 recipes, 
each planned to serve 100. It can thus be easily mul- 
tiplied for the average mess, which runs from 175 to 
200 men. 

Leafing through the pages we find rules for a well- 
balanced meal. 

For instance, there is the caution against serving 
more than one of the following at the same meal; 



, cabbage, cauliflower, sauerkraut. A 

similar recommendation about: Kohlrabi, parsnips, 
rutabagas, and turnips. Carrots and peas must not 
share honors with either corn or beans. And never 
pumpkin with squash. 

Menu Allotments 

Turning more pages of the book, wc find a list of a 
day's possible food requirements, with ample provi- 
sion for die differences thai depend on season and 
location. 

Breakfast. Fresh or canned fruit (fruit juice may 
be substituted). Cooked or ready-to-eat cereal. 
Nourishing food such as eggs, sausages, or chipped beef. 
Toasted breads, hot bread, French toast, rolls or 
doughnuts. Coffee or cocoa. There is also mention 
of fresh milk, butter, jams, jellies, marmalades, and 



Dinner. In the Army dinner comes at noon. Per- 
haps a well-seasoned soup, except in hot weather. In 
addition to potatoes, two or more vegetables, one of 
which should be leafy (or a salad substitute) to provide 
valuable minerals and vitamins. Some form of bread, 
butter, a beverage, and a dessert. 

Supper. The main dish usually contains a "build- 
ing" food. There is also a vegetable relish, besides 
potatoes. A salad is likely, if one has not been served 
at dinner. Bread in some form, butter, a beverage, 
and dessert. 



'5 



The desserts, for both dinner and supper, are usually 
simple, filling dishes: pie, sheet cake, fruit cobbler, 
rice, bread or banana pudding, fruit and cookies. The 
winter beverages arc coffee and cocoa, and occasional 
hot tea. Iced tea is summer's number one drink. 
Both winter and summer, there is the daily half pint 
of fresh milk for every man. 

The cook book, giving heed to frugality as well as 
flavor, urges that "Full advantage should be taken of 
all left-over food," but counsels that these left-overs 
should be used immediately, at the next meal. Vege- 
tables go into soups and salads; bread makes Brown 
Betty, croutons for soup, meat stuffing. Left over 
potatoes come out as fried, or in potato cakes. 




Army "chow" looks good to civilians, too, according 
to this story from Fort Jackson, S. C. 

One day, so runs the talc the soldiers love to tell, 
Citizen John Doe walked into a large dining room, 
pulled his chair up to the long table, picked up a menu 
and read the following: 

BAKED HAM 

SWEETPOTATOES STRING BEANS 

CUCUMBER AND GREEN ONION SALAD 
BREAD AND BUTTER 
BREAD PUDDING 
COFFEE 

16 



"Hey," Citizen Doe called to the waiter, ''this looks 
pretty good. How much are you charging ior it?" 

"Sorry, sir," the khaki-clad waiter replied, "you'll 
have to join the Army to get that grub. The Quar- 
termaster Corps buys that food for soldiers only. 
You can buy the same thing down the street, for 65 
cents." 

Quartermaster Plan 

Eating is a serious business, for the soldiers who eat 
the food, and for the cooks who prepare the food. It 
is a serious business, and tremendous, for the Quar- 
termaster Corps whose jobs it is to provide the meals 
for a million and a half men. This meal planning 
divides itself into three parts: Procurement, Menu 
Making, and Food Preparation. 

Procurement 

In normal times the garrison ration is used. Un- 
der this arrangement, each mess sergeant makes his 
own menus and purchases his supplies from local mer- 
chants and the post commissary on a money credit — 
just as the civilian buys and charges his provisions at 
the corner grocery. The mess sergeant may purchase 
anything he desires so long as he does not exceed the 
allowance (about 48 cents per day per man) set by 
the commanding officer. 

Today, in time of war, the field-ration system is 
used. Field ration A is being used, and this is as 



*7 



near like garrison ration as possible. The main dif- 
ference lies in the method of purchase. Instead of a 
money credit, actual food is provided. 

To assure well-balanced meals, and to prevent the 
neighboring civilian from being penalized or incon- 
venienced, a central purchasing plan for perishables 
has been set up. There are 30 marketing centers 
where specialists advise with the Quartermasters of 
the nearby posts; get prices and bids; and are guided 
in their buying by the availability and condition of 
supplies. Staples are also bought centrally. Canned 
goods, in quantities, are purchased by the Chicago, 
New York, and San Francisco Quartermaster Depots. 

Menu Planning 

In May 1941, acting on directions from Gen. 

George C. Marshall, Chief of Staff, each of the nine 
Corps Area Commanders appointed someone (usually 
the commandant of the Bakers and Cooks School) 
to be responsible for all the menus used in his area. 

The menu, for a month, complete with a list of 
components and amounts for 100 men, is sent to the 
Subsistence Branch of the Quartermaster in Wash- 
ington, well in advance of the date on which it is to 
be used. 

Once in Washington, the menu is studied carefully 
by Miss Barber and others. To be approved, it must 
satisfactorily meet these questions: 
Is sufficient food provided? 

i8 



Are the menus varied enough to avoid monotony? 
(The month's menu must NOT have the same com- 
binations on the same day each week.) 

Are the menus simple enough to be practical under 
Army conditions? (A delightful dinner for two, when 
multiplied to feed a mess of 175, might present a 
number of oven problems.) 

Are the menus sufficiently flexible to allow sub- 
stitutes of one food for another that is fresher and 
more abundant at the time the purchase is made? 

Are the menus nutritious? Here a specialist in 
Washington sets to work and calculates every com- 
ponent for calories, protein, fat, vitamins, and minerals. 

Food Preparation 

It may or may not be true that cooks are born, not 
made. In the Army they all have to be trained. The 
rapid increase of the Army caused a shortage of 
trained cooks and bakers and mess sergeants. In 
normal times, there was one "B and C" School in 
each of the nine Corps Areas. Some subschools have 

already been established and more are in progress of 
being set up. The faculty in each is composed of 
several officers, skilled in both teaching and practical 
work. Courses are given in cooking and baking, in 
nutrition, in menu making, in accounting, and in 
mess management. The students are, many times, 
men who have had some cooking experience in civil 
life. 



•9 



Other Field Rations 



Wc have been discussing the method of feeding the 
soldiers in camp. Other types of Field Rations have 
been developed lo meet emergency conditions. 

Field Ration B 

This is a reserve ration made up entirely of non- 
perishable food. Every post has enough B-ration to 
feed the men. should the supply of perishables be 
temporarily cut off. All the meats are canned. The 
vegetables are either canned or dehydrated. Canned 
milk is used. 

Ration B is divided into 2 classifications: Menu 1, 
or Tropical Menu; Menu 2, or Frigid Menu. Both 
of these menus, prepared in the Office of the Quarter- 
master General, for use the first 30 days of an expe- 
ditionary task force, are balanced as to nutritional 
value and variety. Every item is nonperishable, and 
may be held without deterioration and without 
refrigeration. 

In the case of each menu, miscellaneous items will 
be issued every 10 days, or as often as the Field 
Commander desires. Most of the foods are precooked 
and need little more than seasoning and heating. 

In the Tropical Menu, canned butter is considered 
as a nonperishable item. Whenever available, frozen 
boneless beef is recommended in preference to corned 



20 



beef. In addition to the fruits and juices supplied 
for breakfast, and cold drinks, lemon crystals and 
orange crystals are provided. 

In the Frigid Menu, powdered whole milk is sup- 
plied to fill the needs whenever milk is required except 
in the bread formula. 

Field Ration C 

This is a high energy diet, prepared for marching 
men far from a field kitchen. It consists of 3 canned 
dinners: meat and beans— meat and vegetable stew— 
meat and vegetable hash. Each dinner has a com- 
panion can which contains: 2% ounces of biscuit, JJ 
ounce sugar, % ounce soluble coffee, and 5 pieces of 
hard candy. This newly developed biscuit is a cross 
between a bread and a cracker, with a sufficient 
amount of leavening to make it crisp. It is extremely 
palatable and much more popular than the hard 
"pilot" bread. There is enough soluble coffee in each 
can to make a pint. 

The five pieces of candy, a recent substitute for 1 
chocolate wafer, will, it is hoped, "space" the eating 
of the confection. Fatigue tests at the University of 
Minnesota revealed that soldiers get more energy out- 
put if the sugar they eat is consumed periodically 
through the day rather than a large quantity at 
meals. 

Each of the six cans has a can opener attached. 
But the cans may be opened only when the commander 



21 



gives the order. These emergency rations have both 
more variety and nutrition than those of World War I. 

Field Ration D 

Ration D, known also as the "Logan Bar" (in honor 
of Colonel Logan), is the real "Emergency" ration. It 
consists of sweetened chocolate, stabilized to a high 
melting point by the inclusion of oat flour. It is put 
up in 4-ounce bars and wrapped with material which 
will protect it against gas and moisture. Each bar 
provides about 600 calories and a ration consists of 
three of these bars. 

It is intended that several cases of these bars will 
be carried on the combat trains or company kitchens 
for use in an emergency when all other sources of 
food supply are temporarily interrupted. It will be 
issued to men who are dispatched from the main 
column on patrol, scouting duty, or other missions 
where the issue may be impractical. It may also be 
issued to front line troops as a confection. 

Field Ration K 

This type of emergency ration was originally 
designed for use by the Air Corps personnel who 
might be forced down at points miles from a settle- 
ment. Compact and concentrated, it is packed in 
3 containers, each with an average weight of \2% 
ounces. 



22 



The mainstay of this ration is a "pemmican biscuit" 
containing virtually all the essentials of a balanced 
diet. Each package also contains 4 graham crackers 
and a stick of cheAving gum. 

The breakfast contains powdered soluble coffee with 
sugar, malted milk tablets, a small tin of meat loaf. 
The dinner package has, in addition to the ever 
present pemmican biscuit, a tin of pork, a tube of 
bouillon paste, and a supply of dextrose tablets. The 
supper has cervelat sausage, some candy, and tablets 
for making lemonade. 

Emergency rations for parachute and ski troops arc 
being developed and concentrated "fatigue" rations 




The science of nutrition has joined the art of cook- 
ing, to make our modern American soldier the best 
fed in history and in the world today. This union of 
skills marks a considerable progress since the days of 
1917, and a tremendous one since the nation first 
began to feed its fighting men. 

History 

The story of the development of the Army mess 
presents a pageant of foods, all the way from 
hardtack to French dressing 

Revolutionary War 

On November 4, 1775, the day after creating the 
office of General, and electing George Washington to 



23 



fill that post, the Continental Congress passed a 

resolution: "That there be one Commissary General 

of Stores and Provisions." 

The ration consisted of: 

t pound beef, or % pound pork, or 1 pound salt fish per day. 
1 pound bread or flour per day. 
3 pints peas or beans per week. 
1 pint milk per day. 

% pint rice or 1 pint Indian Meal per week. 

1 quart spruce beer or cider per day, or 9 gallons molasses 

per 100 men per week. 
3 pounds candles per 100 men per week, for guards. 
8 pounds hard soap per 100 men per week. 

A legislative history, printed in 1877, from which this 
report is taken, points out that the reference to milk 
was interesting, for it was not available that first 
winter and from then on was not mentioned in the 
ration for over 100 years. 

In 1799 the liquor was discontinued, but the Com- 
mander in Chief of the Army or the Commanding 
Officer of any detachment was authorized to issue to 
the troops "from time to time, rum, whiskey, or other 
ardent spirits (not to exceed % gill per man per day 
except on extraordinary occasions)." 

In those "good old days", the soldier was issued his 
ration uncooked each day. It was to be prepared by 
himself, later, over the glowing embers of the camp fire. 

War of 1812 

1812 brought a slight change in the ration allow- 
ance. 



24 



Per man per day: 

1% pounds beef or % pound pork. 
18 ounces bread or flour. 
1 gill rum, whiskey, or brandy. 



2 quarts salt. 

4 quarts vinegar. 

4 pounds soap. 



am 

In a southern climate the ruling became "Give 

molasses in lieu of whiskey and beer, and add to the 

ration y 2 pint of peas, beans, or rice per day." Orders 
were given to cultivate garden vegetables at permanent 
posts. The Secretary of War, J. C. Calhoun, made a 
long speech about Army feeding. He felt the food 
should be improved in both quantity and quality 
and urged that spirits be dispensed with. 

A quaint nutrition note was issued: 

"Pickles, on account of the vegetable acid, are both 
a pleasant and healthy stimulant to the stomach." 

War between the Slates 

There were three rations in effect during tins period, 
all substantially the same, with a decrease in this 
commodity balancing an increase in that one. 

Basically, the ration consisted of beef, flour, dry 
beans, green coffee, sugar, vinegar, and salt. Yeast 
powder and black pepper were the outstanding ad- 
ditions. Soap and candles were still included. The 

25 



history of Array feeding recalls that during the Civil 
War rations were "not always available" and that 
frequently the soldier had to live by foraging upon 
the surrounding country. 

Spanish- American War 

The significant change in this ration was the dis- 
appearance of the much disliked hard tack. 

World War I 

At the time the United States entered the World 
War, the Army was using a Garrison ration established 
in 1913. This was used in the continental United 
States throughout the war, except that in 1918 two 
articles (sweetpotatoes and corn meal) were added to 
the list of substitute articles 

Ounces 



Beef 20 

Flour 18 

Baking powder 08 

Beans, dry 2.4 

Potatoes, fresh 20 

Prunes 1.28 

Syrup 32 

Coffee, R. & G 1.12 

Sugar 3.2 

Milk, evaporated 5 

Vinegar gill .16 

Salt 64 

Pepper, black 04 

Cinnamon, ground 014 



2 6 



Butter 

Lard 

Flavoring extract, lemon 



0.5 
.64 
.014 
.64 
.24 



Candle 



The Army's food bill for 1917-18 was 5727,092,430.- 
44. The daily cost of feeding a soldier was 26 cents. 

Today's soldier eats 48 cents worth of food a day. 
Today's soldier gains, on the average, from 6 to 10 
pounds during the first few months of camp life. 
Today's soldier is the best fed soldier in the world and 
in history. 

But today's soldier, like every soldier in history and 
in the world, loves to get a cake from home. 



