
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 



AWI-47 



MEET THE BEAN FAMILY 



Navy beans . . . Great Northerns . . . Cali- 
fornia Whites ■ . . Lima beans . . . Kidney 
beans . . . Pintos . . . Pinks— these and many 
others. People everywhere have their favorites 
in the dried-bean family. Close cousins to the 
beans are dried peas — black-eye, green, and 
yellow. 

No matter what the color, shape, name, 
dried beans and peas are on the list of main- 
dish foods. They are good pinch hitters for 
meat, fish, eggs, and cheese when supplies of 
these No. 1 protein foods are short. Beans 
also have the B vitamins, especially thiamine 
and riboflavin, iron, and many more food values. 

And dried beans and peas keep well ... all 
they need is a cool, dry place and a tight bag 
or can to shut out dust, bugs, and mice. 

Soak . , , Simmer . . . Season 

AFirst, pick over the beans or peas and throw out 
the bad ones. Wash in cold wafer, twice i( need 
be, to get out all grit. 

A Gi ve dried beans and peas plenty of time fo 
soalc — overnight or 5 or 6 hours. 

ASook them in soft water, if you can. Hard water 
toughens the skin. Old-time cooks caught rain 
water when they couldn't get soft wafer any other 

A Coot the beans in the water in which they are 
soaked fo save vitamins and minerals. If fhe bean 
flavor seems too strong, you may hove to drain 
them and add fresh water. 

A Keep the heat low as you cook beans and peas, 
and simmer rather than boil. 

AWatch the pot, too. Add water from time fo 
time. Dried beans and peas take up a lot of wafer. 

A Try new ways, old ways, when you season beans 
and peas. They're so mild themselves if takes a 
dash of this and that to make them tasfy. 

AServe them with something salt or sour, some- 
thing fresh and crisp, or something bright and spicy. 

Recipes given here serve six persons. 
In general, 2 cups (1 lb.) of dried beans or 
peas make 5 to 6 cups when cooked. 



MAKE THEM BEANS PLUS 



Plain Cooked for the Start 

Look over the beans or peas, picking out the 
bad ones. Wash and cover 2 cups of the beans 
or peas with 1}; quarts of cold water, and soak 
overnight. (If you forget to put them to soak 
overnight, 5 or 6 hours in lukewarm water will 
do the trick.) 

When ready to cook, add a teaspoon of salt 
and simmer slowly in the soaking water in a 
covered pan until the beans are tender but not 
broken. Add more water during cooking, if 
necessary. Season with salt and pepper. 

To add flavor cook beans with salt pork, 
sausage, bacon, or a ham bone. 

Serve In Style 

APlace a mound of hot cooked beans on a 
platter and surround with fried sausage cakes 
or links. 

A Cut frankfurters into thin slices and arrange 
on top of cooked beans in a shallow baking 
dish. Bake in a moderate oven until the frank- 
furters are hot through and through. 
A To cooked beans add white sauce and catsup 
mixed together. Sprinkle with grated cheese 
and bread crumbs, and brown in the oven. 
AFor a tasty tomato sauce to go with beans, 
cook a sliced onion in 2 tablespoons of fat. 
Blend in 2 tablespoons of flour and brown 
slightly. Stir in 2 cups of cooked tomatoes, 
season, and cook until thickened. If desired, 
add green or red sweet peppers, chopped fine. 
Serve hot over the hot beans. 
AFor bean "sausages," mash 3 cups of cooked 
beans. Mix well with a cup of bread crumbs, 
1 beaten egg, 1 teaspoon of sage, if desired, 
and salt and pepper to taste. Moisten with 
milk or bean liquid. Shape into the form of 
sausages, dip in raw egg beaten with a little 
water, then roll in bread crumbs. Brown in a 
little melted fat. 

ATo make a bean loaf, use the above recipe. 
Add a chopped onion, finely chopped celery, 
or some dried herbs if you like. Shape into 
a loaf, place in a shallow pan, pour a little 
melted fat over the top, and bake until well 
browned. Serve with hot tomato sauce. 



PICK YOUR FAVORITE 



North, East, South, West — every family has 
its favorite way of fixing beans or peas. Here 
are a few of the favorites. 

Boston Baked Beans 

To bake beans rich and brown in the Boston 
style, long slow cooking is necessary. 

Soak 2 cups of beans overnight in 1% quarts 
of cold water. In the morning simmer for 45 
minutes, or until the beans begin to soften. 

Score a K-P°imd! piece of salt pork and put 
half of the pork in the bottom of the bean pot. 
Add the beans and bury the other half of the 
pork in the top portion of the beans, with only 
the scored rind exposed. Mix 4 tablespoons of 
molasses, 1 to 2 teaspoons of salt, and % tea- 
spoon of mustard if desired, with a little hot 
water. | Pour over the beans. Cover with hot 

Put a lid on the pot and bake in a slow oven 
for 6 or 7 hours. Add a little hot water from 
time to time. During the last hour of baiting 
remove the lid to let the beans and pork brown 
on top. 

For Variety in Flavor. — Place a peeled 
onion in the bottom of the bean pot, or add the 
onion plus tomato catsup. Some New Eng- 
enders use mapie sirup or maple sugar in place 
of the molasses to sweeten their baked beans. 



Beans Baked the Michisan Way 

To 1 quart of beans that have already been 
cooked tender in water with a 4-ounce piece of 
salt pork, add 4 tablespoons of molasses or 
brown sugar and salt to season. Place in a 
shallow pan with enough of the bean liquid to 
moisten well. Slice the salt pork over the top. 
Brown in the oven. 



Beans Western 

Brown a chopped onion in a little fat. Add 
2 cups of tomatoes. Season with salt and pep- 
per. Bring to a boil and add 1 quart of cooked 
beans. Simmer 15 to 20 minutes. Sprinkle 
with parsley and serve hot. 



PICK YOUR FAVORITE 



Hopping John, Southern Style 

Cook a ham bone or knuckle in 2 quarts of 
water for 2 hours. Then add 1 cup of dried 
peas or beans that have been soaked overnight 
in cold water and cook until almost tender. 
Remove the ham bone, add a cup of washed 
rice, and salt and pepper. Boil gently about 
20 minutes, or until the rice is soft and the 
liquid almost cooked away. Serve hot. 

Mexican Style Beans 

Soak 2 cups of beans (pintos preferred) over- 
night in quarts of water. The next day, 
bring them to a boil and simmer for about 3 
hours. When the beans start to simmer, add 
a few bacon rinds. After 2 hours, add a minced 
clove of garlic and a dried red chili pepper, or 
chili powder, and salt to taste. The cooked 
juice should be thick. If desired, mash the 
beans and add grated cheese. 

Savory Bean Stew 

Soak and cook 1% cups of dry beans or peas 
in water in the usual way. In another pan 
fry }i to % cup of diced salt pork until crisp. 
Then brown }'» cup chopped onion in the salt 
pork fat, add % pound ground lean meat stir 
and cook slowly for S minutes. 

Combine meat, onion, salt pork, and 3 cups 
of cooked tomatoes with the cooked beans. 
Add salt and pepper and simmer until meat is 
tender and flavors well blended. 

Chile Con Came 

Add 2 to 4 teaspoons of chili powder and a 
bit of garlic, if desired, to the recipe for Savory 
Bean Stew. Red kidney or California Pink 
beans are favorites for chile con caxne. 

Succotash 

Chop and brown an onion in a little fat. 
Add 2 cups each of cooked corn and beans. 
Simmer for a few minutes. Season with salt 
and pepper and serve hot. If desired, add 
chopped green pepper for more flavor and color. 



PEAS PORRIDGE HOT 



A bowl of bean or split pea soup . . . piping 
hot with a slice of lemon and crisp bits of salt 
pork or bacon sprinkled over the top ... is 
something more than "just bean soup." 



Dried Bean or Pea Soup 

Soak 1 cup of dried beans or peas overnight 
in a quart of water. In the morning, add an- 
other quart of water, % pound of salt pork, an 
onion, and a few stalks of celery, if desired. 

Simmer until the beans or peas are tender. 
Remove the salt pork and rub the rest through 
a strainer if a smooth soup is wanted. Cut the 
salt pork into tiny pieces and return to the soup. 
Add a tablespoon of flour mixed well with a 
little water to keep the bean pulp from settling 
to the bottom. Stir, reheat, and season with 
salt and pepper. 

With Meat Leftovers. — In place of the salt 
pork in the recipe above, cook the beans with a 
ham bone, or add some chopped leftover meat, 
or a frankfurter cut into thin slices. 

Add Roasted Peanuts. — Finely chopped or 
ground peanuts are good in bean soup, also. 

With Tomatoes or Carrots. — These add a 
touch of color and a few more vitamins to bean 
or pea soup. 

For a "Hot" Soup. — Add a clove of garlic, 
half a chopped onion, 1 tablespoon oregano, and 
2 chili peppers. Strain after cooking. Heat 
again and serve. 



Bean Chowder 

1 cup dry beam 

1 cup diced carrots 

1 cup tomatoes 

\i cup shredded green 

pepper 
1 onion, chopped fine 



S teaspoons sail 

S tablespoons uncooked 
cracked wheal, or 
1 tablespoon tiour 

2 cups milk 

Pepper to taste 



Soak the beans overnight in 1% quarts of cold 
water. Cook in a covered pan until the beans 
begin to soften, then add the vegetables and 
cook until tender. Add salt and cracked wheat 
or flour mixed with a little cold water. Stir. 
Cook about 30 minutes. Add the milk and 
pepper, heat to boiling, and serve. 



IN SALADS 



Salad Suggestions 

Beans and peas are so hearty in themselves 
they make a salad that is more than just a side 
dish. They take kindly, also, to mixing with 
the something sour and the something raw 
every good salad needs. 

When you're mixing a salad, let yourself go. 
Try new combinations and you'll make a name 
for yourself as a salad mixer. 

Make up your own rules for salad dressings, 
too. Try a touch of garlic with the vinegar 
and oil or bacon fat. If you have fresh herbs 
in the garden, put them in dressing or salad 
itself to give it a different taste. 

Here are a few ways to use cold cooked beans 
or peas in hearty salads. Change the pattern 
to fit what's on the pantry shelf. 
ABeans, raw apple sliced with the skin on, 
moistened with salad dressing, and served on 
lettuce or other salad greens. 
ABlack-eye peas, chopped raw cabbage or cress 
and carrot, with vinegar and oil or other fat. 
ABeans or peas, diced cucumber, or tender raw 
turnip or radish or celery cut crosswise. 
A Lima beans, peanuts, moistened with salad 
dressing mixed with tomato catsup. 
ARed kidney beans, chopped green pepper, 
raw onion rings, and sliced tomato. 
ABeans or peas, chopped pickle or pickle rel- 
ish, chopped cooked beets on lettuce or dande- 
lion greens. 

ABits of leftover meat or fish, hard-cooked 
egg, or cheese make a bean salad even more of 
a main dish. 

Hot Bean Salad 

Cut 2 strips of bacon or salt pork into half- 
inch pieces and fry to a light brown. Add a 
third of a cup of chopped onion and brown 
lightly. Add 3 cups of boiled or baked beans, 
% teaspoon of mustard, Y* cup each of vinegar 
and water, and a dash of pepper. Simmer 
until the beans absorb the vinegar and the 
water. Serve hot. 

Double the recipe if you wish to serve hot 
bean salad as the main dish. 



IN SANDWICHES 



Hearty Sandwiches 

Season baked beans with plenty of minced 
onion, pickle relish, or catsup, and moisten 
with salad dressing. 

Finely chopped peanuts and cooked beans 
make another good sandwich combination — 
tasty and rich in food value. 

For an open-face sandwich, melt 2 table- 
spoons of fat in a saucepan, add 2 cups mashed 
beans, and stir over the fire for 5 minutes. 
Add about 1 cup of milk, 1 cup of grated cheese, 
salt and pepper to taste. Cook until the 
cheese is melted, stirring constantly. Serve 
on bread or toast, topping each with cress, 
sliced tomatoes, or onion if desired. 

Try some of the salad suggestions on the 
preceding page— many of them make excellent 
sandwich fillings. 



FONDREN LIBRARY 

S«„thftrn MctfcMitf University 

Issued by 
BUREAU OF HUMAN NUTRITION 
AND HOME ECONOMICS 
Agricultural Research Administration 
U. S. Department of Agriculture 
Washington, D. C. 
June 1943 



This pamphlet supersedes the unnumbered one, 
Dried Beans and Peas in Low Cost Meals. 



Foi rale by Supermiendenf of Documents, Washington, D. C. 
5 cents per copy,- J1 per 100 copies 



