
AWI-85 



US D6PART/A6 NT OF AGRIC ULTUR€ 



Tetters . . . spuds . . . murphies . . . Irish — call them 
what you will — potatoes belons on your priority list 
of foods for year-round eating. 

And Here's Why 

• Potatoes pack good food values under 
their brown jackets. When you eat them 
daily, you can get as much as one-fourth of 
your vitamin C quota, besides some of the 
B vitamins, iron and other important min- 
erals, and starch. 

• Potatoes are a cheap energy food. Penny 
for penny, they have more energy-giving 
value than any other vegetable. 

• Potatoes fit into any meal. You may 
serve them at breakfast, dinner, or supper. 

• And potatoes need not be fattening. One 
medium-sized potato has about 100 calories — 
no more than an apple or banana, and only 
half the calories of a medium-sized piece of 
pie or a hamburger and roll. If you're watch- 
ing weight, watch what you put on the pota- 
toes. It's the gravy, butter, or other fat that 
"piles up" calories. And it's the total of all 
the foods you eat that adds the pounds. 





Potato Tips 

Best potatoes are firm and clean, have shal- 
low eyes, and no cuts, decay, or green spots. 

For good mashed or baked potatoes, use a 
mealy, flaky variety of potato; for salads, 
creaming, and the like, use firm, waxy kinds 
that hold their shape. 

Get the Good From Potatoes 

• Best way to get most food value from 
potatoes is to cook them in their jackets. 

• And of the two ways of cooking potatoes 
in jackets, boiling conserves more vitamins 
than baking. 

• So — start with potatoes "boiled in their 
jackets" whether you're serving them pars- 
lied, mashed, creamed, hash-browned, or in 
salad. 

• When raw potatoes are called for, as in 
scallop or soup . . . keep the peelings thin. 

• Peel potatoes just before you cook them 
. . . don't let them soak. If you must peel 
them ahead of time, put them in salted water. 

• Best way to serve all potatoes is quick- 
cooked and steaming hot, for the longer they 
stand exposed to the air, the more vitamin C 
they lose. 

• But if you have left-overs, save them to 
start a good dish for another meal. And be 
sure to keep them covered and in a cold place 
till you're ready to use them. 

Recipes in this folder are for 6 servings 



& ir £ POTATOES FOR EVERY DAY # # 7V 



Boiled in Jackets 

First of all scrub the potatoes, then drop 
them into a kettle of boiling water . . . 
enough to cover them. Cook covered until 
tender; drain at once so the potatoes won't 
get waterlogged. 

Peel and season with table fat, meat drip- 
pings, or gravy, salt and pepper to taste. Or 
eat skins and all if they are small new 
potatoes. 

Quick Mashed 

Peel 6 medium-sized hot cooked potatoes. 
Mash thoroughly and quickly. Beat in hot 
milk a little at a time until potatoes are fluffy 
and smooth. Season with salt and pepper. 
If desired, add fat, finely chopped green 
pepper, pimiento, chives, or onion. 

Creamed — Plain With Garnish 

Peel and slice 6 medium-sized cooked pota- 
toes. Make a white sauce by blending 3 
tablespoons melted fat with 3 tablespoons 
flour; add 2 cups milk and VA teaspoons salt. 
Cook, stirring constantly, until mixture thick- 
ens. Add potatoes and heat. 

For a "different" taste or added food 
value — grate a little onion or cheese into the 
sauce, or stir in cooked peas and carrots or 
chopped parsley just before serving. 

For a baked dish. — Pour the creamed pota- 
toes into a greased baking dish. Sprinkle the 
top with bread crumbs mixed with melted fat. 
Bake in a moderately hot oven (375° F.) 15 to 
20 minutes or until crumbs are brown. 

Potato Scallop 

6 medium-sized potatoes. Pepper. 

2 tablespoons flour. 2 tablespoons fat. 

1 V2 teaspoons salt. 2 cups hot milk. 

Peel and slice the potatoes. Put a layer of 
potatoes in a greased baking dish. Sprinkle 
with part of flour, salt, and pepper. Dot with 
fat. Repeat until all the potatoes are used. 
Pour in the milk — use very fresh milk or it 
may curdle. Bake in a moderate oven (350° 
F.) for 1 hour or until the potatoes are tender 
and browned on top. Add more milk if the 
potatoes get dry. 



The Perfect Baked Potato 

Wash and dry potatoes of uniform size. 
Bake in a hot oven (425° F.) 40 to 60 minutes 
or until tender. 

If you want the skin to be soft, rub a little 
fat on the potato before baking. 

Cut crisscross gashes in the skin of the 
baked potato on one side. Then pinch the po- 
tato so that some of the soft inside pops up 
through the opening. Drop in meat drip- 
pings, bits of crisp-cooked salt pork, or table 
fat. 

Save fuel by baking potatoes when you 
oven-cook other food. If a moderate oven is 
called for, allow a little extra time for the 
potatoes to bake. 

Stuffed. — For an extra special, cut large 
baked potatoes in half lengthwise. Scoop out 
the inside. Mash; add fat and seasonings. 
Stir in hot milk and beat until fluffy and 
smooth. Stuff back into potato shells, brush 
top with melted fat, and brown in a hot oven. 

For a main dish, add chopped left-over 
cooked meat or grated cheese. 

Fried, Country Style 

Peel, and slice thin, enough raw potatoes to 
make 1 quart. Put in a frying pan with 2 
tablespoons of melted fat or meat drippings. 
Cover closely. Cook over medium heat 10 to 
15 minutes or until browned on the bottom. 
Turn and brown on the other side. If desired, 
brown a little chopped onion in the fat before 
adding the potatoes. 

Roast Potatoes 

Peel medium-sized potatoes and place 
around meat in roasting pan during the last 
hour or hour and a half of cooking the meat. 
Turn and baste potatoes occasionally with 
meat drippings. 

Potato Pancakes 

Grate 2 cups raw potatoes and mix imme- 
diately with 14 cup milk. Add 1 egg, beaten 
slightly, 2 tablespoons flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 
pepper, and 1 tablespoon finely chopped onion. 
Drop from a tablespoon onto a greased frying 
pan. Cook until well browned and crisp on 
both sides. Serve hot. 



HEARTY SOUPS AND SALADS 



GIVE LEFT-OVERS A "LIFT 



cups boiling water. 
4 cups milk. 
1 ¥i teaspoons salt. 
Pepper. 



Quick Potato Soup 

3 cups cubed potatoes. 
2 tablespoons chopped 

onion. 
2 tablespoons fat. 

Cook the potatoes, onion, and fat in the 
water until the potatoes are tender. Add the 
milk, salt, and pepper. Heat and serve. 

Potato Soup With Oatmeal 

4 cups meat stock, or use Yz cup chopped celery. 

bouillon cubes. H cup rolled oats. 

2 cups diced potatoes. Yi to 1 cup cooked 
\'i cup sliced onions. tomatoes. 

1 cup sliced carrots. Salt and pepper. 

To meat stock add potatoes, onions, carrots, 
and celery. Bring to boiling point. Grad- 
ually stir in the rolled oats. Simmer 20 min- 
utes or until vegetables are tender. Add the 
tomatoes. Season with salt and pepper and 
heat. 



Potato Hot Pot 

3 cups sliced or diced potatoes. 354 cups tomatoes. 

1 medium-sized onion, sliced. 1^4 teaspoons sail. 

2 tablespoons fat. Pepper. 

Cook the potatoes and onion in the fat 10 
minutes. Add the tomatoes, salt, and pep- 
per. Cover and simmer 25 to 30 minutes, or 
until potatoes are tender. 

For variety, add a cup of cooked green 
beans during the last 10 minutes of cooking, 
or add a dash of chili powder or a few sprigs 
of thyme, or sprinkle with a little grated 
cheese, just before serving. 

Potato Salad 

Hot. — Cook % cup diced salt pork until 
crisp. Add % cup vinegar, 14 cup water, 1 
medium-sized chopped onion, and 1 quart 
cubed cooked potatoes. Season with salt and 
pepper. Heat well. 

Cold. — Slice or dice cold cooked potatoes. 
Season with salt, chopped onion, and salad 
dressing. If desired, add sliced hard-cooked 
eggs. 



Hash Browned 

Add chopped cooked potatoes to a little fat 
in a frying pan. Season with salt and pep- 
per. Moisten with water — about 14 CU P f° r 
4 cups potatoes. Cook over low heat until 
brown on the bottom — don't stir. Serve 
folded in half. 

Potato hash. — Add chopped cooked meat 
and enough gravy or hot water to moisten. 
Brown on both sides. 

Potato Cakes 

Shape cold mashed potatoes into small 
cakes; roll in flour. Fry golden brown in a 
little fat. For variety, add to the mashed 
potatoes chopped cooked meat or fish, or 
grated cheese. 

Potato Crust 

Line a baking dish with mashed potatoes. 
Fill center with vegetable stew and left-over 
bits of meat or fish. Cover with mashed 
potatoes. Bake in a hot oven (400° F.) 
until hot through and brown on top. If you 
have just a little potato, make only the upper 
crust. 

Potato Puff 

To 3 cups mashed potatoes, add 1 egg yolk, 
hot milk to moisten, 2 tablespoons melted fat, 
salt, and any other seasoning you like. Beat 
well. Then fold in 1 stiffly beaten egg white. 
Pile lightly into a greased baking dish. Bake 
in a moderately hot even (375° F.) 30 min- 
utes or until puffy ancl brown. 

Potato Griddle Scones 



2 cups sifted flour. 
1 teaspoon salt. 

3 teaspoons baking 

powder. 



3 tablespoons fat. 

1 cup cold mashed potatoes. 

1 egg, beaten. 

Vi cup milk (about). 



Sift together flour, salt, and baking pow- 
der. Cut in fat with 2 knives or a pastry 
blender. Blend in the potatoes. Mix egg 
and milk ; add to first mixture. Mix slightly. 
Roll % inch thick and cut into squares. Bake 
slowly on a hot greased griddle or frying pan. 
Turn several times to cook through. Makes 
10 to 12. 

For a main dish, pour creamed left-over 
meat or fish or vegetables over the scones. 



10—38492-2 




Store Spuds 
Cool and Dark 

• Best potatoes for 
storing are the late crop. 
But early potatoes will 
keep several weeks if 
stored properly. 

• Sort before you 
store. Take out the de- 
cayed potatoes and set 
aside any bruised or cracked ones to use up 
first. 

• Keep potatoes cool but not cold — at tem- 
peratures between 40° and 60° F., but don't 
let them freeze. Stored below 40°, potatoes 
may acquire a sweetish taste because some of 
the starch turns to sugar. Sometimes you 
can restore the flavor of such potatoes by 
putting them in a warmer place for a week 
before using. 

• Keep potatoes dark . . . they like a 
blackout. Light gives them green spots that 
are harmful to eat. And although you can 
cut off the greenish part and eat the rest, it's 
wasteful. So cover your stored potatoes well 
with cloth or paper. 

• You can eat sprouted potatoes if you peel 
them. But never eat the sprouts. They 
have the same harmful substance contained 
in green spots. 



Issued by 

BUREAU OF HUMAN NUTRITION 

AND HOME ECONOMICS 
Agricultural Research Administration 
U. S. Department of Agriculture 
Washington, D. C. 
February 1944 

This pamphlet supersedes the unnumbered one 
entitled "Potatoes in Low-Cost Meals." 



For ill* by Superintendent of Documents, Washington 26, D. C, 
Price $1 per 100 copies 

O. S. •OVEHMEUT MIHTUtftOPNCE 16 — 38492-1 



