
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 



AV»I- 104 



TOMATO TIME 
IS AXY TIME 



Tomatoes, red, ripe, and fresh from rammer 
vines . . . tomatoes green for pies, pickles, and 
other good dishes after the first light frost of 
fall . . . tomatoes for winter and early spring 
"put up" plain or in juice, catsup, chili sauce, 
relishes, marmalades . . . The calendar round, 
tomatoes add their special note of bright color, 
tempting flavor, and vitamin value. 

Tomatoes Star for Vitamin C 

As a vitamin C rich food, tomatoes are among 
the best. One good-sized, vine-ripened tomato 
will give you about half your day's quota of 
vitamin C, as well as a generous amount of vita- 
min A. 

To get most good from tomatoes, eat them raw 
and fresh. But remember they hold a large 
share of their vitamins even when cooked or 
canned. 

Tomato Tips 

• Sort and use ripest tomatoes first. Keep 
the rest spread out where it's cool . . . the re- 
frigerator is a good place. 

• Peel and cut tomatoes quickly, just before 
you are ready to cook them or serve raw in salad. 
If you must prepare tomatoes ahead of time, be 
sure to keep them covered in a cold place until 
you use them. 

• To peel tomatoes : 

Stroke the skin with the back of a knife until 
loosened, or 

Dip in hot water 1 to 2 minutes, then quickly 
into cold water, or 

Run tip of fork into tomato and rotate over 
a flame until the skin wrinkles slightly. 

When thv Frost is on Tomatoes 

Green tomatoes, caught by the first light frosi, 
can be brought indoors. "Mature greens"— 

-2- 



lliose about to I urn color ami often with a white 

spot around t lie blossom end — will ripen at cool 
room temperatures (55° to 70° F.) in either 
sunlight, or shade. Spread them out in the cel- 
lar, or woodshed, or on the porch if not too 
cold. Or line them up on I he window sill if the 
room's not too warm. 

Immature green tomatoes won't ripen and are 
likely to rot if kept too long. It's l»est to pickle 
or cook them soon after picking. 

COOKEU TOMATOES HIPE 

On GREEN 

Stewed Tomatoes 

Remove stein ends and quarter medium- 
sized ripe or green tomatoes (pee! ripe toma- 
toes, if preferred). Add 1 tablespoon minced 
onion for flavor, if desired. Cover and cook 
until tender — 10 to 20 minutes for ripe toma- 
toes, 20 to 35 for green. Season with 1 tea- 
spoon salt; a little pepper; sugar, if desired — 
i/ 2 teaspoon for ripe tomatoes, 1 tablespoon for 
green; and 1 tablespoon fat. For variety, add 
'/I' cll P scif t bread crumbs before serving or top 
with toasted bread cubes. Sis servings. 

Season canned tomatoes in the same way us 
fresh ripe, and heat (if onion is added cook 
until onion is tender). 

With onions or celery. Cook together half 
us much sliced onion or chopped celery as ripe 
tomatoes. Season as above. Cook covered un- 
til onion or celery is tender — about 20 minutes. 
This is an excellent way to use the outer stalks 
of celery thai are less desirable for eating raw. 

Fried Tomatoes 

Slice 6 medium-sized ripe or green tomatoes 
about y% inch thick. Dip in mixture of ^4 CU P 
fine, dry bread crumbs or flour, y., tea-spoon sail, 
and a little pepper. Cook in a small amount 
of fat until brown on both sides. If desired, 
dip tomatoes in beaten egg, then in flour or 
bread crumbs before cooking. Six servings. 

-3- 



Broiled ToiiiuIo<*n 



Wash 6 medium-sized tomatoes, ripe or 
green, and remove slem ends. Cut tomatoes 
in two, and place cut side up in shallow pan 
or on broiling pan. Brush with melted fat 
and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place un- 
der direct heat with top of tomatoes about 3 
inches below tip of flame or broiler unit. Broil 
until tender — 10 to 15 minutes for ripe toma- 
toes, 15 to 25 for green. If desired, sprinkle 
with fine bread crumbs or grated cheese for 
the last few minutes of broiling. Six servings. 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

V/i cups fresh or canned Sugar, if desired— '/j tea- 
( No. 2</j can) tomatoes spoon for ripe or canned 

'4 cup minced onion tomatoes, 1 tablespoon 

2 tablespoons minced for green 
green pepper, if desired 2 cups soft bread crumba 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons fat 

Pepper 

Combine tomatoes (ripe or green), onion, 
green pepper, salt, pepper, and sugar if used. 
Place in a baking dish alternate layers of to- 
mato mixture and bread crumbs, ending with 
bread crumbs. (For a thinner mixture, omit 1 
cup of the crumbs.) Dot with fat. Bake in a 
moderately hot oven (375° F.) 20 io 30 minutes 
for ripe tomatoes, 30 to 45 for green. 

If desired, sprinkle y 2 cup grated cheese over 
the top for the last 10 to 15 minutes of baking. 
Six servings. 

For variety, combine ripe tomatoes with 
other vegetables. Reduce tomatoes in above 
recipe to 2y s cups and add . . . 2y 2 cups 
cooked whole-kernel corn; or 3 cups shredded 
cabbage; or L medium-sized eggplant, pared 
and cut in %-inch pieces; or 4 cups sliced 
erookneck squash; or 4 medium-sized onions, 
sliced or quartered, in place of the minced 
onion. Combine as for scalloped tomatoes. 
Cover and bake until vegetables are tender . , . 
with corn, 20 to 30 minutes; with onions, about 
1 hour; with cabbage, eggplant, or squash, the 
scallop will need to bake 45 to 50 minutes. 



Remove the lid for the last 15 to 20 minutes 
to brown crumbs. 



linked Tomatoes 

Wash mid remove stem ends of 6 medium- 
sized tomatoes, ripe or green. Place in a bak- 
ing dish, brush with melted fat, and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Add just enough hot 
water to cover bottom of dish. Bake in a mod- 
erately hot oven (375° F.) unt il tender — about 
30 minutes for ripe tomatoes, about 45 for 
green. If desired, sprinkle with bread crumbs 
before baking. 

On the half shell. Cut tomatoes in two, 
place cut side up in a baking dish, brush with 
melted fat, and season with salt and pepper. 
Bake in a moderately hot oven (375° F.) until 
tender — about 30 minutes. 

Stuffed. Scoop out center of ripe tomatoes, 
leaving a shell about y± inch thick. Chop pulp 
and drain off juice (use juice in cocktails, soups, 
sauces). Mix pulp with an equal amount of 
soft bread crumbs. Add 2 tablespoons minced 
onion cooked in 1 tablespoon fat until lightly 
browned. Season with salt and pepper. Stuff 
tomatoes, and place in a greased baking dish; 
add just enough hot water to cover bottom of 
dish. Bake in a moderately hot oven (375° F.) 
until tender — 25 to 30 minutes. 



TOMATOES IV THE MAi\ DISH 
l urry of Meat with Green Tomatoes 



Cook the onion in the fat. Add green toma- 
toes, cover, and cook until tender. Add meat 
and heat thoroughly. If the mixture is too 
thick, thin it slightly with meat broth, gravy, 
or water. Season to taste with curry powder 
and salt. Serve with flaky boiled rice or 
noodles. Six servings. 



1 onion, sliced 
3 tablespoons meat drip- 
pings or other fat 
1 quart sliced green toma- 



3 cups chopped, cooked 

1 to 2 teaspoons curry 

powder 
Salt 



■5- 



Green Tomsito Meat Sicn 



1 pound chuck, cubed \'i onion, chopped 

t teaspoon -nil 3 1 , cups water 

Pepper 3 medium-sized green to- 

1 tablespoons flour ma toes 

2 tablespoons fat (beef 2 cups cubed potatoes 
Fat may be used) I'/i cups sliced carrots 

Boll meat in mixture of suit, popper, iind 2 
tablespoons of the flour. Brown in the fat. Add 
onion; cook until lightly browned. Pour in •! 
cups of the water, cover, and simmer about 1 
hour or until meat is almost tender. 

Wash, remove stem ends, and quarter the 
tomatoes; add with potatoes, carrots, and 1 cup 
water to the meat. Cover and cook until vege- 
tables and meat are tender. Add more water as 
needed. Blend remaining '2 tablespoons flour 
with the i/j cup water; add to stew, and cook 
until slightly thickened. Six servings. 



Spanish Liver 

1 pound sliced beef, lamb, 
or pork liver 

V/z tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons fat 

'A cup chopped onion 

'/i cup chopped green pep- 

'i garlic clove, chopped 



'/2 cup sliced mushrooms, 

if desired 
2'/i cups fresh or canned 

(No. 2 can) tomatoes 
V/i teaspoons salt 
Pepper 

2 cups cooked noodles or 
spaghetti 



1 cup soft bread crumbs 

Dip liver slices in flour and cube at once. 
Brown liver in the fat; ndd onion, green pep- 
per, garlic clove, mushrooms, tomatoes, salt, and 
pepper. Cover and simmer for 10 minutes. 
Add cooked noodles or spaghetti and cook 10 
minutes longer. 

Or place noodles or spaghetti and liver mix- 
ture in alternate layers in a greased baking 
dish. Top with bread crumbs. Bake in a mod- 
erately hot oven (375° F.) 15 to 20 minutes or 
until mixture is heated through and crumbs are 
browned. Six servings. 



Beef, Tomato, aiad Cabbage Scallop 



1 pound ground beef or 
other lean meat 

2 tablespoons fat 

cup chopped onion 
1 cup chopped celery 
T' ; cups fresh or canned 
(No. 2 can) tomatoes 



2 teaspoons salt 

4 cups chopped or coarsely 

shredded cabbage 
I cup soft bread crumbs 



Brown the meat in fat. Add onion and cel- 
ery; cook 5 minutes. Add tomatoes, salt, and 
pepper : bring to boiling. Place attentat e 
layers of cabbage and meat mixture in a baking 
dish. Top with bread crumbs. Bake in a mod- 
erately hot oven (375°F.) 40 to 45 minutes. Six 
servings. 



Fish-Tomato Stew 

Cook 3 cups cubed potatoes in 3 tablespoons 
fat until lightly browned. Add \'- 2 COp chopped 
onion, i/ ( cup chopped green pepper, 3*4 cups 
fresh or canned (No. 2 can) tomatoes. Cover 
and cook until potatoes are tender. Add 1 
pound cooked fish, cut in about 2-inch pieces. 
Season with 1 te«spoon salt, and pepper. Cook 
about 5 minutes longer. Six servings. 



Chicken Creole 

4- to 5-pound chicken Vi cup chopped onion 

L 4 cup flour .M cup water 

I teaspoon salt >/ t cup chopped green pep- 

Pepper per 
!4 teaspoon paprika 2'/ 2 cups fresh or canned 

l U cup fat (chicken fat (No. 2 can) tomatoes 
may be used) 

Cut chicken into serving pieces. Roll in mix- 
ture of the flour, salt, pepper, and paprika. 
Brown in melted fat. Add onion; cook 2 to 3 
minutes. Add the water, cover, and simmer 
about 1 hour or until almost tender, adding 
more water if necessary. Stir occasionally to 
keep from sticking. Add green pepper and 
tomatoes. Simmer about 30 minutes longer. 
Serve on seasoned hot noodles or rice. Six 
servings. 



Add Tiiinal»<>s lo M<?a1 Stand-bys 



• Add I dtp frfiftb or canned tomatoes to your 
favorite recipe for a V/z pound meat loaf thai 
culls for a Trail t 1 cup of soft dread crumbs as 
i binder. 

• For extra flavor and moistness in ground 
meat patties, add % C,I P fresh °' - canned to- 
matoes to 1 pound ground beef. Add y 2 cup 
uncooked, quick-cooking oats as the binder. 
Season. This combination has a "different" 
flavor and helps stretch the 1 pound of meat to 
serve 6. 

• Pour 2y 2 cups fresh or canned (No. 2 can) 
tomatoes over a pot roast the hist hour of cook- 
ing. It makes a delicious gravy, especially if 
a clove of garlic and a little thyme are cooked 
with the meat. 

• Tomatoes are a "must" for Spanish steak. 
Pour 2% cups fresh or canned (No. 2 can) to- 
matoes over the browned meat and add chopped 
onion and green pepper. Season with salt and 
pepper. Cook until tender. 



LUNCHEON . . . SVfPEH fH -Hl S 
Toinafo Itahliil 

'A cap finely chopped 2 tablespoons flour 

celery 2'/j cups fresh ur canned 

' a cup chopped graap pep- (No. 2 can) lumiitoes 

per 1 cup grated cheese 

■i cup chopped onion I teaspoon salt 

tablespoons fat 2 eggs, beaten 

Cook together celery. green pepper, and onion 
in the fat, 8 to It) minutes, stirring frequently. 
Blend in the flour. Add tomatoes, cheese, and 
salt. Cook over low heal ; stir constantly until 
mixture thickens and cheese melts. Gradually 
add some of the tomato mixture to beaten eggs; 
mix well, then pour all back into the tomato 
mixture. Continue to cook over low heat; stir 
constantly until thickened and creamy (2 to 3 
minutes). 

If desired, add a few dashes of tabasco sauce. 
Serve on toast or crackers. Six servings. 



Savory Kit r Willi Tomatoes 

Cook 14 pound diced bacon until crisp, re- 
move from fat. and drain. Combine 2 table- 
spoons «f the bacon drippings with Zy> cups 
fresh or canned (No. ifiA can) tomatoes, 14 cop 
each of chopped green pepper and onion. 
Bring to boiling, add about 3 cups cooked rice, 
cook 10 to 20 minutes. Or add 1 cup uncooked 
rice and 2 cups water, and cook gently 40 to 45 
minutes or until rice is tender. Add more water 
if mixture becomes dry. Season with salt and 
pepper. Add bacon. Six servings. 



i'hili Kidney Beans 
With Tomatoes 

2 cups dried kidney brans V 2 cups fresh or canned 
! large onion, sliced (No. 2 1 /: can) tomatoes 

I large clove garlic, sliced 2 teaspoons salt 
I green pepper, minced 2 teaspoons chili powder 
'4 cup bacon drippings 

Soak beans overnight in cold water or about 
5 hours in lukewarm water to cover. Add 
onion, garlic, green pepper, bacon drippings, to- 
matoes, and salt; and simmer for 2 hours in 
the soaking water. Add more water if needed 
during cooking. Add t he chili powder, stirring 
as little as possible to avoid nfkshing the beans. 
Place in a baking dish or bean pot, cover, and 
bake in a moderate oven (350° F.) for about 2 
hours. Uncover during last part of the cook- 
ing if brown beans are desired. Six servings. 

If preferred, owe lima or navy beans in place 
of the kidney beans. 



Lima nean-Tomato Casserole 

Combine !» to G cups cooked lima beans with 2 
cups thin white sauce and 1 cup finely grated 
cheese. Pour into baking dish and place quar- 
tered tomatoes cut side down on bean mixture, 
liake in moderate oven (350° F.) 20 to 30 min- 
utes or until tomatoes are tender. Six servings. 



Bfl277<>*- ** 3 "9- 



TOMATOES IX SALADS 



Stuffed Tomato Salad 

6 medium -si zed chilled to- 2 h a r d-c ooked eggs, 

ma toes chopped 
'/j cup chopped celery 2 tablespoons mayonnaise 

cup chopped cucumber or cooked salad dressing 
1 tablespoon minced onion 1 teaspoon salt 
1 tablespoon chopped Pepper 

green pepper 

Wash tomatoes and remove stem ends. Scoop 
out center, leaving B shell about 14 inch thick. 
Turn upside down on plate to drain. (Use juice 
in soups or sauces.) Dice tomato pulp and com- 
bine with other ingredients. Stuff tomatoes. 
Serve on lettuce or other salad greens. 

For a meat stuffing. Combine 1 cup diced, 
cooked meat or poultry; 1 cup diced, cooked 
potatoes; 1 tablespoon chopped parsley; 1 table- 
spoon minced onion; 2 tablespoons green pep- 
per; 1 teaspoon salt; a little pepper; and 2 
tablespoons mayonnaise or cooked salad dress- 
ing. (Use scooped-out tomato pulp in stewed 
tomatoes, soups, snuces — don't waste it.) 

Jellied Tomato Salad 

1 tablespoon unflavored (,j teaspoon salt 

gelatin Pepper 

\/ t cup cold water 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

2'/i cups fresh or canned Vi cup finely chopped cu- 

(No. 2 can) tomatoes cumber 

I tablespoon minced onion ! j cup finely chopped 
V% small bay leaf celery 

I I teaspoon sugar 

Soften gelatin in the water. Cook tomatoes, 
onion, and bay leaf— about 20 minutes for fresh 
tomatoes, 10 for canned. Press through a sieve 
and measure 1% cups (if not enough, add boil- 
ing water). Add hot, sieved tomatoes to gela- 
tin and stir until gelatin is dissolved. Season 
with sugar, salt, pepper, and lemon juice. 
Chill. When gelatin mixture begins to stiffen, 
add cucumber and celery. Mix well. Pour 
into a mold or pan rinsed in cold water. Chill 
until firm. Serve with salad dressing on lettuce 
or other salad greens. Sis servings. 

-10- 



Other Salad Suggestions 

• Combine diced tomatoes, cooked kidney 
beam, chopped celery, chopped pickle or pickle 
relish; season with minced onion, salt, and 
pepper. Moisten wit h salad dressing. 

• Arrange, alternate slices of tomato and cu- 
cumber; or tomato, avocado, and grapefruit sec- 
tions on lettuce or other salad greens. Serve 
with salad dressing. 

• Combine diced tomatoes, diced, cooked po- 
tatoes, chopped onion, and French dressing. 

• On a bed of slaw place a thick slice of to- 
mato, top with several pieces of cooked aspara- 
gus. Serve with salad dressing. 

• Combine diced tomatoes, sliced cucumber, 
and radishes with thick sour cream seasoned 
with grated onion, salt, and pepper. Or add 
sour cream to mayonnaise or salad dressing. 

• Some favorate salad combinations are . . . 
sliced tomatoes and cucumber with cottage 
cheese ; diced tomato, celery, radishes, cucumber, 
scallions or green onions, and lettuce; chopped 
tomato and shredded cabbage: diced tomato, 
raw spinach, onion, and grated carrots. Serve 
with your favorite salad dossing. 



TOMATO JUICE . . . SOUPS . . . 
SAUCES 

Tomato Juice Cocktail 

3'/i cups fresh or canned 1 tablespoon chopped 

(No. 2\i can) tomatoes onion 
1 cup chopped celery ' ■ teaspoon salt 

■i cup chopped green pep- I teaspoonWorcestershire 

Vi bay leaf '/j teaspoon horseradish, 

if desired 

Cook together the tomatoes, celery, green 
pepper, bay leaf, and onion — about 20 minutes 
for fresh tomatoes, 10 for canned. Press 
through a sieve. Add salt, Worcestershire 
sauce, and horseradish to sieved tomatoes. Chill. 
Mix well before serving. Makes 3 cups. 



-11- 



Clear Tomalo Soup 



I 1 ■ quarts fresh »r canned 1 tablespouu flour 



1 tahlespoon fat. melted 

Cook together I lie tomatoes, bay leaf, onion, 
and cloves — about 20 minutes for fresh toma- 
toes, 10 for canned. Press through a sieve. 
Blend the fat, BOUT, and sugar (if used) ; grad- 
ually add the cooled, sieved tomatoes. Cook 
uver low heat, stirring constantly for about •> 
minutes. Season with salt and peeper. If 
desired, sprinkle with finely chopped parsley 
and serve with toasted bread cubes. Six 
servings. 

('ream of Tomato Soup 

V i cups fresh or canned \'i teaspoon sugar, if de- 

(No. 2</z can) tomatoes. sired 
'4 cup chopped onion 3 cups milk 

2 tablespoons fat ] teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons flour 

Cook together the tomatoes and onion — aboiu 
20 minutes for fresh tomatoes, 10 for canned. 
Press through a sieve. Melt the fat; blend in 
flour and sugar (if used). Gradually add 
cooled, sieved tomatoes. Cook over low heat, 
stirring constantly, until thickened. Gradually 
add tomato mixture to milk, stirring constantly. 
Heat slowly to serving temperature. Add salt. 
Serve at once. Six servings. 

Quick cream of tomato soup. Combine 2 
cups cooked or canned tomatoes with 3 cups 
milk. Heat slowly to serving temperature. 
Add 1 teaspoon salt, a little pepper, and I table- 
spoon fat. 

Spanish Sauce 

Cook 2 tablespoons chopped onion in 2 table- 
spoons fat until lightly browned. Blend in 1 
tablespoon flour. Add 2y 2 cups fresh or canned 
(No. 2 can) tomatoes, y 2 cup each of chopped 
celery and green pepper. 1 tablespoon chopped 



> 2 hay leaf 
1 i cup chopped 
1 cloves 



1 teaspoon sunar, if de- 

1 teaspoon salt 
Pepper 



-12- 



parsley, 1 teaspoon salt, and a little pepper. 
Cook 15 to 20 minutes, stirring frequently. 
Serve over meat loaf, oooked spaghetti, fried 
or baked fish, cooked cabbage, or omelet. 



Tomato Sn n<-»' 

2" j cups fresh or cant 
<No. 2 can) tumatue 

'/, cup rhopped union 

>, :..]:■.. sugar, if i 
sired 

'i hay Ir-nf 



Pepper 



Cook together the tomatoes, onion, sugar (if 
used), bay leaf, and cloves — about 20 minutes 
for fresh tomatoes, 10 for canned. Press 
through a sieve and measure. For each cup of 
sieved tomatoes, blend 1 tablespoon flour and 1 
tablespoon melted fat; gradually add the 
cooled, sieved tomatoes. Cook over low heat, 
stirring constantly, about 5 minutes or until 
thickened. Season with sail and pepper. Serve 
over meat or vegetable loaf, croquettes, fish, 
cooked spaghetti, souffle, or omelet. 

For variety, brown lightly in the fat 1 cup 
sliced mushrooms before blending fat with the 
flour. Or for a main dish, add cooked meat balls 
to the sauce and serve over cooked spaghetti. 

Toiiiato-Mes( Sauce 

V/i cups fresh or canned 2 tablespoons fat 

(No. 2 can) tomatoes 2 tablespoons Hour 

Vl garlic clove ] teaspoon sugar, if de- 
1 bay leaf sired 

y 4 pound ground beef 1 teaspoon salt 

!4 cup chopped onion I'epper 
Va cup minced green pep- 

Cook together the tomatoes, garlic, and bay 
leaf — about 20 minutes for fresh tomatoes, 10 
for canned. Press through a sieve. Brown the 
beef, onion, and green pepper in the fat. Blend 
in the flour. Add cooled, sieved tomatoes, sugar 
(if used), salt, and pepper. Cook over low heal , 
stirring constantly, until thickened. Serve hot 
on cooked spaghetti, noodles, or rice. 



-13- 



MAltMALAMMS . . . RELISHES 



Use right jars. Marmalades, preserves, and 
tomato- apple butter may be packed in any 
sound, clean, sterile jar and sealed with paraffin. 
Or if preferred, seal airtight in any of the can- 
ning jars that have tops with separate rubber 
ring, i. e., the lightning-type jar— with glass lid 
and rubber ring held in place by wire bail . . . 
jar with three-piece top — glass lid and top sen! 
rubber held in place by metal screw band . . . 
or jar with porcelain-lined zinc-top. Don't use 
metal lids with self-sealing compounds. 

Pack green tomato mincemeat, cooked relish, 
catsup, or chili sauce in jars that seal airtight. 
Covered with paraffin, they are likely to mold. 
Use only jars with glass lids — the lightning- 
type jar or jar with three-piece top. Don't use 
zinc lids or metal lids with self-scaling com- 
pounds — sharp acid foods will eat into metal 
and corrode it. 

Equipment clean. Scrub in hot, sudsy 
water all equipment, including jars, glass lids, 
metal screw bands, rubber rings. 

Scrub new rubber rings with a brush; boil 10 
minutes in 1 quart water and 1 tablespoon bak- 
ing soda for each dozen rings. Rinse well. 
Use fresh soda water for each lot. This may 
help keep rings from flavoring food. 

Sterilize jars. Before filling jars with 
food, place clean jars, lids, and caps in warm 
water and boil 15 to 20 minutes to sterilize. 
Keep hot until ready fur use. 

Itipe Tomato Marmalade 

3 quarts (about IS to 20 2 lemons 
medium-sized) sliced, 2 cups water 
peeled tomatoes 4 sticks cinnamon (about 

6 cups sugar 2- to 3-inch pieces) 

1 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons whole cloves 

2 oranges 

Combine tomatoes, sugar, and salt. Peel 
oranges and lemons. Slice peel very thin, boil 
in the water 5 minutes, and drain. Slice orange 



-14- 



(ind lemon pulp and remove seeds. Add with 
rind to tomato mixture. Put spices loosely in 
.1 thin, white cloth; lie top tightly; and add 
to tomato mixture. Heat slowly to boiling; 
then cook rapidly, st irring constantly, for 45 to 
60 minutes or until thickened. Remove spice 
bag. Pour marmalade into hot, sterile jars (p. 
14). Seal. Store in a cool, dry, dark place. 
Makes about 6 pints. 

Green Tninalo Marmalade 

3 quarts (18 to 20 medium- 1 teaspoon salt 

sized) sliced green to- 6 lemons 

matoes 1 cup water 

6 cups sugar 

Combine tomatoes, sugar, and salt. Peel 
lemons. Slice peel very thin, boil in the 1 cup 
water 5 minutes, and drain. Slice lemon pulp 
and remove seeds. Add with rind to tomato 
mixture. Heat slowly to boiling; then cook 
rapidly, stirring constantly, for about 45 to 60 
minutes or until thickened. Pour into hot, ster- 
ile jars (p. 14). Seal. Store in a cool, dry, 
dark place. Makes about C pints. 

Tomato-Apple Ituller 

2 quarts (about 12 to 14 Vi cup lemon juice 
medium-sized) sliced I cups sugar 
tomatoes 'A teaspoon ground cloves 

V/t quarts (about 6 me- !4 teaspoon ground all- 
dium- sized) sliced ap- spice 
pies */z teaspoon ground cin- 

1 cup water nomon 

Cook tomatoes 20 to 30 minutes. Press 
through a sieve and measure out 4 cups. Cook 
apples in water until very tender. Press 
through a sieve and measure out 2 cups. Com- 
bine sieved tomatoes and apples, lemon juice, 
sugar, and spices. Cook mixture rapidly about 
25 minutes, or until thickened and clear. Stir 
frequently to prevent sticking. Pour into hot, 
sterile jars (p. 14). Seal. Store in a cool, dry, 
dark place. Makes about 3 pints. 



-15- 



Yellow Tomato I'rcwrvcs 

Wasli firm, small, yellow tomatoes. Remove 
skins if desired. To each pound of tomatoes 
allow % CU I' water, % pound sugar, 14 lemon 
thinly sliced, and 1 piece of gingerroot. Boil 
the lemon for 5 minutes in part of the water. 
Boil the remainder of the water with the sugar 
for -i minutes to make a sirup. Add tomatoes, 
gingerroot, lemon, and the liquid in which lemon 
was cooked. Boil until tomatoes are clear and 
the sirup somewhat thick. Remove scum, then 
pour preserves into hot, sterile jars (p. 14). 
Seal. Store in a cool, dry, dark place. 



Uncooked Itipe Tomato Kclisli 

2 quarts (about 12 to 11 1 tablespoon mustard 



medium-sized) chopped, 

peeled tomatoes 
I cup chopped celery 
J .i tup chopped onion 
Yi cup chopped green pep- 



'/t teaspoon ground nut- 
meg 

Va teaspoon ground cin- 

Vt teaspoon ground cloves 
1 cup vinegar 



Combine all ingredients and stir until well 
blended. Pout- into clean jars and cover. Kept 
in refrigerator or other place as cold, relish will 
keep from 2 to 3 weeks. Makes about 3 pints. 



Uncooked Green Tomato 
Cliow rhow 

1 quart (6 to 7 medium- Vi cup finely chopped 

sized) finely chopped green pepper 

green tomatoes '/t cup salt 

3 cups finely chopped 1 tablespoon dry mustard 

cabbage Ij cup sugar 

'z cup finely chopped 1 tablespoon celery seed 

onion 2 tablespoons horseradish 

1 cup vinegar 

Sprinkle layers of tomatoes, cabbage, onion, 
and green pepper with salt ; let stand overnight. 
In the morning squeeze vegetables dry. Add 
other ingredients. Pour into clean jars and 
cover. Kept in refrigerator or other place as 



-16- 



cold, relish will keep from 2 to 3 weeks. Makes 
about 1 quart. 



Green Tomato Relish 

6 quarts (about 36 to 40 V/ z cups chopped red 
medium -sized) chopped sweet pepper 
green tomatoes 3 cups sugar 

''4 cup salt l'i quarts vinegar 

H'j quarts chopped onion 2 tablespoons whole 
3 cups chopped green pep- mixed pickle spices 
per 

Mix tomatoes and salt thoroughly. Ia'I stand 
overnight ; drain. Combine with chopped 
onions, green and red peppers, sugar, and vine- 
gar. Put spices loosely in a thin, white cloth; 
tie top tightly, and add to tomato mixture. 
Bring mixture to boil; boil gently with spices 
for l 1 /} hours or until thickened, stirring fre- 
quently, Remove spice bag. Four relish into 
hot, sterile jars (p. 14), fill jars to top. and seal. 
Store in a cool, dry, dark place. Makes about 
6 pints. 



Cmtmup 

2'/i quarts (15 to 17 me- 1 large garlic clove, 
dium-sized) sliced to- chopped 

mat*es 1 cup vinegar 

V A cup chopped onion 1 j cup sugar 

3-inch piece stick cinna- i\i teaspoons salt 

man 1 teaspoon paprika 

1 teaspoon whole cloves Dash cayenne pepper 

Simmer together tomatoes and onion for 20 
to 30 minutes; press through a sieve. Put the 
cinnamon, cloves, and garlic loosely in a clean, 
thin, white cloth; tie top tightly ; add to vinegar 
and simmer 30 minutes. Remove spice bag. 
Boil tomato mixture rapidly until you have 
but one-half the original amount. Stir fre- 
quently to prevent sticking. Add spiced vine- 
gar, sugar, salt, paprika, and cuyenne pepper 
to tomato mixture. Boil rapidly, stirring con- 
stantly, about 10 minutes or until slightly thick- 
ened. Pour into hot, sterile jars (p. 14), fill 
jars to top, and seal. Makes about 2 pints. 



-17- 



Chili Sauce 



1 quarts (24 to 2H me- I teaspoon whole cloves 
diutn-sized) peeled and 1 teaspoon ground Ringer 
chopped tomatoes 1 teaspoon ground nut - 

2 cups chopped, sweet red meg 

pepper 2 three-inch pieces stick 

2 cups chopped onion cinnamon 

1 hot pepper, chopped 1 cup firmly packed brown 

2 tablespoons celery seed sugar 

1 tablespoon mustard 3 cups vinegar 

seed 2 tablespoon* salt 

I bay leaf 

Combine the tomatoes, sweet pepper, onion, 
and hot pepper. Put the celery seed, mustard 
seed, bay leaf, cloves, ginger, nutmeg, and cin- 
namon loosely in a thin, white cloth ; tie top 
tightly; add to tomato mixture and boil until 
you have but one-half the original amount. 
Stir frequently to prevent slicking. Add sugar, 
vinegar, and salt. Boil rapidly, stirring con- 
stantly, about 5 minutes. Remove spices. Pack 
chili sauce into hot. sterile jars (p. 14) ; fill jars 
to top ami seal. Makes about 3 quurts. 

Toinalo Min4-Pitii>.i( 

■i quarts (about 24 to 28 I tablespoon ground cin- 
mcdium -sized) finely namon 

chopped green toma- 2 tea-spoons salt 

toes Va teaspoon ground all- 

Z quarts (about 8 to 10 spice 

medium -sized) pared, \\ teaspoon ground cloves 

finely chopped tart ap- 2 1 ,'/ cups iinnly packed 
pies brown sugar 

I pound raisins 214 cups granulated sugar 

I tablespoons minced cil- l /, cup vinegar 

ron, lemon, or orange 1 : to Vi cup lemon juice 

peel 2 cups water 

Combine all ingredients and cook mixture 
slowly until lender and slightly thickened. Stir 
frequently to prevent sticking. Pour into hot. 
sterile jars (p. 14), fill jars to top, and seal. 
Store in a cool, dry, dark place. Makes about 

3 quarts. 

If desired, increase brown sugar to 5 cups 
and omit granulated sugar. And (lie vinegar 
may be increased to 1 cup, omitting the lemon 
juice. 



EOH DESSERT . 



UriMMi Tomato Miuveiiioal Cookies 



!4 cup fat 

i teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup sugar 

2 eggs 

2 cups sifted all-purpose 



1 teaspoon baking powder 
(4 teaspoon soda 

i'i teaspoon salt 

2 cups green tomato 

Vi cup chopped nut meats 



Blend together fal and vanilla. Gradually 
add sugar, creaming well after each addition. 
Add eggs one at a time, beating after each. Sift 
together flour, baking powder, soda, and salt. 
Add alternately with the mincemeat to the 
creamed mixture, beginning and ending with 
the dry ingredients. Add nut meats. Drop 
from b teaspoon on a greased baking sheet and 
bake in a moderately hot oven (375° F.) 15 to 

minutes. Makes about 4'/ 2 dozen cookies. 



Green Tomalo Minci*iin*at 
Fruit Cake 



% cup Tat 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 tablespoons grated 
orange rind 

1 cup sugar 

| ^ cup marmalade or jelly 

3 eggs 

2' 2 cups sifted all-purpose 



1 Vi teaspoons baking 

powder 
1 • teaspoon soda 
v i teaspoon salt 
3 cups green tomato 

mincemeat 
I cup chopped nut meats 



Blend together the fat, vanilla, and orange 
rind. Gradually add sugar and marmalade, 
creaming well after each addition. Add eggs 
one at a time, boating well after each. Sift to- 
gether the flour, baking powder, soda, and salt. 
Add alternately with the mincemeat to the 
creamed mixture, beginning and ending wilh 
dry ingredients. Add nut meats. Pour into a 
greased 7y 2 -inch tube pan or a loaf pan. Bake 
in a slow oven (325° F.) 1% hours. Cool y.> 
hour before removing from the pan. 

If desired, use 2 cups mincemeat and 1 cup 
raisins in place of the 3 cups mincemeat. 



Krcen Tomato Pie 



6 to S medium-nixed to- teaspoon cinnamon 

2 tahleypimns lemon juice 2 tablespoons cornstarch 
] ti'.-isponn grated lemon 1 talilespoun ulile fat 

or <.i. -ii". rind Pastry 
' i teaspoon salt 

Wash, remove stem ends, and slice the toma- 
toes. Combine with lemon juice, lemon or 
orange rind, salt, and cinnamon. Cook 15 min- 
utes, stirring frequently. Mix sugar and corn- 
starch; add to tomato mixture and cook until 
clear, stirring constantly. Add fat. Cool 
slightly, then pour into a 9-inch pie plate lined 
with pastry. Cover with pastry and seal edges. 
Bake in a hot oven (425° F.) 40 to 50 minutes. 



Other recipe folders available from the U. S. 
Department of Agriculture: 

Cheese in Your Meals. AWI — 16 
Fat in Wartime Meals. AWI-34 
Koot Vegetables in Wartime Meals. AWI- 

39 

Dried Beans and Peas in Wartime Meals. 
AWI-47 

Green Vegetables in Wartime Meals. 
AWI-54 

Cooking with Soya Flour and Grits. A WI- 
TS 

Potatoes in Popular Ways. AWI-85 
Egg Dishes for Any Meal. AWI — 89 
Pickle and Relish Recipes. AWI-103 



Issued by 

BUREAU OF HUMAN NUTRITION 
AND HOME ECONOMICS 
Agricultural Research Administration 
U. S. Department of Agriculture 
Washington, D. C. 
July 1944 



