Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



3 V<2 * 



WAR FOCD ADMINISTRATION 
Office of Distribution 
Fashington 25, D. C. 



July 19-44 



To increase consumption of North Atlantic-caught fresh and frozen --fish in the 
northeastern and midwestern areas, beginning immediately, xj^ Ofp T »< 



The Objective : 



FACT SHEET ON FRESH AND FROZEN FISH 




The Problem ; 

Increase of the fish catch at the Gloucester and Boston ports, combined with in- 
adequate facilities for the storage of these fish when they are frozen, has re- 
sulted in a marked curtailment in activities of the fishing fleets of these two 
ports. 

The situation is also due in part to the fact that in normal times about 75 per- 
cent of the catch is moved to nidwestern markets, but this year midwestern dis- 
tributors have bought their usual quantities of the fish and have left part of 
them in storage in New England because of the tight storage situation in the 
Middle Test. 

It would seem that the best solution to the problem is an immediate increase in 
consumption of the frozen fish now in storage at these Nov/ England ports, and also 
an increase in consumption of mackerel, so these fish can be moved to market 
direct from fishing ^roats and relieve any additional strain on cold-storage 
facilities. 

Background : 

Landings in the ports of Boston and Gloucester, Mass.. , for the first 5 months of 
1944 totaled 117,881,304. pounds, compared with 97,146,577 pounds for the same 
period in 1943. Cod, mackerel, and rosefish were the leading species caught. 

Most in need of increased consumer consumption are frozen fillets of mackerel, 
rosefish, frequently sold commercially as redfish or sea or ocean perch, and 
whiting. Fresh mackerel (round) should be featured as in plentiful supply. 
Mackerel may be marketed fr^sh, but rosefish and whiting must be frozen before 
they are marketed. The great increase in the rosefish landings, for which refrig- 
eration must be found, may account in some- part for the tight storage situation. 
Rosefish landings in Boston and Gloucester for the first 5 months of 194-3 amounted 
to 17,096,974 pounds, compared with 23,798,329 pounds for the same period this 
year. 

Not only have the landings increased but records show that 1944 cold-storage 
holdings up to June 1, of fresh and frozen fish for the nation, were up to 
69,291,802 pounds, double the holdings for 1943 and nearly half again as large as 
the 5-yoar average holdings of 49,144,000 pounds. 

In New England the holdings on June 1, 1944, were 18,954,011 pounds, compared -with 
5,722,431 pounds for the same period in 1943. 



m 5 



A review of the cold-storage situation in the Boston-Gloucester area reveals that 
one of the large xmrehouses, with a capacity of 5 rrdllion pounds, has 4,883,000 
pounds of fish already in storage, and this v.hcn the fishing season is at its 
height. Nov/ fish can come in for freezing and storage only as frozen fish is 
moved out. Similar conditions exist throughout the area. 

Possibilities for salting more ma ckc rel have been discussed and deemed inadvisable 
since sufficient labor is not available for the job. 

Observers report that the congested storage situation for fish is a result of 
several conditions: (l) heavy production, especially in Gloucester; (2) taking of 
certain meats off rationing; (3) heavy storage of perishable commodities in all 
areas. 

CONSUMERS' AIDS 

Reports from New England show that mackerel are being sold at low .prices and 
whiting at prices below ceiling, not only in New England but in other parts of the 
country. These low prices, plus the fact the fish is unrationcd and readily 
available, should make this commodity an attractive one to the housewife. 

Fish are a good source of animal protein. Their availability and low cost stake it 
possible for most housewives to obtain part of their needed animal proteins from 
this source. Fish are easily digested, and the flavors vary enough to please many 
tastes. 

Rosefish (sea perch) is classed among the versatile fish and can be broiled, baked, 
steamed, fried, or used in chowder. Liackerel is good broiled or baked, and ' * 
whiting is suitable for broiling, baking, steaming, frying, or in chowder. 

METHODS OF COOKING FISH 



FRYING 

Frying, either in shallow or in deep fat, has long been a popular method of cooking 
fish. Cut the fish into serving portions, salt on both sides, and let stand for 
about 10 minutes to absorb salt. Then dip the pieces in liquid - such as beaten 
egg, milk, or water - and cover with some dry cereal - cornmeal, for example, flour, 
cracker or bread crumbs. A recommended method is to dip the pieces of fish in 
water and roll in a mixture of §■ cup of sifted dry bread crumbs and \ cup of flour. 

For pan-frying have ready a heavy cast-metal frying pan that contains about one- 
fourth inch of fat, hot but not smoking. Place the fish in the pan, cover, and 
cook at moderate heat, turning it when brown. Serve on a hot platter garnished 
with slices or wedges of lemon and parsley. 

siis-aatiNG 

Fish, like moats, should be simmcre.d, never boiled. Lean fish are preferred for 
cooking in water or steam because the flesh, compared with that of fat fish, has 
less tendency, to fall apart. The fish can be protected further from breaking by 
using a wire basket or a perforated' pan, or by wrapping in cheesecloth. Simmered 
fish may be improved in flavor by"cb6king in any of the following liquids: 



Plain salted water - To each quart of water add 1^- tablespoons of salt. 

Acid water - To each quart of water add l| tablespoons of salt and 3 tablespoons 
of lemon juice or vinegar. 

Court bouillon - Cook 1/3 cup, each, of chopped carrots, onion, and celery with 
2 tablespoons of fat, for 5 minutes,* add 2 springs of parsley, 6 whole black 
peppers, 2 cloves, % bay leaf, 1 tablespoon salt, 2 tablespoons vinegar, and 
2 quarts of water; bring to the boiling point and cook for a few minutes, and 
strain. 

Fish or meat stock - T 0 each quart of liquid add lj tablespoons of salt. 
Milk or milk and water - To each quart of liquid add if- tablespoons of salt. 

"S imrioring" is an easy, quick and economical method of preparing fish for serving 
at home at more than one meal, as cooked fish not eaten immediately may be broken 
into flakes and used in fish dishes. 



BROILED FR^SH FISH 

Have the fish split dorm the back, Tripe clean, and remove any scales and the head 
and tail if desired. Lay the fish skin side down on a greased shallow pan. If 
the fish is oily, no fat need be addedj otherwise, add enough to season well. 
Place under the flame in a broiler at moderate heat and cook for 20 to 30 minutes. 
Slip the broiled fish carefully onto a hot platter, season with salt and pepper, 
pour on the drippings, garnish with" cress or parsley and sliced lemon, and serve 
at once. If the fish is very large and thick, heat for 15 to 20 minutes in a 
moderate oven before putting under the broiler flame. 



CUR3IED FISH 



pounds fresh cod, halibut, or 
other fish 

tablespoons butter or other fat 
tablespoon chopped green pepper 
small onion, chopped 
cup chopped celery 



3 tablespoons flour 

2 cups liquor from the simmered fish 

2 to 1 teaspoon curry powder 

3 drops tabasco sauce 
Salt to taste 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley 



Simmer the fish about 10 minutes in a small quantity of water, in a shallow pan, 
then drain. Meanwhile, melt the fat and cook the green pepper, onion, and celery 
a few minutes; add the flour and the cooled fish liquor, with water, if necessary, 
to bring the quantity up to 2 cups. Cook for 3 or 4 minutes, add the seasonings, 
and stir constantly. Remove the skin and bones from the cooked fish, arrange on a 
hot platter with a border of flaky rice, pour the sauce over the fish, and 
sprinkle the parsley on top. 



FISH tii:rales 



2 tablespoons butter or other fat 
2 tablespoons flour 

1 cup milk 

2 eggs 

2 cups flaked cooked or canned fish 



1 tablespoon lemon juice 
1 tablespoon chopped parsley 
1 teaspoon minced onion 
Salt to taste 



Prepare a s~uce of the fat, flour, and milk, add the beaten eggs, fish and 
seasonings, and salt as needed. Pour the mixture into greased custard cups and 



- 4 - 



bake in a pan of hot water in a moderate oven (350° F.) for 30 minutes. Turn the 
timbales onto a hot platter, garnish rath slices of lemon, and serve at once. 

PIAIIJ "SIU.SICD" FISH 

3 pounds fillets or steaks, or 4. pounds whole fish 
3 tablespoons salt in 2 quarts simmering water 

Place one layer of fish cut into suitable pieces for serving in a basket or per- 
forated pan. Lower the basket into the simmering, salted water. Cook about 20 
minutes or until tender ; remove and drain. S G rve hot rath a rich, bright-colored 
sauce. 

(Cooking methods and recipes furnished by the Bureau of Human Nutrition 
and Home Economics, USDA^ and the Fish and VJildlife Service's Conservation 
Bulletin No. 27, "Wartime Fish Cookery" (Department of the Interior) 



WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION 
Office of Distribution 
150 Broadway 
New York 7, Mew York 

August 1944 
FACT SHEET ON FRESH AND FROZEN FISH 



Eat Fish Now 

Increase of the fish catch at the Gloucester and Boston ports, combined with 
inadequate facilities for the storage of these fish when they are frozen, has 
resulted in a marked curtailment in activities of the fishing fleets of these 
bwo ports ■ 

llso, in normal times about 75 percent of the catch is moved to midwestern 
markets, but this year midwestern distributors have bought their usual quanti- 
fies of fish and have left part of them in storage in New England because of 
the tight storage situation in the Middle West* 

:he best solution to the problem seems to be an immediate increase in consump- 
tion of the frozen fish now in storage, and an increase in use of mackerel, 
o these fish can move to market direct from boats and relieve additional strain 
m cold-storages. As coastal states customarily use fresh fish mainly, the 
:ampaign in these areas may well be aimed to move all kinds of fish in good 
mpoly, while regions farther inland are urged to increase use of the frozen 
;""ish they are accustomed to buying, 

background : 



Landings in the ports of Boston and Gloucester, Mass., for the first 5 months 

of 1944 totaled 117,881,304 pounds, compared with 97,146,577 pounds for the 

same period in 1943, Ccd, mackerel, and rosefish were the leading species caught. 

lost in need of consumer consumption are frozen fillets of mackerel, rosefish, 
frequently sold as redfish or sea or ocean perch, and whiting. Fresh mackerel 
•[round) should be featured as in plentiful supply. Mackerel may be marketed 
""resh, but rosefish and Whiting must be frozen before they are marketed. The 
;reat increase in rosefish, for which refrigeration must be found, account in 
;art for the tight storage situation, Rosefish landings in Boston and Gloucester, 
'or the first 5 months of 1943 were 17,096,974 pounds, compared with 23,798,329 
rounds for the same period this year, 

Records show that 1944 cold-storage holdings up to June 1, of fresh and frozen 
'ish for the nation, were 69,291,302 oounds, double the holdings for 1943 and 
•.early half again as large as the 5-year average holdings of 49,144,000 pounds, 

!n New England the holdings on June 1, 1944, wore 18,954,011 pounds, .compared 
'ith 5,722,431 pounds for the same period in 1943, 

i review of the cold-storage situation in the Boston-Gloucester area reveals 

;hat one of the large warehouses, with a capacity of 5 million potmds, has 
,383,000 pounds of fish in storage, and this when the fishing season is at 
ts height. New fish can come in for freezing and storage only as frozen fish 

Is moved out. Similar conditions exist throughout the area. 

QGT *7 1944 



Salting no re mackerel has been deemed inadvisable due to lack of labor. 

Observers report that the congested storage situation for fish is a result 

of several conditions: (l) heavy production; (2) taking some meats off rationing; 

(3) heavy storage of perishable commodities in all areas, 

CONSUMERS ' AIDS 

Reports from Mew England show that mackerel are being sold at lor: prices and 
whiting at prices below ceiling, not only in New England but in other parts 
of the country. These low prices, plus the fact the fish is unrationed and 
readily available, should make this commodity an attractive one to the housewife. 

Fish are a good source of animal protein. Their availability and low cost make 
it possible for most families to obtain part of their needed animal proteins from 
this source. Fish are easily digested, and the flavors vary enough to please many 
taster • 

'"Josef ish (sea perch) and whiting can be broiled, baked, steamed, fried, or used 
in chowder. Mackerel is good broiled or baked. 

METH O DS OF CO OKING FISH 

FRYLJC- 

Frying, either in shallow or in deep fat, has long been a popular method of cooking 
fish. Cut the fish into serving portions, salt on both sides, and let stand for 
about 10 minutes to absorb salt. Then dip the pieces in liquid - such as beaten 
egg, milk, or v/ater - and cover with dry cereal such as cornmeal, flour, cracker, 
or bread crumbs. A recommended method is to dip the pieces of fish in water and 
roll in a mixture of -g- cup of sifted dry bread crumbs and q cup of flour. 

For pan-frying have ready a heavy cast-metal frying pan that contains about one- 
fourth inch of fat, hot but not smoking. Place the fish in the pan, cover, and 
cook at moderate heat, turning it when brown. Serve on a hot platter garnished 
v . r ith slices or wedges of lemon and parsley. 

STMl'IERIHG 

Fish, like meat, should be simmered, never boiled. Lean fish are preferred for 
cooking in v/ater or steam because the flesh, compared with that of fat fish, has 
less tendency to fall apart. The fish can be protected from breaking by using a 
.■/'ire basket or a perforated pan, or by wrapping in cheesecloth. Simmered fish 
may be improved in flavor by cooking in any of the following liquids : 

Plain salted water - To each quart of water add Ig- tablespoons of salt. 

Acid v/ater - To each quart of water add To- tablespoons of salt and 3 tablespoons 

of lemon juice or vinegar. 
Court bouillon - Cook 1/3 cup, each, of chopped carrots, onion, and celery with 2 
tablespoons of fat, for 5 minutes; add 2 sprigs of parsley, 6 whole black peppers, 
2 cloves, g bay leaf, 1 tablespoon salt, 2 tablespoons vinegar, and 2 quarts of 
water; bring to the boiling point and cook for a few minutes, and strain. 
Fish or meat stock - To each quart of liquid add Ig- table-spoons of salt. 
Milk or milk and water - To each quart of liquid add Ig tablespoons of salt. 



^ — 

- 3 - 



BROILED FRESH FISK 

Have the fish split down the back, wipe clean, and remove any scales and the head 
and tail if desired. Lay the fish skin side down on a greased shallow pan. If 
the fish is oily, no fat need be added; otherwise, add enough to season well. 
Place under the flame in a broiler at moderate hea."fc and cook for 20 to 30 minutes. 
Slip the broiled fish carefully onto a hot platter, season with salt and pepper, 
pour on the drippings, garnish with cress or parsley and sliced lemon, and serve 
at once. If the fish is large and thick, heat for 15 to 20 minutes in a moderate 
oven before putting under the broilor flame. 

CURRIED FISH 



2 pounds fresh cod, halibut, or 

other fish 
4 tablespoons butter or other fat 
1 tablespoon chopped green pepper 
1 small onion, chopped 
^ cup chopped celery 



3 tablespoons flour 

2 cups liquor from the simmered fish 
g to 1 teaspoon curry powder 

3 drops tabasco sauce 
Salt to taste 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley 



Simmer the fish about 10 minutes in a small quantity of water, in a shallow pan, 
then drain. Meanwhile, melt the fat and cook the green pepper, onion, and celery 
c few minutes; add the flour and the cooled fish liquor, with water, if necessary, 
to bring the quantity up to 2 cups. Cook for 5 or 4 minutes, add the seasonings, 
and stir constantly. Remove the skin and bones from the cooked fish, arrange on 
a hot platter with a border of flaky rice, pour the sauce over the fish, and* 
sprinkle the parsley on top. 

FISH T 1MB ALES 



2 tablespoons butter or other fat 
2 tablespoons flour 

1 cup milk 

2 eggs 

2 cups flaked cooked or canned fish 



1 tablespoon lemon juice 
1 tablespoon chopped parsley 
1 teaspoon minced onion 
Salt to taste 



Prepare a sauce of the fat, flour, and milk, add the beaten eggs, fish and 
seasonings, and salt as needed. Pour the mixture into greased custard cups and 
bake in a pan of hot water in a moderate oven (350°F.) for 30 minutes. Turn the 
timbales onto a hot platter, garnish With slices of lemon, and serve at once. 

PLAIN "SIMMERED" FISH 



3 pounds fillets or steaks, or 4 pounds whole fish 
3 tablespoons salt in 2 quarts simmering water 

Place one layer of fish cut into suitable pieces for serving in a basket of per- 
forated pan. Lower the basket into the simmering, salted water. Cook about 20 
minutes or until tender; remove and drain. Serve hot with a rich, bright-colored 
sauce. 



SUMMER FISH RECIPES 



The following; recipes suggest ways to servo cold cooked fish during hot weather. 
When cooking fish plan to have enough left over to serve cold in a lunch or 
dinner dish another day, 

( 1 ) Fish and Vegetable Salad 



2 cups cold cooked fish flakes 
1 cup minced celery 

3 red thinly sliced radishes 
1 cup diced crisp cucumber 



3 tablespoons spiced vinegar 

from sweet pickles 
Tj teaspoon salt 
Mayonnaise or cooked salad 

dressing to mix 



Cool all ingredients. Combine fish flakes and vinegar. Just before serving, 
combine the fish flakes, vegetables, seasonings, and mix with the dressing. Fill 
nests of lettuce leaves with the mixture and sprinkle with a dash of paprika or 
serve on a bed of mixed salad greens. For variety, diced or sliced hard cooked 
eggs, chopped green pepper or c Looped sweet pickles may be added or used instead 
of the vegetables, (four to six servings) 

To make a Stuffed Tomato Salad, fill whole ripe tomato cups with the fish mixture 
and serve on lettuce, shredded cabbage or other groens. 



(2) Jellied Fish Salad 



2 cups cold cooked fish flakes 

1 tablespoon gelatin 

3 cup cold water 

2 eggs 

3/4 teaspoon salt 



■g cup minced celery 

1 teaspoon minced onion 

cup vinegar 
z£ cup water 



Chop the fish finely. Soften the gelatin in the cold water. Beat the eggs, 
add the salt, celery, onion, vinegar, and v/ater °.nd cook over boiling water 
until thickened. Add the softened gelatin end stir until it has dissolved j 
then add the fish. Pour into dampened molds, let stv.iid in a cold place until 
firmly set, turn out on crisp lettuce, shredded cabbage or other salad greens 
and serve with mayonnaise or cooked salad dressing, (six servings) 



October 1944 




The Objective: 

Te increase the consumption of existing stocks of 
fresh and frozen fish in all parts of the United 
States, beglmaimg October 30 .end extending through 
November 18. 



The Problem: 



Latest figures on cold storage holdings of fish in the United States i 
were 33 percent above those of the similar period in 1943, with every 
major section of the country showing an increase. These large holdings 
are creating a storage problem. The Industry is faced with the respon- 
sibility of a shutdown of operations if existing stocks are not reduced, 
due to the limitation restriction of Cold Storage Order WFO 111. 

Increase* consumption of fish net only will relieve the storage problem 
and permit the industry to continue operations, but also should ease 
the « »m and for the somewhat limited supplies of meat now available 
for civilian*. 

Background: 

Americans are favored with about 160 species of edible fish available in 
fresh form. Thirteen of these make up 70 percent of the fresh and frozen 
fish reaching consumers. These are: Salmon, mackerel, haddock, cod, 
flounders, roseflsh, croakers, whiting, halibut, pollock, shrimp, crabs, 
and oysters. Many others, though in great demand, are caught In limited 
quantities. Some, though abundant, receive little or no recognition. 

For the present we favor those in good supply. From the sea, these 
Include: Mackerel, cod, whiting, haddock, roseflsh, croakers, flounders, 
scup (^ergies) , and hake. From the lakes and rlvera these include: 
Lake herring, lake trout, pike and carp. 

Mackerel, whiting, hake and carp are less popular throughout the country 
than the others of the "favored" group. The reasons for this are few and 
without real foundation in fact. Poor cooking methods in some areas of 
the country have led to dissatisfaction where mackerel is concerned. 
Whiting and hake, because of their perishability, require more careful 
attention at the producing end than has been the qustoro. Carp, un- 
fortunately, has been the butt of many jokes, few, if any of them based 
on facts. 

Increasing the consumption of fish, then, requires double effort: 
(1) To convince the producers and distributors of the importance of 
careful cleaning and handling; and (2) to assure the buying public that 
the best is being made available to them in quality and Y&lue. 



WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF DISTRIBUTION 
with the cooperation of -flSH 4 WILDLIFE SERVICE, DEPT. OF THE INTERIOR 



MOV 3 1944 



Nutritive Value of Fish: 

Fishery products provide a variety and quality of nutritive factors 
found in few foods. They are excellent sources of highly digestible 
proteins, Are rich in vitamins, and contain minerals both in quantity 
and variety. Some fish also contain considerable fat. Because of the 
medium in which fish live, tough strong muscles are not necessary and 
consequently the flesh is tender. 

About 20 percent of the edible portion of fish is protein, 1 percent to 
20 percent is fat, depending on the species, and about 1 percent is 
mineral matter. Protein is the most important of these elements; an 
ayerage serving of fish will supply sufficient animal protein to satisfy 
the daily requirement of the body. Fish protein is from 85 percent to 
90 percent digestible, and all the needed amino acids are included^ that 
are required for growth or maintenance of weight. 

Shellfish such as oysters, shrimp, and crabs, contain as much calcium, 
and more magnesium and phosphorus, than an equal weight of milk. These 
products are also rich sources of iron, copper, and iodine. Liver is 
the only meat which exceeds oysters in iron content. 

It is common knowledge that fish is our chief source of iodine among 
natural foods . In localities where water supplies may lack this mineral 
the eating of salt-water fish is about the only natural means of prevent- 
ing widespread endemic goiter. 

Preparation of Fish: 

Fish, as a rule, have a natural fresh flavor which is most appetizing. 

Yet it is sad to note that many housewives and restaurant chefs do not 
know how to cook sea products properly. An oily fish, such as mackerel, 
should never be fried. It is best when broiled or baked. Lean fish, 
such as whiting, cod, and hake, should never be broiled. These are best 
when boiled, fried, or baked in milk. 

METHODS OF COOKING FISH 

Frying: Frying, either in shallow or in deep fat, has long been a 
popular method of cooking fish. Cut the fish into serving portions, 
salt on both sides, and let stand for about 10 minutes to absorb salt. 

Then dip the pieces in liquid — such 
as beaten egg, milk, or water — and 
cover with some dry cereal — cornmeal, 
for example, flour, cracker, or bread 
crumbs. A recommended method is to 
dip the pieces of fish in water and 
roll in a mixture of 1/3 cup of 
sifted dry crumbs and i/2 cup of 
flour. For pan-frying have ready a 
heavy cast-metal frying pan that 
contains about l/4 inch of fat, hot 
but not smoking. Place the fish in 
the pan, cover, and cook at moderate 




heat, turning it when brown. Serve on a hot platter garnished with 
slices or wedges of lemon and parsley. 

Simmering: Fish, like meats, should be simmered, never boiled. Lean 
fish are preferred for cooking in water or steam because the flesh, 
compared with that of fat fish, has less tendency to fall apart. The 
fish can be protected further from breaking by using a wire basket or a 
perforated pan, or by wrapping in cheesecloth or parchment paper. 
Simmered fish may be improved in flavor by cooking in any of the follow- 
ing liquids: 

Plain salted water — To each quart of water add 1$ tablespoons of salt. 

Acid water — To each quart of water add l£ tablespoons of salt and 3 
tablespoons of lemon juice or vinegar. 

Court bouillon — Cook for 5 minutes, 1/3 cup, each, of chopped carrots, 
onion, and celery with 2 tablespoons of fat; add 2 sprigs of parsley, 
6 whole black peppers, 2 cloves, h bay leaf, 1 tablespoon fealt, 2 
tablespoons vinegar, and 2 quarts of water; bring to the boiling 
point and cook for a few minutes, and strain. 

Fish or meat stock — To each quart of liquid add l£ tablespoons of salt. 

1111 k or milk and water — To each quart of liquid add l& tablespoons 
of salt. 

•Simmering" is an easy, quick and economical method of preparing fish 
for serving at home at more than one meal, as cooked fish not eaten 
Immediately may be broken into flakes and used in fish dishes. 

BROILED FRE8H FISH 

Have the fish split down the back, wipe clean, and remove any scales 
and the head and tall if desired. Lay the fish skin side down on a 
greased shallow pan. If the fish is oily, no fat need be added; other- 
wise, add enough to season well. Place under the flame in a broiler at 
moderate heat and cook for 20 to 30 minutes. Slip the broiled fish 
carefully onto a hot platter, season with salt and pepper, pour on the 
drippings, garnish with cress or parsley and sliced lemon, and serve 
at once. If the fish is very large and thick, heat for 15 to 20 minutes 
In a moderate oven before putting under the broiler flame. 

CURRIED FISH 



2 pounds fresh cod, halibut, or 

other fish 
4 tablespoons butter or other fat 
1 tablespoon chopped green pepper 
1 small onion, chopped 
i cup chopped celery 



3 tablespoons flour 

2 cups liquor from the simmered fish 

4 to 1 teaspoon curry powder 

3 drops tabasco sauce 
Salt to taete 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley 



Simmer the fish about 10 minutes in a small quantity of water, in a 
shallow pan, then drain. Meanwhile, melt the fat and cook the green 
pepper, onion, and celery a few minutes; add the flour and the cooked 
fish liquor, with water, If necessary, to bring the quantity up to 2 



cups. Cook for 3 or 4 minutes, add the seasonings, and stir constantly. 
Remove the skin and bones from the cooked fish, arrange on a hot platter 
with a border of flaky rice, pour the sauce over the fish, and sprinkle 
the parsley on top. 



FISH T I MB ALES 

2 tablespoons butter or other fat 1 tablespoon lemon Juice 

2 tablespoons flour 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon minced onion 

2 eggs Salt to taste 
2 cups flaked cooked or canned fish 



Prepare a sauce of the fat, flour, and milk, add the beaten eggs, fish 
and seasonings, and salt as needed. Pour the mixture into greased 
custard cups and bake in a pan of hot water in a moderate oven (350° F.) 
for 30 minutes. Turn the timbales onto a hot platter, garnish with 
slices of lemon, and serve at once. 

PLAIN "8IMMERKD- FISH 

3 pounds fillets or steaks, or 4 pounds whole fish 
9 tablespoons salt In 2 quarts simmering water 



Place one layer of fish cut into suitable pieces for serving in a basket 
or perforated pan. Lower the basket into the simmering, salted water. 
Cook about 20 minutes or until tender; remove and drain. Serve hot with 
a rich, bright-colored sauce. 




Cooklmsj methods sad recipe* furnished by tke Bureau of lhsman Mtrltion 
and Homo Economics, USDA, and the Fish and Wildlife Service's Conserva- 
tion Ballet in Id. 27, "Wartime Fish Cookery* department of the Interior) 



lit 



UNITD STATES DSPAUTi 13HT OF AGHCULTOEIE 
Production end Marketing Administration 
Jashingtori 25, D. C, 



April 1946 



FACT SIE3T Or FR3SJI AND FROZTd F 



PISH 



"/ith the largest April stocks of frozen fish in history and prospects of a 
record-breaking 1946 catch, the United States is assured an abundance of fresh 
and frozen fishery products during the coring months. This excellent supply of 
high-protein food can be used to fill in the gaps * in the American diet left by 
the shipment of other products abroad for famine relief, 

Carry-over _of 4^000 Tons - 

Although stocks of frozen fish are nori&ally at a low level on April 1, we 
had 04 million pounds in storage in this country on that date this year. Stocks 
on April 1 last year './ere 40 million pounds. Today, the Army and Navy have little 
need for frozen fish, and facilities do not permit distribution of frozen products 
in famine areas abroad. Mast of the supply on hand, therefore, ./ill find a wel- 
come place on civilian dinner tables in the United States. 

Fishing Prospects for 1946 - 

From i .ost ang les, the fishing season now opening looks like one of the best 
in history. I 'any men are entering the fishing industry, j'.ore and better boats 
are available today than before the war. .aid, in some areas, surplus equipment 
from the armed forces is available. 

Kinds of Fish in G ood S uppl y - 

On markets in various parts of the country, housewives will find many 
varieties of fresh and frozen fish during April and Hay, The local varieties 
include : 

In Mew England: Flounder, haddock, cod, mackerel, whitin; , sea scallops, 
and rosefish. 

In the Kiddle Atlantic States: Flounder, haddock, mackerel, shad, scup, 
whiting, striped bass, clams, cod, and. croaker. 

In the South Atlantic and Gulf States: lied snapper, groupers, Spanish and 
kin; mackerel, sea trout, king whiting, and mullet. 

In the Great Lakes area: Pike, lake trout, sheepshead, and yellov; perch. 

On the T .. T est Coast: Rock'fish, lingcod, halibut, salmon, shad, barracuda, 
flounder, sablefish, and smelt. 




