SHIP'S COOK 3c AND 2c 

, p. 

‘ t PREPARED BY 
STANDARDS AND CURRICULUM DIVISION 



TRAINING 

, BUREAU OF NAVAL PERSONNEL 


) 



NAVY TRAINING COURSES 
EDITION OF 1945 


UNITED STATES 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 
WASHINGTON: 1945 


Digitized tjy K^OOQie 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



PREFACE 


This book is written as an aid in the preparation of men 
for promotion to the ratings of Ship’s Cook third class and 
second class. It is realized that nothing can take the place of 
practical experience in the galley, bakery, and butcher shop. 

The book is designed to cover the qualifications of Ship’s 
Cook third class and second class; and the qualifications in 
turn have been determined from the actual “on board” analyses 
of these rates. The necessary qualifications for these rates, 
in accordance with Part D, Chapter V, Section 2 of the 
Bureau of Naval Personnel Manual, are included in the 
Appendix at the back of this book. Since the examination 
for promotion to the Cook’s rates will be based exclusively 
on these qualifications, it is suggested that men refer to them 
frequently for guidance. 

This book begins with the organization and regulations of 
the general mess. It follows with a discussion of the proper 
handling of provisions from the time they come aboard until 
they are used. It includes inspecting, storing, issuing, cooking, 
baking and serving. Wherever applicable, problems in arithmetic 
are explained and illustrated. The essential equipment in 
galley, bakery, and butcher shop is both pictured and discussed. 
Discussions of safety precautions in the use of the equipment, 
of menu planning, and of the cutting of meat are important 
parts of the text material. The book concludes with a treat- 
ment of the prevention of food poisoning, and a description 
of landing force cooking. 

As one of the Navy Training Courses, this book repre- 
sents the joint endeavor of the Training Courses Section; in 
the Bureau of Naval Personnel and of those Naval Establi^i^- 
ments specially cognizant of the technical aspects of Ship’s 
Cooks’ duties. \ 


TT 


Digitized by 


Google 


a t 


\ 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA _ 



> VC37'-i 

/) 

/ / r .. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 

Preface ' II 

CHAPTER I 

Food for thought 1 

CHAPTER 2 

The general mess 5 

CHAPTER 3 

Inspecting provisions 17 ' 

CHAPTER 4 

Storing provisions 35 

CHAPTER 5 

Issue and disposal of provisions 49 

CHAPTER 6 

Food, what it is 61 

CHAPTER 7 

Menu planning 73 

CHAPTER 8 

Galley and butcher shop equipment 83 

CHAPTER 9 

Cutting meat the Navy way 103 

CHAPTER 10 

What’s cooking 163 

I6r;73533 

III 

Digitized by GOUglC UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.) 



Preface Page 

CHAPTER II 

The arithmetic of recipes 193 

CHAPTER 12 

Baking 201 

CHAPTER 13 

Dishing it up 223 

CHAPTER 14 

Something about poisons 229 

CHAPTER 15 

Landing force cooking 237 


IV 

Digitized by 


Got^igle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



SHIP'S COOK 3c AND 2c 


Digitized by 


Got.)gle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Digitized by 


Goi>gle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




CHAPTER I 

FOOD FOR THOUGHT 

CALL FOR CHOW 


The morning is cold, damp, and misty. The men 
are grumbling and growling as they slide out of their 
sacks and hit the deck. “What a lousy day.” 

Then comes the call to morning chow. Steaming 
hot coffee, delicious fried ham and eggs, and toast 
covered with golden butter. In other words, a good, 
hot breakfast. Now where is all that grumbling? Gone 
with the first cup of coffee. And, who drove it away? 
The Ship’s Cook, of course ! 

In fact, a good Ship’s Cook can actually change a 
poor crew into a good one. He can do more to raise 
the morale of the crew than any other one person. 

Everyone knows that men who are healthy and 
happy do a much better job than those who are sick 
and sad. And what makes men healthy and happy? 
Good, tasty food! Sure, there are other things, but 
food is of PRIMARY importance in keeping men fit, 
. and willing and able to work. Remember that old 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


1 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA^! 



adage “the shortest way to a man’s heart is through 
his stomach”. Well, it’s true, and his feelings and 
desire to work are affected, too. A good Ship’s Cook 
is worth his weight in gold. 

This book can help you learn many of the things a 
good cook should know. It can help you to qualify for 
Ship’s Cook, 3c or 2c, and to get the increase in pay 
that goes with each rating. But, neither this book, 
nor any other book can teach you how to cook or bake. 
You have to learn to cook by cooking, and to bake 
by baking. In the back of this book you will find the 
qualifications for your ratings as set forth by the 
Bureau of Naval Personnel. Meanwhile, just take a 
look at what you have to do and know. 


SHIP’S COOK THIRD CLASS 

In the first place, you are expected to know how 
the general mess is set up — who is in charge, how it 
is organized, and the daily changes that occur. 

You should know the classes and groups into which 
foods are divided, and what each kind of food is good 
for. Knowing your vitamins is especially important. 
But merely knowing these things is not enough. You 
must be able to put what you know to good use. For 
instance, you should be able to make out a menu for 
one week showing that you know enough to feed the 
men the right amounts of meat, fruits, and vegetables. 

You must know how to get the provisions you may 
need, and the regulations for taking these provisions 
from the storeroom. 

You should know what to do in order to keep the 
food pure and clean from the time it arrives aboard 
ship until it is served to the men. This includes know- 
ing how to care for refrigerators, vegetable lockers, 
and any other storage devices you have aboard your 
ship. This includes, too, special care required to pre- 
vent any possible spoiling of the food. 


2 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



You should be able to cut meat for different uses. 
To do that, you will have to tell the names, locations, 
and proper uses of the various cuts of beef, veal, 
lamb, and pork. 

You must be able to take your place in a galley 
watch. This means knowing how to start, operate, 
secure, and clean the galley range. The same is true 
for all the mechanical tools such as meat grinders 
and potato peelers that you have in your galley. 

Finally, you should be able to cook. And cooking 
requires a familiarity with standard Navy recipes as 
given in the Navy Cook Book. An examining board 
might ask you to prepare, cook, and serve any four 
dishes. These dishes include vegetables, meats, and 
desserts. So, you will need a little practice. 


SHIP’S COOK SECOND CLASS 

In order to get your second class rating, you must 
know more about your job than you did to get your 
third class rating. In addition to showing that you 
can make out a bill-of-fare, you must prove that you 
are able to figure out how much of each kind of food 
should be ordered and how much money the food 
will cost. Here you’ll use a little arithmetic, but not 
too much. It is important to know something about 
the Navy ration, surveys, and sales to messes. You 
must also be able to supervise the delivery, inspection, 
and storage of provisions and fresh meats. And you 
must know how cold the storage rooms need to be 
kept for different kinds of provisions as well as how 
long these different provisions can be stored without 
spoiling. 

LEADER OP MEN 

And remember, there are some things every petty 
officer is supposed to know and be able to do. These 
are not specific duties of your rating, but are require- 


Digitized 


V Google 


3 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA^ 



merits for all petty officers. A petty officer should be 
able to take charge of a group of men. He is expected 
to be able to show men under him how the work must 
be done. He should be able to conduct drills and physi- 
cal exercises. He should know a little about first aid. 
He must be qualified to handle simple arithmetic. He 
should know what is expected of him in helping to 
maintain order ashore and afloat. He should have 
some idea about how to assist with damage control. 
Such information is given in the General Training 
Course for Petty Officers 3c cmd 2c. These factors 
are mentioned here so that you will keep in mind 
some of the specific responsibilities which you have' 
as a petty officer. Look at the petty officers around 
you. Learn to do what the best of them do. 

And now for the organization of the mess. 


4 


Digitized by 


Gougle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



CHAPTER 2 


THE GENERAL MESS 

TEAM MATES 

Remember when you used to play baseball in the 
neighborhood alley, vacant lot, or pasture? You didn’t 
always have exactly nine players to make up a team. 
But everybody played. If there were not enough in 
the gang, each guy covered more ground and played 
more positions. If there were too many, each of you 
covered less ground. Very likely you had to make 
daily changes in the rules in order to make a satis- 
factory game. 

The job of feeding men aboard ship works out 
pretty much the same as your sandlot baseball. Most 
of the rules and regulations are laid down for the 
largest ships with a full complement of men aboard. 
On a small ship where there aren’t so many men, one 
man will have to cover more territory. Maybe your 
ship isn’t large enough to have a supply officer. In 
that case the commanding officer — your skipper — will 
have to take over more duties. Maybe there isn’t a 
chief commissary steward aboard. The senior Ship’s 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 


5 


UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 


Cook may have to cover this additional territory. Pos- 
sibly a Ship’s Cook, second class, is in charge of feed- 
ing the men on your ship. 

The object of your team aboard ship is to score 
victories over the enemy. And your part on the team 
is to get the men fed properly so they can do their 
work well together. There are some high ranking 
officers on your team. True, they are coaching on the 
sidelines much of the time. That’s big league stuff. 
Yet, Navy Regulations put certain responsibilities 
upon these officers and you must help them meet those 
responsibilities. You’ll want to know what the respon- 
sibilities are so you can better appreciate your own 
part. 

Your team’s coaching staff consists of — 

The Commanding Officer, or Skipper, who is 
the manager. 

The Executive Officer, or assistant manager. 

The Medical Officer, as the trainer. 

The First Lieutenant, or grounds keeper. 

The Master-at-Arms, or assistant grounds 
keeper. 

The Supply Officer, or coach. 

The Commissary Officer, or assistant coach. 

The Chief Commissary Steward, or field coach. 

Figure 1 shows you how the staff lines up. 

Notice that the executive officer is responsible di- 
rectly to the commanding officer. The first lieutenant, 
supply officer, and medical officer work under the 
executive officer. And the chief commissary steward 
answers directly to the supply officer. Aboard ship, 
the master at arms is under the first lieutenant. At 
shore stations, he is responsible to the supply officer. 

What does this coaching staff do? 

THE MANAGER 

The COMMANDING OFFICER sets the hours of mess- 
ing since he is responsible for both the ship’s require- 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



ments and the readiness of the crew. Only in an emer- 
gency may the O.O.D. change the time for chow and 
then he must immediately notify the commanding 
officer of such a change. 

Everything possible is done to keep the crew from 
being disturbed during chow. Escorting visitors 



Figure I. — ^The line-up. 


through the mess quarters while the men are eating 
is discouraged. 

The commanding officer must take the final re- 
sponsibility for providing good and wholesome food. 
To help him meet this obligation he makes periodic 
inspections to see that all cooking and mess utensils 
are kept clean. He also approves the weekly bill-of- 
fare prepared by the chief commissary steward. 

When there is no supply officer aboard, the skipper 
also assumes the responsibilities of that officer. Al- 


Digitized 


V Google 


7 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 


though the commanding officer retains the respon- 
sibility, he usually delegates the actual duties of run- 
ning this general mess to a line officer — usually the 
first lieutenant. 


ASSISTANT MANAGER 

The executive; officer has general charge of the 
messing arrangements. He is responsible for getting 
the mess cooks and one or more petty officers to act 
as police in supervising their work. These petty offi- 
cers are known as masters at arms. 

The executive officer notifies the supply officer every 
day of the number of men to be fed so the proper 
amount of food can be prepared. Men going on spe- 
cial detail or on liberty will decrease the amount of 
food necessary. 

Where cafeteria style is not used, the “exec’* also 
sets up the sub messes. That is, he divides the enlisted 
men below the rating of C.P.O. into groups of 20 each. 
Each of these groups eats together as a sub mess. The 
senior petty officer in each of these divisions acts as 
captain of his sub mess. As such, he is responsible 
for the proper behavior of his messmates. He also 
acts as their spokesman in making complaints or in 
talking with officers about other matters. 

Men going on watch bring up another problem for 
the executive officer. He may have to make special 
arrangements to feed these men properly, 

TRAINER 

The main job of the medical officer is to see that 
the men are healthy and full of pep. It is his duty to 
see that frequent inspections of galley and messing 
facilities are made, either by himself, a junior medi- 
cal officer, or a pharmacist’s mate. The medical officer 
must report to the captain if the galley is not as clean 
as it should be or if he feels that the health of the 

6 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



crew may be injured in any way by sloppy or careless 
handling of foods. 

The medical officer must see that all fresh provi- 
sions that come aboard are inspected. This includes 
investigating both sources of supply and quality of 
fresh vegetables, milk, water, and fruits. The medical 
officer is a pretty important member of your team. 

COACH 

The SUPPI.Y OPPiCER, or a line officer appointed to 
perform the supply officer’s duties, is head of your 
department. This officer is responsible, among other 
things, for obtaining, storing, and preparing the food 
for the general mess. He must also see that the galley, 
bakery, issuing room, and other places that come 
under his charge are kept clean and in good condition. 
At shore stations the S.O. is also in charge of the serv- 
ice of the food, thus relieving the first lieutenant of 
this responsibility. 

,On some of the larger ships, a commissary oppicpr 
is appointed to work under the supply officer. He re- 
lieves the S.O. of the details of running the general 
mess. 

On some smaller ships, the C.O. may appoint a line 
officer to take over the operation of the general mess. 

FIELD COACH 

The CHipp COMMISSARY STEWARD is in direct 
charge of the galley, the bakery, the butcher shop, 
and the commissary storerooms. If there is no regu- 
lar supply or commissary officer present, the C.O. 
must depend on the chief more than ever. 

The chief regulates the watches and musters the 
enlisted men working under him each morning. He 
often takes personal charge of the galley when the 
food is being prepared. And he pays particular atten- 
tion to the issuing of the food. 


Digitized 


V Google 


9 

Original frDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



A couple of desk jobs keep the chief busy much 
of the time. He sees that the weekly bill-of-fare is pre- 
pared about a week in advance. The bill-of-fare is sent 
to the S.O. who in turn sends it on to me C.O. for final 
approval. Once the bill-of-fare has been approved 
by the C.O. it cannot be changed without his approval. 
The chief is also responsible for making out the 
statement oe issues to the general mess and 
COST OF RATIONS. You may be asked to help with 
these tasks. 


GROUNDS KEEPER 

You’ll see the first lieutenant around the gen- 
eral mess once in a while. He is responsible first of 
all for getting all the mess gear. Then he must see 
that all this gear is kept in good shape. This calls 
for frequent inspections. 

Aboard ship, the first lieutenant is usually placed 
in charge of the mess deck and of the service of the 
food to the men. The supply officer’s responsibility 
for preparing the food stops at the galley door — the 
ffirst lieutenant takes over from there. 

After a meal is over, the problems of cleaning up 
the mess deck and disposing of the garbage come up. 
These are other responsibilities for the first lieutenant. 

Aboard ship, the master at arms does the on-the- 
job supervising for the first lieutenant. The mess 
cooks do most of the actual work under the supervi- 
sion of the master at arms. These mess cooks are 
non-rated men who have regular duties in other de- 
partments of the ship. The mess duty is in addition 
to these regular duties. 

MEN IN WHITE 

Under the field coach, the team lines up as shown 
in figure 2. 

Notice that there are 5 men responsible directly 


10 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



to the chief. They are — the jack of the dust, the spud 
coxswain, the senior baker, the senior butcher, and the 
senior cook. On some ships there is no senior cook 
position. In such cases, the captains of the galley 
watches are responsible directly to the chief. 

The cooks and bakers are divided into port and 
starboard watches with the senior cook or baker of 
each watch acting as captain. On some large ships the 


I JACK OF THE DUST 


.CCS 



'SENIOR BAKER 

SENIOR 



CAPTAIN. PORT 
GALLEY WATCH 



SHIPS COOKS 


CAPTAIN. STARBOARD 
GALLEY WATCH 



STRIKERS 


Figure 2.— Galley lineup. 


butchers are also divided into watches. The food is 
prepared under the direction of the watch captains. 

The strikers are non-rated men who are being 
trained as cooks. 


SENIOR GALLEY COOK 

Where there is a senior cook, he is in direct charge 
of the galley, and is responsible for carrying out all 
orders relating to the galley. He sees to it that every- 
thing is clean and in good order at all times. 

When the watch is relieved, the senior cook should 
personally see that the watch standers going off 


Digitized 


739872 ^- 47 - 

Google 


11 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA ^ 



duty have completed their work properly. The men 
coming on watch should be clean and fit for duty. 
Their uniforms must be clean and white and 
they should be wearing aprons and hats. 

The senior cook gets the blame if chow isn^t ready 
ON TIME. That means on time — not too early so that 
hot foods cool or iced foods get warm. It is his duty 
to inspect each type of food served to be sure that 
it has been prepared in the best possible way. 

In the absence of the chief coijimissary steward, 
the senior cook must be able to step in and take 
his place. 

CAPTAIN OF THE WATCH 

Working directly under the senior cook (or the 
chief commissary steward), it falls to the lot of the 
watch captain to see that the daily routine is properly 
carried out. 

He has direct charge of the cooks and strikers 
detailed to his galley. He musters his watch each 
morning early enough to get breakfast ready on 
time. The names of men absent at this muster are 
sent to the chief commissary steward. 

The watch captain carefully supervises the pre- 
paration, cooking, and issuing of the food to the 
mess cooks. The bill-of-fare is followed carefully. 
The watch captain also guards against the unlawful 
removal or issue of food from the galley. 


SENIOR BUTCHER 

A ship’s cook detailed for duty in the butcher shop 
cuts and issues all meat for the galley and special 
messes as needed. As senior butcher, he is under 
the direct supervision of the chief commissary stew- 
ard. 

The butcher is responsible for the cleanliness of 
the butcher shop. He must also see that all meats 
are properly kept in cold storage. 


1.2 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



No one except the butcher or his assistants should 
be allowed in the cold storage room except when 
stowing, breaking out, or cleaning. 


SPUD COXSWAIN 

A ship’s cook, called the spud coxswain, is detailed 
for duty in the fruit and vegetable preparation room. 
He is directly responsible to the chief commissary 
steward. He sees that the necessary fruits and vege- 
tables are prepared for the daily menu. 


JACK OF THE DUST 

A ship’s cook, storekeeper, or non-rated man is 
detailed to the issue room as jack of the dust. He 
must make sure that there are always enough supplies 
on hand to meet the needs of the mess. Moreover, 
it’s his duty to see that nothing is given out without 
proper authority — and sometimes that isn’t easy. 
Some friends expect too much. 

- Frequently, the jack of the dust is also placed in 
charge of the cold storage compartments. He must 
see that these compartments are kept clean and that 
the meats and other provisions are stowed properly 
in these rooms. Thermometer readings must be taken 
at least once a day and recorded on the Statement 
of Issues to General Mess and Cost of Rations Daily. 
The S.O. wants these readings so he can be sure 
correct temperatures are being maintained. 

Stock tally card records are kept in the bulk store- 
room to show the amounts of each type of provisions 
received and issued. Sometimes these cards are also 
kept in the issue room. 

After the bill-of-fare has been received, breakouts 
are made from the bulk storeroom with the help of 
a detail of mess cooks. Ordinarily only one, two, or 
three breakouts are made each week. So the jack 


Digitized 


V Google 


13 


Original frDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



of the dust must be on his toes to get what he needs 
for several days at a time. 

Night rations may be issued only under authority 
of the skipper. The jack of the dust will receive 
the word from the chief commissary steward. 

GALLEY AND BAKESHOP WATCHES 

Cooks and bakers work long hours. They must be 
up early enough in the morning to prepare breakfast 
and they remain on the job at night until everything 
is secured after supper. The work is interesting 
but HARD. For these reasons, a watch system that 
gives them more time off at one stretch is set up. 
Usually, yours is the only outfit aboard ship using 
this system of watches. 

The men are divided into two watches — starboard 
and port. Watches are relieved at 1300 when every- 
thing has been secured after dinner. Ordinarily, the 
watches run for 24 hours at a stretch. For example, 
the starboard watch may go on duty at 1300 Monday. 
This watch prepares supper on Monday and break- 
fast and dinner on Tuesday. Then it is relieved by 
the port watch. The port watch prepares supper on 
Tuesday and breakfast and dinner on Wednesday 
before it is relieved by the starboard watch. Twenty- 
four hours off and then 24 hours on. 

Some ships use a system of watches which gives 
the men even more time off at a stretch. 

Cooks and bakers are excused from all except 
general drills and exercise. Even then= — except in 
cases of actual emergency — the number of cooks 
and bakers left on regular duty is sufficient to prepare 
the required food. 

KEEP IT CLEAN 

Have you noticed how often the words “clean”, 
“cleaning” and “cleanliness” have been mentioned? 

14 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



There is a reason for this. Disease germs grow best 
in filth. Good health goes with cleanliness. 

One of the main duties of each person connected 
with the general mess is to do everything possible 
to keep things clean. 

Make it a practice to wash your hands frequently. 
Keep your finger nails clean, your hair trimmed, and 
your face shaved. See that your uniform is clean 
and white. Always wear a clean apron and a hat. 
But remember — under no circumstances should 
clothes be either washed or dried in the gal- 
ley WHEN FOOD IS BEING PREPARED. 

The galley deck, bulkheads, overhead, equipment, 
and all utensils must be kept clean. You can expect 
a clean galley when you go on watch only if you 
leave a clean galley when you are relieved. 

Use enough hot water to get things clean but don’t 
be wasteful. You can rinse out a 6o gallon kettle with 
10 gallons of hot water more easily than you can 
with 30 gallons of water. When water boils, that’s as 
hot as it will get in an open container. Adjust the 
heat so that the water will just keep boiling until 
you are ready to use it. And don’t heat water until 
you are nearly ready to use it. Any extra heat is 
wasted and may cause damage to the range. 

Do your smoking outside the galley. Cigarette 
ashes in the soup don’t improve its quality, taste, or 
appearance. And get rid of the garbage in the proper 
way before it accumulates. 


GALLEY REGULATIONS 

Rules and regulations are set up in every galley. 
You’ll find them posted. Find out what these regula- 
tions are. Then follow them faithfully. 

Many of the usual regulations have to do with 
keeping things clean. You’ve already read about 
that. Here are some of the other things usually cov- 
ered. 


Digitized 


V Google 


15 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



When off duty, get your recreation and rest some- 
where else. Don’t hang around the galley. Only 
authorized people are allowed in the galley. Others 
should be asked to leave. 

Do everything you can to see that good, wholesome 
food is used. Be on the lookout for “blown” cans 
or cans that have holes in them. Put these cans aside 
so they can be surveyed. Foods with sour and unpleas- 
ant smells or off colors are doubtful. DouBTFuiy food 
IS BAD FOOD, until proved otherwise. 

Navy regulations indicate that all fires used for 
cooking shall be extinguished at tattoo unless the 
C.O. gives orders to keep them burning for some 
special purpose. 

If you’re given a ship’s key for any reason, never 
take it from the ship. Keys to the storerooms are to 
be turned into the supply office every night. The 
galley and bakeshop keys may be kept by the captain 
of the watch until he is relieved. Another thing — pass 
on to your relief any special orders or duties that 
he should know about. 


16 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




CHAPTER 3 

INSPECTING PROVISIONS 

WHERE FROM 

Ever help with the family shopping? It’s a big 
job. Yet, think how much bigger is the shopping 
job of your Navy. And the Navy is just as anxious 
as any member of your family to get the best provi- 
sions possible. 

The ships of the Navy get most of their foodstuffs 
from a supply depot, a contractor, or a supply ship. 
Before leaving port, a ship is usually loaded to capac- 
ity with canned goods, flour, breakfast cereals, coffee, 
tea, sugar, frozen meats and other provisions in 
accordance with the standard loading lists given in 
Chapter 13 of MuSandA Memo, As a rule this 
supply lasts for something less than six months, 
depending on the size and type of the ship and the 
mission it has been assigned. Supply ships help re- 
plenish the stores whenever necessary. 

Perishable provisions — meats, dairy and poultry 
products and fresh fruits and vegetables — are ob- 
tained while in port within the United States either 

17 


Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



from a supply depot or from dealers. Purchase con- 
tracts are made with dealers by supply officers ashore. 
Information concerning these contracts is sent to all 
ships and stations in the area by means of a contract 
bulletin. Reference to this bulletin gives the names 
and addresses of dealers from whom various types 
of provisions can be bought. Prices and descriptions 
are also indicated. 

If an item is not available from the supply depot 
or from contract dealers, the supply officer or the 
commanding officer may approve purchases from 
other dealers. These purchases may be made any- 
where in the world. 


HOW GOOD ARE THE PROVISIONS 

Most provisions are inspected by a representative 
of the Department of Agriculture, sometime before 
being delivered to the ship. The medical officer of 
the ship is responsible for seeing that nothing harmful 
to the health of the crew comes aboard. This calls 
for a QUALITY inspection. The supply department 
is responsible only for inspecting provisions as to 
QUANTITY received. 

Federal specifications are set up to cover most of 
the items of provisions which are used by the Navy. 
These specifications give the sizes, grades, appear- 
ances, and types of acceptable products. The Bureau 
of Supplies and Accounts has a representative on 
the Board that prepares these specifications. This 
representative is responsible for the special Navy 
requirements included in the specifications. As these 
foodstuffs are the raw materials with which you 
work, you’ll want to know something about their 
requirements. 


GOOD BREAD— CAN YOU TELL IT? 

Examine the outside of the bread first. Good bread 
is golden brown in color. The color is uniform 


18 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



throughout without light or dark spots. It has a 
good volume and is symmetrically shaped — not low 
on one end and high on the other or bulging in the 
middle. Pierce the crust of a sample loaf with your 
forefinger to see if the crust is thin and tender. 

Now cut the loaf in two. Chew a piece from the 
center and another one containing crust. The taste 
must be pleasing. Put one of the cut surfaces near 
your nose and squeeze the bread so you can more 
easily smell its odor. The odor should be pleasingly 
sweet — not sour, musty, or moldy. 

The best color of the inside soft portion, or crumb, 
is a creamy white. Cut a few slices and hold them to 
the light. You ought to see a healthy looking gloss. 
Examine the grain of the bread. A close, even, uni- 
form grain is desired. No open or coarse grains or 
large holes should show. 

Page 211 in Chapter 12 of this book gives you 
a scoring chart which will help you judge bread. 

CAN YOU PICK OUT GOOD MEAT? 

Can you tell a good steak or roast when you see 
it — when you SDiS it, not when you taste: it? How 



Figure 3. — Inspection stamp— meat (U. S. Dept, of Agriculture). 


much fat should be on it? What color should it be? 
What part of the carcass should it be from? These 
questions come up when you buy meat for a few 


Digitized b'; 


/ Google 


19 

Original frDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



people. Similar questions need to be answered when 
considering meat for Navy use. 

All deliveries of meat and meat food products 
made to the Navy in the United States must carry 
the inspection stamp of the United States Depart- 
men of Agriculture. See figure 3. The number on 
this stamp indicates the packing plant where the 
meat was processed. The ''u. s. insp^d & indi- 

cates that the meat has met the requirements set 
up by the Department of Agriculture. 

But that isn’t enough. One of the stamps shown 
in figure 4 must also appear on meat acceptable to 
the Navy. These Army and Navy inspection stamps 
are placed on the meat at the meat packing plants. 




Figure 4. — lr>spect!on stamps {Navy— Army), 



The stamps indicate that the meat has mbt the high 
requirements set up by the Army and Navy. 

Another inspection is usually made by a Depart- 
ment of Agriculture inspector at the time the meat 
is delivered to the Naval activity. This inspection is 
made just to be sure the meat is still good. 

After all this has been done, an officer or petty 
officer from the medical department of the ship makes 
a QUAi^iTY inspection and an officer or petty officer 
from the supply department checks on the quantity. 


20 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



BEEF 


Beef used by the Navy may be divided into 2 classes 
— fresh-frozen and fresh-chilled. Fresh-frozen beef . 
is frozen into a solid block. Fresh-chilled beef has 
been thoroughly cooled to a temperature just above 
freezing but it has not been frozen. 

Most of the beef taken aboard is frozen and bone- 
less. The containers are labeled, '"beef, eresh-erozEn, 
boneeEss.^^ This meat is made up from equal num- 
bers of beef forequarters and hindquarters. The 
frozen beef is divided into three cooking groups — 
beef for roasting or frying takes up 40 percent of 
the meat; 30 percent is good for stewing or boiling; 
and the remaining 30 percent is suitable for ground 
beef. The boneless beef, so divided, is packaged in 
weatherproof fiber boxes. Each box holds from 45 
to 55 pounds of meat. 

Sometimes fresh-frozen boneless beef is made up 
from the hindquarters only. It is then labeled — "beee, 
HINDQUARTERS, erozEn, boneeESS.^^ This type of beef 
is packaged in the proportion of 50 percent for roast- 
ing and frying, 25 percent for stewing and boiling, 
and 25 percent for ground beef. 

Both frozen and chilled beef are generally delivered 
to shore stations in quarter carcasses. 

HOW TO TELL GOOD BEEF 

Remember that beef is inspected at the packing 
plant by a Department of Agriculture inspector. The 
beef is graded at that time. 

Meat grading is based on three things — conforma- 
tion, finish, and quality. 

Conformation refers to the shape, thickness, and 
meatiness of the carcass or cut. The best carcasses 
or cuts have a high percentage of meat as compared 
with bone. (Boneless meat is graded before the bones 
are taken out.) 


Digitized 


V Google 


21 

Original frDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Finish refers to the amount, kind, and distribu- 
tion of the fat. The best meat has a creamy white, 
hard fat evenly spread over the carcass. 

• Quality is determined by the color and character 
of the bone, the texture and color of the lean meat, 
and by the marbling. A piece of meat is well marbled 



Figure 5. — Marbling in meat. 


when there is a good mixture of fat mixed in with 
the lean meat. Notice how the fat shows up in figure 
5 with a desirable lace-like effect. 



Figure 6. — Quarter of beef showing feather bones. 


The carcass of young, tender beef contains soft, 
red bones with buttons (white cartilage) on the ends 


22 


Digitized by 


Goiigle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



of the feather bones (figure 6). The lean meat is a 
bright, cherry red and fine in texture (grain). Coarse 
meat is tough. 

Frozen beef is usually darker in color than fresh 
chilled beef of the same grade. It becomes darker in 
color as the length of the storage period is increased. 

WHAT ABOUT VEAL? 

Veai. (flesh of calves) is bought by the Navy in 
carcasses, in sides (halves), or in cuts. The meat 
may be fresh-killed or fresh-frozen. Acceptable 
veal carcasses weigh between 75 and 250 pounds. 
The best carcasses are blocky and compact. The meat 
is thinly covered Ayith clear, white, firm fat. The 
meat itself is firm and light brownish pink in color. 
The kidneys are covered with hard, white fat. 


LAMB 

Lamb is delivered either in carcass form or in 
cuts. Carcasses should weigh between 30 and 60 
pounds. Lamb may be fresh-chilled or fresh-frozen. 

Good quality lamb has firm flesh of fine texture. 
The fat is well marbled through the meat. The lean 
meat is of a light pink color. And the bones are soft. 


PORK 

Both fresh and cured wholesale cuts of pork are 
bought for Navy use. The most common fresh cuts 
are loins, shoulders, hams, and sparer ibs. These fresh 
cuts should be meaty and uniformly covered with 
a firm white fat. The meat itself should be fine- 
grained and firm — not watery. Good pork cuts have 
a light grayish-pink color. Generally they are delivered 
fresh-frozen. 

Properly cured hams and bacon can be kept much 
longer without refrigeration than fresh meat. Bacon 
is dry cured or dry salt cured for Navy use. Hams 


Digitized 


V Google 


23 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



are sweet pickle cured. This meat must also have 
been smoked. 

The grade of the finished product depends upon 
the curing method, quality of the fresh meat, and the 
way it was trimmed. The best cured bacon and hams 
— and that’s the kind you want — have smooth, thin 
skins and firm white fat. The meat is fine grained 
and bright colored. 

VEGETABLES 

Vegetables are such an important food, some peo- 
ple eat nothing else. And most important among the 
vegetables is the potato. 

Potatoes — More white potatoes are used aboard 
ship than all the rest of the fresh vegetables put 
together. So quality is extremely important. 

The best potatoes are sound, smooth, shallow-eyed, 
and reasonably clean. Avoid spuds that are wilted, 
leathery, or discolored. Watch out for decay. This 
decay appears either as a wet or a dry rot. Wet 
rot spreads rapidly. 

There are two types of white potatoes — round 
and LONG. These types must not be mixed. No. 1 
Grade, Size A spuds of either the round or long 
types are the most suitable for shipboard usf*. These 
potatoes are at least 1 V?, inches thick. 

Sweet potatoes — Good sweet potatoes are smooth, 
well-shaped, firm, and of bright appearance. Check 
them for decay. This decay shows up as a soft wet 
rot or as a dry, shriveled, sunken area- — usually at 
the end of the sweet potato. Sweet potatoes that 
appear to be damp should be examined carefully as 
they may not be the kind you want. The dampness 
may be due to bad handling, freezing, or decay. 

Extra #1 is a desirable grade of sweet potato for 
Navy use. This grade calls for sweet potatoes at 
least \Va inches thick and 8 inches long. They must 
weigh no more than 16 ounces each. 

Asparagus — Acceptable asparagus is fresh, ten- 


M 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from / 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 


I 



der, and firm. The tips are compact. Asparagus ages 
rapidly after it has been cut; the tips spread out and 
become woody. Green asparagus is preferred to the 
blanched kind. The stalks should measure at least 
V 2 inch in thickness. 

Be;ans — There are many varieties of green and 
wax or yellow pod snap beans. Some are flat — some 
are round. The best snap beans are clean, fresh, 
firm, crisp, tender, and free from spots. Break sev- 
eral pods in two. They should snap when they break. 

Avoid beans that are stringy or decayed. Decay 
shows up as a mold or as soft watery places on the 
beans. 

Good LIMA BEAN pods are well filled, clean, bright, 
fresh, and of a dark green color. Dried, shriveled, 
spotted, yellowed, or flabby pods may be old or affected 
by disease. 

Shelled lima beans ought to be plump and tender. 
Shelled beans spoil easily. Inspect them with extra 
care. 

Beets — The best beets are smooth, free from 
blemish, and reasonably clean. They are at least VA 
inches thick. 

Cabbage — Some of the most common types of 
cabbage are the pointed, Danish, domestic, savoy, 
and red. Prime heads of cabbage are reasonably solid 
and heavy. All but three or four of the outside leaves 
should have been removed. Cabbage heads that show 
worm injuries, decay, yellowing of leaves, or signs 
of bursting are not acceptable. 

Carrots — Good quality carrots are firm, clean, 
fresh in appearance, smooth, well-shaped, and of 
good color. The diameters are between VA and 3 
inches and the lengths are at least 3 inches. 

Wilted, flabby, soft, or shriveled carrots are un- 
desirable. So are decayed carrots. This decay shows 
up as a soft or water-soaked area which may be 
partially covered with mold. 


25 


Digitized 


V Google 


Original frDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Digitized by 


Caui^iflowER — Good cauliflower heads are white 
or creamy-white, clean, heavy, firm, and compact. 
The outer leaves are fresh and green. The best cauli- 
flower heads are at least 4 inches thick. Avoid spotted, 
speckled, or bruised heads. 

Celery-— The most desirable celery is of medium 
length and thickness. The stalks are brittle enough to 
snap easily. Pithy or stringy celery is not very good. 
Trimmed celery is delivered washed; untrimmed 
celery may have to be washed. 

Corn — Green corn is of two classes — swEET and 
FIELD. Field corn never has a very sweet taste. The 
kernels of field corn are usually white. Sweet corn 
kernels may be either white or yellow. 

The husks of good corn are fresh and green. The 
cobs are filled with bright, plump, milky kernels that 
are just firm enough to offer slight resistance to 
pressure. 

Cucumbers — Cucumbers should be firm, fresh, 
bright, well-shaped, and of a good green color. The 
No. 1 grade is best. Cucumbers in this grade are at 
least ifk inches thick and 6 inches long. 

Eogplants — Heavy, firm eggplants free from 
blemish and of a uniform dark color are the most 
desirable. Decay on eggplant appears as dark brown 
spots. Watch out for it. It spreads very fast. 

Greens — Broccoli, collards, endive, escarole, kale, 
and spinach are the most common leafy green vege- 
tables. These greens must be fresh, young, green, 
tender, and reasonably free from dirt. Flabby or 
wilted plants or leaves indicate age or some form 
of damage. 

Lettuce — Iceberg head lettuce is the type most 
commonly used in the Navy. Lettuce should be fresh, 
crisp, tender, and firm. No decay should be present. 
Only a few of the outer leaves should be left on — 
they serve as protection. 

Onions — Bright, clean, hard, well-shaped, mature 


26 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




onions are the ones you want. Onions with seed 
stems are undesirable. A thick, tough, woody condi- 
tion of the stem or neck tells you that these seed 
stems are present. Sometimes onions decay — the decay 
attacks either the outer or inner scales of the onion 
bulb. 

Whenever possible, get No. 1 grade Northern 
onions for shipboard use. These onions must be at 
least 1/4 inches thick. 

Good quality in GREEN onions is indicated by 
fresh green tops and by medium size necks. These 
necks should be white in color for at least 2 to 3 
inches from the root. The part of the green onion 
that is eaten ought to be crisp and tender. 

Parsley — Acceptable parsley is bright green, 
fresh, and free from dirt and yellowed leaves. 

Parsnips — Smooth, firm, well-shaped parsnips are 
best. They should be between 1>^ and 3 inches thick. 

Peas — The pods of good peas are bright green 
in color. They look fresh and are velvety to the 
touch. The pods must be well filled. A yellowish ap- 
pearance indicates age or damage. 

Peppers — Sweet peppers should be mature (ripe), 
firm, and well shaped. Bleached, discolored areas on 
the peppers are danger signs — such peppers won’t 
last long. 

Radishes — Good radishes are well-formed 
smooth, and firm. They are tender, crisp, and mild 
in flavor. 

Squash — Summer squash should be fresh, fairly 
heavy for its size, and free from blemish. The rind 
(outer skin) should be so tender it can be punctured 
easily. The rind on winter squash should be much 
harder. 

Tomatoes — Good quality tomatoes are ripe but 
not overripe, fairly well formed, plump, smooth, of 
good color, free from blemish and worm injuries. Puf- 
fy or watery tomatoes have a poor flavor. Acceptable 
tomatoes must be at least 2Va inches in diameter. 


739872“ — 47 3 


27 


Digitized 


V Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Turnips — The best turnips are smooth and firm. 
There are few leaf scars around the turnip tops and 
few fibrous roots are present on the bottom part of 
the turnips. 

Good WHITE turnips should be between 2 and 3/^ 
inches thick — yellow turnips between and ^ 
inches thick. 


FRESH FRUITS 

Fresh fruits are enjoyed and appreciated by almost 
everybody. But they must be fresh and of good 
quality. Only good, sound fruit, free from decay or 
mold should ever be used. 

Apples — The best apples are firm and of good 
color and flavor. Overripe apples are soft — they sink 
in when you press on them just a little. The larger 
apples are more likely to be overripe than the small 
or medium-sized ones, particularly toward the end 
of the late apple season. Unripe apples usually lack 
color and flavor. Watch out for decay. 



Figure Hand of bananas. 


» 

Bananas — Bananas are bought in bunches or in 
cut HANDS (figure 7) of not less than 10 fully devel- 
oped fingers packed in boxes. The hands must be 
well filled, clean, bright, firm, and plump. The bunches 

a 




28 

Digitized by Got.tgle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CAUF QR I ^/ H 



must weigh at least 55 pounds, and the bananas must 
be at least 5>^ inches long. Hawaiian bananas are an 
exception. A bunch of Hawaiian bananas must weigh 
at least 35 pounds and the bananas must be at least 
5 inches long. 

Watch out for bruises and decay. The bruises 
show up as dark or blackened areas of the skin. 
Mold or darkened banana skins may indicate decay. 

Berrie:s — Good bIvAckberrib^s, de:wbe:rrie;s, 
I.OGANBERRIES, or RASPBERRIES are bright and clean. 
Each berry is plump, fresh, and of good color. 

Good strawberries haVe a solid red color. They 
are at least Va inches in thickness and the green 
cap is still attached. 

All berries should be free from dirt, trash, and 
moisture. 

Cherries — The best cherries are bright, fresh, 
plump, and of good color. Decayed cherries are not 
acceptable. Damp, stained, or leaky boxes indicate 
that decay may be present. 

Cranberries — A fresh plump appearance, com- 
bined with high luster and firmness, indicates good 
quality. 

Grapefrui'P — Good grapefruit is firm and springy 
to the touch — not soft, wilted, or flabby. The fruit 
should be well-shaped and heavy for its size. This 
heaviness indicates a thin skin and high juice content. 

Grapefruit usually comes packed 70 and 80 to the 
box. Decayed fruits are not acceptable. 

Grapes — Grapes must be ripe and fresh. The indi- 
vidual berries should be attached firmly to the stems. 

There are two principal types of grapes- — American 
and European. The American type is generally pre- 
ferred for use aboard ship. 

Lemons — California produces almost all the lem- 
ons grown in this country. The skin of good lemons 
has a fine texture. The good lemon is heavy for 
its size. 


Digitized 


/ Gotgle 


29 

Original frDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Decay appears as a mold or as a soft discolored 
area at the stem end. In an acceptable box of 360 
lemons, only 2 lemons may be decayed. 

Melons — Quality in cantaloupes is determined 
by sweetness, fine texture, flavor, and ripeness. Ripe- 
ness is indicated by netting on the skin and by the 
condition of the scar at the stem end. The netting 
should be coarse, corky, well-developed, and of a 
grayish color. The scar at the stem end should be 
slightly sunken and calloused. This indicates that the 
melon separated easily from the vine. It didn’t have 
to be cut away. Overripe cantaloupes are soft, watery, 
and insipid. Decay is indicated by soft sunken spots 
on the surface or by mold and moisture on the stem 
end. 

Honeydew melons keep a long time. They may 
be taken aboard before they are ripe but must be 
allowed to ripen before they are used. 

Ripeness is the most important thing to check 
when inspecting watermelon. Thump the melons 
with your knuckles. If they make a dull hollow sound 
they are ripe. If they make a ringing sound they 
are not yet ready for eating. 

Oranges — Oranges of the best quality are firm 
and heavy. The skins are finely textured and well 
colored. Decay shows up as a soft area that seems 
to be water soaked. Acceptable deliveries of oranges 
may have no more than three oranges out of every 
100 decayed. 

Peaches — As peaches are extremely perishable, 
use thefii aboard ship only while the ship is in port 
and for a few days after leaving port. Taste a sample 
of the peaches to see if they are ripe. The color alone 
won’t tell you. The No. 1 grade of peaches is the 
most desirable for use aboard ship. These peaches 
must be at least 2 inches thick. 

Watch out for decay. Decay in peaches appears 
in the form of brown circular spots which spread 
rapidly. 



Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Pe)ars — Pears should be firm — but not hard, clean 
and well formed — not wilted or shriveled. It is all 
right to accept soft pears if they are not overripe 
and if you can use them right away. Good sizes for 
use aboard ship are those that are packed 135 or 
150 to the box. Acceptable pears may have only two 
out of every lOO showing signs of decay.. 

Pi^UMS and prunes — ^There are many varieties of 
plums. Good plums and prunes are plump, clean, of 
fresh appearance, and soft enough to yield to slight 
pressure. Shriveled fruit is usually leathery and poor 
in flavor. 


SEA FOODS 

Fish — Fish are delivered fresh-— chilled, or fresh- 
frozen. Make sure the fish are fresh in either case. 
Fresh fish have a fresh smell — as tangy as an ocean 
breeze. Their eyes are bright, their flesh firm, moist 
and elastic. Fresh-frozen fish are to be frozen solid 
when delivered. Refrozen fish are not acceptable. 

SHEEEEiSH---The shells of fresh oysters and 
CEAMS should be tightly clamped together. Do not 
accept them if the shells are gaping, because this 
means the shellfish are dead and, therefore, no longer 
good. 

Crabs and eobsters should be alive — very much 
alive — when you get them. 

CANNED GOODS 

Canned goods are ordinarily satisfactory if the 
cans are airtight. Look for evidences which might in- 
dicate that the airtight seal has been broken. Dents, 
rust spots, and evidence of leaking are danger signs. 

The spoiling of the food inside the can usually 
causes the can to swell and bulge. The only time 
that the food in a swollen can may be used is when 
the swelling has been caused by freezing. Check sec- 
tion 1305 of the BuSandA Memo for the details. 


Digitized 


V Google 


31 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Occasionally, canned goods may spoil without 
swelling. This type of spoiling is known as flat 
SOURING. When the can is opened, flat souring can 
usually be detected by the unusual color, texture, or 
odor of the food. Remember, doubtful food is bad 
FOOD. Don’t accept or use anything about which you 
have the slightest doubt. 

POULTRY 

DrFSSEd poultry — the kind usually delivered — 
has been killed and bled. Only the feathers have been 
removed. Dressed poultry bought by the Navy in- 
cludes chicken, duck, fowl, and turkey depending upon 
the location and season of the year. Poultry may be 
delivered as fresh-killed, fresh-chilled, fresh-hard 
chilled, or as storage poultry. 

Acceptable birds are full fleshed, well bled, free 
from deformities, abrasions, bruises, or other dress- 
ing defects. The head, feet, and vent are clean. And 
the pack is uniform and attractive. 

Chickens are classified as broilers, fryers, roasters, 
stags, capons, and fowl. The acceptable weights are 
variable — you’ll have to check the contract specifica- 
tions under which the chickens are ordered in order 
to tell whether the requirements have been met. 


SHELL EGGS 

Eggs for use ashore may be delivered as fresh 
or as storage eggs. Storage eggs have ordinarily 
been processed (treated with oil) sometime during 
the spring of the year, before being put into storage. 
Insofar as possible, only fresh eggs are procured by 
the Navy for use afloat and overseas. 

Federal specifications for eggs provide for six 
different grades, four different classes, and five dif- 
ferent weight ranges. Check the specifications to see 
what kind you’re supposed to get. 


32 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



When inspecting eggs, open up and examine a 
number of the cases. The eggs should be clean, uni- 
form in size, sound shelled, and free from mold and 
foreign odors. Break open several of the eggs from 
ditferent cases. The size of the air-cell underneath 
the shell, the appearance of the yoke, and the firm- 
ness of the white part should meet the requirements 
of the grades being delivered. Check your specifica- 
tions again. 

Also — the eggs must be packed properly in con- 
tainers which meet the requirements of the specifica- 
tions as to kind of wood, construction and number 
and type of fillers and fiats. Cases of eggs that are 
exported must be strapped. 


DAIRY PRODUCTS 

Mii,k and cream — The containers in which fluid 
milk and cream are delivered should be inspected 
carefully. Be sure these containers are the types 
called for in the specifications of the contract. And 
— see that the containers are clean and in good shape. 
During hot weather, check and record the tempera- 
ture of the milk and cream at time of delivery. 
Throughout the year regular tests of selected samples 
of the milk must be carried out by the medical de- 
partment. 

Butter — Be sure the containers in which butter 
is delivered carry the proper inspection stamp show- 
ing the grade and weight of the butter. Sample the 
butter for taste. It should be fresh, sweet, and clean 
tasting. The texture should be firm and uniform. 
The color of good butter is even and free from specks, 
streaks, and mottles. Break apart a piece of the 
butter. If the butter has a good, desirable grain, the 
break will show a jagged edge. 

Cheese — Cheddar cheese may be delivered either 
in natural or in processed form. Naturae cheese 
may be delivered as cheddar (70 pounds), flats (35 


Digitized 


V Google 


33 

Original 1tDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



pounds), single daisies (22 pounds), or as double 
or triple daisies. It may also be delivered in a number 
of smaller types and sizes. 

All types of natural cheese should show a smooth, 
hard rind. This rind must be free from mold, wrin- 
kles, cracks, and roughness. The flavor of good cheese 
is clean and “nutty.” The texture is solid, compact, 
and free from breaks, holes, and chunks. 

The color of good cheddar cheese is even through- 
out. Hold a small piece of this cheese up to the light. 
The light should come through in somewhat the 
same way that light comes through a frosted glass. 

Ice cream — Acceptable ice cream is frozen solidly. 
It must be packed in accordance with specifications. 
Good ice cream is smooth bodied and close textured. 
It has an even, natural color. The taste is rich and 
creamy and the flavor must equal that specified in 
the contract specifications. 


34 


Digitized by 


Gougle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




CHAPTER 4 

STORING PROVISIONS 

YOU'LL NEED TO GET AT 'EM 

Aboard ship you don’t have a 10-acre lot for stor- 
ing your provisions. Your space is strictly limited. 
And yet you must store enough provisions to last 
for months at a time. There is no running around 
to the corner grocery every day or so. 

Sure, you can pile the stuff in — but how about 
getting it out again. If you’re not careful, the items 
you want may be on the bottom of a huge pile of 
other things. You’ll have to empty the storeroom in 
order to get what you want. Stumbling over boxes 
put in awkward places or throwing your arm out of 
joint reaching for something stowed just out of reach 
isn’t exactly fun, either. 

You’re going to have to use your head. Stow the 
provisions you are going to need most frequently 
where you can get at them easily. Put everything 
away in an orderly manner. Orderly stowage will 
help you keep things clean as well as make a good 
impression on any inspecting officer. Best of all, you 

35 


Digitized by (^oogie 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 


will be able to find what you want when you want it. 
But, that isn’t all — 

A PROPER ENVIRONMENT 

Do you know what ef¥ect he;at, cold, light, 
WAT:^R, timi^, and air have on different provisions? 
You will need such knowledge to help you decide 
where and how to store food stuffs so they will be 
fit to use when needed. 

Heat used in the right way gets rid of harmful 
germs — but used in the wrong way, it speeds up 
their growth. Cold is excellent for keeping frozen 
beef, but it wrecks potatoes. Light keeps some in- 
sects under control, but it destroys the coloring of 
pickles in glass jars. Water in the air keeps lettuce 
fresh and crisp, but water is bad for flour. Fresh, 
unfrozen milk spoils in a few days’ time. Green 
coffee beans, except Brazilian Santos, improve with 
age. Dried fruits get along best where fresh air 
moves around a good deal. Canned goods spoil quickly 
when exposed to air. And you may have some un- 
welcome guests to deal with. 

UNWELCOME GUESTS 

Insects are unclean, unwanted, and unwelcome. 
They try to spend part of their time in filthy places 
and the rest of their time in the provisions you wish 
to use for food. Do everything possible to keep them 
out of the storeroom. If they do get in, make it so 
unpleasant for them they will either leave or die. 

Make a careful inspection of all provisions just 
before they are stored. The insects themselves may 
not be in sight but evidences of their presence may 
be observed. Webs or silky tubes on sacks or boxes, 
holes in the containers, and brownish specks in the 
flour or sugar tell you insects are around. 

If some do get in, what are you going to do about 


36 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



it? Most insects hate a thoroughly clean place. Keep 
the storeroom absolutely clean and some of them 
may starve to death. The rest will be easier to con- 
trol. It is easier to keep the place clean if you store 
all provisions on supports high enough to allow the 
deck to be well swept. Sweep up the flour and dust 
that falls between the sacks and packages — and do 
it fr^que;nti,y. Clean the corners, cracks, and tops 
of the beams — but oftfn. 

Insects grow best at temperatures between 50 ** F. 
and 110° F. As you can’t generally keep the store- 
room above 110° F., keep it below 50° if possible. 
Insects don’t like the cold treatment. 

In spite of all you do, some insects or their eggs 
may get aboard ship. Even under the poor housing 
conditions you have provided for them, they may 
develop and grow. Better not keep stock on hand 
any longer than necessary. Always use the oldest 
stock first. This means you will have to stow supplies 
so you can get at the oldest items without too much 
trouble. 

Cockroaches and water bugs can be eliminated by 
using commercial sodium fluoride. Dust this poison 
into all cracks and corners where cockroaches have 
been seen. Do it everywhere at one time or they will 
move to places that you missed. Do this every day 
until you see no more evidence of the pests. Arsenic 
mixed with paste and daubed on pieces of cardboard 
will help you get rid of some insects — ^but bf care- 
ful. Never forget you are dealing with deadly 
poisons. 

The DDT spray is very effective in eliminating 
most insects. 

You may be able to get rid of insects in flour, 
breakfast foods, and rice by giving them the heat 
treatment. Place the flour or other material in pans 
not more than to 2 inches deep. Put the pans in 
the oven and heat to about 180° F. Fifteen minutes 


Digitized 


V Google 


37 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



# 

at this heat is enough. Be careful you don’t scorch 
anything. Then sift these provisions through a fine 
mesh sieve so the dead insects will be caught on the 
sieve and can be eliminated. 

COLD STORAGE 

Cold storage places aboard ship are usually divided 
into three spaces or sections so that a different tem- 
perature can be maintained in each section. The cold 
storage or freezer section is kept at from 0° to 15° F., 
the butter and egg section is kept right around freez- 
ing (30° to 32° F.); and the vegetable or chill section 
is kept at about 45° F. Someone — usually a ship’s 
cook or a storekeeper — checks the thermometer read- 
ings frequently. The refrigerator pipes must be 
SCALED DOWN at least once every two months. If 
you find leaks in the sheathings or doors to the 
refrigerator, report your findings to the supply officer 
immediately. 

STORING DRY PROVISIONS 

Keep BAKING POWDER, CORNSTARCH, CRACKERS, 
MACARONI, SPAGHETTI, and SODA in a dry place having 



Figure 8. — Bags crosspiled. 


a MODERATE temperature. Under good conditions 
they will last at least five months. Be careful not to 



Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



damage the containers. A damaged container is an 
open door to insects, rats, and mice. If any of the 
containers do become damaged, the contents must 
be used right away. 

Be sure the storage place for dried beans and 
barley is dry and cool (below 44® F. if possible). 
Good ventilation keeps the beans from sweating — 
use fans if necessary. Cross-pile the bags on dunnage 
in rows two bags wide. Look at figure 8. Leave aisles 
between the rows for ventilation. Inspect and turn 
the bags frequently. Look for signs of mold on the 



Figure 9. — Flour pile. 


seed scar of the beans — it generally appears there 
first. Check for signs of insects. Under good condi- 
tions dried beans and barley can be safely kept for 
one year. 

The storage place for breakfast foods must be 
particularly dry. If necessary, lime can be spread 
around on the deck to absorb the moisture. In a dry 
place these breakfast foods last six months. 

Stow CORN MEAL and hominy grits on dunnage 
in a cool, dry place. Provide plenty of ventilation and 
they’ll last from 6 to 18 months. The type of. corn 
rneal known as “water ground” gets rancid after 
about three months. Use it up fast. 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


39 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Egg noodi^es keep for a period of one to two years 
under dry, cool storage conditions. 

Stow sacks of FEOUR on dunnage in cool, dry 
storerooms or compartments built so as to keep out 
rats and mice. Pile sacks no more than six high, as 
shown in figure 9. The extra weight of a higher 
stack harms the flour in the lower sacks. Keep flour 
away from strong odors. Inspect flour sacks often 
to see if any insects are in them. Wheat flour keeps 
well for m.ore than a year. Buckwheat and graham 
flour last for only five months. 

Stow PRUNES, RAISINS, and other dried fruits 
in a dry place. Dried fruits keep in good condition 
in a warm place for only about a month. At 70° F. 
they’ll last about a year, but at 35° F. they’ll keep 
for two years. The relative humidity should be kept 
at 75 percent. 

Pile sacks of rice on dunnage in a cool dry place. 
Rice dries out in storage and loses some weight but 
remains just as good to eat. Keep the rice from 
becoming musty by providing good ventilation. In 
hot climates, highly milled rice may become musty 
and infested with insects after six months, but brown 
or unmilled rice is good for only three months. 

CANNED GOODS AND DRINKS 

A can opener is a mighty handy tool to have aboard 
ship. Most of the canned provisions will last at least 
a year and are easy to prepare. About the only excep- 
tion is canned sea biscuits. These can be kept for 
eight months only. Your main job is to keep air from 
getting into the cans and spoiling the contents. 

Store the cans carefully in a dry place where the 
temperature is around 50° F. Wet or damp cans may 
rust out, thus letting the air in. Heat may cause the 
acids in rhubarb and strawberries to eat their way 
through the cans. Careless handling may cause dents 
that will develop pinholes. 


40 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Evaporated miek spoils if it is kept long at a tem- 
perature of 90° F. or above, but keeps well at between 
33° and 60° F. Turn the cases over at least once every 
three months — once a month if practicable — to pre- 
vent the separation of butter fats. Condensed, sweet- 
ened MiEK acts pretty much the same except that its 
color and thickness change at temperatures above 
70° F. Both SKIM and whoeE miek powde^i absorb 
smells easily, so it’s wise to use them soon after you 
have opened the cans. 

If glass containers are sealed with metal tops or 
corks, lay the bottles on their sides to prevent the 
stoppers from drying out and letting air in. 

Light is sometimes harmful to the color of goods 
in glass, so leave the bottles in the carton and lay the 
carton on its side in a cool place. 

Keep airtight containers of COFFEE and cocoa in a 
dry, cool place. Cocoa becomes rancid at temperatures 
over 70° F. Pile the sacks up on dunnage in such a 
way that there will be plenty of ventilation between 
the sacks. Under proper storage conditions, all green 
coffee except Brazilian Santos improves with age up 
to five years. Keep dampness out. Damp coffee beans 
become soft and pithy and lose their flavor and aroma. 

Coffee absorbs other smells easily. Keep it away 
from freshly painted places, kerosene, and onions. 
Roasted and ground coffee in sacks loses its flavor 
fast. Use it up as quickly as possible. 

Put TEA in a dry place where it won’t pick up strong 
smells. Dampness makes tea musty and sour. High 
temperatures destroy its flavor. Rough handling 
breaks up the leaves. You can keep black and Oolong 
teas for two years — green teas for one. 

SWEETS 

Store SUGAR in a clean, dry place — away from flies, 
ants, and roaches. Granulated sugar sweats and be- 
comes hard at temperatures over 80° F. ; also becomes 


Digitized 


V Google 


41 


Original frDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



hard if the air is damp. The flavor will be affected if 
you allow either mold to grow or dust to settle on 
the sacks. Use powdered sugar within three months 
as it may cake up badly after that time. 

Pure SUGAR CANDY and pure chocoeate candy 
should be stored under the same conditions as sugar. 
Milk mixed with the chocolate, or nuts and fruits 
added to it, make the candy harder to preserve. Soft 
candies must be stored at a temperature of less than 
60° F. Chocolates stored in temperatures over 70° F. 
develop a white “bloom”, but they can still be eaten. 

Sirups last for a long time if they are in air-tight 
containers. Handle the cases carefully to prevent 
leakage. Keep in a place where the temperature is 
moderate. 

Jams and jeeliES will remain usable for over two 
years if air doesn’t get into the containers. Take care 
of these as you do other canned things. Watch out 
FOR INSECTS. They eike sweets. 

DAIRY PRODUCTS AND EGGS 

Store MiEK in absolutely clean, covered containers. 
Before using the milk, stir it with a clean paddle to 
mix the milk and cream evenly. Milk kept just above 
freezing stays good for at least a week. The higher 
the temperature goes above freezing, the quicker the 
milk spoils. Fresh, pasteurized milk can be kept for 
months if solidly frozen. Thawed milk is beneficial 
although it doesn’t look as attractive as fresh milk. 

Butter, frozen solid and kept at 0° F. or below, 
remains good for eight months or more. Butter that 
is kept at a temperature above freezing must be used 
within a month. Thawing butter at a fast rate is bad. 
The best plan is to remove a day’s supply from the 
freezer each day and set it in the chill room where it 
can thaw out slowly. When you use only part of a 
carton, put what’s left back in the carton and close it 
as tightly as possible. Continued contact with air 
makes butter rancid. As butter picks up odors quickly, 

42 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



keep it where it cannot pick up the odor of onions or 
fresh paint. 

Cream cheese left wrapped and in the box in 
which it was delivered stays good for several months 
at a temperature around freezing. American and 
BRICK CHEESE crumble if the temperature gets much 
below freezing but the flavor sours if the temperature 
rises very far above freezing. Put these cheeses in the 
butter and egg box but be sure they are tightly 
wrapped and boxed. Most cheeses have a layer of 
paraffin on the outside to protect them from mold and 
insects. A mold on the outside of the cheese is not 
harmful as long as there are no cracks or openings 
in the paraffin. 

Keep ICE cream as cold as possible. It will last for 
several weeks at 0° F. and for six months at — 6° F. 
Chocolate and maple walnut ice creams keep the best. 
Use strawberry ice cream within a month. Vanilla 
may develop off (unnatural) flavors in about three 
months. 

Keep EGGS in a dry, well ventilated place free from 
odors. If necessary, spread calcium chloride around 
to absorb the moisture from the air. A sprinkling of 
lime will eliminate bad smells. Stow the cases of eggs 
on dunnage and put j4-inch wood strips between them 
for ventilation. Leave at least 8 inches between the 
top of the highest case and the overhead. 

If a case of eggs begins to get a moldy smell, re- 
move the eggs from the case and turn an electric fan 
on them for half an hour. Use these eggs the first 
chance you get. If eggs get wet, each one should be 
dried with a clean cloth or with the fan. Repack them 
in a dry case and use as soon as possible. 

Keep the eggs in the butter and egg room, where 
the temperature is around 32® F. Eggs freeze if the 
air gets much colder than 32® F. and they spoil if it 
gets much warmer. Plan to use them within four to 
six weeks time. 


739872“— 47 4 


43 


Digitized 


V Google 


Original frDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



YEAST 


Compressed yeast retains most of its baking 
strength if kept under 40 ° F. — around freezing is best. 
If yeast must be stored longer than two weeks, you 
should be sure that it is fresh and in excellent condi- 
tion. Freeze it solidly and leave it that way until you 
use it. Then let it thaw out gradually by placing it in 
the chill room. Remember to use from one-fourth to 
one-third more of the thawed-out yeast, as freezing 
destroys some of the living cell structure of the yeast. 

Dry yeast is stored in a cool, dry, well-ventilated 
place. It will keep well for six months at 70° F. but 
will last over a year if kept in the chill room. Since 
there is no moisture to expand on freezing, dry yeast 
is not harmed by freezing. But it must be thawed 
slowly in the chill room. Inspect yeast often for insects. 

FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

Fruits and vegetabeES, when purchased in hard 
frozen form, may be stored at 0° F. for over a year. 
Serve them immediately after thawing if they are to 
be eaten raw. You may cook them without first thaw- 
ing them if you wish. You’ll find it a good idea to 
follow the directions given on the carton. 

If possible, keep eresh (unfrozen) eruits in a 
storage compartment by themselves in order to pro- 
vide them with enough moisture and to prevent their 
odors from getting into other foods. The temperature 
should remain at about 40° F. and the fruit must be 
kept moist to prevent drying and wilting. Good air 
circulation is important. Use a fan, if necessary. 
Bananas must be handled a bit differently. Use a 
higher temperature to help them to ripen and to pre- 
vent them from becoming black. 

It is necessary to handle fresh fruit with special 
care to avoid bruising or skinning. Sort out any dam- 
aged fruit. In general, fresh fruit should not be frozen 

44 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



(unless purchased in that form), or kept in direct 
contact with ice. 

PoTatoe;s, carrots, turnips, and other root vege- 
tables last for several months at 40° F. and even 
longer if the temperature is maintained at the freezing 
point. 

Pkas, beans, spinach and other green or eEafy 
vegetables may last for 30 days at a temperature just 
above freezing. At higher temperatures they last for 
only a few days. 

If your ship does not have a chill room, put the 
fresh vegetables in a well- ventilated locker and pro- 
tect them as much as you can from heat. But don’t 
let them freeze. Sort through these vegetables often 
and throw out the spoiled ones in order to save the 
rest. 

Under the usual locker conditions, tomatoes may 
become overripe and soft in less than a day. Fresh 
peas and beans wilt and become tough in 24 to 36 
hours. Lettuce and spinach begin to get slimy, and 
corn on the cob toughens and dries out in two days. 
After four days, asparagus wilts and toughens, cauli- 
flower begins to decay; celery becomes wilted and 
stringy; and radishes get very woody. Eggplant lasts 
six days before it gets tough, and peppers soften up 
in about the same time. Turnips, cabbage, and carrots 
last 10 to IS days. Sweet potatoes keep for as long 
as 20 days, and Irish potatoes remain good for a 
month. 


MEAT AND POULTRY 

Frozen meat and poultry keep fairly well at tem- 
peratures as high as 20° F., but temperatures of 0° F. 
or below are much better. Meat and poultry will re- 
main good indefinitely if frozen solid. 

In hot weather, try to load frozen meat during the 
early morning or after sundown. Hang hard frozen 
beef quarters, sides of veal, etc. on rails. Pack them 


Digitized 


V Google 


45 

Original 1tDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



tightly, if necessary, but leave the wrappings on. 
Stack hard frozen packages or tins of meat any way 
that you find convenient. 

If the meat is already cut, thaw it as a part of the 
cooking process. Otherwise, thaw it slowly at tem- 
peratures just above freezing (32° to 40° F.). If 
large chunks of meat are thawed at a high tempera- 
ture, there is danger that the outside will begin to 
spoil before the inside is defrosted. Mtsit and fish 
should not be thawed by immersion in water because 
part of the taste and much of the food value are 
absorbed by the water. It takes from 12 to 24 hours 
to defrost poultry or fish. Beef quarters take from 36 
to 48 hours. 

Fresh, unfrozen meat stays good for only a few 
hours in the chill room. Beef lasts the longest. Use 
fresh pork, lamb, or veal promptly. Variety meats 
like liver, heart, and kidney do well if frozen but 
don’t keep long under ordinary refrigeration. Keep 
bacon, ham, and cured meats at from 0° to 45° F. 
At 45° F. they remain good from two to four months. 
At 0° F. they keep much longer. Smoked sausage does 
best at about 45° F. 


SEA FOOD 

Live OYSTERS in the shells last for about two months 
at 32° F. If you plan to use them in a week or two, 
pack them in cracked ice and put them in the chill 
room. Add ice as it melts. Lay the oysters with the 
deep shell down so that the liquid will not run out if 
the shell opens a little. Use oney eive oysters — that 
is, oysters with shells that are tightey closed. 

After the oysters have been taken out of the shells, 
keep them in tightly covered tin containers at a tem- 
perature of from 30° to 32° F. Use freshly shucked 
oysters within six days. You can purchase quick- 
frozen shucked oysters; if kept frozen they will last 
much longer than six days. 


46 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Lobsters, crabs, shrimps, and fish ought to be 
hard frozen if you intend to keep them for more than 
a few days. If possible, place them in a compartment 
where the temperature is below zero. 

OTHER THINGS 

Stow salt on dunnage in a dry place so that it 
won’t cake and harden. Salt keeps for a long time if 
you take proper care of it. 

Plan to keep cucumber pickles for nine months to 
a year only — they begin to get soft if kept longer. If 
they are in glass containers, keep them away from 
light or they’ll get discolored. 

Flavoring Extracts must be stored away from 
the light and in airtight containers. After several 
months they will begin to lose strength. 

It is essential to handle spices with care because 
damaged containers will admit a little air and the 
flavor will evaporate. Tin containers are best as paper 
containers absorb some of the oil in the spices. Insects 
thrive on some spices. 

Stow containers of vinegar in dry storerooms on 
racks at a temperature above 40® F. Keep them away 
from sacks of provisions. If “mother of vinegar” or 
the “vinegar eel” appear, remove it by filtering the 
vinegar through cheese cloth. Then heat the vinegar 
to 145® F. for 30 minutes. Seal it in sterilized con- 
tainers so that no air will get in. 

Keep MAYONNAISE, MUSTARD, SALAD DRESSING, 
TOMATO CATSUP, and CHILI SAUCE at a moderate tem- 
perature. These will remain in good shape for a year 
if handled right. Rough handling is particularly bad 
for mayonnaise. 

Put LARD and LARD SUBSTITUTES in a place where 
the temperature is around freezing. After lard has 
been softened by heat it is almost impossible to bring 
it back to normal consistency. Keep cooking and 
SALAD OILS in the same way — though they last longer 


Digitized 


V Google 


47 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



than lard. Stow on racks or gratings above the deck. 
Keep them away from provisions packed in sacks. 


DEHYDRATED PRODUCTS 

The chief advantage of dehydrated provisions is 
that large quantities can be stored in a small space. 
One ship loaded with dehydrated products caij carry 
as much as six loaded with regular provisions. (Fig- 
ure 10). 

SHIPPING SPACE REQUIRED 

FOR DEHYDRATED PROVISIONS 



SHIPPING SPACE REQUIRED 

FOR FRESH PROVISIONS, 


Figure 10.— Dehydrated vs. regular provisions. 


But — it isn’t just a matter of loading these dried 
provisions on the ship. The temperature of the stor- 
age space is extremely important. Dehydrated cab- 
bage lasts only three months if kept at a temperature 
of 98° F., but will last 15 months, or five times as long 
if kept around 60° F. The same is true for potatoes. 
All dehydrated foods last longer and keep better if 
they are kept in a cool place. Dehydrated foods must 
also be kept dry and insect-proof. 

48 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




CHAPTER 5 

ISSUE AND DISPOSAL OF PROVISIONS 

GETTING PROVISIONS INTO THE GALLEY* 

It takes 100 five-ton truck loads to provision one 
of your Navy’s new battlewagons. Where is all that 
stuff put? 

You’ve already learned that the canned goods and 
other dry provisions such as flour and sugar are 
stored in the bulk storeroom. The meats are placed 
in the cold storage compartments and the fresh fruit 
and vegetables are put in the vegetable lockers. 

How do all these provisions get from their storage 
places to the galley where they are to be used? The 
dry provisions are issued by the storekeeper in charge 
of the bulk storeroom to the jack of the: dust who 
is in charge of the issue room. The jack of the dust 
issues the dry provisions to the galley as needed. 

The SENIOR BUTCHER prepares and issues the meats 
directly from the cold storage compartment to the 
galley. The spud coxswain supplies the galley with 
fruits and vegetables taken from the fruit and vege- 
table lockers. Figure 1 1 shows how this works out. 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


49 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



The method of ordering provisions for the galley 
varies with different ships. Some kind of simple local 
FORM for listing the items needed is usually set up. 
This form is prepared each day by the cook in charge 
of the galley and approved by the chief commissary 
steward. In fact, the cook will need to fill out three 
lists — one for the meats, another for the dry provi- 
sions, and a third for fresh vegetables. These forms, 
often called work-sheets, are delivered to the senior 
butcher, the jack of the dust, and the spud coxswain 






ISSUE ROOM 




FRUIT AND VEGETABLE 
LOCKER 



Figure II. — How provisions get to the galley. 


in plenty of time to get everything ready. In the case 
of frozen meats, enough time must be allowed for 
the meats to be properly thawed. 

HOW MUCH SHALL BE ORDERED 

How does the cook in the galley know what and 
how much to order? The kind of provisions ordered 
depends on the menu for the day as set up in the 
weekly bill-of-fare. 

The AMOUNT ordered depends upon the number of 
men to be fed in the general mess. 

Suppose the menu calls for Salisbury steaks. The 
first thing to do is to look up the recipe for Salisbury 


50 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 





steak in your Navy Cook Book. It will tell you that 
you need 31 pounds of boneless beef to feed 100 men. 
But you’re only feeding 25 men. So a little simple 
arithmetic is necessary — 25/100 is Ya. Therefore, you 
need K of 31 pounds of beef. And — 

M X 31 = 31/4 = 1 % lbs. 

The amount needed is over 7 pounds, so you order 
8 pounds. 

But — suppose 58. men eat in your general mess. 
What then? When the number cannot be changed to 
a simple, easy-to-handle fraction, do the problem this 
way — 

Multiply the number oe men to be fed by the 
RECIPE AMOUNT — ^like this — 

58 X 31 = 1,798 

Then place a decimal point in front of the second 
number from the right — thus, in this case, 17.98. 
Make it 18 pounds of boneless beef on your order. 

If this arithmetic bothers you, get a copy of the 
Basic Navy Training Course, Mathematics and study 
the sections on fractions and decimals. 

ANOTHER EXAMPLE 

The menu calls for buttered fresh peas. This time 
you are going to serve 171 men. How much will you 
order ? 

The Navy Cook Book recipe indicates that 60 
pounds of peas are needed for 100 portions. Multiply 
the number of men to be fed by the 60 pounds — like 
this — 

171 X 60 = 10,260 

Place a decimal point in front of the second num- 
ber from the right — and you have 102.60. So — order 
103 pounds of peas from the spud coxswain, who will 
see that the peas are shelled and prepared for use. 


Digitized 


V Google 


51 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



STILL ANOTHER CASE 


An additional step in arithmetic is necessary if 
your general mess feeds more than 500 men. Suppose 
you need to prepare salmon salad for 637 men. The 
recipe calls for 20 No. 1 tall cans of salmon for 100 
portions. Proceed as before. Multiply — 

637 X 20 = 12,740 

Place a decimal point in front, of the second num- 
ber from the right. This gives you 127.40. Now for 
the additional step. For messes feeding between 500 
and 1,000 men, you have to reduce the amount thus 
determined by 5 percent. Do it like this — 

Write 5 percent as a decimal (.05), and multiply 
the number of cans by .05. Thus — 

127.40 X .05 = 6.3700 

Note that the decimal point is now in front of the 
fourth number from the right. Next, drop. the last 
two numbers, and subtract the 6.37 from 127.40. Like 
this — 


127.40 

— 6.37 

121.03 

Order 121 of the No. 1 tall cans. Get them from the 
jack of the dust. 

A FINAL PROBLEM 

The menu calls for fried liver. There are 1,238 men 
to be fed. How much liver is needed? According to 
the recipe, 35 pounds are needed for 100 men. So, you 
multiply — 

1,238 X 35 = 43,330 


52 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Now place a decimal point in front of the second num- 
ber from the right, and get 433.30. 

But for messes over 1,000 men, the figure deter- 
mined in this manner must be reduced by 10 percent. 
It is done this way — write 10 percent as a decimal 
(.10), and multiply — 

433.30 X .10 = 43.3300 

Again you will have tour numbers to the right of 
the decimal point. 

Next drop the last two numbers and subtract — 

433.30 
— 43.33 

389.97 

So you order 390 pounds of liver from the senior 
butcher. 


WHATS THE COST 

You may have to assist the chief commissary stew- 
ard in figuring the costs of the food used. Here’s what 
you do — 

Multiply the unit cost oT each item by the num- 
ber OF UNITS used. For example, if boneless beef costs 
$.146 per pound and you used 22 pounds you can find 
the ToTAE cost by multiplying these two figures to- 
gether. 

$.146 
X 22 


292 

292 

$S^2 


The total cost is $3.21. Show the answer through 
only two numbers to the right of the decimal point. If 


Digitized 


V Google 


63 

Original frsm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



the third figure to the right of the decimal is 5 or 
more, add one to the second figure and drop the third. 
If the third figure is less than 5, cross it out and forget 
about it. Thus, $4,278 is written $4.28; and $4,273 is 
written $4.27. 


RATION COSTS PER MAN 

A ration is the food fed to one man in one day (3 
meals). Each ship is allowed to spend only a certain 
amount for a ration. It is necessary to compute the 
cost of rations every day in order to keep within the 
limit of the ration cost. Consult Chapter 13 of the 
BiiSandA Manual if you need to know the various 
ration costs allowed. 

To find the ration cost, determine the total cost of 
all the provisions used during the day. This is done 
by adding together all the costs of provisions issued. 
Then, divide this total by the number of men in the 
mess. 

For example, suppose that aboard your ship on a 
certain day you fed 69 men and the total cost of all 
the provisions used was $59.85. You find the ration 
cost by dividing $59.85 by 69. Here it is — 

$ .86739 

69) $59.85 
55 2 

4 65 
414 


510 

483 

207 


630 

621 

'~9 


54 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Carry your answer to five decimal places. Then 
round it off to four places. The answer in this problem 
is $.8674. 

Note:: General messes at most shore stations oper- 
ate on a different plan. They use a ration in kind 
instead of a money ration. “In kind” means food. 
This ration in kind must conform to the Navy Ration 
listed on page 74 of this book. It is discussed more 
completely in Chapter 13 of the BuSandA Manual. 

ISSUE ROOM RECORDS 


For convenience in record keeping and handling, 
only a relatively small quantity of provisions is kept 
on hand in the issue room. Nevertheless, the jack of 


e. Mftd A. ^orm ill 

STOCK TALLY CAltD 

Stock No. - - — 

Articto SMSA&«..afelt<»LflSSlj 

— Refined (Tn» 1) Gran 

L.OW limit _15 j 0Q0. Unit __ _I*b, . . 


ImamA 

Mmw* 

RM3«iV«l 

Imuad 


ElE..... 


ZAaoo.. 



n/t 

..lAQQ... 

.ZAAe.0. 




nU 


.3LVL«. 




mi 

--iseiQ... 

.2,^ao. 




rUio 

...AOik.. 

.2X2J1Q. 




nHJL. . 

„AQoa... 






...ZOOft.. 

...liOA.. 

TVlft-0- 




— 

IRQ0Q 

.nilft... 



1 













1 





! 































i 





1 ... 1... 














! 



1 

I! 



i 

.! i‘ 



1 

1 









.. 

. 





! 








4-74M torwmtd 


Figure 12. — Stock tally card. 


the dust must be sure that he is able to meet all the 
demands made by the galley. 


Digitized 


V Google 


55 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




A STOCK TALLY CARD System is sometimes used to 
help the jack of the dust keep track of the provisions 
he has on hand and what he needs to order. These 
stock tally cards must be used in the bulk storeroom. 
Look at figure 12. 

The stock number is the Standard Stock Catalog 
number. Notice that the description of the article is 
complete. The low limit refers to the smallest quantity 
that should ever be on hand. When this low limit is 
approached, more of the article should be ordered. 

The arithmetic involved is simple. When provisions 
are received, indicate the amount received in the re- 
ceived column and add this amount to the previous 
balance to get the new balance. When provisions are 
issued, indicate the amount issued in the issued col- 
umn and subtract this amount from the last balance to 
get the new balance. All you need be able to do is add 
and subtract. Check the addition and subtraction in 
figure 12. 

ORDERING FROM BULK STOREROOM 

Under normal conditions, bulk storerooms are 
Naval Stock Account storerooms — the provisions put 
in them are paid for out of the Naval Stock Fund — 
these provisions are charged against the ship only 
after they are issued for use. 

To eliminate paper work during war, the ship is 
charged with the provisions as soon as they are put 
in the storerooms of the ship. In either case, the job 
of ordering and getting provisions by the jack of the 
dust is the same. 

Provisions are ordered from the bulk storeroom on 
the STUB REQUISITION, S. and A. Form No. 307. 
Notice how the sample of this form shown in figure 
13 is filled in. 

The 7-45 in the upper right hand corner indicates 
that this stub requisition is the seventh one written 
for the issue room since 1 July 1945. Stub requisitions 
are numbered in order beginning with the first one 
written each 1 July. 


56 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



J. F. Jones, the chief commissary steward, signed 
the requisition by authority of the supply officer. The 
number and description of the sugar ordered is found 
in the Standard Stock Catalog which is available in 
the supply office. 


N. 

•• Tw Stub Requisition 

n R R CALIFORNIA 15 July _ _ ifi45 

To Supply Officer: Request folIoRriog stores bo delivered to*beaTor for use in the 
Department, provisions Issue Roo« 

V ^ By a^Uhoruy oj Head 0 / Department. 

0T.ws.aD Stocx Cmtawo 
Ma OB CL.M No. 

DKSCIUPTION or ARTICLK 

QcmTTT 

Raocnaao 

CWIT Of 

Qo.wtitt 

Owir ^aiTB 

Extbnbion 

56-S33550 

SUGAR, IVhite, Hard 







Refined (TL'T* D Gran (Class-1) 

'2000 

















— 

— 



















Received the above material. 

Isanan by: . ^ 

U. S. N. AUotL 

Total.... 



on Ledger, ^ 

nt charged, 


Figure 13. — Stub requisition. 


The signature of S. Sawyer indicates he received 
the provisions from the bulk storeroom. The signa- 
ture of F. L. Wise, SK 3c indicates he was in charge 
of the bulk storeroom when the provisions were with- , 
drawn. The rest of the form is filled in later by a 
storekeeper. 


SALES TO MESSES 

Special messes for officers are set up aboard ship — 
the number depending on the size of the ship. The 
flagships of the fleet have a flag officers’ mess, a cabin 
mess, a wardroom mess, a junior officers’ mess, and a 
chief petty officers’ mess. Where do these messes get 
their provisions? 

They may buy provisions wherever they wish. Your 
only interest in them is when they buy from the stock 
of provisions belonging to the general mess. Article 


Digitized by 


Google 


57 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 








1408 of Navy Regulations gives them this right under 
certain conditions. 

Sales to special messes must be approved by the 
commanding officer after the supply officer has deter- 
mined that the provisions can be spared without un- 
duly reducing the quantities for general mess issue. 
The sslles are to be made at regular cost price. Deliv- 
eries will be made only at the regular times and places 
of issue. 

As far as possible, fresh meats are to be sold in 
original pieces — ^beef in quarters, veal in sides, and 
lamb in carcasses. If for any reason this is not prac- 
ticable, sales are to be made in as large quantities as 
possible. Tables are published in Chapter 13 of the 
BuSandA Memoranda showing the percentage of the 
quarters, sides, and carcasses of certain cuts of beef, 
lamb, and veal, together with the percentage of the 
average cost price to be charged for these cuts. 

Sales of frozen beef to special messes should be 
made in unbroken packages if possible. Each special 
mess should be charged with the appropriate percent 
of the average cost price. This percent is also found 
in Chapter 13 of the BuSandA Memoranda. For ex- 
ample, beef, fresh frozen, boneless to be used for 
ROASTING or FRYING is worth 145 percent of the aver- 
age cost price. Beef, fresh frozen, boneless to be used 
for GROUND bfFF is worth only 55 percent of the aver- 
age cost price. 

Suppose the average cost of beef, fresh frozen, 
boneless is $.26 per lb. The roasting and frying beef 
must then be sold for .26 X 1.45 = $.377 per lb. 
Look — 

1.45 (145%) 

.26 


870 

290 

.3770 


58 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



The ground beef meat must be sold for .26 X .55 = 
$.143 per lb. Look again — 

.55 ( 55 %) 

.26 

330 

110 

.1430 

A special mess must buy equal amounts of the 
various types of meat cuts. It is not allowed to buy 
only the preferred cuts — the poor must be taken with 
the good. This is true of both fresh and frozen meats. 

Sales to a special mess at a shore station within the 
continental limits of the United States can be made 
only after approval by the Bureau of Supplies and 
Accounts. This bureau can also authorize the furnish- 
ing of meals by the general mess to officers at shore 
stations where officers’ messes are not maintained. * 

Provisions are ordered by a special mess on stub 
requisitions like the one shown in figure 13. These 
requisitions are made out in duplicate. The originals 
are kept in the issue room or in the supply office. They 
furnish a day to day record of the sales to special 
messes. At the end of the month, the requisitions are 
totalled and the ration vouche^r and statement oi^ 
SATES TO MESS is prepared. This statement informs 
the treasurer of the special mess how much is owed 
for provisions bought during the month. The treasur- 
ers of the special messes must pay their bills promptly 
at the end of the month. 

SURVEYS 

You have been told to be on the lookout for spoiled 
provisions. But what happens when you find some? 

First of all, take immediate steps to see that spoiled 
provisions are not used. Lay them aside or mark them 
somehow so there will be no mistake. Next, notify 
your superior. If he agrees that the provisions are no 

739872°— 47 5 

Digitized by Google 


59 

Original 1tDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



good, he will see that a request for a survey is made. 
The captain always appoints some officer, probably 
the medical or junior medical officer, as surveying 
officer for provisions. This officer makes a careful in- 
spection, and then indicates whether or not the goods 
can be destroyed. 

Every item of provisions surveyed and disposed of 
is promptly recorded. The record shows the exact 
quantity, condition, cause, responsibility and disposi- 
tion of the items. Each entry is signed in ink by the 
surveying officer, who also indicates his rank and title. 

If the provisions to be surveyed are worth more 
than $100, the commanding officer may appoint a sur- 
vey board of three officers to conduct the survey. This 
board makes its report to the commanding officer who 
approves or disapproves the findings. The supply offi- 
cer is then notified and he handles the surveyed items 
according to the captain’s wishes. 

GETTING RID OF THE GARBAGE 

Aboard ship, the first lieutenant is responsible for 
disposing of the garbage. At shore stations, it is the 
commissary officer’s responsibility. Some ships have 
slop chutes, down which the garbage is poured; on 
other ships, the garbage must be tossed over the side. 
In danger areas, such disposal is always made at night. 

In port, where the disposal of the garbage in this 
manner would be a menace to the health of the people 
living nearby, the garbage must be burned or disposed 
of in some other way that will cause no harm. 

In all ports regularly visited by ships of the fleet, 
contracts are made with local concerns for the dis- 
posal of the garbage in a clean, efficient manner. 


60 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




CHAPTER 6 

food— WHAT IT IS 

FULL SPEED AHEAD 

Remember those week-end trips to the seashore, the 
mountains, or to the city? Everything was swell until 
the engine in your car began to miss and finally 
stopped. What did you do? Looked for a gas station, 
of course. 

Just as your car needs gasoline and oil in order to 
run, so does your body need food in order to function. 
But food isn’t quite as uniform in standard as gaso- 
line. There are many kinds of food and your body is 
particular about the kind it gets. 

For example, foods like bread and potatoes will 
provide you with a great deal of energy whereas meat 
and cheese will help you to rebuild and repair worn 
out tissues. You’ll also need certain vitamins and min- 
erals in order to keep in ship-shape condition — to help 
you fight sickness, an enemy that kills more men than 
guns ever kill. You — and all the men aboard — must 
have the right quantities and the right combina- 
tions of food, so that you will be ready in an emer- 
gency to work efficiently at high speed. 


Digitized by 


Google 


61 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



HOW MUCH FOOD 

Gasoline^ — the food for your car — is measured by 
the gallon. Food for your body is measured by the 
CALORIE. The calorie is a way of measuring the heat 
and energy value of food. A pint of milk contains 3 1 3 
calories — a pint of beer has 230. The fatty foods are 
richest in calories — one pound of butter contains 
3,225 calories. 

The number of calories you need depends on both 
the type of work you’re doing and your physical 
makeup. Thus, a man doing desk work may need only 
2,500 calories a day — a man performing active ship- 
board duties may need about 3,000 calories a day — 
and a man taking boot training may need 3,400 calo- 
ries of food per day. Also a 200-pound sailor may 
need 700 calories per day more than a 125-pound 
sailor. 

But REMEMBER, if you follow the suggestions for 
menu planning given in your Navy Cook Book and in 
Chapter 7 of this book, you won’t need to take time 
to count calories in your menus. These menus auto- 
matically provide the right amount of calories. 


THE RIGHT COMBINATIONS 

It is more difficult to determine the right combina- 
tions than it is to determine the correct quantities 
of food. 

In a well-balanced diet, from 55 percent to 70 per- 
cent of the food calories should be provided by carbo- 
hydrates; from 20 percent to 30 percent should come 
from fats; and from 10 percent to 15 percent should 
come from proteins. Figure 14 gives you an idea of 
how these amounts compare with each other. 

A healthy sailor must have enough of each of the 
three types mentioned as each type serves a different 


62 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



purpose. He’ll also need a sufficient supply of vita- 
mins and mine;rats. 

Most foods contain all these necessary elements in 
a greater or lesser amount. Some foods are rich in 
nearly all of them. One day you might serve potatoes 
to furnish the necessary carbohydrates, and on an- 
other day, let bread and butter fulfill this requirement. 



Figure 14. — Proper food combinations. 

Now — what are these proteins, carbohydrates, fats, 
vitamins, and minerals? 

PROTEINS AND MINERALS— THE BUILDER UPPERS 

Proteins are the builder uppers of your muscles 
and other soft tissues of your body. They also lend a 
hand in providing energy and in aiding digestion. 
They provide an important part of the blood. In fact, 
the proteins affect most of the body functions in one 
way or another. 

How are you going to provide the necessary 
amounts of protein? Take a look at figure 15. 


Digitized 


V Google 


63 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Meat is an excellent source of proteins, as are milk, 
eggs, fresh fish, and poultry. And American cheese 
contains more protein per pound than any other food. 



Figure 15. — Muscle builders. 


Soy beans are good sources of protein and Navy beans 
and peas contain large amounts of this food element. 



Figure 16. — Bone and teeth builders. 


Cai^cium and phosphorus are mine:rals much 
needed by your bones and teeth to make and keep 
them strong and healthy. 

64 

Digitized bv GOi>Qle Origiialfrom i 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA J 



Milk, cheese, fish, green leafy vegetables, and bread 
are excellent providers of these minerals (figure 16 ). 

IRON 

A little IRON is needed in the blood of every sailor. 
Iron builds up the red coloring matter in your blood 
and enables that blood to carry oxygen to all parts of 
your body. Without this oxygen in your body, you 
could not live. 

Eggs are the best iron providers. Lean meat, espe- 
cially liver, beet greens, dried beans and peas, and 
oatmeal are also good sources of iron (figure 17 ). 



Figure 17. — Iron. 


Some IODINE is needed to keep the thyroid gland 
operating properly. (Your thyroid gland is in your 
throat — it affects growth, excessive fatness and, in 
extreme cases, mental balance.) Iodine is provided in 
the iodized salt used by the Navy. About V2. ounce of 
salt per day is needed by every sailor. If you are 
sweating a good deal, you need about twice this 
amount. Use plenty of salt during the hot weather. 
Salt tablets may be available to help provide the extra 
amount needed. 


Digitized by 


Google 


65 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



THE ENERGY FOODS 


Carbohydrate:s and fats furnish most of the food 
needed for energy. These foods give the men pep and 
fit them for a good day’s work. 

White potatoes provide much of the needed carbo- 
hydrates although there are other foods that contain 
more carbohydrates per serving — sweet potatoes or 
peas, for example. Bread and breakfast cereals are 
good carbohydrate providers as are honey, sirups, 
candy, jams, and ice cream. Fruits contribute their 
share also, especially bananas, grapefruit, dried dates, 
figs, and prunes (figure 18 ). 



Figure 18 . — Carbohydrate foods. 


Fats provide fuel for immediate use as well as to 
build up a reserve energy supply. Fatty foods also 
keep the men from feeling hungry for a considerable 
period after they have eaten. 

Bacon and other fatty meats are excellent sources 
of fat. Milk, butter, eggs, lard, peanuts, soy beans, 
and salad dressings are other good sources (figure 
19 ). 


66 

Digitized by Got,»gle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Figure 19. — Fats. 


VITAMINS— THE DISEASE FIGHTERS 

Ever wonder why British sailors are called 
“limeys?” Around about the year 1600, the British 
discovered that juices of oranges, lemons and limes 
prevented scurvy — a dread disease at one time preva- 
lent in all the navies of the world. Hence a ration of 
lime juice became part of the daily diet of every 
British sailor. Scurvy soon disappeared from the Brit- 
ish fleet, but the name “limeys” lingered on. The 
British didn’t know it then, but it is the vitamin C in 
citrus fruits that prevents scurvy. Other vitamins are 
helpful in preventing various diseases and weaknesses. 
You’ll want to know something about these useful 
vitamins. 

Certain vitamins are destroyed if the food is not 
prepared properly and carefully. For example, vege- 
tables lose very little of their vitamin and mineral 
content if cooked by steam. If you plan to cook vege- 
tables in water, they should be cooked only long 
enough to make them tender — and use the smallest 
possible amount of water. Heat salted water to a boil- 
ing temperature before you add the vegetables so they 
won’t need to be in the water very long. 


Digitized by 


Google 


67 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




Grate or chop vegetables for salads just before 
they are to be served. As far as vitamins are con- 
cerned, the larger the chunks the better. Let the men 
do a bit of chewing. It’s good for them. 

If the salads are allowed to stand exposed to the 
air before being served, many of the vitamins will be 
destroyed. The same is true for hot foods that are * 
prepared too early. 

VITAMIN A— THE GOOD EYESIGHT VITAMIN 

Give the men plenty of butter, liver, cheese, eggs, 
yellow fruits, and green vegetables. These foods are 
rich in vitamin A. Variety foods like giblets and kid- 
neys also are a good source for this vitamin (figure 
20 ). 



Figure 20. — Vitamin A sources. 


Vitamin A helps keep ycur eyesight sharp, particu- 
larly your night vision. It also does much to keep you 
in good health. 

THE VITAMIN B FAMILY 

All the B vitamins dissolve in water. Save all your 
cooking waters. Use them in soups or gravies so that 




the vitamins and minerals in the water will not be 
entirely lost. 



Figure 21. — ^Thiamin suppliers. 


Thiamin is the pep vitamin of the “B family.” It 
gives the men good appetites so they can really appre- 
ciate your cooking. Good sources of thiamin are liver, 
heart, kidney, yeast, bread, pork, beans, peas, whole 
grain breakfast cereals, and eggs (figure 21). 

Thiamin is the vitamin most easily lost when meals 
are over-cooked. 



Figure 22. — Sources of niacin. 


Niacin, another B vitamin, keeps the men free 
from pellagra — a nervous or gastrointestinal disease 

69 


Digitized by 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



that is prevalent among those who live on corn bread 
and sow belly. Supply niacin by feeding the men meat, 
fish, whole grain bread, and vegetables (figure 22). 

VITAMIN C— THE SAILORS' VITAMIN 

Vitamin C helps make good teeth and gums. It 
fights infections in cuts and bruises and speeds up the 
healing of wounds. And, as you already know, vitamin 
C prevents scurvy. 

Furnish a good supply of this vitamin by serving 
raw tomatoes, steamed or boiled potatoes, salads, and 
fresh fruits. The peelings of the citrus fruits have 



Figure 23. — ^Vitamin C foods. 


about five times as much vitamin C as the insides. 
That makes marmalade a good source of this vitamin. 
Green leafy vegetables, melons, strawberries, peppers, 
and radishes also contain large amounts of vitamin C. 

In a pinch, sprouted soy beans or any sprouted 
grain can be used to supply a limited quantity of 
vitamin C — at least enough to keep a person from 
becoming seriously ill (figure 23). Tea made from 
pine or other evergreen needles will do the same job 
in an emergency. 


70 


Digitized by 


Goiigle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



RIBOFLAVIN— THE ALL AROUND VITAMIN 

Riboflavin is needed for proper growth. It prevents 
nervous depressions,- general weakness, and poor con- 
dition of the eyes and skins. 

Riboflavin is present in large quantities in milk and 
eggs. It is also found in liver, yeast, bread, and 
greens (figure 24). 



Figure 24. — Riboflavin in these. 

Riboflavin is easily destroyed. It dissolves readily in 
water and is injured by light. 

WATER AND ROUGHAGE 

In a way, water is more important than food. 
People have lived several weeks without food. With- 
out water, they die in a few days. In fact, three- 
fourths of your body is water — believe it or not. 


L 



Figure 25. — Roughage. 

Roughagk aids the intestines in carrying off waste 
matter thus preventing constipation. Leafy vegetables 
(cabbage and lettuce), fruits, and whole grain bread 
are best for this work (figure 25). 


‘Digitized bfy 


Google 


71 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 


Digitized by 


Goiigle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




CHAPTER 7 


MENU PLANNING 


WHAT DO WE EAT? 

“When do we eat?” The skipper settles that ques- 
tion on board ship. But you may have a much harder 
question to answer. “What do we eat?” In fact, you 
must prepare an answer to the question even before 
it is asked as you will have to make up the weekly 
bill-of-fare a week in advance. 

The men aboard ship must have a well-balanced 
diet or they will become sluggish and unhealthy. How 
can you provide this well-balanced diet ? By providing 
enough of the different types of food mentioned in 
Chapter 6 to meet all the requirements of the body. 
These types include body building foods, such as 
meats and eggs — and heat and energy chow, such as 
sugar and potatoes. Also, foods containing an ade- 
quate supply of the different minerals and vitamins 
must be included in the ration. 


Digitized tjy v 


Google 


73 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



THE NAVY RATION 

The Navy Ration was set up to insure that each 
sailor is fed a well-balanced diet. It indicates what 
should be fed each sailor in one day. 

During the war emergency, this ration is not a 
requirement on all ships or stations, but it still fur- 
nishes a good example of a well-balanced diet. Use it 
as a guide in planning your menu. Here’s the way it 
appears in the BuSandA Manual — 


BREAD 

MEAT 


VEGETABLES 


FRUIT 


COFFEE 

MILK 

BUTTER 

CEREALS 

CHEESE 

EGGS 

LARD 

SAUCES 

SUGAR 

AS REQUIRED 


12 ounces soft bread or flour or 8 ounces 
biscuit. 

12 ounces preserved meat or 14 ounces 
salt or smoked meat or 20 ounces fresh 
meat or fresh fish or fresh poultry. 

12 ounces dried vegetables or 18 ounces 
canned vegetables or 44 ounces fresh 
vegetables. 

4 ounces dried or 10 ounces canned or 6 
ounces preserved or 16 ounces fresh, 
or *6 ounces canned fruit or vegetable 
juices or 1 ounce of powdered fruit 
juices or 6/10 of an ounce of concen- 
trated fruit juices. 

2 ounces of coffee or cocoa or ^ ounce tea. 

Y 2 pint fresh or 1 ounce powdered or 4 
ounces evaporated. 

1.6 ounces. 

1.6 ounces cereals or rice or starch foods. 

Yz ounce. 

1.2 per day. 

1.6 ounces lard or lard substitute. 

2/5 gill oils or sauces or vinegar. 

5 ounces. 

baking powder and soda, flavoring ex- 
tracts, mustard, pepper, pickles, salt, 
sirup, spices, and yeast. 


THE NAVY COOK BOOK PLAN 

The Navy Cook Book gives another guide for menu 
planning. In it, foods are divided into basic classes — 
milk products, eggs, butter, meat, poultry or fish, 
legumes, cereals and bread, fruits and vegetables. 


74 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



The stated amounts refer to what should be given 
ONK sailor in one: day. You may find this plan easier 
to follow than the Navy Ration. Here’s the way it 
works out — 

One pint of mii,k per day should be provided. 
This can be fresh, evaporated, or dehydrated. It can 
be used in cooking or served as a drink. Occasionally, 
cheese may be used in place of milk. Two and one- • 
half ounces of American cheddar cheese are about 
equal in mineral and protein content to one pint of 
milk. 

An e:gg a day is a good rule to follow. Eggs may 
be fresh, frozen, or dehydrated. They are especially 
valuable for their protein, mineral, and vitamin A 
content. 

Furnish part of the requirement of fat and vitamin 
A by serving 1 to 2 ounces of butte^r daily. 

One or more servings of me:at, E'ish, or Bowi, will 
help provide the daily requirement of necessary pro- 
teins, minerals, thiamin, and riboflavin. 

The i.e:gume:s include dried beans — kidney, lime, 
and Navy — and dried peas. All of these are important 
sources of proteins, minerals, and thiamin. The legu- 
mes are not as complete a protein as meat, so serve 
them as a supplement to the meat ration once or 
twice a week — never use them as a substitute for meat. 

Two — or more — servings of cereals and bre;ad 
are necessary every day. The cereals should be whole 
grain or have whole grain value. These cereals and 
bread made of enriched flour are excellent sources 
of energy, protein, bulk, and minerals, as well as the 
B vitamins. 

Two — or more — servings of Bruit daily are neces- 
sary. Fruits supply vitamins, minerals, and bulk. 
Use citrus fruits, such as oranges or grapefruit, 
often because they are two of the best sources of 
vitamin C. If possible, serve at least onb fresh fruit. 

739872“ — 47 6 

Digitized by Google 


76 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Otherwise, fruits may be frozen, canned, dried, or 
dehydrated. 

Plan to use at least two servings of vegetables 
besides potatoes. Prepare at least one green or yel- 
low vegetable each day — they supply vitamin A and 
iron. Greens, either cooked or in salads, should be 
served often. The same is true of tomatoes. The 
. tomatoes are especially valuable for their vitamin C 
content. 


WHAT PROVISIONS ARE AVAILABLE 

Be sure of what you have aboard before you plan 
a menu. For example, it would be foolish to plan to 
serve strawberries if no strawberries are available. 
And, even if strawberries are available, they may 
be too expensive to use. Also, limits are placed on 
the amounts you can spend each day for food. These 
limits apply to all shipboard general messes. The 
daily allowances vary from 60 cents per day per 
man for a ship with over 1,000 men eating in the 
■ general mess to 89 cents per man for a ship with 
less than 26 men. These amounts are subject to change 
so the exact amount for each size ship is not given 
here. Consult chapter 26 of the BuSandA Manual 
or chapter 13 of the BuSandA Memoranda to find 
the limit for your ship. An extra 5 cents per day 
per man is added for ships and stations beyond the 
continental limits of the United States. Submarines 
are allowed 10 cents extra per day per man and 
newly commissioned ships may use an additional 5 
cents per day per man for 30 days from the time it 
opens its general mess. 

The season of the year also effects the menu both 
in the type of foods that are available and in the types 
of foods best to eat. During the hot summer months, 
give the men a liberal amount of cold plates, salads, 
berries, fresh vegetables, and fruits, light desserts, 
and cold drinks. During the cold winter months, be 


76 

Digitized by Got^igle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIF. 0^- 1 



sure to use hot soups, roasts, creamed dishes, starchy 
vegetables, heavy puddings and desserts, and hot 
drinks. 

MAKE 'EM LIKE IT 

It has been said, “you can lead a horse to water 
but you can’t make him drink.” Well, you can provide 
a well-balanced meal for your mess but you can’t 
make the men eat it. They may not like it. And 
you’ll soon find out about that. Good tasty meals are 
taken for granted by the men. That’s human nature. 

Any cook might occasionally serve a meal that 
isn’t liked. But the good cook will find out what’s 
wrong about it — and he won’t make the same mis- 
take twice. 

How can you make ’em like it? 

An attractive coeor scheme will help. Color con- 
trasts that you get with white mashed potatoes, 
brown gravy, and green peas are excellent. Avoid 
having too many things, of about the same color in 
any one meal. White potatoes, white cauliflower, and 
a white pudding appear very uninteresting. Salads 
made of fresh vegetable or fruit or of combinations 
of fruit and vegetables provide good color contrasts. 

Feavor is important. Again, contrasts are neces- 
sary. Foods that have contrasting flavors tempt the 
appetite. The use of sour or sweet pickles, chili sauce, 
and other condiments help provide these contrasts. 

The AROMAS of eggs frying and cofifee boiling put 
men in the right mood for eating and help start the 
day right. Much of what you normally think of as 
taste is really smell. Do everything you can to make 
the odor of the food agreeable. 

Contrasts in the form and texture of the chow 
make it more appetizing. Have some of the food 
solid and some in liquid form. Lima beans and stewed 
tomatoes set each other off effectively. Baked lima 
beans and baked potatoes make a combination that 
is unattractive in both appearance and palatability. 


Digitized 


V Google 


77 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Variety is the spice of life — so you’ve heard. It 
is just as important in cooking. Anyone gets tired 
of eating the same kind of food over and over again 
no matter how good that food tasted the first time. 
And the men don’t want to know in advance that 
they’ll have hash every Tuesday morning or fried 
fish EVERY Friday evening. 

Give them pleasant surprises. Make use of as many 
different kinds of foods as possible. Sometimes you 
don’t have to change things very much. The whole 
meal may seem different if you merely change one 
vegetable. And you can get all kinds of variations 
by changing the method of preparation. Take pota- 
toes, for instance. They can be served cooked with 
jackets on, mashed, creamed, baked, roast browned, 
home fried, hash browned, parsleyed, au gratin, escal- 
loped, French-fried, or stuffed and baked. You can 
probably add other ways to this list. 

Now for some individual meal planning — 

BREAKFAST 

Start the day off right by serving fruit — fresh, 
if possible. Apples, pears, or melons are good. Citrus 
fruits — oranges or grapefruit — should be used often. 
Fruit juices can be used to advantage as alternatives. 

Some kind of cereal is next in order. Cereals are 
fuel and energy foods and a source of minerals and 
vitamins. They also serve as carriers for another 
important food — milk. Serve hot or cold cereals 
depending on the supply, the climate, the likes and dis- 
likes of the men, or the need for variety. When dry 
cereals are used, make several different kinds avail- 
able so the men can select the brand they wish. 

Provide milk and hot coffee every day. Variety in 
the bread ration can be obtained by serving toast, 
hot-cakes, rolls, muffins, hot biscuits, or French toast. 
The addition of jams, jellies, or sirups to any of these 
makes them more attractive. 


78 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



The main dish for breakfast may be eggs one 
day, and hot cakes and sausage the next. When you 
serve eggs a second time, prepare them in a different 
manner. Other good breakfast dishes for active sail- 
ors are hash, fried mush, baked beans, and fried 
potatoes. Combinations of ham and eggs, bacon and 
eggs, or sausage and eggs are good, but the cost is 
so high they can’t be served very often. Eggs can 
be combined with hash, or sausage combined with 
hot cakes without excessive cost. 


DINNER 

Noon chow is usually the main meal aboard ship. 
Soup may be served at either the noon or evening 
meal — whichever one needs that little extra some- 
thing to make the meal complete. Make a well- 
seasoned soup. If the meal is heavy, make the soup 
light. If the meal is light, serve a heavy soup. When 
a vegetable soup is used, you may omit the salad from 
the meal if you wish. Soup is one way of getting men 
to eat a sufficient quantity of vegetables. 

Make the noon meat dish the main meat dish for 
the day. Roast beef or veal, baked ham, or broiled 
steaks ought to be served as frequently as possible. 
Sea foods or poultry may be used for variation. Fish 
may be used any day, although tradition calls for its 
use on Friday. Plan to use gravy or sauce with most 
meats. But be sure you make a good, well-seasoned 
gravy. 

Potatoes are the main carbohydrate dish. Plan to 
prepare them in different ways. Alternate dishes, 
commonly used, are beans — ^white, lima, or kidney — 
rice, noodles, hominy, sweet potatoes, and spaghetti. 

Include a leafy vegetable, such as spinach or broc- 
coli, and one other vegetable, such as carrots or peas. 

A green salad may be substituted for the leafy 
vegetable. It is well to serve salads frequently. A 
great variety of salads can be made from all types 


Digitized 


V Google 


79 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



of vegetables. Once in a while, you can replace the 
salad with radishes, celery, olives, and pickles. 

Desserts are used to top off the meal and to leave 
the men with “that satisfied” feeling. Sherbet is inex- 
pensive and popular during the hot months. By mak- 
ing bread pudding for dessert, any leftover bread can 
be used — ^but don’t overdo it. Other puddings are also 
good. And give the bakers a chance to provide good 
tasty pies, cakes, and pastries for dessert. Fruits can 
also be used to advantage. Cottage cheese and pine- 
apple or fruit salads may be used as desserts. 

Serve a hot drink during the winter, and hot and 
cold drinks on alternate days during the summer. 

Occasionally serve hot rolls or corn bread in place 
of ordinary bread. 

SUPPER 

In the tropics — or for variety in any climate — 
make supper the main meal. On such occasions, the 
dinner suggestions apply also for supper. 

Ordinarily, however, you can use low cost cuts 
of meats for supper. Make hamburgers, stews, or 
meat balls. Break the monotony occasionally by using 
chops or fried chicken. Macaroni au gratin, chop 
suey, chili con came, or creamed fish are often used in 
place of the meat dish. The supper meal is also a good 
time to use leftovers from dinner. Make leftovers 
attractive in appearance and appetizing to the taste. 
If possible, plan to change them completely so they 
won’t be recognized as leftovers. Combinations such 
as rice and stewed tomatoes, carrots and peas, cooked 
vegetables made into a salad, and meat and potatoes 
made into hash are a few examples of how leftover 
food may be used. 

Potatoes need not be served as often for supper 
as for noon chow. Instead, use rice, spaghetti, or 
some of the other starch dishes. Bring in root vege- 
tables such as carrots frequently. Leafy vegetables 


80 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



and green salads should be used — especially if none 
was served for dinner. 

Ginger bread or similar hot breads — with a sauce, 
jam, or sirup — make excellent supper desserts. Tea, 
cocoa, or fruit-ade may be used to break the mono- 
tony of coffee. If possible, ice the drinks during the 
hot weather. 


PRACTICE MAKES PERFECT 

The sample menus given on pages 8-11 in the 
1944 Navy Cook Book are worthwhile studying. 

Try PI.ANNING some meals on your own, even 
though you may not have a chance to actually use 
them. Then ask yourself a few questions — 

Are these meals balanced? 

Is there a good color combination? 

How about the form and texture — are there good 
combinations? Do the flavors go well together? 

Are the meals economical ? Does the cost stay with- 
in the ship’s limit? 

Are all the foods available? 

Is variety provided for ? 

Are the meals suitable for the season of the year? 

Be satisfied only when you can answer yes to all 
these questions. 

Get a good cook or commissary steward to check 
your TRIM. MENUS. He will be glad to do it, and 
undoubtedly will be able to give you some good 
suggestions. 


Digitized b'; 


/ Google 


81 

Original 1tDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Digitized by 


Goiigle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




CHAPTER 8 

GALLEY AND BUTCHER SHOP EQUIPMENT 

LIKE GRANDMA USED TO MAKE 

You’ve often heard the expression, “this food is 
just like grandma used to make.” Well, your grand- 
mother struggled along with pretty crude equipment. 
Machines and tools your grandmother never even 
dreamed about are now being used to help you in 
the galley and butcher shop. Read as much as you 
can about these machines and tools. If possible, watch 
an experienced cook put them through their paces. 
Then, you may be ready to take over. 

ELECTRIC RANGE 

Electric ranges are made in sections. Figure 26 
shows one section. 

The plate tops are usually of cast iron or steel 
alloy so you can clean them easily. 

The ranges either work on a 220 volt three-wire 
system or are especially designed to operate on the 
current of the vessel. 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


83 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



A simple-to-operate switch will give you three 
different degrees of heat — high, medium, or low. 

Each range should have a bake oven which is large 
enough for the ship’s use. The oven coils usually 
have a circuit breaker in the line to protect against 
overheating. The heat in the oven is controlled by a 
thermostat that can be set for the heat required. 
Each coil in the oven has an independent switch. 



Figure 26 . — Electric range. 


Keep the range clean at all times. Pull the main 
switch when the range is not in operation. Report 
any defects immediately. 

OIL RANGE 

Most oil ranges used by the Navy are Navy stand- 
ard, 3V2 foot sections, consisting of a fire box, oven, 
and flue. See figure 27. Usually the oil is forced into 


84 


Digitized by 


Goiigle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 


the range by air pressure. Sometimes steam is used 
instead of air pressure. 

Drain the oil tank every day, just before you 
secure for the night, and refill the oil tank the first 
thing in the morning. This will prevent delay trying 
to get water out of the lines. 



rigure 27. — Oil range. 


After fires are hot enough, cut down the oil and 
air. This will keep the fire from getting too hot. 
It also keeps the amount of smoke down. 

Clean all burners and flues thoroughly at least once 
a week. 

USE OF SCALES 

The set of scales is one of the most important 
pieces of equipment you have. For best results weigh 
everything you use. If the recipe calls for 165 pounds 
of meat, weigh out 165 pounds. Don’t guess. This 
weighing will make it possible to keep an accurate 
record of provisions on hand and will aid you in pre- 
paring the correct amount of good, tasty food. 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


85 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



REFRIGERATORS 


Refrigerators (one is shown in figure 28) must be 
kept clean at all times to prevent bad odors and to 
keep down growth of harmful bacteria and mold. 
Defrost the coils as often as necessary. Never let 
the ice become more than 54 inch thick. Ice and 
frost act as insulators and reduce the efficiency of 
the equipment. Always melt the frost away. Never 
use an ice-pick or any other sharp tool. 



Figure 28. — Refrigerator. 


VEGETABLE LOCKERS 

Fresh vegetables need good ventilation. See that 
they get it by keeping the lockers clean and in good 
condition. Sort over the vegetables often. Remove 
all spoiled fruits and vegetables as soon as spoilage 
is discovered. Otherwise the spoilage will spread 
rapidly. 


86 

Digitized by Got,»gle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 


ELECTRIC MIXER 


The electric mixer (figure 29) is used for mash- 
ing potatoes and other vegetables, mixing left-over 
meats, making mayonnaise and batters, and beating 
eggs. 

One part of the machine revolves through the use 
of a set of transmission and differential gears. Vari- 



Figure 29. — Electric mixer. 


ous shaped paddles and mixers (figure 30) can be 
attached to this revolving part. 

The lower part of the machine contains two ex- 
tended adjustable arms. A bowl, containing the foods 
to be mixed, is placed on these arms and the arms 
are then moved up so the paddles will revolve through 
the mixture. The bowls vary in size from 10 to 80 
quarts. The machines have either three or four speeds. 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


87 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Usually they have an attachment socket that can 
be used for a vegetable • sheer and meat grinder. 

Before using this machine be sure the bowl and 
paddles you intend to use are thoroughly cleaned 
with hot water. Then fasten the paddles to the ma- 
chine. Fill the bowl no more; than one;-hate' Tull — 
a heavier load may burn out the electrical mechanism. 
Place the bowl on the extended arms. Adjust the 
machine for the speed you wish before starting the 
motor. Start the motor by throwing the switch. Then 
grasp the arms holding the bowl and move them 
upward until the revolving paddles contact the items 



Figure 30. — Electric mixer attachments* 


you wish to mix. Warning — keep your hands away 
from the spinning paddles. Turn off the machine 
before you put your hands anywhere near them. 

The mixer requires very little care. The gear cas- 
ings need to be refilled with grease occasionally and 
the machine should be oiled once a day if it is used 
a great deal. Ordinarily this will be done by some 
one else. But you’d better" see that it is taken care of. 

BUHER MACHINE 

The butter cutting machine (figure 31) cuts butter 
into individual rations. 


88 

^ by Go(.)gle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




Place the butter in the box. Pack it tightly between 
the movable head and the die. Operate the handwheel. 
This pushes the butter through the die and cuts it 
into squares. It also operates the head on the outside 
of the box so that the butter is cut to a desired thick- 
ness. The machine can be fed with 8 pounds of butter 
at a time and cuts into 12, 16, or 20 individual squares 
at each turn. 



Figure 31. — Butter cutting machine. 


The butter should be chilled but not frozen. Frozen 
butter will break the wires used for cutting. 

You will find the machine easy to keep clean. Oil 
it only once in a great while. 

COFFEE URNS 

Coffee urns (figure 32) vary in size from 20 to 
80 gallons. They are usually made of copper and 
lined with babbitt or tin. Steam is used for heating. 
A copper-tinned coil at the bottom of the urn runs 
through a trap. This trap holds live steam and allows 

89 


Digitized bfy C^oogie 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



condensation to escape. The inlet is connected with 
the steam and the outlet connects with the trap. Be- 
fore turning on the steam, be sure to open the exhaust 
valve. 



Figure 32 . — Coffee urn. 


The urns should be washed and scrubbed thor- 
oughly after each using. Use hot water and urn 
cleaning powder only — never soap, or lye. 

DEEP FAT FRYER 

The FRiALATOR or deep fat fryer (figure 33) is 
used for preparing French fried potatoes, doughnuts, 
or any other food that needs deep fat frying. 


90 


Digitized tjy 


Goiigle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Before using, be sure the drain valve at the bot- 
tom is closed. Then fill the container with frying 
fat up to the proper level. Leave room to insert the 
basket and its contents. Set the dial for the desired 
temperature and turn on the heat. Caution — Never 
turn on the heat when the container is empty. 

When the food is cooked properly (see Navy Cook 
Book recipe for time required), hang the basket on 
the metal flanges provided and let the fat drain from 



Figure 33. — Frialafor. 


the food into the tank. Read page 222 of this book 
to find out what to do with this frying fat. 

Then drain the machine. Wash and scrub the ma- 
chine thoroughly with a brush and plain boiling water. 
Drain all the water out and let the frialator dry 

739872"— 47 7 91 


Digitized bfy Ljoooie 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 


before using it again. Keep the machine covered 
when not in use. 

COPPERS 

Coppers are used for boiling and steaming vege- 
tables, soups, and puddings. See figure 34. They vary 
in size from 20 to 80 gallons. Even though they are 



Figure 34. — Copper. 


called coppers, they are usually constructed of alu- 
minum or stainless steel. These coppers have an 
inside container and an outside jacket. The jacket 
is connected with a live steam line at the bottom so 
that steam can be forced into the space between the 

92 


Digitized by Go(.)gle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



jacket and the inside container. This steam is con- 
trolled by a pressure reducing valve. 

Before turning on the steam, sure the exhaust 
valve is open or you may have an explosion. Grasp 
the ladles firmly when stirring so you won’t drop 
them in the food. 

After using, clean the coppers thoroughly with hot 
water and a good stiff brush. Use boiling hot water, 
if the copper is greasy — ^but never use soda, soap, 
or lye. 


FOOD SLICING OR BUFFALOING MACHINE 

The food slicing machine (figure 35) is used prin- 
cipally for preparing soup and salad vegetables. An 
electric motor drives a shaft to which two knives. 



Figure 35. — Food slicing machine. 


are attached. These knives revolve at about 1,800 
revolutions per minute. The bowl in which you place 
the vegetables revolves at 50 revolutions per minute. 
The revolving bowl brings the vegetables into con- 
tact with the knives. As soon as the food is of the 


Digitized by 


Google 


93 

Original from 


UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




desired size, stop the machine and remove the bowl. 
Clean and scour the bowl with hot water and a good 
stiff brush. 

THE POTATO PEELER 

The potato peeler (figure 36) is the answer to the 
spud coxswain’s prayer. In five minutes it can peel 
more potatoes than he can peel by hand in an hour. 



Before you use the machine, sort the potatoes so 
that those in any one load are of about the same size. 

The mechanism of the machine is simple. It con- 
sists of a circular drum that is roughly glazed on 
the inside. The base of the drum, also roughly glazed, 
revolves swiftly by means of an electric motor. The 
potatoes are put through an opening in the top part 
of the drum. The revolving base throws the potatoes 
against the rough surface of the sides. These rough 


Digitized by 


Goiigle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA—^ 



surfaces rub the skins off the spuds in the same way 
that sandpaper smooths off a piece of wood. Water 
is made to run over the potatoes continuously in order 
to carry away the waste and peelings. The potatoes 
are removed through an opening in the front of 
the drum. 

When you are ready to use the potato peeler, start 
the drum revolving by turning the switch, turn on 
the water, then dump the potatoes in. Don’t overload 
the machine. Remove the potatoes as soon as they 
are ready. This shouldn’t take more than 2 to 3 
minutes. If the potatoes have deep “eyes” or large 
dents it will be necessary to use a small knife on them 
after they have been removed from the peeler. 



Figure 37. — Potato dicer. 


Clean the peeler by taking it apart and scrubbing 
it with hot water. Do not use soap or other cleaning 
agents. Make sure the belt that revolves the drum 
is kept dry so it won’t slip. 

POTATO DICER 

The potato dicer (figure 37) is used for cutting 
vegetables into cubes, slices, and French-fry shapes. 

95 


Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



By means of a hand-operated lever, the potatoes 
are pushed through a die having knives that cut the 
vegetables into parts Vz inch thick and then dropped 
into another' chamber where there is another die. 
By means of a connecting rod, the vegetables are 
forced through this die and cut into the desired shape. 
Diiferent kinds of dies may be used to give different 
sized cuts. 

The main problem in operating is to see that the 
knives are properly set. Keep the knives absolutely 
clean and dry. Clean the machine after every use 
and oil it daily. 



Figure 38. — Steamer. 


STEAMERS 

Steamers are used for steaming potatoes and other 
vegetables. See figure 38. These steamers consist of 
a cast iron jacket into which steam can be forced. 
The vegetables are placed in a galvanized bucket 


96 


Digitized by 


Goiigle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



and placed inside the jacket. After closing the doors 
and opening the exhaust valve, open the steam valve. 
The amount of steam pressure is controlled by a 
pressure-reducing valve. 

Steamers need daily cleaning. The best way to 
clean them is to flush them out thoroughly with hot 
water. 

THE MEAT BLOCK 

The meat block (figure 39) should be cleaned 
after each use with a scraper and a wire brush. When 
you’re cutting liver or cleaning chicken, scrape it 



Figure 39.— Meat block. 


down even oftener than that. The block will be much 
easier to clean if blood and moisture are not given 
a chance to soak deeply into the wood. 

The beveled edges of the cutting surface prevent 
splitting at the edges of the block. Use the scraper 
on these edges every time you clean the block in 
order to maintain the bevel. 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


Original 


97 


UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Keep the cutting surface of the block dry by observ- 
ing these FOUR dont's — Don’t wash the cutting sur- 
face of the block. Don’t wash meat tools on the block. 
Don’t allow fresh moist meat to remain on the block 
any longer than necessary. Don’t thaw frozen meat 
on the block. 

If the meat block is in good shape from having’ 
been cleaned regularly with the scraper and a brush, 
you shouldn’t need to use salt for cleaning it. Turn 
the block around each week so the surface will wear 
down evenly. Use the entire cutting surface as much 
as possible. 


CARVING KNIVES 

The use of carving knives is one of the first things 
you should learn. Watch an experienced cook or 
butcher carve meat. Notice how he cuts in such a 
way that there is no danger of cutting himself — 
always moving the knife in such a manner that it 
will not cut him if it slips. See how particular he 
is about keeping the knife blade sharp— you’ll see 
him use the steel frequently. Observe how he uses 
the steel. That wrist action is as good as you will 
see on any good curve-ball pitcher. Notice that the 
meat is always cut across the grain in order to 
break down the long fibers in the meat. 

ELECTRIC MEAT GRINDING MACHINE 

Meat grinding machines are used for preparing 
hamburger, minced beef, hash, and chili. 

The machine is made of cast iron. See figure 40. 
The worm A fits into the cylinder B. This worm 
forces the meat through the cutting knife which is 
attached to the end of the cylinder after the worm 
has been inserted. 

The meat is fed into the hopper only after the 
motor has been started. 


98 


Digitized; by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




Force the meat into the machine by means of a 
wooden plunger — not with your hands. 


Figure 40. — Electric meat grinding machine. 


Digitized tjy 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 


Figure 41. — Electric meat saw. 



When finished, take the grinder apart and clean 
each part thoroughly with soap and hot water. Use 
a stiff brush. Keep the machine in a dry, cool place. 

ELECTRIC MEAT SAW 

Electric meat saws (figure 41)' are used mainly 
for cutting lamb chops, pork loins, pork chops, veal 
chops, and ham. 

The saw is made to revolve by a mechanical ar- 
rangement of two wheels and an electric motor. The 
table on which the meat is laid is constructed so that 
you can cut the meat to any desired size. The saw 
blades themselves are H inch wide and about 10 
feet long. 



Figure 42. — Meat slicer. 


Before operating, tighten the blade — using only 
one hand. Put only enough tension on it to keep it 
from slipping. Feed the meat through straight, giv- 
ing the blade a chance to cut. Use only sharp blades. 
Dull blades heat up, twist, and break. 

100 


Digitize by Got,»gle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



The revolving wheels have grease chambers. Pack 
them frequently. Keep the machine clean. Oil it at 
least once a week. 


MEAT SLICER 

The meat sheer (figure 42) is used for slicing 
roasts, bacon, luncheon meat, various kinds of sau- 
sages, and ham. 

The machine has a carriage on which the meat 
is placed. A swiftly revolving disk knife slices the 
meat as the' carriage is moved across the face of 
the revolving knife. Here’s how to use the sheer — 

Place the meat on the carriage and adjust the 
clamp to hold the meat firmly. This clamp also fur- 
nishes protection for your hand. Next, set the dial for 
the desired thickness of the slices. Then turn on the 
switch to make the disk knife revolve. Move the car- 
riage back and forth with the hand lever. Warning — 
keep your hands away from the revolving knife. 

Clean the machine with hot water and a stiff brush. 
Don’t let any water get into the motor. Dry thor- 
oughly with a cloth after cleaning. Oil the shaft and 
other parts that require oil. 

When the disk knife needs sharpening, adjust the 
emery wheels that are attached to the machine. Then 
turn on the switch so the blade will revolve against 
the wheels. Clean the knife thoroughly after sharp- 
ening to remove the particles of emery that stick to 
the knife. 


CUBE STEAK MACHINE 

The cube steak machine is used to make all sorts 
of tough meats tender. The machine is about 20 
inches long and about one foot wide. 

To operate, lay the steak on the perforated plate 
and push the hand lever. This lever causes 32 disk- 
wheel knives to cut across the steak. The perforated 


Digitized 


V Google 


n 1 101 

Original c . 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



plate then makes a one-quarter turn (90*). Push 
the lever again to make cuts crossing the first cuts. 
The steak is then ready for frying or broiling. 

Take the machine apart and clean after each using. 
Oil the parts often. 


102 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



CHAPTER 9 


CUTTING MEAT THE NAVY WAY 

EVERY BIT USED 

Most of the beef taken aboard ship is frozen. The 
bones have been taken out and the meat cut into 
pieces. The frozen meat is delivered in boxes weigh- 
ing from 44 to 55 pounds. Each box is marked so 
you will know which meat you can use for steaks or 
roasts, for stewing, or as chopped meat. 

But, what are you going to do when fresh or frozen 
wHoi^Ei carcasses of lamb, halves of veal, or quar- 
ters of beef are delivered? This happens occasion- 
ally aboard ship and frequently at shore stations. 

The Navy way of meat cutting has been worked 
out to make the best use of all parts of the carcass — 
even the bones. 

Beef is the most popular of all meats. Learn how 
to handle it first. Before you do any beef cutting 
though, study the beef chart on page 104 until you 
have an idea where the bones are located. The line 
A-B shows where the division into quarters is made. 

103 


Digitized bfy (^oogie 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



BEEF CHART 



104 


Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



MAKING BEEF HINDQUARTER CUTS 

Figure 44 shows a hindquarter divided into various 
sections which you should be able to recognize and 
cut. Dotted lines indicate pieces that are cut from 
the opposite side of the quarter. 

Numbers 4 through 9 are used for roasts and 
.steaks. This takes in about 46 percent of the hind- 



quarter. Numbers 1 , 2 , 3 , 10 and 11 (22 percent of 
the quarter) are used for braising, stewing or grind- 
ing. About 14 percent is made up of fat, used for 
covering lean meat and for cooking. Bones, 16 per- 
cent of the quarter, are used for making soup stock. 
Only 2 percent loss is allowed for cutting and trim- 
ming. Now for the cutting — 


L 


Digitized by 


Go^'gle 


Original 


frl05 


UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




REMOVING THE FLANK 


Figure 45 shows where 
cuts should be made to 
separate the flank from 
the hindquarter. The cuts 
are made from a to c and 
from h to c. 


FLANK 


How is this done? 
First of all, hang the 
quarter up as shown in 
figure 46. As indicated, 
saw through the 13 th rib 
about 1 inch below the 
loin “eye” muscle. Next 
comes the knife. 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




Figure 47 shows how 
you cut straight up, par- 
allel with the back, until 
the knife hits the hip 
bone. 

Before making other 
cuts, remove the thin lay- 
er of meat from outside 
of flank (figure 48). 


THIN LAYER OF 
MEAT ON FLANK 


Digitized by 




Original I* 107 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



DigiU 




Now, work on the other side of the quarter. Loosen 
the cod fat a shown in figure 49 by cutting through 

the seam over the inside 
round and knuckle. Bro- 
ken line shows area to 
be cut. Flank is at left. 

Then cut through the 
seam around the knuckle 
to partially separate the 
flank from the hindquar- 
ter. See figure 50. 


Figure 50. 




Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Finish separat- 
ing the flank from 
the hindquarter as 
shown in figure 
51. 


Figure 51. 



NAVEL SIDE 


CUniNG THE FLANK 



Lay the flank down as you see it in figure 52. 
Cut the thin strip X from the navel side as shown. 

Pull the mem- 
brane from the 
inside of the 
flank as pic- 
tured. 


Figure 52. 


109 


Digitized by L^oogie 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Figure 53. 


Remove the piece of bone left in the flank when 
you sawed through the 13th rib. Lastly, separate 
the meat from the fat. Pull the flank steak — with 
meat attached — away from the fat as far as it will 
pull easily. Then make the cut seen in figure 53. 


Now the boneless flank is 
for stewing or grinding. 

REMOVING THE 
HANGING TENDER 

Your next job is to cut 
the hanging tender from 
the quarter. Now that the 
flank is removed, the 
hanging tender is re- 
vealed as in figure 54. 
Just before making this 
cut, remove the large 
blood vessel from along 
the edge of the chine bone 
as shown. 


ready to be cut into pieces 



Figure 54, 


1 


110 


Digitized by Got,»gle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Remove the membrane and surplus fat from the 
outside of the hanging tender. Split the tender and 
take out the strip of gristle. 

This boneless hanging tender is then used for stew- 
ing or grinding. 


REMOVING FAT FROM INSIDE OF HIND QUARTER 

Before making any other cuts, remove the fat 
from the inside. Figure 55 shows the first step. Cut 



AITCH (RUMP) 


BACK BONE 


Figure 55. 


1 


I 


through the fat from end of aitch (rump) bone a 
to the edge of the backbone b. 


Digitized tsy CjOOQle 


Ori;:*+‘n’c:m 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



RUMP 

FAT 
BONE 


Figure 56. 


Remove layer of fat (X of figure 56) leaving 
about V2 inch on the meat. Cut the surplus fat from 
rump as shown. While doing this, unjoint and remove 
the tailbone (usually two tail vertebrae). Scoop the 
fat from inside the rump cavity (figure 57 ). 



Figure 57, 


112 


Digitized by 


Gougle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIF0£N14. 



Follow the 
seam to remove 
loin fat and the 
kidney knob as 
shown in figure 

58 . 



KIDNEY KNOB 


Split Open the kidney knob and take out the kidney 
(figure 59 ). Use the kidney with other meats in 
stews and ground meat dishes. 


KIDNEY 


113 



Figure 59. 


Digitized bfy 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



REMOVING SHORT LOIN 


Figure 60 shows how to remove the short loin. 
The butt end of the tenderloin (7) must be loosened 



the exposed aitch bone to 
tenderloin a from knuckle 


and the short loin re- 
moved by making a cut 
between vertebrae x 
and y and then by cut- 
ting through the meat 
immediately in front of 
the hip bone from a 
' to b. You don’t need a 
saw for this. 

First, scoop the layer 
of lean meat from the 
aitch (rump) bone 
shown in X of figure 
61 . Use a boning knife. 
Then cut on a line with 
separate the head of the 



Figure 6L 


114 


Digitize by 


Goiigle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Look at figure 62. Follow the seam over the hip 
bone to loosen the butt end of the tenderloin. 



HIPBONE 


BUTT END 
TENDERLOIN 


Figure 62. 


Continue cutting under the tenderloin (figure 63) 
until the end of the hip bone is reached. 



Figure 63. 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


n 

Ongii =il i- Qm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Next, cut through the meat between the hip bone 
a and the last finger bone b (figure 64). Twist the 




SHORT LOIN 


HIP BONE 


LAST FINGER BON 


Figure 64. 


short loin with your hands to free it from the rest 
of the quarter. 


Digitized by 


116 

Gougle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNJ4j 



REMOVING AND TRIMMING THE TENDERLOIN 


TENDERLOtN 


Cut under the tenderloin to separate it from the 
short loin (figure 65). Remove the tough membrane 
from the outside of the tenderloin (figure 66). 


TOUGH MEMBRANE 


■TENDERLOIN 


The tenderloin is used for roasts or steaks 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




THE LOIN STRIP 

With the tenderloin removed, separate the loin 
strip from the backbone (figure 67). 


LOIN STRIP 


lACKBONE 


Figure 68 shows the topside of the loin strip 


TOPSIDE OF LOIN STRIP 


This piece of meat is excellent for roasts or steaks 


Digitize by 


Goctgle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CA LIFORNI A _ 



REMOVING SIRLOIN-RUMP BUH 


The line o to & in figure 
cut is to be made in order to 



69 indicates where the 
remove the sirloin-rump 
butt. 


Before this cut can 
be made, the rump and 
hip bone must be re- 
moved. Notice careful- 
ly how this is done. 
Loosen the meat from 
around the end of the 
hip bone as shown in 
figure 70. 



HIP BONE — 


Figure 70. 


Digitized bfy L^oogie 


Or' J; IWo'm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




Cut the meat free from the aitch (rump) bone 
(figure 71). 


AITCH 

(RUMP) BONE 


Remove the bone by pulling it with one hand and 
cutting the meat free with the other (figure 72). 


^AITCH 

(RUMP) BONE 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORhM 


Digitized by 



I‘ 


I 

I 


Figure 73. 


Trim the sirloin-rump butt you have removed by 
cutting away the loose layer of meat and fat outlined 
by the dotted line in figure 74. 

121 



Cut through both sides of the meat to the leg bone. 
Then cut around the ball end of the leg bone to 
separate the sirloin-rump butt from the round (fig- 
ure 73). 


SIRLOIN 
RUMP BUTT 


{ROUND 


BALL END OF 
LEG BONE ' 



LOOSE LAYER OF 
FAT AND MEAT 



Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Split the sirloin-rump butt into two pieces by mak- 
ing the cut illustrated in figure 75. Cut the thin meat 
a from the sirloin section. 



THIN MEAT 


3 


I 


The sirloin-rump butt is used for roasts or steaks. 


8HANK BONE 


MAKING CUTS FROM BEEF ROUND 

Examine figure 76 to see what is to be done. The 
knuckle 1 is to be removed by cutting through the 

meat to the leg bone 
from a to 6 ON both 
SIDES of the round. 
The inside (top) round 
2 will be removed by 

INSIDE (TOP) ROUND StSTtillg’ along the line 

OUTSIDE (BOTTOM) O J T 11 

e — c and following 
along the seam from 
c to d and e to h. The 
outside (bottom) round 
Figure 76. J will be taken off by 

cutting through the seam and around the heel 4. 
The heel 4 is removed by cutting around the shank 
and leg bones. 



OUTSIDE (BOTTOM) 
ROUND IS ON 
OTHER SIDE 


leg bone 


122 


Digitized by Got-tgle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OFCA L i rOf t N I ft —^ 



The face of the beef round shown in figure 77 
also shows the location and names of the cuts to be 


1 



removed. They are: knuckle (tip) 1, meat and fat 
covering, 1-a; inside (top) round 2; outside (bot- 
tom) round, 3-a and 3-b. 


REMOVING THE KNUCKLE (TIP) 



oflccbone 


Figure 78. 


On the inner face of 
the round, cut through 
the meat to the leg 
(round) bone from 
kneecap to end of bone 
as illustrated in figure 


78. 


739872®— 47 9 


Digitized tsy 


Google 


123 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Follow the seam to remove the meat and fat from 
outside of knuckle. (Figure 79). 



FAT AND 
SURPLUS MEAT 


Figure 79. 

Cut through the seam to leg (round) bone between 
a and h then unjoint the 'kneecap and cut through 
the membrane which covers the leg bone (figure 80). 


LEG (ROUND) BONE 


IKNEE CAP 
UNJOINTED 


KNUCKLE 


Figure 80. 



Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 


Pull the knuckle (tip) from the leg (round) bone 
(figure 81). 


Figure 82 
shows how to 
trim the knuckle 
(tip). Cut the 
knee cap 1 from 
the knuckle 3 ; 
then follow the 
natural seam to 
remove the thin 
muscle 2 . 



(ROUND) BONE 


KNUCKLE (TIP) 


Figure 81 . 


KNEE CAP 


INSIDE 
KNEE CAP 



MUSCLE 


Figure 82 , 


The knuckle (tip) 3 is used for roasts and steaks. 


125 


Digitized tsy L^oogie 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



REMOVING THE INSIDE (TOP) ROUND ' 


After trimming the thin layer of dry meat and 
membrane from the inside (top) round, cut in a 



_ LOWER END 
OF GAM CORO 


EYE MUSCLE 


straight line with the tip of 
the knife from near the 
lower end of the gam cord 
a shown in figure 83 to the 
edge of “eye” muscle h. 

Then cut from the lower 
end of the gam cord a along 
the line a-b to the upper end 
of the leg (round) bone b 
as shown in figure 84. Use 
the tip of the knife for this. 


Figure 83 



-LOWER EDGE 
OF GAM CORO 


UPPER END OF 
LEG (ROUND) BO| 




Cut through the seam to separate the inside (bot- 
tom) round (figure 85). 



OUTSIDE 
(BOTTOM) 

I 


INSIDE 

(TOP) ROUND 


Figure 85. 



INSIDE 

(TOP) ROUND 


OUTSIDE 

(BOTTOM) ROUND 


Continue cutting 
through the seam to re- 
move the inside (top) 
round (figure 86). 

Cutting with the 
grain of the meat, split 
the inside (top) round 
into 2 or 3 pieces of 
equal size (figure 87). 
Trim the thin meat 
from the shank end of 
these pieces. Use for 
roasts and steaks. 


Figure 86. 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


127 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




END OF EYE 
MUSCLE 


OUTSIDE 

(BOTTOM) ROUND 


Digitized by 


Go(.)gle 


Figure 88. 


SHANK END 


Figure 87. 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA _ 


REMOVING THE OUTSIDE (BOTTOM) ROUND 


Cut through the end of the “eye” muscle to the 
first natural seam (figure 88). 




Cut through the seam between the heel and the 
outside (bottom) round (figure 90). 


Figure 90. 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


129 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 


Continue cutting with tip of knife (figure 89). 


OUTSIDE 

(BOTTOM) ROUND 


OUTSIDE - 
(BOTTOM) 


HEEL 


Figure 89« 



Cut through the seam around the heel muscle. 



ouTsioe 

(BOTTOM) ROUND 


Finish cutting through seam around heel: remove 
outside (bottom) round by freeing meat from leg 
(round) bone (figure 92). Trim surplus fat (sec- 
tion X). 



ouraoe 

(BOTTOM) ROUND 


LEG (ROUND) 
BONE 



Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



As shown in figure 93, cut the tough membrane X 
from the edge of the outside (bottom) round. Divide 
outside (bottom) round into two pieces by cutting, 
with the grain of the meat, along line a to b. 


TCXJGH 

MEMBRANE 


Figure 93. 



OUTSIDE 

(BOTTOM) ROUND 


Trim the thin meat from shank end of cuts #/ and 
I #2 (figure 94). Cut #2 may be tied with 2 strings. 



SHANK END 


Figure 94. 

These two cuts are used for braising as pot roasts 
or Swiss steaks. Use for roasting or as steaks for 
griddle broiling only when necessary. 


131 


Digitized bfy C^oogie 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 





REMOVING AND TRIMMING HEEL AND SHANK MEAT 

Cut around the shank and leg bones to remove heel 
and shank meat (figure 95). 



Cut through the seam to separate the shank meat 
1 from the heel meat 2 (figure 96). Trim the thin 
meat 3 from the end of the heel. 



Figure 96. 


132 


Digitized by 


Goiigle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



I 


The heel of the round 2 is used for braising as a 
pot-roast or for cutting into pieces for stewing or 
grinding. 


USING MEAT TRIMMINGS. BONES. AND FAT 

Cut the lean trimmings into pieces for stew, or 
grind, and use for meat loaf, beefburgers, Salisbury 
steaks, or meat balls. 

All fresh clean fat trimmed from beef quarters or 
cuts should be cut into strips, ground through a coarse 
plate, and rendered immediately for use in cooking. 

Saw the bones into pieces and use for making stock 
for soups, gravies, or meat loaves. 


MAKING BEEF FOREQUARTER CUTS 

Now move up forward. Figure 97 shows the names 



BONELESS 
RIB 


PLATE 


UPPER HALF CLOD 

BRISKET 

LOWER HALF CLOD 


BONELESS 


AND SHANK 


INSIDE 

CHUCK 


CHUCK - 
TENDER 


Figure 97. 


I 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


133 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




and locations of the cuts that are made from the beef 
forequarter. Numbers 1, 3, 4, 7 , and S are used for 
roasts and steaks. This makes up 20% of the quarter. 
Numbers 2, 5, 6, and 9 are used for braising, stewing, 
or grinding. About 53% of the quarter is included in 
these cuts. Surplus fat makes up 7% and bones 18% 
of the quarter. Again, only 2% is allowed for cutting 
and trimming. 


TRIMMING 


PLATE 


BACK 


BRISKET 


NECK 


NECK 

PIN 


First of all, hang the forequarter on the hook so it 
hangs evenly from its own weight (figure 98). Then 
do whatever trimming may be necessary from around 
the neck, plate, brisket, and back. 

Use a knife to loosen and remove the neck pin 
shown in a of figure 98. Then cut between the 1st 
and 2nd vertebrae to remove the atlas bone (figure 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFOP 




ATLAS 

-bone; 


Figure 99. 


Remove the heart fat lying along the edge of the 
breastbone as indicated in X of figure 100. Then trim 
the bloody meat from the throat side of the neck as 
illustrated. 


HEART 

FAT 


BLOODY 
‘ MEAT 


Figure 100. 


Google 


135 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 


Cut a thin strip (x) from the navel side of plate 
(dotted line in figure 101). Cut a narrow strip from 
the thin edge of the skirt (diaphragm) a to b. 



Figure 101# 


The steps completed as shown in figure will enable 
you to pull the membrane from the skirt and plate 
meat (figure 102). 



Figure 102. 


^36 

Digitized tjy 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



REMOVING SKIRT AND PLATE MEAT 


Start cut- 
ting under 
the skirt 
and plate 
meat at a 
and conti- 
nue cutting 
close to ribs 
to point in 
figure. 


Figure 103. 

After cutting the meat free from the cartilage at 
the end of the rib bone, remove the roll of skirt and 
plate meat. See figure 104. 


This meat 
is used for 
stewing or 
grinding. 


Figure 104, 




137 


Digitized by (^oogie 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



LOOSENING PLATE AND BRISKET 


After removing the 
excess fat from the 
edge of the brisket, cut 
under the rib cartilage 
a and breastbone h to 
loosen the plate and 
brisket meat, (figure 
105). Remove the strip 
of fat which covers the 
top part of the feather 
bones. Then remove the 
ends of the feather 
bones at point where 
they were scribed with 
saw (figure 106). 


Figure 105. 


TRIMMING THE BACK 



Figure 106. 



138 

bvGoL^gle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CAUFOfiM^ 




Figure 107. 


Cut back 
under re- 
maining 
sections of 
the feather 
bones to 
loosen these 
bones from 
the meat 
(figure 
107). 


Pull the back strap from full length of forequarter 
. (figure 108). 





Figure 108. 


Digitized bfy 


739872^—47 10 

Google 


139 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



1 


MAKING THE OUTSIDE CHUCK CUTS 

So far, all you have been doing is trimming. Now 
for some cuts. Figure 109 shows what should be done. 

The cut between the 5th and 6th ribs from a to b 
is made first. Then, the arm and shank are removed. 
This is done by first cutting from c to d to e. K cut 
through the seam over the brisket beginning at line 
c-f makes it possible for you to remove the arm and 
shank from the rest of the quarter. 



Figure 109. 


I 


I 


A cut is then made over the ridge of the bladebone 
from d to h. The thin outside neck meat and fat pocket 
is next removed by cutting along the seam over the 
neck. 

The remaining section of the outside chuck is re- 
moved by starting a cut at line a-c and cutting through 
the seam under the bladebone. The bladebone will be 
included with this piece. 

140 

Digitized by Got,»gle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 





Does it sound complicated? It will become clearer 
as you do it step by step. First of all, mark the fore- 

quarter by m- 

ribs so that the 


Figure MO. 


Using the 
mark on the 
outside of the 
quarter as. a 
guide, cut 
through the 
meat to the back- 
bone from a to 
h, (figure 111). 



Figure III. 


Digitized by 


Google 


141 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 


Cut across clod and over the socket joint {c to e, 
figure 112). Cut through seam between arm shank 
and the brisket, starting along dotted line c to /. 


CLOD 


The next step is to cut through the ball and socket 
joint and remove the arm shank (figure 113). 


-SOCKET OF 
BLADE BONE 


Figure 1 13. 



BRISKET 


ARM SHANK 


Figure 1 12. 



142 


Digitized by 


Goiigle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




LOWER HALF 
CLOD 


Separate the lower half clod a from the arm shank 
b (figure 114). (The lower half clod is used for brais- 
ing or roasting.) 


Figure I 14, 


Trim the meat from the arm and shank bones, 
(figure 115). 


ARM SHANK 


Figure 115. 


Use this for stewing or grinding. 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


143 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




REMOVING OUTSIDE NECK MEAT 


Cut through the meat 
from h io e over the edge 
of the ridge bone (figure 
116). Remove the outside 
neck meat and pocket of 
fat by following the seam 
(figure 116) that sepa- 
rates it from the thick 
meat of the neck. 

Trim out the surplus 
fat and use this thin meat 
for stewing or grinding. 



Figure 116 . 


REMOVING REMAINDER OF OUTSIDE CHUCK 



Follow the seam to re- 
move the remainder of 
the outside chuck (figure 
117). This piece includes 
the blade bone. 


144 


Digitized by 


Goiigle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



REMOVING THE CHUCK TENDER 



Take the piece just removed and cut along the ridge 
of the blade bone to remove the chuck tender (figure 
118). 


CHUCK TENDER 


Figure 1 18. 


The chuck tender is used for braising. It should 
be used for roasts only when absolutely necessary. 

REMOVING BLADE BONE FROM UPPER HALF CLOD 

Cut along the ridge and around the socket of blade 
bone as indicated in figure 1 19. 


RIOGE OF 
BLADE BONE 


Figure 1 19. 



SOCKET OF 
BONE 


Digitized by 


Google 


145 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




BLADE BONE 


TRIMMING THE UPPER HALF CLOD 



Cut the thin meat {1 and 2) from the upper half 
clod as shown in figure 122. 


UPPER HALF CIjOD 


THIN 


Figure 122. 


Use the upper half clod (J) for braising, or roast- 
ing when necessary. 


CUTTING REMAINDER OF FOREQUARTER 

Separate the thin meat from the thick meat by 
cutting from a to b (figure 123) through all the meat 



PLATE 


BRtSKET 


Figure 123. 


to the rib bones. 
This cut sepa- 
rates the plate, 
1 and the brisk- 
et, 2 from the 
rib 3 and the in- 
side chuck and 
neck, 4. Now 
cut between 5th 
and 6th ribs (^x 
to y) to separate 
brisket from 
plate. 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


147 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



#• 




REMOVING THE BONELESS BRISKET 



Cut close to the ribs to remove the boneless brisket 
(figure 126). 


Cut point (piece 
number 1 ) from brisk- 
et. (Figure 127). Di- 
vide the remainder into 
two pieces by cutting as 
indicated by dotted line. 


PigMre 126. 



POINT 


Figure 127. 

Remove the excess fat from piece number 2 and 
use for braising, stewing, or grinding. Separate the 
lean from the fat in pieces 1 and 3 . Use the lean meat 
for stewing or grinding. Render the fat. 


Digitized tsy 


Google 


149 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



n 


REMOVING AND TRIMMING THE BONELESS RIB 

Remove the boneless rib by cutting close to the rib 
bones (figure 128). 


BONELESS 
RIB- 


Figure 128. 



Following line a to h (figure 12Q) cut through the 
thin meat above the rib “eye” just back of the blade 
bone cartilage. Remove the piece of thin meat and 
blade cartilage by following the natural seam. 


•EYE* 


Figure 129. 


150 


Digitized by 


Gougle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIaJ 



THIN MEAT 
AND BLADE 
CARTILAGE 




After removing the blade cartilage, separate the 
remaining lean from fat and replace the layer of fat 

> over the unprotected section 

of the boneless rib (figure 
^ 130). The boneless rib is 

^ excellent for roasts or 

fcf ;. Steaks. 

4 Cut close to the ribs to 

partially remove the inside 
-^1 chuck and neck (figure 

lff\ m 131). 


REMOVING THE INSIDE CHUCK AND NECK 


INSIDE CHUCK 
AND NECK- 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Finish removal by cutting through the joint just 
ahead of the 1st rib shown in figure 132. This sepa- 
rates the neck bone from the back bone. 



Figure 132. 

CUniNG THE INSIDE CHUCK AND NECK 

Remove strip of meat from the throat side of the 
neckbone, (figure 133). 



Figure 133. 


152 


Digitized by 


Gougle 


NECK BONE 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




Cut underneath the neck bone and lift it from the 
neck meat (figure 134). 


NECK BONE 


NECK MEAT 


Figure 134. 

Trim off the thin meat (pieces number 1 and 2) 
in figure 135. Cut remainder into the two pieces num- 
bered 3 and 4 . 



INSIDE CHUCK 


Figure 135. 

The inside chuck, number 3 , is used for roasting or 
steaks. The boneless neck, number 4 , is used for brais- 
ing, stewing, or grinding. 

163 


Digitized bfy K^OOQie 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



TRIMMING THE BONES 

Trim fat and strip of meat from inside of chine 
bone (figure 136). 


FAT AND STRIP 
OF MEAT 


CHINE BONE 


Figure 136. 



RIB CARTILAGE 


BREASTBONE 


154 


Digitized biy 


Goc>gle 


Figure 137. 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Cut through cartilage at ends of rib bones to re- 
move rib cartilage a and breastbone b in figure 137. 

Look at figure 138. Trim the meat (7) from the 
rib cartilage and the breastbone (2). Remove the rib 
fingers (i) by cutting along the sides of each rib bone. 



Figure 138. 


Use the boneless meat for stewing or grinding. 
Saw and use the bones for stock. 

LAMB 

Even though lamb and beef carcasses don’t look 
much alike, their framework of bones is the same. 

rNECK r-SHOULOER 



RACK 

SHANK BREAST 

Figure 139.— Main cuts of lamb. 

739872®— 47 11 


Digitized by 


Google 


155 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Fresh frozen beef is usually delivered in quarters. As 
lamb is much lighter than beef, it is brought aboard 
in whole carcasses. Your cutting job will be a little 
different. 

The lamb chart (figure 139) shows the lamb car- 
cass broken into the usual main cuts. 

The heavy lines in figure 140 show from a side view 
where these same cuts are made. 

Notice the framework of bones in this figure. 
Here’s how to make these cuts — 

MAKING THE CUTS 

Put the lamb on the block with the back up. Remove 
the neck at the point where it joins the shoulder. 

Turn the carcass on its side, and remove the breasts 



Figure 140. Cutting the lamb carcass. 


and shoulder by cutting along the line a-h shown in 
figure 140. 

Then separate the shanks from the breasts. 

Turn what’s left of the lamb on its back. Cut be- 
tween the 5th and 6th ribs through the backbone (line 
c-d in figure 140) to separate the shoulders from the 
rack. 

Then cut the rack from the loin by cutting across 
both flanks to the backbone. This cut is to be made 
back of the 13th rib (line e-f in figure 140). There 
should be eight ribs in the rack and five ribs in the 
shoulder, 

156 


Digitized by CjOOQle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA^ 



Now separate the loins from the legs by cutting 
along g-h in figure 140. This cut is made just in front 
of the hipbones. 

How can these cuts be used ? 

LAMB FOR ROASTS 

The shoulders, rack, loin, and legs are best for 
roasting. You can usually get 6 good roasts from 
these cuts — 2 from the legs, 1 each from the loin and 
rack and 2 from the shoulder. 

You can make the cooking and carving jobs easier 
by boning and rolling these roasts. 

LAMB FOR STEWS 

The thin cuts — the breasts, shanks, and neck are 
best suited for stew and ground meat dishes. If you 
need some of the other cuts to get enough meat, use 
the shoulders. Remove all bones and excess fat from 
the meat and cut the meat into small pieces. Never use 
the cleaver when doing this as splinters of bone will 
remain in the meat. 



LAMB CHOPS 

Chops can be cut from the legs, the loin, the rack, 
and the shoulders. But, if you want to serve chops, 
it’s better to cut up the carcass with that in mind. 
About Y 2 of the lamb carcass is suitable for chops. 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


167 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Two-fifths of what’s left can be used for other serv- 
ings — mostly stew and chopped lamb. 

Chops are particularly easy to cut if you have an 
electric meat saw. Here’s how it’s done — 

CUniNS LAMB CHOPS 

The heavy lines in figure 141 show where the main 
cuts are to be made. The lighter lines show the cuts 
to make in order to get the separate chops. Now, take 
it step by step. 



Figure 142. — Lamb shoulder chops. 


SHOUI.DER CHOPS — Remove the chuck by cutting 
through the 5th and 6th ribs {a-h in figure 142). Then 
cut from c io d to remove the shank and brisket from 
the shoulder. Cut the shoulder into arm and blade 
chops as indicated in this same figure. 



j-RACK 

[-DOUBLE RIB CHOPS 

T— HINDSADDLE 

Id 


Figure 143.— Lemb double rib chops. . 


158 

I by Goiigle 


•Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



r 


Double rib chops — Separate the rack and breast 
from the hindsaddle by cutting back of the 13 th rib 
{a-b in figure 143). Cut across the ribs about one inch 
from the rib eye muscle (c-d in figure 143). This cut 
separates the breast from the rack. Cut the rack into 
chops as indicated. 



Double loin chops — Remove the flank from the 
hindsaddle by cutting along line a-b in figure 144. 
Then cut your chops as pictured. 



Figure 145. — Lamb leg chops. 


Leg chops — Split the legs and cut them into chops 
as shown in figure 145. 

Using what’s left — The light section in figure 
146 shows you what’s left of the carcass after the 
chops have been cut. These sections should be boned 
and used for lamburgers or lamb patties. 


159 


Digitized bfy Cjoooie 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




Figure 146.— What’s left. 


CUTTING VEAL 

The bone structure of veal is the same as that of 
beef. Veal is usually brought aboard as whole car- 
casses or as sides. Heavy veal carcasses should be 
split down the center of the backbone. 

The sides should then be divided into quarters. 
These quarters may be cut up in the same way as 
you cut beef. 

Light veal carcasses may be cut into boneless roast 
and boneless stew meat in the same way recommended 
for the major cuts of lamb. 


PORK 

Packing plants cut hog carcasses into the wholesale 
cuts shown in figure 147. 

The usual fresh cuts brought aboard are picnics, 
butts, loins, and spareribs. Fresh hams aren’t used 
very often. 

You’ll find it easy to prepare these cuts for use. 


PICNICS AND BUTTS 


Picnics and butts can be used as roasts or as steaks. 
The steaks are cut much like the arm and blade bone 


160 


Digitized by 


Goiigle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 


! 



lamb chops. See page 158. The steaks from the picnics 
are similar to the arm bone lamb chops. The steaks 
from the butt are cut like the blade bone lamb chops. 

PORK LOINS 

Pork loins are used most commonly for chops. 
These chops may be boneless or have the bone left in. 
The loins also make good roasts. 

Remove the bones from the roasts before cooking 
to make the carving job easier. The boneless pork loin 
should then be cut into two pieces of equal length. Lay 
these two pieces together, fat sides out. Keep the thick 
ends of the loins at opposite ends of the boneless roast. 
Tie the two pieces together to make your roast 
compact. 



SPARE RIBS 

A good way of cutting spareribs is to remove the 
breastbone and then slice between the ribs. This 
method of preparation makes the ribs easy to serve. 

THE HAMS 

A fresh ham weighing less than 12 pounds may be 
made into a single boneless roll suitable for roasting. 
Heavier hams should be cut into two roasts of uni- 
form size. 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


161 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



SMOKED MEATS 


Smoked meats are important in the Navy menu 
especially when refrigeration facilities are limited. 
Fresh meat can’t be kept very long unless it is frozen 
and frozen meat must be kept at a low temperature. 
Smoked meats keep for a long time at moderate tem- 
peratures. 

CUTTING SMOKED MEATS 

Smoked hams and picnics are the only two cuts that 
may give you any trouble in cutting. These cuts are 
easier to carve and serve if you remove the bones 
before cooking. 

Remove the bones in a smoked ham the same way as 
you do in a beef round. See page 128. Take the shank 
off at the stifle joint. Remove the aitch (rump) bone. 
Cut along the leg bone on either side to remove the 
knuckle section. Lift the leg bone out. Divide the 
cushion side of the ham into two pieces by following 
the natural seam, separating the inside and outside 
muscles. Uniform slices of ham may be cut from the 
knuckle and the two cushion pieces by slicing the cuts 
from end to end. 


162 

Digitized; by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




CHAPTER 10 

WHAT'S COOKING 

WHY COOK 

Why cook, anyway? 

You’ll get part of the answer if you try to eat a 
raw beet. Raw beets just don’t taste good. They need 
to be cooked to make you want to eat them. Or, try 
eating a raw steak — ^just a bit on the tough side. And 
if you do manage to eat some, your stomach may 
object plenty later on. The steak must be prepared in 
such a way that the meat becomes more palatable and 
tender. Then you can eat it easily and digest it readily. 
Cooking also performs the worth-while job of kill- 
ing any germs which might be in or on the food. 

Some fruits and green vegetables are both appetiz- 
ing and palatable in the raw state, but you should 
know how to cook them when necessary. 

SOUPS 

Soup is a tasty, nutritious, and wholesome food. 
It is liked by the men. It’s fairly easy to make. And it 

163 


Digitized bfy 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



can be prepared in many different ways for variety. 
Because soup is such a nutritious addition to any meal, 
you should serve it with the evening chow every few 
days even in warm weather. Most of the ingredients 
of soup are inexpensive bones, less desirable cuts of 
meat, liquids in which vegetables are canned or 
cooked, and vegetables themselves. There is a lot of 
food value in all of them. Don’t waste them — ^put ’em 
in the soup. 


SOUP STOCK 

Most soups are made from stock. (Consult your 
Navy Cook Book for the details.) Stock is made by 
using sawed up bones and small pieces of meat. These 
are mixed with vegetables and allowed to simmer in 
vegetable juices or water for several hours. The stock 
is then strained off from the solids — it is then ready 
to form the basis of any soup. 

Beef bones are most commonly used for stock, but 
you can also get good stock by combining beef and 
veal bones. The lean meat and bones of lamb and 
mutton are good for making stock used for broth. Get 
rid of most of the fat before using. Stock from smoked 
ham shanks is good for flavoring bean or pea soup. 

Soup stock spoils easily. Make it fresh every day. 
Cool it, and then place it in the refrigerator. Be sure 
the stock containers are clean. A layer of fat usually 
forms on the surface of the cold stock. When you are 
ready to use the stock, remove this layer of fat. 

USE OF VEGETABLES IN SOUP 

The vegetables most commonly used for soup are 
celery, carrots, beans, peas, green pepper, onion, toma- 
toes, and okra. Cut the vegetables into small cubes, 
or into match-like strips called “Julienne”. If you use 
them Julienne, cook them separately until they’re ten- 
der — ^but use as small an amount of water as possible. 

164 


Digitized by CjOOQle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Then add both solids and cooking liquid to the stock. 
This cooking liquid contains valuable vitamins as well 
as some of the vegetables’ flavor. Spices such as all- 
spice, bay-leaf, celery or onion salt, chives, cloves, 
mace, marjoram, parsley, paprika, pepper, savory, 
sweet basil or thyme may be used for seasoning. 

KINDS OF SOUP 

Now, what kind of soup do you want? 

You can prepare a clear soup — bouillon or con- 
somme — ^by straining the stock and letting it cool. 
Then it must be left in the refrigerator until the fat 
hardens on top. When you’re ready to serve the soup, 
remove the layer of fat and heat the stock. 

A JELLIED soup can be prepared from a clear soup 
by adding gelatin. 

Maybe you wish to serve a broth. Strain the stock 
and add some vegetables. But be sure you don’t add 
anything that will thicken the stock. Broth is a light 
soup. 

When the weather is cold or stormy or when the 
rest of the meal is light, you may want a thick, heavy 
soup. To get this, add a thickiner to the stock. Flour, 
barley, corn meal, rice, or noodles will do the trick. 

Cream soups are made with hot milk. This is an- 
other way of getting the men to drink milk. 

Once in a while it’s a good idea to make soups with 
peas, beans, or lentils that have been put through a 
sieve. Such a soup is called a purEE. 


MEAT 

Your future as a cook is bright if you know how to 
prepare meats properly. Do you know how this is 
done? 

The tender cuts should be used for broiling, griddle-^ 
broiling, or roasting; the tougher ones for stewing 
and for grinding into meat suitable for meat loaves 


Digitized 


V Gougle 


165 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



or hamburgers. Chapter 9 tells you which cuts are best 
for these various uses. Cut the meat into equal-sized 
pieces so it will all be done at about the same time. 

You can improve lean meat by inserting lard be- 
tween the tissues with a larding needle. Be sure to 
save any excess fat. Fats are rich in calories and can 
be used for cooking. 

The seasoning of meat can be done satisfactorily at 
any time. You’ll probably find it more convenient to 
do it at the beginning of the cooking. 

Pork, veal, mutton, and fowl must always be welF 
done. There are no Exce:ptions to this rule. You may 
prepare beef rare, medium, or well done. A good meat 
thermometer will help you determine the various 
stages. 

If carving is necessary, let the meat set for 30 
minutes after it is done. Then begin carving — the job 
of cutting will be much easier. Carve the meat across 
the grain. Keep meat hot if it is to be served hot. 

Basically, there are only two methods for cooking 
meat — by dry heat and by moist heat. Cooking with 
dry heat includes roasting, broiling, and griddle broil- 
ing. Cooking with moist heat includes braising and 
cooking in water. 


HOW TO ROAST MEAT 


Roast meat in the ovens at a constant temperature 
of from 300° to 350° F. Don’t let your oven tempera- 
ture go higher. At these low temperatures, there will 
be relatively little shrinkage, the meat will be juicy, 
and it will be uniformly done throughout. In addition, 
you will not have to watch it constantly. Figure 148 
shows you how a roast cooked at a low temperature 
compares with a similar roast cooked at a high tem- 
perature. Notice the excellent appearance of the roast 
cooked at a low temperature. 

The amount of time that you keep the roast in the 
oven depends on the temperature of the oven, the 


166 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



weight and shape of the roast, and the kind of meat — 
and whether you want the meat rare, medium, or well- 
done. Boneless meat must be roasted somewhat longer 
than meat containing bones. A small roast requires 
more minutes of roasting per pound than a large one. 
A lean roast gets done more quickly than a fat one. 
Look at the timetable for roasting on page 94 of your 
1944 Navy Cook Book. It will help you decide how 
long to leave the meat in the oven. A meat thermome- 
ter, inserted in the center of the main muscle away 
from bones and fat will tell you when the roast is 
done. If the thermometer reads 140“ F., the meat is 
rare; if it reads 160° F. it’s medium; and at 170° F., 
it’s well done. 

COOKED AT COOKED AT 



300® F 


450®E 


Figure 148. — High temperature vs. low temperature roasting. 


Searing the meat by subjecting it to a very high 
oven heat for a few minutes is not necessary. This 
method does not seal in the juices. Both roast and 
drippings will be sufficiently browned if a constant 
low temperature is used. 

Always place the meat in an open roasting pan with 
the fat side up. Don’t cover the pan at any time during 
the entire cooking period. A covered roast is not really 
roasted at all. It is braised, making it a pot roast. If a 
roasting-pan rack is available, use it. Then you will 
get an even browning over the entire surface. 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


167 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Do not add liquid to the meat. Enough fat and 
juices will drip from the meat during the roasting 
period to keep it from burning or from sticking to the 
pan. As the meat roasts, the melted surface fat and 
juices penetrate the meat. Thus basting is done natu- 
rally without any periodic pouring of fat over the 
meat by hand. 


HOW TO BROIL MEAT 

Broil meat by cooking it directly over hot coals or 
directly under either a gas flame or an electric heating 
unit. Use thick slices of meat — 1 to 2 inches thick. 
Lamb chops are an exception. They may be broiled if 
they are not less than H of an inch thick. Don’t try to 
broil thin steaks or chops as they will cook through 
completely before the outside is brown. 

You can broil sliced liver — whether beef, veal, or 
pork. Other cuts of veal or pork must be cooked 
done: and should neve:r be broiled. 

Now for the actual broiling. Pre-heat the broiler to 
550° F. After making several cuts in the fat edge of 
the meat to keep it from curling, lay the meat on the 
broiler rack. Put the broiler rack in position so as to 
leave from 2 to 3 inches of space between the meat 
and the heat unit. When the upper side of the meat is 
nicely browned, pull the rack out, salt the meat, and 
turn it over. (Lower side if meat is over hot coals.) 
Then broil the other side. Salt the meat when done 
and serve immediately. 


HOW TO GRIDDLE BROIL 

You can griddle-broil meats by cooking them on a 
heated metal surface. Place the meat on the un- 
GREASED griddle. Cook it slowly. As the meat cooks, 
turn it frequently to develop the flavor and to obtain 
more even browning and cooking. Pour or scrape off 
the fat drippings as fast as they accumulate. Don’t 


168 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



add water and keep the meat uncovered. Season each 
side with salt and pepper as soon as it is browned. 


HOW TO FRY MEAT 

Properly fried meat has a crisp, brown outside 
covering and an excellent flavor. Do not fry meat 
that is more than V 2 inch thick. 

Frying is much like griddle-broiling. The only dif- 
ference is that the meat is cooked in a small amount 
of fat. This method of cooking is often called 
SAUTEING. Be sure the fat is hot before you place the 
meat in it — otherwise the meat will absorb much of 
the fat and will be unappetizing. 

Deep-fat frying involves the complete covering of 
the meat with hot fat. Meat prepared in this manner 
should be breaded. 

The three types of meat most commonly braised 
are pot roasts, chops, and some of the tougher steaks. 
Make the tough steaks a bit more tender before brais- 
ing by pounding them or by putting them through a 
cubing machine. Brown the meat thoroughly on all 
sides in a hot greased pan to develop flavor and color. 
When it is browned, add a smale amount of liquid to 
the pan. Put a tight-fitting cover over the pan to hold 
the moisture in. Keep the temperature at a point 
where the liquid will simmer but will not boil (185° 
to 200° F.). Cook the meat until it is tender. You may 
need to add a little liquid from time to time. 

The drippings in the braising pan contain both 
flavor and food value — so save them for gravy or 
sauces. Serve gravy or sauce with braised meat. 


HOW TO STEW MEAT 

Cooking in water includes stewing and simmering. 
Small pieces of meat cooked in water are said to be 
STEWED — large pieces are said to be simmered. In 
both cases the meat is just covered with water, which 


Digitized 


V Google 


169 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



is already heated to the simmering temperature (185° 
to 200° F.). This temperature is maintained constantly 
until the meat is done. It usually takes 1 ^ to 2 hours. 
Make your stews from the less tender cuts of beef, 
veal, or lamb — never use pork for a stew. 

To get the added flavor of a brown stew, brown the 
pieces of meat before you add the water. Like soups, 
stews give you a chance for much variety. All sorts of 
herbs and spices can be used for seasoning. And vege- 
tables, such as carrots, peas, onions, tomatoes, beans, 
and potatoes, can be added to give good combinations. 

Be sure you select vegetables that differ in color, 
texture and flavor. You might use celery, green pep- 
pers, potatoes, and tomatoes in combination. Don’t use 
combinations of potatoes, turnips, and rutabagas — 
they are too much alike for good results. Cut the vege- 
tables into different sizes and shapes in order to pro- 
vide additional contrasts. 

Partially cook the meat before adding the vege- 
tables — then the two will be done at the same time. 
You can provide additional variety by adding dump- 
lings, baking powder biscuits, noodles, spaghetti, or 
macaroni. A meat pie is really a stew topped with a 
crust or with baking powder biscuits. 

Simmering is used most frequently in preparing 
cured pork and beef cuts and in cooking variety meats, 
such as tongue and heart. Smoked ham that has been 
simmered is improved by covering it with a mixture 
of brown sugar and flour and putting it in the oven 
to brown. 


SMOKED HAM 

Smoked ham — whether commercial, domestic, or 
regular cure — has a low salt content. It is suitable for 
baking without parboiling or soaking beforehand. 
However, smoked hams need a bit of preparation be- 
fore they are cooked. 


170 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



If a smoked ham is frozen, defrost it completely 
before doing anything else. Then remove the hock at 



STIFLE JOINT 


LEG BONE 


AITCH BONE 


Figure 149. — Removing hock. 


the Stifle joint (figure 149). Leave as much meat as 
possible on the cushion section. Trim off the outside 
skin and remove any outside fat that is over inch 
thick. Take out the aitch bone (figure 150). Loosen 



Figure 150. — Taking out aitch bone. 


Digitized bfy 



171 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



the meat around the knuckle ends of the leg (round) 
bone (figure 150). 

All this cutting helps you in several ways. The 
hams require less space in the oven. They will be 
easier to carve. The shanks can be held back for 
seasoning purposes. The surplus fat can be rendered 
and used for frying and baking. Also you avoid the 
possibility of cooking spoiled hams because you get a 
check on the appearance of the interior of the ham 
around the leg bone. 

THE OVERSEAS HAM 

The overseas ham is a specially cured ham with a 
high salt content. If it has been out of cure for only a 
short time, it may be cooked whole. But before placing 
the ham in the oven, you should boil it in water for 
about an hour or soak it overnight in cold water. 
(Throw this water away.) Either treatment will re- 
move some of the salt content. 

If the ham has been packed in salt for a month or 
longer, it is almost impossible to cook the ham whole 
with good results. Therefore, cut it into slices not over 
1 inch thick. Boil these slices in water before you cook 
them in the oven. 


POULTRY 

You need remember only two general rules for 
cooking poultry. 

First, use moderate heat (325° to 350° F.) so the 
meat will be juicy, tender, and evenly done through- 
out. This rule holds for birds of all ages and kinds 
from the spring chicken to the old hen. 

Second, vary the cooking method according to the 
age and fatness of the bird. Broiling, frying, and 
roasting are best for young, tender, well-fatted birds. 
Braising in a covered pan makes lean young birds and 
old birds just past their prime both tender and savory. 


172 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Very old birds need long, slow cooking in water of 
steam to make them tender all through. Then they 
may be fricasseed, creamed, or curried. 

Your Navy Cook Book gives you the details for 
many methods of cooking. But, before cooking, the 
poultry needs a bit of preparation. 

PREPARING POULTRY FOR COOKING 

Poultry received by the Navy has usually been 
killed and bled, then dressed and either chilled or 
frozen. Dressed means that the feathers only have 
been removed. A few things must be done before the 
bird is ready for cooking. 

First of all, singe and wash it thoroughly. The 
singeing is done by holding the bird over a flame and 
turning the bird so that all parts of it come in contact 
with the flame. This singeing removes the fine hair 
and feathers which were not removed during the 
dressing process. 



Chop off the bird’s head with a cleaver or heavy 
butcher knife. Then, if it is chicken or duck, remove 
the feet by cutting through the hock joint (figure 

151 ). 

The legs of turkeys contain a number of heavy 
tendons that must also be removed. To do this, loosen 
the skin and the ligaments on each side of the hock 
joints with a knife. Then twist the feet until they are 


Digitized 


V Google 


173 

Original 1tDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



free except for the tendons. Hang the turkey up by 
the feet. Pull downward on the turkey until the ten- 
dons pull out of the leg muscles. These tendons will 
come loose from the turkey and remain attached to 
the feet. 



SLIT FOR 
REMOVAL OF CROP 
AND GULLET 

Figure 152. — Slit in neck skin. 

Now, for all poultry, make a slit in the neck skin 
— all the way back to the shoulder (figure 152). Free 
the neck skin, gullet, windpipe, and crop from the neck. 



TRUSSING 

Figure 153. — Cuts to be made for drawing. 

Pull the gullet, windpipe, and crop as far as pos- 
sible from the body. Be careful not to tear the crop. 
Cut and remove. 



Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Remove the neck from the body at the shoulder by 
cutting through the neck muscle. Twist to separate the 
vertebrae and pull the neck loose. 

The insides must be removed next. This process is 
called DRAWING. Make a cut around the vent with a 
sharp pointed knife (figure 153). Then cut across the 
abdomen through the inside body fat {A-B in figure 

Don’t cut any deeper than the fat. Insert your 
finger and loosen the intestines all around the inside 
of the body. Lift the lungs that are attached to the 
ribs. Remove the gizzard and all the other entrails 
at one time. 

Cut out the oil sac — on the back just above the tail. 



Figure 154. — Removing oil sac. 


See figure 154. Wash the carcass inside and out. Do 
it quickly but thoroughly. Do not soak. Separate the 
giblets — gizzard, heart and liver — from the entrails. 
Always use the giblets — they have a good flavor as 
well as a high nutritive value. 


PREPARING AND COOKING THE GIBLETS 

Before the liver can be used, the bile sac must be 
cut away. This bile sac is found on the under side of 
the liver. You can recognize it by its greenish brown 
or yellow color. To remove the bile sac, slip your knife 
carefully under it and cut it away. At the same time 
cut away any part of the liver that may be stained 
by contact with the bile sac. Whatever you do — don’t 


Digitized 


V Google 


17 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



let the sac break. If this should happen accidentally, 
throw away any part of the chicken on which the bile 
falls. 

Cut the fat away from the gizzard. Then cut into 
one of the gizzard’s thick sides as far as the inner 
sac — don’t cut into this sac. Put your thumbs on 
either side of this cut and pull the sides of the gizzard 
away until the inner sac drops out. Throw this sac 
away. 

Slit the heart open and remove the blood vessels 
and any blood clots that might be present. Then wash 
all the giblets in cold water. 

Now for the cooking. Place the giblets in a kettle 
containing just enough salted water to cover them. 
Let the giblets simmer until they become tender. This 
takes from 1 to 1/^ hours for chicken giblets and 
from 2 to 3 hours for turkey giblets. Then you can 
chop or grind them and add them to the gravy or 
serve them just as they are. 

Use the bones and feet for making soup stock. 
Be sure to skin the feet before using. 

HOW TO TRUSS FOR ROASTING 

Poultry to be roasted requires trussing for best 
results. Cut the skin at the abdomen above the tail, 
parallel to the cut made for drawing. Look again at 
figure 153. Put the drumstick ends through the slits 
so that the ends extend underneath the strip of skin. 
In this position the legs are held close to the body 
during cooking. Draw the neck skin over the front 
opening and onto the back. Fold the wings into place. 


HOW TO PREPARE BROILERS 

Broilers require a little different preparation. After 
singeing and washing, lay the bird on its side. Cut 
off the tail. Cut at an angle so that both the oil sac 
and the vent are included with the tail. Then make 


176 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




backbone in one piece. Save the neck and backbone 
for soup. Now, chop off the head. Open the bird and 
remove the entrails. Be sure to lift out the lungs. 


cuts from the neck down on both sides of the back- 
bone (figure 155). 

Grab the head and rip out the back, neck, and 


Figure 155. — Cutting on both sides of backbone. 


Figure 156. — Cutting off the legs. 


Flatten the bird by breaking or chopping the wish- 
bone. Snap the joints to keep the bird flattened during 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


177 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 


the cooking. Separate the giblets from the entrails. 
Be sure to cut out the bile sac from the liver and 
throw the bile sac away. 

Finally, wash the bird quickly but thoroughly. Do 
not soak. 


HOW TO DISJOINT FRYERS AND FOWLS 

Cut fryers and fowls into 12 pieces. First of all, 
remove each wing at the joint next to the body. 
Disjoint the legs at the back (figure 156) and cut 
each leg at the knee so as to form two pieces. 


BREAST 



Figure 157. — Cut to separate back from breast. 


Make an incision through the thin muscle tissue at 
the rear of the breast or “knee” bone {A in figure 

157 ). 

BREAST 



RIBS 

Figure 158. — Breast separated from ribs. 

Pass the knife forward and downward to the junc- 
ture of the last rib and back {A-B in figure 157). 

Repeat this cut on the opposite side. Bend the back 
and break it at the cut just made. Remove the intestine, 
giblets, and lungs. 

178 


Digitized by kjOOQie 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Separate the breast from the part of the back 
containing the ribs as shown in figure 158. Then cut 
the breast into three pieces as indicated by the dotted 
lines in figure 159. Make the cut from A to B first. 


BREAST 



Figure 159. — Cutting the breast. 

You now should have the 1 2 pieces shown in figure 
160. You also have the giblets, of course. 

FISH 

Fish is an excellent source of protein. As much 
as K of the total unit of protein needed by a sailor 
in a day may be furnished by one meal of fish. Yet, 
ordinarily, the men don’t go for the fish as they do 
for good steaks. You’ll need to prepare fish carefully 
and well. 

As a rule, fat fish are best for baking and broiling. 
The lean fish are most suitable for boiling, steaming, 
and chowders. Both fat and lean fish can be fried. 
Your Navy Cook Book gives you the details for 
handling fish by the various methods. 

HOW TO PREPARE FISH 

Fish need to be finned. To do this, cut into the 
flesh of the fish at each side of the base of the larger 


Digitized 


V Google 


179 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




Figure 160 . — Chicken cut into pieces for frying. 


fins. Grab the rear part of the fin and give a sudden 
jerk forward toward the head of the fish. This should 
remove both fin bones and fins. 

To fillet or bone a fish, cut down the flesh just 
behind the head until the knife reaches the back- 
bone. Then turn the knife flat and cut the flesh along 
the backbone to the tail (figure 161). Lift ofif the 
whole side of the fish in one piece. Turn the fish over 
and loosen the meat from the other side in the same 
way. Take out any small bones that may remain. 


180 

Digitized by Goi>^ 


gle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Remove the skin by first dipping the fish in boiling 
water for a few minutes. Place the fillet with the 



skin side down and loosen the skin from the meat 
by holding the knife flat against the skin. Start at 
either end of the fillet. 

VEGETABLES 

Vegetables add to a meal in many ways. They 
make for variety and interest. They add color and 
flavor. Best of all, they increase the nutritive value 
of the meal. But — all of these values may be lost by 
careless handling and improper cooking. 

Vegetables are bought by the Navy in the follow- 
ing forms — canned, dehydrated, quick-frozen, and 
fresh. The canned vegetables have been cooked in 
the container and need only to be brought to boiling 
temperature just before serving. Avoid overcooking 
as you would smallpox. Retain the liquid from canned 
vegetables for use in soups, sauces, and gravies. 

Most DEHYDRATED vegetables need special treat- 
ment. Your cookbook gives you individual recipes. 
With few exceptions, you prepare them like this: 
Soak the measured quantity of the vegetable in the 
proper amount of water for the length of time given 
in the recipe. Use lukewarm water. Stir thoroughly 

181 


Digitized bfy 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



every 10 minutes to make sure the water is properly 
absorbed by the vegetable. During this soaking period 
the dehydrated vegetables are said to be recon- 
stituted. After this soaking period, add salt and 
heat slowly to the boiling temperature. Let the vege- 
tables simmer only until they are tender. Then season 
and serve as you would a cooked fresh vegetable. 
When vegetables are dehydrated they lose some of 
their flavor and odor. Use additional seasonings, 
therefore, to help provide flavor. 

Quick-frozen vegetables have the appearance and 
flavor of fresh vegetables. In addition, they are easier 
to handle than fresh vegetables because frozen vege- 
tables have already been thoroughly cleaned and 
trimmed. Unless defrosting is necessary, they can 
be cooked just like fresh vegetables. Follow the direc- 
tions given on the containers or on page 248 of the 
Navy Cook Book, 

m 

SELECTING VEGETABLES FOR COOKING 

Either select vegetables about equal in size or 
cut them into pieces of equal size. Then all the vege- 
tables will be uniformly cooked in the same length 
of time. 


PREPARING VEGETABLES FOR COOKING 

Cook vegetables with the peel on when possible — 
especially potatoes. If you must peel potatoes, do it 
very carefully so as to procure thin peelings — much 
of the food value lies close to the skin. 

Wash all vegetables thoroughly. Use a vegetable 
brush to clean celery, carrots, beets, and potatoes. 
Soak asparagus, broccoli, cauliflower, brussels 
sprouts, and French artichokes in salted, cold water 
(1 tablespoon of salt per quart) about 30 to 60 
minutes. Such soaking eliminates worms and insects. 
Wash spinach, kale, beet tops, and similar greens 

182 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



in cold water several times to remove dirt and sand 
particles. Lift the greens from the water instead of 
“running the watefr off” the greens. 

Vegetables should be kept in a cool storage room 
until ready to prepare for cooking. If the vegetables 
get wilted they can be crisped and freshened by plac- 
ing them in ice-cold water or between layers of crushed 
ice. When freshened, they should be covered with 
a clean damp cloth and placed in a cool storage room 
until ready to use. 

Keep the time between preparation and cooking 
as short as possible. Valuable vitamins are lost when 
vegetables are soaked too long or are allowed to 
remain in warm temperatures for several hours. 

NOW YOU’RE COOKING 

Cook only a small amount of vegetables at a time. 
Use as little water as possible. Have the water salted 
and boiling before adding the vegetables. Do not 
add soda to the water — soda destroys vitamins and 
makes the vegetables mushy. Cook them only until 
they are tender. Over-cooked vegetables are not as 
attractive, palatable, or nutritious as those cooked for 
the proper length of time. 

Serve the vegetables as soon as they are done. 
Long standing on a steam table causes loss of both 
flavor and vitamins. Add melted butter or sauces 
just before serving. Taste the finished product — if 
necessary add salt or extra seasoning. Avoid over 
seasoning. 


THE NAVY COOK BOOK WAY 

The Fresh Vegetable Guide on page 244 of your 
cook book indicates the amounts of the common fresh 
vegetables needed for 100 portions. Weights of por- 
tions are for cooked vegetables. Weights of servings 
of baked vegetables served whole, such as potatoes, 


Digitized 


V Google 


n 183 

Origins om 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



depend upon the size of the individual vegetables. 

Page 245 of the cook book also gives you a chart 
showing the weights and yields of canned vegetables. 
And a time table for cooking fresh vegetables is 
shown on page 246. Make use of these. 


FRUITS 

“An apple a day keeps the doctor away.” This 
MAY OR MAY NOT be true. But fruit — not just apples — 
should appear on the menu every day. They add 
color, variety, food value, and a refreshing flavor 
to any meal. They fit into all three of your daily meals. 
At breakfast fruits can be served alone or in com- 
bination with cereal. For dinner or supper they may 
be used as a first course or as a salad or dessert. 
Combining two or three cooked fruits makes a pleas- 
ing light dessert for the main meal. 

Fruits are supplied to the Navy in the fresh state 
or quick-frozen, canned, or dried. Fresh and canned 
fruits may be combined to vary the flavor and texture. 

At breakfast, fruit juices may be served as the 
first course; and at dinner or supper as the main 
beverage or in place of soup. 


HOW TO PREPARE FRUITS 

Prepare the fruits just before you are ready to 
use them. Even then, some fruits may discolor before 
they can be served. Fully ripe fruit does not discolor 
as rapidly as under-ripe fruit. 

To obtain fully ripe bananas, hold the green-tipped 
or all-yellow fruit at room temperature — 68** F. to 
70° F. — until the skins are well flecked with brown. 

Discoloration in apples and pears can be avoided 
by placing the cut pieces in a solution of salt and 
water for a few minutes just before using. Allow 1 
teaspoon of salt to 1 quart of cold water. To avoid 
discoloration, sprinkle avocados, bananas, and peaches 


184 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



with fresh or canned grapefruit juice, lemon or 
orange juice, or canned pineapple juice. Dipping the 
cut pieces into any of these juices will give you the 
same effect. 

SALADS 

Is a salad just a side dish? Absolutely not. Salads 
have an important place on the menu. They add some- 
thing both nutritious and refreshing to the dinner 
or supper meal. 

Fruit and vegetable salads are the most popular. 
They are also one of the best means of introducing 
valuable vitamins, necessary minerals — and color — 
into the meal. 

Best of all — salads can be made quickly and easily 
if a few simple rules are followed. 

THE SALAD GREENS 

Select your salad greens carefully. You have a 
wide choice of greens suitable for a salad foundation 
— lettuce, endive, romaine, escarole, watercress, 
young spinach, and cabbage. These may also be used 
as one of the main ingredients of the salad itself. 
Parsley, watercress, and the inner tender leaves of 
curly endive are good for a garnish. 

Sort, trim, wash, and crisp the greens before mak- 
ing the salad. Wash them carefully to free them of 
sand and earth particles. Drain well. Cut the lettuce 
and cabbage into strips or pieces — or shred them 
when they are to be used as one of the main ingre- 
dients. 

Place the prepared greens in pans. Cover them 
with wax-paper, if available, then with a clean, damp 
cloth. Put them in a refrigerator to chill and crisp 
before using. They should be free of excess water. 
And they should be one of the very last parts of the 
meal to be prepared. 


Digitized 


V Google 


185 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



FRUITS AND VEGETABLES FOR THE SALAD 

Select fruits and vegetables with care. Wash thern 
thoroughly. Trim and peel if necessary. Cut them 
into uniform sizes. Cook those vegetables which need 
cooking. Cover the prepared material and place in 
the refrigerator to be chilled. Do this before com- 
bining with salad greens and dressing. 

MIXING THE SALAD 

Mix the salad carefully just before serving. 
Combine the prepared, chilled ingredients in small 
amounts at a time. Mix or toss them lightly together. 
Use a large fork to thoroughly distribute the ingre- 
dients and dressing. 


MIX IT UP 

The salad dressing is as important as the salad 
itself. Each type dressing can take on a new flavor 
by the addition of various seasonings and herbs. 
That’s one way of getting variety. 

As a rule, add the dressing to a fruit or raw vege- 
table salad the very jast thing — not more than 5 
minutes before you are ready to serve the salad. 
Follow this rule strictly. However, exceptions may 
be made for meat, fish, cooked vegetables, and potato 
salad. For these salads, the dressing should be added 
about 1 hour in advance of serving, and the salad 
mixture then placed in a refrigerator to be chilled. 
The flavors of meat, fish, and potato salads will be 
considerably improved by following this procedure. 


RELISHES 

Relishes are good to use in place of or with a 
salad. Raw carrots sliced lengthwise, celery, radishes, 
olives, and pickles make excellent relishes. Some of 


186 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



these have high food value as well. They all increase 
the attractiveness of a meal. 

DESSERTS 

A good dessert rounds out the meal and makes up 
for weaknesses you have have in other parts of the 
meal. Serve a light dessert with a heavy meal and 
a heavy dessert with a light meal. Sweet, rich des- 
serts go well with a light evening meal. 

Good cakes and pies are always welcomed by the 
men. They are discussed in Chapter 12 of this book. 
Ice cream and sherbert are especially good during 
warm weather. Your Navy Cook Book gives you 
recipes for these. Fruits served raw or in gelatin 
combinations are always suitable. 

A great variety of handy desserts can be made 
from basic sweet dough. 

NAVY COFFEE— THE PEP DRINK 

Navy coffees, good old “Joe,” is famous. Follow 
a few simple rules and you won’t have any trouble 
making excellent coffee. 

Coffee is delicate and perishable. It loses its flavor 
and aroma rapidly when exposed to the air after 
it is ground. Therefore, grind up the coffee beans 
only as you need the coffee. If coffee deliveries are 
made in airtight containers, see that these containers 
are kept tightly covered. 

When making coffee, follow the recipes given in 
the Navy Cook Book. Always measure both the cof- 
fee and water. Use fresh coffee at all times. Keep 
the coffee covered while it is brewing. Don’t allow 
the coffee to remain in contact with the boiling water 
as the flavor and aroma boil off. Remove the grounds 
as soon as the coffee is made as seepage from these 
grounds ruin the flavor. 

Most important of all, keep the coffff-making 


Digitized t 


739872°— 47 13 

. Google 


187 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



EQUIPMENT absolutely clean. Wash the urn with 
clear, hot water after each use. Twice every 24 hours 
wash it with hot water and urn powder. Never use 
soap or soap powder. Rinse thoroughly with clear 
water. 

Remove the urn faucet once a day. Scrub it with 
hot water, washing soda, and a brush. Use 1 table- 
spoon of washing soda for each quart of water. Be 
sure to rinse thoroughly. 

Clean the glass gages at least twice a week with 
a brush, hot water, and washing soda. 

Rinse the urn bag in clear, cold water after each 
use. When not in use, keep the bag in cold water. 
Renew the cloth bag often. 

GLASS COFFEE MAKERS 

The bowls of glass colfee makers should be washed 
in clear, hot water. Rinse the filter cloth in cold 
water. Renew this cloth often. Scald all new filter 
cloths before using. Never allow them to dry. Keep 
them submerged in clear, cold water. 

Be sure that the outside of the glass bowls are 
thoroughly dry before you place them over the heat. 
Never allow an empty bowl to remain over the heat. 
When using the coffee maker on an oil range, place 
it over a low flame. 

After removing the glass coffee maker from the 
heating unit, always put it on a rubber, asbestos, or 
cork mat. The glass may break if you place the hot 
container on a cold surface. 


OTHER DRINKS 

Make tea just before you are ready to serve it. 
Be sure you use fresh water. Put the tea leaves in 
water that is just below the boiling point. Never 
boil after adding tea leaves. Use the tea leaves only 
once. 


188 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



When preparing iced tea, sweeten the tea while 
it is still hot so the sugar will dissolve readily. Cool 
with cracked ice. Make tea to be iced a little stronger 
than hot tea as the ice weakens the tea. 

Le^monadk can be made with lemons or with the 
Navy issue of synthetic lemon juice powder. This 
synthetic powder will make six times as much lemon- 
ade as the straight lemon juice powder. Follow your 
Navy Cook Book recipe. 

Chocoi^ate milk can be made by adding chocolate 
sirup to milk which has been heated To the boiling 
temperature. The Navy Cook Book tells you how 
to make the sirup. 

Cocoa is made from a paste of cocoa, sugar, and 
salt mixed with milk that has been heated to the 
boiling temperature. Stir the paste into the milk and 
beat with a wire whip. 

GRAVIES AND SAUCES 

Gravies and sauces are used to add flavor to the 
meal and to provide a contrasting texture. They also 
add variety. 

Use cream sauces for vegetables and either cream 
sauces or gravies with meats. 

To make gravy, thicken the juice of roasted meats. 
Meat stock, prepared beforehand, may be used in 
place of or as part of this juice. Season properly to 
fit the type of meat served. 

Cream sauce is made by mixing flour and butter 
or other fat and adding hot milk. Blend the flour 
and butter carefully to a smooth paste. Stir it grad- 
ually into the hot milk in order to avoid lumps. 

SANDWICHES 

Sandwiches provide good food in convenient form 
for use during an emergency. They can also be used 
as the main item in a meal when served with hot 
vegetables, a salad, and dessert. 


Digitized 


V Google 


189 

Original 1tDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Have plenty of work space and all the materials 
ready before you begin to make the sandwiches. Use 
day old bread if possible. Soften the butter by placing 
it in a warm place. Then whip it until it becomes 
creamy. This enables you to spread it easily. Spread 
the butter from the corners and edges toward the 
center. The butter will prevent the sandwich filling 
from soaking into the bread. 

Make the sandwich fillings just before using, if 
possible. Fillings made with meat, egg or fish spoil 
fast if allowed to remain in a warm temperature. 
When it is necessary to keep sandwiches for 1 to 2 
hours before using, place them in a refrigerator 
immediately after making. Keep them there until 
you are ready to use them. 


BREAKFAST CEREALS 

Breakfast cereals put the zip into breakfast. In 
addition to furnishing food energy, the whole grain 
cereals and restored breakfast foods supply valuable 
vitamins, minerals, and protein. When served with 
milk or milk and fruit, they are even better. There 
are three main types of breakfast cereals — -regular, 
quick-cooking, and prepared. 

The regular cereals include rolled oats, corn meal, 
farina, and cracked whole wheat. These require com- 
plete cooking. This takes from 20 minutes to an 
hour. See page 24 of the Navy Cook Book. These 
cereals are served hot. 

The quick-cooking cereals are partly cooked before 
packaging. Rolled oats and wheat cereals are included 
here. Only 5 to 10 minutes of cooking is required. 

Either the regular or quick-cooking cereals may 
be used in meat loaves or added to soups. Cooked 
cereals such as corn meal or farina may be placed 
in pans and chilled. After lhat they may be sliced 
and fried and served with sirup, powdered sugar, 
or fruit sauce. 


190 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



The prepared, ready-to-eat cereals are the pack- 
aged, dry kind. They are made from wheat, corn, 
rice, barley, oats, and rye. They are fully cooked 
and flavored. You can make dry cereals more appetiz- 
ing by removing them from the packages and reheat- 
ing them. Dump them into baking pans and place 
in a slow oven (325** F.) for about 5 minutes. 

EGGS 

Ham and fresh eggs, bacon and fresh eggs are 
welcomed wholeheartedly by the men. And the eggs 
are especially good suppliers of protein and minerals. 
Eggs, like every other food must be prepared right 
if best results are to be expected. Your Navy Cook 
Book tells you how to prepare them in many differ- 
ent ways. 

When several eggs are to be stirred, mixed or 
beaten together, they should be broken into a small 
bowl first one at a time. This will give you a chance 
to destroy any bad egg that turns up without spoil- 
ing any others. 

Scrambling powdered eggs so that the men will 
like them is your hardest job. Follow the recipe care- 
fully. If possible, prepare no more then 25 portions 
at one time. Prepare the eggs less than 10 minutes 
before serving. They toughen up if they are allowed 
to stand around. Always reconstitute the powdered 
eggs carefully with cool water. After reconstitution, 
use them within 1 hour. Try adding diced, cooked 
bacon or ham, sausages, luncheon meat, or cheese 
in order to improve the flavor. 


Digitized 


V Google 


191 

Original 1tDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Digitized bfy 


Go(.»gle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



CHAPTER II 


THE ARITHMETIC OF RECIPES 

A BIT OF FIGURING 

The recipes in the Navy Cook Book are set up for 
100 men. But, you don’t usually have exactly 100 
men to feed. How then are you going to use these 
recipes? A bit of figuring is necessary. There are 
at least two good reasons why guess work won’t do. 

The cook book recipes have been carefully made 
out to give the best results possible. If you change 
the proportions of the ingredients, you can’t expect 
to get good results. Also, the preparation of too little 
food leaves the men hungry and dissatisfied. You 
can’t get away with that for very long. On the other 
hand, the preparation of too much food results in 
waste. Over a period of time this waste may become 
tremendous. And, using spoiled left-over food is 
worse than throwing food away^ — food poisoning 
may result. 

UNITS OF MEASURE 

The most common units of measure used in cook- 
ing are gallons, quarts, pints, cups, tablespoons, tea- 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


193 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



spoons, pounds, and ounces. Lots of times you’ll find 
the numbers easier to handle if you change the given 
unit to the next smaller unit. For example, change 
gallons to quarts, pounds to ounces. This is easily 
done. To change — 


MULTIPLY BY 


Gallons to quarts 4 

Quarts to pints 2 

Pints to cups : 2 

Cups to tablespoons 16 

Tablespoons to teaspoons 3 

Pounds to ounces 16 


Take a few minutes to memorize these figures so 
you won’t have to turn to this table every time you 
need to reduce a unit of measure. 

Now follow through some examples and you’ll 
see exactly what needs to be done. You’ll find that 
the work is very much like what you had to do when 
figuring how much to order for the galley. See pages 
50 to 53 of this book. 

The Navy Cook Book recipe for vegetable soup 
calls for 5 gallons of beef stock for 100 portions. 
For 25 portions, use K of the recipe, for 50 portions, 
use Vz of the recipe, and for 75 portions, use Y\ of 
the recipe. These fractions are easy to handle. But 
suppose you’re feeding 17 men. What then? 


VEGETABLE SOUP FOR 17 MEN 

First of all, change the gallons to quarts. 

5 X 4 — 20 quarts. 

Then multiply the 20 by 17, the number of portions 
you need, like this — 

20 X 17 = 340 

Place a decimal point in front of the second number 
from the right and you have 3.40 quarts — the 


194 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



amount you need for 17 men. Three quarts is easy 
to measure, but the .40 is not so easy. The following 
table will help you change the .40 and other decimals 
to fractional parts you can easily measure. 

•1 to *3 — ^ 

.3 to ,7 — ^ 

•7 to .9 — ^ 

.9 to 1.1 — 1 

So — ^you’ll measure out VA quarts of soup stock. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS FOR 63 MEN 

Here’s another problem. Suppose you needed to 
prepare scrambled eggs for 63 men. 

The recipe for scrambled eggs is given on page 
62 of your 1944 Navy Cook Book. How much of 
each of the ingredients are you going to need? 
Eggs — The 100 portion recipe calls for 240 eggs. 
You have only 63 men so you multiply — 

240 X 63 = 15,120 

Put the decimal point in front of the last two num- 
bers. This gives you 151.20 eggs. You can’t take a 
fractional part of an egg. So use 151 eggs. 

Certainly you aren’t going to count out 151 eggs, 
one by one. That’s a waste of time. A case of eggs 
contains 30 dozen eggs — 15 dozen on each side. Each 
side has 5 layers, 3 dozen to the layer. Divide the 
151 by 12 to find the number of dozen you want. 


151 -i-12 = 12 dozen plus 7 eggs. 


You’ll need 4 layers to get the 12 dozen. Then count 
out 1 more eggs from another layer to get the num- 
ber you need. 


195 


Digitized 


V Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Salt — Six tablespoons of salt is specified in the 
recipe. 

6 X 63 = 378 

Put in the decimal point to get 3.78. So 3 H table- 
spoons of salt will be needed. 

Pepper — Only H of a tablespoon of pepper is re- 
quired for 100 portions. 

% X63 = 47M»say47 

Put in the decimal point and you have .47. So you’ll 
need 3^ tablespoon of pepper. 

Milk — T he Cook Book recipe calls for 2/4 gallons 
of milk. Change this amount to quarts. 

2^ X 4 = 10 quarts. 

Now, multiply by 63. 

10 X 63 = 630 

Put in the decimal point and you have 6.30. You’ll 
need 6>4 quarts of milk. 

Butter or other eat, melted — One hundred por- 
tions require 2 pounds and 8 ounces of butter or 
other fat. Change the pounds to ounces- — like this — 

2 X 16 = 32 

Add the 8 ounces — 

32 + 8 = 40 ounces. 

Multiply by the number of men — 

40 X 63 = 2520 

Put in the decimal point and you have 25.20 ounces. 
So, 2534 ounces or 1 pound and 9H ounces of butter 
is needed. 

196 

Digitized by Google 




ON YOUR OWN 


Now work out the scrambled egg recipe for a 
general mess feeding 83 men. Remember the steps — 

1, Reduce the unit of measure used in the recipe 

to the next smaller unit whenever the ori- 
ginal unit is too large for convenient meas- 
urements. 

2. If the number of men to be fed is a simple 

fractional part of 100, multiply this frac- 
tion by the recipe amounts. If the number 
is not a simple fractional part of 100, do 
this — 

(a) Multiply the quantity required for 

100 portions by the number of 
men. 

(b) Place a decimal point in front of 

the second number from the 
right. 

(c) Change any decimals you may 

have in this answer to a frac- 
tion or a whole number — M, 

H or 1. 

Here’s the way your recipe should finally line up — 

SCRAMBLED ECGS 


Ingredients 

Eggs, whole, slightly beaten 

Salt 

Pepper 

Milk, liquid 

Butter or other fat, melted . 


83 Portions 

199 eggs 

(5 layers plus 19 eggs) 

5 tablespoons 

^ tablespoon 

8j4 quarts 

33 ^ ounces 

(2 pounds ounces) 


Try the same recipe for 42 men. Can you get these 
amounts ? 


Digitized 


V Google 


197 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



SCRAMBLED EGGS 


Ingredients 42 Portions 

Eggs, whole, slightly beaten 101 eggs 

(2 layers plus 29 eggs) 

Salt 2)4 tablespoons 

Pepper 1/3 tablespoon, or 1 teaspoon 

Milk, liquid —4)4 quarts 

Butter or other fat, melted 16)4 ounces 

(1 pound, )4 of an ounce) 


MESSES FEEDING 500—1,000 MEN 

So far, you have seen how to handle recipes when 
you have less than 500 men in your mess. But many 
Navy messes serve more than 500 men. Suppose you 
needed to serve hVench pot roast to 525 men. 

Your Navy Cook Book recipe specifies that 40 
pounds of boneless beef should be used for 100 por- 
tions. 

So multiply — 

40 X 525 = 21,000 

Place the decimal point, and you get 210.00 pounds. 
But remember that for messes between 500 and 
1,000 the amount thus found should be reduced by 
5 percent. Like this — 

210 X .05 = 10.5 

Then subtract — 


210 

—10.5 

199.5 

So you’ll need 200 pounds of boneless beef. 


MESSES FEEDING OVER 1,000 MEN 

What would you do if you had to provide French 
pot roast for 1,236 men? In this case multiply the 


198 


Digitized by 


Gougle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



amount needed for 100 portions (40 pounds) by 
the number of men to be fed. 

40 X 1,236 = 49,440 

Put in the decimal point and you get 494.40 pounds. 

But for messes over 1,000, reduce the amount 
thus found by 10 percent. Like this — 

494.40 X .10 = 49.44 

And subtract — 

494.40 
— 49.44 

444.96 

So, you’ll need 445 pounds of boneless beef. 

ON YOUR OWN AGAIN 

Now, how much boneless beef do you need for 
making French pot roast for 727 men? 1,612 men? 
Your answers should be 276/4 pounds and 580/4 
pounds respectively. 


Digitized b'; 


/ Google 


199 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Digitized bfy 


Go(.»gle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



CHAPTER 12 


BAKING 

DO GOOD WORK 

Sure you want to be a good cook. But, you’ll need 
to know how to do a good job of baking, also. In 
fact, on a small ship, you may have to do all the 
cooking and baking. 

Some people have the idea that good baking must 
be complicated. Just the opposite is true. 


WHAT GOES INTO GOOD NAVY BREAD 

Good Navy bread is made from just seven major 
ingredients — yeast, water, sugar, salt, milk, flour, 
and shortening (figure 162 ). 

Your Navy Cook Book gives you two formulas 
for white bread — an average formula and a rich 
formula. The rich formula requires more yeast, sugar, 
milk, and shortening, and less water and salt. Use 
the rich formula when you’re making bread for 
special occasions. In addition the cook book includes 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


20J 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



balanced formulas for nye bread, whole wheat bread, 
field bread, and rolls. 

WHAT BREAD INGREDIENTS DO 

What do the ingredients do, once they^re mixed 
into the bread dough? 

The YEAST causes the dough to become light and 
porous. The process of lightening the dough is called 


Figure 162 . — Ingredients of bread. 



fermentation. Fermentation is caused by the yeast 
feeding on the other ingredients in the dough. As the 
feeding goes on, carbon dioxide gas is formed. This 
gas causes the dough to rise (swell up) and thus 
makes it light and porous. Yeast itself is made up 
of very small living plants — so small they can’t be 
seen with the naked eye. Figure 163 shows how 
these plants look under a microscope. 

The salt helps control the fermentation. Too much 
fermentation is just as bad as too little. The salt 
also improves the flavor and texture of the bread. 

202 


Digitized by Goi^igle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 





The SUGAR furnishes most of the food for the 
yeast. It makes the bread tender and has much to 
do with the development of a good texture. The sugar 
also sweetens the bread and helps give color to the 
crust. Sugar may be supplied in the form of granu- 
lated sugar, confectioner’s sugar, brown sugar, or 
sugar sirup. Sugar sirups include malt, molasses, 
honey, corn sirup, and invert sirup. Turn to page 
316 of your 1944 Navy Cook Book if you wish to 
know more about these sugars. 

The FLOUR absorbs the water and thus provides 
the supporting framework for all the other ingre- 



Figure 163. — Yeast plants. 

dients. The hard wheat flour usually used for bread 
has high protein food value. When enriched, it also 
furnishes valuable vitamins and minerals. 

Shortening makes the bread tender and improves 
its eating and keeping qualities. Without shortening, 
the grain and texture of the bread would be poor. 
The shortening also adds food value. It furnishes 
more calories per pound than any of the other ingre- 
dients. 

Milk adds moisture, richness, and food value. 
The milk is also largely responsible for a good, golden 
brown crust. 

Water provides the additional moisture needed 
to form a dough that is easy to handle. 

739872“ — 47 14 

Digitized by Google 


20 ? 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



MIXING THEM UP 


The purpose of mixing is to make possible an 
intimate and uniform mixture of the ingredients into 
a smooth dough. It brings about a complete wetting 
of the flour and distributes the yeast cells all through 
the dough. 

There are two standard methods of mixing dough 
— the straight-dough method and the sponge-dough 
method. The Navy Cook Book emphasizes the 
straight-dough method. If this doesn’t work out very 
well for you, try the sponge-dough method. You’ll 
find a short explanation of it on page 320 of your 
1944 Navy Cook Book. 



Figure 164. — Dough mixing machine. 


Here’s how the straight-dough method works — 
Dissolve the yeast completely in a little lukewarm 
water. Ordinary tap water is usually all right. Handl- 
ing the yeast in this way makes it spread evenly 
through the dough. 


Digitized by Got^igle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Mix this yeast solution with the salt, sugar, milk, 
and the rest of the water. Only the yeast need be 
thoroughly dissolved at this time. 

Then add the flour and mix well in the dough 
mixing machine (figure 164). 

Add the shortening next and mix well for about 
10 minutes. Keep the temperature of the dough at 
about 80° F. Lower temperatures slow up the action 
of the yeast. Higher temperatures make the dough 
difficult to handle and provide good conditions for 
a bacterial growth known as rope. 




Figure 165. — Dough troughs. 


Rope changes the bread into a strong smelling, 
brownish, soft, sticky mass that can be pulled 
into strings or rope. (Hence the name). High 
temperatures can be controlled by using ice for 
part of the water. A few other precautions will 
help you prevent the growth of rope. Sterilize 
all the bread making equipment. After the bread 
is baked, cool it rapidly. If you still obtain ropy 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


205 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 


bread, add one quart of vinegar for each 100 
pounds of flour used. 

When the dough is well mixed, remove it from 
the mixer. Place this dough in troughs. If troughs 
are not available, let the dough ferment right in the 
mixing bowl. The fermentation period is the gas- 
forming period. Dough troughs are shown in figure 

165. 

After about two hours test the dough to see if it 
is ready for punching. Push your extended fingers 
into the dough as illustrated in figure 166 and with- 
draw them quickly. 



Figure 166 . — Testing for the punch. 


If the dough falls away it is ready for the punch. 
If it swells and fills in the gap made by the fingers, 
it must be allowed to stand a while longer. 


THE PUNCH 

When the dough is ready for punching, pound and 
press the dough with your hands until much of the 
gas which developed is removed (figure 167). 


206 

Digitized by Goi>^ 


gle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



The punch brings new food into contact with the 
yeast and makes the dough ready for the next steps. 
It also helps equalize the temperature of the dough 
and makes the dough more uniform. 



Figure 167. — ^The punch. 

Let the dough stand for about 20 minutes after 
punching — so it can loosen up. Then divide it into 
pieces just large enough for loaves. The dividing 
can be done either by machine or by hand. In hand 
dividing, each piece should be weighed. In machine 
dividing, only an occasional piece need be weighed. 
Under ordinary conditions, a pound loaf of bread 
is produced by 18 to 18H ounces of dough. Round 
up each of these pieces by hand or by machine in 
order to deal the cuts. 

INTERMEDIATE PROOF 

Allow the rounded pieces of dough to rest on the 
bench for 10 to 15 minutes. This is called inter- 
mediate PROOF. The term “proof” is simply a baker’s 
way of indicating additional fermentation for the 
dough. 

After the intermediate proof, your next step is 
to mold or form the pieces into loaves, using as little 
dusting flour as possible. Grease the pans lightly to 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


207 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



prevent the loaves from sticking. Place each loaf 
so that the molding seam faces the bottom of the 
pan. The loaves should be long enough to reach the 
ends of the pan. 


MORE PROOFING 

As all this handling compresses the dough, it is 
necessary for the loaves to rise again. This is known 



Figure 168. — Proofing cabinet. 


as PROOFING. Place the pans of dough in the proofing 
cabinet (figure 168), where a temperature of 95" 
to 98° F. and a relative humidity of 80 percent to 
85 percent should be maintained. 

At this temperature the action of the yeast will 
be good. The high humidity prevents the loaves from 
drying out and crusting over. Allow the loaves to 


08 


Digitized by 


Goiigle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 


proof until they have about doubled their original 
size. This should take from 30 to 60 minutes. 

BAKING THE BREAD 

After proofing, the loaves are ready for the oven 
(figure 169). 



Figure 169. — Bake oven. 


Oven temperatures should range between 375° F. 
and 450° F. depending on the type and size of the 
loaf. The larger or thicker the loaf the lower the 
temperature. Keep the heat even. An oven that is 
too hot for only a few minutes may cause a crust 
to form on the loaves before the inside is properly 
baked. 


209 


Digitized bfy 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Load one-half of the oven first, working from 
the rear to the front. Space the pans about of an 
inch apart so the heat can get at each part of the 
loaf equally. 

The bread bakes in from 35 to 45 minutes. When 
unloading, first remove the half that was loaded first. 
Cool the bread gradually to avoid cracking at the 
crust. However, if you are having difficulty with 
ROPE^ you should cool the bread quickly. 

IS YOUR BREAD GOOD 

Use the check list on page ooo to find out where 
your bread needs improvement. Only by finding out 
what’s wrong can you hope to improve. And you’d 
better find out for yourself rather than wait for 
somebody to tell you. 

The points to check are put down in an order that 
can be followed easily — not in the order of their 
importance. 

The first column of the list tells you the points 
to check. The second column describes how the bread 
should be. The last column indicates some of the 
things that might be wrong. 

Check your bread for every point. Make a note 
of each item that isn’t just as it should be. For 
example, if the crust is too dark, write that down. 
Maybe the crumb has an off color. Make a note of 
that. When you get through you may find several 
places where your bread can stand improvement. 


HOW TO IMPROVE YOUR BREAD 

The time spent in checking your bread is worth- 
while — BUT only if you take steps to make a better 
batch of bread the next time you bake. 

Common sense will tell you what to do for some 
of the defects. For instance, if the bread is dark 
instead of golden brown, it may have been baked 


210 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



BREAD CHECK LIST 

OUTSIDE 


POINTS TO CHECK WHAT YOU WANT POSSIBLE FAULTS 


Color of crust 
Size of loaf 
Shape of loaf 

Evenness of bake 


Break and shred 


Crust 


Golden brown 
Standard size 
Symmetrical (even 
in shape) 

Baked the same on 
all sides 


A uniform meeting 
of the top and 
sides 


Tender, even sur- 
face and thin 


Light, dark, dull. 

Large or small. 

High, one end high, 
dumbbell shaped, 
overlapping sides. 

Light side, or bot- 
tom, dark side or 
bottom, not uni- 
form. 

Wild or coarse 
break, not enough 
break or shred on 
the ends, “shell" 
crust. 

Tough, thick, hard, 
brittle. 


BREAD CHECK LIST 

INSIDE 


POINTS TO CHECK WHAT YOU WANT POSSIBLE FAULTS 


Grain 

Color of crumb 

Texture 

Aroma 

Taste 


Close, even uni- 
form 


Creamy white 


Firm, velvety soft 
and elastic 

Pleasing sweet odor 


Pleasing sweet taste 


Open, large holes, 
coarse, non-uni- 
form, thick cell 
walls. 

Chalky or dead 
white, yellow, gray, 
dull streaked, 
spotted. 

Rough, harsh, 
doughy, crumbly 
lumps. 

Sour, cheesy, 
musty, moldy, 
ropy, rancid 

Too salty, flat, too 
sweet, sour, ran- 
cid, cheesy. 


Digitized b'; 


/ Google 


211 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



too long. Perhaps you need to study the formula 
a little more to be sure you follow the directions. And 
how about the ingredients? Be certain that they are 
in the best of condition. 

You’ll also find some definite suggestions for im- 
proving your bread on page 406 of your 1944 Navy 
Cook Book, Use these. They’re good. 

BASIC SWEET DOUGH 

By all means, learn how to make and use basic 
sweet dough. From this dough you can make more 
than 40 different kinds of cakes and rolls — the kind 
the men go for. Cinnamon rolls, raisin buns, coffee 
cakes, doughnuts, twists, and Danish pastries are 
only a few of the possible uses. Some kind of topping 
is ordinarily used to make these products more attrac- 
tive. Fruits, nuts, and cream fillings can be used to 
improve the tastiness. 

The Navy Cook Book method of mixing sweet 
dough is simple and fast. The mixing can be completed 
in three minutes. After mixing the ingredients given 
in the recipe, allow about two hours for the yeast 
to get in its work. Then “p^^ch” the same as you 
do bread dough. Let the dough rest for another 20 
minutes before you cut it up into the sizes you wish. 
Let these pieces stand in the proofing cabinet until 
they have doubled their size. Bake the large pieces 
at 375° F. and the small ones at 425° F. The; smai,i,e;r 

THE PIECES, THE HOTTER THE OVEN. 

Basic sweet dough may be kept in the refrigerator 
up to 72 hours before using. This will enable you 
to mix up the dough during times when you aren’t 
very busy. Then you can bake it as needed. 

If you wish to refrigerate the dough, cut the 
fermentation time down to about one hour. 

Then either punch and divide it into 8 to 10 pound 
pieces or make it up into rolls, buns, or twists. Larger 
pieces ferment too much before the cold of the re- 


Digitized by UiOogle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



frigerator gets to the center of the pieces. Place the 
dough in a refrigerator that is kept between 32" and 
40" F. When you’re ready for baking, take the dough 
from the refrigerator and let it stand until it comes to 
room temperature. Make it up into baking sizes if you 
haven’t already done so. Then proof and bake the 
sweet dough in the normal way. 

HOW TO MAKE CAKE 

Let ’em eat cake. The men like it and it is good for 
them. A good cake is light — not heavy or soggy. Cakes 
can be divided into three kinds depending on the way 
they get their lightness. 

The ordinary layer or loaf cake is made light by 
the action of the baking powder. Pound cakes depend 
chiefly on the air that gets in during the mixing proc- 
ess. And, sponge cakes are made light through the 
beating of the eggs and sugar. 

THE ORDINARY LAYER OR LOAF CAKE 

The easy cake mixing method given in your Navy 
Cook Book was developed only after much work and 
careful study. Your part is to blend ALiy the dry in- 
gredients — including the shortening — with the eggs 
and part of the milk until you have a smooth batter. 
Add the rest of the milk as you are doing the mixing. 
That’s all there is to it. You can mix cake by this 
method in less than 7 minutes with a mixing machine. 
The first speed of a three-speed machine, or second 
speed or a four-speed machine are usually used in 
mixing the batter. Cake batters up to 25 pounds can 
be put together by hand. Naturally, it takes longer 
than when you use a machine. 

For best results, cake batters should be mixed at 
temperatures between 60" F. and 85" F. — ^75" F. is 
best. The temperature of the ingredients themselves 
should also be about 75" F. during the mixing. Cold 


Digitized 


V Google 


213 

Original 1tDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



shortening gives a lumpy batter that won't mix well 
with the other things. Cold milk or eggs make the 
batter stiff. The cakes either come out too small or 
they split. 

Too warm a batter gives cakes with poor volume 
and coarse grain. Cakes made with warm batter may 
also have tunnels and huge holes in them. If neces- 
sary, use refrigerated milk and eggs to keep the batter 
temperature down where it belongs. Or — you can use 
dried milk made up double strength and then diluted 
with cracked ice. Evaporated milk can also be diluted 
with cracked ice and used in place of regular milk. 

POUND CAKES 

In general, pound cakes are mixed in the same way 
as layer cakes. About the only difference is in the 
mixing speed — higher mixing speeds are used for 
pound cakes in order to get more air into the batter. 
Use the second speed on a three-speed machine or the 
third-speed on a four-speed mixer. 

Proper batter temperature is extremely important 
in making good pound cakes. (60° F. — 85° F.). Mix 
the batter in amounts sufficient to cover the mixing 
arm on the mixer or your cakes will be coarse. Be 
sure to scrape down the batter clinging to the sides of 
the mixing bowl — do this frequently if you want to 
produce a uniform batter. 

SPONGE CAKES 

Sponge cakes may contain little or no baking 
powder as they depend upon the beaten eggs and 
sugar for their lightness. Eggs and sugar beat up 
best when they are at a temperature of 120° F. 

This foamy mixture must then be mixed very care- 
fully with the other ingredients. This can be done in 
two ways. The other ingredients may be added, one 
by one, to the beaten eggs and sugar — or, the other 


214 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



ingredients may be mixed into a batter and the egg 
and sugar mixture carefully folded into the batter. 
Either way gives good results if done properly. 

If your cakes aren’t coming out right, take a look 
at page 402 of your 1944 Navy Cook Book. It may 
help you spot your trouble. 

CAKE ICINGS 

Good icings are to cake what sugar is to coffee. 
Your Navy Cook Book gives you recipes for four 
different kinds — fudge, cream, fondant cream, and 
marshmallow. Cream and marshmallow icings are 
light and fluffy. They ice more cake per pound of 
icing. On the other hand, fudge type icings have a 
heavier consistency that appeals to a great many men. 

Make use of these different varieties of icings to 
give character to your cakes. Cream icings are the 
easiest to make because they require no cooking. It’s 
also easier to get variety with this type. See page 366 
of the 1944 Navy Cook Book. 

Always let the cakes cool to room temperature be- 
fore you add any icing. Apply the icings at the tem- 
peratures indicated in the formulas. You’ll find that 
they will then spread on easily and smoothly. Your 
cakes will have that professional touch which adds 
much to their appeal. 

All icings except marshmallow can be stored for a 
week if kept under 60*^ F. Use the refrigerator if 
possible. Cover your icings with waxed paper to pre- 
vent crusting. Make up marshmallow icing only as 
needed — it toughens after standing for only a little 
while. Left-over marshmallow may be added to a new 
batch while the new batch is being mixed. 

PIE— THE ALL-AMERICAN DESSERT 

Pies were invented in this country many years ago. 
And they have been popular ever since — especially 
with men. 


Digitized 


V Google 


215 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



A good pie is made up of two things — a tasty filling 
and a light, tasty crust. There are three different 
kinds of good crusts. Here’s how to make ’em. 

TYPES OF PIE CRUST 

For a FLAKY type crust, mix all the shortening 
with ALL the flour. The mixture should be full of 
small lumps. Add cold water, but mix very little. 

For a MEALY crust, mix all the shortening with 
half the flour. Add the balance of the flour and mix 
it enough to break up the creamy mass. 

For a SHORT flaky type crust, mix half the short- 
ening with ALL the flour until there is a good distribu- 
tion of the shortening. Then add the rest of the 
shortening and mix it in lightly so that only small 
lumps are left in the dough. Add the cold water and 
mix lightly. 


HANDLING THE DOUGH 

If the pies are to be made up immediately after 
mixing, dump the dough on a lightly floured bench. - 
If they are to made up at a later time, take the dough 
from the mixer, cover it with waxed paper to prevent 
crusting, and place it in the refrigerator until you are 
ready to use it. Dough that has been stored in the 
refrigerator makes up best if it is brought to room 
temperature before it is rolled out. 


TWO-CRUST PIES 

About 14 ounces of dough is required for a 17-inch 
pie with two crusts. A 17-inch pie is 17 inches across 
the middle. About 8 ounces is used for the bottom 
shell and 6 ounces for the top crust. 

Roll out the bottom shell dough until it is about 
inch thick. This piece should then be slightly larger 
than the pie tin. Fold this bottom piece over once 


^16 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



(along a diameter) and lay it over one side of the 
tin (figure 170). 

Then unfold it so the whole tin is covered. See that 
there are ho air bubbles under the paste. 

Next, put in the filling. Roll out the top crust dough 
until it is about H inch thick. Then moisten the upper 
edge of the lower crust and lay the top crust dough 
over the whole thing. Trim off the edge. Seal the 



Figure 170. — ^The bottom shell. 


edges of the crust by pressing down on them with 
your fingers or with a fork that has been dipped in 
flour. Slit the upper crust here and there to permit 
the escape of steam when the pie is baking. The top 
crust will get more of a golden glow if you brush it 
lightly with milk, cream, or butter before you begin 
the baking. 


SOMETHING FANCY 

Get fancy with your pies once in a while. The men 
will appreciate it. A fancy effect can be obtained on 
pies if you use strips of dough instead of a complete 
top crust. This gives a lattice work appearance. For 

217 


Digitized tsy 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



festive occasions such as Thanksgiving or Christmas, 
figures representing turkeys or Christmas trees can 
be cut from the paste and used instead of the strips. 

OPEN PIES 

For butterscotch and other similar o^en pies, the 
bottom shell is baked before the filling is added. The 
bottom shells of some open pies, such as pumpkin, are 
baked with the filling. 

To make a fluted rim for an open pie, trim the 
pastry about one inch larger than the tin. Turn the 
edge in and under all the way around. Raise this 
double fold so that it stands up with the cut side rest- 
ing on the rim. Then, with the tip of the right index 
finger on the inner side, and the left thumb and index 
finger on the outer side, pinch the dough in and down 
all the way around the rim. 



Figure 171. — Docking the bottom shell. 


If you’re making a pie where the bottom shell is 
baked separately, dock (puncture) the pastry with a 
fork (figure 171) at a number of different points on 
the bottom of the pan. 


218 


Digitized by 


Goiigle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



PIE FILLINGS 


Two general types of fillings are used in pies — fruit 
and soft fillings. The formulas for fruit pies in the 
Navy Cook Book have been developed to give fillings 
of proper consistency and proper sweetness. Of 
course, your men may like more or less sugars in 
their pies. Adjust the amount of sugar you use ac- 
cordingly. A good fruit pie will “run’’ only slightly 
when cut. Use very little flour, cornstarch, tapioca, 
or other thickener. 

You’ll find that the Navy formulas produce soft pie 
fillings that taste swell and cut nicely. The formulas 
are well-balanced and easy to put together. Soft pies 
are usually finished off with an egg-white meringue. 
The secret of a good meringue is to use plenty of 
egg white. 

TROUBLE SHOOTING 

A man is known by the company he keeps. A baker 
is known by the pies he makes. Do your men eat the 
fillings and leave the crusts ? Maybe that’s your fault. 
Maybe the crusts are tough and unappetizing. Check 
on these things. Did you use enough shortening? Are 
you sure you didn’t add too much water? Maybe you 
didn’t blend the shortening and flour properly before 
you added the water. Or, possibly you over-mixed the 
pie pastes after you added the water. Any of these 
things could be the reason for tough crusts. 

Sometimes custard pie fillings separate and become 
“honeycombed.” This may be due to baking at too 
high a temperature. Or, perhaps you didn’t use enough 
eggs or cornstarch in the filling. 

HOW TO MAKE COOKIES 

Cookies go very well with ice cream or fruit and 
give you another way of getting variety in your des- 
serts. The simplified cookie mixing method given in 

739872* — 47 15 

Digitized by Google 


219 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



your Navy Cook Book was developed to make your 
cookie making job an easy one. 

All you need to do is dump all the ingredients into 
the mixing bowl and mix. This mixing should be 
stopped as soon as the ingredients are properly 
blended. It shouldn’t take over 2 to 3 minutes using 
medium speed on a mixing machine. Mixing too long 
makes a dough tough that won’t spread out enough 
when baking. Overmixed cookies may be small and 
often are tough and leathery. Under mixing has the 
opposite elfect. Undermixed cookies spread out too 
much during baking. They may dry out and have a 
coarse texture. 

One of the most common headaches in making 
cookies is that they stick to the pan. You can lick this 
problem by using pans that have been completely 
cleaned and dried and then properly greased. A soft 
liquid batter requires the pans to be both greased and 
floured. Shortbreads, ice box cookies, and similar rich 
dough cookies require no pan greasing at all. There 
is enough shortening in the dough to keep them from 
sticking. Most average rich cookies require that the 
pan be greased only. 

A word about ‘‘conditioning” new pans. Before 
using, new pans should be lightly greased and then 
baked in a hot oven (400° F.) for about 4 hours. This 
treatment puts a hard film over the pores in the metal. 
This film eliminates most of the sticking troubles. 

Another thing — heat from the oven will not reach 
the cookies evenly if the pans are battered, bent, or 
scratched. If damaged pans can’t be fixed, don’t use 
them. 


DOUGHNUTS 

You’ll want to be able to make doughnuts — the kind 
that don’t need to be dunked in coffee. 

Doughnuts are cooked in deep fat rather than baked 
in the oven like most other bakery products. There are 


220 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



two kinds of doughnuts — cake doughnuts and yeast 
raised doughnuts. Cake doughnuts get their lightness 
from the leavening action of the baking powder used 
in the dough. Yeast raised doughnuts are made from 
basic sweet dough. They get their lightness from the 
fermentation of the yeast. 


CAKE DOUGHNUTS 

The Navy Cook Book has a separate chapter given 
over to the making of cake doughnuts. They’re con- 
sidered that important. 

The most important part of the doughnut making 
job is to control the amount of fat that is absorbed 
by the dough during the cooking. You don’t like 
greasy doughnuts. Neither do the other men. 

Absorption of frying fat into the doughnut can be 
controlled by observing three precautions. First, be 
sure you use a balanced formula such as the ones 
given in your Navy Cook Book. Too much sugar or 
richness in the dough will make the doughnuts greasy. 
Next, control the mixing carefully. Undermixed 
doughs absorb more fat. Finally, watch the tempera- 
ture of the frying fat carefully. Too low temperature 
makes for excessive absorption. 


BASIC SWEET DOUGH DOUGHNUTS 

Yeast raised doughnuts are handled in the sweet 
yeast goods section of the Navy Cook Book. Here’s 
the way you go about making them. 

After the basic sweet dough has been mixed, roll it 
out until it is about Va inch thick. Cut the dough into 
doughnut shape. (Other shapes can be used if you 
wish). Place these pieces on floured cloths. Let them 
proof until they are about double in size. Then fry the 
pieces in hot deep fat. Keep the temperature of the 
fat at 365“ F. to 375° F. Only VA to 2/4 minutes are 
required for frying. 


Digitized 


/ Goi.)gle 


221 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Either serve the doughnuts plain or finish them off 
by dusting with a little powdered sugar that has been 
sifted with a little cinnamom. Be sure the doughnuts 
are cool before you sugar them. 

CARE OF THE FRYING FAT 

The Navy furnishes you with an all vegetable 
shortening for your frying kettles. If properly cared 
for, this fat will help you produce appetizing products 
free from any disagreeable fatty taste. 

Duty in the frialator is the hardest job any fat has 
to perform. The continued heating to frying tempera- 
ture eventually causes the fat to smoke and develop 
disagreeable tastes. Avoid this as much as possible by 
never heating the fat to more than 400° F. Keep the 
equipment clean and strain the fat after each use to 
get rid of the burnt food particles that are bojmd to 
accumulate. 

When the fat is no longer good for use in cooking, 
save it for making explosives. 


222 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




CHAPTER 13 

DISHING IT UP 

WE EAT WITH OUR EYES 

Dishing it up? That ought to be easy. Just throw 
the food on the trays and let the men carry it away. 
Wait a minute, though. Is that the way you like to 
get YOUR food? 

Many years ago a wise man said, “We eat with 
our eyes.” YouTl find the statement still true. The 
food must LOOK right as well as be right. The men 
will eat the plainest food if you make it attractive to 
the eye. They may dislike and even reject some of the 
fanciest and most expensive meals if you serve the 
food in a slovenly and unattractive manner. 

Sure, you’ve got to serve fast. But that’s no excuse 
for doing the job in a careless way. 


EATING FOR ENJOYMENT 

The men will eat almost anything if they are 
hungry enough. But the best benefits from the food 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


223 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



are received only when the men enjoy their eating. 
The sight, smell, and taste of the food should make 
their mouths water. Under such conditions, digestion 
is at its best and the most value is received from the 
food. 

If EVERYTHING is clean and neat, the chances are 
good that the food will look attractive. In this respect, 
everything means everything. Every man in the 
serving line must look clean and be clean. That re- 
quires a fresh shave every day and hands washed 
several times during the day. Clean hats and aprons 
should be worn. If jumpers are used, the sleeves 
should be rolled up to prevent them from touching any 
of the food. 

Keep empty containers off the deck and serving 
tables. Have all metal parts shining so that they look 
clean in addition to being clean. Wipe up spilled foods 
immediately. 

The tabletops where the men eat should be clean 
and inviting. Wash the salt, pepper, and catsup con- 
tainers daily — oftener if necessary. 

Arrange these containers in some uniform order 
that will appeal to the eye. One method is to place the 
taller containers in the center and arrange the others 
in order according to size. 


TRICKS OF THE TRADE 

Soft foods such as mashed potatoes or turnips 
should be neatly rounded olf — not just thrown into 
the tray. Mashed potatoes can be made to look more 
appetizing if you smooth them out carefully in the 
serving tray. Indenting them here and there with a 
tablespoon and dropping bits of butter into the inden- 
tations will also help. 

Slices of roast beef, veal, pork, and lamb should be 
of uniform thickness. Lay the slices on the serving 
trays neatly and evenly. 


224 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Cut pies and cakes neatly. Get rid of the loose 
crumbs when you put the pieces on the serving 
counter. 

A little cracked ice added to butter, olives, radishes, 
green onions, and celei y makes these foods look more 
appetizing. 


DO SOME GARNISHING 

Garnishing is one of the best ways to make food 
attractive. It adds that little something which makes 
the men enthusiastic about eating. Here are just a few 
suggestions for garnishing. You can think of many 
others. 

Place a few strips of pimiento and green pepper 
over the top of cabbage salad to give color to the 
salad. Sprinkle a little paprika over mashed potatoes 
or potato salad for the same reason. 

When serving liver and bacon, lay a few strips of 
bacon over the liver instead of keeping the liver and 
bacon separate. 

Crescent-shaped slices of lemon make an excellent 
garnish for baked fish, salmon hash, or fried oysters. 
A little parsley or a few pieces of french fried pota- 
toes are also good for these foods. 

Sprinkle a little chopped parsley over soups, stews, 
and gravies just before serving. Use a little paprika 
on macaroni and cheese. Sliced hard-boiled eggs make 
spinach more attractive. And small pieces of cheddar 
cheese are good with apple puddings and apple pies. 
Use a few slices of green pepper as a garnish for 
stewed tomatoes. 

Shredded cocoanut and canned sour cherries can 
be used to improve the appearance and taste of many 
types of puddings. Diced pineapple spread over corn- 
starch or tapioca pudding and then topped with thinly 
spread cocoanut makes the men go for these desserts. 

Use enough variation in your garnishes so they 


Digitized 


V Google 


225 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



don’t get monotonous. It would be better not to use 
any than to keep repeating the same garnish. 

Shift the order of the foods on the serving table 
every once in a while so that things look different. 

KEEP HOT DISHES HOT 

If the food is supposed to be eaten hot, see that it 
IS HOT when served. This means you will need to bring 
the food in from the galley piping hot. Bring out only 
small amounts at a time so that it doesn’t cool before 
being served. Keep the containers covered except 
during the time of actual serving. 

Heat up the trays into which the food is placed. 
Cold containers cool the food quickly. Start serving 
from the end of the pan. Don’t scoop out the middle 
and leave the ends to dry out. 

Understand thoroughly the operation of all valves 
in the steam table so that enough heat will be provided 
and no damage will be suffered. The steam pipes crack 
easily under improper treatment. 

Always fill the steam table with water to the level 
of the over-flow pipe. 


KEEP COLD DISHES COLD 

If the food is supposed to be cold, serve it coed. 
Keep cold food in the refrigerator until the last min- 
ute. Then make arrangements for keeping the food 
cold until it is eaten. Cracked ice will do the trick. 

Keep the cold foods as far away from the hot foods 
as possible or everything will be lukewarm. Men don’t 
get enthusiastic over lukewarm soup or melted ice 
cream. 

Fresh fruits — apples, oranges, or grapes — taste 
best when they are chilled. Cut the larger bunches of 
grapes into smaller bunches. 


226 


Digitized by 

L. 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



THE RIGHT PORTIONS 


It takes a little practice to learn just how large the 
servings should be. The men must be satisfied. Yet, 
giving them too much food just makes for waste. 
Worse yet, you might run out before you get all the 
men served. 

The Navy Cook Book gives you the approximate 
weights for portions of different foods. Before the 
men take their places in the serving line, weigh out • 
several servings of the foods they are going to handle. 
This will give you an idea of the correct portion size. 
Sometimes the men will ask for smaller portions — 
always comply with such requests. 


227 


Digitized b'; 


/ Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Digitized bfy 


Go(.»gle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




CHAPTER 14 


SOMETHING ABOUT POISONS 

WHY BOTHER - 

Why know anything about food poisoning? Only 
so you can avoid serving food that may put your men 
out of action. Fortunately, food poisoning is extremely 
rare in the Navy. But when it does occur, it can be 
very serious. On 12 May 1936 — 255 men aboard a 
cruiser were rendered temporarily unfit for duty be- 
cause they had eaten a cream puff mixture which 
wasn’t fit to eat. In time of war that could be almost 
as disastrous as a torpedo hit. 

The usual symptoms of food poisoning are vomit- 
ing, diarrhea, and cramps. Any of these are enough 
to put a sailor out of action for several hours. Occa- 
sionally, there are more serious complications. The 
symptoms usually occur within a few hours after the 
infected food has been eaten. 

Your job is made more difficult by the fact that the 
food can taste, smell, and look good, and still contain 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


229 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 


enough poison to put men out of action. There are 
three main sources of food poisons — bacteria, 
CHEMiCAES, and poisonous plants or animals. 

BACTERIA FOOD POISONING 

Most food poisoning cases are a result of the action 
of certain types of bacteria — commonly known as 
germs. Bacteria are small living organisms — so small 
you can’t see them except through a microscope. 

You can’t get away from bacteria. They are found 
everywhere — and most of them are helpful in your 
daily life. Only a few types are harmful. Figure 172 



Figure 1 72. — Staphylococcus bacteria. 


shows you how one type of harmful bacteria (staphy- 
lococcus) looks when it is greatly magnified under the 
microscope. This type appears in boils, in pus from 
cuts on hands, and in spray from sneezing and cough- 
ing. When such bacteria are provided with good living 
conditions — food they like, at a temperature they 
like — for a sufficient length of time, they multiply or 
reproduce rapidly and make the food unfit to eat. 

Ham, chicken, turkey, custard filled products, beef 
hash, and tongue are particularly good developing 
places for harmful bacteria. The best growing tem- 
peratures are between 65° F. and 115° F. In three- 
fourths of all food poisoning cases, the food was all 
right when it was first prepared. The spoiling oc- 


230 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



curred between the time it was prepared and the time 
it was eaten. There have been cases where food that 
was left standing for just a few hours at room tem- 
perature contained enough harmful bacteria to cause 
illness. 


WHAT’S TO BE DONE ABOUT IT 

What can be done to prevent bacterial food poison- 
ing? Plenty. 

Men with boils or infected cuts are unsafe food 
handlers. They should be kept away from the food. 
Sneezing and coughing must be controlled around 
places where food is being prepared. Men who have 
colds or are otherwise ill don’t belong in the galley 
or bakeshop. 

If food is always served immediately after it has 
reached the right degree of “doneness, ” bacteria won’t 
have a chance to develop and cause trouble. Observe 
THE 4-hour rueE. Under all circumstances, serve 
food within 4 hours from the end of the cooking 
period. 

If food is not to be served right away, it should be 
either thoroughly chilled to a temperature of 50° F. 
or below or held at a temperature of 130° F. or above. 
These temperatures are outside the best growing 
range for bacteria. Ordinarily, you’ll use the chill 
method because holding foods at high temperatures 
spoils the flavor and destroys many of the food values. 

When you wish to chill foods, be sure aee the food 
is really chilled. Place the food in shallow pans (not 
more than 3 inches deep). Food in deep pans tends to 
retain its heat for long periods. 

Bread puddings, custards, eclairs, and foods with 
cream fillings should be covered, cooled quickly, and 
placed in the refrigerator or some other cool place 
until ready to serve. If you can’t handle them in this 
manner, don’t serve them. 


Digitized 


V Google 


231 

Original 1tDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Food to be ground for hash or other dishes should 
be ground just beore^ cooking. The ground food gives 
the bacteria more food surface on which they can de- 
velop. The grinding process also warms the food up 
to the point where bacteria may reproduce rapidly. 

Reconstituted dehydrated products spoil just as 
fast as fresh foods. Therefore, reconstitute dehy- 
drated foods just before you are ready to serve them. 

The same is true of frozen foods once they have 
been thawed. Thawed foods spoil just as fast as the 
fresh product. 

Poisoning from commercially canned foods hardly 
ever happens anymore. But it’s wise to be careful. 
When it does occur, this type of food poisoning is 
deadly. If cans are swollen, get that food surveyed. 
Do the same with off-color canned foods. Never taste 
canned foods that don’t look right. If the food in the 
can is poisonous, one taste may cause death. 


CHEMICAL POISONING 

People have been chemically poisoned by eating 
food that had been cooked in the wrong kind of pots 
and pans. Cheap, gray enameled cooking pots have 
caused antimony poisoning. 

Acid drinks or acid foods — such as lemonade or 
raspberry-gelatin dessert — prepared in a cadmium 
plated utensil have caused cadmium poisoning. 

Apples cooked in a galvanized iron kettle have 
given ZINC poisoning. 

Your answer to all this is simple. Use only the 
cooking utensils furnished officially by the Navy. If it 
is ever necessary to use others, see that they are not 
of the types mentioned above. 

Beware of lead and arsenic poisoning. Keep any 
arsenic preparation that might be used for destroying 
insects or rats in a place where it can’t possibly be 
mistaken for anything else. Handle poisonous fly 
sprays with special care. Fruits such as apples, pears, 


232 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



and peaches that are eaten without removing the out- 
side covering should be washed before they are given 
to the men. Such washing will elimniate all possibility 
of poisoning from poisonous sprays that may have 
been used by the fruit grower. Cleaning compounds 
are sometimes poisonous. Handle them with care. 

Fluoride: poisoning is caused by sodium fluoride. 
This substance is often used to get rid of water bugs 
or cockroaches. It is a white powder that can easily 
be mistaken for baking powder. Keep the containers 
out of the galley and bakeshop. 

Methyl chloride poisoning is caused by leaking 
mechanical refrigerators. Check your equipment daily 
for any. such leaks. 

There is no danger from tin or aluminum poison- 
ing. People have actually eaten broken bits of these 
metals with no ill effects. It is perfectly all right to 
keep food in a tin can after the can has been opened. 
In fact, the can is more sterile than a dish that has 
been washed in the usual manner. 

POISONOUS PLANTS AND ANIMALS 

Every effort is made to keep poisonous plants and 
animals off the ship. But sometimes they get aboard 
anyway. You ought to know about the danger spots. 

There have been a few serious outbreaks of poison- 
ing from eating mussels and shelleish. No one 
knows exactly how these animals become poisonous 
and it is very difficult to tell when they are poisonous. 
Be sure the medical officer checks any such seafoods 
you may wish to serve. 

Mushrooms are tricky. There are over 70 different 
kinds that are poisonous. Only an expert can be sure 
whether or not a certain mushroom is fit to eat. Let 
THE Expert decide for you. 

Rhubarb stalks make an excellent food. But don’t 
use RHUBARB LEAVES. These leaves contain a substance 
that is poisonous to some people. 


Digitized 


V Google 


233 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



There are many other poisonous plants and animals 
spread throughout the world. The safest rule is not to 
use strange plants and animals for food unless they 
are used and recommended by the natives of that 
region. 


SOME OTHER DANGERS 

Dysentery may be spread either by impure water 
or contaminated food. The men are more likely to get 
this disease if they aren’t getting enough vitamins. 
Your main safeguard against dysentery is absolute 
cleanliness. 

Trichinosis is caused by a very small worm known 
as the trichina. The trichina sometimes comes aboard 
in pork. Inspectors can’t be blamed for passing pork 
containing this worm as it is too small to be seen. But 
YOU have no excuse for allowing anybody to get 
trichinosis. If you cook the pork thoroughly the 
worm dies and causes no trouble. Rare pork is danger- 
ous — never serve it. 


KEEP IT CLEAN 

The worst enemies of the cook are dirt and filth. 
All food handlers must wash their hands and clean 
their fingernails frequently. Their clothing must be 
clean. The equipment and utensils used by food han- 
dlers should be kept spotless. Boiling water is the best 
cleaning agent for equipment and utensils. 

Rats, mice, and — most important of all — the com- 
mon fly, like to live in filth. Do everything possible to 
keep them under control. There are effective traps for 
catching rats and mice. And dot spray will take care 
of the fly population. If you don’t have dot, other 
sprays and the good old fly swatter may be effective. 
Get rid of garbage and wastes — flies like them both. 
Protect the food from flies by keeping it covered. 


234 

Digitized; by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Catsup and other condiments left on the table from 
one meal to another are sometimes sources of poison- 
ing trouble. Empty the bottles after each meal and 
place the contents in the refrigerator. Wash the con- 
tainers thoroughly before using them again. 


Digitized by 



Original 


235 

om 


UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Digitized bfy 


Go(.»gle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 




CHAPTER 15 


LANDING FORCE COOKING 

YOU GO ASHORE 


Breakfast is eaten on the attack transports at day- 
light. The mess cooks bring up on deck big cartons of 
K rations and pass them out to the officers and men. 
There is good Navy coffee on deck too — plenty of it. 
The strange, salty-sweet concentrated vitamin wafers 
in the K rations need dunking in strong coffee. 

You can hear gunfire behind the gray beach line, 
and nearer, the staccato fire of antiaircraft guns blaz- 
ing at a low-flying enemy plane that is trying to bomb 
one of our supply dumps. 

The first phase of an amphibious operation is over. 
A “beachhead’’ has been established. That is, assault 
troops have landed, have destroyed enemy shore de- 
fenses, and the beach area is in our control. 

The Army and the Marines are not the only ones 
who have gone ashore. The Navy Beach Battalion is 
hard at work repairing damaged landing boats, keep- 
ing the boat traffic under control, and preparing the 
beach for more landings. The Seabees are chopping 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


237 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



down trees, building roads and airfields. What about 
you — the Navy cook? Those K rations are all right 
for a while but they’re no substitute for the tasty 
meals the men have been accustomed to aboard ship. 
The excitement of the landing operations will keep 
them from thinking about food for awhile but when 
the tension is eased they are going to be hungrier then 
you have ever seen them. And it may be necessary for 
you to cook ashore for days and even weeks. It is 
more important than ever that the food you serve be 
well-balanced. 


COMBAT DUTIES 

Just a minute- Before you get around to doing 
any cooking, you may be given certain combat duties. 
Wounded men can’t be left uncared for. You may be 
needed to give first aid. Better be up on what the Blue 
Jackets' Manual tells you about such duties. 



Figure 173. — Mud range. 


You may be ordered to reinforce the stretchermen 
in bringing wounded men to the dressing station or 
hospital. When doing this, lay aside any arms you may 
be carrying and wear the Red Cross arm badge. 


238 


Digitized by 


Goiigle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA - 




You may also be ordered to recover the arms and 
ammunition of the dead and wounded. 

Now get back to cooking. That’s your specialty and 
also the job of this book. 

WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO COOK WITH 

Special ranges are usually available — ranges which 
are designed for cooking in the field and which use 
either wood or gasoline for fuel. You’ll have no 
trouble with these ranges. But sometimes you may 
have no more equipment than the early American 
Indians, who used to roam the Western plains. That’s 
when you’ll have a real challenge to meet. 

‘ THE MUD RANGE 

The mud range shown in figure 173 can be built in 
a short time. Cover a level piece of ground about 4 
feet wide and 7 feet long with a layer of wet clay 3 
inches thick. Pack this down and smooth it out. Knock 
the heads out of two salt or sugar barrels and lay the 
barrels end to end on this space. Place one of the open 
ends where you want the front of the range to be. 
Then pack sand — just damp enough to mold — under 
the sides and over the tops of the barrels. This forms 
the frame for the inside of the oven part of the range. 

Mix some straw into a thick mud made of clay. The 
straw acts as a binder and holds the clay together. 
Pack this mixture on the barrels beginning at the 
bottom and working up the sides and the back. Make 
the bottom portion of the side walls about 10 inches 
thick and the top portion about 8 inches thick. 

Before you pack mud on the top, place a block or 
brick on end on top of each barrel at its center and 
one at the highest point where the barrels join. Pack 
some mud around these bricks to hold them in place 
while you finish covering the top. Flatten the clay on 
top but do NOT cover the tops of the bricks. 


Digitized 


V Google 


239 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Let the range stand for 24 hours. Then start a fire 
in the barrels. Keep this fire burning slowly until the 
barrels are burned out and the oven part is well dried. 
Remove the bricks or blocks from the top — to create 
vents or air holes — and the range is ready for use. 

Articles to be cooked on top of the range are placed 
over the vents so that the heat from within will reach 
them. 

When the articles cooked on top of the range are 
done, you can remove the fire and use the inside as an 
oven for baking bread or roasting meats. 

THE MUD OVEN 

If all you need is an oven, follow the directions for 
making the range but don’t bother flattening the top 
or making vents. See figure 174. 



Figure 174. — Mud oven. 


Break a hole in the top near the back in order to 
get a good draft. This will also help you regulate the 
heat of the oven. You build a fire in the oven and rake 
out the coals when you are ready to bake. Navy cooks 
used this type of oven during the terrific fighting on 
Bataan in 1941-42. It was the only baking equipment 
they had. 

A hole dug in the side of a steep bank (figure 175) 
can also be used as an oven. Keep the entrance as 


240 


Digitized by 


Goiigle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



small as possible and tap a hole in the back for a flue. 
Burn a slow fire in this oven to dry out the soil before 
you start your fire to be used for baking. ' 

Open trench ovens are sometimes used successfully 
for baking bread. Dig a trench 6 feet long, 1 5 inches 
wide and 1 foot deep. Cover the bottom of the trench 
with stones or bricks. Build a fire in the trench. Let 



Figure 175. — Steep bank oven. 


it burn for two hours. Then remove the coals and 
sweep the trench clean. Lay the loaves in the trench 
about 3 inches apart and cover them with a metal 
sheet (not in contact with the bread). Put the hot 
coals you removed on top of the metal sheet. Leave 
the loaves in the trench until they are baked. 

COOKING OVER AN OUTSIDE FIRE 

If a better way is not available, hang a kettle of food 
over an open fire as shown in figure 176. A green pole 
lying in the crotches of two upright posts forms a 
good support. 


241 


Digitized bfy Ljoooie 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



If you have more time, dig a trench about a foot 
deep and narrow enough so you can place the camp 
kettles right over the trench without having them fall 
into it. Dig the trench in the direction of the wind in 
order to provde a good draft. Fill up the space between 
the kettles with stones, clay, or whatever is available 
so that a flue running beneath the kettles is provided. 

If you will need to cook in this manner for several 
days at the same camp, dig four trenches coming to- 



Figure 176. — Cooking over open fire. 


gether at a common point in order to take advantage 
of shifts in the wind. This is shown in figure 177; 
Build a mud or brick chimney where the trenches 
come together in order to get a better draft. Then use 
only the trench that is pointing into the wind. 

WHAT TO COOK 

Most of the regular meals you cook aboard ship 
can also be cooked in the field. But stay away from 
the more elaborate dishes. 

If possible, bake a good supply of field bread 
before you come ashore. This bread will last for 
three weeks or more if the hard crust isn’t broken. 
You can also bake this bread in a field oven. Your 
Navy Cook Book gives you the recipe. It is well to 


242 


Digitized by 


Goiigle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



remember that the men will have a craving for 
sweets. So furnish as much jam, jelly, and other 
sugar products as you can. 

It may be possible to get fresh eggs, milk, meat, 
fruit, and vegetables after you get ashore. Be sure 
these provisions are inspected and approved by 
the medical department before you use them. 
Whenever there is a chance of cgntamination, steri- 
lize the fruits and vegetables that are to be eaten 
raw by dipping them in boiling water. 



Higure 177. — Four trench cooking system. 


Fried eggs and bacon or hot cakes can be pre- 
pared easily on a mud range. Soups and stews can 
be made under almost any conditions. Baked pota- 
toes are also easy to prepare. All you need do is 
place the potatoes in the hot ashes of a fire that has 
been allowed to die down. Beans can be cooked by 
soaking and boiling them as usual and then plac- 
ing the pot in a hole in the ground that has been 
heated by fire. Cover the hole and leave the beans 
overnight. They will be ready for use the next day. 

Good soups can be made without the usual soup 
stock. Use a roux as a base. This roux is prepared 


Digitized bfy 


Google 


243 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



by mixing 2 pounds of flour and 1 pound of butter 
OR 3 pounds of flour and 2 pounds of shortening. 
Melt the butter or shortening over the fire. Sift 
in the flour and stir until the mixture is cooked and 
smooth. Mix in •water, tomato juice, or vegetable 
juices until the soup is of the thickness you wish. 
Add other vegetables and ingredients as you see fit. 

• 

THE WATER SUPPLY 

A good supply of pure water is sometimes harder 
to get than good food and water is even more im- 
portant. If lake water is used, it should be obtained 
some distance from the shore. 

The available supply of water from a small 
stream can be increased by building a dam. Always 
take cooking and drinking water above any places 
in the stream that might be used for watering 
animals, bathing, or washing clothes. 

Dig out any fresh water spring you might wish 
to use and line it with stones, bricks, or an empty 
barrel. Keep the surface drainage out by building 
a curb around the spring. Clay or mud will do the 
trick. 

But donT allow anybody to drink any water that 
has not been approved by the medical department. 
Consider add water contaminated untie proved 
OTHERWISE. 


PURIFYING THE WATER 

The EYSTER BAG was designed to make water safe 
for drinking. This bag consists of a canvas sack 
28 inches long and 20 inches thick. It weighs about 
7/^ pounds and may be folded easily. Its capacity 
of 36 gallons is sufficient to fill the canteens of 
100 men. 

Pour clear water only into the Lyster bag. If the 
water is muddy, let it stand for awhile until the 


244 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



sediment settles to the bottom or filter it through 
a blanket be;fore pouring it into the bag. 

Calcium hypochlorite, the chemical used for puri- 
fying the water, is supplied in small glass tubes. 
Pour the contents of one of these small tubes into 
a canteen cup containing just enough water to 
form a paste. Fill the cup with water and stir until 
the chemical is thoroughly mixed. Pour the solu- 
tion from the cup into a Lyster bag full of water. 
Wait for 30 minutes before using. 

The ortho-toluidine method is used to tell 
whether you have mixed in enough of the chemical 
to make the water safe for drinking. Take about 
^ of a canteen cup of water from the Lyster bag 
and add to it eight drops of the ortho-toluidine solu- 
tion. The color of the water SHouiyD become orange 
or orange-red. A lemon-yellow color indicates that 
you need to mix in more of the calcium hypo- 
chlorite. 

Tincture of iodine can be used as a substitute for 
the calcium hypochlorite. Add teaspoons of 
tincture of iodine to the Lyster bag and wait the 
customary 30 minutes before using the water. One 
canteen requires two drops of the tincture. 

Heat is one of the safest ways to sterilize water, 
but heat takes time and fuel. The water must be 
boiled FOR at i^east 20 minutes and then it has to cool. 

Once you get the water pure, don’t let it become 
contaminated again before it is used. Keep water 
containers well covered. Clean these containers 
every day with boiling water or rinse them out 
with a solution of potassium permanganate. Use 
one-third of a teaspoonful of permanganate to a 
gallon of water. Canteens should be emptied, dried, 
and cleaned whenever possible. Avoid the use of a 
common drinking cup. 


Digitized 


V Google 


245 

Original 1tDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE 


Place cans, boxes, or other receptacles near the 
kitchen for waste and garbage — these include 
waste, paper, burned matches, fruit peelings, and 
cigarette stubs. 

Secure the receptacles on a raised platform and 
keep them well covered. Keep the outside of the 
containers clean. Scrape or rake the surface be- 
neath the receptacles and shovel the dirt in with 
the rest of the garbage. Replace the surface with 
fresh dry earth. This is done to prevent pollution 
and fly breeding. 

The garbage then should either be burned or 
buried — preferably burned. Steel baskets are often 
available for burning trash and garbage. 


KITCHEN PITS 


Dig a pit somewhere near the galley for the liq- 
uid refuse. This pit must be covered to keep flies 
and other insects out. Use boards, brushwood or 
whatever is available. Pour kerosene or oil into the 
pit every day to guarantee that no insects will sur- 
vive. 


WOODEN TOP WITH HINGED COVER SAND OR EARTH 



GRAVEL, STONES 
FOR ANTI- SPLASH 


EMPTY KEROSENE CAN 
WITH A.B. CUT, BENT AND 
SOLDERED TO B.E. 

LARGE STONES OR 
PERFORATED TIN CANS 


GROUND LEVEL 


Figure 178. — Kitchen pit. 


246 


Digitized by 


Goiigle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



It may be wise to build a more complicated pit 
like the one diagrammed in figure 178. This is ex- 
cellent for dish water, bath water, and other waste 
water. Notice how the kerosene can, placed on its 
side, serves as a trap for soaps and greases that 
would otherwise clog the pit in a short time. 

INSECT CONTROL 

Flies breed in manure and decayed matter — so 
keep flies out of the galley. Screen the galleys if 
possible. Keep the food in covered or screened con- 
tainers where flies can’t get at it. Mosquito netting 
is a good material to use. 

Use traps and fly swatters freely. Sticky fly 
paper can be made by heating castor oil (5 parts 
by weight) and powdered resin (8 parts) until the 
resin is dissolved. Don’t boil this solution. Apply it 
when still hot to glazed paper or paint it on iron 
hoops or wire strands. Wires so painted should be 
cleaned and recoated every two or three days. 

DDT — made especially for the armed forces — 
is the most effective means of fighting flies and 
other insects. Spray it around as much and as often 
as necessary. 


WASHING MESS GEAR 

After each chow% all mess gear should be steri- 
lized in boiling water. When mess kits are being 
used, have the men dispose of the garbage in the 
receptacles provided. Then have the men file past 
three cans of boiling hot water, dipping their mess 
utensils into each of these cans successively. The 
first can should contain boiling, soapy water, the 
second and third, boiling, clear water. You can 
keep the water boiling by placing the cans over a 
fire built in a trench. No wiping is necessary as the 
mess gear dries almost immediately from its own 
heat. 


Digitized 


V Google 


247 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Digitized bfy 


Go(.»gle 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



How Well Do You Know The Duties Of 

SHIP'S COOK 3c AND 2c 


Digitized by 


Google 


249 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



QUIZ 


CHAPTER I 

FOOD FOR THOUGHT 

1. Should a Ship’s Cook 3c know anything about the or- 

ganization of the general mess? 

2. What kind of a cooking test may you be asked to take 

in order to qualify for the rating of Ship’s Cook 3c? 

3. Why must a Ship’s Cook be familiar with the regulations 

for taking provisions from storerooms? 

4. How far in advance should a Ship’s Cook plan his menus ? 

5. What is the source of standard Navy recipes? 

6. In order to cut meat properly, what must a Ship’s Cook 

know about the various cuts? 

7. What three essential things should a Ship’s Cook know 

how to do with respect to the operation of the galley 
range ? 

8. What does a Ship’s Cook 2c need to know about the tem- 

peratures required for the storage of provisions? 

9. What are the immediate duties of a Ship’s Cook 2c when 

provisions are delivered aboard? 


CHAPTER 2 

THE GENERAL MESS 

1. Who is responsible for the preparation of the weekly bill- 

of-fare? 

2. Who must finally approve the weekly bill-of-fare? 

3. If there is no regular supply officer aboard, what is done 

to provide for the performance of the supply officer’s 
duties ? 

4. Give two responsibilities of the medical department in con- 

nection with provisions and storerooms for the general 
mess. 

5. What are the two most important duties of the jack of 

the dust? 

6. What should you do with “blown” cans? 


250 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



7. When you are finished with the keys to the storerooms, 

what should be done with them? 

8. How does the supply officer know the number of men to 

be fed each day? 

9. Aboard ship, who is responsible for keeping the mess gear 

in good shape? 

CHAPTER 3 

INSPECTING PROVISIONS 

1. What is the purpose of the number on the Department of 

Agriculture meat inspection stamp? 

2. Into what three cooking groups is frozen beef divided ? 

3. What are the three bases for grading meats? 

4. What is the color of good veal? 

5. What are the most common cuts of fresh pork? 

6. What grade and size of potatoes are most suitable for use 

aboard ships? 

7. What is the minimum acceptable length for carrots? 

8. How can you detect decay on egg plant? 

9. What is the limiting size for acceptable strawberries ? 

10. Only live oysters should be used for food. How can you 

tell if oysters are dead? 

CHAPTER 4 

STORING PROVISIONS 

1. If your storeroom contains flour that was procured at 

different times, which flour should be used first? 

2. What poison is used to eliminate roaches and water bugs? 

3. Why should a liquid container with a cork stopper be 

stowed on its side? 

4. Why should coffee be kept away from freshly painted 

places ? 

5. In what temperature range should the butter and egg box 

be kept? 

6. Why should granulated sugar be stowed where the tem- 

perature is less than 80* F. ? 


739872° — 47 17 


Digitized 


. Google 


251 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



7. At about what temperature should the chill room be kept? 

8. Why should cucumber pickles be stowed away from the 

light ? 

9. Why is it bad to stow bananas in the refrigerator? 

10. Why should the vegetables in a locker be sorted often? 

11. Should large pieces of frozen meat be thawed quickly at 

high temperatures or slowly at lower temperatures? 

12. What’s the chief advantage of dehydrated products? 

CHAPTER 5 

ISSUE AND DISPOSAL OF PROVISIONS 

. 1. ‘What form is used to order provisions from the bulk 
storeroom ? 

2. Six pounds of sugar is needed to make enough chocolate 

for 100 portions. How much is needed for 75 portions? 

3. Forty pounds of halibut steaks are needed for 100 portions. 

How many pounds are needed for 225 portions? 

4. Forty-two pounds of boneless beef are needed for 100 

portions of roast beef. How many pounds are needed 
for 825 portions? 

5. One hundred twenty-five pounds of dressed frying chickens 

are needed to prepare 100 portions of fried chicken. 
How many pounds are needed for 2,150 portions? 

6. If wheat flour costs $.029 per pound, what is the total cost 

of 1,450 pounds? 

7. If the total cost of provisions used in a day is $216.90, 

what is the ration cost if 326 men are being subsisted? 

8. What form is used to keep track of quantities of provisions 

in the bulk storeroom? 

9. Frozen beef for stewing or boiling should be sold to 

special messes at 90 percent of the average cost of all 
frozen beef. If the average cost of frozen beef is $.23 
per pound, how much should be chaged for the stewing 
and boiling beef? 

10. What should be done when spoiled provisions kre dis- 
covered ? 


252 

Digitized; by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



CHAPTER 6 


food— WHAT IT IS 

1. Which have the most calories per pound — carbohydrates, 

fats, or proteins? 

2. Which is best for building up your muscles— carbohydrates, 

fats or proteins? 

3. Which of the following foods is best for furnishing carbo- 

hydrates — fish, meat, or potatoes? 

4. Which of the following foods is best for furnishing pro- 

teins — cereals, meat or potatoes ? 

5. What two parts of your body have the most need for cal- 

cium and phosphorus? 

6. Which of the following foods is best for furnishing cal- 

cium — meat, milk, or oranges? 

7. What part of your body has the most need for iron? 

8. Which of the following foods is the best iron provider — 

eggs, oranges, or potatoes ? 

9. What disease does vitamin C prevent? 


CHAPTER 7 

MENU PLANNING 

1. If you’re serving a heavy meal, should the soup be light 

or heavy? 

2. Butter is particularly good for supplying one of the vita- 

mins. Which vitamin is this ? 

3. Meat supplies large amounts of two vitamins. Which two 

vitamins are these? 

4. Where can you find the amount of the ration limit placed 

on your ship? 

5. How many meals are included in one Navy Ration? 

6. If you’re following the Navy Ration and plan to serve 

fresh meat, how much meat should you plan to prepare 
for each man for one day? 

7. What season of the year is best for serving hot soups, 

roasts, and heavy puddings? 


Digitized 


V Google 


253 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



8. Tomatoes supply a large amount of one of the vitamins. 

Which vitamin is this? 

9. How much sugar is indicated in the Navy Ration? 

CHAPTER 8 

GALLEY AND BUTCHER SHOP EQUIPMENT 

1. Why should the bowl on an electric mixer never be filled 

more than half-full? 

2. Why should potatoes remain in the potato peeler only a 

very short time? 

3. What should you use to force the meat into the hopper of 

the electric meat grinding machine? 

4. What valve should be opened just before the steam valve 

is opened on the steamer? 

' 5. What device enables you to control the heat of an electric 

oven? 

6. What electric switch should be pulled when the electric 

range is not in operation? 

7. How tight should the saw blade on an electric saw be 

adjusted when the saw is being used? 

8. What two things should you use to clean the meat block? 

9. Why should you remove the ice that accumulates on the 

coils of the refrigerator? 

CHAPTER 9 

CUTTING MEAT THE NAVY WAY 

1. When you’re cutting up a beef hindquarter, which part is 

removed first? 

2. For what should the boneless hanging tender of beef be 

used? 

3. For what should the beef tenderloin be used? 

4. What use can you make of beef bones? 

5. When the beef forequarter is hung up properly, is the arm 

and shank toward the bottom or toward the top ? 

6. Why should you stick a boning knife between the 5th and 

6th ribs when you cut the beef forequarter ? 

254 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



7. For what should the beef chuck tender be used ? 

8. Which carcass is best for cutting into chops — beef, lamb, 

or veal ? 


CHAPTER 10 * 

WHAT'S COOKING 

1. What do you have to do to the soup stock in order to get 

a clear soup? 

2. What do you have to add to soup stock in order to get a 

cream soup? 

3. Why should only thick slices of meat be broiled ? 

4. How much fat is used when you griddle broil meat? 

5. What kind of meat should never be used in stews? 

6. Why should the meat in a stew be cooked for a while 

before the vegetables are added? 

7. What must be done to dehydrated vegetables before they 

are cooked ? 

8. Should cold or hot water be used for refreshing vege- 

tables ? 

9. How can you tell when vegetables have been cooked long 

enough ? 

10. Why should tea that is to be iced be made a little stronger 
than the tea that is to be served hot? 

CHAPTER II 

THE ARITHMETIC OF RECIPES 

1. What do you multiply by in order to change the unit of 

measure from cups to tablespoons? 

2. What do you multiply by in order to change pounds to 

ounces ? 

3. Each of the Navy Cook Book recipes is made out for how 

many portions? 

4. What fractional part of the Navy Cook Book recipe would 

you use for 75 portions? 

5. What fractional part of the Navy Cook Book recipe would 

you use for 10 men ? 


Digitized 


V Google 


255 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



6. How many dozen eggs in a case? 

7. The Navy Cook Book recipe for chicken croquettes calls 

for 25 eggs. How many eggs would you use for 733 
portions ? 

8. The Navy Cook Book recipe for oven broiled mackerel 

calls for ^ of a tablespoon of pepper. How much pep- 
per would you use for 1,875 portions? 

CHAPTER 12 

BAKING 

1. Which ingredient makes bread dough light and porous? 

2. Which ingredient helps to control fermentation of bread 

dough ? 

3. What’s the purpose of pushing your fingers into the bread 

dough and then quickly withdrawing them? 

4. Which part of the dough loaves should face the bottom of 

the pan ? 

5. At what temperature should bread be baked? 

6. What color is the crust of good Navy bread ? 

7. What process makes sponge cakes light? 

8. What type of icing cannot be stored for any length of time ? 

9. Why is it necessary to slit the upper crust of a two crust 

pie? 

10. What ingredient is most important in making good 

meringue ? 

11. What should be done with new pans before using them to 

bake cookies ? 

12. How does too much sugar or richness affect cake dough- 

nuts? 

CHAPTER 13 

DISHING IT UP 

1 . What condiment can be added to mashed potatoes or potato 

salad in order to give the food a little color? 

2. Should liver and bacon be served separately or together? 

256 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



3. Why is it well to keep the food trays in a warm place 

before food is placed in them ? 

4. What’s the main purpose of garnishing food? 

CHAPTER 14 

SOMETHING ABOUT POISONS 

1. Food poisoning is caused by bacteria, chemicals, and 

poisonous plants or animals. Which of these is the chief 
source of food poisoning? 

2. Does food usually become spoiled before or after it is 

cooked ? 

3. What is the 4 hour rule? 

4. Do dehydrated foods spoil most easily before or after they 

have been reconstituted ? 

5. Why should you never taste canned foods that don’t look 

right? 

6. What causes cadmium poisoning ? 

7. How much danger from poisoning is there in using tin or 

aluminum food containers ? 

8. If you’re jn a strange country, how can you be fairly sure 

that strange plants and animals are safe to eat? 

9. When preparing a pork dinner, how can you prevent 

trichinosis ? 

10. What are the upper and lower limits of the best growing 
temperatures for bacteria? 

CHAPTER 15 

LANDING FORCE COOKING 

1. What standard publication gives you information about 

first aid? 

2. Why should straw be mixed in with the mud when you’re 

building a mud oven? 

3. Why should a fire be burned in a hole in a bank oven 

before the oven is used ? 


257 


by Google 


Original frDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



4 . What kind of bread can most easily be baked in outside 

ovens ? 

5. Who should inspect fresh provisions that may be available 

ashore ? 

6. What can be used instead of soup stock for making good 

soups ? 

7. For what is the Lyster bag used? 

8. Why isn’t heat a practical way to purify water ? 

9. How should garbage be disposed of in the field? 


258 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



ANSWERS TO QUIZ 


CHAPTER I 

FOOD FOR THOUGHT 

1. Yes ! A Ship’s Cook 3c should know the complete organi- 

zation of the general mess of his ship or station, 

2. In order to qualify for the rating of Ship’s Cook 3c, an 

examining board may ask you to prepare four dishes 
including meat, a vegetable, and dessert. 

3. A Ship’s Cook must know the regulations for taking pro- 

visions from the storerooms, because he must obtain the 
provisions for the galley from the storerooms. 

4. A Ship’s Cook should be able to plan menus for a week in 

advance. 

5. Standard Navy recipes can be found in the Ncevy Cook 

Book. 

6. A Ship’s Cook should be able to tell the names, locations, 

and proper uses of various cuts of meat. 

7. A Ship’s Cook should be able to start, secure, and clean 

the galley rafige. 

8. A Ship’s Cook 2c should know the desirable temperatures 

in the storage rooms for the preservation of different 
types of provisions. 

9. A Ship’s Cook 2c must supervise the delivery, inspection, 

and storage of provisions. 


CHAPTER 2 

THE GENERAL MESS 

1. The chief commissary steward is responsible for the prepa- 

ration of the weekly bill-of-fare. 

2. The commanding officer gives final approval to the weekly 

bill-of-fare. 

3. When there is no regular supply officer aboard, the com- 

manding officer appoints a line officer to perform the 
duties of supply officers. 


Digitized 


V Google 


259 

Original frDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



4. Some one from the medical department makes quality 

inspections of provisions delivered to the ship’s galley 
and storeroom inspections are also made. 

5. The jack of the dust orders provisions for the issue room. 

He also issues these provisions as needed. 

6. Blown cans should be put aside until they can be surveyed. 

7. The keys to the storerooms should always be returned to 

the supply office. 

8. The executive officer notifies the supply officer every day 

as to the number of men to be fed that day. 

9. The first lieutenant is responsible for keeping the mess gear 

in good shape. 

CHAPTER 3 

INSPECTING PROVISIONS 

1. The number on the meat inspection stamp is the number 

of the packing plant at which the meat was processed. 

2. Frozen beef is divided into three cooking groups — ^beef 

suitable for roasts and frying, beef suitable for boiling 
and stewing, and beef suitable for ground meat dishes. 

3. Meat grading is based on conformation, finish, and quality. 

4. Good veal has a light brownish pink color. 

5. The most common cuts of fresh pork are loins, shoulders, 

hams, and spareribs. 

6. No. 1 Grade, Size A potatoes are best for shipboard use. 

7. Carrots acceptable for Navy use must be at least 3 inches 

long. 

8. Decay appears on egg plant as dark brown spots. 

9. Strawberries must be at least ^ of an inch thick to be 

acceptable. 

10. The shells on dead oysters are open and gaping. 

CHAPTER 4 

STORING PROVISIONS 

1. The oldest stock of flour should be used first. 

2. Commercial sodium fluoride is used to get rid of roaches 

and water bugs. 


^60 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



3. Corks will not dry out if the containers are laid on their 

sides. 

4. As coffee absorbs paint odors easily, it should be kept 

away from freshly painted places. 

5. The temperature of the butter and egg box should be from 

30° to 32° F. 

6. Granulated sugar sweats and becomes hard at tempera- 

tures over 80° F. 

7. The vegetable dr chill room should be kept around 45° F. 

8. Light destroys the coloring of cucumber pickles. 

9. Bananas blacken and spoil if kept in the refrigerator. 

10. Vegetables should be sorted frequently so the spoiled ones 

may be removed before the spoilage spreads. 

11. Large pieces of frozen meat should be thawed slowly at 

about 45° F. so the outside will not spoil before the 
inner part is completely thawed. At high temperatures 
the outside meat will spoil quickly. 

12. The chief advantage of dehydrated products is in the 

saving of space. 


CHAPTER 5 

ISSUE AND DISPOSAL OF PROVISIONS 

1. Provisions are ordered from the bulk storeroom by means 

of stub requisitions. 

2. Four and one-half pounds of sugar are needed to make 75 

portions of chocolate. 

3. Ninety pounds of halibut steaks are needed for 225 por- 

tions. 

4. About 329 pounds of boneless beef will be needed for 

825 portions. 

5. About 2,419 pounds of dressed frying chickens are needed 

for 2,150 portions. 

6. The total cost of 1,450 pounds of wheat flour at $.029 per 

pound is $42.05. 

7. The ration cost is $.6653. 


Digitized 


V Google 


261 

Original 1tDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



8. Stock tally cards are used in the bulk storeroom to keep 

track of the provisions. 

9. The frozen beef for stewing and boiling should be charged 

at $.21 per pound, if the average cost of all the frozen 
beef is $.23 per pound. 

10. Spoiled provisions should be laid aside for a survey. 

CHAPTER 6 

food— WHAT IT IS 

1. Fats have the most calories per pound. 

2. Proteins are best for building up your muscles. 

3. Potatoes are better than fish or meat for furnishing carbo- 

hydrates. 

4. Meat is better than cereals or potatoes for furnishing 

proteins. 

5. Your bones and teeth need calcium and phosphorus. 

6. Milk is better than meat or oranges for furnishing calcium. 

7. Your blood needs iron in order to develop the red coloring 

matter. 

8. Eggs are better than oranges and potatoes for furnishing 

iron. 

9. Vitamin C prevents scurvy. 


CHAPTER 7 

MENU PLANNING 

1. If you’re serving a heavy meal, the soup should be light. 

2. Butter is particularly good for supplying vitamin A. 

3. Meat supplies large amounts of thiamin and riboflavin. 

4. You can find the ration limit for your ship in the BuSandA 

Manual or in the BuSandA Memoranda. 

5. One Navy ration includes 3 meals. 

6. Plan to prepare 20 ounces of fresh meat. 

7. The cold weather season is best for serving hot soups, 

roasts, and heavy puddings. 


26 ^ 1 

Digitized by 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



8. Tomatoes supply a large amount of vitamin C. 

9. Five ounces of sugar is listed in the Navy Ration. 


CHAPTER 8 

GALLEY AND BUTCHER SHOP EQUIPMENT 

1. A heavier load may burn out the mechanism. 

2. More than just the peelings will be removed if the potatoes 

are allowed to remain in the machine very long. 

3. The meat should be forced into the hopper with a wooden 

plunger. 

4. The exhaust valve should be opened before the steam 

valve is opened. 

5. The heat of the oven is controlled by a thermostat. 

6. The main switch should be pulled when the electric range 

is not in operation. 

7. When the saw is being used, the saw blade should be 

tightened only enough to keep it from slipping. 

8. The meat block should be cleaned with a scraper and wire 

brush only. 

9. The ice acts as an insulator and keeps the refrigerator 

from cooling properly. 


CHAPTER 9 

CUTTING MEAT THE NAVY WAY 

1. The flank is removed first from the beef hindquarter. 

2. The boneless hanging tender of beef is used for stewing 

and grinding. 

3. Beef tenderloin is used for steaks or roasts. 

4. Beef bones can be used for soup stock. 

5. The arm and shank is toward the bottom when the beef 

forequarter is hung up properly. 

6. The boning knife serves as a guide for cutting. 

7. The beef chuck tender is good for braising. 

8. Lamb is better than beef or veal for cutting into chops. 


Digitized 


V Google 


263 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



CHAPTER 10 

WHAT’S COOKING 


1. Clear soup is prepared by straining the soup stock. 

2. Cream soups are made with hot milk. 

3. Thin slices of meat get done clear through before the out- 

side gets browned. 

4. No fat is used in griddle broiling. 

5. Never use pork in stews. 

6. Vegetables should be added to stews after the meat has 

been partly cooked so that the meat and vegetables will 
be done at the same time. 

7. Dehydrated foods must be reconstituted before they are 

cooked. 

8. Wilted vegetables can be refreshed by placing them in ice 

cold water. 

9. When vegetables are tender, they have been cooked long 

enough. 

10. The addition of ice makes the tea weaker. 


CHAPTER II 

THE ARITHMETIC OF RECIPES 

1. Change cups to tablespoons by multiplying the number of 

cups by 16. 

2. Change pounds to ounces by multiplying the number of 

pounds by 16. 

3. Each Navy Cook Book recipe is made out for 100 portions. 

4. Three-fourths of a Navy Cook Book recipe should be 

used for 75 portions. 

5. One-tenth of a Navy Cook Book recipe should be used 

for 10 men. 

6. There are 30 dozen eggs in a case. 

7. Fourteen and one-half dozen eggs should be used for 733 

portions of chicken croquettes. 

8. Twelve and one-half tablespoons of pepper should be used 

for 1,875 portions of oven broiled mackerel. 


264 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



CHAPTER 12 


BAKING 

1. The yeast makes the bread dough light and porous. 

2. Salt helps control the fermentation of the bread dough, 

3. If the dough falls away when you remove your fingers, it 

is ready for the punch. 

4. The loaves should be placed in the pans so that the mold- 

ing seams face the bottom of the pan. 

5. Bread should be baked at temperatures between 375® F. 

and 450° F. depending on the size of the loaf. 

6. The crust on good Navy bread is golden brown. 

7. Sponge cakes are made light through the beating of the 

eggs and sugar. 

8. Marshmallow icing cannot be stored for any length of 

time. 

9. Slits are made in the upper crust of a pie to permit the 

escape of steam when the pie is baking. 

10. Using plenty of egg whites is the secret of a good 

meringue. 

11. New pans should be lightly greased and then baked in a 

hot oven for about 4 hours before they are used for 
baking. 

12. Too much sugar or richness makes cake doughnuts greasy. 

CHAPTER 13 

DISHING IT UP 

1. A little paprika sprinkled over mashed potatoes or potato 

salad adds color. 

2. It’s better to serve liver and bacon together. 

3., The food stays warmer longer if it is placed in hot trays. 
4. Garnishing helps make the food attractive. 


Digitized b'; 


/ Google 


263 

Original frDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



CHAPTER 14 

SOMETHING ABOUT POISONS 

1. Bacteria are the main source of food poisoning. 

2. When food becomes spoiled, the spoilage usually occurs 

between the time it is cooked and the time it is eaten. 

3. The 4 hour rule states that food should always be served 

within 4 hours from the time it is cooked. 

4. Dehydrated foods spoil most easily after they have been 

reconstituted. 

5. A taste of poisonous canned food might cause death or 

serious illness. 

6. Cadmium poisoning occurs sometimes when food has been 

prepared in a cadmium plated utensil. 

7. Tin or aluminum food containers do not cause poisoning. 

8. Strange plants and animals should be eaten only when the 

natives of the area in which the foods are found eat them. 

9. Always prepare pork well done in order to prevent trich- 

inosis. 

10. Bacteria grow best at temperatures between 65* F. and 
115* F. 

CHAPTER 15 

LANDING FORCE COOKING 

1. The Bluejackets’ Manual contains information about first 

aid. 

2. The straw helps hold the mud together. 

3. The fire dries out the oven and makes it usable. 

4. Field bread is the type of bread most easily baked in an 

outside oven. 

5. Fresh provisions should always be inspected by the medi- 

cal department before the provisions are used. 

6. Roux can be used instead of stock as a base for soup when 

soup stock is not available. 

7. The Lyster bag is a device used to make water safe for 

drinking. 

8. Purifying water by heat takes a long time and uses up a 

large amount of fuel. 

9. Garbage should be burned or buried — preferably burned. 


266 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



QUALIFICATIONS FOR SHIP’S COOK 3c 

(A) PRACTICAL FACTORS 

(a) D-5204, (1). (Primary requirements of all petty 

officers.) 

(b) Galley range — Demonstrate ability to start, operate, 

secure and clean galley range in own ship or station, 
(r) Watch standing — Demonstrate ability to stand 
watch in the galley in own ship or station. 

(d) Mechanical apparatus — Demonstrate ability to 

start, operate, stop, and clean all mechanical appara- 
tus used in the preparation of food in own ship 
or station. 

(e) Cuts of meiat — Demonstrate ability to cut meat 

properly for its various uses. 

(/) Food preparation — Demonstrate ability to prepare 
food for cooking and to supervise food prepara- 
tion. Demonstrate ability to prepare, cook, and serve 
any four dishes selected by examining board, in- 
cluding a vegetable, meat, and dessert. 

(B) EXAMINATION SUBJECTS 

(a) Sanitary precautions — Know the sanitary precau- 

tions to be observed by commissary personnel in the 
stowage, preparation and issue of food. 

(b) Care of equipment — Know the routine to be ob- 

served for the maintenance and proper sanitary 
condition of refrigerators, vegetable lockers, meat 
blocks, etc. 

(c) Organization — Know the organization of the gen- 

eral mess in own ship or station. 

(d) Regulations — Know the regulations regarding the 

withdrawal of provisions from N. S. A. storerooms. 

(e) Food theory — Know the classes and groups into 

which foods are divided and the function of each 
in a diet. Know the function of vitamins and their 
source in various foodstuffs. 

(/) Menus — Prepare a menu for one week illustrating a 
properly balanced diet, and using the foodstuffs 


Digitized t 


739872 * — 47 - 

. Google 


-18 


267 

Original 1tDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



normally found on board ship. (Examining board 
will indicate the season and the location of the 
ship). 

(g) Cuts of meat — Indicate on a quarter of beef and a 
side of veal the names, location, and proper uses of 
the various cuts of meat. 

(A) D-5203. (Fundamental knowledge required of all men 
in the Navy.) 


QUALIFICATIONS FOR SHIP'S COOK, 2c 

(A) PRACTICAL FACTORS 

(a) Cuts of meat — Demonstrate ability to cut meat 

properly and economically for its various uses. 

(b) Supervision — Demonstrate ability to supervise the 

delivery, inspection and storage of provisions and 
fresh meats. 

(c) D- 5210.01 (1) (A)., (Practical factors for Ship’s 

Cook 3c.) 

(B) EXAMINATION SUBJECTS 

(a) Bills-of-fare — Be able to plan and prepare bills-of- 
fare. 

(i>) Ordering and costs — Given a sample bill-of-fare 
for a week’s period, compute the quantity and cost 
of each item and the cost of the ration per man for 
that period. (Examining board will provide a copy 
of current contract prices.) 

(c) Regulations — Be familiar with the regulations and 

instructions w’ith regard to the Navy ration, sur- 
veys, and sales to messes. 

(d) Keeping qualities — Know the keeping qualities of 

the various kinds of provisions. 

(e) Storage temperatures — Know the storage temper- 

atures of the various kinds of provisions. 

(/) Recipes — Be familiar with standard Navy recipes. 

(g) D-5210.01 (1) (B). (Examination subjects for 

Ship’s Cook 3c.) 


268 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



TRAINING FILMS RECOMMENDED 
FOR 

COOKS AND BAKERS 


MA-3817 Conservation of Food {15 min.) 

A general film touching sanitation in the galley 
and mess hall; the importance of proportioning 
the amount of food to the number of men, weather 
conditions, and the type of work going on ; stow- 
age of food ; proper methods of serving food ; and 
the use of leftovers. 

MA-2220 The Fly {14 min.) 

The life cycle of the fly, how it spreads dis- 
ease, and how cleanliness assists in controlling 
flies. 

MA-2511A The Army Cook, Part I — Meat Cutting Tools 

and Equipment {20 min.) 

Sharpening, cleaning, and stowing knives and 
blocks, boning meat, and cutting pork chops and 
steaks. 


MA-2511B The Army Cook, Part II — Cutting a Hindquarter 

{13 min.) 

Removal of the kidney, knuckle, heel, round, 
tenderloin, sirloin, rump butt, and loin strip from 
a hindquarter of beef. 


MA-2511C The Army Cook, Part III — Cutting a Forequar- 
ter {17 min.) 

Removal of the shank, shoulder cut, chuck 
tender, boneless inside chuck, boneless neck, and 
brisket rolls from a forequarter of beef. 

MA-2511D The Army Cook, Part IV — Cutting Lamb {14 

min.) 

Boning, rolling, and tying the various cuts of 
lamb for roasting. 

MA-2511E The Army Cook, Part Y — Cutting Veal and 

Pork {13 min.) 

Removal of^ kidneys, tenderloin, short loin, sir- 
loin, rump and other parts of a side of veal; 
identification of the various cuts of pork. 


Digitized 


V Google 


269 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



MA-2822A Baking In The Field, Part I— The M1942 Field 

Baking Unit {28 min.) 

Although this film illustrates the use of army 
gear, the emphasis on precise measurement of 
ingredients, proper time and temperature, and 
the appearance of dough in various stages of 
preparation and baking are considered valuable 
training material. If preferred, the first part of 
this film may be omitted. 

MA-2511F The Army Cook, Part VI — Cooking and Carving 

Meat {18 min.) 

Preparation of beef stew, braised beef, sau- 
sages, bacon ; testing temperature of fat ; carving 
various cuts of meat. 


^70 

Digitized: by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



INDEX 


Air, effect on stored food, 36 
Animals, poisonous, 233 
Antimony poisoning, 232 
Apples, inspecting, 28 
Arithmetic of ordering, 
messes under 500, 
50, 51 

messes 500 to 1000, 52 
messes over 1000, 52, 
53 

of recipes, 193-200 
Aroma, menu planning, 77 
Arsenic poisoning, 37, 232, 
233 

Ashore, cooking, impro- 
vised ranges and 
stoves, 240-243 
Asparagus, inspecting, 24 
Attachments, electric 
mixer, 88 

Back, beef, trimming, 138, 
139 

Bacon, inspecting, 23 
Bacteria, conditions favor- 
ing growth, 230 
food poisoning from, 230 
Bake oven, view of, 209 
Bakeshop watches, 14 
Baking, 201-222. Bread, 
Cake, Pie. 
powder, 38 

Bananas, inspecting, 28 
storing, 45 
Barley, storing, 39 
Basic classes, foods, 74 
Basic sweet dough, 212, 

213 

for doughnuts, 221, 222 
Beans, inspecting, 25 
dried, storing 39 
Beef, chart, 104 
classes, 21 
conformation, 21 


cutting, 103, 155 
finish, 22 
inspecting, 21-23 

meat trimmings, uses, 
133 

quality, 22 
round, cuts, 122, 123 
bones, chart, 104 
uses, 133 
fat, uses, 133 

Beets, inspecting, 25 

Berries, inspecting, 29 

Bill of fare, approval of 
C.O., 7 

changes in, 10 

Blown cans, what to do 
with, 16 

Boneless beef rib, trimming, 
150, 151 
uses, 151 

brisket, removal, 149 
use, 149 
flank, uses, 110 

Bread, checking of, 210 
dough, intermediate 
proof, 207 
faults, 211 
inspecting, 18, 19 
mixing dough, 204-206 
Navy, major ingredients, 
201 

what ingredients do, 
202, 203 

Breakfast cereals, value of, 
190 
foods, 39 
menu, 78, 79 

Breakouts, bulk storeroom, 
13 

Brisket, beef, boneless, 
loosening, l38 
removal, 149 
use, 149 


Digitized 


V Google 


271 

Original frDm 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



INDEX— Continued 


Broilers, preparing, 176, 

177 

Broiling, meat, 168 
Buifaloing machine, 93, 94 
Bulk storeroom, breakouts, 
13 

ordering from, 56, 57 
Butcher shop equipment, 
97-102 

Butter, inspecting, 33 
storing, 42 

Butter machine, 88, 89 
Butterscotch pie, 218 

Cabbage, inspecting, 25 
Cadmium poisoning, 232 
Cake, icings for, kinds, 215 
layer, 213, 214 
pound, 214 
sponge, 214, 215 
Cake, doughnuts, 221 
Calcium, function of, 64 
sources, 65 

Calcium hypochlorite, 245 

Calorie, what it is, 62 
Calories, amount needed, 

62 

Can, blown, what to do 
with, 16 

swollen, spoiling and, 31 
Candy, storing, 42 
Canned goods, inspecting, 
31 

storing, 40, 41 
vegetables, cooking, 181 

Cantaloupes, inspecting, 30 
Captain of sub mess, 
responsibility, 8 

of the watch, responsibi- 
lities, 12 

Carbohydrates, functions 
and sources, 66 
Card, stock tally, how to 

272 


fill out, 56 
use by jack of the 
dust, 56 
where kept, 13 
Carrots, inspecting, 25 
Carving knives, 98 
Cauliflower, inspecting, 26 
Celery, inspecting, 26 
quick-cooking, 190 
ready-to-eat, 190 
Changes in bill-of-fare, 10 
Check list, bread, 211 
Checking bread, 210 
Cheese, inspecting, 33 
storing, 43 

Chemical poisoning, 232, 
233 

Cherries, inspecting, 29 
Chicken, frying, pieces for, 
view of, 180 

Chief commissary steward, 
responsibilities, 9 

Chocolate milk, preparing, 
189 

Chops, lamb, 157-159 
Chuck cuts, beef, 140-144 
tender, beef, removing, 
145 

use, 145 

Classes of beef, 21 

Cleanliness, importance of, 
food poisoning, 234 
reasons for, 15 
Clod, upper half, beef trim- 
ming, 147 

Clothes, washing, 15 
Cockroaches, how to exter- 
minate, 37 

Cocoa, preparing, 189 
storing, 41 
Coffee, storing, 41 

precautions in making, 
187 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



INDEX — Continued 


Coffee makers, glass, 188 
urns, 89, 90 

Cold, effect on foods, 36 
dishes, serving, 226 

storage, 38 

Color scheme in menu plan- 
ning, 77 

Combat duties ashore, 238 
Commanding officer, ap- 
proval of bill-of-fare, 
7 

inspections, .77 
responsibilities, 6-8 
Commissary officer, respon- 
sibilities, 9 

Conditions favoring growth 
of bacteria, 230 
Conformation of beef, 21 
Conservation of hot water, 
15 

Containers, labelling, 21 
Cookies, preparing, 219, 220 
temperature, 220 
Cooking, 163-192 

ashore, improvised ranges 
and ovens, 240-243 
giblets, 176 
landing force, 237-247 
meats, 165-170 
over outside fire, 241, 

242 

poultry, 172-173 
vegetables, 183 
Cooks, combat duties 
ashore, 238 

mess, who they are, 10 
Coppers, 92, 93 
Com, inspecting, 26 
Com meal, storing, 39 
Cornstarch, storing, 38 

Cost of provisions, com- 
puting, 53 


Cost, ration, how to find, 
54, 55 

Crabs, inspecting, 31 
Crackers, storing, 38 
Cranberries, inspecting, 29 
Cream, inspecting, 33 
Cream icing, 215 
Crust, pie, types, 216 
Cube steak machine, 101, 
102 

Cucumbers, storing, 26 
Cutting meat, 103-162 
beef hindquarter, 105 
flank, 109 
hams, 161 
pork, 160 

smoked meats, 162 
veal, 160 

Cuts, beef, chuck, 140-144 
forequarter, 133 
lamb, diagram, 155 
making of, 156, 157 

Dairy products, inspecting, 
33 

storing, 42, 43 - 
Decimals, changing to 
fractions, 195 
Dehydrated products, space 
saved by, 48 
storing, 48 

vegetables, preparation, 
181, 182 

Deep fat fryer, 90, 91 
Department of Agriculture, 
inspection by, 20 
Desserts, planning, 187 
Diet, well-balanced, 73 
Dinner, planning, 79, 80 
Disjointing fryers and 
fowl, 178, 179 
Disposal of garbage, 10 
ashore, 246 
of provisions, 49 


Digitized 


V Google 


273 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



INDEX— Continued 


Docking pies, 218 
Doubtful food, what to do 
with, 16 

Dough, pie, handling, 216 
storing, 216 
punching, 206, 207 
refrigerating, 212, 213 
sweet, basic, 212 
Dough troughs, view of, 
205 

Doughnuts, basic sweet 
dough, 221, 222 
Doughnuts, cake, 221 
Drawing, poultry, 175 
Dressed poultry, inspecting, 

32 

Dried beans, 39 
Drills, who excused from, 
14 

Dry provisions, by whom 
issued, 49 
storing, 38, 39, 40 
Duties, masters at arms, 8 
Ship’s Cook Second Class, 
2, 3 

Ship’s Cook Third Class, 
2, 3 

Dysentery, cause of, 234 

Egg noodles, storing, 40 
Eggplants, inspecting, 26 
Eggs, scrambling, 191 
value of, 191 

Eggs, shell, inspecting, 32, 

33 

storing, 43 

Electric meat grinding 
machine, 98, 99 
meat saw, 100 
mixer, 87, 88 
attachments, 88 
range, 83, 84 
Energy foods, 66 



Equipment, butcher shop, 
97-102 
galley, 83-97 
Evaporated milk, 41 
Executive officer, respon- 
sibilities, 8 

Extracts, flavoring, 47 

Fat, frying, care of, 222 
functions, 66 
sources, 66 
Faults in bread, 211 
Feather bones, view of, 22 
Fillings, pie, 219 
Finish of beef, 22 
Fires, when to be extin- 
guished, 16 

First lieutenant, respon- 
sibilities, 10 
Fish, inspecting, 31 
preparing, 179-181 
Flaky pie crust, preparing, 
216 

Flank, beef, boneless, uses, 
110 

removing, 106-109 
Flat souring, 32 
Flavor in menu planning, 
77 

Flavoring extracts, storing, 
47 

Flour, storing, 40 

use in breadmaking, 203 
Fluoride poisoning, 232, 

233 

Fondant cream icing, 215 
Food, constituents and their 
purposes, 61-72 
basic classes, 74 
breakfast, 39 
doubtful, what to do with, 
16 

energy, 66 

how much needed, 62 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



INDEX — Continued 


Poisoning, from bacteria, 
230 

importance of cleanli- 
ness, 234 
prevention, 231 
right combinations, 62- 
70 

serving, 9 

slicing machine, 93, 94 
temperature, effect on, 
36 

what it is, 61, 62 
Forequarter, beef, trim- 
ming, 134-136 
cuts, 133-155 
diagram, 133 
Form, menu planning, 77 
Four-trench cooking 
system, 242 
illustrated, 243 
Fowl, disjointing, 178-179 
Fresh fruits, inspecting, 
28-31 

unfrozen fruits, storing, 
44 

Fruits, issuing, 49 
preparing, 184 
serving, 184 
storing, 44 
value, 184 

Fryers, disjointing, 178-179 
Frying fat, care, 222 
meat, 169 
Fudge icing, 215 

Galley equipment, 83-97 
getting provisions into, 
49, 50 
lineup, 11 
regulations, 15, 16 
watches, 14 

Garbage disposal ashore, 
246 

by landing force, 246 


in port, 60 
responsibility for, 10 
Garnishing, suggestions 
for, 225 

Gear, mess, washing, 247 
General mess, 5-16 

responsibilities of en- 
listed men, 10-13 
responsibilities of 
officers, 6-10 
chart, 7 

statement of issues 
and cost of rations, 
10 

Giblets, cooking, 176 
preparing, 17^176 
Glass coffee makers, 188 
Goods, canned, storing, 40, 
41 

Grapefruit, inspecting, 29 
Grapes, inspecting, 29 
Gravies, preparation, 189 
Greens, inspecting, 26 
salad, selecting ingredi- 
ents for, 185, 186 
Griddle broiling meat, 168 
Grits, hominy, storing, 39 

Ham, cutting, 161 
inspecting, 23, 24 
overseas, 172 
Handling of keys, 16 
Hanging tender, beef, 110 
Heel meat, beef, removing, 
132 133 

trimming, 132, 133 
Heat, effect on food, 36 
Heat, use in exterminating 
insects, 37, 38 
Hindquarter cuts, beef, 
cutting, 105 
inspecting, 21 
removing fat from in- 
side, 111-113 


Digitized 


V Google 


275' 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



INDEX — Continued 


sections of, 105 
uses of, 105-133 

Hock joint, beef, view of, 
173 

Hominy grits, storing, 39 
Honey dew melons, inspect- 
ing, 30 

Hot dishes, serving, 226 
water, conserving, 15 
Hours of messing, who sets, 

6 

Ice cream, inspecting, 34 
storing, 43 

Icings, cake, kinds of, 215 
temperature for, 215 
Insects, 36-38 

control ashore, 247 
exterminating with heat, 
37, 38 

temperatures favorable 
to, 37 

Inside (top) round, beef, 
removing, 126, 127 
Inspecting eggs, 33 
Inspection, by C.O., 7 
of bread, 18, 19 
of canned goods, 31, 32 
of dairy products, 33-34 
Department of Agri- 
culture, 19, 20 
of fresh fruits, 28-31 
of meats, 21-24 
medical officer, 8 
of poultry, 32 
of sea foods, 31 
shell eggs, 32-33 
vegetables, 24-28 
quality, quantity, 18, 20 
stamps, 20 

views of, 19, 20 
Intermediate proof of bread 
dough, 207 


Iodine, functions, 65 
sources, 65 

tincture of, for purifying 
water, 245 

Iron, functions and sources, 
65 

Issue of provisions, 49 
room, supervision of, 13 

Jack of the dust, respon- 
sibilities, 13 

Jams and jellies, storing, 42 
Joint, hock, view of, 173 

Keys, handling, 16 
Kidney, use of, 113 
Kitchen pits, 246, 247 
Knives, carving, 98 
Knuckle, beef, removing tip, 
123-125 
uses of, 125 

Labelling of containers, 21 
Lamb, inspecting, 23 
leg chops, 159 
loin chops, 159 
roasts, 157 

Lamb cuts, diagram, 155 
Landing force cooking, 
237-247 

improvised ranges and 
ovens, 240-243 
water supply, 244 
garbage disposal, 246 
Lard, storing, 47 
Layer cake, mixing, 213, 
214 

Lead poisoning, 232 
Leg chops, lamb, 159 
Legumes, food values in, 75 
Lemons, inspecting, 29 
Lemonade, preparing, 189 
Lettuce, inspecting, 26 


276 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



INDEX — Continued 


Light, effect on stored food, 
36 

Lima beans, inspecting, 25 
Limits, money, 76 
Lineup, galley, 11 
Lobsters, inspecting, 31 
Lockers, vegetable, 86 
Loin, beef, short, removing, 
114-116 
pork, use, 161 
Loin chops, lamb, 159 
Loin strip, beef, making, 
118 

use, 118 

Loosening, beef, brisket, 138 
beef, plate, 138 
Lyster bag, 244 

Macaroni, storing, 38 
Machine, buffaloing, 93, 94 
cube steak, 101, 102 
meat grinding, electric, 
98, 99 

potato dicer, 95, 96 
peeler, 94, 95 

Marbling in meat, view of, 
22 

Marshmallow icing, 215 
Master at arms, duties, 8 
Meal, corn, storing, 39 
Mealy pie crust, preparing, 
216 

Meat, broiling, 168 
cooking, 165-170 
cutting, 103-162 
frying, 169 
^ddle broiling, 168 
inspecting, 19, 20 
issuing, 49 
roasting, 166-168 
smoked, cutting, 162 
stewing, 169, 170 
storing, 45, 46 


Meat, block, 97 
grinding machine, elec- 
tric, 98, 99 
saw, electric, 100 
sheer, 101 

Medical officer, inspection 
by, 8 

responsibility, 8, 9 
Melons, inspecting, 30 
Menu planning, 73-82 
aroma and, 77 
color scheme in, 77 
flavor and, 77 
form of foods in, 77 
Navy Cook Book, 74-76 
provisions available, 76 
season of the year, 76 
test of good, 81 
texture, 77 
variety, 78 

Mess, general. See General 
mess. 

sales to, 57-59 
sub, captain of, respon- 
sibilities, 8 

under 500, arithmetic 
of ordering, 50, 51 
500 to 1,000, arithmetic 
of ordering, 52 
over 1,000, arithmetic 
of ordering, 52, 53 
Mess cooks, who they are, 
10 

gear, washing, 247 
Messing, hours of, who sets, 
6 

Methods of mixing dough 
for bread, 204-206 
Methyl chloride poisoning, 
233 

Milk, inspecting, 33 
evaporated, storing, 41 
powder, 41 

use in breadmaking, 203 


Digitized by 


Google 


277 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



INDEX — Continued 


Minerals, in food, function 
of, 64, 65 

Mixer, electric, 87, 88 
Mixing, salad, 186 
Money limits, 76 
Mud oven, 240 
range, 239 
view of, 238 

Mushrooms, necessity for 
care in selecting, 233 
Mussels, 233 
Navy Cook Book, fresh 

vegetable guide in, 
183 

menu planning, 74-76 
Navy ration, 74 
Neck meat, beef, removal 
and use, 144 
Niacin, functions and 
sources, 69, 70 
Night rations, authority 
for, 14 

Noodles, egg, storing, 40 

Oil range, 84, 85 
Onions, inspecting, 26 
Open pies, preparing, 218 
Oranges, inspecting, 30 
Ordering from bulk store- 
room, 56, 57 
Ortho-toluidine, 245 
Outside fire, cooking over, 
241, 242 

Outside (bottom) round, 

beef, removing the, 
128-131 

Oven, mud, 240 

steep bank, 240, 241 
temperatures, 209 
Overseas ham, preparation, 
172 

Oysters, storing, 46 
278 


Pan, conditioning for 
cookies, 220 
Parsley, inspecting, 27 
Parsnips, inspecting, 27 
Peaches, inspecting, 30 
Pears, inspecting, 30 
Peas, inspecting, 27 
Peppers, inspecting, 27 
Petty officers, requirements 
for all, 3, 4 

Phosphorus in food, func- 
tions, 64 
sources, 65 
Pickles, storing, 47 
Pie, butterscotch, 218 
docking, 218 
fillings, 219 
open, preparing, 218 
trouble shooting, 219 
two-crust, preparing, 
216, 217 

Pie crust, types, 216 
Pits, kitchen, for landing 
force cooking, 248, 
247 

Plants, poisonous, 233 
Plate meat, beef, loosening, 
138 

removing, 137 
use, 137 

Plums, inspecting, 30 
Poisoning, antimony, 232 
arsenic, 232, 233 
bacteria, 230 
cadmium, 232 
food-, 229-236 
from chemicals, 232, 233 
fluoride, 232, 233 
food, prevention of, 231 
lead, 232 

methyl chloride, 233 
zinc, 232 

Poisonous animals, 233 
plants, 233 


Digitized by 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



INDEX — Continued 


Pork, cutting, 160 
inspecting, 23 
loins, use, 161 
Port watch, 11, 14 
Portions, correct serving of, 
227 

Potato dicer, 95, 96 

peeler, 94 ; also vegetable 
peeler, 94, 95 

Potatoes, inspecting, 24 
sweet, inspecting, 24 
Poultry, cooking, 172, 173 
inspecting, 32 
preparing for cooking, 
173-175 
storing, 45, 46 
Pound cakes, mixing, 214 
Powder, milk, storing, 41 
Powdered eggs, scrambling, 
191 

Proofing cabinet, tempera- 
ture, 208 

Prevention of food poison- 
ing, 231 

Proteins in food, functions, 
63, 64 
sources, 64 

Provisions, quality and 

quantity inspections, 
18 

amount to order, 50 
available, menu planning, 
76 

computing cost, 53 
disposal of, 49 
dry, issuing, 49 
storing, 38-40 
inspecting, 17-34 
issuing, 49-62 
kind to order, 50 
storing, 35-48 
Prunes, inspecting, 30 
storing, 40 


Punching, dough, 206, 207 
Proofing cabinet, view of, 
208 

Purifying water for landing 
force cooking, 244 

V 

Quality and quantity in- 
spections, 18-20 
Quick-cooking cereals, 190 
Quick-frozen vegetables, 
preparation, 182 

Radishes, inspecting, 27 
Range, electric, 83, 84 
mud, 239 
view of, 238 
oil, 84, 85 

Ration cost, how to find, 54, 
55 

definition, 54 
in kind, what it is, 55 
night, authority for, 14 
voucher, 59 

Ready-to-eat cereals, 191 
Recipes, arithmetic of, 
193-200 

arithmetic of portions, 
198, 199 

units of measure, 193, 
194 

Refrigerating dough, 212, 
213 

Refrigerators, 86 
Regulation of watches, 9 
Regulations, galley, 15, 16 
Relishes, types of, 186 
use, 186 

Requirements for all petty 
officers, 3, 4 
Requisition, stub, 56, 57 
Responsibilities for general 
mess, 7-13 


Digitized 


V Google 


279 

Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



INDEX — Continued 


Rhubarb leaves, sometimes 
poisonous, 233 
Rib, boneless, beef, removal, 
trimming and use, 
150, 151 

Rib chops, lamb, 158, 159 
Riboflavin, function and 
sources, 71 
Rice, storing, 40 
Roasting meat, 166-168 
poultry, how to truss, 176 
Roasts, lamb, 157 
Rope in bread, 205 
Roughage, importance and 
sources, 71 

Round, inside (top) , remov- 
ing, 126, 127 

outside (bottom) , remov- 
ing, 128-131 

Salad mixing of, 186 
value of, 185 

Salad greens, selecting in- 
gredients, 185, 186 
Sales to messes, 57-59 
Salt, storing, 47 

use in breadmaking, 202 
Sandwiches, preparation, 
189, 190 

Sauces, preparation, 189 
Scales, use, 85 
Scrambling powdered eggs, 
191 

Sea foods, inspecting, 31 
storing, 46, 47 
Season of the year, menu 
planning, 76 

Senior butcher, responsibi- 
lities, 12 

galley cook, responsibili- 
ties, 11, 12 
Serving, 223-228 
cold dishes, 226 
correct portions, 227 


280 

Digitized by Google 


hot dishes, 226 
responsibility for, 9 
vegetables, 183 
Shank meat, beef, remov- 
ing and trimming, 
132, 133 

Shell eggs, inspecting, 32 
Shellfish, inspecting, 31 
sometimes poisonous, 233 
Ship’s Cook Second Class, 
duties, 2, 3 

Ship’s Cook Third Class, 
duties, 2, 3 

Short flaky pie crust, pre- 
paring, 216 

loin, removing, 114-116 
Shortening, use in bread- 
making, 203 

Shoulder chops, lamb, 158 
Simmering, reason for, 170 
Sirloin-rump butt, remov- 
ing, 119-122 
use, 122 

Sirups, storing, 42 
Skirt meat, beef, removing, 
137 

use, 137 

Smoked meats, cutting, 162 
Smoking, where done, 15 
Snap beans, inspecting, 25 
Soda, storing, 38 
Sodium fluoride, use against 
insects, 37 
Soup, kinds, 165 

preparation, 163, 164 
vegetables in, 164-165 
stock, preparation, 164- 
165 

Spaghetti, storing, 38 
Spare ribs, preparation, 161 
Spices, storing, 47 
Sponge cake, mixing, 214, 
215 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



INDEX — Continued 


Spud coxswain, responsibi- 
lities, 13 

Squash, inspecting, 27 
Stamps, inspection, 19, 20 
Starboard watch, 11, 14 
Statement of issues to gen- 
eral mess and cost 
of rations daily, 13 
responsibility for pre- 
paring, 10 

Statement of sales to mess, 
ration voucher and, 
59 

Steamers, 96, 97 
Steep bank oven, 240, 241 
Stewing meat, 169, 170 
Stock, soup, preparation, 
164-165 

Stock tally card, where 
kept, 13 

how to fill out, 56 
use by jack of the dust, 
56 

Storage, cold, 38 
Storeroom, bulk, breakouts, 
13 

ordering from, 56, 57 
Storing, dairy products, 42, 
43 

dry provisions, 38-40 
eggs, 43 
fruits, 44 
ice cream, 43 
meat, 45, 46 
poultry, 45, 46 
provisions, 35-48 
sea food, 46, 47 
sweets, 40, 41 
vegetables, 45 
yeast, 44 

Straight-dough method, 
204-206 

Strikers, who they are, 11 


Digitized 


V Google 


stub requisition, 56 
how filled out, 57 
Sub mess, captain of, re- 
sponsibility, 8 
setting up of, 8 
Sugar, storing, 41 

use in breadmaking, 203 
Supervision of issue room, 
13 

Supper, planing menu, 80 
Supply officer, responsibili- 
ties, 9 
Surveys, 59 

Sweet potatoes, inspecting, 
24 

Sweets, storing, 40, 41 
Swollen can, spoiled food 
and, - 31 

Tea, preparing, 188, 189 
storing, 41 

Temperature, effect on 
foods, 36 

favorable to insects, 37 
for basic sweet dough- 
nuts, 221-222 
for cookies, 220 
for icings, 215 
for cake, 213, 214 
oven, 209 

proofing cabinet, 208 
recording, 13 
Tender, hanging, 110 

Tenderloin, beef, removing, 
trimming, and uses, 
117 

Texture of food, menu- 
planning, 77 

Thawing frozen meats, 46 
Thiamin, function and 
sources, 69 
Tomatoes, inspecting 
Trichinosis, cause of, 234 

281 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



INDEX — Continued 


Trimming, beef, clod, upper 
half, 147 

forequarters, 134-136 
bones, 154, 155 
rib, boneless, 150-151 

Turnips, inspecting, 27 

Two-crust pies, preparing, 
216-217 

Units of measure, recipes, 
193, 194 

Upper half clod, beef trim- 
ming, 147 

Variety in menu plannning, 
78 

Veal, cutting, 160 
inspecting, 23 

Vegetable locker, 86 
peeler, 94 

Vegetables, canned, cook- 
ing, 181 

dehydrated, preparation, 
181, 182 

in soup, 164, 165 
inspecting, 24-28 
issuing, 49 

Vegetables, preparing, for 
cooking, 182, 183 
quick-frozen, preparation, 
182 

serving, 183 
storing, 45 

Vinegar, storing, 47 

Vitamin, 67-71 


Vitamin A, functions and 
sources of, 68 
B family, 68-70 
C function and sources, 
70 

Voucher, ration, and state- 
ment of sales to 
mess, 59 

Washing of clothes, 15 

Washing mess gear ashore, 
247 

Watches, bakeshop, 14 
galley, 14 

port and starboard, 11, 
14, 

regulation of, 9 

Water, importance of, 71 
in air, effect on foods, 36 
purifying for landing 
force cooking, 244 
water containers, cleans- 
ing, 245 

supply for cooking 
ashore, 244 

use in breadmaking, 203 

Watermelon, inspecting, 30 

Well-balanced diet, how to 
provide, 73 

Work sheets, use of in 
ordering, 50 

Yeast, storing, 44 

use in breadmaking, 202 

Zinc poisoning, 232 


— U, 5 GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1947 


282 

Digitized by Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



Digitized tsy 


Google 


Original from 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 



