Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



Institutional Feedinq Manaqers 
^ 7 Stewards-Chefs-Cooks 



A TTCMTIOH PLEASB J 



Vol. 3 No. H 



April 2, 1945. 



J 



OF USED KITC KEN FATS IN '451 



To help meet MINIMUM requirements on products made from inedible 
tailor-/ and grease, we must salvage 250 million pounds of used kitchen 
fats. 

These salvage fats are needed to meet expanding military and 
industrial requirements for munitions, medicines, military soaps and 
other things, including - 

Coatings that protect ships, tanks, fabrics, and 
other implements of war. 

Synthetic Rubber manufacture and processing. 

Kyrirolic Fluids - for those big bulldozer lifting 
mechanisms and others. 

Printer Ink - for the Nation's presses. 

These salvage fats, even 250 million pounds of them, only help to 
make up the deficit in our available supplies of inedible fats. Even that 
quantity is not enough to do the whole job. 



IN SUHARY: 



The Nation is tapping every available source for its needed 



fats and oils. Domestic sources provide 90 percent of the 12 billion pounds 
of all types of fats used and exported in 1944. In 1945> we are unable to 
look forward to importing any additional substantial supplies to aid this 
situation, so - 



L E T'S M A K E FAT S A L V A C- E 



HABIT! 



WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF DISTRIBUTION 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3» California 

Telephone Exbrook 838l-Ex,U7 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 




vol. lio, 3h. 



SERVING MAN¥?5.. 

Food news for food managers in \ ndli^l^ ^H^i^y^^ 
plants, restaurants, hotels, and h(ft#it2.1s ^^^"46fivc|y^^ 



WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION 
Commodity Credit Corporation 
Office of Supply 

August 27, IS 43 



DAILY OPERATlDuAL COST CONTROL 



A large number of industrial feeding e staol ishirLents are "being operated at the 
present t ir-is - w ith . a inihir.u.Ti of financial control. Rapid expansion of old facil- 
ities, uev; iii-Tlant food services with inexperienced operators, and shortage of 
clerical v;or leers, all account in sone rieasure for this situation. 

A Daily Food Service Cost Control institutes a rsport on performance which shows 
whetlier the industrial feeding operation is bfling run on a sound financial basis, 
and, if not, it i.idicates v.-here the difficulties lie. 

In order to keep all the costs, food, labor and other operating expenses to ap- 
oroxiiiate ly the desired percenta?:C' a daily current record systein. is essential. 

This syjitnin shows daily -orogross being niade in r.ioeting the budget's standards 
for the various major itoins of exponso, including food, labor, and other opera- 
tional items. By keeping such a daily record, the rianager of the food service 
can take ccrroctivc action insnodia t-ly when any costs exceed, or are belo-j the 
budget set up for the particular item. For exainpl>.;, if the budget provides for 
a 33% food cost, a ^5% labor cost, and a Icifo cost for all other itei:is, this 
syste-n shows daily hov^ closoly the ooeration is mooting the budget standards . 
Foi' this reason such e .-^ystoin is most valuable when the manager analyz>./S the 
cost r: CO rd s d ai ly . 

Only in this way can undesirable tror.ds bo correctud i;.mediatoly and steps ta.;;on 
to lajcp costs on a healthy course. Costs may often be far out of line by th.. 
time thu monthly profit and loss statem^jnt is prvparwd. For this reason, a 
daily re-^ort system is recommended. 



RE: P0T.vT03S 

Industrial fecdiag operators, re str.urant s and hotels h-^ve boon encouraged to 
serve more notatoos during this tiiTic when meat, butt..r, eggs and sugar are what 
your customers vmnt. The fact remains th- t in spitj of these shortages we li/iYE 
potc.tces, and in - rcator suppl; than Cf-.m oe absorbed at the current r?^tcs of con- 
sumption. So, if you C';'.n add more poto.tocs to your daily food program — do so, 
rnd contii'iuo to do so until the crop of U.S. --/l potatoes r,r.e utilized completely. 
Serv_. thv.m morr-; frequently -.^s ing my of the nr.ny popub'r menus, '"'rge their max- 
imum use throigh your plont paper, 

"Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street, San Francisco 3,^°faf iVorn ia" 



Page 2 



In cr dcr to fully pssist industrial food services in establishin,^" r, d-^.ily op- 
erational cost control system, vie have v. proposed form which is avr.ilo.blo 
gratis upon request. Consulting services of an Industrial Feeding Specialist 
in this connection is also available. 

To secure your cony of the forms for the DAILY 0FI:RATI0I'IAL COST CwHTROL system, 
fill in the form belowo 



DAILY OPERATIOITAL COST COilTROL 

Conpany Name 



Attention of ^Title 

'( ^ our Name ) 

Address 



SEI© THIS FQPII TO: 

Uo S. DSPARTLiEKT OF AGRICiJLT^JRS - OFFICE OF SUPPLY (CCC) 
Industrial Feeding Section, Room 355 
821 Martet Street, San Francisco J, California 
Telephone SXbrcok 3331 - Ex« 89 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



Institutional Feedinq Manaqers 



1 



Stewards-Chefs-Cooks 



Vol. 3 No. 5 



Januaiy 29, 1945 
J.ETHODS OF STrUIiiTING COUNTER SALES 



I'any f-?Gtors affect the attitude of customers towaird the food 
offered ai'id help to p^-ornote the sale. j\mong those that stimu- 
late appetiti^ and pro>;iDte sales are: 




1. 
2. 
3. 
A, 
5. 
6. 

7. 



10. 



11. 



Pleasant, alert, accoiwnodating counter attendants 

Pronpt, attentive service. 

Clean, orderl;'" coanterB, 

Appetising, attractive food.- 

Well-filled containers of food. 

Convenient arrai>:^erient and grouping of foods 
on the counter. 

Straight rows of disheg. 

'7ell-placed "lenu boards and individual food- 
price signs. 

Appropriate . and timely suggestions about food 
given by attendants. 

Careful dishing of f cods making attractive 
individual portions. 

Efficient service aiding to keeo the line 

movitig T.ithout making the customers feel hurried. 



Glean counters, orderly/- attractive displays of food, prompt atten- 
tion, and skiLful ser^vice are possible v;hen the counter is carefully 
arranged before the service period begins; is efficiently supoiied 
during raeal hours, and is thoroughly cleaned and put in order after 
the servi.n^; period is concluded. Only when each part of this vjcrk 

WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF DISTRIBUTION (over) 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3, California 

Telephone Exbrook 838l-Ex,i4.7 



Page 2' - 



is done carefully and iiitelligently can service to the customer be 
efficient. 

The counter attendant should give her entire attention to the cus- 
tomer in front of her and listen carefully to his food order so 
that he will not have to repeat it. To help anticipate the customer's 
order, she should learn~to observe the kind of food on his tray and 
the direction of his glance toward the food displayed on the counter. 

The attendant should indicate that she is ready to be of assistance 
in selecting the customer's meal, and to serve him immediately. It 
is discourteous to the customer to appear to be indifferent or re- 
luctant to serve- him. 

Plates should be served quickly but with due regard for their neat- 
ness and attractive appearance, being sure saucies or other accompani- 
ments are served with the appropriate foods. 

It is necessary to keep the line moving by timely suggestions about 
food selection. The customer should not be made to feel he is being 
rushed. 

Customer requests for foods not on the menu should be remembered and 
reported to the supervisor or manager. 

The counter attendant should be informed of the menu and food prices 
to answer customers' questions. 

And finally, an attendant should check the completeness of the guest's 
self-service to see that he has, for ey.ample: 

Crackers with souo 

Cream with coffee 

Lemon or cream, with tea 

Dressing with salad 

All the items of combination meals ^ 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



Institutional Feedinq Managers 
kity Stewards-Chefs- Cook s 



ATTMTIOU PHASE ! 



Vol. 3 Mo. 3 



January 15, 1945 



IH? AND MEAT ALTERNATES 




Meat extender dishes come back into their own with the recent change 
in meat rationing. Macaroni, spaghetti, noodles and rice, all good 
meat extenders, are mong this month's foods in abundant supply. There 
are, however, important factors to be considered when those foods are 
used as the main dish in the worker's meal. 

V7hat about protein content? . ' . . 

A serving of plain macaroni, spaghetti, rice or noodles contains a small 
amount of protein, but not nearly enough to contribute one-third of the 
daily requirement. Therefore, they should be combined with meat, poultry, 
fish, eggs, or cheese, in order to furnish enough protein for an adequate 
meal. Portions should be not less than six ounces. 

These paste dishes that contain neither meat nor a meat alternate, such 
as spaghetti with tomato sauce or scalloped noodles'; with vegetables, may 
be served to accompany meat but should not be used as meat substitutes . 

What about -flavor, color, texture? 

The food : -manager who knows his public's taste will carefully combine a 
macaroni, spaghetti, or noodle meal with foods strong in flavor, vivid 
in color, and different in texture. Tomatoes, green peppers, pimientos, 
meats and cheese are flavorful additions. Crisp, green salads, add an 
excellent contrast to the soft-textured paste products. Fruit salads, 
carrot sticks, and sliced tomatoes all add flavor, color and texture. 

Good and Bad combinations - 

It is simple to plan an appetizing, nutritious menu, but too often an 
unappetizing combination appears on the menu. board with a main dish of 
macaroni, spaghetti, or noodles. 



I "M 



(Over) 

WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF DISTRIBUTION 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3» California 

Telephone Exbrook 838l-Ex,l+7 



Page 2 - 



Here's a typical example of a poor menu: 



Macaroni and cheese 
Mashed potatoes 
Creamed onions 

Whole-wheat bread and butter or fortified margarine 

Coconut cream pudding 

Beverage 



All these foods are soft in texture, bland in flavor, colorless. There 
is no "eye appeal" to attract the customer and make him think "that looks 
good". With a few changes, this meal can be transformed to a gourmet's 
delight: 



This menu is colorful. It provides piquant flavor as well as crisp tex- 
ture in the tossed green salad and the tart dessert.. It is more nutri- 
tious than the first menu because the . vegetables provide a more liberal 
allowance of Vitamin A and Vitamin C, and because the milk supplies cal- 
cium, high" quality protein, and riboflavin. 

When brown rice is substituted for white, polished rice, it supplies. a 
greater amount of the B complex vitamins and is, therefore, of greater 
value in the diet. 

Other suggestion's for combinations - '.■'„.. 

These suggestions for main-course combinations when macaroni, spaghetti, 
or noodle dishes are' the main dish of the meal have been planned with an 
eye to texture, color and flavor: 

Creole macaroni with meat, buttered green peas, fresh fruit salad,! ■ • 
Macaroni with tomatoes and bacon, buttered broccoli, raw carrot, strips. 
Spaghetti with cheese, baked Hubbard squash, ■ . cabbage • slaw. 

Italian, spaghetti with meat' balls, buttered spinach, apple and orange salad. 
Scalloped' noodles with chicken, buttered green beans, cabbage and carrot , s alar' 
Scalloped noodles with eggs and cheese, buttered kale, tomato and endive salac 



Macaroni and Cheese 
Buttered Carrot Strips 
Tossed Green Salad 



Whole-Wheat Rolls and Butter or 

fortified margarine 
Cherry Pie 



Milk 




Recipes which follow are given for two meat extender dishes and one meat- 
alternate dish. 





Creole 


Macaroni with Meat 












Ingredients 


100 


portions 


500 portions 


Macaroni, cut 


6 


lbs. 


30 lbs. ; 


Boiling water 


6 


gallons 


2$ gallons 


Salt 


3 


ounces 


12 ounces 


Canned tomatoes 


2 


gallons 


10 gallons 


Onion, chopped 


1 


pound 


5 pounds , 


Green peppers, chopped 


12 


ounces 


3-1/2 lbs. 


Bacon fat 


1 


pound 


5 pounds 


Ground beef and pork 
Chili powder 


6 pounds 
l/2 ounce 


30 pounds 
2-1/2 ounces 



Size of portion - 6 ounces 

1. Cook the macaroni in boiling, salted water until tender. Drain. 

2. Cook the onions and peppers in the bacon fat, for 5 minutes. 
Add the meat and brown. 

3. Combine the meat, tomatoes, and spaghetti. 

4. Pour into greased baking pans and bake at a moderate heat (350°F) for 
45 minutes. 



Ba 


Iced Spaghetti with Pork 




Ingredients 


1-00' Portions 


500 portions 


Spaghetti, broken 


6 pounds 


30 pounds 


Boiling water 


'■■ 6 gallons 


25 gallons 


Salt 


3 ounces 


12' ounces . 


Onions, chopped 


1 pound ■ " 


■ - ■ $ pounds ": 


Carrots, Chopped. 


5 pounds 


25 pounds 


Celery stalks and 


2 pounds 


10 pounds 


lea yes, diced. 






Green peppers, chopped 


1 pound 


5 pounds 


Pork shoulder, cut in 1/2 


in. cubes lOpounds 


$0 pounds 


Bacon drippings 


1 pound 


5- pounds 


Paprika 


1/2 ounce 


2-1/2 oz. 



Size of portion - 6" ounces 

1. Cook the spaghetti in boiling, salted water until tender f Drain. 

2. Steam the chopped carrots, celery, and peppers until just tender. 

3. Cook the onion and pork in the fat until lightly browned. 

4. Combine the vegetables, spaghetti, and meat; season with paprika. 

5. Put into greased baking pans and cook at a moderate temperature (325°F) 
for about 1-1/2 hours or until the meat is tender. 

(over) 



Page A - 



Scalloped Noodles, Eggs and Cheese 



Ingredients 



100 Portions 



500 Portions 



Noodles, dry 
Boiling water 
Salt 

Cheese, Cheddar, ground 

Paprika 

Milk 

Fat 

Salt 

Hard cooked eggs 
Flour 

Size of portion - 6 ounces 



6 pounds 
5 gallons 

2 ounces 

3 pounds 
1/2 ounce 

2 gallons 

1-1/2 pounds 

l/2 ounce 

50 
1 pound 



30 pounds 

25 gallons 

10 ounces , •' 

15 pounds 

2-1/2 ounces 

10 gallons 

7-1/2 pounds 

2-1/2 ounces 

250 

5 pounds . 



1. Cook the noodles in boiling, salted water until tender. Drain. 

2. Make a sauce of the fat, flour, salt, and milk. 

3. Add the ground cheese and paprika to the hot sauce and. stir until mixed, 
A. Slice the eggs crosswise. 

5, Put alternate layers of noodles, cheese, sauce, and eggs in greased 
baking pans. Top with cheese sauce. 

6. Bake at a moderate temperature (350°F.) for U5 minutes or until well • 
heated and lightly browned. 

■ Rice Crocuettes 



Ingredients 



100 Portions 



500 Portions 



Rice 
Milk' 

Water (approx.) 
Salt 

Eggs, beaten 

Butter or substitute 



/+-1/2 pounds 
6 quarts 
3 gallons 
U ounces 
32 

K ounces 



22-1/2 pounds 
37 quarts 

'12 gallons 
20 ounces 

150 

19 ounces 



Cook rice in salted milk and water mixture until tender. Add beaten eggs 
and butter or substitute and cook until eggs are done. Measure with a 
Mo, 12 dipper. Let cool 2 hours. Shape. Dip in egg and crumb. Fry ap- 
proximately 3 to h min. 365°F. Serve with cheese sauce or apricot sauce. 



E gg and crumb - 

Milk 
F b gs 

Bread Crumbs 



2 cups 
6 

1-1/2 pounds 



9 cups 
30 

7-1/2 pounds 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices 



Institutional Feedinq Manaqers 



^1 



Stewards-Chefs-Cooks 



ATTMTM PUAS£ / 



Vol. 3 No. 6 



Februarjr 5, 1945. 
IIEAT STRETCHER MENUS AMD RECIPES 



Many industrial plants are simplifying their menus. They are turning 
from a long a la carte menu to a victory lunch with no more than two, 
or possibly three, choices of entree. And because of this they are 
finding it possible to have a greater day to day variety on their menu.. 
As a result there is less complaint of monotony from the workers. It 
is also possible to serve more people in less time. Below are some sug- 
gested menu patterns and meat extender recipes: 



Chicken Rice Soup 
Salmon Loaf - Egg Sciuce 
or 

Vegetable & Meat Pie Biscuit Topping 
Boiled Navy Beans 
Tossed. Green Salad 
Dark or Enriched Bread or Rolls 
Fruit Cobbler 
Milk Coffee 



Minnestrome Soup 
Lamb and Beef Patties 

or 

Eggs a la King on Rice 
Baked Potato 
■ Braised Celery & Carrots 
Lettuce & Choice of Dressing 
Dark or Enriched Bread or Rol* 

Chocolate Cake Squares 
Milk Coffee 



Scotch Broth ' . 

Baked Lima Beans with Salt Pork 
or 

Creamed Codfish with Potato on Toast 
Harvard Beets 
Carrot and Raisin Salad 
Dark Enriched Bread or Rolls 
Jello 

Milk Coffee 



Split Pea Soup 
Meatless Meat Loaf 
. ■ or !<£. 

Browned Liver and Onions 
Mashed Potatoes 
Mixed Veg et able s ( carrots , beans , 
corn) Cole 'slaw 
Dark or Enriched Bread or Rolls 
Grapenuts Custard 
Milk Coffee 



(over) 

WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF DISTRIBUTION 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3, California 

Telephone Exbrook 8381-Ex,li7 



Page 2 - 



MEATLESS MEAT LOAF 



Servin g s for 



■ , 


20 


50 




300 


Fat or cooking oil 


4-1/2 oz. 


11 oz. 


1 lb. 


6 oz 


Celery 


10 oz. 


1-3/4 lbs. 


3-1/2 


lbs. 


Onions 


±2 oz. 


2 lbs. 


3-3/4 


lbs . 


Commercial Meat stock concentrate 


1-1/2 oz. 


3-3/4 oz. 


/-1/2 


oz , 


Walnut, s 


JL<c OZ . 


<c J.DS . 


3-3/ 4 


IDS « 


Freshly cooked potatoes 


12 oz. 


2 lbs. 


3-3/4 


lbs. 


Bread Crumbs 


3 oz. 


1/2 lbs. 


1 


lb. 


Whole Wheat Flour 


9 oz. 


1 lb. 6 oz. 


2-3/4 


lbs. 


Salt 


3/4 oz . 


2 oz. 


3-3/4 


oz. 


Pepper 


1/4 tsp. . 


* 1/2- tsp. 


1-1/4 


tsp. 


Thyme 


1/4 tsp. 


* 1/2 tsp. 


1-1/4 


tsp. 




6 


15 


30 




Special meat stock sauce 


1-1/4 qts. 









Chop celery, onions and walnuts in food chopper, keeping walnuts separate. 
Rub cooked potatoes through a strainer while hot. Melt shortening in sauce- 
pan; add celery and onions and cover saute from 10 to 15 minutes until ten- 
der; do not allow to brown. Remove from fire and add meatstock concentrate, 
walnuts, potatoes, bread crumbs, flour, seasoning and slightly beaten eggs 
and mix thoroughly. 

Place in well greased and floured rectangular baking pans and bake jn moder- 
ate oven for about one-half hour. Remove from pan and cut across loaf into 
slices weighing one and one-half ounces each. Serve two slices.. 

■ *• plus 

SPECIAL TEAT STOCK SAUCE 



Servings for 





20 


50 


100 


Celery Chopped fine 


3 oz. 


7 oz. 


14 oz. 


Onion chopped fine 


3 oz. 


7 oz. 


14 oz. 


Shortening 


3 oz. 


7 os. 


14 oz. 


Flour 


2 oz. 


5-1/2 oz. 


11 oz. 


Hot Water 


1 qt. 


2-1/2 qts. 


5 qts. 


Meat stock concentrate 


3/4 oz. 


2 oz. 


4 oz. 


Salt 


2 tsp. 


4-1/2 tsp. . 


3 tbsp. 


Pepper 


1/2 tsp. 


1 tsp. 


2 tsp. 


Thyme 


3/4 tsp. 


1-3/4 tsp. .. 


1 tbsp. 



Make as for- cream sauce adding stock concentrate. Cook well and' strain. 

L I B R A R Y 

CURRENT SEKIAL RECORD 

JUN 14 1945 



U.S. DEPAKIML"! Of AGrflOULTURE 

■ 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



Institutional Feedinq Manaqers 
ry-rj"7 Stewards-Chefs-Cooks 



Vol. 3 No, 10 March 5, 19A5 

FEATURING, T HE VICTORY UJNCH FOR BETTER NUTRITtON 
■ • » I ' ■ ... 1. 

In most industrial cafeterias qne or more of the following types of s^«rvice 
are available and the nutritional value of the meals can be determined some- 
what by the type: 

Service Nutritive Value 

Victory Lunch pood 

A la Carte May or may not be good 

Sgack Bar Doubtful 

Some cafeterias may omit the Victory Lunch and some jiay omit the snack bar 
but practically all have an a la carte line. 



Evaluating these three for good nutrition, we can award an "E" to the Victory 
Lunch, The employees who select this line will find a "ready-made meal" com- 
plete with meat or alternate, potato, vegetable, beverage, bread, and dessert. 
It is educational because it teaches them what a balanced meal consists of, 
and it will undoubtedly introduce new foods into their diet. 

It has been found that the same people take the Victory Lunch day after day. 
There may be several reasons for this: 

1, They are in a hurry and the "Victory" is more or less 
of a speed line. 

2. They realize they are getting a "good buy" as the same 
variety in the a la carte line would cost more. 

3* They want a balanced meal and are willing to have a 
trained person plan it for them. 

4. Habit. They started taking the "Victory Special", 
found it good, and have continued. 

5. They have found that the new foods they've been intro- 
duced to are "not at all bad" and realize they had 
formerly been missing a lot by limiting their diet. 



The manager who checks the waste finds very little left on the plates, and 
that is another and also valid reason for instituting a Victory Lunch Service. 
WAfi FOOD ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF DISTRIBUTION 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3, Cai§YS?jLia 

Telephone Exbrook 838l-Ex,i4.7 



Page 2 - 

The a la carte line may or m&y not represent good meals. We find that men, 
more than women, are apt to select good meals. This means that cafeterias 
catering largely to women, are more in need of a '»Victory" lunch than those 
where men predooinate. All of the items that go to make up a good meal are 
included on an a la carte line but many hasten past certain foods that would 
give stamina to their diet and pick out foods that have little "staying" 
quality. If the selection is poor day after day they may wonder why they 
tire so easily. Your perfect menu on the counter is of little purpose if 
the workers do not choose wisely. So in your place in the great enterprise 
of industrial feeding, you can do much to keep America on the job by guiding 
your patrons to well planned meals — the Victory Lunch type of service. 



PRAISED LIVER 



Scrvii^gs 


20 


50 


100 


Liver 


8 lbs. 


20 lb. 


UO lbs. 


Fat Salt Pork 


Q 02. 


1-lA lbs. 


2-1/2 lbs. 


Carrots diced 


1-lA lbs. 


3 lbs. . 


6 lbs. 


Onions diced 


l~lA lbs. 


3 lbs. 


6 lbs. 


Celery diced 


1-1/-^^ lbs. 


3 lbs. 


6 lbs. 


Peppercorns 


2 tsp. 


3 tbsp. 


6 tbsp. 


Cloves 


1/2 tsp. 


1 tbsp. 


2 


Bay leaves 


1 


3 


6 


Water 


13 cups 


2 gals . 


U 


Butter (or margarine) 


6 oz. 


1 lb. 


2 


Flour 


U oz. 


10 oz. 


1-1/4 lbs. 



Wipe the liver vdth a clean, damp cloth. Remove outside skin and veins 
and parboil 20 minutes. Lard upper side with salt porkj put in deep pan 
with trimmings from lardoons; then add the remaining ingredients except 
flour and butter; cover closely and bake two hours in a slow oven, uncover- 
ing the last twenty minutes. Remove from pan, strain liquor, and thicken 
with the flour and shortening browned together. Slice liver and pour gravy 
over it immediately before serving. 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



I 

I 



tnstitutional Feedinq Manaqers 
Sfewards-Chefs-Cooks fl^ 



Vol. 3. No. 20 



CHEF'S SAUa 




The Salad Department is one . of the most pro'fitable in any.ifeeding operation, andgj 
as such the sales appeal of products prepared in this department is al^vaj^^s good)(9%kAj 
business,' Th« popularity and acceptance of salads by customers is -extremely im- a J 
portant, for specifically, salad "greens", the yellov./ vegetables,' the green vege-^r 
tables, tomatoes, and citrus fruits contain food values that are basic to a good 
c?.isposition, 'to good digestion and to the vjorking efficiency of all plant xMorkers. 

A profitable salad department merchandises its products through FRESHNESS of ap- 
pearance-. The main problem of the head of the Salad Dc \' rtr-.cnt is tre scheduling 
of production to achieve- this end^ ^7ith thousands of v>;orkers eating Yjithin a 
short space of time, FRESKI'IESS is sometimtes sacrificed to the production schedule. 

This issue deals especially'- with improving the FRESHMESS of one of the most popu- 
lar items in the Salad Department Chef','; Sai.id. For the peak of freshness for 
this salad, use the follc/ving procedure? 

1, Prepare and crisp greens by placing in cold water. 

2. Prepare other ingredients but leave in separate containers,- Juliene 
carrots in one, green pepper strips in another, etc*.. ... 

,3* Toss greens tot;ether lightly vdth oil and vinegar JUST BEFORE SSRVTNC- 
to prevent wilting. 

k* AsserLble salad hj spreading greens in pans to be used at point of service. 
Spread layer of other ingredients, then add layer of greens, alternating 
vjith greens and other vegetables. 

VTiere salads are prepared. in a central kitchen for service in decentralized sta- 
tionary units of service, ingredients may be sent separately, and assembled in 
the decentralized unit of food service. For mobile units, they will be assembled 
in the central kitchen for distribution. 

Oil and vinegar, when added to the greens to long before serving, "date" the sal- 
ad, and detract from tlie- crisp, fresh appearance. If added too far in advance 
of service, the wiltiiU' of greens is o_uite pronounced, ''■.''hen there are a n'omber 
of staggered releases, FRF^HNSSS can be assured by also staggering the assemibling 
of the salad for each release. 

I'any feeding, managers have f oimd that leaving oil and vinegar off the salad, and 
allowing the customer to add his ovm, often gives better acceptance, and helns 
the salad stand up better during service* The dressin-j may be made^ available at 
the condiment table or at the salad counter, whenever this is feasible. 

(over) 

WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION-OFFICE OP SDPPLT-CCC 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street Son Francisco, 3, California 

Telephone Exbrook 838l-Ex,(\^ 



Page 2 - 



Plate lunches can successfully include this salad. It combines vjell vjith 
starchy . entrees lacking crispness in texture, such as beans, spaghetti, .Tiac- 
aroni, as veil as egg entrees. , ...... ' . ..• , 

. >'ohef 's. Salad can be .varied ^'j'om tirae to time, according to vegetables on hand 
,. and "r-riarket, , f. ■•rices . At present, , lettuce_ and tojnato' supplies -are light and sell- 
•riiig.r.at ceiling price.. The folloyjing^ list sugg est s'- ■srliefnates that may be used 

r---«t'0 . meet this , condition; • .' ' . . '.'.'.'.i.- l.;,'^ ■.• , .,; 



(Basjo-. Rmi Greens ) 



(Uoe .one. or more 01 these) 



^Chicbry , 
' Escarole,' 

'O-r'een Cabbage 

Spinach 
••fied, Cabbage . 

Head Lettuce 

Leaf Lettuce 



' '(Rot 'Vegetables and- Garnishes ) 
(Use tv.'o or three of these) 

Green Peppers-thinl^r sliced strii 
Carrots - Julienne. 
Tul-nips - Julienne,. ■.. 
,Toj:iiatoes-Diced or thin quarters 
Caulif lovier-thin slices or small flo;'?- 
' , ■ ■ _ • "--^ ■ ■ • erettes 

■ ■' Cucumbers" ^- thin slices or diced 
. Celery. - sliced crpss\;ise 
; Radishes, - .sliped . ' 

..Tops of ,gre en ..onions-chopped 
; ; • . ; ■ Onions -ring 

Watercressr.sprigs . . 



■>i->c~,^r-ir 



■ ■ 1 1 n, / z A h p H I; s x\ ■;■ 

I, ' 

" ' . ' "S-fiVIIlG SUGAR IN IMDl^STPIAL FEEDING " 

is ,iust off the press. 

Fill out and return this form if you vdsh a copy. 
Co...^-an:,■ name 



AUention of ^_ Title_ 

Address 



Your Name) 



Send this form to: 

":AR food ADI'INISTRATIOH-OFFICE of SUPPLY-COIIl'ODITY CPiXaT CORPORATION 

Industrial Feeding Section 
821 Larket Street-Rm 700--San Francisco, 3, California 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 




Institutional Feedinq Manaqers 
71f Stewards-Cnefs-Cooks 



Vol. 3 Mo. 12 



March 19, 19A5 



ORCH FOOD STORY 



PLENTIFITL FOODS 



Fresh fruits and vegetables which are. 
expected to be in plentiful supply in most 
17e stern narkets during the month of I 'arch • 
are: ORANGES, CAULIFLO'^R, SPINACH, and 
other GREEN VEGETABLES, RADISHES, RUTABAGAS, 
CABBAGE and CARROTS. 



Other foods which will be available and 
adequate include EGGS, DRY PINTO BEANS, DRY 
1 ¥1X SOUPS, SOYA FLOUR, GRIT^S and FLAf'ES; 
j CITRUS rARl'ALADE, APPLE BUTTER, JELLIES, and 
i GRAPE, PLUM and FIG JAKS; rJKEAT FLOUR and 
: BREAD; imCARONI, SPAGHETTI, NOODLES and OATl^^EAL. 



This year's crop of cabbage in Florida, Texas, Arizona and California, 
is more than half again as large as it has been on the average for the past 
ten years.,. 56^ above average, - in case you're interested in figures. 

That's a good bit of cabbage, - so much, that the War Food Administra- 
tion is attempting to divert quantities to the manufacture of sauerkraut. 

-''-Cabbage is versatile. You can fit it into any course but dessert. 
Chopped with a t^art dressing, it makes a' splendid accompaniment for fish. 

(over) 



WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF DISTRIBUTION 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3> California 

Telephone Exbrook 838l-Ex,l+7 



Page 2 - 



Cabbage is a member of the important green and yellow vegetable 
group in the Basic Seven. 

Cabbage is a good source of vitamin C, Over one-half of the vita- 
min C requirement for the day is contained in one rai/v serving and about 
one-third in a serving, if properly cooked. 

-"■Cauliflower is not as versatile as some other vegetables but variety 
may be obtained by serving it French Fried, Sautid or with browned crumbs 
as well as with a cheese and tomato sauce. 

^^Carrots rank with spinach, kale, and sweet potatoes as "tops" among 
all vegetables in vitamin A content and contribute about 11^ of vitamin A 
in civilian diet. 

The daily dietary requirement of vitamin A is abundantly filled by 
one serving of properly prepared carrots. 

Raw carrot sticks, served crisp, are a good variation and have been 
successfully used in many industrial plants and restaurants. 

For variety try serving carrots lyonnaise, browned or sweet-sour. 

■'"■Spinach may also be served with a sweet-sour dressing . 

•^'•Rutabagas, mashed with potatoes, are delicious and are liked by 
many who refuse rutabagas prepared in the usual way. 



For the many readers of "ATTENTION, PLEASEl" who sent in for the booklet, 
"MAKirJG THE I.!OST OF I'F.iTS IN INDUSTRIAL FEEDING", SPECIaL NOTE: 



THIS PUBLICATION Vf-.S IN PRESS ^■.'HEN THE OFFICE OF 
PRICE ADHINISTR:;TION CR'.NGED RATION POINT VALUES ' 
ON- JANUARY 1, 19A5. , THEREFORE, REFERENCES TO POIOT 
VALUES OF CERTAIN I'^IATS APPEARING ON PAGE 3 .SHOULD 
BE INTERPRETED IN TEPJ'S OF CURRENT R/iTION POINT VALUES .1 ^ 



Li-- 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



Institutional Feedinq Manaqei 

I H 7 St e wa r d s - C h e f s - voo|cj^*.r.«^^,^ 



3 



W.45 



Vol. 3 No. 27 



July 2, 19A5 



PTOD SELECTION CA:TAIQN 



This issue is for the particular attention of Plant Ifenageraent, Industrial 
Feeding Contractors or Concessionaires, and Directors of Employee Coopera- 
tive Cafeterias. 

At youi- request, \'ve have had the opportunity to rjork v/ith many of you on 
problems regarding Facilities, Daily Operational Cost Controls, and Food 
Pre'^aration and Service Standards. 

To realize the maximum benefits from an in-plant food service, maximum ac- 
ceptance must be obtained. 

An outline has been prepared for a caiiipaign to popularize your food service. 
The material presented has been used by a namber of plants. It has proved 
successful in securing increased patronage for in-plant feeding services. 

This pamphlet. Food Selection Garanaign , is for Plant i cn.agement, Industrial 
Feeding Contractors and En\ployee Coopervative Cafeterias. It vjill be off the 
press about July 7. Use the coupon belovi to secure your free copy. 



FOOD SELECTION CAITAIGN 



Company Mame 



Attention of Title_ 

Your l\!:tme 

Address 



Street City and State 

There are about people on the average viho daily use our in-plant 

feeding services. 

Send this Form to: 



WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION-OFFICE OF SOPPLI-COC 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street Seui Francisco, 3> California 

Telephone Exbrook 838l-Ex,4t 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 




SERVING MANY 



A R Y 



Food news for food managers in jindustr ial 
plants, restaurants, hotels, an(^| bos Mttialw ^TiOfi 



WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION 
Commodity Credit Corporation 
Office of Supply 



Vol. 3, IIo. 30 



July 30,19A5 



EFFIGISI'T DI3K?/*ISHING 



Clean sparkling glasses, spotleB- silver, and olean dishes are 
the result of much t.hon ht. and attention ^^iven by the manager of 
every food service to the dishwashing operation. Periouic in- 
spection by tiie nanatter previous to serving time, of silver 
placed on the serving lines and glasses at drinking fountains 
gives a clue as to the efficiency of th^- dishwashing department. 
Following are listed soma of t}\e many factors that enter into 
successful dish^'^aahing: 



1. The temperature of th;^ wash "'ater should be 
approximat^vly 14.0'-F (hut not higher, because 
food particles T;ould then be cooked onto the 
utensils), and in no case less than 120^F 
(because then fat;: are not enulsified) . Where 
hot \?nter is supplied to the kitchen is above 
these t€np3r^;tur^^';, a cold vater connection on 
the hot vash crater line should be installed to 
enable lowerin:^ the temperature of the v;a5h 
watp.r to that desired as stated above. 

2. ThH temperaturt. of the rinse v.T.ter should be not 
less thar 170^''F. A stcan booster on thf rinse 
^atcr line is nf.cossary in order to provide 
water of th'j proper tei-per-^ture (at least 170°F) 
for rinsing tht. dishes. 

3. Proacjaking of dishes may be accomplished by use 
of small hose near the scraping section, or by 
pouring vat.-'r ovor stacked dishes. 



(over) 

"Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street, San Francisco 3, California" 



The VBiSh and rins3 sprays must be cleaned 
daily, or oftoner wheru heavy loads are 
carrier. Removal of all bits of food 
lodged in sprays v:±ll provide a forceful 
spray of -vater. 

The rash tcuit: water must be changed often 
di-irlrig operation in order to ksep it reason- 
ably clean. This may be necessary each nr.e 
or tvra hours of operation. The slight delay 
in chanfjing the Fash vrator can be made up 
easily, slno^. half shed cliches t7ill not 
then have to be sent through the machine a 
second time. 

The disawaahing schedule must be. arranged so 
that glassware is put throu^^h the machino be- 
fore the Trash v/at ..r bwcomas soiled from the 
washing of dishes, •iv'hen this is done, glasse 
arc sparkling cl<..un, and of coiarse art-, not 
1 0^:70 lod . 

Silver should be pre- soaked, and. the dish- 
vrashing rucks shcuid. only be filled about l/3 
.fu.ll. Glean rash vr^itor is also essential for 
spotl..s3 silver. 

A good detergent in the machine must be used, 
the qur:.ntity dt.pfrndent upon the recommenda- 
tion 01' the manuf^'cturer. Autom'-.tic dotcr- 
gent •■'isponsers i.re in some crises installed 
by m-aiufacturcrs, to maintain the- proper con- 
centrutior. of detorgent in the wash tank 
thrcufThout the disht7ashing period, 

IfVaero the dishv-ashin--; m-;chine is ecuipped 
with conv'-.'yor bel:, turn off the nuchino 
when IV ^ks arc not goin^;' thron.gh. This 
saves Tear and te .r on th.-; conveyor belt, 
and prevents tiic- dilution of the detergent 
in the TCnsh t::ni'.. 

■'.'hen china acouircs a brovvn film (pnrtic- 
uliirly on the bottom side) ^nd contains 
metal m-^rks, a china dipping conipound, avail- 
able from mo.'tt 'vyholes'.ler.?, is recomnir-nded-. 

Dish racks must be repaired vvhen ao-rlings are 
broken in order thi't dishes mny be properly 
r"ckeu for washing. 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



Institutional Feedinq Manaqers 



You are automatically serving enriched white bread and rolls in your food 
service if these are purchased from a comnercial baket'y. Hovjever, you are not 
serving enriched products in your food service if these are prepared in your 
ovm bakeshop, unless you have taken steps to do so. This is done through either 
(1) the purchase of enriched flour, or (2) through the use of enrichment wafers 
or concentrates vjhich are added during preparation to unenriched flour.. Which- 
ever method is feasible in your area, the enrichment of white flour is recojwnended. 

The serving of enriched vjhite flour products in your food service is one of 
the basic improvements vjhich you can make to the diets of those you serve. By 
GoveiTYiment order it is mandatory that all white bread made by commercial bakeries, 
effective January 18, 19A3, and all white rolls made by coraraercial bakeries, ef- 
fective May 1, 194A, be enriched. 

The enrichment of white flour used by restaurants and institutions is at the 
present tL'ae voluntary in your state, but it is, nonetheless, recommended, as it 
entitles you to state that you are serving enriched white bread and enriched white 
flour in your food service in accordance with Government nutrition recommendations. 

Formerly, white bread and white flour products were not in high favor. Howcver 
enriched white bread and enriched white flour are BASIC SEVEN FOODS in contrast to 
the unenriched products . 

Enrichment is a term used to denote the addition of two B- Vitamins (Thi.inine) 
and Niacin) and one mineral (xron) to white bread and flour, in accordance with 
standards established by the Federal Food and Druf^ Acministration, Adnition of 
these substances restores vjhite bread and flour to approximately the level of 
whole wheat as to these three substances. 

Tany food services are also using enriched doughnut flour. Since doughnuts 
are popular brealcfast items and reach large numbers of workers, we suggest that 
wherever the supplier can offer you this enriched product, that you so specify 
in your purchases. 



WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION-OFFICE Of SUPPLT-CC3C 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3, California 

Telephone Exbrook 838l-Ex^v4 




Vol. 3 



No. 21 



May 21, 19A5 



ENRICHED PRODUCTS 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



Institutional Feedinq Manaqers 



Stewards-Chefs-Cooks 



Vol. 3 No. 15 



THE PLATE LUNCH FCR CAFETERIA SERVICE 



April 9, 1945 



Beginning with this i&s^~l^^fiW^ wTLT be presented about - 
the second week of each month for Luncheon Specials for indus- 
trial workers. These menus are planned to provide about one- 
third of the day's recommended dietary allowance for a moder- 
ately active man. The menus, featuring foods in abundant supply, 
are planned to utilize the available ration point allowance per 
meal. The food combinations are selected so that the meals can 
be sold at a moderate price , 



Th e Menu Pattern 

Menus for the luncheon special have been planned to include a protein-rich main 
dish, potatoes or cereal products like noodles or rice, a green or yellow vege- 
table or a salad, or a red or white vegetable with a fresh fruit or vegetable 
salad or relish, bread with butter or margarine fortified with vitamin A, a 
dessert, and milk. 

Size of Portions 

It is important that the size of the food portions should be adequate to provide 
at least 1,000. calories and one-third of the dajr's nutritive requirements. There- 
fore, food served on the luncheon special should be apportioned as follows: 

K ind of Food Quantity 

Roasted Meats 3 to 3-1/2 ounces, cooked weight 

Braised and fried meats. 4 ounces or more, cooked weight 

Fish 4 ounces or more, cooked weight 

Eggs 1 or more 

Meat extender dishes 6 oz.- or more if gravy or sauce included 

Meat alternate dishes t ... 6 to 8 ounces 

Potatoes 4 ounces 

Cooked vegetables 3-1/2 to 4 oz. (about 1/2 cup) 

Chopped and diced salads 4 oz. (about 1/2 cup) 

B rea d 2 slices or more 

Puddings 4 oa. (about 1/2 cup) 

Pies 1/6 or 1/7 of 9-inch pie 

Cake ,. 2-inch square, or the equivalent 

Milk , 3 ounces ' 

(over) 



WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF DISTRIBUTION 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, J, California 

Telephone Exbrook 8381-Ex,i;7 



Page 2 - 



Fitting; the Luncheon Sp ecial Into the Cafeteri a Menu 

The Luncheon Special can be fitted readily into the regular cafeteria menu, 
as for example: 



A p petizers a nd Sou p 
Tomato juice 
Scotch broth and barley 

Entrees 

Roast Lamb 
-»-Meat pie 
Baked beans (Pintos) 

V egetables 

Hashed potatoes 
-"-Steamed nevj potatoes 
-"-Creole cabbage 

Green peas 

Carrot strips 



Salads 

Tossed vegetable salad 

Jellied fruit salad 

Head lettuce salad 
Desserts 

-"-Soft custard with sliced oranges 
Baked custard 
Chocolate cake " " 

Fresh apple pie 

Be verages 
Coffee 
Tea 



"-The starred items on the regular menu are combined into the Luncheon Special 
as follows: 

Meat pie with carrots and onions 
Steamed new potatoes 
Creole cabbage 

Whole-wheat rolls with butter or fortified margarine 

Soft custard with sliced oranges 

Miik 

Us ing Abundant Foods 

The menus given this month feature three foods in abundant supply-cabbage, 
carrots, and oranges, Cabbage and carrots lend themselves to many uses, both 
as cooked vegetables and in salads. Oranges not only give a zestful flavor 
and an attractive color to a meal but contribute vitamin C which is often 
present in too small amounts in workers' diets. 

Menus for the Luncheon Special 



1. Meat pie with carrots and onions 1/ 
Steamed new potatoes 
Creo] e- cabbage 

Whole whe it rolls with butter 

or fortified margarine 
Soft custard with diced oranges 
Mill- 



Spanish 'Omelet 

Baked potato ■ • 

Green beans 

Enriched bread with butter or 

•fortified margarine 
Frosted cup cake 
Milk 



3. Braised Lamb Breast 
Mashed potatoes 
Spinach or other greens 
Pickled beets 

Whole-wheat bread with butter or 

fortified margarine 
Deep-dish cherry pie' 



4. Baked -beans with salt pork 

Browned parsnips • * 

Shredded cabbage and carrot sala< 
Brown bread with butter or for- 
tified margarine 
Aplle Betty 
Milk 



1/ Recipe on page 14 of "Making the Most of Meats in Industrial Feeding". For 
a copy, write the Regional Office of the We*r Fvod Administration, Industrial 
Feeding Section, Room 700, 821 Market Street, San Francisco, 3, California. 



Baked fish fillets with lemon sauce 

Parsieyed potatoes 

Broccoli 

Enriched rolls w. butter or fortified 

, .- : margarine 
'"am Gingerbread topped with apple butter 
Milk 

Lamb fricassee 
Steamed rice 
G-reen peas 

Head lettuce w. Thousand Island Dr. 
Enriched baking powder biscuits w. 

butter or fortified margarine 
Chocolate ice cream 
Milk 



Baked Hash 

Ovenbrowned potatoes, gravy 

Glazed carrots 

Enriched bread w. butter or 

fortif j.ed margarine 
Sliced oranges w. shredded 

coconut 

Milk 

Braised liver 
Scalloped potatoes 
Lettuce and tomato salad 
Whole T 7heat bread with buttei 

or fortified margarine 
Plain cake w. orange filling 
Milk 



Hungarian goulash with noodles 10, 
.Green beans 

Gc.boage and green pepper salad 
Enriched bread w. butter or fortified 

margarine 
Baked custard w. maple syrup 
Milk 

Beef tongue with spiced crab-apple 

Parsieyed potatoes 12. 

"Sliced carrots 

Enriched rolls w. butter or forti- 
fied margarine 
Orange rice pudding 
Milk 

Porcupine .meat balls 2/ 

Hashed brown . potatoes H. 
Cooked green cabbage 
Enriched bread with butter or forti- 
fied margarine 
Jellied Fruit 
Milk 



Baked, lima beans a la Creole 

w. bacon 
Buttered broccoli 
Apple, carrot and 'raisin sal* 
Mhole-wheat bread w, butter 

or fortified margarine 
Chocolate pudding 
Milk 

Pan fried fish with lemon 
Creamed new potatoes 
Fresh lima beans 
Corn bread w. butter or for- 
tified margarine 
Blueberry pie 
Milk 

Pot roast of beef w. gravy 
Oven-browned potatoes 
Parsieyed. cauliflower 
Sliced orange salad w. endivo 
Enriched rolls w. butter or 

fortified margarine 
Strawberry ice cream 
Milk 



15. Stuffed flank steak 

M: : shed potatoes 
, ■ ,. .. Green vegetable salad. 

Enriched bread w. butter or 
fortified margarine 

ADplesauce cake 

Milk 



2/ Recipe on page 9 of "Making the Most of Meats in Industrial Feeding" 



(over) 



R E C I P g S 



Creole Cabbage 

Ingredien ts Amou n ts for 100 Portions 

Cabbage, shredded 2U Pounds 
S^.it 4 ounces 

Onions, sliced 2 quarts 

Fat 1 pound 

To- -toes, canned 2 gallons 

Green peppers, chopped S ounces 

Cloves, whole 20 
Bay leaves 8 



Size of portion - 4 ounces 

Cook the shredded cabbage in a small amount of boiling salted water until 
tender. Simmer the sliced onions and chopped peppers in the fat for about 
5 minutes, add to the tomatoes and spices and cook an additional 10 minutes. 
Drain the cabbage, add the tomato sauce and toss lightly together. 



Stuffe d Flank g j c-ak 



Ingredients 

Flank Steak 
Bread crumbs, dry 
Hot water 

Onions, chopped fine 
F^gs 

Poultry seasoning 
Frt 

Flour for dredging 
Salt 



1 



Ai-iounts for 100 Portions 



HVJIfl 'SIR I 



9i76itTNnr 

OHOoay iviaas iN3HBno 
AHVdail 



25 pounds 
A pounds 
3 cups 
6 pounds 

16 
l/U cup 
1 pound 
1 pound 
U ounces 



Size of portion - 3 ounces of meat 
Wipe steak with damp cloth and score. 

Mix bread, water, onions, eggs, and poultry seasoning together. 

Spread stuffing over steak and roll like a jelly roll. Tit- securely. 

Dredge the rolled steaks in the salted flour. 

Sear in hot fat, turning frequently until brown on all sides. 

Place in covered baking pan and cook at 350°F. for 1-1/2 hours or until tender 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



Institutional Feedinq Managers 
Stewards-Chefs-Cooks 



ATT (If T 10* m 



Vol. 3 



£..73 




February 12, 19 4 5 



riAKING THE HOST OF KEATS IK INDUSTRIAL FEEDING 



The industrial feeding manager, as well as the commercial restaurateur, 
is confronted with many problems resulting from an increased patronage 
and a decreased meat supply. Although the rationing of meats gives 
everyone a chance to buy his fair share of meat, it does not always 
provide for a choice of the most popular cuts in the quantities desired. 

Frequently, it is necessary to use meat extenders and alternates. 

IVith the hope of increasing your fund of practical recipes of this type, 
a new 29 page bulletin, "MAKING THE MOST OF MEATS IN INDUSTRIAL FEEDING", 
is now available to you without cost. 

To get it fill out this coupon and send it as directed. 



"MAK ING T HE V.CC? O F ?!3ATS IN IN DU STRIAL FEEDIN G" 
is just off the nress. 
Fill out and return this form if you wish a copy. 

Company name 

Attention of Title 



(Your Name) 



Address 



Send this form to: 



WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF DISTRIBUTION 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3* California 

Telephone Exbrook 838l-Ex,lf7 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



Institutional Feedinq Managers 



Maintaining the demand for plate lionches at a high level contributes to the 
reduction of payroll costs and assists in placing the total operation on a 
profitable basis. 

In general, most industrial feeding operations serve a plate lunch at a 
fixed price including entree, potato, vegetable, and/or salad, dessert and 
choice of beverage.. 

In order to sustain a 'vide interest in the plate lunch among the plant workers 
the folloTjing suggestions have proved practical: 

I. Creating Good TTill - 

The supervising chef, managerial staff and the dietitian can 
create a. great deal of good will among workers, who cannot go to 
the cafeteria, by being present at the plant serving station during 
the lunch period. They should also occasionally eat the plate lunch 
there rather than return to the cafeteria for their meal. The super- 
vising chef should be encouraged to arrange his schedule so that sev- 
eral times each week he observes the food service. This not only points 
up to hifii possible iraprovements in food preparation, but also indicates 
to the vjorker his genuine interest in their welfare, 

II. Food Handling Procedures - 

Checking on food handling procedures is essential to improve the 
quality of food served in the plant such as: 

1. Can holding time of food, from the time it leaves the 
central kitchen and until it reaches the plant customer, 
be reduced? 

2. Is hot food served HOT and cold food served COLD? 

3. Is allowance made for the additional cooking Yjhich will 

(over) 





Vol. 3 No. 17 



April 23, 19U5 



'^M. IMLI LUNCH FO R ^TORKERS 
' SERVED NE,:.R' VrCRK STATIONS 



WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF DISTRIBUTION 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3, California 

Telephone Exbrook 838l-Ex,l+7 



Page 2 - 



take place during holdin,:; of food in insulated containers 
so that the food is the best possible texture and consis- 
tency \ihen it reaches the customer? 

A. Is special care taken to prepare hot vegetables as close to 
loading time as possible, so as to avoid deterioration in 
color and loss of flavor'' Strongly flavored vegetables, 
such as cabbage, caulif lovjer, and turnips are among those 
to Tvatch, especially leafy greens, such as spinach, easily 
mash doi'vn and lose color appeal, 

I. Menu Pl anning - 

1. Does attractive contrast of color appear in the plate lunches? 

2. Are strong aiid mild flavor combinations planned to lend inter- 
est to the plate lunch? 

3. Is at least a ten day rotating menu used to avoid monotony? 

4. Are excellent standardized recipes used in the preparation of 
less popular entrees? A good hambur-ger,meat loaf, or meat ball 
can be sold if your customer has confidence in its trustv;orthiness . 

5. Do you use special treats, (food cost permitting) such as chicken 
and turkey, for special holidays or occasions? Is advance publi- 
city given for such special meals? 

6. Are inexpensive accompaniments used, such as raxv chopped onion 
v\)ith hajTiburgerj tartar sauce with fish; mustard with frankfurters; 
horseradish Kith boiled beef? 

7. Is testing of recipes encouraged? If not, one deoartment to start 
off vdth is the salad department. First, assemble all salads of the 
day, and TASTE them. Perhaps, the cole slavj could be improved vith 
chopped green peppers, or a touch' of white pepper and celery salt; 
the salmon salad may need some lemon' juice to set it off; the Chef's 
salad a touch of garlic used in the dressing. The development of 
standard salad recipes should be encouraged. 



Frequent tasting by the managerial staff, supervising chef and dietitian, 
not only of salads, but of all items, produces e.xtremely worthwhile results. 
After all, it is how the food tastes to the customer that keeps the RlilPEAT 
T^AJ^E coming I 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



Institutional 
rgif Stewards 




inq Manaqers 
Chefs-Cooks 



ATT£MTIOH Pt£AS£ .' 



' :v C ONSERVINC -RATIO N POINTS ■ ..' ' :■ ... 

Budget ing the. Ration Point s - ' ■"■ / . 

"**"'",***!* • . ... t 

The industrial feeding manager' s ability to keep within; his ration allotment \i.s 
affected as much by careful planning as it is by the number of points available 
Even a large number of ration points will not stretch over the rationing period 
if they are spent extravagantly on- high-point meats and fats. If an excessive 
number of ration points is used in the first month of the rationing period, it 
is difficult, even by the most careful planning, to make up the deficit during • 
the . second month . 

Budget your ration points for each period by determining: 

1. The number of ration points available for each month, week, and day 

of the rationing period, ■ ; /■ 

2. The proportion of ration points to be used for each type of rationed; 
foods. For example, meat and fat' points might be recorded in this way: 



Ration Point Distribution Record 



Percentage of 
Total Points 



Number of 
Points ■ 



Meats 

Butter and margarine 
Cooking fats and oils 
Fats for baking 
Cheese 

Evaporated milk 
• Totals 



Similarly, the points required for processed foods may be divided between those 
needed for general cooking and service, and those used for baking. Si^ar may 
also be divided into that required for table use, and that needed for baking. 

Check regularly on the use of ration points to see that you are not exceeding 
your budget allowance, . -K^ke this check daily, if possible, but never less than 
once a week. Thus, excessive spending of points on one day, .or during a week, 
may be corrected by a restricted use of points for the subsequent period, until 
the budget is in balance. Tids method will prevent point indebtedness. (over) 
WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION-OFFICE OF SOPPLT-CQC 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3, California 

Telephone Exbrook 8381-ExU»4 



Page 2 - 

A simple summary form for keeping track of ration point expenditures is given 
below : 



Ration Point Summary 

t 


p ,". Rationing Period 

Today ., ...-T.o Date 


Budget Check 


Rationed Foods AllStment Used Allotment Us.pd ... 


• Qyer : ; • Under. 


#lieats, fats, cheese, etc. .. ; 
Processed foods , . ,.,:■.-.>■■-■• ■ ■• •' • "' . ., 
Sugar ,\v. rttoi;;.* ;"'- : - ,, ; VA ; 'V '.'.'."'.-' • . ; ''' '.*<•' ' '. 

! ! ! , , ii , i , , . . — ! — ; 1*', " i ,._ 1 ! — » 


•■ , t . 4.- (•••"! •* 

.., •. : ,1 - ; ' - 

* . . . * . . w f j* n 


-"■Tids-.it em maybe "subdivided giving, point, use' for -each' kind of 


rationed food. 


Using .Meat Alternates to'Co^serve Meat 



One way to make ration points , go. -further, and -'-t6 ! co'p'e- with shortages in the 
meat supply is to use meat ' alternates frequently. Meat alternates are foods • 
that may be served interQh^ngeablyMwi.thJ-meats- v b-e^attse' they contain essentially 
the same vn'utrientsV" Poultry, fish, eggs, cheese, dry' peas and, beans-, -and- nuts 
are meat alternates that, may be, used, .in' main ' dishes 1 bh" the, menu. • Like. meat, 
they are:. rich' sources'; of protein and, supply B vitamirrs'. 4 

Planning . menus -presents- 'feTraer. difficulties to .the food-manager when meat 'is 
available since many meats suggest 'vegetable accompaniments. For example j, 
baked ham may "call" for sweet potatoes 1 and green beans. ; 

Fewer "natural" combinations are '"suggested to the menu planner , by meatr. alter- 
nates, and, therefore, more thought needs to be used to' plan meals that -will 
be attractive to the eye and appealing to the taste. ' Vegetables. ; .salads-, and 
other accompaniments that complement the main dish in color, f la vor,. , and 'tex- 
ture shoup.d be selected » I'ild-f lavored foods should be combined .with- more \ 
strongly flavored ones, and soft-textured foods with crisp ones. Fried Haddock, 
for example, 'nay-he-s-erved with creamed new potatoes and lettuce and tomato 
salad's The creamed potatoes contrast with the texture -of -the- fried 'fish, and 
the salad ' adds, .color, a tart flavor,' and crispness to the menu.. , u: • Cs « ; - '• • .". 1 

Ser ving Fresh' Vegetables . -. :• • • 

Many fresh vegetables are appearing now in local markets, and as the : growing* 
season advances a larger variety of them will be available. Vegetables '.add 
color and flavor to any meal „ , Cook them .until tender in as little, water and 
for -as short a t'ime as possible and serve them immediately to preserve flavor 
and color., and conserve nutritive value. '", ... . 

Fresh vegetables may be combined attractively in vegetable plates. The occa- 
sional use of a vegetable plate may add welcome variety to the special lunch 
menus, However, vegetables alone do not supply enough prctein to take the 
place of meat, Theref ore, a meat alternate, such as poached or fried eggs, 
egg salad, omelet- cottage cheese, fish salad, or sliced cheese, should be 
served with vegetables. 

Using Food? in Plentiful Supply 

In [.ray. nev, potatoes, carrot's, cabbage, and fresh tomatoes are expected to be 
in plentiful supply. Use them frequently in the menus . EfegS, if available, 
may be used in main dishes to help stretch the limited meat supply, Oranges and 
apples will be available and may be used in salads, desserts, and for between-meal 
snacks . 



Fage 3 - 



Me nus for Special Lunches 



Menus are given for special lunches for a period of 14 days. These menus are 
planned to furnish about one-third of the worker's daily food requirements and to 
come within the limitations of rationing allotments and curtailed food supplies. 
In this month's menus, meat alternates have been featured, as have the fresh vege- 
tables and fruits in supply. 



1. Braised breast of Iamb 
Parsleyed new potatoes 
Buttered carrot strips 
VJhole-wheat bread w .butter/fort .marg . 
Plain cake w. orange frosting 

Milk 

2. Meat loaf w, gravy 
Steamed new potatoes 

Creole cabbage (see April issue) 
rr hole-wheat bread w , butter/fort .marg . 
Chocolate pudding 
BeVerage 

3. Fish cakes with egg sauce 
Creamed new potatoes 
Buttered green beans 

Enriched bread w. butter/fort .marg . 
Peach shortcake 
Liiik 

4. Veal pot pie ■■ 
Mashed potatoes - Buttered peas 
Enriched bread w. butter/fort .marg . 
Fruit gelatine pudding 

Milk 

5. Baked kidney beans (recipe attached) 
Fresh spinach or other greens 
Sliced tomato and lettuce salad 



8. 



Creole lima beans 
Buttered fresh beets and greet 
Cottage cheese & Tomato salad 
Wholer-wheat bread w. butter or 

fort, marg* 
Caramel nut pudding 
Beverage 

Creamed eggs w. fresh asparagu 
(recipe attached 
Bilked Potato - Cole Slaw 
Apple Brown Betty - Milk 



10. 



Steamed Frankfurt hers -Cr 
Creamed new potatoes-Buttered 
Cabbage (or sauerkraut) 
Enriched roll w. butter or fort. marg. 
Rhubarb Pie 
Beverage 

Scalloped chicken and noodles 
Buttered green peas 
Red ap";le and celery salad 
3 wheat bread wi butter/fort .mar- 
Baked Custard - Beverage 

12. Fried oysters with lemon 
Parsleyed new potatoes 



11 



Whol 



Shredded carrot - cabbage salad 
Enriched rolls w. butter or fort .marg. r/hole-wheat bread w. butter/fort .marg 

Sponge roll w. orange cream filling 



Custard pi? 

Beverage 

6. Vegetable plate: 

Stuffed egg salad 
Fresh asparagus 
Parsleyed potato 
Sliced tomato 
C ornbr ead v , butt er/ fort .marg f 
Deep-dish apole pie 
Milk 



Milk 

13. Roast lamb with dressing 
Mashed potatoes - gravy 
Cabbage - green pepper salad 
Enriched bread w. butter/fort. marg. 
Fresh fruit cup 
Milk 



14. 



7 



Baked macaroni with cheese 
Butt-ered sliced carrots 
Klxed green salad w. French dressing . 
Wh dj - wheat bread w . butt er/f ort .marg . 
Gihgerbi ead 
Milk 



Baked fish fillet - tomato sauce 
Steamed new potatoes in jackets 

Green Becns 
Enriched roll w. butter/fort .marg . 
Blueberry pie 

Milk 



(over) 



\ 

\ 



fa.it;© 4 * . ...... vv £t ... 

R g jg i pes 

Baked Kidney Beans 

Ingred ients Amounts for ICQ Portions, 

Dry red kidney beans 12 pounds 

Bacon drippings or cubed, salt' pork 1-1/2 pounds 

Onions, sliced . 2 pounds 

Green peppers, chopped 1 pound 

Tomatoes.; canned 2-1/2 gallons 

Chili powder 1 ounce . 

Salt . 5 ounces 

Sizie of portion - 6 ounces 

1. Wash and sort the beans. Cover rith hot water and let soak overnight. 

2. Cook beans until tender in the wat^r .La which they were soaked. Drain. 

3. Cook the onions in the. bacon dripping s for about f> minutes. 

4. Combine the onions and fat, tomatoes, green peppers, seasonings. 

5. Auu the vegetable, mixture to the cooked beans and mix well, 

6. Pour into greased baking pans and bake for ,1 horn- in a moderate oven, 350°F. 



Crea med Eggs v*. Fresh Asparagus Tips 

Ingredients 
Fresh asparagus 
Cocking fat 
Flour 

Milk and asparagus liquor 
Eggs, hard-cooked 
Salt 

Paprika • 

Size of portion - 6 ounces 

1. Clean the asparagus and cut spear ends off about 4 inches in length. 
Reserve rest of tender stalks for use in soup. 

2. Cook the asparagus spears in a small amount of boiling water until 
tender. Drain, saving the liquor. 

3. J'ake a rove-: of the fat and flour. Atfc the asparagus liquor up to l/3 
of the total liquid, and then the remainder of the milk. Season* 
Cour. until thickened. 

4. Cut the hard-cooked eggs in half, lengthwise. 

5. Arrange asparagus tips in serving pan, add layer of eggs, and then 
sauce. Heat in oven to bring to serving temperature. 

6. Serve plain or on toast or split, buns. 




Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 




SERVING MANY 




*^>X YV^V^ \ WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION 

\ »ek£> ^Commodity Credit Corporatiori 



Food news forfaod managers in industrial 
plants^ r e^*"^ ants , hotels, and hospitals 



Vol. 3 No. 23 



July 16, 1945 



Proper handling of foods after purchasing, not only conserves their nutritive 
value but, also saves much loss by spoilage, thus cutting food costs as well 
as making available foods go farther: 

A. To conserve fresh foods (cooked or raw): 

1. Don't crush or bruise. 

2. Don't soak. . . 

3. Keep cool until ready to cook or eat. 
L. Use quickly when prepared. 

5. Make raw salads or slaw as a last minute job. 

Vitamin C gets away faster from foods peeled or cut. 

6. When you cook vegetables, use as little water as possible. 

Add salt to cooking xrater at the start to help hold Vitamin C. 

7. Cook quickly whenever you can. Put vegetables into boiling water, 

and bring the water back to the boiling point fast. 

8. Cook vegetables just tender but no longer. 

9. Stir vegetables only when you must. Stirring mixes air into the 

food and that destroys some of the vitamins. 

10. Do not add soda when cooking vegetables. Soda destroys thiamin 

and Vitamin C . 

11. Do not thaw frozen vegetables before cooking them. 

12. Serve raw frozen foods such as fruits, at once, immediately after 



Keep meat and poultry in the coldest part of the refrigerator, or your coldest 
storage place. 40°F is recommended. Should not be lower than 34-°F. 

Fresh Meat - 



thawing . 



Wipe with damp cloth just before cooking. If ground, store in 
extra cool place and cook for serving as soon as possible. 



(over) 



"Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street, San Francisco 3, California 



Meat Broth - 



Cool neat broth rapidly, keep cold, use promptly. 
C ooke d meat - 

Keep cooked neat covered. Chopped and sliced cooked meats 
spoil more quickly than meat in the piece. Cut or chop just 
before using. Keep meat sandwiches and salads cold right up 
to serving time. 

Cured Meat - 

Keep uncooked, well cured meat in a dark, cool, dry, airy place. 
Leave wrapping on ham, bacon and other cured neat until ready to 
cook. Keep mildly cured meats like fresh meat. 

Poultry - 

Wash poultry thoroughly inside and out, pat dry, and store very 
cold until time to cook. 

Sea, F ood - 

Fish and all other sea food spoils -in a few hours at room temperature. 
Store very cold. 

Milk - 

Do not let milk stand out. Keep it in the colder part of the refri- 
gerator. ^Jhen cooking take out only milk and cream needed and let 
rest 'stay cold. Don't pour left over milk back in the main supply. 
Put away milk the first thing after each meal. Keep odorous foods - 
fish, onions, cabbage, melons, away from milk. Use suds and sun • ■ 
on all milk containers. Scald containers frequently. 

Milk and -Egg 'Dishes - ' - 

Milk and eggs are good combinations, but spoil easily. If custards, 
cream pies and puddings and cream puffs are hot to be catori at once, 
cool them quickly, cover, and keep very cold. 

C he es e - ... ■ 

Cold and covered, are the watchwords for cheese, too. Use cottage 
and other soft cheese quickly, for they soon spoil. Hard, cured 
cheese, well wrapped, may be kept longer. 

E ggs - 

Store in case or wire baskets in a cool place. 



Page 3 



R oot Vegetables - 

Store in cool ventilated place. Cut tops to 2 inches to save 
space. Use edible turnip and beet tops with other salad' greens. 

Potatoes | Onions - 

A dry cool black-out suits them Ijoth, but avoid freezing. 
Berries, Cherries ? Grapes - 

Store on shallow trays in a cold place. Wash just before using. 

Peaches, Pears. Plums - . 

Spread to keep from bruising. Keep ripe fruit cool. Let under- 
ripe fruits ripen at room temperature. 

Oranges. Lemons - 

Spread out to prevent loss from mold and rot. Keep in. a cool place 

Apples - 

Apples soften as much in one day at 70°F as in two days at 5Q°F, 
so keep them at a cooler temperature. Do not pinch and bruise. 

Bananas - 

They are best kept at warmer temperatures than our native fruits. 
Let under-ripe bananas ripen at room temperature. Never store in 
refrigerator. 

Dried Fruits - 

The natural sugar in dried fruits keeps them from molding easily. 
Store them in a tight bag or jar in a cool place. Watch in warm 
weather for worms or weevils. Frequent check-up saves food. 

B read - 

In hot weather wrapped bread may be kept in the refrigerator. 
Cake - 

Cool on rack before storing in ventilated cabinet. 
Cookies - 

Crisp cookies and crackers should be kept in airtight tins or 
boxes all their own. 

(over) 



Page K 



F lour, Cereal^ Sugar, Spice - 

Don't try to store much, flour and cereal over the hot 
months - buy less and oftener. Store such dry foods as 
flour, cereal, sugar, spices in tight containers to keep 
out dust, moisture, insects and mice. 

Dried Vegetables - 

Mice and weevils are fond of dried vegetables, too. Keep 
dried vegetables in tight containers. 

Canned Goods - : . 

Tinned foods should bo kept dry to prevent rust and spoilage. 
Foods in glass should be stored in a cool dark place. 

Quick-Frozen Foods - 

Cuick-frozen foods must be kept frozen solidly until used. Don't 
hold too long even at freezing. Once thawed, frozen foods spoil 
rapidly. Do not refreeze. 

Fats - ' " . • ' 

v .*aste no fats. To keep cooking fats well, strain fat drippings 
to remove food particles and store in clean covered jars in a 
cool, dark, dry place until used. 



S TOP EVERY SMALL LOSS OF GOOD FOOD — SAVE EVERY DROP AND CRUMB. 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



Institutional Feeding Manaqe 



Stewards-Chef s-Cooks 



Vol, 3 No, 16 



Apr.il 16,_19A5 



IIEAT SAVER REGIPKS CONTT^ST 



Much has been said about how people from different parts of the United 
States have been brought together by the V/ar Industries* The man from 
Connecticut nay find himself working by the side of a Pueblo Indian from 
Mew Mexico, Again, it may be a fellow from the Pennsylvania Dutch section, 
who is the partner of a chap from Oklahoma. 

From wherever they come they have favorite home dishes* Hhy not, capitalize 
on everyone's ehj.ojrment of food to give you a chance to vary your menu and 
at the same time give it a personal touch that will appeal to all? 

Here's one way to do iti Have a "SPECIAL DISH COITTEST" requesting dishes 
with a "regional" background. 

Plan the general outline of your campaign to determine - 

(a) I'Jhether you want just recipes or menus high-lighting 
a certain dish; 

(b) VJhether you y.^ant to feature, a "prize meat saver dish", 
daily or weekly. If daily, an extra prise could be 
awarded on the best prize dish of the week to be chosen 
by popular vote during the following week; 

(c) nho the judges will be. A com/nittee of three should be 
enough. A representative of the workers, the industrial 
relations manager, and the cafeteria manager or head chef. 

(d) V'hat the pri:;:e is to,, he. It may be a free meal for the 
winner and, a friend on the day the menu or dish is served, 
or a cash award. TJhatever the prize, there should be pub- 
licity and generous acknowledgement ■ of the cooperation of 
the winner and other workers in making the contest a success. 

(over) 



WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF DISTRIBUTION 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3, California 

Telephone Exbrook 838l-Ex,I|.7 



Page 2 - 



Alter the general nlan is set, then: 



Seciu'e full and generous cooperation of the publicity 
and art departments.. 

Use Pesters. 



Results: 



Use either the public address system or a printed slip 
placed on the tray of each worker to announce the con-" 
test and keep up the pitch. 

Table tents vjith a note inviting participation in the 
contest and a blank space on vjhich to vjrite the recipe 
vjill also be an incentive for cooperation. 

^'rge the. cooperation of tlie wives of the worker's and 
give recognition to their efforts. 

Possibly set up the campaign to develop competition 
bet\i;een groups from different states (with posters an- 
ncuncing "sO' many" recipes from Pe.msylvania and only 
such a number from. "Io..ci", etc.). This vjill inspire 
group participation as well, as individual interest. 



At, first, the reciocs may be slow coming in but after 
the awarding of prises, the first week or two, interest 
in participation increases considerabl.y . 

Interest in the problems of the cafeteria is increased 
and a better understanding of c -ii'f ic.ulties results. 

Greater pride and appreciation of the efforts of the 
food deoartment will also be seen. 

You may also get constructive suggestions that will lead 
to imiprovem.erit in other chases of the department as vjell, 



y 


Q 

ce 
o 




-J 


1 a: 


u 

•as 


CD 


R 
?5 




—11 
-« 




-I 




ex 

U4 
CO 




\r- 

aE 


m 


*— 

z 

UJ 


ZD 


t— 

ee 










1 






3 



U, S, FIGHTING m¥\ CIJ TROPIC ISLi\NDS ARE PROTECTED FROM INSECTS BY 
AN IWSECTICIDS COIITAIKING FATTY ACI^^S FRO/' SALVAGED KITCHEN FATS 

— SO ^ 

SCOOP, S?'n' A^TD SCRAPE, VJHILE YOU COOK, AMD CONSERVE EVERY DROP 
OF KITCHEN FAT FOR REUSE AND SALVAGE. 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 




Office of Supply 

Vol. 3, No. 31 ,. , • ■ ^ , August 6, 194-5 

' PLANNING. DESSERTS TO MEET THE RAT IONS 

■ . ■ ■ f 

Industrial feeding establishments now. have the most limited supplies of sugars 
and fats that they have had at any period during the war. Planning desserts 
that will appeal to workers and come; within the rationed allowances of sugar 
and fats is indeed difficult. The outlook for increased supplies of these pro- 
ducts is not encouraging, and industrial feeding managers should be prepared to 
cope T^ith short rations for many months to come. 

""^hy Are Fats and Sugars in S h ort Supply ? 

Supplies of fats and sugar for civilians are at the lov/est level in many years 
and no relief is expected until the late spring or summer of 194-6, Civilian con- 
' sumption of fats and oils in 194-5 is expected to be about 4-0 pounds per capita, 
as compared with an estimated 45 pounds consumed during 194-4- • The reasons for 
the short supplies of fats and oils may be summarized as follows: 

Carry-over stocks o f fats and oils , especially lard, were very low. 

■■ Lard production has decreased. . 

I mports of fats and oils have been reduced because of wartime conditions. 

Export s to liberated countries are expected to be larger this year than 
during 

Military demands have increased. 

The 194-5 outlook for sugar is no more encouraging than the forecast for fats. 
Low stocks, smaller shipments from Cuba, and increased v/ar demands have resulted 
in a decrease in the 194-5 civilian supply of more than 1 million tons under that 
of last year. This means that the industrial cafeteria manager trill receive 
about 4-0 percent less sugar than he vras allowed -in 194-4- • 

(over) 



"Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street, San Francisco 3f California" 



Page 2 



5hould_Desscrts_bc_Incl^^ Special Lunch V 

In vic\7 of the short rations of fats and sugar, many industrial feeding managers 
may v/ondcr if they should continue to serve desserts on the special lunch. This 
raises the question, "Hov/ important arc desserts in the worker's lunch?" 

The answer to that question is thpt dessert makes an important contribution to 
the energy value of the worker's lunch and may also supply valuable nutrients. 
An adequate lunch for an industrial worker should provide one-third or more of 
his daily energy reqiiirc.mont s or at least 1,000 caiorios. The following meal 
pattern shows that the dessert may contribute 1/5 or more of the total energy 
value of a meal. 



Food Avera ge Cal oric Valiie 

Meat, fish, poultry, or meat alternates 200 

Potato or cereal dish 150 

Hot vegetable or salad , ■. 80 

Bread and butter or fortified margarine 200 

O.ie-half pint of milk 170 

■ Dessert ■ 200 or more 

Total calories l7oOO 

A mid-shift meal that docs not include a dessert is likely to fall short of 
being adequate in caloric value. ■ ' , 

Use Plen tiful Poaches f or Desserts 

One way of stretching rationed fats and sugar' Is to use fresh fruits in season 
for desserts i This month western peaches will be available and industrial feed- 
ing -mrinagers who have access to this supply should serve thorn frequently. 

Fresh poaches may be served in a variety of vmys. For example, whole, sliced, 
or in a fruit cup combined with blackberries, pineapple, oranges, or grapefruit. 
They may be etewed and nweetened \7ith cane or corn sirup, or p- rt sirup and part 
sugar . •• 

Peaches may be used in pastry desserts to save procepsed food ration points. 
Fresh peach pie, peach cobbler, peach turn-overs, and peach shqrtc'ike are popular 
desserts. Some ways to save fat in these desserts are: Use -a latticed crust to 
top the peach pie; and cut out shapes of pastry, bake them separately, and use 
thtm to top cooked peaches for wartime cobbler. 

Budgo1^___ Rationed i n Desserts 

In order to continue serving desserts on reduced fr.t and sugar- r'-tions-,- -the in- 
dustrial feeding manager must budget his rations carefully. The first step is 
to estimate the amount of rationed foods th- t can be used for desserts. The 
available amount of sugrr may be allocated in the following manner; 



Pounds 

Total sugar ration per week.... 180 

L^ss amount used for sweetening beverages & other foods... 50 



Amount available for desserts 130 



Page 3 



A similar estimate may bo made for fats. V/hcn the quantities of sugar and fats 
that are available for use in desserts have boon estimated, these amounts should 
then be used as a guide in planning desserts. 

Ch eck Your Dessert Formulas 

Dessert recipes should be checked for their fat and sugar content and those 
vjhich are economical in the use of these rationed foods should be selected. 

The following tabic shows the fat and sugar content of some common dessert 
recipes. The industrial cafeteria man'^.ger may make a similar table of the fat 
and sugar content of his own recipes. This will help him to estimate the total 
amount of fats and sugar required for the desserts on the week's menu, and to 
determine \7hether they can bo prepared with the available fats and sugar. 



Fat and Sugar Content of Common Desserts 

■ u i.. u , 4^°^?^'^s ^QQ portions 





Calories 


F 


a t 


Sugar 


Dessert 


Per portion 


Pounds 


Points 


Pounds 


Plain cake with frosting 


250 


1.5 


IB 


7.8 


Flain cake v/ithout frosting 


200 


1.5 


18 


3.8 


Devil's food cake with frosting 


250 


1.5 


18 


4.. 2 


Gingerbread 


200 


1.6 


19 


lA 


Fruit pie, double crust 


.^00 


3.2 


38 


3.7 


Cream pie, single crust 


. 300 


1.6 


" X9 


3.0 


Cornstarch pudding 


200 






3.0 


Bread pudding 


200 






3.0 


Fruit gelatin (sweetened) 


100 








Fresh fruit, stcxved 


100 






3.0 


Fresh fruit, raw 


50-100 






0 to 2.0 



Iced cake requires much more sugar than uniced cake. The amount of sugar used in 
the icing would be' enough to use in a pudding or would be sufficient to sweeten 
fresh fruit. Likewise, the^ fat used in a double-crusted fruit pie v/ould be enough 
to make crusts for one cream filled and one opened-faced fruit pie. 

Stretch Your Sugar Ration 

The quantity of sugar in many recipes may be reduced by the use of sugar substi- 
tutes. Corn and cane sirup and honey may be used in baked products to replace 
part of the sugar in the recipe. Directions for using sugar substitutes and 
other ways of saving sugar may be found in the publication "Saving Sugar in In- 
dustrial Feeding." 1/ 

Some cakes and ouddings may be made from prepared cake mixes and pudding powders. 
However, the allotment of sugar and fats used in the manufacture of these pro- 
ducts has also been restricted, so the supply of then is limited. 

1/ This publication may be obtained without charge from U.S. Department of Agri- 
culture, 821 Market Street, Room ^^12, San Francisco 3, California 



(over) 



Post this in your bdio shop: 

C oDSc rvo ,Fat and Sugr.r in_Bnkoci Products 

1. Uso stand'rdized rocipcs and follorr thun carefully. 

2. ;ii:!;h '-11 in-t . rials accurately. 

3. Rooove all shortening fron tho original container. 
• Scrape out nixing bov.-ls thoroughly. 

5. Roll pio crust to a uniforn thickness 

6. Re-use pic dou.^'h trimmings as soon as possible. 

7. Use ■ one-crust pies often. Make latticed topped or open- 

faced fruit pics instead of tv;o-crust pics. 

3. Use only enough pan grease to prevent sticking. 

9. Hake sheet cakes instead of layer cakes. 

10. Ice only the tops of cakes. 



Special.- Lunch bipnus f 91; August ^ 194-5 
1. . . ■ - 2. 



Cheese fondue 
Fresh green beans 
Carrot and peanut salad 
■'.'hole-wheat rolls v.dth butter or 

fortified margarine 
Plain cake vixVa marmalade frosting 2/ 
Milk. 

- 3. 

Salad .'plate: 

^Gotta^e' cheese 

Fresh fruit salad 
■-■ Celery curls 

Peanut butter nuffins Fith butter or 

fortified r.iurgarine 
Chocolate-nut pudding 
ivlilk . 

■-' : ^- . 

Scalloped fish 

Parsleyed nciv potatoes 

Sliced toaato salad 

Whole -vrheat broad i.vith butter or 

fortified nar sparine 
Fruit gelatine 
Beverage 



Veal chow nein 
Boiled rice. ■ 
Garden lettuce salad 
T/hole-uheat .bread r,dth butter or 

fortified margarine 
Fresh peach .pie 
Milk 

4. 

Veal loaf vdth gravy 
Mashed potatoc^s 
Fri-'sh beets and greens 
Enriched bread with butter or 

fortified margarine 
Fresh sliced peaches 
Beverage 

, ,6. 

Creole lina beans . 

Buttered carrot strips 

Mixed green salad 

V<'holc-";he-t bread v;ith butter or 

fortified margarine 
Baked custard 
Milk 



2/ Recipe is in "Saving Sugar in Industrial Feeding,". Page 6. 



Page 5 



7. 



8. 



Roast shoulder of lamb with dressing 
B.roi.med new potatoes 
Cabbage and carrot salad 
Enriched bread with butter or 

fortified margarine 
Fresh peaches 
Milk. 



Vegetable plate: 

Hard-cooked egg salad 

Corn-on~the-cob 

Buttered green beans 

Sweet pickle 
Yv'hole-wheat bread vdth butter 

fortified margarine 
Fresh blackberry pie 
Milk 



9. 

Frankfurters 
Potato salad 
Summer squash 

Enriched rolls v/ith butter or 

fortified margarine 
Fresh peach cobbler 
Milk 



10. 

Fish loaf with tomato sauce 
New potatoes in jackets 
Green peas 

Enriched bread with butter or 

fortified margarine 
Fresh fruit cup 
Milk 



11. 

Braised liver 
Scalloped potatoes 
Fresh greens 

I'ihole-wheat broad with butter or 

fortified margarine 
Ijeraon chiffon pudding 
Beverage 

13. 

Salad plate: 

Sliced luncheon loaf 

Kidney bean salad 

Sliced tomatoes 
Graham muffins with butter or 

fortified margarine 
Gingerbread 
Milk 



12. 

Scrambled eggs 
Baked potato 

Sliced cucumber and tomato sa! 
Enriched rolls with butter or 

fortified margarine 
Crumb pudding 2^ 
Beverage 



U. 

Chicken fricassee with noodles 
Fresh buttered carrots 
Endive with French dressing 
y/hole -wheat broad with butter 

fortified m'irgarine 
Raspberry sherbet 
Beverage 



y Recipe is in "Saving Sugar in Industrial Feeding," page 4-. 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



Institutional Feeding Manaaers 



With the New Year bringing in an increase in the need for point ration- 
ing, it will be a great advantage to start the year's operations with a 
careful record of point usage and storeroom inventory. For this reason 
and for the benefit of those who were not on our mailing list last year, 
we are again sending you an outline of a system of record keeping which 
-originated in one of the successful cafeterias in a large West Coast in- 
dustrial area . 

If allotments are pro-rated over the entire period and weekly inventories 
kept, the rationing situation can be kept well in hand. Then there will 
be less likelihood of meatless or sugarless weeks. 

The accompanying sheets are only a suggested plan whereby the minimum data 
necessary may be accumulated to maintain proper controls for recording each 
item and computing balance. 



Tn<= total civilian supply of food in 1945 is expected to continue about the 
same as in 1944 when per capita civilian consumption has been at least 7% 
above the ore-war average, 1935-39. Eggs will be plentiful, with poultry 
down a little. Pork will be down sharply while bettor cuts of beef will 
increase with total neat consumption lower than 1944 but higher than the pre- 
war figure. Canned vegetables *ill be lower in first part of '45 and /nay 
continue so depending on military needs. Fresh vegetable consumption 

is expected to fall off in '45, although it seems only logical we should all 
willingly produce and consume a greater proportion of our vegetables in 
fresh form while there is a military strain on our commercial canning capacity. 

From the nutritional viewpoint, we should count our many blessings, for 
nutrient consumption of our people is estimated at a higher level now during 
the war than it was in pre-war years. There is every reason to believe, with 
intelligent food selection and a willingness to use alternates for some of 
the commodities which are in short supply because of military needs, that we 
can keep right on improving the country's nutritional status despite the war. 




Vol. 3 No. 2 January 8, 1945 



RATION POINT RECORDS . 



T HE 1945 OUTLOOK 



WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF DISTRIBUTION 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3, Califo 

Telephone Exbrook 838l-Ex,lf7 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



Institutional Feedin 
Stewards-Chef^ 




\ 



rffZN/ 



ers 




a neimoH please / 



3, /U. // 



SERVING i-'ANY 
(Formerly Institutional Food Service) 



During the coming months when the meat supply 'will- be limited and many cuts ra- 
tioned, food service operators throughout the country must conserve every ounce 
of .the available meat supply. To do this they must use the meat to the best ad- 
vantage. This will require ingenuity in planning and skill in cooking. 

Use p roper method s of cooking 

Proper methods of cooking must be used for each variety and cut of meat in order 
to make it palatable and to assure the largest serving yield. Shrinkage is kept 
to a minimum in meats cooked at lovs temperatures. They- are more, tender, more 
juicy, and slice more easily than meats cooked at high temp$r&fc$res • In fact, 
low temperature cooking is essential to making the most of meats. 

Decre ase sh rinkage 

A study of the effect of temperatures on the cooking losses was made on two 
paired legs of lamb weighing 5 pounds 2 ounces each. One lamb leg was roasted 
in a hot oven at 450°F., while the other one was roasted in a moderately slow 
oven at 300°F. Tnc two roasts were cooked to the same degree of doneness as 
indicated by the internal temperature registered on meat thermometers. At the 
end of the cooking period the lamb leg roasted at the high temperature weighed 
3 pounds 3 ounces - a shrinkage of 1 pound 10 ounces. The roast cooked at the 
low temperature weighed 4 pounds 3 ounces after cooking - a shrinkage of 1$ 
ounces. Thus 11 ounces were saved by cooking the roast at the lower temperature. 

The shrinkage in the roast lamb cooked at 450°F was about 50 percent more than 
that of the meat cooked at 300°F, The' difference is represented largely by an 
increased loss in fat and water. VT hen -this fat .and moisture are retained in the 
meat, it is possible to obtain more sliceable meat. The fat and moisture lost 
were paid for in money and in ration points. A saving of 11 ounces in shrinkage 
might increase the serving yield by as much as three additional 3-1/2 ounce por- 
tions . 



Less tender cuts of meat also should be cooked at low temperatures by moist heat 
as in braising and simmering. They will shrink less and produce more appetizing 
products when they are cooked below the boiling point than when they are allowed 
to boil. 

Us e low-point, no point me ats 

This, method of low temperature cooking applies to the Utility grade of lamb and 

(over) 

WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF DISTRIBUTION V 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3* California 

Telephone Exbrook 838l-Ex,li7 



Page 2 - 



veal which is now point free. Because Utilitj r grade meat is low in fat, more 
fat may need to be added in the cooking process. Meat drippings can be used 
here. When cooked properly, the Utility grade of meat will provide a delicious 
stev; or moat pie. It is well to remember, however, that Utility grade meat is 
not as rich in flavor as Choice grade. Dishes made of Utility grade may be 
improved when cooked with vegetables and seasoned with herbs and spices. Use 
celery stalks and leaves, chives, garlic, green peppers, onions, parsley, toma- 
toes, whole cloves, peppercorns, whole allspice berries, and bay leaves in 
savory combinations. 

Use variety meat s 

The old adage — if at first you don't succeed, try, try again — is most ap- 
propriate here. Dishes made of variety meats are becoming more popular, as 
they are becoming better known. Stuffed heart, boiled tongue, and beef and 
kidney pie are notable examples. 

Heart, liver, kidneys, tongue, sweetbreads, brain, and tripe are low point or 
point free meats which are high, in nutritive value. They supply extra miner- 
als and vitamins to the diet. They n\ay be used in a variety of dishes, and 
the ingenious food service operator who popularises some of these dishes with 
workers will ease the strain on ration points. 

U se meat extenders 

Meat extender dishes will help to stretch the red points,, too. Spread the 
meat flavor by serving stews with vegetables or dumplings, meat pies, patties, 
loaves, turnovers, croquettes, and baked hash; by serving meat scalloped with 
macaroni, noodles, spaghetti, or rice; and by serving it with dressing . 

Conserve meat fats 

Conserving fats is just as important today as making the best use of the avail- 
able meat. Fats are not plentiful and require precious ration points. 

Soiue ways in which to conserve fats are : 

1. Use every ounce of drippings and rendered meat fats for frying, 
seasoning, and shortening. 

2. Trim excess amounts of fat from pork or beef before it is cooked. 
Try out this fat at a low temperature. Small amounts may be tried 
out in the top of a double, boiler. Large amounts may be melted in 
a steam-jacketed kettle. 

3. Use the cracklings, the brown bits from tried out fat, to flavor and 
shorten cornbread and muffins . 

4. Preserve fats used in deep-fat frying for use as long as possible by 
never letting them reach the smoking point. 

5. Keep drippings and used fat in covered containers in the refrigerator 
so that they will not become rancid. 

6. Clarify soft fats by heating them slowly with sliced raw potatoes for 
about 20 minutes. Then strain through cheese cloth into a clean con- 
tainer. 

7. Clarify solid fats by adding 1 pint of hot water for 'each pound of fat 
and heating the mixture slowly for about 15 minutes. Stir well. Strain 
through cheese cloth and chill. Remove the layer of hardened fat and 
scrape off the dark material clinging to the bottom. Fat clarified in 
this way should be used promptly as it does not keep well. 

8. Use fat cut from the meat or meat drippings for frying meats and fish, 
and for browning braised meat and brown stews . 



Page 3 - 

9. Use drippings from hara ? bacon, salt pork, and sausage for seasoning 

. vegetables, frying potatoes, in scalloped and creamed dishes, and in 
stuffing. 

10. Use melted bacon fat combined with vinegar as a dressing for wilted 
lettuce and other greens. 

11. Use ohe-erust pies often instead of those with a double crust. Take 
latticed' topped fruit pies instead of those with a closed crust. 

12. Feature' deep-dish pies that require only a top crust. 

13- Save ■ chicken and other poultry fat and use it to flavor cream sauces 

and cream' soups. ..;•••<' 
14 » Try clarified pork fat for shortening gingerbread and molasses cookies. 

menus 

Several menus for Lunch Specials which suggest how appetising and nutritious 
meals may be planned by using meat "extenders, meat alternates, and variety ,■ 
meats, are given below: .. • ' - 



'Cabbage rolls 
Hashed brown potatoes 
Green beans 
Head lettuce salad 
Enriched bread with butter 

or fortified margarine 
Fruit Betty 

Milk . '■: ••• 

Spaghetti with meat sauce 

Steamed. carrot strips 

Mixed green salad with French dressing 

T 7hole-wheat bread with butter or 

fortified margarine 
Custard pie 

talk 

Fried halibut steak with lemon 
Baked potato 
Fresh spinach 

Cole slaw - •• , 

r . T hole-wheat rolls with butter or 
fortified margarine ' . ' • 
Deep Dish applie pie 
Milk 



Lamb stew with vegetable's • 
Farsleyed potatoes ■ 
Red apple and .celery salad 
Enriched rolls with butter or 

fortified margarine 
Warm gingerbread 
Milk ' • 

Braised stuffed beef heart- 

Hashed potatoes and gravy 

Baked Hubbard squash 

Raw turnip sticks 

Enriched bread. with butter or 

fortified margarine 
Chocolate pudding 
Hilk 

Scalloped veal and noodles 
Buttered broccoli 
Soiced beets 

Cornbread with butter or foritifed 

margarine 
Fruit gelatine 
Milk 



CABBAGE '-ROLLS 



Ing rod le nt s 



S ervings for LOO 



Cabbage leaves' (f rpm about "'6 heads .pi /..cabbage ) 
Ground neat., uncooked , , ' 

Uncooked rice ... : ;P*V" V '"' \. 

'Onion, minced •';:■:> - • ■■ '• '' 

Cooking fat' '■• • -f^PX* '■ 

Salt ' ... ' t •'•'•••' .',•■:■ 

Paprika - '- ; ./. ' 'J $ ' ' '^l 

Hot .viator 'or vegetable juice 

Number of portions - 100 cabbage rolls 



100 leaves 
20. pounds 
' U pounds 

1 quart 
I'/? cup ' 

U ounces 

2 Tbsp. 

3 qts. 



1. V'ash cabbage, remove core, and steam. -until leaves are wilted enough to roll 

2, Cook the minced onion in the- fat for about 5 minutes. 
3* Kix the onion, salt, - rice,' and ground meat together. 
k* Form the meat into loo-se rolls. . . 

5., Place a roll of' 'me at in the center of a cabbage leaf and roll it up. 

Place • in baking pan, resting the roll in position to hold the leaf in place 
6. Add a little hot water or vegetable juice. Cover pan and cook in moderate 

oven at 350 F- for about lg hours, or until rice is tender. '• 

A 1 1 E N 'T 10 Nn P LEASE ! Last Fail contained much of the foregoing . but 
in greater detail* '.-Copies- may be reordered if desired by, merely checking the - 
issues wanted and mailing the following request: 



COKPANY NAVE 
ATTENTION OF 
Aiidress 



TYour .Name ) 



TITLE 



( ) MEAT COOKERY Vol. 2 No. &" ' October 30, 19U 

( ) ROASTING Vol. 2 No. 2 November 6, 19A4 

( ) COOKING LESS TENDER ; KEATS Vol. 2 No. u" .» 20, 19U 

( ) COCKING LESS TENDER KEATS " 2 No. 5 " 27, 1944 
(Continued) 



SEND THIS FORM TO: 

I7AR FOOD ADMINISTRATION 
OFFICE OF SUPPLY ' COLl'ODITY CREDIT CORPORATION 

Industrial Feeding Scot ion - Retain 700 - 821 Market Street, San Francisco, 3 

California 
Telephone Ei: 8381 - Ex. 44. 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 




SERVING MAN¥ '^^^^^ 



Food news for food managers in i ndLs.tK iephf(j||£j^ 
plants, restaurants, hotels, and hofep ital s 



Commodity Credit Corporation 
Office of Supply 



WAR FOOD ADMIN ISTilAT ION 




Vol. 3, No. 33 



SOLffiTHING YOU DIDN'T EAT 



August 20 J 



V/alt Disney tells the story of nutrition in a new sound technicolor film entitled 
"Something You Didn't Sat". This 16 mm. film is available after September 1, 194-5? 
on loan free upon request to the: 



'.'ie are calling this excellent film to your attention in order that it jna^'" be shown 
in all plants where, regularly scheduled showings of war movies are being held. 
Please call this film to the attention of your plant special programs' director. 

Presented with the famous IValt Disney touch, the film tells the facts of nutrition 
simply and vividly so that people everywhere understand and apply them to everyday 
diet. Highlighted in the film are the interesting discoveries of science as far 
back as the 17th Century when on the English Frigate "Salisbury", scurvy, a mys- 
xerious and often fatal malady, was dramatically cured by the ship's doctor through 
the addition of lemon to the sailors' diets. 

These and many classical stories upon which our modern knowledge of nutrition are 
b.-^sed are all brought together in a fitting climax that presents the Basic Seven 
Foods, the 1945 nutrition guide for good health. In conclusion, the film illu- 
strates the selection of three daily y/ell-bnlanced meals. 

Sponsored by the "iar- ./ictivitics Committee of the Motion Picture Industry in behalf 
of the" tJ'.S'. ■ Dbpartraont of agriculture, the message in this film is a national one, 
and one well' worth presenting. 

POTATO SITUATION 

Within a month the picture on potatoes has changed from scarcity to abundance. 
Shipments of U.S. Ho, 1 uotc.itOcs to consumer inarkets have been heavy and continued 
heav;y^ shipments are anticipated, k good shopping tip is to "buy often." Being 
earl;/ potatoes, they are not suitable for storing. They must be consumed now. 
It is necessary to increase.. the consumption of these^ old fayorites,_ in^q rder ^ to 
prevent possible loss of this vital crop. Ii; con;:arison with other vegetable 
retail prices, potatoes cost little. 



"Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street, San Francisco 3, California" 



Office of Information 

U. S. Department of Agriculture 

Washington 25, D. C. 



(over) 



2 



Office 01 Information 

U. 3. DGpartmont of <lgriculture 

W-,aiiir.gton 25, D. C. 

Dear Sirs: 

11c arc interested in shovjing to our employees the ne-7 
16 mm. sound technicolor film entitled "Something You 
Didn't Eat." 

It is our understanding that this is on free loan from your 
department and to Tvish to make application for the film as 
.soon as it is available. 

The film 'vill be returned promptly after it has bucn shovm. 
Please advise us the drte on which v;e may expect its receipt 

Very truly yours, 

Company name 

Mail to atL-.;ntion of 

Street address 

City... ,.: 

State 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 




SERVING MANY 



Food news for food managers in industrial 
plants, restaurants , hotel s , and hospitals 



LIBRARY 

CURRENT SERIAL RECORfi 

OCT 26 



WAR FOOD ADMINISTltATION 
Commodity' Credit f'orporatiun 
Office of Supply 



Vol. 3, Mo. 29 



July 23, m5 



The "Attention P].caso" bulletins will now be coning to you under a new heading 
with the title "Sorving Many." 

"Serving Many" has been the title used nation??.ll5'- on a monthly bulletin which 
will noviT come to you weekly. 



- DEFSATING RATIC« ?OIM' GRELILINS - 



Nov; that meat and fat point allotments have been cut, it is more necessary than 
ever to keep the points from "disappearing" too fast. POINT BIJDGEl'illCi and the 
use of LEviT STB.ETCiniRS can't be emphasized too much. Belovj are s\iggested bal- 
anced menus for seven days ivhich offer a variety ov^r the week yet call for low 
point m'Oc.ts generally and stretchers, and are planned to keep within the present 
maxim-uni inntitufcional allotment. Only one slic e d, meat, pot roast, is. offered, 
and is balanced by meatless items on other days. 



1. 

Pot roast v,'ith noodles 
or 

Baked mackerel fillets Vvith dressing, 
Par9le3''ed carrots Greon beans 
Jello or iound cake 
Beverage 



2. 

Meat loaf, brown gravy 
or 

Ravioli with spinach 
Wax beans Browned potatoes 
Chocolate pudding or Pie 
Beverage 



(Over) 

"Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street, San Francisco 3, Californid 



Me;:t and vegetablo pic, biscuit irust Hamburger balls with Spanish rice 
or or 
Baked bean croquettes Creamed codfish and diced potatoes on toast 

Hr.rvord boots Mashed potatoes Coleslaw Spinach 

Applesauce or Cake Fresh fruit or Pie 

Beverage Beverage 



5. 



6. 



Liver and Onions 
or 

Baked hash with pickled beets 
Augratin potatoes 
Sliced melon or vanilla pudding 
Beverage 



Hungarian goulash with noodles 
or 

Stuffed bell peppers 
Z^icchini Mashed potatoes 

Cabinet pudding or Pie 
Beverage 



7. 



Baked Cod Creole 
or 

Spanish rice with diced frankfurters 
Butter beans Coleslaw 
Fruit jello or Cake 
Beverage 



It must be remembered that for evefy serving of moat over the point allotment 
per meal at least one meal of non-rationed items must be served to make up for it. 

Si ze of Portions - 

The size of the food portions should be adequate to provide at least 1,000 cal- 
ories and one-'third of the day's nutritive requirements. To help you establish - 
the proper size portions the followint table is repeated from the April 9 bulletin: 

Kind of Food Quantity 

Roasted Meats 3 to 3-1/2 ounces, cooked weight 

Braised and fried meats ,. 4- ounces or more, cooked weight 

Fish ». U ounces or more, cooked weight 

Eggs 1 or more 

Meat extender dishes 6 oz. - or more if gravy or sauce incl. 

Meat alternate dishes , 6 to 8 ounces 

Potatoes 4- ounces 

Cooked vegetables , 3-1/2 to I, oz. (aKout l/2 cup) 

Chopped and diced salads U oz. (about l/2 cup) 

Brea.d 2 slices or more 

Puddings.,,., , U oz, (about l/2 cup) 

Pies 1/6 or l/7 of 9-inch pie 

Cake 2-inch square, or the equivalent 

Milk 8 ounces 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



Institutional Feedinq Nahaders^ 



Stewards-Chef s-Copks 




Vol. 3 Mo. 



. June 11, m5 
COCKirrT- -VErxETABLES TO CONSER\^ FOOD VALUES 



Ve|Oetnbles Are Plentiful 

There has be^n so much concern receatly over foods that are in short supply th; 
little attention has been paid to the many foods that are available. For instai 
fresh vegetables will be in abundant supply for the balance of 19A5- The vege- 
table crop in 19AA v.-as a record o.iO -i-.u this year's production is expected to 
top even that record, Diu^ing the month of June, cabbage^ carrots, new potntoej 
onions and tomatoes are expected to be plentiful in national supply. Many oth- 
er fresh vegetables also vdll be available in local areas. 

Industrial feeding managers should "watch for seasonable vegetables that are 
plentiful, and use them often vjhilo they are available and v;hen the best value^^ 
in quality and price can be obtained. 

Cooking Vegetables Properly - 

At this time v;hen some of the popular foods are scarce, it is important to uti 
lize the available foods to the best ndvantage. It is not enough for the food 
manager mv.rely to include plentiful foods on the menu to "sell" them to the 
workers. In order to have sales appeal, fresh vegetables, for example, must bf, 
prepared so that they will look attractive and taste good. 

It is .fortunate that the methods of cooking vegetables that best preserve 
their natural color and fine flavor also tend to conserve a larger, amount of 
their nutritive value than do the less satisfactory methods. Overcooking and 
long standing after cooking not only change vegetable colors from fresh greens 
and clear yellovjs to olive drab and grayed yellovj tones, but at ' the same time 
destroy much of the nutritive value of the vegetables. 

Research in the Quantity Cooking of Vegetables - 

During the last f e\v years the effects of cooking vegetables in quantity by 
various methods on the retention of nutritive values has been studied. The in- 
terest of the Army and Navy in findings of this kind, as they affect the nutri- 
tion of men and women in the Armed Services, has stimulated much of this resea 

Vegetables contain varying. amoun+ s of nutrients depending on the variety, stag' 
•of maturity and ways in vjhich. they hr^ve been stored and shipped. Green and yel- 
low vegetables supply vitamin A and some alsp supply vitamin C and vitamin Bl. 
Tomatoes are a good source of both vitamins A and C. Potatoes, because of the 

. , . (over 

WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION-OFFICE OF SUPPLT-<X}C 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3, California 

Telephone Exbrook 838l-Ex,44 



Pnge 2 - 



r.^l^tively large quantities eaten by most -workers, are a fairly good source of 
vitamin C and of iron. Most of the research on vegetables cooked in quantity 
has been to determine the effect on the retention of vit-^.min A, Bx, and C, Al- 
though all the results h-.ve not been conclusive, and more experimental ^jor'; 
needs to be done, the studies indicate the trend of procedures in cooking and 
handling vegetables to be followed in industrial feeding. Some of the finoingt 
in which industrial feeding managers will be interested are: 

1. llinimize Vitamin and Mineral Losses . Cooking always causes some loss in 
the nutritive value of vegetables. The causes for these losses are exposure 
to heat, water, and air, I'ethods of large quantity vegetable cookery that re- 
duce exposure to these factors to a n:'-'.mum are steam cooking and boiling in 

a steam-jacketed kettle. 

2. Bring Vegetables Quickly to the Boiling Point , Another reason for cooking 
vegetables in a steam-jacketed kettle, instead of on top of the stove, is th'it 
the retention of \itamin C is greater when the time it takes the food to heat 
through and begin to cook is short. Large quantities of vegetables placed in 
boiling water lovjer the temperatur • cf the water. The time required to bri ig 
the water back to the boiling point is shorter when a ste^-jacketed kettle is 
used. . • 

3. Cook Vegetables a Short Time to Retain Nutritive Values . Not only the' tem- 
perature, but the length of time that vegetables are cooked affects the amount 
of nutrients that are lost. Fast cooking for a short time results in a smaller 
loss in food value than that resulting from slo^;er cooking. Vegetables ster.med 
for a short time in a compartment pressure steamer retain more nutritive value 
than those cooked a longer tLme in boiling water. The high temperature in the 
pressure steamer may be destructive to the vitfunin content of vegetables if the 
are overcooked: therefore, the time schedule should be watched carefully so 
that the vegetables are cooked in the shortest time possible to make them tende; 

/f* Use as Little Boiling ITater as possible Vhen Cooking Vegetables . Food losse 
are increased when vegetables are cooked in excessively large amounts of v.'atcr 
because the nutrients dissolve out in the water. ^Then vegetables are cookeri in * 
steam- jacketed kettle just enough boiling xvater should be used to prevent the 
vegetables from sticking and to bubble up through the mass. 

5, Do not Cook Vegetables at a "Galloping" Boil or Stir Them Unnecessarily . 
Keep the water in ^which vegetables are cooked boiling gently, but do not let 
the water boil so hard that the vegetables are broken, for this increases the 
vitamin and mineral losses, StirrLag \. ^>getables vjhile they are cooking increas- 
es the exposure to air and therefore the vitamin C loss, ;ind should be avoided, 

6 , Cook Vegetables ^'Jhole or in Large Pieces to Conserve Their Nutritive Value , 
Less of the nutrients is destro^red by exposure to air and vjater when the vege- 
tables are cooked whole or in large pieces. Young, tender vegetables should be 
cooked whole, and older ones should be cut in halves, quarters, or strips rathe: 
than in smaller pieces..'. , 

7, Cook Vegetables Immediately Before They Are Served . Holding Vegetables in 
either a bain marie or steam table after they are cooked, or even letting them 
stand at room temperature increases the loss of vitamin. Long holding peri :)ds 
are especially hannful. Vegetables should be cooked as short a time as possib] 
before they are served. The rules for cooking vegetables given below are base 
on the experimental studies on vegetable cookery. If they are followed in youi* 
plant, vegetables should be better cooked and h'^ve higher nutritive value. Try 
posting these rules for the guidance of the vegetable pooks. (See pp.5 and 6) 



1. 



Menus for Special. Lunches 

2. 



Hamburg cake ' " 
Crerjned new potatoes 
Tomato salad Tilth green onions 
Enriched roll with butter or for- 
tified ranrgarine 
Butterscotch Pudding 
Beverage 



3. 

stuffed Shoulder of Lanib 
Parsleyed Potatoesr 
New Beets and Greens 
Enriched Bread with Butter or 

fortified Margarine 
Fruit Gelatin 

Beverage 



5. 

Fried Fish with Lemon 
Scalloped Potatoes 
Fresh Asparagus 
^Thole-wheat Bread with Butter 

or fortified Margarine 
Pink rhubarb sauce 
Oatmeil Cookie 

Beverage 



Vegetable Plate: 

Baked corn pudding 

Buttered green beans 

Cabbage and carrot salad 
VJhole-whfiat . bread w. butter or 

Fortified Margarine 
Blackberry Pie 
Milk 

A. 

Boston Style Baked Beans w. Salt Pork 
Fresh buttered broccoli . 
Sllc.ed Tomato and Lettuce. Salad 
a?own bread with butter oir 

Fortified Margarine 
Cottage PuddijTg with Fruit Sauce 
Milk 



Boiled tongue with horseradish sauce 
Mashed Potatoes 
Fresh Spinach 

Enriched Roll with Butter or 

Fortified Margarine 
Strawberry Shortcake 
Milk 



7. 

Chicken Pie (with Celery and Peas) 
Parsleyed Potatoes 
Tossed Vegetable Salad 
Enriched Rolls ?jith Butter or 

Fortified Iiargarine 
Fruit Cupp 

Milk 



8. 

Cheese omelet 

Steamed new Potatoes in Jackets 
Mixed Green Salad w. Sliced Tomatoes 
Enriched Bread w. Butter or 

Fortified Margarine 
^Tarm gingerbread 

laik 



9. 

Sausage Roll 
l ashed Potatoes 
Buttered Carrot Strips 
Enriched Bread w. Butter or 

Fortified Margarine 
Peach Cobbler 
Milk 



10. 

Baked Lima Beans w. Bacon 
Scalloped Tomatoes 
Sliced Cucumber Salad 
iThole-wheat Rolls w. Butter or 

Fortified Margarine 
Baked Custard 
Milk 



(over) 



11. 



12. 



Briised Liver 
Crea.ned new PotatQ©s 

New Cabbage 

"^'hole-wheat Brerd Butter or 
Fortified Margarine 

Apple s-iuce Cnke 
Bevernge 



13. 

Vegetable Plate; . 

Cottage Cheese and Shdlve SfiljaiJ 
Parsle3'-ed-Buttered Carrots 
Baked Potato 
Sliced Tojnato 
^■'Jhole-wheat Bread tw. Butter . or Forti- 
fied Margarine 
Fresh Rhubarb Pie 
Kilk 



Fish Lor-il" with Tomato Sauce 
Parslcy-ed Now Potatoes 
Cabbage and green pepper salad 
Enriched Roil vdth Butter or 

Fortified i'?.rgarine 
Chocolate Nut Pudding 
Beverage 



14. 

Steaia&d Frankfurter 

Hot Potato Salad 

Buttered Carrots 

-'hol^-wheat BreJid tn. Butter or- 

Fortified Margarine 
Jelly Roll T;, Lemon Cream Filling 



Post in the Kitchen 



RULFS FOR COOKING VEGETABLES 



1. Steam tender vegetables, such as asparagus tips, broccoli, 
cabbage, -and cauliflower, in snallovj pans without water. 



2. Steam potatoes and root vegetables in perforated steamer pans. 



3. Boil leafy groen veget'ibles, green peas, green beans, corn on 

the cob, and onions, in a steam-jacketed kettle using just enough 
salted water to bubble up through the vegetables. 



A. Cover vegetables while thoy are boiling. 



5. Do not stir vegetables unnecessarily while they are cooking. 

6. Whenever possible, cook vegetables whole, or as halves, quarters, 
or strips rather than thin slices, small dices, or fine shreds. 

7. Cook vegetables until just tender and serve them as quickly as 
possible. 



8, Cook vegetables on a staggered schedule and replenish the steam 
table supoly every 15 or 20 minutes. 



9. Use the liquid in which vegetables have been cooked for soups, 
sauces, and gravies. 



'Post in the Kitchen 


Tmc'table for Cooking Vegetables 








Kind of Vegetable 


Pre-Cooking Preparation 


Fethod of Cooking Time 


in 


I'in 


Asparagvis 


Tough stalk rer.cved 


Compartment steamer 


8 to 10 


Beans , lima 


Shelled 


St earn- jacketed kettle 








Berjis, snap 


VJhole or cut ia l4"lengths " " " 




to 




BtJfet s 


Unpeeled 


Compartment steamer 


60 


to 


90 


Beets 


Peeled and Diced 


Compartment steamer 


8 


to 


10 


Beet greens 


Toush stems removed 


Steam-jacketed kettle 


8 


to 


10 


Broccoli 


Outer leaves r'sriovdd, 
stems split 


Compartment steamer 




+ o 

TjO 


1 ^ 


Brussels Sprouts 


Trimmed 


Compartment steamer 


L 
D 


LpO 


o 

o 


Cabbag e 


oub ini/O sections 


u omoar XimenX) su earner 


O 
O 


f --^ 


1 p] 


Cabbage 


Shredded 


Compartment steamer 


c. 


f n 

bU 


r 


Carrots 


TJhole or cut in stripn 


Compartment steamer 


-L5 


x>o 




Caulif loiMer 


ijroKen inbo ixovjerebs 


uompyri.nenx. soeamer 


c 
J 


LO 


o 


Collard Greens 


Stems removed 


Steam-Jacketed kettle 








Corn-on-the- cob 


Shucks removed 


Steam-jacketed kettle 


c> 

o 


bO 


1 n 
xu 


Kfde 


Cut coarsely ■ 


Steam- jacketed kettle 






IT) 


Onions 


Peeled, whole 


St earn- jacketed kettle 


15 


to 


20 


Parsnips 


TJhole or half 


Compartment steamer 


20 






Peas, green 


Shelled 


steam-jacketed kettle 


10 


to 


15 


Potatoes, Irish 


Pared, whole, or in 
jackets 


Compartment steamer 


25 


to 


1 Pi 


Potatoes, sv.-eet 


'. /hole 


Compartment steamer 


30 


to 


^ ri 
A-U 


Rutabagas 


Pared 


Compartment steamer 


30 to 


AO 


Squash, summer 


Cut into wedges 


Compartment steamer 


12 


to 


15 


Squash, Hubbard 


Cut into sections 


Compartment steamer 


20 


to 


30 


Spinach 
T'orni.os 
Turnip greens 


Coarse stems removed 
Diced 

Tough stems removed 


Steam-jacketed kettle 
Compartment steamer 

St earn- jacketed kettle 


5 
20 

10 


to 
to 
to 


9- 

30 
20 



1/ The range in time is given to provide for difference in variety and maturity 
of vegetables vihich may affect the length of the cooking period. The minimum lim/ 
should be used wherever possible. 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



Institutional Feedinq Manaqers 
^ Stewards-Chefs-Cooks frjr 



ATTilifTm PUAS£ f 



Vol. 3 No. 23 



June 



SUGG^^STSD ^ORI' FOR PAYROLL ANALYSIS 



X945 



The paYroU constitutes one of the major cost items in a food service operation. 
Industrial food operations are different from commercial restaurants in that the| 
are synchronized ?;ith the plant production schedule. For this reason, the in- 
dustrial payrolls may run somewhat higher than fcr a commercial operation be- 
cause the food service must sometL^.es carry on unprofitable operations where 
the sales revenue does not ai\^ays justify'- the service rendered, such as (1) 
oraveyard, (2) Sunday at double tLme, (3) service to small and scattered groups^ 
and (4) simultaneous and rapid service for thousands of -lorkers. 



The following suggested analysis for a typical week inill disc 
some operations, if they should ezist: 



1. rjh.at is the payroll percentage? 

Total v^eekly payroll? | 
"Total Tveekly sales 
p 



•roll to sales 



OS e any burden- -: ^ \ 

^m^^^ ^^^^ . \ 



2. Payroll classification: 
A dmini s t r a t i V e 
Preoaration 



Weekly Payroll 



berving 
Cleaning 




Total 



3. Ho'.v much overtime over 4S hours? 

Total hrs. typical 
I'Veek over -48 hours . 

Administrative 

Preparation __„_ . 

Serving 

Gleaning . 

'^otal 



Total overtime 
veeklj' cost. 



Is si:.ch tisc.e authorized on signed authorization form, hy I'anager" Yes No 

Are i-easons stated on form, as to why overtime v;as necessarj'-? Yes No 

Are signed authori'.:ations checked with time cards? 



les 



i\!0 



(over) 



WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION-OFFICE OF SOPPLT-COC 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3> California 

Telephone Exbrook 858l-Ex,t4 



Page 2 - 



A. VJhat is the amount of the Sunda;,^ payroll? 

Sunday Fa.yroll •> Sunday Sfiles > Payroll to Sales % 

p. ^'hat effect does the 2nd and 3d shift have in increasing pa;.'-roll costs? 
First Shift Second Shift Third Shift 



^7eelcly Pc-j^roli 



p ;/i-oU to S.::los % % '■. 

(It is desirable to pro-rate charges for cleaning, administrative, etc., 
expenses to each shift). 

6. How many part-tinie plar^t personnel are used? 

Total number part time plcnt enplo3-ees daily 



Tot:'::.l !;i.'3.tuv,r ol liOurs per v.eek 

To >,r,-;-c jots are they assigned? 

7. Hhat other .means of revenue are available to increase sales and so 
reduce percentage of payroll costs? 

Tobacco'' B^tvj. Shift Service 



Ce^nd;^? 3:\.J.d:a3t S.;rv;.o; 



8. Aucclj'Se tiie efficiency of operations carried on in scattered areas 
vvhere only a few plant vjorkers are served. For this purpose, follow 

• the suggestions in number "5" for each individual feeding unit. 

9. ^'Ihat 'leans are used to conserve manpov/er? 

Yes No 

Self -busing of dishes ' 

Efficient Goiintcr ia^ranjement 

Plate Lunch ' . 

Staggering of Lujach Pwriods ; 

Compartment Tray Service 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



institutional Feedinq Nanaqe 
Stewards-Chefs-Cooks 



A TTEMTIOH PLEASE / 



Vol. 3 I T o. 2 



January 22, 1%5. 



MEAT EXTENDERS AND ALTERNATES (Continued) 

'Tithin the last fourteen months meat extender and alternate recipes have 
been included frequently in these bulletins. Additional ones will appear 
in this and future bulletins. 

Listed below are the recipes from past bulletins. If you wish a copy of 
any of th'eja they will be sent you on request from this office: 

Braised Ox Joints - 
Turkish Stew' 

Cottage Cheese Croquettes 
Noodles and Vegetables 

Rice Omelet 
Cheese Rice 
Baked Soy Beans 

Meat and Soy Grit Loaf 
Stuffed Green Pepper with Soy Grits 
Spaghetti Casserole (ground beef) 
Nut Egg Croquettes 
Soy Grit and i'eat Hamburgers 
Ham and Macaroni Croquettes 
Spanish Rice and Baked Eggs 

Ham and Egg Croquettes 
Eggs and Pork Sausage 
'Hang town Fries 
Scalloped Lamb and Macaroni 
Creole Macaroni with Meat 
Baked Spaghetti with Pork 
Scalloped Noodles, Eggs and. Creese 
Rice Croouettes 




(over) 



WAR. FOOD ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF DISTRIBUTION 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3, Calif orni 

Telephone Exbrook 838l-Ex,L r 7 



Page 2 - 



BRAISED CELERY \ r ITH LIMA CANS 



S e r v i n g s for 



Ingredients 



Celery 

Butter or substitute 

Cooked Limas 

Water or Bean Stock 

Salt 

Pepper 



25 



2-1/2 Ots. 
4-1/2 os. 
1-1/2 qts. 
1-1/2 qts. 
3/4 °z. 
3/4 t sp . 



50 



5 Qts. 
9 oz. 
3 qts. 
3 qts. 
1-1/2 oz. 
1-1/2 tsp. 



100 



2-1/2 gals. 
1 lb. 
1-1/2 gals. 
1-1/2 gals. 
3 oz. 
1 tbsp. 



Melt shortening in heavy saucepan; cut celery in uniform pieces about l/'2 
inch long and add to the shortening. Cover and simmer slowly 30 minutes 
or until celery is tender, jadd the lima beans, water or beanstock, and 
seasoning and heat until. blended. 



BEEFSTEAK PIE - FAriLY STYLE 



S e r v i n g s f o r 



Ingredients 25 


50 


100 


Butt of Beef (cut in sqs. 5 lbs. 


10 lbs.. .;' 


20 lbs. 


(24 pcs.pr.lb.) 






Potatoes (cut in l/4" slices) 3 lbs. 


6 lbs. 


12 lbs. 


(24 pes. per, lb. ) 






Carrots (cut in 48 pcs.pr.lb.) 1 lb. 


2 lbs. 


4 lbs. 


Onions 2 lbs.. 


4 lbs. 


8 lbs. 


Canned Tomatoes 2 qts. , 


4 qts. 


2 gals. 


Salt 2,055., . 


3-1/2 oz . 


7 oz. 


Pepper 1 tsp. • 


- . 2 tsp. 


1 tbsp. 


Stock 1/2 gal. 
Water 1/2 gal. 


1 gal, 


2 gals. 


1 gal. . . 


2 gals. 


Flour 6 0£. 


12 oz. 


1 lb. - 8 



Place meat and l/3 of the onions chopped fine in stewpot with water and 
stock. Allow to simmer 3 hours or longer. Meantime cook carrots and 
balance of onions (quartered) separately and par boil potatoes. When done, 
drain off water from each, add to the meat, with the tomatoes and seasoning. 
Allow to cook together for a few minutes until thoroughly blended. Meantime, 
make pastry as per standard recipe except that it should be rolled to one- 
eighth inch thickness instead of l/l6th. Stick strips 1 inch wide of pastry 
on upper inside edges of pans. Moisten edges with water after pans are 
filled with meat mixture, cover with pastry. It will require about one 
pound, twelve ounces of pastry for strips and cover of each 25 services. 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



1 



Institutional Feedinc] Manaqe 
Steward s-Chifs-Cooks 



ifol,:'3 No. 22 



May ZB; \9h3 ' 



Although the list is not long, it is expected that we will' ' " 
have more plentiful foods for June than y/e have had in the past 
few months, V^elcome additions to the list are Cabbage and Pu-L^-toep, 
Also, it is anticipated that substantial supplies of locally pro- 
duced fresli vegetables will be available in all of the leading 
markets , 



■ r r r " 



Jtoe 15 - Plentiful Foods 



8 
9 
10 
11 
12. 



Cabbage" 
Potatoes 
Tomatoes 
Onion§' 

AppiQ butter, citrus marmalade, 
jellies, aiid grape, plum, and 
fig jams, 
Dry-mi:j<:. soups 
Try edible peas 
Su^:, flour, grits, and flakes 
Vfheat flour and bread 
I:acaroni, spaghetti, noodles 
'Oatmeal. ' ■ 



(pver) 

WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION-OFFICE OF SUPPLT-COC 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3, California 

Telephone Exbrook 838l-Ex^^4 



t/IEAT_LOAF COLD (Slices 3" x 1-1/2 x l/2") 





S 


e r V i n s s 




Ingredients 


20 


50 


100 


Ground Cooked Kowt 


2 - 


5 lbs. 


10 lbs. 


Oaions, small 


1/2 


1 


2 


Green Peuper 




1 


2 « 


Parlae„ , small bunch 


lA 


1/2 ■ ■ 


■ 1 ■ ' ■ 


Broth .. . , ■ _ v; ". 


1-3/^ cup 


1 qt. 


2 qts. 


Gelatin, 'Pii,in" 


3 tbsp. 


1/2 cup 


1 cup 


Snit 


To Tuste 


To taste 


T«-. taste 



Grind cold leftover meats (all kinds) medium fine. Cook onions^ peppers 
and parsley in broth until done, , strain and use , liquid to mix' wit-h g.^latin 
Kdd to m§at, . l.'ix'Wiell and -place ih. loaf pans in refrigefatoi* until firm. 
Slice and'serve.- • , '' ' ■ --..i ,-. 

■ ' '■• '^.^ ... . ■■!■■■■■ ■■- '''-^ •• '• *•'."' 

■ ' ' TAllALS' L OAF 



' Servings 

Ingredients 20 - 50/- 100 

Yellow Corn I'eal ' 1 lb. .2-1/2 lbs. 5 lbs. 

I'ilk 1 qt. " 2-1/2 qts. 5 qts. 

Butter or substitute 3 tbsp, . l/4 lb. 1/2 lb, 

Oaions, chopped fine 2 Ilcd, ... . "5 laed, 1 0 med. 

Garlic, chopped fine 1 small w.'.' 2 naed, U med. 

Solid Pack Tu.^toes 2 No, 2-1/^ I.-'^IO oah 2 #10 

Corn ''^ ■2"No.' 2-l/^/i:-#10 can 2 #10 

Salad Oii •. ' 1 cup 2~l/2 cups 5 cups 

CooUed Ground -icat 3 cups ' 1-1/2 qts, 3 qts, 

Oi.ives 1 pt. 1-1/4 qts. 2-1/2 qts. 

Eggs, beaten 6 : ' . . 15- . 30 

Chili Powder ; ^ tbsp, ' ' tb 1 cup 1-1/2 to 2 



Cook cornmeal in milk as for cereal^' Me-lt butter add onions and garlic, 
and cook until soft. Add tomatoes, corn and oil. Then add cornmeal 
and other ingredients and bring to a boil. Place in baking pan about 
tvjo inches in_ depth and bake in a moderate 350°F., oven., U5 minutes. 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



nstitutiondPJeedinq Manaqe 
Stevl/arcls-Chefs-Cooks 



Vol. 3 No. 13 



March 26, 19A5 



SPECIAL CCI'PLETE PLATE LUNCH 



Offering the complete plate lunch with the display of posters designed 
to encourage its acceptance has unquestionably pla^red a prominent part in 
educatiiTg the /Imerican public about lielpful daily diets. 

Three recent studies h^.ve been conpleted,~tTJO comparing the diets of 
a cross-section sample of the adult population i^ith a list of essential 
foods recoOTiended by the Bureau of Home Economics of the Department of 
l\griculturo, and the third by an industrial feeding contractor -.jho is serv- 
ing almost 100,000 meals a day. 

The comparison of the data from the survey questionnaires as to food 
consimied on the previous day vdth the essential food lists of the Bureau of 
Home Economics indicated: 



Recommended Daily Diets 

Milk or milk products 

Tom.atoes, citrus fruits, raw greens 

Yellov.i or green vegetables 

Poultry, fish or meat 

Eggs 

Breiid. jor^jscreal 
B\.tter or other fats 



Survey Results 
32^ had none 



23% 



U% 
22% 



This same study also considered the economic status of the people inter- 
vievjed in the survey. 

PERGENTAqE T.ACKIN^r FOOD REQI'IRE11EI\ITS 





Upper 


Middle 


Lower 


Recommended Daily Diets 


Income 


Income 


Income 


liilk or milk products 


26% 


26% 


26% 


Tomatoes, citrus fruits, ravj greens 


21+% 


^6% 


^7% 


Yellov\i or green vegetables • ' 


15% 


17% 


28% 


Poultry, fish or meat 


6% ,. 


^ 7% 


11% 


Bread or Cereal 


3U% 
■ 3% 


38% 
U% 


L,k% 
U% 


Butter or other fats 


13% 


■ 17% 


27% 



... ■ ' , ( ov 

WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF DISTRIBUTION 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, J, Californi 

Telephone Exbrook 8381-Ex,U7 



Page 2 - 



The industi'ial foedjjig contr^^ctor in his studv conducted in six of our 
large '.'est Coast war plaiits vihsre a complete plate lunch vjas available and 
vjell-designed poster ;aaterial is on displ.ay e^ticoari.ging its selectiori as 
contrasted to a la carte iter.is^ indicates the follov.O-ng acceptance of the 
nutritionally balanced plate Imiches by the 100,000 vjho participated; 



PExX'iMTAaE TjaKING NUTRITIONALLY 
ADEQUATE PLATE LUNCH 



Day Shift 



Svjin;^^ Shift G raveyard Shift 



Plant rfl 

" #2 

" #3 

" #4 

" #5 



75%' 
60% 

15% 



60% 

80% 

60% 

Closed 

Closed 

65% 



65% 

Closed 

70% 

Closed 

Closed 

Closed 



The War Food Administration has trained, experienced dietitians to assist 
nanag eraent in the ina-ij^-'uration of such a coraplete plate service as well as 
educational material that can be used in introducing or encouraging its 
acceptance, to the benefit of the individual nutritionally, and, usually 
economically, as such a meal service can be made available more cheaply. 

Fill out and mail the folloiAjing if you are interested in discussing this 
vdth an industrial feeding technician: 



Ca^PANY MAIIE 



ATTENTION 0F__ ^ ^ TITLE 

(Ywur N.:ime) 

YOUR AVERAGE TOT/iL PATRO?JAGE FOR A ZU-UCUR DAY 
ADDRESS 



-7- 



SEND THIS FORI: TO: 

i7.vR FOOD ADiaNISTTl.TIOH 
OFFICE OF SUPPLY — COII^ODITY CREDIT CORPORATION 
INDUSTRIAL FEEDING SECTION 
821 I"-a-::et Street-Room 700 
San Francisco, 3, California 
Telephone E;;.B381'-Ex.44. 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



Institutional Feedinc] MaijiKi^^ 
Stewards-Chefs-CoQiis!! 




Vol. 3 No, 9 



February 26, 19A5 



EGGS CN YOTTR rENU. 



On'=! the 'vaj'-s to stretch "rur meat ration, now that most meat cuts have been 
returned to the ration list, is to use epgs aa a m.eat alternate or as a meat ex- 
tender, Thc-7 are nlentiiul end normt iox^ed . 

Eggs help to pr^note positive ^cod health and should -be included in the daily 
div^io-. Rich in prorein of high nutritive cua].ity, they are also a good source 
of iron in a form ■'.t^ich is readixy aosirailated . They are also a relatively 
rich source of vitamin B2 and a good source of B-j_, niacin, and vitamin A. 

Eg g^ ac alternates cr ..sytenders' for meat; 

I'Vhen usin;^ e^gs as alternates or meat extenders, it is important to have the 
Qibhes Vi/ell flavored ^ served in adequate sized portions, and combined in an ap- 
petising menu,. I'ere are some suggestions: 

Creamed hard-cooked eggs on toast 

Eg 5s a la king viith rice 

Egg croquettes 

Egg cutlets 

Baked ^melet. This may be served r;ith a variety of sauces, 
a.z cheese, tomato, mushrooiii, or Spanish sauce, or may be 
accompanied by strips of crisp bacon, or by a sjiall portion 
of fried ham.. 

Scrambled eggs 

Scrambled eggs ?,'ith tomatoes 

Scr^moled eggs ^jith bits of coo^:ed bacon 

Scr-.r-ioled eggs ■'^lith chopned ham 

Scalloped hard-cocked eg^s and diced ham 

Scalloped hard-joolced eggs and green peas 

Egg so'Jiffle 

Cheese so'iffle 

Ham soiufli; 

Tu-na fish souffle 

Veal souffle 

Spanish eggs T sliced hard-cooked egg vd-th Spanish sauce) 
VJest :;rn-style eggs are scram.bled with ^.reen pepoer, minced onion, 
and a little chopped ham.. The^^ m.ay be served plain in a popu- 
lar hot sand\;ich. 

(over) 

WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF DISTRIBUTION 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3, California 

Telephone Exbrook 838l-Ex,i47 



Page 2 - 



4 



More Egf: Desserts Are In Order 

Food managers who know the workers' food pref erencesare offer- 
ing more of the many nutritious desserts made with eggs. 
Besides making a positive contribution to the food value of 
a meal, egg desserts offer the last course sweetness desired 
by most v/orkers. Try these suggestions for egg desserts: 

Soft custard served over diced oranges 

Apricot whip with custard sauce 

Prune whip with custard sauce 

Sponge cake 

Jelly roll filled with jelly, marmalade, plain 
cream, or lemon meringue filling 

Boston cream pie (plain cake with cream filling 
.or chocolate cream filling). 

Meringue cream pies, such as butterscotch, coconut, 

chocolate, and lemon. 

Chiffon pies made with frozen stravjberries or rasp- 
berries are a flavor treat in mid- 
winter . 

Baked custard 
Baked caramel custard 
Custard pie 
Coconut custard pie 
Soft custard 



Page 3 - 



Belovj are two recipes for egg main dishes. The first is a meat extender, 
the second a meat alternate. 



Scalloped Ham and E^^s 

Servirigs 100 500 

Diced cooked ham 8 Lbs, UO Lbs. 

Hard-cooked eggs, sliced 8 Dozen Dozen 
VJhite sauce made vjith — 

Fat 1 Lb. 8 oz. 7 Lbs. 

Flour 1 Lb. 5 Lbs. 

Kilk. . 2 gals. 10 gals. 

Salt 2 oz. 10 oz.- 

Bread crumbs mixed with 2 lbs. 10 lbs. 

Melted fat 8 oz, 2 lbs. 

Size of portion - 6 ounces 

1, T^ill g'-e^sed baking pans with alternate layers of diced ham, sliced 
hard-cooked eggs, and white sauce. Top \ixth crumbs. 

2. Bake in moderato even at 350^F. for about 30 minutes until the crumbs 
are brovmed* 



(over) 



Page 4 - 



Spanish Qnelet ^ - 

Serving s 100 500 

Egg Yolks 6 Dozen 30 Dozen 

Egg 'Jhites 6 Dozen 30 Dozen 

•7hite sauce made vdth 



Fat 

Flour 

rilk 

Salt 

Paprika 



1 Lb. 8 Oz. 7 Lbs. 

1 Lb. 5 Lbs. 

2 Gals. ^ 10 Gals. 
2 Oz. 10 Oz. 

1 Tbsp. 1 Oz. 



Spanish sauce made vdth —* 

Chopped onion . ^. 8 oz. 2 lbs. 8 oz. 

Fat 8 OS. . 2 lbs. 

' Canned tomatoes , 5 qts» 2-1/2 gals. 

Diced clery 2 Lbs. 10 lbs. 

Green pepper, chopped ti cz, ' 2 lbs. 8 oz, 

Pimiento, chopped 8 6z.". 2 Lbs. 8 oz. 

Salt 2 tbsp. " '4 oz, '..co. 

Pepper 1 tsp. 1-1/2 tbsp. 

Size of portion - 4 0:3. o.melet and 2 02, sauce, 

1. Beat the egg yolks until thick and lemon-colored. 

2. Beat the v;hites until stiff but not dry. 

3. Add the beaten egg yolks to the cooled vjhite sauce, and mix well. 

4. Fold, in the beaten whites. 

5. Fill greased baking pan tvjo-thirds full. 

6. Bake in moderate oven at 325°F. for about 50 ininutes, or until well 

puffed and a delicate brown. 

7. Cook the onion in fat until a light brovm, add to vegetables and sirame> 
until all vegetables are tender. 

8. Cut omelet in squares and serve vdth Spanish sauce. 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



institutional Feedinq Manaqers 



^ Stew/ards-Chefs-Cooks 



Vox. 3 No. 26 



June 



RAPID I'EW CHECKER ON I'-EAT POINT USAC 



L 1 B R A R Y 

a^R^l^^ SERIAL RECORD 
■ OCT lr l94.5. 



U. S. DEPARTMENT OF ASRlCULTURt 

IThcn the two months' point allotment for neat, fats |.nd oils is re- 
ceived,, it is well to deduct the estimated nuiuber of points needed for butter, 
fa-i"s' .arid -oils. Then the balance of the points, for meat purchases, can b^. : .. 
pro-rated over- the allotment period. 

;Ienu changes necessary to keen within this point allotment may be de- 
termined rapidly by checking; menus' ag&lnst the*'check list on the reverse side 
of this siieet. Too many check marks tov;ard the top of the list indicate that 
a shift to items of lovjer point value farther down the list is necessary. Mot 
all items listed are available at all times, and this information is subject 
to change and based on OPA Point Chart for June, 1945 . 

Calculations as to the number of red points per serving are on the 
basis of :' • • • • ■ 



Number of Ounces 



A - 5 
3 - A 
3 - U 
8 
3 

3 - U 
3-1/2 

3-l/'2 



Items 



Raw V^eight of Steak 



Coolced 
u 



Cutlets or Chops 
Stews 

C.tails, Spareribs 
Ground h'eats 
Glandular Feats 
Sausage 
Carved I'eats 



Use T-hi.-. Chart For 



1, h'enu planninf^; 

2» Ordering substitutes 'iien items desired 

are not available; 
3. Checking previous week't; menu to fi.nd rapidly 

why point usage was excessive. 

(Over) 



WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION-OFFICE OP SUPPLT-COC 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3, California 

Telephone Exbrook 858l-Ex,4A 



Page 2 - 



RAPID I-Ei^J CHECKER ON !EAT POI^ 



^.ISAGE 



(Bi^sis Juiie Pc)I,at Chart) 
1945 



Beef 



Lamb 



.-JJbrI 1 Bark 



I V E POINTS OR I" 0 R 



Roast-rib ( ) 

Steak-Porterhouse ( ) 

T-Bcne ( ) 

Club ( ) 

Sirloin ( ) 

Tenderloin ( ) 



PER 



R V I N G 



Roast-Sirloin 

Roimd 
Steak-cubed 
flank 
Swiss 



Dried Beef 



THREE "0 FIVE POINTS PER 

ChoDs-loin 



( ) Choos-loin 
( ) Roast-leg 

( ) 
( ) 
( ) 

T yJ 0 T 0 T FI R E E 



Frankfurters 
Thuringer 
Polish Sausage 
Stews 
Liver 

HaiTiburg ?r-steak 
Brisket 
Short ribs 



.( ) 
ONE 

( ) 

( ) 

( ) 

( ) 

( ) 

( ) 

( ) 

f ) 



( ) 



Chons-rib ■ 
TO T 0 



S E -R V I N G, . 

Touuerloin ( 
( ) Ru«st-le^ ( 
t-leg ) ( ) Loin C 

Loxii ) ( ) _ Steak-H-r ( 
S?ai-oribs ( 
■ B-itt-smoked( 
Choya ( 
I. ^ 111 PER SERVING 

Cox let -L'.;:; 
( ) Chops-rib ( ) Shoulder( 



POINTS PER SERVING 



Choos-shoulder ( ) 



Ronst Sjioulder . ( ) 
Sxevjs 
Patties 



( ) 
( ) 



C^'.t let-leg 

Sr.oulder 

Veal- birds ( ) 

L:uver- ■ " - ( ) 

Roast-S!;Ouicler( ) 

Stevis ■ • ■ ( ) 

P-tties' ■ ( ) 

Breast ( ,) 



( ) Hocks ( ; 

( ) R(j-bt-Snldr( 
SanSf-o>e ( 

B::GOn ( 

Sivlt Pork ( ; 



0 N S - H A L 



0 



0 N E POINT PER SERVING 



Hamburger Lonf 

w. bread 
Tojigue 
Heart 

S'.'.'cct breads 
PasLc P-'Onnots 
vj. r.eat S'luce 



Breast 

Heart 

Liver 

Sreet breads 



( ) 
( ) 
( ) 

( ) 



Tongue 
H^art 

S-.'CQtbreads' 



( ) 

(■ ) Heart 
( ) Liver 
( ) 



UNITED STATES DEPARTIENT OF AGRICULTURE 

' JAR FOOD ADKINIS'^RATIO!'! 
OFFICE OF SUPPLY — Ca3!0DITY GRIlDIT CORPORATION 
S2i I^-r:cet St - Room 700 
' Sou Fr-.acincu, 3» Cv-lii'ornia 

FAC T SHEET OM INDUSTRIAL FEEDING 

0bjj2cWvc: ' Th'.; oojcOv^ve of the Ir.ru;itri«i Fcecinj Pre nr. is to- r-^oist h.^Mi 
i-rlwi rood services in providing adequate food on the job for industrial •.. .r-> 
ers, to protect their health and to assure highest production efficiency. 

Pr-Q-x-^-so R:r-.ort : Prior to tice T<(£.r approxijiiately 2,000,000 \:vorkers in manufac-' 
turing plants could obtain food on the job. Tod--- 7,000,000 manufacturing 
workers use inplant feeding facilities, as shown in a WA cirv^j . It Ir -.rTi- 
mated 2,000,000 more are served in other industries. The trend is tov;ard the 
more permanent type of facility - the cafeteria. Of all plants having feeding 
facilities, about half now use cafeterias, a decided increase during the past 
•year. 

'T'he survey indicates that in-plant feeding is generally accepted in large 
plants. Of all plants employing more than 1,000 -vvor-'.ers, 95 P^^ cent have 
some type of food facilities. About 30 per cent of all plants employing fewer 
than 250 V'jorkers have facilities. Approximately four out of every five worker: 
are emploj'-ed in plants with in-plant foeding, yet only about half of all vjorke; 
in plants \^dth facilities are acco;niT.odate^.,even though the fecilities are ofte) 
operated during throe full shifts, y^bout half of all industrial workers bring! 
home-packed limches. 

Millions of workers still do not obtain the quality and quantity of food ncedeo 
to maintain optimumi health and working' efficiency. More new facilities should 
be installed, existing facilities expanded, and operation methods improved. 

Accept:.nce by m.anagqmont and labor ; In a recent survey made by a private con- 
cern, 100 of the 101 firms questioned stated that their in-plant feeding ser- 
vices would continue in the post-wr.r years. 

I,eaders of industry and labor throughout the coumtry have indorsed industrial 
feeding because it has so positive an influence on the health and welfare of 
the worker, because it helps to incronse production ef f iciencj'-, and because, it 
creates better labor relations. 

Industrial feeding todaj- pl-'ys an import'tnt role in our national wrrtime food 
program. The acceptance by industi-y and labor indicates thnt industrial f^;ed- 
ing will continue to expand in post-war yenrs, .and provide a vast market for 
food. In this way, industrial feed*, .g vii.ll continue to be fin important factor 
in our national peacetime food program. 

Row the Program 'Operates ■. , " ■ ' 

The industri-:l feeding specialist ; A staff of industrial feeding specinlists :' 
the ^■'ashington and Regional Offices of the yjn.r Food Administration is avail-iblc- 
to management for assistance on industrial feeding problems. These speci-ilists 
make on-the-ground surveys of plnnts' needs and Submit recommendations to meet 
those needs. The service is provided without cost, upon written request from i 
management. These requests should be directed to 'Tar Food Administration rogion 
al office . ' ■ . 

(over; 



PagG 2 - 

The industrial feeding specialist -^m. help yjith many problens ■■'.rising in 
iation to; ■ ••■ ^ 

1. Instail'ition or e:'p' ,'ision of fncilities 

2. vipB c.-.ri.^'icntion for m.-iterial and equipr.Gnt priorities 

3. E-Tmient oper-ition 
A. I.-cnu plaaning. 

5. Food preparsition ■'^nd cons erv<?,t ion. 

6, Rccr^itin^ r.nd training food service workers, 

7t M'iurition education programs, for better, health and 

efficiency of workers. 
S, Obtaining expanded consuraption of foods in relative aburi '-.n?-: 

The services of Vf- r Fcod Ac"'iiiistration go beyond the pl-^.nts '-when necess- , 
In cooperation with tvi. -nd local nutrition committees, ■Tr.r Foco Ad-iniotr-- 
tion assistance is given to Luprove public eating places in congested vjar .".rGa 
and to provide nutrition educrtion for ?;ar workers and th^ir families, C bur. 
■jf comaierce and other business and civic groups, the press, and radio oft.-in' 
cooperate vith ^•''ar Foud A'''^'ir-.i.Ttr-tion and nutrition committees in sponsorip.g 
food demonstrations, nutrition campaigns, meetings, and courses outside tho-- 
plant for th^e benefit of \vorkers' j.\ .'.lies. 

H ovj industrial feeding programs are started ; 

Industrial feeding programs are institr.ted in industrial plants by manage:-;ent, 
but the action may also result fi'C' v. efforts of plant employees, interested 
civic groups, coj-nmunity organizations, or the v;.'ir pro.-'urement agencies. 

Inter-^agency r elat ionshio : To Lmpl' ment the progr'imi and eliminate possible 
duplication, an Inter-Agencj'- Coiu-it": .e on Food for ^"orkers ivas cre-fted i.i 19^3 
Membership ■ consists cf represent' tiv.vs of '/PB, '"'^'C, 'Jar Department, r.Jayy H-. - 
partment, I^- ritiae .Go -r.ission, Uf;PHo , OPf'i, -.'no 'TEA. Under the I;iter-A;:c«;;v 
.A;"(nJc-.r.o.»t, '"/FA is3 responsible for pro^^-ram coordination and all technical ser- 
vice, '"FA Xi-n ucrtif ies the need fo.'^' construction materials .-ind equipment for 
in-plant feeding operations, thus speeding ''TB ""jrioi-ities . 

Thci-c io V. national L.v.bar At isorj'- Gommttee to' the Inter-A-ency Gommittee, 
This comiiiittee, consisting of representatives of the national labor organina- 
tions, helps to formulate tl:e program for., labor ' s cooperation in industri'-l 
feeding,: Food com/riittees have been encouraged in plants by thie '^./.r Prodvictioi* 
Drive Comjn-ittee and ^TB Labor-I'anager -:nt ComTiittees, These food committees 
encourage in-pla.nt feeding service improvements, better use of available faci- 
lities and food, and nutrition education programs for ivorkers. 

These materials are available free through' the. Regional Office: 

Planning Ivleals for Industrial '.'orkers , 'IFG-2 ' , 

i;akin.g the '!ost of Moats in Indu.^trial Feeding • 

Saving Sugar in Industrial Feedin.c 

Industrial F^/L-diag ManageJment , N7 G-1A . , 

Inuu^t ria l Nutrition Sf-rvipe -Issu^d ronthly-for employee publications, individu 

;.ls r.i.u .-^roups promoting nutrition education. 
Serving Many - Issued monthly to bring food news to food managers in incu^tri^' 

plants-, restaurants, hotels and- hospitals . 
Your employees Are No Better Ti.an, ^ 'r?. Food T^ioy Eat , ^TFC-V 
Are Y ou Hit By . ♦ .At?&v«;tgc-ism, , .Accidents. . ,Lotv Production. .Labor Tux-iiover 
P^^ots,r£ - P-j-4'u4.ets - T--.ble Tent G: ri:& - .f!G Lvriiils to promote better nutr\ti^ ' 
among workers. 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



Institutional Feedinq Manaqe 
Stewards-Chefs-Cooks 





\S£ ! 


\ 

Vol. 3 No. 55 


1 1 

■ ARTMENT OF AGiAlCULTURE 


1 February 19, 1945. 



DT-S3^RTS USING STTgAR SUBSTITHTES , STRKTCH:CRS AND 
' ' ~ LITTLE SKORTET^ING 



^'Jith the rec~-rj.t reduction of the sugar allotr.ent md shortening on the 
ration list, mony r.'ill find it necessary to i.-;atch closely the amount of 
sugar available so as to use it to the best advantage. Belovj are of- 
fered a fev.i suggestions for stretching the sugar and shortening set aside 
for dessert making. 

Custard type desserts may be s-veetened vjith h-oney or maple syrup. 

Baked Indian Pudding and steamed fruit puddings m.ake use of molasses. 
Apples, peaches and pears baked with honey are delicious. Add a little 
lemon to improve the flavor. 

One of our most versatile desserts is gingerbread. It, too, is made 
vjith molasses and may be served i/jith apricot sauce or lemon sauce. 

Sponge cakes require less sugar than butter cakes and m.ay be made into 
rolls vjith jelljr, lem.on or chocolate filling. Cakes requiring little 
or no icing save sugar. 

Shortcakes and desserts made with biscuit dough offer a great variety 
and are easy on shortening and sugar, 

Froz-en fruits and berries are often packed ■."ith some sugar, requiring 
little or none in addition for serving. 

Fruit desserts nay be easily made from canned fruits. Take peach halves, 
put a rosette of meringue in center of each, sprinkle rith chopped nuts, 
and bake. Pears may be dene in the same Tva,y. 

Fill cent ;r of r;uar ^Ith cr-ished ginger in s^rrup, cover v.'ith meringue 
and bake. Sugar syrup m.ay be used in meringue in place of sugar. 

Frozen fruits used in pudding, such as blanc m.ange, require little 
sugar and add color to the dessert display. 

(over) 

WAE FOOD ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF DISTRIBUTION 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3j California 

Telephone Exbrook 838l-Ex,U7 



Coffoe left in tho ui-n should be utij.'' zed in naid.nf' coffee jcll;^ or 
coff:;e niarjliarallovj "..'hip. Nc/j that mcs, people are limited to one cup 
of coffee per nea.1, th^j coffee ilavored lesserts have become good 
sellers. 

Baked anples may be \aried by fllllti? the ceiiter cavity -vvith chopped, 
dried fruit a no. nuts, .'oinci^imsat , cr charge nian>alade. 

Another apple dessert: Slicvjd apples ^►■ith syi-up in baking nan, covered 
■'■■jith cianatucn pin vj!if..els nicide of bicuit dou^^h, Batred, served -.jith fruit 
or raisin sauce. . 



Servinf^s 


20_. ^ 


^0 


io_o^_ 


I'olasses 


2-1/4 Cups 


3 pts. 


1-1/2 qts. 


Short ening 


^,-l/2. Oz, 
3 


15 oz. 


1-7/8 lbs. 


Eggs 


7 


15 


Sour rilk 


2 Pts. 


1-l/A Cups 


5-3/4 qts. 


Gi'aham Flour 


12 O2; . 


1 lb. 14 oz. 


3-3/4 lbs. 


H i^e Fl.our 


IO-.I/2 O2. 


1 Ib.lOjrCE. 


3-]./4 lbs. 


i.?i-;.Ln-:i (Seeded) 


9 Os. 


1-1/2 lbs. 


3 lbs . 


O0,V:'. 


A -1/2 tsp. 


l/I, Cue Scant l/2 Cud Sc 


Cj n I T,'-,;-. ( Ground) 


2 tbsp. 


1/4 ^:uD 


1/2 Gup 


('lo '-..^^ f'Cr'^und) 


1 tsp. 


1-l/p tbsp. 


2^ tbsp. 


Grra-' t;d Imlv' mez 


1 tsp. 


1-J ''S tbsp. 


2i tbs^-. 


Y.ix graV-ani ficur, v-^hite flour. 


soda, spices and 


r.-i.T sirs 0 ' 'ix b«aten 


^g.l^. nil;: ::Mid incd.-'&He5. G^-.l? 


i.ne mivturv;.? .ird f 


= d 1 me' ted si 


or t ening 


find; be !c ' i.o^-oayhly. Four hit 


3 1-1/2 qt. .no Ids 


■,'vlth tightly 


fitted' 



butterrd ov rs, a id ste^m 2-1/2 hours. Serve 4 oz, to an order Vvith- 
1-1, 4 ^z* of foc-jpy or lei.icn sauce on top. 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



Institutional Feeding Manoqers 
j^^-^ Stewards-Chefs-Cooks 



Vol. 3 Mo. 10 



April 30, 1945 



THE PLATE LUKCH IN IN-PIAVT FSEDB^Q 



; DV^in^ISI'vO AMD 



PROIDTICH 



"'lord of Kouth" advertisin;?; is ens of the iiiost valuable means of advertis- 
ing good plate lunches. Good food sells itself in this v^ay. However, pro- 
motional devices can be used effectively for stimulating greater interest. 

1. Prominent I'^enu Displa .y - 

Customers are often not .^rood rign readers, large eye-catcher 
signs are most effective for p layin^^ up the plate lunches, 
whether in cafeterias or in it -plant feedin?, mits. •Then the 
plate lunch is served aloni'-; -Nith a variety of a la carte items, 
it should be planned to allo^; for some variety of clioice. It 
may be listed as follo'/'s: 

Entree 

Choice of :Veg stable. Potato, or second Vegetable 
Salad 

Bread and Spread 

Dessert 

Beverage 



II. Training oi 



Cv*:unter Pei'sonnel - 



An ey.periencod counter opei^atcr can push practically any item, on a 
cafeteri.a stenmtable. It is part of his stock-in-trade, and his 
technique in this respect may be highly developed. Since most in- 
dustrial feeding operations use vjojnen v.dthout such bacl-cground, . sales 
education is necessary in prom-oting the plate lunch. Have your 
steam table -.voman say to the customer, "The Plate Lunch, sir? It's 
ver^'' goodl". Sr-o should also knovj what other items, such as salad 
and special dessert, go v;ith the hot food. At the salad and dessert 
counter, the counter women should offer their v;ares as part of the 
plate lunch. The customer may not read signs, but he r;ill get the idea 
of the plate lunch, if it is "talked up" hy counter oersonnel. Try 
calling your counter personnel together for shiort 5-10 minute talks 
before service begins. (over 
WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF DISTRIBUTION 
Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3, Calif orni 

Telephone Exbrook 858l-Ex,l4.7 



Pa^e 2 - 



III. Frofr.ot icn throiv:::'n Fo raTi en Groups - 

Very oft-jri the foreman can be influential in "talkiiv^ up" the 
plate lunch anong the eiiiployees under his supervision. ^Tnether 
it is possible to get a fev.' minutes time in regulc.rl;; schoduled 
meetings, or by individual contact of foremen, the purposes nnd 
values of the plate lunch should be called to the foremen's at- 
tention. He can also be helpful in developing ail appreciation 
amoni^ his employees of the problems of food supply, 

IV. Prom.otion throughi Pl ant P-per - 

Ti.e appeal through this sourca can be made on the basis of health. 
V.Tnen the plate lunch is instituted, announcement in -^h^' plant paper 
is desirable. 



o 

a; 

1 

UJ 
C/3 



LO 
CD 



To sustain interest as time goes by, the editor r.ay be r;illing to 
use "sriaps'' of various employees enjoying the plate lunch both in 
the cafeteria and the plant. Emphasis on "i vjell ba].anced meal can 
-b€*-4'*-^ated to the rjork p-yrforiacd liy the emp],oyce , Copy acccm.panying 
s'-gih I' snaps" might be: 



1 i 



■ 'UJ 

•X: 



test pilot keeping in condition for his e::a-^ting job 
wjlth plenty of r.hat it takes, 

A! ten time Red Crocs blood d onor ]-:eGns hi'aself in condi- 



on vdth ^^ell ba?.a:.c„d r 
2 ffcrvjard to his ne.yt vis 11 
<=> t' ) this '.'ar service. 



3 — is already loolzing 
make his vital contribution 



A' foundry vjorker keeps liis muscles tuned, up and his tem- 
• perature cooled do^vn v;ith the plate lunch special of the 
day. 



toD-notchi in h-^r "man's" job vith a olate lunch fromL the plant 



4. A fork truck oper>'-'.tor (v;oman) keeps her health and efficicincy 
top-not chi ill 
mobile cart. 

Promotion through Pvifixlc Ardress System 



V1 



Brief tei: word announce.ments preceding lunch iaay be helpful. 
Einnloyee Cc.itests r- . . ■ ■ 



One unusually.' successful^ fe...ding operator has. stimulated interest 
j.n olate lunches by using merius submitted by plant '-'orlc^rs and acknow- 
ledging credit to the vjorker, Auy activity such as this .teaches the 
v.orker some of the food sorA'ict; pr-oblem.s, — as contust rules provide 
that suggestio.ns must me^jt good nutrition standards; must bu practical 
for preparation and Sr;rviiig in the kitcnen ■.aid cafeteria, and m^ust be 
planned from readily available foods. 



Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 



Institutional Feedinq Ma 
' / Stewards-Chefs-Coo 




Vol. 3, No. 27 



July 9, 19/^5 



SALADS FOR INDUSTRIAL WORKERS 



Salads have a special appetite appeal in raidsumnor, because they are cool and 
crisp.' Industrial feeding managers will find this a good time to feature salads 
on the menu. Cold plates and protein-rich salads should be available on the a 
la carte menu as an alternate to hot entrees, and they may be used occasionally 
as the main dish on the special lunch. 

Fresh fruit and vegetable salads may be used frequently as accompaniments to the 
main course of the special lunch in place of a cooked vegetable. A fresh fruit 
salad may be used now and then, instead of a dessert to vary the menu and to 
save the scarce sugar supply. 

Using Fruits and Vegetables in Abundant S uppl y 

Four useful salad materials are expected to be in abundant supply in July-- ' 
cabbage, carrots, tomatoes, and peaches. 

Carrots are among the most versatile of the salad vegetables. The flavor blends 
with th-^t of many other vegetables and fruit sj they are colorful; and they may 
be prepared readily by mechanical means. ' ' 

Shredded carrots may be combined with other ma.terials in salads, for example: 
Carrot, cabbage, and green pepper; carrots and raisins; carrots and diced apples; 
carrots and diced pineapple. 

Carrot sticks adri crispness and vitamin value to cold plates and vegetable salads. 

Cabbag e lends itself to use alone or in many combinations. Cole slaw is one of 
the most popular salads when it is crisp, well-seasoned, and served cold. 

Shredded cabbage and carrots; cabbage and diced tomatoes; cabbage and diced red 
apples; and cabbage and diced pineapple are combinations that are well liked. 
Shredded cabbage also may be used in place of diced celery in meat and fishsalcds. 

Keep shredded cabbage chilled, and add the salad dressing just before serving to 
prevent the cabbage from wilting. 

Tomatoes are probably the most universally popular of the salad vegetables. Sliced 
tomatoes T^ith lettuce, endive, or watercress; diced tomatoes with cabbage, celery, 

(over) 

WAR FOOD ADMINISTRATION-OFFICE OF SUPPLT-COC 

Industrial Feeding Section-Room 700-821 Market Street San Francisco, 3, California 

Telephone Exbrook 838l-Ex,tA 



Page 2 



or leafy greon vegetr.blos; tomato wedges with slicod cucambcrs, or sliced cauli- 
flowc-r; and wholo tomatoes stuffed with chicken, fish, or egg salad or uith 
cottage cheese are only a few of the many tomato salads. 

Pe££ll£S may be combined with other fruits- in mixed fruit salads. Grange, pine- 
ea-ple, and pe-,ch; pineapple, pear, and peach; orange, diced cantaloup, and 
slicod peach; and pineapple, brnana, and peach are attractive and pleasing 
salad combinations. 



Gfil i ng _ for 3 a 1 ad at o rial s 

Deterioration in the flavor and condition of fresh fruits and vegetables begins 
almost as soon as they are picked. Refrigeration has been used to retard the 
spoilage of fresh produce during transportrticn and distribution. Recently 
another protection has been provided by food distributors in the application of 
a \rax coating to certain fruits. vVaxing limits the amount of air that comes in 
contact rith the fruit, the r- te of moisture evaporation, and has been shown to 
be effective in preserving the vitam.in C content, i/faxing is at present most 
widely- used on oranges. 



At the industrial feeding establishment the care of salad materials should begin 
when the food is received, ^fter it has been checked for cuality and condition 
it should immediately be put into the refrigerator. The temperature for the re- 
frig-^rrtion of salad vegetabl<js should be about 4-0" F. Fruits which require 
further ripening should be held outside of the refrigerator at room temperat^ire 
and checked frequently until they reach prime ripeness. 

Preparing^ Salad Materials 

Lettuce .cuo^^. £ rom_^he ad IgttiTce - -Cut out center core, run cold water at a 
fairly good force into the open center and gently separate the leaves. 

C el e r;-^ c ■ '_r 1 s_- -3c n ib with vegetable brush and remove discolorations, cut cross- 
ways into /4-inch lengths, and then make two or three lengthwise cuts at one 
end, Place in iced v;atwr in the refrigerator until the ends curl, then drain 
off the water. 

Carrots--Cut in small enough pieces to be eaten easily. Strips cut lengthwise 
of the carrot keep crisp when chilled. 

Cauliflower --Cut or break into flowerlets or slice across the flovjerlets. 

Cucumbers --Slice peeled or unoeeled, dice, or cut in long wedges. Cucumbers 
and other vegetables should not be so-ked in salt water or in vinegar. 

Turnips and rutabagas— Dice or cut in long strips or slices. 

Celerx_cabbage~-Cut in 3/A inch slices across the stalk. 

Endive and wat er ere s s— ^'Jash and trim carefully to remove discolored leaves 
and foreign mate^rial. 

Cabbage— Shred in a mechanical chopper or slicer, or by hand. Cut rather 
than crush the vegetable into shreds just fine enough to be eaten with case. 



Page 3 



Melong — (l) Sopnrr.te the- edible part from the rind and dice into 3/4.-inch 
cubes, or (2) cut the melon in half, roniove seeds, and cut the flesh into 
br.lls, using French ball cutter. 

Peaches --Place oeaches in a. colander and dip into hot vrater until the skin 
is loosened. Chill v;ith r^mning cold T-atcr before removing the skin. Slice 
peeled Freestone peaches through the flesh of the fruit to the seed, hold- 
ing the peach together until cuts have boon racdo all the way around. Then 
in a tv/isting motion, slip the peach slices free fron the stone. 

Cut fru it — To. avoid th^ broTvnini^ of the fruit tissue during the preparation, 
pour V. solution of citrus fruit ' juice or of pineapple juice over the fruit, 
iinothcr method of prcventimj discoloration of fresh fruits is to use a sol- 
ution of ascorbic acid, in the proportion of l/3 ounce to 1 gallon of water. 



POST ThllSS RULES IN THE S ALAD SECT ION \ , , 

Rules for Prep -.rin!? Salads 

1. Use sound fresh fruits and ver^otables for salad making. Choose fruits 
at their prime ripeness for fine flavor and color. 

2. Begin preparation as near serving time as possible. 

3. Have good tools, such as a clean vegetable brush, sharp knives, and 
special cutting boards, and keep them in good condition for salad 
preparation. 

/+, V«ash salad materials' with special care since the foods are entcn raw. 

5. Place vegetables that need freshening in very cold or iced vrater, only 
until crisp. Do not place sliced or diced vegetables in water. Drain 
vegetables well before using them. 

6. Chop or cut salad materials into pieces of uniform size and' take care in 
cutting and chopping' vegetabj.es not to crush them. 

7. Handle prepared salad materials gently. Toss nixed salads together' 
lightly. . 

8. .arrange the salads neatly on chilled plates, using an assembly line 
method for speed. 

9. Add salad dressings to salads Just before serving them since dressings 
tend to wilt th^ vegetables. _ • 

10. Keep salad materials and finished salads refrigerated at all times ex- 
cent during actual handling. . . 



(over) 



Page 4 Special L unch M enu s for Ju ly 



1. 

Frnnkfurter 

Croainod nov; potatoes 

Cruola c:ibbare 

Enriched bre-^.d '-dth buttor or 

fortified nargarine 
Fresh raspberry roll 
Beverage 



3. 

Lanb sten with vegetables 

Spiced beet salad 

Vi/hole-whoat br^^ad wdth butter or 

fortified margarine 
Fresh peach and oatmeal cookies 
Beverage 



2. 

Salad plate: 

Toraato stuffed uith cottage cheese 

Marinated vegetable salad (oooked 
peas, carrots, lima beans) 

Potato chips 
Enriched rolls rith butter or fortified 

margarine 
Raisin bread pudding 
llilk 

4. 

Cream of tomato soup 
Stuffed egg salad 
8ole Slav; 

VJhole-v;heat rolls with butter or forti- 
fied margarine 
Cherry pie 
Milk 



5. 

Fried fish with tart'ir sauce 
Parsleycd potatoes 
Baked whole tomatoes 
Enriched bread with butter or 

fortified margarine 
Orange sherbet 
Beverage 

7. 

Scrambled eggs 

New potatoes in jackets 

Fresh buttered spinach ' 

Whole-wheat bread with butter or 

fortified margarine 
Cottage pudding with fresh fruit sauce 
Milk 

9. 

Baked macaroni and cheose 
Buttered broccoli 
Sliced tomato sal'^.d 
Whole-wheat bread with butter or 

fortified margarine 
Frosted cup cake 
Milk 



6. 

Pot roast of beef 

Browned new potatoes 

Carrot and celery salad 

Enriched broad with butter or fortified 

m-^rgarine 
Fruit cup 
Milk 

8, 

Ham salad 
Sliced cucum.bors 
Potato chips 

Enriched rolls with butter or fortified 

margarine 
Poach" cobbler 
Milk 

10. 

Cold pressed veal loaf 
Baked potatoes 
Buttered green peas 

Enriched bread vdth butter or fortified 

margarine 
Bakod custard vath maple syrup 
Milk 



11. 12. 

Baked fish fillets with lemon sauce Broiled lamb patties 

Maslied potatoes Creamed novi potatoes 

Tomato, cucumber, and green onion salad Nev; beets and greens 

Enriched bread with butter or fortified IJhole-wheat bread with butter or forti- 

m.argarine fied margarine 

Fruit gelatin Jolly roll 

Beverage Beverage 



