Historic, Archive Document 

Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 




SERVING MANY 



Food news for food managers in industrial 
p I ants, restau rants, hotels,, and hospitals 



IP, S. DEFARTISHT OF AGRICULTURE 
HIODUCTION & MARKETING ADinNISIIiATION 



Vol, Kc. U7 



January 5,j 



Food Nev;s 

Among the foods expected to be abundant in January, throughout the country^ are 
roasting 'chickens and .foivl, heavy to::i turkeys, cabbage, w.hite potatoes, oranges, 
and grapefruit. 

Civilian supplies of -Choice asi^ ^'0^^d gi^ades of be#f , especially of rib roasts 
and steaks, v;ill be liruited by T^ie set-aside ord?r reserving JO percent of these 
grades of beef 'for the railitary forces.- • . 

Snri che^j Flour an d Bread 

Supplies of breakfast cereals ai;d ■■(heat flour are plentiful and industrial feed- 
ing managers should be discriminating in their selection of these product's. 
?Jhole-grain cereals and breads cc.jtain valuable rainerals and vitarains and should 
be included regjlarly in cafeteria breakfast and luiicheon menus. 

Man\r persons prefer end eat -white bread and highly milled cereals, froia which 
most of the vitarains and minerals have been reraoved. The food buyer can aid in 
improving the diets of those oersons by ourchasing enriched broad, enriched or 
restored cereals, and by using enriched fl'our for cooking eaid baking. These 
products cost little or no more and the" color and. flavor are not affected, but 
their nutritive value is improved greatly. 

The national e nr icxirnont program was inaugurated in i9[i.l and provides for- the 
enricriment of v^/hito flour and broad vdth those nutrients largely removed, in 
milling. The addition of thiamin (vitamin B] ) , riboflavin (vitamin Bp), niacin, 
and iron_ in specified amounts to v;hito flour and bread is required, and the ad- 
dition of calcium and viteiain D"i3 recom;nonded ibut optional. 

Flour is enriched by feeding a controlled amount of the onriobiient mixture con- 
tinuously into the mill stroaia. . ' . . . ; . . 

Bread may bo enriched in one of tJireu vv'aysj * 

1. Making it f rom onriche-d flour .■ 

(over) 



Industrial Feeding Division, 321 Harkot Stroe.t, San Francisco 5* Calif. 




2, Adding a vitamin-mineral wafer to the Tiix. The vvafcrs aro mads to rive 
the desired enricliricut to IOC ;;:^our.Gs o? flour and to fractional amounts. 

3. Using higii-vitaninized yeast. 

The nutrients added to enriched flour, bread, and cereals are those in v/hich 
-vorhors' diets as a v.'holo are inadequately supplied. The inclusion of noro 
whole -grain products in the nenu and the use of enriched flour and bread is a 
practical iT.eans of improving the dietaries and health of industrial workers. 

Brea kfast to iJork On 

Too many v;orkers begin the day with little or no breakfast. This may be because 
thoy arise late and are in a hurr^'-, have a long trip to v/ork, or have no one to 
prepare breakfast. One reason that a v/orker's breakfast is omitted or is inade- 
quate is because he does not realise the relationship of a good breakfast to 
his health and efficiency. 

Food service managers liave a challenge to counteract the habit of no breakfast 
or of an inadequate one, Thoy should tell the Gtor;; of "bettor lereakf asts" to 
the v.'orkers by oosters, table-tent cards, articles in the plant paper, talks, 
and personal interviews. 

The most effective stimulus to \iTorkors to eat better breakfasts is to provide 
breakfast service at the plant. If food is available in the plant cafeteria at 
breakfast time, and is v.'elir-prc'^arod and quickly served, many ivorkcrs v/ill take 
advantage of this opportunity to eat befove they (^:o to -vork , f 

The breakfast service m.ay be simple and the menu limited but it should: .. 

Provide aenotizing and nutritious foods such as* 
Citrus fruits and ;iuice3 and tomato ;;uice 
Whole-grain .and enriched cereals v\dth milk 
Eggs 

Enriched anid x'.'hole -v; ho at toast 

Coffee 

Milk 

Serve foods that are cooked to order or prepared 

on a staj^gered schedule. 
Display foods on a, convenient neatly arranged counter. 
Provide quick, efficient service. 

Mental alertness and muscular efficiency remain at a higher level during the 
morning liours if v/ork.ers eat an. odequate' breakfast. Dr , Haggard and Dr. Greenburg 
1/ point out that: "n'igh n'jscular efficiency is the objective and measurable 
a"ccompaniment of a sub ^- ,.■ eliv.. feeling of well-being and vigor. The rise and fall 
of this efficiency is correlated also v/ith the rise and fall of oroductivity 
among factory oeeratives performing manual tasks." And to quote'? again ; "Our 
findings indicato that diminished produc tivi-ty heretofore attriliited to fatigue 
may i n r e a 1 i ty be d i c 1 0 r y . " 

A study mad: in an ordnance depot in 19U3 shov/od that tlie greatest number of 
accidents occurred in the morning hours bet-»veen 11:00 a.m. and noon, and that an 
important reason vf..s that fev; of the xvorkers had oat-;;n an adequate breakfast. 



1/ Haggard M. D . , IIoTvard W. and Greenburg 1.;. D., Leon A. - "Diet for Physical 
Efficiency," How li-ven. Conn. Yale University Press, 1935' 



Pago 5 

Cooking Chickens 

Ror.sting chickens and older fowl will be plentiful this winter. Industrin.l feed- 
ing managers can use the older fowl o.dvrjitagcous ly for stov/ing, braising, and ex- 
tended dishes lilcc chicken aiid noodles, creamed chicken, and chicken potpie. 

Observe those rules v\/hen cooking chickens* 

1. Cook at a moderate heat so the flesh v;ill bo juicy, tender, and evenly cooked 
to the bone . 

2. Vary tho cooking method according to the age and fatness of the bird. Lean, 
mature birds are suitable for braising. Old fowl need long slow cooking by 
moist heat such as stewing or steajning. 

Poultry is ver^.- perishable. Keep uncooked poultry refrigerated. Chill cooked 
poultry quickly, keep it cold, and use it soon after it is cooked. 

Most plant cafeteria managers buy chickens by "dressed weight" or undrawn with 
head and feet left on. V/hcn tho entrails and the head and feet arc removed, the 
"drawn weight" of tho bird v/ill be about one-fifth less than the dressed weight. 



Special Lunch Menus for January 

These menus suggest tho use of foods in abundant supply which are indicated by 
asterisks . 



1. 

P.oast laxab 

Oven-browned potatoes* 

Buttvrvjd broccoli 

E-iriched broad Y.dth butter or 

fortified margarine 
Sliced oranges* with custard sauce 
BGV,:rago 

3. 

Braised chicken* 

Mashed potato-^ s* 
Butt.. rod green beans 
Enriched rolls with butter or 

fortified margarine 
Deep dish apple pie 
Eilk 

5. 

Beef stev/ lA'ith potatoes*, onions, 
carrots 

Sliced orange* sal'-'d on loaf lettuce 
Enriched bread v/ith butter or fortified 

margarine 
Yv'arm gingerbread v/ith v; hipped cream 
Milk 



2. 

Chili con carne 

Baked Hubbard squash 

Iviixod green salad 

Virliolo-if/hoat bread with butter or 

fortified margarine 
Fruit cup 
Milk 

h. 

Spanish omelet 

Baksid potato* 

Buttered spinach 

t/iaale-vrheat bread with butter or 

fortified margcirintj 
Cof|bc5 ice creain 
Milk 

6. 

?ranlri'urter s 

Hot potato* salnd 

S-y.'fc>Grcd cabbage* 

Enriched bread -.vith butter or 

fortified margarine 
Pumpkin pie 
Beverage 



(over ) 



Page 4 



7. 

liea.t loo.f v.dth sv/oet relish 
Scalloped potatoes* 
Glazed carrots 

Viho le -who 0 1 "broad v/ith butter or 

fortified margarine 
Caranel custard 
B ever age 

9. 

Savory creamed chicken* on biscuits 

Baked sweotpotato 

Buttered green peas 

Ei:iriched bread with butter or " : 

fortified margarine 
Fru i 1 0 d ge 1 a t i ne 
Milk 

11. 

Fish cakes ■ . 

Cole slaw* 

Buttered carrot strips 
VJhole-wheat broad with butter or 

fortified margarine 
Sponge roll vdth orange* cream filling 
Beverage 

■ 13. 

Braised calves' liver 

Pa: sle^r-buttcred potatoes* 

(■•-''■ibaee * and co.rrot salad 

If"''.". wheat bread with butter or 

t' cr yifi 0 d mar g a r in e 
C'' emulate Dudding 
Milk 



Corned Beef 

Hashed brown pot':>toes* 
Cabbage* and green pepper salad 
Enriched rolls with butter or 

fortified margarine 
Chocolate layer cake 
■Milk 

10. 

Pot roast of beef 

Steamed potatoos* 

Buttered spinach 

Vvholo-v>'h3at bread v;ith butter or 

fortified margarine 
Ice cream 
Beverage 

12. 

Braised pork chop 
Potatoes* au gratin 
Buttered green beans 
E^nriched bread ivith butter or 

fortified -margarine 
Lemon mering-ue pie 
Beverage 

11.. 

Boston baked beans with salt pork 
Shredded cabbage* and tomatoes 
Tossed green salad 
Enriched broad with butter or 

fortified margarine 
Peach cobbler 
Milk 



15. 

Roast veal with dressing 
Ma s he d potatoos* 
Buttered green peas 
EnrichcKl broad with butter^ 

fortified margarine 
Fruit cup with spico cookiel 
Milk 



JUL 9-^94. 



