"COMMON SENSE IN THE HOUSEHOLD" SERIES. 



THE 



DINNER YEAR-BOOK 



BY 



MABIOF HAUL AND, 

* ' 

AUTHOR OF "COMMON SENSE IN THE HOUSEHOLD," 
'^BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON AND TEA," ETC. 



NEW YORK: 

CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, 
1883. 



COPYRIGHT BY 
CHARLE3 SCRIBNER'S SONS. 

1878. 

\ 



TROWS 

PRINTING & BOOKBINDING Go. f 

205-213 Rast izth St. t 

NEW YORK. 



TX737 



.familiar (ftalk will] tl)e Heater. 



" Do not laugh when I tell you that one of the most 
serious perplexities of my every-day life is the daily recur- 
ring question, ' What shall we have for dinner ? ' " writes 
a correspondent. 

I do not smile at the naive confession. I feel more 
like sighing as I recollect the years during the summers 
and winters of which the same query advanced with me 
into the dignity of a problem. There were several im- 
portant ends to be compassed in the successful settle- 
ment of the question. To accomplish an agreeable vari- 
ety in the family bill of fare ; to accommodate appetites 
and individual preferences to the season and state of the 
local market ; to avoid incongruous associations of meats, 
vegetables, sauces, entrees and desserts ; to build frag- 
ments into a structure about which should linger no flavor 
of staleness or sameness ; so to manage a long succession 
of meals that yesterday's repast and the more frugal one 
lof to-day should not suggest the alternation of fat and lean 
[in the Hibernian's pork, or the dutiful following of pen- 
ance upon indulgence ; to shun, with equal care, the rock 
of parsimony and the whirlpool of extravagance ; but why 
extend the list of dilemmas ? Are they not written in the 
mental chronicles of every housewife whose conscience 
be her purse shallow or deep will not excuse her from a 
continual struggle with the left-overs ? Such uncompro- 

282080 



2 ^ FAMILIAR TALK. 

inising bits of facts do these same "left-overs" appear in 
the next day's survey of^ways, means, and capabilities, 
that timid mistresses are the less to blame for often wink- 
ing at the Alexandrine audacity with which the cook has 
disposed of the knotty subject by emptying platters and 
tureens into the swill-pail, which should stand for the 
armorial bearings of her tribe wherever found, or satisfied 
indolence, and what goes with her for humanity, by toss- 
ing crusts, bones, and " cold scraps " into the yawning 
basket of the beggar at the basement door. 

One of these days I mean to write an article, scientific 
and practical, upon the genus, " basket-beggar." For the 
present, take the word of one who has studied the species 
in all its varieties, who has suffered long, and certainly not 
been unkind in the acquisition, of experience upon this 
head, and prohibit their visits entirely, and at all seasons, 
" Cold cuts " and the " heels " of loaves belong to you as 
certainly as do hot joints and unmutilattrd pies. Issue 
your declaration of independence to the effect that you 
choose to dispense charity in your own way, and that, 
as an intelligent Christian woman, you can better judge 
by what methods to relieve want and aid the really worthy 
poor, than can the ignorant, irresponsible creature who*' 
lavishes what costs her nothing upon every chance spe- 
culator whose lying whine excites her pity. Sympathy 
which, by the way, would generally lie dormant, were the ; 
listener to the piteous tale obliged to satisfy the peti- 
tioner from her own- purse or wardrobe. 

Returning from what is not, although it may seem to| 
be a digression, let us talk together more briefly than ia 
our wont in these familiar conferences, of the considera- 
tions that have moved and sustained me in the prepara- 
tion of this volume, and which will, I hope, make it a 
welcome and useful counsellor to you. First, then, the 



FAMILIAR TALK. 3 

suggestion and interrogation of sincere seekers for help- 
ful advice pertaining to that most important of the triad 
of daily meals " THE FAMILY DINNER," superadded to 
my own observation and experience of the difficulties 
that beset the subject. Secondly, the discovery, that so 
far as I have been able to push my investigations and 
my searching has been keen and extensive no directory 
upon this particular branch of culinary endeavor has been 
published, at least none in the English language. We 
have had books, some of them admirable helps to skilful, 
no less than to inexperienced housekeepers, upon dinner- 
giving, and company dinners, and " little dinner" parties, 
not to refer to the mighty mountain of manuals upon 
cookery in general ; but, up to the time of the present 
writing, I have found nothing that, to my appreciation, 
meets the case stated by the friend whose plaint heads this 
chapter. 

My aim has been to write out, for seven days of four 
weeks in each month, a menu adapted, in all things, to 
the average American market ; giving meats, fish, vegeta- 
bles, and fruits in their season, and, so far as I could do so 
upon paper, rendering a satisfactory account of every 
pound of meat, etc., brought, by my advice, into the kit- 
chen. I have taken the liberty accorded me by virtue of 
our long and intimate acquaintanceship, of inspecting 
not only the contents of your market-basket, but each 
morning the treasures of larder and refrigerator ; of offering 
counsel concerning crumbs, bones, and such odds-and- 
ends as are held in contempt by many otherwise thrifty 
managers to wit, other cold vegetables than potatoes, 
and dry crusts of bread and cake, while of gravy and 
dripping I have made specialties. I have tried, more- 
over, to. inspire such respect for made-over dinners,, as we 
fee', for the pretty rugs made of the ravellings of Axmin- 



4 FAMILIAR TALK. 

ster carpets. We do not attempt to impose them upon 
ourselves or our friends as " pure Persian." But neither 
do we blush for them because Mrs. Million Aire across 
the way would scorn to give them house-room. Let 
" CONSISTENCY " be stamped upon every appointment of 
your household, and even the parvenue opposite cannot 
despise you. Once learn the truth that moderate, or 
even scanty means do not make meanness or homeliness a 
necessity, and act upon the lesson, and you can set criti- 
cism at defiance. Apropos to this point of consistency, 
let me say, in explanation, not apology, for the small space 
devoted to company-dinners, that I have dealt with them 
upon the principle that ten times one makes ten. Hav- 
ing, in emulation of the Eastern beauty, carried the calf 
with ease for four weeks, you will hardly appreciate the 
difference in the weight of the cow you lift upon the fifth. 
In plainer phrase, give John and the children good din- 
ners, well-cooked, and daintily served, every day, and the 
entertainment of half-a-dozen friends in addition to the 
family party will cease to be a stupendous undertaking. 
They have a saying in the Southern States that aptly 
expresses the labor and excitement attendant upon such 
an event in too many families ; the straining after Mrs. 
Million Aire's diners a la Russe> which presuppose the 
despotism of a chef in the kitchen, and the solemn pomp 
of a Chief Butler in the salle a manger. The Southern 
description of the frantic endeavor is " Trying to put the 
big pot into the little one," and it is invariably used with 
reference to preparations for company. Be content, my 
dear sister, to put into your little pot only so much as it 
will decently hold, and be thankful that you have in it a 
sure gauge of responsibility. 

I have spoken of dinners for four weeks in each month. 
I have written receipts for this number, not in forgetful 



FAMILIAR TALK. 5 

ness of the fact that there is but one February per annum, 
but because the need of adapting the bills of fare to the 
days of the week, instead of the month, was absolute, and if 
I wished the Dinner Year-Book to be a perpetual calen- 
dar, I must say nothing of the broken week that some* 
time ends and sometimes begins the month. The diffi- 
culty of disposing satisfactorily of the two or three odd 
days brought to my mind, while blocking out my work, 
the summary manner in which one of my baby-girls once 
dismissed a somewhat analogous difficulty. 

"My dear," I said to her one night as she concluded 
her prayer at my knee, f * you have forgotten to pray for 
your little cousins. How did that happen? Don't you 
want our Heavenly Father to take care of them ? " 

She^made a motion of again bending her knees, yawned 
sleepily, and tumbled into bed. 

" Can't help it, mamma ! Baby is too tired ! Horace 
and Eddie must scuffle for themselves just this one night ! " 

I have given you twenty-eight nay, counting your 
possible company-meal twenty-nine dinners in succes- 
sion to little purpose if you cannot collate from previous 
receipts one or" two for yourself, and be the better for the 
practice. I need hardly say that I do not anticipate or 
desire slavish adherence to the plan sketched for your day 
or week. I have sketched that is all not worked out 
a sum in which addition or subtraction would materially 
affect the sum-total. The framework is, I would fain 
hope, symmetrical. I expect you to build thereupon as 
convenience or discretion may dictate. 



TOUCHING SAUCEPANS. 



oucl)ing Saucepans. 

WHILE it is true that the finest tools will not impart 
skill to the untrained workman, it is equally a matter of 
fact that the best artisan is he who cares most jealously 
for the quality and condition of his instruments as well as 
for the finish of his workmanship. 

A visitor once asked permission to witness the opera- 
tion of cooking a beefsteak in my kitchen, saying that her 
husband had spoken in terms of commendation of those 
he had eaten at my table. Like the good wife she was, 
she desired to " catch the trick," whatever it might be, 
of preparing them to his liking. I willingly acceded to 
her request, and upon her return to the parlor her hus- 
band inquired eagerly : " Did you learn 4he secret? " 

" Yes," was the smiling answer. "You must buy me a 
gridiron ! " 

Up to that time, she then explained, fried steaks had 
been the rule in her house, and gridirons a thing unheard 
or unthought of. 

A fried beefsteak being, as I have elsewhere stated, a 
culinary solecism, I have, perhaps, selected an extreme 
case as the test of my discourse upon the necessity of a 
supply of fitting utensils for the proper prosecution of 
home-cookery. Mrs. Whitney's idea of the " art-kitchen," 
so charmingly set forth in " We Girls," may not be so 
chimerical (with limitations) as most practical housewives 
practised in nothing more than in the exercise of pa- 
tience are apt to suppose. They tell us the tale- 
known already too sadly well to each of us of the im- 
possibility of inducing "girls" who are tractable and 
respectful in most things, to accept labor-saving machines, 



TOUCHING SAUCEPANS. 7 

and the thousand-and-one ingenious contrivances for 
making cooking easier and even graceful ; of the hard 
usage to which expensive implements are subjected in 
rude hands, the motive-power of which is the until! ed 
brain, unrestrained by the conscienceless will ; of how 
innovations are openly flouted, or secretly sneered at, 
" until," say they, " we find it easier to let the cook have 
her own way down-stairs, and reconcile ourselves, as best 
we may, to obstinate stupidity and unmerciful breakages. 
As to art- kitchens," a shrug and a groan, " we are thank- 
ful if our tenderest care can keep the upper stories free 
from the vandalism that rages below." 

Nevertheless, acknowledging, as I have, personally, rea- 
sons for doing the truth of all these things I make an- 
swer, " Have an art-kitchen for yourself ! " First, give your 
cook, or maid-of-all-work, a fair trial. It is a duty you owe 
to humanity and to her to prove, conclusively, whether her 
careless or destructive habits be ingrain and wilful, or 
merely the result of ignorance and bad training. There are 
bad mistresses, let us remember, and more still who are 
indifferent or incompetent. If " our girl " has a heart or a 
conscience, let us find it. Make her understand the value 
and usefulness of the appliances you have furnished for 
her work, where and how they are to be kept, and set her 
the example of always looking for and putting them in 
their proper places. If they are misused, show your re- 
gret decidedly, but still kindly. Should all means of 
civilizing her taste up to your standard fail, make, as I 
have advised, an art-kitchen for your own use. Appro- 
priate one corner of the room, where cooking is done, for 
your operations, and arrange there your pet tools. Have 
your scoop flour-sifter ; your patent pie-lifter and oyster- 
broiler ; your star-toaster ; your pie-crimper, vegetable and 
nutmeg graters ; gravy-strainer, colander, biscuit-cutter, 



TOUCHING SAUCEPANS. 

skimmers, larding needles, wire, and perforated, and slit and 
fluted spoons ; your weights and measures, and the tidy, 
serviceable tinned and enamelled saucepans, Scotch kettles, 
frying-pans, etc., that will retain tidiness and serviceable 
qualities so long in your care, and so soon come to grief 
in boorish clutches. Set all these, and as many others as 
you like and can afford to buy always including the 
Dover egg-beater and its " Baby " (made for whipping one 
egg to more purpose than one egg, or anything else as 
small was ever whipped before) in array upon walls and 
shelves,* and. let the logic of daily events prove how far 
they will deprive work of the wearing vexations attendant 
upon long searches for the right article, and its wrong 
condition when found. Make your helpers one and all 
comprehend that these are your especial property, to 
be used and kept clean by no one else. Let them be 
looked down upon as the toys of a would-be-busy womaii 
by the superior intellects about you, should they see fit 
thus to do, and provide such tools as are suited to coarser 
fingers for 'them to use. The chances are many to one 
that your dexterous manipulation of your instruments ; the 
excellence of the products achieved by yourself and them ; 
even the attractive neatness of the display and your 
corner, will win skeptics, first, to indulgence, then, admir- 
ation, then, to imitation. If you can afford the great 

* It gives me pleasure to state, in this connection, that all of the 
articles named in the above catalogue (and many more) are made 
by the DOVER STAMPING COMPANY, BOSTON, MASS., 88 AND 90 
NORTH STREET. The inventors of the inimitable Egg-Beater have 
proved themselves as appreciative in other respects of the needs of 
American housewives, and as ingenious in meeting these. I call at- 
tention to their wares, as a simple act of justice to what is so excel- 
lent in itself, and as an unsolicited thank-offering to the stranger-ben- 
efactors who have made many of my culinary duties a pastime, rather 
than a toil. 



TOUCHING SAUCEPANS. 9 

luxury of a pastry or mixing-room, adjoining the kitchen, 
so much the better for you and your pious undertaking. 
But without regard to what may be the effect upon others, 
have your saucepans, of whatever designs and in whatever 
quantities you like taking " saucepan " as a generic 
term for every description of mute helpers in the task of 
elevating cookery into a fine art, or, at the least, in re- 
deeming it from the stigma of coarseness and vulgarity. 

Have, also, as an indispensable adjunct of saucepans, 
appliances for cleansing them. There is nothing inhe- 
rently degrading in dish-washing. Provide plenty of 
towels and hot water ; a mop with a handle and a loop by 
which to hang it up when it has been squeezed and shaken 
after use ; a soap-shaker a neat wire cup, enclosing 
the soap, and furnished with a handle of tinned wire, and 
a dish-pan, with a partition running across the middle, 
that the soiled articles may be rinsed from grease in one 
of the compartments before they are purified thoroughly 
in the other. Have, also, at hand a can or box of wash- 
ing soda, and a bottle of ammonia for taking off the grease 
more effectually ; a cake of Indexical silver soap in a cup, 
with a brush, for restoring lustre to tins, Britannia or 
plated, or silver ware. Thus armed, the cleansing of your 
implements will be a matter of brief moment, and your 
work in the kitchen be, in no sense, a hindrance to the 
stated duties of the day, while your methods and occa- 
sional presence cannot fail to be a refining influence upon 
all except the very common and spiritually unclean. 
Ladyhood, if thorough, will assent itself, even behind a 
scullion's apron. 



JANUARY. 
first tOeek, Btmktg. 



Beef Soup. 
Chicken smothered with Oysters. Celery Salad. 

Mashed Potatoes. Cauliflower au gratin, 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Blanc Mange and Cream. 

Sponge Cake. 

Cocoa. 



BEEF SOUP. 

3 Ibs. of lean beef, with a marrow-bone. 

\ Ib. lean ham (or a ham-bone, if you have it). 

i turnip. 

I onion. 

i carrot. 

J of a cabbage. 

3 stalks of celery. 

3 quarts of water cold, of course. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Cut the meat very fine, and crack the bones well. Put 
these on in a pot with a close top ; cover with a quart of 
water, and set where they will come very slowly to a boil. 
If they do not reach this point in less than an hour, so 
much the better. When the contents of the pot begin 
to bubble, add the remaining two quarts of cold water, 
And let all boil slowly for three hours : for two hours with 
the top closed, during the last with it slightly lifted. 
Wash and peel the turnip, carrot, and 'onion, scrape the 
celery, and wash with the cabbage. Cut all into dice and 
lay in cold water, a little salted, for half an hour. Put the 
carrot on to stew in a small vessel by itself ; the others 
all together, with enough water to cover them. Some 



12 JANUARY. 

think the carrot keeps color and shape better if hot,, 
instead of cold water be used for it. Let it stew until 
tender, then drain off the water and set it aside to cool. 
The other vegetables should be boiled to pieces. Half 
an hour before the soup is to be taken up, strain the water 
from the cabbage, etc., pressing them to a pulp to extract 
all the strength. Return this to the saucepan, throw in a 
little salt, let it boil up once to clear it ; skim and add to 
the soup. Put in pepper, and salt unless the ham has 
salted it sufficiently and boil, covered, twenty minutes. 
Strain into an 'earthenware basin ; let it gefcool enough 
for the fat to arise to the surface, when take off all 
that will come away. Return to the pot, which should 
have been previously rinsed with hot water, boil briskly 
for one minute, and throw in the carrot. Skim and serve. 

This is a good, clear soup. If you like it thicker, dis- 
solve a tablespoonful of gelatine in enough cold water to 
cover it well this may be done by an hour's soaking 
and add to the soup after the latter is strained and cleared 
of the fat. 

When practicable, make Sunday's soup on Saturday, 
so far as to prepare the " stock," or meat base. Set it 
away in an earthenware crock, adding a little salt. This 
not only lessens Sunday's work, but the unstrained soup 
gathers the whole strength of the meat, and the fat can be 
removed in a solid cake of excellent dripping. Indeed, 
it is a good rule always to prepare soup stock at least 
twenty-four hours before it is to be used for the table. 

Try, likewise, to make enough soup for Sunday to last 
over Monday as well. A little forethought on Saturday 
will lessen the labors and increase the comfort of what has 
been somewhat profanely named " Job's birthday," the an* 
niversary which was to be accursed for evermore. 

CHICKEN SMOTHERED WITH OYSTERS. 
i full-grown, tender chicken. 

1 pint* of oysters. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

3 " " cream. 

i tablespoonful of corn-starch. 
Yolks of three hard-boiled eggs. 



FIRST WEEK SUNDAY. 13 

i scant cup bread-crumbs. 
Pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. 

Prepare the chicken as for roasting. Stuff with a dress- 
ing of the oysters chopped pretty fine, and mixed with the 
bread-crumbs, seasoned to taste with pepper and salt. 
Tie up the neck securely. (This can be done on Satur- 
day, if the fowl be afterwards kept in a very cold place.) 

Put the chicken thus stuffed and trussed, with legs and 
wings tied close to the body with soft tape, into a tin pail 
with a tight top. Cover closely and set, with a weight on 
the top, in a pot of cold water. Bring gradually to a boil, 
that the fowl may be heated evenly and thoroughly. Stew 
steadily, never fast, for an hour and a half after the water 
in the outer kettle begins to boil. Then open the pail 
and test with a fork to see if the chicken be tender. If 
not, re-cover at once, and stew for half or three-quarters 
of an hour longer. When the chicken is tender through- 
out, take it out and lay upon a hot dish, covering imme- 
diately. Turn the juices left in the pail into a saucepan, 
thicken with the corn-starch, which should first be wet up 
with a little cold milk, then the chopped parsley, butter, 
pepper and salt, and the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs 
chopped fine. Boil up once, stir in the cream, and take 
from the fire before it can boil again. Pour a few spoon- 
fuls over the chicken, and serve the rest in a sauce-tureen. 

CELERY SALAD. 
2 bunches of celery. 
l tablespoonful of salad oil. 
4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 
i small teaspoonful fine sugar. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 

Wash and scrape the celery, lay in ice-cold water until 
dinner-time, when cut into inch-lengths, season, tossing 
all we!l up together, and serve in a salad bowl. 

CAULIFLOWER au gratin. 
i large cauliflower. 
4 tablespoonfuls grated cheese. 
i cup drawn butter. 
Pepper and salt. A pinch of nutmeg. 



14 JANUARY. 

Boil the cauliflower until tender (about twenty minutes), 
having first tied it up in a bag of coarse lace or tarlatan. 
Have xeady a cup of good drawn butter, and pour over 
the cauliflower, when you have drained and dished the 
latter. Sift the cheese thickly over the top, and brown by 
holding a red-hot shovel so close to the cheese that it 
singes and blazes. Blow out the fire on the instant, and 
send to the table. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Pare the potatoes very thin, lay in cold water for an 
hour, and cover well with boiling water. (" Peach-blows" 
are better put down in -cold water.) Boil quickly, and 
when done, drain off every drop of water ; throw in a little 
salt ; set back on 'the range for two or three minutes. 
Mash soft with a potato-beetle, or whip to a cream with a 
fork, adding a little butter and enough milk to make a 
soft paste. Heap in a smooth mound upon a vegetable 
dish. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Open a can of tomatoes an hour before cooking them. 
Leave out the cores and unripe parts. Cook always in 
tin or porcelain saucepans. Iron injures color and flavor. 
Stew gently for half an hour ; season to taste with salt, 
pepper, a little sugar, and a tablespoonful of butter. 
Gook gently, uncovered, ten minutes longer, and turn 
into a deep dish. 

BLANC MANGE. 
i liberal quart of milk. 

1 oz. Cooper's gelatine. 
of a cup of white sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. 

Soak the gelatine for two hours in a breakfast-cup of 
cold water. Heat the milk to boiling in a farina-kettle, 
or in a tin pail set in a pot of hot water. Add the soaked 
gelatine and sugar, stir for ten minutes over the fire, and 
strain through a thin muslin bag into a mould wet with 
cold water. Flavor and set in a cold place to form. To 
loosen it, dip the mould for one instant in hot water, de 



FIRST WEEK SUNDAY. IS 

tach the surface from the sides by a light pressure of the 
fingers, and reverse over a glass or china dish. Serve 
with powdered sugar and cream. 

By all means have Sunday desserts prepared upon the 
preceding day. To this end, I have endeavored to give 
such receipts for the blessed day as can be easily made 
ready on Saturday. 

COCOA. 

6 tablespoonfuls of cocoa to each pint of water. 
As much milk as you have water. 
Sugar to taste. 

Rub the cocoa smooth in a little cold water. Have 
ready on the fire the pint of boiling water. Stir in the 
grated cocoa-paste. Boil twenty minutes ; add the milk 
and boil five minutes more, stirring often. 
Sweeten in the cups to suit different tastes. 
There is a preparation of cocoa, already powdered, 
called " cocoatina," which needs no boiling. It is very 
good, and saves the trouble of grating and cooking. I 
regret that, although I have used it frequently and with 
great satisfaction, I have forgotten the name of the manu- 
facturer. It is put up in round boxes, like mustard, and 
is quite as economical for family use as the cakes of 
cocoa. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

6 eggs. The weight of the eggs in sugar. 

Half their weight in flour. 

i lemon, juice and rind. 

Beat yolks and whites very light, separately of course, 
the powdered sugar into the yolks when they are smooth 
and thick ; next, the juice and grated peel of the lemon ; 
then the whites with a few swift strokes ; at last, the 
flour, in great, loose handfuls. Stir in lightly, but thor- 
oughly. Too much beating after the flour goes in makes 
sponge cake tough. Bake in round tin moulds, buttered. 
Your oven should be steady. When the cakes begin tc 
color on top, cover with paper to prevent burning. 
When cool, wrap in a thick cloth to keep fresh. 



16 JANUARY. 

Jir0t tDeek. 

Soup a 1'Italienne. 
Breaded Mutton Chops. 

Baked Macaroni, with Tomato Sauce. 
Potato Puff. Apple Sauce. 



Corn Starch Hasty Pudding. 
Coffee. 



Said an irascible householder to a friend from another 
city, whom he chanced to meet in the street one day, 
" Come and dine with me ! But I give you warning we 
shall have nothing for dinner but a confounded dress- 
maker !" Few of the great middle class, who are the 
strength and glory of our land, would dare take an unex- 
pected guest home on washing-day, although fewer still 
would dare reveal, as frankly as did our blunt citizen, the 
cause of their reluctance to unveil the penetralia of what 
are, upon all days save Black Monday and Blue Tuesday, 
orderly and brightsome households. 

Don't interrupt me, please, my much-tried and much- 
trying sister, upon whose brow the plaits of Monday's 
tribulations have left enduring traces ! I know Bridget 
is always cross on wash-day, and that Katy wears an ag- 
grieved air from morning until night ; that dusting, china- 
washing, and divers other unaccustomed tasks are ap- 
pointed unto your already busy self; that John and the 
boys hate " pick-up dinners ; " that the modest bills jf 
fare set down in this book for the second and third days 
of the week will, at the first glance, seem preposterous 
and unfeeling. You will survey them with very much 
the same feeling as moved Pope to exclaim, with tears in 
his eyes, " From an old friend I had not expected this ! " 
when his host, having allowed him to eat to repletion ft 
less savory viands, had brought on, without a note of 
preparation, the poet's favorite dish, a fine hare, roasted 
with truffles. But the fact remains that people cannot 
swallow enough on Sunday to support Nature through the 
two days' journey into the wilderness of making-clean that 



FIRST WEEK MONDAY. 1 7 

follows the season of rest and devotion. It is also true 
that your husband and yourself, with school-children and 
servants, work harder on Monday than upon any other one 
day of the seven, and that your food should be nourishing. 
Should Bridget protest against " hot mate and soup " as 
unprecedented and " onfaling," Bridget's mistress (by 
courtesy) must bring another unknown commodity to 
the obstiuate Celt, to bear upon the subject to wit, 
BRAINS. As I shall try to show, an hour given by your- 
self to the lower regions too often an inferno on that 
direful day will put such a repast before unexpectant 
John as shall have for his eye and taste none of the char- 
acteristics of a " pick-up dinner." 

SOUP 1 L'ITALIENNE. 

The stock of Sunday's soup strained from the carrots. 

Half a cup of grated cheese and a cup of milk. 

2 tablespoon fuls of corn-starch wet up with water. 

2 eggs beaten light. 

Put the soup on fifteen minutes before dinner, where 
it will heat quickly. The moment it boils, draw it to one 
side, stir in the corn-starch and milk and heat anew, stir- 
ring constantly until it begins to thicken. Set it again 
upon the side of the range, and add the beaten eggs. 
Cover and leave it where it will keep hot, but not cook, 
while you scald the tureen and, put the grated cheese in 
the bottom. In five minutes pour the soup upon the 
cheese, stir all up well, and it is ready for the table. 

This is a delicious soup and easily made. 

BREADED MUTTON CHOPS BAKED. 
Trim the chops neatly and put aside the bones and bits 
of skin for the sauce for macaroni. Pour a little melted 
butter over the meat. Do this as early in the day as 
convenient, cover them and let them stand until an hour 
before they are to be served. Then, roll each in beaten 
egg, next, in fine cracker-dust, (you can buy it ready 
powdered) .and lay them in your dripping-pan with a 
very little water in the bottom just enough to keep them 
from burning. Bake quickly covering the dripping-pan 
with another foi half an hour. Then remove the upper 



1 8 JANUARY. 

baste the chops with butter and hot water, and let them 
brown. When done, lay them upon a hot dish and set 
in the open oven to keep warm. Add to the gravy 
in the dripping-pan a little hot water, a teaspoonful of 
browned flour, a tablespoonful of catsup, a small quan- 
tity of minced onion, pepper and salt. Boil up once, 
slrain, and pour over the chops. 

MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Break the macaroni into short pieces and set over the 
fire with enough boiling water to cover it well, as it 
swells to treble its original dimensions. In twenty min- 
utes it should be tender. Drain off the water carefully, 
not to break the macaroni, and stir lightly into it pepper, 
salt, and a tablespoonful of butter. Turn it into a deep 
dish and pour over it a sauce made as follows : To the 
bones and refuse bits left from trimming the chops, add a 
pint of cold water, and stew slowly upon the back of the 
range, (lest Bridget should be' inconvenienced thereby,) 
until you have less than a cupful of good gravy. Strain 
out the bones, etc., season to taste, and add what was left 
from the stewed tomatoes of yesterday. Having had the 
provision for to-day's dinner in mind, you will have acted 
wisely in seeing for yourself that it did not go into the 
swill-pail under the head of "scraps." Cook tomatoes 
and gravy together for three minutes after they begin to 
simmer, and pour, smoking hot, over the macaroni. Let 
it stand covered a few minutes before serving. 

POTATO PUFF. 

To two cupfuls of cold mashed potato (more of yestei- 
day's leavings), add a tablespoonful of melted butter, and 
beat to a cream. Put with this two eggs whipped light, 
and a cupful of milk, salting to taste. Beat all well ; pour 
into a greased baking-dish, and bake quickly to a light 
brown. Serve in the dish in which it was cooked. 

CORN-STARCH HASTY PUDDING. 
i quart of fresh milk, 
i tablespoonful of butter. 

4 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch wet up with water. 
i teaspoonful of salt. 



FIRST WEEK TUESDAY. 19 

Heat the milk to scalding, and stir into it the corn- 
starch until it has boiled ten minutes and is thick and 
smooth throughout. Add salt and butter, let the pud- 
ding stand in the farina-kettle in which it has been boiled 
the hot water around it for three minutes before turning 
it into a deep open dish. 

Eat with butter and sugar, or with powdered sugar and 
cream, with nutmeg grated over it. 

COFFEE. 

A French coffee-pot is a convenience on Monday. If 
you have one, you know how to use it. If not, put a 
quart of boiling water into your coffee-pot ; wet up a cupful 
of ground cotfee with the white of an egg, adding the 
egg-shell, and a little cold water. Put this into the boil- 
ing hot water, and boil fast ten minutes. Then, add half a 
cup of coldwater, and set it upon the hearth or table to 
" settle" for five minutes. Pour it off carefully into your 
metal or china coffee-pot or urn. 



Jir0t UJtck. 



Scotch Broth. 

Rolled Beefsteaks. Cabbage Salad. 

Browned Potatoes. Baked Beans. 

Apple and Tapioca Pudding. 
Hard Sauce. 

SCOTCH BROTH. 

3 Ibs. of veal and bones from neck or knuckle. 
3 quarts of water, 
i onion. 
i turnip. 

3 stalks of celery, 
i cupful pearl barley. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 



20 JANUARY. 

Crack the bones and mince the meat early in the day, 
if you dine near midday, and put on with the cold water. 
Soak the barley in lukewarm water, after washing it well, 
and when it has lain in the tepid bath for two hours, put 
it in the same over the fire to cook slowly, keeping it 
covered fully by adding hot water from the kettle. Wasli, 
scrape and chop the vegetables ; cover with cold water, 
and stew in a saucepan by themselves. When they are 
very soft, rub them through a colander ; add the water 
in which they were cooked, and keep hot until the meat 
in the soup-kettle has boiled to rags. For this purpose 
four hours are better than three. Strain out bone's and 
meat ; put soup-stock, barley (with the water in which it 
has boiled), vegetable broth, pepper, and salt, into one 
kettle and boil slowly for thirty minutes. A little chopped 
parsley is an improvement. 



ROLLED BEEFSTEAKS. 

2 good sirloin steaks. 

Bread-crumbs. 

A slice of fat salt pork. 

Seasoning, a little minced onion, pepper and salt. 

Take out the bones from the steak and throw them 
into the soup-pot. If your butcher has not already done 
so, beat the meat flat with the broad side of a hatchet, 
and cover it with a force-meat made of bread-crumbs, 
minced pork, and half an onion. Moisten this slightly 
with water, and season to taste. Roll each steak up,' 
closely enclosing the stuffing ; bind with twine into two com- 
pact bundles and lay in a dripping-pan. Dash a cupful of 
boiling water over each, cover with an inverted pan, and 
bake about three-quarters of an hour, in their own steam. 
At the end of this time remove the cover, baste with 
butter and dredge with flour to brown the meat. When 
they are of a fine color, lay upon a hot dish. Thicken 
the gravy with a little browned flour, boil up and send to 
table in a boat. In removing the strings from the rolled 
beef prior to serving, clip them in several places, that the 
form of the meat may not be disturbed. 



FIRST WEEK TUESDAY. 21 

CABBAGE SALAD. 
i small head of cabbage, chopped fine, or cut into 

shreds. 

t cup of boiling milk. 
of a cup of vinegar, 
i tablespoonful of butter. 

1 tablespoonful of white sugar. 

2 eggs well beaten. 

i teaspoonful essence of celery. 

Pepper and salt. 

Heat milk and vinegar in separate vessels. To the 
boiling vinegar add butter, sugar, and seasoning, lastly 
the chopped cabbage. Heat to scalding, but do not let 
it boil. Stir the beaten eggs into the hot milk. Cook 
one minute together after they begin to boil. Turn the 
hoi: cabbage into a bowl ; pour the custard over it ; toss 
up and about with a wooden or silver fork, until all the 
ingredients are well mixed. Cover and set in a very cold 
place for some hours. 

This is a very delightful salad, quite repaying the 
trouble of cooking the dressing. 

BROWNED POTATOES. 

Boil large potatoes with their skins on ; peel them, and, 
when you uncover your beef for browning, lay the pota- 
toes in the dripping-pan about the meat. Dredge and 
baste them as well as the beef. If not quite brown when 
the meat is ready, leave them in the gravy for awhile, 
before thickening the latter. Drain in a hot colander, 
and arrange neatly around the steaks in the dish. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Soak dried beans all night in soft water, exchanging 
this in the morning for lukewarm, and this, two hours 
later, for still warmer. Let them lie an hour in this, 
before putting them on to boil in cold water. When 
they are soft, drain and turn them into a bake-dish. Sea- 
son with pepper and salt, with a liberal spoonful of butter. 
Add enough boiling water to prevent them from scorching 
and bake, covered, until they smoke and bubble. Re 
move the cover, and brown. Serve in the bake-dish. 



22 JANUARY. 

APPLE AND TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

i teacupful tapioca, soaked for five hours in 3 teacup- 
fuls of warm (not hot) water. 

8 juicy pippins, pared and cored. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar and a saltspoonful of salt, 
with a few whole cloves. 

Arrange the apples in a deep dish ; add a cup of cold 
water ; cover, and steam in a moderate oven until tender 
all through, turning them once or twice. Turn off -half 
the liquid and pour the tapioca, which should have been 
soaked in a warm place, over the apples, when you have 
filled the hollows left by the cores with sugar and put a 
clove in each. The tapioca should be slightly salted. 
Bake one hour, or until the tapioca is clear and crusted 
on top. Serve in pudding-dish. 

HARD SAUCE. 

To two cups of powdered sugar add half a cup of butter, 
slightly warmed, so that the two can be worked up 
together. When they are well mixed, beat in half a tea- 
spoonful of nutmeg and the juice of a lemon. Whip 
smooth and light, mound neatly upon a butter-plate, and 
set in the cold to harden. 



JFirst 



Split Pea Soup. 
Halibut Steaks. Boiled Leg of Mutton 

Caper Sauce. 
Spinach. Stewed Potatoes. 

Cottage Pudding with Liquid Sauce. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

1 pint of split peas. 
4 quarts of water. 

2 Ibs, of beef and some bones. 
Ib. of lean bacon or ham. 



FIRST WEEK WEDNESDAY. 2$ 

3 stalks of celery, the white part only, cut fine. 

Juice of a lemon. 

Stale bread cut into dice and fried. 
Soak the peas all night in soft water, changing it in the 
morning for warm not hot. Throw this off after an hour 
and cover the peas with four quarts of cold water. Boil in 
this adding the meat, cut small, the bones well cracked 
and the celery -four hours. Always boil soups slowly. 
The neglect of this rule leaves in the kettle a mass of 
toughened meat and an ocean of dish-water. 

When you are ready to take up your soup, strain in a 
colander, picking out and casting aside bits of bones and 
shreds of meat. Rub the peas and celery through the 
holes of the strainer until nothing more will pass. Season 
with pepper and salt ; add the juice of a small lemon, and 
return to the kettle, which must first be rinsed with hot 
water. Let all boil together two minutes. Should it not 
seem so thick as you would like, you can put in, while it 
is boiling, a little corn-starch wet up with cold water. 
Put a couple of slices of stale bread, cut into dice and 
fried crisp in dripping, in the heated tureen, and pour the 
soup upon them. 

HALIBUT STEAKS FRIED. 

Wash and wipe the steaks. Roll each in flour, and fry 
upon a buttered griddle, turning carefully with a spatula, 
or cake-turner, when the lower side is done. They should 
be of a nice brown, and tender throughout. Remove to a 
hot dish and garnish with sliced lemon ; in carving, see 
that a bit of the lemon goes to each person, as many pre- 
fer it to any other sauce for fish. Send around potatoes' 
with the steak. Worcestershire is a good store-sauce for 
fish and game. Anchovy is pre-eminently a fish sauce, buf 
many do not like it. 

LEG OF MUTTON BOILED. 

Do not have the mutton too fat or too large. Cut off 
the shank, which the butcher will have nicked for you, 
leaving about two inches beyond the ham. Wash and 
wipe carefully and boil in hot water, with a little salt, unti! 



24 .JANUARY. 

a fork will readily pierce the thickest part. About ten or 
twelve minutes to the pound is a good rule in boiling fresA 
meat. Serve with caper sauce. Since you intend to use 
the liquor in which the meat is boiled for to-morrow's soup, 
do not oversalt it. But sprinkle, instead, salt over the leg 
of mutton after it is dished ; rub it all over with butter and 
jet in a hot oven for a single minute. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

1 cup of the liquor in which the meat has been boiled. 

2 teaspoonfuls of flour rubbed smooth in a little water. 

Salt to taste. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

About two dozen capers or green nasturtium-seed. 

Heat the liquor to boiling, and skim before stirring in 
the flour, which must be perfectly free from lumps, and 
rubbed smooth in cold water. Stir until the sauce thickens 
evenly. It is best to cook all sauces in a vessel set within 
a larger one of hot water. When it has boiled about a 
minute, add the butter gradually, stirring each bit in well 
before putting in more. Salt, and drop in the capers. 
Let it just boil, and turn into a sauce-boat. 

SPINACH. 

Pull the spinach from the stalks, leaf by leaf; wash care- 
fully, and leave in cold water one hour. Boil in hot water 
fifteen minutes. Drain very dry in a colander ; chop ex- 
tremely fine in a wooden bowl, then return to the saucepan 
with a tablespoonful of butter, a little salt, and a teaspoon- 
ful of white sugar. As it heats beat it up with a wooden 
spoon until it is a soft paste. Let it bubble up once, and 
dish. Lay a hard-boiled egg or two, cut in thin slices, 
upon the surface. Few vegetables are more often ruined 
in the cooking than spinach. The above receipt is simple 
and good. 

STEWED POTATOES. 

Pare and cut into large dice some good potatoes. Lay 
in cold water half an hour. Stew in cold water, a little 
salted. There should be enough water to cover there 



FIRST WEEK WEDNESDAY. 2$ 

well. When they are tender and begin to crumble at the 
edges, drain off half the water, and pour in as much milk. 
When they are again scalding hot, stir in a lump of butter 
the size of an egg (for a large dish) rolled in flour, salt, 
pepper and chopped parsley to taste. Boil up once and 
serve in a covered dish. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 
i cup of powdered sugar, 
i cup of sweet milk. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

2 eggs, beaten light, yolks and whites separately. 
Saltspoonful of salt. 

About 3 cups of Hecker's prepared flour, enough for 
cake-batter. 

Rub the butter well into the sugar ; add beaten yolks ; 
the milk, salt, then whipped whites and yolks alternately. 
Bake in a buttered mould. When you can bring out the 
testing-straw clean from the middle of the loaf, turn it 
out upon a dish. Cut in slices while hot, as it is wanted. 

One who has never tried it can hardly believe that the 
result of a receipt which may be tried fearlessly by a 
novice in cookery, could be the really elegant pudding 
just described. 

It is also as economical as toothsome. 

SAUCE FOR COTTAGE PUDDING. 

2 cups of powdered sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

i cup of boiling water. 

i glass sherry wine. 

Nutmeg or cinnamon to taste. 

Rub the butter into the sugar; add hot water gradu- 
ally ; then spice and wine. Cover tightly to keep in the 
strength of the wine, and set for twenty minutes in a 
saucepan of boiling water. Stir up and send to table. 

2 



26 JANUARY. 

first tthek. 



Vermicelli Soup. 

Scalloped Oysters. Mince of Mutton with Potato Frill, 

Baked Tomatoes. Celery. 

Tipsy Trifle. 
Apples and Nuts. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Take off all the fat from the broth in which your mutton 
was cooked yesterday, and boil it down slowly to two- 
thirds of the original quantity. Stew to pieces, in another 
vessel, a stalk of celery, one small onion, a carrot, -and a 
bunch of sweet herbs all cut up fine. A ham-bone, if 
you have it, or a couple of slices of lean ham, will be an 
improvement to the broth. Strain the soup ; rub the 
vegetables through a fine colander with the water in 
which they were boiled ; return to the fire with a double 
handful of vermicelli broken into short pieces ; boil for 
ten minutes ; add a tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour ; 
boil up and serve. 

Send around a saucer of grated cheese with vermicelli 
and macaroni soups. It is a great improvement to the 
flavor arid consistency. Each person may take as much 
or as little as he likes. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 
i quart of fine oysters. 

1 coffee-cupful of pounded crack-er. 

2 great spoonfuls of butter. 

cupful of cream or rich milk. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

Butter a baking-dish and cover the bottom pretty 
thickly with pounded cracker. Wet with oyster liquor 
and a few spoonfuls of cream. Next, lay oysters, one 
deep, closely over these. Pepper and salt, and stick a 
bit of butter upon each. Another layer of crumbs, wet 



FIRST WEEK THURSDAY. 27 

as before ; more oysters, and proceed in like order until 
your dish is full, making the top layer of crumbs with 
butter dotted over it. Set in the oven, invert a plate or 
tin pan over the dish, and bake until the juice bubbles up 
to the top. Uncover ; set upon the upper grating of the 
oven to brown, and send to table in the bake-dish. Pass 
around sliced lemon with it. 

Oysters, like fish, follow immediately after soup, and 
are a course by themselves. 

MINCE OF MUTTON WITH POTATO FRILL. 
The remains of yesterday's mutton, minced, but not 
very fine. e 

1 cupful of drawn butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream, or rich milk. 

Pepper, salt, and mace to taste, also chopped parsley. 

1 button onion. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 

Heat the sauce to a boil, add the seasoning and the 
onion, chopped very fine ; then, the meat. Draw the 
saucepan to the side of the range, and let it stand, 
closely covered, in boiling water for ten minutes. Set 
again over the fire and bring to boiling point. Add the 
eggs and milk and set back at the side for five minutes, 
still covered. The mince should never really boil after 
the meat goes in. 

POTATO FRILL. 

Boil and mash some potatoes ; working in a little milk 
and butter, but not so much as to make the paste very 
soft. Season with salt, and, while still hot, knead in a 
beaten egg. Shape this paste into a fence, on the inside 
round of a shallow dish ; fluting it regularly with the round 
handle of a knife.. Set for one minute in a hot oven, but 
not long enough to cause the fence to crack. Glaze 
quickly with butter, and pour the meat carefully within 
the wall. The mince should not be so thin as to wash 
away the "frill." If well managed this is a pret f v and a 
savory dish. 



28 JANUARY. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

i can of tomatoes. 

Stale bread, crumbed fine. 

i tablespoonful of butter. 

Pepper, salt, a little chopped parsley, and white sugar. 

Drain off two-thirds of the liquor from the tomatoes \ 
salt it and set aside for another day's soup. One has no 
excuse for waste whose "stock-pot" is always near at 
hand. Little comes amiss to it. Cover the bottom of a 
bake-dish with crumbs ; lay the tomatoes evenly upon this 
bed ; season with pepper, salt, sugar, and parsley, with 
bits of butter here and there. Strew bread-crumbs over 
all, a thicker layer than at the bottom ; put tiny pieces of 
butter upon this, ^nd bake, covered, about thirty-five min- 
utes. Take off the cover and brown upon the upper shelf 
of the oven. Do not let it stay there long enough to get 
dry. 

C E LERY RAW. 

Wash, trim, and scrape the stalks, "selecting those that 
are white and tender. Crisp by leaving them in very cold 
water until they are wanted for the table. Arrange neatly 
in a celery-stand. Pass between the oysters and meat. 

TIPSY TRIFLE. 

i quart of milk. 

3 e gg s > whites and yolks beaten separately. 

i stale sponge-cake. 

i cup of sugar. 

Flavoring of vanilla. 

i cup of sherry wine. 

A few spoonfuls of currant jelly. 

Make a custard of the milk, sugar, the yolks of the eggs 
and the whites of two. Put in the latter ingredients 
when the milk almost boils, and stir until it begins to 
thicken. Flavor when cold. Put a layer of sliced cake 
in the bottom of a glass bowl. Wet with the wine and a 
few spoonfuls of custard, and when it is quite soaked, put 
on more cake. Proceed in this manner until the cake 
and wine are -used up, when pour on, a little at a time, the 



FIRST WEEK FRIDAY. 2$ 

remainder of the custard ; holding down the cake with a 
broad spoon as you do this to keep it from floating. Lay 
a heavy plate upon it. for the same purpose, while you pre- 
pare a meringue by whipping stiff the rest of the whites, 
and then beating in the currant jelly. Cover the trifle 
with this just before dinner-time. 

APPLES AND NUTS. 

Polish the apples, and crack the nuts, unless you have 
plenty of nut-crackers. Give a knife to each apple-plate, 
and teach the children to pare them neatly for themselves, 
instead of " munching " like rabbits at family dinners, and 
being awkwardly ill at ease when " company " is present. 
Silver or ivory knives are better for fruit than steel. 



fmt 



Soupe Maigre. 

Boiled Cod. Roast Duck with Bread Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes. Rice Croquettes. 

Stewed Celery. 

Apple Pie. 

SOUPE MAIGRE. 
i quart of milk. 
3 pints of water. 
i onion. 
i turnip. 

3 stalks of celery. 

1 potato (large). 

Quarter of a small cabbage, sliced. 
J cup of bread-crumbs, very dry. 

2 eggs, beaten light. 

Parsley, pepper, and salt to taste. 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter. 



30 JANUARY. 

Clean, scrape, and mince the vegetables, and put on to 
cook in cold water, enough to cover them well. When 
they are scalding hot, drain, and cover them with three 
pints of boiling water. Stew slowly in this until they are 
reduced to pulp. Rub through a colander, season, and 
heat again to boiling. Stir in the bread-crumbs ; then the 
butter, very gradually. Have the milk ready, heated in 
another vessel, and pour into the soup- kettle at this junc- 
ture. Let the soup get very hot, but not boil. Set upon 
the side of the range, and, dipping out a cupful, add it, a 
little at a time, to the beaten eggs. When well mixed, 
return eggs and liquor to the rest of the soup ; stir over the 
fire for an instant, but never to boiling, and serve in a hot 
tureen. 

The eggs should not be allowed to curdle in the liquor ; 
hence the need of carefulness in following the directions 
above given. A little grated cheese is a pleasant accom- 
paniment to this soup, each person adding it as pleases 
him. 

BOILED COD. 

Lay the fish in cold water, a little salt, for half an hour. 
Wipe dry, and sew up in a linen cloth, coarse and clean, 
fitted to the shape of the piece of cod. Have but one fold 
over each part. Lay in the fish-kettle, cover with boiling 
water, salted at discretion. Allow nearly an hour for a 
piece weighing four pounds. 



SAUCE. 

To one gill of boiling water allow as much milk ; stir 
into this, while boiling, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
added gradually, a tablespoonful of flour wet up with cold 
water, and, as it thickens, the chopped yolk of a boiled 
egg and one raw egg, beaten light. Take directly from 
the fire, season with pepper, salt, a little chopped parsley 
and the juice of a lemon, and set, covered, in boiling water, 
but not over the fire, for five minutes, stirring occasion- 
ally. Pour part of the sauce over the fish when dished ; 
the rest in a boat. Send around mashed potatoes with it. 



FIRST WEEKFRIDAY. 31 

ROAST DUCK. 

Clean the duck very carefully, rinsing it out with a 
little soda and water, and afterwards with fresh water. Lay 
in cold, salted water for an hour. Wipe dry, inside anc* 
out, and stuff with a dressing of bread-crumbs, seasoned 
with pepper and salt, a very little powdered sage and a 
" suspicion " of minced onion. Sew up ; dash a cup of 
boiling water over them, as they lie in the dripping-pan, 
and roast, covered, for the first half-hour. Remove the 
Cover, and baste freely three times with butter and 
water, four or five times with the gravy from the pan. 
Stew the giblets in a little salted water, and reserve to 
piece out to-morrow's salmi. Dish the ducks upon a hot 
platter. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

Skim the fat well from the gravy left in the dripping- 
pan ; have ready a handful of bread-crumbs (stale), wet 
up with hot water. Thicken the gravy with these when 
it has come to a boil ; season with pepper, salt, and a 
pinch of mace. Boil all together once and serve. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

See receipt for Sunday. 

While I would spare you all waste of time and pains 
in looking up receipts in other parts of this volume, I yet 
deem it hardly worth while to write out in full the same 
directions twice for the same week or month. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

i cup of cold boiled rice. 

i teaspoonful of sugar, and half as much salt 

i teaspoonful of melted butter. 

i egg, beaten light. 

Enough milk to make the rice into stiff paste. 

Sweet lard for frying. 

Work rice, butter, egg, etc., into an adhesive paste, beat 
ing each ingredient thoroughly into the mixture. Flour 
your hands and make the rice into oval balls. Dip each 
in beaten egg, then in flour, or cracker -dust, and fry 



32 JANUARY. 

in boiling lard, a few at a time, turning each with great 
care. When the croquettes are of a fine yellow-brown, 
take out with a wire spoon and lay within a heated col- 
ander to drain off every drop of fat. Serve hot, with 
sprigs of parsley laid about them, in an uncovered dish. 

STEWED CELERY. 

Cut the celery into inch lengths ; cover with cold 
water and stew until tender. Turn off the water and sup- 
ply its place with enough milk to cover .the celery. When 
this begins to boil stir in a good lump of butter rolled in 
flour ; pepper and salt to taste, and stew gently five min- 
utes. 

You will like this vegetable thus prepared. Eat, if 
you like, with a little lemon- juice or vinegar. 

APPLE PIE. 

i quart of flour, dried and sifted. 

Ib. of lard. 

\ Ib. of butter. 

Ice-water to make stiff paste. 

Chop the lard into the dry flour. Wet with ice-water 
into stiff paste, touching as little as may be with your 
hands. Roll out very thin, always from you. Stick bits 
of butter all over the sheet ; roll up tightly as you would 
a sheet of paper. Beat flat with your rolling-pin, roll 
out again, and again baste with butter. Repeat the 
operations of rolling up, rolling out, and basting until 
your butter is used up. Set the roll of pastry in a cold, 
dry place for at least one hour. All night would not be 
too long. When it is crisp and firm, roll out and line your 
buttered pie-plates. The bottom crust should be thinner 
than the upper. And. as a rule, you would do well to 
give the roll of pastry intended for the latter a " baste " 
or two more than that meant for the lower. 

Pare, core and slice juicy, tart apples ; put a layer 
upon the inner crust, sprinkle with sugar thickly scatter 
a few cloves upon the sugar ; then another layer of ap- 
ples, and so on, until the dish is fall. Cover with crust, 



FIRST WEEK SATURDAY. 33 

pressed down firmly at the edges, and bake. Eat warm, 
or cold, with white sugar sifted over the top. 
y Apple pie is very good with cream poured over each 
slice. 



,fir0t 



Macaroni Soup. 

Ham and Eggs. Salmi of Duck. 

Fried Parsnips. Stewed Salsify. 

Sweet Potatoes in Jackets. 

Rosie's Rice Custard. 



MACARONI SOUP. 

4 quarts of cold water. 

3 Ibs. of coarse, lean beef, cut into thin strips. 
2 or 3 Ibs. of bones, broken small. 

4 onions, sliced. 

i bunch of sweet herbs, chopped. 

Tomato juice or catsup. 

J Ib. of macaroni. 

A few salt pork bones. 

Fry the meat until half done, in a very little dripping. 
Take it out and fry the onions and bones in the same 
gravy. Put all into a soup-kettle with the herbs, and 
cover with 4 quarts of water (cold). Bring to a slow 
boil, and, at the end of four hours, strain into a great 
bowl to cool, in order that the fat may rise and be taken 
off. Meanwhile, make ready your macaroni by breaking 
it into short bits, covering well with boiling water, a 
little salted, and stewing slowly twenty minutes, or until 
tender. Add a lump of butter the size of a walnut ; let 
it stand, covered, for a few minutes, while you season 
the soup, adding the tomato juice or catsup. Boil, skim, 

2* 



34 JANUARY. 

and thicken with a tablespoonful of corn-starch wet up 
with cold water. When it is again on the boil, turn in 
the macaroni, taking care not to break it. Heat to 
scalding, but do not boil ; pour out, and serve. 

HAM AND EGGS. 

Cut your slices of ham of a uniform size and shape, 
cutting off the rind. Fry quickly in their own fat. Re- 
move from the pan with a wire spoon so soon as they are 
done, and arrange upon a Hot dish, setting this within the 
open oven, or upon a pot of boiling water to keep warm. 
Drop the eggs, as you break them, into the hot fat left 
in the frying-pan. Do not put so many in as to crowd 
one another. Each egg should preserve its individuality. 
Cook about three minutes, without turning. Take up 
with a spatula, or cake-turner, and lay one upon each slice 
of ham. Do not send the gravy to table. Strain, and use 
for dripping. 

SALMI OF DUCK. 

From the cold ducks left after yesterday's dinner cut 
all the meat in as neat slices as you can, leaving the 
joints of legs and wings whole. Take off the skin ; break 
the carcass into pieces, and put these, with the stuffing, 
into a saucepan with a fried onion, some sweet herbs, 
pepper, salt, and a pinch of allspice! Cover with cold 
water and stew gently, after it reaches the boil, for one 
hour. Cool, that the fat may rise and be taken" off. 
Strain the gravy when you have skimmed it ; return to 
the saucepan, boil and skim again, and stir in two table- 
spoonfuls of browned flour, wet with cold water ; lastly, 
stir in a great spoonful of butter. Stew five minutes long- 
er, and put in the meat. Draw to one side of the range, 
and set, closely covered, in a pot of boiling water for ten 
minutes. The meat must be thoroughly heated and 
steeped in the gravy, but not boil. Take the meat out 
with a perforated spoon, pile neatly upon a dish and pour 
the gravy over it. Garnish with triangles of stale bread 
fried crisp, and send a piece to each person who is helped 
to salmi. 



FIRST WEEK S A TURD A Y. 35 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 

Boil, until tender, in hot water slightly salted ; let them 
get almost cold, scrape off the skin, and cut in thick, 
long slices. Dredge with flour and fry in hot dripping, 
turning as they brown. Drain very dry in a hot colan- 
der ; pepper and salt and serve. 

STEWED SALSIFY. 

Scrape the roots, dropping each into cold water as you 
do this, that they may not change color. Cut in pieces 
an inch long ; cover with hot water and stew until tender. 
Drain off two-thirds of the water and add enough milk to 
cover the salsify. Stew ten minutes in this ; put in a 
good lump of butter rolled thickly in flour. Pepper and 
salt. Boil up for one minute. 

SWEET POTATOES IN JACKETS. 

Parboil in their skins when you have washed them, se- 
lecting such as are of like size. Then put in a moderate 
oven and bake until soft all through. You can ascer- 
tain this by pinching the largest. Wipe off and serve in 
their skins. 

ROSIE'S RICE CUSTARD. 

i quart of milk. 

3 eggs, well beaten. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
i tablespoonful of butter, 
i cup boiled rice. 

A little salt. 

Half the grated rind of a lemon. 

Boil the rice, drain, and stir, while hot, into the milk. 
Beat the eggs well ; rub butter and sugar to a cream with 
lemon-peel and a little salt, and stir into the warm milk. 
Mix well and bake in a buttered dish in a brisk oven. 
Eat warm or cold. We like it better warm, with a little 
cream poured over it when served in saucers. 



36 . JANUARY. 

Beconir QJak. Sunbag. 

Soupe au Julienne. 

Roast Turkey. Cranberry Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes, Browned. Stewed Corn. 

Celery. 

Tropical Snow. 
Light Cakes and Coffee. 

SOUPE AU JULIENNE. 

6 Ibs. of lean beef. If possible, get it from the shin 
and have the accompanying bones cracked to bits. 

6 quarts of water cold. 

Prepare the stock on Saturday. Put meat and bones 
into a pot with a close cover, pour on the water, and set 
it where it will heat very slowly. Boil, also very slowly, 
six hours, at the back of the range. Should the water sink 
fast in the pot, replenish from the boiling tea-kettle. At 
the end of six hours, turn the soup, meat, bones and all, 
into an earthenware vessel ; pepper and salt it and set on 
the cellar floor, covered, until next day. Take off, then, 
the cake of excellent dripping from the top ; strain the 
soup and set over the fire, about an hour before dinner, 
and heat gradually. 

The vegetables should be 

2 carrots. 

3 turnips. 

Half a head of cabbage. 

i pint Shaker corn, soaked overnight. 

6 stalks of celery. 

i quart of tomatoes. 

i large onion. 

Clean, scrape, and mince all these, except the corn 
and tomatoes. Cut the carrot into dice and stew, by it- 
self, in a little cold water. Boil the corn in enough water 
to cover it, and add more hot water as it swells. Cover 



SECOND WEEK SUNDAY. 37 

the minced vegetables with cold water, and so soon as it 
boils, turn it off, and replenish with boiling, from the ket- 
tle. This will take away the rank taste from cabbage and 
onion. When they are soft enough to pulp, strain well, 
but without pressing, into the soup. It is needless to 
add the vegetables, as the strength is in the liquor. Boil 
up and skim the soup before putting in the boiled corn 
and the canned tomatoes, which should be cut up small, 
and the unripe parts removed. Boil fifteen minutes, add 
the carrot, season to taste, and serve.* 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Rinse out the turkey well with soda and water ; then 
with salt, lastly with fair water. Stuff with a dressing 
made of bread-crumbs, wet up with butter and water and 
seasoned to your taste. Stuff the craw and tie up the 
neck. Fill the body and sew up the vent. I need hardly 
say that these strings are to be clipped and removed after 
the fowl is roasted. Tie the legs to the lower part of the 
body that they may not " sprawl," as the sinews shrink. 
Put into the dripping-pan, pour a teacupful of boiling 
water over it, and roast, basting often, allowing about ten 
minutes' time for every pound. Be careful not to have 
your oven too hot especially during the first half-hour or 
so. The turkey would, otherwise, be dry and blackened 
on the outside and raw within. And remember how 
much of the perfection of roasting meats and poultry de- 
pends upon basting faithfully. Boil the giblets tender in 
a little water. When the turkey is done, set it where it 
will keep warm ; skim the gravy left in the pan ; add a 
little boiling water ; thicken slightly with browned flour ; 
boil up once and add the giblets minced fine. Season to 
taste ; give another boil, and send to table in a gravy- 
boat. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Wash and pick over the cranberries ; put on to cook 
in a tin or porcelain vessel, allowing a teacupful of water 

* As I have mentioned in " Breakfast, Luncheon, and Tea," you 
can spare yourselves the trouble of preparing the vegetables for this 
%oup by buying those shred and dried for this purpose, put up ill 
packages and sold by grocers. 



38 JANUARY. 

to each quart. Stew slowly, stirring often until they are 
as thick as 'marmalade. Take from the fire in little over 
an hour, if they have cooked steadily, sweeten plentifully 
with white sugar, and strain through coarse tarlatan, or 
mosquito-net, into a mould wet with cold water. 

Do this on Saturday. On Sunday, turn out into a glass 
dish. 

MASHED POTATOES BROWNED. 

Having mashed them in the usual manner, mound 
them smoothly upon a shallow earthenware dish and set 
them in a quick oven, glazing them with butter as they 
color. They should be of a light brown. Slip the 
mound from a coarser to a finer platter by the help of 
your cake-turner. It is still better if you have one of 
the pretty " enamelled " bake-dishes lined with porcelain, 
with silver stands for the table. They are invaluable for 
puddings, scallops, etc. 

STEWED CORN. 

Stew one quart of canned corn in its own liquor, set- 
ting the vessel containing it in an outer, of hot water. 
Should the corn be exceptionally dry, add a little cold 
water. When tender, pour in enough milk to cover the 
corn, bring to a boil, and put in a tablespoonful of butter 
rolled in flour, and salt to taste. Stew gently, stirring 
well, three or four minutes, and turn into a deep dish. 
Keep the vessel containing the corn closely covered while 
it is cooking. The steam facilitates the process and pre- 
serves the color of the corn. 



CELERY 

Is the usual accompaniment of roast turkey. Prepare 
by selecting the blanched stalks, scraping off the rust, cut- 
ting off all but the youngest and tenderest tops, and laying 
these in cold water to crisp until wanted for the table. 
Garnish your turkey with alternate light and dark green 
sprigs of celery. 



SECOND WEEK MONDAY. 39 

TROPICAL SNOW. 

8 sweet oranges. 

i grated cocoanut. 

i glass of pale sherry. 

i cup of powdered sugar. 

5 red bananas. 

Peel and cut the oranges into small pieces by dividing 
each lobe crosswise into thirds. Extract the seeds and 
put a layer of the fruit in the bottom of a glass dish. 
Pour a little wine upon it, and strew with powdered sugar. 
The cocoanut must have been prepared by removing the 
rind and throwing it into cold water for some time before 
grating it. Over the layer of oranges spread one of cocoa- 
nut ; cut the bananas into very thin, round slices, and lay 
these, one deep, upon the cocoanut. Repeat the order 
just given until your dish is full and the oranges and bana- 
nas used up. The top layer must be of cocoanut, heaped 
high, sprinkled with powdered sugar and garnished about 
the base with slices of banana. Eat soon, as the oranges 
toughen in the wine. 

Supplement this pretty, but not substantial dessert by a 
salver of lady's-fingers, and macaroons, and a good cup of 
coffee. 



Seronir tDeek. fttonfoag. 

Next Day's Soup. 

Turkey Scallop. Panned Oysters. 

Roast Potatoes. Tomato Sauce. 

Floating Island. 
Tea. 



NEXT DAY'S SOUP. 

Julienne soup, like most other soups the base of which 
is meat, is better when warmed over the second day. Set 



4O JANUARY. 

it over the fire where it will heat, not too quickly, almosi 
to a boiL It will not " put back " the business of the 
day twent) minutes, and be a welcome addition to your 
dinner. 

TURKEY SCALLOP. 

Cut the meat from yesterday's turkey. .Crack the car 
cass to pieces, and put, with bits of skin, fat, and gristle, 
into a saucepan ; cover with cold water, and set on to stew 
slowly into gravy. Chop the meat very fine ; strew the 
bottom of a greased bake-dish with crumbs, and cover 
this with a thick stratum of minced turkey, stuffing, and 
tiny bits of butter. Pepper and salt, and put on more 
crumbs, then meat, and so on. Stale bread is better for 
this scallop than cracker-dust. Having used up all your 
meat and reserved enough crumbs for a thick upper crust, 
cover the dish and put aside in a cool place until your 
gravy is ready. It is economy of time, on Monday, to 
slip in such work as this between the many " must be's " 
of the season. Your scallop will be none the worse for 
waiting some hours before, or after, the gravy is added, 
provided you keep it covered. When the gravy has drawn 
all the substance from bones, etc., strain it and return to 
the saucepan with what was left in yesterday's gravy-boat, 
having first skimmed the latter. Boil up, thicken with 
browned flour wet up with cold water ; bring to another 
boil ; pour over the scallop, saving a little to wet the top. 
Now comes your layer of fine bread-crumbs. Wet these 
with the gravy in a bowl, season to taste, beat to a soft 
paste with a couple of eggs and spread evenly over the 
scallop. Invert a plate over the bake-dish and set in the 
oven. When, at the end of half an hour or so, the gravy 
bubbles up at the sides, remove the cover and brown. 
Serve in the pudding-dish. 



PANNED OYSTERS. 

A four-course dinner is hardly in order in most house- 
holds on Monday. You can, if you like, and have an effi- 
cient table-waiter, bring on oysters, as usual, between soup 
and meat. But there will be no violation of the " unities 



SECOND WEEK MONDAY. 4* 

of the drama" of a family dinner, if you send around >oui 
oysters, scallop, and vegetables together. 

i quart of oysters. 
Some thin slices of toast. 
Butter, salt, and pepper. 

Have ready some " patty pans " the more nearly upright 
the sides the better. Cut stale bread in rounds to fit the 
bottoms of these. Toast, and lay a piece in each. Wet 
with oyster liquor and put into each pan as many oysters 
as it will conveniently hold. Pepper and salt ; put a bit 
of butter upon each ; arrange all in a large dripping-pan ; 
invert another of the same size over it, and bake eight 
minutes, or until the oysters "ruffle." Send hot to table 
in the pans. 

You can toast the bread at breakfast-time if you choose. 
The oysters can go into the oven when the soup is poured 
out, and be in good season on the table. By this arrange- 
ment they will not interfere with the other "baked meats." 
Panned oysters are always popular, and there is no more 
simple manner of cooking this favorite shell-fish. 



ROAST POTATOES. 

Choose large, fair potatoes, wash and wipe, and bake 
until soft to the grasp. Three-quarters of an hour should 
suffice. Take out, before the oysters go in ; wipe off dust 
and ashes, and serve in a heated napkin. This will keep 
them hot a long time, yet prevent them from." sweating." 



TOMATO SAUCE. 

Open a can of tomatoes at least one hour before it is to 
be used, and empty into an earthenware basin, that no 
close or metallic taste may linger about them. Cook in 
tin or porcelain. Stew half an hour, gently ; add salt, 
pepper, a teaspoonful of sugar, and three of butter, a 
handful of dry bread-crumbs or, if you have any stewed 
corn left from yesterday, use that instead of bread. Cook 
ten minutes longer, and turn out. 



42 JANUARY. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

1 quart of milk. 

4 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 
4 tablespoonfuls (great ones) of sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls extract of bitter almond or vanilla. 

(COLGATE'S extracts are the best in market, and do 
not spoil within a few days after they are uncorked, 
as the manner of some is.) 
\ cup of currant jelly. 

Heat the milk to scalding, but not boiling. Beat the 
yolks, stir into them the sugar, and pour upon them, 
gradually and mixing well, a cupful of the hot milk. Re- 
turn to the saucepan and boil until it begins to thicken. 
You can do this while breakfast is cooking, before the 
Moloch clothes-boiler goes on. When cool, flavor -and 
pour into a glass dish. Heap upon the top a meringue 
of the whites whipped until you can cut it, into which 
you have beaten the jelly, a teaspoonful at a time. 

TEA. 

" A comfortable cup of tea " never comes amiss to a 
fagged housewife, be it served at breakfast, luncheon, or 
dinner. The best way to insure its goodness that is, 
that it be strong, hot and fresh is to have your own tea- 
urn or kettle on the table, with a spirit-lamp burning 
under it. Scald the tea-pot, put in the tea ; cover with 
boiling water ; put a " cosey " or a thick napkin about it, 
and let it stand five minutes before filling with more 
boiling water. Wait a minute longer and pour out. 



SECOND WEEK TUESDAY. 43 



geeonir 



Mutton Soup with Tapioca. 

Salmon Pudding. Beefsteak. 

Potatoes a la Lyonnaise. Macaroni with Cheese. 

Susie's Bread Pudding. 

MUTTON SOUP WITH TAPIOCA. 

3 Ibs. perfectly lean mutton. The scrag makes good 

soup and costs little. 

2 or 3 Ibs. of bones, well pounded. 

1 onion. 

2 turnips. 
2 carrots. 

2 stalks of celery. 

A few sprigs of parsley. If you have any tomatoes 
left from yesterday, add them. 

4 tablespoonfuls of pearl or granulated tapioca (not 

heaping spoonfuls). 
4 quarts of water. 

Put on the meat, cut in small pieces, with the bones, 
in two quarts of cold water. Heat very slowly, and 
when it boils pour in two quarts of hoi water from the 
kettle. Chop the vegetables ; cover with cold water. So 
soon as they begin to simmer, throw off the first water, 
replenishing with hot, and stew until they are boiled to 
pieces. The meat should cook steadily, never fast, five 
hours, keeping the pot-lid on. Strain into a great bowl ; 
let it cool to throw the .fat to the surface ; skim and re- 
turn to the fire. Season with pepper and salt, boil up, 
take off the scum ; add the vegetables with their liquor. 
Heat together ten minutes, strain again, and bring to a 
slow boil before the tapioca goes in. This should have 
been soaked one hour in cold water, then cooked in the 
same within another vessel of boiling water until each 
grain is clear. It is necessary to stir up often from the 



44 JANUARY. 

bottom while cooking. Stir gradually into the soup until 
the tapioca is dissolved. 

Send around grated cheese with this soup. 

SALMON PUDDING. 
i can preserved salmon. 

3 e gg s * 

4 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

cup fine bread-crumbs. 
Pepper, salt, and minced parsley. 

Mince the fish, draining off the liquor for the sauce. 
Rub in the butter until thoroughly incorporated. Work 
in the crumbs, the seasoning, at last the beaten eggs. 
Put into a buffered pudding-mould, set in a dripping-pan 
full of hot water. Cover the mould, and steam in the 
oven, keeping the water in the pan at a fast boil, filling up 
as it evaporates, for one hour. Set it in cold water one 
minute when you have taken it from the oven. This will 
make it shrink from the sides and turn out easily upon a 
flat dish. 

SAUCE FOR THE ABOVE. 

i cupful of milk heated to a boil and thickened with a 
tablespoonful of corn-starch, previously wet up 
with cold water. 

The liquor from the salmon. 

i great spoonful of butter. 

i raw egg, beaten light. 

Juice of half a lemon. 

Mace and cayenne pepper to taste. 

Put the egg irito the thickened milk when you have 
stirred in the butter and liquor ; take from the fire, season, 
and let it stand in hot water three minutes, covered. 
Lastly, put in the lemon-juice and turn out immediately. 
Pour it all over and about the pudding. Cut the latter 
into slices when helping it out. 

BEEFSTEAK. 

First of all, let me recommend the plan of broiling a 
steak under, instead of over the grate. I have found so 



SECOND WEEK TUESDAY. 45 

many and manifest advantages in the former method that 
I have had a gridiron made to fit beneath my range. 

Wipe the steak dry, and broil upon a buttered gridiron, 
turning frequently, whenever it begins to drip. When 
done, which should be in twelve minutes, if your fire is 
clear and strong, lay upon a hot dish a chafing-dish is 
best season with pepper and salt (not until then), 
and butter very liberally. Put over it a hot cover, and 
wait five minutes before sending to table, to draw the 
juices to the surface and allow the seasoning to pene- 
trate the steak. 

POTATOES X LA LYONNAISE. 

Parboil a dozen potatoes at breakfast-time, and set 
aside, when you have peeled them, as they should get 
perfectly cold. When you are ready to cook them, heat 
some butter, or good dripping, in a frying-pan ; fry in it 
one small onion, chopped, fine, until it begins to change 
color say about one minute. Then put in the potatoes, 
cut into dice, not too thick or broad. Stir well and cook 
five minutes, taking care the potatoes do not break to 
pieces. They must not brown. Put in some minced 
parsley just before taking them up. Drain dry by shaking 
in a heated colander. Serve very hot. 

MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 

Cook half a pound of pipe macaroni, broken into inch 
lengths, in boiling water until tender. Drain this off, and 
substitute a cupful of cold milk. When the macaroni has 
again come to a boil, season with pepper and salt and stir 
in a great spoonful of butter ; lastly, two tablespconfuls 
of dry, grated cheese. Turn into a deep dish, strew moie 
cheese thickly over it, and it is ready for use. 

SUSIE'S BREAD PUDDING. 
i quart of milk. 
4 eggs. 

3 cups very fine, dry bread-crumbs, 
i tablespoonful of melted butter. 
i teacupful white sugar. 
Juice and half the grated peel of a lemon. 



46 JANUARY. 

Rub butter and sugar together. Beat the yolks of the 
four eggs and the white of one very light ; mix the butter 
and sugar with these. Soak the crumbs in the milk, and 
beat in with the other ingredients, hard and fast. Add 
the lemon last. Bake in a buttered dish. When nearly 
done and fully " set," even in the middle, spread with a 
meringue made of the reserved whites, beaten stiff with 
a little sugar. It is good eaten warm not really hot 
or cold, especially if a little cream be poured over each 
saucerful. 



tiftttk. 



Bean Soup. 

Fillet of Veal, Stuffed. Baked Corn. 

Potato Cakes. Canned String-Beans. 

Baked Apple Dumplings. 
. Brandy Sauce. 

BEAN SOUP. 

Soak a quart of dried beans all night in soft water. 
Throw this off next morning, and cover the beans for two 
hours in water a little more than lukewarm. Put over 
the fire with five quarts of cold water, and one pound of 
salt pork. A -bone of veal or beef may be added, if you 
have it. Boil slowly for at least four hours : shred into 
it a small onion, four stalks of celery, pepper the pork 
may salt it sufficiently simmer half an hour longer, rub 
through a colander until only husks and fibres remain, and 
send to table. Pass sliced lemon with it. 

FILLET OF VEAL STUFFED. 

Make ready a force-meat of bread-crumbs, chopped 
thyme and parsley ; pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg \ 



SECOND WEEK WEDNESDAY. 47 

a little dripping for shortening ; moisten with warm water 
and bind with a raw egg. 

If your butcher has not "put up" the fillet, remove 
the bone, pin the meat into a round with skewers ; then 
bind firmly with a strip of muslin passed two or three 
times about it. Fill the cavity left by the bone with 
dressing, and thrust the same between the folds of the 
meat, besides making cuts with a sharp knife to receive 
more. Tuck in a strip of fat pork here and there. Baste 
three times with salt and water while roasting, afterwards 
with its own gravy. At last, dredge once with flour and 
baste with butter. Cut the bands, draw out the skewers 
carefully, and serve. 

BAKED CORN. 

To one can of corn allow a pint of milk (more if the corn 
be dry), three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 
one of white sugar, pepper and salt to taste. Beat the 
eggs very light, rub butter and sugar together and stir in 
hard ; next, the corn and seasoning ; finally, the milk. 
Beat hard, and bake in a buttered dish for half an hour, 
covered. Then brown by lifting the top. Send up in 
the bake-dish. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Boil and mash the potatoes, working in salt and butter 
and an egg or two beaten light. Let them get cold ; 
make into cakes of size and shape to suit yourself; roll 
in raw egg, then in flour, or cracker-dust, and fry quickly 
in hot dripping. Take each up as soon as it is done, and 
drain with a wire spoon, before laying upon a hot dish. 

CANNED STRING-BEANS. 

Cook in their own liquor half an hour, or until very 
tender. First, however, cut them into neat lengths. 
The comeliness of the dish depends upon this. When 
almost done, stir in a tablespoon ful of butter, with salt 
and pepper. Simmer ten minutes longer, and serve by 
draining off the liquid and heaping the beans upon a hot 
dish, with a bit of butter on the top. If the can does not 



4$ JANUARY. 

contain liquor enough to cover the beans, add a little 
cold water in cooking them. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

i quart prepared flour. 

i tablespoonful of butter and the same of lard. 

i pint of milk. 

i saltspoonful of salt. 

Some ripe apples. 

- Chop the shortening into the flour when you have sifted 
and salted the latter. Wet up with milk and roll out 
quickly in a sheet less than half an inch thick. Cut into 
squares ; lay in the centre of each a tart, juicy apple, 
pared and cored. Bring the corners of the square to- 
gether and pinch to join them neatly. Lay in a baking- 
pan, the joined edges downward, and bake to a fine 
brown. When done, brush over with butter and shut the 
oven-door for a minute more to glaze them. Sift powdered 
sugar over them, and eat hot. 

These are more wholesome and more easily prepared 
than boiled dumplings. Eat with sweet sauce. 

BRANDY SAUCE. 

2 cups of powdered sugar. 

j- cup of butter. 

i wineglass of brandy. That from brandied peaches 

the liqueur, if you have it. 
i teaspoonful mixed cinnamon and mace. 

Warm the butter slightly, work in the sugar until they 
form a rich cream, when add brandy and spice. Beat 
hard ; shape by putting into a mould made very wet with 
cold water, and set in a cool place to harden. Should it 
not turn out readily by shaking gently, d'p for a second 
in hot water. 



SECOND WEEK THURSDAY. 49 



Veal and Sago Soup. 

Jugged Rabbit. Scalloped Potatoes. 

Sweet Potatoes, Fried. Minced Celery with Egg Dress jng. 

Macaroni and Almond Pudding. 

VEAL AND SAGO SOUP. 
3 Ibs. veal. 
\ Ib. pearl sago. 

3 quarts of water. 

4 eggs. 

i pint of milk. 

Cut the meat into bits ; put on with the water and boil 
very slowly, with the pot-lid laid on loosely, four hours, 
until the meat is in rags. Strain through coarse net, or a 
wire soup-strainer (which you ought to possess), season 
with pepper and salt, and return to the kettle when you 
have scalded it out. . 

Meanwhile, the sago should have been washed and 
soaked in lukewarm water, for an hour. .Stir it into the 
broth and let them simmer, stirring often, half an hour. 
Heat the milk scalding hot in another vessel, beat the 
yolks of the eggs light, reserving the whites for your 
pudding; pour gradually over these a cupful of the hot 
milk, and stir carefully into the soup with all the milk. 
Taste, to see if it needs more seasoning ; add a little 
Chopped parsley, if you like ; let it almost boil and pour 
into the tureen. It should be about as thick as boiled 
custard. Should the sago thicken it too much, add boil- 
\ng water. 

A relishful and wholesome soup. 

JUGGED RABBIT. 

i full-grown but tender rabbit or hare. 
Ib. corned ham. 
i cup of good gravy, saved from yesterday's roast. 



50 JANUARY. 

Dripping for frying. 

i onion, sliced. 

Juice of i lemon. 

i tablespoonful currant jelly. 

Parsley, pepper and salt, and browned flour. 
Joint the rabbit, and lay for an hour in salted water. 
Wipe dry and fry in the dripping, with the onion, until 
brown. Put in the bottom of a tin pail, or farina-kettle, 
a layer of salt pork cut into strips ; upon this one of 
rabbit. Sprinkle with pepper and a little salt. Scatter 
fried onion over the rabbit and proceed in this order un- 
til your meat is used up. Pour in the gravy ; cover 
the vessel, and set it in another of cold water. Bring 
gradually to a boil and stew steadily one hour, or until 
tender. Arrange the meat upon a dish ; strain the gravy, 
thicken with browned flour wet up with cold water ; boil 
up once ; stir in the jelly and lemon-juice, heat to boiling, 
and pour over the rabbit. If you have no gravy, use a 
little butter and water instead. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

3 cups mashed potato. 

3 tablespoonfuls of milk. 

3 hard-boiled eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

i handful very dry bread-crumbs. 

Salt. 

Work butter, milk, and salt into the hot mashed potatoes. 
Put a layer in the bottom of a pudding-dish well greased ; 
cover this with thin slices of egg ; salt and pepper ; an- 
other stratum of potato, and so on, until the dish is full. 
Strew bread-crumbs thickly over the uppermost layer of 
potatoes. Stick bits of butter over this and bake, covered, 
until hot throughout; then brown quickly. Send up in 
the pudding-dish. 

A simple and nice side-dish. 

SWEET POTATOES FRIED. 

Boil, peel, and when cold, slice the potatoes neatly. 
Fry in good dripping until they are of a light brown 
Drain from the fat and eat hot. 



SECOND WEEK THURSDAY. 5 1 

MINCED CELERY WITH EGG DRESSING. 
Scrape and wash the celery and cut into half-inch 
lengths, having first crisped it. in cold water. Rub the 
yolks of two hard-boiled eggs to a paste with a tablespoon- 
ful of oil ; add salt, pepper, a little powdered sugar, 
vinegar to make the mixture liquid, and pour over the 
celery Serve in a salad-bowl and eat at once, lest the 
celery should toughen in the vinegar. 

MACARONI AND ALMOND PUDDING. 
J Ib. macaroni. 
3 pints of milk. 

1 cup of white sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
5 eggs. 

\ Ib. sweet almonds, blanched and chopped. 
Rose-water and bitter almond flavoring. 
A little salt and nutmeg. 

Simmer the macaroni half an hour in a pint of the milk. 
When tender, but not broken, put in butter and salt. 
Take the saucepan from the fire and turn out the con- 
tents to cool while you make a custard of the rest of the 
milk, the eggs and sugar. Add the latter to the scalding 
milk, but do not boil the custard. Chop the almonds 
when you have blanched them, /. <?., taken off the skins 
with boiling water. As you chop, put in a few drops of 
rose-water from time to time, to prevent oiling. When 
the macaroni is almost cold, mix it with the custard, 
breaking it as little as may be. Season, and last of all, 
stir in the chopped almonds. Bake in a well-buttered 
pudding-di^h. Spread with the meringue made from the 
whites of the eggs reserved from the soup. Eat warm 
with powdered sugar and cinnamon. 



52 JANUARY. 



ttkek. JTriirag. 



Fish Chowder. 

Fricasseed Chicken, White. Potatoes a I'ltalienne. 

Tomatoes Stewed with Onion. Cheese Fondu. 

Sponge Gingerbread. 
Chocolate. 



FISH CHOWDER. 

3 Ibs. of cod, cut into strips an inch thick and four 
inches long, and freed from bone so far as is pos 
sible without breaking the fish. 

1 pint of oysters. 

2 large onions cut into thin slices. 

About Ib. Boston crackers, split, and buttered thickly. 

Pepper and salt. 

i cup of milk. 

Parsley. 

Cover the bottom of your soup-kettle with the fish ; 
pepper and salt ; strew with sliced onion, and this with the 
split crackers, buttered sides down. Follow this order until 
your ingredients are all in the pot, and cover them with 
cold water. Stew gently for an hour, keeping the water 
at the original level by replenishing from the tea-kettle. 
By this time the fish should be thoroughly done, if it has 
cooked steadily. Take it up with a perforated skimmer, 
and cover in the tureen to keep hot, while you strain the 
chowder to get out the bones, returning the crackers with 
the liquor to the soup-kettle, when you have rinsed it out. 
Thicken with two teaspoonfuls of corn-starch wet up 
in a cup of milk, and when this has boiled, add the oys- 
ters, cut small, two great spoonfuls of butter, and a little 
chopped parsley. Stew for three minutes, pour slowly 
over the fish in the tureen. Send sliced lemon around with 
it. 

This is a most palatable chowder when properly pre- 
pared. You can use fewer crackers, if von Dislike a thick 
soup. 



SECOND WEEK FRIDAY. 53 

FRICASSEED CHICKEN WHITE. 
One pair of full-grown fowls. 
\ Ib. salt pork cut into strips. 
2 eggs. 

1 cupful of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour and the same of butter, 
i onion. 

Parsley, pepper and salt. 

Joint the fowls neatly,. and cut the back, neck, and 
breast apart from each other, the latter into two pieces. 
Lay them in salt water for half an hour. Put^ them into 
a pot with enough cold water to cover them, and the 
pork cut into thin strips. Cover and heat very slow>y. 
Stew constantly, but never fast, for one hour after it 
comes to a boil, or until the chickens are tender. The 
time will depend upon their age. If they are tough, put 
them on early and cook all the more slowly. Add now 
the onion, parsley, and pepper, with salt, if needed. 
Heat again, and stir in the flour wet up in the cup of 
milk. Beat the egg's and pour upon them a cupful of 
hot gravy ; mix well, and put back into the soup with the 
butter. Just as the stew begins to simmer again, remove 
from the fire. Take out and pile the chicken upoi* a 
dish ; then pour the gravy over all. 

POTATOES A L'ITALIENNE. 

Instead of mashing the potatoes with a beetle or spoon, 
whip them up light with a silver fork. When they are 
fine and mealy, beat in a few spoonfuls of milk, a table- 
spoonful of butter, the yolks of two eggs, pepper and salt. 
Whip into a creamy heap before adding, with a few Dex- 
terous strokes, the stiffly-frothed whites. Pile roughly up 
on a buttered pie-dish ; brown quickly in the oven, and 
transfer, with the help of a cake-turner, to a flat dish. 

Make a rather too abundant dish, according to this re- 
ceipt, as the residue will be found useful in to-morrow's 
bill of fare. 

TOMATOES STEWED WITH ONION. 
Stew in the usual manner, adding a small onion minced 
fine. When they have cooked half an hour, season with 



54 JANUARY. 

pepper, salt, a little sugar, and a good spoonful of butter, 
Simmer ten minutes more, uncovered, and turn out. 

CHEESE FONDU. <* 

1 cup of bread-crumbs, dry and fine. 

2 scant cups of fresh milk. 

J- Ib. dry, rich cheese, grated. 

3 eggs, whipped light. 

i tablespoonful of melted butter. 
Pepper and salt. 

A. pinch of soda, dissolved in hot water. 
Soak the crumbs in the milk ; beat in the eggs, the but- 
ter, seasoning lastly, the cheese. Pour into a neat pud- 
ding-dish, strew dry bread-crumbs over the top, and bake 
in a quick oven until delicately browned. Serve in the 
pudding-dish, and at once, as it falls in cooling. 
Very good ! 

SPONGE GINGERBREAD. 

5 cups of flour, dried and sifted. Measure after sifting. 

1 cup of molasses. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
i cup of sugar. 

1 rather larger cup of sour, or buttermilk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of saleratus (not soda), dissolved in hot 

water. 

2 teaspoonfuls ginger. 

i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

Mix molasses, sugar, butter, and spice together. Warm 
slightly, and beat hard for five minutes. Add the milk, 
then the soda, lastly the flour. Beat three minutes, and 
bake in a broad, shallow pan. Take heed that it does not 
burn. Eat warm. 

CHOCOLATE. 

6 tablespoonfuls of chocolate to each pint of boiling 

water. 

As much milk as you have chocolate. 
Sweeten to taste. 

Rub the chocolate smooth in a little cold water, and 
stir into the hot. Boil twenty minutes ; put in the milk, 



SECOND WEEK SATURDAY. 5$ 

and boil five minutes more, stirring often. Sweeten a/ 
pleasure, while boiling, or in the cups. Send around with 
the warm gingerbread and some slices of mild cheese. 
You will not regret not having prepared a more pretentious 
dessert. 



Seccmb iDeek. 



Clear Gravy Soup. 
Oyster Salad. Calf's Liver a la Mode. 

Salsify Fritters. Ftetatoes a la Duchesse. 



Corn-meal Fruit Pudding. 

CLEAR GRAVY SOUP. 

5 Ibs. lean beef, the coarser parts, of course. 
Some bones. 

2 slices of lean corned ham. 
2 carrots. 
2 turnips. 

6 stalks of celery. 

J package Coxe's gelatine. 

Pepper and salt. 

A bunch of sweet herbs. 

Dripping. 

5 quarts of cold water. 

Cut the meat into dice and slice the onions. Fry the 
latter brown in some good dripping. Take them out, and 
fry the meat in the same fat, turning often, until it has a 
thick brown coat. Put it, drained from the fat, into the 
soup-kettle, with two quarts of cold water, and set where 
it will come to a boil in about an hour. The bones should 
also be fried, and put into the pot with the meat. When 
these fairly boil, skim, add three quarts of cold water, and 
stew gently four hours. If you dine early, the soup should 
go on before breakfast. Put herbs and vegetables, in- 
cluding the fried onions, all chopped up, into a saucepan, 



56 JANUARY. 

with enough cold water to cover them, and boil to pieces. 
Strain the soup half an hour before dinner ; season, re- 
turn to the pot ; boil and skim. Strain the vegetable 
liquor into it, without squeezing or rubbing. Boil up 
once more, skim well, and put in the gelatine, which 
should have soaked one hour in a little cold water. Sim- 
mer five minutes and pour out. 

The soup should be of a clear, light brown. Should the 
color not suit you, burn a tablespoonful of sugar in a tin 
cup, add three or four spoonfuls of boiling water, stir until 
you get a deep color, and turn off the water into the soup. 
It will not injure the flavor. 

Please never lose sight of the cardinal principle that all 
the essence, strength,and taste should be extracted from 
meat, vegetables, etc., in soup-making, and that the soup 
which boils fast is lost. Take plenty of time, and cast an 
eye into the kitchen from hour to hour until you have edu- 
cated your cook up to a glimmering appreciation of this 
law of enlightened cookery. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

i quart of oysters, cut, not chopped, into small piece:.. 

i bunch of celery, also cut small. 

i tablespoonful best oil. 

i small spoonful of salt, and the same of pepper, like- 
wise of mustard (made). 

J cup cider vinegar. 

Saltspoonful of powdered sugar. 

Drain the liquor from the oysters and cut them up. 
Add the minced celery. Prepare the seasoning, putting in 
the vinegar last, and pour the mixture over the celery and 
oysters. Toss up well with a silver fork. Do this, just 
before dinner, as the salad will be injured by lying long in 
the dressing. 

CALF'S LIVER A LA MODE. 

1 calf s liver. 

Ib. fat salt pork. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, or dripping. 
2 small onions. 

i tablespoonful chopped parsley and marjoram. 



SECOND WEEK -SATURDAY. 57 

2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

i teaspoonful mixed cloves, mace, and allspice. 

i tablespoonful Worcestershire sauce. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

Wash the liver thoroughly, and soak half an hour in 
salted water. Wipe, make incisions about an inch apart, 
and lard with strips of pork, projecting slightly on each 
side. Fry the onions and herbs in the dripping. Take 
them out, put in the liver, and fry both sides to a light 
brown. Turn all into a saucepan, with the vinegar and 
water to cover the liver barely. Cover closely, and stew 
gently an hour and a half. Lay the liver on a hot dish, strain 
the gravy, return to the fire, thicken with a tablespoonful 
of browned flour, put in the sauce and spice ; boil up and 
pour some of it over the liver, the rest into a gravy-boat. 
What is left from dinner will be nice for luncheon or tea, 
cut horizontally in thin slices. 

SALSIFY FRITTERS. 

1 bunch salsify. 

2 eggs. 

cup milk. 

Flour for thin batter. 

Lard, or dripping. 

Salt to taste. 

Scrape and grate the roots, and stir into a batter made 
of the beaten eggs, the milk, and flour. Grate the salsify 
directly into this, that it may not blacken by exposure to 
the air. Salt, and drop a spoonful into the boiling fat to 
see if it is of the right consistency. As fast as you fry the 
fritters, throw into a hot colander to drain. One great 
spoonful of batter should make a fritter. 

POTATOES A LA DUCHESSE. 

Cut the remnants of yesterday's potatoes a I Italienne 
into rounds with a cake-cutter, dipped in cold water. Set 
like biscuits, but not so near as to touch one another, in 
a greased pan, and bake quickly, brushing top and sides 
with beaten egg when they begin to brown. Serve upon 
a heated napkin folded flat, on a platter. 
3* 



5 JANUARY. 

CORN-MEAL FRUIT PUDDING. 
i heaping cup white Indian meal. 

3 pints of milk. 
i cup of flour. 

4 beaten eggs. 

1 cup of white sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

J- Ib. of raisins, seeded and cut in two. 

i teaspoonful of salt, and same of mixed mace and cin- 
namon. 

i teaspoonful of soda, and two teaspoonfuls of cream 
of tartar, sifted twice with the flour. 

Scald a pint of milk and wet up the meal with it, stirring 
well. While it is cooling, add the flour, wet into batter 
with a pint of cold milk. Heat the remaining pint, and 
when scalding, add sugar and eggs. Beat this gradually, 
hard and long, into the cooled paste. When well mixed, 
put in butter, spice, and the fruit dredged with flour. 
Beat fast and deep for two minutes. Bake in a buttered 
dish, in a tolerably brisk oven. Cover with paper as it 
brow as. It ought to be done in three-quarters of an hour. 
Eat Uot, with butter and sugar. 



l)u*j& ftjttk. Stmtrag. 

Tomato Soup. 
Roast Beef, with Yorkshire Pudding, 

Macaroni al Napolitano. 

Potatoes au naturel. French Beans, Saute. 
Apple Sauce. Made Mustard. 

Narcissus Blanc-mange. 
Coffee. 



TOMATO SOUP. 

Stew one can of tomatoes half an hour ; strain and rub 
through a colander iwto the soup left from yesterday. 



THIRD WEEK SUNDAY. 59 

Heat to a slow boil, and simmer together ten minutes 
before serving. 

ROAST BEEF, WITH YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 
Have your meat ready for roasting on Saturday, always 
Roast upon a grating or several clean sticks (not pine) laid 
over the dripping-pan. Dash a cup of boiling water over the 
beef when it goes into the oven ; baste often, and see that 
the fat does not scorch. About three-quarters of an hour 
before it is done, mix the pudding. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

1 pint of milk. 

4 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 

2 cups of flour prepared flour is best, 
i teaspoonful of salt. 

Use less flour if the batter grows too. stiff. Mix 
quickly ; pour off the fat from the top of the gravy in the 
dripping-pan, leaving just enough to prevent the pudding 
from sticking to the bottom. Pour in the batter and con- 
tinue to roast the beef, letting the dripping fall upon the 
pudding below. The oven should be brisk by this time. 
Baste the meat with the gravy you have taken out to make 
room for the batter. 

In serving, cut the pudding into squares and lay about 
the meat in the dish. It is very delicious. 

MACARONI AL NAPOLITANO. 
\ Ib. of macaroni. < 

2 nice sweetbreads. 

1 small onion, minced. 
Parsley, pepper, and salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Wash the sweetbreads ; lay in salted water fifteen min- 
utes, and stew with the onion, in a pint of cold water, a 
little salt, until done, as may be seen by cutting into the 
thickest part. Wash the macaroni when you have broken 
it into small bits, and cook gently until tender, but not to 
breaking, in the hot broth from which you have taken the 
sweetbreads and strained the onion. Stew in a farina 



6O JANUARY. 

kettle or tin saucepan set in hot water. Chop the sweet- 
breads ; stir the butter into the macaroni, which should 
have absorbed all the broth ; then the minced sweet- 
breads. Season with parsley, pepper, and salt ; cover 
closely and leave in the hot water, but not over the fire, 
five minutes before turning into a deep dish. 

POTATOES AU NATUREL 

Are, with all their high-sounding name, only the homely 
vegetables boiled in their skins. Put on in cold water, 
bring to a slow boil, and increase the heat until a fork will 
pierce the largest. Throw in salt ; turn off every drop of 
the water ; set back on the range, without the cover, for 
two minutes to dry, peel, and send to table in a napkin. 

FRENCH BEANS, SAUTE. 

Open a can of French or "string" beans; cut into 
inch lengths and boil in the can liquor, adding a little cold 
water, if needed, for twenty minutes. Drain, return to 
the saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of butter and a little 
salt and pepper. Toss constantly with a fork until they 
are hissing hot, but not until they scorch. Serve in a hot 
vegetable dish. 

APPLE SAUCE. 

Pare, core, and slice tart apples, and stew in water 

enough to cover them until they break to pieces. Beat 

to a pulp with a good lump of butter and plenty of sugar. 

*Eat cold. Make enough for several meals, as it will keep 

a week at this season. 

MADE MUSTARD. 
4 tablespoonfuls English mustard. 
2 teaspoonfuls of salt. 

The same quantity of salad oil and white sugar, 
i teaspoonful of pepper. 
Vinegar to make a smooth paste that from celery, or 

onion pickle, if you have it. 
Rub mustard, oil, sugar, pepper, and salt together \ wet, 



THIRD WEEK SUNDAY. 6 1 

by degrees, with vinegar, beating very hard at the last, 
when the proper consistency has been gained. 

This is far superior to mustard as usually mixed for the 
table. 

NARCISSUS BLANC-MANGE. 

i quart of milk. 

1 package of Cooper's gelatine, soaked in two cups of 

cold water. 
Yolks of 4 eggs, beaten light. 

2 cups of white sugar. 

Vanilla and rose-water for flavoring. 
Less than 2 cups of rich cream. 

Heat the milk to scalding ; stir in gelatine and sugar. 
When these are dissolved, take out a cupful and pour, by 
degrees, over the beaten yolks. Return to the saucepan 
and stir together over the fire for two minutes after the 
boiling point is reached. Take from the range, flavor 
with rose-water, and pour into a mould with a cylinder in 
the centre, previously wet with cold water. Next day, 
turn cut upon a dish with a broad bottom, and fill the 
hollow in the middle with the cream, whipped light with a 
little powdered sugar and flavored with vanilla. Pile 
more whipped cream about the base. 

Send your coffee around after the blanc-mange has been 
eaten. A spoonful of whipped cream, without the vanilla, 
will give a touch of elegance to the beverage. Let this 
happy thought come to you while you are preparing the 
cream, and before the flavoring goes in. 



62 JANUARY. 

JHontraj). 



Variety Soup. 
Beef Pudding. Scored Potatoes. 

Canned Peas. Mixed Pickles. 

Apple Meringue. 
Crackers and Cheese. 



VARIETY SOUP. 

Chop a quarter of a small cabbage, a turnip, and some 
sweet herbs ; cover with cold water, and heat to boiling. 
Throw off the first water, and add a quart more of cold. 
Put in the roast-beef bones, after you have cut off the 
meat, with a slice or two, or bone, of ham. Stew all two 
hours at the back of the range. Half an hour before dinner, 
warm up what was left from Sunday's soup. Strain the 
hot liquor in which your cabbage, etc.. have boiled, into 
this. Pick out bits of bones and meat from the colander, 
mashing the vegetables as little as possible ; put these 
into the soup, with any macaroni or beans you may have 
left over ; season to your liking ; simmer for ten minutes ; 
thicken with a tablespoonful of corn-starch, and pour out. 
This will not be a "show-soup," but it will be savory 
and nutritious. 

BEEF PUDDING. 

i pint of milk. 

3 eggs. 

A cupful of prepared flour. 

A little salt. 

i tablespoonful of melted butter. 

Cut the meat from yesterday's roast into neat pieces ; 
lay them in the bottom of a buttered pudding-dish, season 
well, and pour a few spoonfuls of cold gravy over them, 
letting it soak into the meat while you prepare a batter 
according to the above directions, taking care not to get 
it too stiff. Pour over the meat and bake in a quick oven, 
Eat hot. 



THIRD WEEK TUESDAY. 63 

SCORED POTATOES. 

Mash in the usual way, mixing rather soft ; heap and 
/ound upon a greased pie-plate ; score deeply in triangles 
with the back of a carving or butcher's knife ; brown in 
the oven, and slip carefully to another dish. 

CANNED PEAS. 

Open a can of peas an hour before cooking them, that 
there may be no musty, airless taste about them, and turn 
into a bowl. When ready for them put on in a farina- 
kettle or one saucepan within another of hot water. 
If dry, add cold water to cover them, and stew about 
twenty-five minutes. Drain, stir in a generous lump of 
butter ; pepper and salt. 

APPLE MERINGUE. 

Butter a neat pudding-dish, and nearly fill it with apple 
sauce. Cover and leave in the oven until it is smoking 
hot. Draw to the oven door and spread with a meringue 
made of the whites of three eggs, whipped stiff with a little 
powdered sugar. (Your pudding will be much nicer, by 
the way, if you have beaten the yolks into the stewed 
apple before putting it into the dish.) Shut the oven 
door long enough to brown the meringue very lightly. 
Eat nearly or quite cold, with sugar and cream. 

Send around crackers and cheese as an accompaniment. 



l)tvb fttek. 



Celery Soup. 

Veal Cutlets with Ham. Cauliflower with Cream Saucd 
Stewed Potatoes. , Mixed Pickles. 

Jam Pudding. 
Tea, and Albert Biscuits. 

CELERY SOUP. 

3 Ibs. of veal, and some bones of the same. 
2 onions. 



64 JANUARY. 

2 bunches of celery, using the white parts only. 

3 quarts of cold water. 

1 pint of fresh milk. 

2 dessertspoonfuls of corn-starch. 
Pepper and salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Some fried bread. 

Cut the veal up small, crack the bones, and put on in 
cold water. Boil slowly four hours, replenishing with 
boiling water should the broth sink to less than two- 
thirds of the original quantity. Strain, pressing all the 
strength out of the meat. Cut the celery into bits, and 
stew in the broth, with the minced onions, until so soft 
that you can rub through a colander. Strain a second 
time, and return the soup, with the pulped celery, to the 
fire. Season, and thicken with the corn-starch wet up in 
the pint of milk. Stir until it boils, and lastly, put in, 
carefully, the butter, after which take from the range. 
Have ready a double handful of fried bread in the tureen, 
and pour the soup upon it. 

VEAL CUTLETS AND HAM. 

2 Ibs. of veal cutlets, neatly trimmed, and the same of 
sliced ham. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. 

Bread- or cracker-crumbs. 

Dripping for frying. 

Divide each cutlet into pieces about two inches wide by 
three inches long, and cut the ham into slices of corre- 
sponding size. Dip in the egg, then roll in the bread- 
crumbs, and fry the ham first, afterwards the veal, until 
nicely browned on both sides. Sprinkle salt upon the 
veal cutlets. Arrange upon the dish in alternate slices 
of veal and ham, overlapping one another. Anoint the 
ham with butter mixed with a little mustard ; the veal 
with butter melted up with a spoonful of tart jelly. 

CAULIFLOWER WITH CREAM SAUCE. 
Boil your cauliflower, when you have washed and 
trimmed it, and tied it up in coarse net or taiietan. 



THIRD WEEK TUESDA Y. 6$ 

Cook in boiling water slightly salted, keeping the stalk 
end uppermost. Prepare, in another saucepan, the dress- 
ing, by adding to a cup of scalding milk a tablespoonful 
of corn-starch wet up with cold water, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, pepper and salt at discretion. Drain, the cauli- 
flower, remove the net, put into a deep dish, the flower 
up, and drench with the boiling sauce. 

STEWED POTATOES. 

Cut into slices, cook until tender, but not to breaking, 
in hot water. Turn half of this off and replace by as 
much milk, in which some slices of onion have been 
boiled and strained out. Add pepper and salt, a good 
lump of butter rolled in flour, and some chopped parsley. 
Simmer three minutes, and turn into a vegetable dish. 

MIXED PICKLES, 
Home-made or bought, should be passed with the cutlets. 

JAM PUDDING. 

3 cups of milk. 

4 eggs. 

f of a cup of sugar. 

Bread and butter. 

Sweet jam berry, peach, or quince. 
Spread slices of stale bread with butter, then with jam. 
Fit them closely into a buttered pudding-dish until it is 
two-thirds full. Make a custard by adding the beaten 
eggs and sugar to the scalding milk, but do not let them 
boil. Lay a heavy saucer upon the bread and butter to 
prevent floating, and moisten gradually with the hot cus- 
tard. Let all soak for f.fteen minutes before the dish 
goes into the oven. When it is hot throughout, take off 
the saucer, that the pudding may brown equally. Eat 
cold. 

TEA, AND ALBERT BISCUITS 
May follow the pudding. 



66 JANUARY. 



Sheep's-head Soup. 

Roast Hare, with Currant Jelly. Macaroni, with Ham. 
Stuffed Potatoes. Turnips. 

Fig Pudding. 



SHEEP'S-HEAD SOUP. 

Get your butcher to clean a sheep's head with the skin 
on, as he would a calfs head for soup. Let him also 
split it in half that you may get at the brains.- Take 
them out, with the tongue, and set aside. Break the bone 
of the head, wash it well in several waters, and soak for half 
an hour in salted water. Cover it with fresh water, and 
heat gradually to a boil. Drain off the water, and thus 
remove any peculiar odor from the wool or other causes, 
and add four quarts of cold water, with two turnips, two 
roots of salsify, two carrots, two stalks of celery, and a 
bunch of sweet herbs, all chopped .fine. Boil slowly four 
hours. Strain the soup into a bowl, pressing all the 
nourishment out of the meat, and let it stand in a cool 
place until the fat rises thickly to the surface to be taken 
off. The vegetables should be soft enough to pass freely 
through a fine colander, or coarse strainer, when rubbed. 
While the soup cools, prepare the force-meat balls. The 
tongue and brains should have been cooked and chopped 
up, then rubbed to a paste together and mixed with an 
CvUial quantity of bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, and parsley, 
bound with a raw egg, and rolled into small balls, dipped 
in flour. Set them, not so near as to touch one another, 
in a tin plate or dripping-pan, and put in a quick oven 
until a crust is formed upon the top, when they must be 
allowed to cool. Return the skimmed broth to the fire ; 
season ; boil up once ; take off the scum, and add a 
cup of milk in which you have stirred a tablespoonful 
of corn-starch. Simmer, stirring all the while, for two 
minutes after it boils. Put the force-meat "balls into the 



THIRD WEEK WEDNESDAY. 6? 

tureen and pour the soup gently over them so as not to 
break them. 

This is a good and cheap soup, and deserves to be 
better known. 

ROAST HARE. 

Have the hare skinned and well cleaned. Cooks are 
often careless about the latter duty. Stuff, as you would 
a fowl, with a force-meat of bread-crumbs, chopped fat 
pork, a little sweet marjoram, onion, pepper, and salt, 
just moistened withjiot water. Sew up the hare with fine 
cotton ; tie the legs close to the body in a kneeling posi- 
tion. The English cook it with the head on, but we take it 
off as more seemly in our eyes. Lay in the dripping-pan, 
back uppermost ; pour two cups of boiling water over it ; 
cover with another pan and bake, closely covered, except 
when you baste it with butter and water, for three-quar- 
ters of an hour. Uncover, baste freely with the gravy 
until nicely browned : dredge with flour and anoint with 
butter until a fine froth appears on the surface. Take up 
the hare, put on a hot dish, and keep covered while you 
make' the gravy. Strain, and skim that left in the pan ; 
season, thicken with browned flour, stir in a good spoon- 
ful of currant-jelly, and some chopped parsley; boil up; 
pour a few spoonfuls of it over the hare ; serve the rest 
in a gravy-boat. Clip, instead of tearing hard at the cot- 
ton threads. Send currant-jelly around with it. 

MACARONI AND HAM. 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths, and stew ten 
minutes in boiling water. Meanwhile, cut two slices of 
corned (not smoked) ham into dice, wash well and put on 
to boil in a cup of cold water. Drain the macaroni, and 
when the ham has cooked (or ten minutes after coming to 
a boil, pour it, with the liquor, over the macaroni. Sea- 
son with pepper, simmer in a closed farina-kettle for fif- 
teen minutes ; add a little chopped parsley, covei, and 
let it stand a minute more, and serve in a deep dish. The 
fatter the ham the better for this dish. Always pass grated 
cheese with stewed macaroni. 



68 JANUARY. 

STUFFEJO POTATOES. 

Wash and wipe large, fair potatoes, and bake soft. 
Cut a round piece from the top of each, and carefully pre- 
serve it. Scrape out the inside with a spoon without 
breaking the skin, and set aside the empty cases with the 
covers. Mash the potato which you have taken out, 
smoothly, working into it butter, a raw egg, a little cream, 
pepper, and salt. When soft, heat in a saucepan set over 
the fire in boiling water. Stir until smoking hot, fill the 
skins with the mixture, put on the caps, set in the oven 
for three minutes, and send to table wrapped in a heated 
napkin. 

TURNIPS. 

Boil, sliced or quartered, until soft all through ; drain 
well and mash in a colander with a wooden spoon or 
beetle, very quickly, lest they should cool. Cold turnips 
are detestable. Work in a little salt and a good lump of 
butter ; serve in a hot dish, smoothly rounded on top, 
with a pat of pepper here and there. 



FIG PUDDING. 

J- Ib. good dried figs, washed, wiped, and minced. 

2 cups fine, dry bread-crumbs. 

3 e gg s - 

j- cup beef suet, powdered. 
2 scant cups of milk. 
J- cup of white sugar. 
A little salt. 

A pinch of soda, dissolved in hot water and stirred into 
the milk. 

Soak the crumbs in the milk. Add the eggs, beaten 
light, with the sugar, salt, suet, and figs. Beat three min- 
utes, put in a buttered mould with a tight top ; set in 
boiling water with a weight on the cover, to prevent the 
mould from upsetting, and boil three hours. 

Eat hot, with hard sauce, or butter and powdered sugar, 
mixed with nutmeg. It is very good. 



THIRD WEEK THURSDAY. 69 



Sljuir tthek. 



Veal and Rice Broth. 
Stewed Mutton a la Jardiniere. Potato Puff. 

Pork and Beans. Grape Jelly. 

Miijced Pudding. 
Apples, Nuts, and Raisins. 

VEAL AND RICE BROTH. 

4 Ibs. knuckle, of veal, well broken up. 

1 onion. 

2 stalks of celery. 

cup of rice, washed and picked over. 

Chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. 

i cup of milk. 

4 qts. of cold water. 

i tablespoonful corn-starch. 

Put on the veal and bones, with the onion and celery 
minced, in four quarts of cold water. Boil gently after 
it begins to bubble, four hours, keeping the pot-lid on. 
Soak the rice in lukewarm water, enough to cover it well 
adding warmer as it swells for one hour. Cook in 
the same water, never touching with a spoon, but shaking 
up from the bottom, now and then. Strain and press 
the soup into a bowl ; cool to throw up the fat for the 
skimmer, and return to the pot. Salt and pepper ; boil 
up and skim, and stir in the corn-starch wet up in the 
milk. Simmer three minutes ; put in the rice with the 
water in which it was boiled, and the parsley. Simmer 
\ ery gently five minutes, and pour out. 

MUTTON I LA JARDINIERE. 

5 Ibs. of mutton, breast or neck, all in one piece. 
2 onions, } 

1 carrot, v peeled. 

2 turnips, ) 



7O JANUARY. 

1 pint canned tomatoes. 
A few sprigs of cauliflower. 

2 stalks of blanched celery. 
Pepper and salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

i tablespoonful of corn-starch. 

Dripping for frying. 

Fry the mutton (whole) in a large frying-pan, until it is 
lightly browned on both sides. . Put into a deep, broad 
saucepan with all the vegetables (also whole) except the 
tomatoes ; cover with cold water, and stew, closely cov- 
ered, for an hour after they begin to boil. Take out the 
vegetables, and set aside ; add boiling water to the meat, 
if it is not covered, and simmer steadily, never fast, two 
hours longer. The meat should be tender throughout, 
even the fibres. Turn off all the gravy, except about 
half a cupful, fit the pot-lid on very tightly, and leave the 
meat where it will keep just below the cooking-point. 
Strain the gravy you have poured off; leave it to cool 
until the fat rises. Skim, and return to the pot with the 
tomatoes. Season, and boil fast, skimming two or three 
times, until it is reduced to one-half the original quantity, 
or just enough to half cover the meat. Thicken with 
corn-starch, and put in the meat, with its juices from the 
bottom of the pot. Simmer, closely covered, half an 
hour. Cut the now cooled vegetables into neat dice ; 
put the butter into a saucepan, and when it is hot, the 
vegetables. Shake all together until smoking hot, season, 
add a little gravy from the meat, and leave them to keep 
hot in it while you dish the mutton. Put it in the middle 
of a flat dish, and put the vegetables around it in separate 
mounds, with sprigs of parsley or celery between. Pour 
gravy over the mutton. 

Try this dish. It is not difficult of preparation, diffuse 
as I have made the directions. It is, if well managed 
and discreetly seasoned, a family dinner of itself, and a 
very cheap one. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Mash the potatoes as usual ; beat in more milk than is 
your custom, and a couple of eggs, whipping all to a cream, 



THIRD WEEK THURSDAY. Jl 

and seasoning well. Pour into a buttered pudding-dish, 
and bake quickly to a good brown. 

PORK AND BEANS. 

Soak a quart of dried beans overnight in soft water. 
Change this for more and warmer" in the morning, and, 
two hours later, put them on to boil in cold. When they 
are soft, drain well, put into a deep dish ; and sink in the 
middle a pound of salt pork (the ."middling" is best), 
leaving only the top visible. The pork should have been 
previously parboiled. Bake to a fine brown. It is well to 
score the pork in \ong furrows to mark the slices, before 
baking. 

MINCED PUDDING. 

4 large juicy pippins, pared, cored, and chopped. 
Ib. of raisins, seeded and chopped. 
2 tablespoonfuls beef suet, freed from strings and rubbed 

to powder. 

12 almonds, blanched and minced. 
J cup of sugar for pudding, and three tablespoonfuls for 
custard. 

1 pint of milk. 
Stale bread. 
Butter to spread it. 

2 eggs. 
Nutmeg. 

Cut the crust from the bread and slice evenly. Butter 
a shallow pudding-dish, and line it with the slices, fitted 
neatly together, and well buttered. Spread thickly with a 
mixture of the ingredients just enumerated, to wit : apples, 
raisins, suet, and almonds, sweetened, with sugar, and 
spiced with nutmeg. They should form a paste and ad- 
here to the bread. Make a custard by scalding and 
sweetening the milk, then pouring gradually over the 
eggs Soak the bread, etc., with this by pouring it on, a 
few spoonfuls at a time, until the dish is full. Bake in a 
moderate oven, for a time covered, lest it should dry out 
Eat cold, with powdered sugar sifted over the top. 

APPLES, NUTS, AND RAISINS 
Should be served on clean plates after the pudding. 



72 JANUARY. 



<SI)trir tlhek. Jrttrag. 

Puree of Peas. 
Fried Bass. Roast Chicken. 

Mashed Potatoes. Stewed Celery. 

Fried Salsify. Crab-apple Jelly, 

Margherita Lemon Custard. 

PURE" E OF PEAS. 

1 pint of split peas, soaked overnight in soft water. 
3 onions small. 

3 stalks of celery. 

2 carrots small. 

i bunch of sweet herbs, 
i pint of tomatoes. 
Season to taste. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in flour. 
3 quarts of water. 

Put all on to cook together, except the tomatoes and 
butter. The vegetables must be chopped fine. Stew 
steadily and gently three hours. Rub to a puree through 
a siere, and put in the tomatoes, freed of bits of skin and 
cores> and cut into bits. Season, and return to the fire to 
stew for twenty minutes longer, closely covered. Stir in 
the butter divided into teaspoonfuls, each rolled in flour. 
Boil up and serve. Dice of fried bread should be put into 
the tureen. 

FRIED BASS. 

Clean, wipe dry, inside and out, dredge with flour, and 
season with salt. Fry in hot butter, beef-dripping, or sweet 
lard. Half butter half lard is a good mixture for frying 
fish. The moment the fish are done to a good brown, 
take them from the fat and drain in a hot colander. Gar- 
nish with parsley. 



THIRD WEEK FRIDAY. 73 

MASHED POTATOES 
Must accompany the fish. 

ROAST CHICKEN. 

Wash well in three waters, adding a little soda to the 
second. Stuff with a mixture of bread-crumbs, butter^ 
pepper, and salt. Fill the crops and bodies of the fowls ; 
sew them up with strong, not coarse thread, and tie up the 
necks. Pour a cupful of boiling water over the pair, and 
roast an hour or more, if they are large. Baste three 
times with butter and water, four or five times with their 
own gravy. 

Stew the giblets, necks, and feet in water, enough to 
cover them well. When you take up the fowls, add this 
liquor to the gravy left in the dripping-pan, boil up once, 
thicken with browned flour ; add the giblets chopped fine ; 
boil again, and send up in a gravy-boat. 

Should there be more gravy than you need, set it away 
carefully. Each day brings forth a need for such. 

CRAB-APPLE JELLY 
Is a pleasing sauce for roast fowls. 

STEWED CELERY. 

Select the best blanched stalks, and lay aside in cold 
water. Stew three or four stalks of the coarser parts, 
minced, with a small onion, a few sprigs of parsley, also 
chopped, and a bone of ham, or other meat. Stew for an 
hour in enough water to cover them ; strain, pressing hard. 
Cut the choicer celery into pieces two inches long ; pour 
over them the " stock " from the strainer, season with pep- 
per, and, if needed, salt. Stew until very tender. Stir in a 
good tablespoonful of butter, and a little corn-starch, wet 
up in cold water. Simmer gently three minutes, and dish. 

FRIED SALSIFY. 

Scrape and lay in cold water ten minutes. Boil tender, 
drain, and when cold, mash with a wooden spoon, picking ' 
out the fibrous parts. Wet to a paste with milk, work-ia 
a little butter, and an egg and a half for each cupful of 



74 JANUARY. 

salsify. Beat the eggs very light. Season to taste, make 
into round, flat cakes, dredge with flour, and fry to a light 
brown. Drain off the fat, and serve hot. 

MARGHERITA LEMON CUSTARD. 

5 eggs. 

i quart of milk. 

Half the grated peel of a lemon. 

5 tablespoonfuls of white sugar. 

Beat the whites of two eggs and the yolks of five very 
light ; add the sugar and 1 pour over these the milk, scald- 
ing hot. Lastly, put in the grated peel, pour into a but- 
tered pudding-dish, and set in a pan of hot water. Put 
both into the oven, and bake the custard until it is well 
" set." Then spread with a meringue made of the re- 
served whites beaten stiff with a little powdered sugar. 
Shut the oven door, and cook the meringue until slightly 
tinged with yellow-brown. Eat cold. 



(Jtjirir 



English Soup. 

Mutton Chops, Broiled. Browned Potato. 

Stewed Tomatoes. Sweet Pickle*. 



Orange Fritters with Beehive Sauce. 
Coffee. 



ENGLISH SOUP. 

6 Ibs. brisket of beef, cut into thin strips, 
2 onions, sliced and fried in dripping. 
The bones of yesterday's chickens. 

2 carrots. 

3 turnips. 

4 stalks of celery. 

i bunch of sweet herbs. 



THIRD WEEK SATURDAY. ?$ 

% lb. of vermicelli. 

Pepper and salt at discretion. 

6 quarts of cold water. 

Put the beef, cut into strips, the " carcasses " of the 
chickens broken to pieces, and three quarts of cold water, 
ir.to a large soup-pot, and heat gradually. When it boils, 
skim well, and add the fried onion and other vegetables, 
cut fine, and three quarts more of cold water. Stew, with 
the pot-lid on, five hours, after it again boils, giving it no 
attention save to see that it never J^oils fast, and that the 
liquid has not diminished to less than three-quarters of the 
original quantity. Strain at the end of this time, first tak- 
ing out the meat that has not boiled to shreds, and the 
bones. Rub the vegetables through the colander ; after- 
wards strain the soup again through your wire strainer or 
sieve, into the kettle when you have washed it put. Sea- 
son, and simmer ten minutes after the boil recommences, 
skimming often. Break the vermicelli into short lengths, 
put into the soup when you have taken out two quarts 
for Sunday's " stock." Cook gently twelve minutes after 
the vermicelli goes in. 

At first glance, the quantity of meat prescribed for this 
soup may seem extravagant ; but, apart from the fact that 
the coarser and cheaper quality is used, you must note 
that you have now the foundation of three days' soups, 
and that you have saved time, no less than moneyy fey 
making this as I have directed. It is by the -long, intell 
gent look ahead that the mistress proves her right to 
title. 




MUTTON CHOPS BROILED. 

Next to beef, good mutton, properly cooked, desei 
the most prominent place among the meats upon y 
weekly bill of fare. It is digestible, nutritioiis, and, a 
rule, popular. I therefore offer no apology for the re: 
lar and frequent appearance of these two standard artic 
of diet upon these pages. They may well be named the 
two staves of healthful existence for civilized humanity^ 
at least. 

Trim your mutton chops, if your butcher has negle< 
to do it, leaving a naked end of bone as a " handle " upon 



76 JANUARY. 

each. Lay them for fifteen minutes in a little melted 
butter, turning them several times. Then hold each up 
for a moment, to let all the butter drip off that will, and 
broil over a clear fire, watching constantly and turning 
them often when the falling fat threatens a blaze from be- 
low. If your gridiron is beneath the grate, they can be 
cooked far more satisfactorily, and with one^tenth of the 
trouble. Pepper and salt when they are laid upon a hot 
dish, and put a bit of butter upon each. 

SWEET PICKLES 

" Go " well with broiled chops. For receipts for these 
and other pickles, with preserves and fruit jellies, the 
reader is respectfully referred to " COMMON SENSE IN 
THE HOUSEHOLD, No. i, GENERAL RECEIPTS." 

BROWNED POTATO. 

Mash your potatoes with milk, butter, and salt ; hea,p 
as irregularly as possible in a vegetable dish, and hold a 
red-hot shovel close to them. They will brown more 
quickly if you glaze them with butter so soon as a crust 
is formed 'by the hot shovel, then heat it again and repeat 
the browning. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

fo one can of tomatoes allow a saltspoonful of salt, 
as much pepper, a teaspoonful of sugar, and a great 
lespoonful of butter. Drain off half the liquor, season 
and stew fast for twenty minutes, in a vessel set 
iin another filled with water on the hard boil. This 
jipt was given to me by a notable housewife. It ii 
th trying for her sake and variety's. 

ORANGE FRITTERS. 

3 cups of milk. 

2 cups of prepared flour. 

4 eggs. 

A little salt. 

Lard for frying. 

6 or 8 sweet oranges. 

A little powdered sugar. 



THIRD W^EK SATURDAY. 77 

Take the peel and thick white skin from the oranges. 
Slice, and take out the seeds. Make a batter of the in- 
gredients given above, taking care not to get it too thin. 
Dip each slice in this dexterously and fry in boiling lard. 
Drain in a hot colander, and eat with the sauce given 
below. 

BEEHIVE SAUCE. 

cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

Juice and peel of a lemon. 

teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

\ cup of currant jelly, or cranberry syrup. 

Make hard sauce in the usual way by creaming the but- 
ter and sugar. Before beating in the lemon-juice and 
nutmeg, set aside three tablespoon fuls to be colored. 
Having added lemon and spice to the larger quantity, 
color the less by whipping in currant jelly or cranberry 
syrup, until it is of a rich pink. Shape the white sauce 
into a conical mound. Roll & sheet of note paper into 
a long, narrow funnel, tie a string about it to keep it in 
shape, and fill with colored sauce. Squeeze it gently 
through the aperture at the small end, beginning at the 
base, and winding round the cone to the top, guiding it 
so that the white will show prettily between the pink 
ridges. 

The effect is pleasing and costs little trouble to pro- 
duce. 

COFFEE 

Is believed by some to aid digestion, and, since fritters 
are not generally classed among very wholesome dainties, 
it may be as well to give John and John's wife not the 
children a cup of the fragrant elixir as a possible pre- 
ventive against an attack of dyspepsia. It always lendi 
grace even to a homely dinner. 



JANUARY. 



German Sago Soup. 

Boiled Turkey with Oyster Sauce. Savory Rice Pudding* 
Potatoes au Maitre d'hotel. Celery. 

Grape Jelly. 

Mince Pie. 
Bananas and Oranges. 



GERMAN SAGO SOUP. 

Soak half a cup of German sago in enough water to 
cover it entirely for two hours. Heat yesterday's soup 
to boiling, with a little of the reserved " stock," should the 
supply be too small ; stir in the sago with a little salt, 
until dissolved, and serve. 

BOILED TURKEY AND OYSTER SAUCE. 

15 oysters. 

A little milk, bread-crumbs, butter and seasoning. 

Wheat flour. 

Chop about fifteen oysters and work up with them 
bread-crumbs, a spoonful of butter, with pepper and salt. 
Stuff the turkey as for roasting ; sew it up, neatly, in a thin 
cloth fitted to every part, having dredged the cloth well 
inside with flour. Boil slowly, especially at first, allowing 
fifteen minutes to a pound. The water should be luke- 
warm when the turkey goes in. Salt and save the liquor 
in which the fowl was boiled. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 
12 oysters, cut into thirds. 

1 cupful of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

2 teaspoonfuls rice, or wheat flour. 
Flavoring to taste. 
Chopped parsley. 



FOURTH WEEK SUNDAY. 79 

Drain the liquor from the oysters before you cut them 
up. Boil the liquor two minutes, and add the milk. 
When this is scalding hot strain and return to the sauce- 
pan. Wet the flour with cold water and stir into the 
sauce. As it thickens, put in the butter, then pepper and 
salt, with a very little parsley. The juice of a half a 
lemon is a pleasant flavoring. Stir it in after taking the 
sauce from the fire. Before this, and so soon as the flour 
is well incorporated with the other ingredients, add the 
oysters, each cut into three pieces. Simmer f ve minutes 
and pour into a gravy-tureen. Some also pour a little 
over the turkey on the dish. Garnish with slices of boiled 
egg and celery tops. 



SAVORY RICE PUDDING. 

i teacupful of rice. 

Giblets of the turkey. 

A slice of fat salt pork, chopped very fine. 

Half a small onion, also minced. 

i small cup of milk. 

i tablespoonful of butter. 

Pepper and salt. 

Wash the rice thoroughly ; clean the giblets ; soak 
them an hour in salted water, cut each into several 
pieces, and put on to stew with the pork and rice in nearly 
a quart of cold water. Cook slowly until the giblets are 
tender and the rice soft. The grains should be kept as 
whole as possible, so do not use a spoon in stirring, but 
shake up the saucepan, which should be set in another 
of boiling water. The rice should, by this time, be nearly 
dry. Take out the giblets and chop fine. Pour on the 
rice the milk, previously heated with the minced onions > 
and then strained. When this is again scalding, stir in 
the giblets, then the butter and seasoning. Cover and 
simmer for ten minutes. Wet a round or oval pan with 
cold water ; press the rice firmly into it, so that it may 
take the shape, and turn out carefully upon a flat dish. 
Set in the oven for two minutes before sending to table, 
It should be stiff enough to take the mould, yet not dry. 



8O JANUARY. 

POTATOES AU MAiTRE o'H6TEL. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes a quarter of an inch thick, 
and put into a saucepan containing enough milk, already 
heated, to cover them barely. When all are smoking 
hot, add a tablespoonful or more of butter, pepper, salt, 
and minced parsley. Add a teaspoonful of flour wet in 
cold water; heat quickly to a boil ; put in the juice of ha?f 
a lemon ; pour into a deep dish without further cooking. . 

CELERY AND GRAPE JELLY 

Should flank the castor, or epergne, or whatever may 
be your centre-piece. 

MINCE PIE. 

A receipt for mince-meat will be found in the proper 
order in the menu for next December. I take it for 
granted that, like the wise woman you are, you have laid 
up in the store-room enough from your Christmas supply 
to last for some weeks to come. If not, let me advise 
you to get a box of " ATMORE'S CELEBRATED MINCE- 
MEAT," and fill your pastry-crusts, instead of repeating so 
soon the tedious operation so lately performed. It comes 
in neat, wooden cans, and is really good. If you like, you 
can add more sugar and brandy. N. B. My John has a 
sweet tooth. Has yours ? 

Make the paste by rubbing into a quart of your best 
flour one-third of a pound of sweet lard. Chop it in with 
a broad knife, if you have plenty of time. Wet up with 
ice- water, roll out very thin, and cover with " dabs " of 
butter, also of the best. Fold into a tight roll, flatten with 
a few strokes of the rolling-pin, and roll out into a sheet 
as thin as the first ; baste again with the butter ; roll up 
and out into a third sheet hardly thicker than drawing- 
paper ; a third time dot with butter, and fold up closely. 
Having used as much butter for this purpose as you have 
lard, set aside your last roll for an hour in a very cold 
place. Then roll out, line your pie-plates with the paste, 
fill with mince-meat ; put strips, cut with a jagging-iron, 
across them in squares or triangles, and bake in a steady, 
never a dull, heat. 



FOURTH WEEK MONDAY. 8 1 

These pies, like all others, must be made on Saturday, 
and warmed up for Sabbath unless you prefer to line 
your plates on Saturday, and set them aside until next 
day, then fill the raw, crisp paste with the mince-meat, 
and bake. The paste will be the better, instead of worse, 
for standing overnight, and the trouble of baking scarcely 
exceed that of warming over. 

BANANAS AND ORANGES 

May solace the disappointment of the dyspeptic or very 
juvenile members of the family party, who " dare not touch 
mince pie." 



Jburtl) tlUek. illonbag. 

Combination Soup. 

Mince of Fowl. Turkey Salad. 

Sweet Potatoes, Baked. Brussels Sprouts. 



Sweet Macaroni, with Brandied Fruit. 
Chocolate. 

COMBINATION SOUP. 

Put the remains of yesterday's soup and of the stock 
reserved on Saturday together, and heat almost to boiling. 
Split and toast crisp half a dozen Boston crackers ; butter 
while hot, set in the oven until the butter has soaked in, 
when put on more. Lay in the bottom of your soup- 
tureen, wet with a little boiling milk, and when they have 
soaked this up, pour on the soup. 

MINCE OF FOWL. 

Set what was left of yesterday's oyster-sauce over the 

fire to heat, thinning, if necessary, with a little milk. Or, 

if you have no sauce, substitute a cupful of drawn butter, 

made from the liquor in which the turkey was boiled OB 

4* 



82 JANUARY. 

Sunday, reserving the rest for another day's soup. Cut 
the meat closely fiom the bones of the turkey (saving 
these, also). Set aside the white flesh for a nice little dish 
of salad. Cut the rest, freed from skin and gristle, into 
pieces of nearly uniform length, not more than an inch 
long. When your sauce boils, put in the meat, simmer 
until smoking hot, then take off the saucepan, and pour 
gradually over two beaten eggs. Cover the bottom of a 
pudding-dish with bread-crumbs, when you have greased it 
well ; season the mince to taste ; fill up the dish with it ; put 
another layer of bread-crumbs, on top, and stick bits of 
butter over these. Bake covered, until bubbling hot, then 
brown lightly. This will be found very delightful. 

TURKEY SALAD. 

The white meat of the turkey cut up in small pieces. 
An equal quantity of blanched celery, also cut into lengths. 
Salt slightly, and when dinner is nearly ready pour over 
them a dressing made of the yolks of three hard-boiled 
eggs rubbed to a powder with a teaspoonful of sugar, 
naif as much salt, pepper and made mustard, when 
worked into a paste with two tablespoonfuls of oil, and 
six of vinegar. Toss up the salad well with a silver fork, 
and garnish with white of egg cut into rings. 



SWEET POTATOES BAKED. 

Select those which are nearly of a size, and not too 
large, or so small as to shrivel into dry husks. Wash, 
wipe, and bake in a moderate oven until, by pinching, 
you find that they are soft at heart. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Wash carefully, cut off the lower part of the stems, and 
lay in cold water, slightly salted, for half an hour. Cook 
quickly, in boiling water, with a very little salt, for fifteen 
minutes, or until tender. Drain thoroughly, heap neatly 
upon a dish, and put a few spoonfuls of melted butter, 
peppered to taste, upon them. Eat hot. 



FOURTH WEEK TUESDAY. 83 

SWEET MACARONI. 
Ib. of macaroni. 

1 pint of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
4 tablespoonfuls of cream. 
4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Nutmeg and vanilla. 

A little salt. 

Break the macaroni into short pieces, put into a farina- 
kettle, cover with the milk, put on the lid of the kettle, 
and cook with boiling water in the outer vessel, until the 
milk is soaked up and the macaroni looks clear, but has 
not begun to break. Add the butter, sugar, and flavor- 
ing, and, if you have it, a few spoonfuls of cream. If you 
have not, thicken a little milk slightly with corn-starch, 
and use instead. Cover, and set in the boiling water for 
ten minutes longer. Serve in a deep dish, and send around 
canned or brandied peaches with it. 

CHOCOLATE. 

To one pint of boiling water allow six tablespoonfuls 
of grated chocolate wet up to a paste in cold water. 
Boil twenty minutes, put in one pint of milk and boil ten 
minutes more. Stir often. It saves time, if you know 
the tastes of those who are to drink it, if you sweeten it 
in the saucepan. 



Jbuvtl) tDeek. 



Mother's Soup. 

Beefsteak and Onions. Sweet and Irish Potatoes, Chopped 
Mixed Pickles. Corn and Tomatoes, Stewed. 



Creme du The, Cafe et Chocolat. 

MOTHER'S SOUP. 

Bones of yesterday's turkey, with the stuffing. 
A slice of lean ham. 



84 JANUARY. 

The bone from your steak, and half a can of sweet corn* 

i onion, small. 

i stalk of celery. 

Bunch of sweet herbs. 

Pepper and salt. 

3 quarts of water. 

Put on bones, ham (chopped), and the vegetables, cut 
up with the sweet herbs, but not the corn, in a soup-kettle ; 
cover well with the liquor in which the turkey was cooked, 
and boil slowly, untouched, two- hours. Take out the 
bones, and strain the soup, nibbing the vegetables through 
the strainer, into a bowl. Return this to the fire and 
with it the corn and turkey dressing. Bring to a gentle 
boil and keep it steady, for fully half an hour. Season, 
and simmer a quarter of an hour longer. The corn and 
dressing will thicken it sufficiently. 

BEEFSTEAK WITH ONIONS. 

While your steak is broiling, watched by some one else, 
fry three or four sliced onions in a pan with some beef 
dripping or butter. Stir and shake them until they begin 
to brown. Dish your steak, salt and pepper, and lay the 
onions on top. Cover, and let all stand where they will 
keep hot, for five minutes. Do not help onions to any 
one unless you are sure that he likes them. 

There is no dish sp good for keeping a steak hot, yet 
juicy, as a hot-water chafing-dish. No household can 
afford to be without one, if no more. 

MIXED PICKLES 

Give the needed piquancy to steak. Home-made onei 
are best. 

SWEET AND IRISH POTATOES CHOPPED. 
Chop cold boiled Irish potatoes and mix with them the 
cold sweet ones left from Monday in equal parts, if 
convenient or, if you have but two or three, make them 
do. There is philosophy, and religion, too, sometimes, 
in "making things do." Heating a little butter in a 
saucepan, stir in the potatoes when it begins to u fizzle." 



FOURTH WEEK TUESDAY. 85 

Shake and toss them up with a wooden fork until they 
are very hot ; season with pepper and salt, and dish. 



CORN AND TOMATOES STEWED. 

To a can of tomatoes add the half can of corn left from 
your soup. Stew together half an hour, with a little 
minced onion ; then pepper and salt to taste, and stir in 
a great spoonful of butter with a very little sugar. Simmei 
ten minutes before turning out. 



CREME DU TH, CAF ET CHOCOLAT. 

quart of milk. 

package of Cooper's gelatine. 

cup of sugar. 

tablespoonfuls grated chocolate. 

cup strong tea. 

cup of strong coffee. 

Soak the gelatine for an hour in a cup of cold water. 
Heat the milk to boiling and add the gelatine. So soon 
as this is dissolved, put in the sugar, stir until melted, 
and take the saucepan from the fire. Strain through thin 
muslin and divide into three parts. Into the largest stir 
the chocolate, rubbed smooth in cold water ; into another 
the tea, and into a third equal to the second, the coffee. 
Return that containing the chocolate to the farina-kettle, 
and heat scalding hot, stirring all the while. Rinse out 
the kettle well with boiling water, and put in, successively, 
those portions flavored with the tea and the coffee, scald- 
ing the vessel between each. Wet several small cups or 
glasses with cold water. Pour the chocolate into some, 
the tea into others, and the coffee blanc-mange into the 
rest. When cold, turn out upon a flat dish, and eat with 
sugar and sweet cream. It will "form" in about six 
hours. This is a dessert by no means tedious or difficult 
of preparation, and is worth trying, being both dainty and 
wholesome, 



86 JANUARY. 



Lexington Soup. 

Boiled Chickens and Macaroni. Whipped Potatoes 
Chow-chow. Parsnip Cakes. 

Jam Roley-Poley with Wine Sauce. 
Apples and Nuts. 

LEXINGTON SOUP. 

2 Ibs. of veal. 

i Ib. of mutton, with some bones. 

i onion. 

i carrot. 

J cup of rice. 

i cup of split peas. 

4 quarts of water. 

Sweet herbs, pepper and salt. 

Mince the meat and vegetables and crack the bones. 
The peas should have been soaked overnight in soft 
water, the rice washed and picked over. Put all together 
in your soup-kettle, pour in the water and stew gently, 
covered, five hours. Should the water waste too much, 
put in more from the tea-kettle. At the end of this time, 
strain, rubbing the vegetables through a colander. Return 
to the fire, season, and boil slowly ten minutes, skimming 
caiefully. Put sliced lemon, from which the yellow rind 
has b,een pared, into the tureen, and pour the soup upon 
it. Serve a slice in each plateful. 

BOILED CHICKENS AND MACARONI. 

Clean, wash, and stuff your chickens as for roasting ; 
sew each up in a piece of new tarlatan, fitted snugly to 
the shape. Boil, putting them down in pretty hot, but 
not scalding water, allowing twelve minutes to the num- 
ber of pounds in one of the pair, and that the larger. 
About half ar hour before they are to be served take out 



FOURTH WEEK WEDNESDAY. ' 87 

a large cupful of the liquor from the pot and put into a 
saucepan. Season it, and boil for five minutes with a 
small chopped onion. Strain, and when again hot, drop 
in a double handful of macaroni, broken into short lengths. 
Cook until tender, by which time the liquor should be ab- 
sorbed by the macaroni. The saucepan should be set in 
another, holding boiling water, that there may be no 
danger of scorching while stewing. Make a flattened 
mound of the macaroni upon a hot dish ; lay the chickens 
upon it, and anoint them well with melted butter, made 
more salt than usual. Serve them out together, and have 
grated cheese for such as wish it. 

CHOW-CHOW, 

Or " picklette," in American store-rooms is a keen appe- 
tizer and especially harmonious with boiled fowls. For 
receipt for making in winter or summer, see " General 
Receipts, No. i, Common Sense Series," page 491. 

PARSNIP CAKES. 

Scrape, wash, boil, and mash the parsnips. When cold, 
season with salt and pepper, and, flouring your hands, 
make them into small, flat cakes. Roll in flour and fry 
in boiling dripping. Drain dry and send up on a hot 
dish. 

WHIPPED POTATOES. 

Instead of mashing the potatoes in the ordinary way, 
whip with a fork until light and dry. Then whip in a 
little melted butter and some milk with salt to taste, beat- 
ing up fast until you have a creamy compound, almost 
like a meringue. Pile as lightly and irregularly as you 
can upon a hot dish. 

JAM ROLEY-POLEY. 

i quart of prepared flour. 

1 tablespoonful of butter and ihe same of lard. 

2 cups of milk, or enough to make soft dough, 
i large cup of fruit or berry jam. 

Rub lard and butter into the flour, with a little salt, and 



28 JANUARY. 

wet with cold milk into a soft paste. Roll out into a 
pretty thick crust say about a quarter of an inch and 
trim into an oblong sheet. Spread this generously with 
jam, leaving a margin at each end. Roll up closely, the 
fruit inside. Pinch the open ends together, and baste 
neatly in a floured bag fitted to the roll, but not so tightly 
as to interfere with the swelling of the pudding. Boil an 
hour and a half in hot water that, from first to last, is not 
once off the boil. Dip the cloth into cold water before 
attempting to turn the roley-poley out but for one hasty 
second only. 

WINE SAUCE. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

2. cupfuls of powdered sugar. 

ij- cup of wine. 

Grated peel of half a lemon. 

\ cupful of boiling water. 

i teaspoonful of corn-starch. 

Nutmeg. 

Cream the butter and sugar, adding the boiling water, 
a little at a tinie, until you have used the half cupful. 
Put on in a saucepan, and stir in the corn-starch wet up 
with cold milk. When it has thickened, put in the lemon- 
peel and nutmeg. Simmer one minute, add the wine, 
put on the lid of the saucepan and set in hot water to 
keep warm until wanted. 

APPLES AND NUTS, 

Being cheap and abundant at this season, should form the 
sequel of many dinners. 



FOURTH WEEK THURSDAY. 89 

Jbttrtl) tDttk. Ijur0irag. 



White Soup. 
Langue de Bceuf, or Beef's Tongue. 

Fried Brains and Green Peas. 
Sauce Piquante. Hominy Croquettes. 

Cold Slaw. 



Brown Betty. 

WHITE SOUP. 

Skeletons of yesterday's chickens. 

3 or 4 Ibs. of veal bones, cracked to pieces. 

i Ib. of lean veal, cut small. 

i pint of milk. 

1 egg. 

i small cup of boiled farina. 

Salt, pepper, minced onion and parsley for seasoning. 

i quart of water, and liquor in which chickens were 
boiled. 

Cover the broken chicken and veal bones, the minced 
veal, parsley, and onion with the cold water and chicken 
liquor and simmer three hours, until the three quarts are 
reduced to two. Strain the liquor ; put back into the 
pot ; salt and pepper ; boil gently and skim for ten min- 
utes before adding the milk and boiled farina. Simmer 
another ten minutes ; take out a cupful and pour over 
the beaten egg. Mix well, and put with the soup ; let all 
stand covered, off the fire, two minutes, and serve. 

LANGUE DE BCEUF, OR BEEF'S TONGUE. 

Get your butcher to save you a fresh, large beefs 
tongue, the finest he can get. Soak, in cold water, a little 
salt, six hours overnight, if you choose changing the 
water before you go to bed. Wipe it, trim and scrape it, 
and plunging into boiling water, keep it at a slow boil foi 
an hour and a half. Take il up, pepper and salt ; brush 



9 JANUARY. 

over with beaten egg and coat thickly with bread-crumbs j 
lay in your dripping-pan and bake, basting often with but- 
ter melted in a little water. Half an hour in a good oven 
should suffice. Put on a hot dish and cover while you 
prepare the sauce. 

SAUCE PIQUANTE. 

1 cupful of the liquor in which the tongue was boiled. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

i teaspoonful of made mustard. 

A little salt and pepper. 

i heaping tablespoonful of browned flour. 

i teaspoonful mixed parsley and sweet marjoram. 

i tablespoonful of onion vinegar. 

Brown the butter by shaking it over a clear fire in a 
saucepan. Heat the cupful of liquor to a boil, skim and 
season it with salt and pepper. Skim again before stir- 
ring in the flour wet up with cold water. As it thickens, 
put in the butter, herbs, mustard, and vinegar. Boil up, 
pour half over the tongue, the rest into a sauce-boat. 

FRIED BRAINS AND GREEN PEAS. 

Open a can of green peas an hour before cooking them, 
and turn into a bowl. If there is not liquor in the can to 
cover them, add a little water, slightly salted, and cook 
over twenty minutes after they boil. Drain, pepper and 
salt ; stir in a lump of butter nearly as large as an egg, 
and put into a vegetable dish, the fried brains arranged 
along the base of the mound. 

Wash a calf's brains in several waters ; scald in boil- 
ing, then lay in ice-cold water, for half an hour. Wipe, 
and beat them into a paste ; season, work in a little 
butter, a beaten egg, and enough flour to hold the paste 
together. Fry upon a griddle in small cakes. Drain off 
every drop of fat. Eat hot. 

A nice and savory garnish. 

HOMINY CROQUETTES. 
2 cups fine hominy, boiled and cold. 
2 beaten eggs. 



FOURTH WEEK THURSDAY. 91 

i tablespoonful of melted butter. 

Salt to taste. 

i teaspoonful of sugar. 

Work the butter into the hominy until the latter is 
smooth ; then the eggs, salt and sugar. Beat hard with a 
wooden spoon to get out lumps and mix well. Make 
into oval balls with floured hands. Roll each in flour, 
and fry ..in sweet dripping or lard, putting in a few at a 
time and turning over with care as they brown. Drain 
in a hot colander. 

COLD SLAW. 

Chop or shred a small white cabbage. Prepare a dress- 
ing in the proportion of one tablespoonful of oil to four 
of vinegar, a teaspoonful of made mustard, the same 
quantity of salt and sugar, and half as much pepper. 
Pour over the salad, adding, if you choose, three table- 
spoonfuls of minced celery ; toss up well and put into a 
glass bowl. 

BROWN BETTY. 

2 cups chopped apples, tart ones. 
% cup of sugar. 

1 cup of bread-crumbs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
i teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

Put a layer of chopped apple in the bottom of a 
buttered pudding-dish. Sprinkle well with sugar, stick 
bits of butter here and there and add a pinch or two of 
nutmeg^ Cover with bread-crumbs, then more apple. 
In this order of alternation fill the dish, spreading the 
surface with bread-crumbs. Cover, steam nearly an hour 
in a moderate oven ; then brown quickly. 

For sauce, mix a teaspoonful of cinnamon with a cup 
of powdered sugar. Butter the hot "Betty" as you fill 
each saucer, and strew with this mixture. Or it is excel- 
lent, eaten warm, not hot, with cream and sugar. 



92 JANUARY. 

Jbttrtl) ttJttk. 

Potato Soup. 

Fried Oysters. Roast Mutton. 

Spinach a la Creme. Potatoes Stewed Whole. 

French Tapioca Custard. 

POTATO SOUP. 

i dozen mealy potatoes. 

1 can of tomatoes. 

2 onions. 

3 stalks of celery. 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter, cut into bits and rolled in 

flour. 

i bunch of sweet herbs. 

i lump of white sugar. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

3 quarts of water. 

Fried bread. 

Parboil the potatoes; then slice and put them into the 
soup-pot with the tomatoes, the onions, minced, and the 
celery and herbs chopped small. Pour on three quarts 
of water, and stew for one hour, or until the vegetables 
can be rubbed easily through the colander. Strain, re- 
turn to the pot, drop in the sugar, pepper and salt judi- 
ciously, boil up and skim. Stir in the butter, and simmer, 
covered, for ten minutes. Have dice of fried bread in the 
tureen, upon which pour the soup. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Select for this the finest oysters. Drain, and wipe 
them by spreading them upon a cloth, laying another 
over them, and pressing lightly. Roll each in beaten 
egg, then in cracker-crumbs with which have been mixed 
a little salt and less pepper, and fry in a mixture of equal 
parts of lard and butter. 



FOURTH WEEK FRIDAY. 93 

Drain each in a wire spoon, and eat them hot, with 
bread and butter. 

ROAST MUTTON. 

Wash the meat well and wipe with a clean cloth. Put 
into the dripping-pan, pour a cup of boiling water over it, 
and roast, basting often, for a while, with salt and water, 
afterwards with its own gravy. Allow twelve minutes to 
each pound of meat, and keep the" fire at a steady, moder- 
ate heat. Should it brown too fast, cover with a sheet 
of paper. Take up the meat, put it on a hot dish ; 
thicken the gravy with browned flour, having first taken 
off all the fat you can season with pepper and salt, boil 
up, skim and serve. Pass currant jelly with it. 

SPINACH A LA CREME. 

Pick over and wash the spinach, and cut the leaves 
from the stalks. Boil in hot water, a little salted, about 
twenty minutes. Drain, put into a wooden tray, or upon 
a board ; chop very fine, and rub through a colander. 
Put into a saucepan ; stir until it begins to smoke through- 
out. Add then two tablespoonfuls of butter for a good- 
sized dish, a teaspoonful of white sugar, three tablespoon- 
fuls of milk, salt and pepper to liking. Beat, as it heats, 
with a silver fork or wire spoon. Some put in a little 
nutmeg, and most people like it. Cook thus until it 
begins to bubble up as you beat it. Pour into a deep 
dish, surround with sliced egg, and serve. 

POTATOES STEWED WHOLE. 

Pare the potatoes and boil in water which was cold 
when they went in. When they are done, as is proved 
by piercing the largest with a fork, turn off the water, and 
cover them barely with milk already heated. Stew in 
this five minutes ; take the potatoes out, and put into a 
covered deep dish. Add to the milk in the saucepan a 
good lump of butter, rolled in flour, some chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt. Boil up once. Crack each 
potato as it lies in the dish, by pressing with the back of 
a spoon ; pour the hot milk over them ; let them stand 
three minutes in it, and send to table. 



94 JANUARY. 

FRENCH TAPIOCA CLSTARD. 

5 dessertspoonfuls of tapioca. 

i quart of milk. 

i pint of cold water. 

3 eggs. 

i teaspoonful of vanilla. 

i heaping cup of sugar. 

A pinch of salt. 

Soak the tapioca in the water five hours. Heat the 
milk to scalding ; add the tapioca, the water in which it 
was soaked, and the salt. Stir to boiling, and pour gradu- 
ally upon the yolks and sugar, which should have been 
beaten together. Boil again, stirring constantly, about 
five minutes, or until it begins to thicken well. Turn 
into a bowl and stir gently into the custard the frothed 
whites and the flavoring. Eat cold. 



Jburtl) Deek. Saturirag. 

Old Hare Soup. 

Hot Pot. Turnips with White Sauce. 

Boiled Rice, au Geneve. Cucumber Pickle. 

Cabinet Pudding. 
Cabinet Pudding Sauce. 

OLD HARE SOUP. 

i hare, or rabbit, full grown. 

The bones from yesterday's mutton broken up well. 

A slice of corned ham, or some bones of salt pork. 

i onion. 

Chopped parsley. 

Pepper and salt. 

i tablespoonful of mushroom or waln'jt catsup. 

3 quarts of water. 



FOURTH WEEK SATURDAY. Q$ 

Clean the hare carefully and cut to pieces, cracking all 
the bones. Put into the soup-kettle with the mutton 
bones, the bacon, onion, and parsley. Pour on three 
quarts of cold water; put on the lid tightly, and stew 
four hours very slowly. By this time the meat should be 
in shreds. Strain it, return to the fire, season it, stew and 
skim five minutes. Slice three boiled eggs and put into 
the tureen and pour the soup over them. 

HOT POT. 

Put into a deep bake-dish a layer of cold mutton left from 
your roast, freed from fat and skin and cut into strips two 
inches long by one wide. Overlay these with slices of 
parboiled potatoes, a little minced onion, an oyster or 
two chopped, some tiny bits of butter, .with salt and 
pepper. Repeat this process until your meat is used up. 
The top layer should be potatoes. Add a cupful of 
gravy from Friday's dinner (or elsewhere), cover very 
closely and bake one hour before lifting the lid. Peep in 
to see if the contents are done they will be if your fire 
is tolerably strong. Turn out into a deep dish. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES 
Are a better condiment for this dish than any others. 

TURNIPS WITH WHITE SAUCE. 

Peel and quarter your turnips. Leave in cold water 
half an hour. Put on in hot water, and boil until tender. 
Drain and cover with a sauce prepared by heating a cup 
of milk, thickening it with a heaping teaspoonful of corn- 
starch, and stirring in a great spoonful of butter with pep- 
per and salt to season it well. Put this, when you have 
added the turnips, into a vessel set within another of 
boiling water, and let them stand covered, without cook- 
ing, ten minutes before serving. 

BOILED RICE AU GENEVE. 

Pick over and wash the rice, and boil in a farina-kettle, 
with enough cold water, a little salted, to cover it an inch 
deep. Shake now and then as the rice swells. Take from 



X> JANUARY. 

your hare soup, when you have strah-ed it, a cupful of 
the liquor and about half as much of the toiled shreds of 
meat. Chop these extremely fine, season with salt and 
pepper. Heat the cup of liquor to a boil, stir into it a 
scant tablespoonful of browned flour, then the chopped 
meat and a tablespoonful of butter, and stew gently five 
minutes. Pile the boiled rice, which should be almost 
dry, in a dish, and pour the gravy over it. It is very 
savory, and makes a pleasant variety in the list of winter 
vegetables. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

J Ib. of prepared flour. 

Ib. of butter. 

5 eggs. 

% Ib. of sugar. 

J Ib. of raisins seeded and cut into three pieces each. 

Ib. of currants, washed and dried. 

|- cup of milk. 

% lemon, grated peel and juice. 

Cream the butter and sugar ; add the beaten yolks ; 
the milk and the flour alternately with the whites. Lastly, 
stir in the fruit, well dredged with flour ; beat up thor- 
oughly, pour into a buttered mould ; put into a pot of 
boiling water and do not let it relax its boil for two hours 
and a half. Dip the mould into cold water for one moment 
before turning it out. 

CABINET PUDDING SAUCE. 

Yolks of 2 eggs, whipped very light. 

i lemon, juice and half the grated peel. 

i glass of wine. 

i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

i cup of sugar. 

i tablespoonful of butter. 

Rub the butter into the sugar ; add the yolks, lemon, 
and spice. Beat five minutes and put in the wine, stirring 
hard. Set within a saucepan of boiling water, and stir 
until it is scalding hot. Do not let it boil. Pour over 
the pudding. 



FIRST WEEK-SUNDAY. 97 

FEBRUARY. 
fmt tDttk. Btmirag. 

Clear Vermicelli Soup. 

Stewed Ducks. Fried Apples and Bacon. 

Mashed Carrots. Potatoes a la Reine. 

Potato Pie. 

Oranges and Bananas. 



CLEAR VERMICELLI SOUP. 

6 Ibs. of veal the knuckle is best. 

i Ib. of lean ham, cut fine. 

i bunch of sweet herbs. 

^ Ib. of vermicelli. 

5 quarts of water. 

Pepper and salt with half a teaspoonful ground mace. 

Cut the meat from the bones in thin shreds, and crack 
the bones to splinters. Mince the ham and herbs. Put 
into a soup-kettle, add the water, cover very tightly with 
a weight upon the lid, and stand where it will slowly boil, 
for five hours. Then turn into a jar, salt and pepper, and 
shut up while hot. Leave the jar all Saturday night upon 
the side of the range, where it will keep warm until morn- 
ing. Pour into a bowl before breakfast and let it get cold. 
Take off the cake of fat two hours before dinner, turn the 
soup-jelly, bones and all, into the soup-pot, and when it is 
melted strain through your wire sieve. Put in the mace, 
boil for an hour and a half, and skim. Put the vermicelli, 
already broken into short bits and boiled tender, into the 
tureen (but not . the water in which it was boiled) and 
strain the soup over it through double tarlatan. Let it 
stand ten minutes before serving. This is a showy soup, 
and easily made, really requiring little attention. 
5 



98 FEBRUARY. 

STEWED DUCKS. 

On Saturday, draw, wash, and stuff your ducks, adding 
a touch of onion and sage to the dressing. On Saturday, 
also, make a gravy of the giblets, cut small, an onion, 
sliced, with a pint of water. Stew, closely covered, for 
two hours ; take off, season, and set away with the giblets 
in it still. Next day on Sunday lay the ducks in the 
dripping-pan, put in the gravy, adding water if there is not 
enough to half cover the fowls, at least. Invert another 
pan of the same size over them, and let them stew, at a 
moderate heat, for two hours. Or, you can put them into 
a large saucepan, pour in the gravy, fit on the lid, and 
cook upon the range for the same time. In either case 
they will take care of themselves, as will the soup, if 
Bridget be reasonably obedient to orders, while you go 
to church. When the ducks are done, lay them upon a 
hot dish, thicken the gravy with browned flour, add a 
glass of brown sherry and the juice of a lemon. Lay 
three-cornered bits of fried bread around the inside of the 
dish, and pour the gravy over all. 

FRIED APPLES AND BACON. 

Pare, core, and slice round, some well-flavored pippins, 
or greenings. Cut into thin slices some streaked middling 
of excellent bacon, and fry in their own fat almost to crisp- 
ness. Take out the meat and arrange it upon a hot chaf- 
ing-dish, while you fry the apples in th.e fat left in the pan 
from the bacon. Drain and lay upon the slices of meat. 

This is a Southern dish, and not so homely as it would 
seem from the mere reading. 

POTATOES i LA REINE. 

Mash as usual, beating up light with butter and milk, 
but not so soft as not to take any shape you like to give 
them. Make a rounded hillock, or a four-sided pyramid 
of them upon a flat dish. Brush this all over with beaten 
yolk of egg, set in the oven a few minutes to harden the 
coating, and send to table. 



FIRST WEEK SUNDAY. 99 

MASHED CARROTS. 

Scrape, wash, lay in cold water half an hour; then 
cook tender in boiling water. Drain well, mash with a 
wooden spoon, or beetle, work in a good piece of butter, 
and season with pepper and salt. Heap up in a vege- 
table dish, and serve very hot. 

POTATO PIE. 

i Ib. mashed potato, rubbed through a colander. 
Ib. of butter, creamed with the sugar. 
6 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 
i lemon, squeezed into the potato while hot. 

1 teaspoonful of nutmeg and the same of mace. 

2 cups of white sugar. 

Cream the butter and sugar ; add the yolks, the spice, 
and beat in the potato gradually until it is very light. At 
last, whip in the whites. Bake in open shells of paste. 
Eat cold. 

When making these pies on Saturday forecasting Mon- 
day's needs and superabundance of cares prepare more 
pastry than you need for the two large pies which the 
above quantity of potato mixture will fill, and set aside a 
trim roll of raw crust tp be rolled out in due time we 
shall see to what end. I take it for granted (once more) 
that all of Sunday's receipts'will be diligently conned on 
the day when the old distich tells us, even " lazy people 
work the best." 

This potato pie will be pronounced delicious. 

ORANGES AND BANANAS. 

These will make a pretty finish to what I flatter myself 
with the hope that you will find a good, and not inelegant 
repast 



100 FEBRUARY. 



first iDtek. Jttontrag. 

Blanche's Soup. 
Duck Pate. Succotash. 

Sweet Potatoes, Boiled. Crab-apple Jelly. 

Cup Custard, Boiled. 
Cut or Fancy Cake. 

BLANCHE'S SOUP. 

Strain out the vermicelli left in yesterday's " stock.' 
Heat very hot, and add two cups of milk in which has 
been stirred a tablespoonful of rice-flour, or, if you cannot 
get that, corn-starch. Stir until it thickens ; take out a 
cupful and pour it over two beaten eggs. Return to the 
soup, taste, and supply what seasoning is needed ; lift 
from the fire and leave covered five minutes before pour- 
ing into the tureen. 

DUCK PAT^J. 

Cut the meat from the bones of yesterday's ducks, in 
season to make gravy. Do this by breaking the skeletons 
to pieces, and putting them, with the stuffing, into a 
saucepan, pouring in a quart of cold water, and letting it 
in two hours boil down to half as much, or even one- 
third. Boil slowly, with the lid slightly lifted after the 
boiling begins. Let this get cold ; skim and season. In 
the bottom of a pudding-dish put some neat slices of duck ; 
on this a layer of boiled egg sliced thin ; then, a few 
slices of corned tongue. (That of a calf will do as well 
as beef, and be cheaper. It should be boiled and cold.) 
Sprinkle each layer with pepper and a little salt, with a 
tiny pinch of mace upon the tongue. When your mate- 
rials are used up, pour in the gravy, and, just before it 
goes into the oven, cover with a crust of pastry kept over 
from Saturday. Bake about three-quarters of an hour for 
a large dish half an hour for one of medium size. There 



FIRST WEEK MONDAY. IOI 

must be a slit in the centre of the crust to let out the 
steam. 

By proper foresight, the manufacture of this very pala- 
table pie will consume but little of a busy woman's time 
on Monday. Do not forget that with gravies and soups, 
after you have placed them over the fire in a well-chosen 
location, they will need nothing more than a hasty glance 
for, perhaps, several hours, during which much work in 
other parts of the household can be done. 

SWEET POTATOES, BOILED. 

It is poor economy, in buying sweet or Irish potatoes^ 
to get either very large or very small ones. So, in cook- 
ing, select those of uniform size. Put on in hot water ; 
boil until a fork will go easily into the largest. Peel 
quickly and set in the oven for a few minutes to dry. Eat 
hot, with butter. 

SUCCOTASH. 

i can of sweet corn. 

i can of string beans. 

i great spoonful of butter. 

Pepper and salt. 

i cup of milk. 

A little flour. 

Cut the beans into inch lengths ; put them into a sauce- 
pan with the corn, and cover with cold water. Stew hall 
an hour, after they begin to cook, turn off most of the 
water and put in the milk cold. When it is hot, stir in 
the butter, rolled in flour. Season, simmer for five min- 
utes, and pour into a deep dish. 

This will make a large quantity of succotash for a small 
family, but what is not eaten will be nice warmed over for 
breakfast. ^ 

CUP CUSTARDS BOILED. 

i quart of milk. 

Yolks of 5 eggs and whites of 3 (reserving 2 for th 

meringue}. 

6 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Vanilla flavoring, i teaspoonful to the pint. 



102 FEBRUARY. 

Heat the milk almost to boiling. Take out a cupful 
and add, slowly, to the beaten yolks and sugar, whipped 
up with three of the whites. Return to the fire and stir 
until it begins to thicken, but not until it curdles. Pour 
into a bowl and, when cold, flavor. Fill glass, or china 
cups with it. Whip the reserved whites to a meringue 
with a little powdered sugar, and heap a spoonful upon 
the top of each cup. 

Watch your opportunity for boiling the custard. I have 
often slipped into the kitchen and made it while the coffee 
was boiling for breakfast. This once off the fire, no more 
cooking is needed. 

CUT, OR FANCY CAKE, 

Of which every housewife keeps a supply in her pantry, 
for luncheon and tea, makes, with these custards, a nice 
dessert, to which you need never be ashamed to seat John 
And his friends. 



. first tihek. 



Family Soup. 

Rolled Beef. Baked Tomatoes. 

Browned Potatoes Whole. Apple Sauce. 

Unity Pudding. 
Cream Sauce. 

FAMILY SOUP. 

* 2 Ibs. fresh beef bones, broken small, 
i Ib. calf's liver, sliced, 
i slice of ham, minced, 
i Ib. of coarse mutton, also minced." 
i turnip. 

3 stalks of celery, 
i onion. 



FIRST WEEK: TUESDAY. 103 

Bunch sweet herbs. 
cup of raw rice. 
Pepper and salt. 
4 quarts of cold water. 

Put the cracked bones, the meat, and the chopped 
vegetables into the soup-pot, and cover with the water. 
The liver should lie in salted water one hour before it is 
sliced. Stew very slowly five hours. Then strain, rub- 
bing hard ; cool enough to bring the fat to the top. Take 
it off, season the soup, put over the fire, and when it 
boils stir in the rice, previously cooked soft in a little 
salted water. Simmer together half an hour, and pour 
out. 

ROLLED BEEF. 

Get a njlet of beef that is, the tenderloin of several 
steaks cut in one piece. It will not be cheap, but there 
will be no waste. Therefore, as one weighing four or five 
pounds will make a roast for one day, your dinner will 
not be really expensive. Roll it up round ; pin tightly 
with skewers not to be removed, except by the carver, 
and roast with care, basting often that it may not dry up. 
Carve horizontally. 

BROWNED POTATOES WHOLE. 

Peel and parboil some fine potatoes, and half an hour 
before your beef is taken up, lay them in the dripping- 
pan. Baste with the meat and turn several times. Drain 
off the grease when they are done to a fine brown, and 
lay about the meat in the dish when it goes to table. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Open a can of tomatoes, and turn into a bowl. After 
an hour, season them with a teaspoonful of sugar, half as 
much salt, a little pepper and a tablespoonful of butter 
cut into bits, each bit rolled in flour and all distributed 
evenly throughout the tomatoes. Cover with very dry 
bread-crumbs. Bake in a pudding-dish, covered, about 
thirty minutes, then brown on the upper grating of the 
oven. 



IO4 FEBRUARY. 

APPLE SAUCE. 

Make this on Saturday, by stewing sliced tart apples 
in a little water until soft, draining and mashing them, 
adding a bit of butter while doing this. Sweeten abun- 
dantly and season with nutmeg. 

UNITY PUDDING. 

cup of milk, 
tablespoonful of butter. 

egg- 

generous pint ot prepared flour, 
cup of sugar, 
i saltspoonful of salt. 

Rub butter and sugar together ; beat in the egg, and 
whip up very light. Then, milk and salt, finally the flour. 
Bake in a buttered mould, until a straw thrust into the 
thickest part comes out clean. Turn out upon a plate. 
Cut in slices and eat hot. 

If for this and other receipts which prescribe prepared 
flour, you cannot conveniently procure it, add one tea- 
spoonful of soda and two of cream of tartar to each quart 
of flour. Sift all several times through a sieve. You 
can keep this for a week or two in a dry place. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

2 cups rich milk half cream, if you can get it. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Whites of 2 eggs whipped stiff. 

i teaspoonful extract of bitter almonds. 

% teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

i even tablespoonful of corn-starch wet up with cold 
water. 

Heat the milk to scalding ; add the sugar, stir in the 
corn-starch. When it thickens beat in the stiffened 
whites, then the seasoning. Take from the fire, and set 
in boiling water to keep warm but not cook until 
wanted. 



FIRST WEEK WEDNESDAY. I OS 



-first fthek. 



Split Pea Soup. 

Fricasseed Chicken, Brown. -Ladies' Cabbage. 

Baked Potatoes. Stewed Salsify. 



Soft Gingerbread. 
Cafe au Lait. 



SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

i quart of split peas, soaked in soft water all night. 

1 Ib. streaked salt pork, cut into thin strips. 

2 Ibs. of beef bones, cracked well. 

3 stalks of celery, and i onion, chopped. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 

4 quarts of cold water. 
A sliced lemon. 

Put soaked peas, pork, bones and vegetables ovei 
the fire, with the water, and boil slowly for three hours, 
until the liquid is reduced nearly one half. Strain through 
a colander, rubbing the peas into a tolerably thick puree 
into the vessel below. Season, simmer ten minutes over 
the fire, and pour over the lemon, sliced and pared and 
laid in the tureen. 

FRICASSEED CHICKEN BROWN. 

i pair of chickens. 

J ft>. salt pork, minced. 

1 small onion. 
Tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Browned flour. 

Pepper, and a little salt. 

Joint the chickens, cutting them with a sharp knife. 
Put, with the pork, into a pot with a quart of water, and 
stew until tender. Do not boil fast, especially at fiist 

5* 



106 FEBRUARY. 

Strain off the liquor and cover the chickens while ycu 
prepare the gravy. Put it into a large frying-pan. There 
will not be too much after the chickens are taken out of 
it. Add to it the parsley and chopped onion, with sea- 
soning. Boil up, thicken with browned flour ; stir in the 
butter and cook rapidly, stirring often, ten minutes. Ar- 
range the chickens upon a hot dish and pour the gravy 
over it. Let all stand for five minutes before sending to 
the table. 

LADIES' CABBAGE. 

i firm white cabbage, boiled and left to get cold. 

2 beaten eggs. 

i tablespoonful of butter. 

3 tablespoonfuls of rich milk. 
Pepper and salt. 

Boil the cabbage in two waters. When it is cold, chop 
fine, and mix with it the beaten eggs, butter, milk, pepper 
and salt to your liking. Beat up well and bake in a 
(buttered pudding-dish until brown. Serve in the dish in 
which it was cooked, and eat hot. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Select large, fair potatoes of equal size, wash, wipe and 
put into the oven to bake until soft all through. Send to 
table wrapped in a napkin. 

STEWED SALSIFY. 

Scrape and drop into cold water as fast as you clean 
them. Cut into inch lengths ; cover with hot water and 
stew tender. Turn off the water ; put in a cupful of cold 
milk. Stew in this ten minutes after the boil begins ; 
add a lump of butter rolled thickly in flour ; pepper and 
salt as you fancy. Boil up once and pour ir.to a deep 
dish. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

i cup of butter, 
i cup of molasses. 
i cup of sugar. 



FIRST WEEKTHURSDAY. IO7 

i cup of sour or butter milk. 

\ Ib. of raisins, seeded and cut in half. 

i teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in boiling water. 

1 teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

2 eggs. 

Nearly 5 cups of sifted flour, enough for tolerably thick 
batter. 

Cream butter, sugar, molasses, and spice ; set the mix- 
ture on the range until lukewarm. Add the milk, then 
the beaten eggs, the soda, and at last the flour. Beat 
hard five minutes ; put in the fruit dredged with flour ; 
beat three minutes, and bake in small round tins. 

Eat warm all that is needed for dessert. The rest will 
keep well. This gingerbread is uncommonly fine. 

CAF AU LAIT. 

2 cups strong made coffee fresh and hot. 
2 cups of boiling milk. 

Strain the coffee from the boiler into the table coffee- 
pot, through thin muslin. Add the boiling milk and set 
in a vessel of hot water, a "cozey," or a thick clqth 
wrapped about it, for five minutes. Then it is ready for 
use. Pass with the gingerbread. 



Jrat 

Dundee Broth. 

Baked Calf's Head. French Beans and Fried Brains, 
Stewed Tomatoes. Potatoes in cases. 



Snowballs. 
Sweet Cream. 

DUNDEE BROTH. 

3 Ibs. of mutton cut into strips. 
2 Ibs of bones cracked. 



108 FEBRUARY 

1 carrot. 

2 turnips. 
2 onions. 
Bunch of herbs. 

Handful of chopped cabbage. 

Pepper and salt. 

J Ib. of barley. 

4 quarts of cold water. 

Put on the meat, bones, and sweet herbs, to stew in 
four quarts of water. Do not disturb for four hours. 
Meanwhile, pare and cut the vegetables into dice, and 
boil until tender in just enough water to cover them. 
Drain this off and throw it away. Cover the vegetables 
with cold water, a little salt, and let them stand until 
you have strained the soup. This should be allowed to 
cool to throw up the fat. Skim it with care ; put back 
over the fire. Salt and pepper, boil up, and skim again 
before putting in the vegetables, without the water in 
which they have been standing. The barley should, all 
this time, be soaking in warm water, just deep enough to 
cover it. Turn it now, with the water in which it has lain, 
into the soup. Let all simmer together one hour, and 
serve the vegetables in the soup. 

'BAKED CALF'S HEAD. 

Take out the brains and set aside. Wash the head 
carefully. It should, of course, be cleaned with the skin 
on. Soak it in cold, salted water, one hour, then in hot 
water ten minutes. Boil in three quarts of cold water 
for about an hour after the water begins to bubble. 
Take it out, saving the liquor when you have salted it, 
as stock for to-morrow's soup. Plunge the head into 
cold water for five minutes. Wipe carefully, put into 
your dripping-pan, brush it over with beaten egg, sprin- 
kle with bread-crumbs, and bake until nicely browned, 
basting three times with butter. Make a gravy of a cup- 
ful of the liquor, seasoned and thickened. Fry strips of 
ham, about an inch wide by four inches long, almost crisp 
in their own fat, and having laid the head upon a flat dish, 
dispose these about it. Serve a piece with each plate of 
the head. 



FIRST WEEK THURSDAY. 109 

FRENCH BEANS AND FRIED BRAINS. 

Open a can of string-beans one hour at least before 
they are to be cooked. Cut into short pieces, cover with 
hot water, and stew thirty minutes, but not until they 
break. Drain well ; stir into them two tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, in which have been mixed salt, pepper, 
and a tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Heap within a deep 
dish, and garnish with the brains. 

Wash the brains and lay in cold salt and water for an 
hour, then boil ten minutes. Leave in very cold water 
until firm say a quarter of an hour. Wipe, and chop 
fine, add a little parsley, pepper and salt ; make into 
small cakes by flouring your hands ; dip in beaten egg, 
then in cracker-crumbs, and fry in hot dripping. Drain 
thoroughly. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Season a can of tomatoes with salt, pepper, sugar, and 
a little chopped onion. Stew for twenty-five minutes and 
Stir in a large tablespoonful of butter. Simmer ten min- 
utes, and serve. 

POTATOES IN CASES. 

Roast large potatoes. Cut off a piece from the top of 
each, and lay it aside. Empty the insides carefully by 
the help of a small spoon not tearing the skins. To 
this potato, when mashed, add -butter, grated cheese, pep- 
per and salt, as suits your taste. Bind the mixture with 
a beaten egg ; heat in a saucepan, stirring to prevent 
scorching refill the cases, fit on the top of each, and set 
in a hot oven three minutes before sending to table in a 
warm napkin. 

SNOWBALLS. 

J Ib. raw rice. 
i quart fresh milk. 
5 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
A little nutmeg. 

Wa/ih the rice in several waters, and boil in the milk 
(always in a farina-kettle), adding a little salt and five 



HO FEBRUARY. 

tablespoonfuls of sugar, with a pinch of nutmeg. Stew 
gently until the rice is soft and has soaked up the milk. 
Fill small cups with the rice, pressing it down firmly, and 
let it get cold. At dinner-time, turn it out upon a large 
flat dish, or pile within a glass bowl. Eat with sweet- 
ened cream. 

SWEET CREAM. 

2 cups of cream. 

3 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 
2 teaspoonfuls of rose-water. 

Stir the sugar into the cream until it is dissolved ; then 
the rose-water. 



Jir0t tDedt. Jiribaj). 

Calf's Feet Soup. 
Salt Mackerel with Cream Sauce. 

Larded Sweetbreads, Stewed, 
Mashed Potatoes. Stewed Celery. 

Omelette Souffle. 
Tea and Toasted Crackers. 



CALF'S FEET SOUP. 

4 calf's feet. 

1 onion. 

Bunch of sweet herbs. 

2 stalks of celery. 
4 cloves. 

2 eggs. 

i cup of milk. 
Pepper and salt. 

i quart of cold water, and the liquor in which the calf I 
head was boiled, yesterday. 



FIRST WEEK FRIDAY. Ill 

In bespeaking your calf s head from your butcher, ask 
also for four nice feet, already cleaned. (You can secure 
your sweetbreads at the same time. ) Put on the feet in 
a quart of cold water. Cover closely and heat gradually 
to a very gentle boil. Keep this up until the feet begin 
to shrink from the bones about two hours. Should the 
water fall perceptibly, fill up from the tea-kettle. Have 
ready the vegetables, herbs, and spice, the former cut up 
small. Put them into the liquor left from yesterday's 
head, and when you have heated this to a boil, add the 
feet with the water in which they are cooking. Boil for 
another hour, still slowly. Strain the soup, cool to make 
the grease rise. Skim, season, and return to the fire. 
When again boiling, stir in the milk, and the meat from 
the feet, cut into dice. Take out a cupful of the soup 
and pour, by degrees, over the beaten eggs. Return to 
the pot, stir two minutes, and serve. 

A very nice soup, and a nutritious. If you cannot get 
calf s feet, use those of a pig instead, cooking exactly in 
the same way. 

SALT MACKEREL, WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

Soak overnight in lukewarm water, changing this in 
the morning for ice-cold. Rub all the salt off, and wipe 
dry. Grease your gridiron with butter, and rub the fish 
on both sides with the same, melted. Then broil quickly 
over a clear fire, turning with a cake-turner so as not to 
break it. Lay upon a hot-water dish, and cover until the 
the sauce is ready. 

Heat a small cup of milk to scalding. Stir into it a 
teaspoonful of corn-starch, wet up with a little water. 
When this thickens", add two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. Beat an egg light, 
pour the sauce gradually over it, put the mixture again 
over the fire, and stir one minute, not more. Pour upon 
the fish, and let all stand, covered, over the hot water 
in the chafing-dish. Put fresh boiling water under the 
dish before sending to table. 



112 FEBRUARY. 

MASHED POTATOES* 

Beaten light with milk and butter, and smoothed into a 
mound, should be served with the fish. If you have a 
pretty butter-print, wet it, and stamp the top of the 
mound. 

Remember that everything tastes better for looking 
well. 

LARDED SWEETBREADS, STEWED. 

3 or 4 fine sweetbreads. 

J Ib. fat salt pork, cut into " lardoons," or long narrow 

strips, 
i cup of gravy (saved from the roast calf s head of 

yesterday). 

1 tablespoonful of tomato or other catsup. 
Juice of half a lemon. 

Season with pepper. 

Parboil the sweetbreads for five minutes. The water 
should boil when they are dropped in. Take out and lay 
at once in ice-cold water. This makes them firm. 
Leave in this five minutes, wipe dry, and set aside to get 
cold. Then lard with the strips of pork, passing them 
quite through, so as to project on both sides. If you 
have no larding-needle, use a long-bladed penknife. Put 
them into a saucepan ; cover with the gravy. If there 
is not enough, put in a few spoonfuls from the boiling 
soup. The gravy should be cold, however, when poured 
over the sweetbreads. Stew about twenty-five minutes 
after the boil begins. Take out the sweetbreads ; thicken 
the gravy with browned Hour, add catsup, lemon, and pep- 
per, the lardoons having salted it sufficiently. Lay the 
sweetbreads upon a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, 
and serve ; in carving, cut perpendicularly. 

STEWED CELERY. 

2 bunches of celery, the white stalks only, scraped and 

cut into short pieces, 
a beaten eggs. 
i cup of milk. 



FIRST WEEK FRIDAY. 113 

i tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour. 
Pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. 

Stew the celery in a little salted hot water until quite 
tender. Drain off the water and put in the milk, cold. 
So soon as it boils, stir in the butter, rolled in flour, pep- 
per, salt, and nutmeg. Add a few spoonfuls of the hot 
milk to the beaten eggs that they may not curdle in the 
saucepan ; put with the celery and sauce over the fire ; 
boil up once, and dish. 

OMELETTE SOUFFLE. 

8 eggs. 

5 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, 
i tablespoonful of butter. 
Vanilla or rose-water flavoring. 

Whip the whites to a very stiff froth, thick enough to be 
cut with a knife. Beat the yolks smooth and long ; add to 
these the sugar, whip up well, and flavor. Grease a neat 
pudding-dish abundantly with the tablespoonful of butter. 
The last thing before you take your seat at the table, do 
all this ; stir -whites and yolks together, and put into a 
steady, not too hot, oven. If you have a teachable cook, 
let her learn how to put the prepared ingredients together 
after dinner has gone in. The oven-door should be 
opened as seldom as possible, certainly not under fifteen 
minutes. By this time the omelette should have risen 
high, and be of a golden brown. Partly close the oven- 
door, to keep it hot, and let it be served as soon as possi- 
ble in the bake-dish. 

Never attempt this or any other nerve-trying dish, for the 
first time, for others than a family party. Yet it is easy 
enough when you have once learned for yourself how long 
to cook it, and how soon it will fall. 

TEA AND TOASTED CRACKERS. 

Split Boston crackers, toast, butter ; put where they will 
keep hot, and pass with an after-dinner cup of tea. 



114 FEBRUARY. 



fmt tDtek. 



Gravy and Sago Soup. 

Boiled Corned Beef. Baked Macaroni. 

Cauliflower, with Sauce. Mashed Turnips. 

Jelly Tartlets. 
Apples and Nuts. 



GRAVY AND SAGO SOUP. 

4 Ibs. coarse beef, cut into strips. 

3 Ibs. of bones. 

i slice of lean corned ham. 

4 onions. 

4 cloves. 

1 bunch 'of sweet herbs. 
Ib. of German sago. 
Pepper and salt. 

5 quarts of water. 

2 stalks of celery, cut small. 

' Cut the beef into narrow strips, the onions into slices. 
Fry the latter brown in dripping, strain them out, and set 
aside. Return the dripping to the pan, and fry the meat 
until it is nicely browned, but not crisp. Lastly, fry the 
bones in the same fat. They should be broken up small. 
Put meat, bones, celery, spice, and onions into a pot with 
a quart of cold water ; cover closely, and put where it will 
not boil under an hour, but will heat all the time. This 
is to draw out color and open the pores (so to speak) of 
the meat. So soon as it boils add four quarts more of 
cold water. Set where it will boil steadily, but never fast, 
for five hours. Strain, and cool sufficiently to make the 
fat rise. Take it off, put back over the fire, season, boil 
up and skim ; put in the sago, which should have been 
soaked two hours in a little water, simmer fifteen minutes 
and serve. 

Save all that is left from dinner, for Monday. 



FIRST WEEK SATURDAY. 1 15 

BOILED CORNED BEEF. 

Wash well, and put over the fire in hot water plenty 
of it and boil twenty minutes for each pound of meat. 
Turn three times while cooking. Drain dry, and serve 
with drawn butter in a boat. " Draw " the butter in liq- 
uor taken from the pot. Keep the rest of the liquor for 
the base of Sunday's soup. 

MASHED TURNIPS. 

Pare, quarter, and lay in cold water half an hour. Put 
on in boiling water, and cook until tender. Drain, mash, 
and press to get out the water, work in pepper, salt, and 
a generous lump of butter. Do all this quickly not to 
cool the turnips, and pile smoothly in a hot, deep dish. 

CAULIFLOWER, WITH SAUCE. 

Pick off the leaves and cut the stem close. Do not cut 
the cauliflower unless very large. Lay in cold water for 
thirty minutes, tie in coarse bobbinet lace or mosquito 
net, and cook in boiling water, slightly salted, until tender. 
Lay the cauliflower, flower upward, within a hot dish, and 
pour the sauce over it. 

SAUCE FOR THE ABOVE. 

Stir into a cup of boiling water a tablespoonful of flour, 
wet up with cold. When it has boiled two minutes, add 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, the white of an egg whipped 
stiff, pepper and salt, and the juice of a lemon. Boil one 
minute, and pour over the cauliflower. 

BAKED MACARONI. 

Break half a pound of macaroni into pieces an inch 
long, and cook in boiling water, slightly salted, twenty 
minutes. Drain, and put a layer in the bottom of a greased 
bake-dish, upon this some grated cheese Parmesan, if you 
can get it and tiny bits of butter. Then more macaroni, 
and so on, filling the dish, with grated cheese on top. 



Il6 FEBRUARY. 

Wet with a little milk, and salt lightly. Bake, covered 
half an hour, then brown. Serve in the bake-dish. 

JELLY TARTLETS. 

i Ib. of flour. 
\ Ib. of butter. 
Ib. of lard. 
Yolk of an egg. 
Ice-water. 

Wash the butter in three waters, working it over well 
to get out the salt. Melt it in a tin cup set in boiling 
water, take the scum from the top, and let it get almost 
cold, when beat, little by little, into the whipped egg. 
Work these into the flour, adding just enough ice-water to 
make the paste soft enough to roll out. When you have 
rolled it into a thin sheet, spread all over with the lard, 
put on with a knife. Sprinkle lightly with flour, roll up, 
and flatten with three or four strokes of the rolling-pin. 
Roll again into a yet thinner sheet ; again lubricate with 
the lard and sprinkle with flour, and, once more, make 
into a tight roll. Set for an hour in a cold place. Cut in 
two. Set aside enough for your Monday's dessert ; line 
small "patty-pans" with the rest, pricking the paste on 
the bottom to keep it from puffing too high. Bake in a 
quick oven, and when cold put a tablespoonful of sweet 
jelly or jam in each. 

APPLES AND NUTS, 

Especially the former, are better for very young stomachs 
than pastry, 



SECOND WEEK SUNDAY. II? 

Seconir 



Mock Turtle Bean Soup. 

Haunch of Venison. Moulded Potatoes. 

Lima Beans. Sweet Potatoes, Browned. 

Wine Jelly with Whipped Cream. 
Coffee and Fancy Cakes. 

MOCK. TURTLE BEAN SOUP. 

1 quart of mock turtle soup beans. 

2 onions, chopped. 

4 stalks of celery, cut small. 

Liquor in which the corned beef of yesterday was 

boiled. 
Pepper. 

Dice of fried bread. 
i quart of cold water. 
i tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour. 

Soak the beans overnight. In the morning, pour on a 
quart of cold water, and set them where they will heat 
for an hour, without burning. Stir up often from the bot- 
tom. At the end of this time add the beef liquor (after 
taking off the fat), the onions, and celery. Cook gently 
three hours, until the beans are boiled to pieces. Strain, 
season, put back into the kettle, boil up, season with pep- 
per, stir in the butter rolled in flour. Simmer five min- 
utes, and pour upon the fried bread in the tureen. 

If you cannot get the purple "mock turtle soup beans," 
use the common white ones. 

HAUNCH OF VENISON. 

Wash all over with lukewarm vinegar and water ; then 
rub well with butter or lard to soften the skin. Cover 
the top and sides with foolscap paper, well greased, and 
coat it with a paste of flour and water, half an inch thick. 
Lay over this a large sheet of thin wrapping-paper, and 



Il8 FEBRUARY. 

over this another of stout foolscap. Tie all down in 
place .by greased pack-thread. The papers should also 
be thoroughly greased. 

Thus much on Saturday and set the venison in a very 
cold place. Next day, about three hours before it will be 
needed, put into the dripping-pan, with two cups of boil- 
ing water in the bottom. Invert another pan over it to 
keep in the steam ; be sure that the fire is good, and leave 
it to itself for an hour. Then see that the paper is not 
scorching ; wet it all over with hot water and a ladleful 
of gravy ; cover and let it alone for an hour and a ha'.f 
more. Remove the papers and paste, and test with a 
skewer in the thickest part. If it goes in readily, close 
the oven, and let it brown for half an hour. Baste freely 
four times with claret and butter ; at last dredge with 
flour and rub over with butter to make a froth. Take it 
up, put upon a hot ^dish. Skim the gravy left in the 
dripping pan, strain it, thicken with browned flour ; add 
two teaspoonfuls of currant-jelly, a glass of claret, pepper 
and salt. Boil up for an instant, and serve in a gravy- 
boat. Allow a quarter of an hour to the pound in roast- 
ing venison. The neck can be roasted in the same way 
as the haunch. 

MASHED POTATOES MOULDED. 

Having mashed and seasoned them as usual, grease 
well the inside of a fluted pudding or cake mould, put in 
the potato, cover, and set for half an hour in a dripping- 
pan half full of boiling water, within a moderate oven. 
Then remove the lid, dip, for a moment, the mould ia 
cold water, and turn the potato out upon a flat dish. 

LIMA BEANS. 

You can get them canned, but they are nearly, if not 
quite as good dried. In this case soak them overnight 
in soft water. Change this in the morning for fresh, and 
put them on to boil in hot water, a little salted. Cook 
slowly until soft. Do not boil so fast as to break the 
skins. . Drain well, stir in a good piece of butter, a little 
pepper and salt, and eat very hot. 



SECOND WEEK SUNDAY. 

SWEET POTATOES BROWNED. 

Boil in their skins, peel while hot, and set them in a 
quick oven v Glaze presently with butter, repeating the 
process, several times, as they brown. 

WINE JELLY WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 

1 package of Coxe's gelatine, soaked for two hours in a 

large cup of cold water. 

2 cups of white wine, or pale sherry. 

i lemon, all the juice and half the grated peel. 

1 teaspoonful of bitter almond extract. 

2 cups of white sugar. 

2 cups of boiling water. 

Put soaked gelatine, lemon, sugar, and flavoring extract 
together, and cover closely for half an hour. Pour on 
boiling water, stir and strain. Add the wine, strain again 
through a flannel bag, without squeezing, and leave in a 
mould wet with cold water, until just before the Sunday 
dinner. 

Whip a cup of rich cream to a thick froth in a syllabub- 
churn. The jelly should have been formed in an open 
mould one with cylinder in the middle. Fill the hollow 
left by this with the whipped cream ; or, if your jelly be 
a solid mass, heap the cream about the base. 

COFFEE AND MACAROONS 

Should be the final course. I make no apology for 
hot and good Sunday dinners. There is a vast deal of 
straining out infinitesimal gnats and swallowing gigantic 
camels upon this, as upon most other questions of con- 
science. We have neither time nor space for their dis- 
cussion. I have simply tried to deal with the fact that 
most husbands, brothers, and fathers expect a better din- 
ner on Sabbath, and enjoy it more, than upon other days, 
by showing, to the best of my ability, how they can be 
gratified without imposing heavy duties upon mistress and 
servants at a season when both mind and body need com- 
parative rest. 



I2O FEBRUARY. 



geconir 



" Second Thoughts " Soup. 

Larded Venison. Scalloped Tomatoes. 

Grape Jelly. Fried Sweet Potatoes* 

Raspberry and Currant Jelly Tart. 

"SECOND THOUGHTS" SOUP. 

Heat Saturday's soup to a boil ; add two cups of 
milk, and when this heats, pour a little of it upon two 
beaten eggs. Return these to the soup, add whatever 
seasoning is necessary ; simmer all together for one min- 
ute, and pour upon three or four tablespoonfuls of grated 
cheese placed in the bottom of the tureen. Stir up well, 
and it is ready. 

LARDED VENISON. 

Trim the remains of the roast haunch into a neat shape, 
and lard with strips of fat pork, making incisions to re- 
ceive it with a thin, sharp-edged knife. Pour what gravy 
you have over it, or should there be none, use butter 
and water instead. Put into a dripping-pan, turn another 
over it and roast or steam for one hour. Meantime, 
make a gravy of the trimmings, bits of bone, etc., by 
covering them well with cold water, and adding half an 
onion, sliced. Stew until the gravy is reduced one-half. 
Strain, season with pepper ; a tablespoonful of currant- 
jelly, one of catsup and two of claret. Thicken slightly 
with browned flour, boil up to mix well, and pour gradu- 
ally over the meat. Baste abundantly with this for half 
an hour if the piece of meat be large. Less time may 
suffice for a small roast. Never let it dry for an instant. 
When done, it should seem to have been stewed rather 
than roasted. Serve the gravy in a sauce-boat. 

Like some other " second thoughts," this dish will be 
even better than at its first appearance. 



SECOND WEEK MONDAY. 121 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Turn nearly all the juice off from a can of tomatoes. 
Salt and pepper this, by the way, and put aside in a cool 
place for some other day's soup. Put a layer of bread- 
crumbs in the bottom of a buttered pie-dish ; on them 
one of tomatoes ; sprinkle with salt, pepper, and some 
bits of butter, also a little sugar. Another layer of 
crumbs, another of tomatoes seasoned then a top 
layer of very fine, dry crumbs. Bake covered until bub- 
bling hot, and brown quickly. 

FRIED SWEET POTATOES. 

Slice cold ones left from yesterday, or boiled this fore- 
noon ; roll in flour and fry in dripping. Drain well. 

RASPBERRY AND CURRANT JELLY TART. 

Roll out the raw paste reserved for to-day from Satur- 
day, and line two pie-dishes. Fill them nearly full of 
canned raspberries, sweetened to your liking. Spread a 
coating of currant jelly over the top, and cover with a 
lattice-work of pastry, cut with a jagging-iron. Watch 
your chance of putting them into the oven, as they are 
better when not hot. 

You will like them, I think. 



Clam Soup. 

Ragout of Veal. Rice and Cheese. 

Potato Puff. Celery Salad. 

A Mere Trifle. 

CLAM SOUP. 
50 clams, ready opened, 
i quart of milk. 



122 FEBRUARY. 

I pint of water. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

12 whole peppers. 

A few bits of red pepper pods. 

6 blades of mace. 

Salt to taste. 

i stalk of celery, cut small. 

i tablespoonful rice-flour or corn-starch. 

Diain off the liquor from the clams and put it over the 
fire in a large farina-kettle, with a pint of water, the 
peppers, mace, celery, and salt. When it has boiled ten 
minutes, strain and put back into the kettle with the 
clams. Shut the lid down closely, and boil, fast, thirty 
minutes. Heat the milk in another vessel, stir into it 
the rice-flour, wet up with cold water, and the butter. 
Pour into the kettle with the clams, take at once from the 
tire, pour into the tureen, in the bottom of which you have 
laid four or five Boston crackers, split. Cover, and wait 
five minutes before serving. 

RAGOUT OF VEAL. 

5 Ibs. of knuckle of veal. 

1 onion. 

2 stalks of celery. 
Bunch of sweet herbs. 

Juice of tomatoes set aside yesterday. 
Juice of half a lemon. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of browned flour. 
J Ib. of streaked fat pork. 
Pepper and salt. 

Crack the bones, when you have taken the meat off, 
and put them into a saucepan with the minced onion, 
celery, and herbs, with a quart of water. Stew slowly 
until the liquor has boiled down to a pint. Meanwhile, 
cut the veal into neat slices, and fry until they begin to 
brown, in some good dripping. Strain the gravy made 
from the bones and vegetables over this, and put all on 
to stew, adding the tomato-juice, pepper, and pork, the 
last cut up fine. Simmer, with the lid on, for two hours. 



SECOND WEEK TUESDAY. 12$ 

Then add the browned flour, wet up in cold water, salt, 
if needed, the butter and lemon-juice. Boil up once, and 
dish. 

RICE AND CHEESE. 

Boil a cup of rice in a quart of water, slightly salted, 
and when half-done add two tablespoonfuls of butter. 
By the time the rice is soft, the water should have been 
soaked up entirely, and each grain stand out whole in the 
mass. Never stir boiling rice, but shake up the saucepan 
instead. Stir into the rice, at this point, three tablespoon- 
fuls of grated cheese, salt and pepper to taste. Toss up 
with a fork until the cheese is dissolved, and pour into a 
deep dish. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Mash the potatoes while hot. Beat in butter, milk, 
and two whipped eggs, with salt to your liking, until you 
have a light, soft paste. Bake in a buttered pudding- dish 
in a quick oven. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Cut up blanched stalks of celery into short pieces. 
Mix a dressing of one tablespoonful of oil to one tea- 
spoonful of sugar, one of salt, half as much pepper, and 
four tablespoonfuls of vinegar with half a teaspoonful of 
made mustard. Heat the vinegar to scalding, and pour 
over a beaten egg, a little at a time, and beating i in 
well. To this add the oil and other ingredients, whipping 
up the mixture with an egg-beater. When cold, pour 
over the salad, toss up with a silver fork, and put into a 
glass bowl. 

A MERE TRIFLE. 

i quart of fresh milk. 

5 eggs. 

6 Jablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Vanilla, or other essence, 2 teaspoonfuts. 

Heat the milk to boiling, and pour, gradually, upon the 
beaten yolks and sugar. Put again over the fire, stii 



124 FEBRUARY. 

steadily for about ten minutes, or until it begins to 
thicken. Take it off, and while still very hot, stir in with 
a few light strokes half of the frothed whites. Let it get 
cold before flavoring it. Pour into a glass bowl. Whip 
the remaining whites to a meringue with a little powdered 
sugar. Heap upon the custard. Put bits of bright 
jelly, or preserved strawberries, here and there upon the 
snowy mass. 



Swonir 



Hotch-Potch. 

Stewed Pigeons. Potatoes a la Lyonnaise. 

Kidney Beans. Mixed Pickles. 

English Tapioca Pudding. 

HOTCH-POTCH. 

2 Ibs. of lean beef, without bones, and cut into mince- 

meat. 
2 onions. 
2 carrots. 
2 turnips. 
? stalks of celery. 
J- small cabbage, cut fine. 
2 potatoes. 

1 cup of corn. 

Half a can of tomatoes. 
Bunch of sweet herbs, chopped. 
Pepper and salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Wash, scrape, and slice the vegetables, and put all ex- 
cept the tomatoes into a pot ; cover with h6t water and 
boil gently ten minutes. Drain off the water, put a hand- 
ful of the mixed vegetables, including now the tomatoes, 
in the bottom of a stone jar. Pepper and salt, strew 



SECOND WEEK THURSDAY. 12$ 

thickly with the minced raw beef, repeat the order until 
your materials are all in the jar. Fit a top or a small 
plate over the mouth ; tie down with stout greased paper, 
set it within the oven, and let it alone for five or six hours, 
except that you must look, now and then, to see that the 
paper does not take fire. Prevent this by greasing it 
abundantly. At the end of this time, turn out the hotch- 
potch ; stir in the butter, and, if needed, additional season- 
ing through it, and serve in a tureen. 

STEWED PIGEONS. 

Pick, clean, and wash the pigeons, and put into a pot 
with a cupful of water to keep them from burning, and a 
tablespoonful of butter for each one. Shut the lid down 
tightly, and subject to a slow heat until they are of a nice 
brown abuout nut-color. Once in a great while turn 
them, and see that each is well wet with the liquor. Take 
them out and cover in a warm place a colander set over 
a pot of hot water is best while you make the gravy. 
Chop the giblets of the pigeon " exceeding small " with 
a little onion and parsley. Put into the gravy, pepper 
and salt, boil up and thicken with browned flour. Return 
the pigeons to the pot, cover again tightly, and cook 
slowly until tender. If there should not be liquor enough 
in the pot to make the gravy, add boiling water before the 
giblets go in. 

This is an admirable receipt. 

POTATOES A LA LYONNAISE. 

Cut parboiled potatoes into dice. Chop an onion and 
fry it, with a little minced parsley, in good dripping or 
butter, for one minute. Then put in the potatoes. 
Stir briskly until they have fried slowly for five minutes. 
They must never stick to the bottom, nor brown. Sprinkle 
with pepper and salt, drain free of fat by shaking them in 
a heated colander, and send up hot. 

KIDNEY BEANS. 

Soak over night in soft water ; next morning cover with 
lukewarm, and cook slowly for one hour. Salt slightly 



126 FEBRUARY. 

and boil until tender, but not to actual breaking. Drain 
very well, stir in a liberal spoonful of batter, pepper, and 
serve. 

ENGLISH TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

i cup of tapioca. 

5 eggs. 

3 pints of milk. 

1 cup of sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
\ Ib. of raisins. 

Half the grated peel of a lemon. 
A little salt. 

Soak the tapioca for one hour in a pint of the milk 
pour into a farina-kettle, surround with warm water, sa,i 
very slightly, and bring to a boil. When soft throughout, 
turn out to cool, while you make the custard. Heat a 
quart of milk to scalding ; pour over the beaten eggs and 
sugar, this last having been rubbed to a cream with the 
butter. Mix with the tapioca lemon-peel and raisins last. 
Dredge the fruit lightly with flour, and beat all up hard. 
Bake in a buttered dish one hour at first covered. 

Eat warm, with powdered sugar. It is better for not 
being too hot. 



0minlr UUek. 



Celery Soup. 

Mutton Cutlets Fried. Stewed Corn and Tomatoes. 
Brussels Sprouts. Mashed Potatoes. 



Apple Meringue Pie. 

CELERY SOUP. 
2 Ibs. of veal. 

1 slice of corned ham, or a ham-bone. 
bunches of celery. 

2 cups of milk. 



SECOND WEEK THURSDAY. 12? 

2 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch wet up in water. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
I teaspoonful of sugar. 

i onion. 

Dice of fried bread. 

Pepper and salt. 

3 quarts of water. 

Chop the meat, onion, and herbs ; cover with the watei 
and put on to stew early in the day. When the meat 
has boiled to rags and the liquid reduced one-half, strain, 
and put in the celery, cut into small pieces. Use the 
best parts only. Stew soft ; rub through a colander and 
return with the broth to the saucepan. Season, add the 
sugar, boil up and skim, and put in the milk. Heat, and 
add corn starch. When it again boils, you stirring all the 
while, put in the butter. 

Take off so soon as this has melted, and pour over the 
fried bread in the tureen. 

MUTTON CUTLETS FRIED. 

Beat them flat with the broad side of a hatchet ; season 
with pepper and salt, dip first in beaten egg, then in 
bread-crumbs, and fry in lard or dripping. Drain per- 
fectly free from the fat, and arrange them, standing on 
end and touching one another, around a mound of mashed 
potatoes. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Prepare as usual, and shape with a knife into a smooth 
mound, with a hedge of cutlets about the base. 

STEWED CORN AND TOMATOES. 

Take a half-can of tomatoes and the same of corn, 
the rest of that which was opened for your " hotch-potch " 
yesterday, and, after mixing them up well, season with 
pepper, salt, and a little sugar. Set on where they will 
cook slowly. At the end of twenty-five minutes, stir in a 
great spoonful of butter. Put on the lid and stew very 
gently ten minutes more. Serve in a deep dish. 



128 FEBRUARY. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Pick over, trim, and lay in cold water for half an hour 
cook quickly in boiling water, a little salt, for fifteen min 
utes. Drain carefully, put upon a flat dish, and pour drawn 
butter over them. 

APPLE MERINGUE PIE. 

i quart of flour, 
j- Ib. of butter. 
Jib. of lard. 
Ice-water. 

Chop the lard in flour, wet up with ice-water to a stiff 
paste. Roll thin, and baste with one-third of the butter, 
sprinkle lightly with flour, and roll up. Again roll out, 
even thinner than before, baste again with half the re- 
maining butter, sprinkle with flour, and make a second 
roll. Repeat this process yet a third time, and set in a 
cold place for one hour. 

Cut the roll of paste into two pieces, reserving one for 
to-morrow's oyster-pie. With the other, line two pie- 
dishes and fill with good apple-sauce, well sweetened, 
and seasoned with nutmeg. Bake until just done. Draw 
to the oven door, and spread with a meringue made by 
whipping stiff the whites of three eggs for each pie, sweet- 
ening with a tablespoonful of sugar for each egg. Flavor 
with a little rose-water or lemon-essence, beat until you 
can make a clean cut in it, and spread three-quarters of 
an inch thick upon each pie. Shut the oven door until 
the meringue is well set. Do not let it scorch. Eat 
cold. 



SECOND WEEK THURSDAY. 129 



Seconi tDwk. Jnirag. 

Friars' Soup. 

Oyster Pie. Calf's Liver a TAnglaise. 

Apple Sauce. Stewed Parsnips. 

Potatoes au gratin. Picklette. 

Chocolate Custard. 

FRIARS' SOUP. 

4 onions. 

3 stalks of celery. 

of a small cabbage. 
2 turnips. 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
\ cup raw rice. 

2 eggs. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

i tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

3 quarts of water. 

Boil the vegetables, all chopped fine (reserving the 
parsley for seasoning), in three quarts of water until they 
can be pulped through a colander. Return them, with 
the water in which they were cooked, to the fire. Boil 
the rice, meantime, in a little water until it swells and 
absorbs it all. Stir into the vegetable porridge, season, 
and simmer 'for fifteen minutes. Add the butter, sim- 
mer ten minutes, dip out a cupful and beat into the 
eggs. Stir this into the broth, and before it begins 
to boil, take from the fire and pour out, lest the eggs 
should curdle. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Roll out the raw paste made yesterday into a pretty 
thick sheet. Fill a pudding-dish with crusts of stale bread, 
or light crackers. Butter the edges of the dish that the 
crust may be easily removed. Cover the mockpie with 
6* 



130 FEBRUARY. 

the pastry ; lay a strip cut in scallops or points, around the 
edge, to keep it in place, and bake. 

To each pint of oyster-liquor allow a cup of milk, but 
heat them in separate vessels. So soon as the liquor 
boils, put in the oysters and cook five minutes more. 
Stir a tablespoonful of corn-starch into the pint of hot 
milk, having, of course, first wet it up with cold water, 
and, when it thickens, pour over the oysters and liquor. 
Season with pepper and salt, and add two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, if there be a quart of oysters. Lift the hot 
crust from the pudding dish with great care. Remove the 
stale bread, wipe out the inside ; pour in the stewed 
oysters with enough of the soup to cover them well ; re- 
place the pastry and set in the oven for two or three min- 
utes. 

CALF'S LIVER A L'ANGLAISE. 

" 2 Ibs. of fresh liver. 
J Ib. fat salt pork. 
i tablespoonful of butter. 
of a small onion. 
i teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 
Pepper. 
The pork should salt it sufficiently. 

Put the butter into a warm not hot saucepan. Cut 
the liver into slices half an inch thick, and lay upon the 
butter. Mince the pork and cover the liver. Sprinkle 
the parsley and onion, with pepper, on top. Cover the 
saucepan closely and set in a kettle of hot water. Keep 
this water below the boiling-point for an hour. Then let 
it boil another hour. The liver should by this time be 
very tender and juicy, if the heat has been properly man- 
aged. Take it out, and put it upon a chafing-dish to keep 
warm. Boil up, and thicken the gravy with browned flour ; 
pour over the liver and serve. The inner saucepan should 
be made of tin. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Mash your potatoes, soft with butter and milk ; mould 
in a round pan or tin jelly-mould, made very -wet with 



SECOND WEEKFRIDAY. 13* 

cold water. Turn out upon a flat plate a sheet of tin 
is better well-greased, strew with fine, dry bread-crumbs ; 
set upon the upper grating of the oven to brown quickly. 
Slip dexterously from the plate to a hot dish. 

STEWED PARSNIPS. 

Boil tender and cut in long slices. Heat in a sauce- 
pan a cup of milk, thicken it with a tablespoon ful of 
butter cut into bits and rolled in flour, season with pep- 
per, salt, and a little nutmeg. Put in the parsnips, boil 
up once gently, take from the fire, and leave covered ri 
the saucepan for five minutes before you serve. 

PlCKLETTE AND APPLE SAUCE. 

Pass the first with the oyster pie, which is a course of 
itself; the apple sauce with the meat. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 

i quart of milk. 
5 eggs. 

1 cup of sugar. 

4 heaping tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate. 

2 teaspoonfuls vanilla extract. 

Scald the milk, rub the chocolate to a smooth paste in 
a little cold milk. Stir into the milk and cook two min- 
utes in it. Beat up the yolks of the five eggs with the 
whites of two, and the sugar. Pour the hot mixture, 
gradually, upon them, stirring deeply. Turn into a but- 
tered pudding-dish, and set in a dripping-pan of boiling 
water. Bake until firm. When " set " in the middle, 
spread quickly, without taking from the oven, with a m- 
ringue made by whipping the reserved whites stiff with a 
very little sugar. Bake until this is done. Eat cold. 



132 FEBRUARY. 



Becontr QJeek. 

Macaroni Soup. 

Baked Ham. Cheese Fondu. 

Stewed Potatoes. Spinach with Eggs. 

Seymour Pudding. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

3 Ibs. knuckle of veal. 
2 Ibs. of lean beef. 

1 Ib. lean ham. 

2 onions. 

1 carrot. 

2 turnips. 

Bunch of sweet herbs. 

J Ib. of macaroni cut into fancy shapes, usually known 

as" "Italian Paste." 
6 cloves. 

3 table spoonfuls of butter. 
6 quarts of water. 

3 stalks of celery. 

Mince the meat, crack the bones, and slice the vege- 
tables. Mix all together. Put the butter in the bottom 
of a soup-pot, next the meat, then the vegetables and 
herbs ; fit on a tight lid, and set the pot where it will 
warm very slowly. At the end of an hour, open it, pour 
off the gravy ; increase the heat until the meat begins to 
brown on the sides of the pot. Return the gravy to the 
rest of the ingredients ; cover with six quarts of cold 
water, and boil until the liquor has fallen to four quarts. 
This should be in four hours. Strain the soup ; press- 
ing out all the nourishment, and rubbing the vegetables 
through the sieve. Add the paste, or, if you cannot 
obtain it, the same quantity of pipe macaroni, boiled a 
few minutes in hot water, and left to get cool. Then, 
with a sharp knife or scissors, clip it into very short bits, 
and put into the soup. Season, boil up, skim well, and 



SECOND WEEK SATURDAY. *33 

let all cook gently together for ten minutes. Half of the 
above quantity of stock will be enough for Saturday's 
dinner. Therefore, before adding the macaroni, take out 
about two quarts, season well, and set aside for Sunday's 
> soup. 

BAKED HAM. 

Soak overnight in warm water. In the morning, scrub 
it hard ; trim away the rusty part of the under side and 
edges ; wipe dry ; cover the bottom with a stiff paste of 
flour and water, and lay, upside down, in the dripping- 
pan, with enough water to keep it from burning. Allow, 
in baking, twenty-five minutes to the pound. Baste a 
few times, to prevent the skin from cracking, and keep 
hot water in the pan. When a skewer will pierce the 
thickest part, take it up, plunge for one minute into cold 
water ; skin carefully, brush all over with beaten egg, then 
strew very thickly with cracker-crumbs, and set in a hot 
oven to brown. Eat hot or cold, garnished with sprigs 
of celery or parsley. 

CHEESE FONDU. 

i pint of boiling milk. 

i cup very dry bread-crumbs. (Crush the crusts baked 

in yesterday's oyster pie.) 
j- Ib. dry cheese, grated. 
3 eggs. 
Pepper and salt. 

Soak the crumbs in the hot milk ; beat in the cheese ; 
then the yolks of the eggs, pepper and salt. Have a 
buttered pudding-dish ready, and just before the fondu 
goes into the oven whip in the whites of the eggs, already 
frothed. Pour into the dish, bake in a brisk oven, and 
send at once to table, as it soon falls. This is a delightful 
accompaniment to ham. 

SPINACH WITH EGGS. 

Pick the leaves from the stems, wash well, and boil in 
hot water, a little salted, for twenty minutes. Chop and 
drain. Return to the saucepan with a tablespoonful of 



134 FEBRUARY. 

butter, a teaspoonful of sugar, a little pepper and salt, 
Have ready the yolks of three eggs, rubbed to powder, 
then wet up with a little cream or milk. Stir all together 
in the saucepan, beating with a wire spoon, until they are 
smooth and thick. Turn into a deep dish and garnish 
with the whites of the eggs cut into rings. 

STEWED POTATOES. 

Pare the potatoes ; cut into quarters, and these into 
long, even strips. Lay in cold water half an hour, and 
cook in boiling water until tender, with half a minced 
onion. Drain off nearly all the water ; pepper and salt, 
and add a cup of cold milk with a tablespoonful of butter 
rolled in flour. When it thickens, stir in a little chopped 
parsley. Simmer five minutes and serve. The potatoes 
should not be allowed to break so much as to lose their 
shape. 

SEYMOUR PUDDING. 

J cup of molasses. 

i scant cup of milk. 

cup of raisins, seeded and cut in half. 

J cup of currants. 

J cup of suet, powdered. 

% teaspoonful of soda dissolved in hot water. 

1 egg- 

I teaspoonful mixed cinnamon and mace. 

A little salt. 

i cups of Graham flour. 

Stir molasses, suet, and milk together, add the egg, spice, 
flour, fruit, well dredged with flour at last, the soda. 
Beat hard five minutes before putting it into a buttered 
pudding-mould. Boil two hours and a half. Eat with 
butter and sugar. 



THIRD WEEK SUNDAY. 135 



Beef and Barley Soup. 

Steamed Turkey. Naples Rice Pudding. 

Cranberry Sauce. Boiled Sweet Potatoes. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

BEEF AND BARLEY SOUP. 

Use the two quarts of stock set aside yesterday. Soak 
five or six tablespoonfuls of barley in cold water two 
hours. Boil half an hour or until tender, in a little salted 
water. When you have taken the cake of cold fat from 
the top of the soup, put in the barley and simmer all 
together half an hour. Then stir in two tablespoonfuls of 
shred gelatine previously soaked one hour in cold water. 
When this has dissolved, the soup is ready for use. 

STEAMED TURKEY. 

Prepare the turkey as for roasting, and. if you have no 
steamer, put a gridiron upon the top of a pot of boiling 
water ; lay the fowl upon it, invert a deep pan, as nearly 
as possible the size of the mouth of the pot, over it, stuff 
wet cloths into whatever space may be left between the 
pot and the pan, and keep the water at a hard boil, 
allowing twenty minutes for each pound of turkey. Two 
or three times, replenish the water by pulling away one 
of the cloths so as to leave an aperture large enough to 
admit the nose of the boiling tea-kettle. When the tur- 
key is half done, lift the pan and turn it ; replace the 
cloths and steam again. When it is done, lay upon a hot 
dish and baste with a mixture of melted butter and 
chopped parsley, anointing all parts of it well. Serve 
drawn butter in a boat, with a couple of boiled eggs 
chopped fine, stirred up in it. Save the giblets of the 
turkey for Monday's soup. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE 

In a mould, as .strained jelly, or the plainer dish of stewed 
cranberries, well-sweetened, must accompany this dish. 



FEBRUARY. 

NAPLES RICE PUDDING. 

Take a few tablespoonfuls of the meat boiled in yes- 
terday's soup, mince fine, add half a chopped onion, 
a tablespoonful of dripping from the top of the soup, 
and put on to warm with a very little hot water. Sim- 
mer, but do not boil, fifteen minutes. Boil one cup 
of rice in enough water, slightly salt, to cover it well. 
Shake up from time to time, but do not stir. When 
the rice is soft and has soaked up the water, add a cup of 
cold milk in which has been stirred a tablespoonful of 
corn-starch, one raw egg, and a tablespoonful of butter. 
Take from the fire before you do this and turn into a 
bowl. Stir in now the minced meat and gravy (there 
should be very little of the latter), season to taste, mix all 
up well, and put into a buttered cake-mould. Set this in a 
dripping-pan . of hot water and bake one hour, closely 
covered. Turn out upon a hot dish. It is a very good 
entree, and easily made. 

BOILED SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil in their skins until soft to the touch ; pare quickly, 
lay upon a flat dish, butter each, and serve hot. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

1 quart of stewed pumpkin, rubbed through a fine 

colander. 
6 eggs. 

2 quarts of milk. 

i teaspoonful of mace. 

i teaspoonful of cinnamon and the same of nutmeg. 

i cups of sugar. 

Beat the eggs light and whip in the sugar, then the 
pumpkin and spice. At last, mix in the milk, stirring up 
well from the bottom. 

Bake in open shells of paste made according to the re- 
ceipt given last Thursday. Eat cold, and send around a 
plate of cheese with it. 



THIRD WEEK MONDAY. 137 

Jttonbag. 



Giblet Soup. 

Turkey and Ham. Corn Puddings. 

Peach Pickles. Baked Potatoes. 



Farina Custard. 

GIBLET SOUP. 

Cut the giblets of your turkey into six pieces each, 
and stew, closely covered, in a pint of water until tender. 
Strain out the barley from the remains of yesterday's soup 
and if you have any of Saturday's in the pantry, strain out 
the vermicelli and add that. Warm this to a boil with 
the liquor in which the giblets were cooked. Boil up 
sharply and skim ; add the giblets, and while they simmer 
together, put two tablespoonfuls of butter cut into bits, 
and rolled in browned flour, into a frying-pan. Stir until 
it is hissing hot. Add to the soup with a handful of 
chopped parsley, and a tablespoonful of walnut or mush- 
room catsup. Boil up once and serve. 

TURKEY AND HAM. 

Cover the uncarved side of your steamed turkey with 
rather thick and fat slices of cooked ham. Three or four 
large ones will suffice. Bind them to the body with 
greased packthread. Lay the turkey, cut side downward, 
and the ham up, in the dripping-pan with a little boiling 
water in the bottom. Bake about three-quarters of an 
hour, basting the ham, when it begins to drip, with its own 
grease. Ten minutes before taking it up, clip the strings, 
and remove the ham to a hot dish. Dredge the upper 
side of the turkey with flour, and baste with butter to 
make a brown froth. Dish, with the ham laid around it. 

CORN PUDDINGS. 
Add to a can of sweet corn, 
i cup of milk. 
3 



138 FEBRUARY. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1 of sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour., 
i teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat up the eggs, add the sugar and butter, the milk, 
corn, and, lastly, the flour. Bake in earthenware cups 
well buttered, or in neat patty-pans. Turn out upon a 
dish, or eat from the cups. They are very nice when hot. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Wash, wipe, and bake in a moderate oven. When 
done, cut a round piece of skin almost entirely from the 
top of each, leaving a " hinge " at one side. With a 
small knife make an incision in the mealy part of the 
potato, /'. e., the heart, put in a pinch of salt, and a bit of 
butter, replace the flap of skin, and send hot to table. 

FARINA CUSTARD. 
i quart of milk. 
4 tablespoonfuls of farina. 

3 eggs well beaten, 
i cup of sugar. 

Vanilla essence 2 teaspoonfuls. 
i saltspoonful of salt. 

Heat the milk to scalding ; stir in the farina, which 
should have been previously soaked in a little cold water 
for an hour. Cook in a farina-kettle fifteen minutes, stir- 
ring often. Take out a cupful and beat into the eggs 
already whipped up with the sugar. Put into the kettle, 
stir in salt and flavoring, boil two minutes, and pour into 
a deep dish. Eat warm, putting a teaspoonful of sweet 
fruit jelly upon the top of each saucerful in serving. 



THIRD WEEK TUESDAY. 139 

Sfytrir 



Plain Calfs Head Soup. 

Boiled Mutton. Minced Cabbage. 

String-Beans. Beetroot Salad, 



Corn Meal Puffs. 



PLAIN CALF'S HEAD SOUP. 

Wash a calf s head (cleaned with the skin on), in three 
waters, and soak one hour in salted water. Then put on 
to boil in five quarts of cold water. Cook until the 
meat slips easily from the bones. Take out the head, 
remove the bones, and throw back into the soup. Set 
aside three-quarters of the meat the best portions for 
to-morrow's dinner. Chop the ears and other refuse parts 
fine ; season with salt, pepper, onion, sweet marjoram, a 
teaspoonful of ground cloves, and as much allspice even 
spoonfuls. Mix all up well, return to the soup and boil 
down to three quarts. Mash the brains and make into 
forcemeat balls with raw egg, seasoning and enough flour 
to hold them together ; roll in flour and set in a cool 
place until wanted. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter into 
a saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of browned flour wet 
up with cold water, and stir together five minutes. Strain 
the soup, put back two quarts over the fire, stir in the 
thickening of flour and butter, boil up and put in the 
forcemeat balls. Simmer ten minutes, add the juice of a 
lemon, and a glass of brown sherry, and pour out. The 
reserved quart of " stock " is for another day's soup. Do 
not put the calf s tongue into the soup. It is indispen- 
sable in to-morrow's ragout. 

BOILED MUTTON. 

Tli 2 best part for boiling is the leg. Put on in boiling 
water and cook, allowing fifteen minutes to the pound. 
Make a sauce by taking out a cupful of liquor when it is 
nearly done, cooling it until you can take off the fat, 
then heating again in a saucepan and stirring into it one 



140 FEBRUARY. 

tablespoonful of butter, two teaspoonfuls of flour, wet up 
with cold water. Stir for five minutes, putting in a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, and after another boil, take 
from the fire before you put in the juice of a lemon. 

In this, as in other cases where the liquor in which 
meat is boiled is to be used for broth, salt slightly vfhile 
cooking, sprinkling all over lightly with salt the moment 
you take it from the fire. Serve the sauce in a boat. 

MINCED CABBAGE. 

Boil a firm head of cabbage, quartered, in two waters, 
tnrowing the first away after ten minutes' cooking and 
putting in more as hot, and a little salted. When it is 
tender all through, drain and chop quite fine, seasoning 
with salt, pepper, and a liberal .portion of butter. Serve 
hot in a vegetable dish. 

STRING BEANS. 

Open a can of string beans an hour before they are to 
be used. Cut them into short pieces when you are ready 
to cook them ; turn off the liquor and cover them with 
cold water. Put into a pot with a bit of salt pork a 
little more than an inch square. Boil slowly until tender, 
strain, season with pepper, and serve hot, with the pork on 
top of the pile of beans. 

BEETROOT SALAD. 

Boil the beets until tender ; scrape clean ; drop into 
cold water for three -minutes. Slice, and pour over them 
a dressing of vinegar, salt, sugar, made mustard, pepper, 
and one tablespoonful of oil to four of vinegar. Cover," 
and let all stand together for two hours. This salad will 
keep for a couple of days. 

CORN-MEAL PUFFS. 

1 quart of boiling milk. 

2 scant cups of white " corn-flour." 
cup of wheat-flour. 

i scant cup of powdered sugar. 
A little salt. 



THIRD WEEK WEDNESDAY. 14* 

4 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 

i tablespoonful of butter. 

\ teaspoonful of soda. 

i teaspoonful of cream tartar. 

J- teaspoonful mixed cinnamon and nutmeg. 

Sift soda and cream tartar twice through the flour. 
Then, mix flour and meal together, and sift a third time. 
Boil the milk and stir into it the meal, flour, and salt. 
Boil ten minutes, stirring well up from the bottom. Take 
it off, put into a bowl, add the butter and beat hard for 
three minutes. Let it cool while you whip the eggs light, 
then the yolks and sugar and spice together. Beat these 
into the cold mush, and lastly the frothed whites. Whip all 
together faithfully, and bake in greased cups or small 
" corn-bread moulds," set within a steady oven. When 
done, turn out and eat hot, breaking not cutting them 
open, and after buttering sprinkling with white sugar. 



ffiljiri tDak. tDetme0irag. 

Marie's Soup. 



Ragout of Calf's Head and Mushrooms. 

Mashed Turnips. 
Creamed Potatoes. Tomato Soy. 

Sponge-cake Pudding. 
Nuts and Raisins. 



MARIE'S SOUP. 
2 sweetbreads. 

i quart of soup jelly, left from yesterday's stock. 
i quart of cold water. 

1 onion. 
Bunch of parsley. 

2 blades of mace. 



142 FEBRUARY. 

A dozen mushrooms. 

Pepper and salt. 

i tablespoonful of corn-starch wet up in cold water. 

Wash and scald the sweetbreads, and put on to stew in 
the cold water. When they have boiled slowly half an 
hour, salt, boil up and skim. Take all the fat from the 
top of the cold soup-stock, and stir into the liquor already 
on the fire. Add the onion and parsley minced, and the 
mace ; season to taste, cover and stew gently for one hour. 
Take out the sweetbreads and lay them where they will 
cool quickly. Strain the soup, return to the fire ; put in 
a dozen mushrooms (you can buy the French champignons 
in cans) stew fifteen minutes ; cut the sweetbreads into 
small squares, drop into the soup ; thicken with the corn- 
starch wet with cold water ; boil up once and serve. 

This soup is very fine. 

RAGOUT OF CALF'S HEAD AND MUSHROOMS. 

I cold boiled calf s head, cut into slices with the tongue, 
i can French mushrooms, minus those used for the 

soup. 

i sliced onion. 

Pepper, salt, and sweet herbs. 
teaspoonful mixed mace and allspice. 
Juice of a lemon. 
Butter or dripping for frying. 

Cut three-quarters of the calf s head-^-the best parts- 
into neat slices, also the tongue. Chop the rest, season 
with the onion, pepper and salt, cover with three cups of 
cold water, and stew gently down to one cup of gravy. 
Meanwhile fry the slices of meat in good dripping. Take 
them out with a wire spoon and put into the bottom of a 
tin vessel set within another of warm not boiling water. 
Cover and set over the fire. Drain, slice and fry the 
mushrooms in the fat left in the frying-pan. Drain and 
lay these upon the meat in the inner vessel. Time the 
cooking of the gravy so as to have it ready, spiced, and 
seasoned, to be strained, hot over the meat and mush- 
rooms. Put on a tight lid and simmer fifteen minutes, 
never boiling once Strain off the gravy into a sauce- 



THIRD WEEK WEDNESDAY. 143 

pan. Thicken, and let it boil up once. Add the lemon- 
juice, put the meat and mushrooms into a deep dish, and 
pour the hot gravy over all. 

i MASHED TURNIPS. 

Boil soft, drain and mash, pressing the water out well, 
return to the saucepan, with a generous lump of butter ; 
pepper and salt ; stir constantly until the butter is dis- 
solved, and all smoking hot, and serve in a covered dish. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

In mashing them, add more milk than usual, whipping 
up hard with a silver fork. While still very hot, beat in 
the white of an egg, already frothed stiffly ; pile in a deep 
dish and set, uncovered, within the oven, until a light 
crust begins to form on the top, but not long enough to 
injure the dish. Brush over with butter to glaze it, and 
serve. 

TOMATO SOY 

Is an excellent " stock " pickle. For directions for mak- 
ing it, please refer to page 488, " GENERAL RECEIPTS, 
No. i, OF COMMON-SENSE SERIES." 

SPONGE-CAKE PUDDING. 

1 stale sponge-cake. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
4 eggs, beaten light. 

2 cups of milk. 

i tablespoonful of corn-starch, wet up with cold milk. 

Juice of one lemon and half the grated peel. 

Slice the cake and lay some of it in the bottom of a 
buttered pudding-dish. Make a custard by scalding the 
milk, stirring into it the corn-starch, then pouring it, by 
degrees, upon the beaten eggs and sugar. Add the lem- 
on ; pour over the cake, put another layer of slices ; more 
custard, and so on, until the mould is full. Put a small, 
heavy plate on top, and let all stand until the custard is 
soaked up. Cover and bake, half an hour, or until done 
throughout. Turn out upon a flat dish, sprinkle thickly 
with white sugar, and eat warm or cold. 



144 FEBRUARY. 

NUTS AND RAISINS. 

Crack the nuts, and select for table use fair bunches of 
plump, fresh raisins. 



aijirb 

Potage au Riz. 

English Pork Pie. Mock Stewed Oysters. 

Potato Balls. Mixed Pickles. 

Lemon Jelly and Light Cake. 

POTAGE AU Riz, 

In plainer English, rice-broth, can be achieved for to- 
day, with little trouble, by the help of the liquor in which 
your mutton was boiled on Tuesday. Wash and soak 
a cup of rice in cold water. At the end of half an hour, 
add it, with the water in which it has soaked, to the 
mutton-broth, from which you must first take the fat. 
Boil very slowly two hours, and should the water sink be- 
low the original level more than an inch, replenish with 
boiling. In another saucepan heat a cup of milk, thick- 
ened with a tablespoonful of rice-flour. Season the mut- 
ton-broth with pepper and parsley it will hardly need 
salt. (Boil up and skim,' before the parsley goes in.) 
Pour the hot milk over two beaten eggs, stir in well ; add 
to the soup in the kettle, and take instantly from the fire. 

ENGLISH PORK PIE. 

3 Ibs. of lean fresh pork, cut into strips as long as youi 

finger. 

6 large juicy apples. 
2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Pepper, salt, and mace to taste. 

1 cup of sweet cider. 

2 tablespoorfuls of butter. 



THIRD WEEK THURSDAY. 145 

Good pie-paste for an upper crust, made according to 
receipt given for Thursday of second week in this 
month. 

Put a layer of pork within a pudding-dish ; season with 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg, or mace. Next a layer of sliced 
apples, strewed with sugar and bits of butter. Go on in 
this order until you are ready for the crust, having the 
last layer of apples. Pour in the cider, cover with a thick 
crust of good pastry, ornamented around the edge ; make 
a slit in the middle, and bake in a moderate oven one hour 
and a half. Should the crust threaten to brown too fast, 
cover with paper. When nicely browned, brush over with 
butter and close the oven door for a moment ; then wash 
well with white of egg. Eat hot. You will find it very 
good, odd as the receipt may seem. 

MOCK STEWED OYSTERS. 

Scrape and drop into cold water a bunch of salsify, or 
oyster-plant. Cut into short pieces and stew tender in 
boiling water, a little salted. Drain off nearly all the 
water, and pour into the saucepan a cup of cold milk. 
When again hot, add a heaping tablespoonful of butter 
and a handful of fine cracker-dust, with pepper and salt. 
Stir very slowly for five minutes, and pour out. It should 
be about as thick as oyster soup. 

POTATO BALLS. 

Mash potatoes with a little butter and salt, and let 
them get cold. Then work in "a beaten egg. Make into 
balls about twice the size of a walnut, with floured hands, 
roll them well in flour, and fry yellow- brown in good drip- 
ping or lard. Dram in a colander, and pile upon a flat 
dish. 

LEMON JELLY AND LIGHT CAKE. 

5 lemons juice of all and grated peel of two. 

2 large cups of sugar. 

1 package of Coxe's gelatine,' soaked in two cups of 

cold water. 

2 glasses pale sherry. 

i pint of boDing water. 
7 



146 FEBRUARY. 

Stir sugar, lemch-juice, peel, and soaked gelatine to- 
gether, and leave, covered, for an hour. Then pour over 
them the boiling water ; stir until the gelatine is dis- 
solved ; strain through a flannel bag, without pressing. 
Add the wine, and let all drip, untouched, through double 
flannel. Pour into a wet mould. In cold weather, or if 
set on ice, it will be ready for use in six hours. Pass a 
basket of light cake with it. 



tDeek. 

Lobster Bisque. . 

Stewed Chicken. Rice Croquettes. 

Crab-apple Jelly. Winter Squash. 

Apple Snow. 
Tea and Macaroons. 

LOBSTER BISQUE. 

I can of lobster. 

i quart of milk. 

i quart of cold water. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

% cup of pounded cracker. 

i teaspoonful of salt. 

A little cayenne pepper. 

Free the lobster from all bits of shell, and cut up small, 
tearing as little as may be. Put the water into a sauce- 
pan, with the salt and pepper. When boiling, stir in the 
lobster and stew half an hour. Heat the milk in another 
vessel* and, when scalding, stir in the cracker and set in 
hot water for ten minutes. The lobster having cooked 
for thirty minutes, add the butter, and simmer five min- 
utes longer. Then potfr in the milk ; mix all up well ; 
set for five minutes in hot water, and serve in a tureen, 
Pass sliced lemon with it. 
This bisque is delicious. 



THIRD WEEKFRIDA Y. 147 

STEWED CHICKEN. 

Prepare a fine young fowl as for roasting, with the ex- 
ception of the dressing, which should be left out. Early 
in the day (if you have no gravy already made) put on 
the feet and giblets to stew in two cups of cold water, 
with a little minced onion. When the giblets are very 
tender, and the liquid has boiled down to one cupful, 
strain it and set aside the giblets to cool. Chop a 
quarter of a pound of pork, put it in the bottom of a pot, 
lay the chicken upon it ; pour the gravy over it ; cover 
tightly and set where it will heat steadily, but not reach 
the boil under an hour. Increase the heat, not allowing 
the steam to escape, for an hour longer, but it should not 
stew fast at any time. By this time the fowl should be 
thoroughly done. Remove carefully to a hot dish ; sea- 
son the gravy, adding a little hot water if needful, and 
strain out the pork. Add the giblets, chopped fine, stew 
fast for one minute, pour over the chicken, and it is 
ready for the table. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 
2 cups of cold boiled rice. 

1 tablespoonful of melted butter. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 

i tablespoonful sugar. 

A little flour. 

Salt to taste. 

Work butter and sugar to a cream, and these into the 
rice. Salt, and stir up with the eggs to a smooth paste. 
Make into oval balls or rolls, with well-floured hands. 
Roil in flour, and fry, a few at a time, in sweet lard. 
Drain well and eat hot. 

WINTER SQUASH. 

Pare, take out the seeds, cut into strips, and lay in 
cold water, one hour. Cook in boiling water, a little 
salt, until very soft. Drain off every drop of water, and 
mash with a potato beetle, stirring in a large spoonful of 
butter, and seasoning with pepper and salt. Mound up 
in a vegetable dish and serve hot. 



148 FEBRUARY. 

APPLE SNOW. 

6 fine pippins (raw). 

2 cups of milk. 

4 eggs. 

i cup of powdered sugar. 

Make a custard by stirring into the hot milk half the 
sugar, the yolks of all the eggs, and the white of one, 
and cooking, stirring constantly until it thickens. Let 
this cool while you whip the whites to a stiff meringue 
with the rest of the sugar. Peel the apples, and grate 
directly into the meringue, stirring in at once that the 
coating of egg may prevent them from changing color. 
Put the cold custard in the bottom of a glass dish, and 
heap the snow upon it. Eat soon after making it. 

TEA AND MACAROONS. 

Pass after dinner in the dining-room, or send into the 
parlor. 



Sfyirir \ftttk. Saturbag. 

Ayrshire Soup. 

Mutton Chops and Tomato Puree. Potato Strips. 
Sweet Pickles. Boiled Beans. 

Macaroni Pudding. 



AYRSHIRE SOUP. 

4 Ibs. of lean beef. 

2 Ibs. of marrow-bones well cracked. 

2 onions. 

2 turnips. 

3 stalks of celery. 
Bunch of sweet herbs. 
6 large potatoes. 

^ cup of oatmeal. 



THIRD WEEK SATURDAY.. 149 

Pepper and salt. 

6 quarts of cold water. 

Chop the vegetables and herbs ; cut the meat fine, and 
break up the bones. Put the oatmeal to soak in a pint 
of water. Slice the potatoes, and parboil them in hot 
water for ten minutes. Add them then to the other 
vegetables, and put them all, with the meat and bones, 
into a soup-pot, with the water. Stew for four hours, 
until the liquor in the pot has fallen one-third. Strain 
through a colander, set aside two quarts of the stock 
until to-morrow, after seasoning it all, and return the rest 
to the fire. Boil up and skim ; add the oatmeal, and 
stew, covered, forty minutes, stirring often, lest it should 
burn. 

MUTTON CHOPS AND TOMATO PUKE'S. 

Broil the chops, after trimming them neatly ; rub, as 
soon as they leave the gridiron, with butter on both sides ; 
pepper and salt, and cover, for a few minutes, in a hot 
water dish, that they may take up the seasoning. 

Make the puree by stewing a can of tomatoes until 
almost dry, then seasoning, and stirring in a tablespoon- 
ful of butter rolled in flour. Simmer three minutes, ar- 
range the chops on their sides, overlapping each other, 
inside of the curve of a flat dish, and pour the puree 
within their enclosure. 

POTATO STRIPS. 

Pare and cut the potatoes in long strips, the length of 
the potato, and not more than the sixteenth of an inch 
thick. Lay in ice-water for one hour ; dry by laying on 
one clean towel and pressing another upon it, and fry, not 
too many at once, in hot lard, a little salt. Take out so 
soon as they are browned lightly, toss in a hot colander, 
and serve in a deep dish lined with a napkin. 

BOILED BEANS. 

Soak all night, and in the morning change the cold water 
for lukewarm. Leave in this two hours ; drain it off and 
put them on to boil in cold water, with a piece of fat salt 



ISO FEBRUARY. 

pork two inches square. Cook slowly until soft. Take 
out the pork, drain the beans well, season with pepper, 
and dish. 

MACARONI PUDDING. 

Ib. of macaroni broken into inch lengths. 
2 cups of boiling water, 
i tablespoonful of butter. 

1 large cup of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Grated peel of half a lemon. 
A little cinnamon and salt. 

Boil the macaroni in the water until it is tender, and 
has soaked up the liquid. It must be cooked in a farina- 
kettle. Add the butter and salt. Cover for five min- 
utes without cooking. Put in the rest of the ingredients. 
Simmer, after the boil begins, ten minutes longer, before 
serving in a deep dish. Be careful, in stirring, not to 
break the macaroni. Eat with butter and powdered su- 
gar, or cream and sugar. 



Potato Soup. 

Roast Beef. Baked Hominy. 

Sweet Potatoes, baked. Cabbage Salad. 

Arrow- Root Pudding^ Cold. 
Coffee. 



POTATO SOUP. 

3 pints of good stock, 
i quart of cold water. 
12 mealy potatoes, 
i onion. 
\ cup of rice. 



FOURTH WEEKSVNDAY. 15 1 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Seasoning to taste. 

Slice the potatoes, cover with boiling water, and cook 
ten minutes. Throw away this water, and add the quart 
of cold, slightly salted, and the onion, to the potatoes. 
Boil to pieces, and pass, with the water in which they 
were boiled, through a colander into the stock. Heat all 
together, and cook gently half an hour, before adding the 
rice, which should have been boiled soft in a very little 
water. When the rice is nearly dry, stir in the butter, put 
into the soup, and simmer five minutes. 

ROAST BEEF. 

A rib-roast is best for family use. Make your butcher 
saw off about half of the bone, after cutting the ends 
of the ribs clear of the meat ; then fold the flap neatly 
around to the thick part, and secure with skewers. The 
" trimmings " are yours a fact housekeepers often fail 
to insist upon. The meat is weighed before you buy it. 
Take all that you pay for and you will seldom be at a 
loss for a " base " for soup or gravy. Between butchers 
and cooks, there is enough wasted in American kitchens 
to supply a National Soup-house that might feed all the 
poor in the land. 

Put your beef in the dripping-pan ; pour a cup of boil- 
ing water over it, and roast ten minutes for every pound, 
Bake as soon as the juices begin to flow the oftener in 
reason the better. Jf your meat has much fat on top, 
cover it the fat with a paste of flour and water. When 
nearly done, remove this, dredge the beef with flour, baste 
well with gravy, strew salt over the top, and serve. Pour 
the fat off from the gravy ; return to the fire, thicken 
with browned gravy, season, and boil up once. 

SWEET POTATOES BAKED. 

Parboil, take off the skins, and, half an hour before you 
take up your beef, lay the potatoes in the dripping-pan to 
brown, basting them with the meat. They should be of a 
fine brown. Drain off the grease, and lay about the beef 
when dished. 



FEBRUARY. 

BAKED HOMINY. 

1 cupful of cold boiled hominy (small grained). 

2 cups of milk. 

1 large teaspoonful of butter. 
The same of sugar. 

A little salt. 

2 eggs. 

Work the melted butter well into the hominy, mashing 
all lumps. Then come the beaten yolks ; next, sugar 
and salt ; then, gradually, the milk ; lastly the whites. 
Beat until perfectly smooth, and bake in a greased pud- 
ding-dish until delicately browned. Serve in the bake- 
dish. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Chop a firm white cabbage with a sharp knife. A dull 
one bruises it. Make a dressing of two tablespoonfuls of 
oil ; six of vinegar; a teaspoonful each of salt and sugar ; 
half as much each of made mustard and pepper. Work 
all in well, the vinegar going in last, and then beat in a 
raw egg, whipped light. Pour over the salad, toss up 
with a fork, and serve in a glass dish. 

ARROW-ROOT PUDDING (COLD). 

3 even tablespoonfuls of arrow-root. Get the Bermuda 

if you can, or you may require more. 

3 cups of fresh milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

i tablespoonful of butter. 

Ib. of crystallized peaches, chopped fine. 

Heat the milk to scalding, and stir in the arrow- root 
wet up with cold milk. Stir ten minutes, and add sugar 
and butter. Stir five minutes more, and pour out. When 
nearly cold, beat in the fruit. Pour into a wet mould. 
Make on Saturday, and on Sunday, turn out upon a dish, 
and eat with sugar and cream. It is very good without 
the fruit, but needs more sugar in making. 

COFFEE 
Should be served last of all. 



FOURTH WEEK MONDAY. 1 53 



Jburtl) tihek. JHon&ag. 

Bread Soup. 

Cannelon of Beef. Pork and Beans. 

Chow-chow. Potato Stew. 

Peach Batter Pudding. 

BREAD SOUP. 

A few raw beef-bones and trimmings, spoken of yester- 
day. Bones, bits of skin, gristle, etc., left from Sunday's 
roast when you have cut off the meat for the cannelon. 

i pint of stock. 

1 onion. 

2 stalks of celery. 
Bunch of sweet herbs. 
4 quarts of cold water. 

1 Ib. stale bread-crusts, the drier the better, provided 

they are not mouldy or sour. 
Salt and pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Crack the bones, chop meat and vegetables ; put on in 
the water, and boil slowly down to two quarts. Strain the 
liquor ; let it cool ; take off all the fat, season, and re- 
turn to the pot with the stock. Boil up and skitn ; put in 
the crusts ; stew, covered, half an hour. Take it from the 
range and beat in the butter, taking out indissoluble bits. 
Then simmer, in a vessel set within another of boiling 
water, half an hour. 

As you will see, by a careful perusal of these directions, 
the preparation of this soup requires little actual expendi- 
ture of time. I beg, therefore, that you will " gather *up 
the fragments " from larder and bread-box, and give your 
family a hot, nourishing, u comforting " dish of porridge, 
if it is wash-day. 

CANNELON OF BEEF. 

Cut the meat from your cold roast, and chop it fine. 
Season well, and beat into it the yolks of three eggs and 
the white of one. Add one-third as much cold mashed 
7* 



154 FEBRUARY. 

potato as you have meat, wet up with gravy, and make, 
with floured hands, into a long roll three times as long 
as it is broad. It should be just soft enough to handle. 
Dredge thickly with flour, and lay in a greased baking- 
pan. Invert another one over it, and bake until it is 
hissing hot on top and sides, when uncover, and brown 
quickly. Brush over the outside with white of egg ; 
dredge again with flour, shut the oven-door to brown this, 
glaze again with egg, and shut up the oven for one min- 
ute. Carefully, with the aid of a cake-turner, slip the 
cannelon to a hot dish and serve. 

CHOW-CHOW 

Should go around with the cannelon. 



POTATO STEW. 

Pare and cut the potatoes into dice. Stew in hot 
water, with a slice of fat salt pork, cut very small, half a 
minced onion and a little chopped parsley, until the pork 
is dissolved and the potatoes very tender. Pepper, and 
if necessary, salt, and pour into a hot, deep dish. The 
" stew " should not be too liquid, nor yet stiff. 

PORK AND BEANS. 

This is a good, nourishing dish for Monday, and easily 
managed, if you have boiled the beans on Saturday. Fill 
a bake-dish nearly full of them, and put in the middle a 
piece of fat salt pork, about three inches wide, which you 
have parboiled in your soup. It will improve the taste 
of the " stock " and be itself the better for the temporary 
association. Pour in a little hot water to keep the beans 
from burning. Pepper and bake, covered, for half an 
hour. Remove the cover and brown. 

PEACH BATTER PUDDING. 

Open a can of peaches whole ones, if you have them 
and pour into the bottom of a buttered pudding-dish 
before you make your batter. There should be just 
syrup enough to half cover the fruit. 
For batter, take i quart of milk. 

10 tablespoonfuls of prepared flour. 



FOURTH WEEK TUESDAY. 155 

5 eggs, beaten light. 

i tablespoonful of melted butter. 

i saltspoonful of salt. 

Beat the jolks light, add the milk and salt, and pour 
slowly into a hole made in the middle of the flour. 
Finally, stir in the whites lightly, but not until you have 
beaten the batter smooth. Pour over the peaches and 
bake quickly. You can put it in the oven after the beans 
are done, setting the latter aside to keep warm. If you 
have not time to make sauce, eat with butter and sugar. 
Do not let the pudding stand after drawing from the oven, 
or it will fall. 



Jourtl) 



Cream Soup. 

Roast Breast of Veal. Stewed Tomatoes. 

Plain Boiled Potatoes. Celery. 

Essex Pudding with Jelly Sauce. 

CREAM SOUP. 
3 Ibs. lean veal. 
3 beaten eggs. 
2 blades of mace. 

1 onion. 

2 quarts of water. 
2 cups of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of rice flour (or corn-starch). 

Pepper and salt. 

Chop the meat and onion fine, cover with the water, 
and stew slowly three hours. Strain, cool and skim. 
Season and set back on the fire. Boil up and skim care- 
fully ; add the milk, and when hot, the corn-starch wet 
with cold water. As it thickens, take out a cupful, pour 
upon the eggs ; stir into the soup, and take at once from 
the fire. 



156 FEBRUARY 

ROAST BREAST OF VEAL. 

Mak2 incisions between the ribs and the meat, and 
stuff with a force-meat of dry bread-crumbs, chopped pork 
or ham, pepper, sweet marjoram, and one beaten egg. 
Save a little to thicken the gravy. Roast slowly, basting 
often and copiously. Dredge at the last with flour, and 
baste well, when this has colored, with butter. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Stew a can of tomatoes twenty -five minutes ; season 
with pepper, salt, a little sugar, and a tablespoonful of 
butter. Cook five minutes and serve. 

.PLAIN BOILED POTATOES. 

Pare very thin, and put on (after having lain half an 
hour in cold water) in boiling water. Cook fast until a 
fork will go easily into the largest ; drain off every drop 
of water, and throw in salt. Set back, uncovered, on the 
side of the range, or where they will dry quickly, yet not 
scorch. Serve in an uncovered dish. 

CELERY. 

Wash, scrape, trim off the green tops, and throw aside 
for seasoning soups, vinegar, etc., the rank green stalks. 
Lay the better parts in cold water until wanted for the 
table. Put into a tall glass or celery-stand. 

ESSEX PUDDING. 
2 cups of fine bread-crumbs. 
2 tablespoonfuls of sago, soaked three hours in a little 

water. 

f of a cup of powdered suet. 
5 eggs, beaten light. 
i cup of milk, 
i cup of sugar. 

i tablespoonful flour, wet in cold milk. 
j- Ib. of whole raisins, " plumped " by laying them in 

boiling water for two minutes. 
A little salt. 

Cook the sago in enough water to cover it until tender 
and nearly dry. Heat the milk and pour upon the beatei 



FOURTH WEEK WEDNESDAY. 1 57 

eggs and sugar, add the crumbs, beating into a good 
batter in a bowl ; then suet, flour, sago, and salt. Butter 
a mould thickly and lay the raisins, dredged with flour, in 
the bottom and sides, in whatever designs you fancy. 
Fill the mould with the batter well beaten up at the last 
putting it in by cautious spoonfuls not to dislodge the 
raisins, which should be imbedded in the butter. Put on 
the lid of the pudding mould, and boil one hour, never 
relaxing the heat. Dip in cold water and turn out upon a 
flat dish. Eat with jelly sauce. 

JELLY SAUCE. 

cup of currant jelly. 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

i lemon juice and half the grated peel. 

\ teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

i tablespoonful of powdered sugar. 

i glass of wine. 

i cup of boiling water. 

i teaspoonful flour. 

Beat the hot water gradually into the jelly, and add 
the butter, lemon, and nutmeg. Warm almost to a boil, 
put in the sugar, then the flour wet up with cold water. 
Boil up once sharply ; add the wine, and take from the 
fire. Set, closely covered, in a vessel of hot water until 
wanted. Stir well before pouring it out. 



tUeek. 



Julienne Soup. 

Veal and Ham Pie. Halibut Steaks, Broiled. 

Scalloped Potatoes. Stewed Cauliflower. 

Pancakes with Preserves. 



JULIENNE SOUP 



ENNE OU. 

a Ibs. of mutton, and a like quantity of veal, with some 
- 



158 FEBRUARY. 

2 carrots. 

2 turnips. 
Half a cabbage. 

3 onions. 

3 stalks of blanched celery. 
\ can of tomatoes. 
5 quarts of cold water. 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
2 teaspoonfuls of sugar. 
Bunch of sweet herbs. 
Pepper and salt. 

Cut the meat small, crack the bones, and put on to 
cook in five quarts of water with the herbs. While it 
simmers, prepare the vegetables, with the exception of 
the cabbage and tomatoes, by cleaning, paring, and cutting 
them into narrow strips about two inches long, and as 
nearly as possible of uniform size. Lay them in cold 
water for one hour. Drain very dry, and put them into a 
frying-pan in which you have melted, but not cooked, the 
butter, and dissolved the sugar. Toss them over a hot 
fire until they are coated with the butter, but do not let 
them scorch. Set aside in a clean vessel set within one 
of hot water. When the meat has boiled to rags, and 
the liquid is reduced one-third, strain it and set by until the 
fat rises and can be taken off. Return the soup to the fire, 
season, boil up and skim ; add the glazed vegetables, 
with the chopped cabbage which should have been par- 
boiled, then drained and the tomatoes, cut up small. 
Stew gently for one hour. Serve with the vegetables in 
it. 

This will make enough soup for two days, unless your 
femily be large. 

HALIBUT STEAKS BROILED. 

Wash and wipe the steaks dry. Broil upon a buttered 
gridiron, turning when the lower side is done. Remove 
carefully to a chafing-dish, and anoint with a mixture of 
butter, salt, pepper, and a little lemon-juice. 

Always serve fish upon hot plates. Pass , potatoes, and 
no other vegetable, with it. 



FOURTH WEEK WEDNESDAY. 1 59 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

3 cups of mashed potatoes. 

3 tablespoonfuls of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Yolks of four hard-boiled eggs. (Cut the whites in 
rings to garnish your fish.) 

Handful of dry bread-crumbs. 

Salt and pepper. 

Beat butter, milk, and seasoning into the potatoes while 
hot. Put a layer in the bottom of a buttered pudding- 
dish ; cover this with thin slices of yolk ; pepper and salt 
them ; spread another layer of potato over these, and 
proceed in this order until the dish is full, having the top 
layer of potato. Strew thickly with bread-crumbs. Bake 
covered until hot through, then brown quickly. Serve 
in the bake-dish. 

VEAL AND HAM PIE 

Cut the meat from the cold roast of yesterday. Put the 
bones, well-cracked, the refuse bits of meat and skin into 
a saucepan with an onion, a few spoonfuls of tomatoes, 
and three cups of cold water, and cook slowly until there 
remains but one cup of gravy. Strain and season, thick- 
ening with a tablespoonful of browned flour. Cut the 
veal into small, even slices. If you have no cold boiled 
ham, cook half a pound on purpose by boiling in your 
gravy stock. Slice this also, and lay upon the veal, with 
now and then a slice of hard-boiled egg. Fill the dish 
with alternate layers of veal and ham ; pour in the gravy, 
and cover with a thick crust of good pastry, such as you 
made last Thursday for your pork-pie. Bake one hour. 

STEWED CAULIFLOWER, 

When your soup is about half done, and before yo<t 
strain it, take out a cupful, strain through a thin cloth, and 
put into a saucepan, with a little salt and a tablespoonful 
of butter. Cut a cauliflower into small bunches, when you 
have washed and trimmed it, and lay these in the cooled 
broth. Stew slowly, covered, twenty-five minutes, turning 
the bunches now and then. When they are tender, take 
them out, lay in a covered dish to keep warm, stir into the 



I6O FEBRUARY. 

broth a tablespoonful of butter, cut into bits and rolled in 
flour, with nearly" half a cup of milk. Pepper, boil up 
once, and pour over the cauliflower. 

PANCAKES WITH PRESERVES. 

i pint of prepared flour. 

About a quart of milk. 

6 eggs. 

A little salt. 

Beat the yolks light, add the salt and two cups of milk, 
then the flour and beaten whites alternately, and thin with 
more milk until the batter is of the right consistency. It 
should be quite thin. Have ready in a small frying-pan a 
tablespoonful of butter or sweet lard, hissing hot, but not 
discolored by too long heating. Pour in enough'batter to 
cover the bottom of the pan, and fry quickly, pouring off 
the fat so soon as the cakes set. Turn it with a lift of your 
spatula and a skilful toss of the pan at the same time. 
As fast as the pancakes are done the same lard will do 
for several let an assistant spread each upon a hot plate 
and cover with sweet jam or jelly, rolling up neatly so 
soon as this is done. Sprinkle with powdered sugar, and 
set in a warm oven until you are ready for dessert. 



'Jburtlj (Dtek. 



Chicken Broth. 

Chickens and Rice. Potato Croquettes. 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes. Cold Slaw Cream Dressing. 

Poor Man's Plum Pudding. 



CHICKEN BROTH. 

Draw, stuff, and truss a pair of chickens, as for roasting ; 
tie soft pack-thread around their legs and wings, binding 
them close to their bodies, and put on to boil in four 
quarts of cold water, a little salted. They will require at 



FO UR TH . WEEK THURSDA Y. 1 6 1 

least one hoi.r's boiling, if they are of fair size. Do not 
cook fast, especially at first. Try with a fork if they are 
tender, and if it pierces the breast easily, take them up, 
butter well, and set in a warm place, covered. Take out 
a cupful of liquor when they are three-quarters done, in 
which to cook your rice. Strain the broth after taking out 
the fowls, season with pepper and chopped parsley and 
put again over the fire. Take off the scum, as it rises, and 
boil hard fifteen minutes. Then add a half cupful of rice, 
previously stewed soft in a very little water. Simmer a 
quarter of an hour ; pour in a cup of milk in which has 
been stirred a tablespoonful of rice-flour ; bring to a slow 
boil, and pour a few spoonfuls upon two beaten eggs. 
Return these to the soup, stir them in and take from the 
fire. Have ready the giblets and one hard-boiled egg 
chopped fine in the bottom of the tureen, and turn in the 
broth upon them. 

CHICKENS AND RICE. 

Parboil a cup of rice in a little water. When it has 
taken it up, and is about half done, add the cupful of broth 
taken from the soup, seasoned well. Cook the rice slowly 
in it until done. (Always cook rice in a farina-kettle, and 
shake, instead of stirring.) It should absorb all the gravy. 
At the last, stir in a beaten egg, mixed with a tablespoon- 
ful of melted butter. It is best to do this with a fork, and 
not a spoon. Make a low, flattened mound of the rice 
upon a hot dish ; remove the pack-threads from the 
chickens and lay them on the top. Pass grated cheese 
with it. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

To each cupful of mashed potato, add half a raw egg, 
beaten light, a little salt and pepper, and half a teaspoon- 
ful of butter. Beat well. Make into oblong balls, or rolls, 
flour well and fry. a few at a time, in boiling lard, or drip- 
ping. Drain off the fat and serve hot. 

BOILED SWEET POTATOES. 

Select those of uniform size, wash, wipe, and boil until 
a fork will penetrate them easily. Skin, set in the oven a 
moment to dry, and send to table. 



1 62 FEBRUARY* 

COLD SLAW CREAM DRESSING. 

I soiall head of white cabbage, shred fine. 

i cup of milk, scalding hot. 

j of a cup of vinegar. 

i tablespoon ful of butter. 

i egg, beaten light. 

i tablespoonful of sugar. 

i even tablespoonful of corn-starch. 

i teaspoouful essence of celery. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

Rub butter and sugar together and pour over them the 
hot milk. Beat into these the frothed egg. Put into a 
vessel set within another of hot water, add the corn-starch 
wet up with cold water, boil slowly until it thickens, and 
set aside. In another saucepan scald the vinegar ; put in 
the pepper and salt with essence of celery, and pour hot 
over the cabbage. Mix up well ; put back into the sauce- 
pan, and stir briskly over the fire until it is smoking all 
through, but not until it boils. Turn it into a bowl, stir 
into it the custard with a silver fork, until well mixed ; 
cover, to keep in the strength of the vinegar, and set it 
where it will cool suddenly. It is very fine. 

POOR MAN'S PLUM PUDDING. 

3 eggs. 

i quart of milk. 

Small loaf of stale bread. 

i tablespoonful of sugar. 

\ Ib. seeded raisins, cut in two. 

Cinnamon to taste. 

A pinch of salt. 

Butter. 

Slice the bread and cut off all the crust. Butter thinly 
and lay in order in a ze/^//-greased pudding-dish, strew- 
ing each layer with raisins. Heat the milk, put in sugar 
and salt, and pour over the beaten eggs. Lay a heavy 
saucer upon the top of the bread and soak with the 
custard. Let all stand half an hour, then set in a drip- 
ping-pan of boiling water, cover closely, and cook one 
hour, keeping the pan full of water at a hard boil. Turn 
out and eat with liquid sauce. 



FOURTH WEEK FRIDAY. 163 



Jburtl) tDcck. 



Wednesday's Soup. 

Boiled Cod. 

Chicken Pates. Cheese Fingers. 

Mashed Potatoes. Mashed Turnips. 

Sweet Potato Pudding. 

WEDNESDAY'S SOUP. 

The Julienne soup which, as I stated in the receipt for 
making it, was sufficient for two days, will have kept per- 
fectly well in the refrigerator, or in any cold closet. You 
have now only to warm it over not quite to the boil, and 
it will be even better than upon the first day. It is wise, 
sometimes, to skip a day with a rechauffe, for fear of 
wearying those for whose comfort your bills-of-fare are 
made up. 

BOILED COD. 

Sew up the piece of fish in a thin cloth, fitted neatly to 
the shape, and boil in salted water (boiling from the first), 
allowing about fifteen minutes per pound. Unwrap care- 
fully and pour over it a sauce made thus : 

Heat half a cup of milk and as much water together ; 
stir in a tablespoonful of butter, cut into bits and rolled in 
flour, and when it has thickened, pour by degrees upon 
two beaten eggs. Put back into the saucepan and stir 
for one minute ; add salt, chopped parsley, and a dozen 
capers or nasturtium seeds. Take at once from the fire. 

CHICKEN PATE'S. 

Line your pate-pans with a good paste, made according 
to either of the receipts already given this month, and 
bake in a brisk oven. 

Mince the chicken left from yesterday. Put the bones 
and stuffing into a saucepan with two cups of cold water, 
and stew down to one cup of gravy. Season this well, add 



1 64 FEBRUARY. 

three tablespoonfuls of milk when you have strained out 
the bones, a tablespoonful of butter, and a very little par 
sley. The stuffing should thicken it sufficiently. Stir in 
the chicken, warm until hot, but do not let it boil, or it 
will be spoiled. Fill the paste-shells, having taken them 
from the tins ; arrange upon a hot dish and set within an 
open oven until they are sent to table. 

CHEESE FINGERS. 

Cut good pastry, left from your pats, into strips three 
inches long and two inches wide. Strew with grated 
cheese, season with pepper and salt ; double the paste 
upon this lengthwise, and bake in a quick oven. Brush 
over with beaten egg just before taking them up, and 
sift a little powdered cheese upon them. 

Pile, log-cabin-wise, upon a folded napkin laid within a 
flat dish, and eat without delay, as they are not good cold. 

MASHED POTATOES AND MASHED TURNIPS. 

The receipts for these standard dishes having been 
already given this month, it is scarcely necessary to repeat 
them here. Bear in mind, always, that they must be 
served hot, and the turnips be well drained. 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

i Ib. parboiled sweet potatoes. 

\ cup of butter. 

| cup of white sugar. 

i tablespoonful of cinnamon. 

4 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 

i teaspoonful- of nutmeg. 

i lemon, juice and grated rind. 

i glass of brandy. 

Let the potatoes get entirely cold, and grate them. 
Cream the butter and sugar; add the yolks, spice and 
lemon. Beat the potato in by degrees, to a light paste ; 
then the brandy, lastly the whites. Bake in a buttered 
dish, and eat cold. 



FOURTH WEEK SATURDAY. 165 



Jourtl) tDttk. 0atur&ag. 

Bean and Celery Soup. 

Jugged Pigeons. Shred Macaroni. 

Currant Jelly. Brussels-Sprouts. 

Sponge-Cake Fritters, 

BEAN AND CELERY SOUP. 

i quart of dried beans, soaked all night. 

i bunch of celery the blanched stalks only. 

i Ib. of salt pork, cut into strips. 

1 Ib. of beef lean, also cut up. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Pepper. 

5 quarts of water cold, 
i onion, minced. 

. Cover beans, meat, onions, and half the celery cut into 
bits, with the water, and boil to pieces, and until the 
liquid is reduced one-third. Rub the beans and celery 
through a fine colander into the soup. Return to the fire, 
season with pepper, put in the rest of the celery, cut into 
inch-lengths, and simmer half an hour, stirring often, that 
it may not " catch " on the bottom. Set aside a quart of 
it, if you can spare as much, for Monday's soup. 

JUGGED PIGEONS. 

Clean and wash well, and stuff with a dressing made of 
the giblets boiled and chopped, a slice of fat pork also 
minced fine ; the yolks of two hard eggs rubbed to pow- 
der, some bread-crumbs, pepper and salt, bound with a 
beaten raw egg. Tie the legs and wings close to their 
bodies, and pack the pigeons in a tin pail with a tight 
top. Plunge this into a pot of boiling water; put a 
weight on top to keep it steady, and cook two hours and 
a half. The water . should not boil over the top. Drain 
off the gravy into a saucepan, thicken with a tablespoon- 



166 FEBRUARY. 

ful of butter rolled in flour. Season, \>oil up, pour over 
the pigeons. Cover again, and leave in the hot water 
ten minutes before serving. 

SHRED MACARONI. 

Break half a pound of pipe macaroni into pieces two 
inches long, and cook in boiling water, a little salted, ten 
minutes. Drain off the water, and spread the macaroni 
out to cool upon a dish. When cold, take a sharp knife 
or a pair of scissors, and split each piece in half, length- 
wise. Put on in a farina-kettle with a cup of hot milk 
and a tablespoonful. of butter, seasoning with pepper and 
salt. Cover and stew tender, but not to breaking. Ten 
minutes after the boil should do this. Then stir in three 
tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. Serve in a deep dish. 

BRUSSE LS-SPROUTS. 

Wash and pick over very carefully. Put on in plenty 
of boiling water with a little salt, and cook fifteen minutes 
after the water begins to boil anew. Drain well and pile 
upon a dish, with drawn butter poured over them. 

SPONGE-CAKE FRITTERS. 

8 penny sponge-cakes very stale. 

i cup of boiling milk, with a pinch of soda stirred in. 

4 eggs whipped light. 

i tablespoonful of flour wet up in cold milk. 

J Ib. currants, washed and dried. 

Roll the cakes into fine crumbs ; pour over them the 
hot milk, with the soda and flour stirred into it. Cover 
for fifteen minutes, then beat until cold. Add the 
whipped eggs the yolks first, then the whites ; finally, 
the currants dredged with flour. Beat all well. Drop in 
great spoonfuls in boiling lard, trying one first to be sure 
that the batter is of the right consistency ; drain quickly 
in a hot colander ; sprinkle with powdered sugar mixed 
with nutmeg, and serve hot. 



FIRST WEEK SUNDAY. 167 

MARCH. ' 
fmi \3Jttk. Suniag. 

Mushroom Soup. 

Roast Ducks. Savory Scotch Pudding. 

Spinach in a Mould. Grape Jelly. 

Green Peas. 

Turret Cream. 
Coffee. 

MUSHROOM SOUP. 

3 Ibs. of knuckle of veal, well cracked, 
i onion. 

Bunch of parsley. 

A slice of ham, or some ham or salt-pork bones. 

i can of French mushrooms. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
2 beaten eggs. 
Pepper and salt. 

i cup of milk. 

4 quarts of cold water. 

Crack the bones and mince the meat, onion, and pars- 
ley. Cover with the water, and boil gently three hours, 
or until the stock has diminished one-half. Strain, season, 
boil up and skim. Add the mushrooms, drained from the 
can liquor, and sliced. Stew twenty minutes ; put in the 
milk, the flour, wet up in cold water, and when it thickens, 
beat a cupful into the whipped eggs. Stir into this the 
butter, return to the soup, let it almost boil, and pour out. 

To the lovers of mushrooms this is a delicious soup. 

ROAST DUCKS. 

Draw, clean and wash a pair of ducks. Stuff one only 
with a dressing made of bread-crumbs, the hard-boiled 



168 MARCH. 

yolk of an egg, a little minced sage and onion. Rub the 
inside of the other with melted butter, pepper and salt. 
Many do not like the taste of onion and sage, while others 
do not enjoy roast duck without the flavor of these con- 
diments. Put the fowls into the dripping-pan, pour a cup 
of boiling water over them, and roast about an hour, 
basting frequently. At the last, dredge with flour, and 
baste with butter ; then brown. Chop the giblets fine, 
pour the fat from the top of the gravy in the dripping- 
pan, thicken with browned flour that which is left, and 
stir in the giblets. 

GREEN PEAS 

Have, from time immemorial, been the adjunct of roast 
ducks. As the best substitute to be had at this season, 
open a can of preserved green peas the French cans 
are best ; let them stand an hour to get rid of the airless 
taste that is apt to cling to canned vegetables ; pour off 
the liquor ; cook twenty minutes in boiling water, a little 
salt ; drain dry, and stir up in them a teaspoonful of but- 
ter, with pepper to your liking. 

SAVORY SCOTCH PUDDING. 

i quart of milk. 

i cup of best oatmeal, soaked all night in cold water. 

i cup of gravy. 

4 tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs. 

i tablespoonful of butter. 

3 eggs. 

Pepper and salt. 

When your soup is ready to strain, dip out a cupful and 
set by to cool. Take off the fat and stir into the soaked 
oatmeal. Mix up well ; put in a farina-kettle with boil- 
ing water around it, and add by degrees, as it thickens, 
the milk heated to scalding. When all is in, salt and 
pepper to taste and cook fast, stirring often, ten minutes. 
Take from the fire, and let it cool. 

N.B. If you have the gravy, all this can be done on 
Saturday. 

When cold, beat in the butter, melted, working out all 
the lumps and taking the skin from the top. Beat in the 



FIRST WEEK SUNDAY. 169 

whipped eggs, working up fast and hard. Pour into a 
buttered pudding-dish ; bake, covered, one hour, then 
brown. Serve in the bake dish. 

SPINACH IN A MOULD. 

Pick over carefully, clip off the stems and put on the 
leaves in boiling water, with salt stirred in. Boil hard 
fifteen minutes. When done, drain, pressing out all the 
water. Chop fine ; put back into the saucepan with a 
piece of butter a large spoonful for a good dish a little 
powdered sugar, salt and pepper to taste. Stir and toss 
until very hot ; press hard into a mould wet with hot 
water, and turn out with care upon a heated dish. Lay 
round slices of hard-boiled eggs on the top. 

TURRET CREAM. 

i quart of milk. 

i package Coxe's gelatine. 

i heaping cup of white sugar. 

3 eggs beaten light, whites and yolks separately. 

Ib. crystallized fruit 

Vanilla flavoring. 

Juice of a lemon in which half the grated peel has been 
soaked, then strained out. 

Soak the gelatine three hours in a large cup of cold 
water. Scald the rnilk, stir in the sugar, and when this 
has melted, the gelatine. Stir over the fire five minutes ; 
pour out half of the mixture into a bowl, and add the 
whipped yolks to that left in the saucepan. Stir one 
minute, and take from the fire. Flavor the yellow gelatine 
with lemon the white with vanilla. As soon as the yellow 
begins to congeal, whip one-half of the stiffened whites 
into it, a little at a time, with a Dover egg beater. Add 
the rest to the white gelatine, in the same manner, whip- 
ping each in until it stiffens before adding more, and not 
ceasing until both are heaps of " sponge." Wet the in- 
side of a tall fluted mould with water, and arrange in the 
bottom, close to the outside of the mould, a row of crys- 
tallized cherries. Then, put in a layer of the white mix- 
ture ; on this, close to the outside, strips of apricots or 
peaches ; then a layer of yellow mixture, another border 
8 



I/O MARCH. 

of cherries, and so on, until the materials are used up. 
Do this on Saturday. Next day, dip for one instant in 
hot water, -and invert upon a flat dish. 

Eat with brandied fruit. It will be a beautiful dessert. 

COFFEE. 
Pass with light cakes or sweet biscuits. 



ftloniag. 



Tomato and Bean Soup. 

Ham and Eggs. Fricassee of Duck. 

Stewed Corn. Glazed Potatoes, 



Queen's Pudding. 

TOMATO AND BEAN SOUP. 

Open a can of tomatoes ; take out the hard and unripe 
portions, cut up the rest in small pieces, and heat to a boil 
before adding the bean soup set aside from Saturday. 
Simmer all together half an hour, season to taste, and 
pour over the dice of fried bread you have put in the 
bottom of the tureen. 

HAM AND EGGS. 

Pour a little hot water in a frying-pan, if you use 
smoked raw ham for this dish, and cook the slices in it ten 
minutes. Let them get perfectly cold. Fry in their own 
fat until tender throughout and crisp at the edges. Drain 
the fat from them and arrange them upon a hot dish. 
Strain the fat, return to the pan, and fry the eggs without 
turning. Cut the ham in neat slices, lay an egg upon 
each, and serve. 

FRICASSEE OF DUCK. 

Cut the meat from the bones of yesterday's ducks, di- 
viding the joints neatly, and slicing the breast, etc. 
Crack the skeleton to pieces, and put it, with the skin, 



FIRST WEEK MONDAY. 1?1 

stuffing, and gristly bits, into a saucepan. Cover with 
cold water, and ste,v until a cupful of good gravy is ex- 
tracted. Strain and season this ; put in the sliced duck. 
Set within a pot of hot water and bring the contents of 
the inner saucepan almost to a boil. Add a couple of 
beaten eggs ; stir up well and set aside in the hot water, 
covered, for five minutes. The meat must not actually 
boil once. 

STEWED CORN. 

Open a can of corn, an hour before cooking it. Put it 
into a saucepan when you are ready for it ; cover with 
boiling water, and let it stand without cooking, for ten 
minutes. Drain off the water ; cover the corn with hot 
milk, a little salted ; set within a vessel of hot water, and 
cook for half an hour, or until tender. Stir in a table- 
spoonful of butter, cut into thirds, each rolled in flour ; 
simmer ten minutes, pepper, and turn into a deep covered 
dish. 

GLAZED POTATOES. 

Parboil them in their skins ; peel quickly and lay in 
the dripping-pan within a hot oven. As soon as they 
begin to " crust " over, baste with good dripping or butter. 
Repeat this three times until they are of a glossy brown. 
Eat hot. 

QUEEN'S PUDDING. 

10 fine pippins, pared and cored. 

Ib. macaroons, pounded fine. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

teaspoonful cinnamon. 

\ cup crab-apple or quince jelly. 

i tablespoonful of brandy. 

i pint of milk. 

i tablespoonful corn-starch. 

Whites of 3 eggs. 

A little salt. 

Put the apples into a buttered pudding-dish. Fill this 
half full of cold water : cover closely and bake until a 
straw will pierce them. Let them stand, covered, until 
cold. (Do this on Saturday.) Drain off the water the 
day you mean to use them. Put a spoonful of jelly and 



172 MARCH. 

a few drops of brandy into each apple. Strew with cin- 
namon and sugar. Cover and let them stand while you 
scald the milk, and stir in the macaroons, the salt and 
the corn-starch wet up in cold milk. Boil for one min- 
ute. Take from the fire, beat up well, and let it cool 
before whipping in the frothed whites. Pour this mixture 
over the apples and bake half an hour in a brisk oven. 
Eat warm with a sauce made of the water in which the 
apples were stewed, well sweetened and spiced, a table- 
spoonful of butter, rolled in flour and the beaten yolk of 
an egg. Heat the liquor, sweeten and season ; thicken 
with butter and flour ; boil up ; pour gradually over the 
egg, and set in hot water until it is needed. 



Jir0t 



German Sago Broth. 
Beefsteak and Onions. 

French Beans Oarnis with Sausages. 
Hot Slaw. 

Hasty Farina Pudding. 



GERMAN SAGO SOUP. 

3 Ibs. knuckle of veal, well cracked. 

1 onion. 

2 stalks of celery. 

Some pork bones, if you have them. 
Bunch of sweet herbs, minced. 

4 quarts of cold water. 
Pepper and salt. 

of a cup of German sago, soaked two hours in cold 
water. 

Chop the meat, celery, herbs, and onion, and crack the 
bones. Cover with the water, and cook slowly three 
hours, or until the meat is boiled to shreds. Strain, season, 



FIRST WEEK TUESDAY. 

boil up and skim well, put in the soaked sago and cook 
slowly half an hour. The sago should be entirely dissolved, 

BEEFSTEAK AND ONIONS.. 

Broil your steak as usual. Fry in a little butter one 
onion, sliced, until brown. Strain it out, and when your 
steak is done, and laid upon a hot dish, pour the butter in 
which the onion was fried over it. Add pepper and salt, 
and the faintest suspicion of made mustard, turn over it 
a hot cover and let it stand five minutes before serving. 

FRENCH BEANS GARNIS WITH SAUSAGES. 
Open a can of " string " beans, cut in short pieces, 
cover with boiling water, slightly salted, and cook tender. 
Drain well, stir in a tablespoonful of butter, a little pepper 
and salt, and heap upon a hot dish. Surround with sau- 
sages, in cakes or in cases, fried in their own fat, and 
drained from the grease. Serve hot. 

HOT SLAW. 

i small, firm head of cabbage, shred fine, 
i cup of vinegar, 
i tablespoonful of butter. 

1 tablespoonful of sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sour cream. 
J teaspoonful of made mustard. 

i saltspoonful of pepper and the same of salt. 
Put the vinegar, and all the other ingredients for the 
dressing, except the cream, in a saucepan, and heat to a 
boil. Pour scalding hot over the cabbage ; return to the 
saucepan, and stir and toss until all is smoking again. 
Take from the fire, stir in the cream, turn into a covered 
dish and set in hot water ten minutes before you send to 
the table. 

HASTY FARINA PUDDING. 
i quart of milk. 
4 tablespoonfuls (heaping) of farina, previously soaked 

in a little cold water for one hour, 
i tablespoonful of butter. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

2 eggs, beaten. 



174 MARCH. 

Scald the milk ; stir in the salt, then the soaked farina, 
and cook steadily (always in a farina-kettle) three quarters 
of an hour. Add the butter ; take a cupful of the boiling 
mixture, and beat into the whipped eggs. Put back into 
the saucepan, stir for two minutes and pour into a deep, 
open dish. Eat with milk, or cream, and sugar. 



Jirat 

Baked Soup. 

Devilled Lobster. Calf s Liver a la Mode. 

Baked Celery. Potatoes au Gratin, with Vermicelli. 



Lemon Pudding. 

BAKED SOUP. 

2 Ibs. of lean beef, cut into dice. 

3 stalks of blanched celery. 
2 turnips. 

Handful of chopped cabbage, 
i onion. 

1 carrot. 

2 roots of salsify, cut small. 
Chopped parsley. 

J cup of rice, previously boiled for fifteen minutes. 

can of tomatoes, cut up. 

Pepper and salt. 

i quart cold water. 

Prepare beef and vegetables early in the day ; mix all 
up well, and put into a strong earthenware jar, with a good 
cover of the same material. Coat this top thickly with a 
stiff paste of flour and water to exclude the air, and set in 
the oven for six hours. Once in a while, grease the paste 
to prevent it from scorching or cracking. It is also well 
to set the jar in a dripping or bake pan of boiling water. 
Serve without straining. 

DEVILLED LOBSTER. 
i can of preserved lobster. 
3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 



FIRST WEEK WEDNESDAY. 

4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

teaspoonful of made mustard. 

A good pinch of cayenne pepper. 

Boiled eggs for garnishing. 

Salt. 

Open the lobster-can and empty it into a bowl an 
hour before using it. Min'ce evenly. Put vinegar, but- 
ter and seasoning into a saucepan, and when it sim- 
mers, add the lobster. Cook slowly, covered, half an 
hour, stirring occasionally. Turn into a deep dish, and 
garnish with slices of egg. Eat hot with buttered Boston 
crackers. 

CALF'S LIVER A LA MODE. 

1 fine, fresh liver. 

J Ib. salt pork, cut into lardoons. 
3 tablespoonfuls good dripping. 

2 sliced onions, small ones. 

1 tablespoonful Harvey's Sauce. 

2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 
i teaspoonful mixed spices. 

i tablespoonful sweet herbs, chopped. 
Pepper. 

Wash the liver,, and soak half an hour in cold, salted 
water. Wipe dry and lard with the fat pork, allowing it 
to project on both sides. Heat dripping, onion, herbs, 
and spice in a frying-pan. Put in the liver and fry both 
sides to a light brown. Turn all into a saucepan, add the 
vinegar, and water enough to cover it ; put on a close lid 
and stew gently one hour and a half. Lay the liver on a 
hot dish, add the sauce to the gravy, strain it, thicken with 
browned flour, boil up ; pour half over the liver, and send 
the rest up in a sauce-boat. 

BAKED CELERY. 

Cut two bunches of celery, the best stalks only, into 
inch-lengths, and stew in boiling water, a little salt, for ten 
minutes. Drain off the water, and add a cup of milk, 
a tablespoonful of butter, rolled thickly in flour, a little 
pepper and salt. Simmer three minutes after heating, 
and pour into a shallow bowl to cool. Butter a bake-dish, 
strew the bottom with fine bread-crumbs. When the 



MARCH. 

celery is almost or quite cold, beat into it two eggs, and 
pour into the dish. Strew bread-crumbs thickly over the 
top, turn a tin plate over all, and bake twenty minutes. 
Remove the cover and brown. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN, WITH VERMICELIJ. 
Mash the potatoes as usual, with butter, milk, and salt. 
Smooth into a hillock upon a pie-plate, and strew with a 
handful of vermicelli broken small, cooked soft in boiling 
water, a little salt, then drained perfectly dry and spread 
out to cool. Brown all in a quick oven, glaze with butter, 
slip to a hot dish, and it is ready. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

6 butter crackeis, soaked in water, and beaten smooth. 

Juice of three lemons and half the grated peel. 

i cup of molasses. 

A pinch of salt. 

i tablespoonful of melted butter. 

Pie-paste for shells. 

Chop the pulp of the lemons, leaving out the thick 
white peel, very fine; stir into the crushed crackers, with 
the butter and salt. Beat the molasses into this, gradu- 
ally, with the grated peel. Line two pie-dishes with good 
paste, fill with the mixture and bake, without upper crusts. 
Eat warm, or cold. They are best fresh. 



first tDetk. 

Beef Soup with Barley. 

Stuffed Loin of Veal. 

Baked Tomatoes. Kidney Beans with Sauce. 

Plain Boiled Pudding. 
Hard Sauce. 

BEEF SOUP WITH BARLEY. 
3 Ibs. of beef from the shin. 
2 Ibs. of bones. 



FIRST WEEK- THURSDAY. 1/7 

1 onion stuck with cloves. 

2 stalks of celery. 

The half can of tomatoes left from yesterday's soup. 

2 turnips. 

Nearly a cup of pearl barley. 

4 quarts of water. 

Pepper and salt. 

Cut up the meat and crack the bones. Cut up celery, 
turnips, and tomatoes. Put all these, with the onion, into 
the soup-pot, with the gallon of cold water, and boil gently 
three hours. The liquor should be reduced one-third. 
Wash the barley and boil fifteen minutes in a very little 
water. Strain the soup, pressing hard. Season ; let it 
boil up once, and skim before adding the barley and the 
water in which it has boiled. Simmer half an hour, and 
serve. 

STUFFED LOIN OF VEAL. 

Prepare a dressing of bread-crumbs, a little chopped 
corned ham, parsley, pepper and salt, moistened with 
milk. Have the bones taken out of the meat, and fill the 
holes thus left with the stuffing. Secure the meat into a 
good shape with skewers, and cover the top and sides with 
thick foolscap paper, binding it with strings. Grease 
paper and strings, put the veal into your dripping-pan 
with a cup of hot water, and bake, basting the paper now 
and then with dripping, to prevent scorching. At the 
end of an hour, take out the meat and remove the paper. 
Pour off the gravy, carefully setting it by; return the 
meat to the oven with a cupful of milk in the pan instead 
of the gravy. Baste with butter, lavishly, once, afterwards, 
and often with the milk as it heats. Roast, not too fast, 
nearly an hour more, or until your meat is tender. Should 
the milk evaporate too rapidly, add a little hot water. 
Indeed, this is a wise precaution against scorching. Take 
up the veal, thicken the gravy left in the oven, with a 
tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour, salt, and pepper, 
heat carefully that the milk may not "catch," and pour 
some over the meat, serving the rest in a boat. Veal 
cooked in this way is very nice, but requires much atten 
lion at the last. 



I7B MARCH. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Strew the bottom of a pie-dish with fine crumbs, having 
greased it first. Drain off much of the liquor from a can 
of tomatoes, add it to the soup, pour the tomatoes upon 
the crumbs, season with pepper, salt, and butter ; strew 
more crumbs thickly over the top. Bake, covered, twenty 
minutes ; then brown. 

KIDNEY BEANS WITH SAUCE. 

Soak the beans overnight. The next day boil them 
until soft in salted water. Drain this off. Strain the first 
gravy taken from the roast veal before the milk is sub- 
stituted into a saucepan ; add a tablespoonful of butter, 
and half a small onion, minced. Boil five minutes, strain 
through a soup-sieve, pressing the onion hard ; season 
with pepper, salt, and a little chopped parsley ; pour over 
the beans, simmer fifteen minutes, closely covered, drain 
off half of the liquor, and serve in a covered dish. 

PLAIN BOILED PUDDING. 

3 cups full ones of good flour. 

2 cups of " loppered" milk or buttermilk ; sour cream 
is best of all. 

i full teaspoonful of soda dissolved in hot water. 

A little salt. 

J cup finely-powdered suet. 

Stir the milk and soda gradually into the flour, working 
it smooth. Put suet and salt in, and beat all thoroughly. 
Boil in a buttered mould an hour and a half. 

HARD SAUCE. 

1 cup of sugar. 

2 tablespoon fuls of butter. 
J glass of wine. 

Juice of a lemon and half of the grated peel. 
Warm the butter, and rub into the sugar, working into 
a light cream. Add lemon and wine. Mould as you like, 
and set aside to cool. 



FIRST WEEK FRIDAY. 179 



Jir0t tihek. Jrfoag. 

Oyster Soup. 

Brown Fricassee of Chicken. Ladies' Cabbage. 

Potatoes au naturel. Grape Jelly. 

Sliced Apple Pie. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Drain the liquor from the oysters through a colander. 
Put the liquor over the fire with half as much water, salt, 
pepper, and a large tablespoonful of butter for each quart 
of soup. Let it boil up well, and put in the oysters. 
Heat slowly, and as soon as they "ruffle," which should 
be about five minutes after they reach the boil, strain off 
the soup. Have in another vessel as much boiling milk as 
there was oyster liquor. Pour the oysters into a hot 
tureen, put a large spoonful of butter upon them ; when 
it melts entirely, turn in the milk. Stir in well, add the 
hot soup, cover, and serve with sliced lemon and crackers. 

BROWN FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN. 

Joint the chicken neatly, and lay in salted cold water 
half an hour. Cut a quarter of a pound of salt pork into 
strips, and fry in good dripping. Strain it out, skin the 
chicken as far as possible, and fry in the same fat, with a 
sliced onion. Chop the pork fine and put into a sauce- 
pan ; next, the onion ; at last, the fowl. Sprinkle a tea- 
spoonful of mixed allspice and cloves over all, pour on 
cold water to cover them well, put on a tight lid, and 
stew gently for an hour or more, until the meat is tender. 
Arrange the fowl upon a hot dish ; strain the gravy ; season 
to taste with pepper, salt, and parsley ; thicken with 
browned flour ; boil up once ; pour over the chicken ; 
cover, and let all stand for five minutes before serving. 

LADIES' CABBAGE. 

Boil a firm cabbage in two waters. Drain, then set 
aside to get cold. Chop fine ; add two beaten eggs, a 
tablespoonful of butter, pepper, salt, and three table 



ISO MARCH. 

spoonfuls of milk. Stir all well, and bake brown in a 
buttered pudding-dish. Eat very hot. 

POTATOES AU NATUREL. 

Choose those of uniform size ; put on in their skins, in 
boiling water. When about half done, check the boil sud- 
denly by a cupful of cold water. This is said to make old 
potatoes mealy. Boil again until a fork will pierce them. 
Drain off the water ; sprinkle with salt to make the skins 
crack, and dry out in the uncovered pot, on the range, for 
a few minutes before peeling. 

SLICED APPLE PIE. 
i Ib. of prepared flour. 
f Ib. of butter. 

Ice-water to make stiff dough. 

Chop half of the butter into the flour. Work up with 
ice-water. Roll out thin ; baste all over with butter, and 
sprinkle lightly with flour ; fold closely into a long roll ; 
flatten, and re-roll as thin as at first ; then baste again. 
Repeat this three times. Set the last roll in a cold place 
for at least an hour. Roll out, and line two buttered 
pie-plates, reserving enough for upper crusts. 

Pare, core and slice juicy pippins ; put a layer within 
the crust ; sprinkle sugar liberally over it, strew half a 
dozen whole cloves upon this ; then more apples, etc., 
until the dish is full. Cover with crust and bake. 
Eat barely warm, with sugar and cream. 



Jtr0t iDeek. Saturtrqj. 

A Plain Soup. 

Breaded Mutton Chops. Milanaise Potatoes. 

Currant Jally. Green Peas. 

Cocoanut Sponge Pudding. 

A PLAIN SOUP. 
5 Ibs. shin of beef. 
2 stalks of celery. 



FIRST WEEK SATURDAY. l8l 

2 carrots. 

2 onions. 

2 turnips. 

5 quarts of water. 

2 tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup. 

\ cup coarse corn-meal. 

Pepper and salt. 

i cup of boiling milk. 

Slice the meat and crack the bones. Cut the vegeta- 
bles into strips and fry the onions in good dripping. 
Then put all, with meat and bones, into a soup-pot with 
the water. Cover and cook gently five hours. Strain 
the liquor from the shreds of meat and rub the vegeta- 
bles through the colander. Season and set aside half the 
stock for to-morrow. Put that meant for to-day into a 
soup-kettle ; season and boil up for a minute, that you 
may skim it ; then add the corn-meal, previously scalded 
with a cup of boiling milk. Stir in well, and simmer half an 
hour before adding the catsup and pouring into the tureen. 

BREADED MUTTON CHOPS. 

Trim the chops from fat and skin, leaving a bit of bone 
clean at the end of each. Beat up a raw egg ; dip the 
chops in this having peppered and salted them ; roll in 
cracker- dust, and fry brown in good dripping or sweet 
lard. Drain, and arrange in rows upon a hot dish, the 
large end of each overlapping the small end of the next. 
Garnish with parsley. 

MILANAISE POTATOES. 

12 boiled potatoes. 

cupful of gravy left from yesterday's fricassee. 

Juice of half a lemon. 

Yolks of 2 raw eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls o'f dry grated cheese. 

\ cup stale bread-crumbs. 

i tablespoonful of butter. 

Pepper and salt. 

Heat and strain your gravy. Put into a saucepan with 
the seasoning, butter, and lemon, bring to a boil, and 
stir it into the beaten egg. Slice the potatoes ; lay a 



182 MARCH. 

row within the outer round of a neat pie-plate. (I 
hope you have one with a silver stand for the table.) 
Pour a few teaspoonfuls of sauce upon these ; lay an- 
other and smaller row inside of the first ; more sauce, and 
so on, until you have a low cone of sliced potato ; pour 
sauce over all, coat with the Dread-crumbs and cheese, 
mixed together ; pepper and salt, and bake twenty min- 
utes in a quick oven. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Open a can of green peas ; turn off the liquor and 
cover with boiling water, a little salt. Boil fast until 
tender ; drain well ; stir in a tablespoonful of butter ; 
pepper and salt, and serve in a deep dish. 

COCOANUT SPONGE PUDDING. 

2 cups of stale sponge-cake crumbs. 

2 cups of milk. 

i cup of grated cocoanut. 

Yolks of two eggs and whites of four. 

i cup of white sugar. 

i tablespoonful rose-water. 

A little nutmeg. 

Scald the milk and beat into this the cake-crumbs. 
When nearly cold add the eggs, sugar, rose-water, and 
lastly the cocoanut. Bake three-quarters of an hour in 
a buttered pudding-dish. Should it brown too fast, cover 
with white paper. Eat cold, with white sugar sifted over it. 



Seconir ill celt. 



Tapioca Soup. 

Roast Beef and Potato Balls. Sliced Sweet Potatoes. 

Gherkin Pickle. Cauliflower au Gratin. 

Southern Rice Pudding, meringued. 

TAPIOCA SOUP. 

Take the fat from the stock reserved for to-day. Bring 
the soup to a boil and stir in half a teacupful of " grained " 



SECOND WEEK SUNDAY. 183 

tapioca, which has been soaked three hours in a little cold 
water. Add also seasoning, if needed ; simmer half an 
hour and pour out. Send around grated cheese with it. 

ROAST BEEF AND POTATO BALLS. 

When your beef is about three-quarters done, pout 
nearly all of the gravy from the dripping-pan. Have 
ready some mashed potato worked smooth with a beaten 
egg, pepper and salt, then made into balls and rolled in 
flour. Place them in the pan around the meat and baste 
until well browned. Serve in. the same dish with the 
beef. 

SLICED SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil in their skins until a fork will go easily into them. 
Pare and slice with a sharp knife lengthwise ; fry lightly 
and quickly in good dripping, or butter ; drain off the 
grease, and serve hot. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. 

Wash the cauliflower, cut off green leaves and stalks, 
and divide into neat bunches. Boil in hot water, salted, 
until tender. Drain well; dip each piece in melted 
butter, and strew thickly with fine, dry crumbs, mixed 
with pepper and salt. Arrange flower end uppermost, in 
a pudding-dish, and brown the crumbs upon the upper 
grating of an oven. Serve in a vegetable dish, and pass 
a boat of drawn butter with them. 

SOUTHERN RICE PUDDING MISRINGUED. 
i qt. of fresh milk. 

1 cup of raw rice, 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
i cup of sugar. 

4 eggs beaten light. 

i teaspoonful grated lemon-peel. 

A pinch of cinnamon, and the same of mace. 
Soak the rice two hours in the milk. Simmer in a 
farina-kettle until tender. Rub butter and sugar to a 
cream. Beat up the eggs, and whip the mixture into 
them while the rice is cooling. Stir all together ; flavor, 
and bake three-quarters of an hour in a buttered dish 



lS4 MARCH. 

If baked too long, the custard will break. So soon as it 
is well set in the middle of the dish, draw to the oven- 
door, and spread with a meringue made of the whites of 
three eggs whisked stiff with one tablespoonful of pow 
dered sugar and juice of half a lemon. Close the oven 
door, and brown delicately. Eat cold. Make it on 
Saturday. 



Seconir 



Hasty Soup. 

Larded Beef. Stewed Parsnips. 

Browned Potatoes. Made Mustard. 

"Brown Betty." 
Tea and Albert Biscuit. 

HASTY SOUP. 

The trimmings of your roast beef, and any other cold 
'meat you may have about two and a half pounds in all, 
chopped very fine. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. * 

2 tablespoonfuls of browned flour. 

2 quarts of water. 

2 handfuls of fried bread. 

Pepper and salt. 

i tablespoonful of walnut catsup. 

Put meat, butter, salt and pepper into a saucepan ; 
add two quarts of cold water, and bring slowly to i boil. 
Cook half an hour after the boil fairly begins. Strain 
hard through a thin cloth ; thicken with browned flour ; 
add the catsup ; boil up once, and pour over the fried 
bread in the tureen. 

LARDED BEP;F. 

Trim yesterday's roast on top, bottom, and sides, sav- 
ing all the fragments for your soup. Then make inci- 
sions quite through the meat, and thrust in numerous lar- 
doons of fat salt pork, projecting above and below. Rub 



SECOND WEEK MONDAY. 185 

the meat all over with vinegar, and then with melted 
butter, rubbing both in well. Put in a dripping-pan. 
Take the fat from the top of yesterday's gravy ; thin it 
with a little hot water ; strain this into the dripping-pan, 
and" baste the meat plentifully with it, keeping another 
pan inverted over it between times. If your oven be 
moderately good, the beef should be ready for table in 
forty-five minutes. Pour a few spoonfuls of gravy over it 
when dished. Put the rest into a sauce-boat. 

STEWED PARSNIPS. 

Scrape, slice lengthwise, and lay in cold water half 
an hour. Cook tender in boiling water, a little salt. 
Drain off half the water, and stir in a tablespoonful of 
butter rolled thickly in flour. Pepper and salt to your 
taste, and stew gently five minutes before pouring into a 
deep, covered dish. 

BROWNED POTATOES. 

Mash soft with butter, milk, and salt. Heap as irregu- 
larly as possible upon z pie-dish, and set in a quick oven. 
Mem. : The dish should be well greased. As the potato 
browns, glaze it with butter. Slip carefully to a hot dish. 

" BROWN BETTY." 

1 cup bread-crumbs. 

2 cups chopped tart apples. 
J cup of sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Put a layer of chopped apple in a buttered pudding- 
dish ; strew with sugar, butter, and cinnamon. Covet 
with bread-crumbs ; then more apple. When your dish 
is full, cover with crumbs. Invert a tin plate over it, and 
" steam " forty-five minutes in a good oven. Then, un- 
cover and brown. Eat warm, with sugar and butter, or 
cream. 

TEA AND ALBERT BISCUIT. 

Pass these after the pudding. Tea-drinking is restful 
as well as refreshing on a busy day. Weary housekeepers 
can have no more innocent nervine. 



1 86 MARCH. 

Sttonft tUesk. Sfoesfcaj). 

White Soup. 
Boiled Shoulder of Mutton, with Oysters. 

Creamed Potatoes. 
Baked Beans. Sweet Pickles. 

Cottage Puffs. 

WHITE SOUP. 

Knuckle of veal weight 5 or 6 pounds. 
J Ib. lean ham raw or cooked. 
2 onions. 
Bunch of sweet herbs. 

4 blades of mace. 
2 cups of milk. 

2 eggs. 

J- cup raw rice. 

5 qts. of cold water. 

Ib. almonds, blanched and pounded. 
Crack the veal-bones, and cut off the meat in small 
pieces. Put into the soup-pot with the chopped ham ; 
the onion sliced, the herbs and spice. Pour on the 
water, and boil very slowly five hours. The water should 
be reduced to three quarts. Strain off the liquor. Sea- 
son thFee pints, and pour back upon the bones, etc. 
Cover tightly in a stone crock, and put away for to-mor- 
row's stock. To the remainder add the rice and the 
pint of water in which it has been soaking for two hours. 
Season, and cook gently, taking care it does not burn, 
while you blanch the almonds by scalding off their skins, 
and pound them in a Wedgewood mortar. When the 
rice is soft, put in these, and cook slowly ten minutes. 
Scald the milk, pour it upon the beaten eggs by degrees, 
add to the soup ; stir one minute, but not to the boil, and 
pour into the tureen. 

BOILED SHOULDER OF MUTTON WITH OYSTERS. 
Take the main bones out of a shoulder of mutton ; fill 
the cavity with oysters, and bind the meat firmly over the 



SECOND WEEK TUESDAY. 1 8? 

incision. Sew the shoulder into a neat shape in a piece 
of stout tarlatan ; put on in boiling water, slightly salted, 
allowing eighteen minutes to each pound in cooking. 
When done, unbind carefully upon the dish in which you 
are to serve it. Pour over it a sauce made of equaJ 
parts of oyster liquor and the broth from the boiling meat, 
seasoned, then thickened with a generous lump of butter, 
cut into bits, and rolled in flour, and some chopped pars- 
ley. Boil up once well, and put half upon the meat, 
the rest in a sauce-boat. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

Mash in the usual way, whipping very light with a fork, 
adding a cupful of rich milk and two tablespoonfuls of 
softened butter, beating in gradually. Return to the 
saucepan ; stir constantly for three minutes ; turn into a 
bowl and whip with an egg-beater, hard, one minute. 
Pile in a hot ^leep dish, and set in the open oven until 
you are ready to send it to table. . . 

BAKED BEANS. 

Soak overnight. Next day, put on in cold water 
salted and cook soft. Drain dry, .turn into a greased 
bake-dish, stir in a great spoonful of butter, and when 
this has melted, enough milk to fill the dish one quarter 
full. Season with pepper and salt ; cover and bake forty 
minutes. Remove the top, and brown. 

COTTAGE PUFFS. 

2 cups of rich milk half cream if you can get it. 
4 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 
i good tablespoonful of butter, chopped into the flour. 
A pinch of salt. 

Enough prepared flour for thick batter. Try two cups, 
and add, by degrees, as you need more. 

Mix the beaten yolks with the milk ; then the salt and 
whites ; at last, the flour. Bake in greased iron pans, 
such as are used for " gems " and corn-bread. The oven 
should be quick. Turn out and eat with sweet sauce. 



1 88 MARCH. 



Beconir fthek. 

Giblet Soup. 

Smothered Chickens. Macaroni with Tomato Sauce. 
Peach Pickles. Potato Chips. 

Apple Cake. 
Coffee. 

GIBLET SOUP. 

Clean and cut the giblets of your fowls into three pieces 
each. Stew tender in a pint of water. Take the cake 
of fat from the broth set by yesterday. Put a half cupful 
aside for your macaroni sauce. Warm the rest and strain 
out the bones, etc. Return to the fire, boil up and skim, 
chop the giblets fine and put them in with the water in 
which they were boiled. Simmer a quarter of an hour ; 
stir in half a cupful of fine, dry bread-crumbs. Season, 
if necessary ; boil ten minutes longer, stirring often, and 
pour out. 

SMOTHERED CHICKENS. 

Prepare the chickens as for broiling, splitting each 
down the back. Lay flat in a dripping-pan, pour a cup- 
ful of boiling water upon them ; set in the oven and in- 
vert another pan over them, so as to cover them tightly. 
Roast half an hour, lift the cover and baste freely with 
butter. In ten minutes more, baste with gravy from the 
dripping-pan. In five more, with melted butter abun- 
dantly going all over the fowls. Keeping the chickens 
covered except while basting them, increase the heat, 
until you ascertain, by testing with a fork, that they are 
done. They should be coffee-colored all over, rather 
than brown. Dish, salt and pepper them ; cover while 
you thicken the gravy with browned flour, adding a little 
hot water, pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. Boil up ; 
put a few spoonfuls over the chickens the rest in a 
gravy tureen. 

They are extremely nice, if faithfully basted. 



SECOND WEEK WEDNESDAY. 1 89 

MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 
Break half a pound of macaroni into inch lengths. 
Cover with salted boiling water, and cook twenty minutes, 
or until tender. Have ready a sauce prepared as follows : 
open a can of tomatoes ; take out half the contents and 
cut up very small. Add, with pepper and salt, and a 
little minced onion, to the half cup of broth reserved for 
this purpose, and stew together twenty minutes. Put the 
macaroni into a deep dish, stir well into it a large table- 
spoonful of butter. Add to the sauce two great spoon- 
fuls grated cheese ; boil once and strain over the maca- 
roni, loosening the latter with a fork that the sauce may 
penetrate. Serve hot. 

POTATO CHIPS. 

Peel and slice, round, some fine potatoes. Lay in 
cold water for one hour. Dry by laying them upon a dry 
towel and pressing with another.. Fry in salted lard, 
quickly, to a delicate brown. Take -out as soon as they 
are done ; shake briskly in a hot colander to free them 
from fat, and send to table in a deep dish uncovered 
lined with a napkin. 

APPLE CAKE. 

2 cups of powdered sugar. 

3 even cups of prepared flour. 

cup of corn-starch, wet up with a little milk. 

% cup of butter, rubbed to a cream with the sugar. 

cup of sweet milk. 

The whites of 6 eggs whipped stiff. 

Add the milk to the creamed butter and sugar ; then 
the corn-starch, lastly the flour and whites alternately. 
Bake in greased jelly cake tins. 

FILLING. 

3 tart pippins, grated, 
i beaten egg. 
i cup of sugar. 

Juice and grated peel of one lemon. 
Beat sugar, egg, and lemon together. Grate the apples 



MARCH. 

into this mixture. Put into a farina-kettle and stir until 
it boils. Cool before putting between the cakes. 

COFFEE 
May to-day be passed with the cake. 



Seconb tthek. 

Chicken Broth. 

Rolled Beefsteak. Salsify Fritters. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. Cucumber Pickles. 

Fig Custard Pudding. 



CHICKEN BROTH. 

Cut an old fowl into quarters. Lay in salt and water 
an hour ; put on in a soup-kettle with an onion, and four 
quarts of water. Bring very slowly to a gentle boil, and 
keep this up until the liquid has diminished one-third, and 
the meat shrinks from the bones. Take out the chicken, 
salt it, and set aside with a cupful of the broth, in a bowl 
(covered), until to-morrow. Season the rest of the broth 
and put back over the lire. Boil up and skim, and add 
nearly a teacupful of rice, previously soaked for two 
hours in a cup of water. Cook slowly until the rice is 
tender. Stir a cup of hot milk into two beaten eggs, and 
then into the soup. Let all come to the boil barely 
when you have added a handful of. finely-minced parsley, 
pour out into the tureen. 

ROLLED BEEFSTEAK. 

Beat a large sirloin steak flat with the broad side of a 
hatchet. Fry a sliced onion in a little butter. Take it 
out with a skimmer, and put the meat into the pan. Fry 
quickly on both sides, soaking up all the butter and 
leaving a brown glaze upon the steak. Spread it upon a 
dish. Chop the onion, mix with bread-crumbs, minced 
herbs and a few chopped mushrooms, and lay this force- 



SECOND WEEK THURSDAY. IQ1 

meat upon the steak. Roll the meat up tightly upon the 
dressing. Fasten with soft packthread and skewers. 
Put into a saucepan with a cupful of cold water. Set 
where it will heat very slowly, keeping on a close lid. 
Simmer thus two hours, turning now and then. Transfer 
the meat to a hot dish. Strain the gravy, add a little hot 
water, if needed ; thicken with browned flour ; stir in 
some minced mushrooms, a tablespoonful of catsup and 
another of butter. Boil about three minutes, pour over 
the steak, when you have removed the threads. The 
skewers are to be withdrawn by the carver. 

SALSIFY FRITTERS. 

Scrape, wash, and grate the roots into a mixture made 
of a beaten egg, one cap of milk, an'd enough flour for a 
vory thin batter. Thicken with the grated salsify ; salt 
and pepper, and drop, in large spoonfuls, into boiling lard 
or dripping. Drain in a hot colander. Eat while fresh. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Drain off the liquor from a can of tomatoes ; salt it, 
and put aside for another day's soup. Strew the bottom 
of a bake-dish with fine crumbs ; cover with tomatoes, 
sliced thin. Scatter over these a little minced onion and 
some bits of butter, with pepper, salt, and sugar. Pro- 
ceed thus until the tomatoes are used up. Cover thickly 
with crumbs, fit a plate or tin lid over the scallop^ and 
bake half an hour. Brown quickly upon the upper grat- 
ing of the oven. 

FIG CUSTARD PUDDING. 

i Ib. best Naples figs. 

i quart of milk. 

Yolks of five eggs and whites of two. 

package of gelatine soaked in half cup of water. 

i cup sweet fruit jelly, slightly warmed. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Flavor to taste. 

Soak the figs in warm water until quite soft. Split them ; 
dip each piece in jelly, and line a buttered mould with 
them. Heat the milk, stir into the beaten eggs and sugar, 



192 MARCH. 

return to the farina-kettle, and cook until it thickens well. 
Set by to cool. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff 
froth. Melt the soaked gelatine by adding two table- 
spoonfuls of boiling water, and. setting it within a vessel 
of hot water. Stir until melted, and let it cool. When 
it begins to congeal, whip with the Dover egg-beater, 
gradually, into the whisked whites, until all is white and 
thick. Beat into the cold custard rapidly and thoroughly, 
and fill the fig-lined mould. Set on ice, or in a cold 
place, until firm. Dip the mould in hot water to loosen 
the pudding when you are ready for it. It is delicious. 



Seconir iDeek. Jrtirag. 

Split Pea Soup, without Meat. 

Baked Halibut. Chicken and Ham Pudding. 

Mashed Potatoes. Mixed Pickles. 

Cottage Pudding. 
Wine Sauce. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP, WITHOUT MEAT. 

1 pint of split peas. 

2 onions. 

2 stalks of celery. 
Bunch of sweet, herbs, 
i carrot. 

i turnip. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter, cut into bits and rolled in 

flour. 

Tomato juice, saved from yesterday. 

Pepper, salt, and fried bread. 

3 quarts of water. 

Soak the peas all night. In the morning, put them on, 
with the vegetables and herbs cut small, and the tomato 
juice ; cover with the water, and cook slowly three hours, 
or until you can rub all to a pulp through a colander. 
Season ; simmer fifteen minutes, stir in the butter, cook 



SECOND WEEK FRIDAY. 193 

five minutes longer, and pour upon the fried bread in the 
tureen. 

BAKED HALIBUT. 

Lay a cut of halibut, weighing five pounds, in salt and 
water for two hours. Wipe dry, and score on top. Bake 
an hour, basting often with butter and water melted to- 
gether. Test with a fork to see if it be done, and trans- 
fer to a hot dish. Strain the gravy from* the dripping-pan 
to a saucepan. Stir in a tablespoonful of walnut catsup, 
the juice of a lemon, and a tablespoonful of butter, cut 
up in three tablespoonfuls of browned flour. Boil, and 
pour into a sauce-boat. 

CHICKEN AND HAM PUDDING. 

The meat from yesterday's chickens, minced fine. 

Half as much cooked ham, also minced. 

J Ib. pipe macaroni, broken into inch lengths. 

2 beaten eggs. 

i tablespoonful of butter. 

i cup of gravy. 

Pepper and salt. 

Add a little hot water to the chicken broth reserved 
yesterday ; strain, heat, and cook the macaroni tender in 
it. Drain the latter ; mix well with the ham and chicken, 
beaten eggs, butter, and seasoning. Pour into a greased 
pudding-mould with a tight top, and boil for two hours. 
Dip the mould into cold water for half a minute ; invert 
a hot dish, and strike gently upon top and upon sides 
to turn it out. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Pare and boil until a fork will pierce the largest. Drain 
oft the water, leaving the potatoes in the pot. Set back 
on the range, strew with salt, and dry for three minutes. 
Whip up with a stout, four-tined fork until they are a mass 
of meal. Add, then, a great spoonful of butter, a cup of 
milk, salt, if necessary, whipping all in lightly. Form into 
a smoothed mound in a vegetable-dish. Pass with the fish. 

MIXED PICKLES 

Should go around with both fish and meat, to-day. 




194 MARCH. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 
I cup of sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

2 eggs. 

1 cup of sweet milk. 

3 cups of prepared flour. 
.1 teaspoonful of butter. 

Cream the butter and sugar. Beat in the yolks, then 
the milk, salt, and the beaten whites alternately with the 
flour. Bake in a buttered mould until a straw will come 
out clean from the middle ; turn out upon a plate. Eat 
hot with wine sauce. 

WINE SAUCE. 
J cup of butter. 
2^ cups of powdered sugar. 

2 glasses of pale sherry, 
j- cup of boiling water. 

i teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

Cream butter and sugar, whipping up, by degrees, with 
the hot water. Beat five minutes before adding, gradu- 
ally, the wine and sugar. Heat in a tin vessel set in boil- 
ing water, stirring often, but not to a boil. Leave in warm 
water until you are ready for it. Stir up from the bottom 
as you serve. 



Seconb tDeek. Saturbag. 

Bone Soup. 

Pigeon Pie. Roast Sweet Potatoes. 

Grape Jelly. Baked Hominy. 

Willie's Favorite Pudding, 



BONE SOUP. 
6 or seven Ibs. of uncooked bones, beef, mutton, veal, 

and salt pork, bought in market for a trifle, and 

pounded to pieces. 
2 minced carrots. 



SECOND WEEK SATURDAY. 195 

2 turnips. 

2 onions. 

2 stalks of celery. 

Bunch of sweet herbs. 

Salt and pepper. 

cup tapioca, soaked two hours in one cup of cold water. 

5 quarts of water. 

Put on the bones and vegetables early in the day. Pur- 
thise soup meat a day beforehand, whenever you can. 
Cover with half the water. When the scum arises after 
the boil is reached, remove it, and pour in another quart 
of cold water. This will bring up more scum. Skim, 
after boiling again, and pour in the rest of the water. 
When no more scum comes up, cover the pot, and cook 
gently four hours, if you can give it so much time. Divide 
the liquor into two parts. Set away half in a stone jar, 
with the bones in the bottom, fit on the lid, having salted 
the liquor. This is Sunday's " stock." Strain the rest 
through.a fine soup-sieve, without pressing the. residuum in 
the bottom, season it, and having skimmed it carefully after 
the boil, stir in the soaked tapioca. Simmer twenty min- 
utes, and it is ready. 

PIGEON PIE. 

Clean, wash, and cut the pigeons into quarters. Wipe- 
dry and fry lightly in butter or dripping. Sprinkle well 
with salt and pepper. Have ready a greased pudding-dish 
and a good paste, made accordfng to the receipt given on 
Friday of last week. Lay some pieces of pigeon in the 
bottom of the dish, and cover with a mixture of chopped 
eggs, and the giblets, boiled tender in a little water, then 
minced. More pigeons, and another layer of the force- 
meat. Stir two tablespoonfuls of butter, rolled in fjour, 
into the hot water in which the "giblets were boiled ; season, 
and pour enough into the pie to half cover the birds. 
Cover with a thick crust with a slit in the middle, and bake 
an hour if the pie be of fair size. Glaze with beaten egg, 
just before you take it from the oven. 

ROAST SWEET POTATOES. 

Parboil them, and lay in a moderate oven until soft to 
the touch. Wipe, and serve with the skins on. 



MARCH. 

BAKED HOMINY. 

1 cupful cold boiled hominy (the small grained). 

2 cups of milk. 

1 large spoonful melted butter. 

2 teaspoonfuls of sugar. 

3 eggs- 

A little salt. 

Rub the butter into the hominy until there are no lumps 
left. Work up very thoroughly. Scald the milk ; pour 
upon the beaten yolks and sugar, add the salt, and beat, 
by degrees, into the hominy. At the last, whip in the 
frothed whites, and pour into a buttered bake-dish. Put 
at once into the oven and bake until lightly browned. 

WILLIE'S FAVORITE PUDDING. 

1 loaf stale baker's bread. 
J- cup of powdered suet. 

Ib. of citron, chopped fine. 

j Ib. sweet almonds, blanched and cut in thin strips. 

5 pippins, also chopped. 

2 cups of milk. 

i cup of powdered sugar. 

A little salt, stirred into the milk. 

Cut the bread into thick slices, and pare off the crust. 
Cover the bottom of a greased mould (with plain sides) 
with these, fitted in nicely. Soak with milk, spread with 
the suet and fruit mixed together. Sprinkle this with sugar, 
and strew almond shavings over it. Fit on another stratum 
of bread, soaking it likewise with milk, more of the suet and 
fruit mixture, sugar and almonds, and so on to the top- 
most layer which must be bread, and very moist with milk. 
Cover the mould, set in a dripping-pan, which you must 
keep full of boiling water, and cook in the oven one hour 
and a half. Pass a knife carefully between the pudding 
and the sides of the mould ; turn it out ; sift white sugar 
thickly over it and eat with sweet sauce. You may have 
enough left from yesterday. 



THIRD WEEK SUNDAY. . 197 



(Ztyirlr tDeek. Sunbag. 

Macaroni Soup. 

Roast Mutton. Potato Rissoles. 

Lettuce Salad. Spinach a la Creme. 

Transparent Puddings. 
Coffee. 



MACARONI SOUP. 

J Ib. macaroni, broken into short pieces. 

The stock set aside yesterday. 

A heaping tablespoonful of corn-starch, wet up with 
cold water. 

i tablespoonful of butter. 

i onion sliced. 

A little salt. 

Boil the onion five minutes in a pint of salted water. 
Strain it out, and when the water again boils, put in the 
macaroni with the butter. Boil very gently until quite 
tender. Drain off the water, and spread the macaroni out 
to cool somewhat. Meanwhile, take the fat from the top 
of your cold soup ; thin the latter with a cup of boiling 
water, and strain into the soup pot. Heat to aboil, skim, 
season, stir in the corn-starch, and when this has thickened 
it, put in the macaroni. Simmer ten minutes, and it can 
be put into the tureen. 

ROAST MUTTON. 

The breast, fore leg, and saddle are best for this purpose. 
A nice way of cooking the breast is to sew it up in stout 
tarlatan and boil it eight minutes for each pound. Then 
take it out (saving the liquor), wipe as clean as possible, 
and put it into a dripping-pan ; score the skin with a sharp 
knife, rub in pepper and salt ; wash with beaten egg, strew 
thickly with bread-crumbs, and' bake half an hour in a 
good oven. Baste twice with melted butter. Make a 
gravy of a cupful of the broth, thickened with a table- 
spoonful of butter, rolled in flour. When it has boiled, 



198 MARCH. 

stir into it a little chopped parsley; a teaspoonful of 
minced onion, and three times as much chopped pickled 
cucumber, with the pounded yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. 
Stew three minutes ; pour part of it over the mutton ; the 
rest into a gravy-boat. 

N. B. Test your mutton with a skewer before taking it 
from the oven. If not done, leave it in a while longer. 

POTATO RISSOLES. 

Work into cold mashed potato, a beaten egg, a little but- 
ter, pepper and salt. Make into egg-shaped balls ; roll 
in beaten egg, then in pound'ed cracker, and fry in hot 
lard, or dripping, to a light brown. Drain well in a col- 
ander, and serve in a hot napkin-lined dish. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

One-third as much oil as you have vinegar ; pepper and 
salt at discretion. Cut up the young lettuces with a 
sharp knife ; pile in a salad-bowl ; sprinkle with pow- 
dered sugar, and pour the rest of the ingredients mixed 
together over the salad. Toss up with a silver fork, to 
mix all well. 

SPINACH A LA REINE. 

Boil the spinach in salted water twenty minutes. Drain 
very thoroughly. Chop fine ; return to the saucepan 
with a teaspoonful of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
three tablespoonfuls of cream, a little nutmeg, pepper and 
salt. Stir constantly until almost dry. Have ready an 
egg-cup dipped in boiling water. Fill it with spinach, 
press hard and turn out upon a hot dish. Do this until 
all is moulded. Put a slice of egg upon the top of each. 

TRANSPARENT PUDDINGS. 
Ib. butter, 
i Ib. of sugar. 

6 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 
Juice of i lemon and grated rind of two. 
J nutmeg. 
\ glass of brandy. 

Cream butter and sugar, beat In all the yolks and the 
whites of three eggs, the lemon, spice and brandy Bake 



THIRD WEEK MONDAY. 199 

in open shells of good paste. (Add another " baste " of 
butter to the crust made for your pigeon pie ; roll out and 
line pate-pans with it.) When nearly done, spread each 
with a meringue made of the reserved whites, whipped 
up with a little powdered sugar. Color very lightly. 
As they are to be eaten cold make them on Saturday. 

COFFEE, 

Hot and strong, should be handed at the close of dinner 
particularly if you attend afternoon service 1 



SLIjtri tUeek. ittonirag. 

Savory Porridge. 

Minced Mutton and Eggs. Potatoes au Maitre d'HdteL 
String-Beans, Saute. Sweet Pickles. 

Jaune Mange. 

SAVORY PORRIDGE. 

Cut the meat from yesterday's roast, and take the least 
desirable portions, with any remains of other meat you 
may have veal, pork, or poultry. Chop extremely fine ; 
and rub them through a coarse sieve or colander. Skim 
the fat from the liquor in which your, mutton was boiled ; 
add a chopped onion, a bunch of sweet herbs and a stalk 
of celery, chopped. Boil down to three pints ; strain, 
season, and when it boils up again, skim and stir in ycur 
chopped meat, with half a cupful of dry bread-crumbs. 
Cook, covered, twenty minutes ; put in a tablespoonful 
of butter, rolled in flour, and a little minced parsley. 
Stew five minutes before serving. 

MINCED MUTTON AND EGGS. 

Mince the cold mutton. Have ready warmed a cupful 
of gravy, left from yesterday, or made from the bones of 
the roast. Season the meat well and stir into this, but 



2OO MARCH. 

do not cook it as yet. Strew the bottom of a buttered 
bake-dish thickly with dry crumbs ; pour the mince upon 
it; cover with crumbs, and set in the oven, covered, 
until bubbling hot. Then break enough eggs over the 
top to cover the mince well ; stick bits of butter here and 
there, pepper and salt, and bake quickly until well "set." 
Serve in the bake-dish. 

POTATOES AU MA!TRE D' HOTEL. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes a quarter of an inch thick, 
and put into a saucepan with four or five tablespoonfuls 
of milk, two or three of butter, pepper, salt, and chopped 
parsley. Heat quickly, stirring all the time until ready to 
boil, when stir in a tablespoonful of flour, and two min- 
utes later, the juice of a lemon. Take instantly from the 
fire so soon as this last ingredient goes in. 

STRING-BEANS SAUT. 

Open a can of string-beans and drain off the water. 
Cut them into inch lengths ; cook twenty minutes in 
salted boiling water. Drain them, put them back into 
the saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of butter, a pinch 
of salt and a little pepper. Toss them over a clear fire 
for three minutes, until they are very hot; then turn out 
into a deep dish. 

JAUNE MANGE. 

1 package Coxe's gelatine, soaked in a cup of cold 

water. 

2 cups of boiling water. 
Yolks of 4 eggs, beaten light. 

i orange juice and one-half the grated rind. 

Juice of one lemon and one-third of the grated peel. 

i cup sherry wine. 

i cup of powdered sugar. 

A good pinch of cinnamon. 

Put gelatine (soaked), sugar, juice, peels, and spice into 
a bowl and pour the boiling water over them. Stir until 
dissolved ; put over the fire in a saucepan, and heat 
almost to boiling. Pour, very gradually, upon the beaten 
yolks Return to the fire in a farina-kettle and stir 



THIRD WEEK TUESDAY. 2O1 

one minute. It must not boil. Take it off, add the wine, 
and strain through double tarlatan. 

If you have ice, or if the weather be cold, set the 
mould containing this in the refrigerator, or in a very cool 
closet from Saturday to Monday. By making it on the 
former day, you can add to the excellence of your m- 
ringue on the transparent puddings by using the whites of 
the four eggs required for the receipt. Pass light cakes 
with the jaune mange. 



(fruesbctg. 



Quick Lobster Soup. 

Roast Tenderloin of Beef. Mashed Potatoes. 

Made Mustard. Canned Succotash. 

Apple Trifle. 
Lady's-Fingers. 



QUICK LOBSTER SOUP. 

Three Ibs. of fish the less choice parts of halibut or 
cod will do those which are too bony for table use. 
Cover with three quarts of cold water and boil down to 
less than two or until the fish is in rags. Strain through 
a fine sieve and put on to boil. Season with salt and 
pepper. When you have skimmed it well, stir in a cup 
of milk in which has been mixed two lablespoonfuls of 
corn-starch. Boil up well ; then add two tablespoonfuls 
of butter. Stir it in, take out a cupful of soup and beat 
ii into two eggs. Return to the soup and leaving the 
saucepan on the range, but not over the fire, stir in a can 
of preserved lobster, freed from bones and cut up small. 
Cover and stand in a pot of hot water ten minutes before 
pouring out. 

ROAST TENDERLOIN OF BEEF. 

As I have before stated, this is the best, and not the 
least economical cut for the table, there, being no waste 

9* 



202 MARCH. 

and scarcely any bone. Put in the dripping-pan, pour a 
cup of boiling water over it, and roast carefully, basting 
often with its own gravy. When nearly done, dredge 
with flour and baste once with butter. Do not let it once 
get dry while cooking. Allow about ten minutes per 
pound if you 'like it rare and juicy that is, if your oven 
be of moderate heat. Pour the fat from the gravy, thicken 
what is left with browned flour, pepper, and salt, boil up, 
and put into a gravy-boat. Pass made mustard with it. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Please see receipt given last Friday. 

CANNED SUCCOTASH. 

Open the can an hour before it is to be cooked, and 
turn into a bowl. Drain off the liquor, put the succotash 
into a saucepan, cover with boiling water, and stew half 
an hour. Throw off half the water, and add as much cold 
milk. When it boils, put in a tablespoonful of butter, 
cut into quarters and rolled in flour ; pepper and salt ; 
simmer five minutes and serve in a vegetable-dish. 

APPLE TRIFLE. 

2 heaping cupfuls of good apple sauce, well sweetened 
and flavored with grated lemon peel. 

4 eggs. 

2 cups of milk. 

4 tablesjDoonfuls of sugar. 

Heat the milk, and pour over the beaten yolks and 
sugar. Put back in a farina-kettle, and stir until it begins 
to thicken, say about eight minutes. Set by in a shallow 
vessel to cool. Beat the whites very stiff, then whip grad- 
ually into the apple. When all is in, and well beaten, pile 
up in a glass dish, and pour the cold custard about the 
base. 

LADY'S-FINGERS, 

Or small, fresh sponge-cakes, should be passed with the 
trifle. 



THIRD WEEK WEDNESDAY. 2O3 



Mock-Turtle Soup. 

Veal Cutlets and Brains. Potatoes au Gratin. 

Lettuce. Stewed Tomatoes and Onion. 

Steamed Bread Pudding. 



MOCK-TURTLE SOUP. 

1 calf's head, well-cleaned, with the skin on. 

2 onions. 

Bunch of sweet herbs. 

5 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

5 tablespoonfuls of browned flour. 

i tablespoonful of allspice. 

teaspoonful of mace. 

1 teaspoonful of pepper. 

2 teaspoonfuls, at least, of salt. 
2 raw eggs. 

A little flour. 

2 glasses of brown sherry. 

i tablespoonful mushroom, or walnut catsup. 

5 quarts of water, cold, of course. 

i sliced lemon. 

Soak the calf s head an hour in cold water, and boil in the 
five quarts of water until the bones will slip easily from 
the flesh. Take out the head, leaving the bones and 
broth in the pot. Take out the tongue and brains, and 
put them in separate plates. Set aside, also, the cheeks 
and the fleshy parts of the scalp to cool. Chop the rest, 
including the ears, very fine. Reserve four spoonfuls of 
this for force-meat balls. Season the rest with pepper, 
salt, onion, allspice, herbs, and mace, and put back into 
the pot. Cover closely, and cook four hours. Should 
the liquor sink to less than four quarts, replenish with 
boiling water. Just before straining the soup, take out 
half a cupful ; put into a frying-pan ; heat, and stir in the 
browned flour, wet up in cold water, also the butter. 
Simmer these together ten minutes, stirring almost con- 
stantly. Strain the soup ; scald the pot and return the 



204 MARCH. 

broth to the fire. Have ready the tongue and fleshy parts 
of the head cut, after cooling, into small squares ; also, 
about fifteen balls made of the chopped meat, highly 
seasoned, worked into the proper consistency with a little 
flour and bound with the raw eggs, beaten into the paste. 
They should be as soft as can be handled. Grease a pie- 
plate, flour the balls and set in a quick oven until a crust 
forms upon them, then cool. Now, thicken the strained 
broth with the mixture in the frying-pan, stirred in well. 
Should there not be enough to make it almost like cus- 
tard, add more flour. Then drop in the dice of tongue 
and fat meat. Cook slowly five minutes. Put the force- 
meat balls and thin slices of a peeled lemon into the 
tureen. Pour the soup upon them, add catsup and wine ; 
cover five minutes and serve. 

This king of soups having, of right, received such a long 
and minute notice, I shall not repeat the receipt in full 
in this work, but take the liberty of referring you, from 
time to time, to that just given. 

VEAL CUTLETS AND BRAINS. 

Flatten the cutlets with the broad side of a hatchet ; 
dip in beaten egg, then in cracker-dust, and fry rather 
slowly in ham-dripping, if you have it ; if not, in salted 
lard. Drain off the fat ; put into a hot-water dish, pepper, 
and cover while you fry, in the same fat, after straining it, 
the brains from the head of which your soup was made. 
They should first have been boiled for ten minutes, 
drained, and cooled ; then beaten to a paste with egg, 
seasoned with pepper and salt, and dropped by the spoon- 
ful into the scalding fat. Drain, and lay about the cut- 
lets as a garnish. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Mash as usual; put into a shallow pie -plate well 
greased ; strew thickly with dry crumbs, and brown upon 
the upper grating of the oven. Glaze with butter, when 
the gratin begins to brown well. Slip dexterously to a 
flat dish. 

STEWED TOMATOES AND ONION. 

To one can of tomatoes add a small onion, minced 
fine. Season with pepper, salt, a little sugar, and stetf 



THIRD WEEK THURSDAY. 2O$ 

twenty-five minutes. Stir in a tablespoonful of butter; 
cook two minutes, and serve. 

LETTUCE. 
Treat as directed on last Sunday. 

STEAMED BREAD PUDDING. 
2 cups of milk. 

2 cups fine bread-crumbs. 
\ Ib. suet, powdered. 

Ib. Sultana raisins, picked, washed, dried, and dredged 
with flour. 

3 eggs. 

i even tablespoonful of corn-starch. 

i tablespoonful of sugar. 

A little salt. 

Heat the milk ; pour over the eggs and sugar, beaten 
together. Stir in the corn-starch; cook one minute, and 
pour upon the bread-crumbs, beating all. to a batter. 
Put a layer of this in the bottom of a buttered pudding- 
mould. Cover this with suet ; then with raisins ; sprinkle 
with sugar; then more butter, and proceed in the fore- 
going order until the mould is nearly full. Fit on the top, 
put into the steamer over a pot of boiling water, and 
steam at least two hours. If you have no steamer, boil 
one hour and a half. When done, dip the mould into cold 
water for half a minute, and turn out, with care, upon a 
hot, flat dish. Eat hot with wine sauce. 



I)irb 



Curry Soup. 

Stewed Beef. Bermuda Potatoes, au Naturel. 

Macaroni, Baked. Gherkin Pickles. 

White Puffs. 



Custard Sauce, 

CURRY SOUP. 

You can, if you dislike the taste of curry, warm up 
what was left from your mock-turtle soup, just as it is. 



2O6 MARCH. 

But you can vary it, agreeably to most palates, by stirring 
into it, when melted, and almost on the boil, a tablespoon- 
ful of curry powder, if there be more than three pints of 
soup half as much, should there be but a quart. Wet 
the powder up in cold water, add to the soup, and cook 
three minutes. 

STEWED BEEF. 

3 Ibs. of beef not too lean coarse steak or brisket. 

i chopped onion. 

Bunch of thyme, sweet marjoram, and summer savory. 

Pepper, salt, parsley. 

\ teaspoonful of allspice. 

i tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce. 

i tablespoonful of browned flour. 

i pint of cold water. 

\ glass of wine. 

Cut the meat into strips about an inch long. Cover 
with a pint of water, and stew gently two hours. The 
meat should be ready to fall to pieces. Add the onion 
and herbs cut up fine, the spice, salt and pepper, and 
stew half an hour, closely covered. Then stir in the 
browned flour, and when it has thickened, the sauce and 
wine. Cover the bottom of a deep dish with strips of 
fried bread, and pour the stew over it. If cooked long 
and slowly enough, it will be a rich brown mixture, with 
no hard lumps of meat in it. Save half a cupful of gravy 
for to-morrow. 

BERMUDA POTATOES AU NATUREL. 
Wash and boil in hot salted water, until a fork will 
easily pierce them. Drain off the water, throw salt over 
them, and "dry off" upon the range for a few minutes. 
Peel, and serve whole. 

BAKED MACARONI. 

Break half a pound of macaroni into short pieces ; 
cook in boiling water, salted, twenty minutes. Drain, 
put a layer into a greased bake-dish ; strew thickly with 
grated cheese, and stick bits of butter over it. Go on in 
this order until the dish is full, strewing cheese and but- 
ter on top. Pour in a cup of milk ; bake, covered, thirty 
minutes ; then brown nicely. Serve in the pudding-dish 



THIRD WEEK FRIDAY. 2O? 

WHITE PUFFS. 

2 cups of rich milk. 

Whites of 4 eggs whipped stiff. 

2 cups prepared flour. 

i scant cup of powdered sugar. 

Grated peel of half a lemon. 

A little salt. 

Whisk eggs, lemon, and sugar to a meringue, and add 
alternately with the flour to the milk. The salt should be 
sifted with the flour. Beat very light, and bake in small, 
well-buttered tins, or cups. Turn out, sift powdered 
sugar over them, and eat with custard sauce. 

CUSTARD SAUCE. 

2 beaten eggs. 

i large cup of sugar. 

i scant cup of scalding milk. 

J- teaspoonful of arrowroot, wet with cold milk. 

i tablespoonful of butter. 

j- teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

Rub the butter into the sugar, add the eggs, and beat 
light. Put in corn-starch and spice ; finally, pour upon 
this mixture, by degrees, the boiling milk. Set within a 
saucepan of boiling water five minutes, stirring all the 
while, but do not let it really boil. 



tUeek. 

Clam Chowder. 

Braised Duck. Weak Fish, Fried. 

Grape Jelly. Puree of Green Peas. 

Cauliflower a la Creme. 

Corn Meal Pudding without Eggs. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Fry five or six slices of fat salt pork crisp, and cnop 
fine. Sprinkle a layer in the bottom of a pot ; cover 



208 MARCH. 

with clams ; sprinkle with pepper, salt, and bits of butter, 
then with minced onion. Next, have a stratum of small 
crackers, split and soaked in warm milk. When the pot 
has been filled in this order, cover all with cold water, 
and cook slowly (after the water is heated) three-quarters 
of an hour. Strain the chowder, without pressing or 
shaking ; put clams, etc., into a covered tureen ; return 
the liquor to the pot. Thicken with rolled crackers ; add 
a glass of wine, a tablespoonful of catsup ; boil up, and 
pour over the chowder. Pass sliced lemon with it. 

FRIED WEAK FISH. 

Clean, wash, and dry the fish. Lay in a broad pan or 
dish ; salt, and dredge with flour. Fry in hot lard or very 
nice dripping to a light brown. In serving, lay the fish 
side by side, the head of each to the tail of the one next 
him. Garnish with parsley. 

BRAISED DUCK. 

Clean and wash the duck. Stuff with a dressing of 
bread-crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt, a little 
onion and sage. Sew up the vent, and tie the neck to 
keep in the flavor. Fry the duck in a great spoonful of 
butter until lightly browned, turning it often. Add the 
butter used for frying to the gravy saved from yesterday ; 
thin with boiling water, and, having put the duck into a 
saucepan, strain this gravy over it. It should half cover 
the fowl. Stew slowly forty-five minutes, or until tender, 
keeping the lid on all the while. Take up the duck, 
cover to keep it warm, straki the gravy, and if very oily, 
take off the top. Boil sharply ten minutes in an open 
saucepan ; thicken with browned flour ; put back the 
duck into it, and set the saucepan, again covered, in boil- 
ing water for a quarter of an hour. Serve the gravy in a 
boat. 

PURE"E OF GREEN PEAS. 

Open a can of peas, drain off the liquor, and cook 
twenty minutes in boiling water slightly salted. Strain 
off the water through a colander ; mash the peas with the 



THIRD WEEK FRIDAY. 

back of a wooden spoon, and rub through the colander 
into a bowl below. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter into 
a saucepan, with pepper, salt, and a little sugar, and, if 
you fancy it, three mint leaves finely chopped. Heat, 
but not to boiling, stir in the pulped peas, and toss about 
with a silver fork or spoon until they are a smoking mass. 
Pile in a hot dish, with triangles of fried bread laid up 
around the base. 

CAULIFLOWER 1 LA CREME. 

Boil a fine cauliflower, tied up snugly in coarse tarla- 
tan, in hot water, a little salt. Drain and lay in a deep 
dish, flower uppermost. Heat a cup of milk ; thicken 
with two tablespoonfuls of butter, cut into bits, and rolled 
in flour. Add pepper, salt, the beaten white of an egg, 
and boil up one minute, stirring well. Take from the 
fire, squeeze the juice of a lemon through a hair sieve 
into the sauce, and pour half into a boat, the rest over the 
cauliflower. 

CORN-MEAL PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. 

* 

2 cups Indian meal. 

1 cup of flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls of molasses. 

3 cups of sour milk "loppered," or "bonny-clab- 

ber," if you can get it. 
i great spoonful of melted butter, 
i full teaspoonful: of soda, 
i teaspoonful of salt. 
\ teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

Sift the salt with the flour, and mix up well with the 
meal. Make a hole in the middle, and pour in the milk, 
stirring the meal and flour down into it. Beat smooth. 
Mix molasses, spice, butter, and the soda this last, dis- 
solved in hot water-^-all together, ar.d beat into the bat 
ter well and hard. Butter a tin mould with a cover ; 
pour in the pudding, and boil steadily an hour and a half 
Eat hot with butter and sugar. 



210 MARCH. 



tfytrlr tDeek. 



Chicken Broth. 

Pate of Salt Cod. Boiled Chicken and Riee. 

Mashed Turnips. Egg Sauce. 

Ambrosia. 
Cafe au Lait and Sponge-Cake. 



CHICKEN BROTH. 

Clean, wash, and truss, but do not stuff, a full-grown 
fowl. Set aside the giblets for another use. Bind the 
legs and wings of the fowl closely to its sides. Put into 
a pot with four quarts of water (cold), and cook gently 
until the liquor has fallen one-third. Then add a full cup 
of rice, soaked for one hour in a very little water, and boil 
half an hour more, or until the chicken is tender and the 
rice soft, but not broken to pieces. Take out the 
chicken. Wipe off the adhering grains of rice, wash over 
with butter, salt and pepper, and set, covered, upon a pot 
of boiling water to keep hot. Season the soup with pep- 
per and salt, and simmer ten minutes more. Then strain 
out the rice, and cover it to keep hot. Return the soup 
to the pot, stir in a cup of hot milk, a tablespoonful of 
corn-starch wet with cold water, and a handful of very 
finely minced parsley. Boil up, take, from the fire, and 
pour by degrees upon two beaten eggs. Cover for three 
minutes ; then pour into the tureen. 

PAT& OF SALT COD. 

i cup of cold salt cod, soaked all night in soft water, 
boiled in the morning, left to cool, then " picked " 
into boneless flakes. 

1 cup of oyster-liquor. 

2 even tabiespoonfuls of rice flour, or corn starch. 

3 tabiespoonfuls of butter. 
Chopped parsley and pepper. 
3 hard-boiled eggs, minced. 



N 

THIRD WEEK SATURDAY. 211 

Some rich paste. (See " French Puff Paste," page 352, 
No. i, COMMON SENSE SERIES GENERAL RE- 
CEIPTS.) 

Boil the oyster-liquor, stir in the corn-starch wet up 
with cold milk. When it thickens, add the butter and 
pepper ; next the parsley and fish. Heat almost to boil- 
ing, and stir in the chopped egg. Take from the fire, 
and cover, over a pot of boiling water, ten minutes. 

Make the shell by lining a profusely buttered cake- 
mould, or round pan with nearly straight sides, with a 
thick sheet of puff-paste, pricking it at the bottom to pre- 
vent too much puffing. Cut a round piece exactly the 
size of the top, for a cover, and bake separately. Bake 
both in a quick oven. Let them get almost cool, turn 
out the shell with the utmost care ; fill slowly with the 
prepared fish, that the sides may not give way ; fit on the 
top ; hold an inverted hot plate firmly upon it and re- 
verse the pate skilfully, leaving the closed side upper- 
most. It is easily done, if one is only fearless yet dex- 
terous. Eat hot. 

BOILED CHICKEN AND RICE. 

Boil the giblets tender in a little salted water ; chop 
' fine, and when the rice is strained from the soup, mix 
them well through it. Pile the rice, when you are ready 
to serve it, upon a meat dish ; lay the chicken upon the 
top ; pour a few spoonfuls of egg sauce over it, and send 
to table. 

EGG SAUCE. 

One cup of the broth in which the chicken was boiled, 
heated ; thickened with a tablespoonful of butter rolled 
thickly in flour ; poured over two beaten eggs ; boiled 
one minute, with a tablespoonful of parsley stirred in ; 
then seasoned and poured upon the pounded yolks of 
two boiled eggs placed in the bottom of a bowl. Stir up 
well, and it is ready. 

MASHED TURNIPS. 

Boil in salted water, until tender ; mash and drain in 
a hot colander, working in butter, salt, and pepper, 
Mound up in a hot, deep dish, covered. 



212 MARCH. 

AMBROSIA. 

8 fine oranges, peeled and sliced. 
\ grated cocoanut. 
cup of powdered sugar. 

Arrange slices of orange in a glass dish ; scatter grated 
cocoanut thickly over them ; sprinkle this lightly with 
sugar, and cover with another layer of orange. Fill the 
dish in this order, having a double quantity of cocoanut 
and sugar at top. Serve soon after it is prepared. 

CAF AU LAIT AND SPONGE-CAKE. 
To one pint strong made coffee, add the same quantity 
of boiling milk. The coffee should be first strained 
through muslin into the table-urn, then the milk poured 
in with it. Wrap the urn in a woollen cloth, if you have 
no " cozy," for five minutes before serving. Send around 
sponge-cake, home-made or bought, with it. 



Jburtl) tihek. 



A Good Stock Soup. 

Beef a la Mode de Rome. Potato Puff, 

Hominy Croquettes. Spinach. 

Chow-chow. 

Snow Custard. 
Nuts and Raisins. 

A GOOD STOCK SOUP. 

5 Ibs. brisket of beef. 
2 Ibs. mutton-bones. 

2 onions, sliced and fried. 

2 carrots. 

2 turnips. 

4 stalks of celery. 

Bones of chicken or duck, if you have them. 

6 cloves. 



FOURTH WEEK SUNDAY. 213 

f cup of sago or barley. 

6 quarts of cold water. 

Sweet herbs. 

Pepper and salt. 

Slice the meat, crack the bones, chop the vegetables, 
and put all on over the fire with the water. Boil slowly 
five or six hours ; strain ; pick out the meat as well as 
you can, and set aside. Then, rub the vegetables 
through a colander, prior to straining all through your 
soup-sieve. Set aside half the stock for Monday. Do 
thus much on Saturday. Or, if you choose, do not strain 
the soup at all until Sunday morning. It will be the 
richer for cooling with meat, etc., in it. In either case, 
season before setting it away, or it may sour. Put Sun- 
day's stock back into the pot ; boil up and skim, before 
adding the half cup of pearl sago, previously soaked for 
two hours in a very little cold water. Simmer twenty 
minutes and pour out. 

BEEF 1 LA MODE DE ROME. 

Cut a quarter of a pound of streaked salt pork, and the 
same quantity of lean beef into strips, and fry, with a sliced 
onion, in good dripping. Put them in the bottom of a pot 
and lay a rib roast of beef, rolled round, upon them. Add 
a pint of boiling water, cover, and cook ten minutes to 
the pound, turning the beef three times meanwhile. 
Transfer the meat to a dripping-pan, dredge the top with 
flour, then baste with its own gravy, once. Keep kot, 
without cooking, while you strain the gravy left in the pot, 
thicken it with browned flour (always after taking the fat 
from the top), season with pepper, and stir in a teaspoon- 
ful of sugar, a handful of Sultana raisins, picked and 
washed, and the same quantity of blanched almonds, cut 
into tiny strips. Boil gently three minutes, dish the beef, 
and pour the sauce over it. 

Odd as this receipt may seem to an American house- 
wife, the result is extremely palatable, and a good change 
of fare at this season. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Mash the potatoes soft with milk and butter, season and 
beat very light with two raw eggs. Smooth and bake to 



214 MARCH. 

a light brown in a greased pudding-dish, in which, also, 
serve it. 

HOMINY CROQUETTES. 

2 cups of fine-grained hominy, boiled and cold. 

2 beaten eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

Salt to taste. 

} cup of finely chopped beef, left over from your soup, 
after straining the latter. 

Pepper. 

Work hominy, butter, and salt to a smooth paste ; beat 
in the eggs, finally the chopped meat, after peppering and 
salting it. Stir up in a farina-kettle until hot. and pour 
out to cool. When cold, make into long rolls with floured 
hands, flour each well by rolling upon a dish, and fry to a 
yellow-brown in sweet lard. Drain off the fat and pile 
upon a hot dish. 

SPINACH. 

Boil in hot, salted water, twenty 'minutes, drain and 
press hard ; chop fine, and return to the saucepan with a 
large spoonful of butter, pepper, salt, a little sugar and a 
pinch of mace. Stir, and beat until very hot; then pour 
into a deep dish. 

SNOW CUSTARD. 

\ package of Coxe's gelatine. 
3 eggs. 

1 pint of milk. 

2 cups of sugar. 
Juice of one lemon. 

i large cup boiling water. 

Soak the gelatine one hour in a teacupful of cold water, 
then stir in two-thirds of the sugar, the lemon-juice and 
the boiling water. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth, and when the strained gelatine is quite cold, whip 
it into the whites, a spoonful at a time for half an hour, if 
you use the Dover egg-beater (at least one hour with any 
other). When all is white and stiff, pour into a wet mould, 
and set in a cold place. Make this on Saturday, and on 
Sunday dip the mould into hot water, and turn out into a 
glass dish. Make, a custard of the milk, eggs, and the resl 



FOURTH WEEKMONDAY. 21 5 

of the sugar, flavoring with vanilla ; boil until it begins to 
thicken. When the meringue is turned into the dish, pour 
this custard, cold, about the base. 

NUTS AND RAISINS 
Serve as another and a last course. 



Jcmrti) 



Vermicelli Soup. 

Browned Mince of Beef. Stewed Potatoes, Creamed. 

Mixed Pickles. Broccoli. 

Canned Peaches and Cream. 

Myrtle's Cake. 

Tea. 



VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Boil a quarter of a pound of vermicelli in a little salted 
water fifteen minutes. Heat the stock set aside for to- 
day, 'when you have taken the fat from the top, and when 
scalding, add the vermicelli. 

N. B. Always break vermicelli and macaroni small 
before cooking. Add a little chopped parsley ; simmer 
fifteen minutes and pour out. 

BROWNED MINCE OF BEEF. 

Cut all the meat from the bones of yesterday's roast, 
setting away the bones for another day's soup. Mince the 
beef fine ; mix with it one-fourth as much mashed potato, 
season highly with pepper, salt, a little mustard and cat- 
sup ; work soft with the remains of yesterday's gravy; 
heat in a saucepan, then heap upon a stone china dish, 
cover the mound with fine crumbs, and brown upon the 
upper grating of your oven. Put bits of butter thickly 
over the top as it begins to brown. 



2l6 MARCH. 

STEWED POTATOES CREAMED 

Chop cold boiled potatoes coarse ; put on in a saucepan 
with a cup of milk, and heat in an outer vessel of hot 
water. When scalding, pepper and salt ; stir in a table- 
spoonful of butter, cut up and rolled in flour, and when 
this has melted, a beaten egg, stirred in while the pota- 
toes are not boiling. Simmer one minute, and turn out. 

BROCCOLI. 

Wash, and let stand in salt and water one hour. Cook 
in boiling salted water fifteen minutes. When tender, 
drain dry, and serve with melted butter (peppered) poured 
over it. 

CANNED PEACHES AND CREAM. 

Open the can at least an hour before using, and turn 
into a glass disk ; sprinkle with sugar. Serve in saucers, 
sending around powdered sugar and cream to each person. 

MYRTLE'S CAKE, 

Or any other good cup cake, made last week, may be 
sliced and passed with the fruit and cream. If you desire 
a receipt for this particular cake please consult " Break- 
fast, Luncheon and Tea," No. 2, COMMON SENSE SERIES, 
page 334. 



Barley Broth. 
Boiled Leg of Mutton. Kidney Beans. 

Oyster Sauce. Bermuda Potatoes, Baked, 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

BARLEY BROTH. 

2 Ibs. knuckle of veal. Beef bones from yesterday, 
i onion, 
i turnip. 

i stalk of celery. 
Chopped parsley. 






FOURTH WEEK TUESDAY. 2 1/ 

i cup Scotch barley. 

3 quarts of water. 

Break the bones to splinters and chop the meat Mince 
the vegetables, and put all into a soup-kettle, with the 
water. Boil slowly three hours, until the liquor has fallen 
one-third. Meanwhile wash the barley and boil half an 
hour in a little salted water. Strain your soup ; cool to 
let the fat arise, and take this off. Season with pepper 
and salt and boil up. Skim, put in the barley, and cook 
gently half an hour longer. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 

The mutton will be cleaner and in better shape if boiled 
tied up in coarse net or tarlatan. Put on in boiling 
water, plenty of it, slightly salt, and cook steadily fifteen 
minutes to the pound. Save the broth for soup. Undo 
the net from the meat, rub the latter over with butter, 
lay on a hot dish, and send the oyster sauce in a boat. 
Garnish the mutton with sliced cucumber pickles. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

1 pint of oysters. 
Half a lemon. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, rolled well in flour, 
i teacupful of milk. 

Cayenne and nutmeg to taste. 

Heat the oyster liquor, and when it boils, skim, and put 
in the oysters. So soon as they boil, stir in the butter, 
cut up and well floured, the spice -and lemon-juice. Boil 
five minutes, take from the fire and put with the milk 
which has been heated in another vessel. Stir up well, 
and pour out. 

KIDNEY BEANS. 

Soak all night. In the morning put on in warm not 
hot water slightly salted, and cook tender. Drain dry, 
stir in a great lump of butter, a little salt and pepper, and 
turn into a deep dish. 

BERMUDA POTATOES BAKED. 

Select those of uniform size ; wash, and bake in a 
moderate oven until soft to the pinching fingers. Wipe 
clean, and serve in their skins, wrapped in a napkin. 



218 MARCH. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 
i heaping cup fine bread-crumbs, 
i cocoanut, pared and grated, 
i tablespoonful corn-starch, wet in cold water. 
J cup of butter. 

1 cup of powdered sugar. 

2 cups of milk. 
5 eggs. 

Nutmeg and rose-water to taste. 

Soak the crumbs in the milk. Rub butter and sugar to 
a cream, and whip in the beaten yolks. Beat this into 
the soaked crumbs ; stir in the corn-starch, then the 
whisked whites finally, the grated cocoanut. Beat very 
hard, pour into a neat pudding-dish, well buttered, and 
bake in a moderate oven forty-five minutes. Eat cold, 
with powdered sugar on top. 



Jamil) tihek. 



Tomato Soup. 

Swiss Turnovers. Salmon Pudding. 

Mashed Potatoes. Lettuce Salad with Cream Dressing. 



Wayne Pudding. 

TOMATO SOUP, 

Open a can of tomatoes, and cut them up small. Take 
the fat from the top of the liquor in which your mutton 
was cooked yesterday ; put over the fire with the toma- 
toes and half a cup of raw rice, and cook slowly one hour. 
Season to taste, adding a lump of loaf sugar and a table- 
spoonful of butter, rolled in flour ; simmer five minutes, 
and poui into the tureen. 

SALMON PUDDING. 
i can preserved salmon. 
4 eggs, beaten light. 
4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 



FOURTH WEEK WEDNESDAY. 219 

\ cup fine bread-crumbs. 

Pepper, salt, and minced parsley. 

Chop the fish fine, rub to a paste with the butter. 
Beat the bread-crumbs up with the eggs and seasoning ; 
work all together ; put into a buttered mould, with a tight 
top, and boil one hour. Dip in cold water ; turn it out 
upon a hot dish. Have ready a cupful of drawn butter 
with a raw egg beaten into it, and pour over the pudding. 

Swiss TURNOVERS. 

Mince the cold mutton left from yesterday. Put half a 
cupful of hot water into a saucepan ; stir in a great spoon- 
ful of butter, cut up in flour ; season with pepper, salt, 
and tomato catsup. Pour over a beaten egg, mix well, 
and, returning to the saucepan, add the mince, well sea- 
soned with pepper, salt, a little grated lemon-peel and 
nutmeg. Stir up until very hot, but not boiling. Set by 
to keep hot while you make a batter of one pint of flour, 
four eggs, a little salt, and a quarter spoonful of soda, dis- 
solved in vinegar, and about four cups of milk enough 
for thin batter. Beat very light. Put a spoonful of lard 
(a small one) into a hot frying-pan, run it over the bottom, 
turn in a half cupful of batter, and fry quickly. Invert 
the pan upon a hot plate, and this, in turn, upon another, 
to have the browned side of the pancake downward ; 
cover the lighter side with the mince ; fold up neatly and 
lay upon a hot dish in the open oven to keep warm, 
while you fry and spread the rest. 

They are very nice. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Prepare as usual, and pass with both fish and meat. 

LETTUCE SALAD WITH CREAM DRESSING. 

cupful of new milk, if you have no cream. 

1 teaspoonful of corn-starch. 
Whites of 2 eggs, beaten stiff. 
3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

2 tablespoonfuls best salad oil. 
2 teaspoonfuls powdered sugar, 
i teaspoonful of salt. 



22O MARCH. 

J teaspoonful of pepper. 

i teaspoonful of made mustard. 

Heat the milk (or cream) almost to boiling ; stir in the 
corn-starch wet up with cold milk. Boil up, add the 
sugar, and take from the fire. Cool, beat in the frothed 
whites, oil, pepper, mustard and salt, and, when the let- 
tuce is shred fine, add the vinegar to the dressing, and 
pour over it. Toss up with a silver fork. Eat very soon, 

WAYNE PUDDING. 
. 2 full cups of prepared flour. 

cup of butter. 

i cup of powdered sugar. 

i lemon, the juice and half the grated peel. 

J Ib. of citron, cut into very thin strips. 

5 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 
Cream butter and sugar ; add the beaten yolks ; whip 
up light with the lemon, then add the whites, alternately 
with the flour. Butter a mould abundantly, line it with 
the strips of citron ; put in the batter, a few spoonfuls at 
a time ; cover and set in a pan of boiling water, in a good 
oven. Keep plenty of boiling water in the pan, and cook 
steadily one hour and a half. Dip into cold water and 
turn out upon a hot plate. Eat warm with wine or brandy 
sauce. Leave room in the mould for the pudding to 
swell. Never heat a pudding or cake mould before greas* 
ing it or the batter will stick. 



Jottrtl) 

Ox-tail Soup. 

Irish Stew. Corn Pudding. 

Potatoes a la Lyonnaise. 



Queen's Toast. 
OX-TAIL SOUP. 



1 ox-tail. 

2 Ibs. of lean beef. 
4 carrots. 



FOURTH WEEK THURSDAY. 221 

3 onions. 

Thyme and parsley. 

Pepper and salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of browned flour. 

4 quarts of cold water. 

Cut the tail into joints and fry brown in good dripping. 
Slice the onions and two carrots, and fry in the same, 
when you have taken out the pieces of tail. When done, 
tie them, with thyme and parsley, in a lace bag, and drop 
into the soup-pot. Put in the tail, then the beef, cut into 
strips. Grate over them the two whole carrots, pour over 
all the water, and boil slowly four hours. Strain and 
season ; thicken with brown flour wet with cold water j 
boil fifteen minutes longer, and pour out. 

IRISH STEW. 

3 Ibs. of lean beef a sirloin steak is best. 

8 parboiled potatoes. 

2 onions, or one, if it be large, also parboiled. 

Browned flour for thickening. 

Thyme and sweet marjoram. 

Pepper and salt. 

A little pie-paste not rich for dumplings. 
Cut the meat into pieces an inch wide by two long. 
Slice the parboiled potatoes and onions. Put a layer of 
meat in a pot ; then one of potatoes, next one of onions. 
Pepper and salt each sparingly ; scatter the herbs upon 
the onions ; put in more meat, and so on. When all are 
in, cover barely with cold water, and stew slowly two 
hours. Strain out the meat, and put into a covered dish 
a chafing-dish, if you have one. Return the gravy to 
the saucepan ; thicken with browned flour ; cut your paste 
into narrow strips two inches long, and drop, one by one, 
into the boiling gravy. Slew about eight minutes, and 
pour over meat, potatoes, etc., which await it in the dish. 

CORN PUDDING. 
To one can of corn add 
3 beaten eggs. 

1 cupful of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 



222 MARCH. 

i table spoonful of sugar. 
A little salt. 

Rub butter and sugar together ; beat in the eggs ; salt 
the milk, and put in next ; lastly, the corn, drained of 
can liquor. Beat up well ; pour into a greased bake-dish, 
and set, covered, in the oven. At the end of half an hour, 
take off the lid, and brown. 

POTATOES 1 LA LYONNAISE. 

Parboil double the quantity of potatoes required for 
your Irish stew, and lay aside eight for this dish. Cut, 
when cold, into dice; fry a small chopped onion in a 
heaping spoonful of butter, for one minute, then put in 
the potatoes. Stir briskly to keep them from browning ; 
cook until very hot; add a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley ; stir a minute longer ; turn all into a heated col- 
ander ; shake hard to get rid of the grease, and serve hot 
in a vegetable-dish. 

QUEEN'S TOAST. 

Cut slices of stale baker's bread round with a cake-cut- 
ter, taking off all the crust. Fry in sweet lard to a light 
brown. Dip each round quickly into boiling water to re- 
move the fat. Sprinkle thickly on both sides with a mix- 
ture of powdered sugar and nutmeg, and pile upon a het 
plate. You may dispense with sauce if you will heat a 
glass of wine, and put a teaspoonful, or less, upon each 
piece, after dipping it into the water, and before sugar- 
ing it. Serve hot. 



Jburtl) 



Rechauffe Soup. 

Chickens with Mushroom Sauce. Lobster Croquettes. 

Cabbage Sprouts. Boiled Macaroni. 

Nursery Plum Pudding. 
RECHAUFFE SOUP. 

.? excellent a soup as ox-tail deserves repetition, and 
the probability is that, since Friday is a fast day from 



FOURTH WEEK FRIDAY. 22$ 

meat with Roman Catholic servants, you have enough 
soup left over for your family proper. Warm it up, ma- 
king very hot, but not to boiling. If you like, you car 
put some dice of crisp fried bread in the tureen. 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 

To a can of preserved lobster, chopped fine, add pep- 
per, salt, and powdered mace. Mix with this one-fourth 
as much bread-crumbs as you have meat, work in two 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and make into egg-shaped 
rolls. Roll these in raw egg, then in cracker-dust, and 
fry in butter or very sweet lard. Serve dry and hot with 
cresses or parsley laid around them. 

CHICKENS WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE. 
Split a pair of chickens down the back as for broiling, 
and lay in a dripping-pan, with two cups of boiling water, 
a little salt, poured over them. Cover very securely with 
another pan of the same size inverted and cook an 
hour and a half if the fowls are of fair size. Baste at 
least six times ; twice with butter in which has been 
mixed a little pepper ; three times, copiously, with their 
own gravy, and, just before they are done, again with 
butter. Boil half a can of mushrooms ten minutes in 
clear, hot water. Drain and mince them very fine. 
Take up the chickens and keep hot in a covered dish. 
Put the gravy into a saucepan ; add a little chopped 
onion; boil three minutes, thicken with browned flour; 
and stir in the chopped mushrooms. Simmer, covered, 
five minutes, and pour half over the chickens, the rest 
into a sauce-boat. Save all the gravy left after dinner. 

CABBAGE SPROUTS. 

Wash, trim, and boil in hot, salted water, with a bit of 
streaked salt pork, an inch square. When tender, drain, 
season, and chop fine. Stir in a tablespoonful of melted 
butter and the juice of half a lemon. Eat very hot. 

BOILED MACARONI. 

Break half a pound of pipe macaroni into short lengths. 
Cover well with boiling water, salted, and boil not too 



224 MARCH. 

fast about twenty minutes, or until tender and clear at 
the edges. Drain well ; pour a little into a hot, deep 
dish, and butter it, then strew with grated cheese. Do 
this three times in filling the dish, with cheese scattered 
over the top. 

NURSERY PLUM PUDDING. 

1 scant cup of raw rice. 

3 pints of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

j Ib. raisins, seeded, and cut in half. 

3 well-beaten eggs. 

Soak the rice two hours in a farina-kettle, just covered 
with warm water. When all the water is soaked up, shake 
the rice hard, to reach that at the bottom, and add a pint 
of milk. Simmer gently, still in the inner kettle, until the 
rice is again dry, and quite tender. Shake up anew, and 
add another pint of milk. When this is hot, put in the 
raisins, dredged with flour ; cover the saucepan and cook 
twenty minutes. Turn into a bowl ; put with it the but- 
ter, rice-flour, the remaining pint of milk, heated and 
mixed with the beaten eggs and sugar, and stir all up 
thoroughly. Bake in a buttered pudding-dish, about forty 
minutes. Eat warm with butter and sugar, or sugar and 
cream. 



Jbtrrtl) uhek. Saturbap. 

Dresden Soup. 
Boiled Blue Fish. Baked Calf s Head, 

Canned Succotash. 
Casserole of Rice with Tomato Sauce. 

Belle's Dumplings. 

DRESDEN SOUP. 

2 Ibs. of lean beef, cut into strips. 
4 pig's feet, cleaned well. 



FOURTH WEEK SATURDAY. 22$ 

4 Ibs. of mutton and beef bones, cracked. 
2 onions. 

1 bunch of sweet herbs. 

2 carrots. 

2 blades of mace. 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter, and the same of rice-flour. 

Juice of a lemon. 

i tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce. 

i raw egg for force-meat. 

Salt and pepper. 

6 quarts of cold water. 

i glass of claret. 

Early in the day, ptit on the meat, pig's feet and bones, 
and cook slowly five hours in six quarts of water. Skim 
then, carefully, add the onions, mace, and herbs, cut 
small, and the carrots, grated. Stew half an hour ; take 
out the meat and the feet, leaving the bones, etc., on the 
fire. Cut the flesh from the feet, and return the bones to 
the pot. Set aside half this flesh, with a few pieces of 
beef, to get cold. Chop the rest fine, and make up with 
pepper, salt, and a raw egg, into small force-meat balls. 
Roll them in flour, lay upon a greased plate, and set within 
the oven to " crust." When quite firm, take out and 
cool. Cut the reserved meat into small, square bits. 
When the soup has cooked half an hour after the meat 
was taken out, strain and season it. Divide into two 
portions. Into that designed for Sunday drop the dice 
of meat, from the pig's feet as well as the beef, and set 
away,- covered, in an earthenware vessel. Return the 
rest to the fire ; thicken with the butter, melted and 
worked up into the rice-flour ; add the sauce, lemon- 
juice, and a glass of claret. Put the force-meat halls into 
the heated tureen ; pour on the soup, cover five minutes, 
and serve. 

BOILED BLUE FISH. 

Sew up the fish neatly in a thin cloth, put on in scald- 
ing water with a little salt, half a small cup -of vinegar, a 
quarter of an onion, six whole black peppers, and a blade 
of mace. Let it stand, just below boiling heat, half an 
hour ; then increase the heat and boil thirty minutes more* 



226 MARCH. 

Take out, unwrap, lay upon a hot dish and pour over it 
a cupful of drawn butter, with a little lemon-juice stirred 
in it. 

BAKED CALF'S HEAD. 

Put on, having removed the brains, in four quarts of 
cold water, and boil gently one hour. Take out the head ; 
salt and pepper the liquor and set by as the foundation 
of Monday's soup, keeping out a cupful for gravy. Put 
the calf's head in a dripping-pan, rub over with butter, 
pour the gravy into the pan, and bake, covered basting 
four times for half an hour. Uncover, wash over with 
a mixture of melted butter, pepper, and salt, and a tea- 
spoonful of catsup. Dredge with browned flour, baste 
again, and when the surface is of a fine froth, dish the 
head. Strain and thicken the gravy, and serve in a boat. 
The brains should be washed well, boiled quickly, then 
cooled ; mashed to a smooth paste with pepper, salt, a 
dust of flour, and a raw egg, and fried, by the spoonful, in 
hot lard. Drain, and lay about the head. 

CANNED SUCCOTASH. 

Drain from the liquor ; cut the beans if French or 
string beans into short pieces ; cook half an hour in salted 
boiling water; drain this off; add a cup of hot milk, 
thicken with a great spoonful of butter, cut up in flour, 
pepper, and salt, and simmer ten minutes more. 

CASSEROLE OF RICE WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Boil one cup of rice tender in hot water, a little salt, 
shaking up from time to time, but never stirring. Drain 
dry, add a very little milk in which has been stirred a 
beaten egg. a teaspoonful of butter, a little pepper and 
salt. Simmer for five minutes, and if the rice has not 
absorbed all the milk, drain it again. Pile it around the 
inner edge of a flat dish ; smooth it neatly, rounding the 
top, into a sort of fence ; wash over carefully with the 
beaten yolks of two eggs, and set it in the oven until firm. 

Drain more than half the juice from a can of tomatoes ; 
season with a little chopped onion, pepper, salt, and 
sugar. Stew twenty minutes ; stir in a tablespoonful of 
butter, and two tablespoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs ; stew 



FIRST WEEK SUNDAY. 227 

three or four minutes to thicken it well, and pour within 
the hedge of rice. 

BELLE'S DUMPLINGS. 

1 quart prepared flour. 

2% tablepoonfuls of mixed lard and butter. 

2 cups of milk, or enough for soft dough. 

Roll out a quarter of an inch thick, cut into oblong 
pieces, rounded at the corners. Put a great spoonful of 
damson, cherry, or other tart preserve, in the middle, and 
roll into a dumpling. Bake about forty minutes, brush 
over with beaten egg, while hot, and shut up in the oven 
three minutes to glaze. Eat hot with brandy sauce. (For 
receipt for sauce see Wednesday, zd Week in January.} 



APRIL. 
Jtr0t tDeek. 



Clear Soup. 

Fricasseed Chickens, White. Buttered Parsnips. 

Savory Potatoes. Lettuce Salad, Plain, 

Pie-Plant (April) Fool. 
Coffee and Cake. 



CLEAR SOUP. 

Take the grease from the soup-jelly you will find in the 
crock into which the stock was poured yesterday. Take 
it up by the ladleful, leaving the meat and sediment at the 
bottom, and put on to heat in a squp-kettle. When it 
boils, stir in the beaten white of an egg ; take off the scum 
as fast as it rises, and when quite clear add two teaspoonfuls 
of Coxe's gelatine, previously soaked in cold water. Add, 
meanwhile, a little boiling water to the sediment and meat 
dice in the pot ; strain off the liquid ; pick out the bits of 
meat, and see that they arc clean. Drop into the soup at 



228 APRIL. 

the same time that you add four tablespoonfuls of colored 
water, made by burning a tablespoonful or two of sugar in a 
tin cup, pouring a little boiling water upon it, and stirring 
until you get a clear brown liquor. After these go in, 
do not let your soup really boil, but simmer a few minutes 
to throw up and remove any remaining scum. Pass sliced 
lemon with the soup. 

FRICASSEED CHICKENS WHITE. 

Clean, wash, and joint the fowls. Lay in cold salt and 
water for one hour. Put them into a pot, with half a pound 
of salt pork cut into strips, and cold water enough to cover 
them. Cover closely, and heat very slowly to a gentle 
boil. The excellence of the fricassee depends mainly upon 
care in this respect. If the fowls are full-grown and rea- 
sonably tender, stew more than one hour after they begin 
to boil. When done add half a chopped onion, parsley 
and pepper. Cover again for ten minutes. Stir up two 
tablespoonfuls of flour in cold water, then into a cup o/ 
hot milk, and this, in turn, into two beaten eggs. Then 
put in a great spoonful of butter, and pour all into the 
saucepan ; mix well, boil fairly, and, having arranged the 
chickens upon a hot dish, pour the gravy over them. 

BUTTERED PARSNIPS. 

Boil tender and scrape. Slice lengthwise. Put three 
tablespoonfuls of butter into a saucepan with pepper, salt 
and a little chopped parsley. When it heats, put in the 
parsnips, and shake and turn until the mixture boils. Lay 
the parsnips in order upon a hot dish, and pour the but- 
ter over them. 

SAVORY POTATOES. 

Pare and cut into squares some raw potatoes. Lay 
in cold water half an hour, put into a saucepan, cover with 
boiling water, slightly salted, and stew half an hour, not sc 
fast as to break them. Then throw off the water and add 
a cupful of sauce made from the gravy of Friday's chick- 
ens, thinned with a little hot water, and strained ; seasoned 
to taste, and again thickened with a tablespoonful of butter 
rolled in flour. Simmer all for ten minutes, and turn into 
a deep dish. 



FIRST WEEK MONDAY. 22$ 

LETTUCE SALAD PLAIN. 

Wash the lettuce ; pull leaf from leaf, and pile over a 
lump of ice in a salad-bowl. Pass the oil and vinegar, 
salt, pepper, and powdered sugar to each person, with the 
lettuce, that he may season for himself. 

PIE-PLANT (APRIL) FOOL. 

i pint of stewed pie plant, rubbed through a colander. 

i tablespoonful of butter. 

i cup of sugar. 

Yolks of four eggs. 

Meringue of the whites. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Juice of half a lemon. 

Put the strained pie-plant into a saucepan ; set it in 
boiling water, and, when hot, beat in the butter, sugar, and 
beaten yolks. Stir two minutes, and turn out to cool. 
This can be done on Saturday. On Sunday, a few min- 
utes' whirl of your egg-beater will give you the meringue. 
Beat in the powdered sugar with a few more, and when 
you have poured the stewed fruit (or vegetable) into a 
glass bowl, pile the meringue (the " fool " ?) on the top. 

COFFEE AND CAKE 
Can be handed with, or after the sweets. 



Jtr0t 



Milk and Bread Soup. 

Larded Mutton Chops. Mashed Potatoes. 

Green Peas. Tomato Catsup. 

Corn-meal Hasty Pudding. 

MILK AND BREAD SOUP. 

Boil down the liquor in which Saturday's calf s head was 
cooked, to less than two quarts. Add a pint of milk pre- 



230 APRIL. 

viously heated, and mixed with three beaten eggs. Thicken 
with two tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in flour, and take 
at once from the fire. Salt and pepper, if needed. Have 
ready in a tureen a cupful of fine, dry crumbs. Pour on 
the soup, stir up for a moment, cover and send to table 
with a plate of grated cheese. 

LARDED MUTTON CHOPS. 

Trim off superfluous fat and skin ; beat flat with the 
broad side of a hatchet, and lard each with four strips of 
fat, salt pork, drawn quite through, so as to project on both 
sides. Put into a saucepan, sprinkle with minced onion, 
pepper, and parsley, and barely cover with weak broth. 
The gravy from yesterday's chickens will do, or any other 
you may chance to have. Put on the saucepan lid, set it 
where it will not boil under an hour, and think no more 
about it until the time is up. Then increase the heat and 
simmer half an hour, or until tender. Take up the chops 
and keep hot. Thicken the gravy with browned flour ; 
add the juice of a lemon, a great spoonful of mushroom 
catsup, a glass of sherry, and boil one minute. Put back 
the chops ; cover, and heat just to a feeble boil. Lay 
the chops in order upon a dish and pour the gravy over 
them. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Open a can of peas ; turn out into a bowl, and let 
alone for an hour. Then, strain off the liquor, put the 
peas into a saucepan, and cover with salted, boiling water. 
Cook twenty minutes ; drain, pepper, stir in a tablespoon- 
ful of butter, and dish. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Prepare as usual, and heap in a covered dish. Wet a 
pretty butter-print and press firmly upon the top. 

CORN-MEAL HASTY PUDDING. 
i heaping cup of Indian meal. 
% cup of flour. 

1 quart of boiling milk. 

2 cups of boiling water. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 



FIRST WEEK TUESDAY. 2$1 

i tablespoonful of brown sugar. 

i teaspoonful of salt. 

teaspoonful mixed cinnamon and mace. 

Wet up meal and flour with the water and stir into the 
boiling milk. Mem. Cook all sorts of milk-puddings 
(boiled) in a farina-kettle. Boil steadily half an hour, 
stirring very often from the bottom. Put in salt, sugar, 
butter, and spice, and cook ten minutes more. Pour into 
a bowl, or other uncovered dish. Eat hot with sugar and 
butter. 



Jir0t 



Bean and Corn Soup. 

Beefsteak Pudding. Stewed Potatoes. 

Mashed Turnips. Cold Slaw. 

Baked Chocolate Custards. 
Fancy Cakes. 



BEAN AND CORN SOUP. 

T quart of dried beans, soaked overnight in soft water, 
i Ib. of streaked salt pork, cut into shreds, 
i Ib. of lean beef also cut up. 
2 stalks of celery, minced, 
i bunch of chopped parsley. 

1 small onion, sliced. 
Pepper and salt. 

T can of corn. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in two of flour. 
5 quarts of water. 

Put on the beans, pork, beef, and all the vegetaljdes 
except the corn, with the water, and boil slowly until the 
beans are thoroughly broken, and the meat in rags. 
Meanwhile, cook the corn tender in just enough boiling 
water to cover it. When done, stir in half the butter and 
flour, salt and pepper, and cover to keep hot while you 



232 APRIL. 

strain the soup, rubbing the beans, onion, and celery to a 
pulp through a colander. Set aside half for to-morrow. 
Return the rest to the fire ; pepper to taste ; add the 
corn with the water in which it was cooked. Simmer 
fifteen minutes ; stir in the rest of the butter and flour ; 
boil up well, and serve. 

BEEFSTEAK PUDDING. 
i quart of prepared flour. 
\ lb. powdered suet. 

1 cup of ice-water. 

2 Ibs. good steak without bone. 
Pepper and salt. 

i tablespoonful of tomato catsup. 

Rub the suet into the flour, salt slightly, and make, with 
the water, into a paste just soft enough to roll out. Roll 
into a sheet nearly half an inch thick. Butter well a 
round bottomed pudding mould ; line with the paste, and 
leave in a cold place while you cut the steak into small 
squares, seasoning with pepper, salt, and catsup. Fill the 
paste-lined mould (or bowl) with this. Cut a piece of 
paste for the top. Cover with this, pinching the two 
sheets of paste tightly together at the edges. Let an 
assistant hold up the bowl while you cover with a stout 
pudding-cloth and tie tightly under the bottom, not strain- 
ing the cloth so strongly -over the top as to hinder the 
paste from swelling. (Flour the cloth before tying it 
over the bowl.) Plunge into a gallon of boiling water, 
and keep it at a fast boil for two hours, filling up from the 
tea-kettle when the water sinks. Turn the bowl bottom 
upward and dip in cold water ; untie the cloth, invert a 
hot dish upon the mould, and turn over carefully, to get 
the pudding out without breaking. This is a favorite 
English dish. 
. . STEWED POTATOES. 

Old potatoes, by this time, need a little management to 
make them acceptable at a season when appetites crave 
fresh vegetables. This is a good way to cook them. 
Pare very thin, and leave in cold water one hour. Put 
on to cook in cold water, bringing it soon to a boil 



FIRST WEEK TUESDAY. 235 

When a fork will run easily into the largest, strain off' the 
water, throw in a handful of salt, and dry, for a minute ; 
on the stove. Then take out the potatoes ; crack each 
one by pressing with a wooden spoon ; put into a deep 
dish, and pour over them a cup of hot milk thickened with 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, cut up in flour ; cooked for 
a minute, then seasoned with pepper, salt, and a table- 
spoonful very finely-minced parsley. Cover the dish ; set 
in boiling water ten minutes, and serve. 

MASHED TURNIPS. 

Boil tender ; press all the water out in a colander, as 
you mash them; return to the fire with a good lump of 
butter, pepper, and salt, and stir until smoking hot. 

COLD SLAW. 

Shred the heart of a white cabbage, and pour over It 
a dressing of two tablespoonfuls of* oil, four of vinegar, one 
teaspoonful each of salt and sugar, and half as much pep- 
per and mustard, beaten up well with the whipped yolks 
of two eggs. The mixture should be quite thick. Use 
an egg-beater in mixing. 

BAKED CHOCOLATE CUSTARDS. 

i quart of milk. 

6 eggs. 

i cup of sugar. 

4 great spoonfuls grated chocolate. 

Vanilla flavoring. 

Scald the milk ; wet up the chocolate and stir in. 
Boil two minutes. Beat the yolks into the sugar, and 
pour the hot mixture slowly upon them, stirring con- 
stantly. Season and fill small cups, which should be set 
ready in a dripping-pan of boiling water. See that there 
is no danger of their boiling over the tops. Cook twenty 
minutes, or until the custards are firm. While they cool 
whip the whites to a stiff meringue with a little powdered 
sugar. When the custards are cold, heap this upon the 
tops. 



234 APRIL. 

FANCY CAKES, 

Macaroons, lad/s-fmgers, or jumbles, should go around 
with the custards. 



fmt tthek. 



" Red Pottage." 

Boiled Cod with Caper Sauce. Scalloped Chicken. 

Mashed Potatoes, Browned. Split Pea Pancakes. 



Queen of Puddings. 

"RED POTTAGE." 

To the bean-stock set by on yesterday add a can of red 
tomatoes, cut small, and two lumps of sugar, and simmer, 
set in boiling water for fear of burning, until they are one 
mass of pulp. Strain through a colander, add seasoning, 
and stir in a generous glass of claret which was poured, 
two hours before, upon a sliced, deep-colored beet, warm 
from the boil. Strain the juice from the beet by squeez- 
ing in a cloth. Put a double-handful of fried bread into 
a tureen, and pour the soup upon it. 

This, if not " that same red pottage " for which poor 
hungry Esau who certainly came honestly, by hereditary 
right, by his love of "good eating" bartered his birth- 
right, is yet very pretty and savory. 

BOILED COD WITH CAPER SAUCE. 

Sew the fish up neatly in a thin cloth and cook in boil- 
ing water, fifteen minutes to the pound. Unwrap, lay 
upon a hot dish, and pour over it the following sauce : 

Put a cupful of boiling water into a saucepan, and stir 
in two tablespoonfuls of butter, cut up in a heaping tea- 
spoonful of flour. Beat in, when thick, the whipped yolk 
of an egg, the juice of a lemon, and twenty-four capers, 
Stir up well, cook half a minute, and take from the fire. 



FIRST WEEK WEDNESDAY. 235 

SCALLOPED CHICKEN. 

Clean, wash, and cut an old fowl to pieces. Put into a 
pot with four quarts of cold water and cook very slowly 
until tender. Take it out, salt and pepper the broth, and 
put by for to-morrow's soup, reserving one cupful for your 
gravy. 

Let the chicken cool, and cut cleanly into pieces an 
inch long by one fourth that width. Put the gravy, well- 
seasoned, over the fire, thicken with a tablespoonful of 
butter, cut up and rolled in flour ; stir in the chicken, and 
just before it boils, take from the fire, and beat in two 
whisked eggs, with a little finely minced parsley. Strew 
the bottom of a bake-dish with crumbs ; pour in the 
chicken ; cover with a deeper coating of bread : crumbs ; 
stick bits of butter over this, and bake, covered, until bub- 
bling hot ; then brown delicately. 

MASHED POTATOES BROWNED. 

Mash soft with milk and butter, season, and round into 
a heap upon a greased pie-dish. Brown in a quick oven ; 
glaze with butter ; slip carefully to a hot dish 

SPLIT PEA PANCAKES. 

Soak a pint of split peas all night. Put on, in the 
morning, in cold water and cook soft. Rub through a 
fine colander. While hot, stir in a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, and season with pepper and salt. When quite cold, 
beat in two eggs, a cupful of milk, and half a cupful of 
flour in which has been sifted twice a quarter teaspoon- 
ful of soda and twice as much cream-of- tartar. Beat hard 
and long, and fry as you would griddle-cakes. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 
*J- cups of sugar. 
5 eggs. 
2 cups of dry bread-crumbs. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

2 teaspoonfuls vanilla, or other extract Colgate's, if 
you can get it. 

i quart of fresh milk. 

cup sweet fruit-jelly, or jam. 



APRIL. 

Cream butter and sugar and whip in the yolks. Soak 
the crumbs in the milk and add next then flavor. Pour 
into a buttered pudding-dish, filling it two-thirds of the 
way to the top, and bake until well " set " in the middle. 
Draw to the oven door, spread quickly with the jelly, and 
this with a meringue of the whites and half a cup of sugar. 
Shut the oven and bake quickly until the meringue begins 
to color. Eat cold with cream. 



Jirst ftJeck. SH)ur0iag. 

Chicken Soup. 

Mayonnaise of Fish. Veal Chops with Tomato Sauce. 

Potato Strips. Macaroni and Eggs 



Jelly Cake Fritters. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

Take the fat from the top of the liquor in which your 
chicken was boiled yesterday, and put on the soup to 
heat. Meanwhile, boil half a cupful of rice tender in a 
pint of salted milk, and when the rice is soft, stir in a 
tablespoonftil of butter worked up in flour to prevent oil- 
ing. When the soup boils up clear, skim and add the 
rice and milk, with two tablespoonfuls of minced parsley. 
Pepper and salt to taste ; simmer ten minutes. Chop up 
three hard-boiled eggs fine ; put into the tureen and pour 
the soup upon them. 

MAYONNAISE OF FISH. 

Yolks of 3 boiled eggs. 
2 tablespoonfuls of best oil. 
2 teaspoonfuls of sugar. 
6 ta.blespoonfuls of vinegar. 

i teaspoonful of salt, and half as much each of pepper 
and made mustard. 



FIRST WEEK THURSDAY. 237 

White of i raw egg. 

2 cupfuls of cold boiled fish (yesterday's cod). 

2 heads of lettuce. 

Rub the yolks smooth with the oil, add sugar, salt, pep- 
per, and mustard, and, when all are mixed, the vinegar, 
a little at a time. Set by, covered, while you cut not 
chop the fish into strips an inch long, and shred the let- 
tuce. Mix these in a bowl. Whip the frothed white of 
egg into the dressing, and pour upon the salad. Stir up 
with a silver fork and put into a glass dish. Garnish with 
rings of the whites of boiled eggs. 

VEAL CHOPS WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 
Trim and flatten the chops. Dip in raw egg, then in 
cracker dust, and fry, rather slowly, in lard or dripping. 
Open a can of tomatoes, and drain off the liquor. Salt 
the rest of the tomatoes and reserve for Friday's soup. 
Put the liquor into a saucepan with a sliced onion, and 
stew ten minutes. Strain out the onion, return the juice 
to the fire ; thicken with a great spoonful of butter, 
worked up in a teaspoonful of corn-starch ; pepper and 
salt. Boil up sharply, and when you have laid the chops 
upon a dish, pour the sauce over them. 

MACARONI WITH EGGS. 

Break half a pound of macaroni into short bits ; cook 
tender in boiling, salted water. Drain well ; put into a 
deep dish and pour over it a cupful of drawn butter in 
which have been stirred two beaten eggs, and two table- 
spoonfuls of grated cheese, with salt and pepper. Loosen 
the macaroni to allow the sauce to penetrate the mass. 
Pass more grated cheese with it. 

POTATO STRIPS. 

Pare, cut in long, even strips ; lay in cold water for 
one hour ; dry by spreading them upon a towel and press 
ing another upon them. Fry to a light brown in salted lard. 
Shake off the fat in a hot colander. Line a deep dish 
with a napkin and put in the strips. They should not 
be crowded in frying, but each should be distinct and fref 
from the rest. 



238 APRIL. 

JELLY-CAKE FRITTERS. 

Cut stale sponge or very plain cup cake into rounds 
with a cake-cutter. Fry to a nice brown in sweet lard. 
Dip eac'h round in boiling milk, to soften it and get rid 
of the grease. Lay upon a hot dish and spread with 
sweet jelly or jam. Pile neatly one upon another. Send 
around hot, sweetened cream to pour over them. 



fvcsl ID felt. 

Graham Soup. 

Sjcalloped Oysters. Stewed Sweetbreads, Brown. 

Moulded Potato. Lettuce. 

Quaking Custard. 



GRAHAM SOUP. 
2 onions. 
2 carrots. 
4 turnips, 
j cabbage. 

A little celery-seed tied in a thin muslin bag. 
The tomatoes set by yesterday. 
cup raw rice. 

J cup of cream (with a pinch of soda added to prevent 
curdling). 

2 lumps of white sugar. 
Pepper, salt, and parsley. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter cut up in flour. 
3 quarts of cold water. 

Chop the cabbage and slice the onions ; pare and 
grate the other vegetables, and put over the fire with the 
rice, the bag of celery-seed, and the water. Stew one 
hour ; add the tomatoes and stew twenty minutes more. 
Rub all to a pulp through a colander ; return to the 
soup-pot, season, and when it boils, stir in the butter. 
Heat the cream to scalding in a separate vessel, and poui 



FIRST WEEK-FRIDAY. 239 

into the tureen. Stir the soup into it by degrees, and 
serve. Pass Boston crackers split and buttered with it. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Butter a pudding-dish, and strew the bottom with 
rolled cracker. Wet this with oyster-liquor and milk, 
slightly warmed. Then lay on oysters, set closely to- 
gether. Sprinkle with pepper, salt, and bits of butter, 
with a few drops of lemon-juice. Another stratum of 
moistened crumbs, and so on, until the dish is full. Let 
the top layer be of crumbs, with bulter dots here and 
there. Bake, covered, half an hour, then brown quickly. 

STEWED SWEETBREADS BROWN. 

4 sweetbreads. 

i cup of gravy (yesterday's broth will do). 

i onion. 

j- cup butter. 

\ pint of mushrooms. 

Pepper and salt. 

Boil the sweetbreads quickly ten minutes are enough 
blanch by throwing them into cold water, then leaving 
them to cool. Slice them lengthwise. Slice, also, the 
onion and mushrooms, and fry brown in half the butter* 
Strain them out, return the fat to the pan, with the rest 
of the butter. Heat, and fry the sweetbreads. When 
the latter are done, put all into a tin pail, with a tight 
top ; add the gravy ; set, covered, in boiling water, and 
stew gently, at the side of the range,- half 'an hour. 
Arrange the sweetbreads upon a hot dish ; thicken the 
gravy with browned flour, and pour over them. Garnish 
with triangles of fried bread. 

MOULDED POTATO. 

Mash soft with butter and hot milk, in which has been 
stirred a beaten egg. Salt and put into a buttered cake 
or pudding mould. Set in a pan of hot water, put on the 
lid of the mould, and keep the water at a hard boil half an 
hour. Dip the mould in cold water, and turn out the 
potatoes upon a flat dish. 



240 APRIL. 

LETTUCE. 
Treat as directed upon last Sunday. 

QUAKING CUSTARD. 

3 cups of milk. 

Yolks of 4 eggs, reserving the whites for the meringue. 

\ package Cooper's gelatine. 

6 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Vanilla flavoring. 

Juice of i lemon for meringue. 

Soak the gelatine two hours in a cup of the cold milk. 
Then add to the rest of the milk, which must be boiling hot, 
and stir until dissolved. Let it stand a few minutes, and 
strain through muslin over the beaten yolks and sugar. 
Put over the fire and stir five minutes, or until you can 
feel it thickening. Stir up well when nearly cold, flavor, 
and let it alone until it congeals around the edges of the 
bowl into which you have poured it ; then stir again, and 
put into a wet mould. Set upon ice, or in cold water 
until firm. Turn it, when you are ready for it, into a 
glass bowl. Have ready a meringue made by whipping 
the whites stiff with three tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, and the lemon-juice. Heap irregularly about the 
base. 



Saturbajj. 



Vermicelli Soup. 

Glazed Ham. Spinach a la Parisienne. 

Chow-chow. Baked Potatoes. 

Rhubarb Tart. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

4 Ibs. knuckle of veal. 

2 Ibs. of coarse, lean beef. 

2 slices of corned ham, or some bones of salt pork. 



FIRST WEEK SATURDAY. 241 

2 onions. 

Thyme and parsley. 

Ib. vermicelli. 

Pepper and salt. 

6 quarts of water. 

Crack the bones into splinters ; cut the meat into 
strips ; slice the onions and chop the herbs. Put on in 
six quarts of water, and cook slowly five hours. Strain, 
pressing meat, etc., hard in the colander. There should 
be about four quarts of soup. Set aside half, when you 
have salted it, for Sunday. Return the rest to the clean 
kettle, season and skim. The vermicelli should have 
been broken small, and boiled in a little hot, salted water, 
three minutes. Strain, without squeezing ; butter and 
pepper ; stir into the soup ; simmer very gently five min- 
utes, and pour out. 

GLAZED HAM. 

Wash a fine corned not smoked ham ; soak all night 
in cold water, and boil about eighteen minutes to the pound. 
There should be plenty of water in the pot. cold at first, 
and brought gradually to a boil. Skim well from time to 
time. Let it get cold in the water in which it was boiled, 
if you can spare the time. We always boil a ham the day 
before it is to be eaten. Take it out ; remove the skin 
carefully, and put the latter back into the cold liquor 
when you have skimmed all the fat which" makes excel- 
lent dripping from the surface of the liquid. Press soft 
paper on the top of the ham, to take off the clinging drops 
of grease. Brush all over with beaten egg. Work a cup 
of rolled cracker into a paste with warm milk, butter, pep- 
per, salt, and a beaten egg. Coat the ham thickly with 
this, and set to brown in a moderate oven. Twist frilled 
paper around the knuckle, and garnish with cresses. 

SPINACH A LA PARISIENNE. 

Pick off the leaves from the stalks ; put on in boiling 
water, a little salt, and cook twenty minutes. Drain hard 
and dry, chop fine, return to the fire with a good piece of 
butter, a teaspoonful of sugar, a little nutmeg, pepper and 
salt, and stir two minutes. Then, beat in two or three 
ii 



242 APRIL. 

tablespoonfuls of cream, or rich milk, and whip as you 
would a custard. It should be smooth to taite and sight, 
Boil up barely and dish. 

CHOW-CHOW 
" Goes well," as the French say, with ham. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Parboil, peel, and lay in a dripping-pan, with a bit of 
butter upon each. As they brown, put on each a tea- 
spoonful of warm milk mixed with butter, salt, and pepper. 
They should be of a light brown. Butter again just before 
you dish them. 

RHUBARB TART. 

Scrape the stalks, cut into small bits, and stew in a very 
little water. When tender, take from the fire and sweeten. 
Have ready some open shells of pastry, freshly baked. 
Fill with the fruit, and sift sugar on top. Eat warm or 
cold never hot. Make more paste than you need, and 
keep raw in a cold place. 



Srconb ttUck. Stmiran. 

Pea and Rice Soup. 

Fillet of Veal with Ham. Potato Balls. 

Stuffed Cabbage. French Beans. 

** ** *** ______ 

Charlotte Cachee. 
Bird's Nest in Jelly. 

PEA AND RICE SOUP. 

Open a can of green peas, and turn them into a bowl 
for an hour. Boil half a cup of rice soft in a cup of milk. 
Skim the stock made yesterday, and heat to a boil before 
adding the peas (drained) and the rice, which should have 
absorbed all the milk. Stew slowly half an hour ; add 
what seasoning you like, and stir in a tablespoonful of 
butter cut up in flour. Simmer five minutes and pour out 



SECOND WEEK SUNDAY. 243 

FILLET OF VEAL WITH HAM. 

Have the fillet rolled and skewered by your butcher. 
Stuff a good force-meat of crumbs and minced fat ham be- 
tween the folds of meat, and lay sliced ham over the top 
and sides, binding it in place with packthread. Put into 
a dripping-pan with a cup of boiling water, and roast 
twelve minutes for each pound. Baste very often. Half 
an hour before you take it up, remove the ham, and lay 
on one side of the pan ; dredge the meat with flour and 
baste abundantly and frequently until well browned. Dish 
with the ham cut into strips and laid next the edge of the 
dish the potato balls close to the meat. Send around 
sweet pickles with it. Strain the gravy, thicken with 
browned 'flour, add pepper and a tablespoonful of tomato 
catsup ; boil up and pour into a boat. 

POTATO BALLS. 

To one cup of mashed potato add a beaten egg, pep- 
per, and salt, and work smooth. Make into balls ; roll 
them in flour. When the veal is half done, skim off the 
fat from the gravy, lay the balls in the ^an, basting, now 
and then, and turning until they are browned all over. 
Drain well, and lay about the dished veal. 

STUFFED CABBAGE. 

Boil a large, firm cabbage, whole, on Saturday, tying 
coarse net over it to keep it in shape, Do not remove the 
net until next day. Then, bind a broad strip of muslin 
about it that it may not crack in the stuffing. Extract 
the stalk with a thin, sharp knife. Without making a wide 
external aperture, " dig out " the heart, until you have 
room for nearly a cupful of force-meat. Chop the bits you 
have taken out, mix with cooked sausage-meat, a very little 
onion, pepper, salt^, a pinch cf thyme and bread-crumbs. 
Stuff the cabbage with this, remove the band, tie up firmly 
again in a net bag, and put it into a pot, covering with the 
liquor in which your ham was boiled yesterday, having 
first again skimmed the latter. Stew gently one hour. 
Take out the cabbage, unbind, with care, and pour a cup 
of drawn butter over it. Strain the useful " pot liquor," 
and put away heedfully. 



244 APRIL. 

FRENCH BEANS. 

Cut into short lengths, when you have poured off the 
can liquor ; cook half an hour in boiling water, salted. 
Drain well, stir up with a tablespoonful of butter, with 
pepper and salt to taste. 

CHARLOTTE CACHE. 
i thick loaf of sponge or plain cup cake. 
2 kinds of fruit-jelly, tart and sweet. 
Whites of 5 eggs. 
i heaping cup of powdered sugar. 
Juice of i lemon. 

Cut the cake into horizontal slices of uniform width. 
Spread each with jelly first, the tart, then the sweet, and 
fit into their 'former places. Ice thickly with a frosting 
made of the whites, sugar, and lemon -juice. Set in a 
sunny window, or slow oven, to harden. The former is 
the better plan. 

BIRD'S NEST IN JELLY. 
i quart of wine jelly not too thin. 
3 cups of white blanc-mange. 
9 empty egg-shells. 

Rind of 2 oranges cut into strips and stewed in water, 
until tender, then in syrup until clear, or, if you have 
it, use preserved orange-peel. 

Empty the eggs carefully through a hole in the small 
end ; wash them out with cold water, and while wet inside 
set firmly in a pan of bran or meal, to keep them steadily 
upright. Fill them with blanc mange. Next morning, fill 
a glass dish two-thirds full with clear jelly, reserving a 
large cupful. So soon as the jelly is firm enough to bear 
their weight, break the shells, with care, from the blanc- 
mange eggs, and pile them upon the jelly. Lay the 
"stiaw" i. e. y the orange-peel over and about them; 
pour the rest of the half congealed jelly over all, and set 
in a very cold place. 

A beautiful variation of this dessert can be made for Eas- 
ter Sunday, by coloring part of the blanc-mange brown with 
chocolate, part pink with currant jelly or cranberry juice, 
part yellow with yolk of egg, and leaving the rest white. 



SECOND WEEK MONDAY. 24$ 



0econb illcek. 



Ham and Egg Soup. 

Veal Pates. Creamed Parsnips. 

Salad of Lettuce and Veal. Mashed Potatoes. 

Corn-Starch Hasty Pudding. 

HAM AND EGG SOUP. 

Skim once more and reheat the liquor in which your 
ham was cooked, and, when boiling, take off the. scum ; 
stir in two tablespoonfuls of corn-starch, wet in a half cup 
of milk. Take out a pint of the soup, and pour slowly, 
stirring well, upon four beaten eggs. Return to the soup, 
with a handful of very finely minced parsley. Stir one 
minute, without letting it boil, and pour upon half a dozen 
split Boston crackers, lining the tureen. 

VEAL PATE'S. 

Chop up the meat left from Sunday's fillet reserving 
some for salad also the crisped ham. Season well, 
warm up the gravy, when you have removed the fat ; mix 
a little oyster liquor with it, and stir in the mince. Heat 
almost to boiling, and set by, covered, where it will keep 
warm. Line /#/e-pans with the paste reserved for this 
purpose from Saturday. If kept in the refrigerator or 
cool cellar, it will be perfectly good. Bake these 
" shells," buttering the tins well ; slip out while hot ; ar- 
range on a warm dish ; fill with the mince, 'sprinkling the 
top of each with fine, dry crumbs ; set upon the upper 
grating of your oven for a minute or so, and send to 
table. 

CREAMED PARSNIPS. 

Boil, scrape, and slice lengthwise. Have ready in a 
saucepan a great spoonful of butter, with pepper and salt. 
Put in the parsnips, shake and turn until very hot ; lay 
the parsnips upon a disli ; add to the sauce three table- 
spoonfuls of cream, or four of milk, in which has been 
rubbed a teaspoonful of rlour. Boil up briskly, and pom 
over the sliced vegetable. 



246 APRIL. 

SALAD OF LETTUCE AND VEAL. 

Cut half a pound of your cold veal into inch-long 
strips, and strew with salt and pepper. Shred a head of 
lettuce, and chop two boiled eggs not too finely. Mix 
these together in a bowl. Prepare a dressing thus : Beat 
the yolks of two eggs (add the whites to the soup) ; salt 
lightly, and beat in, a few drops at a time, four table- 
spoonfuls of oil ; then, as gradually, three teaspoonfuls of 
best vinegar, and half a teaspoonful of celery essence 
Colgate's, if you can get it. The mixture should be thick 
as cream. Pour over the meat and lettuce, toss up with 
a silver -fork, and transfer to a glass dish. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Prepare as often before directed. 

CORN-STARCH HASTY PUDDING. 

i quart of fresh milk. 

3 full tablespoonfuls of corn-starch. 

i tablespoonful of butter. 

i teaspoonful of salt. 

Scald the milk, and stir in the corn-starch, previously 
wet in cold water to .a white liquid. Boil steadily, stir- 
ring constantly, ten minutes. Salt and butter. Let the 
pudding stand three minutes in hot water, after you take 
it from the fire, and turn out into a deep, open dish. 
Cook, of course, in a farina-kettle. 



llkck. 

Melange Soup. 

Ragout of Mutton. Canned Corn Pudding. 

Baked Tomatoes. Damson, or Plum Pickles. 

Peach Batter Pudding. 

MELANGE SOUP. 
i cup of rice (scant). 
3 Ibs. of coarse, lean beef. 



SECOND WEEK- TUESDAY. 2tf 

Some mutton bones. 

2 carrots. 

2 turnips. 

i onion. 

Essence of celery, two teaspoonfuls. 

Pepper and salt. 

4 quarts of cold water. 

i cup of tomato -juice. 

Cut the meat into dice, and put on in the water. Boil 
gently two hours, when add the rice, tomato-juice, and the 
vegetables cut into small squares, and already cooked five 
minutes in hot water, to take off the rank taste. Stew half 
an hour, or until the vegetables and rice are tender, but not 
a pulp ; season ; boil up once and pour out meat, vege- 
tables, and all into the tureen. 

RAGOUT OF MUTTON. 

3 Ibs. of mutton lean and boneless cut into strips 
four inches long by one inch wide. 

i cup of gravy, made of bones, etc. 

A tablespoonful of walnut catsup. 

Browned flour. 

Salt and pepper. 

i slice of lemon. 

Parsley. 

A slice of ham or fat pork, cut small. 

Dripping. 

Fry the mutton to a nice brown, quickly, in the drip- 
ping. Lay in a saucepan, the chopped ham upon it, and 
cover with the gravy, highly seasoned. Stew slowly until 
very tender j take up, and keep hot, while you add the 
lemon to the gravy, with the catsup. Boil five minutes ; 
strain, and return the gravy to the saucepan. Thicken, 
and put in the parsley minced fine. Boil up, and pour 
over thi; meat in a flat dish. Put sippets of fried bread 
around the edge of the dish. 

CANNED CORN PUDDING. 

1 can of corn, drained. 

3 e ggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 



248 APRIL. 

1 tablespoonful of sugar. 
A little salt. 

2 cupfuls of milk. 

i tablespoonful of corn-starch, wet up in the milk, 
Beat eggs, sugar, and butter together ; then add the 
corn. Salt the milk, and dissolve the corn-starch well in 
it, and pour, by degrees, upon the rest, mixing well. 
Bake in a greased bake-dish three-quarters of an hour. 
Keep covered until nearly done ; then, brown. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Drain off the liquor from a can of tomatoes, and put it 
into your' soup. Pare the crust from some slices of 
bread, cut them to fit the bottom of a greased pie-dish, 
and fry to a light brown in dripping. Dip each in boil- 
ing, salted milk, fit to their places in the dish, pour the 
tomatoes upon them, season with pepper, salt, butter, and 
a little sugar. Strew thickly with crumbs, and bake, cov- 
ered, twenty minutes ; then, brown. 

PEACH BATTER PUDDING. 

1 quart of milk. 

2 cups of prepared flour, or enough for soft batter. 
4 beaten eggs. 

i tablespoonful of butter, slightly warmed. 

i saltspoonful of salt. ^ 

i can of peaches, drained. 

Lay the drained peaches in a buttered bake-dish. Salt 
the flour, and sift into a pan. Beat eggs and butter to- 
gether, stir in the milk, and pour, by degrees, into a hole 
in the middle of the flour, until you have a smooth batter. 
Pour upon the peaches, and bake in a brisk oven. Add 
a glass of brandy to the peach syrup ; sweeten to taste ; 
stir in two tablespoonfuls of butter, and set in boiling 
water until the butter is melted. Serve the pudding in 
the bake-dish and eat with this sauce. 



SECOND WEEK WEDNESDAY. 249 

Seomtr 



Eel Soup. 

Boiled Chicken. Potatoes a la Creme. 

Egg Sauce. Rice Croquettes. 

Steamed Corn-Meal Pudding. 



EEL SOUP. 
4 Ibs. of eels. 
i onion. 

12 whole peppers. 
3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

1 cup of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour, rubbed into the buttei. 
2 quarts of water. 

2 slices of toast cut into strips. 

Dripping. 

Clean the eels with care, removing all the fat ; cut 
them into short pieces, and fry for five minutes in dripping. 
Drain, put into a saucepan with the water, onion, and 
pepper, and stew slowly one hour, or until they are ten- 
der, without breaking. Strain through a colander ; pick 
out the eels and cover in a tureen, the bottom of which 
is lined with strips of buttered toast. Strain the soup, 
through a soup-sieve, back into the saucepan ; heat, and 
stir in butter, flour, and parsley. Boil up., add the milk, 
already heated, and pour over the eels and toast. 

BOILED CHICKEN. 

Clean and stuff as for roasting. Bind legs and wings to 
the sides ; tie in a net, and put on in boiling water if 
tender. If doubtful, use cold water, and cook very slowly. 
When the fork-test shows that it is done, unwrap and 
lay on a dish. Salt, pepper, and butter well, and cover 
while preparing the sauce. Take out a cup of the liquor, 
cool, and skim, put on in a saucepan ; put in a table- 
spoonful of butter, rolled in flour, and stir to a boil. Take 
n* 



250 APRIL. 

off, and pour gradually over two beaten eggs. Return to 
the fire, with minced parsley, almost boil, and pour over 
the fowl. 

Salt the liquor and set aside for soup. 

POTATOES A LA CREME. 

Mash thin, whip up with a fork, at first, with butter, 
salt, and milk ; at last, with the frothed white of an egg. 
Heap roughly upon a dish, set upon the upper grating of 
the oven until they begin to color, and serve. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

2 cups cold boiled rice. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

2 beaten eggs. 

i tablespoonful of flour. 

1 raw egg, and some cracker dust. 

2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 

A pinch of grated lemon peel, and the same of nutmeg. 

Lard for frying. 

Work the butter into the rice, then the seasoning, 
lastly, the beaten eggs. Make into long balls, roll in 
egg, then in powdered cracker, and fry, a few at a time, 
in hot lard. 

STEAMED CORN-MEAL PUDDING. 
2 cups Indian meal. 

1 cup of flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls of white sugar. 

2j cups of " loppered " milk, or buttermilk. 

i teaspoonful of soda, sifted twice through the flour. 

i teaspoonful of salt. 

i heaping tablespoonful of butter, melted. 

Put meal, flour, salt, sugar, and soda in a bowl ; mix 
thoroughly ; make a hole in the middle and work in the 
milk and butter. Beat hard and long when all are in ; 
put into a buttered mould with a tight top, and steam one 
hour and a half. If you have no regular steamer, fit the 
mould in the top of a pot of boiling water, taking care it 
does not hang into the water. Lay a thick wet towel, 



SECOND WEEK THURSDAY. 

folded, over the top of the mould to keep in all the heat. 
Or, you may simply boil it. Eat hot, with butter and 
sugar. 



Seconb 



Cream Almond Soup. 

Beefsteak. Chopped Potatoes. 

Chicken Salad. Moulded Spinach. 

Soft Gingerbread and Chocolate. 



CREAM ALMOND. SOUP. 

Broth in which yesterday's chickens were boiled. 
- Ib. of almonds. 

1 cup rich milk half cream, if you can get it. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, rubbed up with two of flour. 
Pepper and salt. 

3 boiled eggs. 

2 blades of mace. 

Skim and heat the soup. Meanwhile, blanch (that is, 
scald and skin) the almonds, and pound in a mortar. Rub 
to a powder the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, and work 
up, with the butter, flour, and almonds, to a paste. When 
the soup boils, pepper and salt, and put in the mace. 
Skim clean, strain out the mace ; return to the pot and 
stir in the paste of almonds, etc. Boil up gently, have 
the milk scalding hot in the tureen, and pour in the soup, 
mixing all up well. Serve at once. 

BEEFSTEAK. 

Flatten with the broad side of a hatchet ; broil over (or 
under) a clear fire upon a buttered gridiron turning 
often. Lay upon a hot dish ; salt, pepper, and butter, 
plentifully. Cover with a hot dish or lid, and let it stand 
five minutes to draw out the juices. 



252 APRIL. 

CHOPPED POTATOES. 

Chop cold boiled potatoes into dice. Put some buttei 
or nice dripping into a frying-pan ; heat, and stir in the 
potatoes. Shake to prevent them from sticking to the 
pan, and when very hot, and glazed with the butter, 
pepper and salt, and turn into a hot colander. Shake 
and toss for a moment, and pour into a deep dish. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Cut the meat from the " carcasses " of yesterday's 
chickens. If you have but a little it may be worth while 
to give John a piquant side-dish. Add an equal quan- 
tity of shred lettuce, when you have cut your chicken into 
narrow strips, two inches long. Mix in a bowl ; prepare 
a dressing according to the receipt given on Monday ; 
pour over it, mix well and lightly ; put into a salad-dish, 
and lay sections of two hard-boiled eggs on top, with a 
chain of sliced whites left from the yolks used for the 
soup* around the outer edge. 

MOULDED SPINACH. 

Boil twenty minutes in hot, salted water ; drain, press- 
ing hard. Chop fine, and put into a saucepan, with a 
good lump of butter, a little pepper, salt and sugar. Beat 
and toss until nearly dry. Press hard into an oblong pan 
or mould. Invert this upon a hot dish. Lay slices of 
egg upon the top. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

i cup of sugar. 

i cup of molasses. 

i cup of butter. 

i cup of sweet milk. 

4 cups of flour. 

4 eggs. 

i tablespoonful mixed ginger and mace. 

i small teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the milk. 
Beat molasses, butter, sugar, and spice to a cream ; whip 
in the beaten yolks, the milk, and lastly, the whites, 
alternately with the flour. Bake in two loaves, or in 
round tins or cups. 



SECOND WEEK FRIDAY. 253 

CHOCOLATE. 

6 tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate. 

2 cups of boiling water and the same of milk. 
Wet the chocolate in cold water ; stir into the hot. 
Boil fifteen minutes ; add the milk, and simmer ten min- 
utes longer. Sweeten, upon the fire, or as you pour it 
out. 



Stconb ID ttk. 



Oyster Soup. 

Fillets of Halibut. Potato Marbles. 

Pate of Sweetbreads. Lima Beans. 

Boston Cream Cakes. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

2 quarts of oysters. 

1 quart of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1 teacupful of water. 

2 eggs. 

Cayenne pepper, salt, mace. 
i tablespoonful of corn-starch. 

Strain the liquor from the oysters into a saucepan, mix- 
ing in the water. Season and spice to taste. When the 
liquor boils, add a quarter of the oysters chopped fine. Boil 
five minutes ; strain through muslin and put back into 
the saucepan. Thicken with the butter rubbed up in a 
tablespoonful of corn-starch. When this boils, drop in 
the whole oysters. Cook until they "ruffle." Mean- 
while, make a sugarless custard by heating and salting the 
milk, adding the beaten eggs, and stirring four minutes 
over the fire. Put some split crackers into the tureen ; 
pour on the custard, then the oyster-soup, stirring all up 
well. Ssnd around oyster crackers and sliced lemon with it, 



254 APRIL. 

FILLETS OF HALIBUT. 

Cut a tolerably thick halibut steak into strips four 
inches long by two wide. Put three tablespoonfuls of 
butter, with pepper and salt, into a saucepan, and simmer 
gently not frying until tender. Then drain, and put 
upon a hot water dish to keep hot. Cut some potatoes 
into small balls. There is a little instrument for this pur- 
pose, like a rounded gouge, which turns them out rapidly 
and neatly. A small iron spoon will give you oval balls. 
Or, if you find it easier, cut the potatoes into equal cubes ; 
lay in cold water half an hour, then cook fifteen minutes 
in boiling water. Drain and dry, and after taking your fish 
from the butter, strain the latter, put in the potatoes, and 
shake over a hot fire until they begin to brown. Drain, 
and lay about the fish-fillets. Add a tablespoonful of 
butter to that in the pan (previously cut up in flour), a 
teaspoonful of anchovy-sauce, and the juice of a lemon, 
with a little minced parsley. Boil once, and pour over 
fish and potatoes. 

PAT OF SWEETBREADS. 

Cut good puff-paste into rounds a quarter of an inch 
thick. Reserve one of these for the bottom of each pate. 
With a smaller cutter take out the centre of three others 
and pile upon this, making a deep well over an inch 
across. Bake quickly, glazing with white of egg when 
nearly done. 

Boil three sweetbreads ten minutes , leave in cold 
water as long ; cut into dice, put into a saucepan with a 
great spoonful of butter, a little pepper and salt, and a few 
spoonfuls of boiling water, and stew twenty minutes. 
Stir, meanwhile, into half a cup of boiling milk a table- 
spoonful of butter, cut up in as much flour.. Add to the 
sweetbreads with a little minced parsley. Boil up. Fill 
the pates, and arrange upon a heated dish. 

LIMA BEANS. 

If dried, soak over night, put on next day in cold 
water, salted, and cook gently until soft. Drain, stir in 
butter and pepper. If you use the canned beans, pu< 
on in boiling water, then proceed as above directed. 



SECOND WEEK SATURDAY. 

BOSTON CREAM CAKES. 
Ib. of butter. 
Ib. of flour. 
6 eggs. 

i pint water warm not scalding. 
Stir the butter into the warm water, and heat slowly to 
a boil. Then put in the flour, boil and stir one minute ; 
empty into a dish to get cold. Beat the eggs light, and 
whip, first the yolks, then the whites, into the cooled 
paste. Drop in great spoonfuls, upon buttered paper, 
not letting them touch each other, and bake, in a quick 
oven, ten minutes. They should puff up to quadruple 
their original size. Pass a sharp knife lightly around 
each, split, and fill with the following mixture : 

1 quart of milk. 

4 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch. 

2 eggs. 

2 cups of sugar. 

i teaspoonful butter. 

Vanilla. 

Heat three cups of milk, and stir in the corn-starch wet 
with the other cupful. Beat the eggs and sugar together, 
and add the boiling mixture, by degrees. Put in the 
butter; mix well and cool before adding the vanilla. 



Soup Verte. 

Baked Mutton Cutlets. Hominy Pudding. 

Potato Cakes. Lettuce. 

Tapioca Pudding. 



SOUP VERTE 

2 Ibs. coarse beef, chopped fin< 
i turqip. 



i onion. 



APRIL. 

Celery-seed tied in a bag. 

1 grated carrot. 

Nearly a quart of spinach leaves. 

2 lumps of sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of butter, rubbed in flour. 
Bunch of parsley. 

Pepper and salt. 

A little of yesterday's pastry, cut into strips like " noo- 
dles." 

2 quarts of cold water. 

Stew the beef with the celery-seed in a quart of water 
for two hours, or until the meat is in rags. Strain hard in 
a bag. Add the other quart of water in which have been 
simmering, for half an hour, the grated carrot, the spinach 
cut small, and the other vegetables sliced. Stew all to- 
gether fifteen minutes ; rub entirely through a colander ; 
return to the fire, season ; add sugar, chopped parsley, 
butter and flour ; boil up and drop in the noodles, one 
by one. Simmer ten minutes, and pour out. It is a very 
good and wholesome soup for the spring-time. 

BAKED MUTTON CUTLETS. 

Trim neatly and put the bits of bone, skin, etc., on in 
a pint of cold water to stew down into gravy. Pour a 
little melted butter upon the cutlets and set over hot 
water, fifteen minutes. Then dip each in egg, next in 
rolled cracker, and lay in your dripping-pan with a very 
little water. Bake rapidly, basting with butter and water. 
When the gravy has boiled down to one cupful, strain into 
a saucepan ; season with pepper, salt, and tomato catsup. 
Thicken with browned flour ; strain into it the gravy from 
the dripping-pan ; lay the chops carefully in a frying-pan, 
as being broad and easily managed. Pour over them the 
gravy, simmer ten minutes ; arrange the chops upon a 
dish, and serve the gravy in a boat. 

HOMINY PUDDING. 

1 cupful cold boiled hominy the small-grained kind, 

2 cups of milk. 

i great spoonful of melted butter. 



SECOND WEEK SATURDAY. 

I teaspoonful of white sugar. 

3 eggs. 

A little salt. 

Work the butter into the hominy ; then the beaten 
yolks and sugar ; then, by degrees, the milk, and when 
all are smoothly mixed, the whites. Bake in a buttered 
pudding-dish. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Make cold mashed potatoes into flat cakes, seasoning 
well, and flouring all over. Fry to a good brown in drip- 
ping. Take up and drain as soon as they are done, and 
serve hot. 

LETTUCE. 

Wash and pile the best parts in a salad-dish. Pass oil, 
vinegar, pepper, salt, and powdered sugar to each one 
and let him season for himself. It is well to do this, once 
in a while, that the children may learn how to prepare 
their own salad. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

i cup of tapioca. 

1 quart of milk. 

5 e gg s - 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and the same of 

sugar. 

Soak the tapioca in cold water three hours ; drain off 
the water, if it be not all absorbed. Soak another hour in 
the warmed milk. Then, beat eggs and sugar up with the 
butter, add the milk and tapioca, stir up well from the 
bottom, after it goes into the oven, and bake in a buttered 
pudding-dish until firm and nicely browned. Eat warm 
with sweet sauce, It is also good cold, eaten with sugar 
and cream. 



258 - APRIL. 

0tmirat). 



Calfs Head Soup. 

Imitation Turtle. Chopped Macaroni. 

Bermuda Potatoes. 

String-Beans and Fried Brains. 

Alice's Pudding. 
Coffee and Whipped Cream. 

CALF'S HEAD SOUP. 

The liquor in which a calf's head has been boiled, 
i Ib. of lean beef cut into dice and fried brown. 
3 sliced and fried onions. 

1 grated carrot. 
Bunch of sweet herbs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed warm into the same 

quantity of browned flour. 

i tablespoon ful of Worcestershire sauce. 

i glass brown sherry. 

Dice of meat from the head. 

Pepper and salt. 

Boil a calf's head on Saturday until the flesh slips from 
the bones. Salt and pepper the meat and set away, with 
the brains also salted and cooked in a cool place. Re- 
turn the bones to the liquor with the vegetables and herbs 
cut small, the fried beef and onions, and boil one hour. 
Season highly and put by in a cool cellar until Sunday. 
Take off the fat, and melt the soup-jelly under it by heat- 
ing all together in a soup-kettle. When hot, strain, and 
set aside half the stock for Monday. Boil up that meant 
for to-day, stir in the butter and flour, and a cupful of dice 
made from one cheek of the cold head. Simmer ten 
minutes, add sauce and wine, and pour out. 

IMITATION TURTLE. 
The cold calf's head, with the tongue, 
i cup of good gravy. If you have nothing else, borrow 
a cupful from your soup-jelly. 



THIRD WEEK SUNDAY. 2$$ 

A dozen force-meat balls, made of the ears chopped 
fine, mixed with bread-crumbs, bound with beaten 
egg and rolled in flour. 

i teaspoonful minced parsley and thyme. 

A little minced onion. 

Browned flour. 

4 hard-boiled eggs. 

Pepper and salt. 

Slice the meat from the head neatly. Heat the gravy 
with seasoning, herbs, and onion, and boil ten minutes. 
Strain ; put the meat into the saucepan ; pour the gravy 
over it, and set all in boiling water fifteen minutes. Put 
over the fire with the sliced eggs and force-meat balls. 
Let them begin to boil, and take off. Lay the meat 
evenly upon a dish, and the eggs upon it, the force-meat 
balls around all, and pour half the gravy over it, sending 
up the rest in a boat. 

CHOPPED MACARONI. 

Boil half a pound of macaroni tender in hot salted water, 
and let it cool. Then chop small. Have ready in a 
saucepan a cupful of hot milk in which an onion has been 
boiled and strained out. Stir into this a great spoon- 
ful of butter, pepper, salt, and two tablespoonfuls of 
grated cheese. When these are well mixed, put in the 
macaroni, and shake not stir until very hot. Turn into 
a deep dish, and grate more cheese on the top. Pass a 
red hot shovel over this until the cheese browns or if 
dry, takes fire. Blow it out, and serve. 

STRING-BEANS AND FRIED BRAINS. 

Cut 'the beans into short lengths and cook in boiling 
water salted. Drain, stir in butter, pepper, and salt, and 
dish. Garnish with the brains, rubbed smooth, seasoned, 
beaten up with a raw egg and a little flour, and fried by 
the spoonful in hot fat. 

BERMUDA POTATOES. 

Put on in boiling water ; cook until a fork will go in 
easily ; dry off, and serve in their skins. 



260 APRIL. 

ALICE'S PUDDING. 

i quart of milk. 

4 eggs. 

i cup dry crumbs. 

cup of strawberry or other sweet jam. 

fa cup of sugar. 

Sprinkle the bottom of a buttered bake-dish wilh 
crumbs. Pour in the jam, and cover this with the rest of 
the crumbs, wet with a little milk. Scald the remainder 
of the milk, and pour, gradually, upon the beaten eggs 
and sugar. Heat and stir three minutes ; put it, spoonful 
by spoonful, upon the crumbs, so as not to displace them, 
and when all is in, bake until well set and slightly colored 
by the. heat. Eat cold with cream, if you can get it. 

COFFEE AND WHIPPED CREAM. 

Whip a little cream in a syllabub churn, and lay a spoon- 
ful upon the surface of each cup of made coffee. 



I)iru 111 ttk. fHonuati. 

A Good White Soup. 

Ham and Eggs. Succotash. 

Oyster Salad. Stewed Potatoes. 



Plain Macaroni Pudding. 

A GOOD WHITE SOUP. 

Skim the stock set aside yesterday ; heat and season, 
then strain through thin muslin, and return to the fire. 
Skim again ; add a great spoonful of butter, cut up in 
flour, and boil up. Have ready in your tureen a cupful 
of hot milk, in which has been soaked half a cupful of 
bread-crumbs ; beat into these the whites of two eggs ; 
pour in the soup, by degrees, stirring in well, and serve. 



THIRD WEEK MONDAY. 26 1 

HAM AND EGGS. 

Cut slices of ham of equal size ; cover with boiling 
water, and cook ten minutes, then let them get cold. 
Cut off the rind and fry in their own fat, until browned. 
Lay upon a hot dish ; strain the fat, returning it to the 
pan with a little butter, and when hot break in the eggs. 
Fry upon one side ; trim off the ragged edges, and lay 
upon the ham. Dust with pepper, and serve. 

x 
SUCCOTASH. 

Open a can of succotash ; drain off the liquor, cut the 
beans into short lengths, and put on in boiling water, 
salted. Cook twenty -five minutes ; drain off the water, 
and add as much cold milk. When this is hot, stir in a 
great spoonful of butter, cut up in flour ; pepper and salt, 
cook three minutes more and serve. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Cut the oysters into thirds ; pull the hearts out of nice 
lettuce heads and shred up one-third as much as you have 
oysters. Make a dressing in the proportion of two table- 
spoonfuls of best oil to four of vinegar ; one teaspoon- 
ful of salt and the same of sugar ; half as much pepper, 
and made mustard. Rub all up well, and pour over 
oysters and lettuce just before serving. 

STEWED POTATOES. 

Cut into small squares and put on in boiling water, 
slightly salted. When tender, but not broken, throw off 
half the water, and proceed as with the succotash, only 
adding a teaspoonful of finely minced parsley. 

PLAIN MACARONI PUDDING. 

J Ib. macaroni, broken in pieces an inch long, boiled 
tender (or about' twenty minutes) in hot, salted 
. water, 
i tablespoonful of butter. 

1 large cup of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 



262 APRIL. 

2 eggs. 

Grated peel of half a lemon. 

A little cinnamon and salt. 

When the macaroni is tender, dra'n off the water and 
add the salt and butter. Heat the milk and pour over 
the beaten eggs, sugar and flavoring. Mix with the maca- 
roni, and bake in a buttered pudding-dish, covered, for 
half an hour \ then brown. Eat with butter and sugar. 



l)trir 



Pot-au-feu. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. Potatoes a la Lyonnaise. 

Stewed Pie-Plant. Caper Sauce. 



Peach Leche Crema. 

POT- AU- FEU. 

3 Ibs. of lean beef, cut into dice. 

1 sliced and fried onion. 

2 carrots, cut into small squares. 
2 turnips, ditto. 

1 bunch of sweet herbs, minced. 

2 potatoes, parboiled and sliced. e 
Pepper and salt. 

3 quarts of water. 

Put on the beef in two quarts of water and cook slowly 
until it is tender, and the water reduced to one quart. 
Put the vegetables except the potatoes on in boiling 
water. Cook ten minutes ; throw away the water and 
cover with a quart of cold. Add the potatoes ; pepper 
and salt and cook gently half an hour. Put in the meat 
and the quart of gravy and simmer ten minutes more, 
with the minced herbs. Then pour out. This is only a 
family soup, but is a good one when properly cooked. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Do not have the shank too long, nor cut it so short as 
to make the leg " chunky." The meat will look cleanei 



THIRD WEEK TUESDAY. 263 

and less sodden if you boil it in a piece of mosquito net 
or tarlatan, sewed about it somewhat tightly. Put on in 
boiling salted water, plenty of it, and cook fifteen minutes 
to the pound. Unwrap and lay upon a hot dish. Butter 
all over, and sprinkle lightly with salt. Twist frilled pa- 
per about the end of the shank. 

CAPER SAUCE.. 

Take out a cupful of the liquor in which the mutton 
was boiled (putting away the rest for soup), strain, heat, 
and skim ; stir in two tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed in 
a teaspoonful of flour ; pepper, boil up, pour upon a 
beaten egg ; return to the fire and stir for a minute ; add 
two dozen capers or nasturtium-seed, and pour into a 
sauce-boat. Pass, of course, with the mutton. 

POTATOES A LA LYONNAISE. 

Parboil the potatoes, and cut into dice. Chop a small 
onion and mince a tablespoonful of parsley. Put two 
tablespoonfuls of butter or excellent dripping into a fry- 
ing-pan, and when hot, stir in potatoes, onion, and parsley. 
Shake and toss until all are hissing hot, but do not let 
them brown. Shake off the fat in a hot colander, and 
serve in a deep dish. 

STEWED PIE-PLANT. 

Skin and wash the stalks, and cut into half inch lengths. 
Stew tender in a little water., with a handful of seedless 
raisins. Sweeten to taste. Eat cold with meat. 

PEACH LECHE CREMA. 

1 can of peaches. 

Yolks of 3 eggs and whites of fqur. 

3 cups of milk. 

J cup of powdered sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch. 

i tablespoonful of melted butter. 

Scald the milk ; stir in the corn -starch wet with cold 
milk, and cook, still stirring, until it begins to thicken. 
Take from the fire, and beat in the butter, then the 



264 APRIL. 

whipped yolks, two whites and sugar. Whisk to a 
light cream. Drain the syrup from the peaches ; lay 
them in the bottom of a bake-dish, and pour the mixture 
gently over them. Bake in a quick oven ten minutes, 
then spread with a meringue of four whites whisked stiff 
with a little sugar. Shut up in the oven until this is 
slightly tinged. Eat warm with sauce, or cold with cream. 



l)trir tthck. 



Scotch Broth. 

Mutton Pie. Stewed Tomatoes. 

Cabbage Salad. Mashed Potatoes. 



Lemon Puffs. 

SCOTCH BROTH. 

Take the fat from the top of the broth in which the 
mutton was boiled yesterday. Chop up an onion, a good 
sized one, and put in it. Boil half an hour and strain. 
Add a cup of barley, previously soaked two hours in cold 
water, and cook for two hours more. Chop up some 
parsley fine and add. When the barley is very soft, and 
the broth has boiled down one-half, pour out and serve, 
having peppered to taste. 

MUTTON PIE. 

Cut the meat from yesterday's mutton, into strips two 
inches long by half an inch wide. Chop a pickled cu- 
cumber to pieces, also two boiled eggs. Put a layer of 
meat in a bafee-dish, strew with pickle and egg ; salt and 
pepper and drop, pretty thickly, over it, bits of butter 
rolled in flour. Go on in this order, until your meat is 
used up, when pour in a cup of oyster-liquor or cold 
water. Cover with a good crust, ornamented around the 
edges ; make a slit in the middle, and bake one hour. 

N. B. The bare bones will " help out " to-morrow's 
soup. 



THIRD WEEK WEDNESDAY. 26$ 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Receipts for these, as also for plain mashed potatoes, 
have been given so lately that repetition here is needless. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

i small, firm white cabbage, shred fine. 

i cup of boiling milk. 

i smaller cup of vinegar, also hot. 

1 tablespoonful of butter, and the same of sugar. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 

i teaspoonful essence of celery. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

When the vinegar boils, put in butter, sugar, and sea- 
soning. Boil, and add the shred cabbage. When this is 
scalding hot, take from the fire. Pour the hot milk upon 
the eggs, and cook one minute, stirring constantly. Turn 
the cabbage into a bowl, pour over it the smoking cus- 
tard, toss up and mix well, and set it, covered, in ice-cold 
water. Eat perfectly cold. 

LEMON PUFFS. 

i cup of prepared flour. 

J- cup of powdered sugar. 

t tablespoonful of butter. 

3 eggs whites and yolks beaten separately. 

Grated peel of r lemon. 

3 tablespoonfuls of milk. 

A little salt. 

Cream butter and sugar, whip in the yolks, milk, and 
lemon-peel ; then, the whisked whites and flour, alter- 
nately. Bake in small, buttered tins, or in "gem" pans. 
Turn out while hot, and eat with sweet sauce. 

12 



266 APRIL. 



<ftl)tn:0Irag 

Soup a la Bonne Femme. 
Corned Beef. Mashed Turnips. 

Scalloped Cauliflower. Fried Potatoes. 

Orange Cream Pie. 

SOUP A LA BONNE FEMME. 

Bones of cold mutton, cracked. 

2 Ibs. of lean veal from the knuckle, bones broken, and 
. meat cut up. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, rubbed in flour. 
cup of raw rice. 

\ cup of milk, 
i onion, chopped. 

3 eggs. 

Minced parsley. 
Salt and pepper. 
3 quarts of water. 

Put bones, meat, onion, and rice on in the cold water, 
and cook slowly three hours. Strain, rubbing the rice 
and onion to a pulp, through a coarse sieve. Season, 
boil up, skim, and stir in parsley and butter. Heat the 
milk, pour upon the beaten eggs, and add to the soup, 
stirring in well. Let it almost boil, and take from the 
fire. Pour out, and serve at once. 

CORNED BEEF. 

Wash the beef well, put on in plenty of boiling water, 
and cook at least eighteen minutes to the pound, if the 
piece be tolerably thick. Put away the liquor for to-mor- 
row. Dish the meat. Make a sauce as directed on 
Tuesday, foi mutton, but substituting pickled cucumber, 
chopped, and a very little pickled onion, for the capers. 
Serve in a boat. 

MASHED TURNIPS. 

At this season the yellow turnips are best. Put on, 
when you have pared and quartered them, in cold water, 



THIRD WEEK THURSDAY. 267 

salted, and cook tender. Mash, and presr out the water ; 
stir in a good piece of butter ; pepper an i salt to taste, 
and dish very hot. 

SCALLOPED CAULIFLOWER. 

The cauliflowers in market now are less nice than those 
to be had earlier, or later in the year. Still, you can get 
them, now and then. Boil, tied in a net, in hot water. 
Clip into neat clusters, and set, stems downward, in a 
buttered bake-dish. Beat up a cupful of bread-crumbs to 
a soft paste with two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and 
four of milk. Season with pepper and suit, and whip in 
a raw egg. Butter, salt, and pepper the cauliflower, and 
pour the mixture over it. Cover closely, and bake ten 
minutes, or until very hot, in a brisk oven; then brown 
lightly and rapidly. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Wash, pare, and slice round, very thin. Leave in cold 
water one hour ; wipe, by spreading upon one towel, and 
pressing another upon it, and fry, not too many at a time, 
in boiling lard, salted. Cook quickly, take out with a 
wire spoon, and shake in a hot colander. Serve in a 
deep dish lined with a hot napkin. 

ORANGE CREAM PIE. 

i teacup of powdered sugar. 

i tablespoonful of butter. 

i egg. 

i orange juice and half the .grated peel soaked to- 
gether, for half an hour, then squeezed in a muslin 
bag. 

i teacupful boiling water. 

i tablespoonful of corn-starch, dissolved in cold water. 

Pulp of half an orange. 

Stir the corn-starch into the water ; cream the butter 
and sugar, and pour over them the hot mixture. Cool, 
and add the orange and beaten egg. Take the inner rind 
from the half-orange, remove the seeds, and chop very 
fine. Bake in open shells. 



268 APRIL 



tDeek. Jrfoa. 



Peas Porridge Hot." 

Baked Shad. Miroton of Beef. 

Spinach with Eggs. Cresses. 



Ambushed Trifle. 

"PEAS PORRIDGE HOT." 

Soak a quart of split peas all night. In the rr drning 
put on in the liquor from your corned beef, with a sliced 
onion and a little celery-seed, tied in thin muslin. The 
liquor should be skimmed and poured cold upon the peas 
Cook slowly, until these are soft enough to pulp through 
a colander. Rub them ; if the soup be very salt, add 
hot water ; pepper to taste ; boil up, and stir in a cup of 
hot milk, in which have been dissolved two tablespoonfuls 
of corn-starch, wet up in water, and a tablespoonful of 
butter. Add minced parsley ; simmer two minutes ; 
have a double handful of fried bread dice in the tureen, 
and pour on the soup. 

BAKED SHAD. 

Clean, wash, and wipe a large ^shad. Stuff with a dress- 
ing of bread-crumbs, butter, salt, and pepper, wet with 
milk, and sew up carefully with fine cotton. Lay in the 
dripping-pan ; pour over it a cupful of hot water, and 
bake one hour, covered, except when you are basting it 
with butter and water. Put into a hot dish, and keep 
warm, while you add .to the gravy a teaspoonful of an- 
chovy sauce, the juice of a lemon, a tablespoonful of 
browned flour, wet up with cold water, and pepper. Boil 
up well, and serve in a boat. Garnish the fish with sliced 
lemon, and pass the cress-salad with it. 

MIROTON OF BEEF. 

Chop your cold corned beef fine. Have ready in a 
saucepan a cup of drawi^ butte.;, into which stir a teaspoon- 



THIRD WEEKFRIDAY. 269 

ful of minced onion, the yolk of a boiled egg, pounded, and 
a beaten raw egg. Boil gently three minutes, and add the 
mince of beef. Stir until hot, but not boiling ; pour into 
a bake-dish ; spread with a cover of mashed potatoes, 
into which have been worked half a cup of milk and a 
great spoonful of butter. Brown in a good oven, and 
glaze with butter, when it begins to color well. Serve in 
the dish. It is very good. 

CRESSES. 

Pick over, wash, and cut into small pieces. Pile in a 
salad-bowl, and season with vinegar, salt, pepper, and a 
little sugar, mixing in well. 

SPINACH WITH EGGS. 

Cut the leaves from the stems, and cook twenty min- 
utes in boiling, salted water. Drain and chop very fine 
upon a board or chopping-tray. Return to the fire with a 
good spoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of sugar ; salt and 
pepper to taste. Heat, stirring constantly and beat in the 
yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, rubbed to a fine powder. 
When well mixed, turn the spinach into a deep dish and 
garnish with a chain of sliced whites laid on top. 

AN AMBUSHED TRIFLE. 

A round, stale sponge-cake. 

i pint of milk. 

i teaspoonful of corn-starch. 

1 cup of sweet jelly or jam. 
3 eggs. 

Vanilla flavoring. 

2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 
A little salt. 

Cut the top carefully from the cake in one piece. 
Scoop out the inside of the loaf, leaving side-walls and 
bottom an inch thick. Coat these with the jelly. Heat 
the milk ; beat eggs and sugar, with the cake-crumbs, and 
pour on the hot milk. Stir over the fire until thick, and 
add the corn-starch wet up with cold milk. Cook one 
minute and turn out. When cold, flavor and fill the cake 



2/0 APRIL. 

with it. Coat the inside of the lid with jelly, and fit into 
its place ; brush the whole cake with white of egg, sift 
powdered sugar over it, and set in a cool, dry place until 
wanted. 



Sljirb 

Clam Soup. 

Beefsteak. Scalloped Tomatoes and Corn. 

Whole Bermuda Potatoes. Made Mustard. 

Boiled Custards. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Strain the liquor from the clams, add one-third as much 
water, bring to a slow boil, skim and strain. Then put 
in the clams, chopped, with pepper and salt. Stew half 
an hour, and stir in two great spoonfuls of butter rolled in 
cracker-dust, one teaspoonful essence of celery (Colgate's), 
and the juice of a lemon. Simmer ten minutes, have 
ready in your tureen a cup of scalding milk, slightly salted. 
Pour upon this the soup, stirring up well. 

BEEFSTEAK. 

Cook according to receipt given on Thursday of Sec- 
ond Week in this month. If you use the "Vertical 
Broiler," manufactured by the Dover Stamping Company, 
88 North Street, Boston, you will save every drop of gravy, 
and be spared the trouble of watching and turning the 
steak. : See FAMILIAR TALK, " Touching Saucepans." 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES AND CORN. 

Open a can of corn ; drain, and cook twenty minutes 
in boiling water, salted. Throw off the water ; cover the 
bottom of a bake-dish with fine crumbs ; put in a layer of 
corn, butter, pepper, and salt ; upon this a layer of canned 
tomatoes; butter and pepper, and sprinkle with a little 



FOURTH WEEK SUNDAY. 

sugar. Go on in this order until the dish is full. Cover 
with bread-crumbs ; stick bits of butter over them, and 
bake, covered, half an hour. Brown and serve in the 
dish. 

WHOLE BERMUDA POTATOES. 

Pick out those of uniform size ; put on in boiling water, 
salted slightly, and ccok until a fork will pierce the largest. 
Turn off the water; set back on the range to "dry off;" 
lay a napkin, heated and neatly folded, upon a dish. Pare 
the potatoes quickly by pulling off their skins, and heap 
upon the napkin. 

BOILED CUSTARDS. 

1 quart of milk. 

Yolks of 5 eggsj and the whites of two reserving three 

for the fneringue. 
6 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls bitter almond or vanilla flavoring. 
Heat the milk ; beat yolks and two whites light, and 

pour the milk upon them. Return to the fire and cook, 
stirring all the while, until the custard begins to thicken. 
Let it cool. Season and put into glass cups. Whip the 
whites to a meringue with a little powdered sugar, and 
heap upon the top of each. 



Jotnrtl) fthek. Stmirag. 

Ox Head Soup. 
Roast Breast of Mutton. Hominy Fritters. 

Currant Jelly.. Lettuce Salad. 

Browned Potatoes. 

Pine Apple Ambrosia. 

Ox HEAD SOL P. 

1 ox head, well cleaned. 

2 grated carrots. 



2/2 APRIL. 

2 turnips. 

2 onions. 

i dozen whola allspice, and the same of whole peppers. 

i bunch sweet herbs, chopped. 

Browned flour. 

Pepper and salt. 

i tablespoon ful Worcestershire Sauce. 

i glass of sherry. 

5 quarts of water. 

Small bag of celery seed. 

Soak the head two hours in cold, salted water. Wash 
well, and put on in cold water, with the vegetables and herbs. 
Cover, bring slowly to a boil, and cook four hours. Then, 
take out the meat of the head ; salt well, and set away in 
a cool place. Salt and pepper the soup, and set by in 
an earthenware crock, leaving in the bones and vegetables. 
Do this on Saturday. 

On Sunday, take off the fat and heat the soup. Strain, 
first through a colander, rubbing the vegetables to a pulp, 
then through a sieve, back into the kettle. Cut the meat 
into dice and drop in ; season with sauce and wine, and 
having let it barely boil, pour out. 

There should be enough for two days. In setting aside 
Monday's portion, make an equal distribution of meat and 
broth. 

ROAST BREAST OF MUTTON. 

Sew up in a thin cloth and boil ten minutes to the 
pound. (Take care of the broth for gravy.) When un- 
wrapped, lay in a dripping-pan, wash well with butter, 
dredge with flour, and set in the oven half an hour, bast- 
ing freely with its own broth, and lastly with butter. A few 
minutes before taking it up, strew thickly with crumbs 
fine and dry pepper these, and drop dots of butter over 
it. Brown, and dish. Garnish with sliced beet- root and 
cresses. 

HOMINY FRITTERS. 

2 cups cold boiled hominy small-grained. 

1 tablespoonful of sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 
2 beaten eggs. 



FOURTH WEEK SUNDAY. 273 

\ teaspoonful soda dissolved in vinegar. 

A little salt. 

Rub the sugar and salt into the hominy; wet with the 
milk, and when smooth beat in the whipped eggs. Drop 
by the spoonful into boiling fat, and fry quickly. Drain 
in a hot colander. Everything depends upon beating and 
cooking. The soda should go in last of all the ingredients, 
and be whipped in hard. 

BROWNED POTATOES. 

Mash soft, with butter and milk; mound smoothly 
upon a greased plate and brown in a quick oven, glazing 
with butter. Slip to a hot flat dish. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Pull out the hearts and pick them apart. Heap loosely 
in a salad-bowl, and season, first sprinkling lightly with 
powdered sugar with oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Toss 
up with a silver fork ; lay cold-boiled eggs, cut into sixths, 
lengthwise, upon the top. 

PINE-APPLE AMBROSIA. 

i pine-apple, pared and cut into small squares. 

i cocoanut, pared and grated. 

i cup powdered sugar. 

i large glass good sherry or Marsala. 
Put a layer of pineapple in a glass-bowl ; strew with 
sugar, and wet with wine. Next, put a stratum of cocoa- 
nut, and sprinkle more sparsely with sugar. More pine- 
apple, sugar, and wine, and continue to add layers in the 
order given. The top coating must be of cocoanut. Eat 
soon, or the pineapple will wither in the wine and become 
to^gh. Pass light cake with it. 
12* 



274 APRIL. 



Jburtl) ttkek. Ulonftag. 

Next Day Soup. 

Pilau of Mutton. Green Peas 

Cheese Fondu. Sweet Pickles. 

Farina Hasty Pudding with Sauce. 

NEXT DAY SOUP. 

Take the fat from the top of the cold soup set by on 
Sunday ; heat it almost to the boil, and pour out. It is 
better for the second and third warming up. Save every 
drop that is left over. 

PILAU OF MUTTON. 

Cut your cold roast into neat strips an inch long. 
Make a gravy of the cracked bones and skin, hard bits, 
etc., and a pint of water. While it is stewing down one- 
half, skim the liquor in which the meat was parboiled ; 
put it over the fire with a cup of washed rice, and cook 
the latter tender. When there is but one cup of gravy 
left upon the bones, etc., strain, season highly with pepper, 
salt, and nearly a teaspoonful of curry powder. Chop, 
also, a quarter of a pickled onion, and mix in. Roll a 
tablespoonful of butter in a heaping spoonful of browned 
flour, and when the gravy is hot stir it in ; lastly, put in 
the mutton, and when nearly on the boil, draw aside. 
Drain the rice, and season well. Pile the meat upon a 
hot dish, and make a fence of rice about it. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Open a can of green peas, drain, and cook twenty 
minutes in boiling water, a little salt. Strain off the 
water ; dish the peas, stir in butter, pepper, ?.nd if needed, 
salt. 

CHEESE FONDU. 

1 cup of bread-crumbs, very dry. 

2 cups of fresh milk. 



FOURTH WEEK TUESDAY. 2?$ 

Ib. of dry cheese, grated. 

3 eggs- 

i tablespoonful of butter. 

Pepper and salt. 

A pinch of soda dissolved in boiling water, and stirred 
into the milk. 

Soak the crumbs in the milk ; beat in the eggs, butter, 
seasoning, and at last, the cheese. Butter a bake-dish ; 
pour in the fondu; cover with crumbs, and bake in a 
brisk oven. Serve at once, as it soon falls. 

FARINA HASTY PUDDING WITH SAUCE. 

i quart of milk. 

4 tablespoonfuls of farina. 

i tablespoonful of butter. 

i teaspoonful of salt. 

Heat the milk, when the farina has soaked two hours 
in just enough water to cover it, and has absorbed it all. 
Salt the milk and stir in the farina. Boil half an hour, 
steadily stirring now and then, from the bottom. Add 
the butter ; and let the pudding stand in hot water three 
minutes after you cease to stir, before turning out into an 
open, deep dish. Make a good sauce of butter, sugar, 
and nutmeg, and eat with it. 



Jburtl) ttJeek. 



Crust Soup. 

Mock Pigeons with Mushroom Sauce. Baked Potatoes. 

Cabbage Sprouts and Eggs. Mixed Pickles. 

Bread and Raisin Pudding. 

CRUST SOUP. 

1 quart of dry crusts, the more stale the better, if 

sweet. 

2 cups of yesterday's soup. 



276 APRIL. 

2 cups of boiling water. 

1 onion. 

3 great spoonfuls of butter. 

2 eggs. 

Salt and pepper. 

A little chopped parsley. 

Pour the boiling water upon the crusts, which should be 
broken small. Set in a pot of boiling water for one hour, 
with a small onion minced fine, and the seasoning. 
Meanwhile skim the cold soup (or any good gravy) and 
heat to a boil. At the end of the hour, add the butter to 
the bread, and cover ten minutes longer. Then turn 
into the soup ; beat up the bread and stir in the parsley. 
Simmer fifteen minutes, beat the eggs light, pour a little 
of the soup upon them to heat them before stirring them 
well into the contents of the kettle. Take from the fire 
at once, lest the eggs should curdle. 

MOCK PIGEONS WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

2 fillets of veal. 

Force-meat of crumbs and chopped salt pork, well sea- 
soned. 

\ cup of mushrooms and a little minced onion. 

i sweetbread. 

12 oysters. 

Pepper and salt. 

The fillets must be boneless. Sprinkle with pepper 
and spread with force-meat. Roll up closely and wind 
with packthread. Put into a dripping-pan with enough 
water to half cover them. Invert a pan over them, and 
bake from forty-five minutes to one hour in proportion to 
their size. Boil, then blanch the sweetbread, by drop- 
ping it into cold water. Cut into dice, put into a cup of 
oyster liquor with a spoonful of butter, and simmer fifteen 
minutes. Baste the " pigeons " four times twice with but- 
ter, and when tender, lay on a hot dish, clip and care- 
fully withdraw the threads, and cover to keep warm. 
Add the gravy from the dripping-pan to the sweetbread ; 
thicken with browned flour ; boil once ; put in the oys- 
ters and mushrooms, chopped, and stew five minutes quite 



FOURTH WEEK TUESDAY. 2/7 

fast. Pour a few large spoonfuls, taking up the thickest 
part, over the " pigeons ; " send the rest up in a sauce- 
boat. You will find this a very nice dish. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Parboil and skin while hot. Lay in a pan and anoint 
with beef-dripping or butter, from time to time, as they 
brown. Drain off the grease and serve hot, after pepper- 
ing and salting. 

CABBAGE SPROUTS AND EGGS. 

Boil the sprouts tender, drain well, pepper and salt. 
Lay some slices of crustless toast in a deep dish, and 
soak in boiling water ; drain them and cover with a soft 
omelette made of three or four eggs, " stirred " up in a 
pan in which has been heated a spoonful of butter. Lay 
the sprouts upon this, buffer well and eat hot. 

BREAD AND RAISIN PUDDING. 

i quart of milk. 

i loaf of stale light bread, pared and sliced. 

Butter to spread the bread. 

4 eggs. 

cup of sugar. 

f Ib. of raisins, seeded and cut into thirds. 
Butter the bread. Make a raw custard of eggs, sugar 
and milk. Line the bottom of a buttered dish with the 
bread. Wet with custard; strew with raisins, and lay 
in more bread. Go on in this order until the dish is full. 
The uppermost layer should be of bread, well buttered 
and soaked. Cover the dish ; set in boiling water, and 
bake one hour, keeping the water at a fast boil. Turn 
out carefully, and pour hot, sweet sauce over it. The 
liquor from brandied peaches, made hot, with a little but 
ler, makes a delicious sauce for it. 



2/8 APRIL. 

Jbuvtl) tthek. 

Bouillon of Beef. 
Tomato Omelette with Cheese. Savory Rice Pudding. 

Corn-Starch Custard Pie. 

BOUILLON OF BEEF. 

6 Ibs. of brisket or round of beef, all in one piece, 
4 turnips. 

3 carrots. 

2 Bermuda onions. 

A good handful of cabbage sprouts. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, cut up in flour. 

Bunch of sweet herbs. 

i teaspoonful of made mustard. 

4 quarts of water. 

Cover the beef with the water and cook slowly one 
hour. Meanwhile, cut the vegetables into long strips 
not too thin leaving the sprouts whole. Cook them all 
in boiling, salted water twenty minutes. Throw this 
water away, and at the end of the hour, skim the soup 
well, and put in the vegetables. Stew all very slowly two 
hours longer. There must never be a fast boil. Take 
out the beef ; put into a dripping-pan ; pour a cup of the 
soup (strained), seasoned well with pepper, salt, and mus- 
tard, over it ; dredge thickly with flour and brown in a 
good oven, basting every few minutes. Take half the 
vegetables from the pot and keep hot. Rub the rest 
through a colander ; season the soup and pulp, add the 
herbs and return to the saucepan ; boil sharply five min- 
utes ; stir in butter and flour ; simmer five minutes, and 
the soup is ready for the tureen. Season the reserved 
vegetables, and having dished your beef, lay them, very 
hot, around it. Serve with each slice. 

TOMATO OMELETTE WITH CHEESE. 
Break six eggs into a bowl and give about a dozen 
whirls of the beater, just enough to mingle whites and 
yolks well. Have ready in a frying-pan a great spoonful 



FOURTH WEEK WEDNESDAY. 279 

of butter. When it begins to hiss, run it quickly over the 
bottom of the pan, and pour in your eggs. Take the 
handle of the pan in one hand, a cake-turner in the other, 
and with the latter, loosen all around the edges of the 
omelette, while with the other hand you shake the pan to 
keep the eggs free from the bottom. In about three min- 
utes, the eggs should be " set," but still soft. Let an as- 
sistant lay upon one-half of the omelette five or six slices 
of canned tomatoes. Fold the other half over this by a 
dexterous motion of the turner : invert a hot dish upoL 
the pan ; upset the latter, and dish the omelette. Have 
at hand a handful of dry cheese, grated and seasoned with 
pepper and salt. Strew the omelette thickly, singe with 
a red-hot shovel held very close to the cheese, and serve 
hot. 

N. B. Teach your cook the art of omelette-making at 
breakfasts, and she will soon be capable of managing this 
very delightful entree. 

SAVORY RICE PUDDING. 
i teacupful of raw rice, 
i small onion, 
i cup of weak broth. Steal from your soup before the 

vegetables go in, .if you have no other. 
r cup of milk. 

1 egg- 
Nearly a cupful of chopped cold meat left from yes- 
terday. 

Pepper and salt. 

Boil the rice with the whole onion in the broth, adding 
more, or hot water, as it swells. When the rice is soft 
and has soaked up the broth, remove the onion and add a 
raw custard made of the milk, egg, pepper, and salt. Mix 
well with the meat, put into a greased mould, set in a pan 
of boiling water, and bake, covered, until firm. Keep the 
water boiling hard. About forty-five minutes should be 
ample time. Turn out and eat with meat. 

CORN-STARCH CUSTARD PIE. 
6 eggs. 
3 pints of milk. 



280 APRIL. 

6 tablespoonfuls of white sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch. 

2 teaspoonfuls essence bitter almonds. 
Boil the milk, stir in the corn-starch wet with milk, 
Boil one minute and cool. When cold, beat in the sugar, 
the yolks and two whites. Flavor, and bake in open 
shells of paste. When the custard is " set," draw to the 
door of the oven, and cover with a meringue made of the 
reserved whites whipped stiff with two tablespoonfuls of 
white sugar and a teaspoonful of vanilla. Do this quickly 
and close the oven until the whites begin to color. Eat 
cold. 



Jourtl) 

Frugal Soup. 

Calfs Liver a 1'Anglaise. Potato Croquettes. 

Spinach and Eggs. Cucumber Pickles. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

FRUGAL SOUP. 

3 Ibs. of bones. 
lb. of liver. 

1 slice of corned ham. 

2 turnips. 

2 carrots. 

Nearly a can of tomatoes. 
cup of sago. 
Pepper and salt. 
Sweet herbs. 

3 quarts cold water. 

Break the bones, chop the meat, vegetables, and herbs, 
and cook slowly" three hours in the water. Soak the sago, 
all this time, in a little cold water. Strain the soup, rub- 
bing the vegetables and liver through the colander ; sea- 
son, boil, and skim ; put in the sago and cook half an houi 
more. 



FOURTH WEEK THURSDAY. 28 J 

CALF'S LIVER i L'ANGLAISE. 

2 Ibs. liver sliced. 

Ib. fat salt pork. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

i small onion, minced fine. 

i teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

Pepper and browned flour. 

Melt, but not heat the butter in a saucepan ; lay in the 
liver, then the pork, next the minced parsley and onion, 
with a little salt and pepper. Cover closely, and set 
where it will heat very slowly without boiling, for one 
hour and a half. Then increase the heat gradually until 
the gravy begins to bubble. Remove from the fire ; cover 
the liver in a hot water dish, thicken the gravy in the 
saucepan and pour over it when it has boiled one min- 
ute. Please obey these directions implicitly. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

2 cups cold mashed potato, free from lumps. 

2 beaten eggs. 

i tablespoonful melted butter. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

i raw egg, beaten alone. 

Cracker-crumbs. 

Mix soft, as for hominy croquettes, roll in egg and 
cracker, and fry in hot lard or dripping. You can make 
into long rolls, or round balls. Drain, and serve hot. 

SPINACH AND EGGS. 

" Pick the leaves from the stems ; cook twenty minutes 
in plenty of boiling, salted water ; drain, chop fine, re- 
turn to the fire with butter, a little sugar, pepper, and 
salt. Beat until nearly dry, and very smooth ; mould in 
a hot, oblong pan ; turn out and garnish with sliced egg. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

i large cup bread-crumbs. 

i cocoanut, pared and grated. 

i tablespoonful corn-starch, wet with cold water. 



282 APRIL. 

\ cup of butter. 

1 cup of sugar. 

2 cups of milk. 
5 eggs. 

Nutmeg and rose-water to taste. 

Soak the crumbs in the milk ; cream butter and sugar, 
and beat in the yolks, then add to the soaked crumbs. 
Stir in corn-starch, beaten whites and flavoring at last, 
cocoanut. Beat hard and bake forty-five minutes in a 
buttered pudding-dish. Eat cold. 



Jburtl) tthek. 



Onion Soup. 

Salmon Croquettes. Mutton Chops, Broiled. 

Parsnip Fritters. Squeezed Potatoes. 

Almond Blanc-Mange. 



White Cake, 

ONION SOUP. 

3 sliced onions. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, and twice as much .flour. 

1 quart of milk. 

2 cups of boiling water, 
i cup of mashed potato. 
Pepper, salt, and fried bread. 

i teaspoonful essence of celery. 

Soda. 

Fry the onions in the butter ; strain the latter ; return 
to the frying-pan and stir in the flour gradually, cooking 
until it is a light bistre color. Thin with boiling water, 
added slowly. Meanwhile, heat the milk, and work by 
degrees, into the potato. Then strain through a colander 
into a saucepan ; add a piece of soda the size of a pea, 
and set within a pot of boiling water. Cook ten minutes, 



FOURTH WEEK FRIDAY. 283 

season well, put in the flour and butter. Then mince 
the onions very fine, and stir in. Let all stand in the hot 
water ten minutes ; add celery. Flavor and pour upon 
the fried bread, cut into dice and put into the tureen. 

SALMON CROQUETTES. 

1 can preserved salmon. 

2 raw eggs. 

i tablespoonful of butter. 

Yolks of 2 hard boiled eggs. 

i teaspoonful anchovy sauce. 

Juice of lemon. 

Season with salt, pepper, a little mace and nutmeg. 

cup crumbs. 

Mince the fish ; work in the butter, slightly warmed ; 
the powdered yolks, the seasoning, raw eggs finally, the 
crumbs. Make into rolls ; shape well by rolling in a dish 
covered thickly with flour. Fry quickly in sweet lard. 
Roll each, when done, for one instant, upon a clean cloth 
to take off the grease. Lay a square of treble tissue- 
paper, red, green, and white, upon a dish (fringing the 
ends), and serve. 

MUTTON CHOPS BROILED. 

If you have not a "vertical broiler," lay upon a hot 
gridiron greased and turn often over a clear fire, until 
nicely browned. Butter, salt, and pepper each one as it 
is taken from the fire. 

SQUEEZED POTATOES. 

Put old potatoes on in cold water, and cook soft. Skin 
rapidly, set over the fire for one minute ; then, twist a 
soft, dry cloth around each one until you feel it crush but 
not quite break open. Lay each, as you squeeze it, 
within a hot dish, lined with a napkin, When all are in, 
turn the four corners of the napkin over the top to keep 
in the heat. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Boil, scrape, and mash ; take out fibres and hard bits, 
Work into four large parsnips one beaten egg, a teaspoon 



284 APRIL. 

ful of flour, with pepper and salt. Make into small, 
round cakes, roll in flour and fry in good dripping. Drain 
well, and serve hot. 

ALMOND BLANC- MANGE. 

i quart of milk. 

i oz. Cooper's gelatine. 

Ib. of almonds, blanched and pounded, with i table- 
spoonful of rose-water to prevent oiling. 

cup of sugar. 

Soak the gelatine one hour in a cup of the milk. Heat 
the rest; add the almond-paste, and stir over the fire 
three minutes, then put in the sugar and gelatine, and stir 
five minutes more. Strain through thin muslin, pressing 
hard. When cool, pour into a wet mould, and set upon 
ice, or in cold water to form. Eat with cream and sugar. 
It is a good plan to blanch the almonds the day before 
they are to be pounded. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Please see " COMMON SENSE IN THE HOUSEHOLD" Series 
No. i., " General Receipts," page 334. 



Jburtl) iDeek. Saturbag. 

Okra and Tomato Soup. 
Beefs Heart. Ramakins. 

Potatoes a la Creme. Lima Beans. 



Newark Pudding. 

OKRA AND TOMATO SOUP. 

6 Ibs. of coarse beef. 
2 Ibs. of mutton bones. 

Two slices of corned ham, or a ham bone, or bones of 
salt pork. 



FOURTH WEEK SATURDAY. 285 

i can okra and tomatoes. 

6 quarts of cold water. 

Large bunch of sweet herbs. 

Pepper and salt. 

i lump of white sugar. 

Crack the bones into splinters. Cut the meat into 
strips and mince the herbs. Put on in the water, and 
cook siviity) four hours. Strain off the liquor, and divide 
into two portions. Season the meat, bones, etc., highly, 
put them back into that portion designed for Sunday, and 
set aside in a cold place. Pour the stock for to-day's soup 
back into the pot ; season with salt and pepper ; boil up, 
and skim, and add the okra, tomatoes, and sugar. Sim- 
mei half an hour, boil briskly one minute. Skim and 
serve. 

BEEF'S HEART. 

Choose a fine, fresh one. Wash well, lay in salt and 
water an hour, then wipe dry. Stuff with a force-meat of 
crumbs, minced salt pork, pepper, salt, and chopped 
parsley with a little onion. Pack this in tightly, sew the 
heart up in coarse net, fitted well to it, and stew one hour 
and a half in weak broth. (A cupful can be taken from 
your soup stock.) At the end of this time, take it out, 
undo the cloth, and return the heart to the saucepan with 
enough gravy to half cover it. Add to this a tablespoon- 
ful of butter cut up in as much flour ; pepper and salt to 
taste. Cover closely, and simmer half an hour, turning 
the heart as it browns. Dish it ; add the juice of half a 
lemon to the grav}^, boil once, and pour over the heart, 

RAMAKINS. 

Rounds of lightly toasted bread. 
3 tablespoonfuls grated cheese. 
2 eggs, beaten light. 
i tablespoonful melted butter. 
i teaspoonful anchovy sauce, 
i teaspoonful of flour, wet with cream. 
A little salt and cayenne. 
Beat eggs, butter, and seasoning together ; then the 



286 APRIL. 

cheese, lastly, the flour. Work all to a cream : spread 
thickly upon the bread, and brown lightly. 

POTATOES X LA CR&ME. 

Heat a cupful of milk ; stir in a heaping tablespoonful 
of butter cut up in as much flour. Stir until smooth and 
thick ; pepper and salt, and add two cupfuls of cold boiled 
potatoes, sliced, and a little very finely chopped parsley. 
Shake over the fire until the potatoes are hot all through, 
and pour into a deep dish. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Open the can an hour before it is needed, and empty 
into a bowl. When ready for the beans drain off the 
liquor and cook in boiling water twenty-five minutes. 
Drain, butter, pepper and salt, and serve. 

NEWARK PUDDING. 

i quart of milk. 
5 eggs. 

1 large cup fine crumbs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of rice-flour. 

Ib. of raisins cut in two, seeded and dredged with 

flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls vanilla, or other extract. (If possible 
get your flavoring extracts from COLGATE & Co., 53 
AND 55 JOHN STREET, NEW YORK. They are 
good from first to last, which is more than I can 
say for many others.) 
2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 
J teaspoonful of soda. 

Beat the yolks. Add the crumbs soaked in a pint of 
the milk. Stir in the rice-flour, wet in cold milk ; the re* 
served pint of milk ; the butter, flavoring, the fruit, and 
lastly, the whisked whites. Bake one hour in a well- 
greased mould ; turn out and eat with hard sauce. 



FIRST WEEKSUNDAY. 



MAY. 

fthek. jStmbag. 

Clear Soup. 

Roast Lamb. Green Peas 

Mint Sauce. Asparagus on Toast. 

Potato Eggs. 

Rice and Tapioca Pudding. 

CLEAR SOUP. 

Take all the fat from the stock reserved for to-day, and 
pour the liquid carefully off from the meat and bones, 
not disturbing the sediment in the bottom. (Mem. 
Take out a little of the meat, beef, and ham, for a purpose 
of which we shall speak presently add boiling water 
about a quart to the rest of the residuum with more sea- 
soning, and the remains of your okra and tomato soup. 
Stew gently half an hour, and set aside in a cool place for 
to-morrow. The growing heat of the weather makes this 
a necessary precaution.) Put then the clear stock upon 
the fire with a whole onion, and simmer thirty minutes. 
Skim well, take out the onion, and stir in two tablespoon- 
fuls of gelatine previously soaked one hour in cold water, 
with a tablespoonful (scant) of Harvey's sauce. Cook 
five minutes and pour out. 

ROAST LAMB. 

Lay in the dripping-pan ; dash a cupful of boiling water 
over it and roast in a good oven, allowing about ten min- 
utes not more to the pound. Baste often and freely, 
and after half an hour, cover with a sheet of thick paper. 
Five minutes before "taking it up, remove this, dredge with 
flour, and as this browns, bring to a froth with butter. 
Do not send the gravy to table if you use mint sauce. 



288 MAY. 

MINT SAUCE. 

2 tablespoonfuls green mint, chopped very fine. 
i tablespoonful white sugar. 
About half a cupful best cider vinegar. 
Put sugar and vinegar into a sauce-boat and stir in the 
mint. Let it stand fifteen minutes before serving. 

GREEN PEAS. 

i have purposely avoided too early an introduction of 
green vegetables and other spring dainties, through fear 
that the high prices demanded for them might make this 
part of my work useless for housekeepers of moderate 
means. By the first of May, however, even our Northern 
markets should be well supplied at reasonable rates with 
many delightful esculents which are, as yet, brought only 
from the South. 

Shell the peas and wash well in cold water. Cook in 
boiling water salted for twenty-five minutes. A lump 
of sugar will be an addition, and a pleasant one, to mar- 
ket peas. Drain well, stir in a great lump of butter, and 
pepper and salt. Serve hot. 

ASPARAGUS UPON TOAST. 

Cut the stalks of equal length, rejecting the woody por- 
tions and scraping the whiter parts retained. Tie in a 
bunch with soft tape, and cook about thirty minutes, if of 
fair size. Have ready six or eight slices of crustless 
bread, nicely toasted. Dip in the asparagus -liquor, butter 
well and lay upon a very hot dish. Drain the asparagus, 
untie, and arrange upon the toast, peppering and butter- 
ing to. taste. 

POTATO EGGS. 

2 cups mashed potato. 
cup minced meat. 
2 beaten eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls hot milk. 

i tablespoonful melted butter. 

3 tablespoonfuls gravy. 
Pepper, salt, and dripping. 



FIRST WEEK MONDAY. 289 

Work the potato smooth with butter, milk, gravy, and 
beaten eggs. Put into a saucepan, and stir over the fire 
until smoking hot. Stir in the meat ; let it get cool 
enough to handle. Flour your hands and make the mix- 
ture into egg-shaped balls. Roll in flour and fry in hot 

dripping. Pile upon a hot dish. 

t 

RICE AND TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

cup rice. 

cup tapioca. 

f cup sugar. 

3 pints of milk. 

Cinnamon to taste. 

Soak the tapioca three hours in half of the milk. Wash 
the rice in three waters and soak in the rest of the milk 
the same length of time. Put them together, stir in the 
sugar by degrees, until all is melted ; season with cinna- 
mon and a pinch of salt ; mix up well, and bake in a slow 
oven two hours. Make it on Saturday, and eat cold on 
Sunday with sugar and cream. 



Jrat 



Yesterday's Soup. 

Cold Lamb. Savory Macaroni. 

Sea Kale. Potato Salad. 

Coffee and Sister Mag's Cake. 

YESTERDAY'S SOUP. 

Strain the stock heated up on Sunday with the remains 
of Saturday's soup. Boil four tablespoonfuls of rice in a 
little water until soft. Add, with the water, to the soup, 
with additional seasoning, if necessary, and heat almost to 
a boil. If it has been kept in a cool place you will find it 
very good. Never throw away a spoonful of any soup, 
It will come into use if you can keep it from spoiling, 
13 



290 MAY. 

COLD LAMB. 

Trim neatly, garnish with curled parsley, and pass mixed 
pickles with it. Few methods of preparing lamb for the 
table by warming over can compare with the easier way 
of setting it on cold, if it has been nicely roasted at first. 

SAVORY MACARONI. 

To a cup of yesterday's soup add another of boiling 
water. Let them boil once ; skim and put in half a pound 
of macaroni broken into inch lengths. While it is cook- 
ing tender, boil one sweetbread fifteen minutes ; throw 
into cold water and let it cool, then cut into small dice. 
When the macaroni is tender, but not broken, mix with 
it a custard made of two eggs, one large cup of milk, and 
a little salt. Stir into the macaroni a very little minced 
onion, pepper to taste ; add the chopped sweetbread ; 
put into a greased mould, with a cover ; put this into a 
dripping-pan full of boiling water and cook in a good oven 
a little over one hour. Turn out upon a hot dish, and 
send around grated cheese with it. 

SEA- KALE. 



Pick over carefully, tie up in bunches, and lay for half 
an hour in cold water. Put into salted boiling water and 
cook twenty-five minutes. Put buttered toast in the 
bottom of a deep dish ; clip the threads binding the kale, 
and lay it upon the toast. Pepper, and pour a cupful of 
drawn butter over it. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes, and put a layer in a salad 
dish. Cover with thin slices of hard boiled egg, and strew 
with bits of pickled onion. When the dish is full pom 
over them a dressing made in the proportion of one table- 
spoonful of vinegar to three of salad oil ; one spoonful of 
salt to half as much pepper, and the same quantity of made 
mustard. Beat up well before pouring over the salad. 
Let all stand ten minutes or more before serving. 



FIRST WEEK TUESDAY. 

COFFEE AND SISTER MAG'S CAKE. 

Let y ;ur coffee be strong and hot, with plenty of boiling 
milk. % 

For receipt for the delightful cake mentioned please 
see " COMMON SENSE IN THE HOUSEHOLD " Series No. i. 
"General Receipts," page 321. Friday is a good cake- 
baking day. 



.first tDeek. Stteairap. 

Veal and Tapioca Broth. 

Baked Beefsteak. Young Onions Stewed. 

Potatoes Baked with Steak. Lettuce Salad. 

Oatmeal Pudding with Cream. 

VEAL AND TAPIOCA BROTH. 

3 Ibs. scrag of veal, well broken, and the meat cut 

small, 
i onion. 

1 turnip. 

J- cup of pearl tapioca. 

2 blades of mace. 

2 teaspoonfuls essence of celery. 
Pepper and salt. 

3 quarts of cold water. 

Put meat, bones, and sliced vegetables on in the water, 
and cook slowly three hours. Soak the tapioca during 
this time in a very little milk. Strain the soup, rubbing 
the vegetables through the colander ; cool to throw up 
the fat. Skim and season. When hot again put in the 
tapioca and stir until it melts. Simmer half an hour, 
add the celery essence and serve. 

BAKED BEEFSTEAK. 

Take the bone from a large sirloin steak ; flatten it 
with the side of a hatchet, wash over the upper side with 



292 MAY. 

a beaten egg and spread thickly with a force-meat of 
crumbs, minced ham, and any other cold meat you may 
have, a teaspoonful of minced onion, a pinch of grated 
lemon peel, with pepper 'and salt, a beaten egg and three 
tablespoonfuls of cream or milk. Work these into a 
paste before spreading. Roll the steak upon them, bind- 
ing closely with soft pack-thread. Have ready some drip- 
ping in a frying-pan, and cook the steak five minutes in 
this, turning as it browns. Now lay it in a dripping-pan 
with a cupful of boiling water ; cover and bake forty min- 
utes, basting and turning often. When done, remove 
the strings ; lay the beef upon a hot dish ; thicken the 
gravy with browned flour, boil up and pour half over it 
the rest into a boat. 

YOUNG ONIONS STEWED. 

Skin, wash well, and cook in boiling water, salted, until 
half-done say fifteen minutes. Then, throw off nearly 
all the water and replenish with scalding milk. Cook 
tender in this, stir in pepper, salt, a great spoonful of 
butter cut up in a teaspoonful of flour. Simmer three 
minutes, and pour out. 

POTATOES BAKED WITH STEAK. 

Parboil, skin, and quarter some large potatoes. About 
ten minutes before you take up your steak, lay the pota- 
toes around it in the pan, and brown in the hot gravy. 
Serve in the dish with the meat, laid on the outer edge. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Pull out the hearts and blanched leaves, heap them 
within a salad bowl ; strew with powdered sugar, and 
pour over them a dressing made according to directioni 
given yesterday. Toss up well with a silver fork. 

OATMEAL PUDDING WITH CREAM. 

i quart of boiling milk. 

4 tablespoonfuls best Irish oatmeaL 

4 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

i teaspoonful of salt. 



FIRST WEEK WEDNESDAY. 

Wet up flour, oatmeal, and salt, with cold milk and stir 
into the hot, which must be in a farina-kettle. Stir twenty 
minutes well from the bottom, and let it stand ten min 
utes in the boiling water without cooking before pouring 
into an uncovered deep dish. Eat with cream and sugar. 



Jir0t tihek. 

Hot Pot. 
Stewed Breast of Veal with Mushrooms. 

Rhubarb Sauce. Spinach a la Reine. 

Browned Mashed Potatoes. 

Burnt Custard. 

HOT POT. 

4 Ibs. coarse lean beef, cut up small 

2 good-sized crabs. 

Ib. of streaked salt pork. 

Bunch of sweet herbs. 

i onion. 

i bunch of asparagus the green tops only. 

8 Boston crackers. 

Cayenne pepper. 

Butter for crackers. 

6 quarts of water. 

Juice of i lemon. 

Boil beef, herbs and onion together in the water cook- 
ing slowly three hours. Cool, to throw up the fat, and 
skim well. Put away half of the liquor with the meat, 
well-seasoned, for another day. Strain the remainder 
back into the pot ; add the meat of two boiled crabs 
nicely cut not chopped up, and the pork, also boiled 
and cut into dice ; the asparagus-tops, with plenty of sea- 
soning. Stew for half an hour, gently. Have ready in 
your tureen eight Boston crackers split, laid for five min- 
utes in boiling water, then drained and buttered. Pour 



294 MA Y. 

the soup over these, cover, and serve, having added the 
lemon-juice at the last. Send sliced lemon around with it 

STEWED BREAST OF VEAL WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Trim neatly; take out the largest bone, and fill the 
cavity with a good force-meat. Skewer into a compact 
shape. Lay in a frying-pan with three tablespoonfuls of 
butter, and brown on both sides. Line the bottom of a 
large saucepan with slices of pork, pepper them, and lay 
in the veal. Cover tightly, and heat very slowly, one 
hour, without opening the pot. Then turn the meat, 
add half a can of chopped mushrooms, and half a Berr 
muda onion, sliced, with a cup of boiling water. Cover 
again, and cook for another hour never fast. The meat 
should be cooked almost wholly in its own steam. Turn 
again, and simmer fifteen minutes. Take up the meat, 
thicken the gravy with browned flour, wet with cold water, 
adding a little boiling water, if needful ; boil up, and pour 
over the veal. If these directions be exactly followed, this 
dish will be excellent. 

SPINACH 1 LA REINE. 

Wash well, pick off the leaves, and cook them twenty 
minutes in salted, boiling water. Drain and press out 
all the water ; chop very fine. Return to the saucepan 
with a good lump of butter, pepper, salt, a pinch of mace, 
a teaspoonful of sugar, and three spoonfuls large ones 
of good gravy. Stir, beat, and toss, until nearly dry. 
Fill hot, wet egg-cups with the mixture, and turn out 
upon a heated, flat dish. Lay a slice of egg upon each. 

RHUBARB (OR PIE-PLANT) SAUCE. 

Skin, and cut up the stalks. Put into a saucepan, with 
just enough water to keep them from burning, and stew 
slowly until soft. Sweeten while hot, but not on the. 
fire. Eat cold. 

BROWNED POTATOES MASHED. . 

Whip up boiled potatoes very light with a fork ; beat in 
butter, milk, and salt. Heat roughly upon a neat bake- 



. FIRST WEEK THURSDA Y. 295 

dish (one with a silver stand for the table, if you have it), 
and brown in a quick oven, glazing with butter, when 
done. 

BURNT CUSTARD. 

i quart of milk. 

5 eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Nutmeg and flavoring extract to taste. 
Scald the milk, but not to boiling ; beat eggs light with 
the sugar, and pour upon them the hot milk. Mix well, 
and bake in a well-buttered dish. Turn out when cold ; 
strew very thickly with white sugar. Set the plate con- 
taining the custard upon the upper grating of a hot oven. 
The sugar will melt, and run in brown streams all over 
the moulded pudding. Slip carefully to a dish, and eat 
cold. 



firsi tDeek. 



Italian Minestra Soup. 

Chicken Pudding. Boiled Potatoes. 

Asparagus and Eggs. Crabapple Jelly. 

German Puffs. 

ITALIAN MINESTRA Soup. 

Strain the stock reserved for to-day from the bones, 
after taking the fat from the top. Never neglect this. 
Greasy soups are not good, and plenty of dripping may 
be thus obtained for kitchen use. Heat the soup, season 
to taste, and add a little more than half a cupful of min- 
estra, by some known as Italian Paste. It can be had at 
the best grocers in various shapes like wheat-grains, in 
small squares, or in stars, circles, letters, etc. Simmer 
twenty minutes, and pour out. The minestra should be 
tender, but not broken. 



296 MAY. 

CHICKEN PUDDING. 

Cut up a tender fowl into neat joints, and parboil, sea- 
soning well, ten minutes before you take it up, with pep- 
per, salt, and a generous spoonful of butter. It should 
cook slowly for half an hour. Take up and cool, setting 
aside the liquor for your gravy. 

BATTER FOR THE PUDDING. 

i quart of milk. 

3 cups of prepared flour, not heaping. 

3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

4 well-whipped eggs. 
A little salt. 

Make a hole in the flour, when you have sifted the salt 
through it. Mix eggs, milk, and butter together, and 
pour in by degrees, beating all up hard at the last. Put 
a layer of chicken in the bottom of a bake-dish ; pour a 
cupful of batter upon it ; then more chicken, and so on, 
until the dish is full, with batter for the upper crust. It 
will require about one hour to bake in a moderate oven. 
Skim the cooled gravy, and boil down one-half. Then, 
stir in a tablespoonful of butter, cut up in flour. Boil 
once, and pour over a beaten egg. Season with chopped 
parsley ; return to the fire ; let it almost boil, and serve 
in a sauce-boat. Pass with the pudding. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Put on in cold water, and bring to a rapid boil. When 
nearly done, pour off all but a cupful of water. Cover 
closely, return to the fire, and steam until the skins crack, 
and the potatoes are soft. They will need about half an 
hour's boiling in all. Uncover, strew with salt, leave for 
a few moments for the moisture to evaporate, and serve at 
once. Old potatoes, treated thus, can be made mealy. 

ASPARAGUS AND EGGS. 

Cut about two dozen stalks of asparagus leaving out 
the hard parts into inch lengths, and boil tender. 
Drain ; pour upon them a cupful of drawn butter ; stii 



FIRST WEEK FRIDAY. 2$, 

until hot, then turn into a bake-dish. Break six eggs 
upon the top ; put a bit of butter upon each ; salt and 
pepper, and put into a quick oven until the eggs are 
"set." 

GERMAN PUFFS. 

3 cups of prepared flour. 

3 cups of milk. 

3 eggs whites and yolks whipped separately, and very 
light. 

3 teaspoonfuls of melted butter. 

i saltspoonful of salt. 

Make a batter as directed for your chicken pudding, 
beat up hard, and bake in nine cups, such as you used 
for measuring, to a fine brown. The oven should be a 
quick one, and the puffs be served immediately in their 
cups. 



Jirat iDeek. 

Canned Corn Soup. 

Boiled Shad. Scalloped Roes. 

Potato Snow. Green Peas. 

Cress Salad. 

Lemon Trifle. 
Tea and Cake. 

CANNED CORN SOUP. 

i can of sweet corn, 
i quart of boiling water. 

1 quart of milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in one tablespoonful 
of flour. 

2 eggs. 
Pepper and salt. 

i tablespoonful tomato catsup. 
13* 



29.8 MA Y. 

Drain the corn and chop it in a chopping-tray. Put on 
in the boiling water and cook steadily one hour. Rub 
through a colander, leaving the husks behind and return, 
with the water in which it has boiled, to the fire. Season ; 
boil gently three minutes and stir in the butter and flour. 
Have ready the boiling milk, pour it upon the beaten 
eggs, and these into the soup. Simmer one minute, stir- 
ring all the while ; take up, add the catsup and pour out. 

BOILED SHAD. 

Clean, wash and wipe a large roe shad. Set aside the 
roes for your scallop. Sew up the fish in a thin cloth 
fitted to its shape ; cover well with boiling salted water, 
and cook from forty-five minutes to an hour, according to 
its size. Unwrap and butter and pepper, after laying it 
upon a hot dish. Pour over it a few spoonfuls of drawn 
butter in which have been mixed the chopped yolks of 
two eggs, a little parsley, and the juice of a lemon. Serve 
the same in a boat. Garnish the fish with rings of the 
whites of the boiled eggs, with a sprig of parsley in each. 

SCALLOPED ROES. 

The roes of the shad. 

i cup of drawn butter, and the yolks of three hard- 
boiled eggs. 

i teaspoonful of anchovy paste. 
Juice of half a lemon, 
i cup of bread-crumbs. 
Parsley, salt and pepper to taste. 

Boil the roes in water with a little vinegar stirred in. 
Lay in cold water five minutes and wipe dry. Break up 
with the back of a spoon, but do not crush the eggs. Set 
by, and pound the boiled yolks to a powder. Beat this 
into the drawn butter, then the parsley and other season- 
ing, finally the roes. Strew the bottom of a bake-dish 
with crumbs ; pour in the mixture, and cover thickly with 
fine crumbs. Stick dots of butter over the top, and bake, 
coveied, until it begins to bubble, then brown upon the 
upper grating of the oven. 



FIRST WEEK FRIDAY. 299 

POTATO SNOW. 

Mash with a beetle very fine, working ic salt only. 
Then rub hard and fast through a colander into a hot dish. 
The potato should fall in light spiral threads. Set in the 
oven three minutes to renew the heat, but do not let it 
' crust " or brown. 

GREEN PEAS. 
See receipt given on Sunday. 

CRESS SALAD. 

Pull the sprigs to pieces and pour over them a dressing 
such as was made for your potato salad on Monday. 

LEMON TRIFLE. 

Juice of 2 lemons and grated peel of one. 

i pint cream, well sweetened and whipped stiff. 

i cup of sherry. 

A little nutmeg. 

Let sugar, lemon-juice, and peel lie together two hours 
before you add wine and nutmeg. Strain through doa- 
ble tarlatan, and whip gradually into the frothed cream. 
Serve very soon, heaped in small glasses. Pass cake with 
this as well as with the tea. 

TEA AND CAKE. 

Whereas pound, jelly, or cup-cake should accompany 
your trifle, small sponge-cakes, or cookies not too sweet 
taste better with tea, and do not detract sc much from 
its flavor. 



300 MAY. 

Jtt0t 



Minced Beef Soup. 

Ragout of Mutton. Boiled Potatoes, 

French Beans with Force-meat Balls. Boiled Rice. 

Neapolitan Pudding. 

MINCED BEEF SOUP. 

4 Ibs. lean beef, minced fine, as for beef-tea. 
2 Ibs. mutton-bones. 

2 carrots, grated. 

2 sliced onions. 

Bunch of sweet herbs, and small bunch of asparagus, also 

chopped. 
Pepper and salt. 

5 quarts of water. 
Strips of buttered toast. 

Crack the bones to splinters, and put on with the vege- 
tables in three quarts of cold water and boil two hours. 
Strain, rubbing the vegetables to a pulp, and add, with the 
rest of the water, also cold, to the minced beef. Bring to 
a boil, cook gently one hour after it boils, and strain, 
pressing hard. Reserve a little of the beef for force-meat, 
and put away the rest well seasoned, after pouring back 
over it half the soup, as stock for to-morrow. Keep in a 
cool place. Chop the herbs and put into that meant for 
to-day, with pepper and salt. Boil and skim fifteen min- 
utes. Have ready some long strips of buttered crisp 
toast in the tureen and pour on the soup. 

RAGOUT OF MUTTON. 

3 Ibs. of mutton, without, bone, cut into strips three 

inches long by one wide. 
2 lamb sweetbreads. 

1 cup of gravy made from bones, skin, etc. the *' trim 

mings " of the meat. 

2 eggs. 



FIRST WEEK SATURDAY. 30 1 

^ lb. streaked salt pork. 

i fried onion. 

i cup of green peas. 

Pepper, salt, and parsley. 

Dripping for frying. 

Browned flour. 

Fry the onion in plenty of dripping ; then the meat for 
five minutes. Parboil the sweetbreads, throw into cold 
water to blanch ; wipe and slice ; then fry also in the fat. 
Lay sliced pork in the bottom of a saucepan, upon this 
the mutton, then the sweetbreads, next the onion, the 
green peas, then pepper and salt. Cover with the gravy ; 
put on a close lid and stew gently for an hour after the 
boil sets in. Take up the meat and sweetbreads ; thicken 
the gravy with browned flour ; pour it upon two beaten 
eggs, stir one minute over the fire and pour upon the 
meat. 

BROILED POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes lengthwise ; cook over a clear 
fire upon a greased gridiron, until they begin to brown. 
Lay upon a hot dish, butter, pepper, arid salt. 

FRENCH BEANS WITH FORCE-MEAT BALLS. 
Chop the beef taken from the soup when cold. Add 
one-third as much bread-crumbs, and season well. Put 
a spoonful of butter into a saucepan, and when it hisses, 
stir in the meat, then a little browned flour wet up with 
cold water. Beat an egg light, pour the meat upon it, 
and mix well. Make into floured balls and fry in hot drip- 
ping. Cook the beans as usual and lay the balls about 
them when dished. 

BOILED RICE. 

Wash well and cook in hot salted water, shaking up 
from time to time until the water is nearly all absorbed, 
and the rice soft, with every grain distinct. Put a good 
piece of butter upon the top after it is dished. 

NEAPOLITAN PUDDING. 
i large cup of bread-crumbs soaked in milk, 
f cup of sugar. 



MAY. 



5 eggs. 

i lemon, juice and grated rind. 

\ Ib. stale sponge-cake. 

\ Ib. almond maccaroons. 

\ cup jelly or jam. 

i small tumbler of sherry wine. 

\ cup of milk for the crumbs. 

i tablespoonful melted butter. 

Cream butter and sugar. Beat in the whipped yolks; 
then the crumbs, the lemon, and when this is a smooth 
paste, the whites. Butter a mould thickly, and cover the 
bottom with dry bread-crumbs, and these with macca- 
roons, laid evenly. Wet with wine, and pour on a layer 
of the mixture just made ; next, put sliced cake spread 
with jelly, then more maccaroons wet with wine, more 
custard, cake and jam, until all the materials are used up, 
with a layer of custard on top. Cover closely ; set in a 
pan of boiling water and cook three-quarters of an 
hour in the oven, then remove the top and brown. Turn 
out carefully, and pour over it a sauce made of currant- 
jelly warmed, and beaten up with two tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter and a glass of wine. A plain round mould 
is best for this pudding. 



Seconir tDeek. Bunirag. 

Soup a 1'Italienne. 

Beef a la Mode. Asparagus upon Toast. 

Green Peas. Mashed Potatoes. 



Tropical Snow with Jelly Cake. 

SOUP i L'ETALIENNE. 

Take the fat from the top of the reserved stock, strain 
it and heat to scalding. Heat in another vessel a pint of 
milk, pour it upon three beaten eggs ; return to the 
saucepan with a little salt and a pinch of soda, and cook 



SECOND WEEK SUNDAY. 303 

two minutes, stirring all the while. Have ready foiu 
tablespoonfuls of grated cheese in the bottom of a tureen, 
pour in, first, the milk and eggs, then the soup. Stir all 
up well, and serve. 

BEEF 1 LA MODE. 

Remove the bone from a round of beef, and trim away 
the gristle and tough bits from the edges. (Cover these 
with water and boil down for soup-stock. Season highly 
and put by in a cool place for Monday.) Bind the beef 
into a good shape by sewing about it a broad band of 
stout muslin, as wide as the round is high. Cut a pound 
of salt pork into strips long enough to reach from 
top to bottom of the beef make incisions in it with a 
thin, long-bladed knife, and thrust these in closely 
together. Fill the hole from which the bone was taken 
with a force-meat of minced pork and crumbs, highly 
spiced. Put the meat thus prepared in a deep earthen- 
ware dish, and rub well into it a mixture of one cup of 
vinegar, a teaspoonful of mixed cloves and allspice, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and the same of made mustard ; a table- 
spoonful of sugar and a bunch of sweet herbs minced, with 
as much pepper as salt. Leave the beef in the pan with 
the spiced vinegar about the base from Saturday until 
Sunday morning, turning several times. Early on Sun- 
day, put it into a large pot, with enough boiling water to 
half-cover it ; cover tightly with a weight upon the lid, and 
stew at least four hours or half an hour for each pound. 
Open once, when half-done, to turn the meat. Dish the 
meat ; cut the stitches in the band, and withdraw it care- 
fully. Keep hot while you prepare the gravy. Pour oft 
all but a cupful, and set aside for soup-stock. Thicken 
that reserved with browned flour, and serve in a boat. 
Cut the beef in horizontal slices. 

When dinner is over, pin another band tightly about the 
meat ; pour gravy on the top, and set a plate with a heavy 
weight upon it, on the round, before putting it away for 
Monday's dinner. 

ASPARAGUS UPON TOAST, AND GREEN PEAS 
Please see receipts given on last Sunday. 



304 MAY. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Mash in the usual mariner, working in mi\k, butter, and 
salt. Make into a smooth mound in a deep dish, and score 
deeply on top with the back of a knife. 

TROPICAL SNOW. 

10 sweet oranges. 

1 cocoanut, pared and grated. 

2 glasses sherry. 

i cup powdered sugar. 
6 bananas. 

Peel and cut the oranges small, taking out the seeds. 
Put a layer in a glass-bowl and wet with wine, then strew 
with sugar. Next, put a layer of grated cocoanut, slice 
the bananas thin, and cover the cocoanut with them. 
When the dish has been filled in this order, heap with co- 
coanut. Eat soon, or the oranges will toughen. 

JELLY CAKE, 

In some of its pretty variations, and sliced in triangles, 
should go around with the snow. 



5econir 



Macaroni Soup. 
Pressed Beef. Spinach. 

Potato Puff. Chow-chow. 

Southern Rice Pudding. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

Take the fat from both portions of stock set by for to- 
day ; put them together, and strain into a soup-kettle ; 
Heat to a boil, skim well, and after fifteen minutes' cook- 
ing, add a quarter of a pound of macaroni, boiled tender 
in salted hot water, and cut into pieces about an inch 
long. Simmer ten minutes and pour out. 



SECOND WEEK MONDAY. 35 

PRESSED BEEF. 

Take the weight from your round of beef; undo the 
bandage, and set on the table cold, garnished with cresses. 
Cut in thin horizontal slices. It will be handsomely 
mottled with the pork. Many prefer to eat a la mode 
beef cold, always. 

SPINACH. 

Cook as directed upon last Wednesday, but leaving out 
the gravy and not drying out so much. Beat to a smooth 
cream, and turn into a deep dish, with sippets of fried 
bread at the base. 

POTATO PUFF. 

2 cupfuls of cold rnashed potatoes. 
2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 
2 beaten eggs. 
cup of milk. 
Salt to taste. 

Beat in butter, then milk and salt, finally the eggs. 
Whip all up to a cream. Pile in a bake-dish and cook in 
a good oven until lightly colored. 

SOUTHERN RICE PUDDING. 

i quart fresh milk. 

1 cup raw rice. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 
i cup of sugar. 

4 eggs, beaten light. 

Grated peel of half a lemon. 

Pinch of cinnamon and the same of mace. 

Soak the rice in the milk for two hours in a farina- 
kettle, surrounded by warm water. Then increase the 
heat, and simmer until the rice is tender. Cream butter 
and sugar, and whisk into the eggs, until very light. 
When the rice is almost cold, stir all together, and bake in 
a buttered dish three-quarters of an hour. Eat warm with 
sauce, or cold with sugar and cream. 



MA Y. 



Green Pea Soup. 

Mutton Chops, Breaded. Stewed Tomatoes. 

Mashed Potatoes. Lettuce. 

Batter Pudding. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

3 Ibs. lean beef. 

3 quarts of water. 

peck of green peas. 
Salt and pepper. 

4 tablespoonfuls of rice-flour. 
Chopped parsley. 

Boil the empty pea-pods in the water one hour. Strain 
these out, put in the beef, cut up fine, and cook gently 
one hour and a half longer, or until the beef is in rags. 
Add the peas ; boil half an hour, and rub hard through a 
colander to pulp the peas. Return to the fire, season, and 
stir in the rice-flour wet up in cold water, and the parsley 
Stir ten minutes, and serve. 

BREADED MUTTON CHOPS. 

Trim neatly, cutting off all the fat and skin. Roll in 
beaten egg, then in cracker-crumbs, and fry in hot drip- 
ping, turning as the under-side browns. Drain well and 
serve, standing upon the thick part around the base of 
your potatoes. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

After mashing soft and smooth with butter, milk, and 
salt, mound upon a flat, hot dish, with the chops laid up 
against them. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Empty a can of tomatoes an hour before you mean to 
use them, and leave in a crockery bowl. Put on in a 
saucepan, and stew twenty minutes ; add salt, pepper, a 



SECOND WEEK WEDNESDAY. 30? 

little sugar, and a good spoonful of butter, and simme? 
ten minutes more. 

LETTUCE. 

Cut up not chop and pour over them a dressing made 
of 

2 tablespoonfuls of salad-oil. 
\ teaspoonful of salt. 
5 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 
i teaspoonful white sugar. 
teaspoonful of made mustard, 
i teaspoonful pepper. 
Yolks of 2 boiled eggs. 

Rub the eggs to 'a powder, add all the ingredients 
except the vinegar, and let alone five or ten minutes. 
Then beat in the vinegar with your " Dover " egg-whisk 
until the mixture is smooth. Garnish with a chain of the 
whites. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

1 pint of milk. 

4 eggs whites and yolks beaten separately. 

2 even cups of prepared flour. 
i teaspoonful salt. 

Beat up the eggs, and add the yolks to the milk. Salt 
the flour, and stir in alternately with the whites. Beat 
hard and bake in a buttered pudding-dish forty-five min- 
utes. Eat with sweet sauce, at once, as it soon falls. 



tUebn0irag. 



Fine White Soup. 
Calf's Liver, Larded. Green Pea Pancakes. 

Asparagus in Ambush. 
Bermuda Potatoes en robe de chambre? 

Pine-Apple Pie. 

FINE WHITE SOUP. 
3 Ibs. veal knuckle, cracked to pieces, 



308 MAY. 

i old chicken, cut up as for fricassee. 

i onion. 

i Ib. of almonds blanched some hours before you use 

them, and when quite dry and brittle, pounded to 

a paste. 

Lump of white sugar, 
i pint of milk, 
i tablespoonful of butter, cut up* in two tablespoon fuls 

of corn-starch. 

i teaspoonful essence of celery. 
Pepper and salt. 
5 quarts cold water. 
Soda. 

Cut the meat from the knuckle ; put this, the chicken, 
bones and onion, with the water, and boil slowly two 
hours. Take out the chicken, and put into a deep jar or 
bowl, sprinkling well with salt. Cook the soup an hour 
longer ; strain back into the pot, pressing the meat hard. 
Take out half of the liquid, season well, and pour upon 
the chicken, cover, and set in a cold place for to-morrow's 
" stock." Season the soup in the kettle with pepper and 
salt. Boil and skim. Chop the veal-shreds very fine, and 
mix with the almonds. Have ready the milk, scalding 
hot, with a pinch of soda stirred in, and pour upon the 
veal-and-almond paste. Set over the fire in a saucepan, 
and stir in the butter and corn-starch, simmering five 
minutes. Add the sugar, and turn into the tureen, then 
pour in the soup. Stir all up well, and let them stand, 
covered, in hot water, a few minutes. Stir up again and 
send to table. 

CALF'S LIVER, LARDED. 

Cut half a pound of fat salt pork into lardoons, and thrust 
them, about half an inch apart, into a fresh liver, so that 
they will pfoject on both sides. Put two tablespoonfuls 
of butter into a s^ucepan, with a small onion minced, 
pepper, and some sweet herbs chopped, also a few spoon- 
fuls of strained tomato (leftover from yesterday). Cover 
closely, and set in a frying-pan of boiling water for one 
hour, keeping the outer pan full all the time, and turning 



SECOND WEEK WEDNESDAY. 309 

the liver twice. Then take out the saucepan, and set 
over the fire, but cook slowly. When the liver is nicely 
browned below, turn it. At the end of forty minutes, boil 
up once sharply and for the first time. Take out the 
liver, and keep hot. Add a little boiling water to the 
gravy, strain, thicken with browned flour, and pour ovei 
the liver. 

GREEN PEA PANCAKES. 

Two cups of green peas, boiled, and mashed when hot. 
Season with butter, pepper, and salt, and when cold, beat 
in two eggs, a cupful of milk, half a teaspoonful of soda, 
and twice as much cream of tartar, sifted twice through 
half a cupful of flour. Beat well, and bake as you would 
griddle-cakes. Eat very hot. 

ASPARAGUS -IN AMBUSH. 

The green tops of two bunches of asparagus. 

8 or 9 stale biscuits, or small, light rolls. 

2 cups of milk. 

4 eggs. 

i great spoonful of butter, rolled in flour. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Take out the crumb from the rolls, when you have cut 
off the tops to serve as covers, and set them open in the 
oven to crisp, laying the tops by them. Heat the milk, 
pour upon the beaten eggs ; stir over the fire until they 
begin to thicken, when add the butter and flour. Lastly, 
put in the asparagus, boiled tender, and chopped fine. 
Fill the rolls with this mixture, put on the tops, and serve 
hot. Good! 

BERMUDA POTATOES en robe de chambre. 
Put on in boiling water, and gook until a fork will pierce 
them. Throw off the water and set back, uncovered, 
upon the range to dry off, strewing with salt at the same 
time, Send to table in a dish lined with a napkin, peeling 
as you eat them. 

PlNE-APPLE PlE. 

i large pine-apple, pared and grated. 
i cup of sugar. 



HAY. 

\ cup of butter. 

5 beaten eggs. 

A little nutmeg. 

Some good pie-paste. 

Cream, butter and sugar. Beat in the yolks for three 
minutes ; add pine-apple and spice ; lastly, the whites. 
Bake in open shells of paste. Eat cold. 



Beconir tDeek. 



Mulligatawny Soup. 

Chicken Pates. Sea-Kale. 

Potatoes au Maitre d'Hotel. Lettuce and Cress Salad. 

Queen of Puddings with Strawberry Meringue. 

MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. 

Skim the stock set aside yesterday, and strain from the 
chicken into a soup-pot. Add a small onion and half a 
cupful of raw rice, and simmer forty minutes, or until the 
rice is tender. Wet up a tablespoonful of curry powder 
with the juice of a lemon, and stir in then a large spoon- 
ful of butter rolled in flour. Boil once and serve. 

CHICKEN PATE'S. 

Chop the meat of your cold chicken fine, and season 
well. Make a large cupful of rich drawn butter, and 
while it is on the fire, stir in two eggs boiled hard and 
minced very fine, also a little chopped parsley then the 
chicken-meat. Let it almost boil. Have ready some 
pate pans of good paste, baked quickly to a light brown. 
Slip while hot from the pans, fill with the mixture, and set 
in the oven to heat. Arrange upon a dish and send up 
hot. 

SEA- KALE. 

Choose fresh, and pick over carefully ; cook twenly-five 
minutes in boiling, salted water ; drain and press well. 



SECOND WEEK THURSDAY. 311 

Chop fine ; put back in the saucepan with a great lump 
of butter, pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon. 
Stir and beat, and heap upon slices of buttered crustless 
toast laid upon a hot dish. 

POTATOES AU MA!TRE D' HOTEL. 

Put a cup of milk into a saucepan, and when it heats, 
stir in two tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in flour, with 
salt, pepper, and chopped parsley ; then about two cup- 
fuls cold boiled potatoes, sliced rather thick. Heat 
scalding hot, take from the fire and add a pinch of grated 
lemon -peel with the juice of half a lemon. Serve in a 
deep dish. 

LETTUCE AND CRESS SALAD. 

Cut up lettuce and cresses, having washed both well, 
and pile in a salad bowl ; then pour over them a dressing 
made by beating together four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 
one teaspoonful each of salt and sugar, half as much mus- 
tard, and when these are well mixed, adding, gradually, 
two tablespoonfuls of best salad oil. Toss with a silver 
fork, and serve. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS WITH STRAWBERRY MERINGUE. 

ij cups of sugar. 

5 eggs. 

2 cups fine bread-crumbs. 

i tablespoonful of butter. 

Lemon flavoring. 

i quart fresh milk. 

i pint fresh strawberries. 

Cream the butter, and a cup of sugar. Beat in the 
whipped yolks ; the crumbs, soaked in the milk ; lastly, 
the seasoning. Fill a pudding-dish two- thirds full and 
bake until the custard is "set." Draw to the mouth of 
the oven, and cover with the strawberries, rolled in su- 
gar, then with a meringue made of the whipped whites 
and the half-cup of sugar. Bake until the meringue be- 
gins to color. Eat cold with cream. 



312 MAY. 



0tconb tDeek. Jnirajj. 

A Soup Maigre. 

Fried Shad. Roe Croquettes. 

Mashed Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes with Onion and Bread, 

Cup Custards, Baked. 
Corn-Starch Cake. 

A SOUP MAIGRE. 

2 carrots. 

2 onions. 

i large potato. 

i pint of green peas. 

J cup of raw rice. 

1 tablespoonful of white sugar. 

2 great spoonfuls of butter rolled in flour. 
Pepper and salt. 

4 quarts of cold water. 

Dripping for frying. 

Bunch of sweet herbs. 

Slice the vegetables, with the exception of the peas, and 
fry them in dripping until brown. Put with the herbs into 
a kettle and cover with the water. Cook slowly two 
hours, reducing the liquid one-third. Pulp the vegetables 
through a colander, return the soup to the fire with the 
rice and peas, and stew half an hour. Season, stir in the 
butter and flour with the sugar. Simmer five minutes 
and serve. 

FRIED SHAD. 

Clean, wash, and wipe a fine roe-shad. Split it and cut 
each side into four or five pieces, leaving out the head and 
tail, and cutting off the fins: Sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per ; roll in flour and fry to a fine brown in plenty of lard 
or dripping, turning as each piece browns. Drain well, 
and serve hot. Garnish with sliced cucumber, pickle and 
parsley, and pass sliced lemon with it. Send around 
mashed potatoes with this dish. 



SECOND WEEK FRIDAY. 313 

ROE CROQUETTES. 

The roes of your shad, parboiled, cooled, and rubbed 
into a loose, granulated mass. 

One fourth as much mashed potato as you have roes. 

cup of drawn butter with a raw egg beaten in it. 

Chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and fa teaspoonful of 
anchovy paste for seasoning. 

Beaten egg and cracker-crumbs. 

Dripping. 

Work roes, potato, drawn butter, and seasoning together; 
put over the fire in a saucepan and stir well until hot. When 
almost cold, make into short rolls, dip in raw egg, then in 
rolled cracker, and fry to a nice brown. Drain in a 
heated colander, and pile upon a hot dish. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Proceed with this oft-repeated and ever- welcome dish as 
I have directed upon other pages. 

STEWED TOMATOES WITH ONION AND BREAD. 

Empty a can of tomatoes into a saucepan, and when 
hot, add a small onion, sliced, with pepper, salt, and a 
little sugar. Stew twenty minutes, and add a tablespoon- 
ful of butter and a good handful of bread-crumbs. Sim- 
mer five minutes more and pour out. 

CUP CUSTARDS BAKED. 

i quart of milk. 

5 eggs. 

5 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Nutmeg and vanilla. 

Powdered sugar for meringue. 

Scald the milk, and pour upon the beaten yolks and 
sugar. Add to this, when you have flavored it, the 
whites of two eggs. Fill small stone-ware cups and set 
in a diipping-pan of boiling water. Bake until " set," 
cover with a meringue made of the whisked whites 
(reserved) and a little powdered sugar. Bake until they 
begin to be tinged. Eat cold from the cups. 
14 



314 MAY. 

CORN-STARCH CAKE. 

Please see " COMMON-SENSE IN THE HOUSEHOLD" Seiiea 
No. i, " General Receipts," page 333. 



Seconb ftleek. Saturirag. 

Sweetbread Soup. 

Beefsteaks. Green Peas. 

Baked Rice. Roast Potatoes. 

Omelette aux Confitures. 
Tea and Albert Biscuits. 

SWEETBREAD SOUP. 

4 Ibs. of lean, coarse veal. 
J- Ib. corned ham. 

2 Ibs. beef bones. 
2 fine sweetbreads. 
Bunch of parsley. 

1 onion. 

2 tablespoonfuls of tapioca, soaked in cold water one 

hour. 
Pepper and salt. 

5 quarts of cold water. 

Cut the meat into strips ; crack the bones ; mince the 
onion and parsley, and put on with the water. Cook 
slowly four hours. Strain ; set aside some bits of 
"ragged" veal and ham for your dish of rice. Put the 
rest into a crock ; seasjn highly and pour on half your 
soup stock setting this by, as usual, in a cool place for 
Sunday. Season the remainder of the broth ; boil and 
skim ; put in the sweetbreads, and cook half an hour. 
Take them out and drop into cold water. Add the 
tapioca to the soup ; simmer ten minutes \ chop the 
sweetbreads, and put them back ; boil one minute and 
serve. 



SECOND WEEK SATURDAY. 315 

BEEFSTEAKS. 

Flatten your steaks with the side of an axe or hatchet, 
taking out the bones for your soup. Butter a gridiron 
if you have no " broiler " and .cook the steaks quickly 
over a bright fire, turning often as they drip. Lay upon 
a hot dish ; butter abundantly and season. Cover with 
another heated platter, and let them stand five minutes 
before serving. 

BAKED RICE. 

Wash a cup of rice well. Take a cupful of broth from 
your soup-pot ; strain through a thin cloth, and add twice 
as much boiling water, with a little salt. Put in the rice 
and cook slowly until it has taken up all the water and is 
soft. Pour in a large cup of hot milk in which have been 
mixed two eggs (raw), two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, 
and a tablespoonful of butter. Stir up well ; add about 
half a cupful of minced veal and ham, taken from your 
soup; turn into a greased mould; cover and bake one 
hour in a dripping-pan of hot water. Dip in cold water, 
and invert upon a flat dish. 

GREEN PEAS. 
See receipts for last Sunday week. 

ROAST POTATOES. 

Roast in a moderate oven until soft. Cut a piece 
nearly off the top of each ; thrust a thin-bladed knife into 
the heart, and slip in a bit of butter. Replace the skin 
and send up hot. 

OMELETTE AUX CONFITURES. 
7 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
cup of milk (or cream). 
Grated peel of \ lemon. 
\ cup of marmalade or jam. 

Beat yolks and whites apart and very stiff. Add sugar, 
lemon, and milk to the yolks ; then, with a few rapid whirls 
of your " beater," the whites. Put the marmalade in the 



MAY. 

bottom of a neat bake-dish (buttered), pour on the omelette^ 
and bake until it has puffed up high and begins to " crust ' ; 
well. Serve at once, or it will fall. Eight minutes should 
suffice to cook it at the, outside. 

TEA AND ALBERT BISCUITS 

May be partaken of at the same time with the omelette, 
or afterwards. 



iri ilUek. Sunba. 



Sago Soup. 

Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton with Potato Edging. 
Boiled Asparagus. Puree of Peas. 



Neapolitan Blanc-Mange. 



SAGO SOUP. 

The stock made on yesterday. 

Little more than cup of pearl sago. 

3 eggs. 

i cup of milk. 

Pepper and salt. 

Take the fat from your cold stock ; pour off carefully 
from the sediment and strain. Heat to boiling. Wash 
the sago well ; soak in warm water half an hour ; put into 
the soup, and simmer twenty- five minutes. Meanwhile, 
heat the milk in another vessel, and pour upon the eggs. 
Heat this until it begins to thicken, pour into the tureen, 
season with a little salt and pepper, and turn in the boil- 
ing soup. It should be about as thick as hot custard 
when all the ingredients are in. 

STUFFED SHOULDER OF MUTTON. 

Get your butcher to take out the bone. (It will help 
out to-morrow's soup.) Fill the hole from which it was 
taken with a good force-meat of crumbs, minced pork, 



THIRD WEEK-SVNDAY. 

sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and one raw egg. Sew up the 
edges of the skin to keep in the stuffing, and roast about 
fifteen minutes not more for each pound, basting often, 
at first with the boiling water you have poured upon it, 
at the last twice with butter. When done, brush with 
beaten egg ; sift crumbs all over it ; put into a stout 
stone-ware dish or one of block-tin surround with the 
potato-edging, and brown in a quick oven. Pour off the 
fat from the gravy, strain, thicken with browned flour, and 
serve in a boat. 

POTATO EDGING. 

Mash the potatoes very soft with milk and butter ; beat 
in two eggs ; return to the saucepan and stir until smoking 
hot all through. Let them get quite cool ; then, mould 
by pressing firmly into a wet egg-cup, and turning out 
each form upon the mutton-dish. Arrange the little cones 
side by side until you have a barricade about the meat. 
Set in the oven and brown, glazing with butter just before 
you take the dish out. Serve a cone with each slice of 
mutton. 

BOILED ASPARAGUS. 

See receipt on first Sunday in May. 

PUR&E OF GREEN PEAS. 
Take for half a peck of peas 

1 small onion. 

3 tablespoonfuls of cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter cut up in one tablespoonful 

of flour. 

i lump of white sugar. 

Pepper and salt. 

Boil the empty pods twenty minutes in hot, salted 
water. Strain these out, and put in the peas with the 
sugar. Boil gently until they are very soft. Rub through 
a fine colander. Add a cupful of the water in which they 
were cooked, pepper and salt, and put over the fire. 
When very hot, stir in the floured butter, and, when this is 
mixed, the cream. Stir three minutes and pour out into 
a dish lined with strips of fried bread. 



3l8 MAY. 

NEAPOLITAN BLANC-MANGE. 

i quart of milk. 

i package Cooper's gelatine, soaked two hours in a cup 
of cold water. 

of a cup of sugar. 

i great spoonful grated chocolate, wet in a little boiling 
water. 

Beaten yolk of an egg. 

i great spoonful currant jelly, or cranberry jam. 

Rose-water for flavoring. 

Heat the milk to boiling, stir in the sugar, then the gela- 
tine. Cook about five minutes, and strain through thin 
muslin. Divide the blanc-mange into four equal portions. 
Beat the chocolate well into one ; heat for one minute, and 
put by in a cup or bowl. Do the same with the egg to a 
second, and the currant jelly for the third. This last 
must be heated carefully, and a little sugar added, that 
the milk may not curdle. Leave the fourth white, and 
flavor with rose-water. When cold and a little stiff, pour 
into a wet mould the white first ; when this is so firm 
as to bear the weight of the next without mixing, the 
pink ; then, the yellow ; lastly, the brown. Do this on 
Saturday. On Sunday dip the mould in warm water, 
work the surface free with your fingers, and turn out upon 
a flat dish. Eat with cream and sugar, or brandied fruit. 



(Eljirb ftlttk. fHonban. 

Clam Soup. 

Cold Mutton, Brussels-Sprouts 

Raw Tomatoes. Stewed Potatoes. 



Oranges and Bananas. 
Coffee and Cake. 



CLAM SOUP. 

Early in the morning crack your mutton-bone, and put 
on in a quart of cold water, at the back of the range. When 



THIRD WEEK MONDAY 319 

little more than a large cupful of liquor remains, take it off 
and strain into a bowl to cool. When perfectly cold take 
off the fat, put in a quart of clam liquor and the hard 
parts of fifty clams. Season with a teaspoonful of minced 
onion, as much chopped parsley, a pinch of mace, pepper 
and salt to taste, and cook, covered, half an hour after 
the boil begins. Heat in another vessel two cups of milk ; 
when hot, stir in two tablespoonfuls of butter, rolled in a 
heaping tablespoonful of flour, and set in boiling water to 
keep hot, after it has boiled two minutes. Strain the soup 
back into the pot, put in the soft parts of the clams the 
only digestible portions and simmer five minutes. Pom 
the thickened milk into the tureen, stir in the soup, and 
serve. 

This is a delightful and nutritious soup, and since you 
are to have cold meat for dinner, you need not grudge 
the care of preparing it, even on Job's birthday. 

COLD MUTTON. 

Your stuffed shoulder will be nearly as nice cold as hot. 
Garnish it tastefully with curled parsley and bleached let- 
tuce-leaves. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Cook in boiling, salted water twenty-five minutes; 
drain well ; add a liberal lump of butter, with pepper ani 
salt to taste, and put into a deep dish. 

RAW TOMATOES. 

Peel with a sharp knife ; slica, and lay in a salad-bo'vl. 
Season with a dressing of oil, vinegar, salt and pepper in 
the proportions given on last Thursday. 

STEWED POTATOES. 

Boil whole until a fork will pierce them. Peel quickly ; 
crack, without breaking, each, by pressing it, and drop 
into a saucepan containing a large cup of milk, almost on 
the boil. When all the potatoes are in, add two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, with salt and pepper. Cover and 
heat below the boiling point until the potatoes begin 
to crumble. Pour into a deep disk 



32O MA T. 

ORANGES AND BANANAS. 
Serve whole, upon china plates, with a knife for each, 

COFFEE AND CAKE. 

You need not be ashamed of " cold meat on Monday," 
even should John have " picked up " his unexpected 
friend on the street, when your bright coffee-urn, with the 
fragrant contents, flanked by a basket of sliced home- 
made cake, comes in as a reserved force. 



tUeek. 

Brown Beef Soup. 

Veal Cutlets with Ham. String Beans. 

Chopped Potatoes. Lettuce. 

Graham Hasty Pudding. 

BROWN BEEF SOUP. 

3 Ibs. of coarse, lean beef, cut into strips. 

3 onions small ones*. 

3 quarts of cold water. 

i teaspoonful mixed allspice and mace. 

Bunch of sweet herbs chopped. 

i teaspoonful Colgate's essence of celery. 

Glass of brown sherry. 

Dripping. 

Toasted bread. 

Fry the sliced onion brown in good dripping ; then the 
beef, quickly. Put into a soup-pot, cover with the water ; 
put on a tight lid, and stew four hours. Strain and press 
hard, Let tl - e soup cool to throw up the fat. Skim, and 
return to the pot, with the salt, pepper, herbs, and spice. 
Simmer fifteen minutes; add wine and celery, and poui 
into a tureen upon dice of crisp, buttered toast. 



THIRD WEEK TUESDAY. $21 

VEAL CUTLETS AND HAM. 

2 Ibs. veal cutlets without bone. 

i \ Ibs. of ham. 

Grated lemon-peel. 

Pepper and salt. - 

i raw, beaten egg. 

Rolled cracker. 

Dripping or lard. 

Boil the slices of ham ten minutes ; let them get cold, 
and cut of the same size and shape as the strips of veal, 
viz., about three inches long by one and a half wide. 
Salt and pepper the veal ; sprinkle each cutlet with a pinch 
of lemon-peel ; roll in egg, then cracker, and fry to a 
good brown. Fry 'the ham in its own fat in another pan, 
and lay upon a hot dish, alternately with the cutlets. 

STRING-BEANS. 

If fresh, top and tail, and, with a sharp knife, take off 
the strings on both sides. Cut into short pieces, and cook 
tender in boiling water, and a little salt. Drain well, 
heap upon a hot dish ; butter freely, and season to taste. 

CHOPPED POTATOES. 

Chop cold boiled potatoes rather coarsely. Have 
ready a great spoonful of butter in a saucepan, with a 
little grated lemon-peel, pepper and salt. Stir in the 
potatoes until very hot, but do not let them brown. 
Serve in a deep dish, after draining. 

LETTUCE. 

Pick out and pull apart the hearts and best blanched 
leaves. Pour over it a dressing such as was directed on 
last Thursday. 

GRAHAM HASTVT PUDDING. 
2 eggs. 

1 quart of milk. 

2 even cups of Graham flour. 
teaspoonful of salt. 

i tablespoonful of butter. 
14* 



322 MA y 

Heat half ihe milk in a greased saucepan or farina 
kettle. Wet the flour with the rest, and beat very light 
with the butter melted the eggs and salt. Stir this 
into the hot milk or, better still pour the milk upon it. 
When thoroughly mixed, return to the fire, and stir fifteen 
minutes, surrounded by boiling water at its highest bub- 
ble. Take from the range, leave in the water five minutes ; 
stir up again, and serve in a deep, uncovered dish. Eat 
with butter, sugar, and nutmeg. 



<KI)uir 

Green Asparagus Soup. 

Stewed Chicken. Scalloped Tomatoes. 

Corn Fritters. Grape Jelly. 

Marmalade Roll. 

GREEN ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

3 Ibs. knuckle of veal. 
\ Ib. streaked salt pork. 

3 bunches of asparagus. 

4 quarts of water. 

i pint of spinach leaves. 

Pepper and salt. 

i small onion, sliced. 

Butter and sugar. 

Put the veal, pork, onion, and the hard parts of the 
asparagus-stalks all cut up fine on in the water, and 
boil gently four hours. Meanwhile cook the spinach 
tender in a little water ; chop and squeeze it through 
double tarlatan back into the cupful of water in which it 
was boiled. Add a lump of sugar to the green liquid. 
Strain the soup ; season, boil once, and skim ; put in the 
green heads of the asparagus (kept until now in cold 
water) and boil slowly twenty minutes. Stir in two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, .rolled in flour, and when this has boiled 



THIRD WEEK WEDNESDAY. 323 

a minute, the green water. Simmer five minutes more, 
and pour out. Dip up from the bottom with each ladle- 
ful in helping the soup. 

STEWED CHICKEN. 

Cut into joints, leaving none of the pieces large. Put 
the scrags, feet (having scalded off the skin), and giblets 
into two cupfuls of water, and stew until the meat is in 
rags. Put a quarter of a pound of pork, cut as fine as 
shavings, in the bottom of a saucepan ; lay on this a tea- 
spoonful of minced onion, and then the uncooked chick- 
en. Strain, and partly cool the gravy, which should have 
boiled down to one cupful setting by the giblets. Pour 
this over the chicken, pepper and salt ; put on a tight top, 
and cook very slowly one hour. Then increase the heat, 
but still do not let it boil hard, for half an hour longer. 
Open the saucepan at the end of the first hour to change the 
upper pieces to lower places and again when the half 
hour is up, to see if they are all tender. If not, cover and 
cook until they afe. Take out the chicken, lay in order 
upon a hot-water dish, and add to the gravy the giblets, 
minced fine, and a tablespoonful of butter rubbed into 
one of flour. Boil one minute, and pour upon a half cup 
of milk in which have been beaten two eggs. Set over the 
fire, and stir one minute, but do not let the gravy boil. 
Pour upon the chicken. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

If raw tomatoes are dear still, drain off most of the 
liquor from a can of the vegetable. Cover the bottom of 
a pie-dish with bread-crumbs, lay in the tomatoes, well 
seasoned with butter, pepper, salt, and sugar ; cover 
thickly with fine, dry crumbs ; put dots of butter, with 
pepper and salt, over all, and bake, covered, half an hoiu 
then, brown quickly. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

Drain the liquor from a can of corn, and chop the 
grains in a chopping- tray. Beat into this paste three 
eggs, one cup of milk, a heaping tablespoonful of sugar, 



324 MAY. 

and as much warmed butter, with two tablespoonfuls of 
prepared flour. Beat thoroughly, season with pepper and 
salt, and fry, by the spoonful, upon a greased griddle. 

MARMALADE ROLL. 

i quart prepared flour Keeker's always, when you 
can get it. 

i tablespoonful of lard and two of butter. 

i pint of milk, or enough for soft dough. 

i cup of sweet marmalade. 

Rub the lard into the flour ; wet into a soft paste with 
the milk, and roll out very thin. Baste thickly with the 
butter, sprinkle with flour lightly, and roll up in close folds. 
Lay upon ice, or in a very cold place, one hour. Roll 
out into a square sheet, a quarter of an inch thick, spread 
with the marmalade, leaving a narrow margin all around, 
and roll up neatly. Lay in a buttered bakingr-pan, the 
joined edge downward, and bake three-quarteis of an 
hour. Wash over with white of egg, beaten with a little 
sugar, just before you take it up. Eat hot with a good 
sauce. 



Sljtrtr ttteek. 



Sheep's Head Soup. 
Roast Beef. Fried Potatoes. 

Asparagus with Eggs. Spinach on Toast. 

Corn Starch Blanc-Mange with Preserves. 

SHEEP'S HEAD SOUP. 

1 sheep's head, dressed with the skin on. 

2 onions. 
2 carrots. 
Bunch of parsley. 

Crumbs and egg for force-meat balls. 
i tablespoonful of corn -starch. 



THIRD WEEK THURSDAY. 325 

Pepper and salt. 

Dripping. 

4 quarts of cold water. 

You will probably have to coax your butcher to dress 
the head properly, but the head itself he will be willing to 
give you, as almost worthless in his eyes. Be sure it is 
quite clean, even to the mouth. Soak it in tepid water, 
one hour then put into a pot with the vegetables, sliced, 
the chopped herbs and the cold water. Cook gently four 
hours. Strain off the soup, rubbing the vegetables 
through the sieve ; let it get almost cool, that you may 
remove the fat from the top, and put back over the fire 
with pepper and salt. Chop the brains and mix them 
into a paste with an equal quantity of crumbs ; also 
pepper, salt, and raw egg, with enough flour to enable you 
to roll into little balls. Fry these to a nice brown, drain 
in a colander, and put into your tureen. Skim the boiling 
soup and stir in the corn -starch wet with half a cup of milk, 
then the tongue, skinned and cut into dice. Boil once 
and pour into the tureen. 

ROAST BEEF. 

Put into your dripping-pan ; pour a cupful of boiling 
water over it, and roast, basting often, allowing a quarter 
of an hour to the pound. Towards the last, pepper and 
salt, dredge with flour, and baste once well with butter. 
If you send made gravy to the table, take off all the " top- 
grease," thicken the brown juice in the dripping-pan with 
browned flour, boil up, and pour out into a -boat. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Cut peeled potatoes into long strips, not too thin. Lay 
in cold water one hour, dry between two towels, and fry 
in boiling fat, a little salt, to a light brown. Drain and 
dish upon a napkin. 

SPINACH UPON TOAST. 

Wash well. Cook twenty minutes in boiling, salted 
water. Drain and chop very fine. Put a tablespoonfu 



326 MAY. 

of butter into a saucepan with a teaspoonful of sugar, a 
pinch of nutmeg, and pepper and salt. Stir in the spinach, 
and beat smooth while it heats. At the last add a table- 
spoonful of cream, or two of milk. Pour upon crustless 
slices of buttered toast laid upon a flat dish. 

ASPARAGUS WITH EGGS. 

Boil a bunch of asparagus twenty minutes ; cut off the 
tender tops and lay in a deep pie-plate, buttering, salting, 
and peppering well. Beat four eggs just enough to break 
up the yolks, add a tablespoonful of melted butter, with 
pepper and salt, and pour upon the asparagus. Bake eight 
minutes in a quick oven, and serve immediately. 

CORN-STARCH BLANC-MANGE WITH PRESERVES. 

i quart of milk. 

4 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch wet in cold water. 

3 beaten- eggs. 

i cup of sugar. 

Grated peel of half a lemon. 

i saltspoonful of salt. 

Scald the milk in a farina-kettle ; stir in corn-starch, 
lemon, and salt, and cook five minutes. Pour this upon 
the beaten eggs and sugar, return to the fire and stir two 
minutes more. Pour into a wet mould and set in a cold 
place for four or five hours. Turn out upon a broad 
glass dish, and pour rich, sweet preserves about the base. 
In helping it out, put a spoonful of preserve upon each 
share of blanc-mange. 



THIRD WEEK FRIDAY. 327 



tfleek. Jritrag. 

Puree of Tomatoes. 

Boiled Bass with Mushrooms. Roast Sweetbreads. 
Mashed Potatoes. Succotash. 

Strawberry Meringue. 

PURISE OF TOMATOES. 

1 can of tomatoes. 

2 cups boiling milk with half a teaspoonful of soda 

stirred in. 
i heaping teaspoonful sugar. 

1 small minced onion. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed up with one of flour. 
Pepper and salt. 

Handful of dry bread-crumbs. 

i cup of boiling water. 

Put tomatoes and onion over the fire with the hot water. 
Boil half an hour ; strain and rub through a colander, 
working the tomatoes to a pulp. Meanwhile, boil the 
milk, stir in soda, butter and flour, and after one boil, 
keep hot. Put pepper, salt, and sugar with the tomatoes ; 
simmer five minutes ; pour into the tureen ; stir in the 
crumbs, and one minute later the thickened milk. Serve 
at once. If the milk be cooked with the puree, it will 
almost surely curdle. 

BOILED BASS WITH MUSHROOMS. 
Clean a fine bass, and sew up in a thin cloth. Put into 
boiling water in which you have mixed four tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar, with six whole black peppers, and a little 
salt. Cook about twelve minutes to the pound. Prepare 
a cupful of drawn butter, boil half a can of mushrooms 
twenty mifiutes ; drain, chop up and stir, with the juice 
of half a lemon and a little pepper, into the drawn butter. 
Simmer together three minutes put the fish upon a hot 
dish, and pour one-third of the sauce over it, serving the 
rest in a boat. 



328 MAY. 

ROAST SWEETBREADS. 

3 or 4 fine sweetbreads. 

i raw egg. 

cup rolled crackers. 

1 cup of gravy (saved from yesterday's fricassee). 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

i tablespoonful mushroom or walnut catsup. 

Pepper and salt. 

Rounds of fried bread. 

Parboil and blanch the sweetbreads. Dry, and dip, 
first, in egg, then, in cracker-crumbs. Lay in a small 
dripping-pan ; pour the butter over them, set in the oven, 
and roast, covered, three-quarters of an hour, basting 
often with the gravy. Dish upon fried bread. Add the cat- 
sup to the gravy ; boil up and strain over the sweetbreads. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Prepare as usual, and pass with the fish. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Drain off the can -liquor; cook the succotash half an 
hour in boiling water ; drain, add a cup of hot milk, and 
stir in pepper, salt, and a great spoonful of butter cut up 
in flour. Simmer three minutes and pour out. 

STRAWBERRY MERINGUE. 

Make a good puff-paste, cut out large, and round as a 
dinner-plate, and bake to a light brown in a quick oven. 
Draw to the oven door ; lay strawberries, rolled in sugar, 
over it, and cover these an inch deep with a meringue 
made of the whites of four eggs whisked stiff, with three 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Bake until the 
meringue is faintly tinged with yellow brown. Eat fresh, 
but not hot. It is delicious. 



THIRD WEEK SATURDAY. 

ffiljirb tUedxv 

Amber Soup. 

Ham and Omelette. Ladies Cabbage. 

Buttered Rice. Summer Salad. 



Irish Potato Pie. 



AMBER SOUP. 

This soup should be prepared very early in the day 3 
therefore, have the materials in the house overnight. 

4 Ibs. lean beef. 

2 slices of lean ham. 
2 Ibs. of veal-bones. 
2 onions, sliced and fried. 
, i carrot. 

2 teaspoonfuls essence of celery. 
Pepper, and, if required, salt. 
\ cup granulated tapioca. 
Whites and shell of an egg. 

5 quarts of cold water. 
Butter and dripping. 
Burnt sugar. 

Cut the meat into strips ; put two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter into a soup-pot, and lay the meat in it. Let it stand 
where it will heat slowly for half an hour. Then set over 
the fire, and stir until the meat is glazed with a brownish 
crust. Put a quart of water cold upon it, and bring 
gradually to a boil. Fry the onion and carrot in dripping 
to a fine brown, and drain off the fat, then put the vege- 
tables into the pot with the meat, as soon as the latter is 
boiling hot. Cook half an hour ; put in the rest of the cold 
water, the minced ham, and the bones broken to bits. Boil 
slowly four hours, then strain. Put meat and bones highly 
seasoned into a stone vessel, and pour half the soup over 
them for to-morrow. Put the rest back into the soup-ket- 
tle ; season and boil up. Skim with care ; put in the 
white and shell of an egg; boil three minutes; take from 
the fire and pour into a broad pan to cool. Burn two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar in a tin cup, on the hot range, and 



330 MAY. 

while still liquid, pour in half a cupful of boiling water, 
Let it stand thus until you are ready for it. The tapioca 
should have been soaking two hours in a little cold water. 
When the soup is cold, take off fat and scum every parti- 
cle ; return to the scalded pot ; boil up once, put in tapi- 
oca, and strain the sugar-water upon it. Simmer ten min- 
utes, or until the tapioca is clear ; skim once again, and 
pour out. 

This is a fine company soup, but you should make it 
once or twice for family dinners in order to manage it 
properly. It is really not difficult. 

HAM AND OMELETTE. 

3 Ibs. of ham, cut in very thin slices. 
7 eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls of milk. 
Pepper and a little salt. 

i large spoonful of butter. 

Lay the ham in boiling water fifteen minutes, then let 
it get cold. Cut off all the rind and trim each slice neatly ; 
then broil upon a greased gridiron. Pepper and keep hot 
while you prepare the omelette. Beat whites and yolks 
together with a few whirls of the beater ; put in the milk 
and beat fast for one minute ; season and pour into a frying- 
pan in which the butter is heating not hissing. Shake 
briskly over the fire, slipping your cake-turner under it to 
prevent sticking, and in four minutes, double it over in 
the middle and turn out into a hot dish by a dexterous 
inversion of the pan. Lay the ham about it in the dish. 

LADIES' CABBAGE. 

Boil a firm cabbage in two waters, and let it get per- 
fectly cold. Chop fine ; add two beaten eggs, a table- 
spoonful of melted butter, pepper, salt, and a few spoon- 
fuls of milk. Stir all up well ; put into a buttered bake- 
dish, strew with fine crumbs ; bake, covered, half an hour, 
then brown quickly. Eat hot. 

BUTTERED RICE. 

Boil a cup of rice soft in hot, salted water. Drain, and 
heap in a deep dish. Fry an onion (sliced) very lightly 



FOURTH WEEK SUNDAY. 33* 

in two tablespoonfuls of/ butter ; add pepper, and strain 
the hot butter over the rice in the dish. Pass grated 
cheese with it. 

SUMMER SALAD. 

3 heads of lettuce. 

2 handfuls cresses. 

i cucumber, pared and sliced. 

4 radishes, also pared and cut up. 

3 hard-boiled eggs cut lengthwise into sixths. 

Cut lettuces and cresses with a sharp knife, and mix 
with the other vegetables in a bowl. Pour over them a 
dressing made as directed on Thursday of the second 
week in this month. Lay the sliced eggs on the top of all. 

IRISH POTATO PIE. 

i Ib. mashed potato, rubbed through a colander. 
J- Ib. butter, creamed with the sugar. 
6 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 
i lemon, squeezed into the hot potato. 

1 teaspoonful of nutmeg, and the same of mace. 

2 cups of sugar. 

Mix as you would cake, putting the whites in last, and 
bake in open shells of paste.- Eat cold. 



Jonrtlj tUcck. * 



German Sago Soup. 
Roast Lamb. Green Peas. 

Young Onions, Stewed. Potato Puff. 



Strawberries and Cream. 
Silver Cake. 

GERMAN SAGO SOUP. 

Soak half a cup of German sago in a little cold water 
for two hours. Take the fat from the top of your soup 



33 2 MAY. 

stock, and pour off carefully from the bones, etc. If you 
have any left from the " amber soup," add that, and a 
cupful of boiling water. Heat, season, and skim ; put in 
the sago, and simmer half an hour. 

ROAST LAMB. 

Cook as you did the mutton, last Sunday, leaving out 
the stuffing and omitting the egg and crumb coating at 
the last. Roast about twelve minutes to the pound. 

GREEN PEAS. 
See receipt for Saturday of second week in May. 

YOUNG ONIONS STEWED. 

Cook ten minutes in boiling water ; throw this off, and 
pour on a cup of cold milk. Stew tender in .this, add 
pepper, salt, a tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour ; 
simmer five minutes and turn out. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Mash the potatoes very soft, beating in butter, and 
milk, and finally, the whipped white of an egg. Whisk to 
a cream ; heap roughly in a neat bake-dish and brown in 
a good oven. 

STRAWBERRIES AND CREAM. 

Cap and pile the strawberries in a glass dish. Send 
around powdered sugar and a pitcher of cream with them. 

SILVER CAKE. 

This delicate and handsome cake should have been 
made on Friday or Saturday. Please see "COMMON- 
SENSE IN. THE HOUSEHOLD," Series No. i, Geneial Re 
ceipts, page 332. 



FOURTH WEEK MONDAY. 333 



.fourtt) tihek. JHontrag. 

Baked Hotch-Potch. 

Minced Lamb, with Poached Eggs. 

Potato Cakes. Raw Tomatoes. 



Bread Pudding. 

BAKED HOTCH-POTCH. 

2 Ibs. of lean beef. 

i lb.-of good sausage-meat. 
i sliced onion. 
i sliced cucumber. 

3 raw tomatoes peeled and sliced. 
Handful of asparagus tops. 

1 sliced carrot. 

\ of a cabbage-heart, chopped fine. 
cup of raw rice. 

2 cups of green peas. 
Pepper and salt. 
Cold water. 

Cut the meat small and put in alternate layers with the 
vegetables and rice, into a stout stone jar. Pour in three 
quarts of water, when you have seasoned the vegetables. 
Fit a close cover on the jar, sealing around the edges with 
a paste of flour and water. Set in the oven early in the 
day and do not open for six hours ; then pour into the 
tureen. This is a good soup for Monday, and almost a 
dinner in itself. 

MINCED LAMB.- 

Cut the meat from the bone of your cold roast. Salt 
the bone and put by for another day's soup. Mince the 
meat fine, season highly ; put the gravy left from yester- 
day (or a cup of your Sunday's soup would be even bet- 
ter) in a saucepan, when you have taken off the fat, heat 
it, and stir in the mince. Make it very hot ; thicken with 
a little browned flour if it is too thin, and pile up in a flat 
dish, with poached eggs and toast wiit it. 



334 MAY. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Nearly fill a frying-pan with boiling water. Add a little 
salt and vinegar. Break your eggs, one at a time, into a 
wet saucer, and slip from this upon the surface of the 
water. Cook slowly three minutes ; take up with a per- 
foiated skimmer, and lay carefully upon rounds of but- 
tered toast laid around the minced lamb. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Work cold mashed potato or the remains of your 
" puff," soft with a little melted butter and milk ; knead 
into it enough prepared flour to enable you to roll it out 
into a sheet half an inch thick. Cut into rounds like bis- 
cuit, and bake in a floured pan rather quickly to a good 
brown. Glaze with butter just before you take them out. 
Eat hot. 

RAW TOMATOES. 

Please see receipt for last Monday. 

BREAD PUDDING. 
2 cups fine crumbs. 

1 quart of milk. 

Ib. of citron cut into short shavings. 

4 eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

teaspoonful mixed cinnamon and mace. 

2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. 

i tablespoonful melted butter. 

Soak the crumbs in the milk to a soft paste. Put a 
layer of this into a buttered bake-dish. Sprinkle with cit- 
ron, then spice, and cover with more soaked crumbs. 
Having nearly filled the dish in this order, pour over all 
the eggs whipped light with sugar, butter, and brandy. 
Bake covered twenty-five minutes, then brown. Eat 
warm. It will need no sauce. 



FOURTH WEEK TUESDAY. 335 



tDeek. 



Cracker Soup. 

Beefsteak and Onion. Green Peas, 

Baked Corn. Cress- Salad. 

Jersey Puffs. 



CRACKER SOUP. 

The cracked bone of the cold lamb. 

1 Ib. lean mutton, chopped up. 
\ Ib. Boston crackers, split. 

2 quarts of cold water. 

2 cups boiling milk, with a pinch of soda stirred in. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, cut up in one teaspoonful of 
flour. 

Pepper, salt, and a pinch of mace. 

i sliced onion. 

A little chopped parsley. 

Put meat, onion, and bones on in the water and cock 
slowly two hours. Strain and cool, and take off every 
particle of fat. While the soup is cooling, put your 
crackers into a bowl, or tin pail, salting and peppering 
them. Pour on the milk, cover closely, and set for half 
an hour in boiling water at one side of the range. Return 
the broth to the fire, season and skim as it heats. Now 
strain the milk from the crackers, if it be not all absorbed, 
and turn them, with care, into your tureen. They should 
be like a jelly, yet retain their shape. Stir into the soup 
the floured butter and parsley ; boil one minute and pour 
slowly upon the crackers. Set the tureen in hot water - 
covered ten minutes, before sending to the table. 

BEEFSTEAK AND ONION. 

Broil the steak in the usual manner and lay upon a hot 
dish. Pepper and salt, and strain over it three table- 
spoonfuls of butter in which a sliced Bermuda onion has 
simmered not browned for ten minutes. Cover with 



MAY. 

a hot tin platter for five minutes, and make cuts in the 
steak, here and there, to draw out the juices and enable 
the butter to penetrate it. This is a nicer way of flavor- 
ing a steak than the usual fashion of serving the onion 
with it. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Boil twenty minutes in hot, salted water, with a lump 
of white sugar, unless the peas are newly gathered from 
the home garden. When tender, drain well, pepper, and 
add a generous lump of butter. Serve hot. 

BAKED CORN. 

Open a can of sweet corn ; drain and chop it fine. 
Beat up three eggs with a tablespoonful of sugar, the same 
of butter, two cups of milk, pepper and salt to taste. Stir 
in the corn and bake forty-five minutes in a buttered pud- 
ding-dish. 

CRESS-SALAD. 

Cut up not too small pile in a salad bowl, sprinkle 
with sugar, and pour over it a dressing made by working 
up a saltspoonful each of salt, pepper, and made mustard 
with two tablespoonfuls of oil, and when this is well mixed, 
adding, a few drops at a time, and whipping these in with 
an egg-beater, four tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Toss up 
with a silver fork. 

JERSEY PUFFS. 

i quart Keeker's prepared flour, sifted with a saltspoon- 
ful of salt. 

i tablespoonful of butter melted in 2 cups of hot milk. 

5 e gg s very well whisked. 

While milk and butter are cooling a little above 
blood-heat beat in the yolks, then the flour, and let the 
batter get stone cold before whipping in the frothed 
whites. Bake in greased muffin rings in a quick oven. 
Serve as soon as they are baked. Tear oyen with your 
fingers, and eat with liquid sauce. 



FOURTH WEEK -WEDNESDAY. 337 

Jburtl) 



Scotch Broth. 

Roast Chickens and Pork. Asparagus Pudding. 

Mashed Potatoes. Tomato Salad. 

Chocolate Blanc-Mange. 

SCOTCH BROTH. 

3 Ibs. scrag of mutton, the meat sliced and bones broken 
2 chopped carrots. 

2 young turnips, sliced, 
i onion; 

Rather more than cup of barley. 

3 quarts of water. 

i quart of green peas. 

Pepper and salt. 

Put on the mutton and all the vegetables, except the 
peas, in the water, and cook slowly four hours. Mean- 
while, soak the barley in a cup of tepid water. Strain 
the broth, pulping the vegetables through the colander. 
Let it cool, and take off the fat. Season, put over the 
fire, skim when it reaches the boil, and add peas and 
barley. Simmer steadily half an hour, and serve. 

ROAST CHICKENS AND PORK. 

Clean, wash, and stuff a pair of chickens. Slice half a 
pound of fat salt pork very thin and bind with soft strings 
over the breasts and upper parts of the bodies. Lay in a 
dripping-pan ; pour in a cup of boiling water, and roast 
one hour in a good oven, basting often. Then clip the 
strings, lay the pork in the pan ; dredge the chickens with 
flour, and, as this colors, baste once with butter, and twice 
afterwards with gravy. When the chickens are done to a 
fine brown, lay upon a hot dish with the pork about them. 
Strain and skim the gravy, pepper it, thicken with a little 
browned flour and serve in a boat. 



33$ MAY. 

ASPARAGUS PUDDING. 

The green tops of two bunches of asparagus, boiled 

tender, left to cool, and cut up small. 
4 eggs, well beaten. 
T tablespoonful melted butter. 

3 tablespoonfuls prepared flour. 

i scant cup of milk, with a pinch of soda stirred in. 

Pepper and salt. 

Beat eggs, butter, pepper and salt together; add the 
flour; then, by degrees, the milk, finally the asparagus. 
Put into a well-greased mould with a top, and cook in a 
pot of boiling water nearly two hours. Turn out upon a 
dish and pour a cup of drawn butter over it. It is very 
nice. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Prepare in the customary way, taking care not to have 
them too stiff. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Pare with a sharp knife ; slice and lay in a salad-bowl. 
Make a dressing such as was directed yesterday for your 
cresses, with the addition of the yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs, powdered, and worked in with the oil, pepper, etc. 
Pour over the tomatoes, and set upon ice for an hour. 

CHOCOLATE BLANC-MANGE. 

i quart milk. 

1 package Cooper's gelatine, soaked for one hour in a 

cup of cold water. 

4 heaping tablespoonfuls of chocolate wet in a little 

milk. 
| of a cup of sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla essence. . 

Boil the milk ; stir in sugar and gelatine, and when 
these are dissolved, the chocolate. Cook five minutes, 
stirring all the time, and strain through double tarlatan, 
into a wet mould. Set upon ice to form. When firm, 
turn out and eat with sweet cream. 



FOURTH WEEK THURSDAY. 339 

Jburtl) 



Mock Turtle Soup. 

Boiled Corned Beef. Young Turnips. 

Casserole of Rice with Calf s Brains. Green Pea Fritters. 



Bananas, Oranges, Nuts, and Raisins. 
Tea, Toasted Crackers, and Cheese. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

As I stated, after writing out the receipt in full for 
this soup (see Wednesday Third Week in March), I 
shall not repeat it in this volume. Please, therefore, refer 
to the minute directions then given, and follow them in 
preparing to-day's soup only leaving out the brains in 
the force-meat. You may make enough soup for two 
days, keeping that for Friday upon the ice. 

BOILED CORNED BEEF. 

Select a piece not too salt. The brisket is a good cut 
for family use, when not too fat. Boil in plenty of hot 
water, allowing fifteen minutes per pound. Make a good 
cup of drawn butter, taking some of the beef-liquor 
strained as a base. Chop up a little parsley and half a 
pickled onion, and stir into the butter one minute before 
pouring it out into a sauce-boat. Save the liquor for Sat- 
urday. For directions for making drawn butter and other 
sauces, please consult " General Receipts," page 183. 

YOUNG TURNIPS. 

Peel and quarter. Cook in boiling water, a little salted, 
about half an hour, or until tender. Drain, but do not 
mash. Pepper and salt, then butter, after dishing them, 

CASSEROLE OF RICE WITH CALF'S BRAINS. 

Make a cupful of gravy from the bones and stuffing of 
yesterday's chickens. Cool and skim it. Soak a cup of 



340 MAY. 

rice two hours in two cups of cold water ; drain tltfs off; 
put the rice into a farina-kettle with the gravy, previously 
heated to a boil, and a cup of boiling water. Season 
with salt and pepper, and cook tender, shaking up once 
in a while, but not stirring. When the rice is nearly dry, 
make a rounded hillock of it in the middle of a dish ; 
strew with grated cheese, and brown upon the upper 
grating of the oven. 

Boil the calf's brains ten minutes ; lay in cold water 
twice as long. Then dry well and beat up with an egg, 
pepper, salt, and a very little flour. Fry, by the spoonful, 
in hot fat, drain, and lay around the rice. 

GREEN PEA FRITTERS. 

1 pint boiled green peas, mashed while hot, with pep- 

per, butter, and salt. 

2 beaten eggs, 
i cup of milk. 

Less than cup prepared flour. 

Beat eggs, milk, and mashed peas smooth, then add the 
flour and fry upon a griddle as you would breakfast-cakes. 

BANANAS, ORANGES, NUTS AND RAISINS. 

Pile bananas and oranges together, garnishing with green 
leaves. Put nuts and raisins upon two smaller dishes 
Pass all at the same course. 

TEA, TOASTED CRACKERS, AND CHEESE. 

If you have a hot-water pot and a spirit lamp, make the 
tea upon the table a few minutes before it is needed, then 
cover the pot with a "cozy." This is a pretty English 
fashion which, I am glad to see, is gaining ground in our 
country. Butter the split crackers while hot, and send 
around with the tea and cheese. 



FOURTH WEEK FRIDAY. 34* 



Jotirtl) lUedt. Jribag. 

Yesterday's Soup. 

Lobster Fricassee. Potato Pasty. 

String-Bean:-. Boiled Asparagus. 



Strawberry Shortcake with Cream. 

YESTERDAY'S SOUP. 

Take the fat from the top of the cake of soup-jelly you 
will find in the refrigerator, and warm the stock cautiously, 
lest it should scorch. It should not quite boil. 

LOBSTER FRICASSEE. 

Meat of one large lobster, boiled and cold. 

i cup of your soup. 

cup of milk. 

Juice of half a lemon. 

i tablespoonful of butter, rolled in flour. 

Pepper and salt to liking. 

Cut the lobster into dice. Put the gravy, pepper, and 
salt into a saucepan, and, when hot, the lobster. Cook 
gently five minutes, and put in the lemon. Heat the milk 
in another vessel, stir in the floured butter ; boil up ; turn 
into a deep bowl. Pour the lobster in also, stir up faith- 
fully, and turn into a deep disn. 

POTATO PASTY. 

Chop your cold, boiled beef fine ; season with pepper 
and add the remains of yesterday's drawn butter, or make 
more if you have none, putting in parsley and onion 
pickle, chopped. Pour this mixture into a greased bake* 
dish ; cover with hard-boiled eggs, sliced. Work a large 
cup of mashed potato soft with a cup of milk and two 
tablespoonfuls of butter. Add prepared flour until you 
can just roll it out the softer the better, so long as you 
can handle it. Roll into a thick sheet ; spread upon the 
surface of your miiice, printing the edges, and bake in a 
moderate oven to a fine brown. 



342 MAY. 

STRING-BEANS. 
See Tuesday, Third Week in May. 

BOILED ASPARAGUS. 
Receipt given First Sunday in May. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE WITH CREAM. 

i cup of powdered sugar, creamed with one tablespoon- 
ful of butter. . 

3 e gg s - 

1 cup of prepared flour, heaping. 

2 tables poonfuls of cream. 

Beat the yolks into the creamed butter and sugar ; the 
cream, then the whites, alternately with the flour. Bake 
in three jelly-cake tins. When cold, lay between the 
cakes nearly a quart of fresh, ripe strawberries. Sprinkle 
each layer with powdered sugar, and sift the same whitely 
over the top. Eat fresh with cream poured upon each 
slice. 



Jcmrtl) ItJeck. Saturbag. 

Pea and Potato Soup. 

Stewed Mutton Cutlets. Green Peas. 

Raw Tomatoes. Potato Scallops. 



Fig Pudding. 

PEA AND" POTATO SOUP. 

The liquor in which your beef was boiled on Thursday. 
10 parboiled potatoes, 
i pint of green peas, 
i sliced onion. 
cup raw rice. 
Pepper and parsley. 

Take the fat from the liquor, and put on with the onion 
and potatoes, sliced. Cook one hour ; strain, rubbing the 



FOURTH WEEK SATURDAY. 343 

vegetables through the sieve. Pepper, and return to the 
fire with the rice, parsley, and peas. Stew half an hour, 
or until the rice is tender. Pour out and serve. Dip up 
from the bottom in helping it out. 

STEWED MUTTON CUTLETS. 

3 Ibs. of mutton cutlets. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

2 raw tomatoes, chopped. 

Pepper and salt. 

cup of boiling water. 

Browned flour and currant jelly. 

Put the butter into a saucepan, and lay in the cutlets, 
then the tomatoes. Set where they will heat very slowly 
for one hour. Then turn the meat, add the boiling 
water, and stew steadily not fast half an hour, keeping 
the pan closely covered. Lay the cutlets upon a hot 
dish, strain the gravy back into the saucepan, thicken 
with a littled browned flour, stir in a heaping teaspoonful 
of currant jelly, and when this has melted, pour over the 
meat. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Cook as directed on Tuesday of this week. 

RAW TOMATOES. 

See " Tomato Salad " on Wednesday. Leave out the 
boiled eggs. 

POTATO SCALLOPS. 

Mash the potatoes light with a little milk, and an even 
tablespoonful of butter for every cupful. Salt and pepper 
to taste. Fill buttered patty-pans, or scallop-shells with 
the mixture, sift fine crumbs over the tops, and brown in 
a good oven. Serve in the shells. 

FIG PUDDING. 

J Ib. best white figs, washed, dried, and minced. 

2 cups of fine trumbs. 

3 eggs. 

J- cup of beef-suet, powdered. 



344 MAY. 

2 scant cups of milk. 
J- cup of white sugar. 
A little salt. 

A pinch of soda, dissolved in hot water, and stirred into 
the milk. 

Soak the crumbs in the milk. Stir in the eggs beaten 
light with the sugar, suet, salt, and figs. Beat hard three 
minutes ; pour into a buttered mould and boil two hours 
and a half. Eat hot with wine sauce. 



FIRST WEEK SUNDAY. 345 

JUNE. 

JFtrst ilUek. Stwbag. 

All-night Soup. 

Roast Beef and Round Potatoes. 
Boiled Macaroni. Green Peas. 



Snow Custard. 

ALL-NIGHT SOUP. 

4 Ibs. of coarse lean beef. 

3 slices of lean ham. 
2 onions. 

2 turnips. 

2 carrots. 

2 blades of mace. 

Bunch of sweet herbs. 

6 tomatoes. 

Pepper and salt. 

\ cupful of German sago. 

4 quarts of water. 

i tablespoonful of walnut catsup. 

Cut the meat into dice, and chop the vegetables. Sea- 
son, as you put them with sago and herbs in close layers, 
into a jar with a tight top. About eight o'clock on Satur- 
day night, set this in a pot of boiling water (having tied a 
thick cloth over the lid of the jar) and cook until bed- 
time. Leave pot and jar upon the range. When the fire 
is built next day see that there is plenty of water in the 
pot, and pay no more attention to your soup, except to 
replenish the water in the pot with more, as hot from the 
tea-kettle, until half an hour before dinner is served. 
Then strain the contents of the jar, pressing the vegeta- 
bles to a pulp. Divide the broth into two portions. 
Return one to the jar, with the meat, and set, when cold, 

IS* 



346 JUNE. 

in the refrigeratoi for to-morrow. Put the other into a 
saucepan, boil two minutes, skim, add the catsup, and 
pour into the tureen. Mem. : Never forget to let the 
soup stand in a broad bowl after straining, long enough 
for the fat to rise and be skimmed off. 

ROAST BEEF AND ROUND POTATOES. 

Roast the meat in the usual manner, and, about half 
an hour before taking it out, pour off three-quarters of 
the gravy from the dripping-pan and lay about the meat 
some balls of mashed potato, worked smooth, with pep- 
per, salt and a raw egg, moulded in your hands, and 
rolled in flour. Turn as they brown, and, when done, 
drain off the grease, and dish with the beef. 

BOILED MACARONI. 

Break half a pound of macaroni into short pieces ; cook 
about twenty minutes in salted boiling water. It should 
be clear at the edges, but not ragged. Drain well, pep- 
per and salt, and stir in a tablespooriful of butter. Strew 
grated cheese over the top when dished, and pass more 
with it at table. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Cook from twenty to twenty-five minutes in boiling 
water, a little salt. Drain very well when tender, stir in 
a great lump of peppered butter, and serve hot in a vege- 
table dish. 

SNOW CUSTARD. 

J package of Coxe's gelatine. 

3 eggs. 

2 cups of milk. 

2 cups of sugar. 

Juice of one lemon. 

2 cups of boiling water. 

Vanilla, or other essence. 

Soak the gelatine one hour in a cup of cold water. 
Add then a pint of boiling water, and stir until the gela- 
tine is dissolved. Put in two-thirds of the sugar and all 
the lemon-juice. Beat the whites of the eggs stiff, and 



FIRST WEEK MONDAY. 347 

when the gelatine is quite cold, whip it in, a spoonful at a 
time, for half an hour with the " Dover " an hour, if you 
use the common egg-whisk. When all is a white sponge, 
put into a wet mould to form. Make a custard of the 
milk, yolks, and the reserved sugar, flavor as you like, and 
when the " snow " is turned out into a glass dish, pour 
this around the base. Prepare this dessert on Saturday, 
and keep in the refrigerator. It is very nice. 



Jirst tOeek Jflonbag. 

Tomato Soup. 

Larded Beef Stewed Cream Potatoes. 

Spinach Dressed with Egg. Green Pickles. 

Strawberries and Cream. 
Martha's Cake. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Peel, by pouring boiling water over them, a dozen fine 
tomatoes, cut them up, throwing aside the hard cores and 
unripe portions. Take the fat from the surface of your 
soup stock ; pour it off from the meat and sediment ; add 
the tomatoes, and stew gently half an hour. Strain, rub- 
bing the tomatoes through the sieve; return to the pot; 
add a little pepper and salt, a lump of sugar, and a table- 
spoonful of butter rolled in flour. Boil one minute, and 
pour out. It will be a delicious soup. 

LARDED BEEF. 

Make perpendicular incisions in your cold roast, having 
trimmed the top smoothly, and thrust in lardoons of fat 
salt pork, set closely together. Take the fat from the 
cold gravy, and add to the latter a little minced onionj a 
tablespoonful of catsup, and a large cup of boiling water. 
Lay the meat in a dripping-pan, pour the gravy upon it. 



348 JUNE. 

invert another pan over it, and cook in a moderate oven 
about an hour. Turn the meat once, and baste six times 
with the gravy. Dish the meat ; strain the gravy, thicken 
it with browned flour, boil up and pour into a boat. 

STEWED CREAM POTATOES. 

Peel and cut into neat dice. Leave in cold water half 
an hour; then cook as long in boiling water, salted. 
Drain this off before the potatoes break ; add half a cup 
of milk (or cream) with a pinch of soda. When it heats, 
stir in a generous lump of butter cut up in a teaspoonful 
of flour, and a mere pinch of finely-grated lemon-peel. 
Stew one minute and pour into a deep dish. 

SPINACH DRESSED WITH EGG. 

Boil the spinach in plenty of hot water, salted, for 
twenty minutes. Drain and press out the water. Chop 
fine ; put back over the fire with a large spoonful of butter, 
and a teaspoonful of sugar, with salt and pepper to taste, 
also a little nutmeg. Beat until hot and smooth: turn 
into a hot, -deep dish, and cover with a dressing of the 
yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, left to cool, then pounded 
in a Wedgewood mortar, and rubbed to a paste with a 
teaspoonful of melted butter, one of cream, and lastly, one 
of lemon-juice. Spread over the surface of the spinach and 
garnish with a border of the sliced whites. 

STRAWBERRIES AND CREAM. 

Cap the berries, and pile in a glass bowl. Do not sugar 
them, but pass powdered sugar and cream with each 
saucerful. 

MARTHA'S CAKE. 

An economical and very nice variety of jelly-cake, easily 
made, and which keeps well. Please see " COMMON SENSE 
IN THE HOUSEHOLD " Series No. i, " General Receipts," 
page 314. 



FIRST WEEK TUESDAY. 349 



tthek. 

Quick Beef Soup. 

Lamb Chops. Puree of Potatoes 

Asparagus Rolls. Lettuce. 

Rosie's Rice Custard. 

QUICK BEEF SOUP. 

2 Ibs. of lean beef, chopped very fine. 

3 pints of water, 
i grated carrot, 
i onion, sliced. 

i grated turnip. 

i clove. 

i tablespoonful of tomato catsup. 

Pepper and salt. 

Put onion and other vegetables with spice on in two 
quarts of water, and boil down to three pints. Strain and 
press over the beef. Season with pepper, salt, and catsup ; 
simmer half an hour, or until the meat is nearly white and 
the soup brown, and serve with the meat in it. The vege- 
table liquor must be boiling when it is poured upon the 
minced beef. 

LAMB CHOPS. 

Broil quickly over a clear fire ; pepper and salt ; butter 
on both sides, and lay in a heap, symmetrically arranged, 
in the centre of a dish, surrounded by the potato puree. 

PURE"E OF POTATOES. 

2 cups of hot, mashed potatoes, rubbed through a col- 
ander. 

J cup of milk. 

i large spoonful of butter. 

Pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg. 

Mix all up well ; put into a greased saucepan, and 
stir until hot, never allowing it to stick to the sides or 
scorch, and lay, in a white hedge, about the chops. 



350 JUNE. 

ASPARAGUS ROLLS. 

8 or 10 stale French rolls. 

2 bunches of asparagus. 

Yolks of 2 raw eggs. 

i cup of milk. 

i tablespoon ful of butter, rolled in a very little fl 5ur. 

Salt and pepper. 

Cut off the top of each roll ; pick out the crumb care- 
fully, and set the hollowed rolls, with their tops, in a slow 
oven to dry to crispness. Boil the asparagus twenty min 
utes, cut off the green tops, and let them get perfectly 
cold. Then heat the milk ; stir in the butter ; pour upon 
the beaten yolks ; beat one minute with your egg- whisk ; 
return to the fire ; put in the asparagus-tops minced 
leaving out as many whole tops as you have rolls stir 
until very hot, but not until it boils. Fill your rolls with 
the mixture ; make a round hole in the top of each crust- 
cover ; fit in a bit of asparagus, as if it had sprouted from 
below; fit each cover upon its roll, and the pretty and 
delightful dish is ready. 

LETTUCE. 

Pick hearts and blanched leaves from the stems ; pile 
in a salad-bowl, and cover with a dressing made of two 
tablespoonfuls of oil, one teaspoonful of white sugar, half 
as much each of salt, pepper, and made mustard all 
rubbed smooth together then thickened, rather than 
thinned, by whipping, in a few drops at a time, four table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. Stir up with a silver fork after the 
dressing goes on. 

. ROSIE'S RICE CUSTARD. 
i quart of milk. 

3 well-beaten eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

i small cup of boiled and still warm rice. 

i scant tablespoonful of butter. 

A little salt. 

Cream butter and sugar ; add the beaten eggs, salt, 
then, the rice stirred warm into the milk. Bake in a 
buttered dish half an hour in a quick oven. Eat warm. 



FIRST WEEK WEDNESDAY. 351 

.first 



Chicken Broth. 

Milanaise Pudding. Fried Shad au Gratin 

Mashed Potatoes. Navy Beans. 

Cottage Pudding. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

i large chicken, jointed as for fricassee. 
cup of raw rice. 
5 quarts of cold water. 
Chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. 

1 cup of milk. 

2 beaten eggs. 

Put water and chicken on quite early in the day, and cook 
slowly until the water has boiled down to about three and 
a half quarts, and the chicken slips easily from the bones. 
Take off all the meat, and return the bones to the pot. 
Cook gently until an hour before dinner, when strain, and 
let it cool. Take off the fat ; return to the fire with the 
seasoning and rice and simpler half an hour, or until the 
rice is soft. Have the milk heated in a separate vessel, 
with a pinch of soda ; pour upon the beaten eggs ; put 
back over the fire, and stir until it begins to thicken. 
Turn into the tureen. Boil up the chicken broth once 
sharply, and add to the milk in the soup-tureen, stirring 
up well. 

FRIED SHAD AU GRATIN. 

Clean, wash, and wipe a fine roe-shad. Take off head, 
tail, and fins, and cut into eight pieces. Pepper and salt 
these ; dip into beaten egg, then in cracker- crumbs, and 
fry in hot dripping or lard. Drain, and serve on a hot, 
flat dish. The roes should be parboiled, then cooled 
afterward dipped in egg and cracker, fried in the sam< 
manner as the fish, and dished with it. 

MILANAISE PUDDING. 
% Ib. cold cooked ham. 
The meat of your soup-chicken 



352 JUNE. 

Nearly J- Ib. of macaroni. 

2 eggs. 

A cup of your soup, strained and skimmed before the 
rice is put in. 

i tablespoonful of butter. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

Boil the macaroni in the broth until tender ; then let 
it cool somewhat, and, with a pair of old scissors, clip it 
into inch-lengths. Chop ham and chicken, and pepper. 
Mix with the macaroni which should have absorbed the 
broth stir in the melted butter and eggs. Put into a 
well-greased mould, and boil an hour and a half. Turn 
out ; pour over it a cup of drawn butter, and serve. Pass 
grated cheese with it. 

. MASHED POTATOES. 
Prepare as usual and pass with the fish course. 

NAVY BEANS. 

This is a variety of white kidney beans. Shell and lay 
them in cold water half an hour, to take off the raw, rank 
taste. Cook about twenty-five minutes in boiling water, 
a little salt. .Drain well ; pepper, salt, and butter. Eat 
hot. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

i cup of sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

2 eggs. 

i cup of sweet milk. 

3 cups of flour, or enough for pretty stiff batter. (Use 

Hecker's prepared flour.) 

\ teaspoonful of salt. 

Cream butter and sugar ; beat in the yolks, then the 
salted flour, alternately with the whites. Bake in a but- 
tered cake-mould until a straw will come up clean from 
the middle. Turn out and eat hot with sweet sauce. 



FIRST WEEK THURSDAY. 353 



JFtr0t tUtek. 

White Asparagus Soup. 

Stuffed Fillet of Veal with Bacon. Scooped Potatoes. 

Tomato Salad. Hominy Pudding. 

Cocoanut Puddings. 

WHITE ASPARAGUS SOUP. 
3 Ibs. knuckle of veal, 
i slice of corned ham. 

3 bunches of well-bleached asparagus, cut into short 

pieces. 

4 quarts of water, 
i cup of milk. 

i tablespoonful of corn-starch. 

Pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and dice of fried bread. 

Crack the bones to splinters and chop the meat. Put 
on with all the asparagus stalks and one-half of the heads. 
Cover with the water and cook gently, covered, three 
hours. Strain ; cool to let the grease rise ; skim and re- 
turn to the pot with the seasoning and reserved heads of 
asparagus. Boil slowly for twenty minutes longer. Heat 
the milk separately, salt and pepper, and stir in the corn- 
starch, boiling one minute to thicken it. Pour into the 
tureen upon the dice of fried bread ; stir into this the boil- 
ing soup, and send to table. * 

STUFFED FILLET OF VEAL WITH BACON. 

Take out the bone from the meat, and pin into a round 
with skewers. Bind securely with soft tapes. Fill the 
cavity left by the bone with a force-meat of crumbs, chopped 
pork; thyme, and parsley, seasoned with pepper, salt, nut- 
meg, and a pinch of lemon-peel. Cover the top of the 
fillet with thin slices of cold, cooked, fat bacon or salt pork, 
tying them in place with twines crossing the meat in all 
directions. Put into a pot with two cups of boiling water, 
and cook slowly and steadily two hours. Then take from 
the pot and put into a dripping-pan. Undo the strings 



354 JUNE. 

and tapes. Brush the meat all over with raw egg, sift 
rolled cracker thickly over it, and set in the oven lor half 
an hour, basting often with gravy from the. pot. When it 
is well browned, lay upon a hot dish with the pork about 
it. Strain and thicken the gravy, and serve in a boat. 

If your fillet be large, cook twice as long in the po* 
The time given above is for one weighing five pounds. 

SCOOPED POTATOES. 

Pare and cut round with a potato-gouge a neat little 
instrument that costs but a trifle. The waste bits can be 
boiled, mashed, and set by for to-morrow's uses. Boil the 
scooped pellets in hot, salted water twenty minutes ; throw 
this off and put in a cup of cold milk. Simmer gently 
until the potatoes are tender ; stir in a good lump of but- 
ter* rolled in flour, and when this is melted, a little minced 
parsley, with pepper and salt. Stew three minutes, and 
pour into a deep dish. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Pare with a keen knife ; arrange upon a glass dish and 
cover with a dressing like that made on Tuesday for let- 
tuce, but adding the beaten yolks of two raw eggs, whipped 
in the last thing. 

HOMINY PUDDING. 

1 cupful cold, boiled, small-grained hominy. 

2 cups of milk. 

i heaping table^oonful of melted butter. 

3 eggs. 

i tablespoonful of sugar. 
A little salt. 

Rub the hominy very smooth with the butter ; then the 
yolks, beaten up with the sugar. Beat well before thin- 
ning with the salted milk. Lastly, add the frothed whites. 
Bake in a greased pudding-dish until nicely browned. 

COCOANUT PUDDINGS. 

i Ib. of cocoanut, grated. 
J- Ib. of powdered sugar. 



FIRST WEEK FRIDAY. 355 

i quart rich milk. 
5 beaten eggs. 

1 teaspoon fin nutmeg. 

2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 

Scald the milk and pour, gradually, upon the beaten 
eggs. Do not return to the fire, but, when nearly cold, 
season, add the cocoanut ; stir up well; pour into but- 
tered cups, and bake by setting in a pan of boiling water, 
and stirring again as the custard begins to heat, that the 
cocoanut may not settle to the bottom. Bake until well 
" set," and slightly browned. Eat cold. 



Jftvst iUeck. Jrtbaj). 

Clam Chowder. 

Baked Pickerel. Veal Scallop. 

Mashed Potatoes, Browned. Green Peas. 

Strawberry Shortcake. 
Tea. 



CLAM CHOWDER. 

100 clams. 

i sliced onion. 

12 butter or other small crackers, that can be split. 

12 tomatoes, peeled and chopped. 

i tablespoonful minced parsley and half the quantity 
of mixed thyme, summer savory and sweet mar- 
joram. 

A large pinch of mace and the same of cayenne pepper. 

i cup of milk hot for soaking the crackers, and but- 
ter for spreading them. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter for chowder. 

Salt. 

Put a layer of clams in the bottom of a soup-pot, next 
one of sliced tomatoes and onion. Sprinkle with season 



356 JUNE. 

ing, and drop bits of butter upon them. More clams, 
more tomato, etc., until all are in. Pour on the liquor 
there should be at least three pints cover, heat slowly 
for half an hour, then boil quite briskly for twenty minutes. 
Meanwhile, soak the split crackers covered in the 
boiling milk. When soft all through, butter thickly, and 
keep warm over boiling water until the soup is ready. 
Then line a hot tureen with them, and pour in the chow- 
der. Pass sliced kmon with it. 

BAKED PICKEREL. 

Select a couple of large, fresh fish ; score the back-bones 
with a sharp knife, and lay them in a baking-pan. Pour 
a cupful of boiling water over them, cover, and bake 
slowly, basting with butter and water, at least six times. 
The fish should be tender, yet firm when done. Transfer 
them carefully to a hot-water dish. Have ready a cupful 
of rich, drawn butter ; strain the gravy from the dripping- 
pan into it, with a little minced parsley. Heat almost to 
a boil and pour over the fish. There is no better way of 
cooking large pickerel than this. 

VEAL SCALLOP. 

Chop the remains of your fillet fine, and season with 
pepper and salt. Put a layer of dry crumbs in a buttered 
bake-dish ; stick bits of butter over it ; cover with the 
meat and wet this with gravy and warm milk. Repeat 
this order of strata until your dish is full, covering deep 
with crumbs. Fit a tin cover on the top and bake half 
an hour ; remove the lid and brown nicely. Serve in the 
bake-dish. 

MASHED POTATOES BROWNED. 

Mash soft with milk and butter ; whip up to a cream ; 
season, and make into a four-sided pyramid upon a 
greased pie-dish. Brown in a good oven and slip to a 
warm dish. Pass with the fish. 

GREEN PEAS. 
Please see receipt given on Sunday of this week. 



FIRST WEEK SATURDAY. 357 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Please see receipt given on Friday of Fourth Week in 
May. The strawberry season is so short that you can 
hardly give this popular dessert often enough to weary 
your family while the scarlet, flavorous beauties last. 

TEA, 

Hot and strong, will tte the better for a little cream bor 
rowed from the supply meant for your shortcake. 



first 

Marlowe Soup. 

Beefs Tongue (Langue du Bo3uf). Squeezed Potatoes 

French Beans, Sautes. Young Beets. 

Cherry Pie. 

MARLOWE SOUP. 

2 Ibs. of lean veal and the same of lean beef. 

1 Ib. of lean ham. 

2 onions. 
i carrot, 
i turnip. 

of a head of cabbage, chopped and parboiled. 

Bunch of sweet herbs. 

6 tomatoes, peeled and sliced. 

cup of rice. 

Pepper and salt. 

5 quarts of cold water. 

Cut up meat and vegetables fine, and put with the 
water into the soup-kettle. Cook slowly four hours. 
Strain the soup, rubbing the vegetables through the colan- 
der. Divide the liquor into two parts. Put witn the 
meat all highly seasoned into a stoneware vessel and 



358 JUNE. 

set by in the refrigerator. Let the other portion cool ; 
take off the fat ; season ; put over the fire ; boil and 
skim for a few minutes, and put in the rice. Simmer very 
gently half an hour, or until the rice is very soft. 

BEEF'S TONGUE (LANGUE DU BCEUF). 

Wash a large, perfectly fresh tongue in three waters. 
Then cover well with boiling water, a little salt plenty 
of it and cook about twelve minutes to the pound. 
Strip off the skin ; dish, when you have trimmed away 
the root, and pour over it the following sauce : Strain a 
cup of the liquor in which the tongue was boiled ; set 
over the fire, and stir in two tablespoonfuls of butter cut 
up in flour, pepper to taste ; the juice of a lemon, and 
when this has thickened, two small pickled cucumbers, 
chopped. This is a dish whose merits deserve to be bet- 
ter known. (Save the liquor.) 

SQUEEZED POTATOES. 

Put on in cold water, and bring quickly to a boil. 
When soft enough to be pierced by a fork, turn off the 
water ; throw in a little salt, and dry on the range. Tear 
off the skins quickly, and as soon as each is bare, envel- 
op it in the corner of a dry, hot towel and twist the same 
tightly around it for a second, but not quite breaking it. 
Pile within a napkin-lined dish* and send up hot. 

FRENCH BEANS SAUTES. 

Top, tail, and " string " with care. Cut into short 
pieces. Cook in boiling water, a little salt, until tender 
say thirty minutes, if they are full-grown. Drain well ; 
return to the saucepan with two great spoonfuls of butter, 
salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful of vinegar. Toss until 
very hot, and turn into a hot, deep dish. 

YOUNG BEETS. 

Boil in hot, salt water one hour. When done, rub off 
the skins ; split the beets lengthwise and lay upon a hot 
dish. Have ready a great -spoonful of melted butter, 



SECOND WEEK SUNDAY. 359 

mixed with two of vinegar, a little salt and pepper, heated 
to boiling, and pour over the beets. Be careful not to 
break the skin of raw beets, or they will lose their color 
in the hot water while cooking. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Line your pie-dish with a good paste ; fill with a mix- 
ture of sour and sweet cherries ; sweeten plentifully ; 
cover with paste printed at the edge and slit in the mid 
die, and bake until nicely colored. Eat fresh, but not 
warm, with white sugar sifted over the top. 



Seconir lUeek. 



Tomato and Pea Soup. 

Stewed Lamb with Mushroom Sauce. Lima Beans. 

Green Peas. Stewed Turnips. 

Lemon Blanc-Mange. 
Coffee and Cake. 



TOMATO AND PEA SOUP. 

Take the fat from the liquor in which the tongue was 
boiled yesterday ; set it over the fire, and, when boiling, 
put in the empty pods of two quarts of peas. Boil half 
an hour ; take from the fire and strain out the pods. 
About half an hour before dinner, take the fat from the 
" stock " set aside yesterday, and pour off from the meat 
and sediment into the soup-pot. While it is slowly heat- 
ing, put on the water in which the pods were boiled, with 
the peas and two quarts of peeled and sliced tomatoes, 
in another pot, and bring more rapidly to the boil. Cook 
twenty-five minutes, then stir in two lumps of white 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter, rolled in flour, pepper 
well, boil up, and rub through a colander into the main 
soup-kettle. Simmer all together three minutes, and it is 



360 JUNE. 

fit for use. Pour half into the tureen ; cool the rest and 
remand to the refrigerator. 

STEWED LAMB WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Let your butcher take out the bones from the lower 
side of a shoulder of lamb, leaving in the shank. Fill 
the cavity thus left with a good force-meat of crumbs, 
chopped pork, and sweet herbs, and sew the meat edges 
together to hold it in. If you have no gravy ready make 
a pint on Saturday of the lamb trimmings and a few veal- 
bones, with seasoning. It need not be strong. Put the 
lamb into a broad pot, with some thin slices of fat pork 
laid in the bottom ; pour in the gravy, cover tightly, and 
stew gently pne hour. Turn the meat then, and cook 
twenty minutes longer. Lay the lamb upon a hot dish, 
and butter it all over. Cover, and keep warm over hot 
water while you make the sauce. Have ready half a can 
of mushrooms, boiled and chopped. Strain the gravy left 
in the pot, add the mushrooms, and stew five minutes ; 
thicken with browned flour ; boil up and pour over the 
lamb. Garnish with alternate slices of green pickle and 
boiled beets. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Shell ; lay in cold water twenty minutes, and cook in 
slightly salted boiling water about half an hour, or until 
tender. The time depends much upon age and size. 
Drain well ; pour into a deep dish ; pepper, salt, and 
butter. 

GREEN PEAS. 
Receipt given on Sunday of First Week in this month. 

STEWED TURNIPS. 

Peel and slice young turnips. Boil fifteen minutes in 
hot, salted .water ; throw this off, and add half a cup of 
milk and as much boiling fresh water. When this heats, 
stir in a generous lump of butter, rolled in a teaspoonful 
of flour, with pepper and salt to taste. Simmer ten min 
utes longer, or until tender, and pour into a deep dish 
Eat very hot 



SECOND WEEK MONDAY. 361 

LEMON BLANC-MANGE. 
i large lemon, or two small ones all the juice ai.d half 

the grated peel. 
Whisked whites of 4 eggs, 
i package of gelatine soaked two hours in one cup of 

cold water. 

1 pint and i cup of boiling water. 

2 cups of powdered sugar even ones. 
J teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

i glass of good claret. 

Add to the soaked gelatine the lemon-juice and peel, 
sugar and spice. Leave standing one hour. Then pour 
on the boiling water. Stir until clear, add the wine, and 
strain through double tarlatan. While it is cooling, whip 
the whites very stiff. When the gelatine begins to coagu- 
late around the edge of the dish, whip it, little by little, 
into the frothed whites until it is stiff. Put into a wet 
mould, and set upon the ice. On Sunday turn it out, and 
pour a rich liqueur that from brandied peaches is best 
about the base. Preserved strawberries are also very 
nice with it if you have no liqueur. 

COFFEE AND CAKE. 

If you prefer, you can give the cake with the blanc- 
mange, and drink the coffee afterwards. 



iDeck. JlTonbag. 



" Once-Again " Soup. 

Cold Lamb. Cheese Fondu. 

Raw Tomatoes. Potatoes en Robe de Chambre 



Floating Island. 



" ONCE-AGAIN " SOUP. 

A good soup, founded upon such stock as you made 
on Saturday, is better the third day than the first. There- 
16 



362 JUNE. 

fore, take off the fat" from the portion kept on the ice 
since yesterday's providential division, and warni it slowly, 
almost to a boil. If you have time, cut some fried bread 
into dice and put into the tureen before you pour in the 
soup. 

COLD LAMB. 

Do not murder the well-cooked, juicy innocent of yes- 
terday by hashing and reheating. A nice dish of cold 
lamb, trimmed and garnished with cresses and cool, white 
lettuce, is goodly to the eyes and taste on a sultry June 
day. 

CHEESE FONDU. 

2 cups milk, with a pinch of soda stirred in. 

i cup very dry, fine crumbs. 

J Ib. of dry cheese, grated. 

4 beaten eggs. 

i tablespoonful of melted butter. 

Pepper, salt, and a pinch of mace. 
Soak the crumbs in the milk ; beat in the eggs, butter, 
seasoning lastly, the cheese. Butter a pudding-dish ; 
put in the mixture; strew the top with fine crumbs, and 
bake, covered, half an hour ; then brown quickly. Eat 
soon, as it will fall in cooling. 

RAW TOMATOES. 

See receipt for Tuesday of first week in this month for 
dressing lettuce, when you have peeled and sliced the 
tomatoes. 

POTATOES EN ROBE DE CHAMBRE. 

If you use Bermuda potatoes, cook in boiling water. 
If you take old potatoes, put on in cold and bring rapidly 
to a boil. Throw off the water when they are done, set 
back on the range, uncovered, to dry out, and send to 
table with the skins on. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

i quart of milk. 
4 beaten eggs. 



SECOND WEEK^ TUESDAY. 363 

4 heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls extract of bitter almond. 

cup of currant jelly. 

Beat yolks and sugar light, and pour on, by degrees, 
the boiling milk. Pour back into the farina-kettle, and 
heat, stirring constantly until it begins to thicken. When 
cold, flavor, and pour into a glass dish. Pile with a me- 
ringue of the whites beaten up with half a cup of currant 
jelly. Ornament with dots of jelly. 



Seconb 



A Summer Melange Soup. 

Rolled Beef. Boiled Onions. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. Baked Omelettes aux Fines Herbes. 



Strawberries and Cream. 
Orange Cake. 

A SUMMER MELANGE SOUP. 

2 Ibs. lean beef, chopped fine, 
quart green peas. 

quart tomatoes, peeled and sliced. 

cucumber, sliced thin. 

sliced onion. 

pint of small string-beans, cut into pieces. 

3 great spoonfuls of butter, rolled in flour. 
Pepper and salt. 

4 quarts of cold water. 

Put on the meat in the water, and cook, slowly, three 
hours, to extract every particle of nourishment from the 
beef. Peel and slice the vegetables, and lay all, except 
the tomatoes, in cold water for half an hour. At the end 
of the three hours, strain the soup : return to the pot and 
put in all the vegetables with salt and pepper. Stew for 
one hour, covered ; stir in the butter and simmer half an 
hour longer before turning it out. 



JUNE. 

ROLLED BEEF. 

Make your butcher take all the bones out of a rib-roast. 
(Keep them for to-morrow's soup.) Make him also roll the 
meat into a round, and skewer it securely. Wash it all over 
with vinegar, then rub. with hot butter mixed with minced 
onion and pepper, working this well between the folds 
of meat. Put into the dripping-pan, pour a cup of gravy 
from the boiling soup before the vegetables are added 
about the base, and a few spoonfuls of butter and water 
upon the top. Roast twelve minutes to the pound, bast- 
ing freely and often. Towards the last, dredge with flour, 
and rub over with butter to make a brown froth. Pour 
off the fat from the gravy, strain what is left ; add, if 
needed, a little boiling water ; thicken with browned flour, 
and serve in a boat. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Top and tail ; skin and cook fifteen minutes in boiling 
fresh water. Throw this off, add more from the boiling 
tea-kettle ; salt slightly, and boil until tender all through. 
Drain, butter well, and pepper and salt. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Select large, smooth tomatoes ; cut a piece from the 
top of each, and scoop out seeds and pulp. Chop fine 
what you have removed ; season with butter, pepper, salt 
and sugar ; add one-third as much bread-crumbs ; work 
all well together, and fill the skins with the mixture. Re- 
place the tops ; put the rest of the stuffing between the 
tomatoes when you have set them close together in a bake- 
dish. Bake, covered, half an hour, in a moderate oven ; 
then uncover and cook ten minutes longer, or until browned 
and soft. 

BAKED OMELETTE AUX FINES HERBES. 

Make this a course between soup and meat, passing 
bread and butter with it. 
6 eggs. 

i cup of boiling milk, 
i teaspoonful of corn-starch, wet with cold milk. 



SECOND WEEK WEDNESDAY. 365 

I tablespoonful chopped parsley, thyme, and sweet mar 
joram, mixed. 

Pepper and salt. 

Butter for the dish. 

Beat the yolks light, and pour upon them the hot milk. 
Stir in the corn-starch, season, whip in the frothed whites, 
lastly, the herbs. Have ready a nice pudding-dish, well 
buttered. Set in the oven until hot ; butter again, and 
pour in the omelette. Bake about twelve minutes, or 
until " set" in the middle, but not longer, or it will be a 
leathery puff. It should be very light. Send up instantly. 

STRAWBERRIES AND CREAM. 
ORANGE CAKE. 

Serve as directed on Monday of last week. 

The orange cake, if made on Friday or Saturday, will 
have kept perfectly well, if the cake-box a tight one- 
containing it has been set in the refrigerator. For direc- 
tions for making it please consult " BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON 
AND TEA," page 318. 



Second lUcek. Ukbneaftan. 



Broiled Bones Soup. 

Boiled Chickens. Rice Croquettes. 

Asparagus upon Toast. Potato and Beet Salad, 

Raspberry Shortcake, Hot. 

BROILED BONES SOUP. 
3 Ibs. of beef bones, not scraped too clean. 
2 Ibs. of veal, ditto. 
J'lb. salt pork, fat, for frying. 

2 onions, sliced. 
Bunch of sweet herbs. 

cup of granulated tapioca. 

3 quarts of water. 
Pepper and salt. 

i tablespoonful walnut catsup. 



366 JUNE. 

Crack the bones well, and lay upon a gridiron 
the coals until they are hot, and the bits of meat adhering 
to them are frizzled. Meanwhile, fry the pork and onions 
together in a frying-pan until the latter are a fine brown. 
Strain out the pork and onions ; put back the fat into the 
pan and fry the bones five minutes. Lay the onions in 
the soup-pot with the chopped herbs, then the bones. 
Cover with the water and boil slowly three hours. Strain ; 
cool, and take off the fat. -Set over the fire ; season, boil 
once to throw up the scum ; skim, and put in the tapioca, 
which should have soaked two hours in a little cold water. 
Simmer until the tapioca is clear ; put in the catsup, and 
serve. 

BOILED CHICKENS. 

Clean, wash, and stuff as for roasting. Sew each up in 
thin muslin, or tarlatan, fitted closely to the shape, and 
put on in plenty of boiling water, a little salt. Boil 
twelve minutes to the pound (taking the heavier chicken 
as the standard) if they are tender. If doubtful, take a 
longer time, and cook more slowly. When done, lay 
upon a heated dish, and pour over them a cupful of drawn 
butter, made from the pot liquor, thickened with butter 
rolled in flour, and with an egg beaten up in it with a lit- 
tle chopped parsley. See " Drawn Butter, No. 3," in 
u General Receipts," page 184. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

Boil a cup of rice soft in weak broth, made from a 
cupful of the chicken pot liquor, mixed with boiling water 
and salted. Drain, and stir in a couple of beaten eggs ; 
a teaspoonful of butter, a mere dust of flour, pepper, and 
a pinch of grated lemon-peel. Stir up in a saucepan 
until thick and hot, and spread out to cool. When cold, 
flour your hands ; make the paste into long balls ; roll 
each in raw egg, then in cracker-dust, and fry carefully to 
a yellow-brown. 

ASPARAGUS UPON TOAST. 

Tie the bunch of asparagus up with soft string, when 
you have cut away the wood, and cook about twenty-five 



SECOND WEEK WEDNESDAY. 36? 

minutes in salted boiling water. Have ready some slices 
of crustless toast ; dip each in the asparagus-liquor ; but- 
ter well while hot and lay upon a heated dish. Drain the 
asparagus, and arrange upon the toast. Pepper, salt, and 
butter generously. 

i 
POTATO AND BEET SALAD. 

Slice a cupful of cold boiled potatoes. Chop a red 
beet, also boiled, but lukewarm, and pour over it four 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Let k stand while you rub 
together a teaspoonful of salt, half as much each of pep- 
per, sugar and made mustard, with a full tablespoonful of 
oil, and a very little green pickle, minced fine. When this 
is ready, take out a tablespoonful of chopped beet, and 
atrew among the sliced potatoes. Put them into a salad- 
bowl. Squeeze beets and vinegar through muslin into 
oil, etc. Beat up well, and pour over the cold potatoes. 

RASPBERRY SHORTCAKE HOT. 

1 quart of flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls of lard, and the same of butler, 

chopped up in the salted flour. 

2- cups " loppered " milk, or of buttermilk. 

Yolks of 2 eggs, well beaten. 

i teaspoonful of soda, sifted three times through the 
flour. 

i teaspoonful of salt. 

i quart " black caps " or wild raspberries. 

Make these ingredients into a soft paste. Roll lightly 
into two sheets that intended for the upper crust half an 
inch thick, the lower, less. Lay the bottom crust in a 
greased square pan. Strew thickly with the berries, 
sprinkle with sugar, and cover with the upper crust. 
Bake about twenty-five minutes, until browned, but not 
dry. Cut in squares, and send, piled upon a flat dish, to 
table. Split and eat with butter and sugar. It is good. 



368 JUNE. 



Chicken Panada Soup. 

Larded Mutton Chops. Green Pea Cakes. 

Stewed Tomatoes. String-Bean* 

Strawberry Trifle. 

CHICKEN PANADA SOUP. 

The liquor in which your chickens were boiled yester- 
day. 

1 large cup of minced cold chicken, very fine. 
J- cup fine crumbs. 

2 beaten eggs stirred into a cup of boiling milk. 
Pepper, salt, and a pinch of mace. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Take the fat from the cold " stock." Heat the latter 
to boiling and add the chicken, minced as finely as it can 
be cut. Pepper and salt to taste, and simmer one hour. 
Make ready your hot milk, at the end of that time, pour 
upon the beaten eggs ; stir over the fire two minutes and 
add the butter, and when this is melted, the crumbs. Take 
at once from the fire ; put into the tureen and pour in the 
soup through a colander, rubbing into it all the meat that 
will pass the holes. Stir well, and serve. This soup is 
very nice. 

LARDED MUTTON CHOPS. 

Trim off all the fat and skin, and lard closely with strips 
of fat salt pork. Pepper, and put into a hot frying-pan. 
Fry them in the lardoon fat as it flows out in heating, and 
turn several times to cook both sides equally. Arrange 
upon a hot dish, one overlapping the next. 

GREEN PEA CAKES. 

2 cups of green peas, mashed while hot, with butter, 

pepper, and salt. 
2 beaten eggs, 
i cup of milk. 
Half a cupful (a small cup) of prepared flour. 



SECOND WEEK THURSDAY. 

When the peas are cold beat in the eggs, milk, and, at 
last, the flour. The batter should not be thick. Fry as 
vou would griddle-cakes. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Pour boiling water over them to loosen the skins. When 
peeled, cut up small, leaving out the unripe and hard parts. 
Put over the fire with pepper, salt, and sugar to taste ; at 
the^ end of twenty minutes' stewing add a good piece of 
butter, and simmer ten minutes more. 

STRING-BEANS. 

Cut off the stem and blossom ends ; " string " with a 
sharp knife. Cut into short pieces and cook tender in 
boiling salted water. Drain, pepper, salt, and butter. 

STRAWBERRY TRIFLE. 

i quart of milk. 

5 e gg s > whites and yolks beaten separately. 

i stale sponge-cake. 

i cup of sugar. 

i cup of sweet cream. 

Ripe strawberries. 

Heat the milk ; beat in yolks and sugar. Cook and 
stir until the custard begins to thicken. Slice your cake, 
and put a layer in a glass dish. Wet with the cream ; 
cover with fresh, ripe berries, sprinkled with sugar, then 
more cake, cream, and berries, until the dish is three- 
quarters full. Pour the custard, gradually, over all. Beat 
the* whites stiff with a little sugar and strawberry-juice, and 
heap roundly on the top. Lay rows of bright berries upon 
the meringue. 



JUNE. 



Seconb tUttk. Jirifcag. 

Puree of Potatoes. 

Salmon Scallops. Fricassee of Sweetbreads, 

Raw Tomatoes. Roasted Potatoes. 

Baked Cherry Dumplings. 

PURE OF POTATOES. 

8 large potatoes, peeled, boiled, and rubbed through a 
colander. 

2 quarts of boiling water. 
i cup of hot milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter, rubbed in flour. 

i tablespoonful of rninced parsley, with salt and pepper. 

Pour the water upon the potato, season with pepper and 
salt, and boil gently one hour, taking care that it does not 
burn. Then stir in the butter, and when this is melted, 
the hot milk. Let it begin to boil, and pour out. 

SALMON SCALLOPS. 

1 J Ibs. of cold salmon, left from steaks, or a can of pre- 

served salmon. 

2 beaten eggs. 

cup good drawn butter. 

\ cup bread-crumbs. 

Pepper, salt, and minced parsley. 

Chop the fish fine ; rub the butter and seasoning into 
it, and stir into the hot, drawn butter. Butter scallop- 
shells, or pate-pans, fill with the mixture, and strew it with 
fine crumbs. Bake a few minutes in a quick oven to 
brown them lightly. Serve in the shells. 

FRICASSEE OF SWEETBREADS. 

3 fine sweetbreads. 
2 eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls of cream, 
i great spoonful of butter. 



SECOND WEEK FRIDAY. 37* 

I teaspoor ful of chopped parsley. 

A pinch of nutmeg. 

i cup of gravy a cup of yesterday's soup, strained, will 
do. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

Wash the sweetbreads ; boil five minutes ; then lay in 
ice-cold water. Slice and cover them with the gravy, and 
stew three-quarters of an hour. Heat the cream or milk 
in another saucepan, putting in a pinch of soda. Pour 
upon the eggs, and returning these to the fire, cook one 
minute. Stir in the butter and the paTsley. Take both 
saucepans from the fire and empty one into the other. 
Stir all together well, and pour into a hot deep dish. 

RAW TOMATOES. 
See receipt for last Monday. 

ROASTED POTATOES. 

Wash fair-sized potatoes and bake on the oven floor 
until soft to the grasp of thumb and forefinger. Wipe and 
send to table wrapped in a napkin. 

BAKED CHERRY DUMPLINGS. 

1 quart prepared flour. 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls of lard. 
2 cups fresh milk. 

A little salt. 

2 cups of stoned cherries. 

J cupful of sugar. 

Rub the lard into the salted flour, wet up with the milk ; 
roll into a sheet a quarter of an inch thick ; and cut into 
squares about four inches across. Put two great spoon- 
fuls of cherries in the centre of each ; sugar them ; turn 
up the edges of the paste and pinch them together. Lay 
the joined edges downward, upon a floured baking-pan, 
and bake half an hoar 01 until browned. Eat hot with a 
good sauce. 



372 JUNE. 



Swontr IDeek. 

Ox-head Soup. 

Corned Beef. Mashed Turnips. 

Green Peas. Mashed Potatoes. 



Raspberries and My Lady's Cake. 

OX-HEAD SOUP. 

1 well cleaned ox-head. 

2 turnips. 

1 carrot. 

2 onions. 

Bunch of sweet herbs. 

Salt and pepper. 

i teaspoon ml mixed allspice and mace. 

6 quarts cold water. 

Wash the head in three waters ; break the bones with a 
a few smart blows of a hammer. Put it on in the cold 
water ; bring to a slow boil and skim well. Then add the 
sliced vegetables, and stew gently three hours. The liquor 
should be reduced to four quarts. Take out the head and 
set in the open air to cool. Strain the liquor, rubbing the 
vegetables to a pulp. Return half of it to the fire season 
and skim as it boils, for five minutes ; then add three-fourths 
.of the meat from the head, cut into dice. Simmer half an 
.hour, and serve. Put bones and the rest of the meat, well 
seasoned, into ajar;season the reserved "stock," and 
pour it in, and keep in the refrigerator until to-morrow. 

CORNED BEEF. 

Boil in plenty of hot water, fifteen minutes at least 
to the pound. Serve drawn butter (made from the pot- 
liquor), with chopped cucumber-pickle stirred in it, in a 
sauce-boat. Save the liquor and set in a cool place. 

MASHED TURNIPS. 

Boil tender in hot salted water. Drain, mash and 
press, and stir in butter, salt and pepper. 



THIRD WEEK SUNDAY. 373 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Prepare as usual, and serve without browning. 

GREEN PEAS. 
See Sunda} of First Week in this month. 

RASPBERRIES AND MY LADY'S CAKE. 

Send around powdered sugar with the berries. Foi 
directions for the cake-making, I beg to refer to " BREAK- 
FAST, LUNCHEON and TEA," page 329. 



ftlerk. 

Rice and Tapioca Soup. 

Smothered Chickens, Mashed Squash. 

String-Beans, Beets Sautes. 

Cream Pudding. 

RICE AND TAPIOCA SOUP. 

Take the fat from your stock ; pour it from the bones 
and meat, and heat slowly. Have ready a cup of boiled 
rice hot and half a cup of granulated tapioca, which 
has been soaked two hours in a little cold water. When 
the soup boils, put them in, and simmer gently half an 
hour. Should it be too thick, add a little boiling water. 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN. 

Clean and split a pair of young chickens down the 
back as for broiling. Lay them in a dripping-pan ; dash a 
cup of boiling water, in which have been stirred two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, over them, and, covering with an- 
other par., cook until tender, and of an equal yellow- 
brownish tint all over. Lift the pan, now and then, to 



374 JUNE. 

baste freely four times with the gravy twice, toward 
the last, with melted butter. Lay the chickens in a hot 
water dish ; add pepper, salt, a chopped boiled egg, 
finely minced, and a little minced parsley, with browned 
flour, to the gravy. Boil up, and pour half over the 
chicken, the rest into a gravy-boat. 

MASHED SQUASH. 

Peel, seed, and slice fresh summer squashes. Lay in 
cold water ten minutes ; put into boiling water, a little 
salt, and cook tender. Twenty minutes will suffice if the 
squash be young. Mash in a colander, pressing out all 
the water ; heap in a deep dish, seasoning with pepper, 
salt and butter. Serve hot. 

STRING-BEANS. 
See Thursday of Second Week in this month. 

BEETS SAUTES. , 

Boil young sweet beets until nearly done say forty- 
five minutes. Skin and slice them. Have ready in a 
saucepan two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one table- 
spoonful of vinegar, a small onion minced, salt and pepper. 
When this begins to simmer, put in the beets, and cook 
ten minutes, shaking the saucepan frequently, to prevent 
scorching. Put the beats into a root-dish, and pour the 
dressing upon them. 

CREAM PUDDING. 

i quart of milk. 

i cup of hot boiled rice well cooked, but not broken, 
i cupful of sugar. 

i heaping tablespoonful of corn-starch. 
5 eggs. 

\ teaspoonful of cinnamon and the same of grated lemon 
peel. 

Heat the milk, stir in the corn-starch wet up with cold 
milk ; then the beaten yolks and sugar. Add to these 
the heaping cup of boiled rice. Stir until it begins to 
thicken, add the seasoning, and pour into a buttered 



THIRD WEEK MONDAY. 375 

bake-dish. Bake until well ' set " ; spread with a mtringut 
of the whites and a little sugar, made very stiff. When this 
has colored lightly, take from the oven. 

Make on Saturday, and set on ice until Sunday. The 
colder it is, the better. 



l)tri tthek. 

Green Pea Soup. 

Beef Miroton. Asparagus Omelette. 

Tomato Salad. Green Peas. 



Mountain Custard, or " Junket." 
Tea and Fancy Biscuits. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Take the fat from the top of the corned-beef liquor ; add 
the beef-bones and any others you may have. Boil gently 
one hour, skimming often. Strain, and put in two quarts of 
green peas, a minced onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. 
Cook forty-five minutes and rub to a pulp through a col- 
ander. Add pepper, heat to a boil and pour upon dice 
of fried bread laid in the tureen. 

BEEF MIROTON. 

Mince the remains of your corned beef; season with 
pepper, salt, a little chopped pickle, two boiled eggs 
chopped fine ; wet with whatever gravy you may have, 
and put into a greased pudding-dish. Cover with mashed 
potatoes, made very soft with milk aud butter, sift bread- 
crumbs over all, and bake, covered, half an hour, then 
brown. This is a nice way of warming over cold meat. 

ASPARAGUS OMELETTE. 

6 eggs beaten very light. 

1 bunch of asparagus, the green tops only. (The stalkf 

will be an improvement to your soup.) 

2 tablespoonfuls of milk. 



376 JUNE. 

Beat whites and yolks together, add the milk, then the 
boiled asparagus heads, cold and chopped fine. Have 
ready a frying-pan with a tablespoonful of butter in it, hot, 
but not frying. Pour in the . mixture ; shake well from 
the bottom as it forms, loosen from the pan with " spat- 
ula" or cake-turner; fold over in the middle, and turn 
the pan upside down upon a hot dish. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Peel and slice your tomatoes, put into a salad-dish, 
and pour over them a dressing prepared as follows : 

3 yolks of hard-boiled eggs, pounded. 
i beaten raw egg. 
i teaspoonful of salt. 
A pinch of cayenne. 

1 teaspoonful white sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of salad oil. 

i teaspoonful of made mustard. 
J- teacupful of vinegar. 

Rub yolks, mustard, pepper, salt, sugar and oil to a 
paste. Beat in the raw egg with your whisk, finally, the 
oil, a little at a time. Stir a great lump of ice into the 
dressing, whirling rapidly for half a minute. Take it out 
and pour the mixture over the salad. 

For Green Peas Receipt, see Sunday of First Week in 
this month. 

MOUNTAIN CUSTARD, OR "JUNKET." 

2 quarts of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Vanilla, or other essence. 

2 teaspoonfuls of liquid rennet to be had at most of 
the grocers and all the druggists. 

Pour the milk, slightly warmed, into a glass bowl ; 
sweeten, flavor, and stir in the rennet. Set in a rather 
warm place until it is firm, like " loppered " milk or blanc- 
mange ; then put on ice. If at the end of an hour it 
remains liquid, put in more rennet. Do not let it stand 
until the whey separates from the curd. Two hours in 



THIRD WEEK TUESDAY. 377 

warm weather should be enough. Eat with cream and 
sugar. 

TEA AND FANCY BISCUITS. 

Peek & Freans, Mackenzie & Mackenzie, and Huntley 
& Palmer make the best fancy biscuits that come to the 
American market. 



Vermicelli Soup. 

Beefsteak. Young Onions. 

Potato Puffs. Spinach. 

Strawberries and Cream. 
Mother's Cup-Cake. 



VERMICELLI SOUP. 

6 Ibs. of beef-shin, meat chopped and bones cracked. 

2 onions. 

2 carrots. 

2 turnips. 

6 large tomatoes. 

Bunch of herbs. 

Pepper, salt, and i tablespoonful mushroom catsup. 

Ib. vermicelli, broken small. 

6 quarts of water. 

Put meat, bones, and sliced vegetables and herbs on in 
the water early in the day, and stew gently five hours. 
Strain and season. Set aside two quarts of stock, with the 
bones and meat, highly seasoned, until to-morrow, keep- 
ing upon the ice. Boil and skim the rest ; add the ver- 
micelli ; simmer fifteen minutes, and pour out. Put in 
the catsup after the soup goes into the tureen. 

BEEFSTEAK. 

Flatten with the broad side of a hatchet, and broil 
quickly about ten minutes over a clear, hot fire. Lay 



378 JUNE. 

between two hot dishes, with salt, pepper, and a great 
lump of butter upon it to draw the juices to the surface, 
for five minutes before serving. 

YOUNG ONIONS. 

Cut off stems and tops, skin and cook them in plenty 
of boiling water for fifteen minutes. Have ready another 
saucepan with a large spoonful of butter melted in it, 
but not hissing hot. Put in the onions, with a little 
chopped parsley, and let them warm slowly ten minutes. 
Then add a cup of milk in which have been stirred salt, 
pepper; and half a teaspoonful of corn-starch. Simmer 
all for three minutes, stirring several times, and pour out. 

SPINACH. 

Boil in hot, salted water twenty minutes. Drain well, 
and chop fine. .Put into a saucepan with a good spoon- 
ful of butter, a little sugar, salt and pepper, a dust of 
nutmeg, and a few teaspoonfuls of milk, and beat until all 
resolve themselves into a smooth, soft paste. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

Mash and whip the potatoes very light with milk, but- 
ter, salt and pepper ; lastly, the frothed white of an egg. 
Pile irregularly within a bake-dish, and set in the oven 
until light and delicately browned. Glaze with butter 
before taking it from the oven. 

STRAWBERRIES AND CREAM. 

Cap, but do not wash the berries. Never put berries 
that need washing upon the table as an uncooked dessert. 
Pile in a glass bowl, and pass sugar and cream with them. 

MOTHER'S CUP-CAKE. 

Please see " BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON AND TEA," page 
322. 



THIRD WEEK WEDNESDAY. 379 



l)h*b llUek. tUtiin^bag. 

Julienne Soup. 

Lamb Cutlets. Puree of Green Peas. 

Potato Strips. Lettuce. 

Ristori Puffs. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 
Pare and cut into small dice, 

2 carrots. 

i turnip. 

i cup small string-beans. 

6 tomatoes. 

i onion. 

of a cabbage-heart. 

Cook ten minutes in salted boiling water, leaving out 
the tomatoes. Drain away the water, and spread the vege- 
tables upon a dish to cool, while you take the fat from 
your cold soup- stock ; strain the latter from the bones and 
meat, and heat to a gentle boil. Continue this for five 
minutes, skimming well ; put -in the parboiled vegetables, 
the tomatoes, and a pint of green peas, and stew steadily, 
but not fast, for half an hour. Pour out all together. 

LAMB CUTLETS. 

Trim carefully, lay in a little warmed butter for an hour, 
turning several times. Then broil upon a greased gridiron, 
taking care they do not drip. Butter, pepper, and salt 
each, and lay them in a circle about the peas puree. 

PURE"E OF GREEN PEAS. 

Boil three pints of green peas until soft. Rub them, 
while hot, through a fine colander. Work in a tablespoon- 
ful of butter, cut up in flour ; pepper and salt to taste ; 
add three teaspoonfuls of milk, and stir in a saucepan until 
very hot and smooth. -Put in the centre of a hot, flat 
dish, with the cutlets about it, and help out both at the 
same time. 



. JUNE. 

.POTATO STRIPS. 

Pare large potatoes : cut into long strips ; lay in ice. 
cold water one hour ; dry between two towels and fry in 
salted dripping to a light brown. Drain well, and dish 
upon a folded napkin. 

LETTUCE. 

Pull out and tear apart the white hearts, and heap within 
a salad-bowl. Rub together 
2 tablespoonmls of salad oil. 
i teaspoonful, each, of sugar and salt. 
Half as much made mustard and pepper, and whip in 

a few drops a time 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 
Pour over the salad. 

RISTORI PUFFS. 

5 eggs. 

The weight of the eggs in flour. 

Half their weight in sugar. 

One-quarter their weight in butter. 

Juice of one lemon and half the grated peel. 

Soda. 

Use prepared flour always in this receipt. Cream but- 
ter and sugar, and beat in the yolks. Add the lemon ; a 
pinch of soda, dissolved in a teaspoonful of hot water, 
then the beaten whites, alternately with the flour. Bake 
in muffin rings in a quick oven. Eat hot, with jelly sauce. 



Jelly Soup. 

Stewed Sheep's Tongues. Potatoes a la Louisa 

Spinach. Lima Beans. 



Raspberry Short-cake with Cream. 



JELLY SOUP. 

4 calf s feet, well cleaned. 

2 Ibs. of lean veal, cut from the knuckles. 



THIRD WEEK THURSDAY. 3^1 

i onion stuck with three cloves. 

Teaspoonful of celery essence. 

Bunch of sweet herbs. 

i blade of mace. 

Juice of half a lemon. 

Pepper and salt. 

5 quarts of cold water. 

cup of German sago. 

Boil the feet, onion, herbs, and the veal, cut into strips, 
in the water for four hours, diminishing the liquid to three 
quarts. Strain, and cool. Put two of the feet and the 
veal back into one quart of the broth ; season, and set by 
on the ice. Take the fat from the rest ; put the liquor, 
seasoned, over the fire, boil gently and skim, add the sago, 
previously soaked two hours in a cup of cold water, sim- 
mer tender, and pour out. You can, if you like, add 4 
glass of pale sherry. 

STEWED SHEEP'S TONGUES. 

Speak for six sheep's tongues several days before you 
want them, unless you have access to a large market. 
Wash well in several waters. Boil in hot, salted water 
half an hour, to loosen the skins. Take these off and 
trim neatly. Put a cupful of your soup before adding 
the tapioca into a saucepan, with a quarter-pound of 
sliced salt pork, a teaspoonful of chopped onion, pepper, 
and a lump of white sugar. Lay in the tongues, sliced 
lengthwise, and stew half an hour. Lay the slices in rows, 
overlapping one another, upon a hot dish ; thicken the 
gravy with browned flour, add the juice of a lemon, boil 
once, and pour upon the tongues. 

POTATOES A LA LOUISE. 

Mash the potatoes, and whip with a fork to a light 
cream, adding milk and butter, salt and pepper. Heap 
upon a shallow pie-plate, well greased, and set in the 
oven until a^white crust has gathered over it. Then, 
wash the mound well with beaten egg. Set in a moder- 
ate oven long enough to harden this, but not until the 
yellow changes to brown. Slip, without breaking, to 
another dish, by the help of the spatula. 



382 JUNE. 

SPINACH. 
See receipt for Tuesday of this week. 

LIMA BEANS. 
See receipt for Sunday, Second Week in this month. 

RASPBERRY SHORTCAKE WITH CREAM. 
Substitute white or red raspberries for strawberries in 
the receipt for shortcake, given on Friday of First Week 
in this month. 



STIjirir 1X1 ak. 

Halibut Chowder. 

Chicken Pot-pie, with Dumplings. Sea-Kale. 

Baked Tomatoes. Gherkin Pickles. 

Charlotte Russe. 

HALIBUT CHOWDER. 

3 Ibs. of halibut, freed from bones, and cut into strips 

two inches long. 
6 parboiled potatoes, sliced. 

2 cups of milk. 

i good-sized onion, sliced. 
Chopped parsley. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter, rolled in flour, with butter 

for 6 Boston crackers, split. 

Enough boiling water to cover fish and potatoes. 

Pepper and salt. 

Put a layer of fish in the bottom of a pot ; season, and 
sprinkle with parsley. Hide this with sliced potato. 
More fish, and yet more potatoes, until all are in, when 
cover with boiling water. Put on the lid, and simmer 
half an hour after the boil recommences. Have ready 
the hot milk in another saucepan ; stir in tjie floured but- 
ter. Dip the crackers in boiling water, butter and salt 
them, and line the bottom of your tureen with them. 
Pour in the boiling milk; then the fish and potatoes. 
Send around sliced lemon with it. 



THIRD WEEKFRIDAY. 383 

CHICKEN POT-PIE, WITH DUMPLINGS. 
Clean and cut up the chicken as for fricassee. Put 
a good layer of salt pork \n the bottom of a broad, not 
too deep pot ; then a small onion, sliced, the chicken, 
peppered, and enough cold water to cover it well. Over 
this lay a thick sheet of good " family " pie-crust. 
Stew one hour and a half; then brown the crust by put- 
ting a red-hot stove-cover on the top of the pot. Take 
off the crust with care, and set by. Take out the chicken 
and arrange upon a hot-water dish. If the gravy has 
boiled down too low, add a little hot water. Drop in 
while the liquor is boiling hot, squares or rounds of raw 
pie-paste ; cook ten minutes, and lay upon the chicken. 
Stir into the gravy a large spoonful of butter rolled in 
flour ; boil up, and pour upon the dumplings and chicken. 
Lay the crust on top. 

SEA-KALE. 

Boil fifteen minutes in hot, salted water. Drain well, 
and return to the fire, with a spoonful of butter, pepper, 
salt, and a little lemon-juice. Stir, or toss, five minutes, 
and heap upon rounds of buttered toast in a hot dish. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Peel and slice large, ripe tomatoes. Chop fine a little 
streaked salt pork, or ham. Butter a pudding-dish, and 
cover the bottom with slices of tomato. Season with 
pepper and sugar, and strew with bread-crumbs. Then 
scatter chopped pork over it. Fill the dish in this order, 
having crumbs at the top. Cover closely, and bake hall 
an hour, or until the juice bubbles up at the sides. 
Brown nicely, and serve in the dish. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 
A large sponge-cake, 
i pint of cream. 
, % Ib. of sugar, powdered. 

Whites of 2 eggs. 

Line a tin mould with straight sides with slices of cake, 
having the bottom in one piece, if possible. Whip the 
cream in a syllabub-churn, and, with your egg-beater, 



384 JUNE. 

whisk into this, gradually, the frothed whites and the 
sugar, flavoring to taste. Fill the cake-lined mould with 
this, cover with more slices, and set in ice for an hour or 
so. Pass a knife around the inside of the mould to loosen 
the cake, and invert upon a plate. Sift powdered sugar 
over it. 



ttjtrb tiJeck. 



Cream Soup. 

Boiled Mutton. Hot Slaw. 

Buttered Potatoes. Mashed Squash. 



Cherry Roley-Poley. 

CREAM SOUP. 

If your jelly-soup stock has been kept upon the ice 
these two days, it is as good now as on Thursday. Take 
off the fat, add a pint of boiling water to the soup, and 
stew slowly for half an hour. Strain, add more seasoning, 
and skim for a few minutes until quite clear in boiling. 
Heat in another vessel a pint of milk; stir in a table- 
spoonful of butter and the same of corn-starch wet up in 
cold milk, with a little nutmeg. Pour this upon two 
beaten eggs, cook one minute, and put into the tureen. 
Add the boiling soup, and stir all up well. It will be wise 
to put a pinch of soda in the milk before boiling. 

BOILED MUTTON. 

Put on in plenty of boiling water, salted, and cook 
twelve minutes to the pound. Take out, wipe carefully 
with a hot, wet cloth ; butter all over, and serve with a 
cup of drawn butter sent up in a sauce-boat. Season the 
pot-liquor, and, when cool, put upon the ice. 

HOT SLAW. 

Shred a small white cabbage. Boil for fifteen minutes 
in hot water, salted. Throw this away, and add four 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar, the same quantity of your soup- 



THIRD WEEK S A TURD A Y. 

stock, with pepper and salt. Simmer in this ten minutes, 
stirring often. Turn out into a deep dish ; pour over it 
half a cupful of drawn butter ; set in a pan of boiling 
water five or six minutes, and serve. 

BUTTERED POTATOES. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes lengthwfse. Put into a 
saucepan a good lump of butter, with pepper and salt. 
Add the potatoes as the butter melts, and shake over the 
fire until they are very hot and covered with a sort of 
glaze, but not browned. 

MASHED SQUASH. 
Receipt given last Sunday. 

CHERRY ROLEY-POLEY. 

i quart of flour Hecker's prepared. 

i heaping tablespoonful of lard, and the same of butter. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

2 cups of milk. 

2 cups of stoned cherries. 

T cup of sugar. 

Make a soft paste of flour, with the shortening chopped 
into it, and the milk. Roll out, a quarter of an inch 
thick, into an oblong sheet. Cover this with cherries ; 
sprinkle with sugar, and roll up closely upon the fruit. 
In spreading the cherries, leave a narrow margin on both 
sides of the sheet. Baste the roll up in a bag floured well 
on the inside, and make a " felled " seam at the open end 
to keep out the water. Fit it exactly, but not tightly, to 
the shape of the pudding. Plunge into a pot of boiling 
water and keep it at a steady boil for one hour and a half. 
Dip the bag into cold water, rip the stitches, and turn out 
upon a hot dish. Eat with hard sauce. 
17 



386 JUNE. 



Jouvtl) tDeek. 0unirag. 

Mutton, Rice, and Tomato Broth. 
Glazed Ham. Green Peas. 

Potatoes au Gratin. Stewed Lima Beans 

Tomato Salad. 

Spanish Cream. 
Coffee and Macaroons. 



MUTTON, RICE, AND TOMATO BROTH. 

Take the fat from the surface of the liquor in which 
your mutton was boiled yesterday. Add to this broth the 
bones of the cold mutton well cracked, and let them boil 
slowly one hour and a half. Strain and cool to throw up 
the fat ; remove this, and put the soup over the fire with 
one quart of ripe tomatoes, peeled and cut very fine, and 
half a cup of raw rice. Stew, forty minutes. Add a lump 
of sugar ; more pepper and salt, if needed, and a table- 
spoonful of corn-starch, wet in cold water. Boil one 
minute, and oour out. 

GLAZED HAM. 

Boil a ham on Saturday, allowing twenty minutes to 
the pound, and let it get cold in the liquor. Set by then, 
and, early Sunday morning, skin it carefully, and trim 
away the rusty edges. Brush all over with beaten egg, 
and cover with a paste of rolled cracker wet up with 
milk, seasoned with pepper, and bound with beaten egg. 
It should 'be a quarter of an inch thick. Set the ham in 
the oven until this is lightly browned. Serve cold and 
slice thin. Garnish with frilled paper about the shank. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Shell and lay in cold water fifteen minutes. Cook from 
twenty to twenty-five minutes in boiling salted water. 
Drain, put into a deep dish with a good lump of butter ; 
pepper and salt to taste. 



FOURTH WEEK SUNDAY. 38? 

POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Mash with milk and butter, and press firmly into a 
'pretty mould wet with cold water. Turn out at once ; 
sift fine dry crumbs all over the mould of potato ; set in 
the oven five minutes to get it quite hot again, and serve. 

STEWED LIMA BEANS. 

Shell ; lay in cold water ten minutes. Boil tender in 
hot, salted water. Drain this off, and add a scant cup of 
hot milk ; a good spoonful of butter, rolled in a very little 
flour, with pepper and salt. Simmer three minutes and 
pour into a deep dish. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Peel with a keen knife, and slice red, ripe tomatoes. 
Make a dressing like that for lettuce on Wednesday. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

J- box of Coxe's Gelatine, 
i quart of milk. 
Beaten yolks of 3 eggs. 

1 small cup of sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls flavoring extract orange is very good 

in this cream. 

A little soda. 

Soak the gelatine in the milk two hours. Stir in the 
soda, and heat, stirring often. When scalding hot, pour 
upon the beaten yolks and sugar, and return to the farina- 
kettle. Boil one minute, stirring ceaselessly. Strain 
through tarlatan, and when cold, flavor and put into a 
wet mould. Set on the ice until wanted, and eat with 
cream and sugar. Make this, of course, on Saturday. 

COFFEE AND MACAROONS. 
Bring these on last of all. 



$88 JUNE. 



Jburtlj lUeek. iflontraj). 

Bisque of Lobster. 

A Good "Pick-up" Dish. Baked Potato Ball* 

String-Beans. Lettuce. 

Strawberries and Cream. 
Wine Cake. 

BISQUE OF LOBSTER. 
Meat of one boiled lobster, or a can of preserved 

lobster, 
i quart of milk. 

1 quart of boiling water. 
J- cup rolled cracker. 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Pepper (cayenne) and salt. 

Pound the coral and other soft parts of the lobster to 
a paste, and simmer five minutes in the boiling water ; 
then rub through a colander back into the water. Cut 
the rest of the lobster-meat into dice, and put into a 
saucepan with the cracker-crumbs. Pour the red water 
over them, and heat to a boil, when acid pepper, salt, and 
the butter. Simmer, covered, half an hour, taking care 
it does not scorch. Heat the milk, with a pinch of soda, 
in another vessel, and after the lobster is in the tureen, 
pour this in, boiling hot. Pass sliced lemon with it. 

A GOOD " PICK-UP " DISH. 

2 Ibs. of calf s liver, boiled and cold, 
i Ib. cold cooked ham. 

A cup of gravy, saved from yesterday's soup, and 

strained. 
\ cup bread-crumbs. 

3 eggs, beaten light. 
Parsley. 

A very little minced onion, with pepper and a little salt. 
Chop liver and ham ; wet with the gravy ; mix in sea- 
soning and crumbs, and beat the eggs in. Put the mix- 



FOURTH WEEK TUESDAY. 

ture into a well-greased mould ; cover this and put into a 
dripping-pan full of boiling water. Cook thus one hour 
and a half, keeping plenty of water in the pan, and at a 
steady boil. Turn out upon a dish ; pour a cup of 
drawn butter over it, and serve. 

BAKED POTATO BALLS. 

Rub cold mashed potato, left from yesterday, smooth 
with a spoonful of warmed butter, and soft with warmed 
milk. Beat up an egg in it, and stir, until hot, in a clean, 
greased frying-pan, not allowing it to " catch " on the 
side. Then let it cool. When cold and stiff, make into 
balls, roll these in flour, and bake upon a greased pan. 
until well browned. Pile upon a hot dish. 

STRING-BEANS. 
See Thursday of Second Week in this month. 

LETTUCE. 
See Wednesday of Third Week in this month. 

STRAWBERRIES AND CREAM, AND WINE CAKE. 
For Receipt for Cake please refer to " BREAKFAST 
LUNCHEON AND TEA," page 341. 



Jcmrtt) lUeek. 



Bread-and-Cheese Soup. 

Breast of Lamb with Macaroni. Whole Baked Tomatoes. 
Stewed Peas and French Beans. Sweet Pickle. 

Corn Bread Pudding. 

BREAD-AND-CHEESE SOUP. 
3 Ibs. lean veal, cut into dice. 
A ham bone, cracked. 
i sliced onion. 

1 cup of milk. 

2 beaten eggs. 

i cupful fried bread-dice. 



390 JUNE. 

\ Ib. dry cheese, grated. 

Pepper and salt. 

Chopped parsley. 

3 quarts of cold water. 

i tablespoonful of corn-flour. 

Put meat, bone, onion, and water together, and cook 
slowly four hours. Strain, pressing hard, cool, and ta.ke 
off the fat. Season, and heat to a boil ; put in the pars- 
ley and corn-starch the latter wet with cold water and 
simmer five minutes. Heat the milk in a farina-kettle, 
pour upon the eggs, and re-heat, stirring constantly until 
they begin to thicken. Put bread-dice and cheese into 
the tureen ; pour on the milk and eggs ; then the hot 
soup. Stir up and serve. 

BREAST OF LAMB WITH MACARONI. 
Cover the bottom of a broad pot with very thin slices of 
fat salt pork or ham. Lay the lamb upon them. Take 
all the peel from a small lemon, and slice it, also 
very thin. Cover the lamb with this ; then with more 
sliced pork. Mince a small onion and a bunch of sweet 
herbs, and scatter over these. Pour in a pint of boiling 
water. Put on a close lid with a weight on top, and cook 
very slowly two hours, turning the meat over at the end 
of the first hour. Meantime, boil half a pound of maca- 
roni, broken into short pieces, twenty minutes in a little 
broth, borrowed from your soup ; drain, pepper and salt, 
and arrange into a flat bed, upon a hot meat-dish. Keep 
hot until the lamb is done, when lay it upon the pre- 
pared mound, and set both in the oven while you strain the 
gravy. Thicken it with a little browned flour, and boil 
up once. Pour over the lamb and macaroni. 

WHOLE BAKED TOMATOES. 

Chop fine a half cupful of the veal left after straining 
off the soup. Add half as much chopped ham, and one- 
third the quantity of bread-crumbs. Pepper (and salt, if 
needed). Pat a few spoonfuls of gravy into a saucepan ; 
stir in this force-meat, with a very little onion, and the pulp 
and seeds you have scraped carefully from six or eight 
fine smooth tomatoes. When all are smoking hot, add a 



FOURTH WEEK TUESDAY. 391 

tablespoonful of butter, and when this has melted, take 
from the fire. Set the tomatoes you have hollowed out 
in a pudding-dish. Fill with the mixture ; cover with the 
neat slices you took from the tops ; fill the interstices 
with what remains of the force-meat, and bake nearly an 
hour, or until soft and brown. Keep the dish covered 
for the first half hour. 

STEWED PEAS AND FRENCH BEANS. 

i quart of shelled green peas. 

i pint of string-beans, carefully trimmed. 

1 small onion, sliced thin. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in flour. 

Pepper, salt, and a tablespoonful of tomato catsup. 

1 pint of boiling water. 

Cover peas, beans, and onion with salted boiling water. 
Put on the saucepan lid, and stew for half an hour. Then 
stir in the floured butter, pepper, and catsup ; cover 
again, and simmer fifteen minutes. Turn out into a deep 
dish. The beans should be young, and cut into small 
pieces. 

CORN-BREAD PUDDING. 

2 heaping cups of white Indian meal, 
i heaping cup of flour. 

3 beaten eggs. 
z\ cups of milk. 

i large tablespoonful of melted butter, and twice as 
much white sugar. 

i teaspoonful of soda, and two of cream of tartar, sifted 
twice through the flour. 

i teaspoonful of salt. 

J teaspoonful mingled mace and cinnamon. 

Rub butter and sugar together ; beat in the yolks ; then 
the milk ; the spice ; the salted meal, previously mixed 
with the flour, cream of tartar, and soda. Beat hard for 
five minutes. Pour into a buttered mould, with a top. Set 
in a pot of boiling water the water not quite reaching 
the top and boil steadily two hours. Turn out, cut i* 
slices, and eat with butter and sugar. 



392 JUNE. 



JbtirtI) iDeek. tt)etme0irag. 

A Stew Soup. 
Stuffed Beef's Heart with Horseradish Sauce. 

Beets. 
Scalloped Squash. New Potatoes, 

Gooseberry Tart. 



A STEW SOUP. 

3 Ibs. of lean beef. 

1 Ib. of lean ham. 

2 Ibs. of lean veal. 
2 carrots. 

2 turnips. 

2 onions. 

Bunch of sweet herbs. 

Pepper, salt. 

2 blades of mace. 

\ cup Scotch barley. 

6 quarts of water. 

4 tablespoonfuls good dripping beef or ham. 
Cut the meat into strips, and slice the vegetables. Pu1 

the dripping into the soup-pot ; next the beef ; then a 
layer of vegetables ; next one of ham ; more vegetables 
the veal, the rest of the vegetables, and a cup of cold 
water. Cover, and heat very slowly, then stew until the 
meat is covered with a brown glaze, but not burned. Be 
very careful on this latter point. Now. pour in your six 
quarts of water, and cook steadily at least three hours. 
Strain, take out the scraps of meat, and pulp the vege- 
tables into the soup. Take out two quarts of stock, sea- 
son, and put by, with the meat in it, for to-morrow. Let 
tjie rest cool ; take off the fat ; season, boil up and skim, 
and put in the barley, already soaked two hours in a little 
cold water. Simmer half an hour, and pour out. 

STUFFED BEEF'S HEART WITH HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Wash and soak the heart ten minutes in cold, salt 
water. \\\full with a force-meat of fat salt pork, minced 



FOURTH WEEK WEDNESDAY. 393 

fine with an equal weight of bread-crumbs, a little chopped 
parsley, with pepper, and a small quantity of grated lemon- 
peel. Sew up the swollen heart trimly in coarse net or 
tarlatan, and put on in a saucepan with two cups of weak 
broth, made by taking a cupful from the soup and diluting 
it with water, and half a minced onion. Boil two hours, 
turning twice. Keep closely covered. Make ready a 
cup of drawn butter, and let it get almost cold. Then 
whip in the frothed whites of two eggs, and when stiff, two 
tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish. You can buy it in 
any market. Add the juice of a lemon, unless your horse- 
radish is put up in vinegar. The mixture should look like 
whipped cream. Put into a sauce-boat. When your 
heart is done, remove the cloth, and lay upon a hot dish. 
Strain the gravy ; thicken with browned flour, and pout 
over the heart. Pass the white sauce with it. 

SCALLOPED SQUASH. 

Boil and mash the squash in the customary way, and 
let it cool. Beat the yolks of the two eggs, the whites of 
which were used for the horseradish sauce, and when the 
squash is nearly cold, whip these into it, with three table- 
spoonfuls of milk, one of butter, rolled in flour and melted 
in the milk ; pepper and salt to taste. Pour into a but- 
tered bake-dish, cover with fine crumbs, and bake to a light 
brown in a quick oven. Eat hot. 

BEETS. 

Wash and cut off the tops. Boil more than an hour if 
they are of a fair size. Scrape, slice, and lay in a dish. 
Pour over them a tablespoonful of butter, heated with one 
of vinegar, and seasoned with salt and pepper. If any 
are left over, save them for salad, by pouring vinegar 
upon them. 

NEW POTATOES. 

Rub the skins off, and cook until tender in boiling 
salted water. Serve whole. 

GOOSEBERRY TART. 

Top and tail a quart of green gooseberries. Put into 
a tin or porcelain saucepan with enough water to prevenl 
17* 



394 JUNE. 

burning, and stew 'slowly until they break, stirring often 
Sweeten abundantly, and set by to cool. When cold, 
pour into a pie-dish lined with puff-paste, cover with a 
top crust, and bake in a good oven. Eat cold, but fresh, 
with powdered sugar sifted over the top. 



Jourtl) llUck. 



String-Bean Soup. 

Breaded Mutton Chops. Stewed Tomatoes with Onion, 
Green Corn Boiled Whole. Mashed Potatoes. 

Cherries. 
Raspberries and Cream, and Light Cakes. 

STRING-BEAN SOUP. 

Boil three cups of string-beans rid of all the fibres 
and cut small in hot salted water until very tender. 
Drain and chop them, rub them through a colander to a 
pulp. Take the fat from the stock kept in the ice-box 
since yesterday ; pour off from the meat, and strain into 
a soup pot. Bring to a boil ; skim, and stir in the beans, 
with a great spoonful of butter cut up in as much flour. 
Simmer fifteen minutes ; add seasoning, if necessary, and 
pour upon dice of fried bread in the tureen. 

BREADED MUTTON CHOPS. 

Trim the chops well, leaving an inch of bare bone at 
the small end of each. Dip in beaten egg, then in rolled 
cracker, and fry in hot lard or dripping. Drain, and 
stand upon the large ends in a row about the base of 
your hillock of potatoes. 

STEWED TOMATOES WITH ONION. 

Loosen the tomato-skins with boiling water. Peel and 
slice them, and put into a saucepan with a sliced onion, 
a good piece of butter, pepper, salt, and a little sugar 
Stew gently half an hour. 



FOURTH WEEK FRIDAY. 395 

GREEN CORN BOILED WHOLE. 

Strip off the outer husks ; turn down the innermost 
covering, and pull off the silk with great care. Re-cover 
the eai with the thin inner husk ; tie at the top with a bit 
of thread, and cook in salted boiling water from twenty- 
five to thirty. minutes. Cut off the stalks close to the 
cob, and send the corn to the table wrapped in a napkin 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Mash, and mould into a shapely hillock, fenced about 
with a chevaux de frise of chops. 

CHERRIES. 

Wash, handling gingerly, and heap about a lump of ice 
in a glass bowl. 

RASPBERRIES AND CREAM, WITH LIGHT CAKES. 
Do not sugar the berries in the dish, but pass sugar and 
cream with each saucerful. 



Jotirtl) iDtek. Jrtban. 

Convent Soup. 

Boiled Salmon. Chicken Fried Whole. 

Stewed Onions. Green Peas. 

Potatoes a la Duchesse. 

Cherry Pie. 

CONVENT SOUP. 
3 potatoes. 
2 onions. 
2 carrots. 
2 turnips. 

i pint of green peas. 

i cup of string-beans, cut into short length* 
of a .small cabbage. 
6 tomatoes, peeled and sliced. 
Bunch of sweet herbs. 



396 JUNE. 

J cup of good dripping. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, rolled in flour. 

2 qts. and i pint of boiling water. 

Pepper and salt. 

Parboil, and leave to cool, turnips, carrots, an I pota- 
toes, sliced ; also the chopped cabbage. Slice the onions, 
and fry in the hot dripping for five minutes. Then stir 
in the flour, and simmer until well colored. Turn into a 
soup-kettle the contents of the frying-pan, rinsing out the 
latter with two cups of boiling water, and pour this, also, 
into the soup-pot. When it bubbles, add all the vegeta- 
bles. Stir a few minutes, and put in another pint of hot 
water. Cover, and simmer until all are heated through 
and begin to boil, when put in the rest of the water. 
Cook slowly for two hours, or until all are soft and break- 
ing. Strain, and pulp the vegetables through the colan- 
ander. Season the puree with salt, pepper, and sweet 
herbs, chopped ; stir in your floured butter ; simmer five 
minutes, stirring well, and serve. 

BOILED SALMON. 

The middle slice of salmon is the best. Sew up neatly 
in a mosquito-net bag, and boil a quarter of an hour to 
the pound in hot, salted water. When done, unwrap 
with care, and lay upon a hot dish, taking care not to 
break it. Have ready a- large cupful of drawn butter, 
very rich, in which has been stirred a tablespoonful of 
minced parsley and the juice of a lemon. Pour half 
upon the salmon, and serve the rest in a boat. Garnish 
with parsley and sliced eggs. 

FRIED CHICKEN WHOLE. 

Truss a young, tender chicken as for roasting, but do 
not stuff it. Put into a steamer, or cover closely in a 
colander, over a pot of fast-boiling water for half an hour. 
Have ready some very nice dripping, or a mixture of one- 
third butter, two-thirds lard, in a deep frying- or saucepan. 
Flour the chicken all over, and put in when the fat is hot. 
When the lower side is of a fine brown, turn the fowl. 
When both are cooked, take it out, lay a few slices of 



FOURTH WEEK SATURDAY. 397 

o\iion in the bottom of a tin pail, and put in the chicken. 
Fit on the top, and set in a pot of water, which must be 
kept at a slow boil, half an hour. Rub the chicken well 
with melted butter, in which have been stirred pepper, 
salt, and chopped parsley, and serve. 

STEWED ONIONS, 
See Tuesday of Third Week in this month. 

GREEN PEAS. 
See Sunday of this week. 

POTATOES 1 LA DUCHESSE. 

Cut cold mashed potatoes, round or square, with a 
cake-cutter ; flour well, and bake in the oven, buttering 
as they begin to brown. If the potatoes are too pliable 
to cut out well, mould by pressing firmly into your cutter, 
which should first be wet with cold water. Serve with 
the salmon. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Line a pie-dish with cold crust ; fill with whole cher- 
ries tart and sweet, in equal proportions ; sugar plenti- 
fully ; put on a top crust, and bake in a tolerably brisk 
oven. Eat cold, with powdered sugar sifted over the top. 



Jbuvtl) 



Gravy Soup. 

Lemon Veal. Stewed Squash. 

String-Beans. Raw Cucumbers. 

Bananas and Oranges. 
Cherries. 

GRAVY SOUP. 

6 Ibs. of lean beef. 
i Ib. of ham. 
i carrot. 



398 JUNE. 

1 turnip. 

6 tomatoes. 
Bunch of herbs. 
Pepper and salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls of celery essence. 

1 cucumber. 

2 onions. 

6 quarts of cold water. 
Toasted bread cut into dice. 
i tablespoonful walnut catsup. 
Dripping for frying. 

Cut the meat into strips ; pare and slice the vegetables. 
Fry the onions brown in dripping. Put all together into 
the soup-kettle, with one quart of cold water, and bring 
slowly to a boil. Then pour in a quart of hot water. 
Cook an hour longer still slowly and pour in the rest 
of the water cold. Boil steadily three hours after the 
bubbling recommences. The meat should be done to 
rags, the vegetables broken to pieces. Strain, pulping 
the vegetables through a colander ; then strain a second 
time through a soup-sieve, or squeeze through a double 
tarlatan or mosquito-net bag. Season the soup, and set 
aside your Sunday portion, seasoning the rags of meat 
highly, and returning them to it. (Keep on the ice.) 
Put to-day's soup back into the pot ; boil and skim ; add 
a tablespoonful of walnut catsup and pour upon dice of 
well-buttered toast, laid in the tureen. 

LEMON VEAL. 

3 Ibs. of raw, lean veal, chopped fine. 
J- Ib. of fat salt pork, also minced. 

1 small onion, minced. 
A pinch of lemon peel. 

2 lemons peeled and sliced. 

3 eggs beaten light. 

i cup well-seasoned and strained tomato sauce. 
Pepper and salt. 
Rolled cracker. 

Work meat, eggs, onion and seasoning up soft with the 
tomato -sauce, and stir in enough cracker to enable you 



FOUKitf WEEK SATURDAY. 399 

to mould it with your hands. Press firmly into a wel 
bowl, and invert upon a pie-dish, withdrawing the bowl 
cautiously. Now, sift cracker-dust thickly all over it, and 
cover the top and half-way down the sides with thin slices 
of lemon. Bake one hour in a good oven ; pick off the 
lemon with care and dispatch, and brown nicely on the 
upper grating of the oven. Serve in the pie-dish. 

STEWED SQUASH. 

Pare, slice, lay in cold water fifteen minutes. Cook 
tender in boiling water, salted, drain well, and mash with 
pepper, salt and butter, pressing out all the water. 

STRING-BEANS. 
See Receipt for Monday of this week. 

RAW CUCUMBERS. 

Pare and lay them in ice-water one hour, then slice and 
season to taste with vinegar, pepper and salt. Never omil 
the soaking in ice-water. 

BANANAS AND ORANGES. 
Serve in the same fruit-basket or dish. 

CHERRIES. 
Pile upon a lump of ice in a glass dish. 



400 JULY. 



JULY. 
$\v$\ tUeek. Stmbag. 

Clear Sago Soup. 

Larded Shoulder of Mutton. Scalloped Tomatoes. 

Boiled Corn. New Potatoes Stewed. 

Raspberry and Currant Jelly with Whipped Cream. 
Coffee and Sponge- Cake. 

CLEAR SAGO SOUP. 

Remove the fat from the surface of your cold " stock,' 
pour off without disturbing the sediment, and heat to a 
boil. Skim as long as the scum rises ; then stir in the 
beaten white of an egg, and simmer, skimming well until 
it has brought up with it all the impurities, leaving the 
soup clear. Add half a cup of German sago, previously 
soaked two hours in a little water, and cook gently until 
this is melted ; then serve. 

LARDED SHOULDER OF MUTTON. 

Cut half a pound of salt fat pork into narrow, long lar- 
doons. Roll them in a mixture of pepper, allspice and 
vinegar. If you have no iarding-needle, make incisions 
in the shoulder of mutton with a thin, narrow-bladed knife, 
and thrust in the strips of pork, leaving about a quarter 
of an inch projecting on the upper side. Put into a drip- 
ping-pan, pour two cupfuls of boiling water over it, in 
which has been mixed a glass of claret. Cover with another 
pan, and cook two hours, if the shoulder be of full size. 
Baste frequently for an hour and a half with its own gravy 
then three times with a mixture of melted butter and cur- 
rant jelly, leaving off the upper pan that the meat may 
brown. Dish the meat ; thicken the strained gravy with 
browned flour, and after one boil, serve in a boat. To 
save labor and time on Sunday, lard the meat over night. 



FIRST WEEK SUNDAY. 4O1 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Skin and slice. Cover the bottom of a pie-dish (but- 
tered) with dry crumbs ; lay tomatoes over them. Season 
with pepper, salt, sugar and butter. Put alternate layers 
of crumbs and seasoned tomatoes until the dish is full, 
having crumbs on top. Bake, covered, half an hour, and 
brown slightly. 

BOILED CORN. 

Please see Thursday, Fourth Week in June. 

f NEW POTATOES STEWED. 

Rub or scrape off the skins ; boil in hot salted water 
until done. Turn off the water and dry out on the range. 
Then crack each one by steady pressure with the back 
of a spoon, and drop into a saucepan containing a cup 
of hot milk, pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and a great 
spoonful of butter cut up in flour. Simmer five minutes, 
and pour into a vegetable dish. 

RASPBERRY AND CURRANT JELLY WITH WHIPPED 
CREAM. 

1 quart of red currants and the same of red raspber- 

ries. 

2 cups of white sugar. 

i package Coxe's gelatine, soaked in one cup of cold 
water. 

i cup of boiling water. 

i pint of whipped cream. 

Crush the fruit and strain out every drop of juice 
through coarse muslin. Stir sugar, soaked gelatine, and 
boiling water together. When clear, strain into the fruit 
juice. Strain again through a flannel bag. Pour into 
a wet mould that has a cylinder in the centre. Do this 
on Saturday, and bury in the ice. On Sunday, turn out 
into a glass dish, fill the open centre with whipped cream, 
and pile more about the base. 



402 JULY. 



Jtr0t tUcek. ittonfoag. 

Jugged Soup. 

Potato Barter Pudding. Mashed Squash, 

Chopped Corn and Potatoes. Currant Jelly. 

Corn-starch Custard. 

JUGGED SOUP. 

Early in the day put on the cracked bones from which 
you have cut the cold mutton, with refuse bits of skin, 
crisped meat, etc., into a soup-pot with three quarts of 
water, and boil at the back of the range down to two 
quarts. Strain ; let the liquid cool to throw up the fat, 
and remove this. Have ready in a stone jar, with a top, 
six parboiled potatoes, sliced, laid upon slices of streaked 
pork, cut very thin ; upon this a sliced onion ; next, 
three sliced tomatoes ; then a sliced turnip ; on this a 
cupful of green peas ; three more tomatoes ; then a quar- 
ter-cup of raw rice ; cover this with a grated carrot, and 
this with another layer of sliced pork. Sprinkle a little 
salt and pepper, and a few dots of butter upon each layer 
of vegetables, and put upon the pork some chopped sweet 
herbs. Pour the cooled broth over all ; put on the jar 
lid, with a paste of flour and water around the edge to ex- 
clude the air and keep in the steam, and set in a pan of 
boiling water in the oven. Leave it there as long as 
possible four hours at the least. Pour into the tureen 
without further preparation. 

POTATO BATTER PUDDING. 

Mince and season your cold mutton, wet it with the 
remains of yesterday's gravy and put into a bake-dish. 
Mash six boiled potatoes soft with butter; beat in two 
eggs ; a heaping tablespoonful of prepared flour, and a 
cup of milk. Mix well, and pour over the mutton. Bake 
to a good brown in a moderate oven. One hour will be 
needed to cook it properly. 

MASHED SQUASH. 
See Receipt for Saturday of Third Week in June. 



FIRST WEEK TUESDAY. 

CHOPPED CORN AND POTATOES. 

Cut the corn from the cobs left cold from yesterday 
and chop the cold new potatoes, also left over. Have 
ready in a frying pan a large spoonful of good dripping, 
well seasoned, and hot. Stir in corn and potatoes, and 
toss about until hot and glazed, but not browned. Serve 
in a deep dish. 

CORN-STARCH CUSTARD PUDDING. 

4 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch. 

i quart of milk. 

4 beaten eggs. 

i cup of sugar. 

Nutmeg and cinnamon. 

i tablespoonful of butter. 

Heat the milk ; stir in the corn-starch wet up in cold milk, 
and cook in a farina-kettle three minutes. Take from the 
fire ; beat in the butter, and let it cool. When cold, beat 
in the eggs and sugar, with the spice. Whip two min- 
utes, and bake in a buttered dish until lightly browned 
and well set. Eat cold, with sugar sifted over it. 



first 



Veal Broth. 

Beefsteak. Boiled Onions. 

Mashed Potatoes Moulded. String-Beans Sautes. 

Raspberries, Cream, and Cake. 

VEAL BROTH. 
3 Ibs. scrag of veal the meat chopped and bones 

splintered. 
t onion. 

T cup of raw rice. 

Chopped parsley, pepper and salt. 
Some salt-pork bones and rind, if convenient. 
i turnip. 
3 quarts of water. 



404 JULY. 

Put meat, bones, and vegetables, with the water, over 
the fire, and cook slowly three hours. Strain the broth 
and pulp the vegetables. Take off the fat ; season the 
broth, add the rice, and stew gently until this is soft. 

BEEFSTEAK. 
See Tuesday of Third Week in June. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Top, tail, and skim. Cook fifteen minutes in boiling 
water. Drain this off and throw it away. Replenish the 
pot with boiling water, put in a little salt, and stew ten- 
'der. Drain, dish, season well with pepper and salt, and 
butter liberally. 

MASUED- POTATOES MOULDED. 

Mash smooth, but not too soft, with butter and milk. 
Wet a jelly-mould, fill with the potatoes, pressed in firmly. 
Shake gently out upon a flat dish, set one minute in the 
hot oven, and serve. 

STRING-BEANS SAUTES. 

Trim, cut in short pieces, and cook tender in boiling 
salted water. Meanwhile, take half a cup of broth from 
your soup, season well, boil, and skim for fifteen minutes ; 
then add a tablespoonful of butter. While these are boil- 
ing stir in the beans ; shake and stir for three minutes, 
add a teaspoonful of vinegar, and pour out. 

RASPBERRIES, CREAM, AND CAKE. 

When you can give an uncooked dessert, which is more 
palatable and more wholesome than a cooked one, and that 
costs no more, it is wise policy to avail yourself of the 
consequent lightening of your labors, especially in hot 
weather. Except when it is necessary to deviate from 
the rule in order to secure the requisite variety, let cold 
desserts be the order of the day in your bills of fare, while 
the "heated term " lasts. 



FIRST WEEK WEDNESDAY. 4OS 



tXUek. 

French Potage. 

Beef a la Mode. Macaroni with Tomato Sauce. 

Lima Beans. Fried Cucumbers. 



Lemon Trifle. 

* 

FRENCH POTAGE. 

2 Ibs. lean beef. 
2 Ibs. of lean veal. 
\ Ib. of lean ham. 

1 sliced onion. 
Chopped sweet herbs. 
12 large prunes. 
Pepper and salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls soaked granulated tapioca. 
5 quarts of water. 

Put the veal, cut into strips, and the sliced onion, into 
a soup-pot with the butter, and simmer, stirring con- 
stantly, until they are coated with a brown glaze. They 
must not scorch. Now pour in one quart of boiling water ; 
cover, and stew half an hour. Check the boil suddenly 
with a gallon of cold water, and put in beef, ham, and 
herbs. Cover again, and bojl gently three hours. Take 
out the strips of veal, beef, and ham, when you have 
strained oft" the water, and pulp the onion. Set aside half 
the stock, highly seasoned, with the meat in it, for to-mor- 
row. Skim the fat from the rest, season, and put back 
over the fire with the prunes, stoned, and cut into thirds, 
after being well washed. Simmer half an hour, put in the 
tapioca ; cook until this is clear, and pour out. 

BEEF i LA MODE. 

For full and explicit directions concerning this dish 
please refer to spare me work, time, and space to Sun 
day, Second Week in May. 



406 JUL y. 

MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Bieak half a pound of macaroni into inch-lengths, and 
cook twenty minutes in boiling salted water. Meantime, 
take a cup of broth from your soup ; strain, boil, and skim it, 
and slice into it four ripe tomatoes. Stew tender, and strain 
through net or tarlatan, into a saucepan. Season well ; 
stir into it a great spoonful of butter rolled in flour. Sim- 
mer five minutes ; put the macaroni into a deep dish, 
sprinkling grated cheese over each layer, and pour the hot 
sauce over it, opening the mass with a fork, to let it reach 
the lower layers. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Shell, lay in cold water fifteen minutes, and cook from 
twenty-five to thirty minutes in salt boiling water. Drain 
well ; season with pepper, salt, and butter. 

FRIED CUCUMBERS. 

Pare, cut into lengthwise slices, more than a quarter of 
an inch thick, and lay for half an hour in ice-water. Wipe 
each piece dry ; sprinkle with pepper and salt, and dredge 
with flour. Fry to a light brown in good dripping or but- 
ter. Drain well, and serve hot. 


LEMON TRIFLE. 

i large sliced sponge cake, 
i quart of milk. 

3 e gg s - 

5 heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

i teaspoonful extract of lemon. 

i lemon all the juice and half the rind finely grated. 

Heat the milk, stir in four tablespoonfuls of sugar into 
the beaten yolks and pour the hot milk upon it, by de- 
grees, stirring well. Return to the custard-kettle, and 
stir until it begins to thicken. Flavor, and pour, quite hot, 
upon the sliced cake laid in the bottom of a deep dish. 
If the dish be of glass, roll it in hot water before cake and 
custard go in. Put a heavy saucer on the cake to keep it 
from rising, and let it cool. When perfectly cold, heap 
upon it a meringue of the beaten whites, whipped up with 
the other tablespoonful of sugar, the lemon-juice and rind: 
Set on ice until wanted. 



FIRST WEEK THURSDAY. 



;fir0t fthek. 



Italian Paste Soup. 

Cold Beef a la Mode. Broiled Spanish Mackerel 

Mashed Potatoes. Green Peas. 

Raw Tomatoes. 



Cream Raspberry Pie, 



ITALIAN PASTE SOUP. 

Take the fat from your cold soup-stock ; pour off from 
the sediment ; boil and skim, adding a tablespoonful of 
walnut or mushroom catsup. When the scum, ceases to 
rise, put in a quarter of a pound of Italian paste i. e. t 
something like macaroni cut into small figures, letters, 
stars, and the like. Simmer twenty minutes and pour out. 

BROILED SPANISH MACKEREL. 

Clean, wash, and wipe dry. Split, so that when laid flat 
the backbone will be in the middle. Sprinkle with salt 
and lay, inside down, upon a buttered gridiron, over a clear 
fire, until it is nicely colored, then turn. When done, put 
upon a hot dish, butter plentifully and pepper. Put a 
hot cover over it and send to table. 

COLD BEEF A" LA MODE. 

Smooth the round on the top and garnish with pickled 
beets and parsley. Shave off horizontal slices in carving. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Pass with the fish, and, if you like, again when the meat 
comes on. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Shell, lay in cold water fifteen minutes ; cook from 
twenty to twenty-five minutes in boiling saltwater, adding 
a lump of sugar unless they are just gathered. Drain very 
well, dish, pepper, salt, and butter. 



408 JULY. 

RAW TOMATOES. 

Pare and slice with a sharp knife. Lay in a glass dish 
and pour over them a dressing made thus : Rub a tea- 
spoonful of sugar, half as much each of salt, pepper, and 
made mustard, into two tablespoonfuls of oil. Beat into 
this the yolk of a raw egg, and then, a few drops at a time, 
five tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

CREAM RASPBERRY PIE. 

Line a pie-dish with puff paste, and fill with raspberries, 
sweetened bountifully. Cover with a paste-crust, but do not 
pinch this down at the edges. Also rub the edge of the 
lower crust with butter to prevent adhesion. Bake in a good 
oven. While it is cooking, heat a small cup of rich milk, 
putting in a pinch of soda stir into it half a teaspoonful 
of corn-starch, wet in cold milk, one tablespoonful of white 
sugar, and cook three minutes. Take it oft", and beat in 
the frothed whites of two eggs. Whip to a cream, and let 
it get cold. When the pie comes out of the oven, lift the 
top crust and pour in the mixture. Replace the crust and 
set aside to cool. Sift sugar upon the top before serving. 



J"u*0t lUcek. 

Tomato Soup without Meat. 

Chicken, Stewed Whole. Baked Squash, 

Rice Croquettes. Potato Omelette. 

Cherry Bread Pudding. 

TOMATO SOUP WITHOUT MEAT. 
12 large red tomatoes, peeled and sliced. 

1 small onion, sliced. 

2 tablespoonfuls nice dripping. 

1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in flour. 
Pepper and salt. 

i teaspoonful of sugar. 

i small cupful of hot boiled rice. 

i quart of boiling water. 



FIRST WEEK FRIDAY. 409 

Fry the onion in the soup-pot in the dripping. When 
they are of a reddish-brown, add the tomatoes and stir all 
up until very hot, when put in the boiling water and pars- 
ley. Stew half an hour, and strain, rubbing the tomato 
through a sieve into the hot liquid. Return to the pot, 
season, and when boiling again, stir in the floured butter, 
and a minute later the rice. Simmer ten minutes and 
pour out. 

CHICKEN STEWED WHOLE. 

Truss as for roasting ; but do not stuff it. Put a layer 
of fat salt pork in the bottom of a saucepan ; then, some 
sliced onion and parsley. Lay in the chicken and put in 
a cupful of gravy made by boiling the feet and giblets, 
and, when these are taken out, add a good spoonful of 
butter to the weak broth. Cover the saucepan closely, 
and stew one hour, slowly. Turn the fowl, and stew one 
hour more, keeping it covered. Take it out of the pot ; 
lay upon a dish, and thicken the gravy, after straining it, 
with a little browned flour. Pepper, also, to taste, and 
pour over the fowl, which should be so tender as to fall 
apart under the carver's knife. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Boil, mash, and let it get cold. Then, beat up light 
with a tablespoonful of melted butter, two raw eggs ; three 
tablespoonfuls of milk, with pepper and salt to liking. 
Put into a buttered bake-dish ; sift dry crumbs over the 
top, and bake in a quick oven. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

Boil a cup of rice soft ; work into it, while hot, a table- 
spoonful of butter, one of grated cheese, pepper, salt, and 
a beaten egg. Spread out to cool. Chop the boiled gib- 
lets of your chicken fine with a slice or so of your cold 
beef, wet with a little gravy, but not too soft. Make the 
cold rice into square, flat cakes. Lay in the centre of 
each a teaspoonful of the mince. Close the cakes so as 
to have this in the middle ; mould into oval balls ; dip in 
beaten egg : then, roll in cracker-crumbs and grated 
cheese, and fry in good dripping, or lard. Drain well, 
and heap upon a hot dish. 
18 



410 JULY. 

POTATO OMELETTE. 

6 eggs. 

cup of milk. 

i small cup mashed potato, seasoned with pepper and 
salt. 

Bu tter for frying. 

Beat yolks and whites together. Thin the potato with 
the milk, and strain through a colander. Stir into the 
eggs, have the butter warm in the pan, pour in the mix- 
ture ; shake, and loosen with a spatula, and when nearly 
done, hold it under the red-hot grate to brown the upper 
side. Invert the pan above a very hot dish, and turn out 
without folding. Serve at once, as it soon falls. 

CHERRY BREAD PUDDING. 

i quart of milk, with a pinch of soda stirred in. 

Loaf of stale baker's bread, pared and sliced. 

Butter to spread the bread. 

4 eggs. 

i cup of sugar. 

i full cup of stoned cherries. 

Butter the bread on both sides. Put a layer into a 
buttered bake-dish ; pour upon it a little raw custard, 
made of the eggs, sugar, and milk. Strew over this some 
of the cherries, and lay in more buttered bread. Proceed 
in this order until the dish is full. The upper layer should 
be bread particularly well-buttered and soaked. Cover 
the dish closely ; set in a dripping-pan full of boiling 
water, and cook one hour ; then ur cover, and brown 
delicately. Turn out upon a plate, and eat hot with 
sauce. 



FIRST WEEK S A TURD A Y. 4 1 ' 

Jfcrt 



Consomme Soup. 

Braised Veal. Cauliflower with Sauce. 

Raw Cucumbers. Green Corn Pudding. 



Cottage Puffs. 

CoNSOMMis SOUP. 

' . ' \ 
I old chicken. 

3 Ibs. of lean beef, 
i onion. 

1 turnip. 

2 carrots. 

Bunch of sweet herbs. 
7 quarts of cold water. 

4 cup sago, soaked in cold water. 
Pepper and salt. 

Cut the beef into strips, and joint the chicken. Slice 
the vegetables, chop the herbs, and put on all with the 
water, to cook slowly for six hours. Take out the 
chicken and beef; salt and pepper and put into a jar. 
Strain the soup, pulping the vegetables through a colan- 
der. Season and divide it ; pouring half upon the meat 
in the jar, and setting in a pot of hot water to cook, cov- 
ered, two hours more. Heat the rest, and skim ; put in 
the sago, and simmer for half an hour ; then pour out. 

When the two hours have elapsed, pour out the stock 
into a bowl, and, when cold, put upon ice. 

BRAISED VEAL. 

The breast is a good piece for this purpose. Put three 
or four spoonfuls of sweet dripping in a broad saucepan, 
and when hot, lay in the veal and fry on both sides. 
Pour over it two cupfuls of broth, taken from your soup ; 
a minced onion and a couple of sliced tomatoes. Cover 
and stew forty-five minutes. Take out the veal and keep 
warm, while you strain and skim the gravy, and return to 
the pot with pepper, salt, and minced summer savory, 



412 JULY. 

also, a pinch of mace, a lump of sugar, and a piuch of 
grated lemon -peel. Put back the meat, and stew half an 
hour more. Lay on a dish, thicken the gravy, boil once, 
and pour over the veal. 

CAULIFLOWER, WITH SAUCE. 

i head of cauliflower. 

i cup of drawn butter. 

Juice of a lemon. 

Tie the cauliflower in a net and boil in hot, salted 
water from thirty-five to fifty minutes, in proportion to its 
size. Take up, undo the net, lay in a deep dish, blossom 
Upward, and pour over it a cup of rich drawn butter, 
with the juice of a lemon stirred in. 

RAW CUCUMBERS. 
See Saturday, Fourth Week in June. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING. 
Grated corn of 12 large ears. 

1 quart of milk. 
3 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 
i tablespoonful of sugar. 

A little salt. 

Beat the yolks well ; then add the corn, the butter and 
salt, and stir up hard with your " beater." Then comes 
the milk, next the sugar ; lastly, the whites. Bake in a 
greased pudding-dish, covered, one hour. Then brown 
well. Serve hot in the bake-dish. 

COTTAGE PUFFS. 

i cup of milk and one of cream. 

4 beaten eggs. 

i tablespoonful of butter, rubbed into the flour. 

A little salt. 

4 cups of prepared flour, or enough for cake batter. 

Mix the whipped yolks with the milk and cream ; then 
the salt and the whites ; lastly, the flour. Beat fast and 
well, and bake in "gem" pans. The oven should be 
quick. Eat hot, with sauce. 



SECOND WEEK SUNDAY. 4*3 

0C0ntr 



Bechamel Soup. 

Boiled Mutton. Chicken Rissoles. 

String Beans. Green Peas. 

Raw Tomatoes. 

Self-freezing Ice-Cream. 
BECHAMEL SOUP. 

Take the fat from the jellied stock in your refrigerator ; 
dip it out carefully from the meat taking care of the 
chicken and heat in a saucepan. Scald a quart of milk 
in another vessel, and stir into it a large spoonful of corn- 
starch, wet with cold milk. Pepper and salt to taste 
(the milk should have had a pinch of soda in it), and 
pour into the tureen. Add the boiling soup, stir up well, 
and serve. 

BOILED MUTTON. 

The leg is best for this purpose, and will look much 
nicer when served, if it has been tied up in very coarse, 
thin muslin, or in white mosquito-netting. Put on in 
plenty of boiling salted water, and cook a quarter of an 
hour to the pound. Unwrap .when done, brush all over 
with butter, and serve with a boat of drawn butter, in 
which have been stirred two dozen capers or pickled 
nasturtium-seed. Take care of the liquor. 

CHICKEN RISSOLES. 

Cut the chicken, boiled in your soup, from the bones, 
and chop fine. Add to it a cupful of mashed potato, 
whipped to a cream, a beaten egg, pepper arid salt ; wet 
soft with a little of the soup, and heat in a frying-pan, 
in which has been melted a little butter. Stir until very 
hot, and let it get perfectly cold. You can see that this 
is done before morning service, if you have an early din- 
ner on Sunday. When cold, make into balls ; roll in 
egg, then in cracker-crumbs, and fry to a light brown in 



4H JULY. 

lard or nice dripping. Drain off the fat, and serve hot 
upon a folded napkin. 

STRING-BEANS. 
See Monday of Fourth Week in Juno. 

GREEN PEAS AND RAW TOMATOES. 
See Thursday of First Week in July. 

SELF-FREEZING ICE-CREAM. 
i quart of rich milk. 
8 beaten eggs, 

3 pints of rich, sweet cream. 

4 cups of sugar. 

i vanilla bean, broken in two, and boiled in the cus- 
tard, or 5 teaspoonfuls of vanilla essence. 

Heat the milk ; pour it upon the eggs and sugar. Cook, 
stirring steadily fifteen minutes, or until it has thickened 
well. When perfectly cold, add the cream. Make the cus 
tard on Saturday, and set on ice. Early Sunday morning, 
beat in the cream, and put ail in an old-fashioned up- 
right freezer, set in its pail. Put a block of ice within a 
stout sack, or between the folds of a piece of carpeting, 
and beat small with a hammer. Put a thick layer into 
the outer part, then one of rock-salt. Fill the pail in this 
order, and, before covering the freezer with ice, beat the 
custard for five minutes witli a flat sticlc or ladle. Shut 
tightly ; pack pounded ice and salt over it, and put a folded 
carpet over all. In an hour and a half, open the freezer, 
first wiping off the salt from about the top. Dislodge the 
frozen custard from sides and bottom with a long knife, 
and beat and stir with your stick, faithfully, until the 
custard is a smooth paste. Replace the cover ; let off the 
water, and pack more pounded ice and salt about it, com- 
pletely concealing the freezer. Put back the folded car- 
pet. The cream will take care of itself for three hours, 
and more, and you can, if you like, leave it all day, with 
a visit of three minutes every few hours, to let off the 
water and pack in more salt and ice. Do not open the 
freezer until you are ready for the cream. Then take it 
out, wipe it off, wrap a towel wrung out in hot watef 



SECOND WEEK MONDAY. 41 5 

about the lower part, and invert it upon a .flat dish. 
Should the weather be very hot, you may have to let off 
the water oftener than once in three hours ; but this sel- 
dom happens if the freezer be set in a cool cellar. 



\ 

Seconir tDttk. Ulonirag. 

Brown Soup. 

Ragoflt of ^Mutton. Squash a la Creme. 

Mashed Potatoes. Lettuce Salad. 

Raspberries, Cream, and Cake. 
Iced Coffee. 



BROWN SOUP. 

Ib. lean bacon ; 2 onions ; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter ; 
i scant teaspoonful mixed allspice and cloves ; 2 table- 
spoonfuls browned flour ; liquor in which your mutton 
was boiled ; pepper. 

Cut the bacon into strips, and slice the onions. Put 
the butter into your soup-pot with these, and simmer, stir- 
ring often, until they are browned, but not scorched. 
Add the flour, wet up in cold water, and stir until very 
hot. Then, having taken the fat from the top of your 
mutton " pot-liquor," pour it in, with pepper and parsley. 
Add by degrees, stirring well, not to lump the flour. 
Cover, and set at the back of the range to simmer for two 
hours more would not hurt it. When ready for it, strain 
into the tureen. 

RAGOUT OF MUTTON. 

Slice even, rather thick slices, without skin or fat, from 
your boiled mutton, and lay in a deep dish. Pour a good 
glass of claret wine over them, and cover for an hour. 
Make a gravy of the bones and refuse portions with a 
quart of cold water. When this has boiled down to a 
pint, strain it off. Let it cool, and take off the fat. Put 
into a saucepan with a little minced onion, pepper, salt, 
and a tablespoonful of tomato catsup, and boil down to a 



416 JULY. 

large cupful. Then. 'stir in a tablespoonful of browned 
flour, wet up in cold water ; simmer three minutes ; add 
the sliced meat and wine, with a little grated lemon-peel 
and a teaspoonful of currant jelly. Let all get hot slowly, 
but the meat must not boil, or it will be tough. Set at 
one side of the range to heat, until you are ready to pour 
it into a deep dish. 

SQUASH A LA CRME. 

Boil and mash in the customary manner ; press out all 
the water, and beat in a tablespoonful of melted butter, 
with two of cream, heated, pepper and 'salt to taste; 
lastly, a beaten egg. Put the mixture into a pail, and set 
in boiling water fifteen minutes, stirring often, and keep- 
ing the water at a boil. It should look like rich custard. 
Serve in a deep dish. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Prepare as usual, and serve without browning. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Pick out and pull apart the hearts ; pile in a glass dish ; 
sprinkle with sugar, and season to taste with oil, vinegar, 
pepper, and salt. 

RASPBERRIES, CREAM, AND CAKE. 

Since your soup and ragout have taken more time and 
labor than you like to give to Monday's dinner, make up 
for the loss by serving the dessert given above, sure that 
nobody will murmur. 

ICED COFFEE. 

Make more coffee than usual at breakfast-time, and 
stronger. Add one-third as much hot milk as. you have 
cotfee, and set away. When cold, put upon ice. Serve 
at dessert, with cracked ice in each tumbler. 



SECOND WEEK TUESDAY. 4*7 

Seconb 



Cabbage Soup. 

Mock Pigeons. Green Peas. 

Cucumber Salad. Lima Beans. 

Farina Pudding, Cold. 



CABBAGE SOUP. 

2 Ibs. of lean beef, chopped, and the same of mutton- 
bones, well cracked ; i small, firm white cabjpage ; i 
onion ; bunch of sweet herbs ; i cup of milk, heated, with 
a pinch of soda ; i tablespoonful of butter, rubbed in one 
of flour ; pepper and salt ; 3 quarts of water. 

Cook beef, onion, and bones in the water four hours, 
boiling slowly. Boil the cabbage in two waters ; let it 
get cold, and shred only the white parts into rather coarse 
dice. Cool the soup, and take off the fat. Put over the 
fire with pepper and salt and the chopped herbs. Hav- 
ing boiled it one minute, skim, and put in the cabbage. 
Heat the milk in a separate vessel ; stir in the floured 
butter ; boil until it thickens, and pour into the tureen. 
When the cabbage-soup reaches the boil, pour it upon 
the milk, and stir up well. 

MOCK PIGEONS. 

Take the bone from two nice fillets of veal ; flatten 
them with the broad side of a hatchet, and spread with a 
good force-meat of crumbs and chopped ham, seasoned 
well. Roll the meat up on this ; bind into oblong rolls 
with soft string ; lay in a dripping-pan, and pour over 
them two cups of your boiling soup before the cabbage 
goes in or any other hot broth will do as well. Turn a 
pan over them and bake nearly two hours, basting well 
with the gravy. When done, lay upon a hot dish, while 
you thicken the gravy with browned flour, and season 
well with pepper, salt, and tomato catsup. Boil one 
minute, and pour part over the pigeons, the rest into a 
boat. Clip the strings carefully, and do not pull them 
18* 



41 S JULY. 

hard in removing thei i, lest you spoil the shape of the 
meat. 

GREEN PEAS. 
See Wednesday, First Week in this month. 

LIMA BEANS. 
See Thursday of First Week in July. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 
See Saturday of First Week in July. 

FARINA PUDDING COLD. 

i quatf fresh milk ; 3 tablespoonfuls of farina, soaked 
one hour in a little cold water ; 3 eggs ; 4 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar ; a little salt ; flavoring essence. 

Heat three-quarters of the milk, salt it, and stir in the 
farina. Cook half an hour, stirring often ; take it off, and 
pour upon the eggs, sugar, and the other cup of milk, 
beaten together. Return to the farina-kettle, and stir ten 
minutes longer. Pour out, beat in the flavoring, and put 
into a wet mould. Set on the ice, when cool. It will 
soon form. Eat with cream, or fruit syrup. 



lUetk. 



Crab Soup. 

Savory CalPs Head. Stewed Tomatoes. 

Potato Puff. Boiled Corn. 

Cherry Souffle. 

CRAB SOUP. 

Two pounds of lean veal chopped, covered with two 
quarts of cold water, boiled down one-half, strained, 
cooled, skimmed and seasoned ^'th pepper and salt. 
Meat of three large crabs, boiled and cold. One pint 
milk, and a pinch of soda stirred into it. Pepper, salt, 
nutmeg, one teaspoonful of anchovy paste. One cup of 



SECOND WEEK WEDNESDAY. 419 

boiled rice soft and hot. Tablespoonful of floured butter. 
Return the broth prepared as directed above to the 
fire, with the rice, and simmer until the latter is broken to 
pieces. Strain, rubbing the rice through the sieve ; set 
over the fire, adding the nutmeg and anchovy ; then the 
crab meat, cut into small dice. Simmer ten minutes lon- 
ger it must not actually boil and pour into the tureen. 
Add the boiling milk, which has been thickened with the 
floured butter ; stir up well and serve. Pass sliced lemon, 
crackers and butter with it. 

SAVORY CALF'S HEAD. 

Wash the head well it should of course have been 
cleaned with the skin on ; take out the tongue and brains ; 
boil them in a separate vessel, and keep on ice for to- 
morrow's soup. Put on the head (the two sides tied into 
th< original shape by, a band of tape) in plenty of cold 
water, slightly salt, and cook gently one hour and a half. 
Ta.ke out, wipe dry, score the cheeks in squares, and 
wa.sh the head on top and sides, with beaten egg. Sift 
over it a mixture of rolled cracker, pepper and salt ; and 
set in a quick oven. In ten minutes, baste with melted 
butter ; five minutes later, with a cupful of broth from the 
pot poured gradually over it. Cover with thick white 
paper and cook ten minutes longer, then dish, with thin 
slices of crisped ham laid about it. Thicken the gravy in 
the pan with browned flour, and send up in a boat. Save 
the pot-liquor for soup, seasoning it, and keeping in a cold 
place. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Loosen the skins by pouring boiling water upon them. 
Peel, slice, and put into a saucepan with a little minced 
onion, pepper, salt and sugar, and stew from twenty-five 
to thirty minutes. Just before taking them 'up, add a good 
lump of butter. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Mash the potatoes very light and soft ; whipping in 
milk, butter, salt, and two beaten eggs. Heap within a 
greased bake-dish, and set in a good oven until well 
browned. Serve in the bake-dish. 



420 JULY. 

BOILED CORN. 
See Thursday, Fourth Week in June. 

CHERRY SOUFFLE". 

2 cups of milk ; i cup of prepared flour ; 5 eggs ; 4 
tablespoonfuls sugar ; i teaspoontul bitter almond flavor- 
ing ; i cup of stoned cherries, dredged with flour ; a pinch 
of salt. 

Scald the milk and pour it a little at a time upon 
the flour, stirring constantly, to a smooth batter. Return 
to the custard kettle, and stir until thick as hasty pudding. 
Pour, still hot, upon the yolks beaten up with the sugar. 
Whip up thoroughly and let it cool. Whisk the whites very 
stiff and beat rapidly into the cold paste. Butter a mould, 
line thickly with the dredged cherries, and put in the mix- 
ture, carefully, not to disturb the cherries, which should 
stick to the buttered sides. Allow room for swelling in 
the mould. Put on the top, set in a pot of boiling water, 
and cook for an hour and a half. Dip into cold water, 
and turn out upon a hot dish. Eat soon, with a good 
pudding sauce. 



Scconir tDeek. 



Plain Calf's Head Soup. 

Fried Chickens. Fried Kidney-Beans. 

New Potatoes. Lettuce Salad. 

Beets, Sautes. 

Blackcap Shortcake, Hot. 



PLAIN CALF'S HEAD SOUP. 

i Ib. of lean, beef cut into strips and fried brown, with 
a sliced onion, in dripping ; i grated carrot ; i sliced tur- 
nip ; bunch of herbs chopped ; pot-liquor from yesterday's 
calf s head. 

Skim the cold broth, and put on with the fried meat 



SECOND WEEK THURSDAY. \2\ 

and onions, the herbs and vegetables. Cook gently three 
hours, and strain. Add a tablespoonful heaping of 
browned flour wet in cold water ; simmer a minute, and 
put in the cold tongue and brains kept from yesterday 
cut into dice. Cook gently three minutes, and pour 
out. 

FRIED CHICKENS. 

Cut up a pair of young chickens, as for fricassee. Lay 
in cold water for one minute, and, without wiping them, 
pepper and salt each piece ; roll in flour and fry in hot 
lard to a fine brown. Pile upon a hot-water dish ; fry 
some whole bunches of green parsley in the lard, and lay 
over and about them. This is the famous fried chicken 
of the South. 

FRIED KIDNEY-BEANS. 

Boil tender in hot salted water, drain, and when nearly 
cold, mash them, partially, leaving here and there a whole 
grain. Have ready in a frying-pan some strips of fat 
salt pork fried crisp in their own grease. Season this 
with pepperj and stir in the beans. Cpok, stirring briskly, 
until smoking hot. Dish with the crisped pork on top. 

NEW POTATOES. 

Rub, or scrape off the skins ; cook until tender, in hot 
salted water ; dry in the open pot on the range, after drain 
ing them, and serve. 

BEETS SAUTES. 

Boil and slice as for plain boiled beets. Put into a 
saucepan with a great spoonful of butter, the same of vin- 
egar, with pepper and salt. Shake and toss until they are 
glazed with the hot butter ; then dish. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 
See Monday of this Week. 

BLACKCAP SHORTCAKE HOT. 
Please see Wednesday of Second Week in June. 



422 JULY. 



tUcck. 



Soup a la Bonne Femme. 

Mashed Potatoes. Roast Ducks, 

Raw Tomatoes. Green Peas. 



Currant and Raspberry Tart. 

SOUP A LA BONNE FE-MME. 

2 Ibs. of good white fish halibut, bass, or pickerel will 
"o ; 3 eggs ; i cup of milk ; i onion ; bunch of sweet 
herbs ; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed in flour ; cayenne 
and salt to taste ; a little nutmeg ; 3 quarts of water. 

Boil together fish, herbs, and onion in cold water for 
two hours. Strain ; pick the fish from the bones, and 
chop so fine that you can rub it through the colander into 
the soup. Season, and put back into the soup-pot. Sim- 
mer ten minutes and stir in the butter. Heat the milk 
in a farina-kettle ; pour it upon the beaten eggs, and stir 
over the fire until it begins to thicken. Pour into the 
tureen, add the soup, stir up well, and serve. It is well to 
add a pinch of soda to the milk in heating. 

ROAST DUCKS. 

Clean, wash, and stuff the ducks ; adding sage and onion 
to the force-meat for one. Fill the other with the ordinary 
poultry dressing. Lay in the dripping-pan ; pour a cup 
of boiling water over them, and roast, basting often, about 
twelve minutes to the pound, unless they are very young 
and tender. Take them up ; strain the gravy, and take 
off the fat. Season ; thicken with browned flour, and pour 
into a boat. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Whip boiled mealy potatoes to pieces with a fork, and, 
when they are a powdery pile, whip in butter, milk, and 
salt. They should be light and creamy. Pile roughly 
upon a hot dish. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Shell ; lay in cold water fifteen minutes ; put on in boil- 
ing salted water, with a lump of loaf-sugar, if they are 



SECOND WEEK SATURDAY. 423 

market peas. Boil twenty minutes, if young ; drain very 
dry ; dish, and season with pepper, salt and plenty of butter. 

RAW TOMATOES. 

Peel with a keen knife. Slice, and lay in a glass bowl, 
and pour on a dressing made by rubbing together half a 
teaspoonful each of pepper, salt, sugar, and made- mus- 
tard, with two tablespoonfuls of best oil, beating into this, 
a few drops at a time, five tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and 
at last the yolk of a raw egg. Set the salad upon the ice 
for half an hour. 

CURRANT AND RASPBERRY TART. 

Mix together three cups of currants and one of rasp- 
berries. Sweeten abundantly ; fill shells of good pie-paste 
with them ; cover with crust, and bake. Eat cold, with 
powdered sugar sifted over them. 



iDeek. Sciturircit). 



Pea and Tomato Soup. 

Salmi of Ducks. Mashed Squash. 

String-Beans. Cucumbers. 

Almond Corn-Starch Blanc-Mange. 

PEA* AND TOMATO SOUP. 

i Ib. of lean ham ; 2 Ibs. of lean beef ; 2 Ibs. of lean 
veal; 2 onions; bunch of sweet herbs; 12 tomatoes; 
i quart of green peas ; 5 quarts of water ; pepper and 
salt to taste ; corn-starch ; sugar. 

Cook the meat, cut into strips, and the herbs and onions 
in the cold water four hours. Strain ; put the meat and 
half the stock on the ice after seasoning well for Sun- 
day. Season the rest, when you have cooled and skimmed 
it, and put over the fire with the sliced tomatoes and 
peas. Boil slowly half an hour. Pulp through a colan- 
der ; stir in a tablespoonful of corn-starch wet with cold 
water, and a tablespoonful of white sugar. Simmer five 
minutes, and pour out. 



424 JULY. 

SALMI OF DUCKS. 

Cut the meat neatly from the bones, having the slices as 
nearly as possible of uniform size. Make a gravy of the 
bones, stuffing, skin, etc., and a quart of water, boiling 
gently down to one large cupful. Skim and strain this 
into a saucepan. Add the juice of a lemon, and browned 
flour for thickening ; stir smooth, and lay in the sliced 
duck. Warm slowly at one side of the range, but do not 
let it boil. When very hot, pour upon oblong slices of 
fried toast covering the bottom of a hot dish. 

MASHED SQUASH. 

Peel, quarter, and boil soft. Mash in a hot colander, 
pressing hard. Serve in a deep dish, with butter, pepper, 
and salt beaten in. 

STRING-BEANS. 

Cut off the strings from both sides; cut in to 'short 
lengths, and cook tender in boiling salt water. They .re- 
quire twice as much time as peas. Drain, season with 
pepper, salt, and butter. Set aside half for to-morrow's 
salad. 

CUCUMBERS. 

Peel and lay in ice-water one hour. Slice ; put upon & 
lump of ice in a salad-dish, and season to taste upon sau- 
cers after they are helped out. 

ALMOND CORN-STARCH BLANC-MANGE. 

i quart of milk ; 4 tablespoonfuls of corn starch ; 3 eggs ; 
J Ib. almonds, blanched, dried, and pounded ; rose-watei 
and bitter almond ; cup of powdered sugar.' 

Scald the milk, with a pinch of soda stirred in. Have 
the almonds beaten to a paste with a teaspoonful of rose- 
water, and stir into the hot milk. Simmer five minutes; 
. then strain through thin muslin, pressing hard upon the 
almonds. Add this, hot, to the beaten eggs and sugar ; 
put upon the fire, and stir in, with the eggs, the corn-starch 
wet up in cold milk, never taking the spoon out until it 
is thick. Takeoff; flavor, and pour into a wet mould. 
Set in ice, and it will soon form. Eat with sugar anc 
cream. 



THIRD WEEK- SUNDAY. 42$ 

Sunbau. 



Rice Soups 

Stuffed Veal with Garnish of Green Peas. 
Boiled Corn. New Potatoes. 

Bean Salad. 



Orange Snow. 
Iced Tea and Cake. 



RICE SOUP. 

Take the fat from your cold stock, and strain it from 
the meat. Boil up once and skim. Add half a cup of 
rice, and simmer until this is very tender. Add the water 
in which have been soaked two tablespoonfuls of burnt 
sugar, and pour out. 

STUFFED VEAL WITH GARNISH OF GREEN PEAS. 

Take the large bones from a piece of loin of veal ; stuff 
the cavities thus made with a good force-meat of chopped 
pork crumbs and seasoning a few chopped mushrooms 
are an improvement cover the sides with greased sheets 
of thick writing-paper ; put a cupful of soup stock or othei 
gravy in the dripping-pan, and baste well, for one houi 
with butter and water, afterwards with the gravy. Cook 
fully twelve minutes to the pound. Take off the paper 
during the last half hour ; dredge with flour, baste with 
butter, and brown nicely. Take up and keep hot while 
you skim the fat from the*gravy, stir into it half a cupful 
of chopped mushrooms and a little browned flour. Serve 
this having cooked it three minutes in a boat. Have 
ready some green peas, boiled and seasoned, and make a 
fence of them about the veal when dished. 

NEW POTATOES. 
Refer to Thursday, Second Week in July. 

BOILED CORN. 
See Thursday, Fourth Week in June. 



426 JULY. 

BEAN SALAD. 

Cut the beans into inch-lengths, pile in a salad-dish and 
pour upon them such a dressing as you compounded for 
the raw tomatoes on Friday of Second Week in July. 
Garnish with curled lettuce. 

ORANGE SNOW. 

4 large sweet oranges, all the juice, and the grated peel 
of one ; juice and half the grated peel of i lemon ; i 
package of Coxe's gelatine soaked in a cup of cold water ; 
whites of 4 eggs, whipped stiff; i large cup of white 
sugar ; 3 cups of boiling water. 

Mix the juice, and peel of the fruit with the soaked 
gelatine, also the sugar. Leave them covered for one 
hour, then pour on the boiling water and stir clear. 
Strain through flannel, wringing hard. When quite cold, 
whip in the frothed whites very gradually until the mixture 
is a white sponge. Put into a wet mould on Saturday, and 
set on the ice. 

ICED TEA AND CAKE. 

Set the tea aside after breakfast in a pitcher, or bottle, 
which you can keep in ice. When you serve it, half fill 
each glass with ice, put in more sugar than you would use 
for hot tea, and pour on the cold liquid. 



iHoniag. 



Summer Squash, or " Cymbling " Soup. 

Scalloped Veal. Mashed Turnips. 

S.tewed Tomatoes. Potatoes, Boiled Whole. 

Bananas, Oranges, and Cherries. 
Iced Coffee and Fancy Biscuits. 



SUMMER SQUASH, OR CYMBLING SOUP. 

The bones from your cold veal ; 2 Ibs. lean, raw veal, 
chopped fine ; i onion ; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed 
in flour ; i cup of milk, with a pinch of soda ; i tablespoon- 



THIRD WEEK MONDAY. 

ful of white sugar ; 2 beaten eggs ; 2 good- sized white 
squash pared and quartered ; pepper and salt ; fried bread ; 
4 quarts of water. 

Boil bones, meat, and onions in four quarts of water 
until this is reduced to two. Strain, cool, and take off the 
fat. Cook the squash in one pint of the stock until soft 
enough to rub through a colander ; pulp, and put this, with 
its liquor, in the remaining three pints of broth ; also the 
sugar, seasoning, and floured butter, and cook slowly 
without boiling, five minutes. Heat the milk, pour upon 
the eggs, stir over the fire until it begins to thicken. Put 
dice of fried bread into the tureen ; pour on the milk and 
eggs, then the soup, and stir up well. 

SCALLOPED VEAL. 

Chop the cold veal and stuffing ; put a layer into a 
greased bake-dish ; season, and wet with the cold gravy. 
Lay chopped mushrooms upon this ; then bread-crumbs, 
with butter scattered over them. More meat seasoning, 
mushrooms and crumbs should fill the dish, with plenty of 
crumbs, profusely buttered, on top. Wet each layer of 
meat with gravy. Cover the dish, and bake until it bub- 
bles on top. Brown lightly, and send to table in the dish 
in which it was cooked. 

MASHED TURNIPS. 

Peel, slice, and cook soft in boiling salted water. 
Mash in a hot colander, pressing well. Season with salt, 
pepper and butter ; smooth into a heap in a root-dish, 
and put pats of pepper on top. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 
See Wednesday of Second Week in July. 

POTATOES, BOILED WHOLE. 

Peel as thin as possible. Put on in boiling water, a 
little salt, and cook fifteen minutes. Then, pour in a pint 
of cold water. This checks the boil and throws the meal, 
or starch, to the surface, Increase the heat, and boil 
until a fork will pierce the largest. Throw oft" the water ; 
set the pot on the range, and let the moisture evaporate. 



428 JULY. 

Put the potatoes in a deep dish ; pour upon them a few 
spoonfuls of melted butter mixed with chopped parsley, 
and serve. 

BANANAS, ORANGES, AND CHERRIES. 
Put bananas and oranges in one dish ; the cherries, 
bestrewed with cracked ice, in another. 

ICED COFFEE AND FANCY BISCUITS. 
See Monday of Second Week in July. 



fflljtvb tUeclf. 



Bread-and-Cheese Porridge. 

Lamb Chops. 

Puree of Peas and Onion. Lima Beans. 

Moulded Potato. Currant Jelly. 

Currants and Raspberries. 
Unity Cake. 



BREAD-AND CHKESE PORRIDGE. 

2 Ibs. of beef-bones cracked ; 2 Ibs. coarse mutton 
lean and chopped ; i Ib. stale bread-crusts, dried to 
crispness in the oven ; 4 quarts of water ; 4 tablespoon- 
fuls fine grated cheese ; 2 tablespoon fills of butter, rolled 
in flour ; pepper, salt, and chopped parsley ; i onion. 

Put on the bones, meat, and onion in the water, and 
boil three hours. Cool, and take off the fat. Season, 
and re-heat. Put in the crusts ; cook very slowly until 
they are like a jelly. Take them from the fire ; beat in a 
bowl until smooth ; put back into the soup, and simmei 
fifteen minutes. Stir in the butter ; cook five minutes, 
and pour upon the cheese in the tureen. Stir up well. 

LAMB CHOPS. 

Trim very neatly, and broil upon a buttered gridiron 
over a clear fire, turning often. Wind a strip of frilled 
tissue-paper about the bit of bare bone left upon each one. 



THIRD WEEK TUESDAY. 429 

PUR E OF PEAS AND ONION. 

T^ke a cupful of broth from your soup-pot, before 
adding the bread. Cool, and take off the fat, and return 
to the fire with two quarts of green peas and a sliced 
onion. Set the vessel containing it in a saucepan of 
boiling water, and cook, closely covered, until the peas 
begin to break. Put into a bowl ; bruise the peas with a 
potato pestle, and return to the fire with the liquor in 
which they were stewed. Add a little parsley and a lump 
of sugar, with pepper, salt, and butter. Simmer five min- 
utes, and turn out into a deep dish. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Shell, and cook in boiling, salted water twenty-five 
minutes. Drain, season, and serve. 

MOULDED POTATO. 

Mash or rather, beat up lightly with a fork. Work in 
butter and milk, but do not get it too soft. Fill small 
cups wet with cold water with the potato, pack down 
firmly and turn out upon a greased bake- pan. Brown in 
a quick oven until they are of a russet hue ; glazing with 
butter, as they color. Transfer to a flat, hot dish. 

CURRANTS AND RASPBERRIES. 

Slightly mash the currants, leaving as many whole ones 
as you break. Sweeten plentifully, and, just before serv- 
ing, mix with them an equal quantity of red or white 
raspberries, fresh and whole. 

UNITY CAKE. 

Make fresh for the day, according to directions given 
in "BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON, AND TEA," page 333. 



430 JULY. 



ttytrti ffittk. 



Ox-tail Soup. 

Beefsteak with Wine Sauce. Cream Onions. 

Baked Squash. Raw Tomatoes. 

Ambrosia Custard. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 

2 ox-tails ; bunch of thyme and parsley ; i large onion, 
sliced ; 2 grated carrots ; Ib. fat salt pork ; 6 quarts of 
water ; i small onion stuck with six cloves ; browned 
flour; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Slice the pork, and fry. When the fat has covered the 
bottom of the pan, put in the large sliced onion and fry 
to a good brown. Then add the tails, cut at each joint. 
When they have been in five minutes, take them out and 
put into the soup-pot with the fried onion and water. 
Cover and cook slowly two hours. Then put in the car- 
rots, herbs, and clove onion, and stew two hours more. 
Strain, pulping the vegetables ; cool, take off the fat, and 
season the soup. Put over the fire, and when it again 
simmers, stir in the butter melted and rubbed into the 
browned flour to form a paste. Boil up once and it is 
ready. Put the remnants of the tails into a jar, or bowl, 
and add to them half the soup. When cold put on ice 
for to-morrow. 

BEEFSTEAK WITH WINE SAUCE. 

Flatten and broil your steak as usual, but when you 
lay it upon the hot-water dish, have ready this sauce : i 
glass of brown sherry ; i large spoonful of mushroom or 
walnut catsup ; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, rolled in a 
mere dust of flour ; pepper and salt to taste. Heat to 
boiling quickly in a saucepan, and when it has been 
poured upon the steak, cover and let stand a few minutes 
before you serve. 

CREAM ONIONS. 

Boil in two waters. Drain, and if they are large, cut 
into quarters, and pour over them a cup of scalding milk 



THIRD WEEKTHURSDAY. 43* 

in which a pinch of soda has been stirred. Set over the 
fire, add a tablespoonful of butter, half a teaspoonful of 
corn-starch, wet with milk, a little minced parsley, with pep- 
per and salt. Simmer three minutes, and pour out. 

BAKED SQUASH. 
See Friday, First Week in July. 

RAW TOMATOES. 
See Friday, Second Week in July. 

AMBROSIA CUSTARD. 

i quart of milk ; 5 eggs ; 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar for 
custard and 2 for meringue ; i grated cocoanut; bitter 
almond flavoring. 

Heat the milk ; pour upon the sugar beaten up with 
the yolks of all the eggs and the whites of two. Cook, 
stirring all the time, until it begins to thicken. Pour it 
hot upon one-third of the grated cocoanut. Stir up well ; 
flavor, and when cold put into a glass dish. Cover it with 
grated cocoanut, and heap high upon this a meringue 
made of the reserved whites and sugar. 



tUeek. 



Yesterday's Soup. 

Roast Chickens. Stewed Potatoes. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. . Green Corn Pudding. 

Lemon Meringue Pie. 



YESTERDAY'S SOUP. 

Take every particle of fat from the cake of soup jelly 
you will find in your refrigerator ; add a cup of boiling 
water to thin it sufficiently to pour off from the meat ; 
strain it into the soup-pot, boil gently once and skim ; add 
seasoning if you find it needed, also a glass of wine and 
the juice of a lemon, and pour out. 



432 JULY. 

ROAST CHICKENS. 

Clean, wash out in several waters, and stuff with crumbs 
mixed in tepid water, then drained and put over the fire 
in a saucepan with a little hot butter in the bottom. Stir 
the crumbs until hot and almost dry, add chopped parsley, 
salt and pepper ; take it off and beat in two frothed eggs. 
Fill the chickens, sew up the vents, and tie up the necks. 
Cover the breasts with very greasy writing-paper. Put a 
cup of boiling water into the dripping-pan and roast one 
hour, basting freely. Ten minutes before taking up the 
fowls, remove the papers and baste the breasts three 
times with butter while browning. Pour off the fat from 
the gravy ; add the chopped yolks of two eggs, a little 
browned flour, with pepper and salt. Boil up and serve 
in a boat. 

Salt the giblets slightly and keep upon ice for to-mor- 
row's soup. 

STEWED POTATOES. 

Pare and cut in rather large dice. Stew twenty minutes 
in boiling salted water. Pour nearly all of this off and 
put on as much cold milk. Stew ten minutes more ; stir 
in a tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour ; a little minced 
parsley, pepper and salt. Simmer five minutes and pour 
out. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Select enough large, smooth tomatoes to fill a bake- 
dish. Cut a piece from the top of each to serve as a 
cover. Scoop out the pulp, taking care not to injure the 
skin. Chop up a few spoonfuls of the meat from the 
soup ; mix with it a little chopped pork and bread-crumbs. 
Add the tomato pulp, pepper and sugar, and fill the skins. 
Put on the tops, and bake, covered, half an hour. Un- 
cover and brown. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING. 
See Saturday, First Week in July, 

LEMU>N MERINGUE PIE. 

3 e gg s ) I great spoonful of butter ; j- cup 'i>f white 
sugar. Juice and grated peel of i lemon. 



THIRD WEEK FRIDAY. 433 

Cream butter and sugar ; beat in yolks and lemon, and 
fill one large open shell of paste, or two small ones. Beat 
the whites to a stiff meringue, with three tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar, and a little rose-water. When the pies 
are done, draw to the door of the oven, spread quickly 
with this mixture, and shut them in again for three min 
utes. Eat cold. 



l)trb lllttk. Jriban. 

Giblet Soup. 

Halibut a la Royale. Chicken Cutlets. 

Mashed Potatoes. Lettuce Salad. 

Green Peas. 



Coffee Cream. 



GIBLET SOUP. 

Break up the skeletons of your roast chicken. Put 
bones, stuffing, and giblets into a soup-pot with four quarts 
of water. Boil one hour, and take out the giblets. Boil 
the rest an hour more ; strain, cool, and skim. Then put 
back over the fire to simmer. Meanwhile, you should 
have fried an onion sliced in two tablespoonfuls of 
butter ; then taking out the onion, have stirred in a great 
spoonful of browned flour, and cooked it, stirring inces- 
santly five minutes. Now thin this mixture with a few 
spoonfuls of your soup, and strain it into the soup-kettle. 
Lastly, add the chopped giblets ; season well, and pour out. 

HALIBUT A LA ROYALE. 

6 Ibs. of halibut in one piece ; \ cup of bread crumbs ; 
2 tablespoonfuls chopped fat salt pork; 2 teaspoonfuls 
es-st-nce of anchovy ; cup of melted butter ; i cup of boil- 
ing water. Juice of i lemon. Pepper and salt. 

Lay the halibut in salt and water two hours. Wipe it ; 
make incisions on each side of the back-bone, and put in 
a dressing made of bread-crumbs, chopped pork, pepper, 
salt and a little anchovy. Pour into the bottom of a neat 



434 JULY. 

bake-dish the butter, hot water, lemon and anchovy es- 
sence. Lay in the fish ; cover, and bake one hour, bast- 
ing often. Send to table in the dish. 

CHICKEN CUTLETS. 

The meat of your cold fowls chopped very fine ; i cup- 
ful of drawn butter or gravy ; 4 eggs ; cupful of bread- 
crumbs ; pepper and salt ; beaten egg and rolled cracker. 

Put the gravy into a saucepan, and when hot, stir in 
the meat, well seasoned, and the bread-crumbs. As they 
heat, add the beaten eggs, and mix all well together, stir- 
ring constantly for three minutes ; then pour out upon a 
broad dish to cool. When cold and stiff, cut into oblong 
cakes, three inches long by two wide ; dip in egg, then in 
cracker, and fry in hot lard. Drain, and pile upon a flat 
dish, log-cabin-wise, and serve. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Serve with the fish. 

GREEN PEAS. 
See Friday of Second Week in July. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 
See Monday, Second Week in July. 

COFFEE CREAM. 

i quart of rich milk ; i cup of strong, made coffee ; i 
pint of sweet cream, whipped in a syllabub churn ; yolks 
of 3 beaten eggs ; i cup of sugar ; i package of Cooper's 
Gelatine, soaked one hour in a little cold water. 

Scald the milk ; add a pinch of soda ; put in the hot 
coffee, and pour upon the beaten yolks and sugar. Re- 
turn to the fire, and stir until it begins to thicken ; when, 
add the gelatine, and take off. Stir until the gelatine has 
dissolved. When perfectly cold, whip in, by degrees, the 
frothed cream, and put in a wet mould to form. Keep 
upon the ice until wanted. 



THIRD WEEK SATURDAY. 435 



Sljirtr tthtk. 



Julienne Soup. 

Mutton Stew with Peas. Potato Croquettes. 

Boiled Corn, Cucumbers. 

Cream Cake and Chocolate. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 

2 Ibs. of beef, and the same of lean veal ; r Ib. of lean 
ham ; 2 carrots ; 2 turnips ; 2 onions ; I cup of Lima 
beans; 3 tablespoonfuls of butter; sweet herbs; pepper 
and salt ; 6 quarts of water. 

Cut the meat small, and cook with herbs in the water 
four hours. Strain. Put the meat and half of the stock, 
well seasoned, upon the ice. Cool the rest, skim, season, 
and put back into the pot. Prepare your vegetables in the 
following manner : Put the butter into a frying-pan, and 
when hot, fry the onion, sliced, in it ; then, carrots and 
turnips cut into strips less than an inch long. When they 
have cooked five minutes, put them into the soup. Sim- 
mer half an hour ; skim, and put in the beans. Cook 
gently half an hour more, and pour out. 

MUTTON STEW WITH PEAS. 

Take three pounds from the breast, and cut it into 
inch-square pieces. Dredge these with flour, and fry 
brown in good dripping ; add a small, sliced onion, and a 
tablespoonful of chopped herbs. Cover well with cold 
water, put on the saucepan-lid, and stew gently until very 
tender. Take out the meat, and keep hot over boiling 
water ; strain and season the gravy ; put in a quart of 
young peas, and stew slowly until the peas are done. 
Put back the meat, boil up once, and serve. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Mash two cups of potatoes light and smooth ; season 
with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg, and beat in two 
eggs. Put a spoonful of dripping into a frying-pan, arid 



436 JULY. 

when it hisses, stir ih the potato mixture. Keep stirring 
until it is very hot. Spread upon a dish to cool. When 
cold, mould into croquettes ; dip in beaten egg, then in 
rolled cracker, and fry to a fine yellow-brown. Drain 
well, and heap upon a dish. 

BOILED CORN. 
See Thursday, Fourth Week in June. 

RAW CUCUMBERS. 
See Saturday, Second Week in July. 

CREAM-CAKE AND CHOCOLATE. 

2 cups of powdered sugar; J cupful of butter; 4 eggs; 
J cupful of milk ; 3 cups of prepared flour. 

Cream butter and sugar ; add the beaten yolks, the 
milk, finally the frothed whites, alternately with the flour. 
Bake in jelly-cake tins. When cold, spread the following 
mixture between them : 

i cup of milk ; 2 small teaspoonfuls of corn-starch ; i 
egg ; i teaspoonful of vanilla ; cup of sugar. 

Scald the milk ; add the corn-starch, wet with a little 
cold milk ; pour upon the beaten eggs and sugar. Re- 
turn to the fire, and stir until quite thick. Flavor when 
cold. Make a good cup of chocolate, and pass with this 
delicious cake. 



Jburtl) Uhek. Snniag. 

Chicken Soup with Eggs. 

Braised Beef. Stewed Onions. 

Whipped Potatoes. Cream Squash. 

Tomato Salad. 



Claret Jelly and Cake. 



CHICKEN SOUP WITH EGGS. 

i large chicken ; 4 quarts of water ; i cup of milk ; i 
cup of raw rice ; pepper, salt, and chopped parsley ; 6 eggs 



FOURTH WEEK SUNDAY. 437 

Put on the chicken, trussed, but not stuffed, in the 
water with the rice. Boil three hours, or until the bones 
are ready to slip from the meat. Take out the chicken, 
salt it and put by in a cool place for to-morrow. Cool 
and skim the soup ; season it, and rub through a soup- 
sieve back into the pot, rice and all. The rice should be 
boiled to pieces, and pass freely through the sieve. 'Put 
in the parsley, and simmer, while you heat the milk in a 
separate vessel, and poach an egg for each person who is 
to partake of the soup. Trim each egg round when you 
have taken it from the water, and lay carefully upon a flat 
dish. Pour the hot milk into the tureen ; then the soup. 
Stir well, and lay the eggs upon the top, one by one, 
taking pains not to break them. 

BRAISED BEEF. 

Lay a piece of beef-fillet, without bone, weighing five 
or six pounds, in a broad pot. Scatter sliced onion over 
it, salt slightly, and, if you have any good gravy, add this 
to the cupful of boiling water you pour over the meat. 
Cover tightly, and cook slowly an hour and a half, adding 
boiling water should the gravy sink too low. When done, 
dredge with flour, set in a hot oven, and, as the flour 
browns, baste with butter, to glaze. It should not remain 
longer than ten minutes in the oven. Strain the gravy ; 
pour off the top fat : put into a saucepan with a little 
browned flour and a tablespoonful of catsup. Boil until 
thickened ; pour a few spoonfuls over the meat, the rest 
into a boat. 

STEWED ONIONS. 
Cook as on Wednesday, Third Week in July. 



WHIPPED POTATOES. 

Pare, boil, and dry out the potatoes, and whip, first 
into powder, then, adding milk and butter, to a cream ; 
at last, beat in the stiffened white of an egg. Pile roughly 
in a deep dish, and set in the oven to warm up, but not 
to " crust " or brown, and send to table. 



438 JUL Y. 

CREAM SQUASH. 

Pare, quarter, boil in hot, salted water, and mash. Put 
into a saucepan a half-cup of hot milk, a tablespoonful 
of butter rolled in flour, and a little salt and pepper. 
Stir in the squash until well mixed and ready to boil. 
Turn out into a deep dish. 

TOMATO SALAD. 
Refer to Friday, Second Week in July. 

CLARET JELLY AND CAKE. 

i package Coxe's gelatine, soaked in a large cup of 
water ; 2 cups of sugar ; 2 cups fine claret ; i pint of 
boiling water ; the juice of one lemon ; a pinch of mace. 

Put soaked gelatine, sugar, and lemon together, and 
cover for half an hour. Pour on the boiling water ; stir 
until melted, and strain through a flannel bag. Add the 
wine, and strain, without squeezing, through double flan- 
nel. Put in a wet mould, and set in ice. Turn out upon 
a cold glass dish, and pass cake with it. Make it on 
Saturday. 



Jburtl) lUtek. fllcmbaj). 

A Baked Soup. 

Chicken Scallop. Green Peas. 

New Potatoes. Lettuce. 

Huckleberries, Cream, and Cake. 



A BAKED SOUP. 

3 Ibs. of lean mutton, boneless, and cut into strips , i 
carrot ; i turnip ; i onion all cut into dice ; 6 ripe 
tomatoes, sliced thin ; i pint young green peas ; i cup of 
green corn cut from the cob; bunch of sweet herbs, 



FOURTH WEEK MONDAY. 439 

chopped ; 2 quarts of cold water ; pepper and salt ; i 
tablespoonful of sugar ; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, cut 
into bits and rolled in flour. 

Put all these into a stout- stone jar early in the day. 
Fit on a tight top, putting a paste of flour and water over 
the crack between the mouth of the jar and the cover, and 
set within a dripping-pan of boiling water in the oven. 
Do nothing more to it until dinner-time, except to add 
more boiling water as that in the pan evaporates. When 
ready for the soup, pour into the tureen without straining. 

CHICKEN SCALLOP. 

Cut cold boiled chicken into pieces less than an inch 
long. Have ready a cup of yesterday's soup in a sauce- 
pan or some drawn butter and, when hot, stir in the 
meat. Just boil, and pour upon a beaten egg. Cover the 
bottom of a bake-dish with fine crumbs ; pour in the mix- 
ture, rather highly seasoned ; strew with more crumbs ; 
put drops of butter over the surface, and bake, covered, 
half an hour ; then brown quickly. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Shell, and boil in hot salted water from twenty to 
twenty-five minutes, adding a lump of sugar, if they are 
not freshly gathered. Drain well ; dish, and season with 
pepper, salt, and butter. 

NEW POTATOES. 

Scrape off the skins, and cook in boiling salted water, 
until a fork will go in easily. Turn off all the water. 
Set the uncovered pot for a moment upon the range, throw- 
ing in a little fine salt. Then send up in a dish, with a 
napkin thrown lightly over it. 

LETTUCE. 

Do not trouble yourself to-day with making salad-dress- 
ing. Pick apart the lettuce leaves, put into a salad-bowl 
with cracked ice below and among them, and pass the oil, 
pepper, salt, and vinegar with it. 



440 JULY. 

HUCKLEBERRIES, CREAM, AND CAKE. 

Pick over and wash the berries. Drain, and serve in a 
glass dish. Send around sugar and cream with them, and 
follow with the cake-basket. 



Jcrnrtl) ttlcek. 



, Potage aux Croutons. 

Devilled Crab. Corned Beef and Turnips. 

Lima Beans. Beets. 



Plain Boiled Pudding. 

POTAGE AUX CROUTONS. 

3 Ibs. of lean beef; fried bread; i onion, sliced; 3 
quarts of water ; chopped herbs ; i carrot, cut up ; pep- 
per, salt, and i great spoonful of clear catsup walnut or 
mushroom ; dripping. 

Fry meat and vegetables ten minutes in plenty of hot 
dripping. Drain this off, and set by in the pan while you 
put meat, vegetables, and herbs on in the water, and set 
where they will heat slowly to a boil. Prepare the cro&- 
tons by cutting out, with the top of a pepper-box, small 
rounds of stale bread, and frying them in the dripping 
used for the beef, etc. Drain, and set these in an open 
oven, that they may get very dry. Boil the soup three 
hours. Strain ; cool, skim, season ; boil and skim five 
minutes, and put in the croutons. Heat three minutes, 
but do not boil, and pour out. 

DEVILLED CRAB. 

i cup of crab-meat, picked from the shells of well-boiled 
crabs; 2 tablespoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs or rolled 
cracker ; yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, chopped ; juice 
of a lemon ; teaspoonful of made mustard ; a little 
Cayenne pepper and salt ; i cup of good drawn butter. 



FOURTH WEEK TUESDAY. . 441 

Mix one spoonful of the crumbs with the chopped crab- 
meat, yolks, seasoning, and drawn butter. Fill scallop- 
shells large clam-shells will do, or small pate-pans with 
the mixture ; sift crumbs over the top, and heat to slight 
browning in a quick oven. 

CORNED BEEF AND TURNIPS. 

Cook the beef in plenty of cold water, bringing slowly 
to the boil. Cook fifteen minutes to the pound after it 
begins to simmer. When about three-quarters done put 
in a dozen turnips, peeled and quartered. When you 
dish the beef, lay these unmashed about it. Serve the 
meat with drawn butter, having as a base the pot-liquor. 
Save the rest of the liquor for to-morrow's soup. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Shell, and cook in boiling salted water about twenty- 
five minutes. Then drain, pour over them a little drawn 
butter, well peppered, and serve. 

BEETS. 

Be careful, in cutting off the tops and washing them, not 
to break the skins, or they will bleed away their color in 
the water. Cook in boiling water one hour. Scrape ; 
slice ; salt, pepper, and butter, and pour a few spoonfuls 
of boiling vinegar upon them after they are dished. 

PLAIN BOILED PUDDING. 

3 heaping cups of flour ; 2 cups of buttermilk or "lop* 
pered " milk ; \full teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in boil- 
ing water ; cupful of powdered suet ; i teaspoonful of 
salt. 

Stir the sour milk into the flour gradually until it is free 
from lumps. Put in salt and suet ; lastly, beat in the soda 
water quickly and faithfully. Put into a buttered mould, 
and boil an hour and a half. Eat hot with sauce. 
19* 



442 JULY. 

ir.r.. i . : ;> ^Jmnr^ ^;:->m> ylU 

Jourtl) tDeek. it)ebne0bag. 

Butter (or Lima) Bean Soup. 

Breaded Veal Cutlets. Mashed Potatoes 

Succotash. Devilled Tomatoes. 

Baked Huckleberry Pudding. 

BUTTER (OR LIMA) BEAN SOUP. 

The pot-liquor from your beef; i quart of butter (or 
Lima) beans ; ^ cup corn-meal, scalded and left to cool ; 
i onion ; bunch of parsley ; 2 teaspoonfuls essence of 
celery ; 2 beaten eggs ; pepper. 

Take the fat from the pot-liquor and put over the fire 
with the beans, onion, and scalded meal. The latter 
should be soft as thin mush. Stir until this is well mixed 
with the soup, and boil gently, stirring now and then, 
until the beans are broken to pieces. Rub to a puree 
through a colander ; put in pepper and chopped parsley. 
Simmer five minutes, and pour a cupful upon the beaten 
eggs. Stir this back into the soup ; cook one minute, 
without quite boiling, and serve. Pass sliced lemon with it. 

BREADED VEAL CUTLETS. 

Trim and flatten the cutlets ; pepper and salt, and roll 
in beaten egg ; then in pounded cracker. Fry rather 
slowly in good dripping ; turning when the lower side is 
brown. Drain off the fat; squeeze a little lemon-juice 
upon each, and serve in a hot, flat dish 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Mash very soft with butter and milk ; season and heap 
irregularly upon a dish. 

SUCCOTASH. 

6 ears of corn ; i pint of string-beans, trimmed and 
cut into short pieces ; i tablespoonful of butter rolled ic 
flour ; i cup of milk ; pepper and salt. 



FOURTH WEEK WEDNESDAY. 443 

Cut the corn from the cob, bruising as little as possible. 
Put over the fire with the beans in enough hot water, 
salted, to cover them, and stew gently half an hour. 
Turn off nearly all the water, and add a cupful of milk. 
Simmer in this, stirring to prevent burning, twenty min- 
utes ; add the floured butter, the pepper and salt, and 
stew ten minutes. Serve in a deep dish. 

DEVILLED TOMATOES. 

12 fine, firm tomatoes, pared and sliced nearly half *an 
inch thick ; yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs, pounded ; 3 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and same of vinegar ; 2 
raw eggs, beaten light ; i teaspoonful sugar, and half as 
much, each, of made mustard and salt ; a pinch of 
Cayenne. 

Rub butter, pounded yolks, pepper, salt, mustard and 
sugar together. Beat hard, add vinegar, and heat to a 
boil. Put this upon the beaten eggs and whip to a smooth 
cream. Set in hot water while you broil the tomatoes in 
an oyster-broiler, over clear coals. Lay this upon a hot 
chafing-dish, and pour the scalding dressing upon them. 

BAKED HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. 

i pint of milk ; 2 eggs ; i quart of flour (sifted) ; i gill 
yeast ; i saltspoonful of salt ; i teaspoonful of boiling 
water ; nearly a quart of berries, dredged with flour. 

Make a batter of these ingredients leaving out the 
berries and set in a warm place to rise, for about four 
hours. If light then, stir in the dredged berries ; pour 
into a buttered cake-mould, and bake one hour in a mod- 
erate oven. Turn out, and eat with hard sauce. 



444 JULY. 



Jburtl) ttleek. 



Bean and Tomato Soup. 

Fricasseed Chickens. Boiled Onions with Sauce 

Green Pea Cakes. Potatoes a la Lyonnaise. 

Baked Cup Custards. 

BEAN AND TOMATO SOUP. 

Cut up a quart of ripe tomatoes ; season with pepper, 
salt and sugar, and stew until broken to pieces. Rub 
through a colander ; add what was left of yesterday's 
bean soup ; heat together almost to boiling, and pour 
upon dice of fried bread in the tureen. 

FRICASSEED CHICKEN. 

Clean, wash, and cut the fowls into joints. Put a layer 
of fat salt pork in the bottom of a pot ; lay the chicken 
upon this * pepper and salt. Cover with more pork, and 
pour in three tablespoonfuls of hot water mixed with as 
much butter. Finally, drop in a little minced onion. 
Cover tightly, and heat very slowly. After the chickens 
begin to stew, cook steadily one hour, if they are tender. 
If not, increase the time at discretion. When they are 
done, take up and keep hot. Add a little boiling water 
to the gravy ; strain, thicken with browned flour, boil up 
and pour upon the fowls. 

BOILED ONIONS. WITH SAUCE. 

Boil fifteen minutes in hot salted water. Throw this 
off; add a little gravy (made, if you have none ready, 
by boiling a chicken-scrag and feet in a pint of water, 
until there is less than a cupful of broth, then seasoning 
and thickening this), with chopped parsley. Stew five 
minutes longer, or until tender, and dish. 

GREEN PEA CAKES. 
2 cups of boiled green peas, mashed hot with pepper, 



FOURTH WEEK FRIDAY. 445 

salt, and butter ; 2 beaten eggs ; i cup of milk ; cup 
of prepared flour. 

Mix and beat hard. Fry as you would griddle- cakes. 

POTATOES 1 LA LYONNAISE. 

Chop cold parboiled potatoes into coarse dice. Put 
some butter in a frying-pan, and, when hot, throw in a ta- 
blespoonful of chopped onion and a little parsley. Cook 
one minute ; add the potatoes, and stir until very hot and 
glazed with the butter, but not until colored. Serve hot. 

BAKED CUP CUSTARDS. 

i quart of milk ; 5 eggs ; i cup of sugar ; lemon flavor- 
ing for custard, and lemon-juice for the meringue. 

Heat the milk, add all but two tablespoonfuls of sugar 
to the beaten yolks of all the eggs and the whites of two, 
and pour the scalding milk upon them, mixing in well. 
Fill buttered stone-china cups with this custard ; set in a 
dripping-pan of hot water, and bake until " set." Then 
pile upon them roughly a meringue made of the reserved 
whites, whipped stiff with the rest of the powdered sugar 
and. the lemon-juice. Shut the oven until these begin to 
be tinged. Eat cold from the cups. 



-fotirtl) tDetk. 



Corn Soup, 

Mayonnaise of Lobster. Beefsteak au Maitre d'Hdtel. 

Stewed Lima Beans. Fried Cucumbers. 

Boiled Potatoes. 

Blackberry Pie. 
Iced Tea. 

CORN SOUP. 

i pint of grated corn just from the cob ; 3 pints of 
boiling water j i pint of hot milk ; 3 tablespoonfuls of 



446 JULY. 

butter ; i heaping tablespoonful of flour ; pepper ; salt ; 
yolks of 2 eggs. 

Put on the cobs, after you have grated off the corn, in 
the boiling water, and cook half an hour. Take them out 
and put in the corn. Boil one hour or until very soft. 
Pulp through the colander back into the water. Season, 
and set over the fire to simmer. Put the butter into a 
saucepan, and, when hot, stir in the flour. Cook ten 
minutes, stirring all the while. Add a little of the soup 
to thin it, and empty the saucepan into the soup-pot, stir- 
ring the contents until smooth. Heat the milk in another 
saucepan, pour upon the beaten yolks, cook one minute, 
and pour into the tureen. Season with pepper and salt, 
and stir the soup into it. This is a remarkably nice soup. 



MAYONNAISE OF LOBSTER. 

Meat of one large boiled lobster, cold and cut into 
dice. Lay aside the coral for the dressing. Make this 
of these ingredients : 4 hard boiled eggs ; 2 tablespoon- 
fuls best salad-oil ; i teaspoonful, each, of made mustard, 
salt, white sugar, and anchovy sauce ; vinegar and cayenne 
to taste. 

Pound the yolks perfectly smooth, and rub in the coral 
and other ingredients with great care, moistening with 
vinegar as they stiffen, until a smooth cream is the result. 
Pour this over the minced lobster, and toss up well with 
a silver fork. Heap in the centre of your salad-bowl, and 
lay cool, white lettuce-hearts around it, helping out these 
with the lobster. Inside of the lettuce lay a chain of the 
sliced boiled whites. 



BEEFSTEAK AU MA!TRE D' HOTEL. 

Broil your beefsteak in the usual manner. Lay upon 
the chafing-dish and pour upon it a sauce made of i great 
spoonful of butter ; i teaspoonful very finely minced pars- 
ley ; pepper, salt and the juice of a lemon heated almost 
to boiling in a clean saucepan. Put a hot cover over the 
steak, and let it stand five minutes before serving. 



FOURTH WEEK SATURDAY. 447 

STEWED LIMA BEANS. 

Boil in hot salted water fifteen minutes. Drain half of 
this off and stir in for a quart of beans a tablespoonful 
of very finely chopped sweet salt pork the whitest fat 
slice you can get a teaspoonful of minced onion, a little 
chopped parsley : pepper and a cupful of hot milk, with' a 
pinch of soda stirred in to prevent curdling. Stew slowly 
fifteen minutes more ; stir in a scant tablespoonful of butter 
rolled in flour ; cook ten minutes and pour out. 

FRIED CUCUMBERS. 
See Wednesday, First Week in July. 

BOILED POTATOES. 
See Monday of this wejk. 

BLACKBERRY PIE. 

Line a pie-dish with good crust, and fill with ripe berries, 
sweetening plentifully. Cover with another crust and 
bake in a moderate oven. Eat cold with white sugar 
sifted over it. 

ICED TEA. 

See Sunday, Third Week in July. 



JFottrtl) tihek. 



Kilkenny Soup. 

Mutton Chops. Ragout of Vegetables. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Indian Pudding. 

KILKENNY SOUP. 

3 Ibs. of lean beef; 2 Ibs. scrag of mutton, cut up 
small ; I Ib. lean ham ; 3 sliced onions ; 3 carrots ; 2 tur- 



448 JULY. 

nips ; bunch of sweet herbs ; of a cup of Irish oatmeal; 
previously soaked four hours in a little tepid water ; 6 
quarts of cold water ; pepper and salt ; 6 parboiled pota- 
toes, sliced. 

Crack the bones, and cut the meat into strips. Cover 
with the water, and bring slowly to the boil. When this 
has lasted one hour, skim off the top of the pot, and put 
in the onions fried brown in dripping, the other vegeta- 
bles sliced, and the herbs; cook three hours longer, and 
strain the soup. Season the meat pretty highly and pour 
upon it in a jar or bowl half the clear stock. Set upon 
the ice for Sunday, when cold. Rub the vegetables 
through the colander into the rest of the stock : cool, 
take off the fat, season, add the sliced potatoes and the 
oatmeal, and cook one hour more. Strain into the tureen. 

MUTTON CHOPS. 

Trim, leaving a bit of bare bone at the end of each. 
Pepper, and broil over a clear fire. Lay upon a hot dish ; 
salt and butter both sides of each chop, and lay outside 
of your stewed tomatoes. 

RAGOUT OF VEGETABLES. 

Parboil i carrot, i turnip, 2 potatoes, 2 ears of corn, i 
cup of Lima beans, and the same of peas, i onion, and 
with them Ib. of fat salt pork. Drain off the water, and 
lay aside the pork. Slice carrots, turnips, potatoes and 
onion. Put into a saucepan with a cup of your soup 
taken out before thickening ; season well ; cut the corn 
from the cob. and add with the peas, beans, and a sliced 
tomato as soon as the rest are hot. Stew all together 
half an hour. Stir in a great lump of butter rolled in 
flour ; stew five minutes and pour into a deep dish. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Loosen the skins with hot water, peel and slice. Stew 
until broken to p:eces. .Pulp through a coarse sieve, rub- 
bing out all that will pass. Return to the fire with a little 
sugar, pepper and salt, and boil briskly fifteen minutes. 



FOURTH WEEK SATURDAY. 449 

Stir in, then, enough fine crumbs to make it like a toler- 
ably thick batter ; add a great spoonful of butter ; stew, 
stirring well, five minutes ; pour in the middle of a flat 
dish, and arrange the chops around it. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

i quart of milk ; 4 cups white Indian meal ; 3 eggs ; 
4 tablespoonfuls of sugar ; i teaspoonful of salt ; Ib. 
powdered suet i teaspoonful of cinnamon ; teaspoon- 
mi of soda in the milk. 

Scald the milk, and, while hot, stir in meal, suet, and salt. 
When cold, beat in the yolks and sugar, the spice at last 
the whites. Beat long and hard ; pour into a buttered 
mould, leaving room for swelling and plenty of it put 
into a pot of boiling water almost up to the top, and boil 
four hours. Turn out, and eat hot with sauce. 



45 AUGUST. 



AUGUST. 
Smt 



Macaroni Soup. 

Stewed Ducks. Green Peas. 

Boiled Corn. Fried Egg-plant, 

Potato Salad. 

Almond Custard with Cocoanut Frost. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

Take the fat from your cold soup ; pour the latter care- 
fully from the meat, and heat to a slow boil. Having re- 
moved all the scum that will rise, add a quarter pound of 
macaroni, broken into short pieces, boiled twenty minutes 
in hot salted water, and left to get cold. Simmer fifteen 
minutes, and serve. 

STEWED DUCKS. 

Clean, wash, and truss neatly, but do not stuff the 
ducks. Put into a broad saucepan, such as is generally 
known as a braising-pan. Strew with a little onion ; pour 
over them a cupful of weak broth made by boiling the gib- 
lets in a pint of water and reducing one-half. Season this 
well, and when you have poured it upon the ducks, cover 
the saucepan and cook gently an hour and a half or until 
the ducks are tender. Turn them when half done. Take 
up when ready ; keep hot while you strain and thicken 
the gravy with browned flour. Pour a little over the 

ducks, the rest into a boat. 



GREEN PEAS. 
See Monday, Fourth Week in July. 



FIKST WEEK SUNDAY. 451 

BOILED CORN. 

Strip off all except the inner thin husk. Turn this 
down, and pick off the silk. Put back the husk, tie with 
a bit of thread, and cook in boiling water from twenty-five 
to thirty minutes. Break off the stalks and husks, and 
send to table wrapped in a napkin. 

FRIED EGG-PLANT. 

Cut in slices half an inch thick ; pare each carefully, 
and lay for one hour in salt and water, to remove the bit- 
ter taste. Then slightly salt and pepper each piece, and 
dip in a batter made of two eggs, half a cup of milk, and 
about a cup of flour, or enough for thin batter. Fry in 
hot lard or dripping to a fine brown ; drain well, and 
serve hot. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Slice six or eight cold boiled potatoes ; put them into 
a salad-dish, and season as follows : To two tablespoon- 
fuls of salad-oil add one teaspoonful of sugar, half as much, 
each, of made mustard, salt, and pepper, and nearly as 
much essence of celery. Rub to a smooth paste, and 
whip in, a teaspoonful at a time, five tablespoonfuls of vin 
egar. When well mixed, pour upon the salad. 

ALMOND CUSTARD, WITH COCOANUT FROST. 

2 caps fresh milk, with a pinch of soda stirred in ; Ib. 
almonds, blanched, dried, and pounded ; 3 beaten eggs ; 
J cup powdered sugar ; rose-water ; i cocoanut, pared, 
thrown into cold water, and grated. 

Scald the milk ; stir in the almond-paste, which should 
have been mixed with rose-water, to prevent oiling. 
Boil one minute, and pour upon the beaten eggs and 
sugar. Return to the fire, and stir until the mixture be- 
gins to thicken. Take oft", and pour into a bowl. When 
cold, put on ice until Sunday. Then turn the custard 
into a glass dish, and heap high with the grated cocoanut 
Strew powdered sugar over all. 



452 AUGUST. 



first ilUek. fttonbag. 

Clam Soup. 

Ragout of Duck and Green Peas. Onions, 

Potatoes, with Cheese Sauce. Raw Tomatoes. 

Blackberries, Huckleberries, and Cream. 
Sliced Cake. 

CLAM SOUP. 

50 clams ; i quart of hot water ; 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter ; i tablespoonful of flour ; i teaspoonful chopped 
onion, and same of mixed thyme and parsley ; 2 cups of 
hot milk ; salt anc 1 cayenne ; 2 blades of mace. 

Cut the hard parts off from the cldms, putting the soft 
halves on ice. Strain off all the liquor, and put with the 
hard bits over the fire, with a quart of hot water, the 
onion, herbs, and mace. Simmer forty minutes. Heat 
the milk in another vessel not forgetting the pinch of 
soda ; stir in the butter, cut up in the rlour, and set in 
hot water until the soup is ready. At the end of the 
forty minutes, strain the clam broth, leaving out the hard 
parts. Put in the soft, season with salt and cayenne, and 
let them just boil. Pour into the tureen, add the milk 
and butter, and set the tureen in hot water five minutes 
before serving. 

RAGOUT OF DUCK AND GREEN PEAS. 

Cut the meat from the carcasses left since yesterday, 
making the slices as neat as you can. If you have not a 
large cupful of gravy left, make it by stewing down the 
bones and stuffing in a quart of water, cooling, skimming, 
and seasoning it. Put this in a saucepan with the pieces 
of duck, and set where it will get very hot, but not boil. 
Cook a quart of tender green peas in boiling water 
twenty minutes ; drain, and season them with pepper, 
salt, and butter. Take out the duck and pile in the ceil- 
tre of a dish ; put the peas around it like a green hedge, 



FIRST WEEK MONDAY. 453 

Boil up the gravy once when you have stirred in a little 
browned flour, wet with cold water, and pour upon the 
meat. 

ONIONS. 

Boil in two waters, and after draining off the last, cover, 
barely, with boiling milk ; stir in a good piece of butter 
rolled in flour ; season with salt and pepper ; boil once, 
and pour into a deep dish. 

POTATOES, WITH CHEESE SAUCE. 

12 boiled potatoes, mashed soft with milk and butter ; 
4 tablespoonfuls of dry, grated cheese ; i cup of rich 
drawn butter; 2 beaten eggs ;. pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; 
triangles of fried bread ; cracker-dust. 

Stir into the hot drawn butter the pe^pper, salt, nutmeg, 
beaten eggs, and half the cheese, and heat, stirring con- 
stantly, until it thickens. Put a layer of potato upon a flat 
stone-china dish or a block-tin one round it to suit the 
shape of the dish, and cover with the sauce ; this, in turn, 
with a narrowing round of potatoes, but of equal thickness, 
and this with sauce, and so on, until you have a mound 
rounded on, top. Coat with sauce, then with the rest of 
the cheese and some pounded cracker. Lay the sippets 
of fried bread up against it at the base, and heat to brown- 
ing in a quick oven. 

BLACKBERRIES, HUCKLEBERRIES, AND CREAM. 
CAKE. 

Put the blackberries in a dish of their own. Some per- 
sons like them with cream, but more prefer to eat them 
simply strewed with sugar. Wash the huckleberries, and 
pass cream and sugar with them ; then a basket of simple 

cake. 



454 AUGUST. 



Jirst 111 ttk. 



A Summer Soup. 

Veal Collops. Tomato Sauce, 

Raw Cucumbers. String Beans. 

Apple Compote au Gratin. 

A SUMMER SOUP. 

3 Ibs. coarse, lean beef, cut into strips ; i Ib. ham or 
salt-pork bones ; 4 quarts of water ; 2 carrots ; 2 turnips ; 
12 very small and young onions, minus the stalks ; i cup 
of strained tomato sauce ; i cup of green peas ; % cup of 
green corn, cut frem the cob ; pepper and salt. 

Cook the beef and bones in the water down to two 
quarts of liquid. Strain, cool, and skim. Meanwhile 
cut carrots and turnips into neat dice or strips, and par- 
boil with the onions five minutes in boili-ng water. Return 
your skimmed and seasoned stock to the fire, and when 
almost on the boil, put in the parboiled and drained vege- 
tables, with peas and corn. Simmer half an hour, add the 
tomato sauce, and cook ten minutes more, then pour out. 

VEAL COLLOPS. 

3 Ibs. of lean veal, cut into square bits, two inches across, 
and more than half an inch thick ; Ib. fat salt pork, cut 
into lardoons ; i cup of gravy taken from your soup be- 
fore adding the vegetables ; i cup of drawn butter ; yolks 
of 2 eggs ; juice of half a lemon ; pepper, salt, nutmeg, 
and a pinch of mace. 

Lard the veal with the pork, and lay in a pan of boiling 
water three minutes. Have ready a cup of gravy seasoned 
with nutmeg, pepper, salt, and lemon-peel. Put in the 
meal, and simmer half an hour very gently. Beat the 
yolks into the drawn butter ; stir in the lemon-juice ; add 
to the contents of the saucepan, and stir, carefully, not to 
break the lardoons, five minutes. Heap the collops into 
a block upon a dish, and pour on the gravy. 



FIRST WEEK WEDNESDAY. 455 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Peel, slice, and stew twenty minutes ; then season with 
pepper, salt, butter rolled in flour, and sugar. Simmer 
five minutes, and pour out. 

STRING-BEANS. 

Cut off the ends \ " string " well, paring both sides with 
a keen knife ; cut into short pieces, and cook in boiling 
salt water forty minutes. Drain ; salt, pepper, and stir 
in a tablespoonful of butter, heated with a teaspoonful of 
vinegar. 

RAW CUCUMBERS. 

Pare, lay in ice-water one hour ; slice, and mix with 
pounded ice, in a glass bowl. Pass vinegar, salt, pepper, 
and oil with them. 

APPLE COMPOTE AU GRATIN. 



Make a quart of good apple sauce ; rubbing it very 
smooth, and beating in, while hot, sugar to make it quite 
sweet, nutmeg, and a great spoonful of butter. Make a 
heap of it (it should be rather stiff when cold) upon a 
deep plate, or pie-dish. Wash all over with beaten egg, 
and sift rolled cracker thickly upon it. Bake half an 
hour, and eat hot with butter and sugar. 



Jirst UJttlf. illebuesirag. 

Beef Noodle Soup. 

Boiled Chickens and Tongue. Fried Egg-plant. 

Lima Beans. Potato Puffs. 

Peaches and Cream. 

BEEF NOODLE SOUP. 

First to borrow an idea from worthy Mrs. Glass make 
the noodles. 



456 AUGUST. 

Take 4 eggs, beaten one minute ; 3 tablespoonfuls of 
water ; enough flour (prepared) for stiff dough, and a 
saltspoonful of salt. Make up, and knead fifteen minutes. 
Roll into a thin sheet, and cut half of it into long strips, 
less than half an inch wide, and these, again, across at in- 
tervals of four inches. Now, roll the other half of the 
sheet up very closely, making a long scroll like a quill. 
Cut this across, with a keen knife, into little wheels less 
than a quarter of an inch wide. Lay all in a sunny win- 
dow to dry. Those intended for to-day will be fit to use 
in two hours. The rest will keep in a dry, cool place 
several days, and can be used as a vegetable, or in soups. 

Make a stock of 2 Ibs. of beef bones, the same of mut- 
ton bones and a slice of lean ham boiled in three quarts 
of water, with i onion, i carrot, and a bunch of herbs 
chopped. Boil down to two quarts, strain ; cool, skim 
and season, and put in a good handful of the noodles a 
few at a time so soon as it boils. Simmer twenty minutes. 

BOILED CHICKENS AND TONGUE. 

Clean, wash, and truss the chickens ; bind legs and 
wings down closely by tying up the fowls in white, per- 
fectly clean bobbinet lace, or mosquito net. Put on in 
plenty of boiling salted water and cook one hour, unless 
they are large and tough. In that case cook very slowly 
and long. Have ready a tongue, which has soaked sev- 
eral hours in warm water boiled, skimmed, and trimmed. 
Lay upon a dish with a chicken on each side. Pour a 
few spoonfuls of melted butter, heated, with a little 
chopped parsley, over all three ; set in a quick oven 
three minutes : anoint again with the butter and parsley, 
and send to table upon a hot, clean dish. ^Pass a boat of 
drawn butter with them. Save the chicken liquor, well 
seasoned, for to morrow's soup, also the water in which the 
tongue was boiled. If it is a smoked tongue, you can use 
the fat from the top for dripping. If corned, the liquoi 
can be added to soups and gravies. 

FRIED EGG-PLANT. 
Please refer to Sunday of this week 



FIRST WEEK THURSDAY. 457 

LIMA BEANS. 

Shell and cook in boiling salted water about thirty min 
utes. Drain, dish, and stir in salt, pepper, and a good 
lump of butter. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

6 boiled potatoes, mashed soft, with a tablespoon ful 
of milk, and as much butter ; 3 beaten eggs ; 6 table- 
spoonfuls of prepared flour, or enough to enable you to 
make into soft dough. Make into balls like doughnuts ; 
roll these in flour, and fry to a fine brown in hot lard. 

PEACHES AND CREAM. 

Pare and slice the peaches just before dinner, and cover 
the glass dish containing them to exclude the air as much 
as may be, since they soon change color. Do not sugar 
them in the dish. They then become preserves not 
fresh fruit. Pass " fruit sugar" and cream with them. 



;ftr0t 

Chickens and Corn Soup. 

Game Mutton. Green Peas. 

Beets. Mashed Potatoes. 



Huckleberry Shortcake. 



CHICKEN AND CORN SOUP. 

The pot-liquor from yesterday's chickens; 12 ears of 
corn, grated from the cob ; i cup of milk ; i tablespoon- 
ful of butter, rolled in flour ; pepper, salt, and parsley. 

Take the fat from the top of your liquor, and save in the 
dripping-pot. Heat the broth to a boil ; put in the cobs 
from which the corn has been cut, and cook half an hour. 
Strain the soup ; put again over the fire and put in the 
ml corn. N. B. It is well to split each row of grains 



AUGUST. 

before cutting them off. Cook forty minutes, stir in but- 
ter and flour, with the parsley. Simmer five minutes, and 
serve. 

GAME MUTTON. 

Cut away the under-side of a nice leg of mutton, to 
make it as tlat as may be without exposing the bone. 
Put the pieces thus trimmed off over the fire, with a quart 
of water, and stew down one-half. Cool, skim, season, 
and re-heat. Meantime, lard the upper side of the meat 
with slender lardoons. . If you have not a larding-needle 
which is a pity use a long-bladed jack-knife to make 
diagonal incisions in the mutton ; then thrust in the lar- 
doons with your fingers, bringing both ends to the surface. 
Now rub the meat all over with hot butter and vinegar, 
letting the surplus trickle into the dripping-pan. Pour 
the boiling pint of gravy over the leg, and roast twelve 
minutes to the pound, basting every ten minutes, copi- 
ously. Just before taking it up, pour off the fat from the 
gravy ; dip up a few spoonfuls of the brown juice, and, 
mixing with as much currant jelly, beat in a little browned 
flour, wet up with cold water. Baste the. meat with this 
until a fine brown glaze covers it. Serve the gravy, well 
skimmed, in a boat. This is a delightful dish. Carve 
judiciously, so as to leave a seemly joint cold for to-mor- 
row. 

GREEN PEAS. 
See Sunday of this week. 

BEETS. 
See Tuesday, Fourth Week in July. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Prepare as usual, and serve without browning. 

HUCKLEBERRY SHORTCAKE. 
Please see Wednesday, Second Week in June, 



FIRST WEEK FRIDAY. 459 



Jtr0t tlhek. Jriiratj. 

Sister Anne's Soup. 

Boiled Bass. Cold Mutton. 

Boiled Potatoes. Tomato Salad. 

Green Corn Pudding. 

Apple Custard Pie. 

SISTER ANNE'S SOUP. 

12 potatoes, pared a-nd quartered; i onion, sliced; 
tablespoonful of minced parsley ; i cup of unskimmed 
milk (cream is still better) ; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter ; 
i tablespoonful vf corn-starch, wet with cold milk ; i tea- 
spoonful of sugar ; 2 quarts of boiling water ; pinch of 
soda in the milk. 

Parboil the potatoes ten minutes ; throw off the water,* 
and put on two quarts of boiling water. -Cook in this 
one hour with the onion, replenishing from the kettle as 
it boils away. Then rub through a fine colander, season 
with pepper, salt, and parsley, and re-heat When it bub- 
bles up, stir in the butter and corn-starch ; boil up, add 
the hot milk, and serve. 

BOILED BASS. 

Put enough water in . the pot for the fish to swim in, 
easily. Add half a cup of vinegar, a teaspoonful of salt, 
an onion, a dozen black peppers, and a blade of mace. 
Sew up the fish in a piece of clean net, fitted to its shape. 
Heat slowly for the first half hour, then boil eight min- 
utes, at least, to the pound, quite fast. Unwrap, and 
pour over it a cup of drawn butter, based upon the liquor 
in which the fish was boiled, with the juice of half a lemon 
stirred into it. Garnish with sliced lemon. 

COLD MUTTON. 

Put on the larded joint, cold, garnished with nasturtium 
flowers and curled parsley. 



460 AUGUST. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Pass with the fish. Please see Monday of Fourth 
Week in July. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Peel with a sharp knife. Slice, arrange in a salad-dish, 
and pour over it a dressing such as you made for potato 
salad on Sunday of this week. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING. 

12 ears of sweet corn, each row of grains split length- 
wise, then cut close to the cob ; 4 eggs ; 2 cups of milk ; 
I tablespoonful of sugar, rubbed up with one of butter ; 
j[ teaspoonful of salt ; 2 tablespoonfnls of flour. 

Mix as you would a rice pudding, and bake one hour in 
A buttered dish. Serve in the bake-dish, hot. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

* Make a very sweet apple sauce t in which not a lump 
remains. To each cupful add two eggs beaten light and 
half a cupful of perfectly fresh milk. Have ready some 
paste-shells in pie-plates, fill with the custard and bake at 
once without an upper crust. 



Sivsi Dttk. Satttvbag. 

Pot au Feu. 

Ham and Eggs. Casserole of Potato. 

String-Beans. Cream Squash. 



Jelly Omelette. 

POT AU FEU. 

5 Ibs. of brisket of beef bones cracked, and meat 
sliced ; the broken bones of your cold mutton, after you 
have sliced off the meat ; 2 grated carrots ; 2 grated tur- 



FIRST WEEK SATURDAY. 

nips ; i large fried onion ; bunch of sweet herbs ; I 
whole carrot ; i whole turnip, cut into dice ; i very small 
cauliflower, the bunches clipped apart ; 6 quarts of water ; 
pepper and salt. 

Put on the meat, bones, onion, grated vegetables and 
herbs in the soup-pot with the water ; cover closely and 
cook slowly five hours. Then strain ; take out the meat 
and set aside with half the stock, well seasoned, for Sun- 
day. Put on the ice when cold. Cool and skim the 
rest ; season ; put oack in the pot with a parboiled tur- 
nip, carrot, and cauliflower, the latter clipped into small 
clusters ; the others cut into dice.^ Simmer half an hour, 
and serve. 

BROILED HAM AND EGGS. 

Cut slices of cooked ham of equal size ; broil upon a 
gridiron over a clear fire. Lay upon a hot dish ; pepper, 
and spread each slice with a mixture of melted butter and 
a very little made mustard. Lay on each a poached egg, 
trimmed neatly. 

CASSEROLE OF POTATO. 

Mash eight or ten potatoes smooth with butter, salt, 
and work in the beaten whites of two eggs. Then fill a 
greased jelly-mould with it, pressing down firmly. Set 
aside to harden. When cold, scoop out about a teacup- 
ful, or less, from the middle, leaving firm, thick walls. 
Fill the cavity with a mince of cold mutton, highly 
seasoned, mixed with crumbs and moistened with gravy, 
and not too soft. Fit a piece of fried bread in the mouth 
of the filled cavity ; turn out the casserole carefully upon 
a stone-china or block-tin dish ; wash all over with beaten 
egg and set in a hot oven ten minutes to heat and glaze. 
The mince should be very hot when it goes in and stiff 
enough to keep its shape. 

STRING-BEANS. 
See Tuesday of this week. 

CREAM SQUASH. 

Boil and mash as usual ; then return to the saucepan 
with half a cup of milk to a quart of mashed squash \ 



462 AUGUST. 

and when this simmers, stir in a tablespoonful of butter 
rolled in flour ; pepper and salt to taste. Stir three min- 
utes and pour out. 

JELLY OMELETTE. 

Beat six eggs light yolks and whites separately ; then 
mix them and stir in lightly a tablespoonful of powdered 
sugar. Put a tablespoonful of butter into a frying-pan , 
and, when it boils, pour in the omelette. Lift at the 
edges and bottom with your spatula, as it cooks, and 
when " set " in the middle, put on one side of it a fe.w 
spoonfuls of fruit-jelly ; fold over, and turn out upon a 
hot dish. Strew po\vdered sugar over it. 



Second tlleek. Suntrag. 

Noodle Soup. 

Braised Chicken. Green Corn Sauta, 

Fried Egg-plant. Baked Tomatoes. 

Ice Cream and Cake. 

NOODLE SOUP. 

Take the fat from the top of your cold stock ; put the 
latter in a soup-pot ; heat to a gentle boil. Strain through 
thin muslin ; set again over the fire ; boil and skim one 
minute ; add nearly a cupful of dried noodles and simmer 
twenty minutes. If you have no noodles made, break a 
handful of vermicelli small, and cook the same length of 
time. 

BRAISED CHICKEN. 

Clean, wash, and stuff a pair of fowls. Lay slices of 
fat salt pork in a broad saucepan, and upon these the 
chickens with thin slices of pork tied over their breasts. 
Put two cupfuls of hot water in the pan, cover very 
securely and cook slowly an hour and a half longer 
should the chickens be tough and this is a good way to 



SECOND WEEK SUNDAY. 

cook such. At the end of that time remove the chicken 
to the hot-water dish ; cover to keep hot ; strain the 
gravy and return half to a small saucepan. Add a little 
browned flour wet with cold water, and boil fast to a 
bright brown glaze. Put the fowls in a quick oven ; take 
off the pork ; brush all over with the glaze, and when 
brown, serve. Take the fat from the reserved gravy, add 
the water in which the giblets were boiled ; the chopped 
giblets themselves, and a little browned flour, also pep- 
per. Boil up and serve in a boat. 

FRIED EGG-PLANT. 
Please see Sunday of First Week in- August. 

GREEN CORN SAUTE". 

Boil ; then cut from' the cob ; have ready in a sauce- 
pan a little butter, seasoned with salt and pepper. Stir 
in the corn and shake and toss until hot and glazed with 
the butter. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Pare with a sharp knife ; cut in thick slices. Put a 
layer of crumbs in the bottom of a bake-dish ; wet them 
with a little of your soup-stock, or other gravy ; cover 
with tomatoes, seasoned with butter, salt, pepper and 
sugar, more crumbs moistened with gravy, and so on, to 
the top of the dish, having well-moistened crumbs for the 
last layer. Cover, and bake half an hour ; then uncover 
and brown quickly. Serve in the bake-dish. 

ICE CREAM AND CAKE. 

For directions, too full and explicit to need repetition; 
please see Sunday, Second Week in July. * 



AUGUST. 



Seionfo tUeek. ittonbag. 

A Monday Soup. 

Scallop with Baked Eggs. Mashed Potatoes. 

Green Peas. Raw Cucumbers. 



Huckleberry Cake and Iced Coffee. 

A MONDAY SOUP. 

Strip all the meat from your chicken-bones, and set in 
a cool place, while you break the skeletons to pieces, and 
put in a soup-pot at the back of the range, with the dress- 
ing, skin, and gristly bits. Pour on three quarts of water 
and leave it to simmer always covered for three hours. 
Strain, rubbing the stuffing through the colander ; cool 
and skim ; return to the fire with a cupful of yesterday's 
soup (there is always a little left over, if it is only saved 
from the swill-pail), also strained. Have ready six Boston 
crackers split and dried in the oven for half an hour, but 
not scorched. Butter these ; lay in the heated tureen ; 
pour upon them two cups of boiling milk, and let soak, 
covered, while you salt and pepper your soup, and add 
a little minced parsley. Should there not be dressing 
enough to thicken it well, stir in a little corn-starch, wet 
with milk. Boil up, and pour upon the crackers. This 
soup need not consume fifteen minutes of your time, and 
is very savory. 

SCALLOP AND BAKED EGGS. 

Mince your chicken, but not small ; cover the bottom 
of a pudding-dish with fine crumbs ; put in the chicken, 
wet with gravy and seasoned to taste ; strew a good coat- 
ing of crumbs on top, and this with butter-bits. Set, cov- 
ered, in the oven. When the gravy bubbles to the surface 
remove the lid and break upon the scallop enough eggs to 
cover 'it well. Pepper and salt ; lay a piece of butter on 
each, and bake until well " set." 



SECOND WEEK MONDAY. 465 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Boil, mash, and whip to a cream with a fork, mixing in 
butter, milk, salt and a dust of pepper, as you go on. 
Serve in a deep dish. 

GREEN PEAS. 
See Sunday of First Week in August. 

RAW CUCUMBERS. 

Pare ; lay in ice- water one hour ; slice and pile upon 
pounded ice in a glass dish, sending around condiments 
with them. 

HUCKLEBERRY CAKE. 

This cake should have been made on Saturday. It 
keeps well, and is much better the second day than the 
first. 

5 e gg s > 3 CU P S f powdered sugar ; i cup of butter ; i 
cup of sweet milk ; 4 cups of prepared flour ; i teaspoon- 
ful mixed nutmeg and cinnamon ; 2 cups of huckleber- 
ries dredged with flour ; teaspoonful of soda stirred in 
boiling water and mixed with the milk. 

Cream butter and sugar; add the beaten yolks, the 
milk, the flour, alternately, with the whipped whites, and, 
lastly, the dredged berries. Bake in small loaves, or in 
patty-pans, in a moderate oven, covering as it begins to 
brown. It takes a longer time to bake than plain cake. 

ICED COFFEE. 

Make more coffee than needed for breakfast. Set by 
three or four cups of strong coffee, adding nearly one- 
third as much boiled milk, while both are hot. Set in ice, 
and, in seiving, put a lump of ice in each glass. 
ao* 



466 AUGUST. 

Sucsiratt. 



Tapioca Soup. 

Beefsteak. Tomatoes and Corn, Stewed. 

Potatoes in Jackets. Mashed Squash. 

Peaches and Cream. 



TAPIOCA SOUP. 

2 Ibs. lean veal ; 2 Ibs. beef-bones, cracked ; i slice of 
corned ham ; i carrot ; bun'ch of herbs ; i onion ; 8 large 
tomatoes ; i tablespoonful of sugar ; pepper and salt : 
J cup granulated tapioca, previously soaked two hours in 
a little cold water ; 3 quarts of water. 

Slice the meat and vegetables, and put on leaving out 
the tomatoes in the water, to boil slowly four hours. 
At the end of the second hour, skim well, and add the 
tomatoes. When the time is up, strain the soup, take out 
the meat, and rub the vegetables through the colander. 
Cool and skim ; season with sugar, pepper, salt, and 
minced herbs, and heat up anew. When it boils, add the 
tapioca ; stir clear, and serve. 

BEEFSTEAK. 

Flatten with the broad side of a hatchet, and broil upon 
a buttered gridiron over a clear fire. Lay upon a hot 
dish, pepper, salt, and put a bountiful spoonful of butter, 
cut into bits, upon it. Cover with a hot dish or lid for 
five minutes before it is to be carved. 

TOMATOES AND Coiysr, STEWED. 

Slice eight large tomatoes, when you have skinned 
them. Add the corn cut from six ears ; put into a sauce- 
pan and stew twenty minutes ; season with pepper, salt, 
and sugar. Add a great lump of butter rolled in flour, 
and cook ten minutes longer. 

POTATOES IN JACKETS. 

Put on in boiling salt water, and cook twenty minutes; 
then throw in a cup of cold water. Bring rapidly to the 



SECOND WEEK WEDNESDAY. 

second boil, and, when a fork pierces the largest easily, 
turn off the water, and set the uncovered pot upon the 
range, to dry off the moisture. Serve in a dish lined with 
a napkin. 

MASHED SQUASH. 

Pare, quarter, lay in cold water ten minutes, and cook 
soft in hot, salted water. Mash in a hot colander very 
quickly ; season with butter, pepper, and salt, and dish 
very hot. 

PEACHES AND CREAM. 

See Wednesday of First Week in August. 



Second Uhek. lUebne0ban. 



Cream Soup. 

Baked Calf s Head, with Mushrooms. Spinach. 

Succotash. Lettuce. 



Apple Pudding. 

CREAM SOUP. 

The liquor in which your calf's head was boiled ; i 
onion ; bunch of parsley ; i blade of mace ; i cup of 
milk ; yolks of 2 eggs ; pepper and salt ; i teaspoonful 
corn-starch, rubbed in cold water. 

Boil your calf's head early in the day, until you can just 
handle it without breaking it to pieces. It will be firmer 
for baking if left to get cold at this juncture. Skim the 
pot-liquor, put in the sliced onion, parsley, and mace, 
and boil slowly two hours. Strain, cool, skim, season, 
and thicken slightly with the corn-starch. Beat the yolks 
in a bowl, add the boiling milk, and pour into the heated 
tureen. Add the soup, stir up well, and serve. 

BAKED CALF'S HEAD, WITH MUSHROOMS. 
Set the cold boiled calf's head in the oven ; pour a cup 
of pot-liquor, boiling hot, over it, and bake half an hour, 



468 AUGUST. 

basting very often.' Then dredge well with flour and 
baste twice with butter. Now coat thickly with a paste 
made of the brains, boiled, cooled and beaten smooth with 
an egg, and seasoned with pepper and salt. When this 
has browned, dish the head. Strain the gravy, add half a 
cupful of mushrooms, boiled and chopped, a very little 
browned flour, the juice of a lemon, and, if needed, a little 
boiling water. Stew one minute and send up in a boat. 

SPINACH. 

Boil in hot water, a little salt, about twenty minutes. 
Drain and press ; then chop very fine and return to the 
fire with a good lump of butter, salt, pepper, sugar, a few 
tablespoonfuls of cream, and beat to a smooth mixture 
like custard. Pour into a deep dish and serve. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Cut the corn from six or seven cobs ; mix with it one- 
third the quantity of Lima beans ; just cover with water, 
and stew gently half an hour. Turn off most of the water, 
add a cup of milk, and when this heats, a great lump of 
butter rolled in flour, with pepper and salt. Simmer half 
an hour longer, stirring up often. 

LETTUCE. 

Pick apart the heads and pile upon pounded ice, on a 
glass dish. Pass vinegar, pepper, salt, and powdered sugar 
with it. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Sliced tart apples ; bread-crumbs ; butter ; sugar ; cin- 
namon. 

Butter a pudding-dish very well, and put in a layer of 
crumbs ; then dots of butter ; next, sliced apples strewed 
with sugar and cinnamon more buttered crumbs. Re- 
peat the layers in this order until your dish is full, with 
crumbs on top. Bake, covered, half an hour or forty 
minutes for a large dish. Turn out, pour liquid sauce 
over it, and eat hot with more. 



SECOND WEEK THURSDAY. 469 

Seconb tDak. t)ur0irap. 

Beef Bouillon. 

Boiled Beef and Vegetables. 

Mashed Potatoes. Raw Tomatoes 



Peach Pie. 



BEEF BOUILLON. 

4 

6 Ibs. of round of beef, bound into a good shape with 
tape ; 3 small carrots ; 3 turnips ; 8 very small young 
onions, and one large one stuck with four cloves. Bunch 
of herbs ; i pint of string-beans and same of green peas ; 
i small head of cauliflower ; 4 quarts of water ; pepper 
and salt ; noodles, rice or sago. 

Put the beef whole into the water, and heat slowly to a 
boil. When you have taken off the scum, dip out a pint 
of the liquor, an$ put by for cooking the vegetables. Add 
to the .liquor left with the beef one sliced carrot, one tur- 
nip, also sliced, the large onion and the herbs. Stew 
slowly four hours ; take out the beef and keep hot over 
boiling water. Strain the soup, pulping the vegetables ; 
cool and skim, return to the fire, and, when it heats, add 
noodles, boiled rice or soaked German sago. Simmer 
five minutes and pour into the tureen. 

THE BEEF AND VEGETABLES. 

Pare the. two turnips and two carrots ; string the beans ; 
top, tail and skin the onions, and cook these, with the 
cauliflower, half an hour in the pint of hot broth, slightly 
salted. Then add the peas, and cook twenty minutes 
more. Serve the beef upon a hot dish ; slice the turnips 
and carrots and clip the cauliflower into bunches, and lay, 
each kind of vegetable by itself, about the meat. Make 
a sauce by heating and skimming a cupful of the soup- 
broth, stirring into it a great spoonful of butter rolled in a 
heaping teaspoonful of flour, and, when it has thickened, 
seasoning with pepper, salt, a little French mustard, and 
the juice of half a lemon. Serve in a boat. 



47O AUGUST. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Treat as directed on Monday of this week. 

RAW TOMATOES. 
See Friday of First Week in August. 

PEACH PIE. 

Pare, but do not stone ripe, rich peaches. Have 
ready your pie plates lined with a good paste ; put in the 
fruit ; sweeten well ; cover with pastry, and bake. Eat 
fresh not warm with powdered sugar sifted over them. 



Seconir tihek. 



Eel Soup. 

Broiled Chickens. Broiled Tomatoes. 

Scalloped Squash. Grape Jelly. 

Watermelons and Nutmeg Melons. 



EEL SOUP. 

4 Ibs. of eels ; 3 quarts of water ; i chopped onion ; 
minced parsley ; a blade of mace ; pepper, salt, and 
lemon -juice ; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in flour ; 
dripping. 

Clean the eels, removing all the fat, and cufinto short 
pieces. Fry a chopped onion brown in plenty of dripping ; 
wipe the eels dry and fry them in the same. Put into a 
pot with the onion and mace ; cover with three quarts of 
cold water, and stew slowly two hours. Then season ; 
stir in the floured butter ; simmer three minutes, add the 
lemon-juice, and pour out. 

BROILED CHICKENS. 

Clean, wash off the blood, but do not soak ; split down 
the backs, and lay upon a gridiron, or sticks laid over a 



SECOND WEEK SATURDAY. 47 l 

dripping-pan of boiling water. Cover with another pan 
and steam half an hour, in the oven or upon the range. 
Wipe off the moisture lightly, and cook upon a buttered 
gridiron over hot coals, turning when it drips. Let it get 
tender and brown without scorching. When done, lay 
upon a hot dish ; biitter well, pepper and salt, and send 
up at once. 

BROILED TOMATOES. 

Slice fine ripe tomatoes without peeling them, and cook, 
held between the wires of an oyster-broiler, until hissing 
hot and slightly browned. Lay upon a hot dish, and dress 
with a mixture of butter heated almost to boiling, with a 
little vinegar, salt, pepper, and mustard. 

SCALLOPED SQUASH. 

Mash in the usual way ; put upon a layer of crumbs 
laid in the bottom of a pudding-dish, having seasoned the 
squash with butter, pepper, and salt. Pour a little cream 
on top, and strew with buttered crumbs. Bake, covered, 
half an hour, then brown. 

NUTMEG AND WATER MELONS. 

Keep both on ice for several hours. Serve, by wiping 
the watermelon and laying it whole upon a long dish, to 
be carved at table. If cut up too long before it is to be 
eaten, it becomes insipid. Cut the nutmeg melons in two ; 
take out the seeds, and put a lump of ice in each half. 



Second Uttk. Saturbag. 

Vegetable Soup with Eggs. 

Larded Mutton Chops. Green Peas. 

Boiled Green Corn. Whole Boiled Potatoes 



Blackberry Roley-Poley. 

VEGETABLE SOUP WITH EGGS. 

3 Ibs, of beef coarse and cut into strips ; 2 Ibs. veal 
from the scrag ; 2 Ibs. marrow-bones of any kind ; 2 car 



47-2 AUGUST. 

rots ; i turnip ; i krge onion ; 6 tomatoes ; corn from 
three ears, grated oft"; i pint of green peas ; sweet herbs ; 
pepper and salt ; 6 quarts of water ; 6 or S eggs. 

Put the meat, bones, and all the vegetables on in the 
water, early in the day, and boil slowly five or six hours. 
Should the liquid sink more than one-third, add boiling 
water. The meat should be in rags, and the vegetables 
broken to pieces. Strain ; pulp the vegetables through 
the colander; cool, and skim the stock, and season well. 
Divide, and set aside a goodly portion for Sunday, keep- 
ing it on ice. Boil up, skim again, pour into the tureen, 
and lay on the surface the. poached yolks of as many eggs 
as there are people to be served. Use the whites for 
white, silver, or lady cake. 

LARDED MUTTON CHOPS. 

Trim off all the fat and skin, leaving a bare piece of bone 
at the end of each. Lard closely with fat salt pork, passing 
the lardoons quite through the meat. Put on in a sauce- 
pan, with enough gravy to cover them, and what remains of 
your can of mushrooms from day before yesterday. They 
will have kept well on ice. Cut each mushroom in two. 
Cover, and simmer gently until the chops are tender. (The 
gravy should be cold when it is poured upon them.) Take 
up the chops ; arrange upon a dish. Add a heaping tea- 
spoonful of currant jelly and a little browned flour to the 
gravy, boil once, and pour over the meat. Garnish with 
sliced lemon. 

GREEN PEAS. 

See Sunday of First Week in August. 

BOILED GREEN CORN. 
See Sunday of First Week in August. 

POTATOES BOILED WHOLE. 

Treat as directed on Tuesday of this week, only strip- 
ping off the skins after they are boiled, and, when they are 
dished, dressing them with hot butter mixed with minced 
parsley and pepper and salt. Serve very hot. 



THIRD WEEK SUNDAY. 4/3 

BLACKBERRY ROLEY POLEY. 

i quart of prepared flour ; i heaping tablespoonful of 
lard ; and the same of butter, rubbed with a little salt, 
into the flour ; enough milk about two cups to make 
soft dough. 

Roll out into a sheet a quarter of an inch thick. Strew, 
leaving a narrow margin at the sides, with sound black' 
berries, sprinkled with sugar. Roll tightly. Sew up with 
a "felled" seam, in a cloth, leaving room for swelling. 
Put into a pot of boiling water, and keep at the boil an 
hour and a quarter. Dip the cloth in cold wate'r to 
loosen it, and turn out. Eat cold with hard sauce. 



SEtytrtr Ukek. Sunirag. 

Tomato Soup. 

Fillet of Veal. Chopped Potatoes. 

Green Corn Pudding. String-Beans. 

Peach Leche Crdma. 
Marbled Cake. * 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Take the fat from the top of your soup-stock ; heal 
and add a pint of strained tomato sauce well seasoned 
Simmer ten minutes, and it is ready. 

FILLET OF VEAL. 

Boil, blanch, and chop two sweetbreads ; mix with them a 
slice of cooked corned ham, minced, and some fine bread- 
crumbs ; season with pepper, salt, a pinch of lemon-peel, 
and bind with a beaten egg. Stuff a fillet of veal with this 
mixture. Bind a broad strip of muslin about it, as wide 
as the meat is high ; set in a dripping-pan, and pour a cup 
of hot water around it. Cover the top with milk in which 
has been mixed a tablespoonful of melted butter. Pom 



474 AUGUST. 

on carefully so as not to run down the sides. Bake, bast- 
ing for one hour with milk and butter, for another hoin 
with cream, in which has been stirred a pinch of soda. 
Unbind the muslin from the fillet, dish it ; add to the 
gravy a little hot water and a teaspoonful of corn-starch 
wet in cold water ; boil up, and pour half upon the veal, 
the rest into a boat. 

CHOPPED POTATOES. 

Chop cold, boiled potatoes into rather coarse dice ; 
cover with warm milk in which a pinch of soda has been 
dropped ; when very hot, stir in a lump of floured butter 
and a little minced parsley and onion. Simmer five min- 
utes and serve. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING. 
See Friday of First Week in August. 

STRING-BEANS. 
See Tuesday of First Week in August 

PEACH LECHE-CRMA. 

12 ripe peaches, pared, stoned and cut in halves; 3 
eggs, and the whiter of 2 more ; \ cup of powdered sugar ; 
2 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch wet in cold milk ; i table- 
spoonful melted butter ; i pint of milk. 

Scald the milk, stir in the corn-starch, and, when it 
begins to thicken, take from the fire and put in the but- 
ter. When lukewarm, whip in the beaten yolks until all 
Are very light. Put a thick substratum of peaches into a 
dish; strew with sugar, and pour the creamy compound 
over them. Bake in a quick oven ten minutes and 
spread with a meringue made of five whites whipped stiff 
with a little powdered sugar. Shut the oven-door until 
this is firm. Eat cold with cream. 



THIRD WEEK MONDAY. 475 



5ll)irb 



Quick Soup. 

Dijon Pate. Lima Beans. 

Mashed Potatoes. Raw Tomatoes. 

Pears, Peaches, and Bananas. 
Iced Coffee, Crackers and Cheese. 



QUICK SOUP. 

2 Ibs. of raw lean beef, chopped very fine ; 3 pints of 
boiling water in which an onion, a turnip, and a carrot 
all pared and sliced have been boiled twenty minutes : 
pepper, salt, and a tablespoonful of tomato catsup. 

Put the beef into a tin pail and set in cold water. 
Bring this slowly to a boil, then pour in the boiling water 
upon the smoking hot meat inside. Cover closely, boil 
for half an hour in the hot water ; turn into a saucepan ; 
season, simmer ten minutes, strain, pressing and wringing 
the meat, and pour into the tureen. 

DIJON PAT. 

i large cup of cold boiled rice ; 2 raw eggs ; \ cup of 
milk ; 2 cups of minced veal ; \ cupful of gravy or drawn 
butter; 4 hard boiled eggs, sliced; pepper and salt. 

Butter a pudding-mould one without a cylinder and 
line it with a thick coating of the rice worked to a paste 
with the milk and beaten eggs, and seasoned with pepper 
and salt. The paste should be quite stiff. Line the in- 
side of this in turn with the sliced eggs, and within this 
pack the minced veal, wet with gravy and seasoned to 
taste. The stuffing of the fillet of veal should be chopped 
with the meat. Cover with rice ; put on the lid of the 
mould ; set it in boiling water and cook one hour. Turn 
out carefully, and serve with a good gravy in a boat. 
The gravy, if you have no other, can be made of odds- 
and-ends of the veal boiled down in water. Or a cup of 
your tomato soup of yesterday will make a good sauce. 



476 AUGUST. 

LIMA BEANS. 
See Wednesday, First Week in August. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Prepare as usual, and do not brown. 

RAW TOMATOES. 
See Friday of First Week in August. 

PEARS, PEACHES, AND BANANAS. 

Arrange tastefully in fruit dishes or baskets, with green 
leaves about them. 

ICED COFFEE, CRACKERS, AND CHEESE. 
See Monday of Second Week in August. 



Mutton Broth. 

Brunswick Stew. Onions Stewed Brown. 

Potatoes a la Duchesse. Cucumbers. 

Peaches and Cream. 
Sponge-Cake. 

MUTTON BROTH. 

3 Ibs. of lean mutton ; 2 turnips ; i carrot ; 2 onions ; 
bunch of parsley ; i cup of milk ; i tablespoonful of corn- 
starch ; 3 quarts of water. 

Boil meat, cut into strips, and the vegetables, sliced, in 
the water two hours and a half. The water should be re- 
duced one-third. Strain, taking out the meat, and rub- 
bing the vegetables to a pulp through the colander. 
Cool, skim, season, and return to the fire. Heat, stir in 



THIRD WEEK TUESDAY. 477 

the corn-starch wet up with water, and pour into the 
tureen. Add the milk, boiling hot, stir well, and serve. 

BRUNSWICK STEW. 

3 fine gray squirrels, skinned and cleaned joint as you 
would chickens for a fricassee; \ Ib. of fat salt pork; i 
onion, sliced ; 12 ears of corn cut from the cob ; 6 large 
tomatoes, pared and sliced ; 3 tablespoonfuls of butter 
rolled in flour ; parsley ; enough water to cover the squir- 
rels. 

Put on squirrels, pork cut up small onion, and pars- 
ley in the water, and bring to a boil. When this has 
lasted ten minutes, put in the corn, and stew until the 
squirrels are tender. Then add the tomatoes, cut up thin. 
Twenty minutes later, stir in the butter and flour. Sim- 
mer ten minutes, and pour into a large, deep dish. 

ONIONS STEWED BROWN. 

10 or 12 small onions ; i cup of gravy from your soup, 
before it is strained ; seasoning. 

Top, tail, and skin the onions. Parboil for ten min- 
utes ; throw off the water, and cover with the cooled and 
skimmed gravy. Season, and stew until the onions are 
tender. Then stir in a tablespoonful of butter rubbed up 
with browned flour. Simmer five minutes. 

POTATOES 1 LA DUCHESSE. 

Work a beaten egg and a little butter into each cup of 
mashed potatoes ; put a tablespoonful of butter into a 
saucepan, and stir and turn the potato in it until very hot. 
Do not let it " catch " on the sides. Turn out, and 
mould in greased muffin-rings. Leave it to cool in these ; 
then loosen gently upon a greased baking-pan, and bake 
until delicately browned. 

CUCUMBERS. 
See Monday of Second Week in August. 

PEACHES AND CREAM, WITH SPONGE-CAKE. 
See Wednesday of First Week in August. 



478 AUGUST. 

5lI)irJr tihtk. ttUiitealtog. 

Ox-cheek Soup. 

Roast Beef. Mashed Squash 

Qreen Corn cut from the Cob. Fried Egg-plant. 



Open Apple Custard Tart. 



OX-CHEEK SOUP. 

The meat from the cheeks of an ox-head ; 2 sliced 
onions, fried brown ; sweet herbs ; i small cup of rice ; 
i teaspoonful of curry-powder ; 3 quarts of water ; pepper 
and salt ; bones of the head. 

Cut the meat very small ; put with the ' fried onions 
and bones into a pot, and pour on the water. Stew 
slowly three hours. Strain, cool, skim ; put in seasoning, 
herbs, and the rice, previously soaked two hours. Stew 
half an hour ; add the curry-powder, wet in cold water ; 
boil up, and pour out. 

ROAST BEEF. 

Lay a neat cut of rib-roast, trimmed and skewered, in 
a dripping-pan ; dash a cupful of boiling water all over it, 
and roast ten minutes to the pound, if you like it rare. 
Just before taking it up. baste it with butter the previous 
and abundant bastings should have been with its own 
gravy dredge with flour, and, as it browns, again with 
butter. Pour off the fat from the gravy before thicken- 
ing and seasoning it. Much of the so-called beef gravy is 
only fit for the dripping-pot. 

MASHED SQUASH. 

Pare, quarter, seed, and boil in hot, salted water. 
Drain, and mash in a hot colander ; season with pepper, 
salt, and butter, and dish hot. 

GREEN CORN CUT FROM THE COB. 
After boiling, cut the corn, with a sharp knife, from the 
cob, into a hot dish ; stir in butter, pepper, and salt, and 
cover to keep hot until eaten. 



THIRD WEEK THURSDAY. 479 

FRIED EGG-PLANT. 
Please see Sunday, First Week in August. 

OPEN APPLE CUSTARD TART. 

12 juicy, tart apples ; i cup of sugar ; grated peel of a 
lemon ; i pint of milk ; 3 eggs, and 3 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, for the custard ; good pie-paste. 

Put a border of pie-crust around the flat brim of a pie- 
plate, without lining the bottom. Fill the plate with 
sliced apple, sugared, with lemon-peel scattered here and 
there. Put in a little water. Cover with a crust, in the 
centre of which you have marked a circle with a cake- 
cutter, or large tumbler. Bake the pie ; with a sharp 
knife, cut out the marked circle \ lift ihe centre-piece, 
and fill the inside of the pie with a warm custard made of 
the milk, eggs, and sugar, boiled until it begins to thicken, 
Eat cold. 



<EI)ivlr lUeek. 



Mrs. B.'s Corn Soup. 

Smothered Chicken. Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Scalloped Potatoes. Beets. 



Cottage Pudding. 



MRS. B.'s CORN SOUP. 

15 ears of corn, grated from the cob as close as the 
grater will take oft" the grains ; the bones and other u trim- 
mings " of yesterday's roast beef, both raw and cooked ; 
i onion ; i cup of milk ; 2 great spoonfuls of butter, 
rolled in flour ; pepper and salt ; 3 quarts of water. 

Put the empty cobs, the bones, etc., with the onion, on 
in the water, and stew two hours. Strain off the water, 
and put the grated corn into it with pepper and salt. 
Stew gently one hour ; add the floured butter ; simmei 



AVGVST. 

ten minutes, and potar into the tureen. Add the milk* 
boiling hot ; stir up and serve. 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN. 

Split a pair of youn^, but well-grown chickens down 
the back, as for broiling. Lay flat in a dripping pan ; 
pour a cup of boiling water over them, and invert another 
pan over them so as to cover closely. Roast half an 
hour, and baste very freely with butter and water. Ten 
minutes later baste with gravy from the pan. In five 
more, with melted butter, profusely. Bake until the fowls 
are tender and well colored. Dish, salt and pepper them ; 
thicken and season the gravy ; pour some over the chick- 
ens and send up the rest in a boat. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Choose large, smooth tomatoes; cut a piece from the 
top of each ; take out the inside, taking care not to cut 
the skin. Chop up the tomato-pulp with a little cold 
beef; add one-fourth as much bread crumbs as you have 
pulp, and wet all with beef gravy, seasoning with a little 
sugar, pepper, and salt. Kill the tomatoes with this 
force-meat ; put on the top slices ; pack the stuffing that 
remains between the tomatoes, and pour ^ravy upon this ; 
cover and bake from forty to forty-five minutes. 



SCALLOPED 

2 cups of mashed potatoes ; 3 tablespoonfuls of cream ; 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter ; yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs , 
i raw beaten egg ; handful fine crumbs ; pepper and salt. 

Beat up the hot potatoes light with butter, cream, raw 
egg and seasoning, JPut a layer in the bottom of a bakes 
dish ; cover with thin slices of yolk ; salt and pepper ; 
put on more potato, and go on thus until the dish is full. 
.Cover the top layer of potato with cnuubs, and bake, 
covered, half an hour, then brown 4uickly. Serve in the 
bake-dish. 

BEETS, 

Cut off the tops, taking care not to scratch the skins, 
Boil at least one ho'ur ia hot salted water ; scrape and 



THIRD WRRKFRIDA K 

slice. Put into a deep dish and season with a few spoon- 
fuls of hot water mixed with as much vinegar and a little 
pepper and salt. 

COTTAOB PUDDING. 

I cup of milk ; i tablespoonful of butter rubbed in a 
cup of sugar; 2 eggs; 3 cups of prepared flour; a little 
salt. 

Heat the yolks into the butter and sugar ; add the milk, 
then the flour, alternately with the whisked whites. Hake 
in a cake-mould ; turn out hot upon a plate, cut in slices, 
and cat with sweet sauce. 



Wjivb ilUck. Jribaji. 

Pith Chowder. 

Omelette with Gravy. Boiled Corn. . 

Potato. Salad. 

Peach Batter Pudding. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

3 Ibs. of cod, or halibut, or any other firm white fish ; 
8 potatoes, sliced and parboiled ; i sliced onion, lar^e ; 
A Ib. fat salt pork, cut into dice ; 2 cups of boiling milk, 
with a pinch of soda stirred in ; 6 Boston crackers, split 
and buttered thickly ; chopped parsley, pepper, and salt 
to taste ; i lemon, pared and cut into thin slices ; claret. 

Fry the pork in its own fat ; add the onions, and, when 
they are brown, drain from the fat. Put a layer of pork 
into the soup pot ; then, one of potatoes, peppered ; 
next, fish, onions, more pork, and so on. Pour in a glass 
if claret, then just enough boiling water to cover all.. 
Stew gently half an hour. Line the tureen with buttered 
crackers ; pour on the boiling milk, and set the tureen in 
boiling water until the chowder is done. Just before 
taking it up add the parsley. Boil one minute, and pour 
out. 

81 



482 AUGUST. 

OMELETTE WITH GRAVY. 

6 or 8 eggs ; i tablespoonful of cream ; i scant cup of 
gravy left from or made of the remains of yesterday's 
chickens ; butter for frying. 

Put a good piece of butter in a frying-pan, and when it 
hisses, pour in the beaten eggs. Shake and loosen them 
as they form ; fold over in the middle ; invert the pan 
over a hot dish, and pour hot, savory gravy around it. 

BOILED CORN. 
See Sunday of First Week in August. 

POTATO SALAD. 
See Sunday of First Week in August. 

PEACH BATTER PUDDING. 

12 rich ripe peaches, pared, but not stoned ; i quart 
of milk; about io tablespoonfuls of prepared flour; 5 
beaten eggs ; i tablespoonful melted butter ; i saltspoon- 
ful of salt. 

Set the peaches closely together in a buttered pudding- 
dish ; strew with sugar, and pour over them a batter made 
of the ingredients above named. 



Sfytrtr tlleek. Saturttat). 

White Mock Turtle Soup. 

Calf's Liver and Bacon. Breaded Egg-plant. 

Corn and Tomatoes. Made Mustard. 

String-Beans. 

Nutmeg Melons and Peaches. 



WHITE MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

i calf s head, cleaned with the skin on ; $ Ib. lean ham, 
cut into strips ; i carrot ; i onion ; i turnip ; bunch of 



THIRD WEEK SATURDAY. 483 

sweet herbs ; 4 tablespoonfuls of flour and the same of 
butter ; i cup of milk ; 6 quarts of water ; pepper and 
salt. 

Boil the head in the water with the ham, onion, turnip, 
and carrot sliced, and the chopped herbs. Cover, and 
stew slowly until the bones fall from the meat. Take cut 
the head ; return the bones to the soup. Divide the meat 
into two portions ; set by one to cool for present use ; 
put the other, highly seasoned, into a large bowl, and strain 
half the stock over it. When cool, set on the ice for to- 
morrow. Chop the calf's ears, and the less desirable parts 
of the meat reserved for to-day, fine, and put back upon 
the bones in the soup. Boil gently half an hour. Mean- 
time, put the butter into a frying-pan, and when hot, stir 
in the flour. It must not get at all brown. When it is 
again bubbling hot, stir in a cupful of the soup ; boil one 
minute, and pour it out to cool. Strain your soup ; stir 
in the cooled mixture ; boil up and skim, when you have 
seasoned quite highly ; put in three or four handfuls of 
meat-dice cut up from the fat, gelatinous parts of the cold 
head ; simmer to a boil ; pour into the tureen, add the 
milk, boiling hot, and send to table. 



CALF'S LIVER AND BACON. 

3 Ibs. of fresh liver ; i lb. of streaked bacon ; juice of a 
lemon ; i tablespoonful of flour, and same of butter ; pep- 
per, salt, and onion. 

Soak the liver in cold water fifteen minutes ; wipe dry, 
and cut in strips an inch wide, and three long. Cut as 
many thinner strips of bacon, and fry these three minutes 
in their own fat ; take out and keep hot while you fry an 
onion sliced with the liver in the same fat. Salt, pep- 
per, and dredge the liver in flour before it goes in. When 
it is done lay in two rows, the length of the dish, with a 
strip of bacon between each piece and the next. Strain 
the fat, and return to the pan with a cupful of hot water, 
the butter rubbed into the flour, and, when it has boiled 
up. the juice of a lemon. Pour over the liver. Pass 
mustard with this dish. 



AUGUST. 

BREADED EGG-PLANT. 

Slice half an inch thick, and lay in salt and water one 
hour, with a heavy plate on top to keep them under. 
Then wipe dry, dip in beaten egg, roll in cracker-crumbs, 
and fry in hot lard or dripping. Drain, pepper and salt 
them, and serve. 

STRING-BEANS. 

Be doubly careful, as the season advances, to pare off 
the toughening fibres on both sides. Cut in short pieces ; 
boil in hot salted water forty minutes, drain, pepper, salt, 
and butter. 

CORN AND TOMATOES. 

8 large tomatoes, pared and sliced thin ; 6 ears of corn, 
the grains shaved from the cob by successive strokes of a 
keen knife ; sugar, pepper, salt, and butter. 

Put corn and tomatoes together, and cook forty min- 
utes. Season, and simmer ten minutes more. Pour out. 

NUTMEG MELONS AND PEACHES. 

Halve the melons, take out the seeds, and put a piece 
of ice in each half. Pile the peaches in a fruit-dish, cr 
basket, with green leaves between. 



Jouvtl) 



Clear Soup. 

Larded Ducks, Succotash. 

Stewed Squash. Boiled Potatoes. 

Peach Ice-Cream. 
Cake. 

CLEAR SOUP. 

Take the fat from your soup-jelly ; pour into a pot and 
heat until you can strain it off from the meat. Cut up the 



FOURTH WEEK SUNDAY. 485* *' 

lattei ; season with salt and a little spice, and put back 
on the ice. There is still gelatine enough in it to make 
it valuable. Boil and skim your soup two or three min- 
utes, and add a small cup of German sago which hay been 
soaked in a little water one hour. When clear, serve. 

LARDED DUCKS. 

After cleaning and washing, lard the breasts of a pair 
of ducks with narrow strips of bacon. You must have a 
larding- needle for this, since both ends of the lardoons 
must project upon the same surface. Half roast the 
ducks ; put on in a saucepan, with two cups of broth 
made by abstracting a cup of jelly from your soup-stock, 
thinning it with boiling water and seasoning it. Add a 
chopped onion and a glass of claret. Stew half an hour, 
or until tender ; dish ; take the fat from the gravy, thicken, 
boil and pour half over the ducks, the rest into a boat. 

SUCCOTASH. 

8 ears of corn the grains cut off; about a pint of 
Lima beans ; i tablespoonful of floured butter ; pepper 
and salt ; j cup of milk. 

Boil corn and beans for nearly an hour in enough boil- 
ing water to cover them. Turn this off, add the milk ; 
when this heats, butter, pepper and salt. Simmer ten 
minutes. 

STEWED SQUASH. 

Pare, seed, quarter, and cook soft in boiling salted water. 
Pour this off, and add a few tablespoonfuls of strained 
gravy from your ducks or any other you may have. 
Beat the squash to pieces in this, in the saucepan ; season 
well and stir until as stiff and smooth as apple sauce ; 
then dish upon crustless slices of fried bread. 

BOILED POTATOES. 
See Saturday, Second Week in August. 

PEACH ICE-CREAM. 

i quart of rich milk and as much sweet cream ; 4 cups 
of sugar ; 6 eggs ; i quart of very ripe peaches pared and 
cut small. 



486 AUGUST. 

Make as directed in full on Sunday of Second Week in 
July ; but stir in the peaches just before closing the freezer 
for the second time, beating them \vell into the congealing 
cream. Unless they are very sweet, you would do well to 
dredge them in sugar before they go in. 



JFourtl) 



A Medley Soup. 

Casserole of Ducks, and Macaroni. 

Broiled Ham. Stewed Onions. 

Chopped Potatoes. 

Watermelons and Pears. 



A MEDLEY SOUP. 

Cut up the cold calfs head or the remains of it set by 
for the second time on yesterday into dice. Save half 
to be added as a final touch to your soup. Put the rest 
with the skeleton of your ducks into the soup-pot, and 
cover with three quarts of water. When it has simmered 
three hours and boiled down one-third, strain and return 
to the fire, with half a cup of green peas, and the same of 
tomato-sauce or you can put in, if more convenient, the 
remnants of the succotash and squash left from Sunday's 
dinner. If you use the raw peas, simmer half an hour ; 
if the cooked vegetables, but ten minutes. Add the meat- 
dice, boil up once, and serve. 

CASSEROLE OF DUCKS AND MACARONI. 

Make according to directions given for " Dijon Pate," 
on Monday of Third Week in August, substituting mac- 
aroni boiled twenty minutes in hot salted water, then cut 
into quarter-inch lengths, for the boiled rice, and minced 
duck for the veal. 



FOURTH WEEK TUESDAY. 

BROILED HAM. 

Cut smooth slices of cooked ham, and broil five min 
utes over or under clear coals. Pepper and butter 
each, and give also a mere touch of French mustard. 

STEWED ONIONS. 

Top, tail, and skin the pnions. Cook twenty minutes 
in boiling water ; throw this off, and cover with milk. 
Simmer ten minutes, or until tender ; stir in a lump of 
floured butter, season with pepper and salt; cook two 
minutes, and dish. 

CHOPPED POTATOES. 

Chop coarsely cold boiled potatoes. Have ready in a 
saucepan a little good dripping, well flavored. As it heats, 
put in the potatoes, and stir until smoking hot all through. 


WATERMELONS AND PEARS. 

Keep the watermelons on ice for some hours before you 
send them to table. Lay upon a large flat dish, and serve 
the pears in a fruit-dish or basket. 



Jourtl) 



Farina Soup. 

Haricot of Mutton. Moulded Potato. 

Raw Tomatoes. 



Baked Berry Dumplings. 
Iced Tea. 

FARINA SOUP. 

2 Ibs. of lean coarse beef; 2 Ibs. of murtton-bones ; i 
onion ; i grated carrot, and i grated turnip ; bunch of 
herbs ; pepper and salt ; cup of farina, soaked two 
hours in a cup of milk ; 3 qts. of water. 



483 AUGUST. 

Crack the bones and chop the meat and onion. Put 
these on witl the other vegetables, the herbs, and water, 
and boil slowly three or four hours. Strain, cool, skim 
and season. Put in the farina with a pinch of soda, and 
simmer half an hour. 

HARICOT OF MUTTON. 

3 Ibs. of lean mutton ; i onion ; i cup of gravy taken 
from your soup ; i dessertspoonful of tomato catsup ; i 
carrot ; i cup of green peas ; i glass of sherry ; 2 spoon- 
fuls of butter; browned flour for thickening the gravy; 
pepper and salt. 

Cut the mutton into strips three inches long by one 
wide, and fry these, with the sliced onion, in the butter. 
Have ready the gravy in a saucepan, and put in the meat. 
Stew slowly nearly an hour. Then add the carrot, par- 
boiled and sliced, and the peas. Stew twenty minutes ; 
thickeri*the butter used for frying with browned flour, add 
pepper, salt, and the catsup ; pour into the stew, and 
cook three minutes. Add the wine ; boil up, and serve 
in a deep dish. 

MOULDED POTATO. 

Mash the potato smooth, working in a little milk, but- 
ter, and salt. Grease a pudding-mould ; press the potato 
in firmly, and turn out upon a hot dish. 

RAW TOMATOES. 
See Friday of First Week in August. 

BAKED BERRY DUMPLINGS. 

i quart of prepared flour ; 2$ tablespoonfuls of lard 
and butter mixed ; 2 cups of milk, or enough to make a 
soft dough. 

Roll out a quarter of an inch thick ; cut into oblong 
pieces, rounded at the corners. Put blackberries or 
huckleberries in the middle, sprinkle with sugar, and bring 
the edges together, pinching them to keep them from 
parting. Put into the oven with the joined edges down- 
ward, and bake forty minutes. Glaze with butter just 
before taking them up. 



FOURTH WEEK WEDNESDAY. 



Jourtl) tthek. tthlmtstrag. 

Squirrel Soup. 

Fricasseed Chicken. Boiled Rice. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. Lima Beans. 



Fruit. 
Iced Coffee and Ellie's Cake. 

SQUIRREL SOUP. 

2 large fine gray squirrels, skinned, cleaned and cut up , 
i Ib. lean corned ham, cut into dice ; i onion ; 2 blades 
of mace ; a little cayenne ; juice of a lemon ; browned 
flour ; 3 quarts of cold water ; dripping ; 2 tablespoonfuls 
of butter. 

Fry squirrel and onion in the dripping to a light brown. 
Drain off the fat and put them into the soup-pot with the 
water, ham, and mace. Cover closely, and stew until 
the meat is in rags, and the water reduced one-third. 
Strain, cool, and skim ; season and put over the fire. 
When it boils, skim well, and stir in the butter, cut up in 
browned flour. When it has thickened, add the lemon- 
juice and serve. 

FRICASSEED CHICKEN. 

Clean, wash and cut up a pair of full-grown chickens. 
Wash, but do not soak. Put into a pot with half a pound 
of fat salt pork, cut very thin, and enough cold water to 
cover them. Heat very slowly, and cook until tender. 
When done add a chopped onion, with chopped parsley 
and pepper. Cover again, and five minutes later, stir in 
a great tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour. Heat in 
another saucepan a cup of milk ; add two beaten eggs ; 
boil one minute. Arrange the chickens upon a dish ; 
strain the gravy ; stir in the milk and eggs, and without 
putting again over the fire, pour over the fowls. 

BOILED RICE. 

Wash well in several waters. Strain a half cupful of 
your chicken gravy with an equal quantity of soup ; add 



490 AUGUST. 

a little boiling water, and put on with the rice in a farina- 
kettle. When it is quite soft, and has absorbed all the 
broth, salt it, and stir in a little boiling milk in which has 
been melted a teaspoonful of butter, and a little minced 
parsley. Turn into a hot dish, when it has soaked up the 
milk, and pass grated cheese with it. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Pare and slice fine ripe tomatoes. Put into a bake- 
dish with alternate layers of buttered bread-crumbs. Sea- 
son each stratum of t9mato with pepper, salt and sugar. 
Bake covered, until very hot then, brown. The upper- 
most layer should be of crumbs. 

LIMA BEANS. 
See Wednesday, First Week in August. 

FRUIT. 

Dispose to the best advantage in baskets or dishes, with 
a garnishing of green leaves. 

ICED COFFEE AND ELLIE'S CAKE. 



See Monday, Second Week in August, for Iced Coffee. 
For Ellie's Cake, please consult " GENERAL RECEIPTS, 
No. i, OF COMMON SENSE IN THE HOUSEHOLD SERIES," 
page 326. 



Ham and Veal Soup. 

Beefsteak Pudding. Stuffed Egg-plant. 

Mashed Potatoes. Summer Salad. 



Peach Trifle. 



HAM AND VEAL SOUP. 

2 Ibs. of lean ham that near the hock will do cut into 
strips ; 2 Ibs. of lean veal ; 2 carrots ; 2 onions ; i blade 
of mace; of a cabbage heart, minced and parboiled; 



FOURTH WEEK THURSDAY. 49 1 

2 lemons; pepper; 4 quarts of water; i tablespoonful 
of Hour wet up in cold water. 

Put on meat, chopped vegetables, and water, and cook 
for four hours. Strain, cool, and take off the fat. The 
vegetables should be pulped through the colander. Re- 
turn to the fire, boil and skim for five minutes ; having 
seasoned with pepper, stir in the flour ; boil three min- 
utes, and pour out. 

BEEFSTEAK PUDDING. 

z\ Ibs. of rumpsteak ; i quart of prepared flour ; Ib. 
powdered suet, chopped with the flour ; pepper ; salt ; a 
very little minced parsley; i small pick'led onion, chopped ; 
nearly a cupful of broth, taken from the soup, cooled and 
skimmed. 

Make a paste of the suet and salted flour mixed with a 
little ice-water. Roll it out and line a round bowl with it. 
Cut the meat into dice; pepper and salt each piece, and 
roll in flour. Put them inside of the paste ; strew over 
them the parsley and pickle, and pour in the cold gravy. 
Cover the top with a paste-crust, overlapping the greased 
edges of the bowl ; press this down firmly all around ; en- 
velop all in a stout cloth, tied tightly under the bottom 
of the bowl ; plunge into boiling water and cook, at a 
steady boil, two hours and a quarter. Untie the cloth, 
invert the bowl with care over a hot dish ; turn out the 
pudding, ar.d serve at once. 

STUFFED EGG-PLANT. 

Parboil fur ten minutes. Slit down the side, and take 
out the seeds. Prop open the cut with a bit of clean 
wood, and lay in salt and water for one hour. Stuff with 
a force-meat of crumbs, fat salt pork, salt, pepper, nut- 
meg, parsley, and a bit of onion, all chopped. Moisten 
with a good gravy. Wind soft string about the egg-plant, 
to keep the cut closed, and bake, putting a cupful of weak 
broth in the dripping pan. Baste frequently ; at first, 
with butter and water, then with the gravy. Baste twice 
with butter at the last. Lay the egg-plant in a deep dish ; 
add to the gravy a tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour,. 



492 AUGUST. 

and, when this boiVs, two or three spoonfuls of milk 01 
cream. Just boil, and pour upon the egg-plant. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Whip boiled potatoes light with a fork ; beat in milk, 
'butter, and salt, and heap like rock-work upon a hot dish. 

SUMMER SALAD. 

2 heads of lettuce ; a handful of water-cresses ; 5 very 
tender radishes, scraped and cut up ; i cucumber, pared, 
laid in ice-water for an hour, then sliced ; 3 hard-boiled 
eggs ; 2 teaspoonfuls of white sugar, and i, each, of salt, 
pepper, and made mustard ; 2 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, 
and 6 of vinegar. 

Rub sugar, salt, pepper, and mustard, to a paste with 
the oil. Pound the yolks fine, and work in. Then whip 
in, very gradually, the vinegar. Arrange the vegetables, 
all cut up neatly, in a salad-bowl, and strain the dressing 
over it. Garnish with the whites, sliced, laid around in a 
chain, with a nasturtium flower in every two or three 
links. 

PEACH TRIFLE. 

12 fine peaches, pared and sliced very thin ; i package 
Coxe's gelatine ; 2 cups white sugar ; i pint of boiling 
and i cup of cold, water; i cup of rich, sweet cream, 
with a pinch of soda dissolved in it, then whipped light in 
a syllabub-churn. 

Soak the gelatine two hours in the cup of cold water. 
Put it, with peaches and sugar, into a bowl ; cover, and 
let sta-nd an hour. Then pour on the boiling water ; stir 
and mash the peaches, and strain through muslin. When 
cold and slightly congealed, beat in quickly, a spoonful 
at a time, the whipped cream. It should be thick and 
white, or faintly colored. Form in a wet mould set cc 
ice. Eat with cake. 



FOURTH WEEK FRIDAY. 493 



Cauliflower Soup, without Meat. 

Fillets of Halibut, with Potatoes. 
Beef's Tongue, with Peas. 
Green Corn Pudding. Raw Cucumbers. 

Melons, Peaches, and Pears. 

CAULIFLOWER SOUP, WITHOUT MEAT. 

i fine cauliflower ; 2 tablespoon fuls of butter rolled in i 
of flour ; i onion ; bunch of parsley ; 2 blades of mace ; 
2 quarts of water ; 2 cups of milk ; pepper and salt ; a 
pinch of soda in the milk. 

Cut the cauliflower into bunches, reserving about a 
cupful of small clusters to put whole into the soup. Chop 
the rest, also the onion and herbs, and put on in the 
water, with the mace. Cook an hour, and rub through a 
colander. Return the puree, thus obtained, to the pot, 
and season with pepper and salt. As it boils, stir in the 
whole clusters, previously boiled tender in hot, salted 
water, and left to cool. When the soup is again hot, put 
in the floured butter ; stir until this has thickened ; pour 
into the tureen, and add the boiling milk. Pass sliced 
lemon and cream crackers with it. 

FILLETS OF HALIBUT, WITH POTATOES. 

3 Ibs. of halibut, cut into strips three inches long, one 
wide, and three-quarters of an inch thick ; 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter ; pepper ; salt ; i teaspoonful of anchovy 
paste ; a pinch of cayenne ; a little boiling water; juice 
of a lemon. 

Lay the slices of fish in salt and water for half an hour. 
Wipe them dry. Have ready the butter in a saucepan, 
with pepper and salt. When it is hot, put in the pieces 
of fish, and cook gently, without browning, until tender. 

Meanwhile, cut some potatoes round with your " gouge," 
or, if you have none, into neat squares ; parboil and 



494 AUGUST. 

drain them, and simmer ten minutes in enough hot milk 
to cover them ; then stir in a lump of butter ; season 
with pepper and salt. Cook five minutes ; drain the 
liquid into another saucepan, and keep the potatoes hot. 
.Lay the fish in order upon a hot dish, the potatoes around 
it, anc set over hot water, while you thicken the milk in 
which the potatoes were boiled (never omitting the pinch 
of soda), wi ;h a little flour. Boil up, add the butter used 
for cooking the fish, and the anchovy sauce. Squeeze a 
small lemon over the fish, and pour on the hot sauce. 

BEEF'S TONGUE WITH GREEN PEAS. 

Parboil a corned tongue. Take it from the water, 
trim off the root and pare away the skin. Put into a 
broad saucepan with a cup of yesterday's soup, half a 
minced onion, a teaspoonfui of sugar, a little parsley and 
pepper. Cover, and cook slowly one hour, or* until ten- 
der. Slice round, and lay upon a hot dish. Heap each 
slice with a great spoonful of green peas boiled in hot 
salted water, drained well, and seasoned with butter, salt, 
and pepper. Strain the gravy, add a little of the water 
in which the tongue was boiled, a small spoonful of made 
mustard French mustard if you have it the juice of 
half a lemon, and thicken. with browned flour. Boil up 
and serve in a boat. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING. 
See Friday of First Week in August. 

RAW CUCUMBERS. 

Pare, lay in ice-water one hour ; slice, and pile upon 
pounded ice in a glass dish, passing the condiments with 
them. 

MELONS, PEACHES, AND PEARS. 

Serve the melons upon flat dishes ; the peaches and 
pears in fruit-salvers or in fancy baskets, with green leaves 
and flowers disposed tastefully among them. All would 
be the more refreshing for having lain in the ice-box or 
refrigerator awhile. 



FOURTH WEEK SATURDAY. 495 



Jbitrtl) tU eek. 

Beef Stock Soup. 

Boilel Ham. Onion Tomato Sauce. 

Squash au Gratin. Stripped Potatoes. 

Whole Peach Pie. 

BEEF STOCK SOUP. 

5 Ibs. of beef, and as many of bones ; 2 carrots ; 2 
onions, sliced and fried in dripping ; 2 turnips ; bunch of 
herbs ; 7 quarts of water ; 2 teaspoonfuls essence of cel- 
ery, or 3 stalks of the green plant, with the tops cut off ; 
pepper and salt ; dice of fried bread ; i large spoonful of 
tomato catsup. 

Cut up the meat, and chop the vegetables. Put with 
the herbs and cracked bones into a pot, and pour on two 
quarts of water. Heat slowly, and after it has boiled one 
hour, skim well, and add the other five quarts also cold. 
Cook steadily four or five hours longer, then strain, rub- 
bing the vegetables to pieces. There should be at least 
five quarts of liquid. If, in the boiling, it has lost too 
much, you should have replenished the pot with boiling 
water. Take out two quarts for to-day's soup. Return 
meat and bones to the fire, and pour the rest of the soup 
over them with another quart of cold water. Cover very 
closely and simmer at the back of the range two hours 
longer. Then set away in an earthenware vessel, having 
seasoned it, and when cold, put on ice. You will now 
have made soup-stock for three days. 

Cool the portion kept out for to-day ; take off all the 
fat, season and re-heat it. Boil gently and skim well. 
Stir in the catsup, and pour upon the fried bread already 
put into the tureen. 

BOILED HAM. 

Wash a ham thoroughly, scrubbing off all the rusty 
parts with the dust. Put on in plenty of cold water, and 
boil twenty minutes to the pound. Let it get almost cold 



AUGUST. 

in the water. If possible, do this oh Friday, and do not 
skin until perfectly cold on Saturday. The fat will then 
be white and prettily pitted, and the skin leave it easily. 
Twist frilled paper about the shank, and lay in a bed of 
curled fresh parsley. Carve in thin slices. 

ONION TOMATO SAUCE. 

2 quarts of ripe tomatoes ; i onion, chopped ; i table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley ; 2 teaspoonfuls sugar ; pep- 
per and salt to taste ; i tablespoonful of butter rolled in 
flour. 

Pare the tomatoes, and slice thin. Stew with the onion 
half an hour ; then pulp through a colander ; return to 
the saucepan with the seasoning, and when again hot, stir 
in the parsley and floured butter. Boil gently three min- 
utes. 

SQUASH AU GRATIN. 

Boil and mash, as usual, pressing out the water. Beat 
up with a good bit of butter, season with pepper and salt ; 
finally whip in two or three tablespoonfuls of milk and 
a raw egg. Pour into a buttered pudding dish ; strew 
thickly with fine crumbs and bake in a quick oven to a 
light brown. 

STRIPPED POTATOES. 

P-eel and cut potatoes lengthwise into strips. Lay in 
ice-water half an hour. Dry between two clean towels, 
and fry to a pale brown in hot, salted lard. Shake in a 
heated colander to clear them of the fat, and turn into a 
dish lined with a napkin. 

WHOLE PEACH PIE. 

Pare ripe peaches without removing the stones. Have 
your pie-dishes ready lined with a good paste, fill with the 
peaches ; strew these with sugar, and cover with crust. 
Bake in a steady oven. Sift sugar over it, and eat fresh, 
with cream po'ired upon each slice. 



FIRS "I WEEK SUNDAY. 4Q? 



SEPTEMBER. 



JTrst lUttk. Stwtrag. 

Vermicelli Soup. 

Roast Beef and Browned Potatoes. Fried Egg-plant. 

Boiled Green Corn. Raw Tomatoes. 

Narcissus Blanc-Mange. 
Iced Coffee and Sliced Cake. 



VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Take the fat from the top of your soup-stock ; dip out 
rather more than half. Add a little seasoning to that which 
remains, and return to the ice. Should the weather be very 
warm it will be wise to heat all together, and then divide, 
returning the smaller portion to the ice. Warm the stock 
designed for to-day with the remains of yesterday's to- 
mato sauce ; and when it begins to boil, strain through 
thin, coarse muslin. Put back over the fire, and take off 
all the scum that rises in ten minutes' boil. -Then put in 
a scant cupful of vermicelli, which has been broken up 
small, boiled five minutes in very hot water, and drained. 
Simmer five minutes, and pour out. 

ROAST BEEF AND BROWNED POTATOES. 

Have all gristly parts of the beef cut away, and such 
bones removed as will injure the shape, or embarrass the 
carver. Put the beef into a dripping-pan, throw a cupful 
of boiling water over it, and roast ten minutes per pound, 
basting very often and copiously. Just before taking it 
up, dredge with flour and baste once with butter. After 
dishing the meat, pour the top from the gravy ; add a little 
boiling water ; put it into a saucepan, and thicken witb 
browned flour. Pepper, and serve after a brief boil. 



SEPTEMBER. 

BROWNED POTATOES. 

Boil, and strip off the skins of large, fair potatoes. Half 
an hour before you take up the meat pour off the fat from 
the gravy ; lay your potatoes in the dripping-pan, and 
cook brown, basting frequently. Lay about the meat 
when dished. 

FRIED EGG-PLANT. 

Slice half an inch thick, and lay in salt water one hour, 
with a heavy plate on top to keep under the water. Pare 
each slice. Make a .batter of two eggs, a cup of milk, a 
little salt, and flour for thin batter. Wipe the egg-plant 
perfectly dry ; dip each slice in the batter, and fry in hot 
dripping. Drain well, and serve on a heated flat dish. 

BOILED GREEN CORN. 

Strip off all but the thin husk next the corn. Turn this 
dow-n, and pick off the silk from the grains. Replace the 
husk, tie a thread about it to keep it smooth, and cook 
the corn from thirty to forty minutes, according to size 
and age. Pull off the husk ; break the stalk close to the 
ear, and serve, wrapped in a napkin. 

RAW TOMATOES. 

Pare and slice ; put into a salad dish, and dress as fol- 
lows : Rub one teaspoonful of sugar, and half as much 
each of pepper, salt, and French or other made mustard, 
smooth with two tablespoonfuls of salad-oil. Beat in, a 
little at a time, five tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and half a 
teaspoonful extract of celery. Pour over the tomatoes, 
and set on ice until wanted. 

NARCISSUS BLANC-MANGE. 

i quart of milk ; i package Cooper's gelatine, soaked 
in 2 cups of cold water ; yolks of 4 eggs, beaten light; 
2 cups white sugar; i large ^cup of sweet cream, whipped 
with a little powdered sugar, and flavored with vanilla ; 
rose-water for the blanc-mange. 

Heat the milk to scalding. Stir in the sugar and gela- 
tine, and when these are dissolved, beat in the yolks, and 



FIRST WEEK MONDAY. 499 

cook two minutes. Turn out into a shallow dish to cool. 
When it begins to form, put, a few spoonfuls at a time, 
into a bowl, and whip vigorously, flavoring with rose- 
water. When it is a yellow sponge, put into a wet mould, 
with a cylinder in the centre. Do this on Saturday. On 
Sunday turn into a dish, and fill the whole in the midd : e 
Tvith whipped cream, just churned. Lay more whipped 
cream about the base. Like all other preparations of 
gelatine, this should be kept upon ice until you are ready 
to use it. 

ICED COFFEE AND SLICED CAKE. 
Make the coffee at breakfast-time. It should be very 
strong. While hot add one-fourth as much boiling milk. 
When cool put on ice, and serve with more ice in the 
tumblers. Send around a basket of cake with it. 



Jtrst illttk. ftlontrag. 

Ham and Egg Soup. 

Braised Larded Beef. Chopped Potatoes and Corn. 

Cucumbers and Opion Salad. Stewed Squash. 



Peaches and Cream. 

HAM AND EGG SOUP. 

A ham-bone broken to bits ; i quart of cold water ; 3 
pints of good stock ; as many poached eggs as you have 
people at table ; a little pepper; cup of rice. 

Boil your ham-bone in a quart of water until the liquid 
is reduced one-half. Strain off the stock from the meat 
and bones in the jar or bowl ; add the ham broth and 
half a cup of well-soaked rice. Simmer until this is soft,' 
skimming often, and pour into the tureen. Lay the poached 
eggs, neatly trimmed, round upon the top. 

BRAISED LARDED BEEF. 

Lard yesterday's cold roast with strips of fat salt pork 
lay in a broad saucepan ; half cover with gravy, and strew 



500 SEPTEMBER. 

minced onion over it. Cover closely and stew slowly at 
back of the range one hour. Dish the meat ; boil down 
the gravy fast for a few minutes, and pour over it. 

CHOPPED POTATOES AND CORN. 

Split each row of grain upon cobs of cold boiled corn, 
and cut them off clean. Add twice as much chopped 
cold boiled potatoes. Have a little good dripping hot in 
a frying-pan. Put in potatoes and corn and stir until very 
hot, but do not let them brown. Serve in a deep dish. 

CUCUMBER AND ONION SALAD. 

Pare the cucumbers and lay in ice-water one hour. Do 
the same with the onions in another bowl. Then slice 
them in the proportion of one onion to three large cucum- 
bers, and arrange in a salad-bowl, and season with vinegar, 
pepper, and salt. 

STEWED SQUASH. 

Pare, quarter and boil the squash in hot salted water. 
Drain, mash very smooth, and put back over the fire with a 
few spoonfuls of milk, a little chopped parsley, and a good 
lump of butter, rolled in flour. Stew five minutes, after 
the boil begins, stirring well from the bottom most of the 
time. Pour into a deep dish. 

PEACHES AND CREAM. 
See Wednesday of First Week in August. 



tUeelf. 



A Hash Soup. 
Kidneys Sautes with Wine. 

Baked Omelette aux Fines Herbes- 
String-Beans. Cauliflower au Gratin.- 

Syllabub and May's Cake. 

A HASH SOUP. 

The remains of your roast beef bones cracked, and 
meat, skin, etc., chopped ; 6 potatoes, boiled and mashed ; 



FIRST WEEK TUESDAY. 5! 

bunch of herbs, chopped ; i sliced onion ; salt and pep* 
per ; 3 quarts of water ; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, rolled 
in flour ; i tablespoonful of walnut catsup. 

Put on meat, bones, herbs, onion, and water, and sim- 
mer two hours, until the nourishment is all drawn from 
them. Strain, cool, take off the fat ; rub in the potat DCS 
through a colander, and season. When it is again hot, 
stir in the floured butter, and after boiling one minute, 
the catsup. Pour into the tureen. If you have any soup 
left from yesterday, you may add it to this, when the po- 
tatoes go in. 

KIDNEYS SAUTES WITH WINE. 

Cut the kidneys into thin slices, and cook ten minutes 
in a little dripping in a frying-pan. Take out and lay 
upon a hot-water dish, covering closely. Add to the 
dripping in the pan a little gravy beef will do, or a little 
of your soup ; season with a chopped onion, parsley, salt 
and pepper, and thicken with browned flour. Boil up ; 
add a glass of good wine and the juice of half a lemon. 
Pour upon the kidneys, and set in boiling water five min- 
utes. If kidneys are cooked too long they toughen. 

BAKED OMELETTE AUX FINES HERBES. 

7 e gg s ; i CU P f milk in which has been dissolved 
a quarter teaspoonful of corn-starch ; i tablespoonful 
minced herbs ; pepper and salt ; butter and onion. 

Beat the yolks very smooth, and whip in the milk ; 
then stir in the frothed whites. Put a tablespoonful of 
butter in a round, rather shallow bake-pan ; add the 
chopped herbs and a little finely minced onion. Set upon 
the upper grating of the oven until it begins to simmer. 
Pour in the omelette and bake quickly until high, and 
delicately browned. Run a sharp knife quickly around 
the edge and invert the dish upon a hot platter. Or, if 
your bake-dish is presentable, serve in it. Eat at once, 
as it soon falls. 

STRING-BEANS. 

Cut off both ends, and pare the strings from both sides. 
Cut into short pieces, and cook thirty minutes, or until 



502 SEPTEMBER. \% 

tender, in boiling salt water. Drain, season with pepper, 
salt and butter, and serve in a deep dish. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. 

Cook a cauliflower tied up in a net in boiling salt 
water, fifteen minutes. Drain, clip into small clusteis, 
and lay in a stone-china or block-tin dish. Pour a cup 
of drawn butter over it ; strew thickly with fine crumbs, 
and brown upon the upper grating of a brisk oven. 

SYLLABUB AND MAY'S CAKE. 

Whip a pint of cream to a stiff froth in your syllabub- 
churn, sweetening as you go on, with half a cup of pow- 
dered sugar. When it is a snowy mass upon the sieve 
upon which you have laid it as it rises, beat in a glass of 
wine. Set upon ice until wanted, then nil into glasses. 

MAY'S CAKE. 

Please consult "BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON AND TEA," 
page 338. 



Jfivst 

Ayrshire Broth. 

Chickens a la FranQaise. Succotash, 

Sweet Potatoes. Apple Sauce. 

Blackberry Shortcake, Hot. 

AYRSHIRE BROTH. 

Knuckle of veal well cracked about 4 Ibs. ; 3 onions ; 
A Ib. of lean ham ; 2 turnips ; bunch of parsley ; i scant 
cup of barley soaked two hours in a little milk. 

Put on meat, bones, and barley, and stew slowly in a 
gallon of water three hours. Then add the vegetables, 
cut into neat dice, parboiled, and left to cool. Cook 



&IRST WEEK WEDNESDAY. 503 

gently one hour and a half. Strain without pressing. 
Pick out the meat and bones, and return to the soup-pot 
with three pints of broth. Add a quart of cold water; 
cook, covered, one hour more, and season well. Turn 
into a jar or bowl, and when cold, set on ice for to-mor- 
row's soup. Cool that meant for to-day ; skim, season, 
and put over the fire with the barley and vegetables. 
When it begins to boil, pour into the tureen. 

CHICKENS 1 LA FRANAISE. 

Boil, and then blanch a sweetbread by dropping it into 
cold water. Then chop, mix with the pounded boiled 
livers of the chickens, and one-sixth as much bread-crumbs 
as you have meat. Season. Have ready, cleaned and 
washed, a pair of nice chickens. Fill with this force-meat. 
Cover the breasts and sides with thin slice? of fat salt 
pork; put into a dripping-pan ; pour about them a large 
cupful of boiling water, and roast basting often one 
hour. Take off the pork ; lay it in the gravy, and dredge 
the fowls with flour. As this browns, baste well, with 
butter once, three times with gravy. Take up and keep 
hot while you strain ; cool, skim and thicken the gravy. 
Have ready cooked a cup of rice measured when raw 
which has been boiled in the water used for cooking the. 
sweetbread and livers, then seasoned. Make a broad, 
flat-topped mound of it upon a dish ; lay the chickens on 
it, and pour a little of the gravy over them. Serve the 
rest in a boat. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Cut the corn from eight or ten cobs ; mix this with one 
third the quantity of Lima beans, and cook one hour in 
just enough water to cover them. Drain off most of the 
water ; add a cupful of milk, with a pinch of soda stirred 
in. When this boils, stir in a great spoonful of butter 
rolled in flour ; season with pepper and salt, and simmer 
ton minutes longer. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Select those of uniform size ; parboil them, with the 
skins on. Peel and lay in a baking-pan. Bake until soft 



504 SEPTEMBER. 

to the grasp, glazing with butter just before you take 
them up. 

APPLE SAUCE. 

Peel and slice juicy tart apples, and stew with just enough 
water to keep them from burning, until broken to pieces. 
Stir deeply and well, often. Beat a good lump of butter 
into them while hot, sweeten abundantly, and season with 
nutmeg. Mash and beat all the lumps to smoothness, or 
take them out. 

BLACKBERRY SHORTCAKE HOT. 

2 quarts of sifted flour ; 3 tablespoonfuls of butter, and 
2 of lard : 2^ cups of buttermilk, or sour, thick milk ; 
yolks of 2 eggs, beaten light ; i teaspoonful of soda, dis- 
solved in hot water, and the same quantity of salt. 

Rub the shortening into the salted flour. Add beaten 
yolks and soda to the milk, and make out the paste 
quickly. Roll into two sheets that intended for the 
tipper crust half an inch thick, the lower, rather thinner. 
Lay the batter in a well greased baking-pan ; cover thickly 
with the berries ; sugar them ; put on the top crust, and 
bake about twenty-five minutes to a nice brown. Cut 
into squares and eat splitting these open with sugar and 
butter. 



Jtrst iUtek. STljursban. 

Tomato Soup. 
Boiled Leg of Mutton with Caper Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes 
Stewed Egg-plant. Lima Beans. 

Peach Fritters. 



TOMATO SOUP. 

Peel and slice twelve large tomatoes, and stew twenty 
minutes. Rub through i colander to a pulp ; season this 



FIRST WEEK THURSDA Y. 505 

with pepper, salt, and sugar. Take the fat from the top 
of your cold soup-stock, and put the latter over the fire. 
Simmer half an hour ; strain out meat and bones. Boil 
and skim three minutes, and add the tomato sauce. 
Cook gently ten minutes ; stir in a tablespoonful (even; 
of corn-starch wet with cold water. Boil up and pour out. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Cook in plenty of hot salted water, allowing twelve 
minutes to the pound. Take out when done, wipe care- 
fully ; dish, and rub all over with butter. Serve with 
caper sauce. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Take a cupful of the liquor in which the meat has 
been boiled. Put on in a saucepan ; boil and skim for a 
moment ; stir in two tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed into 
a heaping teaspoonful of flour. Stir over the fire five 
minutes, add the juice of a lemon, pepper, and two dozen 
pickled capers or, if you have not these, pickled nastur- 
tium seed. Send to table in a boat. Save the rest of the 
pot-liquor for soup. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Prepare as usual, whipping light with a fork, and heap- 
ing upon a hot dish. 

STEWED EGG-PLANT. 

Soak and stuff as directed on Thursday, Fourth Week 
in August, but instead of baking it, put on in a cupful of 
your soup-stock, and stew, closely covered, one hour, or 
until very tender. Take up and keep hot in a deep dish. 
Stir a lump of butter rolled in flour into the gravy; boil 
up and pour over the egg-plant. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Shell, and cook about forty minutes in boiling, salted 
water. Drain, pepper, salt and stir in a good lump of 
butter when d.shed. 
22 



5O6 SEPTEMBER. 

/PEACH FRITTERS. 

i quart of flour ; i cup of milk ; J cup of yeast ; 2 
tablespoonfuls of sugar ; 4 eggs ; 2 lablespoonfuls of but- 
ter ; a little salt ; ripe, freestone peaches, pared and 
stoned. 

Sift the flour into a bowl ; work in milk and yeast, and 
let it rise five or six hours. Then, beat eggs and sugar 
light with butter, salt, and stir into the risen dough. Knead 
faithfully with your hands. Pull off bits nearly as large as 
an egg. Flatten and put in the centre of each a peach 
(pared), from which the stone has been slipped out through 
a slit in one side. Close the dough over it; make into a 
round ball, and lay upon a floured pan for the second rising. 
The balls must not touch each other. In an hour they 
should be light. Fry as you would doughnuts, but more 
slowly. Drain in a colander, and eat hot with brandy- 
sauce. 



Jirst \33ttk. 



Fish Soup. 

Mutton Batter Pudding. Stewed Tomatoes and Corn. 

Cream Potatoes. Picklette. 



Apple Cake with Cream. 
Iced Coffee. 

FISH SOUP. 

2 quarts of broth ; 2 Ibs. of halibut, rock, or other 
white fish ; 2 onions ; salt and cayenne ; juice of half a 
lemon ; dripping for frying. 

Cut the fish into neat strips ; take out the bones. 
Remove the fat from the cold pot-liquor set by yesterday, 
put hi the fish-bones, and put on to stew down. Fry the 
sliced onions ; drain from the fat .; lay in the bottom of 
your soup-pot ; put the fish upon them ; put in a little 
broth, and simmer gently one hour. Take out the 



FIRST WEEK 1 FRIDAY. 57 

dredge each piece with flour, and return to the kettle. 
Cover with two quarts of the strained stock, and cook, 
slowly, half an hour. Add cayenne and lemon, and pour 
out. 

MUTTON BAITER PUDDING. 

2 cups of milk ; i large cupful of flour ; 2 eggs ; neat 
squares of cold mutton, freed from skin and fat ; pepper 
and salt ; some melted butter, heated with tomato catsup. 

Make a batter of the milk, eggs and flour. Lay the 
meat in the melted butter, pepper and salt ; butter a pud- 
ding-dish ; pour in a little of the batter; then add the 
meat soaked well in the butter; pour in the rest of the 
batter, and bake one hour in a steady oven. Serve at 
once. 

STEWED TOMATOES AND CORN. 

Pare and slice six large tomatoes and one small onion. 
Cut the corn from four cobs, mix up well together, and 
stew half an hour. Season with pepper, salt and butter, 
stew again ten minutes, and pour out. 

CREAM POTATOES. 

Pare and cut the potatoes into small squares or rounds. 
Cook twenty minutes in boiling water, a little salt. Turn 
this off ; add a cupful of milk ; and when this bubbles up 
a tablespoonful of butter with a teaspoonful of water wet 
up with cold milk, also, a little chopped parsley. Simmer 
five minutes and pour out. 

APPLE CAKE WITH CREAM. 

2 cups of powdered sugar ; 3 cups of prepared flour; 
J cup of corn-starch, wet with a little milk ; $ cup of but- 
ter creamed with the sugar ; cup of sweet milk ; the 
whites of six eggs, whipped stiff. 

Add the milk to the creamed butter and sugar ; the 
corn-starch, then the flour and whites alternately. Bake 
in jelly-cake tins. 

FILLING. 

3 tart, well-flavored apples, grated ; yolks of 2 beaten 
eggs ; i cup of sugar ; i lemon, juice, and half the grated 
rind. 



508 SEPTEMBER. 

Beat yolks, sugar, and lernon together. Grate the ap 
pies directly into this mixture. Put into a custard-ket- 
tle, with boiling water outside of it, and stir to a boil. 
When cold, put between the cakes. Eat fresh with 
'cream. 

ICED COFFEE. 

See Sunday of this Week. 



first Uleek. 

White Stock Soup. 

Mock Quails. . Kidney-Beans. 

Corn Fritters. Potatoes a la Lyonnaise 

Cabinet Pudding. 



WHITE STOCK SOUP. 

6 Ibs. knuckle of veal ; $ Ib. lean bacon ; 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter rubbed in i of flour ; 2 onions ; 2 
carrots ; 2 turnips \ 3 cloves stuck in an onion ; i blade 
of mace ; bunch of herbs ; 6 quarts of water ; pepper 
and salt ; i cup of boiling milk. 

Cut up the meat and crack the bones. Slice carrots, 
turnips, and one onion, leaving that with the cloves whole. 
Put on with mace, and all the herbs except the parsley, 
in two quarts of cold water. Bring to a slow boil ; 
take off the scum, as it rises, and at the end of an hour's 
stewing, add the rest of the cold water one gallon. 
Cover and cook steadily, always gently, four hours. 
Strain off the liquor, of which there should be about five 
quarts ; rub the vegetables through the colander, and 
pick out bones and meat. Season these highly, and put, 
as is your Saturday custom, into a wide-mouthed jar, or a 
large bowl. Add to them three quarts of stock, well 
salted, and, when cold, keep on ice. Cool to-day's stock ; 
remove the fat; season, put in chopped parsley,. and put 
over the fire Heat in a saucepan a cup of milk, stir in 



FIRST WEEK: s A TURD A Y. 509 

the floured butter ; cook three minutes. When the soup 
has simmered ten minutes after the last boil, and been 
carefully skimmed, pour into the tureen, and stir in the 
hot, thickened milk. 

MOCK QUAILS. 

Cut slices about four inches square, and half an inch 
thick, from a leg of veal; flatten with the side of a 
hatchet, and clip in beaten egg. Make a force-meat of a 
cold boiled* sweetbread, chopped fine, a little minced fat 
pork or ham, a few oysters, also "minced, and a seasoning 
of pepper, cloves, nutmeg, and a pinch of grated lemon- 
peel. Wet with oyster-liquor, and the juice of half a 
lemon. Spread the slices with this, and roll each up 
tightly. Bind with soft thread, and lay in a broad sauce- 
pan. Half cover with broth borrowed from your soup, 
cooled and skimmed. Cover and stew slowly nearly one 
hour. Make the remnants of the force-meat adding a 
few bread crumbs into small balls. Roll in flour and set 
in the oven until browned. Five minutes before you take 
up the meat, roll these in beaten yolk of egg, once and 
again, until thickly coated. Let them stand to cool while 
you take up the "quails." Lay them upon a hot dish ; 
clip and gently withdraw the threads. Strain the gravy ; 
add a little boiling water ; thicken with browned flour ; 
stir in a spoonful of butter, and when it boils, drop in 
the " quail eggs." Simmer just one minute, and pour 
over the meat. 

KIDNEY-BEANS. 

Shell; cook in boiling salted water thirty minutes, or 
until tender ; drain, dish, and season with pepper, butter 
and salt. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

2 cups of grated corn ; 2 eggs ; i cup of milk ; flour 
for thin batter ; a pinch of soda ; salt ; i tablespoonful 
melted butter. 

Mix and fry as you would griddle-cakes. 
POTATOES A LA LYONNAISE. 

Parboil and chop some potatoes ; heat a little good 
dripping or butter in a frying-pan. Stir in half a minced 



5IO SEPTEMBER. 

onion, for every eight potatoes, with a teaspoonful ol 
chopped parsley. When they have cooked one minute, 
add the potatoes, and stir until all are tender, but not 
browned. Drain, pepper, salt and dish. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

2 cups of prepared flour ; 3 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
creamed with the sugar ; 5 eggs ; i cup of sugar ; lb, 
raisins, seeded, and cut in three pieces each ; cup f 
milk ; J lemon juice and grated peel. 

Add the beaten yolks to the creamed butter and sugar; 
then the milk and flour, alternately with the whites. Last- 
ly, stir in the fruit, dredged with flour ; pour into a but- 
tered mould, and boil two hours and a half. 

Eat hot with liquid sauce. 



Simian. 

Tapioca Soup. 

Roast Ducks. Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Cauliflower with Sauce Tartare. Sweet Potatoes. 

Melons, Peaches, and Pears. 
Black Coffee, Crackers and Cheese. 

TAPIOCA SOUP. 

Take the fat from your soup-stock. Dip out two quarts 
add one large cup of boiling water, and strain into the 
soup-kettle. Heat to a slow boil ; skim carefully ; add 
half a cup of grained tapioca, soaked two hours in a little 
cold water ; cook until this is clear ; put in what addition- 
al seasoning your taste demands, with a glass of wine, and 
a teaspoonful of celery essence, and pour out. 

ROAST DUCKS. 

Put sage and onion in the stuffing for one ; make that 
intended for 'the other, of bread-crumbs, seasoned with 



SECOND WEEK SUNDAY. 511 

pepper and salt, and wet up slightly with milk. Lay the 
ducks in the dripping-pan ; pour boiling water over them, 
and roast, basting often, until tender and brown. Dish ; 
take the fat from, the gravy ; season, thicken with browned 
flour and boil up. Serve in a gravy-boat. 

STUFFED TOMATOES 

Choose enough large, smooth tomatoes to fill a shallow 
pudding-dish. Cut a slice from the top of each, scoop 
out the inside. Chop the pulp with a little cold meat, 
taken from your soup, a sprinkling of minced onion, and 
the grated corn from two cobs. Season with pepper, salt 
and butter; fill the tomatoes, put on the top slices; fill 
the interstices with the force-meat, pour on a little gravy, 
cover and bake forty minutes then brown. 

CAULIFLOWER WITH SAUCE TARTARE. 

Boil a large cauliflower tied in netting in hot salted 
water, from twenty-five to thirty minutes. Drain ; serve 
in a deep dish with the flower upwards, and pour over it 
a cup of drawn butter, in which has been stirred the juice 
of a lemon, and a half teaspoonful of French mustard, 
mixed up well with the sauce. 

SWEET POTATOES. 
Please see Wednesday of First Week in September. 

MELONS, PEACHES, AND PEARS. 

Serve the melons upon a flat dish ; the other fruit in 
baskets, or upon fruit-stands, garnished with leaves. 

BLACK COFFEE, CRACKERS AND CHEESE. 

Pass very strong hot coffee without cream, in small copt 
of clear china, and fancy crackers with grated cheese. " 



512 SEPTEMBER. 



Second Jeek. ittonlrag. 

Vegetable Consomme. 

Stewed Lamb a la Jardiniere. French Beans, Sautes, 

Mashed Potatoes au Gratin. Currant Jelly. 



Peaches, Cream, and Cake. 

VEGETABLE CONSOMME". 

Cut into thin, short strips, i carrot, i turnip, and i 
onion ; peel and slice 6 fine tomatoes ; corn cut from 
2 cobs ; \ cup boiled rice ; 3 pints of soup-stock ; i pint 
of boiling water ; seasoning at discretion. 

.Boil the vegetables tender in a little hot salted water. 
Drain, butter, and keep them hot. The tomatoes and cor.n 
should be stewed in another vessel, twenty-five minutes, 
and seasoned. Add to your soup-stock a pint of boiling 
water, and simmer half an hour, then strain. Return lo 
the fire with the cooked vegetables and the boiled rice. 
Stew gently ten minutes and turn out. 

STEWED LAMB A LA JARDINIERE. 
Lay a breast of lamb, or two scrags, in a broad pot, 
meat downward. Scatter over this a sliced turnip, a sliced 
onion, and two sliced tomatoes, with a little pepper and 
salt. Add less than a cupful of broth from your soup ; 
cover, and cook slowly one hour. Turn the meat -then, 
and cook one hour longer, very slowly. When tender, 
but not ragged, dish, and keep hot. Strain the gravy; 
thicken with browned flour ; season ; boil up, and pour 
over the meat. 

FRENCH BEANS SAUTES. 

Cut off the fibres from both sides of the (string) beans, 
and clip into short pieces. Boil tender in hot salted 
water ; drain dry, and put into a saucepan in which you have 
melted a great spoonful of butter, seasoned with pepper, 
a little French mustard, and a tablespoonful of vinegar. 
Toss and stir until the beans are very hot, and glazed with 
the butter. Serve in a deep dish. 



SECOND WEEK-TUESDAY. 5*3 

MASHED POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Mash in t.ie customary manner, and heap upon a greased 
pie-dish. Strew thickly with dry crumbs, and brown upon 
the upper grating of the oven. Slip carefully to a* hot, 
flat dish. 

PEACHES, CREAM, AND CAKE. 

See Monday of First Week in September. 



Second 

Beef Gravy Soup. 

Pate de Foie de Veau. Stuffed Squash. 

Succotash. Baked Potatoes. 



Baked Blackberry Pudding. 



BEEF GRAVY SOUP. 

4 Ibs. of lean, coarse beef, cut into strips ; 2 Ibs. mut- 
ton or beef bones, broken small ; 2 onions, sliced and 
fried; bunch of sweet herbs; 3 carrots; 2 turnips; 5 
quarts of cold water ; pepper and salt ; dripping. 

Fry the meat and onions in the dripping to a light 
brown. Put on in two quarts of water, and having cooked 
one hour, add the other vegetables chopped, and the 
remaining three quarts of water, cold. Boil slowly four 
hours, skimming often. Strain, pulping the vegetables. 
Put meat and bones into the stock-pot, season well ; divide 
the broth into two portions ; salt one, and pour into the 
stock-pot. When cold, set on ice for to-morrow. Cool 
and skim the rest ; heat and skim until quite clear. Put 
dice of. fried bread into the tureen. 

PAT DE FOIE DE VEAU. 

3 Ibs. of calf s liver parboiled and cold ; -J- Ib. of cold 
cooked ham ; 3 eggs ; i tablespoonful of butter, and same 



514 SEPTEMBER. 

of fine crumbs ; i scant cup of rriilk ; a little minced onion 
and parsley ; nutmeg, cayenne, and a pinch of grated 
lemon-peel ; some good pie-paste. 

Mince the ham, and pound the boiled liver. Make into 
a sort of paste with the butter, beaten eggs, bread-crumbs, 
milk, and seasoning. It should be just soft enough to 
pour. Butter a bake-dish profusely ; line with a good 
paste, rolled out thicker than for most pies. Fill this with 
the liver mixture ; cover with crust, which must not over- 
lap the edge of the dish, but be pinched down firmly upon 
the lower crust ; set in a pan, containing a cupful of boil- 
ing water, just enough to keep the bottom crust from 
burning, and bake one hour and a quarter in a moderate 
oven. Pass a knife around the edges of the crust to de- 
tach the pate ; invert upon a deep dish. Pass with it 
drawn butter in which have been beaten two raw eggs, and 
these thickened by two minutes' boiling. 

STUFFED SQUASH. 

Pare a " turban " squash, and cut off a slice from the 
top. Extract the seeds, and lay one hour in salt water. 
Then fill with a good stuffing of crumbs, chopped fat salt 
pork, parsley, etc., wet with gravy. Put on the top slice ; 
set the squash in a pudding-dish. Put a few spoonfuls 
of melted butter and twice as much hot water in the bot- 
tom ; cover the dish very closely, and set in the oven two 
hours, or until tender. Lay within a deep dish, and pour 
the gravy over it. 

SUCCOTASH. 

See Wednesday, First Week in September. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Wash, wipe, and lay in a moderate oven. Bake until 
soft, to the gras#. Send to table in their skins, wrapped 
in a napkin. 

BAKED BLACKBERRY PUDDING. 

i pint of milk ; 2 eggs ; i quart flour, or enough for 
thick batter ; i gill bakers' yeast ; i saltspoonful of salt ; 
fc,teaspoonful of soda dissolved in boiling water; nearly a 
quart of berries, dredged with flour. 



SE COND WEEK WEDNESDA Y. 5 1 5 

Make the batter and let it rise in a warm place four 
hours. When very light, stir in the dredged fruit lightly 
and quickly ; pour into a buttered dish and bake one hour, 
covering with white paper should it "crust" over too fast 
Turn out, and eat with sweet sauce. 



jSeconir tUeek. 



Soup a la Bonne Femme. 

Roast Tenderloin of Beef. Beets Saute&. 

Lima Beans. Fried Bfcg-plant. 



Velvet Blane-Mange. 

' 

SOUP A LA BONNE FEMME. 

3 Ibs. of lean veal ; Ib. lean ham ; 2 carrots, grated ; 
i chopped onion ; thyme and parsley ; i cup of chopped 
mushrooms ; pepper and salt ; i cup of milk ; floured 
butter ; 4 quarts water. 

Cut the meat small and put on with herbs and vegeta- 
bles in the water. Bring to a slow boil, and keep at this, 
taking off the scum as it rises, for three hours, or until x the 
liquid is reduced one-half. Strain, cool, skim, season and 
return to the fire with the chopped mushrooms. Stew 
slowly half an hour ; stir in a tablespoonful of butter cut 
up in one of flour. Boil two minutes and pour into the 
tureen. Add the boiling milk, and pour out. 

ROAST TENDERLOIN OF BEEF. 
See Sunday of First Week in September. 

BEETS SAUTES. 

Wash and cut off the tops, but do not touckihe roots 
with a knife. Boil one hour ; scrape and slice them, and 
stew ten minutes in a little butter, mixed with pepper, and 
a good spoonful of vinegar. Toss and stir lest they should 
brown. 




SEPTEMBER. 

; LIMA BEANS. 
See Thursday, First Week in September. 

FRIED EGG-PLANT. 
See Sunday, First Week in September. 

VELVET BLANC-MANGE. 

i pint sweet cream, whipped stiff; package Cooper's 
gelatine soaked in 2 cups of cold water ; 2 glasses white 
wine ; juice of one large lemon ; bitter almond flavoring ; 
i cup sugar. 

ut sugar, soaked gelatine, lemon and wine into a cov- 
vessel for one hour. Stir well, and set the covered 
a* or bowl into a saucepan of boiling water until the 
:? atine is dissolved. Strain and cool before flavoring 
,: When it begins to congeal, beat gradually into the 
whipped cream. Put into a wet mould, and bury in the 
ice until wanted. Pass cake with it. 






Seconb Vittk. 

Egg Soup. 
nl; Smothered Chickens with Mushrooms. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 
Scalloped Cauliflower. Beet-root Salad. 

Peaches and Cream. 



EGG SOUP. 

i quart of broth in which the feet and giblets of the 
chickens have been boiled ; all that you have left of yes- 
terday's soup, strained ; 4 beaten eggs ; parsley, salt and 
pepper ; dice of stale bread. 

Cool and skim the quart of water in which have been 
boiled for one hour the cleaned feet and giblets of your 
chickens. :(Salt the giblets and put them in the refrigera- 
tor.) Set this broth over the fire, and season. When it 
boils, take it off, pour it upon the beaten eggs; put all 
into a jar and set in boiling water, stirring until it thickensr 



SECOND WEEK THURSDAY. 5*7 

Heat in another saucepan the remains of yesterday's soup 
or, if you have none, a scant quantity of milk, thickened 
with floured butter ; pour into a tureen, add the egg- 
broth, and throw in a good handful of stale bread-dice. 
Stir well and serve. 

SMOTHERED CHICKENS WITH MUSHROOMS. 
Split a pair of young, full-grown chickens down the 
back. Lay them, breasts upward, in a dripping-pan ; 
pour over them a great cupful of boiling water in which 
have been melted two tablespoonfuls of butter. Invert 
another pan over them, covering closely, and cook in a 
steady oven until they are tender and of a mellow russet 
hue. An hour is generally sufficient. Baste very often, 
twice at the last with butter. Keep the fowls hot upon a 
chafing-dish while you add the rest of the can of mush- 
rooms opened yesterday each mushroom sliced into 
thirds to the gravy, with browned flour and pepper. 
Simmer ten minutes ; pour a little upon the chickens, the 
rest into a boat. 

SCALLOPED CAULIFLOWER. 

Small, and therefore cheap, cauliflowers will do for this 
purpose. Boil them in hot salted water twenty minutes. 
Drain, cool, and chop. Beat into them a couple of eggs, 
a spoonful of melted butter, a half cup of milk, and season. 
Pour into a buttered bake-dish ; cover with drawn butter, 
then with fine crumbs, and bake half an hour. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Loosen the skins with boiling water; peel, slice, and 
stew twenty minutes. Season wifli sugar, pepper, salt, 
a good piece of butter cut up in flour, and stew five min- 
utes more. 

BEET-ROOT SALAD. 

Arrange the cold beets left from yesterday in a salad- 
dish. Pour a little salad-oil over them, season with sifted 
sugar, salt, a little cayenne, and vinegar at discretion. 

PEACHES AND CREAM. 
See Monday of First Week in September. 



SEPTEMBER. 



Bmmtr iDeek. Jriirag. 

Oberlin Soup. 

Cream Pickerel. Giblet Omelette. 

Mashed Potatoes. Boiled Corn. 

Cucumbers. 

Diplomatic Pudding. 

OBERLIN SOUP. 

% j onions ; 3 turnips ; 3 carrots ; \ cabbage ; bunch of 
herbs ; 8 tomatoes, sliced ; 3 tablespoonfuls of butter ; i 
teaspoonful of corn-starch ; pepper, sugar, and salt ; I 
cup of boiling milk ; 3 quarts of cold water. 

Chop the vegetables, and put all except the tomatoes 
and cabbage over the fire, with the water. Simmer one 
hour. Then add the cabbage, previously parboiled. Ten 
minutes later, put in the tomatoes and herbs. Stew rather 
fast for half an hour. Rub through a colander ; put over 
the fire ; stir in the butter and corn-starch. Cook five 
minutes ; season well. Let all stand together at the side 
of the range, covered, five minutes, and pour out. Stir 
in the boiling milk (with a pinch of soda in it) after the 
soup is in the tureen. 

CREAM PICKEREL. 

If you cannot get pickerel, pike, or salmon-trout, use 
rock-fish or bass for this dish. Clean the fish, and, if 
large, score the back-bone in several places. Bake slowly, 
pouring a cup of boiling water over him at first, afterward 
basting often wkh butter and water. When done, lay 
upon a hot-water dish ; add to the gravy in the dripping- 
pan a cup of milk (with a pinch of soda stirred in), and, 
when this heats, stir in two tablespoonfuls of butter, one 
teaspoonful of corn-starch, wet in water, and a little 
chopped parsley. Boil up once, to thicken, add pepper 
and salt to taste, and pour over the fish. 



SECOND WEEK FRIDAY. 5*9 

GIBLET OMELETTE. 

7 e gg s ') 2 tablespoonfuls of cream ; yesterday's giblets, 
chopped very fine and seasoned; i good spoonful of 
butter. 

Beat yolks and whites together ; then add the cream. 
Heat the butter in the frying-pan ; put in the giblets ; 
shake hard for a moment,' and pour in the eggs. Keep 
them free from the bottom by shaking, and loosening with 
a cake-turner ; and, when quite "set," fold in -the middle. 
Invert a hot dish over the pan, turn out, and serve at once. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Mash soft, heap upon a hot dish, and serve without- 
browning. 

BOILED CORN. 

See Sunday, First Week in September. 

CUCUMBERS. 

Pare ; lay in ice-water an hour ; slice, and dish, with 
pounded ice strewed over and among them. Pass condi- 
ments with them. 

DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. 

i quart of milk ; 4 eggs ; T cup very fine bread-crumbs ; 
i tablespoonful of corn-starch, wet with cold milk ; Ib. 
of currants, washed, dried, and dredged ; i cup of sugar. 

Soak the bread-crumbs in the milk, setting the vessel 
containing them in one of hot water, and heating milk 
and crumbs to scalding. Pour upon the beaten eggs and 
sugar ; add corn-starch ; lastly, the dredged currants. 
Pour into a buttered mould, and boil an hour and a quar- 
ter. Turn out, and pour a cup of hot custard over it foi 
sauce, flavored with vanilla, or other essence. 



52O SEPTEMBER. 

Second tDttk. Saturimg. 



Mutton Noodle Soup. 
Baked Sheep's Head a la Russe. Sweet Potatoes. 

Squash. Tomatoes Stuffed with Corn, 

Cream Peach Pie. 



MUTTON NOODLE SOUP. 

i perfectly clean sheep's head, cleaned with the skin 
left on ; 3 Ibs. scrag of mutton, broken to pieces ; 2 
onions ; 2 carrots ; bunch of herbs ; pepper and salt ; a 
large handful of noodles (see Receipt, Wednesday, First 
Week in August) ; 7 quarts water. 

Slice the vegetables, put with the head and scrag into 
a soup-kettle, add four quarts of water, and simmer two 
hours, or until the sheep's head is so tender that the 
bones will slip out. Skim well, pour in three quarts of 
cold water, and after three minutes take out the head 
carefully. Lay in a greased bake-dish ; as carefully, pull 
out the bones through the under side, and put these back 
into the soup-kettle. Add the vegetables and herbs ; 
bring again to a slow boil, and cook three hours longer. 
Take out meat and bones ; salt highly ; put into your 
stock-jar, and pour half the broth over them. Season 
this also, and put by for another day. Rub the vegetables 
through the sieve into the broth left for to-day. Cool, 
skim ; season, and set over the fire. Boil and skim for two 
minutes ; add the noodles ; simmer twenty minutes, and 
pour out. 

BAKED SHEEP'S HEAD i LA RUSSE. 

Let the boiled and boned sheep's head get cold in the 
bake-dish. Then brush over with raw egg, and sift over 
it a mixture of fine crumbs, a dust of flour and seme 
minced parsley (dried and powdered is better), seasoned 
with pepper and salt. Set in the oven ; baste well with 
butter, as it browns. Serve in the dish, and send \\ ith it 



SECOND WEEK SATURDAY. $21 

a boat of drawn butter, based upon a cupful of the soup 
and seasoned with French mustard, the juice of half a 
lemon, and some onion pickle minced very fine. 

SWEET POTATOES. 
See Wednesday of First Week in September. 

SQUASH. 

Pare, slice, cook soft in boiling salt water. Drain and 
mash smooth in a hot colander. Season with butter, salt, 
and pepper. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH CORN. 

Set large, smooth tomatoes in a greased pudding-dish. 
Cut a slice from the top of each. Scoop out the seeds, 
leaving the walls thickly lined with pulp. Have ready a 
cupful of corn grated from the cob, and seasoned with 
butter, pepper, and salt. Fill the tomatoes with this ; 
put on the upper slices, and pour a little gravy over all. 
Bake, covered, in a moderate oven, one hour. Serve in 
the dish. 

CREAM PEACH PIE. 

Make as directed in Saturday, Fourth Week in August ; 
but lay the upper crust on lightly, slightly buttering the 
lower at the point of contact. When the pie is done, 
lift the cover and pour in a cream made thus : i cup 
(small) of rich milk, heated ; whites of 2 eggs, whipped 
and stirred into the milk ; i tablespoonful of sugar ; J tea- 
spoonful of corn-starch wet up in milk. Boil three min- 
utes. The cream must be cold when it goes into the hot 
pie. Replace the crust, and set by to cool. Eat fresh. 



522 SEPTEMBER. 

STIjirir 

Rice and Tomato Soup. 

Boiled Chickens and Tongue. Breaded Egg-plant 

Boiled Cauliflower. Lima Beans. 

Frozen Custard and Cake. 



RICE AND TOMATO SOUP. 

Skim the soup in your stock-pot. Strain from the meat 
and bones ; heat and add a pint of tomatoes, stewed, 
strained, and seasoned, and a cup of boiled rice with 
the cup of water in which it has been cooked. Season tc 
taste ; simmer fifteen or twenty minutes after it begins to 
boil, and turn out. 

BOILED CHICKENS AND TONGUE. 

Tie the stuffed and trussed chickens in netting, fitted 
to their shape, and cook in plenty of boiling water, a little 
salt. An hour and a quarter should suffice, if the fowls 
are tender. Soak a tongue over night. In the morning, 
wash it well and boil eighteen minutes to the pound. 
Trim and skin it. Lay in the middle of the dish, with a 
chicken on each side, and pour over them drawn butter, 
based upon a cupful of the liquor in which the chickens 
were boiled, mixed with a little minced parsley. Save 
the rest of the liquor. 

BREADED EGG-PLANT. 

Slice, and pare each slice. Lay in salt and water one 
hour, with a plate on top, to keep the slices under water. 
Wipe dry ; salt and pepper ; dip in beaten egg, then in 
cracker-dust, and fry to a fine brown in lard or dripping. 
Drain, and serve. 

BOILED CAULIFLOWER. 

Cook in boiling salted water twenty-five minutes, hav- 
ing tied the cauliflower up in white netting. Drain ; im- 



THIRD WEEK MONDAY. $ 2 3 

tie ; lay in a deep dish, the blossom upward, and deluge 
with a white sauce made of drawn butter, with the juice 
of a lemon squeezed in. 

LIMA BEANS. 
See Thursday, First Week in September. 

FROZEN CUSTARD AND CAKE. 
Please refer to Sunday, Second Week in July. 



llhck. 

Chicken and Corn Soup. 
C sisserole of Rice, Chicken, and Tongue. 

Onions Stewed Brown, 
Baked Sweet Potatoes. Cold Slaw. 



Corn-starch Hasty Pudding. 
Tea and Fancy Crackers. 

CHICKEN AND CORN SOUP. 

Skim the liquor in which the chickens were boiled yes- 
terday. Put over the fire, with the grated corn from 
twelve ears. Boil one hour ; rub through a colander ; 
season, heat, and stir in a tablespoonful of butter rolled 
in flour, a little finely cut parsley, and a teaspoonful es- 
sence of celery. Simmer five minutes ; add a cup of 
boiling milk, and pour out. 

CASSEROLE OF RICE, WITH CHICKENS AND TONGUE. 

Chop the remains of yesterday's chickens and tongue 
fine, with the giblets. Season, and put over the fire, with 
a cup of yesterday's soup, and, when almost on the boil, 
add two beaten eggs. Boil a cup of rice in a little of the 
chicken-liquor used for your soup, until the rice is soft, 
and the liquor absorbed. Beat two eggs into half a cup of 



524 SEPTEMBER. 

milk, in which a tablespoonful of butter has been melted. 
Stir and beat this into the rice. Let it get cold, and then 
line a greased mould with it one with a cylinder in the 
middle will not do. Make the walls of rice-paste an inch 
thick ; then fill with the mince, which should not be too 
soft. Cover with the rice ; put the top on the mould ; 
set in a pot of boiling water, and cook one hour and a 
half. Turn out with great care, and pour a little of the 
pot-liquor, thickened and seasoned, over it. 

ONIONS STEWED BROWN. 

Top and tail them ; skin, and dredge them with flour. 
Then fry to a good brown in dripping. Put into a pot, 
cover with a little of the liquor in which the tongue was 
boiled, and stew slowly two hours, or until tender. Take 
up the onions ; thicken the sauce with browned flour, add 
a tablespoonful of butter, with pepper ; boil up, and pour 
over the onions. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash, wipe, and lay in a moderate oven. Bake until 
the largest is soft between your testing fingers. Wipe off, 
and serve in their jackets. 

COLD SLAW. 

Shred the heart of a firm white cabbage. Put into a 
salad-bowl, and season with sugar, salt, pepper, oil, and 
vinegar. Stir up and toss thoroughly. 

CORN-STARCH HASTY PUDDING. 

i quart fresh milk ; 3 tablespoonfuls corn-starch, wet 
up in cold milk ; i tablespoonful of butter ; i teaspoonful 
of salt. 

Scald and salt the milk, and stir into it the corn-starch. 
Boil steadily, stirring now and then, for fifteen minutes. 
Add the butter; let the pudding stand in hot water, un- 
covered, after you have ceased to stir, until you are ready 
for it ; then serve in an open, deep dish. Eat with cream 
and sugar. 



THIRD WEEK TUESDAY. $2$ 

TEA AND FANCY BISCUITS. 

If the weather be hot, have iced tea; if cool, and sug- 
gestive of early frosts, or equinoctial storms, introduce the 
bright tea-pot and pretty u cozy." 



St. Remo Broth. 

Beefsteak. Potatoes au Naturel. 

Kidney-Beans. Raw Tomatoes. 

Fruit Dessert. 
Coffee and Cake. 

ST. RMO BROTH. 

3 Ibs. of veal lean and cut into strips ; 2 onions, sliced 
and fried ; 3 quarts of water ; i tablespoonful of minced 
parsley ; % cupful of raw rice ; 2 tables poonfuls of grated 
cheese ; salt and pepper. 

Fry the onions in dripping ; put in the meat, and fry to 
a light brown. Put into the soup-pot with the water, and 
-boil slowly three hours, or until brought down to two 
quarts. The meat should be in rags. Strain ; cool, skim, 
and season. Put back into the kettle with the rice, which 
must have soaked one hour in a little water. This water, 
also, must go into the soup. Simmer half an hour. Put 
the grated cheese into the tureen, and when the rice has 
boiled soft, pour upon the cheese, stir up and serve. 

BEEFSTEAK. 

Flatten with the broad side of a hatchet, and broil 
quickly upon a greased gridiron. Ten minutes should be 
enough if you like it rare. Lay upon a hot dish, turn an- 
other over it, having salted, buttered, and peppered it, 
and let it stand five minutes before sending to table. 



526 SEPTEMBER. 

POTATOES AU NATUREL. 

Cook, without paring, in boiling salted water, until a 
fork will enter easily the largest. Pour off the water ; set 
the pot, uncovered, upon the range for a moment, to dry 
off the moisture ; peel rapidly, and dish. 

KIDNEY-BEANS. 

Shell ; cook in boiling water, a little salt, half an hour, 
or until tender. Drain, salt, pepper, and butter, and serve 
in a deep dish. 

RAW TOMATOES. 

Pare and slice. Put into a salad-dish, and pour over 
them a dressing made of two tablespoonfuls of oil rubbed 
with one teaspoonful of sugar, and half as much, each, of 
made mustard, salt, and pepper ; then with five table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, whipped in, a little at a time. 

FRUIT DESSERT. 

Use your own discretion and consult your own conve- 
nience in devising a tasteful and acceptable dessert of 
fruits, such as should now be plenty and cheap. Late 
peaches, melons, banarjas, pears, and apples, are, some or 
all of them, within reach of housekeepers of moderate 
means. Arrange in dishes or baskets decorated with 
green sprays and flowers. 

COFFEE AND CAKE. 

Consult, also, your discretion and the weather in the 
question of hot or iced coffee. 



THIRD WEEK WEDNESDAY. S 2 7 



tDeek. 

Ox-Cheek Soup. 

Stewed Calfs Hearts. Lima Beans, 

Potatoes au Maitre d'HStel. 
Stewed Tomatoes with Onion. 

Stewed Pears with Rice. 



OX-CHEEK SOUP. 

2 ox-cheeks ; 3 onions ; 2 carrots ; 2 turnips ; 12 whole 
black peppers ; 6 cloves ; salt ; 5 quarts of water ; -j- cup 
of German sago. 

Break the bones of the cheeks, and wash well with salt 
and water. Cover with cold water ; bring to a boil, and 
'throw off the water. Fry the sliced onions, and put into 
the pot with the meat, also the sliced carrots, onions, and 
spice. Cover with a gallon and a quart of water. Bring 
to a slow boil, and keep this up, skimming often, for four 
hours. Strain off the liquor ; pick out the meat and bones ; 
salt highly; put into your stock-pot with nearly half the 
broth. Set in a cold place for to-morrow. Pulp the vege- 
tables into that meant for to-day ; let it cool ; take off the 
fat, and put back over the fire. Season to your liking ; 
add the sago, which should have been soaking for two 
hours in a little water, and simmer until it is clear. 

STEWED CALF'S HEARTS. 

Wash two fresh calf's hearts ; stuff with a force-meat of 
crumbs, chopped salt pork, a little thyme, sage and onion. 
Tie up snugly in clean mosquito -netting ; put into a broad 
saucepan ; half cover with broth from your soup from yes- 
terday or to-day. Cover and stew an hour and three- 
quarters gently, turning several times. Take out the 
hearts, and keep them hot, while you thicken the gravy 
with a tablespoonful of butter cut up in flour. Boil up , 
add pepper, salt, a little grated lemon-peel, and the juice 
of half a lemon, with a small glass of wine. Pour ovsr 
the hearts. 



528 SEPTEMBER. 

.' LIMA BEANS. 
See Thursday, First Week in September. 

POTATOES AU MAiTRE D'H6TEL. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes rather thick. Have ready 
in a saucepan four or five tablespoonfuls of milk, a good 
lump of butter, with salt, pepper and minced parsley. 
Heat quickly ; put in the potatoes, and stir until almost 
boiling. Stir in a little flour, wet with cold milk ; cook a 
moment to thicken it; add the juice of half a lemon, and 
pour out into a deep dish. 

STEWED TOMATOES AND ONION. 

Peel, slice, and stew a dozen tomatoes ten minutes. 
Then add a small parboiled onion, cut up small ; cook 
twenty minutes ; stir in sugar, salt and pepper, with a good 
spoonful of butter rolled in flour. Simmer five minutes, 
and pour out. 

STEWED PEARS WITH RICE. 

Pare and halve eight large pears. Put into a sauce- 
pan with eight tablespoonfuls of sugar and a cup of claret 
or if you prefer, clear water. Stew slowly until tender 
and clear. Take out the pears and boil down the syrup 
to one-half, flavoring, then, with essence of bitter almond. 
Have ready two cupfuls of boiled rice, cooked in milk, 
and sweetened. Spread upon a flat dish ; lay the pears 
upon it, and pour on the syrup. Eat very cold. 



lUeek. 

Rissole Soup. 

Lamb Chops. Potato Mound. 

Fried Egg-Plant. Ladies' Cabbage. 

Damson Tart. 

RISSOLE SOUP. 

Take the fat from the top of your cold stock. Pick 
out some of the best pieces of meat about a cupful and 



THIRD WEEK THURSDAY. $2$ 

set aside. Add a pint of boiling water to the stock, and 
boil slowly, with the bones and the rest of the meat, for 
nearly an hour. Chop the meat reserved from the stock ; 
make into force-meat with fine crumbs, seasoning with 
onion, parsley, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and binding with 
beaten egg. Flour your hands and make this into round 
balls. Roll them in flour ; set in a floured pie-dish, not 
touching each other, and leave in a quick oven until 
crusted over. Let them cool. Strain your soup ; add 
such seasoning as you desire ; heat to a boil ; drop in the 
force-meat rissoles, and heat, without boiling, three min- 
utes. 

LAMB CHOPS. 

Trim off fat and skin, leaving a bare bit of bone at the 
end of each. Broil quickly over a clear fire ; butter, salt, 
and pepper each, and stand them on the larger ends, just 
touching each other, around your mound of potato. 

POTATO MOUND. 

Mash smooth, with butter, milk, salt, and pepper ; make 
into a smooth mound upon a hot dish, and arrange the 
chops around it. 

FRIED EGG-PLANT. 

See Sunday, First Week in September. 

LADIES' CABBAGE. 

Boil a firm cabbage in two waters. When done, quar- 
ter it and let it get perfectly cold. Chop fine ; add two 
beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of butter, pepper, salt, and 
three tablespoonfuls of milk. Stir all well ; pour into a 
buttered pudding-dish, and bake, covered, until very hot, 
then brown. If your dish has been well buttered, turn 
the cabbage upon a hot dish, and pour over it a cupful of 
drawn butter. 

DAMSON TART. 

Fill a pie-dish, lined with good paste, with ripe, sound 
damsons ; sweeten very plentifully ; cover with crust and 
bake. Brush with beaten egg when done, and return to 
the oven one moment, to glaze. 

23 



53 SEPTEMBER. 

Jrtirag. 



Potato Porridge. 

Devilled Crab. Roasted Sweetbreads. 

Potato Croquettes. Boiled Green Corn. 

Apple Souffle Pudding. 

POTATO PORRIDGE. 

12 potatoes, peeled and sliced; i large onion, also 
pared and sliced ; 2 quarts of boiling water ; i cup of 
hot milk ; 3 beaten eggs ; 3 tablespoonfuls of butter 
rolled in flour ; salt, pepper, and i teaspoonful celery 
essence ; chopped parsley. 

Fry potatoes and onions -light brown in a little butter. 
Put into a soup-pot with the boiling water, and cook 
gently until soft. Rub through a colander to a smooth 
puree. Add the water in which they were boiled, and 
return to the fire. When the puree begins to bubble, stir 
in the buttered flour, pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, 
and simmer five minutes. Heat the milk in another ves- 
sel ; pour upon the beaten eggs ; cook one minute, and 
pour into the tureen. Add the puree ; stir in the celery- 
essence, and it is ready. 

DEVILLED CRABS. 

Boil the crabs ; cool ; break the shells and pick out the 
meat. To eight tablespoonfuls of meat, add three of 
fine crumbs, the yolks (chopped) of three boiled eggs, 
the juice of a lemon, with salt and cayenne to taste. 
Work up to a soft mixture with drawn butter ; fill scallop 
or clam shells, or pate- pans with it, sift cracker-dust over 
the top, and brown delicately in a quick oven. 

ROASTED SWEETBREADS. 

3 fine sweetbreads ; i cup of gravy a cup of your 
soup will do ; i beaten egg ; cracker-dust ; i tablespoon- 
ful mushroom catsup ; i small glass wine ; a very little 



THIRD WEEK FRIDAY. 531 

minced onio i put into the gravy ; 2 tablespoonfuls melted 
butter ; fried bread. 

Boil and blanch the sweetbreads. Wipe perfectly dry, 
roll in egg, then in the pounded cracker. Lay in a 
baking-pan ; pour the melted butter slowly over them, 
that it may soak into the crumbs. Set in the oven, cover, 
and bake forty-five minutes, basting freely, from the time 
they begin to brown, with the gravy. Dish upon crustless 
slices of fried bread. Strain the gravy ; add catsup and 
wine ; boil up, and pour over the sweetbreads. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Mash the potatoes, and beat in a raw egg, butter, rnilk, 
nutmeg, a little grated lemon-peel, with pepper and salt. 
Heat in a saucepan, stirring constantly, for three minutes. 
The saucepan should be buttered first. When cool 
enough to handle with comfort, make into croquettes, roll 
in flour, or dip in egg and cracker-crumbs, and fry not 
putting too many into the pan at once in boiling lard, or 
dripping. Drain in a hot colander, and serve. 

BOILED GREEN CORN. 
See Sunday, First Week in September. 

APPL.E SOUFFL^ PUDDING. 

7 or 8 juicy apples ; 4 eggs ; i cup fine crumbs ; i cup 
of sugar ; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter ; nutmeg, and a lit- 
tle grated lemon-peel. 

Pare, core, and slice the apples, and cook tender in a 
covered farina-kettle without adding water to them. Beat 
to a smooth pulp, and stir in butter, sugar, and seasoning. 
When cold, whip in the yolks of the eggs ; then the 
frothed whites, alternately with the crumbs. Beat to a 
creamy batter; put into a buttered pudding-dish, and 
bake, covered, fifty minutes. Then brown quickly. Eat 
hot with custard sauce, or cold, with cream and sugar. 



53* ' SEPTEMBER. 



irit ifleek. 



Rule of Three Soup. 

Veal and Ham Cutlets a la Polonaise. Stewed Potatoes 
Cream Squash. Scalloped Tomatoes. 



Bavarian Cream. 

RULE OF THREE SOUP. 

3 Ibs. of lean beef; 3 Ibs. of marrowbones; 3 Ibs. 
coarse mutton ; 3 onions ; 3 carrots ; 3 turnips ; 3 sprigs 
of parsley, and same of thyme and marjoram ; 6 quarts 
of water ; 3 blades of mace ; 3 tomatoes ; 3 ears of 
corn ; 3 tablespoonfuls of rice ; pepper and salt. 

Chop the vegetables ; cut up the meat and crack the 
bones. Put onions, carrots, turnips, herbs and mace into 
the soup-pot ; cover with three quarts of water ; stew 
gently three hours ; strain off the broth into a bowl ; pour 
the remaining three quarts of water, boiling hot, upon the 
meat, bones, and vegetables in the pot, and put back 
over the fire. Cool that which you have strained ; take 
off the fat, and put on in another kettle, with the toma- 
toes, the corn cut from the cob, and the rice. Season, 
and cook gently for another hour, then pour out. 

Boil the soup left in the pot, three hours longer at the* 
back of the range; add boiling water as the liquid 
shrinks. At the end of that time, season well ; pour, 
without straining, into the stock-pot, and keep in a cold 
place. You have now stock for three days a good 
investment of time, materials, and labor. 

VEAL AND HAM CUTLETS, A LA POLONAISE. 
Slice cutlets of veal, of equal size, with as many slices 
of corned ham, previously cooked. Flatten the cutlets 
with a hatchet ; dip in beaten egg, then in cracker-dust, 
mixed with minced parsley, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. 
Fry in dripping ; drain, and lay upon a dish, with alternate 
slices of the ham, broiled, and spread with a dressing of 
butter and a little French mustard. 



THIRD WEEK SATURDAY. 533 

STEWED POTATOES. 

Pare, and cut the potatoes into dice. Stew, with a 
small onion, in enough hot water to cover them. Turn 
off most of the water; take out the onion ; pour in a cup 
of cold milk, and, when this boils, stir in a little chopped 
parsley, pepper, salt, and a tablespoonful of butter rolled 
in ilour. Boil up once, and serve. 

CREAM SQUASH. 

Mash, and press in a hot colander. Return to the fire, 
with a good spoonful of butter, three or four spoonfuls of 
milk, and a quarter spoonful of flour, wet up in the milk. 
Stir for five minutes ; season with pepper and salt, and 
dish. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Pare and slice. Scatter fine crumbs in the bottom of 
a bake-dish ; cover with slices of tomatoes, seasoned with 
sugar, pepper, salt, and butter. Cover with crumbs, and 
these with tomatoes. Fill the dish in this order, covering 
all with crambs, with bits of butter sprinkled upon them. 
Bake, covered, half an hour, and brown. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 

i pint rich milk, and the same of sweet cream ; yolks 
of 4 eggs ; oz. gelatine ; i small cup of sugar ; 2 tea- 
spoonfuls vanilla or other extract. 

Soak the gelatine two hours in enough cold water to 
cover it. Heat the milk, and stir in the gelatine until 
melted. Pour this upon the beaten yolks and sugar, and 
heat until it begins to thicken. It should not boil. Take 
from the fire, flavor, and let it cool somewhat. The 
cream should have been whipped stiff in a syllabub-churn. 
Beat, a spoonful at a time, into the lukewarm custard, 
until it "is like sponge-cake batter. Pour into a wet 
mould, and set on ice to form. It will be formed in a few 
hours, if buried in the ice. 



534 SEPTEMBER. 



Jimrtb tUeek. 

Fancy Macaroni Soup. 

Fricasseed Chicken. Spinach a la Creme. 

Devilled Tomatoes. Sweet Potatoes, Browned 

Baked Pears and Cream. 
Orange Cake. 



FANCY MACARONI SOUP. 

Take the fat from your soup-stock, add a pint of boil- 
ing water, and bring to a slow boil. Strain all through a 
colander. Pour off two quarts, through a soup-sieve, into 
your soup-kettle, and set over the fire to simmer clear. 
Pulp the vegetables left in the colander, and press the 
juice out of the meat into the rest of the broth. Remand 
this to the stock-pot. When that in the soup -kettle has 
boiled ten minutes, and been skimmed carefully, add a 
half cup of what is known as " fancy macaroni," cut into 
fantastic shapes, expressly for soups. It should have 
been boiled twenty minutes, or until tender, in hot 
salted water. Simmer one minute in the soup ; add sea- 
soning, if needed, and serve. 

FRICASSEED CHICKENS. 

Clean, wash, and joint a pair of chickens. (Salt the 
giblets slightly, and keep on ice until Monday ; or, should 
the weather be warm, boil them in a pint of water ; salt it 
well, and set away with the giblets in it.) Scald the 
pieces of chicken in boiling water, leaving them in it four 
minutes. Lay in ice-water ten minutes, to blanch them. 
Add to the quart of boiling water used for scalding them, 
the skimmed fat, the necks, and the heads, cleaned by 
scalding, picking off the feathers and cutting off the beaks. 
Stew for -one hour, or until there is but a pint of gravy. 
Strain, cool, and take off the fat. Put two tablespoonfuls 
of butter into a saucepan, with a very finely minced onion 
and a dessertspoonful of flour. When they begin to sim- 
mer, put in the joints of chicken ; turn several times ill 



FOURTH WEEK SUNDAY. 535 

the butter, and, after they begin to color, add enough 
gravy to keep them from scorching, and stew, covered, at 
least an hour. Keep the chicken hot ; strain the gravy ; 
add parsley, pepper, and salt. Have in another saucepan 
a half cup of hot milk. Pour upon two beaten eggs , 
make very hot, and add to the gravy when you have 
taken the latter from the fire. Stir up, and pour over the 
chickens. 

SPINACH A LA CRME. 

Boil in plenty of hot salted water ; drain, and chop fine 
upon a board or in a wooden tray. Return to the sauce- 
pan with a tablespoonful of butter, and when hot, add a 
little sugar, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and two tablespoonfuls 
of cream. Stir until very hot, a.nd serve in a deep dish, 
with sippets of fried bread laid over it. 

DEVILLED TOMATOES. 

i quart fine ripe tomatoes, pared and cut in thick slices ; 
yolks of 3 boiled eggs, pounded ; 3 tablespoonfuls melted 
butter ; 4 tablespoonfuls vinegar ; i raw egg, beaten light ; 
i teaspoonful powdered sugar; i saltspoonful salt, and 
same of made mustard ; a soupfon of cayenne. 

Rub a tablespoonful of butter into the pounded yolks ; 
add the seasoning, then the vinegar, and put into a tin or 
porcelain saucepan. Heat, and stir in the beaten egg. 
Set in boiling water while you heat the rest of the butter 
in a frying-pan, and put in the sliced tomatoes. Shake 
over the fire eight minutes, turning several times. Lay 
the tomatoes upon a hot dish. Strain the butter in which 
they were fried into the dressing, stir well, and pour over 
the tomatoes. 

SWEET POTATOES BROWNED. 

Parboil, peel, and lay in a baking-pan. Baste with a 
little of your soup stock, then with bufter, until they are 
baked to a nice brown. 

BAKED PEARS AND CREAM. 

Peel ripe pears, and cut them in half, without removing 
the seeds. Pack in layers in a stoneware jar. Strew 



536 , SEPTEMBER. 

each layer with sugar, and drop a pinch of nutmeg in, now 
and then. Put a small cupful of water in the bottom to 
prevent burning. Fit on a close cover, and set in a mod- 
erate oven. Bake three hours on Saturday, and leave, 
unopened, in the oven all night. Set upon ice for some 
hours before you use them. Pour into a glass dish, and 
eat with cream. They are delicious if the pears are of fair 
quality. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Please see " BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON, AND TEA," page 
318. 



-fourtl) tDttk. Ulontrag. 

Giblet Soup. 

Brown Beef Stew. Mashed Potatoes. 

Lima Beans. Cucumbers and Onion Salad. 

Bananas, Oranges, and Apples. 
Coffee and Albert Biscuit. 

GIBLET SOUP.- 

Again s-kim the contents of your stock-pot. Pour into 
the soup-kettle with the water in which the giblets were 
boiled. Add seasoning at discretion, and simmer, after the 
boil is reached, fifteen minutes. Chop the gizzards very 
fine, and put into the soup. Pound the livers to a paste, 
with a heaping tablespoonful of butter, and half as much 
flour ; thin with a little of the boiling soup ; stir into the 
soup ; boil one minute, and serve. 

BROWN BEEF STEW. 

3 Ibs. lean beef ; i onion ; a tablespoonful of powdered 
marjoram ; thyme and parsley, mixed ; i tablespoonful of 
browned flour ; i teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce ; i 
tablespoonful of tomato catsup ; i glass of wine ; juice of 
half a lemon, and a pinch of the peel ; i cup of chopped 
mushrooms ; dice of fried bread. 



FOURTH WEEK TUESDAY. 537 

Cut the beef into strips two inches long ; add the 
minced onion ; just cover with water, and cook, at the 
back of the range, two hours. Add the rest of the ingre- 
dients, with the exception of the flour, catsup, sauce, 
lemon-juice, and wine, and let it simmer one hour longer. 
Then add the condiments just named, and the flour. Boil 
up ; line a deep dish with small squares of fried bread, 
and pour the stew upon them. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Prepare as usual, and send up without browning. 

LIMA BEANS. 
See Thursday, First Week in September. 

CUCUMBER AND ONION SALAD. 
See Monday, First Week in September. 

BANANAS, ORANGES, AND APPLES. 

Rub clean ; arrange effectively as to color and size , 
put green leaves among them, and give a doily, clean 
plate, and fruit-knife to each person. 

COFFEE AND ALBERT BISCUIT. 

Have the coffee hot and strong, and be sure the biscuits 
are fresh. 



ttlcck. 

Quick Lobster Soup. 

Roast Lamb. Baked Squash. 

Green Corn cut from the Cob. Sweet Potatoes. 

' '. <x> .*;);.) .;. 'V 1 '- "^ ''' ' ' 

Rock-work. 

QUICK LOBSTER SOUP. 

i quart of stock, made by adding a little water to the 
strained remnant of yesterday's soup. Or, if you have 
23* 



SEPTEMBER. 

nothing of this sort, make a broth of coarse bits of veal 
and any bcnes you may have ; i can of preserved lob- 
ster ; i cup of milk, with a pinch of soda stirred in ; 2 
tablespoonfuls of butter, rolled in flour ; yolks of 2 eggs ; 
minced parsley, cayenne, and salt. 

Heat your broth ; skim and season. Put in the lob- 
ster, picked to pieces ; simmer ten minutes, then boil up 
sharply, once. Heat the milk in a saucepan ; stir in the 
floured butter ; pour upon the beaten yolks. Cook one 
minute. Pour the lobster into the tureen; stir in the 
thickened milk, and send to table. Pass oyster crackers 
and butter with it. 

ROAST LAMB. 

Lay in the dripping-pan. Dash boiling water over it, 
and cook fifteen minutes for each pound. Baste often 
with the gravy. Ten minutes before taking it up, dredge 
with flour, and baste with butter. Pour the fat from the 
top of the gravy ; thicken with browned flour, and stir in 
a tablespoonful of currant jelly. Boil, and send up in a 
boat salting and peppering to taste. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Boil, drain, and mash in a hot colander. Season with 
pepper, salt, and butter ; add a few spoonfuls of milk and 
two beaten eggs. Pour into a buttered dish, and bake to 
a light brown in a quick oven. 

GREEN CORN CUT FROM THE COB. 
Boil the corn until tender. Split each row of grains, 
then shave them close to the cob. Butter, pepper, and 
salt, and serve hot in a deep dish. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil with the skins on ; peel quickly, and lay in a bak- 
ing-pan, within a hot oven, a few minutes, to dry, before 
piling them upon a flat dish. 

ROCK-WORK. 

i quart of milk ; 5 eggs ; 6 tablespoonfuls of sugar ; 
/anilla, or other essence. 



FOURTH WEEK WEDNESDAY. 539 

Heat the milk : pour upon the beaten yolks and sugar. 
Cook until the custard begins to thicken. Pour out, and. 
when cold, flavor, and pour into a glass bowl. Whip the 
whites stiff with two spoonfuls of the sugar, flavor, and 
poach by laying, a spoonful at a time, upon boiling milk, 
and, carefully withdrawing the spoon from underneath, 
leaving the oval mass of meringue floating upon the sur- 
face. Turn it over when one side is done, and, presently, 
take it up, and lay upon the custard. Heap them irregu- 
larly on the top, and let all get cold before serving. Pass 
light cakes with this custard. 



-fourtl) 



Julienne Soup. 

Cold Lamb. Tomato Sauce. 

Eggs and Mushrooms. Breaded Egg-plant. 

_ 

Potato Fritters. 



JULIENNE SOUP. 

4 Ibs. of beef ; 2 carrots ; 3 turnips ; head of cab- 
bage ; i pint green corn ; i quart tomatoes ; bunch of 
herbs ; 4 quarts of water ; pepper and salt. 

Put on the beef, herbs, and water early in the morning, 
with some well-cracked bones, if you have them, and let 
it boil at the back of the range, very slowly, for five or six 
hours. Should the water sink below two-thirds of the 
original quantity, replenish from the boiling tea-kettle. 
An hour before dinner, strain the soup ; put meat and 
bones into the stock-pot, and season well. Pour upon 
them all that you can spare from the liquor, and leave 
enough for to-day. Set this in a cool place. Cool, and 
remove the fat from that meant for to-day ; return to the 
soup-kettle, and put in the vegetables, cut into shreds, 
and parboiled for ten minutes. The cabbage should have 



540 SEPTEMBER. 

been cooked in two waters. The corn must be cut from 
the cob, and the tomatoes pared and sliced. Simmer 
gently half an hour ; season ; cook one minute, and pour 
out. 

COLD LAMB. 

Trim the remains of your roast into a presentable 
shape ; garnish with parsley and nasturtium-blooms. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Pare, slice, and stew the tomatoes for twenty minutes. 
Strain, and rub through a colander, leaving the hard and 
tough parts behind. Put into a saucepan with a little 
minced onion, parsley, pepper, salt, and sugar. Bring to 
a boil ; stir in a good spoonful of butter rolled in flour. 
Boil up, and serve. 

*' .':,'.. f > * ' ** 

EGGS AND MUSHROOMS. 

Slice the rest of the can of mushrooms, opened for 
Monday's stew, into halves. Stew ten minutes in a little 
butter, seasoned with pepper and salt, and a very little 
water. Drain ; put the mushrooms into a pie- dish ; break 
enough eggs to cover them over the top ; pepper, salt, 
and scatter bits of butter over them \ strew with bread- 
crumbs, and bake until the eggs are " set." Serve in the 
dish. 

BREADED EGG-PLANT. 

Slice nearly half an inch thick ; pare each slice and lay 
in salt and water one hour. Wipe dry, dip in beaten egg, 
then in rolled cracker, and fry to a fine brown in salted 
lard or dripping. 

POTATO FRITTERS. 

6 tablespoonfuls mashed potato rubbed through a col- 
ander ; cup rich milk, or cream ; 5 eggs, beaten light ; 
2 tablespoonfuls sugar ; 2 tablespoonfuls prepared flour ; 
juice of i lemon, and half the grated peel ; % grated nut- 
meg. 

Work the cream into the potato ; add beaten yolks and 
sugar, and whip to a froth. Put in lemon, flour, nutmeg, 



FOURTH WEEK THURSDAY. 541 

and beat three minutes before stirring in the whites. 
Drop, by the spoonful, into hot sweet lard, and fry to a 
light brown. Drain upon clean, heated paper, sift white 
sugar thickly over them and serve at once. Eat if you 
like with wine sauce, or with powdered sugar only. 



Jimrtl) 

Bread-and-Meat Soup. 

Braised Breast of Veal. Cauliflower with Sauce. 

Stewed Squash. Fried Potatoes. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings. 

BREAD-AND-MEAT SOUP. 

Take the fat from the top of your cold stock. Add a 
pint of boiling water to it, with a sliced onion, and coolc 
slowly, with the meat in, for forty minutes. Strain, press- 
ing all the strength out of the meat ; stir in a tablespoon- 
ful of catsup, and as much browned flour wet up in cold 
water. Have ready a sweetbread, boiled and blanched, 
then cut into neat dice. Put these into the soup, and 
boil one minute ; add a great handful of fried bread, cut 
into dice, and pour out. If you have any soup left from 
your "Julienne," heat, strain, and add to this. 

BRAISED BREAST OF VEAL. 

Make a deep incision between the ribs and meat : stuff 
with a good force-meat made of crumbs, chopped salt pork, 
seasoning and a little onion. Skewer the flap of meat 
back into its place ; put a layer of thin fat salt pork into a 
broad saucepan ; lay the veal upon it. Pour in a cup of 
gravy from the soup, if you have no other cover with 
more fat pork, or ham, put on a close lid, and cook fifteen 
minutes to the pound. Take out the meat ; set in a very 
quick oven, dredge with flour, and, as it browns, baste 
well with butter once. Keep hot upon a dish, while you 



542 SEPTEMBER. 

strain the gravy in' the braising-pan ; thicken it with 
browned flour, season to taste, and stir in the juice of 
half a lemon, and a glass of claret. Boil up and pour a 
little upon the veal, the rest into a boat. 

CAULIFLOWER WITH SAUCE. 
See Sunday, Third Week in September. 

STEWED SQUASH. 

Pare, seed and quarter. Cook in boiling water salted, 
until soft. Mash in a colander ; rub through it, and put 
back into a saucepan, with a tablespooriful of butter 
rolled in flour ; a few teaspoonfuls of milk, pepper and 
salt to taste. Stir until it begins to bubble; then pour 
into a deep dish. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Pare, slice thin, and lay in ice-water half an hour. Dry 
between two towels, and fry to a pale brown in hot lard, 
a little salt. Drain by shaking in a colander, and serve 
in a dish lined with a napkin. 

BOILED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

i quart prepared flour ; J Ib. suet, powdered ; i tea- 
spoonful salt ; cold water to make a pretty stiff paste ; 
fine juicy apples, pared and cored. 

Make the paste ; roll into a sheet a quarter of an inch 
thick ; cut into squares ; put in the centre of each an 
apple ; bring the corners together, and pinch the edges. 
Have ready some small square cloths, dipped in hot 
water, and floured on the inside. Enclose each dumpling 
in one of these, leaving room to swell, and tie it up, bag- 
wise, with a stout string. Boil one hour ; turn out and 
serve with plenty of sweet sauce. 



FOURTH WEEK FRIDAY. 543 



Onion Soup Maigre. 

Baked Blue Fish. Imitation Oyster Scallops. 

Potato Puff a la Geneve. Raw Cucumbers. 

Cream Cakes. 

ONION SOUP MAIGRE. 

3 large onions, sliced ; 3 boiled potatoes rubbed through 
a colander ; 3 tablespoonfuls of rice boiled in i quart of 
milk ; 2 quarts of cold water ; 3 tablespoonfuls of butter 
rolled in one of flour ; chopped parsley ; pepper and 
salt to taste. 

Parboil the onions ten minutes ; throw off the water 
and let them cool. Then slice, and put over the fire 
with the cold water, and boil down to three pints. The 
onions should be reduced to a pulp. Strain ; rub through 
the colander, and set over the fire. When it boils, add 
the mashed potatoes, the butter, seasoning, parsley, and 
simmer ten minutes. Have the rice boiled soft in the milk 
with a pinch of soda ; strain it out and add to the soup 
in the kettle. Cook gently five minutes, and turn into 
the tureen. Pour in the boiling milk, and it is ready. 

BAKED BLUE FISH. 

Score the fish down the back, and lay in a dripping- 
pan. Pour over it a cup of hot water in which have been 
melted two tablespoonfuls of butter. Bake one hour, 
basting every ten minutes ; twice with butter, twice with 
the gravy, and again twice with butter. Take up the fish 
and keep hot, while you strain the gravy into a saucepan ; 
thicken with flour ; add a teaspoonful of anchovy paste, 
the juice of half a lemon with a little of the grated peel, 
pepper and salt. Boil up, pour half over the fish, the 
rest into a boat. Garnish the fish with eggs, quartered 
lengthwise, lettuce hearts, and quartered lemons. 

IMITATION OYSTER SCALLOPS. 

Cut the best pieces from your cold roast veal, in 
squares about an inch long and half as thick and wide* 



544 SEPTEMBER. 

Make a cup of ridr drawn butter, and put these into it. 
Set over the fire in a saucepan, and add a very little 
minced onion and parsley. Heat for ten minutes, but do 
not boil. Chop a pickled cucumber quite fine, stir into 
the mixture, season with salt and cayenne ; fill scallop, or 
clam shells, or /0/e-pans lined with baked paste, with the 
scallop ; cover with fine crumbs, and brown in a brisk 
oven. 

POTATO PUFF 1 LA GENEVE. 

Whip mashed potatoes light and soft with milk, butter, 
and two raw eggs ; season with pepper and salt, and beat 
in a few spoonfuls of powdered cheese. Pile upon a neat 
bake-dish, and brown nicely. Serve in the dish* 

RAW CUCUMBERS. 
See Friday, Second Week in September. 

CREAM CAKES. 

Some good puff-paste; whites of 2 eggs; \ cup cf 
sweet jelly ; i cup of cream, whipped to a froth ; 3 table, 
spoonfuls powdered sugar ; vanilla, or other flavoring. 

Roll out the paste as for pies. Cut into squares five 
inches across. Have ready well-greased muffin-rings, 
three inches in diameter. Lay one in the centre of each 
square ; turn up the four corners so as to make a cup of 
the paste ; pinch the tips upon the upper edge of the 
ring to keep it in place, and having prepared all, bake in 
a quick oven. When done, pull out the rings with care ; 
brush the paste, outside and in, with the white of egg, and 
set back to brown. When cold, wash on the inside with 
the jelly, and fill vith the whipped cream, sweetened and 
flavored. 



FOURTH WEEK SATURDAY. 545 



Jburtl) UJeek. 

Vegetable Soup a la Crecy. 

Glazed Ham. Lettuce Salad. 

Potatoes a la Lyonnaise. Cabbage au Gratin. 

Peach Pudding. 



VEGETABLE SOUP 1 LA CRE"CY. 

2 Ibs. of coarse, lean beef, cut into strips ; 2 Ibs. of 
knuckle of veal, chopped to pieces ; 2 Ibs. of mutton 
bones, and the bones left from your cold veal, cracked to 
splinters ; i Ib. of lean ham ; 4 large carrots ; 2 turnips ; 
2 onions ; bunch of herbs ; 3 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
and 2 of flour ; i tablespoonful of sugar ; salt and pep- 
per ; 7 quarts of water. 

Put on meat, bones, herbs and water, and cook slowly 
five hours. Strain the soup, of which there should be 
five quarts. Season meat and bones, and put into the 
'stock-pot with three quarts of the liquor. Save this for 
days to come. While the soup for to-day is cooling that 
you may take off the fat, put the butter into a frying-pan 
with the sliced carrots, turnips, and onions, and fry to a 
light brown. Now, add a pint of the skimmed stock, and 
stew the vegetables tender ; stir in the flour wet with 
water * and put all, with your cooled stock, over the fire 
in the soup-kettle. Season with sugar, cayenne and salt ; 
boil five minutes ; rub through a colander, then a soup- 
sieve, heat almost to boiling, and serve. 

GLAZED HAM. 

Soak and boil a ham twenty minutes to the pound, and 
let it get almost cold in the water. Skin it neatly, and 
coat with a paste made of a cup of cracker-crumbs, one 
of milk, two beaten eggs, and seasoned with pepper. Set 
the ham in the oven until the glazing is browned, moisten- 
ing, now and then, with a few spoonfuls of cream. Wind 
frilled paper about the shank, and garnish with parsley. 



546 SEPTEMBER. 

< 'LETTUCE SALAD. 

Pull out and tear to pieces the hearts of lettuce ; pile 
in a salad-bowl ; sprinkle with white sugar, and season 
with oil, pepper, salt, and vinegar, in the proportions so 
often given. Toss up with a silver fork. 

POTATOES A LA LYONNAISE. 
See Saturday, First Week in September. 

CABBAGE AU GRATIN. 

Quarter a small white cabbage, and boil tender in pot- 
liquor taken from your ham. Let it get cold ; chop and 
season with pepper, salt, a good spoonful of butter, three 
or four of milk, and beat smooth with two raw eggs. Put 
into a buttered dish ; strew thickly with crumbs ; wet 
these with pot -liquor, and bake, covered, forty -five min- 
utes, then brown. 

PEACH PUDDING. 

12 ripe peaches, pared, stoned, and stewed in a little 
water ; i cup bread-crumbs ; 2 cups of boiling milk ; 5 
tablespoonfuls of sugar ; 5 beaten eggs ; tablespoonful of 
butter. 

Soak the crumbs in the hot milk ; stir in the butter, the 
beaten eggs and sugar, at last the cooled and mashed 
peaches. Beat up light ; put into a buttered pudding- 
mould ; set in a pan of boiling water ; cover, and cok one 
hour in a good oven. Turn out, and eat with sweetened 
cream. 



FIRST WEEK SUNDAY. 547 



OCTOBER. 
JFtr0t ItJeek. 

Tapioca Soup. 

Fricassee of Ducks. Tomatoes in a Mould. 

Sweet Potatoes. Potato Rissoles. 



Ruby's Pudding. 

TAPIOCA SOUP. 

Remove the fat from your soup-stock; pour off two 
quarts ; heat, and strain through coarse muslin back into 
the pot. Stir in half a cup of soaked tapioca the fine- 
grained simmer until clear; add half a glass of brown 
sherry, and serve. 

FRICASSEE OF DUCKS. 

Clean, wash, and cut the ducks into four pieces each. 
Flour, and fry them to a light brown. Drain ; put into a 
saucepan, with a cup of gravy (a little of your soup- 
stock will do), a glass of claret, some chopped parsley, a 
small onion, minced, salt and pepper. Cover closely, and 
stew half an hour, or until the ducks are tender. Take 
them out ; strain, and set the gravy in cold water to throw 
up the fat. Take it off; thicken with browned flour wet 
with water ; boil up, and, having laid the ducks upon a 
flat dish, pour the gravy over them. This is a very fine 
fricassee. 

TOMATOES IN A MOULD. 

Peel and slice eight tomatoes. Put them in a coarse 
cloth, and press out most of the juice into a bowl. Save 
this carefully. Chop the tomatoes ; mix in two table- 
spoonfuls of fine crumbs, pepper, salt, sugar, and a table- 
spoonful of melted butter. Stir up well, and put into a 



543 OCTOBER. 

buttered mould. Fit on the top, and set in a pot of boil- 
ing water. Keep at a fast boil for one hour. When 
done, turn out upon a flat dish, and pour over them this 
sauce : Heat the tomato-juice ; stir in a tablespoonful of 
butter rolled in flour, season with pepper, sugar, and salt ; 
boil one minute. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

See Tuesday, Fourth Week in September. 

POTATO RISSOLES. 

Mash the potatoes fine, and whip with a fork, adding 
pepper, butter, and milk, lastly, a beaten egg. Have 
ready one-third as much chopped ham as you have potato ; 
mix all together ; make into round balls a little larger than 
an English walnut ; dip in egg, then in cracker-dust, and 
fry quickly in plenty of good dripping. Drain upon 
paper, and serve hot. 

RUBY'S PUDDING. 

Some good puff-paste ; Ib. of stale sponge-cakes, 
pounded ; i cup of milk ; i tablespoonful of butter ; i 
teaspoonful corn-starch wet in milk ; yolks of 2 eggs ; i 
heaping spoonful of sugar ; a little nutmeg ; whites of 3 
eggs ; strawberry, or other sweet jam. 

Line a pie-dish with the paste. Put a layer of jam at 
the bottom, then one, half an inch thick, of the pounded 
cakes. Heat the milk ; stir in the butter and corn-starch ; 
boil one minute. When cold, whip in the yolks and 
sugar, with nutmeg, and beat light. Fill the dish with this 
mixture, and bake about half an hour. Then cover with 
a meringue made of the three whites, a little sugar, and 
the juice of half a lemon. Spread quickly, and shut the 
oven-door until it has " set " well. Do this on Saturday, 
and you will have a delightful Sunday pudding. It is also 
good warm. 



FIRST WEEK MONDAY. 549 



Jir0t llleck. Ulonbag. 

Curry Soup. 

Breaded Mutton Chops, Baked. Spinach. 

Whipped Potatoes. Boiled Rice, with Sauce 

Apple Charlotte. 
Coffee. 

CURRY SOUP. 

Add a pint of boiling water to your soup -stock, and 
cook, with the meat in, half an hour, at the back of the 
range. Strain, squeezing the meat to a tasteless mass in 
a coarse cloth. Return the soup to the fire, stir in a cup 
of rice, boiled as I shall presently direct, and season to 
taste. Finally, put in a teaspoonful of curry-powder, wet 
up with water, and bring to a boil ; then pour out. If 
you do not like curry, you will find the soup very good 
without it. 

BREADED MUTTON CHOPS BAKED. 
Trim off fat and skin ; dip in egg, then in rolled cracker, 
mixed with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and powdered parsley. 
Lay upon a dripping-pan. Pour over each a teaspoonful 
of melted butter, and set in the oven. When they begin 
to hiss, baste with hot water, in which has been boiled a 
little onion, mixed with butter. If the oven be good, 
half an hour should be enough for them. They should 
be tender, juicy, and brown. Baste six or seven times. 
Strain the gravy, and thicken with browned flour. Add a 
little lemon -juice and tomato catsup, and send up in a 
boat. Lay the chops around your spinach. 

SPINACH. 

Boil twenty minutes in plenty of, boiling salt water. 
Drain, and chop very fine. Return to the saucepan, with 
a little sugar, pepper, salt, and a tablespoonful of butter 
rolled in flour. Stir until hot, and dry enough to be 
moulded. Turn out ; shape into a flat-topped ridge upon 
a hot dish, and lay the chops at the base 



550 OCTOBER. 

WHIPPED POTATOES 

Whip boiled potatoes to creamy lig'itness with a fork ; 
beat in butter, milk, pepper, and salt ; at last, the frothed 
white of an egg. Toss irregularly upon a dish ; set in the 
oven two minutes, to reheat, but do not let it color. 

BOILED RICE, WITH SAUCE. 

Dilute what gravy you have left from your duck fricas- 
see with water, or make a weak broth of the duck bones, 
boiled with a little lean ham in a quart of water, until you 
have less than a pint left. Or, add hot water to the re- 
mains of yesterday's soup, and strain it. But get a pint 
of weak gravy from somewhere, and, having soaked a cup 
of rice in just enough water to cover it, for an hour, put 
it over the fire in a farina-kettle, pour in the gravy, and 
cook until the rice is soft, shaking up from the bottom, 
now and then, but never stirring. Take out some for 
your soup. Heap the rest in a deep dish, and pour over 
it a cup of drawn butter, in which have been stirred a 
beaten egg and two tablespoon fills of tomato sace. 
N. B. The gravy should be well seasoned. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Beat two cups of nice apple sauce, well sweetened and 
flavored, to a high froth, with the whipped whites of three 
eggs. Make into a mound in a glass dish, and cover with 
lady's-fingers, or other small sponge-cakes, fitted neatly to- 
gether. Send around sugar and cream with it. 

COFFEE. 

Pass, while you are still at table, or afterward, in the 
library or sitting-room. 



FIRST WEEK TUESDAY. 551 

Jir0t 



Barley Broth. 

Stewed Beef, with Macaroni. 
Mashed Turnips. Kidney Beans. 

Southern Rice Pudding. 

BARLEY BROTH. 

2 Ibs. of lean mutton, cut into strips ; -J Ib. lean ham, 
or a cracked ham-bone ; i onion ; i turnip ; \ cup of 
barley, soaked two hours in a little tepid water ; 3 quarts 
of cold water ; pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. ' 

Cook meat, bones, and the sliced vegetables together 
in the water three hours. Strain, cool, and skim the 
broth ; season ; put back over the fire, with the barley, 
and stew gently half an hour. 

STEWED BEEF. . 

Have a piece of beef cut from what is known as the 
"roll" of the shin. It should weigh between three and 
four pounds. Put into a large saucepan, with a minced 
onion, and cover completely with water, in which pour a 
cup of your soup, so as to make a weak broth. Pepper 
and salt the meat all over before it goes in. Cover, and 
cook very slowly an hour and a half. Turn the beef, and 
cook as long again, making three hours in all. It should 
have been so slowly cooked as to be tender as butter, 
yet not broken at the edges. Dish, wash all over with 
melted butter, and set in the oven three minutes. Then 
arrange the macaroni about it. 

MACARONI. 

Boil half a pound of macaroni, broken into short pieces, 
in hot salted water, ten minutes ; drain, pepper and salt, 
and lay about the beef. Cool and skim the gravy after 
taking out the beef; strain into a saucepan, thicken with 
browned flour, add a little French mustard ; boil once, 
pour half over the beef, the rest into a boat. 



552 OCTOBER. 

% MASHED TURNIPS. 

Pare, quarter, and cook tender, in boiling salted watei 
Mash in a colander, pressing hard. Stir in butter, pep 
per and salt, and turn into a deep dish. 

KIDNEY BEANS. 

Shell ; put on in boiling water with an inch or so of fat 
salt pork, and cook tender. Drain well, salt, pepper, and 
butter. 

SOUTHERN RICE PUDDING. 

i quart fresh, sweet milk ; i cup of raw rice ; 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter ; i cup of sugar ; 5 beaten eggs ; I 
teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel ; a pinch of cinnamon 
and same of mace. 

Soak the rice in the milk two hours. Heat in a farina- 
kettle until the rice is soft. Cream butter and sugar ; stir 
in the beaten eggs and whip hard. When the rice is luke- 
warm, put all together, and bake in a buttered mould 
about forty-five minutes. Eat warm with sauce, or cold 
with sugar and cream. 



Jir0t 

Squirrel Soup. 

Fricassee of Calf's Tongues. Fried Egg-plant. 

Squash. Stripped Potatoes, Stewed. 

Jelly Custards and Cake. 

SQUIRREL SOUP. 

Skin, clean, and cut into quarters a pair of fine gray 
squirrels. Fry a large onion, sliced, in dripping ; take it 
out, and fry the squirrels in the same fat. Put them then 
into a soup-pot with the onion, a sliced turnip, a sliced 
carrot, a slice thick of lean ham, some parsley, and 
two blades of mace ; add three quarts of water cover 



FIRST WEEK WEDNESDAY. 553 

closely and boil gently three hours ; take out the pieces 
of squirrel, and put away for a breakfast dish. A toler- 
able fricassee can be made by warming it up in drawn 
butter, then adding a beaten egg. 

Revenons a nos inoutons in this case, our soup. Rub 
the vegetables through the colander ; cool, skim and sea- 
son the broth. Heat again ; add a tablespoonful of but- 
ter cut up in flour, a tablespoonful of catsup, the juice of 
half a lemon, a glass of claret, boil up and pour into the 
tureen. 

FRICASSEE OF CALF'S TONGUES. 

Boil the tongues one hour. Pare, and cut into thick 
slices. Roll these in flour, and fry in dripping five min- 
utes. Put the tongues into a saucepan ; add sliced onion, 
thyme and parsley. Cover with a cupful of your soup or 
other gra'vy. Simmer half an hour, covered tightly. Take 
up the tongues and keep them warm ; strain the gravy ; 
thicken, put in four or five thin slices of lemon, from 
which the peel has been taken ; boil one minute, and pour 
over the fricassee. 

FRIED EGG-PLANT. 

i fine egg-plant ; 2 eggs ; cup of milk ; flour for thin 
batter, salt, and fat for frying. 

Slice, and pare each slice. Lay in salt and water one 
hour ; dry between two towels and dip each slice in a 
batter made of the materials above given. Fry in hot fat 
to a good brown. Drain well. 

SQUASH. 

Pare, quarter, and cook soft in boiling salted water. 
Drain, mash smooth in a heated colander, work in butter, 
pepper and salt, and serve in a deep dish. 

STRIPPED POTATOES, STEWED. 

Pare, and cut into lengthwise strips ; cover with boil- 
ing water, and stew twenty minutes. Turn off nearly all 
the water ; put in a cupful of cold milk, with salt and 
pepper. When this boils, stir in a spoonful of butter, 
rolled in flour, with a little chopped parsley. Cook two 
minutes, and serve. 
24 



554 OCTOBER. 

JELLY CUSTARDS AND CAKE. 

i quart of milk; 5 eggs; i cup of sugar ; vanilla 01 
"other flavoring ; crab-apple and currant jelly. 

Heat the milk ; pour upon the beaten eggs and sugar. 
Heat and stir until it begins to thicken. When cold, 
flavor ; fill your custard-cups nearly to the tops, and lay a 
slice of firm, bright jelly upon each tart upon some, 
sweet upon the rest. Eat with cake. 



fivst tUcck. <l)uv0bag. 

Marrow-bone Soup. 

Roast Chickens. Lima Beans. 

Broiled Potatoes. Raw Tomatoes. 

Squash Pie. 

MARROW-BONE SOUP. 

4 Ibs. of marrow-bones, broken to pieces, and the mar- 
row left in (beef-bones are best, but others may be used) ; 
i Ib. salt pork, or ham -bones ; 2 onions ; 2 stalks of cel- 
ery ; 3 tomatoes ; 4 parboiled potatoes, sliced ; bunch of 
herbs ; pepper and salt ; 5 quarts of water. 

Put on the bones in the water, and cook slowly four 
hours, leaving three quarts of water. Strain into a bowl ; 
surround this with cold water, to make the fat rise ; take 
this off, and return the soup to the fire, with the parboiled 
potatoes and the sliced onions which should have lain ten, 
minutes in scalding water, to take off their strong taste 
the tomatoes, and herbs. Boil slowly until you can rub 
the vegetables through a colander. Add them to the 
soup ; season j heat almost to the third boil, and pour out. 

ROAST CHICKENS. 

Draw, wash, and stuff a pair of full-grown chickens. 
Truss, and lay in a dripping-pan. Dash a cup of boiling 



FIRST WEEKTHURSDAY. 555 

water over them, and roast one hour, or until tender and 
brown. Baste very often twice, after they begin to 
brown, with butter. Sprinkle the giblets with salt, and 
set away for to-morrow. Pour the gravy, after the chick- 
ens are taken up, into a bowl, set in cold water, and take 
off the fat. Put into a saucepan, thicken with browned 
Hour ; season ; boil once, and serve in a boat. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Shell ; cook forty minutes in boiling salted water ; 
drain, pepper, salt, and butter, and serve in a vegetable- 
dish. 

BROILED POTATOES. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes lengthwise, and rather thick. 
Lay between the wires of an oyster-broiler, and cook at a 
hot fire to a light brown on both sides. Sprinkle with 
pepper and salt ; lay a bit of butter upon each, and eat 
hot. 

RAW TOMATOES. 

Pare, slice, and put into a salad-dish. Mix in a bowi a 
teaspoonful of sugar, half as much, each, of made mustard, 
pepper, and salt \ add, gradually, two tablespoonfuls ot 
salad-oil, and the yolk of an egg. Beat to a cream, and 
whip in, a little at a time, five tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 
Pour over the tomatoes, and set the salad upon ice until 
needed. 

SQUASH PIE. 

i pint of boiled, mashed, and strained squash ; 2 cups 
of milk ; i cup of sugar ; 4 eggs, beaten light ; \ tea- 
spoonful of ginger, and i teaspoonful mixed mace and 
cinnamon. 

Beat all well together, and bake in open shells. 



556 OCTOBER. 



$ ir0t ttkek. Jiftag. 

Cat-fish Soup. 

Scalloped Oysters. Roulettes of Chicken, 

Beets. Fried Sweet Potatoes. 

Amber Pudding. 



CAT-FISH SOUP. 

6 fresh-water cat-fish, in weight about half a pound 
each ; i pint of milk ; 4 tablespoonfuls of butter ; i table- 
spoonful corn-starch, wet with cold milk ; i onion ; i tea- 
spoonful essence of celery, and same of anchovy sauce ; 
2 tablespoonfuls chopped celery ; 2 beaten eggs ; 3 quarts 
of cold water. 

Cut up the fish, when you have skinned them and re- 
moved the heads. Put into a pot, with the onion and 
water, and boil until the fish are in rags. Strain, return 
to the pot, add the corn-starch, and, when this has thick- 
ened, the butter, a teaspoonful at a time. Season with 
pepper, salt, celery, and anchovy, and pour into the 
tureen. Have ready the hot milk, mixed and cooked one 
minute with the beaten eggs and parsley. Add this to 
the hot soup ; stir well, and serve. Pass sliced lemon and 
oyster crackers with it. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

3 pints of oysters ; i cup of rolled cracker ; 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter ; pepper ; salt ; juice of a lemon. 
(Cayenne pepper is best for this purpose.) 

Butter a neat pudding-dish. Strain the oysters from 
their liquor ; spread upon a cloth ; take up, one by one, 
and put on a drop or so of lemon-juice ; roll in cracker- 
dust, pepper, and salt, and lay in the dish. When the 
bottom is covered, drop bits of butter here and there, and 
proceed to put on another layer of crumbs and seasoned 
oysters. Having filled your dish, strew cracker-dust over 
all ; stick bits of butter upon it, and wet well with a cup 



FIRST WEEK FRIDAY. 557 

of oyster-liquor. Bake, covered, half an hour, or until 
the juice bubbles up at the edges ; then brown upon the 
upper grating of the oven. 

ROULETTES OF CHICKEN. 

Cut oft' the meat from the skeletons of your roast chick- 
ens. Put on the bones and stuffing in a quart of water, 
and stew down to one pint. Meantime, chop the chicken 
meat fine ; mix with one-fourth as much fine crumbs, wet 
with yesterday's gravy ; add the gizzards, boiled and 
minced, and the boiled livers pounded ; season to taste ; 
bind all with beaten egg ; make into balls, and dip into a 
batter made of three-quarters of a cup of milk, two eggs, 
about one scant cup of prepared flour, or just enough to 
make rather thin batter, salted to taste. Fry, as you dip 
each roulette, in hot lard, or gripping ; drain off the fat, 
and pile them upon a dish. Cool, strain, and season the 
gravy from the bones ; thicken, should it need it ; boil 
once, and serve in a boat to go around with the roulettes. 
They are a nice entree. 

BEETS. 

Cut off the tops and wash. Boil one hour in hot, salted 
water; scrape and slice. Dish and pour over them a 
mixture of one tablespoonful of melted butter heated, 
with one of vinegar, and seasoned with pepper and salt. 

FRIED SWEET POTATOES. 

Bcil, and let them get cold. Then, scrape off the 
skins ; slice lengthwise, and fry to a light brown in good 
dripping or salted lard. 

AMBER PUDDING. 

6 eggs beaten light ; i cup of sugar, creamed with J 
cup of butter ; juice of a lemon, and half the grated peel; 
a good pinch of nutmeg ; puff paste. 

Mix sugar, butter, eggs, together ; put into a custard- 
kettle, set in hot water, and stir until it thickens. Stir in 
lemon and nutmeg, and let it get cold. Put a strip of 
paste around the edge of a pie-plate ; print it prettily ; 
pour in the cold mixture, and bake in a steady, not too 
hot oven. Eat cold. 



558 OCTOBER. 

fust tDcek. 

Ox-tail Soup. 

Corned Beef. Boiled Turnips. 

Mashed Potatoes. Horseradish Sauce. 



Bubble Pudding. 

Ox TAIL SOUP. 

2 ox-tails ; 3 Ibs. lean beef; 4 carrots ; 3 onions ; thyme 
and parsley ; 8 quarts of cold water ; 4 tablespoonfuls of 
butter for frying ; pepper, salt, and browned flour. 

Cut the tails into short pieces, and fry to a good brown. 
Take them from the pan, and fry two sliced carrots and 
two sliced onions in the same butter. Lay the meat, cut 
into strips, in the bottom of a soup-pot ; upon them the 
fried onions and carrots, upon these the ox- tails. Grate 
the two whole carrots, and slice the whole onion ; cover 
the tails with them. Put in the herbs, and pour in the 
water. It is a good plan to fry the tails, onions, and 
carrots overnight, as the soup should have at least six 
hours' boil. There should be six quarts of soup. Strain 
it off. Put meat and tails into your stock-pot, season 
well, and pour on four quarts of the soup. Keep in a 
cold place for future use. 

Rub the vegetables through the colander into the por- 
tion reserved for to-day ; cool and skim ; put back over 
the fire ; bring to a boil ; season and skim ; then thicken 
with browned flour about two tablespoonfuls wet up 
with cold water. Simmer five minutes and pour out. 

CORNED BEEF. 

Cook in plenty of cold water at the back of the range. 
Fast boiling toughens meat. Boil eighteen or twenty 
minutes to the pound. Take out, wipe quickly, and rub 
all over with butter. Send horseradish sauce around with 
it. Save the pot-liquor. 

BOILED TURNIPS. 

Peel and quarter the turnips. Dip out a pint of pot- 
liquor from your boiling beef; strain, heat, and skim it, 



SECOND WEEK SUNDAY. 559 

and while boiling hot, put in the turnips. Cook soft, but 
not to brea.king ; drain, and lay about the beef in its dish, 
with parsley sprigs or cresses, as an edging. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Whip light with a fork until dry and mealy ; then beat 
in butter, milk, and salt. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Heat and strain a cupful of the beef pot-liquor. Stir into 
it a tablespoonful of butter, rolled in a teaspoonful of flour. 
When it thickens, take from the fire and whip in the 
whisked white of an egg ; then two tablespoonfuls of 
grated horseradish, and the juice of a lemon. Set in boil- 
ing water until wanted. 

BUBBLE PUDDING. 

i quart of fresh milk ; 5 eggs, well beaten ; 3 table- 
spoonfuls of corn-starch ; i tablespoonful of sugar ; nut- 
meg to taste ; pinch of soda in the milk. 

Scald the milk ; stir in the corn-starch ; cook one min- 
ute, and pour upon the beaten eggs and sugar. Season, 
whip up well ; pour into a round-bottomed mould, well 
buttered ; fit on the top ; set in a pot of boiling water ; 
boil three-quarters of an hour ; turn out upon a dish, and 
eat with wine sauce. It will almost certainly break in 
two on the way to table, hence the name. 



Second Ittwk. * Simian. 

Clear Soup. 

Chickens and Mushrooms. Squash au Gratia 

Creamed Potatoes. Breaded Egg-plant. 

Spanish Cream. 

CLEAR SOUP. 

Take the fat from your soup stock ; dip out two quarts, 
or more, as you may need, warm it over the fire with an 



56O OCTOBER. 

onion, simmer and skim until clear ; strain ; add two tsu 
blespoonfuls of sparkling gelatine soaked in a very little 
water ; put in, also, a teaspoonful of essence of celery, 
the juice of a lemon, and a glass of good wine. Boil up 
once, take off the film from the top, and pour out. 

CHICKENS AND MUSHRODMS. 

Clean and wash a pair of fine fowls, and stuff their 
bodies with chopped mushrooms, in which a teaspoonful 
of onion has been mixed. Fill the craws with the usual 
dressing of seasoned crumbs with the addition of the 
pounded yolk of an egg. Lay the trussed chickens in a 
pot, and pour over them a large cupful of your soup- 
stock diluted with as much boiling water. Simmer until 
tender. Take up and keep the chickens hot. Strain the 
gravy ; season to taste, skim off the fat ; stir in a table- 
spoonful of flour wet with milk ; boil and stir two min- 
utes to thicken ; add half a cup of hot milk ; stir in well, 
and pour some over the chickens ; the rest into a boat. 
Save the giblets for to-morrow. 

SQUASH AU GRATIN. 

Pare, quarter, and boil the squash ; mash and press to 
get out the water ; beat in a good spoonful of butter with 
pepper, salt, and a little cream. Pour into a bake-dish ; 
strew with fine crumbs, and bake in a quick oven until 
these are slightly browned. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

Put into a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of butter, a 
little minced parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Stir to 
hissing, add a small cup of milk (with a pinch of soda), 
and, when hot, a teaspoonful of flour. Stir until it boils ; 
chop cold boiled potatoes, put into the cream, and serve 
so soon as they begin to boil. 

BREADED EGG-PLANT. 

Slice, and pare the slices. Lay in strong salt water one 
hour ; wipe dry ; dip in beaten egg, and roll in pounded 
cracker. Fry to a good brown ; drain well, and dish hot 



SECOND WEEK MONDAY. $6l 

SPANISH CREAM. 

\ box of gelatine ; i quart of milk ; yolks of 3 eggs ; I 
small cup of sugar ; flavor with vanilla, or other essence. 

Soak the gelatine one hour in the milk. Put into a 
farina-kettle, and stir as it warms. When hot, pour over 
the be-aten yolks and sugar ; put back into the kettle, and 
heat to scalding. Strain through tarlatan ; flavor and 
pour into a wet mould. Do this on Saturday, and set in 
a cold place. Eat with cream, or without. 



IHonirag. 



Vermicelli Soup. 

Mutton Chops. Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Tomato Sauce. Savory Rice Pudding. 



Oranges, Bananas, and Pears. 



VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Add the remains of yesterday's soup to what remains 
in your stock-pot. Dilute with a little boiling water, and 
heat all to a boil. Strain out the ox-tails, etc., which 
have done such good service. Although it is Monday, 
make time to put them into a pot, by and by, with the 
skeletons of yesterday'.s chickens. Cover them with the 
skimmed liquor in which the corned beef was cooked on 
Saturday, and warm slowly to a boil, then, put back into 
the stock-pot for to-monrow's soup. As to to-day's soup, 
add seasoning to taste ; boil up and skim, and, ten min- 
utes before serving, drop in a handful of vermicelli, broken 
small, and cooked ten minutes in boiling water. Boil up 
once and serve. 

MUTTON CHOPS. 

Trim off fat and- skin; leave a bare piece of bone at 
the top of each ; broil over or under a bright fire ; salt, 
24* 



$62 OCTOBER. 

pepper, and butter each one, and lay upon a hot dish, the 
large end of each overlapping the small end of that be- 
yond it. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. * 

Wash, and lay in a moderate oven. When they are soft 
between the fingers, they are done. Serve in' the skins. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Pare, slice, and stew twenty minutes. Then season 
with pepper, salt, and sugar ; stir in a good lump of but- 
ter rolled in flour ; simmer ten minutes, and serve. 

SAVORY RICE PUDDING. 

i cup of boiled rice ; cup of gravy from yesterday's 
chickens ; the giblets, boiled and chopped ; 2 eggs ; 3 
tablespoonfuls of milk ; i teaspoonful of flour ; pepper 
and salt. 

Beat the eggs into the rice ; add gravy, milk, season- 
ings, giblets ; lastly, the flour wet up in milk. Beat well : 
pour into a monld ; set in a dripping-pan of hot water, 
and cook one hour. Turn out, and eat hott 

ORANGES, BANANAS, AND PEARS. 
Atone to the so-by-herself-considered queen of the lower 
realms for such a " quare lot of mussing on a washin' 
day," by serving a pretty fruit dessert, and seeing to it that 
it is pretty and good. 



Secontr 



Green Bean Soup. 

Beef a la Reine. Puree of Turnips 

Potato Cakes. * Lettuce Salad. 



Custard Bread Pudding. 

GREEN BEAN SOUP. 

Take the fat from your soup-stock ; add a quart ot 
boiling water, and strain from the debris. Put over the 



SECOND WEEK-TUESDAY. $63 

fire ; boil, and take off the scum ; then put in a scant 
quart of fresh kidney or Lima beans. Boil slowly at the 
back of the range until the beans break to pieces. Rub 
through a colander ; season as required ; put in a tea- 
spoonful of essence of celery, and pour upon dice of fried 
bread already in the tureen. 

BEEF A. LA REINE. 

Have a small round of beef, or a piece weighing six or 
seven pounds cut from the round, bound into a compact 
shape by a broad strip of muslin, as wide as it is high. 
Make holes clear through it by passing a keen knife per- 
pendicularly through the round about an inch apart 
Fill one-third of these with chopped fat bacon ; one-third 
with a mixture of crumbs, onion, and herbs ; the other 
with minced oysters. Rub the top of the round with all- 
spice, nutmeg, salt, and pepper, working the mixture well 
into the incisions, as well as into the flesh. Set the stuffed 
round in a dripping-pan ; pour over it a cup of your soup- 
stock (before the beans are added), mixed with a glass of 
claret. Dredge the top with flour when the gravy has 
soaked in, and cook, in a moderate oven, two hours or 
more, basting very often. Undo the bandage ; dish the 
beef; strain the gravy ; thicken with browned flour, and 
serve in a boat. 

PURE OF TURNIPS. 

Peel, slice, and boil in hot salted water. Rub through 
a colander ; return to the fire ; mix in a great spoonful 
of butter rolled in a little flour, two tablespoonfuls of 
cream, and season with pepper and salt. Stir tn min- 
utes, and pour out. 

.POTATO CAKES. 

Stir into a cup of mashed potatoes a tablespoonful of 
butter (heaping), a beaten egg, two tablespoonfuls of milk, 
salt, and a tablespoonful ot prepared flour. Roll out, 
half an inch thick ; cut round or square ; prick with a 
fork, and bake to a nice brown. Eat hot. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Pull the best leaves to pieces ; heap in a salad-bowl, and 
pour over it a dressing made according to the receipt 



OCTOBER. 

given on Thursday of First Week in October, but leaving 
out the raw egg. 

CUSTARD BREAD PUDDING. 

2 cups fine dry crumbs ; i quart of milk ; 5 eggs, beaten 
light ; i tablespoonftil corn-starch ; T teaspoonful of salt, 
and 4 teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in the milk ; flavor 
to taste. 

Soak the crumbs in the milk, and heat in a custard- 
kettle to a boil. Add the corn-starch wet with cold milk, 
cook one minute, turn out and beat hard. When smooth 
and almost cold, whip in the yolks, the flavoring, lastly, 
the whites. Boil in a buttered mould an hour and a half. 
Eat hot with sweet sauce. It is excellent. 



Seconir tUcek. 



A Cheap Soup. 

Cannelon of Beef. Browned Sweet Potatoes. 

Hominy Croquettes. Cauliflower. 

Claret Jelly and Mrs. M.'s Sponge-Cake. 



A CHEAP SOUP. 

i Ib. of lean beef, cut into strips ; 2 onions ; 2 turnips ; 
ij- cup of rice ; 6 tomatoes ; 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar ; 
pepper, salt ; 2 teaspoonfuls essence of celery ; dripping 
for frying ; 3 quarts of water ; bunch of herbs. 

Put dripping and sugar into a soup- pot ; when they 
heat, add the meat and sliced onions. Stir until nicely 
browned. Add the water, the turnips, and herbs. Cook 
one hour ; take off the fat ; put in tomatoes and rice, and 
simmer two hours. Season to taste, cook ten minutes, 
and pour out. 

CANNELON OF BEEF. 

Chop the remains of yesterday's beef; mix with quar- 
ter of a pound of minced ham ; season with pepper, salt 



SECOND WEEK-WEDNESDAY. $65 

grated lemon- peel, and a little onion. Moisten with yes- 
terday's gravy, with a little flour stirred 'n, and bind with 
a beaten egg or two. Make some pie-paste, or such as 
you would use for dumplings ; roll into an oblong sheet ; 
put the beef-mince in the middle, and make the pastry 
into a long roll, enclosing the meat. Close at the ends 
with round caps of pastry, the edges pinched well together. 
Lay in a dripping-pan the joined side of the roll down- 
ward, and bake to a good brown. 

BROWNED SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil, and peel neatly. Lay in a dripping-pan, and baste 
often with good dripping, or butter, until glossy and del 
icately browned. 

HOMINY CROQUETTES. 

2 cups of boiled, fine-grained hominy ; 2 beaten eggs ; 
2 tablespoonfuls melted butter ; salt to taste. 

Work the hominy smooth with the butter ; beat in the 
eggs with a wooden spoon ; salt, and make into long 
balls, with floured hands. Flatten at the ends, roll ir, 
flour, and fry to a golden brown in lard or dripping. 
Drain, and pile upon a flat dish. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil a fine cauliflower in hot salted water. Drain, put 
into a deep dish, blossom upward, and pour over it a cup 
of rich drawn butter, with the juice of half a lemon 
stirred in. 

CLARET JELLY. 

i package Coxe's gelatine, soaked one hour in a large 
cup of water ; 2 cups of sugar ; 2 cups of claret ; i pint 
of boiling water ; juice of i lemon ; a pinch of mace. 

Put gelatine, lemon, sugar, and mace together, and 
cover half an hour. Pour on the boiling water ; stir until 
the gelatine is melted, and strain through a flannel bag. 
Add the wine, and strain through double flannel into a 
wet mould. Set in ice. 



OCTOBER. 

MRS. M.'s SPONGE-CAKE. 

See "GENERAL RECEIPTS No. i, COMMON SENSE IN 
THE HOUSEHOLD SERIES," page 326. 



Smmb 



Egg Soup. 

Larded Steak, Broiled. Puree of Potatoes. 

Baked Macaroni. Bavarian Salad. 



Lemon Cream Pie. 

EGG SOUP. 

2 Ibs. lean ham ; i Ib. lean veal, cut into dice ; i car- 
rot ; i onion ; i grated turnip ; i boiled potato, mashed ; 
chopped parsley ; 3 quarts of water ; 6 or 8 eggs. 

Cut up the meat, onion, and carrot, and put "on with 
herbs and water to come to a slow boil. Keep this up 
for three hours and a half. The water should not lose 
more than one-third. Strain off the liquor; cool and 
skim. Put over the fire, with the grated turnip and 
mashed potato. Season, and simmer half an hour. Pour 
into the tureen, and lay upon the top of the soup as many 
poached eggs, trimmed round, as there are persons to be 
served. 

LARDED STEAK, BROILED. 

Flatten a large steak, and lard it with thin strips of fat 
salt pork, bringing all the ends out on one side of the 
steak. You can do this with a knife and your fingers, by 
making two holes for each lardoon, and making a loop of 
it under the steak ; but it is better to have a larding-nee- 
dle. Broil upon a greased gridiron ; lay upon a hot dish ; 
put upon it a little warmed butter, seasoned with yepper, 
salt, and French mustard. 



SECOND WEEK THURSDAY. *> 

PuRisE OF POTATOES. 

Mash boiled potatoes; rub through a colander ; add a 
few spoonfuls of milk, one of butter rolled in flour, and 
stir over the fire five minutes. Season with salt and pep- 
per. Pour into a deep dish. 

BAKED MACARONI. 

Break half a pound of macaroni into inch lengths, and 
cook twenty minutes in boiling salt water. Drain ; cover 
the bottom of a buttered dish with it ; strew with grated 
cheese and butter-bits, pepper and salt lightly, and put in 
another layer of macaroni. Fill the dish in this way ; 
strew cheese and butter on top ; pour in half a cup of 
milk, and bake, covered, half an hour then, brown 
quickly. 

BAVARIAN SALAD. 

2 small onions ; 2 heads of lettuce, pulled to pieces ; 

1 boiled beet, cold and sliced ; 3 tablespoonfuls salad-oil ; 

2 of vinegar ; yolk of i raw egg ; I saltspoonful of salt, 
and same of made mustard. 

Chop the onions exceedingly small, and beat into the 
whipped egg the salt, mustard, the oil, last of all, the 
vinegar. Put the lettuce into a dish ; cover with the 
beet-root, and pour on the dressing. 

LEMON CREAM PIE. 

T cup of sugar; i tablespoonful of butter; i egg ; i 
lemon, pared carefully, even to the white rind, and the 
seeds removed ; i tablespoonful corn-starch, wet in cold 
water ; T cup of boiling water. 

Stir the corn-starch into the water, and pour over the 
creamed butter and sugar. When cold, add the minced 
lemon and grated peel, with the egg. Beat hard and 
bake in open shells of paste. Eat cold. 



568 OCTOBER. 

Jkconb fthek. 

Turnip Soup. 

Oyster Pates. Rissoles of Sweetbreads. 

Chopped Cabbage. Mashed Potatoes Browned. 



Quince Souffle. 



TURNIP SOUP. 

12 turnips; 4 tablespoonfuls of butter; 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of flour ; i quart of milk ; 2 quarts of water ; i 
onion ; chopped parsley ; salt and cayenne. 

Pare, slice, and put the turnips on with the onion in 
the water. Cook soft, pulp through a colander, and 
return, with the water, to the fire. Melt the butter in a 
saucepan, stir in the flour, and cook ten minutes, stirring 
all the time in one direction. Add the milk, stirring it in 
gradually ; take from the fire. Simmer the turnip puree 
five minutes after adding seasoning and chopped parsley ; 
pour in the thickened milk, boil up once, and serve. 

OYSTER PATE'S. 

i quart of oysters, minced fine with a sharp knife ; i 
cup of rich drawn butter, based upon milk ; cayenne and 
pepper to taste. 

Stir the minced oysters into the drawn butter and cook 
five minutes in a farina-kettle. Have ready some shapes 
of pastry, baked in /#/e-pans, then slipped out. Fill 
these with the mixture ; set in the oven two minutes to 
heat, and send to table. 

RISSOLES OF SWEETBREADS. 

Boil and blanch three fine sweetbreads. Mince, and 
add one-third the quantity of fine crumbs. Season with 
pepper and salt, a little nutmeg, and two beaten eggs. 
Work and beat smooth ; roll into long balls ; flour these 
well. Have ready a little gravy in a saucepan, well- 
seasoned ; add as much drawn butter. When it boils, put 



SECOND WEEK SATURDAY. 

in the rissoles, a few at a time, and cook ten inmates. 
Drain off the gravy; transfer the sweetbreads carefully to 
a hot dish ; pour the gravy upon a beaten egg ; heat to 
thickening, and pour over the rissoles. 

CHOPPED CABBAGE. 

Boil a firm cabbage in two waters having taken off 
the outer leaves and quartered it. Chop very an ; put 
into a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of butter and the 
same of vinegar, with pepper and salt. Stir in the cab- 
bage, and when very hot, dish. 

MASHED POTATOES BROWNED. 

Mash in the usual way ; heap roughly upon a greased 
pie-plate ; set in a quick oven, and when delicately 
Drowned, slip to another dish. . 

QUINCE SOUFFLE". 

Pare, slice, and stew the fruit soft. Sweeten well, and 
rub through a colander. Put into a glass dish. Make a 
custard of i pint of milk, 3 yolks, and half a cup of 
sugar. When cold, pour, two inches deep, upon - the 
quince. Whip the whites of the eggs light with sugar and 
lemon-juice, and heap upon the custard. 



Stconir Ueek. Satttrirag. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

Hot Pot. Cauliflower a la Crdme. 

Mashed Parsnips. Lima Beans. 



Cocoanut Pudding. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Please consult receipt for Wednesday, Third Week it 
March. There should be enough for two days at least. 



57O OCTOBER. 

HOT POT. 

2 Ibs. of lean veal ; calfs brains from your boiled head ; 
i pint of oysters ; pepper cayenne is best ; a little minced 
onion; salt; a tablespoonful of butter; J Ib. of oyster 
crackers, buttered and split ; minced parsley and lemon- 
peel. 

Cut the veal into squares, and parboil for twenty min- 
utes. Put a layer in the bottom of a buttered bake-dish ; 
season well ; sprinkle on a little onion, and put a layer 
of split crackers next. The brains should be beaten up 
with a raw egg, and seasoned. Drop in small spoonfuls 
upon the crackers ; next, put a few oysters, strewed with 
pepper, salt and butter-bits ; more veal, and so on to the 
top, which should be crackers. Fill the dish with the 
water in which the veal was boiled, seasoned, and an 
equal quantity of oysjer liquor. Cover closely, and bake 
in a moderate oven an hour and a half. Serve in the 
dish. It should not be uncovered for browning. 

CAULIFLOWER A LA CR&ME. 

Boil a fine cauliflower in plenty of hot salted water, 
having tied it up in a bit of mosquito-net. When done, 
put into a deep dish, blossom upward, and pour over it a 
cupful of drawn butter in which has been beaten, and then 
cooked, a raw egg. 

MASHED PARSNIPS. 

Scrape, slice lengthwise, and put on to boil in hot 
salted water. They will take more than an hour to cook. 
When tender, drain and press in a colander. Mash 
smooth; put into -a clean saucepan with a little butter, 
pepper and salt. Stir until very hot, then dish. 

LIMA BEANS. 
See Thursday of First Week in October. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

i heaping ~up fine crumbs ; cup of butter ; i c up 
powdrred sugar; i grated cocoanut ; 2 cups milk; 



THIRD WEEK SUNDAY. 57 * 

tablespoonful corn-starch wet with cold water ; 5 eggs , 
nutmeg and rose-water to taste. 

Soak the crumbs in the milk, and add to the creamed 
butter and sugar, and the beaten yolks. Beat well ; put 
in the corn-starch ; the whisked white ; at last the grated 
cocoanut. Beat one minute ; pour into a buttered pud- 
ding-dish, and bake in a moderate oven forty-five minutes 
Eat cold, wilh sugar sifted on top. 



tljirl tlUclu 0unbaj). 

Yesterday's Soup. 

Roast Leg of Lamb. Potato Croquettes. 

Sweet Potatoes. Fried Egg-plant. 

Currant Jelly. 

Rice Snow. 
White Mountain Cake. 

YESTERDAY'S SOUP. 

Your mock-turtle soup will, be even better the second 
day than on the first. Take off the fat ; dip out enough 
of the stock for your family, and bring slowly to a boil. 
You can make a little variety in it by serving the force- 
meat balls the first day; 'the meat dice the second, or 
vice versa. 

ROAST LEG OF LAMB. 

Lay in the dripping-pan ; pour a cup of boiling water 
over it, and roast steadily, twelve minutes to the pound, 
basting very often. Ten minutes before taking it up, 
dredge with flour, and baste well with butter to make a 
Brown froth. Lay on a dish, and keep hot. Pour the 
gravy into a basin set in very cold water. This will send 
the grease to the top. Remove it all ; pour the brown 
gravy into a saucepan ; thicken with browned flour ; season, 
boil one 2, and serve in a boat. Pass currant-jelly with 
lamb. 



572 OCTOBER. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

2 cups mashed potatoes, free from lumps ; 2 beaten 
eggs ; i tablespoonful melted butter ; salt and pepper to 
taste ; a little flour. 

Mix all well together ; heat, and stir over the fire until 
smoking hot. Let it get cold, and make into small rolls 
flattened at the ends. Roll in flour and fry to a good 
brown. Drain off upon paper and eat hot. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil until a fork will go easily into the largest. Skin, 
and lay in a bake-pan in the oven a few minutes to dry 
then serve. 

FRIED EGG-PLANT. 

See Wednesday, First Week in October. 

RICE SNOW. 

i quart of milk ; 5 table spoon fills of rice flour ; the 
whites of 4 eggs ; i great spoonful of butter ; i cup of 
powdered sugar ; a pinch of cinnamon, and same of nut- 
meg ; vanilla, or other extract ; a little salt. 

Scald the milk, and stir in the flour wet up to a thin 
paste with cold milk. Cook until it begins to thicken ; 
add sugar and spice ; simmer five minutes, stirring all the 
while ; pour out, and beat in the butter. Let it get cold ; 
flavor, and whip, a spoonful at, a time, into the whisked 
whites. Set to form in a wet mould. Prepare on Satur- 
day. Turn out on Sunday, and eat with sweet cream. 
If more convenient, you can substitute corn-starch for 
the rice flour. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

See "GENERAL RECEIPTS No. i, COMMON SENSE IN 
THE HOUSEHOLD SERIES," page 3x9. 



THIRD WEEK MONDAY 573 

Sfyirtr tteek. 



Sago Soup. 

Lamb Pudding. Stewed Corn. 

Potatoes au Naturel. Cabbage Salad 

Grapes, Pears, and Bananas. 
Tea a la Russe, Crackers and Cheese. 

SAGO SOUP. 

Cut all the meat from your cold leg of lamb ; crack the 
bone to splinters ; put on, with gristly bits of meat, skin, 
etc., in three quarts of water, with an onion, and boil 
slowly, at the back of the range, down to one quart. 
Strain, cool, and skim. Add to what has been saved 
from the mock-turtle stock made on Saturday. Heat, 
and stir in half a cup of pearl sago, previously soaked 
three hours in a very little water. Season, and simmer 
half an hour. 

LAMB PUDDING. 

The cold meat from yesterday's joint ; bread-crumbs ; 
i tablespoonful of butter ; 2 eggs ; a little gravy ; pep- 
per, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. 

Chop the cold lamb fine, season, and wet up with a 
little good gravy. Mix in one-fourth as much crumbs as 
you have meat ; beat in the melted butter, the eggs, and 
pour into a buttered mould. Set in a pan of hot water, 
and cook, covered, in a good oven for one hour. Turn 
out, and pour a little gravy over it. 

STEWED CORN. 

Green corn, even iij city markets, is both indifferent 
and dear at this season. We do better, therefore, to fall 
back upon the invaluable canned vegetables that have 
made American housewives almost independent of chang- 
ing seasons. Open a can of corn one hour before it is to 
be cooked. When ready for it turn into a farina-kettle ; 
pour on just enough hot water to cover it, and cook half 



574 OCTOBER. 

an hour. Then, a'dd a little milk, a good lump of butter 
cut up in flour, pepper and salt to taste, and cook fifteen 
minutes longer. 

POTATOES AU NATUREL. 

Put over the fire in cold water ; bring to a boil, and, 
fifteen minutes thereafter, pour in a cup of cold water to 
arrest the boil suddenly. After the beginning of the 
second bubble, cook quite fast until a fork will enter the 
largest potato without forcing. Turn off the water, set 
the uncovered pot upon the fire for a minute ; strip off 
the skins quickly, and serve. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Shred a white cabbage fine ; and pour over it a dress- 
ing such as you made on Thursday, Second Week in 
October, but without the chopped onion. 

GRAPES, PEARS, AND BANANAS. 

Heap the grapes in one salver or basket, with a spray 
of some climbing or clinging vine thrown around it. 
Group pears and bananas together, and garnish with 
autumn leaves. 

TEA 1 LA RUSSE. 

Slice a fresh lemon ; take off all the skin ; lay the 
slices, with powdered sugar strewed over them, in a plate , 
pour out the tea, hot and t strong, with plenty of sugar, 
and pass the . lemon with it. Serve, without cream. I 
shall never forget a surprise that was startling as well, as 
a disappointment, that came to me one day, when, sinking 
under the depression of an incipient headache, brought 
on by miles of picture galleries, I called for a cup of hot 
tea in a foreign restaurant, and was served with what I 
instantly pronounced to be "poison!" "Motto buono" 
protested the waiter, opening the* tea-urn to show me a 
whole lemon, skin and all, swimming upon the steaming 
decoction of leaves. The combination of rind and the 
cream with which I had " trimmed " my share of the too- 
fragrant beverage, was indescribable.. Still, I rather 
'ike tea a la Russe without lemon-peel and cream. 



THIRD WEEK TUESDAY. 575 



ffiijtrb 



Soup and Bouilli. 
Stewed Potatoes. Mixed Pickles. 



Alice's Pudding. 

SOUP AND BOUILLI. 

6 Ibs. brisket of beef, all in one neat cut, with as little 
bone as possible ; 3 carrots ; i small head of cauliflower 
cut into clusters ; 4 turnips ; 6 small onions ; bunch of 
sweet herbs ; 2 blades of mace ; i tablespoonful of but- 
ter cut up in flour ; dice of fried bread ; pepper, salt, and 
French mustard. 

Cover the meat well with water ; bring to a very slow 
boil, and continue this for four hours, skimming often and 
filling up with boiling water as that in the pot sinks. At 
the end of that time, put in the vegetables, cut into neat 
squares. Season, and simmer about forty-five minutes, or 
until the carrots are tender. Take up the meat ; rub over 
with butter and cover upon a heated dish. Strain the 
soup from the vegetables without breaking them, and set 
the colander in which they are left over boiling water 
until after the soup is served. Strain this again through 
a soup-sieve, and pour upon plenty of fried bread in the 
tureen. If you like a thicker soup, return it after the 
second straining, to the fire with a handful of tapioca, or 
of German sago, ready-soaked, and simmer until clear. 
When the soup is out of the way, arrange the vegetables 
in little heaps around the beef, all of a kind together. 
Put a cupful of the soup ovar the fire, stir in the floured 
butter, mustard, pepper, and salt, to your liking ; boil up 
and pour over the beef. 

STEWED POTATOES. 
See Wednesday, First Week in October. 

ALICE'S PUDDING. 

i quart of milk ; 5 eggs ; i cup dry crumbs ; $ cup 
strawberry, or other sweet jam ; cup of sugar. 



576 OCTOBER. 



Butter a pudding-dish ; strew crumbs on the bottom ; 
pour in the jam ; cover this with the rest of the crumbs ; 
wet with milk. Heat the quart of milk to scalding ; take 
from the fire and pour upon the beaten yolks and sugar. 
Then, whip in the frothed whites. Heat this three min-, 
utes, and put upon the layer of crumbs in the dish, 
spoonful by spoonful, letting each soak in well before 
adding more. Bake in a steady oven until " set," and 
slightly colored. Eat cold with cream. 



tl)trtr 



Poor Roger's Soup. 

Beefsteak and Onions. Canned Succotash, 

Potatoes a la Parisienne. Spinach. 

Baked Apple Dumpling. 

POOR ROGER'S SOUP. 

. The bones of yesterday's roast boiled down in 3 pints 
of water to i pint ; i pint of stock left from yesterday's 
soup ; 6 parboiled potatoes sliced thin ; cabbage sliced 
small ; i tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour ; i sliced 
and fried onion ; i quart of hot water. 

Parboil the cabbage ; then put it on, with the potatoes 
and fried onion, in the hot water ; cook until the cabbage 
is tender, and the potatoes broken to pieces. Take the 
fat from the top of your sto*ck ; add the latter to the cab- 
bage-soup ; season to taste ; stir in the floured butter ; 
cook five minutes, and pour out. 

BEEFSTEAK AND ONIONS. 

Flatten the steak with the broad side of a hatchet ; 
broil over clear coals ; lay upon a chafing-dish, and pom 
ever it a little melted butter in which has been stewed a 
quarter of an onion sliced. Strain out the onion ; pep- 



THIRD WEEK WEDNESDAY. 577 

per and salt the butter ; squeeze in the juice of half a 
lemon. "After it is poured over the steak, put a hot cover 
over it, and let it stand five minutes before serving. 
Steak thus treated has a delicious flavor. 



CANNED SUCCOTASH. 

Put on in enough boiling water to cover it. Salt 
slightly ; stew half an hour ; turn off most of the water, 
and put in as much cold milk. Heat to boiling ; stir in 
a good lump of butter rolled in flour ; pepper and salt ; 
simmer ten minutes, and pour out. 

POTATOES A LA PARISIENNE. 

Pare, and cut into small balls with your potato-gouge. 
(The scraps should be boiled and mashed.) Boil in hot 
salted water, until tender ; drain, and drop into a sauce- 
pan containing a cupful of drawn butter seasoned with 
pepper and parsley. Stew three minutes. 

SPINACH. 

Pick off the leaves, and boil in plenty of hot salted 
water. Drain ; chop upon a board, or in a tray ; put 
into a saucepan, with a tablespoonful of butter, a little 
sugar, pepper and salt, nutmeg, and a few spoonfuls of 
milk or cream. Stir, and heat until bubbling hot ; pour 
out upon small squares of fried bread. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

i quart of prepared flour ; 2 tablespoonfuls of lard, and 
i of butter ; i saltspoonful of salt ; 2 cups of milk. 

Mix into a paste, rubbing shortening and salt into the 
flour, then wetting with the milk. Roll out less than half 
an inch thick ; cut into squares ; lay a pared and cored 
apple in the centre of each ; bring the corners together, 
and join neatly. Lay in a buttered baking-pan, the 
j Dined edges down, and bake to a nice brown. Glaze 
with white of egg just before you take them up. Sift 
powdered sugar over them, and eat with hot, sweet sauce. 

25 



578 OCTOBER. 

iDeek. 



Dieppe Soup. 

Stewed Chickens. Boiled Bea?s. 

Browned Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. 



Tapioca Pudding. 

DIEPPE SOUP. 

2 Ibs. of beef, cut from the shin, and sliced; 2 sH;ed 
onions ; 2 carrots ; i teaspoonful of sugar ; dripping for 
frying ; 3 stalks of celery ; 5 quarts of water ; cup of 
farina, soaked two hours in a little milk. Pepper and salt. 

Flour, and fry the beef with the onion, sugar, pepper, 
and salt, to a good brown in the dripping. Put into a 
soup-pot, with five quarts of water, the carrots, and cel- 
ery, and cook slowly four hours, at least. Strain, cool, 
and skim ; season ; add the farina, and simmer half an 
hour longer, stirring faithfully. 

STEWED CHICKENS. 

Truss and stuff the fowls as for roasting. Cover the 
bottom of the pot with thin slices of salt pork or corned 
ham ; strew a little onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
chopped, three blades of mace, a pinch of lemon-peel, a 
little salt and pepper, upon this. Put in the chickens ; 
cover with weak broth water will do, but is not so good 
cover closely and stew tender. The time will depend 
upon the size and age of the chickens. When done, take 
up and keep hot. Strain and skim the gravy ; thicken 
with browned flour, and pour over the fowls. 

BOILED BEANS. 

If you use dried beans, soak over night. Put on in 
cold water, and cook slowly until soft. Drain, pepper, 
salt, and butter ; then dish hot. 

BROWNED POTATOES. 

Work cold mashed potatoes soft with milk and butter ; 
season with pepper and salt. Make into round, flat 
cakes ; flour well, and bake brown in a quick oven. 



THIRD WEEK FRIDAY. 579 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Pare, slice, and stew twenty minutes. Season with 
pepper, salt, sugar, a lump of butter rolled in flour ; put 
in a tablespoonful of fine bread-crumbs, and simmer ten 
minutes longer. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

i cup tapioca, soaked six hours in a little cold water ; 
i quart of milk ; i large cup of sugar ; 5 eggs ; grated 
peel of ^ lemon ; a little salt. 

Scald the milk, and pour upon the yolks and sugar ; 
beat the soaked tapioca into this custard ; salt ; whip in 
the frothed whites. Pour into a buttered mould ; put on 
the top, and set in a pan of boiling water, and this into a 
moderate oven. Cook three-quarters of an hour, or until 
firm. Turn out carefully, and eat with sauce. 



l)trir 

Clam Soup. 

Boiled Cod. Puree of Eggs. 

Mashed Potatoes. Cauliflower au Gratin. 

Coffee Meringue Custard. 

CLAM SOUP. 

50 clams ; i quart of milk ; i pint of water ; 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter ; 12 whole peppers ; a few bits of cay- 
enne-pods ; 6 blades of mace ; salt to taste ; i tablespoon- 
ful of corn-starch. 

Cut the hard parts from the clams, and set by the soft 
portions. Put the hard bits into the soup-pot, with the 
clam-liquor, the water, and spices. Boil half an hour ; 
strain, salt, and return to the fire, with the soft parts. 
When the soup begins to simmer, stir in the butter and 
corn-starch. Stew five minutes, and pour into the tureen 



58O OCTOBER. ' 

Stir in the boiling milk, and serve. Send oyster-crackers 
and sliced lemon around with it. 



BOILED COD. 

Sew up the fish in a clean bit of mosquito-net, and cook 
in boiling salted water, fifteen minutes to the pound. Un- 
wrap, and pour over it a few spoonfuls of sauce, putting 
the rest into a boat. 

SAUCE. 

A cupful of the liquor in which your fish is cooking, 
strained and skimmed. Put into a saucepan ; heat, and 
stir in a great spoonful of butter rolled in a teaspoonful 
of flour. When this boils, add the pounded yolks of two 
boiled eggs, and a tablespoonful of minced cucumber 
pickle. Boil once, and serve. Garnish the fish with rings 
of whites of eggs, and pickles, sliced. 

PURE OF EGGS. 

8 hard-boiled eggs ; 3 raw eggs ; i cup of gravy saved 
from yesterday's chickens ; i tablespoonful of butter ; 
chopped parsley ; pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; some fine 
crumbs ; fried bread. 

Pound the boiled yolks, and work in butter, parsley, 
seasoning, and the raw eggs. Beat stiff, and rub through 
a colander. Mince the whites until they are like coarse 
snow, and stir over the fire in the hot gravy five minutes, 
with a tablespoonful of crumbs. Make a mound of the 
yolks in the middle of a stone-china dish ; form a ring of the 
whites around them, with an outer wall of triangles of fried 
bread. Sift fine crumbs over all, and brown nicely upon 
the upper grating of the oven. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Prepare as usual, and send in with the fish-course. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. 

Boil, tied up in a net, in plenty of hot salted water, 
forty minutes, if large. Put into a buttered bake-dish. 



THIRD WELK SATURDAY. 5^1 

blossom upward ; cover with drawn butter ; sift fine 
crumbs over it, and set in the oven ten minutes to color 
the crumbs. 

COFFEE CUSTARD MERINGUE. 

6 eggs whites and yolks separated ; i quart of milk ; 
i cup of sugar ; i cup of strong made coffee. 

Whip the whites to a stiff froth with a little powdered 
sugar. Heat the milk with a pinch of soda in it ; lay 
the meringue upon it in great spoonfuls, turning when the 
lower side is poached. Lift with a skimmer, as each 
spoonful is done, and lay upon a sieve to cool and drain. 
When all are out of the milk, pour it upon the beaten 
yolks and sugar. Return to the farina-kettle, and stir 
until it begins to thicken. Take from the fire, and stir in 
die hot coffee. When all are cold put the meringues into 
a glass bowl, and pour the custard over them. The me~ 
ringues will at once rise to the surface, coated with the 
custard. 



llleek. 0atttrba. 



Excellent Stock Soup. Veal Collops with Tomato Sauco, 

Rice Croquettes a la Princesse. 
Boiled Potatoes. Squash, 

Lausanne Pudding. 

EXCELLENT STOCK SOUP. 

i knuckle of veal, all the bones well cracked, and all 
the meat, except what is taken off your collops ; 4 pig's 
feet, cleaned and cracked ; 3 Ibs. of beef marrow-bones ; 
bunch of herbs ; 3 onions ; 3 carrots, sliced ; 6 blades of 
mace ; 4 stalks of celery ; 9 quarts of water ; pepper and 
salt ; % cup of rice. 

Put the meat, bones, and feet on in the water over- 
night, cooking two hours before the fire goes down, and 
leaving on the range in the pot (which must be scrupu 



582 OCTOBER. 

lonsly clean) all night, salting it a little. In the morning, 
add the herbs and vegetables, and simmer gently six hours. 
Take from the fire, and strain, picking out the meat and 
bones, and rubbing the vegetables through the colander. 
Put meat and bones into the stock-pot ; salt and pepper 
highly, and pour on them all the soup, except two quarts. 
There should be at least six quarts of strong broth, the 
extra waste in boiling having been made up by adding hot 
water from time to time. Season the stock well, and put 
away in a cold place. Cool and skim to-day's soup, sea- 
son, and put over the fire with the rice. Simmer until 
the rice is tender. 

VEAL COLLOPS WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 
Cut three pounds of meat- from your veal knuckle, and 
this into pieces two inches long and one wide. Flatten 
with the side of a hatchet ; flour well, and fry in dripping, 
with half of a sliced onion. Put a cup of your soup-stock 
into a saucepan, season well, and lay in the collops. 
Have ready a cup of tomato sauce, rubbed smooth through 
a colander, and seasoned. When the collops have stewed 
ten minutes in the broth, add a tablespoonful of the sauce, 
and the same quantity, at intervals of five minutes, until 
all is used up. Be careful to follow these directions im- 
plicitly. When the sauce is all in, put in a tablespoonful 
of butter rolled thickly in browned flour. Simmer five 
minutes, and serve in a deep dish. 

RICE CROQUETTES A LA PRINCESSE. 

2 cups boiled rice ; 2 eggs ; cup of milk ; pepper 
and salt; a boiled sweetbread, minced fine, or boiled 
fowl-giblets, or any cold meat minced, and worked to a 
paste with the pounded yolks of two boiled eggs, and well 
seasoned with butter, salt, cayenne and a pinch of lemon ; 
lard for frying. 

Mix beaten eggs and milk with salt into the hot rice, 
and stir in a saucepan until stiff. Let it get cold ; make 
into thin round cakes ; enclose a spoonful of the meat- 
paste in the centre of each, and roll the rice-ball round. 
Dip in beaten egg, then in cracker-dust, and fry carefull} 
in plenty of hot lard. Drain and serve hot. 



FOURTH WEEK SUNDAY. $83 

BOILED POTATOES. 
See Monday of this week. 

SQUASH. 

Pare, slice and cook soft in boiling water. Drain, mash, 
and press in a hot colander ; season with pepper, salt, 
and butter, and smooth in a mound within a deep dish. 

LAUSANNE PUDDING. 

i pint of milk ; 3 eggs ; 2 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch ; 
\ cup of sugar ; i teaspoonful of vanilla or other essence ; 
sweet jam or jelly. 

Heat the milk, and stir in the corn-starch wet up with 
cold milk. . Stir until thick. Take from the fire, and 
beat in sugar and egg, with flavoring. Melt a tablespoon- 
ful of butter in a square, shallow baking-pan ; pour in the 
pudding and bake half an hour. Take it up ; spread, 
while hot, with the sweetmeats ; roll up closely, lay upon 
a dish, and sift sugar over it. Cut in slices an inch and a 
half wide. 



Jourtt) 



White Broth. 
Roast Beef. Yorkshire Pudding. 

Browned Sweet Potatoes. 
Fried Parsnips. Made Mustard. 

Potato Pudding. 
Grated Cheese. 



WHITE BROTH. 

Remove the fat from your jelly-stock. Take out 
enough for to-day's use ; also, two of the pig's feet. Cut 
the best part of the meat from these into as neat squares 
as you can contrive, and lay aside. Heat the stock, with 



OCTOBER. 

the addition of a cup of boiling water, and put, meantime, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter into a clean saucepan. 
When it heats, stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour. Stir 
fast, and, to keep it from browning, put in, now and then, 
a few spoonfuls of soup. Cook five minutes ; add grad- 
ually to the soup ; put in the pieces of meat, with more 
seasoning, if required ; boil once, pour into the tureen, 
and add a cup of boiling milk. 

ROAST BEEF. 

Lay in a dripping-pan, pour a cupful of boiling water 
over it, and cook, basting often, about ten minutes per 
pound. If there is much fat on it, cover these parts with 
a paste of flour and water, until the meat is nearly done. 
Ten minutes before taking it up, dredge with flour, then 
baste once with butter. If you like made gravy with beef, 
pour off the fat from the top ; thicken with browned flour, 
season and boil once. 



YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

10 tablespoonfuls prepared flour ; i cup of cold water; 
2 cups of milk ; 3 eggs ; salt. 

Rub the flour smooth in the water and milk ; salt, beat 
in the yolks, and, just before putting into the oven, whip in 
the beaten whites. Put two tablespoonfuls from the fat 
" top " of your beef gravy into a square baking-pan ; 
pour in the batter, and put into the other oven until 
" set." Baste then, every few minutes, with the hot drip- 
ping until it is of a rich brown. Cut in squares, and lay 
about the meat. Some much prefer this Yorkshire Pud- 
ding to that cooked with the meat. 

BROWNED SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil with their skins on about twenty minutes. Peel 
carefully. Pour off nearly all the fat from the top of the 
beef-dripping. Lay the potatoes in the pan around the 
meat, and baste when you baste the beef. Drain well in 
a colander. 



FOURTH WEEK MONDAY. $85 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 

Boil tender in hot, salted water ; scrape, slice length- 
wise when they are nearly cold ; flour all over, and fry in 
salted lard or dripping. Drain well. 

POTATO PUDDING. 

i Ib. mashed potato, rubbed through a colander ; lb. 
butter, creamed with the sugar 6 eggs whites and yolks 
beaten separately ; i lemon, squeezed into the hot potato ; 
i teaspoonful of nutmeg, and the same of mace ; 2 cups 
white sugar. 

Beat the yolks into the creamed butter and sugar ; add 
the potato. Beat very hard, and whip in the whisked 
whites, with the spice. Bake in open shells of paste on 
Saturday. Send grated cheese around with it. 



JFourtl) tDeek. IKonJrag. 

Macaroni Soup. 

Rechauffee of Beef. Potatoes au Gratin. 

Kidney Beans, Fricasseed. Grated Horseradish. 

Grapes, Boiled Chestnuts. Apples. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

Heat the contents of your stock-pot to boiling, after 
adding a pint of hot water. Cook a few minutes ; strain 
off as much broth as you want for to-day, and return the 
rest to the jar when you have scalded it well. Put in 
more pepper and salt, and put by for future soups. 

Heat and season the soup left out for to-day ; add a 
handful of macaroni, broken short, and cooked twenty 
minutes in hot, salted water. Simmer five minutes. 

RECHAUFFE'S OF BEEF. 

Trim your cold roast neatly. Make incisions at short 
distances apart, and thrust strips of fat salt pork quite 

25* 



586 OCTOBER. 

through it. Set in * a round, deep baking-pan. Sprinkle 
with minced onion, and pour over it a pint of gravy the 
remains of that which accompanied the roast, mixed with 
some from the stock-pot. Season the gravy well with 
pepper, salt, minced herbs, and a suspicion of French 
mustard. It should be cold, and the oven slow, for the 
first hour never fast. Cover very tightly ; open the 
dish at the end of one hour, and turn the meat, but pay it 
no further attention until two hours have passed. Then 
dish it ; strain the gravy ; thicken as much as you want 
for your meat with browned flour ; boil up, and pour over 
the beef. The rest can be set by for other uses. If the 
beef has been cooked slowly and steadily, it will be tender 
and most savory. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Boil and mash the potatoes ; press firmly in a greased 
bowl ; turn out upon a shallow pie-plate, also greased ; 
wash all over with raw egg ; sift fine crumbs upon it, and 
brown in a quick oven. Slip to a hot, flat dish. 

KIDNEY BEANS FRICASSEED. 

Soak all night. Next day, put on in cold water, at the 
back of the range, and cook tender. When you turn your 
beef, after an hour's cooking, dip out half 'a cupful of the 
gravy. Cool and skim it ; add a little minced parsley 
and onion, and, when your beans are soft, pour off nearly 
all the water, and add this gravy. There should be just 
enough to keep them from getting dry. Simmer ten min- 
utes, and dish without draining. 

GRAPES, BOILED CHESTNUTS, APPLES. 

Arrange the grapes in a fruit-dish, ornamented with 
leaves. Put on the chestnuts in warm (not hot) water, 
slightly salted. Bring to a boil, and cook fast fifteen min- 
utes. Drain in a colander ; stir a spoonful of butter intc 
the chestnuts, tossing in the colander until dry. Serve in 
a deep dish, lined with a napkin. 

Polish the apples, and lay a fruit-knife at each rlace. 



FOURTH WEEK TUESDAY. 



Jotull) tUeck. ue0traj). 

Beef-olives Soup. 

Mutton Stew, with Dumplings. Baked Potatoes. 

Stewed Tomatoes. Beets Sautes. 

Omelette Meringue. 

BEEF-OLIVES SOUP. 

Chop a few slices of the twice-served cold beef very fine ; 
mix with one-third as much cold mashed potato, wet with 
gravy ; season well ; bind with a beaten egg, and stir in a 
greased saucepan until quite stiff. Let it get cold ; make 
into small olive-shaped balls ; flour, and lay aside. Strain 
off the liquid from your stock-pot : bring to a boil, adding 
hot water or seasoning, as the case may require ; boil, and 
skim for five minutes, and drop in the beef-olives carefully. 
Simmer one minute fast boiling would break them and 
pour out. If you have any pickled olives in the house, 
add a dozen to the soup when you put in the beef-balls. 

MUTTON STEW, WITH DUMPLINGS. 

3 Ibs. of lean mutton, cut into short strips ; J Ib. of salt 
pork, chopped ; \ onion, minced ; chopped parsley and 
thyme; T cup of milk ; i tablespoonful of flour wet up 
with the milk ; pepper and salt. 

Put on the mutton in enough cold water to cover it, and 
cook very slowly one hour. Then add the pork, onion, 
pepper, and herbs, and stew an hour longer. Make out 
a little paste, in the proportion used for the apple dump- 
lings on Wednesday, Third Week in October ; cut into 
strips, and drop into the stew. Cook ten minutes ; take 
out meat and dumplings with a skimmer ; lay upon a dish ; 
add milk and flour to the gravy ; stir until thickened, and 
pour over the contents of the dish. 

. BAKED POTATOES. 

Wash well ; lay in a good oven, and bake until soft 
Wrap in a napkin, and dish. 



588 OCTOBER. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Open the can an hour before cooking, and pour out 
Put into a saucepan with a little minced onion, and stevr 
twenty minutes. Season with sugar, pepper, salt, and a 
good piece of butter rolled in flour, and cook ten minutes 
more. 

BEETS SAUTES. 

Wash, cut off the tops, and boil more than an hour. 
Scrape, cut into round slices, and put into a saucepan with 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, one of vinegar, and pepper 
and salt to taste. Heat, toss, and stir ten minutes. 

OMELETTE MERINGUE. 

8 eggs ; juice of a lemon, and half the grated peel ; 4 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar ; a little sweet jam or 
jelly ; a pinch of salt ; but.ter. 

Beat eight yolks and four whites light ; add salt, lemon- 
juice, and a tablespoonful of powdered sugar. Put a 
tablespoonful of butter in a frying-pan, and when it heats, 
run it all over the bottom. Pour in the omelette, shaking 
and loosening from the sides with a spatula. So soon as 
it is done at the edges sufficiently to be folded, lay a great 
spoonful of jam or jelly upon it ; fold over, and turn out 
upon a stone-china dish. The meringue, made of the 
remaining whites and sugar, should be ready beaten with 
the lemon-peel. Heap upon the omelette, and set upon 
the upper grating of the oven to " set " and brown. 



Jburtl) 



Barley Cream Soup. 

Boiled Ham. Chopped Cabbage. 

Corn Pudding. Beet-root Salad. 

Drunken Dominie. 



BARLEY CREAM SOUB. 

3 Ibs. lean veal ; i onion ; \ Ib. pearl barley ; 4 quart! 
of water : salt, pepper, and a cup of milk. 



FOURTH WEEK WEDNESDAY. 589 

Cut the veal and onion very small ; put on with the 
barley. Boil slowly until reduced to two quarts. Strain, 
rubbing the barley through a sieve. Season with pepper 
and salt ; simmer three minutes. It should be white and 
thick as cream, when you have added the cup of boiling 
milk, after which it must not boil. 

BOILED HAM. 

Soak a ham four or five hours. Scrub it well, and put 
on to boil in plenty of cold water. Cook eighteen or twenty 
minutes to the pound. When done, leave in the water one 
hour in the open air, or where it will cool rapidly. Take 
off the skin carefully ; rub all over with flour ; sift fine 
crumbs over the top and sides, and set ten minutes in a 
quick oven. Wind frilled paper about the shank, and 
where the paper joins the body of the ham, twine a wreath 
of parsley. 

CHOPPED CABBAGE. 

Cut off stalks and green leaves, and quarter a cabbage 
Boil fifteen minutes in hot salted water ; pour this off, and 
cover the cabbage with pot-liquor, taken from the ham- 
kettle, and the fat skimmed off. Cook tender ; drain, 
pressing hard ; chop, and again drain ; season with pep- 
per, salt, and a little vinegar, and dish very hot. 

CORN PUDDING. 

Drain a can of corn. Chop the grains fine with a chop- 
ping-knife. Add a cup of milk, three eggs, a tablespoon- 
ful of melted butter, pepper and salt to taste. Beat all 
together, and bake, covered, forty-five minutes, in a good 
oven ; then brown. 

BEET- ROOT SALAD. 

Chop the cold beets left from yesterday into ratber 
coarse dice. Mix with an equal quantity of cold chopped 
potatoes, and pour over them such a dressing as was used 
for Bavarian Salad, Thursday, Second Week in October. 

DRUNKEN DOMINIE. 

i long or square stale sponge-cake ; Ib. of citron ; i 
glass of brandy ; i cup of sherry wine ; i pint of milk ; 3 
eggs ; i cup Df sugar. 



590 OCTOBER. 

Cut the citron into strips, and stick in regular rows in 
the top of the cake. Six hours before you will want to 
use it, pour over it, a little at a time, the liquor. It 
should absorb it all, and hold it with Dutch perseverance. 
Heat the milk ; pour upon the beaten yolks and sugar. 
Stir and cook until it thic"kens. When cold, pour around 
the cake, as it lies upon a long dish, and cover the domi- 
nie and his bed with a meringue of the whites, beaten up 
with a little sugar. The citron spikes should be just visi- 
ble through the snowy blanket. 



Jburtl) Itleek. 



A Western Soup. 

Roast Chickens and Cresses. Polenta. 

Stewed Salsify. Mashed Potatoes. 

Apricot Trifle. 



A WESTERN SOUP. 

i sheep's head, cleaned, with the skin on ; 4 cleaned 
pig's feet ; 2 onions ; 2 carrots ; 2 turnips ; bunch of 
sweet herbs ; 6 quarts of water ; 12 whole peppers ; salt 
to taste. 

Put the head and feet into the soup-pot, and pour over 
them the water. When they have boiled slowly two 
hours, and been often skimmed, put in the sliced vegeta- 
bles and herbs, and cook three hours longer, replenishing 
with boiling water as the liquid sinks. There should be 
five quarts of soup. Strain ; lay aside the sheep's tongue 
to cool, with the meat from one of the feet. Season the 
rest of the meat and bones; put into the stock-pot ; pour 
over it all the soup not needed for to-day, also the 
skimmed pot-liquor from your ham, if it was corned not 
smoked. Season, and set in a cold place. Cool and skim 
the soup meant for to-day ; season, and put in the sliced 
tongue and dice of pig's feet. Boil one minute. 



FOURTH WEEK THURSDAY. 59 1 

* 

' ROAST CHICKENS AND CRESSES. 

Roast as directed on Thursday, First Week in October, 
and lay a thick border of fresh water-cresses around them 
on the dish, with a bunch under or over each wing. 

POLENTA. 

i pint of boiling water ; i cup of coarse yellow meal, 
or enough for thick mush ; a little salt. 

Put the water over the fire ; add the salted meal, and 
stir constantly until it has cooked twenty minutes, and 
bubbles up in the middle. Turn upon a flat dish, and, 
when cold and stiff, cut into squares ; dip these into flour, 
and fry to a yellow-brown. Drain off the fat. This is a 
favorite dish with the Italian peasantry, who generally, 
however, eat it without frying. 

STEWED SALSIFY. 

Scrape ; clean, without cutting the roots ; drop into 
cold water as you clean them. Put on in boiling water, 
a little salt ; when tender, take out a cupful of the water, 
thicken with two tablespoonfuls of butter rolled thickly in 
flour ; boil up and pepper. Dish the salsify, pour the 
sauce over it, and cover over hot water five minutes, to 
let it soak in. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Prepare as usual. 

APRICOT TRIFLE. 

i can of California apricots ; i quart of milk ; 4 eggs ; 
i cup of sugar ; -J- package of Cooper's gelatine ; 2 table- 
spoonfuls even ones of corn-starch, wet up with milk. 

Sweeten the apricots with half the sugar, and set aside 
in a bowl. Heat the milk .; stir in the corn-starch ; pour 
over the beaten eggs and sugar. Cook until it begins to 
thicken, and pour hot upon the gelatine, which should 
have been soaked in a little cold water, and then dissolved 
in a /ery little hot milk. Beat all up well, and let them 
get cold. Wet a mould; put in a cupful of the custard ; 



592 OCTOBER. 

cover with apricots,* drained from the syrup ; wait fifteen 
minutes, and pour on more cream ; in a few minutes, 
more apricots, and so on until all are used up. Set in 
ice to form, and, when firm, turn out, and pour the apri- 
cot-syrup over the trifle. If the apricots are large, you 
would do well to cut them up. 



Jourtl) tihek. Jribag. 

Peas Porridge. 

Fried Pickerel. Chicken Croquettes. 

Puree of Potatoes. Baked Squash. 

Apple Fritters. 

PEAS PORRIDGE. 

Soak a quart of split peas overnight. Next morning 
put them on to boil in enough cold water to cover them 
well. When this has fairly begun to boil, pour it off, and 
add stock from your store in the stock-jar. Cook slowly, 
taking care it does not burn, until the peas are very soft. 
Rub through a colander and serve. Save a pint as a 
foundation for to-morrow's soup more than a pint, if you 
can. Never forget that soup makes soup. 

FRIED PICKEREL. 

Clean and wash the fish. Wipe carefully inside and 
out. Dredge with flour all over the outside, and fry to a 
nice brown never to a crisp in lard or dripping. Drain 
off the fat ; lay upon a hot dish the head of one fish to 
the tail of the other and garnish with curled parsley and 
quartered lemon. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Chop the meat from your roast chickens, and mix with 
one-third as much mashed potato. Season ; moisten wel 



FOURTH WEEK FRIDAY. 593 

with a gravy made by boiling down the bones and stuffing 
in water, then straining and seasoning it. Beat into the 
mixture one or two whipped eggs ; heat and stir over the 
fire until quite stiff. Turn out and cool ; then roll into 
croquettes, dip in egg and pounded cracker, and fry to a 
golden brown. 

PTJRE"E OF POTATOES. 

Mash the potatoes with butter and milk, working them 
smooth and soft. Season, put over the fire and stir until 
almost stiff. Mound upon a flat dish, and strain over 
them a little of yesterday's gravy, skimmed and heated. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Pare, quarter, boil, and mash the squash. Season with 
pepper, salt, butter, and whip in two beaten eggs. When 
y<Mi have a light cream, turn into a buttered pudding-dish, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

About 10 fine apples, pared, cored, and sliced half an 
inch thick; juice of i lemon; sugar, cinnamon and nut- 
meg ; 3 cups of prepared flour ; nearly 4 cups of milk ; 5 
eggs ; a little salt. 

Spread the slices of apple upon a dish, and sprinkle 
with lemon-juice and sugar. Beat the yolks light ; add 
milk, then the whisked whites and salted flour by 'turns. 
Dip the slices of apple into the batter, turning over and 
over until thoroughly coated, and fry in hot lard, a few at 
a time. Drain upon a hot sieve, and sift powdered sugar, 
cinnamon, an 1 nutmeg upon them. Eat with wine sauce. 



594 OCTOBER. 



Jbitvtl) tlleek. 



Tomato and Pea Soup. 

Calf's Liver and Bacon. Parsnip Fritters. 

Spinach. Sweet Potatoes. 

Bread-and. Raisin Pudding. 



TOMATO AND PEA SOUP. 

Empty a can of tomatoes. Put them over the fire with 
three pints of stock and stew one hour. Strain, rubbing 
the pulp through the colander ; add what was left yester- 
day of the pea porridge ; season to taste, simmer fifteen 
minutes, and pour upon dice of fried bread into the 
tureen. 

CALF'S LIVER AND BACON. 

Wash a fresh liver well, and, when quite ready to cook 
it, cut into long, narrow slices. Dip each in flour highly 
seasoned with pepper and salt. Melt a tablespoonful of 
good dripping in a saucepan ; lay in the liver, the slices 
fitting neatly to one another ; strew with sliced onion, and 
cover entirely with very thin slices of fat salt pork, or 
bacon. Fit a close top on the saucepan ; cook very 
slowly, never allowing it to bubble, for one hour. The 
liver should be steamed, not stewed, much less fried. 
When very tender, take it out and lay upon a dish. Add 
a tablespoonful of tomato sauce to the gravy, thicken with 
browned flour wet with water ; boil once, and pour over 
the liver. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Scrape, and boil in hot salted water until tender. Mash 
them very smooth, picking out all the fibres. Add to four 
large parsnips one beaten egg, a teaspoonful of prepared 
flour, with pepper and salt, and a teaspoonful of milk. 
Make into cakes ; flour, and fry in dripping. Drain well. 

SPINACH. 
See Wednesday, Third Week in October. 



FOURTH WEEK SATURDAY. 595 

SWEET POTATOES. 
See Sunday, Third Week in October. 

BREAD-AND-RAISIN PUDDING. 

i quart of milk ; loaf of stale baker's bread, the crust 
all pared off, and cut into slices half an inch thick ; butter 
to spread the bread ; 4 eggs ; cup of sugar ; j Ib. of 
raisins, seeded and cut into thirds. 

Make a raw custard of eggs, sugar, and milk. Fit slices 
of buttered bread into the bottom of a buttered bake-dish. 
Pour on custard, and strew with raisins. Lay in more 
buttered slices, and so on, until the dish is full. The last 
layer should be well-soaked bread. Cover closely ; set 
in a baking-pan of hot water, and bake an hour and a 
quarter. Turn out; pour hot, sweet sauce over it, and 
send more around with it. 



59<5 NOVEMBER 

. 

NOVEMBER. 
first IDeek. Sunbag. 

Baked Soup. 

Fillet of Veal. Cannelon of Potatoes 

French Beans a la Crime. Tomato Sauce. 



Neapolitainoes. 
Coffee and Whipped Cream. 



BAKED SOUP. 

3 Ibs. of beef; 2 Ibs. of veal; Ib. of lean ham; i 
onion ; 2 carrots ; 2 tablespoonfuls of farina ; i can of 
corn, drained and chopped ; 2 stalks of celery ; pepper 
and salt ; 6 quarts of water. 

Cut the meat into long strips, the vegetables into dice, 
and pack, in alternate layers, in a broad, low jar, that will 
go into the oven. Strew the layers with farina and corn, 
fill up with the water ; cover the jar closely, putting a 
paste of flour and water over the top or about the edges, 
to exclude the air and keep in the steam. Do this on 
Saturday night. At bed-time, set in the oven in a pan of 
cold water, that it may heat gradually as the range warms 
in the morning. Let it bake until dinner-time. Pour 
into a bowl, take out the meat, season, and put it into the 
stock-pot. Pour over it as much as you can spare of the 
soup, season, and set by for to-morrow. Add pepper and 
salt to that left for to-day, and serve. 

FILLET OF VEAL. 

Take out the bone of the joint (you can add it on Sat- 
urday to your baked soup) ; make a deep incision between 
the meat and the " flap," which your butcher will skewer 
around the fillet. Fill this and the hole left by taking 
out the bone with a force-meat of crumbs, chopped salt 



FIRST WEEK SUNDAY. 597 

pork, chopped thyme and parsley, grated lemon-peel, pep- 
per, salt, and the juice of a lemon. Bind the fillet into 
shape with tapes ; cover the top with a paste of flour and 
water, and bake twelve minutes to the pound, putting a 
cup of boiling water into the pan. When done, pull off 
the paste ; dredge with flour, and baste well with butter. 
The meat should have been very freely basted while cook- 
ing. Dish the meat when browned ; season, and thicken 
the gravy ; boil up, and pour into a boat. 

CANNELON OF POTATOES. 

Mash the potatoes thoroughly ; beat light with butter, 
milk, and two raw eggs. Heat in a greased frying pan, 
stirring constantly, until stiff enough to handle. Make 
into a long roll ; brush over with beaten eggs, and sift 
crumbs over it. Lay in a buttered baking-pan, and brown 
nicely in a quick oven. Dish, and pour over it a cup of 
good drawn butter. 

FRENCH BEANS 1 LA CRME. 

Open a can of string-beans ; clip them into short pieces, 
and cook twenty minutes in hot salted water. Drain. 
Have ready, in a saucepan, two tablespoonfuls of cream, 
and as much butter, heated together ; pour upon a beaten 
egg ; return to the saucepan ; season with pepper and 
salt ; stir in a tablespoonful of hot vinegar ; take from the 
fire ; dish the beans, and pour the sauce over them. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Stew the contents of a can of tomatoes twenty minutes. 
Strain and pulp through a colander. Add butter, rolled 
in flour ; a little sugar ; salt and pepper ; cook ten min- 
utes and pour out. 

NEAPOLITAINOES. 

Make enough puff-paste for a pie ; roll out into a sheet 
half an inch thick, and cut into strips three inches long 
and half as wide. Bake in a quick oven. When cold, 
spread half of them with sweet jam or jelly, and stick the 
others over them in pairs the jelly being, of course, in 



59$ NOVEMBER. 

the middle. Ice with a frosting made of the whites of two 
eggs, whipped stiff with half a pound of sugar. 

Make these on Saturday. Pass with them strong, hot 
coffee, with a great spoonful of whipped cream on the 
surface of each cupful. 



JFirst tDttk. fflcmbag. 

Sago Soup. 

Veal and Oyster Pie. Boiled Potatoes. 

Cold Slaw, Stewed Celery. 



Dessert of Fruit and Nuts. 

SAGO SOUP. 

Strain off two quarts of soup from your stock-pot, when 
you have removed the cake of fat from the top ; heat, 
and stir into it half a cup of German sago previously 
soaked in a little cold water. Simmer until the sago is 
dissolved. 

VEAL AND OYSTER PIE. 

Cut the best parts of your cold roast fillet into thin 
dominoes. Put a layer in the bottom of a pudding-dish ; 
sprinkle with the dressing, chopped fine, or with minced 
ham ; cover with oysters ; strew these with pepper, salt, 
butter-bits, a pinch of grated lemon-peel, and squeeze a 
few drops of lemon -juice over them. More veal, etc., 
and, when the dish is full, pour in yesterday's gravy, 
skimmed, and mixed with as much oyster-liquor. Cover 
with a good paste, and bake one hour. Wash over with 
white of egg just before you take it up. The pastry can, 
in cold weather, be made on Saturday, and kept in a cool 
place. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Put on in cold water and bring to a boil. At the end 
of twenty minutes throw in a cup of cold water to arrest 
the boil. Heat up again quickly, and when a fork will 



FIRST WEEK TUESDAY. 599 

pierce the large potatoes easily, pour off the water. Put 
in a little salt, and set the uncovered pot upon the range 
for one minute. Take each potato in a towel, and hold 
in your hand while you strip off the peel. The fashion 
of sticking a fork through them, in order to pare them, 
breaks and cools them. 

COLD SLAW. 
Shred a white cabbage and pour oVer it the following 

Dressing. 

2 beaten eggs; 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar; 6 tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar ; % teaspoonful of made mustard and same 
of pepper and salt ; -J teaspoonful of celery essence ; i 
tablespoonful of butter. 

Mix well, stir over the fire until scalding hot. When 
cold, add to the cabbage. Toss and stir, and set in a 
cold place until wanted. 

STEWED CELERY. 

Scrape and cut the blanched stalks into short pieces. 
Cook tender in boiling water, a little salt. Drain this off, 
add a cup of drawn butter ; simmer five minutes, and 
serve. 

DESSERT OF FRUIT AND NUTS. 

Arrange in accordance with your taste and convenience. 
You may add dried figs to the dish of nuts. 



J"ir0t 

Strong Broth. 

Beefsteak. Omelette with Tomatoes. 

Mashed Potatoes. French Mustard. 

Lemon Puffs. 



STRONG BROTH. 

Heat the contents of your stock-pot, adding a quart or 
more of boiling water. Let all simmer together one 



6OO NOVEMBER. 

hour. Strain and .press out the nourishment from the 
meat. Cool ; skim, add seasoning, and half a cup of 
soaked rice. Cook gently until this is soft. 
N. B. Whenever the stock-pot is empty, scald it with 
sock, and water, and set in the sun. 

BEEFSTEAK. 

Flatten a steak ; broil upon a greased gridiron over a 
clear fire. Lay upon a hot dish ; pepper and salt ; lay 
bits of butter over it, and cover three or four times before 
sending to table. 

OMELETTE, WITH TOMATOES. 

Beat seven eggs just enough to break up the yolks. 
Put a piece of butter as large as an egg in the frying-pan, 
and, when it heats, pour in the eggs. Loosen from the 
sides and bottom of the pan, from the first, by shaking the 
pan, and using your cake-turner. When "set" in the 
middle, cover one half with hot stewed tomatoes ; fold 
over the other half so as to enclose it, and invert the pan 
upon a hot dish. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Whip up soft with butter, milk, and salt, and heap 
roughly upon a deep dish. 

LEMON PUFFS. 

i cup of prepared flour ; cup of powdered sugar ; i 
tablespoonful of butter; 3 beaten eggs; juice and grated 
peel of half a lemon ; 3 tablespoonfuls of milk, with a tiny 
pinch of soda. 

Rub butter and sugar together ; beat in the yolks, the 
milk, whites, flour ; at last, and quickly, the lemon. 
Bake in buttered corn-bread pans, or in pate-pans. The 
oven should be quick. Turn out, and eat hoL with sauce. 



FIRST WEEK WEDNESDAY. 6OI 



Jir0t tlUek. 



Beef Tea, with Noodles. 

Smothered Chickens. Salsify Saute. 

Macaroni au Gratin. Brussels Sprouts. 

English Tapioca Pudding. 

BEEF TEA, WITH NOODLES. 

3 Ibs. of lean beef; 2 onions; 2 turnips ; 2 carrots ; 2 
cloves ; 2 quarts and r pint of water ; a good handful of 
noodles (made according to receipt given on Wednesday, 
First Week in August). 

Mince the vegetables. Put on in the water, and boil 
down to two quarts. Drain off, and pour upon the beef, 
minced very fine. Simmer one hour ; strain, season, and 
put in the noodles. Cook gently twenty minutes. 

SMOTHERED CHICKENS. 

Split a pair of tender chickens down the back, as for 
broiling. Lay in a dripping-pan ; pour over them a cup 
of boiling water, in which has been dissolved a great 
spoonful of butter. Invert another pan over this one, to 
keep in the steam, and cook, basting often, until the 
chickens are russet-colored all over, and very tender. 
Baste twice with butter at the last. Dish the chickens ; 
thicken, season, and boil up ; then pour part over the 
chickens, the rest into a boat. 

SALSIFY SAUT!S. 

Scrape and cut the salsify-roots into pieces two inches 
long ; cook tender in boiling water, slightly salt. Shake 
and drain in a colander, to get rid of all the water. Have 
in a frying- or saucepan two or three spoonfuls of butter, 
with a little pepper. When hot, put in me salsify. Heat 
and toss five minutes, but do not let it brown. S^rve 
/ery hot. It is exceedingly nice. 
26 



6O2 NOVEMBER. 

MACARONI AU GRATIN. 

Break half a pound of macaroni into inch lengths. 
Make a weak broth by diluting the remains of yesterday's 
soup with hot water, and straining it. When it boils, sea- 
son well, and put in the macaroni. Cook nntil tender, 
but not broken. Drain off the liquor ; put the hot maca- 
roni upon a stone-china dish ; stir a good piece of butter 
through it ; sift over it a mixture of grated cheese and fine 
bread-crumbs. Set upon the upper grating of the oven to 
brown. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Cook about twenty-five minutes in boiling salt water. 
Drain ; season with pepper, salt, and butter ; stir these in 
well, and dish. 

ENGLISH TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

i cup of tapioca, soaked two hours in a pint of the 
milk ; 3 pints of milk ; 5 eggs ; 2 tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter ; i cup of sugar ; \ Ib. raisins, seeded, and cut in half ; 
grated peel of half a lemon. 

Put the soaked tapioca in a farina-kettle, and surround 
with lukewarm water. Bring to a boil, and, when soft all 
through, add the creamed butter and sugar ; then the 
eggs; next, the tapioca; finally, the fruit. Bake one 
hour in a buttered dish. Eat hot, with sauce. 



Jirst IDttk. ffil)ttr0lmg. 

Mutton Soup. 

Roast Rabbits. Cheese Custards. 

Stewed Corn. Lima Beans. 

Cocoa Pudding. 

MUTTON SOUP. 

3 Ibs. scrag of mutton bones cracked and meat 
chopped ; 2 turnips ; 2 onions ; chopped parsley ; peppei 



FIRST WEEK THURSDAY. 603 

and salt ; 3 quarts of water ; cup of barley, soaked two 
hours in a little water. 

Put on meat and vegetables with the bones in the 
water, and simmer three hours and a half. There should 
be two quarts of soup. Strain, cool, and season ; add the 
barley, and cook gently until this is soft. 

ROAST RABBITS. 

Skin, clean with great care, and wash a pair of fat rab- 
bits or hares stuff with a force-meat of crumbs and 
chopped fat salt pork, seasoned with onion, thyme, pepper 
and salt. Sew tip with fine thread ; bind the legs to the 
body in a kneeling posture, and lay in the dripping-pan. 
Pour over them a cupful of boiling water, and cover as 
you did the chickens yesterday. Baste with butter twice, 
with their own gravy twice, and twice, at last, with butter. 
Just before you take them up, dredge with flour and give 
a final baste with butter. Dish when you have clipped 
and drawn out the threads. Thicken and season the 
gravy, and pour into a gravy-boat. 

CHEESE CUSTARDS. 

6 tablespoonfuls of finely grated cheese ; 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter ; 4 eggs ; i cup of milk, with a teaspoonful 
of corn-starch stirred in it ; salt and pepper ; soda. 

Beat the eggs very light, and pour upon them the milk 
heated (with a pinch of soda) and thickened with the corn- 
starch. While still warm, add pepper, salt, butter, and 
cheese. Beat up well and pour into greased custard-cups. 
Bake in a quick oven about fifteen minutes, or until high 
and brown. Serve at once, as a separate course, passing 
bread and butter with them. They should follow the soup 
directly, or be served just before the dessert. 

STEWED CORN. 

Empty a can of corn into a saucepan and cover with 
hot -salted water. Cook half an hour, drain off the water, 
add a cup of milk, and, when this boils, a tablespoonful of 
butter rolled in flour. Pepper and salt to taste ; simme/ 
five minutes and serve. 



604 NOVEMBER. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Soak, the dried beans overnight, changing the water 
twice. In the morning put on to cook in cold water, 
with a clean piece of streaked fat pork or bacon, an inch 
or so square. When the beans are soft, drain ; take out 
the pork and dish ; seasoning with butter, pepper and salt. 

COCOA PUDDING. 

i cup of fine crumbs ; i quart of milk ; 4 eggs ; 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter; i scant cup of sugar; 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of grated cocoa, or of cocoatina ; i teaspoonful of Col- 
gate's vanilla. 

Soak the bread in the milk ; put over the fire in a farina- 
kettle, and stir to a boil. When thick and smooth, stir 
in the butter, the sugar, and the cocoa. Take from the 
fire, pour out ; beat two minutes and whip in the beaten 
yolks, then the whites, which should have been beaten 
stiff. Put into a buttered mould, set in a pan of hot water 
and bake forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Turn 
out and eat with powdered sugar. 



JFir0t tlkek. 



; Milk Soup. 

Ragout of Duck. Canned Green Peas. 

Mashed Potatoes. Celery Salad. 

Sponge Gingerbread, with Chocolate. 



MILK SOUP. 

i 'quart of milk and the same of water ; 2 onions ; 2 
turnips; 2 stalks of celery; i teaspoonful of sugar a 
pinch of soda in the milk ; 2 tablespoonftils of corn-starch 
wet up in cold water ; pepper and salt ; dice of fried 
bi ead ; two tablespoonfuls of butter. 



FIRST WEEK FRIDAY. 605 

Boil chopped onions, turnips and celery in the water 
until soft enough to be pulped through the colander. Do 
this, season, add the water in which they were cooked, 
the milk, and when the soup boils, the corn-starch. At 
last, stir in the butter a little at a time, to prevent oiling. 
Simmer five minutes, and pour upon the fried bread in the 
tureen. 

RAGOUT OF DUCK. 

Clean and wash a duck ; put into the dripping-pan, 
with a large cupful of boiling water, and roast, basting 
often, half an hour. Meanwhile, boil the giblets in a 
pint of water. Take up the duck and joint as for fricas- 
see. Put into a saucepan with the gravy from the drip- 
ping-pan and the water in which the giblets were boiled ; 
add an onion stuck with cloves ; a little salt and pepper. 
Cover and stew gently an hour and a half. Take up the 
duck and keep hot upon a chafing-dish. Strain the gravy ; 
stir in a tablespoonful of butter rubbed in one of browned 
flour, the juice of a lemon, and a glass of wine. Boil up 
and pour over the duck. 

CANNED GREEN PEAS. 

Turn the peas into a saucepan ; cover with boiling 
water, and cook twenty-five minutes. Drain well ; add 
pepper, salt and butter, and dish. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Prepare as on Tuesday of this Week. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Scrape and cut the best stalks into short lengths. Put 
into a salad-oowl, and season with a dressing of two table- 
spoonfuls of oil to five of vinegar, one teaspoonful of 
sugar, and a saltspoonful, each, of salt and pepper. 

SPONGE GINGERBREAD AND CHOCOLATE. 
5 cups of flour ; i heaping tablespoonful of butter ; i 
cup of molasses ; i cup of sugar ; i cup of sour milk ; 
2 tablespoonfuls of saleratus, dissolved in hot water ; 2 
teaspoonfuls of ginger ; i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 



606 NOVEMBER. 

Mix molasses, sugar, butter, and spice together. Warm 
slightly, and beat five minutes. Add milk, saleratus, 
lastly the flour. Beat hard five minutes, and bake in a 
broad, shallow pan ; or in small tins. Eat warm with a 
cup of good chocolate, made by stirring six tablespoonftils 
of chocolate, wet with cold water, into a pint of boiling 
water, boiling twenty minutes, adding the milk, and cook- 
ing ten minutes longer, stirring often. 



Jiv0t lUcelx. Saturbag. 

Family Soup. 

Killarney Stew. Baked Tomatoes. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes. Stewed Carrots. 

Boiled Pudding. 



FAMILY SOUP. 

4 Ibs. of lean beef ; 2 Ibs. of cracked bones, of any kind ; 
4 turnips; 3 carrots; 2 onions; 4 stalks of celery; 7 
quarts of water ; pepper and salt. 

Cut the meat into strips, and fry with a sliced onion, 
in dripping, until brown, but not dry. Slice the carrots, 
turnips, and onion ; chop the celery, and put these with 
meat, fried onion, bones, and gravy from the frying-pan, 
into the soup-pot. Add the water, and cook slowly four 
hours after the boil begins. Pour off the liquor there 
should be at least five quarts ; take out meat and bones, 
season highly, and consign to the stock-pot, with all of 
the liquor except that needed for to-day. Salt and pep- 
per, and set away in a cold place. Pulp the vegetables 
into the soup kept out for to day ; cool, skim, season, and 
bring to a gentle boil ; then pour out. 

KILLARNEY STEW. 

3 Ibs. of lean mutton that from the scrag is best, and 
you can use the bones for your soup ; 8 sliced potatoes ; 
i sliced onion ; salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. 



FIRST WEEK S A TURD A Y. 

Put on the mutton, cut into small pieces, with the sliced 
onion, and enough cold water to cover it, and stew very 
slowly two hours, or until tender. Strain the gravy into a 
bowl, and set in cold water to throw up the fat. Put a 
layer of potatoes, sliced thin, in the bottom of a saucepan ; 
cover with meat, peppered and salted ; sprinkle with 
parsley more potatoes, and more meat until all are in. 
Take all the fat from the top of the gravy and strain it 
o/er the meat. Cover closely, and simmer until the 
potatoes are broken to pieces. Half an hour after the 
boil begins should suffice. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Drain the superfluous juice from a can of tomatoes 
into your boiling soup. Lay the tomatoes in a buttered 
pie-dish ; season with pepper, salt, butter and sugar , strew 
bread-crumbs over the top ; add a little gravy saved from 
yesterday's ragout ; cover, and bake half an hour ; then 
brown. 

FRIED SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil, and, when cold, scrape off the skins ; slice length- 
wise, and fry to a light brown in nice dripping, or butter. 
Drain, salt, pepper, and serve hot. 

STEWED CARROTS. 

Scrape, and boil whole forty-five minutes. Drain, and 
cut into round slices a quarter of an inch thick. Put on 
in a cupful of weak broth a little of your soup will do 
and cook gently half an hour. Then add three or four 
tablespoonfuls of milk, a lump of butter rolled in flour, 
with seasoning to taste. Boil up and dish. 

BOILED PUDDING. 

3 cupfuls of flour ; 2 cupfuls of sour milk ; i teaspoon- 
fill of soda dissolved in hot water; cupful powdered 
suet ; a little salt. 

Stir the milk gradually into the flour until a smooth 
batter is the result. Put in suet and salt ; lastly, beat in 
the soda-water thoroughly and quickly. Pour into a but- 
tered would and boil one hour and a half. Turn out and 
eat hot with sauce. 



608 NOVEMBER. 



Tapioca Soup. 
Roast Saddle of Mutton. Potato Puff. 

Salsify Fritters. Kidney Beans a 1'Anglaise 

Currant Jelly. 



Almond Blanc-Mange. 
Cream Rose Cake. 



TAPIOCA SOUP. 

Take the fat from the top of your stock-pot, dip out as 
much as you need for to day; add a large cupful of boil- 
ing water and strain into the soup-kettle. Bring to a boil, 
skim, and put in half a cup of grained tapioca, which has 
been soaked for two hours in a little water. Simmer until 
clear. 

ROAST SADDLE OF MUTTON. 

Lay in the dripping-pan, pour a large cup of boiling 
water over it, and roast twelve minutes to the pound, 
basting often. As it begins to brown, cover with white 
paper, lifting this when you baste the meat. Ten minutes 
before serving, take off the paper, dredge the mutton with 
flour ; baste with butter, and brown. Skim the fat from 
the gravy ; thicken with browned flour, season, and boil 
once, then serve in a boat. Pass currant jelly with the 
mutton. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Whip boiled potatoes light with a fork ; beat in butter, 
salt, and milk, at last, two frothed eggs. Whisk to a cream ; 
make into a smooth mound in a greased bake-dish, and 
set in a quick oven % to brown. 

SALSIFY FRITTERS. 

i bunch of salsify ; 2 beaten eggs ; \ cup of milk 
flour for thin batter ; salt. 

Wash, scrape, and grate the salsify into the batter, made 
of the ingredients given above. It should be as thick 



SECOND WEEK SUNDAY. 609 

when the salsify is in, as pound-cake batter. Drop by 
the spoonful into hot fat. Fry quickly, drain in a hot 
colander, and serve dry and hot. 

KIDNEY BEANS A L'ANGLAISE. 

Soak dried white beans all night in cold water. Ex- 
change in the morning for tepid, and finally put on to 
boil in cold. Heat and cook slowly, and when, after two 
hours, the skin begins to crack, strain off the water, add- 
ing it to your soup-stock if you like, after salting it suffi- 
ciently to warrant its keeping. Put a folded towel upon 
the beans left in the saucepan, and set at the side of the 
range, where they will keep hot, without scorching, far 
half an hour. Sprinkle with salt and pepper ; stir in a 
small bit of butter, and dish. Beans thus cooked will be 
very mealy. 

ALMOND BLANC-MANGE. 

i quart of milk ; i package Cooper's gelatine, soaked 
one hour in a little cold water ; 3 oz. of almonds, 
blanched, dried, and pounded in a mortar, with a little 
rose-water to prevent oiling ; f cup of sugar ; extract bit- 
ter almonds. 

Heat the milk to scalding ; add the gelatine, the 
pounded almonds, and, when you have stirred these over 
the fire ten minutes, the sugar. Strain through thin 
muslin, wringing and squeezing to get out the flavor of 
the almonds. Flavor, and set in a wet mould to form. 
Do this on Saturday. On Sunday, turn it out, and eat 
with powdered sugar and cream. 

CREAM ROSE CAKE. 

+ 

Please consult "BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON AND TEA,' 
page 327. 

a6* 



6lO NOVEMBER. 



Seconb lUeek. 



Irish Broth. 

Cotelettes a la Reine. Stewed Potatoes. 

Savory Bread Pudding. Bean Salad. 

Stewed Apples, with Cream and Cake. 



IRISH BROTH. 

Strain off as much soup from the stock-pot as you 
need for to day. Heat and skim; stir in a large cupful 
of mashed potato, rubbed through a colander ; season to 
taste ; simmer ten minutes, and add a great spoonful of 
butter rolled in flour. Boil up fairly, and serve. 

COTELETTES 1 LA REINE. 

Cut thick slices of the most nearly underdone portions 
of your roast mutton. Divide into neat squares about 
three inches across ; dip each in thick drawn butter, in 
which the yolks of two eggs have been cooked. Lay the 
cutlets to cool upon a broad dish. When the creamy 
coating is cold and firm, roll each in pounded cracker, 
and fry a few at a time in hot lard or dripping. As 
each is lightly browned, take up with a skimmer, and 
drain off the fat. Arrange in a dish, overlapping one 
another. 

STEWED POTATOES. 

Pare ; cut into dice; throw into cold water, and leave 
there half an hour. Put on to cook in boiling salted 
water; stew twenty minutes. Drain off most of the water, 
and fill up with cold milk. When this boils, stir in a lump 
of butter rolled in flour, with chopped parsley. Cook 
gently five minutes longer. 

SAVORY BREAD PUDDING. 

Soak two cups of bread-crumbs in a cupful of yester- 
day's gravy, diluted with a little of your soup-stock. Add 
a cup of boiling milk, in which a pinch of soda has beep 



SECOND WEEKTUESDAY. 6ll 

stirred ; beat to a smooth batter ; add half a cupful of 
minced cold meat, three eggs, pepper, and salt. Pour 
into a buttered bake-dish, after beating all up light, and 
bake in a quick oven. Serve in the dish, and pass a little 
good gravy, or drawn butter, with it. 

BEAN SALAD. 

Put cold beans left from yesterday into a salad-bowl, 
and pour over it such a dressing as you prepared for Cold 
Slaw, on Monday, First Week in November. 

STEWED APPLES, CREAM, AND CAKE. 

Pare and core juicy pippins. Put a cupful of water, 
and one of sugar, into a bake-dish. Lay in the pippins ; 
cover, and cook slowly until clear and tender. They 
should be turned once while cooking. Set away, still 
covered, in the bake-dish, to cool, on Saturday. On 
Monday, put them into a glass dish, and send cream and 
cake to table with them. 



Second tlUek. 



Mutton and Oyster Soup. 

Beefsteak au Maitre d'H6tel. Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Stewed Onions. Mashed Squash. 



Orange Pudding. 

MUTTON AND OYSTER SOUP. 

Crack the bone of your cold mutton, and chop the 
refuse bits left from the roast. Put on in two quarts of 
water, and boil down to one. Strain, cool, skim, and add 
to it a quart of stock. If no liquor is left in the stock- 
pot for this purpose, add two quarts of water to the meat, 
bones, etc., in the bottom, and boil down to one ; then 
strain. Heal the two quarts of broth to boiling ; add two 



6l2 NOVEMBER. 

dozen oysters, with their Ifquor ; season with pepper, salt, 
and a little mace. Boil one minute. Stir in a great 
spoonful of butter rubbed in flour ; simmer, and stir two 
minutes, and pour out. 

BEEFSTEAK AU MAFTRE D'H6TEL. 

Treat as directed on Tuesday of First Week in Novem- 
ber ; but, when laid upon the hot dish, put over it, and on 
both sides, two or three tablespoonfuls of butter, in which 
have been mixed pepper, salt, a little French mustard, 
and the juice of half a lemon, with a teaspoonful of very 
finely minced parsley. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash, and bake in a moderate oven until soft. Serve 
in their skins. 

STEWED ONIONS. 

Top, tail, and skin. Boil in two waters, throwing both 
away. When the onions are tender, have ready in a 
saucepan a cup of drawn butter. Lay the onions in it ; 
simmer ten minutes, and serve in the sauce. 

MASHED SQUASH. 

Pare, quarter, and cook soft in boiling salt water. 
Strain, press, and mash in a colander. Season with pep- 
per, salt, and butter, and turn into a deep dish. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

2 cups of milk ; 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar ; i heaping 
cup of prepared flour; yolks of 4 eggs, and whites of 
two ; pulp of 2 oranges, chopped very fine ; grated pee 1 
of -J an orange ; i tablespoonful of melted butter. 

Cream butter and sugar, and whip in the yolks, then 
the yellow pulp and the grated peel of the oranges. Beat 
three minutes ; add the milk, then flour and whites, alter- 
nately. Pour into a buttered mould, and boil one hour, 
Eat hot, with jelly sauce. 



SECOND WEEK WEDNESDA Y. 6 1 3 



Seconir ilhek. 



Barley Cream Soup. 

Roast Chine of Pork. Peas Pudding, 

Mashed Potatoes. Apple Sauce. 

Apple Pudding. 

BARLEY CREAM SOUP. 

2 Ibs. of veal cut from the knuckle ; i cupful of bar- 
ley ; 3 quarts of water ; salt and pepper ; chopped parsley. 

Put the meat, cut into strips, into a pot with the water 
and barley, and cook slowly four hours. Pick out the 
meat, having strained off the liquor into a bowl ; then rub 
the barley through a soup-sieve. Season with pepper, 
salt, and parsley; boil up once, and serve. It should be 
of a creamy consistency. 

ROAST CHINE OF PORK. 

Boil half an hour in hot salted water. Take out and 
lay upon a dish to cool somewhat. (Put the pot liquor into 
the stock-pot.) Rub the warm chine all over with a little 
pepper and powdered sage ; then, with beaten egg ; strew 
with bread-crumbs, and set in a good oven until tender. 
Should it brown too fast, cover it. Pass apple sauce with it. 

PEAS PUDDING. 

4 cups of split peas ; i tablespoonful of butter ; 3 eggs ; 
pepper and salt ; i small onion. 

Soak the peas all night. In the morning put them and 
the onion into a farina-kettle with just enough water to 
cover them. Boil two hours, or until soft. Drain, and 
pulp through a colander. Beat in butter, pepper, salt, and 
eggs, and boil in a buttered mould or floured cloth one 
hour. Turn out, and cut in slices on the table. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Prepare as usual. 



614 NOVEMBER. 

APPLE SAUCE. 

Pare, slice, -and stew juicy apples with just enough watei 
to keep them from burning. Mash when soft and broken 
to pieces, and beat smooth with a good lump of butter 
and plenty of sugar. Serve cold. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

2 cupfuls of fine crumbs ; 2 cupfuls of chopped apples ; 
i cupful of sugar ; i teaspoonful mixed cinnamon and 
mace; half as much grated lemon-peel; juice of a lem- 
on ; i tablespoonful of brandy ; Ib. raisins, seeded and 
chopped ; 4 eggs ; i cup of milk ; pinch of soda in the 
milk. 

Scald the milk ; pour upon the crumbs, and beat light. 
Add beaten yolks, sugar, fruit, and spice at last, the 
whites. Bake in a buttered dish, covered, half an hour \ 
then uncover and drain. Eat hot with sweet sauce. It 
is very good. 



llleek. 



Game Soup. 

Fricassee of Grouse. Buttered Parsnips. 

Potatoes with Vermicelli. Stewed Tomatoes. 



Quaking Custard. 



GAME SOUP. 

2 grouse or partridges, or, if you have neither, use a pair 
of rabbits ; Ib. of lean ham ; 2 medium-sized onions ; i 
Ib. of lean beef; fried bread ; butter for frying ; pepper, 
salt, and 2 stalks of white celery cut into inch lengths ; 
3 quarts of water. 

Joint your game neatly ; cut the ham and onions into 
small pieces, and fry all in butter to a light brown. Put 
into a soup-pot with the beef, cut into strips, and a little 



SECOND WEEK THURSDAY. 6l$ 

pepper. Pour on the water ; heat slowly, and stew gently 
two hours. Take out the pieces of bird, and cover in a 
bowl ; cook the soup an hour longer ; strain ; cool ; drop 
in the celery, and simmer ten minutes. Pour upon fried 
bread in the tureen. 

FRICASSEE OF GROUSE. 

Make a cup of drawn butter by heating a cup of 
strained broth from your boiling soup in a saucepan ; stir- 
ring into it two tablespoonfuls of butter cut up in a tea- 
spoonful of rlour ; season well, and put in the pieces of 
grouse, or rabbit. Simmer until very hot ; take out the 
meat and arrange upon buttered toast in a dish. Add to 
the gravy a couple of beaten yolks ; heat one minute, and 
pour over the birds. 

POTATOES WITH VERMICELLI. 

Mash and whip the potatoes light with butter and milk. 
Season with salt, and mound smoothly within a stone- 
china dish, or a bake-dish that has a silver stand for the 
table. Wash over with white of egg, and strew with ver- 
micelli that has been broken small, boiled a few minutes 
in hot water, then spread out to drain upon a sieve. 
Brown in a quick oven. 

BUTTERED PARSNIPS. 

Boil tender, and scrape. Slice a quarter of an inch 
thick, lengthwise. Put into a saucepan with a great 
spoonful of melted butter, pepper and salt, and a little 
chopped parsley. Shake over the fire until it boils. Lay 
the parsnips upon a dish, and pour the sauce over them. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Empty a can of tomatoes into a saucepan. Stew 
twenty-five minutes ; season with pepper, salt, sugar, and 
stir in a lump of butter rolled in flour. Simmer ten min- 
utes, and serve. 

QUAKING CUSTARD. 

3 cups of milk ; yolks of 3 eggs, using the whites for 
the meringue; % package Cooper's gelatine; 6 tabla 



6l6 NOVEMBER. 

spoonfuls of sugar $ juice of i lemon for meringue; fla 
voring extract for custard. 

Soak the gelatine two hours in a cup of the milk. Heat 
the rest of the milk ; add that in which the gelatine is, 
and stir over the fire until the gelatine is melted. Take 
from the fire and pour upon the beaten yolks and sugar. 
Heat slowly, and stir until it thickens well. Cool, stirring 
every quarter of an hour. When cold, flavor and pour 
into a wet mould. Set in ice, or in a cold place. When 
it is firm, turn out and surround with a meringue made by 
whipping the whites stiff with a little powdered sugar, and 
the lemon-juice. 



Seconb tUcek. 



Turnip Soup. 

Boiled Cod. Mashed Potatoes. 

Fricasseed Eggs. Canned Succotash 



Chocolate Tartlets. 
Tea and Albert Biscuits. 

TURNIP SOUP. 

12 turnips; 3 tablespoonfuls of butter; i onion; 2 
stalks of celery ; bunch of herbs ; 2 cups of milk ; pep- 
per and salt ; 2 quarts of water ; i tablespoonful even 
of flour. 

Pare and lay the turnips in cold water half an hour. 
Slice into the soup-pot, with the onion and celery ; also 
the chopped herbs. Pour on two quarts of cold water, 
and boil until the vegetables are broken to pieces. Rub, 
with their liquor, through a sieve. Season, and return to 
the fire. When it boils, stir in the butter cut up in the 
flour ; cook five, minutes ; pour into the tureen, and add 
the boiling milk. 

BOILED COD. 

Sew the fish up in a piece of mosquito-netting. Put on 
in plenty of boiling water, a little salt, allowing about 



SECOND WEEK FRIDAY. 6l? 

twelve minutes per pound. Unwrap; lay upon a hot dish, 
and pour over it serving some in a boat a cupful of 
drawn butter made from the fish pot-liquor, and containing, 
besides butter and flour, the pounded yolks of two boiled 
eggs, and a tablespoonful of chopped green pickle. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Mash, and pass with the fish. 

FRICASSEED EGGS. 

7 or 8 hard-boiled eggs, laid in cold water so soon as 
they are done ; a cup of gravy left from yesterday's soup ; 
a little cold chopped meat ; melted butter, pepper, salt, 
and French mustard; three tablespoonfuls of cream. 

Cut the cold eggs, crosswise ; take out the yolks ; slice 
a bit from the bottom of each white " cup " thus made, 
and stand them closely together in a flat dish. Rub the 
yolks to a p'aste with the butter ; mix with the chopped 
meat and seasoning, and make into round balls, with 
which fill your " cups." Heat, and add the cream to the 
gravy, and pour over the eggs. Set in the oven three 
minutes to heat ; stick a bit of parsley in the top of each 
ball, and send to table. 

CANNED SUCCOTASH. 

Turn out a can of succotash into a saucepan ; barely 
cover with hot water, and cook half an hour. Pour off 
the water ; put on, instead, a cup of cold milk. Bring to 
a boil ; pepper, salt, and put in a lump of butter, rolled 
in flour. Simmer five minutes. 

CHOCOLATE TARTLETS. 

4 e gg s > 4 cake Baker's chocolate, grated ; i table- 
spoonful corn-starch, dissolved in milk ; 3 tablespoonfuls 
of milk ; 4 tablespoonfuls of white sugar ; 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of vanilla ; \ teaspoonful cinnamon, and a little salt ; 
i heaping teaspoonful of melted butter. 

Rub the chocolate smooth in the milk ; heat over the 
fire, and add the corn-starch wet in more milk. Stir until 



6l8 NOVEMBER. 

thickened, and pour but. When cold, beat in the yolks 
and sugar, with the flavoring. Bake in open shells lining 
pate-pans. Cover with a meringue made of the whites 
and a little powdered sugar, when they are nearly done, 
and let them color slightly. Eat cold. 



Second iUeek. Saturirag. 

Winter Pea Soup. 

Ham and Eggs. Macaroni with Cod. 

Fried Beans. Cold Slaw, with Cream Dressing. 

Squash Pie. 

, WINTER PEA SOUP. 

3 Ibs. of beef, cut into strips ; i Ib. of lean ham ; 2 Ibs. 
of cracked bones ; 5 quarts of water ; i turnip, sliced ; 2 
onions, chopped ; pepper ; salt ; 3 stalks of celery ; i 
pint of split peas. 

Soak the peas all night. In the morning, put them on 
in a farina-kettle covered with a quart of warm water, and 
cook soft. Put into a soup-kettle the beef, ham, and 
vegetables, with five quarts of water, and cook slowly 
four hours, filling up with hot water should the water sink 
below four quarts. Strain off the liquor ; pick out meat 
and bones from the colander ; put into the stock-jar, and 
season well. Pour over them all but three pints of the 
soup, and set away. Pulp the vegetables through the 
colander into. to day's broth; season, and add the peas, 
also rubbed through a colander. Cook slowly, stirring 
often, half an hour, and pour upon dice of fried bread 
into the tureen. 

HAM AND EGGS. 

Boil slices of him fifteen minutes, and let them gel 
cold. Trim and cut into pieces of uniform size ; put a 
small piece of butter in a fryij g-pan, and cook the ham, 



SECOND WEEK SATURDAY. 6l 

not too quickly, turning when the under side is done. Strain 
the fat when the ham has been taken out and put upon 
a hot-water dish ; return to the fire, and fry the eggs. 
Cut off the ragged edges and lay one upon each slice of 
ham. 

MACARONI WITH COD. 

Break a quarter of a pound of macaroni into short 
pieces ; boil twenty minutes in hot salted water ; drain ; 
stir in a tablespoonful of butter and three tablespoonfuls 
of grated cheese ; mix up with one-third as much chopped 
cod as you have macaroni, and put into a buttered bake- 
dish. Wet with a little milk ; scatter bread-crumbs on 
the top, and bake, covered, half an hour, then brown. 

FRIED BEANS. 

Boil as directed on Sunday of this week ; put a lit- 
tle dripping in a frying-pan with a little powdered, or 
chopped parsley ; heat, put in the beans, and stir until 
they are a pale yellow ; pepper and salt, and serve hot. 

COLD SLAW, WITH CREAM DRESSING. 

i small head of white cabbage, chopped fine ; i cup 
scalding milk ; rather less than a cup of vinegar ; i 
tablespoonful of butter ; 2 beaten eggs ; i tablespoonful 
of white sugar ; i teaspoonful essence of celery ; pepper 
and salt to taste. 

Heat milk and vinegar in separate vessels. Put butter, 
sugar, and seasoning into the hot vinegar. Boil up once, 
and put in the cabbage. Heat to scalding and take off. 
Add the beaten eggs to the hot milk ; cook until they be- 
gin to thicken. Put the hot cabbage into a bowl ; pour 
the custard over it ; toss and stir with a silver fork ; cover 
to keep in the strength of the vinegar, and cool suddenly. 

SQUASH PIE. 

i pint of stewed and strained squash ; i pint of milk ; 
| cup of sugar ; 3 eggs, beaten light ; % teaspoonful of gin- 
ger, and same of mace and cinnamon mixe'd. 

Beat all well together, and bake in open shells of paste 



62O NOVEMBER. 



fthek. 



Potage au Riz 

Roast Turkey. Cranberry Sauce 

Mashed Potatoes, Browned. Sweet Potatoes. 



Queen's Pudding. 

POTAGE AU Riz. 

Take the fat from the top of the soup-stock. Pour off 
and strain what is needed for to-day. Heat and skim ; 
add half a cup of rice which has been cooked soft in a 
little milk also the milk which has not been soaked up ; 
put in what seasoning is needed ; simmer fifteen minutes, 
and serve. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Clean, and wash out the crop and body of the turkey 
with soda and water, rinsing it out afterwards. Stuff with 
a force-meat made of crumbs, a little cooked sausage, pep- 
per, salt, and a little butter. Truss the turkey neatly. 
(Salt the giblets, and set by for to-morrow's soup.) Lay 
it in the dripping-pan ; pour boiling water over it, and roast 
about ten minutes to the pound, after the cooking actual- 
ly commences. Cook slowly at first, or it will be dry with- 
out and raw within. Baste often and freely. Ten minutes 
before taking it up, dredge with flour, and baste with but- 
ter. Pour off the fat from the top of the gravy, thicken 
with browned flour, and season ; boil once and serve in a 
boat. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Put a quart of clean cranberries into a saucepan, with 
a cupful of cold water. Stew slowly, stirring often, for an 
hour and a half. Take from the fire, and sweeten abun- 
dantly with sugar ; rub through a fine colander and set to 
form in a wet mould. Do this on Saturday. 

MASHED POTATOES BROWNED. 

Whip light with milk, butter, and salt ; pile upon a 
greased pie-dish, and brown in a good oven. Slip to a 
hot dish by the aid of your cake-turner. 



THIRD WEEK MONDAY. 621 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil until tender ; strip off the skins ; lay in an oven to 
dry for some minutes and serve. 

QUEEN'S PUDDINCJ. 

2 cups of milk ; 4 eggs ; package of gelatine ; cup 
of sugar ; vanilla or other essence ; i sponge-cake ; 2 
glasses of wine ; raspberry or other jelly. 

Soak tne gelatine in the milk for one hour. Put into a 
farina-kettle and heat to boiling, stirring until the gelatine 
is dissolved. Pour upon the beaten eggs and sugar ; re- 
turn to the fire and cook one minute. Pour half, when 
cold, into a wet mould. After half an hour, cover this 
with slices of sponge cake with jelly spread between them. 
Wet these well with wine. Add the rest of the custard, 
and set the mould upon ice, or in a cold place. 

Make this pudding on Saturday. 



filjirlr ti)k. JflouJrag. 

Giblet Soup. 

Turkey Scallop. Boiled Rice. 

Stewed Tomatoes. Baked Potatoes. 

Apple Meringue Pie. 

GIBLET SOUP. 

Boil the turkey giblets in a c quart of water. Take them 
out ; add the water to the entire contents of your stock- 
pot, and simmer at the back of the range for one hour, 
adding water if it should boil down. Strain and season. 
Have ready the giblets the gizzard chopped fine, the 
liver pounded with half a cupful of turkey-stuffing. Cook 
all together fifteen minutes, and pour out. 

TURKEY SCALLOP. 

Cut the meat from your cold turkey. Break the bones , 
cover them with two quarts of cold water ; boil one hour, 



622 NOVEMBER. 

season and put in{o a bowl. Chop the meat and season 
-with pepper and salt. Put a layer of buttered crumbs in 
the bottom of a bake-dish ; cover with the mince ; moisten 
with gravy ; more crumbs buttered and wet with milk. 
Having filled the dish in this way, cover with cracker- 
crumbs, seasoned, wet with oyster-liquor (or milk) and 
beaten light with two eggs. Strew butter on top ; bake, 
covered, half an hour ; then brown. 

BOILED RICE. 

Skim the fat from the cooled broth made by boiling 
your turkey-bones. Put into a saucepan with a cup of 
soaked rice, and cook until the latter is soft, shaking the 
pot from time to time. Drain off the liquor, and put into 
your stock-pot ; serve the boiled rice in a deep dish, and 
pass grated cheese with it. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 
See Thursday, Second Week in November. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Wash, and bake soft in a moderate oven. Wipe, and 
serve wrapped in a napkin. 

APPLE MERINGUE PIE. 

Beat into some good, sweet apple-sauce a little melted 
butter, and season to taste with nutmeg. Fill a shell of 
pie-paste with this ; bake, and when done, spread with a 
meringue made of the whites of three beaten eggs and a 
little sugar. Shut up in the oven a few minutes, to " set." 
You can keep raw paste in a cold place from Saturday 
to Monday, and spare yourself the trouble of making it 
to-day. 



THIRD WEEK TUESDAY. 62$ 



tthek. 

Veal and Oyster Soup. 

Beefsteak Pie. Ladies' Cabbage au Maitre d'Hatel, 

Puree of Potatoes. Canned French Beans. 



Flour Hasty Pudding. 



VEAL AND OYSTER SOUP. 

Knuckle of veal meat sliced and bones cracked ; 
i qt. of oysters ; i cup of milk ; 2 teaspoonfuls of flour ; T 
tablespoonful of butter cut up in the flour; 2 stalks of 
celery ; pepper and salt ; 6 quarts of water. 

Put meat, bones, celery, and water over the fire and 
cook slowly four hours. Strain; put meat and bones, 
highly seasoned, into your stock-jar with all the soup ex- 
cept two quarts, and set away. Cool and take the fat 
from that kept out for to-day ; return to the fire with 
seasoning. When it boils, add the oysters. Cook five 
minutes ; pour out and add the boiling milk thickened 
with the floured butter. 

BEEFSTEAK PIE. 

3 Ibs. of steak ; i chopped onion ; i tablespoonful of 
mushroom catsup ; a little water ; i tablespoonful of but- 
ter cut up into floured bits ; pepper and salt ; some good 
plain paste. 

Cut the steaks into small squares ; beat each flat, and 
leave out bone, fat, and gristle. Strew a little onion in the 
bottom of a bake-dish ; put in a layer of meat, peppered 
and salted ; scatter bits of floured butter over it ; then 
more onion. When all are in, pour in the catsup and a 
little water or gravy is better cover with crust, and bake 
nearly two hours. 

LADIES' CABBAGE AU MAFTRE D' HOTEL. 
Boil a cabbage in two waters. (Salt the second, and 
put into your stock-pot.) Let it get perfectly cold ; chop 
fine ; mix with two beaten eggs, a few spoonfuls of your 



624 NOVEMBER. 

soup-stock, a great spoonful of butter, the juice of a 
lemon, pepper and salt. Pour into a buttered pudding- 
dish, bake covered, forty minutes, brown, and serve in the 
dish. 

PURE OF POTATOES. 

Whip boiled potatoes light, and rub through a colander. 
Add milk and butter, salt to taste, and when very soft, 
pour into a buttered saucepan. Stir until hot and stiff; 
pour into a deep dish. 

CANNED FRENCH BEANS. 

Clip the beans into short and equal lengths. Put into 
a saucepan, cover with hot salted water, and stew half an 
hour. Drain, stir in a lump of butter, with pepper and 
salt, and dish. 

FLOUR HASTY PUDDING. 

Heat to boiling a quart of milk. Salt, and stir in three 
tablespoonfuls of flour, rubbed smooth in a little cold 
milk. Boil and stir fifteen minutes, and add a tablespoon- 
ful of butter. Cook two minutes ; turn into an uncovered 
deep dish, and eat with butter and sugar, or cream and 
sugar. Sprinkle each saucerful with nutmeg. 



tDeirtuairag. 



Cauliflower Soup. 
Pork Chops, with Tomato Gravy. Beets, 

Potato Croquettes. Apple Sauce. 

Batter Pudding. 



CAULIFLOWER SOUP. 

Skim your soup-stock. Heat and boil it for ten min- 
utes. Strain off two quarts, and return the rest to the 
stock-jar. Parboil a small cauliflower ; clip it into small 



THIRD WEEK WEDNESDAY. $2$ 

clusters, and drop into the soup when you have brought 
it again to a boil. Cook slowly fifteen minutes. Stir in 
a tablespoonful of butter cut up in half as much flour. 
Season to taste ; boil up fairly, and serve. 

PORK CHOPS, WITH TOMATO GRAVY. 

Trim off skin and fat ; rub all over with a mixture of 
powdered sage and onion. Put a small piece of butter 
into a frying-pan ; put in the chops, and cook rather 
slowly, as they should be well done. Lay the chops upon 
a hot dish ; add a little hot water to the gravy in the pan ; 
a great spoonful of butter rolled in flour ; pepper, salt, 
and sugar, and half a cup of juice drained from a can of 
tomatoes keeping the tomatoes themselves for 'a tomato 
omelette for breakfast. Stew five minutes, and pour over 
the chops. 

BEETS. 

Wash ; cut off the tops ; boil more than an hour ; 
scrape. Cut into round slices, and put into a root-dish. 
Pour over them a tablespoonful of butter, heated with as 
much vinegar, and seasoned with pepper and salt. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Mash soft with butter, salt, and milk. Beat light with 
two eggs (for a large dish). Heat in a greased saucepan, 
stirring all the while, until quite stiff. Let it get cold; 
make into croquettes ; roll in raw egg, then in cracker- 
crumbs, and fry to a nice* brown in plenty of dripping, 
Drain off the fat, and serve. 

APPLE SAUCE. 
See Wednesday, Second Week in November. 

BAITER PUDDING. 

i liberal pint of milk ; 4 eggs ; 2 even cups of flour 
prepared ; i teaspoonful of salt. . 

Beat the yolks; add njilk and salt; then the flour; 
lastly, the whites. Bake at once in a buttered dish, forty- 
five minutes. Eaf hot, with a good sauce. 
27 



626 NOVEMBER. 



Slftrir llhek. 

Chicken Cream Soup. 

Ragout of Rabbits. Parsnip Fritter*. 

Stewed Celery. Glazed Sweet Potatoes. 

Orange Tartlets. 

CHICKEN CREAM SOUP. 

Boil an old fowl, with an onion, in four quarts of cold 
water, until there remain but two quarts. Take it out, 
and let it get cold. Cut off the whole of the breast, and 
chop very fine. Mix with the pounded yolks of two hard- 
boiled eggs, and rub through a colander. Cool, skim, 
and strain the soup into a soup-pot. Season ; add the 
chicken-and-egg mixture ; simmer ten minutes, and pour 
into the tureen. Then add a small cup of boiling milk. 

RAGOUT OF RABBITS. 

Pair of rabbits ; \ Ib. of fat salt pork ; i large onion ; / 
tablespoonful of butter, and same of browned flour ; pep- 
per and salt ; lemon, peeled and sliced thin ; glass of 
sherry ; cup of gravy. 

Slice the onion ; dredge with flour, and fry brown in 
the butter. Add half a cupful of gravy, and, when well 
mixed, turn all into a saucepan. Put in the rabbits, 
jointed as for fricassee, the sliced bacon, and lemon. Sea- 
son ; cover closely, and stew an hour, or until the meat is 
tender. Thicken with browned flour ; boil once, and 
pour out. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Scrape and halve the parsnips. Boil tender in hot 
salted water. Mash smooth, picking out the woody bits. 
Add a beaten egg to every four parsnips, a teaspoonful of 
flour pepper and salt at your discretion, and enough 
milk to make into a thick batter. Drop, by the spoonful, 
into hot lard, and fry brown. Drain in a hot 
and dish. 



THIRD WEEK FRIDAY. 62/ 

STEWED CELERY. 

Scrape, and cut into short bits. Cook tender in hot 
salted water. Pour this off; add enough cold milk to 
cover the celery. Heat to a boil ; stir in a good spoonful 
of butter rolled in flour, pepper and salt. Stew five min- 
utes longer. 

GLAZED SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil soft, peel carefully, and lay in a greased dripping- 
pan in a good oven. As they begin to crust over, baste 
with a little butter, repeating this several times, as they 
brown. When glossy, and of a golden russet, dish. 

ORANGE TARTLETS. 

2 fine oranges, juice of both, and grated peel of one ; j 
cup of sugar; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter; juice of \ a 
lemon ; i tea spoonful of corn-starch, wet up with lemon- 
juice and a little cold water. 

Beat all to a smooth cream, and bake in small paste 
shells. 



iri) tltek. Jribag. 



Egg Soup. 

Panned Oysters. Fowl and Rice Croquettes. 

Potatoes a 1'Italienne. Canned Corn Pudding. 

Boiled Custards and Cake. 

EGG SOUP. 

Heat all your soup-stock, adding hot water, should 
there not be two quarts. Cook gently half an hour ; 
strain, pressing all the strength out of the meat ; cool, 
skim off the fat ; season ; return to the fire, and when it 
boils, pour upon six beaten raw eggs. Put back into the 
soup-kettle, and stir until it begins to thicken. It must 
not boil. Put strips of crisp toast into the tureen, and 
pour on the soup. 



628 NOVEMBER. 

BANNED OYSTERS. 

Butter a number of small tins with upright sides, like 
those of muffin-rings. Cut rounds of bread to fit the 
bottoms ; toast these, butter well, and fit each into its 
place. Wet with oyster-liquor ; then lay in as many 
oysters as the tins will hold ; dust with pepper and salt ; 
put a bit of butter upon each, arrange the tins in a large 
dripping-pan ; cover with another to keep in steam, and 
flavor, and cook eight minutes, or until the oysters "ruf- 
fle." Send up in the tins " hot and hot." 

FOWL AND RICE CROQUETTES. 

Cut the meat from the skeleton of your cold chicken. 
Break up the bones, and cover with a quart of cold water, 
adding skin and gristle. Boil down to a pint, cool, take 
off the fat ; return to the fire ; salt, and put in half a cup- 
ful of raw rice. Cook in a farina-kettle until the rice 
is soft and dry ; stir in, then, a tablespoonful of butter, 
and turn upon a flat dish, to cool. Meanwhile, put the 
minced chicken into a saucepan with a little of yesterday's 
soup ; season, and stir over the fire until very hot. Beat 
a raw egg into the cold rice ; flour your hands, and make 
into oblong flat cakes. Put a great spoonful of mince in 
the hollowed centre of each ; enclose by folding the rice 
upon it ; roll each in flour ; then in raw egg ; lastly in 
pounded cracker, and fry to a fine yellow brown. 

POTATOES A L'ITALIENNE. 

Whip the boiled potatoes to a dry meal with a fork ; 
still using the fork, beat in butter, salt, pepper, and two 
tablespoonfuls of cream. Pile, like rock-work, upon 
a stone-china dish, or within a pudding-dish that has a 
silver stand for the table, and brown delicately and quickly 
upon the upper grating of the oven. 

CANNED CORN PUPDING. 

Drain and chop the corn ; add a cupful of milk, 2 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and i of sugar ; pepper, 
salt, and 2 beaten eggs. Beat all light ; pour in a 
greased bake-dish ; bake, covered, half an hour ; then 
brown. 



THIRD WEEK SATURDAY. 629 

BOILED CUSTARDS AND CAKE. 

i quart of milk ; yolks of 5 eggs and the whites of 2, 
reserving 3 for the meringue ; 6 tablespoonfuls of sugar ; 
flavoring extract, i teaspoonful to the pint. 

Heat the milk to scalding ; pour gradually, upon the 
beaten yolks and two whites, whipped light with the sugar. 
Return to the custard-kettle, and stir until it begins to 
thicken. When cold, flavor ; pour into glass or china 
cups ; whip the whites to a froth with a little sugar, and 
pile upon the top. Lay a preserved berry, or a bit of 
bright jelly, upon the top of each snowy heap. Eat with 
cake. 



Good Beef Soup. 

Breaded Lamb Chops. Fried Potatoes. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. Baked Onions. 

Suet Dumplings. 

GOOD BEEF SOUP. 

6 Ibs. of shin beef, cut in strips ; 2 Ibs. of bones, 
cracked ; 4 stalks of celery ; i onion ; 3 carrots ; 2 tur- 
nips ; bunch of sweet herbs ; pepper and salt ; 7 quarts 
of water. 

Put on the meat and bones in the water, and cook 
slowly, skimming often, for two hours. Add the herbs 
and all the sliced vegetables except one carrot, and cook 
two hours more. Strain off the liquor ; put bones and 
meat, well seasoned, into your stock -pot ; add the soup 
(ihere should be at least five quarts in all) except 
what is needed for to-day, and put away for future use. 
Pulp the vegetables into to-day's soup ; cool, take off the 
fat ; season ; put back over the fire ; add the reserved car- 
rot, which should have been cut into dice and cooked by 
itself in a little water ; simmer ten minutes, and pour out 



630 NOVEMBER. 

BREADED LAMB CHOPS. 

Trim neatly ; flatten with the side of a hatchet ; pep 
per and salt ; dip into beaten egg, then in cracker-dust^ 
and fry in good dripping, turning when the lower side is 
done. Drain off the fat, and lay upon a dish, overlapping 
each other, with a wall of fried potatoes around them. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Pare ; slice thin ; lay in cold water half an hour ; dry 
between two towels, and fry to a light brown in nice drip- 
ping or salted lard. Shake off all the fat in a hot colan- 
der, and pile around the chops. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Drain off most of the liquid from a can of tomatoes 
into the boiling soup-kettle. Put a layer of crumbs in the 
bottom of a buttered bake-dish ; butter them, and lay in 
the tomatoes, seasoned with pepper, salt, and sugar. 
Cover with buttered crumbs, and bake, covered, half an 
hour then brown. 

BAKED ONIONS. 

Cook in two waters the second, salted and boiling. 
When tender, drain ; set closely together in a bake-dish. 
Pepper, salt, and butter liberally ; pour over them a little 
of your soup-stock, strained through a cloth ; brown in a 
good oven ; lay in a deep dish, and pour over them the 
gravy thickened with browned flour, and cooked one 
minute. 

SUET DUMPLINGS. 

2 cups fine crumbs soaked in a cup of hot milk ; i cup 
powdered suet ; 4 beaten eggs ; i tablespoonful of sugar ; 
i teaspoonful cream-tartar mixed with i tablespoonful 
of flour ; teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the milk ; a 
little salt. 

Beat the eggs into the soaked crumbs ; add salt, suet, 
sugar, lastly, the flour. Beat and knead hard , make into 
balls ; put into floured cloths ; leave room to swell ; tie 
tightly, and boil one hour. Eat hot, with sauce. 



FOURTH WEEK SUNDAY. 63! 



Jbtirtl) tMeek. 



Macaroni Soup. 

Roast Goose. Apple Sauce. 

Sweet Potatoes. Canned String-Beans 

Cauliflower. 



Chocolate and Cocoanut Blanc-Mange. 

White Cake. 

Coffee. 



MACARONI SOUP. 

Skim your stock ; pour off and strain two quarts ; heat 
to a slow boil ; add a tablespoonful of walnut catsup ; 
skim well, and drop in half a cupful of fancy macaroni, 
which has been cooked ten minutes in a little boiling 
water. Simmer five minutes, and serve. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

Be wary in the selection of even what the poulterer 
assures you is a "green goose," and should you be 
" sold," as well as the bird, take the disappointment 
good-naturedly. Wash out and wipe dry the oody of the 
goose ; add to the usual dressing of crumbs, pepper, salt, 
etc., a tablespoonful of melted butter ; a tablespoonful 
of minced onion ; half as much powdered sage, some bits 
of fat pork, and the yolks of two eggs. Put into the drip- 
ping-pan with two cupfuls of boiling water, and roast, if 
of fair size, two hours, basting often and very copiously. 
When half done, cover the breast with a stiff paste of 
flour and water, removing when you are ready to brown 
it. Take the fat from the gravy ; thicken with browned 
tiour, add a glass of sherry, salt, and pepper ; boil and 
serve in a boat. 

APPLE SAUCE. 

See Wednesday Second Week in November. 

SWEET POTATOES. 
Cook as directed on Sunday, Third Week in November 



632 NOVEMBER. 

CANNED STRING-BEANS. 

See " French Beans," Tuesday, Third Week in Novem- 
ber. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Tie in a net, and cook about forty-five minutes in boil 
ing salted water. Drain ; lay in a deep dish, blossom 
upward, and pour on a cupful of rich drawn butter, with 
the juice of a lemon stirred in. 

t 

CHOCOLATE AND COCOANUT BLANC-MANGE. 

i quart of milk ; 3 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch heap- 
ing ; i cup of sugar ; whites of 4 eggs ; vanilla flavoring ; 
3 tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate ; i grated cocoanut. 

Heat the milk ; rub the corn-starch smooth with a little 
cold milk ; stir into the hot milk, first the sugar, then the 
corn-starch. When it is a smooth paste, whip in the 
.frothed whites ; cook one minute, and pour off half of the 
mixture into a bowl upon half the grated cocoanut. Beat 
in well. Add to that on the fire the chocolate, rubbed 
smooth in a little milk, and stir until the blanc-mange is 
colored. Wet a mould ; when the chocolate-mixture is 
cold, pour half into the mould, 'and set where it will get 
cold fast. *After half an hour, or so soon as it will bear 
the weight, put the cocoanut in carefully, and when this 
is quite firm, add the rest of the chocolate. Next day 
turn it out upon a dish, and heap the other half of the 
cocoanut newly grated over it. Send around a good 
boiled custard cold with it. Do this on Saturday. 

WHITE CAKE. * 

Please refer to " General Receipts," Series No. i, of 
"COMMON SENSE IN THE HOUSEHOLD," page 334. 



FOURTH WEEK MONDAY. 633 



Jourtl] tDeek. 

Medley Soup. 

Rechauffe of Goose. Stewed Salsify. 

Potato Cones, Baked. Cranberry Sauce. 

Apple Meringue. 



MEDLEY SOUP. 

When you have cut the meat from the carcass of the 
goose, break up the bones ; put on with the stuffing in 
two quarts of water, and boil down to one. Strain ; skim ; 
add what stock remains in your stock-jar, and simmer 
half an hour. The stuffing should thicken the soup suffi- 
ciently, and almost season it. Pour out into the tureen. 

RCHAUFF OF GOOSE. 

Cut the meat into neat slices, and lay in a saucepan 
with minced ham, and a little onion between the slices. 
Cover with gravy, and heat slowly until near the boiling- 
point. Take up the meat ; lay upon a dish ; thicken the 
gravy with browned flour ; add a spoonful of currant jelly ; 
boil up, and pour over the meat. 

STEWED SALSIFY. 

Scrape, and cut each root in two, dropping into water 
as you scrape them. Stew in boiling wat.er, a little salt, 
until tender; pour off the water; add enough milk- to 
cover the roots ; when it boils, stir in a piece of butter 
rolled in flour ; pepper and salt ; simmer five minutes, 
and pour out. 

POTATO CONES BAKED. 

Mash or whip boiled potatoes light ; mix with a little 
very finely minced parsley a little butter, a great spoon- 
ful of cream, and the yolks of two beaten eggs. Make 
into cone-shaped loaves, about as large as an egg ; set 
in a greased baking-pan ; wash over with beaten egg, and 
brown in a quick oven. 
27* 



634 NOVEMBER 

CRANBERRY SAUCE 

See Sunday, Third Week in November. 

APPLE MERINGUE. 

Sweeten and spice some nice apple sauce ; beat in two 
or three eggs. Pour into a pudding-dish, and bake 
quickly. When well crusted over, cover with a meringue 
made by whipping stiff the whites of three eggs with a 
little sugar. Shut the oven-door, and tinge slightly. 



Jburtl) tthek. 



Baked Bean Soup. 

Veal Cutlets. Fried Parsnips 

Sausage and Cabbage. Celery Salad, 



Macaroni Pudding. 



BAKED BEAN SOUP. 

On Monday morning put a quart of beans in soak. By 
evening, put them to boil at the back of the range, and 
cook until soft. Early on Tuesday morning put them 
into a pudding-dish with a pound of parboiled streaked 
pork, and bake brown. Cut the bacon into strips ; put 
into a soup-pot with the beans, a sliced onion, and three 
stalks of celery. Pour on three quarts of cold water, and 
boil down to two. Rub through a colander ; return to 
the fire ; season to taste ; add a teaspoonful of flour into 
which a tablespoonful of butter has been rubbed. Sim- 
mer ten minutes, and pour upon dice of fried bread 
placed in the tureen. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Flatten with side of a hatchet ; pepper, salt, dip in raw 
egg, then in cracker-dust ; fry in a little butter, turning as 
they brown. Dish, and pour over them some drawn but- 
ter in which has been cooked a great spoonful of tomatc 
catsup. 



FOURTH WEEKWEDNESLAY. 63$ 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 

Boil tender in a little hot water, salted. Scrape, cut into 
long slices ; dredge with flour and fry in hot lard or drip 
ping. Drain off the fat, and serve. 

SAUSAGE AND CABBAGE. 

Quarter and parboil a fine, white cabbage, and put 
on to boil in hot water with six or eight "link " sausages, 
having previously pricked these slightly. When the cab- 
bage is tender, drain and chop, adding pepper, salt, a 
little butter and vinegar heated together. Pile upon a 
hot dish, laying the sausages about the cabbage. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Scrape and cut blanched celery into inch lengths. Put 
into a glass dish, and pour over it a dressing made by rub- 
bing a teaspoonful of sugar with half as much, each, of pep- 
per, salt, and made mustard, with two tablespoonfuls of 
oil, and twice the quantity of vinegar, added gradually. 

MACARONI PUDDING. 

i cup macaroni broken into equal lengths ; i quart of 
milk; 4 eggs ; lemon ; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter ; j- 
cup of sugar, a little mace. 

Simmer the macaroni in half the milk until tender. Heat 
and add the other pint. While hot stir in the butter, the 
yolks beaten up with sugar, the mace, lemon juice and 
peel finally the whisked whites. Bake half an hour in a 
buttered mould covered then brown. 



fourtl) 



Venison Soup. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. Mashed Turnips. 

Stewed Tomatoes. Stuffed Potatoes. 

Pancakes. 

VENISON SOUP. 

3 Ibs. of venison, the coarser parts of the meat will do ; 
Ib. lean ham ; i onion sliced ; 3 stalks of celery ; 5 



636 NOVEMBER. 

quarts of water ; i can of corn, drained and chopped , 
pepper and salt ; butter and flour. 

Cut up the meat and put on with the onion, celery, and 
water. Stew slowly three and a half hours. Strain, 
pressing hard ; cool, skim, and return the soup to the fire 
with the chopped corn. Stew half an hour ; add the 
seasoning, a lump of butter rolled in flour, a half-cup of 
tomato-juice, and simmer ten minutes more. 

If you cannot get venison use mutton for this soup. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Put on in plenty of boiling water, a little salt. Cook 
fifteen minutes to the pound. When done, wipe dry and 
rub all over with butter. Make a boat of drawn butter, 
using as a base a cup of the strained pot-liquor, and, when 
made, add a great spoonful of chopped cucumber pickle. 

Of course you will pour the pot-liquor into the stock- 
jar. 

MASHED TURNIPS. 

Pare, quarter, and cook .the turnips tender in boiling 
salted water. Mash in a hot colander; add butter, pep- 
per, and salt, and serve in a hot dish. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 
See Thursday, Second Week in November. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

Bake large potatoes soft, and cut a round piece from 
the top of each. Scrape out the insides carefully and 
mash smooth with butter, cream, and a little grated 1 cheese. 

Beat soft with milk, season with pepper and salt, and 
heat in a greased saucepan, stirring all the time. Fill the 
skins with the mixture, put on the caps and set in the 
oven for three minutes. Serve upon a dish lined with a 
napkin. 

PANCAKES. 

2 cups of prepared flour ; 6 eggs ; i saltspoonful of salt ; 
milk to make a thin batter. 

Beat the *ggs light ; add salt, two cups of milk, then, the 



FOURTH WEEK THURSDAY. 637 

whites and flour alternately with milk, until the batter is 
of the right consistency. Run a teaspoonful of lard over 
the bottom of a hot frying-pan, pour in a large ladleful of 
batter, and fry quickly. Roll the pancake up like a sheet 
of paper ; lay upon a hot dish ; put in more lard, and fry 
another pancake. Keep hot over boiling water, sending 
half a dozen to the table at a time. Eat with sauce. 



Jcmrtl) 

Mutton and Rice Soup. 

Chickens a la Viennoise. Hominy Croquettes 

Spinach. Lima Beans, 

Bread and Custard Pudding. 

MUTTON AND RICE SOUP. 

Take all the fat from the liquor in which your mutton 
was boiled ; put it over the fire with a cup of raw rice, 
and cook slowly until the latter is boiled to pieces. 
Strain through the soup-sieve, add seasoning to taste, and 
some finely minced parsley. Heat to boiling, and pour 
into the tureen. Add a cup of hot milk, in which have 
been beaten two raw eggs the milk having cooked for a 
minute to thicken them. 

CHICKENS 1 LA VIENNOISE. 

Clean, wash, and wipe a pair of chickens. Parboil the 
giblets; chop them fine, with a very little onion, the 
pounded yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and seasoning to 
your taste. Add a handful of crumbs, and stuff the 
chickens with this force-meat. Boil in plenty of hot water, 
slightly salt, three-quarters of an hour, having sewed up 
each in coarse netting. Put them into a broad saucepan, 
in which have been melted two tablespoonfuls of nice 
dripping, and the same of butter. The fowls should have 
been wiped dry, and the fat be hot when you put them in 
Turn twice wlrle you brown them over a quick fiie 



638 NOVEMBER. 

When russet-colored all over, dish, and pour over them a 
few spoonfuls of butter, heated with a tablespoonful of 
tomato catsup. Save the liquor in which the fowls were 
boiled. 

HOMINY CROQUETTES. 

2 cups of fine-grained hominy, boiled, and cold ; 2 
beaten eggs; 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter; i table- 
spoonful of sugar ; salt to taste. 

Rub butter and sugar into the hominy until the latter is 
smooth ; then beat in the eggs. Make into rolls with 
floured hands; roll in flour, and fry to a good color. 
Drain well. 

SPINACH. 

Pick off the leaves. Boil in hot salted water twenty 
minutes. Drain, chop fine, and return to the saucepan, 
with a piece of butter, salt, sugar, pepper, and a pinch of 
mace. Beat in two tablespoonfuls of cream, and, when 
smooth and hot, turn out. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Soak the dried beans all night ; then proceed as with 
" Kidney Beans a 1' Anglaise," on Sunday, Second Week 
in November. Cook enough for a hot dish to-day, and 
bean salad to-morrow. 

BREAD AND CUSTARD PUDDING. 

i quart of milk ; 2 even cups of dried crumbs ; 4 eggs ; 
5 tablespoonfuls of sugar ; cinnamon ; Ib. raisins, seeded 
and chopped ; 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

Soak the crumbs in a pint of the milk, and heat to 
scalding in a custard-kettle. Beat to a mush ; put in the 
butter, and beat again one minute. Butter a pudding- 
dish ; pour a half-cupful of the mush in the bottom ; 
sprinkle with cinnamon, and strew with raisins, more bat- 
ter, spice, and fruit, until all are in. Heat the other pint 
of milk ; pour upon the beaten yolks and sugar ; pour 
this custard, without boiling, over the pudding. Bake, 
covered, half an hour. Uncover, spread upon the custard 
if fully " set " a meringue of the whites, whipped stiff 
with a little powdered sugar. Eat warm not hot with 
cream and sugar, or butter and sugar. 



FOURTH WEEK FRIDAY. 639 

Jburtl) 



Graham Soup. 

Fricassee of Canned Salmon. Chicken Dumplings 

Salsify Saute. Macaroni, with Bacon 

Bean Salad. 

Pumpkin Pie. 



GRAHAM SOUP. 

3 onions ; 3 carrots ; 3 turnips ; \ cabbage ; 6 stalks 
of celery ; can of tomatoes ; 3 tablespoonfuls of butter 
rolled in flour ; cup of milk (cream is better) ; pepper 
and salt ; 3 quarts of water ; a little sugar ; sweet herbs. 

Chop the vegetables, and put all over the fire in the 
water, excepting the cabbage and tomatoes. Parboil the 
cabbage, and add at the end of half an hour's boil. Half 
an hour later, put in the tomatoes and chopped herbs. 
Boil sharply twenty minutes ; add sugar, pepper, and salt. 
Rub the soup thr6ugh a colander. Return to the fire ; 
stir in the floured butter ; simmer five minutes, turn into 
the tureen, and stir in the hot milk or cream. 

FRICASSEE OF SALMON. 

i can fresh salmon ; 2 beaten eggs ; i cup of drawn but- 
ter ; i teaspoonful anchovy sauce ; 2 hard-boiled eggs, 
chopped fine ; cayenne and salt to taste ; capers, or 
minced green pickles. 

Stew the fish broken into rather coarse bits in the 
can-liquor ten minutes. If there is not enough liquor, 
cook in a little water. Add the drawn butter, and, when 
these are well mixed, the beaten eggs. Stir five minutes ; 
put in the chopped eggs and pickles. Heat one minute, 
and pour into a deep dish. 

CHICKEN DUMPLINGS. 

Meat from your cold fowls, minced fine ; cup of 
gravy ; yolks of 3 raw eggs ; i tablespoonful of flour ; pep 



640 NOVEMBER. 

per and salt ; batter 'made of i egg; % cup of milk, and 
a little flour; cracker-crumbs. 

Put chopped meat and seasoning, with a little of the 
liquor in which the chickens were boiled, into a saucepan, 
and heat to a gentle boil. Stir in the flour wet in a little 
cold water, and a minute later the beaten yolks. Stir to 
thickening ; pour out, and let it get cold and stiff. Flour 
your hands, and make the paste into flattened balls. Roll 
in cracker-dust, dip in the batter, again in the cracker, 
and fry in hot lard. Drain, and serve hot. 

N.B. Boil the skeletons and stuffing of the chickens 
in the rest of the pot-liquor, and put by, well seasoned, 
in the stock-jar. 

SALSIFY SAUTED 
See Thursday, First Week in November. 

MACARONI WITH BACON. 

Boil half a pound of macaroni, broken up small, in a 
little weak " stock," salted, twenty minutes. Drain ; 
stir in a quarter of a pound of streaked bacon, boiled and 
minced very fine ; put into a buttered bake-dish ; pour 
on a very little soup-stock ; cover with rolled crackers, 
seasoned well ; put bits of butter on top ; bake, covered, 
half an hour then brown. 

BEAN SALAD. 

Put the cold Lima beans into a salad-dish; and pour on 
such a dressing as was made for cold slaw on Monday, 
First Week in November. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

i quart milk ; i 'pint stewed pumpkin, rubbed through 
a colander ; 4 eggs ; i teaspoonful mixed cinnamon and 
mace, and half as much nutmeg ; i scant cup of sugar ; a 
little salt. Beat all well together, and bake in open crust. 
Ea> ooU 



FOURTH WEEK SATURDAY. 64! 



JFomrtl) tthek. Saturbag. 

Ox-head Soup. 

Pork Steaks. Apple Sauce 

Mashed Turnips. Potatoes Scalloped with Eggs. 

Apple Pie and Cream. 

OX-HEAD SOUP. 

J an ox's head, well cleaned, including the fresh tongue ; 
6 potatoes, boiled and mashed ; 3 turnips ; 3 onions ; 4 
carrots ; 4 stalks of celery ; pepper, salt, and mace ; 
bunch of sweet herbs ; 8 quarts of water ; the stock 
already in your jar. 

Put the head, tongue, and vegetables (leaving out the 
potatoes) over the fire, with the water, early in the day. 
Bring slowly to boiling, and keep this up five hours. At 
the end of three hours take out the .tongue with enough 
liquor to cover it, and let it get cold. When the five 
hours have passed, strain off the liquor ; take out bones 
and meat ; season highly, and put into your emptied and 
scalded stock -jar. Pulp the vegetables into the soup ; 
season it, and pour all not needed for to-day into the 
stock-pot. Add to that kept out the skimmed and strained 
broth made yesterday from the chicken-bones ; the pota- 
toes, boiled and rubbed hot through the colander. Boil 
slowly ten minutes, and pour out. When tongue and the 
stock in the jar are both cold, add the one to the other. 

PORK STEAKS. 

Cook precisely as y<f* do beefsteak, only for a much 
longer time, and turn oftener. When you have laid them 
upon a hot dish, anoint on both sides with butter mixed 
and heated with pepper, salt, powdered sage, and a little 
minced onion. Cover, and let them stand for a few min- 
utes before serving. 

APPLE SAUCE. 
See Wednesday, Second Week in November. 



642 NOVEMBER. 

MASHED TURNIPS. 
See Wednesday of this week. 

POTATOES SCALLOPED WITH EGGS. 

2 cups of mashed potatoes ; 3 tablespoonfuls of milk, 
and 2 of butter ; yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs ; i beaten 
raw egg ; handful fine crumbs ; salt and pepper. 

Beat the hot potatoes smooth with milk, butter, and 
raw egg, and season well. Put a layer in the bottom of a 
buttered bake-dish ; then one of sliced yolks, peppered 
and salted. Fill the dish in this order, having potatoes on 
top. Strew with crumbs ; cover ; bake half an hour, and 
brown. 

APPLE PIE AND CREAM. 

Pare, core, and slice juicy, well-flavored apples ; line 
pie-dishes with a good crust ; put in a layer of fruit ; strew 
well with sugar ; scatter half a dozen whole cloves upon 
these ; lay on more apples, and so on, until the dish is 
full. Cover with crust, and bake. Sift powdered sugar 
upon th top and eat, just warm, with- or without 
cream. 



FIRST WEEK SUNDAY. 643 

DECEMBER. 
Jirst lUeek. 



Soup a la Langue. 

Roast Haunch of Venison. Sweet Potatoea 

Moulded Potatoes. Stewed Celery. 

Currant Jelly. 

Martha's Cake. Barley Custard. 



SOUP i LA LANGUE. 

Take fat from your soup-stock. Pour out two quarts 
into the soup-kettle ; heat slowly and skim carefully. 
Meanwhile, take out the beefs tongue from the jar ; 
skin, and cut up the best parts of it into small dice. 
There should be a large cupful of these. Drop into the 
soup, add a tablespoonful of catsup, and nearly a tea- 
spoonful of French mustard. When the soup begins to 
boil again, pour it out. 

Return the refuse parts of the tongue to the stock-jar. 

ROAST HAUNCH OF VENISON. 

Wash well in lukewarm water ; then, rub all over with 
butter. Cover on all sides with a stiff paste of flour and 
water, arnd put down to roast, pouring a little water into 
the baking-pan. Now and then, wet the paste to keep it 
from cracking. Roast from three to four hours. Half 
an hour before taking* it up. remove the paste, and test 
with a skewer to see if it is done. Set down again to 
roast, and baste every five minutes, with claret and melted 
butter. At the last, dredge with flour, baste with butter, 
and brown. For gravy; add to the liquid in the dripping- 
pan a thickening of browned flour, a teaspoonful of cur- 
rant jelly, a glass ->f claret, pepper and salt to taste, 
Boil up, and serve in a boat. 



644 DECEMBER. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil in hot water until a fork will enter the largest 
easily ; peel ; lay in a dripping-pan, and set in a good 
oven a few minutes to dry out. 

MOULDED POTATOES. 

Mash boiled potatoes with milk, butter, and salt not 
too soft ; press hard into a greased mould, and turn out 
upon a hot dish. 

STEWED CELERY. 

Scrape and cut into equal lengths the best stalks of a 
bunch of celery. Cook tender in boiling water, a little 
salt ; drain, pepper and salt, and when dished pour on a 
cupful of drawn butter in which has been stirred the juice 
of half a lemon. 

BARLEY CUSTARD. 

\ cup of pearl barley ; i quart of milk ; 5 eggs ; I 
dessertspoonful of corn-starch wet up in a little cold 
milk ; nearly a cupful of sugar ; a pinch of salt ; vanilla, 
or other flavoring. 

Boil the barley tender in just enough water to cover it, 
with a pinch of salt. Drain, and put into a custard-ket- 
tle with the milk. Heat slowly, and when it fairly boils, 
pour irpon the beaten eggs and sugar. Return to the 
fire ; stir until thick ; turn into a bowl, and, when cold, 
flavor. On Sunday, pour into custard-cups, with, if you 
like, a spoonful of whipped cream upon the top of each. 

MARTHA'S CAKE. 

Please consult " COMMON SENSE IN THE HOUSEHOLD/' 
Series No. i, General Receipts, page 314. 



FIRST WEEK MONDAY. 645 



JFtr0t tDtek. 

Tapioca Soup. 

Venison Pasty. Stewed Tomatoes 

Kidney Beans au Maltre d'H6tel. Potato Cakes. 

Apple Jelly. 
Fruit, Nuts, and Raisins. 



TAPIOCA SOUP. 

Pour oft as much stock as will suffice for the wants of 
your family to day. Strain, and heat it. Take off the 
scum, and add a generous handful of tapioca, soaked two 
hours in a little cold water. Simmer until clear. 

VENISON PASTY. 

Cut off slices of the least-done part of your roast veni- 
son ; divide into neat squares, season with pepper and 
salt. Make a gravy by cooking bits of skin and refuse 
pieces of meat in a little water ; boiling the liquid down 
one-half; cooling : taking off the top and seasoning well. 
Cut the best parts of the tongue left from yesterday's 
soup very small. Put a layer of venison into a deep 
dish ; sprinkle with butter-bits rolled in flo-ur, and cover 
with the minced tongue. Upon this drop a few bits of 
currant jelly. Fill the dish thus ; pour on the gravy, and 
put a thick crust of paste (kept over from Saturday's pas- 
try-making) above all. Bake to a pale brown ; wash over 
with white of egg, and, when this hardens, with butter, 
and shut the oven-door to glaze it. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Empty a can of tomatoes into a saucepan. Cook 
twenty-live minutes ; season with sugar, pepper, salt, and 
a tablespoonful of butter rolled in pounded cracker. Sim- 
mer ten minutes longer. 

KIDNEY BEANS .AU MAFTRE D'HOTEL. 

Soak the beans all night. Boil soft in water, slightly 
salt. Drain, and put hot into a saucepan with two table- 



646 DECEMBER. 

spoonfuls of butter, a little parsley, chopped fine, pepper, 
salt, and a little minced onion. Shake over the fire until 
hissing hot, add the juice of half a lemon, and dish. 

POTATO CAKES. 

J^Iake the cold mashed potato left from yesterday into 
flat, round cakes ; flour abundantly ; lay in a floured 
baking-pan and set in a hot oven to brown. Serve upon 
a hot. flat dish. 

APPLE JELLY. 

12 fine pippins; 2 cups of powdered sugar; juice of 2 
lemons ; grated peel of one ; package Coxe's gelatine 
soaked in i cup of cold water. 

Pack the apples, when pared and cored, into a stone- 
ware or glass jar with a- cup of cold water ; put on the top 
loosely to allow the escape of the steam : set in a pot of 
warm water, heat slowly, and boil until the apples are very 
soft. Have ready in a bowl the soaked gelatine, sugar, 
femon-juice and grated peel. Strain and squeeze the hot 
apples over them ; stir until the gelatine is dissolved, 
strain again through a flannel bag. Wet a mould and 
pour it in. This can be made on Saturday and kept 
in a cold place. 

FRUIT, NUTS, AND RAISINS. 

Put apples, pears, and oranges upon one dish ; nuts 
and raisins together. 



Canned Pea Soup. 

Beefsteak. Graham Savory Pudding. 

Baked Potatoes. Cream Parsnips. 



Susie's Bread Pudding. 

CANNED PEA SOUP. 

As your stock must be running low, add a quart of 
boiling water to the contents of the jar, and boil slowly at 



FIRST WEEK TUESDAY. 647 

the back of the stove for an hour and a half. Strain, cool, 
skim, and add a can of green peas. Cook until these 
are tender ; pulp through a colander into the soup, season 
with pepper and salt, also a lump of white sugar, stir in a 
lump of floured butter, and when it has boiled once- 
more, pour upon dice of fried bread placed in the tureen. 

. BEEFSTEAK. 

Flatten and broil upon a greased gridiron over a clear 
fire. Turn as it drips. It should be done in ten or 
twelve minutes. Lay upon a hot-water dish ; pepper, salt, 
and butter liberally. Cover with another hot dish, or a 
heated cover of block-tin. 

GRAHAM SAVORY PUDDING. 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls of Irish oatmeal, soaked two 
hours in a little cold water ; 2 cups of boiling milk ; hand- 
ful of fine crumbs ; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter ; i table- 
spoonful minced onion ; r teaspoonful mixed sweet marjo- 
ram and parsley ; 3 eggs. 

Pour the hot milk upon the soaked oatmeal, and stir 
over the fire for fifteen minutes. Add the bread-crumbs, 
beat up well; put in the onion, herbs, butter, pepper, and 
salt, lastly the whipped eggs. When very light, butter a 
mould, pour in the pudding, set in a pan of boiling water, 
and this in a moderate oven. Bake one hour, turn out, 
and send around a boat of drawn butter with it. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Bake in a steady oven until soft ; wipe, and send to 
table without peeling them. 

CREAMED PARSNIPS. 

Boil tender, scrape and slice lengthwise. Put over the 
fire with two tablespoonfuls of butter, pepper, and salt, 
and a little minced parsley. Shake until the mixture 
boils. Dish the parsnips, add to the sauce three table- 
spoonfuls of cream in which has been stirred a quarter- 
spoonful of flour. Boil once, and pour over the parsnips. 



648 DECEMBER. 

SUSIE'S BREAD PUDDING. 

i quart of milk ; 4 eggs; the whites of three, more foi 
meringue; 2 cups fine dry crumbs; i tablespoonful melt- 
ed butter ; i cup of sugar ; juice and half the grated peel 
of i lemdn. 

Beat eggs, sugar, and butter light. Soak the crumbs in 
the milk, and mix well, beating long and hard. When 
nearly done spread with a meringue made of the whipped 
whites of three eggs and a little powdered sugar. Eat 
cold. 



tl)ebne0bag. 



A Plain Soup. 

Jugged Rabbits. Macaroni with Cheese. 

Cauliflower. Beets. 



Rusk Fritters. 

A PLAIN SOUP. 

5 Ibs. shin of beef meat sliced and bones cracked ; 
4 turnips ; 4 carrots ; 3 stalks of celery ; i large onion 
stuck with 6 cloves ; bunch of herbs ; pepper and salt ; 
6 quarts of water. 

Put meat, bones and sliced vegetables on with the 
water, and cook slowly four hours. At the end of two 
hours take out a cupful of the meat, and spread out tc 
cool. When the four hours are up, strain the soup, rub- 
bing the vegetables through a colander ; cool, skim, and sea- 
son ; add the cooled meat cut into dice, heat to boiling, 
and serve. Put the meat and bones left in the colander 
into the stock-jar, with all of the soup not used to-day. 

JUGGED RABBITS. 

Skin, clean with care, and joint the rabbits as for fricas- 
see. Lay thin slices of fat salt pork in the bottom of a 
stoneware jar ; lay upon them pieces of rabbits ; strew 
with minced onion and parsley ; put in more pork and 
more rabbit, etc. Add a cup of your soup or other gravy. 



FIRST WEEK WEDNESDAY. 649 

When all are in put on the cover of the jar, fitting closely, 
and set in a pot of warm water. Tie a piece of thick 
paper over the top of the jar to keep in the steam. Cook 
steadily two hours longer should you find, upon opening 
the jar, that the meat is not tender. When it is done, 
dish the meat, strain the gravy into a saucepan, and set 
in cold water to throw up the fat. Take this off; add a 
little currant jelly, browned Hour, wet with water, and a 
glass of claret. Boil one minute and pour over the meat. 

MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 

Break half a pound of macaroni into short pieces, and 
cook tender in hot salted water. When nearly done, stir 
in a tablespoonful of butter. When tender, drain ; stir 
in two great spoonfuls of grated cheese, salt to taste, and 
a little cayenne. Stir over the fire until the cheese is 
melted ; put in a spoonful of butter, and dish. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil the cauliflower in plenty of hot salted water. When 
done, which should be in about twenty minutes, drain and 
dish, the flower upward. Pour over it a cup of drawn 
butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, and the juice of half a 
lemon. 

BEETS. 

Boil more than an hour, scrape and slice round. Dish, 
and pour upon them a little butter heated with a like 
quantity of vinegar, and seasoned with pepper and salt. 

RUSK FRITTERS. 

12 stale rusks ; 5 eggs; 4 tablespoonfuls of white sugar ; 
2 glasses of sherry. 

Cut all the crust from the rusks and divide each into 
two or three pieces of equal size. The slices should be an 
inch thick. Pour the wine over them ; let them lie in it 
five minutes, then drain upon a sieve. Beat eggs and 
sugar together. Lay the soaked rusks in these for a min- 
ute, turning over and over, so as to coat them well. Fry 
in boiling lard^to a golden brown. Drain well and sprinkle 
with powdered sugar mixed with cinnamon, and serve hot 
with or without sauce. 
28 



6$0 DECEMBER. 

Jtrat 



Celery Soup. 
Boiled Beef Tongue with Sauce Piquante. 

Baked Beans. 
Baked Tomatoes. Chopped Potatoes. 

Lemon Puddings. 

CELERY SOUP. 

12 stalks of celery ; 3 pints of soup-stock; i cup of 
milk ; pepper and salt ; i teaspoonful of sugar ; -J onion ; 
i teaspoonful of flour wet up in cold milk. 

Scrape and cut up the celery into inch lengths. Cook 
fifteen minutes in a little hot water ; drain and add three 
pints of stock with the onion ; stew gently until the celery 
is very soft. Pulp through a colander into the soup ; 
season and return to the fire. Boil up ; put in the sugar 
and pour into the tureen. Add a cup of boiling milk 
thickened with the flour. 

BOILED BEEF'S TONGUE WITH SAUCE PIQUANTE. 
Soak the tongue a corned one three hours; wash 
well and cook in plenty of boiling water, fifteen minutes 
per pound. Trim off the root ; skin and dish, pouring 
over it a cupful of rich drawn butter in which has been 
stirred a great spoonful of capers, pickled nasturtium-seed, 
or of green pickle chopped. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Soak a quart of navy or kidney-beans all night. In the 
morning put on to boil in cold watep, and cook soft. 
Half an hour before taking them up, put in a piece of 
streaked salt pork, three or four inches square. When 
the beans are soft, drain ; put into a bake-dish with the 
pork half browned in the middle. Score the rind of the 
parboiled pork ; cover the dish, and bake one hour then 
brown. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Drain off most of the juice from a can of tomatoes 
(Add to the tongue pot-liquor, by and by ; boil together 



FIRST WEEK FRIDAY. 6$ I 

ten minutes, and pour into the stock -jar.) Put the toma- 
toes into a pudding-dish ; season with pepper, salt, sugar, 
and butter; strew fine crumbs over all; bake, covered, 
half an hour, and brown quickly. 

CHOPPED POTATOES. 

Boil potatoes, and let them get cold. Chop rather 
coarsely ; put into a saucepan, with a couple of spoonfuls 
of butter, a little pepper and salt, and shake and stir until 
very hot. 

LEMON PUDDINGS. 

6 butter crackers, soaked in water, and crushed to a 
pulp ; 3 lemons ; half the grated peel ; i cup of molasses ; 
i tablespoonful melted butter ; a pinch of salt ; good pie- 
paste. 

Pare away all the skin of the lemons, when you have 
grated off half the yellow peel. Chop the pulp very fine, 
and remove the seeds. Stir this into the crushed crack- 
ers with the butter and salt. Beat in the molasses grad- 
ually, then the lemon-peel. Have ready small pate-pans 
lined with paste ; fill with the mixture, and cook. Eat 
cold, but fresh. 



JFtrst 



Bread Soup. 

Lobster Croquettes. Braised Grouse. 

Salsify Fritters. Sweet Potatoes. 

Indian Meal Puffs. 

BREAD SOUP. 

Save your crusts for several days for this soup. Break 
about half a pound of them into small pieces, and lay in 
an open oven to dry, while you skim your soup-stock ; 
add an onion, and put over the fire to boil. Cook gently 
half an hour ; strain ; return to the kettle, and when it 
boils again put in the crusts. Cook slowly twenty min- 
utes, stir, and beat the bread to a porridge, add seasoning 
and a little minced parsley, and boil one minute. 



652 DECEMBER. 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 

i can of preserved lobster ; 2 eggs ; 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter ; cup fine crumbs ; yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs pounded, then worked into the butter ; juice of 
half a lemon ; salt, cayenne pepper, a pinch of mace, and 
-one of lemon-peel ; beaten yolks of 2 raw eggs. 

Mince the meat ; work in the warmed butter and pound- 
ed yolks, the seasoning, raw eggs at last, the crumbs. 
Make into oblong balls or rolls ; roll in flour, and fry in 
sweet lard. Drain upon clean paper, rolling each cro- 
quette lightly upon it, and dish. Pass cream crackers and 
sliced lemon with these excellent croquettes, and make a 
separate course of them. 

BRAISED GROUSE. 

Clean thoroughly, washing out the inside in soda and 
water, and then rinsing and wiping. Truss, but do not 
stuff the birds ; tie them in shape. Cover the bottom of 
a saucepan with slices of fat salt pork ; lay the grouse 
upon these ; sprinkle minced onion and parsley over them 
with pepper, salt, and a little sugar. Cover with more 
pork, and pour in a large cupful of soup-stock, or other 
broth. Jf you cannot spare this, put butter and water, 
although it is not so good. Cover very closely ; simmer 
one hour ; turn the birds, and cook always covered 
until tender. Dish the grouse ; strain the gravy ; thick- 
en with browned flour ; boil up, and pour into a boat. 
Partridges, wild pigeons, and tough chickens may be 
cooked in this way also ducks. 

SALSIFY FRITTERS. 

Wash, scrape, and grate the roots, letting them fall from 
the grater into a batter made of two eggs, half a cup of 
milk, flour enough for thin batter, and a little salt and 
pepper. It should be like raw fritters when mixed. Drop, 
by the spoonful, into the hot fat. As fast as they are fried 
throw into a hot colander, set over a bowl in the oven. 
Eat hot. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

See Sunday of this week. 



FIRST WEEKSATURDAY. 653 

INDIAN MEAL PUDDING. 

4 beaten eggs ; i quart of boiling milk ; 2 scant cups 
white "coin-flour," or very fine meal; cup of wheat 
dour; i scant cup powdered sugar ; i tablespoonful but- 
ter ; a little salt ; i tablespoonful of cream of tartar, and 
half as much soda sifted twice through the flour; tea- 
spoonful mixed cinnamon and nutmeg. 

Boil the milk ; stir in the meal, flour, and salt. Boil 
fifteen minutes, stirring up well from the bottom. Put 
into a bowl, and beat hard for three minutes. When cold 
add beaten eggs and sugar, with the spice. Whip long 
and thoroughly. Bake in greased cups or muffin-tins, in 
a steady oven. When done, turn out, and eat with but- 
ter and powdered sugar. 



JFtrat tDeek. 



Mock Turtle Soup. 

Baked Mutton Chops. Macaroni Pudding. 

Winter Squash. Cold Slaw. 



Cracker and Jam Pudding. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Please refer to Wednesday, Third Week in March, foi 
a long and minute receipt for this soup. Make enough 
for three days. 

BAKED MUTTON CHOPS. 

3 Ibs. of mutton chops ; 5 fine potatoes ; i onion ; I 
kidney ; i pint of oyster-liquor ; pepper, salt, and parsley ; 
I tablespoonful of butter. 

Lay one-third of the chops rid of all the fat and skin 
in a baking-dish ; cover with potatoes and onions, sliced 
very thin ; sprinkle with salt and pepper. Put on another 
layer of chops, more potatoes and onions, then the sliced 
kidney. Cover with potatoes ; season ; put in the rest of 
the chops ; cover with onion and potatoes. Pour in the 
oyster-liquor and melted butter, with parsley, pepper, and 



654 DECEMBER. 

salt. Cover very closely, and bake in a moderate oven 
three hours. Turn out upon a heated flat dish. 

MACARONI PUDDING. 

Break half a pound of macaroni into short pieces, and 
boil twenty minutes in hot, salted water. Drain ; add 
two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, the minced remains 
of yesterday's game, or some other cold meat, a little 
chopped ham, and four beaten eggs. Mix all well, wet- 
ting with a little soup-stock adding, finally, a cup of 
milk, in which has been stirred a pinch of soda. Pour 
into a greased mould, and boil one hour. Turn out, and 
serve with a gravy made of cold gravy left from yesterday, 
mixed with a little hot stock, strained, thickened, and 
boiled for one minute. 

WINTER SQUASH. 

Pare, cut up, and cook soft in boiling water, a little salt. 
Drain; mash smooth, pressing out all the water; work in 
butter, pepper, and salt, and mound in a deep dish. 

COLD SLAW. 

Shred a firm cabbage, and pour over it a dressing made 
in these proportions : One teaspoonful of sugar, half as 
much salt, pepper, and made mustard, rubbed smooth in 
two tablespoonfuls of oil, and then beaten up very gradu- 
ally with five tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and a teaspoonful 
Colgate's essence of celery. 

CRACKER AND JAM PUDDING. 

3 e gg s ) k CU P cracker-crumbs ; % CU P sugar ; i table- 
spoonful of butter ; i cup of milk ; lemon juice and 
grated peel; 3 tablespoonfuls of jam. 

Heat milk and crumbs together until scalding. Turn 
out to cool, while you rub butter and sugar to a cream 
adding the lemon. Stir in the beaten yolks, the soaked 
cracker and milk at last, the whites. Butter a bake-dish ; 
put the jam at the bottom ; fill up with the mixture, and 
bake, covered, half an hour ; then brown. Eat cold, with 
sifted sugar on top. Or, if you like, you can put a 
meringue over it befere taking from tie oven. 



SECOND WEEK SUNDAY. 6$$ 



" That Soup " Again. 
Roast Turkey, Garnished with Sausages. 

Mashed Turnips 

Canned Corn Pudding. Sweet Potatoes. 

Cranberry Sauce. 



Orange Snow and Snowdrift Cake. 
Hot Coffee. 

" THAT SOUP " AGAIN. 

Remove every particle of fat from the top of your stock. 
Take out what is needed for to-day, and heat to boiling 
slowly. 

ROAST TURKEY, GARNISHED WITH SAUSAGES. 

Wash out the turkey carefully. Stuff as usual, adding 
a little cooked sausage to the dressing. (Salt the giblets, 
and keep for to-morrow.) Lay the turkey in the dripping- 
pan, pour a great cupful of boiling water over it, and roast 
about ten minutes per pound slowly for the first hour. 
Baste faithfully and often, dredging with flour, and basting 
with butter at the last. Dish the turkey, laying boiled 
sausages around it. Pour the fat from the gravy ; thicken 
with browned flour ; salt, and pepper. Boil once, and 
serve in a boat. 

MASHED TURNIPS. 

Pare, quarter, and cook tender in boiling water, a little 
salt. Mash arvd press in a heated colander ; work in 
butter, pepper, and salt ; heap smoothly in a deep dish, 
and put **clabs " of pepper on top. 

CANNED CORN PUDDING. 

Drain, and chop the corn fine, add a tablespoonful of 
melted butter, four beaten eggs ; a large cup of milk, 
with an even teaspoonful of corn- starch stirred in it, with 
salt and pepper to taste. Bake, covered, in a greased pud- 
ding-dish one hour ; then brown quickly. 



656 DECEMBER. 

SWEET POTATOES. 
See Sunday of First Week in December. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Cook a quart of cranberries with a very little water, 
slowly, in a porcelain or tinned saucepan. Stir often, 
and when they are broken all to pieces, and thick as mar- 
malade, take off, sweeten liberally, and rub through a col- 
ander. Wet a mould, and put them in to form. 

ORANGE SNOW AND SNOWDRIFT CAKE. 

4 large sweet oranges, juice of all, and grated peel of 
one ; juice and half the grated peel of i lemon ; T pack- 
age of gelatine soaked in i cup of cold water ; whites of 
4 eggs, whipped stiff; i large cup of powdered sugar ; 2 
cups of boiling water. 

Mix the juice and peel of the fruit with the soaked 
gelatine, add the sugar, stir well, and leave them for one 
hour. Pour on boiling water, and stir until clear. Strain, 
and press through a coarse cloth. When cold, and be- 
ginning to congeal, whip a spoonful at a time into the 
frothed whites. Put into a wet mould. Do this of course 
on Saturday. 

For Snowdrift Cake, please refer to BREAKFAST, LUNCH- 
EON AND TEA, page 340. 



)D tele. 

Brown Giblet Soup. 

Minced Turkey and Eggs. Baked Tomatoes. 

Stewed Potatoes. Raw Celery. 

Plain Rice Pudding. 
A " Comfortable Cup of Tea." 

BROWN GIBLET SOUP. 

Cut each giblet into three pieces, and put on to boil in 
stock made of the remnant of your mock turtle soup, 



SECOND WEEK-MONDAY. 

diluted with water and strained. Simmer all together one 
hour. 

Chop the gizzard fine, pound the liver. Make what is 
called technically a roux, by putting two tablespoonfuls of 
butter into a saucepan, and when it bubbles, stirring in a 
teaspoonlul of browned flour, and continuing to stir until 
they are well mixed and smooth. Add, spoonful by 
spoonful, half a cup of boiling soup, then the pounded 
liver ; the gizzard, juice of half a lemon, and half a glass 
of brown sherry. Stir all this into the soup, and boil up 
once. Have in the tureen the yolks of four hard-boiled 
eggs, each quartered with a keen knife, and pour the soup 
upon them. 

MINCED TURKEY AND EGGS. 

Cut all the meat from the skeleton of the turkey. Put 
the bones, sinews, skin, and stuffing into a pot with three 
quarts of cold water. Set at the back of the range and 
let it simmer down to two quarts. Season, and set away 
in your stock-pot. 

Divide the meat intended for to-day into inch long 
pieces, tearing rather than cutting it. Heat the skimmed 
gravy ; add as much drawn butter ; two beaten eggs ; pep- 
per and salt ; put in the minced turkey ; set back over the 
tire, and stir until very hot. Cover the bottom of a 
pudding-dish with fine crumbs ; pour in the mixture ; 
strew crumbs on top, and bake to a light brown in a quick 
oven. Serve in the bake- dish. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Please see Thursday of last week the First Week in 
December. Add the surplus juice to your turkey-bone 
"stock." 

STEWED POTATOES. 

Pare and cut into small squares. Lay in cold water 
half an hour ; cook tender in hot water, a little salt. 
When done or nearly pour this off, add a- cup of cold 
milk, and when this begins to simmer, a tablespoonful of 
butter rolled in flour, pepper, salt, and a little minced 
parsley. Boil gently one minute, and pour into a deep 
dish. 



658 Df.CEAlBER. 

CELERY. 

Wash, scrape, and cut off the green leaves. Arrange 
the best stalks in a celery-glass. Put two or three green 
pieces into to-morrow's soup-stock while boiling ; and if 
you have time cut up the rest into short bits, and put in a 
jar or wide-mouthed bottle of vinegar to keep for salad- 
dressing. 

A PLAIN RICE PUDDING. 

i large cup of rice ; 2 quarts of milk ; 8 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar ; i teaspoonful of salt ; I great spoonful of but- 
ter, melted ; nutmeg and cinnamon to taste. 

Soak the rice two hours in a pint of the milk. Add, 
then, the rest of the milk and the other ingredients. 
Bake, covered, two hours ; brown, and eat cold. 



Qeconb illeck. 



Simple White Soup. 

Stewed Fillet of Veal. Spinach. 

Boiled Beans. Mashed Potatoes. 



Queen's Toast. 

SIMPLE WHITE SOUP. 

Take the fat from the top of your turkey soup-stock ; 
strain, rubbing the dressing through the colander. Sim- 
mer one hour, with half a sliced onion and four tablespoon- 
fuls of soaked rice in it, or until the rice is soft. Be care- 
ful that it does not scorch. Strain through the soup-sieve 
into the tureen, add pepper and salt, if needed finally a 
cup of hot milk in which has been stirred and cooked for 
one minute two beaten eggs. 

STEWED FILLET OF VEAL. 

Lard the fillet on top with strips of fat salt pork ; lay a 
few slices of corned ham in the bottom of a saucepan ; on 



SECOND WEEK-TUESDAY. 659 

these the veal ; cover with sliced ham ; season with pep- 
per, salt, and a pinch of mace ; pour in a cup of yester- 
day's soup, weakened with water. Cover closely and 
stew two hours, turning the meat at the end of the first 
hour ; take up and keep the meat hot over boiling water ; 
add some browned flour and a tablespoonful of soaked gela- 
tine to the gravy when you have strained it, boil fast and 
hard until it is thick, and of a glassy brown. Pour on the 
veal, set in the oven, the larded side upward, and shut 
the door for a few minutes to "glaze " it. Garnish with 
light and dark green celery-tops. Lay the ham about it. 

SPINACH. 

Boil in plenty of hot salted water, for twenty-five min- 
utes. Drain, chop very fine, put back in the saucepan with 
a teaspoonful of sugar, a little pepper, salt, and mace, and 
a few spoonfuls of milk or cream. Beat and toss until it 
is like a thick green custard, and pour out upon slices of 
fried bread. 

BOILED BEANS. 

Soak all night. In the morning, put on in cold water, 
and cook gently until soft. Drain, pepper and salt, and 
pour over them, when dished, a little good drawn butter. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Prepare as usual without browning. 

QUEEN'S TOAST. 

Cut thick slices of stale baker's "bread into rounds with 
a cake-cutter and fry to a nice brown in hot lard. Dip 
each slice into boiling water to remove the grease ; 
sprinkle with a mixture of powdered sugar and cinnamon, 
and pile one upon the other. Serve a sauce made of 
powdered sugar, dissolved in the strained juice of a lemon 
and thinned with a glass of wine. Put a very little upon 
each round. Butter sauces are too rich for queen's toast 



560 DECEMBER. 



Seconfo tDeek. 

Beef Gravy Soup. 
Cannelon of Veal, Oysters, and Sweetbreads. 

Potatoes Sautes. 
Succotash. Cranberry Sauce. 

Impromptu Plum Pudding. 

BEEF GRAVY SOUP. 

4 Ibs. of coarse lean beef; 3 Ibs. of bones; 2 sliced 
onions ; 2 turnips ; 2 carrots ; bunch of sweet herbs; 3 stalks 
of celery; pepper and salt ; i tablespoonful corn-starch, 
wet up in cold water ; 5 quarts of water. 

Cut the beef in small strips and fry to a good brown, 
in plenty of dripping. Take out the meat and lightly fry 
the bones. Remove these and put with the meat into the 
soup-pot. Now fry in the same fat the sliced onions ; 
add these, when brown, to the meat and bones, and pour 
on them the five quarts of water. Cook slowly one hour ; 
take off the scum, and put in the sliced carrots, turnips, 
the celery and herbs. Boil gently four hours. Strain ; 
pick out the meat and bones, and put, well-seasoned, into 
the stock-jar. Pulp the vegetables into the soup ; season ; 
pour all but two quarts into the stock-jar, and set aside. 
Cool that left out for to-day, skim and re-heat ; add the 
corn- starch' boil up and serve. 

CANNELON OF VEAL, OYSTERS, AND SWEETBREADS. 

Chop the remains of your stewed fillet ; boil, blanch, and 
cool two sweetbreads, and mince very fine. Chop, also, 
twelve oysters. Mix all these together with a cup of fine 
bread-crumbs ; add plenty of seasoning and two beaten 
eggs. Work to a paste ; flour your hands and make into 
a roll *;ven or eight inches long, and three or four inches 
in diameter. Envelope this in a crust of good pie-paste, 
closing the open ends with rounds of paste. Lay in a 
floured baking-pan, the joined edges downward, and bake 
in a steady oven. Just before taking it up glaze with 
butter. 



SECOND WEEK THURSDAY. 66 1 

POTATOES SAUTES. 

Boil an J slice while hot. Put into a frying-pan with a 
large spoonful of butter, pepper, salt, and powdered pars- 
ley. Stir constantly until very hot, and dish. They 
must not be at all brown or even dry. Serve very hot. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Empty a can of succotash into a saucepan ; cover with 
boiling water, a little salt, and cook half an hour. Turn 
off the water ; pour in a cup of milk, and when this boils, 
stir in a tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour ; season 
with pepper and salt ; boil once, and dish. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

If you have none ready made, prepare according to re- 
ceipt given for Sunday of this week. It is well to make 
a good supply at a time, since it keeps well in cold 
weather. 

IMPROMPTU PLUM PUDDING. 

2 cups of made mince-meat " Atmore's " is very good ; 
i\ cups prepared flour; 6 beaten eggs. 

Whip the yolks and stir (with additional sugar, if 
needed,) into the mince-meat. Beat hard for two or 
three minutes. Put in whisked whites and the flour 
alternately. Butter a large mould ; put in the mixture, 
leaving room for the swelling of the pudding, and boil, 
without the intermission of a moment, for five hours. 
Turn out upon a hot dish ; pour brandy over it, and light 
just as it goes into the dining-room. Eat with rich sauce. 



Scconir \Sttk. 

Tomato Soup. 

Glazed Ham. Potato Puff, 

Chopped Cabbage, with Sauce. Celery Salad. 



Corn-Starch Cup-Cake. 
Chocolate. 

TOMATO SOUP. 
Skim the fat from your soup stock, and put it, meat. 



662 DECEMBER. 

bones and all, over the fire with a can of tomatoes. Sim- 
mer one hour and strain, rubbing the tomatoes through 
the colander. Season to taste ; return to the fire, and 
when it boils, put in a lump of sugar, and a tablespoonful 
of butter cut up in half as much flour. Boil up once. 

GLAZED HAM. 

Put into cold water about ten o'clock on Wednesday 
night, and let it soak until the fire is made next morning. 
Put on then in plenty of cold water, and cook eighteen or 
twenty minutes per pound. Set out of doors when done, 
in a large, shallow pan, and cover with the pot-liquor. 
You should have made, meanwhile, the " glaze," by boil- 
ing down a cup of yesterday's soup, with an equal quan- 
tity of strained pot-liquor, until the result was a thick 
brown broth. Add a tablespoonful of soaked gelatine, 
and set the mixture in boiling water. When the ham is 
nearly, or quite cold, skim carefully ; wash all over with 
the glaze, and set in the oven to harden. If not quite 
thick enough, apply a second coat when the first is dry. 
Twist frilled paper about the shank. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Whip hot boiled potatoes light and soft with milk, but- 
ter, and salt. Beat in two whisked eggs, and heap irregu- 
larly within a buttered bake-dish. Brown quickly, and 
serve in the dish in which it was baked. 

CHOPPED CABBAGE WITH SAUCE. 

Quarter a cabbage, and boil tender in hot salted water. 
Chop when you have drained it ; season with pepper and 
salt. Drain again, pressing out the water; put into a hot 
dish and pour over it a cup of drawn butter, having for 
a base some of the strained ham- liquor, into which have 
be*er. stirred a tablespoonful of celery vinegar and a little 
made mustard. Send up hot. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Scrape and cut into short pieces. Put into a salad- 
bowl, and pour over it a dressing such as was made for 
cold-slaw on Saturday, First Week in December. 



SECOND WEEK FRIDAY. 663 

CORN-STARCH CUP-CAKE. 

5 e gg s ') * CU P f butter ; 2 cups of sugar ; i cup sweet 
milk ; i cup of corn-starch ; 2 cups of prepared flour ; 
vanilla flavoring. 

Cream butter and sugar; beat in the yolks, the milk, 
the corn-starch and flour mixed together, alternately with 
the whites lastly, the vanilla. Bake in small loaves, and 
eat while fresh. Pass hot chocolate with them. 



BeconJr 



Oyster Soup. 

Boiled Chickens. Browned Potatoes. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. Scalloped Squash. 



Baked Custards. 



OYSTER SOUP. 

2 quarts of oysters ; i quart of milk ; 2 tablespoonfuls 
of butter ; i teacupful hot water ; pepper, salt and a blade 
of mace. 

Strain all the liquor from the oysters ; add the water, 
and heat. When near the boil, add the seasoning, then, 
the oysters. Cook about five minutes from the time they 
begin to simmer, until they " ruffle." Stir in the butter, 
cook one minute and pour into the tureen. Stir in the 
boiling milk, and send to table. 

BOILED CHICKENS. 

Clean and truss the chickens, but do not stuff them. 
Sew up each in a piece of mosquito-netting, and boil in 
plenty of hot salted water. Allow about twelve minutes 
to the pound. Undo the netting ; wipe the chickens, and 
rub all over with butter. Send up in a boat a cup of 
melted butter in which have been stirred the pounded 
yolks of two hard boiled eggs, and some powdered 01 
minced parsley. Pour a few spoonfuls over the chickens, 



664 DECEMBER. 

BROWNED POTATOES. 

Boil with their skins on. Throw off the water ; take 
each potato in a clean towel, and hold it while you strip 
oft* the skin. Lay them, when peeled, in a greased baking- 
pan, and set this in a hot oven. Roast, with good drip- 
ping, until they are well colored. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash, and bake soft in a moderate oven. Serve in 
their "jackets." 

SCALLOPED SQUASH. 

Pare, slice, and mash. Stir in, while it is hot, a good 
spoonful of butter, pepper and salt to taste, and two 
beaten eggs. Pour into a buttered dish ; strew fine 
crumbs on the top, and bake, covered, half an hour then 
brown slightly. 

BAKED CUSTARDS. 

i quart of milk ; 4 beaten eggs ; 5 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, beaten with the eggs ; nutmeg, and 2 teaspoonfuls 
of flavoring extract. 

Scald the milk ; pour upon the other ingredients ; stir 
together well ; flavor, and pour into stone-china cups. 
Set these in a pan of hot water ; grate nutmeg upon each, 
and bake until firm. Eat cold from the cups. 



0econfo iUeek. atari* ag. 

Chicken and Sago Soup 

Beefsteak Pudding. Boiled Onions. 

Mashed Potatoes. Fried Hominy. 

Sweet Potato Pie. 



CHICKEN AND SAGO SOUP. 

Take the top from your chicken pot-liquor ; add the 
cracked bones of the chickens, from which you cut the 



SECOND WEEK SATURDAY. 66$ 

meat for " breakfast, luncheon, or tea ; " boil gently one 
hour. Strain, and season to taste ; add a cup of soaked 
sago, and simmer until it is soft and clear. 

BEEFSTEAK PUDDING. 

3 Ibsi. of rump steak ; 3 eggs ; 2 cups of milk ; 5 table- 
spoonfuls of prepared flour ; pepper and salt ; melted 
butter ; parsley ; French mustard. 

Cut the steaks into pieces rather more than an inch wide 
and long. Beat with a rolling-pin ; pepper and salt, and 
dip each in a mixture of melted butter and minced par- 
sley, with a Tittle French mustard. Lay in the bottom of 
a greased bake-dish ; pour over them a batter made of 
the eggs, flour, and milk, bake an hour and a quarter. 
Serve in the bake-dish. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Cook and boil in salted water fifteen minutes ; throw 
this off, and cover with milk and water. Cook tender ; 
drain ; pepper and salt, and pour in a cupful of drawn 
butter. Simmer five minutes, and turn out. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Prepare in the usual manner, taking care not to get 
them too stiff. 

FRIED HOMINY. 

Boil hominy the fine-grained the day before you want 
to use it. When perfectly cold and stiff, remove the skin 
from the top, and cut the hominy into neat squares. Flour 
and salt these, and fry to a nice brown in hot lard or 
dripping. Drain well, and eat hot. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 

Parboil ; skin ; ccTol, and slice crosswise firm sweet 
potatoes. Line a pie-dish with a good crust ; put in a 
layer of sliced potatoes ; sprinkle abundantly with sugar ; 
scatter in four or five whole cloves, and cover with more 
slices. Fill the dish thus : put in a liberal tablespoonful 
of melted butter ; pour in a little water and a teaspoonful 
of lemon-juice ; cover with puff-paste, and bake. Eat 
cold. This is a Virginia dish, and very nice. 



666 DECEMBER. 

l)irir 

Ox-tail Soup. 

Ducks a la Mode. Canned Green Peas 

Mashed Turnips. Scalloped Cauliflower. 

Sponge Cake Souffle Pudding. 



OX-TAIL SOUP. 

2 ox-tails ; i onion ; 2 turnips ; 2 carrots ; bunch of 
sweet herbs ; 6 whole cloves ; 2 tablespoonfuls of catsup ; 
i glass of wine ; pepper and salt ; % lb. of lean ham ; but- 
ter ; water. 

Joint the tails, and slice the vegetables and ham. Put 
two tablespoonfuls of butter into the soup kettle, with the 
tails, ham, vegetables, herbs, and a pint of water. Cover 
closely, and simmer half an hour after they begin to smoke. 
Add, then, six quarts of water, if the tails are of a fair 
size, and simmer four hours, or until the vegetables are 
boiled to pieces and the tails very tender. Do this on 
Saturday ; season the soup, and turn all into the stock- 
jar. On Sunday take off the fat, and strain the soup, 
pulping the vegetables, and taking out the pieces of tail. 
Put these into the stock-jar, with all the soup you do not 
need for to-day ; also the bits of ham. Heat the portion 
left out for to-day ; stir in a good spoonful of browned 
flour wet in water, the catsup and wine, and boil up fairly 
before serving. 

DUCKS A LA MODE. 

Joint the ducks ; pepper, salt, and flour them. Fry to 
a light brown in a little butter. Put into a saucepan with 
a cup of your soup-stock strained off before pulping the 
vegetables a tablespoonful of minced onion, pepper and 
salt to taste. Cover, and stew tender ; say about forty 
minutes from the commencement of the boil. Keep hot 
over boiling water while you strain the giavy ; add a glass 
of wine, and thicken with browned flour. Boil until thick, 
and pour over the ducks 



THIRD WEEK-MONDAY. 66 J 

CANNED GREEN PEAS. 

Drain, cover with boiling water, and cook tender. 
Pour off the water ; dish, and stir in a little hot butter, 
mixed with pspper, salt, and a dust of powdered sugar. 
Tos? and mix well, and serve hot. 

MASHED TURNIPS. 
See Sunday, Second Week in December. 

SCALLOPED CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil twenty minutes tied up in netting in hot salted 
water. Cut into small clusters, rejecting the main stalk 
altogether. Set these closely together in a buttered bake- 
dish ; pour drawn butter over them, and sift fine crumbs 
thickly upon the top. Bake in a good oven until browned. 

SPONGE-CAKE SOUFFLE" PUDDING. 

12 square (penny) stale sponge-cakes; 5 eggs; i cup 
of milk ; 2 glasses of sherry ; ^ cup of sugar. 

Lay the cakes in a buttered pudding-dish ; pour the 
wine over them, and cover for half an hour. Heat the 
milk ; pour upon the beaten yolks and half the sugar. 
Stir over the fire until quite thick. Pour, gradually, upon 
the cakes, letting it soak in well before adding more. 
Put into the oven, and, when very hot, cover with the 
whites, whisked stiff with the rest of the sugar, and shut 
the oven-door until the meringue is colored. Make on 
Saturday, and eat cold on Sunday. 



l)tvtJ 



Second Edition Soup. 

Boiled Cornel Beef. Roast Potatoe 

Scalloped Cabbage. Horseradish Sauce. 

Farina Pudding. 



SECOND EDITION SOUP. 

Strain off the soup from the meat in your stock-jar- 
heat slowly to a boil ; put in a cupful of the best parts of 



668 DECEMBER. 

the meat, cut neatly from the joints, and divided into 
square bits. Boil one minute, and pour out. 

BOILED CORNED BEEF. 

Put a piece of brisket, weighing six or eight pounds, in 
plenty of cold water. Set at the back of the range out of 
everybody's way, and cook slowly, allowing eighteen min- 
utes per pound. Take up ; wipe carefully ; rub all over 
with butter, and dish. Serve horseradish sauce with it. 
Pour the pot-liquor into the stock-jar. 

ROAST POTATOES. 

Select those of uniform size, and roast in a moderate 
oven until soft. Wipe, and wrap in a napkin, spread 
upon a flat dish. 

SCALLOPED CABBAGE. 

When your beef has begun to boil fairly, put in a firm 
white cabbage, from which you have stripped the outer 
leaves. Cook in the boiling pot-liquor until tender. 
Take out, quarter, and let it cool rapidly. When quite 
cold, chop ; stir in pepper and salt, and put into a greased 
bake-dish. Pour over it half a cupful of soup-stock ; sift 
crumbs thickly on the top, and bake, covered, half an 
hour, or until very hot throughout ; then brown. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Stir two tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish and a 
tablespoonful of vinegar into a cup of drawn butter until 
it is like white cream. If the horseradish be put up in 
vinegar, omit the tablespoonful of that condiment. 

FARINA PUDDING. 

i quart new milk ; 4 tablespoonfuls of farina ; 4 eggs ; 
5 tablespoonfuls of sugar ; nutmeg. 

Soak the farina two hours in a little water. Scald the 
milk ; stir in the farina, and cook ten minutes, using the 
spoon constantly. Pour upon the beaten eggs and sugar. 
Beat all together well. Put in nutmeg to taste, and pour 
into a buttered pudding-dish. Bake half an hour, or until 
firm and well colored. Eat warm not hot. 



THIRD WEEK TUESDAY. 669 

5Ll)trb UUfk. (fuesirag. 

Split Pea Soup. 

Larded Mutton Chops. Tomato S.auce. 

Lima Beans. Macaroni a la Crme. 

Apple and Tapioca Pudding. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

Soak a quart of split peas overnight. Next day, put 
on in the pot-liquor from your corned beef having re- 
moved the fat from the latter. Add an onion, sliced, and 
three stalks of celery, with a few sprigs of parsley, cut fine. 
Boil gently adding boiling water should the liquid sink 
too much three hours. Rub through a colander ; return 
to the fire ; pepper, and stir in a cup of milk, in which has 
been cooked for one minute a tablespoonful of butter, cut 
up in a teaspoonful of flour. Pour out at once upon dice 
of fried bread laid in the tureen. 

LARDED MUTTON CHOPS. 

Cut off the skin and fat. Lard the chops thickly with 
strips of fat pork. Season them with a mixture of pepper, 
salt, and mace. Put into- a saucepan ; cover with a little 
of yesterday's soup, if you have no other gravy, and a 
spoonful of tomato catsup. If you have a spoonful or two 
of green peas left from Sunday, put them in, and a little 
minced onion. Cover, and cook slowly half an hour. 
Turn the chops, and cook twenty minutes longer. Take 
out, and keep warm. Strain the gravy ; thicken with 
browned flour awd a tablespoonful of chopped cucumber 
pickle ; boil two minutes. Put in the chops, and simmer 
three minutes. Arrange the chops upon a hot dish, and 
cover with the gravy. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Stew a can of tomatoes twenty minutes. Pulp through 
a colander, and put back into the saucepan, with pepper, 
salt, sugar, and a great spoonful of butter rolled in flour. 
Simmer twenty minutes more, or until the sauce is of the 
consistency of boiled custard. 



6/O DECEMBER. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Soak the dried beans all night. Next day, cook soft, 
putting them on in cold water, and boiling slowly. 
Drain ; season with pepper, salt, and butter, and dish. 

MACARONI A LA CRME. 

Cook having broken it into short pieces half a pound 
of macaroni ten minutes in boiling water. Pour this off, 
and add a cupful of milk, with a little salt. Stew tender 
in this. In another saucepan heat a cup of milk, thicken 
with a teaspoonful of flour, stir in a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, and, at last, a beaten egg. Drain the macaroni ; 
dish ; stir through it two heaping tablespoonfuls of grated 
cheese, with a little cayenne. Pour on the sauce, and 
serve. 

APPLE AND TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

i teacupful tapioca ; 6 pippins, pared and cored ; i 
quart of water ; i teaspoonful of salt ; a little grated 
lemon-peel ; sugar ; cloves. 

Cover the tapioca with three cups of tepid water, and 
set in a warm place for five hours, stirring once in awhile. 
Pack the apples in a pudding-dish, with a pinch of lemon- 
peel in each. Add a cup of warm water ; cover closely, 
and cook in a moderate oven, turning as they cook at the 
bottom. When soft, drain off the water, fill the centre of 
each apple with sugar, put a clove in each, and pour over 
them the tapioca. Cover, and bake one hour. Eat 
warm, with hard sauce. 



(Zfytrb 



Rabbit Soup. 

Venison Steaks. Oyster Salad. 

Stewed Celery. Potatoes a la Lyonnaise. 



Cottage Pudding 

RABBIT SOUP. 

i large rabbit ; 2 Ibs. of beef-bones ; 2 slices lean 
corned ham ; i large onion ;. bunch of sweet herbs ; a 



THIRD WEEK WEDNESDAY. t>J I 

tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce ; 3 quarts of water ; raw 
egg- crumbs. 

Put the rabbit, jointed, the cracked bones, sliced ham 
and onion, and chopped herbs on in the water. Fit a 
tight cover upon the pot ; set a weight on "top, and stew 
four hours. The meat should be in rags. Strain, rubbing 
the vegetables through the colander. Season, cool, and 
take off the fat. Put over the fire, add some tomato 
sauce left from yesterday/ boil up, and pour out. Chop 
a little of the soup-meat fine while the soup is cooling ; 
season; work in some fine crumbs and a beaten egg. 
Make into balls, flour well, and fry in dripping. Put 
these into the tureen before the soup goes in. 

VENISON STEAKS. 

Trim off the hard skin, and flatten each steak with the 
side of a hatchet. Butter the gridiron well, and have the 
fire clear and hot. Turn often, not to lose a drop of the 
juice. Cook three or four minutes longer than you would 
beefsteaks. The Vertical Broiler is admirably adapted ' 
for broiling venison. Have ready, in a hot chafing-dish, 
a tablespoonful of butter for each pound of venison, a 
pinch of salt, a little pepper, a tablespoonful of currant 
jelly for each pound, and a glass of wine for every four 
pounds. This should be warmed by the hot water 
beneath the dish, by the time the venison is laid in it. 
Turn the steaks twice in it ; cover ; put fresh boiling 
water below, or light the lamp, and let it stand five min- 
utes before serving. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

i quart of oysters cut, not chopped, to pieces ; i 
bunch of celery, also cut small ; 2 tablespoonfuls best 
salad oil ; i teaspoonful of powdered sugar ; % teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and the same of pepper and of made mustard ; 
yolks of 2 raw eggs ; 4 tablespoonfuls cider vinegar. 

Beat the yolks light, with sugar, salt, pepper, and mus- 
tard. Whip in, gradually, the oil until the mixture is 
thick ; add the vinegar beating still a little at a time. 
Put the oysters, drained and cut up, with the celery, into 
a sal-id-dish ; pour over them the dressing ; stir in well ; 



672 DECEMBER. 

garnish with a fringe of delicate celery-tops, and serve as 
soon as possible. 

STEWED CELERY. 

Scrape, and cut the stalks into rather short pieces. 
Cook tender in boiling salted water ; drain this off, and 
add a cupful of drawn butter, well seasoned. Simmer in, 
this five minutes, and pour into a deep dish. 

POTATOES A LA .LYONNAISE. 

12 parboiled and cold potatoes; i chopped onion; 
chopped parsley, pepper, and salt ; butter, or dripping, 
for frying. 

Slice, or chop the potatoes. Heat the dripping in a 
frying-pan. Put in the onion, and fry one minute ; then 
cook the potatoes, adding the parsley and seasoning.. 
Shake and stir constantly lest the potatoes should stick to 
the pan, or brown. They should be done in five minutes. 
Drain off the fat by shaking to and fro in a hot colander 
then dish. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

i cup of sugar ; i tablespoonful of butter, creamed with 
the sugar ; 2 eggs ; i cup of milk ; 3 cups of prepared 
flour ; i teaspoonful scant of salt. 

Rub butter and sugar together ; beat up with the } ; olks ; 
add the milk, the whipped whites lastly, the flour. Bake 
in a buttered cake-mould. Turn out, when done, upon a 
hot plate. In serving, cut in slices, and eat with liquid 
sauce. 



fflijirb ittttk. Sfyuvstrag. 

Vermicelli Soup. 

Veal Cutlets a la Milanaise. Stewed Beans. 

Hominy Pudding. Hot Slaw. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

4 Ibs. knuckle of veal ; i Ib. lean ham ; 2 carrots ; i 
onion ; 4 stalks of celery ; bunch of herbs : i great spoon 



THIRD WEEK THURSDAY. 6/3 

ful of butter ; 6 quarts of water ; 4 tablespoonfuls of ver- 
micelli, broken small, and boiled ten minutes in hot salted 
water. 

Cut up the veal and ham into small pieces ; slice the 
vegetables ; put into a soup-pot in which you have melted 
a great spoonful of butter. Set where it will heat slowly ; 
cover closely, and leave it for one hour, stirring now and 
then. Pour in, then, the cold water, and cook gently 
four hours. Drain off the liquid, pick out meat and 
bones, and put into the stock-jar; pour on all the soup 
not wanted for to-day's use, season, and set away. Pulp 
the vegetables into to-day's soup ; season ; cool, and re- 
move the fat. Put over the fire, and boil and skim five 
minutes. Add the vermicelli simmer one minute, and 
pour out. 

VEAL CUTLETS A LA MILANAISE. 

Make your butcher cut the cutlets very thin about 
half the thickness of those usually sold. Flatten with the 
side of a hatchet ; dip in beaten yolk of egg, then in 
cracker-dust, mixed with pepper and salt. Fry to a fine 
brown in hot dripping. Drain off the fat ; lay upon a hot 
dish, and put upon the middle of each slice (they should 
not be more than four inches long by three wide) a spoon- 
ful of the following sauce : Make a half-cup of drawn but- 
ter ; stir in the stiffened white of an egg, with a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. 
Beat light with your egg- whisk ; heat very hot, and pour out. 

STEWED BEANS. 

Soak white beans all night. Put them on in the morn- 
ing in cold water, and cook soft. Drain, and pour over 
them some nice gravy soup-stock, if you have no other ; 
add a little finely-minced onion, and simmer ten minutes. 
Turn out without draining. 

HOMINY PUDDING. 

i cupful of cold boiled hominy (the small-grained) ; 2 
cups of milk ; i heaping teaspoonful of butter warmed ; 
i teaspoonful of sugar ; 3 eggs ; a little salt. 
29 



6/4 DECEMBER. 

Mix all together in a smooth batter/and bake in a but 
tered pudding-dish. Eat hot. 

HOT SLAW. 

Boil the cabbage in two waters. Drain, when tender ; 
chop quickly, press out all the water, and put into a deep 
dish. Heat in a saucepan half a cup of vinegar, one 
tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of sugar, pep- 
per and salt at discretion. When scalding, add a half 
teaspoonful of flour wet with water. Boil one minute, and 
pour upon the cabbage. If you have celery vinegar at 
hand, use for this dressing. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 
See Friday, Fourth Week in November. 



Jrtirag. 



Corn and Tomato Soup. 

Baked Halibut. Stewed Pigeons. 

Mashed Potatoes. Fried Salsify. 

Dorchester Cracker Plum -Pudding. 

CORN AND TOMATO SOUP. 

Take the fat from the top of your stock. Drain off the 
soup, and add a can of corn, chopped fine, and the same 
of tomatoes, rubbed through a colander. Cook all slowly 
one hour ; add what seasoning is required, and pour out. 

BAKED HALIBUT. 

Get a cut of halibut weighing five or six pounds, and lay 
for two hours in salt and water. Wipe dry, and score the 
outer skin. Set in the baking-pan ; pour a cupful of boil- 
ing water, in which has been mixed a tablespoonful of 
butter, over it, and bake one hour, basting often with but- 
ter-and-water. When a fork will penetrate it easily, it is 



THIRD WEEK FRIDAY. 6?$ 

done. Lay upon a hot dish ; add a little boiling water to 
the gra /y, stir in a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, the juice 
of half a lemon, and a little browned flour, wet up with 
cold water. Serve in a boat when you have boiled it one 
minute. 

STEWED PIGEONS. 

Clean the pigeons, tie them in shape, and cook pre- 
cisely as you did the grouse on Friday, First Week in 
December. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Serve with the halibut. 

FRIED SALSIFY. 

Scrape, and boil until tender. Drain and cool. Mash 
to a paste, picking out the fibres. Add a very little milk, 
a spoonful of butter and a beaten egg and a half for each 
cupful of mashed salsify. Make into flat, round cakes ; 
roll in flour, and fry brown. 

DORCHESTER CRACKER PLUM-PUDDING. 

2 quarts of milk ; 6 Boston crackers, split and buttered ; 
8 eggs, beaten very light ; 2 cups of sugar -, nutmeg, 
cloves, and cinnamon to taste ; i Ib. of raisins, seeded 
and cut in two ; i teaspoonful of salt. 

Heat the milk almost to boiling, and pour upon the 
beaten eggs and sugar, with the seasoning. Do not boil 
it again. Butter a pudding-dish ; put a layer of buttered 
crackers in the bottom, buttered side up, and moisten 
with a few spoonfuls of custard. Cover thickly with 
raisins, and these with crackers, buttered side downward. 
Moisten with hot custard, and repeat the order given, 
until crackers and fruit are all in the dish. Pour in cus- 
tard until only the surface of the upper layer is visible, 
but not enough to float them. Cover, and leave all night 
in a cold place Add the rest of the custard in the morn- 
ing, at intervals of five or six minutes between the cupfuls. 
Bake, covered, two hours in a moderate oven; then 
brown. Eat hot, with sauce. 



6/6 DECEMBER. 



tihek. 

Sheep's Head and Barley Soup. 

Bacon and Eggs. Cheese Fondu 

Canned String-Beans. Mashed Turnips. 

Lemon Tartlets. 

SHEEP'S HEAD AND BARLEY SOUP. 

i sheep's head, carefully cleaned, with the skin on ; 4 
pig's feet, also cleaned nicely ; 2 onions ; 2 turnips ; 2 
carrots ; bunch of sweet herbs ; i can of tomatoes ; 
cup of soup-barley, soaked two hours in a little water ; 
7 quarts of water ; pepper, salt, mace, and sugar. 

Crack the bones of the head and feet ; wash very well ; 
put the sliced vegetables and the herbs into a pot with 
the water, and cook gently five hours. At the end of 
three hours add the tomatoes. Should the liquid boil 
down to less than five quarts by the time you are ready to 
add the tomatoes, replenish from the tea-kettle. When 
the five hours are up, strain off the soup. Put bones and 
meat into the stock -jar, and add all the clear soup you do 
not want to-day. Season, and set aside. Now pulp the 
vegetables into the soup left out for Saturday's dinner t 
season, cool, and skim off the fat. Return to the fire 
with the barley, and simmer half an hour. 

BACON AND EGGS. 

Cut one pound of streaked bacon into thin long slices ; 
put into a frying-pan and cook slowly, turning often, until 
quite crisp. Pour off and strain the fat, and pour two 
tablespoonfuls of it into a stone-china or block-tin dish. 
Add two larger spoonfuls of good gravy left from yester- 
day's pigeons, with as much cream, in which have been 
mixed half a teaspoonful of flour and a pinch of soda. Set 
this in a dripping-pan, with boiling water in the bottom, 
but not enough to overflow the dish, and stir upon the 
top of 'the range until quite hot. Then break upon it seven 
or eight, or more eggs, and put into a quick oven to " set" 
When firm, send to table with the bacon laid about them. 



THIRD WEEK SATURDAY. 

CHEESE FONDU. 

i cup dry and fine bread-crumbs ; 2 scant cups of milk, 
ivith a pinch of soda stirred in ; Ib. dry cheese, grated ; 
3 beaten eggs ; i small tablespoonful of melted butter \ 
pepper and salt. 

Soak the crumbs in the milk ; beat in eggs, butter, sea- 
soning finally the cheese. Butter a pudding-dish ; pom 
in the mixture, strew crumbs on the top, and bake in a 
rather quick oven to a light brown. Serve at once, as it 
soon falls. 

CANNED STRING-BEANS. 

Cut into short lengths ; cover with hot, salted water, and 
cook forty minutes. Drain ; dish, and stir in pepper, salt, 
and butter. 

MASHED TURNIPS. 

See Sunday, Second Week in December. 

LEMON TARTLETS. 

5 e gg s ) 5 tablespoonfuls of sugar ; i quart of milk ; 
cup of prepared flour; i lemon, a large one juice and 
grated peel ; a pinch of salt. 

Heat the milk ; stir in the flour wet with a little cold 
milk, and heat again, stirring all the while. Pour upon 
the beaten yolks and sugar ; cook for one minute. Take 
from the fire, and beat in the lemon-juice and grated rind. 
Have ready, baked and hot, some shells of purl-paste 
lining " patty-pans. " Fill with the mixture and cover 
each with a meringue made of the whipped whites and a 
little powdered sugar. Put into the oven to set, and Hght- 
ly color the meringue. Eat fresh, but not hot. 



678 DECEMBER. 



Jottrtl] tflcek. 

Clear Sago Soup. 

Roast Beef. Potato Balls. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes. Apple Sauce. 

Celery. 

Ribbon Blanc-Mange. 
Coffee and Cake. 



CLEAR SAGO SOUP. 

Remove the fat from your soup-jelly. Pour off as 
much as you need for to-day, without disturbing the sedi- 
ment. Heat, simmer and skim until the scum ceases to 
rise ; put in half a cup of German sago which has been 
soaking one hour in a little water. Cook gently until 
clear. 

ROAST BEEF. 

Lay in a dripping-pan and pour a cup of boiling water 
over it. Roast, about ten minutes per pound, basting 
frequently and copiously. When done, dish ; pour the 
strained gravy into a bowl and set -in ice-water to throw 
up the fat. Remove this, return the gravy to the fire, 
pepper, salt, and thicken with browned flour. Boil once, 
and serve in a boat. 

POTATO BALLS. 

Mash potatoes very light with butter, milk and salt, and 
beat in two raw eggs. Put into a buttered saucepan, 
and stir until hot and stiff. Turn out and let the paste 
get cold. Then make into balls ; roll each in flour ; half 
an hour before taking up the roast beef, pour off nearly 
all the gravy, and lay the balls about the meat in the 
dripping-pin. Baste them whenever you baste the meat, 
and cook to a fine brown. Drain off the grease, and serve 
as a garnish to the beef, when dished. 

FRIED SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil, peel, and let them get cold. Then slice length- 
wise; pepper, salt, flour, and fry quickly in good drip, 
ping. Drain well and serve hot. 



FOURTH WEEKSUNDAY.. 6/9 

APPLE SAUCE. 
See Wednesday, Second Week in November. 

CELERY. 
See Monday Second Week in December. 

RIBBON BLANC-MANGE. 

i quart of milk ; i package Cooper's gelatine ; f cup 
of sugar ; i great spoonful of grated chocolate, wet in 
a very little cold milk ; beaten yolk of one egg ; i great 
spoonful of cranberry juice ; vanilla extract. 

Soak the gelatine one hour in a cup of the milk. Heat 
the rest to scalding ; add sugar and soaked gelatine, and 
stir eight minutes over the fire. Strain through a muslin 
bag into four bowls, putting equal p'ortions in all. Color 
one brown by stirring in the wet chocolate ; another yel- 
low, by beating in the yolk ; a third, pink with cranberry 
juice, or currant jelly. Leave the fourth white. Return 
each portion, excepting this last, to the fire in its turn, and 
stir until very hot. When all are cold and beginning to 
congeal, wet a mould, and pour in, first, half of the white ; 
next, half of the pink ; thirdly, half of the yellow ; 
fourthly, half of the brown. Upon this brown empty the 
rest of the white, and let the pink, yellow, and brown fol- 
low in course. Let each of the eight courses get firm 
enough to bear the next before adding more. Do all this 
on Saturday. On Sunday, turn out and pass with light 
cake, followed by coffee. The vanilla extract is intended 
for the chocolate only. 

This is a beautiful dish, easy and safe. 



68O DECEMBER. 

Jonrtl) tthfk. fftonbag. 

Cream Soup. 

Larded Beef. Mashed Potatoes, 

Baked Tomatoes, French Mustard. 

Apples, Oranges, and Nuts. 
Tea and Crackers. 

CREAM SOUP. 

Put the contents of your stock-pot over the fire ; add 
as much boiling water as is needed to make soup for to- 
day. First, however, take out the sheep's tongue, and 
lay it aside. Simmer the soup for one hour ; strain and 
season ; return to the fire, and when it is hot, add a table - 
spoonful of butter rolled in flour ; next, the sheep's 
tongue, skinned and cut into dice. Boil up ; pour into 
the tureen, and stir in a cup of hot milk in which two 
beaten eggs have been cooked one minute. 

LARDED BEEF. 

Thrust lardoons of fat salt pork quite through your 
cold roast, when you have trimmed off the ragged parts. 
Put into a deep pan ; strew with chopped herbs, and 
minced onion, pepper, salt, and four or five whole cloves ; 
also, a tablespoonful of chopped green pickle. Half 
cover with broth made from yesterday's skimmed gravy, 
and a little soup-stock. Cover the pan closely, .set in a 
moderate oven, and cook one hour more, if the piece 
be large. Turn, when the time is half gone. Dish the 
meat, strain, and thicken the gravy. Give it one boil , 
pour a little upon the meat, the rest into a boat. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Mash, or whip up light with milk, butter arid salt, and 
heap roughly upon a hot dish. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

See Thursday of First Week in December. Save the 
surplus juice. 



FOURTH WEEK TUESDAY. 68 1 

APPLES, ORANGES, AND NUTS. 

S ipply clean plates, fruit-knives, and nut-crackers with 
this course. 

TEA AND CRACKERS. 
Pass, without further change of plates. 



-fourtl) 

Baked Soup. 

Mock Pigeons. Spinach. 

Potato Puff. Stewed Corn. 

Arrowroot Pudding, Hot. 

BAKED SOUP. 

3 Ibs. of beef, cut into small squares ; \ Ib. lean ham, 
chopped ; i Ib. of veal, cut small ; 2 onions ; 2 carrots ; 
2 tablespoonfuls German sago ; can of green peas ; pep- 
per and salt ; 6 quarts of water. 

Put the chopped ham in the bottom of a broad jar that 
will go into your oven : cover with sliced vegetables, 
some of the peas and sago, and this with beef or veal. 
Pack vegetables and meat in alternate layers, seasoning 
each with pepper and salt. Pour in six quarts of water, 
if the jar will hold so much; fit on a close cover; spread 
a paste of flour and water around the edge to keep in the 
steam ; set in a dripping-pan of hot water, and leave in a 
moderate oven six hours, replenishing the water in the 
pan, now and then. Dip out as much soup just as it 
comes as you want for to-day, at the end of this time ; 
let it cool sufficiently to enable you to take off the fat ; 
heat in a saucepan just to the boiling point, and pour into 
the tureen. Add a quart of boiling water and a little 
salt to the contents of the jar; cover, while hot, and set 
away in a cold place, as stock and excellent stock it 
will be. 

MOCK PIGEONS. 

2 large cutlets of veal, cut rather thin, and beaten flat ; 
\ Ib. of fat salt pork ; yolks of two hard-boiled eggs ; I 
29* 



682 DECEMBER. 

cup of bread-crumbs ; pepper, salt, and r tablespoonful 
of chopped onion pickle ; a little sugar ; powdered or 
minced parsley ; a little oyster-liquor. 

Lay the cutlets upon a dish, and spread the upper side 
with a force-meat made of the ingredients above enume- 
rated ; roll each up closely ; bind in shape with soft string, 
and lay in a dripping-pan. Pour over them two cupmls 
of boiling water, in which have been mixed two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, and the surplus tomato-juice saved from 
yesterday's can of tomatoes. Cover with another pan of 
the same size inverted and set in a steady oven. Bake 
a little over an hour half an hour more, should the 
" pigeons" be large. Take them up when tender, and 
brown, clip, and withdraw the strings, and keep hot while 
you strain, season, and thicken the gravy. Boil one min- 
ute, and pour into a boat. 

SPINACH. 
See Tuesday, Second Week in December. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

See Thursday, Second Week in December. 
STEWED CORN. 

Empty a can of corn into a saucepan ; cover with boil- 
ing salted water, and stew half an hour. Drain off the 
water, and cover the corn with a cupful of drawn butter, 
well seasoned. Simmer, stirring often, fifteen minutes, 
and pour out. 

ARROWROOT PUDDING HOT. 

3 even tablespoonfuls arrowroot ; i quart fresh milk ; 
i tablespoonful of butter ; 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar ; 4 
eggs, beaten light ; nutmeg and vanilla flavoring. 

Scald the milk ; wet the arrowroot with cold water, and 
stir into the hot milk, until the latter is well thickened. 
Cream the butter and sugar ; beat up very light with the 
eggs, and stir into the thickened milk. Flavor ; pour into 
a buttered mould ; set in a pot of boiling water not deep 
enough to float it and boil steadily for one hour. Set 
in cold water one minute, and turn out upon a hot dish. 
Eat with brandy or wine sauce. It is very nice. 



FOURTH WEEKWEDNESDAY. 683 



Jiourtt) ilUek. Uhfrncstrag. 

Sweetbread Ball Soup. 

Chicken and Ham Pie. Rice Croquettes 

Stewed Salsify. Creamed Potatoes. 



Cup Puddings. 



SWEETBREAD BALL SOUP. 

Boil, blanch, cool, and chop very fine two sweetbreads 
mix with them one-third their bulk of fine crumbs, previous- 
ly soaked, and rubbed smooth with a little cream. Beat up 
the yolk of a raw egg, and work all with pepper and salt to 
a paste. 'Make into small balls with floured hands, and 
set by for half an hour in a cold place. Strain off two 
quarts of soup from your stock-jar, when you have 
skimmed it. Heat and boil slowly five minutes, skimming 
it well. Drop in the balls very carefully not to break 
them ; simmer ten minutes very gently, to avoid the same 
catastrophe, and pour into the tureen. 

CHICKEN AND HAM PIE. 

1 chicken ; i Ib. of lean veal ; Ib. corned ham ; yolks 
of 3 hard-boiled eggs ; i cup of gravy or stock ; |- can of 
mushrooms ; pepper and salt ; good paste for cover. 

Joint the chicken; cut the veal and ham into dice/ 
slice the mushrooms and yolks ; place in alternate layers, 
seasoned with pepper and salt, in a large pudding-dish ; 
pour in the gravy, and cover with a thick crust of good 
pastry. Ornament the edges, and make a slit in the 
middle. Bake in a steady oven, and when almost done, 
wash over with beaten egg. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

2 cups of cold boiled rice ; 2 tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter ; 3 beaten eggs ; a little flour ; 2 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar ; a large pinch of grated lemon-peel, and salt to 
taste ; raw egg and pounded cracker. 

Beat eggs and sugar together, and work the butter into 
the rice. Stir all together ; season ; make into cro- 



684 DECEMBER. 

quettes ; roll in egg and cracker-crumbs, and fry, a few at 
a time, in sweet lard. Drain, by rolling them on soft 
white paper,, and eat hot. 

STEWED SALSIFY. 

Scrape, dropping into cold water as you do it ; cook 
tender in boiling salted water; drain this off; pour on a 
cupful of drawn butter, and stew five minutes. Serve in a 
hot, deep dish. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

Boil, and, while hot, slice the potatoes. Make a sauce 
by heating a cup of milk, stirring into it a great spoonful 
of butter, a scant teaspoonful of corn-starch, wet in cold 
water, a little chopped parsley, and boiling until thickened. 
Beat in the frothed white of an egg, and pour upon the 
potatoes, which should first have been put into a deep dish 
and sprinkled with pepper and salt. 

CUP PUDDINGS. 

3 e gg s ) tne weight of the eggs in flour, prepared ; half 
their weight in sugar ; one-quarter of their weight in but- 
ter ; 2 tablespoonfuls of milk ; a little nutmeg. 

Rub butter and sugar together ; add the beaten yolks, 
the milk ; at last, the whisked whites and flour, alternately.. 
Bake in small buttered tins, or cups. Eat warm, without 
or with sauce, according to your preference. 



Jburtl) 



Noodle Soup. 

Roast Pig. Apple Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes. Stewed Celery. 

Mince Pie. 

NOODLE SOUP. 

Empty your stock-jar into the soup-pot, adding as much 
boiling water as you' may need, with additional seasoning, 



FOURTH WEEK THURSDAY. 685 

and any bones you may chance to have. Simmer one 
hour, or more ; strain, return to the fire, and boil and 
skim for five minutes, before dropping in a generous 
handful of noodles dried, or fresh. Simmer twenty min- 
utes. For receipt for noodles, please consult Wednesday, 
First Week hi August. 

ROAST PIG. 

See that your butcher has done his part well in clean- 
ing the month-old pig. Rinse out with soda and water, 
chen with fair water, wiping the pig dry, inside and out. 
Prepare a dressing of a cupful of crumbs, half a chopped 
onion, two teaspoonfuls powdered sage, three tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter, a saltspoonful of salt, and as much 
pepper, half a grated nutmeg, and the yolks of two beaten 
eggs. Moisten with half a cup of soup-stock, and .stuff 
the little fellow into his original size and shape. Sew him 
up, and place in a kneeling posture in a dripping-pan, 
skewering or tying his legs in the proper position. 
Dredge with flour. Pour a little hot salted water in the 
dripping-pan. Baste with butter and water three times as 
the pig warms ; afterward, with gravy from the dripping- 
pan. When he begins to smoke all over, rub every ten 
minutes with a rag dipped in melted butter. This will 
keep the skin from cracking. Roast in a moderate, 
steady oven two hours. 

Put the innocent still kneeling upon a large hot 
dish ; surround with parsley and blanched celery-tops. 
Put a wreath of green about his neck, and a sprig of cel- 
ery in his mouth. 

Skim and strain the gravy ; thicken with browned flour ; 
boil up, add a glass of wine and the juice of a lemon, and 
serve in a boat. 

In carving, cut off the head first ; then split down the 
back ; take off hams and shoulders, and separate the ribs. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Prepare and serve as usual. 

STEWED CELERY. 
See Wednesday, Third Week in December ' 



O50 DECEMBER 

MINCE PIE. 

2 Ibs. lean fresh beef, boiled, and, when cold, chopped 
fine ; i Ib. beef suet, powdered ; 5 Ibs. of apples, pared, 
cored, and chopped ; 2 Ibs. of raisins, seeded and 
chopped ; I Ib. sultana raisins, washed, and picked over ; 
2 Ibs. of currants, washed, and carefully picked over ; 
Ib. of citron, cut up fine ; 2 tablespoonfuls of cinnamon ; 
i powdered nutmeg ; 2 tablespoonfnls of mace ; i table- 
spoonful of cloves, and the same, each, of allspice and 
fine salt ; 2^ Ibs. of brown sugar ; i quart brown sherry ; 
i pint best brandy. 

Mix all these thoroughly, putting in the liquor last. 
Make it, at least, twenty-four hours before it is needed. 
Keep in a stone jar, with a tight cover, and a piece of 
bladder tied over the top. When ready to bake your 
pies, line greased pie-dishes with good paste, put in the 
mince-meat, and lay strips of pastry, notched with a jag- 
ging-iron in a lattice pattern, over the top. 

This mince-meat will keep all winter if not used up. 



Jburtt) tDeck. Jribag. 

Lobster Soup. 

Ragout of Roast Pig. Puree of Canned Peas. 

Sweet Potatoes. Cabbage Salad. 



Rice Pudding Meringue. 

LOBSTER SOUP. 

i can of preserved lobster ; 2 anchovies ; i onion ; i 
quart of milk ; bunch of sweet herbs ; grated rind of half 
a lemon ; pinch of soda, stirred in the milk ; 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter rolled in flour; i quart of water; pepper 
and salt ; 2 raw eggs. 

Put sliced onion, anchovies, chopped herbs, lemon-peel 
and the can-liquor on in the water, and boil down to a 
pint. Strain, put in the chopped lobster meat, with pep- 
per and salt. Heat to a boil ; stir in the floured butter ; 



FOURTH WEEK FRIDAY. ' 687 

simrner fifteen minutes and pour into the tureen. Add 
the milk boiling hot in which have been cooked for 
two minutes two beaten eggs. Send around sliced lemon 
and crackers with this soup. 

RAGOUT OF ROAST PIG. 

Slices of cold roast pig ; the rest of the can of mushrooms 
opened on Wednesday ; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter ; 3 
beaten eggs ; i Cupful of gravy or stock ; juice and grated 
peel of half a lemon ; chopped parsley, cayenne, salt and 
mace to taste. 

Put gravy and mushrooms into a saucepan ; heat to 
boiling, put in the butter rolled in flour,; cut the slices of 
pig of nearly equal size ; rub over with pepper, salt, mace, 
and lemon-peel ; put them into the gravy and make very 
hot, but do not boil. Stir in the beaten eggs and lemon- 
juice ; simmer three minutes and pour into .a dish lined 
with crustless slices of fried bread. 

PUR^E OF CANNED PEAS. 

Boil the peas soft in hot salt water ; drain, and pulp 
through a colander into a saucepan. Add a great spoonful 
of butter rolled in flour ; three tablespoonfuls of milk or 
cream, a little sugar, pepper and salt. Simmer five 
minutes stirring constantly and pour out. 

SWEET POTATOES. 
See Sunday, First Week in December. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 
See " Cold Slaw," Saturday, First Week in December. 

RICE PUDDING MERINGUE. 

i quart of fresh milk ; i cup of raw rice ; 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter ; i cup of sugar ; 4 eggs ; grated peel of ^ 
lemon ; a little mace and cinnamon. 

Soak the rice in the milk three hours, then heat in a 
farina-kettle, and simmer tender. Cream butter and 
sugar, add the beaten yolks and one beaten white, and 



688 DECEMBER. 

when the rice has cooled a little, beat all together with the 
seasoning. Bake about forty minutes in a buttered pud- 
ding-dish. When firmly set, cover with a meringue made 
of three whisked whites beaten up with a little sugar and 
lemon-juice. 

Jbtrrtl) tlUek. 



Transparent Soup. 

Larded Rabbits. Scalloped Cauliflower. 

Fried Parsnips. Mashed Turnips. 

Cabinet Pudding. 



TRANSPARENT SOUP. 

4 Ibs. of lean, coarse beef, cut into strips ; 2 slices of 
lean ham, also stripped ; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter ; 2 
turnips ; i carrot ; 2 onions ; 2 stalks of celery ; pepper 
and salt to taste ; i tablespoonful of gelatine, soaked two 
hours in a little cold water ; 5 quarts of water ; sweet 
herbs. 

Put the butter into the soup-kettle ; when it heats, add 
the meat, cover close, and set where it will heat without 
scorching. In half an hour set directly over the fire 
and stir until the meat is coated with a brown glaze. Put 
in a pint of lukewarm water, and when this has boiled 
down to one-half, add four quarts and a half of cold water ; 
skim off the top and boil slowly four hours. Cook, in a 
separate saucepan, the sliced carrot, turnips, herbs, celery 
and the onions ; these last already sliced and fried in drip- 
ping. Cover with a quart of water, and boil down to a 
pint. Strain off the clear liquor, and add to the soup. Set 
aside the vegetables without pulping them. Now, strain 
off as much of the soup as is needed for to day, and let it 
cool. Put the rest, .well seasoned with salt and pepper, 
into the stock-jar with the boiled vegetables, and keep 
for another day. 

Take all the fat from your cooled soup, strain through 
muslin back into the scalded soup-kettle, season, boil up 
and skim ; add the soaked gelatine, and stir until clear. 



FOURTH WEEK SATURDAY. 689 

LARDED RABBITS. 

. 2 rabbits ; \ Ib. fat salt pork ; i cup of soup-stock di- 
luted with hot water ; bunch of herbs ; onion ; a glass 
of wine ; pepper and salt, butter and flour. 

Divide each rabbit into quarters ; lard the upper sides 
of these with strips of pork. Fry until lightly browned. 
Put into a saucepan and nearly cover with broth ; strew 
with onion, parsley, pepper and salt, and simmer forty-five 
minutes, or until tender. Dish, and keep the rabbits hot ; 
strain the gravy, add a good lump of butter rolled in 
browned flour, and a glass of wine ; boil fairly and pour 
over the rabbits. 

SCALLOPED CAULIFLOWER. 
See Sunday, Third Week in December. 9 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 

Boil tender ; scrape ; slice lengthwise, season with pep- 
per and salt, dredge with flour, and fry to a golden brown 
with lard or dripping. Drain and serve hot. 

MASHED TURNIPS. 
See Sunday, Second Week in December. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Ib. of prepared flour; J Ib. of butter; '5 eggs; i 
Ibs. of sugar ; Ib. of raisins, seeded and cut into thirds ; 
J Ib. currants, washed and dried ; cup of milk ; -J lemon 
juice and grated peel. 

Cream butter and sugar ; add the beaten yolks, the 
milk, then the flour and whipped whites, by turns. Last 
of all, stir in the fruit, well dredged. Turn into a well- 
buttered mould and boil steadily nearly three hours. Be 
careful that the water does not bubble over the top of 
the mould. When done, dip in cold water for one minute ; 
turn out, and eat with hot, sweet sauce. 



Company Dinners. 



JANUARY. 

OYSTERS ON THE HALF SHELL. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 
HALIBUT A LA ROYALE. 

ROAST TURKEY, CRANBERRY SAUCE. 
POTATOES A LA DUCHESSE. CELERY. 

JUGGED RABBIT. ROAST BEEF. 

FRENCH BEANS SAUTES. SALAD, 

CRACKERS AND CHEESE. 
MINCE PIE. VANILLA CREAM. FRUIT. COFFEE, 



FEBRUARY. 

OYSTERS ON THE HALF SHELL. 

CLEAR VERMICELLI SOUP. 
BOILED COD, SAUCE HOLLANDAISE. STEWED PIGEONS. 

POTATOES AU NATUREL. GREEN PEAS. 

ROAST DUCK. FILET DE BCEUF. CELERY, STEWED. 

SALAD. 

CHEESE AND WAFERS. CABINET PUDDING. 

TUTTI FRUTTI CREAM. FRUIT. COFFEE. 



692 COMPANY DINNERS. 

MARCH. 

ROMAN PUNCH. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

OYSTER PIE. SMOTHERED CHICKEN. GREEN PEAS 

CELERY. 
VENISON STEAKS. BEEF A LA MODE DE ROME, 

LETTUCE SALAD. BAKED TOMATOES. 

CRACKERS AND CHEESE. SLICED APPLE PIE. 

TURRET CREAM. FRUIT. CAFE" NOIR. 



APRIL. 

OYSTERS ON THE HALF SHELL. 

OX-HEAD SOUP. 

BAKED SHAD. PATE" OF SWEETBREADS. 

SPINACH AND EGGS. WHOLE BERMUDA POTATOES, 

SNIPE ON TOAST. CELERY. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON, CAPER SAUCE. SALAD 

SCALLOPED CAULIFLOWER. 

BIRD'S NEST PUDDING. LEMON ICE. 

FRUIT. COFFEE, 



MAY. 

CLEAR SOUP. 

BOILED BASS, WITH MUSHROOMS. ROAST SWEETBREADS. 

BERMUDA POTATOES, AU NATUREL. GREEN PEAS, 

BROILED SQUABS. ROAST LAMB, MINT SAUCE. 

ASPARAGUS ON TOAST. TOMATO SALAD. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE AND CREAM. 

CHOCOLATE BLANC-MANGE. FRUIT AND ICES, 

COFFEE. 



COMPANY DINNERS. 

JUNE. 

ROMAN PUNCH. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

BOILED SALMON. LAMB CHOPS. 

POTATOES A LA LOUISE. STUFFED TOMATOES. 
SMOTHERED CHICKENS. LANGUE DE BCEUF. 

ASPARAGUS ON TOAST. GREEN PEAS. 

SNOW CUSTARD. ICES. FRUIT AND DESSERT. 
STRAWBERRIES. COFFEE. 



JULY. 

CONSOMME SOUP. 
BROILED SPANISH MACKEREL. FRIED CHICKENS. 

RAW CUCUMBERS. SALAD. 

SALMI OF DUCKS. BEEF A LA MODE. 

BOILED CORN. NEW POTATOES. 

CREAM RASPBERRY PIE. SELF-FREEZING ICE-CREAM, 

CRACKERS AND CHEESE. 
FRUIT. COFFEE. 



AUGUST. 

MRS. B.'s CORN SOUP. 

FILLETS OF HALIBUT, WITH POTATOES. 

DIJON PATE\ DEVILLED TOMATOES. 

BROILED WOODCOCK. BOILED CHICKEN AND TONGUE. 

GREEN PEAS. STUFFED EGG-PLANT. 

PEACH LECHE CREMA. MELONS. CAKES AND CHEESE, 

ICES. COFFEE. 



694 COMPANY DINNERS. 

' SEPTEMBER. 

RAW OYSTERS. 

TAPIOCA SOUP. 
BAKED BLUE FISH. 

CASSEROLE OF RICE, WITH CHICKEN AND TONGUE. 
POTATOES AU MAITRE D'HdTEL. DEVILLED CRABS. 

MOCK QUAILS. ROAST LAMB. 

SPINACH A. LA CREME. SALAD. CREAM SQUASH. 

DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. PEACH ICE CREAM. 

COFFEE. FRUIT. 



OCTOBER. 

RAW OYSTERS. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

OYSTER PATE". FRICASSEE OF CALF'S TONGUES. 

SALAD. POTATOES A LA PARISIENNE. 

CHICKENS AND MUSHROOMS. 

ROAST BEEF AND YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 
CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. SWEET POTATOES. 
AMBER PUDDING. DRUNKEN DOMINIE. 

FRUIT. ICES, NUTS AND RAISINS. CAFE NOIR. 



NOVEMBER. 

ROMAN PUNCH. 
CHICKEN AND CREAM SOUP. 

PANNED OYSTERS. LAMB CHOPS, BREADED. 

CELERY SALAD. BAKED TOMATOES. 

FRICASSEE OF GROUSE. ROAST SADDLE OF MUTTON. 

POTATOES A LA DUCHESSE. SALSIFY SAUTE. 

CRACKERS AND CHEESE. APPLE MERINGUE PIE. 

CHOCOLATE TARTLETS. FRUIT AND ICES. 

COFFEE. 



COMPANY DINNERS. 695 

DECEMBER. 

OYSTERS ON THE HALF SHELL. 
MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES. STEWED PIGEONS* 

POTATOES X LA LYONNAISE. CHEESE FONDU. 

ROAST HAUNCH OF VENISON. 

BOILED BEEF TONGUE, SAUCE PIQUANTE. 

SWEET POTATOES. OYSTER SALAD. 
MACARONI A LA CREME. 

MINCE PIE. CABINET PUDDING. FRUITS AND ICES, 
CAFE NOIR. 



INDEX. 



SOUPS. 

PAGE 

A la Bonne Femme Soup .... 422 

..... .... 266 

Al'Italienne " .... 16 

" .... 302 

All-night " ---- 345 

Amber " .... 329 

Asparagus (Green) ' .... 322 

(White) " .... 353 

Au Julienne " .... 36 

Ayrshire Broth ............... 502 

Baked (A) Soup ............. 438 

11 (B) " ............. 174 

" Hotch Potch .......... 333 

Barley Broth ................. 216 



" Cream Soup 
Bean " 

" Baked " 

" and Celery " 
11 " Corn " 
" " Tomato " 
Bechamel " . 

Beef 

" and Barley " 
" with " " 



588 
46 
634 
165 
231 
444 
413 
ii 
135 
176 
Beef Bouillon ................ 469 

" Gravy Soup ............ 513 

" Noodle " ............ 455 

' Olives " ............ 587 

" Stock " . ........... 495 

" Tea with Noodles ...... 601 

Bisque of Lobster ........... 388 

30 



Blanche's Soup 100 

Bone " 194 

Bouillon of Beef 278 

Bread Soup 153 

" " 651 

" and Cheese Soup 389 

" " " Porridge.. 428 

" " Meat Soup 541 

Broiled Bones " 365 

Brown Beef " 320 

" Soup 415 

Butter (or Lima) Bean Soup.. 442 

Cabbage " .. 417 

Calf's feet " .. no 

" head " .. 258 

" " (plain) " .. 420 

Catfish " ..556 

Cauliflower " .. 624 

" (without Meat) " .. 493 

Celery Soup 63 

126 

" 650 

Cheap " 564 

Chicken Broth 160 

" 190 

" " 210 

" and Corn Soup 457 

523 

" Cream " 626 

" Panada 368 

." and Sago Soup 664 

" Soup 236 

" (with Eggs) Soup 436 



698 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Clam Chowder .............. 207 

" .............. 355 

" Soup .................. 121 

" .................. 270 



Clear Gravy Soup ........... 55 

" Sago " ........... 400 

" Soup .................. 227 

" " .................. 287 

" " .................. 484 

' ' Vermicelli Soup ....... 97 

Combination " ........ 81 

Consomme " ........ 411 

Convent " , ....... 395 

Corn " ........ 445 

" (Canned) " ........ 297 

" Mrs. B.'s " ....... 479 

Crab " ........ 418 

Cracker " ........ 335 

Cream " ........ 384 

11 ........ 467 

" ........ 155 

" Almond " ........ 251 

Crust Soup ................. 275 

Curry " ................. 205 

" ................. 549 

Dieppe " ................. 578 

Dresden " ................. 224 

Dundee Broth ..... .......... 107 

Eel Soup ................... 249 

" ............ . ...... 470 

Egg " ................... 516 

" ................... 566 

" ................... 627 

English Soup ................ 74 

Excellent Stock Soup ....... 581 

Family " ........ 606 

11 " ........ 102 

Fancy Macaroni " ........ 534 

Farina " ........ 487 

Fine White " ....... .- 37 

Fish Chowder ............... 52 

" ............. 481 



PAGB 

Fish Chowder Soup ....... 506 

French Potage .......... .... 405 

Friar's Soup ............... 129 

Frugal " ................ 280 

Game " ............... ^ 614 

German Sago Soup ......... 78 



Giblet Soup ................. 137 

................. 188 

" ................. 433 

" " ................. 536 

" (Brown) Soup ......... 656 

Good Stock " ......... 212 

" White " ......... 260 

Graham " ......... 238 

" ......... 639 

Gravy and Sago " ......... 114 

" Sou P ................... 397 

Green Bean Soup ............ 562 

" Pea ............ 375 

...... .. .......... 306 

Halibut Chowder ............ 382 

Ham and Egg Soup .......... 245 

" Veal " .......... 490 

Hash (A) .......... 500 

Hasty " .......... 184 

Hot Pot ..................... 293 

Hotch-Potch ................. 124 

Irish Broth .................. 610 

Italian Minestra Soup ........ 295 

Paste " ........ 407 

Jelly Soup .................. 380 

Jugged Soup ................ 402 

Julienne " ................ 157 

" ................ 379 

" ................ 539 

Kilkenny " ................ 447 

Lexington Soup ............. 86 

Lobster Bisque .............. 146 

" (Quick) Soup ........ 201 

" ........ 537 

Soup ............... . 686 

Macaroni Soup .............. 33 



INDEX. 



699 



PAGE 

Macaroni Soup 132 

" 197 

" 304 

Marie's " 141 

Marlowe " 357 

Marrow-Bone Soup 554 

Medley " 486 

" 633 

Melange " 246 

Milk " 604 

" and Bread " 229 

Minced Beef " 300 

Mock Turtle " 203 

41 Bean Soup 117 

White " 482 

Monday Soup 464 

Mother's " ,. 83 

Mulligatawny Soup 310 

Mutton Broth 476 

' ' Noodle Soup 520 

" and Oyster Soup.... 611 
" Rice, and Tomato 

Broth 386 

" with Tapioca, Soup. 43 

Next Day's Soup 274 

Noodle " 684 

Oberlin " 518 

Okra and Tomato Soup 284 

Old Hare " 94 

Onion . " 282 

" Maigre 543 

Ox-cheek Soup 478 

" 527 

Ox-head " 271 

" 372 

Ox-tail " 220 

" SS8 

Oyster " 179 

" 253 

Pea and Potato Soup 342 

Peas, Puree of 72 

44 Peas Porridge Hot " 268 

Pea (split) Soup 105 



PAGB 

Pea (split) Soup ............. 22 

" " without meat, Soup 192 
41 and Tomato Soup ....... 423 

Poor Roger's " ....... 576 

Porridge, Savory .......... . . 199 

Potage d Croutons ........... 440 

Potage au Riz ............... 144 

Pot au Feu .................. 262 



Pottage, Red ................ 234 

Plain Soup .................. 180 

.................. 648 

Potatoes, Puree of ........... 370 

Potato Soup ....... .......... 92 

................. 150 

Quick Beef Soup .... ........ 349 

" Soup ................. 475 

Rabbit 44 ................. 670 

Rechauffe Soup ............. 233 

Rice 44 ............. 425 

Rice and Tapioca Soup ...... 373 

Rissole " ...... 528 

Rule-of-Three 4 ' ...... 532 

Sago " ...... 316 

Scotch Broth ................ 19 

................ 337 

" ................ 264 

44 Second Thought" Soup... 120 

Sheep's Head 44 ... 66 

" ... 324 

" and Barley 4 ' ... 676 
Sister Anne's ' 4 ... 459 

Soup and Bouilli ........... 575 

44 Maigre .............. 312 

............... 29 

Soupe 3. la Langue ......... 643 

Soupe Verte ................. 255 

Squash Soup ..... ........... 426 

Squirrel 44 ................ 489 

" ................ 553 

St. Remo Broth ............. 525 

Stew Soup ............ ...... 392 

String-Bean Soup ........... 394 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Summer Soup 454 

44 Melange Soup 363 

Sweetbread 314 

Ball " 683 

Tapioca Soup 182 

* " 466 

Tomato and Bean Soup 170 

41 Pea " 359 

Tomatoes, Puree of 327 

Tomato Soup 347 

" 58 

218 

" (without meat) Soup. 408 

Transparent Soup 688 

Turnip " 568 

Veal and Rice Broth 69 

" Sago Soup 49 

" Tapioca Broth 291 

Veal Broth 403 

" and Oyster Soup 623 

Vegetable Consomme Soup.. 512 

dlaCrecy " .. 545 

" with Eggs " .. 471 

Venison Soup. . . . . 635 

Vermicelli " 26 

44 215 

41 " 240 

" 377 

Wednesday's Soup .......... 163 

Western 4< 590 

White Broth 583 

44 Stock Soup 508 

44 Soup 89 

44 186 

44 (Simple) Soup 658 

Winter Pea " 618 

FISH. 

Bass, Boiled 459 

44 4< with Mushrooms. 327 

44 Fried 72 

Blue Fish; Baked 543 

44 Boiled 225 



PACK 

Cod, Boiled 30 

44 4< with Sauce 163 

41 * 4 4 ' Caper Sauce 234 

44 with Macaroni 619 

44 Salt, Pate of 210 

Crab, Devilled 440 

Fish Chowder 52 

44 Mayonnaise of 236 

Halibut, Baked 193 

44 a la Royale 433 

44 Fillets of 254 

41 4< with Pota- 
toes 493 

44 Steaks 23 

44 " Broiled 158 

Lobster, Devilled 174 

44 Croquettes 223 

44 " 652 

41 Fricassee 341 

44 Mayonnaise of 446 

Mackerel, Salt, with Cream 

Sauce in 

44 Spanish, Broiled. 407 

Oysters, Fried 92 

44 Panned 40 

Oyster Pates 568 

Pie 129 

44 Salad 26! 

44 56 

44 Sauce 78 

Oysters, Scalloped 26 

" 556 

Pickerel, Baked 356 

4< Cream 518 

Fried 592 

Salmon, Boiled 396 

44 Scallops 370 

14 Croquettes 283 

44 Pudding 44 

44 Canned, Fricasseed. 639 

Shad, Baked 268 

Boiled 296 

44 Fried 312 



INDEX. 



701 



Shad, Price, au Gratin. .'. .... 351 

44 Roe Croquettes 313 

" Roes Scalloped 298 

Weak Fish, Fried '. . 208 

For receipts for cooking Trout, 
the reader is referred to u COM- 
MON SENSE IN THE HOUSE- 
HOLD," No. i, pages 64 and 65. 

MEATS, ENTREES, ETC. 

Bacon and Apples, Fried 98 

" " Eggs 676 

Beef d la Mode 303 

44 " " du Rome 213 

" 4< Reine 560 

" Boiled, and Vegetables.. 469 

44 Bouillon of ....278 

4 ' Braised 437 

" " Larded 499 

" Browned Mince of 215 

44 Cannelon of 564 

" Corned, Boiled 115 

266 

44 4< and Turnips... 441 

Beefs Heart 285 

44 44 Stuffed 392 

Beef, Larded 347 

" 154 

14 Miroton 375 

^' of 268 

" and Potato Pasty 341 

" Pressed 305 

" Pudding 62 

44 Rechauifeof 385 

Roast 151 

" 44 Tenderloin of. ... 201 
*' " and Round Pota- 
toes 346 

" and Potato Balls. 183 
" 44 Browned Po- 
tatoes 497 

" >ith Yorkshire 

Pudding 59 



PAGB 

Beef, Rolled. . .v 103 

" 364 

Beefsteak, Rolled. 20 J" 

44 

41 au Maitre d' Hotel. 446 
Baked 291 

Larded, Broiled... 566 ' 

44 and Onions 173 

44 with Onions 84 

Pie 623 

" Pudding 232 

" 491 

44 with Wine Sauce.. 430 

44 Stewed 206 

Beef Stew, Brown 536 

44 Stewed with Macaroni .. 551 
Beefs Tongue (Langue de 

Boeuf) 89 

" 358 

44 44 with Green 

Peas 494 

44 44 with Sauce 

Piquante . . 650 

Brunswick Stew 477 

Calf's Head, Baked 108 

226 

44 4I and Mushrooms. 467 
14 4< Imitation Turtle. 258 
44 4I Ragout of, and 

Mushrooms . . 142 

44 4I Savory 419 

Calves' Hearts, Stewed 527 

Calfs Liver a 1'Anglaise 130 

44 44 and Bacon 594 . 

44 and Ham. ' Pick x/ 

up" Dish 388 

44 4I a la Mode 56 ~ 

" 44 Larded 308 

Calves' Tongues, Fricassee of. 553 

Cannelon of Beef 564 / J' 

Casserole of Rice, Chickens 

and Tongu* 525 

Chicken, Boiled 249 



702 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Chickens, Boiled, with Maca- 

roni ...... 86 

44 " and Tongue 456 

" Braised ...... ." ..... 462 

44 Broiled ..... . ....... 470 

Chicken, Browned Fricassee 

of .............. . 179 

Cutlets ............ 434 

Croquettes (Potato). 592 
44 Dumplings ........ . 639 

Chickens, Fricasseed, Brown. 105 
White. 55 

....... 534 

44 Fried .............. 421 

Whole ....... 396 

44 and Mushrooms ---- 560 

Chicken Pates ............... 163 



44 and Ham Pie.. ...... 683 

14 Pot Pie, with Dump- 

lings .............. 383 

44 Pudding ............ 296 

41 and Ham Pudding.. 193 
Chickens, Roast ............. 73 

" ............. 432 

44 and Pork .......... 337 

44 l4 Rice .......... 161 

44 Scalloped .......... 235 

Chicken Scallop ............. 437 

44 4< and Baked 

Eggs ...... 464 

Chickens, Smothered ........ 188 

44 44 with Mush- 

rooms... 517 
" with Oys- 

ters ..... 12 

44 with Mushroom Sauce 223 
44 a la Viennoise ..... ... 637 

Chicken, Roulettes of ........ 557 

44 Stewed ............ 147 

" ............ 323 

" Whole ..... 409 

...... ..... 578 



MOB 

Ducks i la Mode 666 

Duck, Braised 208 

Ducks, Fricassee of 547 

Larded 485 

44 and Macaroni, Casse- 
role of 486 

Duck, Pate of ico 

44 Ragout of 605 

44 " and Green 

Peas 452 

44 Roast 31 

Ducks, " 167 

Duck, Salmi of 34 

" 424 

Ducks, Stewed 98 

Whole 450 

Fowl, Mince of 81 

44 and Rice Croquettes... 628 

Goose, Rechauffe of I 633 

44 Roast 631 

Grouse, Braised 652 

" Fricassee of. 615 

Ham and Eggs 170 

44 Baked 133 

44 Boiled 45 

44 Broiled 487 

44 Glazed 241 

44 and Macaroni Pudding, 

Milanese 351 

44 and Omelette 330 

Hare, Roast 67 

Hot Pot 95 

" 570 

Imitation Oyster Scallops.... 543 
Kidneys, Saute, with Wine. . . 501 
Lamb, Breast of, with Macaroni 390 

" Chops 349 

44 Cutlets 379 

44 Pudding 573 

44 Minced ..-333 

44 Roast 287 

" " 33* 

44 Stewed a la Jardiniere. 512 



INDEX. 



703 



PAGE 

Lamb, Stewed a la Jardiniere, 
with Mushroom 

Sauce 360 

Mutton Batter Pudding 507 

44 Boiled Shoulder of. . 187 

" 139 

Breast of, Roast.... 272 

" Chops, Baked 653 

" " Breaded and 

Baked .... 549 
" " Breaded and 

Fried 181 

" Broiled 75. 

" Larded 230 

" " " 368 

669 

" " and Tomato 

Puree 149 

" Cutlets, Baked 256 

Fried 127 

" " Stewed 343 

44 Game 458 

" Haricot of 488 

44 Leg of, Boiled 262 

44 Mince of 27 

Minced and Eggs... 199 
41 Ragout of 247 

300 

415 

" Roast 93 

" 197 

Pie 264 

*' Pilau of. . .... 274 

" and Potato Pudding. 402 

44 Saddle of, Roast 608 

" Shoulder of, Larded. 400 
" Stewed a la Jardiniere. 69 
41 Stew with Dumplings 587 

44 " Peas 435 

44 Stuffed Shoulder of. 316 

Pate de Foie de Veau 513 

Pig, Roast 685 

" Ragout of 687 



PAGE 

Pigeons, Mock 417 

44 " with Mushroom 

Sauce 276 

44 Jugged 165 

Pigeon Pie 195 

Pigeons, Stewed 125 

Pork and Beans 71 

44 Chops with Tomato 

Gravy. . . ; 625 

" Pie, English 144 

44 Roast Chine of 613 

41 Steaks 641 

Quails, Mock 509 

Rabbits, Jugged 49 

648 

44 Larded 689 

Rabbit, Ragout of 626 

Rabbits, Roast 603 

Sheep's Head baked a la 

Russe 520 

Sheep's Tongues, Stewed.... 381 

Stew, Irish 221 

" Killarney 606 

Sweetbreads, Fricassee of. . . . 370 
44 Larded, Stewed 112 

Pate of. 254 

44 Roast 328 

11 53 

'.,'.. Rissoles of. .... 568 
" Stewed brown.. 239 

Turkey, Boiled 78 

41 and Ham 137 

14 Minced and Eggs... 657 

44 Roast 37 

4 620 

44 44 and Sausages. 655 

44 Scallop ... 40 

" 621 

Steamed 135 

Turnovers, Swiss 219 

Veal, Braised 411 

44 Breast of, Braised 541 

44 " Roast 156 



704 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Veal, Breast of, Stewed 294 

44 Oysters and Sweet- 
breads, Cannelon of. . . 660 

" Collops 454 

" with Tomato Sauce 582 

44 Cutlets 634 

" " a la Milanese.... 673 

" " Breaded 442 

" " with Brains 204 

44 and Ham Cutlets, a la 

Polonaise 532 

" and Ham 64 

" with " 321 

Fillet of, Baked 596 

" 473 

44 " with Ham .... 243 

Stewed 658 

Stuffed, Fillet of, with 

Bacon 353 

" Fillet of, Stuffed 46 

44 and Ham Pie 159 

44 Lemon 398 

44 and Oyster Pie 598 

" Loin of, Stuffed 177 

Pates 245 

" Pate Dijon 475 

11 Ragout of. 122 

Scallop 356 

11 Scalloped 427 

44 Stuffed, with Green Peas 425 

Venison, Haunch of. 117 

" 643 

" Larded 120 

44 Pasty 645 

Steaks 671 

VEGETABLES. 

Asparagus in Ambush 309 

41 and Eggs 296 

with 326 

" Omelette 375 

" on Toast 288 

Pudding 338 



PAGH 

Asparagus, Rolls 350 

Beans, Baked 21 

44 Boiled 149 

" French, a la Creme... 597 

" Boiled 244 

44 " and Fried Brains 109 
" Garnis with Sau- 
sages 173 

Beans, French, with force-meat 

Balls 301 

Beans, French, Stewed with 

Peas 391 

Beans, French Saut6 (Fresh). 358 
" " " (Canned) 60 

44 Fried 619 

44 Kidney au Maitre 

d'H6tel 645 

Beans, Kidney 125 

44 " Fricasseed.... 586 

44 Fried 421 

4t 4< al'Anglaise... 609 

41 44 with Sauce 178 

" Lima. 118 

" " (Fresh) 360 

14 " Stewed 387 

447 

. Navy 352 

44 and Pork 71 

44 String, Canned 47 

14 String, Fresh 321 

Beets, Boiled 393 

44 Saute 374 

44 Young 358 

Broccoli 216 

Brussels Sprouts 8a 

Cabbage au Gratin 546 

Chopped..' 589 

44 Ladies' 106 

44 44 au Maitre 

d'Hotel ... 623 

44 Minced 140 

44 Sprouts 223 

44 " and Eggs.. 277 



INDEX. 



70S 



PAGE 

Cabbage, Stuffed ............ 243 

" and Sausage ....... 635 

ColdSlaw ................... 598 

* " with Cream Dressing 618 

14 i< Egg Dressing.. 233 

Hot Slaw .................... 173 

Cabbage Salad .............. 21 

Cauliflower a la Creme ....... 209 

" au Gratin ........ 13 

" Cream Sauce.... 64 

" Boiled ........... 522 

with Sauce ....... 115 

" " " Tartare. 511 

' Scalloped ....... 267 

" Stewed .......... 159 

Carrots, Mashed ............. 99 

" Stewed ............. 607 

Celery, Baked ............... 175 

" Minced, with Egg 

Dressing ........... 51 

" Raw ................. 28 

" Salad ................ 13 

" " Egg Dressing.. 123 

Stewed .............. 32 

" " with Egg ..... 112 

" " Savory ....... 73 

Corn, Baked ................. 47 

11 Green, Boiled Whole.. 395 
" Cut from Ccb.. 478 
" " Fritters ......... 509 

|: Fritters ............... 323 

11 Pudding ' .............. 221 

< " Green ......... 412 

Puddings ............. 137 

' and Tomatoes ......... 484 

" Stewed . . 85 

" ... 466 

" Stewed ................ 38 

Cucumbers, Fried .......... 406 

" Raw ............ 424 

Egg-plant, Breaded ......... 484 

Fried in Batter... 498 



PACK 

Egg-plant, Stewed 505 

" Stuffed 491 

Hominy, Baked 153 

44 Croquettes 90 

" Pudding 256 

Macaroni al Napolitano 59 

Baked 115 

" Boiled 223 

" Chopped 259 

" au Gratin 602 

" with Cheese 45 

" with Cod 619 

" with Breast of Lamb 390 

" with Eggs 237 

Shred 166 

" with Ham 67 

" Savory 290 

" and Tomato Sauce. 406 
" Stewed with Toma- 
to Sauce, 189 

" with Bacon.. /..... 640 

" Pudding. 654 

Onions, Baked .'V 630 

" Boiled 364 

" " with Sauce... 444 

" Cream 430 

" Stewed brown. 477 

" " plain 292 

14 Young, Stewed 332 

Parsnips, Buttered 228 

Parsnip Cakes 87 

Parsnips, Creamed 245 

Fried. 35 

Parsnip Fritters 283 

Parsnips, Mashed 570 

" Stewed 131 

Peas, Canned 63 

Pea (Green) Cakes 368 

Peas " (Fresh) 288 

44 " and Fried Brains 90 

" " 168 

Pea 4< Fritters 340 

Peas, Puree of. aoS 



30* 



7 o6 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Peas, Pure of with Crean . . 317 

Pea (Green) Pancakes 309 

" (Split) " 235 

Peas Pudding. 613 

" Stewed, with French 

Beans 391 

Polenta 591 

Potatoes d la Duchesse 57 

" " Lyonnaise 45 

" a 1'Italienne 53 

" alaCreme 250 

" Louise 381 

44 ' 4 Parisienne 577 

" " Reine 98 

auMaitre d'Hotel.. 80 

" 4< Naturel 60 

" " Gratin 130 

" with Ver- 
micelli. 176 

Baked... 106 

" 138 

" " with Beef. 151 

" " " Steak.... 292 

Potato Balls... 145 

" with Beef. 183 

11 .Baked 389 

" Batter Pudding 402 

Potatoes, Boiled, Plain 156 

" Bermuda, au Naturel 206 

. - Baked 217 

" " Boiled..... 259 

" " en Robe de 

Chambre 309 

" " Whole 271 

41 en Robe de Chambre 362 

" Broiled 555 

" Browned 21 

Potato, Browned 76 

Potatoes, " Whole 103 

44 Buttered 385 

Potato, Casserole of. 461 

" Cannelon of. 597 

" Cakes 47 



Potato Cakes 563 

" 257 

Chips 185 

Cones, Baked 633 

" Chopped 252 

321 

41 " with Corn. .. 403 

" Cheese Sauce 453 

44 in Cases 109 

44 Creamed 143 

" Croquettes 161 

531 

44 Edging 317 

" Eggs 288 

Potatoes, Fried 267 

Potato Frill 27 

Potatoes, Glazed 171 

Potatoes, Mashed, Browned.. 38 

14 

Moulded.. 404 
" 4I au Gratin. . 513 

44 Milanese 181 

Moulded. 118 

" . Mound 529 

New 393 

11 " Stewed 401 

Old, " 232 

" Omelette 410 

Potato Pasty 341 

4 Puff d la Geneve.. 544 

44 Puffs, Fried 457 

" 378 

4 Puff 18* 

44 Puree of. 349 

Potatoes, 4< 567 

44 4< with Gravy... 593 

Potato Rissoles 198 

Potatoes, Roast 41 

44 Savory. 228 

4i Scallops 343 

.....159 

44 Scalloped, with Eggs 643 
Scooped 354 



INDEX. 



70; 



PAGE 

Potat DCS, Scored. ...... '. ..... 63 

" Stewed ............ 134 

" ............ 261 

" ............ 65 

14 " Creamed... 215 

Potato Stew ......... ........ 154 

Potatoes Stewed Whole ..... 93 

Cream ..... 348 

Potato Strips ................ 149 



Potatoes, Stripped, Fried.... 325 

Stewed.. 553 

Potato Snow ................ 299 

Potatoes, Squeezed .......... 283 

44 Sweet, Baked ...... 82 

44 Boiled ...... 136 

" " " ...... 101 

" " Browned... 535 

" " Fried ....... 121 

" Glazed ..... . 627 

" in Jackets... 35 
" " and Irish 

Chopped. 84 

" ' Sliced ...... 183 

Whipped .......... 87 

" with Halibut Fillets. 493 

44 " Vermicelli ..... 615 

Pudding, Scotch, Savory ..... 168 

" Bread, " .... 610 

" Graham, " .... 647 

44 Yorkshire, No. i...- 59 

41 No. 2... 584 

Rice, Baked ................. 315 

44 Boiled, a la Geneve ____ 95 

" ' 4 in Broth ........ 489 

" 4I Plain .......... 301 

4I with Sauce ..... 550 

'* Buttered. ...... ........ 330 

" Casserole of; with Calf s 

Brains .............. 339 

", Casserole of, with To- 

mato Sauce ......... 226 

" and Cheese ........... 123 



PAGH 

Rice Croquettes 31 

44 Croquettes a fa Princesse 582 
" 4I with Giblets.. 409 

44 " Savory 366 

44 Pudding, Naples 136 

44 4< Savory 79 

" 279 

Salsify, Fried 73 

Fritters 57 

44 or Mock Stewed 

Oysters 145 

Saute 601 

Stewed 35 

Sea Kale 290 

44 on Toast 310 

Spinach a la Creme 93 

44 4< 44 Parisienne. 241 

44 44 44 Reine 294 

44 Beaten 378 

44 Boiled 24 

44 Dressed with Egg 348 

44 Garnished " ... 281 

44 in a Mould 169 

44 Moulded 252 

44 on Toast 325 

44 with Eggs 133 

Squash a la Creme 416 

44 au Gratin 496 

" Baked 409 

" 593 

44 Creamed .....438 

44 Mashed 374 

44 Scalloped 393 

44 Stewed 399 

44 Stuffed 514 

41 Winter 147 

Succotash 101 

44 Canned 202 

44 with Lima Beans.. 503 

Tomatoes, Baked 28 

44 4< with Ham... 383 

44 Whole 390 

" <4 with Gravy. 463 



INDEX. 



Tomatoes, Broiled 471 

" Devilled 443 

Tomato Omelette, with Cheese 278 

Tomatoes in a Mould. 547 

Tomato Puree 149 

Tomatoes, Raw 319 

Tomato Sauce 41 

" " with Macaroni. 189 

" " Onion 496 

44 Salad 338 

" . " Egg Dressing. 376 

" Scalloped 121 

11 " with Corn. 270 

Tomatoes, Stewed " 76 

44 " with Onions. 53 

" " Onions 

and Bread. 313 
" " with Onions. 394 

and Corn (Fresh) 

Stewed 466 

Stewed Plain 14 

" Stuffed 364 

" with Corn 521 

" " Meat 480 

4 II ii roj 

" " Gravy. 480 

Turnips and Corned Beef. . . . 441 

44 Mashed 143 

44 Puree of. 563 

44 Stewed. 360 

44 with White Sauce... 95 

44 Young 339 

Vegetables, Ragout of 448 

EGGS. 

Eggs and Asparagus 296 

44 Baked with Scallop 464 

44 and Cabbage Sprouts.. 277 

44 Fricasseed 617 

44 and Macaroni 237 

44 with Minced Mutton... 199 

" " Ham 34 

44 and Mushi^oms 540 



warn 

Eggs, Poached 334 

41 Puree of 580 

Omelette, Asparagus 375 

44 Baked, aux Fines 

Herbes 501 

44 Giblet 519 

44 with Gravy 482 

44 " Ham 330 

44 Tomato with Cheese 278 
41 with Tomatoes. . . 600 

CHEESE. 

Cheese Custards 603 

44 Fingers 164 

44 Fondu 54 

44 Ramakins 285 

SALADS. 

Salad, Bavarian 567 

44 Bean 611 

44 Beet Root 140 

44 4< " and Potato.. 589 

44 Cabbage 21 

152 

44 Celery 13 

44 " Egg Dressing. . 51 

44 Chicken 252 

44 Cress 299 

Cresses 269 

Cucumbers, Raw 399 

Salad, Cucumber and Onion. 500 

4 ' Lettuce 198 

44 ' and Cress.... 311 
44 44 Cream Dress- 
ing 219 

44 " Plain 229 

44 4< and Veal 246 

Mayonnaise of Lobster. 446 

41 Fish 236 

Salad, Oyster 56 

14 with Lettuce... 261 

44 Potato 290 

44 and Beet 36" 



INDEX. 



709 



PAGE 

Salad, Potato 451 

Slaw, Cold 91 

- " Cream Dressing. .. 162 
14 Egg " ... 599 

44 Hot 173 

Salad, Summer 331 

" 492 

" Tomato 338 

" " Egg Dressing.. 354 
" Iced " .. 376 
Turkey 82 

SAUCES FOR MEAT. 

Sauce, Apple 60 

Bread 31 

44 Caper 24 

44 " for Mutton 263 

" Cheese, for Potatoes.. 453 

" Cranberry 37 

" Cream, for Mackerel., in 
" " Cauliflower 64 

.1 ii .. II5 

" for Codfish 30 

44 Egg 211 

" " for Chicken 249 

" Horse-radish 392 

559 

" Mint 288 

" Mushroom 223 

44 " for Lamb.. 360 

Mustard, Made 60 

Sauce, Onion and Tomato... 496 

" for Kidney Beans 178 

" Beef's Tongue.... 358 

" Piquante 90 

" Oyster 217 

44 Tartare 511 

44 Tomato 41 

" " for Macaroni .. 189 

" " Rice 226 

" Rhubarb or Pie-plant. 294 

" for Salmon 44 

White, for Turnips. . 95 



PIES, TARTS, ETC. 

PAGB 

Pie, Apple 32 

" " Custard 460 

44 " Meringue 128 

44 Sliced 180 

44 Blackberry 447 

Cherry 359 

14 Cream Peach 521 

" " Raspberry 408 

" Corn-Starch Custard... 279 

14 Lemon Cream 567 

14 Lemon Meringue 432 

44 Mince 80 

" 686 

44 Peach 470 

44 " Whole 496 

44 Pineapple... 309 

14 Potato 99 

44 " Irish 331 

44 Pumpkin 136 

Squash 555 

14 Sweet Potato 665 

Napolitainoes 597 

Strawberry Meringue 328 

Tartlets, Chocolate 617 

Tart, Damson 529 

44 Gooseberry 393 

44 Open Apple Custard... 479 
44 Raspberry and Currant 

Jelly 121 

14 Raspberry and Currant. 423 

44 Rhubarb 242 

Tartlets, Jelly 116 

44 Lemon 677 

44 Orange 627 

PUDDINGS, PUFFS, ETC. 

Pudding, Alice's 260 

Amber 557 

44 Apple 614 

" 468 

44 " Meringue.... 63 
41 44 Souffle 531 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Budding, Apple and Tapioca. 22 
Apple Compote au Gratin. . . . 455 

udding, Arrow-root 152 

Hot 682 

" Batter 625 

" 307 

" Blackberry, Baked.. 514 

' Boiled, Plain 178 

" 607 

Bread 334 

44 " and Custard. 638 

44 " and Raisin... 277 

44 " Steamed 205 

" " Corn 391 

" Cherry 410 

" " Susie's 45 

44 " Custard 564 

" " Brown Bettie "... 91 
41 Bubble 559 

Cabinet 96 

44 Cherry Souffle 420 

" Cocoa 604 

Cocoanut 570 

,. 218 

281 

354 

" " Sponge... 182 

44 Corn-meal Fruit.... 58 
44 4< Hasty... 230 

44 " Steamed 250 

" " without 

Eggs.. 209 

44 Corn-starch Hasty.. 18 
44 ' 4 Custard 403 

44 Cottage 25 

44 Cream 374 

Puddings, Cup 684 

Pudding, Diplomatic 519 

41 Dorchester Cracker 

Plum 675 

44 Essex 156 

44 Farina Hasty 173 

" ' ..668 



PAGB 

Pudding, Farina, Cold 418 J 

Fig 68 

44 " Custard 191 ** -V" 

44 Flour Hasty 624 

44 Graham Hasty 321 

44 Huckleberry, Baked 443 

44 Indian 449 

Jam 65 

44 Lausanne 583 

44 Lemon 176 

44 Macaroni 150 

Plain 261 

44 4I and Almond 51 

44 4< Sweet, with 

Brandied 

Fruit 83 

44 Minced 71 

44 Neapolitan 301 

44 Newark 286 

44 Nursery Plum 224 

44 Oat - meal, with 

Cream 292 

44 Orange 612 

44 Omelette Meringue. 588 

Peach 546 

44 Batter 248 

" 154 

Potato, Sweet 164 

" 585 

44 Plum, Impromptu.. 661 
44 Poor Man's Plum... 162 

44 Queen's 171 

44 621 

Puddings, Queen of 235 

M with Straw- 
berry Me- 
ringue... 311 
Pudding, Rice Meringue. . . . 687 

44 44 Southern 183 

44 ' and Tapioca.. 289 

44 Ruby's 548 

44 Seymour 134 

44 Sponge-Cake Souffle 66; 



INDEX. 



711 



PAGE 

Snowballs , , 109 

Pudding, Sponge-Cake 143 

Tapioca 257 

" " English 126 

Puddings, Transparent 198 

Pudding, Unity 104 

" Wayne 220 

44 Willie's Favorite... 196 

Puffs^ Corn-meal 140 

" Cottage 187 

" 412 

" German 297 

44 Jersey 336 

" Lemon 265 

44 White 207 

DUMPLINGS, FRITTERS, 
ETC. 

Dumplings, Apple, Baked 48 

" " Boiled 542 

44 Belle's 227 

44 Berry, Baked 487 

44 Cherry, " 371 

Suet 639 

Fritters, Apple 593 

" Jelly Cake 238 

" . Orange 76 

" Peach 506 

44 Potato 540 

1 ' Rusk 649 

" Suet 639 

Marmalade Roll 324 

Pancakes, Plain 636 

" with Preserves 160 

Queen's Toast 222 

Roley-Poley, Blackberry 473 

Cherry 385 

41 Jam 87 

PUDDING SAUCES. 

Sauce, Bee-hive 77 

" Brandy 48 



FAGR 

Sauce, Cabinet Pudding 96 

44 Cottage " 25 

44 Cream 104 

44 Sweet no 

4 4 Hard 22 

" Jelly 157 

44 Wine 88 

" ; ... 194 

CUSTARDS, BLANC-MANGE, 
JELLY, ETC. 



Ambrosia 

" Pine-apple 

Apple Charlotte 

44 Meringue 

44 Snow 

Apples, Stewed with Cream.. 

Blanc-Mange 

Almond Corn- 
starch 

14 Almond 

44 Chocolate 

44 44 and 

Cocoanut. . .. 

44 Corn-starch 

44 Lemon 

Narcissus 

14 Neapolitan 

44 Ribbon 

Velvet 

Charlotte Russe 

Coffee, Meringue 

Cream, Bavarian 

Coffee 

41 Spanish 



212 
273 
550 
634 
148 
611 
14 

424 
284 
338 

632 
326 

liV 
679 

516 X, 
383 

581 

533 
434 
387 



41 Turret 169 

Creme du The, Cafe et Choco- 

lat 85 

Custard, Almond, with Cocoa- 
nut Frost 451 

44 Ambrosia 431 



712 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Custards, Baked, Chocolate.. 233 

Custard, Barley 644 

Custards, Cup, Baked 313 

' ' Boiled 629 

" 271 

" Cup, Boiled 101 

Custard, Burnt 295 

" Chocolate 131 

44 Farina 138 

' French Tapioca 94 

Custards, Jelly 554 

Custard, Margherita Lemon.. 74 
'* Mountain or Junket. 376 

11 Quaking 240 

44 Rose's Rice 35 

" Snow 214 

" 346 

44 Island, Floating.... 42 

Ice-Cream, Self-freezing 414 

" Peach 485 

Jaune Mange 200 

Jelly, Birds' Nest in 244 

' Claret 438 

44 Lemon 145 

" Raspberry and Currant, 

with Whipped Cream. 401 
" Wine, with Whipped 

Cream 119 

Omelette aux Confitures 315 

" Jelly 462 

" Souffle 113 

Peach (Canned) Leche Crema. 263 
" (Fresh) 474 

Pears, Stewed with Rice 528 

Pie-plant (April) Fool 229 

Quince Souffle 569 

Rock-work 538 

Snow, Apple 148 

' ' Orange 426 

" Rice 572 

44 Tropical 39 

Syllabub 502 

Trifle, Apple 202 



PAG 

Trifle, Ambushed 269 

" Apricot 591 

" Drunken Dominie.... 589 

" Lemon 299 

(Cake) 406 

44 A Mere 123 

44 Peach 492 

" Strawberry , 369 

" Tipsy 28 



CAKES. 

Cake, Apple 

" Corn-starch, Cup 

44 Cream 

Cakes, " 

41 \ " Boston 

Cake, " Rose 

Charlotte Cachee 

Cake, Huckleberry 

41 Martha's 

44 Myrtle's 

11 Orange 

Sponge 

Mrs, M.'s 

44 White 

44 " Mountain 

Gingerbread, Sponge 

Soft... 



Shortcake, Blackberry, Hot.. 

Huckleberry 

44 Raspberry, Cold.. 

Hot.. 

44 Strawberry 



189 
663 
436 
544 
255 
609 
244 
465 
644 
216 
536 

IS 
566 
632 
572 

54 
106 
253 
504 
458 
382 
367 
343 



FRUIT DESSERTS. 

Apples and Nuts 29 

Bananas, Oranges and Cher- 
ries 428 

Bananas and Oranges 320 

Blackberries 453 

Cherries 399 

Currants and Raspberries .... 429 



INDEX. 



713 



Grapes, Boiled Chestnuts and 

Apples ; 586 

Huckleberries and Cream. . . . 440 
Melons, Peaches and Pears.. 494 
" Nutmeg and Peaches 484 
" Water- 
melons... 471 

Nuts and Raisins 144 

Peaches and Cream 457 

Raspberries and Cream 395 

" Cream and Cake 404 

373 

Straw berries and Cream 348 



PAGB 

Strawberries 378 

Watermelons and Pears 487 

DRINKS. 

Cafe au Lait 107 

Chocolate 54 

Cocoa.. 15 

Coffee 19 

" Iced 46*; 

" and Whipped Cream. . 260 

Tea 42 

" a la Russe 574 

" Iced 436 



A. NJ3TW EDITION 

Uniform -with the re-issue of "Common Sense in the Household* 



THE DINNER YEAR-BOOK 

By MARION HARLAND, 

AUTHOR of "COMMON SENSE IN THE HOUSEHOLD," "BREAKFAST, 
LUNCHEON, AND TEA," etc., etc. 



One vol., 12 mo, 72O pages, Price, $1.75 

KITCHEN EDITION IN OIL-CLOTH COVERS AT SAME PRICE. 



THE DINNER YEAR-BOOK is, in its name, happily descriptive of its purposes and char- 
acter. It o-cupies a place which, amid all the publications upon cookery and their 
name is Legion lias never yet been occupied. 

The author truly says that there have been dinner-giving books published, that is 
books of menus for company dinings, " Little Dinners," for e.speci a 1 occasions, etc., etc. ; 
but that she has never yet met with a practical directory of this important meal 
for every day in the year. In this volume she has furnished the programme 
in all its details, and has superintended the preparation of each dish, proceeding even to 
the proper manner of serving it at the table. The book has been prepared for 
the family, for the home of ordinary means, and it has hit the 
happy line "where elegance and economy meet. , 

The most numerous testimonials to the value of Marion Harland's "Common Sense" 
books, which the publishers have received, both in newspaper notices and in private 
communications, are to the effect always expressed with some astonishment that the 
directions of these receipts, actually followed, produce the prom- 
ised result. We can prophesy the same for the new volume. 

The purchaser will find that he has bought what the name purports The Dinner 
Year-Book a practical guid-e for the purchase of the material and preparation, serving, 
etc., of the ordinary home dinner for every day of the year. To these are added 
twelve company dinners, one for each month, from which a selection can be 
made according to the time of the year equal to any occasion which will be presented 
to the housekeeper. 

This book, however, is not valuable merely as a directory for dinners appropriate to 
various seasons. It contains the largest number of receipts for soups, fish, 
meat, vegetables, entrees of all descriptions, and desserts, ever offered to the 
American public. The material for this work has been collected with great care, 
both at home and abroad, representing the diligent labor of many months. 

Note, T/ie original Rdttion of The Dinner Year Book, with six colored plates, 
illustrating twenty-eight subjects, handsomely bound in cloth, will be continued in 
print at the regular price, $2.25. 



*** For sale by all booksellers, or will be sent, post or express charges paid, upon 
receipt of the price, by 

CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, PUBLISHERS, 

743 AND 745 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, 



" To those tuho love a pure diction, a healthful tone, and thought that leads up 
to the higriff a.nd better aims, tha-t gives brighter color to some of the hard, dull phases 
of life, that awakens the mind^tit renewed activity, and makes one mentally tetter, 
the prose and poetical works of Dr. Holland mill prove an ever new, e-ver welcome 
source from which to draw,"" NEW HAVEN PALLADIUM. 



(Joraplrf F Mrilings of #p.3.(J.];[oHanb 

WITH THE AUTHOR'S REVISION. 
Each one vol., 16mo, (sold separately,) Price, $1.23. 



Messrs. CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS have now completed the issue of 
a New Edition of Dr. Holland's Writings, printed from new plates, in a very 
attractive style, in artistic binding, and at a greatly reduced price. 

It is believed that the aggregate sale of Dr. Holland's Books, amounting 
as it does to half a million volumes, exceeds the circulation of the writings of 
any other American author. There is not a single book of his which has not 
had an unquestionable success, and most of them have been in such constant 
and increasing demand that the plates were actually worn out. 



ESSAYS. 
TITCOMB'S LETTERS, GOLD FOIL. THE JONES FAMILY, 

LESSONS IN LIFE, PLAIN TALKS, 

EVERY-DAY TOPICS, First Series, 

EVERY-DAY TOPICS, Second Series. A New Volume. 

POEMS. 

BITTERSWEET, ' MISTRESS OF THE MANSE, KATHRINA, 

PURITAN'S GUEST, AND OTHER POEMS. 

NOVELS. 

ARTHUR BONNICASTLE, BAY PATH, NICHOLAS MINTURN 
MISS GILBERT'S CAREER, SEVENOAKS. 

16 Volumes, in a Box, per set, - - $2O.OO. 



Complete Poetical Writings of Dr, J. G. Holland, 

With Illustrations by Reinhart, Griswold, and Mary Hallock Foote, 
and Portrait by Wyatt Eaton. Printed from New Stereo- 
typed Plates, Prepared expressly for this- Edition. 

One Volume, 8vo. Extra Cloth, - $S.OO. 



" Dr. Holland will always find a congenial audience in the homes of culture and 
refinement. He does not affect the play of the darker and fiercer passions, but de- 
lights in the sweet images that cluster around the domestic hearth. He cherishes a, 
strong fellow-feeling with the pure and tranquil life in the modest social circles of 
the Ameri an people, and has thus won his way to the companionship of many 
friendly hearts" N. Y. TRIBUNE. 

%* For sale by all booksellers, or sent post-paid upon receipt of price by 

CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, 

743 AND 745 BROADWAY, NEW YORK 



} r 








^ 



// 
^ 



